> 


MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY 


HEARINGS 

BEFORE  THE 

SPECIAL  COMMITTEE 

INVESTIGATING  THE  MUNITIONS  INDUSTEY 

UNITED  STATES  SENATE 

SEVENTY-THIRD  CONGRESS 

PURSUANT  TO 

S.  Res.  206 

A  RESOLUTION  TO  MAKE  CERTAIN  INVESTIGATIONS 

CONCERNING  THE  MANUFACTURE  AND  SALE 

OF  ARMS  AND  OTHER  WAR  MUNITIONS 


PART  11   ^--_/  </ 

DECEMBER  6,  7,  AND  10,  1934 


CHEMICAL  PREPARATIONS  FOLLOWING  THE  WAR 

AND 

INTERCHANGE  OF  MILITARY  INFORMATION 


Printed  for  the  use  of  the 
Special  Committee  Investigating  the  Munitions  Industry 


UNITED  STATES 
GOVERNMENT  PRINTING  OFFICE 
83876  WASHINGTON  :  1935 


MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY 


HEARINGS 


BEFORE  THE 


SPECIAL  COMMITTEE 
INVESTIGATING  THE  MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY 

UNITED  STATES  SENATE 

SEVENTY-THIED  CONGRESS 

PURSUANT  TO 

S.  Res.  206 

A  RESOLUTION  TO  MAKE  CERTAIN  INVESTIGATIONS 

CONCERNING  THE  MANUFACTURE  AND  SALE 

OF  ARMS  AND  OTHER  WAR  MUNITIONS 


PART  11 

DECEMBER  6,  7,  AND  10,  1934 


CHEMICAL  PREPARATIONS  FOLLOWING  THE  WAR 


AND 


INTERCHANGE  OF  MILITARY  INFORMATION 


Printed  for  the  use  of  the 
Special  Committee  Investigating  the  Munitions  Industry 


UNITED  STATES 
GOVERNMENT  PRINTING  OFFICE 
S3S76  WASHINGTON :  1935 


HARVARD  dOLLtgf  LIBRAKt 
RFCeiVED\THX0U6H  THf 

9UR{^U  FORykESEAftCH  ih 
KUNICIPALyfcbvERNMENT 


SPECIAL  COMMITTEE  INVESTIGATING  THE  MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY 

GERALD  P.  NYE,  North  Dakota,  Chairynan 
WALTER  P.  GEORGE,  Georgia  ARTHUR    H.    VANDEXBERG,    Michigan 

BENNETT  CHAMP  CLARK,  Missouri  W.  WARREN  BARBOUR,  New  Jersey 

HOMER  T.  BONE,  Washington 
JAMES  P.  POPE,  Idaho 

Stephen  Raushenbush,  Secretary 
Alger  Hiss,  Legal  Assistant 

II 


CONTENTS 


Testimony  of —  Page 

Beebe,  H.   F.,  manager  foreign  department,   Winchester  Repeating 

Arms  Co 2517,  2521,  2523,  2526,  2532 

Bradwav,  F.  W.,  assistant  general  manager,  smokeless-powder  depart- 
ment," E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co 2492,2502 

Casev,  K.  K.  V.,  director  of  sales,  smokeless-powder  department,  E.  I. 

difPont  de  Nemours  &  Co 2428,  2433, 

2449,  2457,  2466,  2475,  2483,  2485,  2489,  2492,  2505 
Davis,  C.  K.,  president  and  general  manager.  Remington  Arms  Co-_   2514- 

2516,  2533 
Du  Pont,  A.  Felix,  vice  president,  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &    Co__   2425, 

2477,  2484,  2486,  2488,  2502 
Du  Pont,  Irenee,  vice  chairman  of  board  of  directors,  E.  I.  du  Pont 

de  Nemours  &  Co 2448,  2457,  2464,  2469,  2474 

Du  Pont,  Lammot,  president  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co 2397, 

2400,  2407,  2412,  2415,  2482,  2485,  2487,  2491,  2493,  2511 
Du  Pont,  Pierre  S.,  chairman  of  board  of  directors,  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 

Nemours  &  Co 2404,  2413,  2418 

Handy,  E.  E.,  vice  president.  Remington  Arms  Co 2514 

Jonas,  Elmslie  E.,  sales  agent,  Winchester  Repeating  Arms  Co.,  and 

Western  Cartridge  Co_: 2521,  2523 

Monaghan,  F.  J.,  export  manager,  Remington  Arms  Co 2512,  2515, 

2517,  2525,  2528,  2532 

Reisinger,  W.  U.,  secretary  and  treasurer.  Remington  Arms  Co 2514 

Sparre,  Dr.  Fin,  director  development  department,  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 

Nemours  &  Co 2399,  2402,  2411 

Swint,  W.  R.,  director  foreign-relations  department,  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 

Nemours  &  Co 2395,2462 

Weston,  Charles  K.,  director  publicity  department,  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 

Nemours  &  Co 2400,  2413,  2416,  2420,  2431,  2462,  2465,  2468 

Background  of  chemical  warfare 2395 

Propaganda  for  protective  dye  legislation 2400 

Activities  of  American  dye  industry  in  opposing  attempt  to  control  chemi- 
cal-warfare business  in  1922 2419 

Sale  or  interchange  of  military  inventions  and  secret  processes 2425 

European  countries  aim  for  independence  in  powder  supply 2450 

Exchange  of  technical  information  by  munitions  companies 2461 

Question  of  control  of  chemical  industry  in  relation  to  disarmament 2466 

Methods  of  doing  business: 

Balkan  States 2477 

Poland 2489 

China 2496 

Argentina 2502,2549 

Mexico 25 11 

Guatemala 2520 

•    Nicaragua 2525 

Bahama  Islands 2526 

Dominican  Republic 2537 

Colombia 2543 

Brazil 2550 


INVESTIGATION  OF  MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY 


THURSDAY,    DECEMBER   6,    1934 

United  States  Senate, 

Special  Committee  to 
Investigate  the  Munitions  Industry, 

Washington,  D.  C. 
The  hearing  was  continued  in  the  Finance  Committee  room,  Senate 
Office  Building,  Senator  Bennett  Champ  Clark,  presiding. 

Present:  Senators  Vandenberg,  Barbour,  George,  Clark,  Pope. 
Present  also :  Stephen  Raushenbush,  secretary  to  the  committee. 

At  this  point  the  committee  concluded  that  part  of  the  testimony 
which  is  incorporated  in  Part  X  of  these  hearings,  "  Embargoes." 

afternoon  session 

(The  committee  reconvened  at  2  p.m.  pursuant  to  recess.) 

Senator  Clark.  The  committee  will  come  to  order.  The  Chair 
would  like  to  inquire  whether  any  of  the  companies  are  now  pre- 
pared to  furnish  any  of  the  exhibits  which  have  previously  been 
requested,  and  which  have  not  yet  been  furnished.  Mr.  Raushen- 
bush, let  me  suggest  that  you  come  up  here.  I  believe  everybody 
can  hear  you  better  if  you  come  up  here.  I  happen  to  know  that  the 
particular  place  where  you  are  seated  is  the  hardest  place  in  this 
room  from  which  to  be  heard. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Mr.  Chairman,  with  your  permission,  may  we 
have  as  witnesses  this  afternoon  the  officers  of  the  du  Pont  Co.  who 
are  particularly  well  acquainted  with  the  early  post  war  chemical 
history  of  the  company  and  the  various  foreign  connections  that 
were  involved  in  them.     Do  you  care  to  call  any  others,  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  would  like  to  have  Dr.  F.  Sparre. 

Senator  Clark.  You  were  previously  sworn,  were  you  not.  Doctor? 

Mr.  Sparre.  Yes ;  I  was  sworn  in  September, 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Mr.  Chairman,  I  would  also  like  to  have 
Mr.  W.  R.  Swint. 

Senator  Clark.  You  have  not  been  previously  sworn,  have  you? 

Mr.  Swint.  No. 

TESTIMONY  OF  F.  SPARRE   (RECALLED)   AND  W.  R.  SWINT 

background  of  chemical  warfare 

(Mr.  Swint  was  duly  sworn  by  the  chairman.) 
Mr.  Raushenbush.  In  the  absence  of  the  Chairman,  he  asked  me 
to  begin  an  inquiry  into  a  certain  phase  of  the  munitions  business 

2395 


2396  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

which  is,  frankly,  based  on  one  supposition,  that  the  committee  is 
not  only  interested  in  the  munitions  business,  but  is  interested  in  the 
cause  and  need  for  a  munitions  traffic  at  all,  and  the  next  question 
that  follows  that  immediately  is  the  very  simple  one  of  why  every 
nation  feels  obliged  to  arm,  and  the  answer  is  obvious,  because  every 
other  nation  is  arming  too. 

Then  the  further  question  occurs,  well,  how  did  this  get  started — 
how  did  that  situation  get  started,  and  because  it  has  seemed  to  us 
in  examining  some  of  the  files  of  the  companies  that  there  were  some 
slight  clues  or  indications  along  that  line,  we  wanted  to  get  a  little 
more  background  on  the  question  of  the  chemical  development  not 
only  of  your  companies  but  of  others,  because  certainly  the  chemical 
developments  have  a  large  place  in  the  next  Avar,  by  your  admission, 
I  am  sure,  and  by  everybody  else's. 

Let  me  add,  perhaps,  one  personal  statement  in  that,  that  it  is 
going  to  be  the  attempt  to  be  scientific  about  this.  You  gentlemen 
do  not,  perhaps,  realize  how  someone  coming  to  the  industry  newly 
feels  it  impossible  quickly  to  make  final  judgments.  If  you  Avill  per- 
mit an  illustration,  it  is  a  little  as  if  people  who  have  never  been  in 
the  jungle  have  suddently  captured  a  species  of  life  that  they  had 
never  seen  before,  and  they  were  observing  it.  Of  course  they  bring 
nothing  but  their  own  understanding  of  the  life  around  them  to 
observe  that  new  species.  It  lives  by  its  own  laws  and  it  functions 
well,  but  an  outsider  looking  at  it  cannot  say  when  it  kicks  with  its 
hind  legs  instead  of  with  its  front  legs;  he  cannot  say  that  there  is 
anything  ethical  or  unethical  about  that.  It  is  a  matter  of  scientific 
interest  to  find  out  just  how  the  thing  functions,  and  if  you  will  be- 
lieve in  the  first  instance  that  there  is  no  ethical  implication  here,  I 
will  appreciate  that.  We  had  here  at  the  earlier  hearings  an  illustra- 
tion of  some  of  our  gas  companies  that  took  some  convicts  in  one  of 
the  South  American  countries  and  tried  out  some  of  their  gas  on  them. 
That  met  with  some  ethical  comments  by  the  members  of  the  commit- 
tee. But  for  the  moment,  what  we  are  interested  in  is  just  to  see  the 
function  of  this  industry  not  only  in  connection  with  the  national 
defense  but  with  foreign  countries,  and  with  this  somewhat  lengthy 
introduction  I  would  like  to  have  a  rather  full  story  from  then  on  by 
you  who  are  conversant  with  the  early  postwar  developments  of  the 
company  about  that. 

I  frankly  am  undecided  in  my  own  mind  whether  or  not  to  con- 
tinue the  practice  we  have  followed  on  saying,  now,  is  this  true, 
and  showing  you  an  exhibit  on  it,  or  asking  for  a  full  story.  We 
do  know,  let  me  put  it  that  way.  that  during  the  war  you  did  go 
into  the  dve  business  in  a  rather  large  wav.  I  take  it  that  is  correct, 
isn't  it? 

Mr.  SwiNT.  Yes. 

Mr.  RAusHENBrsH.  It  happened  about  1917,  and  we  have  here  quite 
a  list  of  the  activities  regarding  dyes  of  the  du  Pont  publicity  bureau 
from  1917  to  1921,  which  shows  or  which  covers  a  great  number  of 
pages.  I  do  not  think  I  will  enter  it  as  an  exhibit,  but  practically 
every  day,  beginning  with  A]jril  12,  1917.  about  the  time  Ave  AA'ent  into 
the  Avar,  thei-c  is  a  story  of  the  dye  developments  of  the  company.  I 
do  not  think  the  time  or  place  or  the  interest  of  the  company  in  that 
plan  is  questioned.    So  I  won't  enter  that  as  an  exhibit. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2397 

Now,  the  investment  in  that  dye  industry,  we  may,  without  any 
implication,  say  was  made  possible  the  same  way  the  investment  in 
General  Motors,  which  we  discussed  at  the  earlier  hearing.  I  mean 
there  were  profits  from  dealing  with  the  Allies,  and  these  were  the 
means  of  seeking  the  investment. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  No,  sir ;  I  think  you  are  under  a  misappre- 
hension, Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  is  true  we  started  into  the  dye  busi- 
ness during  the  war  and,  in  fact,  before  the  United  States  went  into 
the  war,  I  believe.  In  the  early  days  we  did  not  require  any  very 
larsfe  investment,  because  the  important  thing  at  that  time  was  the 
study  of  the  processes  of  the  industry  which,  of  course,  meant  both 
the  men  and  laboratory  rather  than  plant.  The  construction  of  a 
plant  was  started  then,  but  it  was  very  small  as  compared  with 
today.  The  great  growth  in  the  investment  in  the  dye  business,  in 
bricks,  mortar,  and  machinery,  so  to  speak,  took  place  after  the  close 
of  the  war,  and  it  is  going  on  today. 

Mr.  Raushenhush.  I  do  not  see  any  great  importance  of  that 
point.  Now,  immediately  after  the  close  of  the  war  is  it  a  fair 
statement  to  say  that  both  you  and  the  English  and  the  French  dye 
companies  saw  that  they  had  a  struggle  for  life  against  the  German 
d3^e  industry,  and  started  to  put  up,  or  help  to  put  up  protective 
measures  against  imported  dyes? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  think  I  ought  to  speak  for  the 
English  or  French,  but  we,  in  this  country,  fully  realizing  that  we 
being  an  infant  industry,  must  have  protection  in  order  to  protect 
our  home  business  from  those  who  were  far  more  experienced  at 
that  time. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  At  that  time,  v\-e  find  a  letter  from  the  head 
of  your  publicity  department,  who  had  apparently  gone  to  London 
at  the  time.  The  letter  is  dated  December  10.  1920,  which  I  wish 
to  offer  for  the  appropriate  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  909  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  page  2559.)^ 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  He  tells  of  ''"  my  mission  " 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Who  wrote  the  letter  ? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  is  written  by  Mr.  Weston  to  Mr.  Meade,  one 
of  the  vice  presidents  of  your  company. 

He  states : 

My  mission  seems  to  he  going  fairly  well ;  I  have  met  a  number  of  our 
Amierican  newspaper  correspondents,  and  have,  I  think,  succeeded  in  selling 
them  our  idea.  One  cannot  tell,  of  course,  until  the  results  begin  to  appear  in 
American  newspapers. 

He  goes  on  to  say  that  he  is  watching  the  vote  in  the  House  of 
Commons. 

He  goes  on  to  say : 

I  believe  that  the  great  strong  point  to  be  brought  out  by  our  friends  in  the 
United  States  Senate  is,  that  with  .Japan.  France,  and  England  all  protecting 
their  dye  industries,  the  United  States  is  left  as  the  only  hope  of  the  Germans. 
They  will,  without  doubt,  concentrate  over  there  and  give  us  a  particularly 
hard  fight. 

Now,  I  do  not  think  that  there  is  any  question  that  the  French 
and  English  were,  naturally,  interested  in  protecting  their  new 
industries. 


1  "  Exhibit   No.   909  "   was  referred   to   further  in   Part   XII,    p.   2758. 


2398  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Senator  Clark.  That  is  the  first  mention  of  infant  industries  in 
tariff  debates  for  nearly  100  years. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  What  is  that  ? 

Senator  Clark.  That  is  the  first  mention  of  infant  industries  in 
connection  with  tariff  debates  for  nearly  100  years.  That  was  the 
original  theory  of  tariffs  and  has,  in  a  sense,  been  cast  into  the 
limbo  of  forgotten  things. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know  about  tariff  debates. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  AVould  Dr.  Sparre  or  Mr.  Swint  care  to  say 
whether  this  was  the  policy  followed  by  the  allied  countries,  that 
they  were  all  trying  to  protect  their  new  industries  from  the  pos- 
sibility of  a  large  German  influx  after  the  war  ? 

Dr.  Sparre.  Yes,  I  think  that  is  correct;  but  I  have  no  first-hand 
knowledge  except  the  newspaper  reports. 

Mr.  Eaushenbush.  Mr.  Weston  goes  on  on  the  second  page : 

I  shall  remain  here  next  week  to  see  this  bill  through  and  to  continue  my 
efforts  to  stoke  up  the  interest  of  those  whom  I  came  to  see. 

It  seems  to  indicate,  does  it  not,  that  he  was  very  interested  in 
not  only  watching  the  English  tariff  bill,  but  to  continue  to  "  stoke  " 
up  the  interest  of  those  whom  he  came  to  see.  It  would  give  the 
impression,  and  I  am  willing  to  be  corrected,  that  the  company  was 
sufficiently  interested  in  having  that  English  bill  go  through  to,  at 
least,  send  a  man  over  there.  He  spoke  of  his  mission,  and  to  get  in 
touch  with  the  newspaper  men  and  to  stoke  up  interest  in  the  matter. 
It  goes  on : 

The  correspondents  in  Paris  report  to  the  offices  here  so  it  is  apparent 
that  if  the  men  in  London  get  the  right  angle  it  will  be  wonderfully  helpful. 

In  Paris  I  shall  devote  my  energy  very  largely  to  bringing  the  correspondents 
in  contact  more  closely  with  the  American  sources  of  news,  at  the  same  time 
trying  to  give  them  the  proper  angle  so  that  they  will  appreciate  the  importance 
of  the  news. 

Is  there  any  comment  on  that  particularly  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  have  no  comment. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Now,  at  this  point  we  are  not  particularly  in- 
terested in  the  way  the  tariff  bill  in  this  country  was  to  operate, 
although  it  does  come  into  your  correspondence.  What  we  are 
interested  in  at  the  moment  is  the  thinking  that  underlies  your 
interests,  but  it  seems  to  me,  as  we  examine  your  files  that  that 
interest  is  fairly  expressed,  and  here  is  a  cable  from  Mr.  Poucher, 
dated  December  3, 1920,  which  I  think  is,  if  you  will  let  me  say  so,  an 
intelligent  cable,  an  understanding  cable.  Would  you  identify  Mr. 
Poucher  for  us? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont,  He  was  employed  by  the  du  Pont  Co.  He 
was  in  charge  of  the  sales  of  dyestuffs. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  In  this  country,  and  traveled  abroad  for  you, 
did  he? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  This  cable,  then,  in  1920,  follows  the  beginning 
of  the  interest  in  protecting  the  dye  industry  here.  It  gives  the 
reason  for  the  thing.  That,  I  think,  is  very  interesting.  He  says 
that  he  understands — 

Signor  Tittoni  has  raised  League  of  Nations  interest  in  national  monopo- 
lies and  their  danger  to  world  peace.  Urge  attention  of  League  be  drawn 
to    danger   of   resumption    of   German    organic   chemical    and    dye   monopoly. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2399 

This  is  by  far  the  most  menacing  and  deserves  immediate  attention  of  League, 
who  might  welcome  American  support  on  a  chemical  disarmament  measure. 
You  cannot  destroy  organic  chemical  factories  having  peace  functions,  but 
must  insure  world  redistribution  of  organic  chemical  producing  capacity  by 
support  of  national  protective  legislation.  This  is  a  critical  measure,  on 
which  all  disarmament  schemes  must  stand  or  fall. 

Now,  at  this  point,  you  see,  Mr.  du  Pont,  the  committee  becomes 
interested  in  this  chemical  thing  we  want  to  take  up  this  afternoon. 
It  goes  on  to  offer  the  proposition : 

Disarmament  is  a  farce  while  Germany  retains  organic  chemical  monopolies. 

Now,  that  statement  is  the  one  that  struck  me : 

Disarmament  is  a  farce  while  Germany  retains  organic  chemical  monopolies. 
You  can  get  full  details  in  disarmament  chapter  of  Major  LeFebures'  book 
now  held  by  Whetmore — 

And  so  forth. 

Now,  there  is  a  reference  to  this  Major  LeFebure,  and  we  find  he 
left  with  your  company  a  memorandum  dated  February  1,  1921, 
although  it  seems  to  be  a  little  redundant.  Because  of  the  im- 
portance of  the  whole  chemical  warfare  equipment  industry,  I  would 
like  to  read  it  and,  if  necessary,  get  your  comments  on  it.  His  point 
is  that  everything  possible  should  be  done  to  destroy  the  German 
chemical  monopoly.     He  is  a  British  officer,  isn't  he? 

Dr.  Spakre.  Yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  offer  this  cablegram  for  the  appropriate 
number. 

(The  cablegram  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  910  "  and 
is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2559.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Now,  we  had  a  rather  interesting  illustration  of 
the  head  of  your  publicity  bureau  being  in  London  watching,  stok- 
ing up  the  interest  in  the  tariff  over  there  in  the  British  House  of 
Commons,  and  now  we  have  this  British  major  making  this  comment 
that  everything  possible  should  be  done  in  America.  I  offer  this 
for  the  appropriate  exhibit  number. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  911  " 
and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2560.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  He  refers  to  the  dyestuffs  OA^er  there,  and  he 
goes  on  to  prove  the  importance  of  that  arsenal  in  time  of  war.  He 
speaks  of  clause  168  of  the  treaty,  which — 

demands  limitation  of  munitions  and  war-material  production  to  factories  or 
works  approved  by  the  Allied  and  Associated  Powers. 

He  says  it  refers  to  any  war  materials  whatever,  and,  roughly, 
makes  the  argument  that  that  really  should  include  the  big  I.  G. 
plants.    He  concludes  by  mentioning  specifically : 

In  addition  to  certain  specific  poison-gas  plants  a  large  proportion  of  the 
Haber  process  capacity  should  logically  be  dealt  with  under  this  article  of  the 
treaty. 

Now,  that  Haber  process  for  manufacture  is  one  of  the  most  suc- 
cessful processes  in  the  world? 

Dr.  Sparre.  For  ammonia. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  For  ammonia? 

Dr.  Sparre.  Yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  has  been  bought  by  America  and  other 
countries  ? 


2400  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Dr.  Sparre.  I  do  not  believe  it  has  been  bought  by  the  United 
States. 

Mr.  RAUSHE^BUSH.  Never  in  the  United  States? 

Dr.  Sparre.  No  ;  but  some  other  countries  have. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Some  other  countries  have? 

Dr.  Sparre.  Yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Then  he  goes  on  to  mention  the  number  of  tons 
of  poison  gas  produced  in  those  plants,  and  makes  quite  a  long  case 
about  the  need  for  denying  Germany  the  right  to  have  any  gas- 
producing  capacity  at  all. 

Then  he  goes  on  on  page  3 : 

It  may  be  that  by  taking  certain  measures  in  peace  regarding  these  potential 
arsenals,  production  of  poison  gases  in  war  would  be  prevented,  because  war 
itself  would  be  prevented,  and  the  need  to  produce  would  not  arise. 

I  think  I  have  already  entered  that  as  "  Exhibit  No.  911." 

Then  we  find  that  your  company  was  conducting  an  active  cam- 
paign over  here  for  the  tariff,  and  in  "  Exhibit  No.  912  "  taken  from 
the  1921  file  on  "  Our  present  and  proposed  activities  ",  showing  the 
publicity  that  Shipp  &  Co.,  Bronson  Batchelor,  Inc.,  and  all  of  the 
articles  written,  and  speakers'  publicity.  It  says  the  company  had 
made  arrangements,  and  I  suppose  he  is  speaking  for  the  company, 
and  correct  me  if  I  am  wrong,  and  that  it  has  many  contacts  to  get 
them  to  send  resolutions  and  personal  letters  to  their  Senators,  news- 
papers, and  so  forth. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  have  no  criticism  to  make  of  your  state- 
ment, Mr.  Raushenbush,  but  I  think  I  would  like  to  study  the  letter 
a  little  before  I  could  say  I  could  confirm  it  all. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  question  is  simplj^^  whether  or  not  Mr. 
Hale  was  speaking  as  an  employee  of  the  company.  Could  you  turn 
that  letter  over  to  somebody  ?  Perhaps  Mr.  Weston  is  here,  or  some- 
body conversant  with  that,  and  that  you  would  like  to  have  any 
negative  answer  registered  at  the  proper  place  in  the  record.  If 
Mr.  Weston  wants  to  state  that,  we  can  have  the  answer  inserted  at 
this  point  or  later  on. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  You  want  Mr.  Weston  to  testify  directly 
to  this?    He  was  the  gentleman  who  was  abroad. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  If  yoii  think  it  is  important  enough. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know  whether  it  is  important  or 
not. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  May  we  have  Mr.  Weston  sworn,  please,  Mr. 
Chairman  ? 

TESTIMONY  OF  CHARLES  K.  WESTON 

PROPAGANDA  FOR  PROTECTIVE  DYE  LEGISLATION 

(The  witness  was  duly  sworn  by  the  chairman.) 

Mr.  Weston.  This  is  a  report  of  the  activities,  not  of  the  du  Pont 
Co.  particularly  but  of  the  entire  chemical — not  the  entire,  but  a 
very  large  part  of  the  chemical  industry  of  the  United  States  at 
that  time.  They  were  formed  into  the  Dyes  Institute,  I  think  was 
the  name,  and  I  was  a  member  of  that  institute,  the  publicity  and 
legislative  committee,  and  this  is  a  report  of  the  activities  of  the 
committee  representing  the  industry. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2401 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  In  1920  the  company  contributed  $21,773.49  and 
in  1921  $10,100  to  the  Chemical  Institute."^ 

Mr.  Weston.  I  do  not  know. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  is  ''  Exhibit  No.  913." 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Not  to  the  chemical  industry- 
Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  am  sorry,  to  the  American  Dyes  Institute. 

Mr.  Weston.  Yes ;  later  merged  into  the  Synthetic  Organic  Chemi- 
cal Manufacturers'  Associations  of  the  United  States. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  You  contributed  to  an  organization  which,  I 
take  it,  paid  Dr.  Hale  his  expenses  and  fees  in  these  matters.  I  do 
not  think  it  is  an  important  point  whether  or  not  he  was  paid  directly 
by  the  company.  The  thing  I  was  interested  in  was  whether  or  not 
this  was  not  a  fair  statement  about  this  campaign  for  protecting  the 
dye  industry  that  was  carried  on.  Dr.  Hale  was  making  speeches 
that  fairly  represented  things  that  were  said,  and  we  make  certain 
allowances  for  the  post-war  hysteria  at  that  time,  in  1921,  and  we 
find  Dr.  Hale  making  a  speech  that  the  publicity  department  quoted, 
dated  December  16,  1921,  called  '•  The  War  After  the  War."  That 
had  some  interesting  conmients  to  make  on  the  peace  treaty  from 
the  angle  of  the  chemical  industry. 

Mr.  Weston.  May  I  just  interject  there?  I  think  Dr.  Hale  was 
the  vice  president  of  the  Dow  Chemical  Co.,  and  not  merely  an 
employee  who  was  speaking. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Most  of  the  gentlemen,  as  you  list  them  here 
as  paying  their  fees  and  expenses,  seem  to  be  men  of  a  great  deal  of 
standing,  Mr.  Weston,  not  only  Dr.  Hale  but  Dr.  Parsons  and  others. 

Mr.  Weston.  Dr.  Herty  and  others. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Dr.  Herty  is  not  on  that  particular  list.  That 
woidd  not  be  the  point.  You  can  comment  on  it,  Mr.  du  Pont,  if 
you  care  to,  wdiether  that  was  not  the  sort  of  atmosphere  in  which 
the  chemical  protection  was  put  over,  speeches  like  this  being  made 
imder  your  own  auspices  and  those  of  the  American  Dyes  Institute. 
I  am  getting  at  this  simply  to  get  at  the  point  of  the  matter,  because 
it  seems  to  me  that  w-as  the  point  that  carried  at  that  time. 

I  now  offer  the  exhibits  just  referred  to  as  "  Exhibits  Nos.  912, 
913,  and  914." 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  as  "  Our  Present  and  Proposed 
Activities"  was  marked  '"Exhibit  No.  912"  and  is  included  in  the 
appendix  on  p.  2562.) 

(The  Report  of  the  Activities  of  the  Chemical  Industry  referred  to 
was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  913  "  and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on 
p.  2563.) 

(The  address  by  Dr.  William  J.  Hale  entitled  "  The  War  After 
the  War  "  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  914  "  and  is  included  in  the 
api^endix  on  p.  2564.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Dr.  Hale  comments: 

The  peace  treaty  was  drawn  up  entirely  tri)ni  tlie  standpoint  ol  modern 
medievalism,  or  that  period  just  preceding  the  advent  of  cliemistry  in  the 
world  of  industry,  and  the  result  was  appalling.  Thus  the  "  Bungle  of 
Versailles"  was  given  to  man  and  passed  forthwith  into  obsolete  history.  Its 
four  points,  from  the  standpoint  of  the  future,  may  be  characterized  as  follows: 

1.  National  hatreds  engendered  by  silly  apportionments  of  trivial  territory. 

2.  Germany  tinancially  crippled  but  stirred  to  industrial  activities,  such  as 
will  soon  reinstate  her  in  the  iwsition  of  world  leader. 


2402  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

3.  Germany  deprived  of  those  useless  adjuncts  of  a  nation's  pride — lier  battle- 
ships— and  thus  saved  from  wasting  her  wealth  on  monstrosities  of  the  future. 

4.  As  a  gift  from  the  gods,  there  was  left  to  Germany  all  of  the  implements 
for  future  wars,  and  she  was  asked  to  develop  them  to  her  best  ability. 

Then  he  tells  the  story  about  the  Badische-Anilin  und  Soda-Fabrik 
at  Ludwigshafen,  and  there  was  the  manufacture  of  indigo,  and 
points  out  that — 

Were  Germany  to  be  drawn  into  war,  this  entire  plant  may  be  converted  into 
a  mustard-gas  plant  in  less  than  an  hour's  time. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  that  is  a  little  exaggerated. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  is  the  vice  president  of  the  Dow  Chemical 
Co. 

Mr.  Weston.  I  suggested  that  I  think  he  is. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  He  may  be  taking  a  fee  for  going  around  mak- 
ing these  speeches,  but  supposedly  he  is  saying  what  is  accurate. 
He  speaks  of  the  indigo  plant  of  the  Badische-Anilin  which  can  be 
converted  into  a  mustard  gas  plant  in  an  hour's  time.  You  know  that 
outfit,  do  you  not.  Dr.  Sparre  ? 

Dr.  Spakre.  It,  Badische  Co.,  is  part  of  the  I.  G.  now. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  is  part  of  the  I.  G.  now  ( 

Dr.  Sparee.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  We  do  not  want  to  go  too  far  afield  in  this, 
but  the  whole  point  I  am  making  is  that  this  was  a  tariff  speech 
at  the  time,  and  he  went  on  to  state  that  the  international  bankers 
who  had  trade  in  Europe  would  take  an  awful  lacing  in  this  regard, 
and  that  American  industry  must  be  prepared  to  m'eet  tliis  after  the 
war.  In  other  words,  there  should  be  a  tariff  to  protect  the  chem- 
ical industry. 

This  cable  from  Mr.  Poucher,  in  which  he  says  that  disarmament 
is  a  farce  as  long  as  Germany  maintains  her  chemical  monopoly, 
and  the  statement  by  Lefebure,  and  the  speech  by  Mr.  Hale  are  only 
typical  things  which  were  in  the  files,  showing,  it  seems  to  us,  that 
the  whole  question  of  control  of  the  chemical  industry  was  really  a 
very  important  one  to  the  whole  question  of  disarmament. 

Would  you  not  accept  that  at  this  moment? 

Dr.  Sparre.  If  you  ask  me,  I  rather  have  a  different  opinion. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  All  right,  sir. 

Mr.  Sparre.  I  do  not  tliink  so. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  You  think  these  men  were  wrong  ? 

Dr.  Sparre.  If  course,  different  men  have  different  opinions.  So 
far  as  I  am  concerned,  I  was  engaged  in  the  munitions  end  up  to 
1916,  and  that  year  I  was  asked  to  discontinue  my  work  in  con- 
nection with  munitions  and  undertake  a  study  of  new  industries, 
which  the  du  Pont  Co.  would  take  up  after  the  close  of  the  war, 
because  of  at  least  some  people's  opinion  being,  and  being  also  my 
own,  that  that  would  probably  be  the  last  war  in  our  generation,  at 
least  the  last  large  war.  We  had  a  large  organization  of  very 
competent  men,  technical  men  and  financial  men,  and  such  an  organ- 
ization is  a  very  valuable  asset.  And  we  did  not  think  it  was  proper 
business  or  fair  to  the  men  to  discharge  them  immediately  peace 
was  declared. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Pardon  me,  but  are  you  not  getting  into  what 
may  seem  to  be  a  changing  over  to  another  industry  ?     I  was  simply 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2403 

trying  to  get  at  the  fact  that  these  people  were  using  this  argu- 
ment to  put  through  the  tariff:  that  the  chemical  industry  had  a 
relation  to  war  and  disarmament,  and  I  asked  for  an  agreement  or 
disagreement  on  that  fact. 

Dr.  Sparre.  It  is  true  that  there  is  a  relationship,  but  I  think  it 
was  very  much  exaggerated  in  those  days.  Certainly  the  fact  is 
that  the  du  Pont  Co.,  being  now  engaged  very  widely  in  the  chemical 
industry,  probably  only  1  or  2  percent  of  our  business  is  connected 
with  munitions.     Over  98  percent  of  our  business  is  commercial. 

Senator  Clark.  Was  not  that  the  theory  on  which  we  took  over 
the  Germans'  chemical  patents,  Doctor? 

Dr.  Sparre.  The  chemical  patents  were,  of  course,  taken  over  by 
the  United  States  Government. 

Senator  Clark.  Is  not  that  the  correct  theory? 

Dr.  Sparre.  To  some  extent,  certainl}^,  because  during  time  of  war 
then  everything  becomes  of  military  value. 

Senator  Ci^ark.  We  did  take  them  and  keep  them  on  that  theory, 
did  we  not? 

Dr.  Sparre.  Yes,  but,  when  peace  is  declared  these  patents  have 
no  longer  military  value. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Either  the  people  who  sold  this  tariff  to  the 
country,  if  one  may  use  that  phrase,  in  those  days — and  that  is,  as  I 
say,  of  course,  only  typical  of  a  great  many  other  instances — were 
completely  wrong,  or  they  were  offering  a  proposition  which  had 
some  sense  to  it ;  that  is,  this  proposition  that  as  long  as  the  Badische- 
Anilin  has  a  plant  that  can  be  converted  into  a  mustard-gas  plant, 
if  true  is  certainly  interesting,  on  the  whole  question  of  chemical 
{irmament,  and  certainly  everybody  applied  it  in  those  days. 

"  Disarmament  is  a  farce  while  Germany  retains  organic  chem- 
ical monopolies  ",  signed  by  your  man  Poucher,  which  is  a  proposi- 
tion which  we  at  this  moment  are  now  willing  to  accept;  that  the 
chemical  questions  were  right  in  the  middle  of  the  disarmament 
problem,  and  I  wonder  whether  most  of  you  now  here  would  not 
really  accept  that  even  today,  after  some  10  or  15  years  beyond  the 
particular  instances  that  led  to  this  particular  action  on  the  tariff. 

We  still  find  that  in  a  chemical  code  you  put  clauses  referring  to 
the  importance  of  that  industry  in  the  preparedness  situation,  for 
example,  which  was  undertaken  last  year, 

Mr,  Lammot  du  Pont,  Mr.  Raushenbush,  I  do  not  think  there  is 
any  question  in  anybody's  mind  that  the  chemical  industry  is  very 
important  from  the  military  standpoint,  but  the  degree  of  import- 
ance is  different  in  every  individual's  mind. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  is  fair  enough.  There  are  times,  let  us 
say,  when  it  is  more  important,  to  state  it  one  way,  perhaps,  than 
another. 

Mr.  Sparre.  I  said,  Mr.  Raushenbush,  that  the  opinions  here  im- 
mediately after  the  war,  I  thinl?:,  were  exaggerated,  in  the  light  of 
present  knowledge.  I  said  that  the  chemical  industry  is  immensely 
important,  during  time  of  war,  and  I  said  during  peace  times  that 
it  is  also  so,  but  it  is  commercial  products. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  do  not  think  there  is  any  argument  on  that, 
Dr.  Sparre.  The  big  chemical  companies,  not  only  the  German, 
but  ours  and  the  French  and  English,  are  prominent  at  peace-time 
conferences,  and  have  to  be,  so  they  claim. 


2404  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Sparre.  That  is  right. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  only  point  I  Avas  raising  is  that  in  war 
time  or  the  period  before  war,  which  Major  Casey  told  us  might  be 
10  years  the  other  day,  they  had  a  peculiar  importance,  and  the  only 
thing  I  was  going  to  draw  out  of  that — and  again  subject  to  cor- 
rection on  this — I  was  going  to  accept  the  proposition  that  these 
people,  Mr.  Poucher  and  the  others,  expressed  in  those  days  that  dis- 
armament would  be  a  farce  without  such  control,  and  he  said  with- 
out the  German  chemical  monopoly  controlled,  and  I  want  to  take 
it  one  step  further  and  say  that  disarmament  would  be  a  farce  with- 
out control  of  the  chemical  industry.  That  is  what  I  was  trying 
to  get  at. 

If  these  people  are  wrong,  then  perhaps  this  conclusion  is  wrong. 

Dr.  Sparre.  I  think  it  is  very  much  exaggerated. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  You  do? 

Dr.  Sparre.  Because  the  chemical  industry  is  a  commercial  indus- 
try, with  a  negligible  part  of  its  sales  for  munitions  purposes  during 
times  of  peace,  but  during  times  of  war  the  sales  for  munitions  pur- 
poses become  a  much  larger  percentage,  but  nevertheless,  the  com- 
mercial requirement  is  far  larger. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  comment  which  should  be  made  on  that,  T 
think.  Dr.  Sparre,  is  this :  That  war-time  preparedness  naturally  is 
always  taking  place  in  peace  times,  and  if  we  look  across  the  border  of 
Germany,  or  France  looks  across  the  line  and  says,  "All  these  big 
chemical  plants  can  within  a  few  days  be  producing  poison  gas  ",  it 
has  an  effect  on  what  France  does. 

That  is  what  I  was  trying  to  say.  What  happens  after  the  war 
starts  is  less  important  than  the  feeling  about  it.  I  was  making  a 
very  simple  point  and  not  trying  to  make  anything  very  complicated 
out  of  it;  that  is,  that  proposition  that  your  people  referred  to,  that 
disarmament  after  the  war  seemed  to  be  a  farce  as  long  as  Germany 
kept  her  chemical  monopoly,  and  I  wanted  to  take  it  one  step  further, 
and  see  whether  chemical  companies  were  in  the  middle  of  the  dis- 
armament question  toda3\  and  whether  it  might  follow  that  unless 
there  was  some  international  control  of  chemical  companies,  disarma- 
ment might  still  be  a  farce. 

I  threw  that  open  as  a  tentative  conclusion  from  what  I  had  gotten 
out  of  this.    I  think  possibly  we  will  come  back  to  it  later. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Might  I  say  a  word  on  this  situation  ? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  It  is  just  another  man's  point  of  view  on  tht 
whole  subject. 

As  I  recollect  the  situation  before  the  war,  Germany  was  the 
largest  producer  of  what  we  call  organic  chemicals  or  dyes.  There 
is  no  way  of  distinguishing  between  an  organic  chemical,  a  dye,  and 
an  ordinary  chemical.  There  is  no  sharp  difference.  Formerly 
organic  chemicals  were  those  which  grew  naturally,  either  from  vege- 
tables or  through  other  natural  processes,  but  later  on  those  chemicals 
were  produced  artificially  from  all  sorts  of  inorganic  substances,  and 
dyes  were  a  part  of  that  group,  a  small  part,  probably. 

The  whole  thing  is  interwoven.  Take  the  manufacture  of  indigo. 
That  may  result  in  production  of  a  large  quantity  of  byproduct. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2405 

To  get  rid  of  that  it  is  used  as  a  raw  material  for  manufacture  that 
some  other  industry  might  be  engaged  in,  so  that  the  whole  chemical 
industry  is  one  of  making  major  products,  and  taking  the  byproducts 
and  converting  them  again  into  other  products  and  byproducts,  still 
going  further,  so  that  there  is  a  continual  change  and  interrelation 
of  all  these  products. 

Take  the  question  of  munitions :  It  today  happens  that  the  princi- 
pal munitions  are  classified  among  the  chemical  industry,  and  also 
among  the  organic  chemicals,  as  I  know  them,  although  they  were 
never  made  naturally  or  never  occurred  naturallj^ 

Let  us  take  a  small  instance :  We  might  take  nitrotoluene,  which 
is  used  for  munitions  and  commercial  explosives.  The  knowledge 
of  making  nitrotoluene,  which  was  all  we  had  when  the  war  began, 
put  the  Government  in  the  position  of  being  able  to  make  trinitro- 
toluene, TNT.  It  is  the  knowledge  of  the  one  which  gives  you  the 
knowledge  of  the  other.  Although  the  processes  for  making  nitro- 
toluene are  not  suitable  for  trinitrotoluene,  they  are  closely  allied. 
The  same  thing  occurs  all  through  the  industry;  that  is,  the  knowl- 
edge of  one  thing  is  useful  in  connection  with  the  knowledge  of  how  to 
make  some  other  product. 

In  the  war  materials,  there  are  continuously  new  inventions  being 
made,  which  are  used  in  small  quantities  only,  but  are  very  important. 
Such  knowledge  cannot  be  had  unless  a  body  of  experienced  men  is 
engaged  in  research,  and  finding  out  how  to  get  things,  learning  what 
others  are  doing,  and  reproducing  those  inventions  either  by  obtain- 
ing direct  knowledge  or  by  additional  research. 

So  that  it  is  very  important  that  every  nation  shall  have  the 
knowledge  connected  with  these  products.  If  the  whole  thing  was 
left  in  German  hands,  or  in  the  hands  of  any  country,  they  would 
have  not  only  the  know-how,  the  men  to  do  it,  and  the  apparatus 
to  do  it,  but  they  would  have  a  tremendous  volume  of  production  on 
which  to  build  an  explosive  business,  if  it  were  required. 

The  important  point,  as  I  see  it,  at  the  end  of  the  war,  was  to 
reduce  the  important  volume  of  German  business  and  transfer  it 
to  British  or  French  or  other  control,  so  that  they  would  have  the 
volume  basis,  the  experience  basis,  and  the  man-power  basis  that 
Germany  had  practically  monopolized.  I  wdsh  you  would  correct 
me.  Dr.  Sparre,  because  I  may  go  wrong  on  some  facts,  and  if  I  do, 
you  may  check  me  up  right  away — when  Germany  started  in  the 
chemical  industry,  one  of  the  first  things  they  made  was  turkey-red 
■dye  and  indigo  dye. 

Is  that  right.  Dr.  Sparre? 

Dr.  Sparre.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  The  German  plan  was  to  sell  those  dyes  in 
great  volume.  They  put  natural  turkey-red  and  natural  indigo  com- 
pletely out  of  business,  and  that  whole  enormous  trade  which  for- 
merly belonged  to  China,  was  transferred  to  Germany,  That  en- 
abled Germany  to  have  a  great  background  of  industry  on  which 
they  could  build  the  more  intricate  dyes,  those  more  difficult  to  make, 
and  those  used  in  smaller  volume.  They  would  sell  their  indigo 
and  turkey-red  at  prices  with  which  nobody  could  compete,  and  that 
enabled  them  to  make  these  other  dyes,  also  beyond  the  competition 
of  other  people,  because  they  had  no  volume  of  production,  of  course. 


2406  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Eaushenbush.  I  think  all  this  is  accepted,  Mr.  du  Pont. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  it  is. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  We  accepted  that  as  the  proposition  that  Ger- 
many had  a  great  advantage  in  the  chemical  industry. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  It  became  necessary  to  distribute  that  among 
the  nations,  if  Germany  was  not  to  retain  this  immense  monopoly^ 
this  great  chemical  industry. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  You  might  also  couple  that  with  the  proposi- 
tion, the  very  sam^e  thought  Mr.  Poucher  had,  that  unless  that  was 
done,  that  the  matter  of  disarming  was  a  farce.  It  would  go  along 
that  line,  would  it  not?  That  is,  if  Germany  had  the  whole  monopoly 
of  dyes  and  patents  that  it  had  before  the  war,  on  low-grade  products 
and  so  forth,  that  other  countries  could  not  go  in  for  disarmament. 
Is  not  that  right? 

Mr,  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  is  right. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  In  1921  we  have  some  instances  of  the  way  that 
this  campaign  was  conducted — and  I  do  not  want  to  dwell  on  them 
too  much — being  a  letter  dated  March  25,  1921,  from  your  publicity 
manager  to  an  employee  of  yours  in  Washington  by  the  name  of 
McNeely,  which  I  will  offer  for  appropriate  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  915  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2569.)^ 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  want  to  point  out  what  is  said  in  the  third 
paragraph  of  that  letter,  which  reads  as  follows  (reading)  : 

It  is,  of  course,  a  fact  and  is  quite  apparent  that  American  dye  manufacturers 
want  to  protect  and  develop  their  industry  as  a  business  proposition,  but  we 
want  more  than  the  ordinary  tariff  for  the  reason  that  this  is  an  intricate 
industry  and  cannot  be  developed  except  under  unusual  conditions.  It  really 
requires  the  absolute  embargo  of  competitive  products  so  that  we  can  secure 
an  income  over  the  sale  of  these  which  will  be  sufficient  to  pay  for  the  develop- 
ment of  the  products  which  we  have  not  yet  learned  to  make. 

I  think  with  the  present  unsettled  condition  of  world  affairs,  and  with 
Germany's  attitude  toward  the  peace  treaty  argimrents  based  on  the  question 
of  disarmament  are  very  much  stronger  than  any  others. 

We  cite  your  publicity  manager  because  supposedly  he  was  in 
charge  of  putting  the  campaign  out  before  the  country,  and  the 
argument  was  being  made  on  the  question  of  disarmament.  I  want 
to  go  back  to  that  a  little  later. 

We  will  enter  that  as  an  exhibit. 

Then  a  book  was  apparently  prepared  by  the  American  Dyes 
Institute,  in  the  same  year,  and  put  out  again,  making  the  same 
case,  and  being  sent  to  all  the  people,  Senators,  Congressmen,  and 
so  forth. 

It  makes  a  stronger  case  for  the  dyes,  and  says  that  with  an  efficient  dye- 
making  industry,  no  nation  need  fear  disarmament. 

I  will  repeat  that : 

With  an  efficient  dye-making  industry,  no  nation  need  fear  disarmament,  but 
without  such  an  industry  the  disarmed  nation  would  be  at  the  mercy  of  any 
other  dye-making  nation  in  the  world. 

Again  he  makes  the  same  point  I  was  trying  to  make  a  minute 
ago,  and  ran  into  a  little  difficulty  on,  namely,  that  no  nation  need 
fear  disarmament,  if  it  has  an  efficient  dye-making  industry,  but 

^  "  Exliibit  No.  915"  was  refprrecl  to  furtlipr  in  Fart  XII,  p.  2704. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2407 

without  such  an  industry  the  disarmed  nation  would  be  at  the  mercy 
of  any  other  dye-making  nation  in  the  world. 

I  confess  I  cannot  quite  understand  what  he  means  by  it,  but  he 
goes  on,  in  the  next  paragraph,  to  state  (reading)  : 

It  points  out  how  quickly  a  nation  with  an  adequate  dye  industry  can  expand 
it  to  make  the  gases  with  which  Germany  almost  won  the  war  and  which 
must  figure  so  prom'iuently  in  all  future  conflicts. 

Again  I  am  not  sure  I  understand  what  he  means.  I  simply 
want  to  make  the  point  that  here  the  whole  matter  appeared  to  me 
to  be  somewhat  under  the  guise  of  war  defense — using  "  guise  " 
without  any  reflection — somewhat  under  the  theory  of  war  defense, 
and  was  being  developed  in  that  way  and  was  being  put  before 
the  public. 

(The  document  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  916  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2569.) 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  The  proposition  is  exactly  the  same  as  it  is 
in  the  matter  of  food.  A  nation  is  at  a  great  disadvantage  if  it  has 
to  depend  on  others  for  its  food,  because  food  is  the  greatest  am- 
munition, without  which  no  one  could  exist  at  all.  It  is  the  same 
proposition, 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Does  not  your  analogy  break  down  if  a  nation 
can  borrow  food  ? 

Mr  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  do  not  think  so. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  You  are  talking  about  the  chemical  industry 
being  like  food,  and  you  were  talking  here  about  putting  in  an 
embargo,  or  putting  in  a  very  high  tariff  with  high  foreign  duties. 
Using  your  illustration,  it  would  be  food.  I  was  just  pointing  out 
that  it  was  not  very  analogous,  when  you  look  at  it. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  am  not  so  sure  I  follow^  you  on  that,  but 
if  there  is  an  embargo  on  the  exportation  of  food  to  any  nation 
in  the  event  of  war,  it  is  without  food  and  goes  down  very  quickly. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  There  was  an  embargo  on  dyes  into  this 
country. 

Now,  you  kindly  furnished  us  with  several  tables  showing  your 
publicity  expenses  and  your  contribution  to  the  American  Dyes 
Institute,  and  various  other  manufacturing  organizations,  T.  R. 
Shipp  Services,  American  Chemical  Society,  Chemical  Alliance, 
and  so  forth,  during  those  years.  I  have  not  added  them  up, 
however. 

Then,  in  addition,  there  are  contributions  to  the  Chemical  Foun- 
dation, of  very  considerable  sums.     Those  were  for  patent  royalties? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  The  Chemical  Foundation  w^as  a  founda- 
tion organized  for  the  purpose  of  taking  over  German  patents. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  And  these  contributions  of  yours  were  in  pay- 
ment for  those  patents  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  think  they  were  contributions, 
were  they? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Those  payments. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  they  were  payments  for  the  stock. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  was  a  stock  arrangement?  Did  the  Chem- 
ical Foundation  conduct  some  of  the  propaganda,  if  j^ou  will,  for 
some  of  these  tariffs  and  embargoes  at  that  time  ? 

83876 — 35— PT  11 2 


2408  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  did  not  get  the  question. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Read  the  question,  Mr.  Reporter. 

(The  pending  question,  as  above  recorded,  was  read  by  the  re- 
porter.) 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  cannot  answer  that. 

Mr.  Weston.  Yes;  very  decidedly. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  They  did  take  part? 

Mr.  Weston.  Yes,  sir ;  they  were  very  active  in  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  stock  purchasers  of  the  Chemical  Foun- 
dation would  pay  for  some  of  that  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Some  of  our  payments  to  the  Chemical 
Foundation  were  for  stock  in  the  corporation,  and  some  were  by 
way  of  royalties  for  use  of  the  patents  owned  by  the  Chemical 
Foundation. 

(The  table  showing  du  Pont  publicity  expenses  was  marked  "  Ex- 
hibit No.  917  ''  and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2570.) 

(The  list  of  du  Pont  contributions  to  various  chemical  organiza- 
tions was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  918  '"'  and  is  included  in  the  appen- 
dix on  p.  2571.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  All  I  was  driving  at  was  this — and  again  it 
is  not  the  most  important  point — that  these  contributions  listed 
here  in  "  Exhibit  No.  918  ",  along  with  all  the  others,  in  some  way 
brought  about  a  favorable  reaction  on  the  tariff  legislation  at  that 
time. 

Mr.  Lammot  .du  Pont.  Of  course,  I  cannot  say  what  the  actual 
dollars  which  we  paid  into  the  Chemical  Foundation  were  used  for. 
Presumably  they  put  it  in  their  bank  account  and  then  used  the 
money  for  their  expenditures,  whatever  they  were. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  was  something  more  than  a  foundation  sim- 
ply to  hold  the  patents,  was  it  not?  It  was  actively  engaged  in 
doing  what  it  thought  necessary  to  defend  the  chemical  industry  at 
the  time? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  understand  it  was  formed  to  acquire  the 
German  patents. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  And  also  to  acquire  the  German  patents;  yes, 
sir. 

Then  going  on  to  a  letter  written  November  29,  1919,  in  the  middle 
of  this,  addressed  to  W.  S.  Carpenter,  a  vice  president  of  the  du 
Pont  Co.,  from  Mr.  Meade,  and  dated  in  Paris,  which  I  would  like 
to  have  you  look  at,  especially  on  the  second  page,  where  we  begin 
to  get  what  seems  to  be  one  of  the  explanations  which  is  of  very 
intense  interest  in  the  matter  of  protecting  the  dye  industry  in  this 
country. 

I  will  offer  that  as  the  next  exhibit. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  919  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2571.) 

Raushenbush.  The  point  to  which  I  particularly  wish  to  refer 
in  that  last  exhibit  is  the  end  of  the  second  paragraph  on  that  page. 
I  wonder  if  you  would  read  that.  The  letter  deals  with  a  great  num- 
ber of  things,  but  largely  the  negotiations  with  the  German  chemical 
industry,  and  I  think  you  had  men  over  there,  did  you  not,  negotiat- 
ing with  them  off  and  on  pretty  steadily,  from  very  shortly  after 
the  war,  on? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2409 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  No  ;  I  think  we  had  nobody  there  steadily. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Oif  and  on.  They  were  constantly  going  and 
•coming,  were  they  not? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  that  is  correct;  yes,  sir,  not  literally, 
constantly. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Who  were  your  representatives  over  there  ?  At 
this  moment  Mr.  Meade  was  over  there,  and  you  also  had  a  Mr.  Berg 
over  there  reporting  to  you. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir ;  he  was  over  there. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  And  at  various  times  it  seems  to  me  you  had 
other  officers.     Did  not  Mr.  Poucher  go  over? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  he  did. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  And  Mr.  Laffey? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  tliink  so. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  And  Mr.  Kunz? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  so.  I  do  not  know  that  thev  were 
all  there  in  1919. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  We  find  them  getting  together  in  1919. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  it  is  quite  likely. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  While  this  business  was  going  on,  of  showing 
the  country  the  importance  of  the  chemical  industry  in  warfare, 
which  most  of  us  agree  is  of  great  importance — we  divide,  seem- 
ingly, Dr.  Sparre,  only  on  the  degree  to  which  it  is  important 

Dr.  Sparre.  No;  I  disagree  with  another  statement. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  On  that  particular  point? 

Dr.  Sparre.  No;  not  on  that  particular  point. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  We  will  come  back  to  that  in  just  a  moment. 

At  the  moment,  when  you  were  showing  the  country  here  that  it 
was  very  important  to  take  over  the  control  of  the  chemical 
monopoly,  to  take  it  away  from  Germany  and  get  a  well-developed 
chemical  industry  in  this  country,  you  were  dealing  with  the  Ger- 
mans over  there,  and  that  sentence  which  I  asked  you  to  read  would 
throw  some  light  on  it,  would  it  not? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Which  sentence  do  you  mean? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  mean  this  one,  toward  the  end  of  the  second 
paragraph,  on  the  second  page,  which  states  [reading] 

It  may  be  that  the  I.  G.— 

that  is  the  German  dye  trust — 

may  decide  to  deal  as  a  unit  in  the  United  States  with  either  National, 
Grasselli,  or  ourselves.  At  any  rate  you  can  see  the  importance  of  ever- 
lastingly turning  the  regulatory  screw  in  America  both  as  to  control  of 
imports  and  future  protective  legislation. 

Now,  as  I  understand  it,  the  idea  is  that  that  letter  says  that  the 
Germans  must  know  that  you  have  control  of  the  situation  in  this 
counry,  and  that  they  cannot  expect  to  use  the  export  market,  be- 
cause you  can  prevent  them  in  cloing  that  and  that  it  is  therefore 
important  to — 

everlastingly  turn  the  regulatory  screw  in  America  both  as  to  control  of  imports 
and  future  protective  legislation. 

At  the  same  time  the  big  tariff  campaign  was  going  on.  This  was 
one  of  the  results  of  that  campaign  that  brought  the  Germans  to 
terms? 


2410  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont,  It  was  what  was  sought  over  there. 

Mr.  Eaushenbush.  It  was  intended  to  bring  the  Germans  to- 
terms  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes ;  to  keep  them  out. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  In  that  connection,  in  the  same  document  there 
are  minutes  of  a  meeting  held  November  20,  21,  and  22  at  the  Baur 
au  Lac  Hotel.  Zurich,  Switzerland,  in  which  the  representatives  of 
the  Badische  Co.  had  an  indigo  plant  to  be  converted  into  a  mustard- 
gas  plant,  according  to  Dr.  Hale,  inside  of  an  hour. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Not  an  indigo  plant. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  He  referred  to  it  as  having  an  indigo  process,, 
didn't  he? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Only  a  part  of  the  plant. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  They  had  a  much  bigger  plant,  of  course. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  am  not  a  chemist,  but  I  do  not  think, 
indigo  and  mustard  gas  would  relate  to  the  same  thing  at  all. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  do  not  want  to  be  f ormalistic  about  this ;  Dr. 
Hale  describes  in  detail  that  matter,  but  I  skipped  the  description. 
But  let  us  take,  for  example,  indigo,  and  he  talks  about  how  it  is 
processed,  the  making  of  chlorine  gas,  and  so  on,  and  he  says  that 
with  Germany  drawn  into  war  this  entire  plant  could  be  converted 
into  a  mustard-gas  plant  in  less  than  an  hour's  time. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  said  I  thought  that  was  an  exaggeration. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Yes;  you  did  at  the  time. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Now,  coming  to  this  negotiation  you  were  hav- 
ing with  the  Germans  at  the  time — that  memorandum  of  the  minutes 
I  would  like  to  enter  as  an  exhibit  with  the  proper  number. 

(The  minutes  referred  to  were  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  920  "  and  are 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2573.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  is  proposed  here  to  form  a  world  corpora  - 
tion — what  they  call  a  world  company — with  this  German  company. 
Isn't  that  about  it?  They  reserve  the  German  market  for  them- 
selves, and  they  say  the  French  market  is  tied  up  by  the  French,  but 
you  will  have  about  the  rest  of  the  world  on  that.  Isn't  that  about 
an  accurate  outline  of  what  this  process  was  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  see  that. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  is  on  the  first  page  there  [reading]  : 

The  world  company  should  have  the  whole  world  as  its  market,  except  as 
follows : 

(a)  France  with  whom  the  Badische  Co.  already  have  made  a  contract  which 
is  limited  to  the  manufacture  and  sale  only  in  France,  her  colonies,  and  pro- 
tectorates. It  is  understood  that  should  the  French  fail  to  carry  out  their 
plans  these  territories  should  be  included  in  those  assigned  to  the  world 
company. 

(6)  The  Badische  Co.  shall  be  granted  an  exclusive  territory  in  which  to 
exploit  the  process,  Germany  and  the  territory  known  as  "Austria-Hungary." 

And  certain  further  rights  in  Europe.  And  then  you  seem  to  have 
the  rest  of  the  world  there,  according  to  this  tentative  plan. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  The  paragraph  numbered  1  there  says  it  is 
possible  to  do  that. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Yes.  And  then  you  go  on  to  describe  what 
that  company  would  be  if  that  plan  went  through. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  was  all  possible. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2411 

Mr.  Ratjshenbush.  Yes ;  it  was  all  possible.  The  point  is  not  the 
detail  here,  Mr.  du  Pont.  What  I  am  trying  to  get  at  is  that  tbere 
were  fairly  serious  negotiations  going  on  at  the  time. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  At  that  stage  they  were  all  possibilities. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Yes.  Here  was  a  new  situation  the  world  was 
in.  Germany  had  had  the  chemical  monopoly,  had  shown  it  up  very 
■expressly  in  a  military  way  during  the  war,  and  the  chemical  com- 
panies in  the  rest  of  the  world  were  interested  in  either  utilizing  their 
processes  or  their  chemists  or  their  markets,  isn't  that  true  ?  There  is 
nothing  unusual  about  it.  All  I  am  trying  to  get  is  an  agreement 
on  that. 

JNIr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  No.  The  only  point  I  wanted  to  make  is 
that  they  were  discussing  possibilities. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Yes.     This  did  not  go  through. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  No. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Mr.  Sparre,  did  you  want  to  interrupt  to  tell 
>me  where  I  made  a  mistake  a  little  while  ago? 

Dr.  Sparre.  I  said  I  disagreed  with  the  statement  that  the  dis- 
armament would  be  a  farce  unless  tlie  chemical  industry  were  under 
control. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Would  you  raise  your  voice,  please  ? 

Dr.  Sparre.  Do  you  want  me  to  repeat  it? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  No  ;  but  would  you  just  raise  your  voice  from 
now  on? 

Dr.  Sparre.  All  right.  That  was  my  only  disagreement.  That 
was  a  statement  I  made. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  You  disagreed  with'  what  was  said  here  about 
the  disarmament  being  a  farce  unless  the  chemical  industry  were 
under  control? 

Dr.  Sparre.  Yes.  I  think  that  is  an  exaggeration.  I  don't  think 
there  is  the  slightest  foundation  for  it.  I  don't  think  that  it  has 
any  connection  with  disarmament. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  You  don't  think  it  has  any  connection  with 
disarmament? 

Dr.  Sparre.  The  commercial  chemical  industry. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Did  you  see  any  material  put  out  by  chemical 
companies,  the  American  dye  industry,  when  they  made  their  case 
at  the  time  ?    Or  was  that  put  out  over  your  opposition  ? 

Dr.  Sparre.  No;  I  do  not  disagree  with  anything  else  said,  only 
that  one  statement. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  certainly  thought  in  those  days  when  they 
were  trying  to  protect  their  newly  won  industry  against  the  rest 
of  the  world,  it  was  right  in  line  with  the  disarmament  question. 
It  is  either  concerned  with  the  armament  question  or  the  disarma- 
ment question,  is  it  not?  There  isn't  much  doubt  about  that,  is 
■there? 

Dr.  Sparre.  No;  I  think  it  is  a  commercial  industry. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Then  why  did  you  write  a  year  ago  that  "  the 
industry  is  to  be  considered  especially  because  of  its  importance  to 
national  defense  "  ? 

Dr.  Sparre.  It  is  important  to  national  defense;  yes.  I  don't 
have  any  disagreement  with  that. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  National  defense  being  then  either  disarma- 
.ment  or  armament.     It  is  either  way  you  do  it.     It  is  in  the  middle 


2412  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

of  the  aniiainent  question  rather  than  the  disarnient  question.  It 
is  very  important,  is  it  not  ?     I  believe  we  agree  on  that. 

Dr.  Sparre.  Certainly  it  is  very  important;  yes.  There  is  no  dis- 
agreement on  that. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Coming  back  to  this  outline,  here  is  another 
letter  dated  January  12,  1920,  which  will  be  offered  as  an  exhibit. 

(The  extract  of  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  921  " 
and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  page  2574.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  is  an  extract  from  a  letter  dat^d  January 
12,  1920,  from  Mr.  Berg,  describing  a  further  conference  between  the 
English  and  the  Germans  and  the  Belgians  in  Aachen,  in  Germany,. 
January  12,  1920,  in  which  the  English  and  the  Belgians  and  ap- 
parently the  French — French  members  of  the  Solvay  Company — are 
also  trying  to  negotiate  with  the  Germans,  and  the  head  of  the 
German  group  has  said  he  has  already  made  an  arrangement  Avith 
the  du  Pont  Co.  to  tie  up  with  them,  if  thej^  can  agree. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  On  what  subject  was  that,  Mr.  Raushen- 
bush ? 

Mr,  Raushenbush.  Do  you  want  me  to  go  through  the  whole 
letter? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  No.  I  think  the  subject  was  mentioned  in: 
the  fifth  paragraph. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Of  the  second  page? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  The  first  page,  where  it  says,  "  World  ex- 
ploitation of  the  ammonia  process." 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  don't  seem  to  find  that. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  is  the  fifth  paragraph  on  the  first  page. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Oh,  yes.  "  World  exploitation  of  the  ammonia 
process  is  concerned." 

It  says  [reading]  : 

The  Badisclie  has,  as  you  know,  been  communicating  with  Brunner  Mend 
for  quite  some  time  and  he  believed  the  Badische  should  see  them  alone  and 
inform  them  in  a  general  way  about  our  arrangement  as  far  as  the  world 
exploitation  of  the  ammonia  process  is  concerned. 

Did  the  Badische  have  other  processes  which  were  particularly 
interesting  to  you  in  a  chemical  way  at  that  time  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Why,  yes;  they  had  a  very  large  number 
of  processes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  was  one  of  the  leading  chemical  companies 
of  Germany;  was  it  not? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  was  only  in  that  connection  that  I  wanted  to^ 
bring  that  out. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Incidentally,  that  previous  report,  I  think^ 
refers  to  the  ammonia  process  also. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Now  we  come  back  to  Washington  about  this 
time  in  1920,  and  on  January  22,  1920,  we  have  a  letter  from  Mr. 
Poucher  to  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No,  922"  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  257G.)^ 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Mr,  Chairman,  I  think  it  is  unfortunate  that 
Mr,  Irenee  du  Pont  was  excused  today.  That  is  a  part  that  requires 
his  presence. 

I  •' Exhibit  No.  922"  was  referred  to  further  in  Part  XII,  p.  2774. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2413 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Who? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Mr.  Irenee  dii  Pont. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  is  right. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  He  was  at  that  time  the  president  and  he 
would  have  at  his  fingers'  ends  things  that  I  do  not  know  anything 
about,  and  I  doubt  if  my  brother  Lammot  is  familiar  with  it. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  am  just  pinch  hitting. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Could  we  pass  to  another  part  of  it  and  let 
that  go  until  he  returns? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  See  if  you  can  help  identify  events  there. 
Were  you  still  president  of  the  company  there  in  1920,  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  No. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Not  in  1920? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  No.  I  had  nothing  to  do  with  this  part  of 
it  and  I  am  totally  unfamiliar  with  it,  except  as  it  comes  to  me  by 
reading  the  documents  for  the  first  time. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  is  a  matter  describing  the  fight  here  inWash- 
ington.  It  says,  "  Situation  clearer  and  better  today."  Can  you 
identify  "  Martin  "  and  "  the  major  "  and  "  Culbertson  "?  Mr.  Wes- 
ton, you  were  active  in  all  this? 

Mr.  Weston.  Yes.  That  was  15  years  ago,  but  I  cannot  think  who 
Martin  is  or  the  major. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  You  have  seen  all  of  this  correspondence  re- 
cently, haven't  you? 

Mr.  Weston.  Yes;  and  I  have  tried  to  remember  a  lot  of  it,  but 
have  been  only  partially  successful. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  The  only  one  I  recall  there  is  Culbertson. 
He  was  a  Senator  at  the  time. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  He  was  a  Senator? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  And  Wood,  do  you  recognize  as  John  P.  Wood, 
the  Congressman? 

Mr.  Weston.  Where  did  he  figure?     I  don't  recognize  the  name. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  He  was  in  Congress.  Perhaps  you  can  get  it 
from  this. 

Situation  clearer  and  better  tmlay. 

Martin  and  the  major  are  liard  at  it.  The  plan  is  to  push  and  keep  Wood 
in  the  background  ;  that  is,  beliind  Culbertson.  Martin  and  the  major  are  to 
fight  it  out  with  Culbertson  by  agreement  witli  Senator  Curtis. 

They  will  take  anything  from  Culbertson  that  will  help  embargo  and  nothing 
that  will  hurt. 

It  is  not  that  so  much  as  the  next  paragraph  that  I  am  interested 
in: 

The  major  will  likely  propose  that,  as  this  is  a  measure  touching  national 
defense ;  the  Commission  should  be  headed  by  General  Siebert  to  give  it  the 
flavor  of  defense  rather  than  tariff. 

Does  anybody  place  the  major  in  that  story? 

Mr.  Weston.  I  cannot. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  only  point  there  was  that  here  was  a  defi- 
nite attempt  to  give,  I  suppose,  the  Embargo  Commission  a  flavor  of 
defense  rather  than  of  tariff.    That  is  the  only  purpose. 

Mr.  Weston.  Culbertson  was  a  member  of  the  Tariff  Commission^ 
wasn't  he? 


2414  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  do  not  recall  that. 

Mr.  Kaushenbush.  That  is  the  only  purpose  for  which  that  is 
introduced. 

Mr.  Weston.  No;  that  does  not  mean  anything  to  me.  The  only 
major  I  can  think  of  was  a  Major  Sylvester.  That  is  bringing  in 
another  dead  man,  but  I  don't  think  he  had  anything  to  do  with  that. 

Mr.  Kaushenbush.  Mr.  Weston,  are  you  "  C.  K.  W."  ? 

Mr.  Weston.  Yes. 

Mr  .Kaushenbush.  I  have  here  a  letter  signed  by  you,  addressed 
to  Mr.  Kust,  of  the  Koppers  Co.  in  Pittsburgh,  November  10,  1919. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  923  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2577.) 

Mr.  Kaushenbush.  That  refers  to  a  Col.  John  P.  Wood.  Is  that 
the  man  referred  to  in  the  earlier  letter  ? 

Mr.  Weston.  Yes;  Twenty-second  and  Spring  Garden.  John  P. 
Wood  was,  I  think,  head  of  a  large  textile  industry  in  Philadelphia. 

Mr.  Kaushenbush.  Yes. 

Mr.  Weston.  That  "  Twenty-second  and  Spring  Garden  "  rather 
identifies  it. 

Mr,  Kaushenbush.  Yes;  it  does.  Then  you  were  asking  the  sup- 
port of  the  Koppers  group  in  Pittsburgh,  with  Mr.  Grundy  in 
Pennsylvania  to  help  you  in  this  matter,  w^eren't  you  ? 

Mr.  Weston.  Yes. 

Mr.  Kaushenbush.  Then  there  is  another  letter  which  shows  some- 
what the  same  sort  of  thing,  and  again  may  I  point  out  that  I  per- 
sonally feel  that  when  an  industry  wants  to  get  something  it  operates 
in  certain  wa3^s,  and  one  cannot  at  long  distance  pass  too  much  judg- 
ment on  it,  and  I  am  not  attempting  that,  but  here  is  a  letter  dated 
March  23,  1920,  addressed  to  Mr.  Choate  and  signed  by  Mr.  Poucher, 
which  deals  with  this  same  business. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  924 "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2577.) 

Mr.  Kaushenbush,  Will  you  look  at  that,  Mr.  du  Pont,  if  you  can  ? 
It  deals  with  this  opposition  of  the  textile  industry  to  your  bill  and 
shows  the  rather  interesting  way  one  of  your  men  attempted,  it 
seems,  to  influence  the  textile  industry.  I  refer  to  the  last  para- 
graph on  the  first  page,  beginning  "  Incidentally,  Mr.  Hobbs."  Can 
anybody  identify  Mr.  Hobbs,  Mr.  Franklin  W,  Hobbs? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  He  was  a  man  interested  in  textiles  in  New 
England ;  I  think  in  Providence. 

Mr.  Kaushenbush  (reading)  : 

Incidentally,  Mr.  Hobbs  called  Mr.  Woods'  attention  to  the  movement  under 
way  by  the  Department  of  Justice,  to  investigate  the  textile  industry  on  the 
charge  of  undue  profiteering.  At  any  rate,  Mr.  Wood  decided  to  call  this  meet- 
ing. Mr.  Hobbs  tells  me  he  made  a  statement  along  the  lines  of  Mr.  Hobbs' 
letter.  This  was  followed  by  some  remarks  by  Mr.  Auerbach,  to  the  effect  that 
in  his  opinion  these  mills  should  all  support  the  bill. 

It  would  seem  to  be  a  little  use  of  well,  perhaps,  inside  information 
from  the  Department  of  Justice  in  the  matter.  Does  anybody  know 
anything  about  that  transaction  at  all?  Don't  you  remember,  Mr. 
Weston  ? 

Mr.  Weston.  Let  me  check  it  again.     I  have  not  noticed  this. 

Mr.  Kaushenbush.  I  realize  we  are  at  some  handicap  by  the  ab- 
sence of  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont,  but  he  was  excused. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2415 

Mr.  Weston.  Where  is  that  reference  to  the  Department  of 
Justice  ? 

Mr.  Eaushenbush.  The  last  paragraph. 

Mr.  Weston.  No  ;  I  cannot  throw  any  light  on  that. 

Mr.  Rausitenbush.  You  do  not  identif}^  that  in  any  way? 

Mr.  Weston.  No,  it  does  not  register  with  me  at  all. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  We  come  to  another  letter  dated  February  3, 
1920,  from  your  agent,  Mr.  Berg,  over  in  France  to  the  du  Pont  Co. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  925  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2578.)^ 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  In  the  second  paragraph  on  the  second  page  of 
this  letter,  the  Germans  seemed  to  realize  that  you  are  doing  what 
seems  to  be  working  against  them  over  in  this  country.  There  isn't 
much  question  about  that  point,  is  there  ?  Dr.  Herty  was  in  on  that, 
apparently.  Now,  did  this  scrap,  Mr.  du  Pont  or  Mr.  Swint,  or  as 
far  as  anybody  remembers  here,  did  this  business  of  your  raising 
the  tariff  against  the  Germans  sort  of  put  an  end  for  awhile  to 
your  negotiations  with  them  about  these  various  things  ?  Was  there 
the  feeling  that  they  would  not  particularly  deal  with  you  on  their 
processes  and  patents  as  the  result  of  this? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  That  paragraph  seems  to  indicate  that. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  mean,  what  is  your  general  experience  and 
memory  on  that  thing?    How  about  it? 

Mr.  Swint.  i  was  not  connected  with  this  sort  of  work  at  that 
time. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Was  there  a  lapse  in  connection  with  your 
securing  this? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  We  never  did  get  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  On  any  arrangements  at  all? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Not  on  this  ammonia  job. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  No,  but  didn't  it  affect  the  German  companies 
generally  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  think  it  did.  but  I  do  not  recall 
how  it  happened. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  do  not  want  to  particularly  go  into  it,  but  we 
have  some  other  letters  about  it. 

Now,  coming  back  to  the  Congress  of  the  United  States,  it  would 
seem  that  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont  had  taken  the  fight  down  to  Congress 
himself.  Was  he  then  the  president  of  the  company,  Mr.  Pierre 
du  Pont? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  When  did  he  take  it  over  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  In  1919. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  exhibit  needs  some  identification,  per- 
haps, and  we  had  better  wait  until  he  comes  back  on  that.  Let  me 
take  that  up  later.    I  will  withdraw  that  for  a  moment. 

At  the  same  time  that  you  were  making  this  fight  in  the  Con- 
gress for  your  legislation,  your  protection,  is  it  not  true  that  you 
had  a  man  in  Paris  who  was  actively  engaged  in  publicity  work  over 
there  in  trying  to  get  dispatches  sent  from  both  Paris  and  London 
to  make  our  people  in  this  country  feel  that  we  absolutely  had  to 

1  "  Exhibit  No.  935  "  was  referred  to  further  in  Part  XII,  p.  2756. 


2416  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

have  this  protection  for  our  dye  industry  or  your  dye  industry  as  a 
war  measure  ?    Do  you  remember  that,  Mr.  Weston  ? 

Mr.  Weston.  Yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Will  you  tell  us  a  little  about  that  ?  Here  is  a 
letter  from  Mr.  Raleigh  written  from  Paris  to  you  January  25,  1921, 
which  will  be  the  next  exhibit  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  926"  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2579.) 

Mr.  Weston.  What  is  the  name  ? 

Mr.  Raltshenbush.  Mr.  Raleigh,  addressed  to  Mr.  Weston. 

Mr.  Weston.  Yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  call  your  attention  to  paragraph  3,  as  to  the 
matter  of  control  of  the  press.  He  speaks  of  having  arranged  cer- 
tain articles  to  come  out  in  France.  He  goes  and  talks  with  some 
prominent  people  there  and  gets  news  stories  which  seem  to  be 
calculated  to  have  a  very  definite  effect  on  public  opinion  here. 

Mr.  Weston.  That  was  the  object  of  the  visit  over  there.  The 
visit  over  there  was  to  try  to  off-set  the  very  rabid  German  propa- 
ganda which  was  coming  over  here,  I  think,  at  that  time — this  is 
back  in  what? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  In  1921. 

Mr.  Weston.  At  that  time  the  question  of  reparation  dyes  was 
under  consideration.  I  think  we  were  still  officially  at  war  with 
Germany  at  that  time.  I  don't  remember  just  when  we  signed  the 
treaty.  When  was  it?  Anyway,  the  question  of  reparation  dyes 
was  a  very  live  topic.  There  were  a  number  of  American  chemists 
and  people  interested  in  the  industry  over  there,  and  we  were  very 
anxious  at  this  end,  our  D^^e  Institute  committee,  to  offset  what  we 
thought  were  the  unfair  and  untrue  stories  that  were  coming  from 
abroad.  I  went  over  there  to  try  to  get  in  touch  with  the  news 
sources  and  put  the  American  newspaper  correspondents  in  touch 
with  the  sources  of  information.  Mr.  Raleigh  was  an  old  American 
newspaper  acquaintance  of  mine,  and  when  I  left  I  left  him  in 
charge  of  that  work.  His  work  principally  was  to  keep  the  news 
going  from  the  American  sources  over  there  rather  than  from  the 
German  sources  which  we  had  been  getting. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  You  speak  of  the — 

Public  Ledger  syndicate  and  the  Chicago  Tribune  syndicate  papers  are  to  be 
supplied  with  a  story  I  have  arranged  which  will  point  out  that  the  French 
Government,  upon  confidential  information  from  its  investigators  in  Germany 
regarding  a  coming  great  German  dump  of  goods,  will  further  increase  its  co- 
efficient tariff  rates  on  dyestuffs,  chemicals,  etc.  The  stories  will  point  out  that 
France  will  increase  the  coefficients  not  only  to  safeguard  French  industry  but 
also  to  prevent  further  unemployment. 

You  go  on,  then,  with  other  letters  addressed  to  your  department, 
filed  by  them,  Mr.  Poucher,  and  others,  particularly  January  5,  1920, 
to  cite  the  headlines  in  the  British  papers,  "  Britain  foresees  gas 
war." 

That  will  be  offered  as  an  exhibit. 

(The  document  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  927  "  and 
is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2580.)^ 

1  "  Exhibit  No.  027"  was  referred  to  further  in  I'art  XII,  p.  2759. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2417 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  headline  continues : 

New  legislation  will  shut  out  dyestuffs  and  enable  plants  to  be  built  which 
can  be  converted  into  poison-gas  factories. 

You  cite  further  stories  from  the  British  papers : 

Dye  plants,  by  a  slight  change,  can  be  readily  converted  into  war  plants  for 
the  manufacture  of  poison  gas. 

Then  you  take  credit  on  January  15.  1921,  for  a  story  in  the  Bos- 
ton Transcript,  dated  from  London.  ""  Britain  fore-^ees  <ias  warfare  ", 
a  story  by  Wythe  Williams  from  Paris  about  German  dye  plots 
against  tlie  United  States;  the  Evening  Bulletin  of  Philadelphia, 
dispatch  dated  from  London;  and  the  Public  Ledger,  a  dispatch 
dated  from  Paris. '"  Germany  sets  dye  trade  trap." 

That  will  be    offered  as  another  exhibit. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  928  ", 
and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2851.^ 

Mr.  Weston.  I  do  not  remember  the  details  of  that,  but  all  of 
that  was  part  of  a  campaign  that  we  were  conducting  for  the  up- 
building of  the  American  dye  industry  and  to  offset,  as  I  said  before, 
the  things  that  were  coming  out  of  Germany  that  I  thought  were 
inimical  to  our  own  industry. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  And  you  had  the  men  in  Paris  who  were  writ- 
ing articles  for  the  Paris  editions  of  the  New  York  Herald  and  Chi- 
cago Tribune  writing  under  assitmed  names;  is  that  right? 

Mr.  Weston.  Yes.  I  think  that  was  Ben  Raleigh.  Ben  Raleigh 
was  the  European  representative  of  the  Whaley-Eaton  News  Serv- 
ice, and  Ben  was  doing  this  entirely  outside  of  his  Whaley-Eaton 
connection,  and  he  did  not  want  to  do  it  under  his  own  name. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  He  was  writing  under  the  name  of  Guy  Martin 
for  publication  purposes? 

Mr.  Weston.  I  do  not  recall  the  name,  but  if  that  is  the  name 
that  is  given  in  the  letter,  that  is  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  will  offer  as  an  exhibit,  dated  April  28,  1921, 
letter  from  the  publicity  manager  to  Mr.  Meade,  dealing  with  that 
«tory. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  929  ",  and  is  in- 
cluded in  the  appendix  on  p.  2581.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Now,  isn't  this  true — this  is  not  your  chemical 
company  we  want  to  got  into,  but  the  others — is  it  not  true  that 
you  thought  the  situation  was  important  enough  so  that  you  had 
to  send  a  man  over  to  Europe  to  keep  the  pot  boiling,  not  only  in 
Paris  but  in  London,  with  dispatches  that  would  be  calculated  to 
make  the  American  people  see  the  importance  of  favoring  your  par- 
ticular industry  ? 

Mr.  AVeston.  That  is  exactly  what  we  were  after. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  is  exactly  what  you  were  after  and 
exactly  what  you  were  doing. 

Mr.  Westox.  Yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Just  to  show  you  were  not  the  only  ones  here, 
I  want  to  offer  an  exhibit  dated  June  14,  1922,  which  indicates — 
again,  you  received  this  from  the  Whaley-Eaton  Service — that  some 

1  "  Exhibit  No.  928  "  was  referred  to  further  in  part  XII,  p.  2760. 


2418  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

of  your  competitors  in  the  chemical  industry  were  over  negotiating 
with  the  Germans, 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  930",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2582.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Mr.  du  Pont,  would  you  recognize  that  letter 
at  all?  Do  you  recognize  which  of  your  competitors  were  over 
there,  referred  to  in  those  negotiations? 

Mr.  Weston.  I  don't  know. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  No,  I  do  not  recognize  them  at  all. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Isn't  there  anj^body  here,  outside  of  Mr,  Irenee 
du  Pont,  more  closely  connected  with  the  whole  tariff  and  dye  busi- 
ness at  that  time?  Your  competitors  were  apparently  over  there,, 
and,  according  to  this,  they  were  using  three  United  States  Con- 
gressmen to  help  them  in  their  negotiations.  Don't  you  remember 
who  those  people  were?  It  must  have  been  some  company  of  some 
importance. 

Mr,  Lammot  du  Pont,  This  refers  to  competitors. 

Mr.  Weston.  This,  I  take  it,  Mr.  Raushenbush,  is  a  quotation  from 
the  Whaley-Eaton  Service,  which  is  one  of  these  Washington  news 
services, 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  A  cable  from  Paris. 

Mr.  Weston.  Sent  along  as  a  matter  of  information.  That  would 
be  my  guess  on  that,  without  knowing  anything  at  all  about  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Your  staff  has  all  this  correspondence  some- 
w^here  in  the  back  of  the  room,  I  am  sure,  but,  as  I  remember  it 
from  the  rest  of  the  papers  which  we  did  not  take,  one  of  your  com- 
petitors had  this  particular  Congressman  mentioned  in  the  third 
line  helping  them  in  connection  with  the  negotiations  with  the  Ger- 
mans at  the  time.  Now  we  find  out  he  had  two  other  Congressmen 
associated  with  him,  which  makes  three,  and  what  I  am  trying  to 
get  at  is  what  company  that  was  that  was  so  interested  in  getting 
in  on  this  German  dye  industry. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Weren't  they  all  interested,  all  of  the  manu- 
facturers in  the  chemical  industry? 

Mr.  Weston.  All  except  those  who  had  German  connections.  They 
were  not  interested  in  this  American  Dye  Institute.  That  was  Metz 
and  some  others.    I  forget  who. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Weren't  all  of  the  members  of  the  Dye  In- 
stitute active  in  this  question? 

Mr.  Weston.  All  the  members? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes, 

Mr.  Weston.  Very  active. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Haven't  you  a  list  of  those  members? 

Mr.  Weston,  No;  I  have  not. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Haven't  you  a  list  of  the  members  of  the 
Dye  Institute?    I  think  that  would  be  quite  complete. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  don't  think  we  have  that  here,  as  I  recall  it. 

Mr.  Weston.  It  included  all  of  the  American  dye  and  chemical 
manufacturers,  except  the  few  who  had  German  connections  sur- 
viving their  pre-war  control  of  the  industry  in  this  country.  There 
are  not  many  of  them. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Wliat  I  am  getting  at  is  this:  Some  of  you 
must  have  known  what  your  competitors  were  trying  to  do  over 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2419 

there  in  Germany.  Either  they  were  trying  to  sign  up  with  the 
Germans  on  some  of  these  patents  and  processes  at  the  time  when 
the  Germans  were  antagonistic  to  you  because  of  tariff  activities, 
■or  else  they  were  trying  something  else. 

Mr.  Weston.  I  am  sure,  without  knowing  names,  that  there  were 
no  competitors  in  this  thing,  that  all  of  the  American  dye  and  chem- 
ical interests  worked  together  in  this  movement,  and  that  the  only 
competitors  were  the  few  with  German  connections  wdio  were  not 
members  of  the  institute. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Who  would  those  be? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont,  I  think  at  that  time  all  of  the  German  pat- 
•ents  were  in  this  Cliemical  Foundation.  You  see,  the  United  States 
Government  took  the  whole  thing  over,  and  it  was  placed  in  the 
hands  of  the  Chemical  Foundation,  so  the  Germans  were  powerless 
to  negotiate  their  patents  with  anyone. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  And  those  patents  were  available  to  every 
American  manufacturer. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  processes  were  still  open,  weren't  they? 
I  mean,  you  were  negotiating  with  them  about  this  ammonia  process 
liere  a  little  while  ago. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  was  not  a  part  of  the  dye  industry. 

Mr.  SwiNT.  I  do  not  believe  there  were  any  patents  valid  at  that 
time.     I  am  not  sure. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  But  there  were  processes  of  considerable 
importance. 

Mr.  SwiNT.  Yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  do  not  think  the  distinction  you  made  there 
changes  the  subject? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  You  are  quite  right  in  that. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Here  is  something  I  do  not  want  to  stress  too 
much,  but  apparently  the  Germans  had  enough  so  that  rather  lead- 
ing American  Congressmen  carried  on  negotiations  for  somebody 
who  I  recall  from  your  file  was  one  of  your  competitors,  and  now 
we  find  he  has  two  others,  who  are  rather  important  Congressmen, 
associated  with  him.  All  I  am  trying  to  show  is  not  what  your 
company  was  doing,  but  what  competitive  companies  were  doing, 
and  I  wanted  to  see  if  somebody  from  your  correspondence  or  file 
could  find  what  that  transaction  was  or  what  the  name  of  that 
•company  was. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  don't  think  there  is  anybody  could  state 
that,  unless  it  is  Irenee,  and  I  don't  know  whether  he  would  be 
able  to. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Cannot  we  mark  that  for  something  to 
investigate?     We  may  be  able  to  find  out. 

Mr,  SwiNT.  Mr,  Raushenbush,  I  would  like  to  correct  that  state- 
ment about  the  question  of  patents,  I  recall  now  there  were  several 
patents  on  ammonia  that  were  still  in  force  at  that  time.  There 
was  a  long  series  of  them  and  some  of  them  had  expired  and  some  not. 

activities  of  AMERICAN   DYE  INDUSTRY  IN  OPPOSING  ATTEMPTS   TO 
CONTROL  THE   CHEMICAL   WARFARE    BUSINESS   IN    192  2 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  In  view  of  the  absence  of  so  many  members, 
when  we  arranged  our  schedule  we  did  not  realize,  or  I  did  not 


2420  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

realize  personally,  that  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont  would  not  be  here.  I 
think  we  would  like  to  wait  until  his  return  before  proceeding  with 
all  of  this.  But  I  do  want  to  ask  Mr.  Weston,  who  is  here,  just  a 
few  more  questions  about  things  at  this  time,  Mr.  Weston,  I  want 
to  show  you  an  exhibit  dated  September  22,  1921,  which  will  be 
offered. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  931  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2582.)^ 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  In  this  letter  you  wrote  to  Mr.  P.  H.  Whaley 
of  the  AVhaley-Eaton  Service: 

My  Dear  Whaley:  You  know,  of  course,  that  the  chemical  industry  will 
figure  very  largely  in  the  coming  Disarmament  Conference.  The  Chemical 
Warfare  Service  will,  of  course,  be  consulte<l.  It  may  interest  you,  as  a  piece 
of  news,  to  learn  that  the  chemical  industry  as  a  whole  will  be  represented 
through  advisers  to  be  appointed  to  help  the  American  delegation  solve  its 
problems.  The  names  of  several  distinguished  chemists  are  now  under  con- 
sideration at  the  White  House  and  announcement  of  the  appointment  of  rep- 
resentatives of  the  chemical  industry  probal:)ly  will  be  made  very  soon. 

For  your  private  information,  the  President  has  received  favorably  the 
suggestion  that  Dr.  Charles  H.  Herty  and  Dr.  Edgar  Fahs  Smyth,  former 
provost  of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania  and  president  of  the  American 
Chemical  Society,  be  named  as  advisere. 

Could  you  identify  Dr.  Herty  for  us,  Mr.  Weston  ? 

Mr.  Weston.  Dr.  Herty  is  one  of  the  outstanding  chemists  of  the 
country.  Dr.  Herty  is  one  of  three  who  tonight  is  receiving  high 
honors  from  the  Chemical  Alliance  in  New  York.  That  is  where 
Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont  has  gone  to  present  those  honors  to  Dr.  Herty, 
Mr.  Poucher,  and  Francis  P.  Garvin.  Dr.  Herty  has  been  one  of 
the  outstanding  chemists  of  the  country.  Dr.  Smith  was  a  very 
famous  and  Avell-known  chemist  and  former  provost  of  the  University 
of  Pennsylvania,  as  it  says  here. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Was  not  Dr.  Herty  involved  in  your  negotia- 
tion with  the  Germans?    Had  he  not  been  in  Europe  for  you? 

Mr.  Weston.  Dr.  Herty  went  to  Europe  for  the  Dyes  Institute. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  For  the  Dyes  Institute  ? 

Mr.  Weston.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  But  he  was  actively  interested  in  your  dealings 
with  the  Germans  at  these  various  meetings,  was  he  not? 

Mr.  Weston.  He  was  actively  interested  in  our  activities  here. 
I  do  not  know  that  he  had  anything  to  do  with  the  Germans  here. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  seems  to  me  that  we  ran  into  him  a  few 
moments  ago. 

Mr.  Weston.  He  was  a  Dyes  Institute  man. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  And  you  contribute,  in  turn,  to  the  Dyes  Insti- 
tute? 

Mr.  Weston.  We  were  a  part  of  the  organization. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Then  we  come  to  something  which  took  place 
on  November  9,  1921,  and  I  show  you  this  letter  from  the  Whaley- 
Eaton  Service  to  Mr.  Frank  Byrne,  which  I  wnll  ask  to  be  appro- 
priately nnmbered. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  932  "  and  is  in- 
cluded in  the  appendix  on  p.  2582.)^ 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Was  Mr.  Byrne  in  your  department? 

1  "  Exliibit  No.  931  "  was  referred  to  further  in  Part  XII,  p.  2755. 
^"Exhibit  No.  932"  was  referred  to  further  in  Part  XII,  p.  2756. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2421 

Mr.  Weston.  Frank  Bj'rne  is  my  assistant. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  letter  states  [reading]  : 

Referring  to  your  telephone  inquiry  in  regard  to  the  members  of  the  French 
delegation  experts  on  chemical  disarmament^ — 

This  was  approaching  the  1922  Chemical  Disarmament  Conference 
here  in  Washington,  was  it  not? 

Our  own  information,  as  carried  in  our  last  week's  foreign  letter,  came  by 
cable,  which  mentioned  the  names  of  these  two  gentlemen  as  Mayer  and 
Moren.  On  inquiry  at  the  State  Department,  we  find  that  M.  Andre  Mayer 
is  in  Washington  with  the  French  delegation,  but  no  M.  Moren. 

Then  the  letter  goes  on  to  state  this,  to  which  I  call  your  attention : 

We  tliink  it  very  unlikely  that  we  will  he  able  to  get  any  of  the  details  of 
the  plan  for  chemical  disarmament  from  these  gentlemen,  but  we  will  do  our 
best. 

Mr.  Weston.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Do  I  take  it  from  that,  that  yon  were  trying  to 
sound  out  the  members  of  the  French  disarmament  delegation  at  that 
time  ? 

Mr.  Weston.  I  have  tried  to  refresh  my  memory  on  this,  and,  as  I 
recall  it,  the  Whalen-Eaton  Service  was  a  Washinglon  news  service, 
and  they  sent  out  the  announcement  that  these  gentlemen  were  com- 
ing over  from  Paris,  as  they  say  here  in  their  foreign  letter,  and  my 
department  asked  the  Whaley-Eaton  Service  if  they  had  any  more 
information  or  if  they  could  get  any  information  to  supplement  their 
news  announcement.     That  is  the  reply. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  reply  is  that,  ''  We  think  it  very  unlikely 
that  we  will  be  able  to  get  any  of  the  details  of  the  plan  for  chemical 
disarmament  from  these  gentlemen,  but  we  will  do  our  best." 

Mr.  Weston.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Now,  that,  together  with  an  exhibit  dated  No- 
vember 25,  1921,  which  you  wrote  to  Mr.  Poucher,  is  interesting. 
I  will  offer  that  last  letter  for  appropriate  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  933  ",  and  is  in- 
cluded in  the  appendix  on  p.  2583.)^ 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  letter  reads : 

I  am  informed  through  the  Washington  "  grapevine  "  that  the  British  dele- 
gation to  the  Limitation  of  Armaments  Conference  has  a  plan  to  submit  con- 
cerning the  chemical  industry  which  embotlies  these  points — 

That  again  is  a  disarmament  conference  or  a  limitation  of  arma- 
ments and  the  chemical  industry  is  coming  into  it,  is  it  not? 

Mr.  Weston.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  And  you  were  informed  through  the  "  Wash- 
ington grapevine  "  about  what  the  British  delegation  has.  Could  we 
stop  for  a  minute  and  find  out  just  exactly  whom  you  had  down  here 
in  Washington  at  that  time  ? 

Mr.  Weston.  We  had  down  here  a  large  delegation  and^  the 
American  Dyes  Institute  continued  on  the  job.  We  had  headquar- 
ters established  here,  with  a  secretary.  I  suppose  there  was  probably 
at  all  times  a  half  dozen  or  more  representatives  of  the  industry  who 
were  here  seeking  all  kinds  of  information  bearing  on  this  subject. 
That  is  probably  the  "  grapevine."     I  do  not  know. 

1  "  Exhibit  No.  933  "  was  referred  to  further  in  Part  XII,  p.  2757. 


2422  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Could  you  mention  some  of  the  names  of  the 
people  Avho  were  most  active  for  you  at  that  time  down  here  ?  What 
is  this  Washington  "  grapevine  ?  " 

Mr.  Westox.  I  was  just  saying  that. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  You  mentioned  the  institute,  and  so  forth. 
Can  you  give  me  the  names  of  all  of  these  people  ? 

Mr.  Weston.  You  will  have  to  get  the  names  from  the  Dyes  Insti- 
tute; get  the  membership  of  the  Dyes  Institute  and  check  up  the 
names. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  names  of  the  members  of  the  Dyes  Insti- 
tute would  go  all  over  the  country  and  be  located  there. 

Mr.  Westox.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Who  was  in  Washington  operating  here  at  that 
time  ? 

Mr.  Weston.  Tiiere  was  a  representative  from  nearly  every  com- 
pany which  was  doAvn  here.  I  think  all  the  Dyes  Institute  member- 
ship had  representatives  here.  We  were  here,  and  National  Analine 
had  men  here,  and  Calco  Chemical  Co.  had  men  here,  and  the  Dow 
Chemical  Co.  were  here,  and  the  Monsanto  Chemical  Co.  That  is 
about  as  far  as  I  remember  offhand. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  wanted  a  list  of  the  representatives  of  the 
companies  and  the  names  of  the  people  who  were  active  down  here 
just  before  this  1922  Disarmament  Conference,  when  the  Gas  Con- 
vention came  up.  There  was  an  attempt  to  control  the  chemical- 
warfare  business  in  1922? 

Mr.  Weston.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  And  I  am  asking  the  specific  and  detailed  list 
of  all  the  people  representing  the  chemical  industry  who  were  down 
here  and  actively  interested  in  opposing  that. 

Mr.  Weston.  I  guess,  to  get  a  real  answer  to  that,  we  will  have 
to  get  the  membership  of  the  dyes  industry,  because  I  remember 
only  a  few  individuals,  and  it  would  not  be  fair  to  name  a  few  people 
when  there  were  probably  20  here. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Perhaps  when  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont  comes  back, 
he  will  be  prepared  to  answer  that. 

I  want  to  finish  this  one  exhibit  which  I  have  already  introduced, 
the  letter  of  November  25,  1921,  that  you  wrote  to  Mr.  Poucher. 
You  state  [reading]  : 

I  am  informed  through  the  Washington  "  grapevine "  that  the  British  dele- 
gation to  the  Limitation  of  Armaments  Conference  has  a  plan  to  submit  con- 
cerning the  chemical  industry  which  embodies  these  points: 

First,  to  outlaw  the  use  of  poison  gas  in  warfare  and  to  outlaw  as  far  as 
possible,  anything  of  a  dangerous  chemical  nature. 

Second,  failing  to  secure  drastic  action  (as  they  expect  to  fail)  to  limit  the 
use  of  chemicals  as  much  as  possible. 

I  will  repeat  that : 

Second,  failing  to  secure  drastic  action  (as  they  expect  to  fail)  to  limit  the 
use  of  chemicals  as  much  as  possible. 

That  is  important,  in  a  way,  and  I  do  not  know  which  of  you  can 
answer  this  best,  but  here  you  know  what  the  British  delegation 
is  going  to  try  and  do,  and  what  it  knows  it  cannot  go  ahead  and  do, 
and  we  want  to  know  what  sources  you  had  on  that.  Were  you  told 
by  Nobel  about  that,  about  what  the  British  delegation  would  try 
and  what  it  would  fail  to  go  ahead  and  get  done? 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2423 

Mr.  Weston.  No  ;  I  cannot  throw  any  light  on  that. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Can  any  of  the  other  gentlemen  sitting  here? 

Mr,  Lamont  du  Pont.  I  certainly  cannot. 

Mr.  Weston.  These  reports,  Mr.  Raushenbush,  reports  of  that  sort 
to  Mr.  Poucher,  were  the  summary  of  information  which  was  coming 
to  me,  as  one  of  the  representatives  of  the  du  Pont  Co.  on  that  Dyes 
Institute  Committee,  and  probably  represents — I  say  probably 
because  I  do  not  know  definitely  at  this  date — probably  represents 
the  summary  of  the  news  and  gossip  tliat  we  had  all  along  the  line, 
where  everybody  was  trying  to  keep  their  ears  open  for  information. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  British  were  still  over  there  and  had  not 
come  over  here  yet,  and  had  not  said  anything,  and  you  were  passing 
around  information,  and  I  am  asking  for  definite  information,  which 
is  of  very  great  interest,  in  the  chemical  industry. 

There  is  a  sort  of  logic  to  this  questioning,  Mr.  Weston.  You 
started  off  with  a  proposition  by  some  of  your  people,  that  as  long 
as  there  was  chemical  control  by  Germany,  or,  no  chemical  control 
of  that  situation,  disarmament  would  be  a  farce.  Now  we  are  get- 
ting back  again  to  1922,  to  discuss  control  of  chemical  warfare,  and 
find  that  the  British  delegation  is  planning  to  propose  to  outlaw  the 
use  of  poison  gas,  and  expecting  to  fail  in  it. 

Mr.  Weston.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  And  somewhere  in  those  2  or  3  years  the  whole 
argument  for  the  control  of  the  chemical  industry  as  a  means  of  dis- 
armament has  shifted  and  changed ;  and  the  third  proposition  is  also 
one  which  is  very  interesting  to  the  chemical  industry : 

Third,  to  put  the  chemical  industries  of  the  various  nations  under  the  control 
of  the  governments. 

Those  were  the  three  propositions  which  you  heard  about,  and  I 
was  asking  for  definite  information  on  how  you  knew  about  these 
things  and  I  was  going  to  ask  about  how  all  that  affected  you. 

Mr.  Weston.  I  cannot  give  you  an  answer  to  that,  and  have  no 
real  information. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Mr.  Chairman,  in  view  of  the  fact  that  this 
outline  draft  was  prepared  for  use  in  the  examination  of  Mr.  Irenee 
du  Pont,  I  suggest  that  we  adjourn  now. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  The  committee  will  stand  recessed  until  10 
o'clock  tomorrow  morning. 

(Thereupon,  the  committee  recessed  at  3 :  45  p.  m.,  until  tomorrow 
morning  at  10  o'clock,  Friday,  Dec.  7,  1934.) 


83876- 


INVESTmATION  OF  MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY 


FRIDAY,  DECEMBER  7,  1934 

United  States  Senate, 

Special  Committee  to 
Investigate  the  Munitions  Industry, 

Washington^  D.  C. 

The  hearing  was  resumed  at  10  a.  m.  in  the  Finance  Committee 
Room,  Senate  Office  Building,  pursuant  to  the  taking  of  recess, 
Senator  Gerald  P.  Nye  presiding. 

Present:  Senators  Nye  (chairman),  Vandenberg,  Barbour,  George, 
Clark,  Pope. 

Present  also :  Stephen  Raushenbush,  secretary  to  the  committee. 

FURTHER  TESTIMONY  OF  IRENEE  BIT  PONT,  LAMMOT  DU  PONT, 
A.  FELIX  DU  PONT,  K.  K.  V.  CASEY,  AND  F.  SPARRE 

sale  or  interchange  of  military  in\'entions  and  secret  processes 

(The  witnesses  were  previously  duly  sworn  by  the  chairman.) 

The  Chairman.  Let  the  committee  be  in  order. 

Senator  Vandenberg,  you  may  proceed. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Mr.  Chairman,  before  taking  up  the  evi- 
dence this  morning,  I  want  to  say  that  I  neglected  last  evening  to  in- 
sert in  the  record  a  newspaper  statement  made  by  Mr.  Julius  Klein, 
former  Assistant  Secretary  of  Commerce,  respecting  the  Department 
of  Commerce  conference.  I  think  as  a  matter  of  information  that  it 
should  be  printed  in  the  record  at  this  point. 

(The  document  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  934"  and 
is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2583.) 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Now,  Mr.  Chairman,  we  want  to  inquire 
this  morning  rather  briefly  into  the  problem  of  the  sale  or  inter- 
change of  new  military  inventions  and  secret  processes  as  between 
American  and  foreign  companies  in  connection  with  these  inter- 
national munitions  contracts. 

May  I  ask  you,  Mr.  Felix  du  Pont,  and  I  believe  you  were  at  the 
head  of  this  section  of  the  du  Pont  busine^s,  is  it  an  inevitable  part 
of  foreign  selling  that  upon  occasion  there  must  be  an  interchange  of 
inventions  and  information  respecting  new  processes  ? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  do  not  think  so ;  no. 

Senator  Vandenberg,  It  is  a  substantial  part  of  your  relationship 
over  the  years  with  your  European  colleagues ;  is  it  not  ? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  In  military  business ;  no.  It  has  been  in 
the  past. 

2425 


2426  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  am  speaking  of  the  past. 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  That  is  quite  a  while  ago,  quite  a  good 
many  years  ago.     I  cannot  give  the  exact  number. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Of  course,  in  whatever  degree  it  is  a  neces- 
sity, we  confront  a  rather  serious  problem,  because  in  effect  we  would 
be  paying  for  the  upkeep  of  a  commercial  industry  at  the  expense 
of  the  military  preparedness  of  our  own  country.  At  any  rate,  it 
is  that  phase  of  the  matter  that  it  seems  to  the  committee  important 
that  some  information  should  be  available  on. 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Senator,  it  is  quite  evident  from  what  we 
have  done  that  we  find  it  was  not  necessary,  because  we  stopped  ex- 
changing new  military  secrets  years  ago. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Let  us  see  to  what  extent  the  situation  has 
existed,  and  to  what  extent  it  still  does  or  could  exist.  Certainly  it 
has  been  a  fundamental  principle  in  the  export  policy  of  your  com- 
pany to  work  in  close  cooperation  with  I.  C.  I.,  has  it  not? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  That  is  true ;  yes. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  You  still  believe  in  the  desirability  of  that 
arrangement,  do  you  not? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  As  regards  the  chemical  industry  gener- 
ally, exclusive  of  military  business. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  You  now  definitely  exclude  the  military 
phase  from  your  response? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  If  there  has  been  a  change  in  your  policy  in 
this  aspect,  is  it  the  result  of  difficulties  which  you  have  confronted 
in  the  past,  difficulties  with  the  Government  itself? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  No,  sir. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Do  you  recall  your  trip  to  England  in  the 
spring  of  1923,  during  which  you  arranged  for  the  licensing  of  the 
Nobel  Co.,  which  is  now  the  I.  C.  I.,  on  your  patents  for  improved 
military  rifle  powder? 

Mr.  A.  Feux  du  Pont.  Yes;  I  remember  it  fairly  well. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Was  this  improved  military  rifle  powder, 
which  will  be  referred  to  hereafter  as  I.  M.  R.  powder — was  that  de- 
velopment a  pretty  important  one? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Yes;  it  was. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  want  to  read  the  first  exhibit  this  morn- 
ing, which  will  be  given  its  appropriate  number,  935.  It  is  a  cable- 
gram addressed  to  Mr.  Felix  du  Pont  while  he  was  in  London  at- 
tending this  conference  with  the  Nobel  Co.,  and  sent  to  him  from 
the  Wilmington  office. 

(The  cablegram  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  935  "  and 
appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Vandenberg  (reading)  : 

Referring  to  your  telegram  of  June  5  executive  committee  May  2,  by  resolu- 
tion, decided  that  if  Nobel  Industries  was  granted  exclusive  license  (to)  manu- 
facture I.  M.  R.  powder  for  European  country  (ies)  our  sale  would  be  so  re- 
stricted that  we  would  be  driven  out  (of)  tliat  business.  Executive  committee 
recommended  to  finance  committee  that  Nobel  Indu>:trifs  be  granted  nonexclu- 
sive license  to  manufacture  I.  M.  R.  powder  for  nominal  consideration  of  £1. 
On  May  8  finance  committee  concurred  and  by  resolution  authorized  you  to 
offer  Nobel  Industries  in  London  nonexclusive  license  for  nominal  considera 
tion  of  £1.    There  have  been  no  further  action. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2427 

This  offer  of  these  important  militar}^  powders  to  the  Nobel  Co. 
came  about  in  the  ordinary  course  of  affairs  under  the  1920  agree- 
ment between  the  two  companies,  did  it  not? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  think  so. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  suppose  the  man  who  would  be  most  fa- 
miliar with  your  foreign  powder  arrangements  would  be  Colonel 
Taylor,  would  it  not? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  With  our  foreign  powder  arrangements? 
It  was  his  business  to  sell  in  Europe  and  to  get  his  orders  from  the 
home  office. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  And  to  keep  you  advised  respecting  the 
general  situation  ? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Dr.  Sparre.  Senator,  I  believe  I  know  as  much  as  anybody,  if  not 
more  than  anybody,  about  the  foreign  patent  business. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  will  be  very  glad  to  remember  that,  Dr. 
Sparre,  as  we  proceed. 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator.  I  believe  I  am  perhaps  more  familiar  with 
the  details  of  this  whole  thing. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  am  delighted  that  we  have  so  much  expert 
testimony  available  this  morning.  We  certainly  ought  to  be  able  to 
get  all  the  facts. 

Now,  referring  back  to  the  fact  that  Colonel  Taylor  is  representing 
you  upon  the  Continent  at  this  time,  and  having  in  mind  the  confer- 
ence which  you,  Mr.  Felix  du  Pont,  are  having  in  London  with  Nobel 
respecting  the  license  for  I.  M.  R.  powder,  I  call  your  attention  to  one 
paragraph  in  Colonel  Taylor's  letter  of  June  9,  1923,  which  I  do  not 
as  yet  offer  as  an  exhibit,  but  which  I  would  be  glad  to  have  you 
refer  to,  being  Colonel  Ta^dor's  letter  of  June  9,  1923,  to  Major 
Casey. 

I  read  the  second  paragraph  : 

There  seems  to  be  no  doubt  that  military  patents  are  included  in  our  agree- 
ment with  the  English  and  that  the  only  exceptions  are  in  case  of  objections 
on  the  part  of  our  Government  or  delay  of  12  months  on  the  part  of  the 
English  to  say  whether  or  not  they  desire  to  acquire  these  patents. 

For  at  least  the  first  3  years  of  the  agreement  your  legal  depart- 
ment offered  all  patents,  including  military  patents,  automatically 
to  Nobel,  did  you  not? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  am  not  quite  sure,  Mr.  Senator,  about 
the  dates  there,  and  I  would  like  to  be  sure  of  that. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Let  us  proceed  in  the  preliminary  stages 
without  attempting  to  define  the  dates,  because  it  is  nonessential. 
In  the  preliminary  stages  of  your  contract  with  Nobel,  it  was  the 
opinion  of  your  legal  department  that  you  were  bound  to  give  them 
the  advantage  of  all  this  information,  including  military  informa- 
tion, was  it  not? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  There  was  a  period  during  our  agreement 
with  I.  C.  I.,  or  its  predecessor,  in  which  we  did  exchange  military 
patents  and  agreements. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Precisely. 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Always  subject  to  the  Government. 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator  Vandenberg 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Yes,  sir,  Mr.  Casey. 


2428  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  it  is  in  our  own  files  that  no  proposition,  even 
though  the  legal  aspect  might  make  it  clear,  that  no  proposition 
involving  a  military  powder  Avas  to  be  even  offered  to  I.  C.  I.  or  Nobel 
without  first  being  submitted  to  military  sales,  and  Government  ob- 
jection was  always  a  bar  to  anything  being  offered. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  And  you  never  offered  anything  to  which 
the  Government  objected? 

Mr.  Casey.  No;  in  this  particular  case  we  were  in  a  very  awkward 
spot.  When  this  proposition  came  up,  I  canvassed  and  found  that 
the  Ordnance  Department  of  the  Army  objected. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Will  you  permit  me  to  come  into  this  thing 
with  some  consecutive  attention  to  the  exhibits,  Major,  and  I  will  be 
more  than  happy  to  let  you  discuss  them  serially  as  we  proceed.  I 
am  establishing  for  the  moment  simply  the  initial  proposition. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  That  in  these  original  stages  of  your  con- 
nection with  Nobel,  the  predecessor  of  I.  C.  I.,  your  arrangement  did 
include  the  exchange  of  military  processes. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Subject  to  governmental  objection,  how- 
ever, Senator. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  You  mean,  in  no  instance  did  you  ever  over- 
ride governmental  objection? 

Mr.  Casey.  No. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  not. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  All  right,  we  will  come  to  that  in  a  moment. 

Now  I  want  to  read  just  one  sentence  from  the  next  letter,  dated 
June  26,  1923.  I  am  reading  from  the  fourth  paragraph  of  Major 
Casey's  letter  to  Colonel  Taylor  under  date  of  June  26,  1923,  the 
following : 

"We  learned  some  time  back  that  the  legal  department  automatically  would 
refer  patents  to  the  Nobel  Co.  as  a  matter  of  routine. 

This  simply  confirms  the  preliminary  status. 

Mr.  Casey.  Will  you  go  on  with  the  rest  of  the  sentence.  Senator? 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  would  be  very  happy  to : 

We  effectively  stopped  this  practice  by  letters  of  Mr.  A  Felix  du  Pont,  dated 
April  26,  1923,  copies  of  which  are  attached,  so  we  believe  we  will  have  no 
fnrther  trouble  in  this  connection. 

Is  there  anything  else  you  want  me  to  read  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  No,  I  think  that  is  enough. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Did  any  memljer  of  the  smokeless  powder 
department  object  to  the  licensing  of  the  Briti<h  on  I.  M.  K.  powders? 
Perhaps  Major  Casey  could  answer  it  bettor  than  anybody  else. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  did. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  You  objected? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Did  not  Colonel  Taylor  object? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Why  was  Colonel  Taylor  so  concerned  about 
the  granting  of  this  particular  Nobel  license? 

Mr.  Casey.  Perhaps  the  reason  was  a  little  different  from  mine. 
He  was  afraid  that  if  they  got  the  license  to  make  this  powder,  that 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2429 

he  would  then  run  into  competition  on  exactly  the  same  powder  that 
we  were  trying  to  sell. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Precisely. 

Mr.  Casey.  My  objection  was  entirely  different. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Before  we  go  to  yourself,  let  us  confirm 
Colonel  Taylor's  objection.  I  am  referring  to  Colonel  Taylor's 
letter  dated  July  12,  1923,  addressed  to  Major  Casey,  from  which 
I  read  the  first  paragraph,  as  follows  [reading]  : 

I  wish  to  acknowledge  receipt — 

And  so  forth. 

I  see  that  with  regard  to  our  company,  you  have  succeeded  in  gaining  our 
point  and  I  feel  sure  that  if  the  War  Department  understood  what  was  going 
on,  they  would  object  to  any  concessions  on  our  part. 

What  does  he  refer  to  when  he  says,  "  if  the  War  Department 
understood  what  was  going  on  "  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  The  answer  to  that  is  this :  The  War  Department  was 
interested  in  seeing  that  the  du  Pont  Co.  kept  facilities  alive  and 
the  "  know-how  "  for  the  manufacture  of  military  propellants  and 
explosives.  The  only  way  to  do  that  at  that  time,  with  practically 
no  Government  orders,  was  by  foreign  sales.  If  the  type  of  powder 
we  were  making  was  to  be  offered  all  over  the  world  in  direct  com- 
petition with  ours,  one  of  the  objectives  of  the  War  Department 
might  be  inter f erred  with,  that  is,  we  might  not  be  making  the  prod- 
ucts, and  that  is  ail  they  were  interested  in.  That  is  what  is  meant 
by  that  statement. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Colonel  Taylor's  further  reasoning,  which 
probably  should  be  submitted  for  the  record,  because  it  is  very  lucid, 
being  contained  in  the  original  letter  of  June  9,  1929,  which  was  the 
second  letter  which  we  had  this  morning.  I  think  I  will  read  from 
the  second  page,  beginning  8  or  10  sentences  from  the  top.  Colonel 
Taylor  is  now  discussing  this  proposed  release  of  I.  M.  R.  informa- 
tion to  Nobel's : 

The  British  foreign-sales  organization  for  military  explosives  consists  entirely 
of  a  Mr.  Smith,  who  lives  at  Vienna,  and  who  is  also  charged  with  conducting 
the  negotiations  between  the  British  and  the  Tchecoslovak  Explosives,  Ltd.,  and 
one  of  the  members  of  their  London  oflSce  who  handles  correspondence  on  con- 
tinental military  sales.  Before  the  war  the  British  had  an  agreement  with 
Rothweiler,  handled  all  their  sales,  all  their  military  business  on  the  continent. 
The  British  kept  out  and  I  believe  divided  the  profits  with  Rothweiler.  The 
man  in  charge  of  Rothweiler  sales  on  the  continent  was  Herr  Philip,  at  pres- 
ent managing  director  of  the  Nobel  Dynamite  of  Vienna  and  holder  of  16  per- 
cent of  the  sales  in  Czechoslovak  Explosives,  Ltd.  He  is  the  most  experienced 
continental  military  salesman  in  the  old  German  organization. 

What  is  the  "  old  German  organization  ?  " 

Mr.  Casey.  That  I  do  not  know. 

Senator  Vandenberg  (continuing  with  the  letter)  : 

The  Czechoslovak  Explosives,  Ltd.,  is  a  company  In  which  the  shares  are 
held  :  52  percent  check  ;  16  percent  Nobel  British  ;  16  percent  Herr  Philip — 

what  nationality  would  that  be  ? 
Mr.  Casey.  Which  one? 

Senator  Vandenberg.  The  third  one  here,  Herr  Philip. 
Mr.  Casey.  He  is  the  man  I  just  mentioned,  is  he  not? 
Senator  Vandenberg.  Yes,  sir. 


2430  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  know  his  nationality. 
Senator  Vandenberg  (reading) : 
Sixteen  percent  Societe  Centrale  de  Dynamite. 

Is  that  French  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  The  name  sounds  like  it.  I  am  not  familiar  with  all 
these  foreign  firms. 

Senator  Vandenberg  (reading) : 

This  last  factory  lias  tlie  monopoly  of  exportation,  importation  of  explosives 
in  Czechoslovakia  and  they  are  building  a  factory  with  the  idea  that  it  will  be 
large  enough  to  supply  all  the  continent  and  take  on  to  itself  the  old  military 
explosive  business  formerly  held  by  the  Germans.  This  factory  is  largely  under 
British  control  and  the  Mr.  Smith  above  mentioned  is  the  person  to  whom  this 
control  is  handled.  I  believe  it  is  the  British  intention  that  all  continental 
military  business  shall  go  to  this  Czechoslovak  Explosive,  Ltd.,  who  have  in 
their  territory  continental  Europe.  I  believe  the  British  themselves  will  make 
no  attempt  to  sell  directly  on  the  continent  as  they  have  not  a  personnel  com- 
petent for  this  work  and  expect  to  have  this  thing  handled  entirely  from  Czecho- 
slovakia. I  also  believe  that  due  to  the  fact  that  the  Balkan  states  are  gradu- 
ally changing  nitroglycerine  powders  to  nitrocellulose  powders  they  are  induced 
by  the  Czechoslovak  Explosive,  Ltd.,  to  undertake  the  manufacture  of  nitro- 
cellulose powder. 

Now  why  do  the  British  want  us  to  cede  them  the  patents  for  I.  M.  R.? 
Either  to  show  the  Czechoslovaks  how  to  make  our  powder  or  to  manufacture 
powder  under  our  patents  to  be  sold  by  the  Czechoslovak  organization  or  to  keep 
us  out  of  Europe  so  as  not  to  interfere  with  the  development  of  the  Czechoslovak 
Co.    I  believe  this  to  be  the  key  of  the  whole  matter. 

So  that  Colonel  Taylor  was  seriously  concerned  over  the  possi- 
bility that  the  prospects  of  the  I.  M.  R.  powder  formula  might  get 
into  the  hands  of  a  Czechoslovakian  company,  run  by  "  the  most 
experienced  continental  military  salesman  in  the  old  German 
organization  "  with  a  disadvantage  to  your  company  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Do  you  know  of  any  other  reasons  that 
Colonel  Taylor  might  have  had,  or  any  other  reasons  which  you 
might  have  had,  for  thinking  that  this  would  be  an  unfortunate 
arrangement  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Beyond  the  viewpoint  of  Taylor's  as  affecting  sales  in 
Europe,  where  he  was  giving  quite  considerable  thought  to  this  being 
an  attempt  to  force  us  out  of  Europe,  there  was  really  a  great  deal 
of  objection  on  the  part  of  European  manufacturers,  in  view  of  the 
reputation  which  du  Pont  had  made  during  the  war.  He  also  nat- 
urally concurred  in  my  objections. 

Now  my  objections,  it  later  on  developed,  did  not  hold  very  much 
weight  in  one  respect,  and  that  was  as  far  as  England  was  concerned, 
but  I  objected  to  giving  anything  out  to  which  there  was  Government 
objection. 

Here  is  the  situation  which  developed 

Senator  Vandenberg.  The  situation  will  develop  as  we  proceed, 
and  suppose  you  address  your  discussion  to  it  as  we  proceed  with  the 
exhibits. 

Mr.  Casey.  All  right.  Senator. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  You  were  about  to  say,  no  doubt,  that  you 
had  consulted  the  War  and  Navy  Departments  with  regard  to 
licensing  the  production  of  these  powders. 

Mr.  Casey.  Not  the  Navy  Department.  The  War  Department  is 
the  only  one  interested  in  small  arms. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2431 

Senator  Vandenbekg.  You  did  consult  the  War  Department. 

Who  was  Mr.  Henning? 

Mr.  Casey.  He  was  technical  director  of  military  sales. 

Senator  Vandenbekg.  I  want  to  read  from  Mr.  Henning's  letter  of 
June  21,  1923,  without  offering  the  letter  as  an  exhibit,  because  there 
are  some  sections  of  it  which  it  is  not  necessary  to  enter  in  the 
record. 

I  will  read  the  first  sentence,  with  some  deletions.  This  is  Mr. 
Henning,  your  assistant  director  of  military  sales,  reporting  upon 
his  conference  with  the  War  Department  in  Washington  (reading)  : 

1.  Discussed  the  following  subjects  with  officers  and  representatives  of  the 
Ordnance  Department 

1.  Ordnance  Department  policy  with  respect  to  supplying  information  to 
British  on  du  Pont  I.  M.  R.  powder. 

Talked  this  over  briefly  with  Major  Hardigg  and  Dr.  C.  G.  Storm,  simply 
setting  forth  the  early  history  and  more  recent  facts.  In  the  absence  of  General 
Williams  the  subject  was  referred  to  General  Peirce  for  decision,  who  called 
General  Ruggles  and  Major  Wilhelm  in  for  conference.  Major  Hardigg  and 
Wilhelm  stated  the  case  to  General  Peirce,  it  being  their  concensus  of  opinion 
that  it  was  a  subject  of  considerable  importance,  and  in  which  the  Bureau  of 
Ordnance,  Navy,  was  also  interested.  Following  recent  precedent,  it  was  their 
suggestion  that  no  information  be  given.  This  comes  about  partly  by  reason  of 
the  action  of  the  British  in  refusing  to  give  the  Ordnance  Department  any 
information  on  subjects  in  which  the  British  Navy  is  interested.  *  *  * 
General  Peirce  first  inquired  carefully  as  to  the  use  and  status  of  du  Pont 
I,  M.  R.  powder  as  a  service  propellant. 

General  Peirce  stated  that  it  was  their  policy  to  carefully  consider  giving  us 
every  assistance  and  encouragement  for  staying  in  the  production  of  military 
explosives.  Hence  he  did  not  want  to  handicap  us  in  any  development  work 
that  would  aid  us.  It  was  the  decision,  however,  that  the  Ordnance  Depart- 
ment could  not  sanction  our  giving  information  to  tic  British  at  this  time,  on 
our  service  propellent  for  ammunition  intended  for  aircraft  armament.  Gen- 
eral Peirce  was  of  the  opinion  that  Admiral  McVey  would  take  a  more  positive 
stand  on  this  subject. 

As  a  matter  of  courtesy  to  the  Bureau  of  Ordnance,  I  discussed  the  conference 
briefly  with  Commander  Courts.  As  expected,  the  Bureau  of  Ordnance  takes 
a  more  positive  stand  on  this  subject. 

Now,  simply  to  confirm  the  attitude  of  the  Government 

Senator  Clark.  Do  I  understand  from  this  that  you  informed  the 
Government  that  unless  you  were  permitted  to  sell  your  secret  proc- 
esses to  another  government,  that  you  were  going  out  of  the  business  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  see  any  indication  of  that  whatsoever,  Senator. 

Senator  Vandenbekg.  I  think  this  trends  in  a  different  direction, 
Senator,  which  will  appear  shortly. 

Now,  I  want  to  confirm  the  attitude  of  the  Government  respecting 
the  release  of  this  new  and  secret  militarj'^  powder  process  to  the 
British,  or  to  aiiy  other  foreign  country. 

Dr.  Spakre.  Senator,  pardon  nie,  but  it  was  not  secret.  I  am 
sorry  to  interrupt  you,  but  you  have  used  the  word  "  secret  "  so  often 
that  I  have  to  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  it  was  not  secret. 
Pardon  me  if  I  may  explain  the  situation  at  this  point,  because  it  is 
very  important. 

Senator  Vandenbekg.  Yes,  sir. 

Dr.  Spakre,  During  the  war,  that  is,  after  the  United  States 
entered  the  war  in  1917,  and  during  the  war  period,  we  were  under 
instructions  from  the  administration  to  give  to  the  allied  countries 
all  our  information  of  any  military  value ;  as  a  matter  of  fact,  every- 
thing which  we  possessed. 


2432  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Senator  Vandenberg.  That  is  during  the  war  ? 

Dr.  Spakre.  And  we  gave  to  the  allied  munitions  departnients, 
and  so  forth,  everything  that  we  had.  For  instance,  I  myself  was 
sent  abroad  on  a  military  commission  appointed  by  the  Chief  of 
Ordnance.  As  a  member  of  that  commission  I  went,  together  with 
Army  officers  and  others,  and  inspected  British  military  factories, 
and  we  exchanged  information  with  the  British  munitions  depart- 
ment. At  the  conclusion  of  that  visit  I  went  to  France  and  in- 
spected all  the  French  powder  works,  shell  works,  and  so  forth,  and 
all  the  information  which  I  collected  was  then  transmitted  to  the 
Chief  of  Ordnance.  The  I.  M.  R.  information  was  given  to  the 
allied  governments.  There  is  no  secret  about  it.  They  got  all  our 
information  under  instructions  from  our  own  administration. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  If  they  knew  all  about  it,  what  is  all  this 
about  ? 

Dr.  Sparre.  That  is  what  I  wanted  to  tell  you.  This  appears  like 
it  was  a  secret  thing,  but  there  is  no  secret  about  it. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  They  had  a  patent  on  it. 

Dr.  Sparre.  There  were  some  patents. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Do  you  mean  to  say  the  British  could  manu- 
facture the  I.  M.  R.  powder  without  your  consent? 

Dr.  Sparre.  They  had  gotten  blueprints  of  suitable  plans,  com- 
plete specifications,  all  information  about  the  thing.  The  only  thing 
which  we  had  left  would  be  such  foreign  patents  as  there  might  be, 
but  they  did  not  amount  to  much,  did  not  amount  to  very  much,  be- 
cause the  patent  situation  was  not  as  satisfactory^  in  foreign  coun- 
tries as  it  was  in  our  own  country.  I  do  not  think  that  those  patents 
were  of  any  substantial  value.  But,  in  any  event,  there  was  no  secret 
about  it,  the  complete  information  was  given. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Apparently  the  release  of  this  privilege 
which  involved  a  very  serious  question  with  respect  to  your  rela- 
tionships with  Nobel  also  in  your  judgment  involved  your  relation- 
ship with  the  United  States  Government  in  1923. 

Dr.  Sparre.  Surely. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  So  let  us  follow  through  and  see  to  what 
extent  our  relationship  is  involved. 

Dr.  Sparre.  Yes,  but.  Senator,  please  don't  hold  it  secret  informa- 
tion. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  All  right.  I  will  use  the  exact  language  of 
our  own  War  Department  in  describing  the  situation,  and  I  will  use 
it  in  the  next  exhibit,  which  is  a  letter  of  June  27,  1923,  from  W.  S. 
Pierce,  Acting  Chief  of  Ordnance,  to  the  military  sales  division  of 
the  du  Pont  Co.  at  "Wilmington : 

It  is  the  understanding  of  tliis  office  tliat  you  are  in  receipt  of  requests  from 
foreign  sources  for  detailed  information  concei-ning  the  technical  process  in- 
volved in  the  manufacture  of  your  improved  military  rifle  powders. 

In  view  of  the  fact  that  powders  of  this  type  are  employed  in  certain  stand- 
ard service  ammunition  used  not  only  by  the  United  States  Army  but  also  by 
the  Navy  and  Marine  Corps,  the  Ordnance  Department  believes  that  the 
methods  involved  in  manufacture  should  be  regarded  as  confidential  military 
information. 

So  at  least  the  Chief  of  Ordnance  of  the  United  States  Army 
thought  there  was  something  in  connection  with  I.  M.  R.  powder  that 
you  could  protect  if  you  wanted  to. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2433 

Dr.  Sparre.  We  have  given  all  of  the  information  to  the  Board. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  All  right.  We  are  proceeding  with  the  rec- 
ord, and  there  is  an  amazing  lot  of  important  attention  being  given 
to  an  inconsequential  thing,  if  it  is  inconsequential,  it  seems  to  me. 
At  any  rate,  let  us  continue  to  establish  the  facts. 

I  refer  to  the  next  exhibit.  In  this  instance,  it  is  of  sufficient  im- 
portance so  that  you  even  hear  from  the  Navy  in  connection  with  it, 
which  is  unusual  in  your  contacts,  so  that  evidently  from  the  view- 
point of  our  own  Government,  there  was  something  of  relative  mag- 
nitude involved,  rather  than  anything  else.  I  read  the  next  exhibit, 
which  will  be  properly  marked. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  936  " 
and  appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Vandenberg  (reading)  : 

MEMORANUUit 

To :  Chief  of  Ordnance,  War  Department.  Washington.  D.  C. 
Subject :  Agreement  with  tlie  Du  Pont  Co.  regarding  improved  military  rifle 
powder. 

The  Bureau  of  Ordnance  concurs  in  the  belief  of  the  Ordnance  Department, 
expressed  in  its  letter  of  June  27,  1923,  to  the  Du  Pont  Co.,  that  the  technical 
processes  and  the  methods  of  manufacture  of  improved  military  rifle  powders 
should  be  regarded  as  confidential  military  Information. 

Chas.  B.  B.  McVay,  Jr., 

Chief  of  Btireau. 

So  as  the  matter  stands  up  to  date  on  the  face  of  these  exhibits, 
you  gave  the  Nobel  Co.,  did  you  not,  the  right  to  manufacture  a 
powder  which  was  the  standard  propellant  in  both  branches  of  the 
United  States  service  for  almost  all  types  of  rifle  and  aircraft  am- 
munition, and  did  so  over  the  objections  of  both  the  War  and  Navy 
Departments? 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator,  you  assured  me  a  few  moments  ago  that  you 
Avould  develop  this  thing  gradually.  At  that  time  I  tried  to  tell  you 
the  story.  Now  you  are  not  developing  it  gradually  if  you  make  the 
statement  at  that  point 

Senator  Vandenbp:rg.  I  do  not  want  to  prejudice  it,  Major.  I  am 
onlji'  seeking  the  facts. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  believe  you  do.  Senator. 

Senator  Vandeni5erg.  You  mean  which?  That  you  do  not  think 
I  am  trying  to  prejudge  it  or  trying  to  get  the  facts? 

Mr.  Casey.  No ;  I  want  to  give  you  the  facts. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Now,  let  us  see  whether  or  not  the  exhibits 
will  not  permit  you  to  develop  the  thing  chronologically.  It  is  only 
facts  that  I  want,  Major. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  appreciate  that,  Senator.  By  the  way.  Senator,  in 
order  to  bring  you  up  to  date 

Senator  Vandenberg.  What  do  you  mean  by  up  to  date  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  By  what  is  going  to  follow,  may  I  give  you  the  early 
history  of  the  I.  M.  R.  powder? 

Senator  Vandenberg.  If  you  consider  it  pertinent. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  it  is. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  All  right. 

Mr.  Casey.  I.  M.  R.  powder  was  developed  after  about  10  or  15 
years  research,  I  would  say,  either  in  the  latter  part  of  1913  or  early 


2434  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

in  1914.  The  first  powder  of  that  type  that  we  made  was  to  fit 
certain  modifications  that  Admiral  Bedbeder,  who  at  that  time  was 
head  of  the  Argentine  Naval  Mission  in  New  York,  wanted.  He 
w^as  considering  certain  charges  in  the  Argentine  Mauser  rifle,  and 
in  order  to  give  him  what  he  required  in  direct  competition  with 
the  German  progressive  rifle  powder,  this  powder,  as  the  result  of 
15  years  experimental  work,  was  found  to  oe  the  only  powder  suit- 
able for  the  purpose. 

At  about  that  time  we  had  already  started  an  erosion  test — when 
I  say  we,  I  mean  the  Government  and  ourselves — to  determine  in 
connection  with  the  high  velocity  30-06  rifle,  the  different  types 
of  powder,  and  their  relative  erosive  effect,  and  in  that  test  they 
used  cordite,  exite,  and  I  think  the  French  powder,  some  Koln- 
Kottweiler,  vrhich  was  imported  in  this  country  by  the  Government, 
and  called  Chilworth,  because  it  was  bought  through  the  Chilworth 
Co.  in  England.  We  had  also  some  Argentine  powder,  and  I  think 
some  Brazilian  powder. 

Those  powders  were  being  put  through  the  test  at  Springfield 
Arsenal.  In  the  meantime,  after  the  tests  had  actually  started,  this 
I.  M.  E,.  powder  came  along,  so  even  though  the  poAvder  was  not 
suitable  to  the  Springfield  rifle,  being  too  slow  burning,  we  re- 
quested the  Government  to  allow  that  powder  to  also  enter  the 
test.  As  I  say,  it  was  not  suited  in  the  particular  granulation  to 
the  Springfield  rifle. 

That  is  the  early  development.  If  it  had  not  been  for  developing 
that  powder,  w^e  would  not  have  been  able  to  fill  the  requirements  for 
the  British  and  Russian  and  certain  other  rifles.  It  was  not  needed 
for  the  French  rifle.     This  was  after  the  European  war  broke. 

In  the  meantime,  the  Government,  because  of  ballistic  character- 
istics of  the  30-06  cartridge,  did  not  need  that  powder.  It  was  not 
until  after  the  United  States  had  entered  the  war  that  they  discovered 
for  special  ammunition,  such  as  tracer  and  incendiary  the  regular 
pyro  D.G.  30-caliber  powder,  which  was  the  regular  standard  U.S. 
powder,  could  not  be  used,  and  I  believe  the  Government  throughout 
the  entire  period  of  the  war  only  bought  possibly  in  the  neighborhood 
of  2  or  3  or  4  million  pounds  of  this  I.M.R.  powder.  That  was  the 
only  place  they  used  it. 

In  the  meantime,  the  allied  Governments,  England  and  Russia, 
were  both  using  it  in  tremendous  quantities.  That  is  the  only  type 
of  rifle  powder  they  bought  from  us.  That  was  the  situation  at  that 
time.  As  Dr.  Sparre  has  just  explained  to  you,  we  were  required  to 
give  all  of  the  information  regarding  the  manufacture  of  this  powder 
to  the  British. 

Senator  Vandenburg.  This  is,  during  the  war? 

Mr.  Casey.  This  is,  during  the  war.  In  the  meantime,  a  plant  was 
actually  being  built.  You  may  remember  that  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont 
referred  at  a  previous  hearing  to  the  fact  that  they  discovered  instead 
of  importing  raw  material  and  making  their  own  powder  it  was 
better  to  import  the  powder  because  of  the  tonnage  factor.  There 
was  the  situation  when  we  came  along  after  the  war. 

In  the  meantime,  experimental  work  had  been  started  in  1917  at 
the  Bordenbrook  Reservoir  outside  of  Springfield  to  try  and  get  a 
bullet  and  a  combination  of  bullet  and  case  that  would  ffive  them  a 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2435 

more  effective  ammunition.  It  was  discovered  that  the  tables  in  the 
bhie  book  of  the  Springfield  rifle  giving  an  extreme  range  of  5,100 
yards  were  simply  paper  figures;  that  the  extreme  range  of  the 
Springfield  rifle  was  around  3,500  to  3,600  yards. 

At  the  command  of  the  commanding  officer  there  I  went  up  to 
assistant  Major  Wilhelm  at  the  Reservoir,  to  help  solve  this  problem. 
That  was  in  connection  with  the  boat-tail  bullet  which  the  Swiss  had 
at  Camp  Perry  in  1913  and  which  excited  a  great  deal  of  comment 
among  the  competing  teams  during  those  matches. 

So  an  attempt  was  made  in  the  early  time  of  Bordenbrook  Reser- 
voir to  see  if  we  could  not  develop  a  boat-tail  bullet  along  the  lines 
of  the  Swiss,  because  it  was  found  that  the  Swiss  bullet  at  that  time, 
even  fired  in  our  own  case,  would  outrange  ours  almost  2  to  1. 

This  work  was  intensely  interesting,  to  such  an  extent  that  they 
then  moved  down  to  Florida  to  continue  the  work,  and  that  work  was 
then  being  continued  along  the  beaches  at  Daytona  and  Miami  and 
later  on  when  the  Infantry  School  at  Benning  was  established  the 
work  continued  there. 

Even  then  at  that  time  and  for  a  couple  of  years  after  the  war  it 
was  not  still  the  service  propellant.  It  was  not  until  they  found  it 
possible  to  make  a  satisfactory  boat-tail  bullet  in  this  country,  that 
they  found  they  were  up  against  another  obstacle.  They  were  only 
buying  this  I.  M.  R.  powder  from  us  in  small  quantities,  five  or  ten 
thousand  pounds  at  a  time,  which  means  very  expensive  production. 
We  also  found  that  the  Infantry  Board  which  was  continually  in 
session  at  Camp  Benning  considered  they  would  not  be  able  to  get 
the  desired  velocity  the}'  wanted,  the  reason  being  price,  that  they  had 
the  old  pyro  D.  G.  30  caliber,  which  had  cost  them  probably  during 
the  war,  50  or  60  cents  a  pound,  and,  of  course,  this  powder  was  cost- 
ing them  90  cents  a  pound.  So  I  went  to  General  Williams  and  I 
said: 

It  seems  to  me  a  serious  problem  of  design  is  being  interfered  with,  because  of 
an  unnatural  position  on  price. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  What  year  was  this  ? 
Mr.  Casey.  This  is  in  that  period  of  1921  and  1922. 
Senator  Vandenberg.  Yes. 

Mr.  Casey.  The  Infantry  school  was  formally  opened  in  the  fall 
of  1920,  so  that  will  give  you  an  idea  of  when  this  occurred. 
Senator  Vandenberg.  All  right. 
Mr.  Casey.  So  I  said  to  General  Williams : 

We  haven't  the  slit^litest  idea  on  a  peace-time  production  basis  what  this 
powder  is  apt  to  cost,  but  we  believe  if  you  will  give  us  an  order  for  100,000 
pounds,  to  let  us  make  a  run,  we  will  take  a  chance  and  sell  it  to  you  for  70  cents 
a  pound. 

That  changed  the  picture.  The  result  was  that  it  was  then 
adopted,  around  1921  or  1922,  in  connection  with  the  boat-tail  bullet. 
But  in  the  meantime  Russia  and  England  knew  all  about  it.  They 
had  bought  millions  and  millions  of  pounds  of  it  for  their  service 
cartridges  during  the  war. 

Now,  that  will  bring  you  approximately  up  to  date. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  All  right.  Now,  why  did  Mr.  Henning  go 
to  the  War  Department  in  June  1923  to  inquire  whether  the  Ameri- 
can Government  had  any  objections  to  your  arrangement  with  Nobel? 


2436  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Casey.  To  tell  you  perfectly  frankly,  Senator,  because  I  ob- 
jected. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  And  I  assume  that  when  he  made  this  in- 
quiry from  the  War  Department  it  was  on  the  theory  that  if  the  War 
Department  said  it  did  object 

Mr.  Casey.  That  Ave  would  not  have  to  turn  it  over. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  That  you  would  observe  the  War  Depart- 
ment's viewpoint? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Did  3^our  company  observe  the  War  Depart- 
ment's viewpoint? 

Mr,  Casey.  Now,  if  you  will  i:;o  ahead  you  will  find  out  what 
happened. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  am  going  ahead,  but,  as  a  matter  of  fact, 
it  did  not  observe  the  War  Department's  viewpoint ;  isn't  that  so  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  You  are  asking  me  to  go  ahead.  Now,  let  us  move 
ahead.  Senator. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  think  that  is  a  fair  observation.  We  will 
move  ahead  together. 

Mr.  Casey.  All  right. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Now,  we  are  in  this  position,  before  we  move 
ahead,  so  let  us  start  at  the  same  point.  Your  representative  has. 
been  to  the  War  Department  to  find  out  whether  the  American  Gov- 
ernment has  any  objection  to  your  licensing  Nobel  in  respect  to 
I,  M.  E..  powder.  The  War  Department  has  not  only  notified  your 
Mr.  Henning,  and  he  has  reported  to  you  their  objections,  but  in 
addition,  you  have  the  written  word  of  the  Acting  Chief  of  Ordnance 
of  the  United  States  and  you  have  the  written  word  of  Admiral 
McVay,  Chief  of  Bureau  of  the  Navj^^  Department,  that  there  is  em- 
phatic objection  on  the  part  of  the  United  States  Government  to  this 
arrangement. 

Mr.  Casey.  Right. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  That  is  the  point  at  which  we  noAv  take  up 
the  trail. 

Mr.  Casey.  At  that  point;  yes. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  This  decision  by  the  War  Department  evi- 
dently confirms  Colonel  Taylor's  prophecy  of  Jul}'  12,  1923,  when  he 
wrote  you  from  Paris,  as  I  have  previously  read : 

I  see  that  with  regard  to  our  company  you  have  succeeded  in  saining  our 
point,  and  I  feel  sure  that  if  the  War  Department  understood  \\])a{  was  going 
on,  they  would  ohject  to  any  concessions  on  our  part. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  I  have  already  answered  that,  Senator. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Yes,  And  evidently  the  War  Department 
did  understand  what  was  going  on, 

Mr,  Casey,  Yes ;  I  think  we  told  them  pretty  thoroughly. 

Senator  Vandenberg,  You  told  them,  and  then  they  told  you 
something. 

Mr.  Casey.  Naturally, 

Senator  Vandenberg,  Did  this  feeling  of  apprehension  with  re- 
gard to  exchanges  of  technical  information  with  Nobel  continue  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  If  you  let  me  anticipate  the  same  as  you  are  doing,  all 
right,  we  will  just  move  along  then.  This  is  the  only  case  that  ever 
came  up. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2437 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Well,  we  will  take  the  exhibit.  We  will 
take  Major  Casey's  letter  addressed  to  Mr.  Felix  du  Pont,  general 
manager,  on  April  14,  1924.  I  read  at  the  moment  only  the  fifth 
paragraph,  in  which  Major  Casey  is  recommending: 

That  no  agreement  be  made  with  Nobel  whereby  we  will  refrain  from  en- 
deavoring to  sell  military  products  in  any  foreign  country. 

Mr.  Casey.  Which  paragraph  is  that? 

Senator  Vandenberg.  It  is  marked  "  number  4." 

Mr.  Casey.  I  thought  you  said  5,  Senator. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  It  is  the  fifth  paragraph,  but  it  is  num- 
bered 4. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Now,  on  the  second  page  we  find  your  rea- 
sons, Major  Casey,  and  I  will  read  those. 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator,  wouldn't  it  be  probably  advisable  to  really 
read  the  whole  thing? 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  will  be  very  glad  to,  if  you  desire.  You 
mean  the  entire  letter? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  All  right.  This  is  Major  Casey  writing  to 
General  Manager  Felix  du  Pont  under  date  of  April  14,  1924,  on  the 
subject  of  military  sales  in  foreign  countries  [reading]  : 

After  liaving  made  a  very  careful  analysis  of  all  the  data  in  our  files  on  the 
Nobel  agreement,  and  a  thorough  study  of  compelition  which  we  have  experi- 
enced in  foreign  countries,  particularly  in  Europe  during  the  past  3  years,  I  feel 
that  it  is  in  order  for  me  to  present  to  you  my  recommendations,  to  which  I 
hope  you  will  give  due  consideration  in  discussing  military  business  with  Nobel 
ofiiciais.     My  recommendations  are  as  follows : 

1.  That  military  propellants  and  explosives  be  specifically  exempted  from  the 
patents  and  secret-process  agreement  in  the  same  way  as  in  the  case  of  the 
South  American  pool  agreement. 

2.  That  the  temporai-y  arrangement  regarding  Argentine  and  other  South 
American  military  business  be  terminated  as  of  July  1,  1924. 

3.  That  the  arrangement  for  joint  construction  of  plants  in  foreign  countries 
for  military  material  be  discontinued. 

4.  Tliat  no  agreement  be  made  with  Nobel  whereby  we  will  refrain  from  en- 
deavoring to  sell  militai-y  products  in  any  foreign  country. 

5.  That  no  agreements  be  entered  into  with  any  manufacturer  for  the  ex- 
change of  information  on  military  propellants  or  explosives. 

6.  That  no  information  be  exchanged  concerning  prices  of  military  propellants 
or  explosives  and  that  no  division  of  profits  be  made  on  military  business. 

I  might  interrupt  to  say  that  I  think  these  are  fairly  sensible  recom- 
mendations, Major. 

Mr,  Casey.  Well,  they  were  made,  anyway. 
Senator  Vandenberg  (reading)  : 

My  reasons  for  making  the  above  recommendations  are  as  follows : 
Our  competitors  in  Europe  on  military  business  are  German,  Italian,  and 
French  interests,  tlie  most  successful  competitors  being  the  Germans.  If  we 
were  to  refrain  from  soliciting  military  business  abroad,  we  would  leave  the 
field  fi'ee  for  a  German,  French,  and  Italian  monopoly,  because  Great  Britain's 
position  in  European  politics  is  such  that  an  English  concern  would  find  it  very 
difficult  to  secure  business.  It  is  very  doubtful  as  to  whether  Nobel  could  hold 
the  customers  wliich  we  have  gotten  to  date  among  the  European  nations.  Our 
success  in  securing  business  is  mainly  due  to  the  fact  that  we  are  an  American 
concern  whose  products  enjoy  an  excellent  i-epntation.  In  Europe,  the  prestige 
of  the  name  dn  Pont  was  estalili'slied  through  onr  military-powder  manufacture 
during  the  late  war.  nnd  it  is  only  natural  that  we  are  looked  upon  as  a 
source  of  suiiply.  inwticularly  by  European  states  which  do  not  manuf actum 
their  own  requirements. 


2438  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Now,  I  want  to  emphasize  the  next  two  paragraphs,  which  are  the 
ones  I  started  to  read  and  which  are  pertinent  to  my  line  of  inquiry 
[reading]  : 

We  cannot  act  in  good  faith  with  om*  Government  if  we  contract  to  exchange 
information  on  military  propellaut.s  with  a  foreign  concern.  Both  the  Army  and 
Navy  have  indicated  that  they  are  desirous  of  keeping  secret  development  work 
which  we  may  do  for  them.  If  we  were  to  agree  to  exchange  information  with 
any  foreign  firm  and  at  the  same  time  accept  help  in  selling  powder  abroad 
from  our  own  Army  and  Navy,  we  would  create  a  condition  which  would  at 
some  time  or  other  bring  discredit  upon  us. 

It  is  probable  that  in  the  next  few  years  Congress  will  fully  investigate  all 
war  contracts  and  particularly  the  construction  of  Old  Hickory.  Sucli  an 
investigation  will  bring  about  the  scrutiny  of  our  military  sales  in  general. 
If  Congress  were  to  ascertain  that  the  Army  and  Navy  both  helped  du  Pont  in 
securing  military  business  from  abroad  and  if  it  could  be  shown  that  the 
du  Pont  Co.  had  a  working  agi'eement  with  a  foreign  powder  manufacturer, 
the  conclusion  could  be  drawn  that  the  du  Pont  Co.  was  acting  in  bad  faith 
with  our  own  Government.  Congress  would  have  an  opporunity  to  brand  us 
as  traitors. 

We  have  been  successful  in  securing  military  business  in  foreign  countries 
without  a  price-fixing  agreement  with  any  of  our  competitors.  We  have  fre- 
quently been  able  to  secure  business  although  our  quotations  were  higher  than 
competitors.  This  was  probable  due  to  the  fact  th;it  the  customer  decided  to 
develop  a  source  of  military  supply  in  America  and  our  prestige  and  reputation 
enabled  us  to  get  the  business.  Even  with  unfavorable  foreign -exchange  rates 
we  are  competing  with  foreign  concerns  on  newly  made  powder.  When  the 
exchange  rates  improve  we  will  undoubtedly  be  placed  in  a  more  favorable 
position.  Therefore,  in  competing  for  foreign  business,  success  will  come  to 
the  firm  which  can  make  the  best  product  and  which  enjoys  the  best  reputa- 
tion. The  neutrality  of  America  in  European  politics,  and  America  as  an 
abundant  supply  of  raw  materials  are  factors  which  enable  an  American  concern 
to  secure  foreign  military  business. 

Now,  referring  back  to  the  two  middle  paragraphs  on  this  second 
page,  it  is  the  expression  of  your  opinion  that  it  would  not  be  an 
act  of  good  faith  for  you  to  accept  cooperation  from  the  Government 
of  the  United  States  in  the  promotion  of  your  sales;  and  you  have 
had  that  cooperation,  have  you  not,  very  generously  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  It  was  your  opinion  that  you  could  not  be 
in  that  contact  with  the  Government  and  at  the  same  time  be  per- 
mitting the  foreign  use  of  your  military  processes  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  No;  that  is  a  fine  point  there.  Senator.  Don't  think 
that  I  am  quibbling.  It  is  not  a  question  of  permitting  manufacture, 
but  a  question  of  exchanging  information. 

Senator  Barbour.  What  would  be  the  nature  of  the  information? 
Wouldn't  it  be  the  matter  of  processes? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  That  is  the  point. 

Mr.  Casey.  Because  we  will  come  to  that  question  of  manufacture 
later. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Yes,  we  are  coming  to  that.  It  is  summed 
up  in  your  sentence: 

If  Congress  were  to  ascertain  that  the  Army  and  Navy  both  helped  du  Pont  in 
.securing  military  business  from  abroad,  and  if  it  could  be  shown  that  du  Pont 
Co.  had  a  working  agreement  with  a  foreign  powder  manufacturer,  the  con- 
clusion could  bo  drawn  that  the  du  Pont  Co.  was  acting  in  bad  faith  with  our 
own  Government. 

That  sums  up  your  feeling  on  the  matter? 
Mr.  Casey.  Yqs. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2439 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Was  this  recommendation  put  into  effect? 

Mr.  Casey.  This  recommendation  was  submitted  to  my  chief.  I 
believe  this  recommendation  had  a  great  deal  to  do  with  the  modifi- 
cation of  the  agreement  which  took  place  and  was  eventually  signed 
on  January  1,  1926. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Now,  this  memorandum 

Mr.  Casey.  Not  completely,  however. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  This  memorandum  is  dated  April  14,  1924. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  You  did  make  an  agreement,  did  you  not,  in 
London,  in  November  1925,  18  months  later,  an  agreement  to  co- 
operate on  military  sales — I  mean  your  company  made  it — in  spite  of 
your  recommendations  and  in  spite  of  the  opposition  of  the  military 
sales  division? 

Mr.  Casey.  We  made  some  sort  of  an  agreement.  I  think  that 
discussion  finally  resulted  in  the  agreement  of   1926,  did  it  not? 

Senator  Vandenberg.  The  agreement  of  November  1925  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Well,  that  was  not  a  signed  agreement,  was  it?  Is  it 
not  a  memorandum  of  discussion? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  You  operated  under  it,  didn't  you  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes ;  without  waiting  for  the  signature.s. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  It  was  an  operating  memorandum. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Let  me  read  from  this  memorandum.  This 
is  a  memorandum  18  months  later.  It  may  be  offered  as  an  exhibit 
and  marked. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  937  "  and 
is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2584.) 

Senator  Vandenberg  (reading) : 

Attached  hereto  is  memorandum  on  "  du  Pont-Nobel  Corporation,  Sales  of 
Military  Propellant  Powders  and  Explosives",  which  is  the  present  agreement 
between  the  du  Pont  Co.  and  the  Nobel  Interests  concerning  military  sales  to 
goveniments  other  than  the  United  States  and  Great  Britain. 

A  brief  summary  on  how  it  came  into  being  is  timely.  For  some  years  past 
an  accord  has  existed  regarding  foreign  sales  of  commercial  explosives,  but 
all  documents  covering  this  accord  specifically  excepted  military  sales,  as  for 
example,  that  of  January  1,  1920. 

This  was  largely  due  to  the  fact  that  du  Pont  felt  that  any  accord  on 
military  sales  would  tend  to  disturb  their  relations  with  the  United  States  Gov- 
ernment, which  relations  had  been  carefully  cultivated  for  over  a  century. 

Which  is  a  reexpression  of  that  same  general  policy  of  the  du  Pont 
Co.? 
Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 
Senator  Vandenberg  (reading)  : 

How  Nobel  felt  in  this  regard  is  not  known  to  us,  but  probably  the  Cordite 
factories  at  Waltham  Abbey,  Holton  Heath,  and  Auruvankadu  (India)  occupy 
a  relatively  larger  place  in  the  British  propellant  supply  than  do  the  American 
equivalents,  so  that  the  relations  of  Nobel  with  the  British  Government  are 
possibly  not  as  intimate  as  du  Font's  with  the  United  States  Government. 

It  is  your  observation  that  that  is  a  fair  assessment  of  the  rela- 
tive relations  between  du  Pout's  and  the  United  States  Government 
and  Nobel's  and  the  Government  of  Great  Britain? 

Mr.  Casey.  At  least  it  was  at  that  time. 

83876—35 — prll 4 


2440  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Continuing  the  reading: 

The  military  sales  divisiou  of  the  du  Pont  Co.  is  charged  with  sales  to  aud 
contact  with  the  United  States  War  and  Navy  Departments,  and  our  constant 
acquaintance  with  the  officials  of  these  Departments  gives  the  members  of  the 
military  sales  division  a  knowledge  of  opinion  in  Washington  that  is  never 
written  and  seldom  spoken.  It  is  the  unanimous  belief  of  the  military  sales 
division  that  any  agreement  on  military  sales  with  an  alien  firm  will  materially 
hurt  our  relations  with  the  United  States  Government,  if  indeed  such  agree- 
ment will  not  eventually  conflict  with  Article  XIV  (d)   Ordnance  Contract 

What  is  the  ordnance  contract? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  that  is  a  paragraph  in  ordnance  contracts. 
Senator  Vakdenberg,  I  quote  from  the  paragraph  in  the  ordnance 
contract.     [Reading :] 

No  contractor  having  in  hand  work  of  a  military  character  which  the  Ord- 
nance Department  may  designate  as  confidential  shall  permit  any  foreign  officer 
or  other  foreigner  not  in  the  contractor's  employ  to  visit  portions  of  the  plant 
where  stich  work  is  in  process,  nor  shall  the  contractor  give  to  such  person 
any  specific  information  concerning  such  work  without  the  authority  of  the 
Chief  of  Ordnance,  nor  shall  any  alien  in  the  contractor's  employ  be  engaged 
on  or  permitted  to  examine  such  parts  of  the  work  as  the  Ordnance  Depart- 
ment may  specifically  designate  as  confidential. 

That  is  the  end  of  the  quotation  from  the  contract.    [Reading:] 

Notwithstanding  this  belief,  an  agreement  to  cooperate  with  Nobel  on  mili- 
tary sales  was  signed  in  London  in  November  1925,  whereby  du  Pont  was 
given  priority  of  sales  on  nitrocellulose  powders  and  Nobel  given  priority  on 
TNT    and   nitroglycerin    powders. 

Now,  the  statement  is  that  notwithstanding  this  belief  an  agree- 
ment was  made.  I  assume  it  is  a  fair  interpretation  to  say  that  the 
document  itself  thus  confesses  that  tlie  agreement  is  in  hostility  to 
the  belief. 

Mr.  Casey.  To  my  belief. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Yes;  and  was  it  your  belief  that  it  was  also 
in  hostilit}^  to  the  du  Pont  formula  for  dealing  with  the  Government 
of  the  United  States? 

^  Mr.  Casey.  No ;  I  don't  think  so.  Perhaps  at  this  time  I  was  try- 
ing to  stress  my  point  and  I  was  bringing  every  bit  of  pressure  I 
possibly  could,  even  perhaps  to  the  extent  of  slight  exaggeration. 
I  would  say  exaggeration,  perhaps,  in  the  language. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Let  us  proceed  with  this  exhibit.  I  drop 
doAvn  to  the  final  paragraph  on  page  2,  the  same  page  from  which  I 
was  reading: 

The  following  has  developed :  On  the  1,000-ton  Polish  order,  Nobel's  quota 
would  liave  been  300  tons,  but  the  Polish  Government  declined  to  split  the  order 
and.  in  general,  it  may  be  assumed  that  this  attitude  will  be  followed  by  other 
govern  inei  lis. 

Befcre  I  sjjeak  of  that  in  detail,  this  general  agreement  did  finally 
obligate  you  to  guarantee  to  Xobel  WO  tons  of  nitrocellulose  powder 
business  on  tl\e  continent  every  year,  didn't  it? 

Mr.  Casey.  It  did  not  obligate  us. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  What  was  the  point? 

Mr.  Casey.  The  point  was  tliis :  That  I.  C.  I.,  Nobel,  or  E.  T.  L., 
whatever  the  name  Avas  at  that  time,  stated  that  they  Avanted  to  keep 
alive  that  know-how  to  n)anrifacture  the  nitrocellulose  powder  which 
tliev  had  been  workinji  on  durinir  tb.e  war  to  a  certain  extent. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2441 

Therefore,  they  said  that  they  would  like  to  have  a  certain  amount 
of  business  each  year,  but  not  in  excess  of  300  tons,  as  that  was  the 
limit  of  their  capacity,  and  all  they  wanted  to  do  was  to  keep  alive 
the  "  know-how  ",  without  expanding  their  plant.  Therefore,  it  pro- 
vided for  not  in  excess  of  300  tons. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  You  operated  under  this  agreement  for  a 
number  of  years  after  this,  did  3'ou  not? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  In  1927  Colonel  Taylor  wrote  you 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator,  will  you  pardon  me? 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Yes. 

Mr.  Casey.  Would  you  mind  reading  all  of  the  first  paragraph  on 
page  3,  the  first  paragraph  at  the  top  of  the  page  beginning  "At 
a  meeting  held  in  London." 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  will  read  anything  you  want  read 
[reading]  : 

At  a  meeting  held  in  London  on  October  11,  1927,  it  was  stated  by  a  Nobel 
representative  that  Ardeer  must  have  orders  for  nitrocellulose  powders  in 
order  to  gain  experience  and  keep  the  plant  force  employed,  which  indicates 
that  the  difficulties  still  exist  in  perfecting  a  nitrocellulose  powder  and  pro- 
ducing it  at  a  cost  sufficiently  low  to  compete  with  other  firms. 

Do  you  want  me  to  read  some  more? 

Mr.  Casey.  No,  I  think  if  I  can  look  at  the  date  of  this  document, 
it  was  certainly  after  1927,  I  think  that  will  have  some  relation 
later  on. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Perhaps  we  are  coming  to  it.  Major. 

Mr.  Casey.  You  notice,  Senator,  though,  that  even  in  1927  they 
were  still  having  diflSculties  in  making  powder  of  that  type. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Yes;  I  realize  that. 

Mr.  Casey.  It  was  some  time  after  1927. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  In  1927.  on  November  16,  Colonel  Taylor 
wrote  you  from  Paris  concerning  certain  difficulties  which  the  nor- 
mal functioning  of  the  agreement  had  brought  about. 

Now,  I  want  to  read  from  this  letter,  from  page  3.  It  is  a  very 
lengthy  letter,  and  the  entire  letter  will  be  marked  as  an  exhibit. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  938  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2585.) 

Senator  Vandenberg.  On  page  3,  starting  with  paragraph  17, 
Colonel  Taylor,  your  European  representative,  writing  to  Mr.  Casey 
says : 

However,  it  is  now  very  easy  to  project  one's  self  into  the  future  and  foresee 
that  certain  military  difficulties  are  about  to  arise.  These  difficulties  are 
about  to  develop  in  specific  cases : 

The  first  case  is  the  question  of  Poland.  We  are  looking  forward  to  con- 
siderable business  fi-om  Poland,  and  hoping  that  it  will  come  in  the  form 
of  additional  quantities  to  the  present  contract,  which  if  it  takes  place,  would 
obligate  us  under  the  agi'eement.  to  endeavor  to  pass  a  certnin  quantity  of 
this  contract  to  Nobel,  specifically  300  tons  of  powder.  It  is  evident  to  me, 
however,  that  without  our  assistance.  Nobel  cannot  manufacture  in  accordance 
with  the  specifications  and  we  will  either  have  to  show  Nobel  how  to  manu- 
facture this  powder  by  sending  men  to  Ardeer,  or  he  will  have  to  take  Nobel's 
men  to  America  to  work  them  in  on  this  matter. 

Are  we  now  discussing  the  powder  on  which  the  War  Department 
objected  to  your  releasing  information? 


2442  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Casey.  Not  entirely,  because  a  good  deal  of  the  powder  was 
cannon  powder  of  the  regular  straight  nitrocellulose  type. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Is  there  some  of  the  powder  in  the  type  we 
are  now  discussing,  of  the  type  on  which  the  War  Department  ob- 
jected to  your  releasing  information? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes,  I  think  it  was ;  some  I.M.R. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Some  was  I.M.R.  ? 

Mr.   Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Vandenberg  (reading)  : 

The  second  case  is  the  question  in  Belgium  where,  for  every  commercial 
reason,  it  would  appear  reasonable  to  place  the  business  expected  from  the 
Fabrique  Natiunale  on  Nobel's,  and  where  Nobel  is  about  to  undertake  studies 
to  meet  the  requirements.  In  this  case,  unless  I  give  Nobel's  the  results  of 
the  studies  made  by  us  for  the  Fabrique  Nationale,  and  give  them  certain 
assistance,  which  knowledge  I  have  acquired  through  efforts  of  the  du  Pont 
Co.,  they  will  have  trouble  in  meeting  these  requirements. 

Thirdly,  in  the  question  of  powder  for  the  13.2  mm  Hotchkiss  machine  gun, 
the  question  comes  up  why  should  they  not  furnish  powder  to  Kynoch,  if  they 
can  make  it,  as  Kynocli  is  their  own  factory,  and  here  again,  in  order  to  enable 
Ardeer  to  make  this  powder,  we  will  eventually  have  to  give  them  some 
assistance. 

So,  it  would  appear  that,  in  order  to  fullfil  your  quota  obligations 
to  Nobel,  you  would  be  forced  to  give  them  information  to  enable 
them  to  manufacture  a  number  of  different  types  of  powder,  would 
it  not? 

Mr.  Casj:y.  That  is  what  Taylor  thought,  looking  into  the  future 
was,  perhaps,  apt  to  happen. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Yes :  and  that  included,  in  whatever  degree 
it  involved  them,  it  included  these  powders  which  the  War  Depart- 
ment had  put  their  prohibition? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  This  is  in  1927? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes;  in  1927. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Now,  did  the  1927  contract  Avith  Poland  for 
1,000  tons  go  through? 

Mr.  Casey,  Yes ;  and  du  Pont  filled  it  all. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Did  you  promise  to  show  Nobel  how  to  make 
the  powder  which  Poland  required  under  this  contract  so  that  they 
could  fill  their  quota  under  the  agreement? 

Mr.  Casey.  We  did  not. 

Now,  Senator  Vandenberg,  would  you  mind  letting  me  now  go 
back  to  fill  in  the  gap  ? 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Just  a  minute,  on  this  particular  point.  I 
want  to  refer  to  the  next  letter  which  will  be  marked  as  an  exhibit. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  939  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  page  2589.) 

Senator  Vakdenberg.  This  is  a  letter  to  Colonel  Taylor  from 
W.  H.  O'Gorman,  assistant  director.    Was  he  your  assistant,  Major? 

Mr.  Casey.  Right. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  He  was  assistant  director  to  Major  Casey, 
which  letter  is  dated  January  10,  1928,  and  I  want  to  refer  to  the 
second  page,  the  paragraph  marked  with  the  numeral  4.     [Reading :] 

We  do  not  intend  to  furnish  technical  information  to  Nobel  on  any  rifle  or 
cannon  powder  which  we  have  in   the  past  made  up  or  may  make  up  for 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2443 

European  governments.  The  sole  exception  to  this  is  in  the  case  of  Poland 
where  we  have  promised,  and  are  willing  to  show  the  Nobel  representative  the 
manufacture  of  rifle  and  cannon  powder  on  the  Polish  contract. 

Does  that  change  your  answer  to  my  question  as  to  whether  you 
made  a  promise  to  release  this  information? 

Mr.  Casey.  We  did  not. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Now,  this  information  that  you  promised 
to  release  to  the  Nobel  representative  in  the  case  of  Poland,  did  that 
involve  this  I.  M.  R.  powder  in  any  degree? 

Mr.  Casey.  But,  we  made  no  promise  to  release  it  to  Nobel. 

Senator  Vandexrfjjo.  What  does  this  mean  when  you  say  [read- 
ing] : 

The  sole  exception  to  this  is  in  the  case  of  Poland  where  we  have  promised 
and  are  willing  to  show  the  Nobel  representative  the  manufacture  of  rifle  and 
cannon  powder  on  the  Polish  contract? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  may  be  in  the  letter,  but  we  still  want  to  fill  in 
that  gap.  Senator.  Otherwise,  this  paragraph  does  not  stand  out  as 
it  should.     If  you  will  permit  me,  I  would  like  to  tell  you  the  story. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  All  right;  then  we  will  come  back  to  this 
paragraph. 

Mr.  Casey.  After  this  Government's  objection,  previously  referred 
to,  of  1923,  our  position  became  ridiculous  to  such  an  extent  that  our 
people  accused  Henning  and  myself  of  deliberately  trjdng  to  block 
the  proposition,  which  was  simply  this :  Nobel  had  the  information 
on  the  manufacture  of  this  powder  which  was  given  to  all  British 
manufacturers  at  that  time  during  the  war,  but  if  Nobel  made  any 
of  that  powder  they  would  be  promptly  running  up  against  our 
patents,  which  would  possibly  lead  to  a  lawsuit.  The  final  result 
of  all  this  was  that  Mr.  Felix  du  Pont  and  myself  went  down  to 
General  Williams,  and  explained  to  him  that,  really,  what  Nobel 
wanted,  and  all  we  expected  to  give  them  was  a  non-exclusive  license, 
so  that  they  could  make  powder  in  England,  which  would  absolve 
them  from  the  danger  of  a  lawsuit  on  our  part  because  of  a  violation 
of  our  patent.  While  they  had  all  the  knowledge  as  to  making  it, 
they  had  never  been  licensed  to  make  that  powder. 

Now,  the  fact  also  remains  that  no  further  information  was  given 
to  Nobel's  on  any  improvements  we  made  on  I.  M.  R.  powder,  other 
than  they  had  in  the  original  developments  as  they  existed  during 
the  war.  Therefore,  when  you  read  this  paragraph,  if  Nobel's  had 
been  able  to  supply  to  Poland  a  certain  portion  of  the  contract,  if 
Poland  were  willing,  and  Poland  wanted  to  supply  the  type  of 
powder  which  was  manufactured  during  the  war,  which  England 
and  Russia  could,  and  when  you  say  Russia  you  must  include  the 
Poles  as  part  of  Russia,  they  knew  what  the  Russian  powder  was-r- 
then  we  might  assist  them  in  making  the  type  of  powder  that  they 
were  making,  or  trying  to  make  during  the  war,  but  on  no  further 
development.  I  think  that  clears  the  picture  a  little  differently. 
It  makes  the  set-up  appear  a  little  different. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  It  makes  it  appear  a  little  different,  yet  the 
thing  I  am  trying  to  discover,  and  which,  I  confess,  leaves  me  in 
some  perplexity  is  this :  Back  in  1923  you  were  asking  the  War  De- 
partment of  the  ITnited  Statues  whether  it  had  any  objection  to  this 
relationship  with  Nobel's  in  respect  to  I.  M.  R.  powder. 


2444  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Casey.  Right. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Obviously  because  there  must  be  some  in- 
formation involved  which  is  wanted  abroad  as  a  result  of  your 
release.  You  are  consistently  proceed! n<2;  on  the  theory  that  you 
want  to  do  everything  the  War  Department  asks  you  to  do. 

Mr.  Casey.  Right. 

Senator  Vandenbekg.  The  War  Department  asks  you.  and  the 
Navy  Department  asks  you  not  to  proceed  with  your  arrangement. 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is  right. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  And  you  do  proceed  with  the  arrangement 
in  spite  of  tliose  objections.  In  a  conference  which  you  yourselves 
sought  with  the  governmental  authorities  as  late  as  1928,  you  are 
asserting  your  willingness  to  continue  to  violate  this  request  from 
the  War  Department  in  some  degree  in  respect  to  this  Polish  order, 
it  seems  to  me.     Am  I  mistaken  about  that? 

Mr.  Casey.  Do  you  think  that  is  really  a  fair  statement.  Senator? 
I  know  from  my  contact  with  you  that  you  want  to  be  absolutely 
fair. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  think  you  are  correct  about  that. 

Mr.  Casey.  Now,  I  have  just  tried  to  indicate  to  you  that  here  was 
something  they  had  complete  information  on.  They  have  that  to 
the  extent,  not  only  of  the  information  we  gave  them,  but  that  our 
own  Ordnance  Department  people  gave  them. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Didn't  they  have  that  before  you  sent  Hen- 
ning  up  to  the  War  Department  to  find  out  if  the  War  Department 
had  objection  to  this? 

Mr.  Casey.  Who? 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Henning. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes;  they  did. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Why  did  vou  send  Henning  over  to  the  War 
Department? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  wanted  to  block  it. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  You  agreed  with  the  W^ar  Department's 
viewpoint  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  wanted  to  prevent  any  further  improvements  reach- 
ing Nobel's.  They  had  the  type  of  powder  existing  during  the  war, 
and  I  wanted  to  prevent  any  further  improvements,  improvements 
had  to  be  made  in  that  powder,  reaching  them.  What  they  would 
have  gotten  would  not  have  been  the  I.  M.  R.  powder  we  supplied 
to  the  United  States. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Now,  let  us  both  be  perfectly  fair  and  frank 
about  this.^  Is  it  not  a  fact  that  the  relations  of  the  du  Pont  Co. 
with  Nobel's  did  violate  in  spirit,  if  not  in  letter,  the  regulations  of 
the  War  and  Navy  Departments  as  asserted  to  you  in  1923  in  connec- 
tion with  your  relations  with  Nobel's  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  think  so,  Senatoi-,  and  I  am  trying  to  be  frank 
about  it,  too,  because  when  Mr.  Felix  du  Pont  and  myself  explained 
to  General  Williams  that  it  was  simply  a  question  of  authorizing 
legally  their  right  to  make  the  powder  "which  they  already  had  in- 
formation on.  That  is  us  far  as  the  matter  went,  and  General  Wil- 
liams said  they  did  have  the  information,  I  know  it — General 
Williams  talking  said,  "  I  know  they  have  the  information." 

We  said  this  is  simply  a  question  of  legallj^  giving  them  the  right 
without  danger  of  a  lawsuit,  to  make  something  the  information  on 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2445 

which  they  already  have.  To  this  day,  I  do  not  believe  Nobel's 
has  ever  been  able  to  make  that  powder.  So  that  shows  we  have 
not  helped  them. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Senator,  I  think  that  Major  Casey  has 
missed  your  point,  and  for  that  reason  has  not  cleared  up  your 
mind  on  it. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  No  ;  he  has  not  cleared  up  my  mind. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  The  United  States  Government  did  not 
object  to  the  relations  between  du  Pont  and  Nobel,  or  between  du 
Pont  and  I.  C.  I.  They  objected  to  the  giving  of  information  on 
that  powder. 

Senator  Vandenbekg.  That  is  my  understanding,  and  it  is  also 
my  understanding  that  you  did  give  information  in  spite  of  the 
objection. 

Mr.  Casey.  No;  no  information,  Senator. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  What  did  you  give? 

Mr.  Casey.  The  right  to  manufacture. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Wasn't  it  the  right  to  manufacture  which, 
necessarily,  involved  the  information  that  the  War  Department  and 
the  Navy  Department  were  telling  you  to  keep  confidential? 

Mr.  Casey.  This  was  information  that  Nobel  already  had. 

Senator  George.  Do  you  mean,  Major  Casey,  that  you  were  agree- 
ing to  license  a  developed  process,  developed  during  the  war,  that 
they  already  had,  isn't  that  your  meaning? 

Mr.  Casey.  Exactly. 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  The  conversations  with  the  War  Depart- 
ment that  Major  Casey  mentioned  occurred  quite  a  while  ago,  and 
I  want  to  say  that  I  remember  very  distinctly  the  conversation  that 
we  had  with  General  Williams,  in  which  General  Williams  said : 

It  is  all  right  for  you  to  give  them  the  right  to  manufacture  that  powder, 
which  they  knew  liow  to  make  during  the  war. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Is  there  anything  in  writing  which  you  have 
ever  received  from  the  Bureau  of  Ordnance,  or  the  Chief  of  the 
Bureau  of  the  Navy  Department,  which  mentions  in  any  way  the 
memorandum  of  June  27,  1923? 

Mr.  Casey.  Which  one  is  that? 

Senator  Vandenberg.  That  is  the  memorandum  in  which  the 
chief  of  the  War  Department  says: 

In  view  of  the  fact  that  powders  of  this  type  are  employed  in  certain 
standard  service  ammunition  used  not  only  by  the  United  States  Army  but 
by  the  Navy  and  Marine  Corps,  the  Ordnance  Department  believes  that  the 
methods  involved  in  the  manufacture  should  be  regarded  as  confidential  mili- 
tary information. 

Mr.  Casey.  And  so  they  were. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Has  that  ever  been  mentioned  in  any  way 
in  writing? 

Mr.  Casey.  It  did  not  have  to  be,  because  we  gave  them  no  infor- 
mation over  what  they  originally  had.  Therefore  we  absolutely 
lived  up  to  the  request  of  the  Chief  of  the  Bureau  of  Ordnance  and 
Chief  of  Ordnance  of  the  Army.     We  gave  them  no  information. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  What  kind  of  I.  M.  R.  powder  was  it  that 
you  were  going  to  permit  Nobel  to  manufacture  and  sell  to  Poland 
in  1928,  many  years  later?     Is  that  the  old  stuff? 


2446  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Casey.  The  old  stuff. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Without  any  of  the  new  developments 
later? 

Mr.  Casey.  No. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Now,  let  us  consider  the  flashless  nonhygro- 
scopic  powder.  A  large  portion  of  the  powder  furnished  on  this 
Polish  contract  was  this  F.N.H.  type,  which  you  developed  for  the 
War  Department? 

Mr.  Casey.  A  large  part? 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Yes. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  think  we  supplied  any. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  You  do  not  think  there  is  any  F.N.H.  pow- 
der that  has  been  involved  in  these  foreign  sales  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  No.  When  you  talk  about  F.  N.  H.,  and  when  our 
powder  began  to  be  known  around  the  world.  We  were  approached 
by  I.C.I,  for  the  know-how.  Our  answer  was  obvious.  There  is  a 
little  situation  that  always  comes  up,  and  that  is  this,  it  might  be  that 
the  United  States  ordnance,  either  Army  or  Navy  might  want  to  use 
that.  So,  therefore,  we  simply  said  to  I.C.I.,  if  you  want  this  infor- 
mation, you  put  in  your  request  through  the  military  attache  and 
the  British  Embassy.  They  will  in  turn  deliver  it  through  channels 
down  to  the  Ordnance  Department,  and  if  the  Ordnance  Department 
is  agreeable  and  we  are  agreeable  to  this,  we  will  transmit  the  infor- 
mation back  through  the  Ordnance  Department. 

Now,  the  reason  that  I  make  that  statement  is  this :  It  is  a  com- 
mon practice  among  governments  if  one  country  has  certain  infor- 
mation, they  will  use  that  to  trade  with  another  nation  for  some- 
thing of  military  importance  that  they  may  have,  and  so  we  wanted 
to  find  out  in  such  cases  whether  or  not  this  was  of  any  use  to  the 
United  States  Government  to  assist  them  in  getting  any  further 
information. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  In  connection  with  the  Polish  order,  the 
reason  it  failed  was  because  the  Polish  Government  refused  to  com- 
plete the  order  in  the  fashion  suggested,  was  it  not  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  was  one  reason,  yet  we  anticipated  that  in  the 
beginning,  because  if  I  wanted  du  Pont  powder  I  would  say,  "  I 
want  du  Pont  to  make  it  and  not  somebody  else." 

I  have  here,  and  I  do  not  know  whether  it  is  complete  or  not,  a 
list  of  patents  on  I.M.R.  powder.  One  is  dated,  without  going  into 
the  serial  number,  July  29, 1916.    That  is  the  year  it  was  filed. 

Another  was  British  application  June  9, 1917,  and  another  August 
17,  1916.  British  application,  June  9,  191T.  Another,  August  17, 
1916,  and  British  application  June  9,  1917.  Another  July  14,  1916, 
and  British  application  June  9,  1917. 

All  of  these  patents  except  no.  1313459 — all  of  those  except  the 
last  had  been  given  to  the  British  during  the  war.  All  information 
in  connection  with  it  is  covered  by  those  patents,  and  the  right  to  use 
them  on  account  of  the  war. 

Now,  it  was  simply  legalizing  the  right  to  operate  under  those 
patents.    That  is  involved  in  this  whole  proposition. 

Now,  as  to  the  number  of  patents  since  that  time,  I  do  not  know 
how  many  there  are,  but  I.C.I,  has  no  information,  and  there  is  no 
intent  on  our  part  to  give  that  information.     Further  than  that. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2447 

when  we  got  these  instructions  from  the  Chief  of  the  Bureau  of  Ord- 
nance, and  the  Chief  of  Ordnance  of  the  Army,  we  lived  up  to  them 
and  gave  tliem  no  further  information  than  on  the  basis  of  the  first 
patent,  what  they  ah^eady  had. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Anything  subsequently  sold  is  the  old  stuff? 

Mr.  Casey.  What? 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Anything  subsequently  sold  is  the  old  stuff, 
sold  under  this  arrangement? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes;  but  to  my  knowledge  they  have  never  sold  a 
pound.     They  have  not  been  able  to  make  it. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  We  will  proceed. 

Mr.  Lammot  dtj  Pont.  Senator,  before  you  proceed,  you  asked  a 
while  ago  whether  there  was  any  modification  of  the  War  Depart- 
ment's position. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Yes. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  On  the  memorandum  of  1923,  I  have  here 
a  memorandum  which  indicates  that  there  was  a  modification,  and  I 
would  like  to  read  it. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  think  you  should  read  it. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  it  is  part  of  the  chronology.  This 
is  a  letter  from  Mr.  Henning  of  April  29,  1924,  which  is,  of  course, 
Mr.  Henning's  version  of  what  we  agreed  to.  I  will  just  read  one 
extract,  and  then,  if  you  would  like  to,  you  can  have  the  whole 
communication  on  it.     [Reading:] 

Even  before  seeing  our  letter.  General  Ruggles  had  dictated  an  endorsement 
relating  to  the  military  attache's  cable,  stating  that  it  was  vastly  more  impor- 
tant to  encourage  du  Pont  in  the  manufacture  of  propellants  for  military  use, 
than  to  endeavor  to  protect  secrets  relating  to  the  manufacture. 

This  is  referring  to  I.M.R.  powder. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  am  glad  you  read  it.  I  think  I  am  com- 
ing to  something  of  that  same  character,  Mr.  du  Pont. 

Mr.  Casey.  Before  we  quit  these  patents,  may  I  say  that  these 
patents  have  lapsed. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  refer  now  to  Mr.  O'Gorman's  letter  of 
March  10,  1928,  to  Colonel  Taylor,  in  which  the  close  cooperation  on 
military  products  is  reaffirmed. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  940 ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  page  2590.) 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  want  to  read  this  letter  addressed  to 
Colonel  Taylor,  signed  by  Mr.  O'Gorman,  who  is  Major  Casey's 
assistant. 

Senator  George.  What  is  the  date  of  that  letter  ? 

Senator  Vandenberg.  March  10,  1928.  The  title  of  it  is  "  Con- 
ference with  Nobel  Officials."     [Reading:] 

1.  On  March  9  a  conference  took  place  between  Nobel  and  du  Pont  officials 
on  matters  appertaining  to  sales  of  military  products  of  both  companies.  We 
have  not  as  yet  been  furnished  with  a  copy  of  the  minutes  of  the  conference, 
but  the  following  as  reported  by  Major  Casey  is  a  summary  of  recommenda- 
tions : 

(a)  A  10-year  agreement  between  Nobel  and  du  Pont  covering  military  sales 
in  Europe  be  entered  into  as  more  or  less  of  a  continuation  of  the  1925  agree- 
ment. 

(6)  It  was  explained  to  Nobel  that  our  Paris  office  is  not  in  a  position  to 
furnish  technical  information,  and  therefore  all  technical  problems  should  be 
referred  to  Wilmington.    We  offered  Nobel  our  facilities  at  Brandywine  Labora- 


2448  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

tory  for  the  development  of  nitrocellulose  rifle  powders  for  British  Army  car- 
tridges. We  suggested  that  Brandywine  would  welcome  visits  of  Nobel  technical 
men,  and  we  would  undertake  to  develop  nitrocellulose  rifle  powders  to  fulfill 
the  British  requirements,  provided  Nobel  would  furnish  us  with  guns  and 
components  to  be  used  in  ballistic  tests.  The  development  would  then  be  turned 
over  to  Nobel  and.  If  necessary,  we  would  send  a  man  to  Ardeer  to  assist  in 
the  manufacture  of  nitrocellulose  rifle  powder  for  the  British  Government. 
All  technical  information  passed  on  to  Nobel  would  be  on  the  basis  of  Nobel 
agreeing  to  consider  same  as  confidential,  and  under  no  condition  divulge  it  to 
subsidiary  or  other  companies  in  which  Nobel  may  have  part  ov/nership  or 
some  other  interest. 

To  what  extent  would  that  involve  the  release  of  what  we  might 
term  "  military  secrets  "  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  None  whatsoever.  One  of  the  powders  which  had  the 
greatest  sale  was  I.M.R,  18,  which  was  developed  during  the  war 
for  the  British  cartridge.  As  I  have  stated  before,  Nobel  had  never 
been  able  to  make  a  satisfactory  copy  of  that  powder,  although  they 
had  all  the  information.  They  were  trjdng  to  induce  the  British 
Government  to  drop  the  use  of  cordite  with  its  highly  corrosive 
qualities,  and  use  a  progressive  burning  powder,  which  they  felt  they 
could  make.  This  whole  proposition  here  is  that  we  felt  we  could 
assist  them  in  making  the  old  powder  that  was  made  during  the  war, 
I.M.R.-18,  because  it  was  ideally  suited  to  the  British  cartridge,  and 
there  had  been  no  change  in  the  British  cartridge,  it  was  the  old  303 
mark  7. 

Senator  Barbour.  Major,  I  am  wondering  if  that  assistance  which 
you  speak  of  is  not  the  fulfillment  of  a  promise  that  I  remember 
being  mentioned  in  one  of  the  other  letters. 

Mr.  Casey.  You  mean  about  help? 

Senator  Barbour.  About  help. 

Mr.  Casey.  In  regard  to  information  which  they  already  had? 

Senator  Barbour.  Yes.  I  think  there  has  been  a  little  confusion 
in  our  minds  in  regard  to  a  promise  which  was  made,  which  appeared 
in  connection  with  your  arrangements  with  the  Department  and  a 
nonfulfillment  of  it. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Mr.  Chairman 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Yes,  Mr.  du  Pont. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  would  like  to  ask  if  you  have  taken  from 
the  files  the  original  copy  of  the  patents,  which  it  seems  to  me  is  the 
most  important  part  of  this  controversy.  I  do  not  know  what  it 
contains. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  If  it  is  available,  it  might  be  entered,  but 
it  is  so  technical  that  it  seems  to  me  that  the  interpretation  of  the 
situation  made  by  your  own  officials  is  thoroughly  competent. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  seems  to  me  that  the  first-hand  testimony 
of  the  actual  contract  ought  to  be  the  thing  which  governs,  rather 
than  somebody's  interpretation. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Let  it  be  entered  at  any  time  you  want  to 
furnish  it  as  an  exhibit.  Nevertheless,  I  disagree  with  you  that  these 
particular  exhibits  are  not  thoroughly  pertinent  and  competent  and 
material. 

This  conference  in  1928  was  a  conference  relating  to  the  sale  of 
military  products,  was  it  not? 

Mr.  Casey.  Right. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2449 

Senator  Vandenberg.  And  it  is  renewing  a  thoroughly  intimate 
and  close  relationship,  a  sort  of  a  reciprocal  cooperation,  between 
you  and  Nobel,  is  it  not? 

Mr.  Casey.  No.  This  is  a  suggestion  to  renew  a  selling  arrange- 
ment. The  1925  agreement  did  not  include  patents  or  secret  proc- 
esses.    They  had  been  specifically  excluded. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  You  are  suggesting  the  visit  of  Nobel's  tech- 
nical man  and  complete  hospitality  in  the  matter  and  everything. 

Mr.  Casey.  As  I  just  explained  this,  they  had  still  not  been  able 
to  manufacture  the  same  powder  on  which  they  had  information 
during  the  war,  which  was  developed  for  the  British  cartridge  at  that 
time,  and  they  were  trying  to  get  the  British  Government  to  adopt  a 
nitrocellulose  powder  instead  of  cordite.  To  date,  they  have  not 
succeeded. 

Senator  George.  Then  Major  Casey,  we  are  to  infer,  or  to  under- 
stand, that  they  did  not  take  advantage  of  this  suggestion  or  offer? 
They  did  not  send  their  technical  experts  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  They  did,  but  you  have  got  to  take  into  consideration 
the  typical  British  viewpoint.  They  sent  over  two  men.  One  was 
an  old  long-range  rifle  shot,  with  whom  I  had  been  acquainted  a 
number  of  years,  F.  W.  Jones,  and  the  other  man  was  a  doctor  from 
Scotland  by  the  name  of  Stickland.  Those  men  came  over  and  here 
is  as  far  as  they  got :  The  very  minute  we  began  discussing  the  pow- 
der which  we  made  for  the  British  Government,  their  first  attitude 
was,  "  You  do  not  know  how  to  make  it."  That  is  as  far  as  we  got. 
Every  bit  of  the  talk  we  had  with  them  after  that  they  tried  to  show 
us  we  were  "  all  wet ",  the  answer  being  that  if  we  were,  they  would 
now  be  able  to  produce  the  powder,  and  when  they  were  given  the 
opportunity  during  the  war  period  to  see  how  the  powder  was  made, 
they  would  not  have  anything  to  do  with  it,  and  they  did  not  know 
anything  about  making  the  powder.  I  was  at  the  Ardeer  plant  in 
1925,  and  I  saw  them  with  German  machinery  which  they  had  gotten 
from  the  German  plants  right  after  the  war — I  think  there  was  a 
general  distribution  of  it — I  saw  them  trying  to  make  German 
powder,  and  likewise  on  some  of  the  German  equipment  they  were 
trying  to  make  our  powder,  and  when  they  tried  to  make  powder  on 
a  guillotine  press,  like  a  paper  press,  I  could  understand  how  they 
would  not  be  able  to  make  our  type  of  powder,  unless  they  changed. 
You  cannot  change  the  British  nature. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  You  have  a  great  deal  more  technical  knowl- 
edge about  the  manufacture  of  powder  than  most  of  the  countries  to 
which  you  sell,  have  you  not? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  would  not  say  that,  no ;  but  I  think  we  have  had  more 
practical  experience.  You  know  that  technical  knowledge  is  one 
thing  and  application  is  another  thing.  Two  experts  may  have  equal 
technical  knowledge  but  the  actual  "  know-how  "  or  operation  as  to 
the  question  of  distinction  between  them  is  bad. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  This  technical  capacity,  let  us  say,  which 
you  possess,  becomes 

Mr.  Casey.  Technical  and  operating  capacity. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Technical  and  operating  capacity  which 
you  possess  becomes  of  considerable  sales  use,  does  it  not,  in  the 
course  of  your  foreign  contacts? 

Mr.  Casey.  If  we  did  not  have  it,  we  could  not  sell. 


2450  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Precisely. 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator,  I  would  say  that  in  selling  to  a  foreign 
country  we  have  repeatedly  run  up  against  this  situation :  In  spite 
of  the  fact  they  say  "  the  powder  is  good,  but  not  as  good  as  we 
can  make  ",  this  being  the  foreign  country,  and  "  we  like  it ",  then 
they  start  in  to  tell  you  that  you  are  making  it  the  wrong  way. 
You  always  run  up  against  that  situation.  The  fact  of  the  matter 
is :  In  the  case  of  one  country,  to  whom  we  never  sold,  they  had 
a  term  in  their  own  specifications  which  really  meant  unless  you 
were  able  to  get  the  water  from  the  Danube  Kiver  you  could  not 
fulfill  the  specification — and  we  did  not  have  a  pipe  line.  That 
country  was  Rumania.  After  the  war  the  same  representatives 
who  were  here  during  the  war  came  over,  and  the  net  result  of  that 
was — after  being  told  that  we  still  did  not  Iniow  how  to  make 
powder  and  they  did  not  want  our  powder — they  wanted  their 
own — yet  on  actual  test  their  own  did  not  show  up  as  well  as  ours — 
and  the  net  result  of  the  proposition  was  an  expense  account  for 
furnishing  lemonade  on  all  occasions  to  the  representatives — and 
it  was  lemonade. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  As  a  statement  of  your  company's  policy 
with  respect  to  the  use  of  technical  and  operating  capacity  in  sales 
promotion,  let  me  read  into  the  record  the  final  two  paragraphs 
of  the  letter  of  W.  H.  O'Gorman,  who  was  Major  Casey's  assistant 
director,  addressed  to  Colonel  Taylor  in  Paris  on  December  12,  1927, 
which  I  will  offer  for  appropriate  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  941 "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2591.) 

Senator  Clark,  That  reads : 

The  matter  of  furnishing  technical  assistance  to  foreign  governments  or 
foreign  plants  is  one  which  comes  up  quite  often.  In  general,  our  policy  is 
not  to  answer  the  question  until  we  have  some  indication  as  to  whether 
the  giving  of  technical  assistance  will  result  in  a  large  order  or  orders.  If  it 
is  necessary  to  answer  the  question  as  to  the  giving  of  technical  assistance 
before  any  information  can  be  had  as  to  whether  the  foreign  government  will 
agree  to  give  us  a  percentage  of  its  powder  requirements  over  a  period  of 
years,  we  think  our  position  should  be  as  follows : 

The  du  Pont  Co.  will  furnish  technical  assistance  on  powder  manufacture, 
providing  we  can  be  guaranteed  orders  for  a  definite  quantity  of  powder 
per  annum  over  a  period  of  10  years.  Of  course,  our  decision  will  be  based 
upon  the  quantity  of  powder  which  we  will  be  permitted  to  manufacture 
for  the  customer  over  the  specified  period. 

Is  that  a  fair  statement  of  the  attitude  of  the  company? 

Mr,  Casey.  Yes,  sir;  but,  Senator,  before  you  leave  that,  realize 
this:  O'Gorman  is  writing  to  our  own  man.  Colonel  Taylor,  and 
while  it  is  not  expressed  here,  as  I  have  stated  repeatedly,  we  do  not 
have  to  explain  policies  to  our  own  people  every  minute.  It  stands 
without  any  further  comment  that  that  is  also  predicated  upon 
Government  permission  and  approval. 

EUROPEAN  countries  AIM  FOR  INDEPENDENCE  IN  POWDER  SUPPLY 

Senator  Vandenberg.  This  whole  phase  is  further  discussed  in  con- 
siderable more  detail  in  Colonel  Taylor's  letter  to  Major  Casey  under 
date  of  March  3,  1930,  which  will  be  marked  appropriately. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  942  "  and  ap- 
pears in  full  in  the  text.) 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2451 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  am  now  approaching  another  phase  of  the 
matter,  which  is  of  exceeding  interest  to  me.     I  read : 

In  the  European  countries  where  the  joint  sales  of  du  Pont  and  Imperial 
Chemical  Industries  material  are  conducted  by  the  Paris  office,  our  prospects  are 
limited  to  getting  a  few  orders  based  on  mobilization  plans  which  we  have 
stimulated. 

May  I  interrupt  to  inquire  in  how  many  different  countries  du 
Pont  and  I.  C.  I.  conduct  joint  sales? 

Mr.  Casey.  At  this  time  we  were  handling  sales  practically  for 
both  companies.     We  did  not  think  they  knew  how  to  sell. 

The  Chairman.  That  was  in  1930? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  was  in  1930. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  To  what  extent?  You  mean  all  over  the 
world  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  No,  no;  this  was  Europe  we  were  talking  about. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  All  over  Europe? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes,  sir;  including  Turkey,  I  believe,  and  Persia. 

Senator  Vandenberg  (reading)  : 

In  the  European  countries  where  the  joint  sales  of  du  Pont  and  Imperial 
Chemical  Industries  material  are  conducted  by  the  Paris  office,  our  prospects 
are  limited  to  getting  a  few  orders  based  on  mobilization  plans  which  we  have 
stimulated. 

What  does  that  mean  ?     How  do  they  stimulate  mobilization  plans  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  You  do  not  stimulate  the  plans.  I  believe  this  was 
brought  out  in  the  previous  hearing:  Every  nation  has  a  mobiliza- 
tion plan.  The  trouble  with  nearly  all  these  nations  was  that  they 
were  trying  to  fulfill  the  program  called  for  by  the  mobilization  plan 
but  did  not  have  the  money  with  which  to  do  it.  Further  than  that, 
in  the  different  branches  requiring  material,  each  one  would  try  to 
get  priority  for  his  particular  kind  of  equipment.  In  other  words, 
there  might  be  a  certain  amount  of  money  available  in  that  country 
for  mobilization.  The  quartermaster  would  come  along  and  say, 
"Yes;  I  must  have  this  for  canteens."  They  might  want  escort 
wagons,  they  might  want  trucks,  tractors,  or  something  of  that  sort. 
The  Ordnance  Department  might  want  guns,  they  might  want 
powder,  they  might  want  small  arms,  so  that  there  was  continually 
a  fight  in  every  country"  as  to  who  was  going  to  get  the  right  to  spend 
the  amount  of  money  available  on  their  mobilization  scheme.  That 
is  what  they  were  referring  to  here. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Let  me  read  the  next  sentence  [reading]  : 

We  have  such  prospects  in  Poland,  Holland,  Finland,  Esthonia,  Latvia. 

In  other  words,  in  Poland,  Holland,  Finland,  Esthonia,  and  Latvia 
you  had  prospects  for  getting  a  few  orders  based  on 

Mr.  Casey.  Mobilization  plans. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Which  you  had  stimulated. 

Mr.  Casey.  We  have  not  stimulated  the  plan.  We  were  trying 
to  stimulate  them  to  buy  the  powder  on  their  mobilization  program. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  They  have  the  progTam  and  you  are  try- 
ing to  stimulate  them  to  get  powder  to  carry  out  the  program. 

Mr.  Casey.  To  get  our  powder,  which  would  be  natural.  You  must 
realize  also.  Senator,  if  they  buy  guns  and  no  ammunition,  the  guns 
are  no  use. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Certainly  not  as  deadly. 


2452  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Casey.  If  they  buy  powder  and  do  not  buy  the  ammunition 
at  the  same  time,  or  the  components  making  up  the  ammunition, 
the  powder  is  of  no  use.  In  every  case,  they  have  got  to  keep  a 
balanced  program.  If  they  decide  to  buy  guns,  it  generally  means, 
if  they  use  all  the  money  for  guns,  they  probably  have  to  wait  until 
the  next  year  to  buy  ammunition.  There  is  a  time  element  in  there. 
It  may  be  that  the  guns  take  longer  to  produce  than  their  am- 
munition, 2  or  3  years,  and  they  say,  "  We  will  order  the  guns  this 
year  and  the  next  year  or  the  second  year  following  we  will  have 
the  ammunition  for  the  guns." 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Wlierever  they  have  a  mobilization  plan  as 
a  matter  of  business  procedure  you  see  if  you  can  sell  the  stuff  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  We  try  to  secure  some  of  it  for  our  material. 
Senator  Vandenberg.  You  try  to  turn  that  from  a  paper  plan 
into  an  actual  plan,  wherever  you  find  this  situation  existing? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  vrould  not  say  that.  We  try  to  get  our  part  of  the 
money  which  they  have  available.  Senator,  to  say  that  we  can  in- 
fluence a  foreign  government  as  to  its  policy,  I  think  it  is  self-evi- 
dent that  such  a  thing  is  impossible.  They  have  a  policy  and  we 
have  nothing  to  do  with  their  polic}-,  nor  could  we  in  any  way  pos- 
sibly have.    They  would  not  take  us  into  their  confidence. 

The  fact  of  the  matter  is,  I  might  add,  that  at  the  previous  hear- 
ing I  stated  when  we  firet  started  or  attempted  foreign  sales,  which, 
with  two  exceptions  before  the  war,  was  not  begun  until  after  the 
war,  we  found  we  were  like  children  in  the  wilderness,  and  the 
first  contract  which  we  had  was  from  an  extremely  friendly  country 
to  this  country,  and  where  they  had  actually  started  their  pur- 
chasing in  this  countr}'^  through  a  purchasing  commission  on  Fortieth 
Street  in  New  York  City,  and  it  was  several  years  afterward  before 
we  finally  got  a  contract. 

Now,  Colonel  Taylor,  who,  when  this  thing  started,  was  not  in 
military  service,  when  he  began  going  around  to  the  different  gov- 
ermnents,  the  door  was  shut  in  his  face.  It  was  not  until  they 
began  to  realize  that  he  would  not  leave  that  he  was  able  to  get 
by  the  outer  door.  The  foreigners  will  come  to  this  country  and 
be  surprised  as  to  how  easily  they  can  get  in  to  see  people.  Over 
there  you  cannot.  They  may  keep  you  waiting  in  an  anteroom 
for  days,  and  when  they  finally  let  you  get  into  the  inside,  you  are 
ready  to  say,  at  least,  "  They  are  now  ready  to  consider  us  as  a 
possible  source  of  supply." 

If  the  members  of  this  committee  think  that  this  is  a  matter  of 
just  going  some  place  and  selling  munitions,  and  that  we  have  some- 
thing to  say  and  they  jump  at  it,  they  are  very  much  mistaken. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  The  committee  has  no  such  idea. 

Mr.  Casey.  If  you  would  like  to  have  first-hand  information,  I 
would  like  to  put  you  on  the  job. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  From  my  observation  of  the  methods  em- 
ployed, I  wouhl  prefer  to  stay  in  the  Senate. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  will  say  this :  I  do  not  know  what  you  get  as  a  Sena- 
tor, but  you  ai'e  certainly  better  off. 

Senator  Vandenberg.   (reading)  : 

We  have  such  prospects  in  Poland,  Holland,  Finland,  Esthonia,  Latvia, 
and  based  on  your  stimulation  of  their  own  mobilization  plan? 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2453 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is  true. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  They  set  up  the  plan  and  then  your  sales- 
men proceed  to  tell  them  that  their  plan  is  no  good  so  long  as  it  is 
just  a  plan  on  paper? 

Mr,  Casey.  No,  On  their  mobilization  plan — we  have  never  seen 
an  actual  plan  in  any  country — they  have  plans  for  powder,  guns, 
ammunition,  high  explosives,  and  we  say,  "  Why  not  buy  some  from 
us?" 

Senator  Vandenberg.  What  good  is  it  on  paper  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  What  good  is  it  on  paper  ? 

Senator  Vandenberg.  If  they  have  a  gun  and  no  powder,  what 
good  is  it? 

Mr.  Casey,  To  make  an  ornament  for  some  city. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  will  continue  reading  that  letter  [reading 
"  Exhibit  No.  942  "]  : 

We  may  get  one  order  from  each  of  these  countries,  and  there  may  be  no 
more.  The  current  business  is  gradually  being  well  taken  care  of  by  local 
factories. 

However,  the  current  production  of  the  local  factories  is  not  entirely  satis- 
factory. They  are  calling  for  help,  and  it  might  appear  that  the  best  chance 
we  have  of  getting  orders  in  the  future  would  be  to  help  them  in  their  powder- 
factory  plans. 

It  is  the  ambition  of  every  European  country  to  build  a  local  factory,  or  to  im- 
prove the  quality  of  their  production,  where  factories  already  exist.  The  pro- 
duction, in  existing  factories,  of  a  poor  quality  at  high  costs  has  not  dis- 
couraged in  the  least  the  ambition  of  the  country  operating  the  factory,  nor 
caused  any  hesitation  on  the  part  of  other  countries  not  owning  factories  in 
considering  the  erection  of  a  factory  of  their  own. 

The  intention  of  each  country  is  to  produce  in  their  local  factory  the  type 
of  powder  that  the  government  adopts  as  standard,  or  to  adopt  as  standard  the 
type  of  powder  they  can  produce. 

In  the  territory  directed  by  Imperial  Chemical  Industries,  they  have  decided 
that  their  chances  of  business  are  so  small  that  their  only  profit  can  be  found 
in  conjunction  with  assistance  given  to  local  factories. 

They  are  now  negotiating  various  factory  schemes  in  Bulgaria,  Rumania, 
Turkey,  and  Yugoslavia. 

In  the  case  of  the  powder  factory  in  Turkey,  Imi^erlal  Chemical  Industries 
have  definitely  arranged  with  Koln-Rottweil,  Gute-Hoffnungs-Hutte,  and 
Golzern-Grimma  to  supply  the  technical  assistance. 

The  Germans  have  been  discussing  for  a  long  time  with  the  Turks  regarding 
the  erection  of  a  factory,  and  Imperial  Chemical  Industries  decided  that  In 
order  to  get  the  job  they  would  have  to  take  the  Germans  in,  which  they  did 
without  consulting  us,  although  they  keep  us  informed  at  all  times  of  what  is 
going  on. 

What  does  he  mean  by  taking  the  Germans  in?  Have  you  any 
idea? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  am  not  sure  that  my  memory  is  very  good  on  it,  but 
I  think  that  they  had  talked  of  taking  in  the"  Germans  in  the  erection 
of  a  powder  mill  in  another  country. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Does  that  mean  a  German  investment  or 
does  that  mean  the  purchase  of  material  in  Germany? 

Mr.  Casey.  No;  it  meant  a  German  investment. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  read: 

It  is  believed  that  in  our  territory  we  should  give  consideration  to  this  matter 
for  the  following  reasons : 

(a)  We  have  been  approached  several  times  by  each  of  our  customers  to 
assist  them  in  building  a  factory  or  in  improving  their  present  production. 

(&)  When  it  becomes  known  that  Bulgaria,  Rumania,  Turkey,  and  Yugo- 
slavia are  being  assisted  by  Imperial  Chemical  Industries  and  the  Germans  in 


2454  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

the  production  of  a  military  powder,  other  countries  will  become  more  enthusias- 
tic about  production  in  their  own  country. 

(c)  If  we  continue  to  turn  a  deaf  ear  to  our  customers'  requests  for  assistance 
in  their  predominant  ambition,  they  will  seek  assistance  either  from  Germany 
or  from  Bofors. 

(d)  Two  existing  government  factories  in  Europe,  1  in  Turkey  and  1  in 
Finland,  produce  the  German  type  of  powder. 

(e)  The  Gei-man  type  of  powder  is  entirely  satisfactory  in  Europe,  and 
fulfills  present-day  requirements. 

(f)  The  du  Pont  type  of  powder  is  not  produced  by  any  local  government 
factory  in  Europe. 

(g)  It  would  be  a  great  asset  if  the  du  Pont  type  of  powder  would  be 
adopted  as  standard  in  some  of  the  European  countries,  and  produced  there. 

(h)  In  order  to  adopt  du  Pont  powder  as  a  standard  type,  the  interested 
country  must  be  able  to  produce  it. 

We  recommend  that: 

(a)  The  Paris  office  be  authorized  to  negotiate  the  sale  of  "know  how"  for 
the  production  of  such  du  Pont  rifle  and  cannon  powder  granulations  as  cus- 
tomers may  adopt  as  standard. 

(6)  Definite  proposals  be  submitted  to  Poland  for  F.N.H.  powder  and  pyro- 
cannon  powder,  and  to  Holland  for  cannon  and  rifle  powders. 

Very  truly  yours, 

William  N.  Taylob. 

Now,  if  this  analysis  of  the  European  situation  is  correct,  it  would 
appear  that  no  European  country  intends  to  remain  dependent  upon 
a  foreign  country  for  its  powder  supply,  if  it  can  possibly  help  it. 
That  is  a  fair  interpretation,  is  it? 

Mr.  Casey.  Eight. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  So  that  this  means  that  you  face  the  predic- 
ament of  the  ultimate  disappearance  of  your  European  market,  when- 
ever they  achieve  powder  independence  of  their  own,  does  it  not? 

Mr.  Casey.  Eight. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  You  apparently  recognized  this  fact  in  1925, 
as  long  ago  as  1925,  and  I  am  very  much  interested  in  the  memoran- 
dum of  a  meeting  held  at  Nobel  House  on  November  9,  1925,  which 
is  offered  for  appropriate  number. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  943  "  and 
is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2592.) 

Senator  Clark.  I  read  from  this  memorandum : 

President:  Mr.  Ir^nee  du  Pont,  Maj.  K.  K.  V.  Casey,  Col.  W.  N.  Taylor,  Mr. 
A.  G.  Major. 

The  discussion  evidenced  that  the  du  Pont  representatives  accept  our  theory 
that  eventually  :  (1)  European  countries  will  be  self-supplying  and/or  (2)  draw 
their  supplies  from  countries  more  logically  situated  (geographically)  than  the 
U.S.A.  and  that  jointly  du  Pont  and  ourselves  should  adopt  the  policy  of  afford- 
ing technical  assistance  to  European  countries  wishing  to  erect  factories  in  re- 
turn for  a  fee  and  the  guarantee  of  jiowder  orders  to  us  during  the  erection 
period. 

So  that  as  early  as  1925  you  quite  generally  recognized  the  fact 
that  your  European  market  would  dry  up  witli  respect  to  American 
sales  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  And  that  therefore  apparently  the  only  pro- 
gressive outlet  for  the  time  being  was  through  cooperation  in  the 
creation  of  these  independent  producing  units  in  their  various  foreign 
countries,  and  you  would  get  as  much  out  of  it  incidentally  by  way 
of  temporary  orders  and  fees  as  you  could? 

Mr.  Casey.  As  a  matter  of  interest,  Senator,  nothing  ever  came  of 
any  of  it. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2455 

Senator  Vandenberg.  None  of  these  plans  have  ever  succeeded  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Not  a  bit.  In  connection  with  this  letter  of  Colonel 
Taylor's  of  March  3,  1930,  you  may  not  have  drawn  the  reply  from 
my  files.  On  account  of  my  voice,  I  would  like  to  have  somebody 
else  read  this.  This  is  the  reply  from  O'Gorman,  which  is  in  reply 
to  letter  T-1862.    Will  somebody  else  read  it? 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Will  you  read  it,  Mr.  Raushenbush  ? 

This  is  a  complete  confirmation,  is  it  not? 

Mr.  Casey.  Of  his  general  idea. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Of  his  general  idea.  Perhaps  it  will  suflfice 
if  we  enter  it  in  the  record  at  this  time,  without  taking  the  time  to 
read  it,  unless  you  want  to  have  it  read. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  think  there  is  any  need. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  All  right,  let  it  be  entered. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  944  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2593.) 

Mr.  Casey.  In  connection  with  all  these  European  factories  we 
are  beginning  to  talk  about  around  this  period,  I  would  like  to  read 
an  extract  from  a  letter  of  Colonel  Taylor's  dated  September  5, 
1932. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Casey.  He  says: 

The  result  was  that  in  1925  all  the  projects  for  building  local  factories 
were  pushed  and  a  great  many  new  ones  developed.  The  net  result  of  the 
threat  of  this  convention  was,  I  am  told,  that  over  300  building  projects 
were  considered  before  January,  1926. 

A  great  number  of  projects  which  might  otherwise  have  died  have  succeeded 
in  becoming  realities. 

Such  as  in  Tinland,  Latvia,  Zagadore  *  *  *  also  some  40  factories  in 
Poland  for  other  materials,  6  in  Yugoslavia  including  powder  plant,  rebuild- 
ing of  i)owder  factory  in  Roumania,  4  factories  built  in  Turkey,  and  an  at- 
tempt to  start  a  series  of  factories  in  Greece,  reconstruction  of  arsenals  in 
Spain,  government  assistance  to  powder  factory  of  Minden  in  Holland,  and 
the  decision  by  Italy  that  the  Italian  army  would  only  buy  from  Italian 
factories. 

That  is  the  result  of  the  Geneva  Conference  in  1925. 

In  referring  to  the  date  of  January,  192G,  I  think  that  date  is 
important  when  you  realize  when  the  convention  was  held. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Mr.  Chairman,  I  think  I  can  conclude  on 
this  matter  in  about  15  minutes. 

Referring  now  to  this  method  of  procedure  of  sales,  I  call  at- 
tention to  the  Polish  proposal  made  some  time  subsequent  to  1924, 
and  I  call  attention  to  the  next  exhibit,  which  will  be  given  an  ap- 
propriate number,  which  is  cable  No.  184. 

(The  cablegram  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  945  ",  and 
appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Vandenberg.  This  is  a  cable  from  Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont, 
on  April  25,  1924,  and  reads : 

Cable  No.  184. 

Negotiations  with  Poland  powder  plant  proposition  requires  instructions 
in  manufacture  flake  I.M.R.  powder.  Ask  Chief  of  Ordnance,  Army,  for  per- 
mission in  writing  to  give  these  instructions  and  telegraph  result. 

Is  that  the  I.M.R.  powder  that  was  described  in  the  previous 
testimony  ? 

83876 — 35 — pt  11 5 


2456  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Casey.  No  ;  flake  powder  was  a  type  of  powder  we  made  on  a 
few  occasions  similar  to, the  powder  made  by  the  German  company 
Koln-Rottweiler,  but  made  in  a  different  way  because  we  have  not 
their  equipment. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  It  has  no  relation  to  the  I.M.R.  powder  that 
the  War  Department  declined  to  let  you  release? 

Mr.  Casey.  No  more  relation  than  our  I.M.R.  powder  had  to 
earlier  forms  of  progressive-burning  powders  in  Europe. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  do  not  know  what  that  is.  Your  answer 
is  there  is  no  relation  here? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  want  to  make  a  flat  statement  that  there  is 
no  relation,  because  all  progressive-burning  rifle  powders  work  on 
one  principle;  that  is,  a  deterrent  on  the  outside  of  the  powder  to 
move  the  pressure  curve  down  the  barrel  rather  than  have  it  at  the 
breech.     That  is  the  principle  of  a  progressive-burning  rifle  powder. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  The  answer  is  in  the  next  exhibit,  which  will 
be  marked. 

(The  document  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  946",  and 
appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Vandenberg.  It  is  a  cable  to  Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont  on 
April  29,  1924: 

[Felix  Cable  No.  97] 

Refer  to  your  telegram  no.  184,  have  letter  in  hand  from  Chief  of  Ordnance 
authorizing  us  to  assist  and  instruct  Poland  in  manufacture  of  flake  rifle 
powder  and  other  military  powders  are  mailing  to  you  today  copy  of  letter. 

In  other  words,  the  Chief  of  Ordnance  authorizes  you  to  assist 
in  the  construction  of  this  powder  factory  in  Poland  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  And  to  use  your  flake  I.M.R.  powder 
processes  in  that  connection? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes.     - 

Senator  Vandenberg.  And  the  alloy  of  our  own  War  Depart- 
ment in  this  same  connection  is  emphasized  in  this  same  trans- 
action, not  only  by  the  authority  given  you  by  the  Chief  of  Ord- 
nance but  also  by  a  sentence  which  I  will  read  from  the  next 
exhibit,  which  is  C.  I.  B.  Henning's  report  under  date  of  April  29, 
1924.  from  Washington. 

(The  report  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  947  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2593.) 

Senator  Vandenberg.  In  which  he  says : 

The  flake  rifle  powder  situation  was  emphasized,  and  apparent  contra- 
dictions were  cleared  up. 

Perhaps  these  contradictions  were  the  same  things  that  confused 
me  regarding  I.  M.  R.  powder  [reading]  : 

Even  before  seeing  our  letter,  General  Ruggles  had  dictated  an  endorsement, 
relating  to  the  military  attache's  cable,  stating  that  it  was  vastly  more  im- 
portant to  encourage  the  du  Pont  Co.  to  continue  in  the  manufacui'e  of 
propellants  for  military  use,  than  to  endeavor  to  protect  secrets  relating  to 
the  manufacture. 

Who  was  General  Ruggles  at  this  time  ? 
Mr.  Casey.  Assistant  Chief  of  Ordnance. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  This  is  the  same  General  Ruggles  who  later 
was  a  United  States  delegate  to  the  Geneva  Conference  in  1925? 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2457 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  General  Euggles  is  quoted  as  asserting  the 
policy  of  the  United  States  Government  that  it  is  vastly  more  im- 
portant to  encourage  the  du  Pont  Co.  to  continue  in  the  manufac- 
ture of  propellants  for  military  use  than  to  endeavor  to  protect 
secrets  relating  to  the  manufacture.  And  the  personification  of  this 
opinion  is  the  fact  that  they  at  the  moment  permitted  you  to  make 
this  arrangement  with  Poland. 

Mr.  Casey.  To  try  to  make. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  To  try  to  make  this  arrangement  with 
Poland. 

Mr.  Casey.  There  is  an  awful  difference  there,  Senator. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  suppose  there  is.  I  found  that  out  by  the 
cross-examination. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  You  asked  some  time  ago  whether  the  pro- 
hibition on  the  giving  of  the  secrets  of  the  I.  M.  R.  powder  had  ever 
been  reversed  in  writing.  At  that  time  it  was  a  rather  unsatisfactory 
answer.    I  think  this  does  answer  that  the  letter  was  written. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  But  this  refers  to  I.  M.  R.  flake  powder. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Yes ;  and  other  military  powders. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Do  you  think  that  includes  I.  M.  R..  flake  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know.  This  includes  the  manufac- 
ture of  flake  rifle  powder  and  other  military  powders. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Do  you  read  that  as  a  reversal  of  the  atti- 
tude? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  sounds  like  it.  I  know  nothing  about  it, 
but  I  just  wanted  to  call  your  attention  to  it. 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator,  I  think  I  can  explain  why  General  Ruggles 
took  that  position.  We  made  an  arrangement  with  General  Williams, 
as  Chief  of  Ordnance,  in  1919,  and  it  was  based  on  this :  I  had  just 
heard  the  rumor  in  Wilmington  that  the  directors  of  the  company 
were  considering  going  out  of  the  powder  business.  They  had  a  great 
many  reasons  why.  There  was  the  Government  with  the  two  finest 
powder  plants  in  the  world.  Old  Hickory  and  Nitro.  There  were 
tremendous  stocks  of  powder  left  over  from  the  war.  It  did  not 
seem  feasible,  nor  possible,  that  there  would  be  any  further  occasion, 
for  some  years  to  come  at  least,  for  us  to  be  in  the  powder  business. 
When  I  heard  that  I  simply  said  to  General  Williams,  "  This  is  what 
is  being  talked  of  ",  and  that  started  a  letter  from  General  Williams, 
which  resulted  in  an  agreement  of  September  25.  Now,  I  think  you 
will  find — Mr.  Raushenbush,  you  pulled  all  that. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Yes;  we  have  all  that. 

Mr.  Casey.  You  have  all  that? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Yes. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  believe  those  letters  should  be  read  into  the  record 
at  this  time. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  At  the  proper  time  they  will  be. 

Mr.  Casey.  Then,  if  they  will  be  put  in  the  record,  let  me  just  give 
you  an  idea  of  what  it  means.  General  Williams  said  he  thought  it 
would  be  a  serious  blow  to  the  national  defense  if  the  du  Pont  Co., 
with  its  vast  reservoir  of  technical  information  and  know-how,  were 
to  lose  interest  in  the  production  of  military  propellants  particularly, 
and  likewise  the  possible  effect  it  might  have  on  the  national  defense 
in  time  of  emergency. 


2458  MUisriTioNS  industry 

At  that  time,  as  the  result  of  experiences  during  the  war,  the  result 
of  the  report  of  the  Westervelt  Board,  there  were  something  like 
two  hundred  and  seventy-five  odd  problems  to  be  solved  in  con- 
nection with  military  propellants  and  explosives. 

As  a  result  of  that  we  said,  "  Well,  we  will  try  it.  We  will  con- 
tinue going."  At  the  same  time  General  Williams  said  he,  however, 
could  not  promise  to  give  us  any  business,  but  he  hoped  we  would 
stick  by  the  crowd.  The  fact  of  the  matter  remains  that  we  did  not 
get  any  business  from  the  Government,  and  then  only  in  very  small 
quantities,  for  several  years  to  come. 

I  think  a  little  prior  to  this  date  of  1924,  or  it  may  have  been  at 
the  same  time  or  slightly  after,  I  know  there  was  a  newspaper  article 
that  said  something  about  du  Pont  going  out  of  the  powder  business, 
and  Irenee  du  Pont  received  a  letter  from  General  Williams  hoping 
that  that  rumor  was  incorrect  and  asking  him  if  we  would  still  not 
continue  in  the  game. 

Now,  from  our  own  viewpoint  in  the  entire  smokeless  powder 
department,  we  never  knew  at  any  time,  in  spite  of  this  arrangement 
whereby  they  would  see  the  proposition  probably  so  far  in  the 
future,  but  what  we  might  all  be  out  of  jobs. 

So  you  can  readily  see,  in  view  of  the  fact  that  improvements  in 
material  of  this  type  are  taking  place  daily,  that  they  considered  it 
was  more  important  to  keep  us  in  the  game,  because  if  you  gave 
information  under  such  an  arrangement  as  suggested  here  this  year, 
the  whole  thing  might  be  radically  changed  by  something  that  took 
place  in  the  course  of  the  next  year. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  So  we  find  ourselves  in  this  position:  The 
instrumentalities  of  defense  are  constantly  improving  from  day  to 
day. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  And  as  rapidly  as  we  make  improvements 
over  here,  these  improvements  presumably  giving  us  an  advantage 
in  our  defense,  we  are  in  the  anomolous  position  of  being  forced  to 
let  the  other  fellows  have  the  advantages  which  we  had  obtained  for 
ourselves,  in  order  to  keep  our  munitions  manufacturers  going,  so 
that  we  can  take  advantage  of  the  same  progressive  steps? 

Mr.  Casey.  Well,  I  don't  know.  I  think  that  is  stating  it  a  little 
crudely. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  think  it  is  worse  than  crude.  If  you  can 
state  it  any  plainer,  I  wish  you  would.    But  you  get  my  idea. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Isn't  that  true.  Senator,  in  practically  every 
technical  manufacturing  process?  Take  the  automobile  manufac- 
turners,  when  they  bring  out  new  ideas,  they  are  passed  on  to  the 
other  fellows. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Yes;  but  there  is  a  vast  difference  there. 
T  suppose  the  automobile  is  a  dangerous  weapon  under  some  cir- 
3umstances,  but  there  is  no  analogy,  as  I  view  the  situation — and  I 
do  not  mean  to  enter  any  personal  opinions  in  this  testimony,  but 
you  have  raised  the  point — I  don't  think  there  is  any  analogy  be- 
tween private  cars,  in  the  normal  sense,  and  the  munitions  trade, 
because  the  making  of  private  cars  involves  only  a  commercial 
aspect,  whereas  the  munitions  trade  involves  the  life,  and  the  trade 
of  the  country  indirectly,  and  the  physical  life  and  death  of  its 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2459 

people.  So  you  cannot  consider  them  in  parallels.  It  seems  to  me 
we  now  have  the  amazing  proposition  that  as  an  abstract  proposi- 
tion wlien  the  United  States  perfects  a  new  advantage  in  the  art  of 
self-defense,  we  must  sooner  or  later  impart  that  knowledge  to  all 
the  rest  of  the  nations  of  the  earth,  which  must  include  our  potential 
enemies  against  whom  we  are  attempting  to  set  up  our  defense  in 
prospect.  We  must  impart  this  advantageous  information  to  our 
potential  enemies,  or  our  private  munitions  manufacturers  in  the 
United  States  will  be  unable  to  continue  to  arm  us  with  this  ad- 
vantageous thing.  It  seems  to  me  that  that  is  the  proposition  which 
we  confront. 

The  Chairman.  Doesn't  it  come  to  this  in  just  a  word :  That  we 
must  arm  the  world  under  this  practice,  so  that  we  can  have  the 
capacity  to  take  care  of  ourselves  in  an  emergency,  when  and  if  the 
world  decides  to  use  our  devices  against  us  ?  I  don't  think  there  is 
a  more  thorough  argument  against  the  private  manufacturer  of 
munitions  than  that  one  to  which  you  have  just  directed  yourself, 
Senator. 

Mr.  Caset.  Senator  Nye,  a  military  secret  is  a  secret  for  only 
about  2  years. 

The  Chairman.  Less  than  that  very  often,  is  it  not? 

Mr.  Casey.  No;  I  am  saying  a  government  secret  like  you  talk 
about  is  a  secret  for  only  about  2  years,  because  just  as  soon  as  tests 
are  made  it  does  not  take  long  for  the  thing  to  drift  around. 

The  Chairman.  How  do  you  account  for  the  drifting  around? 

Mr.  Casey.  Does  not  our  Government  maintain  and  every  other 
foreign  government  maintain  military  and  naval  attaches? 

The  Chairman.  Yes. 

Mr.  Casey.  What  is  their  job? 

The  Chairman.  You  think  that  that  is  their  job? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  ask  you  the  question,  what  is  their  job  ? 

The  Chairman.  I  do  not  know.    What  is  their  job  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  To  get  information. 

The  Chairman.  You  think  they  are  the  ones  who  get  the  infor- 
mation and  convey  it  back  home  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  has  nothing  whatsover  to  do  with  private  manu- 
facture. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  had  a  number  of  other  exhibits  which  I 
was  going  to  introduce  bearing  upon  your  negotiations  with  the 
Dutch  Government  and  with  the  Belgian  Government,  in  each  in- 
stance simply  typifying  this  same  general  situation  which  we  ap- 
parently now  confront,  namely,  that  in  return  for  technical  assistance 
in  establishing  their  own  munitions  institutions,  if  you  are  given 
interim  orders  that  are  adequate,  you  are  perfectly  willing  to  set 
them  up  in  business. 

Mr.  Casey.  Don't  say  we  are. 

Senator  Vandenberg,  Who  shall  I  say  is  willing  to  set  them  up 
in  business? 

Mr.  Casey.  Say  the  Government  is  walling  to  have  us  do  it,  pro- 
vided we  get  production.  The  Government  has  absolutely  no  in- 
terest  

Senator  Vandenberg.  Exactly. 

Mr.  Casey.  In  our  building  a  plant  in  a  foreign  country. 


2460  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  understand.  I  am  simply  coming  to  this 
conclusion :  If  this  thing  then  is  carried  to  its  ultimate  conclusion 
and  your  prophecies  are  correct,  it  is  only  a  matter  of  a  short  time 
when  you  will  have,  assuming  that  the  system  works  as  you  expect 
it  to  work,  when  you  will  have  or  somebody  else  will  have  assisted 
all  of  these  foreign  countries  to  become  self-dependent  in  respect  to 
these  supplies  and  you  will  be  out  of  the  export  business. 

Mr.  Casey.  There  is  no  doubt  of  that  last  part. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  That  is  the  ultimate  result  of  the  forces 
that  are  at  work,  if  they  work  as  you  contemplated  they  would  work. 

Mr.  Casey.  Let  me  remind  you.  Senator,  there,  that  it  is  self- 
evident  from  these  reports  of  Taylor's,  that  what  they  wanted  assist- 
ance on  was  in  reality  on  improving  their  own  type  of  powder. 
France  took  enormous  quantities  of  our  powder  during  the  war,  but 
they  have  never  made,  as  far  as  I  know,  a  bit  of  that  powder  since. 
They  still  believe  in  their  own  type  of  powder.  That  will  apply 
throughout  Europe.  The  fact  remains,  as  stated,  that  there  is  not 
one  nation  in  Europe  making  the  du  Pont  type  of  powder,  even 
though  they  were  given  the  information  to  make  certain  types  of 
powder  during  the  war. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  But  the  thing  I  am  trying  abstractly  to 
establish  is  that  the  American  export  business  in  powder,  if  not  al- 
ready at  an  end,  will  be  at  an  end  just  as  soon  as  this  self-sustaining 
manufacturing  activity  has  been  concluded  in  the  other  countries. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  so. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  And  it  is  the  policy  of  your  company  now 
to  contribute  to  the  making  of  these  countries  self-sustaining? 

Mr.  Casey.  No. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Oh,  yes.  You  are  perfectly  willing  to  give 
them  technical  assistance  in  establishing  their  own  factories,  so  long 
as  you  have  the  interim  orders  for  powder. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  don't  think  that  is  quite  a  fair  statement. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  want  it  to  be  fair.     What  is  the  statement? 

Mr.  Casey.  Here  is  the  summary  of  the  situation,  put  up  by  Tay- 
lor, the  way  tlie  future  looks  to  him.  He  has  shovrn  that  the  Geneva 
Conference  of  1925  resulted  in  this  tremendous  expansion  in  all 
Europe,  where  they  all  began  to  realize  if  that  did  not  take  effect 
then  ultimately  it  would  be  at  the  place  where  every  nation  would 
have  to  be  self-supporting,  as  far  as  plants  were  concerned. 

There  is  this  distinction,  however,  that  certain  nations,  in  spite  of 
the  fact  they  have  their  own  plants,  would  still  be  dependent  on 
imports  to  operate  those  plants.  For  instance,  how  many  nations  of 
the  world  produce  cotton?  And  cotton  is  the  very  backbone  of 
powder.  How  many  nations  would  have  to  import  fuel,  whether  it 
is  in  the  form  of  coal  or  oil?  How  many  nations  would  have  to 
import  toluol  for  the  manufacture  of  TNT  ? 

That  is  why  in  a  great  many  cases  this  race  for  putting  up  their 
own  plants  went  into  effect  as  the  result  of  the  Geneva  Conference. 
In  a  great  many  cases  in  these  nations  a  powder  plant  was  the  last 
thing  in  the  world  they  would  want,  because  when  they  actually 
needed  material  in  time  of  war  they  would  be  up  aganist  the  same 
problem  that  England  faced  in  the  World  War,  the  question  of 
tonnage.     It  is  better  to  use  every  bit  of  tonnage  you  have  to  import 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2461 

something  you  can  use  rather  than  to  use  from  9  to  15  times  that 
tonnage  in  order  to  then  have  a  net  result  of  1  ton. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  think  we  are  through  for  this  morning. 

The  Chairman.  The  committee  will  be  in  recess  until  1 :  30. 

(At  12 :  15  p.m.  the  committee  recessed  to  1 :  30  p.m.  of  the  same 
day.) 

AFTERNOON    SESSION 

(The  committee  reconvened  at  1 :  30  p.m.) 

TESTIMONY  OF  K.  K.  V.  CASEY,  lEENEE  DTJ  PONT,  LAMMOT  DU 
PONT,  W.  R.  SWINT,  A.  FELIX  DU  PONT,  AND  DR.  FIN  SPAERE— 
Resumed 

EXCHANGE  OF  TECHNICAL  INFORMATION  BY  MUNITIONS  COMPANIES 

The  Chairman.  The  committee  will  be  in  order. 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator  Nye 

The  Chairman.  Just  a  moment,  please.  The  committee  is  having 
to  announce  that  by  reason  of  the  illness  of  Senator  Clark  it  is  not 
going  to  be  possible  for  the  committee  to  go  on  with  the  intended 
program  of  this  afternoon.  Except  for  a  little  finishing  up  on  the 
case  that  Senator  Vandenberg  had  in  hand  this  morning  and  such 
statements  as  the  Chair  understands  witnesses  wish  to  make,  the  com- 
mittee will  recess  until  Monday  very  early  this  afternoon. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Major  Casey,  just  one  further  exhibit.  In 
respect  to  this  question  of  the  interchange  of  information,  and 
whether  or  not  it  involves  military  processes,  I  show  you  a  letter 
from  C.  A.  Woodbury,  director.     Who  is  Mr.  Woodbury? 

Mr.  Casey.  He  is  chemical  director  of  the  explosives  department, 
of  which  I  loiow  very  little. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  948  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2594.) 

Senator  Vandenberg.  This  is  Director  Woodbury  writing  under 
date  of  November  10,  1933,  to  Mr.  W.  R.  Swint,  director,  foreign 
relations  department,  and  dealing,  as  it  states,  with  du  Pont  LCI. 
patents  and  processes  agreement.     I  read  : 

In  answer  tO'  the  questions  contained  in  your  letter  of  November  2: 
1.  We  have  received  no  valuable  assistance  from  I.C.I,  on  new  products  or 
new  processes,  but  have  had  valuable  assistance  along  the  line  of  improvements 
in  existing  processes  in  two  instances:   (a)  In  the  process  for  refining  TNT 
and  (6)  the  complete  process  for  manufacturing  tetryl. 

Are  not  TNT  and  tetryl  military  instrumentalities  ? 
^  Mr.  Casey.  Partly  so,  but  tetryl  has  a  tremendous  use  in  peace 
time  in  blasting  caps. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  How  about  TNT  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is  also  used  in  the  manufacture  of  Cordeau  Bick- 
ford  and  likewise  used  in  certain  commercial  explosives. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  It  is  primarily  a  war  explosive,  is  it? 

Mr.  Casey.  Not  in  the  sense  used  here,  because  the  question  of  war 
explosives  is  a  question  of  melting  point.  In  other  words,  you  may 
have  a  TNT  with  a  very  low  melting  point  which  will  have  no  use 
whatever  for  military  purposes.     I  am  talking  now,  understand,  on 


2462  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

something  that  is  really  out  of  my  bailiwick.  I  think  somebody 
else  ought  to  handle  this  proposition. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  am  not  sure  but  what  I  am.  doing  the 
same  thing,  Major. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  might  make  statements  which  are  absolutely  incor- 
rect.   All  I  was  giving  you  was  just  my  own  understanding. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  was  struck  as  I  read  this  with  the  im- 
pression that  this  would  indicate  an  exchange  either  of  information 
directly  relating  to  military  propellants 

Mr.  Casey.  Not  propellants.     High  explosives. 

Senator  Vandeberg.  Explosives,  or,  at  least,  to  explosives  that 
have  had  a  major  military  purpose  and  use.  Am  I  wrong  about 
that? 

Mr.  Casey.  Wouldn't  it  be  better  to  have  somebody  else  answer 
that? 

Mr.  SwiNT.  I  am  the  man  to  whom  this  communication  was 
addressed. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  You  were  sworn  yesterday? 

Mr.  SwiNT.  Yes. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Wliat  is  the  answer  to  that  question,  then? 

Mr.  SwiNT.  The  answer  is  no,  Wliile  these  explosives  are  used 
in  military  explosives,  in  peace  time  they  are  not  used  for  military 
purposes  and  they  have  a  very  large  use  in  ordinary  industrial 
explosives. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  What  explosives  are  exclusively  military? 
Any? 

Mr.  SwiNT.  I  suppose  some  of  the  military  propellants  would  not 
have  any  use  in  industrial  explosives  or  as  industrial  explosives. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Would  it  be  fair  to  say  that  an  exchange 
of  information  regarding  nonmilitarj^  explosives  in  peace  time  would 
exchange  information  which  would  become  of  value  in  war  time? 
Is  that  a  fair  statement? 

Mr.  SwiNT.  That  is  a  fair  statement  to  the  same  extent  that  ex- 
changing information  on  all  other  commodities  applies. 

Mr,  Vandenberg.  I  understand,  but  whether  the  analogy  is  justi- 
fied is  a  matter  of  argument,  and  we  will  not  argue  it.  I  am  simply 
asking  the  general  question:  The  exchange  of  information  regard- 
ing explosives  that  are  peace-time  explosives  in  peace  time,  could  be 
of  value,  could  it  not,  in  war  time? 

Mr.  SwiNT.  Yes;  with  that  same  qualification. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Now,  Dr.  Sparre,  you  said  this  morning  in 
the  recess  that  there  w^as  some  comment  you  wanted  to  offer  sup- 
plementary to  your  testimony  this  morning. 

Dr.  Sparre,  Yes. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  We  would  be  very  glad  to  have  you  say 
what  you  wanted  to  say. 

Dr.  Sparre.  Just  a  few  comments  to  supplement  Major  Casey's 
statements  in  regard  to  I.  M.  R.  especially. 

I  think  the  first  idea  in  regard  to  that  type  of  powder  came  up  in 
1905,  but  no  use  was  made  of  it.  It  was  an  incomplete  invention,  if 
you  call  it  that. 

We  obtained  information  from  Germany  in  1908  and  1909  in  re- 
gard to  their  types  of  improved  military  powder,  namely,  the  flake 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTKY  2463 

powder  which  Major  Casey  referred  to.  That  information  we  re- 
ceived and  we  paid  for  it,  and  we  gave  no  information  to  the 
Germans.  We  inspected  their  factory,  but  we  gave  them  no  informa- 
tion, because  they  were  not  interested  in  the  standard  types  of 
military  powder  which  we  manufactured. 

During  the  war  when  I  went  over  with  the  military  mission,  there 
had  already  preceded  me  to  England  the  Mr.  Henning  referred  to 
in  the  testimony  heretofore,  who  was  our  ballistics  engineer,  as  well 
as  a  man  very  well  versed  in  all  branches  of  military  powder  manu- 
facture. The  officials  of  the  British  Munitions  Commission  compli- 
mented Mr.  Henning  very  highly  for  the  complete  cooperation  he 
gave  them,  at  the  orders  of  the  American  Chief  of  Ordnance.  When 
1  came  over  there  they  mentioned  it  to  me.  He  was  nominally  my 
subordinate  at  that  time. 

There  had  already  preceded  me  over  there  Mr.  Jackson,  a  construc- 
tion engineer,  and  the  orders  from  the  Chief  of  Ordnance  were  to 
construct  plants  in  accordance  with  our  practice.  I  gave  some  in- 
formation as  well.  Therefore,  they  had  complete  information,  both 
from  a  construction  standpoint,  a  ballistics  standpoint,  and  every- 
thing else,  in  regard  to  the  manufacture  of  our  I.M.R.  powder  and 
the  state  of  the  art  at  that  time.  The  only  thing  which  they  had 
not  at  that  time  were  the  licenses  under  patents,  but  during  the  war 
time  we  did  not  pay  any  attention  to  patent  rights.  But  there  was 
absolutely  no  military  information  given  to  the  British  or  French  or 
anybody  else  that  I  know  of  except  under  orders  from  the  American 
administration. 

Now,  I  visited  foreign  powder  factories  several  times  during  the 
years  I  have  been  with  the  company.  I  have  never  given  any  mili- 
tary information  to  anybody  that  I  know  of.  I  never  heard  of  any- 
body giving  any  military  information.  I  just  do  not  see  how  such 
a  statement  can  be  made.  I  have  been  with  du  Pont  for  31  years 
and  never  heard  of  it.  I  was  in  charge  of  the  Central  Laboratory 
for  the  du  Pont  Co.  for  many  years.  I  have  been  for  many  years 
in  their  development  department.  It  is  a  mystery  to  me  how  the 
statement  can  be  made. 

Of  course,  this  is  an  art  which  very  few  people  understand.  This 
art  is  not  taught  in  colleges  or  universities.  You  have  got  to  be  in 
the  industry  to  understand  it.  There  is  a  considerable  overlapping 
of  military  explosives  and  commercial  explosives,  as  far  as  the 
fundamentals  are  concerned.  By  that  I  mean,  that  is  largely  as  far 
as  economics  are  concerned. 

Now,  when  you  mention  TNT,  the  valuable  information  there  of 
which  we  now  talk  about  is  whether  we  can  cut  the  cost  of  manufac- 
ture a  quarter  of  a  cent  a  pound,  or  something  of  that  sort.  When 
we  come  to  the  military  use  of  TNT,  you  require  a  very  high  degree 
of  purity  in  order  to  be  acceptable  to  the  military  authorities.  I  do 
not  know  that  we  ever  exchanged  information  on  that  type  of  TNT, 
but  only  on  the  type  which  is  used  in  commercial  explosives,  which 
is  of  lower  degree  purity. 

Of  course,  during  the  war  I  saw  the  manufacture  in  both  France 
and  England  of  the  military  type  of  TNT,  and  w^e  got  complete 
knowledge  of  their  manufacture  of  TNT  during  the  war,  and  I 
dare  say  they  got  our  information,  too;  but,  as  a  matter  of  fact, 


2464  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

we  got  the  TNT  information  from  the  British  and  the  French.  We 
did  not  manufacture  TNT  until  we  got  the  information  from  the 
British  and  the  Germans  before  the  war.  It  was  an  unknown  manu- 
facture to  us.  We  acquired  that  knowledge  and  we  paid  for  it.  We 
have  acquired  a  great  deal  of  military  information  from  the  other 
companies  and  paid  for  it.  I  do  not  know  of  any  information  which 
we  have  given  them.  I  would  like  to  have  pointed  out  to  me  what 
information  it  is.  The  statement  has  been  made  that  we  have  sold 
military  secrets.  You  know  more  about  military  secrets  than  I  do  if 
you  can  make  that  statement.  I  will  ask  you  to  please  tell  me  what 
it  is.     I  never  heard  of  it. 

The  Chairman.  I  see  what  you  are  worrying  about.  What  I  am 
wondering  about  is  whether  there  is  any  such  thing  as  a  military 
secret.     I  do  not  know  that  we  have  run  into  one  yet. 

Dr.  Sparre.  I  certainly  think  there  are  military  secrets.  There 
is  no  doubt  about  it. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Are  there  any  military  secrets,  Doctor,  when 
we  find  General  Ruggles  stating  to  your  representative  that  he  is 
perfectly  willing  to  part  with  any  so-called  "  improved  and  tempo- 
rary secret  processes  "  that  the  Government  possesses,  so  long  as  it  is 
necessary  to  keep  the  du  Pont  Co.  in  business. 

Mr.  Irenee  dtt  Pont.  That  only  referred  to  military  powder. 

Dr.  Sparre.  That  is  not  a  military  secret. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Is  not  a  military  powder,  if  it  is  a  progres- 
sive, improved  thing,  a  distinct  military  secret? 

Dr.  Sparre.  Yes;  but  we  did  not  give  out  any  information  in 
regard  to  the  type  of  military  powder  which  the  United  States 
Government  uses.  We  have  to  remember  that  the  Brazilians  make 
military  powder  of  the  same  general  type;  the  Germans  do:  it  is 
made  in  the  Scandinavian  countries.  They  make  the  particular 
type  of  powder  which  we  call  surface  coated  powder.  We  call  it 
I.M.R.  It  is  a  type  of  powder  which  is  manufactured  in  many, 
many  countries.  We  manufacture  that  powder  of  a  certain  gran- 
ulation. We  have  our  way  of  doing  it.  The  Germans  have 
a  flake  type.  We  have  it  in  the  form  of  small  tubes.  We  have  a 
different  coating  agent.  The  Germans  have  a  coating  agent.  We 
do  not  use  their  coating  agent.  These  may  be  classified  as  military 
secrets,  but  we  did  not  give  the  information  away. 

As  Major  Casey  explained,  we  offered  to  sell  or  did  sell — ^I  have 
forgotten  which — flake  improved  powder.  That  was  the  German 
type  of  powder  which  we  made.  It  was  not  the  American  type,  as 
standardized  by  the  United  States  Government. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  What  were  the  military  explosives  or  mili- 
tary propellents  upon  which  information  was  exchanged  with  Nobel 
in  the  early  twenties,  when  your  legal  department  was  insisting 
that  you  had  to  give  them  everything  you  had?  What  military 
information  did  they  get  at  that  time,  if  any? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  want  to  correct  your  statement  that  the 
legal  department  insisted  that  we  had  to  give  them  everything  we 
had.  That  was  subject  to  Government  approval.  That  contract 
which  was  drawn  up  in  1914  and  carried  over,  I  think,  to  some- 
thing like  1925  or  1923,  specifically  stated  that  it  was  subject  entirely 
to  Government  approval. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2465 

Dr.  Sparre.  Let  me  give  an  example,  Senator  Vandenberg.  You 
asked  the  question,  "What  is  an  exclusively  military  explosive?"  I 
will  just  cite  an  example  that  comes  to  my  mind.  That  is  gun  cotton 
as  used  in  naval  torpedoes.  I  do  not  know  that  it  has  any  commercial 
application.  We  do  not  manufacture  it.  We  could  not  give  informa- 
tion on  it  if  we  did  not  know  anything  about  it. 

Now,  to  show  the  misunderstanding  about  these  things,  I  want  to 
refer,  for  instance,  to  some  testimony  which  Mr.  Raushenbush  intro- 
duced. He  referred  to  certain  sales  of  technical  information  in  re- 
gard to  nitric-acid  plants  which  we  had  sold  to  different  countries. 
We  have  given  that  same  information  to  several  American  companies 
and  to  several  European  companies.  But,  furthermore,  we  published 
complete  information  about  the  principles,  about  the  construction, 
even  photographs  of  the  plant  in  Industrial  and  Engineering  Chem- 
istry in  November  1927,  in  Canadian  Chemistry  and  Metallurgy  in 
November  1930,  and  in  the  Journal  of  Industrial  and  Engineering 
Chemistry  in  August  1931. 

Those  are  publications  which  are  found  in  all  technical  labora- 
tories the  world  over. 

How  that  can  be  called  a  military  secret  I  do  not  know.  In  the 
first  place  it  is  a  commercial  product.  There  is  not  2  percent,  I 
don't  believe,  of  nitric  acid  which  is  used  in  the  manufacture  of 
military  explosives,  except  in  time  of  war  that  percentage  goes  up. 
But  today  98  percent,  about,  of  nitric  acid  is  used  for  purely  commer- 
cial things. 

Furthermore,  the  information  was  all  published.  Wliatever  patents 
we  could  take  out  were  in  accordance  with  American  patent  practice 
also  published.  In  the  first  place,  it  is  not  military,  and  in  the  second 
place  it  is  not  secret. 

Now,  Senator  Vandenberg,  you  also  will  realize  this:  That  the 
American  statutes  encourage  the  taking  out  of  patents,  because  if  an 
inventor  does  not  cover  this  invention  by  a  patent  he  runs  the  risk 
of  losing  the  entire  value  of  his  invention.  In  accordance  with  the 
statutes,  the  inventor  is  compelled  to  submit  a  full,  complete,  precise 
statement  of  his  invention,  involving  such  a  complete  disclosure  that 
anyone  skilled  in  the  art  can  duplicate  the  invention  and  duplicate  the 
product  and  practice  the  invention. 

When  the  American  Patent  Office  accepts  that  invention  as  patent- 
able, the  Patent  Office  publishes  that  information  in  the  United'  States 
Patent  Gazette,  which  is  available  in  practically  all  of  the  libraries 
over  the  world,  and  I  know  from  personal  experience  that  all  of  the 
chemical  companies  over  the  world  take  regularly  that  Patent  Gazette. 
For  10  cents  you  can  get  a  complete  copy  of  the  patent.  Further- 
more, anyone,  whether  he  be  an  American  citizen  or  a  foreigner,  at 
negligible  expense,  writing  into  the  Patent  Office  and  asking  for  a 
complete  copy  of  the  correspondence  between  the  inventor  and  the 
Patent  Office,  can  obtain  it,  and  all  of  the  letters  going  out  for  a 
period  of  years  disclosing  the  thing  completely  are  available  for 
practically  nothing  to  competitors  and  anybody  "else. 

It  is  certainly  an  act  of  common  sense  for  an  inventor  to  apply  for 
a  patent  in  foreign  countries,  because  the  Patent  Office  published  in- 
formation makes  a  gift  of  it  to  anybody.  If  there  are  enemy  coun- 
tries, as  you  suggest,  Senator  Nye,*  they  can  get  the  information  for 


2466  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

nothing.  Why  should  not  an  American  inventor  apply  for  a  patent 
in  foreign  countries?  If  it  is  an  enemy  country,  at  least  you  make 
the  enemy  pay  for  it.  But,  as  you  suggested,  it  Avas  not  even  paid  for. 
How  can  an  American  inventor  or  an  American  Corporation  be  criti- 
cized for  doing  that  thing  which  is  merely  complying  with  the 
American  statutes. 

I  have  been  in  this  business  for  31  years,  and  I  have  been  dealing 
with  literally  thousands  of  patents.  I  suppose  over  my  desk  I 
handle  annually  between  one  and  two  thousand  suggestions  of  new 
developments,  and  I  never  yet  found  any  other  way  of  handling  it 
than  we  are  doing. 

Senator  Nye,  if  you  know  of  a  better  way,  I  will  be  thankful  to 
learn  it,  because  it  would  give  me  great  help  in  handling  this  busi- 
ness; and  yet  it  is  a  very  serious  accusation  which  you  have  made 
against  this  company,  I  take  it  to  heart  personally,  because  it  is  my 
business  to  handle  these  things  and  I  do  not  know  of  any  better  way 
to  handle  them. 

The  Chairman.  Perhaps  we  quibble  over  the  word  "  secret "  too 
much.  It  seems  to  me  that  it  does  not  matter  what  we  call  it. 
The  facts  are  that  there  is  taking  place  daj"^  after  day  the  sale  of 
what  is,  if  not  a  military  secret,  a  military  advantage,  that  is  ours 
here  in  America,  by  reason  of  the  ownership  or  production  of  a  thing 
which  enters  into  national  defense.  It  seems  to  me  that  is  the  thing 
we  are  primarily  concerned  with.  You  ask  what  to  do  about  it. 
Very  frankly,  I  am  uncertain  in  my  own  mind  what  we  can  do 
about  it. 

Dr.  Sparre.  Let  me  make  one  suggestion. 

The  Chairman.  But  the  further  we  move  along  in  this  study  I 
am  very  frank  to  say,  the  more  thoroughly  convinced  I  become  that 
the  business  of  providing  the  national  defense  as  relates  to  the  pri- 
mary things  entering  into  national  defense  ought  to  be  a  government 
owned  and  government  controlled  thing  altogether.  I  do  not  like 
the  idea  in  toto — it  is  an  exceedingly  difficult  thing  to  work  out — but 
you  have  asked  me  the  question,  and  I  am  answering  you,  not  for 
the  committee,  but  only  for  myself.  It  seems  to  me  the  sooner  we 
cease  this  practice  of  arming  all  the  world  so  we  can  have  capacity 
to  fight  the  world  with  when  the  world  turns  on  us  with  those  things 
we  have  sold  them,  the  better  off  we  will  be. 

QUESTION  OF  CONTROL  OF  CHEMICAL,  INDUSTRY  IN  RELATION  TO 
DISARMAMENT 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator  Nj^e,  you  said  a  little  while  ago  you  would 
give  me  permission  to  introchice  into  the  record  a  report  which  was 
in  our  files  but  which  was  not  taken.  It  has  to  do  with  the  question 
of  this  morning's  and  likewise  the  present  subject.  I  would  like  to 
read  it. 

The  Chairman.  Yes. 

Mr.  Casey.  It  is  dated  January  13,  1933,  and  is  a  memorandum 
from  Colonel  Simons : 

Colonel  Taylor  in  his  T-2554  of  December  28,  1932,  forwards  his  annual 
report,  and  comments  on  European  conditions  in  general,  not  only  as  regards 
the  business  outlook,  but  also  as  regards  the  political  and  military  aspects. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2467 

His  comment  on  disarmament  is  of  sucli  interest  and  importance  that  I  extract 
it  for  your  attention  as  follows : 

"  In  view  of  the  very  great  effect  in  Europe  of  the  convention  covering  the 
limitation  of  the  traffic  of  arms,  signed  at  Geneva  in  1925  but  not  ratified,  in 
accelerating  the  construction  of  government  factories  in  Europe,  the  ofti(,'e  has 
been  very  much  concerned  as  to  what  might  be  the  result  of  the  present  dis- 
cussion at  Geneva. 

"  There  is  no  need  to  describe  the  visible  result  of  this  conference  as  this  has 
been  well  covered  by  the  press ;  but  we  have  been  trying  to  find  out  what  the 
real  effect  would  be. 

"  It  is  the  opinion  of  the  military  manufacturers  that  no  limitation  will  be 
put  on  government  manufacture ;  for  example,  in  France,  there  are  300,000 
people  employed  in  the  government  arsenals,  and  nearly  all  these  men  vote 
for  the  socialist  deputies ;  therefore,  while  the  socialist  deputies  with  their 
liberal  doctrines  cry  for  disarmament,  any  attempts  on  the  part  of  the 
French  War  Department  to  close  down  the  government  factories  are  bitterly 
opposed  by  these  same  deputies  on  the  basis  that  it  would  throw  voters  out 
of  work.  In  many  other  countries  the  same  situation  exists,  and  whenever 
there  has  been  a  tendency  on  the  part  of  the  military  administration  to  reduce 
governmental  manufacture,  it  has  been  always  opposed  by  the  Labor  deputies 
on  the  basis  that  it  would  put  men  out  of  work. 

"  It  is,  therefore,  generally  believed  that  there  will  be  no  limitation  to  govern- 
mental manufacture.  The  only  thing  which  will  be  acceptable  to  the  politicians 
is  limitation  on  private  manufacture ;  and  it  is  further  supposed  that  in  case  of 
further  limitation  on  private  manufactui'e,  that  the  present  private  factories, 
such  as  Hotchkiss  in  France  and  Bofors  in  Sweden,  will  be  immediately  trans- 
formed into  governmental  arsenals  and  continued  as  before.  It  is  also  sup- 
posed that  no  limitation  will  be  put  on  the  delivery  of  arms  from  one  govern- 
ment to  a  friendly  government;  hence  there  will  be  some  export  business  from 
the  government  factories. 

"  The  net  result  of  this  conference  so  far  has  been  the  tendency  on  the  part 
of  the  governments  to  develop  governmental  manufacturers  and  to  spend  their 
money  at  home. 

"  There  is  also  a  tendency,  which  does  not  affect  the  armament  business,  for 
the  military  advisers  to  devise  suggestions  destined  to  obtain  military  advan- 
tages for  their  respective  countries.  One  of  the  motives  back  of  the  French 
proposal,  that  all  countries  should  establish  a  conscription  is  to  upset  the  pres- 
ent German  system  of  handling  their  Reichswehr.  The  Reichswehr  is  limited  to 
100,000  men  of  12  years'  enlistment  and  it  would  appear  reasonable  to  suppose 
that  there  should  be  at  present  a  number  of  soldiers  around  the  ages  of  33  or 
34 ;  the  fact  is  that  when  one  meets  a  soldier  of  the  Reichswehr  he  is  a  young 
man  in  the  early  twenties,  and  it  is  pretty  well  accepted  that  there  are  several 
men  available  under  the  same  name  and  hence  training  much  larger  number  of 
men  than  permitted.  The  French  feel  that  this  is  a  more  dangerous  system 
than  general  conscription.  Both  the  French  and  German  proposals  for  disarma- 
ment are  simply  jockeying  to  get  a  favorable  situation." 

In  view  of  the  newspaper  reports  that  the  Swedish  Government  has  taken 
steps  to  nationalize  Bofors  and  in  view  of  the  reports  in  today's  paper  of  the 
larger  exports  from  France  by  Hotchkiss  and  by  Schneider,  it  would  appear  that 
the  proposed  American  embargo  on  munitions  is  simply  a  method  of  destroying 
American  competition  and  turning  over  a  free  field  to  continental  competitors. 

Aiken  Simons. 

Now,  incidentally,  at  the  previous  hearing  there  was  considerable 
to-do  about  a  report  of  Colonel  Simons  dated  January  17,  1933.  where 
he  went  around  and  saw  a  Major  Brown  and  he  saw  General  Moseley 
and  he  tried  to  see  Secretary  Payne  and  others,  and  he  also  went  to 
the  Bureau  of  Ordnance,  but  this  is  the  memorandum  that  Colonel 
Simons  took  around,  and  you  can  readily  see  that,  not  as  inferred  at 
the  previous  hearing,  that  it  had  something  to  do  with  trying  to 
block  or  interfere  with  the  disarmament  conference,  but  it  was  simply 
giving  what  our  people  thought  was  the  tendency  in  Europe. 

I  would  like  to  have  that  made  thoroughly  clear.  I  would  like  to 
have  that  put  in  the  record. 


2468  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

The  Chairman.  Did  you  read  the  entire  thing? 

Mr.  Casey.  The  entire  thing. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Of  course,  Major,  you  have  been  reading  this, 
offering  it,  and  it  has  been  accepted,  and  it  is  in  a  way  your  exhibit, 
which  you  ascribe  to  the  situation.  Both  you  and  Dr.  Sparre  refer 
to  evidence  brought  in  in  September.  It  is  quite  simple  for  each  one 
of  you  to  remember  all  of  your  testimony,  but  we,  on  the  other  hand, 
are  supposed  to  remember  the  testimony  of  50  people.  So  it  is  diffi- 
cult, without  the  books  in  front  of  us  to  go  back  and  recall  exactly 
what  was  said.  I  think  later  on  we  will  come  into  some  of  the  points 
Dr.  Sparre  made.  For  instance,  about  the  amount  of  peace-time  ma- 
terial that  can  be  war-time  material,  I  think  we  will  accept  at  first 
blush  without  question  your  statement  that  in  peace  there  is  very  little 
war-time  material,  but  that  in  war  it  gets  to  be  war  material.  There 
is  nothing  startling  about  that  one  way  or  the  other. 

The  point  made,  as  I  remember  it,  roughly,  in  September,  was 
that  these  were  also  war  possibilities,  and  it  was  brought  out  again 
yesterday  that  immediately  after  the  war  your  own  people  were 
saying  that  the  disarmament  would  be  a  farce  unless  that  huge 
arsenal  of  I.G.  was  either  destroyed  or  scattered  around  the  world. 

If  you  wish,  we  can  let  that  argument  go  for  a  few  days. 

Dr.  Sparre.  I  wish  you  would  not  let  it  go.  I  made  yesterday  an 
incomplete  statement,  for  reasons  which  I  will  tell  you,  and  I  wish 
now  to  take  this  opportunity,  since  you  brought  it  up,  to  complete 
my  statement  of  yesterday,  which  I  think  is  of  importance,  certainly 
to  us. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Will  you  just  let  me  finish  with  Major  Casey's 
memorandum  for  a  moment.  It  is  only  a  brief  comment,  and  then  I 
am  through  with  that. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  It  seems  to  me  the  whole  thing  is  coming 
back  now  into  the  specific  field  of  exhibits,  and  we  have  none  of  our 
exhibits  here,  and  we  are  not  prepared  to  go  ahead  this  afternoon. 
I  think  perhaps  we  better  postpone  the  discussion  of  these  cases. 

The  Chairman.  We  are  going  to  move  directly  into  that  field 
Monday,  Doctor. 

Dr.  Sparre.  The  reason  why  I  mention  it  now  is  this:  That  my 
testimony  is  incomplete  and  I  think  your  committee  should  have  my 
complete  statement  before  you  start  the  next  hearing  on  this  subject. 
It  won't  take  me  long  to  put  it  in,  because  I  wrote  it  out  to  be  sure  it 
would  go  very  quickly. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Why  don't  you  file  it.  Dr.  Sparre,  with  what- 
ever exhibits  you  have  from  your  own  files  to  back  it  up,  and  then  we 
can  study  it  and  have  it  before  us  until  Monday  ? 

Dr.  Sparre.  Mr.  Raushenbush,  you  know  how  it  is.  We  have  been 
asked  to  tell  the  truth  and  the  whole  truth,  and  I  do  not  like  the  idea 
of  being  asked  to  tell  a  part  truth,  because  I  know  in  these  questions 
a  part  trutli  is  worse  than  nothing  at  all,  and  I  would  like  to  tell  the 
whole  truth.     If  you  don't  want  that,  I  will  keep  quiet. 

The  Chairman.  The  only  thought  is  that  we  are  leading  into  some- 
thing which  is  bound  to  stretch  out  this  afternoon,  how  long  no  one 
knows,  on  a  ground  we  will  have  to  go  over  again  Monday,  when 
Senator  Clark,  who  is  in  charge  of  that  particular  matter,  will  be 
here.    Why  don't  you  malce  that  statement  then? 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2469 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont,  May  I  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that 
Dr.  Sparre  was  testifying  earlier  today  and  he  was  interrupted  by  a 
member  of  your  Committee  and  was  not  allowed  to  continue.  You 
surely  will  not  deny  him  the  privilege  of  reading  that  statement. 

The  Chairman.  I  suppose  if  it  is  in  connection  with  testimony 
that  was  being  offered  this  morning — I  am  not  aware  of  the  incident 
myself. 

Dr.  Sparre.  No  ;  this  is  in  connection  with  testimony  of  yesterday 
afternoon. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  was  not  this  morning.     It  was  yesterday. 

Dr.  Sparre.  But  we  adjourned  very  early  and  I  gave  an  incom- 
plete statement. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  did  not  realize  at  the  time  that  is  was  incom- 
plete. 

Dr.  Sparre.  It  was. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Do  you  feel,  Dr.  Sparre,  that  it  would  be 
an  injustice  to  postpone  your  statement  until  Monday? 

Dr.  Sparre.  I  would  say  there,  if  you  give  me  the  opportunity  to 
start  out  with  the  statement  at  the  next  hearing,  before  anything 
else  is  said  or  done  about  that  situation,  I  will  be  satisfied. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  think  that  is  preferable,  because  I  would 
like  to  have  Senator  Clark  here,  who  is  in  charge  of  that  phase  of  it. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  But,  Mr.  Chairman,  the  continuity  of  the 
thing  is  lost.  I  would  like  to  hear  the  rest  of  it.  I  cannot  see  why 
so  early  in  the  afternoon  we  should  not  hear  the  rest  of  the  statement. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  You  are  familiar  with  the  statement,  aren't 
you? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  No  ;  I  am  not.  I  do  not  know  a  thing  about 
it.     I  just  got  back  from  New  York  this  morning. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  am  perfectly  willing  to  sit  here,  if  you  feel 
it  is  unfair  to  you  not  to  proceed.  I  decline  to  plead  guilty  to  an 
accusation  of  that  character. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Thank  you. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Go  ahead,  Dr.  Sparre. 

Dr.  Sparre.  Mr.  Raushenbush,  at  yesterrlay  afternoon's  session, 
submitted  among  other  papers  a  copy  of  a  communication  relative  to 
disarmament  conferences  to  the  effect  that  "  Disarmament  is  a  farce 
while  Germany  retains  organic  chemical  monopolies."  A  little  later 
Mr.  Raushenbush  suggested  that  "  the  whole  question  of  control  of 
the  chemical  industry  was  really  a  very  important  one  to  the  whole 
question  of  disarmament." 

Those  are  two  totally  different  statements.  One  deals  with  the 
German  monopoly  which  handicaps  other  countries  and  the  mon- 
opoly confined  to  the  organic  chemical  industry.  That  has  nothing 
to  do  with  the  general  chemical  industry.  It  is  a  totally  different 
thing  to  talk  about  the  German  monopoly  before  the  war  and  another 
thing  to  talk  about  the  domestic  American  chemical  industry. 

Mr.  Raushenbush  asked  whether  the  du  Pont  representatives  before 
the  Senate  committee  were  in  accord  with  such  a  proposition.  I  re- 
plied that  I  was  not  in  accord  with  it.  I  did  not  elaborate  on  the 
subject  at  the  time,  as  I  did  not  want  to  interrupt  Mr.  Raushenbush 
in  his  presentation  of  a  number  of  documents  for  the  record,  expect- 
ing that  an  opportunity  would  be  given  to  me  to  explain  my  position 


2470  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

after  Mr.  Raiishenbush  had  presented  his  case.  The  matter  is  of 
such  vital  importance  to  the  American  chemical  industry,  however, 
that  I  would  like  to  present  the  reasons  for  my  opinion  now. 

Ever  since  the  outbreak  of  the  world  war  I  have  been  convinced 
that  there  is  a  very  close  connection  between  preparedness  and  the 
chemical  industry.  There  is,  however,  an  important  distinction  be- 
tween chemicals  and  munitions.  The  chemical  industry  is  important 
in  war;  it  is  also  enormously  important  in  time  of  peace.  Munitions, 
on  the  other  hand,  serve  no  purpose  in  peace  time  except  as  a  matter 
of  military  preparedness. 

To  prove  the  correctness  of  the  assertion  that  Government  control 
of  the  chemical  industry  would  have  to  be  a  part  of  any  disarma- 
ment agreement  Mr.  Eaushenbush  referred  to  a  statement  by  Dr. 
Hale,  an  eminent  chemist  mentioned  in  one  of  the  documents,  to  the 
effect  that  an  indigo  factory  could  be  converted  within  an  hour's 
time  into  a  plant  capable  of  manufacturing  poisonous  gas  for  war 
purposes. 

Granting  that  Dr.  Hale's  statement  is  correct,  it  must  be  under- 
stood that  in  times  of  peace  such  a  factory  would  produce  only  indigo 
and  would  not  produce  any  war  gas  whatever.  Even  in  the  event 
of  war  the  demand  for  indigo  for  commercial  purposes  would  con- 
tinue, and  it  would,  therefore,  be  desirable  to  leave  the  indigo  plant 
unchanged  and  build  a  new  plant  designed  entirely  for  military  pur- 
poses. This  would  only  be  possible  if  the  country  were  prepared 
with  reserve  supplies  of  war  gas,  so  that  time  would  be  available  for 
the  construction  of  the  new  plant.  The  existing  indigo  factory  and 
its  personnel  would  then  offer  the  advantage  of  serving  as  a  model 
for  the  war-gas  plant  which  could  be  constructed  more  quickly  and 
more  efficiently  and  would  have  a  trained  personnel  immediately 
available  for  its  operation. 

Under  these  conditions  there  would  seem  to  be  no  reason  to  put  the 
indigo  plants  during  peace  times  under  the  type  of  Government  con- 
trol that  has  been  suggested  for  munitions. 

The  same  statement  would  apply  to  the  chemical  industry  as  a 
whole.  The  manufacture  of  chemicals  is  essentially  a  commercial 
operation  with  only  a  negligible  portion  of  its  output  used  for  mili- 
tary products  in  time  of  peace.  I  do  not  believe  that  anyone  will 
dispute  the  fact  that  the  progress  of  American  industrv  today  is  very 
largely  based  upon  chemical  research.  To  say  that  because  the 
chemical  industry  is  important  in  war  it  should  therefore  be  placed 
under  the  control  suggested  for  armaments  is  like  saying  that  the  pro- 
duction of  wheat  or  steel  or  any  other  basic  product  of  great  im- 
portance in  war  should  be  similarly  subject  to  armament  regulation. 

As  a  further  illustration,  permit  me  to  point  out  that  gimcotton  as 
used  m  naval  torpedoes  is  manufactured  to  the  extent  of  between  60 
and  70  percent  of  its  weight  from  cotton,  and  smokeless  powder  is 
manufactured  to  the  extent  of  between  50  and  60  percent  of  its  weight 
from  cotton,  which  is  one  of  the  important  reasons  why  cotton  was 
contraband  in  the  late  war.  Yet  the  percentage  of  the  American 
cotton  production  which  is  consumed  during  peace  times  in  the  manu- 
facture of  military  munitions  is  negligible,  though  during  times  of 
war  it  becomes  an  important  factor  If  the  chemical  industry  were 
to  be  placed  under  Government  control  in  connection  with  disarma- 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2471 

ment  regulations  there  is  just  as  much,  if  not  more,  reason  for  placing 
farms  producing  cotton  and  the  entire  cotton  textile  industry  under 
Government  control  during  peace  times. 

I  can,  therefore,  only  reiterate  my  refusal  yesterday  to  accept  Mr. 
Raushenbush's  suggestion  that  we  are  in  agreement  with  the  state- 
ment that  disarmament  would  be  a  farce  unless  the  chemical  industry 
is  placed  under  Government  control.  I  am  convinced  that  these  two 
questions  have  nothing  to  do  with  each  other.  On  the  other  hand,  if 
disarmament  regulations  are  put  into  effect  they  will,  of  course, 
include  military  munitions  and  that  would  include  any  existing  plants 
and  equipment  suitable  for  the  manufacture  of  war  gases  and  not  in 
use  for  other  purposes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Mr.  Chairman,  may  I  question  him  on  that  ? 

The  Chairman.  I  think  since  the  statement  has  been  read,  the 
member  of  the  committee  or  Mr.  Raushenbush,  if  you  would  like  to, 
may  question  the  witness  upon  the  statement,  and  now  is  the  time 
to  do  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Mr.  Chairman,  we  hope  to  get  into  this  thing  a 
little  more  in  detail  later  on  Monday.  On  the  face  of  it,  there  is 
nothing  in  Dr.  Sparre's  statement  that  was  not  made  clear  by  him 
yesterday,  as  far  as  I  understood  his  position.  Dr.  Sparre  says  on 
the  first  page  of  this  statement  that  since  the  beginning  of  the  war, 
the  outbreak,  he  had  been  convinced  that  there  was  a  very  close  con- 
nection between  preparedness  and  the  chemical  industry.  That  was 
one  of  the  points  that  we  were  making  yesterday. 

We  also  made  the  point  that  a  good  many  of  the  people  either 
directly  in  the  employ  of  the  company  or  operating  through  one  of 
the  institutes  to  which  the  company  was  contributing  the  American 
Dye  Institute,  I  believe,  were  making  a  case  for  protection,  which  is 
natural,  to  young  industries,  on  the  ground  that  the  chemical  indus- 
try was  very  important  in  the  whole  question.  First,  it  was  put  on 
the  question  of  disarmament  and  then,  later,  it  was  put  under  the 
heading  of  armament,  as  I  remember  it. 

The  point  that  the  chemical  industry  is  enormously  important  in 
time  of  peace  is  very  obvious,  and  would  be  accepted  without  any 
question  at  all. 

The  assertion  on  the  second  page  that  the  government  control  of 
the  chemical  industry  would  have  to  be  part  of  any  disarmament 
agreement,  was  simply  taken,  and  I  am  sure  Dr.  Sparre  will  admit 
that  the  question  on  that  was  without  any  conclusion — was  simply 
taken  from  the  records  of  the  company's  people  at  the  time.  They 
were  the  ones  who  made  the  argument  as  to  the  conversion  of  an 
indigo  plant  into  a  plant  capable  of  manufacturing  poison  gas  was 
within  an  hour's  time. 

Dr.  Sparre,  at  this  point,  draws  a  distinction  between  the  organic 
chemical  industry  and  the  nonorganic.  I  think  not  only  you,  but 
anyone  else,  will  agree  with  me  about  the  war-time  importance  of  the 
organic  chemical  industry.  I  know  not  enough  about  the  rest  of  the 
chemical  industry  to  speak  of  its  war-time  experience.  What  would 
you  consider  theBadische  Aniline  &  Soda  Fabrik?  Would  you  con- 
sider them  in  the  organic  group  ? 

Dr.  Sparre.  That  is  organic. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  comes  under  that  discussion. 

83876— 35— PT  11 6 


2472  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Dr.  Sparre.  That  comes  under  that,  Doctor,  because  it  involves 
really  a  specialized  knowledge  of  all  of  the  organic  chemical  indus- 
try, whereas,  take  sulphuric  acid,  and  nitric  acid,  or  something  like 
that,  they  are  inorganic  and  the  United  States  has  always  had  a 
large  industry  in  the  general  chemical  field,  and  when  the  war  broke 
out  there  was  no  difficulty  about  it.  There  was  only  one  inorganic 
chemical  that  we  did  not  have  in  sufficient  quantity,  and  that  was 
nitrogen.  At  first,  the  United  States  relied  upon  Chile  for  nitrate 
of  soda,  and  that  was  its  source  of  supply  at  that  time.  The  ques- 
tion of  nitrogen  is  no  longer  an  important  one. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  understand  that. 

Dr.  Sparre.  For  instance,  at  the  outbreak  of  the  war,  the  coke 
business  only  recovered  about  15  percent  of  the  byproduct  ammonia. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  You  did  admit  just  a  moment  ago,  and  I 
thought  we  were  in  general  agreement  on  that,  that  the  organic 
chemical  industry  was  of  importance  to  the  war. 

Dr.  Sparre.  Yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  You  are  now  saying  that  it  is  a  little  less  im- 
portant than  when  we  were  dependent  upon  Chilean  nitrate  for  our 
supply  ? 

Dr.  Sparre.  The  only  inorganic  chemical  that  was  important  when 
the  war  broke  out  was  Chilean  nitrate. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Will  you  enlighten  my  ignorance  on  that  one 
subject.  When  speaking  a  moment  ago  you  seemed  to  set  sulphuric 
acid  and  things  like  that  in  the  inorganic  group. 

Dr.  Sparre.  -  That  is  right. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Then  your  distinction  was,  admitting  the  or- 
ganic chemical  industry  meant  the  heavy  nitrates,  and  so  forth 

Dr.  Sparre.  No;  that  is  inorganic.  Let  me  give  you  an  example 
of  that. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Yes ;  I  wish  you  would,  Doctor. 

Dr.  Sparre.  When  the  war  broke  out,  we  continued  our  manufac- 
ture of  smokeless  powder,  but  we  had  to  manufacture  largely  in- 
creased amounts  of  smokeless  powder.  Take,  for  instance,  diphenyl- 
amine,  that  is  an  organic  chemical  pure  and  simple,  made  only  in  that 
industry.  When  the  war  broke  out  it  was  not  made  in  the  United 
States.  It  is  made  from  anilin.  We  did  not  have  plants  of  that 
part  of  the  organic  chemical  industry.  One  job  we  had  to  tackle 
in  1914  was  how  to  get  diphenylamine  for  our  smokeless  powder. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  If  you  will  allow  me  to  continue  with  the 
analysis  of  the  statement  made,  I  ask  you  on  these  two  questions, 
indigo  and  diphenylamine  are  on  the  organic  side? 

Dr.  Sparre,  Yes.  sir. 

Mr.  Raushenbush,  And  sulphuric  acid  is  inorganic? 

Dr.  Sparre.  That  is  right. 

Mr.  Raushenbush,  You  made  the  distinction,  then,  in  your  state- 
ment that  while  you  admitted  rather  freely  that  the  organic  chem- 
ical industry  was  of  enormous  importance  in  armament  in  time  of 
war,  you  were  a  little  more  doubtful,  Avere  you  not,  about  the  in- 
organic side,  the  rest  of  the  chemical  industry? 

Dr,  Sparre.  You  did  not  get  me  right  there. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  All  right. 

Dr.  Sparre.  I  said  at  the  outbreak  of  the  war  we  could  handle  our 
inorganic  situation,  because  we  had  increased  our  production  enor- 


MUNITIONS   UsTDUSTRY  2473 

mously,  the  resources  of  the  country,  and  the  knowledge  within  the 
country  permitted  that. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Yes. 

Dr.  Sparre.  On  the  other  hand,  the  organic  industry  was  so  limited 
in  its  use,  and  so  limited  in  its  manufacture  that  the  country  was 
handicapped  in  the  organic  field.  On  the  other  hand,  Germany  had 
pretty  nearly  a  monopoly  in  that  field.  That  is  the  way  we  drew  a 
distinction  between  the  organic  industry  at  the  outbreak  of  the  war, 
in  which  Germany  had  almost  a  monopoly. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Yes. 

Dr.  Sparre.  The  moment  we  establish  an  organic  industry  here, 
we  are  in  a  far  better  position  than  in  1914. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  You  go  with  me  far  more  completely  than  I 
thought  you  did.  You  say,  then,  in  war  time  that  both  organic  and 
inorganic  chemistry  are  important  to  the  successful  handling  of  a 
war? 

Dr.  Sparre.  Yes;  but  isn't  the  same  thing  true  of  steel,  cotton,  or 
everything  else  ? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Add  to  that  the  statement  about  this  is  going 
to  be  a  chemical  age,  and  I  believe  those  statements  are  of  enormous 
importance  to  the  progress  of  the  chemical  industry,  perhaps  a  little 
bit  above  steel.     But  that  is  a  matter  we  can  go  into  later. 

Then,  on  the  second  page  you  take  up  the  proposition  that  it  must 
be  understood  that  in  times  of  peace  such  a  factory  would  produce 
only  indigo  and  would  not  produce  any  war  gas  whatever.  You 
do  not  know  what  the  Badische  factory  is  doing. 

Dr.  Sparre.  When  the  war  broke  out  between  the  European  coun- 
tries we  found  it  desirable  to  build  new  plants  rather  than  rebuild 
old  factories ;  it  was  more  economical. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  was  Dr.  Hale  who  offered  that  proposition 
that  an  indigo  plant  could  be  converted  inside  of  an  hour  into  a 
mustard-gas  plant.     You  do  not  say  that  cannot  be  done  ? 

Dr.  Sparre.  No. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  If  a  country  were  wise  enough  to  build  up  a 
supply  of  mustard  gas  it  would  not  use  that  same  plant  for  the 
making  of  gas  in  time  of  war  ? 

Dr.  Sparre.  It  would  be  more  economical  to  build  a  plant,  rather 
than  to  convert  the  old  one. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  On  the  supposition  that  the  country  had  piled 
up  a  supply  ahead  of  time,  when  we  come  to  time  of  war  they  are 
supposed  to  have  jDiled  up  a  supply  ahead  of  time.  In  that  event 
we  have  the  proposition  of  Dr.  Hale's  still  stand  as  a  possibility  ? 

Dr.  Sparre.  I  think  Dr.  Hale's  suggestion  is  intended  to  illustrate 
the  organic  chemical  industry.  I  do  not  believe  anybody  would  want 
to  convert  an  indigo  factory  into  a  gas  factory.  It  is  more  economi- 
cal to  build  a  new  one  than  to  convert  an  old  one.  That  has  been 
the  experience,  you  see,  Dr.  Raushenbush. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  is  mister. 

Dr.  Sparre.  Our  experience  is  that  we  save  both  time  and  money 
by  going  ahead  and  doing  the  right  thing  right  away,  rather  than 
patching  up  an  old  one.     That  is  our  war  experience. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Our  country  is  a  little  longer  distant  away 
from  the  others,  and  these  continental  countries  might  operate 
differently. 


2474  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

I  think  on  that  proposition  of  the  indigo  factory  it  has  been  ana- 
lyzed into  what  it  boils  down  into.  Your  statement  that  the  manu- 
facture of  chemicals  in  peace  time  is  a  commercial  operation  is  with- 
out doubt  true.  It  is  like  saying  anything  in  peace  time  is  a 
peace-time  matter  to  a  large  extent,  and  we  had  considerable  argu- 
ment here  the  other  day  about  the  question  of  whether  or  not  certain 
powders  could  be  used  for  sporting  powders  and  other  purposes.  In 
the  rest  of  the  statement  it  simply  goes  on  to  make  the  point  that  all 
of  these  things  like  cotton  and  steel  can  be  and  are  decidedly  war 
materials  under  certain  circumstances.  I  do  not  think  we  would 
question  that  at  all.  What  you  were  doing  was  stating  in  the  words 
of  your  own  people  that  disarmament  involved  the  chemical  indus- 
try and  armament  involved  it,  also. 

Now,  if  you  are  going  to  get  the  chemical  industry  out  of  the  whole 
question  of  arms,  you  are  doing  something  more  than  these  so-called 
"  disarmament  conferences "  have  done.  They  perhaps  have  not 
been  able  to  function  as  freely  as  they  should. 

Dr.  Spaere.  I  think  the  chemical  industry  should  be  in  the  same 
class  as  the  steel  industry  or  any  other  industry.  Why  single  out 
the  chemical  industry,  because,  after  all,  the  steel  industry  in  times 
of  war  is  far  more  important  than  the  chemical  industry. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  If  it  is  believed  that  the  chemical  industry  and 
the  poison-gas  industry  is  going  to  be  a  big  industry  in  the  next 
war,  then  that  is  testimony  we  ought  to  hear  from  the  War  Depart- 
ment officials,  whether  or  not  they  consider  the  chemical  and  poi- 
son-gas industries  and  others  along  this  line  more  important  than 
steel  or  cotton. 

The  Chairman.  All  of  which  the  committee  is  planning  for  during 
the  course  of  its  studies. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  President  Wilson  repeated  his  statements 
three  times  to  Congress  on  that.     [Reading:] 

President  Wilson  said  in  a  message  to  Congress  May  20,  1919,  and  repeated 
in  two  other  messages  December  2,  1919,  and  December  7,  1920 : 

"  Nevertheless,  there  are  parts  of  our  tariff  system  which  need  prompt  at- 
tention. The  experiences  of  the  war  have  made  it  plain  that  in  some  cases 
too  great  reliance  on  foreign  supply  is  dangerous,  and  that  in  determining 
certain  parts  of  our  tariff  policy  domestic  considerations  must  be  borne  in 
mind  which  are  political  as  well  as  economic.  Among  the  industries  to  which 
special  consideration  should  be  given  is  that  of  the  manufacture  of  dyestuffs 
and  related  chemicals.  Our  complete  dependence  upon  German  supplies  before 
the  war  made  the  interruption  of  trade  a  cause  of  exceptional  economic 
disturbance.  The  close  relation  between  the  manufacture  of  dyestuffs,  on 
the  one  hand,  and  of  explosives  and  poisonous  gases,  on  the  other,  moreover, 
has  given  the  industry  an  exceptional  signiticance  and  value.  Although  the 
United  States  will  gladly  and  unhesitatingly  join  in  the  program  of  interna- 
tional disarmament,  it  will,  nevertheless,  be  a  policy  of  obvious  prudence  to 
make  certain  of  the  successful  maintenance  of  many  strong  and  well-equipped 
chemical  plants.  The  German  chemical  industry,  with  which  we  will  be 
brought  into  competition  was  and  may  well  be  again,  a  thoroughly  knit  mono- 
poly capable  of  exercising  a  competition  of  a  peculiarly  insidious  and  dangerous 
kind." 

Now,  Mr.  Wilson  had  the  king's  English  at  his  command,  if  any- 
body had  it,  and  I  think  that  that  is  expressed  very  clearly.  It  in 
some  way  suggests  your  idea  that  this  is  a  peculiarly  important  in- 
dustry. That  w^as  the  basis  of  this  quotation  that  has  been  referred 
to  so  much  about  disarmament  "  is  a  farce." 


I 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTEY  2475 

Mr.  Raushenbusii.  Without  going  into  it  further,  you  were  not 
present  yesterday  afternoon  when  the  interest  of  the  company  in  the 
proposals  of  the  British  delegation  to  the  1922  Washington  Con- 
ference were  brought  out,  the  interest  not  only  of  the  British  but 
also  of  the  French  and  Italians,  and  what  their  proposals  would  be 
about  the  use  of  gas  in  warfare.  They  seemed  to  corroborate  some 
tilings  that  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont  is  expressing  here. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Mr.  Wilson,  not  Irenee  du  Pont. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  really  was  drawing  a  distinction.  Mr.  Irenee 
du  Pont  was  expressing  and  agreeing  in  the  phrase  after  he  read  this 
quotation,  that  this  industry  is  vitally  interested  in  any  regulations 
imposed  upon  the  chemical  industry,  because  the  chemical  industry 
is,  as  this  very  conference  showed,  by  taking  it  up  as  part  of  the  dis- 
armament program  of  the  world.  Those  exhibits  are  of  course  avail- 
able for  your  study  later. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  think  we  might  as  well  recess  now. 

Mr.  Garvan.  Mr,  Chairman,  may  I  ask  a  question  ? 

The  Chairman.  In  view  of  the  fact  that  you  are  going  to  appear 
as  a  witness  could  that  not  be  deferred  until  later  ? 

Mr.  Garvan.  I  am  not  going  to  make  a  statement.  I  just  wanted 
to  ask  permission  to  appear  as  a  witness. 

The  Chairman.  You  are  going  to  have  that  permission ;  you  may 
be  sure  of  that. 

Mr.  Casey.  Mr.  Chairman,  may  I  make  one  further  statement? 

The  Chairman.  Mr.  Casey. 

Mr.  Casey.  In  connection  with  the  report  which  was  just  read,  I 
think  there  is  one  thing  that  does  stand  out  as  a  result  of  that  infor- 
mation, and  that  is  this :  That  if  this  committee  is  trying  to  find  out 
a  means  of  achieving  disarmament,  it  certainly  clearly  indicates  that 
if  there  are  government  plants  all  over  the  world  where  they  have 
the  same  situation,  it  probably  may  result  that  then  any  efforts  in- 
stead of  reducing  government  manufacture,  and  achieving  your 
objective,  will  have  just  the  opposite  effect. 

The  Chairman.  That  is  a  matter  of  argument. 

The  committee  will  stand  in  recess  until  10  o'clock  Monday 
morning. 

(Thereupon  the  hearing  recessed  until  10  a.  m.  Monday,  Decem- 
ber 10,  1934.) 


INVESTIGATION  OF  MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY 


MONDAY,   DECEMBER   10,    1934 

United  States  Senate, 

Special  Committee  to 
Investigate  the  Munitions  Industry, 

Washington^  D.  G. 

The  hearing  was  resumed  at  10  a.  m.  in  the  Finance  Committee 
room,  Senate  Office  Building,  pursuant  to  the  taking  of  recess,  Sena- 
tor Gerald  P.  Nye  presiding. 

Present:  Senators  Nye  (chairman),  Clark,  Pope,  and  Barbour. 

Present  also:  Stephen  Kaushenbush,  secretary  to  the  committee, 
and  Robert  Wohlforth,  assistant  to  the  secretary. 

The  Chairman.  The  committee  will  be  in  order. 

The  committee  would  like  to  hear  this  morning  Mr.  Beebe,  Mr. 
Monaghan,  and  Mr.  Felix  du  Pont. 

FURTHER  TESTIMONY  OF  F.  J.  MONAGHAN,  H.  F.  BEEBE,  A.  FELIX 
DU  PONT,  LAMMOT  DU  PONT,  AND  K.  K.  V.  CASEY 

methods   of   doing   business — BALKAN    STATES 

(The  witnesses  were  previously  sworn  by  the  chairman.) 

The  Chairman.  Mr.  du  Pont,  the  record  at  the  moment  rather 
clearly  establishes  your  belief  that  there  is  necessity  for  foreign  sales 
of  powder  and  munitions  generally  in  order  to  keep  our  own  powder 
plants  and  munitions  factories  ready  for  an  emergency  should  it 
arise.    I  take  it  that  that  is  your  opinion,  is  it  not? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Yes. 

The  Chairman.  For  the  purpose  of  making  clear  the  record  again, 
just  what  is  your  connection  with  the  du  Pont  factory  ? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  am  general  manager  of  the  smokeless- 
powder  department  and  one  of  the  vice  presidents  of  the  company. 

The  Chairman.  We  want  this  morning  to  raise  a  few  questions 
relative  to  the  social  cost  of  these  foreign  sales  and  foreign  negotia- 
tions. We  would  like  to  know,  of  course,  what  price  the  nations  of 
the  world  pay  to  keep  our  American  plants  in  the  state  of  readiness 
or  unreadiness  to  prepare  for  the  next  war;  and  when  we  concern 
ourselves  with  bribery  of  foreign  officials  we  are  not  concerning  our- 
selves so  much  with  the  bribery  itself  as  we  are  with  the  thought  of 
what  it  leads  to. 

Surely,  where  a  company  bribes — at  home  or  abroad,  it  matters 
not — there  must  be  builded  in  the  mind  of  that  business  that  is  en- 
gaged in  that  bribery  a  feeling,  a  spirit  of  contempt,  for  any  country 
that  must  be  approached  in  that  manner  in  order  to  get  the  busi- 

2477 


2478  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

ness  and,  where,  as  is  true  or  seems  to  be  true,  all  munition  companies 
the  world  over  are  getting  their  business  in  a  country  through  meth- 
ods involving  bribery,  there  must  be  contempt  toward  that  country 
or  of  that  country  on  the  part  of  all  of  the  companies  doing  business 
there. 

Don't  you  think  that  these  methods  that  are  found,  so-called,  "  nec- 
essary "  rob  administrations  of  governments  of  any  feeling  of  moral 
independence  ?  Don't  you  feel  that  that  is  the  case  ? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont,  I  think  you  raise  a  very  complicated  ques- 
tion there.  Senator  Nye,  The  customs  of  different  countries  are 
so  entirely  different  that  it  is  quite  difficult  to  dispose  of  the  question 
in  any  very  few  words. 

For  instance,  while  I  have  not  traveled  in  the  Orient,  except  in 
a  very  limited  way,  all  that  I  have  heard  about  it  is  that  the  methods 
used  in  the  way  of  bribery  are  quite  different  from  what  they  are  in 
this  country,  and  certain  things  that  are  frowned  upon  in  this  coun- 
try and  perhaps  done  in  a  different  way  are  the  natural  course  of 
trade  and  trade  competition  in  those  other  countries. 

I  believe  that  bribery  of  a  certain  kind  is  used  in  most  of  the 
countries  of  the  Orient  in  all  walks  of  commercial  life.  It  is  no 
different  in  the  munitions  business  than  it  is  in  any  other  commercial 
business.  It  is  accepted;  not  talked  about  very  much;  but  people 
in  competition  in  those  countries  simply  could  not  possibly  carry 
on  their  trade  if  the  customs  of  the  country  were  not  adhered  to. 

The  Chairman.  But  it  has  a  tendency  at  one  and  the  same  time  to 
break  down  moral  fiber,  doesn't  it?  Representatives  of  a  country 
that  are  in  any  way  involved  in  programs  of  bribery,  the  receiving 
of  bribes,  are  not  apt  to  make  the  best  kind  of  representatives  at  a 
disarmament  conference,  for  example,  are  they? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  They  are  the  kind  of  people  who  are  of 
their  own  set.  The  either  doing  or  not  doing  what  they  accept  as 
the  way  of  doing  in  their  country  would  have  no  weight  with  them 
whatsoever. 

The  Chairman.  If  I  had  been  in  times  past  the  recipient  of  any 
bribe  for  any  favor  I  had  performed,  for  example,  for  your  industry, 
or  even  though  I  had  received  campaign  contributions,  do  you  think 
it  would  be  fair  for  me  to  try  to  give  representation  that  was  square 
serving  on  a  committee  such  as  this,  investigating  the  industry? 

Mr.  A,  Felix  du  Pont.  Now  j^ou  are  speaking  of  the  United 
States. 

The  Chairman.  I  am  speaking  of  that  only. 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Yes. 

The  Chairman.  That  we  may  better  put  ourselves  in  the  shoes  of 
those  we  are  dealing  with  in  other  lands. 

Senator  Clark.  In  any  country,  Mr.  du  Pont,  if  a  public  official 
would  accept  a  bribe  for  the  letting  of  a  public  contract,  it  is  very 
plain  he  would  let  the  public  contract  to  the  highest  bidder,  irre- 
spective of  the  public  interest  or  the  interest  of  his  country  at  all; 
isn't  that  so? 

The  Chairman.  We  will  not  press  for  an  answer  there.  It  was  not 
propounded  for  an  answer,  to  be  franli  with  you.  But  I  am  coming 
back  to  the  question  we  originally  opened  with :  What  is  the  price  of 
keeping  American  plants,  munitions  plants,  ready  for  functioning 


MUWITIOISrS   INDUSTRY  2479 

in  time  of  emergency,  by  proceeding  abroad,  as  we  are  proceeding, 
to  sell  our  wares  in  other  lands? 

I  will  admit,  in  starting,  that  there  is  another  question  in  the  back 
of  my  mind.  The  question  is  this :  Why  have  disarmament  confer- 
ences been  the  repeated  failures  that  they  have  been?  Have  they 
failed  because  the  friends  or  beneficiaries  of  the  private  munitions 
people  were  in  the  delegations  ?  Until  every  country  in  the  world,  it 
seems  to  me,  has  brought  out  the  facts,  as  we  are  trying  to  bring  them 
out  here,  we  probably  never  will  know  the  exact  and  proper  answer  to 
that  question. 

You  have  already  said  that  you  believed  in  the  desirability  of  for- 
eign trade  in  order  to  keep  our  plants  ready  for  that  emergency 
which  none  of  us  hope  is  going  to  arise,  but  which  may  arise.  You 
have  been  engaged  in  an  intensive  campaign,  have  j^ou  not,  Mr. 
du  Pont,  selling  powder  all  over  the  world  ? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Yes,  but  the  records  show,  I  think,  that  it 
has  been  rather  an  unsuccessful  campaign.  All  of  our  efforts  or  the 
greater  part  of  our  efforts,  as  the  testimony  has  brought  out  here, 
the  most  of  the  efforts  that  we  were  making  came  to  naught. 

The  Chairman.  Are  you  still  striving  for  that  trade  ? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Yes. 

The  Chairman.  As  diligently  as  ever  you  did? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  We  have  found  in  so  many  places  that  we 
were  not  successful  that  we  have  practically  given  up  attempting  to 
sell  through  certain  channels  which  have  been  pretty  well  exhausted, 
so  that  I  suppose  we  might  say  that  the  campaign  is  not  as  intensive 
as  it  was. 

The  Chairman.  To  what  do  you  attribute  your  failure  to  win  that 
larger  field  that  you  might  at  one  time  hope  for  ? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  European  competition. 

The  Chairman.  Competition  in  the  ordinary  sense  or  the  particu- 
lar kind  of  competition  that  you  have  to  meet  there  ? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  In  the  ordinary  sense. 

The  Chairman.  Do  you  find  practices  engaged  in  in  order  to  ac- 
complish sales  abroad  rather  distasteful? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  might  say  yes  to  that.  The  record  shows 
that  we  have  attempted  to  make  sales  in  certain  countries  and  under 
certain  conditions  where  we  finally  discovered  that  the  methods  re- 
quired were  distasteful  and  we  abandoned  our  efforts. 

The  Chairman.  Their  practices  in  many  instances  are  really 
reprehensible,  judged  by  ordinary  business  standards,  are  they  not? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont,  Judged  by  our  standards,  yes,  but  in  the 
ordinary  course  of  competition  of  trade  in  certain  countries,  I  believe 
they  are  not  different  from  effort  in  the  introduction  or  attempt  to 
sell  any  other  kind  of  commercial  product. 

The  Chairman.  You  are  doing  some  business  in  the  Balkans? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  At  present,  I  think  not. 

The  Chairman.  None? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  think  not. 

The  Chairman.  Are  you  armed  with  agents  in  the  Balkans  who 
are  striving  to  sell? 

Mr.  A,  Felix  du  Pont.  Yes,  we  have  some. 

The  Chairman.  As  many  or  less  than  you  have  had  at  other 
times  ? 


2480  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  There  are  about  as  many.  You  see,  these 
agents  do  not  receive  any  salary.  They  simply  report  to  us  when 
they  think  they  can  make  a  sale. 

The  Chairman.  When  did  you  first  institute  sales  efforts  in  the 
Balkans  ? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  cannot  remember  exactly  the  year,  but 
it  was  around  1923,  I  believe,  or  1922. 

The  Chairman.  After  the  World  War? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Yes. 

The  Chairman.  We  have  before  us  a  letter  written  to  Mr.  Casey 
by  your  European  representative,  William  N.  Taylor,  which  is 
offered  as  "  Exhibit  No.  948." 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  948%  "  and  is 
Included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2595.) 

The  Chairman.  This  letter,  Mr.  du  Pont,  is  dated  October  10, 1922, 
and  its  general  nature  seems  to  indicate  that  this  was  about  the  first 
approach  that  was  made  to  the  Balkan  market  for  your  powder.  I 
want  to  read  in  part  that  letter. 

Have  you  been  previously  aware  of  this  letter? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Yes. 

The  Chairman.  You  are  conversant  with  it? 

Mr.  A,  Felix  du  Pont.  Yes. 

The  Chairman.  Was  it  called  to  your  attention 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  have  not  read  it  for  a  good  while, 
Senator. 

The  Chairman.  Was  it  called  to  your  attention  at  the  time  that  it 
was  sent? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  At  the  time  it  was  sent,  I  think  so.  I  think 
I  read  it  at  the  time  it  was  received  by  my  office. 

The  Chairman.  Mr.  Taylor  points  out  in  this  letter  that  there  are, 
after  his  study,  certain  essentials  in  the  traffic  carried  on  in  the 
Balkan  countries  which  are  going  to  have  to  be  met  if  the  du  Ponts 
are  going  to  attract  any  of  that  business. 

In  the  Balkans  I  ran  across  a  situation  so  entirely  different  from  anything 
we  liave  in  America  that  I  am  writing  this  in  addition  to  my  letter  no.  36 
to  try  to  give  you  a  picture  of  tlie  situation  there. 

We  want  to  sell  powder  in  the  Balkans  and  powder  can  he  sold  to  the 
Balkans,  but  the  method  of  straight  selling  for  what  they  need  and  getting 
paid  for  it  will  not  work.  If  you  draw  a  line  from  Trieste  to  Warsaw  and 
go  east  of  that  line,  you  find  the  business  and  financial  conditions  run  on  a 
set  of  rules  entirely  their  own,  and  if  we  can't  conform  to  the  situation,  we 
won't  be  able  to  get  any  business.  There,  the  ordinary  business  ethics  are 
entirely  different  from  ours  and  people  have  no  knowledge  of  ours,  they  don't 
know  what  our  business  ethics  mean.  Their  financial  methods  and  the  methods 
of  raising  money  from  their  Governments  are  also  entirely  different  from  ours. 

In  the  first  place,  the  country  is  constituted  of  a  great  mass  of  peasants 
who  work  in  the  field  and  cannot  read  nor  write.  Until  comparatively  recently 
the  Governments  were  absolute  monarchies  run  by  a  group  of  people  around 
the  monarch  who,  by  every  means  which  they  could  imagine,  extracted  money 
from  the  peasants  without  any  idea  of  what  we  might  call  a  national  instinct 
or  any  idea  of  being  fair  or  doing  good  to  the  peasant — on  the  contrary ! 
Generally  in  these  countries  are  several  groups  of  such  people  and  all  political 
agitation  is  simply  a  fight  between  these  different  groups  to  get  their  hands 
on  the  spoils.  The  great  western  European  powers  have  attempted  to  force 
upon  these  people  the  western  ideas  of  government  and  eithics  and  the  result 
has  been  merely  a  complication  of  their  primitive  methods.  They  begin  by 
collecting  all  the  taxes  they  can,  then  they  purchase  things  for  the  Govern- 
ment and  all  of  them  collect  all  the  graft  they  can  in  every  way  out  of  these 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2481 

purchases.  They  don't  much  care  what  they  pay  so  long  as  they  get  the 
graft,  which  is  their  main  object.  Internal  politics  consist  of  disputing  over 
the  graft — external  politics  consist  in  developing  complications  which  permit 
them  to  spend  or  collect  more  Government  money.  The  idea  of  doing  anything 
for  the  good  of  the  country  has  never  been  translated  into  their  language. 

Mr.  du  Pont,  would  not  that  rather  indicate  that  there  was 
a  byproduct  to  what  Mr.  Taylor  referred  to  as  the  internal  graft, 
and  that  that  byproduct  was  war,  which  afforded  a  larger  oppor- 
tunitj'^for  graft?      Was  that  his  meaning,  do  you  think? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  don't  know.  And  I  will  say  this :  That 
this  letter  was  written  12  years  ago.  Colonel  Taylor  was  setting  out 
to  do  something  entirely  new. 

The  Chairman.  This  was  his  first  approach  to  that  market? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  This  was  his  first  approach  in  that  general 
line  of  work.  He  had  only  been  on  it  a  short  time,  he  had  been  on 
ordinary  commercial  business  before  this. 

Senator  Clark.  You  mean  that  that  is  the  first  time  Taylor  ever 
recognized  the  necessity  of  bribing  public  officials  to  get  contracts? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  don't  know.  I  could  not  say  that ;  but 
I  do  think  that  with  the  experience  that  Colonel  Taylor  has  had,  if 
he  read  that  letter  over  now  he  would  not  subscribe  to  his  own 
remarks  entirely. 

Senator  Clark.  You  mean,  he  would  not  be  quite  so  thin-skinned 
as  he  was  then? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  No  ;  I  do  not  mean  that  at  all.  I  think 
he  would  be  a  little  more  charitable  in  his  views  of  other  people,  and 
that  would  temper  his  judgment  in  regard  to  it. 

The  Chairman.  You  mean  that  his  experience  'has  equipped  him 
to  know  that  this  is  quite  the  ordinary  thing  in  the  Balkans? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  think  that 

The  Chairman.  That  he  is  rather  resigned  to  it? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  No.  I  think  he  would  feel  now  that  his 
very  strong  accusations  that  he  makes  in  this  paper  or  in  this  letter 
are  not  warranted. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Has  he  ever  told  you  so  ? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  No  ;  but  the  tone  of  his  letters  at  various 
times  and  his  conversations  indicate  a  change  in  thought  on  that. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  If  there  are  any  letters  we  missed,  Mr.  du 
Pont,  in  which  he  reverses  himself  and  said  that  that  situation  is 
changed,  we  would  be  glad  to  have  them  submitted. 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  do  not  think  you  could  find  it  in  any 
direct  statement,  Mr.  Raushenbush.  You  would  simply  find  that 
he  does  not  believe  all  he  hears  when  he  goes  into  a  country.  He 
apparently  got  with  people  who  told  him  how  perfectly  frightful 
their  practices  are  and  he  found  out  that  after  all  they  were  a  good 
deal  like  most  people ;  they  were  not  quite  so  dishonest  as  he  indicates 
in  this  letter. 

The  Chairman.  Let  us  read  from  the  letter  [reading]  : 

For  instance,  the  idea  of  issuing  an  internal  Government  loan,  selling  it  to 
the  people,  has  never  occurred  to  them  and  could  not  be  done.  When  they 
want  an  internal  loan  they  get  together  the  rich  merchants  and  Jews  and 
say  "You  will  lend  the  Government  some  money  or  we  put  you  in  jail;  if 
you  do  lend  the  Government  money,  we  will  let  you  in  on  the  profits  for  15 
or  20  percent."  A  merchant  is  successful  when  he  knows  how  to  distribute 
the  graft  and  get  away  with  part  of  the  profits. 


2482  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

If  you  go  clown  to  that  country  with  something  to  sell  and  expect  to  find 
fair  competition  on  prices  and  quality,  you  will  be  very  much  deceived — 
there  is  no  such  thing.  People  who  traded  the  most  with  those  countries 
and  are  most  successful  are  the  English  and  Germans.  How  do  they  do  It? 
Let  us  take  Vickers  for  example.  It  is  impossible  for  Vickers,  with  their 
British  stockholders  and  their  English  business  ethics,  to  play  this  game 
directly.  So  they  use  the  intermediary  of  a  man  like  Sir  Basil  ZaharofC 
who  is  the  most  important  of  his  class,  who  acts  about  as  follows :  He  gets 
a  price  from  Vickers  with  a  discount  of  40  or  50  percent.  He  goes  to  the 
countrj^  and  he  says :  "  You  need  so  much  material,  I'll  provide  you  with  this 
whole  lot  and  give  you  so  much  graft  and  I'll  lend  you  the  money  t8  buy  it 
with."  Then  he  will  go  to  a  local  banker  or  merchant  and  he'll  say  this: 
"  "We  will  make  a  loan  through  Mr.  So-and-so  to  the  Government,  and  this 
loan  will  bring  you  a  very  large  interest  and  we  will  give  so  much  commission 
to  the  Minister  of  Finance "  and  he'll  promise  to  collect  enough  taxes  to 
pay  this  loan  and  he  does  not  get  the  commission  until  the  loan  is  paid  back. 
He  gets  his  money  from  these  various  people.  The  Government  pays  Vickers 
the  full  amount  less  the  discount  which  goes  to  some  intermediary.  In  time 
the  Government  collects  taxes,  pays  back  the  people  who  made  the  loan,  and 
all  the  people  in  the  game  pluck  up  the  profits.  He  has  now  made  an  arrange- 
ment of  this  type  for  refilling  the  Greek  Army.  If  we  want  to  sell  down 
there,  we  will  have  to  do  somewhat  the  same  thing.  We  will  have  to  go  to 
the  Government  and  say  "  We  can  furnish  you  with  a  variety  of  materials, 
large  orders,  which  will  make  a  big  enough  smn  to  be  interesting.  We  will 
cover  fixed  ammunition,  powder,  rifles,  and  cannons,  shoes,  uniforms,  etc.,  and 
we  will  help  to  arrange  a  loan  to  permit  you  to  pay  for  this."  We  can  then 
go  to  a  local  bank  and  say  "  Now  you  must  arrange  a  loan  to  the  Govern- 
ment to  pay  for  this  material  on  which  you  will  get  a  large  i)ercentage." 
This  bank  will  get  up  a  private  loan  promising  large  interests  to  the  sub- 
scribers, subject  to  a  purchase  of  material  to  our  combination. 

Now,  Mr.  du  Pont,  this  story  here,  to  the  effect  that  the  people 
who  traded  the  most  with  those  countries  and  are  most  successful 
are  the  English  and  Germans,  is  this  generally  known  to  the  trade, 
the  munitions  trade? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Is  what  generally  known  ? 

The  Chairman.  That  the  Germans  and  the  British  were  the  most 
successful  in  that  field. 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  suppose  it  was. 

The  Chairman.  Do  you  know  whether  the  British  Government 
had  knowledge  of  Vickers'  activities  in  that  field? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  No  ;  I  do  not  know. 

The  Chairman.  I  read  on  from  Mr.  Taylor's  letter  [reading]  : 

In  order  to  work  this  we  must  work  through  an  American  bank  who  will 
act  as  an  intermediary  between  us  and  a  local  bank  and  must  be  able  to  do 
its  share  in  raising  the  loan  among  the  rich  Nationals  of  the  country  to 
which  we  sell,  who  are  residents  in  America.  If  we  could  find  a  bank  who 
knew  how  to  do  this,  we  should  get  up  an  expedition  to  go  to  those  countries, 
consisting  of  representatives  of  the  bank,  technical  men  from  the  Bethlehem 
Steel,  a  small-arms  company,  an  ammunition  company,  and  sit  on  the  job 
until  we  could  negotiate. 

How  much  sitting  on  the  job  has  there  been,  Mr.  du  Pont,  to  make 
such  an  arrangement? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  There  has  not  been  any  following  out  of 
that  method  which  he  thought  at  that  time  was  the  necessary  way 
to  go  about  the  business. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  And,  Mr.  Chairman,  Mr.  Felix  du  Pont  is 
of  course  speaking  for  the  smokeless-powder  department.  I  would 
like  to  speak  for  the  company  as  a  whole,  the  smokeless-powder  de- 
partment, the  explosives  department,  and  all  the  others. 

The  Chairman.  Splendid. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2483 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  We  have  not  done  business  with  the  State 
in  question  on  any  such  basis  as  described  as  necessary  by  Colonel 
Taylor. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  can  add  to  that,  Senator  Nye,  if  you  will  pardon  me, 
but  I  promptly  wrote  back  to  Colonel  Taylor  that  we  could  not  do 
business  that  way,  but  would  do  business  the  way  we  always  had 
done,  on  a  cash  basis.  Further  than  that,  I  might  add  when  the 
letter  was  presented  by  Mr.  Felix  du  Pont  to  the  executive  commit- 
tee, a  resolution  was  promptly  put  into  effect  prohibiting  such 
practice. 

The  Chairman.  Since  that  time,  1922,  I  expect  there  has  been 
some  change  in  that  field  by  reason  of  the  building  of  powder  plants. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont,  I  do  not  know  as  to  that.  Senator. 

The  Chairman.  Does  not  I.  C.  I.  have  its  powder  plants  there? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know  that. 

The  Chairman.  And  Nobel? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know  that. 

The  Chairman.  Mr.  Felix  du  Pont,  do  you  have  any  knowledge 
of  what  companies  are  operating  plants  in  the  Balkans  at  the 
present  time  ? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  No  ;  I  do  not  know. 

The  Chairman.  Mr.  Casey? 

Mr.  Casey.  The  only  thing  I  know  is  that  it  was  brought  out  the 
other  day  that  there  was  a  connection  with  a  Czechoslovakian  pow- 
der factory,  but  that  is  not  strictly  in  the  Balkans.  That  is  a  little  to 
the  west  of  the  Balkans.     That  is  the  only  place  I  know  of. 

The  Chairman.  That  they  had  bought  an  interest  in  those  plants  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  was  a  commercial  explosives  factory,  which  also 
had  military. 

The  Chairman.  You  have  no  knowledge,  beyond  what  was  devel- 
oped here  the  other  day,  on  that  score  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  None  at  all. 

The  Chairman.  It  was  that  knowledge  which  prompted  me  to  ask 
the  question. 

Mr.  Casey.  We  have  made  practically  no  effort  in  the  Balkans, 
because,  whether  this  situation  is  true  or  not  as  described  by  Colonel 
Taylor,  it  is  very  evident  that  we  did  not  seem  to  get  to  first  base 
trying  to  do  any  business  there.  Whether  that  was  the  reason  or 
not,  I  do  not  know,  but  the  fact  remains  we  have  not  sold  them 
anything. 

The  Chairman.  I  read  on  in  Mr.  Taylor's  letter,  leaving  out  two 
paragraphs  from  where  I  left  off  [reading]  : 

Selling  a  combined  lot  of  ordnance  and  taking  in  hand  the  creation  of  a  loan 
would  have  the  best  chance  of  success ;  sales  to  Vickers  or  Schneider  have 
the  second  best  chance  of  succeeding,  and  an  attempt  to  sell  powder  directly 
to  these  Governments  the  least  chance  of  succeeding. 

Was  any  one  of  these  proposals  considered  by  the  officers  at  the 
time  that  this  suggestion  was  received  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  No.  I  might  add  to  that,  in  the  case  of  Schneider 
it  would  have  been  almost  impossible  to  have  sold  them  because  they 
got  their  powder  from  the  French  powder  monopoly,  a  Government 
proposition. 


2484  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

The  Chairman.  I  read  on.     [Reading:] 

I  know  this  sounds  like  a  story  from  the  Arabian  Nights  and  will  probably 
be  digested  with  diflaculty  at  Wilmington,  but  it  is  as  clear  an  exposure  of  the 
situation  in  the  Balkans  as  I  am  able  to  make.  Please  think  this  over  and 
tell  me  which  line  you  wish  me  to  pursue.  If  you  don't  feel  like  going  into 
a  loan  of  this  kind,  and  don't  know  any  bankers  who  would  undertake  it,  it 
is  possible  that  our  best  mode  of  operation  would  be  this :  That  our  agents  in 
these  countries  do  the  best  they  can  toward  little  sales  and  have  me  put  in  my 
time  on  the  big  munition  companies  in  the  western  European  countries.  So 
far  I  have  put  all  my  efforts  on  straight  selling  to  these  countries,  and  I  expect 
to  get  some  results,  but  I  don't  believe  that  that  method  is  going  to  bring  us 
anything  very  big.  I  think,  from  what  I  saw  in  the  Orient,  that  there  are 
very  great  chances  in  favor  of  a  war  in  the  Near  East  and  one  must  include 
the  Balkans  as  being  part  of  the  Near  East. 

This  is  in  1922  that  this  is  being  written. 
Senator  Pope.  Does  Mr.  Taylor  work  on  a  salary  basis  ? 
Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  He  works  on  a  salary  basis. 
The  Chairman  (continuing  reading)  : 

Those  savage  people  don't  know  how  to  live  without  war  and  robberies. 
They  have  in  the  past  been  helped  on  a  certain  line  of  good  conduct  by  fear 
of  the  military  action  of  the  great  powers.  Before  the  Anglo-Turkish  incident 
there  was  still  in  the  Orient  a  great  fear  of  the  western  powers  but  the  fact 
that  both  the  French  and  the  English  refused  to  fight  Kemal  and  are  going 
to  permit  him  to  enter  Europe,  has  given  a  tremendous  blow  to  the  European 
prestige  in  that  part  of  the  country.  All  the  people  are  absolutely  astonished. 
I  saw  Turks,  Bulgarians,  Greeks,  and  Serbians,  and  with  one  accord  they  say 
that  the  great  powers  are  done  for,  that  they  are  afraid  to  fight  and  add 
"  We  don't  have  to  obey  them  any  more." 

To  maintain  European  prestige  in  those  countries  there  was  nothing  to  do 
but  fight  the  Turks  but  as  neither  the  French  nor  the  British  Governments 
felt  it  possible  to  ask  their  people  to  go  to  war,  they  simply  have  had  to/ 
accept  a  tremendous  moral  defeat.  The  result  will  be  that  all  those  near 
eastern  people  will  feel  that  the  time  has  come  to  throw  off  the  government 
of  the  great  powers  and  if  it  does  not  lead  to  one  enormous  war,  it  will  lead 
to  a  great  number  of  small  ones. 

It  would  appear  that  Mr.  Taylor  had  the  picture  pretty  well  in 
hand,  because  it  was  only  shortly  after  he  had  written  that  the  Turk- 
ish trouble  developed,  and  indicates  that  he  had  been  talking  to  pretty 
good  authority. 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  He  was  over  there  studying  the  situation, 
and  I  suppose  he  learned  what  was  pretty  commonly  known  over 
there. 

The  Chairman   (continuing  reading)  : 

If  we  want  to  sell  military  powder  to  these  people,  we  have  got  to  hit  on  the 
proper  plan  and  get  busy  in  a  concentrated  way.  All  these  people  will  prob- 
ably buy  fixed  ammunition,  and  it  looks  to  me  as  if  a  powder  factory  had  a 
fairly  small  chance  of  selling  directly  to  these  countries.  But  the  sales  to  these 
countries  should  be  made  by  the  big  munitions  people  and  perhaps  our  best 
plan  is  to  concentrate  all  our  efforts  on  these  munition  firms. 

How  are  you  selling  in  the  Balkans  at  the  present  time  ?  Direct  or 
not? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  We  are  not  selling. 

The  Chairman.  You  are  not  selling  anything  at  the  present  time? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  No. 

The  Chairman.  What  is  the  situation  since  1922? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Since  1922  we  had  agents,  but  they  were 
unable  to  procure  any  sales  which  amounted  to  anything. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  my  previous  statement  covered  that.  I  think 
I  said  we  found  our  methods  were  apparently  unsuccessful. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2485 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Who  got  the  sales,  Mr.  du  Pont  ? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Who  made  the  sales,  Mr.  Casey  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  know.  We  have  a  list  of  them  but  they  were 
made  by  different  people,  if  they  were  made. 

Senator  Pope.  But  you  did  sell  some  small  orders? 

Mr.  Casey.  No,  sir;  none  at  all. 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  suppose  Greece  is  in  the  Balkans.  We 
made  one  sale  to  Greece. 

Mr.  Casey.  We  made  that  in  our  regular  fashion. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Mr.  Chairman,  you  have  read  this  letter  in 
its  entirety,  and  I  would  like  to  point  out  it  is  evident  from  the  lan- 
guage that  Colonel  Taylor  used  that  he  expected  this  story  to  be  re- 
pulsive to  the  company  management.  He  refers  to  it  as  being  diffi- 
cult to  digest  in  Wilmington.  The  whole  tone  of  his  letter  implies 
that  he  was  repelled  by  the  conditions  which  he  found  in  the  Balkans 
and  he  expected  the  company's  management  to  be  equally  repelled. 
Major  Casey  has  pointed  out,  and  I  have  tried  to,  that  that  repulsion 
was  a  fact.  The  particular  letter  in  question  was  brought  to  the  at- 
tention of  the  executive  committee  and  was  discussed  with  Mr.  Felix 
du  Pont  and  Major  Casey,  and  a  resolution  was  formally  passed  by 
the  executive  committee.  If  I  may,  I  would  like  to  read  that  reso- 
lution. 

The  Chairman.  If  you  would  like  to  insert  it  in  the  record,  and 
have  it  with  you,  the  committee  would  be  glad  to  receive  it.  If  it  is 
not  very  extended,  you  might  read  it. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  This  is  an  extract  from  the  minutes  of  a 
meeting  on  November  15, 1922,  of  the  executive  committee.  The  sub- 
ject is  "  Sales  in  the  Balkans."     [Reading :]  ^ 

Letter  was  received  from  Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont,  general  manager,  smokeless- 
powder  department,  dated  November  7,  1922  (No.  8418),  enclosing  copy  of 
letter  from  Col.  Wm.  N.  Taylor  in  connection  with  the  above  subject.  Mr. 
du  Pont  and  also  Maj.  K.  K.  V.  Casey,  of  the  smokeless-powder  department, 
joined  the  meeting,  and  after  full  discussion,  it  was  moved  and  unanimously 
carried  that  the  aboA^e-mentioned  letters  be  accepted  and  ordered  filed,  and 
that  the  smokeless-powder  department  be  advised  it  is  the  desire  of  the 
executive  committee  that  this  company  should  not  pay  commissions  directly 
or  indirectly  to  Government  officials,  employees,  or  agents. 

The  wish  of  the  executive  committee  in  a  matter  of  that  kind  is 
equivalent  to  a  ruling. 

The  Chairman.  What  was  the  date  of  that  action  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  This  extract  is  November  15,  1922,  and 
refers  to  this  particular  letter. 

The  Chairman.  Does  Mr.  Taylor  represent  your  associates  in  the 
I.  C.  I.  in  any  particular? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Under  the  joint  selling  arrangement 
Colonel  Taylor  did  represent  and  sell  for  the  I.  C.  I. 

Mr.  Casey.  Not  at  that  time. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Not  at  that  time. 

The  Chairman.  Not  at  that  time  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  The  fact  of  the  matter  is  that  the  selling  arrangement 
which  was  entered  into  later  did  not  mean  Taylor's  actions  in  the 
Balkans.     That  was  handled  by  I.  C.  I.     We  never  took  over  the 

1  Entered  as  "Exhibit  No.  959"    (see  p.  2312). 


2486  MUNITIONS   INDUSTEY 

whole  proposition  until  the  arrangement,  I  believe,  of  1932,  was  it 
not?    Yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Do  Vickers  use  I.  C.  I.  powder  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Vickers? 

Mr.  Rausiienbush.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  could  not  tell  you.  I  know  we  have  heard  of  them 
getting  powder  from  Coopal  and  others. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  letter  seems  to  be  largely  a  commentary 
on  Vickers  actions  there,  and  I  was  curious  as  to  whether  I.  C.  I. 
furnished  them  the  powder  in  question. 

The  Chairman.  You  do  not  know  whether  they  did  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  No;  we  really  know  practically  nothing  of  Vickers 
activities,  one  way  or  the  other. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  I  would  like  to  point  out  again, 
Mr.  Chairman,  that  in  a  letter  of  this  kind  from  Colonel  Taylor  to 
his  department,  that  the  statements  made  in  there  are  not  endorsed, 
let  me  say,  by  the  company. 

The  Chairman.  I  think  that  is  quite  evident  from  your  minutes. 
Nevertheless,  we  have  here  rather  a  clear  situation,  it  seems  to  me, 
the  report  of  a  situation,  which  finds  itself  engaged  in  the  sale  of 
munitions  of  war,  quite  ready  to  participate  in  the  game  of  stirring 
up  the  hatreds  and  suspicions  and  fears  of  the  people  in  those 
countries,  all  to  the  end  that  there  might  be  profit  flowing  to  the 
munitions  industry. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  That  may  be  inferred  from  Colonel 
Taylor's  letter,  Mr.  Chairman,  but  that  does  not  make  it  a  fact. 

Senator  Clark.  It  seems  to  me  that  the  letter  at  least  is  very 
illuminating,  as  being  the  report  of  an  acute  and  trained  observer, 
irrespective  of  the  attitude  of  the  du  Pont  Co. 

Mr.  A  Felix  du  Pont.  I  disagree  with  you  there.  Senator  Clark, 
that  he  was  a  trained  observer.  He  was  going  out  into  what  was, 
to  him,  virgin  territory;  and  when  a  person  goes  to  those  countries 
they  meet  with  all  kinds  of  peojDle  and  talk  with  them,  and  the  in- 
formation received  from  that  kind  of  people  is,  I  think,  rather  more 
likely  to  be  incorrect  than  correct. 

Senator  Clark.  How  long  had  Colonel  Taylor  been  in  your  em- 
ploy, Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  A,  Felix  du  Pont.  He  had  been  in  our  employ  in  a  com- 
mercial way  for,  oh,  I  think,  5  or  6  years  before  that. 

Senator  Clark.  He  had  been  stationed  in  Europe,  had  he  not? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Almost  entirely  in  France. 

Senator  Clark.  And  he  had  written  you  voluminous  reports  as  to 
conditions  in  different  countries? 

Mr.  A  Felix  du  Pont.  I  think  not. 

Senator  Clark.  We  have  had  a  great  many  in  evidence  here. 

Mr.  A  Felix  du  Pont.  Prior  to  1922? 

Senator  Clark.  Some  were  prior  to  1922  and  some  were  subsequent 
to  1922. 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  think  very  few  of  them  were  before  1922. 

Senator  Clark.  Colonel  Taylor  is  still  in  your  employ? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Senator  Clark.  You  did  not  discharge  him  as  a  result  of  this 
communication  ? 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2487 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Certainly  not ;  because  he  was  simply  writ- 
ing his  findings. 

The  Chaikman.  Now,  according  to  the  findings,  Sir  Basil  Zahar- 
off  was  outbidding  the  Greeks  at  that  time.  Do  you  know  whether 
or  not  that  was  true? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know.  We  never  had  any  con- 
tact with  Sir  Basil  Zaharoff  whatever. 

The  Chairman.  It  was  at  this  time  that  the  French  were  outbid- 
ding Kemal's  Turkish  Army.  I  was  wondering  if  you  might  have 
any  knowledge  of  the  activities  of  the  sales  at  that  particular  time. 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  No. 

The  Chairman.  The  du  Ponts  had  no  knowledge  at  that  time? 

Mr.  Casey.  None  whatever. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Not  to  my  knowledge. 

Mr.  Casey.  The  only  thing  we  got  was  from  the  newspapers. 

The  Chairman.  All  this  was  just  prior  to  the  Turkish-Greek  War, 
and  it  would  appear  that  the  British  were  arming  the  Greeks  for 
50  percent  commission  and  the  French  were  arming  Turkey.  In  the 
light  of  that  experience  and  in  the  light  of  the  profit  which  flowed, 
I  wonder  if  there  could  be  really  much  occasion  to  be  wondering  why 
there  was  a  conference  in  1925  which  resulted  in  anything  but  failure. 

Surely  the  British  and  French  munitions  makers,  in  the  light  of 
what  they  had  done  in  Turkey  and  in  Greece  at  that  time,  would  not 
want  any  agreement  entered  into  which  might  restrict  what  they 
were  doing  in  those  fields,  I  am  sure. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Senator,  we  have  no  right  to  state  what  the 
manufacturers  of  munitions  in  Europe  have  done  or  said.  We  know 
that  we  had  no  part  in  the  disarmament  conferences.  Is  it  not  fair 
to  assume  that  they  had  no  part  either  ?  It  is  true  some  of  our  news- 
paper reports  and  some  of  the  information  which  Colonel  Taylor 
picked  up  would  indicate  otherwise.  We  have  no  assurance  whatever 
that  the  information  Colonel  Taylor  picked  up  was  authentic  or 
true. 

The  Chairman.  You  mean  in  connection  with  that  1925  confer- 
ence ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir;  or  any  other  conference. 

The  Chairman.  Is  it  not  true  that  your  company  did  participate 
in  the  conferences  that  were  held  prior  to  the  departure  of  the 
American  delegation  to  the  Geneva  Conference? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  We  participated  in  a  conference  called 
by  the  Department  of  Commerce  at  the  request  of  the  Department  of 
State,  but  we  did  not 

The  Chairman.  I  am  going  to  deny  very  emphaticallv  here  this 
morning  that  that  was  at  the  request  of  the  Department  of  State. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  was  referring  to  the  telegram  which  was 
read  into  the  record. 

Senator  Pope.  ^Vhat  telegram? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  there  was  a  telegram  read  into 
the  record  to  that  effect. 

The  Chairman.  That  was  a  press  dispatch. 

Senator  Clark.  You  w^ere  referring  to  the  press  dispatch  wdiich 
Senator  Vandenberg  read? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  was  a  telegram. 

83876— 35— PT  11 7 


2488  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Senator  Clark.  It  was  a  newspaper  flimsy.  He  was  reading  a 
statement  made  by  Mr.  Hoover  to  the  press. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  was  a  telegram. 

Senator  Clark.  Not  the  one  which  Senator  Vandenberg  read  into 
the  record.    It  was  a  United  Press  flimsy. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  might  have  been  in  error.  It  looked  like 
a  telegram  to  me. 

The  Chairman.  Mr.  Felix  du  Pont,  as  relates  to  your  contacts, 
is  the  acceptance  of  graft  confined  to  the  Balkan  countries,  or  does 
it  prevail  in  other  territories  in  which  your  company  is  selling 
powder  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Senator,  might  I  interrupt  a  moment,  to 
finish  the  answer  which  was  interrupted  by  this  question,  as  to  the 
telegram  ? 

The  Chairman.  Yes. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  We  did  not  participate  in  the  Geneva 
Conference.  That  was  a  statement  which  I  wished  to  make.  I  think 
that  your  question  inferred  that  we  had.  We  had  not  participated  in 
it. 

The  Chairman.  No;  but  you  did  participate  in  the  conferences 
which  were  held  here? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  At  the  request  of  the  Government. 

The  Chairman.  All  right,  let  us  put  it  that  way. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  At  the  invitation  of  the  Government. 

The  Chairman.  The  conferences  called  by  agencies  of  the  Gov- 
ernment.   You  did  participate  in  those? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir. 

The  Chairman.  At  which  v/ere  present  the  representatives  of  the 
munitions  industry,  secretaries,  and  delegates  who  had  been  named 
to  the  Geneva  Conference? 

Mr.  Lammont  du  Pont.  I  am  not  sure  that  the  delegates  were 
present. 

The  Chairman.  I  think  the  record  is  very  clear  on  that. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  The  conference  called  by  the  Department 
of  Commerce,  to  which  we  were  invited,  the  first  such  conference, 
the  delegates  were  not  present. 

The  Chairman.  At  the  first  one? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  You  will  recall  that  a  committee  was  aj3- 
pointed  to  meet  later  when  the  delegates  could  be  present? 

The  Chairman.  But  a  second  conference  was  held? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir. 

The  Chairman.  At  which  they  were  present,  these  men  who  had 
been  delegated  to  the  Geneva  Conference. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir. 

The  Chairman.  Now,  Mr.  du  Pont,  these  practices  which  Colonel 
Taylor  has  led  us  to  believe  were  necessary  to  resort  to  in  the 
Balkans,  are  those  practices  confined  alone  to  the  Balkans? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  No;  I  think  in  speaking  of  it  a  short  while 
ago  I  said  then  I  believed  that  those  practices  in  general  trade  in  the 
Orient,  meaning  the  whole  Near  East  and  Far  East,  that  they  are 
looked  upon  differently  from  the  way  tliey  are  in  this  counti\y,  and 
I  have  been  told  are  necessary  in  order  to  carry  on  trade  in  those 
countries. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2489 

METHODS    OF    DOING    BUSINESS POLAND 

The  Chairman.  Who  is  William  H.  OXiorman? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  He  was  the  assistant  director  of  sales  of 
my  department.    He  is  now  dead.    He  was  assistant  to  Casey. 

The  Chairman.  I  would  like  to  ask  as  to  the  meaning  of  this 
letter  addressed  by  Colonel  Taylor  to  Mr.  William  H.  O'Gorman, 
dated  January  18,  1928,  in  connection  with  your  negotiations  in 
Poland  [reading]  : 

I  am  now  working  on  a  proposal  to  help  Zaiorzdon,  in  return  for  which 
we  are  to  get  300  tons  a  year  for  12  years.  Thei-e  is  one  aspect  of  this 
negotiation  on  which  I  must  know  exactly  where  I  stand,  and  that  is,  in 
order  to  get  this  we  will  have  to  pay  7  percent  commission,  of  which  2  percent 
must  be  paid  in  its  entirety  the  day  of  the  signing  of  the  contract.  If  I  can 
promise  this,  I  have  a  good  chance  of  getting  away  with  this  order.  Cable 
me  firm  answer. 

Sincerely  yours, 

William  X.  Taylor. 

That  will  be  offered  as  "  Exhibit  No.  949." 

(The  letter  referred  to  Avas  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  949  "  and  ap- 
pears in  full  in  the  text.) 

The  Chairman.  What  is  the  meaning  of  that,  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know. 

The  Chairman.  Did  Mr.  O'Gorman  consult  you  at  the  time? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  do  not  remember  if  he  did.  I  do  want 
to  mention,  however,  that  this  is  one  of  those  sales  propositions  that 
never  came  through.    Is  not  that  correct  ? 

The  Chairman.  Whether  or  not  it  came  through,  vou  gave  your 
consent  to  it,  did  you  not '{ 

Mr.  Ratjshenbush.  What  was  Major  Casey's  answer  to  your 
question  ? 

The  Chairman.  Had  he  directed  a  question  to  Major  Casey? 

Mr.  Casey.  It  is  a  question  of  the  date. 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Three  hundred  tons  a  vear  for  12  years. 

Mr.  Casey,  No;  that  never  came  through.  Zarorzdon  was  the 
Polish  powder  plant. 

The  Chairman.  What  was  the  thought  there  involving  the  neces- 
sity of  paying  2  percent  of  this  commission,  of  this  7-percent  com- 
mission, on  the  day  of  the  signing  of  the  contract? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is  because  the  agent,  a  man  by  the  name  of 
Klawe,  said  he  could  not  possibly  get  along  with  a  5-percent  commis- 
sion, and  other  expenses  of  his  office,  the  financial  adviser  he  had  to 
use,  and  that  he  was  put  to  considerable  expense  because  he  had  to 
pay  this  fellow  who  was  his  financial  backer. 

Senator  Clark.  He  had  to  pay  that  2  percent  on  the  whole  12-vear 
contract  ?  '' 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes,  sir;  because  the  banker  was  through  when  the 
deal  was  terminated. 

Senator  Clark.  The  banker  was  not  taking  any  chances. 

Mr.  Casey  You  bet  your  life  he  was  not.  Not  if  he  was  a  banker. 
He  wanted  that  2  percent.  In  other  words,  he  had  to  pay  this  2  per- 
cent CO  the  banker,  and  I  felt  it  was  only  fair  to  him  that  we  should 
anticipate  his  commission  to  the  extent  of  2  percent,  so  that  he  could 
get  rid  of  that  oblijration. 


2490  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

The  ChzVirman.  I  offer  as  an  exhibit  a  letter  dated  February  3, 
1928,  addressed  to  Colonel  Taylor  by  Mr.  O'Gorman,  which  will  be 
"  Exhibit  No.  950." 

(The  letter  referied  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  950  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2597.) 

The  Chairman.  I  read  from  it  [reading] : 

You  may  be  sure  in  the  event  that  you  conclude  a  deal  along  the  lines  indi- 
cated in  your  letter  of  January  IS,  that  I  will  promptly  remit  by  cable  the 
amount  involved  to  pay  the  2  percent  commission,  so  that  there  will  be  no  delay. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  that  matter  has  pretty  well  been  covered,  the 
reason  for  that  immediate  payment. 

The  Chairman.  That  contract  did  not  ever  materialize.  However, 
an  exactly  similar  arrangement  had  previously  been  negotiated,  had 
it  not? 

Mr.  Casey.  About  the  same  time  we  got  a  contract  from  Poland 
for  a  thousand  tons,  somewhere  around  1927  or  1928. 

The  Chairman.  I  offer  "  Exhibit  No.  951  ",  which  is  a  letter  to 
Colonel  Taylor  by  Mr.  O'Gorman,  under  date  of  July  3,  1928. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  951  ",  and  is  in- 
cluded in  the  appendix  on  p.  2597.) 

I  read  from  it  [reading]  : 

In  regard  to  advance  of  2  percent  on  agent's  commission  on  new  order,  this 
matter  can  be  handled  exactly  the  same  as  we  did  on  the  1,000-ton  conti'act  so 
that  the  money  will  be  available  upon  receipt  of  telegraphic  advices  from  you. 
You  may  rely  upon  me  to  personally  take  care  of  this  matter  so  that  the  funds 
will  be  placed  to  Mr.  Klawe's  credit  within  48  hours  after  receipt  of  telegraphic 
advices  from  you. 

Now,  the  question,  who  was  Mr.  Klawe? 

Mr.  Casey.  He  was  our  agent  in  Warsaw. 

The  Chairman.  Two  percent  involves  in  this  particular  contract 
a  sum  of  about  $30,000.  Is  it  customary,  Mr.  Felix  du  Pont,  to 
advance  such  sums  to  j^our  agents  on  the  day  contracts  are  signed, 
when  the  prospects  for  payment  are  so  far  in  the  future?  Is  that 
a  customary  practice? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  No;  I  do  not  think  it  is.  I  think  those 
things  are  judged  according  to  the  conditions  when  they  are  brought 
up. 

The  Chairman.  Wliat  induced  you  to  make  an  exception,  then,  or 
to  make  that  advance  in  this  particular  case? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Just  on  the  information  we  had,  we 
thought  we  would  do  as  Colonel  Taylor  recommended. 

The  Chairman.  Is  it  not  likely  that  Mr.  Klawe  had  to  pay  some 
key  man  before  this  contract  could  be  finally  entered  into  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator  Nye,  I  do  not  think  so.  I  would  like  to  give 
you  an  illustration  of  our  contact  with  the  Polish  inspectors  that 
came  over  here  in  connection  with  the  thousand-ton  contract. 

In  order  to  avoid  the  slightest  semblance  of  any  irregularity  on 
their  part,  they  would  not  accept  from  us  an  invitation,  "  Let's  go 
down  and  have  lunch."  They  would  say.  "  Yes,  if  you  will  have 
lunch  with  me  tomorrow." 

That  was  their  attitude  all  the  way  through.  And  they  not  only 
took  that  attitude,  but  we  felt  they  were  sometimes  leaning  over 
backwards  to  avoid  any  accusation,  whatsoever,  that  they  accepted 
any  favors  of  any  sort  from  us  that  they  did  not  promptly  return. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2491 

With  that  atmosphere.  I  do  not  see  where  there  is  the  slightest 
idea  that  we  could  possibly  have  had  that  there  was  going  to  be  any- 
thing in  the  slightest  degree  irregular. 

Senator  Claek.  Who  paid  the  expenses  of  that  Polish  commission, 
Major? 

Mr.  Casey.  They  did;  the  Polish  Government. 

The  Chairman.  You  do  not  think  that  the  payment  of  this  com- 
mission involved  the  necessity  of  Mr.  Klawe's  paying  others  before 
the  deal  could  be  finally  put  through  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  believe  so. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Mr.  Chairman,  you  will  recall  that  the 
resolution  of  the  executive  committee  addressed  to  the  smokeless- 
powder  department  was  earlier  than  this  proposed  contract.  The 
smokeless-powder  department  was  well  aware  of  the  attitude  of  the 
executive  committee.  They  knew  that  a  contract  of  this  size  would 
have  to  come  to  the  attention  of  the  executive  committee.  It  was 
entirely  unreasonable  that  they  should  have  had  in  mind  any  pro- 
vision of  the  kind  that  you  suggest. 

The  Chairman.  I  offer  now  "  Exhibit  No.  952  ",  a  letter  dated 
May  20,  1930,  by  Mr.  O'Gorman  to  the  Parlin  plant,  industrial  fin- 
ishes division,  export  department.  Evidently  Mr.  J.  H.  Frechen  of 
that  department  had  made  inquiry  concerning  this  particular  deal. 
He  says  [reading] : 

In  reply  to  your  letter  of  May  14  and  contirming  our  telephone  conversation 
on  the  above  subject,  we  are  slart  to  advise  tliat  Mr.  Klawe  has  been  agent  for 
the  military  sales  division  in  Poland  for  the  past  6  years,  during  which  time  he 
was  successful  in  obtaining  for  us  orders  from  the  Polish  Government  for  large 
Quantities  of  smokeless  powder.  Some  of  the  sales  were  made  on  a  cash  basis, 
others  on  credit  extending  ovei-  a  year  and  a  half,  and  on  the  last  contract, 
which  was  for  1.000  tons  of  powder,  payments  extended  over  a  3-year  period. 

I  jump  over  the  next  paragraph  [reading]  : 

Mr.  Klawe's  commission  on  the  above-mentioned  contract  was  7  percent  or 
approximately  $126,000.  Upon  signing  of  the  contract,  even  before  we  received 
the  Polish  notes,  we  made  iin  advance  pavment  of  commission  to  Mr.  Kin  we  of 

.$30,000. 

He  got  his  2  percent  even  before  the  deal  was  finally  closed? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  No,  sir ;  that  is  not  correct. 

(The  letter  referied  to  was  marked  '*  Exhibit  No.  952  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2598.) 

Mr.  Casey.  No;  before  we  got  the  first  notes. 

The  Chairman.  Even  l^efore  the  notes  were  signed? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes;  but  not  before  the  deal  was  closed. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  He  does  not  say  before  the  notes  wej?e 
signed,  either,  Mr.  Chairman.  It  says  before  we  received  the  Polish 
notes. 

The  Chairman.  I  see. 

Then  Ave  go  to  the  last  paragraph  on  that  page  [reading]  : 

In  dealing  with  the  Polish  Government  you  are  rattier  fortunate  to  have  Mr, 
Klawe  as  agent  as  he  is  a  man  who  is  very  well  connected  and  thoroughly  un- 
derstands what  must  be  done  in  order  to  secure  business.  He  is  very  trust- 
worthy, and  I  suggest  that  you  follow  his  advices  so  far  as  the  obtaining  of 
Polish  Government  business  is  concerned. 

What  are  Mr.  Klawe's  connections,  referred  to  here? 
Mr.  Casey.  He  is  looked  on  in  Poland  as  a  man  of  unusually  high 
standing,  and,  by  the  very  nature  of  things,  he  is  accepted  as  a  man 


2492  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

of  intej^rity,  and  therefore  a  man  that  the  Government  feels  they 
can  deal  with.  I  consider  that  we  were  fortunate  in  getting  him  as 
our  agent. 

Senator  Pope.  Outside  of  his  agency  for  you,  what  was  his  busi- 
ness, his  general  profession  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  Mr.  Brad  way  can  answer  that,  because  he  has 
met  Klavfe  and  has  had  dinner  with  him. 

The  Chairman.  Please  come  forward,  Mr.  Bradway. 

Mr.  Bradway,  have  you  been  sworn  ? 

Mr.  Bradway.  No. 

TESTIMONY  OF  F.  W.  BRADWAY 

m 

(The  witness  was  duly  sworn  by  the  chairman.) 

The  Chairman.  The  question  has  been  asked  and  the  point  has 
been  made  that  you  perhaps  could  tell  us  more  about  Mr.  Klawe,  your 
representative  in  Poland,  than  anyone  else  could.  What  do  you 
know  of  him? 

Mr.  Bradway.  He  is  a  mechanical  engineer,  as  I  recall  it,  and  he 
had  had  to  do  with  the  construction  of  several  manufacturing  build- 
ings in  both  Warsaw  and  in  St.  Petersburg — that  was  prior  to  the 
war,  in  St.  Petersburg — and  he  had  a  sort  of  a  small  factory  there 
where  he  refinished  automobiles.  In  general  he  was  quite  highly 
respected  by  the  people  in  Warsaw. 

Senator  Pope.  What  is  your  present  position? 

Mr.  Bradway.  I  am  assistant  general  manager  of  the  smokeless- 
powder  department. 

Senator  Pope.  Of  the  du  Pont  Co.? 

Mr.  Bradway.  Yes;  smokeless-powder  department. 

The  Chairman.  Is  it  the  custom  to  pay  as  much  as  7  percent  com- 
mission on  that  business  in  Poland  ? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  think  that  the  amount  of  the  commission 
is  in  a  general  way  dependent  upon  the  question  of  whether  you  have 
to  find  an  agent  who  can  do  the  job  for  you  and  get  the  orders  for 
you.  If  you  cannot  do  it  yourself,  you  get  an  agent  who  can,  and  the 
question  of  whether  you  can  do  it  or  not  yourself  very  much  decides 
the  amount  of  the  commission  the  agent  gets. 

The  Chairman.  Have  you  had  to  pay  higher  rates,  higher  commis- 
sions than  that  in  connection  with  any  of  your  sales  ? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  could  not  answer  that.    I  am  not  sure. 

The  Chairman.  Mr.  Casey? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  7  percent  would  represent  a  little  higher  than 
average.  There  may  have  been  exceptions  to  that,  but  you  must  re- 
alize this :  The  payment  of  a  commission  to  an  agent  is  very  much 
more  economical  from  our  viewpoint  than  for  us  to  establish  a  branch 
office  for  the  sale  of  military  material  in  any  country.  I  think  it  does 
not  take  very  much  thought  to  realize  that. 

Senator  Clark.  In  other  words,  you  do  not  have  to  pay  any  perma- 
nent overhead  or  salaries? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

It  is  necessary  that  somebody  be  there  all  the  time.  It  is  not  like  a 
commercial  proposition,  where  there  might  be  a  broadcast  that  they 
are  going  to  build  a  bridge,  and  everybody  can  rush  there  to  see  that 
they  have  a  chance  to  bid.     You  never  know  at  what  moment  any 


MUNITIONS   INDCrSTRY  2493 

government  may  decide,  "  Well,  now,  this  is  the  time  we  ought  to  buy 
something."  So  the  man  who  is  right  there  on  the  job,  practically, 
you  might  say,  almost  in  the  capacity  of  being  a  branch  office,  except 
we  have  no  control  over  him,  is  much  cheaper  to  have.  In  other 
words,  if  we  had  to  do  business  throughout  the  world  or  try  to  do 
business  by  having  branch  offices,  we  would  probably  be  in  the  busi- 
ness about  one  year  and  quit.    It  would  be  costing  us  too  much. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Have  you  ever  paid  commissions  higher  thafi 
7  percent? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Mr.  Chairman,  I  think  I  can  answer  that 
question  from  the  standpoint  of  general  business. 

The  Chairman.  Will  you,  whoever  can  answer  it? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  would  like  to  answer  it  from  that  stand- 
point. 

The  Chairman.  All  right. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Certainly  there  is  no  fixed  amount  for  a 
business  commission.  They  run  anywhere  from  one-eighth  of  1 
percent,  the  usual  brokerage  in  stock  transactions,  up  to  as  high  as 
30  or  more  percent  in  commercial  goods  selling.  The  ordinary  com- 
mission for  an  automobile  dealer  agency  is  25  percent. 

The  Chairman.  On  the  sale  of  powder,  do  you  mean  to  say  that 
you  have  paid  commissions  as  high  as  30  percent? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  think  so ;  no,  sir. 

Mr.  Casey.  No. 

The  Chairman.  In  what  instances  have  you  paid  more  than  7 
percent  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  we  may  have  paid  or  offered  to  pay  at  least 
10  percent,  possibly  15.  But  you  must  realize  this,  that  the  ques- 
tion of  how  much  commission  depends  to  a  great  extent  on  the  a^ent. 
Some  agents  will  say,  "  We  cannot  afford  to  take  this  proposition 
on  for  any  5-percent  basis,  because  the  amount  of  business  is  going 
to  be  so  small  it  will  not  even  pay  us  to  carry  on  negotiations." 

On  the  other  hand,  as  to  some  other  nation,  it  might  be  a  case 
where  the  man  would  say,  "Why,  yes;  5  percent  is  all  right  with 
me.     I  will  get  by  with  that." 

So  as  to  the  question  of  saying  there  is  any  fixed  agency  price, 
that  is  entirely  dependent  on  the  type  of  man  you  get  for  agent  and 
the  nation  he  is  selling  to. 

There  is  another  side.  Senator.  We  naturally  try  to  restrict  the 
amount  paid  in  commission,  because  whatever  is  paid  in  commission 
is  added  and  above  our  base  price,  and  therefore,  any  increase  in 
commission  means  it  puts  our  price  that  much  higher,  which  makes 
it  bad  from  the  standpoint  of  competition.  So  we  are  on  our  part 
doing  our  best  to  keep  the  commission  as  low  as  possible,  and  at 
the  same  time  the  agent  is  doing  his  best  to  get  the  commission  as 
high  as  possible. 

Senator  Clark.  How  much  would  be  the  commission  involved  in 
this  Polish  contract  that  Senator  Nye  was  talking  about,  7  percent 
on  3,000  tons  for  12  years? 

Mr.  Casey.  No  ;  on  a  thousand  tons. 

Senator  Clark.  No;  but  the  other  proposition  that  I  understand 
was  never  consummated. 

Mr.  Casey.  Oh,  the  other  proposition  ?  You  see,  there  would  have 
been  a  12-year  contract,  300  tons  a  year. 


2494  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Senator  Clark.  Three  hundred  or  three  thousand? 

Mr.  Casey.  Three  hundred  tons  a  year.  We  could  not  produce 
3,000  tons  a  year. 

Senator  Clark.  How  much  was  involved  ?  I  was  just  trying  to  get 
an  idea  of  the  size  of  the  commission  involved  on  that  Major. 

Mr.  Casey.  You  are  asking  me  to  do  some  mental  gymnastics  here. 

Senator  Clark.  I  thought  you  would  be  familiar  with  the  subject. 

Mr.  Casey.  No.  We  never  went  any  further,  to  figure  out  what  it 
would  be. 

The  Chairman.  Mr.  O'Gorman's  figure  on  that  was  $1,846,000. 

Senator  Clark.  That  was  on  the  thousand  tons. 

The  Chairman.  For  your  information,  the  total  sales  price  of  the 
thousand  tons  of  smokeless  powder  amounted  to  $1,846,000. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Clark.  You  can  figure  the  commission  on  that. 

The  Chairman.  That  commission  would  figure  $168,000. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Mr.  Casey  and  Mr.  Bradway,  were  there  any 
other  instances  where  an  arrangement  like  this  of  a  2-percent  com- 
mission or  a  definite  part  of  a  commission  had  to  be  paid  on  the  very 
day  the  contract  was  signed  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  know  that  there  was  in  this,  particular  case, 
you  see.  It  involved  credit,  the  credit  to  be,  you  might  say,  in  the 
form  of  Polish  notes.  That  required  the  services  of  a  local  banker 
who  knew  the  situation  as  to  the  Polish  method  of  finances.  There- 
fore, this  banker  was  put  to  a  tremendous  amount  of  work  to  investi- 
gate the  whole  thing  before  we  were  willing  to  accept  those  notes. 
We  had  to  get  some  local  banker's  opinion. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Do  you  have  any  reports  from  Mr.  Taylor  re- 
ferring to  that  banker  ?     We  do  not  seem  to  have  run  into  them  at  all. 

Mr.  Bradway,  while  Mr.  Case}'^  is  looking  for  that,  can  j^-ou  answer 
from  your  memory  on  that  matter:  Were  there  ever  any  other  in- 
stances where  a  part  of  the  commission  had  to  be  paid  on  the  very 
day  of  the  signing  of  the  contract? 

Mr.  Bradway.  I  cannot  recall  that. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  was  a  somewhat  unusual  case. 

Mr.  Casey.  Mr.  Raushenbush,  it  would  not  be  at  all  out  of  the  ordi- 
nary for  a  proposition  of  this  sort,  where  the  contract  provided  that 
the  agent's  commission  is  not  paid  until  the  notes  had  been  paid,  and 
not  when  the  notes  are  received  by  us,  but  the  notes  have  been  paid. 
In  the  meantime,  this  thousand-ton  proposition  had  been  worked  on 
for  several  years  before  it  was  finally  brought  to  a  conclusion. 

The  Chairman.  Did  Klawe  do  the  work? 

Mr.  Casey.  He  did  the  work. 

Senator  Clark.  The  2  percent  that  had  to  be  paid  cash  on  the 
barrel  head  on  the  day  of  signing  the  contract  did  not  have  to  do, 
if  I  recall  it,  with  the  thousand-ton  transaction? 

Mr.  Casey.  It  had  to  do  with  the  thousand-ton  likewise. 

Senator  Clark.  You  had  to  pay  the  commission^ 

Mr.  Casey.  We  had  already  paid  it  at  the  time  this  12  years 
developed. 

Senator  Clark.  And  this  other  one  was  to  be  based  on  the  same? 

Mr.  Casey.  It  was  simply  a  duplication  of  it. 

You  just  take  the  position  of  an  agent.  Here  he  is  getting  a 
commission  and  nothing  else.    After  he  has  done  a  certain  amount 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2495 

of  work,  some  of  these  agents  say,  "  I  would  like  to  have  half  my 
commission  ",  because  after  all,  when  the  contract  is  signed  you 
might  say  the  agent's  job  is  done,  isn't  that  true?  He  has  negotiated 
the  contract  to  the  extent  of  where  our  own  man  then  can  go  in 
and  sign.  Now,  really,  his  work  is  done.  Except  in  this  case, 
Klawe  also  had  to  help  us  in  seeing  that  the  notes  that  were  called 
for  under  the  terms  of  the  contract  were  sent  out  at  the  proper 
tune.  So  he  in  reality  had  a  continuing  job.  Whereas  ordinarily 
an  agent's  or  a  salesman's  job  on  a  particular  piece  of  business  is 
completed  when  the  contract  is  signed.  In  a  great  many  cases  you 
will  find  that  agents  are  paid  their  commissions  in  full  when  a 
transaction  is  closed. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  What  cases  do  you  mean,  your  company  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  mean  the  commercial  business,  in  commercial  busi- 
ness. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  The  usual  architect's  com.mission  is  paid 
one-third  on  completion  of  the  plans. 

Senator  Clark.  That  is  because  he  has  done  a  third  of  the  work. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  The  agent  had  done  his  work  in  this 
powder  case. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  reason  for  this  line  of  questioning,  Mr. 
Chairman,  is  that  we  had  a  good  deal  of  these  advance  commissions 
in  the  case  of  another  company,  the  Electric  Boat  Co.,  so  I  was 
interested  in  tracing  them  down. 

Mr.  Casey.  Mr.  Raushenbush,  you  are  questioning  du  Pont  now, 
are  you  not,  not  another  company? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  We  do  not  know  whif  this  means,  Mr.  Casey. 

The  Chairman.  You  do  not  have  direct  knowledge  of  having 
paid  more  than  7  percent  for  powder  sales,  do  you  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  No.  I  do  not  have  any  direct  knowledge  at  the  mo- 
ment. It  may  be  that  we  did,  but  if  so,  it  was  on  a  very  small  piece 
of  business. 

The  Chairman.  Is  there  any  significance  in  the  language  which 
Mr.  O'Gorman  uses  in  this  memorandum  from  Mr.  Frechen,  when 
he  says  of  Mr.  Klawe  that — 

He  is  a  man  who  is  very  well  connected  and  thoroughly  understands  what 
must  be  done  in  order  to  secure  business? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  think  there  is  the  slightest  bit  of  significance 
in  that  at  all.  You  must  realize  that  this  was  a  letter  being  sent 
from  one  department  to  another  department. 

Tlie  Chairman.  That  is  right. 

Mr.  Casey.  We  felt  that  Klawe  was  a  good  man  for  us,  and  we 
were  trying  to  make  as  good  a  case  as  possible  for  Klawe  for  this 
other  department,  because  it  had  this  advantage  to  us :  If  Klawe 
likewise  had  an  agency  for  another  branch  of  the  company,  then  we 
would  keep  him  more  contented. 

We  had  from  our  agents  requests  such  as,  "  Well,  won't  you  give  us 
a  retainer,  because  we  go  along  year  after  year,  and  no  business." 
In  some  cases  we  have  to  pay  a  nominal  sum,  of  $25,  $50,  or  $100  a 
year,  so  that  they  will  pay  the  expenses  of  keeping  their  files.  They 
say,  "  Why,  we  do  not  got  enough  even  to  pay  the  expense  of  keep- 
ing our  files  up  and  our  correspondence." 


2496  MUNITIONS   INDUSTKY 

Senator  Clakk.  Klawe  has  been  pretty  well  paid,  Major.  The 
commission  on  this  one  transaction  of  a  thousand  tons  ran  about 
one-hundred-and-eightj^-some  thousand  dollars. 

Mr.  Casey.  How  many  years  has  he  worked  ? 

Senator  Clark.  I  do  not  know. 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is  the  way  you  have  to  look  at  it. 

Senator  Clark.  That  seems  to  be  fair  compensation. 

Mr.  Casey.  You  take  the  amount  of  work  he  has  done  for  a  period 
of  we  will  say  10  years,  if  you  like,  and  he  has  gotten  this  order, 
which  gave  $180,000. 

Senator  Clark.  At  that  figure  you  are  not  going  to  the  poorhouse. 

Mr.  Casey.  Let  us  admit  that.  But  is  not  the  man  who  does  the 
work  entitled  to  his  reward? 

Senator  Clark.  Yes;  but  you  were  talking  about  his  being  dis- 
satisfied.   I  say  he  is  doing  pretty  well. 

Mr.  Casey.  The  fact  remains  that  since  that  time  we  have  not 
done  any  business  with  Poland. 

The  Chairman.  Prior  to  this  1928  sale,  how  long  prior  to  that 
had  Mr.  Klawe  been  recognized  as  a  representative  in  Poland? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  could  not  say  the  exact  date,  but  I  would  say  at 
least  3  or  4  years  and  iDOssibly  more. 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Senator  Nye,  there  was  no  sale  in  1928. 

The  Chairman.  1927  was  the  sale. 

Mr.  Bradway.  He  had  been  our  agent  for  at  least  3  or  4  years 
prior  to  that. 

Mr.  Casey.  Three  or  four  years ;  I  am  not  quite  sure. 

The  Chairman.  Can  you  say  that  Mr.  Klawe  negotiated  this  deal 
without  the  resort  to  any  payment  of  graft  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  can  never  say  that  any  man  negotiates  a  deal  and 
say  that  I  know  positively  that  he  has  not.     That  is  beyond  me. 

The  Chairman.  But  it  has  not  been  made  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  But  there  has  not  been  the  slightest  knowledge  on  our 
part  that  any  such  thing  was  necessary,  because  in  the  first  place, 
Klawe  was  looked  on  as  a  man  of  such  integrity  that  we  would  not 
suspect  it. 

The  Chairman.  That  is  not  true  as  respects  some  other  places  or 
sales,  is  it?  You  do  have  knowledge  that  graft  is  necessary  in  con- 
nection with  some  sales? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  would  not  even  say  that.  We  sometimes  suspect, 
but  that  is  a  thing  that  we  may  be  absolutely  unjust  about,  suspi- 
cion. 

methods    of   doing   business CHINA 

The  Chairman.  Did  you  not  do  more  than  suspect  as  relates  to 
your  negotiations  in  China? 

Mr.  Casey.  Then  we  found  out. 

The  Chairman.  Then  you  found  out? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

The  Chairman.  So  it  is  not  a  matter  of  suspicion  there  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  No.  I  am  trying  to  tell  you  to  the  best  of  my  know- 
ledge how  we  look  at  these  things. 

The  Chairman.  You  have  done  considerable  business,  Mr.  Casey, 
in  China. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2497 

Mr.  Casey.  From  the  time  of  lifting  the  embargo  I  think  over  a 
period  of  3  or  4  years,  we  did  probably  an  average,  I  will  sslj — what 
was  it,  about? 

Mr.  Bradway.  $800,000,  total. 

Mr.  Casey.  $200,000  or  $300,000  a  year. 

The  Chairman.  In  these  negotiations  in  China  and  other  dealings 
with  a  Colonel  de  Fremerj^ — who  was  De  Fremery? 

Mr.  Casey.  De  Fremery,  as  he  came  to  our  attention  through  Mr. 
Van  Veen,  who  was  our  agent  in  Holland — he  advised  us  that  Mr. 
de  Fremery  was  going  over  there  to  advise  the  Chinese  Government 
on  ordnance  matters. 

The  Chairman.  He  was  originally  from  where? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  understand  from  Holland.  Whether  he  is  a  Hol- 
lander I  do  not  know,  but  the  name  might  indicate  otherwise. 

The  Chairman.  I  have  before  me  excerpts  from  a  letter  written 
by  Mr.  O'Gorman  to  the  circulation  manager  of  the  du  Pont  maga- 
zine, saying  of  Colonel  de  Fremery  rhis : 

Colonel  De  Fremery  is  a  Dutch  ofBcor  working  uniler  contract  with  the 
Chinese  Government  as  an  adviser. 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is  right. 

The  Chairman.  You  understand  him  to  be  that. 

I  offer  "  Exhibit  No.  953  ",  cable  dated  September  23,  1929,  to  Col. 
W.  N.  Taylor. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  9o3  ",  and  appears 
in  full  in  the  text.) 

The  Chairman.  I  read: 

Cable  No.  660 :  Following  telegiam  has  been  received  from  N.  E.  Bates : 
Would  suggest  v.e  do  not  pay  any  other  commissions  except  7.5  percent  Preston, 
Wills,  DyestufCs,  Wilmington,  du  Pont  Dyestufit's  Office,  Shanghai,  China,  will 
advance  all  prices  at  plant  5  rerreiit  for  distribution  as  follows:  4  percent 
Chinese  Army,  Nanking;  1  percent  Coi.  de  Fremery.  N.  E.  Bates  does  not  know 
of  any  good  i-eason  for  payment  commission  by  Col.  W.  N.  Taylor.  Unless  there 
is  good  reason  to  contrary  we  will  advise  N.  E.  Bates  to  settle  definitely  on  the 
basis  quoted. 

Who  can  tell  us  the  meaning  of  that? 

Mr.  Casey.  This  \^as  an  arrangement  made  by  Bates  after  he  got 
over  there  in  China.  It  was  brought  out  the  other  day  that  we  had 
severed  our  conneciion  with  I,  V.  Giliis.  Because  of  the  embargo  in 
China  we  felt  there  was  no  chance  for  him,  since  we  really  had  hung 
onto  him  year  after  year  with  the  idea  perhaps  that  the  embargo 
might  be  lifted.  I  think  that  a  few  months  after  vre  severed  our 
connection  with  Giliis,  the  embargo  was  lifted.  When  we  tried  to 
get  Giliis  bacJv  we  found  that  he  had  made  some  other  connection. 
The  result  was  we  were  looking  for  a  new  method  of  getting  into 
China,  when  this  opportunity  arose  in  Europe  through  Van  Veen. 
The  very  first  arrangement  was  that  Van  Veen  insisted  that  he  should 
have  8  percent,  and  out  of  that  8  percent  he  was  going  to  take  care 
of  De  Fremery.  Then  we  later  learned  from  the  Chinese  Govern- 
ment that  they  did  not  want  to  do  business  through  intermediaries, 
that  they  Avanted  to  do  busines  direct.  I  think  that  came  out  the 
other  day. 

We  had  in  Shanghai  an  office  of  the  dyestuffs  department  of  the 
du  Pont  Co.,  so  we  asked  Dr.  NoeJting  if  he  would  take  care  of  the 
matter  for  us. 


2498  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Then  we  were  up  against  this  proposition :  The  dyestuffs  depart- 
ment said,  '•  Yes,  but  this  is  going  to  cost  us  money."  We  were 
going  to  face  the  proposition  of  paying  Van  Veen  8  percent,  which 
Look  care  of  De  Fremery,  and  also  from  the  smokeless  powder  depart- 
ment paying  into  the  dyestuffs  department  a  certain  amount,  which 
all  meant  boosting  our  price. 

So  when  Bates  got  over  there  he  found  that  De  Fremery  would 
be  satisfied  with  1  percent.  The  dyestuffs  people  thought  that  in 
order  to  pay  them  and  have  them  break  even  on  the  handling  of  this 
Dusiness  they  required  7^2  percent.  That  is  our  own  office.  And 
when  Bates  said  he  could  not  see  any  occasion  for  payment  of  com- 
mission hj  Taylor,  he  meant  he  could  not  see  any  reason  why  we 
should  pay  any  commission  whatsoever  to  Van  Veen.  So  this  ar- 
rangement then  went  into  effect.  The  reason  for  putting  aside  4 
percent  was  because  we  were — as  brought  out  by  Mr.  Felix  du  Pont 
a  few  moments  ago — practically  told  that  that  was  an  old  Chinese 
custom. 

The  Chairman.  The  4  percent  that  was  paid  to  the  Chinese  Army 
of  Nanking,  who  was  that  paid  to? 

^Ir.  Casey.  I  do  not  know.  I  never  did  know  until  that  other 
letter  indicating  by  name  a  couple  of  officers,  which  was  brought  out 
at  tJie  hearing  in  September. 

The  Chairman.  But  De  Fremery,  who  was  a  Dutch  officer  working 
under  contract  with  the  Chinese  Government  as  an  adviser,  also  got 
a  percentage? 

Mr.  Casey.  He  got  1  percent. 

The  Chairman.  Have  you  paid  commissions  to  other  Chinese 
officers,  army  officers? 

Mr.  Casey.  Whatever  was  paid  under  this  4  percent;  that  is  all 
I  know  of.  I  do  not  even  really  know  whether  the  payments  were 
made,  to  whom,  or  how,  but  the  money  at  least  was  set  aside  by  the 
budget. 

The  Chairman.  I  offer  "  Exhibit  No.  954  ",  which  is  an  excerpt 
from  a  letter  dated  December  27,  1929,  to  the  circulation  manager  of 
the  du  Pont  magazine  by  Mr.  O'Gorman.  That  letter  makes  refer- 
ence to  Dr.  C.  Y.  Wang. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  9.54  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  page  2599.) 

I  read : 

Dr.  C.  Y.  "Wang  is  a  chemical  engineer  in  charge  of  dyestuiTs  demonstration 
in  our  Shanghai  office,  hut  since  Dr.  Wang  is  also  engaged  in  military  sales 
work,  the  du  Pont  Magazine  would  be  of  value  to  him,  as  he  is  In  constant 
touch  with  government  officials. 

Wliat  is  this  we  are  hearing  of  more  recent  days  concerning  Dr. 
Wang's  present  predicament? 

Mr.  Casey.  Somebody  else  can  probably  tell  the  story  better  than 
I  can  on  that.    I  just  heard  the  rumor. 

The  Chairman.  Is  it  any  more  than  rumor,  this  story  that  he  has 
been  arrested  and  is  about  to  be  executed? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  could  not  tell  you.  Senator. 

Mr.  Lammot  dut  Pont.  I  had  not  heard  of  that.  Senator.  C.  Y. 
Wang  is  not  in  the  company's  employ  and  has  not  been  for  some 
time. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2499 

The  Chairman.  Since  when? 
Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  since  1932. 

The  Chairman.  Is  there  anyone  present  who  has  heard  anything 
more  than  mere  rumor  along  that  line  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  was  just  handed  this  memorandum  and  I  am  trying 
to  make  it  out.  This  is  evidently  a  message  from  the  back  of  the 
room.    It  says  here  that  he  is  going  to  be  hung. 

The  Chairman.  Is  there  anyone  here  in  connection  with  the  du 
Pont  industry,  their  attornys  or  others,  who  has  any  direct  informa- 
tion concerning  Dr.  Wang's  difficulties  i  There  has  been  a  very  per- 
sisting story,  emanating,  I  understand,  from  one  of  the  counsel  for 
the  du  Ponts,  that  that  was  tlie  case.  In  any  event,  in  light  of  the 
record  that  has  been  made,  it  would  seem  that  if  there  be  foundation 
for  the  story  that  is  being  told  it  seems  rather  unfair  that  Dr.  Wang 
should  be  one  or  the  only  one  punished  for  what  we  understand  to  be 
the  occasion  for  his  punishment. 

Is  it  a  common  occurrence,  as  you  understand,  Mr.  Casey,  in 
China,  to  pay  these  commissions  to  Chinese  officers  of  the  Army? 

]Mr.  Casey.  I  have  never  been  in  China,  so  therefore,  I  have  no 
iirst-hand  information.  But  I  recently  read  a  book,  ""  Oil  for  the 
Lamps  in  China  " — I  imagine  a  great  many  of  j^ou  men  have  read 
that  book — and  all  through  it  is  this  question  of  the  squeeze. 

The  Chairman.  This  question  of  the  what? 

Mr.  Casey.  Of  the  squeeze.  But  in  addition  to  that,  I  have 
heard  from  people  who  have  been  there  that  there  has  always  been 
a  custom  of  exchanging  presents.  In  other  words,  when  New  Year's 
comes,  or  some  otTier  ceremonial  occasion,  people  doing  business 
with  one  another  will  exchange  presents. 

Now,  this,  of  course,  is  all  hearsay.  I  understand  that  sometimes 
foreigners  going  over  there  trying  to  do  business  have  been  very 
much  embarrassed  by  having  a  very  handsome  gift  come  to  them, 
in  the  form  of  a  piece  of  Chinese  jade,  or  something  of  that  sort, 
and  they  don't  know  what  in  the  world  to  do  with  it.  If  they  try 
to  return  it,  they  have  made  a  deadly  enemy  of  the  man  who  has  been 
a  customer  of  theirs,  and  it  is  the  customer  buying  from  them  who  is 
giving  the  present  to  the  man  selling  to  him.  But  he  will  make  a 
deadly  enemy  if  he  refuses  that  gift,  so  the  man  feels  he  cannot 
refuse  the  gift. 

The  Chairman.  Is  the  man  buying  sometimes  made  the  recipient 
of  a  gift,  a  New  Year's  gift? 

Mr.  Casey.  He  is  very  apt  to  be.  Of  course,  that  is  hearsay,  as 
I  say.     I  have  never  been  in  China. 

The  Chairman.  I  offer  "  Exhibit  No.  955,"  a  letter  to  Mr.  O'Gor- 
man,  unsigned,  dated  December  29,  1930. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  955 ",  and 
appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

The  Chairman.  I  should  like,  first  of  all,  to  have  identified  the 
author  of  that  letter.     It  is  initialed  J.W.S. 

Mr.  Casey.  J.  W.  Squirrel. 

The  Chairman.  Who  is  he? 

Mr.  Casey.  He  is  an  assistant  in  LC.I.'s  office  in  New  York. 

The  Chairman.  Can  you  tell  where  the  letter  was  written  from? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  imagine  from  New  York.  There  is  nothing  here  to 
indicate,  however. 


2500  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

The  Chairman.  Oh,  yes;  it  is  indicated  up  at  the  top  here.  It 
is  written  from  19  West  Forty-fourth  Street,  New  York,  December 

29    1930. 

This  letter  would  make  it  appear,  Mr.  Casey,  that  your  British 
friends,  the  I.C.I. ,  at  least  hint  that  you  have  obtamed  business  m 
China, 'and  this  in  spite  of  price  cutting  by  the  Bofors,  with  the 
element  of  graft.     Let  us  read  the  letter,  "  Exhibit  No.  9o5     : 

In  your  letter  of  November  20  you  advised  that  you  had  secured  an  order  for 
rifle  powder  from  the  Chinese  Government  at  the  price  of  $2.10  per  kilo,  pre- 
sumablv  c.i.f.  Chinese  port,  against  Bofors'  quotation  of  $1.25  per  kilo  f.o.b. 
European  port.  You  indicated  that  you  secured  the  business  on  the  basis  of 
service  and  the  quality  of  your  product.  We,  of  course,  admit  the  possibihty 
of  this  argument  being  successful  in  some  instances  over  lower  competitive 
prices  but  the  margin  between  the  two  figures  given  is  so  wide  that  we  are 
wondering  whether  there  were  not  some  other  considerations.  For  instance,  we 
think  that  it  is  not  at  all  unusual  to  have  to  give  away  large  commissions  in 
China  in  order  to  secure  business.  ^  ^  ^   ,  ^     i         ■, 

Id  the  fdisenre  of  ordprs  from  the  British  Government,  I.C.I,  have  to  depend 
on  getting  business  from  other  sources,  in  order  to  keep  their  factory  employees 
up  to  the  mark.  They  are  not  willingly  following  the  prices  established  by 
Bofors,  but  they  do  not  see  how  they  can  get  business  by  any  other  means.  In 
your  case,  of  course,  circumstances  are  different  in  that  you  receive  large  orders 
from  the  United  States  Government. 

Senator  Pope.  Who  is  this  man  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Squirrel? 

Senator  Pope.  Yes. 

The  Chairman.  He  is  of  the  I.C.I. 

Senator  Pope.  An  agent  of  the  I.C.I.  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  No  ;  he  is  one  of  their  representatives  in  this  country. 

Senator  Pope.  In  this  country? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

The  Chairman.  Mr.  Casey,  what  is  the  deduction  to  be  drawn 
from  this  letter? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  in  the  first  place  that  SqunTel's  deduction  was 
incorrect,  to  the  extent  that  it  was  trying  to  explain  how  we  were  able 
to  sell  when  they  were  not.     I  am  referring  now  to  I.C.I. 

The  Chairman.  Yes.  ,     ,     •      <: 

Mr.  Casey.  That  statement  that  we  made  the  sale  on  the  basis  ot 
service  and  quality  was  absolutely  correct.  There  was  no  such  fig- 
ure as  this  Bofors'  quotation.  Now,  you  have  got  to  take  the  dis- 
tinction there  between  c.i.f.  and  f .o.b.,  as  referred  to  by  Senator  Clark 
the  other  day.  I  believe  that  Bofors'  price  c.i.f.  would  have  been 
25  or  30  cents  a  kilo  higher,  on  account  of  ocean  freight  and  trans- 
portation.    But  ours  represented  a  c.i.f.  price. 

The  Chairman.  Even  so,  that  would  have  left  a  difference  ot 
about  80  cents. 

Mr.  Casey.  But  that  price  that  Squirrel  refers  to  of  Botors  did 
not  exist  at  the  time  we  got  the  order.  Now,  what  we  understood 
was— and  we  afterwards  heard  it  to  be  the  fact— that  every  time 
Bofors  heard  we  had  gotten  some  business  that  they  had  not  gotten, 
they  would  go  to  some  official  and  say,  "  You  were  foolish  to  give 
them  that  business  at  that  price.  We  would  have  given  you  that 
powder  at  a  good  deal  less."  Bofors  was  not  selling  powder  at  that 
time.  Later  on.  when  the  world  became  a  little  chaotic  on  account 
of  England  going  off  the  gold  standard,  our  prices  in  dollars  re- 
mained the  same,  but  in  comparison  with  European  prices  they  were 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2501 

way  out  of  line.  At  one  time  we  understood  that  Bof  ors  were  offer- 
ing powder  in  China  at  $1,121/^  a  kilo,  but  they  could  do  that  without 
lowering  their  price,  on  account  of  the  exchange. 

The  Chairman.  Now,  what  part  of  your  price  that  you  obtained 
in  connection  with  that  order  was  for  graft  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  4  percent  referred  to,  and  that  was  all. 

The  Chairman.  In  addition  to  the  4  percent,  there  were  other  re- 
wards, were  there  not,  such  as  your  New  Year's  presents  plan  that 
you  just  suggested? 

Mr.  Casey.  Anything  tliat  came  there  was  in  that  4  percent. 

The  Chairman.  Your  director  of  sales  for  China  recognized  the 
necessity  for  gifts  at  New  Year's,  Chinese  New  Year's  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  As  I  say,  that  was  set  aside  for  gifts  or  of  whatever 
nature  that  might  be, 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Senator  Nye,  might  I  state  that  you  put  in 
the  record  or  called  it  our  New  Year's  plan.  We  made  it  very  clear 
that  that  is  a  Chinese  New  Year's  plan. 

The  Chairman.  All  right. 

I  have  before  me  a  letter  addressed  to  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  & 
Co.  by  F.  A.  M.  Noelting,  director  of  sales  for  China,  written  Aug- 
ust 22,  1929,  which  I  offer  as  "  Exhibit  No.  956." 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No,  956 "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2599.) 

The  Chairman,  I  will  read  only  a  sentence  from  it  on  page  2, 

Anyway,  presents  will  have  to  be  given  to  various  parties  at  Cbina  New  Year's 
and  the  overprice  we  get  can  be  nsed  for  this  purpose. 

Mr.  Casey,  Doesn't  that  indicate  just  what  I  said? 

The  Chairman,  You  think  that  is  covered  by  the  4  percent  ? 

Mr,  Casey,  Yes.  In  other  words,  there  was  nothing  given  in  the 
nature  of  a  New  Year's  present  in  addition  to  that  4  percent.  If 
presents  were  given,  that  was  deducted  from  the  4  percent. 

Now,  I  might  add  that  at  the  time  this  proposition  came  in,  this 
was  an  explanation  as  to  why  they  wanted  us  to  advance  the  price, 
to  take  care  of  that  4  percent.  It  was  a  question  indicated  in  this 
letter  that  this  was  for  New  Year's  presents.  It  was  not  until  later 
that  we  got  an  indication  that  there  was  an  actual  cash  transaction. 

I  might  at  that  point  just  bring  out  this :  That  the  question  as  to 
the  responsibility  of  approving  of  that  action  put  me  in  a  very  awk- 
ward spot.  This  Shanghai  office  was  the  office  of  the  dyestuff  depart- 
ment, an  entirely  different  department.  When  I  later  learned  that 
this  was  a  proposition  which  I  felt  violated  the  resolution  of  the  exec- 
utive committee  as  of  1922,  I  said  to  myself,  "Well,  now,  it  may  be 
that  an  exception  is  being  made  in  the  case  of  China."  Yet  that  did 
not  relieve  me  of  the  responsibility  for  reporting  it.  But  I  felt  that 
I  would  be  presumptuous  to  be  reporting  an  incident  relating  to  the 
action  of  some  other  department.  But  there  was  this  phase,  perhaixs, 
that  likewise  helped  govern :  That  I  knew  if  I  ever  did  bring  it  to  the 
attention  of  the  executive  committee  they  would  say,  "  No  more ;  that 
is  contrary  to  our  policy."  Therefore,  I  was  anxious  to  make  the 
sale,  and  figuring,  as  I  said  before,  that  it  was  an  old  Chinese  custom 
and  the  fact  it  was  another  department,  I  did  not  mention  it.  But  I 
am  really  responsible  for  at  least  particij^ating  in  the  violation  of  a 
company  policy,  because  I  knew  the  executive  committee  would  have 
said  flat-footeclly,  "  No  more  business  on  that  line." 


2502  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Senator  Pope.  Did  you  take  it  up  with  any  other  department? 

Mr.  Casey.  No. 

Mr.  Eaushenbush.  When  the  executive  committee  found  out  about 
this,  was  there  another  resolution  on  the  Chinese  business  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  When  the  executive  committee  found  out  about  this, 
we  were  doing  no  business  with  China,  on  account  of  the  exchange. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  But  you  sold  $800,000  worth,  according  to  Mr. 
Bradway,  in  the  last  2  years. 

Mr.  Bradway.  I  didn't  say  that. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  will  correct  that.     Since  the  embargo. 

Mr.  Bradway.  In  1931, 1  think,  was  our  last  sale  to  China. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  How  much  has  it  been  since  1929  ? 

Mr.  Bradway.  About  $800,000. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  is  what  I  was  saying. 

Mr.  Bradway.  Yes ;  but  we  haven't  sold  anything  to  them  for  21/2 
years. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  But  since  1929  it  has  been  $800,000  worth  of 
business. 

Mr.  Bradway.  Yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  You  did  not  answer  my  question.  Major. 
After  the  company  found  about  this  China  business  was  there  another 
executive  committee  resolution  on  the  question  of  not  paying  such 
commissions  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  believe  the  executive  committee  ever  learned 
of  it  until  this  year. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  When  they  learned  of  it  this  year  was  there 
another  resolution  passed? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  don't  think  it  was  necessary,  but  it  was  an  error  on 
my  part.  Whether  it  was  a  justified  error  or  not  is  beside  the  point. 
I  am  the  fellow  who  made  the  bull. 

The  Chairman.  Mr.  Felix  du  Pont,  in  1930  did  you  win  a  contract 
for  the  sale  of  30  tons  of  TNT  in  China? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont,  I  do  not  know.    Do  you  know,  Major? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  have  not  got  the  materials  here. 

The  Chairman.  Mr.  Casey? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  don't  know. 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  have  not  got  the  detail. 

The  Chairman.  Do  you  have  any  knowledge  of  that,  Mr.  Brad- 
way? 

Mr.  Bradway.  No;  I  do  not  have  the  details.  The  $800,000  re- 
ferred to  included  TNT,  I  might  add. 

Mr.  Raushenbush,  Yes. 

Mr,  Bradway.  It  was  not  all  smokeless  powder. 

The  Chairman.  On  various  occasions,  several  occasions,  at  least, 
in  cases  of  contracts  with  China  for  military  material,  these  contracts 
had  to  be  put  through  with  the  assistance  of  graft  or  bribes,  or  what- 
ever you  are  going  to  call  it  here. 

Mr.  Casey.  So  we  were  assured. 

methods   of   doing   business ARGENTINA 

The  Chairman.  Mr,  Felix  du  Pont,  was  the  Argentine  Govern- 
ment a  pretty  good  customer  of  the  du  Ponts  for  powder? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Poxt.  1  would  not  call  it  a  pretty  good  customer. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2503 

The  Chairman.  As  foreign  sales  go,  were  they  considered  a  good 
customer  ? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  No.  Covered  over  the  years,  taking  the 
average  per  year,  it  was  small.  We  would  not  consider  the  Argen- 
tine a  good  customer. 

The  Chairman.  Have  you  considered  it  a  good  prospect? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  No.  We  did  at  the  time  some  years  ago, 
but  we  were  disappointed,  I  think. 

The  Chairman.  Do  you  recall  who,  in  1920  and  1921,  was  your 
representative  selling  powder  in  the  Argentine? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  When? 

The  Chairman.  1920  and  1921. 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  No. 

The  Chairman.  Would  mention  of  the  name  Adolph  Lissner  mean 
anything  ? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Yes. 

The  Chairman.  He  was  your  representative  there? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Casey.  He  was  our  salesman. 

The  Chairman.  He  was  your  salesman  ? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Yes;  he  was  our  salesman.  He  was  work- 
ing under  a  salesman. 

The  Chairman.  No  commission? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  No  commission. 

The  Chairman^  Outright  salary? 

Mr.  A.  P^ELix  du  Pont.  Yes. 

The  Chairman.  He  was  a  regular  employee,  then,  of  your  mili- 
tary-service division  ? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Yes. 

The  Chairman.  Who  picked  Mr.  Lissner? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Colonel  Buckner,  during  the  war. 

The  Chairman.  Who  was  Colonel  Buckner. 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Colonel  Buckner  was  the  director  of  mili- 
tary sales  during  the  war.  I  think  he  had  Mr.  Lissner  before  the 
war  began — before  the  European  war  began. 

Mr.  Casey.  As  an  interpreter. 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Yes ;  he  had  him  as  an  interpreter. 

The  Chairman.  Are  you  familiar  with  his  methods? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  No  ;  I  don't  think  anybody  is. 

The  Chairman.  He  is  no  longer  in  your  employ? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  No;  he  died.  But  he  was  discharged 
from  the  du  Pont  Co.  before  that. 

The  Chairman.  When  did  that  discharge  come? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  do  not  remember  the  exact  year.  It  was 
about  1921,  1920,  or  1921, 1  believe. 

The  Chairman.  Did  it  arise  out  of  complaints  that  were  made 
concerning  his  methods  in  the  Argentine  ? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Yes. 

The  Chairman.  I  have  before  me  a  letter  written  by  Mr.  O'Gor- 
man  concerning  a  trip  he  had  made  to  Washington,  which  is  offered 
as  "  Exhibit  No.  957." 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  957 ""  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2601.) 

83876— SS— FT  11 8 


2504  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

The  Chairman.  On  this  memorandum  we  find  Mr.  O'Gorman 
notes  [reading]  : 

Called  at  the  Department  of  Commerce  regarding  their  letter  of  December  9 
concerning  our  negotiations  in  Argentine.  Saw  I\Ir.  P.  S.  Smith  and  Mr.  J.  P. 
Bushnell.  Mr.  Bushuell  is  a  former  employee  of  the  du  Pont  Export  Co.,  who 
was  a  traveling  salesman  in  IMexico  and  South  America  for  the  Export  Co., 
Mr.  Bushuell  stated  that  he  knew  Mr.  Lissner  and  therefore  was  interested 
in  doing  all  he  could  for  us. 

Wlien  did  Mr.  Bushnell  cease  his  connection  with  the  du  Pont  Co.  ? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  have  not  the  slightest  idea. 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  It  is  a  very  long  time  ago. 

The  Chairman.  Do  you  know  whether  he  is  still  in  the  Commerce 
Department? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know. 

The  Chairman.  This  memorandum,  of  course,  is  dated  December 
17,  1921. 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Yes. 

The  Chairman.  You  have  no  knowledge  of  Mr.  Bushnell's  pres- 
ent connections,  have  you. 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  No. 

The  Chairman.  Pie  declares  in  his  memorandum  concerning  being 
told  of  the  methods  which  Lissner  was  employing  down  there  in  the 
Argentine,  and  then  he  reports  as  best  he  can  from  his  memory,  after 
reading  a  confidential  and  personal  letter  which  was  in  the  files  of 
the  Commerce  Department.  The  letter  in  particular  seems  to  have 
been  dated  October  27,  1921.  Then  reporting  from  his  memory  he 
says  of  this  correspondence  [reading]  : 

The  du  Pont  Co.  has  in  Buenos  Aires  a  German  Jew  named  A.  Lissner,  who 
is  negotiating  with  the  Argentine  Government  for  the  sale  of  a  quantity  of 
powder  which  the  du  Pout  Co.  has  on  hand,  due  to  the  cancelation  of  a  con- 
tract with  the  Italian  Government.  In  a  conversation  with  the  Chief  of  Ord- 
nance he  told  me  confidentially  that  Lissner  was  endeavoring  to  bribe  Argentine 
officials  by  indiscriminately  distributing  funds  through  a  middleman.  The  Chief 
of  Ordnance,  together  with  other  Argentine  officials,  strongly  resents  Lissner's 
business  methods,  contending  that  Lissner  came  to  Argentina  with  the  idea  that 
the  Government  officials  were  corrupt  and  that  he  could  only  obtain  a  contract 
by  paying  bribes. 

Was  it  this  general  complaint  that  led  to  Mr.  Lissner's  discharge? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  We  had  the  general  complaint,  and  we  were 
forced  to  the  conclusion  that  Lissner  was  not  acting — or  his  methods 
were  not — according  to  du  Pont  Co.'s  methods,  and  it  seemed  to 
show  up  most  particularly  in  his  traveling-expense  accounts. 

Senator  Clark.  How  long  did  Lissner  work  for  you,  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  He  started  in,  I  think,  somewhere  around 
1907.  or  1908,  and  he  was  an  interpreter,  used  to  go  around  with  mis- 
sions, government  missions  from  the  various  countries,  when  they 
could  not  speak  English.  He  R])oke  a  number  of  languages.  He  had 
a  way  of  ingratiating  himself  with  those  people,  who  made  us  have 
an  idea  that  he  was  quite  valuable  as  an  interpreter. 

The  Chairman.  I  read  further  from  Mr.  O'Gorman's  memoran- 
dum, the  bottom  paragraph  on  ]iage  2 : 

Both  Mr.  Smith  and  Mr.  Bushnell  felt  that  a  great  deal  of  the  above  report 
could  be  discounted,  stating  that  Mr.  White  was  a  very  high  type  of  man. 
conscientious     and     painstiiking.      The     nioial     conclusion     which     Mi-.    White 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY  2505 

attempted  to  draw  attention  to  in  his  report,  of  course,  is  a  high  thought, 
but  Mr.  Smith  stated  that  he  spent  8  months  last  year  in  Buenos  Aires  and 
knew  for  a  fact  that  the  officials  were  corrupt  and  endeavored  to  obtain  graft 
whenever  possible.  He  ventured  to  sa.v  that  it  was  quite  possible  that  the 
Chief  of  Ordnance  was  incensed  becaiise  Lissner  had  not  conducted  the  business 
directly  through  him  and,  further,  that  it  miglit  be  likely  that  he  objected  to 
Lissner's  methods  because  he  was  not  getting  part  of  the  graft. 

That  is  a  general  charge  as  relates  to  the  situation  in  the  Argentine, 
is  it  not? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  It  is  very  general;  yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Mr.  Chairman,  may  I  point  out  that  the  ad- 
ministration referred  to  in  this  letter  back  in  1921  is  not  the  admin- 
istration in  power  in  the  Argentine  in  these  days,  and  the  reflection 
on  the  officials  at  that  time  would  certainly  not  apply  to  the  officials 
iodny. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Mr.  Chairman,  I  should  also  point  out  that 
this  was  not  a  matter  that  was  covered  by  our  own  observations. 
This  report  is  not  a  du  Pont  Co,  report. 

The  Chairman.  No  ;  that  is  correct. 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  should  like  to  point  ont,  too,  Mr.  Sena- 
tor, that  in  this  case,  the  case  of  Lissner,  he  Avas  not  successful  in 
negotiating  the  sale  of  a  pound  of  powder  in  the  Argentine. 

The  Chairman.  This  being  called  to  your  attention  is  through  the 
avenues  of  the  Commerce  Department  of  the  United  States  Govern- 
ment. Mr.  Smith,  one  of  the  spokesmen  of  the  Commerce  Depart- 
ment, Mr.  O'Gorman  reports,  stated  that — 

as  far  as  the  Department  of  Commerce  was  concerned,  they  merely  felt  it  was 
their  duty  to  report  to  us  the  fact  that  our  representative  had  not  been  discreet 
in  conducting  negotiations.  He  stated  that  they  knov,-  perfectly  well  that  the 
du  Pont  Co.  would  not  permit  a  representative  to  negotiate  along  the  lines 
described  by  the  Charge  d'Affaires,  and  whether  his  report  be  true  or  not,  it 
was  Mr.  Smith's  belief  that  Mr.  Lissner  must  have  been  very  indiscreet. 

You  had  knowledge  of  this  from  other  sources  as  well,  did  you 
not? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  there  was  one  other  source  of  information  that 
Mr.  O'Gorman  developed  along  the  same  general  line. 

The  Chairman.  Mr.  O'Gorman,  it  aj^pears,  had  a  friend  who  had 
connections  in  the  Argentine. 

Mr.  Casey.  There  was  something  of  that  sort. 

The  Chairman.  He  was  visiting  back  here  and  went  and  called  on 
Mr.  O'Gorman  and  reported  to  him  in  a  way  that  caused  Mr.  O'Gor- 
man to  prepare  a  memorandum  for  Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont,  which  is 
introduced  as  "  Exhibit  No.  9o8." 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  Mas  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  958  " 
and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2602.) 

The  Chairman.  I  read  only  two  paragraphs  from  that  letter,  the 
tiiird  paragraph  first : 

During  Mr.  Lissnors  fit'st  trip  to  Avgontino  in  lit20,  Mv.  Valentine — 

He  was  the  one  who  was  bringing  this  report  on  his  Ansit,  from  the 
Argentine — 

became  acquainted  with  ]\Ir.  Lissner  by  meeting  him  at  tlie  American  Club. 
Mr.  Lissner  openly  announced  that  he  was  down  there  to  sell  Argentine  a  quan- 
tity of  Italian  powder  Avliieh  he  pevs»nally  repurciint^ed  from  t'lo  Italian  Gov- 
ernment at  1  cent  a  pound  and  which  we  intended  to  resell  to  the  Argentine 
Government  at  a  price  of  70  cents  per  pound.     This  fact  was  made  public  by 


2506  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

people  who  heard  it  and  naturally,  before  very  long  the  officials  of  the  Gov- 
ernment knew  the  exact  cost  of  this  repui'chased  powder  and  fought  shy  of 
buying  it.  In  Mr.  Valentine's  opinion  this  is  the  real  reason  why  the  Argen- 
tine Goverenment  did  not  contract  with  us  for  a  quantity  of  Italian  purchased 
powder. 

What  was  your  outlay  on  this  Italian  powder,  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  do  not  remember  what  the  outlay  was. 

Mr.  Casey.  At  the  close  of  the  war  there  still  remained  at  Carneys 
Point  a  quantity  of  powder  which  belonged  to  the  Italian  Govern- 
ment. 

Senator  Clakk.  That  powder  had  been  manufactured  for  the 
Italian  Govermnent  during  the  war? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes.  And  they  came  to  this  conclusion :  If  you  gen- 
tlemen will  remember,  immediately  after  the  war,  food  was  the  all- 
important  thing  to  send  abroad.  They  stopped  all  shipments  of 
munitions  and  used  all  of  the  tonnage  for  food.  Now,  here  was  this 
quantity  of  powder.  The  Italians  figured  that  it  might  be  several 
years  before  they  would  be  allowed  to  ship  that  poAvder.  They  said 
if  we  would  take  it  off  of  their  hands,  at  any  price,  where  it  was,  they 
would  be  very  glad  to  let  go  of  it. 

Now,  the  interesting  point  about  that  powder  was  that  it  was  a 
powder  of  an  unusual  character  in  this  respect :  All  powder  made 
for  the  Italian  Government  had  to  be  made  to  a  constant  weight 
of  charge,  the  reason  for  that  being  apparently  that  their  loading 
machines  were  of  such  a  type  that  they  could  not  adjust  them  to  fit 
the  change  in  weight  of  charge  which  might  occur  in  normal  prac- 
tice.    You  can  understand  that,  I  believe,  Senator. 

Senator  Clark.  Yes. 

Mr.  Casey.  So  we  had  a  blend — a  cross  blend.  It  happened  to  be 
that  this  particular  powder  was  ideally  suited  to  the  Argentine — the 
rifle  powder  I  am  speaking  of  now — was  ideally  suited  to  the  Argen- 
tine 7.65  Mauser  rifle.  In  1918,  Avhile  we  were  still  in  the  war,  a 
Colonel  Reyborn,  attached  to  the  Italian  Embassy,  came  in  to  see 
Colonel  Buckner  one  hot  afternoon,  I  think,  in  August  or  September, 
about  purchasing  from  us,  when  the  war  was  over,  a  plant  at  a  very 
cheap  price,  and  he  then  explained  to  us  what  Argentine  needed. 
Colonel  Buckner's  answer  was : 

Well,  when  the  war  is  over  is  time  to  talk.  At  the  present  time  we  only 
think  of  one  thing,  and  that  is  helping  the  United  States  to  win  the  war. 

Wlien  the  armistice  occurred  and  things  were  clearing  up  there  was 
a  certain  amount  of  contact  between  ourselves  and  the  Argentine 
naval  mission  in  this  countr3\ 

I  might  say,  to  disgress  for  a  moment,  that  the  Argentine  plant 
proposition  started  in  1918  and  has  never  been  closed  since.  I  mean 
there  has  never  anything  happened  since. 

At  any  rate,  in  this  connection,  here  we  had  this  powder  and  we 
thought  that  if  the  situation  was  as  described  by  Colonel  Reyborn, 
with  the  further  realization  that  Argentine  had  bought  practically 
all  of  its  powder  for  the  Army,  at  Teast,  from  Germany,  and  Ger- 
many as  a  source  of  supply  was  cut  off,  there  was  a  possibility  that 
this  proposition  might  justify  to  our  going  to  a  considerable  expense 
in  traveling  funds  to  try  to  sell  Argentine  some  of  this  powder. 
The  possibility  was  before  we  got  through  witli  the  sale  of  that 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2507 

powder,  where  it  cost  us  a  cent  a  pound  at  the  time  we  made  the 
purchase,  you  add  all  of  the  traveling  expenses  of  a  trip  to  South 
America  and  stayino;  there  for  a  month  and  coming  back  again  and, 
as  it  was,  trip  after  trip,  I  think  if  today  we  had  any  of  that  powder 
left  and  sold  it,  it  would  be  sold  at  a  loss. 

But  this  letter,  I  think,  or  this  report,  indicates  pretty  well  that  if 
a  man  down  there,  not  realizing  that  the  powder  he  sold  to  the 
Argentine  Government  would  probably  in  the  end  at  that  time  have 
made  us  a  very  small  profit,  when  he  starts  in  blurting  out  things 
of  this  sort,  it  was  self-evident  at  the  time  that  he  was  not  the  type 
of  man  to  represent  any  company. 

Senator  Clark.  Naturally,  if  he  shot  off  his  moutli  to  that  effect 
it  would  not  help  the  sale  very  much. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  might  give  you  a  reason  as  to  why  Lissner  was 
picked.  As  we  stated  before,  Colonel  Buckner  took  him  in  as  an 
interpreter,  because  he  knew  suiiicient  Spanish,  and  perhaps  a  smat- 
tering of  Portuguese — I  do  not  know — but  at  least  he  was  able  to 
converse  with  the  different  foreign  representatives  who  came  over 
with  these  missions  during  the  war.  After  the  war  he  was  promptly 
transferred  to  the  export  company,  which  was  started  for  com- 
mercial sales  and  in  which  military  did  not  form  a  part,  because 
they  felt  he  might  be  of  value  to  them  in  the  export  company.  But 
when  this  purchase  of  powder  was  made  from  the  Italians,  the  sug- 
gestion was  made,  Avho  would  be  any  better  fitted,  in  view  of  his 
dealings  with  different  foreign  missions,  than  Lissner  to  effect  the 
sale,  so  that  we  started  Lissner  down  there.  After  about  a  year  or 
probably  less,  he  came  back  with  what  was  termed  an  ad  referendum 
contract.  The  contract  meant  that  here  was  a  contract  signed  but 
of  no  value  until  it  had  been  approved  by  the  Argentine  Congress. 
There  was  a  further  clause  in  there  that  we  had  to  sign  the  contract, 
and  in  signing  the  contract  we  were  then  agreeing  to  the  specifica- 
tions code.  In  other  words,  we  were  to  agree  to  the  words  in  those 
specifications.  We  could  not  get  a  copy  of  the  specifications,  so 
that  they  wanted  us  to  agree  on  this  proposition.  Now,  the  fact 
rernaineci  that  the  contract  was  not  really  Avorth  the  paper  it  was 
written  on,  unless  ratified  by  the  Argentine  Congress,  so  that  as  a 
result  of  that  it  was  felt  that  he  came  back  too  soon,  and  that  if  he 
really  had  a  contract,  before  he  brought  the  contract  to  us  he  then 
had  to  have  the  book  of  conditions,  which  we  could  then  go  through 
and  see  if  we  were  prepared  to  meet  them,  and,  lastly,  the  thing 
should  have  been  ratified  by  the  Argentine  Congress.  So  that  he 
was  home  for  a  short  time  and  was  sent  back,  I  think,  probably  the 
middle  of  1921,  when  he  was  sent  back,  and  then  it  was  after"  that 
time  that  we  began  to  get  these  different  reports  which  indicated 
there  was  something  wrong. 

We  sensed  it,  but  were  not  sure.  I  mean,  we  felt  that  there  must 
be  something.  When  he  came  back,  ]\Ir.  Felix  du  Pont — in  the 
meantime  the  company  having  gone  through  a  reorganization  from 
the  functional  system  to  the  subjective  system,  where  the  different 
departments  were  then  set  up — and  one  of  the  first  things  Mr.  Felix 
du  Pont  said  to  me,  as  soon  as  he  took  charge  of  both  sales  and 
operations,  was,  "  Casey,  I  think  the  best  thing  we  can  do  is  to  get 
rid  of  Lissner."     That  was  even  before  we  had  these  reports. 


2508  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

He  said,  "  There  is  something  I  do  not  like."  When  we  got  the 
reports,  the  reason  was  obvious,  and  when  he  came  back  he  was 
dismissed. 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  I  might  say  that  this  was  the  only  sales 
mission  Lissner  was  ever  put  on,  and  the  reasons  speak  for  them- 
selves. 

The  Chairman.  To  use  ordinary  language,  he  Avas  "  just  too 
raw  ",  was  he  not  'i 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  might  add  that  we  sent  a  man  down  there  who  was 
no  salesman  for  the  sole  purpose  of  trying  to  correct  the  bad  im- 
pression which  we  felt  must  have  been  left  behind. 

The  Chairman.  Mr.  O'Gorman  made  a  note  in  his  memorandum 
to  the  effect  that  Lissner  resorted  to  open  bribery  methods  to  such 
an  extent  that  the  officials  of  the  Government  were  afraid  to  deal 
with  him  and  considered  him  irresponsible.  In  the  sale  of  this 
powder  in  the  post-war  days  there  was  a  great  deal  of  pressure,  was 
there  not,  to  accomplish  sales  of  left-over  supplies? 

Mr.  Casey.  No.  This  was  our  first  attempt,  and  that  was  fol- 
lowed by  another  one  with  Poland. 

The  Chairman,  We  have  already  dealt  with  that  one,  have  "\ve 
not? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  was  newly  made  powder,  but  I  am  talking  about 
an  earlier  sale  which  started  in  this  countr3\  The  negotiations 
stretched  over  3  or  4  years,  but  that  was  a  case  where  they  knew 
they  were  buying  a  different  type  of  powder.  As  I  say,  this  Italian 
stuff  was  used  for  an  entirely  different  purpose  than  that  for  Poland. 
The  stuff  which  Ave  had  from  the  Italians  would  not  have  fitted 
the  Polish  guns. 

The  Chairman.  What  constitutes  your  fields  for  foreign  opera- 
tions ? 

Mr.  Casey.  At  the  present  time  ? 

The  Chairman.  Since  the  war,  let  us  say. 

Mr.  Casey.  At  one  time  we  thought  we  had  a  pretty  good  field. 
I  think,  as  stated  in  the  memorandum  which  I  Avrote  to  Mr.  Felix 
du  Pont,  Avhich  we  offered  the  other  day,  that  we  felt,  with  the 
reputation  du  Pont  powder  had  made  during  the  war,  we  had  a 
wonderful  opportunity,  especially  due  to  the  fact  that  Germany, 
who  supplied  all  continental  Europe  with  the  possible  exception 
of  France,  was  not  then  a  potential  seller,  and  at  this  time  we  found 
that  our  original  idea  of  a  Avonderful  market  Avas  all  Avrong. 

The  Chairman.  Now  your  foreign  market,  strictly  speaking,  is 
confined  to  the  Balkans,  the  Far  East,  and  South  America,  is  it  not? 

Mr.  Casey.  We  never  had  a  market  in  the  Balkans. 

The  Chairman.  You  have  sold  some  little  orders  there,  have  you 
not? 

Mr.  Casey.  A  little  in  Greece.  We  had  sold  Greece  before  that. 
We  sold  Greece  a  small  quantity  in  1915,  I  think. 

The  Chairman.  Outside  of  these  three  classifications,  do  you  have 
any  foreign  market  at  all? 

Mr.  Casey.  The  European  market  at  the  present  time,  I  would 
say,  is  practically  limited,  so  far  as  we  are  concerned,  anyway. 

Mr.  Raushenbusii.  Colonel  Taylor  keeps  reporting  on  everj^  sin- 
gle country  in  Europe. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2509 

Mr.  Casey.  He  is  supposed  to. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  And  he  sells  for  I.C.I,  as  well  as  3- ou  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes.     He  tries  to  sell,  you  mean. 

I  might  say  the  section  around  the  North  Sea  really  has  been  the 
only  chance  of  doing  much  business;  that  is,  Poland,  Latvia,  Fin- 
land, and  those  countries. 

The  Chairman.  Now,  as  respects  the  Balkans,  the  Far  East,  and 
South  America,  in  all  of  them  there  seems  to  be  an  anticipation 
that  bribery,  graft,  of  some  kind  and  size  is  necessary. 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator,  we  have  heard  that  such  things  are  necessary 
in  all  business  in  South  America,  but  that  is  a  rumor,  but  we  have 
never  had  the  slightest  indication,  so  far  as  Poland,  Latvia,  Finland, 
and  those  countries  are  concerned,  that  any  bribery  is  even  con- 
sidered. 

Of  course,  there  is  this  thing  about  those  countries,  that  is  prob- 
ably why  they  offered  us  the  best  market :  They  were  new  countries, 
set  up,  and  with  nothing  to  start  from. 

The  Chairman.  In  any  event,  confining  it  to  those  three  classifi- 
cations, you  do  have  a  situation  there  that  at  least  is  very  different 
from  the  one  which  you  deal  with,  or  which  any  business  firm  deals 
with,  in  dealing  here  at  home? 

Mr.  Casey.  The  question  is  reallj^  one  of  national  viewpoint. 

The  Chairman.  That  is  it. 

Mr.  Casey.  You  could  take  this  situation  in  France:  Owing  to 
certain  laws  that  were  put  into  effect  in  the  seventies,  I  believe,  an 
employee  of  a  company  cannot  be  discharged  except  on  6  years' 
notice,  and  during  the  6  years  he  had  to  be  paid  his  salary,  the  result 
being  that  wherever  they  can  they  give  their  people  nominal  salaries 
and  then  in  addition  to  that  other  compensation.  Now,  in  the  case 
of  their  purchasing  agents — I  am  talking  now  of  commercial  busi- 
ness— now,  in  the  case  of  their  purchasing  agents,  we  know  of  one 
case  of  a  man  representing  a  very  large  concern,  who  gets  about  1,000 
francs  a  month,  or  did  at  the  period  I  am  talking  about,  or  approxi- 
mately $40  a  month.  If  you  can  imagine  a  high-class  purchasing 
agent  working  for  $40  a  month,  he  must  get  some  money  some  other 
place.  Here  is  the  way  he  gets  it :  A  sale  was  made  to  this  concern 
and,  after  the  sale  was  finished,  he  said,  "Where  is  my  4  percent?  " 
So  that  our  representative  promptly  went  to  the  head  of  the  firm 
and  reported  the  incident. 

He  said,  "That  is  all  right;  that  is  what  he  gets,  4  percent." 

Then  it  was  explained  to  him  why  he  got  it,  and  the  simplification 
of  the  principle  was  this :  that  in  case  his  services  were  discontinued, 
why,  they  had  to  pay  him  this  1,000  francs  a  month,  or  $40,  for  that 
6  years,  and  that  when  times  were  good  and  purchases  increased, 
his  compensation  automatically  increased  with  it.  When  their  pur- 
chases were  cut  off,  because  times  were  getting  bad,  the  thing  took 
care  of  itself. 

There  was  another  case — this  time,  I  might  say,  not  knowing  this, 
we  lost  the  4  percent,  because  it  was  not  provided  for  in  the  price — 
in  another  case,  shortly  after  that,  our  representative  thought, "  Here, 
when  I  make  the  price,  I  better  allow  for  5  percent  ",  so  that  he  made 
an  allowance  of  5  percent  to  take  care  of  the  purchasing  represen- 
tative of  the  company  being  sold  to.     When  the  transaction  was 


2510  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

completed,  he  went  to  this  man  and  said,  "  Here  is  your  5  percent." 
He  said,  "  No,  I  only  get  3i/^  percent.  That  is  the  arrangement  I 
have  with  my  employers." 

He  said,  "  We  have  set  aside  5  percent  on  the  price." 

"  Return  the  balance  to  the  company.  I  get  3i^  percent.  That 
is  my  arrangement." 

You  cannot  call  that  graft.  That  is  a  business  arrangement  and 
their  method  of  doing  it. 

The  Chairman.  What  would  you  call  it  here? 

Mr.  Casey.  We  pay  our  purchasing  agents. 

The  Chairman.  But  what  would  we  call  it  here,  if  they  did  the 
same  thing? 

Mr.  Casey.  If  we  had  a  law  to  meet  of  the  same  sort,  the  chances 
are  we  would  do  the  same  thing. 

The  Chairman.  You  mean  to  say  that  is  permissible  under  the 
law  over  there? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Senator,  your  statement  that  our  repre- 
sentatives find  this  graft  situation  to  exist  in  Europe,  the  Far  East, 
and  South  America  is  not  correct. 

The  Chairman.  I  said  the  Balkans,  the  Far  East,  and  South 
America. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  We  did  not  find  it  to  exist  there.  It  was 
reported  to  us  that  it  existed,  but  there  was  some  question  as  to  the 
validity  of  the  reports.  As  Major  Casey  has  testified,  in  the  Far 
East  he  made  a  blunder  in  certain  cases,  and  he  referred  to  that  as 
a  blunder.  I  am  not  sure  that  is  the  word  he  used,  but  that  is  what 
he  intimated.    Such  a  thing  was  not  found  elsewhere. 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator,  we  promptly,  without  waiting  for  the  action 
of  the  executive  committee,  instructed  Taylor  with  regard  to  the 
Balkan  situation,  that  we  will  have  to  try  to  do  business  in  our 
regular  way,  on  a  cash  basis.  We  would  not  attempt  to  set  up  any 
machinery  for  credit  or  payment  of  graft  of  any  sort,  the  result 
being,  with  the  exception  of  Greece,  which  has  been  done  on  a  regu- 
lar basis  through  our  agent  there,  whose  name  is  Sapyras,  we  have 
not  done  any  business.  We  have  had  one  or  two  nibbles  in  Turkey, 
but  have  generally  lost  out  in  the  adjudication. 

The  Chairman.  Where  you  found  these  practices  to  exist,  it  is 
nevertheless  true  that  even  a  concern  who  tries  to  be  as  high-class 
and  high-type  as  yours  does  was  in  a  position  where  you  would  have 
to  follow  along  certain  lines  to  get  business,  would  you  not? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  No. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  That  is  incorrect. 

Mr.  Casey.  The  case  of  China  is  the  one  exception,  and  that,  as 
I  said  before,  is  my  error  for  not  reporting. 

The  Chairman.  Is  that  business  worth  having? 

Mr.  Casey.  The  small  amount  of  business  which  we  have  been 
getting  made  me  feel  personally  at  the  time  that  I  should  sacrifice 
it,  especially  in  view  of  the  fact  that  I  would  be  put  in  position  of 
reporting  on  or  telling  tales  on  another  department.  I  was  in  an 
awkward  spot,  which  does  not  let  me  out,  however. 

The  Chairman.  In  spite  of  the  fact  that  these  foreign  sales  are 
undertaken  on  the  ground  that  we  have  got  to  have  them  in  order  to 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2513 

maintain  a  capacity  here  at  home  to  take  care  of  our  own  needs, 
when  and  if  we  are  drawn  into  war,  then  we  have  pretty  nearly  got 
to  conclude  that  these  practices,  and  our  subscribing  to  them,  are  in 
the  interest  of  our  own  national  defense. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  That  is  not  a  fair  inference  at  all. 

The  Chairman.  Is  it  not  a  fair  inference? 

Mr,  Lammot  du  Pont.  No  ;  I  think  not. 

The  Chairman.  Why  is  it  not  a  fair  inference  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  The  fact  that  foreign  business  is  felt  to  be 
necessary  in  order  to  support  our  proper  national  defense  does  not 
mean  that  any  improper  methods  shall  be  used  in  getting  that  busi- 
ness, and  we  have  never  felt  that  it  was  necessary  to  use  improper 
methods  to  get  business. 

The  Chairman.  You  would  not  say  that  that  Chinese  process  was 
a  proper  method,  would  you? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  That  was  a  blunder,  as  Mr.  Casey  said. 

Senator,  your  men  have  been  spending  weeks  going  through  our 
files,  and  they  have  not  turned  up  a  single  case  except  this  Chinese 
one  you  mentioned. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  Argentine  powder  factory. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  There  was  no  commission  paid  there  to  any 
representative  of  the  Government. 

The  Chairman.  In  the  Argentine  powder  factory  matter  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  The  evidence  did  not  show  that. 

The  Chairman.  The  evidence  showed  that  it  came  awfully  close 
to  officials  of  the  Argentine  Government. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  think  there  was  anj'^  closeness  indi- 
cated. 

The  Chairman.  Did  it  not  reach  the  family,  at  least? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  That  might  have  been.    I  do  not  know. 

The  Chairman.  Reach  the  family  of  an  official  of  the  Govern- 
ment? 

Now,  Senator  Barbour,  I  am  finished.  Do  you  want  to  start  now 
or  take  a  recess  at  this  time  and  get  a  fresh  start? 

Senator  Barbour.  That  is  entirely  up  to  you,  Mr.  Chairman.  We 
have  been  recessing,  as  a  rule,  around  noon.  I  could  not  start  very 
well. 

The  Chairman.  I  would  not  want  you  to  start  and  then  have  to 
stop  at  an  inappropriate  place. 

Senator  Barbour.  I  suggest  that  we  recess  until  2  o'clock. 

The  Chairman.  The  committee,  then,  will  stand  in  recess  until 
2  o'clock. 

(Thereupon,  at  12: 15  p.m.,  a  recess  was  taken  until  2  p.m.  of  the 
same  day.)  \ 

Afternoon  Session 

methods  of  doing  business MEXICO 

(The  hearing  was  resumed  at  2  p.m.) 

The  Chairman.  The  committee  will  be  in  order. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Mr.  Chairman,  before  you  start  on  a  new 
line  of  inquiry,  may  I  say  something  about  this  morning's  testimony? 

I  read  into  the  record  a  resolution  of  our  executive  committee  of 
November  15,  1922.    I  thought  at  the  time  it  was  being  entered  as 


2512  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

an  exhibit.  I  believe  that  was  not  so,  and  I  would  like  to  ask  that 
it  be  entered  as  an  exhibit.  This  is  a  copy  of  it  [handing  document 
to  the  chairman]. 

The  Chairman.  You  read  it  in  its  entirety,  did  you  not? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir.  May  I  have  it  entered  as  an 
exhibit  also? 

The  Chairman.  What  is  the  purpose  ?  The  reason  I  ask,  Mr.  du 
Pont,  is  that  it  would  only  be  repetition.  You  read  it  in  its  entirety. 
Did  you  want  it  given  a  designation  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes. 

The  Chairman.  As  an  exhibit? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes. 

The  Chairman.  Then  the  reporter  can  give  it  a  number  and  let 
it  be  noted  in  connection  with  the  testimony  this  morning  that  it  is 
offered  as  "  Exhibit  No.  959." 

(The  resolution  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  959  ",  and 
appears  in  full  in  the  text  on  p.  2485.) 

The  Chairman.  Senator  Barbour. 

Senator  Barbour.  Mr.  Monaghan,  I  will  not  attempt  to  make  any 
preliminary  observations  in  relation  to  these  exhibits  which  I  have 
been  asked  to  study,  because  of  what  you  have  said  at  the  beginning 
of  your  remarks  this  morning.    It  covers  the  same  story. 

What  I  have  in  mind  for  the  committee  this  afternoon  refers  back 
to  other  companies  here  in  the  United  States  and  other  countries. 
To  make  beginning  at  once,  I  have  here  a  letter  dated  September  1, 
1930,  from  Heedles  &  Breidsprecher,  Remington  agents  in  Mexico. 
They  speak  of  a  large  amount  of  contrabrand  ammunition.  I  will 
just  read  this  one  paragraph: 

With  reference  to  tlie  metallic  business  we  found  a  vex'y  peculiar  situation 
in  Guadalajara.  The  writer  saw  more  contrabands  in  this  section  of  the  coun- 
try than  anywhere  else,  there  is  a  fellow  mth  name  of  Godinez  installed  right 
in  the  market  place,  he  has  no  permit  to  seU  nor  has  he  permit  to  import  and 
yet  he  must  have  at  least  100,000  metallics  in  stock.  Most  of  it  is  Western 
ammunition  which  he  gets  from  Nogales  as  contrabands  and  the  balance  is  from 
Arms  &  Metal  who  sell  this  man  metallics ■ 

"  Metallics  "  are  cartridges,  by  the  way,  are  they  not? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Yes. 

Senator  Barbour  (continuing  reading)  :     , 

at  less  than  the  cost  laid  down  Guadalajara  woiild  be  by  regular  importation. 
Arms  &  Metal  is  doing  this  to  compete  mth  prices  quoted  to  this  man  by 
Quintana  and  it  will  not  take  long  until  Quintana  will  make  use  of  this  con- 
fidential discount  and  will  try  to  underbid  Arms  &  Metal,  etc,  Roberto  A. 
Gonzales  of  this  city  offered  cal  25  auto,  at  Mex.  .$70.  a  hundred  to  this  man, 
and  laid  down  costs  of  this  cartridge  is  $92.30  Mex.  a  hundred  and  you  realize 
that  this  also  must  be  contrabands  metallica. 

I  want  to  explain,  Mr.  Chairman,  that  this  gentleman  who  writes 
this  letter  is  a  Latin  American,  and  his  English  or  the  translation 
of  it  does  not  lend  itself  to  very  ready  reading. 

Mr.  Monaghan,  is  this  the  general  situation  in  the  country?  I 
refer  now  to  the  existance  of  contrabands.  Is  that  a  unique  case,  or 
is  that  a  quite  usual  thing? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  I  do  not  know  what  the  general  situation  is;  I 
imagine  the  way  this  man  has  described  it. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2513 

Senator  Barbour.  You  iinclerstand  that  I  am  very  anxious  to  be 
frank  with  you  and  have  you  and  the  other  witnesses  frank  with 
me.  My  position  is  this  whole  thing  is  to  try  to  get  as  much  informa- 
tion as  I  can. 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Barbour.  I  am  not  subjecting  you  or  others  to  implica- 
tions that  you  are  not  entitled  to.  The  more  help  you  can  give  us, 
I  think  the  better  and  quicker  we  will  go.  I  mean,  if  it  is  a  fact 
that  you  know  there  is  a  great  deal  of  contraband  in  existence  ordina- 
rily, I  think  that  is  very  helpful,  and  it  does  not  bring  any  criticism 
on  you  at  all,  as  I  can  see  it. 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  All  I  can  answer  for.  Senator,  is  what  these 
people  write.  I  have  never  been  in  Mexico  myself  to  know  what  the 
real  true  situation  is  there,  and  I  do  not  recall  finding  this  letter  in 
our  file  as  having  been  pulled.  It  may  have  been,  but  I  do  not 
remember  reading  it  over  before. 

Senator  Barbour.  I  guess  there  is  no  doubt  of  its  being  a  proper 
document  in  that  respect? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  I  believe  so;  yes. 

Senator  Barbour.  Because  that  is  the  only  way  we  could  get  it. 

Now,  Mr.  Beebe,  this  letter  mentions  Western  ammunition  as  being 
handled  in  this  bootleg  fashion.  The  Western  Cartridge  Co.  now 
owns  Winchester,  as  I  understand  it. 

Mr.  Beebe.  That  is  right,  sir. 

Senator  Barbour.  I  wonder  if  you  have  any  knowledge  of  this 
question?  In  other  words,  I  asked  the  same  question  of  you  that  I 
just  asked  Mr.  Monaghan. 

Mr.  Beebe.  Let  us  see,  this  was  in  1930,  was  it  not  ? 

Senator  Barbour.  That  is  right,  September  1,  1930. 

Mr.  Beebe.  The  Western  Cartridge  Co.  bought  the  assets  of  the 
Winchester  Repeating  Arms  Co.,  I  think,  about  December  1931. 
So  that  this  is  a  situation  about  Western  which  I  would  be  unable  to 
answer.  I  should  presume  that  any  contraband  that  reached  there 
might  be  materials  bought  from  anybody  in  the  United  vStates  and 
smuggled  over,  if  there  was  such  a  case. 

Senator  Barbour.  To  go  on,  in  order  to  secure  import  permits  for 
ammunition  in  Mexico,  we  understand  that  application  must  be  made 
to  the  war  department  there,  to  the  general  in  charge.    Is  that  so? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Barbour.  It  says  in  this  same  letter,  on  page  4,  last  para- 
graph, as  follows : 

The  general  in  charge  of  the  war  department,  artillery  depai'tment,  has, 
however,  not  signed  for  the  past  3  weelcs,  and  this  in  spite  of  the  fact  tiiat  we 
have  contributed  with  $200  oro  nacional  to  make  the  general's  life  more  pleasant 
and  reform  the  new  law  on  ammunition  and  arms,  so  with  all  contrabands,  price 
underbidding  of  Arms  &  Metal  and  Quintana,  permit  affairs,  etc.,  you  will 
appreciate  wliat  joy  it  is  to  work  for  Remington  Arms  Co.,  Inc. 

(The  letter  refered  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  960  ",  and  is  in- 
cluded in  the  appendix  on  page  2603.) 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Senator,  on  those  things,  I  really  believe  that  you 
know  the  situation  of  an  agent  working  on  commission,  the  letters 
they  will  write  you  telling  you  the  hardships  they  undergo  in  getting 
business  for  you,  the  competition  they  meet,  and  how  much  money 
they  have  to  spend. 


2514  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

The  Chairman.  Would  they  be  alibiing  to  that  extent  as  much 
if  they  Avere  on  commission  as  they  would  be  if  they  were  on  a  regu- 
lar salary? 

Mr.  MoxAGHAN.  It  is  hard  to  say  just  wliicli  way  it  would  be. 
In  either  case  they  would  be  telling  their  home  office  of  the  amount 
of  work  that  they  were  doing  and  the  difficulty  of  getting  the  business 
for  you. 

Senator  Barbour.  Those  methods  are  necessary? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  They  are  human  nature,  that  is  all. 

Senator  Barbour.  I  mean,  you  do  not  sell  unless  those  methods 
are  followed? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  I  did  not  mean  that ;  I  mean  in  writing  this  type 
of  letter. 

Senator  Barbour.  Oh,  yes. 

Now,  Mr.  Monaghan,  right  there  in  the  last  paragraph  of  this 
letter,  your  agent  asks  for  credit  or  cash  for  reimbursement  of  this 
payment  to  these  Mexican  generals,  as  I  understand  it,  because  he 
says: 

I  forgot  to  mentiou  that  $200  which  we  kept  at  the  office  ready  for  War  De- 
partment expenses  were  stolen  tlie  other  day,  so  you  better  make  the  check 
or  U.S.G.  $240. 


Apparently  he  had  this  $240  handy  here  for  the  Mexican  War  De- 
partment, and  it  disappeared,  so  he  asks  you  for  twice  that  amount. 
What  about  that?     Can  you  throw  any  light  on  it? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  I  would  like  to  say  two  things:  First,  now  that 
I  have  gotten  down  to  this  part  of  the  letter,  I  do  remember  seeing 
a  copy  of  this,  and  know  that  we  had  a  copy  that  was  taken  from  our 
files.  This  point  brings  it  to  mind,  because  we  got  a  laugh  out  of 
reading  it  again. 

I  have  looked  into  it,  and  there  was  not  a  cent  paid  to  Heedles  & 
Breidsprecher  on  the  strength  of  this  letter.  I  think  the  letter  itself 
indicates  the  spirit  in  which  it  was  written. 

Senator  Barbour.  He  certainly  was  in  an  optimistic  spirit. 

Mr.  Monaghan,  Well,  he  did  not  get  it. 

Senator  Barbour.  No  such  payment  was  made? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  No,  sir;  not  a  cent. 

Senator  Barbour.  By  yourselves,  in  answer  to  this  call? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Not  a  cent. 

Senator  Barbour.  You  are  quite  sure  of  it? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Absolutely. 

The  Chairman.  Mr.  Davis,  I  believe  you  were  sworn  the  other 
day. 

Mr.  Davis.  Yes. 

The  Chairman.  There  are  two  other  gentlemen  whom  I  think 
have  not  been  sworn,  who  may  be  participating  in  the  examination, 
that  will  be  sworn  at  this  time. 

TESTIMONY   OF  C.  K.   DAVIS,  H.  F.   BEEBE    (RECALLED),  W.   U. 
REISINGER,  AND  E.  E.  HANDY 

(Mr.  Reisinger  and  Mr.  Handy  were  duly  sworn  by  the  chairman.) 
The  Chairman.  For  the  information  of  the  committee,  will  you 
please  give  your  name? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2515 

Mr.  Reisinger.  W.  U.  Reisinoer. 

The  Chairman.  And  your  connection? 

Mr.  Reisingeb.  Secretary  and  treasurer,  Remington  Arms  Co. 

The  Chairman.  And  yours? 

Mr.  Handy.  E.  E.  Handy,  vice  president,  Remington  Arms  Co. 

Senator  Barbour.  On  March  11,  1931,  these  same  agents,  the  Mex- 
ican agents  in  Mexico,  informed  the  company  that  the  person  in  the 
War  Department  was  apparently  demanding  more  money. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  961"  and  is  in- 
cluded in  the  appendix  on  p.  2605.) 

Senator  Barbour.  I  will  read,  if  I  may,  the  latter  part  of  the  third 
paragraph : 

We  had  a  friend  over  there  at  the  department  that  represented  quite  an 
investment  for  us — 

I  do  not  know  whether  that  is  a  significant  statement  or  not. 

and  he  was  supposed  to  stay  on  and  the  trouble  maker  go  out  at  the  end  of  last 
month,  and  the  result  was  that  the  trouble  maker  held  on  and  he  went  out. 

He  was  asking  for  10  Mexican  Cy..  per  cartritlge  and  you  can  appreciate  what 
that  means,  for  revolvers  he  asked  for  ,$2  each.  I  have  been  taking  him  out 
and  endeavoring  to  demonstrate  w^here  he  was  wrong  and  why  and  although 
it  has  taken  a  while  I  may  be  able  to  get  somewhere  -aitli  him'  this  week. 

Is  this  a  very  general  practice  ?  That  is  a  very  definite  indication 
to  me  of  a  fixed  price  that  had  to  be  contributed  with  relation  not 
only  to  shells,  but  also  to  revolvers,  and  that  the  man  had  to  be 
bribed,  to  put  it  bluntly,  or  you  not  sell  your  ffoods.  Is  that  a  fair 
statement?     I  do  not  want  to  say  anything  that  is  not  fair. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  No,  sir;  I  do  not  think  so. 

Senator  Barbour.  Can  you  throw  some  other  light  on  it  that  will 
make  a  distinction  there  that  Avill  be  a  difference  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  This  letter  goes  back  to  March  11, 1931.  We  have 
a  rather  loose,  perhaps,  contract  or  agreement  with  Heedles  &  Breid- 
sprechor,  entered  into  about  1927  or  1928,  where  they  are  to  get  71/2 
percent  commission  or  10  percent  commission,  rather  leaving  it  to 
our  judgment  or  decision  as  to  which  they  are  to  get.  Many  times 
when  I  receive  letters  like  this,  or  read  them,  I  say,  "  Oh,  oh,  one  of 
those  things  again;  that  goes  up  to  10  percent,  and  here  goes  the 
argument  for  the  10  percent." 

Senator  Barbour.  I  see. 

Mr.  Beebe,  there  is  no  further  light  that  you  could  throw  on  the 
situation  in  a  general  way? 

Mr.  Beebe.  None  whatever. 

Senator  Barbour.  By  the  way,  where  I  read  only  part  of  an  ex- 
hibit and  the  witness  has  the  whole  exhibit  before  him,  if  he  feels 
that  something  in  addition  should  be  read,  it  is  only  fair  for  him  to 
make  the  request.  We  have  so  many  letters  here  and  they  are  so 
long  that  I  have  marked  only  certain  passages  myself.  But  that 
does  not  mean  that  other  things  can  not  be  read  if  it  is  felt  fair  to 
read  other  things. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Senator,  there  is  one  other  thought  perhaps  you 
would  like  to  have  expressed  here.  That  is.  that  all  this  business 
that  is  spoken  of  in  this  letter  and  the  former  one.  is  commercial 
ammunition,  not  military  ammunition.  We  have  not  sold  any  mili- 
tary ammunition  in  our  company  to  Mexico  or  anywhere  near  Mexico 


2516  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

where  we  knew  it  was  destined  to  Mexico  by  the  facts  that  developed, 
since  1929.  In  1929,  you  recall,  there  was  some  trouble  in  Mexico 
at  the  beginning  of  the  year.  At  that  time  we  had  a  few  sales,  one 
in  particular  I  have  in  mind,  to  the  Governor  of  the  State  of  Lower 
California.  That  and  every  other  instance  at  that  time  was  called 
to  the  attention  of  the  United  States  Department  of  Stae.  They 
were  advised  of  the  details  of  it,  of  items,  and  the  quantities,  because 
they  were  military  items.  We  knew  they  were  intended  for  military 
use.  The  item  and  the  quantity  of  the  item  very  clearlv  indicated 
that. 

As  I  say,  since  that  time  we  have  not  had  any  military  sales  to 
Mexico  or  near  Mexico  that  I  know  of. 

Mr.  Davis.  Senator,  in  this  connection  it  might  be  of  interest  to  you 
know  that  more  than  96  percent  of  our  sales  this  year  have  been  in 
sporting  arms  and  ammunition,  and  for  the  past  10  years  we  have 
averaged  only  li^  percent  sales  to  foreign  and  United  States  Govern- 
ments. Of  the  lyo  percent  two-thirds,  or  1  percent,  was  to  the  United 
States  Government.  Sales  amounted  to  one-half  of  1  percent  to 
foreign  governments. 

Senator  Barbour.  When  you  speak  of  sporting  arms  and  ammu- 
nition, do  you  refer  to  shot  guns? 

Mr.  Davis.  Shot  guns  and  rifles  for  hunting,  .22  rifles  and  ammu- 
nition therefor.  I  might  say  that  we  have  a  full  line  of  our  guns 
down  here,  that  we  would  like  to  show  you  any  time  you  wish. 

Senator  Barbour.  We  will  speak  about  that  afterwards. 

Senator  Pope.  What  calibres  do  you  regard  as  war  guns?  You 
sa}'^  a  .22  rifle  would  be  regarded  as  a  sporting  arm.  Would  a  .32 
be  regarded  as  sjDorting  arms?  What  is  your  distinction  there  be- 
tween war  material  and  sporting  arms? 

Mr.  Davis.  The  shot  guns,  of  course,  are  20  gauge,  16,  and  12. 

Senator  Pope.  Yes. 

Mr.  Davis.  Then  we  have  a  .22  rifle.  The  range  of  a  .22  rifle, 
Senator,  is  about  250  to  300  yards.  That  is  the  effective  range.  The 
effective  range  of  a  shot  gun  is  about  100  yards,  whereas  military 
rifles  are  about  1,200  yards.  I  think  that  Mr.  Hadley  would  give 
you  a  definition  of  the  difference  between  sporting  arms  and  military 
arms  if  you  would  like  to  have  it. 

Senator  Barbour.  I  have  that  fairly  clearly  in  mind,  Mr.  Davis, 
so  far  as  I  am  concerned,  although  I  do  think  that  in  Central  Amer- 
ica and  South  America,  and  at  times  in  Mexico,  there  have  been  all 
kinds  of  arms  used  other  than  for  just  sporting  purposes.  I  do  not 
say  that  to  refute  what  you  say,  but  I  do  think  that. 

Mr.  Davis.  I  have  no  direct  knowledge  of  that. 

The  Chairman.  You  mean  that  in  some  cases  shot  guns  would 
be  used? 

Senator  Barbour.  Or  any  type  of  repeating  rifle  might  be  used. 

By  the  way,  that  is  a  very  good  statement  you  have  made.  I  am 
glad  you  have  made  it.  Would  that  also  apply  to  the  metallics? 
Do  your  shells  fall  in  the  same  category  as  your  small  arms? 

Mr.  Davis.  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Barbour.  So  far  as  sporting  and  military  uses  are  con- 
cerned ? 

Mr.  Davis.  Yes,  sir. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2517 

Senator  Barboltr.  The  next  exhibit  is  a  letter  dated  March  21, 
1931,  wherein  the  Remington  agents  in  Mexico  stated  that  the  War 
Department  official  made  a  slip  in  that  he  issued  a  permit  for  Win- 
chester.    I  will  read  just  a  small  part  of  that. 

Gonzalez  also  secured  a  permit  for  1(J0,<.X)0  but  tins  was  a  slip  up  on  our 
friend  in  the  department,  we  both  had  an  application  in,  that  is  Winchester 
as  well  as  ourselves,  and  he  permitted  both  to  be  issued  at  the  same  time  but 
I  think  Gonzalez  also  will  delay  liis  order.  ' 

At  that  time,  Gonzalez.  I  understand,  Mr.  Beebe.  was  vour  ao-ent 
was  he  not  ?  '  -  ^  ^      j 

Mr.  Beebe.  No.     He  was  a  dealer. 

Senator  Barbour.  A  dealer,  a  customer  of  yours  ? 

Mr.  Beebe.  A  customer ;  yes. 

Senator  Barbour.  The  last  paragraph  in  the  same  letter  is 
interesting : 

We  are  cont^ulted  for  most  of  the  "  acuordos  ",  that  is,  to  whom  permits  can 
be  granted,  delayed,  canceled,  refused,  etc.,  and  we  hope  it  lasts  for  a  while 
longer,  because  in  about  6  months'  time  nothing  but  Kleenbore  would  be 
allowed. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Senator,  is  not  that  the  best  example  of  what  I 
said  l3efore  about  these  letters?  Mr.  Beebe  could  tell  you  that  we 
certainly  never  did  get  all  the  business  down  there. 

Senator  BARBOuit.  Of  course,  the  implication  is,  or  could  be— yet 
I  do  not  believe  in  just  implications— that  by  these  commissions'  if 
you  want  to  stick  to  the  word,  you  carj  get  the  business,  and  without 
them  3'ou  cannot. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  Xo.  962  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  page  2606.)  ' 

Senator  Barbour.  The  next  exhibit  is  a  letter  of  March  16  also 
from  the  Remington  agency  in  Mexico.  I  will  read  some  of'  this 
It  IS  the  last  part  of  the  first  paragraph  : 

The  reason  for  this  is  that  this  company  is  getting  a  large  quantity  of 
metallics  over  the  border  without  paying  duty,  Mr.  Silva  has  a  combination 
with  a  number  of  customhouse  officials?  Jn  Ciudad  Juarez 

However  in  order  to  import  large  quantities  of  metallics  which  is  the 
intention  ot  Mr.  Silva,  he  is  going  to  send  to  our  office  several  applications  for 
permits  which  will  cover  a  greater  quantity  of  metallics  than  specified  later  on 
the  permits,  the  permits  simply  cover  up  the  whole  affair  and  if  he  gets  ir 
trouble  he  can  make  reference  to  these  permits.  As  soon  as  I  get  to  Mexico 
City  I  shall  see  that  the  War  Department  will  grant  those  permit!  and  as  s^  on 
as  we  have  secured  same  you  can  expect  quite  larger  orders  from  this  client 

lou  are  undoubtedly  aware  of  the  fact  that  all  of  the  arms  and  amniunition 
which  you  ship  to  this  client  is  for  sale  into  Mexico,  he  does  not  do  any 

ciuTcfjutrb^iiilSi.^'^'^  '''''• '' ''''  ^^-  ""^^''^^  '^'^  ^-^--  thiLlr./iS 

?i^®  Chairman.  Hoav  long  have  you  employed  this  firm '? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  I  think  since  1927  or  1928. 

The  Chairman.  Are  you  still  employing  them? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Barbour.  In  other  words,  the  shipment  to  the  border 
really  ceases  as  far  as  the  responsibility  of  the  shipper  is  concerned, 
and  after  that  it  is  no  concern  of  the  shipper  or  manufacturer  what 
becomes  of  the  cartridges? 

Mr.  Monaghan  In  some  respects  if  we  followed  the  shipments 
through  to  completion  we  might  be  getting  in  trouble  with  the 
J^ederal  Trade  Commission. 


2518  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Senator  Barbour.  I  am  just  trying  to  show— I  am  not  trying  to 
name  anybody— by  this  very  method  that  you  follow  or  have  to  fol- 
low, a  great  deal  of  your  product  could  become  contraband  through 
no  fault  of  your  own.    That  is  true,  is  it  not? 

Mr.  Handy.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  May  I  ask  if  you  will  read  the  last  paragraph 
on  the  first  page? 

Senator  Barbour.  Yes.     [Reading:] 

I  believe  we  never  received  any  conmiission  on  the  sales  which  yon  make  to 
this  company  althoug:h  all  of  these  sales  cover  goods  for  sale  into  IVIexico 
and  for  that  reason  yon  sell  this  acconnt  at  export  prices  and  ship  from  yonr 
export  department  and  not  domestic  department  and  I  would  appreciate  if 
you  would  kindly  look  up  this  matter  and  see  that  the  commission  which  will 
be  due  to  us  will  be  taken  care  of. 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  Following  receipt  of  that  letter  we  gave  Heedles 
&  Breidsprecher  a  commission  on  the  sales  to  the  Mexican  Hard- 
ware Co.  AYe  never  have  yet  heard  any  more  about  how  the  Mex- 
ican Hardware  is  conducting  their  business.  It  indicated  clearly 
why  he  stopped  to  see  Mr.  Silva  and  why  we  had  this  report. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  ''  Exhibit  No.  963  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  page  2607.) 

Senator  Barbour.  It  appears  from  a  letter  written  to  Remington 
dated  November  13,  1929.  by  Fernandez,  that  bribery  of  a  little 
higher  order  is  customary  in  Guatemala. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  964",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  page  2607.) 

The  Chairman.  I  should  like  to  ask  before  you  leave  t^he  case  of 
this  Mexican  firm,  you  have  said  that  this  same  firm  is  still  in  your 
employ  ? 

Mr.'MoNAGiiAN.  Heedles  &  Breidsprecher? 

The  Chairman.  Yes. 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  Yes,  sir. 

The  Chairman.  Are  you  encountering  continued  experiences  in 
what  you  call  "  padding  "  their  expense  accounts  ? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  They  have  no  expense  account  of  any  kind  with 
us.  We  ]3ay  them  a  commission  on  the  business.  We  have  never 
paid  Heedles  &  Breidsprecher  a  cent  in  any  way  to  tie  in  with  the 
statements  that  shoAv  in  some  of  these  letters  of  the  amount  that 
they  paid  out  to  a  general  or  the  amount  that  was  stolen  from  their 
safe,  or  anything  like  that. 

The  Chairman.  Why  do  they  Avrite  these  letters  to  you  if  they 
laiow  th("re  isn't  any  chance  of  recovery? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  Perhaps  they  just  keep  on  trying.  They  don't 
get  anything;  that  is  sure. 

Mr. 'D.\^^s.  Senator.  I  would  like  to  say  that  it  is  not  the  policy 
of  the  Remington  Arms  Co.  to  obtain  business  by  bribery  or  graft. 
If  we  cannot  obtain  it  any  other  way,  we  don't  want  it. 

The  CHAiR:srAN.  And  yet  here  are  the  letters  coming  to  you  report- 
ing to  you  wliat  your  agents,  your  folks,  down  there  are  doing,  and 
yet  you  keep  them  as  your  agents. 

Mr.  Davis.  I  know*  nothing  about  this.  This  happened  before  I 
was  connected  with  them. 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  You  see,  that  was  prior  to  du  Point  acquiring 
control  of  the  Remington  Arms  Co.,  Senator. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2519 

Senator  CiiARK.  The  same  fellow  is  still  representing  you  down 
there,  isn't  he? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  Yes,  he  is,  and  I  might  tell  you,  too,  that  the 
activities  of  the  agent  down  there  are  in  shotgun  cartridges  or  .22 
caliber  cartridges,  such  as  Mr.  Davis  described  to  you.  They  are 
entirely  sporting  items.  They  could  not  be  used  for  any  other  pur- 
pose by  the  greatest  stretch  of  the  imagination.  But  they  come  un- 
der the  War  Department  regulations  and  you  have  to  get  permits. 
I  do  not  know  it  in  detail,  but  I  have  had  it  reported  to  me  that 
the  rules  and  regulations  that  surround  the  importation  and  sale 
of  those  sporting  items  are  similar  to  military  supplies,  and  nat- 
urally Heedles  &  Breidsprecher  are  working  with  them  in  an  at- 
tempt to  differentiate  between  sporting  items  and  any  military  items. 

Senator  Clark.  The  only  reason  they  included  sporting  ammuni- 
tion in  the  classification  of  the  War  Department  is  to  simply  throw 
the  burden  on  the  shipper  to  show  it  is  not  military  ammunition? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Yes;  that  is  true,  and  yet  in  Mexico  and  in 
other  countries  they  place  those  restrictions  on  us.  They  do  not 
differentiate  at  any  time.  They  keep  those  regulations  on  the  .22's 
and  on  shotgun  cartridges.  You  would  be  astonished  to  see  some 
of  the  red  tape  we  have  to  go  through  in  making  a  shipment  of 
sporting  ammunition  to  any  of  the  Latin  American  countries. 

The  Chairman.  Do  you  think  this  representation  that  was  made 
of  someone  having  stolen  the  money  that  was  on  hand  to  do  some- 
thing with,  that  there  was  any  occasion  for  such  a  report?  Do  you 
think  it  was  stolen  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  I  don't  know. 

The  Chairman.  I  very  clearly  gathered,  and  I  think  the  other 
members  of  the  committee  have,  that  you  do  not  have  a  large  trust 
in  this  firm. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  They  are  good  agents. 

The  Chairman.  They  are  good  agents,  but  you  get  a  letter  from 
them  and  you  say,  "  Aha,  another  one  of  that  kind  of  letters." 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Perhaps  they  are  business  men.  They  are  not 
working  on  a  salary.     They  are  working  on  commission. 

The  Chairman.  You  distrust  their  representations? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  No,  sir. 

The  Chairman.  You  distrust  them? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  No. 

Senator  Barbour.  You  didn't  send  them  their  $480  in  that  case? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  No,  sir. 

Senator  Barbour.  So  either  you  cheated  them  or  you  did  not  feel 
they  were  entitled  to  it. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  I  don't  say  we  cheated  them. 

Senator  Barbour.  I  say,  you  did  either  one  or  the  other.  If  you 
trusted  them  you  would  send  them  the  $480. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  I  didn't  feel  they  were  entitled  to  it. 

Senator  Barbour.  They  should  not  have  asked  for  it. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  No. 

The  Chairman.  You  have  large  faith  in  this  firm  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Yes. 

The  Chairman.  Large  trust  in  them? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Yes. 

83876—35 — pt  11 9 


2520  MUNITIONS    INDUSTBY 

The, Chairman.  Irrespective  of  the  representations  made  in  their 
letters  ? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  Surely ;  as  I  say,  they  are  business  men,  working 
on  commissions,  and  the  more  business  they  do  the  bigger  their 
return. 

The  Chairman.  And  however  they  may  do  the  business,  you  get 
it? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  I  do  not  reach  that  same  conclusion;  I  don't 
believe,  the  way  you  do,  Senator. 

METHODS    or    DOING    BUSINESS GUATEMALA 

Senator  Barbour.  I  may  revert  again,  if  I  may,  to  the  letter  I 
mentioned  "  Exhibit  No.  964  ",  dated  November  13,  by  Fernandez, 
which  I  think  will  speak  for  itself. 

Senator  Barbour.  It  refers  to  an  order,  and  then  he  goes  on  to  say : 

This  subsecretary  held  the  signing  of  same  and  finally  did  not  sign.  He  is 
a  very  close  friend  of  Salvador  Koenigsberger,  agent  for  Western  and  showed 
Salvador  Koenigsberger  the  contract  for  the  paltry  sum  of  $100  and  at  the 
same  time  made  a  lot  of  noise,  recommending  that  the  order  vs^as  not  legal 
because  it  was  not  submitted  to  public  bidding,  and  at  the  same  time  attached 
to  Van  de  Putte's  contract,  an  offer  from  Western's  agent,  for  the  same  quan- 
tities but  for  the  amount  of  $15,066,  Van  de  Putte's  contract  being  for  $18,000, 
The  difference  between  your  quotation  and  the  amount  appearing  on  the 
contract  was  to  be  divided  among  the  Minister  of  War,  etc.,  and  Juan  Van  de 
Putte  &  Co.  had  already  advanced  to  Gen.  Juan  Padilla  the  sum  of  $1,000 
on  account  of  this  order  and  another  $4,000  for  another  contract  effected  for 
some  leather  kids  and  belts,  for  the  national  army.  When  this  happened  the 
Minister  of  War  sent  for  all  the  papers  and  documents,  and  was  going  to  put 
it  through  because  they  expected  a  clean-up  in  all  departments,  and  naturally 
the  order  remained  in  status  quo,  although  we  retained  the  right-of-way,  the 
Minister  of  War  being  morally  obligated. 

Is  that  the  way  in  which  a  little  grease,  as  referred  to  in  this 
letter,  is  handled,  and  business  conducted  in  that  way  in  that 
country  ? 

I  can  read  something  else,  on  the  second  page  of  the  same  letter 
[reading]  : 

He  has  been  fighting  like  hell.  He  is  a  very  close  friend  of  General  Padilla, 
the  Minister  of  War,  and  this  Minister  of  War  is  indebted  to  Winchester, 
because  they  give  him  a  commission  for  ordering  in  all  the  permits  Winchester 
ammunition. 

I  suppose  that  means  he  has  a  commission  for  arranging  the  per- 
mits for  Winchester,  as  another  way  of  putting  it.  As  I  say,  the 
wording  is  very  difficult  to  read,  with  the  continuity. 

You  will  recall  that  when  Freddy — 

Who  is  Freddy  ? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  Koenigsberger. 

Senator  Barbour  (continuing  reading)  : 

You  will  recall  that  when  Freddy  arrived  in  New  York  he  Imd  quite  a  nice 
order  for  loaded  shells  and  some  cartridges.  Both  these  orders  were  for 
Winchester,  but  Freddy  gave  you  the  order  for  the  cartridges  and  he  bought 
the  loaded  shells  from  Winchester,  and  when  he  arrived  here  the  genei*al  gave 
him  hell  for  doing  so,  and  he  finally  admitted  to  Freddy  tliat  he  was  "  morally  " 
interested  in  Winchester.  The  percentage  of  commission  whicli  they  gave  the 
INIinister  of  War  I  have  been  unable  to  find  out,  but  I  believe  that  I  will  secure 
this  information  before  I  leave. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2521 

Did  you  get  that  information  from  him  in  due  course  ?  Did  he  find 
that  out,  do  you  know  ? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  I  was  reading  ahead,  taking  the  letter  as  a  whole. 
Senator.     I  did  not 

Senator  Barbour.  Well,  after  all,  what  we  are  really  interested  in 
is  to  what  extent  General  Padilla  is  morally  interested,  and  why. 
Mr.  Beebe,  can  you  give  us  any  light  on  that,  because  it  refers  spe- 
cifically to  Winchester  in  that  case. 

Mr.  Beebe.  General  Padilla  was  a  friend  of  Elmslie  Jonas,  our 
salesman,  as  I  understand  it. 

The  Chairman.  Is  that  the  Jonas  who  appeared  before  the  com- 
mittee in  September? 

Mr,  Beebe,  No. 

Senator  Barbour.  Is  it  his  brother? 

Mr.  Beebe.  It  is  E.  E.  Jonas. 

Senator  Barbour.  Is  it  his  brother? 

Mr.  Beebe.  It  is  his  brother;  yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Is  the  Jonas  who  appeared  before  us  a  Rem- 
ington salesman? 

Mr.  Beebe.  That  is  correct. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  This  Jonas  is  a  Winchester  salesman? 

Mr.  Beebe.  Yes. 

Senator  Barbour.  Well,  you  cannot  throw  any  light  on  that,  Mr„ 
Beebe? 

Mr.  Beebe.  No. 

Senator  Barbour.  It  speaks  very  specifically  of  actual  money  that 
went  to  Government  officials  and  speaks  of  you  in  connection  with  it ; 
that  is,  your  company. 

Mr.  Beebe.  Yes.  I  think  on  that  the  best  thing  would  be  for  yoii 
to  ask  Mr.  Elmslie  Jonas,  who  is  here,  to  explain  this.  He  was  a 
friend  of  General  Padilla  before  he  ever  came  here,  and  it  had  to  do 
with  a  purely  commercial  transaction,  as  I  understand  it. 

The  Chairman.  Mr.  Jonas,  come  forward  and  be  sworn. 

TESTIMONY  OF  EIMSLIE  E.  JONAS 

(The  witness  was  duly  sworn  by  the  chairman.) 

The  Chairman.  Come  forward  a  little  further,  Mr.  Jonas. 

Senator  Barbour.  Mr.  Jonas,  will  you  run  your  eyes  through  that 
letter? 

The  Chairman.  Just  a  minute.  Mr.  Jonas,  give  the  committee 
your  full  name. 

Mr.  Jonas.  Elmslie  E.  Jonas. 

The  Chairman.  Where  is  j'^our  home,  Mr.  Jonas? 

Mr.  Jonas.  New  York. 

The  Chairman.  You  are  a  representative  of  what  firm? 

Mr.  Jonas.  The  Winchester  Repeating  Arms  Co.  and  the  Western 
Cartridge  Co.  at  present. 

The  Chairman.  How  long  have  you  been  such  ? 

Mr.  Jonas.  Since  1920. 

What  was  the  question.  Senator  ? 

The  Chairman.  He  wants  an  explanation  of  that  second  and 
third  paragraph,  as  to  just  what  the  meaning  of  it  is  and  what  the 
relationship  involved  there  was. 


2522  MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY 

Senator  Barbour.  To  the  end  that  we  may  find  out,  if  we  can,  Mr. 
Jonas,  the  moral  obligation  that  General  Padilla  feels  toward  Win- 
chester and  how  he  got  that  state  of  mind. 

Mr.  Jonas.  I  was  a  friend  of  General  Padilla  before  he  was  the 
Minister  of  War,  and  when  he  became  Minister  of  War  he  might 
have  favored  me  by  making  it  easy  to  get  permits  for  the  importa- 
tion of  commercial  ammunition.  This  particular  case  was  a  case 
where  he  wrote  to  me  that  the  firm  of  Koenigsberger  wanted  to  buy 
shotgun  shells,  and  due  to  his  so-called  "  friendship  "  he  issued  the 
permit  in  favor  of  Winchester. 

Senator  Barbour  Then  in  your  case  you  get  these  permits  simply 
on  the  basis  of  friendship. 

Mr.  Jonas.  Well  he  wrote  to  me  at  the  time  and  suggested  that  I 
make  him  a  present.     I  didn't  do  it  then. 

Senator  Clark.  You  didn't  do  it  then  ? 

Mr.  Jonas.  No;  but  on  one  trip  to  Guatemala  I  did  make  him  a 
present. 

Senator  Clark.  How  long  was  that  after  he  suggested  it  ? 

Mr.  Jonas.  Oh,  probably  6  months. 

Senator  Clark.  What  did  you  give  him  ? 

Mr.  Jonas.  I  gave  him  on  one  order  $250. 

Senator  Barbour.  On  one  order  ? 

Mr.  Jonas.  Yes. 

Senator  Clark.  He  was  a  petty-larceny  grafter,  wasn't  he? 

Mr.  Jonas.  Yes. 

The  Chairman.  You  say  one  order? 

Mr.  Jonas.  Yes. 

The  Chairman.  Then  you  gave  him  on  other  orders? 

Mr.  Jonas.  I  do  not  recall  the  amounts 

The  Chairman.  Or  presents  on  other  orders  ? 

Mr.  Jonas.  But  on  practically  all  import  permits  on  commercial 
ammunition,  for  importations  to  private  firms,  not  military. 

The  Chairman.  How  did  you  strike  up  a  personal  acquaintance 
with  him? 

Mr.  Jonas.  For  one  thing,  he  was  quite  a  hunter.  I  have  been  out 
on  hunts  with  him.  Formerly  he  was  in  charge  of  railroads.  He 
was  the  Government  supervisor  of  railroads  and  I  knew  him  at  that 
time. 

Senator  Clark.  Was  it  before  or  after  you  gave  him  the  $250  that 
he  wrote  this  letter  as  to  being  under  moral  obligations  to  the  Win- 
chester Co. '2 

Mr.  Jonas.  I  think  it  was  before.     I  would  not  be  positive  of  that. 

Senator  Clark.  You  mean  he  wrote  the  letter  before  you  gave  him 
the  $250? 

Mr.  Jonas.  Yes ;  I  believe  it  was. 

Senator  Clark.  What  was  the  moral  obligation  he  was  under  to 
Winchester  ? 

Mr.  Jonas.  I  think  the  word  was  not  intended.  I  don't  under- 
stand what  he  means  by  it. 

Senator  Clark.  I  don't  either. 

Senator  Barbour.  There  is  a  great  deal  of  the  same  sort  of  thing 
here,  Mr.  Chairman.  I  think  we  can  go  on.  These  instances  of 
themselves,  I  am  frank  to  admit,  are  not  great,  as  I  view  it  in  one 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY  2523 

sense,  but  taking  it  altogether  they  show  a  situation  which  I  think 
warrants  the  time  of  our  completing  the  picture. 

The  Chairman.  Yes. 

Mr.  Jonas.  I  think,  Senator,  that  is  about  the  only  instance  in  my 
experience  where  that  actually  has  happened.  It  is  one  of  the  very, 
very  few  times.  It  is  the  only  case  that  happened  at  that  particular 
time  with  that  particular  party.  I  do  not  think  it  is  general  at  all 
in  our  dealings  with  our  agents  or  our  customers. 

Mr.  Beebe.  May  I  make  a  further  statement  in  regard  to  this? 
I  would  like  to  call  attention  to  two  things :  First,  that  was  made 
during  the  time  of  the  existence  of  the  old  company,  not  the  present 
company. 

Senator  Barbour.  Yes. 

Mr.  Beebe.  Furthermore,  to  clear  up  positively  that  that  was  to 
secure  or  in  return  for  favoring  Winchester  in  the  way  of  a  permit, 
but  not  on  any  Government  business ;  it  was  purely  commercial  busi- 
ness; shot,  shells,  and  so  forth. 

Senator  Clark.  It  was  a  payment  to  a  public  official  for  perform- 
ing a  public  duty,  was  it  not? 

Mr.  Beebe.  No.  It  was  for  switching  the  business  from  another 
concern  to  Winchester. 

Senator  Clark.  It  was  part  of  his  business  to  issue  the  permits, 
was  it  not  ? 

Mr.  Beebe.  Yes;  to  issue  permits. 

Senator  Clark.  And  he  did  receive  a  present  or  a  bribe,  as  you 
please  to  call  it,  for  performing  a  public  duty. 

Senator  Barbour.  This  was  the  Minister  of  War  that  was  involved 
in  this.     It  was  not  commercial. 

Mr.  Beebe.  No.  I  would  like  to  amplify  that,  if  you  please,  once 
more,  to  clear  up  this  point  that  Senator  Clark  brings  up.  This  is  an 
order  for  commercial  goods.  It  is  a  fact  that  the  Minister  of  War 
had  to  issue  a  permit  for  the  importation  of  commercial  ammunition. 
What  the  Minister  of  War  told  Mr.  Jonas  was  that  what  he  did  was  to 
induce  this  man  to  change  his  order  to  Winchester  and  then  he  would 
issue  the  permit,  and  after  he  had  done  that  wrote  and  told  him  what 
a  good  job  he  had  done  for  him,  and  suggested  it  was  worthj^  of  some 
recognition.  It  was  not  done  beforehand  for  switching  the  order, 
but  for  his  good  idea  in  changing  the  order  to  Winchester. 

Senator  Clark.  In  other  words,  Mr.  Jonas  became  an  accessory 
after  the  fact  instead  of  an  accessory  before  the  fact. 

Mr.  Beebe.  If  you  look  at  it  that  way,  although  he  had  no  prom- 
ise, Senator,  that  he  would  get  anything. 

The  Chairman.  What  did  you  consider  this  present  that  you  made, 
Mr.  Jonas? 

Mr.  Jonas.  As  a  percentage. 

The  Chairman.  As  a  bribe  at  the  time  ? 

Mr.  Jonas.  No;  I  thought  we  would  sell  the  ammunition  at  the 
regular  export  prices.  He  asked  for  it,  and  if  I  did  not  give  him  a 
present  I  did  not  expect  that  we  would  get  permits  in  the  future. 

The  Chairman.  Did  they  expect  presents  pretty  generally? 

Mr.  Jonas.  This  particular  party  did;  not  as  a  general  thing 
around  the  countries;  no. 

The  Chairman.  What  record  was  made  of  the  present  you  made 
to  him  ? 


2524  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Jonas.  I  suppose  I  charged  it  up,  just  as  it  was,  in  my  ex- 
penses as  payment.  I  do  not  know  just  what  happened.  I  did  not 
pay  it  out  of  my  own  pocket. 

Senator  Clark.  Did  you  pay  it  in  cash? 

Mr.  Jonas.  Paid  it  in  cash ;  yes. 

Senator  Clark.  Did  you  notify  the  company  that  you  had  made 
this  payment? 

Mr.  Jonas.  I  assume  I  did.    I  do  not  recall. 

Mr.  Beebe.  I  think  it  was  in  his  expenses. 

The  Chairman.  Mr,  Beebe,  you  recall  that  it  was  reported? 

Mr.  Beebe.  It  was  reported;  yes. 

Senator  Clark.  Do  you  recall  what  the  company  said,  Mr.  Jonas  ? 

Mr.  Jonas.  What  is  that? 

Senator  Clark.  Do  you  remember  what  the  company  said  when 
you  reported  to  them  that  you  had  given  this  man  a  bribe  of  $250  ? 

Mr.  Jonas.  I  would  not  call  it  a  bribe.  It  was  not  a  bribe  at  all. 
It  was  a  present  I  gave  him. 

Senator  Clark.  Given  to  a  public  official  for  performing  a  public 
act. 

Mr.  Jonas.  It  happened  to  be  he  was  a  Government  official.  It  had 
nothing  to  do  with  the  Government's  business,  however. 

Senator  Clark.  It  just  happened  to  be  he  had  the  power  to  issue 
these  permits  and  he  would  not  issue  them  unless  you  got  the  busi- 
ness, and  shortly  after  he  made  this  transaction  you  gave  him  $250. 
What  happened  when  you  reported  to  the  company  that  you  gave 
him  $250? 

Mr.  Jonas.  I  do  not  recall  what  happened. 

Senator  Clark.  They  didn't  write  to  you  and  fire  you  for  doing 
what  they  did  not  approve  of? 

Mr.  Jonas.  I  do  not  recall  that  at  all. 

Senator  Pope.  Did  you  say  that  you  gave  other  parties  money  ? 

Mr.  Jonas.  Probably  small  amounts. 

Senator  Pope.  At  this  time? 

Mr.  Jonas.  For  other  orders. 

Senator  Pope.  For  other  orders? 

Mr.  Jonas.  Yes. 

Senator  Pope.  Did  you  report  that  to  the  company  at  the  time  ? 

Mr.  Jonas.  I  presume  I  did. 

Senator  Clark.  Are  you  still  working  for  the  company  ? 

Mr.  Jonas.  Yes,  sir. 

The  Chairman.  Mr.  Jonas,  I  think  you  said  this  was  the  only  case 
of  the  kind  during  your  experience. 

Mr.  Jonas.  Paying  for  permits ;  yes,  I  think  so. 

The  Chairman.  Are  you  ready  to  swear  that  it  was  the  only  case  ? 

Mr.  Jonas.  If  I  remember  rightly;  yes.  If  anything  else  is  called 
to  my  attention,  I  will  tell  you. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Your  question  was  very  specific  on  permits, 
Mr.  Chairman.     The  answer  was  on  permits. 

The  Chairman.  Yes,  on  permits.  Now,  as  respects  the  present 
Government,  is  that  the  only  official  you  ever  made  a  present  to  ? 

Mr.  Jonas.  I  think,  yes. 

The  Chairman.  You  think  yes?  Don't  you  know?  Can't  you 
remember  the  presents  given  to  public  officials? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2525 

Mr.  Jonas.  I  might  have  given  them  a  rifle  or  some  very  trivial 
thing  possibly,  but  "that  doesn't  amount  to  anything;  nothing  of  any 
value  to  speak  of,  a  very  picayune  item,  if  it  were. 

The  Chairman.  This  was  the  only  monetary  consideration? 

Mr.  Jonas.  Yes,  I  am  sure  it  was. 

Senator  Barbour.  Keferring  to  Mr.  Jonas,  we  have  a  letter  of 
his — no,  that  is  the  brother. 

Senator  Clark.  Mr.  Jonas,  coming  back  to  this  $250,  as  a  matter 
of  fact,  you  gave  him  the  $250  for  issuing  the  permits,  didn't  you  ? 

Mr.  Jonas.  So  he  would  issue  permits,  yes. 

Senator  Clark.  You  said  you  were  afraid  he  would  not  issue  any 
more  permits  if  you  did  not  give  him  a  present  for  issuing  the  first 
batch. 

Mr.  Jonas.  That  is  right. 

METHODS  OF  DOING  BUSINESS NICARAGUA 

Senator  Barbour.  I  have  a  letter  here  from  Frank  Jonas,  written 
from  Nicaragua,  and  dated  June  27. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  965  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2609.) 

Senator  Barbour.  Is  that  Frank  S.  Jonas  your  brother  ? 

Mr.  Jonas.  He  is;  yes. 

Senator  Barbour.  He  is  an  employee  of  Remington? 

Mr.  Jonas.  I  believe  so. 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  Senator,  before  you  pass  up  that  other  letter,  it 
is  in  the  record — there  is  an  opinion  there  quoted  about  a  $3,000 
advance  necessary. 

Senator  Barbour.  What  letter  is  that? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  The  one  you  just  read,  at  the  bottom  of  the 
second  page,  about  Van  Putte. 

Senator  Barbour.  Yes. 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  It  says  [reading]  : 

To  proceed  with  shipment  order  need  $3,000  advance  adding  same  to  value 
of  order,  etc. 

We  never  advanced  that  money. 
Senator  Barbour.  You  never  did? 
Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  We  never  paid  that  money. 

Senator  Barbour.  Let  me  make  another  start  at  this  "  Exhibit  No. 
965."     This  is  June  27  [reading]  : 

General  Somoza  had  dinner  with  me  last  night,  and  he  told  me  that  he  in- 
tended to  equip  the  army  with  .45-caliber  Colt  automatic  pistols  as  standard 
equipment.  Gurueeta,  of  course,  when  he  is  here  is  pushing  the  Star  pistol, 
so  I  suggest  that  you  communicate  with  Mr.  Nicols  to  write  direct  to  General 
Somoza  oifering  to  sell  him  direct.  I  would  .suggest  that  in  his  quotation  he 
should  include  a  10-percent  commission  for  General  Somoza. 

Now,  is  this  customary? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  No,  sir;  this  is  very  unusual. 

Senator  Barbour.  Just  a  coincidence? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  Absolutely  not.  There  are  two  distinctions  that 
J  make  of  business  in  Nicaragua.  One  is  the  sales  for  the  use  of  the 
army.  The  other  is  for  sales  to  what  they  call  the  Guardia  Nacional. 
The  Guardia  Nacional  imports  all  of  the  commercial  aimnunition 
and  then  sells  it  to  the  dealers  there.     It  has  nothing  to  do  with 


2526  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

military  items.  This  letter  very  plainly  shows  that  the  understand- 
ing with  General  Somoza  is  that  the  commission  shall  apply  on 
orders  for  the  Guardia  Nacional,  not  on  purchases  of  the  Govern- 
ment for  their  own  use. 

Senator  Bakbour.  But  it  does  show  that  the  general  should  get 
the  10-percent  commission. 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  The  second  paragraph  of  that  letter  says  [read- 
ing] : 

General  Somoza  has  acceptetl  this  commission  with  the  full  knowledge  of  the 
President  and  it  is  not  considered  as  graft  but  is  considered  as  an  extra  pay- 
ment for  the  work  he  is  doing  here. 

The  Chairman.  I  suppose  that  as  long  as  the  President  knows 
about  it,  it  is  not  graft. 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  Have  I  made  it  clear,  Senator? 

Senator  Barbour.  Yes. 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  That  these  cartridges  for  the  Guardia  Nacional 
are  commercial  items,  shotgun  cartridges,  .22's,  revolver  and  pistol 
ammunition. 

The  Chairman.  Yes,  I  think  you  have. 

Senator  Barbour.  This  national  force  you  refer  to,  are  those  the 
ones  the  United  States  Marines  trained  ? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Barbour.  While  it  has  nothing  to  do  with  it  directly,  is 
this  General  Somoza  the  one  who  is  believed  or  supposed  to  have 
executed  Sandino? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  I  don't  know. 

Senator  Clark.  What  was  the  official  function  of  the  General,  the 
one  that  got  the  10  percent?    Does  that  appear? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  He  was  in  charge  of  the  Guardia  Nacional. 

Senator  Barbour.  That  would  be  like  our  militia,  I  suppose. 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  Partially,  I  suppose. 

METHODS    OF    DOING    BUSINESS — BAHAMA    ISLANDS 

Senator  Barbour.  In  San  Salvador  the  situation  seems  to  be  get- 
ting a  little  more  acute,  and  I  would  like  to  read  from  page  2  of  this 
letter  of  March  5  from  Fernandez  to  the  Remington  Arms  Co.,  a 
little  way  down  from  the  beginning. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  966  "  and  is  in- 
cluded in  the  appendix  on  p.  2610.) 

Senator  Barbour  (reading)  : 

The  Treasurer,  air.  Joaquin  Rodezno,  is  a  "  son  of  a  so-and-so  ",  to  put  it 
mildly.  I  have  been  trying  not  to  have  another  clash  with  him.  He  is  a 
very  good  friend  of  Saul  Garcia,  Winchester  representative,  and  he  has  been 
"  greased  "  by  Garcia,  with  the  result  that  he  is  as  mad  as  a  "  puppy  "  because 
I  secured  the  business  and  he  is  trying  to  place  everything  in  my  path  just 
to  bother. 

Garcia  is  the  Winchester  representative  and  Garcia  has  greased 
this  gentleman,  the  Treasurer;  is  that  so?  Do  the  Winchester  people 
know  anything  about  that? 

Mr.  Beebe.  No  knowledge  at  all.  He  is  our  agent  on  a  commission 
basis. 

Senator  Barbour.  The  commi.ssion,  of  course,  is  the  source  from 
which  the  grease  flows,  is  it  not? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2527 

Mr.  Beebe.  If  any  flowed,  it  probably  did  come  from  there.  I 
don't  know  where  else  it  would  come  from. 

Senator  Pope.  Did  he  put  it  in  his  expense  account? 

Mr.  Beebe.  He  has  no  expense  account.  They  are  our  local  agents, 
working  on  a  commission. 

Senator  Clark.  How  much  commission  did  you  pay  him? 

Mr.  Beebe.  It  depends  on  the  price  we  got  for  the  order  or  the 
price  at  which  he  has  been  able  to  get  the  order.  It  has  varied  from 
5  to  15  percent.  If  we  got  a  line  of  goods  on  which  the  profits  were 
reasonable  and  he  got  the  right  price,  we  have  at  times  given  him  15 
percent.     At  other  times  it  has  been  as  low  as  5  percent. 

The  Chairman.  Doesn't  it  amount  to  this,  Mr.  Beebe;  that  you 
engage  your  representatives  on  a  commission  basis  down  there  and 
you  tell  them  what  you  have  got  to  have  for  your  product,  and  any- 
thing they  sell  it  for  above  that  is  theirs  ? 

Mr.  Beebe.  To  an  extent,  except  we  always  have  to  have  in  mind 
the  competition  of  other  people,  and  that  more  or  less  in  most  cases 
prevents  any  abnormal  price  being  received  for  the  goods. 

Senator  Barbour.  Here  is  just  a  short  bit  in  the  third  paragraph 
[reading]  : 

This  is  one  party  I  do  not  have  to  "  grease  ",  but  there  are  plenty  in  some 
other  directions.  For  instance,  Colonel  Bara,  Chief  of  the  War  Supply  Depart- 
ment, wants  2  percent ;  there  is  the  buyer  of  the  Republic  Provendor  General,  he 
wants  something,  too ;  and  there  is  Mr.  Armando  Frenkel,  who  is  working  with 
me  on  this  business,  and  there  is  me,  too. 

That  is  interesting,  because  the  term  "  grease  "  and  the  reference 
to  a  commission  figure  are  analogous. 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  The  next  sentence  there.  Senator,  I  don't  know 
whether  you  are  going  to  read  it,  but 

Senator  Barbour   (reading)  : 

That  is  why  the  7^2  percent  is  not  an  enormous  percentage,  as  you  seem  to 
think  it  is. 

The  71/2  percent  is  to  be  used  as  grease  ? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  You  keep  pinning  them  down,  pinning  them 
down,  trying  to  reduce  the  rate  of  commission  they  are  to  get,  and 
they  are  fighting  trying  to  build  up  the  rate  of  commission,  and  the 
higher  the  rate  of  commission  is,  the  worse  you  are  going  to  be  in 
■competition  with  European  concerns.  Now,  this  is — well,  this  does 
refer  to  the  7-millimeter  cartridge. 

Senator  Barbour.  Then  a  little  further  down — I  want  you  to  pick 
out  what  I  don't  read.  We  will  never  get  through  if  we  read  all  of 
this.     [Reading] : 

He  is  a  Mason  and  General  Martinez  is  a  Mason  too,  and  it  seems  that  Gen- 
eral Martinez  when  he  was  appointed  last  year  Minister  of  War  induced  Mr. 
Frenkel  to  get  some  connection  in  the  arms  and  ammunition  line. 

There  he  says  the  Minister  of  War  induced  Mr.  Frenkel  to  get  some 
connection  in  the  arms  and  ammunition  line. 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  And  I  would  like  to  say  right  there  that  Mr. 
Fernandez  I  do  not  believe  is  a  Mason,  so  his  references  there  do  not 
have  any  bearing  at  all. 

Senator  Barbour.  Now,  I  offer  next  a  letter  from  San  Salvador 
to  the  Winchester  Co.,  dated  November  5,  1932.  It  is  signed,  I  be- 
lieve, by  "  Garcia  ",  but  I  don't  know. 


2528  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  967  "  and  is  in- 
cluded in  the  appendix  on  p.  — .) 

Senator  Barbour.  The  part  I  have  in  mind  to  read  is  this : 

As  you  will  note,  that  order  was  reduced  to  200,000  and  placed  at  the  price 
of  $14.70  c.  i.  f.  This  is  the  same  price  that  was  quoted  by  the  three  competi- 
tors, from  that  country,  and  I  was  able  to  secure  the  order  for  you  through 
the  very  efficient  cooperation  of  Col.  Ernesto  Bara,  Chief  of  the  Department 
of  War. 

So  that  here  is  one  case  where  th^  price  was  right;  and  the  fact 
that  the  gentleman  in  Salvador  writes  to  the  Winchester  Repeating 
Arms  Co.  that  at  the  same  price  he  was  able  to  get  the  business,  and 
knew  he  was  able  to  get  the  business  because  of  the  cooperation  of 
the  Chief  of  the  Department  of  War,  and  it  follows,  I  believe,  that 
there  is  no  comment  necessary,  unless  you  say  it  does  not  mean  what 
it  says. 

Mr.  Beebe.  No  ;  except  this :  That  if  he  receives  20  cents  a  thou- 
sand, it  means  he  could  not  have  paid  very  much  graft  on  the  200,000 
cartridges.    That  is  about  $40.00  commission  for  the  transaction. 

Senator  Barbour.  That  is  one  of  the  cases  where  you  whittled 
it  down  as  much  as  you  could. 

Mr.  Beebe.  We  had  to  quote  a  low  price  on  this  business  in  com- 
petition, and  offered  him  only  20  cents  a  thousand ;  and  as  a  matter 
of  fact,  it  is  certain  that  that  is  a  very  small  commission. 

Senator  Barbour.  I  think  it  is. 

Mr.  Beebe.  If  he  paid  anything  to  anybody  else,  he  would  not 
have  made  anything  on  the  transaction. 

Senator  Barbour.  He  speaks  of  the  cooperation  he  received  from 
the  Chief  of  the  Department  of  War. 

Mr.  Beebe.  There  might  be  coopertion,  but  I  do  not  think  there 
is  any  indication  there  that  he  paid  anytliing  for  it. 

Senator  Barbour.  There  is  plenty  of  indication  in  the  other  let- 
ters which  build  up  to  that,  Mr.  Beebe. 

Mr.  Beebe.  There  may  be. 

Senator  Barbour.  I  do  not  want  to  go  all  over  that  again. 
(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  967  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2611.) 

Senator  Barbour.  The  next  letter  is  dated  March  5,  1932,  where 
there  is  mention  of  more  "  grease  ",  as  I  recall  it.  I  will  offer  that 
for  appropriate  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  968  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2612.) 

Senator  Barbour.  At  the  top  of  page  2  that  letter  states  [read- 
ing] : 

On  this  order  for  7-mm  Mauser  which  I  got  the  whole  commission  of  7^ 
percent  is  not  for  L.  G.  F. 

Who  is  L.  G.  F.  ? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  Luis  G.  Fernandez, 

Senator  Barbour  [reading]  : 

As  you  probably  know  you  have  to  "  oil "  or  "  grease "  certain  parties  in 
order  to  get  it  through.    Otherwise  you  are  out  of  luck. 

Then,  a  little  further  down,  the  letter  continues : 

You  will  be  surprised  to  note  how  things  are  here  now  as  far  as  the  compe- 
tition is  concerned.  There  are  representatives  from  Czechoslovakia,  Spain  (two 
of  them),  Belgium,  France,  and  Germany,  plus  Winchester,  and  little  me. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY  2529' 

In  Other  words,  it  links  up  very  directly,  in  my  mind,  with  the 
necessity  of  having  plenty  of  "  grease  "  ready.    [Reading :] 

Representatives  have  sprung  up  from  the  ground.  As  soon  as  I  tliink  it 
advisable  to  leave  San  Salvador  I  will  fly  to  Honduras  and  go  south  passing 
through  Costa  Rica  and  to  my  final  destination,  Panama.  I  have  not  great 
hopes  in  Costa  Rica  as  I  believe  that  there  is  not  much  doing  over  there  in  the 
way  of  securing  any  military-cartiidge  business.     I  might  be  wrong  at  that. 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN,  He  was  right. 

Senator  Barbour.  He  did  not  get  any  ? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  No,  sir. 

The  Chairman.  Were  his  activities  confined  to  the  military-cart- 
ridge business? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  The  other  day  you  were  not  here  when  I  ex- 
plained that  our  principal  activities  in  the  export  field  are  on  com- 
mercial ammunition  and  not  on  military,  and  that  is  very  clearly 
proved  by  the  very  small  percentage  of  our  business  that  is  classi- 
fied properly  as  "  military."  I  believe  94  percent  of  our  export  busi- 
ness over  the  last  10  years  is  commercial  annnunition. 

The  Chairman.  This  letter  would  lead  one  to  believe  that  this 
agent  was  looking  not  for  commercial  business  but  was  looking  alone 
for  military  cartridge  business. 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  These  agents  looking  for  commissions  will  ehase 
these  rainbows,  and  we  do  have  our  difficulties  keeping  them  in  the 
profitable  end  of  the  business,  which  is  the  commercial  end.  They 
believe  one  big  sale  on  the  military 

The  Chairman.  Is  the  commercial  end  of  the  business  as  profit- 
able to  the  salesman  as  the  military  end  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  It  is  more — if  they  would  look  at  the  profitable 
sale — more  profitable. 

The  Chairman.  But  they  do  not? 

Mr.  Monaghan,  The  trouble  is  they  are  chasing  rainbows,  and 
that  is  the  trouble,  keeping  them  down  to  the  regular  routine  of  the 
commercial  sale. 

The  Chairman.  Is  it  not  proper  to  assume  that  they  are  finding 
the  military  business  more  profitable  than  they  do  the  commercial 
business  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  No,  sir ;  I  do  not  think  so.  You  can  check  up  the 
military  sales,  all  we  made,  such  as  with  Fernandez,  and  find  the 
commercial  end  far  more  remunerative  than  the  other.  They  do  not 
sit  down  and  analyze  it,  but  are  intrigued  by  the  military  end  of  it 
and  think  they  are  effecting  a  big  sale,  a  big  deal. 

Senator  Barbour.  Mr.  Monaghan,  this  business  you  referred  to  of 
representatives  from  Czechoslovakia,  Spain,  et  cetera,  is  not  that  an 
unusual  situation  in  such  a  small  place? 

What  do  you  speak  of  in  connection  with  such  things?  We  are 
wondering  about  the  stimulation  of  sales,  in  other  words. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  No,  sir;  I  do  not  think  so.  They  would  be 
attracted  bj^  the  fact  that  there  was  a  prospect  of  the  countries  buy- 
ing. In  our  own  experience  we  would  send  s<inu'one  to  the  market  or 
direct  our  agents'  attention  to  the  business,  through  it  having  reached 
us  first  that  that  nation  was  in  the  market  and  Avanted  to  buy,  rather 
than  going  around  and  trying  to  foist  any  ammunition  on  them. 

Senator  Barbour.  I  was  wondering  Avhether  the  whole  adminis- 
tration in  a  country  under  those  circumstances  could,  not  be  cor- 
rupted, to  put  it  baldly.     Is  not  that  likely  to  occur? 


2530  MUNITIONS    INDIJSTEY 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  I  do  not  believe  it  is;  not  under  our  method  of 
doing  business,  at  least. 

Senator  Barbour.  No;  I  do  not  attribute  it  to  you  people  here. 
What  I  am  trying  to  get  at  is,  what  is  the  situation  there,  and  Avhat 
is  the  business  all  about? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  Where  you  get  as  many  people  as  this  competing 
for  business  in  a  small  country,  such  as  we  have  before  us,  you  have 
got  to  get  the  price  down  so  low  that  there  is  not  much  in  it  for 
anybody,  and  particularly  I  mean  the  man  that  gets  the  order 
eventually. 

Senator  Barbour.  Here  is  a  letter  which  may  throw  some  light  on 
this,  and  it  may  not.  It  is  under  date  of  April  25,  1932.  to  the 
Remington  Arms  Co.,  also  being  from  Fernandez.  I  will  offer  that 
for  appropriate  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  969"  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2613.) 

Senator  Barbour.  The  first  paragraph  of  that  letter  reads  as 
follows : 

I  wish  to  confiim  my  letter  to  you  dated  the  16th  instant.  You  will  probably 
have  received  the  order  for  Rentas  from  Mr.  Armando  Frankel  and  probably 
you  will  have  received  advices  from  the  bank  that  the  outstnnding  draft  has 
been  paid.  As  you  perfectly  know  I  sold  that  merchandise  sometime  last  year, 
at  the  old  list  prices.  There  was  an  average  of  10  percent  for  Mr.  Lemus  at 
that  time,  the  Proveedor  General  del  Gobierno.  Since  Mr.  Lemus  has  been 
kicked  out  we  do  not  liave  to  pay  him  up. 

In  other  words,  as  I  gather  this,  when  the  order  was  placed,  there 
was  10  percent  in  it  for  Mr.  Lemus,  and  at  that  time  he  was  the 
Proveedor  General  del  Gobierno,  but  since  that  time  he  has  got  "  the 
air  ",  as  far  as  the  position  of  Proveedor  General  del  Gobierno  is 
concerned,  and  he  does  not  have  to  get  the  10  percent.    Is  that  right? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  The  original  letter,  I  very  clearly  recall  looking 
at  the  other  day,  and  there  was  a  notation  in  the  right  margin  of  it 
alongside  the  paragraph,  "  Nothing  doing  ";  and  he  did  not  get  any- 
thing because  there  was  not  any  such  understanding  with  anybody. 

Senator  Barbour.  It  w^as  not  because  he  was  kicked  out? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  No,  sir;  there  was  no  understanding  in  any  way 
with  anyone  down  there  getting  10  percent  overage,  commission,  or 
anything  else,  on  this  order. 

Senator  Barbour.  On  page  no.  2  there  is  reference  to  a  man  by 
the  name  of  Brooke  [reading]  : 

very  wealthy  and   influential.     He  always  gets  permits  because  he  advances 
money  to  public  officials  ;  including  the  President  himself. 

That  is  rather  a  startling  statement.  I  know  that  you  are  not 
responsible  for  it,  but  did  it  surprise  you  when  you  got  it,  or  did  you 
make  any  inquiry  about  it,  or  did  you  take  it  as  a  matter  of  course? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Ver}^  interesting  reading.  We  never  had  any 
relation  witli  this  Mr.  Brooke  other  than  the  report  Avhich  you  have 
read  here,  and  never  had  anything  more  to  do  Avith  him. 

The  Chairman.  Do  you  believe  that  this  agent  know^s  what  he  is 
talking  about? 

Senator  Barbour.  He  seems  to  have  many  names  in  mind. 

The  Chairman.  I  ask  the  question  quite  seriously :  Do  you  think 
that  this  agent  loiows  what  he  is  talking  about  when  he  reports 
what  somebody  else  is  doing? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2531 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  That  is  a  pretty  hard  thing  to  do,  to  report  on 
what  somebody  else  is  doing  and  report  on  all  the  facts,  Senator? 
Do  you  not  think  so  ? 

Senator  Barbour.  He  is  your  source  of  information  for  these 
things  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  The  source  of  information  for  the  point  indicated 
in  the  letter.     That  is  all. 

Mr.  WoHLTORTH.  Mr.  Monaghan,  you  know  Mr.  Fernandez  pretty 
well,  do  you  not? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  WoHLFORTH.  You  have  pretty  good  trust  in  him,  in  the  way 
he  handled  these  business  matters  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Mr.  Fernandez  is  no  longer  with  us,  and  has  not 
been  with  us  for  a  year  and  and  some  months. 

Senator  Clark.  How  did  he  happen  to  quit  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  We  decided  to  make  a  change  in  the  method  of 
selling  in  the  markets  which  he  covered  for  us. 

Senator  Barbour.  Would  that  change,  in  your  opinion,  interest  the 
committee  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  No,  sir ;  I  think  not. 

Senator  Barbour.  To  read  on  a  bit  in  the  letter  [reading]  : 

I  asked  Mr.  Ochoa  the  Minister  of  War  in  a  very  diplomatic  way  wlio  was 
the  persona  grata  with  him  and  the  President  for  Government  business  and 
he  sent  me  over  to  Mr.  Cornelio  Zamora  of  the  firm  of  Zamora,  Henriquez  & 
Co.  It  seems  that  this  firm  is  now  doing  all  the  Government  business,  and 
they  split  with  the  officials  the  commission   and  overages;   etc. 

That  is  a  very  clear-cut  and  direct  businesslike  statement  of  just 
what  is  going  on. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  We  never  had  any  business  dealings  through  this 
firm  of  Zamora,  Henriquez  &  Co. 

Senator  Barbour.  Do  you  really  think  that  is  a  true  statement  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  We  never  had  any  business,  and  I  do  not  know 
beyond  this  statement  in  the  letter. 

Senator  Barbour.  Now  we  pass  to  another  letter,  Mr.  Chairman, 
which  I  think  illustrates  to  what  lengths  salesmen  have  to  go  in 
order  to  make  sales.    I  will  offer  it  as  "  Exhibit  No.  970." 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  970"  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2614.) 

Senator  Barbour.  I  am  referring  to  a  letter  of  April  7,  1932,  also 
by  Fernandez  to  the  Remington  Arms  Co.,  and  I  will  pass  to  the 
second  page  [reading] : 

The  order  was  put  through  the  consul  of  the  National  Guard,  and  has  been 
decided,  etc.,  etc.  We  only  need  the  signature  of  General  Llanos,  the  head  of 
the  Guardia  Nacional.  Yesterday  we  talked  to  him,  and  he  informed  us  not 
to  worry,  as  the  order  is  ours.  No  matter  what  the  competition  say  or  holler. 
They  are  discounting  10  colones  every  month  from  each  soldier  of  the  Guardia 
(750),  making  a  total  of  7.500  colones  every  month  to  pay  for  the  pistols  and 
the  ammunition.  They  are  depositing  these  amounts  in  a  bank  in  a  joint 
account  Armando  Frankel-Guardia  Nacional.  You  see.  these  pistols  have  to  be 
shipped  from  Germany  and  the  cartridges  from  New  York.  It  does  not  matter 
how  soon  you  will  receive  the  order,  as  it  will  have  to  be  held  up  at  your 
office  until  Mr.  Frankel  advises  you  to  ship,  so  that  the  cartridges  would  arrive 
more  or  less  about  the  same  time  as  the  pistols.  By  the  time  that  the  pistols 
are  ready  there  will  be  enough  money  in  the  bank  to  pay  for  the  cartridge^,  and 
Mr.  Frankel  will  see  to  it  that  you  get  your  monev  "first,  as  he  has  agreed 
with  me. 


2532  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Now,  it  seems  to  me  that  I  have  never  heard  of  a  case  wherein 
these  poor  soldiers  themselves  are  fined  in  order  to  pay  for  an  order 
of  shells.  Apparently  there  was  money  enough  to  buy  the  pistols  but 
not  money  enough  to  buy  the  cartridges. 

Is  this  a  new  departure  or  has  that  been  a  common  thing?  Have 
any  of  you  gentlemen  heard  of  that  before  ? 

Mr.  Beebe.  I  can  say  this:  that  I  do  not  know  whether  it  was 
when  I  was  in  Mexico,  somebody  talked  with  me  about  it,  or  whether 
there  was  some  correspondence,  but  I  understand  that  some  of  these 
officers  have  to  buy  their  own  pistols  and  their  own  cartridges,  and 
they  have  not  enough  money  to  buy  one  outright  and  put  up  the 
money,  but  arrange  to  have  so  much  taken  out  of  their  pay  each 
month,  which  is  done  for  other  things  in  this  country. 

Senator  Barbour.  That  is,  each  soldier  of  the  guard  ? 

Mr.  Beebe.  I  do  not  know  whether  the  soldier  has  the  pistols  or 
not. 

Senator  Barbour.  What  does  10  colones  amount  to  in  depreciated 
American  money? 

Mr.  Jonas.  About  $2. 

Senator  Barbour.  A  moment  ago  wei  mentioned  the  probable  effect 
of  this  type  of  competition.  Here  is  a  letter  of  July  6,  1934,  from 
F.  S.  Jonas  to  the  Remington  Arms  Co.,  a  very  long  letter,  which  I 
will  offer  for  appropriate  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  971 "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2616.) 

Senator  Barbour.  I  will  read  the  last  paragraph  first,  if  I  may 
[reading] : 

The  Salvador  Government  would  not  give  me  permission  to  take  the  sample 
rifle  to  Guatemala ;  however,  they  consented  to  my  taking  it  to  the  other 
Central  American  Republics,  but  I  had  to  agree  to  return  it,  as  it  was  shipped 
to  them  gratis  and  has  been  entered  on  the  Government  records.  Evidently 
they  are  not  on  very  friendly  terms  with  Guatemala,  and  as  soon  as  there  is 
a  rumor  that  Guatemala  has  made  a  purchase  they  do  likewise. 

That  refers,  Mr.  Chairman,  to  something  that  I  mentioned,  and 
undoubtedly  others  have  mentioned  at  the  very  beginning  of  the 
hearing,  about  a  sale  in  one  instance  immediately  stimulating  a  sale 
in  another  instance. 

Is  there  any  comment  you  would  like  to  make  on  that?  There  are 
a  number  of  other  passages  which  I  have  marked  in  this  letter. 

The  Chairman.  I  suggest.  Senator,  if  they  have  relation  to  this 
very  important  subject,  that  those  passages  be  read  in  their  entirety. 

Senator  Barbour.  It  does  not  directly,  Mr.  Chairman. 

Mr.  MoNAGiiAN.  There  were  no  sales  made  of  that  rifle. 

Senator  Barbour.  That  is  a  7-millimeter  Remington,  is  it  not? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Yes,  sir.  It  was  some  time  ago,  because  our 
agent  down  there  said  they  were  interested  in  them,  but  there  was 
no  sale  made  to  either  Salvador  or  Guatemala. 

Mr.  WoHLFORTH.  You  made  sales  to  other  countries  of  that  same 
rifle  down  there,  did  you  not? 

Mr.  Monaghais'.  We  made  a  sale  to  Honduras.  That  was  the  first 
sale  of  a  military  rifle  that  we  had  made  since  the  World  War. 

Senator  Barbour.  That  is  the  point  I  was  really  going  to  come  to. 

The  Chairman.  What  is  the  date  of  this? 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2533 

Senator  Barbour.  The  date  of  this  is  July  6,  1934,  and  the  rifle 
was  a  single-shot  rifle,  was  it  not? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  No,  sir;  it  is  a  repeating  five-shot  bolt-action  and 
not  automatic. 

Senator  Barbour.  I  guess  that  is  what  they  mean  by  referring  to 
it  as  single-shot  once  or  twice  in  the  letter. 

Now,  on  page  3,  the  third  paragraph  [reading] : 

This  Government  has  a  stock  of  over  3,000  new  model  1901,  7-mm  Remington 
single-shot  rifles  and  4,000  11-mm  rifles. 

That  is  not  the  one? 

Mr.  Mo^AGHAN.  No,  sir.  That  is  an  old  rifle,  the  best  I  could  find 
out  from  delving  into  memory  and  our  records,  probably  purchased 
around  1900. 

Senator  Barbour.  In  the  next  letter  further  light  is  shed,  as  I  see 
it,  on  this  competitive  situation,  and  I  am  referring  to  a  letter  under 
date  of  July  3,  1934,  attention  of  Mr.  Monaghan,  from  F.  S.  Jonas 
again.    I  will  offer  that  for  appropriate  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  972  "  and  is  in- 
cluded in  the  appendix  on  p.  2619.) 

Senator  Barbour.  I  will  read  the  last  two  paragraphs  on  page  1 
[reading]  : 

They  are  very  mucli  interested  in  purchasing  a  50-caliber  Colt  machine  gun. 
I  was  not  sure  of  the  price,  so  quoted  approximately  $1,500.  Please  ask  them 
to  send  me  particulars  and  also  prices  on  their  7-mm  auto  rifles. 

Automatic  rifles,  is  that  right? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Barbour  (continuing  reading)  : 

They  want  to  standardize  their  ammunition  to  this  caliber  only. 

I  am  told  that  they  have  no  money  and  then  again  it  is  said  for  army  equip- 
ment, somehow  or  other,  they  are  always  able  to  raise  the  money.  I  have 
not  learned  of  any  large  purchases  they  have  made,  except  150  reconditioned 
7-mm  Maxims,  which  were  purchased  in  Europe. 

It  is  rumored  that  the  only  way  that  this  President  can  hold  his  job  is 
through  being  well  prepared,  so  I  have  hopes  of  the  various  rainbows  coming 
through. 

We  realize  you  are  not  responsible  for  that  observation,  or  your 
company,  but  what  interests  the  committee,  as  I  see  it,  is  the  fact 
that  he  makes  a  report  to  you,  and,  whatever  you  want  to  say  about 
the  reports,  they  are  humorous  as  well  as  interesting,  and  interesting 
as  well  as  humorous,  but  he  does  say  that  the  President  can  hold 
his  position  only  "  through  being  well-prepared,  so  I  have  hopes  of 
the  various  rainbows  coming  through." 

The  rainbows,  I  suppose,  refer  to  a  lot  of  "  greased  "  orders? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Orders,  without  the  adjective.  I  would  like 
to  say  also.  Senator,  on  this  matter  of  the  Colt  machine  gun,  we 
do  not  make  it.  Nothing  was  done  about  that.  We  spoke  to  Colt 
about  it,  and  they  stated  at  that  time  they  had  an  agent  down  there, 
and  any  business  that  was  done  would  be  done  through  their  agent. 

Senator  Barbour.  Mr.  Davis,  does  your  company  deal  in  manu- 
factured machine  guns  at  all  ? 

Mr.  Davis.  No,  sir. 

Senator  Barbour.  The  next  exhibit  is  a  contract,  and  I  do  not 
believe  there  is  any  need  to  read  the  preamble,  because  it  is  the  usual 


2534  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

preamble  between  a  company  and  a  government.  The  interesting 
thing  about  it,  as  I  can  see  it,  is  what  the  contract  calls  for. 

I  will  offer  that  for  apropriate  number. 

(The  contract  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  973  "  and 
is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2620.) 

Senator  Barbour.  I  notice  that  there  are — 

3,000  "  Remington  Enfield  "  rifles,  model  1934,  caliber  7  mm,  without 
bayonets,  but  with  sling  straps,  $26  per  rifle,  c.i.f.  Amapala,  total 

price $78,000' 

(Pencil  note)  caliber  7  mm. 

1,000,000  cartridges  "  Kleanbore  Smokeless  ",  $23  per  thousand,  c.i.f. 
Amapala,   total  price 23,  000 

50,000  cartridge  clips  7  mm,  $10  per  thousand  c.i.f.  Amapala,  tdtal 

price 500 

200,000  cartridges,  .45  caliber  Colt  automatic  "  Kleanbore  Smokeless  " 
for  Thompson  machine  guns,  $16  per  thousand,  c.i.f.  Amapala, 
total  price 3,  200- 

500  Thompson  machine  guns,  21-A,  $140  each,  f.o.b.  New  York,  total 
price 7,000' 

Now,  this  is  a  contract  with  Remington,  and  it  does  cover  machine 
guns.  It  is  for  machine  guns  which  they  sold  but  did  not  make. 
Is  that  the  idea  ? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  Those  guns  were  sold  to  the  Government  merely  as 
a  courtesy.  The  Government  paid  us  the  identical  sum  for  those 
guns  that  we  paid  the  Thompson  people  for  them.  It  is  one  of  the 
very  unusual  cases  we  have  ever  had  of  such  a  transaction.  But  here 
was  Jonas  down  there  negotiating  this  order.  They  asked  him  to 
put  in  the  machine  guns  with  the  order  at  the  same  time,  and  we  did 
so  as  a  courtesy  merely.    We  did  not  make  a  cent  on  them  anyway. 

Senator  Clark.  Jonas  also  represents  a  gas  company  down  there, 
does  he  not? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Clark.  And  they  were  the  agents  for  the  Thompson  sub- 
machine guns? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Davis.  It  is  not  my  understanding  that  he  represents  anyone- 
but  Remington. 

Senator  Clark.  He  testified  at  the  last  hearing  that  he  did. 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  After  reading  the  testimony  when  he  was  here,, 
we  did  realize  he  did  some  work  for  the  other  company.  We  were 
not  aware  of  that  when  he  went  on  the  mission. 

The  Chairman.  You  were  not  aware  that  he  was  a  representative 
of  Federal  Laboratories? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  That  he  was  to  do  anything  for  them  in  any  way. 
He  was  on  a  salary  trip  for  us  and  was  not  doing  anything  except 
work  for  us. 

Mr.  Handy.  That  was  our  definite  understanding  with  him. 

The  Chairman.  On  this  specific  trip? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  Also  the  trip  before  that,  when  he  went  down  to- 
Brazil  and  Argentine  for  us  on  commercial  business  for  those 
countries. 

The  Chairman.  Is  he  down  there  now? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  He  is  in  Puerto  Rico  now. 

The  Chairman.  In  whose  employ  is  he  now? 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2535 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  In  our  employ. 

Senator  Barbour.  I  do  not  want  to  split  hairs,  Mr.  Chairman,  but 
in  the  contract  it  states: 

Whereas  Remington  is  a  manufacturer  of  and  dealer  in  arms  and  ammuni- 
tion of  the  type  and  kind  referred  to 

And  so  forth,  and  so  forth,  and  Thompson  machine  guns  is  one  of 
the  items  referred  to  in  that  categorly.  Personally,  I  am  willing  to 
take  your  explanation  of  it,  but  in  your  preamble  there  it  would,  of 
course,  be  misleading  for  you  to  state  that  you  are  a  manufacturer 
of  guns. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  The  wording  of  that  contract  followed  the  plac- 
ing of  the  order.  That  was  the  reason  for  the  "  dealer  in."  I 
IDointed  out  to  the  man  drawing  up  the  agreement  up  here  that  we 
were  not  manufacturers  of  these  Thompson  machine  guns,  and  we 
only  handled  it  as  a  courtesy  for  the  Government.  That  was  the 
reason  for  that  wording  going  in  there.  We  do  not  make  a  prac- 
tice, as  I  said  before,  of  dealing  in  anj^thing  except  what  we 
manufacture  ourselves. 

Senator  Barbour.  Did  you  get  the  export  license  for  the  whole 
thing,  Thompson  guns  and  so  forth? 

Mr.  Moxaghax.  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Barbour.  Was  that  explained  at  the  time  you  got  the 
license  for  the  export  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  I  do  not  believe  there  was  any  question  in  the 
application  form,  where  it  was  necessary  to  go  into  that  detail. 

Senator  Barbour.  Mr.  Chairman,  here  is  another  letter  from  Mr. 
Fernandez,  dated  June  10,  1931,  which  I  offer  for  appropriate 
number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  974"  and  is  in- 
cluded in  the  appendix  on  p.  2622.) 

Senator  Barbour.  That  reads : 

Pursuant  to  the  conversation  I  had  with  you  upon  my  arrival  to  New  York  2 
weeks  ago,  I  wish  to  inform  you  that  the  extra  5  percent  charged  to  take  care 
of  certain  party  in  Tegucigalpa  as  agreed  by  the  writer,  part  of  the  total 
amount  of  .$740.25  has  already  been  paid  up  to  Mr.  Francisco  Argueta  of  San 
Salvador.  This  Mr.  Argueta  received  instructions  to  receive  this  amount  from 
Coronel  Villanueva  or  the  party  who  was  interested  in  Tegucigalpa.  I  effected 
a  payment  of  $300  to  Mr.  Argueta  in  San  Salvador,  when  you  cabled  me  the 
$500.  Before  I  left  San  Salvador  I  handed  Mr.  Argueta  the  amount  of  $150 
making  it  a  total  of  $450.  Two  days  ago  I  received  the  attached  cable  from 
Mr.  Francisco  Argueta  (Chico)  as  everybody  nicknames  him,  requesting  of  me 
to  turn  over  some  funds  to  a  friend  of  his  here  in  New  York.  Today  I  will 
hand  this  party  here  in  New  York  the  sum  of  $75  and  as  you  have  arranged 
that  this  amount  be  turned  over  to  us,  I  wish  to  report  that  as  soon  as  the 
balance  of  the  amount  is  turned  over  to  me,  I  will  remit  to  Mr.  Francisco 
Argueta  a  bank's  check  for  the  balance  of  $215.25,  thus  completing  this 
transaction. 

I  further  state  that  this  is  my  understanding  that  Mr.  Argueta  is  a  relative 
of  residing  in  San  Salvador  of  the  party  in  Tegucigalpa,  Honduras. 

What  I  want  to  show  is  that  $500  was  cabled  to  Fernandez,  and 
with  the  additional  amount  of  $240.25,  $740.25  was  paid  to  him  for 
what,  except  to  give  to  these  different  people  who  are  cited  here; 
and  who  were  they?  If  that  is  not  what  it  is,  what  does  the  trans- 
action cover?  You  have  got  the  letter  there.  Do  you  know  what 
it  all  means  ? 

83876— 35— PT  11 10 


2536  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  I  would  like  to  explain  it.  I  have  a  very  complete 
file  on  that,  and  if  you  will  let  me  go  into  it,  it  will  show  you  an 
entirely  different  picture  than  this  letter,  standing  out  by  itself. 

Senator  Barbour.  That  is  just  what  we  want  to  know  about.  By 
the  way,  I  should  have  mentioned  that  this  gentleman,  whose  name 
begins  with  V,  is  a  colonel.  However,  you  are  going  to  tell  us  about 
it,  and  we  would  be  glad  to  have  you  do  so  in  your  own  way. 

Mr.  WoHLFORTH.  Mr.  Monaghan,  will  you  look  for  a  letter  dated 
April  20,  1931? 

Senator  Barbour.  Let  me  say  again,  Mr.  Monaghan,  that  it  was  a 
letter  dated  April  20,  written  by  yourself  to  Mr.  Fernandez  that  we 
are  interested  in.     Do  you  recall  any  such  letter? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  I  have  heard  from  numerous  sources  about  there 
being  such  a  letter,  but  I  cannot  find  it.  I  would  like  to  say  here 
that  here  is  a  letter  from  Fernandez  with  a  rubber  stamp  on  it  that 
looks  like  April  20.  It  is  April  29,  if  you  will  look  closely;  I 
believe  that  is  the  letter  they  mean. 

Mr.  WoHLFORTH.  That  letter  we  refer  to  was  the  one  dated  April 
20  from  you  to  Mr.  Fernandez,  and  it  was  supposed  to  explain  the 
contents  of  this  letter  under  discussion.  I  do  not  know  whether 
such  a  letter  exists,  but  we  heard  about  it. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Would  you  give  me  some  more  information  on  it, 
and  let  me  help  you  find  that  letter? 

Senator  Barbour.  Is  Mr.  Fernandez  in  New  York  now? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  I  believe  so;  yes,  sir. 

Senator  Barbour.  Have  you  been  in  communication  with  him 
recently  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Yes,  sir.  He  called  me  up  on  the  phone  when  the 
investigators  of  your  committee  called  on  him  the  first  time. 

Senator  Barbour.  Did  you  refer  to  this  particular  letter  that  the 
investigators  were  trying  to  locate? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  He  asked  me  to  tell  him  what  that  letter  was, 
that  the  investigators  had  asked  about  it,  and  he  could  not  find  it 
in  his  file.     He  said,  "  Will  you  look  in  yours  ?  " 

I  said,  «  Yes,  I  will." 

I  looked  it  up,  and  that  is  how  I  came  across  this  letter  here  that 
looks  as  though  it  might  be  April  20  and  had  misled  somebody, 
when  on  close  inspection  you  will  find  it  reads  "April  29."  He  in- 
sisted there  was  such  a  letter  of  April  20,  and  I  told  him  I  could 
not  find  any,  and  he  could  not  find  it  either. 

Mr.  WoHLFORTH.  Did  Mr.  Fernandez  call  you  or  did  you  call  Mr. 
Fernandez  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Mr.  Fernandez  called  me.  He  asked  me  what  to 
do.  I  said,  "  There  is  only  one  thing  you  can  do,  it  is  the  same  thing 
we  are  doing,  give  the  investigators  everything  you  have  and  tell 
them  everything  you  know." 

Mr.  WoHLFORTH.  Is  that  the  substance  of  your  conversation  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Barbour.  To  get  back  to  this  letter  of  the  10th,  can  you 
give  us  any  more  information  with  relation  to  these  expenditures  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Yes,  sir ;  I  think  I  can.  There  is  quite  a  volumi- 
nous file  on  that  order.  We  have  a  letter  here  to  Fernandez  dated 
April  29 : 

Since  writing  yon  our  other  letters  enclosed,  we  received  yours,  dated 
Toojnx'igalpa,  dated  April  25,  with  the  order  for  the  Honduras  Government. 


I 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2537 

You  have  a  copy  of  that  letter.  This  letter  relates  to  the  fact 
that  "  we  are  going  to  make  a  shipment  within  a  few  clays  of  a  cer- 
tain part  of  that  order ",  and  the  money  was  received  about  that 
time,  April  29.  What  I  am  pointing  to  is  that  this  letter  here  of 
June  10  that  you  speak  of,  of  the  payment  of  $740,  was  subsequent 
to  our  having  received  the  order  from  Fernandez,  and  the  money 
being  received  or  the  credit  being  opened  in  the  bank  in  New  York — 
I  forget  which — covering  that  order.  The  letter  of  June  10,  being 
subsequent  to  the  whole  transaction  so  far  as  the  order  and  the  pay- 
ments are  concerned,  was  something  that  occurred  after  the  sale  had 
been  completed,  and  was  our  first  knowledge  that  there  was  any  such 
sum  involved  as  this  $740. 

Senator  Barbour.  He  says  at  the  bottom  of  the  letter  there,  at  the 
■very  end,  "  I  received  the  sum  of  $740.25  in  payments  as  noted."  In 
'Other  words,  he  got  the  money  all  right. 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  Yes,  sir.  It  was  paid  to  Mr.  Fernandez.  He  said 
he  paid  it  out  in  accordance  with  this  letter  here  that  he  wrote  out. 
So  when  we  gave  him  the  $740.25,  we  got  his  receipt  for  that  money 
as  noted  on  the  bottom  of  the  letter. 

Senator  Babbour.  Yes. 

Mr.  WoHLFORTH.  Did  you  give  Mr.  Fernandez  instructions  as  to 
liow  or  to  whom  to  pay  that  money? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  No,  sir.  The  first  indication  or  intimation  we  had 
'of  any  money  such  as  this  being  paid  out  on  this  order  was  at  the 
itime  Mr.  Fernandez  came  into  our  office  and  asked  for  this  $740  and 
substantiated  his  request  by  this  letter.  We  do  not  know,  and  did 
not  then  know  who  Col.  Villa  de  Nueva  is,  whether  he  is  a  Kentucky 
colonel  or  a  South  American  colonel. 

Mr.  WoHLFORTH.  You  have  seen  the  name  before  you  saw  it  in 
this  letter,  have  you  not? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  No,  sir;  I  did  not. 

Senator  Barbour.  Is  there  anything  further  you  want  to  ask  about 
that?  It  simply  is  not  at  all  clear  to  me.  It  is  an  amount  which  I 
think  has  gone  to  those  different  people. 

In  the  meantime  we  will  get  along,  because  we  have  a  great  many 
more  exhibits. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Senator,  might  I  say  there  that  we  have  never 
iiad  any  real  information  about  what  this  letter  is  of  April  20,  on 
which  so  much  stress  seems  to  be  placed.  I  do  believe  that  it  arose 
from  that  rubber  stamp  on  there  that  looks  like  April  20,  and  is 
really  April  29.    Here  is  the  letter  of  April  29. 

Senator  Barbour.  I  know,  of  course,  nothing  about  it  at  all,  simply 
that  that  report  comes  to  me  from  the  investigators,  that  there  was 
some  discussion  there  and  I  wanted  to  run  it  down,  because  your 
explanation  may  be  the  true  one,  although  the  report,  as  I  get  it,  was 
that  there  was  a  letter  from  you  to  Fernandez  and  not  a  letter  from 
I^'ernandez  to  you. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  There  was  no  such  letter,  Senator. 

METHODS  or  DOING  BUSINESS — DOMINICAN  REPUBmC 

Senator  Barbour.  We  have  the  next  letter,  which  is  dated  Decem- 
ber 22,  from  Mr,  Monaghan  to  Mr.  Norvell,  who  was  then  president 
•of  the  Remington  Arms  Co.,  I  believe. 


2538  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  975  ",  and  is  in- 
cluded in  the  appendix  on  p.  2622.) 

Senator  Barbour.  It  refers  to  a  certain  action  taken  by  Mr.  Mon- 
aghan  relating  to  the  stopping  of  a  foreign  order  to  the  Dominican 
Republic. 

We  have  recently  had  an  example  of  how  the  United  States  Department  of 
State  at  Washington,  D.  C,  can  help  us. 

Skipping  the  second  paragraph,  I  will  read  the  third : 

When  we  approached  the  State  Department  they  admitted  knowing  some- 
thing of  the  deal  but  were  glad  to  get  the  additional  information  we  had  ob- 
tained. They  sent  a  copy  of  our  letter  giving  the  full  facts  to  our  minister 
at  Santo  Domingo.  They  are  willing  to  shut  their  eyes  to  small  graft  on  such 
transactions  in  Latin  American  countries  but  they  felt  this  was  going  too  far 
especially  as  the  Dominican  Republic  still  has  a  lot  of  unsettled  American 
claims.  Our  agent,  who  knows  nothing  of  our  dealings  with  the  State  Depart- 
ment, which  have  to  be  strictly  confidential,  now  reports  the  President  of  the 
Dominican  Republic  called  for  an  investigation  with  the  result  the  contract  for 
the  .303  rifles  and  cartridges  has  been  canceled  and  the  first  installment  is  to 
be  shipped  back.  Our  chances  of  regaining  the  business  are,  therefore,  very 
bright  for  the  President  has  issued  an  order  that  in  future  all  purchases  are 
to  be  made  direct  from  manufacturers. 

Is  this  the  only  cooperation  of  the  kind  that  you  received  from 
our  State  Department,  Mr.  Monaghan,  or  have  you  gotten  it  before  ? 
How  much  graft  is  the  State  Department  willing  to  shut  its  eyes  to  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  This  was  a  communication  from  me  to  the  presi- 
dent of  our  company. 

Senator  Barbour.  To  the  president  of  the  company  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  To  the  president  of  our  company. 

Senator  Barbour.  From  you? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  And  I  did  believe  that  we  were  doing  something' 
worthwhile  in  attempting  to  get  the  business  of  the  Dominican  Re- 
public for  newly  manufactured  arms  or  ammunition,  which  would 
help  American  workmen  here,  instead  of  selling  the  war  stuff  that 
was  offered  at  this  time  by  some  concern  in  England  or  Germany, 
I  forget  which — England  or  Hamburg. 

Senator  Barbour.  England,  I  think.     I  think  we  have  that. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  I  am  not  sure. 

Senator  Barbour.  I  am  referring  to  the  cooperation  that  you  got 
from  the  State  Department  and  their  knowledge  of  graft,  and  their 
not  minding  it  up  to  a  certain  point. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Certainly  it  was  not  a  State  Department  state- 
ment. It  was  an  individual  that  I  knew  in  the  State  Department. 
Perhaps  we  talked  of  it  in  passing,  not  as  an  official  statement 
from  him — certainly  I  did  not  consider  it  that  way ;  I  went  there,  I 
believe,  at  the  time  to  talk  to  him  about  Cuba,  having  been  down 
there.  I  discussed  things  in  Cuba,  and  discussed  this  matter  of 
Santo  Domingo.  Naturally,  in  the  course  of  such  a  conversation 
some  little  personal  remark  would  slip  out,  which  was  responsible 
for  this  statement  of  mine. 

Senator  Barbour.  You  make  a  very  clear  statement  to  your  presi- 
dent in  your  letter.  While  I  do  not  want  to  overemphasize  this,  it 
certainly  gave  me  the  impression  that  the  State  Department  was  cog- 
nizant that  there  had  to  be  a  certain  amount  of  graft,  and  up  to  a 
certain  point  they  had  no  objection  to  it. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2539 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  No ;  I  do  not  think  that  is  the  proper  conclusion 
to  draw  from  this  letter  of  mine,  because  I  have  never  had  any  such 
official  statement  from  the  State  Department. 

Senator  Barbour.  There  may  be  honest  differences  of  opinion,  but 
they,  as  the  State  Department — 

are  willing  to  shut  their  eyes  to  small  graft   on   such  transactions  in  Latin 
American  countries,  but  they  felt  that  this  was  going  too  far. 

The  Chairman.  Whom  do  you  contact  in  the  State  Department 
in  matters  of  that  kind? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  On  that  occasion  I  think  it  was  Mr.  S.  W. 
Morgan. 

The  Chairman.  That  was  back  in  1928? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  1928. 

Mr.  WoHLFORTH.  Mr.  Monaghan,  is  this  just  a  chance  conversa- 
tion that  you  had  about  this  Dominican  order  with  the  State  Depart- 
ment? 

Mr,  Monaghan.  No.  What  I  said  was  a  chance  remark,  perhaps, 
of  his,  but  it  was  not  a  chance  talk  with  him  of  the  thing.  I  related 
the  facts  to  him  in  quite  some  detail,  of  this  attempt  to  sell  the  war- 
time stocks  from  Europe. 

Senator  Barbour.  It  is  one  thing  in  the  statement  you  write,  and 
in  sense  is  another? 

Senator  Clark.  Wliat  did  you  mean  to  say  by  that  statement  in 
the  letter,  Mr.  Monaghan,  if  you  did  not  mean  to  say  what  it  sounds 
like,  when  you  say : 

They  are  willing  to  shut  their  eyes  to  small  graft  on  such  transactions  in 
Latin  American  countries  but  they  felt  this  was  going  too  far,  especially  as  the 
Dominican  Republic  still  has  a  lot  of  unsettled  American  claims. 

That  seems  to  be  a  perfectly  clear  statement.  If  it  does  not  mean 
what  Senator  Barbour  said  it  meant,  what  does  it  mean? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  I  certainly  do  not  believe  the  State  Department 
in  any  dealings  I  have  had  with  them  would  indicate  they  would 
make  such  a  bald  official  statement,  that  they  would  countenance  any 
small  graft. 

Senator  Clark.  You  wrote  this  letter,  did  you  not  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Clark.  Just  explain  to  the  committee  what  you  did  mean 
when  you  said — 

They  are  willing  to  shut  their  eyes  to  small  graft  cm  such  transactions  in 
Latin  American  countries,  but  they  felt  this  was  going  too  far. 

That  does  not  seem  to  be  susceptible  of  more  than  one  interpre- 
tation.    Just  what  did  you  mean  by  it? 

Mr.  Monaghan,  Perhaps  the  comparison  of  the  thing.  I  believe 
at  that  time  those  rifles  to  the  best  of  my  memory  were,  oh,  around 
$50  to  $G0,  say,  and  they  were  obtainable  in  Europe  for  about  $10, 
which  would  make  anyone  laugh  that  knows  anything  of  the  business 
of  selling  manufactured  items,  to  pay  a  price  of  $10  in  one  market 
and  resell  the  same  item  in  another  for  $50  or  $60. 

Senator  Clark.  Did  anybody  in  the  State  Department  tell  you 
that  they  were  willing  to  shut  their  eyes  to  small  graft  on  such 
transactions? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  I  said  I  did  not  look  at  it  as  an  official  attitude 
of  the  State  Department,  no. 


2540  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Senator  Clark.  Here  is  the  whole  paragraph  again,  Mr, 
Monaghan : 

When  we  approached  the  State  Department  they  admitted  knowins  something 
of  the  deal  but  were  glad  to  get  tlie  additional  information  we  had  obtained. 
They  sent  a  copy  of  our  letter  giA'in;;  the  full  facts  to  our  ^Minister  at  Santo- 
Domingo. 

That  was  an  official  action  of  the  State  Department. 

They  are  willing  to  shut  their  eyes  to  small  graft  on  such  transacfons  in 
Latin  American  countries  but  they  felt  this  wasf  going  too  far,  especially  as 
the  Dominican  Republic  still  has  a  lot  of  unsettled  American  claims. 

What  was  it  that  was  going  too  far? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Buying  an  item  at  one  price,  of  $10,  and  selling  it 
for  $50  oi-  $60. 

Senat(jr  Clark.  Did  they  give  you  any  idea  of  the  size  of  graft 
the3^  were  willinj.'-  to  shut  their  eyes  to,  and  where  they  drew  the  line 
when  you  ste|)])e<l  over  from  the  small  graft  category  into  the  situ- 
ation where  they  were  going  too  far? 

Mr.  MoNAGH.' X.  Perhaps  when  you  go  back  and  take  that  one 
little  word  "  graft  "  there 

Senator  Clark.  That  is  a  word  of  rather  large  significance,  I  think, 
in  this  transaction,  Mr.  Monaghan.  It  has  not  very  many  letters  in 
it,  but  it  is  of  considerable  significance  in  what  we  are  getting  at. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Perhaps  the  impression  was  more  to  the  effect 
that  if  there  were  a  commission,  a  small  commission  above  that  price 
of  $10  for  those  rifles,  they  could  not  say  anything,  but  when  it  be- 
came such  an  <>utrageous  difference  as  from  10  to  50  or  60  dollars, 
certainly  then  it  would  not  come  into  the  class  of  commissions. 

Senator  Clark.  In  other  words,  they  are  willing  to  condone  petty 
larceny  but  not  grand  larceny? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Oh,  no;  I  "do  not  think  that. 

Senator  Clark.  This  apparently  is  another  one  of  those  instances 
such  as  we  had  tlie  other  day,  Mr.  Monaghan,  wdiere  you  want  to 
delete  some  of  the  words  froin  your  oAvn  letters. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Every  man  when  he  writes  a  letter  and  reads 
it  over  again  the  next  day  would  change  it,  he  would  not  leave  it  in 
its  entirety. 

Senator  Barbour.  Unless  somebody  else  wants  to  pursue  the  same 
subject,  that  covers  all  of  it. 

The  Chairman.  We  are  getting  nowhere  so  fast  on  that  I  think 
that  we  might  well  leave  it. 

Senator  Barbour.  That  brings  us  to  a  letter  of  April  17  to  Mr. 
Monaghan  from  Smith  &  Wesson.  I  offer  it  in  evidence  because  it 
refers  to  the  contribution  made  by  the  Remington  Arms  Co.  to  a 
political  campaign  in  Santo  Domingo. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  976 "'.  and 
appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Barbour  (reading)  : 

We  are  just  in  receipt  of  a  wire  from  P>ro.  Nicolas,  reading: 
"Party  asking  campaign  contribution  $1,00(>,  ready  contribute  $500.  expect- 
ing secure  balance  from  Eilis,  Remington,  Philadelphia,  Fisch,  and  yourselves 
$100  each,  cable  acceptance  to  send  sight  draft.     Thanks." 

The  Chairman.  To  what  country  does  it  relate  ? 
Mr.  Monaghan.  Dominican  Republic. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2541 

Senator  Barbour   (reading)  : 

Presumablj'  you  have  had  a  similar  message. 

Before  replying  we  shouhl  like  to  know  what  your  reaction  is  to  the  some- 
what strange  appeal. 

Hitherto  we  have  spent  nothing  in  advertising  in  Santo  Domingo,  and  if 
Bro.  Nicolas  is  lucky  enough  to  put  his  money  on  the  right  horse,  I  should 
think  that  the  proposed  $100  investment  should  be  a  good  one.  In  my  varied 
associations  with  Latin  Americans  I  have  had  some  curious  propositions,  but 
never  one  to  contribute  to  any  political  campaign  fund. 

According  to  the  last  cables  that  I  saw,  they  propose  to  run  Morales,  for- 
merly the  Minister  at  Washington,  for  vice  president,  though  at  one  time  he 
was  scheduled  for  the  premier  post. 

What  are  your  latest  advices? 

Whilst  we  haven't  any  $100  bills  growing  in  the  back  yard,  I  am  inclined  to 
recommend  that  we  make  the  contribution  without  delay. 

Please  be  good  enough  to  reply  by  return  mail,  using  the  enclosed  stamped- 
addressed  envelope. 

You  got  this  letter,  Mr.  Monaghan,  from  Mr.  Bungey? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Barbour.  You  recall  the  incident? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Yes,  sir;  I  do. 

Senator  Barbour.  What  did  you  do  about  it? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  We  were  in  the  same  position  as  he  expresses  it 
there — ^that  this  is  the  first  time  he  has  had  any  proposal  to  con- 
tribute to  a  political  campaign  fund.  Dr.  Morales,  that  he  speaks 
of,  the  former  Minister  at  Washington,  some  of  us  in  the  company 
knew  personally.  I  did.  We  credited  Mr.  Nicolas'  account 
with  that  $100  more  as  a  personal  matter  than  as  a  business  one. 
Certainly  we  never  expected  a  $100  contribution  to  get  us  very  far. 

Senator  Barbour.  What  do  you  mean  b}'  that,  that  you  would 
have  to  come  higher  than  that  to  be  effective  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  As  I  say,  it  was  the  first  time  we  have  had  any 
occasion  to  contribute  to  a  political  campaign  fund  such  as  Nicolas 
proposes  here,  and  he  kept  pressing  us  to  make  this  contribution. 
We  did  do  it. 

Senator  Barbour.  It  is  not  a  practice  of  munitions  concerns  to 
make  political  campaign  contributions? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  No,  sir;  it  is  not.  It  is  the  only  one  that  I 
know  of. 

Senator  Barbour.  Mr.  Davis,  do  you  know  of  any  other? 

Mr.  Davis.  I  do  not.  I  think  this  was  before  the  acquisition  of 
the  Eemington  Arms  Co.  by  the  du  Pont  Co.  It  is  certainly  not 
our  policy  to  make  any  campaign  contributions,  either  here  or 
abroad. 

Senator  Barbour.  It  is  a  fact  the  contribution  was  made.  Mr. 
Chairman.  And  by  the  next  exhibit,  which  is  a  letter  from  Nicolas 
under  date  of  June  17,  it  seems  that  the  candidate  Morales  was  not 
elected. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  977  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  page  2623.) 

Senator  Barbour  (reading)  : 

As  per  my  letter  of  last  mail,  which  you  will  surely  receive  together  with  this 
mail,  as  it  could  not  be  placed  in  the  mails  until  after  the  steamer  had  left, 
you  will  be  advised  that  the  permit  situation  is  the  same,  maybe  worse  at 
present  because  the  Army  is  now  after  a  few  generals  that  took  the  mountains 
against  the  actual  government.  No  permits  will  be  issued  to  anybody  while 
peace  and  tranquility  are  unstable. 


2542  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Tiie  reason  for  my  mail  not  getting  the  last  boat  was  that  a  few  minutes  after 
it  was  written,  I  was  induced  to  hide  l)y  some  friends  who  knew  in  advance 
that  the  order  to  imprison  me  had  been  given  by  Government  ofBcials.  On 
Wednesday  noon,  after  communicating  with  the  general,  I  gave  myself  up  and 
was  locked  in  Columbus  place  at  the  Torre  del  Homenajo,  for  48  "hours,  after 
which  I  was  released.  The  reason  for  my  prosecution  has  been  given  as  "  For 
being  a  friend  of  Dr.  Morales  and  selling  arms  and  ammunition  to  the  revolu- 
tion." This  chai-ge  was  made  by  some  competitors  interested  in  wiping  me  out 
of  the  map  and  taking  any  agencies  away,  both  of  wiiich  things  they  will  be 
unable  to  do. 

At  the  latter  part  of  the  next  paragraph : 

I  also  informed  him  that  I  am  no  politician  and  that  my  business  was  to 
work  and  sell  everybody  that  came  in  power,  and  that  he  will  find  me  ready  to 
cooperate  with  him  to  that  end. 

Senator  Pope.  He  bet  on  the  wrong  horse  that  time,  did  he  not  ? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  I  would  like  to  sny  this,  Senator,  that  he  did  not 
sell  any  cartridges  or  arms  of  ours  to  any  revolution  down  there  that 
I  know  of. 

Mr.  WoHLFORTH.  Did  Mr.  Morales  ever  visit  your  factory  in 
Bridgeport? 

Mr,  MoNAGHAN.  No,  sir;  I  do  not  think  he  did. 

Mr.  WoHLFORTH.  You  did  not  ever  sell  him  direct? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  No;  we  did  not. 

Senator  Barbour.  In  the  next  letter  offered  in  evidence  we  have 
a  breach  of  etiquette,  according  to  the  munitions  companies'  stand- 
ards, apparently. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  978  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  page  2623.) 

Senator  Barbour.  This  letter  is  dated  June  10,  1932,  from  Mr. 
Monaghan  to  Mr.  Nicolas,  and  the  committee  after  hearing  the  previ- 
ous testimony  appreciates  Mr.  Monaghan's  concern  as  expressed  in 
the  last  paragraph.  I  think  that  is  all  we  need  read,  unless  Mr. 
Monaghan  wants  anything  else. 

It  is  rather  interesting  to  learn  from  your  letter  that  Mr.  Naramore  is  wear- 
ing the  uniform  of  a  captain  of  the  United  States  Army.  This,  to  say  the  least, 
is  a  serious  breach  of  etiquette  and  perhaps  a  more  serious  charge  could  be 
brought.  It  is  our  understanding  an  officer  of  the  Army  is  not  supposed  to  wear 
the  uniform  except  on  active  duty  or  state  occasions.  Certainly  Mr.  Naramoi-e 
is  not  entitled  to  wear  the  uniform  when  i-epresenting  the  Lyman  Gunsight 
Corporation,  which  was  the  case  when  he  was  in  Santa  Domingo. 

The  Chairman,  "What  was  the  occasion  for  that  letter  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  I  understood  Mr.  Naramore  was  down  there — I 
do  not  know  the  full  details  of  it,  he  never  told  me — on  some  mis- 
sion for  the  Dominican  Republic  in  the  way  of  reloading  cartridges. 
I  did  not  believe,  partly  selfishly  from  a  business  standpoint,  and 
also  in  the  interests  of  the  Government,  that  it  was  wise  for  a  gov- 
ernment like  that  to  try  to  reload  ammunition,  and  eventually  have 
cartridges  that  w^ould  have  excessive  breech  pressures,  and  in  fact  the 
qualities  be  so  poor  in  every  manner  that  they  would  not  be  suitable 
for  use. 

The  Chairman.  Who  was  Naramore? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  He  was  employed  l)y  the  Lyman  Gunsight  Cor- 
poration. 

The  Chairman.  Had  he  been  in  the  service  of  the  Army  or  the 
Navy? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2543 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  I  do  not  know. 

The  Chairman.  How  did  he  come  into  possession  of  a  uniform  of 
a  captain  of  the  United  States  Army  ? 

Senator  Barbour.  That  was  the  question  that  I  had  in  mind. 

Mr,  Monaghan.  He  is  known  as  Captain  Naramore.  I  believe  it 
is  Captain  Naramore. 

Mr.  Beebe.  I  understand  so. 

Senator  Clark.  Do  you  happen  to  know%  Mr.  Monaghan,  whether 
the  Department  has  any  regulation  or  order  on  the  subject  of  muni- 
tions salesmen  wearing  Reserve  officers'  uniforms? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  What  I  stated  that  I  have  found  out  about  it  is 
all  incorporated  in  that  paragraph,  that  I  did  not  believe  it  was 
proper  for  him  to  do  so. 

Senator  Clark.  I  do  not  think  it  was  proper  for  him  to  do  so, 
either,  but  so  far  as  I  have  been  able  to  find,  there  is  no  Army  regu- 
lation or  order  of  the  AVar  Department  against  it.  At  the  last  hear- 
ings here  in  September,  we  had  one  instance  of  a  poison-gas  concern 
which  put  out  a  very  elaborate  catalog  with  pictures  of  all  of  its 
principal  officers  in  uniform  as  Reserve  officers  in  the  United  States 
Army.  The  president  of  the  company  was  in  the  habit  of  writing 
letters  to  South  American  countries  offering  to  establish  poison-gas 
plants  for  them  and  train  a  chemical  w^arfare  service,  and  of  signing 
himself  "  Lieutenant  colonel,  U.  S.  A.  Reserves."  I  was  just  wonder- 
ing if  you  have  been  able  to  find  any  regulation  against  such  prac- 
tices as  that. 

Senator  Barbour.  Are  you  through,  Senator? 

Senator  Clark.  Yes. 

The  Chairman.  Did  you  investigate  this  matter  any  further? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  No,  sir. 

METHODS  of  DOING   BUSINESS COLOMBIA 

Senator  Barbour.  Leaving  Central  American  republics  for  a 
moment,  let  us  turn  to  South  America,  Remington  sold  Colombia 
a  large  order  of  ammunition  in  1932,  and  this  order  was  secured 
by  your  agent  Restrepo.  We  understand  that  you  had  what  your 
firm  termed  "  unfortunate  publicity  "  in  connection  with  this  order. 
Anyway,  I  will  read  from  your  letter  to  Mr.  Roger  L.  Bracken  of 
October  27,  1932. 

I  am  very  glad  to  confirm  the  good  news  Restrepo  sent  yon.  He  is  certainly 
doing  a  wonderful  job  for  us  and  the  way  he  is  taking  hold  of  things  the  last 
few  months  has  simply  been  a  revelation  to  me.  I  don't  think  I  ever  had  a  man 
in  the  foi'eign  field  who  kept  us  so  informed  of  the  complete  picture  of  things 
as  they  were  happening.  Yes.  indeed,  you  were  due  for  thanks  in  having 
trained  him  and  recommended  him  to  us. 

We  had  some  unfortunate  publicity  in  connection  with  the  Colombian  order 
and  for  that  reason  we  are  now  doing  mighty  little  talking  about  it,  so  we  ask 
you  to  hold  it  confidential. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  979",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2624.) 

Senator  Barbour.  Now,  what  was  the  nature  of  that  publicity  arid 
what  was  there  that  you  did  not  want  to  become  public  or  otherwise,, 
to  do  anything  or  say  anything,  to  help  the  committee  understand 
the  paragraph  there,  which  might  have  a  great  deal  of  significance? 


2544  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  We  attempted  at  all  times  to  keep  confidential 
any  orders  that  we  received  from  a  foreign  government,  and  in  some 
manner  the  New  York  Times  published  around  that  time  the  in- 
formation that  we  had  received  this  order  from  Colombia  for  car- 
tridges, and  there  was  quite  a  stir  by  Colombia  about  it  getting  out 
that  way.    They  felt  we  should  have  held  it  more  confidential. 

The  Chairman.  From  whom  do  you  keep  those  things  confi- 
dential ?     Everyone  ? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  The  publicity  that  they  objected  to  was  that  it 
was  pul\lished  in  the  press. 

The  Chairman.  How  could  you  keep  a  thing  like  that  secret? 
Surely  the  shipping  records  would  show  what  you  were  shipping 
down  there,  wouldn't  they? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  But  it  was  not  necessary  perhaps  for  us  to  make 
the  statement.  I  believe  the  president  of  our  company  made  the 
statement  that  we  had  received  this  order.  It  was  not  kept  confi- 
dential in  every  respect.    The  State  Department  knew  of  this  order. 

Senator  Barbour.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  the  publicity  to  which  you 
refer  was  simply  ordinary  newspaper  publicity? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Correct. 

Senator  Barbour.  And  for  trade  reasons  or  otherwise  you  do  not 
want  any  newspaper  publicity? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  That  is  another  reason ;  we  would  not  want  our 
competitors  to  know  about  it. 

Senator  Barbour.  I  say,  you  would  not  want  them  to  know. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  No. 

Senator  Barbour.  I  do  not  want  to  say  the  wrong  thing,  but  you 
feel  the  munitions  business  should  be  kept  as  secret  as  possible,  as  far 
as  the  press  is  concerned,  and  the  public  ?    Do  you  agree  with  that  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  I  believe  our  relations  should  be  that  way  and  the 
business  we  get  should  not  necessarily  be  spread  in  the  public  press. 

Senator  Barbour.  I  am  not  sajdng  that  I  agree  with  you  or  dis- 
agree with  you. 

Mr,  Monaghan.  That  is  our  feeling. 

Senator  Barbour.  I  just  want  to  get  clear  the  fact  that  that  is  the 
sort  of  thing  you  refer  to. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  When  it  gets  in  the  press  it  hurts  not  only  the 
munitions  business  of  this  country,  but  it  hurts  all  export  business 
of  this  country. 

The  Chairman.  Is  that  why  there  comes  from  your  industry  so 
much  objection  to  international  plans  for  providing  greater  publicity 
for  the  traffic  in  arms  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  I  do  not  know  of  anyone  in  our  companj^  who  has 
ever  objected  to  publicity  in  the  international  sense  of  ever}^  govern- 
ment participating  in  it,  but  that  has  not  become  an  established  fact 
as  yet.  If  and  when  it  does,  certainly  there  would  be  no  objections 
on  our  part  to  it,  so  far  as  I  know. 

Senator  Barbour.  Here  is  a  letter,  Mr.  Chairman,  from  Koger  L. 
Bracken,  export  manager  of  Miller  Falls  Company,  to  George 
Rugge,  dated  October  25,  1932. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  980  "  and  ap- 
pears in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Barbour.  I  read  the  first  paragraph : 


MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY  2545 

In  a  letter  just  received  from  our  good  friend,  Resti*epo,  I  understand  he  has 
sent  through  to  you  a  contract  for  $70,000,  wliich  is  the  result  of  a  great  deal 
of  effort  on  his  part  and,  I  understand,  at  the  outlay  of  some  personal  funds 
in  lobbying  work  with  certain  Government  departments. 

I  will  finish  the  letter : 

As  I  was  responsible,  in  a  sense,  for  getting  your  agency  for  Restrepo,  I  feel 
a  personal  satisfaction  in  getting  this  report  from  him.  In  these  difficult  days, 
such  a  conti-act  I  am  confident  must  be  exceedingly  welcome  and  I  um  excep- 
tionally glad  to  note  this  evidence  that  Rep  is  apparently  cashing  in,  and  I 
hope  he  will  continue  to  merit  your  confidence. 

With  kindest  personal  regards, 
Cordially  yours. 

Who  is  Millers  Falls  Co.? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  Perhaps  I  can  give  you  in  a  minute  the  whole 
story  there.  You  see,  this  letter  preceded  the  one  you  just  read  that 
I  wrote. 

Senator  Barbour.  I  see. 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  Mr.  Restrepo  had  been  employed  by  Millers  Falls, 
New  York,  and  then  went  to  Colombia  as  their  representative,  and 
ours,  and  other  companies,  working  on  a  commission  basis. 

Senator  Barbour.  I  see.    That  is  October  25  and  this  is  October  27. 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  Yes. 

The  Chairman.  Mr.  Monaghan,  did  jou  say  that  this  letter  of 
October  27,  previously  read,  was  an  answer  to  this  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  I  believe  so.    Was  it  not,  Senator  ? 

Senator  Barbour.  Yes ;  I  think  it  is. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  This  is  October  25.  The  one  read  just  previ- 
ously is  the  27th. 

Senator  Barbour.  The  27th;  yes. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  And  it  acknowledges  the  one  on  the  25th. 

The  Chairman.  You  say  nothing  in  your  acknowledgment  there 
of  the  suggestion  that  was  made  about  Mr.  Restrepo  having  made 
an  outlay  for  lobbying  work.  Why  did  you  avoid  in  your  acknowl- 
edgment saying  anything  about  that? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  I  knew  nothing  of  what  he  meant  there.  I  never 
saw  the  letter  to  the  Millers  Falls  Co.  that  he  refere  to.  I  never  asked 
any  questions. 

Senator  Barbour.  Did  he  get  any  money  for  any  such  purpose  or 
was  he  reimbursed  for  anything  in  that  connection? 

Mr.  MoNAGi-iAN.  On  this  contract  here  of  the  3,000,000  cartridges 
he  received  his  commission.  He  did  not  receive  any  money  for  out- 
lay of  personal  funds  in  lobby  work.     I  know  of  none  that  he  did. 

Senator  Barbour.  He  speaks  of  it  here. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Well,  I  don't  know  what  he  wrote  Bracken. 

Senator  Barbour.  But  you  are  or  were  conversant  with  what  he 
said  in  his  letter.  This  is  one  of  those  cases  where  the  letter  reads 
perfectly  clear,  it  seems  to  me,  and  yet  we  do  not  have  the  same 
understanding  of  it  when  we  discuss  it. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  No;  I  did  not  feel  there  was  anything  we  owed 
him  for  any  money  that  he  should  write  to  Millers  Falls.  If  there 
was,  he  should  write  directly  to  us. 

Mr.  WoHLFORTH.  You  mean,  you  did  not  know  anything  about 
what  he  was  doing  down  there  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Mr.  Wohlforth,  I  did  know^  some  things  about 
what  he  was  doing,  because  I  went  down  there  to  Colombia  in  the 


2546  MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 

first  part  of  1933,  and  I  did  not  find  any  evidence  there  of  any  lobby- 
ing work  on  his  part. 

The  Chairman.  There  was  the  highest  order  of  approval  of  the 
man,  of  what  he  was  doing  down  there,  wasn't  there  ? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  Yes. 

Senator  Barbour.  Now,  go  back  a  little.  Here  is  a  letter  dated 
September  10,  1932,  about  the  time  the  order  was  being  negotiated 
and  Colombia  was  in  arms  against  Peru,  which  I  offer  for  appropri- 
ate marking. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  981 ",.  and  is  in- 
cluded in  the  appendix  on  p.  2625.) 

Senator  Barbour.  I  will  read  beginning  with  the  third  paragraph  r 

Coroiiel  Curios  Padilla,  about  whom  I  wrote  you  some  time  ago,  is  a  very  close- 
friend  of  the  writer  as  well  as  his  family ;  they  live  next  door  to  my  home.. 
This  gentleman  occupies  now  a  high  position  in  the  Colombian  Army  and  be- 
longs to  the  Estado  Mayor  del  Ejercito.  In  the  strictest  confidence  Coronel 
Padilla  infoiined  me  the  Government  wants  to  buy  at  the  present  time  2  million 
cartridges  and  informed  me  about  the  quotation  they  have  from  Switzerland  of 
$22.  These  cartridges  are  intended  for  part  of  the  army  that  is  being  sent  to> 
Puerto  Leticia  on  the  Amazon  River,  our  frontier  with  Peru. 

Going  to  the  bottom,  to  save  time  : 

However,  ths  Government  is  taking  the  necessary  measures  in  order  to  pro- 
tect our  national  integrity. 

Coronel  P;idi!la  put  me  in  contact  with  Coronel  Adelrao  A.  Ruiz — ; 

And  then,  down  further — 

Coronel  Padilla  is  giving  me  his  iull  support  in  order  to  get  the  business 
and  is  keeping  me  confidentially  informed  of  this  matter.  Indirectly  I  under- 
stand he  wants  a  comniLssiun.  however,  I  may  be  wrong  and  am  keeping  a 
very  diidomatic  attitude  until  further  developments.  This  gentleman  also 
informs  me  he  is  doing  his  best  in  order  to  induce  this  Government  to  buy 
40  million  cartridges. 

Then  at  the  wind-up  he  says : 

Kindly  destroy  same  as  this  request  was  made  to  the  writer  by  the  War 
Department. 

Senator  Clark.  Who  is  that  signed  by,  Senator? 

Mr.  MoxAGHAN.  Restrepo. 

Senator  Barbour.  That  is  from  Restrepo  to  the  Remington  Arms 
Co.,  marked,  "  Confidential." 

Did  this  Government  official  receive  any  commission? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  No,  sir. 

Senator  Barbour.  I  am  w^ondering  why  he  worked  for  so  large 
an  order  all  of  a  sudden  without  any  hope  of  compensation. 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  There  never  transpired  any  such  order  Avith  us 
for  40  million  cartridges.  The  only  order  we  received  of  a  big 
item  at  one  time  was  the  3  million,  and  I  saw  Colonel  Padilla  down 
there.  I  established  the  fact  that  he  was  a  next  door  neighbor  and 
friend  of  Restrepo.  I  also  met  Colonel  Ruiz.  I  also  was  very  pleas- 
antly surprised  to  learn  when  I  got  there  that  Colonel  Padilla  had 
visited  our  })lant  some  years  before  as  a  member  of  a  Colombian 
commission  that  came  up  here,  and  he  was  ajipreciative,  as  he  told 
me,  of  the  courtesies  that  we  showed  him  at  our  ])lant.  He  thought 
well  of  our  ammunition,  and  being  a  friend  of  Restrepo  naturally 
he  would  try  to  get  him  the  business. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2547 

Senator  Barbour.  Well,  I  must  say  in  this  letter  there  seems  to 
be  some  doubt  about  the  necessity  of  a  special  commission,  whereas 
in  some  of  the  others  it  has  been  a  very  direct  statement. 

Going  back  further  again,  we  have  a  letter  of  November  12,  1930, 
from  Mr.  Monaghan  to  Mr.  Restrepo,  which  I  will  ask  to  have 
marked  with  the  appropriate  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  982  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2626.) 

Senator  Barbour.  I  read  the  third  from  the  last  paragraph  on 
the  second  page : 

You  will  probably  desire  to  bring  every  influence  you  can  to  bear  to  obtain 
this  business  for  us,  and  as  a  suggestion  we  should  like  to  mention  that  in 
some  instances  we  have  found  it  advisable  to  diplomatic;! lly  ask  the  Minister 
of  War  or  tlie  person  who  will  have  the  final  say  in  placing  the  order  who  he 
would  like  to  have  us  work  witli  as  our  agent.  In  other  words,  who  is  the 
intermediary  to  see  and  pay  commission  f(n-  the  business.  Such  commission, 
as  we  mentioned  before,  would  have  to  be  added  to  the  prices  we  have  given 
you. 

After  giving  these  instructions,  would  it  not  seem  to  follow  that 
your  agent  woidd  pay  to  the  Government  official  placing  the  order 
part  of  his  commission? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  That  is  not  the  intention  of  that  at  all.  Restrepo 
had  never  had  any  dealings  on  Government  business  and  we  were 
trying  to  tell  him  how  to  operate.  The  point  was  we  did  not  want 
to  have  an  agent  for  military  business  Avho  was  i)ersona  non  grata 
with  the  Minister  of  War  or  the  people  with  whom  he  was  dealing. 

Senator  Barbour.  You  do  not  think  then  that  the  authority  mak- 
ing the  purchase  got  any  graft? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Pardon  me? 

Senator  Barbour.  You  do  not  think  then  that  the  authority  who 
had  the  final  say  as  far  as  the  purchasing  is  concerned  got  any 
graft  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  No,  sir ;  I  do  not. 

The  Chairman,  You  had  found  in  other  proceedings  that  is  was 
to  your  advantage  to  have  someone  who  could  stand  between  you 
and  the  minister  of  war,  or  whoever  was  buying  the  supplies,  didn't 
you? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  The  thought  is  there  that  we  do  not  have  enough 
business  to  econmically  have  our  own  salaried  representatives  in 
every  market  watching  developments  as  they  occur  and  the  possi- 
bility of  obtaining  business,  and  we  wanted  someone  who  was  es- 
tablished in  that  market  operating  on  a  commission  basis  and  who 
could  watch  the  situation  and  get  the  business  for  us,  if  possible. 

The  Chairman.  But  you  were  finding  it  "  advisable  to  diplo- 
matically ask  the  Minister  of  War  or  the  person  who  would  have 
the  final  say  in  placing  the  order  whom  he  would  like  to  have  us 
work  with  as  our  agent." 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Correct. 

The  Chairman.  So  you  were  leaving  it  to  the  Minister  of  War 
or  to  the  agent  of  the  Government  who  was  buying  the  supplies 
to  say  whom  your  agent  should  be. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Oh,  no ;  not  that. 

The  Chairman.  Then  what  does  that  mean  ? 


2548  MUNITIONS    INDUSTET 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  It  means  that  we  wanted  a  man  who  could  deal 
with  the  Minister  of  War  and  who  the  Minister  of  War  had  con- 
fidence in. 

The  Chairman,  Yes;  but  you  are  not  even  going  to  suggest  who 
that  agent  might  be.  You  are  going  to  leave  it  to  the  Minister  of 
War. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  At  that  time  we  did  not  know  the  available 
agents  on  military  business  in  Bogota,  Colombia. 

The  Chaikman.  And  the  Minister  of  War  did,  is  that  the  idea? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  He  would  know  the  people  through  whom  he 
had  been  purchasing  material  representing  other  companies.  We 
did  not  want  him  to  choose  some  man  who  was  one  of  the  outs 
instead  of  one  of  the  ins. 

The  Chairman.  In  your  letter  to  Restrepo  you  go  on  and  say : 

In  other  words,  who  is  the  intermediary  to  see  and  pay  commission  for 
the  business  V  Such  commission  as  we  mentioned  before  would  have  to  be 
added  to  the  prices  we  have  given  you. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  It  has  gotten  to  be  the  general  practice  on  any 
military  business  to  establish  the  price  that  the  manufacturer  has 
to  get  and  then  allow  the  commission  agent  to  add  to  that  his  com- 
mission, so  as  to  stop  the  squabbling  that  would  go  on  of  stating  a 
definite  price  that  would  include,  say,  some  particular  rate  of 
commission. 

The  Chairman.  That  is  hardly  the  issue  that  was  involved  here, 
though.  Here  you  are  trying  to  ascertain  or  have  ascertained  who 
is  the  intermediary  to  have  and  pay  a  commission  for  the  business, 
an  intermediary  who  is  going  to  be  suggested  or  approved  by  the 
Minister  of  War.  Now,  does  it  mean  just  this:  That  in  some  in- 
stances 3^ou  found  a  minister  of  war  ready  to  do  business,  if  and 
when  he  could  have  a  cut  in  the  commission  that  accrued  to  that 
sale,  and  you  are  suggesting  here  to  Restrepo  that  he  should  find, 
diplomatically,  who  it  was  who  would  stand  properly  with  the 
Minister  of  War  and  just  what  commission  should  be  paid  for  the 
business,  isn't  that  true  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  No,  sir;  it  does  not  read  that  way. 

The  Chairman.  Well,  now,  tell  us  what  in  the  world  this  language 
means,  then?     I  am  going  to  read  the  entire  paragraph: 

You  will  probably  desire  to  bring  every  influence  you  can  to  bear  to  obtain 
this  business  for  us.  and  as  a  suggestion  we  should  like  to  mention  that  in  some 
instances  we  have  found  it  advisable  to  diplomatically  ask  the  Minister  of  War 
or  the  person  who  will  have  the  final  say  in  placing  the  order,  who  he  would 
like  to  have  us  work  with  as  our  agent.  In  otlier  words,  who  is  the  inter- 
mediary to  see  and  pay  commission  for  the  business.  Such  commission  as  we 
mentioned  before  would  have  to  be  added  to  tlie  prices  we  have  given  you. 

What  does  that  mean  if  it  does  not  mean  just  exactly  what  it  says? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Let  me  explain  to  you  what  happened  when  I 
went  down  to  Colombia  myself.  Restrepo  got  this  military  order 
for  us,  but  we  were  not  quite  satisfied  with  him  continuing  as  a  mili- 
tary agent  for  us.  In  fact,  his  contract  originally  provided  for  him 
to  act  on  commercial  business  and  not  on  military.  In  this  transac- 
tion, the  way  it  developed,  we  did  recognize  him  as  the  agent  in  the 
transaction. 

When  I  got  to  Bogota  and  talked  with  the  Minister  of  War  on 
various  things,  I  found  him  one  of  the  highest  type  men  you  could 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2549 

meet  anywhere,  I  found  that  Restrepo,  for  example,  was  not  with 
that  minister  in  power  the  right  man  to,  in  my  opinion,  transact  any 
further  business  for  us.  I  then  obtained  another  agent,  Samper, 
who  socially  was  better  connected  to  be  able  to  talk  properly  with 
the  Minister  of  War  there  than  Restrepo  was ;  and  in  saying  that  I 
want  to  make  very  plain  there  was  no  thought,  in  getting  Samper, 
that  there  was  any  payment  beyond  Samper  to  the  Minister  of  War. 
When  I  made  those  arrangements  with  Samper  I  stated  to  him  the 
base  price  that  we  would  expect  for  our  cartridges  and  left  it  to  him 
to  add  any  commission,  if  he  could,  to  that,  and  had  in  mind,  of 
course,  a  reasonable  commission,  and  it  has  always  been  such  on 
some  small  business  we  have  obtained. 

The  Chairman.  Would  Restrepo  consent  to  any  plan  that  might 
deprive  him  of  his  commission? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  His  contract  with  us  was  on  commercial  ammuni- 
tion and  not  on  military. 

The  Chairman.  Did  he  never  sell  any  military  ammunition? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  After  that  he  did  not. 

METHODS  OF  DOING  BUSINESS — ARGENTINA 

Senator  Barbour.  The  next  exhibit  is  a  letter  from  the  Remington 
agents  in  Buenos  Aires,  Palmer  &  Co.,  dated  August  22,  1933,  which 
I  will  ask  to  have  marked  with  the  appropriate  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  983  "  and  is  in- 
cluded in  the  appendix  on  p.  2627.) 

Senator  Barbour.  I  would  like  to  begin  reading  at  the  bottom  of 
page  1. 

Rifle  model  33  was  formerly  priced  at  $3.30  each.  Mr.  Werns  would  like  to 
get  this  price  on  order  1193.  If,  however,  this  is  impossible  it  is  understood 
that  you  will  bill  at  $3.80,  which  is  the  price  according  to  list  no.  14,  that  is  to 
say,  these  rifles  should  be  billed,  at  all  events,  at  the  prices  prevailing  before 
you  sent  your  cable  of  the  19th,  and  this  applies  to  the  model  34  also. 

Now,  this  is  the  interesting  part  [continues  reading] : 

With  reference  to  the  packing  of  the  three  model  34's  in  each  shipment,  please 
put  them  in  boxes  such  as  are  used  for  the  model  33,  so  that  the  customhouse 
inspector  will  not  notice  any  difference  at  all  in  the  boxes  when  the  cases  are 
opened.  Furthermore,  please  put  the  boxes  which  contain  the  model  34's  right 
in  the  center  of  the  case,  that  is  the  center  from  side  to  side  and  also  the  center 
from  top  to  bottom.  If  these  instructions  are  all  carefully  followed  it  will  be 
very  bad  luck  indeed  if  the  customhouse  inspector  discovers  that  there  are 
some  repeating  rifles  in  this  shipment.  Mr.  "Werns  is  not  only  anxious  to  save 
the  additional  duties  on  repeating  rifles,  but  even  more  he  wishes  to  avoid  the 
delays  incident  to  the  entry  of  repeating  caliber  22  rifles.  Strictly  speaking, 
repeating  rifles  of  any  caliber  should  not  come  into  the  country  at  all. 

Then,  the  last  paragraph  [reading]  : 

In  one  of  the  paragraphs  above  we  have  been  rather  explicit  about  the  pack- 
ing of  the  rifles  for  Mr.  Werns  and  we  have  done  so  because  of  what  happened 
in  connection  with  a  recent  shipment  for  Gonzales  &  Russell.  In  our  letter  of 
June  6  we  asked  you  to  pack  the  caliber  44's  in  the  center  of  the  cases,  and 
your  letter  of  June  23  indicated  that  you  understood  just  what  was  wanted. 
But  apparently  the  man  who  actually  did  the  packing  did  not  understand  it  at 
all,  because  in  each  case  or  cases  (we  do  not  know  at  the  moment  how  many 
there  were)  the  small  calibers  have  been  put  around  the  outside  of  the  case 
from  top  to  bottom  and  the  44's  have  been  put  in  the  center  of  the  case  also 
from  top  to  bottom.     The  result  is  that  as  soon  as  the  top  of  the  case  is  lifted. 


2550  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

one  sees  immediately  tlie  caliber  44's,  which  is,  of  course,  just  what  we  wanted 
to  avoid.  The  customhouse  inspector  immediately  discovered  that  the  case  did 
not  contain  only  small  calibers  and  the  large  calibers  have  been  seized. 

That  is  a  letter,  as  I  have  said,  from  your  agent  in  Buenos  Aires 
to  the  Remington  Arms  Co.  in  Bridgeport,  Conn.  Now,  can  you 
explain  why  any  such  action  as  that  is  necessary? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  They  are  not  necessary  and  they  are  contrary  to 
our  policy.  That  was  not  handled  by  me.  It  was  one  of  those  rou- 
tine things  that  came  in  in  the  course  of  business.  Those  33  and  34 
rifles  are  both  .22-caliber  boys'  rifles.  The  33  rifle  is  a  single-shot 
.22-caliber  rifle.    The  34  is  a  repeating  rifle  of  the  same  caliber. 

Senator  Barbour.  Is  that  bolt  action  or  a  pump  gun  ? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  Both  bolt  action.  They  are  the  same  in  everj^ 
respect,  except  the  33  is  a  single  shot  and  the  34  is  a  repeating  type. 
The  invoices  on  that  transaction  were  made  properly,  as  34  repeat- 
ing rifles  and  not  33  single  shot  rifles.  It  is  unfortunate  that  we  did 
follow  the  instructions  of  the  agent  in  packing  the  34  rifles  in  the  33 
boxes.  It  is  contrary  to  our  policy,  as  I  told  you  before,  and  I  can 
let  you  have  photostatic  copies  of  the  invoices,  showing  that  they 
were  billed  correctly  as  34  repeating  rifles.  In  my  experience  with 
anything  going  through  a  customs,  the  invoice  is  the  governing 
document  rather  than  the  method  of  packing. 

I  am  not  trying  in  any  way  to  excuse  this.  It  is  wrong.  We  do 
not  do  it  and  we  have  not  been  doing  it.  It  is  one  of  those  things 
that  Avent  through  in  the  ordinary  course  of  business  without  being 
discovered. 

Senator  Barbour.  That  is  the  only  instance  you  know  of  or  Mr. 
Davis  knows  of. 

Mr.  Davis.  Senator,  this  occurred  about  a  month  after  I  went  with 
Remington.     It  is  a  slip  and  I  do  not  condone  any  such  action. 

Mr.  WoHLFORTH.  I  wondcr  who  did?  If  you  did  not  know  about 
it,  Mr.  Monaghan,  who  did  know  about  it? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  The  letter  was  passed  along  to  the  members  of 
the  department.  I  don't  know  whether  I  saw  it  in  passing  or  whether 
it  was  just  passed  along.  Without  any  instructions  of  what  to  do 
with  it  or  anything  else,  this  clerk  took  it  and  as  it  was  received  by 
him  without  any  advice  at  all,  he  thought  it  was  all  right  to  do  this. 

Senator  Barbour.  You  do  not  know  whether  he  got  any  benefit  in 
doing  this  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  I  don't  know. 

Mr.  WoHLFORTH.  You  make  the  model  33  and  34  in  larger  caliber? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  No,  sir;  we  do  not.  The  .22  caliber  rifle  is  the 
only  caliber  rifle  that  is  made  up  in  the  33  and  34  models. 

Mr.  WoHLFORTH.  What  about  the  44? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  The  .44  caliber  is  not  made  by  ujs  in  any  rifle  at 
the  present  time. 

METHODS  OF  DOING  BUSINESS BRAZIL 

Senator  Barbour.  Now  the  next  letter,  dated  October  21,  1929,  is 
from  Mr.  Barata,  Remington  agent  in  Brazil,  which  I  offer  for 
appropriate  marking. 

(The  document  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  984  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2629.) 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2551 

Senator  Barbour.  It  a]ipears  that  a  similar  situation  existed  in 
that  country  to  the  one  in  Mexico.  The  letter  speaks  of  a  Christmas 
list  and  a  monthly  payment  to  a  War  Department  employee. 

Mr.  Chairman,  the  names  are  so  difficult  for  me  to  recite,  I  will 
just  simply  say  that  the  letter  states: 

Last  year  Mr.  Kuhlen  distributed  Christmas  presents  amounting  to  $300 
amongst  liis  friends. 

Then  the  names  are  listed  there. 

The  amounts  spent  on  each  person  were  as  follows — 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  That  is  150  milreis.  In  our  figures  it  roughly 
means  5  or  7  cents  to  the  milrei. 

Senator  Barbour.  There  is  a  general,  a  captain,  a  colonel,  a  cap- 
tain, a  major,  a  mister,  a  consul,  a  colonel,  a  captain,  and  a  mister, 
and  they  range  all  the  way  from  150,  140,  140,  240,  240,  700,  300, 
150,  240,  to  200  milreis  apiece. 

Then  the  letter  goes  on  to  say,  Mr.  Chairman  and  gentlemen : 

The  onlj'  person  who  has  been  rendering  us  valuable  services  just  now 
has  been  Mr.  Araujo,  of  Rio.  He  has  been  giving  me  prompt  information 
about  the  applications  from  our  clients  that  arrive  at  the  War  Department. 
When  I  give  an  application  to  a  client  for  signature,  I  immediately  advise 
Araujo.  He  is  on  the  lookout  for  it  in  Rio  and  puts  it  before  the  minister 
for  dispatch  as  soon  as  it  arrives  at  the  War  Department. 

If  you  are  going  to  decide  to  discontinue  the  practice  of  giving  Christmas 
presents  to  any  Government  officials  from  Rio  as  well  as  from  S.  Paulo,  I 
think  that  you  should  make  an  exception  in  the  case  of  Mr.  Araujo.  A 
Christmas  gratification  to  him  in  addition  to  what  he  gets  every  month  will 
act  as  an  encouragement  to  his  continuing  to  give  us  his  good  services  In 
Rio. 

In  other  words,  this  party  was  on  your  pay  roll  with  a  number 
of  other  army  men — at  least  they  are  officers  of  different  rank — 
who  received — what  would  700  milreis  amount  to?     About  $400? 

Mr.  Davis.  $35  or  $40. 

Senator  Barbour.  $35  or  $40? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  $35  or  $40;  yes. 

Mr.  WoHLFORTH.  May  I  state  here.  Senator,  that  we  examined 
Mr.  Barata's  expense  account  and  learned  Mr.  Araujo  was  receiv- 
ing 330  milreis  per  month  for  14  months,  beginning  in  1929,  and 
that  Mr.  Florambel  received  2  months'  payments.     Is  that  correct? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  That  is  correct. 

Senator  Barbour.  And  his  function  was  to  give  you  prompt  in- 
formation about  the  applications  from  clients  that  arrived  at  the 
War  Department? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  The  function  of  it? 

Senator  Barbour   (reading)  : 

When  I  give  an  application  to  a  client  for  signature,  I  immediately  advise 
Araujo.  He  is  on  the  lookout  for  it  in  Rio  and  puts  it  before  the  Minister 
for  dispatch  as  soon  as  it  arrives  at  the  War  Department. 

Do  you  think  he  passed  on  any  of  the  money? 

Mr,  Monaghan.  To  the  best  of  my  knowledge,  this  Mr.  Araujo 
he  speaks  of  is  one  of  the  clerks  in  the  War  Department.  As  I 
said,  this  was  all  for  commercial  business.  We  have  a  large  com- 
mercial business  in  Brazil.  It  is  subject  to  the  same  restrictions 
as  we  spoke  of  in  some  other  countries.  Import  licenses  have  to  be 
obtained  for  rifle  cartridges  and  shotgun  cartridges,  and  all  kinds 

83876— 35— PT  11 11 


2552  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

of  red  tape.  After  those  permits  are  issued  by  the  War  Office,  they 
are  transmitted  by  cable  or  letter  to  the  consul  at  point  of  shipment.. 
We  have  to  go  through  the  routine  of  applying  to  the  consul  in 
New  York  continually  to  learn  if  the  permits  have  come  in  for  the 
orders  that  we  have  received  so  as  to  tie  them  together. 

After  we  learn  of  the  permits  being  in,  we  have  to  w^rite  a  letter 
to  the  consul  outlining  the  shipments  we  are  going  to  make  against 
the  license,  present  it  to  the  steamship  company,  before  they  will 
issue  a  shipping  permit. 

This  man  in  the  War  Office  was  essential  to  us  in  getting  the 
permits  properly  transmitted  to  the  consul  in  New  York  and  prop- 
erly itemized.  Those  items  of  cartridges  are  somewhat  compli- 
cated in  their  description,  many  different  items  of  them,  and  we  felt 
it  was  worth  our  while  really  to  pay  this  tip  to  the  man  in  the  War 
Department  to  see  that  it  was  properly  followed. 

Senator  Barbour.  Unless  there  are  some  further  questions,  that, 
is  all  on  that  matter. 

The  Chairman.  Have  you  discontinued  the  practice  of  making 
Christmas  gifts  to  these  people? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  I  believe  we  have  discontinued  the  Christmas 
gifts.  The  only  man  we  have  been  making  any  payments  to,  I 
believe  Mr.  Wohl^orth  will  verify — having  checked  into  it  and  ascer- 
tained— was  Mr.  Aran  jo. 

Mr.  WoHLFORTH.  There  is  one  other  man,  monthly  payments  for  2' 
months,  Florambel. 

Mr.  MoNAGiiAX.  I  do  not  know  just  who  he  is.  but  I  imagine  in  the- 
same  division  of  the  War  Office. 

The  Chairman.  The  general  practice  of  playing  Santa  Claus  has 
been  discontinued? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  There  have  been  very  few  cases  that  I  know  of. 
This  is  one  of  them. 

Senator  Barbour.  Mr.  Chairman,  I  am  very  glad  to  go  on.  I 
have  got  quite  a  few  left,  and  I  will  do  it  as  rapidly  as  I  can. 

(At  this  point  there  ensued  an  informal  discussion  off  the  record 
after  which  the  proceedings  were  resumed  as  follows:) 

Senator  Barbour.  I  will  go  along  as  rapidly  as  I  can,  because  L 
do  not  want  to  hold  anybody,  witnesses  or  otherwise. 

Next  is  a  letter  dated  January  31,  1930.  from  Rugge  to  Barata, 
which  I  offer  for  appropriate  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  985"  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2630.) 

Senator  Barbour.  I  will  read  the  second  paragraph  of  that  letter ; 

Your  letter  dated  January  7  confirms  the  cableg:ram  you  sent  covering  your 
visit  to  the  Rio  Embassy  in  conjunction  witli  tlie  embargo  and  detained  ship- 
ments. It  is  certainly  good  to  note  that  there  continues  to  be  prospects  of  the 
Minister  of  War  allowing  the  shipments  held  up  to  pass  into  the  hands  of  the 
consignees  and  we  hope  that  ere  this  letter  reaches  you  something  has  been 
done  in  this  regard. 

Those  prospects  with  the  Minister  of  War  must  have  been  fairly 
good,  it  seems  to  me,  if  you  have  a  man  in  the  Brazilian  department, 
as  you  say,  giving  tips  to  watch  things  for  you. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  No,  sir;  I  do  not  believe  from  what  I  know,  that 
(hat  man  would  be  able  to  do  an3^thing  for  us  in  watching  a  situa- 
tion as  mentioned  here.  This  is  after  the  permits  have  been  issued 
and  shipments  have  been  made,  some  trouble  may  arise  J  own  there, 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2553 

local  or  temporary,  and  they  immediately  embargo  everything,  even 
the  items  which  are  in  transit,  and  hold  them  in  the  customs  house 
at  the  port  of  entry.  Then  it  is  a  question  of  the  Minister  of  War 
lifting  that  embargo,  and  I  am  quite  sure  that  this  clerk  would  not 
be  of  any  assistance  to  us  that  way. 

Senator  Bakbour.  Do  you  have  anybody  who  would  be  of  assist- 
ance to  you? 

Mr.  MoNAGiiAN.  No,  sir. 

Senator  Barbour.  You  have  no  connections  in  that  respect? 

Mr.  MoNAGiiAN.  No,  sir. 

Senator  Barbour.  Sometime  in  June  1930,  Mr.  Barata  tried  to  do 
some  business  with  the  Brazilian  Government  and  considered  select- 
ing an  intermediary.  He  wrote  you  on  June  23,  1930,  a  letter,  which 
I  ask  be  appropriately  numbered. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  986  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2630.) 

Senator  Barbour.  I  will  read  from  the  bottom  of  the  first  page  of 
that  exhibit: 

I  prel'erred,  therefore,  8ome  firm  that  has  not  ouly  been  selling  to  the  Gov- 
ernment but  that  also  has  enough  pull  and  power  to  obtain  the  Government's 
preference  to  a  proposition  it  offers  irrespective  of  how  attractive  other  propo- 
sitions made  by  different  concerns  may  look  t^  the  Government.  I  found  this 
firm,  one  of  the  partners  of  whieli  is  Dr.  tMrmiuo  de  Mello  who  is  a  son-in-law 
of  President  Washington  Luiz.  There  are  two  other  partners  who  are  very 
well  known  in  Government  circles.  The  name  of  one  of  them  is  Dr.  Max 
Leitao  with  whom  I  instituted  friendship  and  dined  together  a  couple  of 
times. 

Now  it  was  about  this  time,  or  shortly  thereafter,  that  the  Bra- 
zilian revolution  of  1930  broke  out,  and  one  of  the  issues  that  brought 
about  that  uprising  was  the  wholesale  graft  in  the  regime  in  power 
at  the  time. 

On  page  2  of  this  same  letter  I  would  like  to  read  a  passage  which 
reads  in  part  as  follows : 

He  told  me  furthermore  and  confidentially  that  the  business  for  the  Euro- 
pean factories  was  obtained  through  intervention  by  their  respective  ambas- 
sadors. That  the  Italian  Ambassador  upon  knowing  what  the  price  quoted 
by  Nobel  was  went  personally  to  the  President  of  the  Republic  and  obtained 
his  consent  to  cutting  down  the  share  given  to  the  British  factory  and  giving 
a  part  of  the  order  to  the  Italian  factory.  He  also  confirmed  that  the  Ameri- 
can factory's  bid  was  turned  down. 

Can  you  tell  us,  any  of  you  gentlemen — Mr.  Monaghan  particu- 
larly, or  Mr.  Beebe — if  ambassadors  act  in  this  way  as  salesmen  for 
munitions. 

Mr.  Beebe.  We  have  no  positive  information  on  the  subject,  but 
our  agents  at  times  have  intimated  that  their  governments  assisted 
them  in  making  sales.     Just  in  what  way.  I  do  not  know. 

Senator  Barbour.  Do  you  know  anything  about  it,  Mr.  Mon- 
aghan ? 

Mr.  Monaghax.  To  the  same  effect  as  Mr.  Beebe  has  just  said. 
That  is  all. 

Senator  Barbour.  On  page  3  of  this  letter  your  agent  Barata  seems 
to  think  that  Souza  Sampaio  &  Cia.,  the  firm  which  was  selected 
to  act  as  intermediary  in  his  proposed  business,  is  even  more  influ- 
ential than  ambassadors,  because  in  the  third  paragraph  on  the  third 
page  he  says : 


2554  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Witli  the  connections  I  have  made  I  can  assure  you  that  no  Government 
business  shall  be  given  in  the  future  to  any  of  our  European  competitors 
without  our  being  given  a  break.  I  dare  say  that  a  firm  as  influential  with  the 
Government  as  Souze  Sampaio  &  Cia.,  Ltda.,  can  shut  out  any  competitors 
having  even  Ambassadors  as  intermediaries. 

It  was  a  pretty  good  connection,  in  other  words,  he  was  sug- 
gesting ? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  I  would  say  he  was  bragging,  in  any  event, 
because  he  has  never  been  successful  in  getting  any  military  busi- 
ness for  us  in  Brazil. 

Senator  Barbour.  He  never  got  any  business  for  you,  Mr. 
Monaghan,  and  he  never  appointed  any  agent? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Not  at  that  time.  It  was  only  recently  we  got 
an  agent  to  act  on  military  business.  By  the  way,  I  want  to  modify 
that  a  bit  by  saying  in  1933,  I  believe  it  was,  we  did  have  a  sale  to 
the  Federal  Govermnent  at  Rio,  through  an  agent  we  appointed  on 
.50  caliber  cartridges  at  that  time,  and  it  was  not  any  of  these  firms 
he  mentioned. 

Senator  Barbour.  With  this  company's  position  of  force  or  power 
with  the  Government,  why  do  you  suppose  that  was  the  case?  Do 
you  suppose  there  was  any  graft  there  between  them  and  the  Gov- 
ernment in  turn  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  I  do  not  know. 

Senator  Barbour.  I  am  not  trying  to  say  that  you  are  a  party  to 
that,  but  I  am  trying  honestly  to  find  out  whether  there  are  link- 
ujis  Avhich  are  detrimental  and  harmful,  entirely  aside  from  the 
problem  which  confronts  anybody  who  has  to  sell  munitions  and 
I  am  convinced  that  there  is  a  lot  of  graft  down  there,  from  the 
study  which  I  have  made  since  I  have  been  on  the  committee.  It 
is  pretty  evident.  I  think  everybody  feels  that  is  really  so.  It  is 
not  that  I  am  blaming  the  American  manufacturer  alone  for  that 
situation.  I  think  he  has  got  a  situation  he  has  got  to  face  or  keep 
out  of  the  market,  but  we  want  to  try  and  have  the  whole  picture 
in  the  end  here,  gentlemen.  That  is  my  point  of  view  on  it,  and 
anything  you  can  do  to  help  us  on  it,  is  just  what  we  are  after. 

Xow  I  Avould  like  to  read  from  a  letter  of  Mr.  Monoghan  to  Mr. 
Barata,  under  date  of  August  8,  1930,  which  I  offer  for  appropriate 
number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  987"  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2632.) 

Senator  Barbour.  That  reads  in  part : 

We  absolutely  agree  with  you  that  in  government  business,  the  prime 
essential  is  to  liave  the  right  connection ;  otherwise  price,  quality,  or  other 
considerations  are  of  no  avail. 

Fiuthermore,  it  is  necessary  to  nurse  these  contracts  from  time  to  time ; 
but  the  extent  of  the  time  and  money  to  be  employed  has  to  be  gaged  by 
the  potentiiil  business  that  might  ensue.  Before  long  you  will  no  doubt  know 
more  on  this  score  and  in  particular  the  prices  we  would  have  to  quote  in 
Older  to  obtain  the  business.    Then  we  can  tell  if  we  can  meet  competition. 

Now  you  say  yourself  to  your  man  in  Brazil  that  price,  quality, 
and  other  considerations  are  of  no  avail,  and  that  it  is  essential  to 
have  the  right  connection.  Now  is  that  the  proposition?  Do  you 
mean  to  say,  if  you  can  get  the  right  indi"\ddual,  that  he,  without 
any  gratuities,  or  anything  of  the  kind,  is  the  fellow  who  can  get 
the  business? 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2555 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  Oh,  no.  First  off,  in  business  dealings  I  think 
the  most  important  factor  is  that  of  confidence  in  the  man  with  wliom 
you  are  dealing. 

Senator  Barbour.  That  is  true. 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  And  it  follows  from  that  that  he  won't  liave  any 
chance  at  all,  they  won't  listen  to  him  as  to  price,  quality  or  any 
of  those  things,  unless  he  is  a  man  in  whom  you  know  30U  can  have 
confidence  for  fulfillment  of  anything  he  enters  into. 

The  second  part  of  that  is  again  reminding  him  to  keep  away 
from  these  rainbows.  I  have  had  a  number  of  occasions  with  Barata- 
chasing  rainbows  down  there,  and  I  wanted  to  keep  him  in  the  com- 
mercial business,  which  is  the  big  part  of  our  business,  and  wanted 
him  to  put  his  time  on  that  instead  of  playing  all  around  with  these 
things. 

Senator  Barbour.  Mr.  Chairman,  we  will  go  to  the  next  exhibit, 
in  which  you,  Mr.  Monaghan — I  think  it  is;  the  name  is  cut  off  at 
the  bottom,  but  I  am  quite  sure  it  is — give  a  little  sales  talk.  Of 
course,  at  that  time  you  did  not  know  that  the  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 
Nemours  Co.  would  interest  themselves  in  you.  I  offer  that  letter 
for  appropriate  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  988"  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  page  2633.) 

Senator  Barbour.  However,  I  will  read  some  of  that  letter 
[reading]  : 

We  have  to  hui'i'.v  in  order  to  catch  today's  mail.  The  latest  news  we  liave 
this  moming  is  that  the  Brazilian  Government  resigned  and  the  new  people 
are  in  power.  Wliat  the  developments  are  within  the  next  few  days  remains 
to  'oe  seen  and  no  doubt  we  will  have  your  cable  advices  as  to  prospects  for 
business. 

Of  course,  the  change  in  government  is  no  absolute  reason  to  our  way  of 
rhinking  that  there  will  be  no  further  inquiries  for  Government  supplies,  but 
rather  we  are  inclined  to  think  the  new  Government  will  consider  it  necessary 
to  replenish  their  stocks  of  cartridges  and  perhaps  even  build  up  the  stocks 
beyond  the  point  at  which  they  were  before  the  trouble.  Of  course,  we  are 
wondering  what  your  status  will  be  with  the  new  Government,  that  is  to  say, 
if  you  will  be  accepted  as  a  friend  in  view  of  your  negotiations  for  attempting 
ro  sell  those  formerly  in  power  and  we  await  with  interest  your  advices  on 
this  point. 

Then,  to  skip  to  page  3,  the  letter  continues  [reading]  : 

In  all  these  negotiations  for  Government  business,  you  as  well  as  ourselves 
have  been  working  up  toward  the  top  instead  of  the  way  some  big  companies 
do — from  the  top  down.  In  other  words,  you  find  what  you  believe  is  a  good 
intermediary  and  then  try  to  reach  the  Minister  of  War  or  whoever  else  has 
authority  in  placing  orders.  The  du  Pont  Co.  makes  it  a  practice  of  finding 
out  who  is  the  right  man  to  work  with,  the  Minister  of  War,  the  head  of  the 
Ordnance  Department,  or  whoever  else  it  may  be,  and  then  asks  that  authori- 
tative person  who  it  is  believed  would  be  a  good  agent  to  apiK)int  for  negotia- 
tions. But  again  we  want  to  say  no  details  are  to  be  arranged  by  you  with 
an  intermediary  without  our  authority  after  we  have  received  complete  dfta 
from  you. 

Now,  that  you  and  the  du  Pont  Co.  are  one,  you  can  sort  of  work 
both  ends  against  the  middle,  because  you  begin  at  the  bottom  to 
start  working  up,  and  you  report  that  they  begin  at  the  top  and  work 
down. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  If  you  will  read  the  whole  letter  and  tie  it  in 
with  the  letter  before  of  Barata  and  the  numerous  people  he  is  talk- 
ing about,  who  never  reach  any  conclusion,  "  that  man  is  good  to 
work  with  ",  "  this  man  is  good  to  work  with  ",  "  the  other  knows 


2556  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

how  to  go  about  the  business;  he  is  acceptable  to  the  Government." 
I  am  trying  to  tell  him  how  to  stop  this  playing  around  so  much  and 
get  a  person  who  was  acceptable  to  the  Government. 

Senator  Barbour.  The  interesting  thing,  as  I  read  it — there  is  a 
lot  in  the  letter  here  which  I  certainly  am  not  avoiding  because  I  feel 
it  would  help  you  if  it  were  read — that  certainly  is  not  so. 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  This  letter  is  giving  him  a  calling  down  for  the 
way  he  conducted  his  business,  or  attempted  to  conduct  it,  and  got 
nowhere. 

Senator  Barbour.  Do  you  want  all  of  it  read? 

The  Chairman,  It  will  all  be  in  the  record. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  That  is  enough  for  me. 

Senator  Barbour.  I  am  not  trying  to  avoid  it,  but  it  is  a  long  let- 
ter and  a  lot  of  people  want  to  get  home.  It  brings  out  the  point, 
however,  that  you  made,  very  clearly :  This  man  that  you  wrote  to 
is  finding  a  man  at  the  bottom  and  working  up  from  him,  and  then 
you  go  on  and  tell  him  what  you  feel  is  the  du  Pont  procedure, 
which  is  the  reverse, 

Mr.  Monaghan.  If  you  get  the  right  man  that  way,  he  can  be  of 
much  assistance  to  the  War  Department  or  Ordnance  Department 
in  the  way  of  ballistics,  which  many  of  these  nations  do  not  have. 

Senator  Barbour.  The  next  letter  is  dated  November  30,  1932, 
W'hich  I  feel  is  of  considerable  interest  to  the  committee,  and  I 
would  like  to  read  the  first  two  paragraphs.  This  is  a  private  and 
confidential  letter  from  you,  Mr.  Monaghan,  to  your  man,  Barata, 
that  we  have  been  talking  about. 

I  will  offer  it  for  appropriate  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  989  "  and  is  in- 
cluded in  the  appendix  on  p.  2635.) 

Senator  Barbour.  I  read : 

Since  we  received  your  letter  saying  the  Government  was  going  to  close  up 
the  local  ammunition  factory  in  Sao  Paulo,  we  have  given  a  lot  of  thought  to 
that  situation,  for  we  recognize  it  is  a  mighty  important  one  to  our  interests. 
Wliat  we  are  going  to  say  to  you  in  this  letter  we  want  treated  strictly  confi- 
dential. 

In  the  first  place  we  want  to  tell  you  that  nearly  all  the  companies  in  this 
country  and  Europe  wh.o  would  be  benefited  by  having  the  local  factory  out  of 
the  way,  agreed  some  time  ago  not  to  enter  bids  with  Mr.  Matarazzo  for  his 
company,  for  we  all  felt  by  standing  off  the  factory  would  eventually  fail.  This 
is  the  reason  we  never  turned  a  sympathetic  ear  to  any  of  the  overtures  made 
through  you  for  us  to  become  interested  in  the  purchase  of  the  company. 

Now,  when  did  the  American  munitions  companies  agree  that  this 
Brazilian  munitions  factory  ^vould  fail?  Do  you  know  when  the 
agreement  was  arrived  at? 

Mr.  Monaghan,  I  never  knew  of  any  agreement  directly  with  us 
on  that  proposition.  I  heard  in  Europe  in  1929  that  "Winchester  had 
been  apj^roached  on  the  purchase  of  that  factory.  I  never  questioned 
Winchester  at  any  time  after  that  whether  they  were  or  not.  But  I 
understood  the}^  were  not  going  to  do  anything  about  it.  In  my 
opinion,  at  that  time,  at  the  time  of  that  letter,  all  the  ammunition 
companies  were  in  such  financial  condition  I  did  not  believe  they 
would  be  interested  in  paying  any  big  money  to  purchase  that 
factory  there. 

Senator  Barbour.  Then  you  were  not  really  quite  right  in  telling 
him.  Of  wliat  he  would  infer,  as  I  would,  in  reading  the  letter,  that 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2557 

you  knew  that  all  the  manufacturers  were  probably  standin<»:  off  so 
that  there  would  not  be  any  bid  and  the  thin^T  would  flop  ? 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  That  is  not  the  true  picture;  no,  sir. 

Senator  Barbour.  I  will  read  paragraph  4,  if  I  may  [reading]  : 

It  might  be  that  some  incentive  could  be  given  tlie  Government  official  who 
was  responsible  for  the  scrapping  of  the  plant  to  see  that  he  went  througli  with 
these  plans.  With  all  the  ammunition  factories  practically  broke  nowadaj's, 
not  much  could  be  done  in  the  way  of  paying  worthwhile  money,  but  we  are 
thinking  the  result  possibly  could  be  accomplished  if  handled  diplomatically, 
at  a  vei-y  small  cost. 

Now,  is  this  a  suggestion  that  your  agent,  or  anyone,  trj"  to  pro- 
hibit anybody  or  try  to  corrupt  anybody  ? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  No,  sir;  that  letter  was  written  by  me  without 
anyone  in  the  company  knowing  that  I  wrote  it. 

Later  on — and  I  can  give  you  the  copies  if  you  desire — I  asked 
Barata  if  he  had  received  it,  and  he  said  he  never  received  the  letter. 
He  said,  "  Send  me  a  copy  of  it." 

I  said,  "  No,  too  much  time  has  elapsed  now.    Just  forget  it." 

So  that  this  letter,  so  far  as  I  know,  never  reached  Barata. 

Mr.  WoiiLFORTH.  Have  you  that  letter  with  you? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Yes,  sir.    Do  you  care  to  have  it? 

Mr.  WoHLFORTH.  I  would  like  to  see  it,  if  you  have  it. 

Senator  Barbour.  I  will  read  it  on  to  the  finish,  Mr.  Chairman 
[reading]  : 

What  we  want  you  to  do  is  to  watch  this  situation  from  every  angle  and  add 
any  propaganda  you  can  with  the  proper  Government  officials  to  the  end  that 
the  plant  be  scrapped. 

This  is  a  rather  sketchy  plan  we  are  presenting  to  you  and  you  want  to  be 
careful  you  do  not  make  any  false  moves.  As  a  matter  of  fact  you  should  do 
nothing  where  you  would  appear  as  a  principal.  First  and  foremost  we  want 
every  bit  of  information  from  you  as  to  what  transpires  and  is  intended  in 
connection  with  this  local  plant.  Your  suggestions  as  to  what  could  be  done  in 
furthering  our  interests  in  connection  with  this  factory  will  be  anxiously 
awaited  by  return  air  mail. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  I  had  a  letter  from  Barata  prior  to  writing  this 
letter,  saying  that  it  was  the  thought — in  fact,  a  good  deal  more 
than  the  thought — of  the  central  government  at  Rio  de  Janeiro  to 
close  this  Matarazzo  ammunition  plant  near  Sao  Paulo  because  in 
the  revolution,  prior  to  this  letter,  the  Matarazzo  plant  had  sup- 
plied ammunition  to  the  rebels  at  Sao  Paulo.  They  made  both 
types,  both  the  military  and  the  commercial.  We  felt  that  if  they 
moved  the  military  equipment  to  the  Federal  ammunition  plant  at 
Rio  de  Janeiro  they  would  not  have  any  interest  in  the  equipment 
for  the  commercial  ammunition. 

Senator  Barbour.  I  see. 

Now,  Mr.  Chairman,  I  do  not  want  to  add  anything  in  conclusion 
of  my  own,  because  I  do  not  know  that  it  is  necessary  or  appropriate, 
but  it  seems  to  me  that  this  whole  story  here  which  has  to  do  with 
many  instances  which  seem  alike  to  me.  although  they  may  be  de- 
j^cribed  differently,  are  simply  cases  of  where  the  American  manu- 
facturer is  helpless  in  the  situation.  He  has  got  to  indulge  in  these 
practices  or  he  does  not  get  any  business. 

And,  by  the  same  token,  the  purchaser  is  interested  first  in  it 
because  of  what  he  selfishly  makes  out  of  it.  By  the  same  token, 
again,  it  seems  to  me  that  the  greater  his  purchases  can  be,  the  more 


2558  MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 

graft  he  makes,  when  we  come  back  to  the  stimulation  of  munitions 
that  has  been  mentioned  time  after  time,  and  the  part  that  the 
receiving  of  graft  plays  in  that. 

I  look  upon  it  as  being  a  problem  in  the  situation  more  than  what 
he  is  selling. 

Mr.  MoNAGHAN.  May  I  say,  Senator,  that  I  have  traveled  in  some 
Latin  American  countries,  some  little  time  in  China,  and  many  other 
countries,  and  never  in  any  of  my  business  experience  have  I  paid 
one  cent  of  graft. 

The  Chairman.  Why  do  you  countenance  it  on  the  part  of  any- 
one representing  you? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  We  do  not. 

The  Chairman.  You  have. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Well — I  do  not  know  of  any  case. 

The  Chairman.  How? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  I  do  not  know  of  any  case. 

The  Chairman.  You  have  had  reports  made  to  you  of  what  it  was 
necessary  to  do.  You  have  reason  to  know  that  those  things  were 
being  done  by  your  agents,  have  you  not? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  No,  sir. 

The  Chairman.  What  prompted  you  to  make  the  contribution  to 
the  campaign  fund? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  I  explained  to  you,  and  the  record  shows,  it  was 
more  of  a  personal  matter  of  friendship  with  Dr.  Morales. 

The  Chairman.  In  a  letter  of  October  4,  1930,  to  Mr.  Barata  in 
Brazil,  upon  what  authority  did  you  undertake  to  declare  as  to  what 
the  policy  of  the  du  Pouts  was  in  their  sales  of  military  supplies, 
Mr.  Monaghan? 

Mr.  Monaghan.  Of  working  from  the  top,  so  as  to  find  out  the 
man  who  was  persona  grata  to  the  authority,  you  mean? 

The  Chairman.  Yes.    Your  exact  remark  was  this : 

The  du  Pont  Co.  makes  it  a  practice  of  finding  out  wlio  is  the  right  man  to 
work  with,  the  Minister  of  War,  the  head  of  tlie  Ordnance  Department,  or  who- 
ever else  it  may  be,  and  tlien  asks  that  authoritative  person  who  it  believes 
would  be  a  good  agent  to  appoint  for  negotiations. 

Mr.  Monaghan.  I  had  known  for  a  number  of  years  various 
men  in  the  du  Pont  organization,  and  naturally  talked  things  over 
with  them  of  mutual  interest.  I  do  not  recall  who  in  particular 
would  be  the  author  of  such  an  idea. 

Senator  Barbour.  I  might  just  mention,  Mr.  Chairman,  if  I  may, 
that  these  exhibits  that  I  presented  have  not  all  been  numbered,  but 
should  be  before  another  set  comes  into  existence. 

The  Chairman.  The  reporter  will  take  care  of  that. 

The  committee  will  recess  until  10  o'clock  tomorrow  morning. 

(Thereupon,  at  5  p.m.,  the  hearing  adjourned  until  tomorrow, 
Tuesday,  Dec.  11,  1934,  at  10  a.m.) 

This  concludes  that  part  of  the  testimony  known  as  "  Part  XL 
Chemical  Preparations  Following  the  War  and  Interchange  of 
Military  Information."  At  this  point  the  committee  took  up  the 
question  of  "  Relationship  of  the  Munitions  Makers  to  the  Govern- 
ment and  International  Connections  in  the  Chemical  Industry." 
(See  Part  XII.) 


APPENDIX 

Exhibit  No.  909 

[File  :  Publicity  bureau.     C.  K.  Weston.  European  correspondence! 

London,  December  JO,  1920. 
Mr.  Charles  A.  Meiade. 

Vice  President,  E.  I.  du  Pont  dc  'Nemours  d  Co., 

Wilmington,  Del.,  V.  S.  A. 

Dear  Mr.  Meade  :  My  mission  seems  to  be  going  fairly  well ;  I  have  met  a 
number  of  our  American  newspaper  correspondents,  and  have,  I  think,  suc- 
ceeded in  selling  them  our  idea.  One  cannctt  tell  of  course,  until  the  results 
begin  to  appear  in  American  newspapers. 

I  am  sending  you  clippings  giving  details  of  the  debate  in  the  House  of 
Commons,  along  with  other  matter  which  I  think  is  interesting. 

It  appears  that  the  vote  does  not  end  the  matter  for  the  bill  goes  auto- 
matically to  a  committee  which,  as  far  as  I  can  understand,  will  discuss  such 
changes  as  it  thinks  should  be  submitted  on  final  passage.  My  understanding 
is  that  there  will  be  no  changes,  and  that  the  action  on  second  reading  is, 
in  the  natural  course  of  parliamentary  procedure,  likely  to  stand  throughout. 
This  committee  meets  again  on  Monday,  and  I  suppose  will  then  finish  up  its 
work. 

I  believe  that  the  great  strong  point  to  be  brought  out  by  our  friends  in  the 
United  States  Senate  is,  that  with  Japan,  France,  and  England  all  protecting 
their  dye  industries,  the  United  States  is  left  as  the  only  hojpe  for  the  Ger- 
mans. They  will,  without  doubt,  concentrate  over  there  and  give  us  a  par- 
ticularly hard  fight. 

You  will  notice  in  the  report  of  the  debate  and  in  the  other  clippings  that 
the  British  bill  had  exactly  the  same  kind  of  opposition  as  that  with  which 
we  had  to  contend  at  Washington.  The  minority  of  the  consumers  raised  the 
same  cry  about  poor  quality  and  insuflScient  quantity.  Their  statements  of 
so-called  facts  were  as  inaccurate  as  those  made  by  the  opposition  to  us. 

I  shall  remain  here  next  week  to  see  this  bill  through  and  to  continue  my 
efforts  to  stoke  up  the  interest  of  those  whom  I  came  to  see. 

The  correspondents  in  Paris  report  to  the  offices  here  so  it  is  apparent  that 
if  the  men  in  London  get  the  right  angle  it  will  be  wonderfully  helpful. 

In  Paris  I  shall  devote  my  energy  very  largely  to  bringing  the  correspondents 
in  contact  more  closely  with  the  American  sources  of  news,  at  the  same  time 
trying  to  give  them  the  proper  angle  so  that  they  will  appreciate  the  importance 
of  the  news. 

It  is  difficult  to  make  a  definite  report  on  what  I  think  I  have  accomplished 
here,  but  my  feeling  is  that  the  work  is  well  worth  wiiile. 

If  things  continue  to  move  along  well  I  shall  be  able  to  leave  here  early  in 
January.     I  hope  to  return  on  the  Imperator  which  I  think  sails  January  8. 

Will  you  advise  Byrne  of  the  contents  of  this  letter,  and  pass  along  to  him 
some  of  the  clippings,  so  that  lie  too  may  keep  informed  and  be  ready  to  take 
such  action  as  suggests  itself  from  your  end. 

Very  truly  yours.  (S)     C.   K.  Weston. 

W/DGO. 


Exhibit  No.  910 

[File  :  Publicity  bureau.     C.  K.  Weston,  European  correspondence] 
[Draft] 

Wilmington,  Del.,  Dec.  3,  1920. 
*  Weston. 

Understand  Signor  Tittoni  has  raised  League  of  Nations  interest  in  national 
monopolies    and    their    danger    to    world    peace     (Stop)     Urge    attention    of 

*  Pencil  markings.  2559 


2560  MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 

League  be  drawn  to  clanger  of  I'esumption  of  German  organic  chemical  ;infl 
dye  monopoly  (Stop)  This  is  l»y  far  the  most  menacing  and  deserves  im- 
mediate attention  of  League  who  might  welcome  American  support  on  a 
chemical  disarmament  measure  (Stop)  You  cannot  destroy  organic  chemi- 
cal factories  having  peace  functions  but  must  ensure  world  redistribution 
*of  organic  chemical  producing  capacity  by  support  of  national  protective 
legislation  (Stop)  This  is  a  critical  measure  on  which  all  disarmament 
schemes  must  stand  or  fall  (Stop)  Disaimament  is  a  farce  while  Germany 
retains  organic  chemical  monopolies  (Stop)  You  can  get  full  details  in 
disarmament  chapter  or  Major  Lefebure's  book  now  held  by  Whetmore,  British 
Dyestuffs  Corporation,  Imperial  House,  Kingsway.  He  *has  been  cabled  to 
confer  (Stop)  Suggest  consult  Lord  Moulton  on  best  means  to  obtain  early 
consideration  of  this  question  by  League     (Slop) 


Exhibit  No.  911 

[Moulton  file] 

MEMORANDUM    BY    MAJOR   LEFEBURE,    DATED  LONDON,   FEBRUARY    1,    1921 

The  chief  points  which  I  thinli  we  should  both  bear  in  mind  in  connection 
with  dye  legislation  and  disarmament  questions  are  the  following: 

I.  Dye  legislation  promotes  the  redistribution  of  organic  chemical  capacity 
throughout  the  world.  This  move  from  Germany  monopoly  toward  world 
equilibrium  will  not,  as  some  of  your  press  stated,  perpetuate  chemical  warfare. 
It  will  remove  the  biggest  incentive  for  its  use ;  that  is,  the  monopoly  of  pro- 
duction. 

You  will  find  the  whole  case  stated  in  my  memorandum  which  has  been  pub- 
lished in  the  Chemical  and  Metallurgical  Engineering  Journal  for  January  5th, 
1921.  I  left  this  statement  as  a  straight  uncorrected  dictation  with  General 
Fries  and  Mr.  Poucher,  and  apparently  they  have  thought  fit  to  give  it  publicity. 

II.  Everything  possible  should  be  done  in  America  to  include  in  the  treaty 
or  in  official  disarmament  discussions  the  conditions  that  the  relevant  clauses 
of  the  Treasy  of  Versailles  shall  be  applied  to  that  huge  arsenal,  the  I.  G. 

These  clauses  are  as  follows; 

((■)   Article  168. 

This  demands  limitation  of  munitions  and  war  material  production  to 
factories  or  works  approved  by  the  Allied  and  Associated  powers. 

Numbers  of  plants  in  the  German  dye  combine  were  either  converted,  adapted, 
or  actually  built  for  the  production  of  poison  gases  or  nitric  acid  for  explosives. 
Article  168  gives  us  the  right  to  restrict  the  number  of  these  plants.  As  the 
use  of  poison  gases  in  Germany  is  forl)idden  by  the  treaty,  Germany  should 
not  be  allowed  to  retain  any  of  those  plants  which  were  used  for  poison-gas 
production.  There  can  be  no  other  possible  way  of  reading  article  168  as  far 
as  the  plants  actually  built  for  poison  gases  and  war  nitric  acid  are  concerned. 
Article  168  refers  to  any  war  material  whatever,  an  unqualified  statement. 

(ii)   Article  169. 

This  requires  that  any  special  plant  intended  for  the  manufacture  of  war 
material,  except  such  as  may  be  recognized  as  necessary  for  equipping  the 
authorized  strength  of  the  German  Army,  must  be  surrendered  to  be  destroyed 
or  rendered  useless. 

In  addition  to  certain  specific  poison  gas  plants  a  large  proportion  of  the 
Haber  process  capacity  should  logically,  be  dealt  with  under  this  article  of  the 
treaty. 

What  are  the  numerical  facts  of  the  ease? 

About  four  thousand  tons  per  luonth  of  poison  gas  material  were  produced 
during  1918  by  the  German  dye  combine  in  converted  or  expanded  dye  plants. 
This  enormous  output  represented  about  one-third  of  the  pre-war  German  dye 
capacity,  and  covers  a  number  of  new  plants  built  specifically  for  poison  gas. 
To  leave  them  untouched  while  article  169  exists  is  to  admit  that  these  plants 
represent  authorized  equipment  for  the  German  Army !  This  is  the  anomalous 
but  logical  conclusion  of  the  present  situation. 

With  regard  to  the  Haber  process,  Germany  has  capacity  of  at  least  two 
hundred  thousand  tons  of  nitrogen  in  excess  of  all  her  pre-war  needs.  She 
either  requires  this  for: — 

(ft)  World  monopoly. 


*  Pencil  markings. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2561 

If  she  acliieves  this  we  are  leaving  her  witli  a  criminal  advantage  in  eventual 
explosives  production,  seeing  that  the  dye  and  nitrating  plants  of  the  I.  G.  are 
all  literally  within  a  stone's  throw  of  Oppan  and  Mersebourg.  Germany  has 
a  complete  and  mighty  arsenal  left  untouched  by  the  Allies. 

(&)   Actually  contemplated  militarif  ^^e. 

Tlie  Governnient  support  afforded  to  the  Haber  developments  is  consistent 
with  the  military  use  of  the  plants.  Whatever  its  alternative  peace  time  uses, 
this  enormous  excess  Haber  capacity  is  an  exceedingly  weighty  military  factor 
far  in  excess  in  quantity  to  the  standard  laid  down  in  Article  169. 

(iii)  Article  171. 

This  forbids  the  manufactui'e  of  asphyxiating  gases  and  analogous  materials 
in  Germany. 

The  point  arises  as  to  the  value  of  this  denial  to  Germany  of  the  right  to- 
manufacture  such  substances.  Obviously,  in  case  of  war,  the  country  pos- 
sessing these  factories  and  willing  to  use  them  for  such  purposes,  could  do  so. 

But  let  us  take  the  case  of  Germany.  It  may  well  be  there,  however,  that 
the  possibility  of  rapidly  converting,  unhampered  forty  thousand  tons  per  annum 
of  producing  capacity  (a  low  estimate  of  the  German  poison  gas  production  by 
the  I.G.)  for  the  use  of  vital  war  chemicals  would  be  an  important  factor  in 
her  decision  to  make  war. 

It  may  he  that  by  taking  certain  measures  in  peace  regarding  these  potential 
arsenals,  production  of  poison  gases  in  war  would  be  prevented  because  war 
itself  would  be  prevented,  and  the  need  to  produce  would  not  arise.  This  is  not 
in  the  least  an  unreasonable  conclusion.  Chemical  warfare  was  rapidly  develop- 
ing to  meet  the  large  number  of  technical  and  military  situations  which  had 
formerly  been  met  by  the  use  of  explosives.  The  League  and  treaty  propose  to 
limit  the  possibility  to  use  explosives  by  actually  destroying  and  limiting  ex- 
plosives plants  in  Germany.  It  is  therefore  a  fair  conclusion  that  the  unfettered 
use  of  this  enormous  capacity  for  filling  shell  and  other  devices  with  chemicals, 
alternative  to  explosives,  the  latter  not  being  available,  would  be  a  serious  factor 
in  a  decision  of  war.  This  advantage  would  be  comparable  with  the  possession 
of  a  large,  rapidly  mobilizable  force  or  a  large  number  of  guns,  or  a  fleet. 

(The  I.  G.  itself  produced  15.000  tons  of  explosives  per  month  and  can  produce 
much  more,  however.) 

It  is  therefore  important  to  consider  what  steps  could  be  taken  in  peace  to 
supervise  these  German  plants  in  such  a  way  that  any  undiscovered  attempt  to 
produce  chemical  munitions  would  be  impossible ;  in  other  words,  to  neutralize 
this  inducement  for  war.  In  our  opinion  article  171  is  almost  valueless  unless 
some  control  and  inspection  of  these  plants  is  arranged  to  ensure  its  execution. 
However  unpalatable  to  Germany,  such  action  is  merely  a  logical  conclusion  of 
rheir  abuse  of  the  possession  of  this  organic  chemical  world  monopolv. 

(iv)   Article  172. 

This  obliges  Germany  to  disclose  the  nature  and  mode  of  manufacture  of  all 
explosives,  toxic  substances,  or  other  like  chemical  preparations  used  by  them  in 
war  or  prepared  by  them  for  the  purpose  of  being  so  used. 

It  may  not  be  obvious,  but  it  is  nevertheless  true  that  the  full  disclosure  de- 
manded above  would  function  as  a  measure  of  prohibition  against  the  use  of 
poison  gas  by  Germany  in  any  future  war.  A  ]ioint  which  cannot  be  too  strongly 
emphasized  is  the  following :  War  chemicals  lose  a  large  chance  of  decisive  use 
liy  an  enemy  if  one  is  aware  of  their  nature  and  mode  of  preparation.  Knowl- 
edge of  these  facts  at  once  enables  us  to  develop  protective  measures.  This  is 
the  supreme  lesson  of  the  chemical  move  and  counter  move  of  the  last  war. 

Has  Germany  disclosed  these  secrets?  It  does  not  appear  so.  An  analysis  of 
her  production  of  poison  gas  and  use  against  us  on  the  front  reveals  the  signifi- 
cant fact  that  all  the  important  discoveries  and  research  decisions  were  made 
in  time  for  production  to  commence  in  1915,  1916,  and  in  a  few  cases  l9l7.  This 
implies  that  a  vast  amount  of  research  whose  results  never  appeared  on  the 
front  must  have  occurred  subsequent  to  this,  and  these  discoveries  and  informa- 
tion are  infinitely  more  significant  if  left  unexposed. 

We  are  not  yet  even  in  possession  of  full  information  on  the  manufacture  of 
tliose  substances  whose  plants  the  "  Hartley  Mission  '"  identified  in  1919.  vriiat 
detailed  knowledge  have  we,  for  example,  on  tiie  German  production  of  carbon 
monoxide  for  phosgene,  yet  allied  manufacturers  stumbled  at  this  and  similar 
problems.  Phosgene  production  was  removed  to  Mersebourg,  and  the  plant  there 
must  have  embodied  many  improvements  which  we  should  know. 

We  must  demand  the  full  execution  of  this  article  of  the  treaty. 


2562  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Exhibit  No.  912 

l[File,  publicity  bureau,  Thomas  R.  Sbipp — Correspondence  dyes.     No  date  from  1921  filo  i 

Memorandum 

Our  present  and  proposed  activities. 

For  Mr.  Atherton. 
From  Mr.  Braddock. 

I.  Written  publicity : 

In  conducting  this  we  have  recourse  to  two  media : 

A.  Tliomas  R.  Sliipp  &  Company  Iiandles  news  material  and  illustrated 

mats  from  Washington ;   specializes  on  the  country  press  and 
newspapers  in  smaller  cities. 

B.  Bronson  Batchelor,  Inc.,  works  along  the  following  lines : 

1.  Special  articles  in  New  York  daily  and  Sunday  newspapers. 

2.  Editorials  to  1,025  newspapers,  one  in  each  city. 

3.  Illustrated  mats  to  selected  newspapers,  varying  from  400  to 

1,025,  according  to  circumstances. 

4.  Special    articles    supplied    through    syndicates — illustriation : 

Herty  full-page  articles  to  40  leading  Sunday  newspapers. 

5.  Member  of  his  staft"  supplying  special  articles  and  telegraphic 

items  re  Finance  Committee  hearings,  disarmament  confer- 
ence, administration  backing,  etc. 

6.  Supplies  newspaper  editors  with  statistical  facts  bearing  on 

the  relationship  of  the  organic  chemical  industry  to  the 
public. 

7.  Publishes   Current    Opinion,    a   4-page   newspaper   comprised 

entirely  of  editorials  upon  the  necessity  of  establishing  a 
selective  embargo  for  the  protection  of  the  American  dyes 
industry. 

8.  Conducts  the   Institute   of  American  Business,   which  mails 

Current  Opinion  and  other  material  to  Senators,  Con- 
gressmen, and  selected  editors. 

9.  By  daily  conference  learns  latest  situation  and  gives  benefit  of 

his  judgment  based  on  intimate  knowledge  of  what  we  are 
doing. 

II.  Speakers'  publicity :  Letters  were  sent  to  chambers  of  commerce,   Rotary 

clubs,  Kiwanis  clubs,  National  and  State  conventions  offering  a  speaker 
on  this  subject.  Somewhat  over  200  requests  for  a  speaker  were  received. 
Using  virtually  all  the  time  of — 

Dr.  Charles  T.  Baylis,  described  on  attached  folder. 
Hon.  Gilbert  A.  Currie,  former  Congressman. 

Dr.  Elwood  Hendrick,  three  times  president  of  the  Chemists  Club. 
Together  with  frequent  engagements  for — 

Dr.  William  H.  Hale  Dr.  William  H.  Hunter 

Dr.  J.  Merritt  Matthews  Dr.  Charles  S.  Parsons 

Prof.  H.  G.  Byers  Dr.  Charles  E.  Coates 

Prof.  H.  E.  Simmons  C.  F.  Williamson 

Dr.  W.  Lee  Lewis  F.  G.  Moses 

A.  B.  Carter  Prof.  H.  K.  Benson 

Dr.  J.  Howard  Matthews 

We  pay  fee  and  expenses,  varying  from  $40  to  $100  each.  Concentrating  on 
Indiana,  Ohio,  Illinois,  Pennsylvania,  Iowa,  New  York,  Wisconsin,  with 
scattered  engagements  throughout  the  other  States.  Mr.  Gleuzing  and 
Mr.  Schmitz,  together  with  a  stenographer  and  typist,  are  devoting  entire 
time  and  a  great  deal  of  overtime  to  handling  this  speakers'  bureau. 

III.  Personal  interviews : 

A.  Virtually  all  of  Mr.  Abbott's  time  is  required  calling  on  big  men  like 

Mr.  Firestone,  Mr.  Edison,  Mr.  Schwab,  Mr.  O'Reilly,  Mr.  Brisbane, 
and  other  leading  business  men. 

B.  Mr.   Weddell   similai'ly   is   making  and   maintaining  numerous  con- 

tacts, such  as  the  Associated  Advertising  Clubs,  selected  firms  which 
sell  materials  and  do  business  with  some  of  the  larger  companies 
in  the  industry,  etc. 
C.  Mrs.  Emmons  is  engaged  in  building  up  contacts  with  the  women's 
organizations,  particularly  in  the  7  States  enumerated  in  a  pre- 
ceeding  paragraph. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


2563 


The  object  of  all  these  contacts  is : 

1.  To  educate  individuals  and  organizations  concerned  with  respect  to 

the  necessity  of  the  dye  embargo. 

2.  To  get  them  to  send  resolutions  and  personal  letters  to  their  Sena- 

tors and  Congressmen. 

3.  To  get  them  to  furnish  interviews  for  newspapers,  etc.,  etc. 

Note. — There  are  other  activities  arising  daily  which  cannot  be  fore- 
seen and  therefore  cannot  be  enumerated  in  this  outline.  For  illustration : 
This  morning  Stuart  Godwin  called  on  me  to  say  that  if  we  can  supply 
Frederick  J.  Haskin,  of  Washington,  who  is  the  accredited  representative 
of  loO  daily  newspapers,  some  of  them  the  largest  in  the  United  States, 
with  100,000  leaflets  on  our  subject,  Mr.  Haskin  will  be  glad  to  advertise 
the  leaflet  in  his  130  newspapers  and  to  mail  these  leaflets  for  us,  mak- 
ing no  charge  either  for  the  advertising,  for  the  mailing,  nor  for  any 
other  expense  connected  with  this.  All  we  have  to  do  is  supply  the  leaflets 
and  he  will  do  the  rest. 

Again,  the  Dye  &  Chemical  Section  of  the  "War  Trade  Board  has  sent 
an  innocent-looking  letter  to  certain  dye  manufacturers,  telling  about  an 
application  for  an  importation  license  by  a  certain  mill.  This  kind  of 
innocent-looking,  dangerous  activity  must  be  handled. 

In  view  of  the  above,  you  will  understand  that  this  memorandum 
attempts  to  be  only  a  skeleton  outline  of  some  of  our  more  important 
activities. 

(S)     Harold  Braddock. 

Sept.  12,  1921.  Harold  Braddock. 


Exhibit  No.  913 

American  Dyes  Institute: 

Chemical  Alliance  Inc.: 

1918. 

.     $2,400.00 

1918 

550. 00 

1919 

.     13, 000. 00 

1919 

25.00 

1920 

1921 -. 

21  773  49 

10,100.00 

Total. 

575.00 

1922 

8, 167.70 

1923 

1,147.21 

T.  R.  Shipp  Service: 

1922 

2, 500. 00 

Total 

56,588.40 

Total 

2,  500.  00 

Synthetic  Organic  Chemical  Manufac- 
turers Association: 

Whaley-Eaton  Service: 

1921 

250.00 

1919 

73.00 

1922 

14,050.00 

1920 

238. 15 

1923 

21, 966.  67 

1921 

238.50 

1924 

14, 687. 00 

1922 

485. 46 

1925 -- 

9,934.50 

1923 . 

305.00 

1924 

391.60 

Total... 

60, 888. 17 

1925 

Total 

343.00 

Manufacturing  Chemists  Association: 

2, 074.  61 

1918 

1919 

75.00 
384. 57 

John  McNeeley: 

1920 

375. 00 

1921 

3, 033. 00 

1921 

375. 00 

1922... 

78.00 

Total. -_ 

3, 033. 00 

1923 

75  00 

1924 

375.00 

Benjamin  Raleigh: 

1925 

75.00 

1921 

Total 

Sporting  Arms  &  Ammunition  Manu- 

100. 00. 

Total 

1,812.57 

100.00! 

Chemical  Foundation: 

1920 

9, 570. 41 

facturers  Association: 

1921 

16, 698.  72 

1926 

933.  33 

1922 

46, 986. 48 

1927 

5, 236. 02 

1923 

64,249.17 

1928 

5,000.04 

1924 

33, 454. 88 

1929 

3, 672. 45. 

1925 

81,503.23 

1930 

5, 158.  24. 

1931 . 

3, 263. 69 

Total 

252, 462. 89 

1932 

2, 713.  24 

1,316.72 
2, 298.  96 

American  Chemical  Society: 

1934  to  date  11/20 

1918 

66.00 

1919. 

436.00 

Total 

29,592.69 

1920 

500.36 

1921 

226.  78 

1922 

1,068.80 

1923... 

492. 49 

1924 

1,409.64 

1925 

330.00 

Total 

4, 530. 07 

2564  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Exhibit  No.  914 
[E^le,    Publicity    Bureau,    Lobby    Inquiry — Legislation    Dyes] 

*  Ir^nee  du  Pont 
From  P.  S.  du  Pont. 

(Address  given  by  Dr.  Wm.  J.  Hale,  of  the  Dow  Chemical  Company,  Midland, 
-Michigan,  before  the  Flint  Rotary  Club,  Friday,  December  16,  1921.) 

THE  WAR  AFTEK  THE  WAR 

Not  until  the  middle  of  tlie  nineteenth  century  do  we  find  any  real  scientific 
advances  in  the  field  of  industry.  The  Bessemer  process  for  the  production  of 
steel  inaugurated  this  period  in  the  inorganic  world ;  simultaneously  Perkin's 
synthesis  of  a  natural  dye,  mauve,  marked  the  advent  of  synthetic  dyes  in  the 
organic  \\orld.  Discovery  after  discovery,  invention  after  invention,  aided  and 
stimulated  the  progress  of  man  thereafter.  The  Anglo-Saxon  directed  his  atten- 
tion more  particularly  to  the  inorganic,  whereas  the  Teuton  devoted  himself 
primarily  to  the  organic,  though  in  no  sense  relinquishing  the  other.  Scientific 
progress  was  everywhere  apparent,  but  the  Germans  were  the  only  scientists  to 
sense  the  importance  of  great  detail.  In  this  no  more  favored  field  can  be 
conceived  than  organic  chemistry,  and  thus  by  1914  upwards  of  ten  thousand 
synthetic  dyes  and  one  thousand  synthetic  medicinals  had  fallen  to  the  credit  of 
German  endeavor.  The  Germans  alone  grasped  the  message  of  the  future.  It 
was  verily  the  voice  of  the  ages,  reverberating  through  aeons  of  civilization : 
••  Chemistry  is  the  industry  of  tlie  terrestrial  sphere — the  only  industry  given  to 
man.  Inorganic  chemistry  is  but  a  small  part  thereof,  comprising  less  than  the 
one  one-hundredth  part  of  the  organic  domain,  and  the  latter  is  doubling  itself 
every  ten  years.  Organic  chemistry  dominates  every  man,  woman,  and  child, 
every  nation."  Is  it  any  wonder  that  the  Germans  devoted  themselves  with  all 
vigor  to  the  study  of  chemistry  and  especially  to  organic  chemistry?  Suffice  it 
to  say  that  in  actual  scientific  attainments  Germany  far  surpassed  all  the  other 
civilized  nations  of  the  day.  So  far  ahead  was  she  that  we  seemed  as  mere 
pygmies  in  comparison.  Though  we  called  the  Germans  barbarians,  it  was  we 
who  were  actually  the  barbarians  in  science,  though  in  matters  of  business  and 
morals  "  barbaric  "  is  far  too  mild  a  term  to  describe  German  perversions. 

In  the  fall  of  1913  Professor  Haber  sent  word  to  the  German  war  office  that 
the  Oppau  plant  for  synthetic  ammonia  was  in  readiness.  Germany  had  nothing 
more  to  fear  from  an  English  blockade  against  Chile  saltpeter  with  an  inde- 
pendent source  of  ammonia  and  consequent  nitric  acid  at  home.  War  soon 
followed,  as  you  recall,  and  unforeseen  hazards  forced  the  Germans  to  fall  back 
upon  their  lines  of  defense. 

On  April  22,  1915,  chemical  warfare  was  first  inti'oduced  ;  the  Germans  essayed 
to  discharge  chlorine  into  the  Canadian  trenches.  Had  the  German  Army  been 
provided  with  masks  and  a  plenteous  supply  of  this  chlorine,  nothing  could  have 
stayed  their  speedy  approach  to  Calais.  After  numerous  gases  had  been  em- 
ployed by  the  German  Army,  they  finally  threw  over  "  mustard  gas  "  against  the 
English  at  Ypres  on  July  12,  1917.  A  kind  fate  seemed  ever  to  smile  on  the 
Allies  throughout  the  war.  The  Germans  could  not  prepare  more  than  5  tons  of 
mustard  gas  per  day.  Had  they  hoarded  their  supply  for  later  use  in  limitless 
quantities  what  a  different  story  would  now  be  told. 

At  the  peace  conference  the  fates  at  last  smiled  upon  Germany.  The  Allies 
were  here  beset  with  many,  many  learned  savants — men  learned  in  all  but  the 
science  of  clii^mistry,  by  which  and  for  which  the  war  was  really  waged.  The 
peace  treaty  was  drawn  up  entirely  from  the  standpoint  of  modern  mediaevalism, 
or  that  period  just  preceding  the  advent  of  chemistry  in  the  world  of  industry, 
and  the  result  was  appalling.  Thus  the  "  Bungle  of  Versailles  "  was  given  to 
man  and  passed  forthwith  into  obsolete  history.  Its  four  points,  from  the  stand- 
point of  tlie  future,  may  be  characterized  as  follows : 

1.  National  hatre<ls  engendered  by  silly  apportionments  of  trivial  territory. 

2.  Germany  financially  crippled  but  stirred  to  industrial  activities,  such  as 
will  soon  reinstate  her  in  tiie  position  of  world  leader. 

3.  Germany  deprived  of  those  useless  adjuncts  of  a  nation's  pride— her  bat- 
tleships— and  thus  saved  from  wasting  her  wealth  on  monstrosities  of  the 
future. 


Written  in  ink. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2565 

4.  As  a  gift  from  the  gods  there  was  left  to  Germany  all  of  the  implements 
for  future  wars,  and  she  was  asked  to  develop  tliem  to  her  best  ability. 

What  a  tirade  on  justice !  The  "  Bungle  of  Versailles  "  aims  to  create  in 
Germany  the  greatest  power  for  industry  and  for  war  on  the  face  of  the  earth. 
Oh,  that  there  might  have  been  just  a  few  level-headed  business  men  of  science 
in  command  at  Versailles;  men  who  knew  not  one  damned  thing  about  history 
or  economics,  not  one  blessed  thing  about  the  wishes  of  Hottentot  or  Hindu ! 

As  matters  now  stand,  what  have  we  accomplished  for  the  betterment  of  the 
world?  We  have  wrecked  thousands  upon  thousands  of  homes  and  there  are 
some  who  wonder  at  the  lack  of  confidence  and  diligence  among  us.  Chemicals 
comprised  twenty-seven  percent  of  the  munition  shells  used  by  Germany  at  the 
close  of  the  war.  The  greatest  German  chemists  today  have  already  announced 
that  chemicals  will  henceforth  constitute  Germany's  mightiest  weapon  for  future 
combat.  We  are  at  the  very  beginning  of  the  great  chemical  and  electrical  age. 
Can  you  imagine  the  leaders  of  science  willing  for  one  single  moment  to  relin- 
quish their  prowess  to  legal  advisors  or  diplomats  when  the  honor  and  integrity 
of  their  respective  countries  are  at  stake ! 

In  spite  of  this,  our  dreamers  will  tell  you  that  chemical  warfare  is  to  be 
banned  by  civilized  nations.  You  never  heard  a  real  American  chemist  inti- 
mate any  such  damned  nonsense.  He  knows  it  is  the  future  weapon  for  all 
wars  from  now  henceforth.  The  type  of  man  striving  to  relegate  chemical 
warfare  to  antiquity  is  just  that  type  who  decried  the  use  of  gunpowder  in 
place  of  spears.  When  we  have  the  most  effective  weapon  of  all  time,  when 
we  are  made  to  realize  that  this  weapon  is  the  most  humane  ever  introduced 
into  war  by  man,  and  when  we  come  to  know  that  the  nation  most  advanced 
scientifically  is  the  nation  who  will  have  the  greatest  advantage,  pray  what 
kind  of  being  is  he  who  will  have  us  revert  to  savagery,  making  of  war  a  sort 
of  huge  slaughterhouse? 

The  next  war,  which  will  come  in  its  time,  will  be  waged  entirely  with  chemi- 
cals and  high  explosives,  usually  together.  Combatants,  as  well  as  noncom- 
batants,  will  be  supplied  with  suits  of  armor — a  la  Jules  Verne's  "  Men  from 
Mars  "^the  mask  in  itself  will  not  suffice.  The  old-time  military  manoeuvers 
must  give  way  to  chemical  discipline.  Airships  iind  dirigibles  will  constitute 
our  flying  squadrons  for  offense  and  defense  and  our  land  armies  for  future 
struggles  will  be  officered  entirely  by  trained  chemists.  Together  with  the 
"Aery "  and  Army,  we  shall  have  need  of  the,  fast  cruisers  of  our  Navy ; 
cruisers  with  airplane  landings,  and  also  submarines,  no  doubt  similarly 
equipped.  The  aerial  torpedo  will  have  come  into  its  own  and  be  made  the 
carrier  of  our  poison  gases.  Our  battleships  are  things  of  the  past.  Tlie 
Washington  Conference  now  in  session  might  just  as  well  make  the  whole  leap 
as  only  a  part.  Destroy  all  battleships.  They  are  of  absolutely  no  use  what- 
soever either  in  offense  or  defense  and  it  will  be  a  godsend  to  man  to  be  rid 
of  such  monstrosities.  Their  only  possible  use  today  is  as  scarecrows  for 
smaller  nations.  Give  me  a  spot  well  protected,  such,  for  example,  as  the 
Dardanelles.  Give  me  a  couple  dozen  airships  well  equipped  with  high  explo- 
sives and  chemicals.  Allow  me  a  hundred  or  more  aerists  and  I  will  defy  the 
combined  fleets  of  the  world.  Not  one  vessel  could  ever  get  close  enough  to  us 
to  do  any  material  damage;  we  should  not  attempt  to  sink  a  single  battleship. 
Why  waste  heavy  ammunition  when  it  is  so  simple  a  task  to  annihilate  the 
crews ! 

Let  us  now  turn  our  attention  to  Germany.  Let  us  visit  the  Badische- 
Anilin  und  Soda-Fabrik  at  Ludwigshafen,  and  there  note  the  manufacture  of  a 
single  dye.  Let  us  take,  for  example,  indigo,  where  some  800,000  pounds  per 
month  constitute  the  output  of  one  plant.  Alcohol  is  passed  over  heated  alu- 
mina, thus  becoming  completely  dehydrated  into  ethylene.  Tliis  gas  is  then 
led  into  chlorine- water  (or  its  equivalent)  and  the  ethylene  chlorohydrin  thus 
resulting  is  concentrated  to  the  desired  strength,  whereupon  it  is  heated  with 
aniline  and  the  oily  residue  fused  with  caustic  potash.  From  this  fusion  indigo 
is  at  once  obtained  by  solution  in  water  and  oxidation  by  air.  Were  Germany 
to  be  drawn  into  war,  this  entire  plant  may  l)e  converted  into  a  mustard  gas 
plant  in  less  than  an  hour's  time.  In  place  of  the  aniline  in  the  indigo  process 
above,  a  cheap  chemical — sodium  sulfide  (obtained  by  the  reduction  of  Glau- 
ber's salt  with  coke) — is  substituted,  and  the  homogeneous  solution  thus  ob- 
tained is  concentrated  and  treated  in  large  tanks  with  hydrochloric  acid.  The 
oil  product  settling  out  at  the  bottom  is  the  well-known  mustard  gas  and  may 
be  drawn  off  at  will.     Truly  this  particular  plant  is  a  slumbering  arsenal  and 


2566  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

the  greatest  of  its  kind  today.  Had  Germany  won  tlie  war,  do  you  think  that 
she  would  have  pennitted  the  du  Pont  powder  plants  or  the  Springfield  arsenal 
to  resume  business?  Would  not  any  normal  child  be  able  to  answer  this  ques- 
tion correctly?    And  yet  our  savants  of  Versailles  could  not  understand! 

As  with  the  indigo  process,  so  with  many  other  processes  used  in  dye 
plants  in  Germany,  each  with  a  hidden  terror  for'  her  enemies.  Those  of  U3 
who  have  studied  the  situation  and  have  felt  it  our  bounden  duty  to  acquaint 
every  true  American  with  the  conditions  as  they  stand  are  constantly  meeting 
with"  men  blind  by  nature  and  men  so  stubborn  that  reason  itself  seem  to 
have  left  them,  it  is  not  for  the  chemical  industry  alone  we  plead.  Far, 
far  beyond  lies  our  vision!  And  we  pray  in  all  sincerity  for  the  awakening 
of  this  country  to  the  importance  of  chemistry  in  every  industry.  From  an 
agricultural  country  we  have  graduated  into  an  industrial  country.  Indus- 
tries make  for  advancement  of  the  Nation  as  Germany  has  so  of  en  pro- 
claimed. An  agricultural  country  can  never  wield  an  influence  in  international 
affairs. 

Upon  the  growth  of  our  industries  rests  now  or  never  the  future  great- 
ness of  America.  Ninety-seven  percent  of  our  manufacturing  output  is  con- 
sumed in  this  country.  Our  agricultural  products  are,  to  a  large  extent,  ex- 
ported, but  now  with  our  increased  industrial  capacity,  as  a  result  of  war 
activities,  why  not  turn  tlie  excess  of  cotton,  of  wheat,  and  of  corn  into  finished 
products  for  our  own  consumption?  It  is  this  great  opportunity  for  chemical 
endeavor  that  commands  our  immediate  attention.  We  must  develop  chemi- 
cally if  we  are  to  attain  that  highest  enlightenment  destined  for  men.  There 
is  no  other  option.  Men  must  think  in  terms  of  chemistry,  whether  they  be 
engaged  in  agriculture,  mining,  or  manufacture.  This  is  the  greatest  lesson 
of  the  World  War. 

Take,  for  example,  the  question  of  fertilizers.  Enormous  quantities  are 
used  in  every  State  of  the  Union,  and  yet  when  we  face  the  actual  figures  of 
ammonium  sulfate  unrecovered  from  the  byproducts  in  the  burning  of  coking 
coal  in  this  country,  we  are  amazed.  For  instance,  in  Michigan,  $4,887,253  was 
paid  in  1919  for  commercial  fertilizers  and  during  that  same  year  $1,080,300 
worth  of  ammonium  sulfate  was  wasted  in  the  burning  of  1,385,000  tons  of 
coking  coal.  Can  we  call  this  efiiciency?  And  yet  more  appalling  still  are 
those  figures  which  represent  the  amount  of  benzene,  toluene,  xylene,  and  other 
products  obtained  from  the  coal  tar  itself,  likewise  wasted  in  this  and  all 
States. 

Atmospheric  nitrogen  is  now  employed  by  foreign  countries  in  the  manu- 
facture of  fertilizers,  though  in  this  country  we  have  scarcely  passed  the  ex- 
perimental stage.  The  Muscle  Shoals  plant,  erected  at  an  enormous  cost  by 
the  Government  for  the  preparation  of  ammonia,  is  now  idle — in  fact,  it  never 
did  function —  and  if  ever  our  Government  is  to  show  its  eflScient  organization, 
not  a  moment,  should  pass  till  that  plant  is  set  into  operation  for  the  benefit 
of  our  lands.  Henry  Ford  deserves  highest  conmiendation  for  his  munificient 
offer  to  the  Government  to  take  over  and  operate  the  plant  upon  a  practical 
basis,  holding  it  in  readiness  for  Government  purposes  in  case  of  war.  No 
other  individual  or  pi-ivate  organization  has  made,  nor  is  likely  to  make,  so 
flattering  an  offer  to  the  Government  as  that  announced  by  Henry  Ford.  We 
sincerely  hope  that  our  authorities  will  sense  the  importance  of  this  plant  to- 
the  betterment  of  our  lands  and  to  the  industries  of  the  country  in  time  of 
peace  as  well  as  in  time  of  war. 

The  dye  industry,  in  particular,  claims  the  interest  of  every  true  American. 
He  realizes  that  here  are  untold  possibilities  for  a  marvelous  future.  Why 
should  not  America  lead?  Shall  we  again  permit  Germany  to  conquer  the 
markets  of  the  world  in  this  field  as  in  many  others?  Germany  has  once 
more  established  herself  in  many  countries  as  the  leader  in  this  industry. 
Witness,  for  example,  Mexico,  where  the  German  dyes  are  now  again  supplied 
in  linutless  quantity.  For  the  establishment  of  the  dye  industry,  it  is  absolutely 
necessary  that  we  be  given  the  strongest  possible  protection,  such,  for  example, 
as  may  obtain  from  a  dye  embargo.  Such  an  embargo  was  asked  for  as  an 
additional  clause  to  the  Fordney  tariff  bill,  but  the  "class  legislation"  bogy 
scared  our  Congressmen,  as  they  feared  a  continual  line  of  other  class  pro- 
tections. Our  Congressmen,  however,  are  for  the  most  part  lawyers  and 
cannot  see  through  chemical  eyes.  It  is  the  bounden  duty  of  all  Americans  who 
understand  this  subject  to  demcmstrate  to  our  Congressmen  the  great  need 
of  building  up  our  chemical  industries.     The  protection  of  chemistry  in  this 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2567 

country  is  clearly  demonstrable  as  something  far  more  important  than  the 
building  of  forts  and  fleets.  "  Class  legislation "  in  this  instance  becomes 
translatable  into  "  fundamental  legislation."  Many  of  you  will  wonder  why 
we  need  any  legislation  beyond  tliat  protecting  our  general  industries.  Let 
us  pause  here  to  consider  the  cost  of  experimentation  alone  in  the  chemical, 
physical,  and  engineering  fields.  Witness,  for  example,  the  first  commercial 
production  of  indigo  in  America.  The  first  pound  of  synthetic  indigo  laid  on 
the  desk  of  the  President  of  the  Dow  Chemical  Company  in  December  1916 
cost  our  company  upwards  of  $4.50,000.  From  that  year,  selling  at  .$1.25  per 
pound,  the  process  has  undergone  constant  and  market  improvement  until 
today  it  is  selling  under  forty  cents  per  pound,  favorable  indeed  with  iirewar 
German  prices.  The  manufacture  of  dyes  calls  for  the  highest  mechanical 
skill  and  plant  supervision  in  the  field  of  organic  chemistry  and  the  various 
stops  in  these  processes  make  up  a  complex  surpassing  that  of  any  other  in- 
dustry. 

If  you  believe  in  America,  and  if  you  believe  that  we  can  succeed  without 
protection,  then  you  are  the  men  we  need,  and  we  shall  ask  you  at  once  for 
several  hundred  thousand  dollars  to  assist  us  in  oiir  endeavors.  Do  you  think 
you  are  likely  to  contribute  when  you  know  that  labor  in  Germany  is  paid  at 
the  rate  of  seventeen  cents  per  day,  whereas  we  must  pay  at  least  thirty  cents 
per  hour?  Do  you  think  you  will  contribute  when  you  know  that  a  chance  of 
foreign  dumping  in  this  country  is  always  at  our  door,  and  that  the  German 
importer  is  using  every  means  he  can  to  undersell  American  products?  I  know 
you  will  not  take  the  risk.  You  have  a  right  to  a  reasonable  rate  on  your 
investments,  and  I  don't  blame  you  for  this  lar-k  of  confidence  in  your  own 
Government.  Has  a  German  any  lack  of  confidence  in  his  Fatherland?  No, 
indeed,  his  Fatherland  protects  him  and  guarantees  to  him,  through  the  big 
cartels  that  the  losses  of  one  company  shall  be  averaged  with  the  gains  of 
another  and  the  profits  equally  distributed.  Germany  has  the  greatest  system 
of  protection  the  world  haf^  ever  known.  When  they  see  that  an  imported 
article  interferes  with  their  industries,  they  outlaw  it.  Thus  the  importation 
of  rubber  into  Germany  in  the  last  six  months  has  been  decried  and  its  further 
importation  seriously  handicapped. 

We  need  a  protecting  tariff,  a  tariff  that  is  not  based  on  fictitious  foreign 
values,  for  such  a  tariff  is  no  tariff  at  all.  We  must  make  up  in  some  way  for 
the  difference  in  cost  of  production  at  home  and  abroad,  especially  now  that  for- 
eign cost  of  production  is  practically  nil.  To  this  end.  Congressman  Fordney 
has  proposed  the  greatest  scientific  principle  ever  introduced  into  American 
tariff^ — that  of  the  American  valuation  plan.  It  stands  supreme  as  the  guiding 
star  to  a  bright  American  future,  and  Mr.  Fordney  desei*ves  the  praise  of  all 
true  Americans  for  the  steadfast  stand  he  has  taken  in  its  defense. 

The  German  importer  sees  in  the  American  valuation  plan  his  death  knell, 
and  veritably  it  is  so  written.  By  every  means,  no  matter  how  foul,  has  this 
dastardly  type  of  fake  American  tried  to  infiuence  our  Congressmen.  But  we 
are  proud  to  say  that  many  of  them  are  far  too  stalwart  to  succumb  to  the 
vicious  sting  of  these  German  Gila  monsters.  The  German  importer  is  any- 
thing but  ]iatriotic.  He  cares  nothing  for  America  and  looks  only  to  the  profits 
which  he  can  squeeze  out  of  the  American  people.  If  he  were  a  true  American, 
would  he  not  renounce  his  nefarious  business  and  seek  other  more  honorable 
pursuits?  No.  He  prefers  to  remain  the  depraved  and  immoral  reprobate  that 
be  is,  and  to  work  with  might  and  main  through  retail  merchants'  associations, 
farm  bureaus,  and  the  like,  to  influence  as  many  Congressmen  as  possible  to 
delay  the  pas.sage  of  the  tariff  bill.  What  a  contrast  to  this  debased  wretch 
is  that  prominent  American.  Charles  Schwab.  When  the  Washington  confer- 
ence proclaimed  that  the  battleship  fleets  would  be  reduced  in  number  and 
that  a  ten-year  holiday  in  ca])ital  shipbuilding  would  be  inaugurated,  did  you 
find  this  man,  manager  of  one  of  the  greatest  shipbuilding  yards  in  the  world, 
bewailing  his  fate?  No.  He  is  a  true  American.  Scarcely  a  day  elapse<^l 
before  he  announced  that  he  stood  for  disarmament  and  that  his  great  ship- 
building yards  would  be  turned  to  other  pursuits.  What  more  striking  con- 
trast could  we  have  between  this  man,  Charles  Schwab,  the  American,  and  such 
types  as  H.  A.  Metz,  Kutroff.  Pickard,  and  other  German  importers? 

The  American  industrialist  must  needs  smile  to  himself  and  wonder  what 
new  foi-m  of  insanity  has  l)een  evolved  when  he  reads  of  those  asinine  state- 
ments of  the  so-called  "international  bankers."  They  see  only  through  foreign 
8.S876 — 3.5— PT  11 12 


2568  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

glasses.  They  maintain  tliat  America  must  buy  foreign  products  in  order  that 
our  money  shall  revert  to  European  c(juntries  and  thus  make  it  p^wsible  for 
them  to  pay  off  their  indebteihiess  to  us.  Why  should  American  industries  be 
completely  annihilated  in  order  for  the  foreign  countries  to  pay  this  indebted- 
ness V  Would  it  not  be  a  wiser  and  more  sane  act  for  our  Government  to  con- 
sider the  indebtedness  on  Ihe  other  side  and  let  us  pay  the  indebtedness  to  them 
as  a  compromise?  Let  us  devote  this  sum,  so  fast  as  paid  in,  to  the  upbuilding 
of  devastated  areas  of  Europe  and  the  world.  This  is  practically  the  sugges- 
tion m:ule  by  Mr.  Frank  A.  Vanderlip,  to  which  such  praise  is  given.  But  has 
it  never  occurred  to  these  international  bankers  that  there  are  other  things  that 
one  can  purchase  besides  the  products  of  American  industry?  Why  not  sell  to 
us  those  millions  of  dollars'  worth  of  South  American  bonds?  Why  not  sell  us 
tracts  of  land  in  the  West  Indies  and  thereabouts?  Sell  us  anything  under  the 
heavens,  but  don't  sell  us  what  we  are  trying  to  make.  I  would  that  each 
international  banker,  in  his  sane  moments,  if  such  occur,  might  purchase  a 
farm  and  raise  products  for  the  market  and  for  his  livelihood.  What  would  he 
say  when  told  that  he  must  buy  his  potatoes  and  wheat,  and  such  like,  from 
foreigners?  And  yet  that  is  exactly  what  he  is  asking  the  American  indus- 
tries to  do.  I  fear,  even  were  he  half-witted,  he  would  refuse  to  consider  any 
such  dealings. 

All  of  the  objections  to  the  Fordney  tariff  bill,  the  embargo  on  dyes,  and  espe- 
cially to  the  American  valuation  plan  come  directly  from  the  German  importers. 
They  are  united  against  America  and  against  all  that  America  can  become. 
There  is  not  one  single  practical  argument  which  they  have  ever  raised  that  can 
stand  up  against  the  array  of  facts  marshalled  in  favor  of  these  measures. 

The  influence  which  these  debased  German  importers  have  been  able  to  wield 
among  our  Congressmen  is  indeed  disheartening  to  all  true  Americans,  when  we 
know  that  prosperity  cannot  return  until  the  tariff  is  made  a  law  and  that  there 
will  be  no  chance  of  even  a  minor  prosperity  until  that  time.  Is  it  not  possible 
to  awake  Congress  to  the  situation;  to  show  them  huw  these  German  Gila 
monsters  are  endeavoring  in  every  possible  way  to  thwart  the  action  of  Con- 
gress? Are  there  not  enough  Congressmen  of  real  red  American  blood  able  to 
force  through  that  tariff,  which  nlone  spells  prosperity?  Many  have  tried  to 
fexplain  this  period  of  depression  and  show  how  it  will  slowly  pass.  Much  of 
what  is  said  may  be  true,  but  unless  we  have  the  tariff  there  can  be  no  return 
for  the  betterment  of  American  industries ;  and  unless  we  better  the  American 
industries  today,  their  chances  for  growth  are  frightfully  impaired.  Indeed, 
many,  many  years  of  endeavor  would  be  required  ere  they  could  hope  to  gain 
world  sway  against  the  industries  of  Germany  and  other  countries,  strong  now 
and  ever  waxing  stronger. 

We  may  talk  of  disarmament  and  peace,  but  there  will  be  no  peace  until 
Germany  is  made  to  realize  that  America  stands  preeminent ;  that  our  industries 
surpass  their  industries  and  those  of  all  other  countries.  In  this  war  after  the 
war  our  battle  cry  must  be  "  To  hell  with  all  German  importers !  Down  with 
every  thing  opposed  to  American  industries !  "  Let  us  have  a  tariff  that  protects 
Americans.  Let  us  be  sufficient  unto  ourselves  so  far  as  our  heaven-given 
resources  will  permit.  Why  should  we  fear  to  cast  out  the  German  importer? 
Have  we  not  destroyed  the  saloon  keeper  and  his  curse,  many  of  whom  were  true 
Americans  at  heart?  If  we  do  not  work  to  this  end  and  our  Congressmen  do  not 
realize  the  importance  of  industrial  growth  for  our  future  greatness,  there  is 
only  a  limited  future  stretching  out  before  us. 

As  I  now  reflect  upon  my  student  days  in  Germany,  I  well  recall  that  toast 
that  my  old  professor  so  often  proposed  as  we  sat  together  on  a  summer  after- 
noon in  our  favorite  beer  garden,  "  Hoch  der  Kaiser,  Deutschland  iiber  AUes, 
Mohr  Kraft  den  Demokraten  der  Vereinigten  Staaten."  I  thought  he  referred 
more  particularly  to  his  son,  a  Democrat  in  Tennessee,  but  now  I  know  that  he 
meant,  "  Give  the  Democrats  and  German-Americans  more  power  and  a  hold  on 
free  trade  and  America  becomes  the  vassal  of  Germany."  Our  raw  products  will 
be  exported  to  the  Fathei-land  and  there  converted  into  finished  goods ;  then  re- 
turned to  us  that  we  agriculturalists,  miners,  and  shepherds  may  eat  and  be 
clothed  withal,  and  be  happy  in  serving  our  beloved  master,  Deutschland ! 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2569 


Exhibit  No.  915 
[File,  John  H.  McNeely] 


March  25,  iy21. 


Mr.  John  H.  MoNebly, 

101  District  National  Bank  Bldff.,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Deiab  Ma  McNeely  :  I  am  returning  the  story  received  from  you  this  morning 
with  some  changes  in  the  introductory  paragraph,  which  I  hope  you  will  approve. 

We  are  making  every  effort  tn  take  this  fight  out  of  the  held  of  mere  tariff 
production  to  a  new  industry.  You  will  noti<-e  that  the  recent  literature,  includ- 
ing the  articles  in  the  book  to  which  you  refer,  deals  with  the  question  of  dis- 
armament. The  clauses  in  the  iieace  treaty  virtually  require  the  destruction  of 
plants  in  Germany.  If  this  cannot  be  accomplished,  then  the  next  best  thing  is 
to  have  similar  plants  built  here  so  that  we  may  produce  the  new  chemical  war 
munitions  to  offset  the  production  in  an  enemy  country. 

It  is,  of  course,  a  fact,  and  is  quite  apparent,  that  American  dye  manufacturers 
want  to  protect  and  develop  their  industry  as  a  business  proposition,  Imt  we 
want  more  than  the  ordinary  tariff  for  the  reason  that  this  is  an  intricate  indus- 
try and  cannot  be  developed  excei»t  under  unusual  conditions.  It  really  requires 
the  absolute  embargo  of  competitive  products  so  that  we  can  secure  an  income 
over  the  sale  of  these  which  will  be  suflBcient  to  pay  for  the  development  of  the 
products  which  we  have  not  yet  learned  to  make. 

I  think  with  the  present  unsettled  condition  of  world  affairs,  and  with  Ger- 
many's attitude  toward  the  peace  treaty  argiiments  based  on  the  question  of 
disarmament  are  very  much  stronger  than  any  others. 

I  am  asking  the  Dyes  Institute  for  the  list  of  plants  which  you  want.     Mean- 
while, I  am  sending  you  a  letterhead  of  the  Dyes  Institute,  which  gives  the 
location  of  some  of  these  plants. 
Very  truly  yours, 

CKW/P  Publicity  Manager. 

Exhibit  No.  916 

[File  John  H.  McNeely] 

(From   room  101,   District  National   Bank  Building — Release  morning  papers 

Tuesday,  March  29) 

Washington,  March  28. — Supporting  the  contention  that  if  the  American 
Nation  is  to  be  prepared  and  is  to  be  safeguarded  for  future  wars,  development 
of  an  American  coal-tar  chemical  industry  is  imperative,  the  American  Dyes 
Institute  has  put  out  a  book  containing  an  elaborate  exposition  of  the  case  for 
the  American  people  and  a  plea  for  legislative  assistance  to  develop  the  industry 
and  permit  it  to  take  a  position  where  it  cannot  be  destroyed  by  competition 
from  (iermany.  The  book  has  been  issued  '•  to  the  American  people."  It  has 
been  sent  in  Washington  to  members  of  Congress  and  administration  oflBcials, 
and  is  a  notable  addition  to  the  arguments  already  made  by  the  Chemical  War- 
fare Service  for  protection  from  the  renewal  of  munitions  manufactured  in  the 
chemical  plants  of  Germany. 

In  addition  to  extracts  from  speeches  in  Congress  last  year  urging  passage 
of  protective  legislation,  the  book  carries  excerpts  from  writings  of  well-known 
authorities  familiar  with  the  industry  here  and  abroad  and  with  the  importance 
of  dyes  in  peace  and  war.  It  makes  a  strong  case  for  the  dyes  and  says  that 
with  an  efficient  dye-making  industry  no  nation  need  fear  disarmament,  but 
without  such  an  industry  the  disarmed  nation  would  be  at  the  mercy  of  any 
other  dye-making  nation  in  the  world.  It  points  out  how  quickly  a  nation  with 
an  adequate  dye  industry  can  expand  it  to  make  the  gases  with  which  Gennany 
almost  won  the  war  and  which  must  figure  so  prominently  in  all  future 
conflicts. 

"  Chemical  warfare ",  says  the  book,  "  developing  by  leaps  and  bounds 
throughout  the  Great  War,  has  assumed  commanding  importance.  In  the  last 
of  the  fighting  half  the  shells  used  were  designed  to  distribute  poison  gases, 
while  floods  of  noxious  vapors  were  launched  by  means  altogether  independent 
of  artillery.     Chemical  defense  against  these  substances  had  become  a  first 


2570 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 


essential.  By  the  same  token,  scientific  advances  in  the  way  of  discovery  of 
new  poisons,  or  new  methods  of  applying  old  poisons,  held  out  constant  possi- 
bilities of  instant  and  overwhelming  victory.  Already  projectiles — not  guns — 
had  been  developed  which  could  be  made  in  quantity  in  any  tube  works  and 
which  could  put  down  oceans  of  gas  at  a  range  of  a  mile.  The  science  was  and 
is  in  its  infancy,  but  already  the  chemists,  to  some  extent  without  the  aid  of 
any  existing  weapon,  and  to  an  overpowering  extent  in  conjunction  with  the 
older  equipment,  can  provide  an  attack  of  hitherto  unparalleled  efficiency,  while 
they  alone  can  offer  any  adequate  means  of  resistance." 

After  discussing  the  need  for  dye  chemists  and  dye  chemical  employees  the 
book  goes  on  to  say :  "Accordingly  no  nation  can  disarm  to  any  serious  extent 
unless  it  has  such  an  industry.  The  equipment  and  the  knowledge  necessary 
cannot  be  improvised,  nor  even  provided  beforehand  specially  for  war  purposes, 
and  kept,  during  peace,  unused.  Inactive  plants  deteriorate  and  indispensable 
trained  employees  cannot  be  kept  available  and  the  advance  of  science  is  so 
rapid  that  no  anticipation  of  the  Nation's  needs  can  succeed.  A  scientist  at 
work  with  only  the  simplest  apparatus  hidden  away  anywhere,  at  any  time, 
may  make  discoveries  which  render  all  previous  preparation  worthless.  Only 
the  incessant  intensive  research  constantly  necessary  in  the  dye  industry  can 
hope  to  keep  up  with  the  progress  of  the  science. 

"  Equipped  as  a  complete  dye  industry  equips  a  nation  with  facilities  for 
immediate  huge  production  of  the  needed  substances,  and  with  the  men  who 
have  the  necessary  knowledge,  no  nation  need  fear  to  limit  its  guns,  ships, 
planes,  and  tanks  proportionately  with  other  nations.  To  a  nation  not  so 
equipped  such  a  limitation  would  be  suicide.  In  a  disarmed  world  the  dye- 
making  countries  will  reign  supreme. 

"  Before  the  war  there  was  but  one  such  country.  Germany  supplied  the 
world  with  dyes.  In  the  war  her  dye  works,  without  material  changes,  sup- 
plied many  of  her  explosives,  all  her  gases,  and  all  the  technique  of  her  gas 
defense.  While  the  Allies  were  expending  years  and  tens  of  millions  in  build- 
ing plants  and  making  experiments,  she  was  producing  as  rapidly  as  she  thought 
necessary.  Had  she  realized  her  advantage  and  used  gas  at  the  outset  as  on  the 
later  scale,  the  Allies  could  never  have  resisted.  A  colossal  power,  fortunately 
but  half  understood,  was  in  her  hands,  and  in  hers  alone. 

"  Today  the  United  States  and  to  some  extent  Great  Britain  are  in  a  similar 
fortunate  position.  To  be  sure  of  maintaining  it,  the  British  have  embargoed 
German  dyes  for  10  years.  As  long  as  we  maintain  our  industry,  and  for  not 
one  moment  longer,  we  can  safely  plan  and  attempt  disarmament.  If  we  lost 
our  new  dye  industry  we  must  either  remain  armed  to  the  teeth  or  accept  the 
certainty  that  we  cannot  resist  an  attack  by  any  dye-making  country." 


Exhibit  No.  917 
PvMiGUy  tweau  expense,  years  1916  to  1934.  inclusive 


Year 

Total  (exclud- 
ing products 
publicity) 

Products 
publicity 

Year 

Total  (exclud- 
ing products 
publicity) 

Products 
publicity 

1916 

$9,  284. 34 
13,  238. 69 
21, 892.  79 
29, 724.  58 
31,698.34 
24,  378. 40 
18, 382. 83 
23, 423. 95 
26, 121. 66 
26, 536. 02 

1926 

$30, 355.  70 
34, 905.  93 

37. 203. 93 

32. 405. 94 
44, 042.  63 
33,  218. 85 
28, 648. 37 
29, 167. 45 

2  26, 004.  53 

1  $4, 512.  50 

1917 

1927     

22,  562.  50 

1918 

1928       

35, 591. 46 

1919                  -     -. 

1929 

53, 785. 39 

1920 

1930 

66, 134. 74 

1921 

1931 --- 

52, 630.  42 

1922            

1932-._ 

43,917.19 

1923 

1933 

1934.. 

49, 081.  69 

1924                      

2  55, 608. 15 

1925         

1  2  months,  November  and  December. 

2 10  months,  January  to  October,  inclusive. 


MUNITIOJiS    INDUSTRY  2571 

Exhibit  No.  918 

1918  and  1925 

American  Dyes  Institute $56,  588.  40 

Syutlietic  Organic  Cliemical  Manufacturers  Assn 60,  888. 17 

Manufacturing  Ctieniists  Association 1,  812.  .57 

American  Cliemical   Society 4,530.07 

Chemical  Alliance,  Inc 57-5.  00 

T.  R.  Shipp  Service 2,500.00 

John  McNeeley 3,  0:J3.  00 

Benjamin  Raleigh 100.  00 

Total 130,  027.  21 


Exhibit  No.  919 

[File — 115] 

[ Copy ] 

Copy  to:  Mr.  Iren^e  du  Pont,  Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont,  Mr.  R.  R.  M.  Carpenter, 

Mr.  W.  C.   Spruance,   Mr.   W.  F.   Harrington,   Mr.  J.  P.   Laffey,   Mr.   W.    S. 

Carpenter,  Jr. 

Paris,  Nov.  29,  1919. 
JVIr.  W.  S.  Carpentkk.  Jr.,  V.  P., 

E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co., 

Wilmington,  Del. 

Dear  Walter:  In  view  of  Judge  Laffey's  sailing  on  November  30th,  ahead 
01  the  date  on  wliich  Poucher  and  I  leave,  I  am  enclosing  some  papers  vphieh 
-will  supplement  our  cable  advices  and  give  you  some  material  for  discussion 
until  we  arrive  in  Wilmington  about  Christmas  time.  The  reasons  for  our 
waiting  until  the  Mauretania  will  be  seen  later  on  in  this  letter. 

Our  cables  numbered  one  to  twenty-four  give  an  accurate  view  of  our  ac- 
tivities since  October.  It  may  have  seemed  to  you  at  times,  in  view  of  the 
expression  in  your  cable  #2,  that  undue  time  was  spent  upon  matters  relating 
to  import  regulation  but  all  this  lias  been  of  the  greatest  help  in  bringing  about 
at  least  a  partial  realization  on  the  part  of  the  Germans  that  the  U.S.  market 
is  not  free  for  them  to  use  as  they  will. 

As  soon  after  we  return  as  possible  we  must  determine  just  what  we  should 
say  to  the  Alien  Property  Cust<xlian  concerning  our  action  in  the  ammonia 
matter  which  never  would  have  been  possible  at  all  but  for  the  Chemical 
Foundation.  The  sale  of  the  German  patents  to  the  foundation  has  been  a 
very  startling  thing  to  the  Germans  and  this  evidence  of  America's  power  has 
Obeen  a  great  factor  in  making  it  possible  to  deal  with  them. 

I  enclose  the  following  papers  which  can  be  discussed  at  once  though  I 
shall  of  course  try  to  have  ready  when  I  reach  home,  a  detailed  account  of  the 
moves  leading  up  to  the  conference;  1st,  a  letter  in  German  (written  by  Berg 
in  Ludwigshafen)  with  a  translation  thereof.  This  letter  while  written  by 
Berg  to  the  Badische  Co.  in  the  form  of  a  personal  reason  statement  as  to  why 
the  Badische  Co.  should  cooperate  with  du  Pont  Co.  is  based  on  discussions  of 
the  matter  with  Berg  before  his  departure  for  Germany;  2nd,  the  minutes  of 
the  conference  as  simimarized  from  his  notes  by  Dr.  Schwartz  and  a  transla- 
tion into  English  by  Dr.  Kunz;  3rd,  the  minutes  of  the  conference  In  English 
as  summarized  by  Dr.  Kunz  who  acted  as  our  secretary  and  with  Mr.  Berg  as 
interpreter. 

The  plan  is  for  each  side,  provided  the  general  plan  is  ratified,  to  prepare 
a  contract  based  on  the  general  plan  laid  down,  the  final  contract  that  is 
accepted  by  both  sides  probably  being  a  composite  of  the  two  contracts  sub- 
mitted respectively  by  Badische  and  du  Pont. 

You  will  note  that  the  minutes  as  written  make  no  reference  to  dyes.  This 
is  for  the  reason  that  the  agreement  in  the  I.G.  prohibits  discussion  without 
authority  from  the  I.G.  The  full  notes  of  the  meeting,  however,  which  are 
being  worked  up,  give  considerable  infoiination  as  to  the  attitude  on  this 
side  of  the  Badische  business,  but  it  was  outside  of  the  formal  conferences 
that  we  learned  Dr.  Bohn  was  determined,  if  it  was  at  all  possible,  to  find  a 


2572  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

way  of  direct  cooperation  with  du  Pont  Co.  in  dyes.  This  is  the  internal 
problem  referred  to  in  cable  #22.  The  size  of  the  ammonia  proposition  so  far 
exceeds  the  dye  matter  that  it  has  seemed  best  not  to  attempt  to  push  this 
affair  too  rapidly,  as  a  successful  ammonia  arrangement  certainly  would  lead 
at  once  to  a  dye  exchange. 

The  plan  has  been  for  Bosch  and  Duisberg  to  visit  the  U.S.  early  in  the  year, 
but  I  believe  that  Dr.  Bosch  is  going  to  be  inclined  to  go  slowly  in  such  a 
move  and  not  to  allow  the  I.G.  to  get  him  in  a  position  where  he  might  have 
unpleasant  contact  with  official  America.  Dr.  Bohn,  of  course,  being  a  Swiss 
citizen  could  come  to  U.S.  any  time.  Although  hard  pressed  during  the  war 
he  never  surrendered  his  Swiss  citizenship.  It  is  perfectly  clear  that  there 
are  two  contending  forces  in  the  Badische  board.  Apparently  the  sensible, 
modern  division  is  led  by  Bohn-Bosch  and  realizing  the  economic  situation  is 
determined  to  make  as  good  a  deal  as  possible  with  America  in  order  to  get 
ahead.  The  other  side  probably  responds  to  the  attitude  of  Duisberg  who 
apparently  still  believes  he  can  bully  the  U.S.  The  Badische  has  recently 
reorganized  and  we  shall  have  in  due  time  a  chart  which  Berg  will  get  for 
us  next  month.  Bosch  is  now  president  and  while  he  and  Bohn  will  not 
have  an  easy  time  with  some  of  the  other  directors,  I  feel  that  they  will  have 
their  way,  particularly  since  Badische's  position  on  account  of  the  ammonia 
process  is  considerably  better  than  that  of  the  other  members  of  the  I.G.  It 
may  be  that  the  I.G.  may  decide  to  deal  as  a  unit  in  the  U.S.  with  either 
National,  Grasselli,  or  ourselves.  At  any  rate  you  can  see  the  importance  of 
everlastingly  turning  the  regulatory  screw  in  America  both  as  to  control  of 
imports  and  future  protective  legislation. 

I  regret  very  much  that  Harry  Stephenson  has  been  agreed  upon  as  the 
Textile  Alliance  representative.  In  view  of  our  relations  with  Badische  you 
can  see  how  desirable  it  was  that  the  men  representing  the  Textile  Alliance 
be  drawn  from  the  ranks  of  the  consumers.  However,  we  shall  be  able  to 
give  sufficient  information  to  enable  Stephenson  to  help  the  Alliance  and  not 
compromise  us.  We  shall  be  glad  to  learn  just  the  details  as  to  what  went 
wrong  in  the  State  Dept.  and  War  Ti-ade  Board  that  allowed  the  under- 
strappers at  Ludwigshafen  to  boast  to  Herty  and  Fleisch  that  they  were  able 
to  deal  directly  with  their  old  agents.  Heading  this  off  was  a  fine  piece  of 
work  on  your  side  which  unfortunately  was  not  known  by  the  Germans  at  our 
Zurich  conference,  and  we  thought  it  better  to  let  them  find  it  our  rather 
than  get  it  from  us.  I  am  afraid  consumers  are  going  to  be  disappointed  in 
the  quantity  of  dyes  they  can  get  cheaply  under  the  reparation  plan,  but  the 
next  month  will  show  what  can  be  done.  Poucher  will  have  a  conference  with 
Stephenson  before  we  go.  We  have  Kunz  in  Paris  today,  but  we  want  to 
keep  him  out  of  this  end  of  the  game  from  now  on  as  he  may  be  asked  to  go 
over  to  Ludwigshafen  at  any  time. 

Our  return  to  London  is  for  two  reasons.  First,  Lord  Moulton  and  Turner 
showed  us  the  new  miniature  Leverkusen  at  Dalton  (Huddersfield)  with  the 
evident  idea  of  impressing  us  with  the  value  of  the  things  Levinstein  gouged 
out  of  the  Bayer  factory  in  the  British  section  of  the  occupied  territory.  They 
have  considerable  no  doubt,  but  I  do  not  believe  Great  Britain  is  going  to 
make  a  very  great  success  in  the  industry  and  as  our  cable  plainly  stated 
we  were  against  paying  any  more  money  for  second-hand  information.  We  ac- 
cordingly left  the  Levinstein  matter  hanging  and  will  now  see  whether  we  can 
so  arrange  as  to  have  the  British  Dyes  assume  the  L.  contract  with  some 
modifications.    Otherwise  we  shall  let  it  stand  as  it  is. 

We  also  wanted  to  see  Sir  Harry  McGowan,  but  will  have  to  see  Mitchell  in 
his  place,  as  we  understand  Sir  Harry  has  gone  to  U.S. 

When  we  were  in  Paris  we  learned  that  Semet  Solvay  had  been  endeavoring 
to  make  connections  with  Badische.  We  were  called  upon  by  Mr.  Brunner,  Col. 
Pollit  (technical  man)  and  Mr.  Gold  of  Brunner  Mond  &  Co.,  who  in  a  very 
inept  fashion  tried  to  find  out  just  what  we  were  doing.  This  was  before  we 
sent  Berg  into  Germany  to  begin  negotiations.  They  expressed  belief  in  the 
necessity  of  making  some  kind  of  a  deal  with  the  Badische  Co.  if  the  process 
was  to  be  instituted  successfull.v — .stated  that  they  understood  we  were  negotiat- 
ing with  Badische — were  we,  etc.  They  also  used  the  name  of  the  Explosives 
Trades,  Ltd.  in  a  fashion  from  which  we  might  conclude  that  they  had  come  to 
us  by  that  route.  The  situation  was,  as  you  can  see,  decidedly  embarrassing,, 
but  I  think  we  cleared  the  air  by  asking  Mr.  Brunner  if  he  wanted  us  to  cooper- 
ate with  him  in  securing  rights  to  the  technical  information.  He  shied  at  this 
and  after  a  little  talk  agreed  to  return  to  Paris  the  next  Wednesday  (this  was 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2573 

Friday,  Oct.  31)  to  discuss  the  situation.  I  had  told  them  that  we  had  reports 
on  the  situation  but  had  no  negotiations.  I  believed  they  were  on  a  fishing 
excursion — felt  sure  I  was  trying  to  mislead  them  and  would  endeavor  to 
connect  with  Badische  direct  without  further  word  with  us.  Please  note  that 
they  referred  bravely  to  alliances  when  talking  with  us — I  did  not  expect  them 
to  meet  their  engagement.  They  turned  up  neither  on  Wednesday  nor  Thurs- 
day, Nov.  5  and  6,  and  on  Thursday  evening  Nov.  6  Berg  left  for  Germany  to 
arrange  if  possible  for  a  conference.  Poucher  very  properly  was  insistent  on  a 
sifting  process  to  determine  whether  we  would  have  to  meet  some  of  the  old 
crowd  who  undoubtedly  would  be  very  antagonistic  to  him  and  us. 

We  knew  that  negotiations  were  under  way  between  Badische  and  the 
French  Government  but  in  what  form  we  could  not  tell.  When  Berg  left  for 
Mannheim  there  was  some  uncertainty  as  to  the  whereabouts  of  Dr.  Bosch  as 
we  knew  that  he  was  likely  to  be  called  to  Paris  by  the  French.  Berg  left  a 
letter  for  him  at  the  German  legation.  The  result  of  this  was  that  we  were 
called  up  Sunday  morning  Nov.  9  by  Mrs.  Berg  saying  Dr.  Bosch  was  at  her 
house  and  would  like  very  much  to  see  us.  Poucher,  the  judge,  and  I,  of  course, 
went  out  at  once.  We  found  Dr.  B.  a  thick-set  German  savant,  who  naturally 
was  a  bit  shy  under  the  circumstances.  He  explained  the  French  situation  to 
us  but  did  not  want  to  sign  up  with  them  until  he  felt  that  he  was  not  damag- 
ing his  chance  of  a  deal  with  us.  We  could  see  that  it  was  really  necessary 
for  him  to  make  this  agreement  and  told  him  to  go  ahead.  This  is  a  feature 
of  the  situation  to  which  some  attention  must  be  given  though  I  am  of  the 
opinion  that  if  we  do  this  at  all  France  will  be  buying  synthetic  sulfate  before 
she  makes  it.  The  contract  also  has  to  be  approved  by  the  Senate  and  may 
fail  there. 

It  was  agreed  with  Dr.  Bosch  to  have  the  Zurich  meeting  if  it  could  be 
arranged  when  he  returned  to  Mannheim  on  the  following  Wednesday — Berg's 
good  work  on  this  helped  with  the  result  you  have  seen.  Dr.  Bosch  confirmed 
my  belief  as  to  the  action  of  the  English  whom  he  accused  of  very  bad  manners 
to  say  the  least.  When  he  was  arranging  to  go  to  Zurich  he  had  a  telegram 
from  Brunner  asking  that  a  conference  be  arranged  for  in  Aachen.  I  suppose 
Bosch  is  now  arranging  for  a  conference  with  these  people,  whom  he  feels 
bound  under  the  conditions  to  listen  to,  for  sometime  in  December — I  hope 
after  we  have  sailed.  As  Brunner  called  upon  us  at  Berg's  oflSce  I  am  sending 
Berg  back  to  Germany  (when  Bosch  sends  him  word)  to  be  present  with  Bosch 
when  meeting  Brunner,  Mond  &  Co.  whom  he  will  advise  that  their  arrange- 
ment must  be  with  the  new  company.  I  am,  of  course,  anxious  that  there  be 
no  feeling  on  the  part  of  the  Explosives  Trades  Ltd.  that  they  will  liave  no 
chance  to  share  in  a  thing  of  this  kind  and  if  we  can  arrange  things  in  England, 
as  I  believe  we  can,  so  that  Brunner  Mond  if  they  are  working  with  Explosives 
Trades  Ltd.  cannot  lay  the  charge  of  poor  faith  at  our  door.  We  are  certain 
of  one  thing  however — we  never  had  any  intimation  from  either  Explosives 
Trades  or  Brunner  Mond  that  they  were  ready  to  share  with  us. 

This  I  think  gives  you  the  main  situation  which  with  the  enclosures  will  put 
you  in  pretty  good  shape  for  discussion  as  soon  as  we  retuni.  Judge  L.  will 
proceed  with  contract  preparation  along  the  line  of  the  conference  as  you  may 
suggest — if  the  idea  is  approved  as  the  result  of  your  study  of  the  nitrogen 
question.  Personally  I  hope  it  will  be  approved  as  I  think  we  have  a  chance 
now  to  do  something  really  big  in  chemical  work  and  particularly  in  the  fer- 
tilizer industry. 

Faithfully  yours,  Chas.  A.  Meade. 

Exhibit  No.  920 

Copy  to:  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Mr.  R.  R.  M.  Carpenter, 
Mr.  W.  C.  Spruance,  Mr.  W.  F.  Harrington,  Mr.  .T.  P.  Laffey,  Mr.  W.  S.  Car- 
penter, Ji\ 


(No  date.) 


Our  Wordings 


MINUTES   OF   A    MEETING    HELD    NOVKMRER.   20.    21.    22,    AH  THE   EAU1R   AU   LAO    HOTEI  , 

ZURICH,     SWITZERLAND 

There  were  present :  Dr.  R.  Bosch,  Dr.  R.  Bohn,  Dr.  I.  Schwarz,  representing 
the  Badische  Anilin  &  Sodatabiic,  Ludwi^schafen,  Germany,  referred  to  here- 
after as  Badische  Co.,  and  Ch.  A.  Meade,  M.  R.  Poucher,  J.  P.  LafEey,  Eysteni 


2574  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Berg,  E.  C.  Kunz,  representing  E.  I.  tlu  Pout  de  Nem,ours  Co.,  Wilmington,  Del- 
aware, U.  S.  A.,  referred  to  hereafter  as  the  du  Pont  Company. 

On  the  l)asis  of  a  letter  dated  November  12th.  1919,  addressed  to  the  Badische 
Co.,  by  Mr.  Eysten  Berg,  in  behalf  of  the  du  Pont  Co.,  in  which  was  ourlin^^d 
a  plan  for  cooperation  between  the  du  Pont  Co.  and  the  Badische  Co.,  for  the 
world  exploitation  of  the  Bosch-Haber  ammonia  process,  the  following  points 
were  discussed  and  agreed  upon  as  a  basis  of  a  final  contract. 

(1)  It  was  agreed  that  it  is  possible  to  form  a  comptiny  for  the  world  ex- 
ploitation of  the  Bosch-Haber  process. 

(2)  The  world  company  should  have  the  whole  world  as  its  market  except 
as  follows : 

(a)  France  with  whom  the  Badische  < 'o.  already  have  made  a  contract 
which  is  limited  to  the  manufacture  and  sale  only  in  France,  her  colonies, 
and  protectorates.  It  is  understood  that  should  the  French  fail  to  carry  out 
their  plans,  these  territories  should  be  included  in  those  assigned  to  the 
world  company. 

(5)  The  Badische  Co.  shall  be  granted  an  exclusive  territory  in  which  to 
exploit  the  process,  Germany  and  the  territory  known  as  Austria-Hungary  in 
1913. 

It  is  understood  that  the  Badische  Co.  shall  have  the  right  to  sell  in  all 
^Europe  the  products  of  its  plants  at  Oppau  and  Merseburg,  Gennany,  up  to 
the  equivalent  of  300,0(X)  tons  of  nitrogen  until  such  a  time  as  the  consump- 
tion in  the  exclusive  territory  of  the  Badische  Co.  will  absorb  this  production, 
when  the  Badische  Co.  sales  are  to  be  confined  to  its  exclusive  territory. 

The  world  company  is  to  give  if  necessary  a  special  license  to  England  to  be 
confined  to  the  production  of  nitric  acid  for  the  needs  of  the  British  Isles,  the 
returns  from  such  license  to  be  given  entirely  to  the  Badische  Co. 

The  Badische  Co.,  stating  that  they  have  tentative  negotiations  with  Japan 
for  the  process  agree  that  these  negotiations  be  held  in  susi)ense  until  proper 
action  can  be  taken  by  the  new  world  company. 

(3)  Capital  for  the  world  company  shall  be  furnished  by  the  du  Pont  Co. 
and  the  du  Pont  Oo.  shall  manage  the  business. 

(4)  Provided  conditions  warrant  the  initial  capacity  of  the  new  company 
should  be  a  plant  for  100,000  tons  nitrogen  per  year.  The  nitrogen  produced 
by  the  new  company  is  for  conversion  into  nitrates,  nitric  acid,  and  similar 
compounds  as  well  as  fertilizers,  by  the  processes  developed  in  connection  with 
the  Bosch-Haber  process  by  the  Badische  Co. 

Nitrogen  products  taken  by  the  du  Pont  Co.<  from  the  world  company  shall 
have  the  price  fixed  on  the  basis  of  the  market  pxice  of  sulfate  of  ammonia 
less  the  cost  of  conversion  of  ammonia  into  sulfate  of  ammonia. 

(5)  The  increase  in  production  capacity  shall  be  according  to  demands.  A 
<?ertain  minimum  production  shall  be  maintained. 

(6)  The  world  company  and  the  Badische  Co.  shall  exchange  free  infor- 
mations and  improvements  made  in  the  l)usiness  covered  by  the  contract. 

(7)  A  corporation  is  to  be  formed  of  which  the  Badische  Co.  is  to  receive 
'^%  of  the  total  stock  issue  in  exchange  for  its  information  and  its  ex;- 
perience  and  the  Badische  Co.  is  to  have  representation  on  the  board  of  the 
new  company  in  proportion  to  its  stock  holding. 

In  case  the  capital  is  increased  the  Badische  Co.  is  always  to  receive  a  like 
proportion  of  free  shares.  Tlie  capital  to  be  increased  as  the  production  ca- 
pacity increases.  The  Badische  Co.,  in  case  it  wishes  to  dispose  of  its  stock 
holding  shall  first  make  offer  of  such  holding  to  the  du  Pont  Co. 

(8)  The  du  Pont  Co.  will  undertake  the  plan  construction  of  the  world 
company  at  cost  plus  10%. 


Exhibit  No.  921 

EXTRACT  OF  LETTER  FlJOil   MR.   HERO   JANUARY    12,    11120 

Have  just  returned  from  Aachen,  where  I  met  Director  Bosch,  Director  Smith, 
and  Dr.  Schwarz,  of  the  Badische  Company. 

The  meeting  with  the  English  group  (Brunner  Mond  and  Solvay)  took  place 
yesterday  afternoon  at  the  Palast  Hotel,  in  Aachen. 

Before  the  meeting  I  talked  the  situation  over  with  Dr.  Bosch,  and  we  came 
to  the  conclusion  that  it  was  best  that  I  should  only  appear  at  the  meeting  if 
the  circumstances  required  it. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2575 

As  the  Badische  CJompany  and  we  have  not  signed  a  contract,  Dr.  Bosch 
thought  it  would  be  unwise  if  I  took  deal  in  the  meeting,  particularly  while  he 
was  determined  not  to  make  any  definite  arrangement  with  the  English  at  this 
time,  but  only  wished  to  hear  what  they  had  to  say. 

The  Badische  has,  as  you  know,  been  communicating  with  Brunner  Mond  for 
quite  some  time,  and  he  believed  the  Badische  should  see  them  alone  and  inform 
them  in  a  general  way  about  our  arrangement  as  far  as  the  world  exploitation  of 
the  ammonia  process  is  concerned. 

If  I  appeared  in  the  meeting  as  the  representative  for  the  du  Pont  Company, 
the  whole  matter  could  end  in  a  fight  and  be  very  disagreeable  for  the  Badische, 
that  had  not  advised  the  English  about  this  matter  before  they  came  to  Aachen. 

After  considering  the  matter,  I  came  to  the  conclusion  that  it  was  just  as  well 
that  I  did  not  participate  in  the  meeting,  particularly  as  I  was  on  the  spot,  and 
Dr.  Bosch  furnished  me  all  information  about  what  was  going  on. 

A.  The  following  is  the  result  of  the  meeting  at  the  Palast  Hotel,  Aachen,  the 
11th  of  January  1920.  The  information  received  from  Dr.  Bosch  and  by 
looking  through  Dr.  Schwarz's  report  of  the  meeting : 

Present : 

(1)  From  the  Badische:  Director  Dr.  Bosch,  Director  Smith  (Commercial 
Director  instead  of  Brunck),  Dr.  Sehwarz. 

(2)  Of  Brunner  Mond  Company:  Roscol  Brunner,  Mr.  Pollit,  Mr.  Gold,  Mr. 
Aron. 

(3)  Of  the  Solvay  Company:  Mr.  Gielen,  German  Director  of  Semi  Solvay  in 
Bernburg,  Mr.  Jansson,  Mr.  Hannon,  Mr.  Tourniere,  French  Directors  of  Semi 
Solvay. 

Mr.  Roscol  Brunner,  being  the  chief  spokesman  for  Brunner  Mond,  gave  the 
following  explanation : 

The  British  Government  has  handed  over  to  Brunner  Mond  and  Solvay  all 
their  work  and  experimental  plants  on  the  synthesis  of  ammonia  made  in 
England  during  the  war  on  the  condition  that  this  group  shall  arrange  with 
the  Badische  to  secure  the  Bosch-Haber  process  for  Great  Britain.  For  this 
reason  they  have  approached  the  Badische  for  the  purpose  of  buying  the  am- 
monia process. 

They  wanted  the  process  for  the  consumption  of  nitric  acid  and  other  chemical 
technical  purposes  for  England,  but  the  combination  made  with  the  Solvay 
Company  made  it  desirable  to  secure  the  process  for  all  purposes  and  for  the 
whole  world.  Semi  Solvay  being  established  over  the  whole  world  and  working 
in  connection  with  the  General  Chemical  Company  in  America  would  secure  the 
best  possible  guarantees  for  a  successful  introduction  of  the  process  for  the 
world  market. 

Dr.  BoscH.  We  have  already  made  an  arrangement  with  the  du  Pont  Company 
for  the  exploitation  of  our  process  for  the  world.  We  have  always  gone  out 
from  the  point  of  view,  that  we  should  be  directly  interested  in  such  a  proposi- 
tion. We  are  bound  to  the  du  Pont  Company  as  far  as  the  world  is  concerned 
and  you  will  have  to  discuss  this  matter  with  them. 

As  far  as  Britain  is  concerned  we  understand  that  you  wish  to  secure  the 
process  for  nitric  acid  and  other  technical  purposes  and  we  are  ready  to  discuss 
this  matter  with  you. 

We  wish  to  limit  this  license  to  these  purposes  only. 

R.  Bktjnnek.  We  must  have  the  right  not  only  for  Great  Britain  but  for  at 
least  the  British  Empire.  We  must  also  have  the  right  to  manufacture  sulphate 
of  ammonia  for  fertilizing  purposes. 

We  have  already  been  in  communication  with  the  du  Pont  Company  for  the 
purpose  of  exploiting  your  process  and  we  are  through,  "  Explosives  Trades  " 
in  close  relations  with  the  du  Pont. 

IMr.  PoLXJT.  Have  you  met  the  du  Pont  Company's  official  representatives 
lately? 

Dr.  Bosch.  Yes;  we  have  discussed  matters  with  them. 

Mr.  Jansson.  As  the  matter  stands  we  will  then  have  to  discus  a  world 
combination  with  the  du  Pont ;  as  Mr.  Gold  and  myself  intend  to  go  to  the  U.  S. 
on  January  28,  we  shall  see  the  du  Ponts  and  discuss  the  matter  with  them. 

Mr.  Gold.  The  best  thing  to  do  is  to  leave  the  whole  proposition  until  we  have 
talked  the  matter  over  with  Du  Pont,  in  order  that  we  may  come  to  an  under- 
standing and  avoid  unnecessary  competition. 

Dr.  Bosch.  I  am  ready  to  discuss  the  matter  as  far  as  Great  Britain  is  con- 
cerned, but  I  leave  it  entirely  to  the  Du  Ponts  to  arrange  as  far  as  the  world 
company  is  concerned. 


2576  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

I  wish  you  to  bear  in  mind  that  our  process  may  not  be  as  advantageous  as 
you  believe  under  the  present  difficult  conditions. 

The  plant  cost  will  naturally  be  high  now  and  we  have  also  the  competition 
with  the  Chile  saltpeter  and  coke-oven  fimnionia   to  reckon  with. 

Under  pre-war  conditions  our  process  is  far  ahead  of  any  other  competitor, 
but  the  conditions  may  have  changed  the  prosperous  outlook.  This,  I  am, 
however,  )iot  able  to  judge,  as  I  do  not  know  the  conditions  in  other  countries. 

Mr.  roi  LIT.  Leave  that  entirely  to  us.  We  know,  perhaps,  better  the  nitrogen 
situation  at  the  present  than  you  do. 

We  have  looked  carefully  into  it  and  we  are  sure  that  there  is  no  fear  of 
competition  from  Chile  saltpeter.  We  ai'e  convinced  that  your  process  is  the 
process,  and  by  going  hand  in  hand  with  the  coke-oven  ammonia  people,  we 
would  be  able  to  dominate  the  world  market. 

We  must  in  any  case  have  the  process  for  the  British  Empire  and  also  for 
fertilizer  purposes. 

Dr.  Bosch.  This  can  only  be  discussed  after  you  have  seen  the  Du  Fonts  in 
Wilmington. 

Mr.  Brunnek.  Then,  we  leave  the  matter  open  in  such  a  way  that  we  will 
see  you  after  we  have  discussed  the  matter  in  Wilmington. 

The  above  covers  in  the  big  lines  the  discussion.  The  meeting  was  a  short 
one.  Dr.  Bosch  left  the  English  and  came  to  me  and  we  discussed  again  the 
situation.  We  agreed  that  there  was  no  reason  for  me  to  appear,  as  the  English 
group  is  sending  representatives  to  Wilmington,  and  you  had  not  given  me  any 
authority  to  act  on  your  behalf. 

The  English  i>eople  do  not  know  that  I  have  been  in  Aa<:hen  or  the  next  room 
in  the  Palast  Hotel,  and  I  believe  this  way  to  handle  the  matter  from  my  side 
was  the  best  thing  to  do. 

Dr.  Bosch  requests  me  to  tell  you  that  if  the  English  should  say  that  he 
(Dr.  Bosch)  has  agreed  upon  to  give  them  full  rights  for  the  whole  British 
Empire,  also  for  fertilizer,  this  is  not  the  case.  Nothing  definite  has  been 
arranged  no  memorandum  has  been  exchanged.  The  whole  was  an  informal 
discussion  pending  upon  what  kind  of  arrangement  the  English  group  may  make 
with  you  in  Wilmington. 

The  outstanding  points  of  the  meeting  are: 

(a)  The  English  group  claims  they  are  working  under  direction  of  the  Eng- 
lish Government. 

This  is  absolutely  contradictory  to  the  statement  made  by  Lord  Moulton  to 
Mr.  Mead. 

(b)  The  English  group  is  convinced  that  the  Badische's  process  is  the  best 
and  wish  to  secure  it  for  the  whole  world. 

(c)  They  insist  upon  at  least  to  obtain  license  for  the  British  Entpire  not 
only  for  nitric  acid  and  technical  purposes  but  also  for  fertilizers. 

(d)  They  did  not,  and  know  still  nothing  about  our  meeting  in  Zurich. 
They  do  not  know  anything  about  our  tentative  agreement  with  exception 

of  what  Dr.  Bosch  told  them,  that  the  Badische  is  going  to  be  Interested  in 
the  new  company. 

(e)  Brunner  Mond  claims  near  connection  with  Explosive  Trade  and  through 
them  with  us. 

(f)  Nothing  has  been  decided  upon;  all  is  pending  upon  our  standpoint  and 
all  further  discussions  have  been  postponed  until  Messrs.  Gold  and  Jansson 
return  from  America  and  have  talked  with  you. 


Exhibit  No.  922 

[File  99] 

Waedman  Pabk  Hotel, 
Washington,  D.  C,  January  22,  1920. 
iRtiatE  DU  Pont,  Esq., 

Wilmmgton. 
Deab  Mr.  du  Pont:  Situation  clearer  and  better  today. 

Martin  and  tlie  major  are  hard  at  it.  The  plan  is  to  push  and  keep  Wood  in 
the  background ;  that  is  behind  Culbertson.  Martin  and  the  major  are  to  fight 
it  out  with  Culbertson  by  agreement  with  Sen.  Curtis. 

They  will  take  anything  from  Culbertson  that  will  help  embargo  and  nothing 
that  will  hurt. 


MUNITIOlSrS    IN^DUSTRY  2577 

The  major  will  likely  propose  that  as  this  is  a  measure  touching  "  national 
defence",  the  Commission  should  be  headed  by  Gen.  Siebert  to  give  it  the 
flavor  of  defence  rather  than  tariff,  the  other  members  to  be  one  each  from 
Treas.,  TarifE  Board,  dye  makers  and  consumers. 

No  call  as  yet  from  the  Sub.  Com.  for  the  dye  manufacturers.     My  guess 
is  it  will  not  come  before  next  week  but  if  it  does  I  will  phone  you. 
Sincerely, 

POUCHEIR. 


Exhibit  No.  923 

IPublicity    Bureau    momorandum    fur    information   on    il.ve    tariff   bill — legislation — rtyps) 

NOVEMBEK  10,  1919. 
*  X7.1-1. 
Personal. 
Mr.  H.  B.  Rust. 

The  Coppers  Ccmipany,  Pittshurgh,  Pa. 

Dear  Sir:  Our  chemical  department  has  started  to  get  up  the  information 
which  you  asked,  about  the  amount  of  coke  oven  byproducts  which  enter  into 
the  making  of  dyes.  Their  data  will  deal  not  only  with  the  du  Pont  Com- 
pany but  with  the  American  dye  industiy  as  a  whole,  and  I  hope  to  have  it 
ready  for  you  in  a  short  time. 

Col.  John  P.  Wood  can  be  addressed  at  22nd  and  Spring  Garden  Streets, 
Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Mr.  du  Pont  thinks  that  a  word  from  you  to  Joseph  R.  Grundy  of  Bristol, 
Pa.,  would  be  very  valuable  to  our  organization.  Mr.  Grundy  and  Col.  Wood 
are  very  closely  allied,  and  Mr.  Grundy  is  an  important  factor  in  the  eastern 
part  of  the  State.  We  are  informed  that  he  would  be  glad  of  recognition  by 
interests  in  the  western  part  of  the  State,  and  that  if  he  could  he  shown  that 
Pittsburgh  and  vicinity  have  a  vital  interest  in  the  pending  legislation  he 
might  withdraw  nmch  of  his  opposition,  which  is  based  on  what  he  believes  to 
be  the  sentiment  of  his  own  section. 

I  would  be  glad  to  talk  tliis  over  with  you  on  the  phone  at  your  convenience. 
I  understand  that  you  will  not  l^e  in  Pittsburgh  for  some  time,  but  if  you  are 
within  phone  call,  either  there  or  elsewhere,  I  would  be  glad  to  talk  the  matter 
>over  with  you. 

Very  truly  yours.  . 

■CKW/MAP 

Exhibit  No.  924 


[I'liblicity   Bui'eau   fllo :    I'oucher.    M.    R.     Corrospondpnce,   dye] 

M.\KCH  23,  1920. 

File:  2763-MRP. 
Mr.  Joseph  H.  Choate,  Jr., 

60  Wall  Street,  New  York  Citi). 
My  Deab,  Me.  Choate:  I  have  lieen  trying  to  get  you  on  long  distance  this 
afternoon  to  tell  you  that  I  have  just  received  a  telegram  from  our  mutual 
friend,  Mr.  Franklin  W.  Hobbs,  of  Boston,  reading  as  follows : 

"  I  attended  a  conference  on  dyestuffs  with  several  manufacturers,  at  Mr. 
Wood's  office  this  morning.  His  counsel,  Mr.  Aurebach.  was  als'O  present.  I  am 
confident  that  Mr.  Wood  is  now  ready  to  change  his  amendments  so  that  they 
will  meet  Mr.  Choate's  approval.  I  am  convinced  Mr.  Wood  favors  your  bill. 
I  am  to  meet  Mr.  Aurebach  again  tomorrow,  Wednesday  morning,  for  further 
conference." 

(Signed)     Franklin  W.  Hobbs. 

Immediately  upon  receipt  of  this  message.  I  got  Mr.  Hobbs  on  long  distance, 
and  he  gave  me  the  story  of  wliat  took  place  at  their  meeting  this  morning.  It 
appears  that  Mr.  Hobbs  took  upon  himself  to  write  Mr.  Wood  a  letter  a  few 


*  Personal   marking. 


2578  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

days  ago,  pointing  out  the  danger  of  not  only  his  own  position  but  that  of  the 
entire  textile  industry  in  opposing  this  bill. 

Incidentally,  Mr.  Hobbs  called  Mr.  Wood's  attention  to  the  movement  under 
way  by  the  Department  of  Justice  to  investigate  the  textile  industry  on  the 
charge  of  undue  profiteering.  At  any  rate,  Mr.  Wood  decided  to  call  this  meet- 
ing. Mr.  Hobbs  tells  me  he  made  a  statement  along  the  lines  of  Mr.  Hobbs' 
letter.  This  was  followed  by  some  remarks  by  Mr.  Auerbaeh,  to  the  effect 
that  in  his  opinion  these  mills  should  all  support  the  bill. 

I  told  Mr.  Hobbs  that  I  thought  the  proper  procedure  would  be  for  Mr.  Auer- 
baeh to  see  you  immediately  upon  his  return  from  New  York  (either  Thursday 
evening  or  Friday  morning),  and  if  the  amendment  proposed  by  him  met  with 
your  approval,  it  could,  with  the  consent  of  Mr.  Wood,  yourself,  and  Senator 
Watson,  be  brought  up  in  conference ;  provided,  of  course,  that  Mr.  Wood  with- 
draws the  four  amendments  and  so  notifies  Senator  Watson. 

If  we  can  get  these  four  amendments  out  of  the  way  by  some  arrangement 
with  Mr.  Auerbaeh,  then  the  next  step  will  be  to  get  rid  of  the  Moses  amend- 
ments in  the  same  manner,  through  the  influence  of  Mr,  Wood  and  Mr.  Auer- 
baeh, if  within  the  range  of  possibility. 

I  am  going  back  to  Washington  tonight  and  will  be  at  the  Wardman  Park 
Hotel  for  the  next  few  days. 

I  repeated  Mr.  Hobbs'  telegram  to  Judge  (Jovington  over  the  telephone;  and 
the  suggestion  to  take  the  Auerbaeh  amendment,  if  acceptable,  into  conference 
instead  of  introducing  it  on  the  floor  of  the  Senate  comes  from  him. 
Yours  very  truly, 

(S)       H.    R.    POUCHER. 

LPL 


Exhibit  No.  925 

File— 115 
[Copy] 

41  Avenue  de  l'Opeba. 
Paris,  Februari/  3,  1920. 

Copy  to:  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont,  Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont,  Mr.  C.  A.  Meade,  Mr. 

M.  R.  Poucher. 
Subject :  Our  negotiations  with  the  Badische. 
Attention  also :  Messrs.  Laffey,  Mead,  and  Poucher. 
E.  I.  DU  Pont  db  Nbmouks  &  Co., 

Development  depa/rtment,  Wilmington,  Delaware. 

Dear  Sirs  :  Referring  to  my  letter  of  January  27tli  on  this  subject,  I  beg  to 
inform  you  that  further  interviews  with  as  well  Dr.  Bosch  as  Dr.  Duisberg 
in  the  big  lines  have  conflnned  the  facts  outlined  in  said  lettei'. 

First,  ammonia  :  The  Germans  did  not  come  to  any  definite  arrangements  with 
the  Solvay  Company,  as  was  expected. 

The  fight  is  now  between  Solvay  and  the  French  Government.  The  former 
does  not  want  to  start  any  construction  at  the  present  but  would  prefer  to  wait 
sometime  until  conditions  are  more  favorable  for  such  large  development. 

The  French  Government,  however,  demands  the  immediate  construction  of 
a  relative  large  factory. 

The  Solvay  Company  would  prefer  importation  from  Germany  at  the  present 
and  the  beginning  of  the  construction,  say,  next  year. 

The  contract  with  the  Badische  is  therefore  still  in  the  hands  of  the  Govern- 
ment, but  all  chances  are  for  an  arrangement  between  Solvay  and  Badische 
with  the  French  Government  as  mediator. 

They  will  now  probably  wait  until  they  have  seen  you,  but  you  might  bear 
in  mind  that  they  have  made  no  definite  arrangement  with  the  Badische  for 
France. 

As  far  as  Bnniner  Mond  is  concerned,  the  situation  is  as  informed  you  in 
my  letter  of  January  27. 

Second,  dyes:  The  arrangement  regarding  dyes  have  l>eeu  made  with  the 
French  interest  "  Compagnie  National  de  Matieres  Colorantes."  The  arrange- 
ment is  made  in  such  a  way  that  the  French  company,  togetlier  with  the  I.G., 
shall  operate  all  former  German  dyestuff  factories  in  France,  the  French  being 
directly  shareholders  in  these  former  exclusively  German  factories.  The  ar- 
rangement, so  Dr.  Bosch  says,  concerns  only  France  and  her  colonies  and  has 
not  in  view  any  exportation  to  other  parts  of  the  world. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2579 

The  Germans  seem  to  be  much  pleased  with  the  arrangement  they  have  here 
and  they  may  have  in  view  some  similar  move  in  America. 

As  well  Duisberg  as  Bosch,  both  of  whom  I  had  out  to  dinner  the  other  day, 
were  furious  on  Dr.  Herty,  and  Dr.  Bosch  declared  that  he  would  at  once 
break  off  all  negotiations  with  us  if  we  have  anything  to  do  with  the  difficulties 
raised  against  the  German  dyes  in  America.  We  must  understand,  he  said, 
that  if  we  were  negotiating  with  them  both  sides  must  be  frank  to  each  other 
and  that  we  could  not  expect  the  Badische  to  go  further  in  the  started  negoti- 
ations with  us  if  they  knew  that  behind  their  back  make  everything  possible 
to  hurt  their  interest  in  America  and  elsewhere  as  far  as  dyes  are  concerned. 

Dr.  Duisberg  said  it  was  the  only  thing  for  them  to  do  to  try  to  go  to 
America  as  soon  as  possible  and  that  he  could  arrange  to  get  permission  to 
land.     They  would  also  visit  Japan,  the  Japanese  having  invited  tliem  to  come. 

The  whole  miscontent  is  due  to  the  fact  that  the  Germans  have  been  of  the 
opinion  that  Dr.  Herty  belongs  to  our  company  and  that  all  measurements 
taken  in  America  against  the  German  dye  interests  originate  from  us. 

We  parted  as  good  friends,  I  being  invited  to  Bosch  and  Duisberg  the  last 
evening  they  were  here,  and  they  are  now  convinced  that  as  far  as  we  are 
concerned  we  have  paid  fair  play  vis-S-vis  them. 

I  told  Duisberg  that  he  better  not  come  to  America  just  now  but  let  Bosch 
go  alone  for  the  ammonia  question.  I  do  believe  he  will  not  sail  at  the  same 
time  as  Dr.  Bosch  but  come  later  with  Mr.  Weinberg. 

Bosch  requested  me  to  come  to  Ludwig-shafen  before  I  sail ;  and  as  I  cabled 
you  today,  I  intend  to  do  so  in  the  near  future. 

It  seems  to  me  that  I  should  postpone  my  trip  to  America  nntil  you  have 
discussed  the  matter  with  Messrs.  Gold  and  Jansson.  No  doubt  you  will  have 
to  communicate  with  Badische  during  or  immediately  after  these  discussions, 
and  you  may  probably  have  suggestions  to  make  Bosch  that  should  come  in  his 
hands  before  the  representatives  for  Mond  and  Solvay  return.  Consequently, 
I  have  taken  passage  on  the  Rotterdam,  leaving  Holland  on  February  27. 

I  am  sure  you  agree  with  this  arrangement. 
Yours  very  truly, 

Etsten  Bmui. 


Exhibit  No.  926 
[File,  Publicity  Bureau,  Whaley-Eaton  Service] 

Pabis,    (VI), 
3  Rub  Benaparte, 

January  25,  1921. 
Mr.  Charles  K.  Weston, 

Publicity  Department,  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co., 

Wilmington,  Del.,  U.  8.  A. 

Dear  Mr.  Weston  :  I  have  had  three  meetings  with  Dr.  Chapin,  as  a  result  of 
which  I  have  arrived  at  the  most  satisfactory  arrangement  I  think  possible, 
under  present  conditions,  to  make  with  him.  He  will  not,  cannot  he  says,  talk 
officially.  He  therefore  will  not  meet  the  newspapers  at  an  arranged  con- 
ference. He  appears  all  tied  up  to  silence  ofiicially,  but  he  will  tip  me  off  to 
I^eople  he  comes  into  contact  with  who  know  conditions  and  who  are  in  a  position 
to  talk.  He  mentioned  that  he  had  information  in  his  possession  of  vital  im- 
portance to  friends  in  New  York,  information,  he  said,  which  would  prevent 
them  severe  money  losses,  but  that  he  could  not  pass  the  information  on  under 
the  present  policy. 

I  asked  him  who  is  responsible  for  such  a  policy  when  almost  all  Government 
agencies  in  Washington  have  by  now  established  oflBcial  publicity  bureaus.  He 
said  Mr.  Boyden,  head  of  the  Commission,  was  the  man.  I  am  arranging  to  have 
Dr.  Chapin,  with  whom  I  am  getting  along  famously  in  a  personal  way.  intro- 
duce me  to  Mr.  Boyden,  to  whom  I  am  going  to  suggest  the  advisability  and 
wisdom  of  loosening  up  on  information,  if  not  to  the  extent  of  putting  out 
statements,  at  least  to  the  extent  of  saying  to  correspondents  who  come  for 
verification  of  information.  "  That  is  so  "  or  "  That  is  not  so."  If  I  can  get  such 
a  system  working  here,  tliere  will  be  no  trouble  in  having  information  which  can 
be  obtained  from  uuofiicial  sources  approved  as  correct  officially,  which  will  be 
sufficient  for  the  puri>oses  of  the  Paris  correspondents. 


2580  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

The  A.  P.  carried  a  cable  on  the  substance  of  an  interview  I  had  with  Professor 
Blondell,  professor  of  economics  and  political  science  of  the  College  of  France, 
and  I  suppose  you  noted  it  in  the  cable  despatches.  The  Public  Ledger  syndicate 
and  the  Chicago  Tribune  syndicate  papers  are  to  be  supplied  with  a  story  I 
have  arranged  which  will  point  out  that  the  French  Government,  upon  con- 
fidential information  from  its  investigators  in  Germany  regarding  a  coming 
great  German  dump  of  goods,  will  further  increase  its  coefiicient  tariff  rates  on 
dyestuffs,  chemicals,  etc.  The  stories  will  point  out  that  France  will  increase 
the  coefficients  not  only  to  safeguard  French  industry  but  also  to  prevent  further 
unemployment  due  to  Fi'ench  production  being  stopped  by  a  great  stream  of 
German  goods.  This  will  checkmate  the  German  plans  as  far  as  France  is  con- 
cerned but  will  have  the  effect  of  concentrating  Germany's  attention  on  the 
United  states,  which  alone  of  all  the  great  countries  has  not  acted  to  safeguard 
its  dye  industry.  This  story  should  bring  out  some  editorials  in  the  American 
press,  and  it  might  be  possible  to  have  it  suggested  to  some  of  the  newspapers 
that  editorial  treatment  of  the  cable  would  be  of  public  service. 

Dr.  Jacoby,  who  is  Dr.  Chapin's  associate,  showed  me  yesterday  a  clipping 
from  one  of  the  Ledger  syndicate  newspapers.  It  was  a  cable  dated  January  7, 
and  was  the  article  you  supplied.  The  clip  had  been  sent  him  from  America,  and 
the  last  paragraph  had  been  heavily  blue-penciled  as  a  mark  of  approval. 

I  sent  you  a  cable  yesterday  notifying  you  of  the  coming  appearance  of  the 
stories  for  the  P.  L.  syndicate  and  C.  Tribune  papers.  I  hope  to  get  some  more 
material  over  the  A.  P.  wires  shortly. 

I  have  made  arrangements  with  Dr.  Chapin  and  Captain  Norris,  who  is  a  good 
fellow,  to  be  tipped  off  promptly  if  Kail  von  Weinberg  arrives  in  Paris.  He 
would  get  in  touch  with  either  of  these  two  men  upon  his  arrival.  I  shall  then 
attempt  in  an  interview  to  get  him  to  boast  a  little  and  to  have  three  or  four  of, 
the  other  correspondents  with  me  at  the  interview. 

Dr.  Chapin  says  confidentially  that  he  sent  some  information  to  a  friend  of 
yours,  who,  I  believe,  is  Mr.  Poucher,  and  that  his  action  was  objected  to  in  the 
office  here  when  it  l)ecame  known.  He  gives  this  as  an  illustration  of  how  care- 
ful he  has  to  be,  although  in  full  accord  and  entire  sympathy  with  our  purposes. 
Dr.  Chapin  went  over  all  his  difficulties  tlioruughly  when  we  had  luncheon 
together  yesterday. 

By  the  way,  I  suppose  that  an  occasional  luncheon,  etc.,  in  furtherance  of  the- 
project  would  not  be  objected  to.  but- I  should  like  authorization.  In  this  case 
Dr.  Chapin  paid  for  the  lunch,  but  I  want  to  be  in  a  position  to  come  back  at 
him  and  the  other  people  who  we  want  to  cultivate,  including  such  men  as 
Williams,  of  the  P.  L.,  Roberts,  of  the  A.  P.,  De.scheil,  who  is  a  good  plugger,  etc. 
Floyd  Gibbons,  of  the  Tribune,  should  be  cultivated  more  closely,  and  you  know 
how  much  can  be  done  over  a  bite  to  eat  and  a  drink. 

Carl  Aekerman,  who  dropped  into  the  Ledger  Bureau  while  I  was  there,  over 
on  a  short  visit  from  London,  requested  me  to  remember"  him  to  you. 

I  shall  have  a  new  office  next  week,  right  at  the  Place  de  la  Concorde.  The 
address  will  be  8  rue  Saint-Florentin,  Paris  (lor),  off  the  Rue  de  Rivoli  at  the 
Place  de  la  Concorde,  just  over  the  bridge  from  the  Chamhre  des  Deputies  and 
the  French  Foreign  Office,  and  right  up  against  all  the  hotels,  ere.  I  am  very- 
much  pleased  with  it. 

Dr.  Chapin  and  Col.  Taylor  and  Mr.  Chase  ask  me  to  remember  them  to  you. 
Sincerely, 

(s)      Ben  K.  Rat.eigh. 


Exhibit  No.  927 

[File,  Publicity  Bureau,  Poucher,  M.  R.  ;  correspondence,  dyes] 

Boston,  Mass.,  January  J,  1920. 
F.  D.  Byrne, 

Pwbliciiy  Department: 
I  received  a  letter  today  from  Mr.  Weston  from  London,  dated  December  17th, 
together  with  some  clippings  from  the  London  papers  of  various  dates  between 
December  3rd  and  17th.  I  think  we  are  beginning  to  see  some  results ;  for 
example,  the  article  in  the  Boston  Transcript  issued  Dec.  31st,  page  6,  under 
this  heading: 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2581 

"  Britain  Foresees  '  Gas  '  War — New  Legislation  Will  Shut  Out  Dyestuffs 
AND  Enable  Plants  to  be  Built  Which  Can  be  Converted  into  Poison-Gas 
Factories 

'•London,  December  31. — That  poison  gas  will  be  the  supreme  -weapon  in  the 
next  war  is  aeceptefl  by  the  Go\ernnient.  This  is  the  inference  drawn  from 
the  passage  of  the  dyestuffs  import  regulations  act,  which  prohiits  the  importa- 
tion of  dyestuffs  for  the  next  ten  years.  During  this  period  England  will  be 
enabled  to  build  up  her  dye  industry  to  a  iwint  of  absolute  dependence  from 
the  outside  world. 

"  Dye  plants,  by  a  slight  change,  can  be  readily  converted  into  war  plants 
for  the  manufacture  of  poison  gas.  When  the  World  War  began  in  1914, 
England  had  very  few  dye  works,  but  Germany  was  full  of  them.  Hence  the 
British  had  to  build  the  factories  for  the  making  of  poison  gas,  Avhile  the 
Teutons  had  everything  ready.  The  conversion  of  the  numerous  dye  plants 
into  '  gas '  plants  was,  pi-actically  speaking,  the  work  of  only  a  few  hours."' 

I  notice  that  this  heading  follows  very  closely  the  one  in  the  London  Evening 
Standard  of  December  7th,  reading : 

"  Poison  Gas  and  the  Next  War — Nations  Experimenting  Already — British 
Position — Gases  in  Warfare — Value  of  a  Highly  Devei^opbh)  Chemical 
Industry  " 

This  is  the  right  line  and  it  must  be  pushed  hard  on  this  side.  I  suggest 
that  you  look  out  for  any  statements  or  reports  from  General  Fries.  They 
will,  of  course,  be  quite  in  line  with  the  foregoing. 


MRP-F. 


Exhibit  No.  928 

[Memorandum] 


M.   R.    POUCHER. 


January  15.  1921. 


To:  C.  K.  Weston. 
From  :  F.  J.  Byrne. 

Recently  there  have  appeared  a  number  of  dispatches  in  the  American  papers 
along  the  lines  that  are  very  desirable  to  us.  These  look  to  me  as  if  they  have 
been  cabled  to  this  country  as  a  result  of  your  visit  to  the  other  side. 

(1)  The  Boston  Transcript  of  Dec.  31,  1920,  carried  a  fine  story  on  "Bricain 
Forsees  Gas  Warfare,"  dated  from  London. 

(2)  The  Wasliington  Herald  had  a  cable  dispatch  written  by  Wythe  WilMams 
from  Paris  about  German  dye  plots  against  the  United  States.  This  w;is  taken 
up  by  the  Manufacturers  Record  and  made  the  subject  of  a  splendid  full-page 
editorial. 

(3)  The  Evening  Bulletin  of  Philadelphia  had  a  dispatch  from  London  talk- 
ing .-ibout  the  importance  of  the  British  action  passing  the  dye  bill  and  irs 
relation  to  American  affairs. 

(4)  The  Public  Ledger  of  Jan.  8,  1921,  had  a  dispatch  from  Paris  about  "  Ger- 
many Sets  Dye  Trade  Trap." 

These  dispatches,  of  course,  are  syndicated  in  many  cases  to  appear  in 
different  places  throughout  the  country,  so  that  the  publicity  on  these  four 
items  I  mentioned  must  have  been  very  considerable. 

C.  K.  W. 


FJB/P. 


Exhibit  No.  929 


*  See  me  about  this. 
FJB. 


April  28,  1921. 


To:  Mr.  C.  A.  Meade,  room  9104. 
From:  C.  K.  Weston. 

The  inquiry  which  Dr.  Koontz  makes  through  Mr.  Chase  concerning  the 
whereabouts  of  Mr.  Guy  Martin,  and  the  articles  which  he  wrote  for  the 
Paris  editions  of  the  New  York  Herald  and  the  Chicago  Tribune,  throws  an 
interesting  sidelight  on  my  visit  to  London  and  Paris. 


2582  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

You  will  recall  that  I  sent  you  copies  of  these  articles  very  recently.  They 
were  written  by  Mr.  Ben  A.  Raleigh,  an  old  newspaper  acquaintance  whom  I 
left  on  guard  in  Paris.  He  assumed  the  name  of  Guy  Martin  for  publication 
purposes. 

His  Paris  address  is  8  Rue  Saint-Florentin,  Paris,  and  he  is  in  constant 
touch  with  our  Paris  office.  He  as  my  agent  will  carry  out  any  suggestion 
which  Dr.  Koontz  or  Mr.  Chase  may  make.     I  am  returning  Mr.  Chase's  letter. 

Publicity  Manager. 
CKW/P 

Exhibit  No.  930 

[Copy  to:  C.  K.  Weston] 
Mr.  M.  R.  PoucHEK,  June)  14,  1922. 

Room  9120,  Building: 
The  following  cable  was  received  today  by  the  Whaley-Eaton  Service  from  its 
Paris  correspondent : 

"  Congressman  Everett  Sanders  and  Frederick  Purnell  associated  with  Britten 
Berlin  negotiations." 

J.  F.  Btbne. 
FJB/AER. 

Note. — Both  Sanders  and  Purnell  are  Congressmen  from  Indiana. 


Exhibit  No.  931  September  22,  1921. 

Mr.  P.  H.  WHAI.EIY, 

Whaley-Eaton  Service,  Munsey  Building,  Washington,  D.  C. 

My  Dear  Whalby:  You  know,  of  course,  that  the  chemical  industry  will 
figure  very  largely  in  the  coming  disarmament  conference.  The  Chemical  War- 
fare Service  will,  of  course,  be  consulted.  It  may  interest  you,  as  a  piece  of 
news,  to  learn  that  the  chemical  industry  as  a  whole  will  be  represented  thi'ough 
advisers  to  be  appointed  to  help  the  American  delegation  solve  its  problems. 
The  names  of  several  distinguished  chemists  are  now  under  consideration  at  the 
White  House,  and  announcement  of  the  appointment  of  representatives  of  the 
chemical  industry  probably  will  be  made  very  soon. 

For  your  private  information,  the  President  has  received  favorably  the  sug- 
gestion that  Dr.  Charles  H.  Herty  and  Dr.  Edgar  Fahs  Smith,  former  provost 
of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania,  and  president  of  the  American  Chemical 
Society,  be  named  as  advisers. 

The  Evening  Journal,  of  Wilmington,  is  reprinting  on  its  editorial  page  today 
the  chemical  story  which  the  Manufacturers  Record  printed  last  week. 
Very  truly  yours, 

Managee  Publicity  Bureau. 
CKW/AER. 


Exhibit  No.  932 

Whaley-Eaton  Service, 
Washington,  D.  C,  November  9,  1921. 
Mr.  Frank  Byrne, 

E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  <&  Co.,  Wilmington.  Delaware. 
Dbab  Sib:  Referring  to  your  telephone  inquiry  in  regard  to  the  members  of 
the  French  delegation  experts  on  chemical  disarmament : 

Our  own  information,  as  carried  in  our  last  week's  foreign  letter,  came  by 
cable,  which  mentioned  the  names  of  these  two  gentlemen  as  Mayer  and  Moren. 
On  inquiry  at  the  State  Department  we  find  that  M.  Andre  Mayer  is  in  Wash- 
ington with  the  French  delegation,  but  no  M.  Moren.  There  is,  however,  a 
M.  Moureu.  It  is  our  opinion  that  this  last  is  unquestionably  M.  IMayer's  asso- 
ciate and  that  the  Moren  in  our  cable  was  gai'bled. 

We  think  it  very  unlikely  that  we  will  be  able  to  get  any  of  the  details  of 
the  plan  for  chemical  disarmament  from  these  gentlemen,  but  we  will  do  our 
best. 

Very  truly  yours,  Whaley-Eaton    Service. 

By:    (s)   Harry  Eaton. 
ho.w 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2583 

ExHiHiT  No.  933 

NOVBMBEK  25,  1921. 
Mr.  M.  R.  PoucHER, 

Room  9120,  Building: 
From  :  C.  K.  Weston. 

I  am  informed  throush  the  Washington  "grapevine"  that  the  British  dele- 
gation to  the  Limitation  of  Armament.s  Conference  has  a  plan  to  submit  con- 
cerning tlie  chemical  industry  which  embodies  these  points : 

First,  to  outlaw  the  use  of  poison  gas  in  warfare  and  to  outlaw  as  far  a? 
possible  anything  of  a  dangerous  chemical  nature ; 

Second,  failing  to  secure  drastic  action  (as  they  expect  to  fail)  to  limit  the 
use  of  chemicals  as  much  as  possible; 

Third,  to  put  the  chemical  industries  of  the  various  nations  under  the  control 
of  the  governments. 

From  the  same  source  comes  information  that  an  economic  confei'ence  is  a 
certainty  and  that  Britain  will  suggest,  among  other  things,  that  Germany  be 
helped  to  reestablish  her  industries,  particularly  those  which  depend  least  on 
outside  sources  for  their  raw  materials — meaning  their  chemical  industries — 
and  that  England  will  be  willing  to  assume  the  responsibility  for  control  of 
this  German  industry  by  undertaking  to  supervise  the  distribution  of  German 
chemical  products  to  the  markets  of  the  world. 

I   understand   that   Sir  Reginald   McKenna,   chairman   of  the   board   of   the 
Midland  and  City  Bank   (?),  is  now  or  has  been  recently  in  this  country  in 
conference  with  leading  American  business  and  banking  interests. 
CKW/AER. 


Exhibit   No.   934 

statement  by  julius  klein,  former  assistant  secretary  of  co'm^[e»cb  and 
diebctor  of  thel  bureuvu   of   foreign    and   domestic    commerce 

The  Senate  inquiry  appears  to  me  to  present  an  incomplete  version  of  the 
Commerce  Department's  discussions  with  American  manufacturers  of  sporting 
arms  in  1925. 

AVhen  the  State  Department  began  preiiarations  for  the  arms  conference  a 
draft  of  the  projected  treaty  was  released  in  Geneva.  American  manufacturers 
discerned  at  once  that  the  text  appeared  to  apply  also  to  international  peace 
commerce  in  sporting  arms  and  ammunition  and  to  industrial  explosives. 
They  protested  to  the  State  Department  that  such  prohibitions  threatened 
a  damaging  encroachment  upon  American  commerce  without  in  any  way  ad- 
vancing the  real  purpose  of  the  Arms  Limitation  Conference. 

At  the  request  of  the  Secretary  of  State,  Mr.  Hoover,  then  Secretary  of 
Commerce,  called  a  meeting  of  the  principal  American  manufacturers  of 
sjiorting  arms  and  industrial  explosives.  This  conference,  held  at  the  Depart- 
ment of  Commerce  on  April  1,  1925,  was  devoted  exclusively  to  a  discussion 
of  such  changes  in  the  text  of  the  treaty  as  would  free  sporting  arms  and 
industrial  explosives  from  the  restrictions  contemplated  for  military  supplies. 

My  own  covering  letter  of  April  2,  transmitting  the  conclusions  of  the  con- 
ference, ended  with  this  paragraph  : 

"  Your  attention  is  invited  to  the  fact  that  the  enclosed  memorandum  does 
not  necessarily  represent  the  views  of  the  Department  of  Commerce,  but 
merely  those  of  one  branch  of  the  industry,  and  that  the  participation  of 
the  Department  of  Commerce  is  limited  to  the  task  of  ascertaining  and  crys- 
tallizhig  the  views  of  the  industry  for  tlie  benefit  of  the  Department  of  State 
and  of  the  American  delegates  to  the  Geneva  Conference." 

The  whole  purpose  of  the  conference,  and  the  only  interest  of  the  Commerce 
Dejiartment  in  the  Discussions,  was  to  distinguish  between  normal  ]ieace-time 
connncrcial  business  in  sporting  equipment  and  industrial  explosives  on  the 
one  hand  and  military  arms  on  the  other;  and  to  make  certain  that  the  legiti- 
mate peace  commerce  should  be  properly  safeguarded  in  the  treaty. 

A  full  report  covering  these  discussions  was  transmitted  to  the  State  Depart- 
ment at  the  time. 

During  his  administration   President   Hoover,  in   messages  to   Congress   and 
public  addresses,  urged  ratification  of  the  Geneva  Arms  Treaty   no  less  than 
83876—35— PT  11 13 


2584  MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY 

six  times.  As  late  as  January  10,  1933,  he  sent  a  special  message  to  Congress, 
again  urging  ratification  of  this  treaty.  In  this  message  President  Hoover 
said  in  part : 

"  This  convention  has  been  adhered  to  by  a  large  number  of  other  important 
nations  and  is  practically  stopped  through  failure  of  the  United  States  to  adhere 
to  it.  Its  ratification  would  contribute  to  the  ends  being  sought  by  the  entire 
world  for  the  prevention  and  limitation  of  war.  I  earnestly  urge  that  this 
convention  should  be  ratified." 

Over  a  period  of  twenty  years  Mr.  Hoover  has  been  a  conspicuous  figure 
in  the  movement  for  the  effective  organization  of  the  peace  of  the  world.  His 
vigorous  advocacy  of  the  Kellogg-Briand  Pact,  hisi  unceasing  effm-t  for  the  suc- 
cess of  the  Naval  Limitations  Conferences  his  exposure  of  the  jingo  propa- 
ganda which  once  threatened  the  Geneva  effort,  his  work  for  the  universal 
acceptance  of  the  doctrine  of  nonaggression,  and  his  efforts  to  advance  the 
entire  limitation  program- — all  these  are  testimony  to  his  sincere  devotion  to 
the  cause  of  peace. 


("ExHrBiT  No.  935"   appears  in   text  on  p.  2426.) 


("Exhibit  No.  936"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2438.) 


Exhibit  No.  937 

[File  MS-80-A] 

*  135     Ms-8 

DU  PONT-NOBEIL  RELATIONS  KEGARDING  MILITARY   SALES 

Attached  hereto  is  memorandum  on  "  du  Pont-Nobel  cooperation,  sales  of 
military  propellant  powders  and  explosives  ",  which  is  the  present  agreement 
between  the  du  Pont  Company  «nd  the  Nobel  interests  concerning  military  sales 
to  governments  other  than  the  United  States  and  Great  Britain. 

A  brief  summary  on  how  it  came  into  being  is  timely.  For  some  years  past 
an  accord  has  existed  regarding  foreign  sale.s  of  commercial  explosives,  but  all 
documents  covering  this  accord  specifically  excepted  military  sales,  as,  for 
example,  (hat  of  January  1,  1920. 

This  was  largely  due  to  the  fact  that  du  Pont  felt  that  any  accord  on  mili- 
tary sales  would  tend  to  disturb  their  relations  with  the  United  States  Govern- 
ment, which  relations  had  been  carefully  cultivated  for  over  a  century. 

How  Nobel  felt  in  this  regard  is  not  known  to  us,  but  probably  the  Cordite 
factories  at  Waltham  Abbey,  Holton  Heath,  and  Auruvankadu  (India)  occupy 
a  relatively  larger  place  in  the  British  propellant  supply  than  do  the  American 
equivalents,  so  that  the  relations  of  Nobel  with  the  British  Government  are 
possibly  not  so  intimate  as  du  Pont's  with  the  United  States  Government. 

The  military  sales  division  of  the  du  Pont  Company  is  charged  with  sales  to 
and  contact  with  the  U.  S.  War  and  Navy  Departments,  and  our  constant 
acquaintance  with  the  ofiicials  of  these  Departments  gives  the  members  of  the 
military  sales  division  a  knowledge  of  opinion  in  Washington  that  is  never 
written  and  seldom  spoken.  It  is  the  unanimous  belief  of  the  military  sales 
division  that  any  agreement  on  military  sales  with  an  alien  firm  will  materially 
hurt  our  relations  with  the  United  States  Government,  if,  indeed,  such  agree- 
ment will  not  eventually  conflict  with  article  XIV   (d),  ordnance  contract. 

"  No  contractor  having  in  hand  work  of  a  military  character  which  the  Ord- 
nance Department  may  designate  as  confidential  shall  permit  any  foreign  officer 
or  other  foreigner  not  in  the  contractor's  employ  to  visit  portions  of  the  plant 
where  such  work  is  in  process,  nor  shall  the  contractor  give  to  such  person 
any  specific  information  concerning  such  work  without  the  authority  of  the 
Chief  of  Ordnance,  nor  shall  any  alien  in  the  contractor's  employ  be  engaged 
on  or  permitted  to  examine  such  parts  of  the  work  as  the  Ordnance  Department 
may  specifically  designate  as  confidential." 

Notwithstanding  this  belief,  an  agreement  to  cooperate  with  Nobel  on  mili- 
tary sales  was  signed  in  London  in  November  1925,  whereby  du  Pont  was  given 
priority  of  sales  on  nitrocellulose  powders  and  Nobel  given  priority  on  TNT 
and  nitroglycerin  powders.     In  general,  this  agreement  was  satisfactory,  but 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2585 

since  Nobel  was  to  have  some  of  the  nitrocellulose  business  and  had  not  per- 
fected this  type  of  powder  or  brought  their  manufacturing  costs  to  a  figure  that 
could  secure  orders,  it  was  not  entirely  satisfactory. 

Closer  cooperation  was  agreed  on  under  date  of  October  14,  1926,  whereby 
du  Pont  from  their  Paris  oflSce  took  charge  of  joint  sales  in  northern  and  west- 
ern Europe  and  Nobel  from  their  Vienna  office  took  charge  of  the  Balkans. 
Italy  was  left  to  Nobel ;  no  mention  made  of  Spain  or  Portugal,  which  in  effect 
left  them  to  Nobel ;  Hungary  not  mentioned ;  and  Germany  left  for  future 
discussion. 

The  following  has  developed :  On  the  1,000-ton  Polish  order  Nobel's  quota 
would  have  been  300  tons,  but  the  Polish  Government  declined  to  split  the 
order,  and,  in  general,  it  may  be  assumed  that  this  attitude  will  be  followed  by 
other  governments. 

At  a  meeting  held  in  London  on  October  11,  1927,  it  was  stated  by  a  Nobel 
representative  that  Ardeer  must  have  orders  for  nitrocellulose  powders  in  order 
to  gain  experience  and  keep  the  plant  force  employed,  which  indicates  that  tJie 
difliculties  still  exist  in  perfecting  a  nitrocellulose  powder  and  producing  it  at 
a  cost  suflSciently  low  to  compete  with  other  firms. 

Frankly  stated,  the  military  sales  division  did  not  and  does  not  desire  this 
alliance,  as  our  technical  developments  and  production  costs  permit  us  to  secure 
sufl5cient  European  business  in  competition  with  any  or  all  manufacturers, 
and  we  feel  that  any  such  alliance  causes  apprehension  in  Washington,  which 
is  detrimental  to  the  interests  of  the  du  Pont  Co. 

This  alliance  further  impedes  our  sales,  since  no  government  will  allow  an 
order  to  be  filled  from  factories  in  two  different  countries,  where  with  the 
greatest  care  and  skill,  differences  in  finished  product  must  result. 

Although  it  is  a  delicate  matter  to  discuss,  the  political  situation  of  Great 
Britain  in  regard  to  continental  powers  must  be  given  consideration,  and  it 
is  believed  that  an  American  firm  will  have  sales  advantages,  due  to  the  de- 
tached position  of  the  United  States  in  reference  to  European  politics  and' 
political  alliances. 

We  believe  also  that  our  European  representative  and  his  local  agents  will 
be  more  successful  in  negotiations  with  the  various  governments  than  will  their 
Nobel  associates. 

To  sum  up,  our  objections  to  the  existing  Nobel  agreement  are : 

The  detrimental  effect  on  du  Pont  relations  with  the  United  States  Govern- 
ment. 

The  relative  lack  of  nitrocellulose-powder  development  by  Nobel  and  the 
relatively  higher  prices  hamper  sales. 

The  impossibility  of  du  Pont  aiding  Nobel  to  develop  nitrocellulose  powders 
without  conflicting  with  the  United  States  Army  contracts. 

The  impossibility  of  inducing  foreign  governments  to  permit  orders  to  be 
filled  partly  from  du  Pont  and  partly  from  Nobel  factories. 

The  relatively  greater  skill  of  du  Pont  representatives,  agents,  and  technical 
men  in  securing  European  orders. 

We  consider-  this  information  confidential. 

E.  I.  DU  PoNT  DB  Nemours  &  Co.^ 
By  K.  K.  V.  Casey, 


Exhibit  No.  938 
[Pile  MS-80-A] 

16  Place  Vendomb,  Paris, 

Novemher  16,  1927. 
T-1012 
Major  K.  K.  V.  Casey, 

E.  I.  dxi,  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.,  Wilmington,  Delaware. 

(Cooperation  with  Nobel:) 

Dear  Sir:  1.  In  accordance  with  tlie  decision  of  the  meeting  held  between  the 
principals  of  the  du  Pont  Company  and  Nobel  Industries,  Limited,  on  the  29th 
day  of  July  1926,  an  agreement  was  drawn  up  on  the  date  of  October  20th,  1926, 
which  resulted  in  a  joint  sales  agreement  by  which  the  du  Pont  office  in  Paris 
was  to  supervise  the  sales  of  certain  territories  on  behalf  of  both  companies  and 


2586  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

the  Nobel  office  in  Vienna  to  supervise  otlier  territories  on  behalf  of  both 
companies. 

2.  In  accordance  with  the  minutes  of  the  meeting  of  July  29th,  1926,  Mr.  A.  G. 
Major  and  myself  were  delegated  to  draw  up  the  detailed  arrangement.  As  an 
actual  matter  of  fact,  when  we  drew  up  tliis  arrangement,  the  following  ideas 
were  in  our  minds : 

a.  First,  that  there  was  no  essential  difference  in  the  effort  put  upon  sales 
between  the  du  Pont  Company  and  the  Nobel  Company. 

4.  Secondly,  that  the  quality  of  the  products  of  the  two  companies  was  equally 
sellable. 

5.  Thirdly,  that  the  sale's  prices  were  approximately  the  same. 

6.  We  took  this  attitude  because  neither  of  us  had  had  any  comparative 
experience  of  a  real  nature  to  permit  us  to  presume  anything  different. 

7.  However,  we  did  understand  that  the  matters  might  not  worlx  out  exactly 
as  we  foresaw  and  that  there  might  be  some  possible  developments  along  this 
line,  and  therefore  we  put  in  a  paragraph  which  said : 

8.  "  It  is  recognized  tliat  in  actual  practice  the  ([uotas  may  not  be  adhered 
to,  and  it  is  therefore  suggested  to  the  du  Pout  and  Nobel  management  that, 
at  the  end  of  each  year  adjustment  shall  be  made  for  services  rendered  in  the 
event  of  one  party  obtaining  an  over-quota  by  the  payment  of  some  agreed 
amount  per  unit  of  oversales." 

9.  Furthermore,  it  was  provided :  "  When  occasion  demands  Colonel  Taylor 
is  to  be  provided  with  technical  assistance  from  Nobel  necessitated  by  enquiries 
from  his  territory,  whilst  reciprocally  Mr.  Smith  may  call  for  technical  assist- 
ance from  Colonel  Taylor  where  necessary." 

10.  Furthtrmore:  "Government  objection  or  prohibition  shall  be  a  valid 
excuse  on  the  part  of  either  of  the  parties  hereto  to  decline  to  make  disclosure 
of  information  pertaining  to  products  within  the  scope  of  this  arrangement." 

11.  And  furthermore:  "  It  is  agreed  that  this  arrangement  shall  not  entail  the 
exchange  of  costs." 

12.  We  have  now  been  working  under  this  agreement  for  a  year  and  the 
situation  has  developed  as  follows :  In  endeavoring  to  sell  Nobel  goods  in  my 
territory  there  has  not  been  any  great  difHculty  in  deciding  in  a  reasonable 
manner  as  to  which  company  shall  bid  on  enquiry  from  any  certain  country 
and  therefore  on  the  basis  of  meeting  the  allocation  mentioned  in  the  contract, 
there  seemed  to  be  no  great  problem  to  be  expected,  as  circumstances  appear 
to  dictate  that  in  certain  countries  it  is  easier  to  sell  Nobel  material,  due  to 
political  and  psychological  reasons,  and  in  other  countries  it  is  more  easy  to  sell 
du  Pont  material.  Therefore,  it  first  appeared  as  if  the  agreement  would 
work  out  exactly  as  intended,  but  unfortunately  political  and  psychological 
reasons  are  not  the  only  things  that  sell  powder,  and  therefore  other  considera- 
tions have  come  in,  unforseen  at  the  time  the  agreement  was  made  and  which 
may  lead  to  certain  complications. 

These  are :  First,  that  Nobel  cannot  sell  as  cheaply  as  du  Pont. 

13.  Secondly,  that  du  Pont  disposes  of  a  greater  history  of  experimental  work, 
\vhich  permits  them  to  offer  a  greater  variety  of  solutions  of  the  problems 
presented  than  Nobel,  and  above  all,  permits  them  to  answer  these  requirements 
more  rapidly  and  with  greater  assurance  of  success. 

14.  Therefore,  one  of  my  first  studies  in  undertaking  this  sales'  supervision 
for  Nobel's  was  to  try  to  improve  their  situation  by  giving  them  more  complete 
information  aliout  the  requirements  than  they  had  before,  by  getting  their 
technical  men  In  closer  touch  with  the  customer,  by  putting  pressure  on  them 
to  increase  their  experimental  and  research  activities,  which  has  been  received 
with  a  mixed  i-eaction : 

15.  On  one  hand  they  resent  rather  strongly  any  criticism  of  their  products, 
and  on  the  other  hand  they  are  pleased  to  be  put  in  closer  contact  with  the 
proidems. 

16.  It  has  also  occasionally  happened  that  where  we  have  offered  Nobel  mate- 
ri;d  we  have  lost  the  order,  whereas  we  might  have  had  a  better  chance  of  getting 
it  if  we  had  offered  du  Pont  material.  In  each  of  the.se  cases,  liowever,  it  was 
a  (luestion  of  iirice.  not  of  quality.  It  is  not.  however,  beyond  the  iiossibilities 
that  Nobel  would  be  willing  to  sell  at  the  same  prices  as  du  Pont  and  hence 
correct  this  difficulty,  so  at  the  moment  of  writing  this  there  appears  to  be  no 
obstacles  that  cannot  be  corrected  in  time. 

17.  How<'ver,  it  is  now  very  easy  to  project  oneself  into  the  future  nnd  foresee 
lliijt  certain  more  serious  difficulties  are  about  to  arise.  These  difficulties  are 
about  to  develop  in  specific  cases : 


MUNITTONS    INDUSTRY  2587 

18.  The  first  case  is  the  question  of  Poland:  We  are  looking  forward  to  cun- 
siderahle  business  from  Pohind  and  hoping  that  it  will  come  in  the  form  (,f  addi- 
tional quantities  to  the  i)resent  contract,  which,  if  it  takes  place,  would  oltligate 
us,  under  the  agreement,  to  endeavour  to  pass  a  certain  quantity  of  this 
contract  to  Nobel,  specifically  300  tons  of  powder.  It  is  evident  to  me.  however, 
that  without  our  assistance  Nobel  can  not  manufacture  in  accordance  with  the 
specifications,  and  we  will  either  have  to  show  Nobel  how  to  manufacture  this 
powder  by  sending  men  to  Ardeer  or  we  will  have  to  take  Nobel's  men  to  America 
to  work  them  in  on  this  matter. 

1J>.  The  second  case  is  the  question  in  Belgium,  where,  for  every  commercial 
reason,  it  would  appear  reasonable  to  place  the  business  expected  from  the 
Fabrique  Nationnle  on  Nobel's,  and  where  Nobel  is  about  to  undertake  studies 
to  meet  the  requirements.  In  this  case,  unless  I  give  Nobel's  the  results  of  the 
studies  made  by  us  for  the  Fabrique  Nationale  and  give  them  certain  assistance, 
which  knowledge  I  have  acquired  through  efforts  of  the  du  Pont  Company,  they 
will  have  trouble  in  meeting  these  reciulrements. 

20.  Thirdly,  in  the  question  of  powder  for  the  13.2  mm  Hotchkiss  machine  gun, 
the  question  comes  u])  why  should  they  not  furnish  powder  to  Kynoch,  if  they 
can  make  it.  as  Kynoch  is  their  own  factory,  and  here  again,  in  order  to  enable 
Ardeer  to  make  this  powder,  we  will  eventually  have  to  give  them  some 
assistance. 

21.  Fourthly,  if  it  would  be  possible  to  continue  without  giving  Nol)el  any 
direct  assistance  in  manufacture  from  Wilmington's  iiersonnol,  in  any  case  I 
.^hall  have  to  give  them,  in  order  to  sell  their  goods  properly,  a  great  deal  of 
information  regarding  customers'  desires,  methods,  and  results,  which  has  been 
acquired  by  me  through  working  for  the  Du  Pont  Company  and  which  is,  there- 
fore, the  property  of  du  Pont. 

22.  I  can  also  foresee  another  complication  :  The  experiences  of  the  war  have 
caused  a  very  considerable  change  in  the  requirements  demanded  of  powders, 
and  Europe  holds  a  quantity  of  unsolved  problems.  Ot  all  the  p(!W(ler  manu- 
facturers, the  Du  Pont  Company  is  at  present  the  most  capable  of  solving  those 
problems.  This  is  being  realizeil  in  Europe,  and  in  the  near  future  we  are 
going  to  get  our  principal  Inisiness  presented  to  us  along  the  following  line-;: 

23.  A  country  will  say  to  us:  "We  have  now  adopted  new  guns  and  small 
arms,  but  we  are  not  satisfied  with  the  powder  solution  for  this  problem  as 
presented  by  local  factories.  We  will  place  a. large  order  for  powder  with  you, 
provided  you  solve  the  problem  and  then  show  our  local  people  how  to  make 
the  powder.  We  must  necessarily  have  you  to  show  our  local  people  liow  to 
make  it.  as  it  is  not  possible  for  us  to  be  dependent  on  our  powder  supply 
entirely  from  a  foreign  country;  and  therefore  we  cannot  buy  the  ]M3wder  from 
you,  nor  use  your  solution  of  the  problem,  unless  it  is  a  solutio.n  which  we  can 
eventually  produce  ourselves." 

24.  The  problem  will  be  presented  in  the  above  manner,  and  Du  Pont  is  in 
a  position  to  make  considerable  money  by  solving  it  iri  the  above  manner.  It 
appears  to  me  that  we  have  the  technical  exiierience  to  allow  us  to  solve  such 
problems  and  that  we  can  in  most  cases  show  how  to  make  the  particular 
powder  for  the  particular  problem  which  they  put  up  to  us,  without  disclosing 
matters  of  great  secrecy,  not  losing  our  lead  in  experimental  work :  in  fact,  the 
stimulus  of  solving  these  problems  will  increase  our  technical  advance. 

25.  This  appears  to  me  to  be  the  immediate  future  of  our  work,  and  the 
present  agreement  which  we  have  with  Nobel  is  not  adapted  to  this  problem. 
I  take  it  that  under  the  present  relations  with  Nobel  we  are  obligated  to  show 
them  anything  we  show  to  a  continental  country,  and  tliat  we  are  obligated  to 
place  a  part  of  these  orders  with  them  if  possible;  and,  if  this  is  not  possible, 
we  are  obligated  to  shai-e  profits  with  them. 

26.  Suppose  that  the  Paris  office  should  be  called  upon  to  negotiate  a  contract 
along  the  above  lines.  Should  I  present  the  problem  to  both  the  Du  Pont  Com- 
pany  and  the  Nobel  Company  at  the  same  time,  secure  a  duplicate  set  of  in- 
formation and  components,  have  both  factories  study  the  problem  imlepend- 
ently,  and  have  them  comi.ete  with  eacli  other  for  a  technical  solution? 

27.  If  this  is  to  be  done,  the  Paris  office  of  the  Du  Pont  Company,  being  the 
organ  of  transmission  of  information  and  questions,  is  bound  to  acquire  thnmgh 
this  activity  an  intimate  kn(iwledge  of  the  working  of  the  two  parties;  it  will 
be  almost  impossible  for  the  Paris  ofl^ice  to  decide  which  information  belongs  to 
which  company  and  whether  it  is  to  be  transmitted  to  one  and  not  to  the  other. 
Furthermore,  as  experiments  would  go  ahmg,  it  is  inevitable  that  one  company 
would  succeed  and  the  other  fail,  and  that  the  .second  time  a  situation  like  that 


2588  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

arose  the  weaker  company  would  insist  upon  the  other  giving  them  the  advan- 
tages of  their  experience,  and  immediately  a  very  acute  development  of  the 
problem  on  tlie  exchange  of  information  would  arise. 

28.  If  I  gave  all  the  problems  to  the  du  Pont  Company  and  none  to  the 
Nobel  Company,  there  would  be  a  legitimate  objection.  If  I  should  give  one 
problem  to  one  company  and  one  problem  to  the  other,  there  would  be  a  legiti- 
mate question  as  to  my  judgment  as  to  which  company  I  allocated  the  problem 
to. 

29.  Therefore,  in  the  development  of  our  relationship  with  Nobel,  the  follow- 
ing questions  will  come  up: 

*  No.  First,  is  the  Paris  office  justified,  in  its  efforts  to  sell  Nobel  goods, 
in  giving  Nobel  the  results  of  all  the  experience  which  it  has  acquired  as 
representative  of  du  Pont? 

30.  Is  the  Paris  office  justified  in  deciding  that  a  certain  order  should  be 
placed  with  du  Pont  or  Nobel,  if  the  decision  is  to  be  made  based  on  the 
ability  of  the  given  company  to  manufacture  in  accordance  with  the  require- 
ments of  the  problems? 

31.  Is  the  Paris  office  justified  in  negotiating  a  contract  which  requires  the 
study  of  a  new  technical  problem? 

32.  If  so,  is  the  Paris  office  justified  in  saying  that  du  Pont  will  take  this 
problem  because  tliey  can  do  it,  and  Nobel  will  not  take  up  this  problem  because 
they  cannot  do  it? 

33.  Can  the  Paris  office  negotiate  a  contract  for  du  Pont  with  a  provision 
for  giving  the  purchaser  certain  knowledge  regarding  the  manufacture  of 
powder,  first  offering  this  knowledge  to  Nobel,  or  without  consulting  Nobel? 

34.  Is  it  correct,  in  order  to  avoid  the  development  of  the  above  type  of 
problem,  that  the  Paris  office  should  abandon  business  where  the  question  of 
a  technical  study  is  involved  and  confine  itself  to  simply  selling  what  might 
be  described  as  the  curi-ent  manufacture  of  the  two  companies? 

35.  I  foresee  that,  within  six  months,  every  one  of  the  above  questions  will 
come  up  and  it  appears  to  me  that  there  is  no  provision  for  the  solution  of 
these  questions  in  the  contract  under  which  the  Paris  office  is  working,  and 
it  appears  evident  that  the  Paris  office  is  not  competent  to  decide  the  above 
questions,  and  if  the  Paris  office  has  no  direction  along  which  to  work  in  view 
of  the  above,  our  business  is  going  to  be  a  great  deal  interfered  with. 

36.  As  these  questions  will  surely  come  up,  it  npi>ears  to  me  that  they  should 
be  foreseen  and  an  agreement  made  with  Nobel  before  the  occasion  arises, 
otherwise  tlie  Paris  office  will  find  itself  in  the  position  of  taking  responsibility 
of  action  on  wliat  are  general  company  problems.  I  thing  the  Paris  office 
should  be  given  specific  instructions  as  to  its  action  in  these  cases. 

37.  To  possibly  enlighten  the  discussion,  I  would  like  to  give  the  following 
personal  opinion :  Our  future  business  will  probably  be,  in  every  case,  in  the 
form  of  a  solution  to  a  new  ballistic  problem  and  the  business  of  selling  what 
might  be  called  the  current  production  of  the  two  companies  is  practically 
over,  and  as  the  agreement  of  the  20th  of  October  1926  was  based  upon  the 
idea  that  the  sales  would  be  of  current  products,  it  seems  to  me  that  this 
agreement  will  no  longer  cover  the  situation.  I  further  believe  that  the  volume 
of  business  will  be  inevitably  tied  up  with  the  obligation  to  teach  the  Euroi>ean 
customers  how  to  produce,  in  their  own  country,  the  powder  resulting  from 
the  solution  of  the  problem. 

38.  I  further  believe  that  it  will  be  impossible  from  a  sales  point  of  view 
to  successfully  conduct  the  negotiations  with  du  Pont  and  Nobel  competing 
between  themselves.  I  also  believe  that  the  number  of  cases  in  which  du  Pont 
will  find  a  solution  will  be  greater  than  the  number  of  -ases  in  which  Nobel 
will  find  a  solution,  but  the  technical  knowledge  of  the  Paris  office  is  not  suffi- 
cient for  the  Paris  office  to  decide  which  company  should  study  which  problem. 

39.  I  further  believe  that  the  organization  of  the  du  Punt  Company  permits 
us  to  work  along  these  lines  and  that  our  state  of  technical  development  would 
permit  us  to  give  a  certain  knowledge  to  the  European  factories  without  harm 
to  ourselves,  but  that  the  state  of  development  of  the  Nobel  organization 
renders  the  solution  of  such  problems  much  more  difficult,  longer,  and  less 
likely  of  success.  The  Paris  office  has  not  an  intimate  knowledge  of  the  Nobel 
organization  nor  the  possibilities  of  cooperation  that  it  has  with  du  Pont. 

40.  Of  the  possible  solutions,  one  would  be  a  division  of  territories,  certain 
territories  to  be  only  for  du  Pont  to  be  free  to  do  as  they  wish  and  other 


Pencil  marking. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2589 

territories  to  be  for  Nobel  to  be  free  to  do  as  they  wish.  This  solution  has 
disadvantages,  as  it  means  restricting  du  Font's  activities  on  tlie  Continent 
and  also  restricting  Nobel's  activities.  The  dissolution  of  our  sales  agree- 
ment of  October  20tli,  1926,  would  certainly  cause  very  active  competition  and 
probably  bad  feeling  in  the  relations  between  the  two  companies. 

41.  Giving  the  whole  problem  to  du  Pont  on  a  profit-sharing  basis  with 
Nobel  would  probably  not  be  accepted  by  them  as  satisfactory,  although  from 
the  sales  point  of  view,  it  would  be  the  most  workable. 

42.  I  see  no  happy  solution  of  this  question,  but  I  am  clear  that  these  prob- 
lems will,  in  a  very  short  time,  become  acute,  and  I  hereby  request  instruc- 
tions. 

Vei"y  truly  yours, 

(S)     William  N.  Taylok. 
WNTRB/ 


Exhibit  No.  039 

[File  :MS~S0-A.      135.      MS-S.      MS-208.      D-1307] 

January  10,    1928. 
Col.  W.  N.  Taylor, 

16  Place  Vendome,  Paris,  France. 
Dear  Sib  :  1.  Your  letter  T-1012,  cooperation  with  Nobel.  This  letter  con- 
tains reasons  set  forth  in  42  paragraphs  why  cooperation  with  Nobel  is  not 
feasible.  In  replying  to  tlie  various  questions  asked  by  you,  we  think  that 
you  are  reading  in  tlie  Nobel-du  Pont  agreement  things  which  are  not  men- 
tioned. The  agreement  was  one  of  cooperation  on  matters  of  sales  in  Euro- 
pean territory.  If  you  limit  your  efforts  for  Nobel  entirely  to  sales,  we  think 
your  troubles  would  be  few,  but  when  you  attempt  to  tell  Nobel  they  are 
right  or  wrong  on  the  quality  of  their  products,  or  the  necessity  for  Nobel  to 
do  development  work  in  order  to  place  themselves  in  position  to  successfully 
compete  on  military  pov.der  business,  you  naturally  place  Nobel  on  the  defen- 
sive and  they  in  turn  seek  to  acquire  from  us  the  results  of  our  development 
work. 

2.  We  feel  that  the  Paris  ofRce  should  pass  on  to  Nobel  Company  all  in- 
quiries for  military  powder  and  obtain  from  Nobel  their  minimum  sales  prices. 
It  is  our  idea  that  the  Paris  office  should  function  with  Nobel  in  the  same 
manner  that  you  function  with  Wilmington  on  sales.  Paris  does  not  wire  or 
write  to  Wilmington  and  tell  us  to  do  development  work  or  research  work 
before  quoting  prices  on  military  powder.  We  do  the  development  work  long 
before  quoting  prices,  and  if  Nobel  does  not  see  fit  to  follow  such  a  procedure, 
perhaps  they  can  achieve  success  along  other  lines.  You  should  not  consider 
that  you  personally  are  responsible  for  the  quality  of  powder  manufactured 
by  Nobel.  This  is  only  true  when  we  take  a  European  order  and  allocate 
Nobel  a  portion  of  the  powder  for  manufacture.  In  such  a  case  the  contract 
would  be  with  the  du  Pont  Company,  regardless  of  where  the  powder  might 
be  manufactured,  and  the  du  Pont  Company  would  be  the  loser  in  the  event 
the  product  was  not  in  accordnnce  with  the  specifications.  If  the  Paris  oflSce 
should  sul)mit  prices  on  powder  for  Nobel  and  prices  for  du  Pont  on  the 
same  prospect,  assuming  that  prices  were  exactly  the  same,  the  choice  of 
placing  the  order  would  be  entirely  with  the  customer,  and  if  you  are  unbiased 
in  the  matter,  you  would  make  no  effort  to  take  the  business  for  du  Pont  or 
Nobel.  The  question  of  allocation  can  never  be  settled  by  you  nor  by  us,  as  it 
is  a  matter  which  the  purchaser  must  decide,  and  Nobel  and  du  Pont  have  to 
be  satisfied  with  that  decision.  Our  experience  in  Poland  has  taught  us  that 
it  is  impracticable  to  assume  that  a  large  order  can  be  divided  on  some  agreed 
to  basis  between  Nobel  and  du  Pont. 

3.  As  long  as  you  continue  to  function  with  Nobel  on  the  basis  of  keeping 
tliem  advised  as  to  whether  their  product  is  good,  poor,  or  indifferent,  you  will 
find  trouble  for  yourself  and  us.  You  will  recall  when  the  writer  was  in' London 
that  you  cautioned  Nobel  how  necessary  it  was  to  manufacture  experimental 
samples  and  to  pay  strict  attention  to  various  items  in  the  manufacture  of  nitro- 
cellulose powder  in  order  that  they  would  be  in  a  position  to  manufacture  a 
product  of  quality.     The  writer  took  the  position  that  the  specifications  would 

•  Pencil  markings. 


2590  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

give  the  Nobel  company  what  the  customer  desired  in  the  way  of  quality,  and 
that  it  was  not  the  business  of  the  salesman  to  take  the  responsibility  of  stress- 
ing certain  features  of  the  specifleatious.  Fairther,  that  the  peciflcations  were 
drawn  up  so  that  the  manufaciurer  would  know  full  well  what  the  purchaser 
desired  in  the  way  of  quality  and  the  acceptance  of  the  specifications  by  the 
contractor  meant  that  he  was  fully  aware  of  his  obligations,  and  in  quoting  on 
a  prospect,  did  so  with  the  idea  that  he  could  fulfill  the  specifications  100%. 
This  is  the  basis  on  which  the  Paris  office  functions  with  Wilmington  and  should 
be  the  procedure  between  Paris  and  London. 

4.  We  do  not  intend  to  furnish  technical  information  to  Nobel  on  any  rifle  or 
cannon  powder  which  we  have  in  the  past  made  up  or  may  make  up  for  European 
governments.  The  sole  exception  to  this  is  in  the  case  of  Poland,  where  we  have 
promised  and  are  willing  to  show  the  Nobel  representative  the  manufacture  of 
ritle  and  cannon  powder  on  the  Polish  contract. 

5.  Would  it  not  be  a  good  plan  for  you  to  announce  to  Nobel  that  from  this 
date  on  you  are  concerned  only  with  their  prices  on  powder  on  prospects  where 
you  intend  quoting  for  Nobel ;  that  on  all  prospects  you  contemplate  submitting 
prices  for  Nobel-du  Pont  and  would  like  our  prices  to  be  exactly  the  same?  At 
the  end  of  the  year  it  is  up  to  the  officials  of  Nobel  and  du  Pont  to  get  together 
and  make  an  allocation  which  will  be  satisfactory  to  all  concerned.  We  feel 
that  you  are  quite  satisfied  that  you  are  in  no  position  to  make  the  allocation  in 
question  before  bidding  on  a  prospect,  and  if  this  is  true,  why  not  try  to  get  the 
business  for  either  Nobel  or  du  Pont  by  an  impartial  method  of  quoting  exactly 
the  same  price  for  the  product  of  both  concerns?  This  plan  will  undoubtedly 
lessen  your  troubles  with  Nobel. 

6.  Of  course,  we  shall  discuss  the  Nobel  agreement  with  Sir  Henry  MacGowan 
or  other  Nobel  officials  when  they  visit  Wilmington  in  the  near  future.  We  be- 
lieve that  our  discussion  will  result  in  a  working  plan  very  similar  to  that  out- 
linetl  in  this  letter,  as  we  feel  it  is  the  only  satisfactory  solution  to  the 
numerous  questions  set  forth  in  your  letter  T-1012. 

7.  Before  replying  to  this,  may  we  suggest  that  you  await  the  arrival  of  Mr. 
Singer,  who  has  on  numerous  occasions  discussed  the  Nobel  agreement  with 
us,  and  he  undoubtedly  can  furnish  you  with  details  and  reasons  for  the 
conclusion  drawn  above. 

8.  Your  letter  T-1012  certainly  tells  the  story  of  the  Nobel-du  Pont  military 
sales  cooperation.  We  are  glad  that  you  wrote  us  in  detail  and  gave  us  your 
very  complete  thoughts  on  all  the  items  which  have  been  and  will  continue  to 
cause  you  discomfort  and  trouble.  You  may  be  sure  that  we  will  make  an 
earnest  effort  to  revise  the  agreement  so  that  your  work  with  Nobel  in  the 
future  will  be  a  pleasant  task.  This  cannot  be  done  as  easily  as  it  can  be 
written,  but  if  you  will  do  your  part,  as  suggested  in  this  letter,  we  will  do  our 
utmost  to  bring  about  a  satisfactory  change. 

Very  truly  yours, 

W.  H.  O'GoKMAN,  Asst.  Director. 
WHO'G/h. 

Exhibit  No.  940 

[ICI — Militar.v   Powers.     D-1.378] 

March  10,   1928. 
Conference  with  Nobel  officials. 
Col.  W.  N.  Taylor, 

16  Place  Yen  dome,  Paris,  France. 

Dear  Sir:  On  March  9th,  a  conference  took  place  between  Nobel  and  du  Pont 
officials  on  matters  appertaining  to  sales  of  military  products  of  both  com- 
jianies.  We  have  not  as  yet  been  furnished  with  a  copy  of  the  minutes  of 
the  conference,  but  the  following  as  reported  by  Major  Casey  is  a  summary 
of  recommendations : 

(f/)  A  10-year  agreement  between  Nobel  and  du  Pont  covering  military  sales 
in  Europe  be  entered  into  as  more  or  less  of  a  continuation  of  the  1925  agree- 
ment.. 

{h)  It  was  explained  to  Nobel  that  our  Paris  office  is  not  in  a  position  to 
furnish  technical  information,  and  thei'efore  all  technical  problems  should 
be  referred  to  Wilmington.  We  offered  Nobel  our  facilities  at  Brandywine 
Laboratory  for  the  development  of  nitrocellulose  rifle  powders  for  British  Army 
cartridges.     We   suggested   that  Brandywine   would   welcome   visits   of   Nobel 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2591 

techuicul  meu,  and  we  would  undertake  to  develop  nitrocellulose  rifle  powdersj 
to  fulfill  the  British  reiiuirenients,  provided  Nobel  would  furnish  us  with  guns 
and  components  to  be  used  in  ballistic  tests.  The  development  would  then  be 
turned  over  to  Nobel  and,  if  necessary,  we  would  send  a  man  to  Ardeer  to 
assist  in  the  manufacture  of  nitrocellulose  rifle  powder  for  the  British  Gov- 
ernment. AH  technical  infoi-mation  passed  on  to  Nobel  would  be  on  the 
basis  of  Nobel  agreeing  to  consider  same  as  confidential,  and  under  no  condi- 
tion divulge  it  to  subsidiary  or  other  companies  in  which  Nobel  may  have  part 
iiwnership  of  some  other  interest. 

(c)  We  advocated  that  the  sale  in  South  America  of  nulitary  products  of 
both  du  Pont  and  Nobel  be  under  the  jurisdiction  of  du  P<jnt,  Wilmingtcm. 

{(I)  We  recommended  that  our  Paris  office  have  complete  charge  of  all 
European  powder  sales  for  Nobel  and  du  Pont,  and  that  the  Vienna  oflice  of 
Nobel  function  under  our  Paris  ofiit-e. 

Mr.  Mitchell  was  not  prepared  to  make  a  decision  in  this  connection  as  he 
was  without  details  and  felt  that  the  present  arrangement  functioned  satis- 
factorily. He  stated  that  upon  his  return  to  London  he  would  communicate 
with  Colonel  Taylor  for  the  purpose  of  having  a  conference  in  order  to 
determine  whether  the  recommended  arrangement  would  be  best  for  all 
concerned. 

2.  Attached  is  memorandum  which  the  writer  prepared  for  the  above-men- 
tioned conference,  and  which  may  be  of  service  to  you  when  you  talk  with 
Mr.  Mitchell. 

3.  We  believe  it  is  generally  admitted  among  the  Nobel  executives  that 
our  military-sales  organization  is  better  equipped  to  handle  foreign  sales  than 
is  Nobel.  It  is  with  this  thought  that  we  recommended  that  all  European 
sales  for  both  com]ianies  be  handled  through  the  Paris  office.  Mr.  Mitchell 
no  doubt  desires  to  iliscuss  this  subject  with  Nobel  London  before  he  con- 
fers with  youj  It  woidd  therefore  seem  wise  for  you  to  prepare  a  memo- 
randum showing  the  advantages  which  may  be  gained  through  the  adoption  of 
our  recommendation,  and  also  to  point  out  specific  cases  where  business  has 
bei'n  taken  by  comiietitors  because  of  the  lack  of  unity  of  action  on  the  part 
of  du  Pont  and  Nobel. 

4.  From  your  cable  #6";8  it  aiipears  that  you  can  cite  your  pre.sent  negotia- 
tions in  Poland  as  an  example  of  what  both  companies  may  lose  through  lack 
of  unity  of  action. 


Very  truly  yours, 
WHO(G:N 


W.   H.    O'GoBMAN,   Asst.   DhTcffrr. 


Exhibit  No.  941 

[Filo:    MS-80-.\.      D-l:!84] 

December  12,  1927. 
Col.  W.  N.  Tayloe, 

16  Place  Vendome,  Pwris,  France. 

Deab  Sir:  Your  letter  T-1009'— Prance— 13.2  m/m  Hotchkiss. 

We  appreciate  that  the  adoption  of  the  Hotchkiss  13.2  gun  by  France  will 
undoubtedly  bring  about  an  embax'rassing  situation  for  the  French  Powder  Serv- 
ice. It  must  be  fairly  well  known  among  the  French  that  we  have  during  the 
past  two  years  manufactured  a  satisfactorj  powder  for  this  gun.  We,  of  course, 
are  perfectly  willing  to  furnish  France  with  her  requirements  of  this  powder  but 
see  absolutely  no  reason  why  we  should  even  think  about  making  arrangements 
for  the  manufacture  of  the  powder  in  France  or  by  the  French  Powder  Service. 
Having  in  mind  our  conversation  in  Paris  concerning  the  possibility  of  France 
adopting  a  multiperforated  type  of  grain  for  larger  guns,  it  seems  reasonable 
that  inmiediately  after  the  cannon-powder  samples  will  have  been  tested,  you 
will  have  an  opportunity  of  discussing  in  general  the  smokeless-powder  situation 
with  French  War  Department  officials.  At  that  time  you  undoubtedly  can 
bring  into  the  discussion  the  subject  of  powder  for  the  13.2  gun  and  offer  to 
supply  a  trial  lot  of  ten  tons.  It  is  logical  to  expect  that  the  French  War 
Department  might  purchase  a  trial  lot  even  though  it  has  been  stated  that  the 
French  Powder  Service  can  produce  a  satisfactory  propellent  for  the  13.2  gun. 

The  proposition  of  giving  or  selling  to  France  technical  information  which 
might  permit  the  French  Powder  Service  to  manufacture  13.2  powder  and  per- 
haps powder  of  the   multiperforated   type   is   one  which   depends   largely  on 


2592  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

whether  France  might  be  willing  to  contract  with  us  for  a  specific  percentage  of 
her  annual  requirements  of  smokeless  powder.  We  know  of  no  way  by  which 
a  valuation  could  be  placed  upon  technical  assistance  or  information  which  we 
might  furnish  to  the  French  Power  Service.  Therefore,  it  seems  to  us  that  it 
is  a  question  of  how  many  pounds  of  powder  we  can  sell  to  France  over  a  period 
of  years  in  return  for  our  technical  assistance  on  the  manufacture  of  nitro- 
cellulose-smokeless powder.  Of  course,  if  we  enter  into  any  agreement  with  the 
French  Powder  Service,  it  would  be  on  the  basis  of  that  service  furnishing  the 
powder  to  France  and  France  only.  We  would  not  permit  them  to  manufacture 
our  type  of  powder  for  any  other  foreign  government. 

The  matter  of  furnishing  technical  assistance  to  foreign  governments  or  for- 
eign plants  is  one  which  comes  up  quite  often.  In  general,  our  policy  is  not  to 
answer  the  question  until  we  have  some  indication  as  to  whether  the  giving  of 
technical  assistance  will  result  in  a  large  order  or  orders.  If  it  is  necessary  to 
answer  the  question  as  to  the  giving  of  technical  assistance  before  any  informa- 
tion can  be  had  as  to  whether  the  foreign  government  will  agree  to  give  us  a 
percentage  of  its  powder  requirements  over  a  period  of  years,  we  think  our 
position  should  be  as  follows : 

The  du  Pont  Company  will  furnish  technical  assistance  on  powder  manu- 
facture, providing  we  can  be  guaranteed  orders  for  a  definite  quantity  of  powder 
per  annum  over  a  period  of  ten  years.  Of  course,  our  decision  will  be  based 
upon  the  quantity  of  powder  which  we  will  be  permitted  to  manufacture  for 
the  customer  over  the  specified  period. 

Very  truly  yours,  W.  H.  O'Gorman,  Asst.  Director. 

WHO'G/h. 

("Exhibit  No.  942"   appears  in   text   on  p.   24.i0.) 


Exhibit  No.   943 
[File:  MS-80-A] 

MEETING   HELD  AT   NOBEL  HOUSE  ON    9TH    NOVEMBER    102o 

Present :  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont,  Major  K.  K.  V.  Casey,  Colonel  W.  N.  Taylor, 
Mr.  A.  G.  Major. 

The  discussion  evidenced  that  the  du  Pont  representatives  accept  our. theory 
that  eventually :  (1)  European  countries  will  be  selfsupplying  and/or  (2)  draw 
their  supplies  from  countries  more  logically  situated  (sieographically)  than  the 
U.S.A.,  and  that  jointly  du  Pont  and  ourselves  should  adopt  the  policy  of 
affording  technical  assistance  to  European  countries  wishing  to  erect  factories 
in  return  for  a  fee  and  the  guarantee  of  powder  orders  to  us  during  the  erection 
period. 

Colonel  Taylor  suggested  that  Nobel's  are  more  interested  in  having  a  financial 
interest  in  such  propellant  factories  and  taking  their  profits  that  way  rather 
than  through  the  supply  of  powder.  He  also  expressed  the  view  that  we  were 
not  so  free  to  collaborate  with  du  Pont  to  the  extent  that  might  be  necessary  on 
account  of  our  commitments  in  other  directions. 

It  was  pointed  out  that  so  far  we  had  only  gone  in  for  industrial  explosives 
in  this  connection  and  our  policy  had  been  to  avoid  the  propellant  powder  side, 
except  where  we  were  forced  to  adopt  it,  e.g.,  the  Czechoslovakian  Explosives 
Company.  If,  however,  we  were  forced  to  enter  the  propellants  field,  we  adopted 
the  plan  as  outlined  above  by  Colonel  Tayloi*. 

Roth  IMajor  Casey  and  Colonel  Taylor  put  forward  for  consideration  the 
principle  of  N.G.  powders  for  Nobel  and  N.C.  powders  for  du  Pont.  In  answer 
to  this  it  was  explained  that  this  was  not  a  proposition  we  could  put  up  to  our 
management  as  it  seemed  to  us  inequitable — any  cooperation  should  be  based  on 
a  proper  division  of  the  required  supplies. 

A  discussion  followed  concerning  the  extension  of  the  Greek  Powder  C<mipany's 
plant  to  enable  them  to  execute  their  contracts  with  their  own  government,  and 
it  was  agreed  to  find  a  basis  for  joint  working  (this  of  course  has  since  been 
effected ) . 

A  general  talk  ensued  on  the  formation  of  a  pool  in  Europe  embracing  Nobel, 
du  Pont,  Bofors,  and  the  Czechoslovak  Company,  but  no  decision  was  reached. 

3rd  Januaby  1928. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2593 

Exhibit  No.  944 

[File  MS-80-A;   MS-124] 
[D-2076] 

Prospects  of  future  sales.  May  21,  1930. 

Colonel  W.  N.  Taylor, 

16  Place  Vendome,  Paris,  France. 

Deab  Sir:  In  your  letters  T-1862  and  1893  you  summarized,  in  a  general 
way,  prospects  of  sale  to  various  European  countries.  In  paragraph  three  of 
your  letter  you  enumerated  various  conditions  under  items  "  a  "  to  "  h ", 
inclusive,  and  in  paragraph  four  you  made  two  remmendations  under  captions 
"  a  "  and  "  b." 

Your  recommendations  need  no  approval  from  this  office  as  similar  projects 
have  come  up  for  discussion  many  times  during  the  last  five  years,  and  on 
each  occasion  we  have  approved  the  plan  which  you  suggested. 

We  are  willing  to  sell  our  "  Know  How  "  providing  by  so  doing  we  will  make 
additional  sales  of  smokeless  powder.  One  basis  on  which  to  trade  is  for 
the  firm  to  which  we  give  the  "  Know  How  "  to  divide  its  smokeless  powder 
business  over  the  next  ten-year  period  on  a  basis  which  would  justify  our 
giving  to  that  concern  or  government  the  "  Know  How  "  and  technical  assist- 
ance on  powder  making.  Tliis,  in  general,  has  been  our  policy  and  it  can 
only  be  formulated  into  a  si3ecific  proiwsition  in  cases  where  we  are  fully 
aware  of  conditions  in  connection  with  the  government  factory  or  privately 
ownetl  concern  in  Europe  which  may  be  producing  powder  for  its  government. 

If  we  are  to  succeed  in  making  sales  of  military  powders  abroad,  we  un- 
doubtedly have  to  make  connection  with  European  government  factories  or 
powder  companies  in  such  countries  that  do  not  have  government  powder 
factories. 

Orders  in  Europe  are  few  and  far  between  and,  at  the  present  time,  it 
cannot  be  said  that  our  prospects  are  good  other  than  on  the  sale  of  FNH 
powder  to  the  Polish  Government.  It  seems  as  though  we  should  start  at 
once  to  see  what  connections  we  can  make  and  nnder  what  conditions  we 
might  be  able  to  make  a  tie-up  with  factories  in  Europe.  AVIiat  we  do  in  this 
connection  depends  mostly  upon  you  and  we  expect  to  hear  from  you  more 
specifically  on  the  Coopal  factory  and  also  on  the  Muiden  factory  in  Holland. 
Very  truly  yours, 

W.  H.  O'GoRMAN,  xisst.  Director. 
WHO'G :  MH 


("  Exhibit  No.  945  "  appears  in  text  on  p.  245.5.) 


("Exhibit  No.  946"   appears  in  text  on  p.   2456.) 


Exhibit  No.  947 

[File  MS-IOO-R] 
Memo,  for  file. 

Report  No-.  38-H,  April  29,  1924 

Washington.  Ai)ril  28,  192.'/. 

I.  ordnance  DEPT'. 

Left  Aberdeen  Proving  Ground  at  11  a.  m.  in  order  to  be  certain  of  getting  in 
touch  with  Gen.  Ruggles  before  he  left  for  the  afternoon.  Met  Major  .J.  K. 
Grain  in  the  hallway  just  outside  of  Gen.  Ruggles'  oflice,  who  greeted  me  with  a 
statement  that  I  had  come  to  find  out  if  the  Ordnance  Dept.  would  sanction  the 
du  Pont  Co.  assisting  the  Polish  Govt,  in  the  manufacture  of  "  IMR  "  powder, 
and  this  was  based  on  cablegram  from  the  European  military  attache's  office  in 
Paris.  I  advised  that  his  question  was  apparently  Itased  on  incomplete  informa- 
tion, giving  a  misconception  of  the  situation.  I  showed  Major  Grain  our  letter 
of  April  26th  addressed  to  the  Chief  of  Ordnance,  and  proposed  that  we  discuss 
the  subject  with  Gen.  Ruggles  in  detail.  There  was  nut  time  to  do  this  very 
thoroughly  with  Gen.  Ruggles  because  of  pending  engagement  of  his  in  Col. 


2594  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Ferguson's  office  to  discuss  "  Muscle  Shoals."  However,  discussion  was  guided 
along  lines  that  indicated  to  Gen.  Ruggles  that  it  was  very  desirable  tliat  the 
work  be  undertaken  as  they  stood  to  profit  by  it.  The  flake  rifle  powder  situa- 
tion was  emphasized,  and  apparent  contradictions  were  cleared  up.  Even  be- 
fore seeing  our  letter,  Gen.  Ruggles  had  dictated  an  endorsement  relating  to  the 
military  attache's  cable,  stating  that  it  was  vastly  more  important  to  encourage 
the  du  Pont  Co.  to  continue  in  the  manufacture  of  propellants  for  military  use, 
than  to  endeavor  to  protect  secrets  relating  to  the  manufacture.  Major  Grain 
dictated  the  letter  of  reply  to  us,  based  on  instructions  from  Gen.  Ruggles. 
There  was  no  argument  or  hesitation  in  making  the  decision  as  to  their  attitude. 
Question  did  arise,  however,  as  to  tlie  need  of  submitting  this  question  to  the 
Bureau  of  Ordnance  of  the  Navy.  I  stated  that  I  expected  to  see  Capt.  Hough, 
of  the  Division  of  Naval  Intelligence,  and  would,  as  a  matter  of  courtesy  to  the 
Navy  Dept.,  mention  the  matter.  Capt.  Hough  was  absent  from  the  oflSce  on 
account  of  illness,  hut  the  subject  was  discussed  briefly  with  his  assistant, 
Comdr.  Galbraith,  who  had  little  comment  to  make,  except  that  he  would  like 
copies  of  the  correspondence,  simply  for  record. 

II.   NAVY  DEPT. 

(o)  Division  of  Naval  Intelligence. — Discussed  subject  as  noted  above  with 
Comdr.  Galbraith.  also  the  recent  correspondence  regarding  Capt.  Sugimato's 
letter,  and  Japanese  visitors.  No  difference  of  opinion  developed  during  this 
discussion. 

(&)  Bureau  of  Ordnance. — Made  further  detailed  arrangements  with  Comdr. 
Courts  regarding  tests  of  "  Pyralin  Containers",  for  5"  51  cal.  powder  charges, 
to  be  made  at  Dahlgren  Proving  Ground  on  May  2d. 

Subject  of  safety  and  fire  inspection  of  the  Naval  Depot  at  Lake  Denmark, 
following  similar  inspection  of  Picatinny  Arsenal,  was  mentioned,  and  Comdr. 
Courts  took  this  subject  up  with  Admiral  Bloch.  The  latter  concluded  that  it 
was  not  advisable  to  have  such  inspection  made  because  there  were  no  funds 
available  to  correct  known  defective  conditions. 

C.  I.  B.  Henning, 
CIBH:N  (s)     C.  I.  B.  H. 


ExHiHiT  No.  948 
[File  99-12-2] 


November   10.    19.33. 


du  Pont-I.  C.  I.  patents  and  processes  agreement. 
Mr.  W.  R.  SwiNT, 

Director  Foreign  Relations  Department: 
In  answer  to  the  questions  contained  in  your  letter  of  November  2d : 
1.  We  have  received  no  valuable  assistance  from  I.  C.  I.  on  new  products  or 
new  processes  but  have  had  valuable  assistance  along  the  line  of  improvements 
in  exi.sting  processes  in  two  instances:  (a)  In  the  process  for  refining  TNT, 
and  (b)  the  complete  process  for  manufacturing  tetryl.  Up  until  recently  we 
have  received  very  few  suggestions  or  ideas  for  new  lines  of  research  or  new 
approaches  to  existing  research  prol^lems.  Over  tiie  past  few  years  there  has 
been  a  definite  iraiJrovement  in  the  practical  nature  of  the  work  carried  out  by 
I.  C.  I.  as  affei'ting  explosives.  The  commercial  attitude  seems  to  have  been 
inserted  more  and  more,  and,  at  the  present  time,  there  is  one  problem  on  which 
they  are  working  which  has  stinnilated  thoughts  along  the  same  lines  in  cur 
minds,  namely,  the  development  of  a  practical  method  for  providing  safety 
sheaths  for  explosives  to  be  iised  in  coal  mines.  Up  until  the  present  time  our 
connections  with  I.  C.  I.  have  lieen  chiefly  of  value  in  reference  to  improvement 
in  existing  pi'ocesses,  and  have  been  of  very  minor  inipi  rtance  in  connection 
with  new  products  or  new  processes.  There  is  no  question  but  that  the  in- 
formation received  from  I.  C.  I.  has  been  of  a  valuable  nature,  and  the  situation 
in  this  respect  seems  to  be  improving  as  time  goes  on. 

C.  A.  WoooBiTRY,  Director. 
CAW  :  MKB 

Tlie  above   is   an   excerpt   of  letter   to  Mr.   W.   K.    Swint,   as   shown    in   first 
paragraph. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2595 

Exhibit  No.  948 1/2 

56  RUE  DE  Vatjgiraed, 

Paris,  6e., 
October  10,  1922. 
T-37. 

Siiles  in  the  Balkans. 
Mr.  K.  K.  V.  Casey, 

E.  1.  du  Pont  de  Nemours,  Wilmington,  Del. 

In  the  Balkans  I  ran  across  a  situation  so  entirely  different  from  anything 
we  have  in  America  that  I  am  writing  this  in  addition  to  my  letter  no.  36'  to 
try  to  give  you  a  picture  of  the  situation  there. 

We  want  to  sell  powder  in  the  Balkans  and  powder  can  be  sold  to  the  Balkans 
but  the  method  of  straight  selling  for  what  they  need  and  getting  paid  for  it 
will  not  work.  If  you  draw  a  line  from  Ti'ieste  t<>  Warsaw  and  go  east  of  that 
line,  you  find  the  business  and  tinancial  conditions  run  on  a  set  of  rules  entirely 
their  own,  and  if  we  can't  conform  to  the  situation  we  won't  be  able  to  get  any 
business.  There  the  ordinary  business  ethics  are  entirely  different  from  ours 
and  people  have  no  knowledge  of  ours,  they  don't  know  what  our  business 
ethics  mean.  Their  financial  methods  and  the  methods  of  raising  money  from 
their  goveriuuents  are  also  entirely  different  from  ours. 

In  the  first  place,  the  country  is  constituted  of  a  great  mass  of  peasants  who 
work  in  the  fields  and  cannot  read  nor  write.  Until  comparatively  recently  the 
governments  were  abs<dute  monarchies  run  by  a  group  of  people  around  the 
monarch  who,  by  every  means  whicli  they  could  imagine,  extracted  money  from 
the  peasants  without  any  idea  of  what  we  might  call  a  national  instinct  or  any 
idea  of  being  fair  or  doing  good  to  the  peasant — on  the  contrary  !  Generally  in 
these  countries  are  several  groups  of  such  people  and  all  political  agitation  is 
simply  a  tight  between  these  different  groups  to  get  their  hands  on  the  spoils. 
The  great  western  European  powers  have  attempted  to  force  upon  these  people 
the  western  ideas  of  government  and  ethics  and  the  result  has  been  merely 
a  complication  of  tlieir  primitive  methods.  They  begin  by  collecting  all  the 
taxes  they  can,  then  they  purchase  things  for  the  government  and  all  of  them 
collect  all  the  graft  they  can  in  every  way  out  of  these  purchases.  They  don't 
much  care  what  they  pay  so  long  as  they  get  the  graft,  which  is  their  main 
object.  Internal  politics  consist  of  disputing  over  the  graft — external  politics 
consist  in  developing  complications  which  permit  them  to  spend  or  collect  more 
government  money.  The  idea  of  doing  anything  for  the  good  of  the  country 
has  never  been  translated  into  their  language. 

For  instance,  the  idea  of  issuing  an  internal  government  loan,  selling  it  to 
the  people,  has  never  occurred  to  them  and  could  not  be  done.  When  they 
want  an  internal  loan  they  get  together  the  rich  merchants  and  Jews  and  say, 
"  You  will  lend  the  government  some  money  or  we  put  you  in  jail ;  if  you  do 
lend  the  government  money,  we  will  let  you  in  on  the  profits  for  15  or  20 
percent."  A  merchant  is  successful  when  he  knows  how  to  distribute  the 
graft  and  get  away  with  part  of  the  profits. 

If  you  do  down  to  that  country  with  something  to  sell  and  expect  to  find 
fair  competition  on  prices  and  quality,  you  will  be  very  much  deceived — ■ 
there  is  no  such  thing.  People  wh(>  traded  the  most  with  those  countries  and 
are  most  successful  are  the  English  and  Germans.  How  do  they  do  it?  Let 
us  take  Vickers  for  an  example.  It  is  impossible  for  Vickers,  with  their 
British  stockholders  and  their  English  business  ethics,  to  play  this  game  di- 
rectly. So  they  use  the  intermediary  of  a  man  like  Sir  Basil  Zaharoff,  who 
is  the  most  important  of  his  class,  who  acts  about  as  follows :  He  gets  a 
price  from  Vickers  with  a  discount  of  40  or  50  percent.  He  goes  to  the  country 
and  he  says,  "  You  need  so  much  material.  I'll  provide  you  with  this  whole 
lot  and  give  you  so  much  graft  and  I'll  lend  you  the  money  to  buy  it  with." 
Then  he  will  go  to  a  local  banker  or  merchant  and  he'll  say  this,  "  We  will 
make  a  loan  through  Mr.  So-and-So  to  the  government  and  this  loan  will  bring 
you  a  very  large  interest  and  we  will  give  so  much  commission  to  the  Minister 
of  Finance  ",  and  he'll  promise  to  collect  enough  taxes  to  pay  this  loan  and  he 
does  not  got  the  commission  until  the  loan  is  paid  back.  He  gets  his  money 
from  these  various  people.  The  government  pays  Vickers  the  full  amount 
less  the  discount  which  goes  to  some  intermediary.  In  time  the  government 
collects  taxes,  pays  back  the  people  who  made  the'  loan,  and  all  the  people  in 
the  game  pocket  the  profits.     He  has  now  made  an  arrangement  of  this  type 


2596  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

for  refilling  the  Greek  Army.  If  we  want  to  sell  down  there  we  will  have  to 
do  somewhat  the  same  thing.  We  will  have  to  go  to  the  government  and  say 
"  We  can  furnish  you  with  a  variety  of  materials,  large  orders,  which  will 
make  a  big  enough  sum  to  be  interesting.  We  will  cover  fixed  anununition, 
powder,  rifles,  and  cannons,  shoes,  uniforms,  etc.,  and  we  will  help  to 
arrange  a  loan  to  permit  you  to  pay  for  this."  We  can  then  go  to  a  local 
bank  and  say  "  Now  you  want  to  arrange  a  loan  to  the  government  to  pay  for 
this  material  on  which  you  will  get  a  large  percentage."  This  bank  will  get 
up  a  private  loan,  promising  large  interests  to  the  subscribers,  subject  to  a 
purchase  of  material  to  our  combination. 

In  order  to  work  this  we  must  work  through  an  American  bank  who  will 
act  as  an  intermediary  between  us  and  the  local  bank  and  must  be  able  to  do 
its  share  in  raising  the  loan  among  the  rich  nationals  of  the  country  to  which 
we  sell,  who  are  resi'lents  in  America.  If  we  could  find  a  bank  who  knew 
how  to  do  this  we  should  get  up  an  expedition  to  go  to  those  countries,  con- 
sisting of  representatives  of  the  bank,  technical  men  from  the  Bethlehem  Steel, 
a  small-arms  company,  an  ammunition  company,  and  sit  on  the  job  until  we 
could  negotiate. 

The  most  difficult  problem  in  America  would  be  to  find  a  bank  accustomed  to 
this  kind  of  operations.  There  are  a  great  many  such  banks  in  England,  par- 
ticularly the  Anglo-Persian  Bank,  who  does  nothing  else,  but  I  doubt  if  we 
can  count  on  the  English  banks  to  be  interested  in  the  purchase  of  material 
from  America.  The  American  bankers  are  not  accustomed  to  this  type  of 
operation  in  the  Balkan  countries.  I  had  a  little  talk  with  the  Morgan 
people  in  Paris  and  they  say  they  have  no  relations  in  those  countries  and 
that  while  such  operations  are  done  they  are  not  organized  to  work  in  the 
Balkans.  The  Guaranty  Trust  Co.  people  think  they  might  be  able  to  do  some- 
thing with  regard  to  Greece  but  they  both  say  that  they  think  that  it  should 
be  done  through  a  Jewish  bank. 

Any  attempt  to  organize  this  by  having  an  issue  of  the  local  Government 
bonds  to  be  sold  in  America  on  the  open  market,  is  utterly  impossible.  If  we 
want  this  business  bad  enough  we  could  take  the  Government  notes  ourselves 
and  we  could  arrange  to  have  enough  commission  on  the  sales  to  be  distributed 
to  the  right  people  and  to  be  paid  to  the  officials  only  after  the  Government 
has  met  his  obligations  to  us,  this  commission  being  a  sort  of  insurance  on 
being  paid.  If  we  could  do  it  ourselves  we  would  save  considerable  money  on 
commissions  and  would  make  our  prices  more  reasonable  and  less  open  to  public 
criticism.  I  think  if  we  could  take  the  Government  notes  in  payment  for  the 
offer  of  a  combined  lot  of  materials  to  about  $1,500,000  for  Serbia  and  about 
$3,000,000  for  Greece  and  would  allow  enough  percentage  to  be  distributed  and 
get  hold  of  a  fairly  trustworthy  distributor,  we  could  do  considerable  business 
in  these  countries.  Otherwise  I  think  our  only  chance  of  doing  business  is 
to  sell  a  little  powder  to  the  people  who  are  operating  in  that  manner,  which 
would  mean  instead  of  working  in  those  countries  attempting  to  sell  to  a 
Franco-Tchec  group  "  Skoda  &  Co."  or  to  the  British  group  around  Vickers. 

Selling  a  combined  lot  of  ordnance  and  taking  in  hand  the  creation  of  a 
loan  would  have  the  best  chance  of  success ;  sales  to  Vickers  or  Schneider  have 
the  second  best  chance  of  succeeding,  and  an  attempt  to  sell  powder  directly 
to  these  Governments  the  least  chance  of  succeeding. 

I  know  this  sounds  lilce  a  story  from  the  Arabian  Nights  and  will  probably 
be  digested  with  difficulty  at  Wilmington,  but  it  is  as  clear  an  exposure  of 
the  situation  in  the  Balkans  as  I  am  able  to  make.  Please  think  this  over 
and  tell  me  which  line  you  wish  me  to  pursue.  If  you  don't  feel  like  going 
into  a  loan  of  this  kind,  and  don't  know  any  bankers  who  would  undertake 
it,  it  is  possible  that  our  best  mode  of  operation  would  be  this :  That  our 
agents  in  these  countries  do  the  best  they  can  toward  little  sales  and  have 
me  put  my  time  on  the  big  munition  companies  in  the  western  European 
countries.  So  far  I  have  put  all  my  efforts  on  straight  selling  to  these  countries 
and  I  expect  to  get  some  results  but  I  don't  believe  that  that  method  is  going 
to  bring  us  anything  very  big.  I  think,  from  what  I  saw  in  the  Orient,  that 
there  are  very  great  chances  in  favor  of  a  war  in  the  Near  East.  And  one 
must  include  the  Balkans  as  being  part  of  the  Near  East.  Those  savage  people 
tlon't  know  how  to  live  without  w-ar  and  robberies.  They  have  in  the  past 
been  helped  in  a  certain  line  of  good  conduct  by  fear  of  the  military  action 
of  file  great  powers.  Before  the  Anglo-Turkish  incident  there  was  still  in 
the  Orient  a  great  fear  of  the  eastern  powers  but  the  fact  that  both  the  French 
and  the  English  refused  to  fight  Kemal  and  are  going  to  permit  him  to  enter 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2597 

Europe,  has  given  a  tremendous  blow  to  the  European  prestige  in  tliat  part 
of  the  country.  All  the  people  are  absolutely  astonished.  I  saw  Turks,  Bul- 
garians, Greeks,  and  Serbians,  and  with  one  accord  they  say  that  the  great 
powers  are  done  for,  that  they  are  afraid  to  fight  and  add  "  we  don't  have  to 
obe.v  them  any  more." 

To  maintain  European  prestige  in  those  coimtries  there  was  nothing  to  do 
but  fight  the  Turks  but  as  neither  the  French  nor  the  British  Governments 
felt  it  possible  to  ask  their  people  to  go  to  war,  they  simply  have  had  to  ac- 
cept a  tremendous  moral  defeat.  The  result  will  be  that  all  those  Near-Eastern 
people  will  feel  that  the  time  has  come  to  throw  off  the  government  of  the 
great  powers  and  if  it  does  not  lead  to  one  enormous  war  it  will  lead  to  a 
great  number  of  small  ones. 

If  we  want  to  sell  military  powder  to  these  people  we  have  got  to  hit  on  the 
proper  plan  and  get  busy  in  a  concentrated  way.  All  these  people  will  prob- 
ably buy  fixed  ammunition  and  it  looks  to  me  as  if  a  powder  factory  had  a 
fairly  small  chance  of  selling  directly  to  these  countries.  But  the  sales  to  these 
countries  should  be  made  by  the  big  munition  people  and  perhaps  our  best 
plan  is  to  concentrate  all  our  efforts  on  these  munition  firms. 

Please  give  me  a  directive. 

(s)     William  N.  Taylor. 
WNT/Mg. 

("Exhibit  No.  949"   appears  in   text   on  p.  2489.) 


Exhibit  No.  950 

[File  MS-80-A] 

February  3,  192S. 
Personal. 
Col.  W.  N.  Taylor, 

16  Place  Vendome,  Paris,  France. 
Dear  Taylor  :  In  reply  to  your  private  and  confidential  letter  of  January  18, 
1928.  designated  "  Letter  A",  I  cabled  you  a  reply  as  per  my  telegram  no.  588, 
confirmation  of  which  is  attached. 

We  will  pay  a  cash  discount  of  2%  at  the  signing  of  the  contract,  understand- 
ing that  the  2%  so  paid  is  part  of  the  regular  7%  commission.  Our  payment, 
however,  is  predicated  upon  Polish  payments  for  the  300  tons  of  powder  being 
satisfactory  to  us  and,  of  course,  the  price  at  which  the  powder  is  sold  likewise 
being  satisfactory. 

You  may  be  sure  in  the  event  that  you  conclude  a  deal  along  the  lines  indi- 
cated in  your  letter  of  January  18th  that  I  will  promptly  remit  by  cable  the 
amount  involved  to  pay  the  2%  commission,  so  that  there  will  be  no  delay. 
With  kindest  regards  and  wishing  the  best  of  luck,  I  am, 
Sincerely  yours, 

W.  H.  O'GoRMAN,  Assf.  Director. 
WHO'G/h. 

Exhibit  No.  951 

[144— Polish  Government.  MS-80-A] 

July  3,  1928. 
D-1552. 
Col.  W.  N.  Taylor, 

16  Place  Veudomc,  Paris,  France. 
Deiar  Sir:  We  acknowledge  receipt  of  your  cable  no.  678  and  confirm  our 
reply  no.  571,  copies  of  both  are  attached. 

1.  The  news  that  you  had  actually  begun  negotiations  on  a  new  contract 
with  Poland  covering  the  sale  of  1,200  tons  of  short-barrel  rifle  powder,  was 
indeed  gratifying.  It  is  noted  that  your  negotiations  may  be  concluded  within 
the  next  two  months  and  that  the  conditions  will  be  the  same  as  the  last 
contract. 

2.  Because  of  price  cutting  on  smokeless  powder  by  competitors,  you  ask  us  to 
name  the  lowest  price  at  which  powder  referred  to  above  could  be  sold  to 


2598  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Poland.  In  our  telegram  571,  we  advise  that  our  lowest  price  would  be  750  per 
pound  f.o.b.  our  plant.  Based  on  this  price  if  the  agent  is  to  be  paid  a  7% 
commission,  lie  would  receive  5i/40  per  pound  on  our  f.o.b.  price.  Wo  assume 
that  the  freight  and  insurance  charges  would  amount  to  20  per  pound  so  that 
the  total  c.i.f.  price,  including  everything,  would  be  821/40  and  we  authorize 
you  to  name  this  price  if  conditions  so  warrant. 

3.  In  i-egard  to  advance  of  2%  on  agent's  commission  on  new  order,  this 
matter  can  be  handled  exactly  the  same  as  we  did  on  the  1,000-ton  contract 
so  that  the  money  will  be  available  upon  receipt  of  telegraphic  advices  from 
you.  You  may  rely  upon  me  to  personally  take  care  of  this  matter  so  that  the 
funds  will  be  placed  to  Mr.  Klawe's  credit  within  48  hours  after  receipt  of 
telegraphic  advices  from  you. 

4.  If  the  above  arrangement  does  not  meet  with  Mr.  Klawe's  approval,  we 
could  arrange  to  make  Mr.  Klawe  an  advance  against  his  commission  on  the 
present  1,000-ton  contract.  Personally,  I  do  not  think  the  advance  should  be 
made  until  you  are  absolutely  certain  thnt  the  new  1.200-tou  contract  will  be 
signed.  This,  however,  is  a  matter  of  bookkeeping  within  the  du  Pont  Company 
and  you  may  proceed  on  the  basis  that  the  amount  involved  will  be  available 
in  cash  either  at  the  signing  of  the  contract  or  just  prior  to  the  date  that 
the  contract  is  scheduled  to  be  signed. 

5.  Under  separate  cover,  I  am  writing  you  concerning  new  prices  on  smokeless 
powder. 

Yours  very  truly, 

W.  H.  O'GoRMAN,  Asst.  Director. 
WHOG :  MHS 


Exhibit  No.  952 
[144,  Polish  Gov't] 

May  20,  1930. 
Sale  of  aircraft  finishes — Polish  Government — Stefan  Klawe. 
Parlin  Plant, 

Industrial  Finishes  Division,  Export  Department, 
(Attention  J.  H.  Frechen.) 

In  reply  to  your  letter  of  May  14th  and  confirming  our  telephone  conversa- 
tion on  the  above  subject,  we  are  glad  to  advise  that  Mr.  Klawe  has  been 
agent  for  the  ^Military  Sales  Division  in  Poland  for  the  past  six  years,  during 
which  time  he  was  successful  in  obtaining  for  us  orders  from  the  Polish 
Government  for  large  quantities  of  smokeless  powder.  Some  of  the  sales 
were  made  on  a  cash  basis,  others  on  credit  extending  over  a  year  and  a  half 
and  on  the  last  contract,  which  was  for  1,000  tons  of  powder,  ijayments  ex- 
tended over  a  three-year  period. 

For  your  confidential  information  the  total  sales  price  of  the  1,000  tons 
of  smokeless  powder  amoinited  to  $1,846,000.  Poland  agreed  to  pay  this  sum 
in  twelve  equal  instalments,  adding  to  each  instalment  a  premium  of  9%  and 
interest  at  the  rate  of  6%  annually.  The  Republic  of  Poland  gave  to  us 
twelve  treasury  notes,  note  no.  1  being  in  the  amount  of  approximately  $108,000 
and  note  no.  12  approximately  $204,000.  The  other  ten  notes  ranged  in  face 
value  between  these  figures. 

Mr.  Klawe's  commission  on  the  above-mentioned  contract  was  7%,  or  ap- 
proximately $126,000.  Upon  signing  of  the  contract,  even  before  we  i-eceived 
the  Polish  notes,  we  made  an  advance  payment  of  commission  to  Mr.  Klawe 
of  $30,000. 

The  Polish  Government  has  met  all  of  its  obligations  promptly  and  in  a 
very  satisfactory  manner.  We  would  have  no  hesitancy  in  extending  credit 
to  the  Polish  Government  and,  at  the  present  time,  we  are  negotiating  for  a 
larger  contract  than  the  (me  referred  to  above.  The  prospective  contract  will 
be  along  the  same  credit  lines  as  the  last. 

In  dealing  with  the  Polish  Government  you  are  rather  fortunate  to  have 
Mr.  Klawe  as  agent,  as  he  is  a  man  who  is  very  well  connecteil  and 
thoi-oughly  understands  what  must  be  done  in  order  to  secure  business.  He 
is  very  trustworthy  and  I  suggest  that  you  follow  his  advices  so  far  as  the 
obtaining  of  Polish  Government  business  is  concerned. 

In  regard  to  the  inspection  of  nitrocellulose  dopes,  the  order  would  probably 
be  too  small  to  justify  the  Polish  Government  sending  a  representative  to  this 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2599 

country  and  you  will  therefore  have  to  depend  upon  inspection  in  Warsaw  or, 
if  Klawe  can  arrange  it,  the  writer  feels  that  the  U.  S.  Army  would  be  glad 
to  function  as  inspector  for  the  Polish  War  Department.  This  is  a  matter 
which  would  have  to  be  taken  up  by  the  Polish  Lesation  in  Washington 
through  tile  State  Department  of  the  U.  S.  Government  but  the  request  would 
have  to  be  initiated  in  Warsaw. 

W.  n.  O'GoKMAN,  Asst.  Director. 
WHO'G  :MH 


("Exhibit  No.  D53  "  appears  in  text  on  p.  2497.) 


Exhibit  No.  954 

December  27,  1929. 
(Circulation  MANAGiai, 

Du  Pont  Magazine. 

Dr.  C.  Y.  Wang  is  a  chemical  engineer  in  charge  of  dyestuffs  demonstration 
in  our  Shanghai  office,  but  since  Dr.  Wang  is  al^o  engaged  in  military  sales 
work,  the  Du  Pont  Magazine  would  be  of  value  to  him.  as  he  is  in  constant 
touch  with  Government  officials. 

Col.  de  Fremery  is  a  Dutch  officer  working  under  contract  with  the  Chinese 
Government  as  an  advisor,  but  we  do  not  wish  the  title  "  technical  advisor  " 
to  appear  in  the  address.  The  other  men  mentioned  are  all  members  of  the 
so-called  "  technical  section  "  or  technical  committee  in  the  ordnance  department 
of  the  Chinese  Army,  and  it  is  essential  that  each  one  receive  a  copy  of  the 
magazine. 

In  the  future  we  shall  be  mindful  to  follow  your  suggestions  in  keeping  with 
the  policies  you  have  adopted,  it  being  our  desire  to  cooperate  with  you  as  much 
as  possible. 

W.    H.    O'GORMAN, 

NEB/h  Assistant  Director. 

The  above  as  per  last  three  paragraphs  of  letter  of  above  date  to  circulation 
manager. 

("Exhibit  No.  955"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2500.) 


Exhibit  No.  956 

[Copy] 

Original  noted  by  Major  Casey  and  returned  to  dyestuffs  department. 

(S)     J.  C.  G.* 
private  and   confidential, 

Wilmington,   Delaware, 

August  22,  1929. 
[No.  SW-PC-177,   August  2,    1!)2'J 
Kec'd  : M.S.:   Military  E^plo.sives] 

File  34— Chinese  Gov't. 
E.  I.  DU  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company, 
Dyestuffs  department,  sales  dinision. 

This  will  acknowledge  with  thanks  the  receipt  of  your  letters  WS-PC-103, 
105,  106,  and  121,  all  of  which  make  very  interesting  reading;  121  particularly 
is  important  inasmuch  as  it  gives  very  complete  information  on  the  respective 
qualities  of  powders  nos.  17,  17  special.  25.  and  25i/2-  It  came  at  a  most  op- 
portune moment  as  I  am  at  present  engaged  in  discussing  a  30-ton  powder 
contract  with  the  Shanghai  arsenal. 

Proving  ground :  The  matter  is  in  order  and  will  be  used  for  bargaining. 

Ballistic  tests :  No  comments  whatsoever  are  required :  we  now  have  the 
fullest  data  on  hand.     As  a   matter  of  interest,  we  might  mention   that  7.9 


Pencil   notation. 

8:i87G— 35— PT  11 14 


2600  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

m/m  pointed  "  S  "  bullets  weighing  10  grams  are  used  exclusively  by  the  Chinese 
Army  in  a  long-barrel  rifle  of  Mauser  type. 

Cannon  powder :  A  form  letter  was  received  from  Nanking  this  morning 
signed  by  an  official  of  the  ministry  of  war,  requesting  offers  on  cannon  powder 
on  the  following  characteristics : 

No.  1.  75  m/m  14  cal.  mountain  gun.  Muzzle  velocity,  280  meter  seconds. 
Maximum  pressure,  1,400  atmospheres.  Weight  of  powder  charge,  140  to  1.50 
grams.     Weight  of  projectile,  5.3  kilograms. 

No.  2.  75  m/m  14  cal.  field  gun.  Muzzle  velocity,  510  meter  seconds.  Maxi- 
mum pressure,  2,700  atmospheres.  Weight  of  powder  charge,  430  to  440  grams. 
Weight  of  projectile,  6  kilograms. 

You  cable  dated  July  29th,  advising  that  you  were  sending  cannon  powder 
together  with  the  rifle  powder,  came  in  very  handy  and  we  are  going  to  follow 
up  the  matter.  We  trust  that  full  information  covering  ballistic  tests  of  this 
powder  will  reach  here  by  an  early  mail.  I  regret  to  be  unable  to  give  you  any 
further  information  on  the  subject  as  the  mail  is  closing  this  afternoon.  Col. 
de  Fremery  is  back  and  I  shall  discuss  the  matter  with  him. 

Further  contracts:  I  have  been  nei;()tiatiug  for  the  last  few  days  for  a  30-ton 
Cfiutract  of  du  Pont  I.M.R.,  powder  no.  25  with  the  Shanghai  Arsenal.  I  have 
quoted  them  the  price  of  g'old  $2.30  c.i.f.  Shanghai,  shipment  east  coast.  If 
shipment  is  made  via  the  west  coast,  100  extra  per  kilo  will  be  charged. 
The  terms  are  similar  to  the  first  contract,  copy  of  wliich  is  now  in  your  hands. 

In  order  to  increase  their  interest  in  the  matter,  I  have  suggested  that  it 
liii.^ht  be  of  mutual  advantage  to  make  a  50-ton  contract  now  that  they  know 
from  the  tests  of  the  Frankford  Arsenal  that  our  powder  is  satisfactory,  in 
which  case  I  would  quote  2.26  (or  2.36)  and  not  insist  on  a  higher  deposit 
witli  the  order.  The  matter  has  been  referred  to  Nanking  and  will  probably 
be  settled  next  week. 

The  German  advisers  have  remained  singularly  quiet  of  late,  ixjssibly  on  my 
hint  that  they  were  being  spied  upon  by  the  Chinese  authorities.  Anyway, 
from  further  information  I  have  been  able  to  obtain  through  Chinese  sources, 
all  three  of  them  are  going  to  be  transferred  to  various  places  in  the  interior, 
and  there  seems  to  be  a  very  good  chance  of  our  now  lieing  free  from  inter- 
ference. I  have  also  learned  that  the  chief  engineer  of  the  arsenal,  whose 
name  is  on  the  contract  and  with  whom  I  have  been  negotiating,  is  considered 
to  be  absolutely  square.  Anyway,  presents  will  have  to  be  given  to  various 
parties  at  China  New  Year  and  tlie  over  price  we  get  can  be  used  for  this 
purpose.  Incidentally,  we  are  spending  a  fortune  on  cable  charges  and  I  think 
that  it  is  only  right  to  charge  all  the  traffic  can  bear.  Later  on  if  we  discuss 
a  500-ton  contract  or  so  we  can  bring  down  our  price  to  your  figure  of  2.18. 

We  are  accumulating  a  considerable  amount  of  information,  partly  through 
Colonel  de  Fremery,  partly  through  Chinese  sources,  and  C.  Y.  Wang  is  giving 
me  most  excellent  service  in  this  connection.  The  new  Nationalist  Government 
is  more  or  less  controlled  by  returned  students,  and  C.  Y.  is  certain  to  find 
either  former  classmates  or  friends  or  relations  of  classmates  of  his  wherever 
we  go. 

Eight-ton  contract :  Enclosed  herewith  please  find  translation  of  your  cable 
dated  July  30th.  Considering  that  the  cabled  advice  to  the  arsenal  was  sent 
by  your  good  selves  and  not  by  the  Frankford  Arsenal  officials,  and  that  we 
are  negotiating  a  new  contract,  I  found  it  more  diplomatic  not  to  ask  our 
friends  for  the  second  quarter  of  our  first  contract.  I  shall  do  so  when  the 
original  documents  signed  by  the  Frankford  Arsenal  come  on  hand.  This 
means  a  month's  loss  of  interest,  but  I  tliink  that  just  at  present  it  is  much 
safer  to  act  as  I  have  done  as  the  Chinese  offirials  may  very  rightly  point  out 
that  the  information  is  coming  from  us. 

There  is  no  time  to  giv^^^  you  any  further  information  as  the  mail  is  closing. 
As  soon  as  anything  develops  I  shall  let  you  know  by  cable. 

Shanghai  Dyestufps  OmoE, 

(S)        F.     A.     M.     NOELTING, 

Director  of  sales  for  C'hUia. 


MTJNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2601 

Exhibit  No.  957 

[File:  MS-IOO-C] 

Wilmington,  Dei^awarei, 

December  11,  1921. 
Report  of  Trip  to :  Washington,  D.  C.  December  16tli. 

Called  at  the  Department  of  Commerce  regarding  their  letter  of  December 
9th  concerning  onr  negotiations  in  Argentine.  Saw  Mr.  P.  S.  Smith  and 
Mr.  J.  P.  Bushnell.  Mr.  Bushnell  is  a  former  employe  of  the  du  Pont  Export 
Company,  who  was  a  ti'aveling  salesman  in  Mexico  and  South  America  for 
the  Export  Company.  Mr.  P)nshnell  stated  that  he  knew  Mr.  Lissner  and 
therefore  was  interested  in  doing  all  he  could  for  us. 

Mr.  Smith  stated  that  the  information  did  not  come  through  the  representa- 
tive of  his  department  in  Buenos  Aires,  namely,  Mr.  Feely.  Mr.  Smith's 
letter  to  us  was  founded  on  a  confidential  report  sent  to  him  by  the  American 
Charge  d'Affaires  in  Buenos  Aires.  I  requested  Mr.  Smith  to  permit  me  to 
read  the  report  but  he  stated  that  the  department  was  not  permitted  to  show 
confidential  reports  received  from  the  various  embassies.  However,  I  told  him 
that  I  felt  there  would  bo  something  in  the  I'eport  which  would  be  of  material 
aid  to  us  in  straightening  out  this  matter,  and  he  finally  agreed  to  let  me 
read  it  if  I  would  consider  it  strictly  confidential  and  personal. 

From   my   memory   the   following  is   the  substance   of  the  report : 

October  27,  1921. 

The  du  Pont  Company  has  in  Buenos  Aires  a  German  Jew  named  A. 
Lissner,  who  is  negotiating  with  the  Argentine  Government  for  the  sale  of  a 
quantity  of  powder  which  the  du  Pont  Company  has  on  hand,  due  to  the  can- 
cellation of  a  contract  with  the  Italian  Government.  In  a  conversation  with 
the  Chief  of  Ordnance  he  told  me  confidentially  that  Lissner  was  endeavoring 
to  bribe  Argentine  officials  by  indiscriminately  distributing  funds  through  a 
middle  man.  The  Chief  of  Ordnance,  together  with  other  Argentine  officials, 
strongly  resents  Lissner's  business  methods,  contending  that  Lissner  came  to 
Argentine  with  the  idea  that  tlie  government  officials  were  corrupt  and  that 
he  could  f>nly  obtain  a  contract  by  paying  bribes.  Argentine  does  not  like 
to  do  business  with  this  type  of  a  representative  and  therefore  the  Chief  of 
Ordnance  stated  that  the  du  Pont  Company  would  not  get  the  contract. 

The  vice  president  of  the  Baldwin  Locomotive  Co.  came  here  last  year  and 
made  a  vei-y  good  impression  on  the  Argentine  Cabinet,  together  with  all 
Argentine  officials.  He  succeeded  in  putting  through  a  $14,000,000  contract 
for  the  supplying  of  locomotives,  etc.,  and  not  one  penny  of  graft  was  paid  to 
anyone.  American  manufacturers  would  do  well  when  negotiating  \Aith 
Argentine  to  do  so  through  an  officer  of  their  company  or  through  some  very 
high  official.  A  vice  president  of  an  American  corporation  carries  much  more 
prestige  with  Argentine  officials  than  does  an  ordinary  representative.  A  vice 
president  is  generally  a  higher  type  of  man,  whose  Inisiness  methods  are  on 
a  much  higher  plane  and  the  Argentine  Government  feels  complimented  when 
an  American  corporation  sends  a  higli  official  to  conduct  negotiations  with 
them. 

While  I  do  not  personally  know  Mr.  Lissner,  it  is  rumored  that  he  is  fre- 
quently drunk  and  does  not  represent  the  true  type  of  American  busin.ess  man. 
This  last  statement  is  given  to  you  with  reser\ation  in  that  the  writer  has 
no  proof  of  it  being  true. 

(signed)     Francis  White." 

Both  Mr.  Smith  and  Mr.  Bushnell  felt  that  a  great  deal  of  the  above  report 
could  be  discounted,  stating  that  Mr.  White  was  a  very  high  typ<^>  of  man, 
conscientious  and  painstaking.  The  moral  conclusion  which  Mr.  White  at- 
tempted to  draw  attention  to  in  his  report,  of  course,  is  a  high  thought,  but 
Mr.  Smith  stated  that  he  spent  eight  months  last  year  in  Buenos  Aires  and 
knew  for  a  fact  that  the  officials  were  corrupt  and  endeavored  to  obtain  graft 
whenever  possible.  He  ventured  to  say  that  it  was  quite  possible  that  the 
Chief  of  Ordnance  was  incensed  because  Lissner  had  not  conducted  the  busi- 
ness flirectly  through  him,  and  furfher,  that  it  might  be  likely  that  he  objected 
to  Lissner's  methods  because  he  was  not  getting  part  of  the  graft. 

Mr.  Smith  agreed  to  cnble  his  representative,  Mr.  Feely,  at  once  and  instruct 
him  to  get  in  touch  with  Mr.  Henuiug  and  to  conduct  in  conjunction  with 
Mr.  Henning  a  thorough  investigation  of  the  case.     I  agreed  to  pay  the  cost 


2602  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

of  a  cablegram  and  Mr.  Smith  will  send  us  an  English  translation  of  the  cable 
he  sends  to  Mr.  Feely. 

Mr.  Smith  stated  that  as  far  as  the  Department  of  Commerce  was  concerned, 
they  merely  felt  it  was  their  duty  to  report  to  us  the  fact  that  our  representa- 
tive had  not  been  discreet  in  conducting  negotiations.  He  stated  that  they  knew 
perfectly  well  that  the  du  Pont  Company  would  not  permit  a  representative 
to  negotiate  along  the  lines  described  by  the  Charge  d'AftViires,  and  wliether 
his  report  be  true  or  not,  it  was  Mr.  Smith's  belief  that  Mr.  Lissner  must 
have  been  very  indiscreet. 


W.    H.    O'GORMAN. 


WHO'G/h. 


Exhibit  No.  958 
[File:  MS-67] 

Memorandum  for  A.  Felix  du  Pont. 

March  23,  1922. 

Mr.  Joseph  McCarthy,  a  personal  friend  of  mine,  has  been  in  business  in 
Buenos  Aires  for  the  last  eight  or  nine  years.  At  the  present  time  he  is 
South  American  manager  of  the  Singer  Sewing  Machine  Company.  A  busi- 
ness associate  of  Mr.  McCarthy,  Mr.  Thomas  D.  Valentine,  is  on  a  visit  to  the 
States,  and  at  present  is  living  in  New  York  City.  Mr.  McCarthy  requested 
Mr.  Valentine  to  call  on  me  and  inquire  as  to  whether  the  Du  Pont  Company 
contemplated  building  a  power  factory  in  Argentina. 

I  had  the  pleasure  of  talking  with  Mr.  Valentine  on  March  20th  while  in 
New  York,  and  I  feel  it  my  duty  to  pass  along  to  you  certain  information  and 
remarks  regarding  Mr.  Lissner's  performances  and  negotiations  in  Argentina. 
I  might  add  that  Mr.  Valentine  knows  Mr.  Lissner  very  well,  having  become 
acquainted  with  him  upon  Mr.  Lissner's  first  trip  to  Buenos  Aires.  While  some 
of  Mr.  Valentine's  information  and  remarks  are  not  new,  I  feel  that  since  he 
is  in  no  way  interested  or  connected  with  this  company,  they  are  worth 
repeating  to  you.  The  story  as  told  to  me  by  Mr.  Valentine  can  be  summarized 
as  follows : 

During  Mr.  Lissner's  first  trip  to  Argentina  in  1920,  Mr.  Valentine  became 
acquainted  with  Mr.  Lissner  by  meeting  him  at  the  American  Club.  Mr.  Liss- 
ner openly  announced  that  he  was  down  there  to  sell  Argentina  a  quantity  of 
Italian  powder  which  he  personally  repurchased  from  the  Italian  Government 
at  1^  a  pound  and  which  we  intended  to  resell  to  the  Argentine  Government 
at  a  price  of  70f  per  i)ound.  This  fact  was  made  public  by  people  who  heard 
it ;  and  naturally,  before  very  long  the  officials  of  the  Government  knew  the 
exact  cost  of  this  repurchased  powder  and  fought  shy  of  buying  it.  In  Mr. 
Valentine's  opinion,  this  is  the  real  reason  why  the  Argentine  Government  did 
not  contract  with  us  for  a  quantity  of  Italian-purchased  powder. 

Secondly,  Mr.  Lissner  at  no  time  made  any  secret  of  his  negotiations  and 
often  told  the  complete  story  while  drinking  with  a  party  of  friends  at  the 
various  bars  in  Argentina.  These  friends  consisted  of  the  hangers-on  around 
hotels  and  barrooms  and  were  men  of  the  type  who  had  no  social  or  business 
standing  and  were  nothing  more  tlian  news-gatherers,  who  did  at  the  first 
opportunity  repeat  the  entire  stoi-y  to  people  who  could  do  the  cause  most  harm. 
It  therefore  was  not  very  long  before  the  American  business  men,  the  American 
Chamber  of  Commerce,  and  the  representative  of  the  American  Department  of 
Commerce  looked  upon  Lissner  as  the  wrong  type  of  individual  to  rejiresent 
an  American  concern  such  as  the  Du  Pont  Company.  The  American  element, 
therefore,  regretted  that  this  company  sent  such  a  type  as  Lissner  to  Argentina. 
Mr.  Valentine  said  that  it  was  absolutely  necessary  to  pay  for  any  favors 
received  at  the  hands  of  the  Government  and  that  graft  was  one  of  the  essen- 
tials in  the  Government  departments,  but  that  Lissner  res(n-ted  to  open  bribery 
methods  to  such  an  extent  that  the  officials  in  the  Government  were  afraid  to 
deal  with  him  and  considered  him  irresponsible. 

Mr.  Valentine,  in  order  to  let  me  know  that  Lissner  was  prone  to  tell  any 
and  all  phases  of  his  business,  recited  the  story  as  to  Lissner's  exiiense  accounts 
on  his  first  trip,  and  how  the  president  of  the  firm  authorized  him  to  be  paid 
$5,400  in  excess  of  his  fund,  although  the  hea<l  of  the  department,  a  man 
named  Casey,  refused  to  reimburse  Lissner. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2603 

I  might  continue  and  add  a  great  many  details  to  this  summary,  but  I  do 
not  deem  it  advisable  or  necessary.  I  am  passing  this  on  to  you  not  as  a 
slam  against  Lissner  but  as  a  veriflration  of  the  details  you  already  have 
concerning  Llssner's  actions,  and  further  as  an  additional  justification  for  your 
recent  action  concerning  him.  Personally  I  could  never  understand  why 
Lissner  did  not  succeed  in  selling  at  least  some  of  the  purchased  powder,  Init 
the  explanation  as  set  forth  above  seems  to  be  a  feasible  reason  as  to  his  lack 
of  success  in  this  respect. 

I  desire  it  to  be  strictly  understood  that  I  did  not  invite  Mr.  Valentine  to 
comment  on  Lissner  and  that  same  was  done  voluntarily  by  Mr.  Valentine 
during  my  conversation  with  him.  I  consider  Mr.  Valentine's  comments  to  be 
the  public  opinion  in  Argentina  regarding  Mr.  Lissner;  and  further,  I  sized 
him  up  to  be  a  man  who  know  what  he  was  talking  about  and  one  who  had 
no  axe  to  grind,  and  therefore  I  feel  that  the  information  is  worth  repeating. 

Mr.  Valentine  will  probably  call  on  me  in  Wilmington  at  some  future  date; 
and  if  you  are  desirous  of  talking  with  him  I  shall  be  very  glad  to  present 
him  to  you. 

W.    H.    OGORMAN. 

WHO'G/N 

( ••  ExHiiUT  No.  959  "  appears  in  text  on  p.  2485. ) 


Exhibit  No.  960 

Heedles  &  Bbeidsprbcher, 

Mexico,  D.  F. 
Date:  September  1st,  1930. 
To:  Remington  Arms  Co.,  Inc. 
Subject:  Guadalajara. 

Although  we  know  that  Mr.  Jonas,  of  Winchester,  returned  to  U.  S.  A. 
last  week  without  going  to  Guadalajara,  the  writer  made  a  trip  to  Guada- 
lajara last  week  in  order  to  investigate  whether  Winchester  made  any  special 
offers  there,  specially  to  the  Club  Cinigetico  which  favored  us  with  an  important 
order  last  year. 

AVe  are  pleased  to  advise  you  that  Winchester  has  not  received  any  impor- 
tant business  from  this  section  of  the  country  lately ;  in  fact,  the  Club  Cinigetico 
has  not  ordered  anything  up  to  the  present  and  should  the  club  need  an  addi- 
tional supply  of  shot  shells,  etc..  you  can  be  confident  that  we  shall  get  the 
order.  The  club  has  been  well  satisfied  with  what  you  shipped  the  early 
part  of  this  year,  but  conditions  are  bad  and  the  members  of  the  club  are 
holding  back  witji  money  and  besides  there  is  still  a  lot  of  shot  shells,  etc., 
left  from  your  shipment  whicli  will  be  distributed  among  the  members  of  the 
club  as  soon  as  the  shooting  season  starts. 

With  reference  to  the  metallic  business  we  found  a  very  peculiar  situation 
in  Guadalajara.  Tlie  writer  saw  more  contrabands  in  this  section  of  the 
country  than  anywhere  else ;  there  is  a  fellow  with  name  of  Godinez  installed 
right  in  the  market  place ;  he  has  no  permit  to  sell  nor  has  he  permit  to  import, 
and  yet  lie  must  have  at  least  IDU.OOO  metallics  in  stock.  ]\Iost  of  it  is  western 
ammunition  which  lie  gets  from  Negates  as  contrabands  and  the  balance  is  from 
Arms  &  Metal  who  sell  this  man  metallics  at  less  than  the  cost  laid  down 
Guadalajara  would  be  by  regular  importation.  Arms  &  Metal  is  doing  this  to 
compete  with  prices  cpioted  to  this  man  by  Quintana,  and  it  will  not  take  long 
until  Quintana  will  make  use  of  tlieir  confidential  discount  and  will  try  to 
underbid  Arms  &  Metal,  etc.  Uoberto  A.  Gonzales  of  this  city  offered  cal. 
25  auto,  at  Mex.  $70.00  a  hundred  to  this  man,  and  laid  down  costs  of  this 
cartridge  is  $92.30  Mex.  a  hundred  and  you  realize  that  this  also  must  be 
■contrabands  metallica.  (K  course,  the  regular  trade  in  Guadalajara  is  suffer- 
ing under  this  unnormal  situa.tion  and  within  time  they  trade  will  be  forced 
to  buy  contraband  or  give  up  the  sale  of  metallico  cartridges. 

A  similar  situation  seems  to  arise  in  Mexico  City.  Roberto  A.  Gonzalez  seems 
to  buy  contraband  metallics  exclusively  and  told  the  writer  yesterday  that  he 
would  have  printed  a  new  price  list  underbidding  all  prices  quoted  by  Quin- 
tana at  about  $3.U0  Mex.  a  hundred. 

Mr.  Heedles  undoubtedl.x  told  you  that  we  are  making  every  effort  to  have 
the  Government  realize  this  situation  and  reduce  the  duty,  but  it  seems  very 
doubtful  whether  our  efforts  in  this  direction  will  have  any  success ;  the  writer 


2604  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

is  afraid  within  a  short  time  this  contraband  affair  will  become  a  very  serious 
handicap  in  the  regular  sale  of  our  metallics.  Guadalajara  seems  to  be  a  very- 
good  example  of  what  is  going  to  happen.  Godinez  maintains  that  he  yet  has 
not  been  able  to  buy  any  Kleanbore  cartridges  in  Nogales.  He  said  to  the- 
writer  that  in  Nogales  he  can  buy  western  ammunition  only  and  if  lie  would 
not  look  to  the  writer  as  a  very  dangerous  person,  perhaps  it  would  be  ad- 
visable to  do  some  business  with  him,  but  under  present  circumstances  it 
looks  better  to  keep  away  from  him. 

Luis  Ramirez  Zcnteno. — Attached  find  order  #264  for  this  account  which 
should  be  shipped  together  with  the  clients'  pending  orders.  We  beg  to  advise 
that  we  have  applied  for  a  special  permit  to  cover  this  importation  and  hoi)e 
that  same  will  reach  you  yet  in  time  to  make  a  combined  shipment,  if  this 
is  not  possible,  please  ship  the  pending  orders  right  away  and  let  us  know  when 
this  order  is  ready  for  shipment,  later  on  the  client  perhaps  allows  us  to  add 
some  shot  shells  in  order  to  make  a  full  shipment.^ 

Vda  de  Celio  Ramirez  kiucr.  Tcstamcntaria  Marizano  Ramirez  Jimenez, 
Callc  Eje  Poniente  #352,  Guadalajara,  Jul. — This  is  a  new  account  and  we  beg 
to  enclose  order  #267  of  this  client,  which  kindly  ship  as  soon  us  the  cor- 
responding permit  reaches  you.  We  have  applied  for  the  permit  and  same  will 
cover  everything  specified  in  the  order.  You  will  remember  that  some  time  agO' 
you  received  an  inquiry  from  this  account  calling  for  100,000  metallics,  well,  on 
account  of  the  contrabando  and  low  prices  bidding  of  Quintana  and  Arms  & 
Metal,  he  only  can  import  the  calibre  shown  on  the  order,  too  bad  indeed. 
This  is  a  responsible  firm  and  the  writer  obtained  very  satisfactory  references 
and  in  order  to  make  our  offer  attractive  to  the  client,  we  allowed  for  half 
of  the  amount  of  your  invoice  60  days'  sight  and  for  the  balance  90  days'  sight 
net.  The  question  arises  whether  we  should  sell  metallics  direct  to  such  a 
client  who  is  also  client  of  Quintana.  The  writer  believes  that  we  should  sell 
him  direct  since  this  is  an  established  firm  and  would  buy  from  Arms  & 
Metal  or  contraband  if  we  would  not  try  to  sell  him  direct,  and  then  of  course, 
he  would  not  sell  Kleanbore  ammunition.  Besides  he  has  ordered  rifles  from 
us  and  look  up  the  few  rifles  v.hich  Quintana  have  bought  from  us.  We  trust 
that  you  will  at  once  write  to  this  account  and  acknowledge  receipt  of  their 
order  and  advise  them  that  shipment  would  be  made  at  the  terms  specified  as 
soon  as  the  permit  has  reached  you." 

Salvador  Sanchez,  of  the  firm  Sanchez  \i  Rosalcs.  Caile  12,  #  -}79,  Gnadnlajara, 
Jal. — This  is  also  a  new  account  and  you  will  remember  that  some  time  ago 
you  received  an  inquiry  from  this  man.  The  writer  hesitated  first  to  sell  him 
direct  in  view  of  tlie  fact  that  this  man  has  not  yet  established  a  stove  in  town 
and  according  to  his  advice  is  going  to  establish  an  arm  and  ammunition  store 
shortly.' 

However,  the  writer  saw  an  order  for  metallics  and  rifles  which  was  taken 
by  Winchester  and  also  an  order  for  Colt  revolvers.  Mr.  Sanchez  also  showed 
the  writer  the  corresponding  permits  and  in  view  of  the  fadt  that  he  offered 
to  pay  half  cash  with  order  ;ind  balance  against  sight  draft  with  his  first  order, 
we  of  course,  at  once  accepted  and  made  up  attached  order  #266.  We  have 
applied  for  the  permit  covering  all  items  specified  on  this  order  and  as  soon 
as  same  has  been  received,  we  shall  communicate  with  you.  Mr.  Sanchez  will 
send  you  check  covering  about  half  of  the  amount  of  the  order  as  soon  as  the 
permit  has  been  recei^■ed  and  we  suggest  that  you  figure  at  once  the  exact  cost 
of  this  order  in  order  to  enable  us  to  ask  him  for  the  exact  amount  as  soon  as 
the  permit  has  been  received.*  Ink  Note. — Acknowledge  receipt  of  this  order 
direct  to  client. 

Selorzano  Hermanes. — The  writer  also  took  an  order  for  metallics  from  this 

account  but  same  is  being  revised  by  the  client  at  present  and  will  be  sent  to 

you  at  a  later  date. 

War  Department. — Since  the  writer  returned   from   Guadalajara,   the   War 

Department  finally  issued  new  permit  instructions  which  are  as  follows : 
1.  A  new  general  permit  will  be  issued  to  all  clients  which  had  such  a  permit 

up  to  the  present.     This  permit  will  be  valid  until  December  31st,  1930,  and  will 

again  cover  all  calibers  of  shot  shells,  escopetus,  cai.  22  cartridges  and  cat.  22' 

rifles. 


^  This  paragraph  is  in  a  circle   (P.  note).     Ilalsey. 
'  Ink  note. — Suggest  j'ou  also  got  credit  information. 
^  Note. — This  paragraph  is  in  a  circle. 
*  Also  this  paragraph. 


MUNITIONS    INDtrSTRY  2605 

2.  A  special  permit  must  be  applied  in  eacli  case  of  importation  of  metallic 
cartridges,  pistols,  etc.  In  other  words,  this  special  permit  affair  stays  as  it  is 
right  now. 

3.  Our  clients  will  be  allowed  to  sell  and  ship  within  the  country  5  pistols 
and  1,000  metallics  without  a  special  permit  (at  a  time)  ;  sales  of  larger  quan- 
tities of  pistols  and  ammunition  are  subject  to  a  special  permit  of  the  War 
Department.  Our  clients  can  freely  sell  escopetas,  rifles  cal.  22  and  cal.  22 
and  shot  shell  ammunition  as  before. 

4.  In  the  future  under  no  circumstances  permits  will  be  issued  covering  sales 
or  importations  of  rifles  and  ammunition  and  pistols  which  develop  a  higher 
velocity  of  500  meters  per  second.  Such  a  permit  can  only  be  issued  by  the 
President  of  Republic. 

At  a  cost  of  Mex.  $80.00  we  are  having  all  these  new  permits  printed  as  cour- 
tesy for  the  War  Department ;  we  further  have  applied  for  all  our  clients  for 
these  new  permits,  but  you  will  appreciate  that  it  will  take  considerable  time 
until  all  these  permits  have  been  communicated  to  the  foreign  oflBce  and  hence 
to  the  consul,  therefore  we  have  applied  for  special  permits  covering  pending 
order  in  the  meantime  so  that  shipment  of  these  pending  orders  will  not  be 
delayed. 

The  general  in  charge  of  the  War  Department,  Artillery  Dep.,  has,  however, 
not  signed  for  the  past  three  weeks  and  this  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  we  have 
contributed  with  $200.00  oro  nacional  to  make  the  general's  life  more  pleasant 
and  reform  the  new  law  on  ammunition  and  arms,  so  with  all  contrabando,  price 
under  bidding  of  Arms  &  Metal  and  Quintane,  permit  affairs,  etc.,  etc.,  you 
will  appreciate  what  joy  it  is  to  work  for  Remington  Arms  Company,  Inc.° 

Tour  credit  notes  or  better,  said  cash  to  cover  $280.00  pesos  Mex.,  will  be 
appreciated. 

Yours  very  truly, 

(Signed)     M.  M.  Veuicier, 

Heedles  &  Breidsprecher. 

Ink  Note. — I  forgot  to  mention  that  $200.00  which  we  kept  at  the  office  ready 
for  War  Dept.  expenses,  were  stolen  the  other  day,  so  you  better  make  the 
check  $480.00  or  U.  S.  G.  $240.00.     Breid. 


Exhibit  No.  961 

"A '  MX 

[(Stamped)   Answered  Mar.  16,  1931,  G.  Rugge] 

Heedles  &  Breidsprecher, 
Mexico,  D.  F.,   (Date)   March  J  1th,  1931. 
To  Mr.  Geo.  Rugge, 

Remington  Arms  Co.,  Inc. 

Subject : 

Dear  Geo.  :  Your  letter  of  the  7th  relative  to  orders  from  Sr.  Guillermo 
Clements  #314,  A,  #314B,  and  #315  has  been  received  and  we  cK>uflrm  our 
cable  reply,  advising  you  to  ship  this  client  in  accordance  with  the  regular 
terms,  that  is,  three  drafts,  one-third  sight,  one-third  thirty  days,  and  balance 
60  days,  with  instructions  to  allow  a  discount  of  2%.  providing  the  full  amount 
is  paid  upon  presentation  of  drafts.     Attach  the  documents  to  the  draft. 

It  is  rather  difficult  to  inform  you  as  to  the  future  because  we  really  are 
upside  down  and  nobody  knows  what  next  they  are  going  to  tliink  of  over  at 
the  War  Department  to  disturb  matters  and  make  things  more  difficult  for  us. 
I  certainly  hope  we  do  not  have  to  go  thru  another  month  like  the  past  one,  as 
it  was  the  worst  we  have  had  in  six  years,  and  that  after  taking  into  consid- 
erations revolutions,  etc.,  we  paid  thru  the  nose  last  month  all  right. 

For  the  past  ten  days  I  have  been  giving  considerable  attention  daily  to  the 
War  Department  better  said,  the  person  responsible  for  all  of  our  grief,  but 
he  certainly  is  a  tough  egg  and  knows  where  he  is.  We  had  a  friend  over 
there  at  the  Department  that  represented  quite  an  investment  for  us,  and  he 
was  supposed  to  stay  on  and  the  trouble  maker  go  out  at  the  end  of  last  month, 
and  the  result  was  that  the  trouble  maker  held  on  and  he  went  out. 


^  Ink  Note. — Winchester  underbidding. 


2606  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

He  was  asking  for  1^  Mexican  Cy.,  per  cartridge  and  you  can  appreciate 
what  tliat  means,  for  revolvers  lie  asked  for  $2.00  each,  I  have  heen  taking 
him  out  and  endeavoring  to  demonstrate  where  he  was  wrong  and  why  and 
although  it  has  taken  a  while  I  may  be  able  to  get  somewhere  with  him  this 
week.  Some  of  the  excuses  he  has  given  for  turning  down  applications  are 
really  foolish  but  he  is  the  boss  and  can  make  trouble  for  everybody.  The 
clients  are  writing  and  telegraphing  and  we  are  making  out  applications,  visits, 
etc.,  l)ut  to  no  avail  as  $1,000  per  100,0(X>  is  a  great  deal  of  money  and  more 
to  today. 

"Winchester  have  been  after  me  to  take  up  the  matter  jointly  with  theui  l)ut 
I  tliink  it  best  to  handle  the  situation  between  the  clients  and  oui-selves,  as  it 
is  only  when  they  cannot  do  something  themselves  that  they  call  on  us.  I 
might  add  they  are  up  to  their  old  tricks  of  offering  terms  and  contidentials, 
with  permits  being  turned  down  they  cannot  do  much  but  we  know  two  clients 
they  have  already  approached.  There  may  be  something  more  pleasant  to  re- 
port in  a  couple  of  days  as  I  have  been  with  the  fellow  responsible  for  our 
trouble  almost  daily  morning  and  evening  and  this  morning  was  the  first  time 
I  saw  an  opportunity  to  accomplish  something  but  we  shall  not  know  definitely 
until  the  end  of  the  week. 

Between  exchange  and  conditions  we  are  bad  off  down  tliis  and  wliile  we 
are  not  paying  attention  to  anything  but  just  continuing  our  traveling  and 
everything  else,  just  as  though  things  were  fine  and  dandy,  orders  are  few  and 
far  between  with  everybody  apparently  firing  help  and  cutting  down  expenses. 

Kind  regards  to  everybody. 
Yours  respectfully, 

(Signed)     .Tosb:ph  A.  Hkedles. 


Exhibit  No.  962 

[(Stamped)    Answered  Mar.   24,   1931.     G.  Paigge] 

Heedles  &  Bheidspkecheu, 
Mexico,  D.  F.,  (Date)  March  21st,  1931. 
To  Remington  Arms  Company,  Inc. 
Subject : 

Quintana  has  secured  a  permit  for  170,000  metallics  for  Winchester.  This  has 
happened  as  follows :  They  made  a  contract  with  Winchester  last  year  for 
450,000  to  secure  a  discount  of  10%  ;  they  did  this  with  Jonas.  From  this  amount 
was  left  the  above  balance  and  they  have  succeeded  in  liaving  Wincliester 
continue  to  allow  them  the  10%  and  ship  the  above  amount,  that  is,  170,000, 
at  present  prices,  with  of  course,  the  10%  confidential'^  they  allow  tliem. 

In  view  of  the  the  fact  that  the  writer  put  over  the  de;il  whereby  we  could 
continue  to  secure  permits,  or  better  said,  do  business,  Majuregui  asked  whether 
we  would  ratlier  have  him  hold  off  placing  or  soliciting  the  Winchester  permit, 
but,  as  you  can  appreciate,  he  asked  this  with  the  object  of  preventing  us  from 
permitting  the  rest  of  our  clients  taking  advantage  of  the  ari'angemcnt  and  I 
told  him  we  had  no  objections  to  his  soliciting  the  permit  as  well  as  placing 
the  order,  so  tliat  we  could  cnutinue  solicit  orders  from  the  rest  of  our  friends, 
besides  he  will  not  need  the  Winchester  goods  in  a  hurry  with  our  pending  order. 

Gonzalez  also  secured  a  permit  for  100,000,  but  this  was  a  slip-up  on  our 
friend  in  the  department,  we  both  had  an  application  in ;  that  is,  Winchester  as 
web  as  ourselves  and  he  permitted  both  to  be  issued  at  the  same  time,  but  I 
think  Gonzalez  also  will  delay  his  order." 

The  cut  in  duties  has  l)een  put  off  once  more,  but  I  think  we  can  get  out  the 
department  recommendation  for  a  cut  by  the  end  of  the  month  and  then  all 
we  have  to  contend  with  will  be  the  Sec.  of  Treasury,  but  the  department 
reconunendation  as  we  shall  see  that  it  is  made,  should  bring  about  sufficient 
pressure  to  secure  a  reduction  in  duties. 

We  are  consulted  for  most  of  tlie  "  acuerdos  ",  that  is,  to  whom  permits  can 
be  granted,  dehiyed,  canceled,  refused  etc.,  and  we  hope  it  lasts  for  a  while  longer, 
because  in  about  six  months  time  nothing  but  Kleanbore  would  be  allowed. 
Yours  respectfully, 

(Signed)     Heedles  ^:  I>KHnDsi>i;ECHEi:. 


1  Note. — Underscored  in  pencil. 
*  Pencil  note. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2607 

Exhibit  No.  963 

"A"  MX 
[(Stamped)    Answered  Apr.  20,  1931,   G.   Rugge] 

HeHDLBS  &  BREaOSPRECHER, 

Date  :  El  Paso,  Texas,  March  16,  1931.  Mexico,  D.  F. 

To:  Remington  Arms  Co.,  Inc. 

Subject:  Mexico  Hardware  Co.,  P]l  Paso,  Texas,  Ciudad  Juarez,  Chih. 

Dear  Mr.  Rugge:  I  called  this  morning  on  Mr.  S.  R.  Silva,  manager  of  the 
above-mentioned  company  and  had  a  long  talk  witli  him  on  the  arms  and  am- 
munition business  into  Mexico.  He  showed  me  an  invoice  covering  a  sliipment 
of  metallics  which  you  made  to  this  firm  recently  and  also  told  me  that  he 
would  send  you  a  large  order  soon.  Before  I  left  Mexico  City  about  three 
weeks  ago,  Enrique  Gutierrez  M.  of  Mexico  City  placed  an  order  with  this 
company  for  cal.  22  cartridges  which  this  company  offered  to  Gutierrez  at 
lower  prices  c.i.f.  Mexico  City  than  they  cost  Gutierrez  c.i.f.  Vera  Cruz,  includ- 
ing duty.  The  rensnn  for  this  is  that  this  company  is  getting  a  large  quantity  of 
metallics  over  the  border  without  paying  duty.  Mr.  Silva  has  a  combination 
with  a  number  of  custom  house  officials  in  Ciudad  Juarez. 

However,  in  order  to  import  large  quantities  of  metallics,  which  is  the  inten- 
tion of  Mr.  Silva.  he  is  going  to  send  to  our  office  several  applications  for  special 
permits  which  will  cover  a  greater  quantity  of  metallics  than  specified  later 
on  the  permits,  the  permits  simply  cover  up  the  whole  affair  and  if  he  gets  in 
trouble  he  can  make  reference  to  these  permits.  As  soon  as  I  get  to  Mexico 
City  I  shall  see  that  the  War  Department  will  grant  these  permits  and  as  soon 
as  we  have  secured  same  you  can  exjiect  quite  large  orders  from  this  client. 

Mr.  Silva  told  me  that  your  Mr.  Heath.  I  believe  this  is  the  name  of  the 
gentleman,  recently  called  on  him  and  the  company  is  now  selling  Remington 
arms  and  ammunition  exclusively. 

You  are  undoubtedly  aware  of  the  fact  that  all  of  the  arms  and  ammunition 
which  you  ship  to  this  client  is  for  sale  into  Mexico,  he  does  not  do  any 
domestic  business  in  this  line,  in  fact  he  handles  this  business  thru  his  Ciudad 
Juarez  branch. 

I  believe  we  never  received  any  commission  on  the  sales  which  you  make  to 
this  company  although  all  of  these  sales  cover  goods  for  sale  into  Mexico  and 
for  that  reason  you  sell  this  account  at  export  prices  and  shij*  from  your 
export  department  and  not  domestic  department  and  I  would  appreciate  if 
you  kindly  would  look  up  this  matter  and  see  that  the  commission  whi'h  will 
be  due  to  us  will  be  taken  care  of. 

As  mentioned  above  I  promised  to  Mr.  Silva  to  take  care  immediately  of 
his  permit  affair  at  the  War  Department  as  soon  as  I  return  and  I  hope  that 
once  the  permit  question  arranged,  his  orders  will  increase  considerably.  Please 
keep  the  information  given  above  as  to  the  contraband  business  this  company 
is  doing  strictly  confidential  and  do  not  mention  anything  of  this  in  letters 
you  send  to  our  Mexico  City  office. 

The  reason  I  write  you  about  this  is  that  I  am  in  El  Paso  today  and  not 
in  Mexican  territory. 

Awaiting  your  comments  and  with  the  writer's  personal  regards  also  to  friend 
Monaghan,  we  are, 

Respectfully  yours, 

(Signed)     MM.  Vezuinni, 

Heedles  &  Breidsprbohek. 
cc  Mexico  City  office. 

[(Stamped)     Received  Mar.  20,  1931,  E^xport  Department.] 


Exhibit  No.  964 

["A-   «U] 

Ju.AN  Van  de  Putte  &  Co..  Sues.  Almacen  "El  Cazador  ", 

Guatemala,  C.  A..  November  13.  1929. 
(Dirrecion   Cablegrafica :  Cazador-Guatemala,    Guatemala.) 
Remington  Arms  Co.  Inc., 

29  Warren  Street,  New  York  City. 
(Attention  of  Mr.  Geo.  Rugge.) 
Gentlemen  :  I  wish  to  confirm  the  cable  I  sent  you  today,  which  reads  as 
follows;  "Hold    million    order.      Await    instructions",    and    now    I    wish    to 


2608  .  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

acknowledge  receipt  of  your  wire  reading  thus  :  "  Entire  shipment  in  New  York. 
Will  hold.     Hope  no  trouble.     Regards,     liugge." 

I  regret  very  much  that  I  was  forced  to  send  you  the  above-referred-to  wire, 
but  circumstances  obliged  me  to.  I  am  going  to  explain  to  you  fully  my 
motive. 

When  I  booked  the  order  for  the  million  rounds,  and  I  sent  you  the  cable 
advising  you,  the  order  had  been  approved  by  the  Minister  of  War,  the  Detol 
General  de  Rentas,  and  it  only  had  to  be  signed  by  the  Minister  of  Finance, 
who  gave  instructions  to  the  Subsecretary  to  do  so,  on  account  of  his  being 
ill  in  bed.  This  Subsecretary  held  the  signing  of  same  and  tiually  did  not 
sign.  He  is  a  very  close  friend  of  Salvador  Koenigsberger,  agent  for  Western, 
and  showed  Salvador  Koenigsberger  the  contract  for  the  paltry  sum  of  $100.00 
and  at  the  same  time  made  a  lot  of  noise,  recommending  that  the  order  was 
not  legal  because  it  was  not  submitted  to  public  bidding,  and  at  the  same  time 
attached  to  Van  de  Putte's  contract  an  offer  from  Western's  agent  for  the 
same  quantities  but  for  the  amount  of  $15,066.00,  Van  de  Putte's  contract  being 
for  $18,000.00.  The  difference  between  your  quotation  and  the  amount  appear- 
ing on  the  contract  was  to  be  divided  among  the  Minister  of  War,  etc.,  etc., 
and  Juan  Van  de  Putte  &  Co.  had  already  advanced  to  General  Juan  Padilla 
the  sum  of  $1,000.00  on  account  of  this  order  and  another  $4,000.00  for  an- 
other contract  effected  for  some  leather  kids  and  belts  for  the  National  Army. 
When  this  happened  the  Minister  of  War  sent  for  all  the  papers  and  docu- 
ments and  was  going  to  put  it  through  because  they  expected  a  clean-up  in  all 
departments,  and  naturally  the  order  remained  in  status  quo,  although  we  re- 
tained the  right-of-way,  the  Minister  of  War  being  "  morally  obligated." 

The  change  in  all  departments  took  effect,  and  there  is  a  cousin  of  the  Presi- 
dent at  the  head  of  the  Departamento  de  Kentas,  contracts  for  ammunition 
to  be  sold  to  the  patent  holders.  However,  this  change  in  this  department  has 
not  affected  us,  but  then  Jonas  arrived  and  he  joined  the  parade.  He  has 
been  fighting  like  hell.  He  is  a  very  close  friend  of  General  Padilla,  the 
Minister  of  War,  and  this  Minister  of  War  is  indebted  to  Winchester,  because 
they  give  him  a  commission  for  ordering  in  all  the  permits  Winchester 
ammunition.  You  will  recall  that  when  Freddy  arrived  in  New  York  he  had 
cjuite  a  nice  order  for  loaded  shells  and  some  cartridges.  Both  these  orders 
were  for  Winchester,  but  Freddy  gave  you  the  order  for  the  cartridges,  and 
he  bought  the  loaded  shells  from  Winchester ;  and  when  he  arrived  here  the 
general  gave  him  hell  for  doing  so,  and  he  Anally  admitted  to  Freddy  that 
he  was  "  morally "  interested  in  Winchester.  The  percentage  of  commission 
which  they  give  the  Minister  of  War  I  have  been  unable  to  find  out,  but  I 
believe  that  I  will  secure  this  information  before  I  leave. 

This  morning  I  went  with  Mr.  George  Cordere  with  another  contract  for 
$18,000.00  to  see  Mr.  Castaneda,  the  new  man  at  the  head  of  the  Depto.  de 
Rentas,  and  the  contract  specified  Remington's  ammunition  and  same  was 
signed  and  then  we  went  to  the  Minister  of  Finance,  who  also  signed  and 
gave  instructions  to  the  Subsecretary  to  notify  the  Minister  of  Foreign  Rela- 
tions so  that  he  can  issue  the  instructions  to  the  consul  of  Guatemala  in  New 
York  to  approve  the  consular  invoice.  So  far  everything  is  all  right,  but 
this  new  man  wants  $3,000.00  before  he  lets  go  the  contract,  promising  that 
as  long  as  he  holds  the  job  Remington  will  have  the  clear  road  through  Juan 
Van  de  Putte  Co.  Naturally,  Mr.  Cordero  accepted  the  conditions,  but  when 
we  came  back  to  the  store  Mr.  Herman  Topke,  of  Topke  &  Co.,  objected  to 
advancing  this  sum  (Topke  &  Co.  owns  Juan  Van  de  Putte  &  Co.)  because 
he  does  not  want  his  books  to  show  so  much  money  advanced  in  commission, 
as  the  books  are  quarterly  revised  by  Government  officials.  Now,  both  Mr. 
Cordero  and  myself  were  placed  in  an  awful  predicament.  The  contract 
signed  and  Mr.  Castaneda  could  not  be  convinced  that  the  money  would  be 
given  him  as  soon  as  tlie  cartridges  arrived.  Then  Mr.  Topke  suggested  that 
it  was  better  if  the  $3,000.00  would  appear  on  the  invoice,  and  it  was  decided 
that  I  should  communicate  with  you.  In  the  meantime  I  sent  you  a  wire  to 
hold  the  shipment,  because  I  do  not  know  if  you  would  be  agreeable  to  their 
proposition.     In  view  of  the  above,  I  sent  you  the  following  cable: 

"To  proceed  with  shipment  order  need  .$3,000.00  advance,  adding  same  to 
value  of  order  plus  interest  drawing,  as  stated,  if  agreeable.  Wire  funds 
Cazador.  Latest  development  make  it  necessary,  otherwise  lose  business. 
Advance   required  guaranteed.     Recommend   approval." 

Jonas  knows  all  about  it,  and  he  has  been  red  hot  after  Mr.  Cordero  to  give 
him  a  chance  to  quote,  but  so  far  Mr.  Cordero  has  stuck  with  us.    He  is  placed 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2609 

in  awkward  position,  Mr.  Topke  refusing  to  advance  tlie  money  and  the 
other  man  wants  his  money  in  advance.  Mr.  Cordero  hinted  to  Jonas  if  his 
company  would  be  willing  to  accept  the  order  at  the  same  basis  which  I  am 
outlining  to  you,  and  he  answered  in  the  affirmative.  I  am  afraid  if  you  do  not 
want  to  advance  the  money  that  Mr.  Cordero,  in  order  to  secure  the  contract, 
■will  give  the  contract  to  Winchester. 

In  the  cable  I  recommended  the  approval,  because  I  am  quite  sure  of  the 
solvency  and  seriousness  of  botli  .Tuan  van  dp  Putte  and  Topke  &  Co.  I,  at  the 
same  ti'me.  besides  getting  the  order  signed  for  $16,100.00  instead  of  $12,100.00, 
will  secure  a  letter  guaranteeing  the  advance  of  $3,000.00  in  the  event  that  for 
an  unforeseen  circumstance  the  goods  are  not  shipped. 

I  am  through  with  my  work  here,  and  I  have  been  detained  on  account  of 
this  order  and  looking  after  your  interests.  If  the  order  is  not  secured  because 
you  refuse  to  accept  their  proposition,  I  will  be  out  of  luck,  because  my  ex- 
penses have  been  running  just  the  same,  and  more.  However,  I  always  mix  the 
sweet  with  rhe  bitior,  and  if  thr  deal  is  not  closed  I  will  take  my  medicine;  but 
you  can  rest  assured  that  I  have  done  everything  possible  to  guard  your 
interests,  not  letting  go  the  order  to  another  channel. 

I  understand  that  Juan  van  de  Putte  sent  you  another  cable  confirming  my 
cable  and  informing  you  that  the  advance  is  guaranteed  by  them.  I  told  Mr. 
Cordero  to  charge  both  cables  to  Remington's  account,  to  be  deducted  from  your 
next  invoice  to  them. 

I  am  attaching  hereto  an  additional  order  for  100  M  percussion  caps,  which 
you  will  be  kind  enough  to  ship  in  conjunction  with  the  first  shipment  which  you 
-will  make  to  them.  They  are  in  dire  need  of  these  caps,  as  their  stock  is  nearly 
depleted. 

I  am  planning  to  leave  for  New  Orleans  on  the  21st  inst.,  arriving  at  New 
York  on  the  27th  instant,  and  trust  that  everything  will  be  arranged  satisfac- 
torily before  I  leave,  and  with  my  warmest  regards,  I  am. 
Yours  very  sincerely, 

G.   FE31NANDEZ. 


Exhibit  No.  965 
[(Pencil  note)   Letter  No.  31.     "A"] 

Managua,  DN.,  Nicabagua,  27  June,  193-'i. 

My  Dear  Frank  :  General  Somoza  had  dinner  wath  me  last  night  and  he 
told  me  that  he  intended  to  equip  the  Army  with  .45  calibre  Colt  automatic 
pistols  as  standard  equipment.  Guruceta,  of  course,  when  he  is  here  is  push- 
ing the  Star  pistol,  so  I  suggest  that  you  communicate  with  Mister  Nicols 
to  write  direct  to  General  Somoza  offering  to  sell  him  direct.  I  would  suggest 
that  in  his  quotation  he  should  include  a  10%  commission  for  General  Somoza. 

General  Somoza  has  accepted  this  commission  with  the  full  knowledge  of 
the  president  nnd  it  is  not  considered  as  graft  but  is  considered  as  an  extra 
pajmaent  for  the  work  he  is  doing  here.  If  Colt  would  see  the  way  clear  to 
reserve  2i/^%  commission  for  Ample  it  would  be  a  good  idea  as  he  will  push 
matters  throiigh  and  attend  to  the  details  of  opening  credits,  etc. 

I  expect  to  have  an  answer  from  the  General  today  on  the  various  Remington 
items  on  which  I  have  quoted  him  for  the  Government. 

The  order  for  the  Guardia  Nacional  has  been  reduced  to  approximately 
$1,900 — as  the  terms  I  granted  they  consider  rather  stiff.  I  saw  copies  of  last 
Winchester  order  in  which  Guruceta  allowed  them  30%  with  the  order  and 
the  remaining  70%  at  90  days  sight.  The  general  believes  that  the  Guardia 
Nacional  should  be  able  to  dispose  of  $4,000  to  $5,000  monthly  on  arms  and 
ammunition  [(Pencil  note)  in  the  dry  .season]  if  we  give  the  same  terms  as 
Winchester.  Furthermore,  he  has  agreed  to  give  me  all  the  ammunition 
and  as  much  of  the  Army  business  as  he  can.  They  say  there  is  no  risk 
entailed  on  doing  business  with  them  on  this  basis  as  all  money  are  deposited 
in  the  National  Bank  of  Nicaragua  as  soon  as  they  make  their  sales.  They 
increase  the  price  10%  to  the  dealers  when  they  pay  cash  and  15%  when 
credit  is  allowed.  Of  course,  I  realize  that  conditions  change  very  rapidly  in 
these  coimtries  so  I  am  against  going  too  deeply  and  it  might  be  better  to  allow 
the  competitors  to  get  some  of  the  business. 

Of  course,  on  Government  business,  that  is,  business  for  the  Army,  the  terms 
will  be  as  follows :   The  Government  will  establish  an  irrevocable  letter  of 


2610  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

credit  for  the  total  amount  of  the  order,  providing  for  payment  to  be  made  in 
tlie  following  manner :  20%  against  delivery  of  shipping  palmers  to  the  Bank, 
of  New  York  and  monthly  payments  of  20%  until  the  full  liquidation  of  the 
order.  This  is  the  way  in  which  they  are  paying  the  Auto-Ordnance  Corpora- 
tion, Winchester,  and  other  manufacturers,  therefore,  as  long  as  the  letter  of 
credit  is  irrevocable  there  is  no  risk,  except  the  risk  of  the  National  Bank  of 
Nicaragua  becoming  insolvent,  which  is  not  probable  from  the  reports  I  have- 
secured  here.  Their  set-up  is  very  sound. 
(Signed  in  ink)     Sincerely, 

Fkank    S.    Jonas, 
Frank. 

[In  ink]  P.  S. — Dry  season  means  about  6  months  of  tlie  year.     Therefore- 
their  purchases  can  amount  to  about  25  to  30  thousand. 


Exhibit  No.  966 

["A"] 

San  Salvador,  March  5th,  1932. 
Reaiington  Arms  Co.,  Inc., 

29  Warroi  Street,  Neic  York  City,  N.  Y. 
(Attention  of  Mr.  Geo.  Rugge.) 

Wish  to  acknowledge  receipt  of  your  cable  of  last  Saturday  which  reads  as 
follows : 

"  Quotations  sent  week-end  cable,  ten  percent  included.  Carbines  shotguns 
shipped,  documents  air-mail  you." 

I  also  received  your  week-end  letter  quoting  on  the  580  M  rounds  of  sporting 
ammunition  as  follows : 

"  FAS  New  York  eighty-one  hundred  sieventy-six  dollars.  La  Libertad 
eighty-seven  liundred  sixty-seven  dollars  not  including  consul  fees.  Oui' 
revolver  cartridges  oil  proof,  also  Kleanbore.  Try  get  getter  payment  arrange- 
ment." 

I  am  working  with  Mr.  Armando  Frenkel  on  this  business,  as  I  informed  you. 
Yesterday  the  quotation  from  his  connection  in  Toronto  arrived  and  much  to 
my  suriirise  their  quotation  is  much  lower  than  ours.  I  will  send  by  next  week's 
mail  copy  of  their  letter  quoting  on  the  same  quantity.  Fortunate  Mr.  Frenkel 
will  not  present  their  bid. 

Re:  Last  payment  on  the  government  7  m/in  order. — Last  Monday  I  received 
your  cable  as  follows : 

"  Balance  mausers  ready  for  shipment  Friday.  Has  check  been  sentV  If  not, 
request  cable  remittance,  answer  immediately." 

I  did  not  answer  right  away  because  I  was  in  hopes  to  cable  you  that  I  was 
going  to  send  the  draft  by  air  mail  leaving  Tuesday.  However,  since  10  days 
ago,  I  have  been  after  the  money,  and  only  last  Monday  I  succeeded  in  securing 
the  receipt  properly  signed  by  General  Martinez.  Coronel  Valdez.  the  minister  ot 
war,  and  Dr.  Molina,  the  minister  of  finance.  I  went  immediately  to  the  treas- 
ury but  I  met  with  bad  luck.  It  happens  that  the  money  that  was  deposited 
with  the  Banco  Agricola  Commercial  to  cancel  the  last  payment  of  the  order 
was  withdrawn  by  the  treasurer  and  although  both  Mr.  Rodolfo  Duke  and  Mr. 
Antonio  Vilanova  the  treasurer  of  the  Consejo  Civico  had  the  assurance  of  the 
treasurer  of  the  republic  to  cancel  the  last  payment  as  soon  as  the  receipt  was 
properly  signed,  he  did  not  want  to  do  it  on  account  of  the  exchange  being  so 
high.  He  promised  to  pay  next  Monday,  the  8th.  and  I  will  immediately  cable 
.vou  to  that  effect.  I  did  not  want  to  take  any  chances  and  that  is  why  I  sent 
you  the  following  cable : 

"Hold  shipment  following  steamer." 

I  do  not  kiuiw  wlicther  you  know  ah  >ut  tie  exchange  here.  It  fluctuates 
up  or  down  every  day.  F(>w  days  ago  the  rate  of  exchange  was  257  colones 
for  $100.00.  The  normal  rate  is  two  for  one.  Now  it  has  come  down  to  24;i. 
You  can  appreciate  how  something  like  tliis  effects  any  business  transaction. 
However,  the  nonpayment  of  the  last  installment  of  the  order  has  nothing  to- 
do  with  the  exchange  at  all.  I  know  all  the  do]ie.  The  treasurer,  IMr.  Joaquin 
Rodezno,  is  a  "son  of  a  so-and-so",  to  put  it  mililly.  T  have  been  trying  not 
to  have  another  clash  with  him.     He  is  a  very  goo<l  friend  of  Saul  Garcia.. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2611 

Winchester  representative,  and  he  has  heeu  "  greased "  by  Garcia,  with  the 
result  that  he  is  as  mad  as  a  "  puppy  "  because  I  secured  the  business,  and 
he  is  trying  to  place  everything  in  my  path  just  to  bother.  I  liad  a  sort  of 
an  argument  with  him  in  trout  of  Mr.  Dulve.  and  I  finally  had  the  upper 
hand.  The  document  which  I  have  signed  by  the  parties  which  I  mentioned 
in  another  jiaragraph  is  a  bona  fide  legalized  document,  and  as  far  as  securing 
the  money  is  jierlectly  safe.  I  did  not  want  to  trouble  General  Martinez 
about  it,  but  if  he  does  not  come  rUjross  next  Monday  I  will  have  to  resort 
to  this  measure.  At  any  rate,  I  feel  quite  confident  that  I  will  send  you 
the  money  during  the  next  few  days  and  will  cable  you  to  effect  shipment 
as  soon  as  the  drafts  is  in  my  possession. 

Re:  Carbines  and  shotf/iins. — I  i-ecelved  the  document  covering  the  sliipment 
through  Pts.  Barries,  and  I  have  been  informed  that  they  are  due  here  early 
next  week.  I  trust  that  I  will  be  able  to  secure  some  nice  business  for  both 
these  items  and  some  "Riot  shot  shells."  I  will  keep  you  posted  on  this 
business. 

Re:  Neir  quotation  on  the  7  m/ni  Mauser  Cartridges. — I  have  already  written 
you  that  I  have  found  your  quotation  lower  than  the  previous  one.  I  have 
thought  it  best  not  to  present  same  until  I  get  tlie  final  payment  of  the 
previous  order.  There  is  a  lot  of  competition  on  this  item.  They  will  prob- 
ably buy  3  million  rounds.  As  I  told  you  before,  the  Consejo  Civice  is 
going  to  have  the  control  of  the  buying  and  paying,  but  the  War  Dept.  will 
instruct  them  what  they  want.  I  am  very  much  enthused  because  the  Treas- 
urer, Mr.  Antonio  Vilanova  is  a  very  honest  and  good  friend  of  mine.  I  am 
very  close  to  his  brothers,  Jimmy  and  Alberto  and  Frank.  This  is  one  party 
I  do  not  have  to  "  grease ".  but  there  are  plenty  in  some  other  directions. 
For  instance,  Colonel  Bara,  Chief  of  the  War  Supply  Dept.,  wants  2%. 
There  is  the  buyer  of  tbe  Republic  Provendor  General.  He  wants  something 
too  and  there  is  Mr.  Armando  Frenkel  who  is  working  with  me  on  this  busi- 
ness and  there  is  me  too.  That  is  why  the  7-1/2%  is  not  an  enormous  per- 
centage as  you  seem  to  think  it  is.  As  I  cannot  remain  here  indefinitely  and 
as  we  need  some  reliable  person  to  take  care  of  the  business  I  believe  honestly 
that  I  have  made  the  best  connection  there  is  in  town  in  Mr.  A.  Frenkel.  He 
sells  to  the  Government  a  lot  of  goods  and  certainly  knows  the  ropes  too.  He 
sold  to  the  Government  100  Swiss-made  machine  guns  and  150  M  rounds 
of  0  m/m  cartridges  for  same.  He  is  a  Mason,  and  General  Martinez  is  a 
Mason,  too.  and  it  seems  that  General  Martinez  when  he  was  appointed  last 
year  Minister  of  War  induced  Mr.  Frenkel  to  get  some  connection  in  the  arms 
and  ammunition  line.  I  am  including  herewith  original  letter  signed  by  Mr. 
Frenkel.  and  as  you  will  note,  the  final  confirmation  has  come  from  you,  so 
thei-e  is  not  a  commitment  on  my  part.  You  are  the  one  to  decide  if  Mr. 
Frenkel  is  going  to  work  with  us  or  not.  For  your  particular  infomiation 
Dupont  wrote  to  him  offering  their  representation  without  him  asking  for  it,  and 
he  is  working  with  mo  on  the  Government  business  not  taking  into  consideration 
that  Canadian  firm  of  which  I  have  written  you  about. 

As  soon  as  you  receive  this  letter  I  wish  you  would  send  me  by  air  mail  a 
check  to  my  favor  for  the  sum  of  $300.00  (three  hundred  dollars),  which  you 
will  please  charge  to  my  account. 

With   nothing  further  .iust   at  present,   and   hoping   that   I  will   have   some 
good  news  for  you  during  the  course  of  the  next  week,  I  am. 
Yours  very  truly, 

L.   G.   Fernandez. 


ExHiBiiT  No.  007 

J.  Saul  Garcia. 
Apartado  Postal  No.  23, 
San  Salvador.  El  Salvador,  C.  A.,  Tslovemher  5,  1932. 

WiNOHESTEH  REPEATING  AkMS   COMPANY, 

'New  Haven.  Conn.,  U.  S.  A. 

Gentlemen  :  Attached  I  am  pleased  to  send  you  note  from  the  ministry  of 
war,  so  that  once  you  have  read  it  you  will  return  it  to  me  for  my  files. 

As  you  will  note,  that  order  was  reduced  to  200,000  and  placed  at  the  price 
of  $14.70  c.  i.  f.  This  is  the  same  price  that  was  quoted  by  the  three  com- 
petitors from  that  country,  and  I  was  able  to  secure  the  order  for  you  thru 
the  very  efficient  cooperation  of  Colonel  Ernesto  Biira,  chief  of  the  <lei;artment 
of  war. 


2612  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Regarding  the  commission  of  20  cents  offered  by  you,  and  wliicli  is  now 
reduced,  I  would  state  tliat  I  have  offered  it  to  a  person  who  was  very  influ- 
ential in  securing  this  business  for  you,  and,  as  I  have  told  you  in  previous 
correspondence,  I  am  not  interested  in  making  any  profit  on  tliis  transaction,, 
and,  on  the  contrary,  the  cable,  correspondence,  and  other  charges  will  be  for 
my  account,  and  my  only  gain  is  that  I  have  secured  this  order  for  you  in  spite 
of  the  fact  that  Remington  was  intensely,  and  this  is  a  source  of  great 
satisfaction  to  me. 

As  there  will  be  no  more  time  this  week  to  carry  thru  the  arrangements  to 
get  the  %  mentioned  in  the  contract,  I  trust  to  do  this  during  the  coming  week. 

As  regards  tlie  manner  of  packing  which  they  have  specified,  it  appears  to  me 
to  be  very  costly.  Therefore,  it  would  be  best  that  you  write  me  a  letter 
acknowledging  receipt  of  the  order  and,  at  the  same  time,  telling  me  that  the 
price  quoted  does  not  include  packing  in  tin-lined  cases,  and  that,  therefore,, 
you  will  ship  the  goods  well  packed  in  standard  cases. 

The  order  from  the  Proveedor  del  Gobierno  for  you  will  be  delivered  to  me,, 
and  I  will  send  it  to  you  by  the  next  air  mail. 
Yours, 

Garcia. 

JMS— 11-10-32. 


Exhibit  No.  968 

["A"] 

Hotel  Ntnevo  Mundo, 
San  Salvador,  C.  A.,  March  5,  1932. 
REiMiNaxoN  Arms  Co.,  Inc., 

29  Warreti  Street,  New  York  City. 
(Attention  of  Mr.  George  Rugge.) 

Gentlemen  :  I  wish  to  acknowledge  receipt  of  your  letter  of  the  16th  ultimo, 
in  connection  witli  various  cables  exchanged  between  us  pertaining  to  the 
second  remittance  of  $11,533.00. 

I  also  liave  for  acknowledgment  your  letter  of  the  17th  of  Feb.  in  which  you 
confirm  my  cable  to  advising  that  the  draft  sent  was  for  the  same  amount  and 
that  the  last  payment  was  guaranteed  by  the  Banco  Agricola  Commercial. 

Your  letter  of  the  17th  of  February  confirm  your  cable  in  which  you  advised 
me  that  you  were  shipping  three  hundred  thousand  rounds  and  to  hurry  permit 
for  my  order  for  rifles  and  shotguns. 

Your  letter  Feb.  19th  brought  the  documents  covering  your  shipment  on  the 
steamship  Santa  Elisa,  and  acknowledge  receipt  of  the  remittance  of  $11,533.00. 

I  was  not  surprised  at  all  about  the  information  you  give  me  in  your  letter  of 
the  19th  relative  to  the  permit  for  the  carbines  and  the  shotgun.  I  do  appre- 
ciate all  the  trouble  you  went  through  at  that  end,  and  if  I  must  be  frank  I  had 
a  hell  of  a  lot  of  trouble  trying  to  have  the  Ministerio  de  Relacioues  in  this  city 
sent  tlie  cable  to  the  consul  at  that  end.  Fortunately  you  finally  got  through 
the  shipment  which  is  expected  here  sometime  early  next  week. 

I  agree  with  you  that  during  these  general  unfavorable  conditions  throughout 
the  world  "  half  a  loaf  "  is  better  than  none.  It  is  also  interesting  to  know  that 
I  and  Mr.  Expenses  will  derive  an  amount  that  is  not  far  away  from  your  profit. 
It  is  also  of  great  interest  to  me  to  note  that  the  unpleasant  fellow  "  Mr. 
Overhead  "  is  much  in  evidence.  I  might  add  that  this  same  fellow  is  still 
very  much  with  me.  Communications,  hotel,  incidentals,  etc.,  etc.,  are  vei-y 
much  the  same  around  this  neck  of  the  woods.  I  do  not  wish  you  to  assume 
that  I  am  selfish  in  this  respect.  I  will  give  you  an.  idea  of  how  I  came  out 
on  the  Guatemalan  order  which  I  would  have  not  brought  up,  but  to  prove  to 
you  my  sincere  standhig  with  you.  It  cost  me,  round  trip  to  Guatemala  by 
plane,  $45.00  and  10  days  which  I  spent  there  at  the  rate  of  $6.00,  not  counting 
some  extras,  $60.00'.  There  you  have  a  figure  of  $105.00.  Now,  you  will  please 
check  up  what  commission  I  will  derive  from  this  transaction  and  you  wiil  see 
how  much  is  left  for  me  as  a  way  of  profit,  and  then  I  w'as  taking  the  chance  of 
securing  the  business  or  not.  Fortunately  I  was  able  to  secure  it.  On  normal 
conditions  I  would  have  been  able  to  procure  some  business  for  the  other  lines 
which  I  represent.  However,  this  is  not  the  case.  I  only  got  an  order  for 
Pexto  which  does  not  amount  over  $200.00,  leaving  a  profit  for  myself  of  some 
odd  $12.00.  Now  you  see,  Mr.  Rugge,  that  the  same  fellow  is  around  with  me, 
"  Mr.  Overhead  ",  and  please  do  not  forget  that  I  am  holding  the  bag. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2613 

On  this  order  for  7  m/ni  mauser  which  I  got  the  whole  commission  of  7%% 
is  not  for  L.G.F.  As  you  probably  know  you  liave  to  "oil"  or  "grease'" 
certain  parties  in  order  get  it  through.  Otherwise  you  are  out  of  luck.  Nat- 
urally, I  would  like  to  make  a  little  bit  for  myself,  otherwise  I  will  go  straight 
and  drown  myself  in  the  river.  I  will  not  discuss  this  point  with  you  any 
more  and  I  will  not  go  bothering  with  your  quotations,  until  I  have  the  pleasure 
of  being  back  in  N.  Y.,  when  again  I  will  take  this  matter  up  with  you. 

I  also  wish  to  acknowledge  receipt  of  your  letter  quoting  me  on  7  m/m  mauser 
cartridges  on  both  1  million  and  2  million  rounds,  F.  A.  y.  and  c.i.f.  La 
Libertad.  I  noted  that  your  quotation  is  lower  than  the  previous  one.  I  have 
not  taken  this  new  quotation  with  the  powers  that  be  until  I  have  concluded  the 
present  transaction.     I  will  take  this  matter  further  up. 

In  your  letter  of  the  20th  you  confirm  the  commission  of  7^/^%  on  further 
potential  government  business  on  7  m/m  cartridges  c.i.f.  La  Libertad  and  advise 
that  in  the  event  that  a  much  lower  price  is  necessary  to  secure  the  order,  to 
keep  you  advised  of  the  developments  by  cable  and  that  you  will  cooperate 
with  me  to  that  end. 

I  have  been  told  that  Elmslie  Jonas  is  already  in  Panama  and  that  he  will 
arrive  here  by  the  end  of  the  present  month.  You  will  be  surprised  to  note 
how  things  are  here  now  as  far  as  the  competition  is  concerned.  There  are 
representatives  from  Czechoslovakia,  Spain  (2  of  them),  Belgium,  France,  and 
Germany,  plus  Winchester,  and  little  me.  Representatives  have  sprung  up 
from  the  ground.  As  soon  as  I  think  it  advisable  to  leave  San  Salvador  I  will 
fly  to  Honduras  and  go  south  passing  through  Costa  Rica  and  to  my  final 
destination,  Panama.  I  have  not  great  hopes  in  Costa  Rica  as  I  believe  that 
there  is  not  much  doing  over  there  in  the  way  of  securing  any  military 
cartridge  business.     I  might  be  wrong  at  that. 

I  also  received  your  letter  of  the  23rd  of  Feb.,  contents  of  which  I  have  duly 
noted.  I  do  really  appreciate  that  my  efforts  have  been  considered  as  splendid 
by  you  and  I  am  looking  forward  to  your  cooperation  with  me.  I  also  wish  to 
acknowledge  receipt  of  the  letterheads  which  came  under  separate  cover. 

I  also  have  for  acknowledgement  your  two  letters  of  February  24th  in  con- 
nection with  your  quotation  for  .45  automatic  and  .44  Win.  It  is  true  that  this 
government  has  some  Thompson's  machine  guns. 

With  my  warmest  regards,  I  am, 
Yours  very  truly, 

L.  G.  Fernandez. 


Exhibit  No.  969 

L"A"] 

Tegucigalpa,  Honduras,  April  25,  1932. 
Remington  Arms  Co.,  Inc., 

29  Warren  Street,  New  York  City. 
(Attention  of  Mr.  George  Rugge.) 

Gentlemen  :  I  wish  to  confirm  my  letter  to  you  dated  the  16th  instant.  You 
will  probably  have  received  the  order  for  Rentas  from  Mr.  Armando  Frankel 
and  probably  you  will  have  received  advices  from  the  bank  that  the  outstanding 
draft  has  been  paid.  As  you  perfectly  know  I  sold  that  merchandise  sometime 
last  year,  at  the  old  list  prices.  There  was  an  average  of  10%  for  Mr.  Lemus  at 
that  time  the  Proveedor  General  del  Gobierno.  Since  Mr.  Lemus  has  been 
kicked  out  we  do  not  have  to  pay  him  up.  You  will  discount  from  this 
average  your  percentage  for  the  interest  figured  at  6%  per  annum ;  and  the 
balance  we  will  split  up.  I  wi,ll  take  this  matter  when  I  return  and  will 
explain  to  you  all  I  went  through  with  this  collection. 

Attached  you  will  please  find  order  no.  132  for  account  of  Bazar  Union — 
Messrs,  Agurtia  y  Mendoza ;  of  this  city.  These  people  are  rated  Al.  Please 
do  not  fail  to  send  them  samples  of  the  "  Kleanshave "  razor  blades  and 
quotations,  I  wish  also  to  advise  you  to  send  samples  of  the  "  Kleanshave " 
razor  blades  to  the  following  firms : 

Messrs.  Felix  Olivella  e  Hijo,  San  Salvador,  El  Salvador,  C.  A. 

(Quote  on  60m  blades.) 

Messrs.  C.  Bernheim  &  Co.,  San  Salvador,  El  Salvador,  C.  A. 

Send  these  samples  by  first-class  mail,  otherwise  they  will  not  reach  desti- 
nation. 


2614  MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 

You  will  also  find  attached  hereto  receipt  from  the  cable  office  covering 
my  last  cable  to  you,  in  the  amount  of  $2.60  which  you  will  please  credit  to 
my  account. 

I  am  enclosing  herewith  a  sheet  of  paper  with  the  signature  of  Jose  M. 
Ocho  V.  the  Minister  of  War  and  Mr.  J.  A.  Santos  P,  the  Sub-Secretary  of 
War.  I  promised  that  you  would  send  them  by  reg.  parcel  post,  one  each  pen 
knives  with  their  signatures.     Please  take  care  of  this  request. 

I  have  been  quite  busy  since  I  arrived  here  and  the  chances  are  that  we 
will  get  some  very  attractive  business  from  this  territory.  It  is  too  bad  that 
the  President  cancelled  all  the  permits  for  sporting  ammunition  and  revolvers; 
otherwise  I  would  haxe  cleaned  up  here.  All  our  clients,  Rossner,  Koencke, 
Sierke,  Rafael  Quan,  Santos  Soto,  wanted  to  place  orders  with  me. 

Tegucigalpa. 

I  am  trying  to  manipulate  a  very  nice  business  through  another  source.  I 
believe  that  jou  already  know  how  the  permits  are  gotten  here.  There  is  a 
man  here  by  the  name  of  Miguel  Brooke,  very  wealthy  and  influential.  He 
always  gets  permits  because  he  advances  money  to  public  officials ;  including 
the  President  himself.  He  is  working  with  the  chief  of  police  for  an  order  for 
500  M  rounds  of  revolver  ammunition  and  200  S  &  W  revolvers.  Today  I  will 
know  definitely  if  I  will  book  this  order. 

Just  before  I  left  San  Salvador  I  called  on  Huber  &  Co.,  and  Mr.  Huber 
talked  to  me  of  how  influential  they  were  here  in  Tegucigalpa,  etc.,  etc.  He 
asked  me  to  write  them  a  letter,  sort  of  temporary  agreement,  which  I  did. 
You  will  find  a  copy  of  this  letter  attached  hereto,  which  does  not  mean  a 
tlarntHl  thing.  Immediately  upon  my  arrival  here  in  five  minutes  I  convinced 
myself  of  how  little  these  people  could  help  us.  On  the  contrary,  they  would 
do  us  some  harm  if  we  hook  up  with  them.  I  have  not  gone  over  to  see  them 
after  the  first  day  I  arrived.  Please  do  not  pay  any  attention  to  Huber  &  Co. 
I  asked  Mr.  Ochoa,  the  Minister  of  War.  in  a  very  diplomatic  way  who  was 
the  persona  grata  with  him  and  the  President  for  Government  l)usiness  and 
he  sent  me  over  to  Mr.  Cornelio  Zamora.  of  the  firm  of  Zamora,  Henriquez  &,  Co. 
It  seems  that  this  firm  is  now  doing  all  the  Government  business,  and  they  split 
with  the  officials  the  commission  and  overages,  etc.  This  Government  is  in  need 
of  some  ammunition,  but  the  Ministerio  de  la  Guerra  will  not  have  money  until 
the  month  of  August.  I  talked  to  the  President,  the  Minister  of  War,  and  the 
Sub-Secretary  of  War  with  this  fellow  Zamora,  and  we  convinced  them  that 
they  should  write  up  the  order  now  for  what  they  want  and  when  they  have 
the  money  Zamora  will  get  the  money  and  send  it  to  us  and  instruct  us  to  ship. 
Today  is  Monday,  and  Mr.  Santos,  the  Sub-Secretary  of  War,  promised  to  work 
with  me  in  the  morning ;  but  he  did  not  show  up.  It  happens  that  yesterday 
I  went  on  a  picnic  with  him  and  he  got  plastered.  Probably  he  has  a  hog  over 
today,  but  I  trust  that  I  will  see  him  this  afternoon.  I  do  hope  that  before  I 
leave  I  will  be  able  to  have  in  my  possession  the  pro-forma  order.  I  am  writing 
up  an  agreement  similar  to  the  one  I  wrote  for  Mr.  Frankel  with  the  firm  of 
Zamora,  Henriquez  &  Co. 

I  have  booked  passage  on  the  place  leaving  here  Wednesday  morning  for 
Nicaragua.  I  have  already  given  instructions  to  the  firm  of  Borghi  B  Daglio 
&  Co.  to  forward  my  mail  there,  and  I  am  in  hopes  that  during  the  next  few 
days  I  will  have  news  from  you  in  Nicaragua. 

in  the  meantime  with  my  kindest  regards  to  all,  I  am. 
Yours  very  truly, 

L.  G.  Fernandez. 


Exhibit  No.  970 

t"A"l 

San  Salvador,  Ai)ril  7,  1932. 
Remington  Arms  Co.,  Inc., 

29  Warroi  Street,  Ncic  York  Citij. 
(Attention  of  Mr.  George  Rugge.) 
Gbntt.embn  :  I  wish  to  acknowledge  receipt  of  your  letter  of  March  29'th  en- 
closing receipt  from  the  Equita))le  Life.  etc.  etc.     Tlianks  a  lot  for  all  your 
trouble.     I  liave  taken  due  note  of  niy  debt  to  you  and  when  I  get  back  I  will 
probably  settle  it  with  you  at  "  Mitcliels." 

I  have  taken  due  note  of  all  your  interesting  comments  of  your  letter  and  I 
can  appreciate  how  things  are  over  tiiere.     Let  me  tell  you.  George,  things  are 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2615 

pretty  rotten,  even  in  Denmark.  I  do  sincerely  liope  that  old  man  depression 
will  go  to  hell  and  damn  quick,  too.  If  he  insists  to  be  around  any  longer  I  will 
probably  take  a  job  as  a  street  cleaner,  as  selling  apples  over  there  is  out  of 
fashion  now,  I  presume. 

Too  bad  about  Frank  Jonas.  I  believe  him  to  be  a  very  able  man  and  I  am 
quite  sure  that  he  will  eventually  secure  something  interesting.  You  will  prob- 
ably know  by  this  time  that  Elraslie  Jonas  arrived  here  a  few  days  ago.  Indeed, 
it  will  be  of  great  interest  to  you  to  know  about  his  activities.  I  have  a  lot  to 
tell  you  and  I  am  going  to  commence.  If  I  pass  up  any  information  right  now 
later  on  I  will  pass  them  on  to  you  either  personally  or  by  writing.  Ehnslie  has 
traveled  quite  fast  from  Panama  up  here.  He  stopped  at  San  Jose,  but  could 
not  do  a  thing  over  there.  Then  he  stopped  in  Managua  for  a  few  days  during 
Holy  Week  and  he  was  able  to  sell  some  flashlights.  He  did  not  go  to  Teguci- 
galpa at  all.  He  has  been  raising  hell  here  witli  his  agent  Saul  Garcia  on  ac- 
count of  my  taking  the  order  for  the  million  rounds  7  m/m  and  if  it  were  not 
for  the  fact  that  this  Government  still  owes  Winchester  about  $6,000.00  and 
Garcia  can  help  collect  this  amount  for  them,  he  will  kick  Garcia  about  exactly 
one  thousand  feet  from  the  representation.  He  has  been  unable  to  secure  any 
orders  from  the  trade  here  and  as  you  probably  have  taken  note  I  have  booked 
all  the  orders  that  were  to  be  gotten,  even  with  Jonas  right  here.  You  see,  I 
do  not  wish  to  pat  myself  on  the  shoulder  but  I  will  be  hanged  if  Jonas  or  any- 
body else  woukl  get  an  order  away  from  me  from  the  commercial  trade  here. 
With  me  it  is  a  personal  thing  more  so  than  anything  else,  not  overlooking  the 
fact  that  I  sell  the  best  ammunition  manufactured  in  the  world.  No  kidding. 
Kleanbore  Oilproof  and  what  have  you.  He  went  around  to  Felix  Olivella  and 
offered  him  a  special  discount  of  7%%  if  he  would  stock  Western.  Felix,  who 
by  the  way  is  a  very  close  friend  of  mine,  called  me  over  the  phone  inmiediately 
to  put  me  wise.  He  informed  Jonas  that  even  if  he  offered  him  a  bigger  per- 
centage he  would  not  change  from  Remington  as  Fernandez  was  selling  this 
particular  brand  and  that  any  confidential  discount  that  he  might  offer  him  "  le 
venia  muy  flajo  "  (would  fit  him  loose — translated  literally).  In  other  words, 
he  just  informed  him  that  he  would  not  be  interested  at  all.  Naturally  Jonas 
upon  his  arrival  got  ail  the  information  from  his  agent  here  about  everything 
that  was  going  around.  The  order  for  the  45  and  the  order  for  the  Adrainis- 
tracion  de  Rentas.  Mr.  Frenkel  and  I  have  been  after  the  order  for  the  45  and 
we  had  the  business.  Then  before  Jonas  arrived  they  quoted  lower,  as  I  have 
already  informed  you.  It  has  been  a  great  thing  that  you  authorized  me  to  book 
the  order  at  the  lower  price  of  .$24.50  GIF,  including  our  commission,  otherwise 
we  would  have  been  out  of  luck.  Mr.  Gurozeta,  the  agent  for  the  "  Star  "  Span- 
ish pistol,  resides  in  Guatemala  and  he  left  a  party  by  the  name  of  J.  D.  Mendez 
as  his  subagent  here.  Not  to  bore  you  any  more,  Mr.  Frenkel  quoted  on  the 
"  Star  "  pistol  to  the  Guardia  Nacional.  from  his  agent  in  Hamburg,  Mr.  Lach- 
mann,  and  he  got  the  business.  When  Jonas  arrived  they  had  a  meeting  at  the 
hotel  between  this  fellow  Mendez,  Garcia,  his  agent,  and  himself  and  they  sent  a 
telegram  to  this  Mr.  Guruzet  and  he  arrived  here  yesterday.  It  was  a  good 
thing  that  this  fellow  arrived  as  he  was  very  pleased  that  Mr.  Frenkel  got  the 
order  for  the  750  pistols  and  naturally  we  got  the  ammunition  order.  It  has 
been  clinched.  The  order  was  put  through  the  consul  of  the  National  Guard 
and  has  been  decided,  etc.  etc.  We  only  need  the  signature  of  General  Llanos 
the  head  of  the  Guardia  Nacional.  Yesterday  we  talked  to  him  and  he  informed 
us  not  to  worry  as  the  order  is  ours.  No  matter  what  the  competition  say  or 
holler.  They  are  discounting  10  colones  every  month  from  each  soldier  of  the 
Guardia  (750)  making  a  total  of  7,500  colones  every  month  to  pay  for  the  pistols 
and  the  ammunition.  They  are  depositing  this  amount  in  a  bank  in  a  joint 
account  Armando  Frenkel -Guardia  Nacional.  You  see  these  pistols  have  to  be 
shipped  from  Germany  and  the  cartridges  from  New  York.  It  does  not  matter 
how  soon  you  will  receive  the  order  as  it  will  have  to  be  held  up  at  your  office 
until  Mr.  Frenkel  advises  you  to  ship  so  that  the  cartridges  would  arrive  more 
or  less  about  the  same  time  as  tlie  pistols.  By  the  time  that  the  pistols  are  ready 
there  will  be  enough  money  in  the  bank  to  pa.v  for  the  cartridges  and  Mr.  Frenkel 
will  see  to  it  that  you  get  your  money  first  as  he  has  agreed  with  mp.  That 
is.  you  will  have  the  money  in  your  possession  before  you  ship  the  cartridges. 
The  order  fo)'  the  Guardia  will  be  for  112,500  rounds  of  ammunition  and  for  the 
Ministerio  de  la  Guerra  will  be  for  21  M  rounds,  making  a  total  just  at  present 
cf  1331/!  M  rounds.  There  is  an  additional  order  for  Guardia  of  199'  M  of  45 
after  they  i*eceive  the  pistols  and  ammunition  and  you  can  rest  assured  that  this 
s;:JS76 — .•'..■i— PT  1 1 1 .- 


2616  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

additional  order  will  come  our  way.  I  am  enclosing  herewith  the  order  for 
the  Ministerio  de  la  Guerra  for  the  21  M  and  I  do  hope  that  before  long  I  will 
send  you  the  order  for  Guardia  Nacional.  You  are  not  to  ship  this  order  for 
the  Ministerio  de  la  Guerra  until  Mr.  Frenkel  advises  you. 

Now,  since  Elmslie  has  not  been  able  to  book  any* orders  from  the  trade  here 
and  he  lost  out  on  the  orders  for  the  45  he  is  as  mad  as  hell.  Yesterday  at  the 
hotel  he  told  me  that  he  was  going  to  secure  the  order  for  the  Administracion 
de  Rentas  for  the  580  M  rounds  even  if  he  had  to  quote  below  cost.  That  is  a 
hell  of  a  broad  statement  to  make  but  you  can  appreciate  what  I  am  up  against. 
Last  Sunday  I  tried  to  convince  him  that  we  should  quote  the  same  prices  and 
to  split  the  order  so  that  everybody  would  be  satisfied.  He  did  not  want  to  agree 
and  on  Monday  he  delivered  bis  quotation  to  Mr.  Tomas  Molina,  de  Minister  of 
Finance,  and  later  on  I  delivered  my  quotation.  Dr.  Molina  is  going  to  decide 
and  be  will  give  the  order  to  the  lowest  bidder.  He  expects  to  decide  either 
tomorrow  or  next  Monday.  You  will  know  all  al)out  it  pretty  soon.  You  told 
me  that  I  am  perfectly  capable  of  taking  care  of  myself  but  with  these  odds  I 
do  not  believe  that  anybody  would  have  a  chance.  If  we  lose  the  business  it 
will  not  be  on  account  of  Mr.  Frenkel's  or  my  ability,  but  it  will  be  due  to  the 
fact  that  Jonas  is  sore  and  will  try  to  secure  the  business  at  any  cost,  even  jeop- 
ardizing future  business  as  far  as  prices  is  concerned.  He  will  establish  a  per- 
cent as  far  as  low  prices  is  concerned  and  it  will  take  a  hell  of  a  time  to  restore 
the  prices  so  that  everybody  could  get  a  decent  profit.  I  explained  to  him  all 
these  points  but  he  is  stubborn  and  did  not  want  to  listen  to  reason.  He  wants 
to  show  the  new  Co.  that  even  with  all  the  competition  he  ai'rived  and  he  secured 
the  business.     It  is  a  question  of  pride  with  him  more  so  than  anything  else. 

I  also  received  your  letter  relative  to  the  business  for  carbines  for  Guatemala. 
That  same  day  Saturday  last.  I  sent  the  original  letter  I  received  from  you  to 
Mr.  Isidore  Berkowitz,  of  the  firm  of  F.  Koenigsberger  &  Co.  I  was  going  to  send 
a  sample  of  the  carbine,  one  which  I  have  in  my  room,  but  the  Air-Plane  Co.  did 
not  accept  it,  being  against  the  regulations  of  the  company  to  carry  any  arms  or 
ammunition.  You  will  hear  direct  from  F.  Koenigsberger  &  Co.  I  also  wrote  to 
them  by  that  same  mail.  They  will  probably  get  busy  on  it  before  Elmslie  gets 
over  there. 


Yours  very  truly. 


L.  G.  Fernandez. 


Exhibit  No.  971 

["A",  Letter  no.  o-S] 

San  Salvador,  Julu  6th,  WS//. 
Remington  Arms  Co., 

Bridgeport,  Conn. 
(Attention  of  Mr.  Frank  Monaghan.) 

Da\B  Sirs:  I  arrived  here  on  Tuesday  the  3rd. 

Together  with  Josephs,  Frankels  nephew,  we  visited  the  trade  and  am  en- 
closing three  small  orders.  The  recent  floods  have  effected  business  and  it 
makes  it  very  difiicult  inducing  a  customer  to  puix-hase  anything  at  all. 

Snrs.  C.  Bernheim  &  Co. :  This  is  a  fair-sized  department  store,  who  carry 
our  arms  and  ammunition  exclusively.  Ov.-ing  to  the  restrictions  and  hard 
times,  their  piu-chases  now  are  very  small.     Credit  good. 

Snr.  Antonio  Bou  :  A  general  store  who  handle  our  line  exclusively.  They 
have  an  order  on  tlie  way,  so  cou^d  only  interest  them  in  our  rifles.  Carry 
our  22  cal.  ammunition,  shotgun  shells,  and  a  few  22-caliber  rifles.     Gof>d  credit. 

Snrs.  Borghi  E.  Daglio  &  Co. :  Largest  and  wealthiest  hardware  store  in  Sal- 
vador. Handle  our  line  exclusively,  but  owing  to  J-estrictions  and  poor  business 
have  curtailed  their  purchases  considerably.  Received  a  small  order  for  am- 
munition.    Credit  excellent. 

Snrs.  Mugdan  &  Co.:  This  is  a  large  hardware  store,  who  are  exclusive  Win- 
chester distributors.  They  carry  their  flashliirhts.  22-caliber  riuimunition,  22- 
caliber  rifles,  and  shotgun  shells.  As  they  have  the  exclusive  snle  of  Winchester 
and  the  information  that  they  did  not  purchase  enough  to  split  the  business,  I 
did  not  press  too  hard  for  an  order.     Creilit  good. 

Sr.  Felix  Alive.'la:  A  large  hardware  store  who  handle  our  line  exclusively. 
Claim  they  have  an  order  in  transit  i;nd  owing  to  conditions  could  not  see  their 
way  clear  to  place  a  further  order.     Credit  very  good. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2617 

Snrs.  Sagrera  &  Co. :  A  small  hardware  store  who  handles  at  present  our  line 
exclusively.  Did  have  some  ranger  civtridges  iu  but  from  ;ill  appearance-,  they- 
had  been  there  for  years.  Claim.s  to  have  an  order  in  transit,  so  could  get 
nothing.     Credit  questionable. 

Snrs.  Carlos  A.  Schmidt  »&  Co. :  Not  in,  so  could  do  nothing. 

Snrs.  Roberto  Soundy  &  Co. :  Very  small  hardware  store.  Has  Winchester 
advertising,  but  carries  our  line  exclusively.  Sold  practically  all  of  his  last 
order,  but  as  elections  are  coming  on,  claims  he  is  afraid  to  put  in  a  stock,  as  in 
case  of  trouble  the  government  will  take  over  all  of  his  stulf.     Fair  credit. 

Please  take  the  other  lirms  off  of  your  trade  list,  as  they  are  out  of  business  or 
do  not  deal  in  the  line  any  more. 

I  called  on  Colonel  Ernesta  Bara.  who  does  all  of  the  purchasing  for  the 
Salvadore  Army,  and  his  opinion  of  Joseph  was  nil.  Th:it  evening  we  had 
dinner  together  and  he  frankly  stated  that  whenever  he  could  evade  it  he  would 
do  no  business  with  Iheui.  Later  in  the  evening  he  became  quite  excited  about 
both  Frankel  and  Josephs,  cursing  their  ancestry  from  the  beginning  of  time.  It 
appears  that  there  is  not  much  friendship  lost  between  these  two  parties.  The 
Government  purchased  from  Frankel  in  1932  47  7m/m  Solothurn  field  machine 
guns  and  500 — 9  m/m  submachine  rifles,  and  one  million  Steyer  9  m/m  car- 
tridges for  same.  Evidently  Col.  Bara  did  not  get  his  proper  share,  and  his 
opinion  was  formed.  He  now  recommends  Dada,  Dada  &  Co.,  speaking  most 
highly  of  them.  Frankel,  of  course,  speaks  very  disparagingly  of  Dada,  Dada, 
claiming  that  they  had  Iwught  Bara,  hence  their  friendship.  He  did  admit,  how- 
ever, that  he  had  also  paid  Bara ;  but  undoubtedly  Dada  had  given  him  more. 
It  is  such  a  small  place  and  there  is  so  much  jealousy  that  everyone  knocks 
the  other  fellow. 

I  called  on  the  Anglo  Bank,  and  their  report  on  Dada  was  not  favorable, 
but  the  Banco  Agricola  or  the  Banco  de  Reserve  could  not  speak  too  highly  of 
them,  so  take  your  choice.  Dada  now  has  a  contract  drawn  up  with  the  Gov- 
ernment on  a  deal  he  is  closing  with  the  Madison  gun  manufactured  by  the 
A/S  Dan^k  RekylrifSe  syndikat  of  Copenhagen  for  200  Madsen  machine  rifles 
at  one  hundred  and  thirteen  pounds  each,  which  includes  extra  barrels  for  each 
gun  and  accessories  of  all  kinds  for  the  gun.  I  am  bi'inging  you  a  catalog.  This 
company  had  a  Colonel  Walter  MacKesson  out  here  for  the  past  two  months 
demonstrating  this  gun.  and  he  has  given  the  agency  to  Dada  Dada.  The  terms 
on  which  the  deal  was  closed  was  one-third  cash,  one-third  in  eighteen  months, 
and  balance  in  eighteen  moutlis.  Of  course,  the  last  two  payments  are  covered 
with  a  bank  guarantee.  I  met  Mr.  Vorley,  of  the  Imperial  Chemical  Industries, 
Ltd.,  of  London,  and  he  informed  me  that  he  knew  MacKesson,  who  is  an  officer 
in  the  German  Army,  and  that  their  firm  work  very  closely  with  the  Madsen 
Co.*  Whenever  a  sale  of  machine  guns  are  sold,  they  quote  an  ammunition 
through  them.  He  claims  to  have  closed  a  big  deal  in  Peru  with  this  same 
firm.  On  MacKesson's  instructions,  Dada  quoted  the  Government  £4-8-6  per  M 
for  two  million  7  m/m  cartridges  in  clips.  Now  that  Vorley,  of  the  Imperial 
Chemicals  has  arrived,  he  is  supposed  to  have  given  his  agency  to  anotlier  party 
and  Dada  is  going  to  withdraw  his  quotation,  as  he  claims  to  control  the  situa- 
tion, and  frankly  I  believe  from  the  way  Bara  treats  him  he  certainly  is  in  a 
fine  position.  He  now  wants  to  put  in  a  quotation  for  us ;  that  is,  Remington^ 
for  the  following  specifications : 

2,000.000,  7  m/m  cartridges,  pointed. 

100,000,  45  cal.  Colt  auto. 

lOO.OuO,  3S     •'       " 

100,000,  38     "     S.  &  W.  Special  Klennbore  &  Black. 

I  have  explained  to  Dada  our  position  with  Frenkel,  and  told  him  that  I  could 
do  nothing  until  I  had  written  to  you  on  the  subject.  I  have  suggested  that 
in  case  you  would  not  agree  to  this,  you  might  be  interested  in  permitting  hira 
to  quote  on  Peters.  In  any  event.  Colonel  Bara  says  there  is  no  particular 
hurry  about  quoting,  as  an  order  will  not  be  placed  for  the  next  three  or  four 
months. 

The  Departmenf  of  Renta  handles  the  commercial  business  and  as  onr 
ammunition  is  preferred  in  this  market,  I  can  see  no  I'eason  why  Frenkel  splits 
with  Winchester's  Agency,  except  that  he  follows  the  line  of  least  resistance, 
Dada  feels  certain  that  he  would  have  difficulty,  as  the  line  is  not  known  in 
the  trade.  We  will  have  time  to  t;^lk  the  matter  over  thoroughly  upon  my 
return,  so  there  is  no  use  going  into  further  details. 

*  Pencil  note:  Frank,  is  this  true? — EH. 


2618  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

This  Government  has  a  stock  of  over  3,000  new  Model  1901  7  m/m  Remington 
single  shot  rifles  and  4,000  11  m/m  rifles.  I  learned  that  Huber  liad  securetl 
a  sample  of  these  rifles  and  had  proposed  to  Colonel  Bara  that  if  he  would 
permit  him  to  sell  these  to  Honduras,  he  would  replace  them  with  two  Spanish 
Mauser  rifles  lor  every  three  Remington  rifles  sold.  I  asked  Bara  what  guar- 
antee had  Huber  to  put  up  and  he  told  me  that  it  was  agreed  that  Huber 
would  tirst  deliver  the  Mauser  rifles,  before  they  would  deliver  their  Reming- 
tons. I,  therefore,  suggested  that  if  a  deal  like  that  is  feasible  and  I  could  sell 
the  rifles  to  the  Honduran  Government  at  $25.00  each  and  they  opened  credit  for 
an  amount  equivalent  to  our  price  for  3,000  new  Remington  Enfield  rifles  that 
we  could  handle  the  deal.  In  that  case  he  said,  he  would  deliver  the  rifles  to 
Honduras  the  moment  we  instructed  him  to  do  so,  as  he  would  have  confidence 
in  us  delivering  the  new  rifles  to  him.  Upon  my  return  to  Tegucigalpa,  I  am 
taking  our  rifle  and  if  I  cannot  interest  them,  I  will  propose  the  single  shot 
deal.  I  went  out  to  inspect  a  couple  of  cases  of  these  rifles  and  they  are  in 
perfect  condition,  just  as  they  were  when  shipped  from  the  factory. 

Colonel  Bara  as  well  as  others  who  have  seen  our  rifle  think  that  it  is  too 
heavy  and  want  a  rifle  the  same  size  as  the  Mauser.  The  Mauser  they  showed 
me  weighed  8  and  four-fifth  pounds,  while  ours  weighed  9  and  %  pounds,  that 
is  without  the  bayonet.  The  length  of  the  barrel  of  the  Mauser  measures  23 
inches  and  the  overall  measurement  is  42  inches.  This  is  the  size  rifle  that 
they  wanted  in  Cuba,  Panama,  Costa  Rica,  and  Honduras. 

The  last  order  for  7  m/m  cartridges,  quantity  three  million  was  purchased 
from  a  German  factory  Karlsruher  Industrie  Werke  Berlin.  According  to 
Frankel,  the  price  was  $19.00  CIF  according  to  Dada  it  was  sold  in  gold  and 
they  cost  landed  about  $25.00.    This  price  included  clips  and  tin  lined. 

This  morning  the  Minister  of  War  as^ked  me  to  ship  him  one  model  25A 
standard  rifle  .32  cal.  Winchester  and  500  cartridges  for  same.  Have  suggested 
to  Dada  that  he  place  the  order  thru'  Baltic,  as  I  do  not  know  of  any  other 
way  it  can  be  handled.  Dada  always  has  shipments  coming  through  and  it 
could  be  included. 

Tariffs :  Owing  to  Germany's  action  in  embargoing  coffee  or  only  accepting  as 
much  as  the  particular  country  purchases  from  them,  it  has  caused  quite  some 
excitement  in  this  country,  as  practically  their  entire  crop  of  coffee  is  shipped 
to  Germany.  Salvador  has  therefore  fixed  the  tariff  laws  into  three  categories, 
namely,  a  minimum,  a  medium,  and  a  maximum  tariff.  A  minimum  tariff  is  to 
be  apiilied  to  countries  importing  large  quantities  of  coffee,  a  medium  tariff, 
which  means  15%  higher  than  the  minimum  to  be  applied  to  countries,  whose 
purchases  of  Salvador  coffee  i-epresent  25%  or  more  of  their  exports  to  Salvador. 
A  maximum  of  200%  more  than  the  minimum  tariff  to  countries  who  import 
less  than  25%  of  their  exports  to  Salvador.  This  they  say  means  that  the  Gov- 
ernment will  place  as  many  orders,  as  they  can  with  Germany,  as  they  are  their 
biggest  customer  for  coffee.  This  probably  will  effect  our  ammunition  sales  to 
this  country.  It  will  hit  the  Japanese,  as  they  have  been  dumping  millions  of 
dollars  worth  of  goods  here  and  they  import  nothing  from  Salvador.  This 
tariff,  of  course,  does  not  effect  countries  like  the  U.  S.  A.  with  a  favored-nation 
treaty. 

I  received  your  cable  this  morning,  reading  as  follows : 

"  Cable  itinerary  regards  "  to  which  I  replied : 

"  Guatemala  8th,  Tegucigalpa  15th,  Managua  18th,  San  Jose  21st,  Havanna 
28th." 
and  received  your  cable  this  afternoon,  reading  as  follows : 

"Writing  Panama,  Guatemala,  Tegucigalpa." 

The  National  City  Bank  are  correspondents  of  the  Salvador  Bank,  so  you 
should  be  able  to  get  references  from  them  on  Dada. 

The  Salvador  Government  would  not  give  me  permission  to  take  the  sample 
rifle  to  Guatemala,  however  they  consented  to  my  taking  it  to  the  other  Central 
American  republics,  but  I  had  to  agree  to  return  it,  as  it  was  shipped  to  them 
gratis  and  has  been  entered  on  the  Government  records.  Evidently  they  are  not 
on  very  friendly  terms  with  Guatemala  and  as  soon  as  there  is  a  rumor  that 
Guatemala  has  made  a  purchase,  they  do  likewise.  I  was  quite  surprised  at 
their  army  and  public  oflScials.  They  appear  very  efficient  and  everything  is 
well  run. 

Yours  very  truly, 

(Signed)     F.   S.  Jonas. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2619 

EXHB^IT  No.  972 

[Letter  ><'o.  oS] 

Tegucigalpa,  Honduras,  July  3id,  193Ji. 
Remington  Arms  Co.. 

Bridgeport,  Conn. 
(Attention  of  Mr.  Frank  Monaghan.) 

Dear  Sirs  :  I  spent  five  clays  in  Honduras  and  am  returning  ttiere  on  my 
way  back,  because  tbey  are  true  to  form  and  anytliing  tbey  can  do  today,  they 
invariably  leave  for  next  month,  except  a^-cepting  a  luncheon  or  a  dinner. 

The  president  was  the  first  man  on  whom  I  called  and  he  appeared  most 
pleased  to  see  me,  informing  me  that  the  order  for  the  parts,  in  accordance 
with  your  letter  of  June  7th,  had  been  placed.  He  then  informed  me  that  he 
was  very  much  interested  in  placing  an  order  for  single-shot,  seven-millimeter 
rifle?,  and  a  further  order  for  ammunition  and  instructed,  me  to  see  the 
minister  of  war.  Dr.  Gnlvez.  I  wasted  two  days  before  I  could  reach  him,  as 
he  has  been  Icept  busy  on  relief  work,  due  to  the  flood. 

After  I  finally  did  meet  this  man,  he  told  me  that  the  crcler  hud  not  as  yet 
been  placed,  as  they  had  calculated  on  a  sum,  half  of  the  amount  of  which  we 
]iad  advised  it  would  cost.  After  several  conferences  \\  ith  his  generals,  he 
told  me  he  would  arrange  to  open  n  credit  in  a  few  days.  The  final  result  was 
that  he  would  do  so  upon  my  return  from  Guatemala  and  he  would  have 
everything  ready. 

I  tried  to  interest  them  in  our  new  r  fle.  but  they  insisted  that  I  quote  them 
ftn  a  single  shot  7  m/m.  similar  model  1901  you  sold  them.  They  have,  how- 
ever, asked  me  l)ring  them  the  sample  repeating  rifle  which  we  have  in  Sal- 
vador, which  I  intend  to  do  upon  my  return.  If  I  recall  I  think  you  told  me 
that  tb.e  single-shot  rifle  would  cost  about  .$25.00  each,  so  I  quoted  them 
accordingly,  so  am  herewith  attaching  copy  of  a  letter  they  requested  me  to 
submit.  They  speak  of  buying  ten  thousand  rifles,  but  wnnted  me  to  quote  on 
one  thousand.  I  told  them  that  I  would  do  so,  but  I  did  not  think  that  you 
would  accept  an  order  for  le.ss  than  three  thousand.  You  will  note  that  I 
have  not  quoted  a  c.i.f.  price  on  the  rifles,  as  I  do  not  know  whether  you  can 
accept  the  business,  if  we  get  it  at  that  price.  Please  write  me  by  air  mail  to 
Tegucigalpa,  quoting  me  firm  prices  on  all  the  articles  I  hnve  quoted. 

They  are  very  much  interested  in  pu'-chasing  a  fifty  caliber  Colt  machine 
gun.  I  was  not  sure  of  the  price,  so  quoted  approximately  ,$1,500.00.  Please 
ask  them  to  send  me  parti cuhirs  and  also  prices  on  their  seven  m/m  auto 
rifles.     They  want  to  standardize  their  ammunition  to  this  caliber  only. 

I  am  told  that  they  have  no  money,  and  then  again  it  is  said  for  army 
equipment.  someliOAv  or  otiier,  they  nre  always  able  to  raise  the  money.  I 
have  not  learned  of  any  large  purchases  they  have  made,  except  150  re- 
conditioned 7  m/m  Maxims,  which  were  purchased  in  Europe. 

It  is  rumored  that  the  only  way  that  this  president  can  hold  his  job  Is 
through  being  well  pi'pp;ired,  so  I  have  hopes  of  the  various  rainbows  coming 
through. 

I  expect  to  be  back  in  Tegucigalpa  inside  of  twelve  to  fourteen  days. 

With  reference  to  commei-cial  business,  as  you  know  mnrs'hal  law  prevails, 
so  nothing  is  being  done.  They  expect  to  lift  it  shortly  and  I  think  from  the 
way  they  talk,  it  vill  put  under  Govei'nment  control  and  probably  sell  to  one 
distributor  for  th;^  entire  country. 

I  therefore  Ionised  around  for  a  possible  distributor  and  would  recommend 
the  firm  of  Walter  Bros.  They  are  an  English  outfit,  considerable  capital,  and 
have  been  established  in  Honduras  for  the  past  twenty  years.  They  have 
branches  in  San  Pedro  on  the  coast  and  their  head  office  is  in  Tegucigalpa. 
They  represeiit  various  American  and  English  firms,  carry  stocks  and  also  take 
indent  ordei's  on  commis.sion.  I  suggested  the  possibility  of  taking  on  the 
Remington  line  and  they  appeared  quite  interested,  if  tliey  are  able  to  work 
it  with  the  Government.  I  think  they  have  a  very  good  chance  as  they  do 
considerable  Government  business,  as  they  represent  the  American  Bank  Note 
Company  and  up  to  recently  the  General  Motors.  They  have  now  switched 
to  the  Reo  line.  In  a  conversation  with  the  subsecretary  of  state,  Gen'l  Pinedo, 
I  asked  him  to  advise  me  who  would  be  a  good  agent  and  he  immediately 
suggested  Walter  Bros.     Will  give  you  full  details  upon  my  return. 

The  president  told  me  that  they  did  not  want  to  work  thru  an  agent  on 
their  Government  business,  but  suggested  if  we  decided  to  do  so,  he  would  like 


2620  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

to  recommend  his  nephew-in-law,  Mr.  Grave  de  Peralta.  I  have  evaded  this, 
so  as  to  leave  us  in  a  positioa  in  case  of  competition,  but  I  called  on  Mr. 
Peralta  and  told  him  that  upon  my  return,  we  might  be  able  to  do  something 
with  the  Peters  line. 

They  are  not  in  the  market  at  present  for  any  revolver  ammunition,  as  some 
was  purchased  from  Peters,  thru  whom  I  was  unable  to  find  out. 

I  did  not  write  to  Zaiiioii-a  Henriquez  cancelling;  the  agency  as  the  firm 
has  failed  and  I  felt  that  if  I  did  write  to  them  they  may  think  there  is 
some  pending  business  and  want  to  horn  in. 

I  received  your  letter  of  21st  ulto.  addressed  to  Tegucigalpa  and  note  your 
remarks  regarding  Mexico.  I  am  glad  you  feel  that  way,  as  I  think  it  is 
absolutely  necessary  that  I  return  by  the  same  route  and  pick  up  the  business 
that  has  been  promised  to  me.  I  note  in  this  morning's  paper  that  the  Govt. 
in  Washington  has  placed  an  embargo  on  arms  to  Cuba,  so  I  am  wondering 
what  it  will  all  mean  eventually.  Don't  they  realize  that  Europe  will  continue 
to  ship  and  they  will  get  all  of  the  business? 
Yours  very  truly, 

(Signed)      F.   S.  Jonas. 

P.  S. — Have  .iu-st  arrived  in  Salvador.  Met  Gomez  for  a  few  minutes.  He 
is  having  dinner  with  me  tonight.  No  time  for  further  news  as  there  is 
only  a  minute  to  catch  the  plane. 


BxHiiiiT  No.  973 
["A"] 

Articles  of  agreement  eJitered  into  on  the  I'i '  day  of  August,  A.  D.  1934, 
between  the  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Honduras,  acting  through  its  repre- 
sentative. Dr.  I\onan  Bogran,  Consul  General  at  New  York,  hereinafter  referred 
to  as  the  "  Government  ".  and  Remington  Arms  Company,  Inc.,  a  corporation  of 
the  Stati  of  Delaware,  United  States  of  America,  liereinafter  referred  to  as 
Remington. 

Witnessetli: 

"Whereas  Remington  is  a  manufacturer  of  and  dealer  in  arms  and  ammimi- 
tion  of  the  type  and  kind  hereafter  referred  to  and. 

Whereas  the  Government  desires  to  purchase  said  arms  and  ammunition  from 
Remington  in  the  amount,  at  the  prices  and  upon  the  terms  and  conditions 
hereafter  set  forth, 

Now,  therefore,  the  Government  and  Remington  have  agreed  and  by  these 
presents  do  agree  with  each  other  as  follows: 

First.  Remington  agrees  to  sell  and  deliver  to  the  Government,  and  the 
Government  agrees  to  purchase  and  accept  from  Remington,  the  following  arms 
and  ammunition  at  the  prices  set  oposite  each  item  thereof  and  upon  the  terms 
and  conditions  hereinafter  set  forth : 

3,000  "  Remington  Enfield  "  rifles.  Model  1934,  caliber  7  m/m, 
without  bayonets,  but  with  sling  straps.  $26.00  per  ritle.  c.  i.  f. 
Amapala,  total  price $78,  000.  00 

1,000,000  cartridges  caliber  ^  7  m/m   "  Kleanbore   Smokeless ". 

$23.00  per  thousand,  c.  i.  f.  Amapala,  total  price 23,000.00 

.50,000   cartridges   clips    7   m/m    $10.00   per    thousand,    c.    i.    f. 

Amapala,  total  price .lOO.  00 

200,000  cartridges,  45-caliber  Colt  automatic  "  Kleanbore  Smoke- 
less "  for  Thompson  machine  guns,  $16.00  per  thousand,  c.  i.  f. 
Amapala,  total   price 3,  200.  00 

50  Thompson  machine  guns,  21-A,  $140.00  each,  f.  o.  b.  New 

York,  total  price 7,000.00 

$111,  700.  00 

Second.  In  addition  to  the  price  of  t!ie  arms  and  ammunition  referred  to  in 
the  price  of  the  arms  and  ammunition  referred  to  in  the  last  preceding  para- 
graph, the  GovernnKHit  shall  pay  to  Remington  the  amount  of  any  consular  taxes 
or  other  charges  which  may  be  paid  by  Remington  in  order  to  accomplish  de- 
livery: it  being  understood  and  agreed  that  with  the  exception  of  the  Thompson 

*  Pencil  note. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2621 

machine  guns,  the  above  prices  include  cost,  insurance,  and  freight,  and  that 
with  respect  to  said  Thompson  macliine  guns,  the  Government  shall  pay  to 
Remington  all  freight  and  insurance  charges  arising  out  of  the  shipment  of 
said  guns  from  New  York  to  Amapala. 

Third.  At  or  before  the  execution  of  this  agreement,  the  Government  shall 
establish  an  irrevocable  credit  in  favor  of  Remington  v?ith  the  National  City 
Bank  of  Nevv'  I'ork  in  an  amount  sufficient  lo  cover  the  price  of  said  arms  and 
ammunition,  together  with  all  costs  and  charges  arising  out  of  the  shipment  of 
the  same ;  it  being  estimated  that  said  costs  and  charges  shall  be  approximately 
five  thousand  dollars  ($5,000.00),  and  it  is  understood  and  agreed  that  the  total 
amount  of  sucii  credit,  upon  the  execution  of  this  agreement,  shall  be  one  hun- 
dred and  sixteen  thousand  seven  hundred  dollars  ($116,700.00). 

Fourth.  As  and  when  shipments  are  made  by  Remington,  pursuant  to  the 
terms  and  conditions  of  this  agreement,  Remingion  shall  present  to  tlie  Na- 
tional City  Bank  of  New  York  the  following  documents  covering  each  shipment: 

Three  copies  of  the  bills  of  lading. 

Consular  invoice. 

Invoices  for  the  merchandise  in  triplicate,  including  freight,  insui-ance, 

and  consular  charges. 
^  Certificate  of  insurance. 

and  upon  presentation  of  the  foregoing  documents  with  respect  to  any  ship- 
ment, the  said  National  City  Bank  shall  be  and  it  is  hereby  duly  authorized  to 
pay  to  Remington  the  amount  of  such  invoices  covering  the  price  of  the 
merchandise,  freight,  insurance,  and  consular  charges  from  the  credit  above 
referi'ed  to. 

Fifth.  Remington  agrees  that  all  invoices  covering  shipments  hereunder  shall 
show  the  value  of  such  shipments,  f.  o.  b.  New  York,  and  that  separate  invoices 
shall  be  rendered  showing  the  cost  of  insurance,  freight,  and  consular  charges. 

Sixth.  Shipments  of  the  arms  and  ammunition  referred  to  in  this  agreement 
shall  be  made  by  Remington  from  New  York  as  follows : 

Rifles:  500  within  four  months,  and  approximately  1,000  each  month 
thereafter. 

Cartridges,  7  m/m :  Approximately  200,000  \  it  bin  two  weeks,  and  approxi- 
mately 200,000  each  week  thereafter. 

Cartridges.  45-caliber  Colt  automatic :  200,000  within  two  weeks. 

Cartridge  clips  :  50,000  within  three  weeks. 

Thompson  machine  guns  within  two  weeks. 

Seventh.  The  foregoing  arms  and  ammunition  shall  be  consigned  by  Reming- 
ington  to  the  Ministerio  de  Guerra,  Marina,  y  Aviaciou,  and  the  shipping  cases 
containing  the  same  shall  be  marked  as  follows  : 

Ministerio  db  Guerra,  Marina,  y  Aviacton 
TEGUOiGArj>A  via  Amapala 

It  being  understood  further  that  the  insurance  to  be  procured  by  Remington 
shall  cover  and  include  all  risks  to  Amapala,  Honduras. 

Eighth.  It  is  the  intention  hereof,  and  the  Government  agrees,  that  notwith- 
standing the  amount  of  the  credit  hereinabove  referred  to,  to  be  placed  in  the 
National  City  Bank  of  New  York  in  favor  of  Remington,  Remington  shall  be 
reimbursed  by  the  Government  and  paid  any  amount  by  which  said  credit  shall 
be  insufficient  to  cover  any  lawful  charges  arising  out  of  the  shipment  of  said 
arms  and  ammunition  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  this  agreement. 

In  witness  whereof  the  Government,  by  Dr.  Ronan  Bogram,  Consul  General 
at  New  York,  and  Remington,  by  its  duly  authorized  representative,  have  caused 
this  agreement  to  be  executed  on  the  16  *  day  of  August,  A.  D.  1934. 

Government  of  the  Republic  of  Honduras, 

By . 

Remington  Arms  Company,  Inc., 

By ,  *  Vice  President. 

Attest : 


*  Pencil  note. 


2622  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Exhibit  No.  974 

["A"] 

Luis  G.  Feknandeiz, 
Remington  Arms  Co.,  Inc.,  'Netc  York  City,  June  10,  1931. 

29  Wan  en  Street,  New  York  City. 
(Attention  Mr.  Geo.  Eugge.) 
Gentlemen:  Pursuant  to  the  conversation  I  had  with  you  upon  my  arrival 
to  New  York  two  weeks  ago,  I  wish  to  infoiin  you  tliat  the  extra  five  percent 
charged  to  take  care  of  certain  party  in  Tegucigalpa,  as  agreed  by  the  writer, 
part  of  the  total  amount  of  $740.25  has  already  been  paid  up  to  Mr.  Francisco 
Argueta,  of  San  Salvador.  This  Mr.  Argueta  received  instructions  to  receive 
this  amount  from  Coronel  Villanueva,  or  the  party  who  was  interested  in 
Tegucigalpa.  I  effected  a  payment  of  $800.00  to  Mr.  Argueta  in  San  Salvador, 
when  you  cabled  me  the  $500.00.  Before  I  left  San  Salvador  I  handed  Mr. 
Argueta  the  amount  of  $1.50.00,  making  it  a  total  of  $450.00.  Two  days  ago 
I  received  the  attached  cable  from  Mr.  Francisco  Argueta  (Chico),  as  every- 
body nickname  him,  requesting  of  me  to  turn  over  some  funds  to  a  friend 
of  his  here  in  New  York.  Today  I  will  hand  this  party  here  in  New  York  the 
sum  of  $75.00 ;  and,  as  you  have  arranged  that  this  amount  be  turned  over  to 
us,  I  wish  to  report  that  as  soon  as  the  balance  of  the  amount  is  turned  over 
to  me,  I  will  remit  to  Mr.  Francisco  Argueta  a  bank's  check  for  the  balance 
of  $215.25,  thus  completing  this  transaction. 

I  further  state  that  this  is  my  understanding,  that  Mr.  Argueta  is  a  relative 
of,  residing  in  San  Salvador,^  of  the  party  in  Tegucigalpa,  Honduras. 
Yours  very  truly, 

L.  G.  Fkbnandez. 

Confirm  $500  cabled  Fernandez,  San  Salvador,  Apr.  20/31. 

240  25 

•  ■„'       paid  by  check  to  his  order  6/11/31. 

I  received  the  amount  of  $740.25  in  payments  as  noted  herein. 

L.  G.  Fernandez. 


Exhibit  No.  975 

"A"     DR 

Mr.  S.  NoRVELL,  President,  Dkcembeb  22,  1928. 

25  Broadnay: 

We  have  recently  had  an  example  of  how  the  U.S.  Department  of  State  at 
Washington,  D.C.,  can  help  us. 

In  1927  we  had  some  nice  business  fi-om  the  Dominican  Republic  for  30/06 
Springfield  cartridges,  but  tliis  year  those  in  charge  of  the  purchasing  for  that 
Government  made  arrangements  with  a  German  concern  to  purchase  .303 
British  rifles  and  cartridges  for  same.  The  rifles  and  cartridges  were  supposed 
to  be  new,  and  a  unit  price  was  set  of  $77.00  for  each  rifle,  with  a  thousand 
cartridges.  Our  agent  viewed  the  sample  rifle,  gave  us  the  serial  number,  and 
we  had  our  London  office  investigate.  It  was  found  the  rifles  were  all  second- 
hand war  material  and  the  cartridgesi  were  quite  old,  being  purchased  in  Great 
Britain  by  tlie  German  concern  at  $12.00  each  for  the  rifles  and  about  the  same 
price  per  thousand  for  the  cartridges.  Of  course,  the  idea  was  to  leave  a  big 
margin  of  graft  for  the  Government  people. 

When  we  approached  the  State  Department  they  admitted  knowing  something 
of  the  deal,  but  were  glad  to  get  the  additional  information  we  had  obtained. 
They  sent  a  copy  of  our  letter,  giving  the  full  facts  to  our  Minister  at  Santo 
Domingo.  They  are  willing  to  shut  their  eyes  to  small  graft  on  such  trans- 
actions in  Latin  American  countries,  but  they  felt  this  was  going  too  far, 
especially  asi  the  Dominican  Republic  still  has  a  lot  of  unsettled  American 
claims.  Our  agent,  who  knows  nothing  of  our  dealings  with  the  State  Depart- 
ment, which  have  to  be  strictly  confidential,  now  reports  the  President  of  the 
Dominican  Republic  called  for  an  investigation,  with  tlie  result  the  contract  for 
the  .303  rifies  and  cartridges  has  been  canceled,  and  the  first  installment  is  to 
be  shipped  back.  Our  chances  of  regaining  the  business  are,  therefore,  very 
bright,  for  the  President  has  issued  an  order  that  in  future  all  purchases  are 
to  be  made  direct  from  manufacturers. 

(Signed)     Monaghan. 

rjM  N 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2623 

("Exhibit  No.  976"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2540.) 


Exhibit  No.  977 

[Representante  de  Manutactureros] 

Lots  E.  Nicolas, 
Caixb  Colon  No.  38,  Apartado  No.  231, 
Santo  Domingo,  Republica  Dominicana,  June  lltli,  1930. 
Cables  Nicolas,  Todos  los  Cotiges,  Codiges  Privados,  Telefono  No.  1262. 
T§E  Remington  Arms  Co.,  Inc., 

29  Wairen  Street,  New  York  City,  U.  S.  A. 

Dear  Sirs:  I  have  the  pleasure  to  acknowledge  receipt  of  your  kind  letter 
dated  June  10th,  contents  of  which  have  been  duly  noted.  I  am  glad  that  the 
situation  has  been  cleared  to  your  satisfaction  and  that  of  all  concerned. 

As  per  my  letter  of  last  mail,  which  you  will  surely  receive  together  with 
this  mail,  as  it  could  not  be  placed  in  the  mails  until  after  the  steamer  had  left, 
you  will  be  advised  that  the  permit  situation  is  the  same,  maybe  worse  at 
present,  because  the  Army  is  now  after  a  few  generals  that  took  the  mountains 
against  the  actual  Government.  No  permits  will  be  issued  to  anybody  while 
peace  and  tranquility  are  unstable. 

The  reason  for  my  mail  not  getting  the  last  boat  was  that  a  few  minutes  after 
it  was  written  I  was  induced  to  hide  by  some  friends  who  knew  in  advance  that 
the  order  to  imprison  me  had  been  given  by  Goverument  officials.  On  Wednesday 
noon,  after  communicating  with  the  general,  I  gave  myself  up  and  was  locked 
in  Columbus  place  at  the  Torre  del  Homenajo  for  48  hours,  after  which  I  was 
released.  The  reason  for  my  prosecution  has  been  given  as  "  For  being  a  friend 
of  Dr.  Morales  and  selling  arms  and  ammunition  to  the  revolution."  This  charge 
was  made  by  some  competitors  intei'ested  in  wiping  me  out  of  the  map  and 
taking  my  agencies  away,  both  of  which  things  they  will  be  unable  to  do. 

I  took  advantage  of  this  opportunity  to  celebrate  my  interview,  which  I  re- 
ported in  my  last  letter  to  you,  with  General  Trujillo,  who  understood  my  posi- 
tion and  assured  me  that  nothing  will  happen  to  me  in  the  future,  and  that  as 
soon  as  conditions  in  the  country  warranted  the  extension  of  permits  they  will 
be  granted,  and  that  meanwhile  no  permits  will  be  issued  to  anybody.  I  also 
informed  him  that  I  am  no  politician,  and  that  my  business  was  to  work  and 
sell  everybody  that  came  in  power,  and  that  he  will  find  me  ready  to  cooperate 
with  him  to  that  end. 

I  understand  that  conditions  will  S(ym  be  normal  and  that  our  activities  will 
be  resumed.    Meanwhile  I  will  be  in  my  post,  doing  everything  possible  to  com- 
plete the  transactions  now  pending.    With  kind  regards  to  all,  I  remain, 
Yours  sincerely, 

Ltjis  E.  Nicolas. 


Exhibit  No.  978 

"A"  DR 
Remington  Arms  Compant,  Inc., 

Brill ffeport,  June  10.  1932. 
Mr.  Luis  E.  Nicolas, 

Apartado  231,  Santo  Domingo,  D.  R. 
Delus  Sib:  We  acknowledge  your  letter  of  June  1  in  respect  to  Mr.  Naramore 
and  his  scheme  of  reloading  cartridges  for  the  Government.    This  subject  was 
also  covered  by  part  of  one  of  your  letters  of  May  31. 

You  ask  thtit  we  make  up  a  detailed  comparison  of  the  cost  of  i-eloading  car- 
tridges as  against  purchasing  the  fully  loaded  cartridges.  This  is  a  rather 
difficult  thing  to  do  and  give  the  proper  effect  to  all  factors  which  go  into  reload- 
ing cartridges.  Even  after  you  get  through  with  such  a  comparison,  it  is  far 
from  giving  a  true  picture,  for  the  mere  comparative  costs  do  not  reflect  the  loss 
sustained  in  ammunition  going  bad  when  reloaded  by  people  outside  the  factory. 
Then,  of  the  gi-eatest  importance  is  the  element  of  safety.  Without  the  proper 
ballistic  instruments  for  measuring  breech  pressure,  velocity,  etc.,  one  can  never 
be  certain  the  ammunition  is  not  dangerous  to  use. 


2624  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

We  had  an  example  recently  in  Peru  of  someone  reloading  cartridges  which 
would  have  a  salutary  effect  in  warning  against  tliis  method.  The  cartridges 
which  were  reloaded  in  Peru  were  sent  to  us  for  testing,  and  the  first  thing  we 
did  was  to  try  them  for  breech  pressures.  We  found  tliey  developed  a  breech 
pressure  of  58,000  pounds  to  the  square  inch,  whereas  the  maximum  we  would 
allow  in  our  manufacture  is  48,000  pounds  to  the  square  inch.  This  increased 
pressure  was  sufficient  to  endanger  the  life  of  the  shooter.  When  loading  powder 
one  can  never  tell  by  merely  weighing  or  measuring  the  powder  the  pressure  it 
will  develop,  and  the  only  way  this  can  be  determined  is  through  the  use  of 
chronographs  and  pressure  guns.  Such  ballistic  equipment,  as  you  well  know, 
is  very  expensive  and  requires  the  services  of  a  real  ballistic  engineer.  Such  a 
man  commands  a  very  high  salary.  This  factor  alone  would  increase  the  cost  of 
reloading  cartridges  in  Santo  Domingo  to  such  an  extent  as  to  make  the  reloaded 
product  more  expensive  than  to  purchase  from  us. 

There  is  another  very  important  factor  in  reloading  cartridges  and  that  is 
such  cartridges  cannot  be  stored  for  an  indefinite  period  and  expected  to  be 
capable  of  use.  Reloading  machinery  does  not  properly  seal  the  bullet  in  the 
shell  or  seat  the  primer  in  such  a  way  as  to  prevent  moisture,  oil,  or  other  ele- 
ments attacking  the  powder  or  priming  mixture.  When  loaded  at  the  factory, 
these  precautions  are  always  watched  closely.  Take,  for  example,  our  revolver 
and  pistol  cartridges :  As  you  know,  these  are  oilproofed  by  shellacking  the 
primer  and  using  asphaltum  in  the  mouth  of  the  shell  to  insure  against  oil  from 
the  arm  attacking  the  powder  or  priming  mixture.  This  cannot  be  done  when 
cartridges  are  reloaded. 

There  are  two  very  important  elements  in  primers  for  reloading  purposes. 
They  have  to  be  both  nonmercuric  and  noncorrosive.  Our  primers  are  both  non- 
mercuric  and  noncorrosive.  Our  competitors,  Winchester,  supply  a  nonmercuric 
and  also  a  noncorrosive  primer,  but  they  have  no  one  primer  which  embodies 
both  these  necessary  features.  Their  priming  mixture  is  not  comparable  with 
our  Kleanbore  priming,  and,  in  fact,  they  have  found  it  necessary  in  some  of 
their  primers  to  increase  the  size  because  their  mixture  was  not  as  effective 
as  ours,  requiring  that  they  load  a  greater  amount  of  priming  mixture  in  the 
primer. 

When  all  is  said  and  done,  there  is  only  one  real  primer  in  this  market  and 
that  is  the  Kleanbore  primer,  of  which  fact  you  are  well  aware.  The  tests  we 
make  to  insure  our  cartridges  being  able  to  withstand  heat  and  humidity  for  a 
great  period  of  time  have  clearly  proved  the  secret  of  the  success  of  our  product 
is  that  our  Kleanbore  primer  and  priming  mixture  are  superior  in  every  respect 
to  the  product  of  our  competitors.  As  you  know,  Kleanbore  priming  is  patented 
and  cannot  be  duplicated. 

We  should  be  very  glad  to  have  you  watch  this  matter  of  reloading  very 
closely,  advising  us  what  Mr.  Naramore  did  during  his  stay  in  Santo  Domingo. 
We  imagine  you  are  not  going  to  find  it  very  difficult  to  convince  the  Govern- 
ment they  are  adopting  a  very  dangerous  policy  in  considering  the  reloading  of 
ammunition. 

It  is  rather  interesting  to  learn  from  your  letter  that  Mr.  Naramore  is  wear- 
ing the  uniform  of  a  captain  of  the  United  States  Army.  This,  to  say  the  least, 
is  a  serious  breach  of  etiquette  and  perhaps  a  more  serious  charge  could  be 
brought.  It  is  our  understanding  an  officer  of  the  Army  is  not  supposed  to  wear 
the  uniform  except  on  active  duty  or  state  occasions.  Certainly  Mr.  Naramore 
is  not  entitled  to  wear  the  uniform  when  representing  the  Lyman  Gunsight 
Corporations,  which  was  the  case  when  he  was  in  Santo  Domingo. 

With  kindest  regards, 
Yours  very  truly, 

FJMN 


Manager  Foreign  Department. 


Exhibit  No.  979 

"A" 
OcTOBEK  27,  1932. 
Mr.  Roger  L.  Bbaokein, 

Export  Manager  Millers  Falls  Company, 

Greenfield,  Mass. 
Dear  Roge3i:  Geo.  Rugge  has  sent  me  from  20  Wan-en  Street  your  letter  of 
October  25.     I  have  thought  of  you  mauy  times,  especially  since  we  had  to  move 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2625 

to  Bridgeport,  for  I  felt  we  could  sympathize  with  one  another.     Why  don't  you 
stop  off  some  time  on  your  way  to  the  big  town? 

I  am  very  glad  to  confirm  the  good  news  Restrepo  sent  you.  He  is  certainly 
doing  a  wonderful  job  for  us,  and  the  way  he  is  taking  hold  of  things  the  last  few 
months  has  simply  been  a  revelation  to  me.  I  don't  think  I  ever  had  a  man  in 
the  foreign  field  who  kept  us  so  informed  of  the  complete  picture  of  things  as 
they  were  happening.  Yes,  indeed,  you  were  due  for  thanks  in  having  trained 
him  and  recommended  him  to  us. 

AVe  had  some  unfortunate  publicity  in  connection  with  the  Colombian  order, 
and  for  that  reason  we  are  now  doing  mighty  little  talking  about  it,  so  we  ask 
you  to  hold  it  confidential. 
Kindest  regards. 
Yours  sincerely, 

Remington  Arms  Company,  Inc., 
f.  j.  monaghan, 

Manager  Foreign  Dept. 
F.JMN 


("Exhibit  No.  980"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2544.) 


Exhibit  No.  981 

[Air    mail- — Confidential] 

HEaiNAN  Restkepo, 
Bogota,  Heptemher  10th,  1932. 
Remington  Arms  Company,  Inc., 

Bridgeport,  Conn.,  U.S.A. 
(Atten.  Mr.  F.  J.  Monaghan.) 

Dear  Sirs  :  I  wish  to  confirm  my  cable  dated  the  7th  inst.  requesting  your 
quotation  on  2  million  seven  milimeter  mauser  cartridges  for  the  Colombian 
Government.  In  this  sams  cable  I  informed  you  that  European  competition  is 
of  $22.00  per  thousand. 

In  doe  course  I  received  your  cable  reply  dated  the  8th  inst.  informing  me 
to  meet  the  European  mauser  price. 

Coronel  Carlos  Padilla,  about  whom  I  wrote  you  sometime  ago,  is  a  very 
close  friend  of  the  writer,  as  well  as  his  family.  They  live  next  door  to 
my  home.  This  gentleman  occupies  now  a  high  position  in  the  Colombian 
Army  and  belongs  to  the  Estado  Mayor  del  Ejercito.  In  the  strictest  confidence 
Coronel  Padilla  informed  me  the  Government  wants  to  buy  at  the  present 
lime  2  million  cartridges  and  inforihed  me  about  the  quotation  they  have 
from  Switzerland  of  $22.00.  These  cartridges  are  intended  for  part  of  the 
Army  that  is  being  sent  to  Puerto  Leticia  on  the  Amazon  River,  our  frontier 
with  Peru — Puerto  Leticia  has  just  been  taken  by  Peruvian  insurgents  but  not 
in  any  way  connected  with  the  Government  of  Peru  with  whom  this  Govern- 
ment enjoys  cordial  relations.  This  matter  is  being  treated  in  the  Colombian 
and  Peruvian  Congress  in  secret  conferences.  However,  this  Government  is 
taking  the  necessary  measures  in  order  to  protect  our  national  integrity. 

Coronel  Padilla  put  me  in  contact  with  Coronel  Adelmo  A.  Ruiz,  Chief  of  the 
Armament  and  Ammunition  Dept.  of  the  War  Dept.  with  whom  I  had  a  very 
long  talk  relative  to  your  products,  quality,  guaranty,  etc.  Coronel  Ruiz  is 
having  today  a  conference  with  the  Minister  of  War  relative  to  this  purchase 
and  will  give  me  a  definite  answer  next  Monday  morning.  Coronel  Ruiz  has 
also  asked  me  to  obtain  your  quotations  in  the  following  material  for  the 
Curtiss  aeroplanes  the  Government  bought  sometime  ago : 

90,000  metal  clips  for  aircraft  machine  guns  (red). 

90,000  Eslavones  metalicos  para  ametralladoras  Aereas. 

Quotations  on  different  types  of  bombs  for  same  aeroplanes. 

I  do  not  know  if  you  manufacture  the  just-mentioned  material,  and  hope 
you  will  be  able  to  give  me  this  information. 

Coronel  Padilla  is  giving  me  his  full  support  in  order  to  get  the  business 
and  is  keeping  me  confidentially  informed  of  this  matter.  Indirectly,  I  under- 
stand he  wants  a  commission ;  however,  I  may  be  wrong  and  am  keeping  a  very 
diplomatic  attitude  until  further  developments  This  gentleman  also  informs 
me  he  is  doing  his  best  in  order  to  induce  this  Government  to  buy  40  million 
cartridges. 


2626  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

At  this  moment  I  cannot  give  you  any  furtlier  information,  but  will  do  so 
after  my  interview  next  Monday.  Anyway,  you  can  rest  assured  that  I  am 
doing  my  utmost  to  get  this  business  and  that  my  connections  are  of  the  best. 
After  you  take  note  of  the  contents  of  this  letter,  which  you  will  treat  in  a 
most  confidential  way,  kindly  destroy  same,  as  this  request  was  made  to 
the  writer  by  the  War  Dept. 
Cordially  yours, 

(Signed)     Hebnan  Restbepo. 


Exhibit  No.  982 

NOVEMBEB   12.   1930. 

Mr.  Herman  Restbepo, 

Bogota,  Colombia: 

We  duly  received  your  letter  of  October  16th,  and  it  was  quite  encouraging 
to  learn  that  Genl.  Angel  wishes  prices  on  7  m/m  pointed  cartridges,  on  which 
action  will  be  taken  toward  the  end  of  this  year. 

We  are  well  acquainled  with  the  7  m/m  Mauser  pointed  cartridge  which  the 
Colombian  Government  requires,  as  we  operate  very  closely  with  the  du  Pont 
Company,  who  had  their  Government  business  representative  visit  the  cartridge 
factory  in  Bogota  two  years  ago  (Mr.  N.  E.  Bates),  and  consequently  we  are 
in  a  position  to  meet  the  requirements  of  the  Government  in  al!  ballistic  details. 
You  mentioned  an  initial  velocity  of  S.50  meters,  which  we  can  meet,  but,  of 
course,  there  is  always  a  tolerance,  and  we  presume  it  will  be  approximately 
plus  or  minus  10  meters. 

The  powder  we  would  supply  would  be  du  Pont  I.M.R.  powder,  which  the 
Government  is  familiar  with.  The  primer  would  be  our  Kleanbore  type,  which 
eliminates  rusting,  pittiug,  and  corrosion  of  the  rifle  bore,  and  this  is  an  advan- 
tage which  the  Government  will  readily  recognize  as  compared  with  the  old 
types.  We  shall  be  glad  to  supply  a  bullet  jacket  of  either  cupro  nickel  or 
gilding  metal,  whichever  is  preferred,  and  we  presume  it  will  be  the  latter. 

The  cartridges  will  be  packed  2—  to  'he  carton  and  10,000  cartridges  to  the 
wooden  case,  each  such  case  to  be  lined  with  tar  paper.  However,  if  the  Co- 
lombian Government  desired,  we  would  supply  tin-lined  cases,  for  which  there 
would  be  an  extra  charge  of  75t*  per  thousand  in  addition  to  the  prices  men- 
tioned hereafter. 

All  manufacture  and  inspection  would  l»o  in  accordance  with  the  Remington 
stand;,  rds. 

Now  we  come  to  th»'  question  of  price.  The  prices  we  are  going  to  mention 
are  net  to  us  F.A.S.  New  York;  and  if  any  coniniissions  have  to  be  paid  to 
intermediaries  in  Bogota  whom  you  might  find  would  be  helpful  in  obtaining 
this  business,  the  price  will  have  to  be  increased  by  the  amount  of  such  com- 
missions. Furthermore,  the  prices  are  based  on  present  market  prices  of  such 
materials  as  lead  and  copper :  and  in  the  event  of  any  violent  fluctuation  in 
such  prices,  our  price  would  have  to  be  changed  accordingly.  It  i?  miehty  diflS- 
cult  to  sit  here  in  New  York  and  name  a  price  schedule  without  knowing  the 
full  picture  in  Bogota,  but  we  shall  have  to  give  you  some  basis  on  which  to 
work  and  then  let  you  use  your  best  .ludgment  in  submitting  them. 

Our  price  net  to  us  f.o.b.  New  York  for  1,000.000  cartridges  is  $27.00  per 
thousand;  .$26,.50  per  thousand  for  2,000.000;  $26.00  per  thousand  for  3.000.000. 
As  we  stated  above,  there  will  be  an  additional  charge  of  750  per  thousand 
if  tin  lining  is  required. 

Deliveries  would  be  300,000  two  weeks  after  receipt  of  order,  200,000  three 
weeks  following,  and  200,000  weekly  thereafter.  These  deliveries  would  be  in- 
creased somewhat  in  the  event  of  an  order  for  3.000,000  being  placed.  The 
initial  delivery  of  300,000  in  two  weeks  would  be  dependent  on  business  that 
may  come  to  us  in  the  meantime  from  other  markets,  but  in  any  event  we 
would  commence  deliveries  of  2(X),000  at  least  five  weeks  after  receipt  of  order 
with  the  same  quantity  weekly  thereaftei-. 

You  mentioned  the  government  will  probably  receive  quotations  from  <ither 
manufacturers  in  Europe  and  here,  and  certainly  we  do  not  want  to  lose  this 
business  because  of  some  small  difference  in  price  and  we  are  relying  on  you  to 
learn  of  bona  fide  quotations  made  by  others  to  the  end  that  we  will  be  afforded 
an  opportunity  of  making  any  slight  adjustment  that  may  be  necessary  to 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2627 

assure  the  busiuess  reaching  ns.  So  far  as  American  manufacturers  are  con- 
cerned, we  are  quite  sure  the  prices  nientioned  will  he  the  lowest,  but  this 
may  not  he  entirely  true  with  European  competition.  However,  in  the  latter 
case  you  know  European  manufacturers  promise  many  things  which  tliey  do 
not  fulfill,  both  in  deliveries  and  quality,  and  you  can  stress  these  points. 

You  will  probably  desii-e  to  bring  every  influence  you  can  to  bear  to  obtain 
this  business  for  us,  and  as  a  suggestion  we  should  like  to  mention  that  in  some 
instances  we  have  found  it  advisable  to  diplomatically  ask  the  Minister  of 
War  or  the  person  who  will  have  the  final  say  in  placing  the  order,  who  he 
would  like  to  have  us  work  with  as  our  agent.  In  other  words,  who  is  the 
intermediary  to  see  and  pay  commission  for  the  business.  Such  commission 
as  we  mentioned  before,  would  have  to  be  added  to  the  prices  we  have  given 
you. 

The  prices  we  have  quoted  are  quite  the  lowest  we  have  ever  entered  on 
7  mm  cartridges,  for  we  are  extremely  anxious  to  obtain  this  order  and  have 
sacrificed  profit.  However,  you  will  have  to  be  reimbursed  for  your  work  in 
event  of  the  order  being  placed,  and  the  prices  contemplate  a  small  commission 
for  you  ;  but  we  ask  that  you  leave  the  amount  for  determination  when  the 
business  assumes  a  more  definite  aspect. 

We  eagerly  await  your  further  advices,  and  with  kindest  regards  we  remain, 

F.  J.  MoNAGHAN,  Export  Manager. 
FJM 
JM 

Exhibit  No.  983 

Palmer  &  Company, 

570 — Moreno — 574, 
Buenos  Aires,  August  22nd,  1933. 
Remington  Aems  Co.,  Inc., 

Bridgeport,  Conn.,  U.  S.  A. 
DuAR  Sirs:  This  will  confirm  the  exchange  of  cables  with  you  as  follows: 
Yours  of  the  19th :  "  Effective  orders  dated  after  August  twentieth,  twenty-two 
caliber  cartridges  increased  ten  percent,  firearms  caliber 
twenty-two  percent,  firearms  all  other  calibers  and  gauges 
fifteen  percent.     Advise  customers." 
Yours  of  the  19 :  "  22  meaning  is  not  clear ;  10%  over  list  14  or  merely  elimi- 
nating 10%  recently  allowed." 
Yours  of  the  21st:  "Fourteen  list  of  twenty-two  reinstated  without  discount 
or  confidential." 
From  all  of  this  we  understand  that  on  caliber  .22  cartridges  we  have  to  sell 
strictly  in  accordance  with  list  no.  14,  no  longer  offering  the  10%  discount 
which  has  recently  been  allowed.     We  understand  further  than  on  .22  calil>er 
rifles  we  are  to  advance  the  prices  of  list  no.  14,  £"0%,  and  we  are  to  advance 
15%  the  prices  of  all  other  rifles  and  of  all  shotguns.     As  you  have  said  nothing 
about  cartridges  larger  than  cal.  22,  we  take  it  that  list  no.  14  applies  to  such 
cartridges  with  the  10%   confidential  which  has  heretofore  been  allowed  on 
certain  items. 

Immediately  upon  receipt  of  your  first  cable  we  got  in  touch  with  our  cus- 
tomers and  we  have  pleasure  in  sending  you  by  this  air  mail  4  orders,  that  is 
our  orders  nos.  1193,  1194,  1195,  and  1196. 

Order  no.  1193  is  i-eally  for  Mr.  Werns.  but  he  has  arranged  for  Mr.  Redaelli 
to  receive  the  goods  for  him  so  as  to  cut  down  the  incidental  charges.  So  far 
as  you  are  concerned,  order  no.  1193  is  to  be  shipped  and  invoiced  to  Mr. 
Redaelli  and  it  is  unnecessary  to  put  Mr.  Werns'  name  on  any  document  or  on 
any  case. 

Rifle  model  33  was  formerly  pi'iced  at  $3.30  each.  Mr.  Werns  would  like  to 
get  this  price  on  order  1193 ;  if,  however,  this  is  impossible  it  is  understood 
that  you  will  bill  at  $3.80,  which  is  the  price  according  to  list  no.  14,  that  is  to 
say  these  rifles  should  be  billed  at  all  events  at  the  prices  prevailing  before 
you  sent  your  cable  of  the  19th.  and  this  applies  to  the  model  34  also.  With 
reference  to  the  packing  of  the  3  model  34's  in  each  shipment,  please  put  them 
in  boxes  such  as  are  used  for  the  model  33,  so  that  the  Custom  House  inspector 


2628  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

will  not  notice  any  difference  at  all  in  the  boxes  when  the  cases  are  opened. 
Furthermore,  please  put  the  boxes  which  contain  the  model  34's  right  in  the 
center  of  the  case,  that  is  the  center  from  side  to  side  and  also  the  center  from 
top  to  bottom.  If  these  instructions  are  all  carefully  followed  it  will  be  very 
bad  luck  indeed  if  the  Custom  House  inspector  discovers  that  there  are  some 
repeating  rifles  in  this  shipment.  Mr.  Werus  is  not  only  anxious  to  save  the 
additional  duties  on  repeating  rifles,  but  even  more  he  wishes  to  avoid  the  de- 
lays incident  to  the  entry  of  repeating  caliber  .22  rifles.  Strictly  speaking, 
repeating  rifles  of  any  caliber  should  not  come  into  the  country  at  all  but 
single  shot  22's  can  come  in. 

Order  no.  1194  requires  no  si)ecial  comment,  it  being  understood,  of  course, 
that  you  will  give  the  10%  which  was  allowed  before  you  sent  us  your  recent 
cable. 

Order  no.  1195  requires  no  special  comment  either,  except  that  it  is  subject 
to  the  same  condition.  Please  note,  however,  that  when  drawing  on  Gonzalez 
&  Russel  for  this  shipment  you  should  deduct  the  credit  of  $13. — U.  S.,  which 
you  promised  to  give  them  in  your  letter  of  August  11th,  1932.  We  are  quite 
sure  that  this  credit  has  not  been  deducted  from  any  draft  up  to  the  present 
time. 

Order  no.  119G.  You  will  note  that  this  order  is  for  Liprandi,  De  Eoni  & 
Scholberg  of  Montevideo.  This,  of  course,  brings  up  again  the  question  of 
payment  and  credit.  Our  suggestion,  is,  therefore,  that  you  hold  order  1196 
for  a  few  days,  as  Mr.  Liprandi  has  promised  an  additional  order  for  other 
sizes.  This  we  will  probably  receive  tomorrow  or  the  next  day.  Consequently, 
on  the  25th  we  expect  to  v^'rite  you  again  by  air  mail  and  at  that  time  we  will 
answer  your  letter  of  the  9th  iust.  about  Liprandi's  payments  and  at  the 
same  time  take  up  order  no.  1196  and  the  additional  order  which  we  expect 
to  receive.  It  is  understood,  however,  that  if  order  1196  is  finally  accepted 
by  you  it  will  be  billed  to  Liprandi  at  the  prices  of  list  no.  14,  but  we  will  get 
the  discount  of  10,  10  »&  '2%,  which  we  have  been  receiving  lately  on  Liprandi's 
business. 

You  will  have  noted  that  we  have  sent  you  by  last  air  mail  an  order  for 
800,000  22's  for  Kirschbaum.  This  was,  of  course,  mailed  before  we  received 
your  first  cable. 

In  one  of  the  paragraphs  above  we  have  been  rather  explicit  about  the  pack- 
ing of  the  rifles  for  Mr.  Werns  and  we  have  done  so  because  of  what  happened 
in  connection  with  a  recent  shipment  for  Gonzalez  &  Rossell.  In  our  letter 
of  June  6th  we  asked  yon  to  pack  the  caliber  .44's  in  the  center  of  the  cases 
and  your  letter  uf  June  23rd  indicated  that  you  understood  just  what  was 
wanted.  But,  apparently  the  man  who  actually  did  the  packing  did  not  under- 
stand it  at  all  because  in  each  case  or  cases  (v.'e  do  not  know  at  the  moment 
how  many  there  were)  the  small  calibres  have  been  put  around  the  oufsiile  of 
the  case  from  top  to  bottom  and  the  44's  have  been  put  in  the  center  of  the 
case  also  from  top  to  bottom.  The  result  is  that  as  soon  as  the  top  of  the  case 
is  lifted  one  sees  immediately  the  caliber  44's,  which  is,  of  course,  just  what 
we  wanted  to  avoid.  The  Custom  House  inspector  immediately  discovered  that 
the  case  did  not  contain  only  small  calibers  and  the  large  calibers  have  been 
seized.  Gonzales  &  Rossell  say  they  will  have  to  abandon  them.  So  far  they 
not  made  any  very  urgent  claim  on  you,  seeming  to  think  for  some  reason 
that  they  did  not  explain  their  desires  very  well.  If  we  were  in  their  place 
we  would  certainly  not  take  such  a  charitable  view  of  the  situation  and  we  do 
not  think  that  you  would  either.  In  any  event,  we  will  let  the  matter  rest 
for  the  present  and  if  the  customer  brings  it  up  again  we  will  advise  you.  In 
the  meantime,  however,  it  would  be  well  to  take  up  this  incident  with  your 
packer  to  avoid  repetition  of  it  in  the  future. 
Very  truly  yours, 

pp.     Pai-mer  &  Company, 
(Signed)     Thueston  V.  V.  Ely. 

TVVE.HS 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2629 

Exhibit  No.  984 

"A" 

Otto  Kuhlen,  Unico  Representante  Para  of  Biasil,  da  Remington  Arms  Com- 
panj',  Inc.,  New  York,  29  Warren  Street,  a  Maior  Fabrica  do  Mundo  de 
Armas-Minicoes-Cutelarias.     Telephone :  2-4106-Caixa  Postal  495 

Marca  Registrada — Remington,  UMC 

Sao  Paulo,  21  de  October  de  1929. 
Trav.  do  Coramercio,  2 — 1.  candar. 
Remington — reg.    U.    S.    Pat.    Off.     End.    telegraphico,    Remac ;    codicos 
Usados,  Bentley ;  A.  BC.  Sth  ed.  Boi-ges 

[Answered  Nov.  S,  IQilQ.     G.  Rugge] 

Mr.  George  Rugge, 

General  Export  Manager  Remington  Arms  Compo/ny,  Inc., 
29  Warren  Street,  Neio  York  City. 

Deiae  ]Me.  Kugge  :  Regarding  office  rent,  you  know  that  some  time  ago  the 
late  Mr.  Kuhlen  advised  you  that  he  had  arranged  with  the  landlord  to  reduce 
the  rent  from  Rs  650$000  to  Rs  500$0<]0,  but  I  do  not  know  whether  or  not  you 
are  aware  of  the  fact  that  there  was  not  any  reduction  because  the  space  rented 
for  the  company's  offices  comprises  the  two  large  front  rooms  and  the  small  side 
room,  and  since  Mr.  Kuhlen  occupied  the  small  room  for  his  private  cutlery 
business  he  paitl  a  separate  rent  of  Rs  150$000  for  it  and  charged  the  Co.  only 
Rs  500$00O  for  the  two  large  rooms.  Now,  the  small  room  has  been  vacant  since 
Mr.  Kuhlen  died,  and,  as  I  have  no  use  for  it,  I  have  arx-anged  with  the  landlord 
to  take  it  over,  and,  as  he  does  not  seem  to  be  able  to  rent  it  to  somebody  else, 
he  proposed  to  let  me  have  the  two  front  rooms  for  Rs  550$0OO,  or,  then,  I  would 
have  to  keep  everything  at  the  rent  Mr.  Kuhlen  contracted ;  i.  e.,  Rs  650$000.  I 
decided  that  it  is  best  to  pay  Rs  550$00O  for  the  rooms  I  occupy  and  let  the  small 
one  go.  Therefore  the  rent  to  be  paid  at  the  end  of  this  month  will  be  Rs 
550$000. 

I  want  to  suggest  to  you  that  as  soon  as  everything  is  settled  you  permit  the 
changing  of  this  office  to  more  suitable  and  cheaper  quarters.  There  are  plenty 
of  offices  for  rent  in  modern  buildings  centrally  located  which  can  be  rented 
much  cheaper ;  I  say  for  about  Rs  300$000  or  less.  I  know  that  you  will  send 
me  your  instructions  in  due  time  regarding  this  matter. 

The  Christmas  season  is  approaching.  I  had  better  ask  you  now  for  advices 
as  to  what  to  do  in  regards  to  giving  presents  to  the  Government  officials  who  are 
rendering  us  services  in  connection  with  permits. 

Last  year  Mr.  Kuhlen  distributed  Christmas  presents  amounting  to  $300.00 
amongst  his  friends  of  the  Regiao  Militar  in  S.  Paulo  and  Mr.  Bispo  de  Araujo, 
Consul  Florambel,  Col.  Lapagesse,  and  a  Capt.  Scares,  of  Rio.  Mr.  Moura,  of 
J.  J.  F.  &  Cia.  also  received  a  present. 

The  amounts  spent  on  eacli  person  were  as  follows : 

General  Hastimphile Rs  150$000 

Capt.  Tores  Homom 140$ 

Colonel    Rezond? 140$ 

Capt.   Cuisserat 240$ 

Major  Moreira 240$ 

Mr.  Bspo  de  Araujo 700$ 

Consul    Florambel 300$ 

Col.  Lapagesse _  150$ 

Capt.  Soares 240$ 

Mr.  Moura 200$ 

Since  the  new  permit  regulation  has  gone  into  effect  it  has  not  been  neces- 
sary for  this  office  to  utilize  the  services  of  the  officers  of  the  local  Regiao 
Militar.  Our  local  clients  now  deliver  their  own  applications  and  when  neces- 
sary they  go  themselves  to  the  regiao  for  any  information  or  favor  they  may 
need.  As  everything  in  connection  with  permits  has  proceeded  normally  I  have 
not  yet  had  the  opportunity  to  ask  for  any  favors  from  these  local  military 
authorities. 

The  only  person  who  has  been  rendering  us  valuable  services  just  now  has 
been  Mr.  Araujo,  of  Rio.  He  has  been  giving  me  prompt  information  about  the 
applications  from  our  clients  that  arrive  at  the  war  dept.     When  I  give  an 


2630  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

application  to  a  client  for  signnture  I  immediately  advise  Aran  jo.  He  is  on 
the  lookout  for  it  in  Rio  and  puts  it  liefore  the  minister  for  dispatch  as  soon 
as  it  arrives  at  the  war  dept. 

If  you  are  going  to  decide  to  discontinue  the  practice  of  giving  Christmas 
presents  to  any  government  officials  from  Rio  as  well  as  from  S.  Paulo,  I 
think  you  should  make  an  exception  in  the  case  of  Mr.  Araujo.  A  Christmas 
gratification  to  him  in  addition  to  what  he  gets  every  month  will  act  as  an 
encouragement  to  his  continuing  to  give  us  his  good  services  in  Rio. 

After  all,  the  discontinuance  of  this  practice,  with  the  exception  named,  may 
be  the  best  thing  to  do.  We  are  not  any  longer  dealing  with  these  i)eople 
direct  in  connection  with  permits,  so  they  may  hot  accept  anything  from  us, 
but  from  the  clients  who  no  doubt  will  not  forget  them.  Besides,  these  people 
were  Mr.  Kuhlen's  personal  friends  and  he  needed  their  friendship  for  the 
reason  that  applications  for  permits  were  filed  from  this  office.  Now  that 
their  friend  has  died  and.  the  permit  regulation  has  changed  they  may  not 
expect  anything. 

However,  the  decision  about  this  matter  will  be  entirely  up  to  you,  and  I 
know  that  you  are  not  going  even  to  give  the  matter  much  thought,  but  that 
you  alread.v  have  in  mind  .iust  what  to  do.     Please,  advise  me  in  due  time  in 
connection  with  this  matter. 
Very  truly  yours, 

A.  M.  Barata. 


Exhibit  No.  985 

January  31.  1930. 
Mr.  A.  M.  Barata, 

Caiwa  Pofital  ^95,  Sao  Paulo.  Brazil. 
Dear  Mr.  Barata  :  Your  letter  dated  January  4th  covers  certain  expenses 
you  outlaid  during  the  holiday  season  and  we  approve  all  the  items  of  this  na- 
ture shown  on  your  statement  for  the  month  of  December.  It  is  quite  all  right 
to  give  the  Christmas  bonification  to  Mrs.  Felice  and  hope  she  is  quite  satisfied 
with  the  gift.  Glad  to  note  that  Mr.  Moura  and  Capt.  T.  H.  were  delighted 
with  what  you  presented  to  them.  Keep  up  the  good  work  to  have  our  operating 
expenses  as  low  as  possible. 

Your  letter  dated  January  7th  confirms  the  cablegram  you  sent  covering  your 
visit  to  the  Rio  Embassy  in  con.iunction  with  the  embargo  and  detained  ship- 
ments. It  is  certainly  good  to  note  that  there  continues  to  be  prospects  of  the 
Minister  of  "War  allowing  the  shipments  held  up  to  pass  into  the  hands  of  the 
consignees  and  we  hope  that  ere  this  letter  reaches  you  something  as  been  done 
in  this  regard. 

Just  as  soon  as  you  have  completed  your  investigation  into  the  report  that 
shipments  to  the  Amazon  District  will  again  be  permitted  and  your  detained 
shipments  be  released,  please  let  us  hear  from  you.     We  are  perfectly  satisfied 
with  your  trip  to  Rio. 
Yours  very  truly, 

Remington   Arms   Company.   Inc., 
Geo.  RiTGGE.  Genl.  Expoj't  Manafrer. 
GRN 


Exhibit  No.  986 

[A.  M.  Barata.  representante  Remington  Arms  Company  Tno..  Sao  I'aulo,  Brazil.      Teleph. 
Central  4106.  Caixa  Postal  495] 

"  Reniiiiiztoi!  "  Armas.  Municoes  e  Cutelarias. 

.sV/o  Paulo,  June  23,  1930. 

[Ponril  nolf-  -Ans.  S/G/^.O — M.] 

Remington  Arms  Company.  Inc., 

29  Warren  S!  reet.  Ncv'  York  Vitii. 

Gentlemen:  In  a  previous  letter  T  havp  informed  you  that  I  was  leaving 
for  Rio  on  the  Sth  iiistant  for  the  imrnrso  of  also  investigating  about  the  Gov- 
ernment husinesis  to  which  you  refeircd  in  your  letters  da*e<l  May  9th  and  16th. 

The  interest  on  the  ))art  of  the  present  Governnient  to  i>urchase  7  ni/ni  car- 
tridges abroad  is  not  recent.     The  iiearest  time  since  which  the  Government 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2631 

has  first  contemplated  that  purchase  is  about  one  year  ago.  Although  there  are 
stories  to  the  effect  that  such  purchas^e  has  been  decided  upon  since  a  longer 
time,  we  cannot  err  to  accept  as  the  real  truth  that  the  decision  was  made  in 
the  early  part  of  1929.  Such  intention  on  the  part  of  the  Government  was  first 
known  at  that  time,  and  from  that  date  began  the  activities  of  the  sellers  to 
secure  tlie  Government  business.  All  this  I  know  from  information  gathered 
up  in  the  office  of  the  American  commercial  attach^  in  Rio  and  from  individual 
army  officers  whom  I  know  in  Ilio  and  who  could  post  me  with  positiveness 
on  the  case. 

Knowing,  in  fact,  that  the  Government  had  been  even  from  such  a  long  date 
interested  in  the  purchase  of  7  m/m  cartridges  from  abroad,  I  immediately  put 
into  execution  my  plans  to  find  the  right  sort  of  connection  with  the  Govern- 
ment. From  what  I  investigated  I  did  not  consider  Messrs.  L.  Figueira  &  Cia 
a  good  medium  for  my  case.  Mr.  Forman,  of  the  Coll  Company,  informed  me 
that  he  has  been  depending  on  them  for  over  six  months  to  get  orders  from  the 
Government  without  any  concrete  results,  and  I  was  also  informed  that  they 
have  not  been  able  to  do"^  anything  in  the  way  of  getting  business  for  the  repre- 
sentative of  the  Curtis-Wright  Export  Corp.,  of  New  York,  although  through 
other  mediums  the  French  have  sold  airplanes  to  tlie  Government. 

I  preferred,  therefore,  some  firm  that  has  not  only  been  selling  to  the  Gov- 
ernment but  that  has  also  enough  pull  and  power  to  obtain  the  Government's 
preference  to  a  proposition  it  offers  irrespective  of  how  attractive  other  propo- 
sitions made  by  different  concerns  may  look  to  the  Government.  I  found  this 
firm,  one  of  the  partners  of  which  is  Dr.  Firmino  de  Mello,  who  is  son-in-law 
of  President  Washington  Luiz.  There  are  two  other  partners  who  are  very 
well  known  in  Government  circles.  The  name  of  one  of  them  is  Dr.  Max 
Leitao,  with  whom  I  instituted  friendship  and  dined  together  a  couple  of  times^ 

Dr.  de  Mello,  in  our  first  interview,  told  me  right  away  that  he  knew  about 
this  business.  He  evidently  had  heard  it  commented  upon  by  high  officials.  He 
had  an  idea  that  orders  from  7-m/m  cartridges  had  been  placed  abroad,  in  Eng- 
land, Italy,  Austria,  and  with  the  Fabrica  Nacional  of  Sao  Paulo.  He  knew  that 
such  orders  had  been  placed  some  time  ago.  He  was  not  sure  that  all  the  Gov- 
ernment requirements  for  such  cartridges  had  been  filled.  He  would  find  it  out 
for  me.  He  knew  further  than  an  American  concern  had  offered  a  bid.  I  men- 
tioned the  name  of  the  Western  Cartridge  Company ;  he  remembered  it,  but  he 
stated  that  this  concern  did  not  get  an  order.  A  question  of  prices,  he  added. 
He  spoke  about  the  claim  made  by  Western  that  their  cartridges  were  the  best 
on  account  of  the  bullet  jackets  being  of  a  very  soft  metal  composition  which 
would  cause  the  prolongation  of  the  life  of  the  rifle  barrel.  A  bullet  jacket  of 
such  composition  could  never  injure  the  rifling  of  the  bore  in  tlie  barrel  because 
it  being  so  soft  it  did  not  offer  much  pressure  upon  the  rifling.  He  remembered 
the  term  Lubaley  by  which  Western  called  these  cartridges.  Mr.  de  Mello 
knew  everything  and  I  wondered  whether  he  had  ever  been  approached  by  some- 
body interested  in  getting  through  him  this  Government  business.  As  we  con- 
tinued to  talk  he  revealed  to  me  that  the  Companhia  Imperial  Industrias 
Chimicas  do  Brazil,  Ltda.,  Nobel's  Brazilian  subsidiary,  had  some  time  ago 
approached  him  to  work  for  them  on  this  deal  on  a  split  commission  basis.  His 
firm,  the  name  of  which  is  Souza  Sampaio  &  Cia.,  Ltda.,  Rio,  refused  the  propo- 
sition because  it  only  works  for  full  commission,  therefore  it  works  only  direct 
with  principals.  No  wonder,  then,  that  Dr.  de  Mello  was  so  fully  acquainted 
with  the  matter  about  which  I  approached  his  firm. 

Of  course,  the  only  thing  left  for  me  to  do  was  to  ask  him  to  investigate  for 
me  whether  in  fact  the  entire  order  had  been  placed  in  Europe,  and  give  me  a 
confirmation  on  all  his  above  statements. 

I  had  to  wait  quite  a  few  days  for  his  reply.  In  the  meantime  I  kept  on  calling 
on  them  to  cement  my  friendship  with  the  partners  of  the  firm.  Finally  he 
reported  to  me  that  Nobel  wiis  the  British  concern  that  got  a  part  of  the  business, 
the  balance  havmg  been  divided  up  between  an  Austrian  and  an  Italian  factory, 
the  names  of  wLich  he  could  not  remember,  and  the  Fabrica  Nacional  in  Sao 
Paulo.  He  told  me,  furthermore  and  confidentially,  that  the  business  for  the 
European  factories  was  obtained  through  intervention  by  their  respective  ambas- 
sadors. That  the  Italian  ambassador,  upon  knowing  what  the  price  quoted  by 
Nobel  was,  went  personally  to  the  President  of  theRepublic  and  obtained  his 
consent  to  cutting  down  the  share  given  to  the  British  factory  and  giving  a  part 
of  the  order  to  the  Italian  factory.  He  also  confirmed  that  the  American 
factory's  bid  was  turned  down. 
83876— 35— PT  11 16 


2632  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Knowing  all  the  facts  of  the  case  which  I  could  know  through  Mr.  de  Mello's 
firm,  I  asked  them  to  be  on  the  lookout  for  me  for  future  Government  require- 
ments, which  they  promised  to  do,  and  added  that  in  future  occasions  they  would 
act  as  intermediaries  for  me.  They  have  all  the  facilities  in  the  world  to  get 
business  from  the  Brazilian  Gov't,  which  is  easy  to  understand.  Dr.  Mello 
assured  me  that  in  the  future  our  company  would  not  miss  the  chance  of  making 
a  bid,  and  that  it  might  not  be  very  long  before  the  Gov't  required  more  ammuni- 
tion for  the  army.  By  the  way,  he  was  not  sure  about  the  quantity  purchased 
in  this  instance,  but  the  figures  you  gave  me  in  your  letter  seemed  to  him  to  be 
exaggerated.  Besides  my  conversations  with  Dr.  de  Mello,  the  President's  son- 
in-law,  I  had  many  separate  talks  with  the  partner.  Dr.  Max  Leitao,  who 
assured  me  of  all  his  cooperation  in  future  cases. 

The  person  who  put  me  in  contact  with  Messrs.  Souza  Sampaio  &  Cia.,  Ltd.,  is 
a  civil  engineer  of  high  prestige  in  social  and  commercial  circles  of  Rio.  His 
name  is  Clovis  da  Norbrega,  and  he  is  an  old  friend  of  mine.  He  is  a  cousin  of 
the  Governor  of  the  State  of  Rio  Grande  do  Norte.  He  introduced  me  to 
various  congressmen  from  his  State  and  promised  to  do  everything  he  possibly 
could  for  me  in  Rio. 

My  stay  in  Rio  this  time  was  longer  than  in  previous  occasions,  but  it  was 
not  useless  insofar  as  our  future  interests  are  concerned.  With  the  connec- 
tions I  have  made  I  can  assure  you  that  no  Government  business  shall  be  given 
in  the  future  to  any  of  our  European  competitors  without  our  being  given  a 
break.  I  dare  say  that  a  firm  as  influential  with  the  Government  as  Souza 
Sampaio  &  Cia.,  Ltda.,  can  shut  out  any  comi>etitors  having  even  ambassadors 
as  intermediaries. 

I  could  not  obtain  from  Dr.  de  Mello  the  prices  quoted  by  the  Euroi^ean 
factories,  but  I  am  going  to  find  a  way  of  getting  this  information,  which  is 
very  important  for  us  to  know  so  as  to  enable  us  to  determine  whether  we 
could  have  competed  with  the  other  factories  for  this  business.  I  will  also 
endeavour  to  find  out  the  exact  quantities  ordered  from  each  factory.  Of 
course,  it  should  be  appreciated  that  Dr.  de  Mello  would  not  feel  inclined  to 
ask  the  Minister  of  Vv'ar  or  some  other  high  official  for  too  many  details  which 
these  officials  might  not  wish  to  impart  to  him  just  because  he  is  the  President's 
son-in-law.    He  would  have  to  be  discreet  in  his  endeavours  to  do  me  a  favor. 

My  comprehension  of  the  reason  why  this  matter  was  never  brought  to  my 
attention  during  the  time  I  have  been  in  charge  of  this  office,  and  to  the 
attention  of  Mr.  Kuhlen  since  early  last  year  or  even  before  that  until  the 
days  he  began  to  feel  ill,  is  based  on  the  fact  that  this  oflice  has  never  had 
a  firm  like  the  one  I  have  now  arranged  to  be  on  the  look-out  for  future  Gov- 
ei'nmeut  business  for  us.  Such  a  connection  is  essential  if  we  want  to  get 
Government  business  in  this  country,  and  it  should  be  also  considered  advisable 
that  the  representative  take  one  or  two  days  run  to  Rio  every  two  mouths  at 
the  most  to  make  personal  investigations  in  that  direction.  And  who  knows 
that  it  has  been  for  these  reasons  that  for  many  years,  in  fact  as  far  as  I 
lemember  since  the  time  I  have  been  with  the  company,  we  have  never  sold 
anything  to  the  Brazilian  Government,  except  in  1920  or  1921,  at  which  time 
we  sold  some  Colt  pistol  cartridges  to  the  Brazilian  Navy.  I  believe  I  am 
not  wrong  on  this  statement,  however  you  may  wish  to  do  me  the  favor  of 
informing  me  v>hether  I  am  or  not. 

I  trust  that  you  will  find  that  I  am  giving  you  satisfactory  information  on 
the  investigation  I  have  made  in  Rio  about  this  Government  business,  and  if 
there  is  anything  else  that  you  wish  to  know  about  the  matter  which  I  have 
not  reported  fully  and  clearly  please  let  me  know,  so  that  I  may  satisfy  you. 
Naturally,  I  regret  that  our  company  was  not  favored  with  a  share  of  this 
Government  business. 


Yours  very  truly. 


(Signed)     A.  M.  Babata. 


Exhibit  No.  987 

["A"    BR] 

August  8,  1930. 
Mr.  A.  M.  Bar  AT  A, 
Sao  Paulo,  Brazil. 
We  duly  received  your  splendid  report  of  June  23rd  on  the  subject  of  govern- 
ment business.    You  are  to  be  congratulated  on  the  clarity  and  conciseness  of 
the  manner  in  which  you  have  presented  us  with  the  facts  and  your  deductions 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2633 

therefrom,  followed  by  your  preliminary  steps  to  insure  our  having  the  pi-oper 
contact  for  the  future. 

We  absolutely  agi-ee  with  5'ou  that  in  government  business,  the  prime  essen- 
tial is  to  have  the  right  connection ;  otherwise  price,  quality,  or  other  con- 
siderations are  of  no  avail. 

Furthermore,  it  is  necessary  to  nurse  these  contacts  from  time  to  time ; 
but  the  extent  of  the  time  and  money  to  be  employed  has  to  be  gauged  by 
the  potential  business  that  might  ensue.  Before  long  you  will  no  doubt  know 
more  on  this  score  and  in  particular  the  prices  we  would  have  to  quote  in 
order  to  obtain  the  business.     Then  we  can  tell  if  we  can  meet  competition. 

The  fact  we  are  now  ready  to  manufacture  Tracer  ammunition  in  7  m/m, 
7.65  m/m  or  similar  rifle  cartridges,  will  be  a  big  advantage  to  you.  You  know 
we  maniifacture  armor-piercing  cartridges,  for  the  50  calibre  Colt  giui,  and 
we  are  the  only  manufacturers  in  this  country.  Nobels  also  make  them  and 
perhaps  some  continental  manufacturers,  but  Colt's  has  told  use  our  product 
is  vastly  superior  to  any  competitor.  You  will  be  glad  to  know  we  are  pre- 
pared to  supply  Tracer  type  of  bullet  in  this  50  calibre.  Colt  predicts  tlie 
business  in  this  arm  will  grow  at  very  rapid  strides,  and  no  doubt  Mr.  Forman 
is  pushing  its  sale.     It  is  used  for  antiaircraft  work  and  against  tanks. 

You  are  quite  right.  We  have  never  received  any  Brazilian  Government 
business,  although  we  had  many  inquiries  for  prices  from  Mr.  Kuhlen,  but 
nothing  ever  came  of  them. 

Awaiting  your  further  reports  with  keen  interest,  we  remain,  with  kindest 
regards, 

F.  J.  MoNAGHAN,  Export  Manager. 

F.M— JM 


Exhibit  No.  988 

Remington  Arms  Company,  Inc., 

October  24,  1930. 
Mr.  A.  M.  Babata, 

Caixa  Postal  J/QS  Sao  Paulo,  Brazil. 

We  have  to  hurry  in  order  to  catch  today's  mail.  The  latest  news  we  have 
this  morning  is  that  the  Brazilian  Government  resigned  and  the  new  people 
are  in  power.  What  the  developments  are  within  the  next  few  days  remains 
to  be  seen  and  no  doubt  we  will  have  your  cable  advices  as  to  the  prospects 
for  business. 

Of  course  the  change  in  government  is  no  absolute  reason  to  our  way  of 
thinking  that  there  will  be  no  further  inquiries  for  government  supplies,  but 
rather  we  are  inclined  to  think  the  new  government  will  consider  it  necessary 
to  replenish  their  stocks  of  cartridges,  and  perhaps  even  build  up  the  stocks 
beyond  the  point  at  which  they  were  before  the  trouble.  Of  course  we  are 
wondering  what  your  status  will  be  with  the  new  Government,  that  is  to  say, 
if  you  will  be  accepted  as  a  friend  in  view  of  your  negotiations  for  attempt- 
ing to  sell  those  formerly  in  power  and  we  await  with  interest  your  advices 
on  this  point.  The  same  thought  holds  good  in  respect  to  Figueira  &  Co. 
Will  they  be  the  right  people  for  the  future? 

Now  for  the  most  important  subject  of  this  communication.  All  week  we 
have  been  exasperated  beyond  words  at  the  absence  of  definite  advices  from 
you  by  which  you  understood  what  we  were  doing  and  the  instructions  we 
were  giving  you.  Here  is  the  picture  as  far  as  we  can  give  it  to  you  quickly 
of  the  position  in  which  we  were  placed.  The  Brazilian  naval  attache  in 
Washington,  Mr.  J.  C.  Aguirre,  has  always,  and  this  means  for  years  past, 
done  his  buying  through  a  man  in  New  York  and  for  good  and  sufficient 
reasons  at  the  present  moment  we  do  not  want  to  give  you  his  name.  The 
quotations  are  made  to  Commander  Aguirre  in  the  name  of  the  manufacturer 
and  a  commission  is  included  for  the  man  in  New  York.  We  found  our  com- 
petitors in  this  country  were  quoting  through  this  channel  and,  therefore,  it 
was  obligatory  for  us  to  place  our  quotations  through  this  channel,  because 
we  know  this  channel  was  not  adding  as  much  for  commission  as  your  inter- 
mediary. You  know  in  previous  communications  we  have  called  your  attention 
to  the  fact  that  we  believed  the  commission  of  15%   was  entirely  too  much. 

When  we  gave  our  quotation  to  Commander  Aguirre  we  realized  that  you 
not  having  had  much  experience  with  these  government  transactions  might 


2634  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

have  in  some  way  left  us  liable  for  commission  to  Figueira  &  Co.  in  the  event 
of  an  order  reaching  us  through  Washington  and  yet  Figueira  &  Co.  have 
absolutely  nothing  to  do  with  influencing  the  order  to  us.  Whether  they 
influenced  it  or  not  we  certainly  could  not  pay  commission  to  two  people. 

Where  you  appoint  a  man  as  your  agent  and  do  not  do  it  in  the  proper  way, 
he  can  claim  commission  no  matter  through  what  channel  the  order  reaches 
the  manufacturer,  and  therefore,  we  always  keep  this  in  mind  and  make  our 
arrangements  to  protect  against  such  a  happening.  The  best  way  to  accom- 
plish this  is  to  quote  the  intermediary  as  a  principal ;  in  other  words,  when 
we  give  Figueira  &  Co.  a  quotation,  that  means  he  has  to  buy  the  goods  from 
us  at  the  price  we  give  him  less  the  15%  or  whatever  other  commission  may 
be  decided  upon.  The  same  holds  true  when  we  give  a  quotation  to  Com- 
mander Agniirre  through  his  agent  here.  We  are  always  careful  in  confirm- 
ing any  of  these  quotations  not  to  leave  any  loopholes  for  people  to  take 
advantage  of. 

Information  reached  us  through  more  than  one  channel  that  Figueira  &  Co. 
were  working  for  practically  every  American  ammunition  manufacturer,  and 
reports  we  have  had  on  them  from  people  whom  we  know  are  to  the  effect 
that  Figueira  &  Co.,  while  well  placed  with  the  government  that  was,  have  to 
be  watched  very  closely,  as  they  are  tricky. 

In  one  of  your  cables  you  told  us  the  inquiry  from  the  American  commercial 
attache  was  instigated  by  F.  &  Co.  Maybe  you  are  right ;  but  a  couple  of 
other  ammunition  manufacturers  were  told  by  their  representative  in  Kio  that 
they  instigated  the  inquiry  through  the  commercial  attache,  so  you  can  use 
your  own  imagination  as  to  how  much  truth  there  is  to  tl^s  story. 

When  we  cabled  you  that  inquiries  were  reaching  us  through  various  chan- 
nels, we  really  had  in  mind  only  one  which  we  would  recognize,  and  that  is 
the  Brazilian  naval  attache ;  and  our  cable  was  intended,  as  it  clearly  read,  to 
make  sure  you  had  not  involved  us  so  we  would  have  to  pay  commission  to 
F.  &  Co.  in  the  event  of  an  order  reaching  us  through  Commander  Agiiirre, 
You  did  not  answer  our  question,  but  instead  you  cabled  in  defense  of  F.  &  Co. 
and  absolutely  evaded  our  question,  which  you  must  not  do  in  future.  At  the 
same  time  you  probably  inspired  the  cable  we  received  from  F.  &  Co.  they  sent 
the  same  day,  saying  they  were  working  in  cooperation  with  you. 

The  day  before  yesterday  we  cabled  you  our  only  quotation  was  to  the  Wash- 
ington attache  through  his  agent,  and,  of  course,  we  meant  the  Brizilian  naval 
attach^.  This  was  in  reply  to  your  cable  to  advise  you  confidentially  the 
names  of  others  making  inquiries.  At  the  same  time  we  cabled  F.  &  Co.,  but 
did  not  mention  the  word  agent ;  and  yet  in  the  cable  received  today  from  F.  & 
Co.  they  asked  us  the  name  of  the  Washington  attache  and  the  agent,  indicating 
you  showed  them  your  cable.  We  certainly  expectetl  a  cable  from  you  ac- 
konwledging  this  cable  we  sent  you,  for  we  told  you  to  cable  acknowledgment, 
yet  yon  have  not  done  so.  Today  we  answered  Figueira's  cable  by  cabling  them, 
"  We  quoted  Brizilian  naval  attache."  We  did  not  want  them  to  know  there 
is  any  agent  involved,  and  we  are  going  to  refrain  from  saying  so  directly  to 
them. 

Early  this  week  we  received  an  inquiry  from  Commander  Aguirre  for  200,000 
.308  British  pointed  cartridges  for  machine  gnus,  and  we  quoted  him,  receiving 
his  order  two  days  ago,  which  is  now  in  course  of  preparation ;  and,  even  in 
spite  of  Ihe  change  in  government,  we  understand  the  order  is  to  go  through. 
Of  course,  this  is  confidential  information  for  you. 

This  morning  we  received  a  cable  from  Figueira  asking  for  prices  on  100,000 
.303  Britisli  pointed,  and  we  cabled  them  $36.00  per  thousand  ci.  i.  f.,  which 
includes  15%,  as  they  requested.  For  your  confidential  information  the  price 
Aguirre  quoted  the  Government  was  $34.00  per  1,000. 

The  prices  Aguirre  gave  the  Government  on  7  m/m  are  about  $1.00  per 
1,000  lower  than  what  Figueira  quoted  the  Government.  These  are  two  con- 
crete examples,  substantiating  our  belief  that  15%  was  too  high. 

You  can  recognize  you  have  left  us  completely  in  the  dark  as  to  what  yow 
were  doing  with  F.  &  Co.  and  we  can  imagine  they  left  you  the  same  way 
until  they  found  we  had  another  channel  when  they  immediately  awoke  as 
evidenced  by  their  cables  to  us. 

The  situation  as  we  see  it  now  is  quite  complicated  and  being  without  any 
definite  advances  from  you  that  your  negotiations  with  Figueira  &  Co.  have 
not  left  us  open  to  claim  from  them  in  the  event  of  business  through  Washing- 
ton on  7  m/m"s,  wo  beilive  the  present  is  the  proper  time  to  conclude  and 
finalize  all  your  negotiations  up  to  the  present  time  with  Figueria  and  start 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2635 

•everything  with  a  clean  slate.  The  change  in  Government  will  make  this 
possible.  If  you  believe  there  is  any  way  that  you  have  left  us  open  to  claim 
or  the  least  chance  of  it,  and  even  if  you  do  not  think  so,  we  believe  it  will  be 
well  for  you  to  close  all  negotiations  with  Figueira  and  repoen  them  afresh. 
Furthermore,  you  are  not  authorized  to  make  any  arrangements  for  us  with 
any  intermediary  without  all  the  details  being  submitted  to  us  in  advance. 

Yesterday  we  received  your  cable  telling  us  the  commercial  attach^  was 
cabling  the  Commerce  Department  to  ascertain  from  the  War  Department 
here  whether  they  used  gilding  metal  or  Lubaloy.  The  cable  has  not  yet 
arrived,  but  when  it  does  you  may  be  sure  the  answer  you  want  will  be  sent 
and  it  will  be  the  truth — namely.  Gilding  metal.  Even  the  Commerce  Depart- 
ment at  "Washington  laughs  about  this  Lubaloy  for  they  know  Figueira  was 
saturated  with  a  lot  of  Western's  propaganda. 

In  all  these  negotiations  for  Government  business,  you  as  well  as  ourselves 
have  been  working  up  toward  the  top  instead  of  the  way  some  big  companies 
do — from  the  top  down.  In  other  words,  you  find  what  you  believe  is  a 
good  intermediary  and  then  try  to  reach  the  Minister  of  War  or  whoever  else 
has  authority  in  placing  orders.  The  du  Pont  Company  makes  it  a  practice 
of  finding  out  who  is  the  right  man  to  work  with,  the  Minister  of  War,  the 
Head  of  the  Ordnance  Department,  or  whoever  else  it  may  be,  and  then  asks 
that  authoritative  person  who  it  believes  would  be  a  good  agent  to  appoint  for 
negotiations.  But  again  we  want  to  say  no  details  are  to  be  arranged  by 
you  with  an  intermediary  without  our  authority  after  we  have  received 
complete  data  from  you. 

Mr.  Rugge  just  mentioned  that  perhaps  Sant'  Anna  will  be  acquainted 
with  the  new  powers  and  it  may  be  well  for  you  to  seek  his  cooperation. 

In  hurrying  to  catch  this  mail  we  have  not  the  time  nor  inclination  to 
couch  this  letter  in  any  but  plain  unvarnished  English,  and,  as  a  matter  of 
fact,  that  is  perhaps  the  best  way  to  give  you  the  picture  of  things  as  they 
are  disturbing  or  have  been  disturbing  us  all  week. 

17:)plng  you  are  well,  we  are 

,  Export  Manager. 


Exhibit  No.  989 

Remington  Abms  Company,  Inc., 

Bridgeport,  November  30,  1932. 
Personal  and  confidential. 
Mr.  A.  M.  Barata, 

Itajtiba  Hotel,  Rio  de  Janeiro,  Brazil. 

Dear  Sir:  Since  we  received  your  letter  saying  the  Government  was  going 
to  close  up  the  local  ammunition  factory  in  Sao  Paulo,  we  have  given  a  lot  of 
thought  to  that  situation,  for  we  recognize  it  is  a  mighty  important  one  to 
our  interests.  What  we  are  going  to  say  to  you  in  this  letter  we  want 
treated  strictly  confidential. 

In  the  first  place  we  want  to  tell  you  that  nearly  all  the  companies  in  this 
country  and  Europe,  who  would  be  benefited  by  having  the  local  factory  out  of 
the  way,  agreed  some  time  ago  not  to  enter  bids  with  Mr.  Matarazzo  for 
his  company,  for  we  all  felt  by  standing  off  the  factory  would  eventually  faiL 
This  is  the  reason  we  never  turned  a  sympathetic  ear  to  any  of  the  overtures 
made  through  you  for  us  to  become  interested  in  the  purchase  of  the  company. 

What  we  would  like  most  to  see  is  the  Government  take  over  the  factory 
and  scrap  machinery,  especially  that  part  intended  for  the  manufacture 
of  revolver  and  pistol  ammunition  and  shot-gun  cartridges.  If  the  Government 
continues  in  their  present  intention  of  closing  the  plant,  we  would  want  to 
do  everything  possible  to  see  that  the  Government  oflScials  responsible  for 
the  closing  of  the  plant  went  through  with  their  plans  and  actually  had  the 
machinery  scrapped.  For  the  Government  people  to  allow  the  machinery  to 
come  into  the  hands  of  any  new  group  might  result,  as  it  did  before,  in  the 
equipment  being  used  to  the  detriment  of  the  Government. 

It  might  be  that  some  incentive  could  be  given  the  Government  official  who 
was  responsible  for  the  scrapping  of  the  plant  to  see  that  he  went  through 
with  these  plans.  With  all  the  ammunition  factories  practically  broke  now- 
adays, not  much  could  be  done  in  the  way  of  paying  worthwhile  money,  but  we 


2636  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

are  tlunking  the  result  possibly  could  be  accomplished  if  handled  diplouiatically, 
at  a  very  small  cost. 

One  thing  is  certain,  we  do  not  want  to  see  this  machinery  get  into  the 
hands  of  some  other  group  who  would  be  relieved  of  all  the  indebtedness 
of  the  present  company  and  thereby  be  in  a  better  position  to  bid  with  us 
than  is  the  present  company,  for  the  statement  you  sent  us  of  their  financial 
status  we  consider  a  very  poor  one. 

What  we  want  you  to  do  is  to  watch  this  situation  from  every  angle  and 
add  any  propaganda  you  can  with  the  proper  Government  oflBcials  to  the 
end  that  the  plant  be  scrapped. 

This  is  a  rather  sketchy  plan  we  are  presenting  to  you  and  you  want  to  be 
careful  you  do  not  make  any  false  moves.  As  a  matter  of  fact  you  should 
do  nothing  where  you  would  appear  as  a  principal.  First  and  foremost,  we 
want  every  bit  of  information  from  you  as  to  what  transpires  and  is  intended 
in  connection  with  this  local  plant.  Your  suggestions  as  to  what  could  be  done 
in  furthering  our  interests  in  connection  with  this  factory  will  be  anxiously 
awaited  by  return  air  mail. 

In  watching  the  situation  you  have  to  be  careful  to  see  that  none  of  our 
competitors  make  any  moves  to  purchase  the  equipment  of  the  local  plant. 
Yours  very  truly, 


Manager,  Foreign  Department. 


MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY 


HEARINGS 

BHFORB  THB 

SPECIAL  COMMIHEB 

INVESTIGATING  THE  MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY 

UNITED  STATES  SENATE 

SEVENTY-THIED  CONGRESS 

PDRSDANT  TO 

S.  Res.  206 

A  RESOLUTION  TO  MAKE  CERTAIN  INVESTIGATIONS 

CONCERNING  THE  MANUFACTURE  AND  SALE 

OF  ARMS  AND  OTHER  WAR  MUNITIONS 


PART  12 

DECEMBER  11  AND  12,  1934 


RELATIONSHIP  OF  MUNITIONS  MAKERS 
TO  THE  GOVERNMENT 


INTERNATIONAL  CONNECTIONS  IN  THE 
CHEMICAL  INDUSTRY 


Printed  for  the  use  of  the 
Special  Committee  Investigating  the  Munitions  Industry 


UNITED  STATES 
GOVERNMENT  PRINTING  OFFICE 
83876  WASfflNGTON :  1935 


MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY 

r 

HEARINGS 

BEFORE  THE 

SPECIAL  COMMITTEE 
raVESTIGATING  THE  MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY 
•    UNITED  STATES  SENATE 

SEVENTY-THIRD  CONGRESS 

PURSUANT  TO 

S.  Res.  206 

A  RESOLUTION  TO  MAKE  CERTAIN  INVESTIGATIONS 

CONCERNING  THE   MANUFACTURE  AND  SALE 

OF  ARMS  AND  OTHER  WAR  MUNITIONS 


PART  12 

DECEMBER  11  AND  12,   1934 


RELATIONSHIP  OF  MUNITIONS  MAKERS 
.    TO  THE  GOVERNMENT 


INTERNATIONAL  CONNECTIONS  IN  THE 
CHEMICAL  INDUSTRY 


Printed  for  the  use  of  the 
Special  Committee  Investigating  the  Munitions  Industry 


UNITED  STATES 

GOVERNMENT  PRINTING  OFFICE 

WASHINGTON  :  1935 


\       / 

*Atl¥A«\>  COLLfsr  U^BAHY 
fifCElVfO  THROUGH  THI 

flUKlAU  ^0«  RE2tARCH  IN 
MUNICiPAi  tiJirVEBNMENT 

1^37 


X?' 


SPECIAL  COMMITTEE   INVESTIGATING   THE    MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

GERALD  P.  NYE,  North  Dakota,  Ohairman 

WALTER  F.  GEORGE,  Georgia  ARTHUR  H.  VANDENBERG,  Michigan 

BENNETT  CHAMP  CLARK,  Missouri  W.  WARREN  BARBOUR,  New  Jersey 

HOMER  T.  BONE,  Washington 
JAMES  P.  POPE,  Idaho 

Stephen  Rabshenbush,  Secretary 
Alger  Hiss,  Legal  Assistant 


CONTENTS 


Testimony  of —  •  Page 

Beebe,  H.   F.,  manager  foreign  department,   Winchester  Repeating 

Arms  Co 2735-2742 

Bradway,  F.  W.,  assistant  general  manager,  smokeless-powder  depart- 
ment, E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co 2681-2716-2805 

Casey,   K.   K.   V.,  director  of  sales,  smokeless-powder  department, 

E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co 2638,  2640,  2645,  2652,  2654,  2669, 

2683,  2688,  2692,  2698,  2706,  2715,  2718,  2728,  2732,  2744,  2747 
du  Pont,  Iren^e,  vice  chairman  of  board  of  directors,  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 

Nemours  &  Co 2639,  2643, 

2651,  2654,  2688,  2709,  2730,  2741,  2754,  2766,  2781,  2784,  2806 

du  Pont,  Lammot,  president  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co 2641, 

2653,  2668,  2684,  2689,  2705,  2707,  2717,  2727,  2732,  2734,  2740, 
2746,  2752,  2766,  2782,  2786,  2793,  2799,  2803,  2808,  2815. 
du  Pont,  Pierre  S.,  chairman  of  board  of  directors,  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 

Nemours  &  Co 2712-2819 

Sparre,  Dr.  Fin,  director  development  department,  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 

Nemours  &  Co 2699-2711 

Swint,  W.  R.,  director  foreign-relations  department,  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 

Nemours  &  Co 2784-2788,  2791-2794,  2802-2808 

Relations  of  United  States  Army  and  Navy  officers  with  munitiong  makers.     2644 

Business  with  the  United  States  Government 2661 

Relations  of  du  Pont  Co.  with  the  State  Department 2672-2683 

Submergence  of  Government  powder  under  water  at  Old  Hickory 2679 

Influence  of  munitions  companies  on  the  policies  of  Government 2691 

Use  of  United  States  Government  guns  for  commercial  demonstrations. ._     2700 

National  policy  regarding  munitions  shipments  to  foreign  countries 2706 

Attitude  of  du  Pont  Co.  toward  embargoes  and  legislation  regarding  em- 
bargoes       2717 

Question  of  international  disarmament  in  1922  and  its  relation  to  the  chem- 
ical industry 2754 

International  connections  in  the  chemical  industry 2781 

m 


INVESTIGATION  OF  MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY 


TUESDAY,   DECEMBEB    11,    1934 

United  States  Senate, 

Special  Committee  to 
Investigate  the  Munitions  Industry, 

Washington^  t).  G. 
The  hearing  was  resumed  a  10  a.m.  in  the  Finance  Committee 
Eoom,  Senate  OflSice  Building,  pursuant  to   the  taking  of  recess,, 
Senator  Gerald  P.  Nye  presiding. 
Present:  Senators  Nye  (chairman),  Barbour,  Clark,  and  Pope. 
Present  also:  Stephen  Raushenbush,  secretary  to  the  committee. 

At  this  point  the  committee  concluded  that  part  of  the  testimony 
which  is  incorporated  in  Part  XI  of  these  hearings,  "  Chemical 
Preparation  following  the  War  and  Interchange  of  Military  In- 
formation." 

The  Chairman.  The  committee  will  be  in  order. 
Senator  Clark  desires  on  the  stand  this  morning  Mr.  Casey  and 
either  or  both  Mr.  Irene©  du  Pont  and  Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont. 

TESTIMONY  OF  IRENEE  DU  PONT,  LAMMOT  DU  PONT,  AND 

K.  K.  V.  CASEY 

Senator  Clark.  Gentlemen,  I  desire  this  morning  to  examine 
somewhat  briefly  into  the  question  of  the  relations  of  private  muni- 
tion companies  to  the  United  States  Government,  particularly  the 
War  and  Navy  Departments.  I  will  first  read  a  letter  from  Mr. 
Phellis,  general  director  of  sales,  to  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont,  president, 
room  9042,  building,  dated  November  26,  1919,  which  I  ask  to  have 
marked  with  the  appropriate  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  990  "  and  ap- 
pears in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Clark.  That  letter  reads : 

Subject :  Nobel  agreement. 

Before  leaving  today  Mr.  Pickard  asked  that  we  send  you  copy  of  the  at- 
tached letter  from  Maj.  K.  K.  V.  Casey  for  your  information. 

C.  W.  Phexllis.  General  Director  of  Sales. 

I  also  desire  to  read  extracts  from  a  letter,  which  I  will  be  glad 
to  read  any  other  parts  in,  which  you  gentlemen  desire  read,  but  I 
will  read  the  parts  I  consider  important,  being  a  letter  dated  Novem- 
ber 25,  1919 ;  that  is,  memorandum  to  Mr.  F.  W.  Pickard,  vice  presi- 
dent, signed  by  Major  Casey,  director  of  sales. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  991  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2820.)  * 

2637 


2638  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

I  think  this  letter  may  have  been  used  in  Senator  Vandenberg's 
examination  the  other  day,  although  I  was  not  here. 
Mr.  Casey.  Not  this  one,  Senator. 
Senator  Clark.  I  read : 

As  I  understand  the  situation,  we  are  contemplating  entering  into  an 
agreement  witli  tlie  Explosives  Trade  Limited — 

The  Explosives  Trades  Ltd.,  Major,  was  one  of  the  component 
parts  of  what  is  noAv  I.  C.  I.,  was  it  not? 
Mr.  Casey.  Yes,  sir. 
Senator  Clark  [continuing  reading]  : 

on  a  division  of  profits  from  the  sales  of  military  and  commercial  products  in 
South  America  and  elsewhere.  I  am  not  familiar  with  the  purpose  in  back  of 
this  arrangement,  but  assume  that  the  idea  is  that  it  will  result  in  a  better 
percentage  of  profit  by  the  elimination  of  competition ;  that  is  the  only  reason 
I  can  imagine. 

Personally,  I  cannot  see  whereby  we  will  be  the  gainers  by  any  arrangement 
we  can  make  with  Nobel.  The  du  Pont  Co.  today  is  preeminently  the  leading 
manufacturer  of  explosives  in  the  world  and  with  a  record  for  satisfactory 
production  that  has  never  been  equalled.  This  fact  is  known  not  only  by  the 
Allies,  but  has  been  thoroughly  appreciated  by  the  Central  Powers  as  well  as 
the  neutral  nations.  Therefore,  we  have  a  prestige  second  to  none,  which  will 
not  be  materially  strengthened  by  the  above-mentioned  arrangement.  As  far 
as  prestige  is  concerned,  we  will  be  given  more  than  we  receive. 

If  it  is  expected  that  this  arrangement  will  enable  us  to  control  the  market 
in  South  America  to  our  mutual  advantage,  I  think  we  are  working  on  a  false 
hypothesis.  South  American  countries,  with  the  exception  of  their  navies,  are 
armed  and  equipped  with  German-made  small  arms,  and  with  German  and 
French  field  artillery.  There  may  be  a  few  English  guns  for  Cordite  in  some 
of  the  coast  defenses,  but  my  understanding  is  that  the  majority  of  these  guns 
are  Krupp,  which  practically  indicates  that  the  only  English  powder  used  is 
powder  that  is  sold  for  use  on  English-built  warships. 

England  has  succeeded  for  some  years  in  impressing  nations  where  guns  built 
for  nitroglycerin  powder  have  been  supplied  that  they  will  work  satisfactorily 
with  nitroglycerin  ix)wder  only,  that  tins  notion  has  been  shown  to  be  er- 
roneous, and  now  it  is  a  relatively  small  matter  to  prove  to  the  satisfaction 
of  interested  people  that  nitrocellulose  powders  can  be  made  that  will  give 
equal  satisfaction  in  guns  of  the  so-called  "  nitroglycerin  "  type. 

The  competition  that  we  have  to  fear  is  that  of  the  German,  French,  and 
Italian,  but  principally  German,  and  unless  there  is  something  with  which  I 
am  not  familiar  I  cannot  see  in  what  way  any  arrangement  we  make  with 
Nobel  will  protect  us  against  this  competition.  In  fact,  even  in  the  case  of 
the  Engli.sh-made  guns,  if  the  nation  should  insist  on  using  nitroglycerin 
powder,  we  are  still  unprotected  by  reason  of  Italian  competition.  Therefore, 
as  I  see  it,  we  will  be  making  an  arrangement  whereby  instead  of  dividing  a 
fair  profit  which  division  will  net  us  more,  we  will  in  reality  be  in  an  arrange- 
ment where  the  division  of  profit  will  be  materially  lessened  by  reason  of 
the  fact  that  we  still  have  the  competition  of  Germany,  France,  and  Italy 
to  meet. 

Will  you  explain  what  that  arrangement  was  for  the  manufacture 
of  nitroglycerin  powder  and  nitrocellulose  powder  so  that  we  can 
understand  it,  and  just  state  what  the  arrangement  was  about. 

Mr.  Casey.  Du  Pont  was  looked  upon  as  a  nitrocellulose  powder 
manufacturer. 

Senator  Clark.  Do  you  manufacture  nitroglycerin  powder? 

Mr.  Casey.  No. 

Senator  Clark.  Not  at  all? 

Mr.  Casey.  "We  did  a  little  shotgun  powder  business,  whereas  the 
English  have  always  been  looked  upon  as  nitroglycerin  powder 
manufacturers. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2639 

Senator  Clark.  This  letter  refers  to  "  military  propellants." 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is  all  I  am  talking  about. 

Senator  Clark.  In  the  statement  on  page  2  which  I  just  read  you 
say  that  you  fear  German  competition.  This  letter  was  written  in 
1919.  Did  you  understand  at  that  time,  in  1919,  that  Germany  was 
making  and  ex]3orting  military  propellants? 

Mr.  Casey.  No  ;  but  I  thought  there  was  a  possibility  that  at  any 
time  they  might  be  allowed  to. 

Senator  Clark.  In  other  words,  you  thought  there  might  be  a 
modification  of  the  Versailles  Treaty,  which  you  had  to  take  into 
contemplation  in  the  agreement  which  you  might  make  with  Nobel  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Correct. 

Senator  Clark.  I  will  read  further  in  that  letter  [reading]  : 

The  above  indicates  the  practical  side,  but  there  is  another  angle  which  in 
my  mind  is  more  important,  and  that  is,  that  by  making  an  arrangement  to 
divide  profits  on  siales  of  military  explosives,  we  are  inviting  the  attack  of 
unfriendly  people  and  miickrakers.  No  matter  how  clean  the  arrangement  may 
be,  it  is  bound  to  be  misconstrued.  We  will  be  accused  of  exchanging  Govern- 
ment information  with  England.  Our  explanation  that  this  is  but  a  selling 
arrangement  will  not  alter  the  fact  that  in  order  to  divide  profits,  those  profits 
are  based  on  some  cost.  That  cost  will  be  stated  to  be  the  United  States  Gov- 
ernment cost.  Therefore  we  will  be  informing  England  as  to  what  it  isi  costing 
the  United  States  to  manufacture  its  powder.  We  will  also  be  accused  of 
informing  England  as  to  the  quantity  of  powder  for  military  purposes  made 
in  the  United  States,  how  much  is  exported,  and  how  much  the  United  States 
has. 

Major,  those  objections  were  very  valid,  were  they  not?  If  this 
agreement  had  been  made  there  would  have  been  a  very  valid  objec- 
tion that  it  did  disclose  information  based  on  cost,  and  that  in  order 
to  determine  the  basis  it  would  be  necessary  to  disclose  the  United 
States  Government  cost? 

Mr.  Casey.  As  I  said,  that  is  what  we  would  be  accused  of. 

Senator  Clark.  You  could  have  been  accused  of  it  very  justly? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  No,  sir. 

Senator  Clark.  Why  not? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Because  the  cost  of  Government  powder 
might  be  very  different  than  the  cost  of  powder  shipped  down  there. 
You  take  the  cost  of  Government  powder  provided  in  1918  to  the 
United  States,  and  it  certainly  had  no  relation  to  any  powder  we  ever 
made  before. 

Senator  Clark.  You  do  not  mean  the  cost,  but  the  selling  price? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Both.  They  were  both  way  below  what  was 
ever  manufactured  before. 

Senator  Clark.  It  did  not  cost  you  less  to  manufacture? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  cost  us  less  to  manufacture  and  it  was 
sold  for  less. 

Senator  Clark.  It  cost  you  less  to  manufacture  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  cost  us  less  to  manufacture  than  ever 
before. 

Senator  Clark.  It  did  not  cost  you  less  to  manufacture  powder 
for  the  United  States  Goverinnent  than  before? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  certainly  did,  because  we  were  in  larger 
production. 

Senator  Clark.  In  the  manufacture  of  powder  in  1918,  of  com- 
parable kind,  it  did  not  cost  you  any  less  to  manufacture  the  powder 


2640  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

you  furnished  to  the  United  States  Government  than  the  powder  you 
furnished  to  any  other  government  during  that  period? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  is  here  in  the  record,  that  is,  the  records 
are  here  to  show  it  exactly,  and  I  believe  it  was  less,  because  of  the 
larger  volume  of  manufacture,  and  also  we  began  getting  materials 
at  lower  cost  after  the  United  States  went  into  the  war. 

Senator  Clark.  But  if  you  manufactured  during  the  period  1918 — 
did  you  manufacture  exclusively  for  the  United  States  Government 
after  we  got  into  the  war,  or  did  you  start  to  manufacture  to  some 
extent  for  the  Allies  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  We  manufactured  for  the  Allies  the  orders 
we  had  uncompleted. 

Senator  Clark.  That  is  what  I  say.  If  you  manufactured  the 
same  powder,  in  the  same  factory,  or  a  similar  kind,  and  sold  some 
to  the  United  States  and  some  to  the  Allies,  it  did  not  cost  you  less 
to  manufacture  for  the  United  States  than  the  Allies? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  might  have. 

Senator  Clark.  That  is  the  point  I  am  making,  Mr.  du  Pont. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  At  any  rate,  the  exact  cost  of  manufactur- 
ing powder  cannot  be  known,  but  the  approximate  cost  must  be 
known.  The  approximate  cost  of  manufacture  must  be  known  to  the 
Nobel  people  as  well  as  to  us.  The  approximate  cost  of  manufacture, 
whether  it  costs  55  cents  or  53  cents,  would  be  utterly  immaterial. 

Senator  Clark.  But  in  setting  up  your  cost  base,  is  not  Major 
Casey's  suggestion  here  well  taken,  that  the  cost  would  be  what  is 
the  United  States  Government  cost? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  think  that  is  necessarily  so. 

Senator  Clark.  Therefore  it  would  be  informing  England  as  to 
what  it  cost  the  United  States  to  manufacture  it. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  think  the  cost  of  a  lot  of  powder  sold  in 
South  America  would  be  very  different  than  what  it  cost  in  the 
United  States. 

Senator  Clark.  Major  Casey  goes  on  [reading]  : 

In  spite  of  the  fact  that  on  interchange  of  information  on  patents,  military 
explosives  are  specifically  exempted,  we  will  be  attacked  with  the  statement 
that  by  informing  them  of  the  sales  and  the  costs  on  which  the  profits  are 
based,  that  we  cannot  avoid  informing  them  regarding  compositions. 

Is  that  objection  not  well  taken? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is  again  on  the  same  premise.  We  can  be  ac- 
cused of  a  lot  of  things. 

Senator  Clark.  I  understand  you  can  be  accused  of  a  lot  of  things, 
but  I  am  asking  your  opinion  whether  you  could  be  fairly  accused. 
This  was  an  intercompany  memorandum.  I  understand  you  said 
you  could  be  accused  of  it.  What  I  am  trying  to  find  out  now  is 
whether  it  is  your  opinion  that  you  could  have  been  accused  of  it 
with  justice. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  am  trying  at  this  time  to  make  the  strongest  case 
that  I  possibly  can. 

Senator  Clark.  I  understand. 

Mr.  Casey.  To  something  to  which  I  objected  personally. 

Senator  Clark.  What  was  your  opinion  as  to  the  justice  of  those 
accusations  which  might  be  made? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  I  have  stated  pretty  clearly,  Senator,  that  they 
might  be  just  or  unjust. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2641 

Senator  Clark.  I  understand  you  said  they  might  be  just  or  un- 
just, but  I  am  trying  to  find  out  your  opinion  as  to  whether  they 
would  be  just  or  unjust.  You  are  an  expert  on  the  subject,  and  I 
know  you  have  an  opinion  as  to  whether  they  were  just  or  unjust. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  felt  most  of  them  would  have  been  unjust,  but  we 
were  still  open  to  attack. 

Senator  Clark.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  your  present  arrangement 
with  I.  C.  I.,  while  it  is  termed  a  "  selling  arrangement ",  does  pro- 
vide for  a  division  of  the  profits  and  would  be  open  to  the  same 
objections  that  you  raise  there,  would  it  not? 

Mr.  Casey.  Not  on  the  basis  that  I  was  fearful  of  at  this  time. 
That  is  because  any  division  of  profits  is  a  variable  proposition,  de- 
pending on  the  particular  transaction. 

The  fact  of  the  matter  is,  that  after  we  have  added  selling  expense, 
travel  expense,  and  so  forth,  we  do  not  have  a  profit,  in  a  great 
many  cases. 

Senator  Clark.  Nevertheless,  the  division  takes  place  on  the  divi- 
sion of  cost,  and  your  suggestion  here  that  this  agreement  which  was 
under  discussion  would  be  subject  to  the  attack  that  it  was  based  on 
cost,  which  would  be  taking  the  United  States  Government  cost  and 
would  disclose  the  volume  and  also  the  composition,  would  apply 
as  much  to  the  existing  agreement  with  I.C.I,  as  it  would  to  this 
agreement,  would  it  not.  Major?  "Without  going  into  the  question  as 
to  whether  the  attack  is  just  or  unjust,  whatever  you  said  about  this 
agreement  might  as  fairly  be  said  about  your  existing  agreement 
with  I.C.I. ?     Is  that  not  true? 

Mr.  Casey.  Except  for  the  facts  being  different.  As  I  said  before, 
I  was  afraid  an  arrangement  would  be  entered  into.  I  was  not  fa- 
miliar with  the  contemplated  arrangement,  and  I  was  afraid  an 
arrangement  might  be  entered  into  where  there  would  be  a  division 
of  the  profits  based  on  our  plant  costs. 

Now,  as  the  matter  stands  today,  as  I  have  just  explained,  there 
is  no  such  animal.  It  is  simply  the  result  of  a  year's  costs.  We  have 
probably  gotten  the  net  return  after  all  expenses  have  been  included 
of  a  certain  amount,  and  it  bears  no  relation  to  the  cost,  and  nobody 
could  possibly  take  that  figure  and  say  "  the  powder  cost  them  so 
much."    There  is  the  distinction. 

Senator  Clark.  Major,  the  agreement  provides  for  a  division  of 
profits,  does  it  not  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  No  ;  the  agreement  does  not  provide  for  it. 

Senator  Clark.  What  does  it  provide? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Costs. 

Senator  Clark.  Profits  are  necessarily  based  on  costs,  are  thev  not, 
Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  did  not  hear  your  statement. 

Senator  Clark.  It  is  impossible  to  have  any  determination  of 
profit  in  any  commercial  enterprice  and  not  have  a  determination 
of  the  cost,  is  it  not,  Major? 

Mr.  Casey.  It  may  sound  to  you  like  a  fine  distinction,  but  what 
I  was  trying  to  avoid  at  that  time,  in  my  own  opinion,  waB  any 
arrangement  whereby  it  would  be  based  on  our  cost  at  the  mill, 
which  is  really  what  we  would  term  equivalent  to  Government  cost. 


2642  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

On  the  other  hand,  under  the  present  arrangement  we  know  what 
our  own  figures  are,  what  the  mill  cost  is,  and  then  we  have  to  add 
to  that  every  item  of  expense  which  we  have  been  put  to  during  the 
period  in  which  that  powder  was  sold.  The  result  is,  on  a  number  of 
occasions  where  over  our  mill  cost  we  might  show  a  profit,  the  net 
result  will  be  an  actual  loss  because  of  the  small  quantity  involved 
and  the  selling  expenses  and  everything  else  which  goes  on  all  the 
time. 

Senator  Clark.  Major,  do  I  understand  under  this  existing  agree- 
ment with  I.  C.  I.,  when  you  go  to  settle  with  them,  you  would  just 
set  up  your  cost  figure  as  a  flat  figure,  as  a  flat  cost,  without  breaking 
it  down  into  your  mill  cost  or  anything  else  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  There  is  one  feature  of  that  thing  which  has  not  been 
brought  out,  and  that  is  this :  At  the  time  we  had  the  discussion  with 
Mitchell  we  said :  "  There  is  one  thing  we  want  distinctly  under- 
stood. There  is  going  to  be  no  break-down  as  to  where  we  get  our 
final  figures.  That  is  one  thing  we  will  not  agree  to.  Unless  you  are 
willing  to  accept  our  figures  as  to  what  we  say  the  powder  costs  us 
at  the  end  of  a  year's  period  of  transaction,  we  will  not  enter  into 
the  agreement." 

Senator  Clark.  So  that  under  the  agreement  you  do  not  break 
down  the  cost? 

Mr.  Casey.  We  refused  to  give  the  data. 

Senator  Cl^vrk.  And  refused  to  give  any  information  on  mill  cost  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  And  unless  they  are  willing  to  accept  our  figures  and 
we  are  willing  to  accept  theirs  on  the  same  evidence,  there  is  none 
applied. 

Senator  Clark.  That  is,  under  the  agreement  you  have  no  break- 
down of  the  figures  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  We  absolutely  refused  to  do  it. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think.  Senator,  the  present  agreement 
will  speak  for  itself,  but  it  is  my  understanding  that  it  does  not  refer 
to  costs,  but  it  refers  to  profits,  and  the  profit  figures  are  to  be 
accepted  without  break-down.  It  is  not  a  break-down  of  cost,  but  a 
break-down  of  profit. 

Senator  Clark.  It  is  impossible  to  figure  profit  without  figuring 
costs.     Profit  is  the  difference  between  the  selling  price  and  cost. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  You  understand  it  means  that  it  is  not 
breaking  down  cost,  that  it  is  a  question  of  breaking  down  profits, 
and  Ave  do  not  have  to  break-down  our  profits. 

Senator  Clark.  If  yon  do  not  break-down  your  costs,  I  can  see  that 
Major  Casey's  explanation  of  the  difference  between  the  contract 
which  he  is  discussing  here  and  the  contract  with  I.C.I,  is  a  valid 
distinction. 

Now,  Major,  I  will  read  further  from  the  same  letter  [reading]  : 

In  addition,  the  attack  made  on  us  in  Harper's  Weekly 

Mr.  Casey.  Have  you  not  skipped  one  paragraph  ? 

Senator  Clark.  I  read  that,  but  I  will  read  it  again  [reading]  : 

In  spite  of  the  fact  that  on  interchange  of  information  on  patents,  military 
explosives 

I  was  just  asking  you  about  that. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  think  you  finished  the  paragraph. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2643 

Senator  Clark  (continuing  reading)  : 

*  *  *  military  explosives  are  siiecifically  exempted,  we  will  be  attacked  with 
the  statement  that  by  informing  them  of  the  sales  and  the  costs  on  which  the 
profits  are  based,  that  we  cannot  avoid  informing  them  regarding  compositions. 
This  arrangement  will  give  Representatives  in  Congress  just  the  ammunition 
they  are  looking  for  to  attack  us.  and  we  will  be  accused  of  bein.cj  traitors; 
of  giving  away  Government  secrets,  etc.  All  we  have  to  do  is  to  look  over 
the  hearings  on  the  different  appropriation  bills  to  realize  what  thin  ice  we 
would  be  on. 

In  addition,  the  attack  made  on  us  in  Harper's  Weekly  in  1914  is  still  pretty 
fresii  in  our  minds,  and  we  still  hear  of  this  occasionally. 

What  is  that,  Major? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is  the  attack  by  a  man  named  Post,  where  he  ac- 
cused the  company  of  giving  Government  information  to  Germany. 

Senator  Clark.  You  mean  the  du  Pont  Co.  as  distinguished  from 
munition  makers  in  general  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes;  and,  as  I  understand  it,  he  referred  to  a  case 
where  the  United  States  Navy  needed  brown  prismatic  powder. 

At  the  request  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Navy  I  believe  Mr.  Alfred 
I.  du  Pont  went  to  Germany  and  made  an  arrangement  whereby  we 
would  get  the  "  know-how  "  of  brown  prismatic  powder. 

Senator  Clark.  You  mean  get  it  from  Germany  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  mean  get  it  from  Germany.  In  connection  with  that, 
of  course,  we  had  to  agree,  which  was  approved  by  the  Secretary 
of  the  Navy,  to  let  them  have  information  which  we  might  develop 
in  connection  with  this  same  powder.  That  was  a  part  of  the  agree- 
ment, and  the  only  agreement  on  which  the  Germans  would  let  us 
have  the  information. 

Senator  Clark.  That  was  the  Harper's  Weekly  article  to  which 
3^ou  referred? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Clark  (reading)  : 

The  testimony  and  exhibits  at  the  time  of  the  du  Pont  dissolution  suit,  the 
testimony  and  exhibits  at  the  time  of  the  Post-du  Pont  libel  suit,  are  con- 
clusive evidence  of  the  risk  we  are  running. 

What  was  the  Post  libel  suit? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  was  a  libel  suit  growing  out  of  the  Harper's 
Weekly  article. 

Senator  Clark.  Who  was  the  Post  involved  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  He  was  the  man  who  wrote  the  article. 

Senator  Clark.  Did  j^ou  sue  him  for  libel? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Clark.  What  was  the  judgment? 

Mr.  Casey.  Somebody  else  can  tell  j^ou. 

Senator  Clark.  Do  you  know.  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  No,  sir. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  ;Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont  can  tell  you.  I  think 
we  won  it. 

Senator  Clark.  Did  you  get  judgment  from  Post? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pokt.  I  have  no  recollection  of  it. 

Senator  Clark.  I  think  some  of  you  would  remember  it  if  you 
liad  won  the  suit.     [Reading:] 

In  that  case  there  was  this  difference:  When  we  were  accused  of  inter- 
changing information  with  Germany  on  account  of  the  arrangement  we  had 
with  the  Rhenish-Westphalian  Co.,  this  agreement  had  been  made  at  the 
request  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Navy. 


2644  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Is  that  the  arrangement  which  you  just  referred  to,  Major? 
Mr.  Casey.  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Clark.  That  is  the  reason  I  was  reading  this,  to  show 
what  the  arrangement  was.     [Continuing  reading:] 

The  arrangement  which  we  are  contemplating  at  the  present  time  has  no 
such  foundation  and,  I  am  sure,  would  not  be  loolied  on  with  favor  by  the 
officials  of  the  Army  or  Navy.  Furthermore,  I  fear  that  such  an  arrangement 
as  we  are  contemphiting  would  jeopardize  our  present  friendly  relations  with 
the  Army  and  Navy,  for  their  representatives  would  hesitate  about  taking  us 
into  their  confidence  for  fear  that  the  information  would  reach  England. 

Was  this  arrangement  made  with  Nobel  at  that  time.  Major? 

Mr.  Casey.  There  was  an  arrangement,  but  some  of  our  objections 
were  observed,  but  I  do  not  know  exactly  to  what  extent. 

Senator  Clark.  Which  ones  were  observed? 

Mr.  Casey.  The  interchange  of  information  was  definitely  out, 
because  there  was  a  saving  clause  in  that  agreement  about  Govern- 
ment objection  being  a  valid  objection,  and  there  was  always  Gov- 
ernment objection.     I  think  that  was  brought  out  the  other  day. 

You  did  not  read  the  last  paragraph,  and  I  do  not  know  whether 
it  is  important  or  not. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  think  you  are  getting  confused  between 
the  exchange  of  information  agreement  and  the  South  American 
agency  agreement,  are  you  not? 

Mr.  Casey.  No. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  This  was  a  proposed  agency  agreement. 

Mr.  Casey.  This  was  the  agreement  which  I  understand  was  being 
contemplated  at  the  time  with  I.C.I. 

Senator  Clark.  I  would  be  glad  to  have  you  read  the  last  one,  if 
you  want. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  have  got  the  information,  Senator,  with 
regard  to  the  Post  libel  suit.  Major  Casey's  recollection,  evidently, 
was  not  quite  correct. 

Post  wrote  the  article  in  Harper's  Weekly.  One  of  our  men  criti- 
cized the  article  and  referred  to  it  as  libelous.  Post  sued  the  du 
Pont  Co.  for  that  statement,  and  the  judge  instructed  the  jury  to 
find  that  in  fact  the  article  w^as  libelous,  so  that  the  company's  posi- 
tion was  vindicated. 

relations  of  united  states  army  and  navy  officers  with  munitions 

makers 

Senator  Clark.  I  see.  I  now  read  a  letter  dated  May  IT,  1922, 
which  I  will  ask  to  be  marked  appropriately. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  992  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2821.) 

Senator  Clark.  This  is  a  memorandum  from  W.  H.  O'Gorman, 
assistant  director,  a  memorandum  of  his  trip  to  Washington  on  May 
16,  1922  [reading]  : 

Called  on  Major  O'Leary,  small-arms  division,  regarding  purchase  from 
Frankford  Arsenal  of  160,000  cupro  nickel  bullet  envelops,  lead  plugs,  and  sur- 
rated  plugs  for  incendiary  ammunition.  Major  O'Leary  iiad  received  a  letter 
from  Major  Whelen  on  this  subject.  He  stated  that  it  was  not  regular  proced- 
ure to  sell  material  which  was  being  held  in  reserve,  but  due  to  the  fact  that  we 
needed  the  components  in  a  hurry,  he  would  oblige  us  and  would  at  once  notify 
Frankford  Arsenal  to  make  the  sale  under  the  conditions  outlined  in  Major 
Wheien's  letter  of  May  15. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2645 

Who  is  Major  Whelen? 

Mr.  Casey.  Major  Whelen  at  that  time — I  may  not  be  absokitely 
right,  but  I  think  he  was  either  on  the  technical  staff  on  small-arms 
matters  or  in  the  ammunition  division. 

Senator  Clark.  He  was  in  the  Army  at  that  time  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Clark.  I  was  trying  to  find  out  whether  he  was  your 
representative,  or  in  the  Army. 

Mr.  Casey.  No,  sir. 

Senator  Clark  (reading)  : 

Major  O'Leary  also  stated  that  we  could  obtain  the  material  ou  Thursday, 
May  18. 

Now,  when  Major  O'Leary  said  that  it  was  not  regular  procedure 
to  sell  material  which  is  being  held  in  reserve,  he  really  meant  there 
was  no  authority  in  law  for  permitting  it,  did  he  not? 

Mr.  Casey.  No;  there  was  authority  in  law  to  sell. 

Senator  Clark.  Out  of  the  reserve  stock? 

Mr.  Casey.  Provided  it  was  going  to  be  replaced  and  replaced 
very  soon.  But  this  thing  was  a  proposition  which  looked  like  good 
business,  if  we  might  have  difficulty  in  getting  these  component  ma- 
terials. As  it  turned  out  afterwards,  we  found  we  had  no  difficulty  in 
getting  the  components  from  other  sources,  so  that  nothing  happened 
from  this  thing. 

Senator  Clark.  These  bullets  were  to  be  taken  out  of  the  reserve 
stock  which  the  Government  had,  were  they  not? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  so.  That  was  the  intention.  It  was  an  Eng- 
lish bullet. 

Senator  Clark.  They  were  incendiary  bullets? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Clark.  Do  you  know  what  government  they  were  to  be 
sold  to? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  this  sounds  very  much  like  Japan. 

Senator  Clark.  I  call  your  attention  to  a  tabulation  of  foreign 
business  from  the  armistice  to  December  31,  1933,  not  including 
United  States  business,  taken  from  the  files.  I  find  that  in  one  item, 
Japan,  incendiary  cartridges,  quantity,  100,000;  total,  $22,750. 

(The  tabulation  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  993  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2822.) 

Senator  Clark.  Would  that  indicate  to  your  mind.  Major,  on  that 
that  part  of  this  material  you  Avere  trying  to  get  from  the  United 
States  Government  was  for  sale  to  Japan? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  Japanese  incident  is  very  interesting.  They 
came  to  us  and  wanted  to  get  150,000  rounds  of  .303  British  in- 
cendiary ammunition.  The  first  statement  I  made  was,  "Why  do 
you  come  to  us  for  a  British  cartridge  with  a  British  bullet^  the 
Buckingham  bullet?  "  The  answer  was  that  du  Pont  had  made  such 
a  splendid  reputation  in  the  loading  of  both  tracer  and  incendiary 
bullets  during  the  war  that  that  is  what  they  told  me. 

They  were  advised  we  were  not  ammunition  manufacturers.  We 
Avould  have  to  get  the  components  from  outside.  In  our  search  for 
components  we  thought  it  was  possible  that  Frankford  arsenal  might 
have  some  components  for  the  .303  British.  If  they  did  not  hc-Tve, 
it  might  be  possible  to  utilize  certain  of  those  components  by  re- 
forming and  swedging  to  raise  the   diameter  of  the  bullet  "from 


2646  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

.308  to  .311.  But,  as  I  say,  before  the  discussion  had  hardly  ended, 
we  found  we  were  able  to  get  the  components  not  only  for  the 
ammunition  but  for  the  bullets  from  another  source  without  any 
difficulty. 

Senator  Clark.  Your  sales  charge  shows  that  you  sold  240,000 
rounds  of  that  ammunition.  Did  any  part  of  that  come  from  the 
United  States  Government? 

Mr.  Casey.  None  of  it. 

Senator  Clark.  Because  you  found  another  place  you  could  buy  it? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Clark.  But  you  had  made  arrangements  with  the  United 
States  Government  to  supply  you  160,000  rounds  from  their  reserve 
stock  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  If  we  could  use  it,  they  were  willing  to  help  us  to 
tide  over  this  proposition. 

Senator  Clark.  Was  the  United  States  Government  apprised  that 
that  was  for  sale  to  a  foreign  government? 

Mr.  Casey.  Oh,  yes. 

Senator  Clark.  To  Japan? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes.  The  fact  of  the  matter  was,  when  the}^  realized 
that  Japan  could  have  gone  right  to  England  and  have  probably 
gotten  this  ammunition  out  of  stock,  they  were  very  glad  to  see 
American  manufacturers  get  the  business. 

Senator  Clark.  I  will  read  you  fui'ther  from  this  memorandum 
of  Mr.  O'Gorman's,  "  Exhibit  No.  992  ",  recounting  his  trip  to  Wash- 
ington May  17,  1922.  Beginning  with  the  second  paragraph  at  the 
top  of  the  second  page.  Major : 

Called  on  General  Humphrey  and  asked  him  what  he  knew  about  Mr.  A.  W. 
Randall. 

AVlio  is  General  Humphrey? 

Mr.  Casey.  General  Humphrey  was  a  retired  quartermaster  gen- 
eral of  the  Army,  who  went  with  Colonel  Buckner  on  some  special 
Avork  around  about  somewhere  between  1908  and  1912,  I  am  not 
quite  sure ;  but  he  had  been  retired  at  that  time.  When  I  took  over 
Colonel  Buckner's  work  after  the  Avar,  I  still  had  General  Humphrey 
on  a  nominal  retainer.  Therefore,  when  there  was  occasion  to  find 
out  what  connection  this  Captain  Randall  had  with  the  Polish 
Government,  or  whether  he  knew  them  or  not,  I  got  hold  of  General 
Plumphrey  and  asked  him  if  he  could  not  find  out. 

Senator  Clark.  Mr.  du  Pont,  have  you  a  list,  or  could  you  make 
us  a  list,  of  the  former  Army  and  naval  officers  that  have  been 
employed  by  the  du  Pont  Co.  since  the  war? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  We  certainly  could. 

Senator  Clark.  I  come  across  the  names  of  captains,  majors,  col- 
onels, and  generals  here.  Would  you  make  us  a  list  for  the  record 
of  just  how  many  former  Army  officers  you  have  employed? 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator,  by  that  you  mean  regular  officers,  do  you  not  ? 

Senator  Clark.  Yes;  I  do;  of  course. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  we  could  almost  recite  that. 

There  was  General  Humphrey^ — he  is  the  first  one  I  know  of — 
formerly  Quartermaster  General,  who,  I  think,  retired  because  of 
the  age  limit,  64  years.  He  came  with  us  in  a  period — I  am  not  quite 
sure  of  the  exact  date.    Then  when  we  got  into  large  production,  in 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2647 

the  early  stages  of  the  World  War,  and  required  a  little  better  super- 
vision, a  man  of  executive  ability  to  handle  commissary  and  welfare 
work,  we  got  Maj.  Kobert  E.  Wood,  who  had  been  with  General 
Goethals  down  in  the  Panama  Canal  Zone.  He  then  took  over  this 
welfare  work  at  Carneys  Point.  He  was  only  with  us  a  short  time 
when  he  left  to  go  with  the  Barber  Asphalt  Co.  From  that  he  went 
into  the  service.  I  believe  he  eventually  became  Quartermaster  Gen- 
eral of  the  A.  E.  F.     He  is  now  president  of  Sears  Roebuck. 

He  w^as  succeeded  when  he  left  by  Maj.  Frank  O.  Whitlock.  He 
had  likewise  been  with  General  Goethals  in  the  Panama  Canal.  He 
continued  on  that  welfare  work  until  his  services  with  the  company 
ceased,  around  1920  or  1921,  somewhere  in  there. 

The  only  other  Army,  Navy,  or  Marine  officer  we  had  was  Maj. 
L.  W.  T.  Waller,  Jr.  He  had  resigned  from  the  Marine  Corps  and 
had  started  in  a  business  of  his  own,  supplying  rust-preventative 
compounds,  gun-cleaner  materials,  and  so  forth,  under  the  name  of 
Conversion  Products  Corporation. 

When  we  first  started  our  attempt  really  to  make  a  study  of  game- 
conservation  work,  because  of  Major  Waller's  interest  as  a  sports- 
man and  his  knowledge  of  shotgun  conditions  and  the  use  of  the 
shotgun  in  hunting  game — and  naturally  with  that  goes  the  question 
of  the  entire  study  of  wildlife — he  took  on  this  work  and  continued 
from  about  1928  until  possibly  1932.  I  think  that  was  the  end  of 
that  service. 

That  represents  four  officers.  None  of  those  men  had  any  connec- 
tion whatsoever  with  military  work,  unless  you  would  call  the  service 
of  Wood  and  Whitlock  on  commissary  and  welfare  work  in  connec- 
tion with  military  production. 

Senator  Clark.  I  remember  General  Rice.  Was  he  not  in  your 
employ  for  a  while? 

Mr.  Casey.  General  Rice  was  another  story. 

Senator  Clark.  He  was  formerly  Chief  of  Ordnance? 

Mr.  Casey.  He  was  former  Chief  of  Ordnance:  that  is,  of  the 
A.  E.  F. 

Senator  Clark.  Yes. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  we  brought  out  the  other  day  that  Colonel 
Taylor  had  urged  on  us  to  try  to  get 

Senator  Clark.  Was  Colonel  Taylor  an  Army  officer  or  was  that 
a  courtesy  title  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  National  Army.  He  went  to  Plattsburg.  I  think  at 
the  armistice  he  was  still  at  Fort  Sill,  commanding  officer  of  the 
Nineteenth  Field  Artillery,  and  also  acting  as  instructor  in  field  artil- 
lery. But  he  kept  urging  us  to  let  him  have  a  man  who  was  techni- 
cally equipped  to  discuss  the  question  of  gun  design,  because  we  were 
running  against  that  problem  in  trying  to  fit  our  powder  to  guns, 
especially  where  these  different  nations  wanted  to  increase  their 
velocity. 

So  I  went  to  General  Williams  and  asked  him  if  he  knew  where 
there  was  such  a  man.  He  said,  "  Have  you  considered  General 
Rice?"  General  Rice  by  this  time  had  retired.  I  said,  "No",  I 
had  not  considered  General  Rice,  because  I  never  thought  for  a 
moment  he  would  consider  it. 

He  said,  "  I  do  not  suppose  the  remuneration  can  be  very  great, 
but  I  think  you  would  find  this,  that  while  General  Rice  has  retired 


2648  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

from  the  Army,  at  the  same  time  he  still  has  a  tremendous  interest 
in  all  their  problems." 

So  I  got  in  touch  with  General  Rice,  and  I  must  say  frankly  to 
my  surprise  he  said,  "  I  would  be  tickled  to  death  to  do  that,  because 
it  will  just  keep  me  going  on  it." 

So  General  Rice  went  to  Europe.  He  could  not  operate  in  this 
country.  He  had  absolutely  no  connection  with  any  negotiations 
we  had  with  the  United  States  Government  because  of  the  clause 
in  the  retired  pay. 

Senator  Clark.  I  understand  that. 

Mr.  Casey.  He  was  only  used  on  the  other  side  as  a  technical 
adviser.     I  think  that  has  been  brought  out. 

Senator  Clark.  How  about  Colonel  Simons? 

Mr.  Casey.  Colonel  Simons  had  been  with  the  du  Pont  Co.  a 
great  many  years  ago  in  black  powder.  He  was  an  engineer,  like- 
wise. He  left  us  and  went  with  the  U.  S.  Finishing  Co.,  at  Provi- 
dence. I  believe  while  there  he  joined  the  Rhode  Island  Guard,  and 
he  went  overseas  with  the  Twenty-sixth  Division  in  the  Artillery. 
He  went  over  there  and  because  of  the  fact  that  he  knew  several  lan- 
guages, they  grabbed  him  and  put  him  on  the  staff  as  a  liasion 
officer. 

When  he  came  back — I  did  not  know  Simons  very  well ;  I  simply 
had,  you  might  say,  a  bowing  acquaintance.  But  you  may  remember 
yesterday  this  incident  was  brought  up  of  an  unsatisfactory  repre- 
sentative in  South  America.  So  I  got  Simons  on,  because  he  is  a 
gentleman,  to  send  him  down  to  South  America  to  try  to  undo  some 
of  the  results  that  were  left  there  by  reason  of  the  previous  agent. 
Now,  you  cannot  call  him  an  Army  officer. 

Senator  Clark.  I  was  inquiring.  I  did  not  know  whether  he  was 
regular  or  not. 

Mr.  Casey.  You  may  say  I  am  one.  I  saw  it  in  the  paper  the 
other  day  I  was  one. 

Question  (from  the  press).  Wliat  are  you? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  enlisted  in  the  Seventy-first  New  York  in  the  Span- 
ish-American War  and  served  through  it  as  a  private.  I  have  been 
in  the  National  Guard  ever  since.  I  was  on  the  Mexican  border 
as  a  battalion  commander  of  infantry.  My  regiment  was  converted 
into  field  artillery.  There  were  only  two  battalions  provided  for 
at  that  time,  and  I  was  out. 

Senator  Clark.  I  do  not  blame  an  infantryman  for  getting  out  of 
the  artillery.    I  will  put  in  with  you  on  that. 

Mr.  Casey.  Then  we  check  on  one  thing. 

Senator  Clark.  Captain  Gillis  was  also  a  naval  officer,  was  he 
not? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes.  He  was  an  ex-naval  officer,  retired,  as  I  stated 
the  other  day,  but  you  could  not  call  him  a  du  Pont  man,  he  was  so 
finely  divided  between 

Senator  Clark.  According  to  your  statement  he  was  divided  up 
into  a  great  many  parts,  but  he  evidently  put  in  a  good  deal  of  time 
on  du  Pont  business,  as  shown  by  the  correspondence. 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator,  in  the  correspondence  there  were  a  great  many 
of  the  paragraphs,  especially  his  references  to  the  political  situation 
and  such  things,  that  were  common  to  all  his  letters,  that  he  sent 
to  every  concern  he  represented. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2649' 

Senator  Clark.  I  will  go  on  with  this  letter. 

The  Chairman.  Have  you  finished  reciting  those? 

Mr.  Casey.  If  there  are  any  others,  I  do  not  believe  I  know  of 
them,  and  I  do  not  believe  you  do. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  There  was  another  group. 

Senator  Clark.  The  title  of  Colonel  Buckner,  was  that  a  courtesy 
title? 

Mr.  Casey.  He  was  a  full-fledged  Kentucky  colonel,  from  Owens- 
boro,  Kentucky. 

Senator  Clark.  That  was  just  a  Kentucky  colonel,  was  it? 

Mr,  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Clark.  That  was  before  the  days  of  the  present  Governor 
of  Kentucky,  though,  was  it  not? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes.  He  qualified,  by  the  way.  He  met  every  re- 
quirement that  was  expected  of  a  Kentucky  colonel. 

Senator  Clark  (reading  from  "  Exhibit  No.  992  ")  : 

Called  on  General  Humphrey  and  asked  him  what  he  knew  about  Mr.  A.  W. 
Randall.  Told  General  Humphrey  that  Mr.  Randall  mentioned  his  name  during 
a  conversation  and  further  stated  that  he,  Mr.  Randall,  was  very  well  con- 
nected with  the  Polish  Government.  General  Humphrey  reported  that  he  knew 
Captain  Randall  very  well  in  a  business  way;  that  Captain  Randall  was  for- 
merly chief  of  transportation  for  the  Polish  Mission  in  this  country,  and  as 
General  Humphrey  supplied  boats  and  arranged  for  transportation  of  materials 
purchased  by  the  Polish  Mission  from  the  United  States  Government,  he  came 
in  contact  with  Captain  Randall  a  great  deal. 

General  Humphrey  called  up  the  counselor  of  the  Polish  Embassy  and  in- 
quired as  to  whether  Captain  Randall  had  any  connection  with  them ;  also  as- 
to  what  they  thought  of  him.     I  was  permitted  to  listen  to  counselor's  reply — 

That  would  indicate  on  an  extension  phone — 

in  which  he  stated  that  he  had  not  seen  Randall  in  8  or  9  months  but  thought 
very  well  of  him.  General  Humphrey,  however,  believes  that  a  Maj.  C.  S. 
Marsden,  purchasing  agent  for  the  Polish  Mission,  would  be  of  greater  help  to 
us  in  negotiating  a  sale  of  military  iwwder  to  Poland.  He  further  stated  that 
it  was  quite  likely  that  he  himself  could  negotiate  the  deal  through  the  Polish 
Embassy,  where  he  is  very  well  thought  of  and  highly  regarded. 

At  that  time,  Major,  if  I  understand  you  correctly.  General  Hum- 
phrey was  on  the  pay  roll  of  the  du  Pont  Co. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Clark,  Do  you  recall  anything  about  this  transaction,. 
Major?    It  is  signed  by  Mr.  O'Gorman. 

Mr,  Casey,  Yes. 

Senator  Clark.  He  was  your  assistant,  was  he  not,  Major? 

Mr,  Casey.  Yes.  Capt.  W.  E.  Witsil,  who  had  been  my  assistant 
from  1914  and  then  had  left  to  go  into  the  service,  was  in  the  inspec- 
tion division  of  the  Ordnance  Department,  on  the  small  arms.  When 
he  came  back  he  promptly  resumed  his  old  duties.  Therefore  I  sent 
him  down  to  contact  this  man  Marsden. 

Senator  Clark.  First  let  me  understand  you.  This  Capt.  A.  W. 
Randall  approached  you  with  a  view  to  representing  you  in  negotia- 
tion with  Poland,  did  he  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  believe  he  did. 

Senator  Clark.  In  other  words,  he  was  not  at  this  time  connected 
Avith  the  Polish  Government  ? 

Mr,  Casey.  No. 

83876 — 35— PT  12 2 


2650  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Senator  Clark.  He  had  been  connected  with  the  Polish  Gov- 
ernment, but  was  at  this  time  approaching  you  witii  a  view  to  rep- 
resenting you,  and  also  investigating  his  standing  with  the  Polish 
Government  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Clark.  That  is  what  this  letter  would  indicate. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes;  that  is  right. 

Senator  Clark.  I  am  not  familiar  with  the  facts  except  as  shown 
in  the  letter. 

Mr.  Casey.  So  Captain  Witsil  contacted  Major  Marsden,  who  I 
believe  was  a  National  Army  officer,  but  he  had  been  either  assigned 
or  picked  up  by  the  newly  established  Polish  Government  to  advise 
them  on  a  great  many  matters  in  connection  with  the  formation  of 
a  national  defense.  So  after  contacting  Marsden,  Marsden  then 
said 

Senator  Clark.  This  letter  speaks  of  him  as  purchasing  agent  for 
the  Polish  Commission.  Was  he  purchasing  agent  for  the  Polish 
Commission  at  that  time,  do  you  know? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  believe  so.  That  may  have  been  so,  but  I  do 
not  believe  that  was  the  fact,  because  we  were  referred  to  a  Dr. 
Arkt,  who  was  head  of  the  Polish  Purchasing  Commission, 'which 
at  that  time  was  established  on  West  Fortieth  Street,  just  opposite 
the  public  library,  in  one  of  those  old  private  houses.  So,  therefore, 
from  that  time  on  all  our  contact  was  with  this  Dr.  Arkt  and  an 
associate  of  his  whose  name  I  cannot  remember  at  the  time. 

Senator  Clark.  What  did  General  Humphrey  do?      [Reading:] 

He  furt'acr  stated  that  it  was  quite  likely  that  lie  himself  could  negotiate  the 
deal  through  the  Polish  Embassy,  where  he  is  very  well  thought  of  and  highly 
regarded. 

Mr.  Casey.  He  did  not  do  anything  further. 

Senator  Clark.  He  did  not  do  anything  further  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  No;  just  as  soon  as  we  had  the  contact,  we  thought 
we  could  handle  it,  you  see.  General  Humphrey  was  pretty  well 
along  in  years  then.  He  was  64  when  he  retired  around  1910,  we 
will  say,  so  he  was  probably  74  at  this  time. 

Senator  Clark.  He  volunteered  to  handle  the  thing,  but  you  did 
not  accept  his  offer.    That  was  the  proposition,  was  it.  Major? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is  right. 

Senator  Clark.  I  now  call  your  attention  to  a  memorandum  signed 
by  Mr.  C.  I.  B.  Henning,  on  August  18,  1922,  of  a  visit  to  officers 
of  Bethlehem  Steel  Co.,  August  16. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  994  ", 
and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2823.) 

Senator  Clark.  Major,  I  believe  it  has  been  testified  here  who 
Mr.  Henning  was,  but  it  has  slipped  my  mind.  What  was  his 
official  connection? 

Mr.  Casey.  He  had  two  jobs.  One  was  assistant  director  of  sales. 
Later  on  he  became  technical  director  of  smokeless  powder  sales. 

Senator  Clark.  What  was  he  in  1922? 

Mr.  Casey.  He  was  assistant  director. 

Senator  Clark.  This  was  a  report  of  a  visit  to  officers  of  Bethle- 
hem Steel  Co.,  August  16.     [Reading:] 

Discussed  the  following  subjects  with  Messrs.  Struble,  Tioe,  Mixsell,  and 
Froelich. 


MUNITIONS    INDITSTRY  2651 

I  call  your  attention  to  paragraph  4.     [Reading :] 

Nothing  new  in  Brazilian  developments,  except  that  as  the  battleship  Mary- 
land, and  posRibly  also  the  Nevada  will  be  in  the  harbor  of  Rio  de  Janeiro  at 
the  time  of  the  exposition  to  represent  the  United  States,  the  Bethlehem  Steel 
Co.  is  supplying  the  officers  of  the  Maryland  with  data  on  Bethlehem  Steel  guns 
and  armament  for  appropriate  use.  We  will  endeavor  to  determine  to  what 
extent  this  suggestion  might  be  followed  to  our  advantage,  it  behig  primarily 
a  question  of  personalities,  etc. 

Major,  do  you  understand  that  the  "  appropriate  use  "  of  the  infor- 
mation referred  to  was  to  use  it  in  selling  Bethlehem  Steel  Co. 
products  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  would  imagine  that;  that  is,  not  by  having  them 
sell  it,  but  having  them  know  sufficient  about  it  so  that  if  they  are 
asked :  "  What  do  you  think  of  Bethlehem  products  " 

Senator  Clark,  In  other  words,  to  use  the  personnel  of  the  United 
States  Navy  as  peddlers  for  Bethlehem  Steel  guns  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  know  what  their  arrangement  with  them 
was. 

Senator  Clark.  What  do  you  understand  by  Henning's  sugges- 
tion?    [Reading:] 

AVe  will  endeavor  to  determine  to  what  extent  this  suggestion  mi2:ht  be 
followed  to  our  advantage,  it  being  primarily  a  question  of  personalities,  etc. 

Mr.  Casey.  Whatever  his  suggestion  was,  it  was  not  acted  on. 

Senator  Clark.  Was  not  acted  on? 

Mr.  Casey.  No. 

Senator  Clark.  Do  you  know  to  what  extent  it  was  acted  on  in  the 
interests  of  the  Bethlehem  Co.? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  have  not  the  slightest  idea. 

Senator  Clark.  You  never  heard  any  more  about  it? 

Mr.  Casey.  No. 

Senator,  I  have  some  data  here  which  might  assist  you. 

Senator  Clark.  Just  a  .minute,  Major.  This  statement,  "  We  will 
endeavor  to  determine  to  what  extent  this  suggestion  might  be  fol- 
lowed to  our  advantage  ",  would  certainly  indicate  that  so  far  as  one 
of  your  rather  prominent  employees,  Mr.  Henning,  was  concerned, 
he  had  no  compunction  against  using  naval  officers  as  salesmen  for 
munitions,  but  it  was  simply  a  question  of  contacting  the  right  man, 
was  it  not? 

Mr,  Casey.  You  must  realize 

Senator  Clark,  You  took  that  to  be  his  viewpoint  in  this  memo- 
randum ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont,  I  do  not  think  he  asked  that  they  be  used  as 
salesmen  at  all.  I  think  it  is  education.  You  want  to  crack  up  your 
product  to  everybody. 

Senator  Clark.  Advance  agents,  Mr.  du  Pont.  They  were  not 
actually,  probably,  going  to  close  the  transaction,  but  the  officers  of 
the  United  States  Navy  were  clearly  being  educated  by  the  Bethle- 
hem Steel  Co.  as  to  guns  and  armament,  the  phrase  here  is  "  for 
appropriate  use."  That  was  certainly  to  act  as  advance  agents  for 
the  real  salesmen  who  come  along  and  close  the  deal,  was  it  not? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know  what  "  advance  ajrent  "  is,  but 
if  you  mean  putting  out  some  good  advertising  matter  for  the  excel- 
lence of  our  wares,  we  are  not  a  bit  backward  in  doing  that.  I  would 
like  to  get  you  in  the  same  idea. 


2652  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Senator  Clark.  You  will  have  a  very  hard  time  doing  that,  Mr. 
dii  Pont,  I  assure  you. 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator,  just  as  a  matter  of  information  for  the  record, 
Gen.  Charles  F.  Humphrey  was  employed  January  1,  1908.  He  was 
off  the  salary  roll  June  4,  1926,  when  he  died. 

Senator  Clark.  He  held  on  pretty  well. 

Mr.  Casey.  He  did. 

Maj.  Kobert  E.  Wood  was  employed  July  30,  1915,  resigned 
November  7,  1915.  That  was,  I  stated,  to  go  with  the  Barber 
Asphalt  Co. 

Maj.  Frank  O.  Whitlock  succeeded  Wood;  employed  November  1, 
1915,  off  salary  roll  June  30,  1921. 

Our  recollection,  from  this  memorandum,  is  that  both  Wood  and 
Whittock  came  from  the  Panama  Canal  Zone,  which  I  had  already 
stated. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  How  about  this  Captain  Witsil  you  were  re- 
ferring to  a  minute  ago  ?     Is  he  employed,  too  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  He  was  my  man.  He  went  into  the  National  Army  as 
an  ordnance  officer  on  inspection. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  completes  the  list  of  Army  officers? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes ;  he  is  now  with  the  Remington  Co. 

Senator  Clark.  I  was  interested  primarily,  Major,  in  getting  a 
list  of  Regular  Army  officers. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  There  were  several  others,  like  Witsil,  that 
left  our  company  to  go  into  the  war.  A  number  of  those  came  back 
at  the  end  of  the  war. 

Senator  Clark.  I  was  primarily  interested  in  the  Regular  service. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  That  is  what  I  thought  you  were. 

Senator  Clark.  Because,  of  course,  men  who  were  temporarily 
in  the  Army  or  the  Navy  might  go  into  any  business  when  they  left. 
I  was  primarily  interested  in  getting  at  the  Regular  Army. 

I  will  call  your  attention  to  a  letter  from  Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont, 
of  the  smokeless-powder  department,  to  the  executive  committee. 
In  this  letter  I  myself  have  deleted  the  names  of  the  countries  men- 
tioned and  substituted  for  the  names  the  terms  "  Country  A"  and 
"  Country   B  '•.   for  reasons  which   will   appear   from   the   context. 

This  memorandum  is  headed  "  Promotion  of  Military  Sales  in 
Country  A." 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  995 ",  and 
appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Clark  (reading)  : 

During  the  winter  we  were  called  upon  by  Lieut.  Col.  J.  H.  Mackie,  who 
is  at  present  head  of  the  Canadian  relief  work.  He  had  been  in  Country  A 
for  some  months  and  at  that  time  was  also  a  member  of  the  Canadian  Par- 
liament. He  is  a  man  of  very  considerable  experience,  both  commercial  and 
political.  During  the  war  he  secured  the  Country  A  contracts  for  the  Canadian 
Car  &  Foundry  Co.,  also  the  contracts  for  rifles  for  Westinghouse,  Remington, 
and  Winchester,  the  total  business  amounting  to  some  $80,000,000.  During  the 
war  he  was  in  charge  of  the  proving  ground  in  Canada  for  the  Canadian  Car 
&  Foundry   Co. 

Colonel  Mackie  suggested  to  us  that  there  exists  a  demand  in  Country 
A  for  military  powder  and  as  he  was  going  there  he  would  serve  us  if  we 
wished  him  to  do  so.  We  looked  into  this  matter  very  carefully  and  discussed 
it  with  Colonel  McCabe,  recently  in  charge  of  Military  Intelligence.  Colonel 
McCabe  could  see  no  objection  to  our  dealing  with  Country  A  if  we  wanted  to 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2653 

and  used  the  following  argument :  That  Country  A  will  buy  munitions  if  she 
needs  them,  therefore  there  is  no  reason  why  manufacturers  in  this  country 
should  not  sell  to  Country  A.  From  tlie  military  standpoint  the  business  has 
this  value,  that  if  Country  A  is  going  to  obtain  munitions  somewhere,  by 
obtaining  them  from  the  United  States  our  Army  learns  how  much  and 
what  kind  of  powder  she  is  buying  and  by  deduction  is  in  a  position  to  obtain 
a  considerable  amount  of  information  of  military  value.  The  advantage 
in  dealing  with  potential  enemies  in  order  to  obtain  information  is  recognized 
by  both  branches  of  the  military  service  and  in  discussing  a  similar  condition 
in  connection  with  Country  B,  Admiral  Long,  recently  in  charge  of  Naval 
Intelligence,  advised  Major  Casey  that  the  same  condition  applied  to  that 
country. 

For  the  above  reasons  we  are  convinced  that  it  is  not  undesirable  to  sell 
powder  to  Country  A  for  political  or  moral  reasons  and  the  most  important 
disadvantage  that  we  must  guard  ourselves  against  very  carefully  will  be 
in  the  matter  of  making  contracts  that  will  assure  payment.  We  think  it 
wise  also  not  to  incur  the  displeasure  of  some  of  our  other  customers  by 
letting  it  be  known  that  we  are  selling  or  attempting  to  sell  to  Covuitry  A.  In 
order  to  protect  ourselves  we  have  made  the  following  arrangement  with 
Colonel  Mackie :  We  pay  half  of  his  expenses  on  this  trip  to  Country  A  and 
he  promotes  sales  of  powder  in  his  own  name,  the  powder  being  shipped  to 
Country  A  from  Canada.  We  believe  that  should  the  occasion  arise  from 
making  such  shipments,  they  can  be  made  to  advantage  through  the  C.X.L. 

What  was  the  C.X.L.  ? 
Mr.  Casey.  Canadian  Explosives,  Ltd. 

Senator  Clark.  You  had  an  arrangement  with  them  for  shipping 
under  their  name  when  occasion  demanded? 
Mr.  Casey.  To  meet  this  situation. 
Senator  Clark  (reading)  : 

Colonel  Mackie  has  talked  with  Mr.  McMasters,  with  whom  he  is  well  ac- 
quainted, and  Mr.  McMasters  is  desirous  of  giving  him  every  assistance.  With 
regard  to  inspection,  Mr.  McMasters  advised  that  if  it  seemed  advisable,  a 
Country  A  inspector  could  come  to  Canada  and  be  sent  from  C.X.L.  to  inspect 
the  powder. 

(Signed)     A.  Femx  du  Pont, 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Senator,  that  is  not  a  complete  letter.  There 
has  been  a  deletion  from  that. 

Senator  Clark.  I  suppose  there  is,  Mr.  du  Pont.  This  is  all  that 
was  furnished  me. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Might  we  see  the  complete  letter,  to  know 
what  that  deletion  consists  of? 

Senator  Clark.  Do  you  have  that,  Mr.  Raushenbush  ? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  We  have  it  somewhere,  but  in  the  deletion  to 
leave  out  the  names  of  those  countries  we  had  the  whole  letter  copied. 
I  do  not  think  anything  of  significance  was  left  out. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  There  is  a  row  of  dots  in  that  that  indi- 
cated to  me  something  was  left  out. 

Senator  Clark.  That  was  simply  in  order  to  leave  out  the  names 
of  the  countries,  Mr,  du  Pont,  We  would  have  no  objection  on 
earth  to  showing  the  whole  letter. 

Mr.  Casey.  July  14,  1923. 

Senator  Clark.  Do  both  branches  of  the  military  service  still  rec- 
ognize the  advantage  of  private  munitions  manufacturers  in  this 
country  dealing  with  potential  enemies  of  the  United  States? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  have  not  approached  them  on  the  subject  recently, 
but  the  last  time  I  did  that  was  still  their  attitude. 

Senator  Clark,  That  was  the  policy  the  last  time  you  were  in- 
formed about  it. 


2654  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  du  Pont,  in  your  opinion,  does  the  knowledge  from  a  military 
standpoint  of  the  character  of  powder  purchased  by  our  potential 
enemies  and  such  information  concerning  their  guns  as  this  knowl- 
edge produces  outweigh  the  disadvantage  from  the  standpoint  of 
our  Government  of  having  our  potential  enemies  fully  stocked  with 
the  very  latest  type  of  powder  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  would  certainly  depend  upon  our  military 
arm  for  an  answer  to  that  question.     I  would  not  know. 

Senator  Clark.  You  would  not  attempt  to  give  an  opinion  about 
that? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Certainly  not. 

Senator  Clark.  Is  it  possible  lor  these  countries  purchasing  pow- 
der, we  will  say  according  to  your  latest  formula,  Mr.  du  Pont,  to 
analyze  that  powder  and  determine  your  formula  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  did  not  get  the  question. 

Senator  Clark.  I  say,  I  am  asking  you  from  a  chemical  or  me- 
chanical standpoint,  as  I  assume  it  is  a  mixed  question,  is  it  pos- 
sible—we  will  assume  a  case  in  which  you  manufacture  powder 
according  to  a  secret  formula  of  your  own  which  may  not  be  in  the 
possession  of  a  foreign  nation  or  anybody  except  yourselves — is  it 
possible  for  a  foreign  government  by  purchasing  a  quantity  of  that 
powder  to  have  it  analyzed  and  determine  the  components  and  the 
process  by  which  you  have  manufactured  it? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  am  quite  sure  they  could  determine  its 
composition.  Whether  they  could  duplicate  it  or  not,  I  think  de- 
pends on  their  skill  in  manufacturing  powder.  But  that  is  reall}'^ 
a  question  you  should  not  ask  me.  I  am  not  a  technical  powder 
maker. 

Senator  Clark.  I  understand  you  are  not  a  technical  powder 
maker,  Mr.  du  Pont,  but  you  are  thoroughly  familiar  with  the  whole 
situation,  and  you  have  had  the  most  expert  technical  advice  through 
a  long  career  in  the  manufacture  of  powder;  therefore  you  are  in  a 
good  position  to  answer  the  question. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  From  past  experience  I  should  think  that 
if  the  du  Pont  Co.  received  a  sample  of  powder  they  could  come 
pretty  close  to  duplicating  it. 

Senator  Clark,  That  would  be  true,  assuming  a  high  degree  of 
expertness  in  the  powder  business,  if  a  foreign  powder  expert  received 
a  quantity  of  your  powder? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  could  not  say  that,  whether  that  would  be 
true  or  not. 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator,  I  might  say  this,  that  if  the  powder  has  been 
patented,  a  nation  buying  that  powder  might  want  to  buy  it  because 
of  what  they  have  observed  in  the  patent  applications  of  which  they 
have  a  copy,  and  probably  can  get  all  the  transactions  as  Dr.  Sparre 
explained  the  other  day.  Therefore,  the  patent  would  enable  them 
to  know  what  to  look  for. 

Senator  Clark.  I  understand  that,  Major,  that  when  a  process  or 
an  invention  or  anything  else  is  once  patented  in  a  foreign  country, 
and  a  foreign  government  wants  to  use  it,  you  are  absolutely  helpless 
to  protect  yourself  against  that. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Clark.  I  had  assumed  from  the  testimony  that  has  been 
put  in  the  record  here  that  certain  of  your  formulas  were  not  pat- 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2655 

ented,  but  were  held  secret  in  your  own  plant.  I  was  inquiring-  as 
to  whether  in  a  case  of  a  formula  which  had  not  been  registered  or 
patented  in  a  foreign  country,  they  could  determine  your  process  by 
an  analysis  of  the  powder. 

Mr.  Casey.  They  could  not  determine  the  process.  They  might  be 
able  to  determine  approximately  the  composition  with  a  reasonable 
degree  of  accuracy,  but  not  the  process. 

Senator  Clark.  An  expert  powder  maker  would  probably  be  able 
to  take  the  composition  and  hit  on  the  process,  wouldn't  he,  Major? 

Mr.  Casey.  He  might  hit  on  the  process,  not  necessarily  the  same 
one.  Now,  in  a  great  many  of  these  more  modern  powders,  Senator, 
a  process  ma}^  mean  one  thing  to  a  certain  man.  He  may  attempt  to 
duplicate  or  make  the  powder  by  that  process  and  may  get  certain 
results.  If  he  knew  that  there  was  another  process,  he  might  get 
the  real  answer.  It  is  the  "  know  how  "  that  is  so  important,  and 
the  "know  how  "  is  very  difficult  to  even  write  down.  It  is  a  matter 
of  what  you  might  call  plant  practice. 

Senator  Clark.  I  understand  that.  Major,  but  there  are  expert 
powder  manufacturers  with  the  "  know  how  "  in  foreign  countries 
as  well  as  the  du  Pont  Co.  in  this  country. 

Mr.  Casey.  Oh,  yes.  In  fact,  they  all  believe  they  are  very  much 
better  than  we  are. 

Senator  Clark.  I  understand  you  do  not  agree  with  that  con- 
clusion, but  nevertheless  it  is  entirely  probable  that  by  taking  a 
quantity  of  your  powder,  inen  who  are  versed  in  the  art  would  be 
able  to  duplicate  the  powder, 

Mr.  Casey.  They  would  be  able  to  to  a  certain  extent;  yes.  Now, 
of  course.  Senator,  before  a  powder  has  ever  reached  the  stage  where 
a  foreign  government  would  even  be  interested,  by  that  time  it  is  in 
the  category  where  the  existence  of  such  a  powder  is  no  longer  a 
secret.  That  is  what  I  tried  to  state  the  other  day.  I  want  to  make 
the  distinction  between  secret  and  "  know  how."  I  said  there  was 
no  such  thing  as  a  secret  after  2  years.  Other  countries  may  know 
there  is  in  existence  something  mysterious  or  they  may  know  a 
certain  item  is  in  existence  and  they  want  to  find  out  about  it. 

Senator  Clark.  That  is  w^hat  I  am  trying  to  get  at.  Major;  the 
effect  of  this  whole  trade,  as  to  whether  it  does  disclose  to  foreign 
countries  the  latest  developments  of  the  manufacture  of  powder  or, 
for  that  matter,  the  manufacture  of  guns  or  any  other  military 
equipment. 

Mr.  Casey.  To  go  a  step  further,  we  will  assume,  which  has  noth- 
ing to  do  with  this  case  incidentally,  but  we  will  just  take  a  hypo- 
thetical case,  that  a  certain  nation  wanted  to  buy  a  certain  quantity 
of  powder  which  you  might  say  was  the  latest  development  we  had 
for  the  United  States  Government.  Let  us  assume  for  the  sake  of 
the  argument  that  part  of  it  has  been  patented,  part  of  it  is  secret 
process.  Then  we  take  this  proposition,  and  we  put  it  right  squarely 
up  to  the  Federal  Government,  what  do  you  think  would  be  the 
advantages  and  the  disadvantages  of  us  selling  them  this  powder  ?  " 
Then  it  is  for  them  to  decide. 

Senator  Clark.  I  understand  that,  and  that  is  exactly  what  I  am 
trying  to  get  at,  Major,  what  the  effect  of  decisions  that  have  been 
made  may  be. 


.2656  MUjsriTioisrs  industry 

Mr.  Casey.  We  have  never  had  a  case  come  up  where  it  repre- 
sented a  final  decision.    Did  you  get  that,  Senator? 

Senator  Clark.  No. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  say,  we  have  never  had  a  case  come  up  parallel  to 
this  hypothetical  case  where  there  was  a  final  decision,  so  the  thing 
has  never  occurred.  But  I  would  like  to  give  you  an  illustration  of 
what  the  Government  that  we  contact — and  by  that  I  mean  the  Army 
and  the  Navy — have  asked  us  tO'  do,  and  on  one  occasion  which  is 
very  recent.  I  will  not  mention  the  type  of  powder  except  to  say  it 
is  a  small-arms  powder. 

I  was  requested  by  the  small-arms  division  of  the  ammunition 
branch  if  du  Pont  would,  if  requested  by  the  Government,  refuse  to 
sell  that  powder  even  to  our  American  loading  companies,  if  they 
asked  us  to.  I  said.  '"  AVell,  that  is  putting  us  in  a  very  awkward  spot." 
In  the  first  place,  before  du  Pont  purchased  Remington,  even  then 
the  loading  companies,  if  they  did  have  a  foreign  order,  did  not 
want  us  to  know  for  whom  that  ammunition  was  intended,  because 
they  were  afraid  that  we  might  in  turn  advise  the  other  loading  com- 
panies; then  they  would  have  competition.  But  since  we  have  bought 
Remington  the  situation  in  that  respect  is  worse.  They  naturally 
feel,  if  it  happened  to  be  some  other  company  than  Remington,  that 
if  they  told  us  for  whom  it  was  intended,  then  they  would  say, 
■"Well,  Remington  will  know  this  within  a  few  hours." 

So  I  gave  the  answer  to  the  officer,  "  It  seems  to  me  your  propo- 
sition is  to  get  after  the  loading  company  and  ask  them  not  to  ship, 
if  you  request  it.  But  we  will  do  our  part.  When  we  get  the  in- 
quiry for  that  type  of  powder,  we  will  let  you  know  that  a  certain 
company  has  given  an  inquiry,  but  we  cannot  attempt  to  tell  our 
<;ustomer  that  because  of  a  request  we  are  not  going  to  let  them  have 
the  stuff,  because  the  answer  would  be  that  they  would  then  go  to 
another  powder  company  and  not  get  the  same  powder,  but  they 
would  get  a  powder  that  would  solve  the  problem." 

Senator  Clark.  You  simply  mean  by  that.  Major,  that  you  can 
•disclose  your  own  business  to  the  Government,  but  you  cannot  dis- 
close that  of  somebody  else? 

Mr.  Casey.  Exactly. 

Senator  Clark.  That  is  entirely  natural. 

Mr.  Casey.  In  this  particular  case  of  Mackie,  what  we  were  offer- 
ing was  exactly  the  same  kind  of  powder  that  we  had  furnished 
Russia  in  the  war,  and  it  was  a  powder  that  was  in  stock  at  the  time 
we  were  offering  it  to  Mackie  at  a  low  price. 

Senator  Clark.  By  the  v;ay,  Mr.  du  Pont,  I  am  informed  that 
the  paragraph  vrhich  Avas  deleted  from  that  letter  which  I  just  read 
had  to  do  with  some  expressions  of  private  opinion  from  Mr.  Mackie 
as  to  the  character  of  the  people  of  one  of  the  nations  mentioned. 
We  would  be  very  glad  to  put  it  in  the  record  if  it  is  desired. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  have  read  that  paragraph  which  has 
been  deleted,  and  it  seems  to  be  of  no  imjiortance. 

Senator  Clark.  We  will  be  glad  to  put  it  in  tlie  record  if  you 
want  it. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  seems  to  me  to  be  of  no  consequence. 

Senator  Clark.  Now,  I  call  your  attention  to  a  memorandum  for 
Mr.  Felix  du  Pont,  dated  March  26,  1924,  which  indicates  a  similar 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


2657 


attitude  of  mind  on  the  part  of  the  Navy  Department,  which  I  will 
offer  for  appropriate  number.  .  ,  -r.  i   i  v  at      c^ao  ^^ 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  '  li,xhiDit  JNo.  \)\)b  y 
and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2824.) 

Senator  Clark.  It  is  headed,  "Assistance  from  Navy  Department 
in  connection  with  sales  to  foreign  governments." 

In  December  1923,  during  an  inteiTiew  with  Admiral  Block,  of  the  Navy- 
Department,  I  was  informed  that  the  Bureau  of  Ordnance,  Navy,  would  da 
everything  within  its  power  to  assist  us  in  making  sales  to  foreign  goveniments. 

Dropping  down  to  the  last  paragraph : 

This  is  a  good  example  of  cooperation  on  the  Navy's  part,  and  we  believe 
it  is  worth  while  to  make  the  facts  of  the  case  known  to  the  executive 
committee. 

I  call  vour  attention  to  a  letter  dated  July  24- 


Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Before  you  leave  this,  Mr.  Senator,  I  should 
like  to  read  from  the  National  Defense  Act  a  paragraph  which  refers- 
to  just  that  kind  of  assistance,  which  I  think  is  quit€  apropos. 

This  is  page  18  [reading]  : 

COGNATE   ACTS 

That  the  President  of  the  United  States  be,  and  hereby  is,  authorized,  upon 
application  from  the  foreign  governments  concerned,  and  whenever  in  his  dis- 
cretion the  public  interests  render  such  a  course  advisable,  to  detail  officers 
and  enlisted  men  of  the  United  States  Army,  Navy,  and  Marine  Corps  to  assist 
the  governments  of  the  Republics  of  North  America,  Central  America,  and 
South  America,  and  of  the  Republics  of  Cuba,  Haiti,  and  Santo  Domingo,  in 
militai*j-  and  naval  matters:  Provided,  That  the  officers  and  enlisted  men  so 
detailed  be,  and  they  are  hereby,  authorized  to  accept  from  the  government  to 
which  detailed  offices  and  such  compensation  and  emolumentsi  thereunto  ap- 
pertaining as  may  be  first  approved  by  the  Secretary  of  War  or  by  the  Sec- 
retary of  the  Navy,  as  the  case  may  be:  Promded  furiher.  That  while  so 
detailed  such  officers  and  enlisted  men  shall  receive,  in  addition  to  the  com- 
pensation and  emoluments  allowed  them  by  such  governments,  the  pay  and 
allowances  whereto  entitled  in  the  United  States  Army,  Navy,  and  Marine 
Corps,  and  sihall  be  allowed  the  same  credit  for  longevity,  retirement,  and  for 
all  other  purposes  that  they  would  receive  if  they  were  serving  with  the  forces 
of  the  United  States. 

Senator  Clark.  I  am  thoroughly  familiar  with  that  provision,  Mr. 
du  Pont.  We  have  had  occasion  to  examine  somewhat  into  that 
heretofore  in  these  hearings. 

It  was  under  that  provision  of  the  National  Defense  Act,  I  believe, 
that  the  United  States  Government  loaned  Peru  a  naval  mission^ 
which  in  the  course  of  its  services  to  Peru,  while  they  were  receiving, 
I  believe,  $8,000  apiece  from  the  Peruvian  Government  in  addition 
to  their  pay  as  American  naval  officers,  recommended  the  purchase 
by  Peru  of  certain  submarines  manufactured  by  an  American  com- 
pany. Then  shortly  thereafter  the  potential  enemy  of  Peru,  to  wit, 
Colombia,  felt  that  it  was  necessary  for  it  to  prepare  its  national 
defense  against  those  submarines  which  had  been  furnished  them 
under  the  advice  of  the  American  Naval  Mission;  and  the  United 
States  Government  then  loaned  to  Colombia  another  naval  officer, 
who  recommended  and  specified  certain  guns  manufactured  by  an- 
other American  concern  as  a  defense  against  the  submarines  which 
had  been  previously  sold  to  Peru. 


2658  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

It  does  not  seem  to  me  that  those  provisions  for  military  and  naval 
missions  or  for  the  loan  of  American  Army  or  Naval  officers  has 
anything  to  do  with  the  thing  which  I  just  said.    This  says : 

In  December  19'23,  during  an  interview  with  Admiral  Blocb  of  the  Navy  De- 
partment, I  was  informed  that  the  Bureau  of  Ordnance,  Navy,  would  do  every- 
thing within  its  power  to  assist  us  in  making  sales  to  foreign  governments. 

Tills  is  a  good  example  of  cooperation  on  the  Navy's  part,  and  we  believe  it 
■'S  worth  while  to  make  the  facts  of  the  case  known  to  the  executive  committee. 

Now,  I  understand  that  provision  of  the  statute  which  you  just 
read.  It  does  not  say  anything  about  the  bureaus  of  the  Army  and 
Navy  actually  engaging  in  assistance  in  the  sale  of  muntions,  and  I 
do  not  find  anything  in  that  statute  that  justifies  any  such  conduct 
on  the  part  of  the  Army  or  the  Navy. 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator,  we  are  not  attempting  to  interpret  whatever 
interpretations  they  may  get  from  that  act. 

Senator  Clark.  I  understand  that.  Major,  but  Mr.  du  Pont  read 
that  into  the  record  as  though  it  was  apropos,  and  I  am  simply  re- 
cording ni}^  opinion  that  it  is  not  at  all  apropos  to  such  action  as  this 
on  the  part  of  the  Navy  Department. 

Mr.  Rausiienbush.  Major  Casey,  have  any  Army  or  Navy  officers 
used  t]iat  act  to  interpret  their  actions  to  you  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  I  do  not  loiow. 

]Mr.  Raushexbush.  You  have  not  gotten  that  as  authority  from 
the  Army  and  the  Navy,  however,  have  you  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  In  every  instance  where  there  has  been  such  occasion 
it  has  always  been  under  the  direct  authority  of  the  Secretary  of  the 
Navy  or  the  Secretary  of  War. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  And  vou  have  not  had  any  reference  to  that 
act? 

Mr.  Casey.  No;  they  do  not  refer  to  any  act.  They  simply  say, 
"  By  power  vested  in  me,"  or  whatever  the  proper  language  is.  We 
cannot  go  any  higher  than  that. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Is  it  your  idea  that  that  act 

Mr.  Casey.  I  am  not  attempting  to  make  any  interpretations. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  But  it  is  yours,  though,  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  have  been  wondering  since  last  night  what 
the  authority  is. 

Senator  Clark.  I  have  been  wondering  too,  Mr.  du  Pont. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  must  be  there,  or  they  would  not  do  it. 

Senator  Clark.  I  know  many  departments  do  many  things  not 
authorized  by  law.  I  did  not  mean  to  interrupt  you,  Mr.  du  Pont. 
Excuse  me. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  don't  know  where  we  left  off. 

Senator  Clark.  Now,  Major,  I  am  absolutely  not  certain  that  we 
are  talking  about  the  same  thing.  Let  me  ask  you  this  question :  I 
understand  you  to  say  that  both  branches  of  the  United  States  mili- 
tary service,  that  is,  the  Arm}^  Intelligence,  Military  Intelligence,  and 
Naval  Intelligence,  so  far  as  you  know  from  your  last  information, 
take  the  position  that  it  is  good  policy  on  the  part  of  the  United 
States  to  sell  munitions  made  in  the  United  States  to  potential 
enemies  of  the  country? 

Mr.  Casey.  On  the  basis  that,  in  the  first  place,  it  gives  business  to 
this  country.     That  is  one  thing. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2659 

Senator  Clark.  That  is  the  reason  set  out  in  Mr.  Felix  du  Font's 
memorandnm. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes.  Secondly,  it  gives  us  the  advantage  of  knowing 
at  least  part  of  what  they  are  buying  and  what  guns  it  is  intended 
for.  Third,  it  also  gives  us  knowledge  of  certain  guns  which  we  may 
have  no  knowledge  of  before.  In  other  words,  in  order  to  sell  the 
powder  you  must  have  what  are  termed  the  gun  constants.  Do  I 
make  that  clear? 

Senator  Clark.  But  it  is  the  policy  of  the  Government  that  it  is 
good  policy  from  a  Government  standpoint  for  American  munitions 
makers  to  sell  munitions  to  potential  enemies  of  the  United  States. 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is  from  my  last  information. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Major,  just  in  passing,  before  we  get  off  that, 
would  you  care  to  identify,  from  your  knowledge  of  the  letter  just 
read  a  moment  ago,  that  the  countries  marked  by  this  committee  as 
A  and  B,  whose  names  were  deleted,  have  generally  been  considered 
by  some  groups  in  this  country  as  potential  enemies  of  the  country  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Regarding  country  A  I  would  say  no. 

Mr,  Raushenbush.  Not  even  in  1922  or  1923,  when  that  letter  was 
written  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  No.  There  might  have  been  a  difference  of  opinion 
as  to  the  methods  of  our  former  government,  but  not  the  present 
government.  In  the  case  of  country  B,  the  less  said  about  it  the 
better. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  was  my  own  idea  in  deleting  it. 

Senator  Clark.  Now,  I  call  your  attention  to  a  memorandum  dated 
July  24,  1924,  from  Major  Casey  to  F.  W.  Bradway,  which  I  will 
ask  to  have  marked  with  the  appropriate  exhibit  number. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  997  ", 
and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2824.) 

Senator  Clark.  F.  W.  Bradway  was  the  man  Avho  was  here  yester- 
day? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes.  He  is  now  assistant  general  manager.  He  was 
at  that  time  director  of  manufacture. 

Senator  Clark.  From  this  letter  I  notice  that  the  former  head  of 
the  ordnance  service,  General  Rice,  who  was  your  representative  in 
Paris  at  that  time,  I  believe,  had  given  a  letter  to  a  Polish  military 
officer,  requesting  the  Ordnance  Department  of  the  Army  to  show 
him  some  very  important  plans  and  contracts.  I  will  read  from  the 
last  paragraph  on  the  page : 

The  program  which  they  desire  for  this  officer  is  as  follows :  When  he  arrives 
ill  America,  he  will  go  directly  to  Wilmington  and  present  himself  to  Major 
Casey.  I  have  given  him  a  letter  of  introduction.  He  will  also  have  a  letter 
from  General  Rice  to  an  officer  in  the  Ordnance  Department  in  which  General 
Rice  will  request  the  Ordnance  Department  to  show  him  our  various  schemes 
of  mohilizing  the  powder  industries,  what  contracts  our  Government  make.s 
with  powder  industries,  and  have  him  visit  the  Government  arsenals. 

Did  you  consider  that  that  was  conducive  to  the  Government's 
interests  to  have  the  Government's  secret  plans  for  mobilizing  the 
powder  industry  of  the  country  in  the  event  of  war  disclosed  to  a 
representative  of  a  foreign  power  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Don't  you  think  that  that  is  a  matter  that  is  up  to  the 
Government  to  decide  ? 


2660  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Senator  Clark.  Yes;  I  do,  Major;  but  I  am  trying  to  get  at  the 
attitude  of  the  former  Chief  of  Ordnance  of  the  United  States  Army, 
who  was  at  that  time  your  representative. 

Mr.  Casey.  Take  the  country  at  that  time,  Poland,  starting  from 
zero,  with  a  famous  concert  pianist  at  the  head  of  the  Government, 
Paderewski.  The  United  States  at  that  time  were  doing  all  they 
could  to  see  that  Poland  got  on  its  feet  before  something  happened 
to  it,  and  at  that  time  there  was  absolute  fear  that  before  anything 
got  going  the  Bolsheviks  would  have  them  bottled  up.  That  was 
proven  a  few  years  after  that  when  the  war  between  Poland  and  the 
Bolsheviks  took  place.  If  it  had  not  been  for  the  assistance  the 
United  States  gave  them,  there  would  not  have  been  a  Poland  today, 
I  do  not  believe. 

Senator  Clark.  Then,  you  do  think  that  General  Rice  was  pro- 
ceeding in  the  proper  manner  in  requesting  the  United  States  Gov- 
ernment to  disclose  their  secret  mobilization  plans  to  the  representa- 
tive of  a  foreign  power  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  He  was  making  a  request. 

Senator  Clark.  Was  that  done  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  I  do  not  know.  We  never  knew  what  the  United 
States  Government  did. 

Senator  Clark.  What  did  you  do  about  it,  Major?  I  will  say  that 
I  think  you  proceeded  with  more  discretion  than  General  Rice  did, 
because  you  said — no;  I  assume  this  is  Colonel  Taylor — at  the  top 
of  page  2 : 

I  trust  you  will  be  able  to  arrange  a  suitable  program  for  him  90  that  he 
will  get  general  information  and  not  learn  the  things  you  don't  want  him  to 
know  and  that  he  will  get  some  idea  of  how  the  powder  business  should  be 
conducted  and  contracts  and  so  forth  should  be  made.  I  believe  that  it  will 
be  a  good  thing  for  us  to  have  an  opportunity  to  educate  him  and  the  proper 
method  of  doing  business  in  America,  as  this  officer's  functions  in  Poland  will 
be  a  check  on  the  activities  of  the  other  people  which  we  have  to  deal  mth. 

Now,  Colonel  Ta3dor's  attitude  seems  to  have  been  that  it  was  a 
good  thing  to  show  this  Polish  officer  enough  to  make  him  think 
that  du  Pont  powder  was  better  than  anybody  else's,  without  letting 
him  actually  find  out  how  to  make  it. 

Mr.  Casey.  Don't  you  think.  Senator,  there  is  a  very  vital  distinc- 
tion between  the  two  letters?  One  was  a  letter  of  introduction 
handed  to  the  man  who  was  going  to  take  that  letter,  and  that  man 
was  allowed  to  read  that  letter.  It  is  certainly  a  cinch  if  that  letter 
that  this  Polish  officer  had  contained  the  language  that  Colonel 
Taylor  wrote  to  us,  he  would  not  have  been  very  enthusiastic  about 
coming. 

Senator  Clark.  I  understand,  but  the  difference  was  that  Colonel 
Taylor  wrote  his  letter  to  you  and  General  Rice  wrote  his  letter 
to  the  Ordnance  Department  of  the  Army,  in  which  he  requested 
them  to  show  our  various  schemes  for  mobilizing  the  powder  in- 
dustry, what  contracts  our  Government  made  with  the  powder  in- 
dustrj'^,  and  have  him  visit  the  Government  arsenals.  While  Colonel 
Taylor  may  have  tipped  you  off  privately,  there  is  nothing  to  show 
that  the  Government  was  tipped  off  privately,  and  here  was  a  re- 
quest from  the  former  chief  of  ordnance  of  the  United  States  Army 
to  a  man  who  i)robably  had  been  his  subordinate  when  he  w^as  chief 
of  ordnance,  requesting  him  that  this  examination  be  made  and 
also  to  disclose  all  our  private  contracts. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2661 

Mr.  Casey.  But  remember  this:  The  Government  does  not  need 
to  be  tipped  off.  They  know  where  they  are.  They  have  got  their 
feet  on  the  ground.     Now,  what  happened 

Senator  Clark.  What  did  happen? 

Mr.  Casey  (continuing).  When  they  were  willing  to  have  an 
officer  visit  our  plant?  That  officer  came  with  a  letter  from  the 
Ordnance  Department  saying,  "  We  would  appreciate  it  if  you  have 
no  objection  to  showing  him  the  manufacture  of  powder,  but  then 
we  get  another  letter  which  does  not  quite  say  that. 

Senator  Clark.  It  is  your  idea,  then,  that  General  Eice  was  just 
giving  this  Pole  the  run-around  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  He  was  giving  him  a  sales  talk. 

Senator  Clark.  We  have  heard  a  good  deal  about  sales  talks  here 
the  last  week. 

Mr.  Casey.  Maybe  we  will  make  salesmen  out  of  you  fellows  yet. 

Senator  Clark.  Not  for  munitions. 

business   with   the   UNITED   STATES   GOVERNMENT 

Senator  Clark.  Now  I  call  your  attention  to  a  memorandum  from 
Mr.  C.  I.  B.  Henning,  headed — I  will  have  to  get  one  of  you  gentle- 
men to  pronounce  tliis  for  me 

Mr.  Casey.  Diphenylamine. 

Senator  Clark.  "  Diphenylamine,  Ordnance  Department,  Wash- 
ington, D.  C,  November  17,  1924  ",  which  I  will  ask  to  be  marked 
with  the  appropriate  exhibit  number. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  998  " 
and  appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Clark.  I  will  read  from  this  memorandum : 

On  suggestion  of  Major  Casey,  made  hurried  trip  to  Washington  and  dis- 
cussed with  Gen.  C.  C.  Williams  and  his  executive  assistant,  Maj.  C.  T.  Harris, 
arrangements  by  which  the  du  Pont  Co.  might  secure  such  portion  of  the  stock 
of  diphenylamine  as  held  in  reserve  by  the  Ordnance  Department.  Their  total 
stock  is  approximately  67,000  pounds  in  storage  at  Pica  tinny  Arsenal.  It  is 
partly  of  du  Pont  manufacture  and  complies  with  the  specifications  of  the 
Ordnance  Department  as  set  forth  in  their  pamphlet  no.  450  governing  the 
manufacture  of  smokeless  powder  for  cannon.  These  specifications  are  not 
quite  as  stringent  as  those  set  forth  in  the  small  blue  advertising  folder  of 
the  dyestuffs  department.  Copy  of  this  letter  was  presented  with  the  sugges- 
tion that  the  Ordnance  Department  might  profit  through  the  "  I'econditioning  " 
of  their  stock  of  diphenylamine. 

The  important  point  to  l)e  emphasized  in  this  memorandum  is  that  General 
Williams  immediately  stated  that  it  was  his  desire  to  do  anything  in  his 
po\\er  which  would  assist  the  du  Pout  Co.,  that  he  was  very  appreciative  of 
the  spirit  of  cooperation  extended  by  Major  Casey,  and  that,  although  there 
was  grave  doubt  in  his  mind  as  to  the  readiness  by  which  the  legal  require- 
ments of  the  transaction  might  be  complied  with,  he  would  immediately  instruct 
Maj.  C.  T.  Harris  to  find  a  way  by  which  the  transaction  could  be  carried  out. 

So  that  General  Williams,  although  there  was  very  grave  doubt  in 
his  mind  as  to  the  legality  of  the  transaction,  instructed  his  sub- 
ordinate, Major  Harris,  to  find  a  way  by  which  the  transaction 
could  be  carried  out. 

It  has  been  your  observation,  hasn't  it.  Major,  that  when  a  general 
instructs  a  major  to  find  a  way  to  do  something,  the  major  is  apt  not 
to  be  too  meticulous  as  to  the  law  on  the  subject? 

Mr.  Casey.  He  may  give  those  instructions  and  find  out  after- 
ward that  it  cannot  be  done.  But  let  me  tell  you  about  this 
matter 


2662  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Senator  Clark.  Just  let  me  finish  this  memorandum : 

I  wished  to  obtain  the  maximum  proportion  of  their  diphenylamine  jjrac- 
licuble  and  mentioned  50,000  pounds.  Major  Han  is  tlKaiuht  it  well  to  reduce 
this  to  40,000  iwunds,  in  order  to  avoid  criticism  ot'  undue  depletion  of  their 
stock.  I  mentioned  3  months  as  the  time  for  return,  but  Major  Harris  thought 
it  well  to  increase  this  to  120  days.  Major  Harris  inunediately  endeavored 
to  get  in  touch  with  the  division  of  the  Ordnance  Department  handling  legal 
details  of  contracts,  but  these  ofBcers  had  all  gone  for  the  day.  Some  discus- 
sion was  then  held  regarding  details  of  arrangements.  It  was  not  considered 
practicable  for  the  Ordnance  Department  to  offer  any  of  the  diphenylamine 
tor  sale,  inasmuch  as  it  is  really  all  needed.  I  pointed  out  that  there  is  a 
certain  precedent  set  in  that  the  Ordnance  Department  has  offered  the  various 
contractors  materials  on  hand  for  reconditioning,  and  particularly,  that  it  has 
come  to  our  knowledge  that  Frankford  Arsenal  has  by  this  means  obtained  new 
supplies  of  cups  for  cartridge  cases-,  primers,  etc.  General  AVilliams  thought 
that  he  was  justified  in  recommending  the  transjiction  because  the  diphenyla- 
mine which  they  would  obtain  would  comply  with  specifications  somewhat 
more  stringent  than  those  under  which  the  diphenylamine  now  on  hand  was 
accepted.  This  point  is  emphasized  for  the  dyestuffs  department,  with  the 
suggestion  that  we  should  not  accept  the  reserve  supply  of  the  Ordnance 
Department's  diphenylamine  unless  we  have  reasonaule  expectations  of  being 
able  to  tleliver  diphenylamine  complying  sti'ictly  and  thoroughly  v.'ith  the 
specifications  as  set  forth  in  their  advertising  literature.  When  we  are  pre- 
pared to  make  return  of  diphenylanune  the  inspectors  at  Picatinny  Arsenal 
will  pay  particular  attention  to  this.  Major  Harris,  after  consulting  the  legal 
experts  of  the  Ordnance  Department,  will  ha\e  prepared  a  contract  for  recon- 
ditioning probably  40,000  pounds  of  diphenylamine.  We  v>ill  pay  all  trans- 
jiortation  costs  and  handling  charges  and  mav  receive  as  compensation  for 
this  work  $1.00. 

Major,  that  was  a  subterfuge  about  reconditioning  the  diphenyl- 
amine, was  it  not? 

Mr.  Casey.  It  might  have  been  a  legal  subterfuge. 

Senator  Clakk.  In  otlier  words,  General  Williams  had  already 
expressed  his  desire  to  do  it,  although  he  had  very  grave  doubts,  legal 
doubts,  about  it,  and  instructed  his  subordinate  to  find  a  way  in  which 
to  do  it,  and  then  Avhen  it  came  to  finding  a  way  in  which  to  do  it, 
some  suggestion  Avas  made  about  sale  and  they  said  they  could  not 
do  that  because  the  diphenylamine  in  the  reserve  stock  was  really 
all  needed  by  the  Government,  and  then  this  other  matter  about 
reconditioning  Avas  suggested  as  getting  around  the  law.  Isn't  that 
the  situation.? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is  what  the  memorandum  says. 

Senator  Clark.  That  is  exactly  what  the  situation  was. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Clark.  Now,  you  want  to  make  an  explanation,  Major 
Casey  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  What  really  happened  was  this:  W.  F.  Harrington, 
who  at  that  time  was  general  manager  of  the  dyestuffs  department, 
came  to  me  one  day  and  said  that  they  had  had  a  fire  and  they  needed 
some  diphenylamine,  which  is,  of  course,  extensively  used,  and  in 
fact  used  more  in  the  dye  than  any  other  place. 

Senator  Clark.  It  is  also  used  in  the  manufacture  of  smokeless 
powder. 

Mr.  Casey.  About  one-half  of  1  percent. 

Senator  Clark.  As  a  stabilizer. 

Mr.  Casey.  As  a  stabilizer.  And  he  wanted  to  know  if  it  was 
possible  to  take  care  of  the  situation  if  we  could  borrow  that  from 
the  Government.  I  said,  "  No ;  such  a  thing  is  impossible."  He  said, 
"  Could  you  effect  a  trade  with  them  ?  "     I  said,  "  No.     The  only  ar- 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2663' 

rangeinent  you  can  ever  make  with  the  Government  is  this :  In  any 
transaction  you  take  up,  whether  it  is  the  modification  of  an  exist- 
ing contract  or  otherwise,  the  Government  will  not  agree  unless  by 
doing  so  they  gain.     They  must  have  something  to  show  as  a  gain." 

Harrington  said,  "  They  are  going  to  gain  by  this,  because  the 
diphenylamine  made  according  to  the  specifications  at  the  time  it 
was  made  which  the  Government  has  now  is  of  a  much  lower  grade 
than  the  stuff  we  are  now  making.-'  That  is  why  this  question  of 
the  blue  book  containing  the  specifications  for  the  better  grade  of 
diphenylamine  has  been  referred  to  several  times. 

Therefore,  General  Williams — I  can  see  his  viewpoint — felt  this 
way :  That  while  this  is  a  reserve  stock,  that  reserve  stock,  even  under 
Avar-time  conditions,  would  have  taken  an  awfully  long  time  to  use 
up,  60,000  pounds.  You  can  simply  take  one-half  of  1  percent.  But 
in  addition  to  that 

Senator  Clark.  Major  Harris  said  it  was  really  needed  by  the 
Government. 

Mr.  Casey.  What  is  that  ? 

Senator  Barbour.  This  memorandum  states  that  Major  Harris  said 
it  was  really  needed  by  the  Government. 

Mr.  Casey.  Because  it  was  part  of  their  program  of  reserve.  In 
other  words,  they  could  not  dispose  of  it  and  not  replace  it. 

Senator  Clark.  This  memorandum  does  not  indicate  that  this 
diphenylamine  that  the  Government  had  w^as  of  a  much  lower  grade 
than  the  other.  He  said  it  complied  with  the  ordnance  specifications. 
He  said,  "  These  specifications  ai-e  not  quite  as  stringent  as  those 
set  forth  in  the  small  blue  adiVertising  folder  of  "the  dyestuffs 
department." 

In  other  words,  it  would  not  make  much  difference  or  it  would  not 
be  much  different. 

Is  it  not  a  fact,  reading  from  this  memorandum,  that  as  far  -as 
General  Williams  was  concerned,  the  question  of  reconditioning  was 
not  raised  with  him?  He  just  said,  "  I  want  to  do  it,  and  I  have 
some  grave  doubts  about  it ",  and  turned  around  to  his  subordinate 
and  said,  "  Find  a  way  to  do  it."  When  the  subordinate  talked  to 
Mr.  Henning  they  first  brought  up  the  question  of  sale,  and  Harris 
said,  "  We  would  not  sell  it  because  it  is  actually  needed  by  the  Gov- 
ernment ",  and  then  as  an  afterthought,  apparently,  Mr.  Henning 
suggested  this  subterfuge  of  reconditioning  as  a  way  of  getting 
around  the  law. 

It  appears  that  there  was  a  desire  on  your  part  to  increase  the 
amount  of  diphenylamine. 

Mr.  Casey.  We  wanted  to  get  as  much  as  they  were  willing  to  let 
us  have. 

Senator  Clark.  I  call  your  attention  to  a  memorandum  from  Mr. 
Henning,  dated  November  20,  1924,  which  was  3  days  later  than  the 
one  I  just  read,  which  I  will  offer  to  be  marked  with  the  appropriate 
exhibit  number. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  999  " 
and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2825.) 

Senator  Clark.  This  memorandum  says : 

Referring  to  memorandum  no.  105,  dated  November  18,  and  following  up  ttie 
unfinished  featuies  of  this,  trip  was  made  to  Washington  to  negotiate  details 
by  which  we  would  obtain  the  diphenylamine,  also  to  increase  the  amount,  if 
possible.     Maj.  C.  T.  Harris  had  given  Maj.  P.  J.  O'Shaughnessy  instructions 


2664  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

to  have  a  contract  prepared  acceptable  to  us,  but  at  the  same  time  complying 
with  Ordnance  Deiartment  procedure  and  the  laws  of  Congress  rela  mg  o 
Tontracts  for  ordnance  material.  Major  O'Shaughnessy's  first  move  was  to 
CO  suit  the  ammunition  division  as  to  their  wishes,  and  especially  the  matter 
of  detail  ol  specifications.  C.  G.  Storm  handled  this  matter  tor  the  ammunition 
division  and  inasmuch  as  this  subject  had  been  previously  discussed  with  Dr. 
Stoim  on  Monday,  November  17,  he  was  not  inclined  to  make  any  trouble. 
Mr.    Casey.  Would    you    mind    reading    the    next    paragraph, 

Senator?  ,    ^  r-r.     t       n 

Senator  Clark.  I  would  be  glad  to.    [Reading  :J 

As  a  follow-up  of  this  discussion,  it  will  be  desirable  to  send  to  the  ammunition 
division  aS  for  the  attention  of  Dr.  Storm,  report  ««.  investigations  carried 
out  by  the  experimental  station  a  number  of  years  ago,  indicating  the  effect  of 
fmnurities  in  diphenylamine  when  used  for  stabilizing  cannon  powder  Also 
Twrn  be  in  order  to  consider  further  revisions  of  the  specifications  for  di- 
phe^y  amine,  taking  advantage  of  the  fact  that  we  are  now  enabled  to  jnanu- 
facture  a  pure  product  because  of  our  experience  in  the  manufacture  of 
Snhenylam?ne  as  an  intermediate  in  preparing  dyestuffs.  The  particular  point 
fs  that  th?  Ordnance  Department  specifications  contain  no  requirement  as  to 
he  percentage  of  dfphenylamine  in  the  product  supplied,  depending  upon  van- 
nnt  nhvsical  tests  such  as  melting  point  and  the  tests  for  certain  impurities. 

Su'^rSmmercill  siic^^^^^  that  the  diphenylamine  offered  will  con- 

tain atTe^S  99.5  percent  diphenylamine.  Major  O'Shaughnessy  would  like  to 
have  made  use  of  the  new  specifications  for  reworked  diphenylamine  as  a  3us- 
?mcat?on  for  the  Contract  for  "reworking",  but  we  convinced  him  that  the 
time  necessary  to  prepare  and  have  approved  new  specifications  was  such  that 
it  was  impracticable  to  do  this. 

All  of  this  correspondence  would  indicate  a  very  extraordinary 
desire  on  the  part  of  all  officers  concerned  to  please  the  du  Pont  Co. 
and  find  some  legal  subterfuge  or  excuse  for  makmg  this  transac- 

*' mV^Casey.  Senator,  do  you  not  think  they  were  justified  in  trying 
to  do  that,  because  of  the  fact  that  they  have  always  found  the  du 
PontCo.  ready  and  willing  to  do  anything  of  that  sort  ^ 

Senator  aARK.  If  you  ask  my  opinion,  which  is  not  so  important, 
I  do  not  think  the  War  Department  was  justified  m  depleting  it^ 
stock  of  essential  ingredients  for  its  powder  to  the  extent  of  letting 
so  of  60,000  pounds  of  what  they  had.  Have  you  ever  known  of 
Iny  case  in  your  lonff  experience,  Major,  m  which  tlie  head  ot  a 
department,  or  a  branch  of  the  War  Department  or  Navy  Depart- 
ment just  simply  issued  orders  to  a  subordinate  to  do  something 

of  this  sort?  ,  ,  ,,  , 

Mr.  Casey.  I  cannot  think  of  another  one  at  t^e  inoment 
Mr   Irenee  du  Pont.  Senator,  bear  in  mmd  that  67,000  pounds 
represents  2  years'  supply  of  diphenylamine  for  the  Army      It  is 
not  a  working  supply,  but  a  reserve  supply,  and  it  is  important  that 

'^'JnatOT  CLAR^^That  was  an  afterthought  and  a  subterfuge  for 

*  Mr^IplNEE  DU  Pont.  Sixty-seven  thousand  pounds  of  diphenyla- 
mine will   make   12,000,000   pounds   of  powder,   and   I   think  the 
Government  plants  make  only  4,000,000  a  year.       ,     ,      .       , 
The  Chairman.  But  assume  that  an  emergency  had  arisen  i 
Mr   Irenee  du  Pont.  They  could  not  make  12,000,000  pounds  of 
Dowder  before  we  had  the  diphenylamine  back  to  them. 

Mr.  Casey.  We  would  have  had  the  diphenylamine  back  long 
before  they  could  use  it. 


MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY  2665 

Senator  Clark,  Let  us  read  the  context  [reading]  : 

The  contract  prepared  for  reworking  60,000  pounds  of  diphenylumine  and  as 
eventually  obtained,  follows  tlio  laws  of  our  "  standard  contract "  as  used  in 
the  supply  of  smokeless  powder  to  the  Ordnance  Department.  The  provisions 
of  the  contract  are  made  as  simple  as  possible  and  require  no  bond  for  the 
performance. 

So  that  the  Government  was  loaning  the  du  Pont  Co.  the  most  of 
its  reserve  supply  without  any  bond  for  performance.  [Continues 
reading :] 

Further,  article  VI  relating  to  liquidated  damages  has  been  deleted  and  the 
date  of  delivery  was  made  very  liberal,  that  of  March  31,  1925.  We  have 
arranged  to  have  deliveries  at  Raritan  Arsenal,  and  this  point  has  to  us  the 
advantage  of  involving  lower  transportation  costs  than  delivery  to  Picatinny 
Arsenal. 

So  that  in  addition  to  finding  a  way  to  do  it,  the  officials  of  the 
War  Department  seemed  disposed  to  be  just  as  lenient  as  they  pos- 
sibly could  on  the  matter,  not  requiring  a  bond  for  performance,  or 
any  provision  for  liquidated  damages,  such  as  is  usually  contained 
in  such  contracts. 

Mr.  Casey.  No;  not  always. 

Senator  Clark.  Your  own  man  said,  Major,  that  he  took  the  stand- 
ard contract  which  is  used  with  the  Government,  and  deleted  these 
provisions  from  it. 

Mr.  Casey.  The  standard  contract  provides  both  a  bond  and  liqui- 
dated damages,  but  there  is  any  number  of  cases  where  the  Govern- 
ment says,  "We  do  not  want  the  liquidated  damages  in  here  because 
in  a  great  many  cases  the  liquidated-damages  clause  may  require  a 
higher  price  to  safeguard  it." 

Senator  Clark.  Your  representative,  Mr.  Henning,  apparently 
thought  it  was  of  sufficient  importance,  because  he  set  it  out.  He 
says : 

The  contract  prepared  for  reworking  60,000  pounds  of  dipheuylamiue  and  as 
eventually  obtained,  follows  the  laws  of  our  "  standard  contract "  as  used  in 
the  supply  of  smokeless  powder  to  the  Ordance  Department.  The  provisions 
of  the  contract  are  made  as  simple  as  possible  and  require  no  bond  for  the 
performance.  Further,  article  VI  relating  to  liquidated  damages  has  been 
deleted  and  the  date  of  delivery  was  made  very  liberal,  that  of  March  31,  1925. 
We  have  arranged  to  have  deliveries  at  Raritan  Arsenal,  and  this  point  has 
to  us  the  advantage  of  involving  lower  transportation  costs  than  delivery  to 
Picatinny  Arsenal. 

He  evidently  thought  it  was  of  sufficient  importance  to  put  a 
feather  in  his  cap  about  the  good  contract  he  had  been  able  to 
negotiate. 

Mr.  Casey.  Wait  a  minute.  Let  us  take  into  account  personalities. 
Henning  was  a  technical  man.  Whenever  a  technical  man  makes  a 
report,  he  feels  he  is  duty  boimd  to  save  himself  to  report  every 
blessed  thing. 

On  the  question  of  Raritan,  there  is  a  proposition  there :  The  Gov- 
ernment would  prefer  to  have  a  part  of  their  diphenylamine  stock 
at  Raritan,  but  that  would  have  meant  using  some  of  their  funds  for 
transportation. 

Another  thing  you  meet  by  the  contract  is  instead  of  their  paying 
for  the  transportation  of  their  own  diphenylamine  from  Picatinny 
to  Raritan  they  also  got  us  to  move  the  diphenylamine  w^here  they 
preferred  to  have  it. 

83876 — 3.5— PT  12 3 


2666  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Senator  Clark.  Now  I  call  your  attention  to  a  night  letter  signed 
by  Major  Casey,  directed  to  Maj.  N.  F,  Ramsey  at  Picatinny  Ar- 
senal.    He  was  the  commanding  officer  in  charge  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  He  was  the  commanding  officer  in  charge. 

Senator  Clark  (reading)  : 

Our  tnick  will  call  at  arsenal  Thursday  for  load  of  diphenylamine.  Will 
you  please  deliver  approximately  10,000  pounds,  in  accordance  with  our  agree- 
ment with  Ordnance  Department?  Letter  giving  shipping  instructions  for 
balance  of  approximately  50,000  pounds  follows. 

(Signed)     K.  K.  V.  Casey. 

So  that  you  actually  did  take  delivery  of  the  diphenylamine? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes;  and  the  Government  took  delivery  of  diphenyl- 
amine with  99.5  of  diphenylamine  in  it. 

Senator  Clark.  That  letter  may  be  appropriately  numbered. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1000  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2826.) 

Senator  Clark.  I  call  your  attention  to  a  very  strange  communi- 
cation, it  seems  to  me.  Major,  about  which  I  would  like  to  find  out 
the  meaning  [reading]  : 

confidentxajl  memo  fob  major  casey 

November  20,  1924. 
Diphenylamine.     Negotiations  with  Ordnance  Department, 
signed  by  Mr.  Henning. 

I  will  offer  that  for  appropriate  number. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1001 " 
and  appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 
Senator  Clark  [reading]  : 

Referring  to  memorandum  H-105  and  106  on  the  above  subject,  and  to  our 
conversation  this  afternoon,  we  have  anticipated  that  further  developments  on 
this  subject,  especially  those  which  may  be  brought  about  by  the  competitors 
of  the  du  Pont  Co.  endeavoring  to  sell  diphenylamine  of  foreign  manufacture 
in  this  market,  also  the  possible  interest  which  American  dyestuffs  manufac- 
turers might  have  in  the  transaction,  should  lead  us  to  take  steps  to  protect 
ourselves,  as  well  as  the  Ordnance  Department,  from  criticism.  I  thought  it 
well,  therefore,  in  discussing  the  subject  freely  with  Maj.  P.  J.  O'Shaughnessy, 
to  state  briefly  the  relation  between  American  supply  and  our  import  laws,  stat- 
ing specifically  that  if  Mr.  H.  A.  Metz  were  able  to  establish  that  there  was 
no  American  manufacture  of  diphenylamine  that  he  should  be  able  to  sell  for- 
eign-made diphenylamine  in  this  coimtry  without  the  purchaser  paying  the  40 
percent  ad  valorem  import  duty.  This  statement  came  appropriately  after  a 
considerable  general  discussion  of  the  importance  to  the  Ordnance  Department 
and  to  American  defense  of  affording  protection  to  American  manufacture  of 
dyestuffs.  The  Ordnance  Department  is  apparently  thoroughly  appreciative  of 
the  importance  of  chemical  industry  in  general  to  their  plans  for  national 
defense.  It  was  further  stated  that  we  recognize,  and  that  they  probably  also 
recognize,  that  certain  un-American  interests  are  quite  active  in  this  countiy  in 
breaking  down  the  success  and  efficiency  of  the  American  dyestuffs  industry, 
and  that  it  might  be  anticipated  that  if  any  activities  developed  in  tliis  country 
in  criticism  of  our  action  or  of  the  Ordnance  Department  that  they  might  be 
expected  to  originate  with  some  such  person  as  Mr.  Herman  A.  Metz. 

Mr.  Metz  was  formerly  comptroller  of  the  city  of  New  York  and 
a  former  Member  of  Congress  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  believe  so,  but  I  am  not  sure.  I  believe  plenty  of 
our  people  know  who  he  is  in  connection  with  the  dye  industry. 

Senator  Clark.  I  do  not  know  his  connection  with  the  dye  indus- 
try, but  I  know  Metz  and  knew  him  in  Congress. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 


2667 


What  do  you  understand  is  meant  by  that  memorandum?  Do  you 
get  the  impression,  which  is  apparently  conveyed  by  this^  memo- 
randum, that  you  were  manufacturing  diphenylamine,  and  that  any 
importer  who  competes  with  you  would  have  to  pay  a  tarilt,  and  that 
was  the  only  purpose  of  the  manufacture  of  diphenylamine '{ 

Mr.  Casey.  Oh,  no.  Before  the  war  I  do  not  believe  there  was  any 
diphenylamine  made  in  this  country.  When  we  got  into  big  pro- 
duction we  had  to  devise  a  way  to  make  diphenylamine.  It  was  one 
of  our  big  problems.  Here  is  the  close  of  the  war.  One  of  the 
important  things  from  the  standpoint  of  the  United  States  Govern- 
ment was  a  source  of  supply  in  connection  with  the  things  needed  in 
connection  with  the  manufacture  of  all  the  important  components, 
Diphenylamine  was  one  of  them. 

Now,  if  foreigners  were  able  to  come  in  here  and  put  us  out  of  the 
business,  it  would  have  affected  the  national  defense. 

Senator  Clark.  What  did  you  understand  by  Mr.  Henning  going 
down  and  talking  to  this  major  in  the  War  Department  and  explain- 
ing to  him  that  if  there  was  any  criticism  of  this  loan  of  the  Govern- 
ment's reserve  stock  of  diphenylamine,  it  would  come  from  a  man. 
named  Metz  because  of  his  tariff  views? 

Mr.  Casey.  Do  you  not  think.  Senator,  that  we  are  interested  in 
the  integrity  of  this  country  as  well  as  anybody  else,  and  we  are 
duty  bound  to  inform  the  proper  officer  of  what  we  thought  might  go 
on,  if  there  was  an  opportunity  given  to  help  un-American  interests, 
as  we  thought? 

Senator  Clark.  Apparently  the  thing  about  which  you  were  in- 
forming the  War  Department  was  that  unless  they  loaned  you  their 
reserve  stock  of  diphenylamine,  somebody  else  might  use  it  as  an 
argument  for  taking  off  the  tariff  on  diphenylamine. 

Mr.  Casey.  Do  j^ou  not  think  there  is  a  sequence  of  dates  there? 

Senator  Clark.  What  is  the  sequence  of  dates? 

Mr.  Casey.  Was  not  this  after  the  agreement  was  made? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  About  the  same  time. 

Mr.  Casey.  Or  about  the  same  time  ? 

Senator  Cij^rk.  It  was  the  day  before  the  memorandum. 

Mr.  Casey.  Before  the  first  memorandum,  was  it? 

Senator  Clark.  It  was  the  same  day,  both  dated  November  20, 
1924. 

Mr.  Casey.  Which  one? 

Senator  Clark.  The  one  which  I  just  read,  in  which  he  boasted  of 
the  contract  secured,  dated  November  20,  1924,  and,  in  addition  to 
that,  he  wrote  you  this  confidential  memorandum  in  which  he  told 
you  he  had  explained  to  Major  O'Shaughnessy  that  if  there  was  any 
criticism  of  this  deal,  it  would  come  from  un-American  sources  who 
were  interested  in  breaking  down  the  tariff. 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator,  would  you  not  have  done  the  same? 

Senator  Clark.  How  is  that? 

Mr.  Casey.  Would  you  not  have  done  the  same,  if  you  felt  there 
was  an  un-American  influence  attacking  our  integrity?* 

Senator  Clark.  You  think  that  anybody  who  desires  to  import 
into  this  country  in  competition  with  your  products  is  un-American. 

Mr.  Casey.  Oh,  no ;  I  would  not  say  "that.  I  say  that  any  importa- 
tion of  material  which  will  put  out  of  business  an  American  manu- 


2668  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

factuier  of  an  essential  component,  involving  the  national  defense, 
that  that  is  an  un-American  activity. 

Senator  Clark.  Yes;  but,  Major,  what  this  memorandum  indi- 
cates is  that  this  man  was  down  there  negotiating  a  contract,  the 
provisions  of  which  were  of  doubtful  legality,  and  in  which  it  had 
been  necessary  to  beat  the  devil  around  the  stump  by  getting  at  the 
reconditioning  theory  as  an  excuse,  and  an  agent  down  there  turns 
around  to  the  man  who  negotiated  this  very  lenient  contract  and 
says,  himself,  that  if  anybody  criticizes  the  loaning  of  the  United 
States'  reserve  stock  of  diphenylamine,  it  will  be  from  un-American 
interests. 

Mr.  Casey.  Do  you  not  think  the  purpose  is  clear  ? 

Senator  Clark.  I  do,  and  I  want  to  know  if  you  agree  with  me? 

Mr.  Casey.  Major  O'Shaughnessy  was  not  the  negotiator  but  the 
legal  representative. 

Senator  Clark.  He  was  preparing  the  contract? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes;  he  was  preparing  the  details  of  the  contract. 

Senator  Clark.  Now,  as  a  matter  of  fact.  Major,  you  stated  when 
you  took  the  diphenylamine  it  was  of  poor  qualit}^  and  it  was  in 
poor  condition  and  of  varying  qualities? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is  what  I  understand.  The  Government  was 
really  a  distinct  gainer  by  that  transaction. 

Senator  Clark.  And  it  afforded  them  an  additional  excuse  after 
the  fact  for  the  transaction? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Senator,  I  do  not  think  you  are  quite  fair 
in  referring  to  that  as  an  excuse.    It  was  a  reason. 

Senator  Clark.  Mr.  du  Pont,  the  correspondence  very  clearly 
shows  it  was  an  excuse.  Long  before  the  question  of  reconditioning 
was  ever  mentioned  by  anyone,  and  before  any  such  excuse  was  ever 
conceived  of.  General  Williams  said  he  was  very  doubtful  of  the 
legality  of  it,  but  said  to  his  subordinate  to  go  find  a  way  to  do  it, 
and  he  then  found  a  way  to  do  something  which  was  of  doubtful 
legality,  and,  after  two  or  three  attempts,  they  hit  on  the  recondi- 
tioning as  an  excuse. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  They  found  it  a  reason  for  it. 

Senator  Clark.  After  they  had  been  ordered  to  make  a  contract, 
they  found  a  reason  for  it.    They  found  an  additional  reason  for  it. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Correct.  The  reason  was  a  better  reason 
than  they  first  thought. 

Senator  Clark.  Apparently  General  Williams  did  not  know  any 
way  when  he  ordered  Harris  to  try  to  find  a  way  to  make  the 
contract. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  think  that  that  is  a  fair  statement. 
Senator.     You  do  not  know  what  was  in  General  Williams'  mind. 

Senator  Clark.  All  I  have  is  Henning's  statement, 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  That  may  not  be  all  he  had  in  his  mind. 

Senatoi-  Clark.  He  stated  it  was  of  very  doubtful  legality,  and 
told  Harris  to  find  a  way  to  do  it. 

Then  comes  along  a  memorandum  dated  November  21,  1924,  from 
Mr.  Henning,  which  I  will  offer  for  appropriate  number. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1002  " 
and  appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2669 

Senator  Clark.  That  reads: 
Report  No.   107-H-1924,  Picatinny  Arsenal,  November  21,  1924. 

The  following  subjects  were  discussed  with  Major  Ramsey  and  Miles : 

"  1.  Diphenylamiue.     •  Refining '  of  60,000  pounds. 

"  Endeavored  to  ascertain  in  detail  the  origin,  quality,  condition  of  pack- 
ages, etc.  The  stuck  of  diphenlyamine  on  hand  at  the  arsenal  is  all  stored  in 
building  no.  218.  It  has  not  been  carefully  segregated  as  to  lot  numbers  or 
origin.  It  stands  on  the  arsenal  records  as  consisting  mostly  of  General  Chem- 
ical Co.'s  '  Lot  No.  112.'  It  was  shipped  during  the  war  to  the  Hercules 
Powder  Co.  at  Kenvil  on  requisition  no.  HHK  879,  and  afterwards  disposed 
of  as  surplus,  being  transferred  to  Picatinny  Arsenal.  Some  few  of  the  wooden 
barrels  in  which  it  is  packed  have  tags  indicating  that  it  came  from  the 
General  Chemical  Co.'s  '  Baker  &  Adamson  Works '  at  Easton,  Pa.  Many  of 
the  wooden  barrels  are  in  poor  condition,  having  inadequate  hoops,  and  unless 
considerable  care  is  taken  In  recording  both  gross  and  net  weights  received, 
there  is  a  good  chance  for  argument  over  the  weight  received.  Many  barrels 
are  marked  '  250  ll>s.'  although  there  is  obvious  variation  in  size  and  weight. 

"  The  diphenylamine  if?  of  a  buff  or  brown  color,  possil)ly  due  to  oxidation 
from  storage  in  poor  containers.  Barium  nitrate  is  now  stored  on  top  of  some 
of  the  barrels,  hence  it  would  not  be  surprising  if  there  were  contamination 
from  this  source.  The  laboratory  analyses  are  not  conclusive  as  to  the  quality 
of  the  product,  although  mostly  indicating  that  the  diphenylamine  does  not 
strictly  comply  with  the  requirements  of  the  Ordnance  Department  specifica- 
tions. Thesie  deficiencies  are  color;  insoluble  content,  and  color  of  sulphuric 
acid  solution.  I  have  requested  Picatinny  Arsenal  to  write  a  letter  transmitting 
to  us  copies  of  their  laboratory  tests ;  also  I  advised  Major  Ramsey  that  it  was 
desired  to  place  on  record  the  fact  that  their  stock  of  diiilieuylamine  did  not 
comi)ly  with  specifications,  was  poorly  packed,  and  in  need  of  refining,  and  that 
this  record  might  be  needed  to  avoid  criticism  in  the  future.  Major  F.  H. 
Miles  accompanied  the  writer  to  the  building  in  which  the  diphenylamiue  was 
stored,  and  assisted  in  the  inspection,  also  search  for  laboratory  records.  At 
the  first  opportunity  the  information  gained  was  passed  on  to  Wilmington  by 
telephone,  on  account  of  its  possible  effect  on  plans  for  handling  the  details  of 
transportation,  refining,  etc." 

Major,  that  would  indicate  that  the  Government — the  War  Depart- 
ment— had  been  very  careless  in  its  handling  of  its  reserve  stock  of 
diphenylamine,  would  it  not  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  would  not  say  so.  It  came  from  the  Hercules  Pow'der 
Co.  and  had  been  transshipped  as  surplus,  and  the  Lord  only  knows 
whether  or  not  the  barrels  may  have  been  broken,  or  something  of 
the  sort. 

Senator  Clark.  I  understand  that,  Major,  but  the  fact  that  it  was 
reserve,  if  the  reserve  was  to  be  of  any  effect,  it  ought  to  be  just  as 
good  as  that  in  actual  use,  ought  it  not,  and  your  own  technical  man, 
Mr.  Henning,  states  that  they  were  storing  barium  nitrate  on  top 
of  some  of  the  barrels,  and  that  it  was  likely  contamination  would 
resitlt  from  that  source,  and  his  whole  description  of  the  thing  would 
indicate  to  anj^  lay  mind  such  as  mine  that  the  Government  liad  been 
very  careless  in  its  taking  care  of  the  reserve  stock. 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator,  I  would  not  want  to  criticize,  not  knowing  the 
situation. 

Senator  Clark.  I  can  understand,  since  you  do  business  with  the 
War  Department  you  might  not  be  as  free  in  your  expression  of 
opinion  as  you  might  otherwise. 

Mr.  Casey.  Leave  that  out.  I  think  that  is  not  an  indication  of 
criticism. 

Senator  Clark.  That  was  a  confidential  memorandum  to  you  ? 


2670  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is  not  confidential.  But  there  may  have  been 
instances  at  such  time  that  in  moving  stuff  all  around  the  country 
they  could  not  exercise  the  care  they  would  in  ordinary  times,  in 
ordinary  transportation  in  time  of  peace. 

Senator  Clark.  It  would  seem  to  me  from  Henning's  memorandum 
that  the  Government  at  some  previous  time  had  accepted  diphenyla- 
mine  as  either  short  in  weight  or  it  did  not  meet  the  specifications. 

Mr.  Casey.  That  I  do  not  know. 

Senator  Clark.  That  would  seem  to  be  the  inference  from  the 
memorandum. 

Mr.  Casey.  It  might  be  possible  as  a  result  of  our  experience  with 
inspectors. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Senator,  I  agree  with  Major  Casey  that 
this  is  not  a  proof  of  carelessness,  and  I  would  also  like  to  point 
out  that  this  was  an  additional  reason  after  the  fact. 

Senator  Clark.  I  am  not  disputing  that.  It  may  be  that  the  deal 
turned  out  to  the  advantage  of  the  Government.  I  have  not  dis- 
puted that  at  any  time.  The  Government  got  its  diphenylamine 
back,  I  understand,  before  any  emergency  developed  which  might 
have  required  it,  but  the  essential  feature  in  the  whole  transaction 
is,  it  was  stated  by  General  Williams,  without  any  qualifications 
whatever,  to  be  of  doubtful  legality,  yet  he  ordered  it  carried  out. 

Just  to  close  up  this  transaction,  I  offer  for  the  record  a  letter 
from  the  War  Department,  signed  by  Major  O'Shaughnessy,  ad- 
dressed to  the  du  Pont  Co.,  dated  December  22,  1924. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1003 "  and 
appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Clark.  That  reads : 

I   am   transmitting  herewith,  for  your  files,   your  number  of  the   contract, 
fully  executed,  entered  into  with  you  under  date  November  19,  1924,  covering 
reworking  of  60,000  pounds  of  diphenylamine  located  at  the  Picatinny  Arsenal. 
For  the  Chief  of  Ordnance: 
Respectfully, 

P.  J.  O'Shaughnessy. 

Now,  I  call  your  attention.  Major,  to  a  memorandum  dated 
December  4,  1924,  which  I  will  offer  for  appropriate  number. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1004  " 
and  appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Clark.  First,  let  me  call  your  attention  to  the  letter 
which  I  just  read — "  Exhibit  No.  1003."  It  is  very  short,  and  I  will 
read  it  again : 

I  am  transmitting  herewith,  for  your  files,  your  number  of  the  contract, 
fully  executed,  entered  into  with  you  under  date  November  19,  1924,  covering 
reworking  of  G0,000  pounds  of  diphenylamine  located  at  the  Picatinny  Arsenal. 

Now,  from  reading  the  files  of  the  War  Department,  it  would  not 
ho  possible  to  determine  what  the  nature  of  this  contract  was, 
would  it? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  I  do  not  know. 

Senator  Clark.  That  letter  does  not  indicate  what  the  contract 
was. 

Mr,  Casey,  The  letter  might  not  indicate  it. 

Senator  Clark,  The  letter  says  it  was  a  contract  for  recondition- 
ing. As  a  matter  of  fact,  it  was  a  loan  of  the  powder  to  you,  to  be 
returned  by  a  different  grade  of  ingredient.    That  is  what  the  con- 


? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2671 

tract  really  was,  the  Government  really  loaning  you  60,000  pounds, 
and  you  returning  60,000  pounds  of  a  grade  that  would  conform 
to  a  more  stringent  specification? 

Mr.  Casey.  Right. 

Senator  Clark.  Now  I  read  you  another  memorandum,  signed 
by  the  dyestuffs  department,  by  Mr.  G.  T.  Barnhill,  Jr.,  dated 
December  4,  1924,  memorandum  for  the  explosives  department,  atten- 
tion W.  S.  Lynch,  headed  "  Diphenylamine  "  [reading  "  Exhibit  No. 
1004  "]  : 

The  du  Pont  Co.,  under  a  contract  negotiated  through  the  military  sales 
division,  has  arranged  to  borrow  00,000'  pounds  of  diphenylamine  from  the 
United  States  Government  at  Picatlnny  Ai-senal ;  50,000  pounds  of  the  di- 
phenylamine is  now  en  route  to  Repauno  to  he  reworked  and  the  other  10,000 
pounds  has  been  delivered  to  the  dye  works  and  will  not  be  reworked.  As  I 
undersitand  the  contract,  the  entire  quantity  of  60,000  pounds  is  to  be  returned 
to  Picatinny  Arsenal  at  a  date  specified  in  the  contract. 

There  have  been  no  internal  arrangements  made  for  accounting  in  connection 
with  this  transaction,  and  since  the  replacement  will  be  made  from  Repauno, 
it  would  seem  proper  for  dye  works  to  send  an  order  to  the  explosives  depart- 
ment for  10,000  pounds  of  diphenylamine  to  be  billed  at  the  present  transfer 
price  of  45  cents  per  pound. 

If  this  procedure  is  satisfactory,  please  advis»e. 

Now,  do  you  know  whether  that  method  was  carried  out,  Major? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  I  do  not  know.  You  see,  that  was  not  a  trans- 
action in  which  we  were  in  any  way  involved.  We  simply  got  a  copy 
of  the  letter. 

Senator  Clakk.  Do  you  know,  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  No. 

Senator  Clark.  The  point  I  make  is,  if  that  procedure  were  fol- 
lowed, suggested  by  Mr.  Barnhill,  then  your  own  account  books 
would  not  show  the  real  nature  of  this  transaction. 

Mr.  Casey.  That  may  be  the  case.    I  do  not  Imow,  Senator. 

Senator  Clark.  Do  you  have  any  other  instances  of  that  sort, 
Major,  where  transactions  were  entered  into  which  would  not  show 
in  your  accounts? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  think  so.  I  cannot  think  of  any.  It  might 
be,  but  I  do  not  know. 

I  can  say  this:  That  there  would  not  be  anything  of  that  sort 
unless  it  were  to  the  advantage  of  the  Government. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Senator,  it  might  be  pertinent  to  mention 
that  this  matter  of  reworking  military  supplies  is  not  unusual  at  all. 
Most  of  my  powder  experience  has  been  in  black  powder,  and  it  was 
a  very  usual  thing  for  the  Government  to  send  the  du  Pont  Co. 
black  powder  to  be  reworked. 

Senator  Clark.  I  understand  that. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  May  I  continue  a  moment  ? 

Senator  Clark.  Excuse  me. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  The  practice  in  reworking  that  was  that 
practically  never  does  the  same  poAvder  go  back  which  you  receive. 
Literally  it  was  impossible  to  do  so.  And  it  is  a  perfectly  well- 
recognized  fact  that  when  the  powder  is  reworked,  the  actual  pound- 
age which  we  returned  was  not  that  which  we  received. 

Senator  Clark.  I  can  perfectly  well  understand  that,  Iklr.  du 
Pont.  The  actual  point  of  this  transaction  which  impressed  itself  on 
my  mmd  was  not  as  to  whether  it  worked  to  the  benefit  of  the  Gov- 
ernment.   I  can  very  readily  understand  that  in  the  ordinary  course 


2672  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

the  Government  might  have  s(jme  powder,  or  any  other  ingredient 
of  war,  which  might  have  deteriorated  and  needed  to  be  worked 
over,  and  might  take  bids  from  suppliers  of  that  particular  munition, 
or  that  a  man  who  was  engaged  in  that  business  or  a  representative 
of  a  company  engaged  in  that  busiriess  might  go  to  the  War  Depart- 
ment and  say,  ''  You  have  got  some  diplienylamine  over  there  which 
has  been  here  a  long  time,  and  we  have  improved  the  process,  im- 
proved the  quality,  and  why  do  you  not  let  us  work  that  over?  " 

That  is  one  thing.  But  for  a  company  which  is  engaged  in  private 
business  for  their  own  purposes,  not  for  purposes  of  the  Government 
but  for  their  own  purposes,  to  go  to  the  Chief  of  Ordnance  and  say, 
"  We  need  most  of  your  reserve  supply  of  diplienylamine  ",  and  for 
him  to  say,  "  I  have  very  grave  doubt  about  the  legality  for  it,  but 
I  will  tell  my  subordinate,  Major  Harris,  to  go  find  a  way  to  do 
it ",  that,  to  my  mind,  is  the  outstanding  and  essential  feature  of 
this  transaction  in  the  matter  of  ordinary  routine  of  the  Government 
wanting  some  powder  reconditioned. 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator,  I  am  willing  to  bet  dollars  to  doughnuts  that 
if  you  had  been  Chief  of  Ordnance  at  the  same  time,  you  would  have 
done  the  same  thing. 

Senator  Clark.  I  am  willing  to  bet  dollars  to  doughnuts  I  would 
not  have  done  anything  of  the  kind. 

RELATIONS  OF  DU  PONT  CO.  WITH  THE  STATE  DEPARTMENT 

Senator  Clark.  I  call  attention  to  a  memorandum  dated  May  3, 
1932,  memorandum  to  Maj.  K.  K.  V.  Casey,  signed  by  Colonel  Simons, 
which  I  oifer  for  appropriate  number. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No,  1005  " 
and  appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Clark  (reading)  : 

On  my  visit  to  Washington  on  Friday.  April  2t),  I  called  on  Capt.  William 
Baggaley,  Office  of  Naval  Intelligence,  and  handed  him  a  copy  of  the  correspond- 
ence between  the  Mitsubishi  Co.  of  Japan,  and  I. CI.  wherein  it  developed  that 
the  Japanese  were  trying  to  buy  a  du  Pout  mechanical  dipper  from  the  above 
British  firm,  and  had  been  informed  that  it  was  not  available. 

Senator  Clark.  What  is  the  mechanical  dipper? 
Mr.  Casey.  That  is  a  dipper  used  in  the  process  of  manufacturing 
nitrocellulose ;  is  it  not,  Mr.  Bradway  ? 
Mr.  Bradway.  Yes. 
Senator  Clark   (reading)  : 

This  enabled  me  to  develop  the  point  of  view  of  Naval  Intelligence  on  the 
sale  of  munitions  or  luunition-producing  machinery  to  the  Japanese.  The  atti- 
tude of  the  Navy  Department  has  not  changed  and  they  still  believe  it  not 
only  permissible,  but  desirable,  for  American  firms  to  sell  such  material  and 
equipment  to  the  Japanese,  basing  their  judgment  on  the  fact  that  the  .Japanese 
will  undoubtedly  purchase  what  they  desire  anyhow,  and  that  it  is  desirable  for 
America  to  secure  the  business  and  the  Navy  to  be  informed  of  the  amount  and 
nature  of  the  purchases,  which  information  would  be  lacking  if  purchases  were 
made  in  Europe. 

It  would  not  disclose  anything  as  to  the  nature  and  amount  of  the 
purchases  for  the  Japanese  to  have  a  mechanical  dipper,  would  it? 

Mr.  Casey.  No;  but  a  mechanical  dipper  represents  a  certain, 
capacity  in  powder. 

Senator  Clark  (reading)  : 

Later  on  I  called  at  the  Office  of  Assistant  Chief  of  StafC  G-2— 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2673 

That  is  Military  Intelligence? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Clark  (continuing  reading)  : 

•and  similarly  discussed  the  situation  witli  Majors  Wilson,  Marley,  and  Kroner, 
-with  substantially  the  same  results,  that  is  to  say,  that  the  Army  sees  no  objec- 
tion whatsoever  to  our  dealing  with  Japan. 

My  conversations  with  all  of  these  oflBcers  were  confidential.  They  under- 
stand, of  course,  that  I  report  my  actions  to  my  superiors,  but  at  the  same  time 
they  should  not  be  embarrassed  by  the  information  herein  contained  reaching 
the'state  Department,  especially  since  I  had  requested  them  not  to  report  these 
conversations  to  the  State  Department. 

Mr.  Casey.  You  left  out  one  sentence. 

Senator  Clark.  I  left  out  one  sentence.     I  will  be  glad  to  read  it. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  wish  you  would. 

Senator  Clark  (reading)  : 

It  was  here  stated  that  the  announced  policy  of  the  State  Department  was 
not  to  hamper  in  any  way  trade  with  Japan,  since  any  embargo  would  be 
regarded  as  an  unfriendly  act  and  tend  to  render  more  difficult  the  already 
delicate  situation  in  the  Orient. 

Then  he  goes  on  to  the  paragraph  which  I  just  read,  which  I  will 
read  again: 

My  conversations  with  all  of  these  officers  were  confidential.  They  under- 
stand, of  course,  that  I  report  my  actions  to  my  superiors,  but  at  the  same 
time  they  should  not  be  embarrassed  by  the  information  herein  contained 
reaching  the  State  Department,  especially  since  I  had  requested  them  not 
to  report  these  conversations  to  the  State  Department. 

Major,  how  does  that  square  with  the  testimony  we  had  here  last 
week,  that  you  never  did  anything  about  the  sale  of  munitions  with- 
out the  permission  of  the  State  Department? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  think  I  said  that. 

Senator  Clark.  We  had  that  repeatedly  stated  in  connection 
with 

Mr.  Casey.  I  said  where  there  was  an  embargo. 

Senator  Clark.  Where  there  was  an  embargo? 

Mr.  Casey.  Now,  here  is  the  point 

Senator  Clark.  In  other  words,  here  you,  through  your  represent- 
ative, are  actively  seeking  to  prevent  the  State  Department,  which 
has  control  of  our  foreign  relations,  from  learning  of  the  conversa- 
tions that  you  had  with  the  War  and  Navy  Departments. 

Mr.  Casey.  Within  the  last  6  months  I  was  told  this  right  in  the 
State  Department  by  a  man  I  know  pretty  well.  He  said :  "  Casey, 
I  wish  you  fellows  would  not  come  to  us  when  you  have  a  propo- 
sition to  sell  to  a  foreign  government  and  ask  us  if  we  can  give 
you  permission.  We  have  no  right  to  either  approve  or  disapprove 
of  anjr  such  action  unless  there  is  an  embargo,  when  it  is  then  our  job. 
When  you  come  to  us  and  ask  us  for  permission,  we  have  to  go  to 
work  and  simply  say  we  cannot  give  you  permission,  nor  can  we  dis- 
approve of  the  shipment:  but  it  only  embarrasses  us  to  have  those 
questions  asked." 

Senator  Clark,  Why  would  it  embarrass  the  officers  of  the  Mili- 
tary and  Naval  Intelligence  with  whom  Colonel  Simons  had  had  his 
conversations  for  that  information  to  reach  the  State  Department? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  I  do  not  know. 


2674  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Senator  Clark  (reading) : 

My  conversations  with  all  of  these  oflScers  were  confidential.  They  under- 
stand, of  course,  that  I  report  my  actions  to  my  superiors,  but  at  the  same 
time  they  should  not  be  embarrassed  by  the  information  herein  contained 
reaching  the  State  Department. 

That  very  clearly  shows  a  definite  effort  to  keep  that  information 
away  from  the  State  Department,  which  has  control  of  our  foreign 
affairs,  and  that  is  conclusively  proven  by  the  last  part  of  the  sen- 
tence, "  especially  since  I  had  requested  them  " — that  is,  the  du 
Pont  representative  had  requested  the  Military  and  Naval  Intelli- 
gence "  not  to  report  these  conversations  to  the  State  Department." 
Yet  they  dealt  with  matters  that  might  be  of  the  most  vital  impor- 
tance to  our  foreign  relations. 

Mr.  Casey.  Has  not  the  position  of  the  State  Department  been 
stated  in  the  previous  paragraph? 

Senator  Clark.  It  was  stated  what  the  impression  was  that  tha 
Military  Intelligence  had.  But  why,  then,  was  it  necessary  for 
Colonel  Simons  to  warn  you  against  that  information  reaching  the 
State  Department,  and  stating  that  it  would  be  an  embarrassment  to 
the  Military  and  Naval  Intelligence,  and  then  stating  that  he  had 
advised  them  not  to  report  any  of  that  information  to  the  State 
Department  ? 

Mr.  Caset.  Senator,  I  cannot  speak  for  either  the  Military  or 
Naval  Intelligence  as  to  their  reason. 

Senator  Clark.  I  am  getting  at  Colonel  Simon's  recommendation 
to  you.     He  was  your  representative. 

The  Chairman.  Major  Casey,  the  date  involved  here  is  quite 
closely  related  to  the  Manchukuo  controversy.  Is  there  any  rela- 
tionship at  all  there  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  I  could  not  tell  you.  You  see,  this  inquiry  did 
not  come  to  us.     It  came  to  LCI. 

Senator  Clark.  Yes;  but  the  question  of  the  discussion  of  policy 
was  between  your  representative  and  Military  and  Naval  Intelligence. 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is  perfectly  correct. 

Senator  Clark.  I  am  not  talking  about  where  the  inquiry  came 
from.  The  point  I  am  making  is  this,  that  a  representative  of  the 
du  Pont  Co.  went  down  and  conferred  with  Military  and  Naval  In- 
telligence on  a  question  of  policy  which  might  conceivably  have 
involved  the  United  States  in  war. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  see  that. 

Senator  Clark.  And  specifically  requested  them  not  to  convey  that 
information  to  the  State  Department. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Senator,  I  think  it  is  clear  from  this 
letter  that  the  proposition  had  not  reached  a  stage  where  it  was 
important  that  it  should  be  communicated  to  the  State  Department. 

Senator  Clark.  I  am  not  asking  as  to  why  it  was  important  it 
should  be  communicated  to  the  State  Department,  I  am  asking  why 
it  is  important  it  should  not  be,  whicli  this  memorandum  clearly 
indicates  was  the  desire. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  There  were  good  reasons  at  that  time  why 
it  should  not  be  conununicated. 

Senator  Clark.  Do  you  know  what  they  were  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  No  ;  they  were  Military  and  Naval  Intelligence  reasons. 

Senator  Clark.  Do  you  know  what  the  reasons  were,  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2675 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Senator,  may  I  point  out  that  the  inquiry  had 
been  addressed  to  the  I.C'.L,  and  Mitsubishi  had  been  informed  that 
the  dipper  was  not  available  there,  so  the  negotiations  did  come  back 
to  this  country  and  to  this  company. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  understand  the  shipment  was  not  made. 

Senator  Clark.  Just  on  this  question  of  relations  with  the  State 
Department  I  desire  to  drop  back  to  another  matter  briefly.  I  call 
your  attention  to  a  letter  dated  March  15,  1926.  This  is  the  one  of 
which  you  said  you  did  not  have  a  copy. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  No  ;  we  do  not  have  that,  I  am  afraid. 

Senator  Clark.  Well,  I  will  come  back  to  that  in  a  minute.  I 
will  pass  that  for  a  moment. 

Mr.  du  Pont,  is  the  du  Pont  Co.  receiving  benefits  of  any  P.W.A. 
money  at  the  present  time  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Not  that  I  know  of ;  I  think  not. 

Senator  Clark.  In  contracts  from  the  Navy? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  we  are,  Lammot.  I  think  there  was  a  Navy 
contract  last  year  for  some  powder. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Have  we  got  the  benefits  of  P.W.A.  money  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  They  said  it  was  P.W.A.  money,  because  there  were 
certain  provisions  in  the  contract  which  applied  to  the  P.W.A.  situa- 
tion. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Mr.  Casey  is  better  informed  that  I  am.  I 
did  not  know  it. 

Senator  Clark.  I  call  your  attention  to  a  memorandum  dated  Jan- 
uary 12,  1924,  from  Major  Casey,  headed  "Washington,  D.  C, 
January  11,  1934." 

"  Saw  General  Tschappat " — he  is  the  Assistant  Chief  of  Ord- 
nance, is  he  not? 

Mr.  Casey.  Chief  of  Ordnance  right  now. 

Senator  Clark.  He  was  Assistant  Chief  at  this  time  ? 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1006  ''  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2826.) 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes ;  General  Hof  was  then  Chief  of  Ordnance. 

Senator  Clark  (reading)  : 

Saw  General  Techappat,  who  advised  me  that  while  they  had  had  nothing 
definite  regarding  the  Public  Works  money  for  the  fiscal  year  1935,  that  they 
were  relying  on  the  promise  the  President  had  made  to  The  Assistant  Secretary 
of  War,  Woodring,  where  he  agi-eed  to  allot  the  Ordnance  Department 
$6,000,000  per  year  for  2  years  in  order  to  enable  them  to  continue  with  their 
ammunition  projects. 

Mr.  Casey.  They  got  that.  I  believe  it  was  urged  by  Secretary 
Perkins  in  order  that  they  could  keep  their  personnel  at  Picatinny 
Arsenal  employed ;  otherwise  they  might  have  had  to  shut  down. 

Senator  Clark.  How  much  of  it  did  you  get,  Major;  do  you 
know? 

Mr.  Casey.  We  may  have  gotten  a  couple  of  hundred  thousand 
dollars  out  of  it,  something  of  that  sort.     I  do  not  know. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Senator,  I  am  confused  on  this  matter.  If 
we  got  any  benefit  of  P.W.A.  money,  it  must  have  been  from  the  sale 
of  goods  which  were  paid  for. 

Senator  Clark.  Yes ;  I  assume  that  is  true. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  We  cannot  tell  where  customers  get  their 
money. 


2676  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Senator  Clark.  Apparently  you  knew.  You  may  not  have  known 
personally,  but  it  was  within  the  knowledge  of  officials  of  your 
company. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  We  may  have  been  told. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  in  the  case  of  the  Army,  I  do  not  have  any 
recollection  at  the  moment  that  there  were  any  provisions  in  the  con- 
tracts we  made  with  them  directly  referring  to  provisions  of  the 
P.W.A.     We  did  have  that  with  the  Navy,  however. 

Senator  Clark.  That  was  my  understanding,  Major.  I  have  never 
been  informed  that  you  had  any  contracts  with  the  Army  involving 
P.W.A.  funds,  but  you  did  have  contracts  with  the  Navy. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Clark.  Which  involved  the  use  of  allotments  of  P.W.A. 
funds. 

Mr,  Casey.  And  therefore  there  were  certain  additional  provisions 
put  in  the  contracts  to  cover  that  situation. 

By  the  way,  Senator,  you  may  remember  my  referring  to  an  inci- 
dent a  little  while  ago.  The  next  paragraph  brings  that  out,  on 
the  first  page. 

Senator  Clark.  What  is  that? 

Mr.  Casey.  This  is  the  letter  of  January  12  from  which  you  just 
read ;  the  last  paragraph  on  the  first  page. 

Senator  Clark.  Yes.  I  am  just  coming  to  that  now,  Major.  I 
will  ask  you  about  it: 

Had  quite  a  discussion  with  Majoi-  Borden 

Who  is  Major  Borden? 

Mr,  Casey,  In  charge  of  the  small  arms  and  anti-aircraft  section 
of  the  Ammimition  Division  of  the  Ordnance  Department, 
Senator  Clark  (reading)  : 

Had  quite  a  discussion  witli  Major  Borden  on  the  general  topic  of  the  sales 
of  ])owder  to  foreign  countries.  Major  Borden  stated  that  they  knew  the 
position  du  Pont  would  take  in  such  matters  in  case  they  should  request 
that  material  not  be  supplied  to  a  certain  power  but  he  asked  if  we  would 
be  willing  to  go  a  step  further  and  refuse  to  supply  material  to  a  manufacturer 
of  ammunition  who  in  turn  might  be  offering  it  to  a  foreign  power  where  they 
were  anxious  to  prevent  this  foreign  power  from  getting  ammunition.  I  soon 
gathered  from  Major  Borden  that  he  had  in  mind  particularly  .50  caliber 
powder  and  while  he  did  not  mention  Cuba  it  was  clear  that  he  was  referring 
to  the  shipment  by  the  Remington  Arms  Co.  of  100,000  rounds  of  .50  caliber 
ammunition.  Major  Borden  advised  me  that  the  money  for  the  purchase  of 
150,000 

It  says  "  pounds  " ;  "  rounds  "  in  one  place,  and  *'  poimds  "  in 
another. 

Mr.  Casey.  One  is  powder  and  the  other  is  rounds  of  ammunition. 
Senator  Clark  (reading)  : 

150,000  pounds  of  .30  caliber  powder  had  come  about  in  this  manner.  After 
setting  aside  all  the  money  secured  from  the  Public  Works  last  year  they 
discovered  they  would  have  a  slight  sun^lus  and,  therefore,  it  was  decided  that 
rather  than  turn  this  money  back  to  the  Treasury  they  would  utilize  the 
surplus  to  buy  what  material  they  could  for  the  next  fiscal  year's  consumption, 
I  discussed  generalities  with  Colonel  Wesson  and  Major  Zornig. 

Mr,  Casey,  That  is  the  incident  I  referred  to  a  little  while  ago. 

Senator  Clark,  Yes. 

Mr.  Rausiienbush.  Major,  in  testifying  about  orders  from  the 
Army,  were  they  or  were  they  not  accompanied  with  the  special 
P.W.A,  provisions  that  accompanied  the  Navy  orders? 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRIE  2677 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  think  they  were. 

Xow,  I  am  not  going  to  take  an  oath  to  that  effect,  because  I  want 
to  be  sure  when  I  make  a  positive  "  Yes  "  statement.  But  I  really 
do  not  think  they  were.  But  we  do  know  in  the  case  of  the  Navy  we 
had  definite  P.W.A.  requirements  to  meet. 

Mr.  Kaushenbush.  Let  us  get  it  straight: 

Are  you  under  the  impression  that  some  of  these  other  orders 
recently  were  from  P.W.A.  funds,  as  the  letter  seems  to  indicate  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  think  they  were,  because  we  did  not  have 
those  provisions. 

Mr.  Eaushenbush.  And  you  are  not  quite  sure  about  the  pro- 
visions ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  am  not  sure  at  all. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Would  Mr.  Bradway  or  somebody  else  be  able 
to  testify  there  on  that  point? 

Mr.  Casey.  We  can  find  out;  if  the  matter  is  of  sufficient  impor- 
tance, we  can  find  out.  We  would  have  to  get  in  touch  with  Wil- 
mington. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  You  testified  further  a  moment  ago  about  how 
it  happened  that  some  of  those  P.W.A.  funds  were  allocated  to  the 
War  Department,  and  stated  that  Miss  Perkins,  the  Secretary  of 
Labor,  I  take  it,  had  asked  that  that  be  done. 

Mr.  Casey.  Of  course,  I  have  no  first-hand  information. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  You  testified  to  it,  it  seemed,  very  positively, 
and  then  wanted  to  check  where  your  information  came  from  on  that 
point. 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is  simply  what  I  was  told. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Who  told  you  on  that  'i 

Mr.  Casey.  Somebody  in  the  Ordnance  Department.  I  could  not 
tell  you  that. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Somebody  in  the  Ordnance  Department? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  is  ail  I  had.  Senator. 

Senator  Clark.  I  call  your  attention  to  a  memorandum  dated  May 
22,  1931,  from  Colonel  Simons  to  Mr.  T.  R.  Hanley,  legal  department. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1007  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  page  2827.) 

Senator  Clark  (reading)  : 

lu  reference  to  negotiations  now  being  conducted  between  t!ie  du  Pont 
Ammonia  Corporation  and  a  national  or  a  foreign  friendly  government,  I  do 
not  see  any  necessity  at  the  present  time  of  notifying  either  the  United  States 
State  Department  or  ]VIilitary  or  Naval  Intelligence  in  view  of  the  fact  that  the 
negotiations  are  confidential  from  a  commercial  standpoint. 

A  transaction  of  that  sort  might  be  partly  commercial  and  partly 
military  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  This  was  considered,  at  the  time  at  least  that  this 
letter  was  written,  as  a  strictly  commercial  proposition. 

Senator  Clark.  And  you  did  not  feel  it  was  necessary  under  such 
circumstances  of  transport  of  an  essential  munition  to  consult  either 
the  Navy  or  War  Departments  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  It  was  not  looked  on  as  an  essential  munition,  nor  is  it 
looked  on  as  that  today. 

Senator  Clark.  Ammonia? 

Mr.  Casey.  No.  It  is  pretty  far-fetched.  You  have  to  go  through 
a  number  of  processes,  but  let  some  chemist  talk  about  that. 


2678  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Senator  Clark.  I  am  not  a  chemist.  I  am  not  going  to  undertake 
to  examine  you  on  chemistry. 

I  always  understood  that  ammonia  in  time  of  war  was  a  very 
important  ingredient  of  several  munitions. 

Mr.  Casey.  You  realize,  Senator,  that  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  we 
bent  over  backward  in  keeping  Military  and  Naval  Intelligence  in- 
formed on  everything,  here  was  a  case  where  we  felt  that  at  that 
time  it  was  unadvised.  Later  on  we  told  them  all  about  it,  when  the 
transaction  took  place.  It  did  take  place,  did  it  not?  Or  was  that 
hydrogen  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know  what  it  is  they  are  talking 
about.    It  is  after  my  time. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  is  not  clear  from  this  letter. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  am  not  sure  which  it  was. 

The  last  paragraph  of  that  sentence  explains  why  it  was  not  com- 
municated to  ONI  and  MID. 

Senator  Clark.  You  mean  the  last  paragraph  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Clark.  This  says: 

"While  I  am  firmly  convinced  that  any  information  given  to  Military  Intelli- 
gence or  Naval  Intelligence  would  be  regarded  and  held  as  confidential,  in  view 
of  the  delicacy  of  the  negotiations  at  the  present  time,  I  believe  that  no  mention 
should  be  made  until  the  other  party  of  this  negotiation  has  so  arranged  their 
affairs  as  to  render  the  dissemination  of  the  news  as  harmless. 

Mr.  Casey.  So  you  can  see  it  was  not  a  question  of  keeping  it  from 
them,  but  only  for  that  particular  moment. 

Senator  Clark.  That  would  be  fully  as  true  of  the  military  sale  of 
munitions  as  anything  else  would? 

Mr.  Casey.  If  it  was  military  we  would  have  gone  to  them  the  very 
first  minute  we  had  the  first  nibble. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  is  military  to  the  extent  they  refer  to  your 
department,  is  it  not.  Major?    Yours  is  the  military  sales? 

Mr.  Casey.  No  ;  it  was  not  referred  to  our  department.  We  learned 
of  it,  and  there  you  are. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  This  is  a  memorandum  from  "  Military  Sales." 

Mr.  Casey.  Oh,  yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  To  the  legal  department. 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is  for  their  information. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  fact  that  it  came  to  you,  the  only  point 
I  am  making  is  that  even  at  this  date  it  was  recognized  as  having 
some  military  significance. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  think  so.  If  anybody  was  ^oing  to  contact 
the  Government,  we  would  be  the  ones.  It  is  a  possibility,  however, 
that  somebody  might  have  asked  us  what  would  be  the  attitude 

Senator  Clark.  Is  Colonel  Simons  in  your  department? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Clark.  That  memorandum  is  signed  by  Colonel  Simons? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Clark.  Would  that  not  indicate  that  it  was  a  matter 
having  to  do  with  military  affairs? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  know  what  originally  brought  this  letter  up. 
It  may  have  been  that  Tom  Hanley  requested  of  Simons,  "  What  do 
they  think  about  this  in  Washington? 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2679 

SUBMERGENCE  OF  GOVERNMENT  POWDER  UNDER  WATER   AT  OLD   HICKORY 

Senator  C!lakk.  Major,  do  you  know  how  much  powder  was  left 
over  in  the  hands  of  the  Government  at  the  end  of  the  war? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  have  a  rough  idea. 

Senator  Clark.  It  was  at  least  15,000,000  pounds  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Oh,  no ;  more  than  that. 

Senator  Clark.  I  say,  it  was  at  least  15,000,000? 

Mr.  Casey.  At  least;  that  is  enough  for  the  purpose,  I  guess. 

Senator  Clark.  I  call  your  attention  to  a  letter  from  Colonel 
Simons  to  Mr.  W.  H.  O'Gorman  at  16  Place  Vendome,  Paris,  the 
second  paragraph  from  the  bottom : 

Major  Casey  was  in  Washington  yesterday  and  was  told  that  an  inspector 
general  has  been  appointed  to  look  into  the  matter  of  putting  the  powder 
under  water  at  Old  Hickoi-y.  This  oflScer,  Col.  Louis  J.  Van  Schaick.  of  the 
Inspector  General's  Department,  was  put  on  the  job  by  General  Summerall 
and  not  by  the  Secretary  of  War  as  we  had  previously  understood. 

Col.  Van  Schaick  is  an  Infantry  officer  who  knows  little  or  nothing  about 
powder,  and  is  looking  into  the  question  as  to  whether  the  Ordnance  Depart- 
ment was  not  culpable  in  putting  the  powder  under  water.  He  has  also  asked 
several  officers  if  they  own  du  Ponl  stock,  etc.,  so  that  the  investigation 
appears  to  take  the  nature  of  persecution  rather  than  inquiry. 

(The  letter  referred  to  wa.^  marked  "'  Exhibit  No.  1008  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2828.) 

Senator  Clark.  What  is  that  Old  Hickorv  business,  Major?  That 
has  come  ud  here :  several  of  these  letter's  refer  to  that. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  will  tell  you  liriefly  what  that  indicates:  It  had 
been  learned  that  France  had  put  a  terrific  qviantity  of  ]:)owder  left 
over  from  the  war  under  water.  They  put  it  in  the  glacial  lakes  in 
the  Pyrenees,  where  the  water  was  very  cold.  They  seemed  to  be 
convinced  in  France  that  that  was  a  splendid  way  to  keep  this  powder 
from  deterioration,  which  it  probably  would  undergo  through  natural 
storage  conditions.  It  might  then  be  available  for  an  emergency,  a 
powder  which  could  be  taken  out  of  water,  dried,  and  promptly 
used.  Remember  that  "  promptly  used."  So  the  United  States  Gov- 
ernment, I  presume,  naturally  looked  into  the  matter;  we  had 
reported  all  we  had  learned  about  the  French  experience,  which  was 
not  very  much.  They  felt,  "  Well,  here  we  have  a  quantity  of  pow- 
der. We  had  better  try  this  same  thing."  They  did  not  have  money 
to  transport  the  powder  to  the  northern  part  of  the  country. 

Senator  Clark.  The  War  Department,  was  it  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  The  War  Department.  They  did  not  have  the  money 
to  transport  the  powder  to  the  northern  part  of  the  country,  so  there- 
fore they  decided  they  would  try  this  proposition,  using  some  of  the 
old  tanks  at  Old  Hickory,  which,  of  course,  is  a  little  warmer  than 
the  Pyrenees. 

Senator  Clark.  Where  is  Old  Hickory? 

Mr.  Casey.  Near  Nashville. 

I  think  about  this  time  it  was  discovered  that  the  powder  was 
not  remaining  in  the  condition  it  was  hoped,  and  we  had  learned 
that  apparently  the  Secretary  of  War  decided  he  had  better  investi- 
gate this  proposition. 

Senator  Clark.  How  much  powder  did  you  put  under  water, 
Major,  do  you  know? 


2680  MUNITIONS    INDUSTKY 

Mr.  Casey.  That  I  do  not  know ;  at  least  15,000^000  pounds. 

Senator  Clark.  All  they  had  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Oh,  no. 

Senator  Clark.  You  mean  they  just  took  15.000,000? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  they  just  took  15,000,000.  There  may  have 
been  more  than  that  under  water,  but  it  was  about  that  quantity. 
That  is  near  enough  for  the  purpose.  So  it  was  at  the  time,  that 
this  memorandum  was  written  w^e  had  learned  that  instead  of  it 
being  the  Secretary  of  War  who  had  Colonel  Van  Schaick  on  the 
job  making  an  inspection,  as  I  understood  it,,  he  was  from  the  In- 
spector General's  Department.  It  was  in  reality  General  Summerall, 
Chief  of  Staff. 

Senator  Clark.  Had  the  War  Department  done  that  on  your 
advice,  Major? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  believe  so.  We  give  them  all  the  informa- 
tion w^e  get. 

Senator  Clark.  Why  would  they  be  investigating  you  in  connec- 
tion with  it,  then?  I  notice  in  a  letter  that  was  put  in  the  record 
here  a  day  or  two  ago — I  believe  you  had  written  the  letter — you 
referred  to  the  unpleasant  publicity  growing  out  of  the  Old  Hickory 
incident. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  know  what  that  particular  incident  referred 
to,  but  in  this  case  here,  because  we  had  given  them  certain  infor- 
mation we  had  learned,  Colonel  Van  Schaick,  I  guess,  as  an  inspector 
general,  felt  that  he  could  not  say  his  investigation  was  complete 
unless  he  came  after  us. 

Senator  Clark.  Do  you  consider  it  persecution  for  an  officer  from 
the  Inspector  General's  Department  conducting  an  investigation  of 
that  sort  to  inquire  whether  officers  own  du  Pont  stock? 

Mr.  Casey.  We  do  not  say  that. 

Senator  Clark.  Colonel  Simons  says  it. 

Mr.  Casey.  No  ;  but  the  point  is 

Senator  Clark.  He  says : 

Colonel  Van  Schaick  is  an  Infantry  officer,  who  knows  little  or  nothing  about 
powder  and  is  looking  into  the  question  as  to  whether  the  Ordnance  Depart- 
ment was  not  culpable  in  putting  the  powder  under  water.  He  has  also  asked 
several  officers  if  they  own  du  Pont  stock,  etc.,  so  that  the  investigation  appears 
to  take  the  nature  of  persecution  rather  than  an  inquiry. 

Those  questions  seem  to  me  to  be  entirely  proper  questions.  I  was 
trying  to  find  out  what  you  understood  was  in  Colonel  Simons' 
mind. 

Mr.  Casey.  It  looked  at  the  time  as  if  it  was  a  question  of  trying 
to  find  a  goat. 

Senator  Clark.  Do  you  consider  it  an  improper  question  for  an 
inspector  general  to  ask  whether  certain  officers  own  du  Pont  stock? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  think  it  was  at  all  improper.  In  fact,  I  think 
it  was  a  good  thing  he  did  ask  the  question. 

Senator  Clark.  You  do  not  agree  w^ith  Colonel  Simons,  then,  that 
it  was  persecution? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  agree  with  everything  Colonel  Simons  says. 

Senator  Clark.  I  understand.  I  am  trying  to  find  out  what  part 
of  Colonel  Simons'  remarks  you  do  agi'ee  with.  Since  we  cannot 
liave  Colonel  Simons  here,  I  want  to  find  out  tlie  impression  tliese 
connnunications  made  on  vou. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2681 

Mr.  Casey.  In  all  this  correspondence  j^ou  have  to  take  into  con- 
sideration the  peculiar  characteristics  of  the  man  writing  the  letter. 

Senator  Clark.  I  understand  that,  and  since  we  do  not  have 
Colonel  Simons  here,  I  am  trying  to  find  out  from  you,  knowing 
Colonel  Simons  very  well,  just  what  was  in  his  mind. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  am  trying  to  tell  you  tlie  best  I  can. 

Senator  Clark.  Do  you  know  whether  all  the  15,000,000  pounds 
that  they  put  under  water  deteriorated?  Were  you  informed  about 
that? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  it  got  to  the  point  it  was  not  longer  satisfactory 
as  powder,  was  not  that  it?    Is  not  that  right? 

Mr.  Bradway.  Some  of  it  was  and  some  of  it  Avas  not.  But  the 
larger  calibers  were  still  satisfactory. 

Senator  Clark.  Do  you  know  about  the  proportion  of  it? 

Mr.  Bradway.  No;  I  do  not  remember. 

Senator  Clark.  In  other  words,  you  do  not  remember  what  pro- 
portion of  the  15,000,000  was  spoiled  and  what  was  not? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Senator,  may  I  ask  a  question  ? 

Senator  Clark.  Yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Was  this  powder  that  had  been  manufactured 
at  the  Old  Hickory  plant? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  it  was. 

Mr.  Bradway.  No. 

Mr.  Casey.  No,  no;  shipped  from  other  places,  was  it  not? 

Mr.  Bradway.  After  the  war  the  Government  shipped  into  Old 
Hickory  a  great  deal  of  powder  from  various  parts  of  the  country 
where  it  had  been  manufactured,  and  this  happened  to  be  15,000,000 
pounds  of  that  quantity.  It  was  not  their  whole  reserve  stock  by  anj^ 
means. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Are  you  pretty  sure  about  that  15,000,000 
figure?  We  were  in  some  doubt  about  it  a  minute  ago.  Was  it 
about  15,000,000  that  was  put  under  water? 

Mr.  Bradway.  About  15,000,000  pounds. 

Mr.  Casey.  They  have  always  referred  to  a  certain  quantity 
of  powder,  including  15,000,000  under  water.     That  is  near  enough, 

Mr.  Bradway.  That  was  only  a  part  of  their  reserve  stock,  I 
understand. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  About  how  much  did  that  powder  cost  the 
Government,  how  much  a  pound?  Do  you  remember  the  Old 
Hickory  cost? 

Mr.  Bradway.  I  do  not  believe  that  this  was  powder  that  was 
manufactured  at  Old  Hickory,  but  I  suppose  45  or  46  cents. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  that  would  be  about  an  average. 

Mr.  Bradway.  The  cost  at  Old  Hickory?  That  was  not  the  cost 
at  Old  Hickory  as  I  recall  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  No;  I  do  not  want  testimony  on  that.  I  am 
trying  to  get  an  average  of  what  that  powder  cost  the  Government. 

Mr.  Bradway.  I  should  say  if  you  said  it  cost  them  45  cents  or 
46  cents 

Mr.  Casey.  On  the  average. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  On  the  average? 

Mr.  Bradway.  Somewhere  between  40  and  50  cents. 

83876— ;!o—px  12 4 


2682  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  is  about  $7,000,000  worth  of  powder;  is 
that  right? 

Mr.  Bradwat.  About  that;  when  it  was  new. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  When  it  was  new.  And  they  put  that 
$7,000,000  under  water,  and  it  deteriorated  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Remember,  it  is  11  years  old  at  this  time, 
and  the  life  of  powder  is  supposed  to  be  not  over  what?    About  15? 

Mr.  Bradway.  About  16  years  old. 

Senator  Clark.  What  did  they  do  with  that? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  they  have  disposed  of  about  half  of  it.  They 
did  find  some  people  who  were  able  to  use  it  for  solvent  solutions, 
lacquers,  coating  of  textiles,  and  tilings  of  that  sort. 

Mr.  Bradway.  Understand  that  this  putting  that  powder  under 
water  was  not  the  cause  for  its  apparently  having  decomposed  or 
started  decomposition.  Powder  manufactured  during  the  war  stored 
ordinarily  also  decomposes.  They  endeavored  to  safeguard  that  by 
putting  it  under  water.  It  is  a  question  of  opinion  whether  at  the 
time  when  they  brought  it  up  to  the  du  Pont  Co. — we  did  not  know 
a  whole  lot  about  it,  and  we  gave  it  as  our  opinion,  as  I  recall,  that  if 
powder  were  placed  under  water,  any  traces  of  decomposition  would 
probably  stop;  but  that  we  did  not  consider  it  a  very  good  idea, 
because  after  a  long  period  of  time,  depending  on  the  condition  of 
the  storage — that  is,  the  temperature  of  the  water  and  the  changing 
of  the  water,  and  so  forth — we  did  not  consider  over  a  long  period 
of  time  it  was  a  good  practice,  because  the  powder  when  it  was  taken 
out  would  have  to  be  used  right  away.  It  was  really  for  an 
emergency. 

Senator  Clark.  Do  you  know  anything  about  the  result  of  the 
French  experiment? 

Mr.  Casey.  It  is  still  there. 

Senator  Clark.  Still  in  the  water? 

Mr.  Bradway.  Oh,  yes;  it  is  still  in  the  water. 

Mr.  Casey.  But  they  have  different  water. 

I  was  just  advised  it  is  a  standard  practice.  The  Western  Cart- 
ridge Co.  have  a  considerable  quantity  of  powder  stored  under 
water;  I  think  at  Newburgh  they  have  a  large  quantity. 

Mr.  Bradway.  We  have  stored  powder  under  water  that  we  were 
going  to  use  for  other  purposes,  but  we  have  stored  powder  under 
water.  We  use  it  for  lacquers  and  solutions  and  other  things,  a 
certain  percentage. 

Senator  Clark.  Not  for  munitions  after  you  get  it  out  of  the 
water,  unless  you  use  it  immediately;  is  that  the  theory? 

Mr.  Bradway.  That  is  what  we  suppose.  There  is  no  experience 
on  that  yet. 

Senator  Clark.  In  other  words,  you  do  not  know  till  somebody 
tries  to  use  that  powder  that  has  been  under  water  ? 

Mr,  Casey.  The  French  had  the  first  experience  on  a  large  scale. 

Senator,  in  connection  with  that,  when  General  Hof  first  suc- 
ceeded General  Williams  as  chief  of  ordnance  and  he  came  across 
this  FNH  powder  proposition,  which  was  new  to  him,  he  said  to  me 
one  day,  "  Casej'',  joii  have  just  upset  our  entire  schedule.  Here  for 
years  we  have  been  predicating  our  question  of  reserve  ammunition 
on  powder  with  an  expected  life  on  the  average  of  about  15  years. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2683 

Now,  you  have  given  us  a  powder  that  may  last  over  100  years. 
What  are  we  going  to  do  about  it?" 

That  is  what  the  new  powder  probably  represents. 

Senator  Clark.  What  did  he  do  about  it? 

Mr.  Casey.  The  idea  that  powder  would  last  so  long  was  just 
inconceivable  to  him,  but  that  is  what  the  new  powder  means.  We 
do  not  say  100  years. 

Mr.  Bradway.  No  ;  you  have  no  right  to  say  it  will  last  100  years. 

Mr.  Casey.  But  that  is  the  way  we  approached  the  problem. 

Senator  Clark.  You  cannot  say  that  until  you  get  to  be  140  vears 
old. 

Mr,  Casey.  I  can  tell  you  some  day  about  it. 

RELATIONS  OP  DU  PONT  CO.  WITH  THE  STATE  DEPARTMENT 

Senator  Clark.  I  hope  we  will  both  be  here  at  that  time. 

Coming  back  to  the  question  of  the  possibility  of  arming  possible 
enemies,  I  will  call  your  attention  to  a  letter  dated  August  22,  1928, 
addressed  to  Col.  W.  N.  Taylor,  16  Place  Vendome,  Paris,  France. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  as  "  Exhibit  No.  1009  ",  and 
appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Clark  (reading)  : 

Replying  to  your  letter  T-1351  of  August  9  in  wliicli  you  inquire  if  we  can 
sell  powder  and  explosives  to  H.I.H.  in  Holland 

Who  is  H.I.H.,  one  of  those  Dutch  names? 

Mr.  Casey.  One  of  those  Dutch  names.    That  is  enough. 

Senator  Clark  (reading)  : 

which  will  be  loaded  in  ammunition  eventually  destined  for  Russia. 

Discreet  inquiries  with  the  War  Department  in  Washington  indicate  that 
they  believe  there  is  no  legal  or  ethical  bar  to  our  negotiating  this  business. 

On  a  previous  occasion  we  were  permitted  to  see  a  staff  memorandum  which 
stated  in  part  as  follows : 

"  There  are  no  restrictions  imposed  by  the  United  States  Government  on 
trade  with  Russia  or  with  the  Soviet  regime.  Individuals  and  corporations 
carrying  on  such  trade,  however,  do  so  upon  their  own  responsibility. 

"  The  State  Department,  however,  views  with  disfavor  trade  with  Soviet 
Russia  in  arms  and  munitions  of  war  and  has  so  informed  several  American 
firms  who  have  asked  their  advice  concerning  such  trade." 

In  view  of  the  above  you  are  at  full  liberty  to  conduct  such  negotiations  as 
may,  in  your  judgment  seem  advisable,  bearing  in  mind  that  it  is  not  expedi- 
ent that  the  State  Department  be  consulted  in  any  way  directly  or  indirectly. 
Very  truly  yours, 

W.  H.  O'GoEMAN,  Assistant  Director. 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is  another  letter  written  to  our  own  man. 

Senator  Clark.  Yes,  but  it  certainly  indicates  a  very  outspoken 
desire  to  keep  the  State  Department  from  finding  out  anything  about 
it,  doesn't  it? 

Mr.  Casey.  The  last  paragraph  would  indicate  that.  Of  course 
at  that  time,  1928,  the  memorandum  that  Simmons  referred  to  in 
this  letter  which  you  are  quoting  was  a  memorandum  which  I  under- 
stand was  written  several  years  before  that,  when  tlie  attitude  of  the 
State  Department  was  different. 

Senator  Clark.  Yes,  I  understand,  but,  Major 

Mr.  Casey.  Their  attitude  changed  in  1925,  which  was  brought 
out  the  other  dav. 


2684  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Senator  Clark.  In  1928  we  had  not  recognized  Russia  and  there 
was  very  strong  sentiment  in  this  country  against  doing  so. 
Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 
Senator  Clark.  And  this  refers  to  that  memorandum  and  states: 

•'  The  State  Dopurtment,  however,  views  with  disfavor  trade  with  Soviet 
Russia  in  arms  jind  nnmitions  of  war  and  has  .so  informed  several  American 
firms  wlio  liave  aslied  tlieir  advice  concerning  such  trade." 

In  view  of  the  above  .vou  are  at  full  liberty  to  conduct  such  negotiations  as 
may,  in  your  judgment,  seem  advisable,  bearing  in  mind  that  it  is  not  expedi- 
ent that  the  State  Department  be  consulted  in  any  way,  directly  or  indirectly. 

Mr.  Casey.  The  net  result  was  that  nothing  came  of  it,  and  I  do 
not  believe 

Senator  Clark.  I  understand,  but  wdiat  I  am  interested  in  is  the 
fact  that  you  were  willing  and  anxious  to  make  this  deal  without 
any  information  to  the  State  Department. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Senator,  it  does  not  say  that. 

Senator  Clark.  Although  you  had  been  informed  that  the  State 
Department  had  viewed  such  trade  with  disfavor. 

Mr.  Casey.  So  the  memorandum  says. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Senator,  you  stated  that  incorrectly.  It 
does  not  say  that  we  were  ready  to  make  that  deal.  Colonel  Taylor 
was  authorized  to  negotiate. 

Senator  Clark.  You  are  not  paying  a  man  to  stay  in  Europe  and 
negotiate  just  to  have  him  have  the  fun  of  negotiating  for  j'ou? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  No,  sir ;  but  when  he  is  in  the  process  of 
negotiating  w^e  may  call  it  off  at  any  time. 

Senator  Clark  (reading)  : 

In  view  of  the  above  you  are  at  full  liberty  to  conduct  such  negotiations  as 
may,  in  yonr  judgment,  seem  advisable,  beariuj^  in  mind  that  it  is  not  expe- 
dient that  the  State  Department  be  consulted  in  any  way,  directly  or  indirectly. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Now,  as  Major  Casey  says,  Colonel  Taylor 
understood  perfectly  well  that  we  would  not  close  that  deal  without 
the  State  Department's  knowledge. 

Senator  Clark.  It  certainly  does  not  appear  in  the  letter. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  does  not  appear  there,  but  Major  Casey 
explained  that  Colonel  Taylor  knows  that  is  the  policy. 

Mr.  Casey.  He  is  our  man. 

The  Chairsian.  Are  we  to  understand  that  in  all  matters  of  that 
kind,  where  negotiations  were  called  for,  j^ou  would  not  finally  enter 
into  any  contract  or  any  arrangement  or  agreement,  without  the 
consent  of  the  State  Department? 

Mr.  Lamjiot  du  Pont.  I  won't  say  the  consent.  Not  without  their 
knowledge.  As  Major  Casey  has  said  before,  they  do  not  give  their 
consent. 

Mr.  Casey.  Unless  there  is  an  embargo.  Then  they  may  give 
consent  or  they  may  not.  But  unless  there  is  an  embargo,  as  I  stated 
before,  they  say  we  really  embarrass  them  by  asking  them  the 
question. 

Senator  Clark.  You  were  on  occasion  willing  to  go  ahead  with 
these  deals,  irrespective  of  the  attitude  of  the  State  Department? 

Mr.  Casey.  We  may  start  the  negotiations. 

Senator  Clark.  I  mean,  go  ahead  with  it  irrespective  of  their 
attitude. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  No,  sir ;  not  on  military  matters. 


\ 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2685 

Senator  Clark.  I  call  your  attention  then  to  an  exhibit  that  we 
had  here  a  minute  ago,  a  letter  dated  March  15,  1926,  addressed  to 
Aiken  Simons,  which  I  will  ask  to  have  marked  the  appropriate 
exhibit  number. 

(The  letter  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1010  ",  and  appears  in  full 
in  the  text.) 

Senator  Clark.  This  letter  is  numbered  26  and  if  you  have  not  got 
a  copy  I  will  be  glad  to  read  it  to  you. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Senator  Clark.  This  says: 

Major  Strong,  of  War  Plans,  came  to  me  the  other  day  and  asked  me  if  I  had 
any  information  of  the  Poles  nefiotiatin^  with  American  firms  for  the  erection 
of  chemical-warfare  munitions  plants  in  Poland.  I  had  no  such  information. 
Further  information  indicates  tliat  the  du  Pont  Co.  was  one  of  the  American 
firms  approached.  I  suppose,  of  course,  you  gave  this  information  to  the 
Chemical  Warfare  Service. 

Had  you  given  the  information  to  the  Chemical  Warfare  Service? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  so. 

Senator  Clark  (continuing  reading)  : 

It  would  put  us  in  a  very  strong  position  when  the  Geneva  protocol  comes 
up  in  Con,L';ress  if  we  could  definitely  prove  that  the  Poles  are  negotiating  with 
our  people  for  the  erection  of  these  plants. 

Do  you  know  why  it  would  put  the  General  Staff  in  a  very  strong 
position  with  Congress? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  have  not  the  .slightest  idea. 
Senator  Clark  (reading) : 

I  would  like  to  take  this  matter  up  with  the  Commerce  Department  and 
have  them  use  their  machinery  to  locate  any  American  plnnt  which  might  be 
considering  the  erection  of  chemical  plants  in  Poland,  but  in  view  of  the 
fact  that  your  information  is  usually  given  confidentially,  I  do  not  feel  free  to 
inform  the  Commerce  Department  (Mr.  Concannon)  of  the  source  of  our 
information.  On  your  next  trip  to  Washington  I  would  like  very  much  to  .go 
over  with  you  and  see  Mr.  Concannon,  and  for  you  to  tell  him  the  wh(  le  story. 
He  would  then  go  ahead  and  use  all  the  machinery  of  the  Commerce  Depart- 
ment to  locate  the  American  firms  who  may  be  interested  in  this  proposition. 

I  presume  you  will  be  down  this  week,  and,  in  case  I  am  not  here,  Colonel 
Stone  is  thoroughly  infonned  on  this  whole  affair,  and  I  will  ask  you  to  take 
it  up  with  him. 

Sincerely  yours, 

Lhigh, 

l.  f.'  j.  ze31bee, 
Major,  General  Staff. 

Then,  on  March  27,  1926,  in  the  same  connection,  I  have  here  a 
letter  signed  by  Dwight  F.  Davis,  Secretary  of  War,  addressed  to 
your  smokeless-powder  department,  which  I  will  ask  to  have  marked 
appropriately. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1011  "  and  ap- 
pears in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Clark.  This  reads: 

Receipt  is  acknowledged  of  your  confidential  letter  of  March  16  pertaining  to 
the  proposed  establishment  of  a  chemical  warfare  plant  in  Poland.  I  note 
that  you  do  not  believe  that  the  du  Pont  Co.  sliould  undertake  work  of  this 
sort  for  a  foreign  government  without  llie  written  assent  of  the  War  Depart- 
ment. Since  this  is  a  matter  which  the  Department  of  State  must  determine, 
I  have  submitted  an  extract  of  your  letter  to  that  Department  (copy  attached). 
and  no  doubt  you  will  hear  from  that  Department  in  a  reasonable  time. 

I  appreciate  your  brhiging  this  matter  to  my  attention. 
Sincerely  yours. 

Dwight  F.  Davis,  Secretary  of  War. 


2686  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Then  a  copy  of  his  letter  of  the  same  date  to  the  Secretary  of 
State,  which  I  will  ask  to  have  marked  appropriately. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1012 "  and 
appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Clark.  This  reads: 

The  Honorable  The  Secrktaky  of  State. 

Dear  Mr.  Secretary:  The  following  extract  is  taken  from  a  letter  dated 
March  16,  1926,  from  the  E.  I.  du  Pout  de  Nemours  &  Co.,  smokeless  powder 
department,  military  sales  division,  Wilmington,  Del.,  addressed  to  the  Secre- 
tary of  War : 

"  For  your  confidential  information,  we  wish  to  advise  that  we  are  in  receipt 
of  communication  from  the  Polish  War  Department  in  which  it  is  requested 
that  we  submit  a  proposal  on  the  establishment  of  a  chemical  Avarfare  gas 
plant  in  Poland.  We  are  attaching  an  extract  from  letter  dated  January  9, 
signed  by  the  Chief  of  Army  Administration,  Republic  of  Poland. 

"  We  believe  the  du  Pont  Co.  should  not  undertake  work  of  this  sort  for  a 
foreign  government  except  on  the  written  assent  of  the  Secretary  of  War, 
stating  that  the  project  has  the  approval  of  the  War  Department,     *     *     *." 

The  extract  from  the  letter  of  January  9  from  Poland  furnished  by  the 
du  Pont  Co.  is  appended. 

Since  this  is  believed  to  be  a  State  Department  matter  it  is  submitted  to  you, 
and  the  du  Pont  Co.  has  been  so  advised. 

I  will  appreciate  very  much  any  infonnation  you  may  be  able  to  furnish 
me  as  to  the  action  of  the  State  Department  in  this  matter. 
Sincerely  yours, 

DwiGHT  F.  Davis,  Secretary  of  War. 

So  that  we  have  the  matter  broiiglit  to  the  attention  of  the  Secre- 
tary of  War  in  a  confidential  letter  from  the  du  Pont  Co.  and  the 
du  Pont  Co.  advised  by  the  Secretary  of  War  that  the  matter  was 
outside  his  control  and  properly  within  the  control  of  the  State 
Department. 

If  yon  gentlemen  have  not  been  furnished  copies  of  these  letters 
we  will  see  that  you  get  them. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Thank  you. 

Senator  Cl.vrk.  We  now  come  down  to  a  letter  dated  April  12, 
192G,  addressed  to  Col,  W.  N.  Taylor  at  Paris,  and  signed  by  Major 
Casey,  which  I  will  also  ask  to  have  marked  with  the  appropriate 
exhibit  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1013  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2828.) 

Senator  Clark.  This  letter  addressed  to  Colonel  Taylor  reads : 

Attached  please  find  confirmation  of  our  cable  no.  330.  You  will  note  that 
we  have  decided  to  let  Major  de  Lanoy  quote  direct  to  Poland  through  Mr. 
Klawe  on  the  chemical  warfare  project. 

Who  was  Major  de  Lanoy? 

Mr.  Casey.  Major  de  Lanoy  was  a  private  in  the  same  regiment  I 
was  in  1898.  He  went  out  with  the  Seventy-first  Regiment  during 
the  war.  He  was  detached  from  that  and  later  went  with  the 
Chemical  Warfare  and  I  believe  was  stationed  likewise  at  Edgewood 
Arsenal  when  that  was  established.  He  then  resigned,  and  was  the 
first  man  to  start  making  these  tear-gas  grenades  for  police  depart- 
ments. He  was  not  very  successful  with  them,  however,  but  at  any 
rate  he  started,  and  when  this  inquiry  for  a  chemical-warfare  propo- 
sition came  from  Poland  it  was  not  a  thing  that  du  Pont  either 
wanted  or  was  prepared  to  handle,  so  we  simply  turned  the  matter 
over  to  de  Lanoy  for  such  action  as  he  saw  fit,  stating  that  we  would 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2687 

advise  he  get  in  touch  with  our  agent  Klawe  in  Warsaw  as  the  man 
who  might  be  able  to  assist  him.     But  it  is  a  matter  that  we  had 
nothing  further  to  do  with. 
Senator  Clark  (reading  on)  : 

It  is  quite  essential  for  you  to  kuow  the  company's  attitude  toward  this 
project,  and  we  will  therefore  give  you  the  details  as  follows : 

When  the  inquiry  was  first  received  from  the  Polish  War  Department  we  con- 
sulted Major  de  Lanoy  and  asked  him  to  prepare  a  detailed  proposal  for  sub- 
mission to  Poland,  either  directly  by  him  or  by  the  du  Pont  Co.,  in  which  latter 
case  deLanoy  was  to  act  as  our  technical  adviser.  We  also  referred  the  matter 
to  our  dyestufCs  department  and  asked  them  to  prepare  a  proposal.  Our  dye- 
stuffs  department  decided  that  we  were  not  in  possession  of  complete  technical 
details  which  would  enable  us  to  handle  the  Polish  warfare  project,  and  that 
unless  we  could  secure  the  complete  cooperation  of  the  United  States  Ordnance 
Department,  particularly  the  Chemical  Warfare  Section,  it  would  be  useless  for 
us  to  undertake  the  construction  of  the  chemical  warfare  plant. 

That  was  because  you  did  not  have  sufficient  technical  knowledge 
to  proceed  without  the  information  that  the  War  Department  had? 
Mr.  Casey.  That  was  one  reason. 

Senator  Clark.  I  mean  that  is  the  reason  assigned  there. 
Mr.  Casey.  Yes;  so  far. 
Senator  Clark  (continuing)  : 

To  obtain  the  cooperation  of  the  War  Department  we  addressed  the  Secretary 
of  War,  who  in  turn  submitted  our  question  to  the  State  Department.  After 
many  weeks  we  received  a  reply  from  the  State  Department  which  was  quite 
evasive  and  left  us  in  the  same  position  that  we  were  when  the  Polish  inquiry 
was  received.  We  decided  that  we  could  not  get  a  firm  assurance  of  coopera- 
tion from  the  War  Department  because  of  the  position  taken  by  the  State 
Department  and  thought  it  best  to  let  Major  de  Lanoy  proceed  and  submit  his 
proposal. 

In  other  words,  it  is  not  only  a  question  of  submission  but  of  coop- 
eration from  the  War  Department  and  their  technical  staff? 
Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 
Senator  Clark  (reading  on)  : 

We  have  addressed  the  Polish  War  Department  on  this  subject,  with  copy 
of  letter  to  you,  also  copy  to  Mr.  Klawe. 

Major  de  Lanoy  is  willing  to  let  Mr.  Klawe  act  as  his  agent  in  this  matter 
and  has  included  in  his  price  a  commission  of  5  percent  for  Mr.  Klawe.  Major 
de  Lanoy  will  send  his  proposal  to  Mr.  Klawe,  who  inturn  will  present  it  to  the 
Polish  War  Department  in  de  Lanoy's  name.  Major  de  Lanoy  will  write  Mr. 
Klawe  in  detail  and  we  will  keep  you  posted  on  developments  from  this  end. 
If  de  Lanoy  is  awarded  a  contract,  we  will  receive  no  connnission. 

You  would  have  supplied  him  with  some  materials,  wouldn't  you, 
Major? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  don't  think  so.  We  might  have  supplied  him  with 
some  minor  things. 

Senator  Clark.  This  goes  on: 

The  matter  will  be  handled  entirely  by  de  Lanoy  and  Klawe.  We  cannot 
afford  to  arouse  the  criticism  of  the  State  Department,  because  you  are  familiar 
with  the  position  they  take  on  chemical-warfare  gases.  If  we  were  in  possession 
of  complete  technical  details  which  would  enable  us  to  construct  and  operate 
the  proposed  chemical  warfare  plant,  we  would  undertake  the  project  regardless 
of  the  attitude  taken  by  the  State  Department. 

Major,  that  seems  at  variance  with  your  statements  that  you  would 
not  proceed  without  the  permission  of  the  State  Department. 
Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 


2688  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Irenee  uu  Pont.  Without  their  Ivtiowledge,  not  permission. 

Senator  Clark.  I  asked  him  if  he  would  proceed  against  the 
objections  of  the  State  Department,  and  he  said,  "  No." 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  But  the  State  Department  did  not  object. 

Senator  Clark.  I  understand,  Mr.  du  Pont,  but  here  he  says  that 
the  reason  shown  previously  in  this  memorandum  for  not  proceeding 
with  the  negotiation  was  that  you  were  not  in  possession  of  suffi- 
cient technical  information  to  do  it,  without  that  deficiency  being 
helped  out  by  technical  information  from  the  technical  staff  of  the 
War  Department,  and  then  he  goes  on : 

If  we  were  in  possession  of  complete  technical  details  which  would  enable 
us  to  construct  and  operate  the  proposed  chemical  warfare  plant,  we  would 
undertake  the  project  regardless  of  the  attitude  taken  by  the  State  Department. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Well,  their  attitude  was  noncommittal. 

Senator  Clark.  I  understand. 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator,  there  is  another  angle  to  this.  Poland  by 
this  time  had  begun  to  rel}^  on  us.  We  did  not  want  to  make  them 
feel  that  we  were  unwilling  to  undertake  the  job  that  they  thought 
we  could  do.  Further  than  that,  with  the  evasive  reply  from  the 
State  Department,  we  did  not  w^ant  to  go  back  to  them  and  embarrass 
the  State  Department  by  saying  that  the  State  Department  objects, 
because  the  Polish  Embassy  would  pretty  certainly  get  after  the 
State  Department.  That  was  what  was  meant  by  the  previous 
statement  of  mine. 

Senator  Clark.  But  what  you  said  was  that  if  you  were  able  to 
do  it  from  the  standpoint  of  technical  preparation,  you  would  go 
ahead  regardless  of  the  State  Department. 

Mr.  Casey.  All  right.  That  w^ould  enable  the  Dej)artment  to  take 
our  letter  and  show  it  to  the  Poles. 

Senator  Clark.  That  is  some  more  sales  talk,  is  it? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes;  sales  talk. 

Senator  Clark.  Major  de  Lanoy  seemed  to  learn  some  technical 
trade  expressions  from  this  investigation,  if  nothing  else. 

Major  de  Lanoy  seems  to  be  in  this  position,  and  we  are  sure  no  criticism 
will  be  directed  against  him  for  technical  services  which  he  may  render  to 
the  Polish  Government. 

We  regret  the  delay,  etc. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  believe  that  instead  of  the  job  being  done  in  a  short 
time  it  took  about  twice  as  long  as  expected. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  was  done  by  Major  de  Lanoy,  was  it  not? 

Mr.  Casey.  We  had  nothing  whatever  to  do  with  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Didn't  you  sell  him  some  material? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  don't  think  we  sold  him  any  material.  We  did 
assist  him  in  getting  some  equipment  from  other  manufacturers, 
because  he  had  nobody  in  this  country  to  represent  hiuL  I  did  that 
purely  out  of  my  own  friendship  with  de  Lanoy. 

Senator  Clark.  There  is  one  iettei-  here  which  I  should  have  put 
in  previous  to  the  one  that  I  just  read,  which  I  will  ask  to  have 
marked  with  the  next  exhibit  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  ''  Exhibit  No.  1014  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2829.) 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2689 

Senator  Clark.  This  is  dated  April  5,  1926;  and  to  make  the 
record  complete,  I  will  read  that  also.  It  is  a  lettei-  from  Major 
Casey  to  Col.  W^  N,  Taylor  in  Paris. 

We  acknowledge  receipt  of  your  cable  no.  412  and  confirm  our  reply  no.  .329. 

Chemical  Warfare  Plant — Poland. 

As  soon  as  we  received  the  letter  from  the  Polish  War  Department  requesting 
us  to  submit  a  proposal  on  the  installation  of  a  chemical-warfare  factory  in 
Poland,  we  conferred  with  Major  de  Lanoy  and  turned  the  matter  over  to 
him.  He  in  turn  has  worked  up  a  detailed  proposal  which  has  been  in  our 
hands  for  several  weeks.  The  project  was  fully  disciissed  with  our  dyestuffs 
department  and  it  was  decided,  from  a  policy  standpoint,  that  the  du  Pont 
Co.  would  not  bid  on  the  project  unless  we  received  a  complete  authoriza- 
tion from  the  War  Department.  We  accordingly  addressed  the  War  Department 
and  asked  them  to  state  their  position  in  connection  with  the  inquiry.  The 
War  Department  in  turn  submitted  the  matter  to  the  State  Department  and 
no  decision  has  been  received  from  the  State  Department  as  yet.  In  the 
event  that  the  State  Department  takes  the  attitude  that  we  should  not  bid.  we 
will  turn  the  matter  over  to  Major  de  Lanoy.  who  will  immediately  submit  a 
proposal.  He  will  forward  the  proposal  to  Mr.  Klawe  and  Klawe  can  act 
in  his  behalf. 

We  have  had  several  cablegrams  from  Mr.  Klawe  on  this  subject  and  replied 
to  him,  stating  that  the  proposal  would  go  forward  about  March  15th.  This 
occurred,  liowever,  befoi'e  the  policy  of  the  du  Pont  Co.  had  been  detei'- 
mined.  The  submission  of  the  project  to  the  War  Department  has  greatly 
delayed  forwarding  the  proposal  in  question.  It  is  hoped,  however,  that  a 
decision  will  be  reached  before  the  end  of  this  week,  in  which  event  a  proposal 
will  go  forward  either  from  du  Pont  or  from  de  Lanoy. 

I  just  read  that  for  the  purpose  of  completing  the  record. 
Mr.  Casey.  That  practically  confirms  what  I  stated. 
The  Chairman.  Is  this  a  convenient  place  to  stop,  Senator? 
Senator  Clark.  Yes;  this  is  a  convenient  place  to  quit. 
The  Chairman.  Let  the  committee  be  in  recess  then  until  2  o'clock. 
(Whereupon,  at  12.  48  p.  m.  the  committee  recessed  to  2  p.  m.  of 
the  same  day.) 

afternoon  session 

The  hearing  was  resumed  at  2  p.  m.,  pursuant  to  the  taking  of 
the  recess. 

The  Chairman.  The  committee  will  be  in  order. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Mr.  Chairman,  may  I  interject  something? 

At  the  close  of  the  session  a  letter  was  put  in  evidence  from  the 
Secretary  of  War  stating  that  he  was  referring  to  the  State  De- 
partment this  complaint  of  the  construction  of  a  chemical  war- 
fare gas  plant  in  Poland,  and  that  no  doubt  we  should  hear  from  the 
State  Department  in  due  course.  I  thought  at  the  time  that  the  reply 
of  the  State  Department,  the  letter  from  the  State  Department  to  us, 
had  been  put  in  evidence,  but  I  find  that  that  is  not  so. 

I  would  like  to  read  that  letter  into  the  record.  Your  secretary 
has  a  copy  of  it. 

The  Chairman.  Very  well. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  And  enter  it  into  the  record. 

The  Chairman.  You  may  read  it. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  is  not  a  very  long  letter,  a  page  and  a 
half.  This  is  from  the  Department  of  State,  dated  April  8,  1926, 
addressed  to  the  du  Pont  Co.     [Reading  "  Exhibit  No.  1015  " :] 

The  Department  has  received,  under  date  of  March  27,  an  extract  from  your 
letter  to  the  Secretary  of  War  of  March  16  with  reference  to  the  request 
which  you  have  received  from  the  Polish  War  Department  for  the  establishment 


2690  MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY 

of  a  chemical  warfare  gas  plant  in  Poland.  In  this  letter  you  state  that  in  your 
opinion  this  worli  should  not  be  undertaken  without  the  consent  of  the  War 
Department. 

In  referring  your  inquiry  to  this  Department  the  Secretary  of  War  stated 
that  he  believed  this  to  be  a  matter  for  the  Department  of  State  and  indicated 
that  you  had  been  so  advised. 

It  is  not  the  practice  of  this  Department  to  undertake  to  intervene  in  private 
business  transactions  of  the  character  covered  by  your  letter  or  to  give  or  to 
withhold  assent.  It  is  possible  that  in  referring  the  matter  to  the  War 
Department  you  had  in  mind  that  American  representatives  have  signed  agree- 
ments with  respect  to  the  prohibition  of  the  use  in  time  of  war  of  poisonous 
gases ;  provisions  of  this  character  being  included  in  a  treaty  signed  at  Washing- 
ton on  February  6,  1922,  and  in  a  protocol  signed  at  Geneva  June  17,  1925. 
While  it  would  appear  that  these  instruments  would  have  only  an  indirect 
bearing  upon  the  proposal  which  has  been  submitted  to  you,  even  if  such 
treaties  had  been  ratified,  the  treaty  and  protocol  in  question  are  not  now  in 
effect  since  ratifications  have  not  been  deposited. 

In  conclusion  it  may  be  stated  that  it  has  been  the  policy  of  this  Govern- 
ment to  favor  international  agreements  for  the  prohibition  of  the  use  of  poison- 
ous or  noxious  gases  in  time  of  war. 

I  am,  sirs,  your  obedient  servant, 

(Signed)     Frank  B.  Kellogg. 

The  Chairman.  What  is  the  date,  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  This  is  dated  April  8,  1926,  and  refers  to 
the  letter  of  March  27,  from  the  War  Department  to  the  State 
Department. 

The  Chairman.  Do  yon  consider  the  letter  rather  evasive? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Who,  me? 

The  Chairman.  Yes. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes;  I  do.     [Heading:] 

It  is  not  the  practice  of  this  Department  to  undertake  to  intervene  in  private 
business  transactions  of  the  character  covered  by  your  letter  or  to  give  or  to 
withhold  assent. 

That,  in  the  vernacular,  means,  to  me,  "  ducking  the  question." 
Senator  Clark.  And  it  was  on  the  basis  of  your  considering  it 
evasive  that  Major  Casey  4  days  later  wrote  Colonel  Taylor  and  said : 

If  we  were  in  possession  of  complete  technical  details  which  would  enable  us 
to  construct  and  operate  the  proposed  chemical  warfare  plant,  we  would 
undertake  the  project  regardless  of  the  attitude  taken  by  the  State 
Department. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  That  is  not  the  explanation  which  Major 
Casey  gave,  I  believe. 

Senator  Clark.  Major  Casey  speaks  in  this  same  letter,  which  was 
entered  as  "  Exhibit  No.  1013  ",  4  days  after  the  receipt  of  the 
Secretarj^  of  State's  letter,  written  to  obtain  the  cooperation  and 
not  permission,  which  is  an  essentially  different  matter,  to  obtain 
the  cooperation  of  the  War  Department : 

To  obtain  the  cooperation  of  the  War  Department  we  addressed  the  Secretary 
of  War,  who  in  turn  submitted  our  question  to  the  State  Department.  After 
many  weeks  we  received  a  reply  from  the  State  Department  which  was  quite 
evasive  and  left  lis  in  the  same  position  that  we  were  when  the  Polish  inquiry 
was  received. 

Then,  in  the  same  letter,  he  continues : 

If  we  were  in  possession  of  complete  technical  details  which  would  enable 
us  to  construct  and  operate  the  proposed  chemical-warfare  plant,  we  would 
undertake  the  project  regardless  of  the  attitude  taken  by  the  State 
Department. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2691 

Mr,  Lammot  du  Pont.  You  will  remember  that  Major  Casey 
explained  that  that  letter  was  worded  with  the  probable  object  or 
probable  eventuality  that  it  would  be  shown  to  the  Polish  authorities. 

Senator  Clakk.  Yes;  I  understand  that. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  was  worded  so  as  not  to  offend  the  Poles. 

Senator  Clark.  But  the  situation  was  that  what  you  were  appar- 
ently after  was  not  only  the  permission  but  the  technical  knowledge 
and  cooperation  of  the  War  Department.  Major  Casey  put  in  this 
letter,  in  so  many  words,  that — 

We  could  not  carry  out  tiie  coutract,  if  we  get  it,  without  the  cooijeration 
•of  the  War  Department. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  So  the  letter  states. 

Senator  Clakk.  Not  the  letter  of  the  Secretary  of  War.  The 
letter  from  Major  Casey  to  Colonel  Taylor  states  it. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Casey.  Does  not  the  later  letter  clear  it  up  ? 

Senator  Clark.  Then  j^ou  say  that  you  regard  the  letter  of  the 
Secretar}"  i!s  too  evasive;  and  then  you  say,  if  you  were  expected  to 
go  ahead  and  carry  out  the  contract,  you  would  do  it  regardless  of 
the  State  Department. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Not  regardless  of  the  State  Department 
but  regardless  of  the  attitude  of  the  State  Department,  being  non- 
commital;  their  attitude  being  noncommital,  we  would  disregard  it. 

Senator  Clark  (reading)  : 

If  we  were  in  possession  of  complete  technical  details  which  would  enable 
us  to  construct  and  operate  the  proposed  chemical-warfare  plant,  we  would 
undertake  the  project  regardless  of  the  attitude  taken  by  the  State  Department. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  What  is  the  attitude  taken  by  the  State 
Department  ?     Noncommital. 

Senator  Clark.  I  understand  you  are  going  into  it  regardless  of 
what  their  attitude  might  be. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  does  not  say  that. 

Senator  Clark.  That  is  the  inference  to  be  drawn :  "  We  are  going 
to  do  it  regardless  of  the  attitude  of  the  State  Department." 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  We  have  the  attitude  of  the  State  Depart- 
ment. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Senator,  has  the  State  Department  letter 
been  assigned  a  number? 

Senator  Clark.  That  may  be  marked  with  the  appropriate 
number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1015  "  and 
appears  in  full  in  the  text  on  p.  2689.) 

influence  of  munitions  companies  on  the  policies  of  governments 

Senator  Clark.  The  other  day  there  was  some  discussion  came 
up  between  Senator  Vandenberg  and  some  of  you  gentlemen  as  to 
the  possible  influence,  or  influence,  of  munition  companies  on  the 
policies  of  governments.  In  that  connection  I  desire  to  offer  for 
appropriate  number  the  letter  of  May  2,  1928,  to  Major  Casey  from 
William  N.  Taylor,  by  Fred  G.  Singer. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1016 "  and 
appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 


2692  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Senator  Clark.  That  is  headed  "  Status  of  Negotiations,"  [Read- 
ing "Exhibit  No.  1016":] 

Poland. — For  the  moment,  powder  sales  are  held  up  on  account  of  the  diplo- 
matic action  of  the  Swedish  Government.  We  are  doing  all  we  can  to  get 
counterpressure  put  on  by  the  British  Government. 

Do  you  know  what  Colonel  Taylor  was  doing  to  get  counterpres- 
sure put  on  by  the  British  Government? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  know  anything  he  did,  but  notify  I.C.I. 
of  the  apparent  action  taken  by  the  Swedish  Government. 

Senator  Clark.  You  do  not  know  what  he  meant  when  he  said: 

We  are  doing  all  we  can  to  get  counterpressure  put  on  !)y  the  British 
Government. 

Mr.  Casey.  All  I  know  is  what  he  said. 

Senator  Clark.  Do  you  not  have  any  further  information  on 
that? 

Mr.  Casey.  No. 

Mr.  Rausiienbusii.  Do  you  not  remember  the  Bofors  interest  in 
Sweden  putting  pressure  on  Sweden? 

Mr.  Casey.  So  we  heard. 

Senator  Clark.  I  offer  for  appropriate  number  a  memorandum  by 
Colonel  Simons  dated  October  5,  1926,  headed  "  S-44  Washington — 
September  30,  1925." 

The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1017 "  and 
appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Clark.  I  direct  your  particular  attention  to  the  last  para- 
graph on  page  2,  Major  [reading]  : 

Called  on  Major  Burns  of  the  Office  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War,  in 
reference  to  the  article  prepared  with  the  assistance  of  the  du  Pont  Co.  for 
publication  in  some  popular  magazine.  Major  Burns  looked  up  this  matter  and 
reported  that  the  article  had  been  passed  on  by  General  Williams  as  satisfac- 
tory and  had  then  gone  to  the  various  branches  of  the  General  Staff  who 
returned  it  to  General  Williams  with  full  approval  of  all  except  one  passage 
of  three  or  four  lines  which  the  General  Staff  regarded  as  controversial  and 
to  be  revised  or  omitted.  When  this  revision  is  made,  it  is  expected  that  the 
article  will  be  published  over  General  Williams'  signature. 

It  indicates  that  you  were  actually  preparing  articles  for  the  Chief 
of  Ordnance  of  the  United  States  Army  to  sign.  Does  not  that  pretty 
well  reflect  the  relationship  between  the  War  Department  and  the 
du  Pont  Co.  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Would  you  mind  if  I  read  the  entire  letter? 

Senator  Clark.  Not  at  all.     [Reading  "  Exhibit  No.  1017  " :] 

Called  on  Colonel  Pegram  who  advised  me  that  the  matter  of  the  small  arms 
targets  sent  by  the  Canadian  Government  as  a  present  to  the  United  States 
Government  had  at  last  been  straightened  out.  These  targets  had  been  sent  to 
Rock  Island  Arsenal  where  a  thorough  study  was  made  of  them,  the  general 
result  being  that  they  were  considered  an  infringement  of  the  Aiken  patents 
and  very  much  inferior  mechanically  to  the  Aiken  design.  However,  a  courteous 
letter  will  be  sent  to  the  Canadian  Government  through  the  channels  of  the 
British  Ambassador  at  Washington. 

Were  you  concerned  about  these  targets.  Major? 

Mr.  Casey.  Only  to  this  extent :  I  t<jok  up  a  rifle  team  to  Canada  in 
1924,  and  in  watching  their  operation  I  got  the  Dominion  of  Canada 
Rifle  Association  to  agree  to  send  down  for  examination  by  our 
people  that  form  of  target. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2693 

Senator  Clark.  It  is  not  material    [continuing  reading] : 

I  also  learned  from  other  sources  that  the  State  Department  had  consented 
in  principle  to  the  visit  of  a  military  mission  from  Holland  to  buy  munitions 
in  this  country,  it  being  a  known  fact  that  the  Hollanders  are  very  much 
dissatisfied  with  the  treatment  they  are  receiving  from  the  French  and 
British  munitiims  manuiacturers.  The  personnel  and  time  of  arrival  of  this 
mission  has  not  yet  been  announced. 

It  was  also  learned  on  excellent  authority  that  a  decided  change  of  policy 
in  the  publication  of  military  secrets  has  been  inaugurated  by  the  War 
Department. 

Do  you  know  what  that  was  ? 

Mr.  Casey,  No;  I  do  not. 

Senator  Clark.  It  affected  you,  disclosures  by  the  War  Depart- 
ment of  military  secrets? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  think  it  had  anything  to  do  with  that. 

Senator  Clark.  This  change  in  military  policies  had  nothing  to 
do  with  you? 

Mr.  Casey.  No. 

Senator  Clark  (continuing  reading:) 

Called  on  Major  O'Shaughnessy  of  the  Ordnance  Department  in  reference 
to  my  visit  to  Old  Hickory.  Major  O'Shaughnessy  informed  me  that  it  would 
be  impossible  for  Captain  Fidlar  to  accompany  me,  since  his  presence  was 
urgently  needed  in  Washipgton  at  a  meeting  of  the  district  chiefs.  Major 
O'Shaughnessy  provided  me  with  a  letter  of  introduction  to  Sergeant  Larsen 
who  is  in  charge  of  the  so-called  "  ordnance  reserve  depot "  at  Old  Hickory. 
It  was  also  learned  that  a  bid  of  $15,000  was  expected  from  a  New  York 
dealer  for  the  powder-making  machinery  advertised  for  sale. 

Do  you  know  why  the  War  Department  would  be  telling  the 
du  Pont  Co.  what  sort  of  bids  would  be  received  for  the  powder- 
making  machine  at  Old  Hickory? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  have  not  the  slightest  idea. 

Senator  Clark.  What  was  Colonel  Simons  doing  at  Old  Hickory  ? 
Do  you  know  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  he  was  going  down  there  to  inspect  some  ma- 
chinery offered  there  for  sale. 

Senator  Clark  (reading)  : 

Called  on  General  Joyes  who  discussed  with  me  a  list  of  thesis  subjects 
appropriate  for  graduating  students  in  the  colleges  where  there  is  an  ordnance 
R.  O.  T.  C.  The  list  prepared  by  General  Joyes  impressed  me  as  extremely 
good  in  that  it  brought  about  a  study  of  subjects  of  equal  importance  to  the 
Ordnance  Department  and  value  to  the  student  in  question.  General  Joyes 
also  called  my  attention  to  an  article  published  in  French  which  he  is  having 
translated.  This  article  is  A  Lecture  Delivered  on  the  29th  of  February  1920 
on  the  Manufacture  of  Powders  and  Explosives,  by  M.  I'Heure.  This  is  a 
pamphlet  of  64  pages  printed  in  Paris  by  Librairie  de  I'Enseignement  Technique. 

Called  on  Dr.  Storm,  who  seemed  to  be  very  much  concerned  about  the 
difficulty  of  securing  possession  of  the  tracings  covering  the  design  and  layout 
of  the  smokeless  powder  plant  at  Old  Hickory. 

Do  you  know  what  that  was? 

Mr.  Casey.  No  ;  I  do  not. 

Senator  Clark.  It  is  ncit  material  [continuing  reading]  : 

Called  on  Major  Bums,  of  the  Office  of  The  Assistant  Secretary  of  War,  in 
reference  to  the  article  prepared  with  the  assistant  of  the  du  Pout  Co.  for  pub- 
lication in  some  popular  magazine.  Major  Burns  looked  up  this  matter  and 
reported  that  the  article  had  been  passed  on  by  General  Williams  as  satisfactory 
and  had  then  gone  to  the  various  branches  of  the  General  Staff  who  returned 
it  to  General  Williams  with  full  approval  of  all  except  one  passage  of  three 


2694  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

or  four  lines  which  tlie  General  Staff  regarded  as  controversial  and  to  be 
revised  or  omitted.  When  this  revision  is  made,  it  is  expected  that  the  article 
will  be  published  over  General  Williams'  signature. 

Mr.  Caset.  I  think  I  recollect  that  incident.  This  was  in  con- 
nection with  an  effort  on  the  part  of  Major  Burns  to  get  General 
Williams  to  write  an  article  for  the  Saturday  Evening  Post  on  the 
general  problem  of  national  defense.  General  Williams  said  he  did 
not  have  the  time ;  that  if  an  article  was  prepared  that  he  was  satisfied 
with  he  would  put  his  name  to  it. 

Burns  did  not  have  the  time  to  prepare  such  an  article  on  account 
of  his  job  in  the  Office  of  Assistant  Secretary  of  War.  The  result 
was  that  Mr.  Byrnes  in  our  company,  I  think,  prepared  the  article, 
or  one  was  submitted.  After  this  letter  was  written  it  was  decided 
that  probably  the  article  had  better  not  be  published,  so  that  it  was 
never  published. 

Senator  Cl-\ek.  The  only  point  I  am  getting  at,  Major,  is  that 
it  does  show  the  very  close  relationship  between  your  company  and 
the  War  Department  for  you  to  be  preparing,  through  your  own  per- 
sonnel, articles  to  receive  the  signature  of  the  Chief  of  Ordnance  of 
the  United  States  Army. 

Mr.  Casey.  But  realize  this:  Before  he  put  his  name  to  it,  he 
would  have  to  be  fairly  satisfied. 

Senator  Clark.  He  would  read  it  over,  I  understand. 

The  Chairman.  Senator  Clark,  will  you  pardon  us  long  enough 
so  that  there  may  be  offered  for  the  record  a  letter  which  is  dated 
today,  December  11,  1934,  to  the  committee,  by  Leo  Kohn,  who  has 
been  mentioned  in  connection  with  the  testimony  here?  I  shall 
read  the  letter  and  offer  it  for  the  record  [reading]  : 

At  the  end  of  September  1934  my  attention  was  called  to  an  article  appearing 
in  the  New  York  American  of  September  15  reporting  a  session  of  your  com- 
mittee of  September  14.  A  letter  of  one  Col.  William  N.  Taylor,  Paris  repre- 
sentative of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.,  addressed  to  Maj.  K.  K.  "V.  Casey^ 
was  read.     Your  exliibit  No.  507. 

In  this  letter  one  Leo  Kohn,  of  90  West  Street,  New  York  City,  was  men- 
tioned;  furtlier,  one  James  Magnus  &  Co.,  of  Hamburg,  Germany,  was  men- 
tioned. 

I  am  the  Leo  Kohn,  of  90  West  Street,  New  York  City,  and  my  brother,  Karl 
A.  Kohn,  is  the  owner  of  James  Magnus  &  Co.,  of  Hamburg,  Germany, 

I  have  communicated  with  my  brother  regarding  Colonel  Taylor's  letter,  ex- 
hibit no.  507.  Neither  he  nor  I  have  ever  been  directly  or  indirectly  connected 
in  the  remotest  sense  with  anything  that  has  to  do  with  ammunitions,  guns,  etc. 

Colonel  Taylor,  I  charge,  has  deliberately  lied  in  this  letter  about  my  brother 
and  myself,  and  I  would  ask  you  to  permit  me  to  testify  before  your  committee. 

I  wish  to  add  that  I  also  communicated  with  Mr,  A.  Felix  du  Pont  and 
received  a  very  unsatisfactory  reply.  I  have  this  letter  with  me,  as  well  as 
the  correspondence  with  my  brother. 

Thanking  you  for  your  cooperation,  I  am. 
Very  truly  yours, 

Leo  Kohn. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  1018"  and 
appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Clark.  Major  Casey,  to  go  back  to  that  exhibit  again,  did 
the  du  Pont  Co.  bid  on  the  powder  machinerv  advertised  for  sale  at 
Old  Hickory? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Clark,  Do  you  remember  how  much  they  bid  ? 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2695 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  probably  more  than  double  the  price  here  men- 
tioned. But  that  probably  was  in  the  nature  of  a  proceeding  such; 
as  this.  As  we  understood  it,  the  Government  had  to  get  off  the 
property  at  Old  Hickory.  It  had  been  sold  to  the  Nashville  indus- 
trial Corporation  or  some  such  company.  They  had  a  lot  of  powder- 
making  machinery  and  they  were  very  anxious  to  have  someone  take- 
the  machinery. 

They  asked  us  if  we  would  not  undertake  to  purchase  this  ma- 
chinery so  as  to  hold  it,  with  the  understanding  that  if  we  did  get  an 
opportunity  to  dispose  of  it  and  took  it  up  with  them  they  would 
then  decide  as  to  whether  or  not  there  was  sufficient  balance  left  so 
that  we  would  be  justified  in  disposing  of  it. 

Therefore  we  put  in  a  bid  on  this  machinery. 

Senator  Claek.  Do  you  know  how  much  the  bid  was,  Major  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  have  not  got  the  exact  amount. 

Senator  Clark.  Have  you  got  it  in  your  records  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Clakk.  Will  you  look  it  up  and  supply  it  for  us  ?  ^ 

Mr.  Casey.  Certainly.  The  result  was  that  we  did  take  the  ma- 
chinery, and,  I  think,  with  the  exception  of  one  piece  of  machinery, 
it  is  all  in  this  country  today. 

Senator  Clakk.  I  am  not  interested  in  where  it  is  located  today. 
I  am  interested  in  the  question  as  to  whether  it  is  not  bad  practice 
for  the  War  Department  to  be  telling  one  prospective  bidder  a  bid 
they  expect  from  another  prospective  bidder. 

Mr.  Casey.  The  only  point  is  this:  The  other  bidder  would  bid 
on  it  as  junk.  We  are  bidding  on  the  basis  of  holding  that  machin- 
ery intact.  Their  bid,  or  any  junk  dealer's  bid,  would  have  no  influ- 
ence on  the  purpose  we  were  trying  to  assist  the  War  Department  in 
doing. 

Senator  Clark.  That  is  the  reason  they  told  you  what  bids  were 
expected. 

Mr.  Casey.  That  may  be ;  I  do  not  know. 

Senator  Clark.  I  call  your  attention  to  a  letter  dated  January 
26,  1929,  signed  by  C.  I.  B.  Henning,  technical  director,  addressed  to 
Dr.  C.  M.  Stine,  chemical  director,  which  I  otfer  for  appropriate 
number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1019  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2830.) 

Senator  Clark.  That  is  headed  "  Cooperation  with  Chemical  War- 
fare Service."    [Reading:] 

Confirming  informal  discussion  with  you  yesterday,  there  are  a  number  of 

reasons  why  our  contact  with  the  Chemical  Warfare  Service  should  follow 
principles  similar  to  our  contact  with  the  Ordnance  Department,  United  States 
Army,  and  Bureau  of  Ordnance,  United  States  Navy.  We  recognize  the  essen- 
tial difference  that  for  the  present  there  is  prospectively  little  to  sell  to  Chem- 
ical Warfare ;  also  that  the  company's  developments  in  fundamental  research 
are  of  such  a  character  that  the  writer,  for  instance,  is  not  a  competent  judge 
of  what  is  and  what  is  not  important  to  the  other  industries  with  which  this 
department  is  not  connected ;  and  hence  our  suggestion  that  individuals  in  the 
chemical  department  and  the  company's  laboratories  be  careful   to  refer  all 


1  On  March  29,  1935,  the  du  Pont  Co.  informed  the  committee  that  the  purchase 
price  of  the  Old  Hickory  machinery  amounted  to  .$15,000.  The  purchase  of  necessary 
land,  buildings,  and  incidental  expenses  tor  the  storage  of  the  machinery  amounted  to 
$14,500. 


2696  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

these  questions  to  you  personally  before  passing  information  on  direct  to  indi- 
viduals from  Edgewood  Arsenal  or  Chemical  Warfare  Service's  officers  in 
Washington. 

It  is  also  appropriate  to  review  a  little  of  the  past  history  of  this  subject. 
In  February  1924  question  was  raised  as  to  our  assisting  Dr.  Rossi,  an  im- 
portant Italian  chemical  manufacturer,  witli  technical  advice  in  the  erection 
and  putting  into  operation  of  a  plant  in  Italy  for  the  manufacture  of  war  gases 
for  the  Italian  Government.  Mr.  Ir§n6e  du  Pont  wrote  General  Fries  under 
date  of  February  4,  1924,  stating,  "  We  believe  the  du  Pont  Co.  should  not 
undertake  work  of  this  sort  for  a  foreign  government  except  on  the  written 
request  of  the  Secretary  of  War  stating  that  it  is  done  in  the  interest  of  the 
United  States  Government  and,  in  the  present  case,  authorizing  the  Chemical 
Warfare  Department  to  give  us  such  assistance  as  they  feel  is  justifiable  to 
aid  us  in  properly  doing  the  work,  in  return  for  which  this  company  will  keep 
the  Chemical  Warfare  Department  iiostt-d  with  such  information  as  we  may 
obtain."  No  answer  was  forthcoming  from  General  Fries  for  some  time,  and 
on  December  2,  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont  and  Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont  attended  a  meet- 
ing in  the  office  of  the  Secretary  of  War,  at  which  were  present  Assistant 
Secretary  of  War  Davis,  General  Williams,  Chief  of  Ordnance,  and  Colonel 
Ferguson.  It  was  found  that  after  the  matter  was  explained  to  Secretary  of 
War  Weeks,  he  was  entirely  in  sympathy  with  the  proposition  and  promptly 
arranged  for  an  interview  with  the  President.  The  entire  party,  with  the 
exception  of  Colonel  Ferguson,  put  this  matter  up  to  Mr.  Coolidge,  who  promptly 
grasped  the  basic  principles  and  in  a  few  words  stated  what  practically 
amounted  to  the  "  munitions  policy." 

What  was  that  policy  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  The  policy  is  a  pretty  long  proposition. 

Senator  Clabk.  It  says  President  Coolidge  stated  it  "  in  a  few 
words." 

Mr.  Casey.  I  believe  President  Coolidge  could  probably  do  that, 
but  the  munitions  policy  was  pretty  well  described  by  General  Wil- 
liams in  a  speech  he  made,  which  was  printed  in  the  Army  Ordnance 
Magazine  several  years  before  that. 

Senator  Clark.  Can  you  give  us  the  essentials  of  the  munitions 
policy  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  could  not.     I  am  not  Coolidge. 

Senator  Clark.  You  must  know  what  the  general  policy  was  re- 
ferred to  in  the  interdepartmental  correspondence  of  your  own  com- 
pany. 

Mr,  Casey.  It  was  not  really  the  correspondence  of  our  company. 

Senator  Clark.  I  say,  the  interdepartmental  correspondence  of 
your  own  company.     This  is  an  interdepartmental  memorandum. 

Mr.  Casey.  It  was  establishing  the  function  of  the  Ordnance  De- 
partment on  its  munitions  policy  and  program  to  conform  with  the 
principles  of  the  National  Defense  Act  of  1916,  as  amended,  and  such 
an  extract  was  read  this  morning,  in  which  are  described  the  duties 
of  The  Assistant  Secretary  of  War. 

Now,  we  have  that  here,  and  it  might  be  read  into  the  record. 
Have  you  got  that  [addressing  associate]  ? 

Senator  Clark.  Did  the  policy  approve  selling  a  poison-gas  plant 
to  the  Italian  Government  or  not? 

Mr.  Casey,  I  do  not  think  there  is  anything  in  the  policy  there 
except 

Senator  Clark.  That  is  what  these  gentlemen  were  over  to  the 
White  House  about,  is  it  not? 

Mr.  Casey.  Wait  a  minute — except  the  policy  enunciating  the 
principle  of  necessity  of  maintaining  as  much  as  possible  the  interest 
of  private  industry  as  a  reserve  for  production  in  time  of  war. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTKY  2697 

Senator  Clark.  These  gentlemen  were  over  there  on  a  particular 
proposition  about  selling  a  gas  plant  to  Italy.  Do  you  not  know 
what  the  decision  was  ?  I  will  read  the  next  paragraph,  which  may 
clear  it  up  in  your  mind  [reading]  : 

Nothing  has  ever  been  done  in  connection  with  the  Italian  proposition,  but 
the  above  facts  are  given  you  as  a  guide  for  action  in  any  similar  problem  that 
may  arise  in  the  future. 

Now,  was  there  any  objection  to  selling  a  poison-gas  plant  to  Italy? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  was  not  present  at  the  meeting. 

Senator  Clark.  You  Imow  the  result  of  the  negotiations. 

Mr.  Casey.  Nothing  ever  happened. 

Senator  Clark.  I  understand ;  but  what  was  the  policy  laid  down 
at  this  meeting  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  was  not  present.  I  do  not  know.  This  was  in  an- 
other department  entirely. 

Senator  Clark.  You  were  familiar  with  such  matters,  were  you 
not,  Major? 

Mr.  Casey.  If  I  attempted  to  keep  myself  familiar  with  every- 
thing that  went  on  in  the  company,  I  would  not  have  time 

Senator  Clark.  If  you  do  not  know,  I  will  take  your  word  for  it, 
but  I  wanted  to  know  if  you  knew  the  policy  laid  down  with  regard 
to  selling  poison-gas  plants  to  foreign  countries. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  know.  Senator,  could  we  introduce  into  the 
record 

Senator  Clark.  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont,  were  you  at  that  meeting  at 
the  White  House  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  This  letter  says  so. 

Senator  Clark.  Can  you  tell  us  what  this  policy  so  briefly  enun- 
ciated by  President  Coolidge  was? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  certainly  cannot. 

Senator  Clark.  Do  you  know  whether  he  gave  you  an  O.  K.  on 
selling  this  poison-gas  factory  to  Italy? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  am  rather  mystified,  because  the  funny 
part  is  I  have  not  the  least  recollection  of  the  meeting. 

Senator  Clark.  Mr.  Felix  du  Pont,  were  you  at  the  meeting  at  the 
White  House? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  No.  The  only  thing  I  recollect  is  having 
been  at  the  meeting  in  the  White  House  when  the  smokeless-powder 
matter  was  discussed. 

Senator  Clark.  Did  you  ever  hear  President  Coolidge  very  briefly 
enunciate  a  munitions  policy? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  No. 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator,  could  we  have  this  paragraph  read  into  the 
record  from  the  national  defense  act? 

Senator  Clark.  If  it  is  material. 

Mr.  Casey.  It  is.    It  is  a  very  short  one. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  is  on  page  22,  section  5-A.    [Beading :] 

Hereafter,  in  addition  to  such  other  duties  as  may  be  assigned  him  by  the 
Secretary  of  War,  The  Assistant  Secretaiy  of  War,  under  the  direction  of  the 
Secretary  of  War,  shall  be  charged  with  supervision  of  the  procurement  of  all 
military  supplies  and  other  business  of  the  War  Department  pertaining  thereto 
and  the  assurance  of  adequate  provision  for  the  mobilization  of  material  and 
industrial  organizations  essential  to  war-time  needs.  The  Assistant  Secretary 
of  War  shall  receive  a  salary  of  $10,000  per  annum.  There  shall  be  detailed  to 
83876— 35— PT  12 5 


2698  MUNITIONS   INDUSTEY 

the  office  of  The  Assistant  Secretary  of  War  from  the  branches  engaged  in  pro- 
curement such  number  of  officers  and  civilian  employees  as  may  be  authorized 
by  regulations  approved  by  the  Secretary  of  War.  The  offices  of  Second  Assist- 
ant Secretary  of  War  and  Third  Assistant  Secretary  of  War  are  hereby 
abolished. 

Senator  Claek.  That  is  very  interesting,  but  it  certainly  does  not 
say  anjrthing  about  The  Assistant  Secretary  of  War  acting  as  a 
salesman  of  munitions. 

I  now  read  excerpts  as  per  the  first  and  last  two  paragraphs  from 
a  letter  dated  February  4,  1929,  from  Major  Casey  to  the  command- 
ing officer.  Edge  wood  Arsenal,  Edge  wood,  Mr.,  headed,  "  Cooperation 
in  Experimental  Work." 

(The  excerpts  referred  to  were  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1020 "',  and 
appear  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Clark  (reading)  : 

Attention  of  Major  Alexander  Wilson. 

Referring  to  discussion  held  in  your  office  during  the  recent  visit  of  Dr.  C.  M. 
Stine,  Lt.  Col.  Aiken  Simons,  and  C.  I.  B.  Henning,  the  military  sales  division 
is  expected  by  the  various  departments  of  the  du  Pont  Co.,  and  to  a  considerable 
extent  by  its  associate  companies,  to  serve  as  the  contact  organization  in  all 
matters  pertaining  to  military  use  of  this  company's  products.  In  order  to 
make  this  contact  more  effective,  we  discussed  various  phases  of  your  past 
experience.  Without  going  too  much  into  detail,  there  are  several  pending 
items  on  which  we  desire  to  advise  and  in  turn  to  receive  your  suggestions. 

Major  Prentiss  of  his  own  initiative  discussed — 

Who  is  Major  Prentiss,  Major? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  imagine  he  is  connected  with  Edgewood  Arsenal. 

Senator  Clark.  In  other  words,  he  is  an  Army  officer? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  so. 

Senator  Clark  (reading)  : 

Major  Prentiss  of  his  own  initiative  discussed  a  somewhat  more  formal 
interchange  of  information  between  the  Chemical  Warfare  Service  and  the 
du  Pont  Co.,  stating  that  on  his  next  trip  to  Washington  there  might  be  some 
advantage  in  ascertaining  the  views  of  General  Fries  on  this  subject.  It  is 
our  desire  to  be  a  help  in  making  our  contact  with  you  as  efficient  as  possible. 
Owing  to  the  complexity  of  our  own  organization,  it  is  necessary  that  some  one 
division  be  responsible  for  contacts  of  this  nature. 

This  letter  is  written  with  the  intention  not  of  emphasizing  unduly  the  imme- 
diate problems  presented,  but  to  obtain  from  you  suggestions  as  to  how,  from 
your  viewpoint,  we  can  function  most  efficiently. 

In  connection  with  that,  I  will  read  a  letter  from  Major  Prentiss 
to  Col.  Aiken  Simons. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1021  ",  and 
appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Clark.  Tliis  is  headed  "  Chemical  Warfare  Service,  Edge- 
wood  Arsenal,  Office  of  the  Technical  Director.''     [Reading:] 

Edgewood,  Md.,  April  24,  1929. 
Col.  Aiken  Simons,  du  Pont  Co., 

Wilmington,  Del. 
Dear  Colonel  Simons  :  Replying  to  your  letter  of  April  22,  in  which  you 
advise  me  that  Dr.  Stine  has  not  yet  returned  to  Wilmington  and  is  not  ex- 
pected for  several  days,  and  upon  his  return  will  undoubtedly  be  extremely 
busy  for  some  time,  I  may  say  that  the  matter  which  I  wished  to  discuss  with 
Dr.  Stine  was  the  general  "modus  operandi"  of  the  exchange  of  information 
which  we  discussed  upon  the  occasion  of  your  last  visit  to  this  arsenal.  As 
you  will  recall,  the  chief's  office  did  not  think  it  feasible  for  us  to  exchange 
technical  reports  but  did  feel  that  information  might  be  freely  exchanged 
by  personal  conference.  It  is  for  the  purpose  of  laying  down  some  regular  pro- 
cedure to  effect  this  exchange  of  information  that  I  particularly  desire  to  see 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2699 

Dr.  Stine,  and  I  doubt  very  nnich  if  anyone  else  will  be  in  a  iwsition  to  act  for 
Dr.  Stine  in  this  matter,  as  it  is  a  rather  unusual  one. 

Under  the  circumstances  I  would  suggest  that  you  advise  me  of  the  earliest 
convenient  date  at  which  Dr.  Stine  could  see  me  to  talk  over  this  matter,  and 
I  will  be  glad  to  arrange  my  visit  accordingly. 
Sincerely  yours, 

A.  M.  Prentiss, 
Major,  C.  W.  8.,  Technical  Director. 

If  you  sell  a  war-gas  factory  to  a  foreign  country  it  might  very 
well  be  that  with  the  system  of  interchange  of  information  between 
yourselves  and  the  Chemical  Warfare  Service  some  of  the  informa- 
tion in  the  Chemical  Warfare  Service  will  be  passed  along  to  the  pur- 
chaser, will  it  not? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  that  would  be  a  natural  result,  because  I 
stated  in  that  previous  memorandum  where  the  conference  with  Pres- 
ident Coolidge  came  in,  it  was  clearly  stated  there  that  we  would  not 
take  any  action  unless  requested  by  the  Government. 

Senator  Clark.  I  am  glad  to  see  somebody's  memory  coming  back 
about  the  matter  of  that  conference  at  the  White  House. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  had  not,been  to  the  White  House  on  that  matter,  but 
I  say  in  the  memorandum  they  make  that  very  selfsame  statement. 

Senator  Clark.  There  is  no  question  about  the  fact  that  if  you  are 
in  the  process  of  interchanging  information  with  the  Chemical  War- 
fare Service,  and  you  sell  a  war-gas  factory  to  a  foreign  government, 
which  you  install  for  them  and  undertake  to  teach  them  to  operate, 
it  is  almost  inevitable  some  of  this  information  which  you  acquired 
in  this  interchange  with  the  Chemical  Warfare  Service  will  be  passed 
on  to  the  purchaser. 

Mr.  Casey.  It  is  self-evident  from  that  previous  memorandum  that 
we  could  not  do  it  unless  the  United  States  Government  wanted  us 
to  do  it  and  gave  us  the  information. 

Senator  Clark.  I  understand  that,  but  that  is  the  fact,  is  it  not, 
Major? 

Mr.  Casey.  It  is  the  fact;  yes. 

Senator  Clark.  You  recognize  it  in  that  memorandum  to  which 
you  are  referring? 

The  Chairman.  What  is  the  difference  between  exchanging  tech- 
nical reports  and  freely  exchanging  this  information  by  personal 
conference  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  the  answer  is  this.  I  cannot  speak  for  either 
Prentiss  or  Stine,  but  our  work  was  in  connection  with  the  general 
chemical  research  work  on  inorganic  chemicals.  Is  not  that  right, 
Doctor  ? 

Dr.  Sparre.  Organic. 

Mr.  Casey.  Organic  and  inorganic,  both,  for  that  matter.  The 
other  day  I  think  it  was  brought  out  that  there  is  a  point  up  to  which 
you  might  say  both  dyes,  pharmaceuticals,  photographic  material, 
and  so  forth,  and  explosives  or  gases  may  be  brought,  that  you  woukl 
call  the  main  trunk  of  the  tree.  When  you  reach  that  point,  then 
they  branch  off  on  the  one  hand  into  the  line  of  commercial  ma- 
terial such  as  dyes  and  other  materials  of  that  type,  or  on  the  other 
hand  they  may  branch  off  into  high  explosive  material  or  related 
materials. 

Because  of  our  fundamental  research,  there  was  no  doubt  in  the 
world  that  we  could  communicate  to  them  considerable  information 


2700  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

that  would  permit  them  to  go  from  the  main  branch  of  the  tree  into 
the  line  of  research  they  were  following.  We  were  not  following 
any  research  work  along  the  line  that  interested  Edgewood  Arsened 
or  the  Chemical  Warfare  Service. 

USE    or    UNITED     STATES     GOVERNMENT    GUNS     FOR     COMMERCIAL 
DEMONSTRATIONS 

Senator  Clark.  Now,  Major,  when  you  sell  a  powder  to  a  foreign 
government,  you  have  to  give  a  demonstration  of  the  powder,  do 
you  not,  ordinarily? 

Mr.  Casey.  In  a  great  many  cases,  yes ;  others  not. 

Senator  Clark.  It  is  the  ordinary  custom? 

Mr.  Casey.  If  it  is  something  new,  yes. 

Senator  Clark.  I  now  call  your  attention  to  a  letter  from  Colonel 
Taylor  to  Major  Casey,  dated  June  3,  1930,  which  I  offer  for  appro- 
priate number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1022  ",  and 
appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Clark  (reading)  :  * 

F.  N.  H.  Powder — Holland. 

Dear  Sir:  The  Dutch  Government  advises  that  it  is  impossible  for  them  to 
borrow  a  gun  from  any  European  Government  using  the  French  75-mm  field  gun. 

Regarding  obtaining  a  gun  from  the  United  States  Government  we  had  a 
conversation  with  Colonel  Wesson  about  this  matter. 

Who  is  Colonel  Wesson? 

Mr.  Casey.  He  is  an  ordnance  officer.  I  think  at  that  time  he  was 
stationed  in  London. 

Senator  Clark  (reading)  : 

We  had  a  conversation  with  Colonel  Wesson  about  this  matter,  and  he  be- 
lieves that  this  occasion  had  never  arisen  before,  and  thinks  it  would  certainly 
be  refused  so  as  not  to  create  a  precedence.  Colonel  Wesson  believes,  however, 
that  it  would  be  possible  for  our  company  to  borrow  a  gun  from  the  United 
States  Government  for  a  certain  length  of  time  by  taking  full  responsibility  for 
wear  and  tear  and  for  its  return.  Our  company  could  then  send  it  to  Holland 
to  be  fired  for  tests  and  returned. 

It  seems  to  me  desirable  to  make  every  effort  to  obtain  this  gun  in  this  way, 
as  we  know  the  powder  acts  all  right  in  it,  and  as  it  will  give  a  good  impression 
of  our  powder.  We  have  warned  the  Dutch  Government  that  fitting  their  guns 
may  be  very  difl^cult,  but  they  want  to  see  the  powder  presented  under  the  best 
conditions. 

I  believe  it  impossible  to  get  a  gun  in  Europe  except  by  buying  one  from 
Schneider.    The  Fabrique  Nationale  of  Li^ge,  Belgium,  do  not  make  artillery. 

As  we  would  particularly  like  for  Mr.  Bradway  to  be  present  at  the  F.  N.  H. 
trials  in  Holland,  we  advised  you  of  the  above  by  our  cable  No.  845,  hoping 
that  you  can  arrange  to  send  the  gun  and  40  made-up  rounds  to  Holland  early 
enough  for  firings  to  be  made  in  Holland  before  Mr,  Bradway  returns  to 
America. 

You  actually  got  this  gun,  did  you.  Major? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  believe  we  did.  The  gun  in  question  was  by  that 
time  an  obsolete  type  in  the  United  States  as  to  design. 

Senator  Clark.  It  was  still  in  service  in  the  War  Department? 

Mr.  Casey.  Oh,  yes;  it  is  still  in  service,  but  it  is  an  obsolete 
design.  In  other  words,  as  fast  as  they  can  get  the  money  for  the 
new  designs,  they  will  have  that. 

Senator  Clark.  I  call  your  attention  to  another  memorandum,  to 
the  traffic  department,  signed  by  W.  H.  O'Gorman,  assistant  director, 
dated  September  8,  1930. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2701 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.   1023'',  and 
appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 
Senator  Clark  (reading)  : 

Shipment  of  gun  and  ammunition  to  Holland. 

This  is  directed  to  Mr.  O.  E.  Pyle. 

In  connection  with  prospective  sale  of  du  Pont  F.  N.  H.  cannon  powder  to 
the  Holland  Government,  we  have  borrowed  a  75-mm  gun,  model  1917,  from 
the  United  States  Government,  which  we  propose  to  ship  to  Holland  together 
with  40  rounds  of  ammunition.  The  gun  and  ammunition  are  being  shipped 
for  firing  tests  in  Holland  and  we  desire  to  make  immediate  booking  to  cover. 

We  do  not  think  it  is  advisable  to  make  shipment  of  the  items  mentioned  in 
the  name  of  the  du  Pont  Co.,  and  consequently  would  ask  that  you  arrange  to 
have  the  matter  handled  by  one  of  your  export  brokers  making  shipment,  if 
possible,  in  their  name. 

Why  did  you  not  desire  to  have  it  shipped  in  the  name  of  the  du 
Pont  Co.  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  There  was  some  reason  at  the  time;  I  have  forgotten 
what  it  was;  whether  it  was  because  we  did  not  want  to  have  the 
name  "  du  Pont  "  tied  up  with  a  gun  or  what,  I  do  not  know,  because 
we  did  not  make  the  guns. 

Senator  Clark  (reading)  : 

We  are  attaching  copy  of  memorandum  indicating  the  specifications  of  the 
gun  and  spare  parts,  which  will  be  included,  together  with  the  value  of  each 
item.  In  the  first  instance  we  were  of  the  opinion  that  the  gun  should  be  dis- 
mantled for  shipment.  However,  Aberdeen  Proving  Ground  recommended  that 
it  be  shipped  intact,  and  this  recommendation  was  adopted.  The  gun  has  been 
securely  crated,  the  weights  and  dimensions  of  the  crate  being  as  follows : 
Length,  13  feet  8  inches ;  width,  6  feet  8  inches ;  height,  5  feet  4  inches ;  gross 
weight,  3,900  pounds.  This  gross  weight  includes  weight  of  gun  and  carriage, 
which  is  2,887  pounds,  and  weight  of  tools,  accessories,  and  crate,  which  is 
1,013  pounds. 

We  have  not  received  actual  weights  and  dimensions  of  the  cases  containing 
the  40  rounds  of  ammunition.  However,  we  know  that  each  round  will  eon- 
tain  26.6  ounces  of  smokeless  powder  and  will  have  a  proof  slug  weighing 
approximately  15.96  pounds.  From  this  you  will  note  that  there  is  only 
approximately  66i/^  pounds  of  smokeless  powder  involved.  This  ammunition 
will  be  equipped  with  primers.  The  packing  cases  in  which  the  ammunition 
will  be  shipped  will  be  approximately  9  inches  by  9  inches  by  26  inches,  there 
being  4  rounds  included  in  each  box. 

We  have  executed  a  bond  in  favor  of  the  Government,  in  the  amount  of 
$8,500,  covering  the  return  of  the  gun  in  question  within  a  period  of  1  year. 
In  view  of  this,  it  is  important  that  shipment  be  arranged  immediately.  Since 
the  gun  is  now  on  hand  at  Aberdeen  Proving  Ground,  Aberdeen,  Md.,  it  would 
be  convenient  to  ship  from  Philadelphia,  if  possible.  However,  in  the  event 
this  cannot  be  arranged  and  shipment  can  be  made  more  promptly  from  New 
York,  please  arrange  to  make  the  booking  accordingly.  Your  Mr.  Grubb  has 
quoted  us  a  trucking  rate  of  $40  to  Philadelphia  and  $60  to  New  York.  Leager's 
O.  K.  Transfer,  Wilmington,  Del.,  moved  this  gun  from  Raritan  Arsenal, 
Metuchen,  N.  J.,  to  Aberdeen,  and  the  quotation  mentioned  was  submitted  by 
this  same  company. 

Please  let  us  hear  from  you  immediately  regarding  this  matter. 

This  is  another  instance,  is  it  not,  Major,  where  it  is  not  intended 
for  the  War  Department  files  to  show  the  actual  transaction  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  You  mean  in  the  way  the  gun  was  borrowed? 

Senator  Clark.  Yes. 

Let  me  read  you  another  letter  from  yourself  to  the  Chief  of  Ord- 
nance, United  States  Army,  dated  June  25,  1930. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1024  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2832.) 


2702  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Senator  Clark  (reading)  : 

Chief  of  Ordnance,  United  States  Army, 

Munitions  Building,  Washington,  D.  C. 
Deiar  Sir:  Under  authority  contained  in  section  123  of  the  National  Defense 
Act,  the  du  Pont  Co.  requests  the  lone  of  one  75-mm  gun,  model  1916-17,  for  tha 
purpose  of  making  tests  to  perfect  FNH  powder. 

These  tests  were  not  for  the  purpose  of  perfecting  any  powder, 
were  they,  Major?  They  were  for  the  purpose  of  demonstrating 
powder  which  you  were  going  to  sell. 

Mr,  Casey.  At  the  same  time,  at  this  particular  time  and  even 
today,  we  are  still  trying  to  perfect  FNH  powder.  We  have  not 
reached  perfection  yet. 

Senator  Clark,  The  memorandum  from  your  own  assistant  to 
Mr,  Pyle,  of  the  traffic  department,  says : 

In  connection  with  prospective  sale  of  du  Pont  FNH  cannon  powder  to  the 
Holland  Government,  we  have  borrowed  a  75-mm  gun,  model  1917,  from  the 

United  States  Government. 

Will  you  just  read  that  section  of  the  National  Defense  Act  there, 
Major,  that  applies  to  this?  You  say  section  123,  I  could  not  find 
it  in  the  act  myself,  and  I  looked  for  it  a  few  moments  ago. 

Mr.  Casey.  Here  is  section  123.     Will  you  read  it,  please? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  is  on  page  81 : 

Sec.  123.  Procurement  of  gauges,  dies,  jigs,  and  so  forth,  necessary  for 
manufacture  of  arms,  and  so  forth. — The  Secretary  of  War  he,  and  he  is  hereby, 
authorized  to  prepare  or  cause  to  be  prepared,  to  purchase  or  otherwise  procure, 
such  gauges,  dies,  jigs,  tools,  fixtures,  and  other  special  aids  and  appliances, 
including  specifications  and  detailed  drawings,  as  may  be  necessary  for  the 
immediate  manufacture,  by  the  Government  and  by  private  manufacturers,  of 
arms,  ammunition,  and  special  equipment  necessary  to  arm  and  equip  the  land 
forces  likely  to  be  required  by  the  United  States  in  time  of  war :  Provided,  That 
in  the  expenditure  of  any  sums  appropriated  to  carry  out  the  purposes  of  this 
section  the  existing  laws  prescribing  competition  in  the  procurement  of  supplies 
by  purchase  shall  not  govern,  whenever  in  the  opinion  of  the  Secretary  of  War 
such  action  will  be  for  the  best  interest  of  the  public  service. 

Senator  Clark,  I  read  that  a  little  while  ago,  but  that  obviously  is 
not  the  section  at  all  that  provides  for  taking  a  gun  of  the  United 
States  Army  abroad  to  Holland  for  the  purpose  of  selling  powder 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  think  it  is. 

Senator  Clark  (continuing).  For  a  private  munitions  company.  I 
am  frank  to  say  I  have  been  unable  to  find  any  section  that  does 
authorize  taking  an  American  gun  to  Holland  for  the  purpose  of 
selling  powder  to  a  private  munitions  company. 

Mr.  Casey,  Apparently  that  section  referred  to  is  not  the  correct 
one,    I  think  that  is  self  evident. 

Senator  Clark.  I  can  understand  that. 

Mr.  Casey,  If  I  may  look  through  this  at  some  time 

Senator  Clark.  All  right.  I  will  not  try  to  pin  you  down  on  that, 
Major.  It  has  probably  been  revised  since.  But  I  would  be  very 
much  interested  to  see  what  section  of  the  law  does  authorize  the 
Government  to  lend  a  piece  of  ordnance  belonging  to  the  War 
Department  for  demonstration  in  Holland  in  connection  with  the 
sale  of  poAvder  to  Holland. 

Major,  sometimes  when  it  is  not  feasible  to  borrow  a  gun  from 
the  Government,  it  may  be  feasible  to  have  the  United  States  Ord- 
nance Department  cooperate  at  this  end,  may  it  not? 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2703 

Senator  Clark.  I  call  your  attention  to  a  letter  dated  April  23, 
1931,  from  Major  Casey  to  Colonel  Taylor. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1025  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2832.) 

Senator  Clark.  It  says : 

Regarding  the  discussion  that  Mr.  Singer  had  with  Mr.  Gray,  of  the  United 
States  Sperry  Ordnance  Co.,  Mr.  Gilmore,  vice  president  of  the  company, 
together  with  Mr.  Gray,  had  an  interview  with  us  tliis  morning.  Mr.  A.  Felix 
du  Pont.  Mr.  Porter,  Mr.  Bradway,  and  the  writer  were  present. 

It  was  practically  agreed  that  there  were  cei'tain  advantages  to  be  gained  by 
cooperation  between  the  companies. 

What  does  the  Sperry  Co.  manufacture,  by  the  way.  Major? 

Mr.  Casey.  The  Sperry  Ordnance  Co.  referred  to  there 

Senator  Clark.  That  is  what  I  mean. 

Mr.  Casey  (continuing).  Was  a  company  organized  to  attempt 
to  make  the  Driggs  3-inch  A.  A.  gun  that  Driggs  himself  was  offer- 
ing in  Poland. 

Senator  Clark.  That  was  the  rapid-fire  naval  gun  Driggs  was 
talking  about. 

Mr.  Casey.  This  is  an  antiaircraft  gun. 

Senator  Clark.  An  antiaircraft  gun. 

Mr.  Casey.  The  Sperry  people  themselves,  due  to  certain  of  their 
personnel  as  well  as  their  own  experience,  were  equipped  to  make 
certain  elements  in  connection  with  that  gun,  such  as  the  director. 
On  the  other  hand,  they  could  not  make  the  gun,  nor  could  they 
make  the  carriage.  Therefore,  in  conjunction  with  the  United 
States  Qast  Iron  Pipe  &  Foundry — is  not  that  the  name?  Well,  you 
know  the  company. 

Senator  Clark.  I  have  heard  the  name  mentioned  here,  Major. 

Mr.  Casey.  They  organized  for  this  particular  purpose  the  United 
States  Sperry  Ordnance  Co. 

Senator  Clark.  The  cooperation  was  to  be  that  they  were  to  make 
guns  and  you  were  to  sell  the  powder,  that  was  the  basis  of  cooper- 
ation ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes ;  that  is  the  idea. 

Senator  Clark  (reading)  : 

It  was  practically  agreed  that  there  were  certain  advantages  to  be  gained 
by  cooperation  between  the  companies.  They  have  discovered  that  it  is  diffi- 
cult to  sell  fire-control  equipment  without  the  gun  and  it  is  likewise  difficult 
to  sell  the  gun  without  the  ammunition.  In  our  case  we  have  likewise  found 
it  would  be  to  our  advantage  to  be  tied  up  with  a  proposition  involving  com- 
plete equipment. 

The  question  of  securing  a  gun  from  the  Ordnance  Department  and  shipping 
it  to  Poland  was  found  to  be  neither  feasible  nor  desirable. 

You  had  not  found  that  previously,  had  you.  Major?  You  could 
borrow  a  gim  whenever  you  wanted  to  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  There  was  a  definite  reason  here.  In  the  first  place, 
there  are  certain  restrictions  on  the  use  of  the  recuperator.  The 
recuperator  was  secured  from  the  French  by  the  United  States  Gov- 
ernment, and  the  United  States  Government  will  not  divulge  any 
of  the  details  of  that  recuperator.  When  I  say  "  recuperator  ",  I 
am  referring  to  their  type  of  recoil  mechanism. 

Senator  Clark  (reading)  : 

It  was,  therefore,  agreed  that  the  Sperry  Co.  would  immediately  start  work 
to  induce  a  Polish  mission  to  visit  this  country  at  the  expense  of  the  Sperry 


2704  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Co.  to  witness  a  demonstration  of  the  3-inch  A.  A.  equipment  and  other  ma- 
terial, if  deemed  necessary.  The  Ordnance  Department  have  already  agreed 
to  put  on  such  a  show. 

The  advantages  of  tliis  method  are  manifold :  in  the  first  place,  we  can  rest 
assured  that  the  tests  will  be  of  such  nature  as  to  be  at  least  favorable  to 
the  material  being  demonstrated. 

I  understand  this  is  a  show  to  be  put  on  by  the  Ordnance  Depart- 
ment, but  you  can  arrange  in  advance  to  have  it  be  favorable  to  the 
material  being  demonstrated. 

The  personnel  handling  the  gun  or  guns  will  be  thoroughly'  familiar  with 
their  job.  The  mission  would  likewise  be  given  an  opportunity  to  visit  the 
different  plants  involved  in  the  manufacture  of  this  equipment,  which  would 
naturally  include  the  du  Pont  plant,  and  the  fact  that  the  tests  would  be 
ofiBcial  tests  of  the  United  States  Government  could  be  played  up  tremendously. 

The  expense  of  a  mission  coming  to  this  country  would  be  considerably  less 
than  the  expense  involved  in  securing  a  gun  and  shipping  the  same  to  the 
other  side,  together  with  the  proper  personnel  to  handle  it,  as  well  as  the 
other  personnel  involved  in  the  negotiation. 

With  Pilsudski's  return  to  Warsaw  the  conditions  may  be  more  favorable 
than  they  were  heretofore. 

Why  was  that,  Major? 

Mr.  Casey.  There  existed  in  Poland  the  same  situation  that  exists 
in  other  countries.  That  is,  Pilsudski  was  a  man  who  believed  along 
a  certain  line,  whereas  some  of  his  political  opponents  believed 
otherwise. 

Senator  Clark.  In  other  words,  he  would  be  a  little  freer  bran- 
dishing a  sword,  therefore  more  likely  to  buy  munitions? 

Mr.  Casey.  No,  no;  that  was  not  it.  Pilsudski  was  anxious  to  buy 
from  America  rather  than  make  in  Poland.  In  this  particular  in- 
stance the  Driggs  proposition  was  not  satisfactory  to  the  United 
States  Sperry  Ordnance  Co.  for  several  reasons,  one  being  that  400 
guns  were  supposed  to  be  the  total  number  involved  in  this  pros- 
pective order,  and  of  that  number  100  guns  were  to  be  made  in  this 
country,  the  remaining  300  guns  made  in  Poland.  It  was  to  be  the 
Driggs  gun.  And  as  I  stated,  the  Driggs  gun  did  not  nor  would 
it  be  allowed  to  use  the  recuperator.  They  had  to  develop  their 
own  recoil  mechanism.  Driggs,  of  course,  assured  the  Poles  that 
his  recoil  mechanism  was  far  superior  to  the  French  recuperator. 
That  did  not  appeal  to  either  the  United  States  Sperry  Ordnance 
Co.  nor  was  the  Ordnance  Department  interested  in  300  guns  or 
three-fourths  of  the  order  being  produced  in  Poland.  Further  than 
that,  Driggs  had  already  decided  on  a  price,  and  the  Sperry  Co.,  in 
going  over  his  figures,  could  not  understand  how  he  was  going  to 
sell  a  gun  that  was  going  to  cost,  according  to  their  figures,  about 
$35,000,  for  $27,000.  Driggs  dismissed  that  by  saying,  "  I  do  not 
expect  to  make  any  money  on  the  guns  made  in  this  country.  I 
expect  to  make  my  money  on  the  guns  made  in  Poland."  So  you 
see  the  thing  was  unattractive. 

Senator  Clark.  Why  did  you  welcome  the  return  of  Pilsudski  to 
Warsaw  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Because  he  was  more  inclined  to  purchase  on  the 
outside,  realizing  as  a  military  man  that  Poland  did  not  have  the 
source  of  supplies  of  raw  materials  to  enable  them  to  produce  their 
own  munitions. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2705 

Senator  Clark  (reading)  : 

By  next  Monday  the  Sperry  people  expect  to  have  a  considerable  amount  of 
data  collected,  and  on  Tuesday  the  28th  we  expect  to  receive  word  from  the 
Sperry  people  as  to  what  has  been  accomplished. 

Mr.  Gray  is  sailing  for  Europe  on  Wednesday  the  29th.  We  cannot  as  yet 
advise  the  steamer  as  his  reservations  have  not  been  made,  but  promptly  upon 
receipt  of  same  we  will  cable  you. 

Then  he  goes  on  about  going  to  Europe. 

The  basis  of  the  willingness  of  the  Ordnance  Department  to  render  this  assist- 
ance is  predicated  on  the  general  theory  that  it  is  necessary  for  the  national 
defense  to  do  everything  possible  to  help  maintain  private  manufacture  in  the 
ammunition  game.  Therefore,  any  assistance  they  can  render  to  bring  this 
about  they  will  do,  but  they  are  not  interested  in  a  proposition  to  establish  the 
manufacture  of  Army  ordnance  material  in  foreign  countries  unless  they  merely 
represent  a  small  proportion  of  the  number  to  be  manufactured  in  the  United 
States.  In  other  words,  the  facilities  for  manufacture  are  the  plain  objective 
of  the  Ordnance  Department. 

The  Sperry  people  feel  that  the  experience  we  have  had  in  European  negotia- 
tions is  quite  a  factor  and  our  participation  in  any  such  arrangements  would 
be  limited  to  the  extent  of  the  material  to  be  furnished  by  us. 

If  there  are  any  further  developments  along  this  line,  we  will  advise  you 
promptly. 

Did  that  mission  ever  come  over,  Major? 

Mr.  Casey.  No  ;  not  that  I  know  of. 

Senator  Clark.  Then  the  Ordnance  Department  never  got  a 
chance  to  put  on  its  show? 

Mr.  Casey.  Not  that  I  know  of.  I  do  not  even  know  today 
whether  the  United  States  Sperry  Ordnance  Co.  is  in  existence.  They 
were  organized  to  take  over  this  Driggs  matter,  and,  as  far  as  I  Imow, 
when  that  thing  petered  out,  if  they  are  in  existence,  I  do  not  know  it. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Senator,  may  I  go  back  to  this  paragraph 
123,  which  I  read?  Major  Casey  seemed  to  think  that  was  the  correct 
reference. 

Senator  Clark.  Yes. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  am  not  a  very  good  reader,  and  I  think  if 
you  read  this  carefully 

Senator  Clark.  I  read  it  before  the  hearing  started.  I  thought  it 
was  obviously  the  wrong  section. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  May  I  read  the  language  as  it  might  be 
interpreted  ? 

Senator  Clark.  Yes;  by  all  means. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont  (reading)  : 

The  Secretary  of  War  be,  and  he  is  hereby,  authorized  to  *  *  *  cause  to 
be  prepared  *  *  *  appliances  *  *  *  necessary  for  the  *  *  *  manu- 
facture *  *  *  by  private  manufacturers,  of  *  *  *  special  equipment 
*     *     *     likely  to  be  required  by  the  United  States  in  time  of  war. 

Senator  Clark.  That  does  not  appear  in  the  law  to  begin  with,  Mr. 
du  Pont.  If  you  are  able  to  read  into  the  section  providing  for  the 
purchase  of  a  supply  of  jigs  and  dies,  and  equipment  of  that  sort, 
an  authorization  to  lend  guns  to  be  taken  abroad  into  a  foreign 
country  and  used  in  the  demonstration  of  powder  for  sale  to  that 
foreign  country,  you  have  more  ingenuity  than  I  can  conceive  of, 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  the  only  interpretation  necessary 
here  is  to  interpret  the  authorization  to  prepare  to  mean  the  authori- 


2706  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

zation  to  use.  If  he  can  prepare  something,  he  certainly  ought  to  be 
able  to  use  it. 

Senator  Clark.  I  am  certainly  willing  interpretations  go  into  the 
record,  but  I  certainly  do  not  feel  you  will  find  any  reasonable  man 
to  agree  with  you. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  that  is  the  paragraph,  nevertheless. 

Mr.  Casey.  We  will  continue  to  look,  anyway,  to  see  if  we  can  find 
something  else. 

Senator  Clark.  All  right. 

The  Chairman.  I  suggest.  Major  Casey,  you  get  in  touch  with  Mr. 
Driggs  and  find  out  by  what  authorization  he  prevailed  upon  one  of 
our  American  battleships  to  go  over  to  Turkey  to  have  one  of  his 
new  guns  demonstrated  for  the  benefit  of  the  Turks. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  guess  Mr.  Driggs  can  tell  his  own  story. 

The  Chairman.  He  may  have  discovered  the  way  to  do  it. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

NATIONAL  POLICY  REGARDING  MUNITIONS   SHIPMENTS   TO  FOREIGN 

COUNTRIES 

Senator  Clark.  Now,  Major,  I  hand  you  an  unsigned  memo- 
randum taken  from  the  du  Pont  files,  dated  July  27,  1923,  headed, 
"  Nobel-Military  Powder  ",  which  I  will  ask  to  have  marked  ap- 
propriately. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1026  ", 
and  appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Clark.  Can  you  tell  me  who  wrote  that  memorandum  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  It  looks  very  much  like  one  of  mine. 

Senator  Clark.  It  sounds  very  much  like  one  of  yours,  too.  Major. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Clark.  It  is  unsigned,  and  I  wanted  to  identify  it,  if 
possible. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Clark.  "  Exhibit  No.  1026  "  reads : 

Memorandum. 

Reasons  why  we  should  sell  military  propellants  and  explosives  in  Europe: 

1.  This  company  was  started  to  supply  military  explosives  and  hasi  been 
doing  so  since  the  beginning  of  its  existence.  It  takes  a  justifiable  pride  in 
always  being  ready  to  serve  the  United  States  Government  in  emergencies  and 
has  advertised  the  fact  that  the  accumulation  of  profits  has  always  been 
secondary  to  the  desire  to  give  patriotic  service. 

2.  For  patriotic  reasons  and  secondarily  for  business  reasons  the  art  of 
manufacture  should  be  kept  alive  and  in  a  state  of  continuous  progressive 
development.  That  this  may  be  accomplished,  sales  outside  the  United  States 
are  necessary  at  this  time,  and  experience  in  the  last  few  years  has  shown 
that  the  only  part  of  the  world  in  which  such  sales  can  be  carried  on  successfully 
is  Europe. 

3.  The  above  ideas  were  suggested  to  us  by  oflScers  of  the  Army  and  Navy, 
General  Williams,  Admiral  Earle,  and  Admiral  McVay  being  particularly  anxious 
that  we  sell  in  foreign  countries  at  least  for  the  time  during  which  appro- 
priation will  be  insufficient  to  give  private  manufacturers  any  Army  and  Navy 
business.  The  same  ideas  were  in  some  cases  suggested,  in  others  favorably 
received  by  Secretary  Denby  and  Secretary  Weeks  and  heartily  endorsed  by 
General  Pershing.  The  organizations  of  niiiitary  and  naval  intelligence  are 
coopei'ating  with  us  in  our  sales  promotion.  R»;th  the  Army  and  Navy  are 
giving  us  assistance  of  inestimable  value  in  research  work  for  the  purpose 
of  improving  military  propellants  and  explosives. 

4.  If  we  retire  from  European  markets,  it  may  be  necessary  to  give  up 
military  business  altogether.    This  would  require  repudiating  our  statements  of 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2707 

patriotism  and  service  which  we  have  made  to  the  public  and  to  the  military 
branches  of  tJie  Government,  and  would  be  a  shameful  thing  to  do. 

5.  It  might  be  said  that  because  the  Government  will  not  make  appropria- 
tion to  order  material  to  keep  our  business  alive,  there  is  no  reason  why  we 
should  go  to  any  trouble  to  do  it  ourselves.  I  do  not  agree  to  this  at  all. 
Countries  have  been  served  and  sometimes  saved  by  the  individual  patriotic 
efforts  of  private  citizens  when  those  in  charge  of  the  Government  were  too 
shortsighted  to  do  what  those  patriotic  citizens  saw  had  to  be  done.  Congress 
is  too  shortsiglited  to  see  the  necessit.v  for  appropriating  funds  to  keep  private 
manufacturers  of  military  materials  in  business.  The  Army  and  Navy  would 
spend  money  for  this  purpose  if  they  could  get  it ;  and  because  they  cannot, 
they  are  doing  all  they  possibly  can  do,  and  that  is  to  help  us  make  sales  to 
other  nations.    This  is  our  country  and  not  the  country  of  Congress. 

That  is  about  the  coldest  statement  that  has  yet  been  made,  Major, 
fts  to  the  ownership  of  the  country. 

6.  We  have  an  investment  for  the  manufacture  of  military  propellants  and 
explosives,  and  the  results  of  4  years  of  eii'ort  are  beginning  to  bear  fruit,  by 
which  means  a  good  return  can  be  made  on  the  investment. 

It  is  evident  thar  the  above  r>\asons  are  suflicient  f^ir  us  to  say  tliat  we  are 
under  obligations  to  continue  our  sales  efforts  in  Europe  and  in  considering 
the  question  of  these  efforts  being  distasteful  to  friends  in  the  same  line  of 
business,  we  should  consider  only  what  we  can  do  in  the  way  of  satisfying 
them  by  some  other  concession  than  that  of  abandoning  our  present  course  witli 
military  business. 

In  view  of  these  exhibits  that  have  been  put  in  evidenre  here,  I 
think  it  is  a  fair  question  to  ask  who  determines  our  policies  con- 
cerning sales  of  mimitions  to  foreign  governments — the  War 
Department  or  the  du  Pont  Co.  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  It  is  self-evident  that  it  is  the  AVar  Department. 

Senator  Clark.  It  is  not  self-evident  from  the  exhibits  that  have 
been  put  in  evidence,  in  my  opinion. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  don't  think  there  is  any  other  question.  We  stayed 
in  the  powder  business  at  the  direct  request  of  the  War  Department, 
and  at  the  time  this  letter  was  written  here  we  had  been  making 
efforts  to  stay  in  the  business,  with  no  chance  of  getting  any  busi- 
ness from  the  United  States,  every  year  showing  our  results  in  the 
red,  our  own  people  saying,  "  Well,  we  might  as  well  get  out  of  the 
business  ",  and  my  efforts  to  prevent  that  thing  happening.  I  again 
used  the  strongest  terms  I  knew  how  to  try  to  induce  our  people  that 
they  should  stay  in  the  business. 

Senator  Clark.  Major,  it  is  a  fact,  is  it  not,  that  all  of  the  busi- 
ness of  the  du  Pont  Co.,  and  all  of  the  assets,  fundamentally,  are 
based  on  the  powder  business  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Somebody  else  had  better  answer  that. 

Senator  Clark.  I  think  that  was  very  conclusively  shown  in  the 
last  hearing  here  in  September. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  think  that  is  a  true  statement 
today.  Senator. 

Senator  Clark.  I  do  not  mean  that  it  necessarily  is  the  prepon- 
derant part  of  your  business  today,  but  considering  the  business  of 
the  company  fundamentally,  which  I  understand  started  out  as  a 
powder-making  company. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Senator  Clark.  It  has  grown  from  that  and,  in  a  very  large  meas- 
ure, from  the  profits  that  accumulated  during  the  period  of  the 
World  War,  into  its  present  tremendous  position  in  other  activities. 


2708  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  You  are  wrong  in  that  statement  in  respect 
to  the  profits  from  the  war.  That  was  gone  into  quite  thoroughly  at 
an  earlier  hearing. 

Senator  Clark.  I  recall  it  was ;  yes,  sir ;  and  that  is  the  conclusion 
I  drew  from  your  testimony. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  is  true  the  first  hundred-odd  years  of  the 
company's  experience  were  entirely  in  the  powder  business.  Since 
about  1905  the  company  has  branched  out  into  other  industries. 

The  Chairman.  Since  when? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  it  was  about  1905  when  we  first 
started  branching  out. 

The  Chairman.  Did  you  do  any  such  branching  out  at  any  time  as 
you  did  after  the  war,  immediately  after  the  war? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  The  intent  to  branch  out,  I  think,  took  place 
before  the  beginning  of  the  war,  and  certainly  before  the  entry  of 
the  United  States  into  the  war. 

Senator  Clark.  But,  Mr.  du  Pont,  a  great  deal  of  the  branching 
out  that  was  done  was  from  funds  accumulated  from  war  profits  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  No,  sir ;  that  is  not  a  fair  statement. 

Senator  Clark.  Why  is  it  not  a  fair  statement  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Because,  as  explained  in  the  previous  hear- 
ings, there  were  not  enough  profits  from  the  World  War  to  in  any 
substantial  degree  pay  for  the  branching  out  that  has  occurred. 

Senator  Clark.  I  do  not  have  before  me  right  now  the  figures,  but 
what  were  your  figures  of  profit  during  the  World  War  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  At  the  end  of  the  war,  the  World  War,  it 
was  shown  that  there  was  something  like  $60,000,000  of  accumulated 
profits  in  the  company's  treasury. 

Senator  Clark.  And  you  invested  some  $60,000,000  in  the  control 
or  in  the  practical  control  of  General  Motors,  did  you  not  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Some  $50,000,000. 

Senator  Clark.  Some  50  million? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  But  you  must  recall,  Senator,  that  that  was 
only  part 

Senator  Clark.  So  it  would  seem  that  some  of  that  branching  out 
for  the  control,  at  least,  of  the  General  Motors  Co.,  in  general,  was 
from  war  profits. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  But  the  extent  of  the  company  has  gone  to 
$250,000,000  or  $300,000,000. 

Senator  Clark.  But  you  have  had  the  opportunity  of  branching 
out  since. 

Mr.  Lajmmot  du  Pont.  So  I  say  that  the  $60,000,000  is  no  very  con- 
siderable part  of  two  hundred  and  fifty  or  three  hundred  million. 

The  Chairman.  How  near  could  you  have  come  to  the  250  million 
if  you  had  not  first  had  the  60  million  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  That  is  a  question  I  cannot  answer,  because 
that  $250,000,000  was  raised  in  an  entirely  different  manner. 

Senator  Cl.vrk.  Mr.  du  Pont.  I  was  not  present  when  you  went 
into  the  first  ])ait  of  3'our  testimony  before,  and  therefore  I  did  not 
ask  you  to  put  it  in  the  record ;  but  can  you  tell  offhand  or  will  you 
prepare  a  statement  showing  how  much,  if  any,  money  was  owing 
to  the  du  Pont  Co.  from  the  allied  and  associated  nations  or  their 
fiscal  and  purchasing  agents  in  this  country,  such  as  Morgan,  at  the 
time  the  United  States  entered  the  war? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2709 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  That  was  owing  to  the  du  Pont  Co.  ? 

Senator  Clark.  Yes. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  there  was  none,  sir. 

Senator  Clark.  Will  you  investigate  that  and  give  us  that  infor- 
mation ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  am  not  sure  we  can  do  that  right  now. 
If  so,  I  will  be  glad  to. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  can  answer  that  right  off.  The  foreign 
governments  have  always  paid  in  advance,  cash,  on  every  purchase. 
We  owed  them  right  through  the  war.  At  one  time  it  got  up  to 
107  millions ;  it  was  102  millions  at  the  end  of  the  month,  but  in  the 
middle  of  the  month  it  was  107  millions. 

Senator  Clark.  That  was  advance  payments,  where  you  had  not 
delivered  the  ammunition  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Yes;  and  this  money  made  out  of  the  war 
that  you  speak  of,  that  was  foreign  trade. 

Senator  Clark.  Yes. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  There  was  nobody  here  in  this  country  that 
was  taxed  to  get  that.  That  was  all  prohts  brought  to  this  country 
from  foreign  trade.  I  do  not  see  why  you  should  belittle  that.  I 
think  that  shows  that  our  customers  were  extremely  well  satisfied. 
I  think  you  will  find  that  the  French  Government  decorated  Pierre, 
showing  their  appreciation,  and  I  think  we  have  some  letters  show- 
ing further 

The  Chairman.  They  also  decorated  Sir  Basil  Zaharoff. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  don't  know  about  that.  You  are  getting 
in  good  company  now.  But  the  facts  are  that  I  cannot  see  anything 
particularly  wicked  about  having  served  those  people  over  there 
who  later  became  our  allies.  They  were  very  glad  to  get  the  help, 
and  we  made  money  in  doing  it,  and  we  served  them  well.  I  take 
exception  to  your  idea  that  this  is  just  a  bloody  proposition  of  selling 
somebody  else's  life  for  money.     It  is  outrageous. 

Senator  Clark.  Of  course,  Mr.  du  Pont,  you  approach  the  matter 
of  war  from  an  entirely  different  viewpoint  from  that  held  by  a  good 
many  others. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Yes;  perhaps.  You  were  not  in  the  game, 
or  you  might  have  a  different  viewpoint  too. 

Senator  Clark.  I  was  in  the  game,  though,  when  it  came  to  put- 
ting on  a  uniform. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  That  is  quite  true. 

Senator  Clark.  In  other  words,  you  approach  the  subject  of  war 
from  a  viewpoint  that  regards  the  war  as  a  situation  out  of  which 
there  may  be  made  two  or  three  hundred  million  dollars  of  profits 
and  come  out  with  a  whole  hide.  On  the  other  hand,  I  entered  the 
war,  with  three  boys,  without  any  prospect  of  making  any  money 
out  of  it,  but  who  might  be  considered  in  the  position  of  becoming 
cannon  fodder.  Therefore,  we  look  at  it  from  a  diametrically  oppo- 
site viewpoint. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Senator,  you  do  not  abhor  war  any  more 
than  I  do.  I  do  not  care  what  kind  of  a  speech  you  make  to  the 
people  here ;  I  don't  believe  you  abhor  it  any  more  than  I  do.  Now, 
we  did  provide  ammunition  to  foreign  governments.  They  asked 
for  it.  I  think  we  did  a  swell  job.  We  have  now  gone  into  a  num- 
ber of  other  things  which  have  helped  this  country  a  great  deal. 


2710  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Senator  Clark.  Mr.  du  Pont,  we  intend  no  criticism  of  your  peace- 
time activities  unconnected  with  the  manufacture  of  munitions. 
This  inquiry  has  to  do  solely  with  the  manufacture  of  munitions. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Yes;  and  I  am  rather  proud  of  the  part  we 
played  in  it. 

Senator  Clark.  You  have  heard  no  criticism  on  the  part  of  the 
dvi  Pont  company.  That  is  entirely  outside  the  scope  of  this 
investigation. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  That  is  satisfactory. 

Senator  Clark.  But  as  far  as  coming  back  to  the  question  of  the 
financial  relations  with  the  Allies,  I  think  it  is  of  very  great  im- 
portance, because  a  great  many  people  in  this  country,  including 
myself,  as  I  said  the  other  day,  believed  that  the  insistence  of  the 
United  States  in  shipping  munitions  to  one  series  of  combatants 
ultimately  led  us  into  the  war — we  could  not  ship  to  the  others — 
ultimately  led  us  into  the  war,  and,  therefore,  to  the  extent  of 
some  20  billion  dollars,  did  impose  a  tax  on  the  American  people, 
and  therefore  it  is  material,  to  say  the  least,  to  go  into  that  question. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Mr.  Senator,  I  can  conceive  of  a  roundabout 
route  by  which  the  sending  of  munitions  from  this  country  helped 
get  that  country  into  the  war.  It  is  this :  If  we  had  not  sent  those 
munitions  over,  the  foreign  countries  would  have  been  licked,  and 
we  would  never  have  had  a  chance  to  get  into  the  war.  They  would 
have  come  here. 

Senator  Clark.  That  is  purely  a  matter  of  conjecture  on  your 
part.  There  is  no  evidence  whatever  to  show  we  would  have  ever 
entered  in  the  war  or  ever  fired  a  gun  except  for  that  course  of  action. 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator,  what  were  the  munitions,  using  it  now  in  its 
dictionary  sense,  that  were  shipped  to  the  Allies  during  the  war? 

Senator  Clark.  Most  of  them,  or  a  great  many  of  them,  were  guns 
and  explosives.     A  great  many  guns. 

Mr.  Casey.  How  about  wheat? 

Senator  Clark.  I  may  say  as  far  as  I  am  concerned — whether  it 
is  of  interest  to  this  hearing  or  not — as  far  as  I  am  concerned,  I 
believe  that  the  acceptance  by  the  United  States  Government  of  a 
principle  of  international  law  which  had  theretofore  for  more  than  a 
century  been  opposed  by  the  United  States  and  declared  not  to  be 
international  law,  in  the  confiscation  of  the  Dacia^  which  was  loaded 
with  wheat,  had  a  great  deal  to  do  with  involving  the  United  States 
in  the  war. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  We  might  go  back  one  step  further.  Senator. 
Where  would  Washington's  army  have  landed  if  they  had  not  gotten 
munitions  from  abroad  ? 

Senator  Clark.  They  did  not  receive  any  munitions  for  a  good 
deal  of  time. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  They  received  practically  all  of  their  muni- 
tions from  abroad,  made  abroad  and  shipped  over  here.  What  would 
Washington  have  done  without  powder?     There  was  none  here. 

Senator  Clark.  A  good  deal  that  he  got  he  took  away  from  the 
British. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  How  did  he  get  it  away  from  them?  He 
had  to  have  munitions  to  get  it  from  them,  didn't  he  ? 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2711 

The  Chairman.  Coming  back  to  the  subject  of  wheat  for  a  moment, 
was  there  any  legislation  fixing  what  you  could  charge  for  powder 
or  the  munitions  that  were  manufactured  during  the  war? 

Mr.  Casey.  There  was  a  matter  of  common  sense.  The  Allies 
knew  enough  about  values  to  such  an  extent  that  they  did  not  come 
over  here  prepared  to  pay  anything  that  the  American  manufacturers 
might  ask.  They  realized  that  production  in  this  country,  because 
of  the  fact  we  were  absolutely  unprepared  to  handle^  anything  of 
this  sort — I  am  referring  to  plenty  of  things  besides  just  ordnance 
material  now — they  realized,  as  I  just  stated,  that  we  were  not  pre- 
pared to  turn  things  out  on  the  same  economical  basis,  you  might  say, 
that  they  felt  they  were  in  Europe.  But  at  the  same  time  I  might 
give  3^ou  one  instance.  There  was  one  man  came  over  here  to  nego- 
tiate a  contract  for  the  British.  This  was  before  the  whole  proposi- 
tion of  purchase  was  turned  over  to  Morgan.  He  promptly  nego- 
tiated. About  a  year  after  that  Colonel  Buckner  in  this  man's 
presence  happened  to  say  that  when  we  established  the  price  of  $1 
a  pound,  which  was  the  price  in  the  early  stages  of  the  war,  we  felt 
that  that  was  a  fair  price,  and  this  man  replied,  "  You  may  have 
thought  you  were  doing  good  business,  but  I  came  over  here  prepared 
to  pay  $2  a  pound." 

Senator  Clark.  That  meant.  Major,  that  you  thought  you  were 
charging  all  that  the  traffic  could  bear,  and  found  out  that  you 
were  not? 

Mr.  Casey.  We  thought  we  were*  charging  him  what  we  were  jus- 
tified in  charging  the  Allies  for  an  expansion  in  raw  material  and 
an  amortization  of  the  new  facilities  that  we  had  to  provide.  The 
very  first  contract  took  our  entire  capacity.  That  was  the  French. 
In  the  meantime,  Mitsui  &  Co.  acting  as  purchasing  agent  for  the 
Russian  Government,  had  started  their  negotiations  before  the 
French,  but  they  were  so  long  in  agreeing  to  terms,  especially  regard- 
ing advance  payments,  that  while  they  were  communicating  back 
and  forth  with  the  Russian  Government,  France  came  in  and 
promptly  took  it  without  any  question. 

Senator  Clark.  Dr.  Sparre,  did  you  have  a  correction  that  you 
wanted  to  make  ? 

Dr.  Sparre.  Yes,  Senator  Clark. 

At  this  morning's  session  you  asked  Mr.  Casey  a  couple  of  ques- 
tions that  he  could  not  answer  because  it  was  not  in  his  department. 
One  of  3^our  questions  was  about  some  correspondence  with  a  Jap- 
anese firm  about  the  ammonia  oxidation  process  for  the  manufacture 
of  nitric  acid. 

I  explained  last  week,  when  you  were  not  here.  Senator  Clark, 
that  that  process  was  published  in  three  American  and  Canadian 
technical  journals  during  the  years  1927-31.  Therefore,  it  was  no 
secret. 

In  the  second  place,  nitric  acid  is  used  to  the  extent  of  about  98 
percent  for  commercial  purposes,  and,  therefore,  cannot  be  classified 
as  ammunition.    And,  finally,  we  did  not  make  the  sale,  anyhow. 

Your  second  question  was  in  regard  to  a  hydrogen  process  which 
was  sold  to  the  Japanese,  that  being  one  step  in  the  production  of 
synthetic  ammonia.  There  are  several  processes  in  the  manufacture 
of  synthetic  ammonia.    We  have  one,  and  this  was  one  step.    How- 


2712  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

ever,  we  figured,  out  that — it  is  pretty  hard  to  get  the  exact  statistics, 
but  in  the  different  countries  anywhere  from  75  to  95  percent  of  the 
ammonia  goes  into  fertilizer,  and  certainly  some  99  percent  of  the 
ammonia  goes  into  commercial  products. 

Furthermore,  as  regards  Japan,  they  probably  use  over  90  percent 
of  ammonia  in  fertilizer.  But  even  if  you  consider  it  on  a  war  basis, 
it  is  estimated  that  in  times  of  war  Japan  will  probably  require 
about  100,000  tons  of  ammonia  annually  or  nitrogen  annually  for 
munitions.  Japan  at  that  time  had  a  capacity  of  270,000  tons.  In 
other  words,  they  had  almost  three  times  the  capacity  already  of 
what  they  needed  in  time  of  war  for  munitions.  It  must,  therefore, 
be  a  commercial  proposition.  At  this  time  they  have  a  capacity  even 
higher. 

So  I  do  not  think,  Senator  Clark,  that  either  one  of  those  two  prop- 
ositions can  be  classified  as  munitions. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Senator,  might  I  say  a  word  in  regard  to  one 
or  two  things  in  regard  to  the  purchases  from  the  du  Pont  Co.  On 
March  31,  1917,  which  was  about  a  week  before  the  United  States 
entered  the  war,  we  had  money  of  the  foreign  governments  of 
$40,248,000.  At  the  same  time  we  had  on  our  books  unpaid  invoices 
owing  by  the  foreign  governments  of  $5,886,000,  or  a  net  difference 
of  $35,562,000. 

Senator  Clark.  That  was  represented  by  advance  payments? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  was  advance  payments  we  held  at 
that  time,  which  was  a  week  bef  oi*e  we  went  into  the  war. 

In  regard  to  exports,  I  made  a  brief  tabulation  a  few  days  ago 
as  to  the  increased  value  of  exports  of  wheat,  flour,  bacon  or  hams, 
cotton  and  copper,  sent  abroad  during  the  war  years  1915  to  1918, 
inclusive.  That  advance  price  over  1914  values  was  $1,500,000,000, 
just  the  advance  price  in  those  five  commodities,  and  those  are  all 
war  essentials,  of  course.  The  increase  in  exports  was  due  undoubt- 
edly to  war  conditions,  because  the  exports  fell  off  very  shortly  after 
the  war. 

That  shows  the  magnitude  of  this  most  essential  munition — f  ood— 
in  the  event  of  war,  and  if  there  is  any  attempt  to  stop  war  by  pre- 
venting shipments,  the  food  situation  is  the  one  to  tackle. 

Senator  Clark.  I  agree  with  you  that  that  is  one  situation  to 
tackle. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  It  certainly  is.  It  is  the  main  one,  because 
the  quickest  means  of  ending  a  war  would  be  to  stop  food  supplies. 

Senator  Clark.  I  do  not  think  the  history  of  the  world  will  show 
an  instance,  Mr.  du  Pont,  in  which  the  probability  of  war  between 
nations  has  been  increased  by  nations  building  up  reserves  of  food 
supplies.  In  other  words,  there  has  never  been  a  competitive  race 
in  food  supplies  as  there  has  been  a  competitive  race  in  armaments. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  am  not  so  sure  about  that. 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator,  the  very  minute  any  nation  begins  to  throw 
in  storage  food  supplies  it  is  a  warning  to  the  world  they  are 
expecting  something. 

Now,  you  have  made  certain  tactical  studies  as  an  officer,  and  you 
know  in  the  general  art  of  soldiering  that  of  the  four  branches  of 
military  science  that  one  is  the  all-important  consideration. 

Senator  Clark.  That  is  all  true,  but  did  you  ever  hear  of  an  in- 
stance where  one  nation  regarded  it  as  an  unfriendly  act  for  another 
nation  to  be  accumulating  food? 


MUNITIONS    INDLTSTRY  2713' 

Mr.  Casey.  They  may  not  call  it  an  unfriendly  act,  but  it  is  a 
definite  warning  to  them. 

Senator  Clark.  But  you  do  know  of  many  instances  where  the 
building  of  battleships  or  the  laying  in  of  a  great  store  of  munitions 
has  been  considered  an  unfriendly  act,  don't  you  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  No;  I  would  put  it  this  way:  That  a  nation  can  refer 
to  an  increase  in  the  accumulation  of  munitions  and  make  an  awful 
lot  of  fuss  about  it,  but  the  nation  importing  foodstuffs  can  always 
give  a  good  alibi. 

Mr,  Raushenbush.  I  would  like  to  get  this  proposition  a  little 
more  definitely  as  to  what  Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont  said  and  we  want  you 
to  state  it  as  a  company  proposition,  if  you  will.  Is  it  your  propo- 
sition that  this  committee  might  as  well  investigate  the  food  industry 
as  the  munitions  industry  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Not  at  all.  I  am  not  trying  to  dictate  to 
the  committee  at  all  as  to  what  to  do. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Are  you  putting  them  on  a  par  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  just  mean  to  call  attention  to  the  impor- 
tance of  food  supplies  in  connection  with  war  activities. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  And  to  minimize  in  the  course  of  the  compari- 
son the  importance  of  munitions  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Munitions  are  very  important,  but  I  claim 
that  food  supplies  are  just  as  much  a  munition  as  powder,  and  a  much 
more  important  one.  But  don't  you  think  that  is  for  the  committee 
to  decide?     I  don't  pretend  to  be  dictating  to  the  committee. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Are  you  asking  the  committee  to  go  into  the 
situation,  that  situation,  as  a  means  of  control  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Not  at  all. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Not  at  all? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  have  no  right  to.  It  is  not  my  province 
to  do  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  am  trying  to  get  straight  just  on  this  food 
matter  that  was  brought  in  here.  If  it  is  your  company's  opinion 
that  food  is  equally  important  with  munitions,  that  certainly  is  a 
matter  to  take  under  advisement,  as  coming  from  you.  But  if  the 
proposition  is  not  made  or  is  withdrawn,  I  am  glad  to  hear  that. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  am  very  glad  that  you  did  not  ask  that 
question.     I  am  not  trying  to  dictate  to  them. 

Senator,  might  I  say  just  one  word  on  the  question  of  the  entry 
of  the  du  Pont  Co.  into  the  war,  as  a  matter  that  has  always  inter- 
ested me  very  much,  as  I  was  very  largely  responsible  for  the  accept- 
ance of  that  first  French  order  which  really  started  the  du  Pont  Co. 
in  furnishing  powder  to  the  Allies. 

I  remember  discussing  with  Colonel  Buckner  very  carefully  as  to 
whether  the  du  Pont  Co.  should  or  should  not  accept  the  responsi- 
bility of  that  order.  It  meant  the  use  of  our  entire  military  powder 
factory,  necessitating  the  immediate  building  of  another  one  to  dupli- 
cate it  in  order  to  take  care  of  our  obligations  to  the  United  States. 

There  was  a  great  question  of  responsibility  there,  as  to  whether 
we  should  go  on  or  not,  and  it  was  followed  immediately  by  an  equal 
responsibility,  almost,  in  accepting  British  orders.  During  the 
winter  of  1914  and  1915,  and  the  spring  of  1915,  there  was  very 
active  consideration  of  this  question  of  the  shipment  of  powder  by 

83876— 35— PT  12 6 


2714  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Congress.  It  was  a  very  serious  question  in  our  affairs,  because  of 
our  commitments  to  the  Allies,  the  question  of  whether  we  would  be 
permitted  to  ship  or  not.  Congress — I  don't  know  how  they  decided 
the  question — decided  not  to  stop  the  shipments  of  munitions  or  the 
shipment  of  powder  and  a  great  many  other  things. 

Senator  Clark.  That  is  very  true. 

Mr.  Casey.  There  was  an  embargo,  Mr.  du  Pont,  in  the  beginning. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  It  lasted  a  very  short  time. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes ;  about  a  month  and  a  half.  But  I  know  we  were 
not  even  permitted  to  ship  an  order  to  the  Dominion  Cartridge  Co. 
in  Canada  because  of  that  embargo,  which  was  a  proposition  for  a 
little  .22  short.  The  embargo  was  so  stringent  that  we  were  not  even 
permitted  to  ship  .22  powder. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  cannot  see,  Senator,  a  time  from  the  day 
we  accepted  that  French  order  to  the  end  of  the  war  when  the 
du  Pont  Co.  could  have  deliberately  said  we  would  ship  no  more 
munitions.  We  would  not  have  been  upheld  by  public  opinion, 
certainly  not  abroad,  nor  in  the  United  States? 

Senator  Clark.  Mr.  du  Pont,  so  far  as  the  matter  of  shipping 
munitions  during  the  war  is  concerned,  I  want  you  to  understand 
me  about  that.  I  am  not  intimating,  and  certainly  not  asserting, 
that  there  was  anything  illegal  about  it  or  anything  improper  about 
it.  I  am  going  to  the  question  of  national  policy.  As  I  see  it,  the 
shipment  of  munitions  of  various  kinds  during  the  war  to  one  set 
of  combatants  had  a  very  material,  and  you  might  say,  lasting  effect 
on  the  well  being  and  the  history  of  the  United  States.  We  are  not 
undertaking  now  to  fix  the  responsibility  or  blame  for  what  happened 
during  the  World  War.  We  are  trying  to  arrive  at  a  picture  of  this 
situation  with  regard  to  the  future  of  wars  and  the  future  conduct 
of  the  United  States. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  is  certainly  the  right  way  to  look  at  it. 

Senator  Clark.  I  am  not  intimating  at  all  that  there  was  anything 
improper  in  any  munitions  manufacturer  in  the  United  States  under 
the  policy  permitted  by  the  Government  in  the  then  state  of  the  law 
making  shipments  of  munitions  abroad,  but  I  do  think  it  had  very 
grave  consequences  to  the  United  States. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  am  very  glad  to  hear  you  say  what  you 
have,  because  I  gathered  from  you  that  you  did  think  that  we  did 
some  improper  act,  not  illegal  act,  in  having  furnished  munitions, 
that  it  would  have  been  better  if  we  had  not  done  it. 

Senator  Clark.  No  ;  I  said  that  in  connection  with  the  question  of 
the  du  Pont  Co.  going  out  of  the  powder  business.  It  was  intimated 
here  a  while  ago  that  the  du  Pont  Co.  was  conferring  a  very  great 
favor  on  the  United  States  by  remaining  in  the  powder  business. 
Now,  it  is  a  fact  that  as  a  result  of  the  war  business,  in  the  period  of 
4  years,  as  reflected  in  the  stock-market  quotations,  say,  of  the  du 
Pont  Co.,  that  stock  went  up  from  $20  a  share,  on  the  basis  of  the 
issue  as  it  then  was,  to  about  a  thousand  dollars  a  share;  isn't  that 
correct  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  is  correct ;  yes. 

Senator  Clark.  So  I  say  as  to  the  du  Pont  Co. — I  am  not  casting 
any  reflections  on  the  motives  of  the  du  Pont  Co.  and  their  record 
and  the  relationship  of  their  dealings  with  the  United  States  Gov- 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2715 

^rninent — but  I  do  say  to  a  very  large  extent  the  prosperity  of  the 
du  Pont  Co.  has  been  built  on  the  powder  business. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  hardly  think  you  are  right  there.  The  ex- 
pansion of  the  du  Pont  Co.  before  the  war  was  brought  about  through 
the  manufacture  of  powder,  but  not  military  powder. 

Senator  Clark.  You  had  manufactured  all  kinds  of  powder. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes;  but  military  powder  has  been  a  very 
small  part. 

Senator  Clark.  And  the  great  expanse  in  the  assets  and  business 
of  the  du  Pont  Co.  did  take  place  during  the  war  and  as  a  result  of 
the  war. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  The  great  expansion  that  took  place  in  the 
du  Pont  Co.  was  through  the  institution  of  the  making  of  dynamite 
in  this  country.     That  is  where  the  great  growth  started,  in  1880. 

Senator  Clark.  There  was  a  tremendous  growth  following  1914  in 
the  assets  and  business  of  the  company. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  There  certainly  was. 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator  Clark,  just  suppose  the  United  States  had 
continued  this  embargo  I  referred  to.  I  think  the  end  of  the  war 
would  have  been  very  soon,  because  it  would  have  really  meant  that 
the  United  States  in  refusing  to  sell  to  the  Allies  automatically  be- 
came an  ally  of  Germany. 

Senator  Clark.  Why  is  that,  any  more  than  it  applies  to  selling 
to  the  Allies? 

Mr.  Caset.  The  Germans  were  supplied  and  the  Allies  were  not, 
although  they  thought  they  were. 

Senator  Clark.  We  simply  would  not  have  become  an  ally  of  the 
Allies,  by  not  assuming  a  position  of  contributing  to  their  prepared- 
ness. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  am  saying  if  the  embargo  which  was  first  put  into 
effect  by  Secretary  of  State  Bryan 

Senator  Clark.  We  certainly  would  not  have  been  an  ally  of  Ger- 
many. 

Mr.  Casey.  We  would  have  been  helping  them. 

Senator  Clark.  By  simply  attending  to  our  own  business? 

Mr.  Casey.  And  that  would  have  been  helping  Germany.  At  the 
time  of  the  Japan-China  fracas  around  Shanghai,  I  think  England — 
I  saw  this  in  the  press,  which  is  my  only  source  of  information—' 
when  they  jDut  that  embargo  on  against  both — in  other  words,  the 
Chinese  criticized  them  because  they  said  by  putting  an  embargo 
against  both  they  were  in  reality  helping  Japan. 

Senator  Clark.  That  may  have  been  the  Chinese  opinion, 

Mr.  Casey.  And  I  think  it  was  justified.  Japan  had  plenty  of 
arms  for  a  proposition  of  that  sort. 

Senator  Clark.  We  were  under  no  obligation,  either  by  treaty, 
moral  implication,  or  anything  else,  to  assist  the  Allies  or  anybody 
else  by  shipping  munitions  to  them,  if  we  desired  to  avoid  entangle- 
ments by  not  doing  it. 

Mr.  Casey.  We  were  under  obligations  the  minute  we  announced 
our  principle  of  neutrality. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  was  the  claim  we  made  during  the 
Civil  War,  that  it  was  an  inimical  act  on  the  part  of  England  to 
refuse  exportation  of  material  to  this  country. 


2716  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Senator  Clark.  It  was  certainly  not  an  inimical  act,  if  we  refused! 
to  ship  to  anybody. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  We  claimed  it  was  then. 

Senator  Clark.  I  am  not  familiar  with  that.  We  may  have  made 
such  a  claim. 

The  Chairman.  Mr.  du  Pont,  how  large  a  force  is  employed  in 
the  production  of  powder  in  your  plant  at  this  time  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  You  mean  all  kinds  of  powder  ? 

The  Chairman.  No. 

Mr.  Casey.  Smokeless  powder — military  powder. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  About  300  men,  I  think. 

The  Chairman.  What  part  of  those  300  men  are  ordinary  laborers,, 
and  what  part  are  experts  who  are  contributing  to  the  progress  and 
development  of  gunpowder? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Of  course,  there  are  all  degrees  of  experts. 
I  think  Mr.  Bradway  can  answer  that  more  accurately. 

The  Chairman.  Mr.  Bradway. 

TESTIMONY  OF  F.  W.  BRADWAY 

(The  witness  had  been  previously  sworn  by  the  chairman.) 

The  Chairman.  Did  you  hear  the  question,  Mr.  Bradway? 

Mr.  Bradway.  I  think  I  understood  what  you  said. 

The  Chairman.  The  question  was,  What  part  of  the  estimated 
300  employees  in  the  production  of  powder  is  composed  of  experts 
who  will  contribute  to  the  improvement  and  development  of  powder?" 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Senator,  may  I  just  ask  Mr.  Bradway  if" 
he  will  check  that  300  figure  ? 

The  Chairman.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Bradway.  The  300  is  approximately  correct  at  the  present 
time.  I  do  not  know  that  it  is  just  exactly  300,  but  right  around  it.. 
I  think  that  those  people  who  are  doing  research  work  are  probably 
about  25, 

The  Chairman.  Twenty-five  in  the  research  department? 

Mr.  Bradway.  Yes,  sir.  Then  we  have  our  plant  experts,  the 
superintendents  and  their  managerial  assistants,  who  are  expert 
powder  makers.    There  are  probably  10  or  15  of  those. 

The  Chairman.  All  in  all,  how  many  whom  you  consider  experts 
who  would  be  indispensable  in  carrying  on  the  manufacture  of 
gunpowder  in  a  progressive  way? 

Mr.  Bradway.  I  should  consider  all  our  managerial  force  and  our 
research  men  indispensable. 

The  Chairman.  Let  us  see  if  we  can  get  at  it  another  way.  What 
part  of  the  300  are  now  ordinary-type  laborers  who  can  be  substi- 
tuted for  in  a  week  or  in  a  month  ? 

Senator  Barbour.  Easily  replaced. 

Mr.  Bradway.  I  know  what  you  mean.  I  was  trying  to  figure 
how  many  there  would  be  of  that  type.    Perhaps  one-half  of  them. 

The  Chairman.  About  one-half  of  them? 

Mr.  Bradavay.  We  have  skilled  labor  there  which  is  equally  as 
hard  to  replace  as  the  managerial  labor  or  research  labor,  you  might 
say.  At  the  time  of  expansion  those  skilled  laborers  really  become 
foremen  or,  in  a  sense,  supervisors  of  lines  for  training  other  men.. 

The  Chairman.  Late  in  October  the  committee  requested  of  the 
Secretary  of  tlie  Treasury  a  s-tatement  showing  appropriations  and 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2717 

-.expenditures  from  appropriations  for  the  War  and  Navy  Depart- 
ments, and  a  statement  showing  allotments  by  Public  Works  Admin- 
istration of  funds  for  the  War  and  Navy  Departments,  and 
■expenditures  from  these  allotments  during  the  fiscal  year  of  1934. 

In  response  to  that  inquiry  the  committee  is  today  in  receipt  of 
three  exhibits,  which  the  chair  asks  to  have  incorporated  in  the  rec- 
ord, along  with  the  accompanying  letter.  Incidentally,  exhibit  no.  2 
reveals  that  there  has  been  an  allotment  of  Public  Works  funds  for 
the  War  and  Navy  Departments  of  approximately  $722,000,000. 

Let  the  exhibits  be  properly  marked  and  entered  in  the  record. 

(The  letter  accompanying  the  Treasury  Department  exhibits  was 
marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1027  "  and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on 
p.  2833.)^ 

(The  Treasury  Department  exhibit  showing  allotments  by  the 
Public  Works  Administration  for  the  War  and  Navy  Departments 
•during  1934  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1028  "  and  is  included  in 
the  appendix  on  p.  2834.)^ 

(The  Treasury  Department  exhibit  showing  appropriations  and 
expenditures  for  the  War  and  Navy  Departments  from  1912  to  1914 
was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1029  "  and  is  included  in  the  appendix 
■on  p.  2835.)^ 

The  Chairman.  Senator  Pope,  I  think  you  are  wanting  in  your 
examination  to  hear  Major  Casey,  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont,  Mr.  Lammot 
du  Pont,  and  Mr.  Beebe. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  May  I  ask  a  question  about  the  exhibits  to 
which  you  referred.  Senator? 

The  Chairman.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  In  the  War  Department,  does  it  include  the 
rivers  and  harbors  work? 

The  Chairman.  Yes,  sir ;  something  over  $200,000,000  of  that  total 
was  for  river  and  harbor  work. 

attitude    of    du    PONT    CO.    TOWARD    EMBARGOES    AND    LEGISLATION 
REGARDING  EMBARGOES 

Senator  Pope.  Mr.  Casey,  the  testimony  which  has  been  given  in 
the  hearing  has  been  directed,  or  some  of  it,  to  the  proposition  as  to 
whether  the  history  of  the  world  since  the  World  War  shows  that 
the  imposition  of  embargoes  has  generally  helped  or  hindered  the 
movement  toward  peace? 

In  the  former  hearing  there  was  something  about  the  question  of 
proposals  and  methods  showing  the  views  of  the  du  Pont  Co.^ 

For  instance,  I  will  read  a  portion  of  the  testimony  giving  your 
statements  in  order  that  we  may  get  the  activities  and  attitude  of 
your  company  with  reference  to  embargo  proposals  [reading]  : 

Senator  Pope.  I  will  ask  you,  Mr.  Casey,  whetlier  or  not  it  is  the  duty  or 
business  of  Mr.  Simons  to  contact  oflScials  in  the  War  Department  with  refer- 
ence to  legislative  matters? 


■'"Exhibits  Nos.    1027,   1028,    and    1029"   were   entered   into   further   in   tlie   testimony 
..-of  December  13,  1934,  Hearings,  Part  XIII. 
^Hearings,  Part  V,  pp.  1125  and  1126. 


2718  MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 

Mr.  Simons  is  employed  by  the  du  Pont  Co.  in  your  department? 
Mr.  Casey.  He  was.     He  is  practically  retired.     He  is  on  leave  of 
absence  right  now  for  a  year  on  account  of  ill  health. 
Senator  Pope.  The  question  was : 

*  *  *  whether  or  not  it  is  the  duty  or  business  of  Mr.  Simons  to  con- 
tact officials  in  the  War  Department  with  refei'ence  to  legislative  matters? 

ilr.  Casey.  Absolutely  not.     We  take  no  part  whateA'er  in  legislative  matters.. 

Senator  Pope.  You  are  sure  of  that? 

Mr.  Casetst.  I  am  talking  for  my  department. 

Senator  Pope.  What  about  the  other  departments? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  cannot  speak  for  them. 

Senator  Pope.  Were  you  about  to  say  something,  Mr.  Felix  du  Pont? 

Mr.  A.  Feltx  du  Pont.  No,  sir. 

Senator  Pope.  I  refer  you  to  a  memorandum  signed  by  Mr.  Aiken  Simmons 
under  date  of  January  17,  1933,  Wihnington,  Del.,  and  dated  Washington,  D.  C.,- 
January  16,  1933,  it  having  these  two  dates  on  it,  and  I  will  read  the  fii-st 
paragraph  of  that  memorandum  as  follows : 

and  then  I  read  part  of  this  memorandum. 

I  might  say,  this  is  from  page  1125  of  the  record.^ 

Mr.  Casey.  What  is  the  date? 

Senator  Pope.  It  was  early  in  the  hearing,  Major  Casey.  I  do 
not  have  the  date  here. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  mean  the  date  of  the  hearing,  but  the  date 
of  the  memorandum. 

Senator  Pope.  January  16  or  17. 

Mr.  Casey.  January  17,  1933.     All  right. 

Senator  Pope  (reading)  : 

The  principal  object  of  this  visit  was  to  discuss  with  the  War  Department 
officials  a  bill  now  pending  in  the  United  States  Senate  authorizing  the  Presi- 
dent to  declare  at  his  discretion  an  embargo  on  the  shipment  of  munitions  to 
foreign  countries.  The  details  of  this  visit  are  covered  in  a  separate  memo- 
randum. 

Then  I  asked  you  [reading]  : 

Did  you  ever  see  tins  memorandum? 

Mr.  Casey.  This  one,  yes. 

Senator  Pope.  Were  you  famijiar  with  its  contents? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Pope.  What  would  you  say  as  to  that  first  paragraph  I  have  read 
discussing  the  visit  of  Mr.  Simons  to  the  War  Department  to  discuss  this 
matter  of  an  embargo? 

Mr.  Casey.  It  was  perfectly  natural  we  should  discuss  with  the  War  Depart- 
ment to  find  out  what  their  attitude  was  as  affecting  the  national  defense. 

Senator  Pope.  Then  I  misunderstood  you  a  minute  ago  when  you  said  Mr. 
Simons  and  no  one  else  of  your  department  discussed  with  the  War  Depart- 
ment officials  legislation  of  this  kind? 

Mr.  Casey.  Anything  attempting  to  influence  legislation  is  what  I  meant. 

Senator  Pope.  You  did  not  understand  this  embargo  was  passed. 

Mr.  Casey.  We  asked  them  what  was  their  position.  When  the  War  Depart- 
ment or  the  Navy  Department  say  they  have  no  objection,  then  we  have  none. 
But  if  they  feel  it  would  hurt  nntionnl  defense,  then  our  position  might  be 
entirely  different. 

Now,  in  answer  to  that  first  question,  you  said  [reading]  : 

We  take  no  pait  whatevei-  in  legislative  matters. 

And  in  this  answer  you  say  [reading]  : 

But  if  they  feel  it  would  hurt  national  defense,  then  our  position  might  be 
entirely  different. 


'Hearings,  Part  V,  pp.  1120  and  1126. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2719 

Mr.  Casey,  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Pope.  I'he  question  which  I  want  to  ask  there  is  this:  I 
would  infer  from  your  last  answer  that  if  the  officials  of  the  War 
and  Navy  Departments  do  have  objections  on  the  ground  of  national 
defense,  "you  would  then  be  active,  or  feel  at  liberty  to  be  active, 
against  such  legislation? 

Mr.  Casey.  No;  that  is  not  the  intent  of  the  answer.  I  simply 
meant  our  viewpoint.  Our  viewpoint  heretofore  has  been  this :  that 
we  were  in  the  business  as  long  as  the  Army  and  Navy  wanted  us  to 
be  in  the  business. 

Senator  Pope.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is  because  they  say  they  want  us  in  the  interest 
of  national  defense.  If  they  say  that  they  are  opposed  to  the  em- 
bargo because  it  may  affect  the  national  defense,  then  we  feel  that 
they  are  going  to  attempt  to  keep  us  in  the  business  as  long  as  they 
consider  us  a  part  of  the  national  defense. 

Senator  Pope.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Casey.  Now,  if  they  said,  "  No;  we  are  not  going  to  fight  this 
embargo  ",  then  we  would  begin  to  look  into  our  own  house  and 
say,  "  if  this  embargo  goes  through,  with  some  of  the  provisions,  it 
puts  us  out  of  business,  and  we  might  as  well  know  it  now  so  that 
we  can  begin  to  cut  our  cloth  accordingly. 

Senator  Pope.  In  any  event,  whether  the  Army  or  Navy  officials 
oppose  the  embargo  on  the  ground  of  national  defense  or  for  an- 
other reason,  you  take  no  action  in  legislative  matters? 

Mr.  Casey.  Absolutely  not.  One  of  the  first  things  which  I  de- 
cided on  when  I  first  had  charge  of  military  sales  was,  at  no  time 
was  I  going  to  have  a  part  in  it,  so  that  anybody  could  at  any  time 
say  we  were  trying  to  use  politics,  political  influence,  in  any  way, 
in  legislative  matters. 

Senator  Pope.  In  other  words,  keep  perfectly  clear  of  any  effort 
whatever  to  influence  legislative  action  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is  the  idea. 

Senator  Pope.  All  right.    We  will  go  on. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Senator,  may  I  interject  there  a  moment? 

Senator  Pope.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  am  not  questioning  the  propriety  of 
Major  Casey's  statement  to  you,  but  I  think  if  you  put  a  certain 
interpretation  on  the  phrase  "  taking  part  in  legislative  matters  ", 
that  the  answer  becomes  incorrect. 

Senator  Pope.  In  what  way,  Mr.  du  Pont  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  We  have  given  your  committee  our  views 
on  munition  matters.  Your  purpose  is  to  prepare  legislation.  We 
have,  therefore,  taken  a  part  in  legislative  matters  by  the  letter 
which  we  addressed  to  Senator  Nye  and 

Senator  Pope.  Yes;  but  what  I  mean  is,  you  now  say,  or  Major 
Casey  says,  that  it  is  the  policy  of  your  company 

Mr.  Casey.  On  military  sales. 

Senator  Pope  (continuing).  To  use  no  influence,  exert  no  efforts, 
engage  in  no  activities,  with  the  desire  to  influence  legislation  to 
impose  an  embargo  or  any  other  legislation  affecting  the  shipment 
of  munitions. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  My  position  is  that  the  answer  may  be 
right  or  wrong  depending  on  what  interpretation  you  put  on  that 


.2720  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

phrase  "  taking  no  part  in  legislative  matters."  We  certainly  have 
been  active  at  times  in  expressing  our  views  to  Members  of  Con- 
gress on  legislative  matters,  or  matters  which  may  become  the  sub- 
ject of  legislation.  Our  letter  to  Senator  Nye  is  one.  The  confer- 
ence with  the  representatives  of  the  du  Pont  Co.  regarding  the 
Geneva  conference  was  another. 

Senator  Pope.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  We  certainly  expressed  our  views  at  that 
hearing,  which  may  be  said  to  be  a  legislative  matter. 

Senator  Pope.  And  in  conference  with  your  Senators  and  Repre- 
sentatives in  Congress  when  a  measure  that  arises  affects  your 
interest  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes;  we  express  our  views  freely  and  as 
forcefully  as  we  can. 

Senator  Pope.  That  would  be  "certainly  a  modification  of  Mr. 
Casey's  answer. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  was  speaking  for  my  own  department  only.  We 
have  produced  evidence  of  that  before. 

Senator  Pope.  We  will  go  on. 

Following  the  evidence  given,  in  order  to  establish  our  basis  here, 
I  read: 

Senator  Pope.  In  that  connection  I  call  your  attention  to  the  memorandum 
which  Mr.  Simons  referred  to  in  that  letter.  It  is  dated  Wilmington.  Del., 
January  17,  1933,  and  marked  "  Confidential  memorandum  to  Maj.  K.  K.  V. 
Casey,  director,  proposed  embargo  on  shipment  of  munitions  ",  and  it  states : 

"  Colonel  Taylor  in  his  P-2544  of  December  28,  which  was  his  annual  report 
for  the  year,  made  some  very  interesting  comments  on  the  effect  of  disarma- 
ment in  Europe.  This  was  exti'acted  in  a  memorandum  dated  January  13, 
addressed  to  you,  and  suflicient  copies  prepared  so  that  they  could  be  handed 
to  interested  officials  in  Washington." 

This  memorandum  referred  to  there,  Mr.  Casey,  had  to  do,  did  it 
not,  with  the  discussion  of  the  effect  of  embargoes  in  general  in 
Europe  and  the  probable  effect  of  future  embargoes? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  think  it  did ;  and  at  the  time  I  said  I  was  not 
prepared  to  answer  unless  I  had  the  memorandum  of  January  13 
referred  to.  That  memorandum  was  read  into  the  record  last  week, 
either  Friday  or  Thursday,  and  on  which,  if  you  will  refer  back  to 
those  dates,  you  will  find  where  the  extract  from  that  letter  was  read 
into  the  record.     I  have  a  copy  of  it  right  here. 

Senator  Pope.  Yes ;  but  the  memorandum  did  deal  with  the  matter 
of  embargoes  in  Europe  and  the  probable  effect  of  future  embargoes. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  think  it  had  that  effect  at  all. 

Senator  Pope.  The  one  which  I  examined  did. 

Mr.  Casey.  Here  is  a  copj'^  of  the  letter  of  January  17.  Attached 
to  this  is  a  copy  of  the  memorandum  of  January  13  referred  to. 

Senator  Pope.  Wliat  does  that  memorandum  relate  to  there? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  will  ask  somebody  else  to  read  it,  if  you  do  not  mind. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  This  refers  to  the  Geneva  Conference.  Shall 
I  read  the  letter? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  you  better. 

Senator  Pope.  That  must  be  the  wrong  memorandum  then,  because 
the  one  I  have  reference  to  is  the  one  referred  to  in  the  former  testi- 
mony having  to  do  with  embargoes. 

Mr.  Casey.  This  is  the  only  memorandum  referred  to. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2721 

Now,  the  fact  of  the  matter  is,  Senator,  that  I  have  attached  here 
Colonel  Taylor's  complete  report,  which  I  would  like  to  show  you. 
There  is  the  complete  annual  report,  and  you  will  find  right  here — 
this  is  a  general  discussion  of  Europe — but  you  come  to  this  point 
and  there  are  two  little  red  marks  ending  here  [indicating] . 

It  was  that  part  of  Taylor's  report  which  is  in  this  memorandum 
of  January  13. 

Senator  Pope.  Let  us  go  on  and  perhaps  we  can  clear  this  up  a 
little  later  as  to  which  memorandum  it  was. 

Then  I  asked  you  before,  in  the  former  testimony  [reading]  : 

Did  you  kuow  about  the  preparation  of  that  memorandum  by  Mr.  Aiken 
Simons  and  its  being  handed  to  the  oflacials  of  the  War  Department? 

Mr.  Caset.  I  believe  tliat  was  an  extract  from  Colonel  Taylor's  letter.  He 
was  giving  his  report  on  the  European  reactions. 

Senator  Pope.  What  was  the  nature  of  those  European  reactions'? 

Mr.  Casey.  Regarding  the  effect  of  an  embargo. 

Senator  Pope.  Meaning  an  embargo  already  in  force? 

Mr.  Caset.  No  ;  the  effect  of  a  possible  embargo.  We  take  no  action  regard- 
ing whether  legislation  is  passed  or  not,  but  we  simply  want  to  know  what 
the  effect  would  be. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Pope.  Your  answers  there  indicated  the  nature  of  the 
memorandum. 

Mr.  Casey.  At  the  time  I  made  those  answers,  of  course,  I  did  not 
have  that  memorandum  of  the  13th  in  front  of  me.  It  was  not 
available  at  the  time.    It  had  not  been  taken  from  our  records. 

Senator  Pope.  We  will  attempt  to  clear  that  up  before  we  get 
through  with  the  examination,  and  I  think  we  can. 

Now,  I  call  your  attention  to  an  exhibit  under  date  of  April  7, 
1932,  signed  by  Colonel  Simons,  dated  at  Wilmington,  Del.,  and  I 
will  just  read  this  paragraph,  which  is  the  fourth  paragraph  of  the 
exhibit. 

I  offer  that  for  appropriate  number. 

(The  document  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1030  ",  and 
is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2837.) 

Senator  Pope  (reading)  : 

Called  on  Admiral  Larimer,  Chief  of  the  Bureau  of  Ordnance,  United  States 
Navy,  and  discussed  the  same  matter  with  him.  Admiral  Larimer  called  up 
Capt.  H.  K.  Cage,  Chief  of  the  Material  Division,  office  of  the  Chief  of  Naval 
Operations,  and  called  his  attention  to  the  resolution  and  its  status?,  of  which 
neither  of  these  officers  had  been  aware  until  their  attention  was  called  thereto. 
Captain  Cage  will  take  appropriate  actiou  to  have  the  bill  opposed  on  the  floor 
of  the  House. 

He  makes  reference  to  Resolution  No.  282,  introduced  in  the  Con- 
gress by  Representative  Fish,  of  New  York',  proposing  a  resolution 
whereby  the  United  States  would  join  all  other  nations  in  renouncing 
the  sale  or  export  of  arms,  munitions,  or  implements  of  war. 

Has  that  matter  of  this  memorandum  come  to  your  attention  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes,  sir ;  at  the  time. 

Senator  Pope.  And  with  the  report  of  Colonel  Simons'  activities  in 
that  respect? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes,  sir.  He  was  taking  the  regular  procedure.  This 
Fish  resolution  would  have  prevented  the  very  thing  both  the  Army 
and  Navy  were  trying  to  protect  us  in  doing,  and  that  was  affecting 
foreign  sales. 

Senator  Pope.  Yes. 


2722  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Casey.  Then,  if  that  thing  went  into  effect,  the  Army  and 
Navy  would  both  have  had  to  put  in  the  policy,  and  it  would  have 
an  effect  on  our  decision  as  to  whether  or  not  we  could  stay  in  the 
business. 

Senator  Pope.  But  the  fact  is  that  Mr.  Simons  called  on  these 
officials  referred  to  heie  and  called  their  attention  to  this  Fish 
embargo  resolution,  and  reported  that  they  would  take  action  to 
oppose  it  on  the  floor  of  the  House. 

Mr.  Casey.  He  reported  what  they  were  going  to  do.  We  had 
nothing  to  do  with  what  they  were  going  to  do. 

Senator  Pope.  Very  well.  We  will  proceed,  and  I  will  call  your 
attention  to  a  memorandum  dated  January  17,  1933,  dated  at  Wil- 
mington, Del.,  the  subject  matter  of  the  memorandum,  which  is 
addressed  to  j^ou,  Major  Casey,  being  "  Proposed  Embargo  on  the 
Shipment  of  Munitions '',  which  I  will  offer  for  appropriate  number. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  1031" 
and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2838.) 

Senator  Pope.  That  reads  as  follows: 

Colonel  Taylor  in  his  T-2544  of  December  28,  which 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is  the  letter  right  there. 
Senator  Pope  (continuing  reading)  : 

which  was  his  annual  report  for  the  year,  made  some  very  interesting  com- 
ments on  the  effect  of  disarmament  in  Europe.  This  was  extracted  in  a 
memorandum  dated  January  13,  addressed  to  you,  and  sufficient  copies  of  the 
memorandum  prepared  so  that  they  could  be  handed  to  interested  officials  in 
Washington. 

On  the  morning  of  Monday,  January  16,  I  called  on  Maj.  R.  D.  Brown 
of  G-2— 

Military  intelligence — 

handed  hiui  a  copy  of  the  memorandum  and  asked  his  opinion  on  the  situa- 
tion. Major  Brown  was  frankly  concerned,  and,  since  the  authority  reqiiested 
by  the  President  to  declare  an  embargo  on  munitions  had  been  presented  to 
the  Senate  in  the  form  of  a  bill  and  this  bill  has  already  been  reported  out 
of  committee.  Major  Brown's  concern  is  justified. 

I  then  called  on  General  Moseley,  Deputy  Chief  of  Staff,  and  after  waiting 
some  time  while  General  Moseley  was  in  conversation  with  General  Mac- 
Arthur,  the  Chief  of  Staff,  and  Mr.  Frederick  H.  Payne,  the  Assistant  Secretary 
of  War,  General  Moseley  received  me  and  after  glancing  over  the  memorandum, 
instructed  me  to  get  a  copy  in  the  hands  of  Mr.  Payne  at  once,  since  Mr. 
Payne  had  just  been  discussing  the  matter. 

I  then  called  on  Colonel  McFarland,  who  advised  me  that  it  would  not  be 
possible  for  Mr.  Payne  to  see  me  at  the  moment  but  that  the  memorandum 
would  be  placed  in  his  hands  at  the  first  opportunity,  and  that  Mr.  Payne 
was  much  interested  in  it. 

I  then  called  on  Captain  Ogan,  executive  officer  of  Naval  Intelligence,  and 
handed  him  a  copy  requesting  that  it  be  brought  to  the  attention  of  the 
Secretary  of  the  Navy.  Captain  Ogan  informed  me  that  he  had  no  method 
of  getting  it  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Navy  and  advised  that  I  see  the  Chief  of 
the  Bureau  of  Ordnance. 

Hence  I  called  on  Admiral  E.  B.  Larimer  and  handed  him  a  copy  of  the 
memorandum.  He  promised  to  take  the  matter  up  with  Admiral  W.  V.  Pratt, 
Chief  of  Naval  Operations,  with  tlie  request  that  Admiral  Pratt  bring  the 
matter  to  the  attention  of  the  Secretary  of  Navy  and  indicate  the  vital  need  of 
maintaining  the  private  manufacture  of  arms  and  munitions  in  this  country. 

Do  you  recall  receiving  that  memorandum  ? 
Mr.  Casey.  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Pope.  Showing  the  activities  of  Colonel  Simons,  calling  on 
all  these  people  and  discussing  this  matter  with  them  ? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2723 

"Mr.  Casey,  I  think  at  this  time,  Senator,  if  Mr.  du  Pont  will  be 
'kind  enough,  the  memorandum  referred  to  should  be  read,  and  I 
would  suggest  that  you  follo^\'  the  text  in  that  annual  report  of 
Colonel  Taylor's. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  is  the  one  read  in  the  other  day. 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is  the  one  read  in  the  other  day,  but  I  think  it 
should  be  read  again,  whether  it  is  put  in'the  record  or  not  at  this 
.time. 

Senator  Pope.  If  it  is  relevant. 

Mr.  Casey.  It  is  extremely  relevant. 

Senator  Pope.  What  does  it  deal  with  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  You  take  Colonel  Taylor's  letter  and  you  will  find 
"where  those  red  marks  are.  It  starts  in  with  Colonel  Simons'  own 
statement  and  then  quotes  the  extract  from  Colonel  Taylors  report 
to  which  I  referred,  which  is  pretty  well  back. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  The  quotation  starts  out : 

In  view  of  tlie  very  great  effect 

Senator  Pope.  You  are  interested  in  having  read  the  part  relating 
to  the  disarmament  conference? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes ;  that  is  the  part  which  is  checked,  and  I  want  to  be 
sure  we  give  you  all  Simons'  letter ;  and  when  he  starts  the  quotation 
there,  if  you  will  check  it,  you  will  find  what  it  refers  to. 

Senator  Pope  (reading)  : 

In  view  of  ttie  very  great  effect  in  Europe  of  the  convention  covering  tlie 
limitation  of  the  traffic  of  armp,  signed  at  Geneva  in  1925  but  not  ratitied,  in 
accelerating  tlie  construction  of  governmental  factories  in  Europe,  the  oflSce 
has  been  very  much  concerned  as  to  what  might  be  the  result  of  the  present 
discussion  at  Geneva. 

There  is  no  need  to  describe  the  visible  result  of  this  conference,  as  this  has 
been  well  covered  by  the  press ;  but  we  have  been  trying  to  find  out  what  the 
real  effect  would  be. 

It  is  the  opinion  of  the  military  manufacturers  that  no  limitation  will  be  put 
on  governmental  manufacture ;  for  example,  in  France  there  are  300,000  people 
■employed  in  the  Government  arsenals,  and  nearly  all  these  men  vote  for  the 
socialist  deputies ;  therefore,  while  the  socialist  deputies  with  their  liberal 
doctrines  cry  for  disarmament,  any  attempts  on  the  part  of  the  French  War 
Department  to  close  down  the  Government  factories  are  bitterly  opposed  by 
these  same  deputies  on  the  basis  that  it  would  throw  voters  out  of  work.  In 
many  other  countries  the  same  situation  exists,  and  whenever  there  has  been  a 
tendency  on  the  part  of  the  military  administration  to  reduce  governmental 
■manufacture  it  has  been  always  opposed  by  the  Labor  deputies  on  the  basis 
that  it  would  put  men  out  of  work. 

It  is  therefore  generally  believed  that  there  will  be  no  limitation  to  govern- 
mental manufacture.  The  only  thing  which  will  be  acceptable  to  the  politicians 
is  limitation  on  private  manufacture ;  and  it  is  further  supposed  that  in  case 
of  further  limitation  on  private  manufacture  that  the  present  private  factories, 
such  as  Hotchkiss  in  France  and  Bofors  in  Sweden,  will  be  immediately  trans- 
formed into  Government  arsenals  and  continued  as  before.  It  is  also  supposed 
that  no  limitation  will  be  put  on  the  delivery  of  arms  from  one  government  to 
a  friendly  government;  hence  there  will  be  some  export  business  from  the 
government  factories. 

The  net  result  of  tliis  conference  so  far  has  been  the  tendency  on  the  part 
of  the  governments  to  develop  governmental  manufacturers  and  to  spend  their 
money  at  home. 

There  is  also  a  tfudency,  which  does  not  affect  the  armament  busines'S,  for 
the  militaiy  advisers  to  devise  suggestions  destined  to  obtain  military  advan- 
tages for  their  respective  countries.  One  of  the  motives  back  of  the  French 
proposal,  that  all  countries  should  establish  a  conscription  is  to  upset  the  pres- 
ent German  system  of  handling  their  Reichswehr.  The  Reichswehr  is  limited 
to   100,000  men   of   12  years   enlistment,    and  it   would   appear    reasonable   to 


2724  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

suppose  that  there  should  be  at  present  a  number  of  soldiers  around  the  age 
of  33  or  34 ;  the  fact  is  that  when  one  meets  a  soldier  of  the  Reichswehr  he  is 
a  young  man  in  the  early  twenties,  and  it  is  pretty  well  accepted  that  there 
are  several  men  available  under  the  same  name  and  hence  training  much 
larger  number  of  men  than  permitted.  The  French  feel  that  this  is  a  more 
dangerous  system  than  general  conscription.  Both  the  French  and  German 
proposals  for  disarmament  are  simply  jockeying  to  get  a  favorable  situation. 

That  is  the  part  having  to  do  with  disarmament. 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is  the  memorandum  that  Simons  took  around,, 
and  you  can  readily  see  that  that  particular  reference  to  the  desire 
on  the  part  of  the  French  Government  of  munitions  manufacture  as 
a  government  function  was  because  of  their  situation,  and  what  they 
would  do  with  their  private  plants,  which  would  naturally  operate 
to  the  disadvantage  of  the  United  States  Government. 

Senator  Pope.  All  right.  What  do  you  think  he  means  by  this, 
when  he  says  in  the  letter  of  April  7,  1932,  from  Mr.  Aiken  Simons 
to  you : 

Called  on  Admiral  Larimer,  Chief  of  the  Bureau  of  Ordnance,  United  States 
Navy,  and  discussed  the  same  matter  with  him.  Admiral  Larimer  called  up 
Capt.  H.  K.  Cage,  Chief  of  the  Materiel  Division,  Office  of  the  Chief  of  Naval 
Operations,  and  called  his  attention  to  the  resolution  and  its  status.     *     *     * 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Pope  (continuing  reading) : 

of  which  neither  of  these  officers  had  been  aware  until  their  attention  was 
called  thereto.  Captain  Cage  will  take  appropriate  action  to  have  the  bill 
opposed  on  the  floor  of  the  House. 

And  it  refers  specifically  to  the  Fish  resolution. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Pope.  Whatever  may  have  been,  then,  the  contents  of  this 
memorandum  referred  to,  this  certainly  was  discussed,  according  to 
Mr.  Simons? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes ;  it  was. 

Senator  Pope.  And  their  attention  called  to  it,  referring  to  the 
Fish  resolution? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Pope.  There  is  no  doubt  about  that? 

Mr.  Casey.  No. 

Senator  Pope.  All  right. 

Mr.  Casey.  The  point  is,  Senator,  that  that  is  not  trying  to  influ- 
ence legislation.  We  simply  go  to  people  who  have  instructed  us  as 
to  what  they  expect  us  to  do,  and  if  the  Fish  resolution  goes  into 
effect,  it  upsets  that  plan,  and  therefore  when  they  see  their  plans 
are  changed,  our  picture  is  different. 

Senator  Pope.  Do  you  mean  by  that  that  the  officials  in  the  Army 
and  Navy  Departments  have  requested  you  to  bring  to  their  attention 
any  legislation  affecting  embargoes? 

Mr.  Casey.  They  have  requested  us  nothing  of  the  kind.  We 
figure  that  we  haA'p  a  definite  obligation,  as  long  as  they  expect  us  to 
do  certain  things,  to  inform  tliem  of  anytliing  that  comes  to  our 
attention,  not  knowing  whether  they  have  seen  it  or  not,  that  may 
influence  the  very  plans  Ave  are  operating  under. 

Senator  Pope.  Yes.    All  right;  let  us  go  on. 

NoAv,  referring  to  another  memorandum  prepared  by  you,  Major- 
Casey,   dated   February   23,   1934.     Well,   it   hns  two   dates   on   it.. 


MUNITIOISrS    INDUSTRY  2725 

Washington,  D.  C,  February  15,  1934,  and  then  it  has  another 
date  of  February  23,  1934.  I  do  not  know  which  was  correct  But 
at  any  rate,  the  first  paragraph  of  that  memorandum  reads  as 
lollows : 

Had  a  talk  with  Colonel  Brabson,  of  Military  Intelligence,  and  drew  his 
attention  to  the  Nye  resolution.  As  Colonel  Brabson  comes  from  Tennessee 
and  IS  very  close  to  Secretary  Hull,  he  will  discuss  this  matter  with  him,  so 
that  when  the  matter  is  referred  to  the  State  Department,  at  least  they  will 
be_  familiar  with  the  situation  and  the  possible  disadvantages  from  the  view- 
point of  the  Army. 

This  memorandum  was  given  to  you  and  you  are  familiar  with  its 
contents? 
Mr.  Casey.  I  wrote  the  memorandum. 
Senator  Pope.  It  is  your  memorandum  ? 
Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No  1032  " 
appears  m  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Pope.  You  were  the  one  that  had  a  talk  with  Colonel 
Brabson,  then,  calling  his  attention  to  the  Nye  resolution « 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Pope.  What  did  he  say  about  it? 

Mr.  Casey.  Again  the  possible  effect  it  might  have  on  the  national 
defense  and  our  part  in  the  national-defense  picture. 

Senator  Pope.  Yes. 

Mr.  Casey.  It  was  brought  out  at  the  first  hearing,  and  I  think 
Senator,  you  asked  the  question— I  know  Senator  Clark  did—"  What 
did  Colonel  Brabson  do  about  it?  "  I  said,  "As  soon  as  I  had 
reported  it,  I  was  through.  I  made  no  further  move."  Senator 
Clark  then  said,  "  I  know  Colonel  Brabson  and  I  know  he  did  not 
take  it  up."  I  said,  "  That  is  something  I  know  nothing  about.  I 
made  no  attempt  to  find  out  from  Brabson,  after  I  had  once  reported 
it  to  him,  the  possible  effect  it  might  have  on  the  national  defense, 
or  going  any  further." 

Senator  Pope.  Your  great  concern  here  with  reference  to  the  Nye 
resolution  as  well  as  others,  was  the  effect  it  might  have  on  the 
national  defense? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is  all. 

Incidentally,  Senator,  in  this  connection,  anybody  who  knows  Col- 
onel Brabson,  I  think  everybody  loves  and  respects  him.  He  is  an 
offacer  and  a  gentleman.  When  a  thing  is  reported  to  Brabson  I 
know  the  way  an  Army  officer  feels.  He  is  perfectly  willing  to  have 
you  tell  him  something,  but  he  knows  that  he  should  not  tell  you 
what  he  expects  to  do,  if  anything. 

In  other  words  he  knows  in  giving  the  information  that  you  are 
giving  it  for  his  benefit.    If  he  sees  fit  to  use  the  information  you 
are  giving  him  or  not  is  his  function.     He  knows  that  I  know 
only  too  well  that  I  am  not  going  to  be  foolish  enough  to  put  one  of 
ttiese  men  ma  corner  and  ask  him,  "What  did  you  do  about  it?  " 
They  would  feel  that  I  know  that  I  would  not  ask  such  a  question. 
Senator  Pope    You  have,  such  an  understanding  with  them? 
Mr.  Casey.  Yes ;  because  I  know  the  function. 
Senator  Clark,  I  believe,  will  again  speak  of  the  type  of  man 
Colonel  Brabson  is.    There  is  no  question  at  all  but  what  he  would 


2726  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

resent  any  effort  on  my  part  to  get  him  to  do  something  that  he- 
thoiiirht  was  improper  or  that  he  should  not  do. 

Senator  Pope.  Did  he  speak  up  at  this  time  when  you  suggested 
that  he  see  Secretary  Hull? 

Ttlr.  Casey.  He  simply  accepted  the  suggestion  and  made  no- 
comment.  ,.11       J.   i-i  1       t 

Senator  Clakk.  Major,  I  said  I  think  very  highly  of  Colonel 
Brabson,  which  I  do.  I  was  certain  that  the  suggestion  contained 
in  your  report  that  he  go  over  and  talk  to  Secretary  Hull  on  the 
grounds  of  personal  friendship  did  not  represent  anything  Brabson 
had  done,  because  I  think  Brabson  has  got  too  much  sense  to  do  that. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  agree  with  you,  but  I  was  thoroughly  justified  in. 
taking  up  a  matter  which  might  affect  the  whole  set-up  of  the 
Assistant  Secretary  of  War's  office. 

Senator  Pope.  You  say  you  thought  he  had  too  much  sense  to  go 
and  see  Secretary  Hull? 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator  Clark  said  that. 

Senator  Pope.  I  thought  you  agreed  with  Senator  Clark. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do.    I  agree  with  him  in  his  estimation  of  the  man. 

Senator  Pope.  You  asked  him  to  go  see  Secretary  Hull  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  did  not  ask  him. 

Senator  Pope.  You  suggested  it  instead  of  asking  him? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  he  might  see  him  when  it  came  to  the  State- 
Department. 

Senator  Pope.  I  see.  . 

Mr.  Casey.  But  just  realize  this,  Senator:  I  was  making  a  sugges- 
tion.   That  does  not  mean  that  Brabson  follows  my  suggestions. 

Senator  Pope.  Oh,  no.  xVnd  if  you  had  asked  him,  it  would  not 
have  meant  that  he  would  have  gone  to  see  him,  either. 

Mr.  Casey.  No,  no;  not  a  bit. 

Senator  Pope.  I  call  your  attention  to  another  memorandum  by 
Mr.  Aiken  Simons,  your  Washington  representative,  dated  Januaiy 
9fi    1 928 

"(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1033  " 
and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2838.) 

Senator  Pope  (reading)  : 

It  had  come  to  our  attention  that  Representative  Hamilton  Fish  of  New  York 
had  introduced  resolutions  into  Congress  forbidding  the  shipment  of  munitions 
to  any  country  with  which  the  United  States  was  at  peace.  It  was  desired  to 
ascertain  if  this  bill  was  known  to  the  "War  Department  and  if  there  had  been 
any  change  in  the  previously  announced  policy  of  the  War  Department  to 
encourage  the  private  manufacture  of  munitions  in  the  United  States. 

I  called  on  Col.  Standley  B.  Embick  of  War  Plans  Division,  General  Staff, 
who  was  unaware  of  the  bill  but  advised  me  that  there  had  been  no  announced 
change  of  policy  on  the  part  of  the  War  Department. 

I  called  on  Lt.  Col.  William  B.  Wallace,  executive  officer  G^,  General  Staff, 
who  knew  of  no  change  in  policy  but  arranged  to  have  me  meet  several  officers 
in  tlie  Office  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War  as  follows:  Col.  William  P. 
Wooten  (not  in)  ;  Maj.  Leonard  T.  Gerow,  INIaj.  Larry  P.  JNIcAfee;  who  discussed 
the  matter  at  some  length.  While  we  were  talking,  Lt.  Col.  .Tames  D.  Fife 
came  in  and  continued  tb?  discussion.  I  learned  from  Colonel  Fife  and  Major 
McAfee  thiit  far  from  there  being  any  detrhni^ntal  clifinge  in  policy  of  tbe- 
War  Department  that  the  Secretary  of  War  had  strongly  urged,  in  his  annual 
report,  that  everv  effort  be  made  to  encourage  private  manufacture  and  had 
recommended  changes  in  the  national  defense  account,  as  well  as  sufficient 
appropriations  to  permit  educational  orders  being  given  to  the  private 
manufacturers. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2727 

The  matter  was  then  discussed  with  General  Williams,  Chief  of  Ordnance, 
who  had  not  seen  the  bill  but  did  not  take  it  very  seriously.  Since  Mr.  Flsh^ 
who  introduced  this  bill  served  creditably  in  the  A.  E.  F.  and  was  promoted  to 
major,  it  is  considered  that  he  is  a  friend  of  the  services  and  it  is  possible  that 
his  purpose  in  introducing  these  resolutions  was  to  render  other  action  ridicu- 
lous or  ineffective. 

What  do  you  know  about  that  situation  there  ?  Do  j^ou  have  some 
information  that  this  proposed  embargo  was  offered  by  Representa- 
tive Fish  in  order  to  render  their  actions  ridiculous  or  ineffective? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  have  no  other  information  but  what  is  in  this  report. 

Senator  Pope.  That  is  all  you  have? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes.  I  do  not  know  to  this  day  what  Representative 
Fish  had  in  mind,  what  his  purpose  was,  why  he  introduced  the  bill, 
or  anything  else.    I  never  made  any  steps  to  find  out. 

Senator  Pope.  Do  you  know  what  Colonel  Simons  had  in  his 
mind  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  believe  he  had  anything  beyond  what  he 
reported  here. 

Now,  do  you  not  think,  Senator,  that  the  very  first  paragraph, 
likewise  the  third  paragraph  down,  indicate  pretty  clearly  what  I 
have  been  saying  right  along?  It  is  the  question  of  the  effect  on 
the  national  defense  and  our  part  in  the  picture. 

Senator  Pope.  Oh,  I  think  there  is  not  any  doubt  that  you  were 
going  from  one  to  the  other  of  these  officials  here  talking  to  them 
about  this  proposed  embargo  on  the  shipment  of  certain  arms  which 
you  were  selling. 

Mr.  Casey.  No.  We  are  trying  to  find  out  if  there  was  any  change 
in  their  policy. 

Senator  Pope.  Yes. 

Mr.  Casey.  That  was  our  sole  purpose. 

It  might  be  in  order  at  this  time  to  read  two  memorandums  that 
have  emanated  from  the  War  Department,  one  from  the  Office  of  the 
Chief  of  Ordnance,  the  other,  I  believe,  from  The  Adjutant  General's 
Office. 

Would  you  mind  reading  those,  Lammot,  please  ? 

Senator  Pope.  Are  they  brief — fairly  brief? 

Mr.  Casey.  Very  brief. 

Senator  Pope.  All  right,  go  ahead. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  This  is  a  letter  by  Lutz  Wahl,  Brigadier 
General,  Acting  The  Adjutant  General,  dated  August  20,  1925. 

Manufacture  of  Material  Conforming  to  United  States  Army  Specifications  for 
Foreign  Governments  by  the  United  States  Manufacturers 

The  chiefs  of  all  supply  'branches: 

The  following  policy,  which  has  been  approved,  is  communicated  to  you  for 
your  information  and  guidance: 

STATEMENT  OF   POLICY 

1.  When  a  foreign  government  orders  material  from  manufacturers  in  the 
United  States,  and  supplies  specifications  for  the  material  even  though  the 
material  is  the  duplicate,  or  practical  duplicate,  of  material  with  which  the 
War  Department  is  supplied  on  United  States  Army  specifications,  the  War 
Department  should  take  no  steps  to  restrict  the  manufacture  of  the  material  or 
its  supply  to  the  foreign  government,  but  should  encourage  such  transaction 
unless  limitations  for  reasons  other  tlian  secrecy  are  in  effect.  Manufacturers 
should  be  encouraged  to  keep  the  War  Department  informed  of  such  transactions.. 


2728  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

2.  When  a  foreign  government  orders  material  from  manufacturers  in  the 
United  States  to  be  made  in  accordance  with  United  States  Army  specifications, 
and  specifies  that  such  material  shall  be  made  to  agree  with  such  specifications 
without  furnishing  the  specifications,  the  War  Department  should  encourage 
such  manufacture  and  only  oppose  it  if  confidential  or  secret  military  informa- 
tion would  be  divulged  to  the  foreign  government  by  permitting  such  manu- 
facture and  supply,  unless  other  limitations  are  in  effect  at  the  time  which 
would  require  restrictive  measures  by  the  War  Department.  The  War 
Department  sho\ild  be  the  judge  of  whether  the  material  embodies  confi- 
dential or  secret  military  features.  Manufacturers  to  whom  United  States 
Army  specifications  are  supplied  should  be  required  to  refer  all  requests  for 
material  ordered  thereunder  by  agencies  other  than  those  of  the  Federal  or 
State  Governments,  to  the  War  Department  for  decision  as  to  whether  the 
specifications  may  be  used  for  the  purpose  desired. 

By  order  of  the  Secretary  of  War. 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is  one,  read  the  other  one. 
Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  The  date  of  that- 


Mr.  Eaushenbush.  That  is  Aiio;ust  20,  1925. 

Senator  Pofe.  You  wanted  to  offer  that  in  evidence? 

Mr.  Eaushenbush.  It  has  been  read. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  think  so. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Will  you  assign  it  an  appropriate  number? 

(The  document  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1034  "  and 
appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  This  one  is  under  date  of  August  8,  1934, 
signed  by  W.  H.  Tschappat,  Major  General,  Chief  of  Ordnance. 

Ordnance  Oflace  Memorandum  No.  462 

1.  Policy  of  War  Department  regarding  foreign  sales  of  arms  and  munitions, 
etc.  Reference  O.  O.  383.4/357  with  enclosures,  and  O.  O.  472.5/2890  with 
enclosures,  the  following  information  regarding  the  policy  of  the  War  Depart- 
ment, on  foreign  sales  of  arms  and  munitions,  etc.,  is  published  for  the  informa- 
tion of  all  concerned : 

The  general  policy  and  practice  of  the  War  Department  will  continue  as  it 
has  in  the  past  to  offer  no  military  objection  to  the  foreign  sale  of  arms  and 
munitions  by  American  manufacturers,  or  furnishing  such  manufacturers  with 
information  and  facilities  within  the  control  of  the  War  Department  to  enable 
them  to  execute  such  sales,  when  in  the  discretion  of  the  Secretary  of  War, 
no  military  information  of  a  secret  or  confidential  nature  is  disclosed  thereby, 
and  such  action  is  considered  to  enhance  the  interests  of  National  Defense  by 
encouraging  the  maintenance  of  facilities  for  supply  in  the  event  of  an  emer- 
gency. 

However,  all  proposals  of  this  nature  received  by  procuring  arms  and  services 
will  be  submitted  to  The  Adjutant  General  for  the  action  of  the  Secretary  of 
War.  Each  case  will  be  decided  upon  its  own  merits  and,  in  order  to  assure 
that  no  international  agreements  or  foreign  policies  are  violated,  the  State 
Department  is  consulted.  In  this  connection,  it  is  necessary  for  the  procuring 
agency  to  maintain  the  closed  cooperation  with  the  Navy  Department  in  mat- 
ters affecting  foreign  sales  or  the  release  of  information  pertaining  to  military 
material,  and  no  action  will  be  taken  unless  the  Navy  Department,  if  the  matter 
Is  of  interest  to  the  Navy,  is  in  agreement. 

W.  H.  Tschappat, 
Major  Oeneral,  Chief  of  Ordnance. 

That  will  also  be  marked? 

Mr.  Eaushenbush.  Yes.     That  is  "  1035." 

(The  document  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1035  "  and 
appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Pope.  Yes.  I  understood  that  was  the  policy  of  the  War 
Department.     There  is  no  question  about  that. 

Mr.  Casey.  Every  move  we  have  made  so  far  has  simply  been  be- 
cause of  that  policy.     We  wanted  to  see  whether  there  was  a  change 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2729 

of  policy,  or  if  there  was  something  coming  which  might  affect  that 
policy.  I  think  in  view  of  the  fact  that  we  are  looKed  on  by  the 
War  Department  and  the  Navy  Department  as  such  an  important 
part  of  their  entire  munitions  policy  and  the  industrial  preparedness 
program  that  we  are  in  duty  bound  to  report,  in  case  they  have  not 
caught  it  themselves,  any  instance  we  may  find,  whether  it  is  read,  a 
conference,  or  no  matter  what  it  might  be,  that  might  affect  the  very 
arrangement  we  are  now  working  under. 

Senator  Pope.  For  that  reason  you  called  their  attention 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is  all. 

Senator  Pope.  To  the  embargo  legislation  or  anything  else,  with 
respect  to  your  business? 

Mr.  Casey.  In  most  instances  we  find  they  know  all  about  it,  but 
sometimes  we  will  catch  it  before  they  do. 

Senator  Pope.  I  will  now  refer  to  a  letter  written  by  Amos  A. 
Fries,  Major  General,  Chief  of  Chemical  Warfare  Service,  under  date 
of  February  7,  1928.  I  will  read  the  first  paragraph  and  one  or  two 
others. 

On  January  25,  1928,  Mr.  Theodore  Burton,  of  Ohio,  introduced  into  the 
House  of  Representatives  a  joint  resolution  known  as  "House  Calendar  136, 
House  Joint  Resolution  183,  Seventieth  Congress,  first  session ",  also  given 
file  no.  report  492.  This  is  a  resolution  to  prohibit  the  exportation  of  arms, 
munitions,  or  implements  of  wav  to  belligerent  nations. 

Then  I  will  omit  the  next  paragraph,  unless  somebody  wants  it 
read. 

Would  not  such  a  bill  encourage  the  radicals  and  Communists  to  continuually 
attack  the  United  States  in  its  commercial  relations  with  other  nations  when 
any  two  or  more  of  them  may  be  engaged  in  war? 

Did  you  discuss  this  matter  with  General  Fries  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  never  heard  of  the  letter. 

Senator  Pope.  Dealing  with  encouraging  the  radicals  and  Com- 
munists ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  never  heard  of  the  letter  until  it  was  put  in  front 
of  me. 

Senator  Pope.  I  will  now  read  the  last  paragraph  of  the  letter. 

It  is  believed  that  such  a  bill  is  exceedingly  bad.  I  am  just  calling  this 
to  your  attention  as  a  matter  which  seems  to  me  to  be  worthy  of  serious  con- 
sideration by  those  interested  in  the  chemical  industry  in  this  country. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1036  "  and  is 
included  in  the  aj^pendix  on  p.  2840.) 

Senator  Pope.  You  say  you  were  not  familiar  with  that  letter? 

Mr.  Casey.  No  ;  that  was  out  of  my  bailiwick. 

Senator  Pope.  At  any  rate,  that  shows  the  attitude  of  General 
Fries. 

Mr.  Casey.  Of  the  War  Department. 

Senator  Pope.  Yes.  You  were  familiar  with  that  at  the  time  it 
reached  you,  Mr.  du  Pont  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  not.  I  think  that  letter  is  ad- 
dressed to  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont,  is  it  not  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Pope.  Do  you  recall  it,  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  No  ;  I  do  not  recall  it. 

83876— 35— PT  12 7 


2730  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  He  seems  to  be  interested  in  poisonous  gases. 
Senator  Pope.  It  is  suggested  we  look  at  the  second  paragrapli  of 
the  letter. 

Section  3  starts  out  as  follows: 

"  As  used  in  this  joiut  resolution,  the  term  '  arms,  munitions,  or  implements 
of  war '  means  *  *  *  13.  Poisonous  gases,  acids,  or  any  other  articles 
or  inventions  prepared  for  use  in  warfare." 

Did  you  ask  any  question  about  that  ? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  No.  I  was  just  calling  attention  that  this  was 
the  head  of  the  Chemical  Warfare  Service  there,  and  that  he  was 
interested  in  that  section,  apparently. 

Senator  Pope.  Keeping  in  mind  this  communication  from  General 
Fries,  I  call  your  attention  to  a  letter  on  February  9,  1928,  from  Mr. 
Irenee  du  Pont  to  the  General.  "  Dear  General."  Who  would  that 
be;  General  who,  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Unless  it  is  General  Fries,  I  do  not  know. 
I  have  forgotten  all  about  it. 

Senator  Pope.  I  presume  it  would,  from  the  context. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  To  General  Fries ;  yes. 

Senator  Pope.  Yes.     You  say ; 

Dear  Gknee.al:  I  agree  with  you  that  a  law  passed  by  Congress  forbidding 
exportation  of  arms,  munitions,  or  implements  of  war  to  belligerent  nations 
would  result  in  much  mischief  or  worse.  la  fact,  enforcing  such  a  statute  may 
very  well  force  the  United  States  into  war  with  one  of  the  belligerents. 

I  admire  the  desire  to  discourage  war,  which  doubtless  has  prompted  the 
proposal;  but  it  seems  to  me  self-evident  results  flowing  from  the  passage  of 
the  law  have  not  been  at  all  considered.  This  law  would  at  once  put  other 
nations  on  notice  that  they  must  build  their  own  munitions  plants  and  create 
supplies  of  all  war  materials,  if  they  are  to  have  any  protection ;  that  they 
must  lay  in  supplies  of  munition  for  eventualities.  It  would  seem  to  me  just 
as  consistent  to  broaden  the  scope  and  prohibit  all  trading  with  belligerents. 
That  would  be  fairer,  clearer,  and  easier  enforced. 

If  we  are  going  to  take  the  position  of  forcing  our  will  on  other  nations  in 
the  shape  of  "  thou  shalt  not  fight ",  we  had  better  get  prepared  to  do  a  good 
deal  of  fighting  ourselves. 
Sincerely  yours, 

(Signed)     Ir6n£b  du  Pont. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1037 "  and 
appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Those  sound  like  my  sentiments.  I  do  not 
recall  the  letter. 

Senator  Pope.  I  call -your  attention,  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont,  to  your 
letter  of  February  9,  1928,  being  a  memorandum  to  the  legal  depart- 
ment, Mr.  C.  R.  Mudge : 

Attached  is  a  copy  of  letter  received  from  Major  General  Fries,  Chief  of 
Chemical  Warfare  Service,,  and  my  reply. 

It  seems  to  me  that  this  is  a  very  grave  question,  and  the  passage  of  the 
resolution  should  be  opposed  and  defeated. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  1038"  and 
appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Pope.  That  resolution  you  referred  to  was  evidently  the 
Burton  resolution  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  could  not  recall. 

Senator  Pope,  That  is  the  one  that  is  referred  to  in  the  letter  of 
General  Fries? 

Mr,  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  have  that  letter  in  front  of  me. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2731 

Senator  Pope.  In  the  former  hearing,  Mr.  du  Pont,  before  this 
committee  we  were  discussing  the  Fish  resolution,  as  I  recall,  and  I 
asked  this  question  :  ^ 

Mr.  du  Pout,  following  this  designation  of  your  attitude  in  1924  with  refer- 
ence to  the  embargo  act,  what  would  you  say  was  the  attitude  of  your  company 
as  to  previous  bills  or  resolutions  introduced  in  Congress  providing  for 
embargoes  on  war  materials'? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont  answered: 

I  was  not  aware  that  there  were  ;iny  such.  I  have  not  been  very  active  in 
that  department  of  the  business,  and  I  do  not  know  of  any. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont  said : 

Senator,  I  do  not  know  of  any. 

This  will  now  recall  your  mind  to  the  Burton  resolution,  which 
was  before  the  Fish  resolution,  was  it  not  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Senator  Pope.  And  at  least  this  much  activity  has  been  made  on 
your  part? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  consider  that  activity.  I  receive  a 
letter  and  I  write  about  6  or  8  lines  giving  my  personal  views  on  the 
matter,  and  refer  the  matter  to  Mudge,  as  I  thought  the  legal  depart- 
ment might  be  interested. 

Senator  Pope.  Who  is  Dr.  Reese? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Dr.  Reese  used  to  be  in  charge  of  the  high- 
explosives  research  end  of  the  company.     He  is  a  chemist  of  note. 

Senator  Pope.  Of  the  du  Pont  Company? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  He  is  now  retired. 

Senator  Pope.  Was  he  in  your  employ  on  February  22,  1928? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  think  so. 

Senator  Pope.  The  next  exhibit  is  a  memorandum  dated  Febru- 
ary 22,  1928,  directed  to  Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont,  signed  by  Charles 
L.  Reese. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1039  " 
and  appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Pope  (reading) : 

Referring  to  your  memorandum  of  February  14  enclosing  copies  of  corre- 
spondence between  General  Fries  and  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont  with  regard  to  the 
joint  resolution  which  Mr.  Theodore  Burton  has  introduced  in  the  House  of 
Representatives  to  prohibit  the  exportation  of  arms,  munitions,  or  implements 
of  war  to  belligerent  nations,  I  have  taken  steps  to  get  further  information  with 
regard  to  this  resolution  and  also  to  be  kept  in  touch  with  its  progress.  I  have 
also  made  arrangements  to  have  this  matter  presented  to  the  executive  commit- 
tee of  the  Manufacturing  Chemists'  Association  at  its  next  meeting  on  March 
14.  I  am  sorry  this  matter  did  not  come  to  my  attention  a  day  or  two  earlier, 
as  I  could  have  taken  it  up  at  our  recent  meeting.  Mr.  Tierney,  secretary  of 
the  Manufacturing  Chemists'  Association,  will  keep  me  in  touch  with  the 
progress  of  this  resolution,  which  I  do  not  believe  can  possibly  pass. 

Do  you  know  whether  or  not  that  was  taken  up  with  the  Manufac- 
turing Chemists'  Association  for  such  action  as  it  might  take  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not.  This  is  the  first  time  I  have  seen 
it  so  far  as  I  know. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  was  addressed  to  Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont. 


1  Hearings,   Part  V,  p.  1125. 


2732  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Senator  Pope.  That  was  addressed  to  Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know. 

Senator  Pope.  At  least  it  was  reported  to  you  and  evidently  came 
to  your  attention  at  that  time? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Senator  Pope.  You  knew  that  it  was  the  purpose  of  Mr.  Reese  to 
present  this  to  the  executive  committee  of  the  Manufacturing  Chem- 
ists' Association  for  such  action  as  they  might  desire  to  take  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Apparently  it  was  his  impression. 

Senator  Pope.  I  call  your  attention  to  a  memorandum  from  Mr. 
Aiken  Simons  under  date  of  February  22,  1928,  addressed  to  Mr.  C. 
Stewart  Comeaux,  secretary  Sporting  Arms  &  Ammunition  Manu- 
facturers Institute,  103  Park  Avenue,  New  York,  N.Y. : 

Dear  Mr.  Comeaux: 

National  Legislation  Re:  Arms  and  Ammunition  for  Export. 

The  first  paragraph  reads: 

Receipt  is  acknowledged  of  your  letter  of  February  18  in  reference  to  the 
resolutions  introduced,  respectively,  by  Mr.  Hamilton  Fish,  of  New  York,  and 
Mr   Burton,  of  Ohio,  in  the  United  States  House  of  Representatives, 

I  have  already  given  this  matter  some  attention  and  believe  that  the  resolu- 
tions introduced  by  Mr.  Fish  can  be  dismissed  from  further  consideration,  since 
by  their  wording  they  would  prohibit  the  export  of  arms  to  an  ally  of  the  United 
States  in  time  of  war  and  would  apparently  permit  the  shipment  of  arms  to  an 
enemy  of  the  United  States  at  any  time. 

I  also  made  some  investigation  of  Mr.  Burton's  resolutions,  but  do  not  believe 
they  are  lil^ely  to  be  passed  in  their  present  form.  It  does  not  seem  discreet, 
however,  to  put  on  record  the  state  of  affairs. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  1040"  and 
appears  in  full  in  text.) 

Senator  Pope.  Do  you  have  any  idea  of  why  you  thought  it  was 
not  discreet  there  to  put  on  record  the  state  of  affairs  as  to  the  Bur- 
ton resolutions,  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  think  I  ever  saw  the  letter. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  have  no  idea  of  why  he  should  say  that. 

Senator  Pope.  Major  Casey,  did  you  hear  my  reading  of  the  third 
paragraph  of  this  letter? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  am  afraid  I  did  not,  sir.  ^     , 

Senator  Pope.  I  will  read  it  again  for  your  benefit.  This  is  a 
report  or  letter  from  Simons  to  Comeaux.     He  says : 

I  also  made  some  investigation  of  Mr.  Burton's  resolutions,  but  do  not  be- 
lieve they  are  likely  to  be  passed  in  their  present  form.  It  does  not  seem 
discreet,  however,  to  put  on  record  the  state  of  affairs. 

What  state  of  affairs  was  it  that  was  not  discreet  for  him  to  put 
on  the  record  ? 

ISIr.  Casey.  I  have  not  the  slightest  idea. 

Senator  Pope.  Do  you  know  what  the  state  of  affairs  was  with 
reference  to  the  activity  of  Mr.  Simons  pertaining  to  the  Burton 
resolutions? 

Mr.  Casey.  He  had  no  activities. 

Senator  Pope.  He  had  none  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Except  having  reported  it. 

Senator  Pope.  Let  us  read  on,  then : 

Regarding  further  action,  I  think  that  the  most  effective  method  of  handling 
this  would  be  for  Mr.  Beebe's  committee,  appointed  by  Mr.  Hoover  in  1925,  to 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2733 

write  to  Mr.  Hoover  inviting  attention  to  the  Burton  resolutions  and  requesting 
protection  for  American  industry. 

Do  you  recall  the  committee  that  was  appointed  by  Mr.  Hoover 
in  1925? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Pope.  Did  you  know  that  Mr.  Simons  made  this  sugges- 
tion that  this  committee  be  called  together  for  this  purpose? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes ;  I  knew  that. 

Senator  Pope.  You  knew  that? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes ;  after  it  was  done,  I  knew  it. 

Senator  Pope.  I  thought  you  said  a  minute  ago  that  Mr.  Simons 
was  doing  nothing  in  the  way  of  activity  in  regard  to  this,  he  is 
merely  reporting. 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is  all  he  is  doing.  He  is  reporting  to  Comeaux. 
He  is  making  a  suggestion  to  Comeaux. 

Senator  Pope.  He  is  making  a  suggestion  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  To  Comeaux. 

Senator  Pope.  "VYe  will  finish  reading  "  Exhibit  No.  1040." 

Since  you  are,  no  doubt,  unfamiliar  with  "  Mr.  Beebe's  committee ",  I  will 
give  you  a  brief  outline. 

In  the  spring  of  1925  it  became  known  that  an  international  congress  was  to 
be  held  at  Geneva  for  the  purpose  of  limiting  the  exportation  of  munitions  and 
that  it  was  probable  that  efforts  were  to  be  made  by  certain  foreign  elements 
to  prohibit  the  private  manufacture  of  munitions.  On  March  28,  1925,  Mr. 
Hoover,  Secretary  of  Commerce,  telegraphed  a  number  of  American  manufac- 
turers of  arms  and  munitions  inviting  them  to  attend  a  conference  to  be  held 
in  Washington  April  1.  This  conference  was  presided  over  by  Mr.  Hoover 
in  person  and  was  attended  by  representatives  of  a  number  of  industries. 

After  a  preliminary  discussion  Mr.  Hoover  requested  the  conference  to 
organize  and  appoint  its  own  committee.  Mr.  Beebe,  as  chairman,  appointed 
the  following  executive  committee :  Major  Simons,  Du  Pont  Co.,  vice  chairman ; 
Mr.  Nichols,  Colt  Patent  Firearms  Co. ;  Mr.  Reierson,  Remington  Arms  Co, ;  Mr. 
Harrington,  Harrington  &  Richardson  Arms  Co. 

We  found  Mr.  Hoover  very  sympathetic  and  helpful  throughout,  and  with 
his  assistance  a  call  was  sent  to  36  other  industries  which  had  not  at  that 
time  sent  delegates  and  which  tended  to  give  our  committee  a  more  national 
scope  and  authority. 

Resolutions  were  drafted  showing  the  objections  of  the  American  manufac- 
turers to  the  proposed  international  agreement  and  at  a  later  conference  held 
in  Washington. 

On  April  14  the  executive  committee  presented  their  final  report  to  Mr. 
Hoover,  at  a  meeting  at  which  he  presided,  which  was  attended  by  the  Ameri- 
can delegates  to  Geneva,  namely,  Admiral  Long,  General  Ruggles,  Major  Strong, 
Mr.  Bulles,  and  Mr.  Mariner. 

Evidently  this  committee  represented  the  opinions  and  decisions  of  the  fol- 
lowing firms :  E.  W.  Bliss  Co.,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y.,  torpedoes,  etc. ;  Colt  Patent 
Firearms  Co.,  Hartford,  Conn. ;  Goodyear  Tire  &  Rubber  Co.,  Akron,  Ohio, 
ballons  and  dirigibles :  Harrington  <&  Richardson  Arms  Co.,  Worcester,  Mass. ; 
Hercules  Powder  Co.,  Wilmington,  Del. ;  Hunter  Arms  Co.,  Inc.,  Fulton,  N.  Y. ; 
Ithaca  Gun  Co.,  Ithaca,  N.  Y. ;  Iver  Johnson  Arms  &  Cycle  Works,  Fitchburg, 
Mass. ;  Remington  Arms  Co.,  New  York  City ;  U.  S.  Cartridge  Co.,  New  York 
City ;  Winchester  Repeating  Arms  Co.,  New  Haven,  Conn. ;  Western  Cartridge 
Co.,  East  Alton,  111. 

It  is  believed,  says  Mr.  Simons,  that  by  the  action  of  Mr.  Hoover  in  appoint- 
ing this  committee  and  the  committee's  subsequent  work  the  Geneva  Conference 
was  prevented  from  adopting  international  agreements  which  would  have  been 
burdensome  to  American  manufacturers  and,  so  far  as  I  know,  the  committee 
has  never  been  dissolved.  I  suggest,  therefore,  that  Mr.  Beebe  write  Mr. 
Hoover  recalling  to  his  memory  the  events  of  April  1925  and  inviting  his  atten- 
tion to  the  Burton  and  Fish  resolutions,  which  we  believe  to  be  equally  injurious 
to  the  national  defense  and  to  the  best  interests  of  the  American  industries 
Involved,  and  requesting  Mr.  Hoover  to  give  us  such  support  as  he  may  judge 


2734  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

proper   and   appropriate.     It   would    also   seem   desirable  for   Mr.   Hoover   to 

notify  tlie  firms  whicli  his  committee  represented,  so  that  the  facts  can  be 

brought  to  the  attention  of  their  local  Congressmen  and  Senators. 

Very  truly  yours, 

Aiken   Simons. 

Was  this  matter  broiisjht  to  your  attention  as  to  the  suggestion  of 
Mr.  Simons  with  respect  to  calling  this  committee  together,  Mr.  du 

Pont? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  think  it  was  brought  to  my  atten- 
tion at  the  time.     I  at  least  have  no  recollection  of  it. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Po^jt.  What  is  the  date  of  it? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  February  22,  1928. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  was  not  brought  to  my  attention. 

Senator  Pope.  Do  you  know  about  it,  Mr.  Casey  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  No. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  would  like  to  make  an  observation  with 

regard  to  this,  however. 

Senator  Pope.  Yes.  .       .i       u  • 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  The  resolution  drafted  showing  the  objec- 
tions of  the  American  manufacturers  to  the  proposed  international 
agreement  were  in  the  nature  of  recommendations  to  distinguish 
between  sporting  arms  and  ammunition  and  millitary  arms  and 
ammunition. 

Senator  Pope.  Yes.  t  j    u 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Those  recommendations  all  applied  them- 
selves to  that  particular  point. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  They  went  further  than  that,  on  the  matter 
of  publicity  and  the  like,  did  they  not? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  How  is  that? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  As  I  remember  it,  they  went  further  than  that 
as  to  the  matter  of  publicity  and  the  like,  and  the  control  of  it. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I"  think  the  resolution  was  entered  in  here. 

Senator  Pope.  Yes ;  that  was  gone  into  the  other  day. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  With  reference  to  the  Geneva  Conference 
having  been  prevented  from  adopting  international  agreements 
which  would  have  been  burdensome  to  American  manufacturers,  I 
think  that  refers  to  that  same  point. 

Senator  Pope.  It  does  not  say  so. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  No  ;  it  does  not  say  so. 

Senator  Pope.  And  the  fact  is  they  did  go  further  in  their  recom- 
mendations, according  to  the  testimony  of  a  few  days  ago,  when  the 
mere  sporting-arms  proposal,  having  to  do  with  publicity  and  the 
methods  of  licensing,  and  so  forth. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  recall  it. 

Senator  Pope.  I  do. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Was  that  the  piece  of  legislation  that  Con- 
gress held  up  fo!-  8  years? 

Senator  Pope.  Yes ;  that  is  exactly  the  same  piece. 

Mr.  Raushenbush,  do  you  have  there  a  memorandum  or  letter  dated 
February  28,  1928,  froni  Mr.  Beebe  to  Major  Simons? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Yes. 

Senator  Poi'e.  I  would  like  to  have  it  marked  with  the  appropriate 
exhibit  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  1041",  and 
appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2735 

Senator  Pope.  The  title  of  that  memorandum  or  letter  is,  "Na- 
tional Legislation  ",  and  it  reads : 

My  Dear  Major  :  Mr.  C.  Stewart  Comeaux  has  handed  me  copy  of  your  letter 
of  yehruary  22. 

I  am  rather  inclined  to  agree  with  you  in  the  matter  of  getting  Mr.  Hoover 
to  call  a  meeting.  However,  there  are  certain  angles  to  this  that  I  would  like 
very  much  to  discuss  with  you  personally. 

Will  you  by  any  chance  be  in  New  York  in  the  near  future?    If  so,  I  would 
be  glad  to  run  down  and  talk  with  you  about  it  before  taking  any  definite 
action. 
With  kind  personal  regard,  I  remain, 
Your.s  very  truly, 

H.  F.  Bexxb. 

Mr.  Beebe,  were  those  angles  that  you  referred  to  having  to  do 
with  the  proposed  calling  of  this  committee  together  to  oppose  the 
Fish  and  Burton  resolutions? 

Mr.  Beebe.  I  do  not  remember  exactly  what  the  angles  were  that 
were  referred  to  at  that  time.  There  are  a  number  of  things  that 
might  happen  to  indicate  whether  it  was  a  good  thing  or  not  a  good 
thing  to  have  a  meeting  called.  For  instance,  if  we  happened  to  know 
that  people  were  opposed  to  this  legislation  or  believed  that  a  suffi- 
cient number  were  opposed  to  it  so  it  would  never  pass,  there  was  no 
use  of  our  wasting  our  time  on  it. 

Senator  Pope.  It  would  be  unnecessary  to  call  the  committee 
together  ? 

Mr.  Beebe.  Yes.  On  the  other  hand,  if  we  thought  there  was 
something  in  it  that  might  be  detrimental  to  the  traffic  in  sporting 
arms,  or  even  in  foreign  governments'  business,  then  it  might  be 
worth  while  to  do  it. 

Senator  Pope.  I  refer  now  to  a  memorandum  or  a  letter  from  Mr. 
Aiken  Simons  to  Mr.  Beebe,  dated  February  29,  1928,  which  I  will 
offer  for  the  record  and  ask  to  have  marked  with  the  appropriate 
number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1042  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2841.) 

Senator  Pope.  This  reads,  under  the  heading  of  "  National  Legis- 
lation " : 

My  Dear  Mk.  Beieibe  :  Thank  you  very  much  for  your  letter  of  February  28  in 
reference  to  possible  action  necessary  to  preserve  the  best  interests  of  the 
American  manufacturers  of  munitions. 

I  am  afraid  you  misunderstood  the  action  that  I  suggested  in  reference  to 
Mr.  Hoover,  since  my  belief  was  and  is  that  better  results  could  be  ol)tained  if 
you,  as  chairman  of  the  committee  appointed  by  Mr.  Hoover  in  1925,  would 
write  him  a  letter  stating  the  present  situation  and  inviting  attention  to  the 
certain  hardships  which  would  be  placed  on  American  manufacturers  and  the 
equally  certain  damage  to  the  interests  of  the  national  defense.  In  this  way 
the  matter  could  be  brought  to  Mr.  Hoover's  attention  and  his  aid  secured  with- 
out publicity.  Whereas  the  publicity  necessarily  attendant  on  a  meeting  of 
American  manufacturers  at  Washington  to  oppose  a  bill  already  before  Congress 
would  be  equally  disadvantageous  to  the  mamifacturers  and  Mr.  Hoover. 

You  felt  that  any  publicity  on  the  part  of  the  manufacturers  of 
munitions  would  be  disadvantageous  in  opposition  to  the  proposed 
legislation  ? 

Mr.  Beebe.  That  is  Major  Simons'  letter  to  me. 

Senator  Pope.  Yes.     That,  of  course,  is  what  he  means? 

Mr.  Beebe.  Yes;  I  presume  so. 


2736  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Senator  Pope.  And  the  concluding  paragraph : 

I  trust  you  will  not  think  that  I  am  urging  my  own  point  of  view  too  strongly, 
but  I  really  believe  that  the  best  interests  of  all  would  be  served  if  you  would 
write  Mr.  Hoover  at  your  earliest  convenience. 
Sincerely, 

Aiken  Simons. 

Nov5^,  along  that  same  line,  on  March  5,  1928,  Mr.  Beebe,  you  wrote 
a  letter  to  the  Secretary  of  Commerce,  Mr.  Hoover,  which  I  will  also 
ask  to  be  marked  with  the  appropriate  exhibit  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1043 "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2841.) 

Senator  Pope.  The  subject,  according  to  this  letter,  is  "House  Joint 
Resolution  171."  That  was  Mr.  Burton's  resolution  providing  for 
embargoes,  was  it  not  ? 

Mr.  Beebe.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  I  do  not  recall  just  exactly  what 
that  was  now. 

Senator  Pope.  I  have  the  resolution  here — 171  was  the  Burton 
resolution. 

Mr.  Beebe.  I  guess  that  is  it  then. 

Senator  Pope.  Now,  the  first  paragraph  of  that  letter  is  as  follows : 

Dbab  Me.  Secketary  :  You  will  possibly  remember  that  in  1925  prior  to  the 
departure  of  the  delegates  of  the  United  States  to  the  Geneva  Convention  for 
the  control  of  international  trade  in  arms  and  ammunition  you  extended  an 
invitation  to  representatives  of  arms  and  ammunition  manufacturers  to  discuss 
the  economic  phases  of  the  proposed  draft. 

What  other  manufacturers  did  you  discuss  it  with?  Did  you  see 
the  members  of  that  committee  that  were  appointed  at  the  meeting 
with  Secretary  Hoover  in  1925? 

Mr.  Beebe.  My  recollection  is  that  I  did  not  see  all  of  them,  but  i 
think  I  probably  took  it  up  with  Mr.  Nichols,  of  the  Colt  Co. — I  have 
a  note  here  that  I  took  it  up  with  him — and  it  is  quite  possible  that 
I  took  it  up  with  Remington. 

Senator  Pope.  And,  of  course 

Mr.  Beebe.  Now,  just  a  minute.  I  think  I  took  it  up  with  the 
Arms  Institute,  the  Sporting  Arms  Institute.  Yes;  here  it  is.  I 
wrote  a  letter  to  Mr.  Comeaux,  of  the  institute,  stating  that — 

Again  referring  to  your  letter  of  February  3,  I  am  enclosing  copy  of  my 
letter  of  March  5  to  Secretary  Hoover  and  of  even  date  to  Maj.  Aiken  Simons. 

Now,  whether  he  sent  that  to  all  of  the  other  members,  I  do  not 
know. 

Senator  Pope.  Of  course  you  had  heard  from  Major  Simons  with 
the  suggestion  that  you  pursue  this  course,  hadn't  you? 

Mr.  Beebe.  Yes. 

Senator  Pope.  I  think  no  other  part  of  this  letter  is  necessary  to  be 
read,  unless  you  desire  it  read. 

Mr.  Beebe.  I  don't  think  there  is  any  more  necessary.  It  was  a 
straightforward  request  for  the  privilege  of  stating  our  case. 

Senator  Pope.  It  was  a  very  strong  letter  to  Secretary  Hoover,  a 
very  persuasive  letter,  requesting  he  call  the  meeting  together  again. 

Mr.  Beebe.  A  sales  letter. 

Senator  Pope.  Another  sales  letter;  yes. 

Now  I  call  your  attention  to  a  communication  from  Mr.  Thomas  R. 
Taylor  to  you,  Mr.  Beebe,  under  dat€  of  March  10,  1928,  which  I 
will  ask  to  have  marked  with  the  appropriate  exhibit  number. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2737 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1044 "  and 
appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Pope.  In  this  letter  from  Mr.  Thomas  R.  Taylor,  assist- 
ant director — by  the  way,  who  is  Mr.  Taylor,  assistant  director? 

Mr.  Beebe.  I  do  not  know.  He  is  a  du  Pont  man  writing  me  in 
place  of  Maj.  Aiken  Simons. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Thomas  R.  Taylor  ? 

Senator  Pope.  Yes;  Thomas  R.  Taylor. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  think  so. 

Senator  Pope.  Is  he  an  official  of  the  Department  of  Commerce? 

Mr.  Beebe.  Oh,  yes.    Who  is  that  from? 

Senator  Pope.  Thomas  R.  Taylor,  assistant  director? 

Mr.  Beebe.  Oh,  yes;  that  is  a  letter  from  the  Department  of 
Commerce. 

Senator  Pope.  Yes. 

Mr.  Beebe.  I  am  sorry.    I  thought  it  was  du  Pont. 

Senator  Pope.  Let  us  read  that  letter : 

Deae  Me.  Beebe:  Your  letter  of  March  5  relative  to  H.  R.  Resolution  171 
has,  in  the  pressure  of  work  upon  Secretary  Hoover  and  the  absence  of  Dr. 
Klein,  been  referred  to  me  for  attention. 

We  can  readily  recognize  the  importance  to  you  of  the  provisions  of  the 
proposed  bill,  but  I  am  afraid  that  there  is  no  action  that  this  Department 
can  take.  Opinion  on  pending  legislation  is  not  expressed  unless  specifically 
requested,  and  in  this  particular  case  noncommercial  opinion  vpould  be  of 
importance  equal  to  or  greater  than  the  strictly  commercial  viewpoint. 

I  believe  that  you  can  assume  that  hearings  on  the  bill  will  be  held  if  asked 
for  and  if  the  bill  shows  legislative  progress.  Doubtless  you  will  wish  to  get 
in  touch  with  Mr.  Burton,  the  autlior  of  the  bill,  and  with  some  (notably  Mr. 
Andrew  of  Massachusetts)  who  oppose  it. 

In  any  event,  I  am  quite  sure  that  the  Secretary  could  not  consistently  call  a 
conference  of  interested  manufacturers. 

We  are  much  interested  in  the  matter,  and  I  would  appreciate  it  if  you  will 
advise  us  as  to  the  action  you  take. 

I  simply  read  that  to  show  that  they  refused  to  call  the  confer- 
ence, the  Department  of  Commerce  did. 

Mr.  Beebe.  Yes. 

Senator  Pope.  I  now  call  your  attention  to  a  letter  from  Mr. 
Aiken  Simons  to  jou,  Mr.  Beebe,  under  date  of  March  15,  1928, 
which  I  will  also  ask  to  be  marked  with  appropriate  exhibit 
reference. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1045  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2842.) 

Senator  Pope.  Pie  says : 

My  Dear  Mr.  Beebe:  Tliauk  you  very  much  for  your  letter  of  March  13, 
with  which  you  sent  me  a  copy  of  a  letter  received  by  you  from  Mr.  Thomas  R. 
Taylor,  assistant  director  in  the  Bureau  of  Commerce,  as  well  as  your  reply  to 
Mr.  Taylor,  dated  March  13. 

I  am  sending  you  herewith  a  clipping  from  the  New  York  Tribune  of  March 
15,  which  develops  tlie  fact  that  the  Burton  resolutions  have  been  returned  to 
the  House  Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs  and  that  hearings  will  be  held  to- 
morrow morning.  Apparently  Mr.  Taylor  was  misinformed  on  the  action  of 
his  own  department  or  he  did  not  wish  to  make  a  premature  statement  of 
such  action. 

With  the  opposition  of  the  War  Department,  the  Navy  Department,  the  State 
Department,  and  the  Department  of  Commerce,  as  well  as  the  American 
Legion  and  certain  Representatives  on  the  floor,  such  as  Mr.  Andrew  of  Massa- 
chusetts, I  do  not  think  that  we  need  worry  very  much  about  the  passage  of 
these  resolutions. 


2738  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Beebe,  what  do  you  know  about  the  statement  of  Mr.  Simons, 
the  representative  of  the  du  Pont  Co.,  that  these  resolutions  had  the 
opposition  of  the  War  Department  ?    Do  you  knoAV  about  that  ? 

Mr.  Beebe.  I  do  not  believe  I  knew  about  it  at  the  time,  except 
from  his  letter. 

Senator  Pope.  Did  you  call  on  the  War  Department  and  talk  to 
any  of  the  officials  ? 

Mr.  Beebe.  I  do  not  remember  having  done  so  at  that  time.  I 
think  my  memorandum  here  would  show  it  if  I  had.  I  do  not  think 
I  have  anything-  here  on  that. 

Senator  Pope.  Mr.  du  Pont,  do  you  know  anything  about  the 
statement  of  your  agent  here  as  to  the  opposition  of  the  War 
Department  and  the  Navy  Department  and  the  other  departments? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  never  heard  about  it  until  this  hearing. 
I  never  heard  anything  about  it.  I  retired  in  1926,  and  I  was  not 
active  in  any  part  of  it.  I  could  not  possibly  know  anything  about 
it  except  from  this  exhibit  that  you  have  given  here.  But  I  think 
you  read  some  letter  a  few  minutes  ago  where  Mr.  Simons  or  Major 
Casey  had  called  on  the  different  members  of  the  Department.  I 
rather  gathered  from  the  statements  in  those  interviews  that  they 
did  not  approve  of  it. 

Senator  Pope.  This  was  several  months  later. 

Mr.  Beebe.  I  just  found  this  note: 

Article  from  Array-Navy  Journal,  March  1928.     Burton  Resolution  Opposed. 

Opposition  to  the  passage  of  the  Burton  resolution  to  prohibit  the  export  of 
war  materials,  etc.,  was  registered  with  the  House  Military  Committee  this 
week  by  the  War  Department — 

And  so  forth. 

Senator  Pope.  That  was  from  the  Army  and  Navy  magazine  ? 

Mr.  Beebe.  That  was  from  the  Army  and  Navy  Journal  dated 
March  10,  and  this  letter  of  Aiken  Simons  is  March  15.  So  ap- 
parently the  opposition  was  known  at  that  time. 

Senator  Pope.  How  about  the  Navy  Department? 

Mr.  Beebe.  I  do  not  recollect  that.  I  have  not  read  all  of  that 
article.    There  may  be  something  in  there  about  that. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Perhaps  it  is  in  the  Navy  Journal. 

The  Chairman.  No;  the  first  one  was  in  the  Army  and  Navy 
Journal. 

Wouldn't  it  be  well,  Senator  Pope,  to  have  that  editorial  or  article, 
whatever  it  was 

Mr.  Beebe.  I  think  I  have  an  extra  copy  here  that  I  can  let  you 
have. 

The  Chairman  (continuing).  From  the  Army  and  Navy  Journal 
printed  in  the  record? 

Senator  Pope.  Yes;  I  think  so,  if  you  have  an  extra  copy,  Mr. 
Beebe. 

Mr.  Beebe.  I  think  that  is  exactly  the  same  thing. 

(Article  from  Army-Navy  Journal,  Washington,  D.  C,  Mar.  10, 
1928,  is  as  follows:) 

BURTON    RESOr.UTION    OPPOSED 

Opposition  to  the  passage  of  the  Burton  resolution  to  prohibit  export  of  war 
material  to  belligerent  nations  was  registered  with  the  House  Military  Com- 
mittee this  week  by  the  War  Department  on  the  ground  that  it  "  will  aggravate 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2739 

to  no  small  degree  the  difficulty  of  accomplishment  of  an  adequate  national 
preparedness."  In  this  letter  to  Chairman  Morin,  Acting  Secretary  of  War 
Robbins  stated  that  its  provisions  were  so  broad  it  could  be  construed  as 
forbidding  the  exportation  of  rifles,  shotguns,  and  other  firearms  primarily 
intended  for  other  purposes,  and  in  addition  commercial  products  such  as 
electrical  and  optical  products,  steel,  copper,  and  starch,  and  all  articles  which 
might  be  of  assistance  in  war.    The  letter  said  in  part : 

"  It  is  the  policy  of  our  Government  to  rely  upon  American  industry  to  fur- 
nish munitions  in  the  event  of  an  emergency  instead  of  building  and  main- 
taining large  Government  arsenals  of  quasi-Government  plants.  During  the 
World  War  our  Government  arsenals  produced  less  than  10  percent  of  our 
war  requirements,  and  since  the  war  we  have  dismantled  our  Government- 
owned  armament  industry  to  the  point  where  it  is  imperative  that  a  still 
greater  reliance  must  be  made  on  private  industry  for  munitions  in  case  of  an 
emergency. 

"  If  now  we  limit  our  private  industry  by  shutting  off  its  export  trade,  we 
will  reduce  its  ability  to  furnish  our  own  necessities  in  time  of  need.  It  would 
require  a  great  expenditure  to  construct  and  maintain  Government  plants  of 
sufficient  capacity  to  meet  technical  requirements  such  as  ordnance  and  air 
craft  in  a  major  war.  In  order  to  keep  alive  the  art  of  making  munitions,  so 
that  in  case  of  emergency  private  industry  may  return  at  once  to  the  manu- 
facture of  arms  and  equipment  for  the  United  States,  bills  have  been  pre- 
sented in  the  House  and  in  the  Senate  (H.  R.  450,  5662  and  S.  1824)  to  au- 
thorize the  War  Department  to  place  educational  orders  for  small  quantities 
of  munitions  with  as  large  a  number  of  commercial  plants  as  practicable,  so 
that  the  great  potential  power  of  American  industry  may  be  rendered  promptly 
effective  in  the  event  of  war. 

The  enactment  of  the  legislation  (H.  J.  R.  183)  in  its  present  form  could 
readily  result  in  our  suppressing  the  products  and  sources  of  supply  of  arms 
vitally  necessary  to  our  national  defense.  Had  this  legislation  been  in  effect 
prior  to  the  World  War  we  would  have  been  totally  unprepared  to  enter  this 
conflict  with  our  allies  in  an  endeavor  to  uphold  what  we  considered  our 
sovereign  rights. 

The  definitions  given  in  section  3  are  dangerously  broad  and  their  effect 
would  be  to  put  an  absolute  embargo  on  an  important  division  of  our  legitimate 
foreign  trade  in  articles  which  have  not  been  and  reasonably  cannot  be  used 
in  warfare.  For  instance,  the  sweeping  terms  used  in  section  3  of  the  joint 
resolution  would  prevent  the  export  of  sporting  riflles,  shotguns,  and  firearms 
designed,  intended,  or  adapted  for  nonmilitary  purposes. 

The  provisions  of  paragraph  4  of  section  3,  combined  with  paragi'aph  8  (c) 
and  paragraphs  9  and  14,  would  effectually  cripple  a  large  portion  of  our 
electrical  and  optical  export  trade.  Practically  all  fire-control  systems  are 
dependent  upon  either  land  or  submarine  cable  of  a  commercial  type  not  ex- 
clusively designed  or  intended  for  warfare  purposes.  Practically  all  lenses 
intended  for  the  higher  grade  trade  may  be  made  use  of  either  in  cameras, 
telescopes,  or  field  glasses,  which  can  be  used  for  warfare  purposes  whether 
primarily  so  Intended  or  not. 

Paragraph  13,  from  a  practical  standpoint,  is  incapable  of  being  enforced 
without  a  total  prohibition  of  the  export  of  all  gases,  acids,  etc.,  for  the  reason 
that  the  secondaries  of  all  gases  or  acids,  the  use  of  which  is  sought  in  warfare, 
are  purely  commercial  products  whose  use  in  commercial  lines  is  far  more 
extensive  than  in  warfare. 

If  strictly  applied  the  language  of  section  3  might  be  construed  as  forbidding 
the  exportation  of  many  articles  such  as  steel,  copper,  starch,  and  other  mate- 
rials which  have  many  vitally  important  commercial  uses  merely  because  they 
are  capable  of  being  used  in  the  manufacture  of  munitions. 

Senator  Pope.  Do  you  see  in  that  Army  :ind  Navy  magazine  any 
statement  that  the  American  Legion  was  also  opposed  to  this  legis- 
lation ? 

Mr.  Beebe.  I  have  not  read  it  since  it  was  i)ut  in  this  folder.  I 
will  be  glad  to  have  you  read  it  or  try  to  read  it  myself  now. 

Senator  Pope.  Do  you  know  of  your  own  knowledge  whether  the 
American  Legion  was  opposed  to  these  embargo  acts  ? 

Mr.  Beebe.  No;  I  know  nothing  about  it.  I  might  make  this 
statement:  I  am  not  in  close  toucl\  at  all  with  matters  in  Washing- 


2740  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

ton.  I  am  up  there  in  New  Haven  and  I  hear  or  perhaps  read 
something  in  the  papers  or  perhaps  I  get  some  letters  from  some 
people  that  are  in  closer  touch.  I  examine  those  and  if  they  appear 
to  have  any  particular  points  that  we  think  are  unfair  to  our  trade 
or  our  position  in  the  matter,  I  take  it  up  with  the  proper  authorities, 
and  usually  I  go  to  the  Congressmen  or  Senators  from  our  district, 
or  whoever  is  at  the  head  of  the  committee,  or  these  other  manu- 
facturers. We  talk  it  over.  We  found,  I  think,  in  one  resolution 
there  that  if  a  man  was  found  with  a  gun  made  in  a  certain  time 
it  was  construed  that  he  had  done  something  wrong. 

Senator  Pope.  Do  either  of  you,  Messrs.  du  Pont,  know  any- 
thing about  that  opposition  of  the  American  Legion  which  your 
agent  writes  about? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  never  heard  of  it. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  never  did.  I  presume  it  was  reported  or 
published  in  the  same  manner  that  this  Army  proposition  was. 

Senator  Pope.  Are  you  acquainted  with  Mr.  John  Thomas  Taylor, 
who  was  the  legislative  agent  or  the  head  of  the  American  Legion  in 
some  capacity? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  never  have  met  him.     I  don't  know  him. 

Senator  Pope.  As  I  read  this,  I  recalled  a  statement  in  a  recent 
publication  to  this  effect : 

Another  disclQSure  which  came  years  later  was  that  John  Thomas  Taylor, 
legislative  agent  of  the  American  Legion  in  Washington,  was  also  acting  as 
treasurer  of  an  organization  of  chemical  manufacturers. 

Do  you  know  whether  he  was  ever  treasurer  of  an  organization 
of  chemical  manufacturers? 
Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  No. 
Senator  Pope.  This  goes  on : 

The  chemical  manufacturers  of  the  world  have  an  interest  in  gas  warfare. 
It  was  Taylor  who  led  the  publicity  campaign  against  the  treaty  to  abolish 
poison  gas  in  war.  Representative  Burton  of  Ohio  asked  'that  Taylor's  activ- 
ities be  investigated.  Representative  Pish  stated  it  was  Taylor  who  forced 
the  American  Legion  to  adopt  a  resolution  against  the  proposed  treaty. 

We  are  very  unfortunate  in  not  being  able  to  question  Mr.  Simons 
as  to  what  he  meant  by  the  opposition  of  the  American  Legion  to 
this  proposed  legislation.  We  are  at  a  distinct  disadvantage  because 
he  is  not  here.     He  is  still  very  ill,  isn't  he  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  thought  you  read  there  that  Taylor 
forced  the  Legion  to  oppose  this. 

Senator  Pope.  No.  I  was  reading  from  a  statement  in  a  recent 
publication  that  Taylor's  activities  be  investigated  because  he  forced 
the  American  Legion  to  oppose  the  treaty  which  would  outlaw 
poison  gas  as  an  instrument  of  war. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  That  he,  Taylor,  forced  the  Legion  to 
oppose  it? 

Senator  Pope.  Yes;  to  abolish  the  treaty.  You  knew  nothing 
about  Mr.  Taylor's  activities,  Mr.  Beebe? 

Mr.  Beebe.  I  don't  even  know  him. 

Senator  Pope.  This  letter,  "  Exhibit  No.  1045  ",  goes  on : 

My  personal  belief  is  that  any  activity  before  Congress  on  the  part  of  your 
company,  mine  or  other  munition  manufacturers,  would  prove  a  detriment 
rather  than  a  help  to  our  cause,  in  that  it  would  enable  the  pacifist  and  sedi- 
tious elements  to  claim  that  munition  manufacturers  encourage  war  and  the 
trade  in  war  material  for  their  own  benefit. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2741 

Do  you  know  what  your  agent  or  whom  your  agent  included  in 
that  term  "  pacifist  and  seditious  elements  ",  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  could  not  say. 

Senator  Pope.  Presumably  he  meant  those  who  would  oppos'v  the 
Burton  or  any  other  similar  embargo  act.  Wouldn't  you  take  it  that 
that  is  what  he  meant? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  No,  I  would  not  think  so.  Seditious  ele- 
ments are  not  such,  I  don't  believe. 

Senator  Pope.  If  he  meant  that,  you  would  not  agree  with  him  that 
those  who  might  be  in  favor  of  embargoes  would  necessarily  be  sedi- 
tious ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  He  does  not  say  that.  I  would  not  get  that 
from  that  statement. 

Senator  Pope.  I  will  read  it  again : 

My  personal  belief  is  that  any  activity  before  Congi-ess  on  the  part  of  your 
company,  mine,  or  other  munition  manufacturers  would  prove  a  detriment 
rather  than  a  help  to  our  cause — 

I  take  it  your  cause  there  was  the  opposition  to  this  legislation — 

in  that  it  would  enable  the  pacifist  and  seditious  elements  to  claim  that  munition 
manufacturers  encourage  war  and  trade  in  war  material  for  their  own  benefit. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  the  cause  there.  Senator,  is  the 
protection  of  American  industry. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  To  answer  your  question  on  that — of  course, 
it  is  all  new  to  me — this  says  it  gives  an  opportunity  to  those  two 
groups  to  put  up  that  argument.  It  does  not  say  that  others  might 
be  on  the  same  side  with  them  to  put  up  that  argument,  as  I  under- 
stand your  reading  of  it. 

Senator  Pope.  Of  course,  you  do  not  know  what  Mr.  Simons  meant 
by  that  term. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  No  ;  I  never  heard  it  before. 

Senator  Pope.  Or  what  he  meant  by  the  "  cause  "  here  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  What? 

Senator  Pope.  Or  what  he  meant  by  the  term  "  our  cause  "  here? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  gather  from  your  reading  of  it  that  he 
meant  opposition  to  this  gas-warfare  proposition. 

Senator  Pope.  Oh,  no;  this  letter  has  nothing  to  do  with  gas 
warfare. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Embargoes. 

Senator  Pope.  It  is  these  embargo  proposals, 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  had  nothing  to  do  with  it  at  all. 

Senator  Pope.  We  are  in  difficulty  again  in  that  Mr.  Simons  is  not 
here.     I  would  like  to  ask  him  about  that. 

I  will  introduce  just  one  more  letter  here,  which  is  very  brief,  just 
a  paragraph,  and  then  we  will  be  at  a  good  stopping  point.  This 
will  be  marked  the  next  exhibit  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  market  "  Exhibit  No.  1046  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2843.) 

Senator  Pope.  I  call  your  attention,  Mr.  Beebe,  to  a  letter  of  yours 
dated  March  17,  1928,  addressed  to  Major  Simons,  in  which  you  say : 

My  Dear  Major:  This  will  acknowledge  receipt  of  your  letter  of  March  15, 
enclosing  clipping  from  the  New  York  Tribune  of  that  date. 

It  is  fortunate,  indeed,  that  apparently  enough  opposition  has  developed  in 
other  directions  to  make  it  unnecessary  for  the  munition  manufacturers  to  take 
any  concerted  action. 


2742  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

The  inference  is  there  that  if  opposition  had  not  developed  in  other 
directions  sufficient  it  might  have  been  necessary  to  take  concerted 
action  ?  , 

Mr.  Beebe.  As  I  stated  before,  the  fact  that  we  appear  against  a 
certain  resolution  does  not  indicate,  certainly,  that  we  are  opposed  to 
everything  in  that  resolution,  but  it  usually  means  that  we  have  cer- 
tain changes  or  reservations  that  We  would  like  to  have  included  in 
order  not  to  cripple  us  or  be  unfair  to  us ;  and  if  the  opposition  to  the 
whole  thing  is  such  that  it  is  likely  not  to  pass,  thereis  no  need  to  our 
going  to  the  trouble  of  presenting  our  particular  objections. 

Senator  Pope.  I  understand  you. 

Mr.  Beebe.  Yes. 

The  Chairman.  The  committee  will  be  in  recess  until  10  o  clock 
tomorrow  morning. 

(Whereupon,  at  4:35  o'clock  p.  m.,  Tuesday,  Dec.  11,  1934,  the 
committee  recessed  to  meet  at  10  o'clock  a.  m.  of  the  following  day, 
Wednesday,  Dec.  12,  1934.) 


INVESTIGATION  OF  MUNITIONS  INDUSTKY 


WEDNESDAY,   DECEMBER   12,    1934 

United  States  Senate, 
Special  Committee  to  Investigate 

the  Munitions  Industry, 

Washington^  D.G. 

The  hearing  was  resumed  at  10  p.m.,  in  the  Finance  Committee 
room,  Senate  Office  Building,  pursuant  to  the  taking  of  recess,  Sena- 
tor Gerakl  P.  Nye  presiding. 

Present:  Senators  Nye  (chairman),  Clark,  Pope,  Vandenberg,  and 
Barbour, 

Present  also :  Stephen  Raushenbush,  secretary  to  the  committee. 

The  Chairman.  The  committee  will  proceed. 

FURTHER  TESTIMONY  OF  IRENEE  DTJ  PONT,  lAJOIOT  DTJ  PONT, 
AND  K.  K.  V.  CASEY 

Senator  Pope.  Pursuing  this  matter  of  any  activities  on  the  part 
of  the  different  manufacturers,  with  respect  to  legislation,  I  call  your 
attention.  Major  Casey,  to  a  letter  written  by  Mr.  Aiken  Simons 
under  date  of  April  2,  1928,  to  Mr.  Beebe.  I  will  read  a  portion 
of  that. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1047  "  and  ap- 
pears in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Pope  (reading)  : 

You  have  probably  followed  in  the  newspapers  the  opposition  which  has 
developed  to  the  Burton  resolutions  which  plan  to  hamper,  if  not  prevent,  the 
export  of  munitions  from  the  United  States. 

The  Manufacturing  Chemists'  Association  of  the  United  States  maintain  an 
office  in  Washington,  which  gets  out  bulletins  from  time  to  time.  Bulletin  no. 
224,  dated  March  26,  on  page  4  contains  the  following  information : 

"  EXPORTATION  OF  AEMS   TO  BELLIGEBANT  NATIONS 

"  Hearings  before  the  House  Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs  have  continued 
during  the  last  2  weeks  on  Representative  Burton's  resolution.  House  Joint 
Resolution  183,  to  prohibit  exportation  of  arms,  munitions,  etc.,  to  belligerent 
nations, 

"  The  most  effective  testimony  against  the  measure  was  presented  by  Secre- 
tary Davis,  of  the  War  Department,  and  Secretary  Wilbur,  of  the  Navy  Depart- 
ment, who  represented  that  a  denial  to  American  manufacturers  of  the  right  to 
export  munitions  to  belligerents  would  have  far-reaching  results  reacting 
disastrously  upon  plans  for  national  defense.  It  was  significant  that  most  of 
the  testimony  offered  at  the  hearings  was  of  entirely  disinterested  character,  no 
representatives  of  manufacturers  being  included  among  the  witnesses.  Al- 
though the  record  has  not  thus  far  shown  any  expression  of  opinion  from  the 
Department  of  Commerce  or  the  State  Department  it  is  stated  that  Secretary 
Kellogg  and  Secretary  Hoover  are  both  opposed  to  the  purpose  of  the 
resolution." 

2743 


2744  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Do  you  know  anything  about  their  position  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  have  not  the  slightest  knowledge. 

Senator  Pope.  Mr.  Simons  did  not  talk  to  you  about  that? 

Mr.  Casey.  No. 

Senator  Pope.  Or  tell  you  the  basis  for  his  information  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator,  in  this  correspondence  between  Simons  and 
me,  and  Simons  and  Comeaux,  he  was  in  reality  acting  in  the  capac- 
ity of  a  vice  chairman  of  a  committee  appointed  by  Secretary 
Hoover  in  1925,  which  had  apparently  not  been  discontinued. 

Senator  Pope.  He  was  still  an  employee  and  representative  of 
your  company? 

Mr.  Casey.  Oh,  yes ;  but  I  mean  he  was  in  a  double  position  at  this 
particular  point. 

Senator  Pope.  Do  you  know  of  any  action  by  the  officials  or  anyone 
else  in  authority  repudiating  his  activities  in  this  respect  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  No. 

Senator  Clark.  The  same  committee  reported  opposition  to  small 
arms,  but  not  military  weapons? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  know,  Senator.  But  still,  that  statement  can 
be  true.  I  think  you  would  be  irritated  if  somebody  shot  at  you  with 
a  .25  automatic. 

Senator  Clark.  It  might  be  worse  than  irritating. 

Mr.  Casey.  No  ;  you  would  probably  want  to  spank  him. 

Senator  Clark.  A  .25  bullet  with  a  soft-nosed  bullet  would  blow 
a  hole  about  as  big  as  a  silver  dollar  through  a  man,  would  it  not? 

Mr.  Casey.  If  he  were  close  enough. 

Senator  Pope  (reading  "  Exhibit  No.  1047  ")  : 

The  general  impression  is  that  sentiment  among  the  House  membership  is 
against  the  resolution  and  that  it  stands  little  chance  of  receiving  favorable 
consideration. 

Do  you  know  how  he  obtained  that  information? 

Mr.  Casey.  It  was  in  the  bulletin  of  manufacturing  chemists. 

Senator  Pope.  Do  you  know  the  basis  of  their  information  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  have  not  the  slightest  idea. 

Senator  Pope.  The  last  paragraph  is  interesting,  on  that  page. 

Please  note  the  underlined  sentence,  which  invites  attention  to  the  fact  that 
the  oppositions  to  these  resolutions  are  disinterested  which,  of  course,  is  the 
attitude  most  favorable  to  our  cause. 

I  am  sending  a  copy  of  this  to  Mr.  Comeaux  and  believe  that  he  will  give  it 
such  publicity  in  the  institute  as  he  may  deem  desirable. 
Sincerely, 

Aiken  Simons. 

Does  not  this  look  as  though  Mr.  Simons  was  following  up  the 
matter  and  sending  a  copy  to  Mr.  Comeaux,  with  the  belief  that  he 
would  give  it  publicity? 

Mr.  Casey.  Not  necessarily  with  the  belief.  Mr.  Comeaux  was 
secretary  of  the  Institute  of  Manufacturers  of  Sporting  Arms  and 
Ammunition.  Aiken  Simons  was  the  chairman  of  the  national  de- 
fense committee  of  that  institute. 

Senator  Pope.  Yes. 

Mr.  Casey.  It  was  his  job  to  keep  the  secretary  advised  of  any 
development  that  might  affect  national  defense. 

Senator  Pope.  Apparently  he  did  so. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes,  sir ;  he  should  have  done  so. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTKY  2745 

Senator  Pope.  In  the  former  hearing  I  will  read  two  or  three 
questions  and  answers  here  and  ask  you  if  you  still  think  that  this 
testimony  is  correct :  ^ 

Mr.  Casey.  Have  you  a  copy  of  Colonel  Taylor's  niemoraudum  ? 

Senator  Claek.  No;  I  have  not;  but  that  report  shows  it  was  in  connection 
with  this  embargo  resolution.  What  I  am  asking  is,  Did  you  instruct  Simons 
to  circulate  the  report  among  Government  officials? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  would  not  instruct  him  unless  that  report  was  of  interest  to 
the  Government? 

Senator  Clakk.  Did  you  instruct  him  in  this  case? 

Mr.  Casey.  In  this  case  I  do  not  know  whether  I  instructed  him  or  not. 

Senator  Clakk.  That  report  was  made  to  you. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes ;  after  the  fact. 

Senator  Clark.  So  that  your  statement  a  while  ago  that  the  du  Pout  Co.  had 
nothing  to  do  with  the  proposed  legislation  or  the  discussion  of  it  with  Govern- 
ment officials  was  not  correct,  was  it? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  said  we  made  no  attempt  to  influence  legislation.  Calling 
attention  to  the  effect  of  the  embargo  in  Europe  struck  me  as  being  of  interest 
to  the  officers  of  the  Army  and  Navy.  We  had  nothing  to  do  with  the  matter 
whatever,  but  it  was  a  question  of  advising  tliem  what  effect  this  resolution 
might  have  in  Europe,  and  that  is  a  matter  of  military  importance  to  the 
Army  and  Navy. 

Senator  Bone.  It  would  be  intensely  interesting  to  the  officers  of  the  United 
States  Army. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Bone.  And  can  yoH  tell  the  committee  whether  it  would  also  be 
interesting  to  the  people  in  the  United  States  to  know  the  effect  on  world 
politics?  Do  you  think  it  might  not  be  equally  interesting  to  the  people  in  the 
country  to  have  these  facts? 

Mr.  Caseiy.  We  would  not  be  the  proper  ones  to  give  that  out. 

Senator  Bone.  You  gave  it  to  the  Army  officers. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Bone.  Army  officers  are  not  the  only  people  who  suffer  in  case  of 
war.  The  mothers  and  fathers  of  the  boys  who  go  in  the  war  also  pay  the 
price. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Bone.  Would  you  suggest  there  is  any  lack  of  propriety  in  having 
them  know  what  was  going  on? 

Mr.  Casey.  We  were  not  the  proper  ones.  The  newspapers  were  covering 
these  matters. 

Senator  Bone.  The  people  pay  the  price  and  all  the  bills. 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Bonb.  Can  you  say  that  information  of  this  kind  should  not  go  to 
the  people  of  the  country?  Do  you  think  these  things  should  be  kept  from  the 
people? 

Mr.  Casey.  They  should  not  be. 

With  reference  again  to  the  responsibility  of  the  company  for  the 
acts  of  their  agents,  I  just  wanted  to  read  a  paragraph  or  two  of  the 
former  testimony.-  Mr.  Raushenbush  asked  this  question  of  Mr. 
Lammot  du  Pont  [reading]  : 

By  the  way,  in  this  connection  may  I  ask  the  president  of  the  company  this 
question :  A  great  deal  of  testimony  seems  to  have  been  going  into  the  record 
from  subordinate  officials  of  the  company.  May  we  understand  that  those  state- 
ments stand  as  the  official  attitude  of  the  company  unless  corrected  by  you 
on  the  stand? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Certainly.  The  conrpany  is  responsible  for  the  acts  of 
its  men. 

There  is  no  reason  to  change  that  answer,  is  there,  Mr.  du  Pont? 


1  Hearings,  Part  V,  pp.  1129,  1130. 

2  Hearings,   Part  V,  p.   1159. 

83876— 35— PT  12 8 


2746  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  That  does  not  sound  as  though  it  was  a 
direct  answer  to  the  question. 

Senator  Pope.  It  was  your  answer. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  say  it  does  not  seem  to  answer  the 
question. 

Senator  Clark.  It  seems  to  be  an  answer. 

Senator  Pope.  It  seems  to  me  a  very  clear  answer.  The  company 
is  responsible  for  the  acts  of  its  men. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  For  the  acts  of  its  men,  and  the  question 
referred  to  the  testimony. 

Senator  Pope.  I  will  read  it  again : 

By  the  way,  iu  this  connection  may  I  ask  the  president  of  the  company  this 
question :  A  great  deal  of  testimony  seems  to  have  been  going  into  the  record 
from  subordinate  officials  of  the  company — 

Like  Aiken  Simons,  I  take  it — 

May  we  understand  that  those  statertfents  stand  as  the  official  attitude  of  the 
company  unless  corrected  by  you  on  the  stand? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Certainly.  The  company  is  responsible  for  the  acts 
of  its  men. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  think  the  company  is  responsible 
for  the  opinions  or  the  statements  of  its  men  if  those  statements  are 
opinions.  Obviously  the  company  is  not  responsible  for  an  indi- 
vidual's opinion. 

Senator  Pope,  As  to  the  attitude  of  the  company  particularly  on 
this  matter  of  your  activities  with  respect  to  legislation  and  your 
opinions  with  respect  to  embargoes,  where  they  are  not  repudiated 
by  the  company,  where  you  received  reports,  you  would  say  that 
they  do  not  represent  the  attitude  of  the  company? 

Mr,  Lammot  du  Pont,  In  some  cases  those  statements  have  been 
differed  with. 

Senator  Pope,  Do  you  recall  any  statements  that  have  been  made 
by  Mr.  Aiken  Simons  here  with  reference  to  these  matters  we  have 
been  discussing  that  do  not  represent  the  attitude  of  the  company? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Made  by  whom  ? 

Senator  Pope.  Made  by  Mr.  Aiken  Simons  or  other  officials  here, 
such  as  Major  Casey. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes,  I  think  there  have  been  a  number  of 
cases.  I  cannot  recall  any  particular  one  now  where  different  repre- 
sentatives of  the  company  have  differed  in  their  opinions. 

Dr.  Sparre  had  a  very  pronounced  difference  of  opinion  the  other 
day  with  Major  Casey,  I  think,  was  it  not? 

Senator  Pope.  I  have  particular  reference,  though,  to  the  expres- 
sions of  opinion  with  reference  to  this  legislation — this  particular 
legislation  in  the  way  of  embargo.  Have  there  been  any  statements 
of  the  officials  here,  the  subordinate  officials  or  employees  of  the  com- 
pany, with  which  you  disagree  ? 

Mr,  Lammot  du  Pont.  Certainh^  There  have  been  a  number  of 
them. 

Senator  Pope,  What,  for  instance  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Oh,  I  do  not  recall  any  of  them  now.  I 
have  pointed  out  some  of  them  at  times.  Senator. 

Senator  Pope.  Let  me  in  that  connection  call  your  attention  to  a 
memorandum  by  Mr.  C.  R.  Mudge,  director,  under  date  of  April  1, 
1932,  to  Mr,  A.  Felix  du  Pont,  smokeless-powder  department. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2747 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1048  " 
and  appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 
Senator  Pope  (reading)  : 

I  am  attaching  for  your  information  H.  J.  Res.  2S2  and  report  lliereon.  This 
joint  resolution  was  introduced  bj'  Mr.  Fish  and  it  proposes  a  multilateral 
agi'eement  rpnouuciug  (he  sale  or  export  of  arms,  munitions,  or  implements  of 
war  to  any  foreign  nations. 

Then  there  is  a  pencil  memorandum,  signed  "A.  S.",  evidently  Mr. 
Aiken  Simons  [reading]  : 

Called  on  General  Hof,  Chief  of  Ordnance,  and  Admiral  Larimer  of  the 
Bureau  of  Ordnance  on  IV-6-32.  Steps  will  be  taken  to  secure  consideration 
of  the  demerits  of  this  Fish  food. 

Do  vou  know  what  steps  were  taken  there  to  present  the  demerits 
of  the^Fishfood? 

Mr.  Casey.  We  have  not  the  slightest  idea.  This  comes  back  to 
the  same  general  statement  we  have  made  repeatedly — that  we 
simply  advise  the  different  officers  of  the  Army  and  Navy  of  what 
is  going  on,  as  it  is  their  problem.  We  do  that  because  if  anything 
is  apt  to  affect  the  relationship  we  bear  to  the  principles  of  national 
defense  as  carried  out  by  The  Assistant  Secretary  of  War,  we  be- 
lieve we  are  in  duty  bound  to  notify  the  proper  people  that  there  is 
something  that  may  affect  that  general  plan. 

Senator  Pope.  Yes ;  I  know,  you  have  stated  that  several  times. 

Mr.  Casey.  We  cannot  help  but  repeat  it  every  time.  Senator. 

Senator  Pope.  What  I  am  interested  in  is  what  steps,  do  you  know, 
were  taken  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  We  took  no  steps  beyond  this. 

Senator  Pope.  Do  you  know  whether  Mr.  Simons  took  any  steps  ? 

Mr.  Casey,  But  I  say  Simons  took  no  steps  after  he  spoke  to  Hof 
and  Larimer. 

Senator  Pope.  What  do  you  suppose  he  meant,  then,  by  saying, 
"  Steps  will  be  taken  to  secure  consideration  of  the  demerits  of  this 
Fish  food"? 

Mr.  Casey.  He  was  speaking,  perhaps,  that  Hof  and  Larimer 
would  do  that.    We  were  not  having  to  do  anything  with  it. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Senator,  that  is  just  an  illustration  of  the 
expression  of  an  opinion  on  the  part  of  Mr.  Simons. 

Senator  Pope.  It  is  a  statement  of  something  jnore  than  an  expres- 
sion of  opinion. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  is  a  forecast. 

Senator  Pope.  It  is  a  statement  that  steps  will  be  taken  by  some- 
body. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  is  a  forecast ;  it  is  a  prophecy,  a  forecast. 
He  says  steps  will  be  taken. 

Senator  Pope.  Yes;  but  you  do  not  know  what  steps  were  taken, 
if  any? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  have  not  the  faintest  idea. 

Mr.  Casey.  Never  heard  anything  more  about  it. 

Senator  Pope.  Mr.  Beebe  is  not  here  this  morning,  but  he  made  a 
statement  last  night  that  the  letters  which  are  signed  by  him  or 
addressed  to  him  are  authentic. 

I  want  to  call  attention  to  a  letter  of  January  9,  1933,  addressed  by 
Mr.  Beebe  to  Mr.  F.  B.  Nichols,  vice  president  Colt's  Patent  Fire- 
arms Manufacturing  Co.,  Hartford,  Conn.,  and  it  reads  as  follows: 


2748  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Dear  Me.  Nichols  :  Confinnmg  our  conversation  of  today,  we  have  sent  the- 
following  telegram  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Navy,  Secretary  of  "War,  and 
Secretary  of  Commerce,  Washington,  D.C. : 

"  Referring  reported  proposal  of  President  to  ask  authorization  of  Congress 
to  declare  embargoes  on  shipments  of  arms  to  countries  where  hostilities  exist 
or  are  threatened,  we  earnestly  request  your  consideration  of  fact  that  it  would 
not  prevent  these  countries  obtaining  supplies  elsewhere  and  would  merely 
divert  business  needed  by  companies  like  ours  on  which  our  Nation  depends  in 
time  of  war." 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1049  "  and  ap- 
pears in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Pope.  That  was  written  by  Mr.  Beebe.  That,  you  think^ 
is  a  very  good  argument  to  present  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Navy 
against  any  embargoes? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  think  we  have  any  right  to  express  an  opinion 
on  a  letter  written  by  Mr.  Beebe,  of  the  Winchester  Co. 

Senator  Pope.  But  you  agree  with  him  in  the  argument  he  made? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  agree  with  him  when  it  is  going  to  affect  the  national 
defense;  yes. 

Senator  Pope.  Yes. 

I  now  refer  to  a  letter  of  January  20,  1933,  written  by  Roy  D. 
Chapin,  Secretary  of  Commerce,  to  the  Winchester  Repeating  Arms 
Co.,  New  Haven,  Conn. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1050  "  and  ap- 
pears in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Pope  (reading)  : 

Acknowledgment  of  your  telegram  of  Januai*y  9,  regarding  the  control  of  the 
export  of  arms,  was  delayed  until  the  situation  here  could  have  clarified 
somewhat. 

As  I  understand  your  industry  was  advised  by  the  Department  of  State,  the 
interests  of  American  manufacturers  were  carefully  considered  before  the  Sec- 
retary of  State  wrote  his  letter  of  January  6.  which  formed  the  basis  of  Presi- 
dent Hoover's  message  to  Congress  of  January  10  on  this  subject.  While  you 
have  doubtless  seen  it  in  the  press,  I  am  enclosing  copy  of  the  Presidential 
message  referred  to,  from  which  you  will  note  that  the  limitation  of  the  export 
of  arms  and  munitions  of  war  in  certain  eventualities,  which  is  therein  pro- 
posed, contemplates  the  securing  of  the  cooperation  of  other  nations.  This 
procedure  would  abviate  any  discrimination  against  American  interests. 
Sincerely  yours. 

Do  you  know  anything  about  the  matter  contained  there  with 
reference  to  the  consideration  given  by  the  Secretary  of  State? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not. 

Senator  Pope.  I  want  to  call  attention  to  a  telegram  under  date 
of  February  10,  1933,  delivered  to  W.  R.  A.  Co.,  addressed  Win- 
chester. 

(The  telegram  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1051  "  and  ap- 
pears in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Pope  (reading)  : 

C'ommittee  will  hear  you  Tuesday,  February  14,  10  o'clock  morning.  Wire 
me  immediately  name  of  persons  appearing,  title,  and  corporation  they  will 
repi'esent. 

E.  W.  Goss. 

Mr.  Goss  at  that  time  was  a  Member  of  Congress? 
Mr.  Casey.  I  believe  so. 
Senator  Pope  (reading)  : 

Note:  Responsibility  for  action  on  this  telegram  rests  upon  the  person 
receiving  this  original  copy. 

Deliver  to  H.  F.  Beebe.    Department  export. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY  2749 

Did  you  attend  the  hearings? 

Mr.  Casey.  No. 

Senator  Pope.  Or  did  any  representative  of  your  company  attend 
the  hearing? 

Mr.  Casey.  The  only  hearing  I  ever  attended  was  the  one  of  April 
1,  1925,  called  by  Hoover. 

Senator  Pope.  That  was  when  he  was  Secretary  of  Commerce  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes.    That  was  the  only  hearing  I  ever  attended. 

Senator  Pope.  I  call  your  attention  to  a  letter  written  by  Mr. 
Beebe,  to  the  Western  Cartridge  Co.,  dated  February  16,  1938. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1052  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2843.) 

Senator  Pope  (reading)  : 
(Attention  Mr.  J.  M.  Olin.) 
Subject :  House  bill  giving  power  to  the  President  to  embargo  sbipments  of 

arms  and  ammunition. 

Dear  Mr.  Olin  :  As  you  are  doubtless  aware,  when  a  bill  on  this  subject  was 
previously  passed,  Senator  Bingham  succeeded  in  having  it  recalled,  and  has 
since  been  able  to  have  it  held  up. 

The  bill  was  then  introduced  into  the  House  and  we  immediately  made  an 
effort  to  have  action  postponed  in  order  to  have  an  opportunity  to  enter 
objections. 

Senator  Clark.  Who  wrote  that  letter  ? 
Senator  Pope.  That  was  written  by  Mr.  Beebe. 

In  the  beginning  it  looked  as  if  it  was  probable  that  an  effort  would  be  made 
to  rush  the  bill  through,  and  in  order  to  bring  all  the  pressure  we  could  to  bear 
to  have  the  action  deferred  I  wired  .you  on  February  9  as  follows : 

"  Informed  probability  bill  being  introduced  House  regarding  arms  embargo 
and  regulations  exports.  Have  wired  Congressman  Goss  to  endeavor  have 
action  deferred  to  give  those  interested  opportunity  to  be  heard.  Colt  and 
Remington  working.     Suggest  you  wire  your  Congressman." 

I  discussed  this  matter  with  Mr.  Bii-ney  and  with  Mr.  Pugsley. 

Wlio  are  they,  Major  Casey? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  was  after  Western  had  bought  Winchester,  so  I 
thinly  Mr.  Birney  was  then  back  with  Winchester.  Mr.  Pugsley  was 
likewise  Winchester. 

Senator  Pope.  Representatives  of  the  Winchester  Co.? 

Mr.  Casey.  Yes. 

Senator  Pope  (reading)  : 

It  was  decided,  due  to  the  fact  that  I  previously  worked  on  similar  proposals 
that  I  had  best  go  to  Washington  and  appear  before  the  committee. 

Saturday  aftenioon  I  found  that  you  had  telephoned  to  Mr.  Pugsley,  in- 
structing him  to  attend,  and  upon  telephoning  him  that  I  would  be  glad  to 
turn  all  the  information  over  to  him,  he  stated  that  he  had  already  wired 
you  that  he  thought  it  best  for  me  to  go. 

From  the  best  Information  we  could  get,  both  before  and  after  reaching 
Washington,  it  appeared  that  the  committee  was  overwhelmingly  in  favor  of 
the  resolution  and  that  our  efforts  had  best  be  directed:  (1)  Against  giving 
too  much  power  to  the  President,  (2)  that  it  should  include  all  countries 
that  manufactured  munitions,  and  (3)  that  it  specify  more  definitely  what 
was  intended  by  arms  and  mimitions. 

I  reviewed  some  of  the  material  used  at  the  time  I  went  to  Washington 
in  connection  with  the  Geneva  Conference  and  then  drew  up  the  attached 
statement  which  was  fully  concurred  in  by  a  Remington  and  Colt  representa- 
tive. This  statement  I  made  at  the  committee  hearing  and  answered  a  few 
questions. 

Mr.  Stone,  president  of  the  Colt  Co.,  stressed  the  importance  of  industry  in 
time  of  war  and  Mr.  Monaghan  of  the  Remington  Co.  enlarged  on  the  fact 


2750  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

that   tlie   possibilities   of   embargo   would   increase   the   building   of   munitiou 
plants  in  foreign  countries. 

I  saw  in  the  morning  paper  that  the  bill  had  been  reported  out  favorably, 
with  the  slight  change  which  limited  its  application  to  North  and  South 
America.  I  know  that  when  it  reaches  the  Senate,  Senator  Bingham  will 
fight  it  tooth  and  nail,  and  I  think  a  few  friends  in  the  House,  like  Senator 
Goss — 

He  means  Representative  Goss — 

will  do  what  they  can." 

Did  you  have  any  contacts  with  Senator  Bingham  with  respect 
to  these  embargo  resolutions? 

Mr-  Casey.  I  have  never  met  Senator  Bingham. 

Senator  Pope.  Do  you  know  Representative  Goss? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  met  him  years  ago  during  the  war,  and  as  one  of 
the  officials  of  the  Scoville  Manufacturing  Co.  We  were  selling 
them  black  fuse  powder  that  they  used  in  the  making  of  combination 
fuses. 

Senator  Pope.  So  Representative  Goss  was  an  official  of  the  Sco- 
ville Co.? 

Mr.  Casey.  He  was  at  the  time  I  speak  of,  during  the  war.  I  do 
not  know  whether  he  is  still  an  offi.cial  of  theirs  or  not. 

Senator  Pope,  Wliat  business  is  the  Scoville  Co.  engaged  in? 

Mr.  Casey.  Manufacture  of  all  sorts  of  brass  goods. 

Senator  Pope.  Do  you  know  whether  Senator  Bingham  had  any 
connection  with  any  munitions  organization? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  have  not  the  slightest  idea. 

Senator  Pope.  A  statement  made  in  a  recent  publication  says: 

"The  Honorable  Edward  W.  Goss,  Representative  in  Congress  from  Con- 
necticut, members  of  the  Committee  on  Military  Affairs,  and  formerly  of  the 
ScQville  Manufacturing  Co.,  makers  of  war  supplies  in  war  time,  insisted 
America  must  sell  munitions  in  order  to  be  properly  prepared. 

"  In  other  words  ",  said  Mr.  Hull — 

a  Representative  at  the  time — 

"  you  have  got  to  foment  war  abroad  in  order  to  keep  in  practice." 

"  No,  sir,"  replied  the  Honorable  Mr.  Goss,  whose  family  is  still  with  the 
Scoville  Co. 

You  do  not  know  whether  he  is  still  with  the  Scoville  Co.  or  not? 

Mr.  Casey.  No  ;  but  the  Goss  family — the  Scoville  Co.  was  started 
in  1802,  and  I  do  not  Iniow  when  the  Goss  family  got  control,  but  I 
think  at  the  time  I  speak  of  during  the  war  there  were  al30ut  7 
brothers — G  or  7  or  something  like  that. 

Senator  Pope.  I  read  this  statement  with  reference  to  Senator 
Bingham  at  that  time,  as  to  his  position  at  that  time,  as  follows : 

In  1929  a  public  statement  was  made  that  the  position  of  Senator  Bingham 
of  Connecticut,  "As  head  of  the  National  Aeronautic  Association,  was  manipu- 
lated by  interests  profiting  largely  from  Government  aircraft  contracts.  A 
gigantic  air  trust  nnd  its  lobby  have  worked  for  the  passage  of  legislation 
that  diverted  millions  of  the  Government's  money  to  the  pockets  of  the  trust." 

There  was  no  denial  or  repudiation  of  this  statement. 

Do  you  know  whether  Senator  Bingham  was  at  the  time  referred 
to  head  of  the  National  Aeronautic  Association? 

Mr.  Casey.  I  haven't  the  slightest  idea. 

Senator  Clakk.  I  understand  he  has  been  devoting  his  time  exclu- 
sively to  that,  since  he  went  out  of  the  Senate. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2751 

Mr.  Casey.  I  know  nothing  about  it. 
Senator  Pope.  You  know  nothing  about  that? 
Mr.  Casey.  No. 
Senator  Pope  (continuing)  : 

If  you  have  any  instructions  in  regard  to  what  steps  should  be  taken,  please 
inform  me.  ir  I  do  not  hear  from  you  to  the  contrary,  I  will  continue  to 
keep  in  touch  with  the  other  nianufactui-ers  and  do  what  appears  to  be 
necessary  or  advisable. 

That  is  signed  H.  F.  Beebe. 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator  Pope,  at  the  time  a  lot  of  this  discussion  wa^, 
going  on — I  don't  know  whetlier  it  was  at  this  hearing  held  by  Mr 
Hoover  or  not — but  when  I  had  listened  to  the  position  taken  by 
certain  other  manufacturers,  I  either  made  this  statement  in  a 
letter  or  made  it  at  that  hearing :  I  said,  "  The  position  of  the  du 
Pont  Co.  is  slightly  different.  We  are  in  the  business  at  the  request 
of  the  Army  and  Navy,  and  it  is  their  fight,  not  ours." 

Mr.  Lam  MOT  du  Pont.  Senator,  might  I  ask  what  you  are  reading 
from  when  you  refer  to  this  Aeronautic  Association? 

Senator  Pope.  I  am  reading  from  a  recent  book  by  George  Seldes, 
which  is  for  general  distribution. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  What  is  the  book  ? 

Senator  Pope.  "  Iron,  Blood  and  Profits,"  by  George  Seldes. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Is  it  a  fair  statement  to  ask  whether  you 
concur  in  all  of  the  statements  in  that  book? 

Senator  Pope.  I  concur  in  some  of  them,  as  far  as  my  informa- 
tion goes. 

Senator  Clark.  I  will  say  it  is  very  well  documented  as  to  ques- 
tions of  fact. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  just  wondered  how  authentic  it  was.  I 
would  like  to  read  it,  if  you  concur  in  it. 

Senator  Pope.  I  will  be  very  glad  to  let  you  have  it,  if  you  want 
to  read  it. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Don't  give  it  to  me.  I  don't  want  to  accept 
any  bribes.  I  did  not  mean  that  disparagingly.  I  just  made  the 
suggestion. 

Senator  Pope.  I  will  make  you  a  Christmas  present  of  it. 

Senator  Clark.  A  little  Chinese  custom. 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator,  I  say  wait  until  New  Year's. 

Senator  Pope.  New  Year's? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  sounds  better. 

Senator  Pope.  Mr.  du  Pont,  I  call  your  attention  to  a  statement 
you  made  recently  or  an  excerpt  from  a  statement  made  by  you. 
It  has  no  date  on  it.  It  is  a  general  statement,  which  I  will  ask 
to  have  marked  for  reference  as  an  exhibit. 

(The  excerpt  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1053  ",  and 
appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Senator  Pope.  This  reads : 

EXCEKPT   FKOM    THE   DU    PONT   CO.    AND    MUNITIONS    PUBLISHED   BY    E.    I.    DU    PONT 

DE  Nemours  &  Co.,   Wilmington,  Del. 

I.    CHARGE   OF   OPPOSING   PEACE;    OF   FOMENTING    WAR 

For  this  charge,  we  believe  the  most  exhaustive  examination  of  the  facts 
will  show  that  there  is  no  real  foundation  whatever  in  the  activities  or  policies 
of   your   company.    The   du    Pont   Co.    employs   no   munitions    lobbyists,    at 


2752  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

home  or  abroad,  and  has  no  part  in  any  such  employment.  It  makes  no  effort 
to  mold  public  sentiment  to  its  own  ends — unless  this  sort  of  straightforward 
communication  to  persons  entitled  to  know  the  facts  must  bear  the  reproach 
of  some  such  accusation.  It  makes,  and  has  made,  no  contributions,  financial 
or  otherwise,  to  any  organized  effort  to  oppose  disarmament  or  to  promote 
any  supposed  common  interest  of  the  manufacturers  of  munitions. 

In  the  light  of  the  activities  of  Mr.  Simons  which  appeared  in 
this  testimony  the  last  day  or  two,  and  before,  where  he  made  the 
suggestion  that  this  committee  which  was  formed  in  1925  and  was 
active  there  in  opposition,  in  connection  with  the  Geneva  Disarma- 
ment Conference 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  What  conference  was  that,  you  say? 

Senator  Pope.  The  Geneva  Conference  in  1925. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  What  did  you  call  it  ? 

Senator  Pone.  The  Geneva  Disarmament  Conference  or  Confer- 
ence  for  the  Control  of  the  Traffic. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  did  not  think  that  conference  was  called 
for  the  purpose  of  disarmament. 

Senator  Pope.  Very  well;  then  Control  of  Traffic  in  Arms.  In 
view  of  the  frequent  calls  that  were  made  of  Mr.  Simons  and  by 
Major  Casey  and  the  other  activities  that  are  shown  here,  do  you 
think  that  is  a  fair  statement? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do. 

Senator  Pope.  You  do? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Casey.  Senator,  I  don't  think  we  went  far  enough,  in  fact. 

Senator  Pope.  You  did  not  make  this  statement  strong  enough  ? 

Mr.  Casey.  That  is,  at  least  as  far  as  the  military  sales  were  con- 
cerned. You  may  remember  I  have  said  in  making  these  different 
statements  about  any  legislative  matters,  I  was  only  speaking  for 
smokeless  powder.  I  do  not  know,  nor  have  I  any  responsibility  for 
what  other  departments  of  the  company  may  do. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  If  I  may  amplify  that  statement,  Senator, 
I  think  that  what  you  have  referred  to  as  activities  are  simply  the 
efforts  on  the  part  of  our  representative  to  bring  the  facts  before  the 
proper  people. 

Senator  Pope.  Do  you  regard  that  effort  as  limited  in  that  way, 
when  your  Mr.  Simons  suggested  that  they  get  this  whole  committee 
active  again,  and  following  that  suggestion  the  matter  was  presented 
to  the  Secretary  of  Commerce? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Who  was  one  of  those  proper  authorities? 

Senator  Pope.  Yes.  With  the  request  that  he  call  that  commit- 
tee together,  for  the  purpose  of  opposing  this  legislation ;  that  that  is 
merely  a  disinterested  act  of  calling  it  to  their  attention  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  the  suggestion  was  to  call  that 
committee  together  to  get  the  cross-sectional  views  on  the  subject. 
That  was  what  that  committee  was  called  for  originally,  to  get  the 
views  of  the  manufacturers.  It  was  another  case  where  the  views  of 
the  manufacturers  should  be  ])ut  before  the  proper  authorities. 

Senator  Pope.  Is  it  not  the  fact  of  the  matter  that  you  or  your 
representatives  were  using  such  arguments,  constantly  referring  to 
the  national  defense,  but  using  such  arguments  as  would  convince 
the  officials  of  the  War  and  Navy  Departments  tliat  it  was  in  the 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTEY  2753 

interests  of  national  defense,  from  the  policy  they  announced,  to  op- 
pose all  of  these  proposed  measures  providing  for  embargoes? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  saw  nothing  to  indicate  that  they  opposed 
all  measures.  They  simply  were  putting  before  the  proper  authori- 
ties the  facts  as  they  saw  them,  and  the  opinions  that  they  held. 

Senator  Pope.  The  investigation  that  we  have  given  the  matter 
here  shows  every  resolution  opposing  embargoes — and  I  have  seen 
the  most  of  them  and  have  the  most  of  them  before  me  on  the  desk 
here — that  that  has  been  the  subject  of  opposition  in  the  form  that 
has  been  indicated  here,  on  the  part  of  particularly  your  Mr.  Aiken 
Simons  and  representatives  of  other  companies. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  You  will  recall  that  the  recommendations 
of  the  manufacturers  in  the  case  of  the  Geneva  Conference  were 
confined  entirely  to  proposals  to  differentiate  between  sporting  arms 
and  ammunition  and  military  arms  and  ammunition,  except  that 
they  referred  to  the  matter  of  publicity. 

Senator  Pope.  I  think  that  is  not  a  correct  statement.  I  think  it 
is  very  much  broader  than  that,  according  to  the  testimony  given 
here,  and  certainly  the  effect  of  the  recommendations  of  the  com- 
mittee went  further  than  merely  working  out  a  reasonable  line  of 
demarcation  between  sporting  arms  and  war  arms. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  went  further  in  that  it  went  into  the 
matter  of  publicity. 

Senator,  this  was  discussed  yesterday,  and  I  looked  up  the  recom- 
mendations of  that  committee  and  read  them,  and  I  find  nothing  in 
there  except  those  two  points. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Mr.  Chairman,  the  whole  discussion,  the  min- 
utes of  the  discussion  of  that  meeting  were  put  into  the  record,  so 
that  the  attitude  of  the  representatives  of  the  companies  there  might 
be  fully  and  freely  described,  and  the  whole  question  of  licensing 
seems  to  have  absorbed  a  great  deal  of  the  attention  of  that  meeting, 
and,  as  that  exhibit  will  show,  certain  attitudes  were  taken  by  the 
Government's  members  there  as  the  result  of  the  discussion  on  that 
matter  of  licensing. 

]Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  insist.  Senator,  however,  that  it  seems 
to  me  you  are  incorrect  when  you  say  that  the  manufacturers  opposed 
all  of  these  matters  that  were  brought  up. 

Senator  Pope.  Do  you  recall  any  proposed  legislation  for  em- 
bargoes which  was  not  the  subject  of  opposition  on  the  part  of  at 
least  some  of  the  manufacturers  of  munitions  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  No,  sir ;  I  cannot  say  that  I  recall  any  legis- 
lation that  was  not  a  matter  of  consideration. 

Mr.  Casey.  I  do  not  know,  of  course,  what  other  companies  may 
have  done.  We  can  only  speak  for  ourselves.  I  again  want  to 
repeat,  because  we  were  part,  and  a  rather  important  part,  accord- 
ing to  the  Army  and  Navy,  of  their  entire  plan  for  industrial  mobil- 
ization, we  were  in  duty  bound  every  time  we  saw  an  indication, 
either  here  or  abroad,  that  might  affect  the  munitions  policy  of  the 
United  States,  to  draw  it  to  the  attention  of  the  people  who  said 
they  wanted  us  to  be  a  part  of  that  picture. 

Now,  that  is  a  fair  statement  and  true  statement. 


2754  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

QUESTION   OF  INTERNATIONAL  DISARMAMENT  IN    192  2    AND  ITS  RELATION 
TO   THE   CHEMICAL   INDUSTRY 

The  Chairman.  Mr.  Raushenbush,  what  witnesses  do  you  want 
now? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Mr.  Weston  and  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont. 

The  Chairman.  Mr.  Weston  and  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont. 

Mr.  Lammot  DU  Pont.  Mr.  Chairman,  I  am  sorry  to  say  that  Mr. 
Weston  cannot  appear  at  this  hearing  and  probably  subsequent  hear- 
ings, because  he  met  with  an  accident  on  Sunday  and  broke  his  arm. 
I  have  here  a  doctor's  certificate  to  that  effect,  if  the  secretary  wants 
to  see  it. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  He  did  not  have  heart  faihire? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  No ;  he  did  not  have  heart  trouble. 

The  Chairman.  He  did  not  have  heart  trouble? 

Mr.  Casey.  No.     The  worst  thing  was  he  was  going  to  church. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Mr.  du  Pont,  is  there  anyone  here  who  can 
stand  examination  on  the  matters  he  was  actively  engaged  in,  which 
we  started  examination  on  last  Thursday? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  think  there  is  any  individual 
present  who  can  answer  all  of  the  questions  that  Mr.  Weston  would 
be  able  to  answer  himself,  but  I  think  if  we  hear  the  questions  there 
may  be  somebody  present  who  can  answer  any  specific  one.  For 
instance,  the  question  that  was  asked  Mr.  Weston  when  he  was  on 
the  stand  before  as  to  who  the  members  of  the  American  Dye  Insti- 
tute were,  I  have  a  memorandum  here  that  gives  that. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  We  will  be  glad  to  accept  that.  The  question 
was  a  little  more  direct.  It  was,  what  people  representing  the  chem- 
ical industries  were  active  in  Washington  at  the  time,  and  Mr. 
Weston  replied  that  that  would  involve  the  whole  list  of  the  dyes 
industry.  We  hoped  to  question  him  further  about  those  papers. 
May  we  have  that  and  mark  that  an  exhibit? 

(The  information  about  the  American  Dyes  Institute  referred  to 
was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1054 '"  and  is  included  in  the  appendix 
on  p.  2844.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  We  will  also  file  the  doctor's  certificate  as 
"  Exhibit  No.  1055." 

(The  doctor's  certficate  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No. 
1055  "  and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2846.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont,  you  were  president  of 
the  company  from  1919  on,  is  that  it  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  was  president  of  the  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 
Nemours  Co.  from  1919  to  1926. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  From  1919  to  1926? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  That  is  right. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Did  Mr.  Weston  work  in  Washington  and 
abroad  under  your  orders  or  under  the  orders  of  someone  else? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  think  there  might  have  been  an  inter- 
mediary between  him  and  me,  but  I  was  at  the  time  reasonably 
familiar  with  his  activities. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Can  you  name  the  man  who  functioned  as 
intermediary? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  am  not  perfectly  sure,  but  I  think  it  was 
Mr.  R.  R.  M.  Carpenter,  who  was  his  nominal  boss.  I  think  Mr. 
Carpenter  employed  him  originally,  as  I  recall. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2755 

Mr.  KAUSHENiiusH.  What  was  Mr.  R.  R.  M.  Carpenter's  function 
in  the  company  at  the  time  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  A  good  deal  of  his  time  was  spent  on  matters 
of  personnel  and  organization.  He  had  rather  a  flair  for  that.  Be- 
fore that  time  he  had  been  head  of  the  development  department.  He 
was  also  a  member  of  the  executive  committee.  He  took  a  consid- 
erable interest  in  a  number  of  the  activities  of  the  company,  most 
all  in  the  industrial  line.  I  do  not  think  he  ever  had  anything  to  do 
with  the  military  line.  In  this  dye  situation,  to  which  you  doubtless 
refer,  he  was  active  to  this  extent,  that  he  had  an  office  next  to  mine 
and  kept  me  posted  on  any  gossip  he  heard  or  any  facts  that  came  to 
his  attention.  But  he  had  no  first-hand  activity  in  it,  as  far  as  I 
know.     I  was  the  man  that  was  on  that  job. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Did  Mr.  R.  R.  M.  Carpenter  function  in  the 
Washington  field  at  that  time  ^ 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  He  may  have  been  down  here  off  and  on  but 
he  was  not  active  in  it.  He  was  not  active  in  the  sense  that  I  was 
active  in  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  In  your  absence,  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont,  while 
you  were  excused  last  Thursday  afternoon,  we  introduced  some  ex- 
hibits relating  to  the  activities  of  Mr.  Weston,  which  I  would  like  to 
refer  to  again,  for  vour  information.  I  refer  to  "  Exhibit  No.  931  ",^ 
a  letter  of  September  22,  1921,  from  Mr.  Weston  to  Mr.  Whaley 
[reading]  : 

My  Dear  Whaley  :  You  kuow,  of  course,  that  the  chemical  industry  will 
figure  very  largely  in  the  coming  Disarmament  Conference.  The  Chemical  War- 
fare Service  will,  of  course,  be  consulted.  It  may  interest  you,  as  piece  of 
news,  to  learn  that  the  chemical  industry  as  a  whole  will  be  represented 
through  advisers  to  be  appointed  to  help  the  American  delegation  solve  its 
problems.  The  names  of  several  distinguished  chemists  are  now  under  consid- 
eration at  the  White  House  and  announcement  of  the  appointment  of  represen- 
tatives of  the  chemical  industry  probably  will  be  made  very  soon. 

For  your  private  information,  the  President  has  received  favorably  the  sug- 
gestion that  Dr.  Charles  H.  Herty  an^  Dr.  Edgar  Fahs  Smith,  former  provost 
of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania  and  president  of  the  American  Chemical 
Society,  be  named  as  advisers. 

This  was  on  September  22.  Do  you  know  when  the  list  of  advisers 
to  the  Disarmament  Conference  was  finally  made  public  at  Wash- 
ington ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  No. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  have  looked  that  up  and  find  that  it  was 
released  by  the  Department  of  State  on  November  1.  So  this  was 
about  38  days  before,  that  your  publicity  man  was  informing  Mr. 
Whaley  that  these  two  men  had  been  recommended  to  the  President 
by  the  industry.  Do  you  recall  which  one  of  those  men  was  finally 
chosen  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  is  a  matter  of  common  knowledge  that  it 
was  Dr.  Smith  who  was  chosen  to  be  on  the  technical  staff  in  regard 
to  chemical  warfare. 

In  that  connection  I  call  your  attention  to  an  exhibit  entered  on 
Thursday,  marked  "  No.  925  ^',  and  written  by  Eysten  Berg,  who  was 
identified  as  one  of  your  representatives  abroad,  from  Paris,  dated 


1  Hearings,  Part  XI,   p.  2420. 


2756  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

February  3,  1920,  to  the  du  Pont  Co.^     In  the  course  of  that  letter, 
on  the  second  page,  he  refers  to  Dr.  Herty  in  the  following  language 
[reading]  : 
As  well  Duisberg — 

Duisberg  was  head  of  one  of  the  German  chemical  companies,  was 
he  not  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  He  was  active  in  charge  of  one  of  the  Ger- 
man chemical  companies,  I  believe. 

Mr.  Raushenbush  (reading)  : 

As  well  Duisberg  as  Bosch — • 

he  was  active  in  another  chemical  company  over  in  Germany,  wasn't 
he?  ^    ^ 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  don't  know  whether  it  was  another  or  the 
same  one? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Or  the  same  one? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush  (continuing)  : 

both  of  whom  I  had  out  to  dinner  the  other  day,  were  furious  on  Dr.  Herty  and 
Dr.  Bosch  declared  that  he  would  at  once  break  off  all  negotiations  with  us 
if  we  have  anything  to  do  with  the  difficulties  raised  against  the  Germans 
dyes  in  America. 

In  a  paragraph  further  down  Mr.  Berg  goes  on  [reading]  : 

The  whole  discontent  is  due  to  the  fact  that  the  Germans  have  been  of  the 
opinion  that  Dr.  Herty  belongs  to  our  company,  and  that  all  measurements 
taken  in  America  against  the  German  dye  interests  originate  from  us. 

That  seems  to  indicate  that  the  Germans  at  least  made  the  mis- 
take of  identifying  Dr.  Herty  for  your  company  representative; 
doesn't  it? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  don't  know  whether  it  does  or  not.  That 
is  what  they  apparently  said  they  though. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  seems  they  made  that  mistake. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  seems  they  made  that  mistake  or  had  that 
impression. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  Dr.  Herty  never  was  employed  by 
the  du  Pont  Co. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  No  ;  the  point  of  the  letter  seems  to  be  that  he 
was  active  in  Europe  to  the  extent  that  at  least  the  Germans  thought 
that  he  did  belong  to  the  company. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  They  made  that  mistake  then. 

Mr.  Raushekbush.  Then  another  exhibit  was  introduced,  labeled 
"  No.  932 ",  dated  November  9,  1921,  which  is  a  letter  from  the 
Wlialey-Eaton  Service  to  Mr.  Frank  Byrne  of  your  company,  who 
is  identified  as  assistant  to  Mr.  Weston.-     The  first  paragraph  reads : 

Referring  to  your  telephone  inquiry  in  regard  to  the  members  of  the  French 
delegation  experts  on  chemical  disarmament. 

The  last  paragraph  reads: 

We  thiidc  it  very  unlikely  that  we  will  be  able  to  get  any  of  the  details  of  the 
plan  for  chemical  disarmament  from  these  gentlemen,  but  we  will  do  our  best. 

There  seems  definitely  from  that  letter  to  be  an  indication  that 
the  company  was  interested  in  finding  out  in  advance  of  the  con- 


1  Hearings,  Part  XI,  p.  2415. 
=>  Hearings,  Part  XI,  p.  2420. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2757 

ference  the  ideas  of  the  French  delegation  on  chemical  disarmament ; 
isn't  that  correct? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  A  reasonable  inference. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  A  reasonable  inference? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  refer  again,  for  your  information,  to  an  ex- 
hibit that  was  introduced  on  Thursday,  labeled  "  No.  933  ",  dated 
November  25,  1921,  being  a  memorandum  from  Mr.  "Weston,  the  head 
of  your  publicity  department,  to  Mr.  Poucher.^  Mr.  Poucher  was 
identified  as  a  vice  president  of  the  company  at  that  time.  Is  that 
correct  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Mr.  Poucher  was  employed  by  the  company 
at  that  time,  I  think,  but  I  do  not  recall  that  he  was  a  vice  president. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Well,  he  was  an  employee  of  the  company  who 
had  traveled  for  you  in  Europe. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Yes, 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  memorandum  begins  [reading] : 

I  am  informed  through  the  Washington  "  grapevine  "  that  the  British  dele- 
gation to  the  Limitation  of  Armaments  Conference  has  a  plan  to  submit  con- 
cerning the  chemical  industry  which  embodies  these  points : 

First,  to  outlaw  the  use  of  poison  gas  in  warfare  and  to  outlaw  as  far  as 
possible  anything  of  a  dangerous  chemical  nature : 

Second,  failing  to  secure  drastic  action  (as  they  expect  to  fail)  to  limit 
the  use  of  chemicals  as  much  as  possible ; 

Third,  to  put  the  chemical  industries  of  the  various  nations  under  the  con- 
trol of  the  governments. 

Mr.  du  Pont,  Mr.  Weston  did  not  feel  able  to  answer  some  of  the 
questions  asked  him  about  this,  and  I  wonder  whether  you  would 
feel  free  to  do  so.  This  letter  would  certainly  seem  to  indicate  an 
interest  in  what  the  British  delegation  had  to  offer  on  the  subject  of 
chemical  warfare,  would  it  not? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Now  you  are  going  too  fast  for  me.  I 
never  saw  this  letter  that  I  recall  before.  Is  this  a  whole  letter  or  is 
it  an  excerpt  ?    It  is  not  signed. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  We  have  it  signed  with  initials  here,  and  that 
seems  to  be  the  whole  memorandum. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  C.  K.  W.    It  looks  like  Weston. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  is  a  memorandum. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Oh,  yes;  from  Weston,  yes.    What  about  it? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  asked  whether  it  was  not  a  reasonable  infer- 
ence that  there  was  considerable  interest  in  the  ideas  of  this  British 
delegation  before  the  Conference. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  This  seems  to  be  a  rumor.  As  I  understand 
the  "  grapevine  "  means  rumors  coming  through  all  sorts  of  channels. 

Senator  Clark.  Who  was  the  Washington  grapevine,  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  could  not  tell  you  what  the  Washington 
grapevine  is.  I  thought  it  was  simply  a  wandering  source  of  rumors 
in  regard  to  something.  I  don't  know  what  your  grapevine  is.  The 
only  kind  we  have  is  the  kind  that  we  get  grapes  off  of  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  Mr.  Weston  testified  what  was 
meant  by  that  expression.  He  said  it  was  the  aggregate  of  the  rep- 
resentatives of  the  chemical  manufacturing  concerns  who  were  fre- 
quently in  Washington  at  that  time,  and  when  asked  who  those  men 


1  Hearings,  Part  XI,  p.  2421. 


2758  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

were  he  said  he  did  not  recall  but  would  get  a  list,  and  I  just  handed 
your  secretary  the  list. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  notice  that  this  other  letter  is  concerned 
with  Whaley-Eaton.  That  is  a  news  bureau  that  tried  to  get  in- 
formation ahead  of  time  and  possibly  had  information  that  they 
used  to  try  to  get  ahead  of  time.  I  think  the  boys  from  the  press  here 
always  like  to  get  a  little  advance  information.  But  the  point  I  make 
is  that  this  is  a  rumor.  "Wliether  it  is  true  or  not,  I  do  not  know.  I 
never  saw  anything  authentic  about  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Did  you  or  anyone  in  your  company  receive 
any  direct  information  from  the  Nobel  Co.  or  other  British  chemical 
interests  as  to  the  plans  of  the  British  delegation  in  advance  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  recall  it  at  this  time. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  According  to  those  first,  second,  and  third 
items  listed  there  with  some  apparent  definiteness,  the  British  delega- 
tion seemed  to  have  a  direct  idea  of  the  importance  of  limiting  the 
chemical  industry;  isn't  that  a  reasonable  inference? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  On  the  face  of  that,  Mr.  Secretary,  the  word- 
ing of  this  is  evidently  not  very  accurate.  The  first  part  anybody 
could  understand,  to  outlaw  the  use  of  poison  gas.  I  believe  that  was, 
however,  outlawed  before  the  start  of  the  World  War  and  Germany 
did  not  have  any  compunctions  about  using  it,  showing  that  outlaw- 
ing does  not  always  have  the  hoped  for  effect.  But  the  balance  of  it, 
"  To  outlaw  as  far  as  possible  anything  of  a  dangerous  chemical  na- 
ture ",  strictly  speaking,  and  I  think  generally  speaking,  dynamite 
is  a  dangerous  commodity,  so  construed  by  the  Interstate  Commerce 
Commission.  That  would  outlaw  dynamite,  and  I  suppose  by  the 
same  inference  blasting  caps  and  everything  of  that  kind  would  have 
to  be  outlawed.  Evidently  that  is  the  intent  of  this  thing,  according 
to  what  the  words  say. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Without  spending  too  much  time  upon  that 
question  of  the  nice  distinctions  of  what  is  chemical  and  what  is  not, 
which  would  take  far  too  much  paper  and  ink  than  would  be 
proper  in  a  brief  summary  of  it,  you  stated  that  you  did  not  hear 
from  the  English  chemical  interests  as  to  why  the  British  delegation 
is  reported  as  expecting  to  fail. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  did  not  say  that,  sir.  I  say,  I  have  no 
recollection  of  it.  I  may  have  at  the  time,  but  I  have  completely 
forgotten  it  if  I  did.  We  were  having  a  fight  right  here  on  our  dye 
industry. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  There  are  only  a  few  more  exhibits  to  which  I 
want  to  refer,  which  have  already  been  entered,  but  to  get  the  story 
started  again  so  that  we  can  get  the  present  explanations  from  you,  I 
wish  to  refer  again  to  an  exhibit  numbered  "  No.  909  ",  being  a  letter 
from  Mr.  Weston  to  Mr.  Charles  A.  Meade,  vice  president  of  the 
company,  dated  London,  December  10,  1920.^     It  begins  [reading]  : 

Deimi  Mr.  Meade  :  My  mission  seems  to  be  going  fairly  well ;  I  have  met  a 
number  of  our  American  newspaper  correspondents  and  have,  I  think,  suc- 
ceeded in  selling  them  our  idea.  One  cannot  tell,  of  course,  until  the  results 
begin  to  appear  in  American  newspapers. 

I  am  sending  you  clipping  giving  details  of  the  debate  in  the  House  of  Com- 
mons, along  with  other  matter  which  I  think  is  interesting. 


1  Hearings.  Part  XI,   p.  2397. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2759 

I  skip  a  paragraph.     [Eeading:] 

I  believe  that  the  great  strong  point  to  be  brought  out  by  our  frieuus  in  the 
United  States  Senate  is  that  with  Japan,  France,  and  England  all  protecting 
their  dye  industries,  the  United  States  is  left  as  the  only  hope  for  the 
Germans.  They  will,  without  doubt,  concentrate  over  there  and  give  us  a 
particularly  hard  fight. 

I  skip  to  the  first  paragraph  on  the  second  page  [reading]  : 

I  shall  remain  here  next  week  to  see  this  bill  through  and  to  continue  my 
efforts  to  stoke  up  the  interest  of  those  whom  I  came  to  see. 

The  correspondents  in  Paris  report  to  the  offices  here,  so  it  is  apparent  that 
if  the  men  in  London  get  the  right  angle  it  will  be  wonderfully  helpful. 

In  Paris  I  shall  devote  my  energy  very  largely  to  bringing  the  correspondents 
in  contact  more  closely  with  the  American  sources  of  news,  at  the  same  time 
trying  to  give  them  the  proper  angle  so  that  they  will  appreciate  the  importance 
of  the  news. 

Was  Mr.  Weston  in  London  on  your  orders,  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  He  was  certainly  there  with  my  assent. 

Mr.  Kaushenbush.  Would  it  have  been  Mr.  Carpenter  who 
ordered  him  over  there,  if  it  were  not  directly  under  your  orders, 
or  would  it  have  been  Mr.  Meade  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know.  He  might  have  gone  at 
the  instigation  of  one  or  the  other,  but  I  was  a  party  to  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  In  a  letter  entered  as  "  Exhibit  No.  927  'V  'i 
memorandum  from  Mr.  Poucher  to  the  publicity  department,  the 
results  of  Mr.  Weston's  work  seem  to  be  indicated,  and  I  want  to 
call  your  attention  particularly  to  their  character.     [Reading:] 

I  received  a  letter  today  from  Mr.  Weston,  from  London,  dated  December 
17,  together  with  some  clippings  from  the  London  papers  of  various  dates  be- 
tween December  3  and  17.  I  think  we  are  beginning  to  see  some  results,  for 
example:  The  article  in  the  Boston  Transcript  issued  December  31,  page  6, 
under  this  heading : 

"  BRITAIN  FORESEES  '  GAS  '  WAB 

"  New  legislation  will  shut  out  dyestuffs  and  enable  plants  to  be  built  which 
can  be  converted  into  poison-gas  factories." 

Those  seem  to  be  the  headlines.  The  article  is  quoted  further 
under  the  heading  of  "  London,  December  31."     [Reading :] 

That  poison  gas  will  be  the  supreme  weapon  in  the  next  war  is  accepted  by 
the  Government.  This  is  the  inference  drawn  from  the  passage  of  the  dye- 
stuffs  import  regulations  act,  which  prohibits  the  importation  of  dyestuffs  tor 
the  next  10  years.  During  this  period  England  will  be  enabled  to  build  up 
her  dye  industry  to  a  point  of  absolute  dependence  from  the  outside  world. 

Dye  plants,  by  a  slight  change,  can  be  readily  converted  into  war  plants  for 
the  manufacture  of  poison  gas.  When  the  World  War  began  in  1914,  England 
had  very  few  dye  works,  but  Germany  was  full  of  them.  Hence,  the  British 
had  to  build  the  factories  for  the  making  of  poison  gas,  while  the  Teutons 
had  everything  ready.  The  conversion  of  the  numerous  dye  plants  into  gas 
plants  was,  practically  speaking,  the  work  of  only  a  few  hours. 

Mr.  Poucher  apparently  goes  on  [reading]  : 

I  notice  that  this  heading  follows  very  closely  the  one  in  the  London  Evening 
Standard  of  December  7, — giving  some  more  headlines :  "  Poison  Gas  and  tlie 
Next  War  ",  "  Nations  Experimenting  Already  ",  "  British  Position  ",  "  Gases 
in  Warfare  ",  "  Value  of  a  Highly  Developed  Chemical  Industry." 


1  Hearings,  Part  XI,  p.   2416. 


2760  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

That  is  the  end  of  his  quotation.    He  says : 

This  is  the  right  line  and  it  must  be  pushed  hard  on  this  side.  I  suggest 
that  you  look  out  for  any  statements  or  reports  from  General  Fries.  They 
will,  of  course,  be  quite  in  line  with  the  foregoing. 

Mr.  du  Pont,  did  you  read  Mr.  Weston's  testimony  on  Thurs- 
day? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  did,  but  I  did  not  have  the  exhibits,  and  it 
made  a  little  bit  of  a  ragtime  to  me,  because  I  could  not  follow  what 
they  were  talking  about.  Maybe  it  was  ragtime  anyhow.  Is  that 
what  you  mean  ? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  felt  that  the  questioning  had  been  too  fast. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  In  jumping  from  one  day  to  another,  the 
topics  were  entirely  different.  For  instance,  the  fixation  of  nitro- 
gen, fixed  nitrogen  never  having  been  manufactured  in  this  country 
before  that  time. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  was  going  to  state  that  the  questioning  was 
apparently  too  fast  and  the  report  on  Thursday  is  very  hard  for 
anyone  to  read. 

In  further  connection  along  the  line  of  the  activities  of  Mr.  Wes- 
ton over  there  for  our  interest,  because  of  these  articles  coming  over 
here,  about  "  Britain  Foresees  '  Gas  '  War  "  and  the  like,  there  is  a 
further  memorandum  from  him  entered  as  "  Exhibit  No.  928  ",  dated 
January  15,  1921,  to  Mr.  Weston  from  his  assistant.^     [Reading:] 

Recently  there  have  appeared  a  number  of  dispatches  in  the  American 
papers  along  the  lines  that  are  very  desirable  to  us.  These  look  to  me  as 
if  they  have  been  cabled  to  this  country  as  a  result  of  your  visit  to  the  other 
side. 

(1)  The  Boston  Transcript  of  December  31,  1920,  carried  a  fine  story  on 
"  Britain  foresees  gas  warfare  ",  dated  from  London. 

(2)  The  Washington  Herald  had  a  cable  dispatch  written  by  Wythe  Wil- 
liams from  Paris  about  German  dye  plots  against  the  United  States.  This 
was  taken  up  by  the  Manufacturers'  Record  and  made  the  subject  of  a  splendid 
full-page  editorial. 

(3)  The  Evening  Bulletin  had  a  dispatch  from  London  talking  about  the 
importance  of  the  British  action  passing  the  dye  bill  and  its  relation  to 
American  alfairs. 

(4)  The  Public  Ledger  of  January  8,  1921,  had  a  dispatch  from  Paris  about 
"  Germany  Sets  Dye  Trade  Trap." 

These  dispatches,  of  course,  are  syndicated  in  many  cases  to  appear  in  differ- 
ent places  throughout  the  country,  so  that  the  publicity  on  these  four  items 
I  mentioned  must  have  been  very  considerable. 

Now,  Mr.  du  Pont,  do  you  remember  whether  Mr.  Weston  was 
also  in  France  at  the  time?  I  believe  we  had  an  exhibit  to  the 
effect  that  he  was.    Do  you  remember  that  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  That  is  pretty  difficult 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Do  you  happen  to  remember  about  his  French 
visit  ?     That  is  the  question  I  am  raising. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  No  ;  I  do  not.  That  was  a  separate  one  from 
the  one  to  England  ? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  We  went  from  London  to  Paris,  according  to 
the  exhibits. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  would  not  be  at  all  surprised. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  And  the  testimony  indicated,  and  we  had  the 
story  of  his  educating  newspaper  correspondents  in  Paris,  and  some- 
what similar  stories  coming  from  abroad. 


1  Hearings,  Part  XI,  p.  2417. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY  2761 

The  question  I  want  to  ask  here  is :  was  Mr.  Weston  in  England 
watching  the  debate  in  the  Commons  and  sending,  or  hoping  to 
send,  those  stories  over  here,  and  keep  interest  "  stoked  up  ",  to  use 
his  phrase?  ^  Was  he  over  there  in  the  interest  of  American  defense? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  think  he  was ;  yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Was  he  there  at  all  in  the  interest  of  British 
defense  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Not  that  I  know  of.  I  cannot  see  what  our 
interest  would  be  in  the  British  defense,  although  they  had  been 
allies  until  very  recently.  There  is  no  question  that  the  organic 
chemical  industry  and  its  relation  to  preparedness  in  modern  warfare 
was  very  little  appreciated  in  this  country  up  until  1919,  when  these 
first  hearings  came  before  Congress.  It  was  felt,  and  I  concurred 
in  that  feeling,  that  people  must  be  brought  to  the  realization  of 
what  the  potential  results  of  the  chemical  industry  can  be,  not  only 
in  warfare  but  in  peace. 

I  think  that  the  whole  theory  of  a  closely  knit  chemical  industry 
was  beyond  any  question,  but  very  feAv  people  knew  anything  about 
it  in  this  country.  I  will  undertake  to  say  you  people  here  have 
not  the  least  apprehension  of  what  the  chemical  industry  has  in  store 
for  humanity,  and  what  it  has  already  accomplished.  I  am  sure  on 
that.  I  had  an  education  in  chemistry,  and  as  early  as  1905  I  went 
to  Mr.  T.  C.  du  Pont,  the  president  of  the  company,  and  told  him 
my  dream,  that  we  ought  to  concentrate  on  the  chemical  industry, 
and  the  way  to  do  it  was  to  get  every  chemical  industry  in  the 
United  States  together  and  make  progress  in  that  way.  He  thought 
it  was  a  good  idea,  but  about  that  time  the  Government  brought  a 
suit  against  us  for  being  a  trust,  so  that  it  was  impossible  to  do  it, 
and  the  matter  was  dropped.  But  I  have  been  intensely  interested 
m  it  all  my  life. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  These  headlines,  for  which  some  credit  is 
taken,  in  the  British  papers,  and  which  Mr.  Poucher  describes  as 
being  along  the  right  line,  and  should  be  pushed  on  this  side,  such  as : 

Britain  Foresees  "  Gas  »  War,  New  Legislation  Will  Shut  Out  Dyestuffs  and 
Enable  Plants  to  Be  Built  Which  Can  Be  Converted  into  Poison-Gas  Factories— 

To  what  extent  would  your  answer  about  chemistry  being  your  dream 
bear  on  the  results  of  your  agent's  work  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  As  my  dream  of  1905  did  not  have  any 
results,  I  never  heard  of  it,  and  I  doubt  if  anyone  else  had. 

Senator  Clark.  It  is  more  of  a  nightmare  than  a  dream,  is  it  not  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  think  it  is,  but  what  are  you  going  to  do 
about  it  ?  The  Germans  started  out  with  a  waive  of  chlorine  which 
was  so  effective  against  the  British  that  if  they  had  had  more,  they 
could  have  wiped  off  the  armies  of  the  continent,  but  they  did  not 
know  how  much  was  needed.  People  think  that  one  airplane  can 
go  over  New  York  and  drop  gas  and  put  the  city  out  of  business, 
but  it  would  take  a  great  deal. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  How  much  would  they  need  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know,  but  I  know  one  airplane  will 
not  drop  enough  poison  gas  to  affect  everybody  in  town.  That  is 
exaggerated  It  has  very  great  power,  and  if  you  have  a  sufficient 
fleet  ot  airplanes  with  poison  gas  and  incendiary  bombs,  there  is  no 
doubt  but  that  the  population  will  be  in  a  very  bad  way. 

83876 — 35— PT  12 — —9 


2762  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Senator  Clark.  I  read  somewhere  that  an  eminent  physicist  said 
it  would  take  100  airplanes  over  Paris  to  blanket  Paris  with  a  blanket 
of  poison  gas  100  feet  thick. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  would  have  to  be  pretty  dilute.  A  blan- 
ket of  gas  100  feet  thick  over  Paris  would  be  an  awful  lot  of  gas. 

Senator  Clark.  I  cannot  pronounce  his  name,  but  it  was  a  very 
interesting  article. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  The  answer  is,  nobody  knows  the  answer  to 
it,  but  we  do  know  it  is  enough  to  be  serious. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  If  you  want  to  get  into  this  kind  of  ques- 
tioning, I  think  you  ought  to  permit  one  of  our  practical  chemists  to 
testify  on  the  practical  end  of  chemistry  which  we  are  discussing. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  original  question  was  whether  your  agent, 
stimulating  interest  in  newspaper  headlines  of  this  character,  which 
came  over  to  this  country  in  various  forms,  and  also  in  France,  was 
over  there  in  the  interest  of  our  national  defense  or  British  national 
defense. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  He  was  over  there,  I  think,  entirely  in  our 
interest.  He  had  no  interest,  particularly,  in  the  British  national 
defense,  except  that  they  had  been  allies. 

Mr.  ErAUSHENBUSH.  When  he  went  to  France  and  did  the  same 
thing,  he  was  not  there  in  the  interest  of  the  French  national  de- 
fense ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  am  quite  sure  he  was  not.  I  never  heard 
of  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  He  was  there  in  the  interest  of  American  na- 
tional defense? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  The  du  Pont  Co.    We  were  paying  him. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Let  me  ask  you  whether  he  was  not  interested 
in  having  England  and  France  protect  their  chemical  industries, 
their  own  chemical  industries. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Was  he  interested  ? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Was  he  not  interested? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  did  not  know  it.  I  did  not  read  that 
there. 

Mr.  Garvan.  Mr.  Chairman,  I  do  not  want  to  interrupt,  but  I  also 
do  not  want  to  sit  quiet  and  have  the  inference  remain  that  I  did 
keep  quiet.  Mr.  Weston  went  to  Europe  at  my  request  and  under 
my  direction. 

The  Chairman.  What  is  your  name? 

Mr.  Garvan.  Francis  P.  Garvan.  At  that  time  I  was  Alien  Prop- 
erty Custodian,  if  it  is  after  March  4,  1919,  from  March  4,  1919  to 
1921  I  was  Alien  Property  Custodian.  Mr.  Weston's  activity  I  am 
ready  to  explain  at  any  time.  I  did  not  want  to  have  the  wrong 
inference  drawn  by  sitting  quiet. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  We  will  pass  that  up  now. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  did  not  send  Mr.  Weston  myself,  but  I 
certainly  assented  to  it.  I  had  forgotten  that  Mr.  Garvan  used  his 
influence  to  get  Mr.  Weston  on  that.  I  had  forgotten  that  entirely. 
I  have  no  doubt  he  is  quite  correct. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Did  the  company  pay  Mr.  Weston's  expenses 
while  he  was  there  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  presume  so. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2763 

Mr.  RAusHENBtJSH.  What  Mr.  Weston  seems  to  be  interested  in 
watching  and  getting  articles  out  about,  Mr.  du  Pont,  is  the  appar- 
ent protection  for  their  chemical  industries  which  England  and 
France  were  at  that  time  considering,  and  my  question  was,  there- 
fore, whether  he  was  interested  in  the  British  national  defense  or 
the  American.  You  answered,  Not  in  the  British,  and  also  Not  in 
the  French. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  think  indirectly  that  if  Great  Britain  took 
steps  to  do  this  sort  of  thing,  it  would  be  a  very  good  lead  for 
America  to  follow,  and  if  Great  Britain  and  France  were  doing  it, 
the  United  States  ought  to,  so  that  indirectly  he  might  have  an  inter- 
est in  it,  but  he  certainly  did  not  go  over  there  in  behalf  of  the 
British  dye  people,  that  I  know  of. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Certainly  articles  of  that  kind,  about  "  Britain 
forsees  '  gas  '  war  "  and  "  New  legislation  will  shut  out  dyestuffs  and 
enable  plants  to  be  built  which  can  be  converted  into  poison-gas 
factories  "  may  have  had  an  influence  on  American  public  opinion  as 
to  the  whole  question  of  gas  warfare. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  thing  that  was  exactly  what  it  was  for, 
to  awaken  public  opinion  to  the  seriousness  of  that  situation. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  And  that  was  in  the  years  prior  to  our  dis- 
armament conference  here,  which  the  President  invited  the  nations 
of  the  world  to  attend,  and  in  the  course  of  which  he  mentioned  the 
subject  of  poison  gas  as  a  possible  subject  for  discussion. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  What  year  was  that?     I  do  not  recollect. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  was  on  August  11,  1921,  that  the  President's 
invitation  went  out,  containing  in  it  this  clause : 

It  may  also  be  found  advisable  to  formulate  proposals  by  which  in  the 
interests  of  humanity  the  use  of  new  agencies  of  warfare  may  be  suitably 
controlled. 

From  that  the  so-called  "  treaty  on  poison  gases  "  was  drawn. 

This  was  at  a  time  preceding,  and  all  I  was  asking  about  was  the 
creation  of  a  public  opinion  at  that  time  which  made  not  only  the 
people  in  France  and  England  aware  of  the  whole  question  of  pro- 
tecting their  chemical  industries,  but  also  the  people  in  the  United 
States. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  was  aimed  at  the  people  in  the  United 
States.  These  messages  went  to  the  people  in  the  United  States. 
There  are  United  States  publications. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  This  is  aimed  at  the  people  in  the  United 
States.  Before  I  get  to  another  question,  did  you  ever  get  any  re- 
ports that  any  other  American  industries  were  over  there  doing  the 
same  thing  at  the  same  time? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  recall  it  unless  Mr.  Garvan,  on  be- 
half of  the  Chemical  Foundation,  might  have  done  so.  I  do  not 
know.    I  do  not  recollect. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Outside  of  the  chemical  industry,  was  any 
other  American  industry  "  stocking  up  "  interest  in  the  national  leg- 
islation of  either  England  or  France  in  behalf  of  our  American 
defense  at  that  time? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  get  what  you  are  driving  at.  I 
do  not  recall  any  of  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  You  did  not  run  into  any  farmers'  representa- 
tives over  there  who  were  doing  the  same  thing  at  the  same  time  ? 


2764  MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  did  not;  no,  sir. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  In  "  Exhibit  No.  915  " — and  this  is  the  last 
of  those  to  which  I  refer  as  having  already  been  introduced,  I 
believe — your  publicity  manager,  Mr.  Weston  ^ 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  What  is  the  date  of  it? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  is  dated  March  25,  1921.  Your  publicity 
manager  writes  to  an  employee  in  Washington  by  the  name  of  Mc- 
Neely,  and  I  quote  from  the  middle  of  the  second  paragraph  [read- 
ing]: 

The  clauses  in  the  peace  treaty  virtually  require  the  construction  of  plants 
in  Germany.  If  this  cannot  be  accomplished,  then  the  next  best  thing  is  to 
have  similar  plants  built  here  so  that  we  may  produce  the  new  chemical  war 
munitions  to  offset  the  protluction  in  an  enemy  country, 

I  skip  a  paragraph  and  continue : 

I  think  with  the  present  unsettled  condition  of  world  affairs,  and  with 
Germany's  attitude  toward  the  peace  treaty  arguments  based  on  the  question 
of  disarmament  are  very  much  stronger  than  any  others. 

The  middle  paragraph  I  skipped  is,  perhaps,  important,  and  reads : 

It  is,  of  course,  a  fact  and  is  quite  apparent  that  American  dye  manufac- 
turers want  to  protect  and  develop  their  industry  as  a  business  proposition,  but 
we  want  more  than  the  ordinary  tariff  for  the  reason  that  this  is  an  intricate 
industry  and  cannot  l)e  developed  except  under  unusual  conditions.  It  really 
requires  the  absolute  embargo  of  competitive  products  so  that  we  can  secure 
an  income  over  the  sale  of  these  which  will  be  sufficient  to  pay  for  the  devel- 
opment of  the  products  which  we  have  not  yet  learned  to  make. 

The  point  I  want  to  make   is   in   the  third   paragraph: 

I  think  with  the  present  unsettled  condition  of  world  affaire,  and  with 
Germany's  attitude  toward  the  peace  treaty  arguments  based  on  the  question 
of  disarmament  are  very  much  stronger  than  any  others. 

That  is,  in  short,  saying  that  here  in  the  publicity  at  this  time 
you  were  stressing  the  war  aspect  of  the  chemical  industry  in  much 
the  same  way  it  was  being  stressed  in  Britain  and  in  France.  Is 
not  that  a  correct  inference? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  am  not  certain  what  he  talks  about. 
[Reading :] 

I  think  with  the  present  unsettled  condition  of  world  affairs,  and  with  Ger- 
any's  attitude  toward  the  peace  treaty  arguments  based  on  the  question  of 
disarmament  are  very  much  stronger  than  any  others. 

I  do  not  know  just  what  he  means  by  that. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  May  I  refer  back  to  a  good  many  exhibits 
introduced  on  last  Thursday,  showing  the  general  trend  of  the  times, 
notably  the  exhibits  before  and  after  "  Nos.  914  and  916?  " 

There  is  a  letter  written  from  Mr.  Weston  to  Mr.  Shipp,  on  October 
1,  1921,  which  I  wish  to  offer  for  the  record,  with  the  appropriate 
number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1056  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2846.) 

The  letter  reads : 

My  Dear  Mr.  Siiipp  :  Please  do  not  arrange  to  visit  Mr.  Cone.  I  think  I 
have  already  arranged  that  matter  satisfactorily. 

The  question  of  advisers  to  the  disarmament  commissioners  is  also,  I  think, 
well  in  hand. 


1  Hearings,  Part  XI,  p.  2406. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2765 

What  light  can  you  throw  on  that  "  The  question  of  advisers 
to  the  disarmament  commissioners  is  also,  I  think,  well  in  hand"? 

Mr.  Irj:nee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know  that  I  can  throw  any  light 
on  it.    I  do  not  know  who  Shipp  is.    Do  yon  ? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Mr.  Shipp  was,  we  find,  from  an  examina- 
tion of  your  records,  paid  a  sum  of  money  through  one  of  the 
chemical  organizations  then  in  existence.  Subject  to  correction,  I 
would  put  the  sum  in  at  $10,000.  It  was  not  the  Chemical  Founda- 
tion. It  was  one  of  the  other  organizations  in  existence  at  that 
time. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  You  mean  by  an  organization  a  company 
or  an  association? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  was  an  organization  to  which  your  com- 
pany was  a  large  contributor. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Such  as  the  American  Dyes  Institute? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  may  have  been  the  one.  There  were 
several  other  ones,  whose  importance  I  do  not  realize  at  this  time. 

Does  that  identify  Mr.  Shipp  in  your  mind  at  all  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Not  at  all. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  You  never  ran  into  him  in  any  of  your  activ- 
ities ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  ran  into  so  many  in  my  activities  it  would 
be  utterly  impossible  to  know  them  at  the  time,  let  alone  15  or  18 
years  afterward. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Is  there  anybody  on  your  staff  here  who 
could  throw  further  light  on  the  thing  : 

The  qnestiou  of  advisors  to  the  disarmament  commissioners  is  also,  I 
think,  well  in  hand. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know  just  what  "  well  in  hand  " 
means,  and  I  am  quite  sure  nobody  in  our  organization  here  would 
know  about  it.  It  is  possible  Mr.  Garvan  might  throw  some  light 
on  it,  but  he  is  not  a  member  of  our  organization. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  offer  for  the  record  a  letter  found  in  your 
files,  from  General  Pershing,  which  is  put  in  simply  for  clarifica- 
tion on  the  question  of  chemical  importance. 

Mr.  Irene  du  Pont.  July  15,  1921? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  letter  is  dated  July  15,  1921,  which  is 
put  in  simply  for  the  value  of  stating  his  opinion  on  the  importance 
of  the  chemical  industry  in  warfare. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  1057"  and 
appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  letter,  being  addressed  to  Hon.  Nicholas 
Longworth,  House  of  Representatives,  Washington,  D.  C,  reads : 

With  reference  to  the  protection  for  the  dye  industry  in  this  country,  it 
can  be  stated  that  the  coal-tar  products,  of  which  dyes  are  the  most  im- 
portant at  pi'esent  in  peace,  is  the  base  of  practically  all  of  our  high  explo- 
sives and  most  of  our  war  gases. 

Our  shortage  of  chemical  plants  in  general,  and  dye  plants  in  particular, 
prior  to  the  World  War,  made  it  difficult  for  us  to  obtain  a  supply  of  high 
explosives  and  gases  until  we  had  been  in  the  war  for  several  months. 

From  the  above  the  importance  of  the  chemical  industry  from  a  military 
standpoint  will  be  readily  seen. 
Sincerely  yours, 

John  J.  Pershing. 


2766  MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  That  was  from  General  Pershing  to  the 
Honorable  Nicholas  Longwortli? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Yes. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  presume  it  was  sent  to  our  files  to  show 
what  General  Pershing's  ideas  were. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Yes. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  want  to  point  out,  though,  that  the  lack 
of  high  explosives  did  not  seem  to  me  to  be  particularly  notable,  but 
I  think  that  the  lack  of  supply  of  gases  was  very  notable. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  a  practical  chemist  who  was  famil- 
iar with  the  situation  at  that  time  could  throw  some  light  on  Per- 
shing's apparent  error  there. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  only  error  that  you  see  at  the  moment  is 
the  statement  that  "  made  it  difficult  for  us  to  obtain  a  supply  of  high 
explosives  "  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes.  I  do  not  know  what  a  military  man 
would  mean  by  "  high  explosives."  By  "  high  explosives  "  Irenee 
and  I  mean  dynamite,  and  so  forth. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  No.  He  meant  picric  acid  and  ammonium 
picrate,  that  is,  undoubtedly  the  bursting  charges.  But  I  think  there 
was  no  lack  of  those.  I  think  we  had  available  all  that  was  needed, 
and  there  was  some  left  over. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  General  Pershing  must  have  suffered  a 
lack  of  some  kind  of  high  explosives.  I  am  not  chemist  enough  to 
say  what  kind  he  must  have  had  in  mind. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  seems  hardly  worthwhile  to  interrupt  the 
questioning  on  that  point,  as  to  what  General  Pershing  meant.  We 
note  the  statement  that  so  far  as  you  know  there  was  no  shortage  of 
high  explosives. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  What  was  the  question  you  addressed  to  me 
on  the  letter  ?     I  apologize  for  not  having  noted  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  offered  it  for  the  record  as  showing  the 
recognition  of  a  general  in  the  armies,  of  the  importance  of  the  chem- 
ical industry  at  the  time.     The  question  was  not  addressed  to  you. 

There  is  a  letter  which  I  offer  for  the  appropriate  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1058  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2846.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  This  is  from  your  publicity  manager  to  Mr. 
Harold  Braddock,  of  New  York,  dated  October  6,  1921,  which  is  still 
in  the  years  surrounding  this,  before  this  disarmament  conference. 

The  second  paragraph  reads: 

Very  good  progress  is  being  made  in  the  effort  to  secure  support  for  our 
interests  at  the  coming  national  meeting  of  tlie  American  Legion.  This 
matter  is  very  well  in  hand  and  is  being  pushed  hard  with  the  national  officers 
and  the  executiAe  committee. 

We  expect  action  to  be  taken  tomorrow,  October  7,  by  the  Anny  Ordnance 
Association  meeting  at  the  Aberdeen  Proving  Grounds.  General  C.  C.  Williams, 
Chief  of  Ordnance  of  the  Army,  has  agreed  to  introduce  a  resolntiou  and  to 
speak  in  support  of  it.  Several  other  Army  officers  who  have  already  figured 
artiveiy  in  the  effort  to  build  up  a  chemical  industiT  will  support  him  in  his 
efforts. 

Was  that  a  military  matter  or  was  that  a  commercial  matter  ? 
Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  think  that  undoubtedly  General  Williams' 
point  of  view  was  a  military  matter. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2767 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Tlie  thing  was  a  military  matter,  presumably, 
or  else  General  Williams  would  not  have  interested  himself  in  it, 
is  that  correct?    Is  that  yonr  interpretation  of  it? 

IVIr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  presume  so. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Do  you  know  anything  or  does  anyone  present 
for  the  companj^  know  anything  about  the  second  paragraph? 

Very  good  progress  is  being  made  in  the  effort  to  secure  support  for  our 
interests  at  tlie  coming  national  meeting  of  ttie  American  Legion.  Tliis  matter 
is  very  well  in  hand  and  is  being  pushed  hard  with  the  national  officers  and 
the  executive  committee. 

Mr.  Ieenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know  anything  about  the  detail  of 
it ;  it  was  a  perfectly  rational  thing  to  do.  Those  men  knew  what 
the  trouble  had  been. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  This  was  a  military  matter  that  was  being 
put  before  the  Legion? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  presume  so. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  About  that  time  Mr.  Weston  was  dealing  with 
some  military  men.  In  a  letter  he  says,  "  I  have  the  military  sit- 
uation " 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  What  is  the  date  of  that  letter,  Mr.  Secre- 
tary? 

Mr.  Raushenbush,  This  letter  is  dated  December  4,  1919,  and 
addressed  to  Mr.  Carpenter,  who  I  presume  is  Mr.  W.  S.  Carpenter. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1059  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2846.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  paragraph  to  which  I  want  to  call  at- 
tention  

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Note  this  is  December  4,  1919.  This  is  prior 
to  the  matters  which  you  were  discussing  a  few  moments  ago,  in  1921. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  is  for  that  reason  I  want  to  point  to  the 
second  last  paragraph: 

I  have  the  military  situation  in  hand,  Earle,  Williams,  et  al. 

Can  you  identify  Mr.  Earle  and  Mr.  Williams  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  That  was  Admiral  Earle  in  charge  of  the 
Navy  ordnance,  I  think  it  was,  one  of  the  high  officials  of  the  Navy ; 
and  General  Williams  was  the  Chief  of  Ordnance  of  the  Army. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  must  have  been  a  military  matter,  then, 
at  the  time,  must  it  not? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  read  into  the  record  the  other  day  Presi- 
dent Wilson's  message  to  Congress  in  May  of  1919.  He  stated 
that  he  repeated  that  message  in  December  1919.  Of  course,  the 
main  message  was  prior  to  this,  and  the  December  message,  of  De- 
cember 7,  practically  confirms  it.  He  was  the  Commander  in  Chief 
of  the  Armj'^  and  Navy,  and  had  expressed  his  views  in  such  forcible 
language  tliat  if  General  Williams  and  Admiral  Earle  had  taken  any 
other  position  they  would  have  been  in  the  position  of  insubordi- 
nation. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Will  you  make  that  a  little  clearer  to  us, 
Mr.  du  Pont  ?    In  this  letter  Mr.  Weston  says : 

I  have  the  military  situation  in  hand,  Earle,  Williams,  et  al. 

By  "  military  situation  "  did  he  simply  mean  the  support  of  the 
Army  and  Navy,  or  did  he  mean  that  this  had  something  to  do  with 
chemical  warfare? 


2768  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  This  was  the  protection  of  the  dye  indus- 
try. One  of  the  reasons  for  protecting  it  was  the  possibilities  of 
gas  warfare  and  the  manufacture  of  munitions.  That  is  all  ex- 
pressed very  clearly  as  Mr.  Wilson  said.  His  claim  that  he  has  it 
in  hand,  I  think,  is  rather  taking  on  himself  a  little  credit  that 
perhaps  belongs  elsewhere.    But  perhaps  this  is  also  a  sales  letter. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  As  who  said? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Mr.  Wilson,  that  I  quoted  a  moment  ago. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Is  it  your  understanding  that  when  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  country  expresses  an  attitude  on  some  matter  like  that, 
that  makes  it  necessary  for  the  Chief  of  Ordnance  of  the  Army  and 
the  Chief  of  Ordnance  of  the  Navy  to  take  a  strong  interest,  a 
political  interest  in  legislation  before  Congress? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  think  it  was  a  patriotic  interest.  Remem- 
ber, Mr.  Wilson  had  been  Commander  in  Chief,  fighting  only  a  few 
months  before  this  a  real  war.  His  known  attitude  toward  peace  is  so 
very  well  distributed  that  his  coming  out  and  saying,  "  It  is  essential 
to  do  this  for  future  preparedness  even  though  we  disarm  "  must 
have  certainly  tipped  off  his  principal  officers  to  the  fact  that  he 
thought  it,  and  undoubtedly  they  thought  so,  too.  They  had  had 
experience.  Perhaps  they  were  the  ones  who  put  it  up  to  him.  I  do 
not  know. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Have  the  military  leaders  who  deal  with  your 
company,  the  Chief  of  Ordnance  of  the  War  Department  and  the 
Chief  of  Ordnance  of  the  Navy,  been  in  the  habit  of  speaking  for 
the  protection  of  any  other  industry  than  the  chemical  industry? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  could  not  tell  you  that. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Do  you  know  what  Admiral  Earle  and  Gen- 
eral Williams  did  do  to  help  the  chemical  industry  at  that  time? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  We  just  saw  here  that  General  Williams 
appeared  at  the  Army  Ordnance  Association  meeting  in  Aberdeen, 
and  spoke  before  the  officers  that  were  assembled  there,  and  civil- 
ians, too.  That  is  what  I  gather  this  says.  It  shows  he  was  very 
much  for  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Do  you  know  that  some  time  later  General 
Williams  was  one  of  the  technical  advisers  to  the  disarmament  con- 
ference in  1922,  appointed  in  November  1921  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  doubt  if  he  knew  that  that  was  going  to 
happen  in  December  1919.  I  do  not  think  that  has  any  bearing  on 
his  attitude  at  this  particular  time. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  question  was  rather  whether  it  had  some 
bearing  on  his  attitude  later. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  think  it  probably  did;  yes,  sir.  His 
knowledge  of  the  situation,  what  it  meant,  undoubtedly  had  influ- 
ence on  him.  I  suppose  that  was  the  object  of  sending  him,  because 
he  knew  something  about  the  question. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Did  Mr.  Weston  get  in  touch  with  these  people 
under  your  orders,  these  military  people? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do"  not  see  that  it  says  that  he  did 
get  in  touch  with  them. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  He  said,  "I  have  the  military  situation  in 
hand,  Earle,  Williams,  et  al." 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know  what  that  means. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2769 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Was  he  reporting  to  Mr.  Carpenter  about 
these  things? 

Mr.  Irknee  du  Pont.  He  wrote  to  Mr.  Carpenter,  and  Mr. 
Carpenter  undoubtedly  took  it  over  to  me,  because  I  was  right  in 
this  proposition.  In  fact,  they  asked  me  to  come  down  here,  that 
I  get  to  be  there  in  person.  I  think  this  is  the  letter,  is  it  not? 
No ;  it  is  a  similar  letter,  about  tlie  same  time. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Mr.  Chairman,  I  think  you  are  asking 
Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont  a  whole  lot  of  questions  about  these  matters  that 
he  cannot  have  first-hand  knowledge  about.  I  have  before  me  a  letter 
that  you  drew  from  our  files,  which  is  signed  by  General  Williams, 
referring  to  this  matter.  Why  do  you  not  take  his  own  word  for 
what  he  thought? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  do  not  remember  the  letter  you  have  in  front 
of  you.    I  would  be  glad  to  have  it  read. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  is  dated  December  5,  the  next  day  after 
this  letter. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  You  drew  it  from  our  files. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Yes;  but  we  cannot  use  all.  I  would  be  glad 
to  have  it  go  in. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  We  have  a  copy. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  May  I  read  this  letter?  Presumably  I 
had  a  copy  of  it  at  that  time. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  This  is  an  offer  from  General  Williams,  Chief 
of  Ordnance  of  the  War  Department,  to  Senator  Watson,  Chairman 
of  the  Finance  Subcommittee,  United  States  Senate,  speaking  of  the 
importance  of  the  chemical  industry.    The  last  paragraph  says : 

I  would  be  very  glad  to  appear  before  your  committee  in  person,  and  will 
do  so  if  you  care  to  have  me.     I  am  leaving  Washington  today,  but  expect  to 
return  on  the  15th  instant. 
Respectfully, 

C.   C.   Williams, 

Major  General, 
Chief  of  Ordnance,  U.  S.  A. 

We  will  enter  that  as  an  exhibit  with  the  appropriate  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  1060  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2847.) 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Do  you  have  a  copy  of  that? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  We  do  not  have  one  here,  but  we  can  get  one. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Will  you  put  the  entire  letter  in? 

The  Chairman.  Yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Does  this  letter  of  December  4,  "  Exhibit  No. 
1059  ",  saying  "  I  have  the  military  situation  in  hand  ",  mean  that 
General  Williams  would  write  such  a  letter  to  the  Chairman  of  the 
Finance  Committee,  which  followed  the  next  day? 

By  the  way,  there  is  another  phrase  in  this  somewhat  interesting 
letter  here  at  the  end  to  Mr.  Carpenter : 

Shall  not  fail  to  meet  you  at  the  Willard  Saturday  night — duce  tecum. 

My  Latin  is  not  what  it  might  be,  but  I  think  it  means  "  Bring 
with  you." 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  think  in  legal  parlance  that  might  be; 
but,  remember,  this  is  in  the  days  of  prohibition.  I  made  inquiry 
afterward  as  to  what  it  might  mean,  and  I  was  informed  that  it 


2770  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

meant  "  B.Y.O.L.",  which  translated  means  "  Bring  your  own  liq- 
uor." I  went  in  answer  to  that  letter,  and  I  did  not  bring  the 
liquor. 

Mr.  Kaushenbush.  Did  you  have  a  Mr.  Landis  employed  in  your 
company  at  the  time? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Mr.  Landis  was  the  head  of  the  Washington 
office  to  expedite  military  matters  with  the  United  States  Govern- 
ment between  1917  and  1919,  I  think  September.  I  think  the  office 
was  continued  on  for  about  a  month  or  two  thereafter,  then  closed. 
It  had  been  closed  before  this  letter  was  written. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Wliat  was  the  connection  of  Mr.  Landis  with 
your  own  compan}^  at  this  time? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  think  he  had  returned  to  Wilmington  and 
was  sort  of  on  the  semiretired  list.  He  had  been  in  charge  of  the 
Washington  office  in  connection  with  contracts  with  the  United 
States  Government  during  the  war.  He  was  assistant  to  Colonel 
Buckner,  who  was  our  sales  manager  of  military  explosives  at  that 
time. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Are  any  other  military  people  mentioned  in 
this  letter?     Who  is  "  T.  C"? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  That  is  my  cousin,  T.  Coleman  du  Pont. 
At  that  time,  I  believe,  he  was  United  States  Senator.  I  am  not 
sure  if  it  was  then  or  about  then. 

I  do  not  see  any  other  military  officers  named. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Do  I  gather  Mr.  Landis  at  this  time  still  was 
in  the  employ  of  the  company? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  think  so,  up  to  the  time  of  his  death  I 
think  he  was  employed. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Did  you  inform  these  military  men,  or  did 
your  representatives  down  here  inform  these  military  men,  of  all  the 
political  power  that  was  boasted  about  in  the  rest  of  the  letter,  the 
influence  of  Mr.  Landis,  for  instance? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  What  paragraph  is  that? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  fourth  paragraph  on  the  first  page. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  think  undoubtedly  Mr.  Landis,  being  a 
fellow  citizen  of  Indiana  with  Watson,  was  the  logical  man  to  tell 
him  the  facts  in  this  particular  case.  I  think  there  is  no  question 
that  Landis  would  see  Watson,  whom  he  knew,  and  explain  to  him 
just  what  this  fight  was  all  about  and  what  it  meant.  I  do  not 
think  he  would  have  seen  anybody  else.  I  do  not  know  about  this 
"  boasting  "  business.  At  that  time  I  do  not  think  we  felt  particu- 
larly boastful.     We  were  worried. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  question  is  whether  the  Army  men,  mean- 
ing the  heads  of  ordnance  of  the  Army  and  Navy,  were  told  about 
the  political  activities  and  power  that  the  company  was  discussing 
in  the  rest  of  the  letter. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  could  not  tell  you  whether  they  were  told 
or  not.     They  certainly  knew  we  were  working  down  there  hard. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  There  seems  to  be  a  lot  of  mystery  about 
this  paragraph,  Mr.  Chairman.     I  would  like  to  read  it : 

We  have  all  kinds  of  "  dope "  about  Watson  of  Indiana.  The  disquieting 
report  is  that  he  has  been  busy  in  behalf  of  importers  and  is  not  friendly  to 
us.     We  thought  Landis  had  him  fixed  and  still  hope  that  is  true. 


MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY  2771 

I  think  that  the  mj^stery  that  the  Secretary  surrounds  this  with 
is  due  to  the  use  of  that  word  "  fixed  "  which,  I  would  think  from 
the  context,  meant  fixed  in  mind,  that  is,  convinced. 

Mr.  E.AUSHENBUSH.  Did  you  talk  with  the  various  people  men- 
tioned in  this  letter,  Mr.  Du  Pont? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  presume  I  talked  with  all  of  them  and  a 
whole  lot  more,  although  if  there  are  some  out  of  town,  I  could  not 
have  seen  them.     I  saw  everybody  I  could  lay  mj^  hands  on. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  only  purpose  of  this  questioning  is  to  find 
out  whether  this  was  a  military  situation.  You  answered  "  Yes  ", 
I  believe,  that  it  did  have  military  implications. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  did. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  second  part  of  the  questioning  was  to  find 
out  whether  the  heads  of  the  War  and  Navy  ordnance,  one  of  whom 
was  later  delegated  to  the  Disarmament  Conference,  knew  about  all 
the  political  pressure  being  exerted  by  the  company  at  that  time. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  can  hardly  conceive  that  they  did  not  know 
about  it.  If  they  did  not  know  about  it,  I  guess  they  were  the  only 
people  in  Washington  who  did  not. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  might  have  made  an  impression  on  them  as 
to  the  importance  of  the  company  in  the  national  picture  at  the 
time  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  think  it  undoubtedly  showed  them  that 
the  American  Dyes  Institute,  the  organic  chemical  manufacturers 
of  that  day,  were  very  much  alive  to  the  situation  and  were  using 
every  power  they  could  to  bring  it  before  the  proper  authorities  of 
the  Government  to  impress  them  with  the  necessity  of  it.  Remember 
that  the  people  in  Congress  at  that  time  knew  nothing  whatever 
about  the  organic  chemical  industry.  It  was  a  complete  closed 
chapter  to  them.  They  had  never  heard  of  it.  I  know  I  talked 
to  a  number  of  these  Senators  myself,  and  they  had  not  the  least 
comprehension  as  to  what  it  was  all  about  until  I  got  at  them.  I 
helped  a  little  bit,  at  least,  in  spreading  the  information.  I  do  not 
mean  to  take  any  great  credit  for  myself,  because  there  were  a  great 
many  others  who  were  doing  the  same  thing. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  We  have  had  the  name  of  one  of  these  men. 
General  Williams,  appear  in  testimony  at  various  times,  and  we  are 
trying  to  find  his  interest,  among  other  things,  in  the  chemical 
disarmament. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Mr.  Chairman,  I  think  that  ought  to  be 
explained. 

General  Williams  w^as  Chief  of  Ordnance  of  the  United  States 
Army.  If  he  should  not  know  anything  about  ordnance  and  muni- 
tions of  war,  he  would  not  be  the  right  man  to  be  there.  Of  course, 
he  has  been  in  everything  pertaining  to  ordnance  and  munitions. 

JVIr.  Raushenbush.  And  a  further  question  was  whether  he  had 
ever  been  as  active  in  behalf  of  any  other  industry  as  he  was  in  be- 
half of  the  chemical  industry. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  He  was  very  active  in  pressing  the  war  only 
a  few  months  before  this,  when  the  United  States  was  in  it.  I  know 
how  hard  he  was  working  on  that. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Pressing  what  ?  I  asked  whether  he  had  been 
active  in  behalf  of  any  other  industry  besides  the  chemical  industry. 


2772 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  could  not  tell  you  about  that.  I  do  not 
know. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  chemical  industry  was  very  definitel}^  one 
involved  in  the  war  j)icture  ? 

Mr.  Irp:nee  du  Pont.  It  was  a  most  unique  industry  as  pertains 
to  preparedness.      That  was  the  first  thing  we  had  to  sell. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Do  you  believe  it  still  is? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  know  it  is. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Particularly  the  organic  chemistry. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  You  have  to  have  inorganics,  too.  The 
chemical  industry — I  will  take  the  whole  hog. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  am  very  glad  you  did  that. 

The  further  question  there,  a  somewhat  incidental  one,  was 
whether  it  would  not  by  inference  have  influenced  some  of  these  high 
military  officials  to  have  been  told  the  various  things  that  were  going 
on,  wdien  one  of  the  leaders  of  the  Senate  says,  as  he  does  in  a  letter : 

Give  the  du  Fonts  what  they  want  just  as  far  as  you  possibly  can  witliout 
getting  into  a  row. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  What  is  the  date  of  this  letter?  It  is  not 
on  this  copy. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  is  uncertain  whether  it  is  1920  or  1921.  It 
is  apparentlv  addressed  from  Mr.  Carpenter  to  you,  Mr.  Irenee  du 
Pont. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  The  date  on  here  is  February  17,  1920. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  "With  a  question  mark  after  the  "  '20."  We 
cannot  make  out  whether  it  is  '20  or  what  it  is. 

Give  the  du  Fonts  what  they  want  just  as  far  as  you  possibly  can  without 
getting  into  a  row. 

If  that  sort  of  thing  is  told  to  officials  of  military  services,  that  the 
company  has  that  much  power,  would  not  that  stand  a  chance  of 
influencing  their  activity  or  lack  of  activity  in  behalf  of  one  partic- 
lar  industry  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  One  moment.  I  would  like  to  read  this  to 
refresh  my  mind.     Might  I  ? 

Mr.  Raushenbush,  Yes,  indeed. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  You  speak  about  "  power."  I  think  that 
Penrose  was  convinced  that  it  was  the  right  thing  to  do,  and  he  knew 
we  were  perfectly  honest  and  sincere  in  what  we  asked  for,  and  he 
said,  "  Give  them  anything  they  want  if  we  do  not  get  into  a  row." 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Nobody  except  yourself  is  raising  the  question 
of  the  ethics  of  the  situation  at  that  time. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Poist.  I  am  not  raising  the  question  of  the  ethics, 
but  you  mentioned  our  power  over  them;  the  power  of  persuasion; 
yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  You  do  not  know  actually  whether  in  your 
own  communications,  such  as  they  were,  with  the  military  service 
men  you  spoke  of  these  matters  to  them  or  quoted  Penrose,  or  any- 
thing like  that  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know  that  I  quoted  Penrose  at  all. 
This  letter,  you  see,  is  written  subsequent  to  those  that  you  are  speak- 
ing of.  But  I  certainly  talked  to  them  on  the  subject  of  prepared- 
ness every  time  I  saw  them. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2773 

Mr.  Eaushenbush.  There  is  a  further  letter  dated  May  2,  1921, 
from  Mr.  Charles  A.  Meade,  vice  president  of  the  company,  which  I 
otter  as  an  exhibit  for  the  appropriate  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  ''Exhibit  No.  1061"  and 
IS  mcluded  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2848.) 

Mr    Raushenbush.  This   is   addressed   to   Mr.   Irenee   du   Pont 
president.  ' 

xv?,?'^'"'''^^  ^^  ^«"!f  .«f  ^P^'^1  29,  relative  to  our  relations  with  tlie  Cioemical 
vvaitarefeervice,  I  thmlv  you  will  be  pleased  to  know  tliat  our  contact  with  that 
organization  is  already  quite  close  and  a  recent  visit  to  the  Edgewood  Arsenal 
S?ii  v!'*  ^■''Z^  l^""  brought  about  a  beginning  of  cooperation  which,  no  doubt. 
will  be  highly  beneficial  both  to  the  Service  and  to  ourselves  in  the  future 
^•;,  ^?'''  l^}  General  Fries,  from  personal  conversations  that  I  have*  had 
with  him,  looks  upon  us  as  a  mainstay  in  case  we  are  brought  to  a  situation 
where  the  united  effort  of  the  country  is  needed.  There  is  not,  of  course  at 
rl^l  Zl^Zif''  w"''"/^  for  any  of  our  by-products  at  Edgewood  that  is  of  mkte- 
oll  ^?Tt^'  ''"^  ''^^^'^  ^''^*  ^°^^  develop,  in  case  their  experimental  work  is 
CheSf'wi''?  ''^1  '"-'^  *^^T^'''^  "'^^^^  ^^^'^  "^^  "S'^t  kind  of  a  call  from  the 
h..^!  f  Ki'^T  ^'^r'''^-     ^  ^'^''^  "^  ^^t^^t  to  let  lapse  the  connection  which 

has  been  established  by  reason  of  our  united  effort  in  legislative  work. 

Chaeles  a.  Meade,  Vice  President. 
The  question  there  is  this :  That  legislative  work  that  the  Chemical 
Warfare  Service  was  united  with  you  in  performing  was  of  a  mill- 
S  ^^*"^^'  ^^s  1^  no<^5  or  had  military  significance « 

M«v  9  1Q?1^^  ""^  ^.r''-  ^  P''''"T  '^V  I  ^«ti^^  this  letter  is  dated 
May  2  1921  more  than  a  year  after  those  previous  ones,  so  that  it 
does  not  hook  up  very  closely  with  the  letters  we  have  been  discuss- 


ino- 


Mr.  Raushenbush.  Are  you  making  a  point 

thf.lJfl^^-'"''  ^°^i'^-  ^  ?"\«nly  trying  to  prevent  confusion  of 
this  letter  having  anything  to  do  with  the  letter  of  1919.    Of  course 
It  is  the  same  general  subject,  preparedness,  and  of  the  effect  of  the 
organic  chemical  industry  on  gas  warfare  if  it  should  become  neces- 
sary to  produce  gases.    It  is  the  same  general  subject.    But  this  letter 

ConS-esTin  m9        ^  ^'^'"  ^^^'''  ^^'''  ''^^''  ^""^''^  "^^  ^'^^  ^P  '^^^^^^ 
Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  last  paragraph  [reading]  : 

I  have  no  intent  to  let  lapse  the  connection  which  has  been  established  hv 
reason  of  our  united  effort  in  legislative  work.  established  by 

Can  you  tell  us  what  in  addition  to  the  1919  efforts  of  the  War 
and  Navy  Departments  in  behalf  of  the  chemical  industry  we?e 
engapd  in  by  the  two  services  to  warrant  any  further  addition  to 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  get  that  question. 

dn  pAnVX^fr'"'''- JuT  r\^  explaining  just  a  moment  ago,  Mr. 
du  Pont,  that  this  probably  had  very  little  reference,  as  I  tak?it 

Pi^'t'l.frr^^''''  ^V"-  ^?'  ""V  ^.  ^^''^  ^t  ^^«  the  same  subject. 
But  this  should  not  be  confused  with  the  letters  of  1919  and  our 
efforts  starting  the  dye  embargo.  This  pertains  to  the  Edgewood 
Aisenals  efforts  to  produce  poison  gases,  and  they  naturally  would 
work  with  us,  too.    We  wanted  them  to.  ^ 

I.mA^^''^''^^'^-  ,It  does;  but  it  speaks  of  "  our  united  effort  in 
legislative  work  ",  and  the  question  addressed  to  you  now  is  if  that 
did  not  mean  1919,  what  did  it  mean?  ^ 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  This  has  been  1921. 


2774  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Was  there  a  continued  effort  all  along  through 
there  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  was  continued;  yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Eaushenbush.  It  seems  to  me  that  there  is  no  question. 

Referring  back  to  an  exhibit  already  introduced,  "  No.  922  ",^  will 
you  identify  whether  there  are  any  military  people  in  this  letter? 
It  is  signed  by  Mr.  Poucher  and  reads : 

Dear  Mr.  du  Pont:  Situation  clearer  and  bettei*  today.  Martin  and  the 
Major  are  hard  at  it. 

Can  you  identify  those  people  for  us? 

Mr.  Ip^enee  du  Pont.  I  think  I  can.  My  impression  is  that  Martin 
was  the  secretary  to  Senator  Knox  at  that  time,  and  that  the  major 
referred  to  is  Major  Parkinson,  who  I  think  was  the  lawyer  who 
did  the  actual  carpenter  work  on  bills  for  the  United  States  Senate. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  You  are  very  sure  about  the  identification  of 
Mr.  Martin  as  secretary  to  Senator  Knox  ? 

Mr.  Ikenee  du  Pont.  I  am  not  100  percent  sure.  I  said  I  think 
that  is  who  they  were. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  We  identified  Mr.  Wood  as  a  textile  manu- 
facturer. Culbertson  was  identified  as  Tariff  Commissioner  at  the 
time.  This  is  the  same  Culbertson,  is  it  not,  who  was  later  appointed 
to  the  technical  staff  of  the  Disarmament  Conference  about  a  year 
later  ? 

Mr.  Ikenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know  about  that. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  A  member  of  the  Tariff  Commission.  Now, 
Major  Parkinson,  was  he  in  your  employ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  He  was  not. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Do  j^ou  gather  that  he  was  in  the  active  service 
of  the  Army  at  the  time  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  think  not.  I  think  he  was  an  employee 
of  the  United  States  Senate. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  is  Major  Parkinson?  You  identify  him 
that  way? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know  where  he  got  the  title 
"  Major  ",  whether  he  was  an  Army  officer  or  belonged  to  the  militia 
or  whether  it  was  some  complimentary  one. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  question  comes  from  the  context  of  that 
paragraph : 

The  Major  will  likely  propose  that  as  this  is  a  measure  touching  "  national 
defense  ",  the  Commission  should  be  headed  by  General  Siebert  to  give  it  the 
flavor  of  defense  rather  than  tariff. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  This  is  very  closely  after  the  December 
letters.  At  that  time  we  were  asking  for  an  embargo,  a  high  tariff 
to  back  it  up  with.  I  even  went  further,  I  think,  and  asked  that  we 
sus])end  the  Sherman  laws  so  all  the  dye  companies  could  get  to- 
gether with  a  common  purpose  under  supervision  by  a  Government 
official. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  This  was  not  a  gas-warfare  measure  then ;  this 
was  a  i^rotection  measure,  was  it  not? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  National  defense. 


1  Hearings,  Part  XI,  p.  2412. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY  2775 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Did  you  say  this  was  a  matter  dealing  specifi- 
cally with  gas  warfare,  or  was  this  a  tariff  measure  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Well,  we  were  not  satisfied  to  have  it  a 
tariff  measure.  We  wanted  an  embargo  to  prohibit  the  importation 
of  dye,  so  that  the  dye  industry  could  get  a  start.  They  offered  us 
tariff,  and  I  said,  "  That  is  not  enough.  We  must  have  an  embargo. 
The  thing  is  too  important."  Embargo  was  a  horrible  name  in  those 
da.ys,  and  it  was  awfully  hard  to  sell  the  idea. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Coming  back  to  the  disarmament  conference 
at  that  time,  in  which  the  gas  treaty  was  evolved,  Mr.  Weston  re- 
ceived a  letter  from  Charles  L.  Parsons,  secretary  of  the  American 
Chemical  Society,  dated  December  1,  1921,  which  I  offer  for  the 
record  for  appropriate  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1062  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2848.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  letter  says : 

Dear  Mk.  Weston  :  Replying  to  yours  of  November  30.  I  am  fully  in  touch 
with  the  work  that  is  being  done  here  in  AVashiugtou  regarding  the  question 
of  chemical  warfare  before  the  International  Conference.  At  the  same  time, 
the  matter  is  a  very  delicate  one,  and  we  can  say  very  little  to  reporters.  Up 
to  the  present  time  nothing  definite  has  been  done  except  the  organization  of 
the  committee  which  met  for  the  first  time  yesterday  afternoon  at  4  o'clock. 
Their  meeting  was  simply  for  organization,  and  they  have  not  yet  received 
the  full  and  necessary  instructions  to  outline  their  future  procedure. 

I  agree  with  you  that  it  is  highly  important  that  the  commercial  interests 
hold  aloof  from  this  matter,  for  it  is  a  delicate  one  and  their  position  is  quite 
likely  to  be  seriously  misunderstood.  You  can  see  from  the  articles  which  are 
appearing  in  the  New  York  Herald  and  also  from  the  article  on  page  4,  column 
6,  of  the  Philadelphia  Ledger  of  this  morning  how  careful  the  chemists  have 
to  be  in  handling  this  situation. 

We  understand  this  letter  to  deal  with  the  International  Confer- 
ence, the  so-called  "Disarmament  Conference"  of  1922,  do  we  not? 
It  seems  to  deal  with  that,  doesn't  it  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  would  say  so.    It  is  dated  December  1921. 

Mr,  Raushenbush.  And  Mr.  Parsons  says  he  is  "  fully  in  touch 
with  the  work  that  is  being  done  here  in  Washington  regarding  the 
question  of  chemical  warfare  before  the  International  Conference." 
Could  you  tell  us  anything  more  about  that  work  that  was  being 
done  before  that  International  Conference? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know  that  I  can.  This  apparently 
is  the  American  Chemical  Society. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Writing  to  Mr.  Weston. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Was  it  not  the  secretary  of  the  American 
Chemical  Society?  Yes;  it  is  at  the  top.  "American  Chemical  So- 
ciety, office  of  the  secretary."  He  was  the  secretary  of  that  organi- 
zation. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  And  he  was  writing  to  Mr.  Weston  about 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  He  was  a  publicity  man.  It  is  marked, 
"  Publicity  Bureau." 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  He  was  head  of  your  publicity  bureau  and 
seemed  to  be  very  active  down  here  at  the  time. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  He  say  he  was  "  in  touch  with  the  work  that  is 
being  done  here  in  Washington  regarding  the  question  of  chemical 
warfare  before  the  International  Conference.     At  the  same  time, 


2776  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

the  matter  is  a  very  delicate  one,  and  we  can  say  very  little  to 
reporters." 

The  question  to  you  is,  what  can  you  tell  us  about  the  work  being 
done  here  at  the  time,  preparatory  to  that  conference? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  am  afraid  I  am  not  familiar  with  what 
the  American  Chemical  Society  were  doing.  I  notice  this  letter 
emanated  from  Washington.  I  do  not  recall  what  they  were  doing, 
if  anything. 

Mr.  Kaushenbush.  No;  the  question  was  what  your  company's 
representatives  were  doing. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  We  certainly  were  interested  in  the  protec- 
tion of  the  dye  industry  at  the  time.  I  am  not  familiar  with  what 
this  disarmament  congress  undertook  to  do,  but  if  they  attacked  the 
organic  chemical  industry  with  the  idea  that  it  should  be  inhibited, 
then  I  think  we  would  certainly  work  against  that  move. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  But  as  far  as  the  details  of  what  was  done 
down  here  by  the  representatives  of  your  company,  you  cannot  help 
us  out,  in  detail  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Yes;  I  think  I  can  help  you  a  lot,  but  I 
do  not  happen  to  know  what  the  American  Chemical  Society  was 
doing. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  No  ;  the  question  is  the  other  one.  The  letter 
is  addressed  to  your  Mr.  Weston. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Our  publicity  man,  in  Wilmington,  Del. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Who  spent,  according  to  his  testimony,  a  great 
deal  of  time  down  here. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Yes.    That  was  2  years  before. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  question  was  what  your  company  was  do- 
ing preparatory  to  this  disarmament  conference.  Is  there  anybody 
in  your  company  in  the  room  who  could  give  more  detail  on  that? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  am  a  little  fogged  up  on  that  disarma- 
ment conference.     I  do  not  recall  what  it  was. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Mr.  Weston  spoke  awhile  ago  of  having  the 
advisers  well  in  hand,  and  so  on,  so  we  gathered  than  there  was 
rather  an  intense  interest  in  that  conference. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Could  you  give  me  that  report  again  ? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Yes,  indeed. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  This  says  that  advisers  to  the  disarmament 
conference  were  appa-rently  appointed  by  the  American  Chemical 
Society  or,  if  not  appointed,  their  recommendations  must  have  been 
made.  I  think  that  is  what  it  refers  to.  They  are  advisers.  They 
are  not  members  of  the  commission. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  They  are  advisers ;  and  then  about  at  the  same 
time,  which  is  October,  we  had  an  exhibit  speaking  of  taking  and 
making  an  effort  to  secure  support  for  "  our  interests  "  at  the  coming 
national  meeting  of  the  American  Legion  and  that  General  Williams 
has  agreed  to  introduce  a  resolution  that  spoke  in  support  of  it,  for 
the  Army  Ordnance  Association.  That  does  some  to  indicate  con- 
siderable interest  in  the  approaching  meeting,  as  we  understand  it, 
does  it  not? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  You  surely  have  among  your  records,  when 
this  disarmament  conference  was  called,  the  date  of  it. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2777 

Mr.  Kaushenbush.  The  date  of  the  calling  was  entered  in  the 
record  today  or  the  date  of  the  President's  invitation,  as  August  11, 
1921. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  1921  ? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  1921;  yes. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Then  it  is  evident  that  the  1919  matter  did 
not  refer  to  that. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  is  why  I  kept  asking  about  whether  the 
activities  of  the  war  officials  were  in  behalf  of  the  chemical  industry 
or  in  behalf  of  war  protection. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Mr.  Secretary,  I  do  not  think  that  is  a  fair 
question  to  ask  me.  Those  Government  officials  are  available  right 
here  in  town.  It  would  not  cost  them  anything  to  come  over  here. 
It  is  costing  us  a  great  deal  to  stay  down  here,  especially  in  the 
matter  of  time. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  On  that  point,  Mr.  du  Pont,  you  know  you 
have  been  very  generous.  We  only  wanted  a  few  of  you  as  witnesses 
and  only  asked  for  a  few,  and  you  thought  it  advisable  to  bring  down 
a  great  many. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  You  must  remember  the  du  Pont  Co.'s 
interests  are  so  far-flung,  and  not  knowing  what  you  are  going  to  ask, 
no  one  man  can  know  it  all. 

The  Chairman.  Mr.  du  Pont,  how  much  of  a  force  have  you  found 
it  necessary  to  bring  with  you  and  keep  with  you  here  during  these 
days  of  the  hearings? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know  how  much  is  necessary.  You 
called  a  comparatively  few  of  them,  but  in  the  earlier  hearing  in 
September  it  certainly  was  desirable  to  have  our  accounting  men 
here,  from  some  of  the  questions  you  asked.  We  certainly  have  to 
have  some  chemical  men,  because  you  may  get  on  to  some  chemical 
problem.  We  can't  know  everything  about  what  you  are  going  to 
ask.  You  have  touched  so  many  different  subjects  that  it  is  impos- 
sible that  any  one  man  could  answer  you. 

The  Chairman.  How  many  people  do  you  have  here,  occasioned 
by  these  hearings,  at  this  time? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  could  not  tell  you.  I  suppose  there  must 
be  18  or  something  like  that. 

The  Chairman.  More  than  that. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Let  them  stand  up  and  count  their  noses. 

The  Chairman.  When  I  say  here,  I  mean  here  in  Washington. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  imagine  they  are  all  present  in  this  room. 
I  do  not  know  how  many.  I  only  want  to  get  the  facts.  There  is 
no  use  of  my  guessing. 

The  Chairman.  You  have  clerks  and  stenographers  who  are  not 
here,  don't  you,  who  are  at  work  on  this? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know  if  we  have  or  not.  I  haven't 
got  a  stenographer  here. 

The  Chairman.  We  have  been  told  you  had  as  many  as  50  or  60 
here  in  Washington. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Mr.  Mudge,  how  many  people  have  we  got 
here,  do  j^ou  know  ? 

Mr.  Mudge.  Oh,  about  20. 

83876— 35— PT  12 10 


2778  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  That  looks  approximately  right. 

The  Chairman.  About  20? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Then  the  letter  from  Dr.  Parsons  was  replied 
to  by  Mr.  Weston  on  December  2,  1921,  in  an  exhibit  that  I  offer 
for  the  record. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1063  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2849.) 

Mr.  E.AUSHENBUSH.  This  reads: 

My  Dear  Dr.  Parsons:  I  want  to  thank  you  for  j'our  letter  of  yesterday 
and  for  the  copy  of  your  communication  to  the  Public  Ledger. 

The  question  of  properly  guiding  the  newspaper  writers  is  to  my  mind  the 
most  serious  one  before  the  chemical  industry  and  the  Chemical  Society  at 
this  time.  The  article  which  you  criticize  offers  the  best  possible  evidence 
of  the  need  of  educating  the  writers  and  their  education  can  be  accomplished 
only  by  dealing  frankly  and  fully  with  them  and  giving  them  information 
in  advance  of  its  actually  happening  so  that  they  may  get  the  proper  perspec- 
tive and  realize  the  importance  of  what  is  to  come. 

For  instance,  it  has  been  evident  for  some  time  that  Constance  Drexel 
was  in  the  mood  to  be  hysterical  over  poison  gas.  The  things  she  has  written 
since  she  first  went  to  Washington  to  attend  this  conference  have  all  pointed 
in  one  direction.  If  she  could  have  been  taken  in  hand  and  told  exactly  what 
this  luncheon  was  intended  to  accomplish,  she  would  not  have  made  the 
serious  misstatements,  though  she  might  not  have  been  converted  to  support 
of  the  proposition. 

All  this  is  apropos  of  your  statement  that  *  *  *  the  matter  is  a  very 
delicate  one  and  we  can  say  very  little  to  reporters. 

I  want  to  call  your  attention  particularly  to  the  last  part  of  it: 

I  am  presuming  to  make  suggestions  because  on  the  advice  of  Dr.  Plerty, 
after  conference  with  Dr.  Smith,  it  was  agreed  that  matters  of  publicity  for 
the  present  should  be  left  entirely  to  the  discretion  of  the  noncommercial 
chemical  interests  with  Dr.  Smith,  president  of  your  society,  as  their  official 
representative,  and  because  of  my  experience  in  the  newspaper  field  which 
presumably  has  equipped  me  to  see  these  things  in  a  different  light  than  that 
in  which  they  appear  to  the  layman. 

May  we  gather  there  that  Dr.  Smith,  who  was  later  chosen  as  an 
adviser  to  the  Disarmament  Conference,  or  who  had  by  that  time  been 
chosen  as  an  adviser,  and  your  Mr.  Weston,  were  to  arrange  the 
matter  of  publicity  for  this  Disarmament  Conference?  Apparently 
the  two  of  them  are  to  do  that.  We  have  identified  Dr.  Herty,  we 
have  identified  Dr.  Smith,  and  here  is  the  statement,  that  in  view  of 
the  delicateness  of  the  situation  the  matter  of  publicity  should  be 
left  to  the  discretion  of  other  commercial  interests;  that  is,  pre- 
sumably they  wanted  the  commercial  chemical  interests  out  of  the 
picture. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  To  keep  their  mouths  shut. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  To  keep  their  mouths  shut  at  that  time? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  That  is  what  I  gather.  That  is  what  they 
say. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  is  what  they  seem  to  say. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  And  at  the  same  time,  Mr.  Weston,  who  was 
your  employee,  is  to  handle  the  publicity. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  gather  he  is  volunteering  his  services  to 
Dr.  Smith. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2779 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  We  were  going  to  ask  Mr.  Weston  in  some 
detail  about  what  he  did  at  that  time,  but  will  apparently  have  to 
skip  that  for  the  moment. 

On  January  25,  1922,  while  the  conference  was  still  on  and  the 
matter  of  gas  was  being  discussed,  he  wrote  a  letter,  which  I  offer 
for  the  record,  to  Mr.  Thomas  R.  Shipp,  of  the  Albee  Building, 
Washington,  D.  C. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1064  "  and  ap- 
pears in  full  in  the  text.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  This  reads : 

My  Dear  Shipp:  Thanks  for  your  sugEcestion  aliout  sending  the  poison-gas 
story  over  the  country-  I  wrote  the  story  in  reply  to  an  inquiry  from  the 
Ledger  and  arranged  from  this  office  that  it  should  be  spread  around. 

Doesn't  that  seem,  at  a  time  when  the  conference  was  going  on, 
your  man  was  sending  around  a  story  with  the  idea  that  it  would 
have  considerable  influence  on  public  opinion?  It  was  a  straight 
out  poigon-gas  story. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  imagine  so.  It  is  what  it  looks  like  from 
this  letter. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  goes  on : 

As  to  the  farm  conference,  I  knew  when  we  were  late  there  would  be  diffi- 
culties in  the  way,  otherwise  it  would  not  have  been  necessary  to  appeal  for 
the  help  which  I  confidently  assured  our  people  vv'ould  bring  results.  You  see 
I  thought  you  owned  all  Washington  and  I  had  no  doubt  that  you  could  put 
one  over  on  the  "  hayseed  "  administration. 

Do  you  know  whether  he  meant  the  farmer  groups  or  some  kind 
of  a  farm  conference  in  that,  or  did  he  mean  the  administration? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  That  is  what  he  said.  I  never  heard  of  it 
before,  but  it  only  indicates  to  me  that  some  of  the  perhaps  re- 
porters expressions  are  sometimes  a  bit  unfortunate,  referring  to 
the  "  hayseed  "  administration.  I  do  not  concur  in  the  expression. 
I  am  a  farmer. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  But  does  not  the  letter  seem  to  indicate  that 
there  was  some  attempt  to  bring  some  pressure  to  bear  also  on  a 
farm  conference  at  the  time  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Apparently  so.    That  is  all  I  know  about  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  want  to  offer  a  further  exhibit,  being  a 
memorandum  to  Mr.  A.  B.  Echols,  assistant  treasurer,  from  W.  F. 
Harrington,  dat«d  January  28,  1922. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  1065  " 
and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2849.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  This  seems  to  be  an  accounting  of  payments 
to  various  chemical  groups  and  munitions  payments  to  people  in 
Washington. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Didn't  you  call  this  man  Nichols  ? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Echols. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Echols,  that  is  correct. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  want  to  call  attention  on  the  third  page  to 
a  statement  at  the  end,  after  listing  all  of  the  expenditures  here  of 
$57,373.49  to  various  groups — 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Would  you  read  the  first  line  of  that,  stat- 
ing what  it  is :  "  Payments  to  or  for  account  of  American  Dyes 
Institute  "  ?     It  is  the  various  organizations,  as  I  said. 


2780  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  is  right.  That  is  various.  The  exhibit 
goes  on  from  there  to  take  in  various  others.  I  am  sorry.  That 
is  $57,373.49,  grand  total,  American  Dyes  Institute. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  And  the  note  there  is  the  one  I  want  to  call 
attention  to : 

In  April  1921,  this  company  paid  tlie  bill  for  7,500  copies  of  booklet  "  World 
Disarmament  and  the  Master  Key  Industry." 

That  master  key  industry  is  the  chemical  industry,  is  it  not? 
Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Undoubtedly. 
Mr.  Raushenbush  (continuing)  : 

And  bill  in  the  amount  of  $5,357.30  was  rendered  against  the  American 
Dyes  Institute  under  date  of  April  30,  1921,  which  item  has  not  been  paid  to 
us.  It  is  understood  that  a  portion  of  this  at  least  is  to  be  borne  by  us 
anyhow,  and  that  furthermore,  after  the  investigation  is  finished  and  com- 
mitments by  the  institute  will  have  to  be  met,  that  this  amount  is  to  be 
credited  to  our  share  to  be  paid. 

In  the  course  of  this  accounting  there  is  mention  of  a  check  ta 
the  order  of  Frank  S.  Bright  and  G.  S.  Ferguson,  Jr.,  Washington^ 
D.  C,  to  cover  bill  for  services  rendered. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Where  is  that? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  On  the  first  page,  the  last  paragraph. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  For  services  rendered  by  them  in  connection* 
with  the  Revenue  Act  of  1918,  and  all  other  services  account  Ameri- 
can Dyes  Institute,  totaling  $10,000. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Could  you  explain  that  more  fully  ?  We  had 
in  evidence  here  the  other  day  a  check  for  $100,000  to  Mr.  Bright^ 
which  was  supposed  to  cover  some  years  of  taxation  work.  Does 
he  do  general  legislative  work  for  you  down  here  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  think  this  was  general  legislative 
work.  He  was  working  for  the  American  Dyes  Institute;  I  sup- 
pose an  attorney  to  do  the  hammer  and  saw  work  and  advise  us^ 
legally.  I  presume  that  is  what  it  is.  It  is  what  it  says.  He  was 
an  attorney. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  He  is  still  your  attorney  down  here,  isn't  he? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  think  so.    I  am  not  sure. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Did  you  at  that  time  have  any  politically  im- 
portant people  on  you  pay  roll  or  on  the  pay  roll  of  some  of  these 
other  organizations  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  What  do  you  mean  by  politically  important  ? 
Appointees  of  the  Government  ? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  No.  Political  people,  people  with  known 
political  influence. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Well,  I  think  I  have  some  political  in- 
fluence. Do  you  mean  that  kind  of  a  case,  a  private  citizen  who- 
might  by  reason  of  his  position  have  some  influence?  Be  perfectly 
frank.  If  you  mean,  did  we  bribe  anybody  in  the  Government:  I 
will  say,  "  No." 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  question  is  not  directed  that  way.  The 
question  is  whether  you  had  any  nonofficials  of  important  political 
influence  in  your  employ  at  the  time? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2781 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  could  not  answer  that  directly,  because 
I  am  unable  to  define  political  influence.  I  think  I  have  some 
political  influence.  I  certainly  have  had  the  impudence  to  oo  around 
and  talk  to  people,  which  had  some  political  influence.  If  you  have 
any  names  in  your  mind,  I  could  very  readily  find  out  whether  they 
were  on  our  pay  roll  or  not. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Of  course,  the  question  there  will  depend  on 
how  far  the  committee  wants  to  come  back  to  this  question  later  on 

The  Chairman.  We  will  stand  in  recess  until  1 :  30. 

(Whereupon,  at  12 :  30  p.m.  the  committee  recessed  until  1 :  30 
p.m.  of  the  same  day.) 

AFTERNOON   SESSION 

The  hearing  was  resumed  at  1 :  30  p.  m.,  pursuant  to  the  taking  of 
the  recess. 

FURTHER  TESTIMONY  OF  LAMMOT  DU  PONT,  IRENEE  DU  PONT, 

AND  W.  R.  SWINT 

INTERNATIONAL  CONNECTIONS  IN  THE  CHEMICAL  INDUSTRY 

(The  witnesses  were  previously  duly  sworn  by  the  chairman.) 

The  Chairman.  The  committee  will  be  in  order. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Mr.  Chairman,  if  the  committee  please,  we 
were  closing  up  this  morning's  examination  with  a  question  concern- 
ing the  interest  of  some  of  our  own  service  oiSicials  in  the  welfare 
of  the  chemical  industry. 

May  I  ask  whether,  from  your  own  knowledge,  or  from  your 
company  information,  you  are  able  to  state  whether  the  Army  ofticers 
in  England,  France,  Japan,  or  Germany,  any  or  all  of  them,  have  in 
similar  ways  aided  the  chemical  industries  of  those  countries? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know  of  my  own  knowledge ;  no,  sir. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  What  I  am  trying  to  get  at  is  whether  that  is 
a  unique  situation,  that  our  own  service  officers  supported  the  indus- 
try at  this  particular  time,  or  whether  that  was  being  done  in  other 
countries  as  well. 

Mr,  Irenee  du  Pont.  Now,  going  back  to  Lord  Moulton,  who 
was,  I  think,  head  of  munitions  of  Great  Britain  during  the  World 
War,  he  was  very  familiar  with  the  organic  chemical  industry,  and 
I  think  that  he  advocated  British  participation  in  the  chemical 
industry.     I  think  I  have  seen  writings  to  that  effect. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Is  it  a  matter  known  to  you  that  generally  the 
chemical  industry,  which,  in  the  post-war  years,  which  had  been 
expanding  years 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  May  I  correct  that?  I  do  not  know  that 
Lord  Moulton  was  an  Army  officer.  I  think  he  was  in  charge  of 
munitions,  and  not  Chief  of  Ordnance,  I  am  quite  sure. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Will  you  read  my  question  as  far  as  I  have 
gone,  Mr.  Reporter? 

(The  pending  question,  as  above  recorded,  was  read  by  the  re- 
l^orter.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush  (continuing).  Has  been  in  close  relationships 
with  their  own  governments? 


2782  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  really  could  not  tell  you  that.  You  would 
have  to  get  somebody  familiar  with  foreign  affairs. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  would  like  to  offer  for  the  record,  somewhat 
incidentally,  an  exhibit  to  be  given  the  proper  number,  being  a  re- 
port by  D.  B.  Bradner,  on  the  general  subject  of  poison  gases,  their 
manufacture,  and  the  extent  to  which  the  company  is  prepared  or 
not  prepared  to  manufacture  them,  in  1924.  The  report  is  trans- 
mitted by  Major  Casey  to  Colonel  Taylor,  and  describes  in  some 
detail  how  phosgene  gas,  diphenylamine,  chlorarsine,  sulphur  chlo- 
ride, and  others,  are  composed. 

(The  document  refered  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1066  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2853.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  would  like  to  have  it  as  a  matter  of  record. 

Now,  going  into  the  relations  of  some  of  the  big  foreign  chemical 
companies  with  their  governments,  I  would  like  to  offer  a  memo- 
randum dated  November  6,  1933,  initialed  J.  K.  J.,  who  is  presumably 
Jenney,  is  it  not? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  so. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Describing  a  visit  of  Mr.  G.  Donegani  on 
October  27,  1933,  to  Wilmington. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  1067" 
and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2855.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  call  attention  to  the  Government  interest  in- 
dicated in  the  company  in  the  last  paragraph  on  the  first  page. 
[Reading :] 

*  *  *  Mussolini,  wlio  is  a  personal  friend  of  Donegani,  called  Mm  iu  and 
told  him  that  he  wanted  him  to  take  the  company  over. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Where  is  that? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  At  the  end  of  the  first  page.    [Reading :] 

*  *  *  Mussolini,  who  is  a  personal  friend  of  Donegani,  called  him  in  and 
told  him  that  he  wanted  him  to  take  the  company  over.  Mr.  Donegani  objected ; 
first  on  the  grounds  that  he  did  not  want  to  put  good  money  into  a  sick 
company,  and  that  he  could  not  make  it  a  technical  success  without  securing 
assistance  from  abroad.  After  considerable  argument,  and  after  pointing 
out  that  both  du  Pont  and  the  English  had  turned  down  the  proposition  to 
give  A.C.N.A.  assistance,  Donegani  secured  permission  to  bring  the  I.G.  in  as 
minority  holders. 

That  is  the  German  company,  I  presume? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I.G.  is. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  skip  the  rest  of  the  paragraph. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Is  it  explained  what  A.C.N.A.  is? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  is  the  big  Italian  company,  is  it  not? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  That  is  Mr.  Donegani's  company. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Yes. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  All  right. 

Mr.  Raushenbush   (reading)  : 

The  financing  was  done  through  Credito  Italiano  upon  the  orders  of  Musso- 
lini. It  is  our  understanding  that  40,000,000  lire  was  paid  for  the  concern,  49 
percent  of  which  was  supplied  by  the  Germans. 

The  last  paragraph  of  the  letter  says  [reading]  : 

Mr.  Donegani  reported  that  the  German  rayon  cartel,  in  which  the  Italians 
had  an  18-percent  interest,  was  broken  up  by  an  edict  of  the  Hitler  government 
without  any  reason  except  national  self  interest  to  justify  the  step. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2783 

In  Germany,  apparently,  a  similar  government  interest  existed, 
according  to  a  memorandum  which  I  offer  for  the  record,  dated 
March  22,  1932,  from  Mr.  Jenney  to  Mr,  Swint,  of  the  foreign  rela- 
tions department. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1668 "  and 
appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Mr.  Chairman,  it  is  not  being  assumed 
that  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont  or  I  are  agreeing  with  all  the  statements 
the  secretary  is  making. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  am  identifying  the  statement. 

The  Chairman.  The  Chair  understood  the  secretary'-  was  merely 
identifying  the  statement. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  If  you  have  any  comment  to  make  on  that, 
all  right. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  have  none. 

Mr.  Raushenbush  (reading  "  Exhibit  No.  1068  ")  : 

It  is  a  matter  of  common  gossip  in  Germany  that  I.G.  is  financing  Hitler. 
Other  German  firms  who  are  also  supposed  to  be  doing  so  are  Kinipp  and 
Thiessen.  How  much  truth  there  is  in  tliis  gossip  we  are  unable  to  state 
but  there  seems  to  be  no  doubt  whatever  that  Dr.  Schmitz  is  at  least  per- 
sonally a  large  contributor  to  the  Nazi  Party. 

Can  you  identify  Dr.  Schmitz  for  us  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Dr.  Schmitz  is  an  official  of  the  I.G.  He 
has  the  position,  I  think,  of  treasurer  or  the  director  of  their  fi- 
nances. 

The  Chairman.  Mr.  Raushenbush,  who  is  the  author  of  that 
communication  ? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  This  is  a  member  of  the  foreign  relations  de- 
partment of  the  du  Pont  Co.,  writing  to  the  head  of  the  foreign  re- 
lations department.    We  will  have  more  on  that  later. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  was  characterized  as  "  gossip  "  in  the 
letter. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  was  characterized  as  "  gossip  "  in  the  letter. 
Do  you  remember  any  further  communications  concerning  the  ques- 
tion of  the  German  chemical  industry  in  its  relations  with  the 
present  administration  of  Germany? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  remember  anything  further? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  We  will  come  to  that  later. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  That  does  not  mean  that  there  are  none. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  is  understood  that  it  does  not  mean  there 
are  none. 

I  offer  for  the  record  a  letter  dated  June  20,  1922,  from  Mr.  Crane 
to  Mr.  Pickard,  in  which  he  discussed  the  interest  of  the  British 
Government  in  the  Nobel  group,  and  I  call  jouv  attention  to  the 
comments  here  from  Sir  Harry  McGowan. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1069  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2856.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  letter  reads: 

The  other  day  I  was  talking  with  Sir  Harry  McGowan,  and  we  spoke  of 
the  British  dyestuffs  situation,  though  he  is  no  longer  a  director  of  the  com- 
pany.   Among  the  comments  he  made  were  the  following : 

If  the  British  made  a  deal  with  the  Germans,  du  Pont  interests  could 
liardly  be  given  special  treatment  in  the  matter,  unless  there  was  a  definite 
undertaking  on  the  part  of  Sir  William  Alexander  that  he  was  negotiating 


2784  MUNiTioisrs  industry 

for  U.S.  The  British  Government  would  not  wealien  but  were  absolutely  de- 
termined to  see  the  company  successful.  The  inevitable  result  would  be  an 
agreement  with  the  Germans,  for  Sir  Harry  does  not  seem  to  think  it  possible 
that  the  British  will  be  able  to  achieve  technical  success  without  the  help  of 
the  Gex'mans.  Mr.  Pickard  ought  to  come  right  over  to  London,  and  the  United 
States  legislative  situation  is  probably  so  well  in  hand  that  he  could  now  come. 

I  call  your  attention  also  to  the  second  paragraph  on  page  2, 
where  it  says  [reading]  : 

Sir  William  went  on  to  say  that  he  had  seen  von  Weinberg  and  Oppenheim  in 
Berlin  a  month  ago,  and  their  proposals  were  that  the  British  company  would 
limit  its  sales  to  the  British  Isles  only,  not  the  Empire,  and  give  the  Germans, 
half  of  their  profits  in  exchange  for  technical  information.  He  told  them  em- 
phatically that  the  British  would  not  agree  to  such  terms,  but  were  ready  to 
agree  on  prices  throughout  the  world,  and  come  to  an  understanding  about  com- 
petition. Duisberg  was  also  to  be  called  in  if  an  agreement  was  in  sight,  but 
naturally  there  was  nothing  doing,  and  I  presume  that  the  Germans  are  simply 
biding  their  time  until  British  Dyes  will  have  to  come  to  them  again.  Sir 
William  went  on  to  say  that  the  British  Government  was  going  to  back  the 
enterprise  up  to  the  limit,  favored  an  arrangement  with  the  Germans,  but  were 
entirely  opposed  to  any  such  terms  as  the  Germans  had  in  mind. 

Mr.  Swint,  this  is  more  in  your  department,  I  believe.  Can  you 
give  us  any  further  information  on  the  connection  between  the  Brit- 
ish Government  and  the  British  chemical  companies? 

Mr.  Swint.  I  was  not  in  London  at  that  time,  but  I  became  famil- 
iar with  the  situation  more  or  less  through  hearsay  and  through  con- 
versations that  I  had  had  there,  and  it  was  my  definite  understand- 
ing that  the  British  Government  had  the  intention  to  do  just  about 
what  the  letter  said,  to  back  the  dyestuffs  industry  sufficiently  to  put 
it  on  a  firm  basis  so  that  England  would  have  a  national  dyestuffs 
industry. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  And  has  not  the  rather  strong  interest  of  the 
British  Government  in  the  chemical  industry  been  evidenced  and 
generally  understood  in  later  years  as  well? 

Mr.  Swint.  Possibly  that  is  true  as  a  general  statement.  I  do 
not  know  of  any  specific  acts  which  they  have  taken  in  the  mean- 
time.    I  believe  they  no  longer  have  any  financial  interest  in  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  offer  for  the  record  a  letter  from  Irenee 
du  Pont  to  Sir  Harry  McGowan  in  the  early  days,  December  15, 
1920. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1070  "  and  is  in- 
cluded in  the  appendix  on  p.  2858.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  And  I  call  attention  to  the  second  paragraph 
on  the  last  page.     [Reading:] 

It  was  suggested  in  the  meeting  that  possibly  in  a  short  time  relations  with 
the  German  Nobel  group  would  be  reopened  in  a  way  which  would  make  it 
desirable  that  they,  too,  share  in  the  enterprise.  What  would  you  think  of 
such  an  arrangement? 

Mr.  du  Pont,  would  you  identify  the  discussion  as  having  to  do 
with  that? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  "What  enterprise  is  that? 

Mr,  Raushenbush.  I  am  asking  Mr.  du  Pont  to  identify  the  dis- 
cussion as  having  to  do 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  The  Chilean  enterprise.     [Reading:] 

Am  writing  you  this  as  a  reminder  of  the  point  of  view  which  I  expressed  to 
you  and  because  it  would  seem  to  be  a  good  opening  to  put  in  force  the  ideas 
that  we  were  more  or  less  together  on  in  that  discussion;  i.e.,  the  prospects 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2785 

on  the  Chilean  enterprise  are  not  so  splendid  but  that  we  could  afford  to  permit 
the  other  companies  to  join  in  without  heavy  financial  loss.  I  say  this  because 
I  think  and  believe  you  were  of  the  same  opinion  that  we  must  build  in  order 
to  prevent  losing  the  trade  of  that  country  elsewhere;  that  the  investment 
itself  was  not  overattractive.  Personally,  I  would  rather  have  a  25-percent 
interest  with  Hercules  and  Atlas  in  than  a  50-percent  one  with  them  out.  I 
wonder  if  you  were  feeling  the  same  way? 

This  was  commercial  explosives.     [Continuing  reading :] 

It  was  suggested  in  the  meeting  that  possibly  in  a  short  time  relations  with 
the  German  Nobel  group  would  be  reopened  in  a  way  which  would  make  it 
desirable  that  they,  too,  share  in  the  enterprise.  What  would  you  think  of 
such  an  arrangement? 

This  is  written  you  while  the  matter  is  fresh  in  mind,  but  I  do  not  think 
we  can  come  to  any  conclusions  by  letter  and  that  the  topic  had  best  be  dis- 
cussed either  when  you  are  next  in  this  country  or  when  a  suitable  represen- 
tative of  our  company  is  next  in  yours,  according  to  which  happens  first. 

That  undoubtedly  refers  to  the  Chilean  dynamite  proposition. 

Mr.  E.AUSHENBUSH.  And  brings  out  that  even  as  far  back  as  1920 
the  idea  of  taking  in  other  companies  on  the  South  American  propo- 
sition was  being  discussed. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  was  commercial  explosives,  dynamite. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  offer  for  the  record  a  letter  dated  June  17, 
1923,  from  Mr.  Crane,  European  manager  in  London,  to  Mr.  Haskell, 
simply  to  note  the  second  paragraph. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1071  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2858.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush  (reading)  : 

He- 
Mr.  Mitchell — 

reviewed  the  Czechoslovakian  situation  and  said  that  Philipp  of  the  Austrian 
Nobel  Co.,  thought  he  had  the  concession  from  the  Czechoslovakian  Govern- 
ment and  on  his  way  to  the  Government  offices  to  close  the  deal  he  met  Leonard 
Smith  coming  out  of  the  office  with  the  signed  concession  in  his  pocket.  You 
already  know  about  the  ownership  of  this  Czechoslovakian  explosive  company 
and  that  the  Austrians  were  taken  in,  but  Mitchell  explained  to  me  the  reasons 
for  taking  the  Austrians  in  were  primarily  in  payment  for  their  plant  which 
they  turned  over  to  the  new  company  and  secondly  because  they  felt  it  would 
be  desirable  to  work  with  Philipp  in  other  eastern  European  countries,  which 
has  already  been  the  case. 

Although  the  German  group  is  understood  still  to  own  control  of  the  Aus- 
trian Nobels  and  to  that  extent  Philipp  is  their  man,  yet  the  Nobels  have  never 
had  any  discussion  with  the  Germans.  All  the  negotiations  have  been  carried 
on  between  Philipp  and  Leonard  Smith. 

In  Hungary,  Philipp  secui*ed  the  concession  for  a  Government  powder  factory 
and  has  taken  Nobels  in  50-50 — that  is  to  say,  the  Hungarian  Government  re- 
tain 60  percent  of  the  stock,  Austrian  Nobels  have  20  percent,  and  Nobels  In- 
dustries have  20  percent. 

Philipp  also  secured  the  concession  for  the  Government  powder  factory  in 
Bulgaria.  Mr.  Mitchell  could  not  give  me  offhand  the  details  of  this  deal  but 
I  understand  it  was  exactly  the  same  as  in  Plungary.  Work  has  already  been 
started  at  the  factories  in  both  these  countries. 

I  simply  offer  that  to  show  that  even  in  those  days,  1923,  it  seems 
clear  that  Nobels  shared  some  interest  with  the  Germans  and  Aus- 
trians in  Czechoslovakia  and  Hungary.  Is  there  any  comment  on 
that? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  see  anything  about  the  Germans, 
except  that  they  had  competition  with  the  Germans,  and  I  know 
nothing  of  it. 


2786  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Kaushenbush.  It  says : 

Although  the  German  ^-oup  is  understood  still  to  own  control  of  the 
Austrian  Nobels. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  That  part,  apparently,  is  gossip. 

Mr.  E.AUSHENBUSH.  We  can  come  back  to  that  later.  In  connec- 
tion with  "  Exhibit  No.  1071  "  I  offer  for  the  record  two  letters  from 
Mr.  Crane  to  Mr.  Haskell  dated  June  8,  1923,  and  January  30,  1923. 

(The  letter  of  June  8,  1923,  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1071-A  " 
and  appears  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2859.) 

(The  letter  of  January  30,  1923,  was  marked  "Exhibit  No. 
1071-B  "  and  appears  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2860.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  want  to  offer  for  the  record  a  memorandum 
dated  March  21,  1924,  to  the  executive  committee,  from  H.  G.  Has- 
kell, vice  president,  and  A.  Felix  du  Pont,  general  manager,  discuss- 
ing du  Pont's  and  Nobel's  relationship. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1072  " 
and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2861.) 

Mr.  Raishenbush.  I  simply  call  attention  to  the  footnote  on  the 
last  page,  which  reads: 

In  competing  for  Polish  business  we  usually  find  ourselves  in  competition 
with  M.  Philipe,  representing  the  Czechoslovakia  company.  We  understand 
Philipe  represents  the  Hamburg  Nobels  ownership  of  about  12  percent  of  the 
stock.  The  French  company,  sometimes  spoken  of  as  "  LePlay ",  and  the 
English  Nobels  own  similar  amounts,  the  three  together  approximating  half 
ownership.  The  other  half  presumably  belongs  to  Czechoslovakians.  When 
orders  for  smokeless  powder  are  obtained  by  this  company,  the  explosives  are 
usually  supplied  from  Rorweil,  Germany.  In  competing  for  Spanish  business 
we  meet  a  Spanish  company  in  which  the  Nobels  have  a  large  interest,  though 
presumably  a  minority  one.  We  understand  it  is  not  customary  for  the 
English  Nobels  to  themselves  appear  as  sellers. 

Simply  showing  that  in  1924  the  British  Nobels  are  shown  to  have 
a  part  interest  in  the  Czechoslovakia  company,  with  its  smokeless 
powder  from  Rorweil  in  Germany,  following  along  the  lines  of  Sena- 
tor Vandenberg's  examination  the  other  day. 

I  offer  for  the  record  an  exhibit  entitled  "  Notes  of  conversations 
held  at  the  Hotel  des  Indes  at  The  Hague  on  October  15,  1924,  at 
2 :  30  p.m." 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1073  " 
and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2863.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  call  attention  to  the  presence  of  representa- 
tives of  Nobel  Industries,  Ltd..  representatives  of  the  German  com- 
panies, and  representatives  of  the  Norwegian  company,  and  to  the 
character  of  their  discussion.  I  do  not  want  to  read  the  whole  let- 
ter.    If  you  vv^ant  to  read  it,  that  is  all  right. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  This  does  not  seem  to  be  any  of  our  affair. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  du  Pont  Co.  is  mentioned  at  various 
places. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Where  did  this  come  from? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  that  this  was  a  memorandum  that 
was  sent  in  to  our  office. 

Mr.  SwiNT.  I  think  that  was  a  memorandum  sent  by  Nobel  to  us 
for  our  information  only. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  seems  to  deal  with  relations  between  the 
Germans  and  British  concerning  a  South  American  pool.     I  wanted 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2787 

to  call  attention  then  to  the  character  of  discussion  between  these 
gentlemen  indicated  on  page  6 : 

Towiird  the  close  of  the  meeting  Mr.  Richter  produced  a  list  of  questions 
whicli  are  set  out  below,  together  witii  the  answers  which  were  given  in  each 
case : 

(o)  Taking  it  for  granted  that  du  Fonts  are  to  join  the  combine,  can  Hercules 
and  other  American  companies  be  caused  to  adhere  to  the  prices. 

This  has  already  been  dealt  with  above. 

(b)  Can  the  Norwegian  company  bring  influence  to  bear  upon  the  Swedish 
company  to  abstain  from  competition? 

It  was  held  that  this  was  a  matter  for  the  Norwegian  company  to  deal  with. 

(c)  Will  the  French  abstain  from  competing  as  they  did  during  the  time  of 
tlie  Hota?     Can  the  same  be  guaranteed  with  regard  to  the  Belgian  works? 

Tiie  Nobel  representatives  expressed  the  view  that  no  insurmountable  diffi- 
culty would  be  met  with  in  obtaining  the  adhesion  of  the  French  and  Belgians 
to  any  understanding,  but  they  felt  that  the  time  was  not  opportune  to  approach 
either  of  these  competitors. 

(d)  Are  the  new  Dutch  works  likely  to  come  into  the  combine? 

The  Dutch  works  are  a  very  small  producer,  destined  to  supply  the  State 
mines  in  Holland,  and  it  was  held  to  be  unlikely  that  they  had  an  eye  on  export 
business,  and  that  consequently  no  approach  should  be  made  at  this  stage. 

(e)  How  can  the  competition  of  the  Westfalish-Anhaltische  be  avoided,  who 
are  sure  to  make  excessive  claims? 

if)  What  about  the  lignose,  the  Bayerische,  and  the  Gnaschwitz  Spreng- 
stoffwerke,  who  have  tried  several  times  to  gain  a  footing  with  their  Ammon- 
Calucit? 

It  was  pointed  out  that  it  was  for  the  German  concerns  to  settle  their  own 
internal  arrangements,  and  Dr.  Aufschlager  proposed  to  take  up  the  matter 
with  his  German  competitors  at  an  early  stage.  In  the  course  of  the  discus- 
sion Mr.  Richter  referred  to  the  possibility  of  satisfying  the  Westfillisch- 
Anlialtisclie  by  giving  them  oi'ders,  and  this  is  to  be  explored. 

({/)  Are  the  English  competitors  who  are  not  under  the  control  of  Nobel 
Industries  likely  to  also  become  competitors  in  markets  abroad? 

Sir  Harry  stated  that  he  anticipated  no  difficulty  in  dealing  with  the  small 
U.K.  concerns  not  under  Nobel  control. 

(h)  Is  there  any  prospect  of  bringing  the  Japanese  factories,  both  the  private 
company.  Nippon  Kayaku  Kaisha,  and  the  Government  works,  Iwahana,  into 
line? 

It  was  recognized  that  the  situation  in  Japan  presented  exceptional  difficul- 
ties. Sir  Harry  threw  out  the  suggestion  that  it  might  be  considered  whether 
an  endeavor  should  be  made  to  bring  about  an  understanding  with  the  Nippon 
Kayaku  Kaisha  in  the  form  of  a  financial  merger.  The  German  representatives 
undertook  to  think  this  over. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  That  all  pertains  to  commercial  explosives, 
does  it  not,  Mr.  Secretary  ?  I  did  not  follow  the  context,  not  know- 
ing just  where  it  came  from,  but  it  sounds  like  commercial  business 
and  not  military  business. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  answer  is  not  quite  clear.  It  says,  on 
the  second  page :  "  High  explosives  manufacture  appears  to  be  mainly 
in  the  hands  of  three  groups  ",  Mdiich  it  then  lists. 

The  letter  was  introduced  simply  to  show  the  character  of  the 
dividing-up-the-world  idea  which  the  representatives  of  the  British, 
Germans,  and  Norwegians  seemed  to  be  engaged  in. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  High  explosives  are  usually  considered  to 
be  dynamite,  in  contradistinction  to  black  powder,  which  is  not  a 
high  explosive. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  You  are  in  competition  with  the  Germans  not 
only  in  regard  to  commercial  explosives  but  nowadays  also  somewhat 
in  competition  with  military  goods,  are  you  not? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  No. 


2788  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  thought  during  Senator  Vandenberg's  ex- 
amination the  fact  was  brought  out  rather  clearly  that  the  Germans 
had  taken  away  Turkish  orders  from  you  in  military  explosives. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  thought  they  were  supposed  not  to  be 
shipping  military  powder. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  was  the  whole  point  of  the  examination, 
that  they  had  taken  away  such  orders. 

Mr.  SwiNT.  Mr.  Raushenbush,  this  memorandum  does  refer  ex- 
clusively to  the  industrial  explosives,  and  does  not  concern  dividing 
up  the  world,  but  relates  solely  to  South  America. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Dividing  up  South  America  and  getting  the 
various  companies  in? 

Mr.  SwiNT.  Not  dividing  it  up. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Making  a  pool  about  it. 

Mr.  SwiNT,  Finding  a  means  to  promote  the  interests  of  these 
particular  companies  as  in  distinction  to  other  competitors. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  think  that  is  quite  a  correct  statement.  This 
is  a  sort  of  an  arrangement  for  a  South  American  pool. 

Mr.  SwiNT.  It  is  an  economic  method  of  selling. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  only  purpose  for  which  the  exhibit  was 
introduced  was  to  show  the  extensive  interests  across  national  lines 
of  these  companies.  That  is,  in  commercial  lines ;  that  does  not  nec- 
essarily mean  that  it  has  no  relation  to  the  financial  welfare  of  those 
companies  which  may  also  be  engaged  in  military  business. 

Mr.  SwiNT.  That  is  true,  but  military  explosives  were  later  specifi- 
cally excluded  from  the  arrangement  that  was  made. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Certainly,  Mr.  Swint,  the  success  of  a  com- 
pany's commercial  explosives  business  does  have  some  relation  to  its 
ability  to  stay  in  business  and  also  produce  military  powders,  does 
it  not,  a  very  tremendous  amount? 

Mr,  Swint.  A  very  tremendous  amount,  because  the  amounts  con- 
cerned are  about  10  to  1,  or  greater  than  that. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  was  the  only  point  there. 

I  introduce  for  evidence  a  letter  from  Irenee  du  Pont  to  Walter 
S.  Carpenter,  in  London,  dated  November  21,  1924,  simply  to  call 
attention  to  the  idea  expressed  at  the  top  of  the  second  page,  as 
early  as  1924,  of  acquiring  an  interest  in  a  certain  German  company, 
namely,  Goswig,  which  was  a  Stinnes  interest. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1074  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2866.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  read  the  first  paragraph  on  the  second  page : 

I  was  just  as  much  surprised  as  you  to  find  what  the  German  situation  is 
with  respect  to  their  own  internal  competition  and  it  struclv  me  right  off  the 
bat  that  it  would  be  useless  to  make  much  of  an  arrangement  with  the  German 
Nobels  leaving  out  half  of  the  German  capacity  under  control  of  Goswig  and 
others.  My  idea  was,  as  you  have  correctly  gathered,  to  acquire  an  option  at 
some  price  on  Goswig,  with  an  idea  that  we  could  then  first  use  it  as  a  lever 
on  the  German  Nobels  for  satisfactory  terms,  and  second,  combine  the  two 
competing  organizations  so  as  to  get  greater  economy  in  manufacture  and 
eliminate  needless  competition. 

It  shows,  does  it  not,  that  in  1924  you  had  thought  of  purchasing 
an  interest  in  German  companies? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  This  was  commercial  explosives,  no  military. 
Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  And  the  suggestion  was  not  carried  out. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2789 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  suggestion  was  not  carried  out. 

I  offer  for  the  record  a  paragraph  taken  from  report  to  the  finance 
committee  by  the  treasurer,  W.  S.  Carpenter,  Jr.,  dated  October  2, 
1925,  again  discussing  the  possibility  of  investing  in  German  com- 
panies.   I  do  not  particularly  want  to  read  that,  unless  you  do. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1075  ", 
and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2867.) 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  would  like  to  point  out  what  that  is  talk- 
ing about.  I  think  that  refers  to  the  purchase  of  a  stock  interest  in 
some  German  company. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  is  all  that  was  intended  to  be  noted. 

I  want  to  offer  for  the  record  a  paragraph  from  report  from  H. 
McGowan  to  the  directors  of  Nobel  Industries,  Ltd.,  dated  Septem- 
ber 14,  1025. 

(The  report  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1076  ",  and 
is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2867.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  This  discusses  the  relations  of  Nobel  and  the 
Germans.  I  call  attention  in  the  light  of  Senator  Vandenberg's  ex- 
amination the  other  daj^^  to  the  sentence  in  the  middle : 

Further,  agreement  has  been  reached  that  they  will  refrain  from  doing 
anything  likely  to  pi-ejudice  the  interests  of  the  various  companies  in  which 
we  are  interested  in  the  Balkan  States.  All  these  undertakings  will,  I  am 
sure,  subsequently  strengthen  our  position  in  the  various  export  markets  and 
will  enable  us  to  make  our  business  there  far  more  remunerative  than  would 
be  possible  in  competition.  Another  important  aspect  which  should  not  only 
improve  the  financial  return  to  the  German  companies  themselves  but  have  a 
beneficial  effect  on  our  foreign  trade,  is  that  they  have  now  come  to  agreement 
with  their  German  competitors  for  a  quota  allocation  of  the  home  trade,  and 
as  a  direct  outcome  of  this  there  is  every  hope  that  we  shall  be  able  to  induce 
those  competitors  to  refrain  from,  or  restrict  their  activities  in,  competition 
with  us. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  You  should  state  on  that,  should  you  not, 
that  this  is  purportec^  to  be  a  report  from  Sir  Harry  McGowan  to 
the  directors  of  the  Nobel  Industries,  Ltd.,  not  a  du  Pont  document? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  was  stated  at  the  beginning,  Mr.  du 
Pont. 

At  this  time,  on  January  1,  1926,  did  you  not  sign  a  gentleman's 
agreement  between  yourselves  and  D.A.G.  and  Koln  Rottweiler, 
which  was  introduced  in  the  record  before  as  "  Exhibit  No.  512."  ^ 
Is  that  not  correct? 

Mr.  SwiNT.  No ;  we  did  not  sign  that. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Was  it  not  in  effect  as  a  gentleman's  agree- 
ment beginning  January  1,  1926? 

Mr.  SwiNT.  It  was  in  effect ;  yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Beginning  January  1,  1926? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  was  not  an  agreement  in  effect,  though. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  "What  is  the  difference  between  a  gentleman's 
agreement  and  an  agreement  not  in  effect  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know.  This  was  not  an  agreement, 
because  there  were  not  two  parties  to  it,  as  I  understand  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Let  us  understand  that,  if  you  will,  Mr.  du 
Pont.  Mr.  Swint  seems  to  be  testifjdng  that  that  understanding  was 
in  effect.     Do  I  take  it  that  you  are  denying  that  testimony? 


1  Hearings,  Part  V,  p.  1203. 


2790  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  My  understanding  of  the  facts  is  that  this 
draft  was  drawn  up  and  the  two  parties  to  the  proposed  agreement 
stated  that  the  draft  was  satisfactory  and  that  is  all. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Is  that  all  you  understand  about  that,  Mr. 
Swint  ? 

Mr.  Swint.  I  would  say  that  Mr.  Lammot  du  Font's  sum-up  of 
that  is  correct,  with  the  addition  that  the  provisions  of  the  agreement 
are  being  carried  out  when  it  suits  either  of  the  parties  to  do  so. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  There  is  no  agreement  to  carry  out  the 
provisions. 

Mr.  Swint.  There  is  no  agreement  to  carry  out  the  provisions, 
and  no  one  feels  any  obligation  to  do  so. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Therefore  it  is  not  an  agreement  of  any 
kind,  as  I  understand  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  is  described  at  the  top  as  "  unsigned — 
in  effect  as  gentlemen's  agreement."  I  believe  in  your  testimony 
last  September  you  described,  Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont,  a  gentleman's 
agreement  as  an  agreement  one  could  also  get  out  of.  Do  we  under- 
stand that  this  has  weight  or  does  not  have  weight  in  your  dealings 
with  the  Germans  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know  what  you  mean  by  "  having 
weight."     Do  you  mean,  are  we  bound  by  this  document? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Are  you  guided  by  it? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  We  are  guided  by  it;  yes.  We  are  not 
bound  by  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  document  resulted  from  a  rather  long 
.series  of  negotiations,  did  it  not? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know  how  long  they  were. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Over  a  period  of  some  years  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Possibly. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  At  the  same  time,  in  1926,  is  it  not  correct 
that  you  and  D.A.G.  and  Nobel  together  owned  Explosives  Indus- 
tries, Ltd.,  operating  in  South  America  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  In  1926? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  1926. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  that  is  right. 

Mr.  Swint.  Yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  In  1926,  at  about  the  time  of  the  discussion  of 
this  question  of  Germany's  rearming,  which  was  discussed  the  other 
day  and  which  we  are  approaching  now,  the  relationship  between 
the  British  and  Germans  was  described  in  a  report  from  Mr.  Swint 
to  Mr.  Crane  of  Lazote,  dated  December  17,  1926,  which  I  offer  for 
the  record. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1077  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2868.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  call  attention  to  the  last  paragraph  on  the 
first  page : 
Sir  Harry — 

Meaning  Sir  Harry  McGowan,  I  take  it? 
Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes. 
Mr.  Raushenbush  (reading)  : 

Sir  Harry  explained  that  the  formation  of  I.  C.  I.  is  only  the  first  step  in 
a  comprehensive  scheme  wliich  he  has  in  mind  to  rationalize  chemical  manu- 
facture of  the  world.      The  details  of  such  a  scheme  are  not  worked  out,  not 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2791 

even  in  Sir  Harry's  own  mind,  but  tine  broad  picture  includes  working  arrange- 
ments between  tliree  groups — tlie  I.  G.  in  Germany,  Imperial  Chemical  indus- 
tries in  the  British  Empire  and  du  Fonts  and  the  Allied  Chemical  &  Dye  in 
America.  The  next  step  in  the  scheme  is  an  arrangement  of  some  sort  between 
the  Germans  and  the  British.  He  appreciates  fully,  or  at  least  he  says  he 
does,  the  supreme  difficulty  in  the  way  of  the  final  step,  namely  the  personality 
of  the  management  of  the  Allied  Chemical  &  Dye. 

I  skip  to  the  last  page. 

Mr.  SwiNT.  I  think  it  might  be  proper  to  read  the  very  last 
sentence. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Will  you  do  that? 
Mr.  SwiNT  (reading)  : 

By  this  he  does  not  mean  exchange  of  shares  so  that  each  company  will  own 
part  of  the  shares  of  the  other  two.  Just  what  he  has  in  mind  I  could  not 
learn,  and  it  is  possible  that  the  thing  is  too  intangible  at  present  for  him 
to  express  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Then,  going  to  the  last  page,  I  read  the  fol- 
lowing, and  will  you  put  in  anything  which  I  do  not  think  is  impor- 
tant and  you  do: 

The  only  ominous  note  in  our  whole  conversation  was  his  final  word  that 
he  would  see  to  it  that  no  hostile  steps  against  the  du  Pont  Co.  were  taken 
by  I.C.I,  or  any  combination  which  they  might  arrange  with  the  Germans  with- 
out telling  us  of  it  beforehand.  He  repeated  this  twice.  This  is  perhaps 
capable  of  several  interpretations,  but  to  me  personally  it  indicates  that  while 
he  will  do  everything  reasonably  possible  to  maintain  his  friendship  with  us, 
nevertheless  if  the  interests  of  the  larger  scheme  demand  it,  he  will  regretfully 
accept  the  principle  of  the  greatest  good  for  the  greatest  number. 

This  is  introduced,  Mr.  Swint,  simply  to  indicate  that  the  British 
were  in  very  close  negotiation  with  the  Germans  at  the  time.  Is 
not  that  your  impression  ? 

Mr.  SwiNT.  Yes  that  is  my  impression,  and  I  think  it  was  prin- 
cipally on  nitrogen  and  dyestuffs. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Nitrogen  and  dyestuffs.  The  next  paragraph 
goes  on: 

In  the  course  of  our  conversation,  I  mentioned  our  joint  financial  interests 
in  various  companies  and  expressed  the  belief  that  I.C.I.'s  interest  in  General 
Motors  would  exceed  their  holdings  in  Allied  Chemical.  Personally,  I  was  a 
little  in  doubt  about  this  but,  strictly  speaking,  I  find  it  is  true.  Sir  Harry 
did  not  know  the  extent  of  their  holdings  in  Allied,  but  he  believed  that 
Brunner,  Monds,  together  with  Belgian  Solvay,  held  about  25  percent  of  the 
total  common  stock  of  the  Allied  Chemical  &  Dye  Co. 

Ma}'^  I  interrupt  to  ask,  can  the  Allied  Chemical  &  Dye  be  iden- 
tified as  a  large  competitor  of  yours  in  certain  fields  ? 
Mr.  Swint.  Yes. 
Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  go  on : 

This  agrees  with  my  impreasion.  The  figures  which  I  have  understood  to  be 
true  were  that  Brunner,  Monds  held  100,000  shares  and  Belgian  Solvay  400,000. 
I  have  always  supposed,  rightly  or  wrongly,  that  these  two  together  could  be 
considered  as  a  unit  so  far  as  any  influence  they  might  exert  on  the  conduct 
of  affairs  in  Allied  Chemical.  I  may  be  quite  wrong  about  this,  but  at  the 
first  chance  I  shall  try  to  find  out  just  what  the  relationship  between  Brun- 
ner, Monds,  and  the  Belgian  Solvay  is.  Nobels'  present  holding  in  General 
Motors  is  150,000  shares.  Taking  the  par  value  of  their  investment  in  General 
Motors,  together  with  the  par  value  of  their  investments  in  C.X.L.,  Northern 
Giant,  the  Chilean  Explosives  Co..  and  Nobel  Chemical  Finishes,  Ltd.,  this 
gives  a  total  of  approximately  $25,000,000,  i.  e.,  I.C.I,  will  inherit  from  Nobels' 
investments  to  the  extent  of  $25,000,000  in  companies  which  are  veiy  closely 
associated  with  the  du  Pont  Co.     If  we  consider  Belgian  Solvay  and  Brunner 


2792  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Monds  as  a  single  group,  the  corresponding  figure  for  I.C.I.'s  interest  in  Allied 
would  be  $50,000,000.  If  the  relationship  is  not  so  close,  I.C.I.'s  interest 
alone  would  be  $10,000,000 ;  all  of  the  above  at  parity. 

So  I  take  it  there,  Mr.  Swint,  that  the  purport  of  this  was  to  indi- 
cate that  the  British  and  Belgian  Chemical  interests  had  a  large 
stock  ownership  in  your  competitor? 

Mr.  Swint.  Yes.  You  see,  Mr.  Raushenbush,  Imperial  Chemical 
Industries  had  just  been  formed.  We  had  had  close  relationships 
with  Nobel  for  30  or  40  years.  We  did  not  know  what  influence 
on  that  relationship  between  du  Pont  and  Nobel  the  formation  of 
Imperial  Chemical  Industries  would  have.  This  is  simply  an  at- 
tempt to  indicate  to  my  people  at  home  the  reactions  I  got  in  dis- 
cussing the  matter  with  Sir  Harry  McGowan. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Have  you  had  any  reason  to  believe  this  gen- 
eral situation  of  holdings  has  changed  to  make  the  essential  rela- 
tionships different  at  this  time? 

Mr.  Swint.  No;  I  have  not.  I  do  not  know  that  those  figures 
are  accurate  today  at  all. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Then  I  wish  to  call  attention  to  and  enter  for 
the  record  a  report  from  Colonel  Taylor  dated  November  3,  1926, 
to  Major  Casey,  simply  to  call  attention  again  in  passing  to  remarks 
similar  to  those  discussed  by  Senator  Vandenberg  the  other  day. 

(The  report  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1078  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2870.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush  (reading)  : 

Mr.  Marquardt  of  the  Hamburg  Nobel  had  a  conversation  with  Nobel  in 
which  he  askal  them  if  they  would  not  do  something  to  guard  what  they  called 
their  international  position  in  explosives  in  the  case  of  their  beginning  the 
sale  of  military  explosives,  and  the  Nobel  people  said  that  they  were  willing 
to  maintain  their  attitude,  that  there  was  nothing  in  their  agreement  that 
entitled  the  Germans  to  any  consideration  as  regards  their  military  material  po- 
sition. They  therefore  wrote  to  Mr.  Marquardt  telling  him  so.  I  have  not  a 
copy  of  their  letter,  but  I  have  a  copy  of  Mr.  Marquardt's  answer  which  I  en- 
close. Nobel,  however,  say  that  in  case  the  Council  of  the  League  ofBcially  per- 
mits Germany  to  reenter  the  manufacture  and  export  of  military  material  that 
they  will  have  to  reconsider  the  whole  business  including  their  relations  with 
the  Germans  and  their  relations  with  us  on  the  continent  regarding  military 
material.  This  is  a  very  serious  matter  and  our  officials  who  deal  with  such 
matters  should  prepare  themselves  to  the  eventuality  of  having  to  reconsider 
these  various  agi-eements  in  the  case  of  the  Germans  becoming  fully  authorized 
by  the  League  of  Nations  to  reenter  the  field  of  the  manufacture  and  export 
of  military  material.  Not  being  familiar  with  the  matter,  I  can  offer  no  sug- 
gestions except  to  report  the  reaction  our  conversations  with  the  Germans 
and  Nobels  have  on  my  business  as  mentioned  in  paragraph  18.  While  nothing 
has  been  said,  I  think  that  Nobel  feels  that  it  may  be  necessary  for  both  du 
Pont  and  Nobel  to  withdraw  from  the  military  field  in  Europe  when  Germany 
is  x-eleased  by  the  League. 

Can  you  identify  Mr.  Marquardt  when  they  speak  of  the  Hamburg 
Nobel? 

Mr.  Swint.  Mr.  Marquardt  was  the  export  manager  of  D.A.G. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  is  D.A.G.,  which  has  now  come  to  Nobel, 
apparently,  with  a  proposition  on  military  explosives.  And  D.A.G. 
was  also  the  same  company  that  was  interested  with  you  in  commer- 
cial explosives  in  South  America? 

Mr.  Swint.  Yes.  Mr.  Marquardt  was  also  a  director  of  Ex- 
plosives Industries,  Ltd, 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  He  was  also  an  English  director? 

Mr.  Swint.  No.     He  was  a  director  of  Explosives  Industries,  Ltd. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2793 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  South  American  company? 

Mr.  SwiNT.  That  is  right. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  did  not  gather  that  Mr.  Marquardt  came 
to  Nobel  with  a  proposition  on  military  explosives,  because  this  says 
when  the  Versailles  Treaty  is  modified  the  whole  thing  will  have 
to  be  reconsidered. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  call  attention  to  the  first  four  lines  of  that 
paragraph : 

Mr.  Marquardt  of  the  Hamburg  Nobel — 

which  you  have  identified  as  the  D.A.G.  in  this  case — 

had  a  conversation  with  Nobel — 

Which  I  take  it  is  the  English  Nobel — 

in  which  he  asked  them  if  they  would  not  do  something  to  guard  what  they 
called  their  international  position  in  explosives  in  the  case  of  their  beginning 
the  sale  of  military  explosives. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  their  position  in  explosives  means 
commercial  explosives,  does  it  not,  in  case  they  are  beginning  the 
sale  of  military  explosives. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Then  their  position  in  other  explosives  is  to  be 
guarded,  is  that  it? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  suppose  so.  I  do  not  know,  though. 
I  did  not  have  anything  to  do  with  it. 

Mr  Raushenbush.  The  difference  does  not  accentuate  at  all  one 
way  or  the  other  the  point  for  which  it  was  introduced,  to  show  a 
very  close  relationship  between  the  British  and  the  Germans  in  these 
very  days  when  the  re-armament  of  Germany  and  that  Turkish 
matter  came  up. 

I  want  to  offer  for  the  record  a  report  from  H.  G.  Haskell  and  A. 
Felix  du  Pont  to  the  executive  committee,  dated  December  22,  1926, 
simply  to  call  attention  to  the  last  paragraph  [reading]  : 

In  the  event  of  the  embargo  under  the  Versailles  Treaty  on  the  export  of 
propellants  and  military  ammunition  from  Germany  being  partially  or  wholly 
removed,  this  arrangement  to  be  reviewed. 

The  arrangement  there  apparently  deals  with  du  Pont-Nobel 
cooperation  on  sales  of  military  propellant  powders  and  explosives. 
It  is  simply  calling  attention  to  the  continued  importance  of  the 
German  element  in  the  situation. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1079  ", 
and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2872.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  would  like  to  offer  for  the  record  a  letter 
signed  by  Mr.  Mitchell,  from  Nobel  House,  London,  to  Mr.  Lammot 
du  Pont,  which  indicates  the  same  situation. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1080  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2873.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  read  the  paragraph  marked  "  2" : 

Many  hold  the  opinion  that  it  will  not  be  long  before  Germany,  as  regards 
armaments,  will  be  put  on  identical  terms  with  the  other  signatories  to  the 
Locarno  agreement ;  it  therefore  may  be  that  at  some  future  date  we  may 
want  to  collaborate  with  them  in  propellant  business  as  we  do  on  industrial 
explosives. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  These  relationships,  Mr.  du  Pont> 


Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Did  you  pull  our  answer  to  this  ? 

83876— 35— PT  12 11 


2794  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  don't  remember.    We  have  one  further  com- 
ment on  it  a  little  later  in  the  same  year. 
The  letter  begins  [reading] : 

Our  German  friends  have  been  advised  by  tlieir  agents  in  Valparaiso  that 
the  Government  are  issuing  inquiries  for  the  erection  of  a  TNT  factory  in 
Chile.  It  is  not  quite  clear  yet  whether  the  Germans  are  aware  that  the  whole 
question  of  propellants  is  being  examined  by  the  Chilean  Government,  but  I 
should  say  tliat  tliey  do  know.  At  any  rate  they  ask  us  what  we  know  of  the 
matter  and  therefore  we  must  show  our  hand  to  some  extent  in  answering 
them. 

Mr.  SwiNT.  The  whole  point  of  that,  Mr.  Raushenbush,  is  that 
this  was  a  letter,  the  subject  of  which  was  the  possibility  of  the 
Germans  participating  in  the  building  of  a  plant  in  Chile,  and  these 
other  matters  are  incidental. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  All  these  letters  are  simply  introduced — and 
I  thought  they  would  be  accepted  without  question — as  showing  the 
close  tie-up  between  various  companies  and  rather  involved  interests 
in  the  Balkans  and  elsewhere  on  the  part  of  the  I.C.I,  during 
the  time  when  the  question  of  German  armament  and  disarmament 
was  up. 

Mr.  SwiNT.  To  the  best  of  my  knowledge,  Mr.  Raushenbush,  the 
du  Pont  Co.  has  never  discussed  military  explosives  with  any  of  the 
German  companies,  with  regard  to  the  sale  of  military  explosives. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  This  correspondence  does  not  show  a  very 
close  relation  between  the  du  Pont  Co.  and  the  I.G.  or  D.A.G.  or 
any  of  the  German  companies.  All  of  these  letters  you  refer  to 
refer  to  negotiations  or  conversations  or  discussions  between  Nobel 
and  the  German  companies. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  We  thought  that  agreement,  unsigned  gentle- 
men's arrangement,  or  whatever  you  want  to  call  it 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Properly  called  a  "  draft  of  agreement.'* 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Draft  of  agreement,  which  guides  you  in  your 
dealings 

Senator  Clark.  It  was  put  into  eifect,  was  it  not? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  What  do  you  mean.  Senator? 

Senator  Clark  I  recall  in  the  September  hearings  you  said  in  spite 
of  the  fact  that  the  contract  had  never  been  signed,  it  had  been  put 
in  effect. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  don't  think  I  said  that,  Mr.  Senator.  If 
I  did  say  it,  I  do  not  think  I  was  very  accurate.  When  is  an  agree- 
ment in  effect?  When  it  is  executed,  obviously.  And  that  was  never 
executed. 

Senator  Clark.  It  was  never  executed,  but  you  were  proceeding 
under  the  agreement,  according  to  the  testimony. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  was  a  draft  of  an  agreement  which 
appeared  to  be  satisfactory  to  both  sides  but  which  was  not  executed 
and  was  therefore  not  in  effect,  and  by  which  we  have  been  guided. 

Senator  Clark.  You  testified  before  that  you  operated  under  the 
agreement. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know  whether  you  call  it  operat- 
ing under  an  agreement  or  not. 

Senator  Clark.  I  am  just  referring  to  your  testimony  in  that 
regard. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  maintain  it  cannot  be  an  agreement,  un- 
less it  is  executed. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2795' 

Senator  Clark.  You  have  a  verbal  agreement? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  is  not  a  verbal  agreement.    It  is  a  draft. 

Senator  Clark.  You  have  an  unsigned  contract  and  at  the  same 
time  operate  under  it.    As  a  legal  proposition  we  all  understand  that. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  We  did  not  agree  with  the  other  party  to 
be  bound  by  it.    I  maintain,  therefore,  that  it  is  not  an  agreement. 

Senator  Clark.  What  is  your  course  of  conduct  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  maintain  it  is  a  draft  of  an  agreement — 
it  was  not  executed — by  which  our  operations  are  to  some  extent 
guided. 

Mr.  SwiNT.  It  was  a  tender  under  which  we  feel  no  obligations. 
We  may  fulfill  the  provisions  of  the  agreement  or  not,  as  we  choose^ 
and  the  Germans  feel  the  same  way  about  it. 

Senator  Clark.  You  have  actually  fulfilled  the  provisions  of  the 
agreement,  haven't  you? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  we  have,  to  date. 

Mr.  SwiNT.  To  the  extent  of  information  obtained  on  plant  visits. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  But  I  would  have  no  hesitation  at  all  in 
saying  that  tomorrow  we  might  violate  the  draft. 

Senator  Clark.  I  understand  that,  and  that  was  your  testimony 
before,  but  you  did  testify  that  you  did  operate  under  that  agreement,- 
even  though  it  was  not  signed. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  We  operate  in  accordance  with  it  today. 

Senator  Clark.  I  realize  you  are  not  bound  by  it,  as  you  have  said- 
Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  point  being  made  here,  it  seems  from  this> 
testimony,  is  simply  that  there  were  close  connections  between  the 
British  and  the  Germans  and,  to  some  extent,  yourself,  with  the 
British  at  least,  during  the  years  when  Germany  or  the  German 
powder  companies  were  exerting  some  influence  to' get  back  into  the 
military  market.  The  extent  of  this  agreement  will  probably  be  a 
matter  of  opinion,  but  I  offer  as  an  exhibit  for  proper  numbering  a 
letter  dated  November  7,  1928,  rather  a  memorandum,  signed  by 
J.  K.  Jenney,  to  Mr.  O'Gorman  of  the  smokeless  powder  department, 
headed,  "  Chile  Military  Factory." 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1081  ", 
and  appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  This  reads : 

The  minutes  of  the  meeting  of  October  12  with  Sir  Harry  McGowan  state 
that  the  Germans  had  turned  down  the  15-percent  participation  offered  to  them, 
in  the  C.S.A.E. 

What  is  that? 

Mr.  SwiNT.  Compania  Sud  American  de  Explosivos. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  was  a  Chilean  explosive  company  ? 

Mr.  SwiNT.  Dynamite. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Proceeding  with  this  [reading]  : 

In  this  connection  Sir  Harry  stated  that  Dr.  Mueller  had  taken  this  action 
for  lack  of  capital.  In  spite  of  the  fact  that  his  company  is  controlled  by  the 
I.G.  he  apparently  was  not  anxious  to  call  on  them  to  finance  the  iiro.lect  for 
him.  He  has  agreed,  however,  not  to  bid  against  I.C.I,  and  duPont  "for  the 
military  factory.  It  is  my  recollection  that  Sir  Harry  stated  that  the  Germans 
would  offer  a  dummy  bid. 

It  was  not  considered  desirable  to  include  the  whole  story  in  the  minutes.  I 
have  previously  orally  informed  Major  Casey  and  Mr.  J.  T.  Brown. 

That  shows  that  by  that  so-called  "  dummy  bid  "  that  is  reported,, 
there  is  some  close  cooperation? 


2796  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  SwiNT.  That  sounds  a  little  mysterious,  but  it  is  not.  At 
that  particular  time  the  Germans  were  quite  short  of  cash.  We  of- 
fered them  this  participation  in  the  dynamite  factory  in  Chile,  and 
they  told  us  they  felt  they  could  not  afford  it  at  the  moment,  did  not 
have  the  money  to  put  into  it. 

The  question  of  building  a  military  factory,  as  they  recognized, 
was  bound  up  to  some  extent  with  the  commercial  plant,  because  the 
requirements  of  Chile  were  so  small  they  could  not  possibly  build  an 
economical  unit  there  and  produce  military  explosives  at  a  reason- 
able cost.  The  fact  there  already  existed  a  dynamite  plant,  some  of 
the  facilities  of  which,  such  as  the  acid  manufacture,  could  be  used 
for  the  manufacture  of  military  explosives,  gave  the  firms  who  had 
the  investment  in  the  dynamite  factory  an  advantage  in  bidding  on 
the  military  factory. 

The  Germans  did  not  want  to  be,  so  they  said,  placed  in  the  posi- 
tion of  refusing  to  bid,  and  perhaps  thereby  incurring  some  little 
enmity  from  the  Chilean  Government,  so  they  followed  the  course  ij 
-outlined  here. 

Mr.  Kaushenbush.  And  they  put  in  a  dummy  bid? 

Mr.  SwiNT.  They  put  in  a  dummy  bid ;  yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  offer  for  introduction  a  letter  to  Mr.  Pick- 
ard  from  Mr.  Crane,  dated  December  26,  1928. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1082  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2874.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  heading  of  this  memorandum  is,  "  I.G. 
Nitrogen  Plans  in  United  States  ",  and  starting  at  the  beginning 
I  read: 

This  will  confirm  our  cable  of  December  22. 

Mr.  Burton,  president  of  the  American  Agricultural  Chemical  Co.,  recently 
told  me  that  there  would  be  a  third  large  synthetic  ammonia  plant  in  this 
country  as  foreign  interests  were  going  to  build  a  plant  and  had  already  ar- 
ranged for  the  necessary  financing.  Mr.  MacDowell,  president  of  the  Armour 
Fertilizer  Works,  has  just  told  me  that  the  I.G.  are  going  ahead  with  a  syn- 
thetic ammonia  plant,  not  from  natural  gas,  but  located  in  the  coal  fields,  and 
he  appeared  to  have  received  this  information  from  Mr.  Krauch  or  Mr. 
Schneider,  who  as  you  know  have  been  over  here.  Carl  Peters  has  given  out 
an  interview  that  the  I.G.  are  considering  building  a  synthetic  ammonia  plant 
in  the  United  States  in  alliance  with  a  powerful  industrial  group  who  are  not 
now  engaged  in  nitrogen  fixation. 

These  statements  were  sufficiently  affirmative  to  make  us  think  that  a 
United  States  plant  is  again  receiving  serious  consideration  by  the  I.G.,  and 
it  is  bad  news.  My  feeling  is  that  ultimately  we  will  by  our  own  efficiency 
stand  on  our  ow^n  feet  and  not  be  fearful  that  a  second  large  competitor  will 
become  established  in  the  ammonia  field,  but  that  during  the  next  2  or  3  years 
there  is  grave  danger  of  increased  competition  which  once  established  would 
always  have  to  be  dealt  with,  and  that  we  should  do  everything  we  can  to  keep 
the  I.G.  from  coming  in. 

Can  you  explain  that  at  all,  Mr.  Swint,  or  does  that  explain  itself  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  I  was  connected  with  this — these 
things  that  are  mentioned — ^but  I  do  not  know  just  what  you  want 
explained. 

Mr.  Kaushenbush.  The  I.G.  at  this  time  did  have  the  idea  of 
building  an  ammonia  plant  in  this  country,  did  it  not  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  This  states  that  that  was  reported  from  j  J 
several  sources. 

Mr.  Kaushenbush.  Do  you  know  whether  that  is  a  correct  report, 
or  what? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY  2797 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  They  have  not  built  one  yet. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  No  ;  but  do  you  know  whether  it  was  generally 
and  very  seriously  considered  by  your  company,  that  they  might 
so  do. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  was  so  reported  to  us. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  And  frequently? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  As  this  states,  we  thought  the  report  was 
sufficiently  affirmative  to  make  us  think  that  a  United  States  plant 
was  again  receiving  serious  consideration. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Is  not  that  answered  in  the  next  paragraph  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  That  is  Bosch's  statement. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  He  is  head  of  the  I.G.  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  think  he  ought  to  know  something  about 
what  he  intends  to  do. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  He  said  the  building  of  additional  ammonia 
plants  anywhere  was  foolishness,  that  is,  their  building  them.  In 
other  words,  we  had  a  variety  of  reports  on  the  subject  and  we  had  to 
guess  what  was  right. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  He  points  out  that  [reading]  : 

If  they  are  seriously  considering  an  ammonia  plant  in  the  United  States,  it 
is  absolutely  inconsistent  with  their  declared  policy  a  year  ago.  The  over- 
production that  they  spoke  about  then  seems  even  more  sure  now  to  be  in 
process  of  realization. 

You  will  recall  that  the  upshot  of  our  negotiations  with  the  I.  G.  a  year  ago 
was  that  we  could  not  get  together  on  tlie  control  of  the  enterprise,  particularly 
as  affecting  the  size  of  the  plant  and  that  they  proposed  to  hold  the  whole 
matter  in  abeyance  and  see  us  again  in  May  of  this  past  year,  which  they  did 
not  do. 

The  only  point  for  which  I  am  offering  this  in  the  record  is  that 
the  I.  G.  apparently — and  this  is  only  one  of  several  letters — did  have 
that  possibility  in  mind,  and  it  was  seriously  considered  by  the 
company. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  that  was  true. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  And  those  negotiations  or  that  idea  of  theirs 
was  discussed  not  only  in  1928,  as  indicated  in  the  second  paragraph, 
but  in  1927,  as  indicated  in  the  fourth. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  You  pulled  the  report  of  that  1927  discus- 
sion, did  you? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Did  we  enter  it? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  No,  you  have  not  offered  it  yet. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  offer  for  the  record  a  letter  from  Bickford  & 
Co.,  A.  G.,  London  Office  Nobel  Industries  Ltd.,  Nobel  House,  the 
letter  being  from  Vienna,  dated  July  9,  1928,  to  Colonel  Taylor,  dis- 
cussing the  Bulgaria  Powder  Factory,  which  has  some  interest. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1083  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2875.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  This  reads: 

Deak  Colonex  Tayloe  (Bulgaria  Powder  Factory)  :  Replying  to  your  question 
of  July  5,  I  should  like  to  say  that  Nobel  Industries,  in  view  of  the  small 
size  of  its  powder  factory  desired  by  the  Bulgarians  and  the  consequent  small 
amount  of  profit  to  be  made  out  of  erecting  a  factory,  did  not  consider  it  worth 
all  the  work  and  risk  that  would  be  entailed,  except  perhaps  as  a  means 
of  obtaining  interim  powder  orders  during  the  building  period.  These  interim 
powder  orders,  which  might  run  to  about  80  tons  p.a.,  cannot  be  guaranteed  by 
the  Bulgarian  War  Office,  because  it  has  to  seek  permission  every  time  it  wishes- 


2798  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

to  import.     Nevertheless,  they  are  likely  to  be  given  to  the  people  contracting 
to  erect  the  factory. 

There  was  a  further  reason  why  we  did  not  wish  to  hand  in  an  offer  for 
the  powder  factory,  and  that  is  that  for  us  to  erect  a  military  powder  factory 
in  Bulgaria  would  have  seriously  prejudiced  our  chances  of  succeeding  in  our 
negotiations  for  the  industrial  explosives  monopoly  in  Jugoslavia. 

Does  not  that  part  of  the  letter  indicate  fairly  clearly,  that  last 
paragraph,  that  in  the  Balkans,  at  least,  the  commercial  interests 
and  the  military  interests  of  Nobel's  have  to  be  considered  side  by 
side?  Here  they  did  not  want  to  bid  on  a  Bulgarian  powder  fac- 
tory because  it  "  would  have  seriously  prejudiced  our  chances  of 
succeeding  in  our  negotiations  for  the  industrial  explosives  monopoly 
in  Jugoslavia." 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Po>'t.  I  would  not  like  to  venture  any  opinion  on 
what  Nobel's  have  to  do  with  respect  to  their  internal  affairs. 

Mr.  Rausiienbush.  In  their  own  statement  here,  of  Bickford, 
which  is  one  of  their  subsidiaries,  they  are  certainly  stating  that 
proposition,  if  that  letter  stands  examination. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  They  are  entitled  to  their  opinions  and 
statements,  but  I  would  not  like  to  venture  an  opinion  on  the  subject. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  In  view  of  the  fact  that  this  letter  was  written 
in  Vienna  in  1928,  at  a  time  when  this  German  question  was  up,  as 
indicated  in  the  previous  examination,  the  following  paragraph  be- 
comes of  importance.     [Reading:] 

My  energies,  therefore,  were  directed  toward  getting  somebody  else  to 
tender  for  the  erection  of  the  factories  and  on  the  understanding  that  if  they 
were  successful  they  would  endeavor  to  stipulate  that  the  interim  orders  be 
passed  to  them  for  execution  by  us.  I  was  successful  in  this  respect,  but  it 
meant  our  undertaking  to  finance  the  Koln-Rottweiler-Bratislava  proposition 
in  return  for  a  third  share  of  the  profits  (if  any)  made  on  the  erection  of  the 
factories.  I  think  you  must  agree  that  this  is  the  best  arrangement  that 
could  be  made  in  the  circumstances. 

The  interpretation,  subject  to  comment  which  can  be  put  on  this 
very  clearly,  is  that  they  were  taking  in  the  German  firm  Koln- 
Rottweiler,  which  was  the  very  one  indicated  the  other  day  as  having 
gotten  the  Turkish  order,  military  order. 

Mr.  SwiNT.  That  I  think,  is  not  the  German  firm  itself.  It  is 
probably  controlled  by  the  German  firm,  but  it  is  one  of  the  sub- 
sidiaries of  theirs  in  the  Balkan  countries. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Yes,  the  Koln-Rottweiler  interests  have  appa- 
rently^ taken  in  this  Bratislava  thing. 

In  1928  we  find  an  exhibit  entered  in  the  earlier  hearings,  "  Ex- 
hibit No.  461  ",  that  I.C.I. ,  the  British  interests,  which  was  dis- 
cussed so  often,  had  a  list  of  investments  and  foreign  alliances,  and 
I  wish  to  call  attention  simply  to  the  existence  on  that  list  of  a  con- 
siderable number  of  companies  in  the  Balkans.^ 

In  1926  the  close  relationships  between  Nobel  and  Koln-Rottweiler 
were  described  in  the  exhibits  entered  by  Senator  Vandenberg  under 
the  head  of  numbers  '"  856  "  and  "  857  ",  and  I  call  attention  to  them 
here  ai;rtin.  or  certain  portions  of  what  they  say,  simply  in  the  long 
line  of  business  negotiations  between  the  British  and  Germans  which 
seem  to  have  been  going  on  during  the  years. ^ 


1  Hearings,   Part   V,  p.   10S3. 

==  Hearings,  Part  IX,  pp.  2181  and  2189. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2799 

It  was  on  October  7,  1926,  that  Taylor  took  up  this  matter  of 
German  armaments  reported  to  him  by  a  representative  of  the 
Czechoslovakian  company  and  said  [reading]  : 

I  am  going  to  talk  to  Nobel  about  it  in  England,  next  week.  I  do  not 
know  all  the  details  of  Nobel's  arrangement  with  the  Hamburg  Nobel  Dyna- 
mite Co.  We  have  also  been  in  relation  with  them  through  Nobel  and  our 
London  office,  but  I  think  it  will  be  a  great  shame  if  our  industrial  relations 
with  the  German  explosive  industry  were  of  such  a  type  that  we  would  wink 
at  their  violation  of  the  treaties  or  permit  them  to  enter  the  military  export 
business.     I  will  keep  in  touch  with  this  matter  and  inform  you  further. 

I  call  attention  also  in  this  connection  to  the  letter  of  November  5, 
1926,  from  Major  Casey  to  Colonel  Taylor,  identified  and  discussed 
the  other  day  as  "  Exhibit  No.  857  ",  in  which  Major  Casey  says  on 
the  first  page,  fourth  paragraph  [reading]  : 

You  are  quite  correct  in  your  analysis  of  the  situation.  We  believe  Nobel 
could  actually  prevent  Koln-Rottweiler  or  other  German  concerns  from  enter- 
ing the  military  ix)wder  business  providing  they  saw  fit  to  bring  pressure  to 
bear  through  English  Government  channels. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  That  is  Colonel  Taylor's  opinion. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  is  Major  Casey's  opinion  in  this  case. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Or  Major  Casey's. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Yes.  It  was  in  1926  that  this  gentlemen's 
agreement  we  have  had  some  discussion  about  was  signed,  was  it  not, 
a  little  before  these  letters — or  not  signed,  or  initialed,  or  what  have 
you? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know  of  any  gentlemen's  agree- 
ment. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Now  it  is  not  a  gentlemen's  agreement  any 
more.     It  was  a  few  moments  ago. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  referred  to  it  as  a  draft  of  an  agreement. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  A  draft  of  a  gentlemen's  agreement. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  A  draft  of  an  agreement. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  reading  at  the  top  of  that  agreement 
says,  "  Unsigned  gentlemen's  agi^eement." 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Somebody  added  that  in  pencil,  if  I  re- 
member correctly. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  was  in  existence  before  these  letters  of 
October  and  November  were  exchanged  and  before  Colonel  Taylor 
made  the  remark: 

I  think  it  will  be  a  great  shame  if  our  industrial  relations  with  the  German 
explosive  industry  were  of  such  a  type  that  we  would  wink  at  their  violation 
of  the  treaties  or  permit  them  to  enter  the  military  export  business. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Colonel  Taylor  does  not  refer  to  that  draft, 
does  he? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  What  draft?     No;  I  am  referring  to  it. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Senator  Pope.  Mr.  Raushenbush,  were  those  pencil  notations  on 
th«re  at  the  time  you  first  received  the  paper? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  so  believe. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  that  is  correct. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Yes;  now  I  am  calling  attention  to  the  con- 
nection in  dates.     He  refers  to — 

Our  industrial  relations  with  the  German  explosive  industry  were  of  such 
a  type  that  we  would  wink  at  their  violation  of  the  treaties  or  permit  them  to 
enter  the  military  export  business. 


2800  MUNITIONS    IKDUSTKY 

That  agreement,  or  what  we  will  call  that  draft,  whatever  it  was, 
was  supposed  to  expire  in  1935,  was  it  not? 

Mr.  SwiNT.  I  do  not  recall. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Do  you  recall,  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  was  dated  1926,  was  it  not?  It  ran 
for  10  years.  I  presume  that  would  make  it  expire  at  the  end  of 
1935. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Has  that  arrangement  been  extended  since 
that  time?     Have  you  had  another  meeting  about  that? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  think  we  ever  had  another  meet- 
ing when  that  draft  was  discussed. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Is  that  still  the  guiding  document  in  your 
relations  with  the  German  explosives  companies,  or  has  that  been 
superseded  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  There  is  no  agreement  in  effect  with  the 
German  explosives  companies  now  at  all,  and  I  think  there  has  not 
been  since  1926. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Let  us  come  back  to  this  guiding  draft,  call- 
ing it  that,  that  has  been  in  effect  to  the  extent  you  wish  to  observe 
it,  hasn't  it? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  We  have  been  guided  by  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  You  have  been  guided  by  it? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes.  That  is  what  I  answered,  to  an 
extent. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  am  asking,  has  it  been  changed?  Have 
you  made  any  further  change? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Not  that  I  know  of. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Did  you  have  some  meetings  with  these  groups 
in  October  and  November  of  this  year  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  did  not. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  company  did  not? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know  whether  some  of  our  foreign 
representatives  did  or  not.     Do  you  know,  Mr.  Swint? 

Mr.  SwiNT.  Members  of  our  London  office  see  those  men  fre- 
quently. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  No  ;  I  meant  to  revise  this  thing  ? 

Mr.  Swint.  No. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  There  have  been  no  such  meetings  ? 

Mr.  Swint.  No. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  There  has  been  no  revision  of  that  draft, 
I  am  sure. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  All  right. 

Senator  Pope.  Is  there  a  time  for  the  expiration  of  that  draft, 
Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  The  draft  provided  an  expiration  10  years 
from  the  date  of  execution,  but  as  it  never  has  been  executed,  I  do 
not  know  when  it  would  expire. 

Senator  Pope.  So  far  as  you  know  now,  it  will  continue  to  guide 
your  dealings  in  the  future? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  so.     I  think  that  is  quite  likely. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Mr.  Chairman,  with  j^our  permission,  so  far 
I  have  been  simply  introducing  evidence  to  complete  the  record  on 
the  interests,  commercial,  and  industrial  interests  running  across  the 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2801 

national  boundaries.  There  is  some  evidence  to  the  effect  that  some 
of  the  governments  were  somewhat  interested  in  the  success  of  their 
chemical  companies  and  the  expansion.  There  were  also  these  two 
analyses  by  Colonel  Taylor  and  Major  Casey,  taken  for  what  they 
are  worth,  to  the  effect  that  some  of  those  industrial  connections  may 
have  had  some  influence  on  a  very  important  military  and  political 
question,  the  one  of  rearming  Germany. 

With  your  permission,  I  would  simply  like  to  put  in  for  the  general 
information  of  the  committee  some  further  evidence,  secured  from 
the  files  of  the  company,  in  regard  to  some  of  the  rather  important 
European  connections,  for  the  purpose  of  giving  that  picture. 

I  wish  to  offer  for  the  record  an  excerpt  from  a  letter  of  Taylor 
to  Casey,  dated  February  18,  1928. 

(The  excerpt  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1084  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2876.) 

Mr.  Eaushenbush.  Paragraph  11  reads: 

The  competitors  for  this  business  are  very  few :  Aktiebolaget  Bofors,  of 
Sweden :  Vickers-Armstrong,  of  England ;  and  Schneider,  of  France.  As  you 
know,  these  three  firms  work  under  a  common  agreement  and  apparently,  if 
Bofore  does  not  get  the  business,  it  will  got  to  Schneider.  We  believe  that  the 
H.I.H.  is  active  on  this  enquiry  and  will  probably  present  a  bid  also. 

I  understand  that  Major  Casey  and  Mr.  Felix  du  Pont  were  ex- 
cused, but  can  anybody  present  give  us  any  further  information  on 
this  report  that  Bofors,  who  have  been  identified  as  one  of  your  big- 
gest competitors,  Vickers-Armstrong,  and  Schneider,  of  France,  work 
under  a  common  agreement  and  if  apparently  Bofors  does  not  get 
the  business  it  will  got  to  Schneider  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  That  seems  to  be  an  opinion  expressed  by 
Colonel  Taylor,  but  I  do  not  know  that  I  can  confirm  that  opinion 
or  say  that  I  know  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Is  there  anybody  here  from  the  company  who 
has  any  further  information  on  that? 

]\Ir.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  think  so. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  If  not,  I  would  like  to  present 

Senator  Pope.  Just  a  minute.  Mr.  Felix  du  Pont,  do  you  have  any 
further  information  on  this  matter? 

Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont.  No,  sir.  Colonel  Taylor  would  know  more 
about  that  than  anybody. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  In  that  connection,  I  would  like  to  offer  for 
the  record  a  note  from  Mr.  Swint  to  Explosives  Industries,  Ltd., 
dated  February  9,  1928,  to  be  given  the  appropriate  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1085  "  and  ap- 
pears in  full  in  the  text.) 

Mr.  Eaushenbush.  This  reads : 

DE14.B  Sirs  :  We  have  recently  been  getting  some  information  on  Bofors,  and 
have  prepared  the  attached  chart  which  shows  just  what  the  relationship  of 
one  company  is  to  another,  as  well  as  significant  information  on  personnel, 
capital  structure,  earnings,  and  dividends  for  the  past  3  years.  I  trust  that 
this  will  be  of  interest  to  you. 

May  we  have  that  chart  also  made  part  of  the  record? 
Senator  Pope.  Very  well. 

(The  chart  referred  to  was  transposed  and  marked  "  Exhibit  No. 
1085-A"  and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2877.)^ 

>  Photostat  of  original  chart  is  in  the  committee  file. 


2802  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Mr.  Swint,  do  you  know  at  this  time  who 
controlled  Bof ors  ?    What  actual  group  that  was  ? 

Mr.  Swint.  I  do  not,  Mr.  Raushenbush.  Matters  of  this  sort  were 
of  very  little  interest  to  me.  I  had  a  great  many  other  things  to  do 
and  paid  very  little  attention  to  military  affairs. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  We  have  heard  from  Major  Casey,  and  Colonel 
Taylor  reports  that  this  was  one  of  your  big  competitors  in  the 
military  powder  business. 

I  wish  to  offer  a  letter  addressed  to  you,  Mr.  Swint,  dated  March 
19,  1V)29. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1086  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2878.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  This  is  signed  by  Colonel  Taylor  and  describes 
the  Bofors  groups  and  states  at  this  time  his  idea  is  that  this  entire 
group  is  controlled  by  Kreuger  &  Toll,  which  is  a  holding  company, 
which  also  controls  the  Swedish  match  industry. 

You  would  say  you  have  no  further  information  on  that? 

Mr.  Swint.  No. 

Senator  Pope.  Does  that  give  the  names  of  the  groups  ? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Yes;  it  does.  They  are  sort  of  Scandinavian 
names. 

Mr.  Swint.  I  mean  to  say  that  I  have  no  further  information  than 
what  is  contained  in  these  letters  of  several  years  ago. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  is  what  I  mean. 

Senator  Pope.  TMs  will  be  a  part  of  the  record  as  an  exhibit? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Yes;  I  have  offered  that  as  an  exhibit. 

I  also  offer  for  the  record  a  letter  signed  by  Philip  J.  Kimball, 
from  your  London  office  to  your  Paris  office. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1087  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2879.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  This  says  in  the  second  paragraph : 

It  might  be  well  to  explain  our  present  position  with  regard  to  Bofors  in 
the  South  American  commercial  explosives  market.  This  company,  last  year, 
sold  approximately  150  tons  in  that  market,  and  it  is  thought  that  it  might  be 
well  to  make  a  quota  arrangement  with  them.  It  was  agreed,  during  the  last 
board  meeting  of  Explosives  Industries,  Ltd.,  held  on  June  14,  that  Mr. 
Marquard  of  D.A.G.,  would  open  negotiations  with  Mr.  Herlin  early  in  August 
to  bring  about  the  desired  aiTangenient. 

It  was  further  agreed  at  tiiis  meeting  that  no  mention  would  be  made  of 
propellants,  but  it  was  the  feeling  of  those  present  that  Bofors'  representative 
might  possibly  want  to  bring  in  propellants.  If  so,  it  is  understood  that  Mr. 
Felix  du  Pont  has  expressed  his  willingness  to  attempt  a  deal  with  Bofors. 

Nothing  ever  happened  to  that  propellant's  business,  did  it? 

Mr.  Swint.  No. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  How  about  the  other«part  of  it?  Did  Bofors 
get  a  quota  from  D.A.G.  in  the  South  American  market,  or  from 
Explosives  Industries,  Ltd.? 

Mr.  Swint.  They  did  not  get  a  quota.  It  was  understood  no 
attempt  would  be  made  to  hinder  them  in  selling  up  to  a  certain  ton- 
nage— I  do  not  recall  the  amount — up  to  300  tons,  or  something. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  practically  meant  they  had  a  right  to  get 
300  tons  in  the  South  American  market? 

Mr.  Swint.  They  had  a  right  to  it  under  any  conditions. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  they  would  not  encounter  any  hostilities 
of  the  group  making  it  up.    Is  that  right  ? 


MUNITIONS    TNDTTSTEY  2803' 

Mr.  SwiNT.  That  is  right.  That  was  not  an  ao:reBment  with  du- 
Pont,  but  an  agreement  with  Explosives  Industries,  Ltd. 

Mr.  Kaushenbush.  In  which  du  Pont  and  D.A.G.  and  I.C.I,  had^ 
a  part? 

Mr.  SwiNT.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  As  stockholders. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  As  stockholders. 

I  oli'er  for  the  I'ecord  the  correspondence  between  Bofors  and 
E.I.L.  concerning  the  arrangement  made  at  that  time. 

(The  document  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  1088"'  and 
is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2879.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  In  Avhich  "  Bofors  bind  themselves  to  limit 
their  exports  of  industrial  explosives  to  330  tons  of  2,000  pounds 
each  per  annum.  This  quantity  shall,  as  far  as  possible,  be  disposed 
of  in  South  America." 

I  offer  a  letter  for  the  record 

]\Ir.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Jnst  a  moment.     Look  at  this  a  moment, 

Mr.  SwiNT.  I  was  in  error  in  saying  that  arrangement  was  with 
Explosives  Industries,  Ltd.  It  was  with  D.A.G.,  as  this  plainly 
states,  and  the  reason  for  that  was,  that  was  only  a  part,  as  I  un- 
derstand it,  of  the  agreemeut  between  D.A.G.  and  Bofors,  which 
embraced  other  countries  in  other  parts  of  the  world  on  dynamite. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Will  you  say  that  last  sentence  again,  please? 

(The  answer,  as  above  recorded,  was  read  by  the  reporter.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Have  they  got  a  general  agreement  with  the 
Germans  on  dynamite  all  over  the  world  ? 

Mr.  SwiNT.  I  do  not  know  how  general  it  is,  but  it  has  been 
reported  to  us  the}^  have  an  understanding  on  the  division  of  the 
export  markets  between  themselves.  As  far  as  South  America  is 
concerned,  D.A.G. 's  part  is  taken  through  E.I.L. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  want  to  offer  for  the  record  a  letter  from 
Casey  to  Taylor — I  did  not  realize  it  was  coming  out — of  February 
9,  1934,  which  simply  bears  on  the  Bofors  matter. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1089  "  and  ap- 
pears in  full  in  the  text.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush  (reading)  : 

Replying  to  your  T-2S05  of  January  25  in  which  you  indicate  that  Bofors 
is  not  sMtistied  with  the  results  of  their  price-cutting  campaign  and  that  Mr. 
Sohlman,  managing  director  of  Bofors,  has  indicated  his  desire  to  oi>en  nego- 
tiations for  the  purpose  of  putting  an  end  to  this  situation. 

Such  a  conversation  meets  with  our  entire  approval  hut  we  thoroughly  agree 
with  you  that  the  request  for  such  an  interview  should  originate  with  Bofors, 
We  have  (Utire  coniidence  in  your  tact  and  judgnieni  to  conduct  the  matter 
as  the  circumstances  may  require. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Does  it  not  refer  to  commercial  explosives? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  No.  I  think,  Mr.  du  Pont,  that  since  it  goes 
from  Casey  to  Taylor  it  is  probably  a  conversation  on  military 
explosives. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  does  not  say  so  there. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  conies  up  agahi. 

I  want  to  offer  for  the  record  a  letter  from  Taylor  to  Smith  of 
I.C.I,  at  London,  dated  May  25.  1931,  in  which  he  describes  the 
reasons  why  this  agreement  ap}jarcntly  was  not  gone  into  any 
further. 


2804  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1090  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2880.) 
Mr.  K.AUSHENBUSH.  It  begins  [reading]  : 

I  had  the  visit  this  morning  from  Mr.  Sohlman  of  Bofors.  We  talked 
about  the  Greek  adjudication  and  both  expressed  our  dissatisfaction  with  the 
manner  in  which  the  Greeks  have  conducted  the  affair." 

It  goes  on  later  [reading]  : 

We  then  discussed  the  question  of  the  possibility  of  an  agreement  among 
the  principal  powder  manufacturers  whereby  we  would  not  present  bids  if  the 
requirements  of  the  customers  were  unreasonable.  We  both  thought  that  such 
a  thing  might  be  possible. 

We  also  discussed  the  possibility  of  making  an  agreement  among  the  manu- 
facturers on  standard  laboratory  methods. 

We  did  not  talk  about  a  price  agreement,  nor  of  any  territory  agreement 
-of  any  kind. 

We  discussed  at  length  the  general  question  of  the  possibility  of  an  agree- 
ment of  some  kind  among  military  manufacturers,  and  we  both  thought  that 
while  such  an  agreement  might  be  possible  as  far  as  the  manufacturers  them- 
selves were  concerned,  that  due  to  the  political  situation  in  Europe  today  and 
due  to  the  general  attitude  towards  arms  manufacturers,  any  attempt  to  make 
a  formal  agreement  among  manufacturers  would  cause  the  loudest  and  most 
•violent  criticism  and  put  us  in  a  very  disagreeable  position.  We  would  be 
accused  of  joining  together  to  foment  wars,  increase  armament,  etc.  And  we 
agreed  that  an  agreement  among  military  manufacturers  and  private  manu- 
facturers was  a  very  different  matter,  and  that  any  agreement  made  among 
military  manufacturers  would  be  a  grave  political  error. 

Mr.  Sohlman  also  stated  that  their  powder  factory  was  getting  pretty  filled 
up  with  orders  and  very  soon  they  would  be  no  longer  able  to  offer  reasonable 
deliveries;  also  that  they  are  not  feeling  so  liberal  about  matters  as  they 
have  in  the  past. 

That  seems  to  give  the  reason  why  the  discussion  did  not  go  any 
further,  does  it  not? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  agree  with  that. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  beg  your  pardon.  What  do  you  not  agree 
to  there? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  see  the  connection  between  this 
and  the  previous  letter. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  previous  letter? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  The  previous  letter  to  which  I  referred  is 
the  one  we  did  not  know  what  they  were  talking  about. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  one  from  Major  Casey  telling  Colonel 
Taylor  to  go  ahead  with  the  discussions  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  The  one  I  said  we  did  not  know  what  they 
were  talking  about,  and  you  said  it  would  come  out  later,  and  you 
seem  to  think  this  explains  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Is  this  the  one  [producing  document]  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir;  this  is  the  one.  This  does  not 
say  whether  they  are  talking  about  military  explosives  or  commercial 
explosives. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  And  I  offered  the  explanation  that  since  that 
is  a  document  from  Casey  to  Taylor,  it  presumably  involved  military 
explosives. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  might  be  a  fair  presumption,  but  it  does 
not  prove  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  There  is  a  clear  reason  given  here  why  this 
discussion  went  no  further. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  This  letter  does  not  say  anything  about 
that  letter  does  it  ?     I  fail  to  note  it,  if  it  does. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2805 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  follows.    This  states: 

*     *     *     Mr.  Sohlman,  managing  director  of  Bofors,  has  indicated  his  desire 
to  open  negotiations  for  the  puiiDose  of  putting  an  end  to  this  situation. 
Such  a  conversation  meets  with  our  entire  approval — 

And  then  this  comes  back  to  Mr.  Sohlman,  the  next  letter,  "  Ex- 
hibit No.  1090  ",  who  talked  about  the  Greek  adjudication. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  What  is  the  date  of  the  previous  letter  ? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  This  one  was  in  February  [referring  to  "  Ex- 
hibit No.  1089 "]  and  this  in  May  [referring  to  "  Exhibit  No. 
1090"]. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  may  be  on  the  subject  and  may  not  be. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  commercial  man  for  Bofors,  Mr.  Swint, 
is  not  Sohlman,  but  that  other  fellow  we  had. 

Mr.  Swint.  Herlin.  I  think  he  also  handles  military  matters. 
Sohlman  is  the  director. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  do  not  want  to  spend  too  much  time  on  it. 

Mr.  Bradway.  I  do  not  think  there  is  any  connection  between 
those  two  things,  Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  first  letter  referred  to 
something  else. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  What  are  you  testifying  to,  Mr.  Bradway? 

Mr.  Bradway.  As  I  gathered  it.     I  would  rather  see  the  letter. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  is  right  before  you.     The  one  which  states : 

We  then  discussed  the  question  of  the  possibility  of  an  agreement  among  the 
principal  powder  manufacturers  whereby  we  would  not  present  bids  if  the  re- 
quirements of  the  customers  were  unreasonable.  We  both  thought  that  such  a 
thing  might  be  possible. 

It  goes  on  there,  at  the  end  of  the  page : 

We  discussed  at  length  the  question  of  the  possibility  of  a  general  agree- 
ment of  some  kind  among  military  manufacturers,  and  we  both  thought  that 
while  such  an  agreement  might  be  possible  as  far  as  the  manufacturers  them- 
selves were  concerned,  that  due  to  the  political  situation  in  Europe  today  and 
due  to  the  general  attitude  towards  arms  manufacturers,  any  attempt  to 
make  a  formal  agreement  among  manufacturers  would  cause  the  loudest  and 
most  violent  criticism  and  put  us  in  a  very  disagreeable  position. 

Does  not  that  sound  like  a  military  thing? 

Mr.  Bradway.  This  is  military. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  is  not  clear  what  they  are  talking  about 
in  the  earlier  letter.  I  think  it  may  be  a  fair  inference  they  were 
talking  about  military  powders. 

Mr.  Bradway.  I  think  it  is  true  in  this  case  that  they  were,  but 
this  is  not  the  conference  which  came  out  of  this  conversation,  I  am 
quite  sure. 

Senator  Clark.  If  I  might  interrupt  a  moment  to  go  back  to  the 
matter  we  were  discussing  a  while  ago,  Mr.  du  Pont,  I  have  sent 
out  and  got  the  proofs  of  the  testimony  of  September,  and  while  it 
is  of  no  great  importance,  just  for  the  purpose  of  clearing  up  what 
you  did  testify  to  at  that  time,  I  want  to  call  your  attention  to  the 
fact  that  the  draft  of  the  contract  taken  from  your  files  was  marked 
"  unsigned."  In  fact,  it  was  a  gentleman's  agreement,  and  it  was  in 
that  condition  found  in  your  files. 

You  testified :  ^ 

That  is  an  agreement  between  the  German  companies  and  ourselves,  which 
is  very  similar  to  the  agreement  between  I.C.I,  and  Du  Pont,  in  that  it  providea 


1  Hearings,  Part  V,  pp.  1203  and  1204. 


2806  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

that  each  of  tlie  parties  uiay  acquire  ivoni  the  otlier  an  option  to  purchase 
valuable  rights  to  processes.  The  agreement  with  I.CJ.,  in  this  resqject.  is  in 
effect,  in  that  it  lias  been  duly  executed  by  both  parties.  Tliis  agreement  with 
the  German  company  was  drafted  along  the  same  general  line^'  and  was  in- 
formally agreed  to  but  was  not  executed.  It,  therefore,  is-  not  in  effect,  I  believe- 
legally,  but  we  have  notified  the  Germans,  I  think  informally,  tliut  we  were 
satisfied  to  be  bound  by  it ;  that  is,  we  would  agree  to  the  agreement  verbally, 
informally,   but   we   have  not  executed   it. 

Senator  Clark.  In  other  words,  that  notice  on  this  contract,  as  we  found 
it  in  your  files,  unsigned,  "in  effect  as  gentleman's  agreement ",'  is  literally 
accurate.  The  contract  has  not  formally  been  completed  by  signature,  but 
that  it  is  in  effect  pi'actically,  as  a  gentleman's  agreement  between  the  two 
companies. 

Mr.  liAMMOT  Du  Pont.  If  you  mean  by  a  gentlemnn's  agreement 

Senator  Clark.  I  am  asking  what  you  meant  by  this  notation.  It  is  not  my 
notation  Itui  a  notation  by  somebody  in  connection  with  your  compauj, 

Mr.  L.\:Mir()T  ))u  Pont.  I  know  what  my  interpretation  of  a  "  gentleman's 
agreement  "  is.  but  I  do  not  know  what  yours  is. 

Senator   Ci^\rk.  I   am   asking  you   yours. 

]Mr.  La-aimot  du  Pont.  My  interpretation? 

Senator  Claek.  Yes. 

jMr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  My  interpretation  of  a  "gentleman's  agreement"  is 
one  which  is  not  executed  but  which  the  parties  have  considered. 

Senator   Clark.  And    are    proceeding   under? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes;  but  I  think  also.  Senator,  the  term  "gentleman's 
agi-eemeat  "  applies  to  the  ability  of  either  parties  to  get  out  of  it. 

Senator  Clark.  The  point  I  am  making  is  that  you  have  had  these  negotia- 
tions and  are  actually  proceeding  under  that  agreement  at  the  present  time, 
are  you  not? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Unless  there  is  further  comment  on  that,  I 
would  like  to  pass  to  another  subject,  and  offer  for  the  record  a  re- 
port from  Walter  Dannenbaum  to  Mr.  Jasper  E.  Crane,  dated  Sep- 
tember 16,  1929,  entitled  "Cooperation  with  Royal  Dntch  Shell." 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1091  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2881.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  call  attention  to  page  3,  the  third  paragraph, 
which  reads : 

R.D.S.  have  the  example  of  the  Standard  Oil  Co.  of  New  Jersey  before 
them ;  i.e.,  the  alliance  of  the  Standard  Oil  Co.  of  New  Jersey  with  the  I.G. 
R.D.S.  realize  that  the  supply  of  crude  oil,  be  it  suflBcient  for  5  years  or 
for  50  years,  is  not  unlimited,  and  that  1  day,  hov.ever  far  in  the  future,  the 
products  now  derived  from  crude  oil  must  be  made  by  another  method.  In 
View  of  the  R.D.S.  investment  in  the  oil  business,  it  seems  logical  and  fore- 
sighted  that  R.D.S.  should  prepare  themselves  for  the  day  when  petroleum 
products  are  made  by  other  metliods  than  the  refining  of  crude  oil. 

Mr.  Swint  or  Mr.  du  Pont,  can  you  explain  to  us  just  what  this 
relation  between  Standard  Oil  and  I.G.  is  in  regard  to  getting  oil 
out  of  coal  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  ou  Pont.  I  think  probably  I  can  answer  that.  I 
happened  to  be  in  Heidelberg  when  some  of  the  Standard  Oil  men 
were  there,  and  I  understood  they  were  interested  in  the  Burgess 
process,  by  which  they  hydrogenated  coal  and  produced  petroleum 
products  from  it.  They  admitted  at  that  time,  I  think,  that  it  was 
a  very  costly  way  of  getting  gasoline  and  other  petroleum  products, 
but  that  it  might  have  some  future  value. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  have  a  somewhat  different  understanding. 
What  the  Standard  Oil  of  New  Jersey  and  I.G.  agreed  upon  was 
the  hydrogen  a  tion  of  petroleum,  and  they  formed  a  company  to  ex- 
ploit that  field. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2807 

Mr.  Raushenbdsh.  Only  of  petroleum.  Is  that  your  understand- 
ing? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  think  they  had  that  plan,  but  I  had  been 
under  the  impression  they  proposed  to  hydrogenate  coal  in  Germany, 
where  coal  is  plentiful  and  oil  is  not.     This  is  only  hearsay. 

Mr,  Lammot  du  Pont.  My  information  is  only  hearsay  and  it  is 
not  surprising  that  we  disagree. 

Mr.  Rausiienbush.  Can  you  add  anything  to  that,  Mr.  Swint? 

Mr.  Swint.  I  think  that  about  explains  it.  The  I.G.  and  the 
Standard  Oil  did  fonn  a  company  in  the  United  States  to  exploit 
certain  patents. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Is  that  the  one  which  is  referred  to  as  the 
American  I.G.? 

Mr.  Swint.  No.    Standard  I.G.    American  I.G.  is  something  else. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Is  it  true  that  the  other  big  chemical  groups, 
such  as  I.C.I,  and  du  Pont  have  not  been  able  to  share  that  arrange- 
ment with  those  two  companies?  They  have  not  been  able  to  buy 
into  that  arrangement  between  the  Standard  Oil  and  I.G.  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  We  are  not  in  the  oil  business  at  all.  It  is 
nothing  we  would  be  interested  in. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  I.G.  seems  to  be  in  it,  does  it  not? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  am  speaking  of  the  Burgess  process.  I 
thought  that  was  what  you  were  speaking  of. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  I.G.  seems  to  be  in  the  chemical  business 
to  the  extent  they  got  into  the  oil  business. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  think  they  had  run  across  the  hydrogena- 
tion  process  and  applied  it  to  the  coal  business,  which  does  not  in- 
terest us  particularly. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Coming  back  to  the  question,  have  either  the 
I.  C.  I.  or  du  Ponts  been  able  to  buy  into  that  process  at  all  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Not  so  far  as  I  know.  Certainly  not  speak- 
ing for  the  du  Pont  Co.     I  do  not  know  anything  about  I.  C.  I. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  reason  here  given  for  the  Royal  Dutch 
Shell's  interest  is  that  petroleum  is  going  to  be  scarce  sometime  in 
5  to  50  years. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  What  is  the  date? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  September  16,  1929.  And  they  wanted  to 
take  a  position  on  what  was  happening  there,  for  this  reason :  That 
very  soon  after,  in  fact,  about  the  time  that  we  saw  this  letter,  the 
New  York  Times  was  playing  up  the  United  States  and  British  in- 
terest in  Manchukuo  oil,  and  it  seemed  that  that  matter  of  oil  might 
have  some  connection  with  causes  for  later  wars. 

In  the  same  year,  1929,  there  is  another  letter  on  this  subject, 
which  I  offer  as  an  exhibit,  being  a  letter  from  Dannenbaum  to 
Crane,  dated  July  25,  1929. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1092  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2884.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  There  is  discussion  of  the  Royal  Dutch  Shell 
getting  into  the  chemical  industry.  I  will  read  the  last  paragraph 
on  the  fourth  page  [reading]  : 

Just  where  this  matter  stands  it  is  difficult  to  say.  The  R.D.S.  apparently 
wish  to  get  into  the  chemical  industry.  Originally  the  ammonia  plant  was 
intended  as  a  club  against  the  I.G.     I.G.  apparently  made  the  mistake  of  tell- 


2808  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

ing  the  oil  industry  generally  and  the  R.D.S.  specifically  that  in  due  time  the 
I.G.  would  make  all  of  the  oil  the  world  required  by  synthetic  methods. 
Whether  the  I.G.  said  this  or  not,  that  was  the  R.D.S.  impression  of  the  I.G.'s 
intentions.  It  seems  evident  that  the  R.D.S.  no  longer  think  an  ammonia 
plant  in  California  would  be  a  good  club  insofar  as  the  I.G.  are  concerned,  but 
perhaps  they  think  it  a  good  club  to  obtain  an  association  primarily  with  I.C.I, 
and  perhaps  secondarily  with  du  Pont.  The  R.D.S.  is  determined  to  get  in  the 
chemical  business. 

Did  the  Royal  Dutch  Shell  put  up  any  plant  in  California  as  a 
result  of  these  discussions  or  interest?     Can  you  inform  us ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  they  have  properties  in  Califor- 
nia; yes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  do  not  mean  only  oil  properties,  but  other 
chemical  properties. 

Mr.  SwiNT.  I  do  not  know.    I  think  they  have. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know  for  sure. 

Mr.  SwiNT.  Nothing  ever  came  of  these  discussions. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Nothing  ever  came  of  these  discussions.  They 
simply  show  the  interest  of  the  Royal  Dutch  Shell  in  preparing  it- 
self because  of  this  other  arrangement. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  does  not  do  that,  Mr.  Secretary.  It  is 
a  matter  of  opinion. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  They  show  the  interest.  We  would  have  to 
read  the  whole  letter  to  get  the  tone  of  this. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  is  all  a  matter  of  opinion  of  the  writer 
of  the  letter,  I  think. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  They  are  some  of  your  more  important  oflB- 
cials,  Mr.  du  Pont. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Their  opinions  may  be  wrong,  also. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  want  to  offer  for  the  record  as  an  exhibit  a 
letter  from  Mr.  Ewing  to  Mr.  Swint,  dated  July  17,  1933,  and  deal- 
ing again  with  this  matter  of  oil. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1093  "  and  is  in- 
cluded in  the  appendix  on  p.  2887.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  read  the  third  paragraph  on  the  second  page 
[reading]  : 

Dr.  Bosch  then  told  us  of  the  I.G.  Farbenindustrie  plans  for  oil  from  coal. 
Up  to  the  present,  they  have  been  manufacturing  50,000  tons  per  annum  of 
gasoline  from  tar.  Now  they  have  succeeded  in  manufacturing  gasoline  direct 
from  brown  coal  and  are  at  present  operating  at  the  rate  of  80,000  tons  per  year 
from  tar  and  20,000  tons  from  brown  coal.  Plans  are  under  way  to  increase 
the  production  fourfold,  thus  producing  400,000  tons  of  gasoline  per  year.  We 
understand  that  all  of  the  increase  will  be  manufactured  from  brown  coal,  and 
production  therefore  will  be  divided  80,000  tons  per  year  from  tar  and  320,000 
tons  per  year  from  brown  coal. 

It  goes  on  to  decribe  their  plans. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  That  is  all  in  Germany,  I  take  it? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  is  all  in  Germany,  according  to  this 
letter. 

Now,  coming  back,  for  a  minute,  to  the  political  importance  of 
some  of  these  countries,  I  want  to  call  your  attention  to  the  last 
paragraph  on  the  first  page  and  the  paragraph  on  the  sixth  page 
[reading]  : 

Mr.  Crane  explained  that  he  was  on  a  trip  to  Europe  to  renew  old  friendships, 
this  l)eing  the  first  trip  to  Germany  in  6  years.  There  followed  a  general  dis- 
cussion of  the  economic  situations  in  Germany  and  in  the  United  States,  and 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2809 

Professor  Bosch  confirmed  our  opinion  that  times  in  Germany  at  present  are 
very  difficult,  and  for  industry  the  last  few  weeks  have  been  especially  difficult. 
Whereas  the  revolution  of  1918  consisted  of  the  middle  and  upper  classes 
against  the  lower,  the  present  revolution  consists  of  the  lower  and  middle 
classes  against  the  upper  class  and  industry.  Just  now  it  is  a  question  of 
fascism  and  bolshevism,  and  industry  nmst  support  the  present  government  to 
prevent  further  chaos.  In  the  beginning,  Hitler  did  not  consult  industrial 
leaders,  but  in  recent  weeks  he  has  shown  his  stability  by  curbing  the  more 
extreme  element  of  the  party  and  bringing  the  industrial  leaders  into  consul- 
tation with  him.  Dr.  Bosch  has  been  in  Berlin  in  direct  contact  with  the 
Government,  and  in  fact  spends  practically  all  of  his  time  between  his  dwelling 
in  Heidelberg  and  the  Government  offices  in  Berlin,  thus  leaving  little,  if  any, 
time  for  the  affairs  of  the  I.G.  Farbenindustrie. 

Then  because  the  question  of  governmental  interest  in  these  indus- 
tries has  come  up,  I  want  to  read  the  paragraph  on  page  6  entitled 
"  Meeting  with  I.G.  Farbenindustrie  July  12  "  [reading]  : 

At  10  o'clock  we  called  at  the  main  office  of  I.G.  Farbenindustrie  and  spent 
some  time  with  Dr.  von  Schnitzler  and  Dr.  ter  Meer,  and  were  later  joined  at 
luncheon  by  Mr.  Weber-Andreae.  Mr.  Crane  related  the  trend  of  the  develop- 
ments in  the  United  States  and  emphasized  the  fact  that  a  strong  feeling  of 
nationalism  pervades  our  country  today.  The  German  gentlemen  discussed  the 
political  situation  in  Germany,  with  particular  reference  to  the  positive  position 
of  the  Government  against  the  Jews.  They  also  explained  how  Herr  Kmpp 
had  developed  a  scheme  whereby  industry  could  contribute  to  the  party  organi- 
zation funds,  and  in  fact  every  industry  is  called  upon  to  pay  "  li/4  percent  of 
the  annual  wage  and  salary  roll  to  the  Nazi  organization." 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  One-half  percent,  it  is. 
Mr.  Raushenbush  (rereading)  : 

And  in  fact  every  industry  is  called  upon  to  pay  one-half  percent  of  the 
annual  wage  and  salary  roll  to  the  Nazi  organization.  For  the  I.  G.  Farben- 
industrie, the  annual  amount  is  about  Rm.  1,000,000,  which  would  indicate 
a  combined  annual  wage  and  salary  payment  of  the  I.  G.  Farbenindustrie  of 
Rm.  200,000,000,  or  $50,000,000  at  par.  Later  it  was  learned  that  the  employees 
of  I.  G.  total  68,000,  exclusive  of  mine  workers  and  those  in  affiliated  companies. 

Now,  would  not  somebody,  seeing  the  extent  of  that  contribution, 
come  to  the  opinion  that  this  industry  was  very  close  to  the  German 
Government  and  had  a  very  considerable  influence  with  the  current 
administration  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  would  not  gather  that. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  is  a  $50,000,00  a  year  contribution. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  No. 

Mr.  SwiNT.  $50,000,000  a  year  wage  and  salary  roll. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  What  is  it? 

Mr.  SwiNT.  About  $250,000  a  year. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  contribution  would  be  1,000,000  reichs- 
marks.     Is  that  it? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Right,  Mr.  Secretary;  the  thing  which 
struck  me  here,  is  it  says,  "  *  *  *  and  in  fact  every  industry  is 
called  upon  to  pay  one-half  percent  of  the  annual  wage  and  salary- 
roll  to  the  Nazi  organization."     It  is  not  a  voluntary  contribution. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  This  ties  in  with  the  former  report  which  you 
characterized  as  gossip,  about  the  interest  of  Dr.  Schmitz  in  the 
Hitler  group,  back  in  1932,  I  believe,  and  now  the  direct  contact  of 
Dr.  Bosch,  one  of  the  heads  of  the  company  described  in  this  letter, 
and  then  this  scheme  which  is  here  attributed  to  Herr  Krupp — is 
that  the  armament  man,  supposedly? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  suppose  so.     I  do  not  know. 

83876— 35— PT  12 12 


2810  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  developed  a  scheme  whereby  industry  would 
contribute  to  the  party  organization. 

Senator  Pope.  What  is  the  date  of  the  letter? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  This  is  July  17,  1933.  I  am  almost  through 
with  these  exhibits,  Mr.  Chairman,  but  I  want  to  enter  them. 

I  offer  an  exhibit,  being  a  letter  of  November  18,  1929,  from  Jenney 
to  Ta^dor,  referring  to  the  interest  of  the  artillery  department  of 
the  Royal  Swedish  Army  in  process  for  the  manufacture  of  oxida- 
tion of  ammonia  to  nitric  acid.  If  there  is  no  comment,  I  will  just 
rush  through  these. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1094  "  and  is 
mcluded  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2890.) 

Mr.  SwiNT.  It  did  not  happen. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  did  not  take  place,  but  the  Swedish  Army 
was  interested  in  the  process  for  the  manufacture  of  oxidation  of 
ammonia  to  nitric  acid. 

I  offer  a  letter  from  Jenney  to  Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont,  dated 
October  19,  1928. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1095  "  and  is 
mcluded  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2890.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  There  is  one  paragraph  toward  the  end  speak- 
ing of  the  big  French  dye  company,  Kuhlmann  [reading]  : 

As  you  also  know,  the  outstanding  point  about  tlieir  relations  with  other 
companies  is  the  Kuhlmann-I.  G.  agi'eement  of  dyestuffs.  There  have  also 
been  numerous  inimors  that  this  agreement  will  be  extended  into  the.  nitrogen 
field,  and  we  have  also  heard  that  the  I.  G.  has  aided  them  in  the  production 
^f  mixed  fertilizers   (nitrophoska). 

I  also  offer  for  the  record  a  letter  from  Henry  E.  Ford  from 
London  to  Mr.  Wardenburg,  in  Wilmington,  headed  "  Nitrogen." 

The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exliibit  No.  1096  "  and  is  in- 
cluded in  the  appendix  on  p.  2891.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  In  the  first  paragraph  it  states : 

We  had  further  conversation  with  INIr.  Speyer  of  I.  C.  I.  and  obtained 
some  additional  information  on  the  recent  nitrogen  conference.  The  Brussels 
conference  finally  broke  down  due  to  the  attitude  of  the  French.  The  Germans 
were  not  able  to  agree  to  the  economic  and  political  demands  made,  and  the 
breach  is  so  wide  that  there  is  very  little  chance  of  further  conferences,  at  least 
for  6  or  9  months. 

Can  you  t^ll  us  how  the  French  nitrogen  producers  would  be  mak- 
ing political  demands  on  the  Germans  ?  I  can  understand  economic 
demands,  but  how  do  they  make  political  demands  on  the  Germans  ? 
Can  anybody  throw  any  light  on  that  at  all? 

Mr.  Swint.  We  know  nothing  about  the  relations  between  the 
French  and  German  nitrogen  people. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  This  was  fertilizer,  was  it  not? 

Mr.  Swint.  Yes. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Fertilizer  nitrogen. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  heading  of  the  letter  is  entitled 
"  Nitrogen." 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  The  discussions  were  on  fertilizer. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  was  the  international  nitrogen  confer- 
ence ;  a  cartel  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2811 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  offer  for  the  record  a  cable  from  Clemenceau 
president,  Societe  Central  de  Dynamite,  dated  June  6,  1930. 

(The  cable  referred  to  was  marked  ''Exhibit  No.  1097"  and  ap- 
pears in  full  in  the  text.) 

Mr,  Raushenbush.  That  reads  : 

You  know  we  luive  'oeen  exploiting  ilu.ssia  with  a  profit  for  many  years  by 
concession  to  nianuFncture  all  materials  piastic  and  nitrocellulose  derivatives, 
such  as  celluloid  film,  pliotograj;hic  paper,  etc. 

At  present,  after  new  convention,  Russian  Goverment  buying  by  concession 
from  us.  Our  role  in  future  will  be  limited  ()iy)  (to)  comi'lete  remunt^rating 
technical  cooperatioi. 

If  this  is  the  case  Russian  Government  asked  us  *^^o  extend  this  coopei"ation 
to  all  branches  (of)  which  are  objecting  to  activitiet,  of  our  branches;  namely, 
explosives,  glycerine,  nitrocellulose,  and  particularly  cellulose  varnishes. 

Before  giving  answer  on  general  principles  on  the  point  would  appreciate 
you  caltle  us  at  once  if  you  agree  on  tlie  princnple  S.  F.  D.  cooperate  like  our 
dtiier  branch  organizations  of  an  industry  of  the  same  kind  in  liussia. 

AVe  know,  lacking  our  cooperation  in  the  respect,  Soviet  Go%ei'nment  would 
not  hesitate  to  deal  with  other  French  manufacturers  cellulose  varnishes. 

Of  course  this  cooperation  will  involve  cashing  in  and  aniuial  remuneratioi> 
to  be  set. 

For  the  moment,  we  ask  you  only  the  question  of  principle  which  if  accepted 
by  you  would  leave  us  entirely  at  liberty  to  decide  in  common  with  that 
condition. 

The  question  I  wanted  to  ask  about  that  was  in  regard  to  the 
explosives,  glycerine,  nitrocellulose,  and  ])articularly  cellulose  var- 
nishes. Those  are,  I  take  it,  all  commercial  explosives  or  materials 
for  commercial  explosives  ? 

Mr.  SwiNT.  I  believe  so. 

I^Ir.  Raushenbush.  That  is  right? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  that  is  correct. 

Mr.  SwiNT.  This  firm,  Societe  Central  de  Dynamite,  happens  to 
be  a  company  that  holds  the  stock  in  the  French  Duco  Co.,  in  which 
we  are  partners,  but  we  have  no  other  partnership  relations  or  any 
other  agreements  of  any  sort  with  them.  And  this  proposal  was 
not  carried  out. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Do  you  own  this  company? 

Mr.  Swint.  No. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  But  they  hold  your 

Mr.  Swint.  No;  we  have  a  minority  interest  in  the  French  Duco. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Which  is  the  S.F.D. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  In  this  letter  Clemenceau  seems  to  be  asking 
you  for  permission  to  deal  with  Russia. 

^Ir.  Swint.  No,  Mr.  Raushenbush;  he  simply  expresses  his  intent 
to  deal  with  the  Russians  on  these  various  other  products,  explosives, 
glycerin,  and  nitrocellulose,  and  he  has  to  ask  our  permission  to  deal 
with  the  Russians  on  cellulose  varnishes,  as  he  calls  it,  because  we 
liave  granted  him  rights  to  use  our  patents  on  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  offer  for  the  record  a  memorandum  dated 
January  23,  1934,  from  Jenney  to  Pickard,  entitled  "  Russia,  Pos- 
sible Sale  of  Nitrogen  Information.''  On  the  second  page  there  is 
this  sentence  [reading]  : 

On  March  19,  1931,  the  executive  committee  informed  the  development 
department  that  the  methanol  process  should  not  be  sold  to  Amtorg. 

Was  that  all  a  military  process? 

Mr.  SwiNT.  No ;  methanol  is  wood  alcohol. 


2812  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  is,  they  just  decided  not  to  sell  it  to  the 
Russians.  Was  that  a  matter  of  policy  or  was  that  a  matter  of 
price  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  cannot  remember  now. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  1098",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2892.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  seems,  if  you  will  read  the  rest  of  the 
letter,  that  there  are  certain  policy  decisions  being  taken  here  to 
not  do  certain  things  in  connection  w^ith  the  Russians.  It  goes  on 
on  the  third  page : 

Mr.  Pickard  informed  the  I.  G.  that  we  had  refused  to  sell  the  Russians 
information  on  methanol,  and  this  was  acknowledged  with  thanks,  by  Dr. 
Gaus. 

That  is  the  third  paragraph  of  the  third  page. 

Are  you  under  any  obligations  to  I.G.  not  to  sell  certain  things 
to  the  Russians  or  to  any  other  governments? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  not. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Did  the  I.G.  sell  them  that  particular  infor- 
mation on  methanol? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Not  that  I  know  of.  I  do  not  think  they 
had  the  same  information  we  had. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  paragraph  above  that  is : 

I  am  not  able  to  locate  the  information  in  our  files,  but  it  is  my  recollec- 
tion that  Dr.  Bosch  informed  Mr.  Pickard  or  some  other  official  of  the  company 
some  years  ago  that  the  Russians  had  used  an  offer  received  from  us  to  force 
the  I.G.'s  hand  at  the  time  they  made  a  deal  on  dyestuffs  with  the  Russians 
in  about  1926. 

Here  is  a  question  raised  in  an  exhibit  which  I  wish  to  enter. 
July  19,  1932,  letter  from  Mr.  E^ving  to  Wardenburg.    May  I 
call  your  attenton  to  the  last  paragraph  on  the  first  page  [reading]  : 

Quite  apart  from  the  C.I.A.  agreement,  the  D.E.N,  group  have  bought  off 
completely  Ressaix  Laval,  which  is  the  Belgian  plant  under  construction  and 
which  will  not  be  completed,  and  have  also  paid  to  the  Schluskill  owners  au 
amount  for  closing  down  a  fair  portion  of  the  Schluskill  plant. 

Does  anybody  remember  what  that  dealt  with? 

Mr.  Swint.  Yes;  that  dealt  with  fertilizer  ammonia.  C.I.A.  is 
the  International  Conference  of  Azote,,  and  D.E.N,  is  the  German- 
English-Norwegian  group.  They  made  certain  arrangements  to  fa- 
cilitate sales  of  fertilizer  ammonia,  with  which  we  were  not  at  all 
concerned. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1099  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2894.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Could  one  draw  a  fair  inference  from  this  that 
this  process  of  the  C.I.A.,  which  is  sort  of  the  International  League 
of  Nations  of  the  nitrogen  group,  is  it  not  ? 

Mr.  SwiNT.  It  does  not  include  any  American  groups. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  We  are  not  in  the  League  of  Nations,  either, 
Mr.  Swint.  That  League  of  Nations  in  turn  has  a  sort  of  a  subordi- 
nate group,  the  D.E.N. ,  the  German-English-Norwegian  group, 
which  are  an  operating  unit  by  themselves. 

Coming  back,  to  the  extent  that  this  problem  of  nitrogen  has  any- 
thing at  all  to  do  with  war  preparations,  even  in  the  remotest  sense, 
the  commercial  transactions  by  which  certain  Belgian  plants  are 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2813 

bought  off  and  closed  down  would  have  to  that  extent  some  influence 
on  the  military  preparedness  of  Belgium,  would  it  not? 

Mr.  SwiNT.  It  is  concerned  entirely  with  ammonium  sulphate. 
That  is  the  only  thing  that  plant  makes. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Both  of  them,  the  Ressaix  Laval  and  Schlus- 
kill. 

Mr.  SwiNT.  Schluskill.     I  never  heard  of  the  other  one  before. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  This  is  the  big  new  plant  they  were  building, 
Ressaix  Laval.  It  was  half  built  when  they  closed  down.  That 
would  have  some  influence,  to  that  extent,  I  take  it. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  do  not  think  it  would  have  any  influence 
on  military  plans;  no,  sir. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  If  nitrogen  is  at  all  influential  in  any  war 
preparations,  the  commercial  transactions  by  which  one  country's 
plant  is  closed  down  in  favor  of  an  international  convention  would 
to  that  extent,  it  seems  to  me,  very  clearly  influence  that  country's 
strength. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  it  would  depend  on  how  many 
other  plants  they  had. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Yes,  it  would ;  but  the  Belgians  were  not  the 
outstanding  people  in  that  production,  were  they'^ 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Oh,  I  think  there  were  plenty  of  other 
plants.     Is  not  that  right? 

Mr.  SwiNT.  Yes;  there  were  several  plants.  They  had  a  great 
superfluity  of  plants. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  That  was  the  trouble. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  want  now  to  ask  just  a  few  more  questions 
about  the  relationships  between  I.  C.  I.  and  I.  G.,  and  offer  for  the 
record  a  letter  dated  May  10.  1933,  from  Harry  McGowan  to  you, 
Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1100  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2895.) 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  In  this  he  speaks  of  something  that  may  be  of 
some  importance  to  the  world  because  of  this  oil  question  that  we 
have  discussed  before.     The  letter  reads : 

My  dear  Lam:m:ot:  As  a  result  of  our  agreement  with  the  International 
Hydrogenation  Patents  Co,  and  our  cooperation  with  the  I.  G.  to  put  forward 
a  joint  scheme  for  a  nitrogen  plant  in  China,  we  find  ourselves  in  rather  a 
curious  position  vis-a-vis  the  I.  G.,  and  I  would  like  to  ask  you  if  you  woul(? 
consider  if  we  cannot  simplify  this. 

As  you  know,  the  hydrogenation  agreement  requires  the  I.G.  and  ourselves 
to  pass  to  I.H.P.  our  information  on  the  manufacture  of  hydrogen.  This 
knowledge  is  available  to  licensees  of  I.H.P.  for  the  strictly  limited  field  of 
hydrogenation  of  coal  and  oil. 

The  question  I  wanted  to  ask  about  that  was,  does  not  that  indi- 
cate that  the  I.C.I,  is  in  on  this  combination  that  the  I.G.  and 
Standard  Oil  have  for  this  hydrogenation  of  coal  ? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  states  that  the  hydrogenation  agreement 
requires  the  I.  G.  and  I.  C.  I.  to  pass  to  I.  H.  P.  information  on  the 
manufacture  of  hydrogen.  I  would  infer  from  that  that  I.C.I,  must 
be  a  party  to  that  agreement. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I.C.I.  must  be  a  party  to  it. 

Outside  the  Standard  Oil,  is  there  any  American  company  that 
is  in  any  similar  sense  a  party  to  this  three-cornered  agreement  on 
i;his  hydrogenation  of  coal  ? 


2814  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  not,  but  I.H.P.  licenses  a  number 
of  oil  companies,  if  Taj  recollection  is  correct. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  A  number  of  American  oil  companies? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Rausheneush.  Can  you  tell  us  anj^thing  further  about  that  at 
all? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  It  is  all  in  the  oil  business. 

Mr.  Rai  siiENBUSH.  It  seems  that  I.C.I,  has  gone  into  the  oil 
business,  and  that  is  a  chemical  company,  and  I.G.  has  gone  in,  and 
that  is  a  chemical  company. 

Mr.  Lamjiot  du  Pont,  They  may  be  in  the  oil  business,  or  think 
that  they  are,  but  we  are  not  in  the  oil  business  and  we  have  no 
connection  with  this  I.H.P. ,  either  as  licensees  or  otherwise. 

Mr.  SwiNT.  I.C.I,  are  in  the  oil  business  They  have  a  plant  for 
the  hjah'ogenation  of  coal  to  produce  gasoline. 

Mr.  Rai'shenbt'Sh.  That  is  the  point  I  was  making.  Our  chemi- 
cal companies  seem  to  be  picking  on  this  field  as  a  possible  source 
of  future  growth. 

Mr.  SwiNT.  Some  of  the  chemical  companies  do.     We  avoided  it. 

The  Chairman.  A  very  large  study  has  been  given  to  that. 

Mr.  SwTNT.  A  great  deal  of  study,  because  it  is  quite  an  important 
matter  to  England,  having  no  oil. 

The  Chairman.  Is  it  not  becoming  important  to  us  here? 

Mr.  SwiNT.  Perhaps  in  50  years  or  500  ^ears,  we  do  not  know  how 
long. 

The  Chairman.  Some  estimate  it  far  less  than  that. 

Ml-.  Raushenbush.  There  is  evidence  in,  Mr.  Chairman,  that  one 
of  the  officials  considered  the  Royal  Dutch  Shell  moves  actuated  by 
a  realization  that  it  would  be  somewhere  between  5  and  50  years 
when  we  would  have  to  tackle  another  source  of  supplv  entirely  on 
oil. 

Mr.  Chairman,  I  V\-ould  like  to  offer  as  committee  exhibits  two 
charts  that  v.ere  prepared,  one  showing  as  far  as  we  could  get  from 
the  records  and  letters  of  the  company  what  seemed  to  be  the  inter- 
national connections  of  some  of  the  explosives  and  chemical  com- 
panies. That  chart  is  doubtless  incomplete.  Probably  a  great  many 
other  lines  should  be  added  to  it  that  we  do  not  have.  They  seem  to 
show  a  considerable  number  of  lines  from  German,  French,  Italian, 
and  American  companies  into  other  countries.  It  is  simply  a  factual 
statement  as  far  as  we  can  determine  it  from  correspondence.  We 
have  entered  to  some  extent  and  still  have  available  from  the  com- 
panies, evidence  of  the  existence  of  these  business  relations  which 
run  across  national  ) boundaries.  The  charts  themselves  are,  as  I 
said,  fairly  factual. 

As  far  as  I  can  detei-mine,  there  is  no  statement  in  them  that  the 
business  relationships  of  the  British  company,  let  us  say,  in  the 
Balkans,  had  or  did  not  have  any  influence  on  the  political  actions  of 
their  country. 

May  I  ask  that  the  chemical  cliart  be  shown  for  a  moment? 

Mr.  Chairman,  this  chaiT  is  entitled  "  International  Relations  in 
Chemicals  ",  and  is  offered  subject  to  the  reservations  I  made  before, 
as  a  committee  exhibit.  The  continuous  line  sliows  financial  arrange- 
ments for  sales  and/or  part  ownership  or  agreements  or  relations  on 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2815 

prices  and  territor3^  The  dotted  line  shows  the  interchange  or  sale 
of  chemical  or  other  patent  information. 

Over  here  in  this  conntry,  following  the  geographical  map,  w^e 
have  Canada,  the  United  States,  lines  leading  down  to  South  Amer- 
ica and  Mexico.  This  is  England  with  the  I.C.I,  here.  This  is  Ger- 
many with  its  various  companies,  the  I.G.  with  specific  attention  to 
the  D.A.G.  and  to  Montecatini,  the  Italian  company.  These  various 
lines  lead  out  into  the  Balkan  countries,  largely  from  the  British 
companies.  Here  are  the  French.  We  have  authorities  for  those 
lines  from  these  documents,  and  I  would  like  to  offer  for  the  record 
the  numbers  of  each  of  these  lines,  showing  the  companies  from, 
which  and  to  which  they  go,  together  with  the  source  of  informa- 
tion, from  which  files  they  were  taken;  and  also,  with  the  permission 
of  the  Chairman,  the  opportunity  of  quoting  in  addition  to  what 
has  been  prepared  here  the  statements  from  each  letter  which  have 
so  far  been  left  out,  show^ing  exactly  what  there  was  in  that  letter 
that  made  us  go  on  that  information. 

The  Chairman.  Let  the  exhibits  be  received,  then,  for  the  record.. 

(The  documents  containing  sources  of  information  referred  to 
were  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1101  ",  and  are  included  in  the  appendix, 
on  p.  2896.) 

(The  charts  referred  to  were  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1102  "',  and 
"Exhibit  No.  1103",  and  are  included  in  the  appendix  facing  pp. 
2896  and  2902.) 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Mr.  Chairman,  may  I  make  a  statement  re- 
garding that  chart? 

The  Chairman.  Yes. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  We  have  not  had  a  chance  to  examine  that 
chart,  and  we  have  no  idea  what  the  markings  on  it  refer  to,  except 
as  described  by  the  Secretary. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  I  think  that  is  a  very  fair  statement. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont,  And  we  do  not  either  agree  with  what  it 
show^s  or  disagree  with  what  it  shows,  because  we  have  not  examined^ 
it. 

The  Chairman.  I  should  like  to  say  at  one  and  the  same  time  for 
the  record  that  those  who  prepared  the  chart  were  under  very 
stringent  urge  by  the  committee  to  be  exceedingly  cautious  and  care- 
ful in  building  this  chart,  to  see  that  it  was  builded  upon  what  ap- 
peared to  be  the  most  substantial  kind  of  information. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Mr.  Chairman,  you  will  remember  that  an 
exhibit  that  you  presented  to  us  at  an  earlier  hearing  was  found  to 
be  entirely  incorrect. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Which  one  was  that? 

The  Chairman,  You  mean  the  one  relating  to  the  investments  of 
the  du  Ponts? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir. 

The  Chairman,  Why  was  that  found  to  be  wholly  inaccurate  ? 

Mr,  Lammot  du  Pont.  The  columns  were  added  up,  and  they  were- 
not  added  correctly. 

The  Chairman.  But  it  was  just  a  matter  of  additions? 

Mr,  Raushenbush,  Mr,  Chairman,  let  us  recall  that  matter.  The 
columns  apparently  did  add  up  incorrectly,  and  I  sent  it  out  to  be 
added  up  again,  and  the  results  were  the  same. 

The  Chairman.  The  record  has  been  corrected  to  that  extent. 


2816  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  first  reports  were  apparently  as  good  fig- 
uring as  could  be  done.  We  had  some  conversation  with  the  company 
officials  about  it.  I  do  not  remember  it  too  clearly,  but  the  point  they 
made  was  that  we  had  no  business  adding  the  columns  at  all.  What- 
ever comments  were  made  by  your  officers  when  the  report  went  into 
the  record  were  all  noted.  I  do  not  accept  the  comment  that  that 
chart  was  incorrect. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  did  not  wish  to  refer  to  the  statement. 

The  Chairman.  But  Mr.  du  Pont,  that  raises  a  question : 

It  seems  to  me  that  at  the  time  we  were  having  the  controversy 
over  that  matter,  a  suggestion  was  made  that  you  furnish,  when  it 
could  be  furnished,  your  own  detail  of  the  capital  that  was  resorted 
to  in  possessing  yourselves  of  the  properties  that  did  come  into  your 
possession  during  and  after  the  war.^ 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  we  sent  you  that  statement. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Yes.    That  has  been  set  up. 

The  Chairman.  That  has  been  received  ?  The  Chair  has  not  seen 
it  yet.    Has  it  been  offered  for  the  record  ? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  was  printed  right  away  without  anything 
further,  and  it  is  being  set  up  as  part  of  the  book.^ 

The  Chairman.  It  has  been  made  part  of  the  record,  then. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  The  only  point  I  wish  to  make  at  this  time 
was  that  we  had  not  examined  this  chart. 

The  Chairman.  I  think  you  made  that  clear. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  We  neither  assented  to  it  or  dissented. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  seems  to  me  a  fair  observation,  Mr.  Chair- 
man, that  before  we  get  through  we  will  probably  want  to  put  a  great 
many  more  lines  on,  and  as  we  go  into  these  things  further,  I  think 
certainly  the  company  should  have  at  a  later  opportunity  a  chance  to 
make  its  comments  on  our  deductions. 

This  chart,  then,  the  second  one,  is  presented  as  "  International 
relations  in  war  materials,"  The  lines  down  here  are  perhaps  a 
little  more  careful.  The  dotted  line  is  entirely  on  sales  of  chemical 
or  other  patent  information  of  important  or  convertible  war  mate- 
rials or  processes.  I  do  not  think  there  will  be  too  much  dissent  to 
that.  This  is  not  only  based  on  the  recent  companies  we  have 
examined,  but  also  there  are  lines  representing  the  Electric  Boat 
Co.'s  connections.  It  does  not  say  "  chemicals."  It  is  our  general 
war  materials  map,  meaning  materials  that  could  be  readily  used 
in  case  of  a  war. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Might  I  ask  what  those  black  spots  repre- 
sent? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Companies,  let  us  say. 

The  Chairman.  Each  one  representing  an  individual  producer. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Yes.  This  would  be  du  Ponts,  this  the  Rem- 
ington, the  Electric  Boat  Co.  and  Colt's  and  so  on. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Is  that  big  black  one  du  Pont  ? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  We  probably  do  you  an  injustice,  but  it  is  the 
same  size  as  I.C.I. 

Senator  Cark.  Where  is  Vickers?  That  ought  to  be  as  big  as 
I.C.I. 


1  Hearings,   Part  V,   p.   1077. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY  2817 

Mr.  E.AUSHENBUSH.  Here  is  Vickers,  right  here. 

Senator  Clark.  You  have  that  too  small. 

Mr.  Kaushenbush.  The  artist  did  not  inquire  into  the  capitaliza- 
tion of  the  companies,  and  so  on. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont,  That  shows  a  continuous  line  from  the 
du  Pont  block  to  Norway.  I  do  not  know  of  any  financial  arrange- 
ments for  sales  and/or  part  ownership  or  prices  or  territory  with 
Norway.  It  is  that  top,  farthest  up  line,  that  goes  to  that  big  black 
block  in  the  United  States. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  is  line  16. 

Mr.  SwiNT.  Is  that  a  solid  line  ? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.   (reading)  : 

Financial  arrangements  for  sales  and/or  part  ownership  or  prices  or 
territory. 

It  could  be  an  arrangement  for  territory. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  We  have  not  any  arrangement  with 
Norway. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  seemed  as  a  territorial  arrangement. 

Here  is  a  letter  dated  December  19,  1927,  from  Dr.  Sparre  to  Mr. 
Crane  on  imported  nitric  acid.     [Reading:] 

In  reference  to  your  letter  of  December  19  to  Mr.  LaMotte  and  your  letter 
of  December  5  to  Dr.  Schmitz,  I  can  advise  you  tbat  on  December  8  I  sent  a 
wire  in  Mr.  Ir^nee  du  Pout's  name  to  Kutroff,  Pickhardt  &  Co.,  New  York,  to 
the  effect  that  the  du  Pont  Co.  did  not  want  Norsk  Hydro  to  ship  nitric  acid 
to  this  country.  This  wire  was  in  reply  to  a  wire  and  letter  from  Kutroff, 
Pickhardt  &  Co.  requesting  such  permission  on  our  part. 

There  is  a  further  letter  on  August  2,  1928,  from  vice  president  in 
charge  of  finances,  "  W.S.C.",  Mr.  Carpenter,  to  Norsk  Hydro : 

Dear  Sirs  :  I  refer  to  your  letter  of  July  19,  1928,  regarding  your  contract 
with  us  in  connection  with  the  shipment  of  nitric  acid  to  this  country.  You 
state  that  you  have  received  some  opinion  which  indicates  that  under  some 
phases  of  the  law  we  would  be  unable  to  restrain  your  importation  of  nitric 
acid  into  this  country — 

"  We  ",  meaning  du  Ponts — 

irrespective  of  the  condition  to  the  contrary  stipulated  in  our  contract  with 
you  of  1915. 

We  have  not  explored  the  legal  phases  of  this  particularly,  and  I  am  not 
questioning  the  correctness  of  that  opinion  from   the  legal  standpoint. 

I  understand,  however,  you  do  not  question  but  rather  confirm  in  your 
letter  that  both  the  letter  and  the  intent  of  our  contract  was  to  the  effect 
that  you  would  not  ship  acid  into  this  country.  For  this  contract  we  paid 
you  a  very  substantial  figure,  for  which,  due  to  the  general  economic  condi- 
tions on  this  continent,  it  was  impossible  for  us  to  receive  any  return. 

I  understand  from  your  letter  that  this  question  cannot  be  of  considerable 
importance  to  you  inasmuch  as  whatever  acid  you  are  unable  to  ship 
into  this  country  you  will  be  able  to  divert  under  your  arrangement  with  the 
I.G.  to  other  countries.  In  any  event,  the  duration  of  your  abstinence  from 
this  country  will  probably  be  very  brief,  due  to  your  change  of  methods  on 
your  side.  While  it  is  natural  that  it  would  be  our  preference  that  you  abide 
by  the  spirit  of  our  contract,  should  you  feel  otherwise  we  will  make  no 
effort  to  restrain  you. 

That  seemed  to  us  very  clearly  an  allocation  of  the  territory. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Not  at  all.  We  bought  from  the  Nor- 
wegian company  the  rights  to  a  process  for  the  United  States. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  That  speaks  about  their  shipping  nitric  acid 
into  the  States. 


2818  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  We  bought  the  rights  for  the  United 
States. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  You  bought  the  territorial  rights  for  the 
United  States. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  We  bought  the  patent  rights  for  the  United 
States. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  This  seems  territorial  to  us.  Is  it  not  terri- 
torial? 

Mr.  SwiNT.  No.  The  patent  rights  would  restrain  them  from 
shipping.  We  have  the  sole  and  exclusive  license  to  use  those 
patents. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  They  no  longer  had  a  right  to  the  patent, 
because  they  sold  it  to  us. 

Senator  Clark.  That  was  a  territorial  arrangement  then,  was  it 
not? 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  No. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  This  does  not  mention  patent  rights  here  at 
all.  It  mentions  the  importation  of  nitric  acid  and  the  fact  that  the 
du  Pont  Co.  do  not  want  Norsk  Hydro  to  ship  nitric  acid  to  this 
country. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  No  ;  we  did  not  want  them  to  ship  it  here, 
because  we  bought  the  sole  rights. 

Mr.  Raushenbush  (reading)  : 

Regarding  j'Oiir  contract  witli  us  in  connection  with  tlie  sliipnient  of  nitric 
acid. 

That  does  not  say  "  patent  " ;  that  says  the  shipment  of  nitric  acid. 
Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  am  telling  you  we  bought  the  patent 
rights. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  You  said  : 

We  would  be  unable  to  restrain  your  importations  of  nitric  acid  into  this 
■country  irrespective  of  the  condition  to  the  contrary  stipulated  in  our  contract. 

That  seems  to  us  one  of  these  territorial  things  that  I.  C.  I.  had 
to  such  a  large  extent,  simply  a  business  of  allocation  of  territory. 
That  comes  under  the  head  of  territory,  "  and/or  part  ownership  or 
prices  or  territory." 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  think  there  are  a  lot  of  lines  missing  on 
that. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  Certainly.  Our  information  is  certainly  not 
as  complete  as  it  could  be.  The  exhibit  was  offered  with  that  under- 
standing. 

The  Chairman.  I  think  Mr.  Raushenbush  stated  that  the  chart 
was  subject  to  amendment  by  the  committee  as  well  as  by  others  w^ho 
might  have  information  that  would  alter  it  in  any  way. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  I  would  like  to  make  the  same  statement  in 
regard  to  this  chart  as  the  last.  We  have  not  had  a  chance  to 
examine  it,  and  we  neither  approve  it  nor  disapprove  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  exhibit  was  offered  as  a  committee  exhibit 
rather  than  a  company  exhibit,  and  I  think  we  could,  if  we  find  our- 
selves in  error,  certainly  change  it. 

The  Chairman.  We  ought  to. 

It  is  received  as  a  committee  exhibit. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Could  we  obtain  a  photostat  of  those  two 
charts  with  the  supporting  data  on  which  they  are  built? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2819 

The  Chairman.  Within  a  very  few  days,  Mr.  du  Pont,  the  Print- 
ing Office  will  have  available  the  reprint  of  that  in  the  form  in  which 
it  will  appear  in  the  record.  I  take  it  that  that  would  serve  your 
purpose  as  fairly  as  a  photograph  of  it. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  And  this  guide  has  been  offered  as  an  exhibit. 

The  Chairman.  You  have  a  guide  for  each  chart? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  With  all  the  lines  designated. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Mr.  Chairman,  might  I  say  a  word? 

I  have  not  had  an  opportunity  to  see  the  chart,  except  from  the  far 
end  of  the  room.  It  appears  to  me  it  is  about  as  misleading  a  thing 
as  could  be  desired.  It  seems  there  is  no  weight  given  whatever  to 
the  lines  or  the  dots  or  what  they  are  related  to.  This  one  line  shows 
a  patent  agreement,  and  apparently  it  is  done  the  same  way  as  if  the 
du  Pont  Co.  owned  100  percent  of  the  company. 

The  Chairman.  I  do  not  think  that  is  necessarily  the  conclusion 
to  be  drawn  at  all.  It  seems  to  me  the  index  is  very  clear  as  respects 
that. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  But  there  are  so  many  different  things  pic- 
tured there,  and  the  chart  does  not  readily  show  that. 

The  Chairman.  The  chart  as  respects  that  continuous  line  shows 
that  there  is  indicated  a  financial  arrangement  for  sales  and/or  part 
ownership  or  prices  or  territory. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  As  far  as  I  can  see,  there  is  nothing  to  show 
whether  it  is  a  patent  agreement  with  regard  to  nitric  acid  or  the 
sale  of  an  electric  boat. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  No,  we  did  not  draw  pictures  on  all  of  them 
to  show  what  they  had  to  do  with. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  It  is  such  a  confusion  of  lines  and  dots  I 
cannot  see  how  anybody  could  get  any  idea  of  the  situation  fjom  it. 
As  a  picture  it  is  well  done,  but  I  cannot  see  that  it  illustrates  any- 
thing. I  wish  to  object  to  its  being  entered  into  the  record,  because 
it  is  confusing  rather  than  illuminating. 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  The  Chairman  extended  permission  to  extend 
this  "  Exhibit  No.  1101  "  by  summarizing  after  the  sources  of  the 
information  the  substance  of  the  letter.  That  means  going  through 
some  three  hundred  letters,  I  take  it,  to  give  the  quotation. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  The  supporting  detail  will  supply  the  miss- 
ing information  ? 

Mr.  Raushenbush.  It  will  supply  the  missing  information. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Is  Mr.  du  Pont's  objection  recorded? 

The  Chairman.  I  expect  it  was. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  should  like  to  have  that  objection  recorded 
in  capital  letters,  if  possible. 

The  Chair:\[An.  The  reporter  has  been  recording  all  this  con- 
versation. 

The  connnittee  in  taking  a  recess  at  this  time  will  recess  until 
10  :  30  tomorrow  morning. 

(Thereupon,  the  committee  recessed  at  4  o'clock  ]3.  m.  until  to- 
morrow morning  at  10  o'clock,  Thursday,  December  13,  1931.) 

This  concludes  that  part  of  the  testimony  known  as  "  Part  XII, 
Relationship  of  Munitions  Makers  to  the  Government  and  Interna- 
tional Connections  in  the  Chemical  Industry."  At  this  point  the 
committee  took  up  the  question  of  profiteering.  Government  con- 
tracts, and  expenditures  during  the  war.     (See  part  XIII.) 


APPENDIX 

("Exhibit  No.  990"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2637) 


Exhibit  No.  991 

[Pile:  105] 

NOVEMBEK   25,    1919. 

NOBEL    AGREEMENT 
Mr.    F.    W.    PiCKABD, 

Vice  President. 

As  I  understand  the  situation,  we  are  contemplating  entering  into  an  agree- 
ment with  the  Explosives  Trades,  Limited,  on  a  division  of  profits  from  the 
sales  of  military  and  commercial  products  in  South  America  and  elsewhere. 
I  am  not  familiar  with  the  purpose  in  back  of  tliis  arrangement,  but  assume 
that  the  idea  is  that  it  will  result  in  a  better  percentage  of  profit  by  the 
elimination  of  competition ;  that  is  the  only  reason  I  can  imagine. 

Personally,  I  cannot  see  whereby  we  will  be  the  gainers  by  any  arrangement 
we  can  make  with  Nobel.  The  Du  Pont  Company  today  is  preeminently  the 
leading  manufacturer  of  explosives  in  the  world  and  with  a  record  for  satis- 
factory production  that  has  never  been  equalled.  This  fact  is  known  not 
only  by  the  Allies,  but  has  been  thoroughly  appreciated  by  the  Central  Powers 
as  well  as  the  neutral  nations.  Tiierefore,  we  have  a  prestige  second  to  none,, 
which  will  not  be  materially  strengthened  by  the  above-mentioned  arrange- 
ment.   As  far  as  prestige  is  concerned,  we  will  be  giving  more  than  we  receive. 

If  it  is  expected  that  this  arrangement  will  enable  us  to  control  the  market 
in  South  America  to  our  mutual  advantage,  I  think  we  are  working  on  a  false 
hypothesis.  South  American  countries,  with  the  exceptions  of  their  navies, 
are  armed  and  equipped  with  German-made  small  arms,  and  with  German  and 
French  field  artillery.  There  may  be  a  few  English  guns  for  Cordite  in  some 
of  the  coast  defenses,  but  my  understanding  is  that  the  majority  of  these 
guns  are  Krupp,  which  practically  indicates  that  the  only  English  powder 
used  is  powder  that  is  sold  for  use  on  English-built  warships. 

England  has  succeeded  for  some  years  in  impressing  nations  where  guns 
built  for  nitroglycerin  powder  have  been  supplied  that  they  will  work  satis- 
factorily with  nitroglycerin  powder  only,  but  this  notion  has  been  shown  to 
be  erroneous,  and  now  it  is  a  relatively  small  matter  to  prove  to  the  satis- 
faction of  interested  people  that  nitrocellulose  powders  can  be  made  that  will 
give  equal  satisfaction  in  guns  of  the  so-called  "  nitroglycerin  "  type. 

The  competition  that  we  have  to  fear  is  that  of  the  German,  French,  and 
Italian,  but  principally  German,  and  unless  there  is  something  with  whicJi  I 
am  not  familiar  I  cannot  see  in  what  way  any  arrangement  we  make  with 
Nobel  will  protect  us  against  this  competition.  In  fact,  even  in  tlie  case  of  the 
English-made  guns,  if  the  nation  should  insist  on  using  nitroglycerin  powder,  we 
are  still  unprotected  by  reason  of  Italian  competition.  Therefore,  as  I  see  it, 
we  will  be  making  an  arrangement  whereby  instead  of  dividing  a  fair  profit 
which  division  will  net  us  more,  we  will  in  reality  be  in  an  arrangement  where 
the  division  of  profit  will  be  materially  lessened  by  reason  of  the  fact  that  we 
still  have  the  competition  of  Germany,  France,  and  Italy  to  meet. 

The  above  indicates  the  practical  side,  luit  there  is  another  angle  which  in 
my  mind  is  the  more  important,  and  that  is,  that  by  making  an  arrangement  to 
divide  profits  on  sales  of  military  explosives,  we  are  inviting  the  attack  of 
unfriendly  people  and  muckrakers.  No  matter  how  clean  the  arrangement  may 
be,  it  is  bound  to  be  misconstrued.  We  will  be  accused  of  exchanging  Govern- 
ment information  with  England.  Our  explanation  that  this  is  but  a  selling 
arrangement  will  not  alter  the  fact  that  in  order  to  divide  profits,  those  profits 
are  based  on  some  cost.  That  cost  will  be  stated  to  be  tlie  United  States  Gov- 
ernment cost.    Therefore,  we  will  be  informing  England  as  to  what  it  is  costing 

2820 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2821 

the  United  States  to  manufacture  its  powder.  "We  will  also  be  accused  of 
informing  England  as  to  tlie  quantity  of  powder  for  military  purposes  made 
in  the  United  States;  how  much  is  exported;  and  how  much  the  United 
States  has. 

In  spite  of  the  fact  that  on  interchange  of  information  on  patents,  military 
explosives  are  specifically  exempted,  we  will  be  attacked  with  the  statement  that 
by  informing  them  of  the  sales  and  the  costs  on  which  the  profits  are  based, 
that  we  cannot  avoid  informing  them  regarding  compositions.  This  arrange- 
ment will  give  representatives  in  Congress  just  the  ammunition  tliey  are  look- 
ing ofr  to  attack  us,  and  we  will  be  accused  of  being  traitors ;  of  giving  away 
Government  secrets,  etc.  All  we  have  to  do  is  to  look  over  the  hearings  on 
the  different  appropriation  bills  to  realize  what  thin  ice  we  would  be  on.  " 

In  addition,  the  attack  made  on  us  in  Harper's  "Weekly  in  1914  is  still 
pretty  fresh  in  our  minds,  and  we  stiil  hear  of  this  occasionally.  The  testi- 
mony and  exhibits  at  the  time  of  the  du  Pont  dissolution  suit,  the  testimony  and 
exhibits  at  the  time  of  the  Post-du  Pont  libel  suit,  are  conclusive  evidence  of 
the  risk  we  are  running. 

In  that  case  there  was  this  difference ;  when  we  were  accused  of  interchang- 
ing information  with  Germany  on  account  of  the  arrangement  we  had  with  the 
Rhenish-Westphalian  Company,  this  agreement  had  been  made  at  the  request 
of  the  Secretary  of  the  Navy.  The  arrangement  which  we  are  contemplating 
at  the  present  time  has  no  such  foundation  and  I  am  sure  would  not  be  looked 
on  with  favor  by  the  oflScials  of  the  Army  or  Navy.  Furthermore,  I  fear  that 
such  an  arrangement  as  we  are  contemplating  would  jeopardize  our  present 
friendly  relations  with  the  Army  and  Navy,  for  their  representatives  would 
hesitate  about  taking  us  into  their  confidence  for  fear  that  the  information 
would  reach  England. 

From  the  above,  it  would  appear  to  me  that  in  this  arrangement  we  have 
everything  to  lose  and  nothing  to  gain.  If  it  was  going  to  result  in  some  satis- 
factory return,  then  we  might  feel  that  we  would  be  justified  in  taking  a  chance 
on  hostile  attacks,  but  it  appears  we  will  be  in  reality  only  cutting  our  profits 
in  two,  profits  that  will  be  fairly  narrow  by  reason  of  German,  French,  and 
Italian  competition,  and  then  in  addition  will  be  placing  ourselves  in  a  vul- 
nerable position  or  hostile  attack.  It  seems  to  me  that  we  should  give  the 
subject  very  careful  consideration  before  entering  into  such  an  arrangement. 

(Signed)     K.  K.  V.  Casey, 

Director  of  Sales. 

Exhibit  No.  992 

[File-MS-lOO-C] 

(Trip  to  Washington,  D.C.,  May  16,  1922) 

May  17,  1922. 
Memo  for  file. 

Called  on  Major  O'Leary,  small  arms  division,  regarding  purchase  from 
Frankford  Arsenal  of  160,000  cupronickel  bullet  envelopes,  lead  plugs,  and 
surrated  plugs  for  incediary  ammunition.  Major  O'Leary  had  received  a  letter 
from  Major  Whelen  on  this  subject.  He  stated  that  it  was  not  regular  proce- 
dure to  sell  material  which  was  being  held  in  reserve ;  but  due  to  the  fact  that 
we  needed  the  components  in  a  hurry,  he  would  oblige  us  and  would  at  once 
notify  Frankford  Arsenal  to  make  the  sale  under  the  conditions  outlined  in 
Major  Whelen's  letter  of  May  15th.  Major  O'Leary  also  stated  that  we  could 
obtain  the  material  on  Thursday,  May  18th. 

Interviewed  the  following  officers  of  military  intelligence  regarding  Slam: 
Capt.  O'Connor,  Capt.  "Vanderbilt,  Capt.  Baldwin,  Col.  Graham. 

Read  their  file  on  Siam,  but  no  reference  was  made  to  the  building  of  a 
powder  factory  in  Bangkok.  Capt.  Vanderbilt  returned  from  Siam  in  April, 
and  he  stated  that  he  was  not  of  the  opinion  that  Siam  contemplated  building 
a  powder  factory.  He  felt  quite  sure  it  would  have  been  drawn  to  his  atten- 
tion by  the  military  attach^.  However,  Capt.  "Vanderbilt  spent  but  six  days  at 
Bangkok  and  stated  that  nothing  was  mentioned  by  the  military  attach^  regard- 
ing the  construction  of  a  powder  factory. 

Capt.  Vanderbilt  also  stated  that  Siam  liked  to  deal  with  Americans  in  pref- 
erence to  British  or  French  and  did  not  believe  that  a  powder  factory  would 


2822 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


be  much  of  a  success  in  Bangkok,  since  they  had  heretofore  purchased  powder 
from  the  du  Pont  Co.  Capt.  Vanderbilt  promised  to  speak  to  some  Siamese 
friends  of  his  who  recently  arrived  in  Wilmington  and  believes  he  can  get  some 
up-to-date  information  from  them  on  this  subject. 

Capt.  O'Connor  promised  to  request  the  Navy  to  send  a  wireless  through  to 
Bangkok  and  inquire  as  to  the  matter  of  a  powder  factory. 

We  consider  this  information  confidential. 

E.  I.  DU  Pont  de  Nemotjes  &  Co., 
By  K.  K.  V.  Casey. 

May  17,  1922. 

Major  Baldwin  advised  that  the  Bnklwin  Locomotive  Co.  had  a  very  com- 
plete file  on  Siam  and  suggested  that  we  inquire  from  that  concern  as  to  the 
correctness  of  four  information  on  a  Siamese  powder  factory. 

Called  on  General  Humphrey  and  asked  him  what  he  knew  about  Mr.  A.  W. 
Randall.  Told  General  Humphrey  that  Mr.  Randall  mentioned  his  name 
during  a  conversation,  and  further  stated  that  he,  Mr.  Randall,  was  very  well 
connected  with  the  Polish  Government.  General  Humphrey  repoi'ted  that 
he  knew  Capt.  Randall  very  well  in  a  business  way ;  that  Capt.  Randal  was 
formerly  chief  of  transportation  for  the  Polish  mission  in  this  country,  and 
as  General  Humphrey  supplied  boats  and  arranged  for  transportation  of  mate- 
rials purchased  by  the  Polish  niii^sion  from  the  United  States  Government,  he 
came  in  contact  with  Capt.  Randall  a  great  deal. 

General  Humphrey  called  up  the  counselor  of  the  Polish  Embassy  and  in- 
quired as  to  whether  Capt.  Randall  had  any  connection  with  them ;  also  as  to 
what  they  thought  of  him.  I  was  permitted  to  listen  to  the  counselor's  reply, 
in  which  he  stated  that  he  had  not  seen  Randall  in  eight  or  nine  months  but 
thought  very  well  of  him.  General  Humphrey,  liowever,  believes  that  a 
Major  C.  S.  Mardeu,  purchasing  agent  for  the  Polish  mission,  would  be  of 
greater  help  to  us  in  negotiating  a  sale  of  military  powder  to  Poland.  He 
further  stated  that  it  was  quite  likely  that  he  himself  could  negotiate  the  deal 
through  the  Polish  Embassy,  where  he  is  very  well  thought  of  and  highly 
regarded. 

Arranged  with  General  Humpliiey  for  Major  Casey  to  call  on  him  on  Friday, 
May  19tl\,  to  go  into  this  subject. 

W.  H.  O'GORMAN. 

WHO'G/h 

We  consider  this  information  confidential. 

E.  I.  DU  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co., 
By  K.  K.  V.  Casey. 


Exhibit  No.  993 

[File:  MS-8  (attached  to  letter  ol  1/9/24)] 

Foreign  business  from  armis'Ace  to  December  31st,  1923 


Date 

Country 

Material 

Quantity 

Price 

Total 

4/24/19 

Greece 

Greece 

Siam 

Greece 

Spain 

Siam 

Spain __ 

Spain 

Mexico 

Japan 

Poland 

Mexico 

Greece 

Japan 

Japan 

Brazil 

Brazil 

Holland 

Holland 

Pressure  coppers 

5,000 

100,000# 

33,600# 

140,000# 

n0,230# 

33,600# 

110,2.30# 

220,500* 

1],023# 

140,000  rds... 

440,000# 

110,230* 

16,000 

$39.07  per  M.. 
80ji 

$195. 35 

5/22/19  

I.M.R.  #  15 

80, 000. 00 

6/3/20 

Pur.  I.M.R.  #  15 

80^ 

26, 880. 00 

4/15/21     .  . 

I.M.R. spec.  .     

726 

100, 800. 00 

10/17/21 

Pur.  I.M.R.  #  15 

Pur.  I.M.R.  #  17 

Pur.  I.M.R.  #  15 

Pur.  T.N.T 

Pur.  I.M.R.  spec 

52ji 

57, 319.  60 

1/5/22 

80<i 

26, 800. 00 

3/15/22 

52^ 

57, 319.  60 

53«i 

116,865.00 

4/29/22 

65<i 

7, 164. 95 

2/15/22 

8/14/22.. 

Incen.  ammunition 

Coyne  can.,  75  m/m 

"      "      &  rifle 

$227.50  per  M. 

2ei 

31, 850. 00 
114,600.00 

500 

55,115.00 

476. 00 

Incen.  cartridges 

100,000 

22, 750. 00 

100 

1, 100. 00 

30, 000. 00 

1/17/23     . 

150# 

70<i 

105.  00 

2/8/23 

Gas  masks 

2 

$14.00 

28.00 

Pyralin  grenades 

100 

6.25 

625. 00 

MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2823 

Foreign  business  from  armistice  to  December  31,  1923 — Continued 


Date 

Country 

Material 

Quantity 

Price 

Total 

2/8/23 

Poland 

France 

Poland 

Poland 

Mexico 

Poland 

Poland 

Sweden 

Coyne  rifle,  I.M.R.  #  17... 
I.M.R.  #  17 

110,230* 

110# 

36it 

$39, 650.  00 

3/7/23 

1.10            

120.00 

I.M.R.  #  15 

110# 

1.10 

120.00 

3/26/23 

Coyne  can.,  U.S.  3 

Coyne  rifle,  I.M.R.  #  17... 
Pistol  pdr.,  #5 

551,150* 

220,460* 

245*    

.26 

.36 

143,  250.  00 

3/26/23  

79, 300. 00 

7/27/23 

1.30 

3  IS.  50 

9/13/23 

U.S.  5,  Coyne  can 

551,150* 

1..       

.26 

13.00..       .  . 

143, 250. 00 

10/4/23 

Smokebo.x...  .... . 

13.00 

12/4/23 

Diphenylamine  

11,023 

.50 

5,511.50 

Total 

$1, 141,  526.  50 

Note. — U.  S.  Government  business  not  included  in  above. 


Exhibit  No.  984 
[File:   MS-IOO-B,    no.    H-24] 

VISIT  TO  OFFICES  OF  BE3THLEHEM  STEEL  CO.  AUGUST  1 6TH 


8/18/22. 


Discussed  the  following  subjects  with  Messrs.  Struble,  Tice,  Mixsell,  and 
Froelich : 

1.  Test  of  powder,  to  be  delivered  under  Polish  contract,  in  75  m/in  French 
gun.  They  apparently  have  no  suitable  gun  at  their  proving  ground,  but  will 
determine  what  can  be  done  and  write  us. 

2.  Experimental  and  development  work. —  (a)  Discussed  history  of  develop- 
ment and  results  given  by  "  du  Pont  100  grain  "  primer  for  75  m/m,  so  that 
its  general  use,  as  well  as  application  to  FNH  powder,  would  be  thoroughly 
understootl.    Also  discussed  general  subject  of  ignition  with  Mr.  Mixsell. 

{b)  Design  of  "super  trench  mortar."  Bethlehem  Steel  Co.  have  a  number 
of  inquiries  for  an  improvement  over  the  Stokes  mortar,  to  have  greater  range, 
as  given  by  a  rifled  gun,  but  without  noise  or  flash,  revealing  position.  Have 
carried  out  tests,  attaching  special  aluminum  base  to  4"  projectile  and  using 
celluloid  "  soap  boxes  ",  modified  to  act  as  containers  for  the  powder.  Have  had 
trouble  in  that  the  aluminum  base  does  not  hold  the  rifling  properly.  Suggested 
the  design  of  the  Livens'  projector  and  charge  as  being  much  preferable  and 
promised  to  cooperate  with  Mr.  Mixsell  in  obtaining  satisfactory  design.  Will 
send  him  drawings  of  the  Livens'  projector  and  write  a  suitable  letter  with 
suggestions  from  Major  Casey. 

Reduction  in  sound  to  be  gained  through  the  use  of  FNH  powder,  giving  lower 
temperature  and  greater  gas  volume.  Inquiries  have  been  for  compressed  gas 
apparatus,  but  this  is  not  considered  practical.  Suggested,  desirability  of 
"  silencer  "  on  muzzle  to  reduce  sound  and  flash.  Will  follow  this  up  as  oppor- 
tunity offers. 

3.  Learned  that  Peru  has  approached  the  Bethlehem  Steel  Co.  for  ammunition 
lor  the  navy.  As  soon  as  detail  of  gun  constants  are  available  we  will  be  asked 
for  estimate  on  powder  chai'ges. 

4.  Nothing  new  in  Brazilian  developments,  except  that  as  the  battleship 
Maryland  and  possibly  also  the  Nevada  will  be  in  the  Harbor  of  Rio  de  Janeiro 
at  the  time  of  the  exposition  to  represent  the  United  States,  the  Bethlehem 
Steel  Co.  is  supplying  the  officers  of  the  Maryland  with  data  on  Bethlehem  Steel 
guns  and  armament  for  appropriate  use.  We  will  endeavor  to  determine  to  what 
extent  this  suggestion  might  be  followed  to  our  advantage,  it  being  primarily  a 
question  of  personalities,  etc. 

5.  Mr.  Struble  reiterates  previous  statements  to  the  effect  that  although  sales 
of  their  military  supplies  for  exports  are  not  very  active  at  present,  the  pros- 
pects for  sales  in  a  few  years'  time  are  very  good  indeed. 

C.  I.  B.  Henning. 
ClBH/h. 


("Exhibit  No.  995"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2652.) 


2824  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Exhibit  No.  996 
[File:  MS-8] 


March  26,  1924. 


Assistance  from  Navy  Dept.  in  Connection  with 

Sales  to  Foreign  Governments. 
Memo,  for  A.  Felix  du  Pont. 

In  December  1923,  during  an  interview  with  Admiral  Bloch  of  the  Navy 
Dept  I  was  informed  that  the  Bureau  of  Ordnance,  Navy,  would  do  everything 
within  its  power  to  assist  us  in  making  sales  to  foreign  governments.  Further, 
Capt  Bloch  stated  that  the  E.  W.  Bliss  Co.  recently  approached  the  Navy  m 
connection  with  torpedoes  to  be  supplied  to  the  Argentine  Government.  The 
E  W  Bliss  Company  was  interested  in  getting  some  data  on  high  explosives 
used  in  loading  torpedoes  and  asked  the  Navy  to  recommend  or  refer  them 
to  a  firm  which  could  do  this  type  of  work.  Admiral  Bloch  referred  the  BUss 
Company  to  the  writer,  and  formally  notified  us  to  this  effect  under  date  of 
January  2d,  1924,  as  per  copy  of  letter  attached.  , 

IRepresentatives  of  the  Bliss  Company  came  to  Wilmington  to  obtain  our 
quotations  on  the  loading  of  75  warheads.  For  this  work  we  furnished  quota- 
tions of  $300  per  warhead.  The  operation  involved  loading  395  pounds  of  TNT 
in  each  warhead  and  5  pounds  of  TNT  in  the  booster  container. 

This  morning  we  were  notified  by  E.  W.  Bliss  that  they  had  concluded  their 
negotiations  in  Argentine  and  had  been  favored  with  a  contract  and  therefore 
accepted  our  offer  to  load  75  warheads  in  accordance  with  the  above  prices. 
The  estimated  cost  in  doing  this  work  is  $175  per  warhead ;  our  forecasted  profit 
is  therefore  $125  per  warhead. 

This  is  a  good  example  of  cooperation  on  the  Navy's  part,  and  we  believe 
it   is   worth    while   to  make  the  facts   of   the   case  known   to   the   executive 
committee 
jQ5;V0 :  N  K.  K.  V.  Casey,  Director. 


Exhibit  No.  997 

[File  144,   Polish  Government]  «,     ^r>o^ 

July  24,  1924. 

co:  brandywinb3  laboratory. 
Mr.  F.  W.  Bbadway, 

Tyi/TPCtOT' ' 

Colonel  Taylor,  in  his  letter  T-809  dated  July  11,  1924,  advises  that  the  Polish 
War  Department  is  sending  to  Wilmington  at  our  invitation  an  officer  nam^ 
Captain  Maryan  Klonowski.  This  officer  is  attached  to  the  Xth  Department 
of  the  Polish  General  Staff,  known  as  the  War  Industry  Department.  We  under- 
stand that  he  is  a  chemist  and  that  his  duties  are  technical,  that  he  is  supposed 
to  keep  informed  on  all  chemical  industries,  and  acts  in  an  advisory  capacity 
to  the  chief  of  the  department  on  technical  chemical  matters.  He  nas  no 
knowledge  on  the  manufacture  of  smokeless  powder  and  the  purpose  of  sendi"^g 
him  to  America  is  to  educate  him  in  this  respect.  In  all  probability,  be  ^n  m  be 
mostly  concerned  with  raw  materials  entering  into  the  manufacture  of  powdei, 

From  Taylor's  letter,  we  quote  as  follows: 

"  I  am  very  glad  he  is  going  to  be  sent  to  America  because  it  will  inean  that 
the  Chief  of  the  War  Industry  Department  chemical  man  will  be  American 
1?  his  powder  point  of  view,  and  insSre  a  good  work  for  us  in  that  Department 
which  has  an  important  effect  on  our  business."  „^^woc 

The  program  which  they  desire  for  this  officer  is  as  fo"«^f-^3^hen  he  arrives 
in  America,  he  will  go  directly  to  Wilmington  and  present  himself  to  Major 
Cai?^  Thave  given  him  a  letter  of  introduction.  He  will  also  have  a  letter 
from  General  Rice  to  an  officer  in  the  Ordnance  Department  in  which  General 
Rice  wm  request  the  Ordnance  Department  to  show  him  our  various  schemes 
of  m^il  zing  the  powder  industries,  what  contracts  our  Government  makes 
with  powder  industries,  and  have  him  visit  the  Government  arsenals.  He  then 
wshes  to  return  to  Wilmington  and  to  learn  what  raw  materials  enter  into 
nowder  th?pioportions  of  them,  general  manufacture  of  powder,  and  how  to 
SfchemicSlJnd  stability  tests  and  how  our  storage  of  test  magazines  are 
^nernted  This  officer  will  travel  at  his  own  expense,  pay  his  own  expenses 
aSd  ?s  wniing  to  work  as  a  common  laborer  in  the  factory  under  the  ordinary 
conditions  of  factory  labor. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY  2825 

"  I  trust  you  will  be  able  to  arrange  a  suitable  program  for  him  so  that  he 
will  get  general  information  and  not  learn  the  things  you  don't  want  him  to 
know  and  that  he  will  get  some  idea  of  how  the  powder  business  should  be 
conducted,  and  contracts  and  so  forth  should  be  made.  I  believe  that  it  will  be 
a  good  thing  for  us  to  have  an  opportunity  to  educate  him  and  the  proper 
method  of  doing  business  in  America,  as  this  officer's  functions  in  Poland  will 
be  a  check  on  the  activities  of  the  other  people  we  have  to  deal  with." 

We  think  it  would  be  wise  to  arrange  a  program  at  the  Brandywine  Labora- 
tory for  the  Polish  officer,  and  possibly  take  him  to  Carney's  Point  on  2  or  3 
occasions,  and  permit  him  to  see  tlie  manufacture  of  military  powder. 
WHO'G/h.  K.  K.  V.  Casejy,  Director. 

("Exhibit  No.  998"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2661.) 


Exhibit  No.  999 

[File:  MS-lOO-B,  no.  106-H] 

November  20,  1924. 

diphentlaminb,  ordnance  department,  washington,  d.  c,  november  19,  1924 

Referring  to  memo.  no.  105,  dated  November  18th,  and  following  up  the 
unfinished  features  of  this,  trip  was  made  to  Washington  to  negotiate  details 
by  which  we  would  obtain  the  diphenylamine,  also  to  increase  the  amount,  if 
possible.  Major  C.  T.  Harris  had  given  Major  P.  J.  O'Shaughnessy  instructions 
to  have  a  contract  prepared  acceptable  to  us,  but  at  the  same  time  complying 
with  Ordnance  Department  procedure  and  the  laws  of  Congress  relating  to 
contracts  for  ordnance  material.  Major  O'Shaughnessy's  first  move  was  to 
consult  the  ammunition  division  as  to  their  wishes,  and  especially  the  matter 
of  detail  of  specifications.  C.  G.  Storm  handled  this  matter  for  the  ammunition 
division,  and  inasmuch  as  this  sul)ject  had  been  previously  discussed  with  Dr. 
Storm  on  Monday,  November  17th,  he  was  not  inclined  to  make  any  trouble. 

As  a  follow-up  of  this  discussion,  it  will  be  desirable  to  send  to  the  ammuni- 
tion division  again,  for  the  attention  of  Dr.  Storm,  report  of  investigations 
carried  out  by  the  experimental  station  a  number  of  years  ago  indicating  the 
effect  of  impurities  in  diphenylamine  when  used  for  stabilizing  cannon  powder. 
Also,  it  will  be  in  order  to  consider  further  revisions  of  the  specifications  for 
diphenylamine,  taking  advantage  of  the  fact  that  we  are  now  enabled  to 
manufacture  a  pure  product  because  of  our  experience  in  the  manufacture  of 
diphenylamine  as  an  intermediate  in  preparing  dyestuffs.  The  particular  point 
is  that  the  Ordnance  Department  specifications  contain  no  requirement  as  to 
the  percentage  of  diphenylamine  in  the  product  supplied,  depending  upon  va- 
rious physical  tests  such  as  melting  point  and  the  tests  for  certain  impurities. 

Our  commercial  specifications  state  that  the  diphenylamine  offered  will 
contain  at  least  99.5%  diphenylamine.  Major  O'Shaughnessy  would  Uke  to 
have  made  use  of  the  new  specifications  for  reworked  diphenylamine  as  a 
justification  for  the  contract  for  "  reworking  ",  but  we  convinced  him  that  the 
time  necessary  to  prepare  and  have  approved  new  specifications,  was  such  that 
it  was  impracticable  to  do  this. 

The  contract  prepared  for  reworking  60,000  pounds  of  diphenylamine  and  as 
eventually  obtained,  follows  the  laws  of  our  "  standard  contract "  as  used 
in  the  supply  of  smokeless  powder  to  the  Ordnance  Department.  The  pro- 
visions of  the  contract  are  made  as  simple  as  possible  and  require  no  bond 
for  the  performance.  Further,  article  VI  relating  to  liquidated  damages  has 
been  deleted  and  the  date  of  delivery  was  made  very  liberal,  that  of  March  31, 
1925.  We  have  arranged  to  have  deliveries  at  Raritan  Arsenal,  and  this  point 
has  to  us  the  advantage  of  involving  lower  transportation  costs  than  delivery 
to  Picatinny  Arsenal. 

A  justification  for  this  from  the  standpoint  of  the  Ordnance  Department  is 
that  Picatinny  Arsenal  is  short  of  storage  facilities.  ^ 

It  was  arranged  to  have  Major  Ramsey  at  Picatinny  Arsenal  notified  officially 
by  telephone  of  the  preparation  of  the  contract  and  ofiicial  letter  was  mailed 
8387e— 35— PT  12 13 


2826  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

him  yesterday  giving  him  authority  to  release  60,000  lbs.  of  diphenylamine  to 
us.  It  is  in  order  to  discuss  this  subject  with  Major  Ramsey  and  to  ascertain 
any  criticisms  or  objections  that  he  may  have.  The  writer  will  undertake  to 
do  this. 

C.  I.  B.  Hbnning. 


Exhibit  No.  1000 

[File :  188-U.  S.  Govt.    (Army)   Diphenylanrine] 

[Copy] 

Wilmington,  Dex,.,  November  19,  192/f. 
Major  N.  F.  Ramsey, 

Picatinny  Arsenal,  Dover,  N.  J.: 
Our  truck  will  call  at  arsenal  Thursday  for  load  of  diphenylamine.    AVill  you 
please   deliver   approximately   ten   thousand   pounds   in   accordance   with    our 
agreement  with  Ordnance  Department.    Letter  giving  shipping  instructions  for 
balance  of  approximately  fifty  thousand  pounds  follows. 

K,  K.  V.  Caset^. 
Ohge :  Smokeless  powder  selling  expense*ms*tt. 
No.  807-H.    Please  return  third  copy  to  Mil.  Sales  Div. 


("Exhibit  No.  1001"'  appears  in  text  on  p.  2666.) 


("Exhibit  No.  1002"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2668.) 


("Exhibit  No.  1003"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2670.) 


("Exhibit  No.  1004"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2671.) 


("Exhibit  No.  1005"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2672) 


Exhibit  No.  1006 
[11S8-23-T.     Ms-lOO-A.     188-U.    S.   Gov't.     S4-Cuban   Gov't.] 

January  12,  1934. 
Memo,  for  file. 

Washington,  D.  C,  January  11,  193/f. 

Saw  Colonel  Ramsey  and  Dr.  Storm  and  handed  them  a  memorandum  pre- 
pared by  Mr.  Babbitt  of  the  explosives  department  on  the  approximate  cost 
of  different  methods  of  reconditioning  TNT  now  at  Fort  Wingate,  which  is  below 
the  desired  melting  point.  This  memorandum  was  exactly  what  they  desired, 
their  object  being  to  show  the  Ordnance  Department  it  would  be  preferable  to 
purchase  new  TNT. 

Colonel  Ramsey  advised  me  that  he  had  started  things  moving  on  the 
memorandum  prepared  by  Mr.  Skilling  regarding  the  labor  situation  at  Carneys 
Point. 


Pencil  markinga. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2827 

Saw  General  Bricker  and  left  with  him  a  copy  of  Mr.  Skilling's  memorandum 
of  December  29,  on  the  subject  of  labor  conditions  at  Carneys  Point.  I 
advised  him,  however,  that  since  that  was  written  we  had  received  a  proposal 
for  150,000  pounds  of  .30-caliber  powder,  which  would  change  the  picture  to 
that  extent. 

Took  up  with  Major  Wilhelm  the  question  of  penetration  of  .50-caliber 
cartridges  in  armor  plate  at  different  distances,  this  information  being  needed 
to  answer  an  inquiry  from  the  Paris  office  affecting  the  offer  of  some  Rem- 
ington armor-piercing  ammunition. 

Saw  General  Tschappat,  who  advised  me  that  while  they  had  had  nothing 
definite  regarding  the  Public  Works  money  for  the  fiscal  year  1935,  that  they 
were  relying  on  the  promise  the  President  had  made  to  the  Assistant  Secretary 
of  War,  Woodring,  wliere  he  agreed  to  allot  the  Ordnance  Department  $6,000,000 
per  year  for  two  years  in  order  to  enable  them  to  continue  with  their  ammu- 
nition projects. 

Had  quite  a  discussion  with  Major  Borden  on  the  general  topic  of  the  sales 
of  powder  to  foreign  countries.  Major  Borden  stated  that  they  knew  the  posi- 
tion du  Pont  would  take  in  such  matters  in  case  they  should  request  that 
material  not  be  supplied  to  a  certain  power,  but  he  asked  if  we  would  be  willing 
to  go  a  step  further  and  refuse  to  supply  material  to  a  manufacturer  of  ammu- 
nition who  in  turn  might  be  offering  it  to  a  foreign  power  where  they  were 
anxious  to  prevent  this  foreign  power  from  getting  ammunition.  I  soon  gath- 
ered from  Major  Borden  that  he  had  in  mind  particularly  .oO-caliber  powder ; 
and  while  he  did  not  mention  Cuba,  it  was  clear  that  he  was  referring  to  the 
shipment  by  the  Remington  Arms  Company  of  100,000  rounds  of  .50-caliber 
ammunition.  Major  Borden  advised  me  that  the  money  for  the  purchase  of 
150,000  pounds  of  .30-caliber  powder  had  come  about  in  this  manner.  After 
setting  aside  all  the  money  secured  from  the  Public  Works  last  year,  they  dis- 
covered they  would  have  a  slight  surplus,  and  therefore  it  was  decided  that, 
rather  than  turn  this  money  back  to  the  treasury,  they  would  utilize  the 
surplus  to  buy  what  material  they  could  for  the  next  fiscal  year's  consumption. 

I  discussed  generalities  with  Colonel  Wesson  and  Major  Zornig. 

K.  K.  V.  Casey,  Director. 

KKVC :  MH 


Exhibit  No.  1007 

[1 18S-U.  S.  Gov.  Gen.     MS-144] 

May  22,  1031. 
Mr.  T.  R.  Hanley, 

Leffal  Department. 

In  reference  to  negotiations  now  being  conducted  between  the  du  Pont  Am- 
monia Corporation,  and  a  national  of  a  foreign  friendly  government,  I  do  not  see 
any  necessity  at  the  present  time  of  notifying  either  the  U.  S.  State  Department 
or  Military  or  Naval  Intelligence  in  view  of  the  fact  that  the  negotiations  are 
confidential  from  a  commercial  standpoint. 

The  du  Pont  Company  and  its  subsidiaries  are  under  no  legal  or  moral  obli- 
gation to  convey  information  of  a  confidential  commercial  character  to  tlie 
U.  S.  Government.  It  is,  however,  our  custom  to  advise  them  of  such  matters 
at  such  times  as  it  is  discreet  to  do  so  and  always  before  the  information  bas 
been  made  generally  public. 

On  several  occasions  where  we  have  given  such  information  to  the  Govern- 
ment, they  have  always  thanked  us  and  mentioned  their  appreciation  of  the 
fact  that  we  had  given  them  information  when  under  no  obligation  to  do  so. 

While  I  am  firmly  convinced  that  any  information  given  to  Military  Intelli- 
gence or  Naval  Intelligence  would  be  regarded  and  held  as  confidential,  in  view 
of  the  delicacy  of  the  negotiations  at  the  present  time.  I  believe  that  no  men- 
tion should  be  made  until  the  other  party  of  this  negotiation  has  so  arranged 
their  affairs  as  to  render  the  dissemination  of  the  news  as  harmless. 

Aiken  Simons. 
AS : LCM 


1  Pencil  markings. 


2828  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Exhibit  No.  1008 

[File  34-Chinese  Government.     188-Pdr.  stored  at  Old  Hickory.     188-St  Julians  Credt. 

MS-67-A] 

D-4 

Septkmbeb  21,  1929. 
Mr.  W.  H.  O'GoRMAN, 

16  place  Vendome,  Paris,  France. 

Deab  Bill:  I  believe  Jack  Guenveur  has  written  you  of  the  cable  received 
from  Nick  this  morning,  announcing  his  success  in  getting  a  contract. 

Major  Casey  suggests  that  I  advise  you  that  we  believe  that  all  purchases 
for  the  Mukden  Arsenal  will  be  made  through  Nanking  in  the  very  near  future 
if  such  is  not  already  the  case,  since  Nanking  ali'eady  buys  for  all  the  other 
arsenals  and  the  tendency  of  the  Northern  Chinese  Government  to  adhere  to 
the  National  Government  is  becoming  stronger  as  time  goes  on. 

This  will  be  distinctly  advantageous  for  us,  in  that  it  will  simplify  the 
question  of  getting  export  permits  from  the  State  Department  and  will  tend  to 
concentrate  all  negotiations  with  the  Chinese  Government  into  the  hands  of  the 
Shanghai  and  Wilmington  offices. 

Major  Casey  was  in  Washington  yesterday  and  was  told  that  an  inspector 
general  has  been  appointed  to  look  into  the  matter  of  putting  the  powder  under 
water  at  Old  Hickory.  This  officer,  Col.  Louis  J.  Van  Schaick,  of  the  Inspector 
General's  Department,  was  put  on  the  job  by  Gen.  Summerall  and  not  by  the 
Secretary  of  War,  as  we  had  previously  understood. 

Col.  Van  Schaick  is  an  Infantry  officer,  who  knows  little  or  nothing  about 
powder  and  is  looking  into  the  question  as  to  whether  the  Ordnance  Department 
was  not  culpable  in  putting  the  powder  under  water.  He  has  also  asked  several 
officers  if  they  own  duPont  stock,  etc.,  so  that  the  investigation  appears  to  take 
the  nature  of  persecution  rather  than  an  inquiry. 

The  above  for  your  information.     Do  not  broadcast  it. 

A  fire  at  St.  Juliens  Creek  destroyed  128,000  pounds  of  powder,  which  we  had 
been  awarded  at  a  recent  sale,  but  fortunately  we  had  not  completed  the 
purchase,  so  that  we  are  not  losers  thereby. 

It  is  supposed  that  the  powder  itself  caused  the  fire,  so  that  we  are  doubly 
fortunate  in  not  having  taken  possession  of  it. 

Everything  is  going  very  smoothly  in  the  office,  but  we  will  be  very  glad, 
indeed,  to  see  you  when  you  get  back. 
Sincerely, 

Aiken  Simons. 

AS :  RVC. 


("Exhibit  No.  1009"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2683.) 


("Exhibit  No.  1010"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2685.) 


( "  Exhibit  No.  1011 "  appears  in  text  on  p.  2685. ) 


("Exhibit  No.  1012"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2686.) 


Exhibit  No.  1013 
[File :  MS-80-A  D-871] 

April  12,  1926. 
Col.  W.  N.  Taylor, 

//7  Avenue  de  VOpera,  Paris,  France. 

Dear  Sir  :  1.  Attached  please  find  confirmation  of  our  cable  no.  330.     You 

will  note  that  we  have  decided  to  let  Major  de  Lanoy  quote  direct  to  Poland 

through  Mr.  Klawe  on  the  chemical  warfare  project. 

2.  It  is  quite  essential  for  you  to  know  the  company's  attitude  toward  this 
project,  and  we  will  therefore  give  you  the  details  as  follows: 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY  2829 

3.  When  the  inquiry  was  first  received  from  the  Polish  War  Department, 
we  consulted  Major  de  Lanoy  and  asked  him  to  prepare  a  detailed  proposal 
for  submission  to  Poland,  either  directly  by  him  or  by  the  Du  Pont  Company, 
in  which  latter  case  De  Lanoy  was  to  act  as  our  technical  adviser.  We  also 
referred  the  matter  to  our  dyestufEs  department  and  asked  them  to  prepare  a 
proposal.  Our  dyestuffs  department  decided  that  we  were  not  in  possession 
of  complete  technical  details  which  would  enable  us  to  handle  the  Polish 
warfare  project,  and  that  unless  we  could  secure  the  complete  cooperation 
of  the  U.  S.  Ordnance  Department,  particularly  the  Chemical  Warfare  Sec- 
tion, it  would  be  useless  for  us  to  undertake  the  construction  of  the  chemical 
warfare  plant. 

4.  To  obtain  the  cooperation  of  the  War  Department  we  addressed  the 
Secretary  of  War,  wlio  in  turn  submitted  our  question  to  the  State  Depart- 
ment. After  many  weeks  we  received  a  reply  from  the  State  Department 
which  was  quite  evasive  and  left  us  in  the  same  position  that  we  were  when 
the  Polish  inquiry  was  received.  We  decided  that  we  could  not  get  a  firm 
assurance  of  cooperation  from  the  War  Department  because  of  the  position 
taken  by  tlie  State  Department,  and  tliougiit  it  best  to  let  Major  de  Lanoy 
proceed  and  submit  his  proposal. 

5.  We  have  addressed  the  Polish  War  Department  on  this  subject,  with 
copy  of  letter  to  you,  also  copy  to  Mr.  Klawe. 

6.  Major  de  Lanoy  is  willing  to  let  Mr.  Klawe  act  as  his  agent  in  this 
matter,  and  has  included  in  his  price  a  commission  of  5%  for  Mr.  Klawe. 
Major  de  Lanoy  will  send  his  proposal  to  Mr.  Klawe,  wlio  in  tuin  will  present 
it  to  tl;e  Polish  War  Department  in  De  Lanoy's  name.  Major  de  Lanoy  will 
write  Mr.  Klawe  in  detail  and  we  will  keep  you  posted  on  developments  from 
this  end.  If  De  Lanoy  is  awarded  a  contract  we  will  receive  no  comuiission. 
The  matter  will  be  handled  entirely  by  De  Lanoy  and  Klawe.  We  cannot 
afford  to  arouse  the  criticism  of  the  State  Department  because  you  are  familiar 
with  the  position  they  take  on  cliomical  v.'arfare  gases.  If  we  were  in 
possession  of  complete  technical  details  which  would  enable  lis  to  construct 
and  operate  the  proposed  chemical  warfare  plant,  we  would  undertake  the 
project  regardless  of  the  attitude  taken  by  the  State  Department.  Major 
de  Lanoy  seems  to  be  in  this  position  and  we  are  sure  no  criticism  will  be 
directed  against  him  for  technical  services  which  he  may  render  to  the 
Polish  Government. 

7.  We  regret  the  delay  occasioned  by  the  Government  Departments.  You 
appreciate  that  this  was  entirely  beyond  our  control,  and  that  we  could  not 
function  until  we  received  a  reply  from  one  or  both  of  the  Government 
Departments. 

Very  truly  yours, 

K.  K.  V.  Casbtt,  Director. 
WHO'G  :N 

P.  S. — Will  you  kindly  assign  code  words  as  follows : 

YCLZE— .50  cal.  gun. 

YCMAE — Chemical  warfare  plant, 

YCMCA— Major  S.  J.  de  Lanoy. 


Exhibit  No.  1014 

[D-867] 

April  5,  1926. 
Col.  W.  N.  Tatlor, 

^7  Avenue  de  V  Opera, 

Paris,  France. 
Dear   Sir:   We  acknowledge  receipt  of  your  cable    #412  and   confirm  our 
reply  #329. 

CHBJMICAL  WARFARE  PLANT — POLAND 

1.  As  soon  as  we  received  the  letter  from  the  Polish  War  Department  re- 
questing us  to  submit  a  proposal  on  the  installation  of  a  chemical  warfare 
factory  in  Poland,  we  conferred  with  Major  De  Lanoy  and  turned  the  matter 


2830  Mr-^TTTTONS    I]SrDirSTEY 

over  to  him.  He  in  turn  has  worked  up  a  detailed  proposal  which  has  been 
in  our  hands  for  several  weeks.  The  project  was  fully  discussed  with  our 
dyestuffs  department  and  it  was  decided,  from  a  policy  standpoint,  that  the 
du  Pont  Company  would  not  bid  on  the  project  unless  we  received  a  complete 
authorization  from  the  War  Department.  We  accordingly  addressed  the  War 
Department  and  asked  them  to  state  their  position  in  connection  with  the 
inquiry.  The  War  Department  in  turn  submitted  the  matter  to  the  State 
Department  and  no  decision  has  been  received  from  the  State  Department  as 
yet.  In  the  event  that  the  State  Department  takes  the  attitude  that  we 
should  not  bid,  we  will  turn  the  matter  over  to  Major  De  Lanoy,  who  will 
immediately  submit  a  proposal.  He  will  forward  the  proposal  to  Mr.  Klawe  and 
Klawe  can  act  in  his  behalf. 

2.  We  have  had  several  cablegrams  from  Mr.  Klawe  on  this  subject  and 
replied  to  him.  statin?  that  the  proposal  would  go  forward  about  March  15th. 
This  occurred,  however,  before  the  policy  of  the  du  Pont  Co.  had  been  deter- 
mined. The  submission  of  the  project  to  the  War  Department  has  greatly 
delayed  fm-warding  the  proposal  in  question.  It  is  hoped,  however,  that  a  deci- 
sion will  be  reached  before  the  end  of  this  week,  in  which  event  a  proposal 
will  go  forward  either  from  du  Pont  or  from  De  Lanoy. 

3.  We  regret  that  a  delay  has  occurred  in  connection  with  this  project. 
It  is  not  a  matter  for  the  smokeless  powder  department  to  decide,  and,  there- 
fore, we  are  obliged  to  await  the  pleasure  of  other  oflacials  of  the  company. 

Very  truly  yours. 

K.   K.   V.    Casey,   Director. 
WHOG/h 

("Exhibit  No.  1015"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2689.) 


("Exhibit  No.  1016"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2692.) 


("Exhibit  No.  1017"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2692.) 


("Exhibit  No.  1018"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2694.) 


Exhibit  No.  1019 
[File:   U.  S.  Goverumeut  Edgewood  Arsenal.  C.  W.  S.] 

January  26,  1929. 
Dr.  C.  M.   Stine, 

Chemical  Director. 
B  L  D  G. 

COOPE3RATION   WITH   CHEMICAL  WARFARE  SERVICE 

Confirming  informal  discussion  with  you  yesterday,  there  are  a  number  of 
reasons  why  our  contact  with  Chemical  Warfare  Service  should  follow  prin- 
ciples similar  to  our  contact  with  the  Ordnance  Department,  U.  S.  Army,  and 
Bureau  of  Ordnance,  U.  S.  Navy.  We  recognize  the  essential  difference  that 
for  the  present  there  is  prospectively  little  to  sell  to  Chemical  Warfare,  also 
that  the  company's  developments  in  fundamental  research  are  of  such  a  char- 
acter that  the  writer,  for  instance,  is  not  a  competent  judge  of  what  is  and 
what  is  not  important  to  the  other  industries  with  which  this  department  is 
not  connected;  and  hence,  our  suggestion  that  individuals  in  the  chemical 
department  and  the  company's  laboratories  be  careful  to  refer  all  these  ques- 
tions to  you  personally  before  passing  information  on  direct  to  individuals  from 
Edgewood  Arsenal  or  the  Chemical  Warfare  Service's  oflSces  in  Washington. 

It  is  also  appropriate  to  review  a  little  of  the  past  history  of  this  subject. 
In  February  1924,  question  was  raised  as  to  our  assisting  Dr.  Rossi,  an  impor- 
tant Italian  chemical  manufacturer,  with  technical  advice  in  the  erection  and 


MUISriTIONS   INDUSTRY  2831 

putting  into  operation  of  a  plant  in  Italy  for  the  manufacture  of  war  gases  for 
the  Italian  Government.  Mr.  Irenee  duPont  wrote  General  Fries  under  date 
of  February  4,  1924,  stating,  "  We  believe  the  duPont  Co.  should  not  undertake 
Vi^ork  of  this  sort  for  a  foreign  government  except  on  the  written  request  of 
the  Secretary  of  War  stating  that  it  is  done  in  the  interest  of  the  U.  S.  Govern- 
ment, and  in  the  present  case,  authorizing  the  Chemical  Warfare  Department 
to  give  us  such  assistance  as  they  feel  is  justifiable  to  aid  us  in  properly  doing 
the  work,  in  return  for  which  this  company  will  keep  the  Chemical  Warfare 
Department  posted  with  such  information  as  we  may  obtain."  No  answer 
was  forthcoming  from  General  Fries  for  some  time,  and  on  December  2d, 
Mr.  Ir^n^e  du  Pont  and  Mr.  A.  Felix  du  Pont  attended  a  meeting  in  the  oflBce 
of  the  Secretary  of  War,  at  which  were  present  Assistant  Secretary  of  War 
Davis,  General  Williams,  Chief  of  Ordnance,  and  Col.  Ferguson.  It  was  found 
that  after  the  matter  was  explained  to  Secretary  of  War  Weeks,  he  was 
entirely  in  sympathy  with  the  proposition  and  promptly  arranged  for  an 
interview  with  the  President.  The  entire  party,  with  the  exception  of  Col. 
Ferguson,  put  this  matter  up  to  Mr.  Coolidge,  who  promptly  grasped  the  basic 
principles  and  in  a  few  words  stated  what  practically  amounted  to  the 
*'  munitions  policy." 

Nothing  has  ever  been  done  in  connection  with  the  Italian  proposition,  but 
the  above  facts  are  given  you  as  a  guide  for  action  in  any  similar  problem 
that  may  arise  in  the  future. 

Referring  to  the  questions  raised  during  and  after  our  visit  to  Bdgewood 
Arsenal  of  last  week,  the  writer  endeavored  to  discuss  this  subject  with  Gen. 
Fries,  bearing  in  mind  the  statement  of  Major  Prentiss  that  he  intended  to  dis- 
cuss with  Gen.  Fries  an  interchange  of  reports  of  research  work  between  the 
duPont  Co.  and  Edgewood  Arsenal. 

We  realized  from  our  experience  as  outlined  in  the  first  paragraph,  that 
such  an  interchange  should  be  primarily  through  the  AVashington  Office  rather 
than  direct  with  Edgewood  Arsenal.  Major  Prentiss'  statement  on  this  subject 
came  after  you  had  left  Edgewood  Arsenal. 

We  have  taken  the  initiative  and  consider  it  entirely  in  order  to  invite 
properly  accredited  representatives  from  Edgewood  Arsenal  to  visit  our  labora- 
tories, and  specifically.  Major  W.  H.  Lyon,  Chief  of  the  Technical  Division 
of  the  Chemical  Warfare  Service  in  Washington,  was  invited  to  come  to  Wil- 
mington. We  have  in  mind  that  you  will  issue  proper  instructions  to  the  lab- 
oratories prior  to  any  visits  made  by  representatives  of  the  C.  W.  S.  We 
assume  that  you  will  advise  your  assistants  of  the  essentials  of  this  situation, 
so  that  in  your  absence  the  fundamental  principles  will  be  adhered  to,  in  order 
to  protect  not  only  our  interests,  but  to  preserve  harmony  with  past  negotia- 
tions with  the  C.  W.  S. 


CIBH/h. 

We  consider  this  information  confidential. 


C.  I.  B.  Henning, 

Technical  Director. 


E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co. 
By  K.  K.  V.  Casey. 


("Exhibit  No.  1020"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2698.) 


("Exhibit  No.  1021"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2698.) 


("Exhibit  No.  1022"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2700.) 


("Exhibit  No.  1023"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2701.) 


2832  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Exhibit  No.   1024 

[84— Holland  Govt.     *  Ms-49] 

June  25,  1930. 
Chief  of  Ordnance,  U.  S.  Army, 

Munitions  Building,  Washington,  D.  C. 
Dear  Sir:  1.  Under  authority  contained  in  section  123  of  tlie  National  De- 
fense Act,  tl)e  du  Pont  Company  requests  the  loan  of  one  75  INI/M  gun,  model 
1916-1917,  for  the  purpose  of  making  tests  to  perfect  FNH  powder. 

2.  If  this  loan  is  approved,  the  du  Pont  Company  agrees  to  furnish  a  satis- 
factory bond  in  such  sum  as  the  chief  of  ordnance  may  deem  desirable  and  to 
save  tlie  United  States  Government  harmless  from  loss  or  damage  to  the  gun, 
as  well  as  paying  sucli  sum  as  the  chief  of  ordnance  may  deem  sufficient  to 
cover  the  wear  and  tear  on  the  gun,  depending  on  the  number  of  shots  fired 
during  its  loan  or  any  other  proper  Vv'ear  and  tear  incident  to  its  use. 

8.  In  making  this  request,  the  company  ft^ls  justified  since  on  previous  occa- 
sions and  under  provisions  of  the  above  act,  equipment  has  been  borrowed 
from  other  services. 

Tours  very  truly, 

K.  K.  V.  Casey,  Director. 
AS : LCM. 


Exhibit  No.  1025 
[*  144,  Polish  Govt.     MS-80-A.     D-2285] 

April  23,  1931. 
Colonel  W.  N.  Taylor, 

16  Place  Vendome,  Paris,  France. 

Dear  Sir:  Regarding  the  discussion  that  Mr.  Singer  had  with  Mr.  Gray  of 
the  U.  S.  Sperry  Ordnance  Company,  Mr.  Gilmore,  vice  president  of  the  com- 
pany, together  with  INIr.  Gray  had  an  interview  with  us  this  morning.  Mr. 
A.  Felix  du  Pont,  Mr.  Porter,  Mr.  Bradway,  and  the  writer  were  present. 

It  was  practically  agreed  that  there  were  certain  advantages  to  be  gained 
by  cooperation  between  the  companies.  They  have  discovered  that  it  is  diffi- 
cult to  sell  fire-control  equipment  without  the  gun  and  it  is  likewise  difficult 
to  sell  the  gun  without  the  ammunition.  In  our  case  we  have  likewise  found 
it  would  be  to  our  advantage  to  be  tied  up  with  a  proposition  involving 
complete  equipment. 

The  question  of  securing  a  gun  from  the  Ordnance  Department  and  shipping 
it  to  Poland  was  found  to  be  neither  feasible  nor  desirable.  It  was,  therefore, 
agreed  that  the  Sperry  Company  would  immediately  start  work  to  induce  a 
Polish  mission  to  visit  this  country  at  the  expense  of  the  Sperry  Company  to 
witness  a  demonstration  of  the  3  "  A.  A.  equipment  and  other  material,  if 
deemed  necessary.  The  Ordnance  Department  have  already  agreed  to  put 
on  such  a  show. 

The  advantages  of  this  method  are  manifold;  in  the  first  place,  we  can  rest 
assured  that  the  tests  will  be  of  such  nature  as  to  be  at  least  favorable  to  the 
material  being  demonstrated.  The  personnel  handling  the  gun  or  guns  will 
be  thoroughly  familiar  with  their  job.  The  mission  would  likewise  be  given 
an  opportunity  to  visit  the  different  plants  involved  in  the  manufacture  of  this 
equipment,  which  would  naturally  include  the  du  Pont  plant  and  the  fact  that 
the  tests  would  be  official  tests  of  "the  U.  S.  Government  could  be  played  up 
tremendously. 

The  expense  of  a  mission  coming  to  this  country  would  be  considerably  less 
than  the  expense  involved  in  securing  a  gun  and  shipping  the  same  to  the 
other  side,  together  with  the  proper  personnel  to  handle  it,  as  well  as  the  other 
personnel  involved  in  the  negotiation. 

With  Pilsudski's  return  to  Warsaw  the  conditions  may  be  more  favorable 
than  they  were  heretofore. 


♦  Pencil  markings. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2833 

By  next  Monday  the  Sperry  people  expect  to  have  a  considerable  amount 
of  data  collected  and  on  Tuesday  the  28th,  we  expect  to  receive  word  from  the 
Sperry  people  as  to  what  has  been  accomplished. 

Mr.  Gray  is  sailing  for  Europe  on  Wednesday  the  29th.  We  cannot,  as  yet, 
advise  the  steamer  as  his  reservations  have  not  been  made  but  promptly  upon 
receipt  of  siune  we  will  cable  you.  He  expects  to  arrive  at  Cherbourg  and 
proceed  directly  to  the  du  Pont  office  in  Paris.  He  will  be  prepared  to  discuss 
cooperative  efforts  along  lines  to  our  common  interest  and  will  be  particularly 
anxious  to  discuss  with  Colonel  Taylor  the  question  of  a  proper  agent  for  the 
Sperry  Company  in  Warsaw. 

The  basis  of  the  willingness  of  the  Ordnance  Department  to  render  this 
assistance  is  predicated  on  the  general  theory  that  it  is  necessary  for  the 
national  defense  to  do  everything  possi))le  to  help  maintain  private  manufac- 
ture in  the  ammunition  game.  Therefore,  any  assistance  they  can  render  to 
bring  this  about  they  will  do  but  they  are  not  interested  in  a  proposition  to 
establish  the  manufacture  of  Army  ordnance  material  in  foreign  countries 
unless  they  merely  represent  a  small  proportion  of  the  number  to  be  manu- 
factured in  the  United  States.  In  other  words,  the  facilities  for  manufacture 
are  the  plain  objective  of  the  Ordnance  Department. 

The  Sperry  people  feel  that  the  experience  we  have  had  in  European  negotia- 
tions is  quite  a  factor  and  our  participation  in  any  such  arrangements  would  be 
limited  to  the  extent  of  the  material  to  be  furnished  by  us. 

If  there  are  any  further  developments  along  this  line,  we  will  advise  you 
promptly. 

In  view  of  the  fact  that  Mr.  Singer's  letter  was  hadwritten,  we  are  enclosing 
a  typewritten  copy  of  his  letter  for  your  files. 
Very  truly  yours, 

K.  K.  V.  Casey,  Director. 
KKVC  :MH 


("Exhibit  No.  1026"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2706.) 


Exhibit  Na   1027 

Trejasuky   Depaktment, 
Washington,  Dec.  10,  1934. 
My  Deiar  Mr.  Chairmajs^  :  In  reply  to  your  letter  of  October  31,  1934,  regard- 
ing appropriations,  allotments,  and  expenditures  of  the  War  and  Navy  Depart- 
ments for  the  fiscal  years  1912  and  1934,  there  are  enclosed  herewith : 

Exhibit  I,  showing  appropriations  and  expenditures  from  appropriations 
for  the  War  and  Navy  Departments  from  1912  to  1934. 

Exhibit  II,  showing  allotments  by  Public  Works  Administration  for  War 
and  Navy  Departments  and  expenditures  from  such  allotments  during 
the  fiscal  year  1934. 

By  direction  of  the  Secretary: 
Very  truly  yours, 

Herbert  E.  Gaston, 
Assistant  to  the  Secretary. 
Honorable  Gerald  P.  Nye, 

Ohaiivnan  Special  Committee  Investigating  the  Munition  Industry, 

United  States  Senate. 
ends. 


2834 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 


Exhibit  No.  1028 

Statement  showing  allotments  to  the  War  and  Navy  Departments  authorized 
by  the  PuMic  Works  Administration  to  Nov.  28,  193Jf,  and  expenditures  from 
those  allotments  during  the  fiscal  year  1934 


Allotments 

authorized  by 

P.  W.  A. 


1934  expendi- 
tures 


WAE 

Air  Corps  (airplanes) - - 

Rivers  and  harbors 

Flood  control-. - 

Seacoast  defenses - 

Insular  affairs. 

National  Guard-.. 

Ordnance,  ammunition,  and  equipment. 

Quartermaster  Corps,  housing  and  technical  construction  and  motoriza 

tion 

Panama  Canal. - 

Other.. 

Total 

NAVY 

Aeronautics 

Engineering 

Ordnance - .-- 

Secretary's  oflJce  (machine  tools) 

Yards  and  docks .- 

Vessels 

Other 

Total 


$7,  500, 000.  00 

276,  604,  752.  84 

68,  003,  000. 00 

7,  000,  000.  00 

1,  500,  000.  00 

2,  238,  624.  00 

8,  679,  491.  00 

72,641,233.50 

1, 000,  000.  00 

801,811.00 


$14,  922. 23 

50,  232, 192. 88 

24, 834, 446. 65 

2,  416,  590. 85 

239, 160.  37 

1, 113,  212.  62 

4,  446, 489.  52 

27,  303, 122.  62 
808,  522. 12 
518,  520.  00 


445, 968, 912.  34 


111,927,179. 


7,  500, 000.  00 

712,  500.  00 

330,  225.  00 

2, 850, 000.  00 

27,  636,  072.  00 

238, 000, 000.  00 

385, 662. 00 


504,  391. 14 

14,700.29 

211,345.33 

1, 084, 864. 15 

11, 396,  446. 82 

23, 457, 056. 19 

117, 413. 93 


277, 414, 459, 00 


36,786,217.85 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


2835 


Ph 

w 


p  8 


O3N00— ^'— "CCOi'-'C'lCSCO^C^C^t'.fOiCiCO'^COC^CO 
CC*00^-CO»00>00005C<ICO^^OCOOOCO'— i«'-tCCi 

iCfO'-'C^ecooi>'r^csoo(NiooioiGOcocc"tih-cOTt<i^ 

C^OOOt-C^liO'— "•-•CCOSCOt— Ot'.iO'Tl'fOC^COCCOCOCO 

r-T  i-T  oT  h-*"  io~  CO  oo* '^"  00  ^-' GO  lo  c^  o  cT  ic  CO  c*f  "^*  "»r^ 

.— iCCt^00CCC^aiCD»O»O'^*OO00O00C'^C0C)0OT— 'OgO 

^  i-Toi"  lO 


CCOOO^OOOoOiOiMOOC^-^OOOCDcoosOO.— iiOt-GOO 
I^Ocii— Io6cDiCOiOCCOicj6(£5t^cOioC>^CO^»Ot~^fO 
«OiCCSOO'J^r^OOiOCOOSiMCCfC^COr-'«;GCO(N*Ci 

05cc^o"G<^^^odu5"o^^-^uo"cDl^lCodo'c^'■•^OicTcol^^  tp'o 
CO  ^  ■^^  o  CO  i--*  00  r-^  ^  "^  ^*  ^^  ■gT  c^  o  w"  u^  ^  c^  o  00  c^  •"-T 

COt^-— ^C^•-'Ol•-^:0l0■^"^'X5O000l^J^C0O00Q0t^^-l>• 
r-l>-H(NCSlr^t^^r-l1-Hr-^r-t,-l,-HC0        OC505CO 

«^  »   » 


Ht^iCiO-^OOC^O^t^C^OCOCO 


_.-'-'r0CSt^05CDiO05«OC^C^I--C , 


r-i^c^ccoo'^'-'OcD'— 'OIX5CC 


:0  I^  !>•  O  05  CS  CO 


ioh^TPOcocoooooc^coioot^oo>o»ot-cscor^O'-<b^ 

lOi— <■— 'CDtDCO00OSl~^CMCOt-*00'— lOCOOOCOOoOC^^C^ 


c6'«*^OOOC^iOcDOiOO:iOiO:bCOrtH(Mf^C^^'-iCiOt^CO 

o --r  ^  o  c^  o --H  oT  as"  oT  r-^  tt  co' 00  oT  c<r  c5"  oT r-^ oT "^  i-T o" 

€/3^,-Mr-l.— (T-Hr- IfH  r-t  i-<C<l.— 1i-HCSCO^CO 


S3  6  S  c3  CO 
■3  Oca  i.-" 

ti-r^  a  9 


O  V 

at;  « 

O  »  W 


ocsccooiO'^c^cooifOiooicoocsc^ocsiO'^cocor^ 

00O5»O'-tO5C^»OCS'-<OSO3COCSCOTj*cO0000"^C^'— 'OO 


t^'^csioc^iiocc'*coc^r--cot-*c^OcO'-io>'- '■TfC^Ot- 

O00C^'-'CS--iTjiC1iO"^05(MC^C^C0O00iOO--t0S'^'— ' 
.-HCOcOOOOO"^OiO»00-^C^"^COCTlCO*OiOC001iOOOCO 


CD-— '"^COiOOOCi-^COOiC^COC^OCOOOCOr-OCOi— «TfCO 
^i-tc000iO00C-100QC1OSOiCOCSI--b-OS00iOCO5JI^'^ 
Oi^OOCSCOCOTj^COO'^OCOC^ODOOOiOTjH-tt^OOaXNCO 


CO00CO^^<^CO00»OO5C3iO'— "COOOOSCOOiOCSeDOiCSiO 
»O--<r-iCSO00t^<©<Ct^Ir*»O-^W5Tt<C0C^C0C0'*Tt<Tj«e0 


C0O05C<I00(N00'^^(NC<IO0SC0t^(Nt~^'^C0C0Ot*^ 
^(N'^«D(N'-<(N0S«O<NCSc00iW00C0»O00"0»-<t^<-iO 


<  i-H  CO  iQ  O  Ci  00  -^ 


H|>.t--i0t>-t^'O»0iO 


T-lOOCDOO'*iOOO^OOO(M(>»OCOCOCT)IM'«:J^OOr^CO'-H(r4 
,— iiOOr^OSCO«D'-HOO'-"'*OTlHCOCOOOOCDiCrOOCSOOt-^ 


C^  'rf  ^  '—  Ci  00  00 


,0w^cot^0'-'coooor^«300" 


^t^co'^coooos'— tcscO'-'C^O'— 'Oocir^o-— toot-r>- 

r-H(MCOCOCO(NiMCMC^C^^'*^--**'^^-"^ ^^.^-.  —  — 


TJ<  CO  (M  t^  ■-( 


OOOOCOOiCOr^COCOOSO'— <000--'0300CO'«**CDO^CO 
COOtOOOOO'— >COCOCDOOCDCOC^O'XCOascOCO^OOOI~* 


COiO'-H'^iO.->OCO'-»t--OOOOr^CCiMCOO'^OOCO'— I 

cO'-i<Nt^ooi:o.-«'<}<tr:)0--HOioi:^cocD'^co<M-<j*c^'^j'« 

CO"^"— 'C0»-HCOC0C00000»OU0c00iOiiOO'«*^05C0CD0S0S 


COC^OOOsOu^Ol»OTt<OlO"— 'O'^J'-^OOfOC^OcOO^t^ 

r-ooiooi050ic^oocsc0'— "Oioor>-5D'-<'— "oooor-cooo-^ 

C^i0t^r^0si>''!tC0C0C0C^"tiOCi'^0000OC^'«J*OOI>- 


■^"lO-^t^-^COOt^'^'-'iOOiOS-^'.OCOC^COOiOO'^Tj^OS 


cDt^Oib-t^cDr^cocOTpioiotcoir 


eo'^Tf--*''**''<j*cocoeocococo^-^ccoiiO-^' 


■^  OO  00  OSOSOS 


00Tt«CDC00iC0r~-r^C0CDOTt<rt*00OlC0CSe0000S00C0t^ 
COOCOOOOOCOCD-^CDr^CO'^'-^OOOi^»OCSOOCOCH^5D 

r^*  c4  1-1  CO  00  oi '— *'  "^  o  ^  ;d  CO  CO  o  •^'  ■^'  CO  00*  CO  CO  Tt*  lO  c^ 
oor-.t^csot^oO"^ooc^coi— iooo50t--CNiO'^oO'-'r---t^ 

OCCiTfOTj^OiO>OOOOOOl'-HT}'cC>OOiO'*^t^'— lOiOSC^ 


COr^OiCO'-<O5'-HOS<©CDt-»OiOCO:DO5CSr-C0CO00t^t>» 

r>-t-i^ooOiooi>-roc^ioO'-ic^"^iooscooocs^oO'-'ooc^ 
osa>'d<©^i-Hioooot^oi>*cc^ooooot^'^ooot^co 


,-HCC-<t^'-H»OOOMCO'^^^C^'-''-«05'+*C'10iTt<.-«COCOi-H 


€^       CO  w  ^  ^ 


CO  ''t^  CO         ^^ 


SOOQOOQOQC0Ot>.CDO 


•  lOiMOt^OOOOOOt^XcOOO'-lQOOiO-^O 


iMCDCOCOCDt^CS-HtO 
COOi-^-^t^OOOCOO 

-H  tC  lo  c^"  o  t-^  "-J  i"^  oi 

CO  OO  r-t  ' ""       " 


8S: 


C5C0O-^t^»-i01'-i-^X>C^h-C0X>' 
>rti'^iOiO^-iO(MOt^000000t^Xi 
(NI^COCOt^COcOOOOir^iOCOOOtM' 

r  CO  00  iC  r^  »C  h-T  CO  i>r  CD -^  ^^ ' 

*  CT>  UD  OS  =0  CO  (N  ■ ...     ,     - - 

jt^lOi-tOOiOt^lCt^OSCOOOCO^iM-^ 

^*'oi"cD'"t^i 
5  -*  Tt*  05  1 

1  CO  coco  CO  CO  ■ 


5  r-  1— '  Oi  O  lO  ^ 

50  i-H  t^  COQO  C 


^0000'-<»OCOOOt^O 
tCDC^COiO-^OlC^OiC- 


CNOOOcOOiOCt^'^C-     . -- 

COCDCDiOiOOCOiOCOCO-^Tt^OSOS 
CO  M*  ^'  ^  ^  ^  CO  CO  C~  ""  "  '"  '" 


COiOrr 
OO  ^  lO 


CO  Tf  t^  ^  O  00 
O  00  t^  05  0i  Ci 


'^C0C^'-'O050Qr^CD»O'^fC0(N^Q -  - 

COCOCOCOCOC^c5(N(MCS)C^I<NC^!N?5f-H^--*'-''-'i-i 
Oi  ^  ^  ^  Oi  Oi  Oi  Oi  Oi  Oi  Oi  Oi  Oi  Oi  Oi  Oi  Oi  Oi  Oi  Oi  Oi 


COC^ 

OSOi 


'39 
a® 


OS'S 

■sgs 

aPTS 
o  »  a 

0)  a  ® 
a  a  a 

g   3    « 

p  p  g 

a)  ©T3 

«  O  3 

3  3  « 


2836 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


5  fl 


^ 


s>  2 

-MO 

°  a  6 

1— • 

gsts 

f^ 

ni 

g^.^ 

> 

a  C3-W 

no 


S  6  9  c3  M 

rt  o  CO  o  ta    . 

013  O         g"" 

D,0  S  m  gi 


"l-i ,  g 


&5 


OOOSiOGO'-^OOOOIr^OlCOOlO'-'Trtr'OOOOOKNtO^^O 

Tt^"  CO  lo  CO  o  CO  c^  cxT  1-H*  irT  oT  cT 'Tt*"  o  o  »o  i>r  GO  CO  ^ 
oooot^"*aooco^«3<McoGnt--Oi'^t^Tj*oocvj-*a>oo 

O-— •CCC^'^r-^CIC-JitOCO'-HiOf— OOOOrJ'i-coor-iOOCC 

i-H*  CO -^  QO  lo  «d"  c^ '^  ^' 'to -tj^  c^  00  r^  c^  oT  cT  od  »o  c^  r  o -^  o 

O-^iQOr^CDCOC^'-lC^C^C^iO'^CO— It— iOlO-^-'t^COCO 
COCOCOCOCOCOfOCOCOCOCOCO^«3'©OCO!M--t.-ii-i.--r-« 


(NcDOioo^iorPO'-'foaor-os'-HOsoicooo-^ai-^ioai 

COt-t'.'XOSOOOGOOt-QOOlCC'— t'-HCOOO'-it-.TrC^"^'— ' 

lo  CO*  '^'  o  o  co'  -^  CO  oi  GO  rH  ^^  r-.*  ^*  o  CM  t-^  c4  Tt^*  05  OS  o  o 
t— a>--<cococor-r-05cOf-Hi:oioOiCsCNOiOi'JDr-.ocsi— 

i-lOlGOCO'-tCO'— '^t-l-COOcOT^COC^COOOir-^CM^ 

r  c4^  o  o  o  c^  *j^  o  ■--"  :d  i^  go"  oT  lo  cT  r -^  C""!  GO  00 


COOSCDt— OOCOOcO-^GOt 


3  GO  "X)  CS  ■^  GO  C 


OcO'—'rooo-- "cooGOdOOosGOOr•-»oco^-•Ol■■ 


GO'-'OlOl--":lOr 


'OiOCaOJOSCCC-Cl-TfCSiOCOO't* 


GOCCCO-^Tf-^iM'-Hr-HC^.—  Q0»Ot— COOOOiOlCO-^UOiOiO 


-*coT*<(^^-HO'*■^lOOslOco'^^'-<coal^-ocoGOcO"^J^(M 

lOt— O000i0aiOTt*!MC0^Oai'©Tt<0iO<M0iCDUDI>05 

oi  ic  c<i  GO  "*'  CO  OS  GO  CO  oi  r^  c^  •-'  05  c^i  ^-^  t^'  o  cs  to  (id  •^"  c^' 

O-^GOCi— tCOCOCDOl"—  COCiOiO^Or-C^OCMCOOOOO-^ 

•^QOGOooOGOOi— iGor-cO'-'^coot-t— '^^ooI:-^^t-- 
l^  31"  co" --r  o  t'T  T-^"  io  r^  ^cT  CO  CO  cc  c5"  ^^  c^  o  oT  CO  ■^"  oT --T  .-T 

O-^COOt-rOCOCOCOOO^OiOTfOtOO'Tj'OOOS^-CD'OO 
-^t^Oi'-'tN^-^tN^CO'-HW'M-^COCO'-'t-OO'-'OSt-'-'-^ 


.-H  C^  CM  C^l  (N  C 


i(M«coeoco^*'t--^<' 


CC»O'-Hi-4!OC0t--.t— CDCOC^OSt— O—^OSCOCOiOCiOS  (--■«*< 

co-^c^or-oOGOt— cooiC'^Tt^lOor-ooo^-05co»oco^- 
^'odcoto^^I<'--^u^^i:i.-;coc4•o•^odcjco^^o■^*cocdo 

C^Tt<r-Tt*0"^oaO'^»o-^<:oc^'Mcooo<0"^co(NcDoO'^ 

OSt-COCOC^-'J^OGOCMCOOS'^OOlCOiO^asiMCOCOt^lN 


coocot-Oio-t'--^o^oo>coaiOTfCMcooiroGOcoco 

lO-— 'GOOGOr— COCOCOGOtOCSCSCOt— GOCOC^t-CDC^ICOO 
■Tt^CO^'-Ht— rJ4i000CM'^C0-^O'<**C0»OOasOC0t--^C0 

CD  od"  oT  cT  oa"  CO  00  CO --r  otT  tp"  cd"  co"  (n' CO  CO  CO  T)^  ^^  oT  ^  oT  oT 

CO'^fOCO-^-^COCOCCCO'OCC^O'^COiOiOCOCOCOCMCN 


osu3GOooio»oi>-(Noso^cO'^a>^oooo>Tt<r-'t*'t-o 

COi-tt^-^i— •I^.t-OiCncDTfCNt-Tt^COCOcOOSOCSOiCOOi 

o^cood^dcocdai•-Hcdldcd^^oocdcdcDco*rf^'!:dosTf* 

GO-— 'GOO^CO-^-^"^CDCOOO(Nt^"^t--C^"^'*COas— '05 
'MCMCC03'— 'COOi-^00»O  —  — "OOC^J^'-''— '00— 'COOiCNOS 


■-*— iCM— ♦■-^oocoor-'^t^or^coasoiocooiioc^coto 

Oirt^—'OS-^CO-^^Hai'— '  :00(NOCDO'— 'CDOOOCOQCSI 


O'^-^iOOCSCMOS'X'-HCSGOCM^OCO'^t— (NCOOC 


lCO'N00»C-^-^OiI'--C^1'— <C01C 


>  o  Oi  t—  r-  *i* 


iTfiOiOiOTtiTt'-^-^COCS-^CMCOOOlt-CO'O^-^'*-^ 


H  CM  :s  <N  CO  r-H 


oocc--ir- ioo-:^t-r-cocMGOt-a3r-G005r-cocO'rt<osGor- 
(McooocM»ot-'<foajCM.-Hr-a50t-^iciO'r^cMaoiOTt* 

CO  CO  !^  CM  00  ■^'  OO*  CO'  CM  CO  CO  •-<  CM*  r-H  oo'  O  TiH  -^*  TjH  -H  r^  CM*  GO 
--ir»<X)OCM'*Oi— 'COCOcOCOCOiOCMGOt--00»C>I>.TfCM— < 
^GOOCOOCOOi^^OOOOCOCMCM^OCOO'— (lOiOCOCM 

o  CO  CO  CO  cm' CO  »o  o  CM  o  C'f  cd —^  GO  o  CM  CM*  00  1^  t>r  (^f  rC  o 
— <cot—  ooiococooi'OOCM'— ^r-coxoi—aiiOGOO-— I 
cooci'-tr-ir-.Tjit— r-.eoco>oco^iOcoot--ocooiooco 

o  cm' bC"  oT  oi" -^  o  "^r  TjJ"  CO  to  o  cT  CO  o  ro  CO  o  CO  o -^  CO  o 

-— iCOr— COr-OlCMCMCMr'.C^OOO'O'—'OiOCMtOiOTPCMCO 
COCOCOCOCO:OCOCOCOCMCOCO'-t^"*Oit--CDCO>-t'— li-ti— (1— I 


COCO'-HiOGOTt<t--r-COCMGOt^CMt^OTfCMCOOh* COt-00 
CMC00005»Ot-*-^O0SC^'-''— fOCOOiCDr-tOJiOCMCOCOT}* 

■  Tji  00  - 

I—  O  C 

-^  ^  t 


._      -     .    _J— 'CM— HOO'^COCOCMCOCOOi'^OlCMCOClOir— -H 
tJOCOl-'-OOOGO'^COtOO'— ■C35»OiOOih^— *00»OCMTt^tO 


SOiOCOCOCOCM-— 'CMcOCOCMCOt^CO-^ 
CO  I^ --h"  OO  O  cm"  "^  CO  Os"  CT  id"  CD  CO  "-T  CM*"  CM*" —»"  ■-:*?  tC  CO  c^ 

.. .  .  _  —  .^  j^         ^         J.J  ^  J_         QQ         ^ 

■ 1  T-H  r-<  O  ^  TT 


■*CMr*I-OSOCOCMGOOSCMOOi 

Olr-icOcDOiOCOt— OOCOCMCMGOTfOSCO' 


>t^OCMCO^"-HOOCMCOCOiOCOOiiCf-iCS'-t         ,-h 


CM         CM         CO  ^  00  Ol 


OOOcpOQOOOOOOt-^O00iC»Ot— cor-CO'-HOS 
OOOClOOOOOOOOC0T}400U0'^i003ai»OCM0S 

Or-*cdcor-^CM*r-^ido6i^ooioiTPodtduO'--*r^adod»dcD 

CO-^OJOS-^CD'Ot-r-CMiOCOl-aiCMOOGOOl^'-'t-CO 
.-Hi-HiOT-HCMcOOiOlCOCOCMCOOCir— '^'^("^COCMi— •■^— H 

t^  cd"  — r  »o --h"  CO  ^*  ^  CM  00  t-^  ^^  CO  cd"  r>r  oT  — r  CO  05  Ti-"  o  lo  00 

cOOOOCOCOCOCOcOOasO-^CMOioOCO'— tCMt— osost- 
C0C»■-'OOCM-^O00■^^OC000-HlOCM0>C0O00■^OCM 

oT QQ  o  cm"  cm"  rjT 00  CM  CM  ^^  tC  CO  iQ  O '»t"  ^ '^  *^ '^'^  I ^  "^  cd"  oT 

oo5coaocotOr-tcMOr-aaosc^'*CM(3iOi'-HiO'^'*'CMCM 

COCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCMCM(N'^'*CDCD»OCOi-t^— "-''-t 


•^COCM^OOSOOt-CD»Ort'COCM--'OOiOOr-CD'OTPCOCM 
CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CM  CM  C -'.-.*,-,*. 


2  ^ 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2837 

Exhibit  No.  1030 
[•Ms-lOO-D,  Ms-51,  188-10,  154-Russian  Government.     S-171] 

Wilmington,  Del.,  April  7,  1932. 

WASHINGTON,   D.   O.,   APRIL   G,    193  2 

Called  by  appointment  on  General  Hof  to  discuss  House  Joint  Resolution 
No.  282  introduced  into  Congress  by  Representative  Fish  of  New  York  pro- 
posing a  resolution  whereby  the  United  States  Government  would  join  all 
other  nations  in  renouncing  the  sale  or  export  of  arms,  munitions,  or  imple- 
ments of  war.  Since  Mr.  Fish  has  introduced  somewhat  similar  resolutions  on 
several  other  occasions,  the  Ordnance  Department  had  not  taken  the  above 
very  seriously  and  was  not  aware  that  it  had  been  reported  out  of  committee 
and  put  on  the  House  calendar. 

General  Hof  called  up  Colonel  MiicFarland  of  the  office  of  the  Assistant 
Secretary  of  War  and  invited  his  attention  to  the  above,  at  the  Same  time 
calling  attention  to  a  letter  which  The  Assistant  Secretary  of  War  had  written 
to  Mr.  Morin  under  date  of  March  6,  1928,  protesting  against  House  Joint  Res- 
olution No.  183  of  somewhat  similar  purport.  General  Hof  suggested  that 
with  slight  modifications  the  above  letter  would  serve  the  purpose  of  the 
present   time. 

At  General  Hof's  sug;:resti(m  called  on  Colonel  MacFarland  and  discussed 
the  matter  with  him.  He  also  was  not  a^^■al■e  that  the  resolution  had  come 
out  of  committee. 

Called  on  Admiral  Larimer,  Chief  of  the  Bureau  of  Ordnance,  United  States 
Navy  and  discussed/  the  same  matter  with  him.  Admiral  Larimer  called  up 
Captain  H.  K.  Cage,  Chief  of  the  Katerial  Division,  office  of  the  Chief  of 
Naval  Operations  and  called  his  attention  to  the  resolution  and  its  status, 
of  which  neither  of  these  officers  had  been  aware  until  their  attention  was 
called  thereto.  Captain  Cage  will  take  appropriate  action  to  have  the  bill 
opposed  on  the  floor  of  the  House. 

Called  at  the  office  of  Colonel  P.  J.  O'Shaughnessy  of  the  Ordnance  Depart- 
ment, who  was  in  Cleveland  at  that  time. 

Called  on  Lieut.  Leslie  R.  Groves  and  Mr.  McCray,  office  of  the  Chief  of 
Engineers  and  discussed  T.  N.  T.  demolition  blocks.  The  Corps  of  Engineers 
will  waive  tlie  departure  from  specifications  of  the  blocks  now  on  order  and  a 
reinspection  for  the  purpose  of  passing  them  has  been  ordered. 

Lieut.  Groves  desired  information  on  blasting  procedure  for  the  purpose  of 
revising  the  field  engineers'  demolition  kit.  This  will  be  covered  in  a  separate 
memorandum  to  the  technical  section,  explosives  department. 

Called  on  O.  N.  I.  and  discussed  the  Fish  Resolution  with  Captain  Baggaley. 
Captain  Baggaley  informed  me  that  the  State  Department  had  sent  for  ap- 
proval of  O.  N.  I.  tlie  du  Pont  proposal  to  erect  a  nitrogen  fixation  plant  in 
Russia.     O.  N.  I.  offers  no  objection. 

Called  on  G-2  and  discussed  with  Major  W.  H.  Simpson  and  Lieut.  Col.  J.  P. 
Marley  the  above  Russian  proposal.  It  would  appear  that  the  State  Depart- 
ment desires  much  additional  data  on  this  subject  and  has  made  frequent  calls 
on  G-2  and  the  Ordnance  Department. 

It  is  fortunate  that  this  proposal  had  been  mentioned  verbally  to  O.  N.  I. 
and  G-21  several  weeks  ago  and  it  is  to  be  regretted  that  tbe  military  sales 
division  is  not  kept  better  informed  of  du  Pont  Company  contacts  with  the 
U.  S.  Government  officials  in  Washington. 

Called  at  the  State  Department,  and  finding  that  Miss  Christenson  was  ab- 
sent on  sick  leave,  called  on  Mr.  Maxwell  Hamilton  for  the  purpose  of  sound- 
ing out  the  present  attitude  of  the  State  Department.  Although  nothing  of 
great  importance  developed,  it  is  believed  that  the  visit  was  opportune  and 
was  welcomed  by  the  State  Department. 

AiKEN  Simons. 
ASAKR 


*  Pencil  markings. 


2838  MUN-ITIONS  .INDUSTRY 

Exhibit  No.  1031 
[One  page  of  letter  only.      *Ms-178,  Ms-lOO,  Ms-lOO-D] 

Wilmington,  Delaware,  January  17,  193S. 
Confidential  Memorandum  to  Major  K.  K.  V.  Casey,  Director. 

PROPOSED  EMBAEGO  ON  THE  SHIPMENT  OF  MUNITIONS 

Colonel  Taylor  in  his  T-2554  of  December  28,  which  was  his  annual  report 
for  the  year,  made  some  very  interesting  comments  on  the  effect  of  disarma- 
ment in  Europe.  This  was  extracted  in  a  memorandum  dated  January  13, 
addressed  to  you  and  suflBcient  copies  of  the  memorandum  prepared  so  that 
they  could  be  handed  to  interested  officials  in  Washington. 

On  the  morning  of  Monday,  January  16,  I  called  on  Major  R.  D.  Brown, 
of  G-2,  handed  him  a  copy  of  the  memorandum,  and  asked  his  opinion  on  the 
situation.  Major  Brown  was  frankly  concerned,  and  since  the  authority 
requested  by  the  President  to  declare  an  embargo  on  munitions  had  been 
presented  to  the  Senate  in  the  form  of  a  bill,  and  this  bill  has  already  been 
reported  out  of  committee.  Major  Brown's  concern  is  justified. 

I  then  called  on  General  Moseley,  deputy  chief  of  staff,  and  after  waiting 
some  time  while  General  Moseley  was  in  conversation  with  General  MacArthur, 
the  chief  of  staff,  and  Mr.  Frederick  H.  Payne,  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War, 
General  Moseley  received  me  and  after  glancing  over  the  memorandum,  in- 
structed me  to  get  a  copy  in  the  hands  of  Mr.  Payne  at  once,  since  Mr.  Payne 
had  just  been  discussing  the  matter. 

I  then  called  on  Colonel  McFarland,  who  advised  me  that  it  would  not  be 
possible  for  Mr.  Payne  to  see  me  at  the  moment  but  that  the  memorandum 
would  be  placed  in  his  hands  at  the  first  opportunity,  and  that  Mr.  Payne 
was  much  interested  in  it. 

I  then  called  on  Captain  Ogan,  executive  officer  of  Naval  Intelligence,  and 
handed  him  a  copy,  requesting  that  it  be  brought  to  the  attention  of  the  Secre- 
tary of  the  Navy.  Captain  Ogan  informed  me  that  he  had  no  method  of 
getting  it  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Navy  and  advised  that  I  see  the  Chief  of  the 
Bureau  of  Ordnance.  Hence,  I  called  on  Admiral  E.  B.  Larimer  and  handed 
him  a  copy  of  the  memorandum.  He  promised  to  take  the  matter  up  with 
Admiral  W.  V.  Pratt,  Chief  of  Naval  Operations,  with  the  request  that  Admiral 
Pratt  bring  the  matter  to  the  attention  of  the  Secretary  of  Navy  and  indicate 
the  vital  need  of  maintaining  the  private  manufacture  of  arms  and  munitions 
in  this  country. 

Some  time  later  in  the  afternoon  in  the  hall  I  met  General  Hof,  Chief  of 
Ordnance,  U.  S.  A.     General  Hof  seemed  to  be  in  an? 

(S)     Aiken  Simons. 

*  Pencil  markings. 

("Exhibit  No.  1032"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2725.) 


Exhibit  No.  1033 

[File:  MS-IOO-D.     S-41] 

January  26,  1928. 
Washington,  D.  C,  January  25,  1928. 
It  had  come  to  our  attention  that  Representative  Hamilton  Fish,  of  New 
York,  had  introduced  resolutions  into  Congress  forbidding  the  shipment  of 
munitions  to  any  country  with  which  the  United  States  was  at  peace.  It  was 
desired  to  ascertain  if  this  bill  was  known  to  the  War  Department  and  if 
there  had  been  any  change  in  the  previously  announced  policy  of  the  War 
Department  to  encourage  the  private  manufacture  of  munitions  into  the 
United  States. 

I  called  on  Colonel  Standley  D.  Embick,  of  War  Plans  Division,  General 
Staff,  who  was  unaware  of  the  bill  but  advised  me  that  there  had  been  no 
announced  change  of  policy  on  the  part  of  the  War  Department. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2839 

I  called  on  Lieut.  Col.  William  B.  Wallace,  Executive  Officer  G-A,  General 
Staff,  who  knew  of  no  change  in  policy  but  arranged  to  have  me  meet  several 
officers  in  the  office  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War,  as  follows : 
Col.  William  P,  Wooten  (not  in). 
Major  Leonard  T.  Gerow. 
Major  Larry  B.  McAfee, 
who  discussed  the  matter  at  some  length.     While  we  were  talking,  Lieut.  Col. 
James  D.  Fife  came  in  and  continued  the  discussion.     I  learned  from  Colonel 
Fife  and  Major  McAfee  that  far  from  there  being  any  detrimental  change  in 
policy  of  the  War  Department  that  the  Secretary  of  War  had  strongly  urged, 
in  his  annual  report,  that  every  effort  be  made  to  encourage  private  manufac- 
ture and  had  recommended  changes  in  the  national  defense  account,  as  well 
as  sufficient  appropriations  to  permit  educational  orders  being  given  to  the 
private  manufacturers. 

The  matter  was  then  discussed  with  General  Williams,  Chief  of  Ordnance, 
who  had  not  seen  the  bill  but  did  not  take  it  very  seriously.  Since  Mr.  Fish, 
who  introduced  this  bill,  served  creditably  in  the  A.  E.  F.  and  was  promoted 
to  major,  it  is  considered  that  he  is  a  friend  of  the  Services,  and  it  is  possible 
that  his  purpose  in  introducing  these  resolutions  was  to  render  other  action 
ridiculous  or  ineffective. 

Lieut.  Col.  Perkins,  of  Military  Intelligence,  was  advised  of  the  proposed 
visit  of  Messrs.  Cowie  and  Strickland,  of  Nobel,  to  our  Carney's  Point  plant 
and  offered  no  comment  or  objection. 

The  Bureau  of  Ordnance,  U.  S.  N.,  had  not  yet  received  our  letter  of  January 
24th  in  reference  to  reprocessing  TNT  at  Yorktown.  When  the  matter  was 
discussed  with  Lieut.  Comdr.  Johnson  he  offered  no  objections  to  our  study 
and  informed  me  that  the  Bureau  of  Ordnance  would  probably  undertake  to 
reprocess  this  material  themselves.  He  asked  if  we  could  supply  second-hand 
graining  mills  for  TNT.  Mr.  Patterson,  of  Indian  Head,  informed  him  that 
we  had  in  surplus.  Comdr.  Johnson  advised  me  that  the  silk  and  black  powder 
shipped  to  St.  Juliens  for  use  in  the  Argentine  naval  charges  were  satisfactory 
and  that  we  would  be  advised  officially  in  a  short  time.  The  shipping  direc- 
tions for  the  tanks  and  crates  were  satisfactory  as  outlined  in  our  letter  to 
the  Bureau,  which  would  be  answered  at  once. 

I  had  been  previously  advised  by  Captain  Le  Breton,  U.  S.  N.,  that  permis- 
sion had  been  granted  for  Lieut.  Gomez  to  visit  Dahlgren  and  St.  Juliens  in 
connection  with  the  tests  of  Argentine  charges.  Letters  of  introduction  for 
Lieut.  Gomez  had  been  handed  the  Argentine  naval  attach^.  This  matter  was 
brought  to  the  attention  of  Comdr.  Johnson. 

Comdr.  Johnson  advised  me  that  he.  Captain  Pickens,  and  Mr.  Patterson 
were  anxious  to  visit  Deepwater  Point  and  Repauno  in  order  to  study  our 
laboratory  organizations.  He  was  advised  that  any  or  all  of  them  were 
welcome. 

The  Bureau  of  Ordnance  is  considering  the  installation  of  an  ammonia- 
oxidation  plant  at  Indian  Head,  so  that  a  visit  to  Repauno  will  be  very 
opportune. 

Called  on  Captain  Knox,  U.  S.  N.,  and  advised  him  that  Mr.  Burnell  Poole 
had  been  delayed  by  sickness,  so  that  his  picture  would  not  be  ready  for 
presentation  until  about  the  10th  of  February.  Captain  Knox  spoke  of  the 
desirability  of  having  a  presentation  ceremony  at  the  Naval  Academy  and 
giving  the  matter  proper  publicity.  I  informed  him  that  the  Du  Pont  Company 
would  not  desire  the  presentation  of  these  pictures  to  appear  in  matter  of 
advertising  publicity,  but  if  the  Navy  Department  desired  to  give  out  any 
information,  we  would  offer  no  objections  and  that  the  question  of  having  one 
of  the  Du  Fonts  come  to  Annapolis  to  make  a  presentation  would  be  brought 
to  the  attention  of  the  proper  authorities  in  the  Du  Pont  Company. 

Aiken  Simons. 
MH 


("Exhibit  No.  10.34"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2727.) 


("Exhibit  No.  103.5"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2728.) 


2840  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

;  Exhibit  No.  1036 

War  Departmeint, 
Office  Chief  Chemical  Warfare  Service, 

Washington,  D.  C,  February  7,  1928. 

Mr.  Ir^n^e  du  Pont, 

E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  and  Company,  Wilmington,  Delaware. 

My  Dear  Mr.  du  Pont:  On  January  25,  1928,  Mr.  Theodore  Burton,  of  Ohio, 
introduced  into  the  House  of  Representatives  a  joint  resolution  knovpn  as 
House  Calendar  136,  H.  J.  R.  183,  70th  Congress,  1st  session,  also  given  file 
number  report  492.  This  is  a  resolution  to  prohibit  the  exportation  of  arms, 
munitions,  or  implements  of  war  to  belligerent  nations.  Section  3  starts  out 
as  follows : 

"As  used  in  this  joint  resolution,  the  term  '  arms,  munitions,  or  implements 
of  war '  means —  *  *  *  13.  Poisonous  gases,  acids,  or  any  other  articles 
or  inventions  prepared  for  use  in  warfare." 

AVould  not  such  a  bill  encourage  the  radicals  and  communists  to  continually 
attack  the  United  States  in  its  commercial  relations  with  other  nations  when 
any  two  or  more  of  them  may  be  engaged  in  war? 

The  first  term  "  poisonous  gases "  may  be  applied  to  a  thousand  and  one 
articles.  For  example,  chlorine  was  the  first  gas  used  successfully  as  a 
poison  gas.  Its  effectiveness  is  such,  however,  that  before  the  end  of  the 
war,  it  was  abandoned  as  a  war  gas.  However,  it  is  the  basis  or  a  very 
important  element  in  nearly  all  of  the  so-called  "  poison  gases."  In  large 
quantities  against  untrained  troops,  it  may  still  be  highly  effective. 

Notwithstanding  it  is  classed  as  a  poison  gas,  it  is  one  of  the  most  widely 
used  chemicals  in  the  world  today.  Approximately  100,000  tons  of  chlorine 
gas  are  generated  per  year  in  the  United  States.  It  is  used  here  and  through- 
out the  civilized  world  in  purifying  water,  bleaching  paper  and  other  materials, 
reclaiming  gold,  and  for  numerous  lesser  chemical  operations.  It  would  be 
extremely  difticult  to  tell  in  any  particular  case  whether  chlorine  was  going 
for  war  purposes  or  not. 

Phosgene,  one  of  the  most  powerful  of  the  war  gases  used  effectively  in  the 
World  War,  is  used  in  making  dyes  and  certain  medicines. 

The  next  term  used  in  paragraph  13  of  the  joint  resolution  is  the  single 
word  "  acids."  That  includes  a  whole  host  of  important  chemicals.  They  may 
or  may  not  have  important  war  uses.  For  example,  carbolic  acid,  a  coal-tar 
product,  is  the  basis  of  many  disinfectants  and  of  many  medicines.  Treated 
with  nitric  acid,  it  becomes  picric  acid,  a  high  explosive.  If  chlorine  be  added, 
it  becomes  chloropicrin,  a  war  gas.  Picric  acid  is  also  a  dye  and  an  excellent 
treatment  for  sunburn. 

Nothing  but  continual  controversy  could  arise  in  trying  to  carry  out  the 
provisions  of  this  act.  The  latter  part  of  paragraph  13 — "  or  any  other  articles 
or  inventions  prepared  for  use  in  warfare  ",  is  so  all-inclusive  and  so  indefinite 
as  to  amount  to  nothing  in  the  long  run  except  trouble.  Cotton  is  not  sup- 
posed to  be  grown  for  warfare  purposes ;  yet  cotton,  treated  with  nitric  acid, 
becomes  guncotton,  a  high  explosive,  and  when  further  treated  chemically  and 
mechanically,  becomes  smokeless  powder.  It  also  forms  various  kinds  of  cellu- 
loid, useful  in  innumerable  ways  in  peace-time  manufacture 

It  is  believed  that  such  a  bill  is  exceedingly  bad.     I  am  just  calling  this 
to  your  attention  as  a  matter  which  seems  to  me  to  be  worthy  of  serious  con 
sideration  by  those  interested  in  the  chemical  industry  in  this  country. 
Very  sincerely  yours, 

(S)     Amos  A.  Fries, 
Major  General,  Chief  of  Chemical  Warfwre  Service. 


("Exhibit  No.  1037"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2730.) 


("Exhibit  No.  1038"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2730.) 


("Exhibit  No.  1039"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2731.) 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2841 

("Exhibit  No.  3040"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2732.) 


("Exhibit  No.  1041"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2735.) 


Exhibit  No.  1042 

[File  :  MS-178] 

Febkuaby  29,  192S. 
National  legislation. 
Mr.  H.  F.  Bebre, 

Mgr.  Foreign  Department, 

Wincheste7'  Repeating  Arms  Company/,  New  Haven,  Conn. 

My  Dear  Mb.  Beebe  :  Thank  you  very  much  for  your  letter  of  February  2Sth) 
in  reference  to  possible  action  necessary  to  preserve  the  best  interests  of  the 
American  manufacturers  of  munitions. 

I  am  afraid  you  misunderstood  the  action  that  I  suggested  in  reference  to 
Mr.  Hoover,  since  my  belief  was  and  is  that  better  results  could  be  obtained 
if  you,  as  chairman  of  the  committee  appointed  by  Mr.  Hoover  in  1925,  would 
write  him  a  letter  stating  the  present  situation  and  inviting  attention  to  the 
certain  hardships  which  would  be  phiced  on  American  manufacturers  and  the 
equally  certain  damage  to  the  interests  of  the  national  defense.  In  this  way 
the  matter  could  be  brought  to  Mr.  Hoover's  attention  and  his  aid  secured 
without  publicity.  Whereas  the  publicity  necessarily  attendant  on  a  meeting 
of  American  manufacturers  at  Washington  to  oppose  a  bill  already  before 
Congress  would  be  equally  disadvantageous  to  the  manufacturers  and  to  M^^- 
Hoover. 

In  reference  to  your  inquiry  as  to  my  probable  presence  in  New  York  in  the 
near  future,  I  do  not  see  any  possibility  of  getting  to  New  York  within  the- 
next  two  or  three  weeks  by  which  time  it  would  probably  be  too  late  to  take 
any  steps. 

I   trust  you  will  not  think   that   I   am   urging  my   own   point  of  view   toa 
strongly  but  I  really  believe  that  the  best  interests  of  all  would  be  served,  if  you 
would  write  Mr.  Hoover,  at  your  earliest  convenience. 
Sincerely, 

Aiken  Simons. 
AS:MH 


Exhibit  No.  1043 

[Pile  :  Ms-178.     Copies  :  C.  Stewart  Comeaux,  Major  Simons,  F.  C.  Nichols] 

March  5th,  1928. 
Subject:  H.  J.  Res.  171. 
To  the  Honorable  the  Secbetaby  of  Commerce, 

Washington,  D.  C, 

DaAB  Mr.  Secretary:  You  will  possibly  remember  that  in  1925  prior  to  thfr 
departure  of  the  delegates  of  the  United  States  to  the  Geneva  convention  for 
the  control  of  international  trade  in  arms  and  ammunition  you  extended  an 
invitation  to  representatives  of  arms  and  ammunition  manufacturers  to  discuss 
the  economic  phases  of  the  proposed  draft. 

The  results  of  the  discussion  were  embodied  in  a  report  addressed  to  you 
under  date  of  April  14,  1925,  a  copy  of  which  is  attached  for  reference. 

In  discussing  with  some  of  the  arms  and  ammunition  manufacturers  the 
bill  introduced  by  Senator  Burton,  H.  J.  Res.  171,  the  opinion  was  expressed  that 
from  the  manufacturers'  standpoint  this  bill  if  passed  would  in  effect  drive  ta 
competitors  in  foreign  countries  business  which  might  otherwise  employ  Ameri. 
can  capital  and  labor. 

From  a  national  point  of  view  the  building  up  of  foreign  factories  at  the 
expense  of  American  institutions  would  naturally  leave  the  latter  less  prepared 
to  carry  on  the  work  that  has  in  the  past  and  would  undoubtedly  again  be 
required  of  them  if  we  were  to  become  involved  in  a  war. 

8.3876— 35— PT  12 14 


2842  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

It  would  further  appear  that  it  would  give  the  nation  best  prepared  for 
-war  a  great  advantage  over  the  one  that  was  not,  through  denying  the  latter 
the  right  of  purchase. 

Reversing  the  situation,  the  United  States  would  be  placed  in  a  position  where 
if  attaclied  by  another  nation  it  could  not  purchase  any  military  equipment 
from  another  country. 

In  view  of  possible  results  of  the  passage  of  the  bill  in  its  present  form 
some  of  which  may  not  have  been  anticipated  by  Senator  Burton,  I  have  been 
requested  as  chairman  of  the  former  committee  to  communicate  to  you  our 
opinion  that  this  is  a  matter  of  suflScient  importance  to  warrant  us  in  suggest- 
ing that  you  consider  the  advisability  of  again  extending  an  invitation  to  inter- 
ested parties  to  a  conference  on  the  subject. 

We  will  highly  appreciate  such  assistance  as  you  may  judge  proper   and 
appropriate  in  this  matter  which  affects  the  national  defense  and  the  best 
interests  of  the  American  industries  involved. 
Yours  respectfully, 

H.  F.  Bebbe, 
Mgr.  Foreign  Department, 
Winchester  Repeating  Arms  Company. 
HFB :  BR  J. 
End. 

("Exhibit  No.  1044"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2737.) 


Exhibit  No.  1045 
[Written  on  regular  letterhead  of  the  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company,  Inc.] 

E.  I.  Dtr  PoNT  DB  Nemours  &  Company,  Incorporated, 

Wilmington,  Delaware,  March  15,  1928. 
Mr.  H.  F.  Bbebe, 

Mgr.  Foreign  Dept., 

Winchester  Repeating  Arms  Company,  New  Haven,  Conn. 

My  Dear  Mr.  Beebe:  Thank  you  very  much  for  your  letter  of  March  13th 
-with  which  you  sent  me  a  copy  of  a  letter  received  by  you  from  Mr.  Thomas 
R.  Taylor,  Assistant  Director  in  the  Bureau  of  Commerce,  as  well  as  your  reply 
to  Mr.  Taylor,  dated  March  13th. 

I  am  sending  you  herewith  a  clipping  from  the  New  York  Tribune  of  March 
15th,  which  develops  the  fact  that  the  Burton  resolutions  have  been  returned 
to  the  House  Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs  and  that  hearings  will  be  held 
tomorrow  morning.  Apparently  Mr,  Taylor  was  misinformed  on  the  action  of 
his  own  Department  or  he  did  not  wish  to  make  a  premature  statement  of 
such  action. 

With  the  opposition  of  the  War  Department,  the  Navy  Department,  the 
State  Department,  and  the  Department  of  Commerce,  as  well  as  the  American 
Legion  and  certain  Representatives  on  the  floor,  such  as  Mr.  Andrew  of  Massa- 
chusetts, I  do  not  think  that  we  need  worry  very  much  about  the  passage  of 
these  resolutions. 

You  will  note  from  this  clipping  and  from  the  reference  to  the  Army-Navy 
Journal  of  Saturday  last  to  which  I  previously  invited  your  attention,  that  the 
opposition  to  the  bill  has  been  extremely  clever  in  enlisting  the  aid  of  the 
farming,  mining,  and  manufacturing  interests  of  the  country  by  pointing  out 
that  their  products  would  be  subject  to  embargo  should  these  resolutions 
prevail. 

My  personal  belief  is  that  any  activity  before  Congress  on  the  part  of  your 
company,  mine,  or  other  munition  manufacturers  would  prove  a  detriment 
rather  than  a  help  to  our  cause  in  that  it  would  enable  the  pacifist  and  seditious 
elements  to  claim  that  munition  manufacturers  encourage  war  and  the  trade 
in  war  material  for  their  own  benefit. 

Since  the  four  most  powerful  departments  of  the  Government  are  opposed 
to  the  bill,  I  believe  that  we  can  rest  our  case.     I  am  in  Washington  from 
time  to  time  and  have  the  situation  under  observation. 
Sincerely, 

(Signed)     Aiken  Simons. 
AS.MH. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2843 

Exhibit  No.  1046 

[File:  MS-178] 

Winchester  Repeating  Abms  Company, 
New  Haven,  Connecticut,  U.S.A.,  March  17th,  1928. 
{Export  division) 
Major  Aiken  Simons, 

E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  d  Company, 

Wilmington,  Delavyare. 
My  Deae  Majoe  :  This  will  acknowledge  receipt  of  your  letter  of  March  15th, 
enclosing  clipping  from  the  New  York  Tribune  of  that  date. 

It  is  fortunate  indeed  that  apparently  enough  opposition  has  developed  in 
other  directions  to  make  it  unnecessary  for  the  munition  manufacturers  to 
take  any  concerted  action. 

With  sincere  appreciation  of  your  interest  in  the  matter  and  your  kindness 
In  keeping  me  informed,  I  remain 
Yours  very  truly, 

(S)     H.  F.  Beebe, 
Mgr.  Foreign  Department. 
WRA  :  HFB  :  ERJ— 39. 


("Exhibit  No.  1047"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2743.) 


("Exhibit  No.  1048"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2747.) 


("Exhibit  No.  1049"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2748.) 


("Exhibit  No.  1050"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2748.) 


("Exhibit  No.  1051"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2748.) 


Exhibit  No.  1052 
[Copy,  Mr.  Birney] 

New  Haven,  Conn.,  February  16ih,  1933. 
Subject :  House  bill  giving  power  to  the  President  to  embargo  shipments  of  arms 

and  ammunition. 
Western  Cartiudge  Company, 

,  East  Alton,  Illinois. 

(Attention  Mr.  J.  M.  Olin.) 
Deae  Mr.  Olin  :  As  you  are  doubtless  aware  when  a  bill  on  this  subject  was 
previously  passed  Senator  Bingham  succeeded  in  having  it  recalled  and  has 
since  been  able  to  have  it  held  up. 

The  bill  was  then  introduced  into  the  House  and  we  immediately  made  an 
effort  to  have  action  postponed  in  order  to  have  an  opportunity  to  enter 
objections. 

In  the  beginning  it  looked  as  if  it  was  probable  that  an  effort  would  be  made 
to  rush  the  bill  through,  and  in  order  to  bring  all  the  pressure  we  could  to  bear 
to  have  the  action  deferred,  I  wired  you  on  February  9th  as  follows : 

"  Informed  probability  bill  being  introduced  House  regarding  arms  embargo 
and  regulations  exports  stop  Have  wired  Congressman  Goss  to  endeavor  have 
action  deferred  to  give  those  interested  opportunity  to  be  heard  stop  Colt  and 
Remington  working  stop  Suggest  you  wire  your  Congressman." 


2844  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

I  discussed  this  matter  witli  Mr.  Birney  and  with  Mr.  Pugsley.  It  was  decided, 
due  to  the  fact  that  I  previously  worked  on  similar  proposals,  that  I  had  best 
go  to  Washington  and  appear  before  the  committee. 

Saturday  afternoon  I  found  that  you  had  telegraphed  to  Mr.  Pugsley  instruct- 
ing him  to  attend,  and  upon  telephoning  him  that  I  would  be  glad  to  turn  all 
the  information  over  to  him,  he  stated  that  he  had  already  wired  you  that  he 
thought  it  best  for  me  to  go. 

From  the  best  information  we  could  get,  both  before  and  after  reaching  Wash- 
ington, it  appeared  that  the  committee  was  ovei-whelmingly  in  favor  of  the 
resolution  and  that  our  efforts  had  best  be  directed  (1)  against  giving  too  much 
power  to  the  President;  (2)  that  it  should  include  all  countries  that  manu- 
factured munitions;  and  (3)  that  it  specify  more  definitely  what  was  intended 
by  arms  and  munitions. 

I  reviewed  some  of  the  material  used  at  the  time  I  went  to  Washington  in 
connection  with  the  Geneva  Conference  and  then  drew  up  the  attached  state- 
ment, which  was  fully  concurred  in  by  a  Remington  and  Colt  representative. 
This  statement  I  made  at  the  committee  hearing  and  answered  a  few  questions. 

Mr.  Stone,  president  of  the  Colt  Company,  stressed  the  importance  of  indus- 
try in  time  of  war,  and  Mr.  Monaghan,  of  the  Remington  Company,  enlarged 
on  the  fact  that  the  possibilities  of  embargo  would  increase  the  building  of 
munition  plants  in  foreign  countries. 

I  saw  in  the  morning  paper  that  the  bill  had  been  reported  out  favorably 
with  ti)e  slight  change  which  limited  its  application  to  North  and  South  Amer- 
ica. I  know  that  when  it  reaches  the  Senate,  Senator  Bingham  will  fight  it 
tooth  and  nail,  and  I  think  a  few  friends  in  the  House,  like  Senator  Goss,  will 
do  what  they  can. 

If  you  have  any  instructions  in  regard  to  what  steps  should  be  taken  please 
inform  me.  If  I  do  not  hear  from  you  to  the  contrary  I  will  continue  to  keep 
in  touch  with  the  other  manufacturers  and  do  what  appears  to  be  necessary 
or  advisable. 

Yours  very  truly, 

H.  F.  Beejbe. 
HFB :  ERJ-30 
End. 

("Exhibit  No.  1053"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2751.) 


Exhibit  No.  1054 

th3iegkam  fkom   wilmington   giving  kequestei>  information   about  ameeican 
dyes  institute  and  relate©  sx^jects 

December  6,  1934. 
Amp:rican  Dyes  Institute, 

130  West  42nd  Street,  New  York  City,  New  York: 

According  to  letter  in  our  file  dated  May  19,  1921,  had  at  that  time  the  follow- 
ing officers :  President,  R.  C.  Jeffcott,  The  Calco  Chemical  Company :  treasurer, 
H.  E.  Danner,  320  Broadway ;  secretary,  W.  11.  Corwine. 

Board  of  Governors  consisted  of  A.  G.  Burrage,  Jr.,  Atlantic  Dyestuffs  Com- 
pany, Boston,  Mass. ;  R.  C.  Jeffcott,  The  Calco  Chemical  Company,  Boundbrook, 
New  Jersey ;  Samuel  Iserman,  Chemical  Company  of  America,  New  York  City ; 
J.  T.  Pardee,  The  Dow  Chemical  Company,  Midland,  Michigan ;  M.  R.  Poucher, 
DuPont ;  H.  W.  Hyde,  Essex  Aniline  Works,  Inc.,  Boston,  aiassachusetts ;  J.  M. 
Matthews,  Grasselli  Chemical  Co.,  Dyestuffs  Department,  New  York  City; 
August  Merz,  The  Heller  and  JNIerz  Company,  Newark,  New  Jersey ;  B,  P.  Don- 
nelly, Holland  Aniline  Company,  Holland,  Michigan  ;  S.  W.  Wilder,  Merrimac 
Chemical  Company,  Boston,  Mass. ;  F.  L.  RlcCartney,  Monsanto  Chemical  Works, 
Inc.,  St.  Louis,  Mo. ;  R.  T.  Baldwin,  National  Aniline  and  Chemical  Company, 
New  York  City ;  C.  N.  Turner,  Newport  Chemical  Works,  Inc.,  Passaic,  New 
Jersey  ;  Frank  Hemingway,  The  Sherwin  Williams  Company,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 

Executive  committee  consisted  of  R.  T.  Baldwin,  A.  C.  Burrage,  C.  N.  Tur- 
ner, J.  M.  Matthews,  J.  T.  Pardee,  M.  R.  Poucher,  August  Merz. 

Volume  on  hearings  before  the  Committee  on  Finance,  United  States  Senate, 
Sixty-sixth  Congress,  second  session,  on  H.  R.  8078,  shows  hearings  held : 
December  8  to  13,  inclusive,  1919,  and  January  12,  1920. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2845 

Hearings  included  statement  of  Joseph  H.  Choate,  Jr.,  counsel  for  American 
Dyes  Institute;  Major  General  W.  L.  Sibert,  director,  United  States  Chemical 
Warfai-e  Service;  Rear  Admiral  Ralph  Earle,  Chief  of  Bureau  of  Ordnance, 
Navy  Department;  Van  H.  Manning,  Director,  Bureau  of  Mines,  Department 
of  the  Interior;  Lieutenant-Colonel  (now  general)  Amos  A.  Fries,  United  States 
Army ;  Colonel  C.  T.  Harris,  United  States  Army ;  Colonel  J.  H.  Burns,  Ordnance 
Department,  United  States  Army;  Dr.  Marston  Taylor  Borgert,  professor, 
Organic  Chemistry,  Columbia  University  ;  Dr.  Julius  Stieglitz,  chairman.  De- 
partment of  Chemistry,  University  of  Chicago ;  Dr.  Charles  H.  LaWall,  analyti- 
cal and  consultant  chemist,  and  dean  College  of  Pharmacy,  Philadelphia ;  Henry 
Howard,  chairman,  executive  committee  of  Manufacturing  Chemists  Association 
and  vice  president  of  Merrimac  Chemical  Co.,  Boston ;  James  T.  Pardee,  vice 
president,  Dow  Chemical  Co. ;  Henry  Wigglesworth,  General  Chemical  Co. ;  Dr. 
Charles  H.  Herty,  editor.  Journal  of  Industrial  and  Engineering  Chemistry; 
Henry  B.  Rust,  president,  Koppers  Company,  Pittsburgh ;  Dr.  Daniel  F.  Waters, 
Germantown  Dye  Works,  Philadelphia;  Frank  D.  Cheney  of  Cheney  Brothers, 
Soutli  Mancliester,  Conn. ;  Irenee  du  Pont ;  E.  H.  Killlieffer,  vice  president,  New- 
port Company,  Milwaukee. 
Textile  men  and  importers  also  testified. 

Hearings  before  Committee  on  Ways  and  Means,  House  of  Representatives, 
were  held  June  18  to  20,  and  July  14  to  18,  1919. 

Many  of  same  Army  and  Navy  officers  and  textile  men  testified. 
Francis  P.  Garvan,  Alien  Property  Custodian,  testified  before  both   House 
and  Senate  committees. 

Following   is   list  of  members   of   American   Dyes    Institute   from    undated 
memorandum  in  our  office : 

Althouse  Chemical  Company,  Reading,  Pa. 

American  Aniline  Products,  Inc.,  New  York  City. 

Atlantic  Dyestuffs  Company,  Boston,  Mass. 

Atlas  Color  Works,  Brooklyn,  New  York. 

Ault  and  Wiborg  Company,  Cincinnati. 

Butterworth  Judson  Corporation,  New  York  City. 
Also  following  from  New  York  City  : 

John  Campbell  and  Co. 

Chemical  Co.  of  America. 

Commonwealth   Chemical  Corporation. 

Consolidated  Color  and  Chemical  Co. 

Dyes  Products  and  Chemical  Co. 

Frank  Hemingway,  Inc. 

Calco  Chemical  Co. 

Metals  Disintegrating  Company. 

National  Aniline  and  Chemical  Company. 

Organic  Salt  and  Acid  Company. 

Rector   Chemical  Co. 

Tower  Manufacturing  Co. 

Dicks,  David,  Company. 

Transatlantic  Chemical  Corporation. 

The  Barrett  Company. 

J.  R.  M.  Klotz  of  Newport  Chemical  Works. 

Certified  Chemical  Corporation,  Brooklyn,  New  York. 

Dow  Chemical  Company,  Midland,  Michigan. 

Du  Pont  Company. 

Essex  Aniline  Works,  Boston,  Mass. 

Gaskill  Chemical  Corporation,  Brooklyn,  New  York. 

Grasselli  Chemical  Company,  Cleveland. 

Heller  and  Merz  Company,  Newark,  New  Jersey. 

Holland  Aniline  Co.,  Holland,  Michigan. 

Holliday  Kemp  Company,  Woodside,  Long  Island. 

Hydrocarbon  Chemical  Products  Co.,  Lancaster,  Pennsylvania. 

Merrimac  Chemical  Co.,  Boston,  Mass. 

Monroe  Color  and  Chemical  Co.,  Quincy,  Illinois. 

Monsanto  Chemical  Works,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

George  E.  Morrill  Co.,  Norwood,  Mass. 

Naugatuck  Chemical  Co.,  Naugatuck,  Conn. 

Peerless  Color  Company,  Boundbrook,  New  Jersey. 

Sherwin  Williams  Co.,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 

United  States  Color  and  Chemical  Co.,  Boston,  Mass. 


2846  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Exhibit  No.  1055 

Db.  Juuan  Adaib, 
Medical  Abts  Building, 
Wilmington,  Delaivare,  Dec.  9,  1934. 
This  is  to  certify  that  Chas.  K.  Weston  is  not  able  to  leave  his  home  on 
account  of  an  impacted  fracture  of  his  right  humerus  (shoulder). 
Respectfully  submitted. 

Julian  Adaib,  M.  D, 

Exhibit  No.  1056 
[File :  Publicity  Bureau.     Thos.  R.  Sbipp — Correspondence,  dyes] 

OCTOBEB  1,   1921. 

Mr.  Thomas  R.  Shipp, 

Riggs  Building,  Washington,  B.C. 

My  Dbab  Mr.  Shipp  :  Please  do  not  arrange  to  visit  Mr.  Cone.  I  think  I  have 
already  arranged  that  matter  satisfactorily. 

The  question  of  advisors  to  the  disarmament  commissioners  is  also,  I  think, 
vpell  in  hand. 

Not  having  heard  anything  from  you  as  to  a  working  agreement  after  your 
visit  here  on  September  16,  I  went  ahead  and  arranged  these  matters  through 
other  channels. 

Very  truly  yours, 


Publicity  Manager. 
CKW/P 

("Exhibit  No.  1057"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2765.) 


Exhibit  No.  1058 

[File:   Publicity  Bureau.     Braddock  Harold — Correspondence,  Dyes] 

October  6,  1921. 
Mr.  Harold  Braddock. 

123  William  St.,  Neiv  York,  N.Y. 

Dear  Mr.  Braddock  :  The  Rosengarten  matter  is  in  such  shape  that  we 
must  not  depend  on  a  contribution  from  that  firm.  I  understand  that  they 
are  not  in  a  position  to  go  along  with  us  in  a  publicity  campaign  and  the 
chances  are  that  it  will  be  some  time  before  we  can  expect  the  contact  with 
them  to  bear  fruit. 

Very  good  progress  is  being  made  in  the  effort  to  secure  support  for  our 
interests  at  the  coming  national  meeting  of  the  American  Legion.  This 
matter  is  very  well  in  hand  and  is  being  pushed  hard  with  the  national  officers 
and  the  executive  committee. 

We  expect  action  to  be  taken  tomorrow,  October  7,  by  the  Army  Ordnance 
Association  meeting  at  the  Aberdeen  Proving  Grounds.  General  C.  C.  Wil- 
liams, Chief  of  Ordnance  of  the  Army,  has  agreed  to  introduce  a  resolution 
and  to  speak  in  support  of  it.  Several  other  Army  officers  who  have  already 
figured  actively  in  the  effort  to  build  up  a  chemical  industry  will  support  him 
in  his  efforts. 

Very  truly  yours, 


Manager  Publicity  Bureau. 
CKW/AER. 

Exhibit  No.  1059 

[Copy.     File  99] 

Wabdman  Park  Hotel, 
Washington,  December  4>  1919. 
Deab  Mb.  Cabpbntee:  T.  C  and  King  can  help  with  Senate  subcommittee. 
Curtis  of  Kansas  is  the  party  whip  and  always  goes  regular.     The  national 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2847 

committeemen,  urged  on  by  T.  C.  and  King,  either  directly  or  througli  Hays, 
could  manage  him. 

Senator  McLean  of  Connecticut  ought  to  be  easy  for  King  to  reach. 

Can't  you  get  the  wires  or  phone  busy  on  King?  He  is  due  here  early 
in  the  week  for  a  national  committee  meeting — expected  to  arrive  on  Sun- 
day— and  could  help  cause  without  inconvenience. 

We  have  all  kinds  of  "  dope  "  about  Watson,  of  Indiana.  The  disquieting: 
report  is  that  he  has  been  busy  in  behalf  of  importers  and  is  not  friendly 
to  us.  We  thought  Landis  had  him  fixed  and  still  hope  that  is  true.  The 
diagnosis  that  we  want  to  accept  is  that  he  will  follow  the  Penrose  lead 
and  that  Penrose  picked  him  to  put  this  thing  over  for  us.  According  to  all 
the  political  "  wise  men  "  this  is  the  case — but  you  can't  be  sure  and  the- 
political  pull  would  not  be  wasted. 

Committee  meeting  was  called  at  direction  of  Penrose  who  wrote  that  action 
should  not  be  delayed  because  of  his  illness.  Evidently  it  is  proposed  to  pusk 
the  hearings  through  next  week  so  that  the  full  committee  can  act  before 
Christmas  holidays  and  have  bill  ready  for   Senate  after  first  of  year. 

Think  Ir6n6e  du  Pont  will  have  to  come  here  Sunday  for  conference.  There 
is  a  loud  call  for  him  from  everyone.  Garvan  feels  that  he  is  worth  more 
than  all  the  others  combined.  I  am  to  see  Watson  tomorrow  and  then  we  can- 
complete  our  program.     After  that  I  will  phone  you  or  Mr.  du  Pont  details^ 

Taken  as  a  whole,  the  situation  looks  good  to  me,  but  I  don't  want  to  miss- 
any  tricks,  hence  the  suggestion  about  T.  C,  King  and  Hays. 

I  have  the  military  situation  in  hand,  Earle,  Williams,  et  al. 

Shall  not  fail  to  meet  you  at  the  Willard  Saturday  night — (duce  tecum). 
Yours, 

Weston. 


Exhibit  Nc  1060 

[Copy] 
O.  O.  032.2/7 

Decembee  5,  1919. 
Hon.  James  E.  Watson, 

Chairman  of  Finance  Subcommittee, 

United  States  Senate. 
My  Dear  Senator:  1.  I  have  just  been  informed  that  there  is  a  bill  before 
your  subcommittee,  H.  R.  8078,  "  To  regulate  the  importation  of  coal-tar  prod- 
ucts, to  promote  the  establishment  of  the  manufacture  thereof  in  the  United 
States,  etc." 

2.  Up-to-date  chemical  knowledge  of  all  kinds  and  the  ability  to  apply  the 
same  to  the  military  program  are  of  course  absolutely  vital  to  proper  prepared- 
uess.  It  is  manifestly  one  of  the  paramount  duties  of  the  Ordnance  Depart- 
ment to  father  tlie  accumulation  of  this  knowledge  in  the  United.  States, 
whether  in  the  Ordnance  Department  itself  or  in  industry. 

3.  I  am  also  informed  that  one  of  the  results  of  the  bill  in  question  would 
be  the  building  up  of  a  large  chemical  industry  which  would  of  necessity 
include  among  its  numbers  several  thousand  trained  chemists  who  would 
devote  their  time  to  the  many  chemical  problems  both  routine  and  researcli 
connected  therewith  and  especially  to  the  chemistry  of  coal-tar  products,  which 
field  is  very  intimately  related  from  all  angles  to  military  explosives.  The- 
industry  would  also  develop  the  solution  of  its  problems  of  raw  materials 
supply,  of  special  chemical  manufacturing  apparatus,  etc.,  all  of  which  would- 
be  applicable  to  our  war  problems. 

4.  It  seems  to  me  that  the  above  results  would  be  of  very  great  value  to 
the  country  from  the  preparedness  standpoint  for  they  would  help  strengthen 
a  vital  link  in  the  chain  that  prior  to  this  war  was  very  weak  and  which  will 
again  become  weak  unless  every  effort  is  made  to  prevent  it. 

5.  I  would  be  very  glad  to  appear  before  your  committee  in  person  and 
wiU  do  so  if  you  care  to  have  me.  I  am  leaving  Washington  today,  but  expect 
to  return  on  the  15th  instant. 

C.  C.  Williams, 

Major  General, 
Chief  of  Ordnance,  U.  8.  A^ 


2848  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Exhibit  No.  1061 
[File  110] 
<Copy  to  Mr.  K.  K.  V.  Casey— 5/4/21.) 

E.  I.  Du  Pont  de  Nemours  <&  Company   (Incorporated), 

Production  Department,  Wilmington,  Delaware, 
Dyestuffs  Departmeint  (Manufacturin(;  Division), 

May  2,  1921. 
Mr.  Ie6n6e  du  Pont, 

President. 
Referring  to  yours  of  April  29th,  relative  to  our  relations  with  the  Chemical 
Warfare  Service,  I  think  you  will  be  pleased  to  know  that  our  contact  with 
that  organization  is  already  quite  close  and  a  recent  visit  to  the  Edgewood 
Arsenal  by  Dr.  Reese  has  brought  about  a  beginning  of  cooperation  which,  no 
doubt,  will  be  highly  beneficial  both  to  the  Service  and  to  ourselves  in  the 
future. 

I  know  that  General  Fries,  from  personal  conversations  that  I  have  had  with 
him,  looks  upon  us  as  a  main-stay  in  case  we  are  brought  to  a  situation  where 
the  united  effort  of  the  country  is  needed.  There  is  not.  of  course,  at  the 
present  a  demand  for  any  of  our  byproducts  at  Edgewood  that  is  of  material 
moment,  but  when  that  does  develop,  in  case  their  experimental  work  is 
expanded,  I  am  very  sure  that  we  shall  have  the  right  kind  of  a  call  from 
the  Chemical  Warfare  Service.  I  have  no  intent  to  let  lapse  the  connection 
which  has  been  established  by  reason  of  our  united  effort  in  legislative  work. 

(S)     Chas.  a.  Meade,  V.  P. 
CAM:G 

[File  110] 

{Copy  to  Mr.  K.  K.  V.  Casey,  5/4/21.) 

April  29,  1921. 
Mr.  Chas.  A.  Meade, 

Vice  President: 
I  read  General  Fries'  speech  with  a  great  deal  of  interest  and  have  just 
spoken  with  Casey  as  to  the  advisability  of  seeing  whether  our  company  cannot 
furnish  intermediates  or  even  finished  war  games  in  a  small  way  to  the  Govern- 
ment in  order  to  get  the  practice  of  their  manufacture  and  to  see  just  where 
their  requirements  dovetail  in  Mith  the  dye  business. 

I  feel  sure  General  Fries  will  look  favorably  on  such  a  proposition  for  he 
has  "  rooted  "  for  the  dye  industry.  I  think  it  would  be  well  for  you  to  take 
same  little  interest  in  this  both  as  an  outlet  to  our  deep  water  products  and 
also  for  the  future  good  of  the  country  should  we  be  so  unfortunate  as  to  have 
another  war. 

iR^NfiB  DU  Pont, 

President. 


Exhibit  No.  1062 

[File  :  Publicity  Bureau,  American  Chem.  Soc,  Dr.  Chas.  L.  Parsons.     Dyes] 

American  Chemical  Society, 

Office  of  the  Secretary, 
Wnshington,  D.  C  1709  G  Street  NW.,  December  1,  1921. 
Mr.  Charles  K.  Weston,  ' ' 

PuUicitij  Bureau,  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.,  Wilmington,  Del. 
Dejar  Mr.  Weston  :  Replying  to  yours  of  November  30 : 

I  am  fully  in  touch  with  the  work  that  is  being  done  here  in  Washington 
regarding  the  question  of  chemical  warfare  before  the  international  conference. 
At  the  same  time,  the  matter  is  a  very  delicate  one,  and  we  can  say  very  little 
to  reporters.  Up  to  the  present  time  nothing  definite  has  been  done  except 
the  organization  of  the  committee  which  met  for  the  first  time  yesterday 
afternoon  at  four  o'clock.  Their  meeting  was  simply  for  organization,  and 
they  have  not  yet  received  the  full  and  necessary  instructions  to  outline  their 
future  procedure. 

I  agree  with  you  that  it  is  highly  important  that  the  commercial  interests 
hold  aloof  from  this  matter  for  it  is  a  delicate  one,  and  their  position  is  quite 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2849 

likely  to  be  seriously  misunderstood.  You  can  see-  from  the  articles  which 
are  appearing  in  the  New  York  Herald  and  also  from  the  article  on  page  4, 
column  6,  of  the  Philadelphia  Ledger  of  this  morning,  how  careful  the  chemists 
have  to  be  in  handling  this  situation. 

I  am  enclosing  for  your  information  copy  of  a  letter  which  I  just  wrote  to- 
the  Public  Ledger,  which  will  give  you  an  inkling  of  how  we  feel  these  matters 
must  be  handled.     I  am  quite  sure  that  you  are  in  accord  therewith. 
With  best  wishes. 
Sincerely  yours, 

Chables  L.  Parsons, 

Secretary. 
CLP/EMT  

Exhibit  No.  1063 

[File:  Publicity  Bureau,  Dr.  Chas.  L.  Reese,  Corres.,  dyes] 

Copy  to :  Mr.  C.  A.  Meade,  Room  0104  Building. 

Decembeb  2,  1921. 
Dr.  Chaeles  L.  Parsons, 

Secretary,  American  Chemical  Societv, 

1709  G  St.  NW.,  Washington,  DC. 

My  Dear  Dr.  Parsons  :  I  want  to  thank  you  for  your  letter  of  yesterday 
and  for  the  copy  of  your  communication  to  the  Public  Ledger. 

The  question  of  properly  guiding  the  newspaper  writers  is  to  my  mind  the 
most  serious  one  before  the  chemical  industry  and  the  chemical  society  at  this 
time.  The  article  which  you  criticise  offers  the  best  possible  evidence  of  the 
need  of  educating  the  writers  and  their  education  can  be  accomplished  only 
by  dealing  frankly  and  fully  with  them  and  giving  them  information  in 
advance  of  its  actually  happening  so  that  they  may  get  the  proper  perspective 
and  realize  the  importance  of  what  is  to  come. 

For  instance,  it  has  been  evident  for  some  time  that  Constance  Drexel  was 
in  the  mood  to  be  hysterical  over  poison  gas.  The  things  she  has  written  since 
she  first  went  to  Washington  to  attend  this  conference  have  all  pointed  in  one 
direction.  If  she  could  have  been  taken  in  hand  and  told  exactly  what  this 
luncheon  was  intended  to  accomplish,  she  would  not  have  made  the  serious 
misstatements,  though  she  might  not  have  been  converted  to  support  of  the 
proposition. 

All  this  is  appropos  of  your  statement  that  "  *  *  *  the  matter  is  a  very 
delicate  one  and  we  can  say  very  little  to  reporters."  I  am  presuming  to 
make  suggestions  because  on  the  advice  of  Dr.  Herty,  after  conference  with 
Dr.  Smith,  it  was  agreed  that  matters  of  publicity  for  the  present  should  be 
left  entirely  to  the  discretion  of  the  noncommercial  chemical  interests  with  Dr. 
Smith,  president  of  your  society,  as  their  official  representative,  and  because 
of  my  experience  in  the  newspaper  field  which  presumably  has  equipped  me 
to  see  these  things  in  a  different  light  than  that  in  which  they  appear  to  the 
layman. 

It  is  very  evident  that  there  are  a  lot  of  writers  in  Washington  who  need 
education  and  need  it  quickly. 
Sincerely  yours. 


CKW/AER. 


("Exhibit  No.  1064"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2779.) 


Exhibit  No.  1065 

[File  C-15] 

January  28th.  1922. 
Mr.  A.  B.  Echols, 

Asst.  Treas. 
In  connection  with  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont's  inquiry  for  information  relative  to 
expenditures  by  this  company  bearing  on  the  dyestuffs  legislative  situation,  1 
have,  in  accordance  with  your  request,  compiled  the  following  data : 


2850  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

PAYMENTS  TO  OR  FOE  ACCOUNT  OF  AMERICAN   DYES   INSTITUTE 

2/17/19—1919    dues $250.  00 

2/18/19 — To  cover  advance  as  our  portion  in  connection  with  pro- 
posed organization  of  a  corporation  (chemical)  foundation  to  take 

over  alien  chemical  patents 1,000.00 

3/21/19— Assessment  for  fiscal  year,  January  1  to  December  31,  1919.     6,  750.  00 
9/22/19 — Check  to  order  H.  E.  Banner,  treas.,  American  Dyes  Inst, 
to  cover  cur  portion  of  expense  of  having  printed  20,000  copies  of 
dyestuffs  hearings  before  the  Ways  and  Means  Committee,  to  be 
distributed  among  the  consuming  industries,  members  of  the  Amer- 
ican Chemical  Society,  libraries,  colleges,  etc 5,  000.  00 

10/15/19— Check  to  order  of  Frank  S.  Bright  and  G.  S.  Ferguson,  Jr., 
Washington,  D.  C,  to  cover  bill  of  9/10/19  for  services  rendered 
by  them  in  connection  with  the  Revenue  Act  of  1918,  and  all  other 

services  account  American  Dyes  Inst.,  totaling 10,  000.  00 

12/18/19 — Check  to  order  H.  E.   Banner.     Voucher  simply  states : 

"As  contribution  to  the  American  Dyes  Institute  " 2,  500.  00 

Total  for  1919 25,500.00 


1/5/20—1920  dues 250.  00 

3/18/20— Preliminary  assessment  for  1920 1.000.00 

4/20/20— Assessment  for  6  months  ending  6/30/20 $7,  687.  50 

Credit  payment  of  3/18/20 1,  000.  00 

6,687.50 


6/23/20 — Copy  of  translation  of  printed  report  made  by  Inter-Allied 
Commission  investigation   of  occupied  German   territory   relating 

specifically  to  manufacture  of  munitions  and  poison  gases 28.  34 

7/20/20 — Quarterly  assessment  for  3  months  ending  9/30/20 3,843.75 

10/11/20 — Our  share  of  expense  of  meeting  at  Yama  farms,   Sept. 

29th  and  30th 220.15 

10/14/20— Quarterly  assessment  for  3  months  ending  12/31/20 3,  843.  75 

10/15/20 — To  cover  our  preliminary  share  of  immediate  expense 10,  250.  00 

11/4/20 — Our  actual  portion  of  assessment    (17  percent 

of  $70,000) $11,900.00 

Credit  payment  of  10/15/20 10,  250.  00 

1,  650, 00 


Total 27,  773.  49 


10/14/20 — By  amount  advanced  2/18/19  toward  Chemical  Founda- 
tion  organization 1,  000.  00 

10/14/20— By  amount  advanced  9/22/19  applicable  to  1920  assess- 
ment      5,  000.  00 

Total  credit 6,  000.  00 

Net  amount  for  1920 21,  773.  49 

1/26/21—1921   dues 250.  00 

4/7/21 — Advance   on   assessment   as   agreed   at   Lakewood   meeting 

April    1st 10,  000.  00 

•9/13/21 — Assessment  of  American  Byes  Institute 500.  00 

Total 10,  750.  00 

CRB3)IT 

Eeferring  to  4/7/21  assessment  our  final  portion  was  figured  at 
17  percent  of  $55,000,  or  $9,350.00,  we  therefore  received  a  credit 
of 650.00 

Net  amount  for  1921 10, 100.  00 

Grand  total,  American  Dyes  Institute 57,  373.  49 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2851 

In  April  1921  this  company  paid  the  bill  for  7,500  copies  of  booklet,  "  World 
Disarmament  And  The  Master  Key  Industry",  and  bill  in  the  amount  of 
$5,357.30  was  rendered  against  the  American  Dyes  Institute  under  date  of 
April  30th,  1921,  which  item  has  not  been  paid  to  us.  It  is  understood  that  a 
portion  of  this,  at  least,  is  to  be  borne  by  us  anyhow,  and  that,  furthermore, 
after  the  investigation  is  finished  and  commitments  by  the  institute  will  have 
to  be  met,  that  this  amount  is  o  be  credited  o  our  share  to  be  paid. 

FEDERAL    TEADB    COMMISSION 

We  applied  for  a  total  of  38  enemy-owned  patents,  seized  by  the  Alien  Prop- 
erty Custodian,  and  paid  a  license  fee  of  $100.00  for  each  patent.  We  finally 
secured  5  licenses  covering  a  total  of  24  patents,  and  $1,400.00  was  therefore 
refunded  to  us.  The  net  result  of  our  relations  with  the  Federal  Trade  Com- 
mission and  the  A.  P.  C.  in  connection  with  dye  patents  is  as  follows : 

Paid  license  fee  of  $100.00  each  for  24  patents $2,  400.  00 

Paid  royalty  on  sales  of  vat  colors  covered  by  one  of  these  licenses_  10, 103.  88 
Paid  royalties  on  account  of  sale  of  indigo  made  under  one  of  these 

licenses 61,  884.  98 

Total,  Federal  Trade  Commission 74,388.86 

CHEMICAL   FOUNDATION,    INC. 

Reference  is  made  in  the  American  Dyes  Institute  tabulation  that  on  Febru- 
ary 17th,  1919,  we  contributed  $1,000.00  toward  expense  of  formation  of  the 
Chemical  Foundation,  Inc.,  for  which  amount  the  institute  credited  us  on  Octo- 
ber 14th,  1920.  Our  original  portion  of  the  underwriting  was  $125,000.00,  which 
was  taken  care  of  by  payments  as  follows : 

3/15/19— Advanced  account  this  amount $75,  000.  00 

6/17/19— Advanced  balance 50,  000.  00 

Total 125,  000.  00 

5/17/20— We  were  refunded 40,  700.  00 


Net  holding 84,  300.  00 

represented  by  2  shares  of  common  stock  and  841  shares  of  6%  nonvoting 
cumulative  preferred  stock,  all  at  par  value  of  $100.00  per  share.  (See  letter 
of  Mr.  C.  A.  Meade  to  Mr,  Irenee  du  Pont  dated  June  22nd,  1920,  explaining 
why  we  still  have  such  a  large  interest  in  the  Chemical  Foundation.)  For 
your  information  our  file  is  attached,  which  please  return. 
Record  of  other  payments  to  the  Chemical  Foundation  is  as  follows : 

2/26/20 — Royalties   on   sales   of   dyes   made   under   patents   licensed 

to  us $26.  02 

3/5/20—8  copies  of  vat  dye  patents 2.  40 

5/10/20— Royalties 169.92 

8/3/20— Royalties 731.32 

10/20/20— License  fee  for  1  license 100.  00 

10/29/20— Royalties 220.63 

12/28/20— Royalties 8,  320. 12 

Total  for  1920   (licenses  and  royalties) 9,570.41 

1/4/21 — Sending   out   for   our   account   458   copies   "  Creative   chem- 
istry " $.538. 15 

1/25/21 — 118  copies  "  Creative  chemistry  "  of  which  80  were  sent  out 

for  our  account  and  38  sent  to  us 127.  44 

2/1/21— Royalties 347.18 

4/22/21— Royalties 1,  280.  81 

4/28/21 — Royalties,  also  license  fee  1  license 104. 15 

6/7/21 — 50  copies  "  Creative  chemistry  "  of  which  26  were  sent  out 
for  our  account  and  24  sent  to  us.     250  reprints  of  an  article  by 

Mr.  Garvan 83.  55 

7/21/21— Royalties 5,  414.  28 


2852  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

9/28/2(1— Royalties $262. 15 

10/1/21— License  fee  for  1  license 100.  00 

10/21/21— Royalties 8,  441.  01 

Total  for  1921,  licenses  and  royalties 15,949.58 

Publicity    aid 749. 14 

16,  698.  72 

2/3/22— License   fees 1,  900.  GO 

Royalties 12, 193.  28 

Total  to  date  for  1922 14,093.28 

The  Chemical  Foundation  grants  nonexclusive  licenses  covering  the  use  of 
certain  patents.  Royalties  are  paid  on  basis  of  a  certain  percentage  of  net 
sales,  i.  e.,  gross  sales  less  freight  and  delivery  expense,  any  licensee  paying 
the  same  royalty  rates  for  the  same  licenses.  The  original  arrangement  was 
to  pay  a  license  fee  of  $100.00  for  each  license  regardless  of  the  number  of  pat- 
ents it  contained.  A  revision  of  the  license-fee  arrangement  has  recently  been 
made  to  the  basis  of  charging  us  $100.00  for  each  patent,  one  fee  only,  however, 
to  be  paid  for  the  same  patent  regardless  of  the  number  of  licenses  it  may  be 
included  under.  This  readjustment  is  reflected  in  the  payment  made,  and 
mentioned  above,  under  date  of  February  3rd,  1922.  We  have  at  the  present 
time  eleven  licenses  from  the  Chemical  Foundation. 

The  C.  F.  recently  inquired  what  portion  of  our  dye  investment  was  used  in 
connection  with  the  manufacture  of  products  covered  by  C.  F.  licenses.  Taking 
all  licenses  actually  in  force,  the  approximate  figure  of  investment  covered  is 
$1,250,000.00,  which  includes  plant  and  working  capital  investment  that  can 
be  charged  directly ;  not  including  any  general  plant  items,  such  as  portion  of 
general  power  investment,  etc.  The  detail  of  this  is  covered  by  the  attached 
copy  of  memorandum  from  Mr.  E.  G.  Robinson  to  Mr.  Meade,  dated  the  28th 
inst.  There  is  also  attached  the  original  inquiry  from  the  Chemical  Founda- 
tion dated  December  27th,  1921,  to  v/hich  no  reply  has  as  yet  been  made. 

SYNTHBH'IC    OKGANIC    CHEMICAL    MANUFACTURiass'    ASSO. 

November  1921— Annual  dues $250.  00 

"W.  F.   Harrington, 

Asst.  General  Mgr., 
ByF.   G.   Hess. 
FGH :  G. 

P.  S. — Information  relative  to  the  two  appropriation  requests  mentioned 
below  should  also  be  included  with  the  other  information. 

PROJECT  11642  (ACCOUNT  O-IOOO) 

Authorized  for  $3,500.00,  actually  spent  $2,262.81,  covering  trip  of  Mr.  C.  K. 
Weston  to  Europe  for  the  purpose  of  meeting  European  journalists,  giving 
them  the  proper  American  viewpoint  so  that  news  items  of  a  proper  nature 
could  be  sent  to  this  country. 

PROJECT  11786  (ACCOUNT  C-1042) 

This  was  taken  out  to  contribute  our  share  toward  the  expense  of  a  cam- 
paign of  publicity  to  counteract  malicious  publicity  against  the  dye  industry. 
The  National's  publicity  representative  was  to  handle  the  work  in  cooperation 
with  similar  representatives  of  other  concerns  in  the  industry.  Our  original 
allotment  was  $10,000.00.  It  was  later  decided,  on  the  information  of  the  new 
Synthetic  Organic  Chemical  Manufacturers'  Asso.,  to  stop  all  further  work 
through  this  source,  but  commitments  had  to  be  taken  care  of,  of  which  our 
share  was  $3,000.00,  for  which  a  part  2  request  was  authorized.  Later  fur- 
ther obligations  were  brought  to  light  under  this  program,  of  which  our  share 
is  $7,500.00,  of  which,  to  date,  $2,500.00  has  been  paid.  Summarized,  we  have 
to  date  paid  $15,500.00  out  of  a  total  of  $20,-500.00  authorized  lor  this  purpose. 

W.  F.  Harrington,  A.G.M., 
FGH :  G.  By  F,  G.  Hess. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2853 

Exhibit  No.  1066 

[File:    MS-80-A.     D-502] 

Dexjbmbkr  5,  1924. 
Col.  W.  N.  Taylor, 

Jfl  Avenue  de  VOpcra,  Paris,  France. 

Dear  Sir  :  Some  time  ago  you  requested  us  to  ask  Mr.  Bradner  to  prepare 
for  3'Ou  a  memorandum  on  chemical  warfare  materials  and  gases.     Mr.  Bradner 
has  just  forwarded  to  us  the  memorandum  which  we  are  attaching  hereto. 
This  undoubtedly  will  be  instructive  and  useful  to  you. 
Very  truly  yours, 

K.  K.  V.  Casey, 
WHO'G  :N.  Director. 

[Pile:    MS-80-A] 

DECBMBE3r   1,    1924. 
Military  Sales  Division. 

Attention  of  Mr.  K.  K.  V.  Casey. 

Replying  to  your  letter  of  October  27th  which  was  sent  to  the  dyestuffs 
department  by  mistake  and  which  I  have  received. 

The  following  is  a  brief  description  of  the  chemical  warfare  materials  which 
are  mentioned  in  Colonel  Taylor's  letter. 

Chloracetophenone  (C6H5COCH2CI)  is  a  lachrymator  or  tear  gas.  It  is  a 
white  solid  having  a  fairly  low  vapor  pressure  (0.01  mm.  of  Hg.  at  normal  tem- 
peratures). Probably  the  best  method  of  preparation  is  the  condensation  of 
chloracetychloride  (CICH-COCI)  with  benzene  (CdHe)  in  the  presence  of  alum- 
inum chloride  (AICI3).  The  chloracetyl  chloride  is  made  by  the  chlorination  of 
chloracetic  acid  (ClCh2C00H)  which  in  turn  is  made  from  acetic  acid. 
CH2COOH).  The  process  of  manufacture  is  difficult  and  disagreeable.  Unless 
a  fairly  large  order  could  be  secured  I  would  not  advise  making  it.  In  my 
opinion  there  is  no  place  for  a  lachrymator  in  warfare  but  it  is  excellent  for 
police  work. 

Diphenylaminechlorarsine  iCcIli)2  NHAsCl)  is  a  very  powerful  toxic  smoke. 
It  is  a  greenish  solid,  yellow  when  pure,  having  a  very  low  vapor  pressure, 
0.003  mm/Hg  at  150°  C.  It  is  made  by  the  condensation  of  diphenylamine 
(CcH5)2  NH  and  arsenic  trichloride  (AsCh).  The  manufacture  is  simple  and 
not  particularly  disagreeable,  due  to  the  low  vapor  pressure  of  the  toxic.  This 
material  is  a  very  effective  military  agent  but  the  effects  are  rather  severe  for 
police  purposes. 

Phosgene  (COCI2)  is  a  lethal  agent.  It  is  a  liquid  whose  boiling  point  is  8°  C. 
and  is  made  from  chlorine  and  carbon  monoxide  in  the  presence  of  charcoal  as 
a  catalyst.  The  manufacture  is  quite  simple  and  reasonably  safe.  Phosgene  Is 
a  fairly  effective  military  agent  but  of  course  is  not  suitable  for  police  use. 

Butyl  mercaptau  (CiHsiSH)  is  not  a  toxic  but  simply  a  stench.  It  is  a  liquid 
which  boils  at  98°  C.  and  is  made  from  butyl  alcohol  (C4H9OH)  and  hydrogen 
sulphide  (H2S)  in  the  presence  of  theria  as  a  catalyst.  It  has  been  proposed 
as  a  fake  gas  since  its  odor  is  somewhat  similar  to  mustard  gas,  but  I  doubt 
if  it  will  ever  be  used. 

Titanium  tetrachloride  (TiCl4)  is  used  for  making  a  nontoxic  smoke.  It  is 
a  liquid  boiling  at  136°  which  fumes  in  air.  It  is  made  by  the  chlorination  of 
titanium  carbide  (TiCi)  which  is  obtained  from  coke  and  titanium  oxide 
(Ti02).  It  is  a  good  smoke  producer  and  has  been  used  recently  in  the  laying 
of  smoke  screens  from  aeroplanes. 

Picric  acid  (CcH20H(N02)3  is  an  explosive  but  is  used  as  an  intermediate 
in   the  manufacture  of  ehloropicrin    (CCI3NO2). 

Diphenylamine  (CMa)!  NH  is  an  intermediate  used  in  the  manufacture  of 
diphenylamine  chlorarsine.  It  is  made  from  aniline  (CeH5NH2)  which  in  turn 
i«  made  from  nitrobenzene  (C6Ht;N02).  All  of  these  materials  are  dyestuff 
intermediates  and  are  being  manufactured  by  the  dyestuffs  department  at 
present. 

Nitrobenzene  (CbHsNOz)  is  made  by  the  nitration  of  benezene  and  is  used  to 
make  aniline  (CeHsHNa). 

Dinitrobenzene  (CeH4(N02)2)  is  not  an  intermediate  for  any  toxic  that  I 
know^  of.  It  might  be  used  as  an  explosive  ingredient.  It  is  obtained  by  the 
nitration  of  nitrobenzene. 

Dinitrotoluene  (C6H2CH3(N02)2)  is  not  used  in  the  manufacture  of  toxics. 
It  may  be  used  to  make  trinitrotoluene  (CeH2CH3(N02)8)  or  it  may  be  used 
directly  as  an  explosive  ingredient. 


2854  MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY 

Carbon  monoxide  (CO)  is  a  gas  produced  by  burning  coke  with  a  limited 
quantity  of  ai*.  or  oxygen  in  case  it  is  desired  pure.  It  is  used  in  the  manu- 
facture of  phosgene. 

Diphenylchlorarsine  (C6Hii)2AsCl  is  a  toxic  smoke  similar  m  properties  to 
diphenylaminechlorarsine.  It  is  made  from  aniline  (CSH6NH2)  which  is 
treated  with  nitrous  acid  (HNO2)  and  sodium  arsenite  (NazAsOa)  which  gives 
pheuylarsenic  oxide  (C^HsASOa).  This  compound  is  reduced  with  sulphur 
dioxide  (SO2)  to  phenylarsenious  oxide  (CeHoASO)  which  is  then  treated  with 
a  limited  quantity  of  hydrochloric  acid  (HCl).  Diphenylchlorarsine  and  ar- 
senous  oxide  (AS2O3)  are  formed.  The  process  is  difficult  and  the  finished 
product  is  inferior  to  diphenylaminechlorarsine. 

Arsenic  trichloride  (AsCU)  is  an  intermediate  in  the  manufacture  of  di- 
phenvhiminechlorarsine.  It  is  prepared  by  the  action  of  hydrochloric  acid 
or  sulphur  chloride  (S2CI2)  on  arsenous  oxide.     It  is  a  liquid  boiling  at  130°  C. 

Phenol  (CeHnOH)  is  the  raw  material  from  which  picric  acid  is  made.  It 
is  obtained  from  the  distillation  of  coal  tar. 

Phenolamine.  I  do  not  know  what  compound  this  is.  Possibly  it  is  amino- 
phenol  (NH2CGH4OH)  but  no  use  is  known  for  this  substance  in  chemical 
warfare  work. 

Sulphur  chloride  (S2CI2)  is  an  intermediate  in  the  manufacture  of  mustard 
gas  (CIC2H2SC2H4CI)  or  may  be  used  to  prepare  arsenic  trichloride.  It  is  a 
yellow  oil  made  by  the  direct  action  or  chlorine  on  sulphur. 

White  phosphorus  is  the  ordinary  yellow  phosphorus  made  by  reducing  phos- 
phate rock  with  carbon  in  an  electric  furnace.  It  is  used  for  producing  non- 
toxic smokes  and  for  demoralizing  effect.  It  is  spontaneously  inflammable  in 
air  and  produces  severe  slow-healing  burns. 

Tetrachloride,  probably  carbon  tetrachloride  (CCU),  might  be  used  as  a  source 
of  phosgene  or  for  diluting  other  gases.  No  real  use  is  seen  for  it.  It  is 
prepared  by  chlorinating  carbon  bisulphide  (CS2). 

Ethylene  gas  (C2H4)  is  used  in  the  manufacture  of  mustard  gas.  It  is 
made  by  heating  alcohol  (C2H6OH)  in  the  presence  of  kaolin  as  a  catalyst. 

Carbon  dioxide  (CO2)  is  the  gas  obtained  when  coke  is  burned  with  an  excess 
of  oxygen.  It  might  be  used  as  a  source  of  carbon  monoxide  for  phosgene 
manufacture.    No  other  use  can  be  seen  for  it. 

Of  this  list  only  diphenylamine,  nitrobenzene,  dinitrobenzene,  and  dinitro- 
toluene,  could  be  readily  produced  by  this  company.  The  manufacture  of 
diphenylaminechlorarsine  would  require  the  building  of  a  plant  but  this  would 
not  be  very  expensive. 

It  is  believed  that  the  dyestuffs  department  contemplates  the  building  of  a 
phosgene  plant  eventually  for  their  own  use.  Consequently  they  might  consider 
doing  so  now  if  an  order  for  phosgene  were  secured. 

Chloracetophenone  and  diphenylchlorarsine  both  require  expensive  plants  and 
the  materials  themselves  are  of  doubtful  value. 

Titanium  tetrachloride  and  white  phosphorus  are  both  good  smoke-producing 
materials,  but  the  company  is  not  in  a  position  to  produce  them. 

Referring  to  the  second  paragraph  of  Col.  Taylor's  letter.  Phosgene  is  a 
fairly  effective  nonpersistent  gas  and  could  be  manufactured  safely  and  easily. 
Mustard  gas  is  one  of  the  most  effective  persistent  agents  known  and  would  be 
used  in  large  quantities  in  case  of  a  serious  war.  It  is  made  either  from  sulphur 
chloride  and  ethylene  or  from  thiodiglycol  (HCC2H4SC2H4OH)  and  hydrochloric 
acid.  Thiodiglycol  is  made  from  ethylene  chlorhydrin  (CIC2H4OH)  and  sodium 
sulphide  (Na^S).  Chlorhydrin  is  made  by  passing  ethylene  into  a  solution  of 
hypochlorous  acid  (HCIO)  formed  by  passing  chlorine  into  a  water  suspension 
of  calcium  carbonate.  The  same  properties  which  make  mustard  gas  effective 
in  warfare  make  its  manufacture  veiT  dangerous.  The  chlorhydrin  process  is 
much  safer  than  the  sulphur  chloride  process,  but  I  doubt  if  the  company  would 
care  to  undertake  either  one.  They  might,  however,  be  willing  to  furnish  either 
ethylene  chlorhydrin  or  thiodiglycol. 

Of  the  various  toxic  smokes  I  would  recommend  that  diphenylamine 
clilorarsine  be  used  as  a  warfare  agent.  I  would  not  recommend  its  use  for 
police  work  due  to  its  high  toxicity. 

Chloracetoplienone  is  probably  the  best  of  the  laerymators.  Brombenzyl- 
cyanide  (CoH^CHBrCN)  is  very  effective  but  is  corrosive  to  most  metals.  A 
less  effective  material  but  one  that  is  easily  made  is  bromacetone 
(OHsCOCHsBr). 

For  the  production  of  screening  smokes,  I  would  recommend  the  use  of  60% 
oleum  which  is  simply  a  solution  of  sulpliur  trioxides   (SO3)  in  .sulphuric  acid 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2855 

(H2SO4).  This  material  is  much  more  effective  than  titanium  tetrachloride  and 
also  much  cheaper.  The  company  would  be  in  a  position  to  furnish  oleum  of 
this  strength.  Another  smoke-producing  material  is  a  mixture  of  zinc  dust,  zinc 
oxide,  and  hexachlorethene  (C2CI6).  When  this  mixture  is  ignited  it  burns 
forming  zinc  chloride  smoke.  It  is  less  than  half  as  efficient  per  unit  weight, 
as  oleum  and  is  more  expensive,  but  has  the  advantage  that  small  smoke 
candles  can  be  made  from  it  which  can  be  used  by  infantry.  The  company 
could  make  this  mixture  without  great  difficulty. 

Chloropicrin  (CCI3NO2)  is  a  liquid  boiling  at  112°  C.  It  is  a  combination  of  a 
lethal  agent  and  a  lacrymator  but  is  much  less  effective  than  phosgene  as  a 
lethal  agent  and  nothing  like  as  good  a  lacrymator  as  chloracetophenone.  I  do 
not  believe  it  would  be  used  again  in  war  and  is  too  dangerous  for  police  use. 

There  is  one  other  material  which  I  believe  is  practically  ideal  for  police 
use,  but  which  probably  would  not  be  used  in  warfare.  This  material  is 
capsaicin  (OH.OCH3CGELCH2NHCOC9H17)  which  is  the  active  principle  of  red 
pepper.  Before  coming  with  the  company  I  developed  a  method  of  manu- 
facturing this  material  synthetically  and  hold  a  personal  patent  on  the  process.. 
Capsaicin  is  effective  in  lower  concentrations  than  any  other  known  materal. 
It  is  entirely  nontoxic,  while  all  other  material  which  have  been  proposed  for 
police  work  are  very  toxic  and  can  only  be  used  because  it  is  improbable  that 
the  concentrations  would  be  high  enough  to  produce  serious  results.  Capsaicin 
has  the  additional  advantage  of  penetrating  all  except  the  most  efficient  type 
gas  mask.  It  is  a  solid  whose  vapor  pressure  is  about  the  same  as  that  of 
diphenylamine  chlorarsine.  I  have  no  idea  whether  or  not  the  company  would 
care  to  manufacture  this  material. 

The  iodine  containing  material  which  you  mention  is  probably  ethyliodoacetate 
(CH3COOC2H41)  which  is  a  very  good  lacrymator  but  is  probably  too  expensive 
for  use. 

I  have  made  no  attempt  to  give  estimates  on  manufacturing  costs  of  these 
various  materials  and  could  not  do  so  without  making  a  study  of  equipment 
and  facilities  now  available  which  might  be  converted  to  this  use. 

D.   B.  Bradner. 


Exhibit  No.  1067 

November  6,  1933. 

Memorandum :  Visit  of  Mr.  G.  Donegani,  October  27,  1933. 

At  the  invitation  of  Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont,  Mr.  Donegani  called  in  Wil- 
mington on  October  27th,  accompanied  by  Romolo  Angelone,  Counselor  of  the 
Royal  Italian  Embassy  in  Washington,  as  an  interpreter.  Unfortunately, 
Mr.  du  Pont  was  sick  and  Mr.  Pickard  and  Mr.  Swift  out  of  town. 

We  arranged  a  meeting  with  Mr.  Wardenburg  and  Mr.  Dannenbaum,  and 
the  general  International  nitrogen  situation  was  discussed.  Mr.  Donegani 
stated  that  Chile  and  Japan  were  the  two  great  problems  to  be  faced  before 
the  Europeans  could  reach  a  permanent  agreement.  We  pointed  out  to  him 
that  the  Europeans  must  cease  to  regard  America  as  a  dumping  gi'ound. 
While  there  is  a  temporary  place  for  a  small  amount  of  European  nitrogen  in 
this  market,  pending  complete  development  of  the  domestic  industry,  the 
American  producers  will  not  stand  for  a  continuation  of  present  conditions. 
The  exceptionally  favorable  position  of  the  American  industry,  with  respect 
to  cost,  particularly  for  compound  fertilizers,  was  emphasized. 

A  short  meeting  was  held  with  Mr.  F.  La  Motte,  in  which  Mr.  La  Motte 
answered  various  questions  of  Mr.  Donegani  relative  to  the  sulphur  situation, 
particularly  the  position  of  the  Jefferson  Co. 

In  addition  to  Mr.  Wardenburg  and  Mr.  Dannenbaum,  Messrs.  Crane,  Richter,. 
Robinson,  and  Protto  and  the  undersigned  were  present  at  lunch.  Mr.  Donegani 
had  no  comments  to  make  about  the  Italian  Duco  Company  except  to  mention 
that  they  had  the  Fiat  business. 

After  lunch  Mr.  Protto,  Mr.  Robinson,  and  the  undersigned  accompanied 
Mr.  Donegani  to  the  dye  plant,  taking  him  in  to  the  camphor  operation  for  a 
brief  look  around.  Mr.  Donegani  had  quite  a  long  conversation  with  Mr. 
Protto,  in  which  it  came  out  that  the  I.  G.  had  told  Mr.  Donegani  not  to 
discuss  dyestuffs  with  us,  as  they  spoke  for  us  in  Europe.  Mr.  Protto  con- 
vinced him  of  the  lack  of  truth  in  this  statement.  Mr.  Donegani  then  told 
Mr.  Protto  the  history  of  A.  C.  N.  A.  After  incurring  very  heavy  losses  for 
several  years.  Mu!=solini,  who  is  a  personal  friend  of  Donegani,  called  him  in 


2856  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

and  told  him  that  he  wanted  him  to  take  the  company  over.  Mr.  Donegani 
objected;  first,  on  the  groimds  that  he  did  not  want  to  put  good  money  into 
a  sick  company,  and  that  he  could  not  make  it  a  technical  success  without 
securing  assistance  from  abroad.  After  considerable  argument,  and  after  point- 
ing out  that  both  da  Pont  and  the  English  had  turned  down  the  proposition  to 
give  A  C.  N.  A.  assistance,  Donegani  secured  permission  to  bring  the  I.  G. 
in  as  minority  holders.  They  paid  approximately  20,000,000  lire  for  a  49% 
interest,  and  agreed  to  supply  technical  information  to  enable  A.  C.  N.  A.  to 
manufacture  dyestuffs  as  soon  as  there  were  sufficient  consumption  to  warrant 
local  production.  Either  side  has  the  right  to  terminate  the  contract,  and 
the  Italians  may  buy  back  the  I.  G.  shares  at  cost.  The  Italians  also  pur- 
chased a  49%  interest  in  I.  G.'s  local  manufacturing  subsidiary,  Bianchi. 

The  financing  was  done  through  Credito  Italiano  upon  the  orders  of  Mus- 
solini. It  is  our  understanding  that  40,000,000  lire  was  paid  for  the  concern, 
49%  of  which  was  supplied  by  the  Germans. 

The  Italian  dyestuffs  market  is  about  $10,000,000  per  year,  607o  to  65% 
of  which  is  supplied  by  local  manufacture  and  the  balance  by  imports,  prin- 
cipally Swiss  and  German  high-priced  specialties.  The  local  manufacture 
takes  care  of  the  bulk  colors,  prices  on  which  are  quite  low.  At  the  present 
time  the  A  C.  N.  A.  has  an  export  quota  of  about  $1,000,000  per  year,  expiring 
at  the  end  of  this  vear,  when  the  subject  will  come  up  for  discussion  again. 
The  Germans  have'not  played  fair  with  respect  to  giving  technical  informa- 
tion and  their  whole  policy  has  been  designed  to  protect  the  market  for  then- 
exports  of  high-priced  colors  to  the  Italian  market.  Their  interest  in  export 
is  entirely  subsidiary  to  their  home  market,  and  they  are  very  ambitious  to 
supply  the  entire  home  market  from  local  manufacture,  both  from  a  national- 
defense  and  a  balance-of-trade  point  of  view.  Upon  the  return  of  Donegani 
and  von  Schnitzler  from  tliis  country,  it  is  intended  to  hold  a  meetmg  m 
Rome  where  it  is  hoped  that  satisfactory  arrangements  can  be  worked  out. 
As  a  'last  resort,  the  Italian  Government  is  prepared  to  set  up  a  dyestuffs 
monopoly  which  would  take  over  existing  sales  organizations,  including  that 
of  the  Germans  and  the  Swiss.  This  would  in  effect  destroy  the  position  of 
I  G  in  Italy  as  it  would  take  away  their  sales  organization.  Mr.  Donegani 
characterized 'such  a  step  as  international  brigandage,  and  hoped  it  would  not 

be  necessary  to  go  so  far.  ^-  r,  ^u     t<-  t. 

Mr  Donegani  reported  that  the  German  Rayon  Cartel,  in  which  the  Italians 
had  an  18%  interest,  was  broken  up  by  an  edict  of  the  Hitler  Government 
without   any   reason   except   national   self-interest   to   justify   the   step. 

jkj/ems  


("Exhibit  No.  1068"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2783.) 


Exhibit  No.  1069 

[Copy] 

[File  C-3-B.     For  information] 


JUNE3  20,  1922. 


Mr.  F.  W.  PiCAKD, 

Vice  President. 

The  other  day  I  was  talking  with  Sir  Harry  McGowan,  and  we  spoke  of  the 
British  dyestuffs  situation,  though  he  is  no  longer  a  director  of  the  company. 
Among  the  comments  he  made  were  the  following :  i^  v,     ^,  , 

If  the  British  made  a  deal  with  the  Germans,  du  Pont  interests  could  hardly 
be  given  special  treatment  in  the  matter,  unless  there  was  a  definite  under- 
taking on  the  part  of  Sir  William  Alexander  that  he  was  negotiating  for  us. 
The  British  Government  would  not  weaken,  but  were  absolutely  determined 
to  see  the  company  successful.  The  inevitable  result  would  be  an  agreement 
with  the  Germans,  for  Sir  Harry  does  not  seem  to  think  it  possible  that  the 
British  will  be  able  to  achieve  technical  success  without  the  help  of  the  Germans. 
Mr  Pickard  ought  to  come  right  over  to  London,  and  the  United  States  legisla- 
tive situation  is  probably  so  well  in  hand  that  he  could  now  come.  Tlie  embargo 
could  not  be  considered  as  permanent  protection,  as  the  agitation  against  it  was 
so  serious  that  there  was  a  big  change  that  the  dyestuffs  act  would  be  repealed. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2857 

I  saw  Sir  William  Alexander  last  Saturday,  and  we  had  a  very  earnest  talk, 
in  which  I  frankly  told  him  that  his  insistence  on  the  15%  commission  and  his 
efforts  to  revive  "a  finished  episode  caused  a  serious  stumbling  block  in  the 
way  of  cooperation  between  our  companies.  He  replied  that  that  was  a  second- 
ary matter ;  it  would  be  laid  entirely  to  one  side,  and  he  would  be  ready  to 
work  out  an  arrangement  with  the  du  Pont  Company  which  would  be  mutually 
desirable.  He  went  on  to  say  that  their  position  was  well  nigh  desperate. 
The  dyestuffs  act  does  not  give  them  proper  protection,  for  cheaper  German 
dyes  are  allowed  to  come  in  if  the  British  dyes  cannot  meet  the  price.  Thus 
(and  of  course  he  would  not  want  this  discussed  too  broadly),  J.  and  P.  Coats 
were  using  a  German  black,  Zambesi  black  I  think  the  name  was,  in  very  large 
quantities,  and  the  price  was  7/-  a  lb.  The  British  Dyestuffs  Corp.  made  a 
black  which  was  entirely  satisfactory  to  Coats,  and  sold  them  10  tons  at  6/8d 
per  lb.,  and  then  an  additional  50  tons.  The  Germans  went  to  Coats  and 
offered  their  black  dye  in  quantities  as  required  at  3/4d  per  lb.,  or  a  yearly 
contract  at  2/6d  per  lb.  Coats  took  the  matter  up  with  the  British  D.yestuffs 
Corp.,  who  went  over  their  figures  very  carefully,  and  said  the  best  that  they 
could  do  was  6/-  per  lb.,  whereas  Coats  applied  for  a  license  to  import  the 
German  dye,  which  was  granted.  On  the  60  tons,  approximately  their  annual 
requirements  of  this  one  dye,  the  German  price  therefore  effected  a  saving  to 
Coats  of  about  £25,000,  which  was  too  big  a  saving  to  forego,  and  he  said 
throughout  the  world  the  Germans  were  quoting  prices  far  below  the  British 
cost  of  manufacture. 

He  pointed  out  to  me  more  clearly  than  I  ever  realized  before  the  difference 
between  our  position  and  their  own.  The  competition  of  our  dye  users  is 
principally  with  other  American  dye  users,  so  that  if  American  users  have  to  pay 
more  for  dyes  than  other  countries,  it  is  unpleasant  but  it  is  not  final.  The 
British  dyers  on  the  other  hand  look  principally  to  their  export  markets,  and 
must  therefore  purchase  their  raw  materials,  including  dyes,  as  cheaply  as 
can  any  other  dyers  throughout  the  world. 

Sir  William  went  on  to  say  that  he  had  seen  von  Weinberg  and  Oppenheim 
in  Berlin  a  month  ago,  and  their  proposals  were  that  the  British  company 
would  limit  its  sales  to  the  British  Isles  only,  not  the  Empire,  and  give  tlie 
Germans  half  of  their  profits  in  exchange  for  technical  information.  He  told 
them  emphatically  that  the  British  would  not  agree  to  such  terms,  but  were 
ready  to  agree  on  prices  throughout  the  world,  and  come  to  an  understanding 
about  competition.  Duisberg  was  also  to  be  called  in  if  an  agreement  was  in 
sight,  but  naturally  there  was  nothing  doing,  and  I  presume  that  the  Germans 
are  simply  biding  their  time  until  British  Dyes  will  have  to  come  to  them  again. 
Sir  William  went  on  to  say  that  the  British  Government  was  going  to  back  the 
enterprise  up  to  the  limit,  favored  an  arrangement  with  the  Germans,  but 
were  entirely  opposed  to  any  such  terms  as  the  Germans  had  in  mind.  The 
British  color  users  were  mostly  sympathetic  and  helpful  in  their  attitude,  but 
the  Calico  Printers  Association  had  recently  gone  to  Germany,  submitted  a  list 
of  dyes  to  the  I.  G.,  and  asked  them  to  put  down  their  very  lowest  possible 
quotations  for  these  dyes,  so  that  they  could  submit  the  list  to  the  licensing 
committee  and  secure  entry  for  the  German  dyes  on  the  ground  of  low  price. 

Yesterday  I  had  lunch  with  Mr.  H.  Sutcliffe  Smith  of  the  Bradford  Dyers 
and  chairman  of  the  Color  Users  Association  of  Great  Britain.  He  was  very 
favorably  disposed  to  the  present  management  of  the  British  Dyestuffs  Corp. 
and  feels  that  the  agitation  for  German  dyes  is  exceedingly  unpatriotic  and 
dangerous.  But  at  the  same  time  he  faces  a  continual  opposition  on  the  part 
of  some  of  the  users  who  want  cheaper  dyes.  He  told  me  more  of  what  I  had 
already  heard,  that  a  strong  committee  was  calling  for  proxies  for  the  annual 
meeting  of  the  British  Dyestuffs  Corp.  June  22nd  to  put  out  the  present  man- 
agement. He  thought  there  would  be  a  warm  fight  at  the  meeting,  but  that 
the  present  management  would  win  out. 

I  have  also  talked  with  Lord  Ashfield,  the  other  Government  dii'ector  of  the 
British  Dyes,  and  he  also  welcomes  cooperation  with  the  Du  Pont  Company. 
He  says  that  they  positively  will  not  give  in  to  the  Germans,  but  will  keep  up 
the  fight,  and  being  to  all  intents  and  purposes  an  American,  he  is  of  course 
very  much   in  favor  of  cooperation   with   the  du   Pont   Company. 

The  above,  together  with  the  numerous  articles  in  the  newspapers  about 
the  British  Dyestuffs  affairs,  has  mnde  me  convinced  that  it  is  a  very  propi- 
tious time  to  negotiate  with  the  Britisli  Dyes.  They  may  be  far  behind  us  in 
technical  information,  but  undoubtedly  have  a  good  deal  of  valuable  knowledge, 
83876— 35— PT  12 15 


2858  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

while  their  negotiations  with  the  Germans  may  result  in  developments  that 
will  be  important  to  us.  If  therefore  you  can  spare  the  time,  I  think  it  most 
desirable  for  you  to  come  over  to  London?  Possibly  if  you  can  come,  you  will 
be  here  when  Mr.  Haskell  is  here,  and  I  hope  that  you  will  not  have  to  delay 
your  visit  much  later  than  the  early  part  of  July. 

A  few  enclosed  clippings  will  give  you  a  better  idea  of  some  of  the  comments 
on  the  present  situation. 

Jasper  E.  Crane, 
JEC  :AAD  European  Manager. 

ENC.  

Exhibit  No.  1070 

[Pile  105.     Copy  for  Mr.  R.  R.  M.  Carpenter] 

Deoembb:r  15,  1920. 
Sir  Habby  McGowan, 

195  West  Oeorge  Street,  Glasgow,  Scotland. 

Dear  Sib  Harby:  Along  the  lines  of  my  conversation  with  you  in  the  mat- 
ter of  inviting  Hercules  and  Atlas  Companies  to  participate  in  companies  to  be 
formed  for  manufacturing  explosives  in  foreign  lands: 

Our  executive  committee  have  deemed  it  expedient  to  restrict  this,  for  the 
present  at  least,  to  Chile,  where  a  definite  factory  is  already  in  process  of  be- 
ing laid  down. 

I  have  this  morning  sounded  out  Messrs.  Webster  and  Dunham  on  the  ques- 
tion and  find  them  in  a  very  receptive  mood,  both,  admittedly  not  because  of 
the  profits  on  the  investment,  but  in  order  that  cut-throat  competition  in  that 
country  may  be  eliminated,  and  the  economic  loss,  due  to  duplication  of  or- 
ganization, eliminated. 

The  discussion  was  entirely  informal,  and.  no  commitments  of  any  kind  were 
made,  but  it  is  the  idea  that  at  an  opportune  time,  after  they  had  had  au 
opportunity  of  discussing  the  question  with  their  colleagues,  we  would  "  get 
together  "  to  arrive  at  a  more  concrete  proposition. 

Am  writing  you  this  as  a  reminder  of  the  point  of  view  which  I  expressed 
to  you,  and  because  it  would  seem  to  be  a  good  opening  to  put  in  force  the 
ideas  that  we  were  more  or  less  together  on  in  that  discussion ;  i.  e.,  the  pros- 
pects on  the  Chilean  enterprise  are  not  so  splendid  but  that  we  could  afford 
to  permit  the  other  companies  to  join  in  without  heavy  financial  loss.  I  say 
this  because  I  think  and  believe  you  were  of  the  same  opinion,  that  we  must 
build  in  order  to  prevent  losing  the  trade  of  that  country  elsewhere;  that  the 
investment  itself  was  not  overattractive.  Personally,  I  would  rather  have  a 
25%  interest  with  Hercules  and  Atlas  in  than  a  50%  one  with  them  out.  I 
wonder  if  you  were  feeling  the  same  way? 

It  was  suggested  in  the  meeting  that  possibly  in  a  short  time  relations  with 
the  German  Nobel  group  would  be  reopened  in  a  way  which  would  make  it 
desirable  that  they,  too,  share  in  the  enterprise.  What  would  you  think  of 
such  an  arrangement? 

This  is  written  you  while  the  matter  is  fresh  in  mind,  but  I  do  not  think  we 
can  come  to  any  conclusions  by  letter,  and  that  the  topic  had  best  be  dis- 
cussed either  when  you  are  next  in  this  country  or  when  a  suitable  represen- 
tative of  our  company  is  next  in  yours,  according  to  which  happens  first. 

Wishing  you  a  merry  Christmas  and  a  happy  new  year,  and  with  regards 
to  Lady  McGowan,  I  am. 


Yours  sincerely. 


iRENfiE  DU  Pont,  President. 


Exhibit  No.  1071 

E.  I.  DU  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company, 
54  New  Broad  Street,  London,  E.  G.  2,  nth  June,  1923. 

Mr.  H.  G.  Haskell,  Vice  President. 

Dear  Mr.  Haskell  :  After  talking  with  Mr.  Mitchell  about  detonators  we  had 
a  little  talk  on  the  relationship  between  our  companies  and  particularly  on  mili- 
tary matters.     He  said  that  he  felt  it  very  important  to  try  to  get  me,  as  the 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2859 

du  Pont  representative  here,  to  understand  Nobels  situation  and  their  point  of 
view,  and  he  went  on  quite  frankly  to  tell  me,  partly  in  reply  to  my  questions, 
a  good  many  things  that  I  had  not  known  before. 

He  reviewed  the  Czechoslovakian  situation  and  said  that  Philipp  of  the 
Austrian  Nobel  Co.,  thought  he  had  the  concession  from  the  Czechoslovakian 
Government  and  on  ]iis  way  to  the  Government  offices  to  close  the  deal  he  met 
Leonard  Smith  coming  out  of  the  office  with  the  signed  concession  in  his 
pocket.  You  already  know  about  the  ownership  of  this  Czechoslovakian  ex- 
plosive company  and  that  the  Austrians  were  taken  in,  but  Mitchell  explained' 
to  me  the  reasons  for  taking  the  Austrhins  in  were  primarily  in  payment  for 
their  plant  which  they  turned  over  to  the  new  company  and  secondly  because- 
they  felt  it  would  be  desirable  to  work  vvith  Philipp  in  other  Eastern  Europeaa 
countries,  which  has  already  been  the  case. 

Although  the  German  group  is  understood  still  to  own  control  of  the  Austrian 
Nobels  and  to  that  extent  Philipp  is  their  man,  yet  the  Nobels  have  never  had 
any  discussion  with  the  Germans.  All  the  negotiations  have  been  carried  on  be- 
tween Philipp  and  Leonard  Smith. 

In  Hungary  Philipp  secured  the  concession  for  a  Government  powder  factory 
and  has  taken  Nobels  in  tifty-fifty,  that  is  to  say,  the  Hungarian  Government 
retain  60%  of  the  stock,  Austrian  Nobels  have  20%  and  Nobels  Industries  have 
20%. 

Philipp  also  secured  the  concession  for  the  Government  powder  factory  in 
Bulgaria.  Mr.  Mitchell  could  not  give  me  off-hand  the  details  of  this  deal  but 
I  understand  it  was  exactly  the  same  as  in  Hungary.  Work  has  already  been 
started  at  the  factories  in  both  these  countries. 

Mr.  Mitchell  went  on  to  say  that  the  Jugoslavians  would  also  without  ques- 
tion build  their  own  plant  and  that  Philipp  would  secure  this  concession  and 
they  would  go  in  as  partners  with  him. 

There  was  nothing  doing  in  Koumania  yet  but  that  would  probably  follow  suit. 

You  will  note  that  the  French  are  not  included  in  any  of  the.se  new  deals. 

Mitchell  further  said  that  they  were  rather  worried  about  Du  Pout's  attitude 
in  several  markets  of  the  world  and  he  thought  it  would  be  desirable  to  have  a 
conference  on  the  matter  at  the  earliest  convenient  time. 

( S )     Jaspek  E,  Ckane, 

European  Manager. 
JEC/OA. 


Exhibit  No.   1071-A 

[Strictly  confidential  and  personal] 

European  Office,  Capel  House, 
5J,,  New  Broad  Street,  London,  E.  C.  2,  June  8,  192S. 
Mr.  H.  G.  Haskeix, 

Vice  President,  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co., 

Wilmington,  Del.,  U.  8.  A. 

Dear  Mr.  Haskell:  As  a  result  of  several  conversations  with  Nobels  about 
military-powder  business,  I  am  prompted  to  write  you  this  letter  to  give  you 
some  conclusions,  perhaps  immature,  on  the  subject  of  the  relations  between 
the  two  companies. 

It  seems  to  me  that  a  conference  should  be  held  and  decisions  arrived  as 
soon  as  is  feasible  with  regard  to  military  supplies.  Sir  Harry  McGowan  is 
going  to  South  Africa  in  October,  and  therefore  he  is  not  proposing  to  go 
to  the  United  States  again  until  next  spring.  It  may  be  best  to  let  the  niat*er 
wait  over  until  then,  but  I  believe  that  the  desirability  of  a  conference  over 
here  this  summer  should  be  given  some  consideration. 

It  strikes  nje  that  covenants  between  the  two  companies  regarding  military 
business  bristle  with  difficulties  and  are  subject  to  almost  infinite  complica- 
tions, while  there  is  always  danger  of  leakage  of  infonnation  into  improper 
hands  giving  rise  to  serious  criticism  of  the  company  and  even  to  a  campaign 
against  us.  One  of  the  worst  practical  <lifficulties  seems  to  nie  ^o  be  that  th(- 
reduction  to  written  memoranda  of  decisions  reached  between  the  two  com- 
panies on  such  subjects  has  to  be  very  cautiously  and  only  partially  carrie<l  out 
by  us,  while  the  other  side  have  fuller  notes  and  are  always  in  the  position  of 
interpreting  past  agreements  and  supporting  their  interpretations  by  quotation.s 
from  documents.     Knowledge  is  power,  and  I  think  we  are  always  at  a  dis- 


2860  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

advantage  in  these  negotiations  from  this  fact,  and  it  will  continue  to  become 
more  difficult  as  time  goes  on. 

I  am  burning  up  the  file  copy  of  this  letter  and  presume  you  will  do  the 
same  with  the  original,  but  I  hope  that  before  doing  so  you  will  think  the 
matter  over  and  perhaps  be  kind  enough  to  let  me  know  what  you  think 
about  it. 

Very  truly  yours, 

(S)     Jaspee  E.  Ckane, 

European  Manager. 
JEC/AAD 

P.  S. — I  am  sure  that  Mr.  Felix  du  Pont  won't  mind  my  adding  that  I  admired 
the  way  he  handled  the  discussions  with  Sir  Harry,  but  you  needn't  tell  him 
that  I  have  said  that.     J.  E.  C. 


Exhibit  No.  1071-B 

[File — Soc.   Cent  de  Dynamite] 

E  I.  DU  Pont  de  Nemoues  &  Company, 

London  Office, 
5-J,  Netv  Broad  Street,  London,  E.  C.  2,  January  30iil,  1923. 
Mr.  H.  G.  Haskell, 

Vice  President. 

Deae  Me.  Haskell:  Your  letter  of  Jan.  9th  is  received,  and  I  am  much 
interested  to  read  the  copies  of  your  letters  to  Dr.  MuUer. 

I  met  Mr.  Spruance  in  Paris  last  week,  spending  a  couple  of  days  there.  We 
went  over  the  cellophane  matter  together,  but  deferred  meeting  various  French 
interests  until  next  week  when  I  am  again  going  to  Paris  on  my  way  to  Sweden. 
We  will  then  spend  a  day  or  two  talking  to  Mr.  Le  Pay,  Usins  du  Rhone,  and 
other  French  chemical  people. 

The  only  development  to  inform  you  about  now  is  that  I  saw  Mr.  Le  Play 
and  arranged  a  meeting  with  him  next  week.  He  told  me  that  the  German 
negotiations  were  still  proceeding,  and  showed  me  a  letter  written  by  Dr. 
Fausten  after  the  French  were  in  the  Ruhr  which  was  expressed  in  very 
friendly  terms.  He  said  that  Richter  and  Muller  were  practically  impossible, 
but  Aufschlager  and  Fausten  were  very  reasonable  and  pleasant,  and  he  con- 
sidered the  latter  the  coming  man  in  the  whole  German  group.  He  continned 
your  information  that  Nobels  have  no  ownership  in  the  French  group.  As  you 
say,  they  both  own  stock  in  subsidiary  companies,  and  they  have  made  an  agree- 
ment that  Nobels  will  not  do  business  in  France  or  its  colonies,  and  that  the 
Society  General  will  not  do  business  in  the  British  Empire.  Mr.  Le  Play  said 
that  owing  to  the  exchange  position,  the  Germans  could  sell  explosives  more 
cheaply  than  they,  and  they  more  cheaply  than  the  British ;  for  example  they 
could  .sell  explosives  in  Brazil  much  more  cheaply  than  Nobels.  Their  domestic 
trade  was  dull,  but  they  were  developing  the  export  market,  particularly  South 
America,  and  felt  that  at  present  prices  they  could  obtain  all  the  South  Ameri- 
can trade  they  wanted,  but  they  did  not  wish  to  go  too  far  in  a  way  that  would 
be  unfriendly  to  Nobels  ourselves.  He  brought  this  in  as  an  example,  and  to 
emphasize  his  remarks  about  the  unbalanced  condition  of  trade  at  the  present 
exchanges,  but  I  presume  his  ulterior  rensnn  was  to  sink  the  idea  in  our  minds 
that  relationship  with  them  would  be  desirable  for  us  on  competitive  grounds. 

I  have  just  cabled  and  written  Mr.  Pickard  some  interesting  information 
obtained  on  the  German  dye  situation,  which  was  briefly  first,  that  Hoechst,  the 
principal  indigo  manufacturer  in  Germany,  is  complaining  of  American  compe- 
tition on  indigo  in  China,  and  second,  that  Mr.  Boyden,  American  observer  on 
the  Reparations  Commission,  told  me  that  the  French  are  contemplating  seizing 
25%  of  the  capital  stock  of  German  industrial  companies,  presumably  in  the 
occupied  territory  and  the  Ruhr  and  by  issue  of  stock  dividends,  though  that 
was  not  clearly  brought  out. 

Mr.  Spruance  is  planning  to  sail  back  to  the  United  States  on  the  Majestic 
Feb.  2.Sth,  and  to  come  to  Entrland  about  a  week  beforehand,  by  which  time  I 
will  have  returned  from  Sweden.  While  here  he  plans  to  make  a  trip  to  Ardeer 
besides  meeting  the  Nobel  officials. 

Jasper  E.  Ceane, 
European  Manager. 
JEC/WS 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2861 

Exhibit  No.   1072 

du  Font's  and  Nobel's  relationship 

Wilmington,  Delaware,  March  21,  192ft. 

To  executive  committee 

From  H.  G.  Haskell,  V.  P.,  and  A.  Felix  du  Pont,  Gen.  Mgr.,  Smokeless  Powder 

Dept. 

When  Sir  Harry  McGowan  and  his  associates  were  here  last  spring,  among 
the  topics  discussed  there  were  several  which  could  not  be  carried  to  a  definite 
conclusion,  partly  because  of  lack  of  information  as  to  details,  and  Sir  Harry 
earnestly  suggested  the  advi.sability  of  holding  our  next  conference  in  London. 
Mr.  Ir^n^e  du  Pont  was  especially  invited,  he  not  having  paid  a  visit  to  our 
Nobel  friends  in  a  long  while,  and  Sir  Harry  wanted  very  much  for  him  to 
meet  the  members  of  his  organization,  some  of  whom  are  new  or  have  risen 
in  importance  of  late. 

Mr.  du  Pont  has  arranged  to  sail  the  middle  of  April,  accompanied  by 
Felix  du  Pont  and  H.  G.  Haskell. 

About  a  year  ago,  when  Mr.  Felix  du  Pont  was  in  London,  the  sale  of  mili- 
tary powder  in  Europe  was  discussed  in  connection  with  the  question  of  some 
patent  rights  involved  in  our  patents  agreement  with  Nobels.  Tlie  same 
subject  was  discussed  in  an  informal  way  here  last  spring  before  Mr.  Felix 
du  Font's  trip,  and  it  will  doubtless  be  one  of  those  to  be  brought  up  in 
London.  It  is  expected  that  this  will  lead  to  consideration  of  our  relations 
with  the  Nobel  Company  as  a  whole.  As  a  guide  in  discussing  this  subject, 
Mr.  Iren^o  du  Pont  has  requested  consideration  of  this  subject  by  the  execu- 
tive committee  so  that  he  might  be  aware  of  their  views.  "With  this  request, 
we  are  submitting  some  suggestions  of  a  general  nature  in  addition  to  which, 
of  course,  there  are  in  your  committee's  files  many  records,  including  minutes 
of  conference  held  from  time  to  time,  copies  of  contracts,  patent  agreements, 
etc.,  which  have  expired,  and  the  present  patents  agreement,  which  remains 
in  force  until  December  31st,  1929. 

The  patents  agreement  covers  explosives,  etc..  including  military  proiiellants, 
but  does  not  Include  many  of  the  things  in  which  the  du  Pont  Company  has 
become  interested  in  more  recently,  such  as  pyralin,  dyes,  fiber  silk,  fnbrikoid, 
etc.  It  is  true,  however,  that  we  have  proceeded  with  respect  to  many  of 
these  much  as  we  would  have  done  had  they  been  included  in  the  agreement 
on  explosives.  For  example,  recent  technical  representatives  of  Nobels  have 
visited  Newburgh,  Parlin,  and  other  plants,  as  well  as  explosive  factories,  and 
patents  processes  on  coating  matei-ials,  for  instance,  have  been  handled  in  the 
same  way  as  inventions  pertaining  to  dynamite  would  be  dealt  with.  This  has 
been  based  on  general  policy,  and  we  believe  the  results  have  been  satisfactory 
and  of  benefit  to  both  parties.  On  the  other  hand,  it  has  not  been  thought 
advi.«;able  to  exchange  information  on  fibersilk,  nor  has  it  been  felt  necessary 
to  give  information  on  such  subjects  as  special  military  powders  being  de- 
veloped for  the  U.  S.  Government. 

So  far  as  we  know,  relations  between  the  Nobels  and  ourselves  pertaining 
to  inventions  as  specifically  covered  by  the  patents  agreement,  and  also  inven- 
tions not  included  in  that  agreement,  have  been  satisfactory  and  everything 
has  worked  smoothly. 

As  you  know,  the  present  patents  agreement  between  the  Nobel  Company 
and  ourselves  was  a  continuation  of  a  somewhat  similar  agreement  between 
the  du  Font  Company  on  one  hand  and  the  English  Nobels  and  the  German 
explosives  interests  as  the  other  parties,  these  agreements  extending  back 
many  years,  being  revised  and  renewed  from  time  to  time  as  they  expired  by 
time  limit  or  otherwise,  changes  being  made  to  meet  new  conditions  current 
at   the   renewal   periods. 

One  of  the  industries  that  has  undergone  marked  evolution  during  the  period 
of  these  successive  agreements  includes  military  propellants  and  explosives, 
and  the  war  brought  about  marked  changes,  not  only  of  a  technical  nature, 
but  also  with  respect  to  market  conditions.  At  the  time  of  the  first  agree- 
ment, all  parties  made  much  the  same  kind  of  gunpowder.  Smokeless  powder 
and  TNT  were  not  in  use  and  had  hardly  been  invented.  Most  of  the  demand 
for  military  explosives  was  from  the  home  governments  of  the  respective 
parties,  and  other  markets  for  sale  of  military  explosives  were  almost  neg- 
ligible.   Today  there  is  a  great  variety  of  military  propellants  and  explosives. 


2862  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

aiul  the  purchases  of  other  governments ;  France,  Greece,  Siam,  Poland,  Mexico, 
and  others,  are  factors  of  importance. 

In  the  high  explosives  field  conditions  have  not  changed  so  radically,  either 
an  the  character  of  the  product  or  its  consumption.  It  is  probable  the  require- 
ments of  North  America  equal,  if  they  do  not  exceed,  the  consumption  in  the 
I'est  of  the  world. 

It  is  impossible  to  predict  just  what  the  conference  in  London  will  embrace, 
but  it  would  be  valuable  if  your  committee  could  make  certain  assumptions  and 
formulate  your  views  based  on  these  assumed  conditions. 

Assuming,  for  argument,  that  our  present  agreement  as  to  patents  expired 
in  1924  instead  of  1929,  would  it  be  your  view  that  the  du  Pont  Company's 
best  interests  would  be  served  by  renewing  the  present  agreement  for  another 
term,  or  would  you  modify  it,  or  would  it  be  better  to  have  no  fonnal  agree- 
ment? 

If  the  choice  were  to  be  a  new  agreement,  would  it  cover — 

(a)   Inventions  in  all  industries  in  which  both  parties  are  engaged; 

(&)   Limitation  to  one  m-  more  industries; 

(c)  Separate  agreements  covering  each  industry;  for  example,  one  on  fab- 
rikoid  and  allied  products,  another  on  commercial  explosives,  a  third  limited 
to  military  propellants,  etc.,  etc.? 

Assuming  our  present  agreement  continues  unchanged  until  1929,  the  question 
of  interpretation  will  undoubtedly  be  a  matter  of  discussion  in  London,  and 
one  of  the  phases  of  this  discussion,  already  indicated,  is  the  sale  of  smokeless 
powder  in  Europe.  This  is  a  subject  with  which  you  are  more  or  less  familiar. 
To  mention  a  few  points  briefly : 

Most  of  the  important  trade  in  Europe  (excepting  France)  was  supplied  from 
Germany.  No  patents  agreements  with  the  Germans  have  been  renewed  since 
the  war.  Before  the  war  the  du  Pont  Company  was  in  active  negotiations 
with  France  in  connection  with  smokeless  powders  not  covered  by  patented  in- 
ventions, but  except  for  that,  we  had  no  very  good  prospects  for  such  trade  in 
PAirope.  During  the  war,  of  course,  enormous  quantities  were  supplied  to  the 
Allies,  and  little  or  no  attention  was  paid  by  anyone  to  patented  inventions. 
After  the  close  of  the  war,  demand  arose  from  "  reconstructed "  countries 
(Poland,  Czechoslovakia)  and  others,  mostly  in  territories  formerly  supplied 
by  the  Germans,  and  for  this  trade  the  du  Pont  Company  has  been  a  more  or 
less  successful  competitor  because  of  its  ability  to  supply  and  also  because  of 
goodwill  acquired  during  the  war.  In  this  competition  the  du  Pont  Company 
has  met  Nobel  representatives  on  several  occasions.  (See  footnote.)  The 
Nobels  have  intimated  that  this  European  trade  is  more  logically  theirs  than 
American.  In  case  they  should  seriously  formulate  a  suggestion  of  this  char- 
acter, would  it  be  your  committee's  view  that  Nobel's  contention  is  correct, 
and,  if  so,  to  what  extent  should  we  yield  our  position  in  this  field? 

The  smokeless-powder  department  contends  that  it  has  as  much  right  as 
Nobel  to  any  foreign  business  it  can  get  that  used  to  be  supplied  by  the  Ger- 
mans— this  especially  on  account  of  the  reputation  that  the  du  Pont  Company 
has  obtained  by  its  sales  of  military  propellants  and  explosives  during  the  war. 

Owing  partly  to  conditions  arising  out  of  the  war,  there  have  been,  with 
relation  to  military  propellants  and  explosives,  some  impediments  in  the  way 
of  exohnnge  in  inventions  by  reason  of  the  desire  of  military  authorities  to 
keep  secret  certain  processes  which,  in  the  ordinary  course,  would  be  exchangiMl 
under  the  agreement. 

The  U.  S.  Army  and  Navy  being  unable  to  give  orders  sufticient  to  keep  the 
du  Pont  military  smokeless-powder  plant  in  operation  and  yet  being  exceed- 
ingly anxious  for  reasons  of  national  defense  to  have  the  use  of  that  factory 
in  emergency,  have  requested  the  du  Pont  Company  to  get  military  foreign 
business  and  have  helped  the  du  Pont  Company  to  obtain  such  business  as 
it  has  got. 

These  are  among  the  reasons  why  our  smokeless-powder  department  would 
prefer  to  divorce  military  propellants  and  explosives  from  the  agreement  with 
Nobel.  The  grounds  for  this  are  that  present  agreement  is  based,  to  sonie  ex- 
tent, on  preceding  ones  made  from  time  to  time  when  conditions  were  different, 
and  the  existing  arrangement  is  not  in  tune  with  today's  situation  as  a  whole. 

If  this  could  be  brought  about,  it  is  the  smokeless-powder  department's  opin- 
ion that  it  would  be  better  to  have  no  agreement  whatever,  in  which  case 
patents  or  processes  could  be  sold  by  one  party  to  the  other  when  desirable 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2863 

and  the  company  would  take  its  clisince  on  world  competition  in  connection 
with  products  and  processes  not  so  disposed  of. 
Does  your  committee  agree  with  this  view? 
Respectfully  submitted. 

H.  G.  Haskell, 

Vice  President, 
A.  Fexix  du  Pont, 
Qen.  Manager  Smokeless  Poicder  Dept. 
Note. — In  competing  for  Polish  business  we  usually  find  ourselves  in  com- 
petition with  M.  Philipe,  representing  the  Czechoslovakia  company.     We  under- 
stand Philipe  represents  the  Hamburg  Nobels  ownership  of  about  12%  of  tlie 
stock.     The  French  company,  sometimes  spoken  of  as  "  Le  Play  ",  and  the  Eng- 
lish Nobels  own  similar  amounts,  the  three  together  approximating  half  own- 
ership.    The  other  lialf  presumably  belongs  to  Czechoslovakians.     When  orders 
for  smokeless  powder  are  obtained  by  this  company,  the  explosives  are  usually 
supplied  from  Rorweil,  Germany.     In  competing  for  Spanish  business  we  meet 
a  Spanish  company  in  which  the  Nobels  have  a  large  interest,  though  pre- 
sumably a  minority  one.     We  understand  it  is  not  customary  for  the  English 
Nobels  to  themselves  appear  as  sellers. 


Exhibit  No.  1073 
[File  C-1] 

Atmex  S 
[Copy.     Attached  to  excerpts  of  letter  dated  11-6-24] 

Notes  of  Conversations  Held  at  the  Hotel  des  Indes  at  Thk  Hague  on 

OcrroBEK  15th,  1924,  at  2 :  30  p.  m. 
Present: 

Sir  Harry  McGowan,  K.  B.  E.,  Mr.  H.  J.  Mitchell,  representing  Nobel  Indus- 
tries, Ltd. 

Dr.  G.  Aufschlager,  Mr.  Fr.  Richter,  Dr.  Paul  Miiller,  representing  the 
German  companies. 

Dr.  Axel  Aubert,  representing  the  Norwegian  company. 

After  an  exchange  of  courtesies  Sir  Harry  McGowan  stated  that  it  was 
essential  for  any  discussion  to  be  quite  frank  on  both  sides,  and  he  otfered  to 
provide  any  information  which  he  could  properly  do  in  regard  to  the  develop- 
ment of  Nobel  Industries  and  its  activities  in  various  parts  of  the  world. 
Dr.  Aufschlager  replied  that  he  also  was  prepared  to  approach  the  subject  with 
the  utmost  frankness.  General  statements  were  then  made  by  the  Nobel 
Industries'  representatives  in  regard  to  the  situation  in  the  United  Kingdom, 
Canada,  South  Africa,  and  Australia,  and  reference  was  also  made  to  the 
capital  participations  which  had  been  acquired  in  the  various  Balkan  companies 
and  in  the  Chilian  company.  It  appeared  that  the  German  representatives 
were  fairly  well  cognisant  of  all  that  had  gone  on  and  were  also  quite  au  fait 
with  the  satisfactory  results  which  had  been  achieved  by  the  British  company. 
At  a  very  early  stage  in  the  proceedings  it  was  evident  that  the  chief  concern  of 
the  Germans  was  as  to  the  extent  to  which  any  arrangement  which  might  be 
come  to  could  be  made  to  embrace  the  American  companies,  and  information 
was  asked  as  to  what  was  the  position  or  as  to  what  understanding.';,  if  any, 
existed  among  the  U.  S.  manufacturers,  special  reference  being  made  to 
Du  Pont,  Hercules,  Atlas,  Aetna,  and  the  Trojan  Powder  Company.  In  reply  to 
the  latter  question  Sir  Harry  stated  that  no  association  existed  in  the  States, 
and  that  in  fact  any  such  association  would  be  illegal,  but,  although  active 
competition  existed,  there  was  a  friendly  intercourse  which  in  his  judgment 
would  enable  the  United  States  manufacturers  to  come  to  an  understanding  in 
regard  to  extra  United  States  questions  and  further  that  the  existing  laws  in 
the  States  did  not  in  themselves  preclude  the  possibility  of  such  an  under- 
standing. He  further  intimated  that  from  his  conversations  with  the  Du  Pont 
Company  he  had  ascertained  that  they  were  not  averse  to  associating  in  an 
agreement  governing  the  South  American  Continent,  but  that  at  this  stage  he 
was  not  able  to  speak  with  any  authority  on  behalf  of  Du  Ponts,  and  still  less 
could  he  say  how  the  matter  would  be  approached  by  the  other  American 
manufacturers  mentioned. 

The  German  representatives  provided  information  as  to  the  position  in 
Germany,  which  may  be  summarized  briefly  as  follows: 


2864  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

High  explosives  manufacture  appears  to  be  mainly  in  tlie  hands  of  tliree 
groups : 

(a)   Dyuamit-Actien-Gesellscliaft  group. 

{b)  Westfalisch-Anhaltische  SprengstofE-Actien-Gesellsctiaft  (Coswig  control- 
led by  the  Stinnes  interests). 

(c)  Oberschlesische  Sprengstoff-Actien  Gesellschaft  von  Lignose. 
The  latter  group,  which  is  in  the  nature  of  a  consumers'  concern,  does  virtually 
all  the  business  in  the  Oberschlesische  district  and  in  Poland,  but  up  to  the 
present  they  appear  to  have  made  no  serious  attempt  to  do  an  export  business. 
Groups  (a)  and  (6)  are  associated  in  a  price  maintenance  convention  covering 
German  territory,  which  Dr.  Aufschlager  stated  had  been  loyally  observed  by 
them.  Until  recently  Coswig  had  done  little  export  business,  but  recently  had 
become  more  active  in  that  connection,  and  it  was  reported  that  a  shipment 
had  just  gone  forward  to  Chile  of  3,000  cases  from  the  Coswig  works. 

No  arrangement  exists  between  the  D.A.G.  group  and  "  Coswig "  in  regard 
to  export  trade,  and  Mr.  Richter  stated  that  his  many  approaches  to  bring 
about  an  understanding  in  this  connection  had  proved  abortive  owing  to  the 
excessive  ideas  held  by  the  Coswig  i)eople  in  regard  to  the  export  trade,  and 
further,  because  that  concern  had  so  far  declined  to  listen  to  any  proposals 
which  did  not  give  them  some  guaranteed  demand  on  their  factories  for  the 
export  markets  which  they  demanded  in  order  to  assist  in  reducing  costs  for 
the  liome  market. 

There  are  other  small  manufacturing  concerns  producing  in  Germany,  re- 
ferred to  as  the  Bayerische  and  Gnaschwitz  Sprengstoffwerke,  but  we  did  not 
gather  that  they  were  of  much  importance,  particularly  in  the  consideration 
of  export  questions. 

Detonators. — There  are  a  large  number  of  comparatively  small  detonator 
and  electric-detonator  manufacturers  in  Germany,  who  are  at  present  asso- 
ciated with  the  Rheinisch-Westfalische  SprengstofE-Actien-Gesellschaft  in  au 
international  detonator  convention,  such  as  existed  before  the  war,  but  which 
Dr.  Muller  stated  was  on  a  very  insecure  foundation  and  was,  in  his  opinion, 
likely  to  break  up  at  any  moment.  He  stated  that  the  Rheinisch-Westfalische 
Company,  which  is  embraced  in  the  Dynamit-Actien-Gesellschaft  group,  was 
at  present  doing  about  80%  of  the  detonator  trade  in  Germany,  and  he  ex- 
pressed grave  doubts  as  to  whether  he  would  be  able  to  carry  on  the  detonator 
convention  much  longer.  In  this  connection  Sir  Harry  stated  quite  definitely 
that  he  felt  sure  no  arrangement  would  be  possible  between  the  parties  unless 
it  embraced  also  the  control  of  the  detonator  situation,  and  to  this  the 
German  representatives  agreed. 

N.  B. — Prior  to  the  war  the  export  sales  in  detonators  were  controlled 
wholly  by  the  D.A.G.  group,  the  Rheinisch-Westfalische  Company  doing  no 
business  on  its  own  account  outside  the  German  territory,  but  effecting  all 
its  export  sales  through  the  medium  of  the  D.A.G.  It  is  not  known  whether 
this  condition  exists  today,  but,  no  doubt,  arrangements  could  be  made  to  that 
end  if  any  change  has  taken  place  in  the  meantime. 

Black  poicder. — The  D.A.G.  group  control  Wolff  &  Company,  of  Walsrode, 
but  they  have  no  influence  on  a  number  of  other  powder  manufacturers  in 
Germany  nor  on  the  Luxemburg  Company.  It  was  felt  that  the  black-powder 
situation  had  better  be  left  for  the  present  until  it  was  ascertained  whether 
any  arrangement  could  be  made  in  regard  to  high  explosives  and  detonators. 

Safetu  fuse. — Apart  from  the  small  production  of  safety  fuse  from  the  fac- 
tory of  the  Fabrik  Elektrischer  Zander  (controlled  by  the  D.A.G.  group) 
the  German  representatives  have  no  control  over  the  fuse  situation.  Their 
interest  in  that  commodity  is  comparatively  insignificant,  and  it  was  clear 
that,  should  any  arrangement  be  contemplated  on  fuse,  the  gentlemen  present 
could  not  undertake  that  task,  but  that  it  would  have  to  be  separately 
approached. 

Reference  was  then  made  to  the  unsatisfactory  conditions  which  exist  in 
the  various  export  markets,  due  to  the  present  competition  between  the  parties, 
and  it  evolved  that  all  the  parties  represented  were  in  complete  agreement 
with  the  principle  of  coming  to  some  arrangement  by  which  these  unsatisfac- 
tory conditions  could  be  avoided.  Mr.  Richter  was  invited  to  make  his  sug- 
gestions as  to  tjie  form  of  understanding  which  might  be  considered,  and  lie 
indicated  that  ni  the  German  view  it  would  be  well  that  each  market  in 
which  competition  exists  should  be  considered  separately,  and  that  an  en- 
deavor should  be  made  to  fix  a  definite  quota  percentage  of  the  trade  for  each 
of   the   companies   operating   in    that    market,    provision    being   made   for   the 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2865 

imposition  of  heavy  penalties  on  any  of  tlie  parties  overselling  their  quota, 
such  penalties  to  be  paid  to  those  who  have  short-sold  as  compensation  for 
such  short  sales.  Mr.  Richter  referred  to  the  difficulties  which  had  existed  in 
the  past  in  controlling  agents  and  expressed  the  view  that  the  suggestion  to 
impose  heavy  penalties  would  compel  the  principals  to  exercise  more  effective 
control  over  their  agents  than  had  been  the  case  in  the  past. 

As  a  countersuggestion  for  consideration  the  Nobel  representatives  advised 
the  Germans  of  the  existence,  in  conjunction  with  the  Du  Pont  Company,  of 
the  South  American  pool,  and  suggested  that  they  give  consideration  to  the 
extension  of  that  pool  to  cover  all  those  interested  in  the  South  American  trade 
with  the  necessary  variation  of  percentage  interests  and  possibly  modified  to 
the  extent  that  instead  of  pooling  the  actual  profits  made  there  should  be  a 
fixed  sum  to  be  pooled  in  respect  of  each  unit  of  sales. 

It  was  abundantly  obvious  that  the  Germans'  and  Norwegians'  attention  was 
more  particularly  directed  to  South  America  and  Mexico  because  they  appeared 
to  attach  relatively  little  importance  to  ny  other  country,  and  eventually  it 
was  suggested  that  an  endeavor  should  be  made  in  the  first  place  to  adjust 
matters  in  regard  to  the  American  Continent.  Sir  Harry  was  asked  whether 
he  would  take  up  the  question  with  the  president  of  the  Du  Pont  Company 
with  a  view  to  having  an  early  meeting  with  the  representatives  of  that  com- 
pany and  such  other  of  the  American  companies  as  would  be  involved.  Refer- 
ence was  also  made  to  the  desirability  of  adjusting  the  situation  in  the  Japanese 
market,  and  Dr.  Aubert  also  made  a  passing  reference  to  the  Dutch  Bast 
Indies.  No  specific  reference  was  made  to  any  question  of  the  reservation  of 
home  territories  or  other  exclusive  markets  (e.  g.,  the  British  Empire),  but 
occasional  comments  led  us  to  the  view  that  the  German  representatives  were 
tacitly  accepting  such  a  reservation  as  a  condition  precedent  to  any  arrange- 
ment. 

No  direct  question  was  put  as  to  the  possibility  of  bringing  about  a  financial 
identity  of  interests,  because  it  appeared  clear  from  the  reports  given  us 
(namely,  that  the  German  companies  were  making  good  profits  in  their  own 
country  and  furthermore  that  the  various  new  ventures  which  had  been  under- 
taken for  the  purpose  of  finding  employment  for  their  factories,  notably  lino- 
leums, artificial  silk,  etc.,  had  proved  quite  profitable),  that  the  Germans  had 
not  even  contemplated  any  question  of  obtaining  advances  from  Nobel  or  for 
linking  up  in  any  financial  manner,  and  in  these  circumstances  it  was  not 
thought  judicious  to  pursue  that  idea  at  any  rate  at  this  juncture. 

Towards  the  close  of  the  meeting  Mr.  Richter  produced  a  list  of  questions 
which  are  set  out  below,  together  with  the  answers  which  were  given  in  each 
case : 

(a)  Taking  it  for  granted  that  Dn  Ponts  are  to  join  the  combine,  can  Hercules 
and  other  American  companies  be  caused  to  adhere  to  the  prices? 

This  has  already  been  dealt  with  above. 

(&)  Can  the  Norwegian  company  bring  influence  to  bear  upon  the  Swedish 
company  to  abstain  from  competition? 

It  was  held  that  this  was  a  matter  for  the  Norwegian  company  to  deal  with. 

(c)  Will  the  French  abstain  from  competing  as  they  did  during  the  time  of 
the  Hota?     Can  the  same  be  guaranteed  with  regard  to  the  Belgian  works? 

The  Noliel  representatives  expressed  the  view  that  no  insurmountable  diffi- 
culty would  be  met  with  in  obtaining  the  adhesion  of  the  French  and  Belgians 
to  any  understanding,  but  they  felt  that  the  time  was  not  opportune  to  approach 
either  of  these  competitors. 

(d)  Are  the  new  Dutch  works  likely  to  come  into  the  combine? 

The  Dutch  works  are  a  very  small  producer,  destined  to  supply  the  state 
mines  in  Holland,  and  it  was  held  to  be  unlikely  that  they  had  an  eye  on  export 
business,  and  that  consequently  no  approach  should  be  made  at  this  stage. 

(e)  How  can  the  competition  of  the  Westfalish-Anhaltische  be  avoided,  who 
are  sure  to  make  excessive  claims?  and 

if)  What  about  the  Lignose,  the  Bayerische,  and  the  Gnaschwitz  Spreng- 
stoffwerke,  who  have  tried  several  times  to  gain  a  footing  with  their  Ammon- 
Calucit? 

It  was  pointed  out  that  it  was  for  the  German  concerns  to  settle  their  own 
internal  arrangements,  and  Dr.  Aufschlager  proposed  to  take  up  the  matter 
with  his  German  competitors  at  an  early  stage.  In  the  course  of  the  discussion 
Mr.  Richter  referred  to  the  possibility  of  satisfying  the  Westfalisch-Anhaltische 
by  giving  them  orders,  and  this  is  to  be  explored. 


2866  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

(fir)  Are  the  English  competitors  who  are  not  under  the  control  of  Nobel 
Industries  likely  to  also  become  competitors  in  markets  abroad? 

Sir  Harry  stated  that  he  anticipated  no  difficulty  in  dealing  with  the  small 
U.  K.  concerns  not  under  Nobel  control. 

(ft)  Is  there  any  prospect  of  bringing  the  Japanese  factories,  both  the  pri- 
vate company,  Nippon  Kayaku  Kaisha,  and  the  Government  Works,  Iwahana, 
into  line? 

It  was  recognized  that  the  situation  in  Japan  presented  exceptional  difficul- 
ties. Sir  Harry  threw  out  the  suggestion  that  it  might  be  considered  whether 
an  endeavour  should  be  made  to  bring  about  an  understanding  with  the  Nippon 
Kayaku  Kaisha  in  the  form  of  a  financial  merger.  The  German  representa- 
tives undertook  to  think  this  over. 

Lead  azide  detonators. — Mr.  Mitchell  asked  Dr.  Miiller  how  he  proposed  to 
deal  with  the  present  position  in  regard  to  lead  azide  detonators  in  the  United 
Kingdom,  pointing  out  that  in  the  Nobel  view  no  proper  patent  existed  in  the 
aluminum  tube,  and  that  it  was  open  for  any  manufacturer  to  use  that  tube,  as 
the  patent  is  wholly  invalid  for  reasons  of  lack  of  description  and  novelty.  It 
was  made  quite  clear  to  Dr.  Aiifschlager  and  Dr.  Miiller  that  the  British  com- 
panies made  it  a  condition  that  the  matter  must  be  adjusted  to  their  satisfac- 
tion, and  Dr.  Miiller  undertook  to  study  the  matter  again  pending  the  next 
meeting  and  to  hold  up  any  project  for  developing  manufacture  in  the  United 
Kingdom  until  further  discussion.  He  gave  personal  explanations  of  why  he 
did  not  approach  Nobels  in  regard  to  the  exploitation  of  his  alleged  patent  to 
the  effect  that,  as  he  did  not  anticipate  any  resumption  of  friendly  relation- 
ships, he  had  to  endeavour  to  exploit  his  invention  through  some  other  channel. 

During  the  discussion  it  was  stated  by  Dr.  Aubert  that  the  Bofors  company 
had  actually  shipped  fifty  tons  of  nitrocellulose  powder  to  the  Argentine  Gov- 
ernment, and  steps  have  been  taken  to  have  this  information  confirmed  or 
otherwise. 

Finally,  the  meeting  concluded  with  a  suggestion  that  Sir  Harry  should 
invite  the  American  representatives  to  a  meeting  to  be  held  in  the  early  days  of 
November. 

22d  OcTOBEB  1924. 

Exhibit  No.  1074 

[File:   C-3-B] 

November  21,  1924. 
Mr.  Waltek  S.  Carpenter, 

(c/o  Mr.  Jasper  E.  Crane,  54  New  Broad  Street.) 
London,  E.  C.  2,  England. 

Dear  Waltek:  The  following  is  our  version  of  the  coded  cables  received  and 
sent  to  you  to  date: 

Cable  from  H.  G.  Haskell,  dated  November  11th : 

"Adjourned  until  twenty-ninth.  Send  by  mail  to  reach  London  not  later 
than  twenty-sixth  our  exact  sales  high  explosives  caps  and  electrics  each 
South  American  country  and  Mexico  for  each  of  two  two-year  periods  ending 
June  thirtieth  nineteen  fourteen  and  June  thirtieth  nineteen  twenty-four." 

Cable  to  London  November  13th: 

"  Haskell  informatiton  asked  is  available  prior  to  January  1,  1914,  only 
by  calendar  years  stop  Mailing  Saturday  without  fail  data  "for  1912,  1913, 
first  half  1914,  1922,  1923,  first  half  1924  stop     Advise  Walter  family  all  well." 

Cable  to  London,  November  17th  : 

"  Carpenter :  Have  you  considered  getting  option  on  Coswig,  thereby  bettering 
trading  position  with  German  Nobel,  also  making  possible  advantageous  con- 
tinuation of  those  rivals?    Your  family  all  well." 

Cable  from  London  from  W.  S.  Carpenter :  Nov.  20th. 

"  Your  telegram  of  November  ISth  received  by  Haskell.  Brown  away, 
Haskell  here  tonight,  meanwhile  we  saw  Sir  Harry  McGowan  stop  For  our 
information  Coswig  controlled  by  Stinnes  interests  stop  Production  in  most 
part  consumed  by  Stinnes  operation  also.  Desire  export  outlet  stop  Sir 
Harry  McGowan  Mitchell  Stamp  (MAVJB— could  not  decode)  ;  unalterably 
opposed  to  Nobel  Industries  Ltd.  investing  in  German  Company  now  stop  In 
view  of  this,  cable  whether  you  desire  us  to  explore  possibilities  further  " 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2867 

Cable  to  London  November  20th  : 

•'Carpenter:  Your  telegram  received  duU'd  Nov.  -JOtli.  Lnnimot  and  1  believe 
explore  possibilities  desirable  " 

I  was  just  as  much  surprised  as  you  to  find  what  the  German  situation  is 
with  respect  to  their  own  internal  competition,  and  it  struck  me  right  off  the 
bat  that  it  would  be  useless  to  make  much  of  an  arrangement  with  the  Ger- 
man Nobels  leaving  out  half  of  the  German  capacity  under  control  of  Coswig 
and  others.  My  idea  was,  as  you  have  correctly  gathered,  to  acquire  an  op- 
tion at  some  price  on  Coswig,  \vith  an  idea  that  we  could  then  first  use  it  as 
a  lever  on  the  German  Nobels  for  satisfactory  terms,  and  second,  combine  the 
two  competing  organizations  so  as  to  get  greater  economy  in  manufacture  and 
eliminate  needless  competition. 

The  fact  that  Coswig  is  largely  a  consumer  organization  should  not  pre- 
clude such  a  move,  in  fact  it  is  an  added  incentive  for  putting  it  through,  for 
there  is  notliing  as  dangerous  as  a  largely  consumer  company,  which  is  at- 
tempting to  reach  out  for  other  trade.  We  recognized  that  situation  in 
Canada  and  Purvis  was  able  to  acquire  the  company  in  question.  We  have 
the  same  situation  with  Apache  and  it  is  a  serious  menace  to  the  Mexican 
business.  I  should  think  that  the  Stinnes  outfit  would  be  glad  to  make  a  con- 
tract with  a  company  controlled  by  such  an  organization  as  ours  which  would 
insure  them  of  reasonable  returns,  especially  if  those  returns  were  payable  in 
America.  I  think  we  ought  to  expect  a  bargain  because  of  the  value  of  that 
insured   tax-free  payment. 

The  tacking  on  of  words  to  the  effect  that  your  family  are  all  well  is  not 
a  formality.  I  have  stopped  at  your  house  and  inquired  for  them  before 
sending  each  of  tlie  cables.  They  are  all  happy  and  full  of  pep.  I  was  also 
delighted  to  find  how  much  better  IMrs.  Wooten  is.  She  seems  quite  spry  and 
about  the  way  she  used  to  be  ten  years  ago. 

Understand  that  Echols  has  given  you  all  the  latest  news  yesterday. 
Sincerely  yours, 

Ie^niSe  du  Pont. 

Exhibit  No.  1075 

If  we  invested  in  these  German  companies  this  investment  it  appears  to  me, 
is  justified  because  of  a  combination  of  two  reasons,  first,  the  reasonable 
prospects  in  the  long  run  of  a  fair  return  on  the  money,  and  second,  the  ad- 
vantages to  be  gained  by  Du  Pont  through  the  closer  contact  with  those 
companies,  particularly  as  regards  future  development.  It  seems  to  me  that 
an  attempt  on  our  part  to  inject  into  our  negotiations  with  the  Germans  any- 
special  precautionary  measures  such  as  the  above  are  not  compatible  with  our 
status  as  a  stockholder  and  may  largely  destroy  the  spirit  of  fellowship  and 
partnership  which  it  is  hoped  this  investment  will  engender.  I  think  it  will 
be  necessary  for  us  to  work  with  Nobel  in  this  and  do  as  they  do,  but  I  would 
recommend  to  the  finance  committee  that  they  do  not  impose  the  adoption  of 
one  or  more  of  these  measures  as  a  condition  of  their  approval. 

(The  above  is  paragraph  3,  on  page  3.  of  report  to  finance  committee,  from 
Treasurer  W.  S.  Carpenter,  Jr.,  dated  October  2nd,  1925.) 


Exhibit  No.  1076 

Commercial  Aspect  of  Proposaii 

The  above  deals  with  the  financial  aspect,  but  the  second  and,  to  my  mind, 
even  more  important  point  than  obtaining  5%  return  is  the  fact  that"  by  the 
introduction  of  this  money  we  secure  a  closer  and  more  binding  community 
of  interests  than  is  practicable  by  any  other  form  of  cooperation.  In  our  nego- 
tiations for  trading  understandings  we  have  found  the  German  people  very 
reasonable,  and  we  have  succeeded  in  securing  agreement  to  their  total  ab- 
stention for  a  period  of  five  years  from  competition  with  us  in  any  of  the 
British  markets,  and  I  feel  sure  that  we  shall  get  agreement — provided'  we  join 
financially  with  them — to  making  that  period  ten  years.  They  have  also"  ex- 
pressed their  willingness  to  leave  the  African  Company's  territory  alone  and  to 
work  jointly  with  us  in  those  markets  in  which  we  are  both  interested.     Fur- 


2868  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

ther,  agreement  has  been  reached  that  they  will  refrain  fi'om  doing  anything 
likely  to  prejudice  the  interests  of  the  various  companies  in  which  we  are 
interested  in  the  Balkan  States.  All  these  undertakings  will,  I  am  sure,  sub- 
stantially strengthen  our  position  in  the  various  export  markets  and  will  en- 
able us  to  make  our  business  there  far  more  remunerative  than  would  be  pos- 
sible in  competition.  Another  important  aspect  which  should  not  only  improve 
the  financial  return  to  the  German  companies  themselves  but  have  a  beneficial 
effect  on  our  foreign  trade,  is  that  they  have  now  come  to  agreement  with 
their  German  competitors  for  a  quota  allocation  of  the  home-  trade,  and  as  a 
direct  outcome  of  this  there  is  every  hope  that  we  shall  be  able  to  induce  those 
competitors  to  refrain  from,  or  restrict  their  activities  in,  competition  with  us. 
(The  above  is  paragraph  1  on  page  8  of  report  from  H.  McGowan  to  the 
directors  of  Nobel  Industries,  Ltd.,  dated  September  14,  1925,  and  attached  to 
report  to  finance  committee  from  treasurer  dated  October  2nd,  192r>. ) 


Exhibit  No.  1077 
[File  C-3-B] 

E.  I.  Du  PoNT  DE  Nemours  &  Co., 
Wilmington,  Delawark,  U.  S.  A., 

European  Office,  Capel  House, 
54  New  Brood  Street,  London,  E.  C.  2,  December  11,  1926. 

PERSONAL    &    CONFIDENTIAL 

Du  PoNT  Nitrate  Co., 

Wilmington,  Delaivare,  U.  S.  A.,  Valparaiso,  Chile. 
Copy  to  Messrs.  Lamot  du  Pont,  pres. ;  H.  G.  Haskell,  V.  P. 
Mr.  Jasper  E.  Crane, 

Lazote,  Inc. 

Your  letters  of  November  29th  and  December  2nd  have  been  received,  and  T 
arranged  an  interview  with  Sir  Harry  at  the  first  available  time,  which  turned 
out  to  be  yesterday,  Dec.  16th. 

I  opened  the  discussion  along  the  lines  that  you  suggested,  and  at  first  Sir 
Harry  seemed  moderately  hopeful  that  there  might  be  a  possibility  of  arrang- 
ing some  cooperation  in  the  field  of  ammonia  between  du  Pont  and  Imperial 
Chemical  Industries.,  Ltd.  He  said,  however,  that  it  would  be  impossible  to  do 
anything  at  the  present  time  as  there  were  other  factors  which  would  have 
to  be  considered,  and  then  went  on  to  give  me  a  general  picture  of  what  he  and 
Sir  Alfred  Mond  had  in  mind  in  the  matter  of  international  agreements.  He 
cautioned  me  several  times  that  this  was  an  extremely  confidential  matter  and 
must  on  no  account  be  allowed  to  leak  out. 

When  Sir  Harry  was  in  New  York  he  met  Sir  Alfred  Mond  there  and  in  the 
course  of  a  couple  of  hours'  conversation  these  two  had  reached  practical 
agreement  to  consolidate  the  Britisli  chemical  ^  industries  in  a  single  company. 
The  details  of  this  agreement  were  arranged  shortly  after  the  return  of  Sir 
Harry  to  London,  with  the  result  which  you  now  know.  While  in  New  York 
Professor  Bosch  was  informed  of  the  proposed  amalgamation,  and  expressed 
himself  as  extremely  well  pleased,  and  it  was  arranged  that  he  would  stop 
off  in  London  on  his  return  to  Germany.  Unfortunately,  however,  he  con- 
tracted influenza  on  the  voyage  and  proceeded  direct  to  Heidelberg.  A  meeting 
has  been  suggested  between  Sir  Alfred  Mond,  Sir  Harry  McGowan,  and  Profes- 
sor Bosch  in  Paris  for  the  second  weelc  in  February,  and  it  is  probable  that 
this  arrangement  will  be  carried  through.  An  earlier  meeting  is  impossible 
because  Sir  Alfred  Mond  is  leaving  in  a  day  or  so  for  a  holiday  in  the  south 
of  France,  and  Sir  Harrv  McGowan  is  going  in  January  for  a  holiday  in 
Egypt. 

Sir  Harry  explained  that  tl>e  formation  of  I.  C.  I.  is  only  the  first  step  in 
a  compreliensive  scheme  which  he  has  in  mind  to  rationalize  chemical  manu- 
facture of  the  world.  The  details  of  such  a  scheme  are  not  worked  out,  not 
even  in  Sir  Harry's  own  mind,  but  the  broad  picture  includes  working  arrange- 
ments between  three  groups — the  I.  G.  in  Germany,  Imperial  Chemical  Indus- 
tries, in  the  British  Empire  and  du  Ponts  and  the  Allied  Chemical  &  Dye  in 
America.    The  next  step  in  the  scheme  is  ay  arrangement  of  some  sort  between 

1  Correction. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2869 

the  Germans  and  tbe  British.  He  appreciates  fully,  or  at  least  he  says  he  does, 
the  supreme  difficulty  in  the  way  of  the  final  step,  namely,  the  personality  of 
the  management  of  the  Allied  Chemical  &  Dye.  In  spite  of  this  he  is  hopeful 
that  a  satisfactory  arrangement  can  be  come  to.  He  hopes  to  develop  some 
scheme  involving  financial  ties  binding  the  three  groups  together.  By  this  he 
does  not  mean  exchange  of  shares  so  that  each  company  will  own  part  of  the 
shares  of  the  other  two.  Just  what  he  has  in  mind  I  could  not  learn,  and  it 
is  possible  that  the  thing  is  too  intangible  at  present  for  him  to  express  it. 

Sir  Harry's  attitude  during  the  first  part  of  our  discussion  was  sufficiently 
hopeful  to  lead  me  to  suggest  the  questions  of  contact  hydrogen  and  methanol, 
but  after  we  developed  the  subject  further,  it  seemed  evident  that  there  was  no 
prospect  of  getting  any  immediate  satisfaction.  The  question  of  contact  liydro- 
gen  cannot  be  discussed,  he  says,  until  the  broader  questions  of  international 
cooperation  are  settled.  When  I  mentioned  methanol,  he  explained  that  I.  C.  I. 
had  very  definite  plans  to  manufacture  methanol  in  England  within  the  next 
year.  As  Major  Bai'ley  already  knew,  through  conversations  he  had  had  in 
Wilmington,  about  our  proposed  methanol  manufacture,  I  explained  that  the 
process  we  expected  to  use,  we  believed,  would  be  unique  and  of  unusual  ad- 
vantage from  the  standpoint  of  cost,  especially  if  used  in  conjunction  with  the 
manufacture  of  synthetic  ammonia.  I  added  that  I  hoped  our  relations  with 
I.  C.  I.  would  be  sufliciently  close  to  place  us  in  a  position  where  we  should  be 
able  to  offer  this  process  to  them.  Here,  again,  there  is  nothing  to  be  done  until 
after  the  Paris  meeting. 

I  also  mentioned  the  question  of  the  possible  sale  of  your  ammonia  companies 
in  Australia.  He  rather  brushed  this  aside,  saying  that  the  I.  C.  I.  had  very 
definite  plans  to  manufacture  synthetic  ammonia  in  Australia.  I  do  not  feel 
that  this  is  at  all  hopeless,  however,  and  it  is  quite  possible  that  later  on  they 
would  be  glad  to  give  consideration  to  acquiring  the  going  concerns  in  which  you 
have  such  an  important  share  interest. 

I  inquired  whether  the  Brunner,  Mond  organization  were  disposed  to  be 
fi'iendly  with  us,  and  Sir  HaiTy  replied  that  he  could  at  any  rate  say  their 
attitude  was  not  unfriendly.  He  did  not  propose  to  have  the  twenty  years' 
friendship  which  the  Nobel  Company  and  he  personally  had  enjoyed  with  the 
du  Pont  Company  and  du  Pont  officials  terminated  as  a  result  of  the  formation 
of  I.  C.  I.,  and  he  expected  to  be  able  to  influence  the  other  members  of  the 
amalgamation  in  our  direction,  and  he  rei>eatedly  assured  me  that  he  would  use 
every  effort  to  do  this. 

The  only  ominous  note  in  our  whole  conversation  was  his  final  word  that 
he  would  see  to  it  that  no  hostile  steps  against  the  du  Pont  Company  were 
taken  by  I.  C.  I.  or  any  combination  which  they  might  arrange  with  the  Germans 
without  telling  us  of  it  beforehand.  He  repeated  this  twice.  This  is  perhaps 
capable  of  several  interpretations,  but  to  me  personally  it  indicates  that  while 
he  will  do  everything  reasonably  possible  to  maintain  his  friendship  with  us, 
nevertheless  if  the  interests  of  the  larger  scheme  demand  it,  he  will  regretfully 
accept  the  principle  of  the  greatest  good  for  the  greatest  number. 

In  the  course  of  our  conversation  I  mentioned  our  joint  financial  interests  in 
various  companies,  and  expressed  the  belief  that  I.  C.  I.'s  interest  in  General 
Motors  would  exceed  their  holdings  in  Allied  Chemical.  Personally,  I  was  a 
little  in  doubt  about  this,  but  strictly  speaking.  I  find  it  is  true.  Sir  Harry 
did  not  know  the  extent  of  their  holdings  in  Allied,  but  he  believed  that  Brunner^ 
Monds,  together  with  Belgian  Solvay,  held  about  25%  of  the  total  common  stock 
of  the  Allied  Chemical  &  Dye  Co.  This  agrees  with  my  impression.  The  figures 
which  I  have  understood  to  be  true  were  that  Brunner,  Monds  held  100,000  shares 
and  Belgian  Solvay  400,000.  I  have  always  supposed,  rightly  or  wrongly,  that 
these  two  together  could  be  considered  as  a  unit  so  far  as  any  influence  they 
might  exert  on  the  conduct  of  affairs  in  Allied  Chemical.  I  may  be  quite  wrong 
about  this,  but  at  the  first  chance  I  shall  try  to  find  out  just  what  the  relation- 
ship between  Brunner,  Monds  and  the  Belgian  Solvay  is.  Nobels'  present  hold- 
ing in  General  Motors  is  150,000  shares.  Taking  the  par  value  of  their  invest- 
ment in  General  Motors,  together  with  the  par  value  of  their  investments  in 
C.  X.  L.,  Northern  Giant,  the  Chilean  Explosives  Co.,  and  Nobel  Chemical 
Finishes,  Ltd.,  this  gives  a  total  of  approximately  $25,000,000 ;  i.  e.,  I.  C.  I.  will 
inherit  Nobels'  investments  to  the  extent  of  $25,000,000  in  companies  which  are 
very  closely  associated  with  the  du  Pont  Company.  If  we  consider  Belgian 
Solvay  and  Brunner,  Monds  as  a  single  group,  the  corresponding  figure  for 
I.  C.  I.'s  interest  in  Allied  would  be  $50,000,000.  If  the  relationship  is  not  so 
close,  I.  C,  I.'s  interest  alone  would  be  $10,000,000 ;  all  of  the  above  at  parity. 


2870  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

I  am  sure  you  will  understand  Sir  Harry's  insistence  on  the  confidential  nature 
of  his  talk  with  me  and  be  guided  accordingly.  I  shall  make  a  special  effort 
to  see  Mr.  Pickard  before  he  sails  home  and  acquaint  him  with  this  situation. 
His  present  plans  are  uncertain,  and  it  is  possible  that  he  may  get  to  England. 
If  he  does  not,  I  shall  make  sure  to  see  him  in  Paris  before  he  sails. 

If  you  have  any  further  instructions  or  suggestions  in  connection  with  coop- 
eration on  synthetic  ammonia,  I  shall  be  glad  to  receive  them. 

In  accordance  with  your  request,  I  gave  you  the  gist  of  the  above  in  our  cable 
of  today,  copy  of  which  is  attached. 

WRS/AAD.     Enc.  conf.  of  cable. 


Wendell  R.  Swint. 


Exhibit  No.  1078 
[MS-SO-A.     T-763] 

Bureau  Technique, 
Jfl  Avenue  de  L'Opera,  Paris,  November  3,  1926. 
Nobel  agreement. 
Major  K.  K.  V.  Casey, 

E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co., 

Wilmington,  Del. 

Dear  Sir-  1  During  the  week  of  October  the  11th  I  was  in  London  discussing 
the  details  of  cooperation  with  Nobel,  in  view  of  the  remit  of  the  Wilmington 
minutes  of  July  20th,  1926,  whereby  it  was  agreed  that  the  Nobel  and  du  Pont 
military  sales  departments  would  cooperate  in  Europe.  There  were  many 
delays  in  coming  to  this  agreement,  due  to  the  vacation  period,  and  immediately 
after  the  Nobel  people  were  very  much  occupied  with  the  formation  of  the  new 
consolidation  of  the  British  Chemical  Industries.  For  the  information  of  the 
smokeless-powder  department,  if  they  have  not  been  othenvise  informed  the 
British  Chemical  Industries,  including  Nobel,  British  Dyestuffs,  and  some  ot  the 
similar  industries,  are  considering  a  consolidation  which  may  result  m  the 
formation  of  a  new  comjiany  in  which  Nobel  may  be  absorbed. 

2  I  am  attaching  to  this  letter  a  description  of  the  agreement  which  we  have 
come  to  This  is  not  the  final  official  copy,  but  it  expresses  entirely  the  agree- 
ment arrived  at,  and  the  final  copy  will  be  the  same,  and  I  am  expecting  tc 
receive  it  any  day  from  London. 

3.  I  will  now  discuss  the  agreement  point  by  point. 

Above  extract  taken  from  page  1  to  paragraph  1  of  letter  of  Mr.  W.  N.  Taylor 
to  Maior  K.  K.  V.  Casey,  under  date  of  November  3,  1926. 

Par  8.  I  aim  to  prepare  a  monthly  report  for  my  territory,  a  copy  of  which 
«oes  to  Wilmington,  Vienna,  and  London,  covering  the  entire  business  of  both 
Barties.  Vienna  is  to  prepare  a  monthly  report,  with  a  copy  for  me  and  a  copj 
for  Wilmington,  covering  business  in  their  territory.  The  duty  of  Mr.  Smith 
and  myself,  to  work  out  the  allocations  the  best  we  can.      ,  ^^  ^  ,      .„     . 

Par.  9.  I  am  to  give  Mr.  Smith  prices  on  our  goods,  and  Nobel  will  give  me 
prices  on  their  goods.  .  ,     „  ,,  ^  ^_^^ 

Par  10  Nobel  have  already  issued  to  me  powers  covering  most  of  the  coun- 
tries where  I  am  to  work  for  them,  but  these  powers  will  have  to  be  alterec 
in  their  expression,  as  they  are  too  personal  and  apply  to  my  personality  rathei 
than  10  my  function  as  a  representative  of  the  du  Pont  Company.  We  musl 
give  Mr.  Smith  a  letter  of  some  kind  of  power  so  that  he  will  be  able  to  prop- 
Irly  represent  us,  and  I  propose  to  write  the  following  letter  to  Mr.  Smith  anc 
sign  it  in  the  name  of  the  company  covering  each  couni  ry  in  ^yhlch  he  repre 
gents  us  This  will  permit  him  to  start  negotiations.  It  would  be  preferable 
of  course,  if  these  letters  were  signed  in  Wilmington,  but  in  order  to  save  tim( 
I  feel  sure  you  will  permit  me  to  sign  these  letters, 

SAMPLE 

■"  Mr.  L.  W.  BicKFORD  Smith, 

"  Bruckncrstranse  8,  Vienna,  IV,  Austria. 
"Dear  Sir:  This  letter  is  to  certify  that  Nobel  Industries,  Ltd.,  are  oui 
authorized  agents  for  the  sale  of  propellant  powders,  trinitrotoluol,  and  mtro- 
cotton  in  the  State  of ,  and,  therefore,  you,  as  their  representative,  arc 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2871 

fully  accredited  to  conduct  all  negotiations  for  the  above-mentioned  materials 
on  our  behali. 

"  Very  truly  yours," 

In  case  that  a  power  of  attorney  is  needed  in  a  specific  instance  by  Mr.  Smith, 
I  presume  you  will  have  no  objections  to  sending  him  one. 

Par.  11.  This  confirms  the  principle  of  the  original  sale  to  arms  manufac- 
turers in  our  respective  countries;  but  in  case  we  push  a  cartridge  order  to 
Kynochs  furnished  to  them  by  Nobel  counts  in  the  quota.  This  is  very  useful, 
as  it  gives  us  an  European  cartridge  factory  to  play  with. 

Par.  12.  This  is  self-explanatory. 

Par.  13.  This  is  an  assurance  that  Nobel  considers  us  her  first  friend,  as  the 
TchecoslovaUs  are  the  only  military  factory  on  the  continent  in  which  they  are 
profoundly  interested,  Spain  having  been  settled  by  a  previous  agreement. 

Above  extract  is  taken  from  page  3,  beginning  with  "  paragraph  8  ",  of  letter 
of  Mr.  W.  N.  Taylor  to  Major  K.  K.  V.  Casey,  under  date  of  Nov.  3,  1926. 

Par.  14.  Due  to  Mussolini's  attitude  towards  importation,  it  is  necessary  for 
us  to  have  inside  help  to  sell  to  Italy,  and  we  think  we  may  be  able  to  make 
an  arrangement  with  an  Italian  factory  through  relations  with  the  Societe 
Centrale  des  Explosives,  manufacturing  Ballistite  only,  for  furnishing  N.  C. 
when  desired. 

Pars.  15,  16,  and  17  are  self-explanatory. 

Par.  18.  In  the  arrangement  made  between  Nobel  and  the  Germans  and  in 
the  arrangement  contemplated  by  our  people  with  the  Germans,  no  mention  was 
made  of  military  material  at  all,  it  being  taken  for  granted  that  the  matter 
would  not  come  up  and  that  it  was  settled  by  the  Treaty  of  Versailles.  But 
now  we  have  to  face  the  fact  that  the  Germans  have  been  admitted  into  the 
League  of  Nations,  and  in  accordance  with  the  Treaty  of  Versailles  once  they 
are  admitted  to  the  League  they  come  under  the  supervision  of  the  Council  of 
the  League  as  to  the  manufacture  and  export  of  military  material  which  may 
at  any  time  allow  them  to  enter  this  field,  and  the  Germans  have  already 
requested  the  Council  to  consider  this  matter. 

Mr.  Marquardt,  of  the  Hamburg  Nobel,  had  a  conversation  with  Nobel  in 
which  he  asked  them  if  they  would  not  do  something  to  guard  what  they  called 
their  international  position  in  explosives  in  the  case  of  their  beginning  the  sale 
of  military  explosives,  and  the  Nobel  people  said  that  they  were  willing  to 
maintain  their  attitude ;  that  there  was  nothing  in  their  agreement  that  entitled 
the  Germans  to  any  consideration  as  regards  their  military  material  position. 
They  therefore  wrote  to  Mr.  Marquardt  telling  him  so.  I  have  not  a  copy  of 
their  letter,  but  I  have  a  copy  of  Mr.  Marquardt's  answer,  which  I  enclose. 
Nobel,  however,  says  that  in  case  the  Council  of  the  League  officially  permits 
Germany  to  reenter  the  manufacture  and  export  of  military  material  that  they 
will  have  to  reconsider  the  whole  business,  including  their  relations  with  the 
Germans  and  their  relations  with  us  on  the  continent,  regarding  military 
material.  This  is  a  very  serious  matter,  and  our  officials  who  deal  with  such 
matters  should  prepare  themselves  to  the  eventuality  of  having  to  reconsider 
these  various  agreements  in  the  case  of  the  Germans  becoming  fully  author- 
ized by  the  League  of  Nations  to  reenter  the  field  of  the  manufacture  and 
export  of  military  material.  Not  being  familiar  with  the  matter.  I  can  offer 
no  suggestions  except  to  report  the  reaction  our  conversations  with  the  Germans 
and  Nobel's  have  on  my  business  as  mentioned  in  paragraph  18.  While 
nothing  has  been  said,  I  think  that  Nobel  feels  that  it  may  be  necessary  for 
both  du  Pont  and  Nobel  to  withdraw  from  the  military  field  in  Europe  when 
Germany  is  released  by  the  League. 

I  telegraphed  to  you  the  points  which  I  thought  would  be  most  vital  for  you 
to  know  and  you  telegraphed  back  your  approval.  I  therefore  presume  that  you 
will  approve  this  arrangement,  and  I  will  continue  to  work  as  if  you  have 
approved  it,  as  the  sales  season  is  coming  on  and  we  must  not  lose  any  more 
time  to  put  this  matter  in  operation. 
Very  truly  yours, 

(S)     WiLijAM  N.  Tayloe. 

V7NT/AK. 

The  above  is  page  4  in  full  of  letter  of  Mr.  W.  N.  Taylor  to  Major  K.  K.  V. 
Casey,  under  date  of  November  8,  1926. 


2872  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Exhibit  No.  1079 

[File   SP-410-AFduP] 

December  22,  1926. 
Du   Pont-Nobel   cooperation — Sales    of   military    propellant   powders   and   ex- 
plosives. 
To:  Executive  Committee  (M.  D.  Fislier,  secretary). 
From :  H.  G.  Hasl^ell  and  A.  Felix  du  Pont. 

The  following  suggested  arrangement,  whereby  cooperation  will  be  brought 
about  in  the  sales  of  propellant  powders  and  other  material  for  military  pur- 
poses, is  hereby  set  forth  and  recommended.  Mr.  J.  P.  LafCey  has  been  con- 
sulted in  regard  to  the  legal  aspects  of  this  proposition  and  advises  that  there 
is  no  objection  from  that  standpoint  to  entering  into  such  an  arrangement. 

In  accordance  with  the  remit  of  the  Wilmington  minutes  (military)  of  July 
20th,  1926,  that  Colonel  Taylor  and  Mr.  Major  should  discuss  details  of  the 
du  Pont-Nobel  cooperation  in  Europe,  the  following  arrangement,  subject  to 
ratification  by  the  Nobel  and  du  Pont  administration,  resulted  from  a  meeting 
held  in  London  on  October  14,  1926. 

Present:  Colonel  W.  N.  Taylor,  Mr.  A.  G.  Major,  Mr.  J.  Laing,  Mr.  L.  W.  B 
Smith,  Mr.  W.  Shearer,  Mr.  R.  B.  Brown. 

1.  The  products  embraced  within  the  scope  of  this  arrangement  are  the  fol- 
lowing, for  naval  and  military  purposes  only :  Propellant  powders,  trinitro- 
toluol, tetryl,  nitrocellulose  for  propellant  powders. 

2.  The  du  Pont  office  in  Paris,  administered  by  Colonel  Taylor,  to  supervise 
the  following  territory  both  on  behalf  of  du  Pont  and  Nobel :  France,  Belgium, 
Holland,  Denmark,  Sweden,  Finland,  Esthonia,  Latvia,  Lithuania,  Poland. 

3.  The  Nobel  office  in  Vienna,  administered  by  Mr.  L.  "W.  B.  Smith,  to  super- 
vise the  following  territory  both  on  behalf  of  Nobel  and  du  Pont:  Austria, 
Czechoslovakia,  Jugoslavia,  Roumania,  Bulgaria,  Greece,  Turkey. 

4.  Expenses  of  the  Paris  and  Vienna  oflBces  to  be  borne  by  du  Pont  and 
Nobel,  respectively. 

5.  Nobel's  agents  in  the  territory  falling  under  the  supervision  of  du  Pout's 
to  refrain  from  offering  the  products  falling  under  the  scope  of  this  arrange- 
ment, and  similarly  to  du  Pont  agents  in  the  territory  falling  under  the  super- 
vision of  Nobel's  to  abstain  from  offering  the  products  coming  within  the  scope 
of  this  arrangement,  except  by  special  agreement  between  the  principals. 

6.  Allocation  of  sales  between  Noliel  and  du  Pont  to  be  determined  in  the 
following  proportions : 

Combined  sales  of  nitrocellulose  poic-ders. — Du  Pont  to  Nobel  7:3. 

Combined  sales  of  TNT. — Nobel  to  du  Pont  7 :  3. 

Nitroglycerin  poivders. — Total  sales  to  Nobel. 

Notwithstanding  the  above  proportions,  Nobel  agree  in  respect  to  N.  C. 
powder  to  limit  their  quota  to  a  yearly  maximum  of  30O  tons,  whilst  du  Pont 
agree  in  respect  to  TNT  to  limit  their  quota  to  a  yearly  maximum  of  300  tons. 

It  is  recognized  that  in  actual  practice  these  quotas  may  not  be  adhered  to. 
and  it  is  therefore  suggested  to  the  Du  Pont  and  Nobel  management  that  at 
the  end  of  each  year  adjustment  shall  be  made  for  services  rendered  in  the 
event  of  one  party  obtaining  an  overquota  by  the  payment  of  some  agreed 
amount  per  unit  of  oversales. 

7.  With  a  view  to  the  interchange  of  information  on  cordite  and  nitrocellulose 
powders  as  between  Colonel  Taylor  and  Nobel  technicians,  arrangements  to  be 
made  for  Colonel  Taylor  to  have  detailed  discussions  with  the  Nobel  technical 
department.  It  is  understood  that  as  and  when  occasion  demands.  Colonel 
Taylor  is  to  be  provided  with  technical  assistance  from  Nobel  necessitated  by 
inquiries  from  his  territory,  whilst  reciprocally  Mr.  Smith  may  call  for  tech- 
nical assistance  from  Colonel  Taylor  where  necessary. 

8.  Copies  of  all  correspondence  to  be  exchanged  between  the  Paris  and  Vienna 
offices  shall  be  sent  to  the  Nobel  offices  in  London. 

9.  It  is  suggested  that  minimum  prices  acceptable  to  the  principals  be  indi- 
cated to  Colonel  Taylor  and  to  Mr.  Smith,  also  that  the  credit  policy  be  defined 
as  regards  specific  countries. 

10.  Colonel  Taylor  to  be  provided  with  a  power  of  attorney  from  Nobel,  should 
experience  show  this  to  be  desirable,  whilst  reciprocally  provision  to  be  made  for 
Mr.  Smith  to  be  granted  a  power  of  attorney  by  Du  Pont  should  occasion  de- 
mand, but,  irrespective  of  powers  of  attorney,  each  party  to  be  furnished  with 
credentials  designed  to  give  them  entry  to  war  offices,  government  departments, 
etc.,  on  behalf  of  both  Nobel  and  Du  Pont. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2873 

11.  Business  emanating  through  armament  firms,  including  Kynocli,  Limited, 
to  be  excluded  from  the  terms  hereof,  but  should  Colonel  Taylor  be  instrumental 
in  diverting  ammunition  orders  to  Kynoch,  Limited,  the  powder  used  for  loading 
such  ammunition  to  form  part  of  the  respective  quotas  according  to  whether 
it  be  made  in  America  or  at  Ardeer. 

12.  Blasting  explosives  and  other  products  manufactured  by  the  principals 
are  specifically  excluded  from  the  scope  of  this  arrangement,  and  Colonel 
Taylor  undertakes  to  refer  any  inquiries  he  may  receive  respecting  explosives 
for  industrial  purposes  to  Nobel. 

13.  With  regard  to  Czechoslovak  Explosives,  Ltd.,  it  is  iinderstood  that  where 
this  firm  meets  us  in  competition  in  countries  outside  Czechoslovakia,  then  they 
shall  be  treated  as  ordinary  competitors,  unless  Mr.  L.  W.  B.  Smith  can  find 
some  means  of  compromise  on  any  particular  order. 

14.  Italy:  It  is  considered  that  for  the  time  being  Italy  should  be  handled 
through  Nobel's  French  connections. 

15.  Government  objection  or  prohibition  shall  be  a  valid  excuse  on  the  part 
of  either  of  the  parties  hereto  to  decline  to  make  disclosure  of  information 
pertaining  to  products  within  the  scope  of  this  arrangement. 

16.  It  is  agreed  that  this  arrangement  shall  not  entail  the  exchange  of  costs. 

17.  The  arrangement  to  be  for  twelve  months  and  to  continue  thereafter 
unless  either  party  gives  three  months'  notice  to  terminate. 

18.  In  the  event  of  the  embargo  under  the  Versailles  Treaty  on  the  export  of 
propellants  and  military  ammunition  from  Germany  being  partially  or  wholly 
removed,  tliis  arrangement  to  be  reviewed. 

H.  G.  HAsKEi-ii  AND  A.  Fehjx  Du  Pont. 
AFduP  :F. 

Exhibit  No.  1080 

[Copy] 

[File.     C.   S.  A.  E.     I.  C.  I.  Explosives.     I.   C.   I.  Military.     I.   G.   Explosives] 

NoBEL  House,  Buckingham  Gate, 

London,  S.W.,  1,  21st  May,  1928. 
South  America  and  the  Germans. 
Lammot  du  Pont,  Esq., 

President  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Netnours, 

Wilmington,  Delaware. 
Dear  Mb.  Lammot  du  Pont:  Our  German  friends  have  been  advised  by  their 
agents  in  Valparaiso  that  the  government  are  issuing  enquiries  for  the  erec- 
tion of  a  TNT  factory  in  Chile.  It  is  not  clear  yet  whether  the  Germans  are 
aware  that  the  whole  question  of  propellants  is  being  examined  by  the  Chilean 
Government,  but  I  should  say  that  they  do  know.  At  any  rate  they  ask  us 
what  we  know  of  the  matter,  and,  therefore,  we  must  show  our  hand  to  some 
extent  in  answering  them. 

We  have  discussed  the  matter  and  we  feel  that  a  question  of  principle  arises 
on  which  we  should  like  to  liave  your  opinion.  The  question  to  be  answered 
is  whether  on  South  American  propellant  factories,  in  general,  we  should 
cooperate  with  the  Germans. 

The  case  as  we  see  it  is  as  follows : 

(1)  Despite  the  Treaty  of  Versailles  the  Germans  can  compete  with  us  in 
Chile  or  elsewhere  as  we  cannot  prevent  the  export  of  brains  and  the  manu- 
facture of  plant ;  they  could  easily  obtain  any  plant  they  might  require  from 
a  neutral  country. 

(2)  Many  hold  the  opinion  that  it  will  not  be  long  before  Germany,  as  regards 
armaments,  will  be  put  on  identical  terms  with  the  other  signatories  to  the 
Locarno  agreement ;  it  therefore  may  be  that  at  some  future  date  we  may 
want  to  collaborate  with  them  in  propellant  business  as  we  do  on  industrial 
explosives. 

Supposing  we  and  Du  Ponts  tender  for  the  Chilean  Government  military 
factory  without  reference  to  the  Germans,  we  may  expect  them  to  compete. 
Unless  finance  would  be  a  stumbling  block,  they  would  probably  be  low 
bidders. 

83876^.^5— PT  12 16 


2874  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Witli  regard  Lo  Chile,  one  could  reasonably  advance  the  argument  that  the 
Germans,  by  refusing  to  take  financial  participation  in  the  Chile  Company, 
have  ruled  themselves  out  of  participation  in  any  scheme  that  is  being  worked 
out  by  the  Chile  company,  and  if  it  is  desired  to  offer  them  a  sliare,  then  it 
might  quite  well  be  agreed  that  they  should  take  it  through  the  Chile  company. 
This  might  offer  a  solution  of  quota  difficulties  with  Hamburg  in  Chile  and 
Bolivia. 

As  the  Chilean  factory  proposals  have  now  taken  definite  shape,  and  as  the 
Germans  are  asking  us  for  our  views,  I  should  feel  obliged  if  you  would  let  us 
have  a  cable  from  you  when  you  have  had  time  to  consider  this  matter. 

With  kind  regard, 
Yours  sincerely, 

(Signed)     H.  J,  MiTCHEax. 

('•  Exhibit  No.  1081  "  appears  in  test  on  p.  2795.) 


Exhibit  No.  1082 

[Copy] 

December  26,  1928. 
I,  G.  Nitrogen  Plans  in  United  States. 
Mr.  F.  W.  PiCKAKD, 

%  London  Office: 

This  will  confirm  our  cable  of  December  22nd. 

Mr.  Burton,  president  of  the  American  Agricultural  Chemical  Company,  re- 
cently told  me  that  there  would  be  a  third  large  synthetic  ammonia  plant  in  this 
country,  as  foreign  interests  were  going  to  build  a  plant  and  had  already 
arranged  for  the  necessary  financing.  Mr.  MacDowell,  president  of  the  Armour 
fertilizer  works,  has  just  told  me  that  the  I.  G.  are  going  ahead  with  a  synthetic 
ammonia  plant,  not  from  natural  gas,  but  located  in  the  coal  fields,  and  he 
appeared  to  have  received  this  information  from  Mr.  Krauch  or  Mr.  Schneider, 
who,  as  you  know,  have  been  over  here.  Carl  Peters  has  given  out  an  interview 
that  the  I.  G.  are  considering  building  a  synthetic  ammonia  plant  in  the  United 
States  in  alliance  with  a  powerful  industrial  group  who  are  not  now  engaged 
in  nitrogen  fixation. 

These  statements  were  sufficiently  affirmative  to  make  us  think  that  a  U.  S. 
plant  is  again  receiving  serious  consideration  by  the  I.  G.,  and  it  is  bad  news. 
My  feeling  is  that  ultimately  we  will,  by  our  own  efficiency,  stand  on  our  own 
feet  and  not  be  fearful  that  a  second  large  competitor  will  become  established  in 
the  ammonia  field,  but  that  during  the  next  two  or  three  years  there  is  grave 
danger  of  increased  competition  which  once  established  would  always  have  to 
be  dealt  with,  and  that  we  should  do  everything  we  can  to  keep  the  I.  G.  from 
coming  in. 

In  the  talks  in  Heidelberg  a  year  ago  Bosch  was  very  emphatic  in  stating  that 
the  building  of  additional  ammonia  plants  anywhere  was  "  a  foolishness  ",  and 
in  answer  to  Lammot  du  Pout's  query  about  their  own  building  projects  he 
stated  very  warmly  that  these  were  all  under  weigh  and  they  would  not  build 
any  more  ammonia  plants ;  he  had  stated  that  before,  was  ready  to  state  it 
again,  that  they  would  give  an  undertaking  not  to  build  any  more  ammonia 
plants.  Also  you  will  remember  that  their  great  interest  in  our  project  seemed 
to  be  particularly  along  the  line  of  limiting  the  size  of  the  American  plant. 
So,  if  they  are  seriously  considering  an  ammonia  plant  in  the  United  States  it 
is  absolutely  inconsistent  with  their  declared  policy  a  year  ago.  The  overpro- 
duction they  spoke  about  then  seems  even  more  sure  now  to  be  in  process  of 
realization. 

You  will  recall  that  the  upshot  of  our  negotiations  with  the  I.  G.  a  year  ago 
was  that  we  could  not  get  together  on  the  control  of  the  enterprise,  particularly 
as  affecting  the  size  of  the  plant,  and  that  they  proposed  to  hold  the  whole 
matter  in  abeyance  and  see  us  again  in  May  of  this  past  year,  which  they  did 
not  do. 

I  have  discussed  the  whole  matter  with  the  executive  committee,  and  the 
president  has  approved  the  cable  sent  to  you.    We  feel  here  that  it  would  be 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


2875 


well  to  take  a  stronger  line  on  this  subject  than  we  have  hitherto,  and  try  to 
Convey  to  them  the  unwisdom  of  invading  this  country  by  manufacturing  nitro- 
PS  products  here,   which   would   lead  us   to  take  steps   to  protect  our   own 

'''l''hope'you  can  talk  it  all  over  with  Professor  Bosch.  If  he  says  that  they  are 
not  going  ahead,  well  and  good.  If  he  admits  that  they  are  considering  the 
establishment  of  an  American  company,  you  may  think  it  wise  to  point  out 
that  this  is  inconsistent  with  their  declared  policy  and  an  unfriendly  act  to 
the  Du  Pont  interests.  We  have  gone  ahead  to  enlarge  our  plant,  as  we  told 
them  we  would,  but  we  do  not  propose  to  go  beyond  the  present  moderate-size 
Dlant  of  125  tons  of  ammonia  a  day  until  further  expansion  is  thoroutih  y 
iustified  The  Allied  plant  at  Hopewell,  we  now  definitely  learn,  will  promptly 
have  a  capacity  of  300  tons  a  day.  These  two  plants  will  take  care  ot  American 
needs,  and  there  is  no  economic  reason  for  a  third  plant.  _  .^,       u   ^^ 

For— and  I  think  this  is  a  very  potent  argument  with  them,  though  they 
will  be  reluctant  to  believe  it— our  experimental  work  has  progressed  so  favor- 
ably that  we  are  confident  that  we  will  produce  hydrogen  and  ammonia  more 
cheaply  than  anyone  else  will  be  in  a  position  to  do  in  this  country.  Despite 
the  rumors  that  have  been  circulated  about  our  lack  of  success,  our  cost  of 
manufacture  is  satisfactorily  low  today  and  will  drop,  we  believe,  to  the  lowest 

""^Beskles^nd  I  am  sure  quite  distinct  from  this  I.  G.  threat  to  build  a  plant 
Here— the  Consolidated  Mining  &  Smelting  Company  are,  as  you  know,  plan- 
ning to  go  into  synthetic  ammonia  in  British  Columbia.  Mr.  Blaylock,  their 
managing  director,  is  going  abroad  early  in  the  year  to  see  European  ammonia 
processes  and  expects  to  see  the  I.  G.  There  is  some  danger  that  the  Con- 
solidated and  I.  G.  would  get  together  in  a  joint  enterprise  for  making  syn- 
thetic ammonia ;  but  I  feel  sure  that  this  would  be  unwise  on  the  part  of  1.  G., 
inasmuch  as  Consolidated  people,  who  are,  between  us,  a  pretty  ruthless  bunch, 
would  not  be  satisfied  with  a  development  of  the  nitrogen  business  in  Canada, 
but  also  plan  to  export  nitrogen  products  to  the  Far  East,  which  would  be 
decidedlv  against  the  interest  of  the  I.  G.  They  simply  couldn  t  control  Con- 
«olidated's  actions  at  all,  and  will  probably  reject  cooperation  with  them  on 
that  account  You  may  not  feel  in  a  position  to  discuss  this  Consolidated 
project,  but  I  thought  I  would  add  this  point  for  your  information. 

Jasper  E.  Crane. 

JEC-LDN 
End. 


Exibit  No.  1083 

[File  24 :   Bulgarian   Government.     BMl/BS/GEC] 

BiCKFORD  AND   COMPANY,   A.   G. 

London  office,  Noble  Industries,  Ltd.,  Nobel  House 

Vienna,  9th  July  1928, 

IV,  Bruckerstrasse  8. 

Bulgaria  powder  factory. 

Colonel  WnxiAM  N.  Taylor, 

16  Place  Vendome,  Paris. 

Dear  Colonel  Tayt.or  :  Replying  to  your  question  of  July  5th,  I  should  like 
to  say  that  Noble  Industries,  in  view  of  the  small  size  of  its  powder  factory 
desired  by  the  Bulgarians  and  the  consequent  small  amount  of  profit  to  be  made 
out  of  erecting  a  factory,  did  not  consider  it  worth  all  the  work  and  risk  that 
would  be  entailed,  except,  perhaps,  as  a  means  of  obtaining  interim  powder 
orders  during  the  building  period.  These  interim  powder  orders,  which  mi^ht 
run  to  about  80  tons  p.  a.,  cannot  be  guaranteed  by  the  Bulgarian  War 
Office  because  it  has  to  seek  permission  every  time  it  wishes  to  import.  Never- 
less  they  are  likely  to  be  given  to  the  people  contracting  to  erect  the  factory 

There  was  a  further  reason  why  we  did  not  wish  to  hand  in  an  offer  for  this 
powder  factory,  and  that  is  that  for  us  to  erect  a  military  powder  factory  in 
Bulgaria  would  have  seriously  prejudiced  our  chances  of  succeeding  in  our 
negotiations  for  the  industrial  explosives  monopoly  in  Jugoslavia. 


2876  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

My  energies,  therefore,  were  directed  toward  getting  somebody  else  to  tender 
for  tlie  erection  of  the  factories  and  on  the  understanding  that  if  they  were 
succssful  they  would  endeavor  to  stipulate  that  the  interim  orders  be  passed 
to  them  for  execution  by  us.  I  was  successful  in  this  respect,  but  it  meant  our 
undertaking  to  finance  the  Koeln-Rottweil-Bratislava  proposition  in  return  for 
a  third  share  of  the  profits  (if  any)  made  on  the  erection  of  the  factories.  I 
think  you  must  agree  that  this  is  the  best  arrangement  that  could  be  made  in 
the  circumstances. 

The  present  position  has  just  been  reported  to  me  this  morning  by  the  Brati- 
slave  representative  who  has  just  spent  five  weeks  in  sunny  Sofia,  handing  in 
the  tenders  and  holding  on  for  the  result.  The  position  is  as  follows :  The  com- 
mission appointed  to  decide  on  the  tenders  allotted  the  work  to  our  group,  which 
handed  in  a  tender  in  the  name  of  the  Bratislava  Noble  Company.  The  War 
Minister,  however,  was  unable  to  sign  the  contracts,  because  our  tenders  (and 
I  believe  all  others)  exceeded  the  amount  for  which  he  asked  to  expend  on 
these  factories.  There  will  be,  therefore,  a  fresh  adjudication  in  September, 
at  which  I  believe  Bratislava  has  every  prospect  of  obtaining  the  contract,  and 
we  any  subsequent  powder  orders  that  may  be  going. 

With  kind  regards. 
Yours  very  truly, 

(Signed) . 

Exhibit  No.  1084 

[File:    MS-80-A] 

*  BXCEBPT 

11.  The  competitors  for  this  business  are  very  few:  Aktiebolaget  Bofora,  of 
Sweden ;  Vickers  Armstrong,  of  England ;  and  Schneider,  of  France.  As  you 
know,  these  three  firms  work  under  a  common  agreement  and  apparently,  if 
Bofors  does  not  get  the  business,  it  will  go  to  Schneider.  We  believe  that  the 
H.  I.  H.  is  active  on  this  enquiry  and  will  probably  present  a  bid  also. 

12.  The  Bofors  company  presented  the  most  interesting  offer,  giving  for  each 
gun  a  longer  range  than  the  Schneider  guns,  but  the  Turks  are  evidently  be- 
coming a  little  wiser  as  to  Bofors'  ways  of  getting  business,  and  they  decided 
to  send  a  commission  to  the  various  factories  to  verify  that  their  statements 
in  writing  checked  with  the  actual  performance  of  the  guns.  This  commission 
is  at  present  at  Bofors,  and  we  are  informed  that,  after  being  once  more  ver- 
bally informed  of  the  excellent  performance  of  Bofors'  guns,  they  had  some 
firings  made,  which  proved  that  the  statements  were  false  and  that  the  guns  do 
not  function  as  stated.  This  has  caused  a  great  deal  of  ill  feeling  in  the  com- 
mission against  Bofors.  After  completing  its  report,  the  Turkish  commission 
is  proceeding  to  France ;  it  therefore  looks  as  if  the  chances  of  Schneider  get- 
ting the  business  are  increased. 

13.  Under  the  bids,  the  f urnislier  of  the  guns  is  alsa  called  upon  to  supply  a 
certain  number  of  complete  rounds  for  each  gun,  and  under  this  plan,  Schneider 
submitted  specifications  for  French  TNT  having  a  solidification  point  of  79.5°  C. 
and  French  powder  specifications. 

14.  The  Turkish  technical  commission  in  Angora  has  rejected  these  specifi- 
cations and  states  that  it  requires  materials  complying  with  its  own  TNT 
specifications,  which  are  the  Ardeer  specifications  for  TNT  80.5°  C,  and  with 
its  nitrocellulose  powder  specifications,  which  are  in  accordance  with  United 
States  speciflcations. 

15.  They  have  indicated  to  Schneider  that  if  that  firm  cannot  obtain  mate- 
rials complying  with  those  specifications  in  France,  they  will  have  to  import 
them  from  abroad  for  loading  in,  and  transmit  through  France. 

16.  There  are  no  negotiations  on  these  matters  yet,  as  the  whole  proposition 
is  not  yet  mature,  but  this  is  the  general  situation  today. 


("  Exhibit  No.  1085  "  appears  in  text  on  p.  2801.) 


♦The  above  excerpt  is  page  3  (starting  with  par.  11  and  onding  with  pjir.  10)  fnim 
letter  of  Mr.  William  N.  Tavlor,  16,  Place  Vendome,  Paris,  to  Ma.ior  K.  K.  V.  Casey, 
Wilmington,  Delaware,  T-1130,  under  date  of  February  18th,  1928. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


2877 


Exhibit  No.  1085-A 


Sweden. 


Received:  Feb.  24,  1928. 
Foreign  Relations  Committee. 


STOOKHOLMS    SUPEaiFOSFAT  FABBIKS   AKTIEBOLAG 
(STOCKHOLM) 

"Oa*iital:  Kr.  IS.OGOjOOO. 

Manfs. :  Superphosphates,  calcium  carbide,  calcium  cyanamid,  sulphate  of  am- 
monia, chlorate  of  potash  and  soda,  etc. 

Owns :  5CM[5%>  of  capital  of  Nitroglycerin  A/B. 

Directors:  G.  Sandstrom,  C.  Edluud  (Man.  Dir.),  M.  A.  Seymer,  James  Hunch, 
Rich.  Nilsson,  H.  Nordenson,  Ivar  Olsson. 

Net  promts 


Profits 

Divi- 
dends 

1923  and  1924 

Nil. 

1925 

Kr.    53,495 
Kr.  115,806 

Nil. 

1926 .                            ...                            

Nil. 

NITROGLYCEEIN  AKTIEBOLAGET 

(Stockholm) 
Capital :  Kr.  4,000,000. 
Manfs.:  Explosives    (dynamite,   territe.   and   safety   expl.,   blasting  pdr.,    fuel 

cord,  etc.). 
Owns:  30-85%  of  capital  of  A/B  Bofors  Nobelkrut. 
Directors :  O.  Holtermann,  A.  Wahlberg,  G.  Sandstrom,  R.  Nilsson,  Hj.  Stable, 

C.  Edlund,  S.  Nauckhoff  (Man.  Dir.). 

Net  profits 


Profits 

Divi- 
dends 

1S23 

Kr.  312,  799 
Kr.  330,  279 
Kr.  393, 130 
Kr.  420,  733 

7% 

1924 

7% 

1925 

8% 

1926 _. 

9% 

A  KTIKHOLAGET   BOFOES 


(Bofors) 
Capital:  Kr.  18,000,000. 
Manfs. :    Heavy   guns   and    ordnance   material,    iron    and   steel    forgings,    steel 

castings,  rivet,  bolt,  and  wood-screw  machines. 
Owns :  65-40%  of  capital  of  A/B  Bofors  Nobelkrut. 
Directors:  S.  Wingquist,  R.  Sohlman,  E.  Odelberg,  G.  Ekman,  M.  Carlson,  H. 

Th.  Holm  (Man.  Dir.),  O.  Rydbeck. 

Net  profits 


Profits 

Divi- 
dends 

1923 

Nil 

1924 .                                                                         

Kr.  21, 303 

Kr.  379, 958 
Kr.  477,  569 

Nil 

1925... 

Nil 

1926 

3% 

Swedish  banks  stated  to  own  100%  of  capital  of  A/B  Bofors. 


2878  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

AKTIEBOLAGET   BOFOEf?    KOBEI-KKUT 

(Bofors) 

Capital:  Kr.  2,000,000. 

Manfs. :  Smokeless  powder,  nitrocellulose,  trotyl,  tetryl,  hexyl,  dynamite. 
Directors:  H.  Th.  Holm,  R.  Sohlman,  S.  Wingquist,  G.  Ekman,  S.  Nauckhoff, 
C.  Edlund,  C.  Berlin  (Man.  Dir.). 

Net  pi'ofits 


Profits 

Divi- 
dends 

1923                            .                .                                               

Kr.    12,302 
Kr.  191, 028 
Kj.  419,  721 
Kr.  421,  378 

Nil 

1924            

6% 

1925 - 

10% 

1926 -- 

10% 

Above  list  of  Swedish  companies  was  transposed  from  a  photostjit  of  original 
chart. 


Exhibit  No.  1086 

[Copy] 

Mabch  19,  1929. 
Bofors. 
Mr.  Wendell  R.  Swint, 

E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemaurs  &  Co., 

54  New  Broad  Street,  Londres. 

Dear  Sie:  You  know  undoubtedly  that  the  Bofors  Nobelkrut  of  Sweden  is 
our  most  active  competitor,  and  they  have  started  a  price-cutting  campaign 
which  has  caused  considerable  reflection  to  my  department  in  America  and  to 
Mr.  Laing  of  Imperial  Chemical  Industries. 

At  the  present  moment,  we  are  trying  to  meet  their  prices  and  continue 
strong  competition,  but  there  is  a  possibility  that  eventually  it  might  be  advis- 
able to  come  to  some  agreement  with  them. 

Mr.  Laing  informed  me  that  you  are  having  competition  with  them  in  South 
America,  in  the  sales  of  Explosives  Industries.  Limited ;  I  understand  that  it  is 
possible  in  the  mind  of  the  board  of  Explosives  Industries,  Limited,  on  which 
you  and  Mr.  Laing  are,  that  you  may  be  obliged  to  come  to  some  agreement 
with  them  along  those  lines. 

In  this  connection,  I  wish  to  point  out  the  peculiar  organization  of  Bofors, 
and  also  the  fact  that  both  our  departments  are  interested.  It  seems  to  me 
that  it  is  important  that  we  work  together  on  this  matter. 

As  you  know,  Bofors  Nobelkrut  is  a  society  which  makes  military  powders  and 
is  one  of  a  group  of  societies,  including  a  nitroglycerine  aktiebolaget  which 
also  makes  industrial  explosives.  I  do  not  know  whether  it  is  the  Bofors 
Nobelkrut  or  the  Nitroglycerine  Aktiebolaget  which  competes  with  you  in  South 
America ;  both  manufacture  and  export  dynamite,  but  I  want  to  particularly 
point  out  that  this  entire  group  is  controlled  by  Kreuger  and  Toll,  which  is  a 
holding  company  which  also  controls  the  Swedish  match  industry,  and  who 
controls  the  Skandinavska  Credit  Aktiebolaget  and  which  holds  100%  of  the 
stock  of  Bofors  Aktiebolaget,  which  is  a  company  manufacturing  cannons. 

It  seems  to  me  that  the  people  to  make  an  agreement  with  are  not  the  Bofors 
Nobelkrut,  nor  the  Nitroglycerine  Aktiebolaget,  but  Kreuger  and  Toll.  In  any 
case,  if  an  agreement  is  to  be  made,  it  would  be  better  to  do  it  with  Krueger 
and  Toll  than  with  one  of  their  subsidiary  organizations. 

The  principal  object  of  this  letter  is  to  point  out  that  in  any  deal  with  this 
Swedish  group,  the  controlling  element  is  Kreuger  and  Toll,  and  that  their 
position  should  be  given  the  greatest  consideration. 

I  am  not  writing  to  Lning  on  this  matter,  and  request  you  to  call  tl'ese  facts 
to  his  attention. 

Very  truly  yours, 

William  N.  Tayloe. 
WNT  RM 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2879 

Exhibit  No.  10S7 

London,  July  9th,  1929. 

Letter  from  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  European  Office,  Capel  House,  54,  New 

Broad  Street,  London,  E.  C.  2,  England. 
To  Mr.  Fred  G.  Singer,  16  Place  Vendome,  I'aris  ler,  France. 

Deae  Fred:  Your  letter  of  July  8tb  has  been  received,  and  we  have  had  a 
talk  with  Mr.  Laing,  of  Imperial  Chemical  Industries  regarding  the  visit 
of  Mr.  Luthyen,  of  Imperial  Chemical  Industries  Vienna  office. 

It  might  be  well  to  explain  our  present  position  with  regard  to  Bofors 
in  the  South  American  commercial  explosive  market.  This  company  last  year 
sold  approximately  150  tons  in  that  market,  and  it  is  thought  that  it  might 
be  well  to  make  a  quota  arrangement  with  them.  It  was  agreed,  during  the 
last  board  meeting  of  Explosives  Industries,  Limited,  held  on  June  14th,  that 
Mr.  Marquard,  of  D.  A.  G.,  would  open  negotiations  with  Mr.  Berlin  early  in 
August  to  bring  about  the  desired  arrangement. 

It  was  further  agreed  at  this  meeting  that  no  mention  would  be  made  of 
propellants,  but  it  was  the  feeling  of  those  present  that  Bofors'  representative 
might  possibly  want  to  bring  in  propellants.  If  so,  it  is  understood  that  Mr. 
Felix  du  Pont  has  expressed  his  willingness  to  attempt  a  deal  with  Bofors. 

It  was  also  agreed  that  if  the  meeting  between  Mr.  Marquard  and  Mr.  Ber- 
lin precipitated  the  propellants  question,  Mr.  Marquard  would  report  the  mat- 
ter, and  we  would  then  put  the  question  before  you  and  the  other  interested 
parties  for  your  decision. 

In  conversation  with  Mr.  Laing  this  morning  he  intimated  that  Mr.  Luthyen 
had  not  been  called  to  London  to  carry  on  negotiations  with  Bofors,  but  that 
among  other  things  the  matter  of  Bofors'  competition  would  be  talked  over  with 
him,  and  Mr.  Laing  intended  to  secure  his  views,  so  that  in  case  the  matter 
of  propellants  came  up  later  Mr.  Laing  would  then  be  in  possession  of  Mr. 
Luthyen's  ideas  on  the  matter. 

We  believe  the  above  will  explain  the  situation,  but  if  there  are  any  points 
on  which  we  have  not  made  ourselves  clear,  please  advise.  You  also  may  want 
to  think  over  the  matter  of  propellants,  in  case  this  question  is  brought  up 
later. 

Yours  faithfully,  (Signed)     Philip  J.  Kimball. 

RM. 

[  Explosives — Sweden  ] 

Exhibit   No.   1088 

E.  I.  DU  Pont  de  Nemoues  &  Company, 

Explosives  Dsa'AETMENT, 
WiUnington,  Delaware,  May  H,  1930. 
E.  I.  L.— Bofors. 

Mr.  J.  K.  Jennet  :  I  am  enclosing  for  your  information  and  files,  copy  of 
letter  of  May  5th  from  Mr.  Donaldson  to  Mr.  Swiut  and  copy  of  letter  of 
April  26th  from  Bofors  to  Mr.  Marquardt,  together  with  copy  of  the  agreement 
referred  to  therein. 

J.  W.   McCoy. 
[Explosives — Sweden] 

5th  May  1930. 
Bofors  agreement — private. 
W.  R.  SwiNT,  Esq., 

E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  d  Co., 

5Jf  New  Broad  Street,  E.  C.  2. 
Deab  Mb.  Swint  :  We  have  now  heard  from  Mr.  Marquardt  that  the  agree- 
ment with  Bofors  has  been  sigTied  by  Mr.  Herlin.     Copies  of  translation  of 
this  are  enclosed  herewith. 

You  will  see  that  the  question  of  Bofors  interesting  tliemselves  in  local 
manufacture  of  commercial  explosives  abroad  has  not  been  dealt  with  in  the 
agreement,  but  Mr.  Herlin  has  written  a  letter  undertaking  to  communicate 
with  us  or  with  Mr.  Marquardt  in  the  event  of  his  receiving  any  enquiries. 
Copy  of  this  letter  is  also  enclosed  herewith. 
Yours  very  truly, 

(S)     E.   L   L.    (Ltd.). 
(Encs.) 


2880  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

[Explosives — Sweden] 

Abschbift  Aktebolaget  Bofobs  Nobexkeut, 

Bofors,  den  264.1930. 
Erectiou  of  factory. 
Hekrn  Dibektor  Emil  Marquaedt, 
Dynamit-Actie^i-Oesellschaft, 

Alstertor  23,  Hamburg,  1: 
With  regard  to  the  contract  which  we  enclose  herewitli  signed  by  us  and 
which  refers  to  our  export  of  dynamite,  we  confirm  herewith  that  we  shall 
communicate  with  you  if  we  get  enquiries  for  the  construction  of  factories  for 
commercial  explosives. 
Yours  faithfully, 

(Sgd.)     Aktiebolaget  Bofobs'  Nobelkbut, 

Herlin. 
[Explosives — Swedeu] 

Agbeement 

Between  the  Dynamit  Actien  Gesellschaft  vormals  Alfred  Nobel  &  Co..  Ham- 
burg in  Hamburg,  as  representative  of  the  German  and  foreign  companies 
allied  with  them  (in  the  following  referred  to  as  Hamburg)  and  Aktiebolaget 
Bofors  Nobelkrut  of  Bofors  (in  the  following  referred  to  as  Bofors)  the 
following  agreement  lias  been  made  today 

Clause  1. — Bofors  bind  themselves  to  limit  their  exports  of  industrial  explo- 
sives to  330  (three  hundred  and  thirty)  tons  of  2,000  lbs.  each  per  annum. 
This  quantity  shall  as  far  as  possible  be  disposed  of  in  South  America. 

Clause  2. — Hamburg  bind  themselves  to  avoid  everything  which  could  hinder 
in  any  way  Bofors  in  the  disposal  of  the  before-mentioned  quantity.  For  this 
purpose  the  prices  ruling  for  the  various  countries  which  come  into  consid- 
eration will  be  made  known  to  Bofors  in  order  tliat  Bofors  can  arrange  their 
prices  in  such  a  way  as  to  enable  them  to  dispose  of  the  before-mentioned 
quantity.  Hamburg  is  also  ready  to  quote  occasionally  at  higher  prices  than 
the  ruling  list  prices  in  order  that  the  Bofors  prices  shall  not  be  reduced 
unnecessarily,  if  and  as  far  as  this  is  possible  in  the  interest  of  the  consumers. 

Clause  S. — In  cases  where  Bofoi-s  is  called  upon  to  supply  detonators  (plain 
and  electric)  and  fuse,  they  biud  themselves  to  adhere  to  the  prices  to  be  made 
known  to  them  by  Hamburg  in  each  case. 

Clause  Jf. — In  order  that  Hamburg  may  be  able  to  see  which  quantities  are 
to  be  delivered  by  Bofors  under  this  contract,  Bofors  agrees  to  transmit  at 
the  end  of  each  quarter,  commencing  with  the  1st  quarter  of  1930,  to  Hamburg 
a  statement  of  the  quantities  exported  by  the  Bofors  Co. 

Clause  5. — This  agreement  commences  on  the  1st  January  1930  and  ter- 
minates on  the  31st  December  1934. 

Bofors,  the  Hamburg,  the 


(••Exhibit  No.  1089"  appears  hi  text  on  p.  2803.) 


Exhibit  No.  1090 

[PO — 1443] 
Bofors.  May  25th,  1934, 

L.  W.  B.  Smith,  Esq., 

Imperial  Chemical  Industries, 

Millhank,  London,  SW.  I. 
Dear  Sir.  I  had  the  visit  this  morning  from  IVIr.   Sohlman  of  Bofors.     We 
talked  about  the  Greek  adjudication  and  both   expressed   our  dissatisfaction 
with  the  manner  in  which  the  Greeks  have  conducted  the  affair. 

Shortly  the  Greeks  will  ask  for  more  samples  and  expect  to  repeat  the  same 
kind  of  competition  for  another  gun. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2881 

Mr.  Sohlman  said  that  he  was  of  a  uiind  uot  to  send  samples  next  time,  but 
to  offer  to  do  nothing  more  than  to  put  in  a  written  offer,  to  be  taken  or  left. 
I  told  him  that  I  thouglit  it  was  a  good  thing  to  do  and  a  way  to  teach  the 
Greeks. 

We  then  discussed  tlie  question  of  the  possibility  of  an  agreement  among  the 
principal  powder  manufacturers,  whereby  we  would  not  present  bids  if  the 
requirements  of  the  customers  were  unreasonable.  We  both  thouglit  that  such 
a  thing  might  be  possible. 

We  also  discussed  the  possibility  of  making  an  agreement  among  the  manu- 
facturers on  standard  laboratory  methods. 

We  did  not  talk  about  a  price  agreement,  nor  of  any  territory  agreement  of 
any  kind. 

We  discussed  at  length  the  general  question  of  the  possibility  of  an  agreement 
of  some  kind  among  military  manufacturers,  and  we  both  thought  that  while 
such  an  agreement  might  be  possible  as  far  as  the  manufacturers  themselves 
were  concerned,  that  due  to  the  political  situation  in  Europe  today,  and  due 
to  the  general  attitude  toward  arms  manufacturers,  any  attempt  to  make  a 
formal  agreement  among  manufacturers  would  cause  the  loudest  and  most 
violent  criticism  and  put  us  in  a  very  disagreeable  position.  We  would  be 
accused  of  joining  together  to  foment  wars,  increase  armaments,  etc.  And  we 
agreed  that  an  agreement  among  military  manufacturers  and  private  manufac- 
turers was  a  very  different  matter,  and  that  any  agreement  made  among  mili- 
tary manufacturers  would  be  a  grave  political  error. 

Mr.  Sohlman  also  stated  that  their  powder  factory  was  getting  pretty  filled 
up  with  ordei-s  and  very  soon  they  would  be  no  longer  able  to  offer  reasonable 
deliveries ;  also  that  they  are  not  feeling  so  liberal  about  matters  as  they  have 
in  the  past. 

Very  truly  yours, 

William  N.  Taylor. 
WNT/MS. 

Exhibit  No.  1091 
[Copy.     Royal    Dutch    Shell] 

Lazote,  Inc., 
1001  Market  Street,  Wilmington,  Del., 
Cooperation  with  Royal  Dutch  Shell.  September  16,  1929. 

Mr.  Jasper  E.  Crane, 

du  Pont  Ammonia  Corporation,  du  Pont  Building, 

Wilmington,  Delaicare. 
Dear  Mr.  Crane:  In  considering  the  possibility  of  cooperative  effort  by  du 
Pont  and  I.  C.  I.  with  R.  D.  S.  it  should  be  recognized  that  the  I.  C.  I.  viewpoint 
and  the  du  Pont  Ammonia  Corporation  viewpoint  are  fundamentally  different. 
The  I.  C.  I.  desire  for  cooperation  has  three  objectives : 

(A)  R.  D.  S.  presents  a  source  of  methane  which  may  be  used  for  a  great 
variety  of  organic  syntheses — -most  of  which  are  as  yet  undeveloped. 

(B)  It  is  desirable  to  curb  the  R.  D.  S.  activities  in  nitrogen  fixation. 

(C)  The  R.  D.  S.  are  the  leading  factor  in  the  gasoline  business  in  England — 
I.  C.  I.  propose  manufacturing  gasoline  in  EJngland  and  desire  an  alliance  with 
R.  D.  S.  on  this  accounr,  first,  because  it  is  felt  that  R.  D.  S.  might  shield  I.  C.  I.'s 
position  in  the  gasoline  field  due  to  R.  D.  S.'s  influence  in  the  oil  world,  and, 
second,  R.  D.  S.  could  distribute  I.  C.  I.  gasoline  through  the  large  established 
distributing  organization  which  R.  D.  S.  maintahis  in  England  and  which  I.  C.  I. 
does  not  desire  to  duplicate. 

Objective  "A",  namely,  the  methane  as  a  raw  material  for  organic  syntheses, 
is,  in  my  estimation,  of  minor  importance  and  is  probably  brought  to  the  fore  to 
no  small  extent  in  order  to  mask  objective  "  C  "  when  discussing  the  entire 
subject  with  us. 

That  objective  "  B  ",  namely,  the  curbing  of  R.  D.  S.  activities  in  nitrogen 
fixation,  is  highly  important  in  the  eyes  of  I.  C.  I.  there  is  absolutely  no  question. 
However,  I  gather  that  I.  C.  I.  do  not  know  just  how  to  go  about  this  and  their 
suggested  procedure  seems  to  be  rather  brutal,  namely,  to  form  a  holding  com- 
pany in  which  I.  C.  I.  would  be  the  cnntroUiiig  factor — this  holding  company 


2882  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

would  veto  all  suggestions  to  build  nitrogen-fixation  plants.  This  proposed 
method  of  procedure  would  be  efficacious  if  practicable,  but  it  seems  unlikely 
that  it  will  be  possible  to  draw  an  agreement  which  would  make  the  suggested 
procedure  practicable. 

In  objective  "  C  "  it  is  quite  clear  that  I.  C.  I.  is  an  aggressor  in  the  R.  D.  S. 
field  and  obviously  R.  D.  S.  would  feel  toward  I.  C.  I.'s  coal  hydrogenation 
aspirations  in  precisely  the  same  manner  as  I.  C.  I.  feels  about  R.  D.  S.  nitro- 
gen fixation  aspirations.  It  will  be  noted,  however,  that  the  I.  C.  I.  does  not 
propose  to  keep  out  of  coal  hydrogenation  and  as  an  offset  ask  R.  D.  S.  to 
keep  out  of  nitrogen  fixation — quite  the  contrary,  I.  C.  I.  on  the  one  hand 
desires  to  hydrogenate  coal  and  on  the  other  hand  desires  to  keep  R.  D.  S. 
from  fixing  nitrogen.  Just  how  I.  C.  I.  expect  to  accomplish  this  one-sided 
cooperation  is  neither  clear  to  me  nor  apparently  "clear  to  the  I.  C.  I.,  unless 
the  R.  D.  S.  were  inveigled  into  an  agreement  of  a  type  which  it  seems  quite 
apparent  the  R.  D.  S.  is  far  too  smart  to  sign. 

Insofar  as  the  du  Pont  Ammonia  Corporation  is  concerned  there  are  two 
possible  objectives  in  cooperation  with  R.  D.  S. : 

A.  To  secure  a  source  of  methans. 

B.  To  curb  the  activities  of  R.  D.  S.  in  nitrogen  fixation. 

Although  there  may  be  some  foundation  for  the  I.  C.  I.'s  expectation  that 
cooperation  with  the  R.  D.  S.  will  secure  a  supply  of  methane  otherwise  not 
available,  this  possibility  cannot  hold  from  our  viewpoint.  Of  methane,  prac- 
tically limitless  supplies  are  available  from  dozens  of  sources  in  the  United 
States  and  there  seems  little  question  that  we  can  obtain  all  we  desire  or 
require  at  a  price  of  20  to  4t  per  1,000  cubic  feet  without  entangling  alliances 
of  any  type.  From  the  viewpoint  of  securing  a  supply  of  methane  via  an 
alliance  with  the  R.  D.  S.,  it  would  be  quite  as  reasonable  to  propose  a  part- 
nership with  a  coal  company  in  ordei-  to  secure  for  ourselves  an  adequate 
supply  of  coal. 

Our  objective  "  B  "  is,  as  I  see  it,  our  sole  objective.  It  is  not  clear  to  me 
how  an  alliance  with  the  R.  D.  S.  will  curb  their  activities  in  nitrogen  fixation. 
R.  D.  S.  desire  our  cooperation  in  order  to  enable  them  to  approach  nitrogen 
fixation  and  the  chemical  field  generally  via  the  high -pressure  synthesis  route 
with  a  minimum  of  effort. 

As  I  see  it,  the  only  manner  in  which  the  cooperation  between  R.  D.  S.  and 
du  Pont  Ammonia  Corporation  could  curb  R.  D.  S.  would  lie  in  the  possibility 
that  we  undertook  to  refrain  from  doing  something  if  the  R.  D.  S.  refrain  from 
nitrogen  fixation.  Casting  about  for  possibilities  of  things  we  might  offer  to 
refrain  from  doing,  which  might  be  interesting  to  the  R.  D.  S.,  I  can  think 
of  but  two — first,  tlie  hydrogenation  of  petroleum  and  second,  the  hydrogenation 
of  coal. 

Insofar  as  either  of  these  hydrogenation  possibilities  are  concerned  it  must 
be  recognized  that  we  have  no  definite  plans  to  proceed  with  either  in  the  im- 
mediately foreseeable  future.  Insofar  as  hydrogenation  of  petroleum  is  con- 
cerned, the  Standard  Oil  Company  of  New  Jersey  is  now  building  three  plants 
for  this  purpose  and  it  seems  quite  unlikely  that  our  offering  to  refrain  from 
entering  this  field  v.ill  carry  much  weight  with  R.  D.  S.  Similarly  an  offer 
on  our  part  to  refrain  from  coal  hydrogenation  would  carry  little  weight  with 
the  R.  D.  S.  as  R.  D.  S.  know  quite  as  well  as  we  do  that  it  is  unlikely  that 
coal  hydrogenation  will  be  an  economically  feasible  method  of  gasoline  pro- 
duction in  the  United  States  until  the  present  sources  of  crude  oil  become 
exhausted — in  other  words  until  it  is  necessary  to  go  to  oil  shale  for  raw 
materials  for  gasoline  and  oil  production.  This  development  is  certainly  ten 
or  fifteen  years  in  the  future,  and  an  offer  on  our  part  to  forego  coal  hydro- 
genation, were  we  prepared  to  make  such  rash  promises,  would  at  best  it 
seems  carry  but  little  weight  with  the  R.  D.  S. 

Turning  to  the  R.D.S.  viewpoint  for  a  moment,  it  seems  probable  that  tl.e 
R.D.S.  interest  in  nitrogen  fixation  does  not  lie  primarily  in  R.D.S.'s  desire 
to  become  a  factor  in  tlie  nitrogen  business  but  rather  to  R.D.S.'s  desire  to 
obtain  aii  education  in  high-pressure  synthesis.  Nitrogen  fixation  presents  the 
readiest  method  of  applying  high-pressure  synthesis  on  a  commercial  scale  with 
a  developed  process  on  the  one  hand  and  with  a  market  to  absorb  the  product 
of  the  process  on  the  other  hand. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2883 

R.D.S.  have  the  example  ol"  the  Standard  Oil  Compauy  of  N.J.  before  tliem, 
i.e.,  the  allowance  of  the  Standard  Oil  Company  of  N.J.  with  the  I.G.  R.D.S. 
realize  that  the  supply  of  crude  oil,  be  it  sufficient  for  five  years  or  for  fifty 
years,  is  not  unlimited,  and  that  one  day,  however  far  in  the  future,  the  products 
now  derived  from  crude  oil  must  be  made  by  another  method.  In  view  of  the 
R.D.S.  investment  in  the  oil  business,  it  seems  logical  and  foresighted  that 
R.D.S.  should  prepare  themselves  for  the  day  when  petroleum  products  are 
made  by  other  methods  than  the  refining  of  crude  oil. 

Putting  the  matter  in  a  nutshell,  R.D.S. — at  the  moment — see  in  tlieir  Cali- 
fornia ammonia  plant  the  opportunity  for  a  chemical  education  in  the  high-pres- 
sure synthesis  field  rather  than  a  stepping  stone  to  becoming  factors  in  nitrogen 
fixation.  If  this  were  not  so,  it  would  be  very  much  more  logical  for  R.D.S.  to 
build  a  nitrogen-fixation  plant  at  one  of  the  R.D.S.  oil  fields  adjacent  to  the 
Gulf  of  Mexico.  The  plant  is  being  built  instead  in  California,  because  at  Cali- 
fornia are  concentrated  the  technical  forces  of  the  R.D.S.  All  of  the  foregoing 
should  not  be  construed  to  mean  tliat  R.D.S.  would  not  build  other  nitrogen- 
fixation  plants  once  the  California  plant  is  successful,  for  nntnrally  their  view- 
point would  change  with  their  progress  in  the  art. 

It  seems  probable  that  the  California  nitrogen-fixation  plant  proposed  by  the 
R.D.S.  would  be  more  troublesome  to  the  I.C.I,  in  the  nitrogen  markets  in  the 
Far  East  than  it  would  be  to  ns,  as  it  will  be  impossible  to  ship  nitrogen  products 
from  California  to  the  United  States  east  of  the  Rocky  Mountains.  The  west 
'.-oast  will  not  support  the  California  Tl.D.S.  nitrogen  plant  and  tlie  Far  East 
is  a  logical  market  for  the  bulk  of  the  nitrogen  produced  in  California. 

If  the  California  plant  of  R.D.S.  were  the  beginning  and  end  of  oil  companies' 
activities  in  nitrogen  fixation,  the  problem  presented  would  be  simple.  The 
serious  aspect  of  the  matter  is  the  fact  that  there  are  many  sources  of  methane 
supply  owned  by  many  oil  companies,  and  witli  R.D.S.  blazing  the  trail  it  seems 
not  unlikely  that  at  least  some  other  of  the  oil  companies  would  decide  that  they 
must  get  into  the  chemical  field  and  find  it  convenient — even  as  the  R.D.S. — 
to  start  their  education  by  building  a  nitrogen-fixation  plant.  An  association  or 
alliance  with  the  R.D.S.,  unless  that  alliance  effectively  stopped  the  R.D.S. 
nitrogen-fixation  program,  might  well  have  the  result  of  encouraging  other  oil 
companies  to  get  in  the  chemical  business  and  specifically  into  nitrogen  fixation 
rather  than  to  curb  them  from  doing  so. 

Finally,  consideration  should  be  given  to  the  point  that  R.  D.  S.  are  not 
necessarily  the  best  partners  to  have  in  the  United  States,  if  we  must  have 
an  0)1  company  as  a  partner ;  for  even  though  an  alliance  with  R.  D.  S.  might 
today  have  advantages  from  our  viewpoint,  those  advantages  may  not  have 
equal  force  ten  or  fifteen  years  from  now  when  perhaps  du  Pont  Ammonia 
^Corporation  will  be  interested  in  coal  hydrogenation. 

In  conclusion  I  wish  to  say  that  it  is  my  personal  opinion  tliat  the  lesser 
of  the  many  evils  pi-esented  by  the  R.  D.  S.  proposal  lies  in  our  refusing  to 
partake  in  the  cooperation  which  has  been  suggested;  giving  as  a  reason  for 
this  refusal  the  very  evident  uneconomic  nature  of  the  R.  D.  S.  venture  in 
California  and  coupling  with  our  refusal  an  expression  to  the  effect  that  the 
du  Pont  Company  would  consider  the  building  of  a  nitrogen  fixation  plant  in 
California  as  an  unfriendly  act,  whereas  we  desired  mutual  good  will  to  make 
jiossible  cooperation  in  some  economically  sound  enterprise  in  the  future. 

Finally,  reference  should  be  made  to  fhe  possibility  that  the  I.  C.  I.  may  be 
quite  unable  to  cooperate  with  R.  D.  S.  unless  the  I.  C.  I.  are  assured  that 
R.  D.  S.  will  not  fix  nitrogen ;  this  possibility  exists  if  the  reported  I.  C.  I.- 
I.  G.  agreement  binds  the  parties  thereto  not  to  build  or  be  interested  in  build- 
ing further  nitrogen  fixation  plants  other  than  expansions  of  existing  plants 
in  England  and  in  Germany  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  said  agree- 
ment. No  doubt  the  actual  provisions  of  the  I.  C.  I. -I.  G.  agreement  will  be 
learned  from  the  I.  C.  I.  before  the  discussion  of  the  R.  D.  S.  matter  or  in  the 
discu.ssion  of  the  R.  D.  S.  matter  with  I.  C.  I. 

("Sd.)      Waltek  Dannenbaum. 
WD  :FM. 


2884  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Exhibit  No.  1092 

[Copy.     Royal   Dutch] 

*Orig.  letter  in  Lazote  files. 

B.  I.  Du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Ca, 
Wilmington,  Del.\ware 

EuBOPEAN  Office,  Capel  House, 
54  New  Broad  Street,  London,  E.  G.  2,*  July  25, 1929. 
To :  Mr.  Jasper  E.  Crane  and  Mr.  F.  A.  Wardenburg. 
From :  W.  Dannenbaum,  London. 

Finding  that  it  would  be  impossible  for  us  to  arrive  in  London  in  time  ti> 
keep  the  3  o'clock  appointment  with  Sir  Harry  McGowan,  we  cabled  Mr.  Swint 
from  Cherbourg.  Mr.  Swint  met  us  at  the  train,  and  we  discovered  that  the 
engagement  had  been  shifted  to  4  o'clock.  Mr.  Swint  and  I  proceeded  to  the 
I.  C.  I.  Building  directly  from  the  ti'ain  and  first  saw  Sir  Harry  alone. 

After  a  little  general  conversation.  Sir  Harry  asked  about  the  object  of  our 
visit  insofar  as  Billingham  is  concerned,  and  regarding  the  length  of  time  we 
might  want  to  stay  there.  We  informed  him  that  it  seemed  to  us  a  minimum 
of  2  weeks  would  be  desirable,  or  perhaps  3  weeks  would  he  necessary  if  a 
visit  of  this  duration  would  be  satisfactory  to  him.  He  seemed  to  think  this 
entirely  in  order. 

He  then  spoke  about  the  Royal  Dutch  Shell  matter,  and  stated  that  R.  D.  S. 
were  apparently  trying  to  force  the  negotiations  to  a  conclusion,  and  that 
their  head  commercial  man,  a  Mr.  Kessler,  expected  to  talk  with  them  in  a 
rather  final  manner  the  next  day,  namely,  Tuesday.  However,  after  discussing 
the  matter  among  themselves,  Sir  Harry  had  come  to  the  conclusion  that  the 
R.  D.  S.  people  should  be  put  off  and  that  Lord  Melchett  was  writing  a  letter 
to  the  R.  D.  S.  chairman  on  Monday  afternoon  to  the  general  effect  that,  if 
an  immediate  decision  with  regard  to  the  cooperation  were  demanded  by 
R.  D.  S.,  I.  C.  I.  must  be  unwilling  to  cooperate,  for  it  would  be  necessary  to 
consult  with  du  Pont  before  an  arrangement  could  be  made  with  R.  D.  S.  and 
a  discussion  with  du  Pont  could  not  very  well  take  place  before  September, 
when  Sir  Harry  would  visit  the  U.  S. 

Sir  Harry  also  set  forth  in  somewhat  indefinite  terms  the  fact  that  he  did 
not  want  the  R.  D.  S.  matter  to  interfere  in  any  way  with  the  du  Pont-I.  C.  I. 
cooperation. 

Sir  Harry  then  turned  us  over  to  Mr.  Mitchell  and  Colonel  Pollitt.  These 
gentlemen  asked  us  about  the  duration  of  our  stay  at  Billingham,  and  we 
went  over  about  the  same  ground  as  that  covered  with  Sir  Harry.  They  both 
seemed  most  cordial  in  their  invitation  to  stay  as  long  as  we  found  it  neces- 
sary or  desirable.  In  this  connection,  I  wish  to  say  that  I  did  not  have  with 
me  the  letter  addressed  to  Col.  Pollitt — it  was  delivered  to  him  yesterday — 
and  wo,  i.  e.,  Messrs.  Swint,  Williams,  Varnes.  and  I,  are  to  see  Col.  Pollitt 
this  afternoon. 

Mr.  Mitchell  and  Col.  Pollitt  then  enlarged  upon  the  R.  D.  S.  matter  and  told 
us  that  Mr.  Pyzel,  the  man  who  has  charge  of  the  R.  D.  S.  operations  in  Cali- 
fornia and  who  is  carrying  on  the  negotiations  with  I.  C.  I.,  would  be  on  hand 
on  Tuesday  to  discuss  the  technical  features  of  the  ammonia  plant,  among  other 
things.  Messrs.  Mitchell  and  Pollitt  were  also  under  the  impression  that  Mr. 
Kessler  would  be  on  hand  in  the  afternoon  to  carry  on  the  discussion  of  the 
world-wide  I.  C.  I.-R.  D.  S.  cooperation.  They  were  apparently  not  aware  of  the 
decision  that  had  been  reached  by  Sir  Haity  and  Lord  Melchett  to  stall  on  this 
matter.  We  told  them  of  our  understanding  in  this  connection,  and  they  im- 
mediately made  inquiries  and  discovered  that  we  were  correct,  and  I  gathered 
that  they  thought  this  a  rather  good  solution  for  the  immediate  difficulties. 

Both  of  these  gentlemen  expressed  themselves  quite  strongly  to  the  effect  that 
they  did  not  desire  to  have  the  proposed  cooperation  with  R.  D.  S.  interfere  with 
the  Du  Pont-I.  C.  I.  arrangement  in  any  manner  whatsoever.  At  the  same  time, 
it  is  quite  apparent  that  they  desire  the  hook-up  with  R.  D.  S.  Personally,  I  am 
inclined  to  the  opinion  that  they  desire  tliis  in  large  part  because  they  wish  to 
be  able  to  control  the  R.  D.  S.  activities.    On  the  other  hand,  they  seem  to  think 


*  Pencil  markings. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2885 

that,  if  the  I.  G.  found  cooperation  with  the  Standard  of  N.  J.  desirable,  it  is 
similarly  desirable  for  the  I.  C.  I.  to  have  an  alliance  with  another  large  oil- 
producing  company.  Please  understand  that  the  latter  statements  are  con- 
jectures on  my  part  ratlier  than  definite  statements  made  by  either  of  these 
gentlemen.  ,,  ^  » 

We  found  that  Messrs.  Mitchell  and  Pollitt  were  whole-heartedly  in  favor  of 
blocking  the  R.  D.  S.  ammonia  plant  in  California.  This  feeling  on  their  part 
is  by  no  means  solely  due  to  a  desire  to  further  our  interests,  but  is  due  to  the 
fact  that  they  plainly  see  that  the  logical  market  for  ammonia  produced  in 
California,  other  than  the  small  consumption  of  ammonium  sulphate  in  Cali- 
fornia and  Hawaii,  would  be  in  the  Far  East,  and  to  put  it  mildly,  the  I.  C.  I. 
are  very  jealous  of  the  Far  Eastern  market.  There  is  absolutely  no  question  that 
the  I.  C.  I.  wish  to  block  the  ammonia  plant  in  California,  but  it  is  not  entirely 
clear  to  them  how  they  should  go  about  doing  it. 

About  this  time,  Major  Samson  joined  us— Major  Samson  is  the  London  office 
man  who  keeps  in  close  contact  with  Billingham  on  ammonia  matters  and  fer- 
tilizer matters  and  apparently  is  Col.  Pollitt's  chief  assistant  (in  the  London 
office) — in  this  discussion.  Major  Samson  is  the  one  who  will  take  us  to 
Billingham. 

After  Major  Samson's  appearance,  we  discussed  briefly  other  possibilities  for 
using  the  R.  D.  S.  gas  in  California,  including  hydrogenation  of  crude  oil,  develop- 
ment of  electrical  power,  etc.  It  was  finally  decided  that  we  would  meet  Major 
Samson  on  Tuesday  morning  and  discuss  ways  and  means  for  presenting  the 
best  argument  to  Mr.  Pyzel,  and  then  come  together  with  Mr.  Pyzel  on  Tuesday 
afternoon. 

I  should  explain  that  the  gases  which  R.  D.  S.  propose  utilizing  for  ammonia 
manufacture  in  California  are  not,  as  we  th(.ught  when  we  left  the  U.  S.,  re- 
finery gases,  but  are  natural  gases  (chiefly  methane),  which  come  forth  from 
the  oil  wells  together  with  the  oil.  There  is  a  tremendous  amount  of  these 
gases  being  wasted  to  the  air  in  California.  The  R.  D.  S.  fields  are  sending 
about  75,000,000  cu.  ft.  per  day  into  the  air,  or  enough  to  make  50O  tons  of 
ammonia  per  day  via  the  rather  crude  method  of  gas  utilization  the  R.  D.  S. 
propose  employing.  R.  D.  S.  propose  cracking  the  gas,  or  "  reforming  "  it,  at  a 
comparatively  low  temperature — this  "  reforming  "  process  produces  a  gas  con- 
taining about  66%  hydrogen.  The  hydrogen  is  to  be  separated  via  the  Linde 
apparatus  and  ammonia  produced  by  the  Mt.  Cenis  process. 

Messrs.  Swint,  Williams,  Varnes,  and  I  met  Major  Samson  at  10  o'clock  on 
Tuesday  and  proceeded  to  discuss  the  manner  in  which  we  should  pursue  our 
conversations  with  Mr.  Pyzel.  We  discussed  the  possible  markets  and  all  of 
the  factors  we  could  think  of,  and  finally  arrived  at  the  conclusion  that  we 
should  try  to  let  Mr.  Pyzel  tell  us  his  story  and  then  ask  time  to  digest  the 
information  thus  receive<l,  and  finally  have  another  talk  to  present  our  views. 

After  lunch  we  met  Mr.  Pyzel  anil  triel  to  get  him  tt)  talk.  This  was  some- 
what of  an  undertaking,  and  I  believe  that  at  the  beginning  he  was  rather 
suspicious — of  just  what  I  do  not  know.  However,  as  the  afternoon  wore  on 
he  loosened  up  a  bit,  and  finally  we  got  him  down  to  brass  tacks. 

We  discovered  that  he  believes  he  can  make  ammonia  for  2.3  cents  per  lb. 
at  a  plant  which  it  is  proposed  to  erect  at  Long  Beach,  Cal.  We  also  dis- 
covered that  he  thinks  the  market  for  calcium  nitrate  is  increasing  rapidly  in 
California  and  that  it  can  be  greatly  increased  by  means  of  propaganda.  We 
found  that  the  R.  D.  S.  had  made  a  very  thorough  study  of  the  technical  end 
of  the  proposed  process  and  have  apparently  gathered  bids  on  all  the  necessary 
equipment  and  would  be  ready  to  start  building  a  plant  immediately.  The 
plant  they  are  building  at  Ymuiden  will  be  complete  and  in  operation  before 
the  end  of  the  year. 

At  the  R.  D.  S.  laboratories  in  Amsterdam,  or  near  Amsterdam,  the  R.  D.  S. 
are  working  on  quite  a  number  of  schemes  to  utilize  the  refinery  byproduct 
gases,  including  the  process  for  making  butyl  alcohol,  propyl  alcohol,  ethyl 
alcohol,  and  acetone.  Apparently  they  have  done  little,  if  any,  work  on  hy- 
drogenation of  crude  oil. 

Finally,  on  Tuesday  aftenioon,  we  were  given  a  rather  sketchy  memorandum 
drawn  by  the  I.  C.  I.  regarding  the  California  ammonia  plant  and  another  con- 
fidential cost  report,  which  had  been  compiled  by  the  I.  C.  I.  on  the  basis  of 
information  given  by  the  R.  D.  S.  with  regard  to  costs  of  ammonia  at  Ymuiden 
and  at  the  proposed  California  plant. 

Tuesday  evening  we  spent  in  going  over  these  costs  reports  and  translating 
them  into  American  figures.     We  reached  the  conclusion   that  the  2.3  cents 


2886  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

cost  might  be  a  trifle  low.  In  other  words,  that  the  ammonia  might  cost  2^/2 
cents  per  lb.  Adding  the  cost  of  making  ammonium  sulphate  from  gypsum  and 
adding  various  other  items,  such  as  royalty,  taxes  &  insurance,  depreciation, 
we  arrived  at  a  mill  cost  of  sulphate  of  a  little  under  $.30.00  a  ton ;  and  adding 
sales  expense  and  a  $4.00  freight,  we  arrived  at  a  delivered  cost  at  Califoruian 
points  of  about  $34.40  per  ton.  Needless  to  say,  the  $4.00  freight  figure  was 
just  a  guess.  We  added  working  capital  to  the  capital  cost  of  the  plants,  and 
found  that  a  return  of  less  than  1%  would  be  made  if  the  selling  price  were 
$35.00,  and  a  return  of  12.8%  if  the  selling  price  were  $44.00  per  short  ton  of 
sulphate  delivered. 

Yesterday,  Wednesday,  morning  we  discussed  these  figures  with  Major  Sam- 
son, and  later,  when  Mr.  Pyzel  joined  us,  showed  them  to  him.  We  went  over 
the  figures  item  by  item  and  found  that  R.  D.  S.  have  no  intention  of  taking  out 
Chemical  Foundation  license.  Not  that  they  object  to  paying  a  royalty,  but 
because  they  cannot  obtain  the  Chemical  Foundation  license  due  to  the  fact 
that  they  are  not  75%  American  owned.  They  are  quite  firm  in  their  convic- 
tion that  if  sued  by  the  Chemical  Foundation,  the  R.  D.  S.  would  be  the  victors 
in  the  lawsuit. 

The  discussion  finally  boiled  down  lo  a  discusision  of  the  future  prices  of 
nitrogen.  We  set  foi-th  that  in  all  our  calculations  w-e  assumed  a  price  not 
exceeding  $35.00  per  ton  of  sulphate  and  evaluating  various  fertilizer  processes, 
and  that  we  felt  any  process  should  be  able  to  live  with  a  sulphate  of  ammonia 
price  of  $30.00  per  ton  delivered  in  the  eastoru  part  of  the  U.  S.  It  is  a  curious 
coincidence  that  I.  C.  I.  figure  that  sulphate  may  go  as  low  as  about  $28.00  a 
ton  f.  a.  s.  Bill'ngham. 

All  of  this  was  in  the  nature  of  a  jolt  to  Mr.  Pyzel.  He  did  not  say  that 
these  prices  would  not  be  current  over  a  period  of  years,  but  he  seemed  of 
the  opinion  that  it  miglit  take  quite  a  few  years  to  reach  such  low  prices. 

The  discussion.^  led  to  no  very  definite  conclusion  except  that  Major  Samson 
undertook  to  draw  up  a  report  embodying  the  "  conclusions  "  arrived  at  in  the 
three-cornered  conference,  and  IMr.  Pyzel  and  we  are  to  examine  this  report 
before  it  becomes  an  "  official  document."  The  I.  C.  I.  are  strong  on  writing 
reports. 

Just  where  this  matter  stands  it  is  difficult  to  say.  The  R.  D.  S.  apparently 
wish  to  get  into  the  chemical  industry.  Originally,  the  ammonia  plant  was 
intended  as  a  club  againsit  the  I.  G.  The  I.  G.  apparently  made  the  mistake 
of  telling  the  oil  industry  generally  and  the  R.  D.  S.  specifically  that  in  due 
time  the  I.  G.  would  make  all  of  the  oil  the  world  required  by  synthetic  methods. 
Whether  the  I.  G.  said  this  or  not,  that  was  the  R.  D.  S.  impression  of  the 
I.  G.'s  intentions.  It  seems  evident  that  the  R.  D.  S.  no  longer  think  an  am- 
monia plant  in  California  would  be  a  good  club  insofar  as  the  I.  G.  are  con- 
cerned, but  perhaps  they  think  it  a  good  club  to  obtain  an  association  primarily 
with  I.  C.  I.  and  perhaps*  secondarily  with  Du  Pont.  The  R.  D.  S.  is  deter- 
mined to  get  in  the  chemical  business. 

The  I.  C.  I.,  on  the  other  hand,  seem  quite  as  anxious  for  the  association  as 
the  R.  D.  S.  From  an  international  viewpoint,  the  R.  D.  S.  association  for  the 
I.  C.  I.  has  far  more  interest  than  the  R.  D.  S.  association,  from  our  viewpoint. 
The  R.  D.  S.  is  the  outstanding  international  oil  company,  whereas  it  is  hardly 
the  outstanding  oil  company  in  the  U.  S.  It  seems  to  me  that,  from  our  view- 
point, R.  D.  S.  is  merely  one  s'mrce  of  supply  of  methane — one  source  among 
literally  thousands  of  sources.  However,  the  discussions  of  the  broad  policy  in 
this  matter  seemed  to  be  postponed  until  Sir  Harry  goes  to  New  York,  and  we 
have  made  it  quite  evident  that  we  are  not  here  to  discuss  broad  policies  but  are 
merely  here,  insofar  as  the  R.  D.  S.  matter  is  concerned,  to  discuss  the  technica. 
features  and  the  economics  of  definite  proposals  which  the  R.  D.  S.  may  wish  to 
bring  up  for  discussion.  Yesterday  morning  Mr.  Pyzel  had  a  conversation  with 
Sir  Henry  Bettering,  who  is  in  London  at  the  present  time,  and  apparently  the 
conclusion  was  reached  that  Mr.  Pyzel  will  go  to  the  U.  S.  and  be  there  when 
Sir  Harry  arrives.  This  is  to  make  it  possible  to  have  a  three-cornered  discus- 
sion in  the  United  States. 

If  we  are  correct  in  our  belief  that  the  R.  D.  S.  will  build  this  plant,  or  will 
L'ontinue  to  propose  building  it,  not  because  it  in  itself  is  a  profitable  venture  but 
instead  on  account  of  some  ulterior  motive,  it  seems  obvious  that  we  will  not 
get  very  far  discussing  either  technical  matters  or  the  economics  of  the  proposal. 

We  see  Colonel  Pollitt  this  afternoon,  and.  unless  something  new  and  unfore- 
seen arises,  we  are  leaving  for  Billingham  early  this  evening  niid  will  spend  tw'> 
weeks  in  Billingham.  We  will  then  return  to  I^)nd;  ii  and  will,  I  believe,  carry 
on  further  discussions  with  regard  to  the  R.  D.  S.  matter — at  that  time  it  is  to  be 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2887 

assumed  that  the  alcohol  and  acetone  aspirations  of  the  R.  D.  S.  will  be  touched 
upon. 

Yours  very  truly,  ( Sd. )     Walter  Dannenbaum. 

WD/AAD 

P.  S. — The  R.  D.  S.  mode  of  thinking  does  not  recognize  depreciation  as  an 
item  of  cost.  Their  practice  in  the  oil  industry  seems  to  be  to  see  how  much 
profit  can  be  made  and  how  many  years  it  talies  to  write  off  an  investment,  and 
after  the  investment  is  written  off  all  of  the  profifis  profit.  When  we  speak  of  a 
12%  return  and  91/2%  depreciation,  they  speak  of  a  20^/2%  return  and  say  that 
it  will  only  take  five  years  to  write  off  a  plant.  This  viewpoint  makes  it  more 
difficult  to  get  R.  D.  S.  to  worry  about  future  prices  of  nitrogen — it  also  tends 
to  confirm  the  opinion  that  R.  D.  S.  have  in  mind  other  things  than  the  profit 
to  be  made  from  the  plant.  In  a  way,  perhaps,  they  regard  it  as  their  introduc- 
tion into  the  chemical  industry  and  the  cost  of  the  plant  as  the  price  of  education. 
The  total  cost  of  the  California  plant  rated  at  about  60  metric  tons  W2  capacity, 
and  including  a  plant  for  converting  48  metric  tons  of  W2  into  sulphate  and 
18  metric  tons  of  W2  into  calcium  nitrate,  is  approximately  $8,000,000. 

W.  D. 


Exhibit  No.  1093 

[I.  G.  meetings]  *  P.    S. 

E.  K.  B. 
E.  I.  Du  Pont  De  Nemours  &  Company 
Wilmington,  Delaware 

London  Offices,  Bush  House, 
Aldwych,  W.'  C,  2,  July  17,  1933. 
Mr.  Wendell  R.  Swint,  Director, 

Foreign  Relations  Department. 
Letter  no.   1097.     Conferences   in   Germany   with   Mr.   Jasper   B.   Crane,   Vice 
President,  July  9  to  14,  1933,  inclusive. 

I  am  including  in  the  following  paragraphs  results  of  Mr.  Crane's  and  the 
writer's  conversations  during  trip  to  Germany  July  9  to  14,  inclusive.  I  am  not 
writing  separately  to  the  respective  department,  but  am  enclosing  two  extra 
copies  of  this  report,  Mr.  Crane  already  having  received  a  copy  here  in  the 
office. 

Prof.  Dr.  Carl  Bosch,  Heidelberg,  July  10 

Messrs.  Crane  and  Ewing  met  with  Prof.  Dr.  Carl  Bosch  at  his  home  in 
Heidelberg  on  Monday  afternoon,  July  10.  We  found  Professor  Bosch  looking 
extremely  well  considering  his  long  period  of  sickness. 

Mr.  Crane  explained  that  he  was  on  a  trip  to  Europe  to  I'enew  old  friendships, 
this  being  the  first  trip  to  Germany  in  six  years.  There  followed  a  general 
discussion  of  the  economic  situations  in  Germany  and  in  the  United  States,  and 
Prof,  Bosch  confirmed  our  opinion  that  times  in  Germany  at  present  are  very 
difficult,  and  for  industry  the  last  few  weeks  have  been  especially  difficult. 
Whereas  the  revolution  of  1918  consisted  of  the  middle  and  upper  classes  against 
the  lower,  the  present  revolution  consists  of  the  lower  and  middle  classes  against 
the  upper  class  and  industry.  Just  now  It  is  a  question  of  fascism  and  bolsbe- 
vism,  and  industry  must  support  the  present  Government  to  prevent  further 
chaos.  In  the  beginning,  Hitler  did  not  consult  industrial  leaders,  but  in  recent 
weeks  he  has  shown  his  stability  by  curbing  the  more  extreme  element  of  the 
party  and  bringing  the  industrial  leaders  into  consultation  with  him.  Dr. 
Bosch  has  been  in  Berlin  in  direct  contact  with  the  Government,  and  in  fact 
spends  practically  all  of  his  time  between  his  dwelling  in  Heidelberg  and  the 
government  offices  in  Berlin,  thus  leaving  little,  if  any,  time  for  the  affairs  of 
the  I.  G.  Farbenindustrie. 

Dr.  Bosch  expects  a  relief  in  unemployment  taxes  through  the  spreading  of 
work  similar  to  the  scheme  which  has  been  adopted  in  America.  The  unemploy- 
ment figure  is  decreasing,  and  from  a  high  of  about  7,000,000  there  are  now  unem- 
ployed in  Germany  only  about  4,800,000  to  5,000,000. 

The  home  trade  is  improving,  although  the  export  business  has  been  badly  hit. 
According  to  Dr.  Bosch,  Germany  must  export.  Of  the  total  business  of  the 
country  the  normal  export  is  20%,  but  I.  G.  normally  exports  about  60%. 


1  Pencil  markings. 


2888  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Dr.  Bosch  then  told  ns  of  the  I.  G.  Farbenindustrie  pUms  for  oil  from  coal. 
Up  to  the  present  they  have  been  manufacturing  50,000  tons  per  annum  of  gaso- 
line from  tar.  Now  they  have  succeeded  in  manufacturing  gasoline  direct  from 
brown  coal  and  are  at  present  operating  at  the  rate  of  80,000  tons  i>er  year  from 
tar  and  20,000  tons  from  brown  coal.  Plans  are  under  way  to  increase  the  pro- 
duction fourfold,  thus  producing  400,000  tons  of  gasoline  per  year.  We  under- 
stand that  all  of  the  increase  will  be  manufactured  from  brown  coal,  and  produc- 
tion will  therefore  be  divided  80,000  tons  per  year  from  tar  and  320,000  tons  per 
year  from  brown  coal. 

Mr.  Crane  recalled  to  Prof.  Bosch  the  splendid  cooperation  which  we  enjoy 
with  I.  C.  I.,  and  in  this  Prof.  Bosch  was  much  interested.  He  asked  regarding 
collaboration  in  research  work,  saying  that,  in  his  opinion,  there  must  be  compe- 
tition in  research.  Mr.  Crane  explained  that  even  in  the  respective  companies  we 
have  competition  between  different  departments  on  research  work,  but  that  col- 
laboration between  the  two  companies  has  eliminated  unnecessary  duplication. 
Prof.  Bosch  indicated  approval  of  the  idea  of  collaboration  in  research. 

Prof.  Bosch  stated  that  he  wanted  to  retire  from  active  participation  in  indus- 
try and  to  devote  his  time  to  his  scientific  hobbies.  When  asked  who  would  head 
up  the  I.  G.  Farbenindustrie  he  replied.  Dr.  Krauch,  Dr.  ter  Meer,  and  Dr. 
Gajewski,  and  indicated  that  Dr.  Gaus  was  due  to  retire. 

After  our  conversation,  Prof.  Bosch  took  ns  on  a  tour  of  his  laboratories, 
during  which  he  showed  us  also  his  excellent  crystal  collection — one  of  the  best 
in  Germany — and  his  collection  of  beetles  and  buttei'llies. 

Mr.  Crane  explained  that  Grasselli  had  produced  quantities  of  indium  metal, 
and  Professor  Bosch  asked  for  a  sample  of  a  few  grams.  (Will  you  kindly 
arrange  for  transmittal  of  a  representative  quantity  direct  to  Prof.  Bosch?) 

/.  G.  Farhenindustrie  investment 

On  Tuesday,  July  11,  we  met  in  Dr.  Schmitz'  office  at  the  Deutsche  Laender 
Bank,  Berlin.  Present  also  were  Dr.  Krauch,  of  I.  G.  Farbenindustrie,  and  Mr. 
Akers,  of  I.  C.  I.  Mr.  Crane  explained  to  Dr.  Schmitz  the  situation  regarding 
our  investments  in  I.  G.  bonds  and  shares  and  our  desire  to  convert  the  entire 
investment  either  to  cash,  if  that  were  possible,  or  to  shares  in  the  Swiss  com- 
pany or  the  American  I.  G.,  giving  as  the  reason  that  the  dollar  is  now  off  and 
marks  will  buy  more  dollars  than  at  the  former  rate.  Mr.  Crane  said  he  felt 
that  our  investment  in  I.  G.  Farbenindustrie  was  so  small  as  to  be  relatively 
unimportant  to  I.  G.  Farbenindustrie.  Furthermore,  the  growth  of  nationalism 
in  different  countries  would  indicate  that  in  these  small  investments  it  would 
be  a  better  plan  to  sell  the  interest. 

Dr.  Schmitz  emphasized  the  fact  that  I.  G.  does  not  control  the  I.  G.  Chemie- 
Basle,  which  is  strictly  a  Swiss  company  governed  by  a  Swiss  board  of  directors. 
He  also  impressed  upon  us  the  wisdom  of  his  action  several  years  ago  in  setting 
up  the  I.  G.  Chemie-Basle,  as  the  trend  of  recent  events  shows  that  his  plans 
were  well  founded.  I.  G.  Chemie-Basle,  according  to  Dr.  Schmitz,  is  set  up 
to  control  practically  all  investments  of  I.  G.  Farbenindustrie  outside  of  Ger- 
many, and  I.  G.,  Germany,  does  not  own  one  share.  We  presume  that  a  dummy 
Swiss  director  holds  the  I.  G.  interests  in  this  company.  It  was  Dr.  Schmitz' 
opinion  that  it  would  be  quite  impossible  to  convince  the  board  of  I.  G.  Chemie- 
Basle  to  transfer  our  German  holdings  in  return  for  shares  in  the  Swiss  com- 
pany or  in  the  American  company,  and  neither  the  Swiss  directors  nor  the 
directors  of  the  American  I.  G.  would  consent.  In  speaking  with  Mr.  Mitchell 
of  I.  C.  I.  later,  he  said  very  definitely  that  Dr.  Schmitz'  analysis  of  the 
situation  is  untrue. 

Dr.  Schmitz  agreed  to  determine  if  we  can  sell  in  Switzerland  our  German 
bonds  and  shares  and  buy  I.  G.  Chemie-Basle  shares  in  Switzerland.  However, 
as  the  bonds  are  quoted  in  Switzerland  at  about  70%  as  against  118%  in  Ger- 
many (which  difference  accounts  for  the  sperrmarks  transaction  of  40  to  50%), 
it  is  not  likely  that  the  exchange  will  be  attractive. 

Dr.  Schmitz  stated  that  he  wanted  to  keep  us  as  investors  in  the  German 
company  and  felt  that  it  was  onlv  feasible  to  sell  the  bonds  in  Germany  and 
to  buy  I.  G.  shares  in  Germany,  which,  according  to  the  regulations,  would  be 
blocked  for  five  years.  He  promised  to  advise  us  further  on  this  point,  but 
at  the  same  time  agreed  to  assist  us  in  carrying  through  the  transaction  within 
Germany  upon  our  request. 

In  discussing  the  question  later  'at  lunch.  Dr.  Schmitz  told  Mr.  Crane  that 
it  might  be  possible  to  convert  our  I.  G.  holdings  to  I.  G.  Chemie-Basle.  pro- 
viding we  would  take  the  revenue  therefrom  in  the  form  of  blocked  marks. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2889 

This  scheme  is  unattractive,  as  the  I.  G.  Chemie-Basle  shares  would  not  be 
salable  with  the  dividend  restriction. 

Present  at  the  luncheon,  in  addition  to  Mr.  Crane  and  the  writer,  were:  Dr. 
Schmitz;  Mr.  Akers ;  Dr.  Jaeobi,  commercial  director,  nitroj,^en  dept.,  I.  G. ; 
Mr.  Oster,  director,  Stickstoff-Syndicate ;  Dr.  Krauch,  director,  nitrogen  dept., 
I.  G. ;  Dr.  Mueller,  manager  of  Oppau ;  Mr.  Pfarenhorst,  asst.  manager  of 
Oppau ;  and  Mr.  Schneider,  manager  of  Merseburg. 

Hydrogen  &  nitrogen  cooperation 

Following  the  luncheon,  we  met  in  Dr.  Krauch's  office  with  Mr.  Akers,  Dr. 
Mueller,  and  Mr.  Pfarenhorst  to  discuss  hydrogen  and  nitrogen  cooperation. 
In  principle,  the  representatives  of  the  I.  G.  agree  that  a  technical  exchange  of 
nitrogen  is  desirable,  but  they  would  prefer  to  discuss  the  situation  further 
with  their  commercial  people,  who  at  the  moment  do  not  see  how  the  two 
companies  could  continue  to  compete  in  neutral  markets.  While  agreeing  in 
principle,  I.  G.  Farbenindustrie  cannot  reduce  the  contracts  to  written  form 
because  of  the  present  chaos  in  the  Government  and  the  suspicion  which  would 
follow  an  international  cooperative  movement  of  this  kind.  The  Government 
men  in  high  place  are  being  clianged  daily,  which  also  makes  it  difficult  to 
discuss  the  situation.  Dr.  Krauch  also  confirmed  that  Dr.  Bosch  is  in  constant 
touch  with  the  Government  and  believes  that  in  the  end  sane  views  will  prevail. 

Meeting  with  KoTcswerke  July  11 

At  3 :  30  we  met  with  Dr.  Berckemeyer,  Dr.  Bie,  Dr.  Borner,  and  Dr.  Weltzien, 
at  Kokswerke's  office,  when  the  economic  situations  in  Germany  and  the  United 
States  were  discussed.  Later,  Mr.  Crane  visited  Spindlersfeld  in  company  with 
Dr.  Borner,  and  in  the  evening  we  dined  with  Dr.  Weil,  Dr.  Borner,  and  Dr. 
Weltzien  before  taking  the  train  for  Frankfurt. 

Meeting  tvith  Scheideanstalt  July  12 

Having  learned  by  telephone  from  Berlin  that  Dr.  Busemann  was  leaving 
early  on  Wednesday  morning  for  holiday,  we  called  upon  him  at  9  o'clock  at 
the  Scheideanstalt  offices  in  Frankfurt.  Respective  affairs  in  the  two  com- 
panies were  discussed,  and  Dr.  Busemann  touched  upon  the  proposed  du  Pont- 
Scheidenastalt  agreement.  He  also  referred  to  the  proposal  to  curtail  or  elimi- 
nate the  Downs  process  royalties  and  referred  to  the  histoi-y  of  the  development 
of  this  situation  and  the  different  events  with  Dr.  Carveth.  Later  we  saw 
Mr.  Schlosser,  who  confirmed  the  feeling  of  Scheidenastalt  with  respect  to  the 
Downs  process.  Mr.  Schlosser  stated  that  Mr.  Berwind  would  be  returaing 
to  Frankfurt  from  New  York  in  a  few  days,  following  his  discussions  in  the 
U.  S.  A.  with  the  R.  and  H.  chemicals  department  and  would  no  doubt  have 
some  comment  with  I'espect  to  our  intentions  on  the  Downs  agreement. 

Meeting  v>ith  I.  O.  Farbenindustrie  July  12 

At  10  o'clock  we  called  at  the  main  offices  of  I.  G.  Farbenindustrie  and  spent 
some  time  with  Dr.  von  Schnitzler  and  Dr.  ter  Meer,  and  were  later  joined  at 
iHncheon  by  Mr.  Weber-Andreae.  Mr.  Crane  related  the  trend  of  developments 
in  the  United  States  and  emphasized  the  fact  that  a  strong  feeling  of  national- 
ism pei-vades  our  country  today.  The  German  gentleman  discussed  the  political 
situation  in  Germany,  with  particular  reference  to  the  positive  position  of  the 
Government  against  the  Jews.  They  also  explained  how  Herr  Krupp  had  de- 
velope<l  a  scheme  whereby  industry  could  contribute  to  the  party  organization 
funds;  and,  in  fact,  every  industry  is  called  upon  to  pay  y.^%  of  the  annual  wage 
and  salary  roll  to  the  Nazi  organization.  For  the  I.  G.  Farbenindustrie  the. 
annual  amount  is  about  RM.  1,000  000.  which  would  indicate  a  combined  annual 
wage  and  salary  payment  of  the  I.  G.  Farbenindustrie  of  RM.  200,000,000.  or 
$50,000,000  at  par.  Later  it  was  learned  that  the  employees  of  I.  G.  total  68,000, 
exclusive  of  mine  workers  and  those  in  affiliated  companies. 

During  the  course  of  the  morning  I  took  occasion  to  explain  to  Dr.  ter  Meer 
the  functions  of  Dr.  W.  F.  Zimmerli,  attached  to  the  London  office,  and  received 
a  very  favorable  reaction  from  Dr.  ter  Meer,  who  had  already  met  Dr.  Zim- 
merli personally.  It  was  Dr.  ter  Meer's  expressed  idea  that  du  Pont  and  I.  G. 
Farbenindustrie  should  collaborate  more  closely  on  research  and  development 
ideas,  and  he  would  be  glad  to  have  Dr.  Zimmerli  confer  with  the  different 
laboratory  heads.  (Although  Dr.  Zimmerli  has  already  met  many  of  the  lead- 
83876— 35— PT  12 17 


2890  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

ers  in  I.  G.  research,  he  has  purposely  refrained  from  making  any  direct  con- 
tact witli  tliem  until  after  his  first  meeting  with  Dr.  ter  Meer.  Accordingly, 
the  way  seems  to  be  clear  now  for  Dr.  Zimmerli  to  pursue  his  work  through 
the  I.  G.  Farbenindustrie  organization.) 

Following  luncheon,  we  visited  Dr.  Carl  von  Weinberg,  who  is  now  73  years 
old  and  who  comes  to  the  office  daily  for  consultation  with  the  active  members 
of  the  I.  G.  Dr.  von  Weinberg  also  discussed  the  situation  in  Germany  and, 
although  he  is  a  Jew,  has  given  the  movement  his  full  stamp  of  approval.  He 
stated  further  that  all  of  his  money  is  invested  in  Germany  and  he  does  not 
have  one  pfennig  outside  the  country.  We  spoke  of  the  proposed  increase  in 
collaboration  with  I.  G.,  to  which  he  was  in  heart.v  agreement.  In  touching 
upon  I.  G.'s  interest  in  the  U.  S.  A.,  Dr.  von  Weinberg  indicated  that  I.  G.  was 
very  well  pleased  with  the  investment,  and  by  suggestion  gave  us  to  understand 
that  they  had  no  intention  of  retiring  from  that  market. 

Interviews  in  general  with  I.  G.  Farbenindustrie  were  of  a  very  pleasant 
nature,  and  indicated  the  closer  cooperation  which  is  manifest  between  du  Pont 
and  that  company. 

Dr.  Paul  Mueller,  Cologne,  July  IS 

We  made  a  brief  call  on  Dr.  Paul  Mueller  in  Cologne,  when  Mr.  Crane  men- 
tioned that  we  would  probably  want  to  dispose  of  our  German  holdings  if 
IX)SS!ble.  Dr.  Mueller  showed  keen  disappointment  and  regretted  exceedingly 
that  we  would  want  to  part  with  our  interests  in  D.  A.  G.,  and  felt  that,  if  for 
no  reason  other  than  for  sentimental  attachment,,  we  should  try  if  possible  to 
retain  them.  While  he  would  not  object  if  we  had  gootl  reasons  for  selling,  yet 
he  would  fe(4  a  personal  loss  if  we  were  to  dispose  of  our  equity.  We  left  it 
that  we  would  probably  not  dispose  of  our  D.  A.  G.  shares,  but  that  if  the  time 
should  ever  come  when  our  holding  of  these  shares  would  prove  to  be  an  em- 
barrassment to  Dr.  Mueller,  he  would  advise  us  immediately,  when  disposal 
arrangements  could  be  made. 

Dr.  Mueller  spoke  of  the  development  at  Troisdorf,  saying  that  their  present 
rate  of  production  is  4,000  kilos,  celluloid  daily,  divided  between  four  factories. 
In  fact,  celluloid  is  declining  at  a  rapid  rate  and  is  being  displaced  by  the  new 
synthetic  resins,  such  as  urea  formaldehyde  and  phenyl  formaldehyde. 
HHE/AAD  Homer  H.  Ewing. 

Exhibit  No.  1094 

[Copy  to  Mr.  W.   H.  O'Gorman,  Smokeless  Powder  Dept.] 

Col.  W.  N.  Tatlor,  November  18,  1929. 

E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  £  Co.,  Military  Sales  Department, 
16  Place  Vendome,  Paris,  France. 

Deiar  Colonel  Taylor  :  As  you  probably  know  the  London  oflBce  recently  signed 
a  contract  with  the  Lurgi  Corporation  which  is  the  chemical  engineering  sub- 
sidiary of  Frankfurt  Metallbank  relative  to  the  exploitation  of  the  ammonia  oxi- 
dation process  in  certain  European  countries.  The  artillery  department  of  the 
Royal  Swedish  Army  recently  wrote  them  asking  for  assistance  in  planning  a 
factory  for  the  manufacture  of  oxidation  of  ammonia  to  nitric  acid.  It  happens 
that  Sweden  is  not  in  the  territory  assigned  to  Lurgi,  and  we  believe  that  the 
inquiry  emanated  as  the  result  of  Dr.  Sparre's  discussions  with  Mr.  Ragnar  Sohl- 
mann  last  June.    Our  London  office  is,  therefore,  handling  the  matter  direct. 

I  am  forwarding  this  information  to  you  purely  for  your  general  information 
as  you  are  of  course  interested  in  any  relations  we  may  have  with  any  European 
war  departments.    Possibly  the  London  office  have  already  told  you  about  this. 

Very  truly  yours.  Foreign  Relations  Committee, 

jkj/ems  J.  K.  Jenney,  Secretary. 


Exhibit  No.  1095 

[Copy   to  :   Messrs.   F.    E.   Pickard,   F.   B.    Davis,  Jr.,  J.   E.    Crane,   Wm.   Rich  ter,   W.   F. 
Harrington,  H.  G.  Haskell,  Fin  Sparre] 

Wilmington,  Deit,., 
To :  Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont,  President.  October  19,  1928. 

From  :   Foreign  Relations  Committee. 

Witli  reference  to  your  memorandum  to  Mr.  Pickard  of  October  17th,  attach- 
ing letter  from  Mr.  Agache,  stating  that  he  and  Mr.  Berr  would  like  to  visit 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2891 

some  of  our  plants,  I  have  ascertained  from  Messrs.  Harrington,  Richter  and 
Davis  that  there  is  no  ohjection,  so  far  as  tliey  are  concerned,  to  showing  these 
gentlemen  the  dye  works,  Philadelphia  and  Arlington  plants.  Mr.  Crane  feels 
that  we  have  no  right  to  show  them  the  Belle  phint  which  is  unfortunate  as  I 
judge  this  is  the  plant  they  will  be  most  anxious  to  see. 

Mr.  Donat  Agache  is  president  of  Kulilmann,  being  a  grandson  of  Frederic 
Kuhlmaun,  the  founder  of  the  company.  He  wasi  boru  in  1882,  educated  in 
France  and  at  Oxford,  has  traveled  extensively  in  England  and  the  United 
States.  He  was  recalled  from  the  front  in  1915  to  become  managing  director 
of  Kuhlmann,  and  to  coordinate  the  activities  of  his  company  with  the 
munitions  department  of  the  Government.  He  became  president  in  1921.  He 
is  also  a  director  of  the  Ciiemins  de  fer  du  Nord,  of  the  Mines  d'Anzin  and  a 
director  of  the  A.  C.  S.  A.  (International  Casale). 

Mr.  Raymond  Berr,  with  whom  Mr.  Crane  is  acquainted,  is  director  general 
of  the  organic  chemical  activities  of  Kuhlmann,  and  he  is  in  charge  of  the  pro- 
duction of  synthetic  nitrogen  and  nitrogen  fertilizersi. 

As  you  know,  the  du  Pont  Company  has  had  friendly  relations  with  Kuhl- 
mann through  our  dyestuffs  department,  and  on  various  chemical  matters, 
principally  through  our  development  department.  It  is  by  all  odds  the  most 
important  company  in  the  dyestuffs  and  general  chemical  field  in  France.  It 
has  recently  been  branching  out  into  synthetic  ammonia  (Casale  process)  and 
synthetic  methyl  alcohol  (General  Patart's  process)  and  our  Loudon  office  is 
now  negotiating  with  them  relative  to  the  possible  purchase  of  our  ammonia 
oxidation  process  rights  for  Europe.  Tlie  company  has  also  entered  the  rayon 
industry,  and  has  recently  expanded  its  activities  in  lithopoue.  I  believe  that 
their  activities  parallel  ours  in  such  lines  as:  Lactic  acid,  acetic  acid,  carbon 
bisulphide,  sulphuric  acid,  sulphur  dioxide,  rubber  accelerators,  etc.,  etc.  They 
recently  purchased  the  General  Electric  glyptal  resin  patents  for  France,  and 
are  building  a  plant.  It  is  also  reported  that  they  have  purchased  the  Pollak 
patents  for  France  on  phenol  formaldehyde  moulding  powders,  plastics,  glass, 
lacquers,  etc.  We  have  heard  nothing  recently  concerning  their  activities  in  the 
laquer  field,  but  Mr.  Albert  Blum  told  us  about  a  year  ago  that  they  had  invented 
a  substitute  for  duco  which  he  said  was  supposed  to  be  superior  to  it,  and  is  being 
manufactured,  or  will  he  manufactured,  by  Kuhlmann.  Sometime  back  they 
also  expressed  interest  in  the  manufacture  of  tetra-ethyl  lead  for  France. 

As  you  also  know,  the  outstanding  point  about  their  relations  with  other 
companies  is  the  Kuhlmann-I.  G.  agreement  of  dyestuffs.  Tliere  have  also  been 
numerous  rumours  that  this  agreement  will  be  extended  into  the  nitrogen  field, 
and  we  have  also  heard  that  the  I.  G.  has  aided  them  in  the  production  of 
mixed  fertilizer.s  (nitrophoska). 

We  have  more  detailed  information  along  the  above  lines  in  our  files  in  case 
you  are  interested, 
jkj/ems.  (S)     J.  K.  Kenney,  Secretary/. 

Exhibit  No.  1096 

London  Office,  Bush  House, 

AxDwicH,  W.  C.  2, 

August  11,  19S1. 
Copy  to:  Mr.  J.  T.  Mason,  Nitrate  Division,  Purchasing  Dept.,  Foreign  Relations 

Dept, 
Nitrogen. 

Mr.  F.  W.  Wabdenburg, 

President  Du  Pont  Amitionia  Corporation, 

Wilmington,  Del. 

We  had  a  further  conversation  with  Mr.  Speyer,  of  I.  C.  I.,  and  obtained  some 
additional  information  on  the  recent  nitrogen  conferences.  The  Brussels  con- 
ference finally  broke  down,  due  to  the  attitude  of  the  French.  The  Germans 
were  not  able  to  agree  to  the  economic  and  political  demands  made,  and  the 
breach  is  so  wide  that  there  is  very  little  chance  of  further  conferences,  at  least 
for  six  or  nine  months. 

The  press  reports  did  not  state  that  I.C.I,  were  attending  this  confei-ence 
I.C.I,  informed  us  that  they  purposely  did  not  attend,  mainly  because  they 
believed  very  little  could  be  accomplished.  In  addition,  they  anticipated  that 
the  Fi-ench  would  make  impossible  demands  and  by  not  attending  they  pro- 
vided the  opportunity  for  the  Germans  to  delay  proceedings  if  necessary  for 
conferences  with  I.  C.  I.     The  Chileans,  of  course,  were  not  in  attendance,  and 


2892  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

as  there  is  no  agreement  between  the  synthetic  producers,  there  is  no  possibility 
of  any  agreement  with  the  Chileans. 

The  sulphate  market  is  reported  to  be  very  weak,  and  prices  are  being  quoted 
in  Holland  by  Dutch  producers  of  £4. —  per  ton  at  works.  This  is  equivalent  ta 
$23. —  c.i.f.  United  States.  I.C.I,  have  just  announced  a  price  of  £16.10 — 
per  ton  for  sulphate  delivered  any  railway  station  in  England.  This  price  is 
reported  to  be  just  a  feeler,  and  they  are  willing  to  quote  lower  prices  when  any 
business  is  in  sight. 

The  Chileans  are  still  very  quiet.  Their  recent  price  announcment  is  about  on 
the  same  scale  as  last  year's.  The  price  for  England  is  reported  at  present  to 
be  £8,17. — .,  at  which  figure  they  can  expect  no  sales.  It  is  rumored  that  they 
are  shortly  to  announce  a  new  price  about  30/ —  per  ton  lower  than  that  given 
above,  but  even  this  reduction  will  not  be  sufficient  to  stimulate  business. 

Mr.  Ewing  bad  an  opportunity  to  discuss  nitrogen  with  Dr.  Weber-Andreae 
of  the  I.  G.  while  in  Germany  last  week.  Mr.  Andreae  reports  that  it  is 
absolutely  impossible  to  come  to  an  agreement,  and  it  will  now  be  a  fight  to  a 
finish.  The  I.  G.  is  reported  to  be  prepared  for  this,  but  they  do  not  know  how 
low  prices  are  likely  to  go. 

We  will  try  and  give  you  additional  information  as  it  is  obtained.  At  present 
everyone  seems  to  be  waiting  for  the  other  fellow,  and  no  one  has  a  definite  price 
program.  These  conditions  are  exi>ected  to  last  for  several  weeks,  with  con- 
stantly falling  prices.  At  present  no  one  is  willing  to  forecast  just  how  low  prices 
may  go. 

(S)   Henry  E.  Fobd. 
HEF :  MH 


("Exhibit  No.  1097"  appears  in  text  on  p.  2811.) 


Exhibit  No.  1098 

[Du    Pont — Russia.     Copies   to    F.    A.    Wardenburg,    gen.    mgr..    Ammonia    Department ; 
W'.  J.  Beadle,  asst.  dir.,  Development  Dept. ] 

January  23,  1934. 
Russia — Possible  sale  of  nitrogen  information. 
F.  W.  PioKARD,  Vice  President. 
J.  Thompson  Brown,  Vice  President. 

In  connection  with  Mr.  Wardenburg's  report  to  the  executive  committee, 
January  22nd,  asking  for  instructions  in  the  event  the  representatives  of  the 
Russian  Nitrogen  Trust  (who  are  visiting  Belle  this  week)  are  interested  in 
purchasing  our  process,  the  following  summary  of  previous  relationship  with  the 
Russian  Government,  relative  to  sale  of  processes,  may  be  of  interest : 

In  May  1929  contract  for  sale  of  our  ammonia  oxidation  process  to  Chimstroy 
(which  is  the  Russian  Chemical  Trust)  was  consummated  through  the  Amtorg 
Trading  Corporation,  New  York.  Under  this  contract  two  plants  were  con- 
structed under  the  supervision  of  du  Pont  engineers,  who  were  sent  to  Russia. 
Payments,  amounting  to  $50,0(X),  were  made  promptly.  Exchange  of  information 
provision  in  the  contract  expires  May  1934. 

On  July  22,  1929,  the  Development  Department  submitted  a  report  to  the 
executive  committee,  stating  that  Amtorg  had  applied  for  our  lithopone  infor- 
mation. The  executive  committee  authorized  them  to  discuss  this  matter  further 
witii  Amtorg  and  the  New  Jersey  Zinc  Co.  The  files  of  neither  the  Foreign 
Relations  Department,  the  Development  Department,  nor  the  executive  com- 
mittee are  clear  as  to  the  final  disposition  of  this  matter.  Presumably  the 
Russians  were  not  interested  in  paying  the  amount  asked. 

On  August  2,  1929.  Mr.  F.  W.  I'ickard  submitted  a  report  to  the  executive 
committee  on  Russian  Government  business  and  the  committee  passed  the 
following  resolution : 

"  The  Amtorg  Trading  Corporation  should  be  advised  that  the  Du  Pont  Com- 
pany does  not  care  to  enter  into  any  general  agreement  for  the  supply  of  infor- 
mation, advice,  plans,  construction,  or  processes  for  use  in  Russia,  nor  to  under- 
take any  consti'uction  involving  financing  of  connnercial  projects  in  Russia. 

"  Tlie  Du  Pont  Company  is  willing  and  glad  to  negotiate  for  the  sale  of  any 
goods  to  the  Amtoi-g  Trading  Corporation  for  export  to  Russia,  each  order  to  be 
(onsidered  independently. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2893 

"  There  is  also  no  objection  to  the  outright  sale  of  plans  or  processes,  provided 
in  each  case  the  fee  to  be  received  by  the  Du  Pont  Company  appears  adequate 
and  the  receipt  thereof  assui-ed. 

"  In  carrying  out  this  policy,  we  shall  be  governed  by  the  proposed  I.  C.  I. 

"on  April  2,  1930,  the  executive  committee  authorized  the  Development  De- 
partment to  continue  negotiations  with  Amtorg  relative  to  the  sale  of  dyestuffs, 
rubber  chemical,  and  Duco  information,  subject  to  consultation  with  I.  C.  I. 
It  developed  that  I.  C.  I.  had  also  been  approached  by  Arcos  (the  London  office 
of  the  Russian  Foreign  Trade  Organization)  for  information  on  dyestuffs.  It 
was  finally  decided  that  I.  C.  I.  would  withdraw  from  the  negotiations  but  would 
receive  15  percent  of  the  fee  paid  by  the  Russian  Government  to  us  for  our 
information.  This  offer  was  made  to  compensate  I.  C.  I.  for  their  information, 
in  our  possession,  which  would  be  passed  along  to  the  Russians.  At  a  meet- 
ing with  Lord  Melchett  and  Sir  Harry  McGowan,  in  New  York,  August  1930,  it 
developed  that  I.  C.  I.  were  strongly  opposed  to  the  sale  of  technical  iufonna- 
tion  to  Russia.  At  executive  committee  meeting,  September  17,  1930,  it  was 
resolved  that  the  Du  Pont  Company  was  not  justified  in  continuing  its  nego- 
tiations with  Russia  for  the  sale  of  its  information  on  dyestuffs.  Negotiations 
in  connection  with  the  sale  of  Duco  information  were  to  be  continued. 

There  is  no  record  in  our  files  as  to  the  final  outcome  of  the  Duco  negotia- 
tions but  we  presume  that  they  were  dropped  after  resolution  of  the  board  of 
directors,  October  1930,  that  the  Du  Pont  Company  at  this  time  should  not 
enter  any  arrangement  in  the  nature  of  a  partnership  with  the  Russian 
Government. 

On  March  19,  1931,  the  executive  committee  informed  the  Development  De- 
partment that  the  methanol  process  should  not  be  sold  to  Amtorg. 

As  pointed  out  above,  we  recognized  an  obligation  to  keep  I.  C.  I.  informed 
of  our  negotiations  with  respect  to  dyestuffs  and  their  feeling  in  the  matter 
was  a  considerable  factor  in  our  decision  to  drop  negotiations.  We  did  not 
recognize  any  obligation  to  them  in  the  case  of  Duco  (in  w'hich  industry  their 
license  territory  is  limited  to  the  British  Empire)  or  lithopone  (in  which 
industry  they  are  not  engaged). 

During  the  course  of  the  dyestuffs  negotiations,  the  executive  committee 
decided  not  to  inform  the  I.  G.  that  the  negotiations  were  being  carried  on. 
After  we  withdrew  from  them,  London  office  was  instructed  to  telephone  the 
information  to  Dr.  Von  Schnitzler.  Due  to  a  misunderstanding,  the  London 
office  telegraphed  the  information,  thus  making  it  a  matter  of  formal  record. 

I  am  not  able  to  locate  the  information  in  our  files  but  it  is  my  recollection 
that  Dr.  Bosch  informed  Mr.  Pickard  or  some  other  official  of  the  company, 
some  years  ago,  that  the  Russians  had  used  an  offer  received  from  us  to 
force  the  I.  G.'s  hand  at  the  time  they  made  a  deal  on  dyestuffs  witli  the 
Russians  in  about  1926. 

Mr.  Pickard  informed  the  I.  G.  that  we  had  refused  to  sell  the  Russians 
information  on  methanol  and  this  was  acknowledged,  with  thanks,  by  Dr. 
Gaus. 

Following  are  the  prices  at  which  we  offered  our  information : 

Dyestuffs  and  rubber  chemicals $3,000,000 

Lacquer 1,000,000 

20  percent  on  signing  the  agreement ;  00  percent  in  installments  as  complete  in- 
formation would  be  given  to  the  Russian  representatives,  probably  witliin  6- 
months'  time ;  and  the  balance  of  20  percent  21  months  after  the  last  informa- 
tion had  been  submitted. 

The  Russian  representatives  objected  to  the  amount  and  short  term  of  pay- 
ment. It  was  subsequently  proposed  to  extend  the  terms  to  cover  a  3-year 
period. 

Lithopone $75,000 

to  be  paid  in  installments,  the  final  installment  to  be  paid  3  months  after 
plant  is  in  operation.     It   was  proposed  to  charge   an   additional   royalty   of 
$4.00  per  metric  ton  ^  in  return  for  which  Du  Pont  would  act  in  a  consulting 
capacity  and  give  them  the  benefit  of  new  developments. 
1  Installed  capacity. 

Foreign  Reu^-tionb  Department, 
J.  K.  Jenny,  Asst.  Director. 
JKJ.C. 


2894  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Exhibit  No.  1009 

[Nitrogen.     Strictly   confidential.     Copy   to  Mr.   W.   R.   Swint,   London  office] 

Bush  House, 
Aldwych,  W.  C,  2,  July  19,  1932. 
Nitrogen  convention — England. 
Mr.  F.  A.  Wardenburg, 

Qeneral  Manager  Ammonia  Department: 

In  our  cable  of  July  12  we  advised  you  that  tlie  nitrogen  meeting  which  had 
been  in  progress  in  Paris  liad  been  transferred  to  England,  and  that  we  would 
report  any  progress.  Up  until  this  morning  there  had  been  no  apparent  progress 
in  reports  received  from  I.  C.  I.,  but  late  last  night  an  agreement  was  reached 
among  the  synthetic  producers.  A  new  Convention  International  de  1' Azote  was 
formed,  including  all  the  synthetic  producers  of  Europe.  The  convention  was 
really  brought  about  by  the  D.  E.  N.  group,  or,  in  other  words,  Germany,  Eng- 
land, and  Norway,  but  as  yet  the  Chileans  have  not  been  included.  It  is  the 
earnest  desire  of  the  synthetic  manufacturers  to  have  them  come  in,  but  Mr. 
Welpley,  president  of  Cosach,  has  not  been  able  to  agree  on  quota.  He  is  in 
constant  cable  communication  with  Chile,  and  at  the  present  stage  of  the  negotia- 
tions, there  is  an  equal  chance  that  an  agreement  will  or  will  not  be  reached 
with  the  Chileans. 

The  synthetic  producers  agreed  in  principle  that  the  home  market  should  be 
maintained  insofar  as  it  is  possible  for  the  home  producers,  and,  in  this  connec- 
tion, Fi'ance  was  the  most  difficult  market  with  which  to  deal.  The  export  is 
divided  by  percentage  quota,  which  is  based  closely  on  the  export  ratio  of  the 
D.  E.  N.  group,  from  whose  figures  portions  have  been  allotted  to  the  smaller 
producers.  The  members  of  the  C.  I.  A.,  as  given  to  me  today  by  Mr.  Akers, 
are,  in  addition  to  Norwegian,  German,  and  English  producers,  those  of  Holland, 
Czechoslovakia,  Italy,  Belgium,  and  Switzerland,  together  with  Mekog  and  the 
State  mines  of  Holland.  All  of  these  have  a  percentage  quota  in  the  new 
C.  I.  A.,  but  Schluskill  and  the  Poles  have  been  given  specific  tonnages. 

Quite  apart  from  the  C.  I.  A.  agreement,  the  D.  E.  N.  group  have  bought  off 
completely  Ressaix  Laval,  which  is  the  Belgian  plant  under  construction,  and 
which  will  not  be  completed,  and  have  also  paid  to  the  Schluskill  owners  an 
amount  for  closing  down  a  fair  portion  of  the  Schluskill  plant.  Mr.  Akers 
estimates  that  in  effect  not  more  than  one  unit  will  operate  after  the  agreement 
is  finally  concluded. 

Regarding  the  United  States,  the  synthetic  producers  have  sold  forward 
already  for  this  year  175,000  tons,  but  from  the  date  of  the  agreement  onward 
export  sales  to  the  U.  S.  vv-ill  be  regulated  through  the  C.  I.  A.  Mr.  Akers 
contemls  that  the  C.  I.  A.  will  not  ship  into  the  U.  S.  any  more  than  the  market 
can  easily  absorb  and  explains  that  in  these  times,  when  steel  production  is 
low  and  l3yproduct  anunonia  is  light  in  quantity,  sales  may  probably  be  heavier 
than  when  an  improvement  in  steel  production  is  apparent.  At  any  rate,  the 
sales  for  the  U.  S.  will  now  be  regTilated  through  C.  I.  A.  instead  of  being 
handled  by  each  individual  producer. 

It  is  the  feeling  of  the  members  of  the  new  cartel  that  if  Chile  comes  into  the 
fold,  there  still  remain  three  producers  to  be  dealt  with,  namely.  Trail  in  western 
Canada,  NACCO,  and  the  Japanese.  With  the  inclusion  of  these  there  will  be 
a  world-wide  nitrogen  cartel,  which  with  the  most  difficult  situation  in  Europe 
straightened  out  should  pi'oceed  in  a  successful  fashion. 

All  of  this  information  was  given  to  me  in  a  strictly  confidential  fashion  by 
Mr.  Akers,  who  stated  that  not  any  of  it  had  been  released  excepting  certain 
phases  which  had  been  sold  by  the  French  delegation  to  the  French  press. 

In  connection  with  the  sale  of  certain  of  our  information  to  the  Japanese,  I 
am  wondering  if  our  position  is  perfectly  clear  to  I.  C.  I.  Naturally,  I  have  no 
reason  to  raise  the  question  here. 

Attached  is  confirmation  of  cablegram  sent  you  today. 

Homer  H,  Ewing. 
HHE/AAD. 
Enc,  copy  cable  sent  today. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2895 

Exhibit  No.  1100 

[Triparty  agreement.     Nitrogen] 

(Imperial   Chemical   Industries,   Limited,   from   the   chairman,    Sir   Harr^- 
McGoiwan,  K.  B.  E.) 

Mellbank,  London,  S.  W.  I., 

10th  May  1933. 
Synthetic  nitrogen — exchange  of  information  with  I.  G. 

Lammot  du  Pont,  Esq., 

E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours,  Inc., 

Wilminffton,  Del.,  U.  S.  A. 

My  DB1A.R  Lammot:  As  a  result  of  our  agreement  with  the  International 
Hydrogenation  Patents  Company  and  our  cooperation  with  the  I.  G.  to  put 
forward  a  joint  scheme  for  a  nitrogen  plant  in  China,  we  find  ourselves  in 
rather  a  curious  position  vis-a-vis  tlie  I.  G.,  and  I  would  like  to  ask  you  if  you 
would  consider  if  we  cannot  simplify  this. 

As  you  know,  the  hydrogenation  agreement  requires  the  I.  G.  and  ourselves  to 
pass  to  I.  H.  P.  our  information  on  the  manufacture  of  hydrogen.  This  knowl- 
edge is  available  to  licensees  of  I.  H.  P.  for  the  strictly  limited  field  of  hydro- 
genation of  coal  and  oil. 

In  actual  practice,  as  I.  H.  P.  has  no  effective  technical  department,  and  as 
we  are  interested  in  hydrogenation  as  possible  licensees  of  I.  H.  P.,  we  exchange 
information  within  the  scope  of  this  agreement  directly  with  I.  G. — and  not 
through  I.  H.  P.  So  far,  both  I.  G.  and  ourselves  are  quite  satisfied  that  no 
improper  use  has  been  made  of  this  hydrogen  information  by  either  party,  and 
this  is  simplified  by  the  fact  that  we  have  both  restricted  the  knowledge  of  this 
information  to  personnel  interested  solely  in  hydrogenation. 

If  we  should  decide  to  build  a  hydrogenation  plant,  and  you  will  remember 
that  in  my  speech  to  the  I.  C.  I.  shareholders  I  expressed  a  strong  hope  that 
our  Government  would  so  modify  its  fiscal  regulations  in  regard  to  new  indu.s- 
tries  as  to  make  this  possible,  we  should  erect  the  factory  at  Billinghaui,  making 
our  present  hydrogen  plant  common  to  both  ammonia  synthesis  and  hydro- 
genation. 

We  have  for  some  time  been  considering  the  advisability  of  introducing  the 
principle  of  the  removal  of  sulphur  from  the  gases  before  these  enter  the 
hydrogen  catalysis  plant,  and  if  we  should  decide  to  go  ahead  with  hydrogena- 
tion, we  should  most  certainly  adopt  this  step,  as  it  will  give  us  a  small  increase 
in  the  output  of  the  hydrogen  plant,  of  which  we  shall  be  in  need.  I  do  not 
think  that  we  have  anything  to  learn  from  the  I.  G.  on  this  question  of  sulphur 
removal,  but  if  we  were  considering  the  position,  solely  from  the  point  of  view 
of  hydrogenation  we  should  naturally  investigate  the  experience  of  the  I.  G.  in 
this  process. 

You  will  undei-stand  now  tliiit  our  position  is  a  litttle  diflOicult,  because  if  we 
proceed  to  introduce  sulphur  removal  into  our  hydrogen  plant,  after  a  dis- 
cussion by  our  hydrogenation  staff  with  I.  G.,  they  would  be  in  a  position  to 
maintain  that  we  had  made  use  of  information  which  we  had  obtained  from 
them  not  only  within  the  hydrogenation  field  but  also  in  connection  with  our 
ammonia  manufacture. 

Apart  from  the  complication  arising  through  hydrogenation,  a  somewnat 
similar  position  confronts  us  in  connection  with  the  joint  pl'an  between  the 
I.  G.  and  ourselves  with  regard  to  the  nitrogen  plant  for  China.  In  order  that 
we  should  be  satisfied  that  any  scheme  we  put  forward  for  a  nitrogen  plant 
in  that  country  should  represent  the  most  efiicient  plant  which  can  be  designed, 
making  use  of  the  knowledge  which  we  both  possess,  we  agreed  with  the  I.  G. 
that  two  members  of  our  st'afC  should  cooperate  with  two  members  of  theirs 
to  draw  up  the  plans.  Although  they  did  not  discuss  minor  details  of  the  design, 
it  was  clearly  necessary  for  them  to  discuss  with  each  other  the  general  prin- 
ciples of  the  plant.  Here  again  we  are  both  satisfied  that  the  exchange  of  in- 
formation has  been  limited  to  its  use  for  the  design  of  this  plant,  as  the  tech- 
nicians on  each  side  have  not  passed  on  the  infoi'mation  to  their  colleagues. 

The  position,  very  naturally,  is  rather  delicate  and  would  become  more  so 
if  we  were  actually  proceeding  with  the  erection  of  this  Chinese  plant. 

From  the  foregoing  you  will  appreciate  that  a  complete  simplication  of  the 
position  could  be  obtained  if  we  were  free  to  exchange  with  the  I.  G.  informa- 


2896  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

tion  on  the  wliole  of  our  nitrogen  plant.     Obviously,  of  course,  however,  we 
cannot  consider  this  without  your  agreement. 

I  think  tliat  this  general  scheme  is  one  which  will  require  very  careful 
consideration  and  I  would  like  to  leave  it  over  for  discussion  when  we  next 
meet. 

The  limited  question  of  hydrogen  information  is,  however,  a  more  pressing 
one  in  view  of  our  interest  in  hydrogenation,  so  that  I  am  writing  today  to 
ask  if  you  can  see  your  way  to  allow  us  to  exchange  information  with  the  I.  G. 
on  the  manufacture  of  hydrogen  up  to  the  point  where  it  leaves  the  hydrogen 
catalysis  plant. 

You  will  understand,  of  course,  that  we  have  not  discussed  this  with  the 
I.  G.  as,  clearly,  we  must  obtain  your  consent  first.  I  think,  however,  that  the 
I.  G.  would  raise  no  objection  as  I  am  sure  that  they  feel  the  present  position, 
as  much  as  we  do. 

Yours  sincerely, 

(Sd)     H.  McGowAN. 

Exhibit  No.  1101 
Notes  on  Chart  A — Exhibit  No.  1103. 

INTERNATIONAL     RELATIONS     ON     IMMEDIATE     OR     CONVERTIBLE     WAR     MATERIALS 

OR    PROCESSES 

Line  code: 

Continuous  line  =  Financial  arrangements  for  sales  and/or  part  ownership  or 
prices  or  territory. 

Dotted  line  =  Interchange  or  sale  of  chemical  or  other  patent  information  on 
immediate  or  convertible  war  materials  or  processes. 

Notes  on  Chart  B — Exhibit  No.  1102. 

international  relations  in  chemicals 

Continuous  line  =  Financial  arrangements  for  sales  and/or  part  ownership  or 
prices  or  territory. 

Dotted  line  =  Interchange  or  sale  of  chemical  or  other  patent  information. 


MUNITIONS    INDTJSTBY 


2897 


O  earn   .  f^  -^ 

®  «  gH  g<  >-« 

;iH  tL<  plH  plH  pL,  pCf  |i4  pL4 


W  o 

Ml 
SB 
■dN 

aj  a 

I  '- 
I    5J 


."     1  >>M 

O  CT>   O  CO 

o  en  00^  p;-co      M 

fc-        bjD    .  c-^  p  C    . 
S  Sfs-rM  fe  a  S  r-2J,o 

022°0-^O^C-t5a> 
5f=3  H"  >>M  «  O  o  a  fe  05 


^ 


:9Hi3&M?aW^T 
-■o  tj  ^r^  m  ="  ca  ="  7^  -S 

■■—     O     ™     M  QJ     ,        (V)  < 

'^  S  os'^S  oti  oti  ° 


21     >> 


o- 


ii 


?5fe2 
2  ^  d 
?r2  ^ 

r-l  *^    O 

2  2  o 
■^o  a 

ap       o 

«      .tH 

««« 
pt<&Hft( 


03  ea 


a  s  3 


■s     •:^      P 


M       03       P       O       m       03 


a  o3ja 

ca-O 

i2 

0 

"2 

03 

(U 

(STJ 

a 

.»^ 

a 

0 

fl 

o-a 

■a 

p 

a 
3 

ea 

01 

a 

2 

a 

U) 

0 

a 

-«1 

s^ 

iS3 
1^  3 

ai 

is 

!=!  C3 

s.g 

02 

s  i 

o.g 
a  a 

§•= 

pj£ 

og 

a   a 
I    I 


a   a 


5''l 


Q     Q 


0 
Pi 

5 

0 

Ph 

C3 

c 

Cl 

= 

rt* 

C 

Gl 

T- 

T- 

0 
0 

0 

0 

0 

O) 

0 

!X1 

OJ 

Cfl 

Cl 

a 

£ 

a 

£ 

J3 

m 

ja 

03 

U 

U 

•0 

w 

3 

W 

3 

•St 

0 

<<i 

0 

0 

0 

P5 

d 


t-i        ^S        'C  4> 


&  o 
o  ■" 

o2 


•2  a    a-: 


pao    oa 


i  "o  oMO       H       l-i 


P5     tf 


„a 


2rt 
o  o 


aa 


OS 


•Sp:« 
a   .2 


cc  ■<»<      10  ?D      t^oo      a>  o 


QUO 


-H  «  M 


J?  .2  6" 
n--^i-i 

a  03 
o  ■"  o 

Ph  6f^ 
3O  3 
P      P 


fti 


03^    - 

W 
30 

P 


2898 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


»C        CO 
»0         "O 


lO  ^  ^         -^ 

— <  CO         CO         1-1 


.-<  .-I  lO  ^ 


T) 

w 

0) 

H 

13 

<1 

o 

P 

U 
1 

W 

^ 

^ 

o 

P 

fi 

>~( 

!< 

>~( 

■< 

00 

■^ 

o 

-c 

hH 

1*^ 

H 

k] 

<1 

S 

:? 

o 

tf 

I-. 

H 

'Ti 

a 

H 

< 

O 

o 

Eh 

-^ 

OT 

W 

CT^ 

H 

wj 

-^ 

H 

C/J 

Q 

W 

H 

;? 

t> 

a  a 
o  o 

PhP4 

3  d 
o  o 


-if  2?  "3      o 


pHCOh-t 


^«  g  o  o 

..SoSao 

S  a  ST  a  *jco 

ft 


■  a  ■■  ■  ■  -  °  2 


p5.| 

ti  O  O  03 
-P     •  03  O 

qSSp 


^  a    . 
«aS23£3^ 


■2-2 

a3S 

^  ^  0^ 


o   s 


rrt  a  b 

g  is  gi^t; 

"*^  .   «  o  o 

o  feoap5 

■5  S  £5  o  o 


X   X 

03   03 

o  o 


>«        IN        >0 


2  a 

pp  t 


-g  S 


"3  S-g 


TJg    tjS 


03  03 

aa 


C8  03 


0-2       "^-S 


w     Om     Hm     HMaiHaaPmcQ     Pco     Oco     tccc     M 


03  03 


S2 


a  bo 
.2x) 


a£ 


>.    ^ 


a  CD 


^^        p^         CO 


•-  a  a 

03  j:3  J3 


a  I 


la 
a« 


O     Ww 


-s  Is  a  s;s^  ^  ^ 
Sof^OMOOO 


OoQ     WPh     iJm     HH     CO     Mmmmm     W     <5m 


l.f^1 


.2  a  S 

a  ID  ©  q5  55 
3  (3  03  03  C3 


a  em 
-    03 


a   ia 


30 


S'^  •s'3 


;:•  q 


-^iSZiS 


•>  0)  a 


aO. 

03  13  < 


g  a  a 

D  3  O)^  ^ 
j'-'co    ; 

I-;      o 

a  Mo 
I  c  a  0^ 

'Ph-3,^ 
-  abn 
'3  <u-^ 

Prt 


^  a  a. 


J3  «„ 

■3)^^  a 
a^«^ 
•W,-:  o  3 


a  a)       g  ' 


£;ra 


^o2"a 


a.S3° 

M-gGQ  a 

aai  mPh 
O    2    r1 

«OOP 


3  — —  ja 

o  o  q*^-—  p  p 


§0 

ap 

23 


W     W 


a^ 


^     a .. 


^a  ao 
§£S5 


,  «> 


a  a  a  S--  3  a 
o  o  o  °  o  p  o 

fL,pH(L,P-l   53  PL,  PL, 

3  3  3  3(U  3  3 
QPOQ      PQ 


h2£ 


a  6113 

3ia 
ppc; 


03       -aj 

1  s 

^o  .0  .3 

a  a^.a^„a 
o  o  5f  p  5f  p 

3  3C!.3S.3 
PP      P      P 


b  p  p  p 
p  p  p  p 

a  o.$j.« 
p'u'n'C' 

Qj  -*-j  w  +J  - 

•^000 

3  03  OJ   O) 

pSwS 


3      S, 


2     05 


■3  a-3  a"(ii 

aii!.»ci»  3 

3    3    wP 


)  •«**  »0  O  t^  00  Ci  o 


rH         i-HC^         MOl         M  N  (N  <N  C^l  01(M  M        COM        COCO        CO  C 


OSO  r-l  C^  CO 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 


2899 


;^ 


C0  05 

r-og§£i 


3  3  >.      w 
(i<  fiH  ^  PJ  ft. 


S3" 


PhPh 
o  o 


^  o  o 

"■?.■?. 
sen 


CC       02       03 


■OTS 


'O'O      TS      'O'O'O 


03       010303 


I     I 


v   UJ    i^ 

OOO 


2*2* 
a  a 

oo 


<    „ 


>    ^ 


s    2 


»    2  •■gj 


o 

a  g 


s- 


6     B^ 

^  o 

O!   "  O 

.-.ho;' 


0-c« 

X3  3 

C  O* 


o  o 


-oo§3§^^:<03 


O  OOO  OrH  l-H  rt  -H  rt 


Ph 


|«20P4  (§J 

O  O  o  o  _ 

ig  fi  O  O  >i 

•—  tj  r^  >>  en 

ajmo303  o3 


p_ce 
o  o 


as 


p]   ^OiOlOiCsCSOsOsC 


SS"sSja434ax]x:.aj3x3j: 

tf«£tftfddddddddd 

pL,plH;^(X(pE<l_Jl-<l-4l-!l-i)-Hh-il-HI-H 


1^    W    Lh 

c3  c3  ca 


aaa 


a    a  13 


03  03 


aa 


O'5'SOO^O  O  0-5-3  O^  O 

PmMOQMQQQMmPmP 


.as! 

>Of 


Ph      OQ      O 


B?of  f  saaaaaf,  i£-g 

S  S  g  S  5  g  £  £  2i  £  £  »  9  S 


S2 


9    (i( 


s"To'3  g.fci 


O' 


:-   >y   03   1 


l-jM   5  » 

dd  ^^^ 


JO  o 

^    t-r  -- 

3  ®  .-;  * 

>  > 


-^«,o 


00>.-3 

tn  top  " 
>  >  ®  g 

C  °  °o 

3  aac.£ 
g  X  X  fi  t? 


C8-- 


ai 


>2  g  p 


?"   CD   O 


o  o  o  o 


s£§|2i 

-  6J)_M.£  -J^ 

O'o'S  o  ^ 
h-iWWcoO 
o  o  o  o  o 


°  te   O 

oEqs 
2-2  o°  a 

t.  _,  <u    .W 

Oi  C  I-  _cS 


2  ^  w  a  a 

M  3  o  oP^ 

ow^«^.g 

O  O  O  O  <^  '3 


ddddddddddddddS. 


lO   <D    QO  O)  O  ^  CS  CO  Tt^  »0  CO  t^  00  Oi  O  — « 

O     O     00--^--^^Ht-H.— IrH.— t.— tr-*^-*C^C^ 


2900 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


I  ^ 

CO  DO 

•^  iz; 

•to  w 

<»  o 

■»  r\ 

r«  5 

&3  < 

o 


c8  03  a  O 


50  CD  ^O  CD 


COCOCOCDCD        CO        CD         CD         CO 


CO  CO 


few       MM 


C3  C3 


K_,_,         „^„„„„ 


McoPOcoOoiai     cQMCQMCQm     w     mPmccm     m     m     m     ot 


O  ®  C8-I 
>-,j3  co« 


H  a  a 

a  <u  » 

tsa 

C!j    4)    » 

g  o  a 


-3  05  O  q  03  '^S       *^  03  <D  2  C'S  ' 

S  5?3  oSH'S       SMaShi 


"D  <D   Oi   O  fl 
MCCOWlJ 


g  ,„  ® 
S  S  a 


Ti 


S  03  03 


*J  +J   i2   <D  <U 

s  gs aa 

S  £  a  H  a  g 

®  £— '  03  03  2 

bjo  bjc'o  ^  '-  S 

C3  ^        CS  C3  ^ 

o  o  a  2  o  3 

*+j  '.^  03  ♦J  +j  J-i 

a  a-g  a  a  a 


J<1cQa)     <! 


<         P 


^  C3 

•^a 


04^  a<i  03  osO 
oooooooo 


OQODODDO 


mW  Oi   c/l 

a  03^  ,_  dS 
3-ti  2  »£-2 
.a  o  —  'Sti  o 

O  MH    N    OS  O  ^-^ 

n  oOPqo, 
o  *f  o  o  o 

d.sdddd^du 


ci  " 


QoQaa  5 
c^  ffi-a-'-' 

^a-|M]  « 

.§§o|s^  -2 

O)  0  «  a—  o3 


?3     -r:     '»? 


^ S;i3  K      d 


2  c3.gX2t-, 

o  o  o  o-"<^ 


hH  l-H  hH  1-1  l-t   o 

ddddd w 


O  03   _ 

"  a  o 
dod< 


^    P 

l-i^M 

d.«d 


ID  CO  t^  on  Oi 


O  »-<  C^  CO  "*  »0         CO         t^  00  03  O  ^         C^         CC        -^         lO 

cocococococo      co      co  co  co  -^ -^      -^      tt*      -^      -"^ 
<nc^mcs<N(N[      cs      (Mimmcscn      cm      (N      <n      n 


>.a 


IC^ 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 


2901 


eo^-    •    .o 

p*^  a    .  o 
■—  o  3  i-<  --^ 


coO 


fe  M      Eh. 


=3  ^  ^ 

«   «   §" 


Ufi^ 


0^   Cd   03   A  cd  ^  ^  C3  ^  I 
^  .n  J3  ,C  ^  c:  X3  J3  .£3  J 

«tf««Kdo"rtddddd-2ddddcddc 
^(i4p;H(i^i^h-^i-;tM>-<'i-iMj-;i-iMi-;)-ii-ii--ii-i>--ii-<% 


§^^ 
H  H  ® 


o  i2 


O     H!     {=1;^ 


o  o 


0)  a 

a  a 
a  a 


OP?? 

'^  a 
o  a 

+J  4) 


WW 


M  i-i 

03   03 


>  "O 'O  "O  TD 'O 'O  "O  T3 'O  13 'O  13      "O 'O 'O  "O 


e  as 


*^  -4-^  'O  "O       'O  'O  *^  "*^  "O       "C  'O'^  1 

55'o'o     'o'o55'o     "o "o "o "5 "o ■© "o "o "o "o  c "o "o "o "o     'o'o'o'o 
PHmo;     coa/Mf-ic«     cccoMccaiCOmt/jaicccococBajco     coco  coco 


03       m      COM 


OJ  QJ   CJ  H 

OOwO 


is 

a  a 


_D.  g. "  «  a 

qS  fc   w   O  Sj 

P  O  fc  fe  B 

oo£5o 


03—  P 

I  S2S 


a 

'2  — ■  -b  Q^ 


'     I   »<  & 
O'T-   C3   o 

p  i  = 


s    "^ 


S'S^p 


tie 


OccOOOfJhcoOOOOOPiiOM 


na 

a;   O) 

p  p 

OO 


S  ^  c  OJ 
.S  -3  «  P  P 

aS|2« 

a'S^gS 


£5 
|B|d 

OpH   p   O 


a  g-c 
t:  ts  s 

■u—  P 

^  f^  -p  1 

"3  r2  r 

O  p  o  < 


i:-ti    o 


P-O  g 


q  ooq 
i—j  1^  h-t  (— ' 


:  3^£ 

;  P  g  p 


^^  p  03 

o  ^  *^ 
coo 


e  K  p_ 

^  -d  ,„-  P 


o  c  c  o 


„c  S  3 
>■  o  p  s  - 

^o'Sp 
S  t:  P  — 

C   O  P  c 


el 


S       -2       S       m 

S         HH  H^        -*^ 


>  P  p-5 
o  a  ra'^ 

°  as  p  a  0^.^.2 
SO*^|"OOczi 

22C  feC2  °co 


'cU'3 


6  R  03 

2  S-^ 

pPo, 


P    w. 


±;  a  am 
HqOfeK 


a>  a 


OOOCC--'COOOOOCCOOOOCO^-^":CO' 


■§     s  ^  E  CO     i* 

■S      S  a  JB  (u      M 

|,2£o£'gg£? 

CD  bC3^^:3  S  K  d 


lo  '-:::■  r--  00       c  o  --i  ci  co      tj-  » 


C'OOO         o  —  — 'i-'T 
CO  {«  C^  CO       


-OCOiO^C^CC'fiOtCt^C 


"jcccococceoccfCicccocococccocc       eocoecco 


ro      CO      CO  re      co 

CO         CO         CO  CO         CO 


^ 

'/i 

-^ 

<; 

PCO 

St  CO 

^; 

ri 

!s 

o 

(^ 

o 

Q 

U 

o 

p 

p 

O 

< 

dd 

<: 

0 

'-' 

M 

-H 

(N 

'f 

CJ 

CC  «  CO 

2902 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


a 

•  r-) 

■+J 

o 

U 
1 

1 

O 

>-( 

■>-i 

-13 

S 

en 

C 

'Z 

<N> 

O 

O 
*-< 

« 

'/T, 

•<>> 

« 

►o 

w 

-« 

M 

^ 

O 

t^ 


c^      CM      (N  t^  ^:  t:  t^  t: 


CO       <^ 
■O  ©^ 


■:=r       ':::r       ^i-^  CM  (N  0»  CS 


-^S  o  p  c  o  o 

O  (_  t.  U.  I-  |L* 

rrt  O  O  O  O  O 

(/J  ^  C3  ^  (^  (fl 

ro  a  2 


^  ^ 


laaa 


C3    C3  Ol  C^ 
„• ^TS 

o  o  o  o 


o     *^  o     W^W^  a  a  a  c 


iSe^et. 


00  tX  GO         00 


OS 
C   O) 

«*  .§ 

a  <e  r 


tlB_0 


gogoooot; 

■^  ^  <<  ^  1^  <i  i<  f=; 


p222 

•i^,  ooo 

S  u  a>  S 
ut  oi  a;  o 


S2>.S^S 

5 1  ad- ^ 

*^  o  CI-'  a  g 
o  «  o^-  ^  g 

.—  o  ^   c     ^^ 

^  C30   is  C  "- 

sag5^>? 


hjW.2 


tH'C^ 


^>> 

a1 

ce  c3 

S  — 

a 

aa 

■a 

■OT3 

Ji 

>1  >»      >t      >.  >»  >J  ^      >> 

c3o3        c3        ce^cc=^        03 


aa    a 


'O 'O 'CJ 'O '^  "O  "^ 'O  T3       T3 'i 


aaaa    e 

'CO 'O 'U       'O  "O  XJ 


OlCOtB       CO 


»     a 


«     aa 


.-  o  ^  o 


oooacooow 
ajojaioajajfflo':' 

aacoopHcS 

gaaopHccg 

a      oooooooots 

H       '^  "^ '3 '3 'S  "^  "3 '^ '^ 

,2     coaaaaaa" 


.S-S 

■  9^ 


fti  fe  fe  fe  ft,  fi,  ft,  fn  m     bOco     O 


ac._c.n 

v^  ^  t-  H 

O  Ol  cu  g3 

a  q  a  a 

oooo 


a  a  2 

&E:.a 


0.2 


CO  o 


«ss!-,'a- 

"§  w  "§  !§  a 
»  -  a  a  a 


a^-l 


§ga 

ca  g  <i» 


Q    «■ 


03  o  O-r^  O 

as'§  a  a 
05 1;  t;  o  2 

O  O  O  O  o 

'a  [3  ]b  'a 'S 

c3  C3  ^  03  rt 
O  O   O  O   O 

03  a>  0^  oj  0^ 


Q  O    U    O    U   ^_J 


-2  tt  ?:}  fl 

uSSo 

•aH| 

■gmcoZ 

"  a  a  o:     ^'■ 
2;  .2 .2  'C     e - 

a  on  bfj  -^       •> 


a  So, 


Ofz, 

a  o 


a  g  ! 


2  '^ 


O  p  m 
•^■"        k 


§^'^§   a 

p  J?  rt  o        s 

-Sttsiz;  g>jp; 

w  bf"  o  <c  IS 

'^^p^^-"'->  P. 

CO      W       t>i      >       Q      r« 

^1 


CG^ 


O  OO '^ -H  — • -,  — I  >-        -, -H  ^ 


o-Oaa-cM 
.P-t^ «  03  a  _ 

O  ^*  CS"  CO        Tj^  lO  CO  t-T 


r-<         C*  CM  C^  (N         CM  C^l  OJ 


X 


.  INTERNATIONAL  RELATIONS  IN  CHEMICALS 


KVMIBIT  Xo.  1102 


CONTINUOUS  LINE:      FINANCIAL  ARRANGEMENTS  FOR  SALES  AND/OR  PART  OWNERSHIP  OR  PRICES  OR  TERRITORY. 
DOTTED  LINE;  INTERCHANGE  OR  SALE  OF  CHEMICAL  OR  OTHER  PATENT    INFORMATION. 

.^  ^  a  A 


CHART   "B" 


290 


f  , 


&q 


X 


INTERNATIONAL  RELATIONS  IN  WAR  MATERIALS  OR  PROCESSES 


CONTINUOUS  LINE:       FINANCIAL  ARRANGEMENTS  FOR  SALES  AND/OR  PART  OWNERSHIP  OR  PRICES  OR  TERRITORY. 

DOTTED  LINE  INTERCHANGE  OR  SALE  OF  CHEMICAL  OR  OTHER  PATENT  INFORMATION  ON  IMMEDIATE  OR  CONVERTIBLE    WAR  MATERIALS  OR  PROCESSES. 


CHART     'A" 


i   . 


MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY 


HEARINGS 

BEFORE  THE 

SPECIAL  COMMIHEE 

INVESTIGATING  THE  MUNITIONS  INDUSTEY 

UNITED  STATES  SENATE 

SEVENTY-THIRD  CONGRESS 

PURSUANT  TO 

S.  Res.  206 

A  RESOLUTION  TO  MAKE  CERTAIN  INVESTIGATIONS 

CONCERNING  THE  MANUFACTURE  AND  SALE 

OF  ARMS  AND  OTHER  WAR  MUNITIONS 


PART  13 

DECEMBER  13,  1934 


PROFITEERING,  GOVERNMENT  CONTRACTS  AND 
EXPENDITURES  DURING  WORLD  WAR 

INCLUDING  EARLY  NEGOTIATIONS  FOR 
OLD  HICKORY  CONTRACT 


Printed  for  the  use  of  the 
Special  Committee  Investigating  the  Munitions  Industry 


UNITED  STATES 
GOVERNMENT  PRINTING  OFFICE 
83876  WASHINGTON  :  1935 


MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY 

HEARINGS 

BEFORE  THE 

SPECIAL  COMMITTEE 

INVESTIGATING  THE  MUNITIONS  INDUSTEY 

UNITED  STATES  SENATE 

SEVENTY-THIKD  CONGRESS 

PURSUANT  TO 

S.  Res.  206 

A  RESOLUTION   TO   MAKE  CERTAIN  INVESTIGATIONS 

CONCERNING  THE   MANUFACTURE  AND  SALE 

OF  ARMS  AND  OTHER  WAR  MUNITIONS 


PART  13 

DECEMBER  13,   1934 


PROFITEERING,  GOVERNMENT  CONTRACTS  AND 
EXPENDITURES  DURING  WORLD  WAR 

INCLUDING  EARLY  NEGOTIATIONS  FOR 
OLD  HICKORY  CONTRACT 


Printed  for  the  use  of  the 
Special  Committee  Investigating  the  Munitions  Industry 


UNITED  STATES 

GOVERNMET^T  PRINTING  OFFICE 

WASHINGTON  :  1935 


SPECIAL    COMMITTEE    INVESTIGATING    THE    MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

GERALD  P.  NYE,   North  Dakota,  Chairman 
WALTER  F.  GEORGE,  Georgia  ARTHUR  H.  VANDENBERG,  Michigan 

BENNETT  CHAMP  CLARK,  Missouri  W.  WARREN  BARBOUR,  New  Jersey 

HOMER  T.  BONE,  Washington 
JAMES  P.  POPE,  Idaho 


Stephen  Raushbnbush,  Secretary 
Algbe  Hiss,  Legal  Assistant 


CONTENTS^ 


Testimouy   of:  Page 

Braunoii,  Lt.  E.  M.,  flrst  lieutenant,  infantrj',  in  tlie  Judge  Advocate 
General's    Department 2903 

Du  Pont,  Ir^nee,  vice  chairman  of  board  of  directors,  E.  I.  du  Pont 

de  Nemours  &  Co 2914, 

2917,  2926,   2928,   2936,   2949,  2952,   2955,   2959,   2963,  2966,  2969 
Du  Pont,  Pierre  S.,  chairman  of  board  of  directors,  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 

Nemours  &  Co 2911, 

2913,   2915,  2916,  2918,  2924,   2933,  2936,  2937,  2951,  2953,  2954, 
2955,  2960,  2961,  2964,  2968 

Eliason,  J.  Hayard,  treasurer,  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co 2912, 

2915,  2927 

(iregg,  William  S.,  attorney,  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co 2915, 

2936,  2954,  ^60 
Harris,  Lt.  Col.  C.  T.,  in  the  planning  branch,  Office  of  the  Assistant 

Secretary  of  War 2903,2905,2919,2921,2929,2931 

Muir,   R.   F.,   committee  investigator 2920 

Itndd,   John   H.,   committee  investigator 2930 

Swint,  W.  R.,  director  foreign-relations  department,  E.   I.  du  Pont 

de  Nemours  &  Co 2929 

White,   Edward,   chief  of  statistical  section  of  income  tax  unit  of 

Bureau  of  Internal  Revenue 2923,2925 

Appropriations  and  expenditures  during  World  War 2903 

Advances  made  to  the  du  Pont  Co.  on  war-time  contracts 2911 

War-time  incomes  of  certain  companies  and  individuals 2920 

Price  of  certain  raw  materials,  1913  to  1919 2927 

1916  and  1917  incomes  and  taxes  of  certain  corporations 2930 

Old  Hickory  contract : 

Necessity  for  construction  of  Old  Hickory  powder  plant 2931 

Original  negotiations  between   Ordnance   Department  and   du   Pont 

Co.  for  construction  of  Old  Hickory 2946 

Secretary  of  War  Baker's  order  to  suspend  negotiations 2959 


1  In  cases  of  exhil>ils  comprised  of  excerpts  from  the  minutes  of  certain  war-time 
civilian  boards  only  such  parts  as  were  actually  entered  into  in  the  hearings  have  been 
published  in  the  appendix.  At  a  later  date  the  committee  ordered  to  be  printed  sepa- 
rately as  commit  tee  prints,  the  minutes  of  the  following  war-time  agencies  : 

War  Industries  Board ;  Price  Fixing  Committee  of  the  War  Industries  Board; 
Council  of  National  Defense  ;  Advisory  Commission  of  the  Council  of  National 
Defense  ;  Munitions  Standards  Boai^d ;  General  Munitions  iBoard. 


INYESTIGATION  OF  MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY 


THUESDAY,   DECEMBER    13,    1934 

United  States  Senate, 

Special  Committee  to 
Investigate  the  Munitions  Industry, 

Washington,,  D.  G. 
The  hearing  was  resumed  at  10:30  a.  m.,  in  the  Finance  Com- 
mittee room,  Senate  Office  Building,  pursuant  to  the  taking  of  re- 
cess, Senator  Gerald  P.  Nye  presiding. 

Present:  Senators  Nye  (chairman),  Barbour,  Vandenberg,  Pope, 
and  Clark. 

Present  also :  Alger  Hiss,  legal  assistant  to  the  committee. 

At  this  point  the  committee  concluded  that  part  of  the  testimony 
which  is  incorporated  in  Part  XII  of  these  hearings,  "  Relationship 
of  Munitions  Makers  to  the  Government  and  International  Connec- 
tions in  the  Chemical  Industry." 

The  Chairman.  The  committee  is  unaware  this  morning  whether 
there  is  anyone  here  to  represent  the  Colts,  the  Remingtons,  or  the 
Winchesters,  but  if  there  are  representatives  here,  we  want  them 
forward  at  this  time.  Also  Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont  and  Colonel  Harris, 
please;  or.  Colonel  Harris,  if  you  have  someone  with  you  from  the 
War  Department  who  is  prepared  to  discuss  the  matter  we  have  on 
hand  this  morning,  have  him  come  forward  also,  please. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  This  session  is  profiteering? 

The  Chairman.  That  is  right. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  have  an  officer  with  me  who  will  dis- 
cuss that  phase  of  it. 

The  Chairman.  Then,  if  you  will,  have  that  officer  come  forward, 
please. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Lieutenant  Brannon. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Colonel  Harris,  this  is  during  the  war  period. 

The  Chairman.  During  the  war  period? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  During  the  period  of  the  World  War. 

TESTIMONY  OF  PIERRE  DU  PONT  (RESUMED),  LT.  COL.  C.  T. 
HARRIS,  AND  LT.  E.  M.  BRANNON 

APPROPRIATIONS   AND  EXPENDITURES  DURING   WORLD  WAR 

(The  latter  two  witnesses  were  duly  sworn  by  the  Chairman,  Mr. 
du  Pont  having  been  previously  sworn.) 

The  Chairman.  Now,  gentlemen,  be  seated,  and  if  you  will,  please 
give  the  reporter  your  full  name,  Lieutenant  Brannon,  and  your 
connection  with  the  War  Department,  your  title. 

2903 


2904  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Lieutenant  Brannon.  E.  M.  Brannon,  first  lieutenant.  Infantry, 
with  the  Judge  Advocate  General's  Department. 

Senator  Vandenbekg.  What  is  your  relationship  with  the  War  De- 
partment, Lieutenant  ? 

Lieutenant  Brannon.  I  am  on  duty  in  the  Planning  Branch  Of- 
fice of  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War. 

The  Chairman.  Colonel  Harris,  you  might  come  down  here  and 
join  the  circle,  if  you  wish,  at  this  time. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  was  just  going  to  say,  Mr.  Chair- 
man, if  you  are  going  to  discuss  the  background,  the  relations  or 
operations  concerning  the  Old  Hickory  plant,  I  am  familiar  with 
that. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  will  come  later. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  That  will  come  later,  you  say? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Yes. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  think  perhaps  you  had  better  sit  here, 
Colonel  Harris.  There  might  be  some  questions  you  might  be  able 
to  help  us  on. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  All  right;  I  will  just  bring  my  papers 
up  here. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Colonel  Harris,  what  is  your  connection 
with  the  Department? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  am  director  of  the  Planning  Branch, 
Office  of  The  Assistant  Secretary  of  War. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Lieutenant  Brannon,  you  are  familiar,  in  a  general  way, 
with  the  total  expenditures  of  the  United  States  during  the  war? 
I  have  here  a  document  which  is  in  the  form  of  a  letter,  and  two 
attachments,  which  was  introduced  into  the  record  on  Tuesday  of 
this  week,  December  11,  as  "  Exhibits  Nos.  1027,  1028,  and  1029  ", 
respectively.^  It  is  a  letter  signed  b}^  Herbert  E.  Gaston,  Assistant 
to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  Department,  to  the  chairman  of  this 
committee,  showing  appropriations  and  expenditures  by  fiscal  years 
for  the  period  1912  to  1934,  inclusive,  for  the  War  and  Navy  Depart- 
ments. There  is  only  one  copy  of  it,  and  we  will  both  have  to  use 
that. 

Lieutenant  Brannon.  I  have  no  figures  on  that. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  call  your  attention  to  the  years  1917,  1918,  and  1919. 
The  total  appropriations  listed  for  the  year  1917  for  the  War  De- 
partment are  $403,355,000,  using  round  figures  in  giving  these 
amounts;  for  1918,  $7,549,931,000;  and  for  1919,  $15,459,728,000. 
Can  you  explain  why  there  was  such  a  large  appropriation  in  1919, 
after  the  war  had  ended,  Lieutenant  Brannon? 

The  Chairman.  Before  he  answers  that  question,  that  was  offered 
as  an  exhibit  the  other  day,  was  it  not? 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  correct,  and  so  marked. 

The  Chairman.  Have  3'ou  referred  to  that  as  an  exhibit? 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  have  read  the  exhibit  numbers  that  were  given  to  it  on 
that  day. 

The  Chairman.  Very  well. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Mv.  Chairman,  may  Ave  alternate  in 
answering  questions  as  seems  best? 


1  Hearings,  Part   XII,   p.   2717. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2905 

The  Chairman.  Yes;  most  assuredly.  That  is  what  we  would 
welcome  having  you  do. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  understand.  In  attempting  to  an- 
swer that  question  I  would  say  that  the  fiscal  year  of  1919  began  on 
July  1, 1918,  and  in  that  period  we  were  still  in  the  war,  so  the  appro- 
priations for  the  fiscal  year  in  1919  were  really  for  the  latter  part 
of  the  war. 

Mr.  Hiss.  These  gross  appropriations  for  the  3  years  all  repre- 
sent, or,  at  least  primarily  are,  war  appropriations;  is  that  correct? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  The  latter  portion  of  the  1917  appro- 
priations and  all  of  the  1918  and  all  of  the  1919  appropriations  were 
for  war  purposes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  you  would  say  the  majority  of  the  1917  appro- 
priations ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  should  say  so;  yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  total  expenditures  shown  on  this  chart  for  the  years 
1917  through  1920,  inclusive,  of  the  War  Department,  are  as  follows : 

For  1917,  $462,238,000.    I  will  not  read  the  odd  dollars  in  any  case. 

For  1918,  $5,723,369,000. 

For  1919 — that  is  the  fiscal  year,  I  judge,  as  you  explained  it — 
$9,285,487,000. 

For  1920,  $1,109,599,000. 

Why  in  the  fiscal  year  of  1920,  Colonel  Harris,  was  the  expenditure 
such  a  large  one? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  In  the  fiscal  year  1920  they  were  still 
paying  obligations  incurred  during  the  war  and  in  the  settlement  of 
contracts. 

Mr.  Hiss.  So  that  all  of  these  expenditures,  or  the  majority  of 
them,  also  must  be  considered  as  war  appropriations? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Generally  speaking;  yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  How  long  did  the  influence  of  the  war  contracts — that 
is,  the  settlement  or  the  payment  of  war  contracts,  affect  the  expendi- 
tures of  the  War  Department? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  That  is  rather  difficult  to  say  defi- 
nitely.   I  imagine  even  the  fiscal  year  1921  must  have  some  of  it. 

Mr.  Hiss.  As  late  as  1921  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  You  see,  all  of  the  contracts  were  can- 
celed and  adjustments  were  made  by  bodies  examining  these  con- 
tracts, and  the  payments  undoubtedly  would  go  into  the  fiscal  year 
1921. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Colonel  Harris  or  Lieutenant  Brannon,  whichever  is 
familiar  with  this,  I  would  like  to  identify  a  chart  which  I  received 
from  the  War  Department,  headed  "  Eelative  Proportions  of  Ex- 
penditures of  the  Army  Supply  Branches  During  Nineteen  Months 
of  War  Comjiared  with  Nineteen  Months  of  1922-23,  Approximate  ", 
which  was  prepared  in  the  office  of  The  Assistant  Secretaiy  of  War, 
Procurement  Division,  planning  branch,  in  January  1923.  Can  you 
identify  that? 

Lieutenant  Brannon.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  This  shows  that  in  19  months  of  the  war  the  Quarter- 
master's Department  spent  $6,242,745,000,  whereas  in  1922-23,  a  com- 
parable period  of  19  months,  only  $99,656,000  was  spent,  a  ratio  of  1 
in  peace  time  to  62  in  war  time. 


2906  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Similarly,  the  Ordnance  Department,  which  was  the  next  largest 
in  point  of  expenditures,  spent  during  19  months  of  the  war 
$4,087,347,000,  as  compared  to  only  $10,624,000  during  19  months  of 
the  period  1922-23.  There  the  comparison  was  as  1  is  to  384.  The 
war-time  expenditure  was  384  times  the  peace-time  picked  as  a  fair 
period  by  the  War  Department. 

For  the  Air  Service  the  expenditures  were  $859,291,000  during  the 
19  months  of  the  war,  as  compared  to  $20,108,000  during  peace  time. 
That  is  as  1  is  to  42,  or  42  times. 

Of  the  total  shown  on  this  chart  from  all  of  the  supply  branches, 
namely,  $12,356,000,000,  it  will  be  noted  that  the  Quartermaster 
Corps  has  slightly  more  than  half  of  that  total  expenditure,  and 
that  the  Ordnance  Department  spent  slightly  less  than  a  third  of 
the  total,  the  air  service  considerably  less,  but  the  three  together 
constituting  by  far  the  bulk  of  the  total  money  spent  during  the  war. 

Colonel  Harris,  will  you  kindly  describe  for  the  committee  how  the 
purchasing  is  done  by  the  Army?  Is  all  purchasing  done  by  one 
purchasing  group,  or  is  it  diversified  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  The  purchasing  is  done  in  time  of 
peace  by  competitive  bidding  and  is  carried  out  by  procurement 
organizations  assigned  to  the  supply  branches.  Approximately  one- 
half  of  the  Army  appropriations,  or  slightly  more  than  one-half,  are 
normally  spent  by  the  Quartermaster  Corps,  which  has  to  do  with 
the  feeding,  housing,  and  clothing  of  the  Army. 

Mr.  Hiss.  May  I  interrupt  at  that  point.  Colonel  Harris  ?  During 
the  war  who  had  charge  of  construction  outside  of  the  theater  of 
operations? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  The  construction  outside  of  the  theater 
of  operations  was  under  the  Construction  Division,  which  was  under 
the  War  Department. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Which  of  the  procurement  branches? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  It  started  off  under  the  Quartermaster 
Corps  and  afterward  became  separate  as  the  Construction  Division. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  this  chart  where  do  you  think  that  expenditure  will 
appear? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  would  place  that  expenditure  under 
the  Quartermaster's  appropriation. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  interrupted  you.  Colonel  Harris.     Please  proceed. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Each  of  the  supply  branches  has  a 
procurement  organization  and  procures  the  quantities  and  equipments 
that  they  issue.  So  that  there  is  no  centralized  execution  or  procure- 
ment. There  is,  however,  a  centralized  control  of  procurement 
through  the  supervision  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War  under  the 
law. 

Mr.  Hiss.  If  I  have  not  offered  this  as  an  exhibit  already,  I  would 
like  to  offer  that  as  an  exhibit  with  the  appropriate  number. 

(The  chart  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  1104",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2974.)^ 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Before  you  leave  it,  Colonel,  is  there  any 
expenditure  charted  here  as  those  of  the  Quartermaster  Corps  which 
would  classify  munitions  of  war  in  the  accepted  phrase? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  The  dictionary  defines  munitions  of 
war  as  all  material  required  by  the  Army,  except  men  and  money. 
Now,  if  you  mean  arms  and  equipment 

1  Entered  into  further  in  Hearings,  Part  XV,  p.  3627 ;  Part  XVII,  p.  4169. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2907 

Senator  Vandenberg.  That  is  what  I  mean. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Arms  and  equipment;  the  Quarter- 
master Corps  supplies  the  leather  and  webbing  elements  of  that 
equipment. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Would  it  be  a  fair  conclusion  from  this 
chart  that  war  expenditures  in  a  major  proportion  therefore  are 
outside  of  the  thing  commonly  called  munitions? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  am  afraid  I  did  not  understand  your 
question,  sir. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Would  it  be  unfair  to  conclude  from  this 
chart  that  more  than  half  of  the  expenditures  in  a  war  operation  are 
for  commodities  other  than  arms  and  armaments  and  the  things 
commonly  called  "  nuniitions  "  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  think  about  half  is  a  fair  figure. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Colonel  Harris,  returning  again  to  this  chart,  what  kind 
of  equipment  is  purchased  by  the  Ordnance  Department?  This  four 
billion  expenditure  during  the  19  months  of  the  war  does  not  include 
payments  made  and  settlements  made  after  the  armistice,  or  do  you 
think  it  does  ?     I  am  referring  to  this  figure  of  four  billion. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  You  see,  I  am  not  familiar  with  how 
this  chart  was  prepared  or  what  these  figures  are,  but  I  w-ould  say 
that  they  do  include  the  settlement  of  contracts. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  the  gross  expenditures? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Yes.  Although  I  am  not  prepared  to 
say  that  there  won't  be  any  differences  between  the  figures  you 
read  before  and  these  figures,  because  I  have  not  compared  them. 

Mr.  Hiss.  There  may  be  some  changes  and  adjustments  since  1923? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Exactly. 

Mr.  Hiss.  What  type  of  equipment  constitutes  the  bulk  of  the  four 
billion  purchase,  roughly,  during  the  World  War? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Arms,  ammunition,  tanks,  arms  for 
aircraft,  armaments,  bombs.  I  think  that  answers  your  question. 
The  great  bulk  is  anununition. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Under  what  classification,  for  instance,  were 
trucks  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Commercial  trucks  are  procured  by 
the  Quartermaster's  Corps.  Special  trucks  and  armored  cars  are 
procured  by  the  Ordnance  Department. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Colonel  Harris,  did  you  bring  a  copy  of  the  photostat 
of  the  break-down  of  the  ordnance  expenditures  which  you  sent  me 
a  few  days  ago?  ^ 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  No. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  would  like  to  introduce  that  into  the  record  some- 
what later  as  further  amplification  of  that. 

The  Chairman.  Would  you  like  to  have  it  appear  at  this  juncture 
in  the  record  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Yes. 

The  Chairman.  That  may  be  done. 

Mr.  Hiss.  What  proportion.  Colonel  Harris,  would  you  say  am- 
munition constituted  of  the  four  billion,  roughly? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  As  a  rough  approximation,  I  should 
say  40  percent. 

unJ'^^  j^Si'i™®°*^   showing    Ordnance    expenditures    were    later    marked    "Exhibit    Nos. 
1105  and  llOo-A '  and  are  included  in  the  appendix  on  pp.  2975  and  2976. 


2908  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  how  much  of  that  wouki  be  powder  and  how  much 
other  ingredients,  in  value?  By  powder  I  mean  propellants  and  ex- 
plosives, and  so  on. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  To  give  you  a  correct  answer,  there 
would  have  to  be  an  analysis  made.  I  am  only  giving  the  approxi- 
mation from  my  own  knowledge  of  ordnance  equipment. 

Mr.  Hiss.  All  right. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  should  say  that  possibly  40  percent 
represents  the  cost  of  propellants  and  ammunition. 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  the  explosives,  all  of  the  powder,  and  so  on? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  should  say  in  the  neighborhood  of  40 
to  45  percent. 

Mr.  Hiss.  So  that  40  to  45  percent  of  the  40  percent  of  the  four 
billion  woidd  give  the  powder  and  explosives  cos-t,  roughly? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  That  is  an  offhand  estimate,  which  I 
am  not  responsible  for,  if  you  carry  it  into  money  later  on,  because 
it  may  not  agree  with  something  else. 

,Mr.  Hiss.  If  you  find  later  anything  that  causes  you  to  change 
that  estimate,  or  an  official  statement  on  it,  will  you  please  furnish 
that  to  the  committee,  Colonel  i  ^ 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Yes. 

Senator  Vaxdenbero.  Where  vvould  gas  expenditures  appear, 
Colonel  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Under  "  Chemical  W.  S." 

Mr.  Hiss.  Under  "  Chemical  W.  S."    It  is  a  separate  classification. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  You  say  it  is  a  separate  classification? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Yes.  Of  the  ingredients  other  than  power  and  pro- 
pellants and  the  explosives,  the  primary  raw  materials  going  into 
ordnance,  from  the  standpoint  of  value,  are  roughly  what?  They 
are  in  the  metal  field,  are  they  not? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  The  remainder  is  in  the  metal  field. 
The  shell  is  a  large  portion.  The  fuze  is  a  smaller  portion.  The 
brass  cartridge  case  is  a  small  portion.  But  all  of  the  metal  com- 
ponents make  up  the  remainder  of  the  cost  of  the  ammunition. 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  primarily  they  are  steel,  copper,  brass,  nickel,  tin? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Those  elements  go  into  it.  They  are 
not  used  in  their  native  forms,  of  course. 

Mr.  Hiss.  No.  But  they  are  the  raw  materials  that  go  into  the 
primary  part  of  the  other  60  percent  of  the  ordnance  purchases;  is 
that  correct? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  That  is  correct. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Before  you  leave  the  chart,  apparently  from 
this  chart  the  "  Chemical  W.  S.",  what  does  thai,  stand  for? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  don't  know,  sir. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Chemical  warfare,  is  it  not? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  The  Chemical  Warfare  Service. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Chemical  Warfare  Service? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Yes. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  According  to  this  chart,  that  was  the 
smallest  of  the  subdivisions  of  expenditures  in  the  World  War. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Yes. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Just  speaking  abstractly,  that  would  not  be 
true  today,  would  it? 

1  For  corrected  estimate  see  footnote  on  p.  2916. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2909 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Hakris.  Under  the  set-np  we  have  in  the  War 
Department  it  Avould  still  be  true  for  this  reason:  That  all  of  the 
^las  shells,  all  of  the  elements  of  that  round  of  ammunition,  except 
the  gas  itself,  is  procured  by  the  Ordnance  Department.  The  Chemi- 
cal Warfare  Service  procures  the  gas  alone  of  all  of  the  elements. 

Senator  Vandenverg.  Is  that  true  of  the  expenditures  charted 
here  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Hakkis.  Yes;  that  is  true. 

Senator  Yaxdexberg.  So  that  the  classification  of  the  Chemical 
W.  S.  would  scarcely  be  a  picture  of  the  actual  relative  contribution 
of  the  chemical  lield  to  the  war  equipment? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  It  is  a  minor  j)ortion. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mi-.  Chairman,  I  have  just  got  a  copy  of  the  chart  to 
M'hich  I  referred  before  and  which  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1105." 
I  will  ask  the  reporter  to  see  that  the  record  shows  the  sheet  to  which 
the  chart  is  attached  as  1105  and  the  chart  as  1105-A.  please. 

(The  sheet  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1105  ",  and  the 
chart  referred  to  was  marked  ^  Exhibit  No.  1105-A",  and  are 
included  in  the  appendix  on  pp.  2975  and  2976.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  This  gives  a  break-clown  of  ordnance  expenditures  ac- 
cording to  major  items  as  used  by  the  War  Department;  is  that 
correct  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  That  is  correct. 

Mr.  Hiss.  How  many  of  those  items,  Colonel  Harris,  were  pur- 
chased by  the  Government  during  the  war  in  the  form  in  which  they 
are  there  listed?  For  example,  jou  will  notice  item  no.  1,  mountain, 
field,  siege,  and  antiaircraft  artillery.  Did  the  Government  during 
the  war  purchase  mountain  artillery  in  complete  form,  or  did  it  as- 
semble it  itself? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  think  every  possible  arrangement 
of  procurement  was  used.  In  some  cases  we  were  able  to  get  firms 
that  were  able  to  give  the  complete  unit ;  others  were  not. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  see. 

Lieutenan.t  Colonel  Harris.  Some  made  part.  Some  made  the 
whole. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  have  here  a  memorandum  listing  certain  gross  war- 
time expenditures  compiled  from  official  sources,  which  I  would  like 
to  file  as  an  exhibit  in  the  record. 

The  Chairman.  That  is  ordered. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1106  " 
and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2976.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  Colonel  Harris,  can  you  give  some  estimate  of  the  total 
construction  costs  of  the  last  war? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  can  give  you  roughly  the  figures, 
and  you  can  correct  them  later,  if  you  wish. 

The  Chairman.  Please  do  so. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Roughly,  the  figures  Avhich  have  been 
submitted  officially  were  approximately  $500,000,000  for  cantonment 
construction  and  for  housing  troops,  about  $400,000,000  for  procure- 
ment of  facility  construction  which  was  operated  by  industry,  and 
approximately  $350,000,000  for  facility  construction'^  which  was  op- 
erated by  the  Government.  Those  figures  are  subject  to  change  when 
this  record  appendix  A  is  found. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  appendix  to  a  letter  from  the  Secretary  of  War 


2910  MUNiTioisrs  industry 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  That  is  appendix  A,  as  I  understand. 

Mr.  Hiss  (continuing).  To  the  chairman  of  the  committee  will  be 
marked  as  an  exhibit  at  this  point. 

(The  appendix  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1107  "  and 
is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2981.)^ 

Mr.  Hiss.  Colonel  Harris,  during  the  war-time  purchases  by  the 
Government,  was  it  a  custom  for  the  Government  to  advance  to 
manufacturers  and  to  construction  companies  part  of  the  cost  of 
manufacturing  or  construction  activities? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Haeris.  That  was  done  in  many  cases. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  call  your  attention  to  an  excerpt  from  a  deficiency 
appropriation  act  for  the  fiscal  year  ending  June  30,  1918,  which  was 
approved  October  6,  1917,  and  appears  at  40  Statutes  at  Large,  345, 
at  page  386.  This  provides  that  the  Secretary  of  War  and  the  Sec- 
retary of  the  Navy  are  authorized,  during  the  period  of  the  existing 
emergency,  from  appropriations  available  therefor,  to  advance  pay- 
ments to  contractors  for  supplies  for  their  respective  departments  in 
amounts  not  exceeding  30  percent  of  the  contract  price  of  such  sup- 
plies. Then  there  is  a  proviso  that  there  shall  be  adequate  security 
required  for  the  protection  of  the  Government. 

Do  you  know  how  much  money,  roughly,  was  so  advanced? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  do  not. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  call  your  attention  to  a  letter,  which  I  would  like  you 
to  identify,  of  February  6,  1920,  from  the  contract  section.  Adminis- 
tration Division ;  what  do  the  initials  O.  O.  stand  for  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Ordnance  Office. 

Mr.  Hiss  (continuing).  Ordnance  Office,  to  Messrs.  Taber  and 
Firestone,  historical  branch,  executive  section,  Ordnance  Office.  Par- 
agraph 12,  which  appears  on  the  fourth  page,  reads : 

The  War  Credits  Board,  acting  under  the  provisions  of  the  act  of  Congress 
of  October  6,  1917— 

which  I  have  just  read  into  the  record  in  part — • 

had  advanced  to  ordnance  contractors  $173,366,1.56.04.  These  advances  had 
been  recouped  upon  deliveries  or  completed  units  or  articles  in  the  amount  of 
approximately  $79,000,000,  and  it  became  necessary  for  tl)e  Claims  Board  to 
deduct  from  settlement  contracts  and  statutory  awards  sufficient  amounts  to 
fully  reimburse  the  War  Credits  Boai'd  for  the  total  of  the  advances  made  and 
the  interest  accrued. 

Do  you  knoAv  what  the  advances  were  for  other  branches  than  Ord- 
nance, and  do  you  know  whether  it  would  be  possible  to  have  those 
figures  compiled,  if  you  do  not  have  them  in  mind  at  the  moment?  ^ 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  cannot  state,  because  I  do  not  know. 
It  should  be  possible  to  obtain  that  information. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Was  it  customary  to  make  the  advances  in  connection 
with  quartermaster  work,  as  this  paragraph  states  it  was  in  connec- 
tion with  ordnance? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  have  no  knowledge  on  the  subject. 

Mr.  Hiss.  If  the  material  is  readily  available,  would  you  supply  a 
statement  on  that? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  will  endeavor  to  supply  the  com- 
mittee with  that  information.- 


1  Entered  hito  further  in  Hearings,  Part  XV,  p.  3627 

^A  memorandum  from  the  War  Department  showing  total  war-time  advances  authorized 
by  the  Secretary  of  War  was  entered  as  "  Exhi})it  No.  11.5G  "  and  appears  in  Hearings, 
Part  XIV,  appendix,  p.   3286. 


MUNiTioisrs  mbusTRY  2911 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Do  I  understand  that  all  the  figures  in  this 
memorandum  which  we  are  discussing  were  exclusiA^ely  War  Depart- 
ment figures  and  do  not  include  any  Navy  Department  expenditures  2 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  my  understanding.  Is  that  correct,  Colonel 
Harris  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Those  are  all  ordnance  expenditures. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Those  are  all  ordnance  expenditures,  but  the  charge 
which  is  here — ^ 

Senator  Vandexberg.  I  am  referring  to  this  sentence  [reading]  : 

it  is  shown  on  the  books  of  the  War  Department  that  the  total  expenditures 
and  obligations  of  the  War  Department  from  April  6,  1917,  until  September  1, 
1919,  was  $18,501,117,000— 

That  would  be  exclusively  War  Department  and  would  not  include 
Navy  Department  or  anything  outside  the  jurisdiction  of  the  War 
Department? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Yes,  sir ;  that  is  correct. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Colonel  Harris,  at  the  hearings  before  the  so-called 
"  Graham "  committee,  which  was  officially  known  as  the  "Select 
Committee  on  Expenditures  in  the  War  Department ",  in  volume  3 
of  serial  1,  page  651,  which  contains  reports  of  the  committee  after 
their  hearings,  there  is  a  statement  made: 

It  is  showii  on  the  books  of  the  War  Department  that  the  total  expenditures 
and  obligations  of  the  War  Department  from  April  6,  1917,  until  September  1, 
1919,  was  $18,501,117,00(>— 

and  some  odd.  That  is  considerably  in  excess  of  the  total  shown  on 
'this  chart,  which  was  $12,000,000,000. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris,  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Hiss.  How  do  you  explain  the  difference? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  In  the  use  of  the  word  "  obligations." 
'When  we  place  the  contract,  the  full  obligation  is  set  up.  When 
the  contract  Avas  canceled  and  adjustments  were  made,  there  was  a 
great  reduction  in  actual  expenditure. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  states  the  total  amount  that  the  Government  would 
have  been  obliged  to  pay,  had  all  contracts  been  carried  out? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Fulfilled. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Which  were  in  existence  some  time  during  the  war? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  That  means,  then,  there  was  a  shrinkage  of 
about  $4,000,000,000  between  obligations  and  expenditures? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Whatever  the  difference  is  between  the 
two  figures. 

ADVANCES  MADE  TO  THE  DU  PONT  CO.   ON   WAR-TIME  CONTRACTS 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  du  Pont,  I  have  a  document  before  me  which  we 
received  from  your  company  which  states  advance  payments  held 
by  the  du  Pont  Co.  by  months,  from  1914  to  1918,  inclusive.  Have 
you  a  copy  of  that  with  you,  Mr.  du  Pont? 

(The  document  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1108  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2982.) 

Mr,  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  beg  your  pardon? 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  the  first  page  there  is  a  tabulation  of  advance  pay- 
ments held  by  the  du  Pont  Co.,  by  months,  from  1914  to  1918, 
inclusive.    Have  you  a  copy  of  that  with  you  ? 


2912  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  May  I  see  it  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  We  miofht  look  at  it  together. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  These,  of  course,  are  not  adAance  pa^niients 
from  the  United  States  GoA'ernment. 

Mr.  Hiss.  No.  These  show  that,  beginning  with  October  1914:,  the 
following  advance  payments  were  held  by  the  du  Pont  Co. : 

October  1914,  6  million-and-some-odd  dollars;  approximately  the 
same  fi<>ure  in  November;  $6,800,000  in  December;  in  January  1915, 
$13,500^000;  February,  $17,000,000;  increasing  to  $85,000,000  i'n  Sep- 
tember 1915;  and  to  $97,000,000  in  December  1915. 

I  assume  this  is  a  cumulative  statement  as  of  any  particular  time. 
Is  that  correct,  Mr.  du  Pont  ? 

Mr,  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  understand  that  that  is  the  case,  held  at 
those  particular  dates;  yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Hiss.  1916,  January,  the  figure  was  $102,000,000.  whk-h  was 
apparently  the  high  point  of  this  particular  tabulation.  Do  you 
know  whether  any  of  the  figures  stated  for  1917  and  1918  included 
advances  from  the  United  States  Government  for  contracts  carried 
out  by  your  company?  You  were  president  of  the  company  at  this 
time,  were  you  not? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  My  recollection  is  all  the  advances  which 
we  have  from  the  United  States  Government  were  in  connection  with 
Old  Hickoiy  plane,  and  that  advance  was  made  in  the  spring  of  1918. 
in  tlie  amount  of  about  $18,000,000,  I  think. 

Mr.  Eliason.  That  is  not  included  in  these  figures. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  These  were  only  advances  from  the  European 
governments. 

Mr.  Eliason.  And  the  advance  by  the  United  States  in  connection 
with  Old  Hickory  was  made 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Am  I  right  in  saying  the  advance  made  to 
the  du  Pont  Co.  in  connection  with  the  Old  Hickory  plant  is  the  only 
one? 

Mr.  Eliason.  That  is  the  only  one  I  have  any  recollection  of. 

The  Chairman.  What  is  the  name  of  this  gentleman  ? 

Mr.  Eliason.  J.  Bayard  Eliason. 

Tlie  Chairman.  For  the  information  of  the  committee  at  the  pres- 
ent time  state  your  official  capacity  with  the  du  Pont  Co. 

Mr.  Eliason.  I  am  treasurer  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Co. 

TESTIMONY  OF  J.  BAYAED  ELIASON— Recalled 

(The  witness  was  previously  duly  sworn  by  the  chairman.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  Certain  advances  were  made  to  a  compaiw  known  as 
"  du  Pont  American  Industries  "  during  the  war  by  the  United  States 
Government ;  is  not  that  correct,  Mr,  Eliason  ? 

Mr.  Eliason.  I  believe  that  is  correct. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Have  you  any  statement  indicating  the  total  amount  of 
the  advances  that  went  to  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Co.,  the  parent 
company,  or  to  du  Pont  American  Industries,  Inc.,  or  to  any  other 
subsidiary?  ^ 


1  Under  date  of  Apr.  19.  11).'!.5,  tho  du  I'oiit  Co.  .'Jiibinltled  a  sfatiMiicnt  of  .idvances 
from  tbe  United  States  Government  in  connection  with  military  contract.-;.  This  state- 
ment appears  in  the  appendix  on  p.   .'U.jl. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2913 

Mr.  Eliason.  I  have  no  figures  on  that. 

Mr.  Hiss.  If  it  is  not  too  ditiiciilt  a  task,  will  you  supply  the  com- 
mittee with  those  figures? 

Mr.  Eliason.  I  will  be  very  glad  to. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  du  Pont 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  May  I  make  a  statement  there? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Yes. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Mr.  Eliason  reminds  me  that  the  advances 
to  the  du  Pont  American  Industries  Co.  w^ere  in  connection  with 
purchases  of  Lnters  for  the  manufacture  of  powder. 

Mr.  Hiss.  So  I  understand. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  understand  that  those  linters  were  pur- 
chased for  the  company.    They  should  be  called  ^  cotton  linters." 

Mr.  Hiss.  Do  you  know  whether  the  du  Pont  American  Industries 
acted  as  agent  for  the  Government  in  buying  linters  and  shavings 
for  other  than  their  own  contracts,  that  is,  for  otlier  than  contracts 
of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Co.  ?  ^ 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  My  recollection  is  that  they  were  bought 
by  the  Government  as  well  as  the  du  Pont-owned  plants.  Tliat  must 
be  verified.    I  cannot  sa}^ 

Mr.  Hiss.  Ma}^  we  have  a  verification  of  that,  Mr.  Eliason? 

Mr.  du  Pont,  in  a  report  of  wdiat  is  known  as  the  Government 
Claims  Division — do  you  remember  that  organization  in  your 
company  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  IIiss  (continuing).  For  July  1920,  the  report  being  dated 
September  14,  1920,  there  is  a  statement  that  some  $20,800,000  worth 
of  materials,  including  sulphur,  cotton,  nitric  acid,  and  other  mate- 
rials, had  been  turned  over  to  the  Government  at  the  conclusion  of 
the  war.     Can  you  explain  what  those  transactions  were? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  very  likely  in  connection  with  the 
Nashville  plant. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Were  any  of  these  linters,  for  example,  purchased  by 
du  Pont  American  Industries  ? 

Mr,  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  was  at  Nashville,  also. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Did  the  du  Pont  Co.,  or  any  of  its  subsidiaries,  act  in 
purchasing  nitrate  for  the  Government? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  should  not  wonder  if  nitrate  was  pur- 
chased also. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Do  you  recall  wdiat  w^as  known  as  the  nitrate  pool 
during  the  war? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  do  not  recall, 

Mr.  Hiss.  Is  there  anyone  of  your  company  present  who  is 
familiar  Math  that,  Mr.  du  Pont  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Might  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont  be  called,  Mr. 
Chairman  ? 

The  Chairman.  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont. 


1  The  ilii  Pont  Co.  notified  tlie  committee  under  date  of  Jan.  10,  1935,  that  during  the 
W'orld  War  and  until  June  1920,  du  Pont  American  Industries,  Inc..  acted  as  agent  ffl\r 
the  United  States  in  the  inspection,  purchases,  etc.,  of  cotton  linters,  and  received  a 
total  net  income  of  $232,711.12,  during  that  period.  Copies  of  the  contracts  and  forms 
invoivrd  wi're  fnrnisbeil  to  the  conuniftee  and  are  in  its  flies.  See  appendix,  p.  '151, 
for  additional  information,  submitted  to  the  committee  on  Apr.  17,  1935. 


2914  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

TESTIMONY  OF  IRENEE  DU  PONT— Resumed 

(The  witness  was  previously  duly  sworn  by  the  chairman.) 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Have  you  knowledge  of  the  purchase  of 
linters  and  nitrate  and  the  pooling  in  1918?  Is  that  the  question? 
Would  you  repeat  your  question  again,  please? 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  question  was  this,  Mr.  du  Pont :  On  September  14, 
1920,  the  Government  Claims  Division  in  a  report  referred  to  the 
turning  over  to  the  Government  of  $20,800,000  worth  of  materials, 
including  sulphur,  cotton,  and  nitric  acid.^  I  asked  Mr.  Pierre  du 
Pont  if  he  could  explain  what  such  transactions  were.  You  were 
president  at  that  time,  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  was  in  1919  or  1918? 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  think  the  actual  transaction  was  completed  sometime 
in  1919  or  1920. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont  was  president  at  that 
time. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  beg  your  pardon. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  That  is  going  back  a  good  ways  on  a  de- 
tailed matter  which  I  cannot  recall  now,  but  it  certainly  must  be  of 
record  in  the  War  Department,  which  you  could  get. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  specific  question  which  Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont  wanted 
you  to  answer  was,  In  the  purchase  of  nitrate  for  the  Government 
did  the  du  Pont  Co.  act  as  agent  for  the  Government? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  recall.  It  is  very  hazy  in  my  mind. 
I  would  not  be  at  all  surprised  if  we  did. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Colonel  Harris,  have  you  any  recollection  on  the  subject? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  do  not  believe  they  did.  I  believe 
the  nitrate  pool  handled  nitrate,  but  that  is  nothing  but  my  recol- 
lection. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Can  you  explain  the  set-up  of  the  nitrate  pool? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Only  in  a  general  way.  Certain  im- 
porters acted  as  agent  for  the  Government  in  holding  and  distribut- 
ing according  to  the  desires  of  the  Government. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Was  the  du  Pont  Co.  a  member  of  that  group? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  do  not  think  so,  but  I  am  not 
positive. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  du  Pont  Co.  during  the  war  had  nitrate  holdings  in 
Chile,  did  it  not? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  received  nitrates  from  that  source? 

Mr.  Irenp:e  du  Pont.  Yes;  but  a  very  small  proportion  of  our 
requirements. 

Mr.  Hiss.  May  I  request  you  to  investigate  this  particular  item 
of  $20,800,000,  and  if  it  refers  only  to  the  Old  Hickory  estalilish- 
ment.  there  is  no  further  interest  in  it.^ 

If  it  refers  to  du  Pont  American  Industries  or  to  nitrates  or  any 
other  item,  then  there  is  interest  in  it. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Po>;t.  I  feel  almost  certain  that  the  nitrates  pur- 
chased for  the  du  Pont  Co.'s  own  use  in  its  own  plants  were  not 


^  Undpr  date  of  Apr.  li>.  li)"5.  [he  du  I'diit  (^i.  submitted  lurther  infonimtiDii  rrg.nrdins; 
this    )|;20,800,000    item.      See    appendix,    p.    .•5152. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2915 

involved  in  the  pool  of  the  Government,  but  I  would  like  to  have 
that  verified.     It  is  purely  a  recollection  of  a  long  time  ago. 

Mr.  Eliason,  That  is  material  turned  over  to  the  United  States 
Government  during  the  war? 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  may  have  my  notes  and  return  the  slip,  please. 
Would  it  be  possible  to  have  that  by  tomorrow  or  early  next  week? 

Mr.  Eliason.  We  can  have  it  by  early  next  week. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  du  Pont,  is  it  not  true  that  as  a  result  of  the  large 
orders  which  your  company  had  during  the  war — and  I  here  offer  as 
a  further  exhibit  another  page  of  this  particular  statement,  which 
represents  the  military  contracts,  gross  sales  of  camion  powder,  rifle 
powder,  TNT,  black  powder,  caps  and  fuses,  and  miscellaneous  of 
the  du  Pont  Co.  from  1914  to  1918.  The  gross  value  of  all  those 
items  was  $1,245,563,000  and  some  odd;  of  which  cannon  powder  in 
value  represented  $796,000,000,  smokeless  rifle  powder  $124,000,000, 
TNT  $112,000,000,  and  other  items  are  black  powder  $3,928,000— 
are  you  checking  it? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  know  the  chart,  and  I  am  sure  it  is  correct. 

Mr.  Hiss  Caps  and  fuses  $8,351,000,  and  miscellaneous  a  total  of 
$200,000,000,  which  is  the  second  largest  single  item. 

What  would  go  into  making  up  miscellaneous  items?  Do  you 
know,  Mr.  du  Pont  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  I  can  find  it.  Was  not  that  shown 
in  the  testimony  at  the  first  hearing  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  do  not  believe  so  on  this  particular  item. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  is  in  one  of  our  annual  reports, 

(The  list  of  military  contracts  referred  to  in  the  document  above 
mentioned  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1109  "  and  included  in  the  ap- 
pendix on  p.  2982.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Gregg  can  make  a  statemerit  as  to  the  purchase  of 
linters,  Mr.  du  Pont.  Mr.  Gregg,  of  the  du  Pont  Co.,  had  not  been 
sworn. 

TESTIMONY  OF  WILLIAM  S.  GREGG 

(The  witness  was  duly  sworn  by  the  chairman.) 

The  Chairman.  Give  your  full  name. 

Mr.  Gregg.  William  S.  Gregg,  Wilmington,  Del. 

The  Chairman.  And  your  capacity  or  position  with  the  corpora- 
tion is  what? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Attorney. 

The  Chairman.  Attorney? 

Mr.  Gregg.  That  is  correct. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Gregg  has  some  information  in  respect  to  the  rela- 
tions of  the  du  Pont  Co.  with  the  Government  in  the  purchase  of 
linters. 

Mr.  Gregg,  will  you  please  state  what  you  care  to? 

Mr.  Gregg.  For  the  information  of  the  committee,  my  understand- 
ing is  that  the  du  Pont  Cos.  were  appointed  agent  for  the  United 
States  Government  to  purchase  all  linters,  the  object  being  to  have 
only  one  purchaser  in  the  market  for  linters.  The  Government  had 
practically  fixed  the  price  which  should  be  paid  to  the  producers  of 
linters.  It  is  further  my  understanding  that  the  Government,  after 
the  purchase  of  those  linters  by  the  du  Pont  American  Industries, 

83876 — C5— PT  13 2 


2916  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

allocated  the  linters  not  only  to  the  concerns  using  linters  in  this 
country  but  also  to  the  Allies,  as  any  quantity  of  linters  were 
shipped  to  the  other  side. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Do  you  have  any  information,  Mr.  Gregg,  as  to  the  rela- 
tions in  the  purchase  of  nitrate? 

Mr.  Gregg.  No;  I  do  hot.  Mr.  Hiss. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Have  you  a  copy  of  the  annual  report  there? 

Mr.  PiERKK  Du  Po>:t.  I  Jiave  it  for  1918.  Mr.  Chairman,  this 
annual  report  of  the  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Co.  for  1918  gives 
some  of  the  detail  of  this  item  of  $206,000,000  of  materials — caps, 
fuzes,  ignition  pellets,  and  the  loading  of  explosives  for  use  in  the 
field.  Those  are  apparently  the  major  items  of  that  miscellaneous 
caption. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Have  3^011  the  1916  report  with  you? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Does  that  answer  the  question? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Yes,  sir;  I  think  it  does. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont,  as  a  result  of  the  large  volume  of  business 
which  your  company 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Mr.  Chairman,  might  I  call  attention  to  a 
statement  Avhi'^'li  was  made  a  few  minutes  ago  in  regard  to  the  pro- 
portion of  propellants  used  in  the  total  purchases?  It  is  civen  at 
40  percent,  I  think,  of  $4,000,000,000.  That  would  be  $2,400,000,000, 
or.  rather,  $1,600,000,000. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Not  propellants;  explosives  and  propellants,  all 
powders. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Our  total  sales  to  the  Allies  from  the  du  Pont 
Co.  on  evervthing  were  $1,245,000,000.  I  cannot  see  how  that  40 
percent  or  $1,600,000,000  could  be  correct.  I  do  not  want  to  doubt 
your  figures.  Colonel. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  My  statement  was  subject  to  cor- 
rection. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  The  greater  part  of  our  sales  was  made  to 
the  Allied  Governments  and  not  to  the  United  States.  I  do  not 
know  wdiether  it  is  a  material  item,  but  I  think  there  must  be  con- 
fusion on  that  thought. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Of  course,  the  statement  was  40  per- 
cent of  the  total  appropriation  for  ammunition,  and  our  statement 
was  that  40  percent  of  that  was  pow^ler  and  all  explosives. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  beg  your  pardon. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  But  that  is  subject  to  correction,  after 
I  view  the  record.^ 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  beg  your  pardon. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  du  Pont,  to  return  to  the  specific  question.  Is  it  not 
true  tb.at  during  the  period  from  the  beginning  of  the  World  AVar 
until  the  e;;(l  of  the  AVorld  War  your  com})any  built  some  $60,000,000 
worth  of  ])owder  plants  not  in  existence  at  the  beginning;  that  is, 
you  extended  your  capacity  by  approximately 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  the  total  is  $80,000,000  in  the  record. 

Mr.  Hiss.  $80,000,000.  During  the  same  period,  or  toward  the 
end  of  that  period,  your  company,  in  addition,  went  into  the  dye 


1  Under  date  of  Apr.  4,  ]0:i5,  Cokiiii''  Ihirris  corrected  his  starciiK'iit  as  fnllows  : 
"About  CO  percent  of  total  ordnance  expen  it  nres  were  for  ammunition  and  of  this  60 
percent  ai)out  one-fonrtii  was  for  i)owder  and  explosives,  including  powder  plants,  ex- 
plosive  plants,    and    leading   plants." 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2917 

field,  with  an  investment  of  some  additional  millions,  and  also 
developed  one  or  two  other  industries.  You  went  into  paints  and 
other  things,  too? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Hiss.  During  that  time,  1914  to  1920,  do  you  know  of  any- 
financing,  public  financing,  carried  on  by  the  du  Pont  Cos.  to  aid 
their  construction  of  these  plants^ 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  There  was  no  public  financing  or  offering  of 
securities.     That  is  correct,  is  it  not? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Po^"T.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  PIiss.  I  offer  for  the  record  a  statement  furnished  by  the  du 
Pont  Co.  showing  the  issues  of  capital  which  were  underwritten  by 
outside  banking  houses  from  October  1,  1915,  which  was  the  date  of 
incorporation  of  tlie  present  company,  to  November  2i2,  1924,  and  I 
would  say  that  to  that  there  is  a  footnote  [reading]  : 

Furthermore,  there  were  no  such  issues  by  E.  I.  du  i'out  de  Nemours  Powder 
Co.  during  1914  iind  up  to  Oct(jher  1,  1915. 

(The  statement  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1110  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2984.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  tlie  predecessor  of  the  present  company? 

Mr.  Eliason.  Tliat  is  riglit. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  shows,  as  I  say,  no  outside  aid  from  banks  or 
banking  houses  in  the  construction  which  you  have  just  described. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Of  course,  the  very  large  financing  of  that 
construction  was  furnished  by  the  advances  of  the  Allies,  which  you 
read,  and  which  was  apparently  confused  with  the  advances  from  the 
United  States  Government,  which  it  was  not. 

Tliat  long  list  of  advances,  running  up  to  $97,000,000,  was  ad- 
vanced— r:ioney  advanced  to  us  1)}^  the  Allies — us?d  for  tlie  purpose 
of  expansion. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  attempted  to  make  that  clear  and  I  am  sorry  if  I  did 
not,  and  I  asked  for  a  statement  as  to  how  much  had  been  advanced 
by  the  United  States  Government,  which  your  company  will  furnish.^ 

Senator  Vandenberg.  We  loaned  them  the  money  which  they  ad- 
vanced to  you,  did  we  not? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  No,  sir.  That  was  advanced  before  the 
United  States  got  in  the  habit  of  loaning. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Furthermore,  a  large  investment  was  made  in  General 
Motors  Co.  during  this  jDeriod,  too.    Is  not  that  correct? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  May  I  look  at  this  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Certainly  [handing  paper  to  witness]. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  am  not  certain  of  tliis  one  item. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  What  is  the  origin  of  this  statement?  Was 
that  taken  from  our  files  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  No;  your  company  prepared  it  at  my  request. 

Mr.  Eliason.  We  furnished  that  statement. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  It  is  certainly  correct,  then. 

Mr.  Hiss.  This  shows  that  the  first  outside  assistance  was  in  May 
of  1921,  first  from  the  year  1914.  in  which  there  was  a  public  offering 
of  bonds  of  a  par  value  of  $35,000,000,  underwritten  by  J.  P.  Morgan 


1  See  footnote  on  p.  2912,  for  statement  of  advances. 


2918  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

&  Co.,  with  a  fee  to  the  underwriter  of  $1,Y50,000 ;  in  December  1925 
the  next  issue  underwritten  was  by  J.  P.  Morgan  &  Co.,  with  a  par 
value  of  $10,000,000  being  debenture  stock  callable  at  125.  This,  I 
judge,  was  largely  taken  over  by  stockholders  of  the  du  Pont  Co.? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  shows  that  40  percent  was  taken  over 
by  stockholders. 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  59  percent  was  taken  over  by  the  underwriter? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Right. 

Mr.  Hiss.  A  total  of  59,338  shares  by  the  underwriter. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Right. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Then  in  April  1928  there  was  a  further  issue  of  de- 
benture stock,  par  value  $10,157,000,  which  was  offerecl  to  debenture 
holders  pro  rata.  In  that  case  the  underwriters  exercised  rights  on 
only  5.99  percent,  a  total  of  6,080  shares. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont,  during  the  war  did  your  company  not  decide 
to  carry  out  its  own  insurance  business;  in  other  words,  to  cease 
placing  ordinary  insurance  through  insurance  companieis,  or  to 
undertake  to  finance  your  own  insurance  risks? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  We  had  always  insured  our  own  explosion 
risks.  We  set  up  a  reserve  for  explosions.  I  think  you  must  refer 
to  marine  insurance  or  something  else.  We  always  placed  boiler 
insurance  outside. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  call  your  attention  to  a  resolution  of  the  executive 
committee,  June  11,^1917,  in  which  it  was  decided  that  the  company 
should  carry  its  own  insurance  except  on  boilers  and  marine  risks,  on 
automobiles,  and  where  excessively  low  rates  were  offered  by  insur- 
ance companies.    AVas  that  policy  carried  out? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  presume  so.  I  do  not  recall  the  resolution, 
although  I  think  I  was  a  party  to  drawing  the  resolution. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  we  have  still  quite  a  large  blanket 
insurance  over  certain  amounts,  calamity  insurance. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Can  you  give  us  some  estimate  of  how  much  the  company 
insures  its  own  risks  and  how  much  is  placed  with  outside  firms  ?  ^ 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  We  can  furnish  it. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Will  you  please  furnish  it? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  But  I  have  not  the  information. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Colonel  Harris,  have  you  still  a  copy  of  that  letter  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Hiss.  If  you  will  turn  to  paragraph  22,  you  will  find  the 
following  statement : 

No  statistics  are  available  as  to  tlie  imiiibei-  of  fluaucial  wrecks  in  the  wake 
of  ordnance-manufacturing  activities.  The  Claims  Board  has  frequently  had 
evidence  of  financial  stress  and  strain.  The  number  of  receiverships  and 
bankruptcies  among  prime  contractors  coming  to  the  attention  of  the  Ordnance 
Claims  Board  may,  it  is  believed,  be  counted  upon  the  fingers  of  two  hands. 

As  a  result  of  the  war,  I  judge  from  this  statement,  there  were  rela- 
tively few  failures  on  the  part  of  prime  contractors  who  contracted 
with  the  Ordnance  Department.    Is  that  correct.  Colonel? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  have  no  knowledge.  That  is  an 
official  report,  and  I  presume  it  to  be  true. 


1  Under  date  of  Apr.  19,  1935,  the  du  Ton!  Co.  informed  the  cimiinitlee  that  "as  of 
Dec.  ."il.  1034,  B.  1.  du  Pont  de  Nemmirs  «:  Cn.  iitid  wholly  o\\ned  subsidiaries  insured 
their  own  risks  to  the  extent  of  approximately  82  percent  and  placed  with  outside  in- 
surance firms  ciivcrag*-  on  approximately   is   percent." 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2919 

Mr.  Hiss.  Colonel  Harris,  is  it  not  true  that  during  the  war,  as  a 
result  of  the  enormous  expenditures  by  the  Government  which  have 
already  been  referred  to  and  to  the  advancing  of  funds  by  the  Gov- 
ernment, a  considerable  amount  of  the  risk  of  doing  contracting 
business  for  the  Government  was  assumed  by  the  Government? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  In  many  cases  that  is  true,  and  in 
many  cases  it  is  not  true. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Will  you  describe  for  the  committee  the  use  of  cost-plus 
•contracts  during  the  World  War? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  In  the  case  of  those  noncommercial 
items  wath  which  industry  was  not  familiar  and  could  not  form  a 
reasonable  estimate  of  cost,  it  was  found  necessary  in  many  cases, 
and  also  in  the  case  of  cantonments,  where  speed  was  so  urgent  that 
time  for  negotiation  could  not  be  spared,  it  was  found  necessary  to 
enter  into  what  is  known  as  a  "  cost-plus  contract  " ;  that  is,  the 
Government  defraying  all  costs  and  paying  the  contractor — reim- 
bursing the  contractor  for  all  costs,  plus  a  percentage  fee  on  the 
total  expenditures. 

In  many  cases,  however,  there  was  a  top  limit  to  the  amount  that 
the  contractor  could  earn  through  this  percentage  of  profit. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  What  was  that  percentage  fee  ordinarily  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Ten  percent,  generally  speaking,  in 
the  beginning,  although  in  later  contracts  there  were  variations  from 
that. 

Senator  Clark.  Variations  up? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Generally  down,  Senator. 

Mr.  Hiss.  What  is  the  present  attitude  of  the  War  Department,  in 
retrospect,  with  all  the  value  of  hindsight,  on  cost-plus  contracts? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  We,  together  with  everybody  else,  are 
opposed  to  cost-plus  contracts.  AVe  still,  however,  do  not  know  quite 
how  we  are  going  to  make  contracts  in  time  of  war  for  material 
unknown  to  the  contractor,  with  which  he  is  not  familiar.  We  do 
not  know  just  how  we  are  going  to  make  a  contract  to  cover  that 
contingency  right  now. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Referring  again  to  the  chart  which  was  introduced 
earlier  and  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1104  ",  would  you  not  say  that  the 
major  purchases  of  the  Ordnance  Department,  represented  on  this 
chart  at  4  billion  dollars,  are  of  items  with  which  the  ordinary  manu- 
facturer in  the  United  States  is  not  familiar  in  peace  time? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Generally  speaking,  the  ordnance 
equipment  is  such  that  the  ordinary  manufacturer  is  not  familiar 
with  it. 

Mr,  Hiss.  Then  cost-plus  contracts  were  to  a  considerable  extent 
used  in  the  ordnance  field? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  To  a  considerable  extent. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Is  that  also  true  of  the  construction  field,  in  building 
cantonments  and  things  of  that  sort? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  think  that  is  generally  true  in  the 
construction  field. 

Mr.  Hiss.  As  a  result  of  cost-plus  contracts,  in  the  opinion  of  the 
War  Department  were  excessive  profits  earned  in  some  cases? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  In  some  cases  they  were.  In  other 
cases  the  cost-plus  contracts  resulted  in  a  reduction  of  price.     We 


2920  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

have  one  example,  in  the  manufacture  of  the  shoulder  rifle.  The 
Remington  Arms  and  one  other  arms  company  would  not  take  a 
fixed-price  contract  on  account  of  changing  the  rifles  from  the  Brit- 
ish chamber  to  the  American  chamber,  and  insisted  on  a  cost-j)lus 
contract;  and  under  that  contract  reduced  the  price  from  $42,  which 
the  Allies  had  been  paying,  to  $26,  which  it  amounted  to  under  the 
cost-plus  contract.  Our  records  showed  that  the  company'  would 
have  preferred  to  have  a  fixed-price  contract  and  applied  for  it,  but 
it  was  not  given  to  them, 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Chairman,  may  I  call  Mr.  Muir,  one  of  the  account- 
ants working  for  the  committee  ? 

The  Chairman.  Has  Mr.  Muir  been  sworn? 

Mr.  Hiss.  No  ;  he  has  not. 

TESTIMONY  OF  R.  F.  MUIR 

WAR-TIME  INCOMES  OF  CERTAIN   COMPANIES  AND  INDIVIDUALS 

(The  witness  was  duly  sworn  by  the  chairman.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Muir,  will  you  please  state  your  experience  in  the 
field  of  accounting? 

Mv.  Muir.  Since  1932  to  date  I  have  been  accountant  investigator 
for  the  Banking  and  Currency  Committee,  the  Ocean  and  Air  Mail 
Investigation,  and  presently  with  the  Munitions  Committee.  Prior 
to  that  I  have  been  at  the  head  of  the  accounting  department  of  a 
large  maimfacturmg  concern  in  New  York  City. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  show  you  a  report  of  net  taxable  income,  invested  cap- 
ital and  the  percentage  of  income  to  the  invested  capital.  Was^ 
this  prepared  by  you,  Mr.  Muir? 

Mr.  Muir.  Yes ;  it  was. 

Mr.  Hiss.  From  official  records  in  the  Bureau  of  Internal  Revenue  ? 

Mr.  Muir.  Yes;  that  is  right. 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  have  checked  this  report  carefully  against  the 
records  of  the  Bureau? 

Mr.  MuiR.  Of  the  Bureau;  yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  all,  thank  you. 

This  report,  which  I  offer  as  "  Exhibit  No.  1111  *',  shows  certain 
profits  made  in  the  metals  industry. 

(The  report  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1111  '',  and  is 
included  in  the  appencUx  on  p.  2985.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  American  Brass  Co.  Were  they  a  contractor  of 
the  Government,  Colonel  Harris? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  They  undoubtedly  furnished  brass. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  1916  their  net  taxable  income  after  all  deductions 
was  $20,000,000  upon  an  invested  capital  of  $39,000,000,  or  a  profit 
of  51  percent.  That  was  before  the  United  States  entered  the  war, 
so  that  was  presumably  primarily  for  contracts  from  foreign  orders. 
In  1917  their  percent  of  net  taxable  income  on  the  invested  capital 
was  23  percent. 

The  Bethlehem  Steel  Corporation.  Were  they  a  contractor  of  the 
Ordnance  Department? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  They  were. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  1917  they  had  a  net  taxable  income  of  $61,810,000, 
the  percent  of  net  income  to  the  invested  capital  being  43  percent. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2921 

Jones  &  Lauglilin  Steel  Co.  Were  they  a  contractor  of  the 
Ordnance  Department  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  could  not  answer  definitely. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  1917  this  company  had  a  profit  of  $48,869,000  on  an 
invested  capital  of  $10;j,000,000;  in  other  words,  47  percent  profit. 

The  Atlas  Powder  Co.  Were  the}'  a  contractor  of  the  Ordnance 
Department  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  1917  they  made  27  percent  on  the  invested  capital. 

Colt's  Patent  Firearms  Co.     Were  they  a  contractor? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  They  were. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  1916,  before  this  country  entered  the  war,  their  profit 
was  60  percent  of  invested  capital.  In  1917  it  was  64  percent  and 
in  1918  51  percent. 

The  Midvale  Steel  &  Ordnance  Co.  Were  they  a  contractor  of  the 
Ordnance  Department  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  They  certainly  were  of  the  Navy,  but 
I  am  not  sure  about  the  Ordnance. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  1917  this  company  had  a  profit  on  its  invested  cap- 
ital of  43  percent. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  How  many  of  these  contractors  would  be 
on  a  cost-plus  basis? 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  majority  of  the  ordnance  contractors,  according  to 
the  previous  testimony  of  Colonel  Harris,  were  on  a  cost-plus  basis. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  am  sure  that  many  of  the  con- 
tractors listed  here  were  not  on  a  cost-plus  contract.  For  example,, 
brass  purchases  would  certainly  be  purchased  on  a  straight  contract. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Tlie  Savage  Arms  Corporation.  Were  they  contractors 
of  the  Ordnance  Department? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  The}^  were. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  1917  it  had  65  percent  return  on  its  invested  capital; 
$6,000,000  profits  on  $10,000,000  investment.  In  1918,  43  percent 
profit. 

The  Western  Cartridge  Co.  Were  they  also  a  contractor  of  the 
Ordnance  Department? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Yes. 

]Mr.  Hiss.  In  1916,  before  this  country  entered  the  war,  their  profit 
was  49  percent ;  in  1917  and  1918,  35  percent  and  39  percent,  respec- 
tivel}'. 

The  Winchester  Repeating  Arms  Co.     Were  they  a  contractor  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  They  were. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  1918  they  show  a  profit  of  22  percent. 

The  following  three  items  do  not  refer  to  the  Ordnance  Depart- 
ment but  refer  to  the  Navy  Department.  They  were  companies 
engaged  in  the  shipbuilding  industry. 

The  Bethlehem  Shipbuilding  Corporation  in  1918  showed  a  profit 
of  40  percent  on  its  invested  capital,  and  in  1919,  63  percent. 

The  New  York  Shipbuilding  Co.  in  1918  showed  a  profit  of  41 
percent,  in  1919  a  profit  of  49  percent,  and  in  1920  a  profit  of  46 
percent. 

The  Newport  News  Shipbuilding  &  Dry  Dock  Co.  in  1917  showed 
a  profit  of  86  percent  on  its  invested  capital ;  $3,298,000  net  income, 
with  an  invested  capital  of  $3,800,000.  In  1918  the  profit  was  72  per- 
cent ;  in  1919,  70  percent ;  and  in  1920,  75  percent. 


2922  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

The  Bethlehem  Loadinir  Co. — was  that  a  subsidiary  of  the  Beth- 
lehem  Steel  Co.,  Colonel  Harris? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  It  was. 

Mr.  Hiss.  It  showed  a  profit  in  1918 — were  they  a  contractor  of  the 
Ordnance  Department? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  They  were  a  contractor  of  the  Ord- 
nance Department. 

Mr.  Hissi.  It  showed  a  profit  on  invested  capital  of  3G2  percent, 
the  net  income  being  $151,000.  and  the  invested  capital  being  $41,000. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Mr.  Hiss,  do  these  statements  show  the  in- 
come tax  for  these  same  years  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  has  been  stricken  out,  because  the  accountant  could 
not  be  sure  that  perhaps  some  additional  munitions  tax  was  not  paid. 
The  records  of  the  Bureau  of  Internal  Revenue  were  not  absolutely 
clear  on  that  point,  so  we  preferred  not  to  put  anything  in  that  there 
might  be  a  dispute  about. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  In  other  words,  we  have  no  information  as 
to  how  much  of  this 

Mr.  Hiss.  Was  paid  back  to  the  Government  in  the  form  of  taxes. 
That  is  correct. 

Senator  Barbour.  This  might  be  subject  to  an  excess-profits  tax? 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  correct.  We  do  not  have  information  at  this 
time  as  to  how  much  was  paid  back  in  any  of  these  years. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  You  know  that  the  law  says  that  all  above 
a  certain  nominal  percentage — I  think  80  percent — was  taken  back 
by  the  Government. 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  are  referring  to  the  munitions  tax,  or  to  the  ordi- 
nary excess-profits  tax? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  am  talking  of  the  excess-profits  tax.  Is 
that  not  a  fact? 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  am  afraid  I  do  not  know. 

The  Chairman.  Colonel  Harris,  you  wish  to  speak  on  this? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Yes,  I  would  like  to  make  a  state- 
ment. With  reference  to  the  matter  of  the  contracts  with  the  com- 
panies that  did  business  for  the  War  Department,  I  feel  sure  that 
they  were  fixed-price  contracts.  With  your  permission,  I  should 
like  to  put  into  the  record  for  each  one  of  those  companies  whether 
it  was  a  cost-plus  or  a  fixed-price  contract.^ 

One  other  point  with  reference  to  some  of  those  companies,  they 
were  acting  only  as  agents  of  the  War  Department.  In  the  case  of 
the  loading  plant  of  the  Bethlehem  Co.,  for  example,  they  were 
simply  acting  as  agents  of  the  Ordnance  Department,  and  the  War 
Department  was  putting  up  all  the  money  for  the  entire  expenditure. 
I  do  not  know  what  effect  that  would  have  on  their  capitalization. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Muir,  may  I  ask  you  one  more  question,  please? 

Do  the  figures  stated  in  the  report  that  has  just  been  put  in  evidence 
represent  the  final  figures  of  today  in  the  Bureau  of  Internal 
Revenue  ? 

Mr.  Muir.  The  net  taxable  income  was  the  final  figure  determined 
by  the  Bureau  upon  which  a  tax  was  based. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Subject  to  no  further  adjustments  at  the  present  time? 

Mr.  Muir.  Subject  to  no  further  adjustments. 


1  During  hearings  of  Dec.  19,  19.'!4,  Colonel  Harris  introtliiced  additional  data  on  cost- 
plus  and  fixed-price  contracts.     Hearings,  Part  XVI,  p.  39o6. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2923 

Mr.  Hiss.  Is  the  same  thing  true  of  the  figure  of  invested  capital? 

Mr.  MuiR.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Thank  you.     That  is  all. 

Is  Mr.  Edward  White,  of  the  Bureau  of  Internal  Revenue,  here? 

TESTIMONY  OF  EDWARD  WHITE 

(The  witness  was  duly  sworn  by  the  chairman.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  White,  I  show  you  a  report  in  six  pages  headed 
"  Statistical  Section,  Income  Tax  Unit.  Individuals  reporting  net 
income  of  $1,000,000  or  over  for  any  one  or  more  of  the  years  1917 
to  1920."^ 

Will  you  please  identify  that  for  the  committee?  Was  that  pre- 
pared under  the  supervision  of  your  department  ? 

Mr.  White.  It  was. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Has  Mr.  White's  official  position  with  the  Bureau  of 
Internal  Revenue  been  stated? 

The  Chairman.  It  has  not.     It  had  better  be  stated. 

Mr.  White.  I  am  chief  of  the  statistical  section  of  the  Income  Tax 
Unit. 

The  Chairman.  How  long  have  you  been  such? 

Mr.  White.  I  organized  this  in  1917. 

The  Chairman.  You  have  been  its  chief  since  its  organization  in 
1917? 

Mr.  White.  Continuously ;  yes,  sir. 

The  Chairman.  Thank  you,  Mr.  White. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  would  like  to  offer  this  as  the  next  exhibit. 

(The  report  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1112  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2987.)- 

Mr.  Hiss.  This  shows  a  total  of  181  persons  who  report  a  net 
income  of  a  million  dollars  or  over.  Mr.  White,  does  this  mean  net 
taxable  income? 

Mr.  White.  That  is  the  net  income ;  yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Subject  to  taxation? 

Mr.  White.  Subject  to  tax;  that  is  right. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is,  after  deductions? 

Mr.  White.  After  all  deductions. 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  all  losses,  and  so  forth? 

Mr.  White.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  years  covered  by  this  report  are  1915,  1916,  1917, 
1918,  1919,  and  1920.  Of  these  181,  47  reported  taxable  income  of  a 
million  dollars  or  over  for  the  first  time  in  1917  and  1918,  the  war- 
time period. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Did  the  table  show  what  taxes  they  paid  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Xo  statement  as  to  taxes  or  the  amount  of  income  other 
than  that  it  was  over  a  million  dollars. 


^  In  connection  with  "Exhibit  No.  1112"'  the  committee  received  two  denials  from 
individuals  mentioned  as  having:  a  net  income  of  $1,000,000  or  over  for  any  one  or  more 
of  the  years  1917  to  19'20.  One  was  from  Ogden  L.  Mills,  which  was  entered  into 
the  record  as  "  Exhibit  No.  1203  ",  Hearings,  Part  XV,  appendix,  p.  :!736.  Mr.  Mills' 
name  is  not  included  ir  the  list  although  that  of  Ogden  Mills,  his  father,  is  included.  The 
other  denial  is  from  Julius  Forstmaiiii  of  the  Forstmann  Woolen  Co.,  and  is  included  in 
the  appendix  to  this  Part  on  p.  3164. 

-  Under  date  of  Jan.  28,  1935,  the  Treasury  Department  supplemented  this  report  with 
a  list  of  individuals  reporting  net  incomes  of  $1,000,000  or  over,  for  one  or  both  of  the 
years  1915  and  1916,  who  did  not  report  $1,000,000  or  over  for  any  of  the  years  1917-20. 
This  list,  and  the  accompanying  letter  from  the  Treasury  Department,  are  included  in  the 
appendix  on  p.  3152. 


2924  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont,  do  you  know  whether  in  sellino;  cannon 
powder  and  rifle  powder  abroad,  title  was  taken  by  the  purchasers  in 
this  country  or  whether  it  was  part  of  your  contract  to  deliver? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Delivered  in  this  country  by  us. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Who  paid  the  freight  to  Europe  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  The  purchaser. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Can  you  explain,  referring  to  that  document  which  we 
have  already  discussed,  how  in  the  year  1915  and  in  1916,  under  the 
heading  "  Cannon  powder  " — let  us  turn  to  1915.  If  you  will  look 
down  that  list,  under  treasurer's  contract  no.  20,  you  will  see  an  order 
for  a  million  pounds  of  cannon  powder  to  the  Bethlehem  Steel 
Corporation.    Is  that  correct? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  is  right. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  price  of  that  is  80  cents. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  All  the  other  prices  of  cannon  powder  during  that  year 
are  approximately  90  cents  or  more,  many  of  them  at  a  dollar.  For 
example,  the  sale  to  England  in  tlie  same  month,  February  17,  of  a 
larger  amount  at  a  dollar  a  pound ;  again  on  February  13,  treasurer's 
contract  no.  24,  there  was  a  further  sale  to  Bethlehem  Steel  at  80 
cents.  That  is  true  again  of  item  39.  In  fact,  all  the  Bethlehem 
Steel  sales  in  1915  and  1916  seemed  to  be  at  80  cents.  Do  you  know 
just  why  they  were  able  to  purchase  from  3'our  company  at  that 
price  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes.  Bethlehem  Steel  were  old  customers 
of  ours.  We  felt  they  were  entitled  to  a  price  on  powder  furnished 
by  our  original  plant,  on  which  there  was  a  heavy  amortization. 
The  charge  of  a  dollar  was  made  by  arrangement  with  our  European 
customers  to  include  the  cost  of  amortizing  the  plants  in  the  period 
of  a  year  or  in  the  period  of  the  first  contract,  l^y  agreement  that  we 
could  not  afford  to  build  a  plant  for  them  unless  they  were  going 
to  use  it  and  amortize  it  at  the  same  time.  That  accounts  for  the 
differences. 

Our  price  to  the  United  States  Government  at  that  time,  although 
we  sold  no  powder,  would  have  been  at  the  53-cent  price  provided  by 
Congress.  I  think  there  are  no  contracts  with  the  United  States 
Government  in  this— yes ;  here  is  one.    No ;  that  is  TNT. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  would  like  to  offer  these  sheets  showing  the  individual 
contract  sales  for  the  years  1914  to  1918,  inclusive,  as  the  next  exhibit. 

(The  tabulations  referred  to  were  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1113  "  and 
is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  2990.)^ 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Mr.  Hiss,  I  would  like  to  ask  Mr.  AVhite 
this :  Would  it  be  possible  to  make  a  table  comparable  with  this 
statistical  section  which  you  provided  which,  without  indicating  the 
name  of  the  individual,  would  show  the  tax  paid?  - 

Mr.  White.  Yes. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Upon  these  incomes. 


1  The  committee  later  computed  the  total  amount  of  du  Pont  sales  from  1014  to  1918 
to  certain  foreign  countries  from  "  Exhibit  No.  IIIM."  These  computations  were  intro- 
duced into  the  record  as  "  Exhibits  Nos.  l-".!)(t  to  1394  '",  inclusive.  See  Hearings,  I'art 
XVII,    Appendix,    pp.    4432    to    4435. 

-  Under  date  of  .Ian.  8,  1935,  the  Treasur.v  Department  supplied  the  committee  with  a 
compilation  of  original  taxes  filed  by  list  of  individuals  in  "Exhibit  No.  1112."  This 
list  and  the  accompanying  letter  from  the  Treasury  Department  appear  in  the  appendix 
on  p.  3154. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2925 

Mr.  White.  Yes.  I  can  only  say  this,  that  our  record  uj)on  which 
this  was  made  is  the  amount  of  income  and,  of  course,  the  tax  as 
reported  originally  without  any  adjustment  after  audit  or  exaniina- 
tion  by  the  Bureau.  The  section  that  is  shown  hei-e  was  as  originally 
filed;  and,  of  course,  the  tax  would  have  to  be  that  same  amount, 
because  the  statistical  section  does  not  have  the  data  showing  the 
final  disposition  of  these  cases. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  But  on  the  same  basis  that  this  was  pi-e- 
pared,  you  could  provide  that  statement? 

Mr.  White.  Yes. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Would  you  be  kind  enough  to  provide  that 
at  your  convenience  to  the  committee? 

Mr.  White.  Just  the  amount  in  each  instance,  the  aggregate 
amount  ? 

Senator  Vandenberg.  The  amount  in  each  instance. 

Mr.  White.  Without  the  name? 

Ser.ator  Vandenberg.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is,  the  amount  of  the  tax  paid  and  the  amount  of 
income  ? 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Yes;  the  amount  of  income  and  the  amount 
of  tax  paid. 

Mr.  White.  The  amount  of  income  and  the  amount  of  tax  re- 
ported.   It  will  have  to  be  the  amount  reported. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  That  is  right. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Chairman,  I  should  like  to  offer  for  the  record  a 
memorandum  consisting  of  excerpts  from  various  official  reports, 
summarizing  profits  made  during  the  war. 

The  Chairman.  Very  well.    It  will  be  received. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  1114" 
and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3006.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  a  report  made  to  the  Director  General  of  Railroads  by 
Washington  E.  Lowe  and  James  L.  Dohr,  certified  public  account- 
ants, now  in  the  files  of  the  Director  General  of  Railroads,  the 
United  States  Steel  Corporation  is  shown  to  have  had  the  following 
profit  record : 

In  1914  it  made  3  percent  on  its  investment.  In  1915  this  had 
increased  to  10  percent;  in  1916.  23  percent;  in  1917,  3.5  percent;  and 
in  1918,  2'9  percent. 

The  gross  adjusted  earnings  as  reported  for  the  years  1915  through 
1918,  respectively,  were  as  follows: 

$131,223,000  in  1915,  $348,254,000  in  1916.  $585,494,000  in  1917,  and 
$519,469,000  in  1918. 

The  Nagel  Steel  Co.  showed  in  1917  a  percentage  of  319  percent 
on  investments,  according  to  a  report  of  the  Federal  Trade  Com- 
mission. 

The  Utah  Copper  Co.,  according  to  the  report  of  the  Graham 
committee  previously  referred  to.  in  1917  had  200  percent  profit  on 
the  capital  stock,  without  considering  whether  it  was  overcapitalized; 
in  1918.  150  percent. 

In  1917  the  Calumet  &  Hecla  Mining  Co.  had  800  percent  return 
on  its  capital  stock,  and  in  1918  it  was  300  percent. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  That  will  be  a  poignant  memory  today. 


2926  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Hiss.  According  to  the  Federal  Trade  Commission  report,  the 
New  Jersey  Zinc  Co.  in  1916  paid  dividends  of  76  percent  on  invest- 
ment and  on  capital  stock  issue,  and  its  net  earnings  were  95  percent 
of  investment. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Again  there  are  no  figures  indicated  as  to 
the  tax? 

Mr.  Hiss.  No,  sir. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont,  you  referred  a  few  moments  ago  to  the  fact 
that  heavy  taxes  were  levied  on  income  during  the  war.  Earlier 
Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont  had  referred  to  the  fact  that  part  of  the  high 
powder  charges  to  certain  of  your  customers,  part  of  the  difference 
between  the  charges  to  Bethlehem  Steel  Co.,  for  example,  and  certain 
foreign  customers,  was  due  to  the  necessity  for  amortizing  plants. 
Is  it  true  that  as  a  general  rule  during  the  war-time  period  there  was 
amortization  of  plants  throughout  the  munitions  industries,  or  was 
your  company  alone  in  that  respect? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know,  but  I  should  think  prudence 
would  have  dictated  it  to  others  as  it  did  to  us. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Are  you  familiar  with  the  Revenue  Act  of  1918.  that 
section  which  permitted  deductions  based  on  the  amortization  for 
disuse ;  that  is,  deterioration  and  obsolescence  of  facilities  constructed 
for  war  time? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  have  heard  there  was  such  a  thing.  I  am 
not  familiar  with  it. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Do  you  know  whether  your  company  claimed  any  deduc- 
tions on  that  account? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  could  not  tell  you.  I  presume  some  of  our 
American  orders  involved  them. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Would  you  furnish  the  committee  with  a  statement  of 
how  much  of  your  plant  investment  you  claimed  deductions  for  in 
later  years,  on  income  taxes  in  later  years?  ^ 

I  will  not  read  this  into  the  record,  but  will  the  reporter  please 
copy  it  into  the  record  as  though  it  had  been  read  in  full  ? 

(The  matter  referred  to  is  as  follows :) 

REVENUE  ACT  OF    lOlS,   PUBLIC,    NO.    1154,    SIXTY-FIFTH    CONGRESS 

Sec.  234.  (a)  Tliat  in  computing  the  net  income  of  a  corporation  subject  to 
the  tax  imposed  by  section  230  there  shall  be  allowed  as  deductions:     *     *     » 

(8)  In  the  case  of  buildings,  machinery,  equipment,  or  other  facilities,  con- 
structed, erected,  installed,  or  acquired,  on  or  after  April  6,  1917,  for  the  pro- 
duction of  articles  contributing  to  the  prosecution  of  the  present  war,  and  in 
the  case  of  vessels  constructed  or  acquired  on  or  after  such  date  for  the  trans- 
portation of  articles  or  men  contributing  to  the  prosecution  of  the  present  war, 
there  shall  be  allowed  a  reasonable  deduction  for  the  amortization  of  such  part 
of  the  cost  of  such  facilities  or  vessels  as  has  been  borne  by  the  taxpayer,  but 
not  again  including  any  amount  otherwise  allowed  under  this  title  or  previous 
acts  of  Congress  as  a  deduction  in  computing  net  income.  At  any  time  within 
3  years  after  the  termination  of  the  present  war  the  Commissioner  may,  and 
at  the  request  of  the  taxpayer  sliall,  reexamine  the  return,  and  if  he  then 
finds  as  a  result  of  au  appraisal  or  from  other  evidence  that  the  deduction  orig- 
inally allowed  was  incorrect,  the  taxes  imposed  by  this  title  and  by  title  III 
for  the  year  or  years  affected  shall  be  redetermined  and  the  amount  of  taxi 
due  upon  such  redetermination,  if  any,  shall  be  paid  upon  notice  and  demand 
by  the  collector,  or  the  amount  of  tax  overpaid,  if  any,  shall  be  credited  or 
refunded  to  the  taxpayer  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  section  252. 


^  See  footnote  on  p.  2927  for  statement  of  amounts  allowed  on  a  basis  of  amortizatioD.. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2927 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  might  say  that  in  our  own  accounting  we 
took  amortization  year  by  year,  trying  to  apportion  it  as  best  we 
could  over  the  likely  time  of  use  of  the  plants.  But  under  the  Fed- 
eral tax  office  ruling,  that  amortization,  I  think,  was  all  taken  at 
the  end  of  the  period,  was  it  not? 

Mr.  Eliason.  As  I  recall  it,  the  law  at  the  time  did  not  permit 
amortization  as  such.  The  law  permitted,  as  I  recall,  a  reasonable 
allowance  for  depreciation,  including  wear  and  tear.  On  our  books 
we  took  the  amortization  charge.  The  Revenue  Bureau  refused 
to  allow  the  deduction  which  had  been  taken  on  our  books  and  wliich 
we  claimed  on  our  report  as  filed. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Will  you  furnish  that  report? 

Mr.  Eliason.  What  do  j^ou  want? 

Mr.  Hiss.  A  statement  of  actual  amounts  allowed  on  the  basis  of 
amortization.^ 

Mr.  Eliason.  Amortization  allowed  by  years? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Right. 

Colonel  Harris,  in  addition  to  the  profits  made  by  actual  con- 
tractors with  the  Government,  were  there  not  also  large  profits 
made  in  the  field  of  raw  materials?  In  other  words,  the  demand  for 
raw  materials  in  order  to  fill  large  Government  orders  must  have 
increased  the  demand  for  raw  materials  as  well,  must  it  not? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  The  demand  for  raw  materials  was 
increased,  and  the  price  rose.  In  many  cases  it  was  later  brought 
down  by  governmental  intervention. 

prices   of   certain    raw   materials   from    1913    TO    1919 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  should  like  to  introduce  certain  charts  that  have  been 
prepared  for  the  committee  as  to  price  fluctuations  of  raw  materials 
during  the  war.  The  first  of  these,  "  Exhibit  No.  1115-A  ",  is  fuel 
oil,  as  contrasted  with  the  price  of  all  commodities  during  the  period 
from  1913  to  1919.  You  will  see  that  all  commodities  were  gradually 
rising,  so  that  there  were  high  prices  for  everything.  Fuel  oil  in 
January  1916  was  well  up  above  the  line,  and  in  August  1917,  after 
the  United  States  had  entered  the  war,  it  went  sharply  above  the 
level  of  all  commodities  and  remained  there  until  after  the  armis- 
tice, when  it  fell  way  below  the  ordinary  commodities  line. 

The  next  chart,  "  Exhibit  No.  1115-B  ",  is  wool,  which  was  required 
largely,  I  assume,  for  uniforms,  blankets,  and  things  of  that  sort. 
It  will  be  seen  that  from  the  beginning  of  the  World  War,  or  from 
slightly  before  that,  wool  went  way  up  above  the  all-commodities 
level,  and  after  the  United  States  had  entered  the  war  this  shows 
a  very  sharp  increase  until  just  after  the  armistice,  when  it  fell,  but 
did  not  fall  below  the  general  level  of  commodities. 

The  price  of  bacon,  shown  in  "  Exhibit  No.  1115-C  ",  which  was 
purchased  in  large  quantities  by  the  Army,  I  assume,  similarly,  in 
April  1917,  just  after  the  United  States  went  into  the  war,  "rose 
sharply  from  a  position  well  below  the  level  of  all  commodities,  to 
a  position  well  above  that,  and  remained  well  above  until  after  the 
armistice. 


1  Under  date  of  Dec.  15,  1934,  the  du  Pont  Co.  notified  the  committee  that  Mmortiza- 
tion  allowed  by  the  United  States  Internal  Revenue  Bureau,  in  final  consolidated  tax- 
returns  of  E.  T.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  was  $15,343,987.69  for  1918  and  iR 2.5,1  ;!5.b(i 
for  1919,   a   total   of  $15,369,123.55. 


2928  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Senator  Vandenbekg.  Have  you  stated  the  basis  of  your  statistics  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  stated  at  the  bottom.  These  data  were  fur- 
nished by  the  Bureau  of  Labor  Statistics. 

Similarly,  in  regard  to  brass  sheets,  shown  in  "  Exhibit  No. 
1115-D  "  Brass  was  an  important  ordnance  item? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  It  was. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  price  rose  beginning  with  1917  and  remained  up 
until  January  1918,  when  suddenly  it  came  down,  and  rose  again 
in  August  1918  and  remained  up  until  after  the  armistice. 

Steel  sheets,  shown  on  "  Exhibit  No.  1115-E  ",  show  an  enormous 
increase  immediately  following  the  entering  of  the  United  States 
into  the  war.  This,  then,  comes  down  in  the  latter  part  of  1917  to  the 
even  level,  well  above  the  price  of  all  commodities,  which  it  main- 
tained until  after  the  armistice. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Does  this  indicate  that  this  price  is  400  per- 
cent as  compared  with  normal? 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  correct. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  During  the  war,  at  the  peak  of  the  war? 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  correct. 

Similarly,  with  regard  to  steel  plates,  shown  in  "  Exhibit  No. 
1115-F  *".  which  took  a  larger  chart  than  the  othere.  The  level  was. 
600  percent  at  a  period  a  month  or  two  after  the  United  States  had 
entered  the  war,  in  1917.  This  high  peak  was  brought  down  to  200 
percent  of  the  mean  average  of  1913,  where  it  remained  well  above 
the  all-commodity  average  until  shortly  after  the  armistice.. 

(The  charts  referred  to  were  marked  "Exhibit  Nos.  1115-xV  to 
1115-F  "'  and  are  inchided  in  the  appendix  on  pp.  3011  to  3014.) 

Senator  Clark.  It  remained  above  200  percent  until  after  the 
armistice  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  correct. 

Senator  Clark.  Colonel,  would  3^our  dealings  with  steel  producers,, 
speaking  generally,  be  on  a  cost-plus  basis  or  on  a  contract  basis  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Generally  on  a  contract  basis,.  Senator. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Have  you  no  sheet  for  the  powder? 

Mr.  Hiss.  No;  the  Bureau  of  Labor  Statistics  had  no  figures  on. 
powder. 

Mr.  Irknee  du  Pont.  I  can  furnish  them. 

Might  we  put  in  similar  charts  on  the  price  of  pow^der  for  the 
same  period?  ^ 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  think  it  lias  been  generally  admitted  that  the  price  of 
powder  went  down  f  rt)m  the  beginning  of  the  war.  I  do  not  see  the 
necessity  for  the  chart.  Mr.  du  Pont.  We  already  have  the  informa- 
tion. 

Mr.  Irexee  du  Pont.  The  facts  are,  of  course,  prior  to  the  war,, 
in  1913.  the  i)rice  of  cannon  powder  was  53  cents.     I  think  you  will 
find  that  all  the  Government  powder  bought  from  the  du  Pont  Co.. 
during  the  war  was  at  much  less  than  that  price,  less  than  ordinary 
cannon  powder. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  exhibit  already  introduced  lists  each,  sale  by  the- 
du  Pont  Co.  from  1914  to  1918.^ 

Mr.  Ljenee  du  Pont.  But  it  does  not  show  the  pre-Avar  price.. 


1  These  charts   were   furnished   hiter   and   marked    "Exhibits   N\)s.    12r)n-A.t(.)   12o3-F>'' 
Hearings.  Part  XV.  p.  :'.072,  appendix,  pp.  .'585;")  to  o8.">7. 
-'  "  Exhibit    Nil.    11(1!)." 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2929 

Mr.  Hiss.  Another  document  in  here  will  show  the  pre-war  price, 
which  will  be  introduced  later.^ 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  thought  it  might  be  well  to  put  them  in 
together,  to  show  the  comparison. 

Senator  Clark.  The  committee  will  take  a  recess  until  2  o'clock. 

(Thereupon,  at  12:30  p.m.  a  recess  was  taken  until  2  p.m.  of  the 
same  day.) 

ArTERNOON  SESSION 

The  committee  reconvened  at  2  p.  m. 

TESTIMONY  OF  LT.  COL.  C.  T.  HARRIS,  JR.,  LT.  E.  M.  BRANNON, 
IRENEE  DU  PONT,  PIERRE  DU  PONT,  J.  B.  ELIASON,  AND  W.  S. 
GREGG— Resumed 

Senator  Pope.  The  committee  will  be  in  order.  Mr.  Hiss,  you  may 
proceed.     Mr.  Swint,  did  you  desire  to  make  a  correction? 

Mr.  Swint.  Yes;  in  yesterday's  testimony,  in  response  to  a  ques- 
tion from  Mr.  Raushenbush,  I  stated  that  the  German  Explosives  Co. 
did  put  in  a  temporary  bid  for  the  erection  of  a  Chilean  powder  fac- 
tory. I  meant  to  say  that  they  expressed  a  willingness  to  do  so  or  an 
intention  to  do  so.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  the  Chilean  Government  lost 
interest  in  the  proposition  and  no  proposals  were  received  from 
anyone. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont,  I  understand,  wants  to  make  a 
slight  correction  for  the  record. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  was  asked  whether  the  du  Pont  Co.  car- 
ried its  own  insurance.  I  said  they  did  carry  insurance  against 
explosives.  That  w^as  true  before  the  war  and  after  the  war,  but 
during  the  war  period,  when  we  had  these  large  contracts  for  the 
Allies,  we  did  carry  outside  insurance. 

In  answer  to  your  question  as  to  whether  we  had  sufficient  nitrate 
capacity  to  cover  our  needs,  I  was  speaking  of  the  war  period,  in 
which  case  we  had  a  very  small  fraction  of  it. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Colonel  Harris,  to  clear  up  what  may  or  may  not  be 
an  uncertain  statement  in  the  record,  would  you  please  state  whether 
or  not  during  the  late  war  contracts  let  by  the  Ordnance  Depart- 
ment of  the  War  Department  were  let  on  a  bid  basis  or  on  a  nego- 
tiated basis. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  During  the  war  many  of  the  con- 
tracts let  b}^  the  Ordnance  Department  were  on  a  negotiated  basis, 
using  both  the  fixed-price  type  of  contract  and  the  cost-plus  type 
of  contract. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  wish  to  turn  over  to  the  reporter  a  document  which 
marked  for  the  record  as  "  Exhibit  No.  1107  ''  this  morning,  but  of 
which  I  did  not  have  d  copy.  This  is  a  statement  of  the  cost  of 
construction  by  the  "War  Department  during  the  World  War. 
Colonel  Harris  testified  to  it,  to  the  best  of  his  memory,  subject  to 
correction  when  the  original  document  was  later  produced.  This 
has  been  furnished  to  the  committee  by  the  Secretary  of  War.  It 
shows  that  the  cantonment  construction — by  the  way,  that  includes 
camps  of  all  kinds  as  well  as  cantonments  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Yes;  housing. 

Mutrodiicea  as  "Exhibit  No.   Iin2.'"      See  Hearings.   Part   XIV,  appendix,  p.   ."1:280. 


2930  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Hiss.  It  shows  that  cantonment  construction  amounted  to 
$496,389,000,  that  facilities  construction  operated  by  industry;  that 
means  the  facilities  after  construction  were  to  be  operated  by  in- 
dustry, doesn't  it? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  They  were  built  and  operated  by  in- 
dustry. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Facilities  construction  operated  by  industry,  amounted 
to  $442,430,000.  Facilities  construction  operated  by  the  Govern- 
ment; that  means  after  the  building;  to  be  operated  by  the  Govern- 
ment, but  actually  not  constructed  by  the  Government,  is  that 
correct  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  $332,000,000.  That  makes  a  grand  total  of 
$1,271,000,000  for  construction  during  the  war. 

Mr.  Rudd,  will  you  please  be  sworn. 

TESTIMONY  OF  JOHN  H.  RUDD 

1916    AND    1917    INCOME   AND    TAXES   OF   CERTAIN    CORPORATIONS 

(The  witness  was  duly  sworn  by  the  chairman.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  Will  you  give  your  full  name,  please? 

Mr.  RuDD.  My  full  name  is  John  H.  Rudd, 

Mr.  Hiss.  Will  you  state  your  experience  in  accounting  work? 

Mr.  Rudd.  Since  February  1,  1921,  I  have  been  with  the  United 
States  Government,  the  Interstate  Commerce  Commission,  Bureau 
of  Finance.  On  November  7,  1933,  I  was  detailed  to  work  on  the 
Commission's  air-mail  investigation,  and  since  June  1,  I  have  been 
on  the  munitions  investigation.  Prior  to  February  1921,  I  was  with 
the  Southern  Railway  C^o. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Rudd,  I  show  you  a  volume  entitled,  "  Senate 
Document  No.  259  of  the  Sixty-fifth  Congress,  second  session.  Cor- 
porate Earnings  and  Government  Revenues  ",  being  a  letter  from  the 
Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  transmitting  in  response  to  a  Senate 
resolution  certain  facts,  figures,  data,  and  information  taken  from 
1916  and  1917  income  and  excess  profits  tax  returns  of  corporations, 
published  in  1918.  This  publication  states  the  earnings  of  certain 
corporations  that  were  referred  to  by  code  numbers.  Is  that  cor- 
rect, Mr.  Rudd? 

Mr.  Rudd.  That  is  correct;  yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Have  you  been  furnished  a  copy  of  the  code  which  was 
retained  by  the  Bureau  of  Internal  Revenue  and  from  which  this 
was  made  up? 

Mr.  Rudd.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Have  you  had  copies  made  of  the  code,  insofar  as  it 
relat<^s  to  certain  companies? 

Mr.  Rudd.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  will  offer  that  as  part  of  "  Exhibit  No.  1116." 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  will  show  you  these  documents  and  ask  you  to  identify 
them.     Were  they  prepared  under  your  direction? 

Mr.  Rudd.  Under  my  direction;  yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Were  they  carefully  checked  against  the  originals? 

Mr.  Rudd.  They  were  checked  against  the  originals;  yes. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2931 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  they  represent  the  statement  of  the  actual  names 
of  the  corporations  referred  to  by  code  on  certain  pages  of  this  par- 
ticular document  ? 

Mr.  RuDD.  They  do;  yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  should  also  like  to  have  marked  as  "  Exhibit  No. 
1116 ""  the  respective  pages  which  are  referred  to  on  tlie  attached 
-sheets  here. 

(The  codes  in  S.  Doc.  No.  259,  each  followed  by  the  corresponding 
codes  relating  to  companies  as  made  up  by  Mr.  Rudd  were  marked 
"Exhibit  No.  1116"  and  are  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3015.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  would  like  to  state  for  the  record,  Mr.  Rudd,  before 
you  go,  that  we  are  informed  that  these  figures  represent  the  figures 
.as  of  the  date  that  this  was  printed — namely,  1918 — before  refunds. 

Mr.  Rudd.  Excuse  me;  1917. 

Mr.  Hiss.  As  of  1917? 

Mr.  Rudd.  Yes,  sir;  that  was  in  1917  and  also  the  net  income  for 
1916. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  beg  your  pardon.  The  question  is  this :  Since  that 
book  was  published  certain  adjustments  and  changes  may  have  been 
made  in  certain  of  the  accounts. 

Mr.  Rudd.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  other  words,  the  taxes  may  be  less  or  greater  now 
than  are  indicated  here? 

Mr.  Rudd.  That  is  right. 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  the  income  may  be  less  or  greater? 

Mr.  Rudd.  That  is  right. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  order  to  properly  describe  them,  that  qualification 
should  be  made? 

Mr.  Rudd,  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  They  are  not  final  figures? 

Mr.  Rudd.  No,  sir. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Merely  figures  as  of  1918? 

Mr.  Rudd.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Hiss.  All  right,  thank  you. 

Colonel  Harris,  are  you  familiar  with  certain  of  the  construction 
<€ontracts  let  during  the  World  War? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  No;  I  am  not. 

-OLD  hickory  contract — NECESSITY  FOR  CONSTRUCTION  OF  OLD  HICKORY 

POWDER   PLANT 

Mr.  Hiss.  Are  you  familiar  with  the  contract  for  the  construction 
-of  a  powder  plant  at  Nashville,  Tenn.,  known  as  the  "  Old  Hickory  " 
plant? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  have  knowledge  of  that  contract,  but 
not  detailed  knowledge  as  to  its  provisions. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Would  you  state  your  relations  to  the  Old  Hickory 
negotiations,  or  operations,  or  whatever  part  you  played? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  You  mean  my  personal  relations 
during  the  war? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Yes. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  had  no  relations  whatever  with  the 
negotiations  for  nor  the  execution  of  that  contract. 

83876— 35— PT  13 3 


2932  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Hiss.  Is  the  construction  of  Old  Hickory  considered  a  rep- 
resentative contract?  Would  you  say  that  it  was  typical  of  other 
contracts  let  during  the  war? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  It  was  an  unusual  contract,  because  of 
its  magnitude.  It  was  a  typical  contract  in  regard  to  certain  other 
phases,  inasmuch  as  it  was  not  a  fixed-price  contract  and  also  in 
that  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  acted  as  agent  for  the  Govern- 
ment.   Other  corporations  did  the  same  thing. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Is  it  a  contract  which  represents  the  kind  of  relation- 
ship between  Government  and  industry  of  which  the  Ordnance  De- 
partment felt  proud  ?  Was  it  considered  a  signal  achievement  in  the 
field  of  engineering  construction  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  You  are  asking  my  personal  views  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Yes. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Or  my  views  as  a  representative  of 
the  War  Department? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Your  personal  views. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  The  contract  as  signed,  in  my  opinion, 
was  an  excellent  contract,  under  the  circumstances. 

Mr,  Hiss.  I  am  referring,  rather,  to  the  construction  carried  out 
under  the  contract,  the  job  in  toto. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  That  was  a  splendid  contract,  because 
the  Government  paid  $1  for  the  services. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  am  not  sure  of  the  date  at  which  this  was  published, 
but  it  is  a  publication  entitled  "  Old  Hickory  '',  published  by  the  du 
Pont  Co.  in  Wilmington,  Del.,  a  pamphlet  of  some  20  pages.  At  page 
6  there  is  quoted  a  letter  from  C.  C.  Williams,  Chief  of  Ordnance. 
Do  you  know  whether  Major  General  Williams  was  Chief  of  Ord- 
nance, or  can  you  tell  the  time  he  was  Chief  of  Ordnance  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  He  was  Chief  of  Ordnance  from  early 
in  1918  until  1930. 

Mr.  Hiss,  The  last  two  paragraphs  quoted  from  General  Wil- 
liams' letter  are  as  follows,  this  being  a  letter  presumbably  to  the 
du  Pont  Co.  [reading]  : 

The  history  of  what  j'ou  have  done  at  Nashville — 

That  is  where  Old  Hickory  was  located? 
Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Yes. 
Mr.  Hiss  (continuing)  : 

The  history  of  what  you  have  done  at  Nashville  is  paralleled  by  the  very 
satisfactory  and  uniform  fulfillment  of  your  expectations  on  practically  all 
other  work  you  have  undertaken  for  the  Government. 

It  is  therefore  a  distinct  pleasure  to  express  to  you  the  very  sincere  appre- 
ciation of  the  Ordnance  Department  for  the  highly  efficient  and  fruitful 
part  your  company  has  played  in  the  development  of  the  munitions  s^upply. 

This  contract  as  finally  signed  on  March  23,  1918,  provided  for 
no  profit  in  the  construction,  did  it  not? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  $1. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  was  a  rather  unusual  provision  in  a  contract  in 
those  days,  was  it  not,  Colonel  Harris? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  would  say  so.  We  had  a  number 
of  people  working  for  the  Government  also  for  the  compensation 
of  $1. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  offer  for  the  record  a  memorandum  dated  December 
13,  1917,  signed  by  H,  M.  Pierce,  chief  engineer. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2933 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  1117" 
and  is  inchided  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3124.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont,  would  you  just  keep  a  copy  of  that 
in  front  of  you  ?  Mr.  Pierce,  who  signs  this  as  chief  engineer,  was 
the  chief  engineer  oj/the  du  Pont  Co.  throughout  the  year  1917, 
was  he,  Mr.  gli^c^oii/^ 

Mr.  Pieri(e  1)U  ^^nt.  He  was. 

Mr.  Hiss.  ^^:^='&  will  notice  that  in  the  first  paragraph  of  this 
memorandum  Mr.  Pierce  states : 

Diplomatic  relations  between  the  United  States  and  Germany  being  broken 
on  February  3,  1917,  and  we,  realizing  the  powder  situation  in  the  United 
States  and  the  advisability  of  locating  a  new  powder  plant  to  comply  with 
the  rulings  of  the  War  College,  started  our  engineers  on  February  7  collecting 
data  on  stream  flow  and  study  of  topographical  maps  for  n  smokeless- 
powder-plant  location  to  comply  with  the  rulings  of  the  War  College,  since 
none  of  our  plants  complied  with  these  rulings. 

Was  that  as  a  result  of  negotiations  with  the  War  Department, 
Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  PiEREE  DU  Pont.  I  think  not  at  the  time.  Our  executive 
committee  had  passed  a  resolution  authorizing  this  investigation  in 
the  early  part  of  April,  but  this  particular  investigation  was  started 
without  the  executive  committee's  command.  I  think  it  had  no 
relation  to  the  War  Department,  but  I  may  be  quite  mistaken  in  that. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Was  this  investigation  preparatory  to  a  plant  being 
built  by  the  du  Pont  Co.  for  its  own  operation  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  We  did  not  know.  Our  plants  were  located 
near  the  seaboard  and  evidently  in  vulnerable  position  in  the  event 
of  enemy  attack.  We  thought  some  preparation  should  be  made  to 
move  into  the  interior,  either  through  our  own  building  or  Govern- 
ment buildings  or  that  of  some  other  party. 

Mr.  Hiss.  At  this  time- — namely,  February  1917 — was  your  com- 
pany considering  the  problem  of  the  proper  utilization  after  the 
war  of  excess  plant  capacity  developed  during  the  war? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  we  realized  almost  at  the  beginning 
that  that  plant  capacity  would  be  perfectly  useless  after  the  war, 
excepting  the  real  estate  that  might  remain. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  call  your  attention  to  a  meeting  of  the  executive  com- 
mittee on  February  5,  1917,  of  which  I  have  not  a  complete  report. 
I  should  appreciate  it  if  you  would  furnish  us  with  a  copy  of  the 
resolution.  In  this  the  development  department  reported  on  the 
utilization  of  plant  capacity  after  the  war,  and  the  development  de- 
partment was  directed  by  the  executive  committee  to  confine  its 
efforts  to  the  development  of  five  fields  of  industry,  namely,  dyestuff 
and  allied  or  organic  chemicals,  vegetable  oil  industry,  paint  and 
varnish,  water-soluble  chemicals,  and  industries  related  to  cellulose 
and  to  cotton  purification. 

This  was  an  attempt  to  prepare  your  excess  plant  capacity  for 
use,  or  was  it  an  investigation  looking  toward  new  construction? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  It  is  hard  to  say  what  you  mean  by  excess 
plant  capacity.  The  powder  plants  were  useful  as  such,  but  the 
nitric-acid  and  sulphuric-acid  plants,  connected  with  the  water  sup- 
ply, were  possibly  useful  for  other  purposes,  and  it  was  of  those 
facilities  that  the  investigation  was  made.  The  actual  powder  plant, 
of  course,  had  no  relation  to  any  industrial  development. 


2934  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  the  purification  of  cotton  which  was  done  for 
powder  could  be  used  for  various  cellulose  products? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  offer  this  letter  dated  Marcli  22,  1917,  as  an  exhibit, 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1118  *'  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3125.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  March  22,  1917,  you,  Mr.  du  Pont,  wrote  a  letter 
to  the  then  Secretary  of  War,  Mr.  Newton  D.  Baker,  in  which  you 
submitted  sonie  data  with  respect  to  the  production  of  military  ex- 
plosives and  raw  materials.  On  the  first  page  of  the  enclosed  memo- 
randum you  stated  that  your  orders  with  the  Allies  were  sufficient 
to  run  your  plants  at  their  full  rated  capacity  of  27,500,000  pounds 
per  month  until  September  15,  1917. 

On  the  second  page  3^ou  stated  that  the  du  Pont  Co.  bought  nitrate 
of  soda  for  the  Hercules  Powder  Co.  and  the  Atlas  Powder  Co.  under 
a  court  dissolution  decision.  In  1912  there  was  a  consent  decree 
entered  in  an  antitrust  suit ;  is  that  correct,  Mr.  du  Pont  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  under  that  decree  the  Hercules  Powder  Co.  and  the 
Atlas  Powder  Co.  were  established? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  is  right. 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  after  they  were  established  the  du  Pont  Co.  pur- 
chased nitrate  on  behalf  of  the  Hercules  Powder  Co.  and  the  Atlas 
Powder  Co.  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  They  were  given  that  right  under  the  disso- 
lution decree. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  have  been  unable  to  find  that  particular  sentence.  I 
wish  you  could  have  somebody  point  it  out. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  possibly  is  it  a  general  right  to  use 
facilities. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  du  Pont,  nitrate  of  soda  was  an  essential  item  in 
the  making  of  powder,  was  it  not? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  It  was  at  that  time ;  yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  So  if  you  controlled  the  price  which  Hercules  and  Atlas 
had  to  pay,  you  would  control  their  output  of  powder? 

Mr,  Pierre  du  Pont.  We  could  not  control,  because  under  the 
arrangement  with  them  they  were  entitled  to  the  same  price  we  paid. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Whatever  price  you  paid  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes;  with  possibly  some  kind  of  a  comm's- 
sion.  I  am  not  sure  about  that.  But  the  commission  was  agreed 
upon  in  the  dissolution  suit. 

Mr.  Hiss.  What  right  did  they  have  to  call  upon  you  for  delivery 
of  nitrate,  if  you  did  not  have  enough  for  your  own  uses? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  do  not  remember  the  exact  arrangement 
with  them,  but  I  presume  they  notified  us  of  their  requirements  in 
time  for  us  to  purchase  in  Chile. 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  had  no  difficulty  in  those  days  in  getting  all  the 
nitrate  that  was  necessary? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Not  before  the  war ;  no. 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  mean  before  the  United  States  went  into  the  war? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  No;  I  mean  before  the  Great  War  started. 

Mr.  Hiss.  This  letter  is  March  22,  1917.  As  of  this  time,  do  you 
remember  ? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2935 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  There  was  grave  doubt  about  the  nitrate 
supply.  Nitrate  had  to  be  brought  from  Chile,  brought  through  the 
Canal,  which  was  not  in  hundred-percent  condition  at  the  time.  We 
were  obliged  to  make  arrangements  to  carry  the  nitrate  across  the 
continent  by  rail,  in  the  event  of  failure  of  the  Canal.  So  that  situa- 
tion was  not  at  all  assured.  Of  course,  there  was  the  question  of 
enemy  attack  then,  even  before  the  United  States  went  into  the  war. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Do  you  know  what  the  obligations  of  your  company 
were  to  turn  over  to  Hercules  and  Atlas  nitrate,  if  you  did  not  have 
enough  for  your  own  needs?  ^ 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  have  no  recollection  that  there  was  any 
obligation. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Were  they  permitted  under  the  arrangement  with  you 
to  buy  from  any  source  other  tlian  your  company  'i 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  believe  so;  yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  believe  they  were? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  If  this  is  important,  I  would  like  to  look  up 
the  exact  standing,  because  my  recollection  is  very  faint  on  it. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  The  thing  to  do  is  to  go  right  to  the  original 
document.     Do  not  depend  on  memory  17  or  18  years  ago. 

Mr.  Hiss.  If  you  will,  submit  copies  of  the  contracts. 

Mr.  Eliason.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  the  next  page,  Mr.  du  Pont,  the  last  paragraph : 

In  our  judgment,  the  users  of  nitrate  in  this  country,  other  than  the  above, 
have  about  3  months'  supply  on  hand  and  liave  contracts  for  delivery  in  this 
tcuntry  for  the  balance  of  the  yeai*. 

Do  you  know  what  users  of  nitrate  you  were  referring  to? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Of  course,  there  was  a  large  fertilizer  in- 
dustry. I  do  not  know  what  condition  they  were  in  at  the  time. 
And  there  w^ere  other  large  manufacturers  of  acids  and,  of  course, 
other  manufacturers  of  commercial  explosives. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Gregg  has  pointed  to  a  particular  paragraph  in  the 
consent  decree  filed  June  13,  1912,  in  the  District  Court  of  the  United 
States  for  tiie  District  of  Delaware,  in  tlie  case  of  The  United  States 


18  contratts  dated  Jan.  15,  1913,  between  the  du  Pont  Co.  and  the  Hercules 
Powder  Co.  and  3  contracts  of  the  same  date  and  covering  thie  same  matters  between 
the  du  Pont  Co.  and  the  Atlas  Powder  Co.  were  furnished  to  the  committee  in  response 
to  the  above  request  and  are  in  the  committee's  files.  Under  these  contracts  (1)  Her- 
cules and  Atlas  agreed  to  buy  all  of  their  requirements  of  nitrate  of  soda  and  of  crude 
glycerine  exclusively  from  the  du  Pont  Co.  at  cost  plus  a  coiiimissiion  of  1^4  percent  for 
nitrate  and  of  lYs  percent  for  glycerin  ;  this  feature  could  be  canceled  by  Hercules  or  Atlaa 
on  1  year's  notice  ;  (2)  Hercules  and  Atlas  were  entitled  to  use  the  facilities  of  the  du  Pont 
purchasing  department  for  other  suppli-es  at  cost  plus  a  commissi.in  of  ,^^5  percent 
(on  July  .31,  1914,  this  commission  was  reduced  to  %  percent  for  the  Atlas  Co.)  ;  (3) 
information  contained  in  the  du  Pont  Co.  trade  bureau  as  of  Dec.  31,  1912,  was  made 
available  to  the  Hercules  and  Atlas  companies  upon  request  at  cost  of  compilation  and 
delivery;  (4)  Hercules  and  Atlas  agreed  to  pay  a  proportion  of  tue  expenses  of'  th_ 
du  Pont  facilities  in  reference  to  experimentation,  development  of  the  art  and  scientific 
research  in  the  respective  fields  of  dynamite,  B.  blasting  powder,  black  sporting  powder, 
and  smokeless  sporting  powder  whenever  used  by  Hercules  and  Atlas,  based  upon  the 
relation  the  gross  output  of  each  company  of  each  of  the  listed  articles  bore  to  the 
total  output  thereof  by  all  companies,  including  the  du  Pont  Co.,  using  the  facilities: 
this  was  terminable  by  Hercules  or  Atlas  at  the  end  of  any  year  on  6  months'  notice  ; 
(5)  the  contracts  were  to  continue  for  5  years  terminable  by  Atlas  or  Hercules,  except 
in  the  respects  indicated  above,  on  3  months'  notice. 

I'nder  date  of  May  9,  1935,  the  du  Pont  Co.  notified  the  committee  that  by  agreements 
dated  Dec.  31,  1917,  Oct.  26,  1918,  and  Dec.  31,  1919,  the  exclusive  arrangements  as  to 
nitrate  of  soda,  crude  glycerine,  and  refined  glycerin  were  exten<led  to  December  1920. 
The  Dec.  31.  1917,  agreement  included  suljihur  within  the  exclusive  arrangement.  Copies 
of  all  the  agreements  are  in  the  committee   files. 


2936  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

of  America  v.  E.  I.  (hi  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.^  and  others.     At  page 
8,  paragraph  13,  of  the  decree,  the  final  decree,  it  says : 

During  a  period  of  at  least  5  years — 

This  is  an  obligation  imposed  on  all  of  the  defendants,  I  judge. 
There  is  no  subject  to  the  sentence. 

Mr.  Gregg.  What  do  you  mean  ?  This  paragraph  you  are  reading 
here  'l 

Mr.  Hiss.  Yes.  That  means  all  of  the  defendants  named  in  the 
suit,  doesn't  it? 

Mr.  Gregg.  No  ;  it  means  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co. 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  page  3  of  the  consent  decree,  the  order  is  that  a 
plan  be  adopted  by  27  named  defendants,  including  the  du  Pont 
Co.,  and  the  thirteenth  paragraph  in  that  order  is  that  during  a 
period  of  at  least  5  years  there  shall  be  furnished  to  each  of  two 
corporations  to  be  established  such  facilities,  information,  and  use 
of  organization  as  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  may  operate  or 
possess  in  reference  to  the  purchase  of  materials,  ex])erimentation, 
development  of  the  art  and  scientific  research,  as  said  two  corpora- 
tions— they  were  the  Atlas  and  Hercules — may  desire  from  time  to 
time  in  the  interest  of  their  business  and  upon  some  reasonable  terms 
as  to  the  cost  thereof  to  said  two  corporations.  Purs'uant  to  that 
clause,  specific  contracts  were  entered  into,  including  nitrate  of  soda ; 
is  that  right  ?  ^ 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  presume  so. 

Mr.  Hiss.  If  we  may  have  copies  of  those  contracts,  that  will  clear 
it  up. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont,  in  1917  do  you  know  whether  any  of  the  offi- 
cers or  major  stockholders  of  your  company  were  also  stockholders 
of  either  the  Hercules  or  the  Atlas  Powder  Co.  ?  - 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  believe  there  w^ere.  I  think  the  records 
have  been  presented  here. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  1917? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  thought  that  record  was  presented.  Maybe 
that  record  only  relates  to  recent  days. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  have  here  simply  a  summary  of  dividends  received  by 
certain  of  the  officers  and  directors. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  believe  quite  a  number  of  them  were  inter- 
ested in  the  stocks  of  those  companies. 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  you  believe  that  has  been  furnished  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  thought  it  had,  but  I  may  be  mistaken 
about  it. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know  what  date  that  was. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  In  1917. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  think  the  data  furnished  of  the  holdings 
of  the  Atlas  and  Hercules  Powder  Cos.  were  as  of  September  this 
year. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  think  so. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  You  asked  for  it  and  we  give  it  that  way. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  think  so. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  At  least,  I  did. 


^  See  footnote  on  p.  29.S5  for  information  regarding  Atlas  and  Hercules  contracts. 
2  The   du   IVint   Co.   later   supplied   the   list   of   Hercules   and   Atlas   stockholders  as   of 
Jan.   1,   1917.     See  appendix,   p.   3160. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2937 

lAv.  Hiss.  Will  you  give  us,  Mr.  Eliason,  the  1917  stock  holdings 
that  were  held  by  officers  and  directors  of  the  du  Pont  Co.  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont,  in  the  spring  of  1917  did  your  company  for- 
mally launch  upon  the  manufacture  of  dyes? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  believe  it  was  about  that  time.  Undoubt- 
edly there  is  a  record  of  the  executive  committee  on  that  subject. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  only  record  I  have  been  able  to  find  that  seemed  to 
point  to  a  sf)ecific  date  was  a  meeting  of  April  3,  1917,  just  before  the 
declaration  of  war,  and  the  resolution  stated  that  there  had  been  an 
agreement  made  with  Mr.  M.  R.  Poucher  to  deliver  $100,000  worth 
of  common  stock  at  the  then  market  value,  whenever  the  company 
decided  to  engage  in  the  dye  industry. 

The  resolution  further  recited  that  as  the  company  had  decided 
to  engage  in  the  dye  industry  and  had  on  April  2  appropriated  money 
for  an  auramine  plant,  the  stock  should  be  delivered  to  Mr.  Poucher. 

That  would  be  the  official  beginning  of  the  company's  entrance 
into  the  dye  field  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  would  think  so ;  yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Was  construction  undertaken  by  the  company  in  con- 
nection with  the  dye  industry  in  this  period — 1917? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Could  you  state  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  certainly  was  started  about  that  time.  I 
certainly  could  not  tell  you  what  was  done  personally. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  du  Pont,  I  call  your  attention  to  extracts  from  the 
minutes  of  a  meeting  of  the  General  Munitions  Board  held  on 
Wednesday,  April  11,  1917,  which  are  offered  as  an  exhibit,  at  which 
were  present  Colonel  Dunn,  Major  Pierce,  Paymaster  Hancock,  Mr. 
Summers,  ]\Ir.  Eisenman,  Mr.  Rosenwald — do  you  know  what  Mr. 
Rosenwald  that  was.  Colonel? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Mr.  Julius  Rosenwald,  I  imagine. 

Mr.  Hiss  (continuing).  Mr.  Scott,  and  Mr,  Bolton,  secretary. 

(The  minutes  referred  to  were  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1118-A"  and 
are  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3129.) 

Mr.  Hiss  (reading)  : 

Mr.  Scott  advised  the  Board  that  a  conference  had  been  held  yesterday  with 
the  Du  Pont  powder  iieople.  in  which  nieetinir  a  possible  shortage  of  powder 
was  mentioned  and  that  further  data  on  this  subject  was  being  compiled  by 
the  Du  Pont  people  and  would  be  submitted  by  them  at  an  early  date. 

Then,  in  this  same  connection,  there  was  a  meeting  on  April  16, 
1917,  of  the  same  Board,  extracts  of  the  minutes  of  which  I  will  offer 
for  the  record. 

(The  minutes  referred  to  were  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1119  "  and 
are  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3129.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  At  which  the  chairman — Mr.  Scott  being  in  the  chair — 
reported  that  a  conference  had  been  held  yesterday  with  Colonel  Dunn — 

That  is  the  day  before,  April  15 — 

and  representatives  of  the  Du  Pont  Powder  Co.,  at  which  it  was  decided  that 
the  facilities  of  the  Aetna  Explosives  Co.  would  probably  not  be  needed. 

At  this  time  you  were  of  the  opinion  that  there  was  serious  danger 
of  an  extreme  poAvder  shortage,  were  you  not,  Mr.  du  Pont? 
Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir. 


2938  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Hiss.  Do  you  remember  on  what  basis  it  was  thought  that  the 
facilities  of  the  Aetna  Explosives  Co.  would  not  be  needed,  if  there 
was  a  demand  for  powder  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  did  not  know  until  today  that  was  decided - 
upon.    I  had  never  heard  of  it  before. 

Mr.  Hiss  (continuing  reading)  : 

Major  Pierce  suggested  that,  clue  to  the  location  of  the  Aetna  Explosives  Co.'s 
plants,  it  might  be  advisable  to  keep  them  in  operation. 

Colonel  Dunn  and  Mr.  Summers  were  appointed  a  committee  to  look  into- 
this  matter  further. 

Then  the  following  day,  April  17,  a  further  meeting  was  heldy 
extracts  of  the  minutes  of  which  I  offer  for  appropriate  number. 

(The  minutes  referred  to  were  marked  "  Exhibit  Xo.  1120  "  and 
are  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3129.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  states  [reading]  : 

Mr.  Summers  presented  a  verbal  report  on  conferences  held  with  the  repre- 
sentatives of  the  du  Pont  Powder  Co.  in  connection  with  the  advisability  of 
continuing  the  Aetna  Powder  Co.,  who  at  present  are  in  financial  trouble, 
Mr.  Summers  reported  that  the  Aetna  people  had  had  valuable  experience  in 
the  manufacture  of  smokeless  powder.     *     *     * 

In  connection  with  this  matter.  Mr.  Summers  pointed  out  the  very  great 
possibility  of  shortage  in  Army  i-equirements  and  estimates. 

Were  you  of  the  opinion  that  the  then  existing  Army  estimates 
were  inadequate  and  did  not  call  for  a  sufficient  amount  of  powder, 
Mr.  du  Pont  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  The  only  record  I  have  in  April,  I  believe, 
is  a  statement  issued,  I  think,  by  Colonel  Harper,  the  day  after  the 
declaration  of  war  in  April,  which  indicated  that  for  that  year  a 
very  small  amount  of  powder  was  needed. 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  you  felt  that  that  was  an  inadequate  estimate? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Certainly  I  did ;  yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Returning  again  to  the  document  which  has  been  marked 
"  Exhibit  No.  1117  ",  the  memorandum  of  Mr.  Pierce,  you  will  notice 
in  the  first  part  of  the  paragraph  the  following  statement : 

On  April  21,  at  our  request,  a  letter  was  obtained  from  General  Crozier,  of 
the  Ordnance  Department,  which  was  in  the  nature  of  a  passport  for  our 
engineers  to  visit  water  intakes  and  structures  that  were  under  guard  from 
alien  enemies. 

According  to  that  paragraph,  it  was  at  your  request,  and  not  at 
the  War  Department's  request,  that  you  wanted  your  engineers  to 
visit  sites  for  powder  plants.    Is  that  correct  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  believe  that  is  the  case;  yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  show  you  a  letter  dated  April  21,  1917,  addressed  to 
Mr.  F.  A.  Scott,  chairman  of  the  General  Munitions  Board,  and 
signed  by  Mr.  Jay  E.  Hoffer,  lieutenant  colonel,  Ordnance  Depart- 
ment. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  niarked  "Exhibit  No.  1121  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3130.)^ 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  first  paragraph  states  [reading]  : 

1.  x\s  the  personal  representative  of  the  General  Munitions.  Board  in  this 
I)articular  matter,  I  submit  the  following  rejwrt  of  the  conference  held  in  the 
Office  of  the  Chief  of  Ordnance  on  April  20-,  1917.  with  companies  who  are 
manufacturers  of  nitrocellulose  smokeless  powder.  These  companies,  with 
their  representatives  present,  are  named  below : 


1  Entered  Into  further  in  Hearings,  Part  XVII,  p.  4173. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2939 

E.  I.  du  Pont  do  Nemours  &  Co.,  Wilmington,  Del. :  Col.  E.  G.  Buckner.  vice 
president,  Mr.  C.  B.  Landis,  Mr.  H.  F.  Brown,  Maj.  K.  K.  V.  Casey,  and  Mr. 
L.  R.  Beardslee. 

Aetna  Exposives  Co.,  Inc.,  120  Broadway,  New  York  City :  Col.  Odus  C. 
Horney. 

Hercules  Powder  Co.,  Wilmington,  Del. :  Mr.  J.  T.  Skelley,  vice  president. 

Western  Powder  Co.,  Alton,  111. :  Mr.  F.  W.  Olin. 

The  second  paragraph  says  [reading]  : 

2.  These  four  companies  had  been  previously  advised  that  the  present  and 
-anticipated  needs  of  the  Ordnance  Department  of  the  Army  for  smokeless 
powder  durinc:  the  next  12  months  amount  to  26,500,000  pounds  of  caliber  .30 
powder,  42,000,000  pounds  cannon  powder  of  web  thickness  less  than  .0'5,  and 
approximately  10,000,000  pounds  seacoast  cannon  powder  for  6-iuch  guns  and 
above. 

The  total  of  those  three  items,  which  is  not  given  in  tlie  letter,  is 
-78.500,000  pounds. 

The  third  paragraph  contains  estimates  by  the  various  companies 
-as  to  their  possible  production. 

Under  the  heading  "  Caliber  .30  powder  "  it  appears  that  the  du 
Pont  Co.  estimated  that  they  could  produce  1,500,000  pounds  per 
month  from  May  1  to  October  1,  which  wT)uld  be  a  total  of  7,500,000 
pounds,  and  3,175.000  pounds  per  month  commencing  October  1, 
which  would  be  a  total,  going  on  the  12  months'  basis,  of  22,225,000 
pounds,  or  a  grand  total  of  29,725.000  pounds  to  meet  the  total  Army 
requirement  for  .30  caliber  powder. 

Under  the  next  heading,  "  Cannon  powder,  web  thickness  less  than 
,05  ",  the  du  Pont  estimate,  beginning  with  November,  which  is  stated 
on  the  next  page,  was  23,000,000  pounds,  so  that  in  November  and 
December  alone  more  than  the  total  estimated  requirements  of  cannon 
powder  could  be  produced  by  the  du  Pont  Co. 

Under  the  heading  of  "  Seacoast  cannon  powder  "  the  statement  is 
made  [reading]  : 

E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  submitted  a  s«^hedule  under  which  the  entire 
requirements  of  the  Army  could  be  completed  by  January  1918  and  the  entire 
TJavy  requirements  within  the  time  indicated  by  the  representative  of  the 
Bureau  of  Ordnance,  Navy  Department,  as  desirable. 

Under  paragraph  4  it  states  [reading]  : 

The  du  Pont  Co.  is  willing  to  furnish  caliber  .30  powder,  water  dried,  at  60 
■cents  per  pound ;  cannon  powder,  water  dried,  at  47i/2  cents  per  pound ;  and 
air-dried  cannon  powder  at  50  cents  per  pound. 

The  Hercules  Powder  Co.  is  willing  to  furnish  caliber  .30  iwwder,  water  dried, 
at  62V^  cents,  air-dried  at  65  cents  a  pound,  and  cannon  powder  of  web  thick- 
ness less  than  .05,  water  dried,  at  iJYj  cents,  based  upon  present  cost  of  raw 
materials  and  ability  to  procure  the  same. 

Those  raw  materials,  at  least  to  the  extent  of  nitrate  of  soda,  being 
purchased  by  you  at  that  time. 

Turning  over  to  the  next  page,  paragraph  6  states  [reading]  : 

The  companies  were  informed  that  it  is  not  the  present  policy  to  urge  an 
increase  of  capacity  where  existing  free  capacity  is  in  excess  of  estimated 
requirements. 

At  this  same  time  your  engineers  were  being  sent  to  the  field, 
according  to  Mr.  Pierce's  memorandum,  if  you  will  look  at  the  third 
paragraph  of  the  memorandum.  There  you  will  see  the  statement, 
on  April  25 — it  was  on  April  21,  the  date  of  this  letter,  that  the 
permission  was  secured  from  General  Crozier  for  a  passport  for  your 


2940  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

engineers  to  visit  various  places,  and  on  April  25  two  of  your  locating 
enfjineers  were  sent  from  your  Wilmington  office  to  the  field. 

In  other  words,  you  disagreed  with  the  estimate  of  the  Army  at 
that  time? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  May  I  point  out  one  thing  which  you  seem- 
ingly did  not  observe?  Take,  for  instance,  the  cannon-powder 
schedule:  1,650,000  in  June,  3,350,000  in  July,  2,220,000  in  August, 
1,600,000  in  September,  and  1,350,000  in  October,  and  then  it  jumps 
to  23,000,000  in  November.  Of  course,  w^e  had  no  new  plants  coming 
in  which  made  such  a  jump.  It  simply  meant  that  the  foreign 
governments'  contracts  had  expired  and  all  the  powder  going  to  them 
might  have  been  turned  over  to  the  United  States,  but  that  would 
leave  the  Allies  short  on  their  requirements  of  powder,  and  they  w^ere 
depending  on  us. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Paragraph  7  of  the  letter  states,  in  the  last  sentence 
[reading]  : 

These  last  prices  are  lower  than  the  present  cost  of  manufacturing  this 
powder  at  the  Army  powder  factory. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  What  page  is  that,  please  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  last  page  of  the  letter,  just  above  Hr.  Hoffer's  sig- 
nature, the  page  with  Mr.  Hoffer's  signature  on  it. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Paragraph  7  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Paragraph  7.  The  first  two  sentences  state  specific 
prices.     I  will  read  the  wdiole  paragraph : 

In  November  1916  the  Department  placed  orders  for  air-dried  cannon  powder 
at  52  cents  and  .53  cents  a  pound,  and  for  water-dried  cannon  powder  at  51 
cents  and  52  cents  a  pound.  Orders  were  placed  on  April  10,  1917,  for  water- 
dried  cannon  powder  at  47%  cents  a  pound  and  air-dried  powder  at  50  cents  a 
pound.  These  last  prices  are  lower  than  the  present  cost  of  manufacturing 
this  powder  at  the  Army  powder  factory. 

Did  you  at  a  later  time,  Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont,  see  an  estimate  pre- 
pared by  Indian  Head,  the  Navy  producing  plant,  as  to  cost  of 
powder  at  about  this  same  time  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  believe  there  was  one ;  j^es,  sir ;  showing,  I 
think,  32  cents  per  pound. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Yes. 

Mr.  Pierre  di^  Pont.  But  I  think  that  was  the  liare  labor  and  ma- 
terial cost  and  did  not  include  many  items  that  the  ordinary  manu- 
facturer would  have  to  include,  but  I  am  not  sure  of  that  because  no 
details  were  given. 

Mr.  Hiss.  We  will  refer  to  that  specifically  later  on. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  In  that  connection,  would  it  be  proper  to 
ask  what  the  actual  cost  at  Indian  Head  was  on  powder  wdiich  they 
produced  at  this  time? 

Mr.  Hiss.  We  can  take  it  up  now,  if  you  would  like. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  thought  it  might  be  very  interesting,  be- 
cause I  understood  them  to  say  they  used  nine-tenths  of  1  pound  of 
alcohol  per  pound  of  powder,  and  during  the  war  period  we  whittled 
it  down  to  three-tenths  of  a  pound,  and  the  difference  between  nine 
and  three  made  a  differential  of  six-tenths  on  that  one  item,  on  which 
w^e  had  that  advantage,  I  know. 

Mr.  Hiss.  If  you  do  not  mind,  let  us  wait  until  we  reach  the  date 
when  it  was  actually  submitted,  which  was  a  couple  of  months  later. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2941 

Attached  to  this  letter  from  Mr.  Hoffer  is  a  proposed  draft  of  a 
letter  to  the  Chief  of  Ordnance.     The  first  paragraph  reads : 

The  General  Munitions  Board,  having  been  verbally  requested  by  you  to 
determine  what  is  a  fair  and  just  price  to  be  paid  by  the  Government  to  the 
manufacturers  of  smokeless  powder  required  to  be  made  for  the  Army  during 
the  next  IS  months,  and  having  made  what  is  considered  a  satisfactory  investi- 
gation, recommends  to  you  as  fair  and  just  the  prices  shown  on  the  following 
table,  wliich  prices  are  to  be  exclusive  of  the  cost  of  container  and  f.o.b. 
contractor's  works — 

No.  1  are  substantially  the  prices  stated  before — namely,  GO  cents 
a  pound  for  caliber  .30  powder,  water  dried,  and  62  cents  if  air  dried ; 
47i/>  cents  for  cannon  powder,  if  water  dried,  and  50  cents  if  air 
dried ;  and  50  cents  a  pound  for  seacoast  cannon  powder,  if  air  dried, 
and  no  quotation  for  water  dried. 

The  next  document  in  the  same  folder  does  not  bear  a  signature. 
If  you  could  look  that  up  for  us,  Colonel,  we  would  like  to  know 
whether  or  not  the  letter  was  actually  adopted  on  April  27,  1917. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Any  identifying  numbers  on  it? 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  might  have  a  look  at  it  [handing  paper  to  witness]. 

Keferring  back  again  to  Mr.  Pierce's  memorandum  [reading]  : 

Between  April  25  and  July  12  these  engineers  covered  Tennessee,  parts  of 
Alabama,  Kentucky.  Illinois,  Indiana,  West  Virginia,  and  the  southwestern  part 
of  Virginia  in  search  of  suitable  locations  for  smokeless-powder  plants. 

That  was  at  the  same  time  that  recommendations  had  been  made 
in  the  letter  of  April  21,  1917,  previously  referred  to,  paragraph  6 
reads : 

The  companies  were  informed  that  it  is  not  the  present  policy  to  xirge  an 
increase  of  capacity  where  existing  free  capacity  is  in  excess  of  estimated 
requirements. 

Then,  referring  to  the  bottom  of  the  paragraph  of  "  Exhibit  No. 
1117  ",  the  memorandum  by  Mr.  Pierce,  we  find  the  following: 

You  are  familiar  witli  the  work  done  by  Colonel  Buckner  during  approxi- 
mately this  entire  time  in  endeavoring  to  bring  the  serious  situation  regarding 
lack  of  powder-nianulacturing  capacity  before  the  proper  authorities  in  Wash- 
ington, this  we  understand  lieing  fnuilly  accomplished  by  the  1st  of  Octolier. 

He  was  the  vice  president  of  your  company  in  charge  of  military 
sales  at  that  time  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Po^T.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  June  4,  1917,  according  to  the  minutes  of  your 
executive  committee,  there  was  a  discussion  but  no  action  in  regard 
to  increasing  military-powder'  capacity.  Wherever  I  refer  to  them 
will  you  get  the  copies? 

Mr.  Eliason.  You  do  not  have  that? 

Mr.  Hiss.  We  did  not  get  the  complete  statement,  and  when 
furnished  will  be  used  to  A^erify  wdiatever  I  may  read  by  way  of 
paraphrase.^ 

Mr.  Eliasox.  The  date  was  what? 

Mr.  Hiss.  June  4,  1917.  A  resolution  was  passed  to  have  the  engi- 
neering department  request  an  appropriation  to  build  additional 
smokeless-powder  capacity  at  Carneys  Point,  Haskell,  and  Parlin. 
They  were  three  of  the  smokeless-powder  plants? 


1.  The  copies  of  executive  committee  minutes  were  later  supplied  by  the  du  I'oiit  Co. 
and  appear  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3161. 


2942  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  to  use  ^n-cotton  capacity  at  Hopewell  not  now 
being  used  of  about  5,000,000  pounds  a  month. 

Do  you  remember  this  particular  incident  to  which  this  refers? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  No  ;  I  do  not,  but  I  have  no  doubt  it  is  true. 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  June  7  the  executive  committee  resolved  to  spend 
$3,000,000  to  increase  the  smokeless-powder  capacity,  it  being  stated 
that  $1,000,000  would  have  to  be  spent  for  renovation  anyway,  and 
further  resolved  to  spend  perhaps  $1,000,000  more,  if  the  cost  can 
be  amortized  over  orders  which  the  Allies  may  be  willing  to  give, 
should  they  deem  it  advisable  and  desirable  to  have  this  increased 
capacity  to  take  care  of  5,000,000  pounds  excess  at  Hopewell. 

Colonel  Buckner  reported  227,760,000  pounds  which  had  been  of- 
fered to  the  French  and  British  and  had  not  yet  been  sold  and 
recommended  against  additional  construction  until  orders  were  ac- 
tually in  hand. 

On  June  26  the  committee  decided,  or  it  was  learned  that  a  con- 
tract has  been  signed  to  furnish  the  Hercules  Co.  with  2,000,000 
pounds  of  gun  cotton  a  month,  which  took  care  of  2  million  of  the  5 
million  being  produced  at  Hopewell.  It  was  therefore  decided  to 
reduce  the  capacity  to  3,000,000  pounds  of  gun  cotton  as  a  basis. 

Mr.  du  Pont,  it  seems  from  this  account  that  at  this  particular 
time  your  company  was  not  desirous,  as  a  business  risk,  of  entering 
into  large  expansion  in  the  smokeless-powder  field. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  should  say  not. 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  did  not  feel  that  it  was  a  justifiable  business  risk 
for  the  du  Pont  Co.  to  assume  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  We  had  only  two  or  three  customers  and  if 
they  were  not  ready  to  take  the  powder,  there  was  no  use  building 
the  factory  for  them. 

Mr.  Hiss.  But  you  stated  you  felt  convinced  and  had  been  urging 
upon  the  War  Department  the  fact  that  there  was  likely  to  be  a 
great  shortage  of  powder? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  were  not  sufficiently  convinced  of  the  estimate 
to  justify  investing  money  of  your  own  in  building  additional 
plant  capacity? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  It  was  the  War  Department's  problem  to 
determine  the  question,  and  we  had  no  control  of  it. 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  June  30,  1917,  General  Crozier,  then  Chief  of  Ord- 
nance, wrote  to  ]Mi".  Scott,  chairman  of  the  General  Munitions 
Board,  a  letter  which  I  offer  for  appropriate  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1122  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3133.)^ 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  states,  in  part  [reading]  : 

I  have  recently  had  a  conference  with  the  representatives  of  the  E.  I.  du 
Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.,  who  have  urged  that  the  price  of  the  caliber  .30  powder 
manufactured  after  December  31,  1917,  and  the  price  of  the  cannon  powder 
manufactured  after  February  28,  1918,  be  increa^d  2  cents  a  pound  to  meet 
the  increase  in  the  price  of  manufacture,  especially  due  to  the  increased  cost 
of  raw  materials.  These  increased  prices  are  less  than  the  prices  at  which 
the  powder  can  be  manufactured  at  the  Army  powder  factory  at  Plcatinny 
Arsenal,  and  from  our  careful  observation  of  the  prices  of  raw  materials, 
I  am  satisfied  that  the  increased  price  after  the  dates  indicated  is  fair  and 
just,  as  compared  with  the  prices  recommended  in  my  letter  of  AprU  21,  1917, 
and  concurred  in  by  the  General  Munitions  Board. 


1  Entered  into  further  in  Hearings,  Part  XVII,  p.  4174. 


f  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2943 

He  apparently  refers  to  the  letter  signed  by  Mr.  Hoffer. 
[Reading:] 

I  am,  therefore,  placing  orders  which  obligate  the  Government  to  pay  the 
increased  prices  referred  to  above,  and  in  the  procurement  of  additional  quan- 
tities it  may  be  necessary  to  make  further  concessions  in  price  for  the  same 
causes. 

Again,  there  is  no  reference  to  the  Indian  Head  costs,  which,  so 
far  as  I  know,  were  not  available,  the  momorandum  on  that  being 
dated  in  October. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Might  I  ask  whether  you  have  the  letter  of 
April  7  from  the  War  Department  addressed  to  the  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 
Nemours  Co.? 

Is  that  the  one  which  you  read  from  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  do  not  recall  it. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  would  like  to  identify  it,  if  I  may.  I  have 
a  memorandum  of  such  letter,  giving  the  requirements  of  the  Army 
and  Navy,  and  I  am  not  sure  that  it  corresponds  with  what  you  read. 
Would  you  mind  looking  at  that,  because,  if  it  does  not  correspond, 
I  would  like  to  have  it  put  in  the  record,  until  we  can  determine  the 
question. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  think  the  top  one  is  the  same  [examining  paper]. 

May  I  just  read  the  document  which  has  been  put  in  evidence? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  the  quantities  were  the  same,  but  I 
am  not  sure. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  figure  given  for  caliber  .30  was  26,500,000. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Right. 

Mr.  Hiss.  For  cannon  powder,  web  thickness  less  than  .05,  42,- 
000,000,  and  for  seacoast  powder,  10,000,000.     Yours  is  9,000,000. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  9,480,000. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  is  for  12  months. 

Mr.  Hiss.  For  12  months  beginning  April  1. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  There  are  no  Navy  requirements  there. 

Mr.  Hiss.  No,  sir;  there  are  no  Navy  requirements  there. 

Again  referring  back  to  Mr.  Pierce's  memorandum,  between  July 
12  and  July  28  your  company  was  working  up  data  collected  by 
the  field  engineers  for  making  a  report  on  the  same.    From 

July  28  to  August  3,  two  engineers  were  in  the  field  reconsidering  locations 
and  a  definite  recommendation  was  made  for  the  selection  of  the  Charleston 
site. 

The  latter  became  the  site  of  the  plant  known  as  Nitro,  did  it  not  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Hiss.  During  this  time  from  February  7,  shortly  after  the 
breaking  off  of  diplomatic  relations,  down  to  August  3,  when  the 
recommendation  was  made  for  the  selection  of  the  Charleston  site, 
it  would  appear  that  that  was  primarily  in  order  to  make  a  site  for 
a  plant  to  be  constructed  by  the  Government  rather  than  a  plant  for 
your  own  construction.     Is  that  correct? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  It  might  have  been  either. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  mean  a  plant  to  be  financed  by  the  du  Pont  Co.,  when 
I  say  a  plant  of  your  own  construction. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  am  not  certain  that  there  was  any  deter- 
mination as  to  which  it  would  be,  but  it  seems  rather  immaterial. 


2944  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Hiss.  It  would  appear  from  the  references  to  the  executive 
committee's  minutes  that  the  company  was  not  desirous  of  embark- 
ing upon  increasing  its  own  capacity  on  any  very  large  scale. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  that  is  true,  certainly. 

Mr.  Hiss.  But,  nevertheless,  thorough  examinations  were  being 
made  throughout  the  country  for  sites  for  a  large  powder  plant  on 
July  30,  1917,  as  shown  by  a  letter  from  E.  G.  Buckner  to  Mr.  Scott, 
chairman  of  the  Munitions  Board,  which  I  offer  for  appropriate 
number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1123  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3133.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  Page  2,  the  second  paragraph,  states   [reading]  : 

There  are  in  existence  a  small  number  of  competitors  of  the  du  Pont  Co. — 
we  do  not  know  whether  their  capacity  has  l)een  sold  or  not — but  we  are 
inclined  to  believe  that  they  probably  have  some  luisold  capacity.  We  do  not 
think  it  will  amount  to  a  large  quantity  compared  to  the  total  requirements. 

Your  company  was,  far  and  away,  the  preponderant  producer  of 
smokeless  powder  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  On  account  of  orders  of  the  Allies. 
Mr.  Hiss.  The  next  paragraph  states  [reading]  : 

The  only  suggestion  we  can  make  is  that  steps  be  taken  at  once  to  augment 
the  siujply  of  powder  by  building  additional  plants.  To  this  end  Ave  have 
prepared  plans  by  wliich  3,000.000'  pounds  per  month  additional  capacity  can 
be  provided  beginning  with  the  month  of  January  1918,  which  would  require 
an  amortization  charge  aggregating  approximately  $4,500,000. 

That  is  probably  the  3,000,000  referred  to  in  the  executive  com- 
mittee minutes.  Gun  cotton  is  required  pound  for  pound  for  smoke- 
less powder,  is  it  not? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  About  that. 

Mr.  Hiss  (reading)  : 

Beyond  this,  we  could  build  plants  to  supply  an  additional  10,000,000  pounds 
of  powder  per  month,  but  this  capacity  could  not  be  made  available  in  less 
than  12  months'  time. 

Tlie  reference  to  an  amortization  charge,  Mr.  du  Pont^ — if  the 
company  had  decided  to  expand,  there  would  have  been  an  amortiza- 
tion charge  against  the  price  of  the  powder  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  So  that  the  fact  that  you  have  referred  to  two  or  three 
times  in  the  hearings,  that  no  amortization  charges  were  made 
against  the  United  States,  was  simply  because  the  plants  happened 
to  have  been  already  built  at  a  time  that  the  United  States  was 
requiring  powder  in  large  quantities?  You  would  have  had  to 
charge  them  otherwise  ?    Is  that  correct  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes.  The  charge — in  this  case — was  finally 
reduced,  later  on,  to  9  cents  per  pound  amortization. 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  the  3,000,000  pounds  excess  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  It  was  a  40,000,000-pound  contract,  with 
a  9-cent  amortization  charge. 

Mr.  Hiss.  To  be  furnished  over  a  period  of  months  out  of  the 
new  3,000,000-pound  capacity? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  contract  was  closed  in  1917.  I  think 
you  will  come  to  that  later. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  do  not  have  any  reference  to  it.  I  wanted  to  make 
sure  that  the  3,000,000  pounds  additional  capacity,  to  which  we  re- 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2945 

f erred  before,  was  later  made  the  subject  of  a  contract  calling  for 
a  total  delivery  of  40,000.000  pounds  over  a  sufficient  number  of 
months,  to  be  determined  by  dividing  3  into  40,  with  a  9  cents  per 
pound  amortization  charge. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir;  I  do  not  know  whether  the  con- 
tract covered  a  greater  period  or  not. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  The  30  cents  applies  to  a  10-million-pound 
per  month  capacity. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  There  are  two  ideas :  The  9  cents  does  not 
apply  to  the  first  one. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Of  the  first  two  sentences  which  I  read,  the  second  one 
refers  to  the  amortization  charge  which  I  had  in  mind.    That  says: 

An  amortization  charge  of  $4,500,000  for  3,000,000  pounds  per  month  capacity. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir, 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  does  not  say  specifically  how  many  cents  per 
pound.    I  think  it  is  9  cents  a  pound  on  50,000,000  pounds. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Nine  cents  a  pound  on  40,000,000  pounds, 
approximately  $3,600,000. 

Mr.  Hiss.  But,  as  indicated  in  the  executive  committee  minutes, 
that  was  for  an  excess  capacity  you  already  had  of  guncotton. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Right. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Three  million  pounds  of  which  was  unsalable. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  is  correct ;  yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Did  you  have  any  other  market  for  that  3,000,000 
pounds  at  that  time? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  not  at  that  time. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Then,  again,  on  August  9  there  is  a  letter  from  Mr. 
Buckner  to  Mr.  Scott,  which  encloses  a  letter  from  Mr.  Buckner 
to  a  man  who  is  apparentlv  a  Russian  purchasing  officer,  refusing 
an  order  for  18,000,000  to  20,000,000  pounds  of  smokeless  powder, 
and  emphasizing  the  fact  that  there  is  great  need  for  additional 
capacity. 

(The  letters  referred  to  were  marked  "Exhibit  No.  1124"  and  are 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3135.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  If  you  will  refer  to  the  letter  of  October  4,  1917,  from 
Colonel  Hoffer,  the  Ordnance  Department,  to  the  War  Industries 
Board,  you  will  notice  in  the  first  paragraph  that  the  new  require- 
ments estimated  by  the  Army  are  now  315,000.000  pounds,  prior  to 
September  1,  1918,  approximately  12  months  from  October  4  to  Sep- 
tember 1,  actuallv  less  than  12  months,  whereas  the  previous  one  of 
April  21  had  beeii  a  total  of  78,500,000  pounds. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  1125"  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3136.) 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  There  was  that  intermediate  letter  of  July  30, 
"  Exhibit  No.  1123,"  which  gave  123,000,000  for  the  Army  and  Navy. 
I  think  you  read  that,  did  you  not? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Was  that  on  a  12  months'  basis? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  am  not  sure. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  have  the  record  of  that. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  My  memoranda  does  not  show  the  time. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Referring  back  again  to  Mr.  Pierce's  memorandum, 
"  Exhibit  No.  1117,"  I  call  your  attention  to  the  statement  that 


2946  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  123,000,000  was  unfilled  orders  on  our 
books  at  the  time.    I  presume  they  covered  not  more  than  12  months, 
Mr.  Hiss.  I  refer  again  to  Mr.  Pierce's  statement  that — 

You  are  familiar  with  the  work  done  by  Colonel  Buckner  during  approxi- 
mately this  entire  time  in  endeavoring  to  bring  the  serious  situation  regarding 
lack  of  powder  manufacturing  capacity  before  the  proper  authorities  in  Wash- 
ington, this  we  understand  being  finally  accomplished  about  the  first  of  October, 

I  assume  this  letter  of  October  4  represents  the  final  acceptance  by 
the  War  Department  of  your  views  as  to  the  need  of  increased 
powder  capacity. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  would  not  say  that,  no,  because  their  deter- 
minations certainly  were  not  made  on  our  recommendations,  although 
what  we  said  may  have  had  something  to  do  in  the  determination. 
But  would  it  be  fair  to  state  at  this  time  that  we  had  the  enor- 
mous powder-manufacturing  capacity  that  had  been  prepared  for  the 
Allies,  and  the  War  Department  would  certainly  learn  that  part  of 
that  was  available  for  use,  and  it  was  quite  a  factor  in  the  whole  sit- 
uation. I  do  not  know  how  they  figured  it,  but  certainly  those  plants 
were  available  for  the  United  States  at  any  moment  if  they  had 
chosen  to  take  over  the  plants.  Naturally  that  was  a  great  safeguard 
in  the  situation,  the  existence  of  those  plants.  It  was  a  tremendous 
safeguard  in  the  whole  situation. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Referring  back  again  to  Mr.  Pierce's  memorandum,  you 
will  notice  that  on  the  same  date  of  Mr.  Hoffer's  memorandum,  to 
which  I  have  just  referred,  that  was  addressed  to  the  War  Industries 
Board  with  a  new  estimate,  on  that  date,  according  to  Mr.  Pierce, 
your  company  started  to  option  property. 

.  On  October  5  this  optioning  was  stopped  on  account  of  the  high  prices  of  land. 
On  October  22  to  28  one  of  our  engineers,  in  company  with  Col.  J.  C.  Nichols, 
of  the  Ordnance  Department,  visited  the  various  sites  and  obtained  the  approvai 
of  the  Ordnance  Department  through  Colonel  Nichols  of  two  of  the  sites 
selected  by  us. 

One  of  those  w\as  the  Nashville  site,  and  the  other  was  the  Charles- 
ton site? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Right. 

OLD    hickory    contract ORIGINAL,    NEGOTIATIONS    BETWEEN    ORDNANCE 

DEPARTMENT  AND  DU  PONT  CO.  FOR  CONSTRUCTION  OF  OLD  HICKORY 

Mr.  Hiss  (reading)  : 

On  October  23  our  real-estate  department  resumed  optioning  the  Charleston 
site. 

Meanwhile,  on  October  8,  1917,  a  letter  was  written  to  the  Chief 
of  Ordnance  on  the  letter  head  of  your  company,  signed  by  you,  I 
believe. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  1126"  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3137.)^ 

Mr.  Hiss.  No.    I  think  this  is  Mr.  Buckner.    I  beg  your  pardon. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  there  was  a  letter  signed  by  me  on 
October  8. 


1  "  Exhibit  No.  1126  "  was  entered  into  further  in  Hearings,  Part  XIV,  on  p.  3168. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2947 

Mr.  Hiss.  This  particular  one,  that  just  shown  you,  is  signed  by 
Mr.  Buckner.     It  says : 

lu  accordance  with  your  request  of  October  3 — ■ 

The  Chief  of  Ordnance  at  that  time  was  General  Crozier,  was  he 
not,  Colonel  Harris  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  General  Crozier,  yes. 

Mr.  Hiss  (reading)  : 

we  submit  the  following  proposition  to  the  Government : 

Whenever  the  words  "  du  Pont  C<>."  are  used  in  this  proposal,  they  shall 
be  taken  to  mean  either  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.,  a  corporation,  or  a 
company  to  be  organized  by  it  for  the  purpose  of  carrying  out  this  proposal 
if  accepted. 

Was  the  idea  of  a  subsidiary  corporation  to  build  this  factory  part 
of  the  du  Pont  plan,  that  is,  your  conception  of  the  proposition,  from 
the  beginning? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  This  October  8  was  preceded  by  a  letter  of 
Colonel  Hoffer  of  October  3,  making  certain  general  recommenda- 
tions as  to  an  understanding  of  how  this  procedure  was  to  take  place, 
and  we  gave  on  the  day  following  memorandum  of  what  we  should 
do,  which  was  elaborated  into  this  October  8  proposition. 

Mr.  Hiss.  At  whose  suggestion  was  the  use  of  a  subsidiary  com- 
pany introduced  into  the  negotiations? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  At  ours. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Do  you  remember  the  reason  for  that  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  The  reason  was  that  it  was  for  the  first  time 
proposed  that  we  should  act  as  the  agents  of  the  Government.  We 
did  not  know  at  all  what  that  would  mean  in  the  way  of  obligations, 
so  we  decided  that  the  best  thing  was  to  organize  a  separate  company 
so  as  to  settle  once  and  for  all  the  relations  between  the  construction 
and  operating  company  that  we  proposed  and  the  United  States 
Government. 

Mr.  Hiss.  This  was  a  large  proposal? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  It  was  very  large. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Involving,  if  operated  for  12  months,  perhaps  as  much 
as  $300,000,000? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  that  was  the  estimate. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Your  estimated  cost  was  something  like  $90,000,000  at 
the  beginning? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes ;  something  like  that. 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  the  operating  costs  over  a  period  of  12  months 
might  make  up  the  rest? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Do  you  remember  what  the  capitalization  of  the  sub- 
sidiary company  was  that  you  set  up  in  order  to  carry  out  this 
proposition  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  it  was  comparatively  small.  Do 
you  know? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  recall  the  amount.  You  have  a 
record  of  it  there. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  The  result  of  that  was  a  guaranty  of  the 
operations  of  the  subsidiary  company  by  our  parent  company,  the 
E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  I  think  that  covered  the  question 
of  capitalization. 

83876 — 35— PT  13 4 


2948  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  capitalization  as  appears  from  the  records  of  the 
subsidiary  company  was  5,000  voting  shares  issued  at  a  dollar  a 
share,  total  capitalization  $5,000.  That  is  really  all  that  the  du 
Pont  Co.  risked  in  entering  into  this  very  large  construction  plan. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  It  was  the  intention  of  that  subsidiary  com- 
pany to  cover  the  question  of  risk,  excepting  that  the  parent 
company  guaranteed  that  the  subsidiary  company  would  carry  out 
the  contract. 

Mr.  Hiss.  There  was  no  risk  involved  in  that  guaranty,  though, 
Mr.  du  Pont,  was  there  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  What  was  the  idea  of  asking  for  it  if 
there  was  not  ?     There  must  be  some  cause  for  asking  for  a  guaranty. 

Mr.  Hiss.  If  you  were  sued  for  any  loss  due  to  any  explosions, 
that  guaranty  would  not  affect  your  liability,  would  it? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  In  that  particular  case  the  Government  pro- 
posed to  hold  us  harmless,  but  I  think  the  whole  purpose  was  to 
settle  this  question  of  direct  liability. 

Mr.  Hiss.  May  I  restate  the  original  question? 

Your  total  capital  which  was  risked  in  this  adventure  amounted 
to  $5,000,  did  it  not? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  am  not  so  sure  about  that,  because  it  is  a 
question  of  what  the  guaranty  meant. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Perhaps  we  can  determine  that  as  we  go  along. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Mr.  Gregg  reminds  me  of  it.  I  think 
there  was  also  this  question  of  the  vouchers  and  the  accounts  of  the 
company,  so  that  we  would  not  get  all  balled  up  with  our  own 
accounts  as  to  what  was  what.  We  made  a  separate  company,  and 
the  Government  auditors  checked  everything  that  was  paid  on  ac- 
count. That  made  us  an  entirely  separate  organization,  different 
rooms,  buildings,  and  everything. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  paragraph  3  of  Mr.  Buckner's  letter  of  October  8, 
toward  the  end  of  that,  is  this  statement : 

It  being  understood  that  in  order  to  expedite  construction  and  insure  satis- 
factory and  economical  operation,  tlie  du  Pont  Co.  sliall  be  free  to  exercise 
its  judgment  as  to  the  plans,  materials,  and  equipment  to  be  used  in  the 
construction  of  said  plants  and  in  the  arrangement  thereof. 

Referring  to  the  first  part  of  that  same  paragraph : 

The  du  Pont  Co.  proposes  to  act  as  agent  for  the  Government. 

Is  not  this  rather  wide  authority  for  an  agent,  the  authority  to 
exercise  its  judgment  as  to  plans,  materials,  and  equipment?  S'o  that 
the  ])hrase  "  agent "  does  not  mean  the  usual  supervision  of  a  princi- 
pal over  an  agent,  it  merely  means  that  you  were  carrying  it  out  at 
the  Government's  behest ;  is  that  correct  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  And  at  the  Government's  expense,  according 
to  the  proposed  contract. 

Mr.  Hiss.  But  not  the  Government  control  over  these  particular 
items  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  is  right. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Paragraph  4  [reading  "  Exhibit  No.  1126"]  : 

Any  expenditure  or  ol)ligation  arising  or  growing  out  of  the  construftion  or 
operation  of  said  plants  made  or  incurred  by  the  du  Pont  Co.,  together  with 
any  and  all  loss  by  accident,  fire,  flood,  or  explosion,  arising  or  growing  out 
of  the  construction  or  operation  of  said  plants,  will  be  for  the  account  of  the 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2949 

<Jovernment,  who  shall  at  all  tinies  indemnify  and  hold  the  dn  Pont  Co. 
harmless  therefrom,  and  the  Government  will  at  all  times  during  the  con- 
.struction  and  operation  of  said  plants  furnish  the  du  Pont  Co.  sufhcient  funds 
to  enable  it  to  meet  and  pay  all  bills. 

The  Government  was  to  finance  the  operation  as  well  as  to  pay  the 

<J0St? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Going  back  again  to  what  I  just  read : 

Any  expenditure  or  obligation  arising  or  growing  out  of  the  construction  or 
operatidu  of  said  plants  made  or  incurre<l  by  the  du  Pont  Co.,  together  with  any 
and  all  loss  by  accident,  fire,  flood,  or  explosion,  arising  or  growing  out  of  the 
■construction  and  operation  of  said  plants,  will  be  for  the  account  of  the 
■Government  who  shall  at  all  times  indenuiify  and  hold  the  du  Pont  Co.  harm- 
less therefrom — 

Just  what  effect  does  that  have  on  any  guaranties  that  might  have 
been  given  by  the  du  Pont  Co.,  since  in  return  the  Government 
leguarantees  you? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  That  sounds  very  well  on  paper.  I  suppose 
irom  an  attorney's  point  of  view  it  looks  bullet-proof.  But  you 
know  many  things  can  happen  on  a  deal  like  this,  and  many  expenses 
might  not  be  allowed. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Paragraph  5,  the  next  page  [reading]  : 

The  Government  will  within  5  days  thereafter — 

That  refers  to  the  payment  of  expenditures  on  the  first  of  each 
anonth — 

pay  to  the  du  Pont  Co.  as  its  charges  for  the  following  services,  the  following 
percentages  on  the  total  amount  of  such  expenditures  made  during  the  previous 
month,  viz.  for  drawing  plans  and  engineering  supervision  from  the  Wilming- 
ton office,  5  percent ;  for  purchasing  and  urging  deliveries  of  material  by 
Wilmington  office,  2  percent :  for  compensation,  including  administi'ation  and 
other  services  rendered  from  the  Wilmington  office,  8  percent. 

That  is  a  total  of  15  percent  of  cost,  which,  in  a  $90,000,000  con- 
tract, would  come  to  $13,500,000  for  the  construction. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Have  you  there  the  details  of  how  that  was 
made  up? 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  was  made  up  as  I  have  just  been  reading  from 
paragraph  5  of  this  letter. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  There  were  details  submitted  as  to  what  part 
of  that  15  percent  was  out  of  pocket,  and  our  estimates  varied  from 
making  no  profit  to  a  maximum  of  61^  percent.  The  difference  was 
actually  out  of  pocket. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Was  not  that  submitted  at  a  somewhat  later  date,  on 
October  8? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Before  the  contract  Avas  written.  But  the 
15  percent  w^as  based  on  that  estimate,  although  it  was  not  so  ex- 
pressed in  this  letter. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  think  that  document  will  be  put  in  a  little  later,  Mr. 
du  Pont. 

Paragraph  7  of  "  Exhibit  No.  1126  "  says  [reading]  : 

This  offer  to  act  as  agent  for  the  Government  in  and  about  the  matters  set 
forth  herein  is  conditioned  that  as  units  of  manufacture  are  completed  and 
ready  for  oi)eration,  the  Government  will  appoint  the  du  Pont  Co.  its  agent  to 
operate  said  units  or  plants  for  at  least  IS  months  after  their  completion,  if 
their  plants  are  operated. 


2950  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Going  to  the  second  part  of  paragraph  eight — 

The  Government  will  pay  all  the  costs  and  expenses  of  the  operation  of  said 
plants  as  and  when  they  become  due  and  payable,  and  in  addition  thereto  will, 
oni  or  before  the  15th  day  of  each  month,  pay  to  the  du  Pont  Co.  5  cents  per 
pound — 

Five  cents  a  pound.  The  estimated  output  of  this  plant  was 
1,000,000  pounds  of  powder  a  day.  Five  cents  a  pound  on  a  million 
pounds  a  day  was  the  fee  for  operating,  and  the  Government  guar- 
anteed that  that  fee  would  be  paid  for  18  months. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  If  you  will  read  right  on  on  that,  sir,  in 
your  paragraph  8,  it  says : 

Five  cents  per  pound  on  all  powder  manufactured  and  packed  during  the  pre- 
vious month  as  payment  for  main  office  supervision,  administrative  and  pur- 
chasing expense,  and  compensation  to  du  Pont  Co. 

It  is  not  profit,  that  5  cents  a  pound.  It  included  the  profit,  but 
there  were  other  expenses. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Namely,  main-office  supervision,  administrative  and  pur- 
chasing expense,  and  compensation. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  other  words,  overhead  in  general,  and  compensation. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  There  is  a  further  provision  that  in  addition  to  5  cents 
a  pound  [reading]  : 

Should  the  total  mill  cost  of  water-dried  smokeless  powder,  exclusive  of  boxes, 
amortization,  and  depreciation  of  plants,  but  including  all  ingredients,  labor  in 
operation,  labor  and  materials  in  repairs,  power,  transportation,  general-works 
expense,  works  accidents,  plant  superintendence,  be  less  than  44i/^  cents  per 
pound  in  any  month,  the  Government  will  pay  the  du  Pont  Co.  one-half  the 
difference  between  the  said  mill  cost  and  44^2  cents  per  pound. 

In  other- words,  if  you  reduced  the  cost  below  441/2  cents  a  pound, 
in  addition  to  the  5  cents  a  pound,  you  got  half  of  the  savings? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  We  got  half  of  the  savings. 

Mr,  Hiss.  So  the  5  cents  a  pound  does  not  represent  the  total  pos- 
sible fee  for  operation  and  overhead  expenses. 

On  the  next  page  [reading]  : 

In  case  the  Government  requires  a  part  of  the  powder  to  be  air-dried,  the 
mill  cost  basis,  on  such  air-dried  iwwder  will  be  increased  2^^  cents  per  pound. 

That  is,  if  it  is  to  be  air-dried,  you  get  half  the  saving  whenever 
you  reduce  it  below  47  cents  ? 
Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Right. 
Mr.  Hiss.  Then  paragraph  10  [reading  "  Exhibit  No.  1126  "]  : 

The  Government  shall  have  the  privilege  of  canceling  the  agency  at  any  time 
during  the  construction  of  these  plants,  in  which  event  the  du  Pont  Co.  shall 
receive  as  compensation  in  lieu  of  the  compensation  herein  provided  1  percent 
of  $90,000,000  for  each  month— 

That  is  $900,000  a  month— 

for  each  month  or  section  thereof  elapsing  between  the  date  of  the  signing  of 
said  agency  contract  and  the  date  of  the  cancelation  thereof  as  aforesaid,  which 
percentage  it  is  hereby  agreed  covers  full  and  fair  compensation  to  the  du  Pont 
Co.  for  its  service  in  and  about  the  construction  of  said  plants,  but  in  no  event 
shall  this  compensation  be  in  excess  of  15  percent  of  $90,000,000. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  other  words,  $13,500,000  was  the  maximum  set  in  the 
event  of  cancelation. 


MUriTIONS    INDUSTRY  2951 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  was  for  5  months,  was  it  not?  That 
covered  only  a  5-month  period? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Not  at  this  stage  of  the  negotiations,  Mr.  du  Pont. 

Colonel  Harris,  that  proposition  which  has  just  been  read  is  by 
and  large  a  cost  plus  contract,  is  it  not?  Cost  of  construction  plus 
15  percent? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Cost  plus  a  fee.  The  cost  plus  contracts  are 
usually  understood  to  mean  cost  plus  a  percentage  of  cost. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  construction  was  cost  plus  a  percentage  of  the  cost. 
It  was  cost  plus  15  percent  of  the  construction  cost,  so  that  the  higher 
the  construction  cost  the  higher  the  fee.  On  the  operation  it  was  a 
flat  5  cents  a  pound,  plus  half  of  any  saving. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  May  I  observe  here  that  this  suggestion  was 
made  within  5  days  of  the  first  notice  that  we  were  expected  to  do 
anything  of  the  kind,  and  naturally  would  be  quite  incomplete? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Had  you  not,  Mr.  du  Pont,  in  accordance  with  Mr. 
Pierce's  memorandum  been  considering  the  possibility  of  the  con- 
struction of  a  powder  plant  for  some  time? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  We  were  considering  the  possibility,  but  the 
first  definite  notice  we  had  was  Colonel  Hoffer's  letter  of  October  3, 
1917,  find  we  made  him  a  proposition  very  much  in  this  outline  the 
day  after  covering  substantially  the  same  proposition,  the  same 
$300,000,000  proposition,  overnight.  Naturally  it  could  not  be  very 
definitelv  worked  out. 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  October  11,  1917,  at  a  meeting  of  the  War  Indus- 
tries Board,  Mr.  Scott,  who  was  chairman,  reported  that — 

the  Chief  of  Ordance  will  recommend  to  the  Secretary  of  War  that  the  du  Pont 
Co.  be  permitted  to  expend  $3,000,000  to  create  additional  facilities  to  produce 
3,500,000  more  pounds  per  month  of  smokeless  powder. 

That  is  the  same  increase  that  we  have  spoken  of  before  ? 
Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes. 
Mr.  Hiss  (reading)  : 

Likewise  that  he  had  practically  decided  to  recommend  that  they  be  permitted 
to  expend  additional  $90,000,000  to  double  their  smokeless-powder  capacity,  and 
that  the  Chief  of  Ordnance  expected  to  recommend  this  without  bringing  the 
matter  before  the  War  Industries  Board. 

That  refers  to  the  proposal  of  October  8,  3  days  before  this  meet- 
ing? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  was  to  expend  an  additional  $90,000,000  of  funds 
to  be  advanced  to  you  currently  by  the  Government,  with  payment  of 
costs  by  the  Government  plus  the  fees  that  we  have  described.  It  is 
described  here  as  merely  doubling  your  smokeless  powder  capacity, 
just  as  the  $3,600,000,  which  was  to  come  from  the  du  Pont  Co.'s 
own  financial  structure.  Actually  they  were  very  different  propo- 
sitions. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  What  is  the  full  membership  of  the  War  In- 
dustries Board  as  listed  at  that  time? 

Mr.  Hiss.  At  this  meeting  Mr.  Scott  was  chairman,  Mr.  Baruch 
was  present,  Mr.  Brookings,  Mr.  Bingham  as  secretary.  Admiral 
Fletcher,  Colonel  Pierce  and  Mr.  Frayne. 

(The  excerpts  from  the  meeting  of  the  War  Industries  Board  re- 
ferred to  were  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1127  ",  and  are  included  in  the 
appendix  on  p.  3139.) 


2952  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Hiss.  Then  on  October  16,  1917,  there  was  a  further  meeting- 
of  the  War  Industries  Board,  which  is  stated  in  Mr.  Baruch's  opinion 
not  to  be  a  meeting  of  the  War  Industries  Board,  but  only  a  confer- 
ence of  the  explosives  committee  of  the  Board.  At  that  meeting  were 
present  Mr.  Scott,  Mr.  Brookings,  Admiral  Fletcher,  Colonel  Pierce, 
Mr.  Bingham,  and  Mr.  L.  L.  Summers. 

(The  excerpts  from  the  meeting  of  the  War  Industries  Board  re- 
ferred to  were  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1128  "  and  are  included  in  the 
appendix  on  p.  3140.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  Can  you  identify  Mr.  Bingham,  Colonel  Harris? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  No  ;  I  cannot  identify  him. 

Mr.  Hiss.  At  the  bottom  of  that  page,  Mr.  du  Pont,  it  reads : 

The  chairman  stated  that  he  had  been  verbally  advised  by  the  Ordnance 
Department  that  the  Secretary  (if  War  has  given  his  approval  to  the  plan 
authorizing-  the  du  Pont  Co.  to  practically  douljle  their  capacity  for  the  manu- 
facture of  smokeless  powder  at  an  expense  of  approximately  .$90,000,000. 

Mr.  Summers  expressed  the  view  that  since  the  Government  was  so  vitally 
interested  in  this  matter  that  such  additional  facilities  should  be  the  property  of 
the  Government  and  not  of  a  private  interest. 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  the  du  Pont  Co.  would  not  have  been  willing  to 
construct  it  with  its  own  capital  and  make  it  its  own  property  any- 
way? The  du  Pont  Co.  in.si.sted  that  it  would  act  as  agent  of  the 
Government  and  would  not  increase  its  own  capacity  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  The  original  suggestion  was  decided  by  Col- 
onel Hoffer.  that  whereas  that  plant  apparently  would  be  useless  after 
the  war,  the  du  Pont  people  should  not  be  expected  to  build  it.  It 
would  be  on  account  of  the  Government. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Could  we  go  back,  Mr.  Secretary,  a  moment? 
You  were  a  little  bit  mystified,  and  so  was  I,  as  to  what  started  this 
looking  for  the  plant  site.  I  have  been  lianded  a  memorandum  which 
reads : 

On  December  2,  1916— 
That  is  the  previous  December,  before  we  went  into  the  war 

the  company  was  asked  by  the  Board  for  tlie  Investigation  of  the  Manufacture 
of  Arms,  ^Munitions,  and  Equipment,,  if  they  would  l)e  prepared  in  the  future  to 
cooperate  with  the  Government  in  the  provision  of  adequate  supplies  of  military 
explosives,  etc.  The  company  sent  representative  H.  M.  Barksdale  to  Wash- 
ington to  attend  conference  witli  the  above  Board. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  the  one  that  was  known  popularly  as  the  Kernan 
Board  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know. 

The  memorandum  I  referred  to  is  as  follows  : 

On  March  6  Mr.  Bernard  Baruch  of  the  advisory  committee  of  the  Council 
of  National  Defense  asked  the  company  for  information  on  raw  materials 
available  in  the  United  States,  provided  we  were  cut  off  from  the  rest  of  the 
world.     This  information  was  given. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  think  we  had  evidently  been  in  conference 
with  those  b;)ards,  and  I  have  no  doubt  at  all  it  was  the  views  ex- 
pressed in  tiiose  conferences  that  led  us  to  go  out  and  hunt  up  a  site. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Plus  your  belief  that  the  existing  capacity  for  powder 
was  inadequate,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  up  until  October  4  the 
Army's  own  estimates  differed  radically  from  the  estimate  thej^  fi- 
nally adopted  on  October  4. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2953 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  They,  the  Allies,  had  been  taking  our  entire 
output,  and  the  Government  apparently  thought  we  could  provide 
also  any  quantity  of  powder  they  wanted.  Those  two  things  are  a 
little  bit  inconsistent.    They  could  not  go  on  both  at  once. 

Senator  Clark.  In  other  words,  you  could  not  supply  to  the 
United  States  Government  without  taking  it  away  from  the  Allies? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  We  had  just  been  through  the  mill.  We 
knew  what  it  meant.  Of  course,  the  Allies  were  the  same  way. 
Their  needs  were  vastly  in  excess  of  anything  estimated  in  the  be- 
ginning, of  course. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Under  date  of  October  21,  1917,  a  memorandum  was 
prepared  in  the  Gun  Division  of  the  War  Department  by  Capt.  E.  A. 
Hamilton  of  the  Ordnance  Department,  addressed  to  General  Con- 
trol, Gun  Division,  Ordnance  OiRce. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1129  ", 
and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  page  3140.)^ 

Mr.  Hiss.  This  is  ap})arently  a  legal  memorandum  referring  to  the 
then  current  negotiations. 

The  last  sentence  of  the  first  paragraph  says : 

Judge  Laffey,  counsel  for  the  company 

Was  lie  a  director  of  the  du  Pont  Co.  at  that  time,  Mr.  Pierre  du 
Pont? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  not.  but  I  am  not  certain. 
Mr.  Hiss.  He  later  did  become  so? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  He  became  director  later,  and  still  is. 
Mr.  Hiss  (reading)  : 

has  siil)nutted  a  memorandum  to  which  this  is  an  endorsement  wherein  he 
reviews  the  reasons  advanced  by  his  company  in  support  of  their  reciuest  that 
they  be  permitted  to  form  a  new  company  ft)r  the  performance  of  this  worlv. 

The  next  page,  paragraph  -4  quotes  from  Judge  Laffey's  memo- 
randum : 

Tlie  arynment  advanced  in  paragrapli  1  of  the  memorandum  is  based  upon  a 
a  desire  to  limit  liability  which  •'  lies  in  the  possibility  of  it  being  hereafter 
lield  that  the  Onhiance  Department  exceeded  its  lawful  powers  in  making  this 
contract,  in  which  event  the  agent  might  be  held  liable  on  its  implied  warranty 
of  authority  on  all  contracts  signed  by  it  as  agent  of  the  Government.  The 
du  Pont  Co.  desires  to  assume  no  risk  of  financial  loss  to  itself." 

That  was  one  of  the  primary  reasons,  as  Judge  Laffey  has  indi- 
cated. 

On  page  3 : 

It  is  the  magnitude  of  the  undertaking  which  gives  rise  to  the  apprehension 
of  the  du  Pont  Co.  rather  than  a  doubt  as  to  the  validity  of  the  proposed 
contract,  and  consequently,  no  discussion,  howevei'  convincing,  will  remove 
its  reluctance  to  undertake  this  work  in  the  name  of  the  parent  organization. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont,  May  I  state  that  when  the  settlement  was 
made  at  the  end  of  the  war  the  validity  of  the  contract  was  ques- 
tioned. 

Mr.  Gregg.  The  contract  of  March  23,  1918? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes. 


^  "  Exhibit  No.  1129  "  was  entered  into  further  in  Hearings,  Part  XV,  on  p.  35S5. 


2954  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Gregg.  That  was  only  during  the  process  of  the  reaudit  after 
the  war.  Some  of  the  auditors  on  the  work  raised  the  question  as 
to  whether  or  not  the  Secretary  of  War  had  the  authority  to  make 
a  contract  such  as  the  contract  of  March  23,  1918,  but  it  was  never 
raised  by  any  responsible  authority. 

Senator  Clark.  Never  brought  up  to  legal  adjudication? 

Mr.  Gregg.  No,  never, 

Mr.  Hiss.  Continuing  from  the  same  memorandum : 

The  counter  proposal  contemplates  the  formation  of  a  new  company  having 
as  its  officers,  directors,  and  employees  every  member  of  the  present  du  Pont 
organization  whose  services  will  in  any  way  he  necessary  or  desirable  in  the 
performance  of  the  contract.  The  parent  organization  will  affiliate  itself  with 
the  new  company  and  will  guarantee  to  the  Government  the  fulfillment  of 
every  obligation  proposed  by  the  contract.  In  this  way,  it  is  asserted,  the 
Government  will  have  the  services  of  the  du  Pont  Co.  but  the  risk  of  loss 
will  be  limited  to  the  capital  of  the  new  company. 

In  other  words,  $5,000. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  we  should  add  after  your  last  remark 
that  there  was  a  possible  loss  through  the  guarantee  of  the  subsidiary 
company's  operations.  We  guaranteed  its  performance,  which  might 
have  been  quite  a  costly  procedure. 

Mr.  Hiss.  May  we  take  that  up  in  connection  with  this  specific 
proposition  which  was  the  order  of  October  25,  addressed  to  your 
company  and  accepted  by  you  as  president? 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1130  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  page  3141.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  This  was  directed  to  you  by  William  Crozier,  Major 
General,  Chief  or  Ordnance. 

It  directed  you  in  the  first  paragraph  to — 

proceed  as  soon  as  possible  with  the  construction  for  the  Government  of  com- 
plete plants  for  the  manufacture  of  smokeless  powder  for  cannon  in  units  of 
100,000  pounds,  rate  of  daily  capacity,  the  total  capacity  of  which  will  be 
1,000,000  pounds  of  powder  per  day  of  24  hours. 

The  estimated  cost  is  set  forth  in  the  last  part  of  paragraph  2. 
The  estimated  costs  of  construction  are  $90,000,000. 
The  third  paragraph : 

You  will  act  as  the  agent  for  the  Government  in  selecting  sites  for  the 
plants. 

Then  the  last  sentence  in  paragraph  3  : 

The  Government  will  indemnify  you  against  any  and  all  loss  by  accident, 
fire,  flood,  or  explosion  or  otherwise  arising  or  growing  out  of  the  construction 
of  the  plants. 

Paragraph  4: 

In  order  to  expedite  the  construction  of  the  plants  you  will  be  given  freedom 
in  the  exercise  of  your  judgment — 

The  same  clause  that  was  in  the  original  proposition. 
This  is  paragraph  5  : 

The  Government  will  reserve  the  right  to  furnish  lumber,  nails,  cement, 
brick,  and  steel  necessary  in  the  construction  of  the  plants,  and  to  the  extent 
that  the  Government  exercises  the  right,  it  will  agree  to  make  deliveries  of 
materials  of  suitable  quality  at  such  times  and  in  such  quantities  as  the  bill  of 
materials  which  you  will  furnish  i)rovides,  but  the  cost  of  such  materials  shall 
be  included  in  the  cost  of  the  plants  upon  which  payments  provided  for  In 
subdivisions  (a)  and  (&)  of  the  next  following  paragraph  are  computed. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2955 

(a)  and  (h)  provide  for  cost  plus  7  percent  and  cost  plus  8  per- 
cent, respectively,  a  total  of  cost  plus  15  percent,  as  in  the  original 
proposition. 

Paragraph  5  ])rovides  that  even  when  the  Government  supplies 
you  with  the  materials  where  you  have  no  purchase  expense,  you  will 
still  receive  15  percent  of  the  cost  of  those  items. 

Paragraph  6 : 

The  Government  will  pay  directly  or  will  reimburse  you  for  all  cost  of  the 
construction  of  the  plants,  and  in  addition  you  will  be  paid  at  the  time  of 
making  payments,  on  account  of  such  construction  whether  directly  to  you  or 
in    reimbursement,    (a)  — 

Then  the  7  percent,  which  is  to  govern  preparation  of  plans,  the 
procurement  of  sites,  engineering  supervision.  Most  of  that  pro- 
curement of  sites  had  already  been  carried  out  at  your  own  risk 
without  specific  governmental  order,  had  it  not,  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  did  not  catch  that  question. 

Mr.  Hiss.  If  you  will  look  at  paragraph  6  (a),  it  is  stated  that  the 
7  percent  of  cost  is  to  cover  preparation  of  plans,  the  procurement 
of  sites. 

My  question  was,  as  of  this  date,  October  25,  practically  all  the 
Avork  of  procuring  sites  had  already  been  done,  and  this  is  repay- 
ment for  expenditures  already  made  for  which  no  specific  govern- 
mental order  was  in  effect.  It  was  just  a  matter  of  your  own  judg- 
ment that  it  would  become  necessary  at  some  time. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  If  that  is  of  any  importance,  it  ought  to  be 
checked.  I  do  not  know  if  the  selecting  of  a  site  actually  took  up 
options  on  the  property  at  that  time  or  not. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  am  going  simply  by  what  Mr,  Pierce's  memorandum 
says. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Does  he  say  that? 

Mr.  Hiss  (reading  "  Exhibit  No.  1117  ")  : 

On  October  4  we  started  to  option  the  property  *  *  *  on  October  23  our 
real  estate  department  resumed  optioning  the  Charleston  site. 

This  letter  is  October  25,  and  talks  about  the  procurement  of 
sites. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  You  appreciate  we  only  started  to  option 
sites  on  October  23.     By  the  25th  we  could  have  hardly  secured — 

Mr.  Hiss.  No :  I  beg  your  pardon.     You  started  on  October  4. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  He  said  he  went  back  to  continue  optioning 
sites. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  right. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  But  answering  your  question,  this  covers 
what  had  already  been  expended 

Mr.  Hiss.  To  some  extent. 

Mr.  Pierre  dit  Pont.  In  the  examination  of  options  on  the  real 
estate,  as  well  as  what  followed. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  primary  M^ork  of  selecting  sites  was  that  described 
in  ]Mr.  Pierce's  memorandum  from  February  7  on,  when  you  had 
engineers  in  the  field. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  is  right. 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  spent  money  and  months  of  work  on  that  [reading 
"  Exhibit  No.  1130  "]  : 

— engineering  supervision  other  than  local  supervision,  and  services  in  con- 
nection with  purchasing  and  forwarding  deliveries  of  material  necessary  for 
the  construction  of  the  plants,  and 


2956  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

(b)  A  sum  equal  to  8  percent  to  cover  administration  other  than  local 
administration,  pro  rata  share  of  overheail  expense  other  than  local  overhead 
expense,  and  to  cover  profit. 

The  last  part  of  paragraph  8,  the  last  sentence,  reads : 

The  Government  will  make  prompt  payments,  and  if  necessary  so  to  do,  will 
attach  a  disbursing  otlicer  at  the  plant  or  at  the  office  of  your  company. 

Paragraph  9 : 

The  Government  will  pay  directly  or  will  reimburse  you  for  all  cost  of  the 
operation  of  the  plants  and  in  addition  there  will  be  paid  to  you  the  sum  of  5 
cents  per  pound  for  all  smokeless  powder  delivered  and  accepted. 

At  the  end  of  the  first  full  month  of  operation  of  any  unit  or  fraction  of  a 
imit,  the  cost  of  the  water-dried  powder  exclusive  of  the  cost  of  boxes  and 
amortization 

It  goes  on  with  much  the  same  provisions  as  before  as  to  what 
shall  be  done  in  the  event  the  cost  is  reduced  below  441/2  cents  in 
the  case  of  water-dried  and  47  cents  in  the  case  of  air-dried. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  is  the  same  thing  exactly. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Paragraph  11,  the  termination  provision,  provides  for 
a  fee  of  $900,000  for  each  month  during  which  the  agency  has  been 
in  operation,  in  the  event  of  termination,  which  is  precisely  the 
same  as  in  the  original  October  8  proposition. 

Mr.  PiicRRE  DU  Pont.  Please  note  in  the  event  such  right  is  exer- 
cised at  a  date  later  than  6  months,  there  is  no  obligation  to  make  the 
payments  other  than  those  in  the  letter  provided,  so  that  covered 
only  the  period  up  to  6  months  when  that  $900,000  was  due. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  correct. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  After  that  the  contract  followed  its  terms. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is,  ^''ou  would  be  paid  on  the  poAvder  produced 
during  the  period  of  more  than  6  months. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  And  on  the  construction  finished. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Yes;  but  you  expected  to  finish  construction  in  much 
less  than  6  months,  didn't  you  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  AVe  rather  hoped  that  we  would. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Your  actual  construction  time  was 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  If  the  war  had  terminated  quickly,  which 
was  a  hoped-for  event,  we  might  have  stopped  in  a  month. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Do  you  remember  what  the  actual  construction  time 
was? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  It  was  8  months. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  construction  time  ?    Not  for  the  first  unit. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  The  first  unit  was  8  months. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  don't  think  so,  Mr.  du  Pont.  In  this  pamphlet 
entitled,  "  Old  Hickory ",  which  has  been  referred  to  before,  on 
page  8  it  says  that  ground  was  broken  for  work  on  necessary  rail- 
road spurs  on  February  9,  that  ground  was  broken  for  the  plant 
March  8,  that  on  June  1  the  first  unit  was  in  operation,  for  the 
manufacture  of  sulphuric  acid,  67  days  after  breaking  ground,  that 
on  July  2  the  first  powder  was  manufactured,  that  this  was  116 
days  after  breaking  ground. 

iVIr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes;  but  the  contract  alloAvance  was  twice 
that.     We  accomplished  the  results  in  practically  half  the  time. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  am  merely  pointing  out  that  this  6  months  provision, 
as  it  turned  out,  would  have  permitted  you  to  have  5  cents  a  pound 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2957 

on  all  powder  produced  for  3  months  in  some  units,  or  at  least  in 
one  unit,  and  in  less  than  that — well,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  the  agency 
w^as  signed  some  time  before  the  ground  was  broken,  so  that  we 
ought  to  add  another  month  on  that. 

Mr.  Gregg.  The  agency  Avas  signed  January  29. 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  the  ground  was  first  broken  in  February  or  March  ? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Yes. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  There  would  have  been  no  powder  paid 
for  at  5  cents  if  the  construction  had  not  been  completed  in  that 
time  specified,  but  the  construction  was  completed. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Just  a  minute.  You  mean  after  the  G  months  period, 
if  you  had  not  finished  construction  until,  say  7  months,  there  would 
have  been  no  payment  as  to  the  powder,  is  that  your  point? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  No  ;  the  point  is  this :  That  if  construction 
had  ceased  within  5  months,  there  was  a  definite  $900,000  per 
month  due.  Now,  after  the  5  months  period  we  were  to  have  been 
paid  on  construction  as  provided  in  the  contract,  and  nothing  on 
manufacture  until  manufacture  occurred,  and  then  according  to  the 
terms  of  the  contract. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  quite  correct.  Let  me  restate  it,  to  be  sure  we 
understand  each  other.  Had  the  contract  terminated  prior  to  the 
6  months  you  would  have  been  paid  $900,000  for  each  month  or  a 
fraction  of  a  month  for  all  fees? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Had  the  contract  terminated  after  6  months  you  would 
have  been  paid  15  percent  of  the  cost  of  construction  to  date  and 
5  cents  on  whatever  powder  had  been  produced? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  is  right. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Paragraph  12  of  "  Exhibit  No.  1130  "  reads : 

It  is  understood  that  this  order,  after  acceptance  by  you,  may  be  assigned 
to  the  du  Pont  Engineerins  Co.,  a  Delaware  corporation  of  nominal  capitaliza- 
tion to  be  organized  solely  for  the  purpose  of  construction  and  operation  of 
powder  plants  under  this  order. 

It  then  provides  that  the  officers  and  directors  of  the  engineering 
company  will  be:  President,  Pierre  S.  du  Pont;  vice  president,  E.  G. 
Buckner;  vice  president,  Irenee  du  Pont;  vice  president,  H.  F. 
Brown;  treasurer,  J.  J.  Kaskob;  and  secretary,  Alexis  I.  du  Pont; 
and  then  it  lists  the  directors. 

Those  are  the  same  officers  and  directors  that  the  parent  company 
had  at  that  time  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  This  would  indicate  that  Mr.  Laffey  was 
a  director  at  the  time. 

Mr.  Hiss.  These  are  the  same  officers  and  directors  that  the  parent 
company  had  at  the  time  ?  ^ 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  believe  so. 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  said  some  time  back  ago  that  the  October  8  mem- 
orandum represented  a  hasty  proposition. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Just  a  moment  on  that  question  you  asked. 
That  is  my  present  recollection,  that  the  directors  were  the  same,  but 
I  am  not  sure  that  all  the  directors  of  the  du  Pont  Co.  are  named 
here.    If  you  want  it  checked,  that  can  be  done. 


1  See  footnote  on  p.  2958   for  information  regarding  officers  and  directors. 


2958  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr,  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  am  not  even  sure  that  Henry  Pierce  was 
a  director. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  will  be  cleared  up  in  another  report,  Mr.  du  Pont. 

While  that  is  being  looked  up,  we  may  proceed. 

Some  time  back  you  referred  to  the  fact  that  the  October  8  coun- 
terproposition  submitted  by  your  company  was,  in  your  opinion, 
a  hurried,  hasty  proposition.    The  October  25 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  The  October  4  was  very  hasty  and  the  Oc- 
tober 8  a  little  more  perfected,  and  it  gradually  grew  up  to  this  one. 

Mr.  Hiss.  But  it  was  the  October  8  one  we  dealt  with  in  some 
detail. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  We  did  not  refer  to  the  October  4  one  specifically.  I 
do  not  think  it  has  been  introduced  in  evidence. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  It  has  not. 

Mr.  Hiss.  But  the  October  25  one  is  substantially  the  same  in 
things  other  than  form  as  the  October  8. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes.  The  principal  terms  are  exactly  the 
same. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Precisely  the  same. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  So  that  the  terms  can  hardly  be  called  hasty  terms  by 
this  time,  October  25  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes.  We  made  a  pretty  good  guess  the  first 
time.  It  was  hasty  to  make  a  proposition  of  that  kind  in  5  days, 
quite  a  hasty  matter, 

Mr.  Eliason.  The  annual  report  for  1917  does  not  give  a  list  of 
the  directors.  I  will  have  that  obtained  from  Wilmington,  to  be 
accurate  about  it,  if  you  want.^ 

Mr.  Hiss.  Yes. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  May  I  call  attention  to  paragraph  10  in  this 
contract,  wdiich  is  quite  important?  I  am  not  sure  whether  it  was  in 
the  October  8  or  not. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Do  you  want  to  read  it  into  the  record,  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  it  would  be  well.  It  is  quite  lui  im- 
portant part  of  the  contract. 

Mr.  Hiss.  If  you  would  like  to  read  it,  do  so, 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Paragraph  10  reads : 

The  Government  will  reserve  to  itself  the  right  to  reduce  the  output  of  the 
plants  herein  provided  to  lie  constructed  and  operated,  in  which  event  the  terms 
and  conditions   herein  set  forth  will  he  applicable. 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  October  31,  at  another  meeting  of  the  War  Indus- 
tries Board 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Just  a  moment,  Mr.  Hiss.  There  is  a  similar 
provision  in  regard  to  construction.  Although  it  provides  for  a 
million  pounds  per  day  manufacture,  I  think  there  is  a  provision 
there  that  it  can  be  reduced. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  the   October  8? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  No;   October  25. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  did  not  ({uite  get  the  point,  ]Mr.  du  Pont. 


'^  T' e  1017  list  of  ofHciTs  and  directors  of  the  du  Pont  EiiKiiieerinjr  ("o.  and  the  E.  I. 
du  I'ont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  was  later  furnished  to  the  committee  and  appears  in  the 
appendix   on    p.    3163. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2959 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  the  contract  provided  that  all  or  a  part 

of  a  million  pounds  of  powder  per  day 

Mr.  Hiss.  Just  a  minute.     Paragraph  1  simply  says: 

The  total  capacity  of  which  will  l)e  1,000,000  pounds  of  powder  per  day  of 
24  hours. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Maybe  October  8  was  the  one  that  had  it  in. 
There  was  one  like  that. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Is  this  an  exhibit  in  the  testimony? 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  don't  know  what  you  are  referring  to. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  The  contract. 

Mr.  Hiss.  October  25? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  The  October  25  contract. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  right.  It  was  just  introduced  as  "  Exhibit  No. 
1130." 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  is  an  exhibit,  then  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Yes. 

I  refer  to  the  minutes  of  a  meeting  of  the  War  Industries  Board 
of  October  31, 1917,  excerpts  from  which  are  now  offered  as  an  exhibit. 

(The  excerpts  from  meeting  referl-ed  to  were  marked  ''  Exhibit 
No.  1131  ",  and  are  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3144.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  This  document  says  in  part,  Mr.  du  Pont : 

A  communication  from  the  Chief  of  Ordnance,  dated  October  29,  informing 
the  Board  of  arrangement  made  between  the  Ordnance  Department  and  the 
E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  «&  Co.  for  the  construction  and  operation  of  powder 
plants  having-  a  rated  capacity  of  1,000,000  pounds  of  finished  smokeless  powder 
per  day  and  involving  an  exjjenditure  of  approximately  .$90,000,000,  was  read 
for   the    information    of   the   board. 

It  was  ordered  that  the  following  letter  be  sent  in  acknowledgement  to  the 
Chief  of  Ordnance. 

Then,  quoting  from  the  proposed  letter : 

We  beg  to  say  that  the  only  previous  definite  information  the  War  Indus- 
tries Board  had  regarding  the  contract  referi-ed  to  therein  with  the  E.  I 
■du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  was  a  telephone  message  to  the  chairman  of  the 
Board  to  the  effect  that  you  proposed  to  make  a  contract  with  the  du  Pont 
€o.  involving  the  expenditure  of  about  $90,000,000  without  referring  it  in 
any  way  to  the  Board. 

We  now  understand  that  you  simply  advise  us  of  your  action  as  a  matter 
of  information. 

OLD  HICKORY  CONTRACT SECRETARY  OF  WAR  BAKER's  ORDER  TO   SUSPEND 

negotiations 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  October  31  a  telegram  was  sent  to  you  by  the  Secre- 
tary of  War,  Mr.  Baker,  which  said : 

I  have  just  had  precsented  to  me  the  details  of  the  proposed  contract  with 
regard  to  increased  capacity  for  powder  production.  This  matter  is  large, 
intricate,  and  important.  Do  nothing  about  it  until  you  hear  further  from 
me.  Stay  all  action  under  the  order  until  I  can  acquaint  myself  thoroughly 
with  all  features  of  the  matter. 

Senator  Pope.  What  is  the  date  of  that  communication? 

Mr.  Hiss.  October  31,  the  date  the  War  Industries  Board  an- 
nounced they  had  received  under  date  of  October  29  the  communi- 
cation from  the  Chief  of  Ordnance. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Before  you  get  away  from  that  contract, 
-which  is  referred  to  in  this  telegram,  you  did  not  read  the  last 


2960  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

sentence  in  the  contract  of  what  the  du  Pont  Co.  were  undertaking 
to  do. 

(c)   Furnish  such  working  capital  as  may  be  needed. 

I  gather  that  meant  we  had  to  put  up  the  money  until  we  were 
reimbursed  on  the  15th  of  the  month.  They  were  monthly  payments, 
I  believe. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  a  change  from  the  provisions  of  the  contract  of 
October  8  ?  ^ 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  But  this  is  the  one  that  was  signed. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Yes. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  just  want  you  to  appreciate  what  that 
might  mean.  We  were  spending  money  on  the  actual  plant  that 
was  built  later  at  a  rate  of  $20,000,000  a  month,  and  that  meant  we 
were  carrying  up  to  $20,000,000  a  month  before  we  Avere  repaid. 

Mr.  Hiss.  But  that  provision  did  not  remain  in  the  contract. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  That  is  true,  but  this  contract,  which  seemed 
to  give  a  rather  high  remuneration  the  w.ay  you  read  it,  bear  in 
mind  w^e  were  out  $20,000,000  at  the  end  of  the  month  for  15  days. 

Mr.  Hiss.  At  the  same  time  you  were  financing  your  own  con- 
struction and  carrying  your  own  insurance,  so  you  had  considerable 
free  cash  at  this  time,  didn't  you,  the  company? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  think  that  makes  a  particle  of  dif- 
ference. If  you  put  up  $20,000,000,  you  must  have  that  much 
free  cash. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Mr.  Hiss,  have  you  a  memorandum  of  Octo- 
ber 15  in  which  there  was  a  telephone  communication  from  Colonel 
Hoffer  to  us  saying  that  the  Secretary  of  War  approves  this  general 
project,  which  was  after  the  October  8  proposition  was  made,  and 
directs  that  steps  be  taken  to  carry  it  out? 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  have  not  seen  a  copy  of  that. 

Senator  Pope.  What  is  that  date,  Mr.  du  Pont  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  The  telephone  message  was  October  15. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  was  before  the  actual  form  of  contract  was  devel- 
oped and  referred  to  the  general  proposition. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  But  it  was  after  the  October  8  proposition. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  correct. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Which  covered  the  essentials  of  October  25 
and  it  says  that — 

I,  the  Secretary  of  War,  wish  to  be  infonned  as  to  the  terms  before  they 
reach  finality. 

I  understand  he  was  so  informed. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  du  Pont,  had  not  the  terms  reached  finality  in  the 
order  of  October  25.     Didn't  you  regard  that  as  a  final  order? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  We  thought  that  it  was.    It  was  signed. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  telegram  I  read  from  the  Secretary  of  War,  the  date 
he  sent  that  telegram  being  October  31,  said: 

I  have  just  had  presented  to  me  the  details  of  proposed  contract. 

He  evidently  had  not  seen  it  before. 

Mr,  Pierre  du  Pont.  We  were  not  aware  of  that.  We  thought  he 
knew. 

Mr.  Gregg.  The  du  Pont  Co.  formally  accepted  the  order  of 
October  25. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2961 

Mr.  Hiss.  At  that  time  it  was  a  formal  agreement. 

Senator  Pope.  October  25? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Is  there  a  date  on  the  acceptance  ? 

Mr.  Gregg.  There  is  no  date  on  the  acceptance. 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  the  same  date  that  the  Secretary  of  War  telegraphed : 

Do  nothinc;  about  it  until  you  hear  furtlier  from  me;  stay  all  action  under 
the  order — 

according  to  Mr.  Pierce,  on  that  same  day  you  started  surveys  of  that 
portion  of  the  site  which  was  under  option  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  that  is  right. 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  went  ahead  in  spite  of  the  Secretary  of  War's 
order,  I  assume,  because  you  felt  confident  the  order  would  have  to 
be  rescinded.     Do  you  recall  why  you  went  ahead  with  the  survey? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  No ;  we  thought  at  that  time  there  were  lack- 
ing some  matters  of  detail.  Of  course,  we  did  not  know  what  the 
trouble  was.  The  Secretary  had  approved,  apparently  of  the  general 
features  of  the  October  8  order  which  were  all  incorporated  in  the 
October  25  memorandum. 

Mr.  Hiss.  But  obviously  any  expense  you  incurred  after  that  tele- 
gram would  be  at  your  own  risk. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Oh,  yes ;  legally  it  would  be. 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  going  ahead,  as  you  did,  you  must  have  felt  fairly 
confident  that  the  proposition  would  eventually  go  through  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes ;  as  it  did. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Under  date  of  November  1,  1917,  you  wrote  a  letter  to 
Mr.  Biickner,  who  was  a  vice  president  of  the  company,  which  I  will 
oifer  as  the  next  exhibit. 

(The  document  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1132  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3144.)^ 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  wrote  this  letter  to  Mr.  Buckner,  as  I  say,  giving 
detailed  information  as  to  the  disadvantages  to  the  du  Pont  Co.  in 
undertaking  the  proposed  contract.  On  page  2,  the  second  full 
paragraph,  you  say: 

The  loss  of  the  use  of  our  engineering  department  will  be  a  great  burden  to 
the  welfare  of  our  company. 

What  engineering  work  was  in  process  at  the  time  that  this 
occurred  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  could  not  tell  you  that. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Was  Mr.  Ackart  your  chief  engineer  there  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  No  ;  I  don't  think  so. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Ackart  prepared  this  chart  of  pay-roll  employees 
and  of  the  salaried  employees  of  the  engineering  department  of  the 
du  Pont  Co.  at  my  request  and  stated  that  from  1917  to  the  end  of 
the  war  the  major  construction  undertaken  by  the  company  was  in 
connection  with  the  dye  works  and  that  in  his  opinion  this  was 
approximately  one-fifth  of  the  smokeless-powder  plant  that  had  been 
prepared. 

I  will  offer  this  chart  as  an  exhibit. 

(The  chart  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1133  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3146.) 


1  ■•  Exhibit  No.  1132"  was  entered  into  further  in  Hearings,  Part  XIV,  on  p.  3168. 


2962  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Hiss.  This  particular  chart  shows  that  in  August  of  1914  the 
pay-roll  employees  of  the  engineering  department  were  only  615,  that 
in  August  of  1915,  1  year  later,  this  had  increased  to  22,756.  It 
remained  up  at  about  that  level  until  nearly  the  middle  of  1916,  or 
the  spring  of  1916,  and  in  August  came  down  again  to  4,574,  still  well 
above  the  1914  level.  It  went  gradually  to  7,754  in  January  of  1918 
and  then  jumped  to  44,000  in  August. 

Is  this  the  period  of  construction  of  Old  Hickory? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  other  words,  at  the  time  that  this  was  undertaken  you 
had  a  greatly  reduced  pay  roll  in  the  engineering  department.  There 
does  not  appear  to  be,  from  the  pay-roll  list,  any  indication  that  the 
company  contemplated  any  considerable  expansion  of  its  own  plant 
at  that  time,  so  that  the  loss  of  the  use  of  your  engineering  depart- 
ment would  not  appear  to  be  a  great  burden,  as  stated  in  this  letter. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  do  not  think  that  we  have  the  evidence 
before  us,  because  I  am  sure  this  statement  is  not  made  idly,  and  I 
am  sure  that  Ave  had  a  great  deal  of  concern  about  our  engineering 
department  employment  and  the  company's  employment  at  that 
time. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  want  to  call  attention  to,  and  offer  for  the  record  as  an 
exhibit,  a  report  of  June  14,  1923. 

(The  report  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  Xo.  1134"  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3147.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  A  copy  of  that  is  now  before  you.  This  report  was  pre- 
pared by  Mr.  Pierce,  who  at  that  time  was  president  of  the  du  Pont 
Engineering  Co.  This  is  an  analysis  of  the  net  results  of  outside 
contracting  work  and  the  effect  upon  the  du  Pont  organization  as  a 
whole. 

The  third  paragraph  reads: 

Following  the  signing  of  the  armistice  we  were  left  with  this  organizntion 
and  it  was  neces.^ary  to  decide  very  quickly  what  was  to  he  done  with  it. 
Since  it  has  heen  the  du  Pont  Co.'s  policy  for  approximately  20  y<  ars  to  main- 
tain an  organization  to  do  its  own  design  and  constrtictinn  work  and  since 
the  executive  committee  at  that  time  decided  to  continue  this  policy,  we  were 
confronted  with  the  prohlem  of  demohilizing  the  engineering  organization 
to  a  point  where  it  could  hest  meet  the  normal  requirements  of  the  du  Pont 
interests.  Our  forces  at  that  time  consisted  of  2,479  salary  employes  and  ap- 
proximately 45,000  field  forces.  We  very  quickly  demobilized  75  percent  of 
these  forces,  retaining  the  hest  men — the  remaining  portion  to  be  demobilized 
more  graflually  and  as  conditions  warranted.  It  was  suggested  that  we  under- 
take to  do  such  work  for  the  General  Motors  Corporation  as  they  would  give 
us  under  a  contract  where  we  would  charge  them  only  10  percent  profit  on  the 
cost  of  the  engineering  and  which  actually  figured  but  only  a  fraction  of  a 
percent  on  the  actual  cost  of  construction. 

On  page  2  of  this  report — the  excerpt  which  was  furnished  does 
not  refer  to  that  part — on  page  2  of  that  report  your  Mr.  Pierce 
makes  the  statement  that  by  the  taking  on  of  outside  contracting 
after  the  war,  that  it,  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.,  was  kept  alive 
after  the  war;  that  is  correct,  is  it  not? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  it  took  on  outside  engineering.  He  points  out  that 
on  the  General  Motors  work,  which  has  been  referred  to  above  as 
being  a  volume  of  $40,000,000,  $362,496  of  overhead  was  charged  to 
General  Motors,  which  materially  reduced  the  du  Pont  engineering 
costs  and  absorbed,  further,  $238,107  charges  from  other  departments 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2963 

account  purchasing,  traffic,  and  so  forth,  and  made  an  outright  profit 
of  some  $300,000  on  this  fraction  of  1  percent. 

Was  it  not  true  in  connection  with  the  Old  Hickory  building  that 
a  large  part  of  the  overhead  of  your  concern,  or  of  the  engineering 
overhead  that  for  20  years  it  had  been  your  policy  to  maintain,  was 
absorbed  in  the  construction  of  Old  Hickory? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  would  think  not,  because  the  obligation  re- 
quired was  proportionately  greater.  We  spent  just  as  much  as  we 
originally  had  on  our  own  work.  But  I  would  have  to  go  to  the 
record  to  find  that  out. 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  page  3  of  this  same  letter  from  you  to  Mr.  Buckner, 
"  Exhibit  No.  1132  "  describing  the  disadvantages  of  the  proposed 
plant 

Senator  Pope.  That  was  on  what  date? 

Mr.  Hiss.  November  1,  1917. 

You  say,  Mr.  du  Pont :  : 

We  cannot  undertake  any  work  of  the  magnitude  contemplated  in  these 
Government  factories  witliout  including  in  our  charges  the  profit  that  one 
might  reasonably  expect  from  the  use  of  our  stockholders'  money.  If  we 
should  fail  to  do  this,  the  unfriendly  minority  would  have  a  case  of  some  merit 
to  promote  against  those  in  charge  of  the  company's  affairs.  Apart  from  the 
possibility  of  these  attacks,  this  feature  of  the  situation  only  serves  to  accen- 
tuate the  duties  of  our  officers  and  directors  to  endeavor  to  win  reasonable 
profits  for  the  stockholders. 

Wlio  were  the  major  stockholders  of  your  company  at  that  time? 
Has  that  been  offered  in  evidence  ?    That  is  1917. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  No;  I  think  not. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Could  you  supply  the  10  or  a  dozen  controlling  stock- 
holders in  1917?  1 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  That  was  the  point  which  I  wanted  to  bring 
out.  In  all  these  contracts,  remember  we  were  in  a  dual  capacity 
of  American  citizens  doing  our  level  best  we  could  for  the  country 
and  still  maintain  the  position  of  trustees  of  the  funds  of  the  stock- 
holders. Some  of  these  major  stockholders  might  have  been  un- 
friendly and  might  have  caused  us  some  trouble,  but  that  does  not 
change  at  all  one's  duty  to  look  after  their  stockholders.  We  could 
not  do  that  and  lightly  hand  away  their  money. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Didn't  you  and  members  of  your  family  hold  large  in- 
terests in  the  company  yourselves? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  So  that  you  were  also  referring  to  your  duty  to 
yourselves  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  B»t  that  does  not  give  us  a  right  to  give 
somebody  else's  money  away.  Today  things  are  a  little  bit  different. 
You  are  allowed  to  dip  into  somebody  else's  pocket. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  This  statement  was  borne  out  by  the  fact  that 
we  had  just  gone  tlirough  a  long  suit  with  some  of  our  stockholders 
on  a  point  very  similar  to  this. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Continuing  with  that  same  paragraph : 

This  is  not  only  part  of  our  duty,  but  we  cannot  assent  to  allowing  our  own 
patriotism  to  interfere  with  our  duties  as  trustees.     Our  commanding  position 

1  This  information  was  later  supplied  to  the  committee  and  appears  in  the  appendix 
•on   p.    3160. 

83876— 35— PT  13 5 


2964  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

in  the  explosive  industry  lias  been  won  only  by  incessant  work  and  expenditure 
of  money  by  the  company.  The  situation  is  an  asset  of  the  stockholders  which 
cannot  be  dissipated  lightly. 

What  did  you  mean  by  the  phrase  "the  situation,"  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  have  lost  track  of  that.  I  have  been  look- 
ing at  another  copy  of  my  own. 

Mr.  Hiss.  This  is  the  top  of  the  fourth  page,  the  second  complete 
sentence.  Read  the  first  complete  sentence  and  the  second  complete 
sentence. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  The  situation  as  developed  over  years  of 
experience,  the  goodwill  of  the  company. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  other  words,  your  commanding  position  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes;  not  only  in  explosives,  but  everything 
we  manufacture. 

Mr.  Hiss  (continuing  reading  "  Exhibit  No.  1132  ")  : 

It  is  undoubtedly  true  that  the  contemplated  work  could  not  be  executed 
by  other  contractors  at  costs  to  the  Government  better  than  that  which  we 
propose  to  charge,  including  our  commission.  If  we  are  wrong  in  this  supposi- 
tion, we  will  gladly  relinquish  the  work  to  other  contractors,  as  we  do  not 
feel  that  our  low  compensation 

That  was  15  percent,  plus  5  cents.     Do  you  consider  that  low  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  We  would  get  no  compensation  at  all  on  that. 
The  maximum  compensation  "we  expected  on  that  was  6  percent,  and 
if  our  cost  of  overhead  was  as  great  as  it  had  been  in  our  own  plant, 
there  would  not  be  anj^  compensation  whatever. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Five  cents  a  pound? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Five  cents  a  pound  might  never  have  eventu- 
ated. The  construction  was  $90,000,000  and  the  hard  part  of  the 
work,  and  our  possibility  there  was  a  minimum  of  6  percent  and  a 
minimum  of  nothing. 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  this  your  overhead  was  so  great  as  to  eat  up  all  but 
that  percentage? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  We  had  our  overhead. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Do  you  recall  what  that  overhead  was? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  You  will  hear  something  of  the  detail  of  that 
overhead.     It  was  submitted  about  this  time  to  the  Department. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  the  October  25  agreement,  "  Exhibit  No.  1130  ",  as  to 
payment  by  the  Government  in  paragraph  6,  it  reads : 

(a)  A  sura  equal  to  7  percent  thereof  to  cover  preparation  of  plants,  the 
procurement  of  sites,  engineering  supervision  other  than  local  supervision,  and 
services  in  connection  with  purchasing  and  forwarding  deliveries  of  material 
necessa:ry  for  the  construction  of  the  plants;  and  (&)  a  sum  equal  to  8  percent 
to  cover  administration  other  than  local  administration,  pro  rata  share  of 
overhead  expense  other  than  local  overhead  expense,  and  to  cover  profits. 

Didn't  you  regard  this  as  a  complete  contract,  involving  operation 
as  well  as  construction? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  The  construction  might  prove  so,  but  had  the 
work  ended  it  might  not  have  been  so. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Would  your  company  have  accepted  the  contract  with 
only  the  construction  feature? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  No  ;  as  long  as  the  operation  was  to  be  done, 
we  insisted  that  we  should  do  it. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Didn't  you  refuse  to  do  the  construction  alone  ? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2965 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  We  did,  but  if  the  war  had  ended  there 
would  have  been  no  operation. 

Mr.  Hiss.  But  you  were  counting  upon  the  profit  from  the  opera- 
tion as  a  part  of  the  total  remuneration,  isn't  that  true? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  It  was  operated. 

Mr.  Hiss.  All  right. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  was  a  long  distance  away;  8  or  12 
months  at  that  time  was  a  long  stretch  of  time.  Nobody  knew  when 
the  war  was  going  to  end. 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  November  2,  1917,  a  letter  was  written  to  General 
Crozier,  Chief  of  Ordnance,  signed  by  you,  on  the  same  general  line 
as  the  letter,  just  discussed,  to  Mr.  Buckner. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  offer  that  for  appropriate  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked"  Exhibit  No.  1135  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3147.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  that  letter  you  say  [reading]  : 

In  answer  to  your  request  that  I  put  in  writing  an  estimate  of  the  expenses 
vshich  are  chargeable  against  the  15-pereent  commission 

That  is  the  specific  break-down  which  you  were  speaking  about  ? 
Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir. 
Mr.  Hiss.  In  the  second  paragraph  it  reads : 

For  instance,  the  rate  of  construction  demands  a  monthly  outlay  in  excess 
of  the  average  monthly  outlay  in  the  construction  of  the  Panama  Canal. 

Eventually  the  capital  was  furnished  by  the  United  States,  so  that 
that  was  cut  out  in  the  negotiations. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  No,  indeed. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  this  paragraph  are  you  not  referring  to  the  strain 
upon  your  financial  facilities? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes ;  but  there  was  a  strain  on  our  organiza- 
tion from  other  losses. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  meant  this  particular  sentence,  Mr.  du  Pont,  which 
I  read,  was  referring  to  the  financial  strain. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Only  one  part. 

Mr.  Hiss.  To  the  extent  that  it  relates  to  financial  strain,  it  was 
eliminated  in  the  agreement  as  finally  consummated? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Is  this  still  on  the  15-percent  basis  for  construction? 

Mr.  Hiss.  This  is  still  on  the  15-percent  basis  for  construction. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Take  the  financial  part  of  it :  When  we  finally 
finished  the  Old  Hickory  plant,  it  took  us  8  years  to  get  the  whole 
thing  settled  up. 

Mr.  Gregg.  The  Government  was  not  going  to  furnish  us  any 
funds.    You  were  going  to  use  your  own  funds. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  They  were  going  to  reimburse  us. 

Mr.  Hiss.  At  that  time  you  had  to  furnish  capital  from  month 
to  month? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  What  would  have  happened  if  the  Govern- 
ment had  not  furnished  the  capital?  We  would  not  shut  down  and 
discharge  all  the  men.  We  were  in  a  fix  which  one  does  not  like  to 
get  into. 


2966  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

'  Mr.  Hiss.  That  was  a  fix  which  was  completely  obliterated  later 
on,  which  I  was  attemj)ting  to  point  out,  that  the  Government  agreed 
to  keep  a  balance,  and  advanced  some  $18,000,000  for  construction 
and  some  $18,000,000  for  operation. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  The  telegram  from  Secretary  Baker :  Sup- 
pose that  had  come  at  the  end  of  the  month  when  we  had  already 
spent  $20,000,000,  and  we  would  have  been  left  sitting  in  the  air, 
and  I  do  not  know  how  long,  and  holding  the  bag,  and  a  great  force 
of  men  there,  and  no  work  for  them.  What  would  you  have  done? 
These  things  are  quite  important.     He  was  quite  right. 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  page  2,  of  "  Exhibit  No.  1135  "  the  first  complete 
paragraph  reads : 

You  appreciate  that  the  task  imposed  upon  our  company  is  enormous  and 
fully  justifies  the  alternative  offer  made  last  night  when  Mr.  Buckner  offered 
to  furnish  the  Government  our  existing  plans  from  which  to  build  these  plants, 
without  charge — 

The  plans  were  already  in  existence  by  the  2d  of  November? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  The  plans  furnished  had  been  approved. 
The}^  Avere  fairl}^  well  along. 

Mr.  Hiss  (continuing  reading)  : 

if,  in  return,  you  can  arrange  to  have  the  work  done  by  other  engineers  and 
lii'.ilders,  thus  relieving  us  entirely  of  the  burden.  I  believe,  however,  that 
this  counteroffer  should  not  be  accepted.  These  factories  can  be  constructed 
nirre  cheaply  and  efficiently  and  with  greater  certainty  of  immediate  maximum 
output  if  the  work  is  conducted  by  E.  I.  de  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  than  if 
handed  over  to  contractors  who  cannot  place  themselves  in  immediate  contact 
with  similar  iilants  in  actual  operation. 

Did  you  not  believe  at  the  time  that  you  were  practically  the  only 
company  that  could  construct  and  operate,  both,  any  plant  of  this 
size  in  the  United  States? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  thought  so,  but  apparently  others  differed 
with  me.     I  was  not  the  only  person  competent  to  speak. 

i\[r.  Hiss.  On  page  3,  Mr.  du  Pont,  the  second  complete  paragraph 
[reading]  : 

The  development  of  these  general  conditions  has  convinced  us  of  the  pro- 
priety of  the  seemingly  high  charge  of  15-percent  commission  which  may 
auKauit  in  maximum  to  $13,500,000. 

With  any  saving  in  the  cost  below  44%  cents  for  water-dried  and 
47  cents  for  air-dried,  you  would  have  received  in  addition  to  the  5 
cents  on  a  pound  of  powder  considerably  more  than  the  $13,500,000 
referred  to  here  on  the  construction  end  of  it.     That  is  true,  is  it  not? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir. 
^    Mr.  Hiss.  You, had  at  no  time  discussed  this  as  two  separate  propo- 
sitions, had  you,  construction  or  operation?     It  was  always  a  joint 
pro]:)Osition.     You  refused  to  do  one  and  not  the  other  ? 

j\Ir.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Hiss.  So  that  here  you  refer  to  a  maximimi  compensation  of 
$13,500,000,  whereas,  the  maximum  compensation — assuming,  as  when 
you  use  the  word  "  maximum  "  you  must  assume,  favorable  circum- 
stances— would  be  much  greater  because  of  the  5  cents  a  pound  on 
however  much  powder  you  produced  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  We  are  talking  about  the  construction  of  the 
plant,  are  we  not? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2967 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  think  you  were  talking  about  the  entire  contract  in  this 
regard,  Mr.  clu  Pont. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  have  not  read  the  letter. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  here  we  are  talking  about  con^^t ruc- 
tion, that  is,  the  maximum  construction. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  was  trying  to  bring  out  that  throughout  the  negotia- 
tions you  insisted  that  construction  and  operation  could  not  be 
separated,  and  you  would  not  consider  any  proposition  of  the  Gov- 
ernment for  one  without  the  other.  Therefore  that  reference  to 
$13,500,000  for  construction  profit,  as  the  maximum  profit,  does  not 
accurately  describe  the  maximum  profit  of  the  only  deal  you  have 
considered  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  was  the  maximum  profit  which  could 
have  accrued  to  us  in  a  period  of  quite  a  number  of  months. 

Senator  Pope.  Mr.  du  Pont,  between  the  time  you  signed  the  con- 
tract, October  25,  and  the  time  you  received  this  telegram  from  Mr. 
Baker,  had  you  expended  any  substantial  amount  of  inonej^  on  this 
particular  contract? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  cannot  tell  you  how  much  was  expended. 
I  think  we  spent  some  for  land  and  did  not  get  it  for  a  time. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  We  made  a  good  many  arrangements,  tak- 
ing options  on  things,  and  at  the  same  time  purchased  this  ma- 
chinery plant  to  manuiacture  machinery  in. 

Senator  Pope.  Do  you  have  any  records  on  that,  Mr.  Hiss? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  there  is  a  record  on  Avhat  was  ex- 
pended. 

Mr.  Hiss.  No;  I  have  not. 

Mr.  du  Pont,  referring  to  page  4  of  the  same  letter,  "  Exhibit  No. 
1135  "  from  you  to  General  Crozier,  of  November  2,  1917,  the  first 
complete  paragraph  on  page  4,  referring  to  the  losses  which  maj^  be 
incurred  by  the  company  in  undertaking  the  new  work,  it  states 
(reading)  : 

For  instance,  we  have  already  undertaken  large  construction  in  connection 
with  the  dye  industry  and  other  chemical  manufacture — 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Will  you  give  the  date  of  the  letter  from 
which  you  are  reading? 

Mr.  Hiss.  November  2,  1917,  from  Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont  to  Gen- 
eral Crozier,  page  4,  the  first  full  paragraph. 

That  is  the  second  sentence  (reading)  : 

For  instance,  we  have  already  undertaken  large  construction  in  connection 
with  the  dye  industry  and  other  chemical  manufacture,  and  have  engaged  to 
deliver  the  product  to  these  factories  in  large  amounts. 

I  call  your  attention  to  the  Junel8,  1917,  executive  committee  meet- 
ing, at  which  the  committee  advised  that  the  total  investment  in  the 
dyestuffs  industry  would  be  $7,000,000,  the  estimated  annual  profit 
17  percent  at  present  prices,  and  the  further  statement  that  7  months 
at  one-half  capacity  would  repay  the  investment. 

So  that  what  you  have  in  mind  is  loss  of  prospective  profits  and 
not  actual  loss,  when  you  make  the  statement  that  there — 

we  have  already  undertaken  large  construction  in  connection  with  the  dye 
industry  and  other  chemical  manufacture,  and  have  engaged  to  deliver  the 
product  of  these  factories  in  large  amounts. 


2968  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Because  one-half  of  the  capacity  would  repay  your  investment. 
Now,  turn  to  the  last  page  of  the  letter,  page  5,  the  last  sentence 
in  the  first  paragraph : 

However,  in  a  situation  so  uncertain  as  is  that  of  today,  business  prudence 
and  our  duty  to  our  stockliolders  malve  it  necessary  to  provide  against  loss, 
even  though  prospective  profit  is  unlikely  to  be  adequate. 

Then  there  is  listed  in  an  attached  memorandum  certain  costs : 

1.  Preparation  of  plans,  including  selection  of  sites,  optioning  of  laud,  survey 
or  land,  making  of  contour  maps,  and  use  of  all  our  standard  drawings. 
Estimated  cost  to  us  between  1  and  2  percent  of  estimated  cost  of  plant. 

That  means  between  $900,000  and  $1,800,000.  Now,  the  majority 
of  that  had  already  been  spent  prior  to  October  25. 

Mr.  Ikenee  or  Pont.  Where  do  you  get  the  majority  from? 

Mr.  Hiss.  From  Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont's  previous  testimony, 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  The  majority  of  the  expense? 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  majority  of  the  expense  involved  in  item  1,  "  prep- 
aration of  plans,  including  selection  of  sites,  optioning  of  land,  sur- 
vey of  land,  making  of  contour  maps,  and  use  of  all  our  standard 
drawings." 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  think  you  are  misreading  it  somewhere. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  was  referring,  at  that  point  of  the  examination,  to 
Mr.  Pierce's  memorandum,  in  which  he  refers,  first,  to  the  fact  that 
February  7,  1917,  "  our  engineers  "  started  "  again  collecting  data 
on  stream  flow  and  study  of  topographical  maps  for  a  smokeless- 
powder-plant  location  to  comply  with  the  rulings  of  the  War  Col- 
lege, since  none  of  our  plants  complied  with  these  rulings." 

That  is  from  ''  Exhibit  No.  1117."     [Reading:] 

On  April  21,  at  our  request,  a  letter  was  obtained  from  General  Crozier  of 
the  Ordnance  Department,  which  was  in  the  nature  of  a  passport  for  our 
engineers  to  visit  water  intakes  and  structures  that  were  under  guard  from 
alien  enemies. 

On  April  2.5  two  of  our  locating  engineers  were  sent  from  the  Wilmington 
ofRce  to  the  field. 

Between  April  25  and  July  12  these  engineers  covered  Tennessee,  parts  of 
Alabama,  Kentucky,  Illinois,  Indiana,  West  Virginia,  and  the  southwestern 
part  of  Virginia,  in  search  of  suitable  locations  for  smokeless-powder  plants. 

July  12  to  2S  was  spent  in  working  up  data  collected  by  the  field  engineers 
and  making  a  report  on  same. 

July  28  to  August  3  two  engineers  were  in  the  field  reconsidering  locations 
and  a  definite  recommendation  was  made  for  the  selection  of  the  Charleston 
site.     *     *     * 

On  October  4  we  started  to  option  the  property. 

On  October  5  this  optioning  was  stopped  on  account  of  the  high  prices  of 
land. 

On  October  22  and  28  one  of  our  engnieers,  in  company  with  Col.  J.  C.  Nichols, 
of  the  Ordnance  Department,  visited  the  various  sites  and  obtained  the  approval 
of  the  Ordnance  Department,  through  Colonel  Nichols,  of  two  of  the  sites 
selected  by  us,  with  a  third,  smaller  in  area,  as  a  possibility. 

On  October  23  our  real-estate  department  resumed  optioning  the  Charleston 
site. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  There  is  nothing  in  that  about  preparation 
of  plans,  making  of  contour  maps,  and  use  of  standard  drawings. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  preparation  of  plans  is  referred  to  in  the  letter  of 
November  2,  according  to  which  Colonel  Buckner  had  offered  to  turn 
over  the  plans  to  some  other  contractors,  and  at  that  time  I  asked  you 
whether  plans  were  comj^lete  by  November  2. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2969 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  said  they  were  pretty  well  along. 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  said  they  were  pretty  well  along. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  How  much  of  that  could  have  been  completed  between 
October  25  and  November  2?    Not  very  much;  could  it? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Whether  the  money  was  spent  or  not,  we 
were  endeavoring  to  recoup  it  if  it  were  spent. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Right. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Does  that  answer  my  question  about  the 
majority  of  expense  on  engineering  and  building  of  plant? 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  beg  your  pardon.  The  first  item  in  Mr.  Pierre  du 
Pontes  memorandum,  "  Exhibit  No.  1135  ",  does  not  make  any  men- 
tion of  engineering  supervision.    I  will  read  it : 

Preparation  of  plans — 

which  we  have  just  described — 

including  selection  of  sites — 

which  that  memorandum  specifically  refers  to — 

optioning  of  land— 

which  it  refers  to — 

survey  of  land — 

which  that  does  not  refer  to  until  October  31 — 

making  of  contour  maps — 

which  it  does  not  refer  to  until  a  later  date — 

and  use  of  all  our  standaixl  drawings — 

which  is  the  November  2  letter,  on  which  Mr.  du  Pont  commented 
on  the  basis  of  that  letter  as  pretty  well  along,  7  days  after  October 
25,  which  he  testified  he  assumecl  had  been  pretty  well  along  also 
1  days  before. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  On  that  basis  you  think  the  majority  of  the 
engineering  expense  had  been  expended  ?    Is  that  what  I  understand  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Does  this  constitute  engineering  expense,  what  I  have 
just  read? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  No;  engineering  plans. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  said  the  majority  of  the  items  described  in  this  "  no. 
1  "  had  been  complete  at  that  time,  for  which  a  charge  of  II/2  per- 
cent was  being  made. 

The  next  one  goes  on  with  supervision  of  construction  and  in- 
specting engineer 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  do  not  follow  that,  Mr.  Hiss. 

Mr.  Hiss.  May  we  phrase  the  question  this  way: 

How  much  of  "  point  1 ",  for  which  you  estimated  a  cost  of 
between  1  and  2  percent  of  the  $90,000,000,  in  other  words  $90,000 
to  $180,000,  do  you  estimate  had  been  completed  by  October  25? 

jSIr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  could  not  make  an  estimate  at  this  time. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  was  not  a  majority? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Of  those  items? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  am  talking  about  the  expense.  You  say 
the  majority  of  the  expense  had  been  spent,  as  I  understood  you 
to  say,  and  I  said,  '' AYliere  did  3^011  get  the  majority  from?  " 


2970  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  did  not  say  how  much  it  cost  to  do  it;  but  I  said  the 
majority  of  the  work,  which  you  estimated  would  cost  that  much, 
had  been  done.  I  do  not  know  whether  you  spent  that  much  or 
not,  Mr.  du  Pont. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  imagine  this  thing  was  made  from  pre- 
vious experience,  and  I  am  informed  already 

(Informal  discussion  off  the  record  occurred  at  this  point,  after 
which  the  proceedings  were  resumed  as  follows:) 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  started  to  say,  I  think  the  report  on  the 
Old  Hickory  construction,  which  was  quite  analogous,  indicated 
that  they  used  40  acres  of  blueprints.  Those  certainly  had  not 
been  made  at  that  time.  And  an  acre  of  blueprints,  made  a  foot 
at  a  time,  which  would  have  to  be  prepared  for  a  specific  site,  must 
require  a  great  deal  of  engineering. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Item  No.  3  states  [reading  from  "  Exhibit  No.  1135  "]  : 

Cost  of  extra  compensation  tO'  be  offered  to  men  engaged  on  the  work  as  an 
inducement  to  extraordinary  effort  to  expedite  early  completion  and  economy 
of  construction  (our  expenditure  on  this  account  amounted  to  $1,800,000). 

In  this  connection  I  call  your  attention  to  an  extract  from  the  min- 
utes of  the  executive  committee  meeting  on  October  26,  1917,  which 
I  offer  for  appropriate  number. 

(The  excerpts  referred  to  were  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1136  "  and 
are  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3150.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  second  paragraph  reads : 

Report  was  received  from  the  chairman,  dated  October  25,  1917  (no.  9509), 
in  regard  to  establishing  a  bonus  fund  to  be  available  for  employees  who 
successfully  carry  out  the  construction  of  the  plants  for  the  manufacture  of 
1,000,000  pounds  of  smokeless  powder  per  day  for  the  United  States  Govern- 
ment. 

After  full  discussion,  it  was  moved  and  unanimously  carried  that  this  report 
be  received  and  filed,  and  the  chairman  advised  that  it  is  agreeable  to  this  com- 
mittee to  enter  into  a  contract  with  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  under  which 
we  will  receive  from  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  $1,500,000  of  the  total  com- 
missions which  they  receive  on  account  of  work  which  they  are  proposing  to 
undertake,  as  an  amount  of  money  to  be  available  for  payment  by  the  du  Pont 
Co.  to  the  employees  of  the  du  Pont  Co.  and  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.,  either  in 
cash  or  in  stock  of  the  du  Pont  Co.,  as  in  the  discretion  of  the  executive  com- 
mittee of  the  du  Pont  Co,  may  seem  best,  as  bonuses  to  the  men  who  con- 
tribute most  in  the  successful  prosecution  of  this  work     *     *     *. 

If,  in  fact,  this  discretion  had  been  exercised,  Mr.  du  Pont,  in  favor 
of  an  issue  of  stock,  would  this  have  represented  an  actual  cost  or 
merely  a  capitalization  of  $1,500,000? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  The  cost  of  the  stock,  whatever  it  might  have 
been. 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  would  have  issued  stock  from  your  treasury  under 
this  plan,  or  would  you  have  gone  in  the  market  and  purchased  it, 
or  not? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  We  practically  always  purchased  the  stock. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Even  if  we  issued  it  from  the  treasury,  it  is 
worth  the  market  price. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Would  not  that  be  a  capitalization  of  the  $1,500,000? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  No. 

Mr.  Hiss.  What  would  it  be  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  would  be  an  expense,  a  part  of  the  cost. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2971 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  we  would  have  pur- 
chased the  stock. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  will  also  ask  to  have  marked  as  "  Exhibit  No.  1137  " 
an  extract  from  the  minutes  of  the  executive  committee  of  the  du 
Pont  comjoany  dated  November  9,  1917. 

(The  extract  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1137  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3150.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  on  the  same  subject. 

Senator  Pope.  The  committee  will  be  in  recess  until  10  o'clock 
tomorrow  morning. 

(Thereupon,  at  4:15  p.m.,  Thursday,  Dec.  13,  1934,  the  hearing 
was  recessed  until  tomorrow,  Friday,  Dec.  14,  1934,  at  10  a.m.) 

This  concludes  that  part  of  the  testimony  known  as  "  Part  XIII, 
Profiteering,  Government  Contracts  and  Expenditures  during  the 
World  War,  including  early  negotiations  for  Old  Hickory  Contract." 
At  this  point  the  committee  took  up  the  story  of  "  Old  Hickory." 
(See  pt.  XIV.) 


APPENDIX 


2973 


2974 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


n 


□ 


CO    (VI 
to    <i> 


\       $■      -•      -  O 


'  tf 

> 

ill 

^ 

1 

r 

n 

o 
(\J   1- 


o 

E 


CO  en 


8 

8 
oo" 

♦ 

(\j 

•  * 

(>i 

<n 

q 

m 

w 

CO 

O 

o 

O 

o 

^ 

o 

o 

<n 

N 

<i- 

^ 

OJ 

f) 

*i) 

M 

CO 

o 

O 

O 

<• 

in 

^ 

CO 

1^. 

.     "5 

(VJ 

m 

■     "r 

^ 

0) 

_    ^ 

w. 

^c 

u 

0 

t  2 

i^ 

0       1 

2  w 

(D  t    <^  o> 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2975 

Exhibit  No.  1105 

[OJG:MCM  Tel.  War  Br.  2704,  Mun.  3075] 

Memorandum  to  Mr.  Tillson: 

1.  Pursuant  to  your  recent  request,  I  am  attaching  a  statement  which  will  show 
the  actual  expenditures  of  the  Ordnance  Department  from  April  6,  1919,  to  No- 
vember 30,  1919,  grouped  under  12  major  headings. 

2.  A  brief  summary  of  the  entire  situation  is  as  follows: 

Actually  expended  from  April  6,  1917,  until  Nov.  30,  1919__  $4,  549,  765,  744.  98 
Still  expected  to  be  paid  on  uncanceled  portions  of  contracts 

incurred  prior  to  Nov.  11,  1918 . 400,000,000.00 

Claims  still  to  be  paid  on  uncanceled  portions  of  old  contracts 

(approximately) ._-         200,  000,  000.  00 

Expected  expenditures  to  be  made  in  overhauling  and  storing 

war  materiel  as  the  result  of  the  war 130,  000,  000.  00 

Total $5,  279,  765,  744.  98 

3.  The  total  expenditure  of  the  Ordnance  Departmei^t  for  the  fiscal  year  1916, 
which  may  be  assumed  as  an  average  year  prior  to  the  war,  was  .$16,580,421.00. 
Assuming  this  average  for  the  period  from  April  6,  1917,  until  April  6,  1920,  the 
normal  expenditure  of  the  Ordnance  Department  would  have  been  $50,241,- 
263.00  for  these  three  years.  Deducting  this  amount  leaves  as  an  approximate 
cost  of  the  war  for  the  Ordnance  Department  $5,229,324,481.98,  or  roughly,  iu 
round  figures,  five  and  a  quarter  billion  dollars. 

4.  Of  the  $4,549,765,744.98  actually  expended,  the  allocation  by  principal 
items  of  Ordnance  material  is  shown  on  the  attached  list.  The  amounts  are 
accurately  allocated  on  85%  of  this  amount,  the  other  15%  being  allocated  in 
the  same  proportion  as  the  85%  which  is  believed  to  be  a  reasonably  fair  assump- 
tion. I  have  no  data  as  to  the  allocation  by  items  of  the  expenditures  remaining 
to  be  made.  It  is  believed,  however,  that  by  far  the  greater  proportion  will  be 
for  artillery  and  artillery  ammunition. 

5.  With  reference  to  the  materiel  on  hand  which  the  Ordnance  Department  has 
to  show  for  this  tremendous  expenditure  of  money,  you  will  find  in  exhibit  1, 
page  9,  serial  6,  part  1  of  the  hearings  before  the  Ordnance  Subcommittee  of  the 
Select  Committee  on  Expenditures  in  the  War  Department  of  the  House  of 
Representatives,  a  statement  showing  the  number  of  machine  guns  on  hand  at 
the  beginning  of  the  war;  the  number  acquired  in  the  United  States  since  April 
6,  1917;  the  number  acquired  from  allied  countries;  the  number  now  on  hand; 
and  the  approximate  cost  per  unit.  Similarly,  the  principal  items  of  Ordnance 
materiel  of  this  nature  appear  in  that  exhibit. 

6.  Exhibit  2,  appearing  on  page  15,  the  same  serial  and  part,  indicates  the 
quantities  of  artillery  ammunition  in  the  same  way. 

7.  The  schedule  on  page  18  indicates  the  quantities  of  explosives  and  unloaded 
ammunition. 

8.  Exhibit  3  on  page  24  indicates  the  principal  types  of  artillery  materiel  of 
United  States  production,  foreign  production,  and  on  hand. 

9.  Page  34  shows  the  small-arms  ammunition  produced  and  on  hand. 

10.  The  list  on  page  13  indicates  the  number  of  tractors  and  tanks.  More 
detailed  information  in  this  connection  is  given  in  the  testimony  of  General 
Rockenback  at  page  541,  et  seq.,  in  connection  with  tanks  of  American  and 
foreign  manufacture. 

11.  Also,  you  will  find  a  great  deal  of  information  regarding  the  Chemical  War- 
fare testimony  in  the  testimony  of  General  Sibert  on  pages  444,  et  seq.,  includ- 
ing the  statement  on  total  disbursements  by  the  Chemical  Warfare  Service  from 
August  1,  1918,  to  June  30,  1919.  This  statement  also  includes  expenditures 
"by  other  Departments  prior  to  the  organization  of  the  Chemical  Warfare 
Service." 

12.  In  serial  6,  part  43,  page  2373  of  the  hearings  before  Mr.  Graham's  Sub- 
cornmittee,  appear  statistics  regarding  expenditures  in  the  War  Department  by 
services  or  bureaus  as  furnished  by  the  Director  of  Finance,  and  as  shown  by 
the  data  made  by  Messrs.  Warwick,  Mitchell,  Peat  &  Co.  Those  figures  only 
apply  up  to  June  1,  1919.  Subsequent  figures  to  those  have  been  obtained  in 
preparing  the  statement  above  appearing  in  the  second  paragraph  of  this  letter. 

By  order  of  the  Chief  of  Ordnance. 

O.  J.  Gatchell, 
Li.  Col.,  Ord.  Devi.,  U.  S.  A., 
Executive  Ass't.  to  Chief  oj  Ordnance. 


2976 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Exhibit  No.  1105-A 
Ordnance  Department  expenditures 


Classification 


Apr.  6,  1917,  to  Feb. 
28, 1919,  from  audit 
section  records 


Per- 
cent 


Apr.  6,  1917,  to  Nov. 
30,  1919,  from  di- 
rector of  finance 


Amount 


Per- 
cent 


Mountain,  field,  siege,  and  antiaircraft  artillery, 
including  guns,  mounts,  carriages,  caissons,  optical 
and  fire-control  instruments,  repairs,  replacements, 
tools  and  accessories,  and  plant  facilities  for  their 
manufacture 

Ammunition  for  moimtain,  field,  siege  and  anti- 
aircraft artillery,  including  plant  facilities  for  their 
manufacture 

Seacoast  artillery,  including  that  for  Panama  and 
the  insular  possessions,  with  their  mounts,  optical 
and  fire-control  instruments,  repairs,  replacements, 
tools  and  accessories,  submarine  mines,  radio- 
dynamic  torpedoes,  and  plant  facilities  for  their 
manufacture 

Ammunition  for  seacoast  artillery,  including  plant 
facilities  for  their  manufacture 

Machine  guns  and  automatic  rifles,  including  guns, 
mounts,  tripods,  optical  and  fire-control  instru- 
ments, repairs,  replacements,  tools  and  accessories, 
and  plant  facilities  for  their  manufacture 

Small  arms,  including  rifles,  shotguns,  pistols, 
sabers,  bolos,  optical  and  fire-control  instruments, 
repairs,  repliceraents,  tools  and  accessories,  and 
plant  facilities  for  their  manufacture 

Ammunition  for  small  arms,  machine  guns  and 
automatic  rifles,  including  plant  facilities  for  their 
manufacture 

Trench  and  aerial  warfare  materiel;  optical  and  fire- 
control  instruments;  illuminating  and  signaling 
devices;  bombs;  gas,  flame,  and  smoke  apparatus; 
trench  mortars;  shells,  etc.;  and  plant  facilities 
for  their  manufacture 

Transportation  vehicles  and  equipment,  horse- 
drawn,  motorized,  and  railway,  for  artillery,  am- 
munition, machine  guns,  infantry,  etc.,  including 
pk.nt  facilities  for  their  manufacture 

Armored  motor  cars,  tanks,  tractors,  trailers,  re- 
pairs and  replacements,  tools  and  accessories,  in- 
cluding plant  facilities  for  their  manufacture. 

Ordnance  equipment  and  supplies,  personal  equip- 
ment, entrenching  tools,  construction  and  repair 
tools,  an  1  other  supplies,  including  plant  facilities 
for  their  manufacture 

Arsenals,  proving  grounds,  ordnance  depots,  operat- 
ing divisions,  barracks,  terminal  storage  and  ship- 
ping facilities,  nitrate  plant,  powder  factory,  their 
repair,  maintenance  and  operation,  of  which 
?163, 791,834. 73  was  expended  for  permanent  im- 
provements  -. 


$412, 263, 866.  44 
1, 867, 141,  896.  03 

13, 505,  670.  14 
31, 150, 106.  38 

179, 604, 966.  66 

162, 334,  618.  18 
242, 327, 963.  83 

94,840,310.74 

298, 784, 139.  32 
39, 551, 375.  90 

198, 910, 561. 84 
242, 440, 090.  03 


10.90 
49.32 

.35 

.82 

4.75 

4.30 
6.40 

2.5: 

7.90 
1.04 

5.25 
6.40 


$495,  924,  466.  21 
2, 243,  944, 464.  53 

15,924,180.11 
37,308,079.11 

216,113,872.89 

195, 639, 927.  03 
291, 185,  007.  68 

116,928,979.64 

359, 431, 493.  85 
47, 317, 563. 74 

238, 862,  701.  61 
291, 185, 007. 68 


10.90 
49.32 

.35 

.82 

4.75 

4.30 
6.40 

2.57 

7.90 
1.04 

5.25 
6.40 


Total  expenditures  from  Apr.  6,  1917,  to  Feb. 

28,  1919 

Total  expenditures  from  Apr.  6,  1917,  to  Nov. 

30,  1919 


3, 782, 855, 565. 49 


100.0 


4,  549,  765,  744.  98 


100.  CO 


Exhibit  No.  1106 

some  gross  wartime   expenditures 

"It  is  shown  on  the  books  of  the  War  Department  that  the  total  expenditures 
and  obligations  of  the  War  Department  (from  Apr.  6,  1917),  until  September  1, 
1919,  were  $18,501,117,999.12."  (Source:  Select  Committee  on  Expenditures 
in  the  War  Dej^artment  [Graham  Committee].  Expenditures  in  the  Ordnance 
Department.  Mar.  2,  1921  (66th  Cong.,  3d  sess.),  Rept.  no.  1400,  p.  67.  Hear- 
ings Before  the  Select  Committee,  serial  1,  vol.  3,  p.  651.) 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 
Expenditures  by  Army  bureaus 


2977 


Expended  to 
Apr.  30,  1919 


Percent 


Quartermaster  Corps: 

Pay  of  the  Army,  etc 

Other  Quartermaster  Corps  appropriations 

Ordnance  Department .-_ 

Air  Service __ 

Engineer  Corps 

iVIedieal  Department 

Signal  Corps 

Chemical  Warfare  Service 

Provost  Marshal  General 

Secretary's  office  and  miscellaneous 

Total 


831,  273, 000 
242,  745,  000 
087,  347, 000 
859,  291,  000 
638, 974, 000 
314,  544,  000 
128,  920,  000 
83,  299,  000 
1  24,  301,  000 
'  33, 367, 000 


14,  244, 061, 000 


12.9 

43.8 

28.7 

6.0 

4.5 

2.2 

.9 

.6 

.17 

.23 


100.00 


1  Figures  are  for  Dec.  31,  1918. 
pared  with  other  items  in  table. 


Expenditures  since  that  date  for  these  purposes  have  been  small  com- 


The  Quartermaster  Corps,  which  paid  the  soldiers  and  furnished  them  with 
food,  clothing,  equipment,  and  miscellaneous  supplies,  spent  the  most.  The 
Ordnance  Department  was  next  in  order,  with  over  $4,000,000,000  for  munitions, 
more  than  half  of  its  expenditure  being  for  artillery  ammunition.  (Source: 
The  War  with  Germany,  by  Leonard  P.  Ayres,  p.  133.) 


Ordnance  Department  expenditures,  April  6,  1917,  to  November  30,  1919 

[Source:  War  Department,  Office  of  the  Chief  of  Ordnance,  Document  No.  0.0.    112.8/22,  dated  January 

1920] 


Class 
no. 

Classification 

Expenditures 

Amount 

Percent 
of  total 

1 

Mountain,  field,  siege,  and  antiaircraft  artillery,  including  guns, 
mounts,  carriages,  caissons,  optical  and  fire-control  instruments, 
repairs,  replacements,  tools  and  accessories,  and  plant  facilities  for 

$495, 924, 466.  21 
2,  243, 944,  464.  53 

15, 924, 180.  11 
37,  308, 079. 11 

216,113,872.09 

195,  639, 927. 03 
291, 185, 007.  68 

116,928.979.64 
359, 431,  493. 85 
47,  317,  563.  74 
238, 862,  701.  61 

291,185,007.68 

10.90 

2 

Ammunition  for  mountain,  field,  siege,  and  antiaircraft  artillery, 

49  32 

3 

4 

Seacoast  artillery,  including  that  for  Panama  and  the  insular  posses- 
sions, with  their  mounts,  optical,  and  fire-control  instruments, 
repairs,  replacements,  tools,  and  accessories,  submarine  mines, 
radiodynamie  torpedoes,  and  plant  facilities  for  their  manufacture. .. 

Ammunition  for  seacoast  artillery  including  plant  facilities  for  their 

.35 
.82 

5 

Machine  guns  and  automatic  rifles,  including  guns,  mounts,  tripods, 
optica]  and  fire-control  instruments,  repairs,  replacements,  tools, 

4  75 

6 

Small  arms,  including  rifles,  shotguns,  pistols,  sabers,  bolos,  optical 
and  fire-control  instruments,  repairs,  replacements,  tools,  and  acces- 

4  30 

7 

Ammunition  for  small  arms,  machine  guns,  and  automatic  rifles, 

6  40 

8 

Trench  and  aerial-warfare  material,  optical  and  fire-control  instru- 
ments, illuminating  and  signaling  devices,  bombs,  gas,  flame  and 
smoke  apparatus,  trench  mortars,  shells,  etc.,  an^  plant  facilities 
for  their  manufacture                                                                   - 

2.57 

9 

Transportation  vehicles  and  equipment,  horse-drawn,  motorized,  and 
railway,  for  artillery,  ammunition,  machine  guns,  infantry,  etc., 
including  plant  facilities  for  their  manufacture 

7.90 

10 

Armored  motor  cars,  tanks,  tractors,  trailers,  repairs  and  replace- 
ments, tools,  and  accessories,  including  plant  facilities  for  their 
manufacture 

1.04 

11 

Odnance  equipment  and  supplies,  personal  equipment,  intrenching 
tools,  construction  and  repair  tools,  and  other  supplies,  including 
plant  facilities  for  their  manufacture      ... .          .     

5.25 

12 

Arsenals,  proving  grounds,  ordnance  depots,  operating  divisions, 
barracks,  terminal  storage  and  shipping  facilities,  nitrate  plant, 
powder  factory,  their  repair,  maintenance,  and  operation,  of  which 
$196,500,000  was  expended  for  permanent  improvements 

6.40 

Total  expenditures  from  April  6, 1917,  to  November  30, 1919. . . 

4, 549, 765, 744. 98 

100.00 

2978  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Aside  from  the  actual  expenditures  of  the  Ordnance  Department  listed  above, 
there  were  additional  expenditures  expected  at  the  time  (January  1920).  These 
are  summarized  in  a  memorandum  by  O.  J.  Gatchell,  then  Lt.  Col.,  Ordnance 
Dept.,  U.S.A.,  executive  assistant  to  the  Chief  of  Ordnance,  dated  January  16, 
1920: 

Actually  expended  from  April  6,  1917,  until  Nov.  30,  1919- -  $4,  549,  765,  744.  98 

Still  expected  to  be  paid  on  uncancelled  portions  of  contracts 

incurred  prior  to  Nov.  11,  1918 400,  000,  000.  00 

Claims  still  to  be  paid  on  uncancelled  portions  of  old  con- 
tracts (approximately) 200,  000,  000.  00 

Expected  expenditures  to  be  made  in  overhauling  and  storing 

war  material  as  the  result  of  the  war 130,  000,  000.  00 

Total—- 5,  279,  765,  744.  98 

The  total  expenditure  of  the  Ordnance  Department  for  the  fiscal  year  1916, 
which  may  be  assumed  as  an  average  year  prior  to  the  war,  was  $16,580,421.00. 
Assuming  this  average  for  the  period  from  April  6,  1917,  until  April  6,  1920,  the 
normal  expenditure  of  the  Ordnance  Department  would  have  been  $50,241,263.00 
for  these  three  years.  Deducting  this  amount  leaves  as  an  approximate  cost  of  the 
war  for  the  Ordnance  Department  $5,229,324,481.98,  or  in  round  figures  five  and 
a  quarter  billion  dollars. 

Source:  Wax  Department,  Office  of  the  Chief  of  Ordnance,  Document  No.  0.0.    112.8/23. 

Expenditure  of  the  Quartermaster  Corps  from  April  6,  1917,  up  to  and  including 

December  1,  1918 

Spent  within  the  United  States $6,  196,  561,  573.  26 

Spent  overseas 558,  204,  592.  00 

Total 6,  754,  766,  165.  26 

Included  in  the  above  sum,  of  course,  are  expenditures  for  an  immense  number 
and  variety  of  items,  the  larger  of  which  are  listed  below.  The  source  for  these 
materials  is  an  undated  War  Department  document,  entitled  "Report  dealing 
with  the  procurement  and  supply  operations  of  the  Quartermaster  General  from 
April  6,  1917,  to  December  1,  1918,  and  with  the  method  of  procuring,  commis- 
sioning, and  promoting  personnel."  Unless  otherwise  indicated  all  figures  are 
for  this  peroid  and  refer  exclusively  to  the  Quartermaster  Corps.  The  table  on 
expenditures  above  is  from  data  on  page  1  of  the  report.  The  figures  below  whose 
source  is  stated  to  be  an  exhibit  identified  by  number  or  letter  are  from  exhibits 
accompanying  the  report. 

Expenditures  on  supplies 
[Source:  Quartermaster  General  report,  finance  exhibit  no.  1] 

Clothing  and  equipage $2,  288,  291,  540.  32 

Subsistence 727,  092,  430.  44 

General  supplies 166,  230,  619.  42 

Forage 139,  824,  699.  20 

Fuel 72,  450,  453.  53 

Total 3,  393,  889,  742.  91 

.    .                              (Source:  Quartermaster  General  report,  finance  exhibit  no.  2] 
Pay  of  the  Army $1,  287,  197,  405.  24 

Transportation  of  the  Army 
[Source:  Quartermaster  General  report,  finance  exhibit  no.  3] 

Total $933,  353,  406.  62 

Of  which  the  larger  items  are: 

Autos,  truclcs,  motorcycles,  bicycles,  purchase  and  repair.  590,  567,  959.  03 

Transport  charter,  harbor  and  artillery  boats 129,  762,  651.  77 

Transjjortation  of  troops 85,  830,  400.  23 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


2979 


Construction  and  repair 
[Source:  Quartermaster  General  report,  finance  exhibit  no.  4] 

Total $774,  327,  469.  11 

Of  which  the  larger  items  are: 

Barracks,  quarters 440,  007,  739.  43 

Construction  and  repair  of  hospitals 167,  866,  242.  60 

Roads,  walks,  wharves,  and  drainage 60,  906,  087.  24 

Heating  and  lighting  systems,  post  bakeries,  laundries, 

etc I 53,  214,  867.  08 

Water  systems 43,  093,  100.  74 

Inland  and  Port  Storage  and  shipping  facilities  construction 

[Source:  Quartermaster  General  report,  finance  exhibit  no.  5] 

Total $205,  818,086.  89 

Of  which  the  larger  items  are: 
Joint  reserve  depots: 

Expeditionary^  depots 136,  882,  703.  68 

Ordnance  depots 26,  443,  698.  00 

Quartermaster  depots 19,  652,  468.  73 

Addition  at  various  camps 6,  570,  117.  45 


Purchases  of  subsistence  stores,  from  July  1,  1918,  to  Dec.  1,  1918 
[Source:  Q.M.G.  report.  Exhibit  B] 


Article 


Average 

price 

020,  305 

$0. 2565 

688,  531 

.414 

514, 192 

.5134 

872,  207 

.4555 

671,  500 

.1383 

080,  621 

.0549 

342,  731 

.1516 

828,  207 

.0683 

708, 025 

.0279 

276, 688 

.2615 

556,  471 

.0827 

659, 939 

.117 

Total  value 


Beef,  fresh  and  fresh  frozen 

Beef,  corned 

Beef,  fresh,  roast 

Bacon,  issue 

Fish,  salmon 

Flour,  issue , 

Bread,  hard 

Tomatoes,  canned 

Potatoes,  fresh 

Vegetables,  dehydrated 

Sugar,  granulated 

Milk,  evaporated 


Pound 
Pound 
Pound 
Pound 
Pound 
Pound 
Pound 
Pound 
Pound 
Pound 
Pound 
Pound 


233, 
78, 
32, 
83, 
92, 

400, 
70, 

292, 

142, 
27, 

125, 


$59,  759, 181 
32,  588,  290 
16, 693,  837 
38,  202,  672 
12, 817,  747 
21, 974,  047 
10,  662,  254 
19, 998,  424 
3, 982, 970 
7, 134,  469 
10,  389, 192 
11,093,562 


Procurement  of  gasoline,  oil,  etc.,  from  Apr.  1,  1918,  to  Nov.  1,  1918 
[Source:  Q.M.G.  report.  Exhibit  F] 


Item 


Unit 


Total  quan- 
tity pur- 
chased Apr. 
1,  1918,  to 
Nov.  1,  1918 


Value 


Average 

unit 

Price 

Apr.  1, 

1918,  to 

Nov.  1, 

1918 


Amount 


Lubricating  oils.. 

Fuel  oils 

Aviation  gasoline 
Motor  gasoline... 
Aviation  naptha. 
Fighting  naptha. 


Gallons 
Gallons 
Gallons 
Gallons 
Gallons 
Gallons 


4,  487, 067 

30, 984,  134 

12, 066, 414 

52,  374, 066 

3,  297,  500 

4, 021, 500 


.46 

.07 

.254 

.227 

.328 

.412 


$2,  061,  407.  40 
2,195,463.12 
3,060,119.48 

11,885,012.84 
1, 084,  666.  25 
1,  657,  713.  75 


83876 — 35 — pt  13- 


2980 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


Status  of  motor  vehicles  and  approximate  valuation,  as  of  Nov.  11,  1918 
[Source:  Q.M.G.  report.Exhibit  Q] 


Total  no. 

ordered 

to  Nov. 

11 


Value  of  no. 
ordered 


Total  no. 

com- 
pleted to 
Nov.  11 


Value  of 

number 

completed 


Due  on 

outstand- 
ing con- 
tracts 
Nov.  11 


Value  of 

outstanding 

contracts 


Trucks  and  chassis- 
Bodies 

Passengers  cars 

Motorcycles -.. 

Trailers 


208, 032 
187, 801 
38, 460 
67, 881 
40,  720 


$577,  567,  300 
54,  674,  700 
33,  676, 800 
20,  364,  300 
25,  531,  440 


83, 390 
87,  208 
17, 666 
28,310 
15, 021 


$217, 689,  400 

27, 156, 000 

16,  509,  400 

8, 493, 000 

9, 418, 167 


124, 642 
100,  593 
20,  794 
39,  571 
25, 699 


$359, 877, 900 
29,618,700 
17, 167, 400 
11,871,300 
16, 113,  273 


Total     (including    side 
cars  and  bicycles) 


720,  271, 170 


282, 478, 359 


Note. — Total  amount  expended  and  obligated  for  autos,  trucks,  motorcycles,  bicycles,  purchase,  and 
repair  in  United  States  from  April  2,  1917,  to  December  1,  1918,  $590,567,959.03,  with  estimated  savings  on 
contracts  to  be  canceled  of  $208,000,000.00.  Figures  in  above  chart  are  for  amounts  contracted  for  and 
expended  in  United  States  and  overseas;  consequently  are  more  than  expended  in  United  States  alone. 


Exhibit  "  J-1  " 

Value  of  the  principal  quarter ynaster  items  in  stock  on  hand,  in  the  United  States  and 
overseas,  as  of  Dec.  1,  1918 

[Source:  Exhibit  O,  Q.M.G.  report] 

Clothing  &  equipage $605,  802,  646 

Clothing  &  equipage  materials 225,  885,  603 

Subsistence 263,  440,  083 

Motors 66,  294,  769 

Vehicles 11,  594,  849 

Remount 110,  619,  668 

Forage 24,  80 1 ,  232 

Harness 19,  893,  415 

General  supplies 15,  626,  896 

Raw  materials 8,  584,  999 

Total 1,352,544,  160 

Costs  of  camp  construction 

{Source:  Select  Committee  on  Expenditures  in  the  War  Department,  hereafter  referred  to  as  the  Graham 
Committee,  Report  on  Camps,  Apr.  10,  1920,  H.  R.  (66th  Cong.,  2d  session)  Report  No.  186,  p.  117;  Hear- 
ings Before  the  Select  Committee,  serial  1,  volume  3,  p.  379] 

Name  of  camp  Approx.  costs  • 

Camp  Lee $19,060,920 

Camp  IVIeade 18,  614,  020 

Camp  Upton 15,370,820 

Camp  Grant 14,  689,  620 

Camp  Pike 2  13,  505,320 

Camp  Custer 13,  385,  920 

Camp  Sherman 13,  247,  620 

Camp  Dix 13,  109,  220 

Camp  Jackson 2  12,  710,  720 

Camp  Devens 12,  311,  420 

Camp  Funston 11,  715,  520 

Camp  Gordon 2  n^  639,  420 

Camp  Dodge 10,  365,  120 

Camp  Lewis 2  9^  231,  420 

Camp  Taylor 8,  801,  120 

Camp  Travis 2  g^  §05,  720 

Total 206,  632,  920 

1  "Approx.  costs"  were  found  in  the  Annual  Reports  of  the  Construction  Division  for  1919,  published  in 
1920,  plus  freight  and  audit-force  charges  as  furnished  by  the  construction  division,  not  included  in  costs 
shown  by  their  report. 

2  Southern  construction  estimated  to  cost  6  percent  less  than  northern. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2981 

"It  is  probable  that  the  approximate  amount  expended  by  the  United  States 
in  the  matter  of  procuring  poisonous  gases  during  the  war  for  defensive  and 
offensive  purposes  was  approximately  $200,000,000."  (Source:  Graham  Com- 
mittee, Report  No.  1400,  p.  8;  volume  p.  592.) 

"Contracts  awarded  for  these  machines  (22,772  tractors)  approximated 
$100,000,000.  Approximately  7,500  tractors  were  delivered  on  the  contracts, 
at  an  expense  of  approximately  $30,000,000  to  the  Government."  (Source: 
Graham  Committee,  Report  No.  1400,  p.  9,  volume  p.  593.) 

"  We  had  53  contracts  for  37-millimeter  shells,  on  which  we  expended  $9,- 
134,582. 

"  We  had  689  contracts  for  75-millimeter  shells,  on  which  we  expended  $301,- 
941,459. 

"We  had  142  contracts  for  3-inch  shells,  on  which  we  expended  $44,841,844. 

"We  had  439  contracts  for  4.7  shells,  on  which  we  expended  $41,716,051. 

"We  had  305  contracts  for  6-inch  shells,  on  which  we  expended  $24,189,075. 

"We  had  617  contracts  for  155-millimeter  shells,  on  which  we  expended 
$264,955,387. 

"We  had  301  contracts  for  8-inch  shells,  on  which  we  expended  $51,371,207. 

"We  liad  152  contracts  for  240-millimeter  shells,  on  which  we  expended 
$24,136,867. 

"We  had  239  contracts  for  9.2  shells,  on  which  we  expended  $54,389,377. 

"We  had  71  contracts  for  12-inch  shells,  on  which  we  expended  $9,507,878. 

"We  had  6  contracts  for  14-inch  shells,  on  which  we  spent  $1,266,477. 

"We  let  111  contracts,  to  the  amount  of  $478,828,345,  for  the  construction  of 
artillery  of  all  calibers,  guns,  howitzers,  gun  carriages,  limbers,  and  recuperators." 
(Source:   Graham  Committee,  Report  No.  1400,  p.  28;  volume  p  .  612.) 

"During  the  period  of  the  war  the  War  Department  undertook  the  construction 
of  seven  Army  supply  bases  and  port  terminals.  These  were  located  at  Boston, 
Mass.;  Brooklyn,  N.Y.;  Norfolk,  Va.;  Charleston,  S.C.;  New  Orleans,  La.; 
Philadelphia,  Pa.;  and  Newark,  N.J.  The  plans  were  apparently  worked  out  in 
the  fall  of  1917,  and  construction  begun  early  in  August  1918.  These  works  were 
very  extensive,  and  the  costs,  as  given  to  the  committee  by  the  War  Department 
on  each  project,  were  as  follows: 

Boston,  Mass $24,  787,  000 

Brooklyn,  N.Y 32,  037,  000 

Newark,  N.J 11,  790,000 

Philadelphia,  Pa 13,  850,  000 

Norfolk,  Va 28,  860,  000 

Charleston,  S.C 17,  116,  000 

New  Orleans,  La 13,  110,  000 

Total 141,  550,000 

[Source:  Graham  Committee,  Report  No.  1400,  pp.  42-43;  volume  pp.  626-627] 


Exhibit  No.  1107 
Cost  of  construction  by  the  War  Department  during  the  World  War 

1.  Cantonment  construction $496,  389,  705.  71 

2.  Facilities  construction  (operated  by  industry) 442,  530,  890.  17 

3.  Facilities  construction  (operated  by  Government) 332,  402,  348.  94 


Total 1,  271,322,  944.  82 

Planning  Branch,  Office  of  The  Assistant  Secretary  of  War,  December  8,  1934. 


2982 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


Exhibit  No.   1108 
Advance  paymenls  held  by  Du  Pont  Co.,  by  months  from  1914-1918,  inclusive 


1914 


1916 


1918 


January 

February.. 

March 

April 

May - 

June.- 

July 

August 

September- 
October 

November. 
December., 


,  065.  950. 00 
,  093, 046. 93 
,  815, 634.  55 


$13,  567, 
17,  370, 
24,  565, 
39, 967, 
47, 057, 
45,  677, 
63, 143, 
66,  622, 
85,  449, 
83,618, 
91, 138, 
97, 199, 


913.74 
528.  57 
578. 80 
342.  45 
243.  26 
432.  56 
895. 09 
039. 95 
332.91 
209.  46 
661.  65 
305. 04 


$102,  386, 
93,  382, 
86,  727, 
77,  174, 
6S,  694, 
58,  886, 
50,  602, 
39,  252, 
29,  469, 
33, 127, 
24,  300, 
32,  833, 


985.  77 
436.  81 
448.  62 
989.  39 
429.  80 
620. 12 
290.  83 
773.  54 
301.  64 
760. 16 
157.  04 
492. 24 


$31, 004, 
25, 460, 
41,  568, 
35,  401, 
28, 455, 
24, 848, 
25,  535, 
25, 143, 
24, 165, 
24,  280, 
22, 139, 
19,  068. 


489.  01 
716.11 
658.  90 
887.  62 
010.  46 
561.  15 
834.  67 
942.  63 
143.46 
939.  87 
860.  07 
711.12 


$47, 055, 
42,  606, 
41,437, 
36,811, 
31,518, 
28,  737, 
27, 142, 
24,  546, 
27,  360, 
27,  502, 


528. 37 
789.  29 
174  36 
537.  88 
213. 14 
277.  81 
658.  84 
409. 01 
603.  81 
411.47 


Exhibit  No.   1109 
Military  contracts 


Cannon  powder 

Rifle,  smokeless 

Year 

Gross  value 

Lbs. 

Value 

Average 

contract 

price 

Lbs. 

Value 

Average- 
contract 
price 

1914 -.- 

$19,469,033 
319,  716,  448 
182. 352, 589 
313, 781, 785 
*410,243.931 

12, 400, 909 
251,  089,  710 
286, 304,  827 
462,  830, 380 
389,191,405 

$11,943,230 
227,  458, 823 
143,  690, 729 
237,  464, 414 
176,001,135 

$0. 9631 
.9058 
.5019 
.5130 
.4522 

3,202,055 
47,154.010 
31, 550, 420 
47,  202, 000 
50,471,807 

$3,187,003 
42, 821, 732 
20, 596,  020 
28,  393,  271 
29, 430, 015 

$0. 9953. 

1915 

9081 

1916 - --- 

.6528 

1917 

.6015 

1918 

5831 

Total 

1,  245,  563, 786 
19,469.033 

1,401,817,231 
12,  400. 909 

796,558,331 

.5682 

179,  580, 292 

124,428,041 

692S 

1,  226, 094,  753 

1, 389,  416,  322 

TNT 

Black  powder 

Caps  and  fuzes 

Miscella- 

Year 

Lbs. 

Value 

Average 

contract 

price 

Lbs. 

Value 

Amount 

Value 

neous 
value 

1914 

2,360,000 
27, 593, 360 
15, 351, 000 
61,810,075 
119,233,505 

$2, 027, 000 
26,  605, 374 
12, 680, 775 
31,016,508 
39. 872, 031 

$0. 8589 
.9612 
.8260 
.5018 
.3344 

$2, 311. 800 

20. 124,  987 

1  941,570 

1915 

2,  548,  545 

918, 100 

2,  877, 430 

8,  596,  294 

$602,032 

358, 045 

717,  901 

2,  250, 348 

14, 550, 666 

15,  792, 000 

7. 465,  520 

94, 881,  225 

$2, 163. 566 

3,085,450 

619, 320 

2,  543, 518 

1916 

1917..- 

15, 570. 371 
*160,086,884 

1918 

Total 

226, 347. 940 

112,201,688 

.4957 

14, 940, 369 

3, 928. 326 

132,  688. 745 

8, 351. 788 

200, 035, 612 

•  Totals  for  year  1918  Include  du  Pont  engineering  contracts.    Figures  marked  with  "  *  "  include  amounts, 
in  original  contracts  estimated  as  necessary  for  construction  purposes. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Exhibit  No.  1109 

Military  contracts — Continued 

SUBDIVISION  OF  1918  CONTRACTS 


2983 


Gross  value 

Cannon  powder 

Rifle,  smokeless 

Year 

Lbs. 

Value 

Average 

contract 

price 

Lbs. 

Value 

Average 

contract 

price 

du  Pont  Company 

du  Pont  Eng.  Co 

$214, 568, 932 
195, 674, 999 

248,391,405 
140,  800,  000 

$113,345,135 
62,  656, 000 

$0. 4563 
.445 

45, 471, 807 
5, 000, 000 

$26,  805, 015 
2,  625, 000 

$0.  5894 
.525 

1,389,416,322 

1, 248,  616, 322 

TNT 

Black  powder 

Caps  and  fuzes 

Miscella- 

Year 

Lbs. 

Value 

Average 

contract 

price 

Lbs. 

Value 

Amount 

Value 

neous 
value 

du  Pont  Company, 
du  Pont  Eng.  Co 

47,  233,  505 
72, 000, 000 

$18,401,631 
21, 470, 400 

$0.  3908 
.2982 

8, 596.  294 

$2,  250, 348 

94, 881,  225 

$2, 543, 518 

$51, 163,  285 
108, 923, 599 

The  average  price  of  cannon  powder  on  contracts  taken  1915  to  1918  is  $0.5647  per  pound.    This  includes 
du  Pont  Engineering  Company  contracts. 


1914-18 

1914 

Lbs. 

1,401,817,231 

179, 580, 292 

226,  347, 940 

14, 940, 369 

$12, 400, 909 
3,  202, 055 
2, 360,  000 

1,822,685,832 
17, 962, 964 

17, 962, 964 

1,804,722,868 

Caps  &  fuzes 

M  iscellaneous 

Less  1914 

$8,  351, 768 
200, 035, 612 

208,387,400 
2,311,800 

206, 075,  600 
1,  226, 094,  753 

1, 020, 019, 153 

No.  contracts  1914-18 
50 
95 
92 
59 
90 
10 
82 
88 
73 
7 


646 
10    1914 


2984 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


03 

«5-«< 

Q 

& 

^  Ci 

o 

»•-.—> 

OCO 

O 

«—.— « 

O  CD 

o 

as 

O  C3 

OOJ 

Q* 

O  03 

•^  lO 

CJ 

£§ 

s§° 

2 

o 

1m 

6§2 

o 

o 

o. 

U<    " 

C^OO 

o 

•CO 

a>  1-1 

<Dm 

o 

c  « 

O5  00 

sa 

£ 

o'oT 

o 

8 

2S 

OS3 

03 

o 

•^S 

^ 

•*  >o 

XI  M 

fl 

05 

s 

o 

M 

CO 

^o 

J«!  fe 

4< 

82 

§a 

^ 

m** 

^§ 

i 

£^ 

£s 

tf 

sa 

3rH 

.     a  a 

-d  tl 

0*0 

■d  J 

ering 

1  debe 
holdi 

o'C 

1-2 
'S'C 
fees 

ic  ofl 

ed  to 
their 

.w  a 

2s 
•a  o 
®.a 

iS  a 

ja  3 
.£f>. 

tSS 

xa  3 

Ph      O 

PhP5 

o 

«m 

*o      t^                                                            c^ 

< 

OS         05                                                                                         -- 

a 

1             I                                                                                             t 

-£ 

do                                                     d 

.ti 

O     O                                                     O 

% 

■«    ■«                                    -a 

ki 

a     a                                             a 

■a 

a 

f>i 

m 

bn      bs                                                                bO 

P 

o      o                                                     S 

S    S                                             S 

PL^        P^                                                                                         PLH* 

1-4     i-s                                                  1-4 

1 

o     o                                                        «o 

lO 

1   1 

C4 

X!  >> 

■-  !s 

t- 

axt 

■OS 

O        O                                                                                 T)? 

■.*" 

^TS 

>o 

3§ 

1^-       "                                                                                 " 

CO 

■2  "3 

6^ 

*S  OJ 

o  C 

a  a 
o  o 

a 
o 

o      o                                                        o 

s  s                           s 

8 

P4 

o     o                                                        «o 

«? 

SB 

>o       o                                                                     t^ 

o> 

3 

M      t^                                                           m 

CO 

(infe 

Q 

cc      oT                                                           -H 

-*- 

in 

«                                                                    .-1 

*o 

«^ 

o      o                                                        >o 

lO 

03  © 

c^ 

So. 

s  s                            s 

00 

« 

o 

^    2                                         d" 

s 

t3 

€e^ 

1 

o      g                                                        o 

g 

« 

a 

g-     g-                                                       ^- 

u 

03 

(X, 

lo      o                                                        o 

lO 

€^ 

»o 

1      o                                                                m 

p      o                                                                t^ 

£ 

1        O                                                                                 lO 

03 

1       o                                                                          ^ 

,a 

1       o                                                                     o 

03 

■O      M                                                            M 

r;      o                                                            o 

S,      o                                                            o 

be     -^                                                               .^ 

CQ                                                                                                    CO 

2     £§                                          £2 

1 

. 

g,      D«»                                                           3«» 

a     a  c3                                            a  08 

P 

bonds 

6%     de 

callab 

6%     de 
callab 

;     '                                     '< 

1        (N                                                                                             ' 

■         05                                                                                                       [ 

a 

) 

P 

ly  1921. 
cember 

ril  1028. 

S     Q 

^ 

1 

a        ®. 


-  Ph  -3. 


^^ 

.1^ 

3 

■o 

■« 

— 

o 

.^ 

a 

n^ 

jq 

01 

fe 

PL, 

»-H 

ja 

3 
13 

o 

43 

X) 

•-H 

03 

"til 

O.ft'g 

^tOM  3 


w  9  9  c8 
—  a  a^a 

J3  t-  t-  w 
2  »  <aJ~i 


O  3  3  I. 

.,  O  O  03 

£  ti  fe  »■ 


£333 

i3  ti  fc.  >- 

■^333 
o  o  o  o 
S-OTS-a 

O)  O)  <V  03 

ja  bObfl  bO 

^     f.t     iM     tH 

ui  03  ^  ti 

3ja  xaja 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


2985 


Exhibit  No.  1111 

The  following  compilation  was  based  upon  data  contained  in  the  files  of  the 
Bureau  of  Internal  Revenue  and  indicates  the  net  taxable  income,  invested 
capital  and  the  percentage  of  net  income  to  invested  capital  of  the  following 
companies  for  the  years  of  1916-20,  inclusive: 

Metals  industry 
AMERICAN  BRASS   CO. 


Year 

Net  taxable 
income 

Invested  capital 

Percent  of 
net  in- 
come to 
invested 
capital 

1916  .    .              

$20, 128,  312.  54 
13,  427, 757.  04 
8, 180, 547.  30 
4, 102,  210.  74 
1,  213,  344.  51 

$39,  019,  675. 40 
56,  486,  517.  80 
61,332,495.44 
64,  376, 918.  03 
62, 049,  494.  67 

51.59 

1917..   

23.77 

1918                                    

13.33 

1919 

6.37 

1920                                       

1.96 

BETHLEHEM   STEEL   CORPORATION 


1916 --- 

$5,  504, 547.  56 
61,810,017.06 
16, 432, 934. 71 
12,  781,  779.  32 
12,  231,  527. 04 

$41,  726,  787.  83 
140,  792, 430.  42 
196, 294, 174.  07 
199,066,918.02 
202, 700, 997.  83 

13.19 

1917 

43.  902 

1918            -- 

8.371 

1919 

6.220 

1920                            .          .                 

6.034 

JONES  &   LAUQHLIN   STEEL  CO. 


1916 

$20,  254,  737.  65 
48, 869, 577.  22 
29,  654,  130.  20 
16,970,731.57 
32,  288,  372.  27 

$95,  356, 723.  61 
103, 057, 128.  74 
139,  540,  274.  53 
151,008,060.66 
153,  486, 461. 85 

21.  241 

1917 _ 

47.  420 

1918                                              

21.251 

1919 

11.  238 

1920 

47.  536 

Munitions  industries 
ATLAS   POWDER   CO. 


1916                             

$3, 169, 174.  52 

4, 530, 343.  95 

2,  564,  279.  90 

1,917,445.21 

969, 685.  55 

$16, 474,  773.  80 
16,  450,  745. 16 
18,  523, 948.  42 
18, 637,  358. 80 
19, 404,  281. 87 

19.  263 

1917 - 

27.  528 

1918 

13.  843 

1919           .  -              

1.029 

1920 

.499 

E.  W.  BLISS  &   CO. 


1916     

$9,  592,  853.  86 
1, 080,  650. 95 
1, 468, 041.  71 
2,  514,  445.  47 
1, 484,  657.  35 

$17,  230,  560.  90 
16, 846,  572.  07 
17,441,130.05 
18, 169,  812.  89 
20, 163,  844.  82 

5.56 

1917           .  .                            .          .                 -              .  -  - 

6.41 

1918 

8.42 

1919 

13.84 

1920.-                            ...                     -              .       . 

7.04 

COLT'S    PATENT   FIRE   ARMS   CO. 


1916 

$5,  799,  586.  38 

5,  797,  793. 87 

5,  693,  152.  17 

980,  844.  08 

843,  599. 98 

$9,  628,  756.  46 
8, 932, 106. 15 
11,113,685.68 
13,  308,  669.  69 
10,  516,  615.  22 

60.  231 

1917 -       

64. 910 

1918     

51.  227 

1919 

7.370 

1920  

8.022 

2986 


MTJNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Munitions  industries — Continued 
MIDVALE  STEEL  &  ORDNANCE  CO. 


Year 

Net  taxable 
income 

Invested  capital 

Percent  of 
net  in- 
come to 

invested 
capital 

1916 

$2, 904,  600. 94 
60, 454,  765. 97 
14, 389, 989. 03 
10, 282, 890.  67 
14, 070, 756.  23 

$129, 479, 256. 13 
139,  292,  249. 27 
168,  314,  504. 04 
159,  604, 072.  70 
166, 994, 164. 83 

02.24 

1917                                    

43.  401 

1918 

8.55 

1919 

6.4 

1920                                

8.42 

SAVAGE  ARMS  CORPORATION 


1916                             

$2,  964, 107.  38 
6,  517,  564.  54 
6,917,381.73 
1, 637, 129. 15 

(1,421,436.23) 

$14, 929,  583. 08 
10,  017,  299. 16 
15,810,910.17 
18, 400, 892. 97 
16, 062, 034.  07 

19.86 

1917           .-. 

65.08 

1918   

43.75 

1919..- 

08.9 

1920       

WESTERN  CARTRIDGE  CO. 


1916 

$650, 816. 08 

1, 107,  252.  35 

1,  598,  540. 96 

761, 802.  48 

(63,  566. 00) 

$1,  303,  400. 00 
3, 132, 521.  24 
4, 031, 494. 30 
4,  769, 855. 76 
4, 409, 887.  60 

49. 932 

1917 

35. 347 

1918       

39.  651 

1919 

15. 921 

1920   

0 

WINCHESTER  REPEATING  ARMS  CO. 


1916           

$2, 339, 018. 75 

(432, 831.  23) 

4, 934, 032.  21 

3, 828, 848.  44 

(116,  260.  02) 

1917       

$18, 878, 085. 88 
21,627,741.09 
22, 102, 929. 91 
30,  238, 258. 19 

0 

1918 

22.81 

1919       

17.55 

1920       

0 

Shipbuilding  industry 
BETHLEHEM  SHIPBUILDING  CORPORATION 


1917.. 

$569, 434.  06 

6,  741,  735.  53 

12,  627, 238. 17 

5,  692, 389.  07 

$16,  524, 826. 19 
16,  516, 053.  82 
19. 986,  231. 97 
32, 001, 040.  65 

3.45 

1918     . 

40.82 

1919 

63.18 

1920 .- 

17.79 

NEW  YORK  SHIPBUILDING  CO. 


1918       

$2,  984,  621.  08 
3, 852, 183. 13 
4,  270,  500. 12 

$7, 197, 649.  82 
7,741,951.50 
9, 123, 887. 24 

41. 466 

1919 

49.  757 

1920 

46. 805 

NEWPORT  NEWS  SHIPBUILDING  &  DRYDOCK  CO. 


1916 

$814, 891.  04 
3,  298, 601. 13 
3,990,311.27 
4, 916, 655.  58 
5, 764, 089.  69 

$4,  222, 557.  45 
3, 822,  549. 44 
5,  500, 091.  75 
6, 932, 791.  21 
7, 667, 134. 10 

19.30 

1917 -. 

86.29 

1918 

72.55 

1919.. 

70.92 

1920 

75.18 

Miscellaneous  Industries 
Shell  loading 

BETHLEHEM  LOADING  CO. 


1918 

$151,518.58 
20,  232.  24 

$41, 833.  33 
150, 161. 09 

362. 196 

1919 

13. 473 

MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  2987 

Exhibit  No.  1112 

Statistical  Section — Income  Tax  Unit 

individuals  reporting  net  income  of  $1,000,000  or  over  for  any  one  or  more  of  the  years  1917-1920,  showing 
names  and  addresses  as  of  1920  and  indicating  by  an  asterisk  the  years  from  1915  to  1920  in  which  net 
income  was  $1,000,000  or  over] 


Name  and  address 

1915 

1916 

1917 

1918 

1919 

1920 

• 

* 

: 

* 

Arbuclcle   Christina,  New  York  Citv,  N.Y          .          

* 

• 

* 

* 

Astor,  Vincent,  New  York  Citv,  N.Y            -.. 

* 

* 

* 
* 

* 

* 

Astor  Waldorf  New  York,  NY                                               .      ... 

* 

Baker,  George  F  ,  New  York  City,  N.Y        .  .              - 

* 

• 

# 

* 

Berwind,  Edward  J.,  New  York  Citv,  N.Y 

* 

* 

• 

• 

« 

* 

Bostwick.  Helen  C,  New  York  Citv,  N.Y.            ..    — -  .  

* 

I 

* 

* 

Bourne,  Frederick  O.,  New  York  City,  N.Y 

* 

I 

* 

* 

* 
* 

Chapman,  P.  A.,  Waxahachie,  Texas                 ..  -  .             .  - 

* 

* 

Clark,  William  A.,  New  York  Citv,  N.Y 

* 

' 

I 

* 
* 
* 

Cochran,  Alex  Smith,  New  York,  N.Y 

* 

Cowles,  Russel  A.,  New  York,  NY                         ... 

* 

* 
* 

Curtis,  Cyrus  H.  K.,  Wyncote,  Pennsylvania... 

* 

* 

* 

* 

Cutten,  Arthur  W.,  Chicago,  111 

* 

Dearborn,  George  S.,  New  York  Citv,  N.Y .  

* 

Dodge,  Cleveland  H.,  New  York,  N.Y                        .          .  . 

* 

* 

Dodge,  Mary  M.  H.  (Miss),  New  York,  N.Y 

* 

• 

* 

Duisberg,  Carl,  Leverkusen,  Germany           ..    ..     .. 

• 

* 
* 

I 

* 

* 

Du  Pont,  Mr.  Francis  Q.  (Elsie  W.),  Wilmington,  Delaware 

Du  Pont,  Pierre  S.,  Wilmington,  Delaware 

* 
* 

* 

* 

* 

Du  Pont,  Thomas  Coleman,  Wilmington,  Delaware        

Du  Pont,  William,  Wilmington,  Delaware. 

• 

Durant,  William  C,  Deal,  New  Jersey       .  . 

• 

* 

* 

* 

* 

Ehret,  George,  Sr.,  New  York,  N.Y              

Endicott,  Henry  B.,  Dedham,  Massachusetts 

* 

Ford,  Edsel  Bryant,  Detroit,  Michigan  

* 

Ford,  Henry,  Dearborn.  Michigan      .      . 

* 

* 

* 

* 

: 

* 

« 

Frelinghuysen,  Adaline  H.,  New  York,  N.Y 

* 

• 

* 

Frick,  Henry  C.,  Pittsburgh,  Pennsylvania 

* 

, 

Friedenheit,  Isaac,  New  York,  N.Y           ..    . 

Gates,  Dellora  R.,  New  York,  N.Y 

Goelet,  Robert  Walton,  New  York,  N.Y.  

* 

Grace,  Eugene  G.,  Betlilehem,  Pennsylvania 

* 

Gray,  David,  Grosse  Pointe  Farms,  Michigan . 

* 

Gray,  Paul  R.,  Detroit,  Michigan 

Gray,  Philip  H..  Detroit,  Michigan 

Green,  Edward  Ii.  R.,  Terrell,  Texas 

¥ 

• 

Grundy,  Joseph  R.,  Bristol,  Pennsylvania 

Hanna,  H.  Melville,  New  York,  N.  Y 

• 

Harkness,  .\nna  M.,  New  York,  N.Y                                    

* 
* 

* 
* 

* 

* 
* 
• 

* 

* 

Harkness,  Edward  S.,  New  "Vork,  N.Y 

« 

Harkness,  Wm.  L.,  New  York,  N.Y 

2988  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Statistical  Section — Income  Tax  Unit — Continued 


Name  and  address 

1915 

1916 

1917 

1918 

1919 

1920 

Harriman,  Mary  W.,  Arden,  Orange  Co.,  New  York 

* 

• 

* 

« 

Havpmever,  Horace,  New  York,  N.Y  

¥ 

< 

* 

' 

Hildrup.  William  T.,  Jr.,  Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania 

* 

Houser,  M.  H.,  Portlmd,  Oregon     

Howard,  Charles  S.,  San  Francisco,  California 

* 

V 

* 

Howard,  Fannie  Mav,  San  Francisco,  California 

* 

Huntinston,  Arabella  D.,  New  York,  N.Y 

* 

• 

* 
♦ 

» 

* 

* 

V 

• 

* 

» 

« 

Johnson,  George  F.,  Endicott,  New  York        

Julliard,  A.  D.,  New  York,  N.Y      .     --- 

* 

Kirkland,  J.  L.,  Wheeling,  West  Virginia      _  

« 

Lamont,  Thomas  W.,  New  York  Citv,  N.Y 

* 

* 

Lantz,  J.  B.,  Arkansas  City,  Kansas                

* 

Laphani,  Lewis  H.,  New  York,  N.1l        

* 

* 

Leggett, David  Q.,  New  York,  N.Y 

• 

Lewis,  Arthur  R.,  New  York,  N.Y.            

• 

Marland,  E   W.,  Ponca  Citv,  Oklahoma 

* 
* 

Mather,  Samuel,  Cleveland,  Ohio              ..  

* 

* 

* 

McFadden,  George,  Philadelphia,  Pennsylvania 

♦ 

* 

McFarlin,  R.  M.,  San  Antonio,  Texas  - 

* 

V 

McLean,  William  L  ,  Philadelphia,  Pennsylvania 

* 

* 

« 

* 

Ik 

* 
* 
* 
* 

* 

• 

* 

Metcalf,  Manton  B  ,  New  York,  N  Y            

Metz,  Herman  A  ,  New  York,  N.Y             

* 

* 

Mills,  Ogden,  New  York,  N.Y        .      -- 

* 

Monell,  Ambrose,  Tuxedo  Park,  New  York..  

Moore,  William  H  ,  New  York,  N.Y         

* 

Morgan,  J.  P.,  New  York,  N.Y        

* 

Morrell,  A.,  Tuxedo  Park,  New  York      

Nichols,  William  H  ,  New  York,  N  Y          

Oliver,  Edith  A.,  Pittsburgh,  Pennsylvania 

Osborn,  Alice  D.,  New  York,  N.Y        - 

» 

Palmer,  Edgar,  New  York,  N  Y -  -. 

* 

* 

V 

Patten,  James  A  ,  Evanston,  Illinois               - 

: 

^ 

Plant,  Morton  F.,  New  York,  N.Y              

Price,  Michael  G.,  Philadelphia,  Pennsylvania 

* 

Prentiss,  Francis  F  ,  Cleveland,  Ohio 

• 

f 

Rainey,  Paul  J.,  New  York,  N.  Y -- 

* 

Rainey,  Roy  Alvin,  New  York,  N.Y         .     

Rea,  Edith  Oliver  (Mrs)    Pittsburgh,  Pennsylvania . 

I 

Reid,  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Mills,  Purchase,  N.Y  -     _  .  _     _ 

* 

* 

* 

Rockefeller,  John  D  ,  New  York,  N.Y        ...  ...  

* 

* 

* 

* 
* 

* 

Rockefeller  John  D    Jr    New  York   NY                         . 

* 

: 

I 

\ 

* 

* 

* 

* 

* 

Ryan,  Thomas  F  ,  New  York  NY                  ..          .  

* 

* 

Schiff,  Jacob  H    New  York  NY                                                ... 

* 

* 

Sinclair,  H.  F.,  New  York,  N.Y               ..     

* 

Smathers,  Elmer  E.,  New  York,  N.Y                         

* 

* 

Steel  Charles  New  York  N  Y 

* 

...*.-. 

* 

I 

* 

Straight,  Mrs  Dorothy  Whitney,  New  York,  N.Y                     .  . 

Taylor,  Henry  A.'c,  New  York,  N.Y 

* 

MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  2989 

Statistical  Section — Income  Tax  Unit — Continued 


Name  and  address 

1915 

1916 

1917 

1918 

1919 

1920 

I 

* 

* 

* 

Vanderbilt   Frederick  W    New  York  NY 

• 

Vanderbilt   William  K    New  York,  N  Y                                 

* 

* 

* 

* 

, 

* 

* 

* 

* 

» 

* 

* 

I 

* 

* 

Wilks   H   Svlvia  A  '  H   G     New  York   N  Y 

Willys  John  N    Toledo  Ohio 

* 

* 

Woolworth   F  W    New  York  N  Y 

* 

* 

* 

1 

2990 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


<H 

rt 

(4 

c» 

-< 

M 

K 

w 

n 

>< 

M 

O 

t») 

-< 

W 

CO 

o  > 
O 


OOOOOCOOOOOOO 
OOOOCOOOOOOOO 
OOtOOOtNOiOOOOOO 


cNOh-cofot^r^O'OOOo 

0iOC0C0-«J'Q0C0O>OOO00 


g  aag  ag  ag  s  aag 
aoo  ao>  ao  aaoo  a 

oggogogooggo 

oooooooooooo 

§§nS°-§-.ggoS8 


.a  oiS 

o  o  o  o  a  o 


■o 


(U 


OT3 

a^ 

■  <=>  9 
o  o  a 


CO     C^  "^  CD     t-^  00  CO  <N  C^l  Cft 

1-t  rH  C^      ^<NCS^CS 

o    o  o  o    Ooo©®o 

o  o  o  o  ^ooqq:z; 


o 

a    d 


?.a: 


Z    e 


3    S    § 
tf  £  H 


9  2^5  9m 
fe  Ph  ;<5  m  pt<  t> 


-— I     (N     CO     ■<}*     »0  CO  t^  00  0>  »0 


oooooooooooooooooo 

OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCOO' 
OiOOOOOINOOOXiOOOOOOO 

oc^foooor^iooufoc^fooo'icoo 
oai'or^»oooc4ocs'*aso^ooooo 

t^^HQ0OOO0i0iC0C00i^t^C0G0»0CS05 


lO  IC       »0  ^H  lO  ^o 

or^t^ot^oocoooor^oooot^oo 

OOSOsOOsOOt^OOOOOiOOiXOSOO' 


'  -C  T3  T:?  "d  TS 

rS  a  c  fl  o  fl 
a  d  3  d  3  3 

3  o  o  o  o  o 

5  aaa  a  a 

ao  o  o  o  o 
_,oo  o  o  o 
gooo_oo 
o  oooo'o 
-,-oo- 


t^  -^  CD  ' 


-  o  o 


'^  '^  "3  '3  '3  r»^  '3  '3 
3o33ooooo3oo 

gaggc^^f^'^^oO-o. 
ao  a  ao  o  o  o  o  ao  o 

_o_,_ooooo_oo 
g  O  g  O  o  0,0,0^ o_g  o,o 
C^OOOCOOOOOOOO 

-o_r,^t~oooo_^oo 


-o    -o  cs    -■ 


)  cn- 


'cccc^-^cor^^co^co 


'5  1=1 


'Oo      lOo&O      '00( 


^  «2  t^    '  ^ 


6  o  o  6  6  o  6 


rt  cq  rt  N 


S^.  g  S  S~  "~  ^  <D  a  <o^,^  <B  a  <B  <s> 


.2— oogdod 
w^'3'3  a'^  o'^ 
30    I    1  2    '  -    ' 


^  i^"  ca  o^  "  §  ° 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 


2991 


■oooooooooooooooooooicr^oo-^ooooot^ooooooooooooiooooooooo 


■OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOC^COOOOGT'^COOOOGOO 


COC^OOOOCTtOOOOOOOOOOO' 


-OOiO»OOOOOr 


OOOOOOOOOOC^OOQOOOO 
— -JO  O  O  OlO  O  lO  o  o  o  o  o 


Wr-000(N^OO«:iu3«DOOOOOO(NCr5iO 


OOX>i05000t-r-I>-OOOCOCOiOi— iO00CO»OTfi-«C^iO         f-icDCSI>-COiO.-« 


I^t^OC^liC^OfMOCSr-iOOOCiOOT-HOiOiCOO 


.  ■-!  O  O  00  (M  CO  O  C^  QOCO  >-' CS  GO '^  00  Oi  O         (M  lO 


ICOC^O^OiOOCOiCCSOlOlOiO 


iO  >-<  ^H  .-(  !D  f-»  T-H  " 


^  lO  .-'  C*  lO  1-1  »o 


C^  »— t  CJ  00    O  00  Oi  05  CO  ■*  ":■    t-t  T-(  00  OS 


OOoOOOOOTt^OOt-OOOOOOOOOO      .OOC0  00<:/5C0  00»0OOr^cDO<-''-<O^OTHOi0t^t^t^O^i-HOiO»Ot;^t^ 

■OSOiOOOOSi-"OOOSOOiOOOi00505r-iT-HOr^OOir-cnOClC^C^OCSOO^O.-HoOiOiOOOsa>00000'^eDtC'Cs» 

*       ■  i-I  i-H  ^'       *  r-^  i-H  rH       '  .-5       '       '       '  rH       '       '  .-H*  ^ „*  '       '  „ — '-^ 


0000O.SS000S000 
ft  O,  ft  ft^  ggftftftgftftft 
00000  ftftoo  o  ftooo 

*"*■ — •  f^  ' — <  ' — .  000, ,000 

300^00  0 


d  u  fl  c 

3  d  3t3  c  5 


S  d  '^ 
ftftftftB  p  p  5  o  3  oc 


o  o  o  o  G  5  : 


g  g  §  §  §0  o  ^J^^^^2  '~~ 

00  00' CO  o  o  0000  cTo  o 

<D  -^l^  O  O  QO  -<-_rO  O  O  .rTO  O  O 

00 -__o^o  5^-  g  o  o_c^_o  g  =1.'".° 


0000  g  ftas  0-9  fto 

0000  D.,     _,  Q._  ft_o 
0000      t^o      O      O- 

_-~i- ~>~<CO  CO  o  o  o  o  o  o 
OOOOrM-rrOOQOOOO 

"=^.^"-l'-l—  o  o  o  o  '-0  rt  o 

CSeOC4lO^HC^IGOCOfOCDC>lC^ 


Sap 

o  3  3     ,  -     , 
D.O  go  0.0 


n  m  a  a 
axs  3  3 


,00000c 


000  ^-o  ^."-i^-o ' 
000000000c 
,--0  "O  o  _ro  000  ( 


3  a  a  3  3'H  o  a  3  3 
a^gD.a3oo  »a 

o  D.  Go  o  g  P<  P.O  o 

°88S°o§§§l 

OOOOOOOOOQ 

g^'o'-gl^'^lo'o'gg 
^*oo  o  "-,    .0  o  o  ^-^ 

C^OCOCCCCIOCOCOOOC^ 


a  o   ,  „   , 

O  Oo  o  o 

a  a5T3  g-cfH' 
go    ;g    ;;2; 

o5  ;o  ;e-i 


2  ° 


:« 


o  ^  a  — 
^00 


a> 


o  a^ 
S  d  o 
00" 


I   I  fl   .   I  ,  s  o  o  S   I   •  a  .   .   '  ft  '  '   ■   ;  o   I S  d  g 

I    iqo    'o  o  0P.00    'i5..  oof^L.  i5  S     f^    rood 

<H      '03^      '  '  3— lrt3<^QJ^      '      'Qj^  o)  C3©cd  — ^^c3— ^ 

I       loiO-^O  »0  r^      (>)      Cft-rt^OO       |       1       i',-h       J  00  ^       ifNOt*--!       I       I 


Co 


o-o 

■    ■  «  2 
o  o  o  n 

,'   .'So 


<cioaie<iO'*o  ,_      -    - 

C^  (N         ^  (M  r-l  CS  Cq      it-HCC         IM     C^     CS 


S  §  V;§§^^^<^<-:^<S;S  g  S  I  lllmi' 


OS  CC  O  10  N  lO  00 


~       --33     1     r     .333  ^XX 
-si-jCqOOi- 


,  o  o-g.S  g 


g.|3S^og§o 


—  n     ^,  to      O  OlJ   O   O    O^  •   O 

c«  .H    S  ~  ■ox)    .•co-a^TS 

s  a  °  «    !  .'  a  .'  '  .  .  ' 

M  TO  !2  w    I  K  ;  I  ;w 


O         ^ 


'  00.2  350  »< 

^,  M  '£i  d  CO  bf"^ 
'  303  ®    .5 


0.2  d 


05  O  rH  C<J  CO -^  10  «3  I-*  00  05  O  1— I  C^  CC  ■**-     10     o     t^ 

cj  M  ec  CO  cc  cs  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  ■*  ■«<  re  ■*  Tt"  m< 


_:)C7iO^MCO-'**lO  50  r^000SO^(NC0'<J*iOCDt^000>O-H(NC0 


2992 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


o  > 
O 


OO        OOOCOOOO  O-J  oo< 
OO        O  OO  lO  O  O  O  05  O  OiO  c 


:oooot^oooooo-<ocooo     ooo  —  c 


OO         OOT-HIMOC 


>OOOC^CCOOOOOOCC00GC» 


OOOCO< 


'*0050»OOOOiOO-<**050I^i^OOOiOOOOC^O        OOCDCSC 


OO   CO  CS  as  00  CO  O  00  (N  r^(N  GO  c^  t^  »o  o  cc  a> 
lO  O   00  lO  O     C^  00  O  as  05  CD --<  ^   io»o 


rP  CC  O  "^  »0  »0 


I  o  o  »o  o  t^  Tfi  ascoc^i      »o c^  OS o» »o OO 

-   — ^OSCO        ■^^HTfCOOOCD 


OOO'J'iOOOOO^ 
--H        00  C^  CS  i~ 


ot^      ^oot^oo^ooooooot^oor^oocDOO^ooor^o 

CC  Oi         00  ^ -^  C^  C^  O  OOOiOS  OiOSO  C^  C^  t-H  O  OCl  O  CT)  »00000  O  (M  c^ 


05  O  C^l  ooo  OS 


'C'C  'O 


oTj-o  3  2  2  3 
a  3  3  g  g  d  3  ttg. g. g 

ooo33ooo'*"'^    . 

OO     n  ft  a  g  g  a  ft-H  o  OO  o 

OO        ^  _  _  a  0._  _  — I  OS  o  o  o 

■=L°      §Sooo  g§  CO-*. '".'=. ° 

OO        O  O  O  O  O  O  O  CO  CC  lO  o  o 

~    "  _-_-_-0  0  _-_-«CO  CJO  o 

ooo      -^^^-Q  O      -CO  CO  CD  lO 

Oco  r~00  Ooo  co^-^-    .    - 

CO'-fC^COCO"*TfCC'-H»-I^Cs| 


o  o 


a  a  a 

3  3m 

O  Oo 


•o 


O-C  3 

aa  g 

o  o  ;io  o  g  o 
o  o  g  oo  P.O 
°  °  ^°  o-o  =v= 
oooooooc 

H  IOC 


a  a  a   , 

3  3  3t3" 

c  o  o  c  a 

aac.3  3 

ooo  g  g 


O    &0 

o'oS- 
o  -oo 


c  a ; 

o  3o  aoo 
o  go _ oo 
^  no  S  o  o 


ooo  lOOO 
<N  O  ■*      -oo 

-rp  <^)  G  <P  CO 


=     ■   a 
a    ■ 
«;  ph  -^ 


g'S 


a 


a^ 
^•a  § 


,■«    , 

^  •>  1-t 

Ol   ?   CD 
T3  O-O 

"  «  g 

o  a 


M 


)  a  o  a  '  o  i2  .^  o 

I  a  g  <uH~  <i>-5'« 


a 


56h 


a     c  a     a  M     ^ 


5  ifC  C  5  K  2:  £  S  pii 


a  G  '^  2 
c  —  a  aw 

a  a     »  fflH 

ci'S'SS'SZ 


I-.     1-H     (M       11-1  CM      CO     CO 


2  S 


a.o  a  a  a  a 


0^0^010) 


Sg  aS 

cc  t-  03  a> 


o 
as 


■3^ 


o   M 

a  t. 
X     - 


«  S  2;wt>tS; 


t^  t^  t^  t^    t^ 


Oi  O --«  C^     CO     -^  uO  CO  r>- QO  01  O     '-<     C'l  CO -^  10  O  t^ '-'         o 

"     OOOOCO     00     OOOOOOOOoOQOOi     OS     OSOSOSOidOSCO        Oi 


s  a^"o  >  a  S  M 

tt  coojocaopp 

GO  OSO-hC^COtJiiO' 

OS  05000000 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


2993 


oooit^ooor^oooo 
oc^  CO      r-"  CO  as 


000000000000050000000000^»0»OQ 
O^OOOOOOOOOO0iOO-^CDOOOOOO»O-rpr^Q 
(M.OOOOOOt^O(MCOiOOQOO'^iOt^OOO»OOOOOOiOOO 

cca?c-fooT-H*Qodoccccc^ioodoo50^(N-^i^(NOcoo^o 

(N  lO  Ci  O  O        O  ^  CO  CS        ^rt        O  00  — I        U5  (N  (M  r-»  (M  t^  r^        CO 


ot^M—<t^r~otoooo 


or^'-^oooioo      eoooooooo»ocooooioc^t^oooo^^t^Orii 


OOSC^  C^  05  »0  (N  O  M  O  OC^I  OC^  OC^  IM  CS  lO  (N        t^  lO  05  lO  t^  (M  Oi  >C  tJ*  M  (N  CS  CC  Cv|  00  00  OO  O  O  O  CJ  M  O -^  05 -^  O 


s=>  ?  § 

o  -o  c, 
ooto  _ 
oooo 

CO  'H  ^^  M  C 


oo  g  oi  ao  a  p. 
'=°0-'"o'=oo 
ooo>ooooo 

OfMOCMOOOO 


g  0  g  O  3^^  3 
ft30.3oSS3 

oOooa"^° 

-oo  ' 


•a -a 

3  3^ 
3  3c 

o  o  g 

OO  ad 
oo^  c 

oooo 

"  -  °  p 


•o  c  g 

5  o-o 

o  go  a 

8  aSg 

o'  o  o"  o 
oo  o  _- 
p  p  oi  o 


■va 
0  c 
3  3 
c  o 

aa 

oo 


3  3  3  3 
3  3  3  3 
oooo 
aaaa 
oooo 


0  3, 
3  3 


O  oo  O  :c  O 


C  3  C 

o  a  o~ 

O         S      lO^^O'-'^ 

oooSooagoaa 

^    0  o  g  o  o  _  ao .-  —  ^  o 

-(M  ac^    -o       -too  D.(-^ 

-    ._5oooo(NO  ""-i 

oooogoooo^cjoo 

oooco->r_roo-_-oo 

00  C3:  —  ^,'0  ^-     -^  C  [^  c^ 


<COrt  (N        —  • 


^^H^lOC-lt^CS.-HrHtO'<*'CC^HCOOO^HiJ'r-i^HCC 


I  "O  t^* 


:  a  ao  o£  a 

o  o  ^  fto  o  ^ 
-53  3^,  <c  a  u.^, 

:g^2g3^=i 


a  n 

3^ 


_  a 


o  o  o  o  o  o  a. 


O  !S  o 

ag  a 


P5QC 


QKPMm 


^■^   5    ra    13; 


i-H  CD  O  QC -^  IM  CO     »0     CO 


ai<!Mt>2000  O   O    lO 


OS  C^  lO  05  r^CD 
.irt        rt  IN 


CO     »0     OS     ^ 


•ooooooo 


o  o  u  o  o  c5  o 


>(>Ofc.>xt>!>!>ooo>    >    , ^_-_ 

O  OTJ  O  O  oS  O  O  CCCU  oooo*    'V'^  0573  a» 


>;a' 

Stored  M^ 
ca  3  S     •  3 


O  o 

^  ri  ti  9    • 

3  '-'  3  g-o 


O  o 


^>. 


"   -C"  3-35^00000  dd-S    §  dSoBS'^dEjjodd 

o*i:o+^Q      'g    i    i    i    .    .    .    .3     be  '3     '  -^  i^^-^    <3'I3    '    '    ' 

oBocSw     '0'ii''i'c3a  lo'caC.'oitj'ii 

-'•    " '-  "  '^  ;o^|3  '.Of,  '  '  ' 


o  w 


i3     tJ)   T3     o 
cu     3    -O    -g 

pa  H  w  £ 


^=3 


.      '"3   CD 

w  :sp 


>t^XOSO-H(M     CO     "TfiOCCt^OOOSO^C^COTT-iOcor^     00     050^INCO'^»OCDt^OOOSO'-H     C^     CO     -^     locor^oooso^ 


H  CS  C^  Ol  M  C^J  (N  IM  CS  CS  (M  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  C 


2994 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 


o  > 


»'3 


OOQOO 
"OQOOO 


^O)  O  CO  (N 


lO  .-H  O  O  »o 
O  lO  lO  CO  »o 


O  OOOO 

°-o8oo 

O  CM  ^-^  O 
r-^  C^  <-<  'V  -V 


■^  OSOCO  o 
1-t  (N  CO  IM  CO 


O  O  O  O  t) 
O)  O)  (D  O)  <U 

OQPPQ 


:c^cDr^w5ooo»o»ooooOwO»ooooo^oc: oo; 

3^^        ^tOOlC^iOO^OOlOOOGOOOOO^OOOOC 


H  o  o  o  -^  CO  c 


J  OO  O^OOUO  rt 


C0(X'*tn«3O»^3Q0C^OO^ 


(N  O  IC  CO  I 


.n<  rt  «e-) 


^lor-ooot^o'ooc'iooo'oc^oooo 

O-^OSOOOiOOlOCCOSOOC^OOOOOOiO 


■o-a 
^  a  a^  3  0    '—9  5. 

C  3  d  o  c  3 

g  o  o  S  a  o      ^ 
ao  lo  ao  lo  o  acM  o 


3  fl  n  a'5'2'2  c 


3  c 

5d 


3T3 

S  13 
a  3 

,-  _  - ^„o'o° 

aaa_^5_ ^oica 


!.»00000— OtOi 


.1^  ^   *-C^)  O  C4   O  O       -^  r. 


^C^Tf^f-HC^liOOCS: 


)  t^  00  ^  -l"!!^  u5  S  >o  ^.'-.o 


C3  O 

a  a 


•3  >^   O  O  C 
3^     ■     ■     ■ 


s-ta  oi  5  ai 


S  o  a 


o  O  o  o  '^  ^  o 


aa  S 

CO  csS 

OOP5 


CO     (N  "COOIC-*  00 


lO  O  l^CC  (M  t^ 


o  o  o    •  o 


G'O'O'Cd'O     d     (3Cfl 


o 

§|s.2a 

;oi:  »  3  a 
■a  a;-S  o  ca 


c^  cc  ■*  o  t^ 

IC  O  lO  U2  l^ 


SI 


go 

as 


agssaa 

-  .   ■   -2  -2   .     o'.S  ts  -.5  (u.5^  « 

c3    .■j;c3a)c33    .ox;^23caajo'oar! 


1^ 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 


2995 


OOOOOOOOOOOO'JDO'OOOOC^OOOOOOOOC'lOOO'OrtOOOOO^OOOOO 


^2K?^  ooooioooc; 


O-^OiCNO^— 'OO'^0rJi0CN'^OI--OOOOC 


1^  O  O  Ol  iC  o  o  o  »c 


O  O  lO  -—  o  o  < 


30C^05000t--t-OOC 


-  O  O  O  O  O  t 


OiOiOOxPcC— 'COC^ 


CO  .— >         !-•  o  o 


O  «^  O  lO  lO  Ol 

»o  »o  ;d  o  TT<  CO 


oo--*  »o  lO  o  o 

CO  00  'X  O  -^f  QO  OO 


-      -- - O**        CIOOO 

^Tj«^ccioocot>-»ccOir;cco-^cOO       co?ccD?o 


iC*Ot--000>"^'— 'dOOCCI 


»ootooiceooo-*oO'^ 

lOr^iOW3SD»OC0CC»O»-<C0 


3  fl  a  p.§  w  o 
ClO  o§  '^o  "^ 
o  -o      o 

O  «^  lO  lO  o  o  o 
cj  oj  r-  c-i     -  o    - 

OO  CS  TT  --H  rH  (M  CN 


C2  3  cl  TJ   c   ^  '^ 

-"  3  s  3  s  g 


c^  c:  q  o  3  q  g  G 


-    _;  w    "^    ^ 

0300c^jl— otAoogP-cSy  — 

ago.  aoi  c  ao  a  a  3  o  a  g  r-  - 


?cCO  O 


c  3  o  a 

.  3  O  =!  3 

o  g  ag  go 


-Oi 


ooooo^ooo 


O  O  o:  oT  R  R  o  > 


•a  -rcooo 


•  ^  ^  •'^  00 


O00000i"-C5~-O0'     ~- 

OOOOOCiOliOOOOOOOO 


aag 
oo  a 


OiOoocr.  ooo< 


-loco    ilM^O 

-H  t^  CO  C^  CI  —  M 


■d  o   - 

C  3X!        3       TJ 
3  c  c  K  o 

5  ag-o  ft 
ao  g  Hod  g 

_o  a 300  ft 

8°-og°*o 
coo  ftooo 


o  01 '       .   , 

^H  CM  t^  .—  CO 


t3 

»  >-  »  fe 

o  I  ^  ?  a  >  ft 


o  a  o 

fto  a 


O  O  C)  o  o 


o 


o  ° 

a* 


;x:agftcgci+jc    ij    it:  at:   ;  c  g   ;  t: 
>o,^a,_oaooooi2co..  oooaoo 

.3ijSi2S2j53«     '"3     '3^3     .mS     .3    ^ 

;ona:ffl02iooo  iph  :op;o  :ocj  ;o  e^ 


^ 


^H-<J<io      i^-.CO^^O-^'OaS'-HrjO'^r-^m— 'CO     CO     ^^OS     cs     ^^o 


IC^^IM         C^^-H.-.C-l 


a*  >.  i-i 

I*  a  > 


CO 
ftte 


•o-S  e-c 


10    (N    r^ 


^%^ 

ftT3  ft 

ego 

,      .   O  ^   O   o 

at,  a  fto 

3^  0:  CO  03 


5  ooSw 


0(Mco^oo»oo    c^    cocoes 

CM        CMCOflMCO  ^        c<» 


^1s§S  'S^^^^S^^^^^^-H^  5  <<  r%  SS  :S  &  <g  '000  i^oooooo  o  ^oz  ' 


-  >  a  ti 

s  a  •-; 


O  O  JJ  CO 


g^K  op 


S  c  ^-o   .3  ^:  g-c 


£?« 


•COx5'a^m5>>a-Cj=j3  >.'S,  Oi 


(u    'cd    .<i'a3t-^a>o3o3ajR^c33i 


►5     5t3-; 


lis    c 


ce  w  oj 


0*0 


Pm  i^O  tJ  Otq^tJ  W  <1 


^  3  <1  a  g  g  <^, 
■-03  .  c3  2  2  • 
8  'S'»  "5,  >.  S  CO 
o)  a    .  c  c3  3   . 


O 

c    :  ="2 

■*^  g  bi 

f^-  ■    L,  ^^     I- 

xi   CO  St^  ® 

T3     ^-  "S  03  <U 


■^k0^t*oc'0s0'-*c^f0'^u:>cot^aoo5c;'- 'Oico    -^    ices    r-    aioiO'— i    m    co-' 
oooooooooooooioioioiOiOiOiOiOiOsoooo    o    00    o    00   -   ^    — ■      " 


Ca  C^  !M   (M   CI  C^ 


;^t--.occ:o— 'C^Ico■^ 


I  C^  iM   M   CS  C^  C-I  Ol  C 


CI  C^  CS  CM  C)  C^  CI  c^  c-'t  c» 


I  (M  CS  CS  C^  CN  CI  (M 


■^  OC  CD  O 
^  .  J^J  Ct  C»  CO 
CM  CI  C^  CM  C^ 


83876— 35— PT  13- 


2996 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 


ooooooi^o«:;cccooco-<i*oocsoc^* 


o  > 

o 


COCOOCO         O  OCC  00  »OC>l  O  05  »OC^  CO         OM 


3 

a 

'+3 

o 
U 


OS     W 


9'a 

O  O  3 
go  p. 

^Sgg    __ 

O  C  O  O  O  O  O 

'=goo§o'^- 

O     -C  O     -OiO 
C^  CO  o  »o  *--  "O  cc 


1 0  O  O  C' 


P5^ 


n,i.'  o  c  o 

3^  3  3  3. 
o  s  o  o  Oo 

C.  g  C  &  Co  < 

O  CO  "O  o^-i! 

J  -*■  O  O  O  Ci  o:  c 

:-H-go-o-a:°S 

:  c^  ^Ic  cc  o  r- 

;  CI  CO  »c  .— <  t—  CO  c 


z; 


Zl"  & 


it^t^T3<Ot^05^0 


^  C^  CO  (M  C^        r-.  C^  T 


I  (M  ^C^         •-! 


ooooooojojocoiat© 

:^j^oooz;QCo:z;QPP 


>1    K-» 


do    [^     d. 

sc-  2    a 

°«      c 


s  ^ 


«    .  t-5^  cs        .  c       t--^        .       t,  a  ° 
n-it'ic.-i.ai'C     -ti     a  a 


to       r^  —  t 


^c^icc-^iOtor^ocoio^tMfO 

fOCCCOfOCOCOCCCOCO— ^-f-^f  


OOOOIMOOOOOOOOOOO 
»0000<C-^OCSO»OOOiOOO 

t^'OcoO'-'C^^»o*c^oc^^oo(^^oo 


OOsOO^^OiOCDUOO-^OOOO-^ 
OCO«O^HCO^^^COOOO;CO»CO 


o  a  c 

§§§ 

o'o  &. 
goo 


•a  0-a 

z;3R§'g3 
m  ao  a  3  a 
oo£:;o§.o 
o  o  -o  o 
O  C^  CO  o  o  o 
ooSo'go 

"0.-C  ^-O      -co 


"^■^^ 

a  p^  a  «  a 
335333 

o  o  3  o  o  o 

a  o.  o  p.  a  a. 

o  o  '^o  o  o 
o  c  o  o  o  o 


^  rt  10  t-r^  CO- 


00  o  o  »o  o 


o 

a 

•  «  a 
!  o  o 


&  a 

aS 


■S  3  S  a  ,2  3  Z  ^  S^-o 


.-1   CSI   r-(1-H   W  C^  1-H 


■— «  lO  05  i-H  Tt<- 


a  p  fl  fl  a  a-^ 


,  M'OTj  03  <i>  w  aj  cu 

;  fi,  fi4  ^  f^  fs. 


0  a 

01  MTD 


g  p 


•O^  o 


a,- 


^  p  a«<i 


—  Tj  O'O^  3  few  X'Ow'^'O  fl1^ 

2  p  MgX'bi^S-a     ,  g-OM  §  M-O 
PcsPQ^cdPQ^'O    'q^t:;    .a-pT^ 

■^»ooocj;Oc^cOTj^»otot^oooiO^ 

rt«Tt*-^-^»0»OiO>0»0'0»0»O^COCC 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 


2997 


OOOOOOOlOO^>nOOCEOOOOOOOOOOCOOOOOOOO^-OOOOOOOOT)<OU50^-0000 


ooooooor^oio^o^»ooooooi^» 


t^OOrrOOiO*OO^CSO»00000' 


IOOiOO»000000000050000COOCnOOOOr^OOOOOOO 


300t^GO'OOCO,Nt^asOOt^0500C^OOCOOail^OOOM*'^CO-«r»OI^OO»00 


0?DCOC^aO^CSC^O«^OOO^^OOiOCOt^C^CO^^>-H-^OOiOiW^»OOCD05C 


usc^os^Hocr^^-tr^ioco 


OCO^OOOiOCD        CS 


-^       eOO^»0 

3        lO  00  O  CO 


_  -I  «3o  CO  o  a>  •", 


coco»«OTrcoo-<j<o^co":'cooccc^»o»0'^cocso 


■*  o  ao  ^H      o  «o  •«}<  ai  00  ■* -^  o  o  »-i      ioo50»oo»o 


lO  CO  »o  CO  »o 


005»CCOCO«DCOC^CT)CO(N05D»OCOMCOCO*OOI^«OCOCs|«OCD»CCO 


■o 


■0  3'  _  „  - 

C    O'O'C    O    r^    o 

a  aa  n  ag  p. 

ao  g  g  o  ^  o 
j_jO  P.ftogo_ 
o  o'  o  o  o  o  o  o 
»ooooo_^co-<*^ 


„j  „j  C3  O  'O  „^ 

D  s  (^^RRa  S  H 
a &0  0  0  ag  g 

o-'oo'=§§o'^» 
o  o  o  o  o  ^   .o  o  o 

OiCOOCDiCOO'OC' 
/— 1  —  ■»wf^^^^-^^^r^^-,c 


■0•0'a  s 

p  a  a  S 

3  3  3 


:  CO  T-.  TtH  rH  » 


■O  o  o  o  ^ 

la  aa  ao 

Sooogog 
_  gooo    -o    ._ 
o  ao  O  O  O  O  O  CC 

^Roo-o-o'S-'gnc 

^IM^HCOC^'-ICO^HOiO(NCOW:>'^'-tiC<Jic 


c^  p  a 

pXI  DM  o  3  o  o 

3  P  S^  ag  aa 
gaagoO-oo 

ago  goooo 

o'^Sa°-o°-'='- 

o  o  ^.  "o    -  o  o 


-U   P       r       I       , 
O  O      ■  i"      ' 


CI  fe 

^°5 


o  fc  ° 

agS 


"="=    o 


T3  I-TS 

H  t*  ^  fe  ^-l  fe  ^ 

O)  CS  -rt  t>  OJ  P  OJ 

■O  O  t-   013  CO 

fe  ag  a^  ft^ 

g  p  ap  g  p  g 

a  o  ,^  o  ft  o  a 


ga>H'^tHjqPg.g-£gt5s^gg'0E^-gog-3^C'0§CEHSggE-'ajC-gp<Ba^ 

Sta':7S>:7apgiiS2"^>7SO     '>7c8<n2C"0    'HC»i>-'^c;x>7(pPSP<nPn3 
3r:Z5^o3a33^^-j:^^Z3o3    'ZS~3ca^o3    •3tsAp«o<.—  ca— cflScaSd 


^t^O     O     I^C^:00{MCD 


CO-^Ot^wOCOC^tOtOfM-"^.— I      i'^O0000^'-'»CiCO^^C^(N     i-l     »CC^COGO     O 


'  ^  i-H         (M  rt 


ca  CC  rt  ^  ^  c3  rt 


aaaaa-o  «  a  a, 


^«^>-,Tifc',«a^ii(ac3a:BpPPpi?C_c3     P     PCPJC     p 


gSSS^SS  ^S<^<<^  :S^^2SS^S^S^?S  ;SSS5S55555^^S  S  S555  S   S 


o 


oO 


T3 

"a  ®     „ 
g||||«| 


Op 
^■2 


«  >.w  >..o  >,^  >.^g  >■ 


O  o 

.  ■  a  ■  :< 
>>  £?5  B-  >>  <D 


5'^ 


..  a„.^     .^„    ^^     „^„     ^    ._     -^„     ^^*<  6i2^"SoO^  gZ-5  !z; 


cu  «  cj-o  »  o  ti 


>>>>   >.   >> 


>  3    > 
c3  n  03 


_<<    a 
ta    .    p 


W  CO  TJ*  »0  CD  t^  00  Ci  O -— '  OJ  CO  "*  »C  t- CO  00  ai  O  ■— I  C^  CO  ■^  lO  CD  r- 00  Ol  O  >— <  C^  CC  "^  lO  CO  I-*  CO  Oi  O 


cctococoococo    to 


.  t^  r-  t^  r-  r-  r-  h-  I 


CS  CS  CS  (N  CN  CS  C^  C^  CS  Ol  (N  CM  <N  <M  CmM  C<t  <N  (N  C 


,OOOOOOOOGOOiO:OiOiOiOi0505  0iOiOO     O     O^     .  _ 

ICNCMCMCMiTitNCSiMIMCNCNCNCS'MCMCOCO     CO     COCOCOCO     CO        CO 


SS8 


2998 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


C3000iOOOOOOOiOOOOOOOOOO»000»OOt^C^JOOOOOOOOO 
000>OOlOOOOOOt^cOOOOOcOOOOh-iOOC^Oor)i:OOOOOCOOO— " 


OOi-Hrp        Cft  O  <X5  rp  ^    -  


o  > 
t-l 

o 


oooi  »o  d -^  o  t^o  •— oc  (N  o  eoo-*  coec  t   .  _  _ 

CO   rH  ■*  »o   «c  as  oi -tf^  o  o  <M  «  c^       '-H 


eo  •>»•  00  «3  IM  ■* 


g  a 


OO«DC0t^M»0CCOO0i 


-a  J 


, ..    ■aoa-oco^ 

,  as  o'2  CO  cig  g  g  s 
'o  3  3  go  ^o  o  ftfto 
;  2  2  S  S  o  o  o  ao  o  "■ 

'o  ftttgooo^oo 
io-oo?'o-'=.oo°~ 


'ooS 

•^  t^  ^-J  w^        C5  ~-o  0-^.0 

OOOOOCSOOOiOOO 

- f— .  — ■  r^  n^  »^ /^  ei      "t^oO^-T 


-rm  K.-C 


-0-* 


TdTS 

a  c 

3  3 
o  o 
aa 
oo 


•CT3 

G  a 

3  3 
o  o 

aa 
oo 


OO05Ot^0it^NO00'^Tf<OOt^iOU5»/2C 


-2  XJ  'O  T3  i^  XJ 

^  n  a  c^  a  m  »j  oj 

2^  2  =1  3  3  S  3-0 -a -C 
3*0  3ooo3oaoo 

g  c  o  aacg  aS  3  3 
"  3  ^o  o  o  "o  poo 


'^00-*COio"c^C^^.-H"Tf<M^»-i 


>^  3  i-o  o  o  "o  000" 

o  goooooo  ftaas 

O   &0  ■OiOOOO  —  —  —   g 
^HO^.IM  1^0      -C-)000_ 

00000  c/:  —  oocooooo 
••u^oOooco^iooc-5  _r«r_rO 

O  ►c^  -co  -  -  -o>  "OOOo^ 
w-'.^-^^^oaD^»c-OOOCO^a:000-0 
10.— i^HCD.-i'^CJ^-^^^^^-t^^'-'n^CSiOCO     "" 


S3 

3  o  S     .  'J 

„e  a8s 


o-o-o-§dg°o-88' 
to  CO  CO  e^  M  P5  «o  - 


3 
o 

o 


■5  Ph  ^  Qi 


"3  OT3  o    '  a  a  g'3  c  ca_,T3  g 

,ocgo".:^tfag^aSgo 
oaoao~oOo  a-r  S  ":  a  o  ,„ 
X)  0)  S  «  9     -'^  13  f  §ja  S  01  3^ 


o      a 


'•3ca-t!cO'u33o3S:vr.-3Sco>-,3oca 


1  o  o  2  S 


3'0  fe 


3  3  X  o,g  S  a::3 
I  a  3  oj3~^  BJ'S 


I-H«005^»C0     O     t*  1— t  O  »0  10  00  CO  CO  t^  ^^  OS  t^  C^  1-H  ^H  00  o  •- 

1-H         r-if-HClCO^         ^C*^(M  (NIMC^CNC^C^         COWCOCO         .^w  -  ... 

§a'*''^S?    o     Sbiti  >>&})>.  bi  bi  si  bi  hi  tibiti  bi  bjbsi  ti  o     bj-SOoo-an 

S  «■;;•;;«     S     «  3  39  39  3  333  333  gS  333  "O     3£-3g-g-^& 


333  35 


J3  a!-<1     o 


;FqbHt3  fiK 


01  r; 
0'< 


:.« 


o 

w  <■  »-,  w  »_ 


:i=>s  ;wt3 


tBCO     ,  BigcC  Sice 


S    &■   b^ 


:S    1= 


a 

o 


aJO^(NCO     M*     ^CDt^GOOlO     --H     (N  CO  rt*  u:*  CD  t^  00  S 


CO  CC  CO  CC  CO   CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO   CO 


5-— I  CI    CO    Tj<»ocor-oooiO      i-H      c^co'^io 

._._._..  .3COCO      CO      COCOCCCOCOCO^         ^*  ^J*'*'"^^ 

DCOCOCOCCCOCOCOCOCO     CO     CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO        CO        CO  CO  CO  CO 


i  CS     (N     CS  CS  CS  (N  C^  CS  CS  C 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


2999 


»0  O  OOO 

g*"oo 
O  "O 

»ooo 


5C0OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOC<lTj*OOOOOOO 


CDOtOOOfNOOOOOOOOOOOii— ITTOOOOOOO 


Ot-«^C^O^'-HOOOOOiOOO 


OCOCOt-HCNOOOGOOi 


30000000000000*00 


OOOOOOOOOOC0040IMO 

oooooooooooooocot-^cs 


ic>jrocoot^t^oco'COOOt^cot^»oiO'^ 
•  '-Hcoot^"^oocccooiiooTt*csc^cor^ 


lO  rr^  O  I^ 


COCC  rH         -^  1-1 


c^  i>-  o  <-<  r*  o  1-H 

1-H  COrH  oTi-i" 


o  «:ic 


00  CO  Tf         (M 


100         i-HCO         f-H 


lOOCOO        <N 
CO  lO  lO  o       ?o 


ccooaios050oot^c^Tt<ioo>o»o-<T* 

lNaDt^-^cOTt*CC';DCN»OTPCSCOC^(MC^ 


O  O  CO  O  O  Oi  O  Tfi        l^  O --I  CO  O  O  CO  iC  O  O -^  O -^  <r)  00 


OCOOOCOiQTjiTj»c-j 


SCOtNO'^Dt^iOCOiCOiOOOOOfNO 


o  a 
8oo 


C3    CO    P'^'^    OT*^ 

o  q  o  S  3  a  3 

O  0.0  0  0  D,o  o 
o--,ooo_oo 

^OOOCOQ^OO 

r^  _,-o  C-1  o  _,-o  o 


•O  "J'CSJ 


I'H'o  i 


0*2  o  fa's '3 '2  =1  H 

o3oo333oo 
ooooooooo 


.-HC^^fOCS'-IO'^CC 


oS  3 


o  o  ^  o  ft 

OOoO  ^ 

o_o_So§ 
oo  "^  o  o 
O  'O  —rrj'  _-• 

O  C^  i-H  (N  lO 


T3  T?  'CT3 

3  w  H  ca  O  fl  cms 
OT3  3  3  3  3-0  a 

aaooooag 


OOOO  Co  Q  o  o  P< 
oo-^o'o 


°  °  ■=  °  oK 

tooooooooo 
CMOoooioo-ro 
u;-o~'^-=°-'"-'^-o-o  ■=- 


;t3  !*  a  •* 

>  o.s  o 

;  g  p,T3  a 

;  eg  ^ 


L-TS 


p  o        „ 


CuOffi 


T3 


be  t>  bjc  t 


^  ."SS 

.J  o -^  b    '  o  a 6  ; / o  —  .  .7;  :  ' 6  c, o ^  _ 
«  »  c3  S  »  57  ga   ;(32oo3-tec3   ;«  §~  9  «  Q  ®  9-s  03 


axi  ft-o  "^  d  S 
ogdg  d>.ft 


■T3  ^T3 
^  ®  & 
OT3  O 
ft  fe  ft 

g  i2  a  o  d 


o  §  o 
ft  °  ft 


E-is  w  S  <»  S'^  E-i    CE-i  »  0)^  <o 
Hr^  o  do  a   1  I-,  z3i-,  xta  ®a 


lO  CD  t-*  O  OS  <N  <— I 


r^OOOOfMcO'MoO"*"-' 
(N  f-H  (N  i-H  --H --I  C^         C^»<N 


.  CO  CO  I>.  r^  i-H         -^f  W  CO  >— t  CO  >— <       I      »-l      10  05  t»  i-H  i-H  i-H 


(M         t-H  (M  (N  CO        T-i  w  <M 


i-H     i-hCS  (Nf-tCO 


'OO3oo01dQ0t>000 


o  ots  o  o  o  2*0  o  ( 


d  d  >  d  a  d°     d     ddd^jdo 
o)  (U  o  ci  ©  <D^     a>     o)  o  i>  o  oj  © 


c  a 


2<! 


£;■  bib  >-.  1>.  ^  >>  >> 

,  ,^     «     tH     "^  ^     t. 


^=aa 


'0000 


5  -^ 


"I 


o  o 


<1 


a).i.-'o3S--<S..'-a'ai.iii'o3.oj.iic3.c3i.       !'--       •- 


CD    ^»ooo50^-lC^co■»**loco^^ooo50'-^c^co•^»oo^^</)':7iO'— tc^co-^iocooociO'-'C^'co'n'io    o    cocooo-— '■^c^ 

■^      ■T*<TJS"Tt<OtOiCO>OiO»OiOu^»OCDCDCOCDCOCOCQCDCOOt^b^h-I^t^t--t^t^f^OOOOOOOOOOOO      CI      Oi030iCS'<fCO 
CO     CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  C^  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO     CO     cococo-^^co 


3000 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


OOOOOOO     '«*^      O     O        O     OOOOQCOOOO 


oooo  ooc 

COOOOtNiOcT    00     o     o 

€^10000      r^   o    cu    o 


_    ;oo-:i'oooo 


CO'^  -M 


OCO        IC  rDC^ 


OOOOh-OiOOO<D(M'^0<NiOOOOOiCOO 


000  OC^CCr 


'CDOOC^TfOCOOCOOcCC^OOa 


oio      000 


50  i  g 


t:3t3x) 
c  c  a 

3  3  3.. 
o  o  o  n  ,„ 
cue  o  p 


o  c    -  o  o  c  o 

OOOOOOO 


.-"  lO  Oi  10  M  C^l  C^l 


o    - 


000—  coo 

000  C3--.00 

coo  t/--^  o  o 

fo     o"oo"o   MC'O'OO 

CO     000  0__>000_ruj^j^J 

10    R'-i^'~I§'^.'^'-io  "".^"^ 


0000 


lOOCOMOSO        C^O__      - 

^ooof-»u:i    o      -^    ooo^'-H 


O  O  «0  "O  o 

-^  ooc 


;  c^j  »o  o  o 

1  CO  t^  t^  CO  ' 


CO  Ot^C-l  b- t^ 

T}<  05  C^  CO  (N  N 


,  oj^J^ 


000    o 


H  C 

g    3-6  o  o 
o    OR  ftC. 

r-r      ^  ^00 


H  ^  ^  ,—     CO 


,    .     Coo 


;3 

G 
'43 

a 
o 

o 


:  be   , 

U         o 


&  ° 


g  2 


—    '  oj  c  a;  o—  <i^  03  o  IS—  o 


.-^  :z: 


***  '.u         w^        ■     ***    *—     Qj     ^  ~     ■-^     (.U     (J    l.\i  ,— (     i»J     J_     (.O 

000  :PRfi,jpaQ«wOsmFL,o 


^     R 


OCO      r-<      00 


ICOOCOr^CXlOCN^onMOCCOO^     O        ■<*«     00 


IM        ^(N        (^>-^  C 


lr-1  Ol  ^       .-1 


a  o-^  c-o  C-" 


&Q 


b2 


^.-^ 


an 
Bl. 

o  o 


ITS  O  O 


•P-S  R-5  <^  d  c-^  C'^-^-^-S-?  «  c8    c3      a    ca 


cet;!/i 


ti5&Ht)fe< 


;kw  pi 


o 

.9  ^ 
'5-< 


s 

o 

o 

a  c8 


I-^  QC  OC  Oj  00  O:  Ci     0     OJ     C71 

CO  CO  ec  ro  re  CO  CO    co    co    co 


t^    00  c;  o  (NCO-* 

--<      —  ^  <N  CM  (M  (N 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTEY 


3001 


^C^Q0C^'N^OOOOO'rMOOOOOs»O»0O00-^C^OOOO0SOOC0OOQ0OOOOO»0O 


^.-Hi-iOOiOOOOiQ-^OOOO 


-     ■      ^  c^  ^  o      o  »o 


5  iO  O  O  t^  O 
>  t^  O  GO  ■<*"  CO 


CNOOOO         OCOCXC 
(M  O  ■"-!  rH  .-I  t-  I 


CD  r-H   .-1 


O  CD  1^ 


to  »0  CO  O'OO 


O  U20  t^  CO  — 4 

CO  '-t  CC  C^  CD  O 


oo      oo 


T3  D 
W  fl   O 

C3  Ooo 


ooo  aooo 


o  ^  ooo 
o'^o  =°oo 

•-t  f-l  lO  Oi  C^  lO 


'■iio  «  O  ^ -M  ^M  '-i.o  o 


T3  13  T) 

a  a  o 
a  a  3 


ooo^. 


a     =3  o.  o.  o.  a^a  a  aw  tj  -o 


a  ot  ^  ^~t 


0.0,5  »5'S5  o,®  0.0,55  ^55  o. 


SS^ 


t^  03  E  b  Ej 
•3       .    .    .  £   .    1    I    I    I    I  g  fe  «   . 


03^00 
•a  flco'O'ci 


ooooooo* 


lD]=> 


:mt) 


OS  >> 


|i(t) 


—  O 

go 

OP  a> 


:5" 


Ww 


oi^ooaiO'-((NcoTt<icot^ooCT)0'— ic^fo^ocD— ■Nt^oooiO'-HC^co-^iocor- 
c^c^(MC^cococrococoeococococOTj<    -    ______    _    -    _ 


^\        >r;5.,  i-;=:-;—         —         --  —  ^ ■  ■    ■  ■ ^--^^ ^C5O--i(N(W^*OCDt^000lO 

N         C^C^C^C^COCOCOCOCOeOCOCOCOCOTj<Tt<Tj4T}<Tj<.»jiOTf'^Tt<iO»Ou^u:>iOUOiOUDOiOCDOCDOOCD<D<DCD^ 


3002 


MUNITIONS   INDTJSTEY 


3 

a 
o 
O 


<o 

P5 

< 

Cn 

W 

S 

>^ 

y 

e 
^ 


o  > 
O 


O     C^     »00  CD  O  O  O  lO  O)  O  O  t^  CDO  lOO  OO     O     O  O  i-h  O  O  lO  M  O  O  O  O     O     O  O  O  "^  o 


O     C^     CO  o  t 


5  C^O  -*  -"s*     O 


OO  CO  C-J     O     O  C^         Oi 


CO  1—1  » 


O  CO      r-l       »0 


rH  t^CO  »0     CO  CO 


OO  O  I^CO 
CO  CO  .-H  C^l  lO 


O  O  ■*  CO 


Co  OOOOC-)   Soo 


*0     CD     OCO-^i-HO-^^CDr^i-tCl^CO 


o  "^ 

2  S3 


O^—c  WtXOO 


13 -a 
a  a 

3  3 


o  o 

ooo 

o  o  o  _  _  _ 

o  o  oo  o  oo 

"  o2 


o  o  o  o  o  o 


5  CO  CD  ^. 


rOO^-O 


lO        CO  CO  lO 
i-HOC0CiO»-t»CC0OO(NOO-^O 


CJt^^iOlOO      -O  00  O     liOO 


a  a^ 
3  3  e 

-,  O  °  3 

3  aag 
3  ftagoo 

o  go  go ooo 

"  0:2^0 


a'SS'Si 


■lo    o    o 


Qoo  3 
o°°go 

000  C140 


^  .■ 


C^  CD  «D  iQ  CO  10 '-H  ^  <-i  C^  u:>  CO  •—!  to     W     C^  1— I  i-H  lO  o 


2  «  ||a.sgo|ag«o3 

g  -o  ^  -§>>3fe«^_»-e  5  oo'S-nS  • 

Iz;  <j  m;z;HqpMOfL,HMq<;pHPHt^^PH« 


■a  s  — 

(33    ^    CO 

©Co 


ca  c3 


fc 


500. 

^  ,  s  6  a «'  » "f 

Q^  a;  '^  C  3  o 
^  ^       -^  -  >  t-  O  O  o 

sg-Sa'S'gssaao 


•=   a. 


a3 


0.  ^=  as  a 


«   0<1Kf.HOP52e^«1<PL,  «  pqpHOtaCi 


(M      .-l(M(N  r-l 

<A     3  c3  03  3 


ec*  c^  o  --1  rjH 

C^J  CJ  (N  (N  M 


W  P 


>a' 


3  «  .^ 


CO  wo^  ^    n 


,?  3  3  3  3 


O 

D 

O  m 

oa 

ca  '3 

la 


<M  t-H 


CO  men—  a''^ 


S"  (i  ? 


3  3 


be  o  o  tj 

sx)T3a 


Ot3 


^     (N     CO'^^OCOr^CCCsOt-'CICOTi'iOCOI^OOOl     O     ^(NCO'rr^CDr~aOCTiO.-H     W     CO'^fiOCOt'-. 

r-    r-    r^r^h-t^i^i^t^GOocoooooooocoocoooo    Oi    ooosOiOiCiCioioioo    o    00000 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3003 


<0     O    OJ  o  o  o  o 


<N  O  lOOO  C 


O     C^     Tt^GOOOO      OD     T-t  O  t- » 
~  "")"^000     QO  ~ 


SOOOOCftiOOOOOOOOt^OOO 


ccooOrH^r-cci 


•  ooo  ":>o ' 


COQ'^'Oi-tcCCiOTfO 


■O     00     C^        C^  »0  CO     Ol 


CO  >o  »o  o       c^ooo  ^       oocs 


(N       cor^  CN  ' 


CO         .-H  (TJ 


■OCO^.'^IXMCS'OcsOOOO 

coooi£'coO';oc^«3c^ 


>i-iC^O  W^        OO^COOCOCO 


»OOiO»OiOOO"0<£)COiO 
t^OO'-»CSCOC^C^TPTj4Tj* 


TTOiOC^C^ICOCOOGO 


III 


X) 

,  c  a  a  g 

i  o  o  o  " 

;  p.  a  P.O 

I  n,o  o  o  >o  o 

S.g  S  «=  s  oo  oo=-8  8  S  o  °  S  o 


o  p,3 


O  OQ< 

oo  COOO  ■ 
lO  lO  »0  C^  "O  c 


oo 

-o^  o 

S°S°< 

COiOC^i— iCO»OiOi-H 


8  2o5S"^oo    « 

^-      w    ;  o  tto^  D-^-j  oi_(3  o^ 

•-H         CO  GO  iQ  •-''-''-'  ^  GO '^O  --H 


07= 


■*  <p  3  o 


2m 


^r,  ??  a?  .„  ^^  fl  . 


9   M-C) 

'-^.B    &    L.    „ 

o  >-  o  3  p,3 


j3^  O  SSpI! 


■    ■  X  ^  o  x-^B  o    ;oaic5o'a33~5ca  >>g  >, 


i-'^  OS'S  0(M     I  k 

ftfc.2§8f^'^'3  2^ 

"S'-'3  2'^"oa*3 

n  <i  :z;  Q  ph  w  m  CO  ph  PM 


<N     -^     O  00  — '  O  O     CC     O -^  O: -^  ^  O  t^ 
^     -^     ~.  _~^ .  rti-i-HC^^O).-! 


^-H        rH        (N   -^ 


M  r-(  C^  C^  C^ 

3  3  3  3  33 


00  05  lO  CD 


(Noocort      •-; 


8SSJ^ 


^  b  bi  bi  O  til-  bii  bi 


^  coco  Oo  ^ 

IM  Cq  ■-«  i-i  1-1 


6/3  >>  bilO  *i  bil>>^^^S^^ 

a-g  s-o  &3'g  go  o 


.z<  I 

.    .    .    o 


'^  >  a 


Wt)t3 


t3t3 


■§<1 


Wt) 


CO     Oi     Oi— ItNCOTt^     lO 


C0;^W5b»0Q0>O'— iMcO'^iOCDt^C0050i-<W 


kO     lO     »o  lO  * 


'^    "^    ^-;F-^,-l1-l(^^(^^l^^      NCSc^cNc5<Ncocococo 


iQ     iO  O  "3  lO  lO 


iOiO»OW:iiO^iOtOU3u0U3iQ^iC»O»OiOiOiO 


o 


<^ 


ic»o»o»o»cic»c»o»oio 


3004 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 


O     O     eCOOO  OCOIMOOOOO     h- 


O     O     lO  O  00  O '-' Oi  i 


Oi      O  ^  r 


;  o  o  C'    "H    ci  I 


o    ooo 


CCCr.  OOOO     GO     C^OO     ^     OOi 


CO        C^        CC  C  O  Oi     t-^     Oi 


2^ 
o 


M-OOiOOOOOC^Oi-HOiOO 

CO  o  o      oo      cs -^  ^^ 


CT.  O        oo 


OCCCOO>00»OO^COS«2 
^OOCOOieC  »OCCO"^»OCO 


O^O-rrCDiC^-HOOO'OOOO 


lOO^T-OMiO 
i«2  0<;^0  0« 


goo  a 

Co  o  3 
o  o'o"  g 


go^S 


00~JO  CC  CO 

>      '  OOOO  o  o 

ooosldo-^g""-  -n.  oo 

O  O  o     .  O  -r  o  ^-CM  o:  00 

lO  »0  C^ -^  lO  <N  ^  00  00  (M  (N 


ro    H  o  a 

a     3  3  3 

g   e,aa 

p.    OOO 


■O'O 

P  c 
K  3  3 
•Coo 
n  Q.O. 
2oo 


3  O  ^o     '  _  ^-^- 


'  <M  «D  ^  CD  tT  I'- 


So°! 
PhcoQP 


Itf^ 


a  9  H  I-.  o  .ti 


•5     aj    E-i 


--ri  ca  A 
?  o  a  r? 
5-^00 


3fi 


lie 


»   .25 


CO    r^    Tj*  cDO  t^  CO  coco  ^  oco  00    o 

i-l      M      C<I  t-t  CS  T-H  <M  CM  C^  C^  rt  .-^  »-(      rH 

Ml   cc    ■<  <5  ■<  O  CO  CB  m  <;  <5 1-^  cc   O 


05  CD  00  O  O 


O'O -a  3  sg-o  o 


CO  r^  IC  ut  CS  ^  CD  CD  o     ^ 


•a  a  t-  a 


m'O'«.ara'^'°0 


mmxn 


t*    M    t) 


;-«)p  ;  ijiHtt'ts 


a  <i 


;h  t) 


oddoddbcioobbbobo  d'^   '^ 

13  T?  *© 'C 'C'd  TTJ 'O  XJ  ^3  T! 'O  TU 'C'CCO  ^       * 


5  r^  00  ctj  o '^  c^  CO -^  o  CD    r-    0005 

-----     --">COCDCOCDCOCD     CO     COCO 


O  ^H  (M  CO  Tj*  »0  CO  t^  00  05  O  ' 


t^  t^  t^  r--  r^  i^  t^  I 


3  TT«  lO  CO  t^  00  Oi  O 


•  00  00  00  GC  00  00  00  00  00  00  Oi 


10  lO  iO»0"^»0»OW^»0»Oi^»0»0  10  W310  iO  ic*DW3»C»0»C»OiOlO»040»Ou:)»0»0>C»0*0  ^  »0 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3005 


JOst^OOO     O     OOOOO  OOO  O  (M  tPOC 


CS  O;  O      00      iO  O 


CC-iCOtjCOCCO 


J  o  O  ^  iC  o 

J  lO  tc  o  c-^  o 


•->  o    05    cs  •—      r^  ic  c  o 

""    <o    Oi  00      CO  t-  •—  o 


rHTf^     r^     c^ 


r-i         i-H  C^ 


;t^OtN*0i0tCT-Hf-^^f-(OO00 


o  as  o  fo  o 


o  o  o  3 
oo 


o  o  o  o  o 

"  "       ~        ~      O     ^     w 


o  2^  ^ 

-.  (^      -  O      .     .  (J  11.'  tr.T  uj  i^  — .  lo 

^^^  lo  oi '-'  ''T'  CM  oi  ^-^3  "^  c:  c^  cm 


as 


Co   P 

S2  3 


i-HiO»0-~'C4".-HiOi--«'— ■CMCM'^OSt-'— I 


^§-S' 


■a  a  c  S  o 

o  S  ■-  5 . 


&; «;  5  « ■^ 

g  *o  *J   tsbt, 

o,-;3  Sao 


>,  C  o  o 


)    OJ 


•  CUXJ 


J    M   03 


a>  o  o  o  c3  o  "n 


p;!2;a.<2:Mj  w  PieqQjH^05D«Q 


^  cc  fcH  3  ^  '^•-^ 


2?  B     _  ^    ^  rr--  o  c  a  o    '  — 


CI  05  *—  ■^  05  t^  Ol 


'<**  t^  00  t*  05  00 


i-<C<IO5UriOTt<lOCO»O00 
^1-1        i-(        CM  CM        CM 


oooocouOajcoo) 


"  o  o  o  o  c 
' -ceo  tS  'C 


o  o  o  o  o  o 


•5 -6 ■6 -a  a,/-; 


ddddi3'''d''^"''ddddddddddd 

"*"  "^  "^  ""^  ^     '  — ^  *  'O  13  "U  TS  "O  'C  T3  'C  'C  XJ  'O 


t3!3 


o  >>  ^ 


r-MW^iOCDI^     00     OOi—  (MCO-^rUTCcr^QCC-.Oi-'IMCO'T'^CCt^OCOSC'— INCCJ^tCCCt^OCCftO^C^ 


OlOiOiClOJOlOi     Oi     OlOCOOOOOOOO' 


-  (M  C4  <M  C-1  <M  C^l  (N  (M  C 


lOu^^uttO^US    »o    tccccocc<o<ccccccccccoccccco^cc^^ccc£?cc^cc<ctco^cccocccocococo 


3006 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


Exhibit  No.   1114 

profits  during  the  war 

Except  where  otherwise  indicated,  the  source  for  this  material  is  the  Report 
of  the  Federal  Trade  Commission  Regarding  Profiteering,  Senate  Documents, 
vol.  20  (65th  Congress,  2d  session).  Document  ISo.  248.  Similarly,  unless  other- 
wise indicated,  matter  in  quotation  marks  is  from  that  report. 

Steel 

Following  are  data  on  the  profits  of  the  United  States  Steel  Corporation :' 


Adjusted 
earnings 

A2 

Total  invest- 
ment in  tangible 
property 

B 

Percent 
earnings 
of  invest- 
ment (Per- 
cent A  of 
B) 

C 

Dividends 

paid  on 

common 

stock 

D 

1912 

89,  632, 866 
131, 155,  107 

45,  947,  126 
131,223,931 
348,  254,  465 
585, 494,  439 
519,  469,  417 

1,  240, 037,  618 
1,  254, 087,  247 
1,264,417,024 
1,  298,  625,  473 
1,  503,  624, 172 
1,  660,  995,  318 
1,  764,  408,  642 

7.2% 
10.5 
3.6 
10.1 
23.1 
35.3 
29.4 

5% 

1913 

5 

1914 

3 

1915 

1.25 

1916 

8.75 

1917 

18 

1918 

14 

'  Source:  Report  on  Analysis  of  Earnings  and  Disposition  Thereof,  United  States  Steel  Corporation, 
prepared  for  Director  General  of  Railroads  by  Washington  E.  Lowe,  C.P.A.,  James  L.  Dohr,  C.P.A., 
July  5,  1919,  Exhibit  "F",  columns  3,  4,  5,  and  13. 

2  Earnings  in  column  A  are  reported  as  adjusted  by  the  accountants,  who  added  to  the  net  earnings 
reported  by  the  United  States  Steel  Corporation  the  following  items  improperly  deducted  in  the  corpora- 
tion's statements:  Interest  on  bonds,  etc.,  of  subsidiary  companies;  inventory  profits,  intercompany; 
sinking  funds  on  subsidiary  bonds;  and  excess  depreciation. 

[Source  of  the  following:  F.T.C.  Report,  p.  9] 

In  1918  some  mills  whose  processes  start  with  steel  furnaces  complained  that 
the  Government  prices  were  too  low  for  them.  "A  special  examination  of  their 
profits  by  the  Federal  Trade  Commission  showed  that  in  almost  every  case  these 
objecting  mills  were  enjoying  unusual  returns.  The  following  table  of  percentage 
of  return  on  investment  in  10  mills  (of  this  class)  will  show  the  profits  in  1917: 

Percent 

Alan  Wood,  Iron  &  Steel  Co 52.  63 

Allegheny  Steel  Co 78.  92 

American  Tube  &  Stamping  Co 40.  03 

Central  Iron  &  Steel  Co 71.  35 

Eastern  Steel  Co 30.  24 

Forged  Steel  Wheel  Co 105.  40 

Follansbee  Bros.  Co 112.  48 

Nagel  Steel  Co 319.  67 

West  Penn  Steel  Co 159.  01 

West  Leechburg  Steel  Co 109.  05" 

Copper 

[Source:  F.T.C.  report,  p.  10] 

The  Federal  Trade  Commission  reports  the  following  profit  data  of  21  copper 
companies  and  notes  that  they  include  a  large  proportion  of  high-cost  producers: 


Range  of  profits 
percent  of 
investment 

Average  profit 
percent  of 
investment 

1913 

1-  66% 
1-107 

11.7% 

1917 

24.4 

The  profits  used  in  these  computations  do  not  include  Federal  income  or  excess- 
profits  taxes  and  therefore  represent  sums  actually  retained  by  the  companies 
for  addition  to  surplus  or  dividends. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 


3007 


Wartime  profits  of  four  copper  companies 

Source:  Select  Committee  on  Expenditures  in  the  War  Department,  [Graham  Committee]  Expenditures 
of  the  Ordnance  Department.  11.  R.  (60th  Cong.,  3d  sess.)  Report  No.  1400,  p.  94.  Hearings  before 
the  Select  Committee,  Serial  1,  vol.  3,  p.  678] 


Profit 

Percent  of 
capital 
stock 

Utah  Copper  Co.: 

1917 

$32, 000, 000 
24,  750, 000 

9,  500, 000 
3,500,000 

12,260,000 
9,  250, 000 

11, 826, 000 
9,390,135.90 

200 

1918 

isa 

Calumet  &  Hecla  Mining  Co.: 

1917 - .-- 

soa 

1918 

3oa 

Inspiration  Consolidated  Copper  Co.: 

1917 

5& 

1918- 

40 

Kenneeott  Copper  Co.: 

1917 

70 

1918 

60 

Zinc 

[Source:  F.  T.  C.  report,  pp.  10-11] 

While  the  Federal  Trade  Commission  reports  no  unusual  profits  in  the  zinc 
industry',  it  excepts  the  New  Jersey  Zinc  Co.  Its  percentage  of  net  earnings  and. 
dividends  follow: 


Company's  data  based 
on  capital  stock  is- 
sue 

Federal    Trade    Com- 
mission   data    based 
on  investment 

Net  earn- 
ings 

Dividends 

Net  earn- 
ings 

Dividends 

1916 

72. 5% 
56 

76% 
46 

95.9% 

76% 

1917 

(') 

>  No  figures  available. 

The  Commission  notes  that  the  company's  profits  on  common  zinc  are  very 
low.  Those  on  grade  A  zinc,  while  high,  are  due  to  the  fact  that  the  company 
possesses  a  natural  monopoly  of  a  certain  high-grade  ore. 

Nickel 

[Source:  F.  T.  C.  report,  p.  11] 

The  International  Nickel  Co.  produces  practically  the  entire  output  of  nickel 
in  this  country.     The  figures  for  its  profits  and  dividends  are: 


Profits 

Dividends 

Percent  of  total 
capital  and  surplus 

Percent  of 

investment ' 

Year 

Profits 

Divi- 
dends 

Profits 

Divi- 
dends 

1916 - 

$13,  557, 000 
(?) 

$10,575,000 
(2) 

20% 

15% 

15.6% 
12% 

40% 
30% 

31% 

1917 

24% 

'  Computed  by  F.  T.  C. 
'  No  figures  available. 

It  should  be  added  that  the  increase  in  profits  was  due  to  the  increased  war 
output  rather  than  to  advances  in  price,  for  the  company  maintained  prices  on 
a  prewar  basis. 


3008 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


Sidphur 
[Source:  F.  T.  C.  report,  p.  11) 

During  the  war  all  the  sulphur  in  this  country  was  produced  by  the  Freeport 
Sulphur  Co.  and  the  Union  Sulphur  Co.  In  the  first  half  of  1917  the  Union 
company's  costs  were  $5.73  per  ton.  The  average  realization  of  the  Union 
company  during  this  period  was  $18.11  per  ton,  making  a  margin  of  $12.38  per 
ton.  By  June  1918  costs  increased  but  did  not  reach  $10  per  ton,  while  sul- 
phuric acid  manufacturers  were  paying  about  $25  per  ton  and  some  as  high 
as  $35,  making  a  margin  of  over  $15  per  ton  for  the  sulphur  company. 

Data  for  Freeport  Sulphur  Co.: 

For  the  11  months  ending  October  31,  1917,  the  company's  balance  sheets  show 
an  operating  profit  of  $4,301,310  or  236  percent  on  investment. 

The  company's  balance  sheet  on  Nov.  30,  1916,  shows  dividends  declared  of 
,$925,000. 

The  company's  balance  sheet  on  July  31,  1917,  shows  dividends  declared  of 
:$1,850,000. 

The  company's  balance  sheet  on  Oct.  31,  1917,  shows  dividends  declared  of 
$2,600,000. 

Surplus:  Nov.  1916,  $1,254,000;  Oct.  1917,  $2,543,000. 


Lu7nber 
[Source:  F.  T.  C.  report,  p.  12] 

In  1917,  48  southern  pine  companies  made  an  average  profit  of  17  percent  on 
the  net  investment.  This  is  unusually  large  for  the  industry,  for  the  average 
profit  in  1916  was  only  5.2  percent.  In  1917,  47  percent  of  the  footage  of  the 
companies  covered  was  produced  at  a  profit  of  over  20  percent. 

The  margin  of  profit  per  thousand  board  feet  in  1917  was  nearly  double  that 
in  previous  years,  the  figure  being  $4.83,  as  compared  with  $2.11  in  1916.  The 
1917  figures  are  after  deducting  for  Federal  income  and  excess-profits  taxes,  and 
are  the  sums  actually  available  for  additions  to  surpluses  or  dividends. 

Coal 

[Source:  F.  T.  C.  report,  pp.  12-13] 

The  bituminous  coal  operators  in  1917  had  much  larger  margins  than  in 
previous  years.  The  margin  is  the  sum  actually  received  by  the  operator  for 
coal  sold  less  its  f.  o.  b.  mine  cost.  The  increase  is  illustrated  by  figures  for  23 
typical  bituminous  coal  companies  in  the  central  Pennsylvania  field. 


Year 

Average  margin 
per  ton 

Highest  margin 

Lowest  margin 

1916 

20(f 

m 

$0.41 
1.85 

13^ 

1917 - 

27(i 

Petroleum  and  its  products 

[Source:  F.  T.  C.  report,  pp.  13-14] 

Data  secured  by  the  Federal  Trade  Commission  for  106  refining  companies  for 
the  first  quarter  of  1918,  supplemented  in  certain  cases  by  returns  for  the  second 
six  months  of  1917,  indicate  that  the  average  profit  in  the  oil  industry  was  about 
21  percent  on  the  investment.  This  is  a  considerable  increase  over  the  return 
for  pre-war  years  when  the  average  profits  for  1913,  1914,  and  1915  were  15 
percent  on  the  investment.  In  1917  over  50  percent  of  the  estimated  production 
was  produced  by  companies  having  a  profit  of  over  20  percent.  The  following 
table  shows  the  percentage  of  net  earnings  on  investment  for  a  series  of  years: 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3009 


First 

quarter, 

1918 


1918  (es- 
timated) ■ 


Atlantic  Refining  Co 

Standard  of  Indiana 

Standard  of  New  Jersey 

Standard  of  New  York 

Standard  of  Ohio 

Standard  of  Kansas 

Magnolia  Petroleum  Co 

Standard  of  California. 

Continental  Refining  Co 

Empire  Oil  Works 

Penn  American  Refining  Co- 

Cosden  &  Co 

Muskogee  Refining  Co 

National  Refining  Co 

The  Texas  Co 


16.4 
36.5 
9.7 
21.2 
23.4 
91.6 
19.2 
16.8 
1.6 
4.4 
35.3 


8.7 
24.9 
17.1 


-3.7 
14.5 

7.8 

8.1 

13.8 

1.0 

16.5 

12.5 

-7.8 

-3.1 

13.3 

30.6 

6.9 

8.0 

13.3 


21.7 
36.0 
20.6 
16.0 
23.9 
17.9 
14.2 
10.6 
3.3 
5.6 
12.3 
-50.7 
18.8 
20.4 
12.7 


2  15.0 

2  21.7 

2  9.  1 

2    6.6 

2  14.3 

3  25.6 

4.4 
6.5 
1.2 
7.3 
15.8 
5.9 
6.2 
2.3 
2  13.3 


+30.0 

+43.3 

+18.2 

13.3 

+28.6 
+51.3 

17.6 
+25.9 
+4.7 
+29.2 
+63.1 

23.5 

+24.8 

9.2 

26.7 


1  Estimates  based  on  figures  for  last  fi  months  of  1917  or  first  quarter  of  1918. 

2  Six  months  period.  July-December  1917. 
'  Last  six  months  of  1917. 

Meat  packing 
[Source:  F.  T.  C.  report,  pp.  14-15] 

An  exposition  of  the  excess  profits  of  four  of  the  big  meat  packers  (Armour, 
Swift,  Morris,  Cudahy,  omitting  Wilson  as  not  comparable)  is  given  in  the  fact 
that  their  aggregate  average  pre-war  profit  (1912,  1913,  and  1914)  was  $19,000,- 
000;  that  in  1915  they  earned  $17,000,000  excess  profits  over  the  pre-war  period; 
in  1916,  $36,000,000  more  profit  than  in  the  pre-war  period;  and  in  1917, 
$68,000,000  more  profit  than  in  the  pre-war  period.  In  the  three  war  years  from 
1915  to  1917  their  total  profits  have  reached  the  astounding  figure  of  $140,000,000, 
of  which  $121,000,000  represents  excess  over  their  pre-war  profits. 

These  great  increases  in  profits  are  not  due  solely  to  increased  volume  of 
business.  The  sales  of  these  companies  in  this  period  increased  150  percent, 
much  of  this  increase  being  due  to  higher  prices  rather  than  to  increased  volume 
by  weight,  but  the  return  of  profit  increased  400  percent,  or  two  and  one-half 
times  as  much  as  the  sales. 

The  profit  taken  by  Morris  &  Co.  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  November  1,  1917, 
is  equal  to  a  rate  of  18.6  percent  on  the  net  worth  of  the  company  (capital  and 
surplus)  and  263.7  percent  on  the  three  millions  of  capital  stock  outstanding. 
In  the  case  of  the  other  four  companies  the  earned  rate  on  common  capital  stock 
is  much  lower — from  27  percent  to  47  percent — but  the  reason  for  this  is  that  these 
companies  have  from  time  to  time  declared  stock  dividends  and  in  other  ways 
capitalized  their  growing  surpluses.  Thus  Armour  in  1916  raised  its  capital 
stock  from  twentj'  millions  to  one  hundred  millions  without  receiving  a  dollar 
more  of  cash.  If  Swift,  Wilson,  Cudahy,  and  Armour  had  followed  the  practice 
of  Morris  in  not  capitalizing  their  surpluses  (accumulated  from  excessive  profits), 
they  too  would  now  show  an  enormous  rate  of  profit  on  their  original  capital. 

"Rates  of  profit  earned  by  these  five  companies  in  war  years  compared  with 
the  pre-war  average,  based  on  net  worth  (capital  and  surplus)  and  on  common 
stock,  are  as  follows: 

Actual  profit  on  net  worth 


Pre-war  average,  1912-14 

War  average,  1915-17 

Year  1917 

Rate  on  common  stock,  1917. 


Percent 

6.2 

14.6 

2   16.8 

2  27.1 


Swift 


Percent 
8.3 
21.0 
26.7 
47.2 


Morris 


Percent 

6.8 

13.5 

18.6 

263.7 


Wilson 


Percent 

(') 

(') 
23.8 
42.5 


Cudahy 


Percent 

7.3 
14.1 
18.7 
47.0 


1  Figures  not  available. 

2  Foreign  business,  not  included,  would  undoubtedly  raise  percentages. 

"The  independent  packers,  as  measured  by  results  compiled  for  65  of  the 
largest  of  them,  earned  during  1914,  1915,  and  1916  a  rate  of  profit  as  high  or 
slightly  higher  than  that  earned  by  the  big  packers  in  those  years." 


3010  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Leather  and  leather  goods 

[Source:  F.  T.  C.  Report,  pp.  15-17] 

A  number  of  the  larger  tanning  companies  in  the  United  States  had  net  profits 
in  1916  that  were  in  several  instances  two,  three,  four,  or  even  five  times  as  large 
as  the  1915;  and  the  1915  net  profits,  in  turn,  showed  increases  of  from  30  percent 
to  more  than  100  percent  over  those  of  1914.  One  striking  instance  is  a  company 
whose  net  profits  were  reported  as  follows: 

1914 $644,390.  90 

1915 945,051.37 

1916 3,  576,  544.  27 

The  tanners  took  advantage  of  the  enormous  demand  for  leather  and  took  very- 
high  prices.  During  1917  the  prices  of  hides  were  advanced  very  rapidly, 
notwithstanding  that  during  the  period  of  advance  great  supplies  of  hides  were 
withheld  from  the  public. 

As  an  indication  of  earnings  of  the  big  packers  in  the  selling  branch  of  their 
leather  business  the  following  is  quoted  from  a  letter  of  January  17,  1917,  by  the 
Eastern  Leather  Co.,  an  Armour  selling  subsidiary,  to  Mr.  F.  W.  CroU,  of  Armour 
&Co.: 

"We  are  inclosing  our  check  on  the  National  City  Bank,  New  York  City, 
payable  to  Mr.  J.  Ogden  Armour,  for  $915,787,  same  being  a  dividend  of  53  percent 
on  the  17,279  shares  of  common  stock  standing  in  his  name.  In  addition  to  this, 
and  in  accordance  with  our  conversation  when  in  Chicago,  we  have  set  aside  as  a 
surplus  $250,000,  which  represents  10  percent  on  the  common  stock. 

"We  are  also  inclosing  a  check  on  the  National  City  Bank  for  $202,145.62 
payable  to  Mr.  Armour,  this  being  the  balance  due  on  6,020  shares  of  common 
stock  held  for  employees." 

Flour 

[Source:  F.  T.  C.  Report,  p.  17] 

Figures  from  representative  mills  for  the  four  years  ending  June  30,  1916  > 
indicate  that  the  flour  millers  received  a  profit  of  135-^  cents  on  each  barrel  of 
flour  and  12  percent  on  the  capital  investment.  In  the  year  ending  June  30, 
1917,  these  same  mills  made  an  average  of  52  cents  on  each  barrel  of  flour  sold 
and  nearly  38  percent  on  their  capital  investment.  For  six  months  of  the  year 
one  mill  showed  an  average  profit  of  $2  per  barrel. 

The  average  net  profit  of  jobbers  reporting  to  the  Federal  Trade  Commission 
was  about  15  cents  per  barrel  for  1913  and  1914,  but  increased  to  nearly  50  cents 
the  first  half  of  1917.  These  profits  include  all  the  pay  received  by  the  proprietors 
of  the  business  for  their  services. 

Salmon  canners 

[Data  and  quotation  from  F.  T.  C.  Report,  pp.  18-19] 

Ninety  percent  of  the  salmon  packed  in  1917  was  produced  at  a  total  cost  that 
was  less  than  $7.75.  The  weighted  average  of  the  1917  opening  prices  for  different 
grades  of  salmon  was  $8.29  per  full  case,  but  more  salmon  was  sold  above  than 
below  this  price  during  the  year.  This  indicates  a  margin  for  a  high-cost  canner 
of  54  cents  per  case  and  larger  margins  on  the  bulk  of  the  production.  Several 
canners  having  costs  in  the  vicinity  of  $7.25  in  1917  made  profits  as  follows: 


Cost 

Profit 

Alaska  Salmon  Co ...  . 

$7.12 
7.43 
7.02 
7.13 
7.58 
7.71 

Percent 
19 

Everett  Packing  Co 

5 

San  Juan  Packing  Co 

24 

Cascade  Packing  Co 

62 

Ocean  Food  Packing  Co 

14 

Salina  Packing  Co 

31 

These  are  high-cost  companies.     The  following  figures  concern  the  average: 
In    1917   the   average   net   profit   on    investment   of   90   companies,    packing 
7,426,678  full  cases  (87  percent  of  the  total  year's  pack)  was  $2.28  per  case,  or 
52.8  percent  on  the  net  investment  in  the  salmon  canning  business  proper.     This 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3011 


average  of  52.8  percent  does  not  reveal  the  fact  that  some  of  the  low-cost  com- 
panies, included  in  the  average,  made  over  200  percent.  It  is  significant  that 
some  of  these  low-cost  companies  are  those  allied  with  the  big  meat  packers. 

Ordnance 

[Source:  Report  on  Expenditures  in  the  Ordnance  Department,  cited  above  under  Copper.     Report  No. 
1400,  pp.  37-39;  serial  1,  vol.  3,  pp.  621-623.     Quotation  from  p.  39  (623)] 

American  Brake  Shoe  &  Foundry  Co.  had  several  Government  contracts  for 
howitzers  and  the  Government  furnished  $5,572,945  for  new  buildings  and  ma- 
chinery equipment  in  connection  with  them.  The  exact  plans  for  the  howitzers 
were  apparently  not  definitely  in  hand  and  according  to  the  company's  statement 
the  Ordnance  officers  made  30  changes  in  dimensions  and  specifications.  Conse- 
quently, there  were  repeated  delays  in  turning  out  the  guns. 

"As  a  result  of  these  contracts,  in  addition  to  costs  of  every  kind,  including 
salaries  of  executive  officers,  the  American  Brake  Shoe  &  Foundry  Co.  received  a 
profit  of  $841,364.70.  Included  in  the  cost  were  the  labor,  materials,  salaries, 
and  even  taxes,  all  of  which  the  Government  paid,  and  an  additional  item  of 
$37,500  interest  on  money  which  the  company  had  used  in  this  work.  The 
entire  amount  paid  to  the  company,  exclusive  of  its  cost,  amounted  to,  approxi- 
mately, $1,000,000." 


Exhibit  No.  1115-A 


PRICE  PER  BARREL  OF  FUEL  OIL  F.  OB.  REFINERY.  OKLAHOMA 
AND  PRICES  OF  ALL  COMMODITIES 

INDEX  NUMBERS  (1913  =  100) 


PERCENT 


1913  1914 

U  S  DCPAHTMtNT  OF  ASPICULTURt 


1919 


NEG.  BUREAU  Of  AGRICULTURAL  ECONOMICS 

MTA  FURNISHCO  BY  tURCAU  Or  LABOR  STATISTICS 


83876— 35— FT  13 8 


3012 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 
Exhibit  No.  H15-B 


PRICE  PER  POUND  OF  WOOL  AT  BOSTON  AND  PRICES  OF  ALL  COMMODITIES 

INDEX  NUMBERS  (  1913  =  100  ) 


*.  J\H.y  JAN. 

1913 

U.S  DCPARTMCNT  OF  ASRlCUtTURC 


l^l'f 


JULY              Jl 

IH.          JUtY 

JAN. 

JULY 

JAN. 

JULY 

JAN. 

JULY 

1915 

1916 

1917 

1918 

1919 

Exhibit  No.  1115-C 


PERCENl 


PRICE  PER  POUND  OF  BACON  AT  CHICAGO  AND 
PRICES  OF  ALL  COMMODITIES 

INDEX  NUMBERS  (1913  =  100) 


JAN.  JULY  JAN. 


JAM.  JULY  JAN.  JULY  JAN.  JULY  JAN.  JULY  JAN 


1913 

US  DCPARTMENT  OFACBlCULTURt 


1914 


1915 


1916 


1917 


1918 


1919 


NEO.  BUBEAU  or  ACRICULTUBAL  ECONOMICS 

MrA  FURNISHCD  BY  BUREAU  Of  LABOR  STATISTICS 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3013 


Exhibit  No.  1115-D 

PRICE  PER  POUND  OF  YELLOW  BRASS  SHEETS  AND 
PRICES  OF  ALL  COMMODITIES 

INDEX  NUMBERS  (1913  =  100) 


1913 


US.eCPARTMENT  OF  ASRICULTURC 


I9l<f 


1915 


1916 


1917 


1918 


1919 


Exhibit  No.  1115-E 

PRICE  PER  POUND  OF  STEEL  SHEETS  AT  PITTSBURGH  DISTRICT  MILLS 
AND  PRICES  OF  ALL  COMMODITIES 

INDEX  NUMBERS  (  1913  =  100  ) 
PERCENTr 


JVVr  JAN.  JULV  JAN.  JUUV  JAN.  JULY  JAN  JULY  JAN.  JULY 


1913  191^ 

u  s.ocpammemt  Of  Assicuunme 


1915 


1916 


1917 


1918 


1919 


3014  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Exhibit  No.  1115-F 

PRICE  PER  POUND  OF  STEEL  PLATES  AT  PITTSBURGH 
AND  PRICES  OF  ALL  COMMODITIES 

INDEX  NUMBERS  (  1913  =  100  ) 


PERCENT 
600 
550 

- 

- 

- 

— :-• — 

- 

500 
1*50 
WO 

- 

— j-j — 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

350 

300 

s 

TSEL.  Ptofes.  tai 
'h  thick.  6  to  100 

^k. 

/*/n 

nches  -v,^             ♦ 

250 

- 

/■■' 

•  ■«! 

\ 

,  Ay 

200 

J 

>«                <^       \^^                                           1 

- 

/^"^ 

—V- 

150 

/ 

100  ■ 

-^ 

y>^ 

- 

"•*•— 'X. 

1 

- 

,,l,,l,,l,, 

..,..l..l..l. .,,.!..,,, 

,,l,,l,.l., 

-.,,,•1,,,., 

,,l,,l,,I,, 

.  1 1 1 , 1 . 1 1  >  > 

1913 

S.S  DEPARTMEUT  OF  AOHiCULTUOE 


JULY  JAN.  JULY 

191^  1915 


Jin.V  JAN.  JULY       .      JAN.  JULY  JAN. 


1916 


1917 


1918 


1919 


NEC  BUREAU  Of  AGRICULTURAL  ECONOMICS 

DkTA  FURNISHED  §y  BUREAU  OF  LABOR  STATISTICS 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 


3015 


Z 

o 

H 

M 

<J 

« 

a. 

<•, 

w 

Ph 

u 

W 

o 

« 

''^ 

(1( 

^ 

?i 

o 

o 

?; 

u 

K 

K 

'^ 

r^ 

<» 

i-l 

S 

O 

'^ 

Ph 

to 
O 

<J 

r< 

5, 

o 

-se 

^ 

W 
o 


"o 

tH 

s 

0 

o 

"3 

'S 

O 

id 

> 
o 

o 

x: 

0 

g 

o 

0) 

_ 

_ 

:  CO 


«  J^-u 


q;  w 


.^  o  ?5  w 


1^    Or 


*ji<!0 

2-0  Oi 


00  •«*<  C^  00  >— t  lO   1  «--l 
CN  03  Oi  C^  O  CO 
CO  '^  t--^  lO  oi  Tj5 


00  01 

00  cc 


^Hh-OiOiOiO'— '0000100'— iioOiOl'tOiOt^ 
CO'^OO-'^CTitMcOOiOi'— 'CDO*— 'QOOiOt^CO 

OTfHcd-^oood-^iooit^oicoT^iriooioio 


»0  1— I  Tji  TjH  C-i  to 


<  CC  CO  Tj<     r    CC  C^ 


S  fl   9   L-  -i^   >.  -^   O  ! 


(ii°.9 


g  feo  «'acS      3 


^  35  ffl  ti' 


fiH-8.sS 


Ph-8"" 


OJ   o 


8S  ^^^ 


^'^  -2 


<:;  p  p  S; 


Z82 


5  *^ 


n;<»t^i-<  (Mt-HCJ^  coco 


OOOO0OOOOOOO10OOOC5O 


o  o  o  o  o  o  10 


00h-0000»0 


OOOO'OO'-tCDOOOOMr-OOOCO 

o  uo  lo  cT  cs"  o'  o  ^-^  c^  o  o  o  >-H  c^'  o"  i-o  1-H  csf 

COOli— iiOf-'tNiOCO'-'iOCOiO'^  CS         .— 'C^ 


■—tfOCOOlOOSOOlOOiOiOC^OlO^-OOiOO 

oicdr^oiot'^'^oiooioiooii-OTpootoco 


00"^COXirf'/>0— ''— <CD.— (^CC^rfCO-^C^O 
'-HCOiOOiCOCOOCOh^COiOOiOOt^t^'— iCOi-H 

■^oifoouocOTtit-^c^'odcjioc^cdiO'frt^co 


CO  CS  CO  CD 


^rHr-HCO'O'— tlOC^r-lCSCCC^i-H 


.-»  CO  ^  CO  t 


r-^CNioocooco-^coc^Jt^ 


>-.t--OOOOCNCS(NCOO(Nt-^-H4CdiT*-CRKo 

CiOiaD'--<t--'-^cdcocoi^cocc'ior^xcocoio 

COcOi-HiOCVltN'-'iMCOCO'MOlC^-^fNOOCO'-H 


oocMcoo(N(N(Nc^a)w:)i>.to^.-iioricoo5 
OSTpcDcsi^»r5coO'^eocoioo5-»**'c^ooi-»'** 

'^'*C0O(Ni0.-HWC0t--C*<«?C4C^(Nt^C0.-i 


coi-HC<icoiococoo*oc^co-^r^c^; 


>  ^  CO  00  O  CO  c 


occocoo»o^ocooi 


COC-JtOOli— I'Ci'**''—!.— t— iCS 


co^idocooi-^'xscoo'^cooco  »o  CO  o"co 


Gc-Hr^r-oococococoot-toc^cftwcooiM 
cor--r^csoiTfi~io«o<©cocoQOCiOicoTfc^ 

JO  CO  ^-^  o  id  lo  CO  ■^*  o  0  (^  (N  >-1 10  c-i  oj  o  c^ 


■-•aiQC'CO'^rT^COOl'Tr'O'— "COCOi— <co— <— ^O 
tOM^TfiOC^I^iMi-HC^IiO'-HO'— 'CNh-COCOC^ 

'^'"  CO   o'   1-H  ci"  i-T  iC  CO  c^f  10      CO  c^ 


00  OS  CO  t-- 
rt^  10  .^  O 

r-Tj*,-)  CO 

CO  lO    00 


OcoOi'M'— lOC^CD 
-— '  CO  CD         CO  CS  —«  CO 


'^  <-•  '^  c^ 


COOCOCC'^»OT-H»OOC^COr--.'-«.-HOO-^CDC^ 

o^io-rj'o;?!'— '•— 'io»ocor^»oocsoio(N 

OOOJCOOiC^lOOiTt^CS^-OiOOI■^CScOC5osO 


^ooo-— 'Osocooioic-iTf^r-rocoOiooc^io 

COCOCl-^OM'^Oi— <0^iOI-"-C0*OiOCC^iO'O 
0— .050TfO>OCO-Hl>.t--Tt(C^COOOO<N 

h^oc  lO-— ■  co*--''co"t-^Tt<"cot^odtccoio'co-^c»5" 


'^r:!::z''^^'^'^ooo'Moo^cct--o-t<oo 
looio;  iMoooo'—ioof^Tfoit^t^cC''^ 

QC-:t*0C-^t002O«Dl>-'X'OOO03r^O0iC^ 

•O'co"— Too  C^' --h' C^f  irf  C^" 00  iC  CD  CJ  CO  O 'f  Ci"  !<" 
-^h-COO'-^iOOCO'— lOSt^t-iO         C^         T-H.-H 


000000000000*000000 

00000000000000000  »o 

OCiOO»OOOCOOOOOOOh^OOOCO 


CDuOCOOC^O(NI--!rJOiOO'^C^OiO'-HCs' 

coc^f— •iOf-iCMocO'— 'loi-iorD      cs      i-hc^ 


i-f(MCOT«iCCOI^OOOSO'-HWCO'^»OCDt^OO 


3016 


MUNITIOlsrS   INDUSTRY 


C3  jD 

CO  3 


1— ir-t(N!C)Csr^ocO'-i 


<^  w^     I    ;    .  o^  to 

I-  O  »J3  ca  C3      ■   4)  o 


3  O     . 

ll-S 


f:^»i5 


Oft^ 


,Od^    log 

m.t;.2  o  5    . 
^  ce  |-  X  i;  o 

~   n      •   O   C3  o 


^  (M  CO  "^  "O  «D  t^  00 


CO   =3 


.  o 


<j3  03  »  «r;-aj3  t,^ 

FL,oO:z;2oOfqco 


O  a 
x'E 
03  3  ^ 

M  3  g 

S  B  g 

'-'^   . 
o5  o 


go2 

a.2^ 

©  q  +j 


go 

a  as 


» ' 


"^.ti'^:Si 


^=Sa| 

H  w  w  o  fp /?  >  p;  oj 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3017 


o  u  §  «a  b  >  i° 


O  — '  C^       i  CD  CC  O 


1         1         I  ,-H   rr^ 

1      1      1  CO  ^ 

T-H         1 

>  CO      I 

<u  B  g  ^  *^  ^ 


■rriot--(M'^cnooo>o-rticoo 


OOliOGCOlOJiMiM'rt^aiOOOO'-'OlO 


CDCOOGOt--Or-.C^eOiO.-HCCp^:D(r:'-Hi30rt^--i4000'^OOOI>.CCrOCO 

oi  o  --^  00  '-H  id  c-i  oc  CO  --1 00  CO  22 
coicccci       '-to:icO'-<.-*t--r-.^ 


^J    g  CO 


(M  O  CD  Tt<  Tt*  O  C^ 


J  i^  t^ ,_-,  o  t^ 


-oc— "CjTf'^t-^i~-'— ir^tocooooi 


cjior^-^co"j:iooo5CS«oxcoGo      ocooit^OiO'^ 


.-H  ao  CO  ■— I  "O  rt^ 


+J^  CD 

P-  o  eft 


ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo 

OC^OOOOOOOOOOC-OOOOOOOiOOOOOOOOO 
OOOOOOOOOOOO'-OOOOOOOOt'-OOiOOCDOOO 

o  o  o  o  o  oo  »o  »o  CD  oof?      oic  o'oooo  oT ciT id (>r CD  aTocTo     ^ 


O-— *»0»OOOiOCNi— iiOOCO        ■^OlOOiOO'Tj^ 


lO  tM  .-H  CO 


■^•-H-^OOOiCOr^CO'^C^Oi'— 'O'-H<M(MOr^Q0C0i— <f0h-C000OC-j4OO 
COOOCD'^COOiCOOC^cD-rftM'^t^GC'XCO-- ".-.r-HOlI-^'-'CO-rcDCOt-- 

cdccododaio-^^'cicr'or-^cO'^idoO'-HcO'^c^iaJci^C'iooidoi 


g  o  ^  ^  .3  2  i^  ^' 


o  ^  ^ 


C^C^IaO»Or~-C00050CCScD"r+<00500i— 'lOCDOGCOCTtHT^.— (h-OO-— lOOt-H 
■»^i~'CDQOt^'-'OSaOOO)05CDOOOCOCD<OOiOiOCD01t^C5'^'-<C^OcO 

t^c^'oiQ6■--^cDt^05»do6'-H-H■c^Gocd■^cdcDu^cd^^c^'cD^'----*"ccccc^ 

coco-— <OOC<l(McOCOCS(M»OC001r-<OOiOCO-^C^10C^.-HcO^^-COCOTi^i— ( 


^  §  S  §'3.2 


OCOOi-— lOiCScOcOCD-^h-iOC^COCOOO— <CD-^OOcOcDC^r^»OC-100C^ 


00'-<fOC^05COOCSiOt 


<COOCDt-.iO— '-^CDfOCDOOCC 


OOcDC^CDOCOil^CDOC1COC^C^»OCDCOOOC^COCDi— i-^t-^OCDOOCDOO 

loc^c*^-:t''<*^^w(^^(^^TJ^c^^TJ^co.-loo(^l^^^ccI-<<^lc■oc<^(^)Tr^^-'--«<^^cD(^^ 


OOOOOOiOi-ii— IrfOO'^COOJOC^OlGOOiCOCOC-Jt^Ot^OiCOC^OOCOO 
■~iC^C<C0C0OcDr-CDiO(Nt^C^r^Tt<05Q0c0'— It— t-.OCDCOt>-COCOCS»Tjl 

ido-^co»dcoT^odcDCMr^-^"^oiocc<?coT^ocdoicDu5i-HO'-Haso5i-H 

COI>.C^I'<**CO'*^-<f<N'^00>b-'-HOSCO'*CDMCS(Ni-H-^CDCD'*CCCOCS 


fcyci; 


.2  '3?'o,2 5^ 

S  o  S  I  x' 


00C^OC0iO(NcDc0(N00CI5»O-^r--'-*C0ai'— 'COCSiOOOr-CCCDC^rHGO'^ 
— 5'-H01'M»0c0Tt^l-^CDOiO'MCDOCN0i-faiCsr0r-O000i"rf»O'^OOi 


OOtN'— ""^05'— lOOOSt—' 


^-^lOiOOiOCOOSC-l'^rf-— lOOCOOCDOOt 


'^"cD  Oi  ^  t^  <:0  to  O^  CO  ^  ^  n  cS  t>^  ^  <:0  C<^  t-^  trS  ^  CO  (^  O^  CO  C^  ^ ':d  ^  to      h^ 


Tf<  rr  CO  CM 


r-H  lO  tN  CO  (M  -Jf  CO 


c;  (S  c  2^  ^ 
o  o  o  grH 

^^  ^^  ^' 


O  Oi 


H"" 


1— ii-HOiTt^tNTfiocDOr-— icDh-ooo:cocoioc-iascococo-^coi^r--»oio 
iocDcDoa:tNO'-HOcDt--OiOi— "iooo»ocot— ceo— lu'^-^*r:lOOcDlO^>- 
(N--^Gdodo6oiurio6cDcoc^i'^'Qd•»;J^csocdl>.*cdcD^>^aioil^ 


5  CO  CO  rH  —I 


CO  CN  CO  CS  — (  CJ  <M  (M  f 


ocDC^O^tioor-coo-— ir^'r*'(MOcst--aiOQOGOcoo— «•— tooci-pioco 


Ht^or-t--— (-^cocDdi-— <c 


jQOco»ocniOco-H' 


C0a0C0C^C0'XiO(NC^--iCS40aiC0'-<C0c0'— <•— tC^CSCD(MI>.C^O0CS---C 

id"      i-rrCco"cDO(>r     i>r»oc-fo      coco-zS^^aS      -^oi      {^■^^c-i 

lOl— IIMTfl— I,— »  r-«— llO  Tj*r-I-^  CO"— I 


COOCOiOOO'-HOSt— 
OOC^t— COCD-— "-rt^I-- 

o    oo-^od"^cD— r 


^OliOCCd'— 'QOOCOl' 


CD  »0  Oi  00  — t  Cvl  C  -   , 


»o  -^  C-J  DC  r-H  Ci  t- 


Dr-cD'^cD'n'CD'-HCO'-HOio 

-     -      ■         COCD^OCCOOOQOC^ 


CDi-"-— "CI         .— (OOQCCOC 


3  f-H         CO  00         '-i 


CDCDCJ'Or-t--.CCcDOOcD»Or— ■-^COCDi— ( 
t—  05C0C0f0cDCVIC0"r^O-- "OJCS-- 'r— lO-^ 
t^CO^QOCOCDCDCDC^JOlCOTfCOCOCOOO'-H 


-rj-cocD— (C^05^r-oocor--<a3--^cocDc» 

.►.     -"  —  CDiOOi-^COOO-^COQOCSOcO 
•'J'CDOCNCSiOCl-^'^-^COCO 


r^GO^NOOOOcOCDtMOlcDOiCDt-COOOO-— I-— lOOCOOCO-' 

CiC^ooscD-— 'oiooocDCN-— <r-ccc^oooor--c 

,— (OiOCDC^OOl-— 'OOJC^OCOOOCDr-OOiOr 


CD  t^  ^  "^  CD  T 


»  00  -^  CD  CO  ' 


^n- 


COOOO^'*0:t--rt*h-OOiUO^COIM^IMOOOirOOO(M'-'05CO^'Mi3i 

lOOOO— lOO-^uOiOOcD'^OOiOC^^Hi— iOiCS<— '■— icDOi^CT'C'tiCDiOOO 


TPOiOOO-rt^i— icDt 


-OOrt'O-^J^-^aiOlCOCOOCOrO'— iC^JCDOJC 


Tfh-CS-^OCDOSCDOiO-- iio— iC^OOOCOOlCOCDCOt^CSOlOO'^OJ'-HO 


c^csr-iocooot--'^— ^ 


)  CD  »0  CS  O  »0  O  OOGC  r-H  03  "^         CD  "O  CS  ■■ 

Ol  --<   »0  r-(  ,-1 


0000000  00  000  000000000000<NOOOO 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOTt^OOOO 
OOCSO^OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOiOCOCDOOO 

o  o  o  o  c^ocr»did"ooQo      o  »d"o  ooo"o  rj^c5'»d"t^»d"oi"o  o  c5" 

Or-fioio— (0>oc~       "" ■      "    '~ 

CS         C^         CO  --H  i-i 


.  C^  t-i  lO  O  CO 


'(NOO^OOtj^— (iQfM 


•  lOO^y-iCO 


.-<(NCO'^»CCDt-OOC7SO'-(C 


■♦lOcor-ooosOi— •cieO'^iocDr^ocos 


3018 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


^  s 


o     '     *   ^,  08   >-    >     '    S 

XJ3  p  a  "  °^^  a 


1  «oo 

I  C^'  CO 


!S  : 

loco    I 

1    40         1 

fee  a  ass 

(!<—  §  S  =^ 


■"  a  '^ 

4|    Ort 


_*^^  CO 
P«  o  OS 


^  o  ^  "  3  "^  •* 


;  a  O' 


"a  2 


■M  g  OX! 


Q)    P    C     > 

Ph 


P  .H  «  £  _y-j^ 

S   S   S   CiOCR 

*  "  o  ce  -S 


a  a  a  ® 
SS  '^  pt- 

o  o  o  g^ 


^S2 


Oir^'ooooi^'— '00000*0 

CDO-^O^Ot-OC^Tj^I-^OO 


OiOiOCO'-4CCC^»OCOOOiCO 
t^t^r-lO)'<}<^«00       cooo 


OcDG0OOC0t0C0C0»0»0C0 


<;d  t--  — <  Tj«  irq  • 


Ot^— '  -^  ^ 


^  CS  1-H  00  00  cc  -^ 


i  CO  r-1  1-H  CD  -^  (M 


<  oo»o^- 


iN  t^(NC^      I  -H 


iTt<G0CDO'-t00C^M'05t>.e00S 

lOscocD'^c^eooicct^eC'-tt^ 


i^GO»OiO<-i'*t*CO^COt^OQO 
ii-<?5.-hO-^OOCSC^C^^COCO 


Oi  <^  '—  Oi 


ic^tMTf'ai'-'O'^ioasc^Oit^ 

tOSfO— tT*<GO"tiO^^CCOC^QO 

'ajc»ooocot^.-<ooo»o-^t^ 
•  ^-^o^cDai"oo  ro  CO '*  cTc^Tp  ao" 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOQOOOOOO^OOOOOOOOO 


ooooooooc 

CitOOOiOOI--OC 


OOOQOOOOOOOQOOOOOi.   . 

soooooooooo'ooooooor^*: 


LOO'oroo-Tj^oooo'OoocooO'— <o»oiocoioooo^o»0'^r-o 


^        f-H         CD  C^  00 


OCSOOTT^^OiTptO-— (t^^ 


t^r-Tt«cDccr^(N-^'*cDOii^Tt*(NC^'^t^M«(Nooco'^(MOcr5'-ia>cDco 

i-<i^uoc^c»ciot--'-icooTtioooot^t^Tf<';oo<DO<-i(rioaoo(NTj<a> 

T*lT*oooc5c^io*OTr»ooic^<Dc*3coooc*icDC^T^a5—*^^r^r^oo^ 
^c^^^i:oi:C'-HCSc^i'~iio(Nc»3aoc^i<?q(NC')(r>)i-icsio*Ofoc^^c<)C^rHT}< 


.-*OcOCO'-«Cit>-iO«DC^C^O'— < 


OiMt'-asOOOOOC^eCQOtOtNOO 


ioajccoo05"^'^'*t^t^osait^asiooii0^cot--oocaocs(N»ooeot^Oi»o 
oilOcoeccDC^^^lDcDoi'-Hoioc^Q6c^?dc^»o•oai^o^^^•-Hc<jc^^^c^cD 

C^cDC^TfCDCO'-'OMC^MC^COCOCMMCSMCOCS^»OC^COC4  04COC1dCO 


Oi"^r~coGOOOi'— icococ^c^c^aoc-^oooit^"— <>~-tiocoooooiC'^ooO'-t 

C>l<M--'O-*O'-<OOiO(NiO'-iO'-'00^.-<^OcD— tCSas-^t^OOiCOC^ 

^-Icccoo^-^cDGO'-H<50oi"^oi"^u6c)ccoc^'-H<:c5cic^lOTJ^moic6^o■^ 

r-iCCC<lC^|u0cD'-HCCC0C^Q0CC'*C0'^C0C005C0C^WOCS<:D<NC<IC>0CSi-i00 


OCO'OasGOC^^aOr-iOOOO'— 't-r^iOCOOOl-^OlCOb-CCOOCDOC^GO^D-^ 

OTt*-— •ot^'^cooocor^"^'— 'lor-r^-oai— tcDrt*T}4oioioicot-<cC"^coTt< 
coc)6cio6cDccoc^^^oooi■^c^■^-HOOcDG6"^■^»OiocDojcioiTJ"o 

COCOC^-^'^C»C^GOCOCOpcC«D*0'<J'eO»OCO'«J^C^CS---iCDCDC^C^-^(NC^ICO 


OiOOOt— Oi03SC^"*«Dt^C0O0l00i0'— iCOQQf-lcOOiOOTj^OiCDasOb- 

CD-— «oi--iococ^cooOTt<a5cr>ocoTj*<:o^DC^"^c^ioo>a>0'^iO'^oO'^a) 

C0CSOi0CCiCSOOCC05OTt<C00S'-H(MC^Tji00OO00t-*CDC0TrC0OC0TH 

oT  o  lo  CD  CO  CO -^  ^  co"  wo  CD  ^^  CO ''j^  ^-^  tC  lo  c^  00  oT  00 --H  ^*  00 --H 

C^.-HCO  CDO'OCO>-t  -HiO         C^  ■^C^i-i.-.--?-CO  CD 


iot--.coiO'-<»oc^'-H-^^iocccc-^rot--'-ic^»OQOC^'-tcDOiai 


OTf05<X>t~*^f^C^C^'«r05COI>-CD 


r^'^t^CNiOCMt^-^OiOlO 


OOLOOJOOlMiO-^OCOcOOCOCSl^CDCDOi'OTt'aiOO'— <cocoooo-^*oioa5 


coco(rccst-»c<ic^      T-HiotOTfr 


'OiOOooioiO'^t^c^t^'— '  icos  —  ; 

lC^C0CJiriC0t--.O'-<C^C0'— 'I"-OC_     .     _  . . _-_ 

ir^cDOoocMTrc^CNC^cic^crir^cotMt^oocncicoQCcocO'OcNC^'-ios 


)TfTJ^cDlO':^c/)C^O'^^— i— 'Oooi 

■  -"  ■"       ■  ^  CTi  T-l  — ■  00  lO  CO  M  CD  O  CO 


JCCOO        OiOiiOiOtO        '^C-^COCSCSO'— 't>-CS        '-I  -rp  oo  -^  c 


i— iO»OOSfOCOt^05cO— 'OOCOTTOr— OOOOCCiM-— 'OiOOSCCt^OOCO 
r-"rpOi'— ■OOiOO'Or-iC^CCOaiOO-^OCO'OCDCOiOCCCiOCDO 
CDOO'^C4C100C^C^''^^QOOOr^COOCOCJiCO(MCO'^CDO^OOtO-rJ< 


05C0t^^M<        CO'-«iM(NCOO 
CO  CO  ■o    ■o 


CDCS'*    i-i.-.— .cO'-iO-* 


io^^onoaiGOiO'^'-»05oO'~'co-^»ocO'-i'^TjHfococoi>-iocooooi 

O^ocO'—'CTiCS-^'— •'OOiOOt^Ol— iaiOcoco<X300inr^i^criocnr-»co( 
OicOC'l'^XJaiCiCSCiO        C0Tf<'<?*C0OCDC0'*}<»O«:)i 


scot^^t^or-c^i— iCM 


r^    CO  1-H 


CS  t^  — .         CO  O 


cocoascoioioocooiocooocoioo-HOiooscoco'^'— 'GCcoot^aiTj^co 

COOCS'-H»0»OCDCO'^»OC^t^CS'— <iOt^OOOiOb^Tt<C^t— 'COCnCSI^iOiOCO 

■^h-t— c^Tpoc^iocD--Hcot^oooioo»ow:)'— (cooiocscoos'^'-Hocor--^ 


cDcocor^r^coox>oo!OOOiOii^or^coO'-'OiOcDOC^Tr-HTj<rjii-(0 


CO  f-t  Tj<      1-H  Tt<  r- t-^ '-<      <-* 


r-i  00  CD  CO  ^  CD  h- 


OS  i-( 


lOcocDOt— t— c^xoir>.ot-ocor-o:oot-— «cor-loO'^^3ioooi»o^- 
'-Hco^o•-^'f05c^*ococot>-■— iooor^cDOOi>.Oia3cooc^>-Hcocoooo 

t--(Mt^OC*lTj<0CC7iCS01OC0O0i»O00CDOai-^0i01— 'OC<ICOt"---HTjHoo 

o---roocDc^orcscocoorT-H"odou^05-Horo»orCoradcooort^T^ 

■— 'Tt'00COCN(Mt-'^»OCN'--tCSC^        lOUD'-nOCO'^COt--'— •*0»OiOOJ'-hi— iU3 


oooooooooooooooooooowrjooooooooo 

OOOQOOOOOOO-QOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOiOOO 

c^i»ooooor-ooooooooooooo»ooooooot-»c^o 


O'-'iO.-HOiOCDC^iOC 


3Tt^t^DllO*0^t-*r 


o— •McO'^iocDf-ooasO'— •c^co'TOcot^oooO'MC^cO'^wocob-ooas 

C0C0C0C0C0C0C0C0C0C0C0'^^'^'^'^'^'^"^'^*0i0lCi0'OO*0i0U5»O 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3019 


iioc^or-Tf^oicNO 


t*  i-H    t    I  o  01  »oco 


^  ^      t      1  C<»  CO  CO  fM 


1      ■OM 

>o     1 

i«    1 

i     lO^^ 

1 0    p 

1     1  ■*!<< 

■  (M      . 

.t~      1      1 

T-tooc^OMcofOiooOTt'oaioooi 


iOCDOiCOCOOOt^<NiQOOcOCO.-'0000'OC^CS»0'-HCD 


(MOO^-HlOCOOOOiTPiOCOr-HC^oOOC 


-  b-  c^  r-  t^  CD 


osocowr^c^cDcoior*-*:** 

■-*  —  -  CD  O  b- CS  CO '«*< 


Oi  »0  CO  kO  OS  t* 


^aiC^t^oosoiioo'^t--iocorj5»oh~.odoo5  0'^co"^h-'^o 

O --H  10  W  »0  <N  O   CS  i-i  10  (N  10  Tf  CO  Ol  00  CO   CO  CO  (N  f-1  »0  CO  to 


•^(NoO(N»OOIM(NOir-HiO-^uDi-iC^oo":>CO 
.-I      ■rt' ■«*<  f-H  I-H  O  (M  «  M  CD  M  Oi  CO   t^  10 


O^00C0u^»O'-H--(CCOCNOOQ0C'1C^OC0C^'-H'<»<u0O-^C^"^C0Tt^cDOr^'^l~*0lO'--'t-*cDO0l»-HC^»O0iC0 


t^C35^COt--tOCD03CD»OtOO 


"^CDt'-COOO-^cCCOOr-iO'rfCDC^OOQOCOuOi-HOSTt^'r^C 


t^r-O0;i0C)OC^l'T}<C^00iOCS-«frPOt-^r^OC0t^OCOCD--'CD0500  01OCD 


:'COooO'^cocs05oocDr 


3qi'~<^<NI:^0:(Mb0iCh-(M-^Tt^C^t^|^CNC0CDO00«M»OG0iO 
2  J2  ■"•  TfCDCO         -^  „    O  »0         CS  i-H  CO  .-H  -^  ,-1 


)  10  OJ   ^  iJO  CO  Tt-   r 


CD  CM  •'J^        1-1 


SSQQQ^^oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo 

00000000000000c 

ooo»ooooooooooo» 


SSS'^SSS^'^*^'^^*^*^'^'^'^^'^'^'^'^^'^'^'^'^'^'^^^'^'^^'^'^'^'^'^'^ 


(MCDOOOOOOOOOOOO^OOOOOOOOOOOiOOCOO'MOO 

o  o  c^'  cs'  10  uf"  CO  o  ^-^  CD  u5  o  o  o'  o  lo  CO  o  o  o'  o"  o*  o'  o'  o"  o'  o'  o'  o  -^^  o"  o* ":? 

.r^  .^        ..^^  «,     ^  -.  __      _   _      _   . _   .. -|  O  i-H  t^  CO  CJ  <-'  O  CO  r-H 


C^  IM    ^CS 


iCiOi-nfMC^i— iO'-^C^C0OCSO'^C0OOC0'-H"0O»OC^T 

—     —         r-l  r-1        ^10  CO 


O)  C^  .-H  Oi   01  i-i 


SSSl£^'^'^*^*^C^M^w:'C0CD'-HC0t^^I^C00iO0StOc00iaiO000000C^'-H0i00C0O0iC0O'<*<00'»*<Q0I^ 

coc^a>cs^^cD'<*^<).-«os'^0■-'OOlO^-oo'i5•^coocoOrHco•--'OOJ^■-<o^'C^c^coco-«rt^^'■^cocD^ 

^5G£^2i2'^^ool^coocDo"o^coooilOcoo•TJ^''«J^'opi*o^'^-^.-H'^ 
'~'^9R5^'-'<^^cs^-<j*c^coco.--t^Tt*,-H,-H-^rHrHc^e^.--.(N.-«coo»co«^cocO'-ii--t?^T-ii-iw^^   .-hw 


^i£5S'^°0'-Cf^ootouD(OTj<ooiooit~^'--eocoooc^oooifooioaiTf*cocx:)'-*co»ocoTt*cDcoooc^coooc^ 

'-HCN01W3^^00<C^--OOCOCOOiCOO•^COl-»05COCOOi^O^O■*lCUOC^Ot^■^'— lOOt^-^t^CD-^CDCOCO-^OTt^r^OO 

f^S?^S5'^'^"^'^^-^OCO'<J^cDC^0^05^0  00'o"oOt^«D^-*5Doio6o6o 

^  ?!2  22^'^'***'^'^  coco  Tt*b»>**'^CSr-H'«t<  CO  C^OC5.-<0«-^.-HC<li-iC<l  CO  CSCOC^CO  cocoes  i-ti-lM 


00  »0  O  r^  Oi  r-l  4 


JOeOOCOOSC^t-^OcD-^i— iOi'^0:-^aiC^w5'— itooOOOOCOOlMiOTfiOi— it^CO 
,  „  -. .     ^  .- .  .« -"  •"  00  — •  «0  «  ^  O  tP  00  CO  t^  '-'  CO 


cDO'^coTt<oicooiod»oco(>o^co*^'-<"'--'Q6>ooior-^c^r-^od'^*ON«D« 


i-Hco'-'.-'Trc^oKMcO'-it^ 


■i01'-''-'C^'*'-'0»(N*OC^COCO(MlO'*t-ti-Hr^^T 


?2r^i22!5^f^^f^0000O0S00tD00OO^C0C0O^OC^OC0C0t^'-H00tC00t~*CQl0i— it-»0"3t^CO.— iCOCO 
C'r-OOTT'OOt^i-HOOiOOOcOCOiOCO'— 'OOC^COtCOOCOOOiOC^t^'--«cD'-'OcDcDOSOOOO'--<CSCSi-«OSCOOOCO 

fe  ;^  !^  t:  r^;  '^  S9  f^  "^  "^  ^-  o  CO  rr  -^  ^'  u:5  4C  c^*  cc'  c^  --'  oi  r^"  OS  ^-'  c^'  ^ 

SJ^  —  ^^S*^'^"^^*^'^ccc^Oicocooococ^(^^t-•.-«coM'^cocO'*c^lO-'5*«c^c^1-"«coc^c^'-<»-HOi 


?^?oJ5S!2riPC^0SCD000«C^OOr-»'^e^i>IC^00C^-^--H---i--<00C0C0tC0i»-"O^M<N00i-Hi000'^t^ 

^J?^i2S^'^^'^■^'^'^o^-occcocDC^l^co^-Or-^0'u^c^oooc^cooco•^cocz3wco^-.Oi^o■^o 

r^cO  't>CS'-^C^Q0O^O0S^■^00C^'^t'0S•^•Oc0OCDC0C00sC^•^C<^OC^OCS00»OTtlC^t--00'<J^t^00^-'<J^O 

J2^"5co  ON  10  crodob-Tr^ic  ^'u^rf5'c^Tf*--*oood c»  10  Tt^"eo 


H  f-t  CO  --H         CO  CD  L 


■<  CO        "^        OS  O) '— '  .-I  CD 


^osSSS^^23S2S!^r'!t~r':r'^co-^o:DcO'^coc^f-Hi^c^ooioc^r^ 


JCNOOiMCIoOCOOOOSCSOOOO^COtNCSlt^^iOCOCOt^OICOt^OSOOCOOOSOSi-HOSOO'^Or-OOOO 

^S'^*!r*S''^^^'^<^^»^'-Hcoco'^b^o«c^"0'-'Oo6od«D*i-'*t--''-Hos'-*^ 

■  "       ■<  tM  ^  Tf  CO  ,-H  .-H  --  .-        .        .  _        .  -,        ,  -^        .  *,  „        .  ^.  _-  .   -- 


l-HCO  .-H   (N   f-HCOi- 


10   r-l   1-1   lO  T-H   t 


CC  i-<  CI  .-"^  t-H  (N  C 


I-H  ^  Ol  i-H 


ICDT}<C0(NC0r^iO»Or-«u0C0'-'OlTP'^00»OCD'-<c 


500Tf<cccr)TtHOst-^oooo»oioooc^cD»oocooO'--''^asooosOso5c<ioor>-Ooot^-^oscoeo(^ 
'"'     ■*" ■     -        ~'    '    -    -  —  —    — 5-^cor-TricO'— 'oocooscoTPcocococDcc-— tcocDCSior>- 

j-XJiOCOOS'MCSCOOCDOOOCOtNb-iOiOCDCOOsOCO^ 
■rt^''Tt*  i-*"od  >— To         OS  rJ^co'co'cO  of  I— TiO  ^Os"of  cOtJ^'^OO 


csoicO'-Hcoi-HTjriCcid 


'-"^                                                     .-H  ^  ,-(                     tO(N         TO         M         >0                     Tf               — iiO,-<                                  00         .-1 

9,346 

26,  788 

262 

231 

?  2, 194 

1,489 

2,950 

1,148 

2,967 

827 

13,091 

15, 137 

« 13,933 

«97 

3,956 

112 

60, 484 

16, 157 

842 

36, 160 

513 

20, 548 

164 

53,  584 

3,048 

2,582 

2,771 

42, 027 

1,625 

1,069 

12,  287 

38,  470 

109. 451 

2,236 

'"4,'546' 
*  2,  373 

5  59,099 
90, 672 

"i2,'26i" 
'""511" 

-^-^COO^Tjlt^COiOtOCDOcO^ 


;-^t*oocoor^'<t<oi--'o»rHt--Tj<oso^osoocooioot-Ht^osiOTt*QO':Dco«o 

^OOOOJ-^COO-^CDOOOsr^OOOOliOOlCOi-tCOCOOSOOOOTtHCDOOItOCD 

josr^i>-'^»o»-icoOTfi>.i-Hoiiocot^o»Tj<-r}<cooii-i^'^oscot^ococo 


'-'  O)  -^         IM         CO  00 


«D   — I  i-H- 


2£^;^^SP?200'rt*OM*OOOOI^OO^t^r-C'100"^OCC'-H'*CD^O'*I^OOSiO'^0»0'r-iCO»OOOCOCOiOCD 

7^iSS^X;i5L:'SP^ut.oococo■<t*GOOcoor^ocD^O'0^^colOlOos^^■^wco-*t^^uO'TJ^cDcoocoo5"^ 

"^acc^lCOOOTPC^t^.— i-Tt-fCO0^'rt'OC0C0-^00Ot--0S00C0r--t^01»-"rPC00Ji0'<J<<-Hi00SC0Oc0'^OC0'-HC0O 
■  —  Oir^f-ll^-         00         »001.-i04--<.-i  CDCOOO  -Tt^^OOOO         OSr-»  1-1 


HOSTfrf^OOcOCO'^OScotOOiOcOOstOtOt^OCOOO'^O'^COcOcoOsO 

fS  li  I£?  92  P  r::!  "^  "^  <^  ^  CO  o  *'      ^    '-   "  --       ■■ 

iiOTt«r>.cDt--.Tf-^ooiococo-^ 


^?P2?SJ2£jiP?P*~^^'^^--^coooi^i^^^o^^ooo 


SOOO-^COOOiOS'-'C 


00C0O'<^'*0)O00t^C000»0Oc0O 


jooo^cocoio-rjicc  -^00  ofcvf  TjTco  of  10  >o  lo'o^'t^'o'o'co'cD  oi'r-Tco'of 'tj-'co'of  i^'o'-^'cD 


00»-tt--OI0ir-00t^CDiO04OliOiOO^'rt^r-it^04OMC0C0'-'C0^OTi<0l00C 


CO.-t         ^  Ol 


ICO  too*      M*  o» 


S2SS2S2SS^'==<=*<^'='^'="="^*='<="^=="="=="=="^^'="^oooooo<: 
SQQ^<^OOOOOOCDOOC ' 

OOOiOOOOt^OOOOOOi 


d  000000000 
000000000 
. >Q0Ob-oo 


i^S'^'^JGiG^^'^  ^^cc  ^'o  o"oo  10  co'o'o'o"o'o'o"o"o  of  o'»o  o'r-"o'o'o  o  100  o'lc  00  o 


OICS         COOICO         lOiOi-HOl 


^0'<»<0»COOO)OTj''ti^OC 


_-- OlOr-OlOl 

^OOOI'-HOlO'-'OJOOJfO'— 'COi— I 
■*  O  10  OJ  CO  CO  o         -^  ^ 


O  ^  O*  CO  -^ 


i^  •— 1  i.-<  t'j  -rr  «j  yj  i-^  (JU  t»  <—?  I-H  cs  C 
CDcOcD<£>CDcOCOOCDCDt^t^t»l 


3020 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 


CO  3 


OO— 'OOOCN-t*i— '.-hOO 


.-ii-HiOCDcOC^iO'-fOiO 


COOCO'-'^Oit^'^'-'COOO'— 'Oi— 'r-OCC-Tt't^C^t-GO-^C^iCiO 

o  ^ --<  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o --^ -^  o  o  o  o  o 

./-«  "-*  ■'^  —>■■-*  -"^  ."'  -rj  lo  1^3  lO  iC  iO  >0  I  ~     ~     ~     ~ 

-  f^  t^  r--  r-  r^  r'- 1 


o  o  o  --^  ooo  c 


■^  lO  »0  ^  lO  *0  lO 


i^  r--  i^  r^  r^  t^  r-  t^  r-.  r--  ir^  t-^  i^  r^  t-*  t--  i>.  t^  t-- 1^  t^  t--  t--  r^  r>-  r>-  b-  t^  t^ 

^'^GOGO':OOC5aiCOQOO<OOOb-O^CO<;DcC>COQrJCS--*Ot^C^t^OOOO 


►3S 


jo 

I  — ^  a  P 


p5! 


o-S^Z 


..S    15! 


«  ^  b)i-5  z:  2^a  — (X,  OHO 


Ho'^-; 


-K*  rTn 


;  03  p^J^  u. 


s.g^s-aw§S^ss_g 


sgfc^. 


^    C-  CD 

fls 

c  — •  o 
03  ja  V 
UPhW 


■30 


a< 


O 

o x:^  I 

^  C  Ot 

»  capH 

03   t-  5  I 


bjoO 


a 
•30 


'00.: 


->  oO 

.S-d 
o  «  U 

=   03^= 

5  a  o&H 


o 


,  d  °  d  S 

5s'-Hoo30 

o  X!  «  s  a  s 


o 


50. 


^  «  o 

^Og| 
_  aj  oi  5  „ 


s      a 


—  M  «~  o^ 


m  <u  o  < 

*-;       3  ' 

n.  03  ; 

j"^  CI  £ 


^" 


3a3-<lccOfi(l>r<<^^i-JPQt^E-imrii^mPHWE-imPSc^ 


qP 


■-  &  CD  c  S^:^ 


'CO 

Sx:: 

_^  33 


e  —  'o 

X2   O  03 

triRcn 


a)  03  CO  P 

x:  30  <"  o 

c  03  «;x:'3 


CCrCCOO'— 'OSOOOOOC^'NOOGO^DGOXCOO'^-C^CCO'— 'GOt^COTfCiO-TfCi-^OOltOa^C 


■  O'^'MOcn^S'-'oroccoi  —  b-o^oocDOr-HO'^^'Cccicoi--^ 


*— 't-oociQO— '-^cir--— t-^cc^joccoo^ 


COOOOOOfMOOOOtNOOOOOOOOl-—  000: 


t^  t'.  t-  r- 1^  t^  r^  t'.  ( 


J  ^O  ^  10  lO  O  t 


3  O  Oi  00  !JO  C5  t 


3  lO  ^  10  10 


;ur:-H^t-cDOasc^i.--csoit^ooc^»:C'^cn"OaiOjcoot^QOO';DOoo':c.~>(N^o)oo=oi>. 


,— .         ,-1— 1.-H.— i.-icC'-HiOfOt-tCC* 


H  CJ  CS  lO  CS  CJ  i-H 


.>:z' 


2  >'~^': 


;  03 « 

3     03  <H     ^ 

3  ?i    •  a; 


^C3 


03  >H 


j=>  .._^  .n 


s   -<  3   -be 


WpaP 


2^ 


;w<! 


►7  »H  J3   C  >      ■      . 

or^^T.  f^  a  3    - 

M^-'H .°  s  —  g -Q  5"  ??  o  >  S  „-^ -^  K° -5 

.a-3S^.Eo£^2S^S^gE^>-a 


O   C3 

o§|5 

►7  air"— '  ?: 

X  k  _  , 

»  «  5  OT  a  o 


to  '^'^ 

■5  a  2  s " 

x:  o  p,  -n  ~ 

is  _  «  "^ 
^  a  fc  'p; 


0-3 

_,  a 
—  .-^  .S:  a  o  *^ 


O^' 


SSm 


,^  a  a> 

HSSaE 
>_x:  a  » 


a  o.a^''AV, 


O  o 
_0  o 

a  2  OT 
oj  oj  a 

a  «^ 
ti  M  » 


gSfaisa 

ae|-3  3? 

e-a  a  „=3 


6^' °  Effl 


Z,B 


o;^c 


^HPf 


-C  —  r-cZl^qO  a  era  tj].H  •"  -3 

<;>3<iuoPMeoWoo5>2;EHem&:oS 


o:       ^ 

«  g"^  9 

I^   O   o   03 

-^  S  ^  ^-  is 
*j^  cd  a*  O 

"*  ^  ^  S2 


mo; 


,_(CSC0rJ*»0;0l--CJ005O'-HC^C0'^i0CDt— OOOSO'-'C^CO'^^ 


■■oooiO--HC^icO'^ictor^ooo:Oi— I 


^CSC^lCNC^C^CSC^ICSCNCNCOCCCOCOCOfOC 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 


3021 


^  C3  O  t^  CO 
tMM  Tt«  (O  O 


cooococ^  coo  I- 

.-H^WCOrH  ^OO— 'O 

t^t>-t^t^t^  t^  t^  (^  r^  t-- 

a>50»-lr-tt^  (N  CO  CO  -^  Tj« 


ss 


!3  a  _-  ca  a  *  2  «? 


o 

s|§.§2s 

5^  ".tu.ST; 


,  O  CO'-' 

O  aj  o  o 

Iwia 

S    •  3  ° 
SWOQ 


»c«ot^ooa)0      .-4  c^  CO  "* 

05  Qi  Oi  d  Oi  O        OOOO 


•<J'COI-^iOCOiOC^(N-^'<**OOCO 

Tt^O'^'— 'COC^^COOi— «GCCN 
t-»00»0.-«iOC^-^OiCOC^C^I 
COt-H.-HOCOO'MOOC^t'-'O 

t^  t>.  r-,  t-- 1^  I-,  t^  i>.  t>.  t-,  t^  t^ 

COiM'OO'-'.— 1-— (OlGOClOiCD 
CSCO-— iCOi-HCO         tO"*!— •-— iiO 


^^. 


o 


03o       ''^ 


o 


;  3  o 


f^  n  "  E  t 


j=  a  OS- 


6  , 
s  °  - 

g  o  o 

s  ^  s 

w   ©  > 

:-j3  03 


oS 


C]  OJOJ   CO 

00^.°' 


NcO-^OCOt-^OOOlO'-HC^CO 


3022 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 


<V        '^   u. 


a  ■'S  -  5  s  ®  «= 


CO       I       I  OS 


<u  s  S  M  -e  -^ 


»OgOO'-tOOOiCCi-^CDCDOOiOCO'-H<X)C:CSiOC 


1  (M  Oi  C^  -^  CO  O  ^ 
!>•  CO  '— t  -^  lO  OO  Oi 


4C0CCV0i-HOCSr-.01C 


- 1— «  CO  05  o;  a>  o 

^  t—  CM  CC  Ci  '^  lO 


.  CO  i-H    (M  CS 


4J  g  o 


c]::>c^coor--.-HOlcD■— 'cci:ccco^O'*cccni 


)Oi'^or-'-'cr-ocr 


3  CO  00  >— I  CO  lO  C 


icorpcccooi'— iioro 
jiorcocD-^oo-^oi 


I  c^i  t^  t^  CO  -— '  a- 1-- 

■  .  lo  CO  !-<  cr-  00  '<»' 


I  -^  CO  -^  oic 


t^ot**cicoc^^cocicc!: 


I-H  (M 


COCO        --1 


I  '-I  O  CC  OC'  Tf  Tji  C^ 

-■      *-   Tp   -I  t^  I-H 


ooooooooooO'Oo: 


;oooocoooooo 


OOOOOOOOOi 


Dooc;  ooooc-ooooooooooooooo 


iCOOCSOOOOOOOOOOOiOOO 


^.-HOc0OOO^0SO'0^OOOi0OO*COC000t-»0O^ 


Oi         .— (r-iiO'-->— iiO-— '^         lO-— 'OiiC* 


JCNf-.OC^'-tC^CO         CM' 

CC  I-<   »-4 


»^  H-S  3  °3  >  ft" 

p4°.S'3'a     flg 


— 'Oi-— ^CMC•^c■^aoo»oococolCOll^coooco:oooo^ccoCT^CM^oc^^^* 
^-<ococc>ooco^-01— t»cc>cocsi"-CMcccccoi'— «ooio:qC'-icoo 


'-<  00  CM  CO  CM  o  r 


'cococo»or--r-t-^on»oioo-^C)Oh-'^»ot 


jTf<CMCCCMCMCMi-i.-ii-lir:COCMCMi-iiCTt^CMr-.— •rOCC.-H^CIi-i^I^ 


,  U)       ^ 

I  a  o  . 


T-1  j^  ©  OJ  L 

^Ji  ??  0^  2  ^  aocR 


OCMCCOO'-it--CDCOOl'^u:>O^CMCOCCTPCO 
cOOOOOirHOt^iCOl-^OOCMCOTfCOCMiOCM 


tCOCMOifOOiCMt^t^OO 
iCDi— iTjiCOt^CO-^COCD 


CMOC0C0C0-^t>.0i'*0st^CMc0C0CMr^'^O 
»OOCMCOCMCOi-ii-.t-COCOi— 'CMCM'«J<»OCOCM 


•<foc»copt^'^»ceo 


?2§ 


Ph"3  g  P  o 


O  "  CO  CI  c^  o  o  c 


H(M,-icC'<»'CT)CCCOO'-t"OOt^Oii^iOO<Ct^eO 


Trt^c^icccc(M"^cs.-»"r^icc^cc(N05»occ"i-iTr^HC^c^co»-i^o 


ila'S§2 

Ph-8"" 


coo-^-^co'^coQOt^r- '-'» 


Ol  CM  lO  1— ' 
CO  CO  QC  O 


<  CO  CO  Oi  O 


ICOCDCOCOOCOOOC^IOli-'tO 

<  CO  t^  CM  GO  "0  r-^  r-^  Of"  00  CM  CM  -rr  ai 

■ ■ ' JCO  "0 

CO  CM 


•-^CCM'^COCOCMCM-^'^-^COC^COiOJiC 


i'^t--aioocccDco^co 

i0S05CMC0t^O»OC0C0 

iOicoTj-'cM»cr^cdcor^ 

iCM-^C-^C^lCMCOiOTf*.-! 


OCOOOO'Oai'^QOOSCOiOOOOCOOO^COC'lOOO'-CMOiOiOOt^'tt^ 
t--rr'Cn05C'4CMt--r-Ci0000005  00GO'^r'-CC'-HQOCO-^01t--0'-'COGC 


COOQOCOCOTr^CTJt 


i  »0  t^  '-I  Ql  1-t  ^  - 


HCOiOOC-^OOO^O^ 


ociococooi'-S'T-.o'-t^oscocococO'— ticr*iococoi>-cor-C5cc^^M'- 


CO         CO         CM  CM 


r^  CM      CO  lo 


O  O  O  «;;; 


aicoo;t^CMCj;'*co^t^oai'>*'cX'<T'oO'-'ooocoooccor^c 


Hooocoosooi^i-Oot-Hosoioscoi-^'— tc■j»OlOOi'■ 
3  GO  t-^  u^  "^'  CO  CO  CO  o  ^^  CO  --H  CO  CO  o  lo  lo  r^  I-H  -^  00  oi  lo  --H  CO  GO 


CO  «-•  t-i  1-H  C^  ' 


iCO»-ii-H         I— tCO-^i— I1-.CMCM        C-l 


e" 


3'^-j0C0f0CMt^O00C0c0C0G0C0tOQ0i0'^'Xi0C0OG0r~-CM^r-.0^ 
jf-Hrt'.-HiOOOOJCDCD'^t^C-JOiOliOOOCMOOiOcOOOCJOOOCMt-.CJCT) 
?CDCMCO'^CMOiOCO'rJ4Cn"^CMu:^OiCOOCGO'-tTf^'<TiOOCir>-OCMCO 

"cm"  CO      t^i-T-^^Tj^      r^     cm" '^ CO  cToi"     co  co  »c  co'oi -^cc      r-T 


•  coa>QOLOioorooo5--'050 


lO  CO  .-'  lO  c 


t--  TT  Ci  Oi  Tp  O  ■— I 


o  C5  CO  uo  r- CO   CO  »o  o  CO  o 


iCMCO-^CCCO^iOCOC^ 
1  05  00 -^  lO  O:  ■^  O   CO 

I  GO  Oi  1—1  CO  r^  00  CO   -^ 


I  cm  CM  O  ■«}<  CO  CO  CM   i-H 


egg 


COCMOOCO-^CMOThOiOO-— tiO^CO'— <t--CO-^CCCOOCDCM-V'— lOlOit^ 


)  OJ  GO  Tj^  CM  "S^  00  Tf  ■■ 


^CCCMCM"rpCMOCOI>-QOCMt"-CMCMCOCOCMCM<— iiC"^-^ 


f-HOlCl'-'OOCCCOlOSOOOOOCO 


C^l  1-1  r-. 


O  ■->         OiCM         lO 


^82 


CnCJCO-^OO-— t'-HOOI^Oii-HCOCOcOOCOCOOOiOCOOlOCO'-'CM'^CO 


■it-cccocMcoc^iOir^c... 

HOi^t-^ocoooor^":iCMr--i— 'oooGocoi 


J  CC  CO  CO  CO  CO 


lOTfOi-— '.-t'tj^-^CO'^OCOOCt^'^CO-^  O  CM  CO  00  00  "^  "^  *c 


05  -^  rH  CC  CO 


Cft  CM  .-<  CO         O  >—«'—<  CO -^  •-(  •-( 


art 


»0  Cs 


oCMi>-ooO'— •TfcooicoioooocoocicoO'^or— roiOT*<cooiO 

OOiCOOCJCMCM»OiOr^OSCOOCOCnOCOt^OO'— <001CCCO"^ai-^0 


Oi-^'**OOC'-(OOCMCC 


iOCO>— iioCMi-HCOcOOCCuo-- 


t^ot^— ir^CMcoiocMOi  coo  »oocJi05iO"^oo«30»oro'Cco»o»o 

CMi-i.-H,-«OCMr-(i.':,QCO         CM.— It--.— I         COOiCM'^CM.-'-^CMiOt-^CM 
</^  COi— <'-hCMCO0C'-H>O'— itO  r-<CM 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOCOOO 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
OOO  OOOOO^OOOOOCMOOOO 

CO  o  rj^o  cTco'oo'o  lo  o'o  lo".— To  c:  o  to" 


,   ^   C5  ^   00   »0  rH   1--  r 


)  .-«  C73  lO         ifi  CM 


'OOOOOOOOO 
'wOOOOOOOO 
"OOOOOOOOO 


iO»OOOoOOiOO» 
TCM'-'iOOO'CC^ii-. 


'-<CMco'^iccor--oooo— "C-i 


coTj^iceot^Goaio.— ^CMco■^»oco^^c 

^^^^^^^CMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMC 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3023 


02  5 


C^  lO  CO  ?0  >0  Ci  -H  T*"  «  O  !•-  C^  •-'  O  CO 
-PCDCC— 'OOOOOO— •CTiCS'-'r^-^H 
i-HOCOCJOO'-HOOOr-IOOOO 
•O  »0  to  lO  »■"""""  "~  "~  ■"  ■*  ■"  '"  "^  "^ 


iO*0>0»0»0»CLC'OOiO'0»0 


inOQC^C^-^P^C^^DiO^'^r-iZOCOCX) 


>^  o 


« 


_   --  w     ~  ,r.„-=; ^  :=:  =8 ;=  d,  oj 


.  C3  -<   C3   O  <S  o  'T-" 


o  a  »-;  S2  i.Sx:  £.a  ox:  a  g 


o 


o  oj 
tSi-H  : 


3§WoO.; 
■*  ®3  i 


3  o 


O  03  « 

••ah 


la  o 


£So^°^g 


l~-.0005O'-HC^lC0-^»OCDr>-000iOi-H 
^^^C^CSC^C<»CNC^(MCSC<SiMCOP0 


t'-Moai'^co— i^ooos-^coc^GO 
—  1-^  ^  o  ^o  o 


Ol— "C^OOco-^CiOlCOC^OiC 
-^—1— .001MC4  0— t^OO- 

.— ioo»o-^oococ^tO'-<c^r^iocDcO'Tj*i 


1— I  M         CO         1-t         iCCO<N         -"^^ 


IS« 


'i    .^   rt   tJ    Ui    ^    tZ>  rS  .—  +-I    N  ":>,  n   1— 


d  30i3 
13  2  « 

a  oa  rS  Q' 
03>' 


«  o 


rn    S'   03 


jj  o  <p  a  °  M  o 
«a|^a§a 


o 


5  o'^^O  w  fe  o  03 p3 

nji:!  a  >>~  ®  E  ^ 


^•3 
-2  °-S. 
is      >>—  oi 

"■   wa>? 
»a2 


.-iC^CO'*»OeOt^OOOiO-^C'IOC'^^i 


3024 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 


oi  aj  o  o  CO  T,  ■"  .    en  oi 


w 


i-H  O  O  I^      I  CJ  c^  r^  I>-     I  to  *o  C^  C^  (N  00 


OOOOdC^      I0SCS»0»-I 


lO  t-i  to  »0 


.-I   M         I  —I   rH 


d,^  R  o  ^ 


•^CDO00OC0rti-lC)t--t->-^J*OwiMC0»0'^' 


K  h-  (M  O  iC  CO  ■*  CO 


.OC^lCISOt-^C^CO^»OC-ll>-Oir-<NCC'-*C-JQCCCC5tOOOCDCOI^ 


1  ^  iO  <X:  (N  Tf  i 


O".  — '  o  — '  o  a:  c-i  - 


;i^cciooit--'-'^'Mt--c^ocotocO'-'*cto-« 


icoroiOJOcocoootcr^ooi'-'cco'CCMC^ccc^iGOcn.aiioO'— oc> 


0'->cscccca>i-o- 


t-  CS  Oi  o  cs  -^  <c  o  -^  ' 


Tji  r-i  rh  CN  <<*•  iC'  Oi  ! 


'-<i-»cocc^ec_,i-Hcc  .-HfMcD'-''-' 


«"^0— 'OS— ".--Tjiio        iC"^'-*Ci-«:J< 


'q,  O  Ol 


ooooooocoooooooooooooooooooooco 
oooooooocooooooooiooooooooooooog 
~  ~  ""COCic;oooocoo»coca;occoooo  —  oooooo 


u-:i<Mooooo(N":;xoi>.^roO'— io»ooot-ictoooo»o 


■^"rpc^cscs-^-^c^icQO^o»'^'->":j 


'O-— i(M— 'lOCCOl'-^COi-'iCOlN 


s  .S  g  oj  ^  S  " 'S.° 


coosoor^eocoioc^»oo5» 


HC^cctot-ccio»-<r--ooc<:icc<-''-H3ooo 


•  OC-— iOSCSt--»OtO(Nl>'-OOiO"5t--eOC^*CCD^iOCO'^I 
(M  !>.  r-1  fO  .-I  CO  r-H  <N  <-•  CC  CS  (M  IM  (N  CO  C^  tN  CO  1-*  C^  CS  rH  — i  1-1    i-H  M  CM  i-H  t-.  |>- 


£°.a^^ 


rHOOCCCO«5(MO^^r^C^jOiO»OCOO^HTjH»0'<a'aO^HCDO"«r05n'^I^O«D10 

c4oJ£-c^o>ccsuic4cO"rj;miocococd.-H'oioi-*'00>om^'>ot~^'*>oaJ 

■^  O  ^  ■«*•  C4  CC  CO  CO  00  CO  lO -^  Tj*  CO  r^  00  (N  CO -^  IM  CO  C^ '-H  ^         CCCOtTCO^O 


t;  2  P  ^  Eo 
S  a  c  >  —_ 


,cn 


OOOiCCCOCOC^C^lCJOl^cO-^-^t^I^OicO^^-^OSOlOlI^-^COCOrj-C^COI^O 

cso'CCsr^«:iocot^'Mt^-<5-t^csX)cO'^ooococ'3"<rcc^Hcc:r~--.t^-rj*t^c^ 
?5ooCM;o?i^'-^cocsc'rTr-*oic^^r}'c^iOrHc^co»-i--icM      cicoc4cN»-ir-» 


P  "  *^  ca  J 
i"  «  §  a  K  ^ 


C:cO?CCOO:COOiC:-- '•— •Tj'.— (rfTt*CM»-'W0a5OGC'- 'tCCDC^*-— 'COtI*C^GO 

co-^i'-OTf'-.c^c^oio  —  c^t~-as-^OOCMOr-cMaO'-''~'co-=^coiot^ 

H  u^  c^  00  CO  00  "O  GO  ■--  oi  Qc'  ^  00  cjo  r--^  -^  c^i  r--^  CO  CM*  r-^  oi 
■'■^rQC'O'^oaocMiO'OcococJ'— "•— t      r^-^cc-^-— -co 


00-^  —  ■^CMC^»Oi:CCM 


■^  —  CM  t-  CM  CC  -^  ' 


.-1         CM  CO 


CMGOTT'^I-OOCOOCMQOCCOOCrit'-iOCCiiOOOCOt^OOCOCOCDC'O'rtiOOt^^OOi-l 
OC0»Ct^CDCi'-*C0C0C^Q000  0rjC000CMCDC0*0i0CMCM-^"rr'01i— iTf*I-*CQ0CCO 


GO'^CMiO<-lI>.ODOOOI-t^=OU^COOiGOi: 


cocoTfOi^i^CM-^r^oo^ 


.  o  *o  O  C^  1--  " 


-Ol— ''— '  CM-H  CMCCOOO-- 


i  O  O  Oj  <£i  t-  C 


»<£;G0t-*COO5CM'<*<I^^ 


1-H   .-H   r-H   —.   CM. 


did  o  "^ 
^oS  go 


O'^GOt^OS'— 'lOOSGO'-'— iCOCMtTCCOOCOO-^^CMCMOOCOCMu^GOCMiO 
COCOt^'-Hr- 'CMiOt—  OiOCMCi'-H.-HCniCDO— 'CO-— •00t--<:CCMOG000^t0r*0> 

,-■  .— ."-r         "^C^CM'-i'-HCOCOC'li— «iOCO         CO'-<ClCl.~(.-''— <         f-HCMi— "i-ii-HCO 


W  a 


^82 


r-OiC-^OtjOt^Lf^OCMrj-CMf— .CCCOCOX-^CC'— ^-^GC'OOd-^OJOiiOO-^ 
COCOiCCOCMi— «t^CSir:ciOO»Ot^— <005"^CM'n'lCr-^b-tCt^tiOOCO"^CT)'— '■ 
tOCMCMOiO05  0^"G0'~'»OC0»C"^i0'-.CMiCCMC0ait^O--<CMc0^tO-HCDG0 


'GO         — '  O  CM  lO  C 


.— .    I-H  T-«     't'    CO    ■*?*    !-•    O 


-rfOi-rrO-fOCir'.OOCOCMCMiOTj'i-H 
OOGOiOCCOlOiO'^r^COOOOlOCOOO 
OOCO'— 'COT-iCMiOt—  CMCC'r-'OCOO'— <rj* 


*!— •■^CCC0O»0— iCMC 


iC  O  CM  O  CM  lO  -^ 
"<5^  CO  CO  I~-  CO  ■*  00 
CD  OS  Oi  OO  CO  "^  i£J 


,-1  ^  CM  UDOSCM 


^  CO  CM  CO         OS 


lOCDrPCMcCCOOSCD'OasCO-^C^GOTfCOCDOC'CO 
DiCOCM-— <iCOC'OCM050-- 'Os-^fOOOS-^OOOsOS 
^CM-rf^T^pt^CMOOcO-^O-^LC-^CMtOt^OSOCCO 


COf-i'-''^OSOOOOO-^OOS--  —  ^^-, —    --=;--^--r=^ ^-^^ 

Ot-^Ot^CI-— '.— iTfOOCOt-^iOiCOCM'— <iCOC'OCM050-- 'Os-^fOOOS-^OOOsOS 
1--  CO  —  cc  CO  t^  00  -^  "O  ^ "  "'     ■■     ■■  '     *.  --  —  ^  ^  —  .-  —  .-VI  .^  K^  ^  ^  r^  ^ 


OS  CO  Oi  GC  O  00 


^cooo»oc*1■— 'oococDcoot^toai'^'^'*t^»ooor^ccoOi 


-^OSOOOjOOSC-JQOOOO-TfCOt^-rfi— ti-HCOOS'— 'OSOSOCMCO'— '•O'^^'t^t'-'^ 
Ti-'OiO'XJCOt--— iC^CDOSCOO'-'t~-iOOCMCOOt^t-^'-Hi— 'OSOOOiOCO'-'t-OS 

oTco— rod^cModos"0"od  tjh'cd  t^c^i-Trj^cM^od  oo  o  i->rorod  ^itr  o  tcoo --T 


— .  CsCM  ^        — '  — « 


OS  O  CM         00  TT*         CM  --H  CM  Tt< 


1-H   — I   ^  Ol  ^  CO 


giftS 


iOcccD— '— '•^t^or-r^r^cs-'^osiccoooooOGOiorj'ooO'— ICO— 'C^ioo 


1— iCMT-tr-aJOOOCMOSOOCOOCCO-rf-^t^OiOOCMCMO 


CO  CO  -^  t-  O  — ' 


•-Ht--0'— 'OSl^OSCCOSOO-^OOGOOXJOCTSC^iCOOiO-— -COCOOt"^ 

-^  CM  r^  rC  o  cc  »--£■  rC  00  OS  to  i<  t  >r  CO  lO  "xT  00  CO  t^  r?^  O 

t-u"5  00CMC^|iC'— iCMCMOOCMCCCM»OOS— <-^CMOCOCOn<Tf'n*'^iOt--OSOCO 


ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo 

OC^OOOOOOOOOCiOOOOOiCOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
OOCOOOCSOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


OiO0s»O»CC^IOOOOO0)»O00C 
'Tf-^O'.  C^^CM^f'TfC^COO'^CM'^.— 'I 


.»0C0OiCO*0OOl^»0i0OOOO 

»-HTrot--.CMCMiotcasi— 'CO-— t»oosCM 


-^«co*w«it-ooc»o-rjco2;|02r522S«?3SSiSc?Mc5?3geo 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3025 


CO  CO  --I  1^ 


CCHM  >-l  --1 


*-l  O  -<*'  -^  lO  C^  r 


icco:'Mr-c^i-^a5TtHTt< 


1-H         »0  C^  Ol  CD  ■^  4C  CO         •-"  >-i  CS  CN 


00c0t--CCC^O^CiDO00Q0(McDC0  1^t^ 

0'^c^coc:ocoTj'OTrOiOGOr^40c/D 
TT       oocnr-TirftCcofNO'cO'-rr-rcood"^ 

CM  lO  lO  t^  (N  C^  CO         UOCO         <M 


OOOOOOOOI--OOOOOCO 

OOOOOOOOIMOOOOOOO 

oooooooooooooooo 
o  CD  o"  o  o  o  oT  ic  -rjT  o"  o"  r-T  o"  o"  o*  r^-T 

OOCQiOC^'OrpiOCS-^Tjii.QcOiOOTr'Oi 


.-«       cs       *-« 


co»ooc^iiQ<roooioasr-i,-H'.t^'-HOiOc 


r-t  .-I  rH  1-.  CO  .-1  r 


•  COTf.-HM^CDCO'-'CM 


t^-CDOOCOIMOC'CTiCOCClMcCCJOCOCJCO 
iCCOO'-i'<J'OC?lCOCr)OOCD--'CNCT)CNr^ 

iioo;r^cD'-H.-Jcoodr^tOTjiciGCcoocs' 

,-,,— ir-i.— iiOCMi— (TTOl'^iQC'lCDCOCMCM 
,-1        »o 


iCOh--— iCOOlCDOfOOOCiCOiOCOCM'-S* 


f-ir-.^r-.CO— <.-HiO»0<-tCM'-<GC'^<-iC^ 


t^t-.-^O4CC^CDr>-(MCslC0t 


t-.CS«— ii-iiOtNf-iCD'— "iOO5C*7C4C0C^»CS 


OOCiOO-fTr'XiO-^iOCDiMw-aiOi'^^ 
U-^  CD  Ol  C-l  1— '  to  CO  UC'  O  Tf  r-H  00  CO  r-t  O  1^ 

•^Oi'^cor-^oiTft^-cocor^'-tcO'— <o 

C^  CD  QO  oT  u5"  O  t>^  O  CxT  GO  I>r  O  TjT  CO  CO  csT 

»-«  1-H  CS   «0  CS  CD  »-H   r-H  t>-  1-H  00  Oi  O* 


CO'^OiCOC^'~HCOOOC»r3iOiOiOcC— <- 


.-1  CM  .-.  ^  CM         CM  ^         .-I 


lO^OCDtNOO"^-— >i-«(XCC-^COcO»0 

eo'^r~co^t^r^ooo4'rfOCiCOOot--CD 

Tf<u^iOOCM»OOiO;CC'— 'OCn-nHt^rrt^ 

i-T  CMCM"^cou-i'co'cM'"c^i"      oTo      CM 


HCMiCCO'^OCcDOlCCOOCDco 
5CDiX>CX.CDcOCOOC;CMiOCOl>. 
-u^CM^TfTj-CMOiCCDcJi'-iOO 


"-OiOCMuOOtCTrOCOiO'^GOTl-Ot--CJ 
Oi-^TTt-iO'^CCC^ICCiOCOOO^COO-H 
r^'<?<lOCX3COCMt^iOClOClOC:TfGOOOCOCft 

(N't-TcM  TP       oeo 


cocooooccc«ococcr^to»ocoioi--o 
oi «— ■  <c  to  c-i  o  cc  CO  CM  ">•:>—■  00  t--.  o  r^  t-- 

coiooco050oi^-o-:ffor--io^iocxj 
cot^oi^  r^  iQ-H  cocm'ooT.— rfOTj''"odTp 


I  '.-I  O  — '  CO  o 


COCMCCrrcCOlOiCr^OOTj'CCOi'-HO 

— .  .-^  "-  "*  -^  —  '-^  —  "*  ■-:  o  CO  Tf  oc  I-'  o 


TP  t^  CD  CO  iC  Tj-  O 


CD  ^-  *o  r^CMCM^cTcM'Tr  c5"io  c^ro '-^oDt-T 


Ci  io  CD  CM  o:^ 


■"  CM  Tf  CD  -^  lO  - 


oooooooooooooooo 
oooooooooooooooo 

OOOOOOOO-— "OOOOOOO 

o  CD  o  o  o  o  o  »^' oi  c?  o  tC  cT  iri"  crT  tC 

COCOiOCMiO-^OC^'— '"ijHiOcOiOt^-rj'Oi 


CMcoTfioeDt^QnosO^CMeo-^fiocDt^ 
cocococococoeoco'^-^-rrfTjirji'Tj'"^ 


.2-^ 


??CS?^^S2£i2S?'^'^^°c^:r"^^ocDio>*<cr)OCM 
S2??!SSi^z^!£r^^^'^'£?90t>t^t^cocooai( 


30COOOCC>Or^b»CDCM( 

-v-«-iv'.j_>«5Qot~^t^r^cocoooicDr>-«— I 

5'-?0--hOCMCMCMCM^-^.-<000-^ 


S  ^  S  r^  J 


og;§fe- 


•    -^.2  fe  "^  ^  "^  S  § 


o 

o  tic-,  a 
-w  o.caO  *^ 

.2-1  CO  o  S  W 


!5SfcSR?i'?t'^"^"''--f^ao=^'="|^''^ 


C^  C^  C^l  C^^  [M  CO  C3  CO  CO  CO 


t^  CO  (M  05 

o  c  CO  ira, 

(N  OC  ^  TI'  — 

—  o  o  ^ 
to  o  to  <o 


)  lO  c 


t^CSOt0OCMC0'^OC^05t005(M;-'I^Tfy-t^t^ 

^^     -      -^^"O^S^CiCS—iioCl^C^cot^^OOOJCOOO 
»OtO'0'OlO^O^ntO»r^lY-^lOlr^ 

^  t^  r-  1^  r^  I-  t 

-      ---  -NOIiOOC^I 

tO"  —  ^;^^;ctc^       toc^— .- 


<c^;c— '(Mr^c^cc-HC^ioiiooc^i^.  —  ojo-^-H'- 


'  C^l  C-I  (>) 


cSi 


-O  9 


.^  c 


-?,  5  ?:■ ;«  5  "^  'c  "  x. '' 


^  C.b/.~- 


^  C8 

EZ 


OS^g:3« 

■c.sosci-  : 

no;  »Mh  — ~  tl 


oo 
So 
o§ 

C30 

<z- 


.T3  E  o  SI  a 
=  S^tf-9- 


r-tCMCO-^iOCDt^OOaiO' 


)'^»OCDr--OOOlO'-HCMfO"^ 
in^i-iT-.,-<r-t»-tCMCMCMCM(N 


3026 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


O) 


a> 


°  >^  S  2^2  o  5  i.-^ 

cj      ^      ^       o 


1       1       1  ry^  *-H 

1       1       i<M  CO 

U5 

1       1       i.-i« 

«3 

IM      ■      1 

-^0  — <OiO 
F-^  lO  CO<M  CO 

-J  oC  05  -^  oi 


£;  I  g  a  o  2 

'^  "   n  <^^ 


OlOlt^'-'i-Hi— 'OOOiOCCO^O'MOOOOcCt^'— 1-^ 


UO  CO  -31  CO -^  t^  CO 

CO  O  O  00  CO  CO  r-< 


c^i'^OTp»ooooseO'^QO»o-^coo5t^eoco'^'-<c^cs 

i-HOOiQiOMi-tt^C-lC^         iOCSCOOa'^»-Ht--iOCOCOCOO 


O  t-^  00  00  <N  <N  '-H 

CO         »0         --H  ^  CO 


-tj   C  CD 


oci'-Hcoc^-^ocococ<icooiaioo!NaiO 


Or-i0iOTPOiMm»0-<J<0l 


Ot'-OiCC/DC^t'-Or^Ol-iOCM-^OlOOOlOcOMOCO -       - 

0'<*<CDCC-rf<NOOr^OOO"0(M'rJ^.-l^-Tr»Or-!NC^CSOCOOaiGO^rOOO 


'OO^-ocD'^t^i^eoxr^Oir^ccoi'-'iOi 


jiO'TfrO'^Ocor-ci       cccot^ 
<-i  -rt"  01  oc  lO  ;o  t- 


.-^^  CO 


OOOOOOOOOOCJOOOOOOOOOOO 
OQC3QOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
OOOOOOOO^OOOiOOOOOiOOOOOO 


C^IO^GCiOOiOOOiC 

co^.-<cocs»ccoooaif: 


ICOOOOCSt^^OOOt 


lO  o  o  o  o  o  o 

Tf  0001  0400 


CO  o  o  01 10  o  o 


1^  g  o  o  g  ®a2 
f^  "^  .2  "S  'o  "^  .5  S 


>-<oi^Tr-*rt-cDcor»Oi»C'— «i— icD-^OOr-*.— toor--— 'CDW5-H»ocor-coco 

oooot^ooooc^'-HTfi:ofococob-coooTP''4<a50coocscC'-<oo>— <h-Tr<"^oo 

oo•<^'"<*'Oo6^^^'^cor^»0'^r-^c^^^c>^l^i^■^'(1^'tfojoo^OT)^cooc 

■~«c^^c^^c^c^c^.-*-Hco^i-tcoi-H«coMi-t.-t(r).-i?5.-i,-icor-i^csi-( 


•^t^OSCOiCM<Oi050"^COCXjt^OOCOOiOOcOC 


CO  CO  00  05  f-f  iC  CO  t 


SOSCOCOOCOi-it^O 


3Oi0CC000>'-«'-HtO00"«J*»0C0C^'-H0S*OCSC0CD00 


|tOC^lrJ«C0C0C0C0C^^TfC*lMC0'^M'^*O»CMC0^C0«-«.-ICOTt<C^C0C^ 


coge 


■tf  a  CO   - 


05»o^^cor^oot^05cc^H^HOt^or^'^-^<cc^o--H-^c 


-  CO  CO  00  O  '<J* 


■t-^I^COCD»Ot^"^t^COOJCO^HC^«'9^t*'^OOOsaieOC005COOO^H05eOOOOi 


C^CO^C^C<ICOC^ICO.-H(NCO^.-tiOC^C<IC 


'lMMTJ<-^i-l«;rt-<(NC^ 


-  O  O  — 

®  +j  ®  *^  "^ 

ti  S  £  S.  o  S 

<»  "  3  «  >^  -I 


Tt*«-Hr>-eO'^c^cokO'-Hr-.coco'^OiOicDC^»oiococO'^oc^r--^rpTrcsr- 

oiocOQO^cootcioo«:>OTfiTrcoofoot^cor-.iooooas'-t»o^ooor-- 

■^^>^oJcioc•^ai^ococ^aicoco^^oic»c^c7sc^'^J^lOo6o6--^o6^^ 

CSr^WTj^cO'^-^OiC^^OiMCOO^CSiOC^COC^OC^^CNi.-icO'^CSTt'C^ 


OiOc0c000C^C0*OCC^-*r^c000X»O»OO(N^00'*C00i 
OJOOOCDGOCOOi'^CriOOiMOCOt^'M'-i^COiOt^^-HTrcO 
OOOi'— 'lOC^OC^'^COcOuOOlOOOOasOOCOOh-O-'J'^OCOC'^ 


CO  X  -^  »Ci  00  c 


.-Hoor-ooc^r^coco-^t-aoOcoco*ooi»ocoTj*io»o-* 


I  c^  ^  ^  ^  (O  "^  — « 


CO  CO  ^  OC  --H  CO  i-H 


o  is  a  «^ 


■^OOa>t-OOO0SCD'^CD-*0i0S»0»OO-^CDO00iM00030000CM-*'CD 

(MTfOt^o^oo^occr-.-fC^t^iooooiMO'-'t^oooc^'-iosai'tj'coo 
^«cD^^co^cO'-^coc»5c^c^coc6oc^^^o6c4cooo^'^tN^c^lO«^cd'^'o6 

i-tC<         »^— iCOC^COrHi-liOi-HC^POMWi-lrHi-fr-lt-tMCO^^  CS^ 


Or-nr^OSCO'^r-COCOcOGlOOCDO'— it-r-i000C0»O"^t^t^Tt<C^iOC0cCO 
CD(MC0CD-rfTt«.-HX>'^iOiO^00.-<C0OC0iX>r-»C01C0»O0S^OG000t^CS 

oor-c^eoc^'^0'-''-Hcoiocoooo^OiOiOTfiooocO'~HiMc^c^co^Tt< 
lof      CO  •--<"'o  ^oco '^ci"c4"cocrcTco      r-Tco  "S^cocRodod  cs"  »ocT 


^r^iOCOC0cDC0C0C^COCOC0cDC^t^iOr*t^'-<O5C0CD 

—       -    -jc^osco'^-— 1COCOCOCSCD1— 11— "cooo<Niooia3 


Trt^cor-c*h-eo'' 


<0'^^o<D^ascoc^cococo«-t 


Tt*CDO»i-HCO0C.— iC0»O05C0         ■— tI>.C^C»t^t^iOi-l 


»r;00t--i0010:-^CCOOCDCOOh-»O.-<iO00C00500C000-^00<Nt000O00 
C0C0C0C0(NCD05-rt<(MC^^OC^t^0i00t^TfC0^O.-t0iO'-«OC0*O--Hr^ 

•**^iOC^i330r--c^OicocO'-'C"ioooosoocS'^iooioor*o>»ooc^c^fOO'^ 


Tf   O   ^   ^   ^   f-l 


^S2 


^COO»0'rt*COO'-iC^OOCOu3(MoOOSIM(N»OOI-^eOOOOcDCftt^c00005 

OiC^ococoo-— i'-«.-iccoo(NC^ooaoc^)»oa>coc^»0"^ococor-cO'-ii— <--< 

COCO'«C03»0»r:iCOCDOOCOOiCI-^C001>-C^O(McDuO»r:.0-^^COI:^OOOi 

b^ --H '^a^  00  OS  r^  00  ^  CO  »o  t^  .-T  CO  t^  oi" ^-^  ws  00  M -^^i*"  CD  c^ 


i-H        i-H  00  coc^  c 


^  CO  ^  CO  IN  Tt<  ,-H 


0.00 


■<Cl(Nl--0(NCOOi0^aiCT)'**C-  __.       _     _     --      -_     -. 

C0CCC0CDO<NaiOC0aiCCOC^t^OCDC0O050000C0O00CDOai' 
CD  u^  00 -^  V -rj^  1^  ^5"  ^  00  CD  C^  f-T  oT  CO --H  CO  C^  rlJ" -gf  i^ 

CCCOC^^-Tt*-^'-'C)iC^C^COOOOCDCDi-«COOOiOO>OtOO        <NCOb-0 
€«■  CCCD^Wi-hCICS  I--(MO(Mi-h  CO 


>OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOiCOO 
)000<OOiOOOOOOOOOOOO»OQOOOOO 
:■  OOOOOGOOOO»000000*00-rt<OOC:5C^OO 

r  O  O  O  I>r  o  CO  O  uo  oi"  to' o  o 


C^»DtOOOiOOiOiOOOCS.-»C 

cO'-H.-icocscooor-oO'-Hai^ 


8c^  o  c 
i;D  --H 


^-HC^co-^iOcDr^oooiO-— <c^co-^iocDr~-ooo>o--c^cO'^i 


;  CO  h*  00  0>  O 


-CSC^'MC^C^(NC^C^<MC^CO 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3027 


*o  i-H     I  M  r-  03 

C^  *-H      I  CO  t-^  IN 


CN  O  t-^ 

00  ^  i^ 
.-I  c^ 


^       lO       I  rf<       I       I       1^       I       r  O  CO       I         CO 
CD      'CO      lO      I      I      '  »0      1      1  ^ '"t*"      I        O 

CD'CO'CNii'iOi'TjicOt         UO 
CO       I  CS       '  1-H       I       I       I  I       '         r-H       '^^00 


.-HOSt^-cCCOCOCOOOOCOOncOCOTticOOlCN'— 'O'*^OC00lh--^C0C»h-C005G0CSi0C0O'-HOOC^:001         CO-rt^Ot^f-HOC^OO 


t^iCTf'<Niooioo^ocO'*OTfOooco<Mcoc':iict^y30'-ia50ioooO'-Hi 


..-HQOCOOt^COOiCS        I>.O<MC0.-<I-*-**<C0 


.-HOiOS'^i-t,-t-^t^CCt^O^>0^00^'^t^CTSh*'^f(MCOCOOCOOOCO(NOOL 
■     ■■  -*       ■      ■ " -0  «0  OS  t^ -"^  ^  <N  CD  Tt^  rH  CN  i~t  (M  GO  (N  CO  to  lO 


CSC0OCiOC^i00i«0  C^Ol  lO  ^-  O  O  «D  ■*  t^ 
CO  ■<*«  OO  ■'^  •**<  COC^CO-^-OtJ^  Tt<  *o-«i«co        1-t  i-I 


■rt'OCOC^lCO^CSCOrOC'lOOCOO'^OTt'COt^O'—  X)Cit-^»Or^t--iOO»Oi~iiOCJir-^CDCOOM^i-Hi— 'O         CDOiOC^GO'^CDTt* 

cxicx;i^oiczia:;xi'20t'>co^^c^'CO'^oocooiociiocO'— it^'^r-^'—icooi'^t'-'^QC'-^'^oi^^DCTicn       cdiocD'— 'COi— ••-hcs     to 
cDc»Tho;o»0'^»OTf^|-•csooi^-•^Ol-HC^ocsooocoococDrHCDOOlC>oai■^c^«:'X'«^'-^coc^.  C)      ■— <csgoo3cdo-^cd     ^ 

o  cxToTo^D  c-f  QC  o  o^co  r^'-^'-H  ^^^-^■^'-^o>  oTco  ■«i*"od  oTc^  ccccod      t^*'-H"orc''eoodcsa:cDCL-c^':Di^t^t^    '    *    *    '^ 

-"J^t^i-HC^C^—        COTt^COCNO  (Mt^i-t^.-H         CISI^^         CO        CO_-H{M  !NCD  —         


C^   CD  r-t  -H 


coco  CO 


o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  ■^  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o      oooooooo     © 


OOOOO— "0000000000050000000000000000000000 


OOOOOOO"^ 


OOO-^OOCMOOOOOcOOOOOiOOOO^OOOOOOiOOOI^OOOOOOOOOO        OOOOOOOCO      .^H 

o  ic  o  lo  u^  i-H  i--r  o  u^  O  iC  O '^^  u^  o  o  c^  o  o -^  O  Tt^  o  o  to 


^O-^'tj^c^iOOI^-I^'^O        (N-rfO 


■<OCC'0<~<C)  C^»0»0'-<^00        -rf         CS»OC^O         CSCS 

(N   i-H  CO   ■-'   ^  ^  OO  f-<  rH 


C»^^OCSCOO□0■^•^OO^ClOO■^■^^-.CD<-HO^Oi•--•OOCOCDt^C»lCOOO'-HCOCD(N"^COCOr-«»OCOOO■^C^CO^O«DOOOCO'-' 

oooo5ec^^c^cDOcoo^ooooc^OlC'^ooooo5^c-^^^*o•^lO*ocoosooQO■^oo^oOTr^^ooc30cOiOcDu^l-Hl— i-^co»o 
eoiocD-r^oico--Hcoo6r^tDc^r-^«5r^r-^oi(x5iocoo6ip5Do6*o<»^ 


CJC^i-iC^IC^COC^C^'-tC^CSC^Tt<r 


<  OJ  OS  :C  CO  o 


lOOOl-^CO'-'t^t^Ot-COt-i 


lOC^O^OO'—cOt^CS'MGOGOOI^Oi'^      i'-iiOOi'-<^W'X)0> 


;!Ncocs»ot^ioGocoi>.OTr<io    't-^ooo-^oi-^osco 


;cN-^(N(Noa>coco»o^ 

JOCOOOOCOt^COC^<M<M 


0i'^C0Or^C0CD'-i00I^C0C0Tt«CD0SC0C^I00G0'<^CDTt<OC0^      lOliC— 'OOOiOt^Oi 
C^lTt^,-<T}*iocOtDC^i-HC*^C^COOOC*^i-HTpiOCN|w^COCOCS-xt^(N      iTt^.-HW^CO'-i.-MrH 


.-i(M*Ot^OiOOC<l^(M 
Tt^CSi-HMCOT-^CS-^Oi 


00^  too  oog 

r-1         «0 


cDcDC^c^ooc^foccoooO'-HCD'-H.-HC^Tj^C'j-Hc^c^c^.— l»ooOGOCN■^o•-Hc^coo•^al■^o^--oo^^lOoocDe^OlOC^■-^ 


CD  03  tC  C^  GO  CO  C 


^COOOOCOO'-'CDfNCOCDOJiO-^CJOO'-Ht^ 


CSCSTfCDCDC^-^t^COi-tOJCO'-HOO 

oJcocoO'-HCDoioodo-^oJc^o-^'^i-^'^iOTpcscJ-^t^odtoodto 


05«00srrt^'— "COCOCOOOOO'.'^t^'-H.— I.— .C^IOOQCCOt -     -       --_ 

ClC0r-iC0'^iOCSC0<N-^C0C^l4O.-H!MC^r^CS<-tC-l(MC0'-*C0i-tCN'*— (--H-^OO 


I  lO  CS  iM  ^  1-H  ,-t 


iOOO'-»COCO(Nai'M'-HGOOt--COOt-«CJ'^COCirf<COOiOOOC 

OiCso-^tccotJ-o-HTt^cD'-'.-Hiocoooii^O'^ooooaor^GOC 


>  TP  CO  Tj"  CO  -^ 


CS)OGOC^Oi»OuOr-'--tOOlOiOCD-H 
r-iCNOi'^COCOCSOOCOOt^OitOC^O 


t--'^c<*iocD'-tciocoO'Ocoocooco(Nao'0--<co":)OTfOO 


;  »o  lo  Qo  t^  o  CO 


C0CDC^»O»O":>00C0'M'<fC0-^0i(NCSiO^C0(NiC-^iOC^»OC^      it^wCMt^COr 


lO'^CDOSCOO'^'^Oat 

lOCS--H(MlO«(NCOOtOr-.rHC^T 


COOOOOCOClOsGOOOl^-'O'— '1-^ 
OOiOb'COt--C^-HCOCO'-<t^UDCOu:iCOCD»OOOiOC^'-H--HOCO«2COt^'-<OiCS':D05tOC005*. 


-  .__     -0CC^C0C0C0C^0iCS0iQ0'-*'-H-Tf4Oh*>OOOt^C^t0— ^OlO-^r-iOCDtOOi-taitOI^ 

^o■^^^csoiOcoOTJ*^--oooO'— 'Cscc'O^HO-^r-.oc^'-Hrf'ocotocDC^oOfNC'jaiOiOc^cotoO'-H.-icDco^oo 

.  ^     ._ .  — ._ ^  —  --^  OS  o  -^  CS  CS  -^  C^  .-'  O  c^  ^ 


r-(i-»00C0Ot^X''0  00OC0C0C0C0OiCft'^'-H00O0:-*'-H^O'^-^C0O"rJ<T^C^a5Ou^CDC0C0C00SG0Tj<Oc0<^i00iC0O 


,_(40t— iT-"!^         COOlO»-HC 


1-H   CJ  t^   rH  O   CD  CO 


C^  rH  W 


rt  ■-»  COC^  C^l  t-H  rH 


■^*^^,l005tol^cot^c^0500c■^cooMlO■-Hos^o•-HC^wc^■-H^^lOoO'-Ht^cou^^^■^o^*l00oo5cocOGOTJ^coo>o^ 

CSC^J«2'-Ht-'CO'--OOOiO-^OCO'— >COC^JOt^COy^^*CO^OC^"^0■OltOGOCOOiOCN00005'— 'CO-^00050*001COOiOlOi 

c^!o^CrC0  7tfoig50c;ic^2iror--^ccodO''jocooo7Hcc?"^ 


C-4CO'-H(NCOCO'— iCSC^COCOCvlf 


»-H   .-.   CO   i-H   .-H   ' 


H  COrH  ^  — I  Cq 


COr-t  ,-H  1-1 


C«Ort*COO-— ^'-<tOcOaCQO'-<C'OLOC<I'-HCOCOlOCDOOO:Oi^^(£'050005QO•-^^^OlOC^^--»0"^0'--<CDC^CCC^lO^ 
t^I--iM-:rC^05<C0S'0OiCt^0:  C^OOOOOr^^^iOCOOO-rCOCOr--COOOCO— (GOOrOOCCC^OiO^OOIMOO- — — 


-OCO'-HCO'^COiO'Ot^^O 


-Ot--0iC0tC.-<t^i0.-H.-iOOC0*OCl(N05C0C0C0'^.-i' 


-  CO  Oi  cC'  r-  o  rH  c 


CO  O  >-•  to  <N  ' 


rH  CO  rH    COO 


1  '^  CD    CO    1-1 


-<^^'^^'^cooo■^to^-.o^-ooiOlC 


■i-^-troorHTt^ocDr^coost^fM 


1  1-^  O  00  CD  t^  t^  :0 


COOOcCCJCOCDtOCNOOlCOCO-— i^00<O'— 't>-OOCOO'-'"rtHOS        Oi 


»ai(NtDOC0CDt--O0001t^ 


M  O   .-I   I-H   I-I  -H   O   •• 


O  -^  CD 

rH   O^ 

O  Ol  00 


O  to  CO  r-  ooooo 

CO  tM>  OS  05  cs  to 


WrM  ,-.  C<|-^ 


COOOOCOCOC^)CDOOOCOCOC^001rHOO'-iCOC^'--'OC^C'lCOOOOit-.i»01'^tor^CO-^C^TH»OTt*OCCOtOOTf'tCC^C^COOOt* 
lOOiOlO'-'OCOiO'-^CO-— i^C^— fCOt^000000001CDt^tOC;r^CiClTt<OiOOtOCOOOtOOtOOOCOtOOOt00100CCCMC>'-HCO 

t^c^^^^u^^^J■ooo:cstooc^T}^c^(^^c^lOrHTJ^oooocsoi<^^tOl-(CDtocs^rHrJ^cocooMC^ooorHc^cs 


rHCOC^OOOOOi-— tC0tOC0C^t-rHC0t^0SiOCD00CiO0000O'^O0:C0C0C0C^OtO0i0iOt0Ot--.O0SC000OC^i— 'C^JCO^ 

(X)CM.-'OCO-3'COC^Tft^t^05t^COO'-HOTPOOOOCOOOOiOOO--''<t*<^OtOrt<Tt''<J'tCOCO'VCO'^OTt^tO'<J<OC^tO^ 

^OJOrHTPOCJI^tO^^i-'CMOOt^totO'it'tO'^OiOOOOCSCOOt^r^^toOCOOCOCNt^COCOOOt^COQOtoCOfNCa'^ 


.-it^C^(Ni-Hi-'-^(NCC(Me 


£N  to        00  CN        COOSCO 


C0t^toCDt0t^C0(Ni:^t0c0OOCD(Ne01*'<*^C0O-^00l:-CSt 


.-1  ^  M        to  «  CO        C4        .-( 


iOC<)'*Q0t0OC0C^C0O00C^0;01TP00-;t^'>»00C0C0C0O00tOOG0OC^C0Ot0OCDCi0t0O'0C0C0t^O'«J*00t 

_ . -_ ._._ ■--0CS0lOO'^OI-^0iOO':Cit0C0'-HOt0i-Hr~"^OCD(NC  - 

5»OCN«30010-^COO«5rf>OOtOOiOt^-^tOOOOOOcOOC^CO.-'OOai 


ICOC^OC'ICOtOCDiOCDrt^t^CDCOtOCDCSOlOO'^OI-^OlOO'^CitOC 


I--.tOOtOCOOt^OrHtOt--: 


^R t^^ [P^Iv^S ^'^'^'^'^'^'^ "^  -^ 


»C0— '•-<ai0i-^0— •GCt-^OOiOOl'^t-'^'^OOtOTftoOlOtoCMtOOO'^'^OCli 

^  ^  «^  .  _..  ^  ..  ^  ^   tP  O  to   Oi  <-H  (M  t^  to  >r ■  "*      ~  '"  — 

<— I  t^    CO  1-1    to  IN  f 


tOOr-.t---rrCNI--rGOl 


Oi<-H(Mt-*toOii-iC:)fMooC^t^OO'-i'-<3:Otor-»r 


5  00  00  O)  O  ^  — '  I 


)  00  I-"  (M  iO 


ICOC^C^.— iCOCOCOrH(N,-Ht-, 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO-I^  OOOOOOOO 
(OOOOOi-iOOOOOOOOOOOiOOOOOOOO 
OOO'^OiOCSOOOOOcOOOOOsOOOOtOOOO 


OOOOOOOO 
OO^OOOOOO 
CJlOOOOOOO 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 

SSSSSSSSQ^^ooo-^ 
oooooooooooooooo 


)0'OiO>-<r--.00000--7'iOOO'MOOTf'0-*OOtO 


n^i— "O'^"^c4tooi--i--oo      cioo 


5  O  -H  O  00  to  ^  (M 

(N   -H  CO  rH   .-H  »-. 


OiOOOtoooOO 
C^  lO  to  i-H  !-<  o  to 


•<*^   r-t  C^   to  CI  O 


OOiOtOtOCOiOto'O^ 

^  «^   «.   *,  CO   (TJ   rH   O   rH 


•-tC^COTt^tOcDt^OOOSOrHC^COTPiOCDt^OOOlOrHCSCO'!j<to«Dt^OOOSO'— iC^C0'Tt<»0CDt~^000>O«-»C^C0^tOCDt~--000SO 


COCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCO-<*" 


■^•^'^■^Tt<-^'Tt<totOiOtOtOiO»OtOtOtO?D«DcO^cO?D?O«5DCDl^r^t*b»r-t>-t*t*l-»t>-00 


83876—35 — PT  13- 


3028 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 


«J3  a  a  "  ' 


o'  "  o  t3  ^,-e '-' 


*3  Q  to 


£^^  g  ^  o  g  I  a^ 
P-i     .S  M-a     .g  o 


CI 


<B  «  y  ca-"— I 


»  o  ®  a  X 


£22S2 


M  O. 


HH    O  ■♦-» 


^8S 


CO       I       '       I       I t- 

■rj^    I     1    I    lo 


w:>        CN  CO  Oi  tM  Tj*  C^  CO  >0  iM  C^  C^  00  GO 


ocoi£>cocO"^^^oc^GO-*'cit^r-o 

(MCDCS'^O'^iCt^iOOOQOO-^O 

oT  cc  rH  to  lo  lo  tj^' oT  t-^' oT  ic  — r  c4~  .-T  c^ 

*0^i-<(MrH  CS  W  CC         CO  1-1  Oi  _^ 


ooooooooooooooo 
ooooooooooooooo 

lOOOOOOOOOOtOOOI-iO 

t^  o  o  cT  CD  wri"  gT  o"  lio"  lO  od"  o  o^  ^' ci" 

^O'<*00'-tC^'-tO'^C^— 1"0— *o 


tOiC050iOOO»OGOOCOCOt^O 


CO  w  00  05  CI  t 


t--  03  Oi  O  I^  ^  o 


COr-(M(N  ' 


,,_(,_-(CSl-trHCSf-HCO 


■<J<COOS05CO-^00":i?DCOOO^--<0'^ 

t^t^':dcoico>c4cx)'Ccoosr-^'-^"^»c 

(NT-lr-l(M»Oi-llC.-li-llO'-l<-<COTj'-^ 


-  CO  CO  iM  ■**<  00  -■ 


-co  t^  (N  t^ 


OOcD^OOiOoOCC'^OOOC^CCwt''-" 


^  ^  lO  00  C^  05  C 


^  t'-  — '  CO  fM  t^ 


Cir-t^C000O>OOcDC0OCR>C0C0iO 
COCS<-HC^iOCSiOC<jT-it>.C^T->oOiOl--. 


oo(NaiO<MiooO'^t^cocor^'-Hio:o 

COiOOlCOiOOOiOiOiOOOO— <0':D(N 
0l00(MO00t^(N0iC5"^'—  lOr^Ot^ 

«o  lO  ^^  oT  00  "^  ^  00  o  CO  CO  lO  CO  od  :D 


€><5-CO  t-H 


,-.        i-i        c^ 


l^t^0sas0iC^0i':0O--HO--^00O00 
OOtNOJTfCRCC'Oi^'^COOi.SCDI^CO 

l>^  ifi  lO  O  to  lO  U3  00*  t^  O  CO  rH  CO  oi  o 


OOiC»-H^iO»OiOcOOOOOO"OiO 
•— 'CC>CDCOCDOOCOOOOaOCOCO(MOiiO 
iOrti-rJi(MiCCSC0CCiO00C^CS!NO5U0 


,-.40  ^  iM 
O  OO  --I  CD 
CD  00  ^  r-l 


OCOiCCO-rfiOiOOSCOOOOSiC-rfcO 
CO*OCDcOCDOOCOO"^»OCOC^COOOai 
CO'-Hrr(NiO(MCO(NTfOOC^CDCOOOCO 


00<Mrt<f-iCDOCOOiCO.-iCOI>-»-iO^ 
r-,-lCDCD.-lt^aiCO^b-CO-^<NCDCO 
■^COt--CS|Tj«OiOCO»OCOOOt^COOC^ 

coc^i^.-rcrioioo"t^oocoodod"5"'-H" 


ooocOTt*c^":)cocoiMcocDTt<r-coio 

OlC^C0r^0iC0h-tO00OC0»—C^CD00 
COOcDiOOC^iCiO-rt^O^'^OcO'— 

ioorcDr-r-^'iot^a5"arc^'oco*"(Narc5" 
coo»o-^r-TtiTt^cDioiocO'OcscOr-t 


ooooooooooooooo 

lOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 

t^ooooooooo»ooo-<roi 


^  O '^  O  CD  »0  O  O  » 
»OrP00--tCS^O'^C^' 


03  3 


r2  "^ 
03  3 


Qoooooooooooooooooosasosososos 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3029 


3  eo  ^  c^  --I  CO  "*  c^ ; 


r-IOOOC^OC^Jt^i-H 

■---cot^toioco 


^  <N  CO  r 


COCCOiCCO^"*"^! 


.  r--  r^  i^  I     "     "    ^    ■ 

lO  t^  "Tf  "^  " 


DCOCOC^C^CO       coc^^cs 


O  (TO  CM 


SS  ass's "S 


.0 

W  o  °- 


-  o 


.2£^. 


^2  &e|^H  «|  »S  §5  o-g  Z-^s^ 


C  >-,^Q 


CO  O-ii 


f^-2.^> 


5U  c 


^h^Oh 


O  a::;  c.S 


35R:gSgS-EpS 


^'■^-  a 
.5=3-3° 

i:S  a  o 
' ^  o  .  ■— 


O^ 


fe'S.S  o  g 

d  ^  ^     -^ 


o2r^- 


^^"S- 


l^g 


Co;-. 

cs-a  «  o 


.  p    .ja  o 


5cli  «0 
f  §  c3  O 


r'  bj-gpL,  c.a 


O)   CO   t., 


■'^CO^-XC5O--^'^^^0l"^^OtCt^0001O'-<CMC0■^^0;0^^GCClO--"CMC0Tt^lOC0^*000lO•-<C^CC"^lO 


iOiOiOiO'00«D^':CCOCOCOi:DCOCD5Dt^l 


-t^r'.r-.oooooooooococooOQOQOosoiososoios 


'"C^'^cot^'^r^ar  "^coaiCOOOiC'icMirooocMcococioo^c 


C)    .-H    TJ1    "-J*   Tf    O'    ^'^    -— ' 

OOOOCCMOO 


■*-^-^3C«D!:C'Ot--'— < 


ar-^coaicooa>C'icM«oocMcoocco4  0cO'--OiTf'ooGccoc'ioocO'^r---^fOi— iiocM 
CMt^cocriu^'Ocococoooaiai^oo-^c^joiOTf-ocr^.— •oooaiCMOi-^05r--c-icoQO'--'»o 

rOOOOr^OO*— 'OOOO^-OO^^— •01-- '^OCDOOOO*— 'OO— <— .OO"— '0»0 

'    " r-  t^  I-  t^  t--  r- 1—  i^  I',  r^  t^  r-  r-  t^  t^  r-  t-  r^  lO 

'MCCO'-H^rtI^'^Or0C0(M»OC000'^04»0.-i 


-  .  -  V  - .  -  .  ^  t--  t^  r^  r^  r--  t-  t^  r 

HTt"-— 'C^occ*:icoor-'^oro( 

H  CO  C^  CM  CM  (M  CO         CO  CM  . 


p.  . ,  - 
KS  o 

gap. 


a  o  , 


'^--is^-r.sgs 


a  bjo  ti, 
c25  ! 

i-iOOE 


•■sg-a 


l^>^ 


Ph- 
caO 


Ms^l'oifel^- 


^z^ 


3£oo 


5t;  ><  a  ts 

2    O   C   C3   Q; 


a^fsc>iiga§'Oca>.H&&-a§ag:.2^oSc«ac3^ 

g  o  J?;  M  o  <i  o  W  P5  W  Q  Ph  o  o  Z  2;  f!H  M  m  &H  o  o  Is  M  o  i-j  J  «  Ph  ii< 


|0 

O  t. 

o  ° 
a-o  a 

CO 

!> 

S'c) 

•-'    GJ    p; 


S6   r"3^(5^ 


'P50  © 


.s  a 


=  a  S^  « 


■a 


to  3  «■ 


'  .^  r-  li  t^  cu  c: 
;  t.  S  §  <u  ag 
j^O  >  S  CO  03 


ax: 

03.2 

,Ph  a 
■^  ^  3  oj; 


o  °i 

=>  9-a  ; 
„  a  a- 


,  a  o  5 


O 


§6 

°  S  o  *- -^  £ '5  ^  w  0) 


«    'O 


:as 

;  03X3 


N  o  h;§£'^  3  S 


a  (i,  5  O  ^;^ 


5  t-  a 


•30O 

■3=3 


OH^&HPL,l=l^EHSEH6q»^^H'EHOfef 


S°3krH*^ 
i^  ®  CD   S 

oa^o 


£^■3  a 


cct-ccoo«c^2222^22S;3?3SS:aSfcS2S=:a£2222b£SOs?a?2^'occ.>^«; 


MC-JMC>l(MCVlCMNIM(NcoCOCOCOCOOo55C^COm^T).^ijl^-wi-5W<^ 


3030 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


■^ 

w 

o 

« 

w 

^ 

!~ 

t) 

-tf 

w 

1J 

i^ 

0 

isC 

>-< 

W 

05 

Pi 

a 

« 

f^ 

H 

>-H 

r/i 

3i 

t3 

f-l 

P 

g 

CO 

Q 

Oa 

w 

S 

^ 

hJ 

<u 

Q 

!7; 

!- 

-<! 

0 

hJ 

-< 

0 

CJ 

) 

S 

w 

W 

u 

c 


'""  oj  .—  "^  ^ 

s  a  s-  o  s 

a  y  a  40  — I 

_  O    O  M 


«  2  S 
o  o  5 


0.0  CT> 


fe  «  ^  >  &- 


t;  a  o—   - 
cu  o  S  ca  "S  — ' 


.H  »  Tj  ,3  02 


&*" 


X  s  +^ 


H  S  tfl 


ZS2 


tood'-^oriocC'^cot^o 

Oi  00  ^  ^        O  C>J  C^l 


;s  : 

:SS  :  ; 

.  lO       1 

1  ^  iri     1     1 

1       10     '     ' 

c^cO'— 'r-'— '•-(t^»ooi'— |^»o500coI^o^- 


^-  o  r^  01  ^  CO  <: 


-fOGOOfC^OiOOO 


iCCCO'Jrt-iCCCOiOTTCDO  —  .- ^-- 

■^  r-T  ccT  x~  tp~  "^  CD  ■^""  t^  cc"  »o' lo  cT  oT  o"  r-^  "^  00 


o  lo -— I      c^  o  GO      lO  r- cc  cc  CO 


ooooooooocoooooooo 

C>OOOOCDOOOOOOOOOOOO 
OCCOOOOOOOOjOO^C'OOOO 

O  -h'  o  »o  iC  O  lO  ^c  o'  o  r^  O  00  o"  o  o"  O  o 
CNiOOC^iMOt^fMCOiOGOO        OOiO^^O 


^^CS(NC4i-t^.-(C^lC^)C^I:^TfC0CSCCCSw 


00-HOioocorcot--'— 'oo-— 'O'-Coiooo— j 
.— (cor^<or^cO'^<co»0"^(Noo^ooot^o 

OCOC<i'-HTt*OS'OOiCs't^COod»OcicDiO»---rJ* 
-trcO^(NMi-icD>OCO(NTf<-Hrr(NCSOiC^JC^ 


•— icoicocC'r-ooiOt-»oO'«J*c^ot^ooo 

O  '>^*  "^i  oi  CC  O  ---^  O  oi  CO  O  'O  ■^"  O  lO  c4  kO  oi 


■^cooO'-*oooi^r>-'— ■r-oO'^'^ot'-'—Cico 
;  -^  r^  cc  oi  fo  '-^"  OS  on  00  o  •--  -^  o  M"  00 


■^■^1— iC0'MC^r-CN'0CCiCO»0 


cs   c^   cc 


h-.t--OiOioooooo»oaiooMr-cooooi>- 
ot-^ooot-^CiJ^ioc-Jcor^CMCit^f^cntioo 


CO  C^  t^  -^  ■-' 


--OCN^'^OOO'-'X^ 


OQ0'-'OcD00a)0001'-'00C0CC00(M  t-^cocs 


66-^  CD  CO 


CD-^CCCO    CCiOOi' 


'-•oc^icocoorO'^'-'ooocoaiCDOOicoio 

lOCC'rfiOTt^tMCDOOOSI^'— 'Oit^CS-^COCOCO 

w  1-^  00  ■^'  •-'  00'  t-^  '-'  CO  O  O  >0  CO  CD  h^  O  I-^  iC 
.— iT-HlM(Nr-(T-H.-HiOCOC-5C4^'— •■^COtTCO'-h 


Ot^l^Ot^'^'^l>*O00C'lO— 'COOI--'— '00 

c3Tt«coooo3  —  o■X'^^J"<*^oooooOlOlo^ot■'- 
oo^-^oc^^co^C5I"-co■^■^CiO(^^— coi-t 

■  ^^n^        lO  O  06" lO  GO  CO  O        ■^'-TtCcDCa 
iMCM  t--—         CO-H-^O         COCOCDCN 

OOOOiOOCOfMCSiOt—  ^CDCT'COTt'O^C^'— I 
TT''— •OOi'^rt^CO'^C-II^-OCCCDh-OiOiiO'^ 

tCoir^      co''c-^od"'-''''0*'-H'iio"      05  t^o'co"!— ' 

t—  C$  10  CO  — '  -H  00         OCSCOCM 

CSOiC-IO'^C^iMC^COCOCO'— 'OOOiOOC'Clt^ 
0-^Tt*TfCTi'— 'cOco-^cococn-rpocO'^'r^co 
Tt<»OOl01C0CD'— "iC-^CDTt^OC^OOCOC^t-l--- 

r-'  CO  r-H         •-h"  CO         ■^'  CS  C^  "^r        rt^'  CO  CD  C^f 
CI  ^         c^ 

r-Tfcooc^c^'^t^ocO'-^GO'^ocoiof-io 

C-lCSC^OOt^-— *^-CO-^'— 'CDCMOlcOCMiOOOOO 
•— iOCOCSOiO^COCOCOCDOOI^<»-^OGO'— t 

t^co  cd"o  cD"co"oi"r-- "O  ai"»-rcD"Tp"co"cc  10  O  rf 

^3-Tt<OOTt*        f— "»0'-hO»CiOcO        (MOOCDCO'— ' 


.    ^    Tf    «    O   I^ 


icococsr^»oiO(NCD 


,w.-^  —  .-t--oo^c^oooior-<-H-^cocsoor- 

C0-^CS01"^-»'OC0-^^C0C00000CDOCSC0 

UD  -r'  tc  lO  Oi  O  CO  C^  10  C*f  oT  CD  00  oT  C^  C^*  CO  <-<" 
COOCDCOCMOSOC-^COCDCDO  CJ'X:— •»Oh- 
^g-CDC^i-t         OJ  CN         CS  •-' I— (  CO         O --- CO '-' 


uoooooooasoooooooooo 
cnooooooooooooooooo 

CDOSOOOOOOOOOCO^OOOOO 

»«  --T  co""  lO  lO  ^  <o'  ■^*"  o*  o'  r-'  o  00  o'  o"  o  o  o 
r-j  lo  00  cs  (N  o*  r- '-' CO  ^  00  o  o  o  10  o  10 
*^cc'^     r-       --t   c*   CO  d   01 


T-iNCO^^OCOt^OOOSO-— 'CMCO^»OCDt^CO 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3031 


t^rOOO»0(McOCOO(N 


O      iQ 


H    ;C.> 


C„;5 


o 


J^g.2 


c3  f-h  ra  a  vi 

;;5  ^  ti  tc  "^ 


O'-HCscoTrioccr^Go 


00  »0  »0  lO  QO  ■ 

(M  --'  -H  ^  ro  c 


CIS 


*  O  P-(  Ph  o3  FQ  fc  £h 


oO 
o  M 
O.H 

.5  «r 


tf 


O  _ 


"  =o  S  »  K, 


go;*"-"-'    "^ 

S  a  iJ  >      ^  &     r-' 


0;:.|a.' 


<s 


2  o  is"*" 


w' 


g*^  ».ti  0=; 
ti  S  p  c OC3 
°  "  s  ra  -S"^ 

Ph  "S    0   "   "" 


'S-og 


o  P  „  _  - , 


P  o 


9  o  p'O  ==S3.i=:''t^ 
opSi-*^.^—  u^ 
t.;.  g  «  "  g  fto=" 


t2  o  ca  _- 

p  .P  -^  OP  -3 


feP; 


i:  S  p  cot 

»  C  g  c3  *^ . 


.3  »  c  c  S 
•S  I  fe  ^  " 


P   M   O  g  ,^ 

22253 


oEi 


I  1-H  1-.  10      lOOiOOS      I  lO  ^ 


I  1-1  ^  i-<      1  t^c 


»— tCC-^OOOSCOUOCOCOOOiOS 

"^  ^    I*  O  ci  cc  CO  c^i  00  ci  O  '^J* 


oc  trf  r4  rH  CO  :d      cc  »o      c4"  CO 


000000000000 
000000000000 

OCC-OOOOOOOfMOO 

u^ .— r  ic  o  cT  ^'  tc  10"  o  r-T  lo  o" 


r^CCOC^iOiOOC^OOOCOiO 
Ot-^-^OCSCOli— lOlOOt^ 


t^O>-(COOiOO^t^'-iTt<0 
OCOrjiC^rtTt^Ot^TrOSOSt^ 
r^O(N^odc>tCCOQOOO>OlNl 
OI(M(MTfTt<i-ti-tC^CSOi(OcO 


OOCNCO^lMCCOt^'C^C^'-H 
iCO<— '-Hr-iCMOCOOO^OOO 

^•-^^Tt'CCO^'-'"^oiOcO 
CCC^CC(MCOt-^f-<(NCO00-^(N 


oocoooicccc-rt^oorj*o 
tcr-r-fO'-^-^roc^ioO'-i'^ 

CDirio'r*''cooit^o6'-<iOOw5 


r^ooiocoiMr--0(NOs^-.t-r^ 

QiC'lO'— lO'^COO-^OC^Tt' 

<a3  CO  cT -^  ci"  ed  tt"  CO  10"  CO  CO  oT 


CO^w^COCOO'-'CJ'^OSO 

rroir^t^"rt<-»r«5cDoo»ot^ 


CJOi^^OCO'.'IOOC^' 


:-:*^oc:c:oo-hooo 
'oco'.'iooc^'— ico 

CO'  rn'        (m'  tC  ^- 


(C  -^  O  COOQO 
00  --I  o  10  o  ^ 


^OOCSO^-CMiOCOiOC^r-iO 
-^'^r-.<MO-^C)00"*<NC^CO 


'^co'-^Oi^ocoo5^-r-oct-*"o 

TTi-i-^COCOCDiCiOOOOOCO 
,-Hf-0"Vt-t^<MiC.— iiOiOCO 

a>  00  CO 'I*' cs  rC -^  lo  CO  "<j*"  CO  i-T 


o-— ■•— 'C^oC'C^'^O'-j'oeo—i 

oczrcai-^-TfOoou^oocsco 
Oa:C-JC0-^»rjcct--"^O»Ol^ 


lOOQC-^OCC^COiCt^r^ 


000000c  00000 

OOOOOOOwOOOO 
OCDOOOOOOOfMOO 


»0'-'0000»C»CO'— '"OiO 
C^  ^  O --I  CN       c^  ^  o  c< 


Hcsco-^icot^oooao^c^i 


3032 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


^  ^^3  o  sf?  ° 


^~*  Oi 

00  CO 

^  CO 

»o 

■*  o  >o 

lO-H 

coco 

OIM 

O  00  00 


t^*^  S  ^  '^ 


1^4: 


_     C^uOMOTt^C^OCOCnOOOfOCCOCO-^CDOO-^t-'^'— '-^COiOcO 
rf00t^00O00CiC^«:;rt*iC>OCSiCiC00O(N<:C.— if0C0-<*'^':.CC^00iO 


t^  (N  — <  ^  -rt-  CC-  O  C 


-.-HccoiO'#toeooooo(r:ocoQO^«::coicr 


)'<s<OiOC^'*oai-HOic»oocDOOi05oococ^i-rfaDc 


H  GO  «^  CO  O  h-  C 


O0'-H00t^<:0a>0»00ii— lOOmOSt^OOOOCOi— toc-i-^-^t^oicococooooco 


o 

1 

p 

0 

w 

■+J 

tq 

fl 

M 

o 

U 

) 

H 

1 

PM 

1 

C/J 

<3 

W 

:s 

rt 

sa. 

w 

?^ 

W 

O 

^ 

w 

W 

r/) 

^ 

1-1 

o 

W 

s? 

H 

O 

Z 

*-s^  CO 
p.  O  ct: 


oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo 

OOOOOOOOOOO^TOOOOOOOOOOOOOpOOOO 


:ooooooooooooooo  oo  ^ 


30  o  o  o  o 


iOOOiCOOOr^OOOTfOOOOtCOOOOO»CCOC^iCOtOiO>0 
COCOt^CliOiOi-i'.SiOOiOCOCC'-'OOOiMCMOO'-'O-^^         ^OOO^-tW 


ooo^r-ai'-»t^«3C^^^»ot;cooo»oaiM- 


OOCSOiOOt^iCOCCOC^'^OOCCCGCJ^-— 'O-.C^Ot-^C:; 


S00t-COt^00»Orf^3C^lO 


I  re  c^i  1^  t^  O 


lOiOCOOO^t^Ot 


looocoioo-^tooc^^occoot^cooio'oor^ 


C^.-H.-iT-H^^uO^^JNCO.-iC^^C^CSC^CSC^T-H.-.C^CN.-'CCCSI.-H, 


•-C.  S  a3  "  jij  c.°°? 


■^oooooiococoooooot^wcooiO'-'-^cocoioaicooioaoc^'^OMO 

00(M»OCOC005t^'-^0:O^HascOCOl^^H-^CRXO^Ht^;0'-HC*lCOC^«:icO.-( 

c4  4C  ^^  rH  CO  -^  00  ^  OJ  CO  C>i  -*  T-H  oi  O  O  ^  Ci  lO  O  OJ  •^'  ci  OC  CO  --'  o  t^  so  o 
CO^'-'(MC^CSiOCOOOCSCOOcOCOCOTr01(NC'Jr^^C^CNr-.CO':t*CO'-H(M-# 


s  *^  « "S  .ti  Si 
£  g  s  p  ag 


cJD.-losf^^Ol^:^(M'*oot^TJ<.-^»-.cc^-0"o^cos'^Tt-u:)05CDOooTt*cocC'-l 

CS<NCDO':DOOi-HCD»OtOOO'^COI^CiCOOOC4COiOa)I:^COCC>---"COOS^OO 

>-h"  t^  lo  -4  00  i-H  c^*  00  o  OS  1^  ^  o  CO  o  CO  id  o  oa  00*  c4  '-H  id  c^*  CO  ■^'  od  CO  CO  o 

CO.--irHC^.-(C<lcOi-l(N(NT}*(NcOi-*rPCOCOTPCSi-iCNiCOWW'«^CSrH,-<CO'^ 


ICJ..^-^ 


Ah«-  8  o  =« 


t^^COCO-^OsOOOcOtNOlC^'^C^^^^iOOS'^COCOO'rfOGOOiO-^tO 

<y;:<Nooao»oaiioiMcor^'M'^oic<i!Ococoooaicooocico<oOTfOr--os 
Ob^OscOi--40ic^'ooiTt'Oodoic^':D:do6ocoo6occt-^cscoo:cc.--'C^ 


■^.-Hi— iCNcOC^iC- 


J»Ot— COTfTfiOC^-^CC'- '--iCOC^tM-^TfCOC^CS'-H 


.5  QJ  T?  .2  '^ 


(NO'*O5>O00C0iOC0'©!M.— 'OOiCO'^-HCOiOCOCi-^Ot^C^'OCi-HCO'^ 

05t^O'<tioO'<j"i^O'Xit^ooc^ioocoai:ooooj'^-- r-^Hr^cococot^cnb- 

*Oi— 'COCOOlOSGOCOaiOOO-^OlCOC^OOOJOOOOiC^C^tCCOr-CNoOOJC^ 

f-T  05  c^' id  cft  t^  *d"  o  c^  o  CO  c^*  Oi"  co"  id"  c^*  c^  ic"  urT  o -^^ 


rt  1—1         CO  ' 


1  1-1  lO  00  M  1-1  cs 


S  o  q  g-; 


^^OiO-^OOOOr^COOOTPCOiCOiC^'OcOCOiMOiiOI 


5  o  a>  ^  CO  a>  a>  CO 


C^C^cO<MTt<OOOiCOt^OiOC^005-^t-t^I>0"<*'cOOiOOO^OOCnoONt— 

(^^^o^r5<o■^*ld^^rf<cc^^'-Ildoo"Qdcoco'Tt^c^^oi■^o6o^^ldcdcD^^co 


iCSCOi-iC^  Cn|  CS  C^  CS  ^  .-I  c^  » 


,  CM  r~ir-^r^ 


H^ 


Tt^OiCOCCOiOt^COC^OOfNOOC^COr-'-'b-Tj^CM— .Tj^iC— (OOGC'-O-^iO'^CO 

cDiot^o<N'^r^^iO'*ccoooioa:^  —  xoaiXor-t^io;occco^cD 

I--.— iiOCOCO<CcOr-«cO':OOI>-iOCMiOCOCM'-ii— <(MCOOCOf~*CMCSr-(T-.cO'^ 


C<Jr-iT-t        t^COO5O5O500a>Tt<CM        OOiOOlC^OOCSOiCCC^C 


"COO        00 


^^^GOC^^COCOOi-^COiOC^ 
lOt^OStOt^OOOOOO-^COOO 
1— iiOr*CMt^iOCOOiC0050'MCS 


-^J'(N0CiCCOCO00CO'-i 


Ttt-<J*oO!M-rft^cOOOOil:^cO'*(N^^H 
COa)iCO^COiOiC(NO"*COrOiOOiO 


}  iC  C^  'Tf  CO  t 


00  IMOS         i-< 


-1— iCOi— '■^CO'— 'CO 


OiOTt<o^Tt*-^oco-*aicoococor-oi'Moo"*ooic--<o5^aiOcocoio 

-— <0000'<#iO"^t^-— •■-^CO'— '"^OiCCOCOiOX-^C^l^iOiCt^— 'COCOOOiO.— I 

coiot^coio.-<oc^r^coO'<J*coc^»Or-HTj'cocoocscocooc^-^a3'-«(Nco 
ci  i-T  .-i  co"  id  i-T  ^^  ^  coiC^      ^^icc^      c4"  .-hco      c4" 


O  o: 


C0c0ait^G0C0O00iO-^"^0i<MC<»O»O00Or^h-c0COr 


;  oi  r^  lO  o  c 


j-^dooc^coict^r^oocooi^aoiooioooo-^ 


O)CO00OiCOiOC*J-^COI>-i— ICOOICNOICOO'— tOlCOcOCSi 


lOOOc 

oc , 

O  ^  O  CO  t^ 


rfocoiot— 1— "lOosai-^iot-.r-HTrtcor-c^oococO'— "-^csocoxcoo-- 
.-(.-I,-,      --^j^  cs  CO  lo  o  CO  (M  CM  .-I      00  lo  CO      CO  i-»  o  CO  >— I  Tf  coco 


T3_ 


■^OrfiOOOOOO'-HOCOCOt^COiC— 'COCMOOOOOOCMCO-^O— 'OOCOOiO 

(NOfO'^co'^ooicaioo»oO'*cocr)-<rocMOioicxoooc:i'*fcooo 

OiO-^COi— I'^COiCr-COOOCM-^OOCJJOit^OOOcOOt-^C^IiOO'^OiO'-* 

■^  o  00  00  CO  c<f  CO  ^^  00  ^^  CM  id  Oi  id"  id"  tJ'""  o  o  co' o~  o  t^  00  cm"  (^^"  CO  x^ 

■^COOOCMiOOCMCMCMi-^iOtNCOCMOCOOiCM^OiOCM-^rOO         COOl— ■»      — 


!-<    --I    -^    00  1-1 


^CO         --I 


500000000000QOOQOOOC 


)  OOOOOO  I 


JOOQOOOOOOC 


COOOOOOOiOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOC 


3  o  o  o  oo 
)  o  o  o  o  o 
)  CO  o  oo  o 


D  O  C-l  CO  O  lO  lO  lO 


lOOOiCOCMOl^QQOTfOOOOiOOQQOOiOC- ...     , 

C0c0r--CMiOC^^'*OO»CC0C0T-«0000CMCMOC'-<OTt*00         i-'OQO.-iC^ 
€/^  .-»  ^  r-l  ,-H  1-1  CM  .-1  ,-i  00  rH  ^  CM 


Q  O 

oO 

r\  COTt*iCcOr^OOOlQi-iCSCO'^»CcOt-~OOpiO^CMCO'<*<iOCOr^OOOSOi-<CM 

^  i-<^i-(r-t»-^-Hr-<NC^C*«CMCSC^CMCMC<INcOCOeOCOCOCQeQCOCOCO'^-^'* 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 


3033 


05C0       I        ICO  COt^  IrH  lr-(<Nt^Ttt  I        IrHt^        iCSOO-^iM        '00i-< 

00  Ci      1      1  O         r-H  CO  I  TfJ  I  00  lO  (M*  CO  I      I  •^"  O      1  »0  O  CO  -^*      >  c^o  o 

Cq      1      i(N         -^CO  I  '»-<         --itN  I      'CO— »      '(M'^t^ii'D      'Oii-H 

ri''-^  I  I  iiiOi  i-H,-Hi 


oc^eO'-i  OS 


.-'Csocoa)00-^oor--aoox)(Nt 


;  o  00  »o  ic  o  -^  00 

•  iHi  O  lO  Tt^  O  "T  OC' 


CO  c-i  ir^co 


OCOI^-rt^-rfO-^CO 


wt^OiTt<«Dcr'«C'--ti-tco<N!j:;uO'-»40ioa!cooo>o-<f-<:fd>-occeO'H 

CO    I    (N  N  OiwC^  i-«  ■* -^  00  (N         -^         CO'-iOiyD'^C-Ji-'t-T-'TrC^'^iO 


CO  — <  r*cx 

I    00  CO  (M 
I     ODr-( 


oicoicosiXJO;*oc^ 


00  OS  C^  CO  t- 


SOiC^Ocot-^coh-OcOt— «:D- 


.r-.ccio'^c^-fl'^^ioooiiocr. ' 


■^oot^r-iM»occ^3»0'rrcMTt<cC't--occ.--(N:3iooioo':ooajo 


cC'-'CMcrit^iX''— i^c-i  —  i^ci  —  t^co^-— «>Or 


O-^O""**©      coc/)ooo^-u^ci— <ooooooo<ccoiO'^cooo-rt'aj^ooQOOoocDccoO"^oo-^^c^t-05r-T-Hc»c»ci^ 
T}*" —T  T-T  r^  o  C^  1-s --3^  cs' 00  lO  CD  c4"  ci"  »c  c<r  oT  CD  o  — T  ■^*  ,^ 


OV  "^  yD  CD  o 


OOOOO  O  OO  O  O  O  O  O  Cr  O  O  O  OOOC  O  CD  o  o  o  o 
OOOOO  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  OOCDO  o  o  c  oo 
OOOO-O         OOOOOO'XOOOOOO'-'OOOOOOOO 


300      lOOO  OOOOO      .oooo 


COOO      lOOOOlOOOO 
OOCiO      lOO^iMOC^Ot 


OOOO 


lO  O  lO  O  03  C 


iOi^'DOioiooooooooor'-asooicoooo 


t--C^C*lCO00  0>00(NC^iOiOO"00»0: 


f  OiT-t       -<j<  o  »o  o  o 


l£3  CO'  CM  CC  O  O  O  lO 

1-"  CO  o  CO  »^:'  -^ 


,-^coco05t--oooaicio— I— <oo^colOcocDoocoo^-■^ocoo»ococoQooOl-tO'— •cic-i'-iio-^coooi— i-^ 


T}<,-it'-CJS»005iO»Ot-00-^iOCDr-CDCDtO'^CDCOiOCD(Mt 


I  Ci  lo  T-*  oo  OS  r- 1 


:  CD  OS  t^  lo  o 


<M  COOi  1:^ 
CD  CO  OS  CO 


SfMOsoiooor^-rt'-^ooosoo— 'OtccD'-^r^tOT-'CS- 


^.-icO'-Hcqco'^tN' 


>OfNO-^i^iM'^0'-HCOCD>n»OCjh* 


CSC^C^rPCO-^'-HC^TfC^(Mr-«.-(iN(MCOC^    lOr-i.-i-tncOCC'-ii-i.-tT-HF 


•  coo^-•aso^'OOcDcocoOQOOscoolOsoooocor^^-•cocD— 'OOC^JGOooocococicDt^OTj^u^oc^cscDoso 


3CSOOCD:D»OOOt-CDOCD-^iOOOCO»OC^CD'-'<: 


•-c<i»0'-HO-ias"^Ocoo:''-Hio»ocDcocococDosc^cDcoi>. 


coos■^Tpc4oc>^c^'coTt^os■-H^oi■^'— ''-•coO'-^co'^— 'OOO'-''— <»ccJ|^^Ol--oo■^ 


CO'-H'^'-^t^CO'^'COCSCOt-'.CO         COC^"^OSt--'^CScO"^C:>iOC^l-^COC^COC^CD'OCS.-<t-»OcO'-«'-tC^C 


C-1  <-i  CD  — '  t^ 


CDOSOOr-^OCDOOOOiOOOO— <03C0Tt<C^C^O'—  0'-<O^C'10t^»OmiOOOSOcOOSOO-^CDC^iOt^ 
Tr<<-Ht^050500l^COC^COCDQOCOt^C^Ot^Tt<OSiOI--COiOiOCO-^COOCOt^OOiOuO(Nr-CCCDCCCDUOr-<»--t 


(NC^-^COr-C^'— 'OS'— <CDt--asO»OOScDOi. 


5cDOor-cD-^rjiO'^r>-osoo>ooot--r— ooo 


C^fMcD'-irfcc^-CO<NCOCNCO'-''*i:NC^OSCD'**C^COii:;C4COi-'C^)TriC)CO<N         OS'-Ht-tOCOCC<-i'-«'-tC^'-H 


iOOSO'^r^cDCD(M(NC^CDCDOOOSOC^IOO'Mt^GCOO'^i-'CT!'-'r--»OtOOiOOCO-rf*t^ 


5  CD  O  O  C^  OS" 


OS— 'COC^C^OO-^CSOS-^CN»CSCOC^C^COOO'-H05GOcDcOTt'OOOOOOCD»OCOt^OOOiOC^C''3  0CDCDrHCDOOOOOC^OC^C 


O  (N  '-H  »0  t^  Ol  t-- 


O— 'Tt^O'^0SCMOt^t-<h-O»^C0--'"<:fOC00;CDTj^Or^C0r-iOc0iO000CC0CD00Oi0OlO^C2 


"*(NO0— '^COCDTj^COiOOi^i^'-ttOCMOOOC^^^C^UOU^OI^C^'^OC^lCOC^OlOSC^r-'OOOCOi-tT-HC^C^t-^ 


^osoooo■^OTt^lOl>■"^ososoococoocooc<I^-c^coc^lOcocs"^os"*"**050oo^^O'-H^c■^f^--^-."*'oO'— 1^ 


00»OCOCOCaC3-^OCDr^OC^>OQOC<lTf«OSCOOOit--CD'-<CO'-''— 'OC^t~OOt-.'^'--'OSO'^» 


rHCD00C^r^O'^r^cDtO0S01(NOC0I:^i0Tt<iOOC^'-'»-HiOt^O00r 


■*  O  00  lO  '— '  OS  Id  c 


JiOt--'^(NQCCD'^* 
-  Tf  OS  OO  t^  CS  O  rH  I 


HOsOlCOiOOTt'COOst^t^-*'^OcOiOC-)T 

5    lO       CO  <— <  O  >-•       CO  C^  C^  OS  CO  "^  t-(  CO 


"^rOOCD-— icOcCCSCOOCOiOOi— 'OO^^COCD' 
■I  iM  O  lO  (M         i-»  Tj^  1-1 


■<  00         Tf^  CD  OS  ^ 

00  CO  f-H   rl 


C^CTS-^— ■r^CDCDCDt^lMCOOSO'-liOOOC^ 


O  t^  00  O  C^  OS 

o6  CO  •*'  t^  cc  »d 


CD  r^  cd' 

CO  (N  ^  CO  ■-' 


t-->— 'OSOJCi'^OSOOOOcD—'OiC'^iOOOI^OSOSCDCO 


. JSOJCi'^OSOOC _      -.       ____      __ 

OCOO— 'i— "CD00C^^0Tt^C0OCCCCT^"^I'•■-Hl-HC^(Ji,-<(:^■^t"Ci:lC^lOt^0C0S'-HC^C7i0SC^^C0^>■ 
C^'  00  CD  t^'  CD  O  OS  ■^'  00  iC  C^i  "^'  C^"  O"  C-i  t^  CO  »0  --H  lO  UD  C3S  CS  CO  — ^"  t^  CO'  O  CS  OS  0^ 


U^TP(NcDC^CO"rt<00— 'COOO— 'COC^OOOSOOC^C^-rJ^-rt'CO-^r-'^C^CDt^OCcC-i^^^Oi— <OsiO"rt<CDO"^'OiOCD>-^ 

— -^ ir---0"#cDr-.ioocMUDr-.coocDOsoscri— ioOTt^ocor;cocoi--.coo"^i— 'cDC<icscDcO'^'---^»n--H 

)(:Doo--"Tti.-Hy:5T^cs,-iooTrcO'^r^or^cs'tf^oO(Ni>-ccir^ccoiCMt^osoooio      osooo-^ 


O  t^  iC  (N  00  O  C^  CD  T->  r-«  O  CO  ^  dC  r^        r-H 


oo  CD  O  r^  CD 

C^  CO  lO  O  "3 
05  I>-  1-t  — *  C^ 

CO         -H         CO 


r^  CD  lO  C-l  u^  CD 
r-  »o  to  CD  00  CO 


(>)  o  i-H  ^  ^(M 


(NOOiOC^OOOOt^OCr-OSOr^OOiTD^CD 


jr-ooh-oscoco— 'Oir-'C'— 'OTcoc 


loaooooorococsocDc 


'  rf  O  C4  C^ 


b-cD-^CTsior-^i— t-^i— I 


:  lO  CD       ^ 


(M  OS  I^  — 1  lO 
OS  — <  1— '  OS  wo 

CO  t^or^cD 


^^QOC^oscDco^^c^cDr-Hco^ocooO"!t^cDc^c^cD^-lO^-•oc■^lOcr)c^l>•0'*c^^o■^o^o■^cOlOLOOoocD'-HlocoI 

O000000'-H0STt''*C0^h-OCDcD00CSOcD-H0S0CCDi--*C0C0l-^rPr--^J^0SC0t^C0'-icD0SrHOOCD'^CD'<t'-'C<l00( 
0-*COU:>OOi-(COCOOSCD<Nu^Tji,-HCOCOCOC^t^cD<-iC^O-^COUD»0'^C^tOMCOi—  I'-'idCSCSTti^^^^S'O^        OSOiOC 


CDCD— '■^t~-CD0000tOQ0L 


JOSCDOCCOCDI^OSO'M'OOOOGC 


i-Hr-f^COCDOOOOiiO-^— <cOCMOOOO(MOir-CSr^COOCOOC-1CCcDC 


5  O  OS  (M  CD  OS  C 


^t^(MOSr-»OOOC^<MOt^C^OQO 


^-ooooaioocslOcDlOCMooo^•*c^^cs•-HaolOlO'— 'CD»ccocoGCt't^"OcocooscDcooc-i-*'iO>— 'CDtNO-^i 


>lr^Tj*cot--OSOOcD 


OOOiOOSCDCOOOOSr-— ICI'— it^TfOSCDlCCOC^COOOOSI 


CO        CO         OS 


r^  .-I  uO  C^l  — I         ID  <M  <N  00  CD  O —<  I 


HiOOs-^C^cOOScDC^iOUvCOOOOOOsOS         "Ot-^OCD 


CO  (N  C^l  OC  <N         1-H 


C^OOOr-OOoOOScDOOOsOCDOO'-HCOOCSt^OOsO'M'-tC^t^OOCOcDr-OcDOCOOOlc 

ioot^oosoiocooooiooso»oor^t^ooc^ooor^c^i'-'t^'COC^oor-0'<**or^coociO' 

l^Ot^^^OOSC^J'OOit^t^OiOO'^^CSOOcOO-^COOCOiOCOOO'rJ-CDCDOOOCOOC^C^C 


ir-cs»o— 't^ioooooior^O'^'^ocDOC^'— "C^osc^o-— 'OcD":;'— '■^ooccor-cO'-- 


COTfcOr-Oi— '>— 'lOOO-— '00041^'— 'OOCSOSCOCDCO— <cot 


:  -H  — ^  o  I-- 1 


}»-«O0t— C<l«-H--'CO'—  tTOSiO 


t  uO  OCOS  00 
I  OS  lO  00  t^ 
'  lO  '-'  00  t^ 


oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooioooooooooc 
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooocrjoooooocfNooooooooc 
oooiMcoot^oooooooooooo^oooooooooooosoooooc^oooo»ooooi; 


iOOO»OC^OC^OiDOiOiOiOOOOOOOt--.OOOSi^OOOO<MO'-'OSO»J^iOCOOOOOiOOOC^ 


<■— •OOO'MC^I-OO'OOiOCO-^O' 


^  O  >0  CD  O  f-H  O 


SOc 
.-I   L 


cO'^'Ocoi^QoasOf-ic^coTtiuocot^ooosO'-ic^cO'^iocDr^oooso^c 


'iOCOt^OOOSO'-'C^COTfiOCDI^OOOs 


•^-^Tt^"i^-^*^•^■^iOlOlOiooiOu^ou:llOcDCDco«^^ocDcDcDocD^-^-t-^-^-^-^-^-^-^*oooooooocooooOQOC)Coo 


3034 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTKY 


|■^|^^1-Hco■— r^aiGO'-^co»o»r:.cococoo:t^fCooooM<Ncoooicocjr--coioicc^ccoi 
ii---^cit^-^-^csic05-^r--ir^Gor^^»occco»Oi-.(Maoc^oococct^OOcooMi--  —  I 

iO"^cS'-HTj*Oi-H-HaicDt^'-HCD'-H»oior^*oi>.o:cocOTt'i>.r-^0'0'-HOO»ooox-r-^'— •O'^'-Ht--. 

CO  « 'rji  ^  CO  <M  CO  ^  CO  CO    "^D  CS  1-t  ^  lO  rp  CN  TP  CO  CN    "       --  .-    -,  *.   . ^,  -. 


3  lO  lO 


o  o  o  r--  o  o  »■ 


•OiO         C^CSt-hcOCO  C^JC^J 


CS  CO  «D  --I 


O   " 

p 
So 


oo'-'i: 


^OO 


O  o  t< 


C3  t-S 

5  C  ?2 


03  a 


H'o  dO 


■Wo  ^   .  »r  o  5:  s   ;  bi--  •-  a  "o  dO   -r> 

S  °  a  d'^™  9  ^-o^"  t«  M«  te  9  fi- >>„- 
tt|^  ai^    ->taa[-    .■«;^S_DPo'n° 

43  «  g  3.2  fflja  o.S^  o  «  ta  g  g-S^  g  o 


•  -  5  ■'^  iT  aT 


tSof 


;o5 


6" 
3 -a 


so 

O  (U 

P" 
£0 


1^ 


:o^a 


o  o-a  3 
£'a  °  m 

^  C3 


ea  o 

go 

or2 

;S.2 

oi  o^  a 
<«iOajgf?= 

o  §  gO-.§ 


O^ 


.ad's 

ofeO.2 
a)  a 


Sa^ 
05-g^ 


®-a-= 
■  ja  a  a 


O  ti 

3*2  a 

3  2  3  3 


075i 

be."  ! 


00 


OoO 
E-Oa 


:So3;Cp, 
-3  5fO" 


^  2  S 


^ 


o  a 


g 
3 
t-< 

00  £0  0.H 

iO^g^g^'-c 
a  g  X  2  S  =3  - 

&'3  g  a  o^ 

^  >  ^^  3  _cj  c; 


■a  c3  >j  oj 
r'ja  bca 


2;»5Se 


:;a  a  o  »  o  a 
3^  Sjnj=.a  03 


O  m  X-- 


toi'-ooosO'— '(McoTt-ioor-cooso— tcscoTtHiccor-oooiO- 


ICO'^»OCOh-OOOSO'-''MCO"' 


TtlTt^■^■TJ'o»o«oolOO*OlCO»ocDo:oocDooocoo^-^*^^^-t^^^^*^-•^^l--oooococ<)ooooc«oo 


03  X2 


CO— 'Ocoioccr-Oioo-^r^coococM"<j'oooos-Ha50»oeoooO'*':ocoooc^ooicioi 


CO  r-  to  r^  <©  o 


I-— ■c^O'^r^o-rfOi 


*  'ff  C4  o  r-  • 


'■^CO'^CS*COiOsCD-->t 


)  CN  (N  C^  0  05 


-tj4,_(,_toccc^oc^c^ico'OC^osO'^occocsc^»c:oc^cS'^coi--a5t^ocooc^ooocooor-cO'-HGCC^'— "COO- 


h^OO'-hOOOO^'-'CO^OC^^COO'—OCO'-'OOOO-hO^OO^-^OcOOO 


lO  lO  lO  to  *o  >o  t 


r-,r^r^r^r^t~^t^t^t^i^r-r,t^t 


J»0»0i0'0t0<0>0t0i0»0i0i0t0t0'0>0i0'0»0»0>0»0<0'0i0t 


t^    —    —    -H    ^   O 


^  10  -#  cs  r-  '^  c  .    , 

CO-— <CD'-«COCC>'— iC^ 


.r^r^t^r^t^t^i:^i^t^t-,r-r--t 


lOtCtOiOiOtOtOiO 


■•CDC^lCOrOi— "cD»OC^'OtOCOC^C^Ot--CS»-'r--»-iOt 


OC^cD'-H.-HwOOOiO'-H 


CO  IM    COCO    CO  CS    CO  O  IM    CO    CO  — 1  CO    CO    <N       Tt*  .-h  O?  CO  ^  •-<  CO  CM  C^ 


Tsi^^l 


:^li 


3:::  a,  , 
3^1,05  3 


._   .0 
■~  "K  ftj4 ' 
'-''  2  a  ^  ' 

•Tj  p  —  >^ ; 

—   U)  rl   ? 


r^'S 


^.^-I^.^VaS^- J |5>t  § il^S^I^- -^-^-|ss-  S^-5-^l 


S^.  .^5i 


itaJz;-? 


Mfl  is^  St^^S  ^  g-2  &:.§  ^.H  i  &  e.g  S-5(g  3  ^  >  fe  ^  „  =  .H.2  &  0".=  g  a-55 
o.H  ®.^i.2  o.^i  !u  ®^J35s5'-c.2  »  >.^S.  ^^  °£^£S  o.a4=  o^^^s^H  o  ce 

mo«mffl^Mo:z;5Q^oo2i-;ra2;Mmu^o:2;;2;i-jfeo^:z;Z;mootfw 


ij=  o.a  » 


PL,0   , 


a  a> 
p  a  o 

'-at, 
'fc'H  «  m  w 

°3  g&^=5  d 


T3  a 


2x30 
TJ  k.  a 

aj  3  o 


g  a  c3<-. 

•  X  o  o 
POHfUf. 


'30U-5. 
3O    •  li 


rtir  a  s'-^ 
»  5:  -^  u  ~ 
i-e<i>8  2'3 

o  ja  — ■  j3  o 


'<^    y^yZt   -^-hH 

O  a  ajM  X  . 

„  S  a  >>0  fe 


'^   <3J   u,   o   >-   M 

•ja  053a 


oo 


a  o 

a  oOO    r  . 
oa«b.°,S° 
M  _  -S  a  !-■  5  O 

°.2  o  2  a^  o 

°  2-£i3'-g_  03 

0_§S3xJg 
anOH  a 

t^  o!  "^  OT  •-  ®  O 

>"  a  ~  03  c:  —  ' 


O  ft 


5"f£g(3 

a  I-  P  :n  S  !? 


O  d 


g-c-aci-a^j^SaKa-TS 


5  a  fe  o  g  bD—  ,.;'^'-'  m 


■2^1'  _ 

^"^SSSag  a«Saj«a 


o  o  o 
.2S'-' 
§  '"3 

2|g^5Sg.^^"sg 

g  gj=j=ja  g.a  as^  03 


*C^CO'»J<*O^I^00050^C^CO'^'0«Ot^C0050-.*'NOO-^»Ocpr^OOCnO^CsICC'^WO«Dt^OOC»0.-«C<IM'^»0 

rHrt^r-4.-.^^w.-t,-«(NW(Mcsic^C4o5c^c^cscocoeoeococcoocococc-<*''^'^'<J*'^'^ 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3035 


><B  q  a  "  o^x:  »  o 


»  f  g  c3  fi  '-' 


•»^Jii  to 


^  ^  O  ^  O  X  CD 


"S-25    d- 


o  fl  9  1-  -^   '--^  '^  — ' 

^  o  rtde  D  ^  c3  1^^ 


OJ  "  5  >  aJ' 


O:  CO      I  ^  (N  Oi(N  O  Oi  r^      it^OOitNiOOS 
■Tl*  QO      I  CS  to  O  iM  O  CM  .— <      .  C^  lO  O  Ol  CO  «D 


a:  -^  OS  GO  h- CO 


05'-<r^-<J'Cit^«OOTPa3'^050cDOOC^ 

ccc4c<jo6oiiocDio^c5oic^oioiood  i* 

(N  .-»  lO  CO  »0 -^f  T-"  CO  O  iQ -*        CS  <N  I 

I  W  .-H  ,-t 


^-^OCO^OOaOQOcDiCO'^ 

co■-^coc«^-^TJ^cncolOO''*^'cocdo      coi-h 


COfOOCOI>.lOCSiOCOiOC 


(M   i-H  ^   ' 


ooooooooooooooo 
ooooooooooooooo 
ooot-oi-oocooooooo 


•  :s  o  o  ooi  »o  ^ 


^OCC'OtT^OOOO 


5C0OOO^C^i0C0O:0»000O'-iOO 


iot--O'-H^-Tt<iou:)r--^'*c0":>(M»oi^Q0 
ooi'-ic^<o-^0'-iTt<coor--Tr"xi«3-^'^ 

co-^cdodcJuoi-Heoocsoot^cDOi-H^* 
c<icscmo"*cs*oioccc^«ccc^c^cococo 


OicOOCMOOt^COCO(Mt^-<*^t^GOasCNOt^ 

t-^  o  Tp  »o  CO  t^  i-H  "r}5  iQ  o  ci  o  t-^  ai  iM*  cm'  ^ 

CMCOCO-^iOCOCOCOCOCOCMCOCSiOCOCOtP 


COCOiOOiCh-CMOSOO-^OiCDOiOO-rf'-H 
OOOSiO^Oi— icOOOOiiOGOOO'-HCDcCt^ 

CO  CO  CM  — ""  t^  CO  CO  CM  ^'  ^*  »0  w  CO  CM  CM  '^*  CO 
COCOCOiOr-COO-— 'i0C0CM»0'<J«-^C0^O 


®  ^  n  c^t^""* 


COiOCMiO-— lOt'-OCOO'-HCOO^CMiOt- 
OOOOr^C040GOI>.t^t-COCO'OCMC0003 

oJ'Tjloo-^odcdaJ^'cd-rj't^^TjJTfJTjJioi^ 


CO-^-iJ^'^OlCCDCOCMC 


S  lO  -^  G>  CO  *0  t-- 


t^cooocMcoai'-<cMrHO>-HOOiC5t-'-co<: 


t--   lO  O   t^  --H   1-H   -. 


H  CO  I--  lO  CM  CM  00  O 


00Ol^DCM'^-«J*COr^COt^CM--<00COCMai'<T^ 


o  o  X  +^  9  5 


OiOiCMt'-OCOCMOO'^OOOiiOCMOOt^OOi 


O  CO  O  Ci  t--  CO  ' 


icoTpcocO'^cooi'^co 


OCMCft'^t^COCMCMOOO^Ot^COiOCM^ 
CO  CO  CM  »0  rj*  CO  to  *0 -'J^  CS  CM -rp  CO  CO         ■«*< -^ 


r^COO'tfasCOCOCM'rt^C^lCMCMOt-^COas 

Oicooh-cjocor^'-'ai'— <c-ioioOCMco 

OOOOOTt*Tj*i>.cOCC001cOCDtOi— iCM05tO 

>j:rt-^arcrioi->rcococ^fco»cwcDt^     oT'TjI" 

CMCOCDOliOCOiOCMcOCO         COOOCO         --  — 


CM         CM  CI  1— ' 


•-H   rt  lO 


rt^TpCMOs-— ioasc^co-^05»oc<ios 
osoir--'— (lOOJOiooico-— ii-^co-rf* 
cor-cOGO":)GOOioait--cococMoo 


CMOlcOCO-^CMOoOOOCOrJ^OO'-H.— I 
0iC0r--Q0"Tt^C0C^lOCMiO        CMCOC-I 

-"-  r-HCM.-H  Wt'CO  ,-lr-l 


or-»ooocot--iO'— "Xicor^GOQOioco-^ 


ococotor--— <»o— 'C-1 


I  C^  -^  CO  O  O  lO  CO 


OOOOQOXJ'^COOC'JCMCniC-lCOCMasoO 

CO  ic  cf  ic  o  T^'  cm"  Qo  CO  o  .-T  CM*"  ci"  O       iC  lO 


T?^ 


i^--.t^C0»OCMr--'^iOCMCOCM01C0C^0i'— t 

r^Gi'— 'Tr'Tj*cMo*c»oot^aiiOGOcooTt< 

l--t^COt--00'— <l--COCOr-O0I--COCSTt^O5O5 


OcOO-^iCCOi— I— tOJTfi--.   -..- 
■-       '""■■^CM-— 'COCMt^CMCMt--GOt 


I-.-rHt-lCCO'-HOCO 


1  CO  CO  O  "J^ 

_:)  r^      '^  lo 

'^J^CO         CM  .-H 


>co-^r-tOGOcoior^co 


;^CMiOiOC0005'-H-<^COCDOCC'— 'OiGOCO 

iV^-^cccococD-H.-«T^aoooi — 

,— ,  CD  CO  OioT  CD  *OTt^"iOCO"'-<"0  05rt<"ot--^0 

CM'-'r-''^'— 'CiOi^iOOOiOOJOi-— foOOi 

-co  CMcO-^ClCfltOwt^.-H.-.OoO         CI  CM 


SSSSSSSOooooooooo 
^^oooooooooooooooo 


»  ^  O  O  O  O  O  1— I 

I  cis"  o  o"  o"  cT  lo  00 


OOCCOOOOOO 


QQjOOOOOCMiOCOO 
-CM  O '-•COCM  CO  Tj* 


•ooooo-^oooo 


-        iOOO  r-t  lO  O 

i-iO  TP        CMCM 
i-T  CM 


i-lC^C0T}<iOC0t^000>O^CMC0'^iOC0t>. 


lO  T-l  OC  0-3  lO  lO  Oi  i-H 
GO  Oi  t^  00  lO  CM  -O  O 
^(.lOOOQOCOCMQO 
CO— 'OOO-—  o 
tOiC»0ioi0i0iC»0 

i^  1--  t^  t^  t^  t--  r-  t^ 

COTOC^iOOOCM 
CO  -H  CO  ^  r-t  C4  OO  CM 


rt  pL,  n  J3  •;: 
•  S  "S .'::  .t^  ^  oj  ^ 

02  W  H- P2  A  CO  Q  ?- 


o: 


r-j  O  O"  rn 


^    0-    3    "    01. 


■"*   O   C   ^ 


cCh 


—  o 


OTpoooa^'^CMioo: 
ocor--7-oocoocoo 

■UDCOCMClOOOO'-HOi 
OO-—  CMC^OOCJO 
i00>rji0<0'0i0>it)»0 


i-~  r^  r^  h- 


CM  lO  ^  iC  *C  CM  CM  C  .      , 

CM^OrO— 'i-iT-iCMr-iiO 


n  ry;  —  M  -2  r3  a  i>  o 
c«3,t;3x5=J=0 

Kt;2;QPuQPL,i;oo 


SSgoO 


S  2  5  „ 
1  3  b  03  5 

fe^  l-  o 


m  o 


"'  P  ?5  S  S  2 


a  fl  g 

o)  &-3  <i>  id  s>£^  g 

rH  N  CO  ■*'  ira  to  t~.'  00  OJ 


■o 


3036 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


,^  rt  »--   t>    I    o 


W  CD  -^ 


<X) 


O  OC  Tt<  CC  0>  Ci       lOib-Tt^       1  ■*  ■<«  ^  W -rf  Ol  C?5 '-'  O:  CC  ^  'tJ^ 
-— '  O  O-C)  O  »0  -^       I  GO  t-  O  ■      "~      ~  "      "'  ■ "  — 


1-1  CC  CC  C»  '-'  CO 


r--  -H     I  cft  -^  I- 


rr  CS  CI  »^  cs 


at  jj 

q3  a  i 


oooioccocsr^O':oiOGCOooc^ooooc5"0'^asoco5'^ccocc-^oo 


csi:DCTit^.-»c;ir-«0C'^ooc^oic^»ccct^oc:cJecO5 


»o  lO  o  -^  «o 


(NOfC'*ioo»oicrO'tj*t    _ 


■SS2 
^82 


05cr.  e^ccc^c<)r-Heo(NaoQOfC---''*'^QOrr'OiC^ococ<iiC'Ccooc-ioo-^ai 


.-«ioc;»occi--tstrc'^c^'-Hco"OOC*Joo»ocs, 
cCt-C5C)t^r-it^coaiOl--OOOOTj<C^(NiCi^O: 


7  Ci  cc  Oi  -^  c-i  oc  i;©  ■■,   _ 


co»0:DaiCC        »OCCTf  t--.irj  cSiOCOCOCOTt<0'— 'CC»OcOCOC^iOOSCi(NuiOi 


r-H   .->   C^  Oi  — < 


CO  CO  1-'  .-H  cs  uo 


COt^  ClT-Hr-l.-l 


oooc  oooooocrooooooooooooooooooo 
oooooooooooooooococooooocooooo 

OiO^-HCTJOCOOOOOCOOCCCNOGCOOOOt-OOOOCOOO 

'—r -J"  rvT  CO*  Iff '  CO  OS  ■--^"  i"^  o  c^  T)^  o  CO -^  t^  o  c^  *o  cT  cT  c^r  cT  cT 


;  iO  -^  --t  IM  i-l 


■*c^-rH'^.-'c?coco— «orcc^a;c;t--t 


•oo»^dooc^cO'y:'»Citcc:;o 


<N£rOCaC^(MCMC'i--HCS-^(N'^'^J»C»C.-tC^r-.C^cOi-H.-iC^.-HCNC-3rHCS(NCO 


o  c  b  L,  -^  .^—  o  • 


:?5aja'e-s2    5 


Oi  C^J  O  iC  "^  00 

(M  r^  »-«  ^  .— (  cs 

(yr  lO  c4  'ft^'  Oi  Ci 


CSCC0iTrOCCi0vO0;O'-<00G0G000l>-'-'-rji00(M.-«fQC5 

'^ccooa;t'^co':coioGo'oi--^'c:'^coocoo'y3o6o6co 
(Mooccot^c^ioiC'->!:ct--iocor-(N--icoior--^Tfi-H4o 


£  §  a  a  o  2 


OCO'^QT'iMiO      ■cOCOOOC^OC7iCOOt^Oi<M-Tt<CO'Mh-»OCDCC" 


-CNt^'<j<OQOr^co--<":;o(MOO^o^csc 


I  O  0(N  <r5  GO 


coosc^oo-— tco     iC^— >iocooococor"-csr-oit^cO'-HC'ic^cot--oo<:C'ioiooo 


«  o  J5  £^  J- 


uOiOO(MO'-tCO^iO'<*'i 


r^-  cC'  GO  CO  c 


I^Tt^'^fOGOaiCO— 'CSt^-CO'^CDt^O'^'— 'T'-O 
.„.      . i0CS'-<O*OC0C0O00C00S 


iTTcccoicco^cocscoaicoaoiocr.  C' 


— '   CI  CO  -"H   -H 


>iOTPO00C0iOC0CDCS0SiO'^a2OO"^^C0OCC»Oi— CO 


Tf  CS  --«  i-H  C^  !>.  CS 


^  0  rH   ^  r-l  — t 


COCOOiOOOO-^CSQOi0050C"^u^-<5<OsOOiOiOt~-..-irf<i-(coO-- '■^OS'— ( 
CO'-Ht^iOOSt^OOaitD«DCSO>«CiOt^'-iiOt^-^'<J-OOClCDC100t»COOOOS 


coCM<o--<ccososio;c?D»o» 

(M  Tj<  (N  <N  C3        --t  -^ 


•  COGC<rOCOt^u:>Ti*0500GCOTtH»005 
*<N.-«C^-<*^CO.-<i-ti->C^.-i^i-(WcO 


I-^^400SC0OQ0Tf^-HTfC0CD^Ot^C0r^-<J<iOC--(M(M' 


:  o:  CD  00  CO  o 


ooscor-a-t—Qoc^cMooco-— '(Mcoc^'-tOsooTrt^oofoaoiOMcocccoo 

OCCO-— 'aS00'Ol>.r0OC0C^CSO000SC0fN«^"^CM'-<0000^G0"^O0S»-'d 

fOC^^-^       rf"QO 


i-H  i-H   lO 


i-H      ■*  o  cs  CO -^  c;  CO  c 


i-t  O  OS  l^  O  "(J*  00 
O  t^  lO  OO  CO  CO  c^ 


coooooc^csoocr-tMco-^Cn^'-'OOSGrcs 

b-OSGOI^Oa:cOCCiOt--fr'IC^Tt^»C-I--05t--C3 

coirsTt^r- «cotoccio<:Dicico-^t^t-»iCcoo 

T^  t^t-^C^'co'  00  OO'  C^        C^'  t^  T-T  CO  GO 


CD'-HCCC^COOO'^CtC^COOCOC^Oi'— *Gr;CD»OCMOOSOO'**"00'-'a;»C'-i 

0(Mr^as:ccocDC-JOooco^ioco^ooocT:iOGOC)0'-'cc^t^«Dcc*0!C 

OOO'^CO'-HCO'^COOJOCMCSCOCSTr'.-'OiaSOSCOOCOCOOsrtiOOOCOI-^OO 
i-T^C^f         t^  <N'  COr-T  i-H'*J^'i-H  CO 


-4J  c  r- 
a>  C  <— « 


>^2 


C-1  cc  »0  — «  OS  -^  -^  O  <: 

OOQOCOCslt^Tt*.— ".-il--.Tj<00» 


SCOO-^O^CDt^cDQCCJU^OOCCiOOSCOsr^O 

■  —  '-crico'M-Hu:;ocso^Oico'^iOTr''^cc»o 


^o»oo^QO'-looo"*c^ooooco»o■^TfC^^'— >c^ic;Da~-cococccoOi-<r-a:'^ 
ooTc^coodioaricuouTcococo-^'-HOorososcDcoTt'' 


OOtCOiMO'-H— (CNOOS'^CO^O-^tNOOr^iOCCr-aro-^CiOOOiOCMUO 

c.  lOcD-— "cO'^-^t— t^GOO— •ooo»ou':)oc.  !MTrcoaooc^"<f€JOccosc^ 
0"^oO'--•rHooco^*c^ool4:;cfl'<^<oo^'-|'<*<^*^*oo<N-<TlocT:t^O'--:ICSlO^ 

CO  x' rO  O  CD  CO  ^' ■'^  Cr  CD  r^  t-^ -^'"  CD  ^"  CJ"  OT  C^  00  lO  iC  TP*  o  u^ 


I^COt^iOOiCSCOCO-^O'-H 


"O5C0aSC0t^«5C^CNI>-C0iCOSC^-^'^ 


o  ooo  oo 
o  o  oo  o  o 
o  lo  --"  as  c  o 


O— I  C^  CO  iCG 

CD  »0  TJ<   1-1   CI   r 


lOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 

looooooooooooocrooooooooo 

lOOOOCOOOOCSOGCOOOOI^OOOOOOOO 

I  i-Ht^c:5"cs'^o<0'^crcJotocrocfcd'ooiC"^*c4"oio' 

*0.-i         CS  tO'«*«Cv|C^C^IOGOW»OC'-iC)r-.^M 


i-HC^CO'^*CCOt^OOOSO'-tC1CC'^«OCOt^OOaspi-lC5CO"" 


iNNWC^iNNMNNeo 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3037 


100. 09 
16.04 
10.98 
----- 

97.14 
63.82 
28.16 

i9.'2i 

31.29 

79.'64 
12.96 
21.73 
6.506 
68.  36 
35.34 
9.57 
42.27 
11.62 

3.94 

77.21 
70.18 

36.'68 
37.41 

3i.'97 

88."6i 

47.53 
10.45 
17.89 
24.19 

19.90 
51.83 

8."36 
37.06 
67.60 

096 

581 
204 
6S0 
130 
570 
303 
480 
861 
690 
152 
038 
395 
567 
295 
.586 
447 
585 
362 
164 
311 
515 
415 
041 
523 
202 
772 

462 
205 
796 
014 
214 
287 
535 
066 
161 
017 
026 
157 
406 
840 
023 
333 
607 
411 
786 
498 
828 

eO-OOOC^t-^O'—'-'iO'^t^CDTt'QOCDCnC-J-^inOC^^COCC-^iCiO      ii~iCOiCCO»OiOi-i         CD(N»0(M^'fT*t^--'iCCO(N         GOt^ 
coco                                  r-.Ot^lOrH           (N.-lC-JOO't<                  -Wi^lO^COr^               .           CO          1-1           CO                  ■^CO.-H           C^rM           „CS           „            ^ 

OOOCOQOOOOOOOOOOOOCOOOCOOOOOOOO      iCOO      fOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


OOOOOOOOOOOOCO'OOOOOOOi.-OOOOOOOOCD      iC;00      lOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


O»OOOOOOOOOCCi00O(NC:OOOOC^cDOOOOOOu:;OO      lOOO 


OOtNOOOCOOOC^OO^ 


ot^-iocooocO'-HO'or-.X'Ocso^ooococio^oo" 


.-iCMCviCNCOt—  1— .C^Ot 


.->  Oi  C^  (N  CD  *0 -^  » 


iC  O  O     I  O  00  O  O  O:  O  »0  O  CO  O  00  00  <N  o  i>- 


^COOt"^         I— ti— lO'       iCOTft-H       ii—tt^OOCOC^I>-*Oi-<iO»— ••—''— ICO-—" 


■co^^c^.— ir--<r-.owo"-CiC-ccoDQOt--'--'oct~^r>-Oi05COcooo>Tt^coccioioi^c<iooo5-^o 

,— .^^^      —  ._       .       .-_ -0JioC0ClcD'^CDCM.-*Ot^COC0OTf*»D00'--<OQ0«:>CSC0C^ 


r-JCOCiOOiOi— <CDO"^C ,.,       ..,„_,„ 

iOX>r-*C^COCOt— i-HCOt— iOCOOOi-^t-CDCDr-'t-ioot^l-' 

c4  •^*  "^'  Oi  b^  T}'  CI  (jj  co'  lo  T^*  00  o  t^  t-^  r-  o  CO  CO  ci  00  o^  Tf'  r-^  o  •— 

CC'-HCOi-lt-iC^lCOC^r-^C^C^C^CCCCCSC<IC'-)CSC^i-WCOr-HC<»C^COCOCOC^li-<CO.—  -— iC^i-lr-.iOCSC^.-'C^ 


C0•-tcOO0Cc00000O■^^-C^■^0CcD^^00e0'-'»-H^OC^C/'•■— ^■^"^COOOt-C^rJ^OOlCOCOCOrt'OOCOCDb-Tf^OCO'-HCO'-f'^  ,X3 

t'-cO'— lCseoT-H(Ocooc^co^-■^oc■^»'-lOTJ'C^co1— 'Oicoioo^ocoocoo5aicoa>oco»or--i-H'^'^oo-^'--'t--ooTt^  -*^ 

coTpoooi'-^g50ClOc)C^'^^CD005^'o6coo:OTp'^J«occ'"*lOoio^-^cd  o 

ooc^ooi— <CJ6JO»cc^ccccc^»CTj'r-.TrioocC'^ic^*coc^Tt<osccc^cocoo5i-«c^oC'-H»^coMc^csco^^c^coococ^w:>coi--t  s 


OTt^01C00CO"^<— "OiC'COO*— *OOiOcOC-4COCOCOOC7lC5r^OOCDC^OOiCO'^CO'#OiOOOU^OCOCSO»Oa3CDOOCOOOTfCO 


OOiC'— icOOC»Ct-CDCD>f;0:(NcOC^.— ICC»C.— '1— '0ilC■■-+'.-^Oa0lOlO0iC'4■^^- 


O00'— <05C0i0C0t-^»0C^CDO 


O  r-(N  o  c; 


:  »o  00  •*  ^  Tf  o  o 


t"-  CO'  CO  O  ■-' 


OOCO— 'COOCCOCir--^-— <r^OlC<ICDOOCDOOOOO'— '^'— 'C^OOliO 


tOi-lCDCSi— 'CO-J^Tf.— 'COCO■^'COt■-•»<"^j1C•4CO■^C^»OC^COC^^^»O^C4r-llOl-Hr-^COC^J|— 'OiTPC^-— lOJ^ 


lOOOCOCD-^OOCO^C 
OOOOCDr-iOOC-'^O&COt 


I -rf  cr.  ^  CO  to  C-i  ■ 


'■^Ol-— iiOC^CD'--'CCOiC 


•iCH^CoOCOiOCOiCCOCDGO'^^^'^'OcDi— 'CO^-CD'-H' 


t-  O  t--  — '  »0  CO  03 


j.-'-^^iccooaiC^iooicoaioo'OX'OOOQO'— 'Oco 


*-•  Ci  lO  O  "■ 


LCC^C^|XJC0"0I^W■^^-OC0^0C"^O■--■L'^-HO0i•-^DlC^■'^^Xll0aJt-•C0C0c0C^ai>OO^0lClCl0C0Tf^Tt*^O 


■O  CS  C)  I--  CO  00  CO  -rj^  O  t 


— t         (M  .-I 


't^iOOiC^-^t-'<9*COCOiDO'— iCOr 


010!MCOC^'*CNCO'>:rCS-^C^t^iCr-< 


cocDOi^-•lDcDC>CiC<JcDO■^■^t^r— coocolcoccc^(^^"*co^*c<»o•— 'cDcr■ot■-co^^coco^-t•-•ooco^'-•cocDCOlDOl"Ou^ 

r^OCCO'— "'—'—"  OiC^Oi-—  -— C^■^OCCjn<lOt--OlOr--^CCt--0■^^0^-.0'— ■^X'—'OCO'')CSiOcOcOOCrjt--00»OCDOCOO^ 

cO'-iO'^'^Oi'— 'cDoiOO'DioX'CicDi— o-— 'or;Tr-^cDaiOcC'^cD'^t~-c^-^o:c^ocoOicOTr<-tcor-^ioc^"-*u3C^ 

00  Tjf  C^' Tf  CD  cT  rr  ■-^' iO  VtT  C^r  O  lO  L-:"  Tt  CO  C^  CO 


^-i   r-.   T-t   iO  00  Oi  --H  O   r-H   O   CI  IC   >— I  CD   C^   rH   r-  -^   |>.  r-< 


r-i  1-.         lO 


OSOC^'— '05t-C<(TfiOiO00C0*OC000cDC0e0Q0iOr-,-'OCD^.  Or 


>  CC  't*  Ci-V  c 


^c  ■^'-'Ocoo'^t^'-'ooajo^'^aioo^ooscooo 


.,-icO'-'Ot-^-^CuO'<^i— •l:^cooCO;C^ii*'C^a>cDiOi^lOO»i"-cCl~--I--OOOCSOi"^OI^cooocOcDi-HasO-^oa 

■'COCSCO»-l'*COCO'M(NCO       "'(M'-iC-Ii-h'cO'^CO'-'  -^T-Hr-lC^ir-H  COCOMi-HC^'-H.-HCS.— tr-lT-HrHCOCO 


Oi":)OOOrocCi'-<»Ol--i. 


;^«LOo;cocooocr'CO'-Hiocoosr^cDcoaioiox»ooc3  0»DTf 


t^CDC^lOOOO'—'OO'-QOcOasOOtO^DC^IOOOOC''— 'COr^'^"-t'~(>DC/:C^^O'X)tO--^OCDTf'.-Ha:»OC^C005^ 


t-.OOaiCOOOCO'^t'-OCOOGCt^t--iCOCTiCO» 


5  CO  '-'  C^  ?0  "^  CI -^ 


't-CC<Nt^'*CD-*COOOO<NCOTt^iO'^t^OC 


■^COiCOOClCi^  —  CDiMO  —  00         lOrfCDC^CDC 

rr  CO  I-        CD  CO  C4  (N  c:  * 


*  -rf  CO         CO  C 


iiOCS)-— (fOTf^Or 


t'-co-rt^t^-r-^oco- 


<N  (M  O  '^  IM  Tt*  r-  CN  I 


ICDmiOO— "-^lOCDcOCir-HC-lO^OCDC 
,_-      ■''  ~O:^-»OCD00'M'-'r-"" 


;00'-iT-.r-icOCOCD"*000'— 'lOiOC^OT^-^C^CO 


1  i-O  CO  t-*  lO  ' 


CO-^.— ("Tj^'iOOiTf^CDOOC^lOr-CD 
OOCDr-HOCSCOCOt-CDiOCOOOCOCO 

coosi-'r-t^coTj^cooi'-'i-ir-icoco 


co(Mio»oi>-co-^       »outiiCkoori>. 

CO  CO  !>.         »0  (N  1-H 


H  CO  iC  1-1  t-  00  oc 


t^  C^        CS  (N 


— ^c^cocoooc-— <ociiOT--r>.-^cooccD'^cocmioo^coinTt'0:ooc>iu^ooiococ^r--ooo-^c^'OQ005coai'^ 
o■^^'00r-<^-c^c-J'— ii— Gocx:cDr-coocccsir'CDcoO'^CiOC4co:DCso-^t^^'Oor-.ci'-OiOTt<'— '-^osoio 
c-^^'-""<J'CiCDco•— iCicDxcocicoc'icooccc^r-oiC'ico-^'-'r-c^'-'C^corpiDr^O"^'— "oococo-^c^coi^ 

CO      cd'icco  tt'i-Ti-*'      cT-^  cD'-^      c^r>-H  coc^T-T  r-T  co 


CS  (N  CO  -H  03  Tj< 


OOOOOOOC^O-i^t^OO 


»0'-«05Wj00'^O'«**a-'— 'cor--'-Hc^iooccc^T!--rj-r-r-Ht^r--c:<y'>i--t^Ci-^c^cDoC'0'^r(NcDC^-^cO'-^M 

^''^^■-^TPOOCO— -C^ClC^CDCCoOC^COCOC^ClcDOlOt'OCSCOCMcOCOasCOOI^cDiOCit^iO'— ti— tQO-^CsOOO-— 'COCS'    ■     " 


i-ic;cit>-(MC-icDcoco»co-^r-cDoci^c:'-^-- >-^.— "roc--*r*GOc:cMoccOGrjCj. 


-C5r-C0C0OCi*0-— 'Tt-t-^»DCl'-<COGOC^C 


CO  o  oc  -^  t^  c^  t 


>-<--'  1-1  «?  C^  CO  r 


scDC^ioc^ir:)!— r-coicioiooc-JCi'-'COOicococ 


■C^cDCNI>-C^    OC^C-It-^-^CMC^ 


t^  CM  T-H  T*<  C^ 


■^CiC^t-t^CNOO't'OOiCTf* 


CDc0OC0C0OOu0OC^lt-."rPa-C^CDOi0Qr^C.'--«O'— 'CDOCDCICT-O-— <cDiOOOO"^"^CDt~-QOCO^COCO- 


CO  Ci  CO  O  Lt.  -*  O  OC  OO  CI  '— >  -rt*  OC  00  C^  »0  iC'  1--  -—  r-  CD  CM  CO  CO  00  t--  CO 
t'-cDCDC2Tt'C3CiQOr--QCjC;'rrr^r^f^f:rr-i(^tcc;r^r^**"rsi(— -^-;e.--::"t+' 


>— iOCOOO-^^-HGOXCO<NCOCOCOOCcDt- 


._-OC0iCI^O'OO'^"^0i*00i'O' 


>  Ol  CO  CO  CO  cc  d 


JOcocscococococi•-'COh-^-cDC^cscOI■-■<t^coocco^-■OlCoocDxc^r-Hlcc^■^oc^Oi"^^-c^c^c>^ooooT^oo^-cco 


WCOCDC^COiO'^CO'— COt^COT-'iCuOr- 


:COOOOcOCCt^CO'rt'i--CO'-'Ot^-- 
i-<  ^      '^J'  C^        CO  1-t    I-"  » 


:.  C^    Ci  Oi  GO  Tji  CO  w  iC  (M  O  CO  i-H  ' 


SQS2222'^Q2^'^*^'^<^'^ooooooooooooooooooocooooooooooooooo 


OOOOOOCjOOOOOC 


C^OOOOOOOOOOOOOIMO 


OOOOOOtOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


iiCO(M':DOOC:;OO»C»0OOc0OOCDOOi0OO(MO^-OCDOO(MOOC0 


OI>JpeOOOCO.--0»Ct^OOOCNOC^OOCOCOC'»C":>OOiCGiC'COOOOCOOC<100000CiOI^OCDOaOOO<NOI 


tCSCOi-«'-"CSOt'"^ 


ji-'(Mioc^cDor^^'-i  —  oi: 


I--rfr-CNr-Hl>.OOCO(NOiO'-'iO'-t'-'^C 


CO  --^ 


rHC^fO•^lOCD^^OOCiO'— 'C^C0•*t<»OCD^^Q0ClO'— lC^Tt^■^lCCDr^000JO•-«C'^C0■^^OCD^*00CiO1-^ 
COCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCO'^'^'^Tr'^'^'^'^Tf'^iCiCu^iQiOiO'OOiO'OCDCDCCcDCDcOCOCDcOC —     ■     ■     ■     "■     "    ■"    "    ■"    *-    ** 


-t^t-t^t-r^t~*r^t~-oo 


3038 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 


S  <B„  O   g   O   "=   (Di«2        ^ 


a^  "  n  «  t^ 
fc-S  8  "  =" 


CO00>£5CO 

C<1 

« 

;o 

w^C^oo 

CD 

Oi  ^  o 

r^  ^  lO  o 

to 

«3 

OlOlt^rt 

N 

N  -;  ira 

I^IOCOCDCS-— 'OOCClNOC^OO^'^OCOOlO'-'GCC^'-f'^O^C^'-H 
.-H  ^  rH  t^  r>.  I^  CO  »-«  1-t  CS  to  <N  1-t  CO  CC  t^  C^  t^  t^  r-.        IM  i-i  (M  O  (O -<*<  CO 


^82 


*J^  CD 


05  a:)  c  ^  .15  +j  +^  j-^  t^        ^ 


CO  iC  CO  05  CO  » 


3COCOt^OOCOr-<I>-COmO'^'— it-^-^COOSiOC^CO 


1— •■^■^■^T— (ioicr>-0'— 'r^.r-toc^^Tt'coGOcor'-'^coioi^Tfcocoo 
locot^-^r^or^^oiococoofMCiTfcoosiocoot^c^fM'OOi'-.t-. 

CO  GO  ^  o  oT  rC  ^  rH  ■^jT  ^ -tjT  ^  uf  iC  Oi' c^*  o^  cro"  tC  co"  CO  00  lo  o  o 

«^T-i         CO '^         r-t         Ci  C^  1-H  .-H  .-1  C^  uO  ^         -^  C^  '^  CO  t-,  (M  ,-1 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO'-'OOOOOOOO 

ooooooooooooooooooo^oooooooo 

i0OOOOO(N»^OO»0OOOQ0iCt^OOC0OOOOOOOO 

'-H*ooooo^-^•--^"oolO'-^olOco*■^*t^oo^oooo^^ 


CO  O  Tf  CX)  t^  ' 


r-(  CO  O  -^  O  t^  ^ 


0»-HC)0'^iOO»OCN»/^iC 


^t^OOt^O^OiC^CC^ 


3COCfJC001CDO-^<-4^0C0001>-tCC^O 


lOiOCOrj^cDOO^CCtNOOtNCOiOOi'ttiorOt^CC^^'-HGOtSlt-a- 

cGO^r|:i3JflO.-^C:op"^'ooi^-^QCTt^r-^cc*lOcOGOO^•^coc^ 


C^COCS<N(Ni-'CO.-icOi-tC^.-HT 


'TT'^-^CN'-lTT^.-.r-H.-lC^rHCOCqC^ 


a?  2  S  ^  -^  -^  -^  'r^  ■ 


»- J-  ?  S  ^  S;^  cioo 


o  — '  •— 


b-COt^r*iO«OCO.-HTf<i— "C001»jOCOCOIOCOCO'— 'l^-— 'COCOOlOiX'— ICD 

0  00 

OM 


:io<N^^Tj-coooOii 


;cDoo-^":)C^OicOi-'cocct^^'-iooooi-Hr-ic^Tj't^-oco 


fee 


gSg 


g  §  g  C1.02 


'•o§" 


(NOO'-(COCiOOCOO'-<COt^COCMTt"aDtOCOC^C^b-COO<MiOCOOiOO 

oo^«Tj-cocoooO'-HicoicooaiT-((N-^c^ooosasooco'<tt~-CT'CON 
o6o^^'*cocdcDc^iocD■c<iT^^'c^os'^^^I^'^cD^odoicq»oo6odcc* 

COiOCqcOCO.-l-<:JlC^|>.i-(MC^»eqC^OO'^OOCO»MOS'-..-.i-lCOCq-^COCO 


CCCO.-iC<ia>CO»0»OOiOOOCOTf(NCOI:^t**T}-0-^iOCOO(Nt^OOOOOC 
{»t0<NcD'^C<IOC^0i'-^0>-^C0i0C^-^c0-^C<»t^C0Tj<t^CSC0C00C'rt* 

o6oi^^^i-**^cscd^^coa:t^-rt-'cc0'rpoccd^dtcco'od■^*oo<--iai^^ 
cO'-'Wocor^tNTfi-^cso'^c^'^c^"*'— 'C^osr-f— tr-ic^ioosci-^-<*^ 


i-t       cs       ^ 


.-•(NC^  ,-( 


COOOt^COCOCOOOOO^rf't^vC'^CO^tCOOTP^COCOtMiOOOt^'-'TfM 

i:--iooooiiot^coO'*^(Nco»cc:i-^^^c^c^cocoTrcot^as05u;oo 


,-iTj"t--OCCiOCOOCC 


JGOOiiC.-Ht-tcO'— "OOCOt^t— ^>— «CO:OiO-" 


•-•C^OOOiC^COCC'^iO- 
»-'  CO        iC  CO  -~  ' 


:C0OI^'-tC^00Oi0c0O'*»0Oc0'< 


H  cs        1-1  rt  (N  t-       ,-H  - 


f-"  CO  CO  CO  1-H  1-t 


« 

Oi 

H 

>«l 

m 

P 

'? 

O 

« 

i5 

w 

l~t 

►J 

C3i 

H 

>1 

W 

V. 

H 

,p 

OQ 

en 

Q 

^ 

5^ 

•S 

■< 

% 

W 

o 

U 

Fc; 

o  o  o  t;  ;z; 


^^^ 


aS 


i-HCOOOr-CDOOcOOCOOit^C^COCOt^OOO-^QOCDOOOSt^cDt^Tj^iOO 
OOcCC^OCCCOiOcOcOOiCO'^OOOOlOOOO'— it-r— COrriOt^C^OOTP 

oo:cio^-^t^c^'oilOC^'r4ocooo6ooco'csooiood'^occ^coooQ 


CO  CO  .-'  CO  c^ 


<  iCi  I>- tT  CO  .-I -^  i-H        i-H  (N  CS  CO  CO  C 


C0'-<00^Tpt^[XOC0^t--^t^G0^CSC0C00iC001(Nt^<N05OO00 

i^r^oiooOT^^i— 'iCcD-— (oooo-^GOcoTfa)cnt^.-HTfooiocooociio 

0500"^"^^OC^)iCO<Ct-*»OCCOOOCOC^-rJ'03i— iCOCDt-CD-^OCOi>- 
'^'"t^C^*"ic"c^*       CO        00  CO       CO -^CD  O  tCo  oT       O  Tt'"       r-Tcc'c'c"-  t^»c 


r^  r-H  i-H  CO  (N 


C0h-00O"^00C0Tt*C0r'-000i'<S*'-i00OiiO(NC0C0aiC^C0OiOCMOTf 

coi— ■cocooc^oiocooit^cD— '^cot-oc^eor-co-— '■— 't-00-^coco 

CqcOiOcO-^1— 't--C*^i— ■OCOiOi— (COCCOOiOrfrPOOOC^'— 'CS«— "OCOOO 

TtJ"odr-r-4"o      c4~»cc4" 

09-t^        C^  >— '  CO 


J  CO  -^  CO  CO  OS  o 


:  (N      T-H  X  00 1^  o  '^ 


CO"<**O^HOOiOcOCO"^asC-3COI~-COCO— '^-HCOOOO-^COOSXCDrf 

1— "4Ccot^oO'-HC^ooicocC'-Hr-Oi"Tt*io-^t^cooGOcot~-r^ir:>io»oc^i 

r-Tt*iCt--OrpTtiCOOOiOCOO(NcOC^'<*'r^OiOCO(N'>**CCCO(Na)OOi 


(Nl-H  l-H   .-H   l-lt^ 


iOC^-H   — . 


^8S 


(Mai»O'^OC0C000t^»O'*cD.-iw(Mb-TPI:^OC*^i0Tt«C^OC0--'C;O 
»O(N00ai'*C^00'— iCXW'^-^'^-^'C^'^CD'-HfN'^iOOO^COCOaiTT^'^J* 
•"HiCOC^i— ''-H00COCO1— 'O*^C0C0O-^00C000lCOC0C00000CC05<N 


cco:o-^iOlr^Osu:iCOOOCOCi- 


,rfi*-<,— i0500l>-C^r^"00'CCC 


t^oococNcot-ioc<i»ocot^c^cO'*r^t^t^'Mr^co^c<iTPooio».  - 

'-HOOOiooOit^^TP^cooscocoTfO'-^coocooocct^coroTr'-f 


>ocoot^O'-i03'^cooir^<NcoaiOioc 


I  Ci  O  •—<  Tf  Ci  Oi 


'-'r-Oi0'^(N'-"'^00OCC0ii0(MCDC0»O00C0i--'»00;C0C0G0— «.— iiO 


■^CO'rt«TpCO-<*^CS(N'-Ht^<Mt^'-»'^0'-i<McO(; 


J  CO  CO  t-  O  IC  I 


O<ooi 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOtTOCOOOOOOOOO 
OOOOOOOOOCDOOOOOOO'^O-rhOOOOOOOQ 

CDOOOOO— «»oooioooooooc^oa5oooooooo 


^OTfOOt^rH        i-iC0"O        '^Ot-"^i-ti-tO'-iCSO'«f» 


)  o  »0  lO  iC  lO 


«s 


O^  CS  CO  .^  »0  CO  t>i  00  0>  Q  ^'  C^'  «  Tji  uo  CO  t>!  00  Oi  O  '-''  Csf  ff^'  .*'  »0  cc'  t^^  00 
000000000000000000050»050i050»0505050iOOOOOOOOO 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3039 


-^  ^  CO  o 


1-H   CO   r-l         1   <0         1   T— 


-  ^  o  c^^  o 


H  CO  rl  Oi  Tp 


.-I  00  Ol  <N  CS  t^  (M 

CM  CN  CD  lO  Tj5  »-3  ci 
CM  CM  ^  1-*  — I  t^  O 


CMOOCMC^OiCCOOO 

COCOCOOOOt-Hi-Hi-i 


)  CD  CM  Tf  r^  »o 


rl*wcct*as'OlO^-^^t^«ro■--'*'^0'-'Ot^'-*oocO'^w^*oo3'coooox^*eo^-t^ocoCMcDCMO^^^ 


C0C0r^-<*<C:iTjlCC*O.-H'<:I'T-H0iCM'-Hr^<:DO'-HCCOC0'-HTf^O0SCq'<tCM«0C*i00Tj<0000Tt<'<*<'-H>H^ 


5SS 


-HasOCMcOCOCOffj-— ■OCMl^OO^DO'— ICIOOO'^CMO        lOOl-^O        OiCO^COOSt--OiO<33QOOOO;OcOiOU5 


OiOOOoOOOCMi-HC-I.— «T-(CMCMaitO'^CM'-H'-Ht^»rjC040rH 


lOOCMCOi-t    1    i-iCMCMU3r-i,-HC*r-l 


CO  ^ 


C^Or^O^OC'^OlQCOCCin.—  l>..--'OOCCOro»OCOO'— ■CMOiCMt-^'^CCCMOOCMCO'30  0-^'— 'CS'OC'JOOTt'Ot* 

Ot•^'^as>o--Hto^o•-HX/^ocMcoOlOO^OQCC^J':t^cMCMa5COTJ^r^co^oc^cDcoxi^^o:^^coc:^^ccoOoo 

C^'^CMC-^-^-^CMiOCMCJiOiOCl-^co-^^OOiOOCOCM        t--00-^'— I        C^lX'-«t-H0i000iO-^TPOOCM"rrM<O 

o'r-rto'oo  cc  co~co  ^cc"'-h"cm'o"oo''-h~co  o'^^d'oTu^!-^  ooo  CO  "0      CO  CO -^'oo  Tt**t-^CM  CO  r-Tof  o  cm'i--"co  CO  •-? 


^^Jl  r-l   1-1  CM  1—1 


CO  CM  I— «  iC  CI  f-H 


r-H   COCMrH 


OOOOO^COOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOlOOOOOOOOOOOOOiCOOOO 
OOOOOCOC^OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCMOOOOOOOOOOOOC^IOOOO 
O'OOOOOOOOwC^^iCwCOOOOOu^OOOOiOOOOClO^OOOO^OOOOoOOO'^COOOCO 

r  O  O  lO -—'■-' cm"  cT  i-h' irf"  c' lO  O  Ci  o"  lO  O  li^  rj^  o  c4"  o 


CD  CM  r-l  TT4 


r-H^OCM<OC0i-«r-.C0i— i01CMO'<*^'^CCC0C-l         lOC^JCO        ^CCM        'rfOCMCO'OCMrHiOtO-^Ir^CMIX 


CM  o-H  o  or 


coo— "C-liOt^CCO^COi— lOsOOOOCOh-CJl-^COi-^C 


■^OO-^C^lOCMOi'-H'^-^OSCfsOCMcDcOOOCOO 


6d05COOCM-^i--^CO-^'J^^'OQ6'— <^0"^f^lOOOCMC7iC5^-'OOCOCOO>:J*^^*0'-<^I^ 
O  CO  C»  *0  OJ  O^*  C^'  *-0  •^*  — I  ^*  to  iC  ^'  C^  CO  ^*  QC  00  ^^  iC  CM  ^  o 


H  — t  r-t  CM  *0  r-t  Oi  C 


CMCMCMCM    r-i--Hf-HTPCMCM^i-i    .-iCMCOCMTt<»Or-«i-«CM.-iCMCJCOCMr-.,-i.-iCMCM— '   — 


■^^^cor-^^-CMT-lCOcolOcc^*T^^CMOOr^lOT^^-cocoo■-HC•^cDlO»ocMOcO'^ococMCMCM^*;^Oi^oco^l^•o:ooo 
cDOioooococo^^ol^cMco*ooo^-cnGCcocoocoocioe<lOl>•oolasooI:^ccT-HTJ^^-.t^^-QO■*oocx:^OTJ'cocMOt^ 

cdoiacooic4coocMoiI^cD'-Ht>^o^'Ioiciuo^^odcMoo^-^cdlOojQdcd^ 

T-(Cr-i-*cDiQCO<-iCOCMCMCM        i-l.-iCMCMt^OCMCMiH-^iOOOSi-HCM-HeOcOCM'*iOiOi-lTtH!-Hi-(Tt<COCMCO-*OOCMCMi-Hi-iW 


0CCC'-^■^^^GOCOCI;CM'— I-— <C7i':CiOaJCOC^CDU^r--COCOOCMO;Oi'n*Tt<CMi-H,— (.— iOOSO^-COTt^t--^t^OO;'— iQOCMCOCOi^ 
^OOOiX'r--iO'»**tOO'— '0iCMI-*G0»O0COOOC0CM01CDiOt^»C^CMTPr^O0it^OCM05O'^'*^— <— *i— «02^ 


r-^oiot^coo-— 'oo-^'Xii^  to<©"-ooiC^o» 


^CM'-hCMOIO'— 'OC-1CM 


CM  CM  CO  CM  Ol 


CMOC:iCM''^CDCMCMOOt^OOOOO>CMCMGOOOa>'«*'CO<N»Oi-H'<*«'^b-iOr^cDOO 
CMCMt—iOCOCM— iCMr-iCMC<lTj«C0I:^COCMi-»COi-(C0CO";ClCMi-lCMWCMi-)        r-l 


cor--— 'GOiO'^ocMr-ooc:! 


CMC^lCTlC0C0OOCMC0CM00'*O'*0i';0C0-^>0OOwO0i'*C7>OI~^'<**00^G0r^CMCMiO 


OiooocD.-(— icociijDoaiCi»ocD»oiocoocoi-H-^CMr--oo-^io>occC5ior--oc:>ooa:;c^i 


.— <rHt--COCO>-101COO& 


i-H-— lOQOCOOOOCOOGO'— 'COCM'-HOOOajCS'— iCOCMC^^— 'OaiG0CMC^)<:0'' 


Oi'^^COOOS^tir^t^— ^cot^oooocc 


CMCOCMCOt^'^CMr-iCCOCO        — iC*JOc0Cn>-HC0C0CM»0'XiQCO'-tC0CMTt«OC001O:0^OCMCM»CG0CMC0-^^X'C0-— • 


ool^^■^c:•-*cooalo»oocooocooc;■— <xict^cocM05coaiO'^rj*-^-rt't^cot--a5icxoiO'^cMicoiOJiot--»co 
oci>cocMX):ccoc^Tt«Ti^iocMc:oi'— ^ooocDO^*occaiGCCMTf^co^^coo5"^Tt*lC^-Ci— ^O^o^-■^f'lCrt^t^■— iT^ 

COC50CCOt^CM:DO'n'CMcC-*I---COO-^C100COCOt^COr--'— lOJ— 'COCMOCMCOCDOsCMr--'— iCM^r-t^COCOOi-^t^OrJ«eOr^ 
CC  G<rcc"l^Co"t-^o':o"t-^cri;C~CO  CO  CC  CM'^T-T^'r^'r^^  T^iO'-^o6^cSc^irS<:0'-^CCOiCCO^t^CCt^cS^'^-^'-^0 


CM    1-1    — I  CM 


— «CO'-iCMCOCMCMT-.cOCMCM<-Hi-HCMf 


rH  ^     CM  ^  ^CD  r-l 


,-1  lO  CO  CM  CM 


CO»OOC«OCOCMTj*cOiOI^CCOOGOr^Oi05CDOcOOCMOCCl-»-<*'COCOOC9CDGO^"*'<**OiOSr--00^00<:CCM»COQOasO& 
CMr^OCOOJU^'-<CMCO>-'<— '0iOOC0OS^^U3rHrt'C0Q0OC0CM'~^G0CMC01— iOOOiCOCX)COt^iOCiCDOiOCO"^t--OOC»Oi'^ 

5;cOcD— fcCOscOh^iOco^^CCCC^h^oiodocOt^b^O^'CMiq 


CS  ,-H  rl  —(  r-l  Tf  .-H  to  C<I 


^'-HCMCM'— I'-H  f-tCMCOCOTj* 


4CCi-lCMCMCMrHi-li-lCMCMN 


SGOOOOIC^J-^COOOOO'— 'CMOiOlcCCOOlCTl'^OCO'—'h-.OlCO'OCi^GOOOGOCOOOOiCO'OCMOiCOaS'— '^--COO^O 

-cocoi^ocor^-— <cccMcoiococ>tiTr»io<oc^'-icO'MoococoioOr'-0"rPoo»oior--ooO'— 'CM-— ir^cocD050QOi-*r-- 

J(^^t^OiCMOQO'--CMCMO~-Oi— «010aS'^GCTr*-^CjCOiO"^CMO"^CDC»rHCO'— «GO^^C»CMt^t00505■-t'OCOCMCM■^ 


O  F-.  CI  r-l  — I  X  ' 


'-'CO'^CMCMt-^iOiCCMiCiOCOCMi— (lOCO'^CDO 


■'co-'*<cofO'--»fooor^t^"0 


C^ICCCDCOcDOOr^-^ 
t^^OCMI^iO-^O 

^ococ^xiioa^cD 

•"^J^r-r cT        O  CD" 


^D-— iiOh^i— iCDCOCMOOOir-OCOCOiOOO'— 10000 


:ci'-'OCcDoco»ocoO'-'i: 


3  Cl  -^  Oi  iO  CO  CO 


i-— •GC'-'CDOiCDOt^OCOOOcDTr'CDCMOicDO 


1— ICO'— lOi         OCOtJH.— icO-^rHi— <         COCMCOIOO 


^.^^.^^^Tt^CMOh-^COCO 

'rfoOuOClOcDO-^CJCO^'^^ 
OO^Tt^OCO^Or-CMcOCT.iO 

TjT  CM  ■'J^  05 -^  CM  CO  f-H  CM  lO  CO  lO '^ 


Oi'^COCO-^'^1— <CDCDC0CDO0C»O'-HrfCl»0t^C0r-CDCDC0^-i^C0»— 4f>-00^-O00'-H0SC00i'O»O-HO0i0i00iO'— 'COOBI"^ 
CDI-^Tt<CD-HOC»Gr— ^CDCOC^)rOCOr--C'lCOC5ascC^OCMOOQCOO''^i— tOCMCO^HOO— icD-— l*00'OCM^-GCCl«^•^^ 
v^tCCM"^iC'*CDC0^HCCTt<CMCM»Ct^C0r^C035I--.t^r--TrCMiOaiOi«!il^»r5airy^.--icnc!!5r^rrir/ii^ 


COO'*^-— tOCMCO'-HOO'— ICD-— i*00'OCMr^GCCl«^'^Tf*OOI-0 
Oa>05«Dt^»OOlOO'-<COOt^COX»Jr5CO-^»— icDOOCDCOCMWcO 

i-Tcoco^^  i-X 


;iOcD'-H'— "QOOCMOTfcO 


co-^ccc<»os'-HC'icMcocMio«3r^— »CMC^ia:»o-^r^O'— •QOOoooocooicooscMiO'— lOos^r^i  _  ___        _ 

t"-^0  0■^•OU^OSCM^»CDI^^-C01— •lOOOSC^lOClJ'— i-rr-HCOCDCMcOCftOOOOO'^'^OrHTf'h-'CMCMiOC^ 
CMT}*,-HCMCMOOC0'-*O0sC0ai00OO0C0iCMO»000— ^OcOI^C^rt^O^-•CM^^— •0i0iOO-rt*0i'^00CC0005C000I>-cCCa 

00  o'^^'oo'c^oTo  t^oToo  t^co  CO  o'cd'o  ,  -    - 


.—  »-i  lO  1-1  CM  CO 


rococococDt^;ocoo-^CM— icocoooscDCMh-'-'cooocMcoi^eocOTj'-^eo 

coco  ^  iO  CM  CM  ^  ^  CO  ^  — *CM  CM         cO --i  ^  00  i-H  .-h  r-i        CM  CD  t^  CO  CM  Ol 


»0"^O0iCMCM--iO'^C0'— ■OiO-^LQCOOOCCDr>-CDOCMCOiOTt<CO--i-*'^OCOOOOCOO'-^'— iCDCOOOiOCM— «CO 


J  O  Tt-  ^  CM  O 


a"-cooooocj:oocoh-ioocoooocjcoi^c^t--iCTr^oc?socD»oO'rf»oo5'^ajor— cM'^ocMOOi 


CMCMiCOiCOOCMCDT— (QOt^COTT'OlCOCOiOCDOOCO 


^OsCMCOCOt^t— COOt'-OiOCDOCDTricDCDCM^CMOO'-'OiOOOacO 


CM'OCMTj*CMC0CMC0'-'C0C0'J0CD-rp»O>CtO»Ob-CDt^CMtOai'— it^»OTt«uOCMkOCM         COO"^.— lOCOCMCOOr-— 'CMOCMcDC* 

CO  I— (  1— «  T-lCMi— '•—••— If-HCMi-Hi-l  .—Ci-HtP  ,— (TfCO-— Ii— I  r-( 


OOOOOiCOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOiOOOOO 


JOOOCOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


OQOOOor^oooc 


O'CijOOOiOOOOOOcOiOOOOOOOOLQiOOOO— 'OCMOCMOiOOOO 


-OOOQXOOOiOOOOO 
wOOOOiOOOCMOOOO 
■^OOOCMOiOOrt^COOOO 


OlO-^C'ICO-^iOCOI-^OOOSO'-'C^CO-^iCCDt-^OQOsC'-* 


'^^ZlZ^ZlZlZl'~''~'~^'~'^^'^''^^''^^^'^^'-^'^'^'^'^^'^^'^'^^ 


iccot^ooo>o-HCMco'^iocor--QoasOi— ic-icoTt*totci>. 


;  to  lO  lO  to  »0 


3040 


MUNITIOl^S    INDUSTRY 


°  C  fl  ^i^  o 
0^  •"*  o  O  rt  "^  ' 


iiO^+OOCO-^OOOO 


CC  CS  00  <-« 


r-H  <M         .   ^   ^   rt   to 


»0  ■^C4  l^C^         »0-- 


1— ccoiOcO'^Tf'^ccc^c^c^t^oor-CNOscoc^cO'Cc^ccc^'-'Oiroocor-i 


;  ^  OC  r-.  CI  ^ 


<t^iOiCcCiO-*(NCOC^Or 


OCCC'i— 'C^JOl'rrCO'— 'C000-«t<OC0iOTtiO»Ct'.'— '(MTt*'— 'COlMi-HiOCDCDr-iiOC^ 

o:j'-H(Xc»r-ccoiQ<:.'i™c^i>''-Hco'*oc>— 'cocsiGoast^"^cot^ooO'-'C^_.c^c^ 


€e^cs  t^       -— I 


H<X;C0  1-^OOCS'"   COrJ^TTC^'— '.— ifO-^OCSi-liOiOOOQOQO^-t-CD 


CCOO  l>--^  i-H 


oooooooooooocoooooooooooooooooo 


OC:OOOOOOC:OOOOOOOOC 

ocio-— iOO^'C:g:o»cooooooooi 


JOOOOOOOOOO 
300000«i0000 


OOOCDOOOir^OO'rf'OOOOOOCOOOOiOOOOOOC^C^li-HiOO 

(MuoGO      coo      (Ni— "■^o;c^co*d— I      i-»Tr^»cc^-^.-«iOTrco>— lOO      coo 


f^ 


>  ^  03'"' 


c:■^^-^'-■cO"^c^eccxc^^-^oi^^Mt^oi^^o6ocGOcccldr^^^c^•ocDt^^ 


OOt^'OCCCOMOOl^C^CSCO'^C^I-rft^tC'^C^t^cOCDCOOOiOOC^OXNOOS^H 


OCt^t^lNiOOCOt 


3O(>icDf-icoio^00:D(MOC00i»CCD^OI^00G0Oa> 


;  0  cs 


o-^r-*oooooo»cooc^ooeDor^t^OcoaDa3^coOcoQOio-^ooooo>oioo 


CO  O  CO  O  ^  ^ 


HCDCO^iC-^COCOOODDt-tCOOir-COC^-^CO-^^OOO 


'^  c 


8.n  § 


Ot^(Mt-aicca'-^'--QOOOC^^Tt*0-^0>^01i-(00»0*OC40aoOOOOiOOnN 

c-<-HC-)CJ.-.rt->i<^c^c-j«5iM(N.-iiMeocMC^mc<'0-*cO'*N>cra«-*co(N 


a>  n  ^;  cB  -e  ■- 


f^   O   "^  ^ 


o  "^  3^  >^ 

'5  ^ 


CCOOOC^oi'-'OTl'i-HOOCiC^-^TfiOGOCOCCOJu^trJ'-HC^COC^COOO 


(^^c^^cccCl~1(^^^--.-'co(^^t^l^:!l:^!^^c^^l 


i  CM  t^  .-H  I-*  »0  Oi  ' 


|--.CMi000i0CCh--'-HC>)O-^OTt-Q0'— 'OiC10;COOO»OCOiOt^03CMCMa3GOOt^ 

Oi^^'^Oociccoscccr-CMt^oi'-'ccfCOO-rriwior^cMooicoosrc'^t^asoo 

•^'cDCMGdGPDOfi;OCOCM050:c'o«-H40Tl^'^oi"5DCOiO^ 


3(M  ^  CM 


« 

o^ 

H 

y^ 

r/i 

t3 

s* 

Q 

w 

:^ 

h-i 

>-l 

>A 

o^ 

w 

>-t 

w 

i~ 

H 

,p 

cw 

0 

C5s 

5^ 

,S 

<1 

s 

:z: 

Ci 

o 

'U 

« 

o  o  o  g-. 


c»"^Cic^c::'^'r^Ci^*oou:50oocMcft«2<ccowoo<^o<^5ClOcoa5cocOr-lccT^^ 

i-»  CM  i-H  1-H  i-H  CO       r-lTt^i-tr-l    r-i  i-*    t-H  CM  i-H  Tf  CO  CM  CO  CM  CO  CO --I  r-l  CM  i-l 


e"" 


r-h-.—'OcooicMCMorcooiCMOooTfioc 

'-<iOCOX>00-^'ft'00'^'-HO<00'— 'CMC 
fOGOI>GOCOr-OC^l»-'CM'-i^CCO"OC 

CO  CO '-hoTi-h  CO  CM  CM --r-<ir,-roO 


)w:)CDt--OOCOTf*a5CMCMOt^r-HiO.-l 
ICMiO-rJ^CMt^COCMcO^CO^iOOlCO 
jCMiOOTCOQOCMt-COr-r-Ot-^^J'iO 

i-Tcm"     00  ■^'-h  lo  ?o  id"  i^-^     oooT 


t^  >0  lO  O  O  00 

lO  .-H  •»**  00  CM  en 
CI  "^  CO  v-H  o;  ^ 


lCCMi-<OOCOCMiOOOCMCMi-'OtOr^COO'rJ*"<*«r^Ol'-HCO 
uOOOCMt^-rPOCOCDCM-^COCOOliOi— "CMTTClOiOCOO 
CDOOt'-OCO^CO         CDT-iiO'':*^'— liOOiCO'-HCDCOtOOCO 

^"oO        CO         lO  CM         -^CO  ;3^  CO  "O  lO'co'CM*"'^   t^CO 


.JMOiOCOrfCOOOOOt^CDCMOOCDOCM-^OO 

.       „^         ,,.„-.       . ■lTfOOCM^O»00>-'^05^-t^'-''^CDO<J^-*'OCM 

COCCCOiC--r^Tj'CMi-'OCM'<*CMt^OCMCMCD'*'Tr'— 'CDCO00C0iO^C0CM-^O> 


r^C50"^t^Oi'^CMtcoor-' 

.— O  ^  "  -— I  GO     ■         ■ 


^  CO         CO 


Tj'.-icDOO^         1— . --4         ^  CM 


M'OiCDOOOOCMCJsC^OOCOCCCMO<OiO'*t<CMTj'Tt<iOCOC003CD'-<-^CMOOi»000 
CTiOQCC^'^t^<J='^'—  "^J^t^iOQO'— 'i--»C0r-C4C0.-HC0O-^ai'-ir-CM'^C0»O 
CMiC  .-lOi'-tOkCOt— iTtioOO»OcO-^^-COCOCM-^Tti.-Hi-HCMCD?DO^tOTj<CO 

J  c^  TjT -^jT  o  oi^  t~-^  "^' •"-T  00  »o"  iC -TjT  lo"  to  Tj^  "-T  oT 


lOOOlOO'^O'^CO'-'CtOO' 


■w-fo  -y?      lo  .-.  T 


rH  05        (M  --<  to 


^  — t  Tj*  <r.  ^  CM  rH  CM  CM         C05D 

i-l         i-H  CM 


.— <.— (CJS'— iCMO<OOOCOOO':DCO'rfuti^OO"^C^OCO'<^050r^»Cr^COOCM05 
OOior-COOCOOOCMOiOiOCMO-'J'OI^OcO'— tt^COCOt— 031OCDO00TP 

t--ot--t~-o;ocooct--'-HOt^oOit^t'-oioosoooo«-«i-«t--0'-«'-<o»o<o 
r o  CO  ■^^ o  CO  ■^' o* o  t-^  CO  CM* io  lo  o  o  CO  cm' 

--*  ■-CMcoOiCTiOOaiCMOCOrHOiO 


?  CO  lO  ■-'  h- O  O  i 


,-.         ,-1  CM 


oooooocc^coooooooooosoooooooooooo 

OOOOOOOOO'OOOOOOOOOCMioOOOOOOOOOOO 
OOiOi— iOOOccOO-^OOOOOOOt~^i0OOOOOOC0*0OOO 

CMiCt-         OlCOi-HCMi-"^.— iCMC0»O'-t  T-HTf<         CM^O.-i^CTfCO'— "XJUS         1"*0 

«&.-Hr-t        CM  r-<  CM  i-H         rH  »-H  CM 


W-a 


oo 


00  CI  O  -H  CM 


'*uiCCt*Q00SO'-HCMC0^»O':Dr>-0001O'-HCMC0^i0^t^C 


iO-OCCCDCOCD5OcC«CCOCOCDt^t^t^t^t^t^t^r^t^t*0000000000000000 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 


3041 


wo 


O  0>  ^-  'X>  o 

c5  ^  i-H  cc  •-< 


t^  CO  t^  oi  CC*  .-H  T^'  O*  CO  05  O  M  o  ■^" 
r}«  Oi  .-(  CO  !>■  <N  O --t         "-t  r-.CS 


COCOOICO^--— ICOC^ICOCOC^-^GO-— t 
CSt--CD'— •t-^OOO^OOO'OiO'— 'C4»0 

CC -^  Ol"  CO"^  Oi"  ^  (N  O"  t^ -^  CS  i-T  CN -rj^" 
CDi-H         COt^        lOW  ^    ^~* 


oooooooooooooo 
ooooooooooooo^ 

OrCCCOCSOOOOOCDOOC^ 


OTrTl<O'-HOOOOOt--O»00i 
in^rf        CS  coo  ^  O  O  iC  (N  lO  C^  lO 


OS*Oh»C^t^t-^CDt^C^OiQOOTPOl 

"^JiCO^OC^i— l-^COOi"— 'COOO^CO'^ 

t-^  oi  f-H  GO  t^  ci  t^  oi  "-H  r^  co"  co'  o  t>^ 


(NcOOOi'OOiOiO'— icO(MOi— <C^ 
^DCOOSiOGOOi— «CD'^»OCDCOO>'-H 

CO  t^  00*  CO  c4  CO  M*  Tl^  TtH  Tji  O  -^  GO  CD 
C^OOOiNCOOtJ'tPi-I'-hC^i-ii-Ii-I 


r^coi— iiocooco-^'-Hcot^-^oco 


00  O  CO  t^ 


C^.-i  r-H         0»i-^ 


'^OOCOt^OOOOCOOCO 
CO  O  O  t^  ^*  (M'  1 


OS*0(NOOIOOCC0050>100COOCO 

i-iiocsc^Gor-Oir^»OTt<'— ICO"— 'GO 

C0C0CSC00ic0CDOCD»dc^*O*OcD 
C10iCS!NCO»OTr»Oi-Hi-i(Ni-t(M»-i 


IM"^I--t^iOQOiOO"^'^C^lCOCO'— ( 
»— tcOfM'— '>— i»Oi— 'to-— icOC5"^(N^ 
OOt— OC0i0C0-^C0G0C^c0C0r'-»0 

r-T OS  o  »o  os"  CO  "^  ■^  00 1-^  lO  t-^  ■^  o 


OS»OOOC5(MCOClt^OiOJOCl01 
r-«;DOO*Ot--ClOr^OiCO'^OiCO 

cDcdcD'co'r-^odtoc^csiocdt^"^-^* 


c^ooosoco-— icioocooor-'— <03 

GOCO-^COOC^GOCO'— 'COOOOOCO 
C4"  C^"  (N  ^        CO  T^ 


OO      •  CO  t^      \  ^  T-t 
Oi  t-     '  C^  CO     <        --i 

QO"^"     '  CO  (N      t 


COCOOOICO-^-— •OOSCOCOCO'-HOi 
lOCOTt^COOiCSOOiOCOCOCOCOOCO 
t^iOcDCOt^'^C^OOOOTPCOTPCO-^ 


Tt^Tft'-CD'O-^COOlC'lt^OOt^O 

OiCOCDiOi— «0005'30COC^OCOC^a> 
0»OCDCDC^t^cOt--Ot^'— 'CSOOl 

■^"  c^  o"  u5"  c^  00  Tf  o' CO  t^  CD  t^  lo  as" 

f-l -^  1-t         t-»  lO         ID  CO 


h-C^^t-O'-'OC^CO^HCD'— tt--(M 
•»*HcOTpb-iO(MOTfCJiOO'-«CO'— (-^ 
iOlMcOCOCDCOOt^OC^O'—it^'D 

r^  CO  CD  Tt^  co"  »o*"  o  r^  cjT  od"  >— *'  ■^'"  lO  r^ 


SCNGOCO'^CDCD'' 


CO  ":!      Tj*  iM 


3  Ol  "<^  ^  Tf  CS 


ooooooooooocoo 
oooooooooooooo 

Ou^COOCSOOOOOCDOOtM 


OO'^O—  OOOOOt^O»DOi 
iD-^        C^COO'— tOOiOC^^DCSiD 


.  ■((NcO'^iOCOI^GOOiO^CS 

OODiCiOSOSCiDlOSOSCiOOOO 


JOiOQOOoOcDOOOcOOiDrJ*- 

^  w-  w- .  — ^  ^-  o  CO  CN  GO  CO  •— '  o  r^  o>  f^'  f^  ■^  =f^  • 
ot^csoc^ocooc^coc^ooco:-'! 
—  O'-'-hOOO       "^  ■ ■ 

^^  ^j  lO  tD  lO  ID  lO  ID 

cst-ti— ■oocococo^-'^r-cooDO' 

.— .  Tp  CO  C^  CS  CO  (M  (N  ^  CO  Tt^  CM  CO  ( 


*  CO  h-  CI  CO  Oi 

■  — ■'■'-■  'O  O  CO 
JOOi 
)  CO  c^ 

^  ^^  «„   „^  _J  4D  40 

- 1^  t-  I-^  t^  t^  t>- 


o 


Keq 


o  o 


■S  a  r  • 

3  ca 
5"" 


Z  k!i  .2  ja  iJ' w  5  oTs  S  bT  M  „-  M 


fr^^ 


^  i:^  C  q  ' 
J3  3  c  a 


OS 
J2  a 


CO 

O 

■a  a-g 
a  3  9    ■ 


•395 

9  go 


3,       Or-   '='    «l^   Si 


1  S.H 


9-^ 


3  K-C'S 


•-;.-S  '^'S  9'^  I 
«  2  H  9  ^  2^ 


.3°        - 

ca  Q^  o  ot^ia  CD 

;    ^O'V^D   CD   O    &   g   c 


sOt— 'C^COfiDCOt^GOOO'— «C^C0"^OC0t-^00OO 
4COCOCOCOc:cOCOCOCOCO-^'^-^"^*^TM-^-^'^"rJiiO 


)i— (lOiDOt^-CDcOOiCD'^CJCOCO-rOtDOO 


3O'-HC0G0C0CD0iCSC 

ococo-^ocoi-Hcocoor    "^    -    ~' 

O-^COOCOOOOOOC - 

iOiDiOiO'OUOiOiDiDiDiDiDiDiDiOi 


50r^r^r^ci(NOicocot 


1— •  O  TJ4  Oi  GO  C 


t^  t--  r^  t^  i^  r^  t 


.  t--.  r-  r-  t^  t^  t 


r-^  .-«  C-l   --^  ITJ 


-OcO^'-H'-t.-HO'-'^' 


^  O  r-H  10  CS  C^4  O  O 


«-HC-»r-ii-.COCS'-<COCOCOC 


Can  03  2  ^  X;  .9  a  >="-  ^-S  <U  -H 


43  o 

O  p  f 


|o 


o 
>.o 


■       >>  O  G  « 
oi^U  35 


3-5: 
1° 


5feO' 

"5  9. 

fflcG-4i 


cO 

o 


3^  Om  ' 


.    „    O  flH    >>  O    9    O    n-, 

^g£f2'^§'t;s'S 

o^S"*;^^  9  d  s 

■;=  3lS  cap  beg -13 


o|b 


0-1 

3  o 


£^°3  c  o 

>>5  "i*  a  d 

1-    O  CM   3r  , 

to  ca  aj  Ot3 
c3  ca  ^  - 


a> 


3050 
CO  oj3 

■3         CO  0 


S  3 


'O  o 


r  a  g  o 


.-iiNcon<iosot^oOCT>o.-HiNco^jqtDt>.oo2§j5c^55^c3 


3042 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


OO^OC^OO  —  CDcOOOO'-H^wO^OO'-'^OO^OOOOOO 

t^  r^  t^  t^  t^  t^  r-- 1^  t--  t^  t^  1--  r-  t--  OS  r-  i^  i^  i^  t^  t-  r—  1^  I-  c-j  f- 1^  r-  r^  t-- 1-- 


05  cc  00  «::' T"  — 1  GO  t , 

O  <>)  CM  (T)  C^  O  «:  I-  -^ 

—  OOOOOOOC^ 


r^  t-  t^  i-^  I 


CO  C^4  O  C^  CJ  C^l  CS  '-'  C^ 


■J3 


f^a 


^■S'^ 


"2  « 


:z£^ 


o  „i 


Ph    . 


o 


OO 


oPh5 


J^o  S 


S'3.--t;«  S£.°  ^  £  c^-2  o-g  c 


O   p 

<£K:z;m:z;o«WK»MGhjaopHK?:(2SguE^ 


22i 


£-  o  fl  o  « 


3.S.^- 


H  O 

.se 


as 


'a;  S 
>  3 


5'a 

O  o  a 


^  a 


P  OJ  o 
5  to.- 


.°s^ 


O3C 
P^  O  3 

9       bn 


C  o  3 


U  5  o  i- 
o  w  3  _, 
'S  ^  9  © 


Eg  a  3    •  §  o  o  >., 

S  bJ3t>'^'^'«fe   OT   O   ;> 

isf^'n-c'^  la's  C  £P 

E^[x,eqH:;:z;cocoWWpH 


■00 


Cm    , 
TJj^  o  -  , 

S  ?  tH  3 '' 

9  c  >.n 
o  3  a  t- 


bo 


^oP5 

K^o  o  a 


►^  '.So 

3   6JD  (J.,  0 


Sh  c  ^■ 

_f^  o 
*-  o  ^ 

Ig5 


j  9  ^n 

=15  a 

J  en  O  m 


>,   ■      „  o  fl  •« 
„    .j=:s  c3  o  2 

tH   03   O  O)  OJ  fe   © 


C<ICMC^COCCCOCOCOCCCOCCCOC^'rJ^TpTp'^Tj*'^"^Tr'^TriOiOiOiOiOiC»OiOtOiOCO«DCC'COCDCD':0 


OOr-C«MC*10iiC«CCC^'—  C:CCC0aJCiQ0CC0itDt>lCCO»0»0r^"rt'O0i»C(>J03OC0OC^'— 't^QO 


)  iO  (M  t^  1-  I 


o:-^CMr-aio»occcOQOoO'rr-^u^OcocooO':005CSooocr- 


5COO^OCCi:C>— '0101CCiCiCCi»0»OrpiOTj-t-^— 'Ol'^C'-'' 


'  Ci  CC  C-*  00  c^ 


10OO00'-'OO'-hOO0O0<NO'— O.—  O.-'.-i.-hO-hOCMCOO— 'ClOO^MOr-OCM 


.- ,    -    ,    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    ,    -    -    ,    .    ,     -    -    .    _.t-.t-t^t--i>-t^t^£^i>-r^r^ 


.  t--  t-  r^  h-  r-  t-  r^  i^ 


r^t^t^i--t^t^r^t^r-t 


.-(.— itOCOC^ti— 'COCOOCO'^CCCO         I-" 


CO  ^  --H  -— '  1^4  (M  C^l 


CO  CM  -->.—(  cc  C^ 


X.      - 

0.2 
3  t. 
PhW 


<S|^.2i 


> 


dl^aS^J^I^^ 


o  b*    '^  9 1:   -O  •=  -r  c  "^  9  lT  «  ..-  o  "S  -2  <i 


^S'^  S  ^.S  >  c  ^.9  2r=  6-a  g  aS 


,.20 


o 

.2  "3 -3 


wJ3     iw 

go  rt.a 


o« 


^     -CiO 


fl  o ; 

>,  3  : 

41  O  1 

3^  ' 
«  p 

S9 


Sa- 


P  o  § 

,    "  p  — 

p  g'*s 

3  53-.  ra 


;  0.1^ 


,  3'^  0=3>S  d^ 

b^^.s^'SII'pJS^ 

-a  "p  9  3  9^  3  ^  I 

feE^   jnSpf^r-g, 
■S;3gSgi3.^0A, 

9x'S^^.a^gS: 


JS  a  a  " 

"O  3  gpg 


BT3  a  p^ 


o  d 

i2  P  00 
•-3  Ota 
£.i3  r/-,°3 

'»-.9p 

g§S2 
69Sm 

O   P      ■      ■ 


O  o 


3  S's  y 

o  o  o  p 

[i,rv,  31-1 


w    >j    P    P  "3    O 

feb,3i-^fe 
"P  O 


So^ 


P5^^>>5- 

s  =:^  i  g'otii 

■a2  p  S  a  „ 
mP<  g.^-  S 


oo  P 

>.C?oO>> 

f;  c  ^^  ■-  p 
9  3  ^■o  3 

^^as^ 

og<b-$ 
c3:5x:.9'p 

UUPh,?0 


t-IC^CC.^J<»OCCt^CCOiO--'C^CC'**iOccr^OO^O^CSCCrriO!Dt^00050 


IO»0»C»OIC»010»0»0?OC050 


'^  5 


;  50  CC  (^  t^  i^  r^  I 


00  00  00  00  00  oc  c 


3  Tt^  10  ^  t^  00  OS  O 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3043 


^  CO  '—'•-'  CD  CO  CO 


^  iQ  CM  c^  o  r-  o  ». 


i-'Ot^'-HOOOO 


t--  r-  r-  r^  r--  t--  t 


J  iM  --H  CO  »0  CO  iO  IM 


COOCDGC— "I^^XCO'^C'OCi'n''— 'OCO-— <CO';pCD005Cr5CO'^t^OOfO 

oocc--HCOO'^rO'--*"-^"Oc::;C^c£c»;^3COOocoai--;co;i-cor-. 

^^__.,-x,— ,^-,/— ,^_hCS<N'-''-''— '^OO  —  OOO-— 'OOOr- tOClOO 

._._r-^h-h-.t^i^r-.r—  t-^t^t^h-t^t-^r^t^r— ^^^^t^^-^-^-^^^-l"- 
^^os(^l■^cs■^cM'^^^^^■n^'-'^^.— IOC.  'rT'Cico^ocsO'-Hioc^jcocO'-H 

*-'-'''-.  i"^        . .  ^  ^, ,  ^  _-  -^.  ™~,  ,;vi  ^  ^  CS  Tf  CI  <N  CO 


lO  iC  »0  UO  lO  iC  lO 


OI(N'-Hf-lCOfCCC>^CMCO'-l'>!*HT}*[ 


c  O  t,  1 


03  Of 
o     .. 


^M 


^  O.S-? 


■■oS 


03^ 


-S^^Jj 


■i.    X    K~' 


395 


Sj?*iP  oiS'^t» 


o  , - 


fl  o 


=  S=;_;  o«^>,^0_; 


—  a 
►-■  03 

60 


^O 


SS3 

°  2 


a 


la's  !*> 
•S  oS  o  oi  2  5 


W   >^0   CO 


O^  o  3  ci 

>>  OT  ^    o   3 

t,  3  ^    ra  c 

9as  rt - 

o30^g 


S  r"   O 


do 

Obo 


is  c 
■5  3  s 

C.  o  « 


■I2  3  &=  fi  a 

r^.  "^  ^*^  h^    O 


Soo 


o  o 
00 

.S.S 
Hs^o 

■g^  3eo  ? 


3pi 


^   O  C3 


,,'a  >> 


cm^z; 


a  §2 


S  o  yig  3    .^ 


;^  n  3  >>o' 
'  ^  3  3  i;(n=y 
>bL,&H  O  0  ee  - 

BO  0^  gQj=i  fe 
3jq  o-gx:  2  3 


^*ooa:0'-HCMco■^^o^^cx)OiO■— 'C^coTt'iccot^GcoiO'— "(Nco'»*'»ocot--G<oo:o--'Ci 
oco^:o^*^-^^^-^-•^*^-^*^^^^aoooooooooGOoooooooooiOiOiOlOlOlOi050laiOOO 


OiCOiOOCOTPCOO-— "CCCMOOt- 


JC'JfOO0  1--QOr^C<0Tj<^COCJCMCO 


CMCOt--r^r--'^»0--H^-<OlC'lrI'COCNaOC)OOt-^0--'(NC5C100"^GOC3':r'OOC^COCi 


sec.—  C'JcC'Oco'rr'oaiaoi 


■•(NCOCJC^OI:--O^CO&G(MOr^aiOOi 


000000000000— lOOO—iC^OOO-^—iO'-'OO  —  -hO-hO-^t 


- 1^  !>•  t^  t-  i^  r^  t^  r^  r-  I 


JiCiO'OO'OiOiOlO 


OOC^O'Tt'COCO^t^CSO'— icCO(NC^CO.--*.-H,— t0si--'00t--C0r0CJOOf0C0i-*00O-' 


COCOOCMi-Ht-ii-I— ICOU^CO 


J  CS  ■-'  i-H  cs  cs  c 


Ph 


'P  3     ' 

!  .3.2 


£  M  S  o  5  (S 


3|i|-'£.9>.cg5'^S 


'3  O  CO  J 
3  3   t-  — '  t— * 


O  CO  1 

a3  I 

P.  3  I 


5mS 


°3 


S  3  3  2  ,==  S  '^  "a 
E  5  3  •  -  p  ■«  -e  '^ 

^"^   3   S  P"^    >--i. 

A     ^     <-}     O     l>H  ^-H      ^ 


I  -  31*  txK° 

,  ^J^  3  O  - 
i.*^      oi  CO  3 

g  aai-a 

•  3^1'ES ; 

I  Ph  f-<  fe  CO  f^i  h 


^oa^i;^S3« 


O  3 


I  3  b^l*  -, 


o 


oO  C 


0^  c  f^ 


P^  3 


-^  3-3  t;2J=°°&H 


o  o 

'-      '^  ^     -^    .  iH  fc~ 

«3|^^^-3  3« 
—  .3  3 


5  =  ^«^--  = 


^•3 


=  g351&«2r 

i  I-  5  coii  IS    .J3.i  . 


5!  3,0  fe.2^  3»3 

:::  o  o&H-  te  3  g  «:3 
<Oac£cO-c;§W 

^  fD  S'7^  a  ^  '^  r^  ^  •^ 


O 

■3H 
>  c; 


1— •  CM  CO  -^  ^  CO 


)  05  O  --H  iM  CO  ■^  I 


-  Q.C.  OS  O  >— '  tM  CO  "• 


^r^xcsO  —  (NcO"^ico 


05050>OiOiOSOOlOSOOOOOOOOOO— '— (^r-<^^.-H«.-.r-iCNCNCM(MC 


83876— 35— PT  13- 


-10 


3044 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


>^s 


i-^OO      1 

1  r-<        1 

'  »o 

1  o      1 

■  t>- 

OO      ' 

.C^'^J"      ■ 

1  CM      1 

1  ^ 

to 

1^ 

o 

c^  0^  p  '£  o  S 
oi  «  ^  c;  *e'~' 


tj-ooco^i-f^iceooaiooKNooc^oo 


Ocoe0'^oi'-ir-ic<i'^ 


OGOOiOiOiOCOOOSOOt-^OCNiOfNCOOOCOOOiOINOOOOOO'^CO 
CnC0»O00«-tTt*OCS0l0001C0i0OC<IC0--H50i0iO.-HOi05'^tNrf^C^as 


+j    g  CD 
i-^-    O  CI 


ooiO'-'OO'-Hair-oo- 
ot^'-t»ocx)ccr>.-^Oir-ooo^i:fjc^ocoiocoo<Naooai'^OGOO 


+j^  CO 

a  o  en 


000000000000000*0000000000000 
O>OOOOOOOCSOOOOOO>Q0OOOOOOOOOOOC3 

oooooicoi— «oooo»oooQCOOccor-oooir-ooo 

0'^oo»oaoot^'--*"LQOoc^"ooaroc^*c4"oc'foo--^ 
0(MOor-^030»oco*oiococDocDi-<.— loooc^csoasu^ooio 

— ■         (N  CO         lO  lO  (M  —  -  -- 


rHCO  — t 


.--  C^  CO  Tj<  CN 


lOiOTfOi'— <'00i-^iO"^iooioO'*r~-GOOcc.-'GOOcor-coh-.i 

COOOOC^COCOGOOCOCDCDiO'^r-(TfOiCtDt--Oi"^CDTfOOOJi: 

lo  oi  oi  c-i  as  "Tp  cc  '■£;*  rt"  go  co  od  "^*  t-H  :d  od  c^'  <-*'  cc  ■*^'  .-<  oi  co  go  od  cc  (^  o 


W  ,-t  ,-1   (N   i-H   . 


iC^CSCN(MCS^'-'C^^r-i(N(M(NCSC^CCThCCCO(MCNCN 


3  o  >^  &  o  CD        ^ 


>-H  CO  O  CO  lO  c 


)^--iOco(Nco^^ccr^cNO-:j*"*r 


.  O  O  rt*  (N  C^  CO 


■^C^'>«*«'^'-Hc0iO00CD00lMTfC0<-<«D»OO'-<00C^OrP'<fC0CO'*'^O 


<  ic  r-  -^ 


h-COCSOO^-HO" 


"COGOOCOCOiOCOeOiOOlOOO 


iOCO'^Tt«l>.Mi-i-«j*r-i<N05iCiO-^MC^COOiC^C^'^0 


CL,  '^    g    fl    g 


GO  1--  o  o  r^  '- 


^'Ooooi--co(M«oa3CDi-i(Maio^"*c<j(MrocaTt^cc'Or 


't— ICSCOCOCO— '-rfiO^OOiOCOC 


J  CO  CO  CS  C) 


GO'— 'coo-rrr^-— ti— icoTj*(Mcor-.r— o- 


;  —  (M  -^  cs  r^ 


.-tCNCa:OfM'-"^'*CO"^COC^'-»C^(NCS(NC^COCC(Ml^GOt-l>COTt*C^ 


i^  ^  C  'a  o  o 


CO'^OOOCDOTpTM'-'iO'rraiOOOC^OOOOOC'lGO-'J^lM^O-^fNCO 
r^00C0(M-rr00COO0lTl*-^Ol-^t^'*C0COt-^CS'^"^COG0C001CM.-ir-l 


5'*or^aiGOC^4t^»ccot^c^:or^ait^i 


3C^iO<oa>c^aoiO"^t--OiCscoL 


-OlOCO-^COC^I^C^ 


i-«         CO         .-t  CO 


|,_-,^t^CDCOCOCDOCO'^COt-- 


.w  2  "^  .S  =^ 

"S  o  o  o  ^^ 


lOioco— 'o-^cTiocc^i.-Hr-ioor-'aic^t 


1  CO  --H  X  C-J  ^  O  GO  » 


—Ji-hOGOiO— <01CDCS'-H--*tc0C0C0O'^OI^Q0C0'-'G0C .__      , 

'^0000CN00OG0'-''-'G0G0OO-*C0^C0ai!MTf05  —  COiOCDfCGOO 

^c^*cD^-^od^-^^^c^f^^cd"^:Dcoa^^^oorC^^^co'■^c^foI>^o^ 


Oi        00-^"tiCOGOOiC^r-HOI-^COC^'— ii— <        cooot^ 


50-^r-l         .-H 


C  c3  C  S^ 


Tt<OW003t^^'3'— '•-HCD00'^O'-iOi0rt<'-HTt*i-iC^i0f-aiC^C0'-<C0iO 

»OOI:^OiGiOiOOt^TPiMcDQOiOCSt^CC03COl>-'<^OOC5COCO(N'^C»iO 

odc3roh^o'b^id"ocd"ib^occ(N"c»cdo»oc35'-lTKcdoicdi>^ococo 

.-H^C^CSC'5.-.t:OcOC^COMCSi-iCS.-ti-iC^CS(NCO»-iTt*Tf<'«J"*CO«C^ 


COCOOiOCOOcOCO— <-— ir-HCOt^'^OOOi-H'— 'r^O-— 'OO-— it^iOOiCOCD 


d  -*  Oi  r^  lo  1-- 


O-^CaGOCSiCO-^CO-— 'Oi'-'COcCiCOLOCOOi'' 


COCOr^iOCSCOOOSOlt^OOcO'— •'OGOCO'^OQO'— •O'^tCGOClCSCOO 


C^  CO  --t  !M  »0  to 


1  r-  Oi  lo  -^  CO 


OOiOfNCOOO'-'O'OClOC 

t^h-or^cocDor^'" 


>ioir:itoi---^cD'MTf»o-H--^^HGOcoh- 


.  O  Oi  Ol  CO  O  1       - 

;OQOccGOt^<Moo«:'c 


3<NOiOO»Or^COiOOO 
■   -- "T  O  GO  1'  CO  Tfi 


OCN-— 'OcOt'^COGO-^'^'^^fM'— 'OO'— »0         .— 'cDiOCOCOCO^ 


I  »-.  ,-1  C^  CO  '^ 


CO  O        Tt'  CD  -ct<  CO  - 
,-(  tP  CD  CO 


coO'OcorooicDC^c^coos'^osoaco-^'^b-'-ioot^coo: 

»or-'.QOOOsor-0'— icO'-'ooooocoosor-r    ""  ' ' 

.-iCO<Nr^COGOCO(M'<fwoOr^CSlCO'-'Oi " 


lOdCOGOOOCO'-l* 


(CO^PtN^CO— *         i-tiOl-* 


CO  C^  C5  00  t—  to  CO 


/^    0.-( 


13    ^ 


;^ii;i^ 


CO  — '  CO  CO  »o  rs 


;-^cocOGOcot--Hr---GOt 


r--  -^r  to  X  ^  c 


'  X  b-  ■*  00  (N  O  -t* 


-ascoxt-'^-^toco,— (1 


3  O  lO  t--  '-'  -^ 


OiOcDCO-— 'O-^-^t^'^'— 'tOaiCOCl?0>005C>10 


cocoxocor-c-i-— 'Ot— i>-'^co-^t-*o.-H.— iTj^-^cO'^cor-- 


OXt^CD"*toC0<MTt^01'^C0-^CMi-l'^ 


OS  O  O  CO  CO  M  CO 
-J  X  X --I  <-<  i-< 


COCOOStMcOCOTpClO'-'CSllOOCDt-tN'^OSCOiM-^C^COO'— '^-'COCO 
CiCSiOXOSXOr^-^OS'OC^-^-^COI-—  •-"COX'*'— '— •t-C'iCOOfNO 
OtOTj^iOOXr^t^X-— 't^'MCO'^COX(MCOiOOitO»OCS-^-^tOC^CO 

2  o' r-' co' »o' — r  o 'Tt'"  o' cs  .-h' ic  oT  u^*  o' -^^ --h' CO  o  co' t^J"  CO 

Z?.CO'— ''0ClC0t--CD05CDt0OT«C^C0ai'^'^fN'-'C^C>lCC0Jt0CiXO 
'^^       Tt^iOC^OsOCO  -^Tt^fMr-Hi-t  t-HCO--*         i-(--HeO'-trr'(N'^ 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOiOQOOOOOOOOOOO 
OOOOOOOOCSOOOOOOXOOOOOOOOOOOO 
OOOOOtOO'— 'OStQOOtOOOXOCOOOOt^OOOsr^OOO 

oioootooor^'--^'cooc5"cs"oooioc^>-H"o^'o  oooo 


0(Moot^coox»ot: 

C^  CO        lO  to  cs 


cocoocO'-H'-'r^oc^-^toostooot 


-Hc^eoTf<tocor^xcfto-|C;iM^u^cDr-xoo-^csco^Logh,QO 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3045 


N -^  O        Oi  "*  "^ -^  !>.  CO 
CO  «0  t^        iO  OO  O '-<  00  C<l 

cdcocDjT^TjJt^ooooodod 


ort-^^Cl^ooi"occt^c*r 

CO  *-*  ^  W  r-<  CS  --H  lO 


ooo  oooooo 
ooo  oooooo 
ooo   o  o  o  :o  c^  en 

ooo'C^toiooc^for-^ 


T-tOO'^OOOCCCOlMOCO 

c^Tfi—  coocooor^'^Oi 

Ot-^(Nt^»OOOOOSiOt--I 


lOCDtO»0-^h-'-HGOC^"^ 
lOO'-Ht^-T-tTfOlf-HOOCi 

eoot^c4o5t^cdcDodco 


r--^oooir--^Cico'^ 
(N(Mrcc^cO'^c^-s*rccJi 


.-fio-^ast^coo-Moico 
■^co^t^cc^ooxot-- 
o  r^  o  »c  oi  -H  ^  o  "O  -H 


ecorHiooosiococoo 
iooiioor--trO'-f^cO'-H 

iCO-— 'OOI>-t^t^fOiOO 

lO  o  ro  t^  CM -"H  o  r^       r^ 


Tpa>»o-^ai<Mc»ocn-^ 
coc»aioi— 'co'^O'^'-' 


— .lO'-'OOOi'^h-OcO 

cocOGOOO'-Hcccoocsiro 


cocsocooi"'y5"odio^od 


coo-^ooocot-^-Ht^t^ 

FH^iOCOOOt--— «0>TJ*0 
■^"Tp^-OOiOCOOOiOiO 


TfiOfMiO^DOOOOOOC*:) 
TfO'-'ClC^t^Ot^OO 


O  O  ':d  CO  CO  O  t-  : 


t^coc^cscocscsc 


OiCS        00 


i-iiOC^CNico-Hr^iomio 

OiiMO'-'OltOCs.DOr^C^ 


OOOOOOOOOO 
OOOOOOOOOO 
OOOt^OOOTt^C^)^ 

ooo-rf'iooooot-T 

OOOOlOO^COCD-rfiO 

— (   r-.  ^  40  »0  (M  -^ 


OSO-— tNcO"^»O(Dt--00 

cscoeococccococ^coco 


00  5 


C3  ^ 


eo^iociooi^Tt<c^Tt*r--c^ait--i^!Conr^r^co 

CnOOOO.-HiO^iOCOiOOC'OiCOQnp-ir-lO'-'O 
CO  ^  Tt^  O  C^l  00  O  C-l  CC  OJ  CO  CJ  Cr-  CO  CD  t^  Tf  <C  CI 
OOOOCSO-^O— 'OOOCIO— '^^^^ 

t^  t^  r--  h-  T'- 1-  r-  r^  t--  r--  t^  r-  h-  t^  r^  I-*  h-  1-*  r- 

»o  --« »o  CM  o  lO  c-j  »o  c::  CO  *o  lO  CO  ^  t>-  (>»  -rp  1-H  CO 

1— iiO^O.-'         i-HTj«CM^CS)C^!MCS         ^(N         CS 


te 


•^  <-r  c^    ~  Vi  -5  >  i-i  P^  -j-j 
~  c.^  '^'■-  "^^    .  . « 


'  Qj  car3  c:  o  ^ 
."ti  o  ~  ^  .t^  u.   i^  o:)  -^  -^  •  ^ 


03  "2 


S  C-fJ  fe  fflS  >*  o  « 

3  £'^i^  "^ti.u  o  a 


2  •=:  >i;  s 

^  o  3X3 


O  a> 


3  C;3  ^3 

03      03'j: 


■SO 

CO   C   °M 


"3  = 


o5g 


^  o  »J  c  ts  j5 


q  M  2;  o  h:;  ►-;  K  K -<  2;  o 


o 

^..  03  OJ  o  O 

.503  w.  O  03  O 
03-^       W  ^i  K- 

5  °  o      oZ 


«M 


o— tc^co-^^':iOt~^oocTiOT-i(McOTtHiox:r^co 

(MCS(NC^CMC-('M(N(N<MCOCOCCCOCOCOCOCOCO 


C^^0lO00CJ^'-HCl(M05OCC00O':r>C0--'C0 
cr^oc  iCO^njCOCOOi-^CO-^^OcOcOClGC-^COCO 

t--  r^  c^i  QT'  o  ■^  CO  en  CO  cr  o  CD  X  CM  -^  -- '  c^  (X  r-- 

-^^— .OOC1"-'00— lOOOO'-tOiOClO 


;iO«J^^'OiO»0'0»0<- 


;  lo  »o  lo  "■:> 


O  CI  CO  O  ■-<  CM  CO  c 


C>i  C-J  CO  CM  C-J 


■o     o 


I       I       ■       :a^^       'S^ri       '    03  O  l^  Sj  i^   ="       '       'ti 

■^  -  c^-  vT  fe  •£  "  g  ^  '^.'O  «  §.  ©-  ?f  .  rt-  -- 


o  P3  M  CO  f^  2;  Q  g  G  o  o  i-j  r^  M  f^  m  o 


o^ 


°  O  a 

:og5 
c:  »„ 

c  ao3 

tD  C  3 

■o  S?cn 


:  =9 


o 

s^O    CZ 

■Spa  8  S? 


vS  <f  K. 


3.2 


'•3C.2-       - 


3;2c>.3 


o  o 

oo 


3  <P 

S-2 


Of  3  S  —   &j)J=  ^   O 
i-  O'-Q^  «  3  3 

„ si.s^iai'l^.^lsas 

,^hromta<;<iHC2oSjwKZ^aw 


3  aif^-~<>t 


3046 


MUISriTIONS    INDUSTRY 


w  a^  S  P.J4  ■"  D.  M« 


PL,V;    g    U    M 


2;S; 


105 

00^      1      1 

■  r^ 

Tfi  CO       1       1 

:  (M 

GC  CO  o  -^  h- 
lO  <N  C^  C^  C^J 


00        C^C^CA 


1      t      t  o 

CO  --I*      1 

lOCOOO'^OOOOiOfMCOr^QOOCCiOC^COCOOC^rOOuOOiO-^-HCO^- 

coi^cscoGO'-Hcot^ccoascoc^oc-ir-io-^c^ost^oOii^t^Oi— 'Ot^— < 


3  i-H         Tj<  C^  r^  T-1     I 


Ji^I'-CiOcDw'^CO^'^OO-^- 


.-I  CO  Tt<  lO  ^ 


H  CO --H  lO  ^  C^  CO  03  lO         i-H  CO 


omos-^cDOO'OcDTr<>o-^i--oocoOia3r~-'^-^i^oo»0'rt<-- 


OMcor^^'-'COCOGO«Dt_    __ 
CDOiOOiO'^iO-.^J^CSOiCOOO'tt^l^CO' 


b»COOCft        ■*  C^  CO  O-^  OiCOlM  CD  CO  »0  CO  O  1 
OiOiOM  i-iTjH(M_COi-i  t^OOCOi-*' 


iQOiOb-<MCSOt>-^t^t^CO 


ooooooo»ooooooooooooooooooooooo 

30000000000 

30000— -ooooo 


OOOOOOOt^tocOCOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


COCOOO^OOOcOCO^iOiOOOOOC 


i^OO»ocooo*-HTt<ro-, 


'CMr-tO»OiOOOCSiOO»00000000 
■~    -(  (N  CO  O        -^  lO        .-H  CO  CO  O  lO  lO  ^ 


£i^  g  ^  o  ><  ®Ho 


§  §  s  f 'eS 

O     tZ^    O    ^    C3 


S  !n  a-  -^  "^  '^ 

fc^  ^  a  a  o  § 

^  •"  g^  o  "^ 


-  <3^ 


'='5  "^  cr- 
op q  S-! 


h*" 


?:i  o  <^ 


-*^  _?5 1^ 


t^coiooocicot^-^i:^oOGOaiCfic:"^<rooaiCi-^-<*<-:t<iocot-oco^too5 
oo":tr--^'MGOcooc^ooGOioo^»ococ-)c*icOT^i--o:)C^'t^'— 'ooaioic^-^ 

ioc^OTt^cdr^toaJ-^'ouoci6oio:toococou^u:ioooo^cD'i^C)0'^«o 

i-iC<»CCCO'-i'-iC^r-i(MCSi-ti-tCOi-»C^CqcOCO'-(iM(M'3'C*)CO^CSC^M'-HF-l 


C0t-Gi0Tt<00'-Ht^C^05Or-OOOQ0iOXlOO"*'^00t-O^O01-*0S-^ 

r^coc^-^cs^co-— <— (OCiiO'-HO'M'OcoO'— 'C^r-"ococo-^-^cc(M'-Ht^ 
'^^■^odc^c^cd-H*cococdodco^^'--Jaiodcdcoc4o5cood'-H(Nccc6o 


<^^coi-HTt<co(NClcscSi-'COTfr-cD: 


<  IM  '^         O  1-1  C»  CM  1-t  T-H  CO 


COfOC^COi-it^OO^-'-iCOCOCMaOCOC>CO^OOCiOCOQO(Ni-iCOiOCO»Or-C<ICO 
Tt*0'^<NcOC^01COC>0--tOQOiOCSOiOTt<CM.-H<NOii-<cOt^COOcO'<*'<--iCQ 

i-iC0»OiOi~ii-(C^C^C0C<l'-H!NTt<(NC0W»O":''-«C0Tt<t-'<J*iO--tTj'(MC^.-i.-l 


Tt<CMOiO(M'^COO^OOOO'M'^Ot^'— 'COiOCiCOGOOOCSL'Oas-'S'CDiOr- 


O'^Oi-^CO'^- 


Tf^COCSXiOOCOOt-^CO— 'Tt^'— 'CSCOCTJt— t>-tMiOCOQO»H 


C^i-«(NCO'-tiOCO(MCOC^(N(N-n*a>' 


^O-^IT^COTtHGO'—iOO'—lGOC^  C'l'-HOS 


HQOOO^r^O^'M'-'cD'^OC^eoo^-^OTf'^f>oo-----:;OQO 


i-H  CO  -*  CM  O  lO 


CO-— •ooo-^cc'^ootoco  —  ■^co■^lMoooco^- 


^^^-l^l^*^•*ooc^^wcD^>•co^^ ■^Tf^i-'r-ioocO'-HCDasc-it-co^-^t-cot—o 

GO  Tj<"  (rf  00  CO  tjT  CO  C<f  O  O  t-T  tC  CO  lO  00  O  O  to  GO  o 

lOiOCMi-H  (NiOi-itN  CO(MCOi-*i-l'-Hr-.CO^  ^£2l?3"^'~' 


w:>'-iCT>C^O0500l>-C0t^c0Q00SO--<C^^00CD00C0»0C0OO00OiO»H00 
CO-*<-H050Tt*CT>^00<Mt^OSCOOOcOOt^l>t^^<NOOOCiO'-'lMC3iQOTt* 

•^l^OrHCD^>^»coicdo^>^■^"lOGOC^c<ic^oil0^^coGO•-HC^'cClO■^cocdw^ 

i-HC^-^-^**  1-H  (M  CN|  1-1  i-«  CS  C^  Tp  CO  --I  (N  CO -^  •'^  CO         CO  (N  (N  r-t  rH 


WC^O-HOOOCOCOOitOi-fOOt-^COi— (COOOCDaOCOOOcDiOOSTt<OOiOCOOCO 
"^COiOi— t-^OSOOO-— tiiOi-lCO-HOiasCM'^OQOCSOC^'^'^OcO-^'OCO^H 
OOCOi-iiOfMCOCMCCCOCftt^COfM'^CO(MCOCOCOO'<:J^-<^Oh-Tri:-(Mt-CDC3 


^C^OO-H 


ict^ccOi-t  ot— c^ococDcoooc-iw      or-coow 


CO  as  h*  r- 

OcO"*  ^ 
O  ^  CM  CO 
CD  iCtjTcm 


CM  GO  O  to  CO 
t-  00  to  CD  -^ 

as  lo  o  Ci  GO 


COTf  CM  CO 


r-i-'aiO'— tcoTHcot-ioO'-'Tr*rO'— 'cot^ 

Tfai— 'GO'-iCOCMQCt-OOasiO'^'-'CMOl^H 
i-»r-*C0C0C0(MO'O'<J*r^C0        Tj^OOCMC-ias 

iciooaTcMu^^iocoocM      t-Ttoi-rtCr-H' 


CO  CO  r>- 1-< 


, ^-.,. „    . ^jaiiOOlOOCO-^CMiOt-CO 

.    ..JO-^Oi'— <Tt<OOCDaiiOaiCM-^CDiOtOCMcOCOCDCM 

icocM'^CMor^ThCMcoc^cDa3a5'-'aiwaiCMcococO'<t<iocoo 

lOf-Tr-T        i-T  TjT^  cM^lOCOr-T 


COCOCOi-'O^COCOOt— CMTt^i— 'CDCOCDOOl^CMa:C^OCOaitOaiiO-^-i:J<r- 

lOoiascoo'^'^Otoor— tocMt— cO'Oooooir-'^'^aii'^'^oocMcDCM^^ 
lOcococMocM^to-^t—oocoastoco-— lO^-^cDcocor— coaii— "Oco^t^o 


ooiOTfCMTpiocor-ooascoaicoiooocscoio^H'— •aiCM'-HooiocDcoocoas 


O  CO  lO  CM  C^  CM  r-H  iO  CO  lO  ■^  CM  CD --H 


1— lascocootoastoaiiocooaiajcoaicDGOO'-HOTt^osQOcoaico'^ciio 

CMCOCOi— 'OOiOr-GOCMOOOOOCD-^CD-— 'COOOtiOOGOiOr-OCDr-"^ 
OOi'^'^i-HCMt-'— (lOTf^CMiOt^i— <COt-^CDOO'-<tOOOOGOCM*Oi— lOOCOr- 

C^CMI^TjToOtCcN'cDGOiOCM'i-H'oocOCM'-rCMCDod'-^'tOOr'^^ 

r- ^  OS  »o  CM  CM  1— 1 --<  o  t^  t^ -^   CM  CO  CM  as  "^ --<  CO  ■^  r- CD  1— t  CO  CO  o  CD  r- o 

rococo  1-1  CM         i-»  ai  ^-t  '-•  to  r-H  CO  <-<  CO  1-i 


D.  oai 


CTfOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
O-^OOOOOCDOOCOOOOOOOOOOOOOQOOOOOO 
CDWOOi-<OOOCOOi— 'tCtOOOOOOOOtOOOOOi— "OOOOO 

r^as"o o CO o oo CO  to ■^■-TcM  i-h'o  to  oco o'cm'»o o o o C3 

a>OC^I*OCMi— It— lOOSt^'— '-^  lOi— «tOiOO        rftOO'— 'COCOOOOi— < 

CM  Tj<  1-t  f-l         ^  ^  to  CM  iO»OtJ« 


rHMCO'tJ'tOCOt^OOaiO'— 'OlcO-^ftOCOr-GOCiO 


JTftOCDh-QOCSO 


CMC^C^CMCMMCMCMCMCMCO 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3047 


Ol  CD 
COCO 


iO»   I  CO 

CO  I  lO 
CO  I  rH 
CO      " 


lO  CO       I       <       I  lO  .-I 


OOO^        C0e^C^i0CT)i-HC0"^0iCfti0C0'*C0'^O0:C0i0I--Ci:>OO>0i-HG0OC0C0C».-Ht^CSOO(NO.-Ht^C0^ 
^^?r^.-,r^^?rt        ^idHiC31r-.^QOC^         CD        (N(N  JiOfOCSOOIMCS         OCOi-*COC00001tOCOCOI>^'*i-tt^I-.-t(NCOCO 


cs  CO  CO  O  t^  =o  CO      T-; 


Tj^OO         »-i         '-1 


,-«-«*<-*<         CNiOTpiO--'iOOXi(MQO-*C^tOOOiO(Mu:>OlCOCT! 


OOi'-H       c-i— icocooo»0'-'COioc^icocsc:!GCOi:^'^'*rr— ^(NOdoai 


3t^iOT-(,— «COOiOCD-#0'-<CDr^CO'-H-#COi— i-^iocOd 


30O05':D'-H>-''riOci0--<'^iOr--HC^c 


^*_cooO"<5^t^a5!C'--'c:l^•<*^c^cocsu^oTHQoot^'<s^:Doo<)'-Hl-M05Ttl|^al■x)o»o<y^ 

5  OT  i-H*  C^*  lO  Co' C^*  CD  CO  Ol"  ■^*  CO  CO  Tji' 00 --H  CO  Tj^  00  CS~  O  Oi^ 


CO  CO  O  '-'  c^ 


1-1  •-H         —"^    fN  "M  , 


ooo      oooooooocr^ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo 

OOO         OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOiOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO;^OOGOOOO»0 
OCOO         oO05OOOOC^OOOOOCfiOOCDt0'rj*ooOOOOOOO0iOOCiOOO»0G0Of0OOC005OOQ0 

r  ci"  lO  lO  co' O  O  tM* 


OOCOOcOOOO^OOCOO^OiOCSCDOO-^OO^^OOOOOOiOri-iO 


•  to  O  CN  to        CO  iQ  "^  C^  »0 


Tt^^CO.-HOlMCNOCOiOiM'-iCOiO 


CO   1-H   O  -^  C^   r-t  TJH   C 


OicocD-— ti-^c^i-— 't^iMcooi-^oo»o»-iTt*t-^i— iasooa:iiot^ioot'-r--#io^ 

C0TpTt*-:t*iMCDOC0C0i005t^O"^G0C0-^t-»OiO'^'-Ht^t^00ClC0t-'*f'-t 

tC■^*cd•^»OOCS"OCI^CDCDrl^'cDCOOicDOi■^*^o6oj^^COcdrHCO^ 
.-H(NCOiriCOC^C^COC^JC^r-lCOi--tMWC^'-l<Nr-ti-lrHi-Hi-ICOCMi-lC^CS'-l'-H 


locooc^c^  loooooias'^t^osr^cor-oo'^t^ 

l>.00O5t--'-H05C^(NiOO0100<N'-tC0-^-^tOiO 


GOCOh-00-<**COO'-i-^C^'-'OiOiC^OOOr^O 
t-H  (N  (N  M  M  CN  Tf  ^  Cfl  r-1  C^  i-H  ^  .-H  .-( -H         (N 


COOi(Nt^l~^t— r^OC^'OOcD»OGOC^CJlOOt^O"^'--*ioiOTfiO_ __-     - 

i-iOOOCO(N>-«'^^COOCOCmDOOt^OOCO-<T*aiOJfOi-i(:NCOCOOOCO(NC;cD.-H-<5^(NC 


^  C<)  !M  O  »OC^  * 


c41-^■5^«COC^^rHCO^I^'-^^'-lC^'*t^C^^tOrHOCq.-lC^CDCOC^'*C^.-t.-^rHVCC^ 


lO.— 'l^t^r-.CC'J^COCO'OCO'OC^COCOiOO'-'GCOOOi'^C^'OiO'— ib--(NOSCO 
OOWCDOiO-— "C^Ci00'O04C7SC^IOC0<N00t^^Ot--C^OCS-— ii;D00t-^r-CO 


t^.— (iCOO*— I'^Ot-'iOCOCSO-*'— 'OiCOCOft^ 

Qi,_(t-,.c\ii>.cjioa:coc^cSTroOGOOicO'^0"^ 


1— iC0»OOiOit--O100cOC33OiCOI>*'— 'OOOifO'— iC0OC000»Or~-C5iOC0Q0O'0 
C^COtOCS'^C'lCS'^ClOO'— tCO.-(CO-^COCSCO.~<C^C^i— <.— ICDC^i-HCOC^CSi-H 


i-H  ■^  CO  CO  CO  ^ 


D'^i-l(M.-ICOC^--tr-l.-lr-( 


OOlO-^t^OOiOOCOOCDr^-OO'^GO-^'^^t^'— <CO-^C^'-tasCOt^COC^OOQOOi-HTt'C^OOTPOCOt-OC^t^-^>— ICOG^ 

Soocooc^OTt*o»oo^CT)c^lCocooo■^OlC^'^<^^t^"*'^'-H(^^o^'-^coLCC^cDcc^-'Csu^^I>c^ 


OitOCOCDOiCiOC^'OCO'— tCOOlCOt^Oh- 


CSCMOCC^'^CSCSOTjHiOC^Tt^'— iCOt--'— tC^t^r-H-— "C^i-HCSC 


^OOOOOJCCO'-hC^O'MGOOOOC 


^OO-^OlcOCTitNOiOOicO-^uOiOh--^ 


5COC^i— lC^'£!C^iO03TfC0«DC0C4C^C005C^CD(N'-*'^' 


OiC^oco■^f^cO'-HOC^c<).-lcncowoc^l.-lOO^-ococO'^ooocoTt<uo^^ocS'*oc^c«c<lOu:>"^t<^^alOCT>cocoo 


OO  CD  1— I  Oi  »0  05  (N 


)'<3<'^(NCS-^iO00'* 


C0'-HC0C0iOai0i^-<*<t--C^»OCDCDOaiC0O'MC0OO05CD00OC0 


"^c^ooor--cscsco^ococooiOi^^^-cooocO'-Hrt^ooit^l005coc^Oico^-ocoo5C^^-05C^^^ocO'-HTt^colr^lO^ 


05  CD 'J*  iol---COr^CDT-HOCSCOThCOr^OOT-it^COW:>OCOOiCDC<J 


lO  Tj<  .-H  ,-1  CO 


<-<  lO  00  --I         <M 


•  cocoiococDcD-^t^'^cocO'— t-^r^ui^o-^cooocoo 

rH         i-trj"  i-Hi-HC^  .-ir-1         CDr-H         O 


ocoococDOi^oO'^c^'OciiO'-Hcococo^oO'^oit'^c^coiLC.— lOs-— 'ooooi-— 'r^cocor^-^cioo 

■^T}*OOCiOOt--aiC^OiCDOiCOiOCO'-<i0005-^OC7lCOCOOiOOCOCSCSOiC^'^'— <00<>J'*1''^*'^''~' 

ocD'^cDc»Tf^Tj-r-^coc^*'-^iO:D^*ooc^o6cj»oi^op>o 


>OCOI-^(MCSiOOOOU:'CO'aiCO 


C^CS'*Jti-iCvIC^(NCO(MC0'-< 


H(M  C^  r-«,-H         rH 


C^C^rHr-.(NC^r-4(Nr-^r-l 


OS'^(N00rH(-^icc^cOTj-t^-^(MI-^v.w-" 

OtO'^CDCOC^CS'OOC^C-l'-tutiCSCDCOt^tN 
OOQOfNOCOOOOit-^TrCNfNCOtOCOGOiOC^ 

t^lOOrrHc4"odiOOiCOOrr-r 

1-1  rH  ^   T-i  CO  rH 


-l(NairHlOTft-(NrHt^OCO»Or50irHCOOOlO»OOOlOeO:D.-<COC^C000005rH«I^OGO 

^cot^tN-— 'r-<r-.oiOooococ^iocot--cD-^csoiooc^ooaicior-co»ociiooieo»o— <Oi 

:;G0i0C^CS"^C0rH0irHiOC0r^I-^Ci000C000t0c0CDCO-^C0c0CD0iO^G001C^C0a5CSia> 

t^'r^rH'cO^od  CO  00  COC:>  COCOCOrnr^rH  ^  "^59 

-=J"M  CO  C^  O       g 


-*J^   CD  rH   (N  (M  C^  - 

t--— 'rHCOC^O-— '— 'OiCSCO 

cooot^r^'*'^ 


lO  Ol  lO  c 

c^odco  C 


rH   rH  C^   W 


lo  00  CO  r-  CO  rH 

CO  CO  •— t  CD  lO  <N 
CD  O  coco  1^- 


CO  CO  t^  rH  rH 


CO  CO 


CD00r-.-*^rHr-l-^00 


CO  (M        c^  r^       <N 


tOTfitO'^iO'MOS-^ 


CD  CO  C?5 


-^  ■^  ■   .-   .Oi£f5cOi005CO»OOcoC^ 

':J'r-.COTtlrHC*^-?J^-<:tHOOOCO(M(MO 


iC00rHCD05^-^t-iOiO(MTPI>.Oii0tOc0CDiOC00iC<ir0(MI--00C0CJ>CDOCDiOCDO' 


bTt^CS-^COrHt^h-CftOiCOOOOtM 


COCOCOOOCOC^rHCOOC'lOS'— trH00rf*a>C^JOrHC^?DO5C0ClC000rHC0'^OC0C0O00I>-C0iOO-t^O'-'C0"*tOC^C^iOCDr^ 

■«J^ooco■^cooOrHooc^coooorH^^loc^cocorHooc^ooccr^'<t''^coco'>^oc<lrHC^(^^c<I^-al^-cococTl^ 


CO  CO  rH  t^  C 


CO  lO  r-i 


00  CO  c-J  rH  lo  o  CD  <: 


;C5COCOlOQOrHTPOrHU^rHh-lO-*^rHiOCOlOCOCOCOCOO(NaSrHOCOlOrHCDr^Oi(>|lOt^(N-*-^rHrH 


OirHiocOrH(Nr*<ocs»oics.r^aiOGCcoc^t---c7icDo^coTt^ocDiooGC'CDrHoocDrHri'oiioaiaicor--oaiOiC^c^McOrH 
c<^rHc^cooico^^csoalOw:lCS"r}'co^ooiO^*oooc^cooorHO■^oooc^rHooo5cooiO■^QO■^coc^c^olrHoooal■^»c^^       ^ 

CO  CO  oT-^c^f  CD  lo  CO  o  CO  ^o  00  I^^^co*o  CO  uo  c^"co*o  co'o  lO  c^^  ^ 


.CO<N  '^lOrH 


^t^C^rH  rH 


rH  1-i  (0>  ^   '-^  ^-fOll 


rH  rH  CO  l-H  r 


'^C0C0CCO'-HiOOC0OC0O0000'*C^(N'>^iOaiiOiOai0:O(M'M00CD-* 


riiOiO^OCOCOOC 


'icooocDcoooococS'-'aiO'-'t^r-'' 


lOuOOOOlO'^^OGOrHlr^cDl—  '^rHCSfNt^cDcOOOCOrHCOt-^t^t^COQiCT) 


■^  CO  GO  OOrH  Oi  OrH  <00  ■-<  Oi  O  0<N  ooo  t^  >— I  ro 
OICDCO'— <»0— 'Ot^'^'^COOO— '01"<*^OC0'^  CO 
dOCOOOCO'^O'-'CDt^C^C^'^t^t^'^OCD"^       03 


o^icoiO'TiOic-rPcocias'^aiOOiOOa^rH^r^cot^cS'^t^crscDior-t^ 
aicDcoc^csi----'iocoTj'io      coioco^>-lOco^^^c^lOrH^-^o^-olcocsco^- 


1  CO  rl  rH 


CO  CO  O  •<?'  CO  »o  - 
CD  -^  CD  <-H  t^O 


5'^t-COCOOl-^COOCOiO 

-COC^rHlOrHCOCOO-^lO 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO      -H 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCOOCSiOC 


DOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO-^iOOCOOOOO 


OrHOOOOCOOOOOtMidOOOOCftOOOCD-^OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCOOCOOOCDaJOOOi 


OCD  O  ^  O  I 


'OOOCOOGOCOOO* 


OOO  IOCS  CS  C^  O  "O  O  tM  iQ        (M  to  o  (N  O  t 


oio'ic'r-Tco  o  rH*oo"o'^*o'oo  o  o  u^Too  rH  t^o  rH  o  t>rc^"io  lO  CO  i^  ^ 


JC^OCOOCOrHCOiO 


io  00  o      -tr  cs  rH  Tt^  c^  (N  CO 


fMC^^co^oo^^ooasOrHc^co■^lOcD^^ooo50'-HC^co"«t'u^co^»ooosorH(Nco■»*<^co^^cooiO'-HC^co^»ocD^^QOOso 

WC»^CQCOCOCOCOCOCO'^■^'^■«!t^■^'<*^TJ^TJ^-*TJ*lO»O^OU3^0«5»OlOlOuOcOCDcOCDCOCDCDCDCOCDI^^-l>.^»^•^*t^ 


3048 


MUNITIONS    INDXJSTEY 


.s 

'-+3 

a 
o 
O 


■v 

K 

ss 

H 

w 

r/i 

>~4 

P 

Q 

Oi 

?^ 

*-< 

hH 

s~ 

1^ 

c 

t/j 

Q 

<0 

i? 

c 

n 

« 

)  Co  o 


w 


fl-3*i  CO 


i^'cO 


^  a  S  f^^SSJ 


Ph 


^  00  CO  -^ 


o  t-  to  to  to 

^  t~  CM  00  CO 

■^  ^  »0  ^  ui 
^■*  i-<        to 


1      1      ■  to  O      1 

imm    1 

1  ■*  M     1 

C<IC^GOCO<iS'CCOOOCOOO'TOOOTpO»OOOCO'<*'CDO'*'^rt*COI>-CCiXi'-l 
O  r^  iocs  CD -^  CS         t^Oi  i-H -*J<  CC  i-H  00  p,  »o        Or-t 


ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo 

OOOOOOOOO^OCSOOOOOi— lOOOOOOOOOOCS 
OOOOOOOOOOOiC»OOOOiOOCMOOOOOOOCSOOCS 

o  G^co  b^o  *o  o  o  CO  yD  ^^ t^o  o  o  c^ »o  o  o  o  o  u^'o 


C  lO  i-l   i-H  CS  i-l  i-<  CO  Ci 


^00l^c^^   ■<:*<  lo  o --h  co  » 


H  CS  C5    OCS 


•S.o°S13, 


PM°.H'S'a-'' 


g  ^6 


o  d  5  t,  -g  —  = 


'0.0  a>        ^ 


^C005<NCO(MOS'-<CSGOt^<M»0'Tt<iO'-iC5CCt^iOOOCO^t-OCDOO'-i'* 

ocor-iooO'— I'^'-Hcot^csO'— iroob-oo:OTt^cDoooc^it--ocso»oco 


co(Nh-oO'^co-^OicoTr*>ot^(Noooico":>iO-^oococ^3t^co'«!*<oieDe^ 

O00r^^C0T^CSCCOO00CD-<t<CDC^C0OCSCSC0G0CCC0OC0I>.00':0'<*' 

Tt'^^c»ooa5co■^c^t•^u^Ofoc^^o6rp^^c^^^csuocdo^^c^co^oc5^-^'-H 


(N  C<1  CS  C^I  O  CD  CO  ' 


^  00         rH  rH 


l<Nt-H(NCO'M»C<C<M^'-»'*(N' 


co-^eoicb-iOt^oc^-^o-^t^cDt-cxjoooo-^cDoor-t^ooooot'-coc^ 
lo^^o6oTrcNc4odGO»o^^c»c^O'^OiOcocd^^e^ojc^ciu:>cx5oiO'^ 


*OOC<ir-O'^0l00OiO00ClCD-rM00'— 'TMOOOiOiMtCtO-^COt^-^ 


CO  --<  CD'  CD  GO  CD  "■ 


■*OiOOiOOCOOiOCDOCDI>.'— iCDTjifOiCiOC^OOO 


•  OCDCO-^CCt-H.— (COC^-'fGOCS'^cD'-tOC, 


^eN^OOI^CSfN^OlCO 


D'rt^t^Ot^'O-^COCS'— lMiO00CDO:C0-^i— lOiCO'-lTPiM-' 


S  o  o  g : 
PhoSS 


b*" 


g  o  5 

W  ft 


s  ^ 


OOOOi—fOOcDTPOt-CSiOOlCSOO'— ilOCDCDtPi— (rHcOr^»0!--GOO»0 
b-iOrj^CiOO'-HC^OO-^OJiOO'— tQlCJOOOiOCSCO-^CDCDiOiOcO'^ClOO 

ocDr^ascocD'»j*csasc:)CSr-Hooo-^oicoo:'-iO'*t*cD-*cscooooci05 


-^GOOCOCOCOOSlO^CD^OOCDOiOOS-^CO'^GO'^OOi-llOOlC^SOOM 


4u:)I>-OCOCOcD»-iOii-HC 


<NTt<05'-H00Oi-<iO05>-it^t>. 


iCi0CDCS'-<CD-^r-(^O00CD01CD'-HC0CS0SC0t^05CDC0O00»CO»-Ht>- 


i  !M         rt  '•J^CC 


s^ 


■-HMCSl-HCO  CSi-C^.-(  i-Hi-l» 


i-HiOGOCOCSGO-^O-^COOSCDOO-^C 


,    ,-C0Tt*Oi0CS00iO0100C0'— •OcDOS'^T-HOlCOiOCDC 
CDGOCS-^iQtO'^GCOCSiCCOeO»OOasTt^'-('-H--"  —  '~' 


ICNOt^^ascOO'rt^CO^ 


'-<QOco»-«'rj<f-Hi:^0(:Nc 


CM  ^^ 


1— >  »0  CN  CO 


T-H  r--  i-H  CD  (M 


CDOOOCX^t^t-^Oi'-HOiOOl^CSOOt^OO'^-^ 
O'^OiCDOI^'^Oi'-HOOGOCOCD'OUO'— '-^iOCD 
CC  CO -^  O  CD  O  IM  r-H    10  ^  <D  i-i  OS  CD  CD  t^  rH  CD 


CSCD'^'— 'CO         COtO'— 'TT 


CX)  O  h-  CD  CD  t^ 
O  t^  ■^  CD  OS  '— t 
CS  CO  Oi  t^  Tt*  00 


■-•t^      r-i- 


GOOOOr-CSOcDCOI>-'^OOCDCO-^'-iQOOiCD(NeOCDCOi— 'WCOCOOOI^tP 
cDCDC0C0CDCDiOt^t>-Tj^OC^C0C^C0CS00»O000005OC^r^C0iO»O(NCD 
O'^CScD^O00CSCDr^C0C0I~-C0-^00'^'^»OCD'^'*CS<Nu:)O(N'-'t^ 


>-iC000"^(N00O"<*^'^O'-Hi— (^-CDCD'— iC^OiOOcD'— lOO'Tt^COOOt^C^COCD 


1— I  CO  r--  CO  00 


CDOCSTP-^COOiOit^iOCD'— tCDOiCSOOCO'OCOt^'— 'CD 


t'-OOl-^CO'—'OO'-^'OCCOO-^'— iiO-^OSt^OCO-^Ot^CDt^CSOOOCD^O 
CDC^'cO'-rt-TcDt^^aTcOCDlOod'-HGO'Tl^COC^COOCD 


)  O         r-<  c-5  (N  1-t         !■-  C 


ee-co  i-« 


lO  CD  C<l  i-H  T-l  t-H  I 


^  CD         O  •-< 


Ci05-^Tt<iocoO'— ic^eo'^O'— 'cDcDOO"^-**^w:>t^O"^ 

_         j_j|^|^^^^j^_-^— ._-^.  ^^,^_..„,-. 
0  C^  CO  <-<  CD  -^  ^ 


C^iO-— t'^'t--'— 'OTt^OSCDCOOMI^CSt^COCOOlOOO 
CO  CD  00  00  OOCO  Tp  (N  ■  "  "* 


(NOOOi-HiOO^ 

lOO-^COOlt^OlOi'^OS 


C»4Tt*'—t^Tt*CD'^CO'— 'CDOOO^'^'^t^OJOTt^OO'^CDiOOsr^OiCOOO 

t^.-HCSioiocouoi-iOt-^cocoTpcD'— it--.-Hior-.r^io-H-->i-Hcocs      oo^o 


ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo 

OOOOOOOOOTfOOOOOOQ-— tOOOOOOOOOO-** 


OCDOOOOOOOOOO-^OOO 


c^ooou^oo^ooiasooi 


OTj^'co'"tCo»OOOcOCDOr^O"OOC^«^00000000»0  CDOOiO 


O'-iC^'— '•^^OOOl^CS'— i^CS        o»o 


'-H(NCO-<t<»OCDt^OQOiO'--'(NCO'2<'Ocpi>-gO^OrH£JCO^ 
OOOOOOOOCOOOOOC^ ^^^^^^^^^r^f 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTKY 


3049 


CDt>-  ^ 
-H  .-Ice 


«000000!C500iOTt* 
05  t*         r-t  C^  00  C»  lO  lO 


1— IOOC<JOi<NOit--OTt^ 

eq  t^^  Tt<  c^  o  o 


oooooooooo 
oooooooooo 

OOOCOOOOOOfO 


1— lOSC^O'MCiC^'-^iO 
t^O0000iOC5C<(l--.Xl 


T-H'dHcDCMaCOOC^t-O 


t-»t^iCt^CNCOlO?DCq 

i-^  »o  TiJ  CO  -H*  rr  lo  o  ci 


r»TriotN(N030sr^o 


t^CO-^lOGOOOr-fCDCO 
lOI^COOOi-HJOOI^ 

or^cDcoodi>ros"co«5' 


OOcDOCDOi— <O0GC'*t< 

(OOO"— <u:5a5oo»occcc> 
»-*cJod«ociooc30io 


CO  --H  iC  ■^  --r  CO  cT  of  o 

^  TP  1-H   Tt* 

cs'i-i'^cr    io«-roi"of 

CO  CO 

COCOOOC^COOOiOlt^ 

--r-^*    ,-r    cot-" 

eo»ocO(Nr-->-':ocDt— 

<©t-^i:OCOt—  CJt^O 
CO  OT  of  O  Oi"  "^  (N  oT  CD 

*-t  CO  OS  01   r-H   CO   lO 

Ol  r-( 


O'-'CDO^iO'-HOl^ 
OcOOOiOCOt-Ol'-HO 
O-^T— 'OlOSGOOi'— <oi 

O'-n'oTtdo-^'ofOGC 

*OCO«^Ci-^CO'^C^tO 

•-"O         05         CO  UO 


oooooooooo 

00030000010 
OOOtCOOOOOOJ 


00-rfOiOOOTj".-H 


o^o^co-*iocor-oo 


03  X! 

•ga 


r- iCOiOCOiO-^COCSiOOOOO-^OO-^t— COOOir-COOliCOOOIO'^iOOS 
■rf— iC0'O(NO10iOc0OCD»00:)0iC0r-^CDOC0C0iOO0iOIC0»O00t-'-'^ 

co^-co^-.oococo■^•-H(^oo^as•^GCOO:lO^.— '■Tt<r-.cDTt^cO'--'»ocDOJ040 

OOO'-^OCOOO^O^OO^O^OO^OIOIO^OI^OOO^ 


■    •    -    -    ■- 1- 1-- 1-  r- 1^  t    -    ■    ■    - 


j_,,— (OcOOOOlOltO'— •COOCOCOOJ.-HF-i'-^t— •Tt'OOO'^ 


SOIOIOIOIOJC^O^'-H.-.OJO^COOJC 


CO         <M  coco  CO  Ol 


■gg 


a  is 


°.2c      -^ 

3^^  §^~  0-2.S  3  a 
.2'S  raS  o  c.Sm  g.o2 

PHPL,PL,obma<iMOpH 


o^ 


j=*-'SF=  -,>5k2  -iS^S?;^ 


_W.  Oi,'^  ^  "^ 


H«Q 


O  S  O    -    -  so    .".,-,  r  .  r  nC 


>-^  o  S  p  p  p  " 


;£aQQS 


K5 


a  03 


qM 


3  o 


o 


S'3 


.  ho' 
h  o)  ^  c 

Qi        f-iH- 


.  go^^.2 
:Ofe£f.ar-Si 


bold 


he  o 


35  fe  »  K  ;^  O  ^ 


i?  o  a 

03-3 

o  2  oM 

^S3™ 


o  a  m-Q 


o 

5  6i£f  o 

t-1  C  ^  (D 
.  M  IS  O 
o  ""^^ 


O'-HtMCO-'t^iOCJDt^OOOO^tNi 


:cDt^OOCnO'-HC^COTfO«2t^OO 


ccroeocococococ^cccoM^-*-*'*"<j^'*'*t<-^'^'^io^ictoioiotoioio 


5»0^-^C<l^^Tt*cc-^- 


SOCJi— t— '0--iC»0^-OC5 


j^--»cc^-^i^ooiajoc<icccvioc^Oiaococcoo>or^o^-oot 


JiOC^IO-HCCGCCOI^CD— tiOi: 


-Ot^^-"0»005»OCiCD^OCOOO 


O— '0<Mr~0-H00^00^00C-1C-1^T-»^0000(NC^0^0 

r^  t^  r~  r^  l^  I-  r^  r^  1^  i^  t^  r^  r^  t^  t^  r^  r-  l^  r-  t^  t^  t^  r^  t^  r-  t^  r-  r-  r~- 

CO  CM      »-<    CM    T-i  T-H  CO        OJ  CO    CO  CO  CM  CO  CO  CO    CM 


3-^ 


>>o  o 


o     .  


;2;<;2;p5C;i 


J  3t3  o-p^       «.3-g  fe.S  g  g^  o^  3  S-S  M.- 
:  b  »^  S.t;  «x:  03^5  <3jq5    ■  o^  S  <s  =a  CH 

;m«QPHpH:H;ortgs«ogmm^>?Hi-imo 


o 


"•-  bS  ra"^ 


6C  O   1 

CO  < 

"  I- 


42  <y 


o 

>^  bjj_ 

'^  (-it; 


""O  DC 


S3^«_ 

«>^ag^ 


^CMCO'^'»0<Dt^00050FHCM'cO'^»C^r>^  QOOJO^'cMCOT^iiocbt^ 


3  0^  o;^ 


08 

OJ  03  "«  Ol  <© 


iCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCM 


s; 


3050 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


CO   3 


1— icocC'-Hior^iooioioc^oot^iccDOooaih-*!j*"<}'ai'^co«;--Ht-(NCj 


0»0.-ta>GO<N'*tOOO'-HC^).-HC 


SM  t^  h-  CD  C 


00.-HOO--''::000-HO'-tF-iO^^OO'-'0'N^(M05— 'O' 


»0  O  lO  »0  "J^  lO  »■ 


;iO»C»OiOOiOOiOtOiO*OiOiO»OiO»OlO»Oi 


t-  r-  r^  t^  1--  t 


i^  i>-  r-  t^  t^  i^  t 


P^;C 


.9oo 

U    )-•    t^ 

OOP 


g  O  P  ?3  >>■      '^  " 


S  l-l  r"  1^  ' 


-2  ,.'^  a 


i'^  ^ 


fl-C. 


liiiPSi 


'3  Z'o"- 


32'ohJ>t>te'c8Cl 


<lMP^;fflWPQ;SM00wOMOMO2;;z;oS 


i^  3  o 


Co 

—  o 


Oo 


5S 


^-°-^  30     '^  ^ 


2<, 


gOPn 


pH  M-ijJO'^ 


3  °  ao 


3s  a  >> 


•9P  2  J;;  «  ^      hr«-- 

eeMPHMHOPgHP 


eqO 


2gS 

a'oQ 
2.S 


2S  a^3  : 
o  ^  w  o  ^  ^ 

*-■   K   rl   "^^  i 


'  >iO  o  d 


o  03 


^-sss^so^^s 


t3  S  cuS^  P-^ 


C50— <c^coTt<io<X5r'.oociO'— 'CsccTt^iocor^cocsO'-'C^co-^iocot^oo 


OOOiOSOiOSOiOiOSOSOCiOOOOOOOOOO 


cooO'-'cor^(N«riGOt^(NO'^ooiooo-*fCMOO»o«^aiC^cs^r 


T3  Q^ 

c3X3 

■ga 

02  d 


-Tf^GOOOOTj^t^Oit^-— 'GOCCI^OCOCOO-- 't^-— "OOOCOOlOCSTt* 


oot^csocoo'-'oor^cooooo-^oooo-^ 


KM-HOsOi'-'CO-T'O'-i 


^^o^^oooocoo^c^oc^O'-^^ooc^o^o  —  oo*-".— tCO 


I0»0t^»0i0»0  0»0i0i0i00i. 


r^  1^  t^  h-  r--  r 


t--  r^  r-  t-  t 


3  10  O  O  "J^  tO  ^c  >. 


)  iC  iC  »0  >0  10  lO 


COC^CN'-hO'— 'OOTfC^t^(MCJOC<»OOCOOO'^'-HOOCt^CO— 'OCCOO 


CS  CC         C^  CS  C^  C^  (N  rp         Tf<  CO  CO  CO  CC  CM  C^  CO  CO  CS 


M  (N  CO  (N  <N  (M 


o 


.aj3 


Ow3.£ 


03  3  ra^i^  0 


—  tri-^       crt>Q-i_rL*0303OOii;'^o       ^^aj>oa)ac3 


;<^p 


feo£fe:z;raStf&H;§WoPPooP^^a2;POMO 


tn 


POP 


C3 

03 

O  03 

0.2 

:SJ3   03  O   >- 


Or'? 


-p^-ijoooao 


-j  O'  U  w  U  ^ 

;^<5  o^  a 
■'    :  P  »  fe  t. 


,    ,0    ■  „ 

o  o„  >.o 

_     00  «  po 

_  J  0)  S)^  ir  o 


0°3p3 


=3 

>>°0^  C     .0  O  c   ^o  Mt 

9'T3xa*'®"i>»;p<i'p- 
C^w-P-P-p-p^-P  °^: 
P^-^t^f-'H^WOP- 


0> 


o      ^ 
OJ3  03  a-^  3ja  Oil 
OE-'P;?m«1HMeH 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3051 


=  fc  §  s  ^ 


w 


I  «  «  o  S 


>2  o  tj 


5  -^(i:;  o  53 


ij  ot^ 


£  c' 


O 

lO 

00  CO 

O-Tf  CO  to 

,_) 

NtO 

>co 

■fll 

to  to 

00^O<  -fll 

I-* 

^ 

S 

t^CM 

o> 

c^^oo^-Tt^^-c<l^cOTt^coc^o»ClOCS^-|^^occo:a5>-^Tt*TJ^cDtOlO^^^■<^(^^ 


HOiiO-^O     |r-H>.cCiO(MiOCO'<^CCCO<NCOt^ 


r-.(M  CM     I    .-H  ^ 


T-^         CO  i-<         CCCN'*  rH 


^r^'^cioQ'OOooc 


JCOCOCOOOO-*^-— iOlh-OQ0r-(Mi-H^Tt^CCCD05iOC 


-  00  CO  lO  ---  I 


■H  Oi  O  CO  <— t  f-  -^  C 


ir3CitiCSi0C000'-HU0(X:pG0CMr-HaS'-Ht^.-Ht^t--C0C0TtH00OC0C0c0C0CM0iC001'--* 

rC,-HGOcc?ofocdo»-i"io-^MiOfO(»u^ot-^r-Tio 

CO_  C0C0C0'-<e0i-tI>-C0T-l»0_CSO         0(NCDiO         Oi-100CO^«3'-<OOOOCO 

^^-"^  i-H  (N  C^  --H  T-1  COCM  CO  CD  r-H  1-1  tP 


SOOOOUDOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 

300C50 

1  05  00  o  o 


ooooocooooooooooooooooooooooooooo 

OOCDOO-^OC'OCnoOOiOOOOOOOOOiOOOOO-"*'^^'^ 


OOClOiOt^OiOr 


iirDTM'->:oi>-TpO'Mt 


^OiOO-^«000»OiOOOO(NO^O*OOCOasOi 


r-tCO  1-H  r-t  I-H 


'    ^  iS    J3    Cd    t'    ^r- 


CJOOOCOCOOO'***CO'— iOOC35C^CCOO'-<-<:t4'«*t^O':Dr-OCO'— lOO"— '^OOC<)COOO 
(j5,_,Tft-O0C<ICD00^'-'^CDb*CO'— 't^C^^COO-^OiOOJCOiOC^-^COCOt^ 

>r-i"^"^oicOOiOt^-<4<CD(N'--5'-HOcoOiOTf' 

-^    .    .    ,  (^^ 


CSrHC<ICM'-iCOi-(i-(WCOfOCOCMC^C^CMCOCS{NCNTPCSlCMCMi-H-^COC^C^-<*^'<*^<N 


Ph    .s  rt'- 


CiC0(NTf*T:t^00C0OCNC01:^CMO00r^'-HCDTt*O'^i0O00a)G000a50iC0t^CMc0  -g 

O'-HOTt^OOGOOO'— tC0TtiI>.O"*C0'— iiOt>»CJ010it--iOr^OOGO^t^'--<COt^C^1CO  "2 

GOCM*•--^cooi^>^c4cM"coocoo■^■^oicd>-^■-^•^coodt^•--3o6coo^^o  o 

cDCMcoGOCMiococS'-HCO'«*^eooocMTt'05'<j^c^CMiOcOTt<cDC^ooO'<t't--o>-^'*"^  ca 


lOOJ'^COOOCCCDOCDO-^OO'— 'CO^OC'lOtNCMCOOcOC^CO'-'O'— ir^cooc^     J5 


loo-^oiOTf'— '4ooo»o»-Htocc'CSGor 


otor^t^ioor^cMCsCMCNiocMcoTt^ 


ooitocooti'-'t^r^fO'— 'CS»ccO"»t*0'Mr~-aiu^'-" 


I'-HQO'^OtNOOcO 


COi— «CSTt^»-.0>-«.— iCIt^iOiO-^COCOCOrrC^CMCOt-COCOCO'-HGCtD-'J^CSOOGOCS 


oioscct--r-toooocooO'— iOb-OTt<ooaiOh-'M^oiociooc^'— I'— "coooci 


oococo-— 'coc5-n*0'^c<ioo5cocM-^oO'-HTjicooor-'— 'C5C 


OCS  lO  Oi  '^ 


CO»Ot^CMiO»OCOCDOOOCO(Mai-^CTiOOCCOi'-H'— •C^'-'QOl^CMCit^O'^CDiOiO 

o<Ncorocoa3cccMC^icDioococoocococMcooocO';ooocO'-H»ooocMO«:>ooio 


3  <D  T?  .S  o 


H-fiOOOiOOOtNcOCMOOO-— i'^iCiCC5(NiOCC'— i-HOiOOt^OlOOOCOO;OCOOO 

cv?cor-cor--iOMeoo":)ioooiOQO<n"tiOi"^cs'^aiOtDcDiocooioO'-i<MOi 

r-iOO-— lOCOCOOOOOOOiOi— iu0TPOt^l>'C0CS:Ci'^O-^-<:r'cD0SC^tOU^C0C0CM0i 

c^fQdi:ooc^'^-^(Nl-^^TiI■cccOTt^"l^oM■^od^^co»OlOOl 


lO  (N  (M  CO  t^  r-H  iC  Ol         OO  (N  ' 


COC^lCDt-H         CO         CMCCOCO         CO'-S^C^ 


I  ra  p  <^ 
'  o  o  « -^ 


coc^h-r^'— <ioooo5'Oococs"^coo5t^»oc<iTj<ocsaj"^oo<x>'^'^-^oc^t^t-- 


■'r--»OOOCO!NCOOiO«D>— .05C 


^-^OOO-rPCOOiOOlGOt-^iOi-HCO-^'-HiOCO 


5<;OOiTt<-^ODCDTfiCCDOOOiOCO»OCDr-t--C005COt-»OS>OTt<r-HOOOO'-< 


i.-iCO'-iCO'-t'-i'-''*         COCOCSCNCOCOCQCMC^-^C^C 


Tti  T}<  CO  1-H  Tp  tP  CM 


^■^ 


ocMOiiocMTt<oo"^^0'^"^cooocMeocot--r^'^'— "OiOicDioosi— <.~<i--.eO'— t 
i-HOicococ-ico-^<oooiO"^cO'^t--cor^'r^r^Oi^'0'— ii— 'oO'^Dt^'— <cit^oc<i 
t-^cS'-HCMiocio^ot-iocM'XJCScocMThCMccO'-^'OC'"    ■  ■■'    --" 


)  t^  r^  .-<  ^  ' 


(rO'-H'-HOiTPt^iocMCMt->.h-.co»ooi»ofOTt*CMcDr-"^CMooc^icMocco      h-b-o 


CO  GO  CM         CM  .-H 


CMt^-ioo-^ocoocoio-— 'Ocooi'^CMoeor-cocoiooiOiOsr^O'^Tt^'^r-.o 

OlCM-^Tj^OO^GO^O-— •CMCOOlCDiOOi'^OCOr-CO-^'^OSCM"^.— 100'— losr^os 

•-<t^i--00'— "loocj'-HOCMTroo'^^'-Ht-'^^oo^ccMas'-HioTf^O'— t-^cocoos 

tC  coco  OCOod --H  '«f^COCOCO^-^TJ^'^lH■coO -^M  I-H  CM  2  ^        lOrHCO        coaTTjT 


lO  .-H  ,-H   ' 


JOC-H         .-(  00 


'-«coo50iCMoaioo»ooo-^T-Hr^i-,wrt^coGO'-HCMi-Hor--_ 

iOiOCO'— '•^WOiOt~--^CMTt<t^'^00CMiOC0»OC0C5Ot-iO'; 


CO   r-H   I-H   CM   -^ 


CM  »-H  CO  CM         00         I-H '^  CO  CM         00  00  i-l 


■t~-.OOCD:0CDC0CD'^i0CMtOi0-Hi000»OG0OOt--CDi0C0a5'^'-HC0C001 


Tt*iOT-HOO^t^OlO'^'-HTt*r--Oii 


:(u:iCMoooo5CM^ 


00'-H<:0C00ii0'^'^ii0.-HtJ<wc0C0OCMc0i-Ht^C0'-tC0--HC0>-HThOC0CMCM00iO 

lo  o  r^  oi"  CO  "0  00 'TjJ"  Tp  cm' o  cT  oT  cm' 00  00  cm" o  oT  CM  o  c4"  CO  .-^ 

lO  "-H        t'.  CM  ■-3^  CO  00  i-H  O  QO --H  OO  CO '-' O --H  O  CM  O  Oi  I-H  Oi  f-*  CM  CO  Oi  CO        CD  iC  cO 


cocoosioco-^t^aiOoococO'-HO-HiOTj<0'-'r-r^oocoii0050t~^ooicD-^ 

i:0r-»O'-H»0--HC5C»Oc0rpOi-Hi0r'-C0C0'-''-H:0CMOC750iO«^0000Ot^i0O 
Oi0t^'0aS'^'-Ht--0000iOCMCM«O0iC0l^0it0-^00OC0i-^'-HOO0i0lc00i'O 

■^-"-^odoOoO'^'CMO'CMOrod'^-^odcDCDC^fcO-^COodcr-^O 

_._-,  ,^__ —  CD-^CMfHCOOi'^COCMr'-'— lOOt^COiOCO^Or-O'^COfOCO'-H 


Oi  »0  CM  00  -^  C 


f-Hi-H  CM   -^  .-H  t 


CO         1-H  .-H  »0  CM 


CM  00  CO  I-H         coo  I-H 


OOOOOOOOiOOOOOOQOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


OOOOOcOOOOOOOOiOOOOOOOQOOOOQOO- _ 

oocooo^ooocDoooooooooooooooooocnooo^ 

iOTj<.-tCDt'-Tt<OMt--^»0         OC3CM»OCMI--05C-»iOCMCMC0CM00CMiO         C00"0 

^  --H  CO  I-H   r-«  f-H  rH  ^  CO  t^  CM  TT   CM  O 


i-HCMe0-^'OC0t~-C0a5O'-HCMC0-^»0C0t>-000SQ'-'CMf0'«t*^^C> 
i-Hr-ll-Hf-H^Hl-lT-Hi-Hr-li-HWCMtNCMCMCMCM 


CD  1^  00  Oi  O  <-!  CM 
*'  CM  C<i  CM  CO  CO  CO 


3052 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


a> 


J  CTS  ■'^  <D 


o 


i.92'3  - 

;  "  2 .  -  o  S 
; 2  S  Cora 


■i-^  to 


*"  §  S    ~ ""  m  ^ !;; 
So  at:  3  «  g  s-- 


.2  're  13  '^  "  ■" 


o  H 


ti  2  p  <D-^a^ 
*  «  §  >  5"^ 

P-l""   o  S  o 


o  "  S  est;-' 


Ji  o  « 


fl  G  03 


J2  8°^ 


ooo  cow 

r-(  (N  .-H  lO 


IC  (N  CO  t^ 
t^  »0  05  t-- 


OO  O  CO  o  o  o 
ooooo  oo 

CO  O  -^  t-*  00  o  o 


Tf  O  CO  (N  OS  O  iC 


^  00  CO  C^  '-'  o  o 


COC*  CN  1-1  IM 


kO  O^i  t^  CO  O  CO  Oi 


'Tf-  M  CO '■a*  CO  o  o 
I^  (N  W  i-H -«J«  (N  CN» 


(M  03  CO  oi  o  r-  O 
05  CO  Tf  00  --H  O  (M 


(N  00  "O  ^  rr  o  -^ 
»0  (N  (N  --H  (M  — '  —( 


Ol  (M  CO  O  OS  O  ^ 
t^  OS  -^  Oi  CO  Ol  CO 


oo  O  lO  lO  OS  '-<  "* 


CO  CO  CO  iC  00  lO  o 
oo  00  ''^  (M  CS  t^  '02 

■^  CO  r-  iM  CO  00  CO 


00  t^  "^  CO  O  I>-  OS 

^  iO    ^    .-H  OS 


>d  CO  O  OS  t^  O  "^D 
(M  t-^OO  00  kO  O  O 


r^  lO  CO  OS  -— t  CD  -^ 


>:*<  OS  CO  ■— •  r~  O  00 
r^o  '^  o  OS  -^  ^ 

OS  OS  CO  Tt^  CO  rH  Cvl 

o'os   i-T  .-Tco*" 


to  t^  w  1-^  00 
OS  '^  -^  o  »o 


OS  CS  lO  ■*?*  OS  O  CM 
l>  oo  -*  CO'^  -^ 
1— «  CO  CO  00  CO  --<  CO 


O  Cq  C^  CD  lO  lO  00 

CO  OS  OS  t^  CM  -— I  ■— ' 
■^  CM  O  CDO  O  CO 


OS  t-^  lO  Tt<  CO  OS  »o 


CM  l>- O  OS  O  CO  t^ 

t*  oo  O  00  O  >— '  .-. 
CD  coo  CO  O  OS  -^ 


lo  OS  o  CO  lo  oo  '*' 

»0  CO  CM  CM  CM  00  --« 
^CM    <-i    --i  00 


SOOCMOOO 
O  O  CO  O  O  O 
00  O  O  O  C^»  CO  o 


■  oo  CM  CM  CD  I 


*^.9 

Q  o 

O         c^^ 

CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  00 


<  lo  00  r~*  00  OS 


C3  ^ 


CO  3 


•^C'iuocD»/:;iococot-i-ir-Tj<cMOco_- 

•-Hc;scoocD'~''tfco-^Qor-.'-i»ooscooO'-« 

OiOCC'CO'^CMCOCOCDCOCOOOCMCOOO--  -  - 
COOOCOOO<NOOO— 'OO  — '-'-hO-^O 
lCiO'OiOiO»OtO»0»0»0»>OiOiO»0»~  ""  "^  "~  '^ 

lO-^CCtQ.— iCMCMOi— •O-^CO'— 'COticOC 
rH(NCMCMMCMcOC0         CJC^l'-tCMCMCMCM 


os»-<  d  lo 

—  —  CM  I^ 

--  -^  »o 

O  -^  o 

bo  CO 


^5 


3  g-d    1.2 -2    1    ,'    I    1    !  d    1    1    I  a '"'a 

3    .  a;  O  ,  ■•  0)  C;  ^  —     ,    ,   ."  !=  -2  iJ'  o  d 

=^r°^^SkOO'^brS5=32«   bt—  <^ 

'— =35°S5o-^'^oj§-==»h53C2o 


a 

a     -g  c3- 

S    O    »  OT 

OJ3^  o 


QO 


e-e< 


^^1 

b£-- 
3  S 


I  o  on 

tOw°o  M  a5  ~  3 
So 


as 

■2  a 

.  «  o 

O  3^ 


5  Sm-"'5'S-2 

.spools  t^oSe- 


1— "C^C0Tr^»OC0t^00OsO'-'CMC0"^»OCDt--0rj05 
CMCMC^CMCMCMCMCMCMCOCOCOfOCOCCCOCOCOCO 


OOOOC^O-HiOTf^iOCOiO-^r^  —  COCMOOCOiOt^ 

c^t-cDr--r-oooococo»-<oco-^cs-^'— "Oooooos 

—  iCr-.-.:p(MCOCOOOOSiO-^iOCMcDCOOS— tiOCOr^ 
00i-''-HCM(M0'-'0-H,-.— .-H-Hr^r-^CMCMOO 

00COOCDCM1— lOi— '^oooor— oocjoC'COi— 'coto^o 


.•a O    .  tcS S  «-S,  03  gZ  s  c.=  -c '^ '-'  :^ •& 


3  bt 
— '  fc- 
>  3 


A^^-'J:-'^.,-;    WWi.^.^    TO   t,    ^    TOAh    O^^    '''^    ■^.-. 


>> 


no  2" 


•020 


o  3    .  >,  ftO 


•e<=l^SB^sl 


.2  2  £  ">  o  SS«5  a  2'^  0^2  n  3  «  o 


»-HC^mrJ'»0«Dt^0005O^H(NC0**OCDr^000iO 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 


3053 


r-,1  -*j  ^  ■'-'  o  tr  -;  *_j  r^ 


(M  (N  Tt<  iC  Tt*  O  CO --H  w  CO     < --H  Tt; 
l^  t-H  Oi  O  M  h- »0  CD  (N  CD      I  CO  C<l 

oci-H»r5c^cd"^c6cci>^(>i    'ooco 


CC  (M  C^  00^  ' 


-So' 


1.  O  05 


C^liOOiOSCDiOiOO'— 'CacOOOOt^'MC^t-C^JOTrOSOiCSTfCSC^-^^OlCD 


cDO00Ui^-C^O»O0lOCMC<»Oh-l--."rt<c 

<N  CO  t>  C^        lO  Tt* '-1  CS  •-(  1— I  CO  •— '  GO  O  CO 


^— i-nHO-^r^-n'OioocoO 


C0t031CDC0-^0lO»0OC 

c^:ocoaoococ<)- 


-OCiOr^CDCS'^OOC 


-  cc  '^^  t'  oi  r 


:■*  o  ^  5i  t^  -^  ' 


oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo 

OOOOOOOOOCOOOOOOOiOiOOOOOOOOOOOO 
OOOO-— <OOOOOOOOt--C^OI"^ait^OOOOOOOOOOO 


00000»000»0000»00i— it^COGOcC'^OOOOOO'^OOiOO 


I--r-(iQCOT-.»OOCOO»OOOCO^'— ICDC 
■■  CO  CD         CO 


0:iO'-'.-*Ou:iCMiCrHC^CMC^ 


Ph      .5  "S  -a  "^  .S  o 


0^03-*OC<l<:DOiOOO^HOOOaOC6000C^^HCOOOOOOI^t^^H^HC<l 

c^o6cot-^co-^.-Hoio^iOoiTi'C>oeoeD"6'*c5r^'^o6^c5coi^^t>-c^ 

(M,-IC^,-(IM(M(Nr-(,-l,-l,-l,-ITO(NC<l(Ni-l(NIM(Nr-lC>)Cl>-<C^<Ni-li-lrH(M 


;os 


'S'^^ 


OO'^-rt'-Hi— 'GOiOCSCOOCaOt—  IM'— lOO-^'-CCDOOiCCOlTl^CDC^OO^OiOO 
iCi— lC^CD00l>•a0^O■^^^■^-C•^00G0OC0"^^t-C^T-l00lOG0OcDG0I-01CDCD 

0'--coai-^05Trco^-^ol>■r}5I^IcDcoI>^ccrJ5oclOO>oco"lO^ 
t^c^-^'-HC^cocooit-<Ni-iiococO'^-*i-iMTt<c^rHt^co'^cO'«*«'«*"-^c^oa 


Ph 


oic^ai»0'-*cociC^O'-HooocO'^oa5  0iC'i05t-^ccr-oot^or^aoa>co»o 

OoOO-^'Ot^oOiC'MOcD-^roOOCO'^COCDOi^iO-^OiCOt^C^cDOt^ 

oiaioici■^c^^od"rt■a5^^^^cocolOw-Ho;Mico■^ooiccort'C*^•-Hlooi 

C^,-tcOi-iC^CO(N(Ni-Hr-t,-((NiCC^C^'*r-HCOCOC^C^(N'^'-iC^COC^i-irtC^ 


^  n  a  »°2 

oj  n  S  cs  -e-' 


O^O00CCt^»OO!>^0100'^00-<S'O"0OC^OC^1O0CC^Jt^'^CC(N0iC30O 


C005(M'0-^Oi'^-^r--0(MOO-^I>-Tt<'^OOOt^t-^l^CiOO'-*»D»OCD05(NO 
O<M(M00GC00C0-^OCDC<l':O.-HOi-HOt^C^r^C0'rf<i0C0C0C^t~-t^00'-HC^l 
•^OlT-ioocDCXi-^t^COOOC^fNOiOOTP'^OOiCOOOOGOiO'-Ht'.'^CO-^Oi 


— '  -.^  rt<  ic  CO  oi  a>  ^ 


T-H  CO  CO  CO  CO  1— (  i 

.-1  C^     !-( 


1  CO  Tt^  -rf  oc  cc  ( 


SOO'— ir-ft^-ooOCOTfrfCit-CO 


■<  CD  O  -^  •-*  ^  rH  (N 


o  o  o  g- 


Tf  GO  GO  CO         '(t*  CD  OC  h- ■*  ai  CO  (N  ''^i  O  00  00 -— '  (N  I 


I  t^  lO  GO  CO  IC  O  ^ 


'aioc^aiOiOOt--cocDco^t^i— 't--OTf>— ic-ioir^^O'-Hio-^uoQC'-H 

.       .       .       -OS 

T-^io^^o    .lO^cooor^-^oO'^ocoTft-.iOQoo'-iC'OOicc^-rt-t^coaiOico 

(>*         COi-tiOC^»C^C1r-*.-t^.— (CO--i!NcO^C^C^'-'.-<^CO'-'T-4(N.-i  CI 


CDIM00CO( 


coa:0'^»oaiQOr^"t;"^oo-^t--i^cic^cor--coco»o»or-.oo'Nco^'— 'iot- 

"2CDGOt--COCCiM(MC:r^Tt<OC--COir^O(M^'#OTt^CNC5'-tcDCO-^0:000 
-,rM,~/^<•f-l^(^CC(NI•-0"^'— iOaiOiOO-^air--r-(CDCOOO'— '■^OOOiOOCD 

cD"cDDdco*GOc<fc>focoooco'*:j*"coorc^-^r-I"i-Hc^c^ra:~c^         ^ 


Excess- 
profits 
tax 

(5) 

$30, 884 

""9,"362' 
299 

""5,"706" 

37,  729 
6,138 

38, 877 
19, 424 

1,  ,540 
8,925 
8,810 
2,916 

14,  209 
47, 144 

38,  291 
2,777 

16,  690 
1,980 

2,  750 
1,175 

18,919 
1,508 
1,325 
7,852 
1,922 
394 
332 
4,480 

In- 
come 
tax 

(4) 

$7,  749 

269 

1,518 

375 

235 

1,269 

8,899 

2,089 

14, 828 

8,650 

908 

3,259 

1,207 

1,021 

3,820 

6,408 

15,  732 

640 

3,253 

723 

1,395 

450 

2,478 

1,310 

837 

1,581 

924 

597 

473 

1,207 

CDG0<NaiCiQ0<N-H(CqT^O(N00'<?^C0CDC0iOOO<MTPioa5t'00'MOr^t> 
C005010-— "tOCDt^-— iCOt-.iCiM-^-^iOai-^C^-^OOCCO-^OOOC^OO'-'O 
0'^OiOO:OOOOi003CD'*Ci05003'*"*CTiOOiCD(NCO(N(NcOco<NO 

O -^  lO  CD  CO  O' CD  O  CD --T  CD  CD  00  OT  GO  CO  O  CO  O  TjT  ^ 


CMGO-^GOCDi-lCDC^' 


t^  lO  O  .-H  t^  r-t  CM        CD  <N  rH  CO  i-<  1-1        <N 


CO'^fiOCDGOOiCD^iOOiCOCiTfOll^-fMCD^CTiiOCDCDOOCOOOOOOOOTt^tO 


iCOlTt^-— <t--iOTfCOi 


•  iC  GO  — '  00  C 


coocD'-H'— 'Oioooo'or'-O 


■^cD»ot^aiOoio»oooc^ojc^cDoait-oo>jocMcoco4CC^oococO'-"'— 'O 


^C^01COiC(MCOt^Cl""*C 


-Cr.  00— '--•OOOCC  CDOlOOCOCS^f^'CDCOiO 


iOCMOOCOT-iOO'^CDGOiCOlOO»OI>-aOt---^COi— «»OC^)C1COtP<1_    _    , 
>0  CD— '-^CiC^I  C^C0iO(N»-H        !—(»-«.—( 


oooooooocoooooooooooooooooooooo 

OOOOuttOOOOOOOOOOOOOiOOOOOOOOOOOO 

—   —  —  -oocoooooooo 

f  0~  O"  O"  O"  O'  M''  o"  o"  ^  o 


OOOOoOOOOOOOOOt-CO-HOt 


IM  O  O  O  '^  O  < 
I>- (M  lO  CO  <-"  lO  C 


:ooooo^cncMOO»- 

DOiOOOOiOr-tcO'-HOrfOTj'f 


■iO^DiMiO'-HCSCMM 


^-tC^eC^iOCDt^OOOSOi-iCSeOrPWSCDt^COOiOi-HCMCpTf^ipcDt- 


8^^^ 


3054 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


o      *^      ^       o 


O  t^  (M  «CO 


Tr  o  in  ^  ^ 


■«<      I  CO      ■      lOO 


Ci  CO -rf  (N 'Tj^    •'Ji    (M  Oi  en  1-1  00  t^  O  C^  (N  CO  t- --H  r-«  (N    CO -rf  CC  CC  CO  O  O' 
C^    i-H  r^  r~t  CO  r-1       r-l         I        CC  --<  i-« 


Ot^-HOlOO^COOOO'^C'JOl'^COCiCM-     _- 


r^oCiC^'!Oif:»cccGCoo-T'iCO 


■HOioo^coooO'^C'Joi'^cociCMC^criCJr-focct-!; 


■  r-  ^  r--  GO  !r>  y::  ^LC^  ■-' 


^^        i-H        -^JiiC,-*        i-iCDC0ClC50>C0C^Cl 


6  «^ 


OOOOOOOOCOOOOOOOO'OOOOcrCOOOOOO 
iCOOOCoOCrOOOOOOOCOOOOCrOi-t'OC'OOCOO 
CT=OOCiOcOOOOC;OOOcC'C:000000'0  00000»0  0 

€^.^.-,..._-..-.^--.-_^-. ' 

Oir:>0:t0<NOOOOOOiO00OOOOOOOii";CCSs0OC^iCO^ 
O        ''J^  CS  CO -^  C^  O  !C  CD  »0  .-H  OS  O  O  O  »0  »0  iC  C^  CO  CO  O  f-i 

^  (M  CS  O  -<*  i-" 


S'^.S 


"S  o 


lo  »o  00  ooo  ^  CO  o  to  ■*  Oi  >c  C5 1^  •*  oooi  ac  I    — 

1^  r^  ci  o  cc  r-.'  c*^  ic  ci  CO  t^  lo  ic  c^i  iri  cr-  'O  >o  » .  .     .  .    _  _    .  .     , 


C^-^OOOiOcOGiOir^— 'CscO'— ii— 't 


:■  c:;  ic  r-  oG  ac  i: 


I'-  lO  in  CD  oc  CJ 


io-^Tjtt^eooi'^coi:DOQCoiO"^oicc-Tt'coc>c^»ci>-ooTriccocvi>.i-c 

C>'-5eoco^i-'C^T)-c^«6Ti-'^c^i>^c^iTj^u-:?coirieoo-^ocdiccO'^M 

-- —    *~    ~~ -"    ■■  *~  ~    ■(  CO  CO  » ■■         ■ -' '    '• '    '- 


lOiOr^C^Tti-'J'CD'NC^CC'+'W^^O^COCOiCC^-^.—  rHCDC<HNr"-iMt>-CO 


oj  ^  (i>  "*^  ii  *^ 

^  ^  fi  l'£^ 
<»  C  >::  >  ^'- 


r-  CD  -^  b~  Tj*  <: 


JtMOCl'**— '-^t--l?40CiOOCOC^OcrOOCOGCCOCCTl< 


^-co^-QOc^<^^c^l-»loco■^c^^--^-■^cOGoa:lO-#'— 'CM^OiO-OTpiccoos 


OC^^— 'i^oc^— 'CO-*  —  ciooccot~-c 


■OlO-^CC-'COCOOOD'-'-r^C^ 


«O'*CO^^CDC0C0(NC0C^.-<COC0C0WC0COf-^C0C0r-'--.r^iOC^(MC^C^--i 


fc-T^S"' 


■^»-4'^'r4GCi^CSr--CO(MOrt"iOCOa:>CMC:XtCC 


I  00  o  t^  rM  O  C^l  »C  -rt* 


'*criGCCCOCOCO'-^o6cC'-3o^O^CO.--'cr'cOC'5h-^'-H",-^ifi^CDC^ 

'       "       '       "■  "       liOr-iCC'lCCCO^r-'.-'I^CCOlC^COOOCi 

1-t  fCC*  T-!  CO'-' 


-r^c^Trr^coco(N'^oocsiociiOr-ic(Mcccou:)r-'.-'r 


.5  O  TJ  .2  02 

o  o  S  1  x? 


CO  CO  t^  ic  -^  --  r 


.  c^i'COoooo-^'^coicc^iO'— ooo•*ooc^t^c-^t^^Cir^co^-' 


'coo5C^c^c-i^Gri^cc--Hcocrc4C-.'. 


CO-^CCOOiO-;t^010cOOGC"^00^:)cr.  OClCCOO^OOCiCOCOO-'J'OOOCM 
CO  w  CO  r^^'c^*"-^'  ^irz^isScSrO^i^cC^zSt-^ZCCC^CCcS^-^u^zSt^-^ 


a  cr^  c  ^ 
o  o  o  g  — 


OcDaJ01iOCOTt<ail~^OOCiOO^'-'CD«r:CDa!iCcD050'— h-Cl?Ot^'<*<QO 
C0OOOOOTt<^Tf»-(O":)C000^-^C0t~-i-lCDCC0S0i0ii-'l0<Ni-i0i0» 

5io.-Mc^co»o^oioO'«jic5  rfc^Tt'co'<e-r^cD*-«'4d»diocO'*-^i-Ico»ri 


CO        i-lr-'-^C^CS»CS|C^C^r-iC^CMCOCSCO'*-^CSN 


CO  1-H  l-<  1-1  .-I 


o5 


Tf.-y-rt'o:c^t--CT!Oit^ocooococo'^r-'(ro»-<orc^---'C^occ;-^c^iocDi-.'--< 
c^t-cor^QOt--— 'cot^tococ^cDCSOooc-icDOor^t^cor^cr''— <»o-^t— 

C^)t^(N'<f»0C0Wt>O!DOGC'^aSTPCC'*C^'CQC---iMC0(NC^'-<f0aiGC'— c^ 

r-T     .-Ti-H  CROC  i-r-^  l^'-^c^cc"^^  r"-*  •-'"-- -t^ic  CO  c^  co'c^  ^ 


WGO 

—.GO 


cocD^>oc^c^o:>Tt<.— '— 'cot^t— (NTrcoo-^ 

(M'TfOOfNGOGCO'-'COOStcCNCCOi— (N0»0 
r-00lO0:C^t--r-CDC0Q0O<NCC.-'r-iO001^ 

c»  cd' ■^  GO  "^  CD  .-T  lo  CD  ■^' oT  i-T  |C  tP  O  i-T 

^  r^  CCC^    — '    CO  ^ 


CD  30  rt^  C^  CD 
CL^  CO  O  (N  Ci 
I-  Tj*  in  ^  CD 


4i  p  ^ 

O  C  rt 


ClCO-^CCtOCM-^t  _- 

-— 'GOCOiOCOCiOiGOOS'^^HCil:—  t 


-r-t^iocoGOcoc^t 


j^GO—i'-^t'CCiCCOCMC^I'' 


r-.r-trC'-'Ot--'-lCS 


■^or^cDTt<c<ioit-iO'^t~»»-'GOccoicr— '■— tc^'-'t^-HuT'CCoC'-t'^coioCM 


lO  .— t  O  CO  C^  05  c 


:oi^i:NcDtDcoo-<r'^aot^cO'— wco«305'-'coc^co 


10SC0-Ht^Tj4t--OOt^CDt^t^'-i'-*'—  <Mt^'-'COCS-^iOW;cO'>i<CDN*0 

CO  as"  CO  CO  iro  ^  CO  t>  r-T  00  CO  "^"  CO  go' CO  o  co"  .-H  f^  err  c"  cd' CO 

£^I^        ^  ^  C^  CO        lO  CS  O  ^  CM  (N  O  CD --- ^  CO -<*' .-•  t-t 


>  P.2 


O-^OOO^CMOCiOi'— ''fOCicOOCCCOO'^C^'— OlOOOt'-CSGOOlO 


SCJlC^Oir-iO-^h-.-^! 


cooo»oo— ^C^lOO 


OOSCOCDOiCOOcOCD     -CO^r-CDOOCOC^t^COCOCOOOCMiCU^t-O 
^GO»-il>-I>-COO(MCOCOGOGOcDaiOOCOCMt— CDCOrt^CO        '-'GOC^COCOCO 


ooooocnooooooooooooooocrcrooocooo 

tOOOOOCMOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOC^OOC-OOOOO 
CnOOOiOcoOOOOOOOCDOOOOOOO^tOOOOO^OO 
«9^ -.      ^--.     >.---.     -_-     - 

O^C^-'rOiOirrCOOCiO'OJOOOOO'OCaiOC^IiOOiMiOOtO 
O        TfCMCM-^tC^lOCDCDiCi-'CSOOOiOiCiCC^lCOCO        CMCD  »-« 


85 


:cOt^OOOOi-«CMCO'^iCCDt^OOO>Q»-'WCO'^iOCDt^C 
;C0C0C0C0'^'**'^^'ff''^^^^^iOiO»Cu:3iOiC»O»-"'- 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 


3055 


io(?4i-^ 


f^'  rX  ec  CC  ■«*'  (>i  C-  GO  OS  CO  c^^  o  CJ  »o 
S??-QOC<5M(Ne^c50«C.-.(N05t^ 


BS<DMOo)a5oroa>oot~  — 
tp  CO  OD  wJ  M  c^" -^' r-^  <o  cc  e^"  to' ■*  cc 


to"  o"  c"  c"  o"  c  ■*'  MJ  '-■"  2  S ""  ■*  t? 


^  Tf"  ^'  CT-  U^  ^'  i^  t^'  CC  GO  '-'  to  C^*  O 


(-;  Q  o  aD  t^  o  ^"  t''  "^  t^  C'l  "^  ^  ^ 


S-<S*CO(MGOaiOOCCmOOCCC^ 

1  o  ><  to  r—  c-i  -r  --^  o  '"^  ^' 


.-Ht-OlCOCCt^'^iM'" 


^^^-TiN.  o-^t^or-r^>oi— -^o 


r^t^i-t  cc<N 


oc<ltc-^oaca^^^-^^c:■c^ccGO 

COOOO'^GOOiCO'-'t^COir^yDt^cO 

oi  o  c^'  cc  •-*  i^j  cc  >o  o  Ci  o  c-"'  c;^  h- 


c*5  iO  CO  ic  -^  o  o  i^  o  00  CO  cc  r-  o 

OlOOOiOOCOt^GCOOr^CMiOO'* 


.—       (N 


C^  CO  LO  lO  -^ 

1^  r^  t-- 1^  ^ 

«3  (M  00— 'Ol 


t^coccocc-^^o 


(M  i-i"  CC 


cooooic^iO'-'ioco'^'-'Oi'-tiMai 

b^  '^''   C^  J  CO   1-^  CO     '*'     ^' 


CO■*GOCOlOOl'-H':C^OO^•^C^O'-' 

(Mr-coooTfCir^'^'McO'^cO'<fco 
.-.lOtooo^oO'— '-^coco^-c^^coC"- 
^  0~CO  OC  »H"  IT  J  o  of  OC  CO  c^'oT  !©  ■*" 
00  OJ  •-< 'J' 00   est-*    O    CJ 


OC-^OCCb-TT'cyjOOOiOiMCOO'O 

oc-^'— co'—oci-^roaiooc'oai 
ooccoo*ct^caor-i--ooc'^aioc.  o 

r-«  CD  QC  CO  r-i  CO  CO  OC'  -^  t:'  C-l  CO 


.-H  CO  1-1  lO  r-«  C^ 


CO  t-" 


ooooc^ooooooooo 

OOiCOOO-n^OOOOOOO 
C^OOCOOOQC'iMOOOOQO'n- 


•-'C^co'**iocci^ooci;0'--c^co-^ 

<C«D5C(05050CCtC;CI>.t>.t-»r>.t^ 


0iOOU0O0i00i00SCT>rpC0(N»0r^O 

■'ajcoor^ocO"t^c4^(^ 
:>oooo-f^!NO--oo 


—  —  —  w-.^iOOSCT>rpCO(N»Or^O--'OOiCGOOOCOt^CO 
50COC?COrt<t^OOiO':t^CNdX)fM05C"101000CMO-:r 

c-i-^ao^^ajcoor^oco>-it^c^^050i 


DiOiOiOiOiO'OtOtO'O'OlO 


1--  i^  1--  i^  f  »--  t^  »^  1-*  i^  i^  i^  i^  T'-  r-  i^-  r~-  r^  f-  r^  r^  r-  r^  r^ 

^OOOOOOC^OCO— i-^iOOiO^rtiOCOr^tOCSiOCOCOCOOO 


CO -:}' C^         CO  OJ  C^  CO  r-i  r-H  CO ' 


;  c  a 
,  a  a    ,  , 

c3  c;  o     ■> 


/  b  b  aJ  ^    -O  1-  -  r,- 

...        -^33tcn„."gi^3cpL|3| 


-^sa.agg.H-2S5§5 


^So'^. 


o  a 

-;    o 

u 


EKpq(L,^OjSw£mm<1P50&:aMrtwSmG^ 


iQ 


;0'^     .  o  O 


bo 


.go 


o 


o 


-rt   "J-*   "-^  :;7-^  *j»    ^^  «-i   c/}  o   i-i  i-^  . 

•  ScQ     "=  ^-.  «  ^  ■-  ^  ^'  £•  £ ' 
^:^»g^S-3aOg^feSB 

.E^r:rJi;or'~!Ua3cl3« 


"»  3 

■  ■-  "si     ■  ■-  ^        ,„  O 
o<i  bica  5  o  m 

.»S'^am!Cna3 

So   -52^0- 


°3<^  o  =  - 
o^^  0^.3 


o 
So 


El 


iOCOt^OOOiO—^'MCOTPiO^h^OOOiO— iCS,-   ^    —  ^.->~ 
CMC^C^C^CSCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOfOCO'^'^-rf'^-^Tj^rf-^Ttl 


^t:?2r:!t:tr^'~'QOoooaioococo^cMh-» _ 

OCS<NCOCOOTrO"^OCOCO-:t*iOOOt--'-OOir-COi— ir-t^o 

-Hf-jOOCO-HO  —  <N-^OOC^O-hO^— 'CMOOOO-H 
»JOtO<0^>OiCiC^iCiOiOiOiO»OtOiOiOi0^tOiO^»00 

lOOlCOO'OI-^'OOC^t^OCO'— •';0Ot^»0u0C^l(NC0OC-|i:0 
r-iCO'-''— <CN-^i-tCO  -^C-l  t-H  .-i^.-<i— -COCOrHCO 


Ci^ 


tHp. 


C3  C3 


5111  111--  " 


■a  „--^  a.  tx-  .5  j££•0■.2'^^'^..a 
«Sd3.aoo0^O3.-S33 

PnZiffiPLiOOPHQSlHCL^opqcoigeqo^PMCtiMQCJM 


3-g  „    „„ 
§  "  S  -3  3 


-3'*  o 


if   I'O 


£f  ;-9o§£j'^ 


o  I-  a> 

am. a. 


O.S§ 


^■£oS' 


d" 

o  s 


2  a>G  °^ 
o  a  S  >.CQ  ;> 


o=a- 


»s  ftg$  «  a  Sot  P  c'-' 


.  0  F^ 


^SdSJS  E<u§tBg-^E«SE  So§-3>.a  £  c 

^c^cO'^»ocdr-^oo'o5ci<--csco-*"iocoi^o6oio— -c4cCTti 


3056 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


-2  » 
CO  3 


OO— '^CJOO^OOOCOO 

"^^COOOOOOOCOOO^fMC^O 
C^  Cv)  C^         ^  CO  CS  (M -^  O)         CC  CO 


"- "s-g  ^'-3  ^  '■§  ■«  "3  o  -S  ^'^ 


do 


!^  3  >^d  £?« 


o 
>'6 


do 
Oc 


a  03  ori 
O  "^  '-'  .    >>  ° 

°  Sa " 2  2 

.283*^8 


c^ico-^ioccr^GOCiO-HC-^co-^ 


5C^  O  CO  CD  »CCO 


C-I  o  o  o  o  o  -< 


CO^CS*COicO-^OOTt<OOOCS 


00000 


00— 'COr-^CDCOOC 


I  C^CO  iO  ^         CS  C^J 


•3."^  I  !/j      ,0  ti  >3l>^  w 

5  S  S  53  o  o  ®  o  o  a  o  ' 
>>5^.2'S-2  >i35-S-s.: 
c35«^ox:5»a.2oj 
PpHWoqqooQhJ«mc 


O  CD   O 

o.go 

3       3  t-  ^ 

oS 

a  ^  a  K  ^ 


■e  £  1=  "V ' 


o 

to 

fl 

lo 

O  3 

fa  B  M 
ffl^a 

m  ®  ^ 

2  >  a> 

^  a>  a 

oo-»; 


a  o  g'o 

c  §  °3  o  o 
g|a>feO 
I-  o  S  a  — 
03  03  o  c  aj 

0'3^'3(L, 
i::^  £     ■  03 

.-  i3  a    .  g 


OiO^<MCC-^iOOr^00050— 1 


—I       « 


°!-.a2-S.2o^ 

o  c;  ^^  o  g  o  ,' 

><  -c  a  c  "  £  - 


oS'oi 


o 


^.BBr 


PM 


a  *^  i'ii  a  °  '2  t:' 
o  <JJ  a--m-2li 

i^   '^  ^  a;  CJ   X  ^  Q,^ 


pL, 


x  ?  'S.5 

2  C  OS'' 
.5  " 


■§-2^  a 2^ 


"  ^  9  fe  "  x-'a  o  =»     - 


P  «  m  m  -2  ^ 
t^  2  a  ?'E=" 
Ph  tr  0.3  " 


^a.a2- 


"  2  S  0.02 

^•3  o  -^ 


A     6  6'i:; 

.3   <5^  XJ  .3  02 
«  O  O  2  ih" 


a  03  a  2, 


o  c  03 


oS 


10  (TO 


.-h.-iO;C'*oocotj* 


i:C  CD  ---  I-  M  C^  CO  OS 

r-T  oT  o  ^  cs  10  Tji"  CO 

■e^^  o  ic  CO  00 


00000000 
00000000 

OiCOOCOOSOO 

oc^'^iccJaTico 

-^^osoor^Mi-ir-i 


CCOOOOCO^i-HCO 

c^oooooc^ccccos 

CCCOOM'O^-Hi-OCO 


c^coTt<t^-rt*'*a>oi 
COCO— ^oiccoi^Tt* 


osoi-^-^tior-ooo 

CCCOC^CCN^i-lCN 


t^OiOOC'M'— iOC<I 


r--  CO  c-i  »o  •--'  "*  to  CA 

rrroQOO'yDr^g;-^ 


<  (M  »0  iO  CO  00 


.   ^^C^l.-H 


JC^  (M  CSCS-^ 


lOOOO-— "'—».— lOiO 

ooaii--ocoas»o 

<N  i-T-  O  '-«  O        to 


CO  O  CO  ■-5*  GO  "O         t-l 


lO-^  C^  iC  CO  to 

CD  O  t^  O  O  O 
10 -^  00 -^  CS|  00 


r-H  CO  O  O  O  Ci 


OcDcDCCOOcCOiO 

005<NOOrOOS'-' 
t-,  coo  CD  O  *-•         CO 


1— I   T-H   (>J   CO  r-l  10 


^00 


CJCOOCD(MiO'«?'(M 
-— 'O^COCD-rfOOlOS 
O5CDO:iOG0tOC0(N 


OCDC^OCOiOCO'-H 

CO  CO  r^  00  CO  CO      t-i 


III 


!•>-  (M  O  CO  CO  r^  — '  ^ 
CCOiOCOCOCO-^(N 
»OO>OC^Tj^t^00C3 

^' ci  ^  h-T  .-r  CO  cT  o 

Oi-HC^C^iOiOi-HtO 
-H  ^  W  CS  1-1  (N 


00000000 

00000000 

OiOOOcOOOO 
0"c4"0  "O  o  oi  to" to 

Tt<i-lOOr^CJr-(t-t 


(;_;    ^  (N  CO -*  io  CO  b- 00 


MUiSriTioisrs  industey 


3057 


4  (N  (N      I  C^  O  CO 

H  !N  00      <OC0O 


t*  I©  F-H  CD 


C^  GOCOOi 


-— I  ic  OS  00  t^  00  !>■ 
iQ  GO  CO  C^  CO  ^O  "^ 


O  (M  OOO  00  <n  CO 

ir-  rt  .-H  (M  cs  Tji  OS 


lOO-rJiCDOfM-f-— 'lOOit^-— 'OiiJ^OCO— 'CO 

Oi^'-<u:)'^ix;occ'coaoOi-^cDooioc'jcs'— I 


fv^O-— t— itNOSO-— tCOCDiOOlCSOCOtOCD-^iO'-HCDOOCCOOCOiO 
Oit-^iOOt^CO-— tOOI^CSiOCO'-i-*'01^0t^COO:Oi<COt-OQO 


oicOC^Ji— iC00>d01"^000S"^OC000iO"^iM 
00'— 'OiTt<  1"^         zO<^'--*<^'-*t>'^'rt<Oit-^ 


<ccst^i^OfN'— <c^»0'-H'-Hr-.oc"icr5coc<io>co»or^GOC'3co"^o> 

to  CO -^  t-H  .— I  1— I  --«  lO  TP  !>.  »0  r-.  CO  <:D  »0  00  "<5*  CD  Tjl         00         00  C^  CO  "^ 


CO  00  CO  Oi 


.-hMCOOJOOC-IOOCOOOO'^COOOOOOO^O'^ 

1— <oO"^ocD^coOt^ot^oo;o-^:or--;ccD 

CD-5i:DiO   OlO'^0:y:505C^C^^'^^^01i— I 

^"tCtC-T  '^  c^i  cS  o6 1^ ^ cS c^ CO  t^ oi  o6 o^ 


C^^f^_ir-HtMo^C 


.— i|>.CSt— iCDOSlMO— 'OiCOr--— «.-< 


■<c0'*0ii0X!O'^O0i:0f0'M"^O 


OOOCO'OGCi— •CMCOCDOCOC^'rf^t^CSt^I^COCOOOi 


t^  !>.  lo  r^  t 


;— .TfOfOCQiOt^OO'^COOTfOO'-HClO:'^-^ 


t^C^OO'^O'— 1         i-ii— « 


^  rH  rt  CO  <^ 


.-<  lO  t--  1— I 


OOlMfNOO 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOQ 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO05OO»CiCC'COOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO«2OOOO 
OC^lOOOOOOLOiOO'— iC'*G0OC00:OO^4OOC0OC00i:cOOr'OOOOOOOO':C'OOOC^OO-^CDO'-HO 


r^"i0OOC<ro"Oi00i""^OC0'-»-*J*O0i0iC0OOCSOt--O»0C-3  lOOCOOiiO'-HiC'OOO-^O-H  lOOiO-— lOOOOOr-O 
OOiOCOO         .-hOIMOS        OOOOM         COCS--!         r-ir-OJOCSiO'^DOtOOCDCOI-^t-iCSCO'-HT-icOOI^COCNl^OOOCOC^.-'U^Oi^ 

CD^^OOOlCOOOC^l«COOCOCOt^COCO«OCOt--OCOTt^OO'<**CDCDCD001-^OOOC^OiCOCO':OOOsOiCO'*CO'<*^^00'-^C^OO^ 
MC»■^C^'^0:■-•'-'00Ot^'--^'*'-H<Nait^^-C^I^'-t0iC0r}^--HO'<*^I^C0Tt<0i 

(^jlOC^c4a;lOr-^o6ooc^c^■^o6coo^^'-HOQ'-^c5oco'^o<iic^i<^^^ 

C^r4M«COCOWt-'CSCCCOC^CO'-H^CON?DC^tOCONC^'-<Ni-lCSCSICSC^C^C^-^<aDC^ 

■^^,■^+^locoI--■■— |"*■^I^^^OlcocC'-HOtr:?ooco^-•oo'lOC*■l-^r^'o^^ooc^"^Ol•-H.— (u^o-— »ooi^  -fl 

lC000S'-'■^'^O00'-HC^C^OCS05C^lC0Sl0C:»Ol0•*•O■<t^OO0S000iT^'0100O"*O^0C0O0sO^-O•--«C^0^  -^f 

cclCOTroi'•x5cot^cO'-HoicDt^co»ocDo6o6*o^->^'-H.o:co■^^c^-^cD^  o 

Jd-— tc^-— 'cocococ^io-— lcoc^co^-■'^OicDO-oOTt'C^cO'-HCS'--l>-HcO"^c^c•^cO'--'•--'CoO"^"^c^t^cococ^  g 


o-HcccMOsoi-— 'r-oii— 'oocoi; 


5  CO  CO  o:  C-J  C  00  ^ 


DOlO'-'COfM^-^r^Oi'MCDiO'OCOCOOiCOt^'-'Ol^OOOOTt^CO 


'C^'-H^'.r--0'^OioOTn'-Hcooo^-»c^*ool>•05C^•-H»oxico'^^T^^*lX)^--':D(^^cDt'-^-•coo^-oo 


0000:0>— 'OifDOOOCOO'OOs'J^'-HOr—  Cl'Ci 


lOTPOOiOCOOlCO— 'COCOCO'XJCOOi'^Tp'^OOC^OOOCO'-HOSOO'^ 


CSCOCCCOCOC^iO'^iOC^^'-^'-i'OrPOTfir^-^CICO'-HC^CSC^lCOCOC^'^COOSTt^C^C^U^COC^'^iOCOCS'-^CS-^CO^ 


iC  01  ■Tt'  CO  tT  o  o 


»n-^OC^5--<r-iCu^tOCDC'lC'10:OOGCi— '■-Hu:)CDO'--''— 'OC^lC^OCir^OJ-rt^OlCOCDCO'^'— "COOOOOit 


0^C0C0C^0500C0OOC^r^OC:^O01C^'-H00O00"^C<lC0^00C^iOCDt^0J<:O'-^C0C<)OiOt^'-HC0  01O"0-^C0r^C0CSC^ 

oio6^-^oi•-^oi'l^c^^^^^^"^oio6■-HeD'-H■*^oiai■-Ho6olO■-^oc^o6cD 

00PlC^^TJ^C0    0C0^-'^OC0»0t^^00iO'*'^O«5C0'^'-HC0C^C^'*'l0C^'^C0C^C0C0^ 


'^  ^CO  CS  rH 


i-H  ^  (N 


^-^oc^Ol■^t^■^'Osoo^^cocDcoo■^cDO»ocoaOlCOcDOO!^^T^«l^^^-.^-c^^^c^a(^^^^^•--'^_ 
I--O"^ootr^"^»-HLO.—  0'-<»oo5»o:Di>-r^tco50i:^co»ooi-^oooost^oir--»or-.cccD"-o 


lOiCO— '■^C^'— •00'— 'OOl-^CSCD 

"   '  "    ";uoTr'oocooj'*^ooo»o 


t--lCooc'■:).-HCDOOil^OTpc^^oolOlOcot-^OlOcoco05^-c^oooiCsoTt^cocoo^l0^oooooolCN1-HC^coc^ot--oo^^"^ 


i-H  05  00  lO  CO  CO  C 


j-'HClt^COCOOOCO'OCO'— i0SC^C^t^cDt^CD'-H'-i0iC0"^00CDC00iO"^'^0it^Oc005OCD<— icDC^lOa 


t>.i-«         y-l  Oi^^t^C 


O  CO --<  O        CS  1— I  C^  CD  C^l  •-<  lO  M --» 


C^C^COC-JO^cT-OCOCCC-OiOCMiOOSOO 


Jt>-OiOOO:)-n'00»Ot^i— "OOC00005COCOr^C^O'*:*^-^OS'^(NcDOOTt4^0S 


OTt^TPiOOlC0C0.-"O■^O':f^000l■*C'^C0C0^O^^Q0U0C^OOOQ0'-H000iC00i■-<0001tO■*»OC^^^-C^C0<NOC0O 


tOCOCOCDiOOCi— <CO--H-^C^rft--iOC^O'— •C^COC^OJ 


SOiOOCOCDiOOOOCDOCSiOOl-— icOO-aDiOCO-^^OSiO-^tNOOl 


■^r-H'^iM'<JH(NCO         ■-tTPcO'^COCOCOC-J(M  ^riC^C^C^^OlCO         iO*0         ^-^CO(MCOCOC^^i-H^COCSCOC^'-( 


O'oo^coi^'j^o.  o05C^»QOOlOoo»oo!£^r^o■^Ol'-HC^^Cl«:^cococo^CTt^clcot^c^^ooo^-co^-foc•^co■^-oo 


CO  00  CO  t-  O  CO  GO 


j^OiCiOCscootor^oocM 


000SC^I^t--00OiC00C^OCMOas0iOl<CC0t^OiM00(MC^O 


GO"^^-•^-■'^^cocMOoocD^-.'-HOOcsoi*o■^cocoTtlu:;■^co■^Oi^-•o■^^Ol■^Olcoco4ocsc^^coa:l^* 


T-H  CS 


COi-Ht-'^C^t-^Tr'        i-HOHO-^OOO-rpCMfN         COiOiOUDOCStD        0000        CSt^C-ICOt^COCOC^'O'^'^C 


^  f-«      (M 


b^  lO 

^c5" 


OOO'-'OOOClb-O 


<  r-<  O  Oi  CO  t^  t 


--.      r--  ^  o  lo  -^ 


Ooooor^'McoocN 

b-CDt--a3<M(000'^CO 
OOOiOCiCOOOiOO'-f 


T-iC0*OC0t^O5COl>-*O 


h-rJ*0CC0OG0r^":0-^OJ 

^^^-lO■Tt^o^-l—^■<tt"co<^^ 
00  r^  O  00  oi  00  c^   lo  lO 


<M  CO -^J*  O  OS --I -^   CD  t^ 


:aiOi— '-rf-^^ooorfcDcot^oo 

^O-^OO'^-^OOOOCOCD'-H.— (,— (Tt^uO 


■^COC^C^i— «COtIHi— tCOOCOCO-^-^CO 


H  -^  CD  lO  O  CI  O  Ci  ". 


<io»ooo'oco'ocooooot*r^r^ai'— icD-^cDOifMcDb^cococsioco 


c^csc'iGC'-iCsr---^ico5'0'- 

r^— '0-oOcoO'#f-'-'c:5iC     _.._    __     ,_    . . .-.-     _,      .... . .. . 

t--CCC^C^C^C^'-'-*00c0O"<:riOOlG0CD00C0OC0W^O^TPOOO»Ot^i0t-^CSt^OC^t0C^-^0SC0TPCS0i0000t^I^^ 


•  ooiccoc:iocicDr^-— 'Cor^r-oscD'Oosioc^t^cDt-'iocoicoiC^tocoOi 


.-H.or--C:iOO»-i'*r-0  0-100-^CDOS't*'-'<CC)»Oi 


-H  r^  o  o  >o  00  o  - 


^cocoooLoc-):D-^a;oor--r>.osOCS'-*»oco'!j'ooo--'i— <'»*<t^ 


OOCOC^OOC')iO(NCCOOCSOSt^(M»OCsCC'»OCO'^00»0>~tiOOO'*iOO'— <— lOiCDOSCO'-'iO 


cDOcD-— >coclcoOlOcocs■^^-•^-■*^oo^-•coosooc^•^ocD^^cDco•-^■^^--cocou^'--"t^c^cso^*oo•^'— '-^o*^ 
■^.--rV"odcocooQOC^co'^orc^fco»ct^oc:?'^'-4"co»OL^ 


CD         lOC^-— <         »-<'*C<*'— iC^CO'-'OS^O        C^COC^Oi-^i— <!>. 


;  CO        ^  r-i 'Tf —I  to --<  (N --H  CO  r^ -*4  ^  00  (N  c^ 


COiOOCOOiO-HOCO-— *'tfCOCOh*t^-^CD'— •'-HdOiCOOsOTfCsb-COCOOOOc 


<T-iC^iOOt^^C^Ot^COOO»OCDCD 


^OCDCOOOOCOOOOCOCO^*COOS^^■^'— tt^-^u^COO-— 'iOOCOCOCOOO'^OOCOCOOOO'-hO'— •C0W00t^00Tj^.-HOOcD»00> 

cc^oo^-•0'-^cocccocoOl'*cx^lOl0  0cooxco•-Hu^oo»o■^■^cDC^^^Oc;^^■^c^I^Tf<c^^oscO'-HCsoo^'-HO^ 
■^ocoooodOcoodoccDLOO'^i'o^o^"oo50^od1-^.-H^^co 

... ._  --co— "r-HOSOC^'-HOCO-^         ^"^CO-^OOiOOOiOt-— 'I— IC0«:)— >iO(M'-HT^--|--- -         


.-I  lO  1-1 


CO  --I        --< 


IM  CD         CO 


SC^HDOeGOCOOiiO— -I 


OiOCOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOtcOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 

O'^ooooooooooopocsooooioc^oooooooooooooooooooooooooooo 


o-^ooooooooococ 


JOOOOlOOOiiOOOOOO— 'OOt^OOOOOOcOOt^OOOtMOO-— lOO'-'O 


COOOOOOOOiOOTt^OiO-— 'Tt*00:iOSCOOOsC100"^OcOOOCOO»COsO'-Hi 


OOOGO— t»00'0.-<00»000t 


(M  ,-,  r-( 


5G0C^  COC^i— t         •— I"— <C^'^C0tOi£)'^dOt^C0»O'-HCQr-t.— ti-HCOOr^COCNt— tCaOOCOd'OiOOS'— ' 


Os01-(NcoT^»oco^^co^O'— •c^co'^iocDr^ooosO'— 'Cs^co•**^lOCD^^ooo50■-HC^co^^oco^^oooO'-^c^co■^lOco^^c^ 

.-li-Hi-HiMi-ti-Hi-H.—  I— ii-<C^CSC^C^C^C<IC)MC^MCOC*5COeOCOCOCOCOCOCO"^'^'^-^-n<^^'^^'^>0»OU5»0»000 


3058 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3 

a 
'■^ 
a 
o 
O 


sa. 

a 

«i 

o 

[ ) 

1 

<a 

? 

u 

o 

H 

W 

•r» 

m 

<» 

O 

s 

Z 

';^' 

H 

^5S 


W  ■"  S'-  2  mS 


;  o 2-2  - 


2^o 


g.a- 

o  G  s  c:  -fi 


:z;S2 


-tj^  to 


s^Isli^ 


"        c  m  o  l-T  a  "5.° 

P-i     -S  ca  ^     .s  " 


0-1  o  S  .5  o 


:  C2'- 


So 


ci,P2 


■S  ^  "O  .a  ^ 

c  c  «  y  .  r 

■2    ^'c2 


o  o  o  p  -; 
|£og..5 


o5 


P     Q     rt 


2:82 


00  r^  c<i  c^  CO  --H 

t^  O  O  »0  I--  CO 


l^  CO  O  CO  O  05 
rf*  CN  CC  (TO  fM 


CO  "O  Tj*  (N  r-i  O 


CO  W  »0  GO  CO  i-H 


mt-'<t«GOcO'*0(N': 


-•^(MOOO^CO        OCOCOiO 


(N  O  C^  aOO  (M  OO  t^  »0  GOCS --^  O  O  t^-rf  tH        CO  "-^  CO  i-l 


•— 'CO':0-t"0'-'COiO»OCOOO'NiCTj< 
lOOOOiCO     [i-HCO'-HCQi-HWiOC^ 


-•-t^OCSC5'^'^CO'MOC^»OiCCO-i*?OC 


o  Oi  CO  r^  lO  -^  t 


■<  CO  ^  O  Ci  Oi 


-  00  ^M  O -^  Oi  CO  "^  »0  Oi  t^  OS  CO  05         CO  CO  •-<  CO 


O  CO  »o  cs  o 


'— "COOiOOOTj-COiOt^O  ^Tj<  C^  lO  CO 


O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O        O  C=>  o  o 
CDOOOOOOOOOOOOCDOOOOiOOOOOO        oooo 


i-^OOiOiOOiOCiOiM 


I  O  O  O  O  O  CO  O  O  CO  lO  O        O  C^  O  CO 


oaicooioooc^ooo-^r-r-'ocDio* 


^<=>0(^^ooC'Ocooco 


<  CS  O '^  h- CO  C^  O  O  t'- i-H -^ii         O  O  lO  1-1 


C0C0l0CT>l^'*<0i0--<O'rf^(N0St-^C0OC0'*'<*<'rt<t^C0C0C0r^O<Mr 

lO.— iTfCOfMOOOlCOcOOOOiO-— ii— t^Or-HiO'M'O'— "C^OCOO'-'OlOCO'' 


OiC*it--ioioior--or-io-ooTt*c<ih-aic^ocooco» 


<  TTt*  en  c^  c^  •— t 


C^CO<N'-iCO(N'-iCSClMClCSCOC^'-ir-icO'^C^tNCSCSC^Cli-H'-iC<lC^CO 


OC0(N(Mh-C0P0OC0C0c0C^CSOn000C0CT>-^00Oa>'^C0C000i-'C0Q0 
t^05r-0ia>t^c000b-Ot0Tf*^'<*<0i'-«t^"^cOQ0C0u^C0^^G0»CC0C0 

<^^cDod•-*cduocdoiooT^5co-l!**oo6o6wc^i^^eocD1-^o6cdTJJ!d^^t^ 

OOTl<Tj*C^COW^C^^OiOCOCOCOTt<i-(<D'^CO»OCOCO»OCO<-tCStC«0 


,-HO5'^iOQ0air--Oiio 
coaic^r^-^--J—^'cdc^ 


^OnO^HOOO-^Oir^Os^Or-C^cOO'^COiMcficDiMiOC^—t 


ICOiOCO^C^CO'-H— "COCC-^CO-— 'CDOt 

i— Jr^cOTP-jDpiqo^t^co*; 


■^CO'^'-'COCOC^C^Tt^COcOC^Tt^CJC^C^iO-^-^C^COCOC^Cl'-iC^C^CSiO 


cor-coo-t"fMOOfOcO'M'~<CJir^co-^ci-^cof^» 


)  CO  iTJ  lO  CO  CO  O  CO  CO 


■^<NCOiOTfOO— 'lOiOf— 'OCOCOt^-— 'OOh-OOCOiOCOOS"*OcDt>-'— ■' 

l^co^CTt^'^-^-^ooio•-Hod■^co^^c•io^ocood-^"^^^^^oco■rJ^'!Ococd 

Ci'Ot-C-^'-HCOC'lCOt—  Tt-t— Tt<-^COCOC<)— (Tt<»Ot^^Tt<CD'-<--HCOr-COCO 


^kOO'Or— -Tf^-^onOCS— <--<OcOO(Mrt<0.— <CTi«5Q0C^OC0C001-^ 


30i>0^(MiOGOO— -CiiO— • 


<M  GO  r-  r^  CO 


CO'^050:i'^CSCO-^0005--fr^COCOa3'Nt^C^OO"^CTSCO'--'-^"^OOOCO(N 

■-4"TJ^(^^'oco-^co■^'■^"o"coo^col^lOcDOcoc»o^GO^-^co•-^ 


t-^'-HCOCO^H[-»rPCO'— "t— 


00  .— I  ^H  CO  O  •— '         05 '-' C^  O  t-H  <— I 


oococ<»-*r--coiocoicco(NcO'*c^t^oorj4r^L':)i--<ioa>^'ft*'^cocoh-GO 

lO-^COtOOOC^iOO-— iOi"*Tf<iO.-(-^.-Ht-000-*OJrt*a50COO-^'-< 

COOiuOOC^iOir^'^'u^oiaiiOCDOJ'— I'-HCOC^CDrtJcOCOCOrOC^C<i»0000 
CC-HCO'-i"*^^fMCOC^C^C<)<Ni-i<M^'^'-<COC^C0CO'-iMr-(C^CS^CO 


CO  CO  O  -^  CO  - 
CO  CO  »0  Ol  CO 


jTt^cO-^cOOi-OOt 


5  h-  ^  lO  CO  CO 


OOOr-Ci'^— '^Osco— «— '-:j'0:>io'>^c2'^G0J 


coococ^c^cO'^c^cMr-coco(Nc»coco--'aicoair^cooii:^QOt^ 


ia>^*OI>-CO-^-*nMiOiOC<I^C^ 
CO    CS      CS  CS  .-H    05      >0 


.  .-i  o  00  "Tt*  CO  as  — <  t^  o  c^  o 

i   1-H  CO  UO  lO   cs      c^   <-* 


;cocor^cO'^uoc^ic-icooococ<»gi-^'^o^»n-H^h-»oco 
s-^OCT>-^cococ^>oio-— '■— '>oo50'^^C303cOCTlOOc■^cO'J;^- 


co»0'^^05-^OTt<^^<^^' 


t^  rf^  lO    C^ 


O  >— '  t^  OS  h-  00  — I 


cot^coc^^-^-- 'r^coi— icorHr^cOi— 'coicoococo 


<...'^-^_.-L-..-.':o»ocoh-co»0''^ooooco'^oa>»noosco"2^aiQOp 

OOC^JcOCO'-'iCOt^OOOSOOOOC^'^O'^iOCOC^'— 'Oiu^COOoOt^GOOOi— I 


TtH  CM   »H   t-H  -^   (N   r-l 


i-t  .-H   h-CO  I 


iM  r^ooos^ 


t^  Tj*  00(N  h-  » 


1— <c^-ft--'rt*os»ocoocD(MosooO"^co^coh-r-oor— o 

O  —  (X)r-«C^CSh>.TlHCOO'f"rJ<CO'MiO(MCOr^»CfMlOCOcp 

— <r^O"dr-r-(OTf»o»-'Oi.— i-rfcococO'-H-^CMco-^^oi 


CO  lo  c^'c^roo'cooonaicocdvooo'cTcor^  tCiooco  COCO  "^rj  *2^^!2m 


.-H.-tiococMOs^^T-ir~^ 


(N  ^  CO  OO'-H  « 


scO'Mh-r'-Moococooc^coc 


iot^c*i050co>-HOr*r~^«-'io 


ascovooi't'Oc^iocicococooO'^"' 

O'-*C0'-0ClC'Ja3CDC0CSTj<O'-HC0'- 
COCS  .— iCO^^'-^CO  •■ 


rC'i"»0r--rt<OCiC0»0-rt«t^(Mi0 

5cococO'-"cocsTt*a>co^-cc«o 


,^_->— ^-.-_^, JOOOOOOOOO 

OOOOOOOOCDOOOOOOOO 


O^t-OOC^Ooi00iO?5P-OoS0O^OOOc0i0OOO<M  O  00 

rnii^ioioc^O'0^cooico--'C<iocor^coiooor--^'^OiOO^O' 

#^,_,  _,^c^j  00  -tJ^CM  lOCOCO  .-Hi— I 


DOiO'-^cNcOTfiocor 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3059 


I  t^  C<l  rH  00  ^  T?*  lO  Cl      I  O  00  50      iCSO      lOSCCOOin 

iciodoicocoTf'c^^ 

iCOCS'— i.-HiOOl'— '-^ 


iTjHcci-^     icot^     i"-<(N      r^     i.-.t 


r-    "--Hooco 


ccocor^oo^'--'«oo;cs'-H<-io^'^oo(NTr»ocoO'rf*c^i«:;co«3»oc^Tt'^o^c^(NOiio(>icoc 
ooooiooor*os'-i-<*'C^-^c/:.c»»oMC^o»CTrooO'-Hu^oor-HcC'i^oc^cDcooococccooo*oc.i< 


c^i  r-  b-  o  o  'H 

CO  !>-  00  «D  t*'  05 


C^CD«0'-*-<S*'-<0'^^TpOOeOOOO-<*<OCD-^(MCD^CMI^iOQOeoOCO'-iTtIocoasOiCO^»CSOOC^ 
CO  I  «-l         CO  CO         «3  r- CC '-'  ^  >-<  I 


2S?5J 


^^,_(,-^r-laiC^ooo^-^^'^^c•^cooooilOt>-Ci'■ 


scooooicot^oioooooc^t^'fc^i^'— lOi'-HOo; 


,«0'--<'Tt*t^C^C^O^C^l--"OOOOt0  40"^OOCOCOOC^10iC^CS'— •CSCOC^r--OOOCOCOt--'--<'— 'C^tCOt^CSOO 
^OC^OOOr^cOOOOCO-^COfNC^I^OOt^COCOOJCCOO^OCD^C^JCOCSiOXC-ICSCOiOuOi-H^OO^COaJ 


CO  CO  (N  C^  i-H  00 
CO  -^C^  ^^CO 
CC  t'-  CO  <-<  oc  -^ 
co"»o  ■^'tCoo  i-T 

C5  Tf  i-t  t^  lO 


ooocouor^oocsi-toOTPocco-^c 

^   Tj<   r-l  r-l  CO  „  COCO  C 


:GlOiMOt^*COCO^OO'— 'CDCDOSOOC^'-HtOt— 005»OC>JCOOOOO'Tf<lOOi 

:  i>- --^  o  c^  oj  lo --H  (N  ^  CO  CO  Oi  CO --I  TjH  .-H  (o  CO  CO  co_.cot-i      c*^ 


OOOOiOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 

■ ---^looooooooooooooooooor"""  —  '-"'-"''•  —  ""'- 

lOiOOCOO^OOOOOOCOOOOOOOC 


OOOr-OOiOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOQOOOOOOOO 


OO  OO  -^  ' 


JCOOOOOCMOOOOCO 


OOOOOOOOQO 
OOOOGOOOOOiO 

cjooiooiooO'-Hr^ 


05  O  O  t^  "O  Xt 


OOuO'^OcOOOOlOO         tOOOOOOOOC^-l-^OO^OoO^O 


^  cs  Tr<  as  o  o    CO  oi  CN  o  «D  o  , 


t^CNOiOCvt'-HCN'^OOC 


C^  CO  »0  lO  1— «  f-i  CO  O  CO 

.-I    rtC^      CO  • 


■-4*l0000505^-C^OO'-<Oi'-H^^^--OOh^OOlOC0^001^-0■*C^COI>•COlOCOlOTt'OiCDOTt<COOOCOQOOOCDCDO■-•OOOOOiCO 

r>-o>cvioico'OcoiO'--oiCTPcooO'--'c^'OOcocscoooTt*cocO'~-<cO'— tc^^■-Hcooo^•^cooo^-cooo•-H^-<ooo 

^^^o■^^c^^^^'•— •■^Ocro-^'cdccc^icoooJ'^oocc'cotoco'OcocDOoocc''^^ 

i-H.-Hr-H.-tcscO'-HC^'— '■^aicoiOTj<coio-^Trc^cococ^'-*rHTt^iocscO'-HrHC^,-H.--<CNC^CMCNOC^csiO'-H 


'^*^lOooosoouoooococO'--'0^^ooco;-Ho^^»ow^^oo-Hoooalco^^lOWuOlcoooc^*coc^lc^^.-Ha5coco>-Hr^ 


iOOi'^OiOcOC^QOOi'^cOCOCC»0'-'C^CiOiCOTt««0000  0. 


coooO'-HTrr-HOi^cot^cococscot^.r'.cococor^cot^t^oo 


00t*CD»OC<lW«000-^'-HGCi0C0'-H0ii000t^'^C0r^01»C(N01C0C^C0C0C0C0M00TrCSIC^ONWOTt'e0»C0^ 


,^  ^  ^rH  r-l  r-l 


C;^OOiOO'-HCO'-«'--tOCO«OOC^cDC^OiC»COCSC^»Oi-HTjH>^COcOCOCC'*''^>--«»OCOC^w^C^CO'-i 


:>coooai»oior--oo(>JcDoocor--GCCJiC'— '-rHOco'O^coioooos^ccotco^*'— '^»^^oo■^co'^JcoNcocococo 


.-H^rNOCfi-^cOiOOiOOcOc 


iCJCD'— 'cocC't'-oc^cocoeocDi^c^c^ic^iai'O'rj'C-iTjioct-'* 


;t-cDr-cot^o:c^cot^ 


--I  C3  lO  I^  C 


rcoocr^'M>ccO'-'coo-^c^ccMXLOCi-^'-'0500ifot"-i— <or-':*'h-cs— 'a■JO*o■ 


^-  Oicc  CO  I'. 


Cv^i-Hr-.r-iC^T^wC^.-Hlr^^OOCiC^^l-^OCOt^^CO'— •^-*CC^'*CVl(r»^CO'-HC4COCMTt'COCCOC^O"C6t^M 


C^C^,_-c.-HC0G0'-Ht--r>.O»OCCOC^OC00CC^I^0i'-HC0iC-rt'0:C0C0C0Tt*00CS00'^iC0i00C0CiC'IOC^C0CI»-(COOcCCDC0C^     » 

0"^00"^X)cO'-HOcO'-HCii;ooococ^r'-i^Oico--HOcoiO'-Hi-^cicoOcocccsc^c>ir^r-.r--co"»*'C*i"^t-.ioc:ico  i-h 

^o'lOoi^^lOco^-^cor^^-^cocDc4•r*1'.-j40  1-4cdr--^'-H'ooi'-^'cd'-H  ,_^ 


5  i-H  lO  iO  !-< 


•— co^'OooilOcoffo^ox'coocNMco■^coTf^c^cocDC'■^o*c•^ooco■'t^cooo•--^Oit^t^»c^)coco■' 


)  —•  CO  t^  CD  C 


3»Ot—  t'-GOCj'— 'COTt*t^O»OCDCOO»003000COCD05000J^tOCOb-OOOOC001iO"« 


Oib*-  COOCl  ^ 


i^Tt'cnco^^oooiococr:iOQCc:--ai'-«!ro'— CO*— cr^co^ooocort*-<1•0'*XlcOloc*^l00or^c^^-C'^c^  .,  ^, 

c^ccc<^cocoooolc^oococol01-•OiOO^-•c^ocor-^QOC^oooolOC^oc^r>•'-'^-.ooOloocoool'— '--^c^iccooiocou^oc^ 
oTcot^'^piocO'-HGC— J"co»ot-^ot--rcoh-rc^' 


.-HO         W  IM  C^  CJ 


Ol   -H  1-1 


05COCOCO  r-^-^^rfMC^CO^—iCOOOCOO        C^t-iiOt--— 'r- 1         CO         tPi— (r-nc^c^ioO-^C^OiC^ 


T-H  C^   Ol  "^   .-H  »-• 


coc^r--osr'•lOOiT}^"^coc'lOit^o■^cc^TPcocc^^a-'Oi^--c^co■^C1.— 'co^O'-H^^l^^O'— iooo>i^'***icO'-^ 


csiOTfosOioooooc^co'-Hor-oooioit— oooco 
cdcDco*^co*oioo6iot-^r^OTi*oc^«-Hr^i-«Cit^co 


»ocoCi<^^alcooscoalco■^oO'-<QOoso■^^^c■^co■^0''^asc^lO^-»■ 
^*coGCC5'wocooico*lo^^o6c4opc^*7Hc^^-^■^'GOC^'^^^odcDt^ 


4C*1         .-<.-(Tj'iO"^'^iO'<1<^0'^"^C^"^rr'C^'-H.— -TjiiO 


i-((M<— I.— iC^i— IC0COtJ'C^OIt}<.— lT*4'-3i,— iCOC^C^i— ii— ( 


-""OJOCD-— <t^C5*CiOCOC0'O;— •^TpOOlCOC^COC^ICOOOCO'— <'Or-O»OTr00'— '-^CO-— •U0»Ot--CfiU0O5ai 


^C^Or--'-'00r1H0005Tt*'^' 


;C0cCfMOi0'*OOC0'*^fMO(Nr 


5  CO  o  t--  en  as  I 


OHMOOOOCOOiOsr- 


^^lOlOC^c^ooc^t^'-HO•ot--oO'— ■osor^b-cxijOt-'a.  co«OTt-cot--iocoiO'-Hi— lt-^o^-oocooc<^a5■^c^ 

coc^"  cst^      c<^loco■^co"»o^^odx"^o~coococc"^'-'»0(^^~cs■^'"^^o      »o*^'—t^*oco>s^odoooicococ<fcO'-^"t-^oi""^co 


oj  cs  CO  c<i  00  o  o  uo      c<      eoot^« 

-"-I  CO       --"  c^  ■ - 


(M  — 1  r-H 


CSOr-HC^  (N 


o>-Hoc"0■^^^^^^Tt^ocalai*0'-Hoo^»lo^Hoco^^co^^'— t'^'— 'coTt^coasoc.  eocooiTt^t^^cocoQai'— ' 


lO  CO  lO  QO  -^  00  c 


;t^oc<NGO'— '00'— 'T^— ic-ioootM»0'fccir 


■Moscoeoosoasascoco-n'C^oictotN-^asooc^i^-cot 


coasascoiO'^':HcococoO''**'ffcocO'— loc^ooco      cocot^csoc^-^Tpr^cort^oiC^ooiasTt^ooooTp 


ooocO'-HO"<*r-.cc      "-^      coc^cC'-H 
-—  CO       1—  c-1  c- 


CS    TjH^      <N  ^ 


OSCOiOCOOOOS^"^'— iC^t--.C0OI>-C0»0»OC0-^t^(N-. 

.    —    iTjjco3;^asicuoas(^ojast^aicocoa;co<rioai'^io 


coooouooocot--r^t^r^coct*wcocscoc^o»oc'j^r^i-ic^^o 


C^  W  Tt<  CM  CO  Tt^  < 


r*oooo»ocO"tj^'--xor^co-Hcoooco 

c-f  rC  Tt^*  00  1^  O  GO  --^"  ■-^'"  cc  --H  cs  r-T-od  CO   *-h 


3  OS  "^  00  CO  CO  C 


*i-^iO'-<t-coc^oot^oasocco 


O'-'0000C0C0I>-t^C0  0COasC000*OC0^t^C0t>.00C000C0'-(C0C^ 


'  — I  CO  C^  CI  >-«  CD  r-1 


^^^t^t^^iOwcOOlOOC^OOtMcO-— iOr^05COI^05C_  . 

f-Hi--oocsco*OQoai(N-n''^»ocot--icioco^^r^io-Hcoc 


^OfO-^  CO  — ^c 


"OGCOO-^C^COiQC 


)  CO -^  o  t^  c^  as  c^ 


^c^co  •— 'cocor— t^oooocO'-'ioos'— 'C^coi 


3oocDOi>'»-Ht^o-^rHcoo>'— 'oio^aiOscocMt^cDuoMCMcooO'— >t-oocNasQO^^co^^'-Hooocoas^*'— '-^oooc^ 


>"^'«**-^aicoasiMorjiO'— tco'oeo-— •coosc^GOcor^co'^coco'C'' 

■-* ^OOCOCOcCiO-^iOOOCSCO'' """ 

COt-.-<C^ijOcO00Gi         *-• 


-      - --      -  -- . _._..-.     ,..'^O"^00CDt^Tt<'—iC)OC0'*C0CD'—tC'l'^  •-• 

■-(CO         »-«C0"^fO         '~<OOCOCOcCiO-^iOOOCSCO'-HCOOO*-'C^        CO'-<COasOOC^'-HX'-«»OCMC'lM'^.-<COt>-COC^CO  "--• 


SOSC<ICDOCMOCOCOC'10t^iOt^C^COCO'^cOCOCO"^'— 'OSOiasiOtOOCD'— ICO-— "COt^OOt^'-' 

st^r-t^oooo-— '•-•r-oocooccoc^oO'-'asr-'— '— ■cD'Oc^asr-OiooOcO'— la'-c^'oajr-'iO'— ' 
>ocot^»oiooo»0"^cDcDOTt'OcO'— 'iot--iOTr!DuO'--'co»oc^coo»ooooa:ooscMOioot'-'^asa3coi^ 


■<  00  'o*  Oi  lO  »o 
« lo  as  CM  i->.  lo 


-^  00  00  ■*  >o 
00  t^  Tf  t^  t^ 
t'-  OCM  t^CO 


<— it^OO'-'CCiO^OOTpOOC-IQC'— 'h^CMiJOiOC^lu^'— '•— 'r^-^COOSCOO^I^OC'OcCcOCMxr'I^-CO'— •'— 'OiCD>— t^T^ 


O-Hi0CM-«f00C<»iDOas-* 


rr  CO  -H  CM  lO  DO  - 


M^i^r-aias^i-^'-''-*r^coi^'«f'Ococor-^coco      oooocMoot^ooo^ot^CMcO' 


Tt*  to  1-1  r-» 


^        ,-1  ,-,  ,-(        uo  .-< 


O  O  QOS  OQ< 
o  oor-00< 

O  O  OO  ^  CM  < 


!8S88SS88J 

JOOOlOOCOCOCO'^C 


JOOOOOOOO 

jooooo 


>ooooooooo 


^2St:"^5SS;^*^^QQ"^'^'^2'^0'*QOQiooooQOO'OCMOoor-oooioooiooo— <iouooocD^ 
lOOCMCM      -^CMcoo^oo      ^r--ocMo^o-*or-cot^c^o^cM^cMiOO'*raiTr'coocNco«trCMa>*o*ocO'-'CC":>cocs 

CO  CM  .—  iO>— I  CO-^CJuOCOOOO'-'  O'-'i— ii— ii— tTf  ,— (i— (  i-li-iC^  CO 


5SS2::^2322?"!?^f^'^'^Q'^'^'^■3'*^^^*ooa^o^CMco■^lOcc^^Goai01-'CMcO'*'^occ^^ooalO^CMco■^^oco^* 
coaoasosasosaso5asoiOsasoooooooooo^'^'-^^'-''-^'-'-^^^CMCMC^iCMCMCMCMCMCMCMcococoeocococoeo 


83876 — 35— PT  13- 


-11 


3060 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 


'  OJ 


I  00  C^  !0   I  ^  CC  CC  lO  t-   I  »C  :D  OO '— <  rj*  CD  oc 

I  CO  CO  CO  I  *-i  I— 1  CO   r-  '  i-<  CO  Oi  CO  ^  cs  o 


oj  (^  S  ce  t^  -^ 


Oit^'-tCiOOOOiOTt'iCGOt^TfCDi-H  t-Tt^cDCOOOiOCOOOOCOOCMOr^OS- 

o^-■^l:c■oc'^«Dloocclcool>u:)coOTr^c^-<J'o^^-^-1-lCSlol'<1*.-ioo^-l^- 

O  CO  »0  t^  to  »0  00  CO  ;D  GO  C^  t^  '  ^'  i--  C^   *  CO*  --«  C^'  O  O  QO  -^  t^  QO  C^'  q6  --H  00 


(NOO     TjirHC^lOOr-'C'f 


I  !N  CSCO  Oi  t 


ex:0C''MOf^TfC0O(NC5CDa0--'^C0Tt<0it^OO(N^^G0r^00CS'^C^O 

co^-«:^GOOlC5— ■Cit^iOcftiooiooGOO^cit-t^oiototMcDOOOi— it^ 

€«COCD;0»OCC'— 'CDOSCOi— «,— ir-icOOM         OSOi^OOO^DOC^aiOir-'^cOC^ 
oTc^ft^C^'O'-HTjJ'ort^tD'Qd        COiOod        05"Ta^Tjroo''cOrjJ"'ercOiOCOCDOcCr 


Of-iCOOCOi-iCOiO 


'rJ''-C^^--^CO'-l,-lCDCl  (M 


ooocoooooooooooooooooooooooooo 

OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOiO 
0^0000»OOOOOOOOCOOOyD"^OCOCOOOOOQC»0000 


OiOt^OSi— 'OOOO^OiJOC^OiOr^^OCOCTiOOOC^CO 


OCOCOOCS:Di©r-<»OOiOt^C^I--^-'-H.— it^COOC^i-HtOOO 


t^   1-1 1-i 


I^O(M»OOCOO'^^i:Or-OC^)'*rcO(Nt^OCO'MiOTj<rt<<NcOCOOiO--tO 
OC^COC-Jt^rt^OOTt^iOiOC^cDO-— 'COr— cDOit-'^iO.-HO.-i.-tOOiOCO 

cccc^^l^^^oci^^oc^^o6ciodcoc^ic^co(^^^*odlO«DcKC^"T}*LO 

•^i-'^CSCSCO'^COCOC^<M.-ti->t-iCOCOCOC^IlM<MCO«(NMC^COC^i-t<MiMC^ 


Tft^C0tC0S000:OC^C0i-iC^<NOQ0c0t^C^I:^C0050iOt>-O^c0iC' 


Tp-«f<:Dcor^r^coiot*t^O'-i'©'^^t^-' 


■«OcDGOt--Or--CDCDiOCO 


0C^C0C0'--«00lCG0'X)r-C0-^G0Th(N0CC0O'*'OC0iOC005WU0:DC0l^CO 
«:)'«J'iMC^N»OiOCQCO'^TrC^.-ir-<COO'*CO(NCOOt^r-C^OOO.-iCM(MC^ 


g*^  © 


^  ^^  S  ^  aS 

QJ  C  *H   >  ^.-H 


="  ^  O  *  m 

i     it*!:: 

«  o  ®  "  - 
>2  oj:  3  d 


c^o^-oooocccccoo^ocIDO^^OalCC^^ClOoC'■^■^^— "O^Cicoai 


iCCCCJCi-^Ol— -o^coc 


^GC»CTf<— <05Cir^»0'^c^oy^:c— 'ccocot^ 


^-^ClCCOJOiOOCC^OeDiOCOi--— ^lOC 


Tt*r^oor^««t^-«^co»o<: 


:f0^.r^ror>0i^^ooc^»oc5co» 


•rt":or^^cOTa^cot^t^wooO'00;»ot^^l=-o»o— •ccocOfN'-'t^oioOi 


^  CO  CO  CO  C^I  ' 


*  CO^  O  »0  IQ^  ^ 


;t^030coo50C^O'-^as'OiOr^O(Mcooi 


CC  ^  CO  C^  CS  iC  05  <M  »0  05  (N  CO   t-i  C^    — h  r^  CO  t^  (N  •-i  CO -^  lO  CO  (N -^  t^ 


i^_  ©    - 


osiocDO:r^THOi>-co:o(MOO'-t^^oO'^j^ooooor*-^u:>c^ot>-ioo50 

»Ci— 'C^OitM'-HTrcOTPOOOOOO»-tO*0050'-<OOG00051r^TP<©OiCOC^O 

o-*oi<dcooco■<^^o^>Tt^ocdco•-^odt>^^-^^^c^o«dcDl-H^'1-^^^co;D 

O -H  ^  W  M  TT  CO '^J^  Tj*  «  .-t  C^        rH -^  N  CO  W  i-l  CO  •*  CO  CO  M  CS  CO  C<»  «  CO 


ooa;c*^c*^c*i:0'^t--cc'ccoOTpt^-— I'^cot^O'-'OO'^OGO'— ir-»t^aiOi'Oi— I 
i^oiNcocCCT>c^osi--cooooicO"<**Tt*-rt*«3C^Tt<cO'-Hi-Hi:cr*T}*ior^b-a> 

Ot^t^cC(Nc0<M00C0G0»OiOC^iOT}4C0C005a::00O^«0OI:^iOi-iOi0r-i 

o  ^'t^'od  GO  lo  o  CO  t-Tcc  CO  oT     c<f  !C  c^o  ^^"^c^od<© -^coco  f©  GO  00 1^ 


O  O  1-1  CO  CO 


^  tH 


'  ^  (N  ^  ^  rH  rH  CO 


wa*" 


OOC'OC-lTfcOtOO'— 'OcOiO 
t-l-rriO-^C^tC^CO-^COOiCOOi 
t-OOi— lOCOI-^tOOOI^'— <•-< 

io.-riot^<:Dcr"'*'""^'cocrc^r^ 

CO  t^  t-  --H  CO  CO 


11— c-^OiCCOiO^i-H'tt^Oh-C^GOO'-'Ol 
iCDCOOaOOO'^CDO'^CDiOiOCD— 'COCO 

iTfasosoc^-— 'coioicc^tcioc^coot^ 
!  i-T'isiH'r-rirf  r^cooo  «5'iC  oT'^a^OTj^cd  lO  (>f 

1         r~t  CO  _3    CO  1-t  i-l  CO  .-I  1-1         .-I  CO 


Q0«— fcOOOCOOSi— fiOcDC^Oit^OO^'— 'OScD'^COtOC^-^iOOlOiOOCOi-t 
OOCDCiCOh-QOiCi— 'CT^C^OCir-— •f'-CDt^r^OOCOCOOOCSt^Tj*!— toos- 

co^oOTrt— o-^coioocococ^Oiocoo;D^Tt<uoasco^c^c^ooooo--» 


C^CO— 'C^CT)0>t^-^003COO^H"'**i-HOiO'^OOi-IC005050i:DC^OOiOCOiO' 

—  '    — ■  — —         ■i^c^O'O'^1— 'C^ococor-r^oo 

-OICD'— tO^'OcDCOCSi— "COOOr-i 


c^t>-oooc;coiot^»oo5'— 'osiooo—''— '^c^O'O'^r 

iOO— 'Oi-'fOOOO-tJ^COOCOOiCO'-'CSt^OlcD'— tO^*' 

cc  Oi  <^ '-^  ^  <^  <^  (:o  c^  c<i  u^  irS  ■^  ^  C>  QC  ^  t~^  ^  c^  c^ '-^  oo  <:^  "^  cS  t^  ^  oi  c^' 

CO'-t'^rCOCOCOOlCOOlCOC^'^        i-t-^         i-iC^r!ji.— i-^CSiOOcDUSCOtDi-f 


>a2 


-<j*  O  ^  O  CO 


t^iOcOOiOOcD-^OS— 'COC5X>cDcOCOOI>->— <iococ: 


OS-n^TlOCOI^-Oi'— <'-^OsOCOOOi*Ot-^05C^GOI^*OTT*C^CO^iOO 
COt^aJO"^-»fCOCO'^OiC^'<J'OiOiO^CO  —  "^    •'^'^    --v^^>=;^— . 


^COOOOC^OS-— 'lO'XJ^ 


r*»ot>-Oi— tr-iO'— '' 


3C^c^i>-'-tcoOiX)'fco*ocor--' 


300000000000 

■ JC-5GOO> 

^»^COOCOOOOOCOO 


OOOOQOOOOOOOC 


OOOOOOOQOOC 


3  OO  O  oo  o  c 
c5"»ob^o»o-^''--H>ooooo»c 


OOOOQOOQiO   . 
^OOOOiC 


OC^cooc^ii^cSiOir;< 

^         ^  ^  rt  !>,  t^ 


5C^OC^"OOOCOOOOOCSCOC 
-»  00  iQ  O  C" ^  ■"         ■"    ' 

O   r-.   (M 


CS,— it---— iC^00LQOC^(M^OiO 


OOOsO'-HCScO'^iOCDr^OOOO^NCO^iOCOt^OOOSO'iCSeO'^iOCDt;;; 

mcO-5^tO-^^^'*J^-5''t^-5*^"t»OiOiOiOiCkOiOiraiOCO«OtDCDCOtf5<DS 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTKY 


3061 


00O00OO(N 


t^rH  CO  t^i-t 


,-(      1  40  (N  -"^  i-H 


T}*lOTt<0)r-H'Tj«COOCD': 


CS  O  CO  -^  C^  00 


CC'^OO'^GOCOO'-'CS^-HCOiOait^CO'— 'COt-H—. 

■^(socNc<»Tf'«j*Trcscccsor-t^cocc)'-'OiOCD 


QOO(N(NC^TfOiiOTt*COiOOOO 


IC-l  .-.  r-t 


iO  CO        CS  i-H  CO  vO 


SS' 


oooooooooooooooooooc 

OOOOOOOOOOiOOOOOOOOOC 
*OOiOGOOOOOOO>-HT-tOOOOOOOC 


C^^OCOCOOOOi 


t>-Tt<iO»OCOi— >^iOCS*OrJ*cOi 


JOOOOOCMOCOCO 


50  ^  -^  ':0  '^  w 


■<  t^  rH  t^  o  CO  o  CO  t-^  CO  a>    . -^  o -^  o  CD  ^  as 

) -^  b"  CD  CO  -^  lO  C»  QO  CO  CO   I  O  O  CO  TJ<  O  t^  Tf< 
lO  l>^  CD  CO  C4  CO  GO  CO'  (N  O  O  CS   i  O  t-h  O  cO  CO  OJ  0(5 


•*»<  C^  1-1 -*  rH  i-H 


,_,  ^  ^  ^   i^^^CScq 


»CTfa>r^'^'*cooooooiot^coc^cDaiOt>-t^ 

t^OO^COGO'*<NCOcOCOiO.-'(MOi»Ol^t^OCOO 

lOco^-^oi•OGd^^Tt^^^csoodolOoiTt^O'-^l-HO 

OOCO'<*'-^'-«-^CNiO(MC^Mi-l'*^i-<t-'CO<NC^CO 


Cit^'-'GO'rfOr^O^OOO--H 

(N>-H-c}^t^o»oa5t^a50iTj^t- 


t-*coaiTf'*asoococO'— '.— tco 

05  CO  1-1  GO  '-"-<       ^^^^ 


00  lO  CO  1— '  CD  00  CO 

(N  oi  CO  c-i  -^  ai  o 


^  -H  ^  O  •--  O  Oi 

»-t  f-H  f-H  CO  CO  --H 


4iOiOC^-— i(N»j0C^CDO1'-h  CO'-''— t-^»OO5»O00 


r^rt^iOOS>-^^(MiOCOC^CS).-HiO--<C<ir-COCDCSCO 


(Mr---*o(NTt*ooCT>050't}<Tj*ascocsc»'tooooa:i 

COr^rt<CDI^"<^'-<^'-'iO--iCDoOaiC^I^OiOiCOai 
^.— itr^iCOOOOlOOS'— I'— I'^OSQO'O'^COiOiOOS 

r  Tt^*  o*  i>^  CD  .-H  00  lo"  .-T  CO  oT  tC  CO*"  oj"  c<r  CO 


C^  -s  (N  (NC^ 


ciCico'^O'^OfN^c^coosocNooasooco-^as 

Q3^,_,-^iO'-<OCOOOCNt^Ol'— 'OasOOiCDtOOS 
Oioc5»OodcO«dcD*iOl^aicDid(N''-Ht-^CDiOCD<-4iO 


(McocO'*oor^-^r^coc^coooococ<iioio-^oio 
O-— 'coiOGO— '1— 'aioocooOTr;ocoaioocoo5CD»o 

t^lMiMOiC^ICOOCOwO'-iiOCOOiOscO-^iMCOOOC^ 
■^CO-^-^CO        (N  1-H  ioc^^  CDCO 

O*  CS  00  cs 


CO^  GO  05  CO  00 
'-<•-<  ^  lO  -'S^ 
coco  I>C^  Oi 
O'C^C^'cOt-h" 


Ci  lO  »0  lO  lO  c 

ooo  ^a>'^< 


h^i— (C^t-OOiO'^iOt^iOCO-^iO 


COas»OCDCOCOCDCO'^t^OCOCSiOC^^C^COCOCS 


■<^C0t^-^O^CT>CD»OiM(M(M01^M' 


COOir-^XJCDC^iOOcOO' 


O  — '  CO  CO  Oi  C^  lO 


»-<cooi^ocO'-»iO'^iocMt^ooaioocsaiOiO-^CN 
o  t^  r^ --T  Tt*' irT  CO  ^^  ^^  c-i"  00  lO  t--^  CD  t-T  tC  CO  00  oT  "■ 


•^Ot^'^i^^OOOlcDt^iOiO 

CDCOCOcOOCDCO'MCOTfTt*0 
O-^'— 't-CO^Tj<T}<OiiOCO-^ 


J-^OOcDiO-— 'COiMCOC^ 
5"^CDCD(M00O»r:>OI>-"^ 


t-  ■^  O  '-<  00  CO  i-t 
O  »C  CO  O  CD  C^  .-H 


00  h- O  CO  tf  -H  t 
CO  t-  t-  i-<  '— <  -^  ■- 
(N  .-H  CO  lO 


OOOOQOOOOOOOOOOC 


-     -^-^OOOOOOOOOO  —  ,^^_w, 
OiOiOoOOOOOOO-^r-'OOOOOOOCO 

c^  --H  o  CO  CO  o  o"co  id'o"oi"o"o  o'o'o'c^roco'co 

cO'^i040COF-Hu:>-H(MiCCOCO»OiOOr=«XHO'^i-H 


cocot^^-t>-r^t--t^t>-r~-t-.t--oOQOoooooooooooo 


.^-^ 


2^23^^2SS2^;?*r'C2coi^^ooi^coio 
;;:::^;^^c^c^oioot^i--ooco^r-coO'^c^ 

^  t:  £::  ^  t:  *"•  ^  t:  r-  f^  ^-  I-  t-  f^  r--  r--  r-- 

— '—-(NiOCOCDcDOCSOOC^l^CSOiMCOCD 


(N  i-H  .-I  (N  CM  CS  C» 


--(  CO  ^  CS  (M 


•SOi-:i 


,  .  _' O  ■£  £f  g  1;  --  « 


•  ai  o  o  a  o 


O  I  i' 

a   '<   '< 

'^^  O   .  !=* 


DC  '  O   ' 

.S  do  j 


^  ^  (M  cq  c^  cj  c^i 


J  CS  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO 


^^^S^^'^^C^*^l'>'^O500t^C^)<N 


l-^CO'MGOOOOlcOr^OCTt'^yD 
JOOOOOOOOOIOO^ 


^  lo  >o  »o  lo  o 
•  -  1 -•  I-  t_;  I'*  1^  i~  I—  1^  1^  i^  r^  t^  t^  t^  r^  r^ 

ClrtCO        CDCO  C^JiO^^iCCOCOtT 


a     goS>^d^'^f^►7•c:S■ 
i3  q  ao.ti  s  °  o-S  3  =>  a  s2 

ga|a2S^sg||^|.25 

a.fci§.ti»°3§f£.SS;5^g 


3  tao 


'O  £  d^  0"3  o 

<p^£  >.M'3  d'-2j2  b'o^.^  C'o'l  gj, 
0  0,-^^-z:  3^r^.2  a  3-=  cj  a  >.£  o 

Qnccoc3i^o>-i_t: 
o.a  a.H  0.£-^  o  S  3  3      - 

.»KcBtici£^o2.-t;.tioafl   .» 
»-icsco-^»o<Dt^ooaio.-*c^'co-^iocDi^' 


no,, 

M  bJj  c3 -J  O  3  -^ 
11^  O) 


3062 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 


GCCCaiC»C»rt"OiX>C^CS0it^'--i0i^HQ0--«T-H00»0>— i»CTrOCJOr^OOOO«OOOOSi— "OO'-^OOi-i'^Ou 
GO^-^i-H.-HC^iQC'*C^CSr-*C^OO»nor--CO'-Hf-<i:DCO'-HCCCOCD'— iOOOiaOCSMQUtD-<^0100CDC^ 
O— 'OOOi— 'OO^— iCCOO-— 'OO^tNCSM'— ■-"OOC^OlMOOOO'-*--'^^^0'-'00 
r-  I-^  t^  t^  1^  t^  r^  r--.  t^  t-^  I^  r^  l^  t--  I-^  l^  r~^  l^  t-~  r-^  r-~  r>.  r^  r--  r—  t^  r^  i^  t^  r^  i--  p^  r-^  r^  i-»  r--  r^  r-^  i--.  trri 


C^*  CS  -^  ^O  CS  CO    »-H  .-1  ^  .— I  CS  •-<  CS  CO -^  (M  CO  CO --<    lO  CO  CI  ^  CO '^  CS  M  CO  CO  CS -^  CO  C4  TT  IM  CN  ' 


^'^J^oPoi 


3  rt  g^-5'3-9  5-S2^-.S-£  =i  o^-S  §  J^g  a  g-r^  005^0 
^S  i^l  S  g-§.^  ss  §555^1-2  ^-^  »-^  ^"i  "-^  o  ^"2^^  « 


a  q; 


o  o  a 
.r^  a  tuo  at 

•—  12  0!  C 


3  iy)T3 


j-oK 


■3g-3pW: 
'  3  JS.Ho : 


a>  i 


-  m  E-i  ffl  O  Eh  ^  rt  c 


o  o'^.S^S 

in  C  «  =f  §  CO 

a  S'H  °  °  " 

S-  (u  c  M  a 
a  ©  +^  cc  ^  > 
caxi  a  m'nX' 


r-     ^     . 


Jh  Z;  O   =^  hf  ^•  — 


.s  ^ 


"  >>  o  o  a    . 

Cj  a  bl<''~'Q 
r^O.a^'Co^ 


I  >.  03^ 


_g  a£ 


jW 


O  ftg^facO-O  O'^TI'C  °  9 
r-3 a>^c3BT-gJ2 


c^co-^ocor^GcaiO-^fMccTpicor^ocoiO^c^co-^iocot^GcajO^tMe 

^^^^^^^^Cs^Cv^CSC^lCSC^C^iMCMCSlCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCO"*'^"*' 


'  »o  o  r^  CO  Ci  o  «-< 


.—I  00 

O   t-H 


C0t--0--O0'^0-^»0'—  r--CSrf"00000'^I^CScOC^CO'-'OC'.  COI'-CSC^C^-^O'— 'rj"r* 

o  »ci  ■—  l^^ 

— ■    r-H    C^    —1 

4C  lO  lO  lO 

i^  r^  t^  r- 

CN  ^  CO  CS 


3(M^OOOO^O 


CTiiocor-<'*co^:ca)000'j::iCQCiM^r-^ooc 
.^  ,-,  «,    ,  ^.  iy«  ^_^  ^^  ^  J-.  _  . „  _-  .    — 

OCMOO  • 


COOOOiOCOOOC^     I    OCCCOCO-— ((MOr^aiO'<^GCl---cPGC'— '^rf— <CDt^'— 'CO 


■  t^r--t^r--t^t^t^r-r-t^i^t^" 


i   C^   L^   "J  y^   Si,   (.N   —■   S4-'   I"-  'iL-   I— '  ^.^   i.'^   lij  i— '  "J  C^  y.J  *— '  ^tJ  (.N   "J   "J   t— '  ' 

Ciw^(MCV|,-icO(NC^COCOC^iOr-.cO.-<C^         (NCOCO.-ir-tcO 


r-  CO  » 
00- 
r^  t^  t 

rH  — ^  t 

CO  «D 


OJ 


=^0 

■n  T  t;  E  O  S 


53-325  M  .^  !£  ?  -£S  »  tJ^  O   .  S  5 


S-2    'O 


QaZ 


2  i^   .     o 
ag«H^ 


a  c    -O 
o  'a  >■. 


oO 
„     O  to 

w  O  .    bo 

o  H  H  « 
o  a 


fe_aj 


3=  t'l 


;0 


3«j 
MO 

aW 
a  « 


.±j  r     r-^  ^   -.0   i-i,.^'  ^  Q^  O 

a  a-c  3  £r  bi  c  o.-c  «  P^ 
g£«[2£.9  5^£«SS 
5Q'ga;;,,gfc<«gW£f£ 

<iE«S.>.|St:'^.2^g 


«E-2 

r~  3o 


an 


o3 


;5Jg 


£S"- 

I— I  t)  o. 


<^  bi^  3  a  a 

wfe  go  >2o 
,  a  2  rapq  >-  a 


S^-^ 
S^-2 


£0 


o 


o  o 

S  9  o  g|''^[^  o-g 
s;  cOcc  a  >-  -'-'" 


ife 


5 -a  g 


S  e.-i' 


£  ?*fe  ■S  a  " 


3  a  oj 

3P-ICO 


;  «  ^  w  c3  f  M  CO 


.'0  3 


.Sri^saogo 

ca  o  E  a  a  2S  a  a 
x;  o  oj  «  ?»£"  o^ 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTKY 


3063 


(MCSCSIC0»0C0Oi0i0-H0iG0a005G0.   -   _ 


lO  lO  lO  O  I 


5LO»Ot040>0»0^ 


t^  r-  h-  t^  t^  t^  t-  t^  t^  r^  r^  1^  I 


t^-HO'^Ol'-'COiCiOiC^r--»OCOCOCSCD-— "OCCCiO-^ 
iMO'-^^l--^^'— i^CSOOOOOOOC^O^O 

.-I  £M  .-H  eg  (M  (M  .-1  .-H  CO  (TJ  (M  1— <         «)  CN  CO  CO  •-« 


^-J 


-H-t    ID 


^>^ 


i^ 


05  n" 


S  o  nT    -■—  »  »; 


c3  3  3 
a  C3  cd 
,2  &  &• 

T3~: 


■SO  _ 
-►-I    .(p 


a^  3  ffl  3 


;os 


3-5.: 
a  o  o 


<y  C3  0^ 

Q02 


3*?  ® 

^§•£0 

"3 


m 


'fLii3 


ISiS 


M    O 


tS.C 


dc5bof" 

■O  o,-  ■ w 

OfePsH  3  c3;2 

o  g-gfci  o  S 
i^H  1-  fc-  >>'n3: 


■'ft,    MO 

0-S2 


oil  >>§  mO 


M  « .9  "O  .S 

'&;  §  s  § 


-"  >-  Q  *^  T-)   o         mU 


.oO»    -^ 
oo0^c5§ 


a^rt-O 


ojM£^fHS»?oa5woPH- 


ga°o»'ax«„of^ 


o 

"•a  5;3  g  a3 

E^  2  3-3  o2 
.K,  g  M  3  x:  "^ 

CD*'  iSo  * 
•  -  o  q  ^  ^  ■^ 

t>  0  fl  »  >  2 
g  X  o  fe5-a 
5wOmP&^ 


ociCQOoO'— <crtocoroi--or^oiO'-Hicooi-^';ocsocoooccoit^'--<xioO'^--t^t^Ci-H 
r^cor^■<^'r^^o»nu^cD■^c^^-.OiOooaiGOOiOlOOGCcoo■rt^coooi^--ocl■— 'oocoooc-i 

^^O^T-tO— 'OOrO^OOO^(NO"O^COOOO-Hr-iOOOO'— 'C-IOCSOOtM 

OfOcoooiC':ctoco--Hr-ioooiOO»o:Dr^t^'— 't^-— tcscDCMC^or--— 'CO-— 'lOTf^c^i— ir- icor^ 

C^O)^         i-HCOOt-tfN         CM  CO^CVI  (M  CO(Nr-i(M        CMrHOi-l         ■-'         «D         "* 


-  o  Ph  •■ 

Po 


CL|0«o3-a^/3a^j3n^     .-O-ibHoSvT-o;^     ,     i>^     ,     ,    .fL,     .oStn       ^ 

j2o2'o33J3s£>-.-sxi^-'oaj.2S5>^oc--   -■;3„-B--'gS-S?^— H£ 

•-^S  §  g^  S  n^  »S2   .  §-3*2  S^  o  S  £  s.S-S.b:?  £.i3  °S£  S 
cuM^hjM?ffia?:Q0Ho:2;pi^SS2;mOK^mh4Hje^oe;?<<lOT 


J  O  M 

:o.a 

o    •  in 


as 


gll 

'E  ai  a  .a 
3~  3  a 


5:=:  '=^  o  □  is  3^~  C3S 
^^.S-^^al^^l^S-S 


Om 

r-«-2a 


iO 


;   ;   -rju  a  ii'PM   '  d 

iofb^iigs^ 

doll's '^"^fciA  >-°y 


■oO 


Obn 


3     '  3  S  ' 

3  o  o  a  I 

OQbH*-' 


^•y 


3  3 
■^  °  --  ■ 

, .  ..  ■<}  >  a'a>>  a  "£ 

-t^^-a^    .c3c3c3a>a)o 
PHC/:iQO0P|IlO«Ofe 


i^  S-O  o~'o'o'3(fLi 


op  Ki  ^  O)  ■" 


->.« 


^.Si  o    . 


S§^ 


M^gb».2ar3P^C 
o  ^f^i5S;5oga^ 

'^aa""™*^*-'c32' 


g  c  o'  i;  -^ 


oigS^ 

XI  cQ  fl  fl  I- 


ioor--coaiOi— "C^ico-^iocor-QOOiO'-^cscoTt^'Oor-GOoiO'-' 


^  oc.  o;  o  -- 


t'-t^t'-t^.t^OOOOOOOOOOOCOOGOOOOOOSOiOiOiaaOiOSOsaiCsOOOOOOOOOO'-Hi— ( 


3064 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


^     "     "l^   -,  C3    ^    >     '     ^ 


w 


■S  fl.9 


'ot-: 


Q  Oi  "^  ® 


CO  ^  ■*  O  CO   I  C«   I  C^  OS  I   • '^  (TiCD  CO -^  i  O  ^O  t^  ■  Ol  '  h* 

CC  <0  CD  iC  t^   I  OJ   I  »C  05  I   I  ^  t-- O  C^  Oi  '  lO  00  C^  i  00  '  t-* 

r-<'oooo6b^    't^     '    'u^  I     >»ooc«0'— *cd  'K^r^  'O  'lO 

<N  ic  CO  ic  .-t     tco     I      rr  I     I      Tfoocc  <      cooi  i  c^  ■  cn 

It  It  .  <  iCO 


Ch  *-  g  o  =^^ 


-^OOOU^CCOC^OiOS'-'COC^'^CCCO— 'COCOOt^O^CCOOJOOi©!;© 
OiCC-'J^'^OCSCOcD'^OOCCO'— 'COi-HCOCC^l^lO'-'r^COC^i— -lO-^CO 

OOicOMiO.-HCCC^CD*OOC^oi«OCicOO'--*OCOCOCJiOCO»C'-^*COCD 


■SS2 


O(M00^0il^OC^(N0i00"*00'-<05'-iCS00C0t^O(Nt^TfOC^OO 
0it^rt<00IMt^Q0t^(N'rfiOO"^"^CCC0OC0iOiOCCiG0C0'^»O05OC0 


CO         iO  r-l         i-H         r-i         »0         OS 


OOOOOiOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOt^COOOO 
OOCD-^OfNOOcOOOOOOOOOOOOOOroOOOCO 
C<IOOOOO<--OOOCCt^OOOO»OOCCiOOOOOGOOOOO'*' 

C<J         r-<        OCC-— iC^        .— iOCS^-^'-''-iOi.-tiO'— iCOlO        .-iiOiOi— tos 


(^  i  bfi      "C^ 


iri-^OGO-— 'C^Tj*tC00C'lC0OOOG0CCr--«DO00:C(rC»OT^C^J-0  0000 

io^'c^'t^-:-H'c^'r^iracct^ci^^t^t^as^oi« 


»— <NCSCS<MTt<i-HCScCC^C^COC^<NiMr-ico.-(» 


■<  CO  ^•  C^l  C^J  OJ  TH  F 


lor-c^-^'^'-'O'^ooiosOiOJococo-^a;  cDccO'-Hio-^ocNio 


■Tj«cOiO"^dbcD»OI>-CDCOt^'^'^^fOO:iOO 


HU0'^O5>— "0C"r**(N(CO 


lOdiocsr-coosos'-'-^ioco^t'h-cooos'^c^r-oooicor-.coococS 

f-tOiCO-^J'iOiOC^COCO'^t-CO^CMCOI-O'-^C^.-Hr-.coOCSfNCOCJ-^ 


f^*?^  §  fl  a 


OCO-^"*C<J-^iOiOC^ 


■<OC^»O00-^3CiCrf< 


5  -tf  00  t^  00  00 


COOt^iOiOOOCNt^CO-— '^OOOlOOtNO 

cdI>^o^»oic>»cc^'-Ioco■^ooiw5i 


T-tC^C^C^C^t^i— iCO'^COCO'^WCOCOCSiCC^fN^CS'^OCC^'^WC* 


OC^-^COt-OOO*-!.— •COOO'-'COF-it^^r-.C^.— iT^GOO-—  CO-— 'OSOSCOTt* 
•^C^OO'-HCO'^CO'— •■^i— <ODO'— 'OC^O-^OlCDi— («^i;CCO'M05-^CSiO 


CDOOr^^iOO'— cO-^'--'C^>0'<J"Oi"*C^ 


O-tjC^OOiOt^'-J'CO 


•-'OiCO'^t^OCOOiOOCOOtOt^CO-^30        C^CSCSC^CC'TCOCO 


o  o  ^ 


;  I--  !^  ^  lO  CO  - 


OS-rHt^OOO'^C^'^COai 

osoiioco-^'or^oi'O'— ' ,_ 

OCD>0^-00"^Ott<'— 'O^-CSOb-t^O 


r^o»»0'— 'QOOiOiTPQOOcoiot--r--coiot^-^c^GOO»o 


«r'-<0CO5i— 'cor^— <oot-*r^ 

--  -     "^  CO  lO  t^ 'fj*  c 

^  lo  oi  00  ^-  » 


COb-O-rpI^-u^OO'OC-CO'— iCOt^Or-iioOOiOOlCOOlOs-^rfOi 


l>     t^  ^ 


£  o  o  g-;; 


QOooooocor^oooooO'^cO'^r^osior-cO'— 'C-i-t^t^-^—tcot-Oioico 
oiosoo^^ooi'^oococor-aicooi--ooi^oicoc^cO'— «ooc^Oico 

lC*dcDcdco'cd"Ot^cc^^cDc6cdoico■n'Oicc*osc^jc5cctr6^^■-t*o^ooi 

(N -^        CS  W  C^  C^  CO  C^  C^  CN  >— <  CO        -— I  CO  r-.  CO  CS  <N  CO  CO        I-H 


&^ 


So  03 

W  a 


I— (   o . 


t^tor^-— 'oooi^-^t^c^-^  —  cs^ 


;0'-*iocoooh-'-*oo^- 

-     --     -     _     -----i'— 'TfiOCOC^JCOCCOCO 
•  OOOCSC^QOO'-HCOCOCOOCN— (CSiC 


r^t>-      CO'— icot^coOioc>i--HC^      coco      Ni—cooo 


CO         <-<■•»*<         I-H  « c 


c^cooo»ooiOicoiot^oococO'-Hooc^cccor-co 
t-t^co^ro»ooffCo*ocooocw:-ccooGOO  —  CO 


lO  .— <  C^  C^  CO  C^  "^  t-H         Oi         O  CO         i-H  .— .  CO  Oi  CO 


r^ict^c»i-Huoo5C^oooir^ioC'iOicot^»C'— 'OOc 

OCOtNCOOlO'-OCOC^COcOCD'^-^COTfiOCO-"  —  ■ 


r--  (N  o  00  00  c^ 

^  CS  CN  (N  «D  Ol 


^(NCNfNtOCOtN'-iCOiOOO'^-^r^-VTj'CCr^tOiCCOOCSCDlMCOCS^ 


CO  I-H  i-t 


CM         CO  T-H 


coos-^oso^'-<GCh-ccr^r-<oocoeot--t--»-<r^a;ococotoooosio-*' 

OiCMOOI^t— 00C0CMi0CMt-O0it--»OO»C0SC:QCi0COOt^i0-T'l^a5 
CMOir-OiCOCMCOOOCMOOOiOt-OOCNt'^C-lOO'-'COCNCOCO'^'^fGO 


CO  CO  CO  CO  1 


C^         r-  Oi-*  t^  — ' 


^oooocM(^^Olcocc■OJ»ccoal^-Tt*e^ 

"ir-iCCi— «  CO  i-(CSCO  CO 


>.  c^S 


o-^:o(NcooiOooor^iooi^ooco»oocoooOTj'r-^ioi 
Oioco-^cor^cscoooOi— •'— «oor^— *i'io-^t^oi---cooo>— .- 
t— «coi--t-oicocM":icooooococ^ot— ■<*'cooococMoi^a3(Moor 


OiO»OC0C000C005»OCM00C0-^C0TrC0»OQ0CC'0".  OtO'^I>-CO-H,— >'s:j* 
(M.-t.-H.-ilr^TjHC^lO'-^COCOCSt^-^tNCO-^iOOiCSCOCD        COCO-tt^CS^ 


ooooo>ooooooooooooooooooocoooo 

OOO  —  OfNOOcCOOOOC"-^"-'"-'*" " 

.—  OOOOO-HOOOCOOOOO^ 


lOOcCOOOOOOOOOOOOO'OOOOOOO 
;00:0'OOOOOCCO":iOCO-' 


O-^OOOOOOCO^^OOOOO-^COOOOOOOOOOCOuO'—Oi-n: 
04         i-t        OCOi-tCM        C<I  O  CM  O -^  CM  ■-<  00  >-'  >0  lO  CO  lO        COOOO        c 


i-tCMCO^iCCOh-00050i— 'CMCO'*iOCD^-OOOSO'-<CMCO"^»OCDb*00 

^^r-H^r-.r^rH^r-1r-CMCMCMCMCSlCMC^C<CM 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 


3065 


«3  ^  ^  -^  t^ 

Tj- 1^  oi  t--^  o 


O      1      I  OO  -^ 
GO      '      '  <D  Ci 

l-H         ■         I  M 


CO  00  00  U^OOO 
CD  lO  Tj*  CD  O  <0 


CD  W  ^  r-«  00        I  ^ 


000'--«C^OOC^Oh*OOOCC»OOSfOOr*OCOU^05t--C<10C<lOiOrt<»OOit^COiOCO'^CCC^t>-COOOCOiOCOOCOiOGCTt<CO 
OOOO^OOOCDC^^^■^COO'~-''-HOO■^l-^P^lOt--^--^W50lT^*«CD■^C^^fCC^OOTJi!C>0■~HOO•^C^O>'-HO>C^cD^«^OOOC<^^-• 

»c«c^co<DocD>oc5'^odc^b^od'^0'-^oc^'odioi^cDc^*-4---*(NOTp»o  j*Tt^t^oaJ»cioior^Tt<cdcdt^odc> 


0Si-l'«Ji05C0(NC0MCC^TfC00S"<*^'^C0iO»0CS'^^»0O00'*OC0Gr>t^i— ir 


O  CO  (M '<*^  C^  CO  *0  CO  CO  ^  (N         "-H 


OC^'*'^C^^lO^^I:^OM05CCC0^C0^C^C0C^Q0C00SOC0OOu^C^C^00C0C^C0O00■^00OC^f00il^C0I^0lC^C0^^ 


00'^»O'^^— <oor-OOio:-^oosroiQr^c^OGCco 


t^ioc3iOOT-i^cooococooiooi:^"*»ooo-«t*u:)co 


COU^C^>OCOOOCCOOOSC^GOOOOI>-COOOCOCOI--CO"^COCO'— 'OCOOiTjiCDOOO^iOiOCDcOt-.CO»Ot^OOOO'*«CO 


t^COCO         i-H  lO         r-l  CS  i-H  CO --t         i-Hr-HCOOOlM  i-H  CO 


OOit^         .-H  O  (M  .-I  .-I  CS  1-t 


oooooooocoooooooooooooooooooo^ooooooooooooooooioo 

OOOOCOO— 'COOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO'MOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOiOOO 
OOOOOOJCOOOOOOOOO'J^OOOOOOOOC'lO^OOOO-ffOTpOiOOOOl-O'OOiOOOOiOO 

ic  o  o  o  of  r^  CO  ^' ci' o  »o  lo  o  o -"^ '■i^  cs' o  o  o  i^ 


OiO^O"^'-"-HC^gO»Oi-i^t^CliM 


H    C^    I-l    .-H    lO    I 


OOiC^COC-100:D.-<(M005CDC 


Tj<CD»CU^CDC0Ot^OcDu0i0'^^C00aC0^'-HC0C<I-^t^C0I:^e0U5C^C0t^00r^'-'OC<»OCDC<IC0rt<^0iO'*C000»Oi-H 


«o  Th  lo  cx>  I-"  00  c 


'^ococo"^'-•c^^-cc^oo^^cDloooTr'05l-^l-HiO»o^-■^TJ*oc<lOi(^»osiCc^rHoo<:ncD(^»oo<^^c^o 

^Jco■^<xjo»rf^oc^ocD1-HC^.-HC^*lOo>Olo6c^cDco»ooojlo^^cDldo6^^c^ 
l-H.-H.-^c^^c^FM1-lC^ccc^coco<Nc^c^cC'-HrH<^^^c^c^c^r-^(^^c^c^^l-^1-H1MT-^I-H^-Hc^l^ 


T-^c^to■*■-HcoI^cooo--<■^^^cooo5■oo:::ou^^^*-HTtlr^r}^o5cO'*t^cOlCc»^-oco^-OicD-HC^-rt<u^■^J^05^^ 
cooiOC^cD«co^oo^^c^coaicoooT^c^ooo--^ooos^*OiOs^*■*cst^^-HocDcOl-lCs^c^ooo5050C^(^»cot^o^^ 

c4ococjioiccdcsio-^ioo^cdtcai'---cicDOQ6od'--<'oiocdcO'^oi>^ 

cocsco»ccs>-i      cococ^■<*'l^Tt^^^-cC'^'~^cso.-Hcoc01-HC^colOcD^I-HO•-^NC^QOl-^T-HcorHI-HTPiO(^^'-lC>^c^lcD^-l 


l-Hcc■^-csfO'*co^o^^^ol^l^cC'^oOTPOcDOTt*ClOOiC^^coai05GOcoO'*•^cDcooo(^^^^0'^*^t^o^ai'-lOo^ 

CCasOt^CS00t^CDCD'-Hf:COrt'T-Hr-^iOiOCCO"^05OOC000O0i'^'-H'-Hi0Tf<OC0i-H01C0'^OOTPTp05'^t0C0^O 

r-^'o6^^'--cocD:D^-^ci'-HlO(^^t-;aicdGCOco^oai■-*c^■^'-H•--<cD'o 

C^i-Hi-(rJiC0'-Hi-HCSTrTt''r}'OCSC^CCTl^C^C^CS-HC0C0C^C^C0C0r0^CSC^i-HfHCSMi-^CS.-HC0»0i^^CDC0C0W 


*00i00'^00TPC0CDCD-^t--CDC^'^00TriOr0iOO'000*OC^C^C0'^iCCD00C^r^CDT--(iO01t^r-^OC^00Tp00'-HC000C^^ 
C^O^^'-'X00G0OiOilOt-•I^^OXC^lOC0■-^C0C^^OCDl?^0000OO^»C0'— tiOl--CO^C^COiOO-^'<*^»OODO"^CD-^'^OS 


O'^OOC^     ,CDCOCib-irotC(MOi'-HCDOCCT!-rfCr:.-H'^OOi'-<F-iOiOOcDOMcD^'^OOC 


It^fOi— 'iMOlCD^-r^COOOO 


■<j<CMcooicO'-H      co»ccoco  —  ioc^OTr'ioc^c^jr^c^u3co'--icoTt*i^i---oc^oc^c^c^coi— ic^-^oc^oo^cc^r-fcoc^^ 


00-— iCOrfM^'fCO^iOCO'- 


oocscocnoo^coiocooou:i^cot--»C'-iCT>coi^>oco^»-it^(Moor^ooo-^-<**coh-ir^Tt<oo 


OOCCC^0100  00  0COOlTt'OO^COCO^COCV|t-40»J3I>-'-llOCO-^OOt~-.iOC^OOOcDCSC^CD'*a>^OOOCOeO'^OOCO«000 

co'^^oc^^Tf'oo^cttcoc^^^lO•*t<Ol^c^>QOC^csc<^^^t^al00c^coocD^^O^Tt'l-l^^c^)CDcocor-HrJ^TJ^o^cOl^ 

O  OcO  oi"^'  C^»0  CO  O  ■^CC  O  ■^•^*od  CO  ■^»0  iC  CO  C^oTiO'^iO  t-^i-H* 


■^  T-.  ^  *OC^ 


-to    .-H  CO  CM  .-1 


.-t    ^  CO    I-H 


r-H  OS  (M  00    U3  f-H 


Oi -^  r-   .— I  o --H   I-H  t^ 


1-i  rH  (M 


or^i^iccDOcooc 


<COCMCOCOr-COfO— 'OTPOOSOOOOCOCM-rJHOOOOiO-— iCDiO0DCS.-Ht^cDCDTj*CD00CDt~-CM»O 


^^^cooo^*cDlOCscMcoooooQOc^OT^coloc<^cs^^•-H«col^^ooolOO»-H^o6o^cbco^o^^eo•^ 
oicoTJ5loocdcDo6ai»0'-H^^cscoccx'^-^o-H'TJi(;o^oodoscOTJ^^^:D 

i-lf-t.-(COC0  i-icOCOCOCOCMIMCS.-i         (M,-(rtCMCMi-i         .-tCMtMi-tC^^         .-(,-irti-i         .-tCM-^         Tt^CMCO'-HCMCMC^i-l 


i--tCOTf'iCCD-H.-HOb^CO-^COi040n'iOUOC-lCO»OCO'-H05b-'-HOOCMOiOCDiOO^--HCDCM"rf-GOO"^CO'-<ai^'-H<^t^O 
C^OOCO'^C:gOI^'--'IOCNOOCOO'— iCDGOCDCDCDOCDiCCDOOOO'-i-Tj^CD'^'^^COr-C^OcOOOaiTrCOt^t^CDO'-HC^ICOr^ 
OS»COOCX)OOT-HCOCOCMiOOCOCMOOCOCZ)COiOO.-HOOSCO"^'-''<t<.-H-^C005CO'— *-^asCOCMCiCOOCO»OCOOCOOCOCOO 

oTi-Tc^'c^or  lOt^^rocootd^  cf     cO'-''"c4"co      •"-TcsTj^ooor-^     •-h'co      r^      c^-^cm""     t-^oi"'-Hr-Tcoooi"^ 


1-H  rH         CO  O  O 


Tj*C0O'-H   t-H 

•^  .-»  1— .  CD  CD 

eooiooo  -^ 
iC     rH-oTod 


■'oofMooasiM.-HCO'-'-iajcMt^icO'^io 

_      _     .IOCO>OOCO'»?<r-COiCI>-rf*'^COOfOO 
JCDCCOC^CMCD         OCOOiiOcOCD.-HOOOi'^COCOOS 


ioaiCMco^os-^^"<**o^co 

OOiOOTpt^QO'-S^CMCM'-t'^O 
CD  »0  CO         00  r- CD  t-»  00  CD -H  »o 


t-HT-icDCS*O00CDCO 


CM         i-HOlCMCM 


1-H  cOC<J(N  lO 


O00I>.        CO  Oi  1^        CMiOCM 


t^  00  ■*** -*  lO  -^  I 


)  iC  CO  C^  C^  CO  CO  w  ; 
1  CO  CD  CD  CO  r^  Ci  05  I 


ICDOt^Tj^— •CO-^CO'^'^CO'-'iOr-.CMcOCOCO.— iOCOOCOCO'<^t-- 


C0t^C0C'lTt*C^OC00003'-Ht^0iCDi-<iC^-C0CDr-(CMai0S00'— iCMCMu:)COr--OS«Dr* 

._  — Tt<'^t*uo-*l>.r^COOicoOOasOQOCMOOOO^CMcD 

OCO'^S'CMcoOOCMCMOOCDCSt^OTfiOCDt-iOiO 


O  lO  CO  CO  05  C 


CM    .-.  CO— < 


t^   —.CM    1-H 


CO  ^- CM    CO  rH    CD    CM  lO -^^ 


OiWOOiOO^CMC.  __ 

O*^CTiC000— 'r^du^CDCD-— I'^iOOOC^lt^CCCO'^cOCM'— <c 

cooco-— "coo-^cocit-oooi  —  '    '    --    -    ■■ - 


OstOrfcO'^t^rJ^COroaiO-^Oi'^QOt^iOt^OOiOiC^Ot^ 

— ^  —      ■  -^  lO  O  O  d  t--  CO  CO  "t'  CO  CM  — <  CM  O  ■— '  ~" 

t^tOOO'— 't-^GOcO'^COcDCO'^OOCM 


-- -It^OiCOCOt^Tt<^iOCOt^OOCD»-HOO 

iCOO-'^COh't-^tOOiCOOOOO-^OsCOCMiO 

"a)oooioocoio-«j<r>-iiOtOTj<Tj'CMCsaioi 


OCMClCMCMC0»O00^^C0Oc0■<*^CMO■^l0■^Or-^Tt'CM0aOcD0JO»0•-H0il0lOCMC0"^C0lOCMl0TJ^000il— lOTjH-^OOi 


»Or-(  I-H  OS  CO 


OiOC        I-H 


1-H  1-H  lOCO         CD  CM         CM 


— «         CMcOi-H 


H  O  —I  I-H  I-H  Ol  --H 


»OCOOt^COO'-HOi'n<iOCM'-Hl^r-.OOCOrt^C):OCO— "OCDOCM-rj'-HCMO-HCO-^— «— <— '»OiCCOCOTtH-rt*-^OiOOOlrj< 
QO^COGOCOa5t--CO^O■^cOOOOCMU^OCMCOalt^^OX40■XlCMCMCO^^■^OClC'CM^-•CO^O•*t'l>•OGOOlr--CiCCOCM^ 

CMcocoocTr^C'foc^co— ^CM*c^^CMc^O"^cMCM'c:*o^^dal"T^o^^CM 

coco— ■OJOO'-HCOCOOOCMCOCO— 'l>I-HCMf-HC^OcOCO^'CMC^CMTJ^CS^OCOCO^-— iCMt^i-Hl--u:)CMCMcoC*JCMCD'<*<OCOO 


OOOOOOOOcoOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOjOO 
ooooooooq0oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo»0oo 
OOOOCOOS— (OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCMOiOOOO'^O'^J^OOOOOl^— <^0i0000i0»0 

JOOOorC^Co'-H"oOlOu:^^-oo'-1-'oc^fooo— Tu^o'u^'o 


C^OiCOQ0-i00CM'20»O^— .(-* 


OOcOOOC^iO-^CMCM— 1 


— '  CO  — I         CO 


>COCSC^)OCS«DCOiO 


OO— ^CMCOTfiOCCt^OOOlO— (CMCO-^iOCDb^OOOiO— <C^COTH»OCOt»OOasO— 'C^CO-^iOCOb^OOOO— ICMC0^»0<0 

CSCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCO'^'^'^^'*'^^^'^T^iOOU300»0*QtOU5iOCOCDCOCDCDCO«DCDCOCDt>-t^t^t-»t^t^I>* 


3066 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


W-"  S-^  o-Sc 


I  C^  CO  w  to  -^ 

r  OS  CC  00  to  O 


^C8§- 


OiOr-.iOCD'-ii-HO>'-HCD'-Ht^CO>-Ht^CCt^Tt*OTt^«:)COC^CO"^tOCS0550 


»C  CC  CO  »C  QO  Ol  O  i-H  (M  «D  <N 

CO  (N -'^  CO  *C  CC  O     I  CO        O 


JCOi-«OOOOt^^COiOCSO-HOTj<CT. 
i-HCOCS-^CO^COOi-^CJOiiO^Tf 


CO  C^    .-I 


:2;82 


»  r»  oi  CD  lo  1— I  CO 


coo-— 'OcooiC^cCTt^ior^Otoos-r'Tt^ot^O'-Hor-c^o— ^r^ioosO 
00  I-- 00  Ci  CO  <-<  r- OS   OS  oi  r*  :o  cs  lo  o  o  00  c*j  t^  t*  o  CO  t— CO -^  Oi  CO  Ci 

<N  CO  t^  00  CD  CO  O  „    lO  00  iM  00  <-< '^  O  t^  r^- C^  00  CO  CO  r^  (M  (N  t-- --H  00  lO 

coo  CO  T^od'tj^O  oTi-Toc^oco  o^r-roi" ^cs"cD  Ti^o  u:rcs  o-  " 

C^t^OlcDL"  —       .  ..         ..  _         .-  ^-     --         --  . 


,-H   tOi-H^ 


IC  CO  "^  OS         lO  »-i  r-i  CO 'ij^         lO  CO 


•ago3 


OOOOOOO'OOOOOOOOOOOOOCCOOOOOOOO 
-JOOOiO 

■OOOM 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCDOOO»OOOOiO 


OOOOOCDOOOOOOOOOOOr^iCO'-^OO' 
iOOOOOTrOu^COOOOiCOC-f»COCO"*p'iCCOiCiO'^^ 


t^  O  "3  O  O  rp  40 


50i— it--.o— •r-OTf'-i 

O  00   r-t  CO  --t   i-H   -^  1-t 


iCO—'COQOCD— •■^CD'-*^C^C0CsO05Or^'-^I"--^0100C0i0ai"^t^O 


)  lO  (N  O  O  -^  00  C 


1  CO  ^  CO  t'.  CO  « 


J4C.— (OC^OSOt^(NOOit^(N-<t^OiOOt^OOOOOSO 

■  cot-^oJcD'^r^oocdcicot^-^oiio-^t^c^oics 


C^(M^.-HCS.-<C^r-.rJ'CSrHCOC^^C^C^trJ^-HTl'(N-<r'-<(NCSiC.-iNCO 


Hi's  S  ■'^  3  i5  <s  "S '^ 


CCC^t^00'<J*05C0-^CDCDrJ«CC'-'CDO^'-^C^OOOCS'^C^C0f0C^C0M 
0000O'OOi'-*OMt^lN000000t^^00O'-(r-ITj<t000CDt^»C-«^^He0»-t 


•OC^CSWiOMM'-iW^"' 


00OWC0C^(Nr*C^TP03U5'-I^CC-^C 
"SCO         1-1  "-1 


fiH.-8.sS 


oouocoos(MO>"^a5iOGC'OC^TrHcocoTroocit 


■  lO— 'O-— 'CO^HOO^CCD 


c^^ioO'^rcoooc^c^iooooor^co-vosoooo^Oi-^oooaiooaoc^ococo 


CSrHiOCDOOOOt^wOOCOi-tCD^OCOiOOiOOsC^' 


^  t^CO  0  05  tP 


C^CO-H»-*'*l<CSCOi-'COCOC^CD-^— iCOCq(Ni-(C^Tfi-^cX3NCOC^COi-lTjfTl* 


®  ^  §  «3  t^"^ 


005cocooscDoooiOooc^c^oooocococ^OiiOTrr^oOcDcDr-coo:io 


OC^OCDCSCOOIC 


-COOO-^Ol'O'^tiQOCOCOCOCOCOiOOr-t^COOO'^ 


i-H.-HOOOi005t^TPC00i00iC000i>000-^^t--^CSOC0C^iMC^cDC0 

t^'«j<coc^oocscO'-»i^O'-t05'-*ajcDcoroc^coi>-"^-rr'oooo-^c^'^coco 


O  ■'^        f-i  -^ 


3  £-0  fla> 
«»  o  QJ  2:J  J* 


CDO"000Oi— iiO^-COOOOCCCOTfCOC'4r-.00»OCSr-'-<C^t-CDfO*Ot^CS 

r--t^osiocoot^O'^ioioooc^coooc^ooOTr'-"OC5ooc^"^t--'-Hoot-- 

C0^Tr*i-«a5O'-HiCOC0C0O00t^'*riOOC5toC0Tj*OCDCDOC0i— lOOC^ 


coOi^coc^c^cO'-HTrtooocoiO'^cooooco: 


TP  00  o  o  ":>  ^  ^  <-<      iM  lo     00  00 


'  Oi  -^  Ci  CO  CO  — '  lO 


5  « -H         Tf<Nr-(O0CO        COCM 


g    O    Q    C   ^ 

CwiS  OOi 

Ph  o  S.s 


■rJ"b*005t^iOOl05COt^»Ort*'^COO^O'-'00^«:)(M»0"0(MLOCOcD 


i0t~-.i0  00O-Tj*00C^I 


-cocoos'^t^'^Oi'^t^oo^oOTrr^cqoo 


OOt^CO-^'^CDOa.-lCSi«0000»O^C*jT^C^COCOCO'^000000'— 'OO'^OSt-* 


^C^.-Hi-<CO^Cfl—iC<»CSi-lCOCC 


-^  CN  '^J^ 


'rt*C0'^CN0ii-4t^'^0iOCC0sOC0t^cDO0:^Q0I:^'<*'C0(MOO00'**<CD 


-  Tt^  cvi  '^r  r^  <M  ^  ',  , 

ICOOcOOOiCOC^t 


I^O— '"^iQcD'— iccoCcor-OiO'— 'C^O--Oit 
OO-^ooOcOrfCOTri-— 'iC00t^o:C^O:-^00l--»t 

or"^ci"cor^c^iC'--r.--roO'T^"co:o"Tr'--rc4~odTp"co      co^-^co'o      coooff^ 

c^COCOCSC^  CO-^i-HCO  COC^C^COt— I  t^ 


r^cocoO'-HTj^coo- 


lLt(N(NCDtC?N(Mi0C0C^C0iO»C00^iOC0Tt<O 


OOSOI>-OOCDr*COCO— <'^.-<CSO-^COOil>-X>CO'— <0iC000C005-^OO 


.-HC00Sr-<aiCDt^I>-050it^TfTp00»OO00OC0 


I^  CO  CO  00  CO  '-1  >^ 
<»^CS  CS  t^  (N 


CD  -rf  CO  —  X  ^  CO  c 


iM        (NCS^ 


J  c^i  CO  -^      oi  o  r^ 

rcor^oo      cor-T^ 


r>-O'-<<M00r*i-H'^000000t>-00O!N'*00-*00C0'<*<O500'^OSiOiOOCD 


CO^COOOt--OirI<cO":>'-tOOOt^^^Oi- 
t*  t^  00  00  CO  t^  00  !>■  IM  CD  ^  CO  ' -"   ' 


- -JC^OOOOO— 'OOOCO 

^-^COOSt^TTC^OOt^-HCOrfC^lCOt^CO 

co.-r^*rC      cs*  ^*  ,_r  irf  cs      cii^ 


^§2 


OCDa)0'^CSC^^H(NOOOO(MCOOCOQOt-t>-CDt^"-^iO»005COCOcO'-HOO 


lor-O'-iOiccoir^cooofNooc^oo— 'r^— 'OO-Hc 


>>— '(NOSCDOOCOt-O 


C^OOcOfNCSOJt^OiCSOOfNOOr^Ol'^OiOOt^COOOO-^OCOCiCOCOC 
CO  CO --H*  CD  O  Tf  00  c4"  lO  CO  CO  OT  C^  00  00  C^*  00  iC  CO  CO  00*"  c^' -^ 


lO  CS -^  CS  00  i-H  1— I  .— I        CO  OJ        CO  Oi 


3  CO  lO        CO  iC  C^  ^  Tj<         ■^  O 


TTOSCOwOO-rfCOO-^OI^OS'-t'^WCSO^'rt'C^OQOlC^I^l^t^CD^'rJ* 


coor-t^--«--(coooi 


lOOOTffN.— (ClOiMCOC^C^Tf(M(NCSC^OOi 


OOt^-CCO'-iCD'— lO^Or-OOiCt^iOTfCOOCOCOXOOTfiOi— tiOOOOiCD'^ 

1-H  t^  TjT  .-T  oT -H  oT  lo  Qo  oT  00  lo  00  ■-<' CO  »c  o  c^  o  r^ --^^ 

OOOiC^-— lajt^-TTf.*         OCS--*-— 'OC^OiiO'XOl         COCOOCOr^        GOOt-i 
<— ICOICO-— t  1— <OS         coco  Tf--«— <0         1-1  ,— (CO-"-!         C^Tf 


ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo 

OOiOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOiO 
OOcOOOOOOOOOOiOO— lOOt^^OOOOt^OOOOOO 


.  •  OO  O  O  *0  TT  I 
■€/=►  CO  00  o  --< 


_  .  o  »-<  r*  O  -^  :o 

OO  ^  CO  r-H  1-1  TP 


■rf  CO       o  o  c^ 


H  9 


t-OOOiO^C^JCO'^»OtDt^OOOiO^C^CO-^w:>COt>-OOOSO^C^CO'**'"2 
t^r^t^00000000000000000000050s05050S0i050S0S05OOOOOO 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTKY 


3067 


lO  CO  -^  CO  CO 
CC  oi  <£>  CO  -H* 


ot^w:it^GO-^t^O':ooioooc^r~--^^oiosooo^co»otNosoooo«gOTf2* 


CO 

S1^2 

MOJ 

f^E; 

00 

t^O 

Tf 

^H    C^ 

^ 

Tj5  ^ 

-—J  1—1 

00  05  CO 

OC^ 

o 

lOO 

rj* 

CO 

■^ 

'<OiCOcoa>asor^c^c^'£)coco(MOs<»cS"-'wioL 


-~i(:D00C0i-i"^Oi-«O 


t^iOOr>^uO!;Dt^Xl-HCS^<N'MCOt^»OC»GO  I  0<M050C^<N'<t^t^'^OS^COiOr-J 


t^  W -^  »-i  CO  «0 -^  O  CS  "O  I  <C  C^  i-i  <N  W^  CS  CO  ico^^oococ^c 


1-H  .-^    O  rH  f 


O-HiO'OiOiOOiOioasCOCiOt-COCOOM'CtCasOiOC^t-COCOO'^OCOiCiO-" 

lO'COsooiioot^rocsaiTr'r-'-Hrtioo^or-t^TtHOO'— c^'^Ocot      ■' 

r^a5cot^go»0!X>oo^cS'-<.-Hcocoo50>Oioo„  csooi-— <o^'c»Ci 

o  odco'c^fod '"i^aTo  u5'»Jr^TJ^(^fo  CO  t^(N  oTio      io"c^r^oc^TjrTj^<:oco'"'«*''o"o  ^*"oo 


05  CO  O  ^  O       CO  cs 


.-H   i-H   t--  CS  T-H   CD" 


OOOO^OOOOOOOOOOiOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOC 
OOOOOlOOOOOOOOOO-^OOOOOOOOOOOOCOOOC 


OOOCNCSOOO'H'OOOC^OOCNfNOOOOOOOOO'' 


iOOO!OiO00^OcCOOCJ:C-iu-.  OOi^OQOC^OO* 


lo^ioooy^-^o 


C^»OO^iO        CO'-tCS'-iir^r- .t^C^O-^CO'— "TfiOO'-HC^        .— iOCOfM»OC^COOr-i 


»-<  rH  rj'  C^  M 


IC  F-.     — 1 


COTf^air^iO.-Hl--.iO"^i— <!:OCD-^CDiOOOGOiOCO-^r^COOit^C100CDi:OC30iO.-H05!0 
i-i.—tC^OCOCOr*COOOC^OOaiQOrJ"--iCOC^t^'-<'—'COCS'' """*■"'"  '  —      ' 

^^  -^'  ro'  CO  CO  ^^  aj  ^  CO  00  ^^  Oi  Tj*  r^  CO  f^'  '—*  '^*  ci  o  •^'  00  r^  t 

C*4(N^— (C^CD^CO^^-^riC^-^C^JCq-H^COC^^C^JCSi: 


C^CSrt<Q0C^Tf'^X<MOa)'*^C0*Ot-G0C^00(NOiOCD!Mi0C0C0iCir0»Cc0e0i0 
cDO'^OOcoc0i-i(Nco«Ot^M00tOC0t^0JfM»CC0a0f0OcD^Tft^C0t--.MIr^0i 

j  ^^  o  od  ic  oi  o  '^"  ic  OS  -^  CO  CD  cs*  "o  CD  t>-"  ic  ■*'  c^'  --H 

.   .. .. ..    cs  r-.  .-H  ^  C^  1-1  CO  »0 


TfiOiOTj^OS^t^Oi'^iOC'J— 'lOiOfMOO^'-'-rJ'eOTfiM-^OlCOO-rJ^t^OOCOCOCOCS 
OO  lO  CO  CO  t^  ■•^  O  CD  00  ^-  cs  < •-    -~   ■  * ' .-  -  -  ~.,  — .  .« 

t-4i^»oo3asioiooir^i-H' 


lO— 'O'-'CSOO'O'^COCDCOt^OCOiOt-^-OOOiCO 

'  cd'  —I  cs  o  cs  lo  —I  ■rr  co'  »o  o  >-<  t^  o  CO*  co'  OS  cs'  --J  CO  t^ 


Tjicsr-ir-icoocs'^j'i-icscS'^cococoTf^.-HiocS'-'TpTrcococ 


T-.     rt  rHCO 


COOCSOSCOCO-^CO'— '^CSOOOS^O'— '-^OO"^' 


iQO>ocsoicocscscst^t^»-ioco 


coGOcsoot^c^.-Ht^ocscsos'or^t^r^ci'— icsoocoiOTj'cs'^oot-'-oi'^iocs 

lO  t^  CO  cs  t'^  CO  -^  "^*  -^  CD  O  -^  CD  --h'  r-I  X*  cd"  ■--  C4  CD  C^'  lO  u^"  cs'  oi  r--'  CO  t^*  ^ 
CSCOCSCSt*COC100CSr^COCDiOCCcO'C^COCOCSiOr^CSiOCSCS.-i^'-iCO'-i"*u5 


OOCOCSb-COOSiOQOC 


OOCS-^OtOO— '^CSCDOOXt^CD 


'^ioioaioO'OcDOcsooiCicococor-'^cococoio 


CO^CSiOO-^^CSCDC^lXi 


^00  —  coO'aioo-<^t^t^oocs-^^-*cDa) 


;t— lOi^'it'.incoici^rocoo-- 'c 


>  ^  CO  00  cs  lO  o  <-« 


OC0CS'!jHC0iCO--Ht^CS^OO^OOt^K:i00OOCS-H-.S'CSt0Oi000i0C0t^»0 


lo  Tt<  cs  Ti' CO       CD --1      cs  cs -— I  rri  rH  o  r^ 


— I  rf  OOCN        ,-1  —.  TP 


.utih-.t^I>"CDCSOt^05»^CSOS'<^0500aJCSiOCStO'^iOa>Tf^OOOOCSCO^OS 
<CSCO^t^OOi-taiOt-«OiO^CSaicDaiCOOOC500CSOO-^"^'-"OC5'-H*OOcD05 

>  CO  CO  00  CO  *o  --I  co'  o"  r-^  od  CO*  --H  cs*  o  rjH*  to  CD  cd'  r-^  CO  ^^  cs  cs'  CO  b^  cd  lo  CO  oi 
scSrH—ie — ■ 


)  cs  CO  !-•  ^  ^  CO  c 


»  CO  ^  CO  ■-<  -— I  CO  CO  ^  Tt*  ^ 


locsoscs-— i-rfcoiooi'^'O'-ocorocsooicooos'-ib-r^— 'O-rr-^oscO'-'Oit^'— I 
OioocDoo«^cscsaiO-^coxfCscDoot^cDr--'*'oooi-^aicD— 'cocor^ioosoco 

■^•"HOOOOOOO-— 't^OOt^COrO»Orr"i— itO-rfCOOieOCS'XCOiO^JlXiOCOOCC-^CSCO 

t^co  00  oT  rococo  CO      -^  ^  ui  c^  :^  t-^  vC  '^cs"t^odo      ai"co"cs  cs^od 


cs  r^  F-^  CD  r-* 


Cft         CO  CO 


OiCOlCSOSOSO-^OSiOCDiOOO'^CS 
coOcDTj<ioi>.QCiOTj<.XCOOiOcDt-cO 
CSTfOOCOCOCSOCOtr-iOt^-rt-COl-^O 

rr"o  i-rr^orcs  cs  CO      CO  ■^■^-H  c^o  :^^'" 

M  r-1  1— (         lO         I— <  t>-         coco 


iOt^COOOi^t--000 

iCSCSCDOiCOt^CSCOiO 

rr  CO  CO  CD  Oi  CO  ^ '^ 


■^  ^  Tt*  CO  00        Oi  CO 


iCS   Tt«  t^ 

i-^f  -H  cs 

lO  coos 

I  ^CO  CO 


lOr^OOCSiOCO'-tOOiOi'— 'OCOOOOOOiCOCOCDi— 'OOcD-^OO-^-^OSCOOSiOO'-' 

cot^O'^ai-^'^'^cDiccDooaicoxi'-Ht^Tr-t'oociiO'-^cocscDcDcor-oooooco 

CSE>-0000'»rCOOOI^Tr'^»OCDOt>-COOTfCOiOcDOOCSCOC^OOCOiOCOOcDOOCSCO 


CO  cs  t^  cs  00 


^  rt         CO 


t— cs  .-i- 


C0»O^0i^C000C0CSrt<OO^00i-t^Oi00C005C0r^cDC0CSr^t^C0t^-^CSC0?0 


00  O  00  00  O  CO  CO  -■ 

<  r*  o  CO  Oi  '"■  "" 

00  CD  ^-^C^"  00  C 


3  O  cs  r^  cs  00  — '  b-  : 


'OOOGOOOOCO-^oo-Tt^cDOOC 


r^iO'^'OO   t^i— I   csco-— "CO"— < 


■OCDCSOt^C0t-C0  05l^"^'-HiCC^J-^t^05'-<l>»COC000OCSiO 

00  ^^  o"  CD  oi"  »c  r-T  GO  w  lO  CO*' co' cs" -^  — r -tsT  cs  oi"  c^^  »o  oT  ^^  od  "^  ^ 


CD         ^  i-H 


^1-iiCCOCO        C^COTt< 


;r-:?iai-Hcoasr-r-ooco- 


-COOOOCOCOOiOCSCSTt^OO 


COOl-^OOCDOO'XCSt^OOCOr^OO-^-^OOTt^ 

cocot>-coioocD»ococo-HQCioo^r-:?iai-Hco_--    . .,    , ..    - 

oooocsciooo'Oooci'^t-ooot-'-coaii-o-^i^t-csooooioir^ascOTr' 


CD  CO  to  CO  --l 


OiOOlCO-rroO'^t^iOCOCSiOrj'iOOOOiO 


oir-t^ioco'OcO'-H'Ooocsocs 


ooo-— <t-*o      ocoTpcs-^cococscst'-cococstO'— 'oor--'— icooir-'^C5'-<^oor- 


i-H  cs  05  cs  O        CO 


.-I  --i      I^ 


ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo 

000000000000000000000000i00000»0000 
OOOC^OOOOOu^OOOCDOOtCCDOOOOOOOOSCC'^J'OOOOcOOlO 

lO  O  O  CD  O  »o'  -H*"  O*  C^f  O  O  lO"  C-f  LO  O*  rr  t^  00*"  cs*  O  O"  »C  lO  ctT  t^  — *  O  •-''"  O  O'  CO*"  '■^J^  o 

oioo;:j'ocsoO'-<co^ocscscsoxrT«^'^icot--cs      t^--o<roiocsroo— I 


CO  ^  lo  cs  cs 


^t^923?o^cscO'**<iocoi^ooosO'-'CscO'^»ocoi^aooso--'CscO'*iocDt:^oo 

OOOO^i-H^'-'i-HrH.-ir-.^^CSCSCSCSCSCSC^CSCSCSCOCOCOCOCOCOeOCOCO 


3068 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


r^O'^OOTfGOiO'^O 


OOOOi-hOC^C^ 

t^  r-  t-  t--.  h-  I--  t^  r- 


SOO<NO-<J<(NiOMTt<COGO 


iMOOO^<NOOOOOOOO'*lMO<: 


C^  Ol  CM         CM         CM  r 


QQ  ^  w  cc  <x:i  CM  1. 


J'^COt^cO^Ot'-OOCMOOO 


-t--r-t^r--r-r-r--h-t"-t^t-r^r-t^t 


C^O^O^OO— 'CMCM 

r—  t--  t-  r-  h-  r-  r^  t^  t^  !>• 

-      ■■«  OCM  O  O'--     ■■ 


CSCMrtCM^         C5CMiO'-irJ<C^CSCMCMCC»CCMCMCC         i-iCMCMi-iCMC^CMC* 


o>-' 


:^J 


UJ.:^.s.^'^s-^ 


SO, 


•9 .2  >  ^ 
MOOZOnoOtfOOFL,Di-?MS  "o 


:jo -:?;--==>  o 


S  •-  M    ,S     .0  --i-H  S 


3  a 
P50 


J3  O 

OS 


■"Z,^. 


-Os-^ 


S^< 


?5  -^  t^    (D  '-r'   i 


^^1 

d  Ok* 


3  S 


Cp-S^ 


'  fe  O  O 


;0 
Oo 


3  tm  o 


qO  03 


o 


^03  O  J,  O 


Q 


o  o 


O 


:.0 


5-Si59S^oOo?^n°Ou°oS'2o>o-So 


S^ 


■^^  ». 


3  caW^„<t; 


s  a  ®  OS  05 


>0»°3a2c8c*^«<uo3®^o 
g  ajj-    .~^x; J3  o^j3^  o^  ox: 


O  bD 

OS'S 

«<;  o 

■-■  o".2S  oH^^ 
Wr;  o3Mi:S^  <-l  » 

s£-3zi  g  goS-g 


■Sgua 

"^  2=3  8 
o^^  a 

o«  g^ 

^  ©  w  a> 
OJ3  oa 


r^i>-t^t--i^t^t>-r^i^oooOGOOOooooooQOooooo505C50iaiOiO>o»cso:oooooooooO'-4 


^3  ® 
M  3 


fOioocMCM'-'r^r- 


»r5*o^iOiOio*OiO«j.iio  *o 


Ot-hOO-— 'O-HCMOOCM'— 'O-— 'CMi— I— lOCOCOOOOOO 

,r^  lO  ir-i  lO  irt  lO  lO  lO  lO  vC  tC  lO  lO  lO  O  W^  O  lO  ^  ^  ^  i^  ^  *0  »0  --v  •--  --^  «w  — V  — ^  "-■  — -■  »»rf  *-.w  "^  "J  "rf  "rf  ••■rf 

^^  ^^CM  ^T-ieC.-*CM05  T-HCOCM        CM  CM  T-^ -^  CD  CO  CC  ^  CM         C^  CM  CO  CM  CO  CC  CO         t-h  C^ 


t-OOCSO-— iCMCO^iOCDt^OOOlO 
CMWC*<COCOC0C0COCQC0CCCCCOt»< 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3069 


»o  c^  00 -^cs  ■'t^  CO  Oi  c^  00  00  cc  CO  o  c^      loooooor^t^oor^-^^o 


ooo 

O  CD 

t^  r^  t^  t^  t^  o  t^  i^  r 

^H»-i-rt*C^O»OCOCOi 

CD  t-t  cs  cs  c^  r^  c*  cs  ' 


c-ioc^oor^i^-^— 'I 

<  OOOi  ^  — 'C 


.CD^-<0500  O-^^-'CDC^lCOO^J— 'C , 

JOOOOO^  ^  ^  01  o  ^  o  o  ^  o  ceo 

.  1^  r-  r^  r^  t^  r-  t^  t^  i^  t^  t^  r^  r^  1^  r^  I'-  r- 

hOOO  rJ4  00  CD  00  •-<  ^  CO  CD  CS  C^  ^ 


rH  (N  C<»         CCCOCO        C^         (N 


•9'> 


:z;2 


> 


;  a  ta  a"  ^ 
.9  9  §- 


a  X-      .  .  - 


»5ijSocUOCD       "5  c3J3  2  O  O     •  J3  S  O-O 


■^  OJ  cu  - 


O 

.°  o  ox: 

■g  -  ■*  •  -  °3  o 
CO  5.2;  £  a^. 9 


ol 


a  o 


r-=  t!  -e  ^  £  s 


^w;S  »  3)  aj  CD 


W^H  o  o3'j^  t^'T 
a>  >  oAia  2  2° 

eowm5<ico 


cu  n'C-H 


=  M  O 


QiO  >  3  » 


^CSCC'^iOCDt^OOOlO^'MCO'^WOCDt^        OOCIO^CS 


^^^,-«^^^^^<M(MCSC<)CSCS(NtM        (MCSCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCO 


s-r-^r^ojOi^ocDooOTt^t^aiC^ooo-^coooccooio^ 

5— HCitOOCOOOCDOOCD-^aicCOOit^iO^COCftC^COCOC^ 


(MOO^OOtOiO— HCitOOCOOOCDOOCD-^aicCOOit^iO^COCftC^COCOC^ 

cor^^csoicDoor^o-H'00-Hc^r-HCD^r^fMOc^oooioc^"<^oootM 

r-^OOO^ClCS— 'r-.OOOOC^^O^0C^1"'--<CD0O^'N'-^OO 
I0i0i0*0t0»0»0i0'0ici0i0»0»0»0i0'coio>0i0i0'0»0i0»0"^0*0*0i0 

i^  t^  t^  t^  I--  t^  t^  t^  t^  t^  t^  r^  1^  r^  r^  o  t^  t^  r^  t^  i^  r^  r^  i^  t^  r^  i^  r^  r^  r^ 

^HOlr-iCSCDfNC^'— ICSiOCCOOOC^r-iOCOCCCOiOOOt^^-'COC-'     — ^^  —  — 


■I  ^  C<1  CD  CO --^  CO        CO^C 


CD  Oi  CD  O 


IN  rt  .-1 


3CH 


«► 


"S^ 


6  o  oT  MS  co'2; 

5  S.9  -^S- 05^3  o  £2  gS|5^^  £  3  >  £^  oSf^-a  2 
pq«fn:2;mfi,g:z;gooPH^pHOPHm-<OcoP-iP3ii:z:a!rto>SfqO 


03  a 
11 

0.2.g 

CO 


O 


aa 

6  .S  ^  c  5  «  "s 
3  a-o  »  □  °3 


J—  ,50 

J    r  °  6  o 

.  ^  >-.    '  o 
t-i  ©  ca  a> 

§■3  oW 
1  o  t.  g  a 
,OP5  §  I 

co<0  P5 


5^°" 
o  03  o  S 

■  9-2 -«  3 

•J    ^    CD    t- 


0.0 
oif 


at: -co 
-S|^  a 

axii:  « 


"  o  ^,  ,  . 

^^  g« 

lfa§S 

O  SJ  o 

ca*o."  -'  - 
^  03  > 


°-£f5ao 

*^'OS>  3 
W  o  ■  C  a  ° 


3070 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 


•fi  a' 


CO  CO  to  CD  QO 


l-H         i-H  CS(N 


OO  «0  ^  CO  ICO 

M  O  ^  00  Ot-^ 

CS  t-^  I>^  CO  O  05 


t*  CD  I>- CS  CO  CO  00 

cccs    lodcccococ^od 


OCOCOCO'r}«^CO*000'^rOI:-^CDiOCOCOU^iOCJO'-«CSCOOCX<NO^OlC^ 

r^oJccc^'C-T}''->:}5o-HTf^aJco-^— ^    '■^'^"oto<M*odxr^^cot^to»0'«jH 


00  r^co  ^      i-i  CO 


5  40  cs  t--        iO  C^  CO 


t^CDOOO-— '•-''^C0c00000<>*C000^C^00a>'*OC0aiOCO»0--u0C^CS 

':0'OcN^co'^ooor^c^co»ocDoir^r^oiooscocoO"*oo<MOOoocsi 

■^COr-^t>.t>-t--COCOOiOOC^tOt-»OOCO'— •lO'-l-^OMCClOOOCO^-'— lOSN 

c^ct>r     00  uf  coco ^^od 00 CD ori>^.-H"c^-<jr^,-H  r-^*ooo^oco -^cs o 


i  lO  ^  CO  ■«*<        ^ 


OO         OOCS  »C  1-4 


lOOOOOOOOOOOt^OOOOcOOCOOt^OOOOOOOO 
CMOOOOOOOOOOrCOOOOccOCO'OCOOOOOOOOO 


00  00  O  lO  o  o  ^  ^ 


iOOOOOOOO^OTfO^OOOOOOOOO 


Tt^t^coooo^'^o'ooocD»oico'^'<TOas'^r.oooooo^^ 

COO'-'fM'-O         iOt^<NOiOr^CO<NiO         OSC^COt^rJ'OOO— ".-HOCSrH 
€«-i-i<N         CS         CO  (M  C^»  .-H  ■-•         C^        -'f         <M         r-i  .-.  Tt-  CO  O  C^I 


oo»ooiMh-oot^'— <xroO"^cn— 'lOoo— 'coooc^cor^coi^^-ioc^t>.co 
(NCsco'McocoiMTfOOt^-^r^co'Moocoo-ro^t^'ror^co-^OiCoo 

t-^"^*^oeococofort'od»OTt'coco-^cd--^'cscsoo--«'icococdai-^cdoi 

rH^^C^— t(Nr-.C0«-HO'-<'-^"^-^"^<N<N<MC0  ,-*(NC^,-H^lO— ti-Hi-t 


O  Oi  —• 


CO«OOC<IOC^OeO*0«-H|^^CT>05COCOt>.C00500-^<NCOCOCOCO^-^C^ 

■^OOCOC^t>»COOOCOt>«Ot>-COCO'-HCOCDC^CO"^'-Ht>-'^CO"^OiOCSt-"'-i 

r-li-li-lC^ICOCO'-<CO-*'-'r-l         ■<*<Tr''^(N(Nr-<t>.i-(iCC<ICOC^t^00'-HCOlN 


,-1  -^  rt  <N  -H  CO  "  >0  -H  N  r-1  rH  00  00  00  CO  CN  (N  "O    >-C  CO  N  1-1 -H  l-H  rH  i-(  N 


OJ  J  ,    «^  -1-^  -^  *^ 

t;  2  a  a  c  0-. 


^•5:8"' 


ooco'*t^-^<Nccco»oooo03oai'MC<i-^^r^05-^c^ai^-cr)»ooirDco3i 


coc^xcscoooooor^^cot 


■'^^C^CO'OOiC^OOX' 


o  t^  t^  fo  i; 


'lOCOOi"*'— "OiOOOOiOCOt^OlTfOOt^— <— "OCICOCOI^ 


CSI,-H--H(MC0'*'-HCOTt<<NC^rH00t^Cfi«C0'--i(N.-iiOC0TpCOr^cO(NCO'N 


"A"^ 


"S'W^ 


ICOCO^DOOO-Ht^COtOO-^COiOCOOOCOCOOifOiOfOCSCOCOO-HC^ 


CO^HCOOtO  —  rococo— iCO'OCiCftC^OC^O-l'CiGC— I'^-^Oi 


.t^OOi^CsOOSOOiOt 


t^  O  00  1-1  — 4  (M 


t^o-^io— 'Ocoxo^ccco-^ocDoo^pco-^or^^ccrxi^Xi^asco 


OOCO^COi— 'C^^^Ht^MTJ< 


00  — 1 1^  e^  c<i  lo 


C  «  H  g 

VPS?.; 


Of3 


COO>*OCqC<IOSC^COC^J00'-Ht^'^00COCOOlCS'*'C^'— 'OOrOC^OCO-— 'i-hM 
00t>.'-<i-(00t^OaiOCDTj<C0CS"»*'05t^0l05t^'— <*^'^C^O'^00>-'C003 

COCSi-H 


00  t>- 

ocoo6c6cocdcoi-i(Nc6coco'03t<ob^ 


ilC'-Hi-lTt^Tt^'^CSC^ 


r-(M^oo:)'^oco'^<Nt^oO'^co^or--ooiocDOoocoooc^t^*or-co 

iOC005t--CSO»Oai03T)HCOCOCO'-'OiCOCOOCOCOOOt^OlOTfi— 'COb»0^ 
OOOOiOO^C^)t--00'^CO(NCD'^COCOCOOO<NCO*OOCO:D^CO^Cnr^OS 


CO -^  Oi  t^  ^  Oi  r^  C^  Ol  00 '^  (N  05   <M 
l-H,—.    C^    iO      COi— iTp    CO   CO 


00  — '  CO  CS        00  -^  CO 


Oi*— iCOCOOOOC^COrj^r-.fOiO'MiOO'rt* 
O-^OO— tiOOiCOClTfOlOJOiOCOCOO 
TpiOI^OCOCS-^'^t^COt^iOOOCO-^CDOO 


iOiiO'O         lO-^i-H-rft'.'— •(N'-H 


iiOCOOCCOiOC^iOCOCO 
i.-HioocOOiiO'— tCDC<J 

iCOOOOCN*"        t-^OoT 


00-^»Or--00'^On'OOXOiOC!i-^CO 

TjH(Noo«:>^iooococriair^r^co^»o 
■^ocscoc^ioo'^cccNTj-otocoai 


ifooocscD»oc^Tt<c^r>.ioo-^t>. 

COOOlCOCOC^iOCO-^COC^'-HOi 


t  O  CS  t-  ^  Oi 


l-H  lO  ^   ' 


'Tf  CM  — •  Tji  — I  CS 


^  -^  h^  CO  -^  01  o  t^ 

OSt^^COOOCMOCM 
00»C'^CO(MOO»OiO 


-. ^'OCMoOOOOSCDCO^-^OOtOCOCOiOO^OiOOO'' 

CMOCMcoioo— 'too— 'coait--t-^cDcooir-*— '-^r-Oico-- 

__     .     _         lOOCMt^CD^TfOOoOOiMcOCOOJOOi' 


t^-oo^ocooo-— 'COcoc^co-^Oi'-'OsOOcocot^'— "lor^co-^t^cooiCMr'- 

«3ii-i  O5■<*'^*CO.-H00lO■— i-^COOi-— tCO         •— t—fOOCOCOOl        i-tCOOO 


■rj^coCMOCD'-'O'roOOOCMfNO'— iQOOC 

>— «Doaiot— Tt"iocftOiotcoo»oasoc_    ._    . _    —    , 

t-.cotoO'-Hair^co^'^oocoococMO— 'iooocscMOcooo5C7iai'5f 


._    ,  ci  — '  o -^  r^  o  1^  CM  CM -*}< 


OCMOOOOOO'-<iOCO-Hr^-rf>or^COO--i'<?<i 


5  O  ^  CO  CM  '^i  - 


Tf'-»C0CM05C0'Xi'--<t^00O'— 'CO-d^OCOOt-.t^CMUDO'^tO-^^r^CMCO 
»Oi— i-rTi-H         coco-— '--t         '—I         CO        lO'-HCO-HfO'-H  iCtJ* 


lOOCMOOOOOOOOt^-OOOOOOcOOr—OOOOOOOO 
t-»O0lOOOCDOOOOC0OOOOOOC0»O00OOOOOOOO 
I— •OOOii'^OOTf'OOOOOOOOOOOWO-^OOOOOOOoO 


OO  b-  O  00  o  o 


D  o  o"— '  icooooo'^fr-oooooo* 


COOCOCM»OOCOOCS10tOOOCOOOCOOCM-^r>--^000'— irHOCMCM 


CMr-<T*<^  CMCMr-lr-f  —I 


CM        .-H  i-irj<  CO 


»-iC'Jco'^*ocor>-ooo>0'— "CMco'^iocof^oooiOr!;£^J2 


C^ICMCMCMCMC^CMCMC* 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 


3071 


t--  CD  — »  O  CO  -^  O 

CO  CD  •'t^  OS  o  CO  r- 
-tj'  r^  — <  <m'  CO  o  i-H 

C^  -rp  O  CO  to  CO 


CO  oi  OS  CD  t^  00  ro 

-rf*  O  -^  -5^  O  O  40 
t^w         (MO  f-i 


OO  OOOOO 
O  O  OO  O  O  O 

ooooooo 


O  CO  00  iC  CD  GO  O 


COOCD  OOOOO  CD 
O  '-<  C^l  OS  to  CO  "^ 

O  id  t^  CO  --H  "i  CN 


IC  CS  C^  '<*'  CSI  00  O 

id  r-^  CO  --^  oi  oi  oi 

i-<  00  t^  00  --<  '^  1-1 


i-H  00  O  CO -^  OS  c^ 


C^  CO  CO  Tji  (M  CO  CO 


CO  !>.  -^  CO  00  OS  C^ 

■^  t--  00  r-  lo  CO  cvi 

o  ■n^"  c^  00  "d  id  CD 

M  C>1  O  t^  CS  CD  iM 

r-t  ^(M 


i-«  t^  C-)  CO  CO  ■**'  lO 

■rp  r^  o  lo  o  r^  CO 

(N  O  ^  O  CO  O  ^ 

cT  o'  CD  CD  »d'  OO  r^r 
OO  cs   CO  r^  lo 


VO  n*  >— '  CO  (N  CD  r-- 
«-<  O  00  OS  OS  t--  CO 

■«*<'  O*  O  TjJ  tsJ  CO  t-^ 
C^)  CO  C^  CO  (N  W  C^ 


lO  — t  CO  O  00  t>*  CD 
^  C^  (N  CS  r^  OS  (N 

■^  CO  ^  O  ■-<  b-  lO 


00  00  (N  CO  00  C^l  ^ 


OS  o  c^  r^  OS  40  o 

^  Tt*  O  CO  OO  C^  00 

r-  c^  00  CO  OS  oi  00 
CN  i<  ^ -"i^  CO  CM  r-T 

CM    _  CD  -^    .-» 


CO  -H  ^  CO  OS  CM  CD 

OS  00  CM  CO  00  r--  -^ 

CD  CM  CO  CO  .—t  to  CO 
lo'— i"   00-^'   CO 


r-  X  00  OS  CO  i— '  00 
—"CM   o  CO  ^  r^ 


OS  00  ^  CM  I--  Tt^  OS 
-^  OS  OS  C^l  C*l  OS  CO 

to  a^  c-i  ^  lo -^ -^ 

■^  t* '-'  O  — I  CO  lO 

-*    »o  00   c5 


OO  ooc  o  o 
ooooooo 
oooo  t^oo 


^  'Xf  lo  CM  00  o 


f-i  .— I  CM  OS  OS  h- 00  CM  lO  CM  O  OS  r-i  O  1-H  OS  CD 

i-HOSC'lCDO  ■^O'-HOCOOlCCt^-HOOOSO 

t--t-tOCOO  CMOSOcO-^t--"^— iiOCOCMOO 

Or-^.-.^^  00O"'-h0'— iO--H^i-HC^» 


-r-t^t^t-,       t^r>.t-i^r 


5  »C  lO  lO  lO  lO  ' 

t~-  r-.  I-.  w  t^  t 


ooosoototo       cocOtot-r^cDcot^r^CMf 

■^  CO  •-*  lO  f— «  .-H  CO  ■*  ,_,  1— (  'r"  — 


a 


"J   oi  I,   ~     ^ 


2  c  « 


-^^ 


Ph 


i5    ■?; 


i^-!S~   y^O   Dt^HH 


^j3§o^    ^muiUi^ja^^'zo'Snb 


5  o  d 

'-J  t;  _  »  t- 
o  a  c  aj 

■Sit.  =  a  = 
^  Sin's  i=to 


S  3 
•oP3 

Ho 
;[i]  m  t. 


goo       _ 

50  o. on 
.  -SO  . 

tD^-^'^  a^  g  opq 

m    .  o  gW-O  o  53-- 
Sfc(  »^  en  f'  m  *^ 


M  (M  C^  C^  (M        IM  C^  C>»  O)  !N  CO  CC  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO 


o  ^^  c^  CO  Tj.  ir>  CO 

CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO 


C!ic0OC^^0  03^HC00i^OC<llO^O^Ot^cOX) 

crio^cocC'*c^o^r^io-^-<j'coc<it^(MO" 

OCOC^OOO^O— tt^OOO— 'OOw^O 
C^  C^        CO  C^  CO  CO -^  CO  ^  ^  CS  C^  CO  ^  CO  CO  CO -^ 


r:_2<u3^cu«goOca:;iomS 


►^^ 
mS 


Q(g 


03  2  O  ' 

5!.SO.: 


»  ca  a 
•a -a  5 


C3  ^ 
O    ^ 


fe" 


a  o 

■So 

•?,  0^  o 

§.9o 


O  o^      _ 
i^O<i  O  o 

03  o--;  o  02 


O? 


-  ^.  c  «  r 


tjoO 

o  P  cfl 
a  J  °cD>^se 


S  95-a  S 
KhJQWo 


HCMCO'^tOCOt-'-OOOSOr-tCMCO'^iOCDt^: 


3072 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


ii  a  2h 


w 


§  '^  o  -§  -^  2 

"  *3  g  a  o  5 

a>  n  n  rt *^^ 

CLh^  g  o  « 


CO  Oi  00  o  o  00      CD  CO  r^ 

CCtOfMt^oOOO        Oi  <iD  Oi 


or^co^-«^coa)ioosocoa>0(N-^t* 


+j  Q  CO 


O-— iaiiO»OCDCDCOCOWCOO»OiOO'^^Ht^iC'^OiC^COOt^^OO 

oior-'-icO'— 't^oooooscc'<x>'^ooc<ic^coc^'<*'c^u:)»0'^-^oooo 

•^OCCiOCDOOCSoOC^OlOOCC-^t-OOCCCC^ClO-^rOlC^OOCOCO.-) 


•^■^OOoOOOOOrHOO'MCO.-lOSiOC^Oit^iOOOiOiOiOCOCOCOC^t^ 


«&t^(N        .-H  C 


^.-i00CSi-<--<O--'r-iO':D 
CS  CO        ^  ^ 


oooooooooo 
oooooooooo 

COOO'-'OOCOOOOO 


coioO'~-<oocoou:i-<^ 

^C^Oi-Hr-li-HOlCOCCt-* 


OOOOOOOOOOlOOOOOOOO 

gooooooooc:oouoooo»o 
TjHO'-<00000'riOOOOOO"0 


-^  t^  t^  Tj<  »0  t^  i-H  i-t  Oi  CO        ^  CD  ^  "O  1-t  <-( 
C^  lO        00  *0        CO 


!^  g  o  o  «  S-; 

.S  C3  ^         Ho 


^  J  g  o  o  «  S  •g_S 


COCCCOCOC^wcoCOW^J-^-^Oit^OO-^OO-rfOMOOC^OifNCC^OSO 


<(N  r-l  MCO 


tf     .  ei  i  tjO  ^  ^- 

Ph 


05000S'^iO(MC0OOCCOf-<00'-HCX><NrHCC0SCCO'O»O^-^aJt^Tj« 

c^'  c^  00  as  o  CO  oi  ci  c^'  o  ^'  00  c^'  o  r^'  o  •'j^'  CO  «ft<  OS  o  cc  ai  00  o  «o  ^  'i^ 

T}HTj*iO'«1^00^^C^OOC^C^^»-H^eO-^CO(NC^irtOOC^<Mi-tC*DI^'-<CO 


rt  O   C^ 


05CO-*OCCt^M!M05t^(NlC^CCC^r^»0-<J^'*(M0500iOffO>^^'<J^ 

^05oO'^M'^^Ht^cO'^'<i*c^o^^Ha5t^r^ot^"^»oosooco^i(Noo 

»n'  CO  t>.'  00  ^'  •'S^'  O  ^  »0  «  — J  oo'  -^  «d  O  CD  **  ed  00  •-«  ^'  ^*  oi  OS  W5  N  l>i  o 


'^  e  S  =^5  2 
oj  i^  g  ce  ti  "^ 


t^OOCrs":)iOcOiOiO^COO(NcDOlo0^cD^r'-'^OOC^(NI^'-' 


00O^":!iMiO00^<-«C0'^C^CD'<J'i:^C0cCC0-^0i^' 


^  CO  ^  o  »o 


OoO'-Ht^cOC^i— '•^OOiOCiOiOOOu^O'M^^aO'— 'C-lOit^C^MCOC^C^ 


iOcDI>.iOOiO(MiMC 


I  04  ^  t^  »0  r^  rj*  C 


(N  rl^   _4  ^  W 


OlOOC^'— 'C004COOSC^»0 


-  i 


bJo[: 


9  <y 'o  .5  ^ 


<N<MC0iCO0i'-'Ot^00^0001-<*<CDO'*'00-^O05C0(NCDi0C0Q0-H 
cDcDt-HOOOCS-^aiOO-^t^OascDC^"^-- 'OiOicCiO-^t>-cDCDO^ 
Oi0a5'^OcDC0t'-iO00O'-'C0»O"^c0c0«0T}'OO00t-00«0C000C0 

CD  CO  CO  uri"  00  ^  t^  CO  o' ^^  CO  00  oj' cs"  t^  cs"  lo  00  c  " 
€^iOto  1— t  CO      c<i  1-H  00  — I  r— M      T 


a'5  a  «f^ 

j_  ^-^  gas 


Or^-^iOr^OiCMOSCOWOSCDt^OoO'— icOOS-^CDCOCOCSCOOi'^OiO 
»OOC<li-HC0iOC0C^0iC40S'-'C0P0OC-00i0C^'— '01QO»Or-<OSCOCO"^ 

lO r^  t^ ^* CO  c^  1-^'  CO  »o  t^ »o  o  t^ od  c^' -^  03 05  c^ "^^  00 c^  r-*  OS  tc  t^ 00  M^^ 

r-tCOi-<,-li-lTP.-l  CQC^  i-t^COCO— <r-(rHi-lC^^(NN.-l  i-«CMCO 


c^ 
H 


o  o  ^ 


^  g  ^ 


>  5*^ 


c^05co-<**ior'»ooco--''-H-^iooor^j^Ocoioc^cor^oocO'^»— 'lOosco 
-— ^rt^^-o^-(^^ooc^cDOsc^05^^":3colO^-■Tt^c*^ooco^^t-05'^'^^co 

•-iiOtNOSCScOOi-^iOcOi-HOiaiC^C^OCOOt^^O'^OOSC^Wjt*^ 


1-1  w  (N         ^00-^         ^  CD 


1-1  F-i  C30  C^  CO  C^  i-<  "^  CO  i-H  0>  lO         CO -^  lO 
»0        .-H  COCO        00  CO        lO 


COi-*00'rf(M»OCDCOTt<lO 
(MCCCNiOCDOOfMC^OC^ 

t>.  >— <  lo  io  r-"  00  "^      c^i  »o 


t--  (M      o  ":> 


CO'^iClOOiOt-CNuOcOOJOlOO'^ 

oococoas'-«co'«*^oO'<^c^Tj«t-* 

«5j*^O'-*00t-tO0S'^00'-«C0i— « 


f-H  CO  r^  t>.  -^  » 


lO  -^        CO  ■■ 


C000i0OC0(NC^C0r^CD'»*<(N-^CN'<*<i0c0C0t^C000gS00O'-'C0C0O 

00— •"^lO'-Hrt^cocO'-icoasc-^OJ-^-— icoco-^os-^coocsoosaiioco 
co'^pt^coot^co'^rco'-i— iiOtoiMi-<coco"^t-oc'  -^   * 

coco  ci"        r-T^  lOi-T'^'-r  r-Tt-        w. 


<»C0t^00(N'-'t^CO 


■^.-HCOOiiCcOOScOOOOSiOCOt— "HOO'Ct— COCOcDCD-— •oOOcO'-Jh^t^ 

r-'-'ooooc^io^'^<NcDcooor^'— 'ioo5ascO'-Hiooi»-<*oiooocor^ 

.-i.-i^COCO(NCSC^O'*rC^-^COOOt^'-ta>*OIMcD'-H(NOOOOOOOOiOt^ 
■«&00t^       (NTT*    CO  C^       1-1  CO  (N  00  CO  r-i  T-1  CO  CO    .-h  ''J*    ^^^ 


^fooo-^oos-^iM— <cocoo"^'^'-*r~*ooiooot^ooc^o-^cooo 

MfNt^O'-H.-i— lOSOcDOit^r^cOOOir^'-''— i'-*cOiOcDM»-«»0'— "00 
OCOO-rPr-.'itJ^aiO'— •t-O00O00'-«c0C^c005C^Tf'-HOC000  0:'^c0 


00  — '  OS  cs  c  _ 


3  O  "— '  O  O  -^  CO 
<  i-H  !--.  Tt*  C^  t^  ^  CO 


^    04  ^    ^ 


>OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCiOOOOO 
)OQOOOOOOOOOOOOOOQi£?QOOO 
JCOOOOO^OC^O'—OOOOOOiCOOOOOO 


r-.00  -^  oc 


-H<NO'-''-t'-'ascoc<i.-H 


r^  r-- -^  lO  r^  CO  lO  OS  *o      o  co  «— i  * 


i~iCsco'<t^»ocDt^ooasO'-'Csco'^»ocor^ooosOi-H£4£o;3;»{5«o^-oo 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3073 


'  t^  OS     1  OS      I  Oi  ^  00  OS 


I  CO  CO  ■^    ( c^  o  b- CO  r^    I  o  o  ^^  CO  t^ 

1  lO  t^ --<      .  00  ^  »0  Tt< '^t*      .  CO  ^  i-H -X)  CO 


■  1-H  N(N        ..-H  O  --H  (N 


C^  -i  11-H 


tOcoi^— tr^r-r-M^o^or-.—'ost— cocsoor^c^oi'^OTr-^c^co-^ai-^co 
r>-Trco'OtDC^osO'-*ioO'-«'-Hcoor--ooc^oo-^csoocsososiot^05CooocO'-< 

c4■^*co"■^■^co'^^■-*■^fc^oo6cDF-;^/5o■^o^^w^-Ios0^^eo■^'o^^■^oi'--*Q^ 

COCS^CO     I    t^OC^         "^COcO'-<'-<CSCOC^C^CS'-iC^iO(N00C^        CO-^i— I'-HOl'— I 


COOO"^COC^OX30C^OiOCOOt-*^'000"OC^'*<MOOiO-rt*OSClCD01COOO(NCOOi'0 


CO  Tf  OS  c^  ■-7*  o 


jcvjiooc^ooo:— «c 


^QO^I'W^JOOtMCO^OOC^OO-^COCDCO 


ooooro-^ooTj^coxcoiOTfiT^O'j'O'^Tt^rHOoasr-cooi 


H  CO  CO  Oi  O 


1— IIOQO-— <C0C;-^0S*O'D0 
(M  '-'  ^  _  00  ^ 


rft-OOiOr-:DC>)-— iCOOOOiOOOC^'M.— i(X)b-'*<^^OS 


iOOOOOOOOOOOOOO»OOQOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
lOOOOOOOOOOOOOiMC^OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
i'-H(NOOOOt^OOOOOOOtM00OOC^OOOOC0asOOOO'"'OO 


-O— 'CHOCS'— <>Jt'0'C»COi— I.-. 


^OOOt^COOOi-'OGOOiO 


0>CCOOOt^000050iOOt^^C^'*OOOOTj<Tt<.-ir^OSO"HOCDCOOOCOOSCO— >05-^ 
C^C^eOOSlN'— tt^CSOOO^iOCOOOCDt--t'-tcO'-HCO'— '.-t»00'~'OOCD>-HCO«OcOOO'-H 

ioosc^c5i^"^iO!OQdos03CDo-^ioos"6^odod'^"Tt5'-Hu^iO'-Hoi'^'io^ 

—  -         ■      ■         -^      ■       ■ ■*      '--------iC^iO— i(NC^CNi-HCOi-irH^c5c<I        COi-H 


«^(N^'-H^CO»0'-»i-<i-iT 


i-HCD050ooo^ooc^ooTf05>ccoo-^r^oosr^coTr'— '05'-H-H00tooo»0'— 'O'^'Tf* 


'^05-^03'<J^Ot-^0i<M— '.— .<i0tOO500iXt^C^C^» 


'CO^Oi— 'OOS'^'-H 


;D»OrOOOC^»OC^OOGCCOOC5CO^^^Oi»Ot^COfOCO-^00'— 'CDC^I-^' 


,— (i--r-t^oc4'-H'^ioc^c^iCC^'^csc^cO'— icot^coc 


5iM^COt^CS<-HiO'-t 


t^c^osoo-- 'Cvjoor-r^O'Ort^ioiocooosc^icosaiOicoosC'j.— ios<Mcot--csiooo 
f-tco>— itcicocor^»c<coiOi^— '*Oi— •-!*'acoooocoo5r-<ocooooo<Dt^osoi»oo 

cDt^Trtooood'-^coTroaicit-^oi^Qdt^osc<jcDcoh-^o6t->^csui':D^^'-Hc^ 


1-1  ■«?<  IM  I>-  (N  ^  ' 


,   -H   ^   — .   (N   ^   r-.  C 


HCOC^C^i-HiOCS^i— I'^^C 


COO'-'O^D'-HC^OCOOOaO^t^COI^Cq'— «CO'*Ot--OOS'-H'^OiOt^OiCOOSCOOCO 
^as«DiO>-H"5t^U3000t^«?'^05CO'-Ht-CS?OOOCOOSCOr-(OOOOi-HO^r*COiOiO 

^-ic4oi»oo6^ood'-^colO"^o6c4^cc5o^^>^cdo>oo6c^i^^wu51-Hosos!Dcd 
T-ic^t^(^r*Wi-4iot^coc^<©eo»ocseo'*'-icOwNcoco«coWi-Hcqr^co'-«c^c^oO'-H 


OlCOfO-^-— <i— ifOOOOCOOS'OCO—'-H'MOCOb^OOCOCOC^CO'-'C^lCO'OOOCOC^OaiiN 


100000COOOCO'^OOOSO-+''^05 


^-CO-^Tt^COOO— 'C^Jh-t-.i— i-^»Ot^ 


ooos'^cs^or-iOTt<ooooooocoosO':Dt^cou:!iooc<it^cocO' 
WTf^"■^(^fcood"»o»cco»OTJ^^oc4"o^■^cs"corJH■cowfc^od 

05  1-t  CO  r-<         !>.  C*^  CO  O  lO  .— I  ■-^  1-H  »0  i-H         CO  *0  •— <         CQ  t-H  CO  »-t  t^ 


OSOOOOiTfCOOO'^^t^O'MCO—'OCOOSOSOOh-'^COOOC^'— 'COCOOlC^C^COr^iO 
OlC^COOiOS'J^COt-C^tO'^C'lt--'^'— 'rtit^OJOSOOCOOO-^OC^r- tot-^>— lOCOOOO-^ 

;:ooc-i»oodoicoioiocdc^(x5c^*oJicococoTt<c^»ccdoc4 


ICOOt^iO-^CO'OCOO'- 


(N  lO  --H  .—).-.  ^ 


f^  CS  r-tCO  CS 


■^OCOOO-^iOC-JOl— 't-O'-'Tt^OC^ICDOSr-OOW^iM'— iOC^Tt<»fCOO'N'^00»OOS 
OOOOt^OsC^'^COC^-HCS.-HO'*'-^CDC<IOOa5COF-HtO^*^C^OCO<yDOOOOO)l^050S---t 
,-»:OCO'— 'OiOOS'— 'OOSCOGOC^OOi— lOfNC^'-Ht^t-^fO'^OOOCOiO-^iO'— I-— «t-c^ 

00  c<r  «:r  cs  ^  00  — r     ^"cocTc^cood         coc^corj^     1-HtCfo      -fi^^oo  T-To  <-r 


OOOXCDiO'^— |»>.OO^^C005 
C0l->-iMOCM^CNt^'r>OQ001C0 

00  »o  OS  i~-»  OS  o   ■n' t— o  »o  tM  OS 


.-.  CO  --H   CO  r 


i-t  Oi  CO  00  (M  to 


oot^'— I-— <or^o»ocD-^ioosiot^c^ 

t^OC-^OOtOOiO^OOS-^COiOiCTPI^ 
b-tOOCO-HCOiOCS^t^OOiM^OSCO 


cs  "-H  o  CO      r-»  CO  f'.      c^  TjH  00 


^ocooocot'-cot^t-ofo— 'rf'ioot— osr~-ooO'— 'OOtO'^osO'— 'h-iccooor^ 

OOCOOOOSCOCCO"ti00005<NOOp;HGOCSTj'OSCOrfrPOS«3t^OSe0005TtHiOrH-.S<T*i-tt^ 


oocooooscoccooooooscsoO'-'aocsTj' 

i-HOCNl^O'^OCOCDCOtNCO'^OThOOr^ 


C^C^COC^CDOsC*^i— tio.-<cot-t^osooouo 


COCOCD— '— 'CSOOCSOt-COtO-^tOh-fCOC^-n'CO— < 

r^c^ior>.-^"^--'0'oo»ococ^o^cD<NoscOioco   , 

OCOOO^iOCOt^t^OOOSOO-^OSCOOI^OiCSTrCOCSlcoCO 


lOCOCOfOCOO  —  COiOCOOOtJ^^h 
"'■OOCOCOCOOO'— 'CDXJOOCOiOOs 

—  —  ■OTt^cor-t^Tj*— iiot-t-- 


"^COOS^OOCDC^t^TtiCD— 'OlCDCD— •TjiCOOOC^C^Ol'^r^C^iOCC'-'I^Ot^COCs" 


T-l  -rji  y^         OSOO  OOOICO'— IIO 


(N  X  "-H        I^Os  CO 


CS»OC^OiOCOO»JOC^(NOOCO'*COCOCDTrosCOCOOOOb-.COO^fO^OOCOC^CS.-'0 

o— it^o-rooojcO'-'0«^^c^»oooor-osoocoooo-t'oo-^^Hr-.coc^-H— ^(Xio 

OCDOCMCSoOOC^IOO'^r^OOOSCO'-^COCSCOC^— <CNOCSCDC^t>--Ht^C^00t-^CO00O 
Os'Tf-'o^jTcOi-r^O^OOOrcOCOiOOodtO'^QdcOOrcOC^"'-^ 

I-"  c^  cN   OS  t^  o  c^  00 -f  cs  T-H  CO -^  Tf*  CO  r^  cs  .-H   CO -^  t^  ^  CO  r^ -H  Tji  Qo  Tf  CO  OS -^  »o 


C^  ^  CO  — i 


(M  t^  CO        (N 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOlOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


__000OO0O000000C^C^10O000OCDO00000000O 
CDO-^(NOOOOOOOOOOOO^r^OO<MOOOOCOCOOOOO— 'OO 

i-<C^  CSr^O— •C^OC*^  —  i-O'OtOiOOCO'-H        iO»Ot--'— •OOOCOCOOO'-hiOOO^OiO 


OSOi— «(NC0'^w^t0r*Q005O<— 'C^CO'^uOCOI'^OOOSO'— <C^CO"«*<»OCDh»OOOsO'— <C4 
WCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCO--»'-^-^tjH-^Tfi'i^^'^Tj<uOiOiOiC»r3»OiO»0»0»OCOCOCO 


3074 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


M  3 


OOO^OfOfMO'-^t^O^OOOOOCOt^CO'-'OOOfCOC^jT-.^OcO 


t^  r>  t^  t^  r^  t--.  t^  r>- 1^  t--  i^  (^  t--  t^  I--  r^  t^  t->.  t^  r--  r--  r^  r-  t^  i^  r^  t^  i^  t 


1-H  ^  .-.  CO         (N  CO  ^  CO  ^  CO  ^  fC 


(M  CO  r-*  ^  CO  CS 


^.^'cl 


c3  O 


>^ 

a 

s^ 

a 

O 

rn 

u 

■^fl 

tb 

i^ 

'-' 

ix:  o 
?3a 


lQ-< 


C  3 


03  oi  C3 


»  te  o  c— I 


Q  03 

s  s  =*  * 


-  03  SrsK  ; 


O   03    O  S 
3  Wj  ^  ^^ 

i  g  e  3  c 


o 


d  o 


s6 
Is 


s3  O  O^— . 
3  1.?  <D-K  OJ 


''2  gs2>S  d 

S'^    .d,  t/3  a  m 


'-  ""■  x:  ax:   .  x:  o  c  x:  x: 


m  "5  C 


iffl 


^    (_.    C3-^'     ■ 


2draS 


(NcO-rfiOCDI'-GOOlOi— «C^c0tJ<iO'^I>.0C0:O 


Tt^io«::;t^0C'OiO'-H(M 


cococoeocococccO'^'^'^Tt*'^rPTt'Tt'"^Triioiou:)<oioicioioioiocC'^to 


C3^ 


■"  CO  CO  to  CO  CO  t^  c 


OOC^OlcOCOTj^-^tNt-tCCOOlCO 


COOl— 'COOCOCO'^OCO'-'OO— ':CCJ«-Oa;t^h-(N 


lO  CO  »0  O  ■^  CO 


icocooor--oO'Mr-.TfTr'0 


lOiocorT^cocor^': 


._._._  ._._  ■j^iO»OtO*0'0'C'»OtC»OiCtC>-0'C'OiO 


»OtOuO>OiOtOiOiOiO»OiO»OiOiO 

'— iGOGO"rfC^:DTjH:CCOi— "OrfiOt— <.— ■CCCOCC'— 'XCCCDtOC^OiCICD 


-a  a  ' 
.2  S  S 

1kw 


03     . 


'oi 


i 


o  go"- 


Q£f.; 


o 

go 


(i,  o 


i-i  3 


=3 

"^  d  C  3 


iO^PSa. 


•  O 


ifi.  9^  a..- 


03  o 
13  ij  Ore 

.z:  X  tz  t^  o)  '^E 

a  ^.^     -a  c  M 
»3  Xk^-  oj  c  c 


03X3J3  "-•'O    .  <o^'j::  a    .  f  Ox; 

f-H(NcC'^^;o't--aooiO'-Hc4coT)^ioi:Dr--^o6asO'— 'C^co-^w^cdr^oc^ 


S>^5;3  2 
x:K*r"33i;aj03 


o 

I  i£ 

l-J  O  CO 

o  I, -a  o 
«i  .S  «  b  5 

tl.  -tJ   ^   C5   03 

^  JjO  Oj; 
m  M  B  ffi  H 


H(NC^C4(MncSCSCNCSCSC 


IM 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 


3075 


feO 


CI '-<  cc     t  ao  c*?    I  ic  o  00  01  o  oi  CO     I  uD    1  c^  t^  w     I  00 

■Si-^ui      licit"      loSoOOJClOOO      .•*      it^t-00      IC4 

{»:)      rr     t  I      (M  o  t^ c^     ICO     I  CO -^  Oi     '  <— 1 


pH-n;  8  "  =" 


0(Ml^COCOOcr.  (N^OOSOO-^-^COOOCOCOCSCJiCOC^^OCOb*        SEsS 

CC  06  C^'  CD  O  O  CJ  OC  f—*  *C  00  ci  t>^  aD  06  »C  OJ  t^  (N  CO  IC  GO  CO  00  CO  CD  ^co  jc  r^ 

S;i-;mP.COCol--;uOt--i^a0        t^COOO-^t^CB'l'OfNCOCO-O'C.COCOM 
?\1  iN-t_^.-4(M  r-tCDCO  »~" 


(1) 

t= 

z 

s 

0= 

;  CC  -^  i:©  O  f-'  CO 
„.  , ^,_-         ..OTfCO'<3'<MGO 


CiOOOC'OO'TCri'— r--OTfCO'<3'C 


o  i;©  O  tM  00  o  c^  t- 00  t-"  CO       ^ '^  £; 


c^t  «:>  Oico  CO 


r-;cOt--CiO         C40(N         0030         ^         t^rl         g         O^ 


OOCOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOQO  SSS 
oooooocooooooooooooooooooo  00c 
ooooooooooooocooooooooooo-^o  ^^o  o^c 

co"o'o"ooo*o*oo'o"o*oo^500~;5foooo4ocf^'o 


Ph  °  .S  '5  "O  ■"  .S  o 


'tf'OOC.  C^l-HM<NOa:2^cCiCrHcOCOCR'-^r-HC0^05"OOC^OiCO'^COOiO 

«Dcdoodi>^cDW«D'^*aJui'<i*^t-^^cO'^'i>^odcococ4cicoiosDco 


i^cO(y5cc*c»oc^cC'«i'ccoOTfTt<ioo^coiooiGOt^o>2cs(N;^^c5 

OCOr-->OC^OC^OO-^*<CTt*COt^OOCOiOOr^>OCDrHiOO^CDCSOiy3 


O  CD  I  -  «D  00  CC-  *C 


§  'II  ®  ■^  -S  ^ 
o.-8.gS 


-HCOCCCO^OCOCOCOO^OI-'S'OCO'fl't^— IO»01-*'*C023CJCgt»rjCOM03 

ct---5^r~-!roi-:iocDofcaviO'*"-"rc^t~>ot^socoo20ooot~tD>ocDt^ 

cc'nh-;^'oooccDo(;iOTtio6-»"'Hcnocdc-ic3C^'c-ico't-^cocooJoc'00;3;co 
•S-r-;c^eMlSc<Si--icoci.--'co;cc^c<i-Hcoo)C^cs.-Hic^cDrtCO.-ic^coc^ 


a.S. 


|§6'5.og 


rocoocr.  .-H05CDt^ioooooa-coo>2"^'"S09SS"S&:SSSSSK 

02t--f-C^-*00'*CCCD.-000-*'HO'OCO(NO'-'C»OO.^C-)OOCO>0>rat~ 
06  iC  ^'  O  aj  Oi  CS  cd'  t^  Oi  b-^  ■*'  •*'  Oi  O  06  CO  GO  10  00  00'  O  O  CO  CD  •-;  o  rj  3 1> 

■5<.-;coOTi--<coo3Si-r-^t~toc<ocoaot^.-Hooco(NC^--;'Ococ^oi-*2 


z§ 


"S-c^ 


io!MiocD(Ncooo-*c<iMri--"*x-*"0-*'-H— ICO— <3;3^>o^a5tD;j>0O2j 
cDa5^':co--^^coc^^c<^coc■^coGO^-•t^cotoo*0'»}"OicOTP^'<J'Cs^t--^^ 
■*E^icc»ocO'*'C'«<ooiN'0"3't^cn'Ocn-<05i-ioo-*r~ost^-»<3>'«o03 

rt.^*^"^"gt~;o~oococqcD^"coco-£oo-*co"c^*»  t;;jt^ 


e52cs 

Ph  O  5.5 


lOcOi-i^iJi-'Oiascoc^oco^cTscooc^c^iooOi-^^cTiCncocogj^^Ob-coco 

O00t^(NO0--C~>'0O'*CM01t~Oi-l^e^0<-*C0C0OC0C0OOCD'*OC0 

■^■^coco'cc»c-^coc>^ciocoicdO'«j"»ocooiaicocD'>oioco*c^co»ooco 
c^^HC-i^^  i-HT-ieoc^'-'C^'^      r^r-ic^— HT-ti-i^^c^co      i-tco-^^^cscNi 


H"" 


TfOO^COOfOOO'-'CO'-iO 


I-.  c:  --H  oi  CO  CO  o  ' 


-cco'^c^Trcococci 


ic^o^— tco'^oot-^'— tiO<:D:or^c^^C^"^i^co 
D-^rrococOTP'Tf'rt^iOooO'— icDcot;Oq;t;--»o 

IClC^OOO^OOiiOcOCD'— (OOO-^CDC^CO 


CO  Oi  lO  C^  CO  O  Ol  ' 


OC^CO  CD  h- 
t-1  tP  GCO 


t^rpO(M0SO5DCS00t^OC^OiO»OC00S 
3C  r^  t-  CD  iC  05  ^-         —  —  —       ■  — '       .  —  ^^  — 

-tf  O  GO  CO  CS  SD  O 


■-*<i;OOS'— '■^— 'CDC 
OSt^Ot-^QOCOTTCOt-- 


i-i  i-t  01  Oii-Hcccc      .— ir-.'^r-i'^r>-cO'-<co 


oc^  osooc^o 

CD  00  t-H  .-*  lO  ■^ 
(M  05  CD  CO  Oi  t* 

r^cocft^      CO 


^CDC-lt^COCCi— ■t^COCi'-t'^CDI'-COOiTt^cDt^cDOCCr^-t-C^COCOt^lOCO 
OOC^O^OCeOC^ICOt^QOCDOlcDCOGOCDOcOOCOCSCOr^CDC^^gjGOb-C^r-H 
C^fOiOOCOC^C5t~*'<?'ai"<P»OOOCSOCSOSCX)COCD'— <C^QO'— iCOOt-COCOCO 


<M  r-H   ^ 


co-^  ^-^      ^ 


O5OOC:C^0ieDiniOC004»OOt^iCCDC0aiG0t^CDOOC^CD^0005iOt^ 
t^ai'CC^-*C»TpcOCD3CTt«.---CS>nOaJOi-^CiCT't^2"CDCOC30^cDt>-Oi 
CCiC00O"^0000C0l>-'— 'O'-OO'^C-OOCT'CDiOO-^OCO'-HCDC^COC^COC^ 

10  Co"  C"  OT  O  Co' CD"  CO"  t-' OT  GC  ■** '^*  CO  O' J5  OT  iO*  M  GO*  eft  CD"  ;-^^ 


,_, ,— 1 1- r-      f-H  CD      c^  o  i-t  i-H  t-^  00  o 


CO  M  CO  t*         CO 


Tf  O  —  CD 
CM  O  CO  i^ 


oo:i-^oo'r-)'-HTf'cocioioco^'»j*co^-oocD-<j<r-coc305t;-!Nr:- 

OorCil^-^CNOCOlC'OGOr-'McDh-OC^iM-^GOcDO'-iiO^C^ 
OOOCDCsCacOOGOt-^CDGOGl-- 'CMCOCDCOfTfCDt^O'— 'CO'^^- 


•-'lOr-HCCcO'-iOOt-'-"'— "■^^C--— OlcDCOt— lOcOiOr-*-^ 


)  1:0000  ^  GO 


ass 


w  ^  ^  «  00  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o    r: 

00000  OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOGOOOO 


0000 
0000 
0000 

cm'  o  o'  o' 


OOOOOCOOOCDOOOOOOOOOOCD* 


::O^OOOOOOCOOO'^OOOOiCiC.— tO'-J 


l,-tt-^4C.-<OiOC^10^--HOCMCMiOOiO 


CM  GO  "tp  10  .-H  CM 


uOCDt-GOaJO'-HCMeO-^»CcDt^OOOiO'-iCMCO'^^CDt~»COOlO 
,-.r-li— ti— ti— ii— (1— li-Hi— (1— IC^CMC^CMCMCMCMCMCMCMCQ 


83876— 35— PT  13- 


-12 


3076 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


,r2  i-  >   I  fi 


1±  0  O^ 

<u  O  g  o!  -J^  -H 


lOOtO      1 

■  Ol      1 

ICO  to      ■ 

.•*Q0       1 

,o     ' 

t-^  r-*  ^*  OS  CO  oi  r-I  ,-J  f^ 

CS  -*  CS  *0  Tfi  I-H  40 


os-Hooict— c^fC-^c^Tj;cooiooco-HCOf^O'^0'-'cct--'^Tt<oo*o 


O  t^  coco  CT)  ' 


'(NtP  CO 


Ol»dcOCO«DOsr^Ot-"COCOOsOi«DOitOt^C^ 


O'©(0»O«DC^WOiOi-iTj<I>-.»O00«0iOC^0005'-<0st-*0C0'' 


lO—l.-'COC^'^r-lC^CO^rHr 


■*  r-*        WCOCO        «  lO  C^  CC  CO  0>  CO        400 


1^ 

T) 

U 

(U 

■< 

3 

t^ 

a 

tf 

t3 

u 

o 

1 

^ 

,  1 

w 

Q 

P 

a. 

^A 

c 

U 

u 

Z 

o 

M 

^ 

CO 

?: 

& 

o 

H 

«J 

<1 

P5 

a 

Ph 

> 

-"I 

c: 

o 

2; 

C3 

-« 

hj 

•S 

H 

§ 

;z: 

^ 

w 

<to 

> 

>-i 

Ob 

Q 

>-i 

Z 

-w 

< 

R" 

e 

O 

f^ 

Z 

El 

■^ 

•< 

•^ 

«0 

tn 

c» 

M 

s 

1— 1 

S  "  g  fe  o  x  «  S.2 
Pk     .S^'O^^.S  o 


t.JZ   S  «   "  i-!   0,00) 

i"  o  nii  3  «  =a  t^"^ 


o  w  ,-i 


"  s  a  s  0-2 

«  a  g  >  03  -H 


os^Hcoc^a)'-^TPC^oc^'-tOro--**os-^Oi©coeDt^<©xcoi— 'iocsr>-o 
osr^'^OTj'cDcstMiooiOO-^Oiaoooi— <r*"^o  —  t'-'^oocoroc^c^ 

t-HOOCOCOO-^'^t^t-OlcDOOO-^iOCOGOOSCOCCiai^-OOS'^QCOSTP 

cO'-H  CO  lo  tC-i  io"o «— I  oTcc  oi"cid >n"oo  c^irTio -^'o  GO  t^Oi  ^o  oT     r- oT 

<M  <N(Ni-H         lOCOI-         '.j^cS^.—tCOTf.-H^T^^^t^  iC 

r-oooooooooooooooooooooooooooo 

r-HOOOuOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOiO 
C00050CSOOOOOOOt--000000';DOOOOOOO":>Oi 

■^i— iC0i-»<N»OC0»0         CS-^Qr-iiOiOr- (i0.-«O-^OOC0Tj<t^C^cDC0 
^  f-H  Tt^  CS  O         (N '«**         CO         lO        (N  •-» 


<OiM'*co^r*'-i^oco-^ai^ioiMTj'coOrHi-icocoicot>'M'^ 


*  (rj  --' (M  ro  (M  c^  <>> 


^OiC-^G0O0i'-''*00t^TfCi0itOiC^i0G0(N0ii0<Mr^^C0'M0>O 
•^0<MOCNCO^OCOrr«OOa>OCOC^Oit^CO^C^-^iOt--I>.r^iC50<NcO 

cs^^^O(:Doi^ocO'^'odooco*c<icDldoic^^ooicDC<iod»rfo^*o^ri■^ 


323 


iOiOcOCOQO«-lr-iC^(N^         MiOi-icOr-itOTt*CSC 


coTt^r-cooi^ocoot— CO.— «o<©r-oc^coc^uOi— tThooc^=£;-s^C'iTt<'-i 

iO<MiOG0'^Oc0'^|£>t--^00ir:)O'-«000>O0iC0C0iC»O00OOI-*'— to 

.-H*  o  o  t^  oJ  ^-"  cxi  oi  --J  »o  -Tt^'  ^^  oi  o  CO*  •-•  *d  OS  ^^  --*  oi  ^^  ^-^  CO  <-«  CO  --I  --<  i^ 

C^  40  *0  F-H  1— 1  i-H  i—i  .— I  C^  r-t  CO  r-t  I— (  C^  i-H  CO  rH  1-t    CO  .-(  i-H  CO  >-»  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO 


-^os-<j<ascO'-Ht^TfaooqricoTj-coc^:Diocoi-'OOCJ(MOiioai^ooo 

COOOCOOOCS-^COCOCO'CiCOCOOrHGOCOC^CO'^WCOOOfNOit^OOr-. 

CO  ♦-*  O  cc'  O  C^'  ^'  CO'  C^"  »0  CO  O  »0  O  QO'  --J  cd  ■^'  O  ■^'  CO  ^  O  •--  GO  r^  ■^'  rp  00 
(M-^CO         C^Oi-H(NcOiO'»f-^OifM^COC^CO'^COCOC^^C<»OOt^COCOt^ 


COOC^CO^OOX)COC^-- 'O-— 'OOC^iOOSCS--CO-HC-ir-CCC^13iaiiMCO 
GOOur;OiOOOOOC0005l:^COGO't*OiCOOOi-3it^W-^GOGOcO»d^O 
Oit--GOOCScOQOC005CMO'^OaicOOi"^COCOCOOi'— 'l--^iM00COC^CO 


O'-H'^cooc^r-c^oic^'^OJ-'J'Oooc 


<  r-t  ,-1        CS  . 


1  1-1    lO  l^  CO  .-t  Tp  CO 


.  .-*  rr  1-1  O  i-H  t— 


'  O*  O  Oi  Oi  ^  ^  - 


•  rH  TP  -^  .-( 


P  c3  q 

o  o  o 


O  03 


OC^'-Hr^C^C^<NOOOCOCOOOOi'*OiCOCT>iOr^COt^O'^COCOOOOCO 

"«*<t^i-iOiTPi-ir-^0'M'-tasoic^ooa>GOO^t^oo(Mt^^'-<'^cooco 
CO  CO  00  »o  ^^  CO  Tf'  CO  CD  oJ  oi  »rj  CO  go"  ic  lO  CO  tj*  CO  CO  co'  CO  oi  r^  co'  I-!  ^^  CO*  o^ 


1-"  1-tCO      ^  ^  ,-. 


CS»  rl  r-t  ^  r-.     ,-t  ,-1 


(M^^(M    CN-^C^CSCO 


p 

Q 

Eh 
M 

0 

■< 
z 

o 


O  O  C3 
X  1-  -^ 


GOOir^-— '■— 'CO-^OOt^COOiCO'OCOCS'-iCOO'-iOOOOC^OO'COJCOOOOCO 
COO'^OiC^C^II:^COOOO'*t^"*t^CN03iO-<ri>-'OcOCOCN'«^<NOOI>.r-iTt< 


i-tCO^i-i-^-^OGO'^GO'' 


<a5C^QOot-**ffor*coo 


CO  CO  — t        «0  O -^  CS  OS  C^        (N  CS  CO  CO  1— i  •-< -^        t^OOiOiOb- 


CO  OS  CO  CO 


CD  O  O  00  00  >-< 
0(N  O  —  uOrt* 

r-  r>-  io  -^j^  40  lo 


icoco-^oooocorpi-^-rf— <^coa> 

i00C0iO-<JHcO00'^C^00COCOOiCO 
iCOt^"^.-HiOOCO'-iCSCD.-<t-»iO 


OS  lO  C^  .-H  CO  00 


I    t*    T-(  CO    '^    ' 


''j^  r^  CO  iM  CO 


^Ot-^-HiOI-^CO'Dt^t^OiOOt^iCrH^C^-^r^OOcO'rt^OOiOiOOJiO'rJ^ 
OuOTtiOacO-^COOOOOOiCNCDfN^GOOit^O— '-HOt^OO'-^-^iOCOC^O 

"    '     ~       ""    ""  ■«or-cooscocO'-<0'-'r-oor-i>-cDco»-<^-cooO'-« 

CO        CSfM-i-T 


r-  t--  OS  <— I  CO  '^  ' 


lO^  (M         CO 


i-tO>0>t^cDcDC^^05'^Oi'^u^cO'*t*CDt^<NC^--<OS'<J'i0^r-Hioa>OOl 
~500t^i-<OC0'rt-r-iOCD00(NTriCD»OOc0"^C0--<C^(N05'* 

■too^'-'O'JOcooo^io.-ic^j.-'iococ^ocs'^r^cs^ooaa 


loooiosr^ooot 


COTt<COCO*OCDO'^COGO'^COCOO^COCSO'-<COcO'^»COcDO^-OS'' 


-OOi-iiOOO        Oi<M»0,-.C<I'^'— ii-icOiMiOiOM 


§•02 


3',*^'^«0-r}'(N*0m^HTt*- 


•  oc^ooo^co*o-^co-^icr^cc-^cor>- 


G000»Ot^C^O^H(M-^-<J<,-^0)0)O0)OCCtDO^tDC^Tj<00iO00CDOO 

oo-*oo-<o;r-io)-*t~;oooc<omoc^oocj^oO"0-*t^ooco>o 

^  GO  1^  t^  OT  t^ -^J^  C^ -^r  C^*  C^  to  to  O  ■•*•"  O  05  lO  ^  CO  CO  O  O  »C  •'I-"  ri"  o  c^  iC 

toW'»*<»-ii.N-^.-'r^^tocotoooioo^t^o»oic^GC-,i"r^'-^coooo)to 

^^  rH  rt  WCOC^        C^  iO        »0  ^  to        to  C^        ^  i-t 


30000000000000000000000000000 


JOOQOOOOOC 


i  O  1»  O  r-i  o  c 


lOOOOOOOOiO 


)OOTfOtCOOOOOi 


ooooinoooc - 

OOOSOfNOOOOtOt 

05  O  to  O  t^CD  to  O  »0  05  O  C^  -  ____  -_,-_  -__  ----- 
■^1,  r^  CO  »0  (M  to  CO  »0  CTt  "*J"  O  •-<  to  »0  ^H  to  >-i  O -^  O  to  CO  ■•*' t^  CS  to  CO 
f»  rt      ■fl>(NO    Olf    CO    to   (N  -H 


I^OOOOtoOOOO-OOOt 


M.9 


So 


^C^CO'^»0«Dr*00050^(NCO'<*^totDr^OOaiO^(MrO'^totOt^GOO> 
COCOCOCOCOCOCOCCCO',r"^"<J''*"^-^-^'<J*^"^tOtotOtOtotOtOtoiOiO 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3077 


CO  CD  -* 
»occ  ^ 

(N  GO  iC 


1" 

r^    1     1 

O      >      ' 

1  00 

CO       >       ' 

^OC^COOO'^CCtO'-HOOCOC^t-OOiCOGOiO 
t^CO'^J'r^COCDCCOcOTt^tMOOr^iCiCMO 


aiOc0O<NTP'<*«t^C0C1iCTf^(N0iOC0 


.-H  N 


iCSOi'-HOOCSMiO'^iO 


(M00'Mt>-CSC^OliO(MOO»OC0C^t-0iO  = 

-rfcOOSiOiOCNCDiOCOC^'^-^'^^COO'-HC       _  __..__ 

iOOiCD00'-'C0tCt^0i'*01CSt--l>.Oi«OW^CDCl'^00r-00cDOt-"^00O 


<rococc^=ccocc"ti-^oaiccoi'-HO»OiXTt*Tfco^c^iCCNcca;r-^iOco 


,-.  CCi-t         CO  CM  CD  I 


CO  Tf  r-t  ,-t  ,-« 


ooooooooooo 
ooooooooooo 

i-HOOOt>-»000000 


OOOOOOOiCOOOOOOOOO 

ooooooocsooooooooo 

O^OOOOOOCDOOi-HOOOOOO 


OCDO^OOOC^CDOCO^OiOiOCOCOOOO 


^-t^COCDt^»OCOOiOr^COiOOOQC'— 'OOcOi— '0^-^05C^CDCC»OiOf— iio 
CSli>,^^Ot^C30CCTt''^<NOt^Cr)f-iO(N00'^i-i(N'*r^CDi— iCDCDOOiO 

o6cDi-He4oc3cDcccoc»i-H'-rjH"cco--''i^"coiooc«o6o6ococ» 

J-J  i-H  C^  CO  1-1  i-H  CM  C^  CS  (M  (M  .-H  1-H  ,-H         ^  ^  CS  CO  .-I  1-1  CO  "^  i-H  1-1         ,-.,-»  rH 

(S000"t)iDCMC0-^t^OC0"^OC0'-HCD00^"^r-CTt40O'-HTP'^Oi-i'^Tt< 
i-(O00i:C0i00CDC0t^l^t^"rfC0C000'-HC^CCa0tOi-HC»'^l^OC0O03t^ 

Oi  ^^  CD  iC  '-'"  ^  ■^'  '-<  -^  •-<  O  CO  "<*<"  Oi  t^  ^"  I^  •^'  --H  --*  CD  00  CO  GO  iC  rr  ^^ 
i-iWCC"^COCOCS(MCOCSiOi-ii-i.-i)-<i-ii-iCO!NC^C^COCOOir-4(NrJ*i-H'<^ 

■^COC<»CDiCG0r»COC000cD<O(N'^G0'^— 'OOGO-^OOr-OO'^'— 'OiOi 

r-co^Tj'O'-''— 'CiOroioaoior-.iocsccooQOcocoooocMOi'— 'coioc^ 
c^i  oi  ^^  00  cs  o  CO  M  CO  CO  CO  ■*'  ^'  c^  t-^  CO  00  lo  o  c^  CO  CO  Tj^'  CO  cs  00  CO  '^^ 

CS  1-H  C<J  rP  C^  C^  CO  CO  Tj^  iM  CO  i-« -->  i-H    i-"  r-"  CN -^  CM  CM  CO  lO  CS  i-h    cM  >-i  i-l 


50.— it^t-C0-Ht--C0tOCD00CD»O'^O-^Or^CDC0C0C0OOOcDCMCMC0 
OOC4COt-OsCOClCSCOCDCMr*CO»OOt^t>-t^CMCD'^CO^OOOOOCSt^CD 

^0  o  t-^  00  od  oi  "*'  o*  i~-^  CO  o  GO*  tc  o*  oi  CM  o  ai  CO*  CD  CO  •^'  r^  CM  CO*  u::  CM  CM  CD 

CMCMTPCOcOr-COCOOiCMt-i— ''— iCMt-<C^CMt-CMCMC0*C^CM.-iCMiOCl*O 


t--i-HiOI>*OlCMi— <.— "cOiCcoOi— "CDOiOir-.— lOCMOt—GO'-HO— <COcOOi 
OO"^'^CMO.-<C0l>.-^0iC0CD00i0i0I--iOGC00'^CD.— '.-"CDiO-^iOCO 

cocooooooo»ocoiOr-Hco»ooico.-«cot>.oocDCMOt^i-«asaor-Tj«ooooi>- 

lO  lO  CD  CD --T  lO  Tt^  00  CD  tJ*"  O  b^  tp"  CO  *0  lO  lO  a>  CO  CO  O  ■^*  CO 

CO  C<l  CO   CO  CO  00  CO  t-i   ■^  CO  1-4        CM      lO  CO      1—1    i-i  1-t  Tf  rt* 


cor-Tfco»oc5000oooooocoasOcD-:j*»ooico-*ocooooco^.-4 

cDiOOCDOOi'-'COOO'-'OO'— i-^OiOi-tcDCOOiOiOOOr-HCDOOr-CMCM 

oi  iJO  CO  CO  od  cc'  00  oi  CO*  GO  f~^  cm"  CO  lo  cd'  CD*  cd'  oi  lo  od  I-*'  o  oi  oi  co'  CD  lo  cm'  CM 

t1^  .-I  CM  CO  r-i  .-.  CM  CM  CO         CM^  r-i  rH         ^  CM  .-i  W  ,-1  ^^^ 


■^OOiOl'-'t^'^Ot^t^O'— 't-COCMGOcO»- 
e-lCMCMCD-— lOCMOGOOOCMCMGOO-^r^CO'       __ 
COr-OrfO'^'^GOCSICOCOCMOlCMCOCO'— 'COCMCOiCTj4aii;OC<ICDOsaiCft 


-      , -    _        - :'a)'*^coi~^ooi^-t^coos 

ICO-— "OCMOGOOOCMCMGOO-^r^CO-— 'OCiCOCDCMi— '-^CDU^CO'   ' 


J'^'— "COr-COCMCMGO         lOiO 


i-<CD00CMOr^.-tcDiOO00Oi-i 
t^OOt^COGOCMTj'OSiO'— iCOOt^ 
COOcOOOiCMCDiOCMi-HOOO 

CO  CO  00  CO'^^oTo -^t-^   CO  CM 


CO  CM  CO  t^  iC 
O  Oi  Ci  t^  CO 
O  ■—  --^  CD  CD 


CD^  CD 
OS  t^  "O 

i-h"coco 


CO'^'-il^'-*OCOTt*CMt^i-twcOCOCMr^ 


OSGOCOiiOOiOOt^^CMcO 


iCCOiOCOCOGOGOOCOt^OlCM^O'^COiCi-iOCOTrcDiO'^J^'^CO^aOCM 
CMCDCO'^0'-«I^CS«OCMiO'<*'OiCMCOCOCDCDCMCOCOCMCM03CMcDO'-*CO 


CM  i-i  CM         CM-^— •GOr-i 


.-<  COOO 


,— i.-^Tf^cOOOi'C.-'COCMCM'— •OOCi'— "f-COCOCicOiCOiOi— 'OG000500 
COCMt-1— i-^OC0C0CDc0CMiO-^G0Oc0TfCD00r--r-C0'^CMO.-iOC0»O 
OiCOOOCOOOOiOCO'^t^CM.-iCOCOt^i-tOCl'^'^CMcOOOTrO'-'OOt-CO 

CO  o  ^^  cT  00  00  r^  »-h"  ■^'^  ■^  CD  CO*"  4C  CO  u^  CD --^ --T  CO  u^  t^  ■^*"  Tt^~  c^ 


■^CO'^'-'COt^W^'-'CM 


CO  1— «         coco  I— I         .— I  .— I  lO  ^o 


COCOGOOOGO'-'iC-^COOOcOCM-^O.-'COTj-^COCMcD'-'OOOOiO'O 
T-iOsh-GOdOCOOiO"^— 't^iCOiOOCMiCOO'^COaJCOcOasOCD'^COQO 
CMCDOlCM'— 'OGOOCOCMTriOC-liO-— tO^OCOtOiOiOCDOCOOOCOCMCO 

CO  C<r  CO  --^  CCT  ^ -^  U^  CD  O  ^^  O  CO  CD  «0  •^'' OT  CD  00  CM  CO  CO"  00  OT  T-T  CO 

Oiior-oit^csr-co»ocMcDOicocMt>'Tt*cD'^      Oi.— (.— <      i>-cocooocoai 

,_,  ,— I  .— I        r-(  CO  t- "O  .-(  CM  <— I  .—I  CM  t^  T-(        coco 


ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo 


oooooooooooooooc:>ooooooooooooo 

'-"OOOr-kOOOOOOOOiOOOOOOOiOOC^OOOOOO 


Tfoo^osaiooiooooocooiootoiCL 


OOOOi— •OlOiOOCMCMOOCOO'-iC 


»0  .-I  r-l  TJ*  O  .-<  T 


3  O  lO  lO  CO  CD  O  O 


O-^CMCO-^J^iOCOr^GOOiO^CMCO-^iOcor'-COOSO'-'CMCO'^'tCCDt^od 

<ococDcococDcDcococot^t^i>-r*t>-t^wr*r*t^ooooooaoooaooocooo 


CO  a 


C^  C^  O  O  CM 


lOO  oo 


^^ 


-^•2  0  0  .f^'    ..  „„ 
- o  >>>.o   - o -g  g  3 


of^ 

03      . 

^« 


a  "•-  »<iO 
2  "3  hPh  ca  g 

s  ■-•  s    ^ 

03°^C9 

■SOfq  og 

o     .  „,  ^ 
O    .  o_g  o 
^=■§,■3  3 


^  M  rt 
fe-i  »  g 

05:  f^ 

goS 


<^^ 


.— iCMCO-^iOCOt^OOOiO 


OOOCMiO— •OSOOOOi''** 
OC0CM0000»O»OCD00b- 
COCMCDOOTPUOOIOGOO 
O^OOOCM-iO^-HCM 

lOCOOOCOO'— tCOI>-CDCM 
CO  CM         CSCO         CM         CM  CO 


-  00.H   5  •  '  a 

^si^-cotid'^ 

"  °  a  m  '3  0=  S 
>  tj.S  g  O  o  j^ 

uQMrtooP5 


03 


|-g^-£o2'S§^§ 
^EcoSOog-g^ 


I  aJTT 


1-i  CM  CO  Tj''  iC  CO  I^  00  Oi  O 


3078 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


QO^'^cc^-or--oiC^":Jcc^-!ro^-oO'^^'*'^Ol^^oO(N'^»■^'-Hf2^oooaiOiTt*»r:l 


CO  3 


>cs4or-iOGC'— iGOoicofcr-osoor^csoi'— '^ 


-  (C  O  O  00  '^  --  (M 


CCOCOC^OOOOOOOOO'-HOOOOOOO'M(N.-<000000'— 'OOCS 


t--  r-  t-  t-  r-  r-  I—  r-  r-  I 


i^  1--  r^  lo  i^  i--  t'  r-  t 


03  'O 
O  c3 


^'H:?i2^j  Si2  £ 


■«  =3  S  £■ 


•  2; -if 


:ss 


C  Ck 


■SS-^ 


<"  ^  E 


g  «  2 

O  '-    t^ 

i3^  a 

S  -  3  ^  -  - 
.  9  »  oj  '-3  c  ^ 

tut  °  J3  J3  03  ^ 


•so 

111 


>.  , 

ftOS 

3  M  a 

O   „  o 

Oga-3 
•  2  "  > 


ir^^  " 


<1  3 


can.  OJ 
3^^ 


St:  73  JO 


H!i< 


;_c3  o 


O  C3 


•5      °  3 

ooS.f'sSg 
•  g  CO  fe  3  -2  i: 


aj  J.  >, 


w 


«S  =  °-§ 


eqeo 


^  a  M 

•5fe  a 


g  ^M  3(15 
fli  y  a>  ^  ._H 

■a  =j=i^  a 


lOCOt^OOOlO— tC^CO-^iOCDt— OOOO-HiMfO-^iCCOt^OOOiO' 


lOiOiOiOiOOOcOCDcCOOCO^! 


r-r— t^r-h»t-r-t 


)  CO  Tf  lO  O  t--  GO 


l-r— GOOOOOCOOOOOGOOOGO 


r-<O<NC^O-^0i(N'Mr 


i  O  -^  a:  c:  C^  Tf 


t—  t^  O  to  CM  lO 


cC'-HCsococot^oc^i'^'^as'^o 


-I  CO  Tt*  CO      o  CO  0)0  as  o  lo  iQ '^ 


JOsioci— 'ccocM— ■Tfoco— "f-— 'r-GOco       oco-n'cor 


l--COCO^HOOi--!Nai 


.-tCMT-«0'--'-'OOCO-H^OOCSOCMOO^OOOOOC-)         ^(MOCOOOCOCOO 


t-,r^t--t— t ___ 

(NCOOCOCOCS.— tT— i!r)r-iOOOOiOO^OI>-OC^O'-HCOI>-' 
CM  <N  ■-' CM      CO  CM    CO  CM    t— CO  i-<    CO  CO -^    CO    C 


CO  TJH         CO         to  CM  CM 


§  3!  S  ^  S  3  „-L2 

-  m  >    W^ 


o  o  o  a    o  -73  o  g  •=  o  "  3  „- ==  t;  's  3  g 

>-i  bDtyjoJ  rT^-i  a  0  toi;  ^  bx.3  p;  .3  PL,  .3  -;  g  ;e 

oSoj^SofocSa^oj'^^o     J«!-3S^ 

^.Si.au£&-Ss.Ha^-'.SiS-2i2<cat;^i2 

a)j3J3ijAS  »  o  Oj::  o3^J=  «.-S  "'E  3  ov-.-ti  o^  3 

!2;oog<!i2:«WaeajoZcL,QE£iP2;ScL,na3Pq 


-    .b  >  2  3  p-  3  o" 


I  a 


□  a  03 


3  ea  =3  S 

-  »  -  o 
3  a>  a^ 
js  o<; 


aSPg 


J3  a  03  0 


„  3  c 
ill 

•cfeo 

a  03  J3 


o  o 

aS'^n^ 

■ia£f=§0 


5  k;-  i 

a  =<5 

a  ^  a  S*"o 
W;-;"  o-o  „ 
^.^r^Ka.S 


»3^ 


o  © 
•CO  lO  > 
•Sea   I     o 

CEj^O  am 


C3  £>r'  a  03 

O  £  ^-^w  a  o 

^T3  „  bO 


a  o 
■20 

'c3  >.    . 
fe  ^  O 

aa^ 

O  3  bfi 

n  °  o 


OJTII 


ssa 


HI   b£ 


OoO 
>.Oa 


>>oag 


>0 


iH      r  I  a 


>^A  a 


btEi, 


.2t:.fc;  h-'S 


a  3    .^r' 


^a 


Og 


O  B^  3 


^^•-•S'g 


IS  £-• 

a  03 
.2  m  S 


o  _ 
OO 
>-«  ° 

iiao 
=  §>> 

mla 


3td 


Mo 

ga 


c3  Cm 
■So  a 

■0-3  t.  •; 
03M  3  ^ 

W  ai^ffl 

-  g  p 


o  3  o 
OOZ 


Jx:  03  t^  «  a 

mtS  bjo  ®  cj;a 
o  -r?  03  d  •^  o 


^xaso^csoc'^'Ocor^ooosO'-iC^cc^o      cot^oooio^c^co' 


C^C^C^IC^CMC-ICNCSCMCCCCOCfOCCCOCOCOCCCO'n^'^'^-^'^'^         ■^■rJ^.-jiTjiiciOiOtOO 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 


3079 


f-^l 


t- 00  O      it^OOOO      lOOOO      iOiCiO-**< 
Oi^CO      lOOC^O      'OCOO      I  ^  i-H  05  00 

I  Oi  CO  CO   I  00  "^*  O   I  00  »o  ■^'  t^ 


»-(  ,-t  rt    I  T-H  M  00 


'  O  r-l  CO  ^ 


to  00  00  ^^  N  t" 
■~  00  CQ  M  ■*  CS 


.-HC^tro— '''t^— '0»ot^c^o^<Noo« 


«DOWC005O00W5CCC^aiC^t-"^C*5O 


^O':C'a0':^:■^C0G0O001— '  —  lOCOO'OiO'— '^-^^C^iOl-XiOCOO^QOCSOiCO 


w  (N  q::  CM  ; 


;  Tf  »o  rj«  o  ^^  CS 


CI  I--  >C  00  CS  1  -  U-^  1—  Oi  CO  t 


■-•roccCM— 'OOit-rrcMoOt^cocDOir^co 


•-O00O"tit^'^Xl01'^C^t'-C0»0t^CTi»OC0'^N0i 


:ico— <:C'C^»oc*)i~«ic^-iot-co"::-— i»oo^'— •cs'^c^'-'' 


^  GO        CS  C  ^  . 


1-H  ^         Oi '^  t^ -^  <-< -^  CO  i-H  00 '<**  CM  "X)  iM 


t—  Tj<  lO   — '  CM 


"lis 


000000000000000000000000000000000 

000000»0  0  0'-'00000000000000000"tiOOOQO 
OOOOOOC:oO'^CMOOOOOO»00000!£50000TPTtiGOOOi:-- 


sioo'ooociicioooooccocooaiioo^'^cooooi- 


CD  CM  <N  CM  OiO        CO  r 


CMGOOOOiOiO        O  ":>  CO '^  o  o  ix:  CM 


■^  Oi  OS  lO  O  CO 


fin 


'  .3  ^ 


OC^eCiOrt^^C^OiCOO^O^CNOiCC'^CO^COCC— <t^ 


^  «0  CO  iO  O  O  CD  »0 


^CCCDCCiOi-«.-HXa:M-^Cr.  C^t^"rJ*'-<«iOCDiOC0-^t^'^05OC0r-i-^00O»0'<** 


0«DCD^Ht^(COOCCOC005i 


It^O5COC0»Ow(M00»O^=000«200O5iOOsOlt^00 


cqrtiMCMiNiNe^"(N(Nr-<cqcoi-i'-((NC)iMM(N(N'-i'>j<i-H'>j<e^iMC^rt'HeqeCr 


o  P 


Ph  ".5-3-5^ 


CM'^t^'^t^iOOGCO'^i-HCMCMCOCMOaOOOOOOU^COC 


-  O  O  t^  '*  o  to  •- 


;O5QOG0'— I.— iC000001'^»0!CiTf<OOOI>'i001CDCO-^iOt>.CO'-tiOOiOOOCO-^ 

cooCM'oiTJ5^C,--;lotd<£jo»o^"oi'-^^^»Olo"^>^ooi^^oio6oCM»-^CMOs^^ 

CMCMCOiOCOCOTl'iOCM'^rHCOCOi-iiOCM'^'^CM.-iTt*'-!"^        OOCOOO'-'COOiOi-l 


rtt^ 


^BS^ 


-T  -i^    OJ    b^    _  — 


-^t^GCt^O'*Ot--O^»OO'a0C0CMcDQ0C0"*f0t^b-C0OO'*i0CCI^C0O:0e0 
l-Cl'— <'*:J'Ot-'-"Q0f0OCDr-"^C0OXl>-t^*0';0t-OCD»0G0CMOt^C0CMC0r-i0 

o  o  to  r-^  CO  r^  c<i  o  cm'  o  ■^  CO  id  -H*  L-^  cr^  —  ^  ic  o  CO  GO  o  oJ  oi  o  cm"  lo  ^^  ^ 

CMCMCOCM'^COCO^CMC0CMC0iCCMCMC0COC0TrC0'^^00i-HO5-5j<'^COi-iCMCO<DCM 


OOOCOiO-HOGOCOiOCMiOOt^CMiOOr^OCD'-'Ob-OOCOCOO'OOiOOiOCO 


COO'^CiTP'^DCMt^I 


'^COCOiOCOCOt^iOt^O'^ 


OOCOCO.-i-'^CMCOQO-^Oi— iCMtPOOCOCOOOCOO^^OOiO 
t>^  CO  CO  CM  cm'  id  ■^'  O  iX3  •-*  ■^'  O  00  OJ  cm"  O  C^'  ■^'  id  CD  CO 


lOiO-VCDCMr-CMt^COCMCD-^CDCDGOiCt^CM'— ii-icDOOCMCM'^COOCM 


z^ 


w'OJ 


C0'^CMi-HC-l-HCMC0C001i0CDC0'<*^Tj-Ot^O»O00t^t^i0C0r^C0CM^t^C0O'^C0 
COCO'rt^CDOCOOiC'— 'OOr^CMCOCDO'-'CDO-^iOOOCMiCOOOOOOO-^OO'-HCO 
Ot^iOCniOO'-tiOaH^'<ri^-COt^CO<OCMt^COCO^CMOOCDI^-COCOiOI>iOCOCOr» 

00  CD  CD  ■*r  id"  CO*  ^' oT  CO  co' ■^*  cd"  cm'' cd' ■^*  id"  o  CM*  CD  o' ^- cm"  go' 00  o  oT  10 


1-"  O         -—  OCM         i-i 


r-iCM'^'«7'CO00t^'— ' 


■^  ^~,    <D    „T- 


00  10  w  O  CM  C 


;  X  'X  — '  t-  CD  CM  c 


:)aiO^OOOTj*CRCDiO— iOCOh-CMCDb-00 


iQ-^COC^lOGOCDOlOr^C^-— iQOOOCO-— tiOiOCMCMt--f— <00OOiOiOOiOC0C0»0 


C^Ol-^— "CDOCM"»*'iOCO— 'CO— >CCCM* 
Cl^CMCMCOCO'^^         COCMCMtPi— (CMC 


r^OO!:OiOOOGOiOOCOCOOO'— I  —  OiO'-H 
CMcOCOCMCO.-HTt<i-llOCOCOi— '^CMCMtPCM 


H"*" 


CO  o  '—  CD  "*  o  r^  t 

CO  CO  O  CM  CO  10  O  ' 
-<^  iO  ^  O -^  CM  CD  •- 


•  OSCOt-CMOOir^CDO-^OOcD-^iCOCDr-GOCDCM-^— "lO'-HOS 


'■*CD^Tr.-HOt^CMCOr^OCDO-H^OOC 


:)  10  rr  01  CO  t--  ^  CO 


lOOOO-H'rrGO'— 'QCCOCO'^GOO'^CMOOOt^OOt^COCM'^ 


lOCDCMTfiOO        CO        OlCDCMOC 


;CiOTfCM01'<rCM00b»t--Ot^'-<'— 'CO1— i.— 1(0 


O         -*  CM  iC  i-H  CO  1— t  O  fO 


CM         -^.-i 


^^COTfCMOOOO 
-^OGOr^'^GO'^CD 

cioocDocor^cO"-H 


TJ"  t^  ^  CO  CM  00        CM 


TpCMO'^^COGO-^COO'^CMTfiOasr^t^iOO'^OOCOiOt^ 
GOiO^CD-^Or^OGOOOt^GOOir-'CnC^t^iOCOOCO-^CM 
lOOCDOCOOiOcCCM'^T^Ot-^OOOC^lOt^t-iCCMOOcD 


OOiOi-HCDCMCOi-OOC 


COCM-^^         CO  i-H  l^  CM 


1  CO  CO  00  -^  CO  »0  CO 


.-H  CO  1-t 


Ot^t^Tt^tOOt^OOCJiOiOCMCDOO'^OOCD'— iOOCMC-l^iOt^O'-"'--<CMOCOCMcDCM 


00  CM  1— t  10  00  t--  C 


•  CDCO-^COOO'^CMOOCDCOCO'— <:D'^OOOOCDCM-^CO» 


•-(t^rJiOiO'«*'C^CMCMCMiCTrTt'OOCiOCMO-^Ot^CMrfrJ'iOOa^CMiOiOCO? 

r-T  i-T      00*"  <-r  oT  co"  o"  CM*     t^  t-T  00  cT  cm"  f-T  id" 


CO-^COt^COOOiCCMCMC'lXCOCOt— lOt^rt^COTt^i— <CMiOaJ'<^'-HOOCO'-<TtHiOiOiO 


ccoTPoococDOoor-— '^c 

OCMCDai'^CMO-O'-'iO^C- 


l-^COO'-'CDOCOCOCOCJl'^CMC--         

•  O'-'CM'— lOiCOC^aicDO'-HCOGOCMt^OO'— I 


soO'XOco-^co-^co— •oor^ooO'^or-oO'— '-^t^ioooaicoiocioooco 


CM  lO         1-H  CM  CO 


coco         CMCM05G0CM-*  iO'<f-<**': 

CM         i-H         CM  rt  -  - 


■o 

t» 

0.2 

a 

0 

0. 

oS 

U 

M 

^OOiOO^COCMOiOCMCMiOCOr 


3  CD  --  f>-  O  -H  ^  : 


OXiO-HfMCMOt^COCXCM'-'CRTj^COi 


JOCO^OTfOicOCO^OCOt^cD'-iCSCOTfr^CliOOiOOOO 


DCMOOOCOCMrroOCMI^XOiOOt^ 


OCD^Oi-^X-^iCXCMOOO-^-^C^CMXOOioaitOiOCSX-^iOCDh-XCMCO 


Cn^CMCD'^X^'-Hrtt^CMCMOOO-^OCMCMOClCDiOC 


XCO  CM  CO  CM 


OOiO'-iiOCOr-iCOCM 


TT         —I  CO 


OOOOOOOOOOsOOOOOOOOOOOOOh-OOOOOOOOO 
OOOOOOiOOO-— 'OOOOOOOOOOOOO'TOOO'iOOOOOO 
OOOiOOO^OO^^CMOOOOOOOOOOOiOCOOOO-^OXOOr^ 


I^C^i^CMOcD'-'CO— ir 


CM  X  O  O  10  l>-         O  10  CO 


>— I         no  CM  'tT  — I 


^CMCO'^iOCDt^OOasO'-iCMeOTt^iCCOb-OOOSO^CMcOTt^uOcOI^XaiO'-'CMeO 
^r-Hi-t,-l,-HT-«r-(i-l.-ti-»CMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCOCOCOCO 


3080 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTEY 


60         2 


^       w       „        ® 

S  ««  o  g  u.    «  a  t,   C- 


S2-S   - 


aj  "  g  <J3  -g  -' 


"5  S  »"  ><"?  D.2 


ai"o  y -S  3  c3  03  t^ -' 


"  ^  a  ?'a= 

§,0  o 


fin- 


"  £  a'S.o2 


g^« 

o  o  q 


(J  O  03 


CD  CD  O  Oi  C^ 
OOOO  lO  .-H  o 


i-i  OlM  1-H  M 


0(N  "OC^  C^ 

OO  r^  Ci  rf  -— t 
O  ^  C^  CD  CD 

^"coc^'o  lO 


OO  OOO 
O  O  O  O  O 
OO  OOO 

o"  CD  Ci"  lO  O 
^  WCD 


CC  CD  «  GO  O 
r-H  o  00  Oi  CC 

c^'  --h'  CO  Cfi  r^ 

(N  CO  C^  T-i  --( 


lO  cc  ^  oi  -^ 

(N  OC^  O  O 

O  CO  O  1-H  CD 
CO  CD  »0  04  C^ 


-rf  r-"  Tf  (N  O 
»C  lO  !>•  C^  O 

CO  CO  c<i  ic  o 

C^  CO  CO  <M  C^ 


00  OO'*  CD 
•-H  O  O  04  "^ 

C4  GO  I"-^  t^  ■-' 

CO  CD  iC  (M  CO 


to  (M  OS  --I  -^ 
C<1  GO-^  004 
O  !>■  »0  '-'  CD 

co'co -^'cD  lO 


Ol  O  CO  to  ■^ 
Oi  CO  Ol  t-  IM 

lo  r^  -h"  o  r-^ 


CO  C0  04  ^  CO 
Ol  C5  -—"-*•  lO 
—  04  CD04  0I 


CO  w  COCO  t- 
05  -*  00  CO  C5 
^  04  Ol  O  CD 


00  O  '-'  04  O 
--H  00  CO  CO  00 
O^O  '-''^  00 

CO"-<3h"io  O  CO 


00  o^  04  o  r^ 

CD  t^  t  -  O  — ' 
CD  •-*  CD  O  CO 

,-( r-H  i-H  00  a: 


ooooo 
o  oooo 
ooooo 


O'  CD  Ci  lO  O 


W  p 
Q  O 

5" 


■<  lO  CD  t^  00 


■ga 

o2  a 


c3^ 

■gs 


COiOCOiOCD-^^»OCOCT)04:Dc0040»OCOOCD 

aso4  0)CD-*a>a)Cooi'-^oiaico»oooi^ior^04 

OlOlO-— 'CDOO'^'NOOCOOJOCO'— >Oii-HCDOtO 
'-'00400^0000^00--<— i^^OO 
iOiOiOiOiOiOtOiOtOtOtOiOiOiOiOtOiOiOiO 

1^  r^  r-  r^  i^  i^  i-^  t--  t-*  t--  r-  t--  t^  £--  r-  r-  r--  t'.  r* 

CDOCOCDO^COOOOOM^OOOOJCOiOOIiOCDCOO 
OJCOOIOaT-HCMOiOIOIC^OliOOlCO         iOOI0404 


'^zio 


^2 


Cl~~   ^'      ,03'^^      c 


-I  "S    -"So  t^S  c  ^  ^-^  o  «  ~  •;: 
-3s  -.  c  5f  c3  o   -  g  5-  5  .  Q  03 

lOpH^SQSSfQOO^OZOOOO 


300 


^  J  t-(  C2 

Oo|52i§ 
.9 -^  »  S  «  c 
oil  2  a"- 

■g^  C.9~  c^ 
P3.^  ^  o  w  03 


3§  g  o: 


O 


M  o 


o  o 

S  J  r°  >  d  ©  >> 


*5  S  ' 


£'~'2  _  a  yo^ 

o  S  , .  ^  bo  a  a 
sa  IjsMOS 

3  !^  C3         _ 

^  w  3  :3  .t:;  j::  x: 


O-— "O^CO-^iOCDt^OOOiO-— <04C0"*LOCDr^GC 
04040104040404040)04COCOfOCOCOCOCOCOCO 


OlTWCDt'-COCOOS— 'CO»Oi.OiOCOOS"*01»OmiO 
'tJ^'Tt'.-'CDt^OJOr^OOIOJCOCOOOt^CDOGO 
Oirt<CT5»OCO<— •to— irfr-COXi'^-^Ol-^'^COCO 
O'-'OOIO— 'OOOOO— -^1— Oco^OO 
I0i0'0t0»0t0t0t0i0t0t0i0t0t0t0t0»0»0»0 

h- 1-- 1--  r--  r-  t^  t^  t^  t-  t^  t^  t^  !>■  r-  t--  t^  r-  r-  t^ 

—  —  —  -"cOtOCDOl'-'CD'— '(Nt-CDr^COCDCDO 


O  CO  CD  —  -..-.  ■ 
CO  Ol  CO  o<  ^  --t  ' 


04  Tt*  04  CO  CO  CO 


fin 


-W    .M  OT  -c  aj  C  §  "  b/,4^  .  r"  i;  • 


~  o  3 

O  a  o  5'  a  ^ 


o S-g-S  . 


o3"^i!J3.-o3-wO±;o3»OJ32 


O  b^a.S^ 

•c'£  3  «  g 
■S.9co 


u 


5    ''^ 

so'? 


a  W  5  >>  o 

ggSa^' 


^  K,  'z:  ^  "«  " 

£g3 


;^oS§w« 

,R  w  3  "   ■  « iS  '='  — ■  J3    • 


oOt; 
a  ■- 

„^  at: 
o  o  aj<^ 

a»      a  .., 
1-1  13  S"^ 

^  «  S  2 

.  1"  a  =8 


as 

o 
O 

n 

'3 

o 

3 

3 

a; 

Q 

ca 

a 

3 

a 

O 

^ 

as: 

c 

(!< 

rt 

hll 

fe 

§ 

3 

a 

>.a 

o 

■a 

<D 

J3 

m^-jjen 

i-iOICO-^tcCDt^OOOO^OIC 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 


3081 


._.  -^  ^-   fl^   ^ 

°  >-  H  22  O  b  >- 

0^  •-"  o  o  t^-^  ca       Sr^ 

O  ©^  CJ  g  o  "  ®  52 

" -  T  a  iS^- a 


"'J=  a  I 


c  ca  ^ 


lO  t^CS  ^  O  Oi  o 

(N  ^  oi  CO  ^  O  0> 

c^  1-H  CO  --H  -rj*  r^  40 


ct:. 


00  :C'  (N  O  »C  t>-  b- 

00  Tf  cj  CO  "0  eo  ic 

o  »C  CO  lO  -^  -^  00 

•-'  »0  CO  r-l  t-  r-l  O 


O^'-HC0C0Ob*0l'^ 

OOcOOO'-iOOCOOiO 

t^o6'*oi(NOcc^«2 

r-H  ,-t  iM  ^    iO--'U3«5 


-^  (N  O  O  O  "T!  r- 
■^  -rt*  00  O  ^O  CO  »o 
*C  Oi  -^  CO  Id  f-H  00 

iC  Tj^  CO  lO  TjT  lo  o 

^COCO^  t^^  CO 


r-»Ot^OOOfN05CD 

O  CN  ^rjT  c^  00  ^  ^^  r-T 

1-1  t'-T-H        (N-^iOCN 


oooooocr-oooo^oooooog 

OOOOOOOOOOfTlMOOOOOO 
OOOOOOOOOOOOCOO'-'OO'^ 

iOCOu^oOu^CriCrP.-r-<3^tD"cOO"i0050"0 
«/^  CO  <N  O  O  CO  T-^  iM  OOlt^O        COOi-H 


OH°.S-s-o*^cg 


t^CO"<*^CD"^COCCCOCO-^^C^C<IOO'^'-Ha5fO 


(MOOiCOOOOCOOOC 


J  O  CD  •-<  Oi  -^  l^  -^ 


t^cocacooicocoif^r^ooio— iiococooOi— <o 


1-H  .-H  CO  (M  t-H  (N  C 


CO  i-H  C^  <N  (N  <-(  CO 


■*-3        _r  AT  tiO      .—I 


><  coo  -H 


COiOtJ^xoCi^iOOOCOCOCOCOCTJO-^-^COC^ 
Ot^eD-»J<OCOO'*000'^'-IOO'^t^^^OO 
••J^  Oi  c4  CO  C<l  C^  CO  CO  IC  (N*  CO  00  ^  O  00  C<J  "^  t^ 


®  +J  m  "^  -S 
oi  a  g  >  5-- 


.b-aiO'^COC^QCCOiO<— I— it^COOO-^CDOO 


cct^coio-^cco*: 


CO'-H'^tOC^OOiOC^ 


odioico-^oic^'--  c^oot^c^ooooi-^coo 

,-Hr-iiCTrC^COCOCOCOGOi— tiCi-<Tr«5'*»-HiO 


pl^t^  g  o  « 


oooi-^'— ir^o— Hi— (oooco'^b-ooi^ooo 

l-^CS,—.,— (QOiOt^COiOCOOOC^'— •Oi'^'^'O 

od  --H  (N  cvt  CO  (>i  ---'  oi  oi  o  o  -^  c^  00  o  c<i  cc  C3 

I>-i— i(MOCOCOOC4CO'^COCOCO'^C^t^C^;^, 
.— I,— 1  CO        1—1  I— lOCDC^Tj* 


CO-— iOOC^05iOOCOCSt~-t-*000"^'^OOcO 

o-— 'coiodoor-cocO'^ot^ocoiof^iQ 

t^cC--iTt*OOOCOOO(NCO"*t*cOCO'^OOCDOO 
CO  "^"  00  co"  C^ -rt^* -^^  lO  "tJ?  oT  co"  cc  C^*  co' CO  cf  ;^  t;^ 


a  rt  a  Sf 
So  o  S: 


oicoco(NOi0^a>oO'*coi^ocDgo^<-i^ 

OiiOuOOSOcOiOOO'— 'COOi'«*^*^'^OiCOi-H'tt* 

»ocoO'^cscs'i^ai'^'^*'-'*Oio*oo5cocooi 

^'«J«COC^CO(N^C>»'^'-iTri-tCOiOCO'-<CO 


H"" 


COGCTfO-^t-'CON-Or-t^O^iOOOtNiO'^iO 

co'^r^cDt^cocDuoiocO'NcDr^OicC(M(Mr- 
cs'n'cocor-ooO"<rcoi>*oooiOcDiooit^'— < 

C^"  c4"  ic"  •r}'"  tCiO  .— r  T— »  t--i— ifO-^'— idCiCOCO 


c^^oioc^t^coooascii--'^c^oooic 

Oi'-HCOiO'^^'— tC 


40— ..-tiOCS-^GOOOt^COC^-^C 
•^CS-^'^'-'OOOO'-"      ■ 


^r-T-^*— .  cDOSr-ii-tt^       OfMOOr^iOCScO 


^^^  co<-»      c^ 


C^  Tf  CO         1-t 


o  S  a 


CDcOOl-— 'TtH"OOi-^Ot^OOOOOTt*Ot>iOt-* 
(NOl'-'C^COOiOCOC^'dOOOO'^'-f'— t"^"^t>- 


■-<  Tf  CO        CO 


CO  1-1  CO  C^  -^  1-1  T 


OSO".  ■^OcOCO'-it^COOiTPCOcOOOcDa^^GO 
co»orO'— 'cot^t— csGOc^t"-r'-u^ocoh-o^ 
ooiOi-ioooO'— 'co^i— 'C^^-^ocoai-^o 


COOOOCNCD-— 'Or— Ob- 


«Kr-4C0OcDC^  c 


-  CO  00  (N  00  00  CD 


r-ti-KNC^TtHOOOC^-^ 


OiOcDCOOSCT'-^C^Oai'^-- <cocDTt<aJ— I'— I 
■*fC^(MCS»005t—  O-IOO-^C^COi— "O-^OOTt* 


3  — (  ^  lO  -—  O  '^  O  ' 


ic-icscsa5oooco*o 


*— •TfioiMcooaicoasoioO'^cocoi 

C^  .— I  lO  »0  r— lO  01<N        r-H  GO  O -^  00 


C^,-.  iO        C^<N 


oooooooooooooooooo 
oooooooooot-ooooooo 

OOOOOOOOOiCOOOiOO— 'OO-^ 

»oo"u5'oou^oiorrc^ooro"oio"oo"o 

--        'Tt' lO  t— C^l  O        "^  O  1-t 

Oi        .-I  •-< 


^COCSOOCOr-lC 


CO  '  '  '  ' 

^  >  I  I  ) 

I  1  >  I  1 

CO  I  I  1  I 

M  I  !  !  ! 

o  1  :  I  : 

o  ;  ;  ;  I 


cot-ooosOt-iweoTPiocot^oo 


3082 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTKY 


<^CO--HWOl^r-^CQ 


CD  CO  '^  -*  CD  CO  1— I 


ot^S 


:;^ 


r-,  m  C  rl  O  03 


o  C3P5  4.J  o 
i-i  l>  3  o 

^  a  q  Q  o 


Jill 


OrHC^fO'^tOCDt^OO 


CD^COCSfCt-^OlTt^OO 
CDC^CDCO-^CSOCOCO 
Or-.OOt^OOO— I 

OOt^'^CO-Hr-tr^TPl-l 


>      -co 

■-.atjOitSajocS 


So  . 


O  0)  Is 

X3^  O  „      ,   .. 
H  E-l  H  73  H  « 


f-iC^CO-^UJCOt^OOOS 


S  o  a> 


03  a  Q 


aWS 
5  <c-S 


S  0)  xj  o  So 

m2  0.9     ° 


w 


"5  a 


a.92-3   - 

feaSa°2 


+j  g  CO 


Jiii  CD 

j*  O  CD 


S©BT3.HiS-i3at 
f^      .- aTJ      .go 


o  a 


i,"a'--_,*^o"2 


B.92^-:=- 

g  s  a  f -ao^ 


S  «  a  ao2 


a  aj73  a  S 

ie  o  »  2  X 


a-o.; 


^— ,  <1» 


'S.i: 


^*" 


aS 


>p-= 


s 

I'M.* 

O 

lO      1 

t>- 

T-it^cO'-icDcct^'^aoxio 
oocxJcdidO'-'CNeociuiio 


OcOfO'^-^fCtOC^Osrc^ 
p-«cO'^'-'CDiocct^a3t>-'-t 

"  oTcc  "  oTo  CD  »o  "*j'"'-*"»c' 

1-t  ^  00  '-'  CO  Nr-lC^ 


ooooooooooo 

Sooooooor^oo 
OtOOOOOOt^OO 

O  lO  t^  O  O  tJh"  o  »0  i-T  lO  o 

'-<  C^  CO  i-H  r-(  lOC^  l>0 


CDCT>O"*^0000OC000O 

OiCJt^t-ooi— 'osuot^"— ir^ 
CO  c^i  t--^  CO  o  "Tf*  ■^'  o  o  t^  CO 

COCOCSTf^CSCOCSC^COi-Hr-t 


CDCOC^TfGOGOCOcOCOCOgs 
05C^CDI^-t^OO"^^I>-^0 

COCOt-^COCDOO'-*OCOCD*Qd 
COCOlNTj'COCDNCI^fNrH 


MCOC^C^OiOOOOC^CDCS'^J* 
1-tCiOCOcDCOCDCOCDCO-^ 

CD  CJ  OOicOi-*TjiTj«'-H009 
CO'^TfuDC^-*J<COiMTj<(N^ 


C^COC^C^t^"— '^CSOSb-CO 

i-'OOSCOOO'^I^COCDCOO 

CD  CO  ai  cri  — » lo  oi  '<t"  ■^"  --H  -^ 

CO^COOtTC^iMC^C^COC^ 


COOOCO-^CD'^X'^COiO^H 

COOCOCOCOOTfiOiiOOOO 

COOiO"^rC'--»-^CD"3CrQO' 
6Q-         t-H  f-HCS  .-t  rl 


oO-^OcDir^t-^oo^couoOS 

OicoGOC^'-'coas'^i— i-^o 
ir5ioocDc^t^t^»ocd»o^ 

cocoes  WrH(N.-lM^rH 


COOCOOCt^OOCO'**'^CDCO 
»-hioC^'0-h.-hCSCOCDCOCO 
CSOlcDiOOcOcoCQOiCOO 

Tj<"  Tf*  i-T  i-T  C^  CO  r-T  r-T  CO  Cl" 


CSiMdQO^OC'lOCD^ 

t^cor^Tt^'-HiocS'— ICO-"-* 

COOJC^iOCDOiOOCOCOCX) 


CDGO^Oia5COt^C^'<^OiO 
>— 'h-Ot^cDOCD'^tO^-O 
(NiOCOCS-^t^CO'^COCS'— t 


OJOOOsiNrOC^'-^CiOt^'— il>- 
1— tOOC0(^rtH»O00^C0i0 
COOOOiCOCOt--'— 1":;"30 

co' '^^  >o  lo' 00  CO  oi"  GO  t>^  CO  rf 


OcOOOMOOl-^CSoOt^ 
OiOOO-^'^GOt^'^O^ 

oo»oococst^cooooco 
OQOtCoioc^»ocood»oao" 

^CSCO'-HCOCOOOCO'-H'-iO 


500  OTf  OO 
>  O  O  O  t^  t^  o 


oo 


oocooo-^ocor 
o'tot^OOrjroco"<-rir5'c 
-^  CS  CO --I  CS         O  CO         t^  c 


i-HCSCO'^"3CDr>»CX)050^H 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 


3083 


I  CO  05  00  Ol  CO 
I  CS  (>»  Oi  O  t"- 


it^^t^CC^ 


w  t^  CO  c4  (m'  r^  o  !£; 

iC^  i-t  o  w  <-< 

i-H      <ro 


•-'cDOi»oioar>r--oo 
oo.r^  --H  CO  Tt*  ci  lo  a> 

t^!McOOOOu^Tt« 

lo --H  oT  •^"  oT  oT  o  oj" 


sooooooo 
" )  o  o  oo  o 


CDOOOOOOO 

-^  to  ^  o t^^  cc 


cc-^Maocs»ooro 


^W.-HCSCOt^WOO 


^O»0CDC0!M0it^ 
f-HCCCOCO-^t^-C^CD 


CD  Oi  r-  c>i  CD  o  c^i  CO 

lOiO'^'-^iOOOOO 
iOo6iO»Ct^OOCD 
'-HCSwCOCDt^COOi 


lOcoooiomo^-cc 

NCiiOC<)CO^^-CO 

0(5  ^  (N  oi  r^  »o'  '<*'  00 

i-H-^CO-^OOcDCOO 


OOQCO'-HOKN^ 

■^icc^cNr^coooo 

lO"^         CD  CO  •*  Tt<  f-i 


0(MC-JC^OcCCDr^ 
CDtJ*i— it--^COCOCO 

lOTt^'cDCiiO'OiO'-J 


OiCDCCr^TfOcDC^ 

qTio      oTo  oTcd  ^h 


■  X'*  GO  ^  -^  Oi 


CD  C^         "^  1^  CD  CO 


t^fO— '05C00100 
■^COCOMQOCOCOOl 
COOCOTt^tMO^CD 


CO  CO         ■**<  (N  CO  CO 


•^orooi— '— 'O»o 
•"HCSiO-^ocor^c-i 

e^  M  io  GO  ic  w  lo  c^" 

CD  CO       Oi  CO  O  CO  >-< 


i-ic^oeo-^^r^co 


Oi-^CCCOCSCD^'-H 


oooooooo 

OOOCJOOOO 
CDOOOOOOO 

o  o  r-^  o  lo  »o  oi"  CO 
Tp  m  ■— '  o  »•  CD  00 

COi-H  !M  ^ 


c^co^iocor^-ooos 


c3X2 


OfOC-j-^fOicoocoai 

COCDOC*<OOOOC^ 
OSCOCO— <Oi— 'COC^iM 
O^OCNOC^CO-^^ 
lOiOtOiOiOiOiOiOUO 

100<-<CDOCOC^^.-" 
•-iCNCOfNC^JlM         CDCO 


Sc  03  O  O  O  O 

^  „   c3    O  O   O  > 


B 

03  — 
Ml    . 

t.  o 


C£  0.3 

ID         C."' 

o^  3 


Jii'S  fe  3 

«.2tf§ 

■S-o  o  2 
£f'  ft  o  S 

3w^ 


•-'S'3-a 


2  n^-Sg 

Sana's  a 

■-^gCC  ft 
-G  ^-  lT  ^  ^ 


'-'C^co'<**»ocDi-*ooa> 


b^cOTT-oooeo^coorcs 
-*co»or-r>-ooooc^c^o 
Oirsr-o-— t'*c^r-c^r- 

iCiOiOiOiOiOiO'OiCO 

r'.  t—  r^  r-  r-  r^  I--  (--  h-  r- 

C0CDCDCDC^04CDCDC^O 


I  CO  I— I  .—I  CO         CO 


a  c3 
OODa'PHOnwcoSE-i 


-"SO  m       '=^5!  ^  <=  3 

1  >,  o  a>  >.  O  «  c  ^1  -ri 
."-  «Q  ftOi3~§i3 

bi«  2  §  « 


o„ 


_       —  03  3.SJ. 

^  --  ■-?  ts  w  ji:  —  x:  *3  =« 


3084 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


O        *^        rt         o 


C^  lO  CS  lO 


O  :D  CO -^  Ol  CO  Tt<  CG         lO '^ '^  »0  lO    I    GOO'rf^         .-h  lO  CS  O  t^  OO  «D  f-i  O 
CO  .-<  CO  00  I  CO  i-H  .-(  i-H  1-1  -^  i-H  TJ< 


-(J    g  CD 

17  pas 


t-LOtMiO^CD-^C^OOOcOt^COCO' 


;  1— I  ■T-  o  GO  C'l  t--  cc  ■ 


'C0t^C0t^'O<NOi:CiCOO-^O 


^CMOKNr^coccccco":! 


I'^iOt^TfO".  UOO"— "O-^OiOiOt'-CO'^COCCCMoO^Ci'— 'Oil— •'^O 
C<f  O  10  O  OT  CO  CO  I^  CO  CO  ^^  GO  CO  ■«*  C*f  00  W  CD  CD  c^ 


a>.-t  OOCO<N        (NO 


OS  OS  Tt<        cs  10 


oooooooooooooooooooo»ooooooooooo 

CD-^J^OOOOOOOOC'OOOOOOOOOCIOOC'OOOOOOO 


O^OCC^OO'-HC'iOOOOOC^lOi 


-00    OOO-H'-lO'-Hl 


O'^TfcD'MCCSOaiOOc 
•-H  .— I  CD  O  CO  •-!  lO  10  iQ 


jO:0-IG>0r^O»O00OOiOC0iOOiCCDO00i-i 
^^        CO  r-HN  CD  rr  CD  C^I  CO  i-H  1-1        C>)  CD  .-I 


^5  g  s  ■" 


I  OOi  -^i  10 

)    I-H    Tf    OCO 


lO-— It— CDCOt^'OOt^CD.-HCD'^OC"" 


.WTfOiOCOOSiCCD^ 


iCOiOiCO^COCO'-^OlOOOCO^OCDd'— i-rj-ooC^OOCSCOC^CDr-O 


o^^co^-^cDC^ooolOTt'GOcD'-'^- t-cooo-^ooioc^t— r-'--'— '"OcDcot— o 


■«*<  OS  (M  r-H  I-H  r-  , 


CSi-<C^<MiM.-itPCO'^C^i-i.—  CO(N(MClCOr-<(NC-lCO(N 


•is     >— I 


g^  1^123^%^ 

".f  °  aJ  o  15  5.0S 


"S.92'S-a 
"  s  s  sea^ 

<»  "  o  S  =?  "^ 


!?oooO'^oo'Ooocotot^(M»OTj'C^r^ascoot^ooco»o-^oot^OT-io--HC<ico 

CO'-HO'-H03CftCC05CD»000'^»OOOOCO»OC^"^CQO(MC^OT-<f-H-^(NOCMC^ 


'rt^CNOOlC^O'Tt^C^^OOiO-^OlOiOCOOiOl'^C-ir-OOCDCOCTsXCOiOCOCO 

oOr-twTTcoooi'-ifMt-cDCSosajOr-w.-Hid-^cDOoocor-iocO'^rt-.-ico 


CO  04  CD  Tf  O  ^  [~- 


-,.._     .    ^_.        -    -       .JCO-^OliO-rfiCOOO-^OOTf.— 'tJ<0»OGOGO— 't— Cl'O 

lOCS'^cO'^cocoooioC'— i-^csosr-'XTTor-'-'^cDt— or- -— co^oicDO 


C3 

►SS 

rn 

•c* 

t5 

S 

P 

^ 

^ 

^ 

hH 

Oi 

w 

s 

rn 

w 

0 

05 

-< 

1-1 

0 

0 

•^ 

« 

O  oT 


©  O  OJ  ^  J- 


(>|iOr--C^-*.-HCOCCC^005l^r*OGCCOOOOOOC^'^u^>-iGOiOOcDCO>OC'3'^ 

— — ■-         — —       .  —  .-  -     ^^  CD  I— >  ■*  <M  .— t  O  CD  O  ^-^  00 

-OGCCDOCDCOi-tCSCOO 


_.     3C^.— <0»00iaiai0— iCCC^ICOGOCD'— <(NCDr--^CD'— "■^'M.— tOcDO^-*00 
OGO-rt<rJ'ait-COGO*?COQO'— <COCO(MOSiOi-»COC^" .--.  —  —. 


■rfOOS'— •CD'fO'^tOCO-— lOGOC 


CO  X) --<  1— '  CO  f-<  1— 1    1— (    CO  CO  »-* - 


:ai'— '■'^oO'^'M'OOcocor-'^t— o 


it-    i-H    r-l  CO    1-1 


'tt^.-im'^OOOtDCO'^CD'-KNCDCOO^.-IOOCOiM'^OOt^OOiO'^'^COOCOCO 
C^COCNCOCN^^OiCCDCD'— iCDi— 'OWOS"<*'t^'-<Ot— C^»»OiOiOt--CDOiiCOi'-t 


ScDiCGOO-^OiOOCOCCON^h-'-'^iCOOt— »OC^' 


'  o  i-  Oi  --H  —'  or.'  CO 


M  lO  CO  <— '  <— I  >— '  i-<    CO  CO  »-l  CO  CO  <N  <-H  CO  Tji  Tj«  CS  ,— I  i-i -"^  CO  CO  C^  CO    CO -^  CO  CO 


O'— 't-GOCOCOiOCOt— ^C000OTrC^-DC0O»OC0C^CDa:C^'rT*O(M(M-^'— 'CO 


JCO'^OO-^'^OOCCC 


-t-oic^t— oocoor-ococO'fQCioor-05 


H*" 


C'lC^"^Oe004l>>»OC0C^t— ■^■— i'-'"^COCDcDCOCCiC<N0100COCScDOdOOO 

r-T  r-T  cafes' 03"  »OrH        (N  C^f  ^'^"odo  CO  C^T-H  l>rc^*|>rc<f  <N  iO(N  C^od       CC  "^'*''- 
6^.-l<M  f-l  CO  <M  -*  rH  ,-1  i-H  CO  05  CJ 


OOCO'-'OlCOCOC^3C^^OO-*iC^OiCOOt—  CO-— tCO-^CSi— lOO'-iTt^h-CO'^^'CO 


O  CD  O  CO  t 


JCOOO'-H'— I-— lOOOCDOlCSiO 

■    ■-OcD.-tco-^co-^oc-- 


co  c^  01  O  CO  CO 


o  o  =3 


'Oast-*cOcDT-»       OCDi-HCO"^TP(N(MOr-OiOC^OliOi— (1— It-*       coc^-^-^ 


^    ^        ^  tM        00 


!7  S?"^ 


.-(00CD01b-OC0(M»OO'<tiQC 


CO'<rt^C^C^(MCD(NI^^CO00O0iO'-'t-CO 


COIN'— 'C^i-rfTt^CD'!— •CDC^iC-^-^rfO'— iiCCCOCOO-— '— (— (t—CDOOOOO'^ 
(McD^Or— lOO^CDCOC^COt— CD'^O'— "COOtOOCS'— iOCOOC^^OOTt^Oi— 'Tt^cD 


w        C-1  (M  ^  C 


WCCTj-Or-TfOOfNOiOCMLCt 


coo-n'oocooit-— 'cocoou^OiOonc 

CO.-tOOTt^C^O'-crrOOCCCDCD-^i ' 


<001'— 'OCOiCCDi— 'OOOOQOOOSCOO 


,  _-.   Hl^O-rf^C^COiOiOt-CScD-HOO 
S.-«00C0CD<NC0r--'riHC00CO(M-^iOO 


10^,— .COCCOiiMiOt-iOCO'^CO'— "Ot--OCCDCOC^CICDCCOO'— '•— 't--»O00C^»O 


:C^i-li-(lOC^C^l  C^lr-.Tt<--:}'(MI:-r 


C^  »Or-H  .-. 


OOOOOi^COOOOiOOOcor^O.-iOOOlOl'^r-OO'^i-'OOOiOO'-liCCDCO 
OOr-cDOOOCOCDcDOOOC^-^COiCt-OCOOCO^OOCDr-iOiaSTfOCDCCrH 
OOCOOlCSOl'— 'OcrOCOOi'^COCDCO'— "I'-iOOOiOCDOOOCOW^COCOCOC^r- 


OlOOOCDCDCDOOOiCC^iO 


3iCcD'^'-*Ci'— 'lOOOOCO 


.-I         COCDCOI'-GO.— (C^'MG0C0'^I-O--H'^r-»C^Oi(MC0'«*'-^"<J*"*'^CC'CS(NC0 


OOOcOOOOOOOOOO»--tOOOOOOiCOOOOOO»COOO 


00  OCD  OC 


^.OOOOfM  00000 


000000 w 000 


OOOO-^OiCCSOO'^r-OOOOO'— 'QCO.--0 


cniO'<j'ocoocsoo:cocDw:nM(Noooo»ot-o^Lf;TrioOLCOOoo^ 


CO  CD  O  CO  --•  • 


,-(C^COTt^»OCDt--OOOi' 


Cq  r-t         t--  F-ilM  C^  -rr  CI  CS  CO  --1  ^         CO  CD  1-t 


S'^iocDh-ooOiO'-HiNcO'^iocor— 00c 


^C^(MC^C^CS<NC^C^CSlNCOCO 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 


3085 


1      ICO      > 

1  35      1 

1  •^ 

^      ' 

1.^1 

^H       r 

CD  CO  ^-i  ■— '  CO  CO  t-- 
CO  'O  »0  (TJ  Oi  05  -^ 

^     r  .-H  r^  -f  oi  rt  --<*  oi 


It-   1 

lO    ■     . 

1  q6    '    ' 

1        1  ^  i-H*       t 

1 1-    1 

i  i^"  ; 

'-Hc■?o:D^^Oicocr)Tt'coc^co^--1-H■^f*c^o^--(y;or^■^"^^^c^•-<■Tt*'--^oOT^cooiC^c^coc^■^^^M 


i^'*'-^-^'— 'OTrOr^rotoccnOOi'M-:fco:o-^OCsococoh--rp. 


Cr)C^CCf-C^b-i-HCOO"tJ^CO!MOOiOcOOO>-<'— 'CCOlMC 


joo^oc-Hco'M,-Ht^r^tr^O(MC^ciiocccor--r^aicooor^-^air^ 


_^.  -iOCCh-O-^c 


)  CO  CI  C-J  iCi  o  -^ 


r-^a)'-'Cscc'*^o:r^i^'-H-rj<oc^r^occt^aiXr-'5oio--Ht--coco.-H'rt*c^cDO'-Hrt^iooc^oo^'*^ 


'0iiOa>OC0C^t^00COO'-HiOOC0'--"O-rt*'*'-HMC^.-t»OC0iO00r:Jl^t> 


CSCCCO'-I         O  1-1 -^  CO  GO         r;^  c^  ■<*< '*      ^ 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO<=5O0COOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


•ococr^oooooooooooiooocooooooooo 


;  o  (t;  o  o  o 
>  00  o  o  o  o 

J"tH  O  O  cr'o"o  tC  r-  O  lO  O  iC  CO  C0''0  ci  O  O  -rt^  O  lO  o 


O-rt^OOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


COTr-OioOOLOt^OcOOOCOOOCOOOiCOOOOOOOCOOCNr-OCCOOOCD-^OOOO 


-         ■  r-   rq  rH   CM  03  '^  "'  —         . 


■'OOOOt:^iCC:>C^»OCO 


oocoio-+;c5iccoo 


ClOOOC^rHOJi-HrHCCO  (MCJlOtN'^COO 


C5  O       -- 

oo    2 


1  OT'  — I  r-  C-i  CO  (M  c: ' 


■^CCOICOCO-^T--— "GOCCf 


iQOOOocoior^i-+<Tt^r^c^^''arirNco^v^moc<iO-rt*oicooo- 


r:l.--<oi^c^^oob^^oc^ll--^Oic>:l':b■^cc^c.--"^^o6cbcoI^Mc^ 


C^r-iC^i— i.-i^C^iMCC<NC<l(M(NcOi-Hi-CTj<->^rP'^ 


J.-HCOCOC^i-HCN<NCOC^CS(N»-lCOC^(:N-«**^.-Hr-«(NN--«CO'-iMCSi~lCSTt< 


c^c^lro^c^^o^^t^^^^^'^^'«*^^^0l0^co»o^|^^^*iocrl•*♦0foalcoasoo^osl^l 


^l,^cocDlOiOO(NO'^^os05*-'u^o 


00'<?''rt^l^C^OaiCOCCO'-HiOC^i-H0030^-^--HCOOiC7lC^Xc6»OiOOOr--OOOiOOOC5-^Tt^ 


HiNOseccoO'— ir^^ec-H.— t 


Oi:ocO'30oiOcoo-Tt<aicccDr-.'rt*cor^oOh-'^'-;;Ci':--^^oi2i2r;^Ii;X2* 


'cri'^CTiTt-ioO'tfeor-c^iotiOOh-Gr^oocricni 


C^Tt'utic-OtOCCh-O'--''— 'OC00Jt^TPtO'^iO^iO--<t---HiOOCCi:OC0rt*c000aiG0t 


4(M4O^Tft^-^G0CD-^r>— ^-H-^ 


lO  r--  CT)  CO  00  iM  Ci 


OCT)Ocrir^rocccot^'^cJir--ioO'— 'Tt^oi 


cdcyfi^--t'c^'--oc>i-^'ocrrcoci'-Hii:)i-Joiooi»ooasoooooO'-HX'Oco-— ic-Jt^b-.^ 

COT-HCOC^C*lC^CCC^-^-»^C*?C^C^iO.-H.-HI--Oi0100i-H-^r-'COO-Tf<'-^C^C^COTt^Cl-rt'i-^-^C^C^ 


cc"^o»0(No:col:cocsoccooal^^oooo^''— 'Tt'cOTt*csc73eO'-Hi--c*:)coooocouoi— icor^t^c^ir^ccoc*tiM 


•  cocrooc^oicc.  roicr---*t'irocj:i(NOOLOCiaicDOcoco-- 'OsciCicoOicoco 


^1-lOloocc^co•^to:o^-(^^rt^lO(^:)C 


-CiOiCCii-Hh-.iO(M"^Oii-tCOC 


ootMOiioeoc^cOr 


5iOOc0050(Mrt<OOCC-^'^COC<100'0' 


sc^cc-— iTtHcor^»oO"^o:iTtH 


^(^3,-_^cooool.— i05Tt<ioo5C^cO'^ccoot^T^«-Hh-ooeoiOh*eoCi'-H05h--^i^ioooo5COT-^gort*^ 

. __    .. ._     .  —     .  —  —  ^    —  —  ^    ^^  .--.■.  ..    .—  ^    — 1  -^  c^  CO  r^  ■— '  CO  CO  CO  fM  o  lO  OS  r^  00  (N  o 

;^,_HO500'<*lQCWCOr^C^t^Ci'*'ct<b»O5 


- .  3  r^  r-  o  r-  c^    - . .  -,  -, —  _,..,_.  -     — 

O3"^t---o— 'coi— 'Onr,  occ(Nooc^co"rt^c^ooiO'— icOi— "co»or^cooir^cOioc 


.— lOit'-r^-^iO'-''— c;o:cO"^»ococot--(N'-ii>-t^-^QOr-'--«DTt<ooc 


^  OS  r^  o  c^  00  c 


Cl  h-  C:  t-  iM  1--  I 


;t^co'*tt--CT)oou:>iccoco— I 


Oit-^CCcOCO-rt^OOcO-'^COOcOas-^COOCO— 'OCsmcOCOCO-^I^OOO— 'CVIOC 


CJ.—         iCC^        (MC^.-hC<I>— '(M'OOO-^C^i— lOCO 


S^^OSiOC^CDOO'yiCiOCTiOi'-^^^CCiT-immcC'MOi^'— 'h-.-'t'r^cOiOCO 


300iCOCS'NCDr-'M— 'lOOiiTOiOCOOiO'DrOM 


^^l0•-Ht^C0'--t'OObs0:■O»/:lTt^'OC0^-C0^0C0■^fCO'--»00C^•--lC0000i^^OQ0CCO'— t«OG0 

ci  ^  lo  oi  od  ^^  ^~'  o  o  oJ  oi  cji  CO  cc  CO  lo  c^  oi  c^*  00  ic  co'  1^  00  o  CO  c-i  r^  CO  ■^'  c^^ 

CO>— ((Mco  Tt'tOiO-rti         CO'— •IC'^CO'— <i— I.— iCOCOl— tCO         COC^f— iTt^C^'— f'-HCq         1— <"^i— <coco— ico-^ 


C1.-IC0MC^^01         COCCCC-HtNcO 


^  6o  oi  '^  --H 


.   _.    4r^ioco--<r^coTt-Tt*'M^-'ff-^io 
-  ^-  -ju  i^j  ■  -  ^-  L-  ?  CO  CO  .— I  CO  OS  (^  h-  c-i  cr.  c^  (M  o:  "-T'  O  oc  vo  h-  oc 

)C5— 'COOt^Ol^OOOr-CDOCSC^GOh-OClCOCOCO-^COCS 

eoiooi"      coio      i-Tr^iO'Oco*.,..  —  -.  .  — 

t-H  r-^t-H  O-— 'C1-— '  CO-^lCCOCO 


o:  "-T'  O  oc  Co  h-  oc  o  o  .  -  -.-  -- 
-■cococo— 'cocsdr-t-coo 

lO  >  o  CO*  oT  CO  »o -H-*  r>r 


cy^OC^I^^'^CICOiO'MC^— 'lOlOO 


■^  iC  h-  00  CO  -^ 


lOOTfr---'.— th--^co 


1  ^         ._.       ■  CO 


^•pf-^^lC!^^o     lOO;o;coco^-^^cs^-^^^•-<c 
)croot--fr^Tt<     icoo^cocooocsoc^oir-O" 


CO  ' 

-(NCT!»001COQOOSC-tiOO»0'— 05 


(M(Mr-.ioo:oco--<c^oo  —  r-'^'— OQr^r^f-.--(ior 


fi-H        oT       tC^-Tic-rfOfNtCoo 


-  o;  O  d  ^- Tt^     I  CO  oi  o  00  c  OS  "^ 


C^  CO  »0  CD  Ol  1 


cooibr^t— ic^-^     ih-'^oococoosc^'^'— «-^LOcoooihi»ocor--coo50ot^oscooC'*<N»0'^-^'^c^O'Tpco     ic^co»or^oocO'— 'N 
"co'oT      00  c^f -rt^"  oT  h-T      ococo  CD      o  •^ci'c^      rCco  i-T     o     I  lo  rococo  Oi-Tio  CD 


0000"*'^^ONi«      'CICC'I:^ 


Oi  ocs  o      oa  c 

^  ^         ^         CO 


5  .--  >0         OS 


'^         '-<«'-' 


-7t<  o  CO  CO  00  -^  r 


'OiC'Jc^c^ji^rciioi-^cO'^ooco-r+'O'— losor^ooosio 


?  o  r--  T*^  -^  o  c-i  c 


lOi— I— it-^cO',— ir^c^Ttioi'— ico»oio-^cooc^i 


lOCOCTiOSfNCO'^OOOC 


-Ocor^-OOOO^OO-^OC^COCDC^l-t^— (CO'—'O 


stM-^osooi-or^i. 


>  CO  -^  --('—'  Oi 


1-H   >— f  CO  i-H  T-H   -^   t-.  .— I  I 


JCO'-HCOiOCOCOiOTt^-^COCOC^'Oi— "CDCOCMCOCOC 

rio  CO  oTt^tC      cyfrH       i-T      i-Tcoci" 


coct'tor^-ocoicoi.. 
loooscsiooor-^csoo 


O  ,-H  CO  1— I  OS  i-(  1— I 


OS  CO  "O  r--  00  oo  f*^ 
CM  -rH  ^-  to  r-  -H  c^ 


r^(NCDC0O00-rt<OCDC0CCOC0»O0S'-^00OO'— il^OC^OuO'-'eOiO-^OlcOOSCl'O^COOiOOsoO^ 


-  OOrO  w  CD 


30sC0C00S00OG0r^c0»O0S>OC0C0O 


^OiCD'MOOCMOlOO'^COOOCO'— <OT«r^03 


■^»OTfC<IC^OSCOCOC<lCOTt"«— 'lOOC^iCOsCOOOcOcOI^-rt*'— '03QCrt^C0t^C0t^CS0sCD0S1~<Oc0I^OC000O00^^ 


■-*'  CO  CO  ■^  c 


sosooscoc^o      1— ittc*      r-co 


-co-^o^b-comoooscocoh-fMr^-— 'lOC'i'-'Ci'-HOOt^OfNr^cot-^i^'^'— 'CD 


(M.-<iCO'— 'QC-— iCOCOr-HCJ         COOS-^'-' 
OltM  coco  ^         CO 


DiOClCOCOfM'TT.h^r-, 
COOCO-— iOSi-«Tt<iO 


OltXiCOl— tC>lC?»OOS— '■^— -OC00sC0lO(^^00OC0OG0C0C0^^0:|^^CCC0^00^-»O■^Tt^^Cl0C^OC0O0S0S^-CC;^t 

oic»r^c:;oooco-HT+'cr.—  cot^'-HO'^coosu:iOcooooosM''-'ioooocDCOi— 'C^lO(^^l^oocooccouo■>«t^^^-^co•*^^^ 
cDcocDOS'^occooc<iooor-.aoiooioa:!-^oioco»coosuo-<#.-Hcocococoor--'-<ooi— (co-^j^ocooOLQuor^coioc^iioi^t^ 


■  r-(  cr  tc  OS  "^  d  c 


CSOOCr'r*'Osh-i-lC^»-Ht^(N-tJ*h-'<:t^OCOC 
lO  00  CO --H         CO  ^-  "  — "' 


!)  »0  CD  TttosOsOCD'^COiO-^COOS'OOSOSOOCOCO'^C'JOSTr^Ot^iOOsOCOiCCO'^a^OCvJOJh^C^ 


-CO-<t"  OS  OS  c 


JCIOOCOtJ^C^-**         COrH 


t~^oscO'-HCOC^co'00'^coc/:ii>.Tt*cocM'-<"^c?^»co«or-.oco 


oocrionooococ 


■jooooqoooooooooooooooooococdooooooocsooooooo 
---  —  -"  —  -^oooooooooooooooooocmooc -,  —  —  — 

OClOOOOGCOOO^OOOOOOO-^iOOt 


_  :  O  O  oo  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  OCM  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  c 

ocoocooocoocorJ^o^-oo»?i^^-0'^^oooOGC■ooo^ooooooo-^lOO^*ocoooooooocoooo 

o  o  >;♦<' o  cf  ic  r^  o' 00  ^^  o' ic  o' lo' CO  co"  oo  oT  o"  o' ■^"  o' to  o  »o' cT  rr  o' o"  o  o' t^  ^ 

-«Dr^tCOOCIM^wCO'-lCSiOt--C^'---#^^OCOO'<^OOt^OcOOO— '^  «!.— ,«r^«««-^^^ .^^         ^-.f-,         r^lpr^«-,.r^ 


O  00  CO  CO  OS  t— -—I  CO  O         C^  ^         CS  CD  CO  1 


'WCOTflOtOt^COOsO'-HClCOTt^ 


i  h^QO  oso  .-I  cq 


b-QOOsO>— iC<ICO'^tOCDt^OOOsO'— iC^COTt<iO«Ot^QOOsO'— iC^ 


roeococococococo■^Tt'Tt•■TJ^Tt^■^Tt^■^"^•^^c^lC^OlOtOl0^^l0^^cocDcocDcDcococDcDco^--^^^*^^^*^-■^*t^ 


3086 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


><^  c  i^  _ 


J  ft  O  O  <^J^ 


'  CQOi 


CO  C^        .  r-^  t^ 


1  a  °  — 


-  a  S  ao2 


oooO'-hioococo:d;occcoooO'-i 


OOCO.~cai<Ni-iCOQOCOI>. 


u:5r^05ioc^c^i'^cO'^coco      coo* 


lO  t-H  t>-        I— I  O        ^  00  T^<  *o 


a;  g  «:> 


C^'MOlOOCl'-HOC"^— <- 


'  X)  C^  C^  CN  Ol  GO  <: 


^fCCftOiOOOCCCO 


osi^'30-*^o-^o:oc^cc— ^o^^(^^poroI-^c^IX)o:40^C"(N^-. 
OT  C^'-rtl'^jTcc  C^CO --H  rI^"cO  •-i"»-H  cr5"o  CO  c4"fO  O         od'^t-^O  CO  ■- 


^  dO^  ^1-H  (N 


O  Tf        CO  CO  ?0  lO 


ooooooooooooog 
oocooooooooooS 

OC:0*OOOOCOOCOOO'^ 
-^  00  lO  00  O  O  Oi"  CO  O  O  lO  iC  o  § 

'-'   c^   »r3  ic   -H  ^  (M   (M  o  ?=; 


ooooooooooo 

OOiOOOOOOOOO 
OOC^IOOOOOOOOO 

o  o  «5"  to  c?  o  00  (^  o  o  cT 


f^o.S'S'O' 


.Tt*Or^O'-H(MO-T'CJSC0»0»000iOC 


■^  Oi  r-  CO  r-  -^  »o  o 


OOiOCCOir--t^GC»CCMt^^OOOOOr^<NO(NO'-<CS-^t-OJCD 

cd'*aiolo•~'^-^cdoocsioa5^■--!c5cocic^icc^^c6c^o■-H■TJ''c^i 

CM  C^»  ^  r- (N  M  .-H  r-i  C^ -^JH '.^    i-H  C^  (N  CS  CM  CN  (M    CO -h  CM  i-i  (N  C^ 


OlCOOi^Or-.— iOOOCMCOt>-i— lOOCOt^COOJOCOCOOCiCO'— <(NCS 
'^OOOiOCCiOi-HCOO'^i-HTj^i-irHCOuOuO-^tN'dOl"— lOOS— '"<*< 

o6cico»OTJ5^^^CTJJ(Nr^^u5-^CM»ocs»docM<d*0"^*oi^^'Ood■^ 

OCDr^C0C0OC0CS«0t>-*0^N'-'t^C0C<I*0C<|rHi0i-H'^C0  05<© 


a>  O 


S  S'3<2 


S^gSg 


CC  c»^  C^  M^  CO  M  ^ --^  rO  r^  TT  ^  —' CS  CO  CC  CC  CS  CO    ■*!<  ^  C<1  .-i  co  co 


£  «  o  a  o  S 

■^   '^    o  tS-S  '^ 


■^oioiOocoo— taiQC^-c;CM»ot 


iM"w(M(MO^GOCS 


^t^OOCMMCO'^iOCO'-'CO'OOCO^D^CSTr^CCCftCO'^O'O'^D'^ 

*c■^ooodoiuo^^o6'-H'o6odcooou:5oT^oico:Do6oaiO(^io 

OCM05r^Tfrt*C0CN00C0iOCM(NCMO'OC0«:c0— i^CNO-^ClCM 

1— iCSCMr- (  r-H.— (  CMC) 


.2  <D  T?  .2  '^'^ 


00'O00l^r^t^CC't-^0)iC't*<Mr^-JD00O00t^»CQ0— it^CTSCMCMt^ 

oO'-'0:co^iocoTt^LccyDC*j»ob-»ou:i-^— "»ocD-^Tt4— (ocO'-''-H 
<— '.-HTfO'-'t^'-'cocMoooioowcot^oocor^»ocioor-oicooo'<j^ 

1— .  .-I  .-H  .-H  ^  to  1—1         CM  CM  GO         lO         CM         CO  »0  •-' CO  i-<  i-h  (© 


^r-^      "l* 


^^5  "=■  Ct- 

S  o  o  g-^ 


t^OOOSt^t^Or^t-'^'— 'OO'—CO^COOl'-'OM-Ci'^'O-^J^i— «— ( 
Ot^'O'^COCOOiOiO'-HOSOO'^t^O'-H'^CDOiCOtOOTt^COCO"^ 

o-^Qd--^ocdu::'coco^ioosco»0'**cic^Tfi^t^ai<D-^''--*CM'io 


COCM^tOCOCM         »-H  CM  " 


1-1  CM  CM  CM  CM  01  CM         .-• 


c-ic:icr^CMcc-^t^cor^cOGOc:iC*ioocD(£;ciio»cccr>.cDcocDQO 

CCOOCM^OOOOO  —  COCOOO(McDtCCOCMCOI^'^Tj-r^COO-^»Oa: 
*OO:CMCi0"^'— 'CM^OOlt^— 'O"^t^'--"'^^O00t^0iOb*00-^01 

<c -ti^ -rj^ cm" K oT      i-T^cT      CO  CO --^CM  CO -H  QC  ^00  o^co '-^  oTic 


o  '-'  Tj-  -^  ori  lO 


CO  »o  iC  ! 

;  o  oo  CO  b- 

lO '^CO  CM  CO  to 


'tO'^rt't^OOOOt^CT-l^-lOO 
OiO'-HOOlOlOlCMiOCD 
COO»Ot^t--'-H-*'t:J'l>.CO 


^  CM  O  --H  Oi  >-<  O  ' 


— '  t^CM  t- 
b-  CM  CTS  r^ 

CO  Oi  •— I  ^ 


1©        ooio 


SO'-'iO^'-'CCOsCiCOC 


jooooiooooor^'cco-^' 


COCOOCib-OlCOOCiCi'^GOOi'— 'M'COCMCOCO'-HOi'— 'COCOi— <C0  01 


Ci  Ol  r-"  t^  O  ■^  CJ  » 

i-T     .-Tco 


t^Tj^CM-^COCOtOTtHOSCOOOOlCM--?" 


^  .-*  .— .         CO         <-t 


"^  CM         .-HO 


O'OCO'^OiOt^'^GOCMOOuroOCCCOTt^CDOCOb-'^lCiOOOiO 


CM  Ol  CM  O  CO  -(^  CO  C 


:)  c^i  — '  00  ^  — •  crs  CO  t 


5  -^  Oi  ^  00  -^  O  CO  ' 


r^Ot^05«D0iC0G0— 'CO-— iaOCO'^COCM0000Tt*CO00t^COCMCMTli 
^  O  CM '^  Tt-*  CM  CO  O  00  tC  CO  O  »0  CM  00  O  CO  CM  00  CO"  O  b^  O  CO 


CM  CM  CM  CM  CM  t^ 


CO  CM  en       00 


to   1-H    r-H    TJ"    T 


gas 


^^O'^iOirr^COC^JCMOlCOCCpC'l-^CI^CMlOtOOOCOCOCM 

--'Ooooicooot^oo'^'^cccotct-^c^ioaciOT-oaiiOGOO'^ 

CMOOCO'— 'OCOOOtOOsCMi— iCCO'^'— 'COCMOOCMCMCCOOCO-^-^ 

lOCOOS'-'CO-^^OCMCO        C3rJ">;;<CMrO'-H.-<CM-HC^)coiOCMt--CM 
^  CM  CO'-'      -         CM  r-<         cO00-Hi-ii-(         t>- 


oooooocooooooSoooooooooooo 

CDOO»OOC^OOOOOOOSoOOiOOOOOOOOO 
OOlOCiOOOOOOCOOO'-^COOOCMOOO— 'OOOOO 

— «  CM  iClO  CO'-'CM  -'-•'-^^^  ,-.,-vi_«^.   ,—,,—,  ^,  cr-,   —   _r-^ 


CM  O  o         CO  CM '^  CM  O  O  GO  CO  T^  1-1  O 


i2  o 

O  (0 


1  I  I  )  I  t  I  I  >  I  r  t  I  I  I  rO  ^  IM  CO  ■3' »0  «5  t^  00 
..  .HOSOt^OOOiO^HtMCO-^iOeDr^COCJiOOOOOOOOO 
00000000000000O5OlOiOiOiO5OiO>CDa;^^H^^r-«T-Hi— i^Hi-ti-H 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTEY 


3087 


^ccooo^r^■^OOal>-H'-HcNo^^oOMOc^alc^•--<co■^lO'-HO'--^lO^*tow:)OcDu^oosc^•^c^c^ec.-*.— <eo 


1^  rt<  O  1^  C 


t^C0i0iO22-^«DiC00.X)i0C'JOl>.O-^asC^0i0iOCD 


OCNt^<0^^-(^CD05t-^C0C0 


^^I>■^-r--^»^-.r^^^t^t^^^^*^-•^-t>-^^^-^-^*^*^^r-.^^r^r'■t--^-•r^l^^-.^^^^I--t^r 

'-HCOCO'-HiOOOu^QOC^OO'-HOO^COOlOOXySCNcCrOrHOOC^t^C^GOCSOC^r'lOc 


-  r^  t^  t^  i^  t 


I--  t^  t^  t^ 


C^>-iCSC^CNCOCOO 


(NCOrOCNCOCNCSCMCOCSC^^(N(N 


2  2 
OO, 


e  H  S 


o    . 


5§ 


iO  6 


.x:j3 


.X3 


■§  57-3  '^'S-  S-^---- 


ceoo  c  S  w 


..a  ' 
u 

-  aj  a  : 


2  j-TJ 

2  =  iSO 


o  o  > 

is  is -2 

.„  o)  a>  cd 


03  O 

g^  a  g-i^ 

t«  T3  m  o  1) 

c  j3  .H  ^<B  g 


3^  o  o 

o  ®  Js 


^_  o 
— .  on 
o  o^ 

^^1  :  ;o  = 

.2  3  »  °  o  "  ■  ^ 


o 


„  o 


•^s-S? 

2  0  ^ 

C'C  § 

i;  3  m  c 

O^K. 

j^.t;  <u  o3 

e^puKo 

HKb 

MS" 

Qi   cl   O   ^   ^ 


o  a 


^^i^§" 


-^  C  0^  1>  ®  G 

ccOeS-'E-iO 


■r  --  (3  c  3  o 

cs  >-  «  o  fi^  o 
p-i  — -c  2  aE-i 

~>^§^^ 

0>5-  O^t-*  O 

is  »">>»  <oV, 


<5^So 

Jr  a  o  — 
0~  ttm 


03  73 
"^   03 

o  a  a 

x:  — "^ 
o  o  ^ 

£5   O  *J- 

a  "►^ 


H  o 
.S  ^ 


tea  = 
III 


O 
_  o 

&^o 

atH 


lOcor^oooiO'^iM!: 


'•O'XJt^OCO^O'— 'C 


lo^t-^oocjio-— tc^fc^iccch-ooajO^HC^iro-^iocDt^coos 


T^-rt^"^Tj<'<^io^u:i^u':iOioiO'JOO^ocoo<:o^cotccDOt^r*i^i---t^r-r^t--t>-r^ooc»ooc» 


'rt*t^Or^OOCD'y?OC0-^<M'0        CO^(N(MC1CCOO(©^OOiMO»jrDrt<0' 


^r^O'-HOOQOco':D'XcocoaocR-^cocs^ 


t^.-<OCOOGOOOOCO 


'<*<0'*'CDcoccot^t-*OfO.-HOt^fog;'— I      cocc^xiooTfOirc 


CSpi-^'^'iXOOCOr-.OCOiO'Oi^^OOCOCCiOOGO'— tooioojoor^ 


T-H  o  CO  Cft  oi  <; 


.JOcOiO<— 'I— (OCOCO 


1— '■— lOC^-— 'OOOOO-^'-H-— lOcoOCS        C^CSiOOO'-HOOOOfMO'— "I— "'—'•— 'OOOOtNfNO'MO 


' r-  r-  i^  t^  r^  r^  r-  t^  t^      r^-  r-  t^  i->.  r>.  r^  i-^  r^ 


iQiOiOtO'OLO'CiOiO' 


OOOCC!MCOGOCOQOOOC30CDO-^OCNC^ 


CMCO  (N  C^  1— •  ^ 


CO  CS  '-t  CS  ' 


"^'^'  CCCSCO(NCOCNCO 


.     .    .  .  r-  r-  r^  t-'.  r-  I—  r-* 

CNCMCNlMCSlCCtNiOCOM 


-  r--  r-  t-  r^  t 


S 


±2^  ._- 


■O  03 

■  a 


:*  ;p:?  i;-a  L 


03  o  O 


;  a  (p-_^     ^ 


-O  ajT3> 
°o£Sco.-o5S»a2aQoo:'r;^2o!oj 


•o  2  §  -  '"l^-S  w 
• — '  ^^^   -"^ -o   *  - 
en    "Ot-(-«oo^ 

bl  a  bJ3  o  O  M  bf,.- 

Co  rt  fcj  k^  03  oj  o 


>-"«o>.t;oaj.S^o3--»MO!:a.oj=ocx:x:aj 


-a  .M 
-cow    » 

o  o^ja 
rtOccO 


«  3 


Joo 


o^°.2^! 
ill  5^' 
''„  aSo  03 

a)  £  4)  »  is 


03  «  — 
x:j=  o 
OEhR 


2  °.9n 

03  o       T3 

d  cg'oP-i 


■a-Sfc^  go 
0«B  b„ 
S§«M;a 

03  a.a  £5 
CD'S  <u  2-2  . 


-do* 

-S   O   c3 
03  >i._^*^ 


2^ 
O— ■   ' 

o;  o  ; 
a  (3j,' 


2»S-«o.H 
■g.9§  go-go 

03  J3t^--;  oj  03  0 

g§1||afeOo 
•S  ®  a'*^  o.S  o  <u 
2  o2^2  >..?  o  a 

S  00 --^  03  "t<B 
o:5  >'S.>'i.  03  >-'^ 


•^2jc  S- 


._  a) 


Z^O  o  . 
o  oiO  o 
o  g    .0 

a  o3<;  o 

§g°3xn3 
Z-2^  o  o 

a  c  3  o  o 
03  n  03  o  o 


•ao 

o  o  o 


ali 
.3  o  g 

52o 


E°«o 

E  a>  o 

Q2t- 
•3  "Sao 

<o2'S  ■ 

OJ4^     . 


3088 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


CDOlt^OOOGO^Oi— 1»0 

c<Jt-Occc»o;r^oco 

OOOO^O^OrfO 

.— iiOiM'-H^iOCJO.-iQO 
(M  CO  .-<  C^  rH  cC 


.  a> 


•  a  *'o 

cb'S  C  (D 


'3   O^    CD 


•S~=Sf^o 


OOOCrOOOOO 


0iO00t^C-1O0lC0*Or- 
TfOOlOcOCMOC^— I'M 
C^^O  —  OO^i-tO— t 

t^  t^  t^  "C  t^  t^  t^  t^  r^  r^ 

coco        CO        ^C^C^CICO 


^^ 


Sq 


mQCPhD 


d.2 

!ooo 


-  o 
°  oo 


S  o 
ccO  o'o 

tJ''^  .2  •-  O 

■^  o)  OJ  a>  ;3 


cS  °  S 

£g3.S5 


ia-3g-5.:s-s^s2 

H       ^  _Z  —  ^ 


I  -^  ^  lo  oo  o 


I  »Ci  CO         C^  05  T-H 


w 


5  a.S 


£:  ®  p  aooi 
•^^  ^  o  «2'^'^ 

CL(i«    g    O   "^ 


t^i— iCSC^t^COiOCO^CCOQO 
00  »0  CO  O  <-i  '**  ^  0>  ■^*  ^*  «D 

'<a*iOTt<cswc^coM'i!)*eoso 


C^iOOCC«00'^--**COC^05 
•-''T'COCOCC»CC1CS'-COSUO 
t^COCOOO'-'COJ^OOCOiCiO 


ooo-— 'C^t^-t-COOOcOOt^ 
rj*  r-i  C^         GO  (N  C^  00  C^l 


ooooooooooo 
ooooooooooo 
ooooooooooco 
o  o  o  "TT  o  o  tj^  o*  o  lo  i-T 

OOiOr-iOOt'-OO         1-H 


o^'^t  5:;*-^  3_S  >  ^^ 


ooiO'ocor-^'^'^Oic^ioos 
coc^ioooor^t^o<:coco 
ioof5'-Hot^wcocoioo»o 


"■^  o  Ss:^  35  OS'S" 


Oconocooc^rOTf*cDi-t 

COOO^l^'-iOO^O'* 

oiiOtNt^TpfC'^OOioO"^ 
C^t>-C^-^CONTpOSCOSDiO 


COCO00I>-— 'C0*^05»OMiO 

^oot^'-<t'-oO'rfOir-a> 

GO  -^  CD  lO  r-I  C^i  CO  c4  t>^  CO  O 

i-H-^MOTfCNcOCOCOTt^CO 


Ph 


t;  =J  3  aoc2 

®  i-    o   *  'S 


Ot^^COOOOS^C^OOC^ 
C^,_(,-4,-,iO-^C^;D-^COCO 

iOOiodiOCOC^-HOC»fOO 

CO-— 'Csr^»ococDtNior-cD 


— iC-lGOTriOOitOOlOCOCO 
Oi-HOOlOOi  —  OOOSOTt* 
OO'-icoiCCsOOOO-^'-" 

OT  O  ^  «D*"  GO  CC  CO  O -^  CO  CO 

(NiOi-H      CO  c^  CO  r^  O 


S  o  o  §55 
Ph  o  ^.S 


Tt^C^COiOOJOCJO^OliOCD 
coo^ocoo-^-— 'OS-^MOS 

4ct^air^icaiodod(Nt^t^ 

t-H  CO  <-<  CO  CO  1-t  CS  C^  00        ^H 


H*" 


00»0-^QO^-^^COCDCD 

ocsM'coasoiccoc^cO'^ 

Tt*(MI>0iOC001G0CSC^C0 

10  Goc^f  CO  10  CO  c^'ctToo   i-T 


o  o  t^ 


lOiO-^— 'C^COt^COcOCS'^ 

iO"^CSi— 'COCO-^CiCS'^^O 
coco  O  »0  C^  O  00  »o  ^    C> 

CO  GO  CS  CO  CO  rr  O  CS"  lO 
€^I>-      CO    .—I  0  00 


fl  s  g 


ITS'— 'i— 'Ocoor^oit^t^c^ 

TfOOCSC^COCOOCO'M'— lOS 
O^^t^'^GOCO'— 'C^OC^CO 


I— 'oocoioeooOi-^cooiTti 

OCOtiOCNOOcOC^^CDOi 
CSrOOiOO'^OiOiCOcD"^ 

^  GO -ri''"  orjH*  c^*  ic  oi"  cs'co  t^ 

COCO.-<.-i.-.CO"^t^O 


50 


OrO^OS'-'C^GO— 'ai<Nl>- 
CD^t^-^GOr^GOCOOSOSfH 
OCO'^'— 'OOO-^iCcoCl 

o -^'"  c^*  CO  CO  r^  cT  oT  CO  00 -^ 

Oi  CO  U3  i-«  1— <  rr  CO  CO  Oi        C^ 

,-.   iO  lO  -H   r-H   .-H   r- 


5^v 


ooooooooooo 
ooooooooooo 
oooooooo»oocc 
ooo-^*"ooioo't-^uo^ 

O  O  "Si-"  O  O  t^  O  ^   f-( 


t-H(NCO-^lOeCt^OOOO^H 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3089 


00  t^ 

«dc>o 


)  ■^  05  00  "^  CO  O  00 


'^  '<f  b-  -^      I  lO  ^ 

r- 1  Oi        t  to  t-^  --t  Oi        "  "^  CS 

coo    i-^ocSid     1  03  lo 


CO  35     ib-t^ 


oocooo'Mt^'-icriC^ooi 

CN'NC^OOO0000"^<M 


cococo!Nooi^-^oior^'^to»cir^cs^ooo»oosr^oO"^a3C^c<)^io 
looooi'— 'coooooooooccocoO'^ooo'O-^co^oaioococDOaO'— ICC 


0<M0  40  05C^  00 
Ci  00  C^  CC  00  C^  00 


CCOiOiMOOOOO-^CO"- 


CSO— <05C^OC0'-Hi— i^C^CCt^cDOO'— •CSiQ.-'Tf'^CDtOOt^Tt^ 


—•■^CCOi        -H  t 


C^         rH  .— 1  O  lO  O  •***  C^  rji  CD  1-1  C^  (N  -^  r- 


CO  C^t  (N  ■©  '^  CO  -^ 
O  CO  <-<  "-I  CO        ■— ' 


lOCOOO'-H'^OCDOlO'— < 

COOiOOOOOO-— 'GOcOt^ 

COCDC^t^F-CcT-^rJ^rC 


COt^COO— tcOOCOfO-^C^OOS'NCCCO-^OOiCD-^iOCOClOSOiOOO'— i^^O-^-^O-^OCDOOC^C 


iCiOr-OOC^OOiomcOt^OOOcOCSCO-^OCOOOt^CO'^I"-— tCOOiOCiOOC^C^-^ 


00  (N  "H  CO  -i  :-<  » 


^OO-^-^CDt— iCiCO'— 'COCiCOCDOOOCOOltOt^OiOOcDOiCOO-^COOO         C^t--r-.-tCO'^COOCi 


COCO  C^  (©OC^  »-*        lOCOCS         i-Ht-hOOO^         C^t-        Tj^^MCO^         T-H 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOO  lOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
QOOOOOOOOOOOOO  lOOOOOOOOG^COOOO-^OOOOOOOOOO'OOOO 
O'OOO'OOOOOOOOOO      iOOiOOOOOOO'--'t^'-'I>-CCOOO<MOOOOOOCiOO^O 


ooooo  oo 
oooo  oo  o 

O  O  t^  Oi  Oi  *0  O 


.-I      oooo      cs  c^  lo     1 1^  .-t  ir^ 

^  o  c^       <-< 


OCSiOtPOiOiOO-— '■^lO'^tC-^OiOOiOTfiOO'OiOU^OCOO 


■<  iM  t^  CS  CS  -^ 


<-t  CD  -^  O  O  !>•  -^ 


O  O  iM  'Tt*  CO  -^  O 
C^  O  Ol  >— '  ''J*  C^  "^ 


■.s^O'--<o•-^^^"^oa5ooo^-ooooo^-cDo■^osocDoo■^cD■^oo^--oocoooooocDco•*^ocsoooo^-•»o'^^^»ooo■— fcooo 

Ot^'^CDOcD'— l05alOOO•--•CD■^OOCOCSoO^-^^ai^^OOO"^COOllOt^^*GO^OOOQO"*00'-^'-^05«OTJ^oooO'-^'-^OCSlOCO^ 

oo1-H^^rHcocio6oi^-^■^■^■^ococd^^o6o^coojcocdoo5C^^>--^^oi 

iiic^UlMC^C^CiCO.-HC^l-.O;^nH^rHC^^^rH;OrHiOC0C<»iOC^^C^CO.-i(?^COCSM«X^W 

OcOOOOOC^I^COC^OC^OOOC^OOCOi— (>— i^Hi— lC005C0t^n*i0C0iO"r1HC<JcDOOOOC0Tt^C0"^CDC^C0'— 'O 
(^Ot^"0CDcD'^Tt*i— •OSCOOOr-^C^OOOI>-iOCOCS'-HOOOOcDO'-- '•— <«0'*rOO'— •COOOCOOiCOOOcDcDOi'^t^OiO'-HCJCOC^ 

* ""■'"lO'— <01'^C0'~HCDCSOC^00I>-'— iCOTt<COC*l>— iiOC^'— ti-4 


)OC5--tCDiOC<»C^O^->*<0:OOOCDOt--ror^OSCOCSC^iCOOCOO"^COOOOI^I^COOOCOOO--'^5'^OCDt^OOOOOO'^C^Ci»0 
SC^C^'Ou^t-^O'^OOI-^OOiOCiOOCDt-^.-HOOr^C'^'— tOSO-— l0i0^O0i01^^C0t^OI>•OOC^TJ1r-HC^C0OO^C00T}<c0C0 


OSOO^OOOS^OCO^'^iO 


OO'^iCOOOC^JC^Ot^'^CDCO'^C^CDOCsOO'^'— •TTC^-Tt'kOoO-- 'CSh-CSOiCOt-COOOOO 


i-HC^C^C^C^COC^CDCSCO'-^COCS---*T-'C^COC^^CSCOC^OCOC^OCSClC^Oi-iCOCOCOC^COCSC^C3cD'-iC^COC^COC^'^ 


0^■CDGO'-HCDCOCD■— tO"^O'--OCDt^OOi0ClcDO00OCDC^O'--'t^O00f0Q0CD00'— lC^■-HC000^^^-C^O0if^^C0"^lO05»O 
r-tTtiOC^OS'OOOOOCDOC^OC^CDOOOiOCS'^O'^ClC^'^C^^'— lOCDOOiOOCOU^OiCCOCOCScOCOOi'—i-Tf^O'Or^ 


OCDCO-^iOl'-C^O'— 't--C^OiOC^-^--H--HC^Tt<OiO>OCO"^'— •>— 'OiOTt*cO>— iu^0i00OC^i0'»t<00f0'^r--O 

r^ocooooocDOi'— 'ooooco-— <t-^'-iC*ioi^o-rrc^c^cDooc^cococ^'-H'rt*too-^cor^oocooc^'-Hcoc^Tf*05o^ 

t^O0SO00O05"^00*0OCD>— <■— <C^C^Tj<c«C-^00-^C000aiC0Oc0cD0iOC0O'-HC^O0iC0O00C00iiOOC0C^I>.r^O0i'*J<CD 
MCOCO»-l  *C  O  CO        C^  1-1  r-H         ,-^         (N  ^         -^  CO  iM  >-<  ^  --<         CO  r-i  iM  ^  CD  O  CO  •-<         t^        W         i-l  lO  i-l         i-H  r-l 

005COCOaiOCOOOCOiOOCOC<|i30^^  •— lO'-*00*O'—  oo*— '05COl-^00'^t--CDOTf<Tf''^COlC»Ot~--r^t^C5COOiC^'Ot^COC^05 

ot^'^cD'-HOscO'— <^^oooci^cooooo^^'— 'OcD-— tc^Trooa50csooo■^^-oO"<*<Trco^*cot^oocsoool^*cooi'— 'O 
<^cot^coc^O"^t^ooioo6odcocd    .^-^oo5lOcocc"ocoai'0^oodooocsI>^■TJic^i^^cc5c4csodoco"cDcDod^ 

C^i-lC^C^  CSCOi-tCO  (N   rH   —I  CO  — <  lOC^lO-^r-H  rH   ^  CO  i-H   'M   — .  CO  rH  (M  (M   -<  i-H  ^   i-H  C^   ,^1  CS   CS|  ^-^  CC   ^   -^   ^ 


1— icDiooooi05cocDo^oooooc^ocooor--ocD'Oh-.ooc5co'^-n*'— 'C^coooasoor-t^r--:0'-'- 


3000i0000OC0cOC^CO'-^I'.^Ht-.t^r-.Tj<(N0000C 


J  05  »0  CD  C^  O  05  t^ 


^OIOIJO'— '»0»OtOCD— 'COTtHr--.— lOO^OTj-OiC^OiOiOCiOtOCOM 


C^o6»OCDCO'-iOO'^00'^C^COOOt--C^'^COOOO'-tiOOO'— i'-<I^'-<CSt--C^00r^Ot^'— 'COu^TpiOTT'^COC^OO'— 1^ 


>  r>- o  CO   cs  o  CO  CO   ■— '  CO  c^ 

.-I         CO  CS  t^    .-1 


lO  ^    CN  CD  CD  OS  M 


I  C^  CO  >— I  Ci  C^  CO  »0   00  C^  lO  1— 1  C^  "^  (M  C 


t--  Oi  Oi  CO 
•itf*(MTr  CD 

uDio'odci' 


^oo  r- 

)  T}«  ^  r-H 

D  lO  r*  o 


00  — '  CO  -— «  00 

CO  -"tf  o  -^  o 


a>  00*^  00  CM 


OOOCOiOcDCOCOb-OOCDCO>*^'^i— •h-COCOCOCOOOO'«** 

lo  CD  »o  lo  c^  CO  Tf<  o  r- o  o  o   CO  o  cs  00  o  oo  Oi  O  O 

■^  OS  t^  "^  lO  CO  CO  CD  Oi  00  "*  —    "' ..  —  - 


C^uOCOC^-^CDt^^-* 


^  OS '^  CD  1-*  lO  O    b- ^  Tf  C^  .-«  CO  f-H  !N 


.-lb^COt>-0005COCDOS»00:DcDC^Or^»J30S'«**OOSOOC^'— "OOCOC^O-— 'b-.iCu^-^COr^-^OOO'Or^OuOOOCOOSCOCDiO'— ICO 
■^OOSOOOOI^OSUOOCDCSOOSt^OSOO'— lOOOOlCOiOCO'-'OC^CDiOOSOO^HCD'— 'OCO-— 'C^OsOSCOOSOSOSt*'— i^-^ 


.-ir^COt>-0005COCDOS»00:DcDC^Ob-»J30S'«**OOSOOC^'— lOOCOfNO— 'b-iCu^-^CO 
■^OOSOOOOI^OSkOOCDCSOSOsr-OSOO-— iiOOOOlCOiOCO'-'OS'McDiOOSOO^HO'-' 
C^Tj<MC^r*.-liOOO'-'»OCSOOOO(NO(NiOCD'-iOO-^CDt^I^i-«'*}<OCSCOt--COC^CO 

i-T  w  c^"  c^i"  of  o"      1-i"  ^  i-T      1-H      .-T  cm'  00  ^  ^      cs  ^* 

CO  >-< 


csoo»ocDiooc^»o^oscDai*or*CMTt< 


OCMOOC^'^cOOOOOOSC^Tt'CO'^-— •■^O01-H05-HOOCMOTr'^0S»O»Ort*C000b^OOCM^^'^^'Oi--u^0SQ0^H--t'0S^H|^ 
«•«1''-^00^-•OOOO^QOTt•CDOCMOSt^^CM*t^O■— Or^OCOC^r^C^OiOO-— 'lO-— 'CMO'~*CO'-HaOcD-^CMt^'^--«|-*Os 
OOSiOC^C^-— iOOOOb*OCOCSOOOT«OOOCDCMOOOO'— '<— tCSOOCO— I'^OOOO'^'^O'— ii— •COr^C'lOOOO'OiOCDi— ic^*o 

-^ooco^^^co-— I'-^^^oo'^o-^or'^o'-^'os''— <'cox"oscT--"tp?oi--^0'^"'^^ 


C^ -^*<  Tf  1-t    1-H  00  CM  CO   Tf  cs  ^ 


CI  --I    OS  t^  UO  c^  ■-< 


COl-HOOCO'^t-Hr-lOS 


) -H  CM  O  ^  <-i  I-l  CM 


5r--OOCMh-CO'^05'^COr^O'-'COOOSCOCO»000-^"*CMCO— 'OOt^COOSiOOOOSCOOO-^CMoO'-'CM-HOOOOOt 
SOOCDOcOcDiO^OO— '--OOO^iOOCOOSr-00-^OsOt-^CD^OOb-^—  Olio  *"•""  —  —■*-  -'-'i^^^-- 
lOcDO-HOOOtOtOTTCDCMO^OOOOCOCOOS— lOOtO-^OS— 'OOCOOt^b-CMCD— «- 


SOSOOOSOS-Ht^CMCMr^' 


■*r'-oooo'^oosot--'— iioo 


o^ioo-HOOsoqocor^oor^b-oosioos-^'^oooooicO'^t^ooCMcD^ 


CM  O  O  CD  lO  ^ 


•^-^Xh-GO-^^OSCM-^CMc 


lOOOO-HXCMCMOSi— '  —  r^-— 't^OSiOCOO        COClb'-''— 'OO-— I-— "OSiOOOiO^HioCMOCMO'^COOOOCMcDCMTt< 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCMOOOOcDOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOC 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOt^OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOC 
OOOOOOOO-— lOOOOOOOO'OOOOOOOOOSOO'OOOt^CMOOTfOOOOOO'OOOOOt^C 


oooooor 

CM  O  CO  O  CO  ^ 


OSOOOOOOCOO■^OlOOO-HcXilOO^^■ThCM^OO'0^*000000■— 'CTcTiO'irrCM'TjH'co'Tf'O 


CMCMiOCMI^-^OO-Hr-iCM 


CM  X        i-H  CD  O  O  O  b- lO 


5t^CMCMCMOSr-<T}*CM"<JH 


CMC0^»OC0t--000SO'-iCMC0Tt<iOC0r^000SO'-tCMC0Tj*iOCDI^000SO'-<CMCM'<J*40CDI^000SO'— 'CMCO-^iJOcOr^OOOSOi-HCM 
i-li-H.-(i-irHiM*-ir-HCMCMCMCMC^C^CMCMCMCMC0C0C0COC0C0C0C0COC0'^'^^'^'^'-^'^-^^'^iO»O»O»OiOiQ»O»O4O»OCOCOCD 


3090 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


M  ■♦^  rti  '^"   O  m  m 


ja  a>  o 


GO'-HOOOSiONt^'-i 


t— iOC^«iOOOOoo^*OOi 

'-'C0'^C^*Oi-('^^01?OiO'-<i-<iO0iC 


Olt-^iOfOCOO'— it^;oco 
Oil— lOOOOCOiOCOO 


<M'^ccco^':Dr-cot>-Oit— 


OOit^iOC^O^OOi-^C.    - _-     _     . 

coio-^r-<:oascooc'iooo^*ociGoa5cocot-»c4 

■^OS'-<-^t>-Tj<'^T<cv2^C^C^0SOsO5CCCSG0OiOi-" 


1-H         C^CNOOC^ 


coioc^Q0TpiM^:ocj3':ot^^i— 'CSX'-itNai-^t 


ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo 

OOOOOOOtOOOOOOOOOOOOiOOOOOOOOOOOO 
OOOOOOOC^-»00'OOOOOt^OO>OrO:^0'00'MOOOOOO 

ooo1-4'loooo■^^^^^^oou5"uf'cou^:co^l■-^ci":£5"TJ^-fJ'^o^ 


^         CO  (N  CO  iQ<N 


^    T-H  »0 


O         »-H  O^  CS         .-1  CO  CO  Tj-  .— I  i-t  lO  O         "^  CO  o  ». 


^-  ^  S  S  =^  X  2?  S,2      c^ 


C0O»Oh-»OG0'-i^C0'-HOCDC0:0-HC^C^i0Ot-»C^C0-H.-*C^^HC0C0-HF-(t>- 

■^OsOsCiCOC^i— it-^cOC^OOiGOr-t^OOi-— "iOr-(i— it-MC^O'MGiOO"^'— '40 

COCOCSCOC^^i-(^O^^C^'-t'^^(M,-HaiC^C^C^^C^C^CO(MC^^(N'^i-i 


fc^  "  o  ^  o  x"04  0C 

^^  g-w  3  c3  ca  *^' 


COCOfNOO— iC^CO-HOOOOXOOOfOCC>COCO-^C<lQO<N(N30COCOCOOOO 
'«J*yD^(»a0Q0rH''S<(N01^05C0OTr'^C0C0t^CSfM»0C0C0G0Ol>.OOO«:i 

rH  CD  o  t^  o  c^  so  »o  CO  <a3  cxi  io  OS  ci  CO -^  CO  CO  »o --H  ^^  CO  N  c4  CO  t 


COt^(MG0'^(N.-Hr^I>r 


*rH»-(OOt>.GOCqcO'«*iCOC^»r5COCC*OC^^rHTP'^00 


;  fl  ox;^ 


a*  w  f:^  ?* 


cocoooTfOiOcDOc^or-iooiOrposr^'O-rfOC^'— ico^::!'— ''oooo-^o 


'<J*t^iOG0T}Ht0iOO-^(Ma5^O^C000C0C0':O:Dt^O'; 


O  l-^  t'-  00  GO  <N 


COOiClCO-^OOCSGOOC^iO— 'COiOT^C^Ot^OiGO-^lr^r^t—  0  30r-OOSO 
CO  Tt<  Tj<  O  M  ^ --H  C^  O  ^  CS  CO  C^  CO  ^        <N  04  CO  CO  CO  CN  C^J  CN  lO  CO  CS  ^  CO  00  !N 


"S  o  a3  «  *  = 


coco^HOO«D'-'r^'Ot^t^r-^t^oc^'^oooooc*3ior^t^coa5aj'0030- 


rJ*CDr*OO^rJ-iOC^GO^CCOiQOCS'<T*050r^ 


•-HOOaic^ocoT}*- 


-O  ^  Ci  O  O  i 


■^IM^O»O^OC3C0CC:0=DO^»OOJ0^OCS 


cot^o^Oio03t^»ooot^oai'^'-fC^Oi'^050:i!DT}H-^-^t^rfQoo-*oO'-« 


«0  r-l  C^  -H  T).  -H 


(N  C^  rt  OJ 


(So--" 


■  a  " 


CO-^Ot^^Ol^CSCOC^JtDOiOOOCOt-^iO-^wOOO'' 


1  CO  Tf  I-»  O  t^  30  OS 


osGOcot^Oscsoot^iocOTj^osOioyDC^oscOTPOst^-^TjiTt'iooO'^t^'-Hr^^ 
lOcoTtltocdco-^-^osc^osoooscoodosoposcot^oscococ^oOosciciod 


CO  CO  C^  ^  ^  1-H  - 


<.-HWCSCMC^?^i-iC^MC0COi-ii-lr 


^*" 


oosaj-^cotM-rj<r^oococoio<Mt— ioocoocor^csoco-^r^eo^coijoo 

O— 'GOOt^C^COQOTT'COO^COiXi'— 'OOOOCOOSOCOC^C^'— ••OOrrOiCI^ 
. •oOTPX-^CCC^^^^'^OSCit-t^'^'— 'CSr^OOOO'— I 

-T'^iooTio  oTcfcs      iccooT 


tMOSOOCOOTTCOC^i 


CO  CD  CO  <N  ^  C 


o  o  (^ 
W  ft 


ot^'*io^O'^coc^c^oocor^tor-(^^Tt*csc^ost^i>.a>iCQO'-jcDcDGO 

CO(NOC^|i-'CO'-H  .-hOCOOOOOOS-— '•^OS'OCNC^CDOOCSC^OOC^'OOOOCO 


*CsCSTt<iO'-«00(N00CS^^^ 


"COCOOCOOOCOTPTt^OS-HOCOOSt 


CO  CO  CO  ■— >  ^  c^ 


--I -^  CO  TP  i-H  CS  t^  lO  1-H  CO  IM  00  ■*      OS  CO  rH    '<*' (N  CO 


OOsC^t^-— ".-HTfCOt^COi— '»OC^iOC^OOCO»OCD^HiOCOOsasiOCNiOOOOSC^ 
O00CO0SiO.-HC0t^C^t^t^CDi000OC0CDiCc0r^'^t-*0i0SC^C0-<J<-^OTrC0 

c^Tria>cocoa5C^-^co'^t^cocsc^t'--^oocsO'^ooc^c^'*o»OTfc»^co 


:z;82 


COC^O'-'COoOO-'t^'O'MOTfC^fNOSOsOOCDOOsOOOCOCOt^cOCSy^cOirO'-H 
■^OOcDOt^COO'*«COC^iOOOCOCOCOC^OOCOCDOOO^^ggcD«JOCOO^C3 
COiOOSiOCSOt^t--CD'^'^C^r^CO-^Tf<Tt«CD'-H-HCS<X)-»t'^OCDt^OOSOO-<*< 

CO  ^  C^r  OT  C<f  CO  W  00  »0  ?0  TfT  ■-sT  ^  CO -^ -^^  CD  lO  TjT  lO  ?o  O  O  1^ 

^ --H  c^  (N  1-H  io  N  c^  CO -->  50      ^  CO  CO      i-i  t^  c^  CO  i£3  ^  ■"•      '"' tr  "^ 


OOSCSiOOSOOtMcoOOC. ,     _- 

OOOMOS'-'fOCO"^— 'COOt^OOuoOOCOcOCOOt^ 
OfMOst^^'OOI^COrrO'-HOOO      ■  ^  ■ "■" ^ 


COCDt^-TfOt^cOcOOsiOOOCOOOOiOCSO 

COOt^i-HCOCDOsOOiOOOCDOS 

'OOOOOOOCOCO'-'COCOO'J't^OO 


2?5 


CO-^OOSh-OSOOCNOOOO-^fO 


r^osr>»Tt<cscst^Oh-co^'' 


lOiOiO-— 'COCO         COiO-^COi— 'OSOSCO         cOOOCOC^i— <•— •■^OSCO'^OOO 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOiOOOOOO 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOiOXiOOOO!>100000 
OOOOOOOCSOOOOCSOOt^OO0000^Oi0iO--yDOOOOO 

oc^c^o^oo~OTl^^Ccoo"o^^^u:^li^cDlccO'--^^^OcO"^''■^"■^'"os  rrcoo  o  o 

^  ^  CD  C^  IN  O  CS      CO  lO    CO    ^  C^  C^    C^  CO  CO  TT  f-t '-' r^  Tf    -^  CO  o  o 


5^ 


S-^io(or-ooasO-HC^cO'^^cDt^oooiOi-HCScorf<^^t--oogso^Nco 
C0CD<DCDCDCOt~«t^t->t^t^t^^-I>-t^t^OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCSOSOSOS 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3091 


i^  -^  Tj.  r-    I  o 


^      I  00  Oi  t^  CO 


Tt^c*^oo^^<rlTt'Ocouoxi^^cocoa>coTJ-^ooc»cot^'-^»cc^oc^cs■-Hooo^^ooocoO'^co•^c^^'^ 


p"  c^i  ^  -H  oj  '36  CO  — *  o  c-i  t--^  »o  i-^  >o  c^  o  ^  QO  ^  ■--  ^-^  CO  o  c^r  o  r^  .30  — '  Tj*  o  "^  o 


'-■<  '.»'  ^j-i  iju  "J  ■—"  I"-  ^'j  .—^  .•!  ^— ^  i~-  '-^j  ■— '  -"^  t_j  -^r  tjj  ■^  CO  "-H  fTJ  cv:i  ^o  Tt"  CD  on  CD  Js  in 


•^  CD  00  O  OS 


;oo<:ot--c^icstcocx)'^^OOoo»50iOTt<'rt<coot^o»g2aoocoorocou':)'r?c^csoicocoasc^30'^ 

•OiO'^t--cO'OOi"T"-^0'^^cSTt'r^--«400»OGCOO'— «iOcccoi.~''--icot-^ior^~i-r5co.-H 

IU^GOOOOCOtt— 'CMCD--«t^--*X)«:)a>CR-^QOCOX-^CO^CN(rO-HC^OX)O^^TMCOTt< 


COQOOr-t—  aiC^COCDQOCO'-'< 


.-.OiO-HCOOOCOCSOSC^'— 'CN|rHiOOl--COO-^0 


i--coo^o^cococoGO'**t^r-«2iooOTfcDoot^c^'-H-H':D*o  (n  o"co*"co"c^"  r-rfo*o"o" 


00000000000*000000000000 


o  o  o  o  o  o  o  f; 


ooooooooooc 

oooooooooo:., 

oooocnio:^OOocoocoi 


'Oooooooo; 


o  o  o  o  o 

O  O  O  O  O  tn 

o  >o  O'  o  o  j:^ 

!M  oj  ^  ^  -<*<  y 


cO'^'— 'O-— 'OC^^hcicoco       — cooo-^ioco; 


J£J^t2J£5S'^^95^''^'^^"^^f^'^050-Tfcoooo'oio 
ic^^ooc^o^-^oirtHco-Hioo-Hco      ■^a'c^-^oc^cqcocc 


oiQOC^^-.T^coocno>co»ooot^T:^'OI^^o-.GOcoaicoOTOoco^30^0'O^^S«cD^OiO^-I-HS^oc^Sc^ 


t;-GOcDCiOCO-^.X)QOtOCOO-HiO':t^OiQO-^» 


t--  30  *0  CS  00  C 


„^„^^^cso<-H-^o)co^s«c^-i«-^c:i=H-^co-H-N;.;^;i;c^=:;;i;c^?iSi^^5j^;5Sii'c^^5^a§^S^S^^S 


I'^OsOiOOOh-cOOO'^THOO 


■^co-— lOb-'-HcO'— icir-— <ooc^c^cscooooofOioa5Tt<ooco 

00OC^C000C0:O00Q0C0l:^X;OO-^»O"^CDiMC0OCNC0C0 

ioodiocooo-^'^t^t^co'cooi>^tD>-HcdTr"Ood^i^oicD 

COOOXJ-^-^CNoOCO— t-^COl--— <t-(i— it^---"  —  —  «■.^■.— 


1^ SS ^ 2«^  ^ ^c;;5« o ic  o Tt*r^ CD c^  00 CO osco (NO 


3  OS  Oi  UO  -^  : 

5  t^  -rfJ  lo  hJ  csi  cs  , 


coc^Jc^co^c^^(--c-^c^^^^-o^(^^CMO^!^^coc^^■<»''^c^lc^»co■^oo>tDco?5^ 

■"■  >— '  -—<  C30 


■^  M  O  -C  W  CO  I 

33  »0  CO  CO  C4  Tt<  C^*  Tj^  o"  O 


-r-oifcr^ooococoooo 


Oi-HOOC^tOOOOiiOcD':Di-o;Or-COXi 

Trr^t^cncN'X)Oc^c^cii-*o— '— "'rr      _.__.., 

r^i  5  ^  1{?  ?^  ^  ^  ^  '^  ^  ^'  "^  ^  -^'  00  oi  r^^  o  ^';  CO  — I  ^'  OM--^  -h"  cri  o  cc  ^-  ..^ .-  w-  --j^ 

WC0OJC^CN-^-5^C0CICSCN)Tt^^CS^CS|-tTr-^COCNlC^iO-.^0-.CS-^CoM^Ol-?^XicOO 


r--*ococo— <oooco':o 


^  LT  ^  r^  CO  00  >o  t-  — '  —  ■»  Oi  o  »  r>  -^  rr  cc  cc  .  -  .  ^  w.  .-w  .  -  w--  w  w  -J 
Cii-^o— '— '':r-Hcocnt^co.jS!NoocO'fj"r---HC^r^(M^i-,^t-,t:Cooo 

^;c:^;^?;j'L:::ni^5^^£:^'^9?'^2S'^^'^"^'^^'~''-^cocoi-: 


1  ■-  —•  1--  «ij  i'j  y,,j  1— I  JU  ■;_*  c^  t> 

coi^t'-Iioodr^cO'-'oi 

CSCOCOOTT'-'COC^Tf 


!£3r^i25^^'^'*^^'^"'^'^'^^^'^'^''^t^t^cDOoor^cot^OiCcocoo-HTt<osocoim'-^r^ 

OOCSCOQOGOOOCOCncOt-'OCOO-<N^OJrt'r^OOC^OiOOiO-t'^D0^5oSo§rO«'SoxSo^^^KS§C^^S^SSc^ 


■«^'-*t--as-*COCNCOC^CS- 


:  ^  O)  T^  CO  CD  - 


;  'fS  ^  ^  "^  '^  CC  ^  '*  ^  '^  '^  CD  '^  00  O  -^i  O  --^  CO  -D  ---*  »o 
^■«*_.n^*^^^_-A,,^(N|cSi0CDC0C^i0O"^'0t-rrCNCD 


c-^  ;o  33  '00  o  — >  X  o  o  ^  '-o  -^ 

CS'-'IOCSO— 'COCOOi     ' 

tO"*£5  ^"■^"^cp  cTrp'co'iO'wi  I^  00  »0 


ror-o-^o-^ouor^cDiOioc^ 


CO  ro  r>-  --H  t^  c^  -H  i 


OXCO  —  O-^OSOX— 'I^-^CDCOOO-^-^ 


CO  CO  lO  Tf*  O  I-  ^O  O  TJ<  -H  rKj 

o  — I  rj  c>  »o  c-^  ;o  33  X  o  — > 

r-csx_co_^-H_cs-H  locso --_co__cooiu5-H  c^:bc^ixxx^o-.^3>corpcocDd3C^jccoocNcoi-cscsxoxc^;-^io;=;f--o  - 

r  co"  lo  cd"  ro"  CO"  t-T  x'  x'  of  -f  ^  lo"  co*  -^'  co*  o*  co'  co*  tt  x*  oT o"  lo"  »o"  o"  c^'  x  co'  ^  co'  co'  r-'    *^ 


'^  X  O  — I  CO  C"3  X  O  C^  u 


O  OJ         (M  (M  •-» 


Cv)  _  — .  CO  ^ 


C»  CO  TP  ^   r^  CO 


■<  (M  — »  .-H  ,-t 


2fe 

(N  Cs" 


lo  ^  o  (M  r^  c 


;  X  Oi  1^  O  O  Oi  c 


J-fO-^OCOiO'C^^O-H 

'r--t-.iox-^ot^r- 


X>  X  CD  ^  t--  ^ 
O  X  — •  X  CO  ' 


^  O  ■"-"  X  O        '<*' CO  (N  - 


-H  lO  ^   ^ 


'  Ol  X  : 


'^S°Sr^S^'^:::1'^^S?'^~'    lOit^ooo5cooocD^^coco^-oic^It^coco*o 
Ili^iSt;^'^'^''^'— ''-^"^'~'     ''■O'-'CD-rtor-t^-^aj-Hco'-oh-.ocoooxr-^ 


;X'^CO';T't^XCOrOOi^)-Hr^CDt'-0 


^05         — ' 


'  c^  c<l  CO  CO  CD  X  Lo  CR  r--  to  CO 
iC^ixococcr^— ^oo-^co 

iC^cO^OiOCO^^OC^t^-^'— I 


CO  I^  OS  ^  c 


OSCDX^OCOOCOCDOSOOOiCOCOXXCSTtH'^CO'' 


)  -rt*  Oi  -rf  f>i  ^ 


:  Oi  »0  CO  CO  t^  CO  X  X  —  -  -  —   -,    -^  .-.-.„  . 
DC^iOCDCDC^triCOXOiOOiC^XCO-^'-H' 


i  C^  "O 
J  "O  X 


-  »0'-<X'>?i— 'lOOliOOlXt^^iOiOC^OiC 

2-i--ooiOioioic^xoioor^ioxr^'    —  """ 


CD--.        — .  -H 


I  iO  O  CO  -^  Tj< 
O-— '0iX05'^«^OCSiO?5blC0f0Oi^O'O0ix2S^ 


'^3;?3SP^'^^"^'^^^'^'^^^«^MI^'Or-inoXCO-^-HC003Xur3I--:r5Vi-Ht— )^r^cl-rT^f-^_.■r*4_. 
^OXXC^OuOCOt^■^'0^^-COOO— '— 'OS'OXX^^ixor-oc^'^SNl^^^SJSSSSSs^ 

'^.'^-^-^-^.'^.'^.''"l^/-^/^.'^.^.'^.'^  t-^o^ioSS^.fN^t^^o^rSx^^g^SwSSot^x 


CO  C^         (M  rr  — I 


-<    CO    Tt*    CO    '— «    1— I    TjH    ■ 


c^i  '^  r>. 


03  tc  CO  r^  lo  Tf  X 


X  CO  Oi  '^  Oi  —«  t^  I 


C00t--01-— (0>X— "rf*05r^ 


-gggsgjssFtg^gs  o  JO  g  ^-g  ?  15  5  2  g  s  g  s  s  ^'^'^'g  i:  ^"s^'s ;;  ^"S'S?  S  8  g  2  s 


oooocooo^ir 

0*"0*<N0*C^"0'i_  _. 

COTf-— 'O-— ■OC'*'— 'COiCCO 


OOOSOOXJOOOOOiOOO^OOOit 

o  o  ic  c-f  *o  CO  c5"  o  <■ 


IXOOOOOOiOXOcO' 


?22"— '^^^^^'^cr 


-O  O  O  CS  C^  03  Cvi  I 


JO— "C-lMX-t-O-^ 


iOOOOOOOiOO: 

,  ^^  S  5'  S  '^'  t2  '^'"  ^'  '^  '^"  ^  ^"  ^'  ^  ^  ^"  '-c*"  '^*"  i^"  o'  ":r  '^' 

'COO'OCM-iCO        TJ'C^)'*        OCMC^COC^        (N(M^-^^ 


■^lOCOt^XOiO— 'C^cO-*'iOcOt^XOSO 


SSSS§§§S§§|S§Sg§2222222i^22|g^g^ggSjgggS§g§'S§gg§g2§§5 


8::870— 35— PT  13 13 


3092 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


;  .•  «j  ffi'3  b>  -3 


I  c.S 


e§r- 


'■J  O  ■'-^  (D 


o  GO  fc  cc  TT  cc  oi  oi     I  r- CO  o    '  <d    <  •— i 


■  CC  -^  lO  -^  O  1-1 


,-i         ^  CO 


oo»^ocC'^'^roo»oi^coO'-H'— ifo-^tMOCJCiOir-fMOi'^-^'^cow 


l-^i— iI^-.-HOCS-^iO-^'^CCO'— '■^■' 


;.  GOOCOC^'^CliCTj' 


CS.-1  f-HC^CDTt'.-tiOiO'^^^O     I    »OOOC^C^iO'-''-*CCGO'-tCOCOCCCO 


tc<z:"Xtocc^rt^aii:Mi^t^'^0'-Hioocs(Mccc 


rcooccooto-^-^' 


-  -*  'T**  O  t--  t^  CO  CO 


cri—iccooicoooooo^oy^c-i— I' 


>»0C:O'^t^I'^OOGCG0CJ-—  OCCjOoCOGpO 


:iOiT}^020iocot^^'-' 


■*OCi»OOOC^t~'-«C^CO         COOsiO        OiCTJ'— '(--'--CCCOCDtPiO 


CO  (M  C^         i-l         '-1 


&  O  C3 


oocooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo 

000000000000000000000000000000*00 
O0ccOOOOOOOOOt--O'*OOO»0t^OO0SOOOOO»0"^CC'-« 

o  '  ~*  --*  o  CO  o  lo  o  o  to  o  o  CO  o  C'f  ^  o  CO  r-^  t  ^*  o  o  ■^*  o  o'  o'  c^^ 


■-  CI  CC  ^  'Tj^  CO  t--  lO  c 


H  CS  O         .-'  C 


CO  OC --«  <N  <N  CO  C^  (N '-' f-t  r-H         .-< 


o  c  5      - 


^  ^;  ^  03  "^ 


C0CSCCO'^t--CDO(MC^'-<C^'OC<IC0CC'-HCDt^rt<Tf<i-<Oai^0C^03e0OC0Q0O 
cO'^r^OOC^t-COcoC^^CO':DOi'-<OOOt-cOOiiO^OOGOOi'^Ol:^OC^t--iOCO 

c^coco*lOo6o5»OlOlOloo^-^05cooscoo6cco■^Tt^t'^•^cowsodc<^cD^^ 

CS^.— iC^i-H.--iCS.-ii:Nr-iC0C^rHC<li-HM^05<Ni--t»--iC^CNiC^C^r-ii0i--iT-tCSC0O 


,  .t^    O  -^  i-t 


GCO:<NOC3iOO(MiO[^iOb-CD^CN^r-COOCOCC05C^OiOOOaJOOOr^cOeO 
t^^.--.C^t~C<»>-<TpOCSIC0C^t--OCCOr0i-'C0i0OOr-.O'^00(NC<»>."^C0C001 


"COM-O-^CCCICCI-^OOOOCt— OiO^Ot- 


»ccC(N"^o:r-"^0'--c^r-'-''— 'Oi 


CC  —  "CCC^'MiOr-icO*OCOTft^r-iC^01<-'(NCOr-iO-<*''*C^C^^t^C<»i-'t^COCO 


co-^ocot^or-'— '■^oot^ocC'— iio*fio»oastDoOQOC^Oc^r 


^  l^  O  »0  O  Oi 


-rOCO^C<Ii— iCSOOCJ500'-'C^Oi06t-^00«OCOiO-^lr^'^0-^0(NOCOOCOiO 

on  u:;  to  ec  ^  ic  00  CO  f-I  i>^  <£>  crj  -h'  w  -rj^  cs"  ci  ?c  :c  o  cc  x"  CO  o  00  --*  oo  t^ 

<Nr-<^COC^C^CO^COr-i-rfcOC^COC*CC(NCS(Nr-.r-:«COCOIM(N01'-''-'CSt^CTi 


O— 'CO^C^^Oi»OC 


-cOOC^COOcOlNt^cO'^iOOOOCCC^OCO'-fO^JGOQO 


)t^oooooocnaioccr^c^"'-'C-Ji^-ooocctOr 


00  «0  !>•  CO  OS  CO  00 


'^^oto"ododoi^^ooO't}^os(^i(^^oooo•-^^tooo.--•'^'a::■cooo^-(NcooOlOOS':H 

>^i— t^I>C^OCt"-'-'"*}*iOiOtOOO(NCS'rt'C'lt^"^'-"i--t«r>COCO(N-*COC^.-'t^cOO 


fl  ojt:)  Cos 
7a     'r^'T!  i^ 


^^-coo:OilO■^c^■^'— 'OocCoooOiO'-'iOTpiococcoooosOitciooOr^t^t^c^ 


ir-r^,— .c^Tj*GCcoof.  COO 


>— 'C^OOO-— 'COOsOCIr-'OCDOOiCOO 


"^GCiOOcD'^0(NCOiOiOC^OOCsItOO^OOO'<J*rJ<(NOOC^OO'-'»0»OcO-<^tOtO 


jTPTt<CiC0OcDC0OC0'MCC-t**GCOC00iO00C^"^C0iO00O05C^;:H 


C0T-l^TPC^C^0iCiOt0O<MO'0(N00'-HOi0(MC0C 
C^i  C'i  O  CO  -t*^  --H  C^'  00  --^  00  "O  00  CD  t^  O  1^  GO  to  p  (N  c^i  c 


IM'-H^C^T-iC^CO    C^    CO 


t^OTp-^csioscsas»-<o 

lO  O  o"  ■^"  CD  tC  lO  to  I  ' 


<N(NC^'-t(N(N'-'i-iC^C^C^'-"-''* 


5,  >^ 


toio.— 'C^i'^oO'— icocor^ooGOOiTt-c^.— 'O-^co-':**'— ■oocD-^'j'or^M'cooo- 
o-^osTt^cor^Oi-— icoor-c^-^co-— •"Tj^ocor^'-i'^GO-^cDOoocDC'ii^oic^c^ 

O'-iC000t^'^J'i-'C0C0t^'-tC0CSCDI>C0tCC0'*O"^-^CSOtOC0C0<N(MC^-^.-i 


KM  ^  .-I  1— I  00  05 


■<  CO  «  .-*  CO -^  O    1-H  I>- 


OQOtOCOcD'-HCOt'.C^tocDcD 
'TtHOtOtoCOOOiOOOOtMCOCO 
CO^-^COrPO^cDCSCOtNtOOO 


C)^         i-i.-(t3h!0        Oi        Tt*C^ 


CDt^OS'-HCDOOCDCOOSOO'OOCOTt^ 
1— <(Mt--COOi'-^fOO>'-HCD'Ot^Oi— < 
totOC^tOOcD«-it^OS-^03C<IOOOO 

O  CO  r^co  i-HC^'r-T      c<fco2^  «o 


-cD'^oooi'^'«*<coi— ''-l^^^ooco^-coocococ<I---t(^IO^-=t*■-Hco^^rt<cooit^- 
^^cooo^*cDOlc^tooo•— lOi-^MoocD-rf-^^toootocoooi— 'C^jCQ-^c^t^fMi-Hoo 

1t>-C0CDC*5"t}«tO05'^CO^C^'-t'— iCOTftNOOOOCOtOt^'-tCOtOtOC^CSCSt-fCl 


i-<  CS   >-H   — tr-H 


p.  OOS 


OCM'^i— 'COtOTf<COC^h-tO-+'CDr-OCOCDC005'— <OOiCOtOCOO:>iOtOvCOr-C^' 
■^*O'-H|--.O'^CDC^O"^CD0iC0O— '!■•-- r^iOOlOtOOit^COOOtO'—'Olt^C^tcc^l 
■^CiO00C00lC^OOC^t-»O<-'05C0CCtOr-t00tOCDC'»"^'-'CDtO0:ir-^t^0iCD 


5CDC-*  t^C^CDOOOiOOOO-^C^-^tOfOCDr-tocOcO' 


.—.—,,—(         i-HCOtO         to        •— itO 


lOtOtOOitOCO-'J^CO'-HCD 


■<Tt<  l-t 


CDcDCO'^TMCOOiO'MO-^C^tocO'-iOOCOC^COeDtOC^r^C^OCOtOCOOI^'OC^ 


5  -^  O  I^  CO 


COOOCOCStMCDt^COi— 'r--— 'OCOOCDOtOOCDtOb- 


t^tOOiCOC^-^C^CDCDC^COt^Tf0060tO(:DOOcDcCI>-COCSOCOC^C'10GOTt*0 

CD' O  CO  CO  00  CD' M  CO  CO  OCT --H -^  OT  CO  CO  CO  O  "^  ■^^  O  O --- 

"^  — "  GO  C^  tc -^  to  to  00  TP  CO  b- i-H -^  Oi  to  CS   O  O  t- CO  "^  00  C^  tJ<  i-i  C^  C^  .-i -^ 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOtOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
I — ,, — ij — ^r^ — :  /—,  , — ,,■ — .^-.r-ji^^oOOtOO'OOOOOOOOOOOO^OtOO 
SOOOOOCOOOOtOCDOOOSOOOOOOQSCOtO 


OOCDOOOOOC 

o'o— ^*ocootoo'toio*tooio»ooi"tocrc 
coi— loot-HTfcot— toc^-— <cso      r-^GO-^ci 


•  r-oo-fOOOC<icDtOTj*coco 

)00^<NC^COC-lC^<'-«'-'C^         •-' 


^. . . :r--GOoO'-'OicO'<i^tc«3r^oooiO'-tcscO'<!jHioco 

■^Tt^'iJ^TfTlitOiOiOtotO'OO'OtOtOCOCDCDCDCOCDcDCOCDOl'^t^I^t^f^t^  0-- 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3093 


CC  GO  CC  OS  -^  <M 


(N   w  ,-1  --.  « 


CD  Ir^  CO  O  fO  05  (M 
00  CO  lO  CC  O  CO  t^ 


1-lOOCO       iOOCO(M       1  00  CN  CO  O       I  ^  (M  ^ 

<N  r^  t^    I  o  "*'  r-H     I  CO  cJ  cs  r^    i  ^-i  ^t^'  i-n 

.-1  Cm^      I -.f  1-H  O      11-1  (N  1-1  i-H      •        »-<  CN 


:  ;  IS 

tool     ■ 

1  1  1  -^* 

cooocoioiccO'^r^c^oai'0005cccocoooor-Tt<aiOc 


!■-  C^  CC  O  --^  C 


T-Hco>-'Ol00ao•--^csI-<^oo^Oi0^cOM'Csasl0^^orpc^"^^-•cocO"^ccol^^l^itccor-lococClC 


r-^c^oC'"*oo'Oco«D.-t'*C5ai^oco-t}i,-<oo 


)as"^»0'-'05i-H,-«csooco 


;"^Oii>.co      eocoo-^oscocicoc^-^ot-o 

(;0  ^  ■— '  CO         O  r-i  00  CO  GC  C^  00  T-H  O  CM  CO         CO 


^CCOCJt^CM(NO  —  COCO! 

J  t-^rHC^Tt^r-llMCD      [Ol 


o^*«:505CDcDOOlO^-■cooo^^ooo^-.■^1— <c<i:D^aico(N'-iiO'— ^CMc»ci^-•u^^->:tHcnocoo(^^cOM^oo■^CMO^  ^ 

OiCCSCMC0G'J'^OCDt^CMai00iCQt^00.-H00--HCD-=f'C0I^C0C0Tt-'-'CDCMiOC^'ft^t^-<t't^I:^00OCOl^»O'<**iO  00 

r-CDOCO"^         »— '»OOOCOI^O'^CMOrHrH01COi-*CO--i>-HOO'^r^OOrHI^Oi— <'f'00cCCMOC000O00t>'^^CSTroOC0O00t^       _ 


iCOcOCOr-CNCOr-ttN-rt'COiO 


lo  o  lo  u:>  ^  '^  o  - 


OJ  CO  OCi  CO  CO  c 


1— ICSrHr-lCCCOCStNCO  I— I.-HCO  OSt-C^r 

1-i  CSrf 


:  CM  CO  •«**  CO  CO  r 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOiOOOOO^OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOGCOOOOOO 

ooooooc^oooooooiooocMoooor-oooooooooooo'oooooooooooc:>ootooo 

OO"^Oi0OOC0OOOOOOt^0iO^O*O.--Of0OO00OOOO^:;OOOOO"3OO00OOOO00OOOC0O'^ 

o  locoo  cm'oo  ^cooo  o  co'o'o'od o'o5"o'-^'"^"o  CO  lo  ood loodo  ~ 


I  r-H  O  i-*  CO  00  CO  O         CM  T-1 


'CM         .-H  05  CM  CO  00  CM --(  CO  O  <— <  <— t  CO  O  Tt<  O  tC  •— 1 -^  C<l  O  *0  O  1— I -^  r-i         t- «— <  O  »^ 


oo^oocM.-icO'-H^oor-r 


^cofOcor-oO'-ioocMc^a5'^ccooco*ococM'^r-.-iOr 


JOICO'OCO'— 'Cir-Ci.— 'CMiOt-H 


cocoi-HcoooO'-'OOOoccocMasciC^'— "CM-— >ccc^i'-HCM005t^u:;c:ooTpt^05GOcoocOr-iai-^(^oocorji?^ 
■TJJ■^".-HcoajlOo"l0^cooi"^'as^^oi■^C5^-^0'-Hcor-H^o^Jloo6l^cdcdo 

»HCM4Ci-<r->i-(CMcOCM'-i'— ii-iO5CMi-iC0CM.-tCMCMTt<iOi-<CMi-ii-iCMCM'-HCMCDCM--iC^^i-li— iCMi-iCMi-i"^  iOr-4iOCMi— iC-lC^<-< 


CCCOi— 'lO^-i^l0'-^C0*^C0■^C0•^COCMOCO^-.C^CMC0^^lOCM■^t^^-O'^00l— tOiOlu^OCOUtp-— iCMOSOOOrHiOCMt^CO'— '^ 
CDOOrt^'^COi-t-'t'Ou^eO'^asCMCMCOTt^t^'^JHOiOO'-iC^ICOTt'U^t-^i— il--r-Ht~^I^r^t^OOOiCM.-HOCMCOfOu^ 


JOICOCM-— ^-^tOCD-^r^COOiiOTt^OiasOOi- 


Hi-HO'-'»0>OcOG00100iOOC^OO'^050001CDOOTr^O 
"t-COO;^C0CM0000*OCMi-(CO'-i'^Q0'-i'OCO--iCMCO'-(. 


r-i  i-H—i  CO         1-1 


"^O03C0OOCMa>O0iC0iOt^OCMO00'^C000'-i'-<'^rt*CM00O00C0CDC^'^e0C0CMC0C^'-H0100"*rti0000iOTt<t>-Oe0C0iO' 
00'*1-|'*C0Tt'C0:^»OO'<**c0l0lOC^CD^-O'<**»O0000C0O■^OWCM00^-^r*O00OOcD-«*^t^O■^O^-l';0»0O0iu0^ 

^^d^'^^i^^i^^^^^^K^iiS^ri^^^^^^'s^P^^'^ooooTjfocooosod^ 


r-i  CM  CO  CM  CM  .-I  CM  coco  T 


iCMi-iO'<*<C*^-<J<-<:J<i-(eOCMiOOi-<COi-iCM'<*<COCMi^.-iTj<rHCOrHCM-^i->C 


CDi-iOSCM.-<CO'<**C 


-coci-^osocooot— r^i 


OCOOOOiO-— (1— t00OC0"^C0CM'-H00t^'-<»0'^'-<TtHc0c0C 


-t^coooo-^oocooot 


iOC<IOT^iOOCOI^COCi"^OO^CiOrHcOCO-^00'-H.-HC^C^OiOCDCOOii-HOi— 't-•0C00^-TPC0O0:■*J*0&'-^OC0C005l>•00f0  Q 

ci^CM'CMC0l>•0i0iC0C0C^I^'£5CMt^■^^^O^^'-'0i^O1-^■^CM"^^^^OCM'wc0*u0cd•— lo^  fl 

^C0C0C0'*c0c0C0e0CMCOCMOCMTj*C0^CM00CM.-i0iCMu3CMiC00OC0CMr-.a:riH»O?^OTOicc0C^0SrH  *-* 

i—li— I                                                    »-H^                                             1— (^                               CMi— ii— iCOl— <CM                       1— »i— 1                                                                                      I— t  r-t 


t--'^Oi-iCOI:--l>— tCMt^OOOOt^OOiCOOr^CMitf^OOOiCOiOCMOOCMh-C-lCMOOOlOOCOCO'-ih- 


t^r-CMr-00"— '■^»0'— 'O 


CMOilC"«**CMTt^lOcM00•-l.— <CMCM-^O0O0CDt--C^li 


ji-fOosi-t^or^TiHOt^c 


COcOt^CDCM^'^CMOOOCOOOOiOCOcOt^.-HCO^OOCOtrOCOt^CMCOOOCO 


■<  to  00  t^  CM  C 


5  lo  00  CO  ^  '-'  t-  i: 


5  CO  CO  --^  CM' 


HCMO'TfOiCO-^.-tCSi-iOO' 


ccoocoC5iocO"^»0'^coait^CMcO'^"^cooioococO'Tf-c^ia5'-*050ct--.cO'-Hr^o^u^»ncoodco        ^o  o  od  odo  co  oo  co -rp'oi' 


CO  C'^   o 


1— <    CO    OO  »0    1—1 


1-1   CO  oa 


1-1  OiO'rt*  . 


^CMOOCOOOcOiOOlOCOCOcOi— (kOCO^OQGCl-— 'I 


<oc6^-co^-6o^O'^^oOTPOO^^d>.-HCDc6a5l00t^^c6o^^^co•^^^^SS 

■Tj*  ■^'  i^  oo'  •-<  00  1-"  cm'  -— I  »o  »o  -rt^'  CD  I--'  *o'  CO  r>-*  oi  ■^'  »o  r-4  o  co'  o6  co  ci  cm'  oo  aJ  o  cd  lo  co  o  cd  oo  co  o  oo'  C)  cm  cd'  ^'  >-''  c-i  o  cd  co  ic  oo'  co' 


,-<  ,-1   rH   ,-.   CM  CM   1-1   CO   .-*   rH   1-t  CO  C-l 


■4  CO   rH   .-H   .-.   CO 


t-^1-.'^      ^ 


eOCOOi— iCMC-1^0000>CD»00'— l■^C0O^^»0CMCD00O00CM0S»O■— <OCOUOOOcOOi0i'^O>Tt<OOCOOiiOiOCOCMt^r-iQOCOCSOO 

*ooooii— 'C50il-^aiOOOo>co^^cMc^I^cococMos^^oo>■--Tt*cM05CMOOiOOilo^^u^cM■^c^^aoco■^cDocDCMcoocoI^ 

00■^00OO»0G0t^^-CM^^00^-1Tt^CMC0C00iO1— •OoOCMCJl^-C^COiOUOCMCOCOCOOT'^i— I00O31— tcO^-CO^OCM05CMO^CMI>-CM 


CMrH         OSt^     ■    '^         COOOi-lt-         ^         i-l' 


CM  1-1 1— I  ■^  r-- CO  1-t  t^  CO  CD  00  Ci  CO  o      lo      oo      CO 


CO   l-H  .-I 


1-f         CM  CM 


C^I  r-t  i-«  CO         t-l         05  GO 


05T}HCOOSCOCMOCOiOCO.-lOi 
OOt-'CDiOOOOlOO-'fCO'— lOi 
t->00i0*O'<J'CM'*c0O'^'-«t^ 

i-T  CO^O  rH  CMlOr-T-^*" 


>or^osioo>— tasTt^c-icoi-H-rfi'^r-fOco-^oooosio 

-     , .  -  00  CM  CO  05  O  I^  CO -<t^  CM  Ol  CM  t^  *-      "  '       "■ 

iO00-^05CDI>-C001C1CM0i.-Hr-.c0-^i-<i— ( 


i-rrOCMr^-t^OOCMCOOlOI^CO-^CMOlCMr-.         i-HCO-^h-COCOCDrr* 


>  '^  Tt<  CJ  CM  GO 


COOcOrHOOcO^CO  lO  CO  Oi        CO        •^"cd" 


1-1         .-ICM 


"  CD  O 

I  O  CM* 
■  coco 


'*r^cM<^OlOuo^cOlOcDO^•^^-«^-.osolcoco1-^•— leocMoocor-ooO'^'^CMoooi'— <iocooo-^"^ioiooa5'-< 

aCOCOOCRt^CO-^OiOitOOJOOr^GOi— i"^OiOTj<|>.c0i-H0l"rf't-^l>.CDC000CMtO00C^C0000000iO'^C0Tprj^ 
5CMlOCOCOTt^CO^-t^^01-lCOCMCMOU^cOTJ^CM^^cOCOlOCM'<tt-Cf5t^'*J^CMcOCM■^cOCO■^OOCOOCOlOlO^ 


^      CM  T 


CO    ^  CM    CO    CO 


CO  CM  1-1 '«**  CO   1-1    CM    lO  CO 


OCMOCMOO>CMOlC3CD>(t^COI^g?a>•^^-•OSOiOlOrHlOOCMOit^COCM>000^-■»^CMlOu:5COOCO^OiTf^cOOOCM■^^OOOC^ 


iOr-»Or--CMI~-COCTiOOOO»--'— <iCOt--Oi-<CSCMOOiOCO 


■^"^COCMOt— "^OOGOi— t-^OiiOOl'— 'CSiO^Oi 


OiOi'^oocMcDOiior^c^i'— iioco-^'^»oooooir--^asC5cococot^"^r-.— i-r+^oiiCi— tt-  ix  cm'"oo'"co'co*"«o  ocM^oTo  orco'''^'"c 

1— t  -rPCO         CD         C0m3^h»0         oo  COi— '•—*  -^CMi-Hr---^-""--^  —      ■-■         -^         —  -- 


3  05  CM  .-H  CM 


O  00        1-1 


■^cDC0Tt<cDCMC0OCMi0CMc0OC0C0TPCMTt<00C^10ir^CMC0C"105iJ^mcD'-Ht'.L 


CDCM-^OiOOOcOt-^CDO'-tt-^COOCOOCDrJ^CDCMTt'OOCMOiCO'' 


OOt^l^OOOCOC^lCMi-iiOOOOOOOi 


05-^CMt--CDCDC0OCDC0'— ICDOOSCOCO-^.— ICO"^CO»-I0010CM 


i-HC^1I---Oc0C0CM-^»0O»0OiCrf*0iOOO 


HCMOiOOsr-'— 'OOOO-^CMCOOOCOCOOCMCOOOOCOOCM 


lC'^^--oo^^oolOcocM^*"^coo5■— iCM.-tcoOQOoooO'^^coi— '•-'cocDcO'— ^oo^-o■^l-^lO.-H^-.csaiQO^^ 

■— t  CO    CO  CM -^  t^  1— I  CO  t- Tt<  CO    00  CM  I-*  00  to  CO  CM    -^  CO  CO  t^  03 -^  O  CO  CO  --H  CO  CO  "^ -^  O  0>  »0  CD  CM  Cs  CD  »0 
»-«      CM  1-1    CM   r-*  CM    CO    1-1  CO        t^      CO  I— (  1— I -Tt^  CM        i-t    in  i— i        CO    1—1 


D  O  lO  »0  .-»  t^  - 


25522525QS5QQ5'^'^'^'^000OOOOOOO0O0OC5OOOO00O00OOO0OOOOO  -^ 

^S2SSSSSPSSSSS^SS^S'5'=^2i2  22SS'="=^^'=^'='^oooooooooooooooiooio  -*± 

oo-rt^oiooooi^ooooor-asO'oo'O'-Hocooooooooo'OoocpooioooajOooooooocoooD  fl 

O  lO  CO  O  C^*0  ©"lO  CO  O  ^""o'co'o  of  00  O  oro"-^''^o'"'--*'"iO  O"^  r1 


H  O  i-i  Ol  GO  CO  O 


i-tCMCOCOCMi-iOOi— ii-iCOOCMOiOi-t'^CMOOO'' 


t^000iO^CMC0■^^OC0l^0005O1-^CMC0■«^OeD^-.000JO'— iCMCO"rf^»OCDt--.OOOiO'— <ClCO'Tt*iOCDt>.OCCiO'— 'CICO-^ 

t^  b- r>- oooooooo  GO  00  00  GO  0000CJ5O5  Oi  Oi  05  ooi  Oi  oi  OiO  o  o  o  oo  o  o  oo ^^ ^^ - 


■1  C^J  CM  CM  CI  CM  D  CM  CM  C^  CI  CM  C 


)  CM  CM  CM  CM  CI  CI  CM  CM  CM  CM  CM  CM  CI  CM 


3094 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


i  c,-^  Co... 


U  '*^   W    —  -^    C3 


I   t-H         1 

iCO 

o> 

"O 

'  t^        1 

^o 

31      ' 

1  M 

O  -H 

lO      1 

1  OS 

00      1 

.-I  ill" 


^  m  o  CO  <M  t 


j^r,  fiooocico-^^OF-tGOOi^'-'^os'cascoc^.-HQOO 


(MGO(N<£)GO'-H01CDCCGOCC(NcOCCt^CMOCO»OOt^CO«3000r^(N'-i 
Oi  ^^  O  '"O  ■^'  C^*  CC  O  ^  C^  C^  00  ■-*  00  Oi  CO  --H  *o  CO  »o  TjJ  C^"  ^  ^  CD  Tt<  »o  o 

CO      cooicoosococooico.— I— ic^cj'-'.~i(MU3toco       CI— (       ■^i--;o 

C^l  i-H   O  ■— I  i-H  i-H  »0  CS 


■     .  o  o  CO  r--  (^  .—  ' 


OQOOTrcs— 'Tft^r-rooicocccO'— '^::!:c_3C)0". 

cn>tocDr-*oc4cotOC^cj:'— ••— «u^oooiC'liO'-«cocDr-r'-M-;aoai'— 1<00 

^ocTc«cftCD<:oc^"cotc'o^lOc^■^d^*lOlr5"^-^^o^-^■-'"o^      -nr^c 


^        CM -— ■  CO  to        OOCO'-ICO 


-H  — 'CO-^ 


OOOr-OOOOOOOOOOOCMOOOOOOOOOOOO 

10000:000000000000:000000000000 

-—tOOCJOOO^OOOOOOOO-fO— 'OOOOOO^OOO 


•OlOcCOO'OOOtOOOXOOcO-^' 


I  10  o  o  o  »o  o  o 


OCJ— 'iC»0    •— 'COOiOd-— ■*C'— 'I-COO^^CMiO( 


CMOO'^COTf*01>.C1001COI--04CO'^COI^OCOCOCOCOO»Ot^CO*0 

03i^t^mi--i>-ocor->oot--oxcMoooicoiocoi>-oot-^citcocst^ 

^'  fC  ■— *  T}<"  10  C^i  uo  co"  O  CO  --H  .-I  10  ^'  C<I  Oi  CM  06  -^  I--^  C)  CD  i-J  ^  00  CM  CO  o 
-hCMC^-iCMCMCICOCM--",— i,-tCM.-"T-.    ,-.    ^^^    ^^w.-.    —1 


00t--Tt<C0'*00aic0t^Ci'-<^Ot--.CMXO00.-Hi-HTrCMCMc0C0OC0»O 

r^ooco-^0'-ioc>t^coooo»ooiOiaji>--^*<t^oot^cMCJcoi:^ioi-HOi 
O  Cft  06  o  '^*  00  o'  06  oi  06  ^*  o  to  CO  --'  CO  1^5  t^"  oi  co'  CO  r^  10  — ^'  rd  CO  ci  CO 

C4-<^C0CMC0iO00Ci)O'-*Q0C0-^C0CS-rCM'— i'OtOiO'-''-'»OCMCMtOCO 


coooor-ai'-''-'CMOoooast-ai"Tfr-'-<t^a>-^oo'^cCTt<>0"^ 

00CD0iOOOOOCI^OCMCM»OCft00'-«aiCM'O-^01t0Ot^00C0r^ 

to"  O  -t-  O'  r^  oi  O  Oi  Cli  CO  CO  CO  cm'  C-i  CM*  O  Tp'  20  CD  O  ^  t^  CM  -^  o'  CM  00  ^ 
.-iCN'M--^COCMCltOCOCM^wfO^^    .-<    >— 'CM^    ^^^rH    i-H 


^  <u  ^  o';:^;  o 


o  ^--  ' 


ij  c  e.  ^  , 


OO'^rtocotooi'— <tor-'ffcicotoooait--otot--CMa5CDt^oo-^ 

■-H"-:t<CO.— lOOOOt^C^lCOiOOCO'-J^CMOCOiOO'— '-— <CO— 'OCMO*^CO 
Ci  CO  •^*  OJ  CM  lO  C^  O  O  ^^  —  CO  t^  — <  CO  t-^  t--^  od  t-^  CD  t^  00  CO  06  to  tC  CO  o 

o»---.  rfCMT}-ooc'io-*ascojO^CMTj<cM'-«ocotO'— "— <r-~c^cMroTr 

CM    CN  r^    ,-.    ^  .-I  ^  ^ 


lOOoococDoocDi'-'^oor-cotor-h-ocoaiOcotooocDootocococo 


tO-^-^CMCM-— lOtOCOiOOOt 


>-«r-aoooooc^CMc 


lO  CJ  t-  to  CO 


iOCMOOtOOil-^CO^COCOOiOCDOOOOOOO 


■3.^  '^    - 


Ph  c 


OC<»-<*'CMCMCDa5tOt^t— COTj«'^COOOr^tOOOCiCMOOCl'— lOOCMOO 

OO00--iCM'-itO'<*'00CDC0tOC00000t0Tj*01Q0'-«OOa>i-HOO03C0 

O  CD  CM  oi  CM  CO  CO  CO  -^*  O*  O  •— <  CM  C5  tc  O  CO  to'  O  ■^  '^D*  CD  to  to  O  CD  O  06 


I—*         COCM'—'^CM-- •■— ■--»CMtO 


-H  !£) 


^C■.  lOOt-OCOOOOtOOOCOOO— •O-^OOCMOOOTf— iTj<-<J<iOCO00 


..O^OO^tO^-^CDt^.       . 

CM  CM  GO  CD  rr  t-^  o)  '<*'  c-1  CO  00  en  O  CI 


'— ■C*)aOI^OCMOCMOiO-<*<t 


•  O  CO  CM  O  00  - 


I  O  CM  CO  CO  CO 


C^  O  ^  ■*  '-'  C-i 


t-"^CMt--OOI^t^COiO"^'-HO 

CMiO"<:t*-HiO00C?ld^>-"3O00 
^/^l>-C^COt^-^000  0*CMO'0 

cm"        oTcO         COOOCOCMi-T^ 


»0  00»OCOcOOiCMCOcOCO'-'t^COOO-^OlCMOOOO-HQOTt<.-H^--*1<iO'-li-i 
•JLCOOCCMOOcOtOOCO-— ■tO-H'^— «^i— ir-.-^iOOCMCTilr^'^t^OOtO 


Z2Z 


jr-oooiotooooci 


r^CMcOCOCMt^CMOi'-tCn«3 


CMOOOaOOOOlM--f'^Ot—  cOCD"^OOaiOOTt*-HCOO-^tOcOCOtOOSCO 
^OOCMtOtOOr-O  —  t—  OICO-— •OlOiCOCO'-H.-HOOt—  OOCOOCMCOCM 

"Tt^*"  ■^  1--^  ^^  C^r  O  CD  O  cm"  CM  »0  CD  oT  "^  CD  CO  t^  TjT  oT  ■^^  5D"  co"  Tj*"  O^ 
«&CO-— 'CMClCOCMTp^  -"^CM  CO        I-H         r^  CDCM 

CM  i-"  »-( 


tOOCDTf-^tiOCM-^COcOOtOCO-^OOCMTf^OSt^OO'^CMt^CMCDOOCD 


cooocc'^r^r-toooiooo— •r-ooosor-oor^'-HO' 
" -~-      -i^^oi'-oooooair-cocM'— lOst^cDoc 


J  CM  r>-co  Tt< 


-CO-—iOOOlO"*  —  tOOt^OCMCOl 


itotoaso30ocMoooa>o 


l-— '•O'^tOcDCMOOOOS'OCMCMcOtOt^astO'OCDiOOOcor-CM-^ai-*** 


0000000000000000000000000000 

0000000000000000000000000000 

OtOOOC»0OtOOOOOOOOOOOOCOCCOOOO^OOO 


t^  O  O  O  O  'O  o  o  to  o  o  c 


00  CM  GC  T-H 


;cO'— ■'— itooocDtooo 


'-tCOOOCM'-^'Oi-Ht-COO'- 


OOOiO'-'CMCO^tCCDr-COOSO-^CMCO^tOCDt^OOOJO'— tCMCOTPiO 
?5CMCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCO'^'*''*^'^'^'^'^-^'*tOtOtOiOtOtO 
CMCMClC-JCMCMCMCMCMClOC-lCMCICiCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCM 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3095 


Tf    (XO^■^05000'— 'OC^^'^c^'XiOi'-HosocTt<cooccr-cc-rpo-'t'ooc^oiaiGOt-.'--'-rt'ioot--oO"*cooi 


03  ;Q 
©  P 

03  3 


CC     (M.-'.-H-tfDOOC 


j^co(^<QOroc5<:0'X>0005coCNic 


5  CN  •-'  O  CO  I-^  ' 


■'C^ror--fMr^ooo— 'Qoc 


:C0C^CCO00CMC0OCIit-C^t^OC0CD 


O     (MOC^OO'-HOO^^OOOOOOO^tMO'N— 'O^^OOOOC-JO^OO^- 


CD     CSfO'Ou^-^OOOOCXtOOOOX)*0-^CCt 


iO'0'0'0>OiO»0»CiO»0'0»0'OiO»C>'t«OOiOiO*0*Ci 


•  (M  O  O  O  C^  C^ 


r^  i^  r--  r^  t-  ! 


•  1^  r>-  r-  i~-  I-  t 


O-J       CO  i-H  ^ 


MjH 


m  °  3  ° 


"i-i  i^ 


R  C 


o  o: 
>  o: 


5  s^  c 


'*  S  =3    -T3    •''^    ^w  <u  c; 


J=  03' 


C'^ 


c^ 


ap 


o  is 


■a  g 

22  S"** -1:5. 
S)  s  o  £  " 

9?  ^  a*  c  o^'i 
•t:x: jq  ax: 


3  :c  o  '■'- 


aj^  t;' 


'   3 

m5  2; 


oo££ 

3^  n  C  ^  CJ  O' 
!S  "=^  "---^ 

;§  o  „^<'- 

'^  0.3 CO  t^-c 
•  -r;  ;<  — !  ,^  0)  i_ 

)«  o 


JO  ' 


I  ce  a 

i  X  Cm  3  ^ 
5  3E^  c  P 


3  0^0 


Ml  J:* 


^■C.5'0  g-C^B  C3J3  ®  o  ®  g.-t; 


"^CJ     -^     ^     O 

w  ^  "g .-  _ti,^a  12  '^ 
n'SS       icCS  3 


E  hi 

C3t-i 


■XOiO  —  C^r5-^»OC;t-'QOCiQ'-HClrO-^iOOr--aOOiO'— 'MCC-^^CDt-OOOlO—'C^CO'^'CiOt^ 


jtO'OOiOtOiOiO'OC 


SCOcDXiCOOOtO^t 


1^  t-  r-  I--  r-  I 


-OCCCOOQOOOOOCOC 


OOO-— 'C0C^t^Ci'O^-«!j' .     .-. -.-         __.  _,^^.-_.  .. -^.-^ 

^•-'-H:ot"--rt<cD:oo--'COi--oocO':ooocoo-^--HOOir--coCi050'rt^cc:oioiO'XCS'— <ooQOL.  .     _. 

O^H.?^— I— iC^C^C^l'-H'MO— '-^MOCCCC'-'O— 'COOOOOO  —  0000— 'O-^CJ-—  — 'O^-OO— 'OC- 


_    .     - _"^  Cj-:)  to-— ■r-..—ioot--0'ai ':t"ccO'-'t--o  ■,--:)  —  t-C505'-<ior--o-^0C'rCNco 

(o:oo--'COi--oocO':ooocoo-^--HOOir--coCi050'rt^cc:oioiO'XCS'— •oOQO'Oi'-ot-oc 


- ..-.-.-.-.-.-.-,.    t^  r^  t^  I--  t    .    .    . 

joxJO'^-HcotcocoO'-''—— icc--ccy:Dcscoc^cc»or-- 


•— "— 'rOCOtOiM-^C^         C^(M^-^(MC4»OiO'.N 


'  --H  Tjl  cC  C^  (M  CM  1— " 


__z' 

^  ca  o  '-'  o  o 


oZ  n  c3j=  g    -5'''^  n-a^- 


X2    Cd 


OPh 


tH'^fe'^S-"-"-tfc>Tr'J^.«-^03c3,^_        -^       ^ , 


___ ,,_  3-^-2  .^  S  a   .  S  S  «■  ;  g-s  SJ2  £ij  o-c.^  S  SS2.SS 

JM<5MC^ofe^M,2;oowo:z;ooOa30apL,2o:z;mmooai<;l2;-«i;z;oWfei?coCOOO(i, 


Q,  be 


■3  3 

a  3^ 
fa**  % 


03  O 


°  a° 

Q  3O 

<  aSj2 


■- ' »_  s  3 

^;  S-«  3 


-J  3  ^  J  a;  ^-,  ^  -^ 


R  S  3  S  c ;: 


^a-xm: 


■3^3 

3.  o  '3 

■3  g  3  ^  '^ 
1    •  ^  iJ^a) 


e  °«    3  rii    Ml  O  , 


jf'  S  3  ^  3  g  a)  1 


S 
•^^t 


%^. 


=      r^  ^ 


Sgo  =f'^!3. 

a  ►5  >-  n  o 
^^  _  =3  ^  ;>.':- 
=^  O  3  3  £iS 


n-^^u-^^  3.^  3'-^  Ui 


3iJ 


aU  a  3 


J  3  3  u 
;  Is  «  r^ 


o 


>^ 


='-s- 


fci   aJ   K-»  O)   Oi   C3 

.2j3  3  3x:  >v 


x:  t.  o   .-c  "^^- 


3  O  M  ^  1-4  E 


I  P  S  cs  ' 
1  cS  2-  '^  ' 
'►JO; 


3.3^— ji:  «j3 

^  f!-,  S  » -*  53 

a3^^^co-3)§ 

-  3  "^  ="^-^ 

■  _'3  3  x:'  ^  2  ^ 


^HC^r»5'*'*OEOt^00030-HMCO^^Ot^Q03:0'-'C^CO-^i 


-  QO  05  O  ^  ^1 


3i  O  -H  C^  CO  ■* 


iCSCSC^,SCSC^CMCSC^fMrOCOCOMfOrCCOCOCCrO'^-*'«J<TP-:t' 


3096 


MUNITIOISrS    INDUSTRY 


— <aC'M— >^OTt<-^-^— to— ' 

t^  r-  in  t^  r--  t-  r-  t- 

CO  CO  CI  CS  (M  -^  CO  ^ 


)cc>:0"rpc^cscOTroocooiC^io»0'— <cioo»o 


icoO'^^-^j^'MccoccC'io': 


oio^o-^cicscorroocooi 


^  ^  o 

-rr  '^  tfZ 

o  o  o 
iC  »o  *o 
t-  t^  t- 


iti 


O^       1 

^  0> 


O 


w.s  ^^' 


ajj-i  o 


'r-  o  '^  <  o  _r  .  y  ->  'T^  ';r^.  tx  fc- 


O 


q  fi^  CO  Z  pi  ^j  o  p;  M  ^,  n  Hh  Ph  >^  2; 


g'SS'^ 


3oS<j 


;^  o-a 
117'    ."o  a 

a"  3  J,-''. 
S  o  c  -^ 


-So 


biX2  ^  « 

3  B""  a 

t,   5S  3  C3 


m"  '-"  .2 

a  03^ 
°§| 

Oi  o   ^ 


.30 
, »  2 

o  a  c- 

055 
=3S-S 

CS  CO  -t*'  O  CO  t 


o 

"3.73 

31J0 


>-aS2^o.S 

a  <33  aj  ^       3 

gaS.g«£fij^ 

25  S-^-S  =?^Si 


o  o 
00 


S  :-gs.aS 

o  c3  a  t,-— 
"30goC5§ 

ba^§^^ 
2  >>«3'3 


0-1  ^T^  2 
-  ^  o  r3  0 


2w 


3^:S 


H  ,  ,    0^   a   rj   O   C3 

^i^c  p  a  d  5 


a  ^  a>  a  -IT, -3  o 


a^3  a-t~ 

)  -i  13  >>  w  ■fl  S  5 

"  S  >>  a  a 


^  ^  a>  a>  Q> 


a  a  b 
o  «c: 
•a  M-a 
a  o  - 


o  ao 
■95  2  « 

^  ai'3'^ 
ID  S  tncd 
^  £  3     ■ 


'fed  ar"?' 
'  M  o^  ^^  :d 


»30 
tisi 

o5g=30 


;§ 


S  a  fe  ^• 

O"   fcJ3M 
>-3-0  S 

O   a   Qj  a;, 


o  a  p.o  o-^*^  ■ 
:g2feO§'J^° 
«S0.2-2o-g^ 


.M  aj-3 
3g^  ^ 


^^  —  a  ^  c_ 
•i  c8«'a  a -3 

ra  iH  ^  CD  p   - 


-OS 

:q£2k.|| 
i)  ^  rt  GJ  £  ,^J  S 

_  .  .     ,       -    _  _      ^i  -tji  CD  1-^  ci  CO  -H^  10  O  r^'  QO*  oi  O  ^'  im'  CO  -rt^*  10*  CD  I>)  00  Oi  o" '-'  C^'  CO  Tf** 
)00CO  ■X':<:i  30  O)  00 'XI  :Z)Ci  05  CiO)  01  CTiTOOiO^i'Cn  0000000000— '.-..-Hw^ 


)  O  —*  CI  CO  Tp  "O  o  r 


'(^^r^^':^Il^^cN(^)(^^r^l^^^c^l^^(^^'^^c^(^^ 


O'S.t;'-' 
3-3  >>^ 

oo^:z 


a-3_;    . 
a—  03 


^5-0 


O 

T3  a  a 


a  a 
a  a 

■af2i^> 


;3  «  c3  3  5 .2 

g  a  a  >  a"' 


^gfLi; 


X3  q; 


3  S  «  « 


g3o&a^^'^"-2a:a3->.S-?^£s;>J«-2"^.H.2s 
Oil^oi;J^:coMOPL,^^l5«o2.xOWO0HCMMOOPH 


:^a2  '"'^ 

7    ,  -2  5  3  " 
x5  -a  =3   •  o 


I  o  o 

500 


^rs.s^.js'ijs 


^<<?    .  a  o 

>  •-'  .    -So 


1'-'  -  » 
00>;.d-5;g-g 
|||&a.S^ 

~^^,  pg  a 


^fj 


■go 

CO  <B 


O 


O 


O  a  o 
bocs 


(W  ^         y   *-•   ^   hri  ^ 

£«-30.offl-£?o 
cu  .J  S  _  fe  _  's  . 

^        —  C5<>^  a>   ^-^ 
—   ID   "         ^  K     "^^  °3  „ 


:® 


^Wr^e'i<wo2;^PHr^52 


■a  a^.S-a 


oooio— *cscoTt**oot^ooi: 


OOJOOJOlJJOSOiOiOscnosciOOOOOOOOOO- 


d5>>do^^&o-32j3  53ScS;^2^§  ; 
lo^^oo  ^^  £  .^§:§^-g2  l^^|2§  s 

2-iS-::  St::  a^?^-<  fe-2  S  goJ^  a-g^  2"^.  2 
..a,^EodcaJ5jaoS-aoJ3.a=^.t;.:i--    -oi 

-^^?i<10l-)WE^&H«^:^t3P5^Hafl^CL,G2^« 
oj  o  ^  c^'  CO  "**  10  CD  t>^  00*  05  o  •-»  (m'  CO  T*.'  10  CO  r^  :»'  ^i 


*»OCDt--0005O^-'C^C0"*iOCDt^Q005O'-»(MC0TfiOC0r^:»3iO 


I  C^  C^»  CI  c^  c 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3097 


r^Tt<'-HO(N'<*4c^ior^'-<o-^OiiocDC<»iOtO'^0'— 'OQO'-HtoooooocS'-HOicn"5oooco?o«30sr^ 


u^cocjTt^roor^-^'Oiocooc 


i:OOC:iO-Ht--t^».OOCO(M(NC^COOiiOCCOOt 


OOC-^'-Hr-iOO'-'— icvJOOO-— '0C-)O'-<0O0000O0O00000C^<Mt--CS000 


COCS--H    ^^oo^<Mr.-:^.-.C^cQCv| 


.  lO  t"-  b-  t--  i>.  r^  t^  t^  i^  f^  r-  w  i^  t 


;iOi0'O>O»Oi0»CiO'O'- 


)  lO  lO  lO  »o  »o 


-I  iM  CO   C-)  -?t*  CO  tM   CO  o  io  c-i  re  -M  —'  CO  c^  T*< .-(  CO  cs  :o  CI 


-■"§.'§.§'•30  So  So  So 

*-"  -73  i-rj  O    C      3 


&"S 


o    -'-^ 


tn=:0;--J3J3O00 


£5tS-wSs3>a)3'p"!:;.2S>M-a.ri.i;>3x3S:oea>'~'.2i-;"i 
5  g  So  ^.-5  =ij'o  o  SS-g  §-2  S^.y  =  3  S.Sa  gS  22  S-a  ■.! 


,o 

6  <B  O 

O  OO 
a  a  as 


"J       So  ■ 


o  C  S 


p  o 

C'-  c 
_  ©CO 
5  2^  (^  i. 


O  3,3 


'^C 


5ga 


C  3^ 


*fc3  °  ; 


q  -o  o  ^  >.,i; 

3  ^'.  W  ^  aj  'C  cs  o  O ' 

3GQ,aj^32-g>tD 


S"3a 


S2^ 


35-5  ^yc 


O  3  9  h 


O 

"  is  m 


ui_i  a>^_( 


'IS 


«  C.2  Us 


5°S§ 


o£; 


S  ;z!  J2  c3  o  -Si'  3  .a 


•S-S' 

^  "-eg 

1:-a  ox; 
2  ^'a  ^ 

-iT;  g  c3  0) 
CtaOE-i 


lo  o  r^  00  Oi  o  t-H  '; 

rH   ^  — .  --.  -H  C-^  M  C-l  ^  t't  r 


.  lO  O  t^  CO  35  O  — I  (M  tr'O  Tj.  ^O  O  I 


JOSO^CNCO^r'Oc 


I  .-o  7C  ro  r'j  CO  CO  Tf  Tj.  -+.  rj-  • 


•  GCCiO.—  ClOOTj^iO 


i  IM  n  CI  C-l  C^  C^  Ol  C-1  C^l  CS  C^  Ol  CI  fM  C^  C<1  d  CS  C^  (M  C-1  (M  C^J  (M  -N  C<1  (M  C^ 


C)  O  =  O  .  - 
"-•0  'O  lO  lO  lO 

'^  '-?  Ir^  03  —.->:)  --^  CI  CI  ^  ^ 

lO  uo  .  —      .      . 


->>2 


03 -< 


^  bji>2'3  a"'  ■'-' 

-^  ^    tc   Co.'    ■ 


■  ;>^ 
^  ;  . 


n!  d  O 


O^ 
_   .  .  O  C3 


t^  fc  «   -  ^-  a   -^  &t.2  o  c  ®  _'    '^ 

„-9o>^£goSw«« 
g  g,2^-S^  RS.g"^*s  ^  &-2p^  >  ":- °^'-S  a  >'i^  S  ai-5  fe-^-^>>a—  S^ 
<3  c  >,.-  2Soo3'oQ,95oaj£S— ..2.ti'3£'o3SJ2i3.?^^'®OQ.'*i^'*'^S 
<<RK:lmPL^p^nooDmwpHpq;z;2;p^aoa^Qmap5C)O§^tIlm:z;0HCQQWQQM 


O    CJ 


2   tC  O)  to 

5.SP..S 
■S  a.a-^'- 

^  S2  3 


<•  3 


^   k"^  ^ 

O3O 

'^  m  3 
So  ° 

i:  a  a 

OS  o 


o  S  C 

■3  "  r 

>  M  ^ 

==.  £  o) 


O  ° 


a>.0 
3ii  ^ 

mO^  0.3 


lu^% 


-3  S«3 

n  3s 


■  c3  £   .  a  '/3  ^  ^ 

'-■a'^cF—o 
•  o  '.«   ■  c  t-sa4 

J3S  asx!  5  u,    . 


o=y 

-^  ,^   3  <B   03 

^  O  ^o  ,g  ig 
— ."o 

«  c3  a 

■  §  " 


515 

aO  -■ 

be  t.  a 
•-^  g  9 

i-HTicoTficcoh-Gcaio-HCsco-n^icob-xi^O'— 'C^:.    .     ,_,     .    , , 

cococococococococo-^"^-^Tt'Tr-^T*'"rj<-f<T#ioioiOiotQLc»oioicioo'Ci:o:D^yD:o 


°-« 


•g  ■^.  fe  o  a 
3   --a^s 


ts  a 

|b 

o  a 
53 

i^^  o 

•2 -2  a 

O  OS 
s^  o 


O 

...     I  o  ~ 
bio 

^  o&q  bcjaHbj^ 


.  OC  C.  O  -^  C^  CO  ' 


3098 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTKY 


<» 


o  •  £ 

w  S  ^ 


E-  -4J  O  o  t-  *^ 


W 


£  «.S 


w  as  ^ 


:5;  ; 

;§  ;  ; 

1  tc     1 

*  c  g  ra  -tj  -^ 


C^  --'  ^  CO 


M  <M    CO 


CCiX)'*t^CO-HX(M'<fl^TrOX'C^O'MOO 

t^  — <  00  CO  X  CO  00  00  c^  lO  ^  cc  1 —  ■■-■ 


-fOCO^-H-:t-I^rf*OC 


rr-  O  CO  CO  I-^  —  -^  !-*  ^  O'  —  CC'  (M  ■—  t-^  - 


"^D  OO  Oi  CS  CO  — t 


lO  ^  ^  r-i  ^  C^ 


o 


oooooooooooooooooo 

00000000000000000<M 
OO-^rOOOCCOOOOOOiOOOOCN 

o»o■--*a^ooL'fl^^co"c^loc^loolo»o>c■-^ 

Ot-TOCOiOCSI^CNCSO— 'OC^OO  CO 


■*-*  *  ni   tX       til      - 

»-^  g  oi  g  ^  5  &2 


5^  D.^       r^^ 


.5  ^ 


qDO-^OCOQOCOO'-i<£>00'-'^CS<N(NCn^>l 

■^00'-H<N'<^Or^CD'<*5-<:)5cO(N--^CDCOo6^ 
CS  CO  ^         (N  TjH  c^l  i-H  ^  i-H  M  .-1  ^  ^  C^  ^         C^l 


ki      ^  o  o  ^  '£. 


O  OS 


iO»OOsr^COOOI^CO(M^OS-«J*CO»CCCCOCCCO 
OSOfOO»Co6^C^OSCCt-^05odC^C*^CO»Oo6 

^  r-^  ^   ^  CO 


(c  a  c  .,  — _ 

0-( 


cscoc^oc^coCNicrscs-HooO"*o»c»0'^tr 
»c^^^oco«^"o6t^t^t^oco'c*iroTj^csas 


c.55s  - 


CS'-<Tt<COTfCO"".  --      ,. 
•-hOu^O  —  l'^r0O»0!O- 


.locn— '^"^Oioco 


OOCO^CSOtOCOCOOICSfNtMiCCOU^tC-—  I 


.5  ai-o.S  CD 


^  « 


^•^5 


CO'^'^QO^'^OOcOwOCOCMOOCOI^COOOO 
OOCOO-iJ't^Olt^OiCOTfOi'-'GO^cO^^ 

ai '■i^  GO  00  00  ^"  CO  ^-^  Tj^  tC  Tf^  i^  ci  CO  CO  i>r  »o -^ 


ca  c5 

a  2, 

ajo 

i;^.S 

5  X 

b-^ 

t^c^r^CROioo^ai^ooo  —  —  icaoajcs 
o>*<coci5^^io^cD-*QOooif;t^ocnQO 

or^o»ocDo;c^ocD-^oaioc'o^oiioo 

CO  — ■  ^        (N  (N  CN  ^        ^^^        .-.  (M  — < 


COt--b-"jC^C^COi— 'COO-^'^Ct-rOt^Oi— ' 

ooco^«oot^»OQO^c^^i^^oooy::'*o 

•-HOS'— 'tOOOOiCOCOCOO^OOOOll—  t^cou^ 


Ci"        CC^OO'ci 


00         od  — ^CD  --i" 


C^COiOCCiCOOO— 'COOOt— 
OGO'^OOCOO^OOOOiO-Hl^ 
00*i~-^CC         OCSOlfM— 'COCS 


CDC^OOiOOOi^iCOOOCOCOcOTjiOOOCO 
0105CD— 'COOO— <01'— 'OiOOt^t-iOCrjCiTtHiO 

ocS'-t'COcooi-^coocsCTit^r-^cOTr'cocs 


a;  M  .-H 

4.    O— ( 


;C!.-<— <C0C0CD-^r--^Ot^CDt--t^t^OCi05 
COiOC^asiOtJ^O-^-*''^COOOC^— '■— "lOCMCS 

(M»0'^«t'Cor^cocorocoot^(Nr^oO'^ooco 
o^if5"ood»oocrod"to»ouocc'"co"uDt--rod^'^ 


ost^t'-c^'tfoicxoooooo'rf  —  t-r^>o^ro 

r^CDOOCSuO^ClO'^iOCSOOiCCOO-^COOOO 
CiCNOOOCO^COO^OOiOiOrr-fCCCOOiCr- 

c^^o-4■c^fcoad^-^loocsodco'"c5'c'i'cood--^lo 

OO^HOOO-^'^t^TpCO'M— >OOOC^C^«^CO--« 

'V   ^00  00   CO    CO   Tf  ^  u:) 


■ago 


oooooooooooooooooo 
ooooooooooooooooocs 

OO-^OOOCOOOOOOOiCOOOCN 


OO-— iC-00>0"^:OOi 
O'-'C0«'0C^I~C^iMOC 


;  O  lO  UO  lO  •— « 


i-iC^CO'^*CCDt-00030'-HC^e0^iOCDt»00 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3099 


icc^i— icocc^'jOioa' 

»0h-(MCDOC^CX)O00 

•ga 

m  3 

"■'  a 

0  ci 

a 

9  1=^ 

x; 

a. 2 

o§ 

^ 

■O 

>.-£;^.^.^  g« 

.3^ 

03 

5r'*3«    .Q-S.3'^ 

5 

ome, 

etroit 

^aterb 

ineinn 

hicago 

.  Ham 

[innea 

eoria , 

etroit 

«Qp:ocj«^i1hQ 

o  V-,  o  £f  o 


o 

f^S  aj^  °  o  ^ 


Ccrci:=3£"^ 


S«  - 


tj;<5  M  K-  hH  O  O  -g  -q 


)  ri*  lO  5D  t^  00 


03  3 


O 


^2:^ 


•7  o    .  £^ 
s    \^u.s-       -.2 


o  on 

_     Bo.'S 
2  gc3  o^ 

Q  03— ,   c«   C 

j:::  w  p  o  t- 
*-  '-'  iri'r'CC 

Qj   gj   QJ   •-■  "^ 


T3^  m  ^ 

c  =  c  ■>, 
2^3g 


3  » 


^c^co-^u^cor^ooos 


3100 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


°  fc-  a  £ -2  o  ^  k.  "2 


a.»ogg- 
'■^■C  a  O  _ 


ot^ 


50' 


1  ic  1^  00  o  »o  t^ 

"OOTOOOOINIM 
I  C^  oi  ^*  CO  CO  t-'  rH 
1^0        C4  lOCOCO 


005C^cococ^oo^r^r^aicD»oo-<j*r^ 


£:  2  a  a  o  c 


I  00  CD  r^  10  CO  t^  .-H  iM  01      c^ -^   I  — < 


»O4OC0CO'*CO»Ct-Ol"*00C^'-«(NCO^ 


ir-tDtMcociC^coco-rroo-^oo 
*  ■or-oi'-t<:oo3--H"^a>'-Hr-oco 


c^T-«c^..^y:>ooi      oir-wrt^'^rfcx: 


•   r-l   (M  OS  (©  10   T}<   .-t 


00  000  0000000000000000  lOOOOOOOOOO 


OiCOOOOtQOOOOOOOOOOOC 


"OOOOOO^OOO 


OOOOC^IO0l»OOOOiO'OOOOOC0OO00^-OO*Oc0O00OOO 


Ot^O-^GOOiOt-OOiOO'MiOt--iOO^OlOirO» 


CI      c^iocsc^  coO'-<Tr(N      co^c^ 


M  W  T-H 


.-H  o  o  cs  o  o 
^  C^  W  o  c^ 


§  o)  c  ^  .S  -2 


'?.-r 


o  >•  9 '3,^       ^ 


^  g  S  o  g  g-Q. 


^HOiO— <00cC'-'C0C^C0t^Gi0r--C0iOC^C0C100O-^^  CCb-  01  >0  ur5  (N  Oi  --  -^ 

c^icsco-rfc^ococ^-— «r-ooio--^-^r*Goai»o»rDc^t-o  c^  00  tt  Ci  00  --*  -^  ci  Tt* 

OJ'^^'^'CS'OC^'iO'-Hoiod'^b^-^OOiaicOGOGOC^^OiOGOOicCt^'^^ 


^^t- 


1^  j^  a>  'I'  '^  /-,  *■ 

(V*    Ol    □    W    M  ,^j 

•—1      .^  czxi 


'COO— •OC^CJt^C^Oi'^QOiCr-.COOlcDOCC-HC^.— «00500C^CO-^0 


UOC^QO'^'OOOOcC'rl'iCoOtMOCO-' 


iMC^'^— i-^CCC^CC'*--'''**'-''^ 


C^OiCMC^CO'—OtOOCOCOMOOOOC^iO-^OOOOC^OOOO-^C^'^GOOCD-^CO 
C^I-^C4CCTt<«2O'^':DC^C^»0(NG0CSt^e0CCTj*i0rt<'*OCC"*OC0C^'^r--ia5 


^QOOia)r'-'<j''-'t^'rt*ot^t^^'^cccoocoi-^<MroGO"<*^c^cocC'^cC'-(cOb- 

GC^iOOl^O'— «CCit^(MOfCTj'005t^CDCCCCC*iOGO-^OOOS<:O^C^05COCOCO 

Ot^u^od"^'— ^c/T'^'^rocd— Jooc*3C^*»oidc<iio-^"cDcocciooic^ 

C^IGO— 'C^C^uOCSTPC^C^C^TPCOt^C^C^r-tTjiC^»OCOi-'Tt<CCCOCOC^C^'-'C^'^ 


SSgg-22 


P^  o  S.9 


^■" 


r-tM^OO^'COCO— «Ort(N<NCOr^-^'<^CO-«*<C^«— ^^OCdO-^MCCt^^^ 
t^<£;C005OC^ai-^O^0iOc0t^'Oi-*CS?000»CG0»Or}'iOC^C00i05^0>00 


'to-^i-Hcor^h-osi^c^'^os 


CDQOiOt>-»OCSC^0005Tt<t^OOCOOO»2 


C^O,-lTt<ifi0S«D"*?0C0C^t^C0CSC^00e0'*i0i0«DI>-t^CCG0»O'*(N'^i-i'^ 


(N»o— ir-cc-i'O-^otocsosco-^-^o^oc^c^or^'Ob-coioQOOiGCio— < 

OCDh-TTOiOO— 'OCDCS'-HiOcO'OCSCDiOiOCCiOCCOr--— 'c*:)-^cct----«o 
iOiOu:iiOCSC^00'<*^O"^'^'^C0Tt-TrcC0l00(O'-HOO'-H— 'C^rHOOOO-'^^O 


TtiiO-^OC^lC-)**COCX)CD"^'-<CDTt'00'-'OCOOiCO'-HtO'^Tj<ccr--COTfiiOCOC2 


t—  lOiCC^lt-t--— 't^OiCOiOC 


C^  — t  CO  — < 


■ilX^OiOlCOOSOO'^CSOi 
i  C^'  CpO  "0  CD  ^'  ^  QC"  C^*  --H  iO  oi  u6  CO  "^'  »p  10 


.-H  COt-HCJ^T-l  r-l.-t  Oi  r-.— ( 


o?^— iiooioor-coQOcciotor^"Tj*io— ic^"T}*coOi-^iowt>-iocsiococ^c^c^ 

OOCOCT>COiO-^C^O"-OCO«DGOcOOCSOOOO'— 'OSOh-O^OGO-^COOiOiO 

cooiC^oococ^cocsooc<^^-■^GC^-(COt^o^'-^o^o^C'>oc^oc^'-'C^cOGO 


1  o:  10  o  -^  «5  'tit^  '^ 
I  o  r-  r-  (N  r^  10  •* 

I  00  GO  -^  CO         (M  CO 


o  ^  ^  ^  ^ 


iCOCS-HcOC^COOOO 
i^COC^OOCSCOiCO 
i"<^0*0— (QSC^-^CO 


1  -*  o 


iCOOiOS'^^OOl^iOiOCDiO'^iJOCOMr'-GO 

_>  00  CO  r- tp -^ --H  05  o  00  ic  CO  o  t-^  ■^  CO  CO  o -^ 

ICOCSOt^t^COC^b-COC^CO-'J^CSiOcC'TfMCD— «l:^COC<ICS(NTf<C^nHC^t*i-H 


1-HcOi— iCD'^OOCOt^Tt^Oi . -  ~  ■ w ---__   ..   -.- 

OimOsuDOOt-O-— tiOGOcOCOOOOCOr-TP'^--H05000'CCOOr^'^COCOO-^ 


c^r*c^.sooc^r-'^ooh-'*ooooi'— 'oocooo-— '-^iMt^'***'— 't^f^c^ot^co 

-^_iy3.— i-^iOcOOOOiOOOOiCOt^'M'^cOcOCOiC-^O'^C^— 'Oi^'^CD'— c 

O'CcC'^Oi'^'^r^'— '"^ccc^r-csr-iocO'OiOcoajcct^t^'^'Cocsoot^^o 
"^  ^C -^^ .--' -TtT  (:7r  u^"  CO  o*  cs' Tj^  c^"  i>^  CO  o' c-i' t^  ■^"  1-- co' Tt<' co' -^^ 


CN  CO    CO       i-(  ^ 


cococO'^iMiOio^o^ixrrs'^coxioooocoo-^^cat^'^cjcC'^poOco 


"^OS00iO01C00000C0'-Ht--iOCDas0iO 


S'Tt^OCO-HCOOOOO-HC^OOCO 


t—uo— (00"OOOi(NcOCOt^COOir-t--i-tOOOiOO'-«t^a5COCOCD00050CO 


cooo^coooooooo- 


CO  t^  CO  CO  .-H         Oi  "*  --H  t^  c 


<t^I>.»OC30C^r-OO— 'CCC^OOCOOiCOt— O'-'OOO 


Tt^  10  lO  I— (  to 


H  tP  ^  ^         (N^C^COO-^ 


g-oos 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOQOtOOOOOOOOOO 


OiCOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOC 


OOOOOC^OOO 


OOOOC^OOtOOOoO^^iuOOOOOOOOOOt^OOtiOcOOCOOOO 


or^O'-'ooooot-oooooc 


(N        W  »OCmN 


COO^-ItHO^ 


-  lO  00  O  OCO  w  CO  CO         i-iOO<NOCD 
D  rH  C^  ^  C^  C^  —I  t-H  C<I  ^  O  CO 


rHC^CO'^OCDt^COOO'— tCSCO'^»OcDt>-C»050'— 'CSCOTttiOCOr-OOOJO'-H 
I— <i— I.— (.— It— lT-)i— ti-Hr-lt— ICSC^C^MCSC^C^C^C^C^COCO 


Mu;isriTioNS  industry 


3101 


25.47 

107.  04 

2.95 

12.37 

51.89 

jq 

a 

o 

a 

CO 

15,483 
74,928 

7,835 
12, 372 

7,783 

fiO,  800 

70, 000 

265,  300 

100, 000 

15,000 

20.99 
12.27 
12.21 
11.70 
13.67 

28.91 
49.50 
15.40 
19.18 
36.83 

26.48 
14.31 
14.29 
13.35 
14.54 

36.47 
57.69 
18.02 
21.89 
39.18 

•o 
1 

w 
p 

O 
O 

17,  579 
34, 647 
46, 199 
19, 182 
5,525 

20.73 
14.20 
14.54 
12.42 
5.99 

CC  lO  CO  lO  IM 

OS  CO  CD  O  ":> 
iO  r^  oor^co 


•*}^    Tf    lO    — < 

r^  (M  --  00 

■^  iC  OS  "^ 


(ra  -^  Tt<  04  lO 


10  04  c^  t-t- 

r^  00  CD  00  f* 

■^  CO  O  00  00 


t^  r^  -ft<  o  M 

TJH  00  t^O  <N 
t-C^CO  O'* 

00  00  (^  CD  Tj< 


OC'  o  o  o  o 
o"ooo»o 


oco  ■*  UO  CD 
CO  CO  CO  CO  CO 


en  g 


CO  3 


OC000"^00'^CDCC05-r**00;0"<**C0t>r^»OO 
.-hOOOOO-<0000-<— irtOO-HO 


g^2 


-^^^  3'  .5 


O     .O.^ 


.2bH 


.  o 


oja  o  3  cs  3  C-^.2 


a  3 


oxa  o  3  cs  3,3-^3.2  ".H  o  osr:  6  a> 


o 


—  ,9  OOP 

5  O-S  .;,Zh"S. 


:z;p 


CO 

•a 

-a  2 


5° 


o 


;  w  c:  G  o  -^  -^  i^W  ^  ^-^  "x:  ^-  3 .3?  § 

O  '1'  i_3  X?  QJ  '-^^^  n->  f*!  "<  ^  b  >  O."^  ■ 


OSO"— *04COTf»OcOt--OOOSO'-HC4CO'^OCD 
i-(IMC4C^CNCSCS(N(N<NCSCOCOCOCOCOCOCO 


C^OOC-lt-iO'-'CDOOcD-^COiOOSt^rO-- 't^-— ' 
r-^OSi— '■^TfOcOOoO-^COO'OOroO'OO 
04.— i.-.OcDQOOSCD-^-^'^CJO'-HCCOOCD 
00400.— lO-— 'CDCO.-H.— '0040-— "OOCO 
»O»OiOW5iOut)»OiO"^"^>O*OOiOU0iOi0»O 

r^O^tN-cDOIOt^^^O^t^'tfCOCDOOwcDO^ 
^        CO  <-l  0>  CO  fH        1-1        COM  UZt'-i^ 


'■S-rf 


>•  j5  .a     J^  s  " 


03  03k 

r-.'^'O  o. 


IccPmO 


^.^ 


03  s'2'o  S 


0  »  g-r.: 
SQOpH^ 


,  o  « 


(DO'S  °^  d  g  a 

csa>D,c3£yc3oO 


50.; 


;  ?  o3- 


0.--.i;  o 


QM 


3-gO 


S^g^-fcS' 


og^oaofe 


1-1  C^*  CO  T)^'  to  CD  t^  00  oi 


ftgOOo 
O.S  cu— . 


o    ■ 


3102 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3 

a 

a 
o 

o 


—     -S     —  .    '^      t; 


W 


■  ■«  a  a  "  o ':: 


■•5  c' 


■w  C  CO 
i2  S°^ 


■20  — 


o  a 


&OC»  rt 


«  o'0_-. 


(-. 

a 

S 

« 

S.2 

3u 

0 

_c: 

^j 

0 

S 

« 

C! 

^t^ 

a 

u 

Q,  00> 

Ph 

a 

0 

i/v 

"■^ 


"S-oi 


c  «  c  2, 
S  o  o  g-; 
'-  *^  "  g  =» 


05 


Did  -j 

Ed  a 


^  8 "" 


1      .      iC^-rj* 

<£>   1    1 

,^ 

CO      1      1 

t- 

t   t   1  i-i  i-H 

r      1  kri 

40        ■ 

1       ICC 

t^O00<MO'*kOC^OSCCO 
■^OOOCNiOiOCOt^GOCOUO 


Tj^COOOOfNOOCOOit^'^J'tM 


is"" 


»0ai-<t^OiOC0CM^00C0(N 


00  as  10  ^  '^  - 


C^  ^         ^CN 


GO  O  CD  O  t--  (N 


O  Oi 


tOOOO'^OOOC 


■1  000  o 


CS  CS|  CO  t^  O  O  *0  CO  Ol        oo^ 


OCO»C»Ob-OGOO'*t 


*  00  CO  CO  O  O  o 


i-<OSCOCO        (N  ■-•  CS  CO  CO  ^  C^  CO  (M  •-' C^  C^ 


CX)'*'0-*Tt<COW»00'-'^t^COOO-*^C3SCO 
OOOt^'-HCO'^CDCOaicDCS'^iaOOOCOCDOi 

(N05CD'^»Ot>-r-il>-0»0^'^t^TfC<ICOCO 


coocor-ost^coi 


-C^-^-^'^COCS-^ 


»OC10iQ0C^C0(M'<r00Q0C^OC0-^'<»''^0a-^ 
O  1^  CO  C»  06  O  CO'  ^*  (N  O  CO  GO  CO  -H  GO  ^'  Tj*  Tji 

'-■coco-^'-HiM^co*o»o,-HTj«'^Mc^(roco 


OSt^CO'^-^C^r-tC^'^TfCDt^iOQOr-QOO-^ 
C^t-HOSTPCOOCOiMfNCOOOOOaiO'^O 

co'  co'  CO  ^"  CO  '^  00  co'  ^'  r^  CO  CD  -^'  o  co'  cd'  >o  — ' 

CSCOGOcOcOt-T-<-^cOcO'-«-<t"00>OCOC^iO 
^  C^  ■-(  CS    C^        CO 


oicooh-t^r-tD-'*<cotot^c^oo«o-^'-'-<j«co 

t>-iCi-'*CCO»CCO*005000I>-t^'^'^'*CO 
(Mt^05Tt<C^)00I^0000CD--ir^wc0Oa:»OC0 

CO  o  CO  CO  00  ■'J^  o  ^^  t-^  o  GO  ■<*<*  c^"  CO '—'"  CO  r^  oi" 


Ot^— "O'^OOOOCOOOaiCO'-'O'^GOOiiO 


CO  ^  !>>  '-"M  (M 


00--tt^*OOai"*iOOcDC0XOG0»O<NOt>' 
OsO'^-HCDTf-^iO-^COC^OiCOOC^OcOcO 

cDcorrcO'^^coiocot^Oic^as-^a5'-i*o(N 
-"TcDi-T   Tr"^»-r   coco'"**   co"   c^'"oo"co 


"^  lO  lO  GO 


00TfOlOcD00'^-HiC-—»O00'^'^aiCDt^t^ 

a»coTfcs<MTf-^o»o(Mooc5(Nco-- "or^c^ 

CDOiCSC^iOOSCOiOCO'^OiiMC^fNCOGOGOrr 


,-.        --  CO  -^ 


t^t-^r-c^r-coooscoc^oooO'-^'Oico-^o 
r-i— (»ot^c^o— 'OcoTrcoooGOcoc^o>o 
osr-Hcoot^o-^-^cscooO'-'Oai^^co 

■^~t■-^^OTrc^cc^^od•-^"wcolOcD■^"co■^*oo'lC 


^cooc^-^ocoo^c^JcoocDt-^^cnoo 
^--lO'— «^ooiO'-<oOTfo»ocsait-i^c^ 
■^Tf*  oc^cooco-^Oior^ocJCLi^iot-'* 


i(;)CO         ^CS*OOt^CO(NTp!M 


soit'-r^asoics-^Tj' 


^  --I        t^  CO  <N 


00  ^Oi  (M 


goo 

goo 

Oco  O 


000000000000000 
000000000000000 

OOOOCOOOOOOO-- 'OOOO 

•ooo^ocoooooco"»oooocr 

CSC^ICOCDOOtOCOX        0^0*00 

1-.   P-.  O  ,-H   ,-.   ^   iO 


H  c^  CO  -^  »o  -x;  t-*  00  Oi 


O^CNCO-^iOCOt^OO 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3103 


CC-OCCOlCOh-OI^OO 

oooo^cs--<^o 


C3 


^x: 


:7';?ssf^:^    

r"  '>  ■>  2  5  'ce  ^2  tf 


2  o 

-  bj)    ;     •  ■«-' 

a  a  ^  o  a> 


«'^o 


C  3 


;o 


o   . 


■^.2^  fe.2  c.6^5 


-^.2'^  S.:i  t^q    'x: 

O  i-H  M  CO  T«  ic  C 


OtOGC— «iCiCJCCi:OW 

Oi  I"-  o  r^  cj  o  r^  ^  I - 
t^  t-  t-  r--  t^  t^  r^  r^  r^ 


-o    'O'SjT'S    -"3 

o!c  o'ca  ^  »2  a^S 
PP  O  m  pq  w  Q  PL,  Q  Ph 


PS 

bjo 

S  S  c 

co2m 
^.  o  o 


^  to  bl*J  ^ 


S  oj  is  ^  r<^ 


|S« 


I  9  — 


I^PL<!_)W|S 


;  ^  t^  00  OS 


3104 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


a> 


Qj 


w-s 


G  Oi  -^ 


lOOOO  coc^ 
00  »o  iQ  ^  r^ 

r*  o  t-^  aj  -^ 


i^-^  ^  m 


OS     I  »o 

CO     ■ 


"  s  a 'S'  °  ^ 


0:t--C^C0"^-*'-HC»CCiO'-HC0<dCCCC01^0s05CCC<IC0C^a>0iC0'-HOC 


0(N'rJ^CCt^O'-'(NOCDaiTfCJ5(N':0'MOCSiOC^lCOiOCD^^CC^^O 


OC^COrfCSOiC.  COOOCCtOC^CSI— '! 


■oi'XOiO'rrt^aj^csox* 


lCOCO'^~HCiQO'--«iCCO-*OC)COCOCOC^JtCC500C-i'-i(X>O^ClQOCCO 


h-  05  CO  ro  oi  t 
O  (N  -^  -H  ^  ; 


CO  -^  <C  (N  (N 


■;-^iOCOU^i-HCOCO*COCOOOC^IO>OOOOtOOI^ 


H  ^  <£)  05  CO  ■-.  --^ 


0000000000000000000000000*0000 
OOOOOOO'OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
GC-aOOOOO'-O— -OOOOOiCOOOOOOO-OOOOGOOiOO 

<c«Dcoo"c5'o'ai"coooo"ufo'^oooooioo:Dooo'Goo      lO 


00  O  O  >— '  1— «  iC 


D  O  lO  CS  OJ  CS  Ci  o  o  o  ro  o 


f0i0»001iO(MTt<CCC0P0t-*Q0'-«b^t^»OC^CD'-HCDG0C005t^00OO'-«aS 

coooJ^^(^»<©^oa)ai^--•<^^r--^looos1-Hcow^©c^lOCDOl^*^^oo«^05co 
'-H^t^c4oi■^cccdo6^-^co^o•ocx5^^xlHlooasTr•~It^Tf5rocdu:^^^ 


(NtM^COi-iNCOr 


-    —  —         ■      ._  o 


M-^t-iO-^OCO-^GCTf^fNOOOO'OOiOCC^irOQOiO'-'OOOOOCi 
<aDOO"^'Ot^OlO'-'OOOCOl^t--t^QO'-'COi-HCOC^I-^t^OCCO!rOI>.0000 


?DiC00iCh-CDG0<£)r'-<-'C0iX>Ow05Tpa>C^Tf'*»OC 


00  CC  ^  ":>  CO  r^  CO  CO  04  (N  O  O  iC  (M -^  — <        Ol -^  CS  t-<  C^  Tt< -*  n 


)  ^  O  O  "0  t>- 


O  "0  t>-  Oi 

—t  csoc5 


fin's  g.cS 


«C!C^t^C-)iO«00'»J<*OCSi00001^CO^OOOt^<NC^'^CO^OO(M»C»C[M 

t^o^ot^x>=or^Q005»ooc^»oc5f:oi^^H-^o^H^HC^aoGot^co*-<o 


^asfcooot^oo0ics»o^^as'*a5'-'0c 


3  O  OOO  :0  CO 


csccc^»oc^:ccC'-HC-^c^ir:>^'-n^co^^'-i-*j«c^i»oc^o^Trr^oja3^ 


■SCO—     . 


See 


1.  o  o> 


■30  " 


10— 'COOWCCCOOC^C^-^CDt^OiO— '00"^OOW-*0-^fCCO-<*'':000 


)t^^^coQOOC^^loa)cCTJ'OioooOlOOl 


jOiCftCieor^ooocD  — 


r-Hfrcsccoi^?<'^"*cccoo:(N»ocs»o^H^HC^icocs^HcocO"<rcococc(Mco 


«  o 


'S'o 


3^2 


l^b^t^iO'«t<C^i~<iOOOOS'-Ha5COi:DOilr^OOCOCD:DCOOiO'-<--i^kOO>CN| 
OOt'-iOiOr^O^Oi^O'— icOt^PO'— •GOt^OOC^COCDcOC^O'-'OOOCOCOI^ 
.-iCSO"^t^-^=£>tOTj<iOCOCO'NCOOiOCOOOGOOOCOOCOT^OO'-HOrr 

lO  GO  O  10  CO  QO  CO  u^  »0  O  CO  CO  10  O  TP  l>r  OT  CD  00"  1:0  CO 

!:>- CO  CN  --t  C^  GO    r-i  04  ^  iO  C^  i-H  t^  05 '^  (M  Tt^ --h  tP 


00  CD  — -  CM  O  CO  O  I 


^00'MCOCO*OCS<NCD^Oi«3'tJ'00-HOCOOSOOO 


t^t-iO-^OOlOCMcO-— 'i-H^COCDi-HCO'-HiMTfiCOCDTjH^oanoor'^'-.CO 

Tt5t--^crioa6cidcdTt5oodcoTt5*ot-:ioaic^c^c6cDodoi^c^Tt^»o-^« 


■2« 

03 


ii0C0G0^C001C0lN00c0'^r>-00Cri--l:^*OC0OaiC^C0(NC^Cft0iC0[MCN 


CDr-0*OCDOCOC 


I'-^oo^coGfsoigioo^-ooo  00-00  04  o  as  *o  as  ■^ 


t^c^i--toiooCMOiO"^iocor-Tt<oor-i^4cD'^'— 'OsOcO'-HTrooriioco 


■^TfTt-O^O       c^o-^o^cs 


(N  ^        ^ 


.-.  00   TT   i-H  i-H   Tt<   CD  CO  t 


s-1  2-^ 


t-  CO  GO  Oi  t^  t^ 

CD  CO  10  O  Tfi  O 
O  00  Tf  »0  O  CO 


h'-OOOS^tDOCOC 


>-<(*<W3(NCN|.~iTf«5a500-HO 


a5t^OOCOOOOOOt^t^CSi--HOOO»OCOOOOCOC_      

lOtOCO'— 'CDt--'— «OCSCDO0000CO*O»OTfI>-'-HiOO 


b  CO  10  to  <-<  ^ 


oocooc^cD»oco»oooco40c^c^ojoO'-'aiOi'or'^oc^oocoOi-H<Nc^c^ 
Oi'^»oa3'-<-^coaiOcooot^cO'-*icaiCDcoooioo4r— coaicooorf 

r-,'rw(>jrTiir5eoojrTar^r^"ct"i^asor!irrtT*ir5coir5eoiT^iO(:ricr>cor--.ai(!^(r« 


t--'<^cvias»ocDCso500 


_cc>ODiocNi>-coaJco<is<3Tr 

OCD»OCOCNiOOOCOCOr-OSOCO 

W3<Nt>rcT       CO 


*0»OCDOCOiOC , ,_  

Oi^ot-'— •co-^GO'-HOOiaioait-oooocDiococ^cor^'' 


'»oO'*coaicoio»oas^-cooooo^'* 
■ oO'-Hiocoor^co-^oooco^ 


■«  C>  t^  ^  f-H  00 


OiCS'*cooi"<fcooooOTpcO'-'t>-i040^-o»ocor^'^oocDr^fOOco-^t>. 


Ol  »0  W  (M  CS  <M        1-*  10  CO  ai  CO  ■—< 


CD  -^  00  »0  >-H  »0 


«  o 


i-<J<(M'^00-<J''^'^OO^OCSCOOOcDtJ*Oi 

__ —  .    -.    ..  -^  J^  J_J  J^  ^  ^«J , 


•  O  OS  00  CO  o  o 


000000000000000000000  OOOOiOOOO 

000000  o^ooooooo  000000  0000  00000 

0000OOOOcD'-iOOOOO*COOOOOOO»OOOO00O'0O 
0000— ii-iO         Tt<tOiOOC^COC^'-<*00»OCS(NCSCSOOOCOiO         N 


i-iC^CO'<J'iO(OI>00OS' 


Oi-HCSC0'*iOC0b-000Sp^MC0 


^  »0  CD  r>  OQOi 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3105 


— .  "C  C30  (N  O 
lO  <N  CN  'Tj^  00 


CC  CO  W3  i-H  t>- 
OCO  »0  '^  t; 
t--  t-  t^  CO  o 


oo  o  oo 
o  o  o  o  o 
o  o  o  o  o 

o  o  o"  O  lO 
lO  o  c^  o  c^ 


,-(  CO  '^^  r^  r^ 

r>l  CI?  oi  o  O 

i-c  Cl  CO  (M  CJ 


OOi  CO  05  -^ 


OJ  Oi  «D  CO  00 

w  oJ  »c  :o  o 
C^  CO  'X;  c^  cs 


r^  (M  ^  lO  -^ 

CO  en  00  ^  CO 

r-^  1x3  o  c^  o 

C^  Tt<  t--  CO  -t 


r-.  ^'  y:?  o  ^ 


lO  iC  X  ■*  t 


lO  *0  CO  CO  t-» 
Th  05  C^  lOCD 

oi  CO  o  ci  c^" 

i-H  CO  ''T  cs  c^ 


O  CO  i-H  lO  ^ 

.-H  r^  o  Tt*  CD 

CO  »0  t^  (M  Oi 

CO  "5"  "5"  r^  CO 


c^  OO-H  oc^ 


Ci  CO  iC  ^  O 
00  —I 

00  00  o  ai  05 

I— «  ?D  -t**  00  CO 
lO  00  »-0  lO  o 

CO  "H       .-Tco 

t^Tp  IM  O  'Tf 
C^  (NCO  UD  00 

^  lO  ^  --H  »0 

COQO  1-t  coco 


Oi  lO  — t  *C  00 
r-<  »0  r-  CD  »o 
*-l  05  to  00  CO 


<N  -^  ^  as  05 


ooo  oo 
ooo  oo 
ooooo 

o  c5"o  o  lo 

^  O  C^  O  (N 


c3  j:2 


i-(Tt*»oooooooc^t^'^t--*oS5ioaicot^co 

fMC0»0t^C0iOO»0CMC033t'-t^CMi0OC^ 
OCO— 'COOC^'— '■-<(MC^'-'C^--<00O'-«"^ 

csh-r-.-Ht-oc^cooocoooO'-'Cio 


(M^-^.-H.-i-t'c^oioo': 

^^^  ^  ,_,  1-H  CO  CO 


ex        r^       'O  ^         ^'^         l-(   yi     .        t—   "^  ^ 


^  -^  w   "  0^  <^   CJ 

K  K  >-<  "s  ^  • « td ; 


So 
.B:S 

og-s 

03    ,^, '^< 

CO  ra.t; 


^  w  OJ  c  c  ^  al 

c  5  _,  >-  ^.  r5  ° 


oocrsO^C'Jco-^iocot^ooaiO'-^c^ico-^ 

^— «C^C^Cl'MOlC^(M'M'>4(MC0COrOr0CO 


CT  CO  CO  CO  CO 


O'-HXCDC^t'OiCDcDcO-HcOCO-^Tft-aiC^ 

•^r^— i-^c^ocDi^-^'^ox*oxco— '■— ' 
CJC-iTrco*cosoocoaj— 'Xcsco— 'cor— 
ooccoooooooo^or^cor^co 

»OiO>0»OiOU^O'0'OiOiOiOiO»0»0'OU^ 

.^— ,^-*.^--^_M^OiQiO^O-— 'CD-— '--* 
f         ,-.  lO  '-'         CO  ^  C^  ^  ^ 


00  O  •—  CO  CO  c 


s>i' 


9  « 

d  o 

O  bJ3 

•  ■       '^  —I  o  °  o     . 
.  t;  (J  am. 


-    -•     -gZ-,Z 


QJ    5    l-    ^'j  P    ^  45  --^  '^J    K-    —    '.^  ~    ^    — '  —    w 

w).2  cao3Srr'a>^><aco^'So3t. 

m(i,^oP5Q2HartWcc(i<01zo:zo 


bib 

i,. 

m  O 
t3  (an 

o^ 

^>  o  o 
o— .^  >>o 

^5«33o 


fH  Oh  CQ  <;  M 


5^0 
a  23  5 

^   ".2   CO 

fcZt^K 

®    Oi   r^    OJ 


a 

o  o 


o  o  o 

bi   ^M 

S  °  ° 


o  c   .eg 

<C  O      ..2   03 


— •c^ioo-r»o«::i^aoci50^-c^ccr)->o:or- 


3106 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 


-H  rt  00— • 


t^  Tf   —  C5  I^ 

00  »o  oi  o  -^a^* 

•-'  CN  O  C^  Tj' 

CS  -^  r-l 


■O  Ol  CS  Oi  -H 


00  o  — t  00  r^ 


■^  a  o_ 

£i  ®  S  a  o  CT. 


IMOC^00OCC'*e0Tt'irJwO»OC0<N»J:jC0C5iCc0C<l00O'-'C^G0Q0C0»O^ 


•CDC0*0OC0r^I^t--<Dt^'^C^U0CCWCCG0t-01i 


^OOSCNOOOif-HOO 


coC'j'^OioocS'^.-H-^t^.-HC'j      1— leoccoi 


OiOOOC*»OCC^COI^QO'— '■^air0tO0iO03t^Q0'--0Ci0OO(N01CCQ0»OC0G0 


«  s  ^ 


OiO'^'ioo-^ooc^oas' 


Qooooiooiu^csr^c^cstoooi 


iC^Ol-^TO'-'O'^OOCCiOCO'OC 


)-rj<r^CDOO(MO'*t--OuOtO'*'(NC^O 


oococooi'— «»C"^c^c^r>.cccocccoajo^t--t^cc~"  icoor-co' 


C^       00  -^  *o 


•  <->  ^        — '  o 


oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo 


oooooooooooocoooooc:^ 


;ooooooooo 


';0--'OOOOi»000*OOOOOCSOO^Ot'»r:iOOOOOC 


^COtOCOOI^OCC         —  GCC^  1— lO^ 


.— I         CD  i-H 


gSg-ScSla", 


p:=.S' 


CDOOOO»OCCXr^CiO<N05'«fOO'^»C-<*-c^r^00002"^^C^<-'(N(NtO^COI^ 
iO^HCCI^<NO'*'— 00»O'-^05-*C^t^cCCCOC^^^00t^OCSC^C^'-<t^'^*^**J* 

c-ioo'cc^ccccoc— •■^c^i05o:cC'«3Hcccoioc^oc*5"cdicoo6r-^^o6o6co»oco 


".5  S  m  "  ><'S.oS 


P  (U  c  oi'Sos 


iOCDCCUOOOCNCOGOCO'-'r^COOOOt^OOO(MCDOO:(M<-»(M<-H<C 


(McO'Crj'OitNr^^Tl-iOtNO:— ^4000CO^O^CO<£i05000t-CO 


:<Mt--coo— <co«:;ic>(MOiiootocc-- i05ceccscico>— 'OC'i.-HCOOGO 


CO-— 'C^-'i'tO'— >oc^iooo:'-->*ooioo';0'" 


'Tfcsccascco-— ""^'OGCco.-'t^co 


r-  cs  iM  o  ^  00  o  cc  t"-  i 


;Tt'cC'OCN00":;»O^'—  t-~tOI^CC^'Xt 


lOCOCO'COtDOOC^'— i-^t^OOcCCOCOCOC^CrOr-HTj^cOC^CltM'CCSiOCOCO 


OOOOC^CS-^CD^r-.^t^t^OOC-ItOr-r-CCCCOCCKNcC^Ol  ii-HOfNC^ 

t^CNr-.Tj'I-^^CNtMcCrCO'-'l^t-^tOOiOCC'MCCCiOOO"-**^  iCOO^OOi 

•-J  CC  i:C  C  Oi  rt''  1^'  ^  — ^'  O  UO  O  CO  "*'  00  O  O  CN  '*"  ^'  t--^  00  t-^  CO  .--3  CO  i  (N  C*  I"-^  O 

aiOCO<:Ct-^-050:CC^— ■OJ'^COCOCDCOOl'CCO'-"'— tCOC^IMtO  iC^O^OTt* 


ioc^05(Mcoot^C5^c^(Nr-'*'r^c^ooa;t^ocDcor^'— 'iocioicocor^i-'-^ 

O*—  OiO-— ■COOOCDCSCOOOC^'— 'OI—  ai'-'00(M-rt*0'^CNCN"^05"^CO^ 
CS— "COOOaiO-— 'l-^rjirPOOW^CO-^COOlOOOCOiOOOl-^iOtDOOiCOOOOasCD 

occcr^o>ococc>--»ocO'--J"coor--rc'coc^rtoocr-TjH'r^-^^ 

(M         f-i  1-1         CO         C^ 


P   QJX3   P 


S  o  ^  '^^  g  ^ 
£o^P" 


g25 


'rJ«OJOi00a5U0C^OiCTt*CDCN^CC<£;'«J*C 


c^c^Tj<rroi--»coooocct-Tp'^r-.'-iO-^'-'CScoo300iC4cc>co 
CO  c^  t-^  c^'  o  -rr  --H  .-H  o  ■--  CD  o  00  CO  t^  Tf^'  00  CO  o  CO  lO  •--'  GO '-''  oi  lO  CO 


COt^'^CO'OOt-^'O'^O'-'OO-^— -coo-- '»OCOt^CO(NCCCOTfCOcOCOOOO 

0>or"-or-r-.cot-^cDcD03t--oiOi»or'-Tj-r-.oiccooo^c^occai,^rr'ioc^ 
cDoo^"^05ooccocD>0!C'CDOyDr^a5'-HOii~-cococoot-^o';^co<x;cor^-^ 


Oi  tc  *o  r-  -^  r* 


-rJ^cOOOCCOOOOC 


H  "^  CD  GC  CD  >0         O  t-- 


sr^TPoios'— 'coc-r— ■^i 


-— icDC^h-CDOTt-Oi-— •(NOlCDCOt^Tt-iO-— iC^i 
COrfcDOOS'^Oi-^COCOCSO:-^'--"iO(MCO»Cf 

iO         Oi"  "^'"  -*  O  CO  C-f        '~^''  >-r  ^  CO  CS"  "O  cf  ■^''        » 


H  '^  o  a:  O  ■-•  ' 


iOiCDl^GO'-<CStCC<IOC*0 

loococomco-^r-ocooi 


t-"  t-  CD  Oi  <— '  Oi  I 


OS-— <CDOic:005CDOOascOh-OiiOOOCOrf.-tOOt^'^CD05'OCO.-*OOi-*C^CO 

Goas'^cO'— 'h-oot-^"^cooio»o— It— (Nc^ooTfOoaiooGOTrcoiC'^'rr— «eo 

C^C0Oc0O'^CC*CC0C^C0i^5O»OC^r^00C0CDC0C0TfC^"^I^CD00iC00CD<N 

CO       O'-T'-H.-r      T^"      t^r-TcT      ■^CO'^"           id  7-^                coc4"co           i-Tc^ 
«?■ ^ 

OOOiCOiOOOOTfrp-— icDC^OOC^l'-HCO'— ■Cr-X'>OOiOOcO>-«iOCOCOCDO'-<C^ 
OCOt--iOOOO"^GOCOOCC^iCC*<— 'iOiCCOClClCOCOCOiOOi(MaiCO--<OOOC31 
OOOiOCSOOOl-^t-'— •Ol'CC^'-*''— lOClOaiCOOO-— •— 'lOcOiOiOI^CNC^COO 

ic  CO  "rf  oT  CO  o  CO  o  o  o  ■^" 


cDcct^cc— ^OOGOCD— 'Tj<u:)-*'rj'o:OoocDr--t 


iCOCO^C--""^         COCOOD'-'OCOCCr-i  I—  C^J  .-H 

.-I  1-H  to 


.<N  ,-.  lO  CC 


ooooocoosTf—^c^r    _    ,,, 
ooo--hoosco-^oococ-jc;Oqoi 


-cD^'^Ol'— iCDOiOCSOO' 

.„-. _    ,   —  -..ic;OQ0»O'-Hrro«200ioccc. -- 

^eOi-<OQOCS'^oocot--cocioaocsoicsc^t-»oooooc^occcoasos 


. _, -^ooo-^ooocm:^ 

■'OCOOOiOCCCOOOOOOOCDiO'^ 


OS'— •COOOlOOOfNCD'TpiCOOTf'— 'cDOb-i000G00ii0OO00»O»0tDOO 
CO  C^  t^  CD  CS  CO  t— •  Tf  CS  01  b- 00  CO  CD -H  — I  lO  C^  r- 00  C^         r- «  O  O  CO  CO  tP  00  CD  I— * 


CC  C^  ^  ,-H 


ooooooo-^oooooooooooooooooo 

OOOOOOOGCOOOOOOOOOOO»0000000 


O^OOOOltCOOOOOOOCNOO^COI 


:  o  o  o  o  o 


OCOOOOOi'-'OOOOOcOCasOOt-OGOoOCDiOOOO 


)  CO  p 


HOCOiOCOOl^OCO         ^OOC^I  -HOmi 


1  iC  O  lO  O- 


.-i  CO  T-H 


•  C^CO'^iOCOI'-OOOl- 


■'C^C0rt'UjCCr^0005Oi-*(NC0'^tOC0r^000SOrH 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3107 


^OOOOC/Du-.  .— ii;C>iOOOiOOO      iOC^--"'^00      i(MCDC^5DOOGiO      lOiOCOOi 


c-c^coGCoco'-'--'     •'-tooaiCsc^- 


^Oi      I  CD  O  O  '^ 


1  --  CO  ^  cccc 


CN  CO         --* 


1  00  ^ -^  (N  Tf  O      ilr^OsOoOfN^      1  C^  O  C 
't^CCi(NC»OCO       iO0"^-«J^         (M  r^       I  iC  GO  C 


coTp--H,-(t^.-(coc^a)Oco 


CO'^OCC'-'OiOC^i-HiOO 


CCCO»OiCOi^CCiOiO— '■-44CC'rt<CJ-^— 'OOO^O-^CO— 'r-.iOOQOO-^C:0000 


— '<MOOtD^OOt^<-"^t-I:^TPiOC<ICCt-CJiOGOOl-^C 


OJ,-.-^?Oi--^'^iOt^ 


Oi  Tt<  O  ■^  O  CO  ■^  O  OS  Oi  CD  CO  O  00  OS        COO 
(NOSiMOCOIMC'ICOOCSOS^OuOCO        b-»0 


Oi^COiCOQOCOt^OO— 'OicOr-'—'^Ost-O'OOOOi'-HCOC^CD     I    C^-— 'OCOCC— 'CO 


)  ,-H  »oco       c^ 


^  CO  C^  CD     t    C^J  -^ 


ooco*ccocjccroc>o»o    i  cDcciccDiO  J7*0  r^ 


>  CD  rO  ro  lO    I 
-  ^  CD     I     -^     I 


CO  CO  CO       c^c^w 


ic  c^  a>  «o 

crc4''<a<"co--Hi>r-'  ^ 


GOCDC^»OCOC<ICO>C'^jt.'H':i-HOC'CiOO— ■COOO^O^'-'  —  OOiOC 

r-f-HOicsic-^00;':!  '--■  cDt-i^'-'Ooot^i^ooO'-'CMcococDrrt-c 


r  o -^ -^  CO  jtT  r-T  rj^  oT  oc  o  C4"  ci"  oT  I 


CO  00  :0 -— O  CS  t^ -*  C^  C;  Oi  Oi  Q  t^  t^  OOtO 
oococDiCrocD-^or-cDcdooo— -co  con 
-^ooC'^aiC^cDaicoTt^cocNict^  --«^_^oo) 

•*4^CO  Iff  cc'rf  O  C^oTo  "    r>r  O  C4  — <"  lO  ^  CD 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOCOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOQOOOO   oo 

ootooc:>oooooooocoooooooooooocoooocDooooooc:>ooOQOOooo   oo 

OOCDOOOOOOOOOOOOOCOOMOOOOCOOCMIOOOOOOOOOOOCOOOOO      -OGCOOOOOO 


OiCCOOOOJMOC 
iC'-'TfOOcO'-^'t*' 


JiC'OOOOOOOO'^OXOfMO'rfiOOiOO 


CN0'*0OC^C<)0'^0^I^--*0         ■~>C-(NOO         ^COO'^CKOOCSO' 


JOOCSC^OOOOOOOOOiOOs 


fC.-HiCr-HOoOC^iOfO'^OC^cDOit^C^lOiOOOi'-HCSOCiCOC^C^O'OrOOC^^-'COOOC^r'OiOO'O'^OOCOt^cO'rfcDOO^ 
OSCOO^Oit'-COOlCDCOOiCDOi'^CO'^C^aiCDt^CO-^OSCC'— ••^C^-^COCO'^iO-^'^'— 'Tt(cOC^*OVOOOC» 


oo^^^OieocOQor**o«-«oosc^coooc^aJC^ir:Tf»oc^oO'-«t-i 

.-HCOC^C<lrHCOi-<C^*OC4WCO'-il>-C9C^CO<NcOC^--iC^C^'^i-it-^c 


^^O'-'ioocoioo^oooooooococoocotN^aar-* 
l^co'^^tNooc■^o^c^c<^'^t^lOc^cor-«cDCS<^^^Tploo^<D 


-'^aicoCTP'-HC^coc^co-fcoTfcoai 


3Q0  00  •-'  o  r^O 


io-^(Mo:cor-oocsa>ococcooioot^»oooo    H 


OCOOCGOOlOC^'-'OO'-'OC^t--'— 'OiO"*t---^COi--COCCCCCOr-..-HCDr-I^iCai01QOCOroaiC5)»0--H05C^QO'—  <^ 


-^  lO  t^OCTiO 


OiCOI^-^C^^OC^tMOOCO.—  OOC^OOOO'^t-C^^'-'CC 


CDrOTt«-<*"^^iOCOiO»OQOiO(MOOCOC^»f3'-<aCCOtDOiCO-<J' 


CC  I-^  OS  *C  CO  c^  - 


IcD-^t—  OOS  —  '-'OSTfOC^cD— "TfOOr^      S 
3»OcO'^'^CD<NOO'-<CO'<rcDuOCO»Oa>SO       2 


M^CItOOCDcO-— 'CD— 'COCCOO— "CSOSMcDOiOSI-OOOiO 


■^ocoocooc^o^  —  t^aoocO'OsO'^ 


t-o— 'oor-oct^ccmicco-<*^oos— 'OOOsoo<-«r-» 


coco-^coc^»c»o--c^  —  •^j-QCTfTrc^cocoosco-^— 'coooocoo     *i 


ir:cDo:cDTt"Tj<cDosGCioiMC^cDo;ooocc 


OOOOCDC^^OO-—  C^OSOOl^t^CD-^'COOCOiOcOI-^C^COOOC*!! 


i-htt— ■coc^'^csicDcoc^-^coi^coc^cococDC^oc^L':'^i-^"*c^cococococ^cot^c^c^w:'C^cococs'X;oO'0 


-"  55 


CiCOCOCO'^t^COO-^'— '--<■— '■^C^C0C^'*OOCi0r00SC0t--C000--'         "^C^r^OCD 


-^oc^'OfOOOso»or--^cor-cO'— iCDGOr-CMcococ^4r--^cDc 


lOI—  coosOoo^^coo-— »iOt^C 


Tf-— OOOcDC0c0r^O'*0005O'M(NO>--00r^00O»C 


0"^"oCCDt^r-»OiOO'^0"*C^»-0'MCOai'*— 'OlCDCOiOC^'^CD      .COCDOOSOOi— 00tOCD'-'CD00GOr--»Or--t— COOSGOGOOr* 


jC^CD05lOO^'— 'COCO-— '■^COOr^g;■^■--a;CS»OCOC^CD'--•fO"^t^— iC^-^t.SCD'rI"00-^r-r-»OCScOC^GC 


CO  CS         CO         ^ 


i-t  CS  CO   r-t-^ 


OS  -^  *0  OS  t* 


-OOOs-— 'OiCOCDOOcDO'— tOOOiGO»Oasi 


)OSCOOC^(N<Nt^O-^OCOCOrJ<COCO: 


500-^COO'^COCO'rt^rpGOC^'— tOSCO^-^i-<OSO» 


<OS»-"CO'«#Ot-CC'-HCOO 
,  ^ „ -     _, ...    — s-^cDOsr--^co-^oo-^t-_-.. .     .     -      -- 

DC^CDOOOlOCD■^CO^OOSCD^-COr-l^O■^lOTJ^OCO■^C^C^OO'— *^0^-CD■—  b-COCSCDOOOS»OOOOSOOCOOSiOi-HiOC^ 


OS  OS '-«'-• 


COOt^cOO-^CSC^C^C^r-COOiCOC^COCOiOcCiOiO'^'^'^cDCDiOTrfMiOTi^ 


O  -^  OS  CO  CO  ■—''-<  ' 


H(Nl:^cDiM'-H<MCO<NOs— «-^ 


CD  CO  Oi  ^  04 


)  r-  o  CO  »o  Tf  c 


r--oo  —  i-Hcocociio 


;  iM  CO  c*»  cs  CO  c^  "Tti 


H»ootDt---cooicwosC')oo-**'r----<oor^-^ocoocoos"^cooc^ccio--0'^osoc^oor--cotoososcococcc^"3eooo 


^^lCco■^I-'COC'^cDOc^cO'--'coo^-»o^^-cofO■^OGOC^oc^c^t^t^cD^^^oc^ 
V  -^'  lO  o  •^'  '^^  '^"  ■^'  cs  cs  CD  t^  o  lO  OS  >— ^  OS  ^'  b^  ic  co'  r^  CO  lO  OS  tt  u^'  '^'  o  <i  — ' 

. ^ ^C^(NCOC^iOMC<»-*iC^TfiC^(X>C^lCOCO<-'CO  —  iC»OiOCOC^-^iCCOcOC^CO-^iCC^lTrC^iOC^C^iO-^         CO 


—  CJ  CO  CO  c 


,--.t-^OCOOSOC^Tt't--0'— 'COr--OcO"*C^t--Tj-"<:j<'<:j<'^,—  CO'-H'rt^r~'OOSCDOCCr--OSCD^'flOi03CD"^COCO*00^ 
C^O— 'CO-^OC^C^COCOOC^I— 'GOt^GCiGOOSt--OSiOGO— 'OOC^cO■^OCO^^OOI^■^lOt^Tt'OS■<t'^■^Os»OCO■^CO■-- 
C^C^^CD^-aC— <— '^^ '•--C0i0OC')CDOC^C0t--0:»0C^i-HG0'-HC0iCO— 'CO^C^C^'-H»—  Or-OGCOSt^-'^OCiXcOcO'^ 


^c^c^^-oot^lnI^M^o^cl>•I>•^--^ot^o^-^-I>.cc<©coc^*i::^c^c^■-Hr--o— •r*'— ■^ccGOcocoict^Ocoo-— ■— Oooco 

C^Jr-itNrJ*  — t         ^  OSCO         .-I         t^        OS         C^l         --t  OCOC^*-  OS.-'C^^C^COCOCNCM'-'CO'—  "^CMrt^ 


coosr-osOGOr-oc^'-'cor-'-HOC'i-^coooO'-'ooiocooocNiococ^J 
t—co-^c^'f^t^coo>ococD-H-^ooioiOi-HiceoascDcoc>'^cot--.Tfoo..  —  -.— . , ,  .^  . , • . . -    --.__   .. 

r^XOO— '■^O— 'CDC0C0^0t^C^O■^■^CD0SC<^-#^-^l^^C^^0OOC0C0CCC^OI^0S■^O'-H1-HOCSt^l0t--C0O^0SO^0 


^ JOSOS— '■n<OSiOCO00t-COCDI>-"«rGCCOCDcOutMt^ 

scDcoc>'^cot--.Tfoococcc^x)-^OOscooocoicoscocDC'J>0'r*-*    ■■ 


5C0C0CD>-H-^jiC^C0"3CD»0iC0s»O(NC0-^iCOC^' 


I  — lO'^rf  c 


OSTt*C^i0OC0»OCDC^00OOS--'I--.O 

ac  r->  — I  —  cq  CO  CO  ■— '  o       CO       CO  c^  TjH 


OOGOCO-^OSC^^Tt^iOOSGOCOOO'-HOOSOS-rrcOCDOSOOOOOSOS-rt'COlM-H-wt^ 

Tf  CO  CD  O  OS  C^  lO  (M  GO  OS  —  "■  '-     -^  —  —  — —  --     .- .  —      . 

03C0t^CDC0O0S0St-t^ 


TfCOcDOOsC^iOC^GOOSCOOt^OCMcOCDCOTt^cD'X'^GOCOOOGOO'NO'— tc^^ 


•  GO  r-  t-  C<l  CD  CD  -^  i 


u^r^t^co— 'OSGOO-- '■--'— 'C^J'^^Tpocooo 

._  --  ^Tj-iOcOCDCDGOtOi— 'COCOCOCSt^l^m— 'COO 

ocsoscDcO'-HO'^cor-oosioO'-0'-CMt--"or-GOcocoas{Mcoco 


'';J'C<»iCCOCOC^(MTfOiM'-''-'GO^<M 


co-^ocoGO— ^•-"Ocoaot-coc-4  00': 


-ososo>ococ^-rfiOTf«-<j<cooosoc^iocoosc<icoc^oscoocDt—  o-^cocococooat 


^0'^cot^c^icO"^r--o>o-rc^--c^co^osiOTt'cot^QOOso---'»oc^j— •'^^O'— 'OoocDC*ii--c^r-.'— <OOi 


t-'.  lO  (N  »0  I 


•  •--t--OTrcoc4'-'r-osGOcot'-os— •loost'-co'-'-— 'osr-'^t.-^' 


3  CO  r^  CD  O  ■*  t*  t^  c 


5  CO  lO  CO  <M<N 

t--  OS  in  OS  t^  lo  »o  CO 


t— r-COGOCOO^OC^Ttt-GOOSTr-rt^OiMOOJ-^— <COC<iGOGOOsc 

CO       c^toc^i— <coc^c1'-''OC^cocd'Mcocsc<i:dcoc3C^co       r- 


5r-COcCCCOSt--0C00t^-^--«CO— •COGC0010S--'OSOSC 
*  CO  l>- ■— '  CD  C^         oo  Tt*  r- t^  I>.  I>- r- CO  rt*  lO  iC  CO  I-- -^  00 

CO        CS  CO  •— '        CO  »c  <-< 


-  oo  00 
'  o  C-iO 
I  O  CO  f-' 


•  oo«oo>ijco»f;c-iot— •— '-— 'lO-^iMooso-- 'r-ioiCfN-^ic 
-ooiccoco-^OCNcDOos^-oO'sfoocoo'^ic^c^rci^r-  __ 

:OOC00S0S!M0S"-0-- 'OCO-— 'l^t^f— 'C^r-iiOiCC0C0CM0S"<fcD00»0"^iCO;D 


.  O  t-  — '  CO  ' 


5  COC^  -^OOO 


OX/C^OSOcDt--OC^OCOO--- 

;OI>-O0s0SO--<00CDOO>-«O 


OCDOO'-<00»C'~'GO--'iOiOt--aOt^C 


--<t^(NCOcD     l'<*<<N»iO^C^C^'MCOC^t--OSOh'OSC^OTfOS<NOSOOCD-^eO 


D-— "r^CDOOGC^"^C<l'^OS-^COOCOC^'-HOS-^0'— 'COr— >— *iO        OO'CCOC^OSOC^OSC^OOCDGCO'OCSGO'— ■■^'— 'CO'—O        CO 


»->         O  —  O  — "M 


^  ^  ^  TO  r-i 


<N  ^  00        ^ 


CsJ  ^-^    ^ 


00»c:i:  —  —  —  —  —  ^: 


O  o  : 
o  O  »■ 

oo  CD'  : 

Tco  o'o'o'^ 


■S5S  =  —  —  —  ooo^oooooooocooooooooooooooooooo 

iSSSS^'^-^^^'^'^OO' 00000000000000000000000030 


SOCO^OOC^OOOOOOOOOCCOOOOOOOOCOOOOOOOO 


■C:OC:OTrO00cD'MO'<*^OOOOOO^0OO(M0iOOOOOOOOO»OOc0i 
. .  ^. ^Q^^^^         OOiOOOcCC^lCOOTt^LOOOCNlOOOiMt^ioC^C^ 


■— '         OS         — »         CO         ^  — I 


^  ^  ^  ^  _ 


»OCDt--GOOsO— tC^C0'^Oc0  1^C0a5O^-CSCCTt*i0cDt>-00  0:  O'-HC^C0^i0c0t--a00SO'— 'C^CO-^"5COt^OOOSOi-He* 

cococococo■^^Tr■«*^■^■^Tt'"^J'■^Tt<loo^ou3lo»o^O"5iClCcocDcoo<DcDco<£>cocDt^^^^^^>•t^^*t^l^ 


8387G— 35— PT  13- 


-14 


3108 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


°^§^^^c 


f^^oga^-iau-         CO 


?5i:;^ 


j!C>»0"0— HOO^ioi^rcO'^: 


I  crs  -o  t^  c< 


roc^'^-^oc^iroc^r-f-HTfccrC'— 'CS— iico 


J  cvi  ^    I     I 


c^      ^  ^  c 


68-        —I         -H  -H 


.— I  05  '^  '-'         .-<.-.  CO 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCOOOOCDOOOO 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCOOOOOOOOO 
OOO^OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCMOOOOOOOO 

COU3C)  lOOrOO— "^COOOOOCCrCi^iOOO        ooo        *o*o 


»-^,^   r^  ^  "^  -^ 


I'O'^.S  "^ 


r-^  "TtJ  CO  -rji  ^-^  cs'  :o  r^  oi  ^-■"  crj  u^  c<i  -^  lo  o^  o  Tf<  -^  -rr"  r~l  ■^'  'y:  --H  ro  i-^ 


t^       fu  a>  t>c  ^  — .    , 

S  o  H  1-,  •"   — -■  "  — ' 


'  c^  «o-H  — .  oo  ; 


.aDr^ot--G»oai'*0' 


lO  c^'  :d  ^  lO  o  cc  t^  t^  t-^  oi  »o  ro  'ui  '-^  CO  :»  »o  o  X  00  o  '^"  o  oi  ■*  CO  o  c3 


®  CI  s  >  S"'-' 


(NTn»0Or^^»0C"?a0^H'^CCt^00t^OC0"*-*"^OC0»Ot^^^C^-^O 

^H(M35io^«:3ooai"<^c^oi^c^o^oo«or^co^ooox)05cot^or^'*t^ 


£  S  B  a< 
»  a  5  cai 


ClC00>^C0C0000it^aaC0r^»0Tt*C^CCiQ0l-^G0"^W5C>-C3Q0Q0OiO:CO 

rp.:d^'ol^^ojc^*oooad^dco^^McD^o»oc^^oooo6cdoo>oldMcD 

Tj-'Tj^Tpy^asTpiOT-Ht^cocorotocow-^cococDcoC'ieoococccocor^t'- 


<D  O 


5  -^  lO  r^  — I : 


J  — <  o  lo  "^  c^  ro  'O  oi  :d  o  *>*  -^  "O  o  t—  OS  t-- 


I  !M  O  b-  "^  C^M--  O  Oi  O  X  lO  O  Ci  O  O  C^  »0  I--  X  CS  1— •  C-l  »0  O 


"'^'XiOsc^ioocniocct^rocDT^ccL 


*-^050i-^xoccr-cc 


odcsrofOOso-^>ct--t>-"^X)cccoTt*^Ht^cy50xioo:ooair^jocso 


'N  tc  CO   --»  Tt*  :^ 


13  N  i-M  r-i  X"* '^f  to    CO  X  Ol  05 '- 


05  fl  2^ 
000  g^ 


t^o-^oioait^o-^ocoiO';©'— 'XtNr— "^"^xxcO'^coxiMcO'-'Os 

OC^-H^^X'-tOlOl— ^XO^OiOOCOOXCCC^X-HXiOfNasccO 

oi  ci  CO  t-^  X  X  r^  ^^  i-^  "tp  X  »o  cs  t^  X  cd  --H  CO  CO  oi  CO  r^  ■^'  lo  o 

.-H  CN  CO         .-H  ^  -H         CO  CO  CO  C^  tT  '-'  -^  C^  CS  C^  CO  C^  CO  ^  ^  01  -H  CS  CO  10  ^ 


30u^COC^XCft05'^rt*OC^)0<MtOC^— <» 


3  »o  -H  (M  Tt<  r^  c 


„._ HC^-rrr-XCO'^t^-^XiOQO'—  CNOiCOCO— '-^OiiOXC^CCCO 

03iOXC^COCOiO'^0'-*COXCOOCSt-'XOX— 'XX'-Hr-fXCOOlO— ' 

cDco^o      '<i^05'^      csof-H*c^-H'o5"Tf-"^^Tt-'lri'oo>oc^--'co^^Tt'''TfJ"lotC 


C^OOOOiOSCOCOdXr^t^'^'^XCOiOC^COI^OiOiThC^XC^CiXX 
tO'^iO-^OO-^C^'jJ^COM'M'— "t^CS.-<O-^C0-^C0t^O'O— 'tOOiCOC^ 

lOf-HtC     cocofo      CO  X  c^cNf  o  o  o  coco  tp  tCr>rc4"co      x  cTx -^c^  10 


00        ^  (N  --< 


IMC^         — I  -H  CM  05- 


C0-t*O'0C0'^O»CO'— '■^t^^XtNOSOO^XOi'^'^fOfCOtOOiX 

■— lOi'OO-^ioai'OTt^rO'-'Tj-csoc^cC'— ixicxoico-^-^cococ^c^co 
xo'Oc^csiococoo-^c^ooiOi-Hco— ^xxoxco-^c-ir-c^-Hr^Oi 

— Tc^x      ^c^'-H      co'-H^oi"      ox''*''-H— r      coco'c^'cT      '^'"  ic  co  o  of  ^^ 


COCOOiOOSCOCOCOCDOt^uO— 'XtOCOt"-»Or^r*Tj<C0005CCC^— 'COCO 
CC'^Ot^cO-^-t'uticOOl'— ir^cOXcOCO-— <■— •OiCOOiCO'Mh-r^Ci^CSCO 
TPcOr--'9*XCO"^Ot-^XO"«*^XCOXC^C^X(N»OC^t— ■-HCDCOC^»OX»C 

4CcoarcoroaicDcocDcocD'-Hb-rc^QOOic4"X'--*"X'--^*co 

COrrO  CMTt^C^I  l>.C^CO— 'XCOt^fNC^i-HOiCOt^X  xocooxco 
</»        C<i  C^         (N  1-1  --H  ,-.  ^  CD 


:a2 


or^ooox»ooooo:)00-^iococotooox— 'OOtoo-^r^x 
— ''Coocooi'^oo»0'^0"^a>oxocococ<ir^"^OTpcooo^-^ 
c^cooocD-**'C^O^c^-=ro>ocor-cD— "^■^cDt--r-.oxoocO'— 'CO 


cocoo       ^c^coco:_ 

_,   ^  »0  r-l  ^   r-<  ^ 


rot— 'O-^xx^c^oicococo-— 'Xtoxxo 


CM  ^  — '  O 


)  CO  to  ^  '-' 


00000000000000000000000000000 
00000000000000000000000000000 
00000000000000000000000000000 


OOOtOCOOOC^OOOTfO^ 


;  '^  Ol  O  O  O  O  C 


€e-^  lO  <-• 


otocoo-— tiocooooco;oco»ooto 


^  00  O  Q  O  O 


r-t    r-H    C^    10  CS    CO    TJH    40 


0'-i'MrO'^iocoi--xoiO^ 


U         cO-^tOCDI^XOSO-— fC^CO-#tOCOr^X050000000  0  00'—'— ' 
00XXXXXXaiO>OJasOSOSOSOSOi35^^— *  —  —'  —  —'~'— '—'—'"' 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3109 


"50r*05aiOh-COTt<i:DO      icOiMtPOOOOCTicDOOI-^      1      |«0     'O      '00      '      i:0-^t^'^'»        O'^'-'OiM'^O^^CO^CO'M 
OCOCO'-tOiGOCOQO'C.-i       .-^OCOCl.-i<NCSU^CCC-<0       i       iCT>      'CD       'CO       '       i^»OcCOt-         t--COO<>)':DO(MCCOt— ■-'CO'aS 

18 
26 
41 
27 
381 
52 
7 
55 

11 

63 
355 

' 91 

44 

190 

56 

366 

195 

543 

59 

3,189 

39 

73 

'126 

217 

857 

262 

118 

75 

315 

48 

44 

98 

1 

234 

250 

323 

95 

67 

17 

217 

81 

162 

5,983 

11                 1                ,_,     1          i^                  .  !M     1    O)               r^      1      1                        1                   1                C^                                                     QO 

1  1,  905 
78,  751 

2,538 

6,843 
42, 544 

9,786 
13, 027 

2,400 

11, 044 

15, 947 

1  10, 412 

""i,'885" 

10,058 

1  4,  854 

8,908 

228 

15,  560 

1  136 

133,  782 

76, 522 

*  16,  400 

3,905 

145, 770 

42, 606 

1  2, 148 

42, 897 

223 

504, 929 

12,727 

"  '4,"835" 

15,684 

60, 965 

1  1,  327 

6, 349 

14,313 
1,915 

10. 040 

64. 041 
186, 096 

137 

1,694 

208, 532 

19, 960 

72, 032 

33,  025 

9.931 

187, 279 

0000000000000  OOOOOOOOOiO 
000000000000000  0000000  CJ 
oooooo^ooooooooooooooooaj 


0000000000000    00 =:  =  =  =  =  ,^-. 

O  O  O  O  lO  O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O        O  O  O  CJ  O  O  O  O  O  ^  (M 

oooooooioooocooo_^oo 


oooooo-^ooo 

OOOOO^(M00C> 
OOOOOOOJ'^O 


JiCOiOOiOiOOOOOOCCiOO'-'-rfOOOO'' 


^Tj^cCt-iOiM^CSiOOCNcO— ' 


^  _  O  — '  OCNJ 


O  10  "O  O  CC  O       10  i-'tJ  >. 
(M  C<I  i-H         -rJH  ^         Oi         C 
.-(  00 


5  »0  OOO  »0 


OOO^COOOOt-O 
o  ■^       O  O  lO  o  01 1— « 


o^coccocoooMiOr-^coGOOO'-HcoQOC^'^t-.'— 'COOcco^^■^^-•OiC^c^cca;C•^coooi•^ooo■^cs^-•■-HOoo^■^ 

MI-*l"-CSTt'tCO"^C0OOC0CCCCO'~«f£'O*O01'^G0C^00OTj^CCCnC0C^0iO0iO>CCNi0i0u3!;0'-HC^O^ 

Tji  o  cc  r^  irf.  o  -^  Gc  oi  -o  1-^  ai  »o  -—'  Tf  oi  "O  '-'  oi  CO  to  o  o  o  ■^'  *o  0^^ 


ocsocic^^ox— •^■^focor--03Ct--o^HO'^cst--coiO'^coi 
occ^^!©c^OooTrocsoolMco■^corroooooocc>coc^li^^coo■-.l 


-rt*l-COO'^tMaiOaOOCO»00'-<COOOC^COb-'--'00*^CO 
;Tj-COcCCDt— tOasCSCSt^-^OOCSC^-rfTj^aJ'-H— ■CO'— iC^lIM 


•^i-Hooiotccou^'^ooc(X?0'— ''-'^-oooooaiOOCsoO'— «ooc~iGCCXJt-~o-^ioO"rr"-t't-Hor-ooocooor--c^ 


T-'COCCC^JO-^'— '-Tj-iCTfC 


c^iiO^Dio-— '|^^Tfccooooccc^^o;oooolO-*cooco■^'-<Oi■^oooOl■ 
—       ■■       ~  C-J  i-H       Tif  CO  — '  c^  ... 


ccwco'c-^ooocoiocooioc^Ci'^t—  -^uowortciot— ou:i<3icot-ai':o»coiooaicsc^^Tt<cDOOo 
l'-oo^uooicocoTt<ooooT^olOTt'OlC^r^^-^TJ^c^l^-.oco^^•-^'-HlC■^^^cOT^o>-HO^ot— csoscooocoi-HNcDC^ 

^^^-■-'o--*^^o^'^^*cocld^-^'-*odc^lOcoTJ^c^ioio'oiooo6^-^o6oco^ 

-H  n  n  rf  ^  L'T  1-1  o  <N  00 o  o  i-H  io  c^  CN  CO  o  a>  CN  c -■    ■■ *■ ' 

-H  r-l  CO--'         T-H 


CO.— (r-.OfMCSOCOcp>OC5CO— 'C^lO-^OOfO^OO'^Oiai 


C0mOt-OC0l--O'— 'Ot—— 'CiI 


3  -H  O  iO  O  1-1       ^ 


oicococscoOTr^oot--oc^iooooai-^icc^t--Orpc^oo>oo'OooccoTrioi— ioooo<cit— oOQOOOGOcoio-^ 


W  (TJ  O  OC  t-  C 


,-H  rj-  -^  CO  CO  I-  '-I  t--  ^'  O  - 


3— ^I—  lO-rt^^-r-C^COuOGO— 'i— 'CD'^iOO-'t-' 


'OO>00iQ0GCOTf(Ni0C0I 


*OiOQO(M'-«OG»OOCOO 


-  CO  30  C^  t-  »0  »0  C 


--■OOCJCOOO'-^COiOTfOOOO*OOCOOCSTfOO(N(NOCOtOCOt-»0 


li-iC^CS        Olt^CSCOr-i 


^(NCO'-f^        CS  T-H  T 


lOOCOOOOh-C^OOOSCOO-- "T:+<(NOOOOGCC^iCQOa300COOOOOCOCOCOO<NC 


5C03:OC^ai'-"tD:DQOTt*01l--'^CO 


,,.-C^O'—  •— '■rJ'OiOC^It—  COTt-t-^t-CSO-— 'QOOOCOOOCCOr-HO'GO^-OOCOCOt•^C^t-«'— 'CNiOCNJOiCOr^OCOOSCO 

oc-3r--ri400:cooc^^t-c«'rrcocooc^ocriC4ascoc^ioOTrOC^(X'GC'rt'CTi-!i*cooro^GCo-HO'^0"*'^ 
i-CTfrCo'^c^'cr(©«-rTp'*a^o"'^orp*i-<"coc^'o'cj^ 

^COi-'CO»CCO'-i        rHC^GO'-'fMCO        M        ClCS-HOO»O--H'rp(>iC0.-«OTj^-H<N-HQ0iC        '©--^•-tCOOiOOOi        OCSC^-^t-CO 
i-H.— I,— t  ,-hC4^htJ<  lO  10  t—  CO-— '04-^ 


COOOOiOi^--iOSCOCSCOI:-Tj«(NuOOcDC 


HC0-^C^--'»nC0(M00C0iO«0OO'— 'COt— OO1— lO5W0C<IC^C^'— IC^COCOOC 


r'OscocoTt*'— 'oct-i^':Dc»c^Ti'r^oc^oooiocoo:a^t-cy:c*3  0cO'-Ht-.OM^i-(coooooGOT^r^c^coc^oou:ic^OiOc 
J»oi-^i:Dop-^'coopoGicr^O*Q'^?o^^'^-y^''^ooc»'^ 


-  (M  lO  ^  r- 1  C 


3  CO  -^  CO  CO  ' 


j.-iiO»C-^cO^OC^'^''f'OTj' 


^»Ot--cc— "CSQCCCC^O-^OOC^lOSOiOiOl-^t't—  COCDrOiOCOCiO-^--icocOC^^'-«l>.0^'— 'O^I>*COCRC^I';OU^  T3 

»o«oc^coc*5C^--ocDO-— '^or-^c^xoooiOOi— 'C'iccot— cocO'-'iooOTrQcourics-— '^-.l>.oc»o^^l•rro■»^^-^  ^ 


f-t(0?C010iCO»00'— 'COO1— 'GC'^C^t-CDOC^CD'O'^r-C^i-tCJOOt--'— *«3iOC1^000>— 'sOr-iO' 


>ooiC'Dixcsa>ot 


NCOCOiOPO'-'COrJ'CMCO'-iCO'^J'TP 


Wr-COCO'-'iOCDOOCOCOC^'-'  OOO  OOt-^iOrHt^-Ot-'MGO'— '"^C0»O'-i>— ICOOOOO 


C^  C^  CO  C:; 'N  tP  Tt- 10  C^  rf  tP  (N  CO        C6  CjD 


!  --H  r^  CO  CD         --H  ' 


Mt'.iX'tOCD'— 'TPC^^t-COOC^lC^OOOu^OiOOt—  t-.^COOSCO'^O'-HO-HC^asO'— 'lOO-— 'O0i"<*<C^OC0'— 'COr^'O'-^ 


I—  OOiOcCC^GOGO-^Tt^O'^ 


joic^t-wcsr-^cNooocoai-rrcoai'-'OocDi 


3  o  <— '  r-  --  *o 


OOlTPOOC^CSiO-^r-OOCO'— '        -^tPcOtPOIOI—  "^OCOCDCOOi'-''^»OOt-.OO^OC^COiC-^COO'a5C-lCDC^O'-'C^Oa3 

r  ^  lO  oT  O  CD  O  CD  o"  CD  O --H  CD  CO  O  •-"' O  r-7  C^  CO  CS  00  lO 


OT-ic^-^r-^oi'McO'-'^^': 


CO        OiO»OOTj'C^OiiO'-'C 
CNC^(N00<-''^r'-iiOCS^ 


^  ^  I— <  CO        Oi  C 


CO  C5  O        O  CO  CD  CO  00  c^ 


)oo^'-«u:)-^'^ooooowcoOI^Oi^Tt'»oc^lTt*ascDa>oa>wt--cooc^Tt'Olooco'^co^-•<**•-'Tt^lOOcocs^-^^cocooc^o 


00  *C  CO  CO  »o  o  c 

or-.-<OioO'— 'C^-^t-iO' 


3  10  CmM  CO  "T^  Tj< 


TfOOCl-^OOC^OiOOcDOOC»'(fOOOO^COC^ICOCDCOOOOSt-aiCDr-l:-OOCO^-HWOa>CO 


t-ClCDOO^Orr't-Ol'— 'Oit— CDi— 'C^-^Tj^OOOiCOC^OOCDt'-CS'— "t— 1— 'CDOir* 


t-  —  ^  ^  Oi  iM  .-( 


T-HIO  1-lC^  .-I  ^  r 


1COC0CD01  ■-•■-'        OCO        r-t        lOiO 


c^cocOTt^uD      Oi  r- -^  c<)  Tt<  t- 

^  —I  r-l  CM 


;OiCt^^uOO<NuOc>0--*i: 


*-*  00  CO  c^  -^ 


lOcO'-'OKNCO^QOOOCCCJ 
■•"^CDOOOOt^OiOiOTfOOO .  _.      - 

tcDi-ooOl— 'C5"rpooa>i-c^cDoooo5-^3ic^aic^i 


C0'^iO00t>.CO0000iO— 'OOCDC^--''-<h-' 


osciicoco'^cDO'-'C^oiai'— 'OcDoooot^OiOiOTt-oooooiO:!!:^-— •cDi---'— 'Tr*r--co'NOcNcoooaiO-^'^ 


Tj'C^COOCDC^lCOCD'^'^S 


COt-r-'CDX"^C^OCOt-OC')a>Oi'Tf>OCO'^^'N»OcDiOCOCSr 


C0'jhCM-<J<(NiOCSi-<r-iTj^l-^C^CN*O 


3QOiC-Ot--CDCO"^0--^QO^OCOTfOO»CcDC^-J*00<NOOtO 


TfiOOOC^aiCDOTf-^1— '00>COO'-«r*'-''-»'-«C^'-<t-CDCOCOUD         •— ii^SOOOCDOO 


(N  CO  ^        10  ^ 


— t  00        i-" 


.-(  CD  1—1  CO  rH  1 


OCO.-<"^OS.-Hr-OOOCO»OOiOOUD--«--HOO'^iOcD»OOiOi— lOOcDC^O^O'NOO'— 'OsOiOCOiOOOCD^OOOO"— icooocooo-^ 

ot^cMcDcDC^'->oc^oc^iOt-oc^ocDOai--'OOcoooc»r^c^r^ot--cJ5»coaj'OOOcocooooo'Ocr)io-HC^GO^cn)CD 

OOO'Ci-i'^OOt— -^C^C^ICOOOOOC^O-— '--HTj^iOC^OOi— 'C'lr-^OSt— OOCDC^l-TfuDOiOOO'-'OOOO-^C^CS'^iO'^C^-^^CO 


or-io.-icct-^t-oO'^coiCGCco; 
icooo-— 't— OcorHiciococ^w:)'— ■• 
r- 00  «-"  ^  (N  .-I  ^  —.      r-. --. 


)0>— 'coTt-osoit— lor-c 


SOCDC-lCSO'TflO'— 'COO-— »         1— 'C 
CN  *0  O  ^  O  "  ^         ~ 


■^oci'^Tfr-.coO"^c^c^coico:cocDt—  oooococi-— -r-^TtH 


OCJOt-^'-'OOOOO        OCO-^rOCSt— 
-■  --        O  "^  CD        -H  (M 


=  000000000  00000000000  too  oc 


JOOOOOO^OOOOOOOOOOOOtCiOwcaoO 
Ot-OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOcDOOOOOr-OOOOOOOOOOiOOOOiOOOOOOOOOCOOOiTj-O 

^9Q  ^'^^^'^"^"^'^o  •-^'lo  o  CO  ic  o  i-TtjTo'o  o  o  uo  00  o  o  lO 

x^  r^  .^  ^•,  ^  ^  ^•.  ^  ^•.  ,^  .^  ^^  ^  ^        ^        .-.^Oi—CO!Mr-iO''*<— »   O^    Ci   <NOS   OC^^t'-OCOO'^   O-^^^OCS--' 


?2S<^'^^'^'=^o^^'^'=^^^^'=^^ooor-ooc 


■  CS  r-t  C^  kO  lO  CM  CO 


c^«■^lCcD^-coosO♦HNcOT(;»po^-ooo>0•--c^coTJ«uDco^--oooso^c^co■^ 

^,-H.— .,— «,-H-H-H,-iCMC^C^C^CMC^CMC^CMCMC0C0C0C0C0C0C0C0C0C0-^"<J*T}<T}<Tt<TT<'^TlH"rfTt*iOiOiO*O*OiO*OU^ 


3110 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


,"3  >-'  >  •  ^ 


c/VCU^R.-.—   poiOj, 


O  O)  ^  o  g  o 


5  c' 


cc  CO  cc  c  ft;  r^     i  ic  r^  ^  C5s  ^ '^j- cc     i  <n  cc  gc  gc  cc  o  x  ro  co  o  o  o  o  c> 


icoic'-fosoooooeooo 


•g  g  CD 


O'-HOt0CDOC0OOrH'^iC-^»r>t>-'-        --., ,._-,  __._ 


_       _. ^■^e^oiio-^cDosiO'^t-Ht^cO'^ 


t^rf'^<NO-^r-.r-.*ciCTrcio*o»OiOC^^?Dioo      loio' 


O  Tf-  ^  IM  CC  .-H  - 


'   .-I  (N  (M   r-«   ^ 


„  rH   ^  (>*   CO 


ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo 


&8S 


o  o  o  o  o  o  c 


;oooooooooooooooooooo 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOC^iOOOCvlOOOOOt 


^  "  8  ^'^  ><^"q^^ 


^.      .      .      -_      „._  .         -■''tjiO^-VOCSCDOIO'-'OGCiO'-tOO 


■'  CS  00  CO  cc  c 


'Ttii;CcC--iCS(MC^CS-^(Ni-HCSIcOCD"CSCS'-H^ 


P-,      .1:1  cq'C^  ^ 


COt^^O-^CJl^iCOCCiOC 


>Oi'^"**'coc^r^cO'~*aj(0-^Tfaooooo*o 


•^COOirCt-QOOcCOO'-H-rt— Ol'^J'IM-^i— lO-— 'Ot"--^01CSIC000C3C4CD 


c:r^Tj"Goai— 'ocr^- 


'"Tt-iCOOOlOGOOlCO-^CCCCfMr^CCOl^Ht^-t^ 


cco<o-^io--"icc3oasiot^*or^OiOoor^c<»cDo:iooc^ao":)i-Hcoc^o»-t 


CCC^TftNOCOC-^OOl-^OOCOr 


30r^ir^cooir^Oiiococ^ioos(MC^- 


CLi-r:  8.S  S 


CCOO»00»OOWC<l»r3C»00»OCM(N<NCOOOOOsCN|5005CDCCt^OiOC3S»0 

05"^CM«:i>o-<TCO*ocCTfoa-^<ocsc^co"^c*^ooco<-^c^»0'^^-<'^ccrHCS 


c.92h  - 


■— iC^CC^CO-— '^HcOCCOO»0«Ci00010Tl"tOCCt^iCC^cCiOasOCD.-.^ 


O  CC  tC  y^'  cc  ■ 


•  <M«:>»CC^JOO(N'C»000(NCDCCOOCT)OiOOOC^ 


'^ocM'^'OCN  —  l:Do■^cooo»ccs(^^OTpo^coco<^^'^^--to^•' 


t,  ^  ^  c,i  -^  c^       ^  CO  CM  i-H  50 


00  OOf-'i-'r 


OJ   O  OJ  ^      - 


3  lO  00  tN  ^  CO  I 


'Clt^CTiCMOit^t^CMr-OlMiCt^cOOOiMOiO^fN 


'00C0O'*O"'^CCCMC500'<*^(M01C'^I--OOC 


o:'0(M«;cioooa2't--oi 


'  00  o  o  oc  ^  : 


_  _     _^  t--  CO  Oi  —  c 

^  Tf  CM  o  r-  Oi  "*  oo 


.  ^  ,_,  t^  CO  ' 


JCCCMi— (i-'CM—iCMw^rC-' 


Sop  g-J 


locooooiaicDr*'— <iocDeot^'^oooicocMccTpTfaiooos^-oocM»ococ^ 

OC4CMr^OTr'C0»O'^»-(00Tt*Ot--0i"^-^C0C0*0cDCMiOiOr-00'— I05C0 

o  oj  CM  OS  >-'  "^'  Tp  ai  ai  CM  o  TjH  Tt*  ^^  lO  t^  CO  »o  OS  CO*  CM  CM  ^  rp  lo  oi  ^^ 

iCCOCOCOrrCO'^CMCM— "»0»0-^'-»         CMcOCM-rpCM^CMrfiC^COCM'-iCM 


r-t>-ioair^CMcoascor^ooi05oo»cioooocicO'— iThr^-'^.-'cocoooco 


t-  O  «:  CM  — I  CM  CO  C 


i-^OOOO-— 'OlCCOiCDOiiO^HTj-.-HCOt 


'-'030'^GOiO  —  OiOOOuOCOOlCDC^OSiCOOOSOSt^CMCMOO*- 

odi^of'c  o -Tj^TT  05"t^cM"r^.--r«5"co"     oo  »-h  i-h  oocm'co  u^o-^orcood  oo" 
oco      r-.cj'^ccR'-'  r^Oi— '  i-ii-Hi-Hoo  i-H-^      coi— ' 


0100"<*'Cj00iOaiO0:C00iCMTj'O 
tCOO^Q^^CMCJCMi— i030rOI--C^ 

CMCMi^r— oir-cO"^<:ooioc;'^oi 


iCOCMOO^OcOOO«3'-H»OOit^'-HCM 

■  co-^oooiaocDcocMt^r^c^i-— »coo 

iT-^CMiOOCOiOiOOlCOOlt-^COTr 


^  -t<  ^  4C  00  !0  CO  t 
O  C-i         O  I—  »0  00  ' 


lOlCnOltCt^i—CMCOCOC^iC-^tOCD 
I  I^  .-1  CO         CO  "-« 


t— I     O  -4-- 


0003^Oait^-^0:'^'«*<^r^»O00iOCMCOCM00c0iOC0--lC0CO'<*'C0t^^ 


.  t^oco  CO  o  ; 


scoooor^TpiC'^CMOoocMCMr^oocO'-'Oior^ 


00<CCMCMasOOiO»^'-H05a>'**''^OCMOOCOCMcOW3C^r^CO-^iOOOCMI^Oi 

coco      r-r.-rtCtCcM»-H      o  ^ooTi-T     r-Ti-TcM  »o  r-T^     .-rtC-rco^cM''cM  r 


P.001 


CMC^CO-—  OCiOOCOC^-rrOii— tOOiOCMt^iCOi— "CSOOOr^-^COCMCOOlW^ 


CO  ■-'  1-  ^  c 


j '—  CO  CO  r^  o  CO  i 


l-cCCi»Ot^OiOO— «0- 


OCOCM-— 'GOCOCMiOiOCOCMO^-^OOCOCO'— 't--05C0r^O»0C0"^'^CM 


.— 1  iC    Oi  to  00  ' 
CM  CO    CM    ^  CM 


COCOC-^CO^OOOi 


Jt-CMt^COCCOSCOi 


'O-— 'COW^COT-HTfCOOOOOOiOiOOl 


i  Tf  00  CO  CM    TT  CO  ■^  <X3  CO  CM  .-t  CO  »0  Ca  ai -^  tC  CO 


-CCCOt^eOOr--'-<'<t<COOiC<)iCCOOOO"«*^OOCMO 


-I-^-— Ot^C-l-^COOWO-^TPOCOCOL 


1  O  '^  *0  O  ^  OOCM 


Tt^'^ocooi'— •occcr-t-CMO'— 'OOsost^cooocO'— 'O5ooo>ot^osr~- 


5  o;  cji  CO  CO  : 


or^or-CM'^CM.— 'ootoocoooi— <»o 


COC-I         000i^C0C'Jt--C0"3CMCMO^CMt--C000OC0'^C000C0OtOO 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCOOOOO 

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo 

OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCMOOOCMOOCOOOt^O 


^OiOOiOOOOiO^rfOOOOO' 
■to         O  CM  lO  O  O  CM  lOO^OCM 


CM  ^  .—  . 


lo^oooo^oot^ooosw:! 
t"-      ocM'-HcoioO'^otooor^ 


r        co-*'»occr-.ocoso»-«CMco'^>ccDr^oooiO>-<cMcoTpio(or^ooaiO'— I 
w       cccococococDcct-^t^r-r^t^r-t^r^t^r-oooooooooooooooooooooiOS- 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3111 


)00  ■*  •rj'i 
-CD  -H  ^  00» 

H  f-."  ai  o  c5 1^ 

-C*^  t^  O  '^  o 


c6'-Hr^coc^co»ooioi"OcoccoiaicDoo«D'OO^coO'— 'Tt< 


cr-  CO  (N  CO  (N  cv)  r-.  r    , 

OOiO-— '-^COCOO^CO 


CO  00  as  CO  r~  o  oi 

CO  01  CO  Oi  CO  (M  '    ■ 


05,— I— loooococo-^Oir^gj 


3C^C000Os0--HC^00CDaiC0Tt<O'OiOas00QC00C^CS-' 


'-HCDeOTTOOOCOOOC^OOi-^^'-Hi-iiOrj'O'— icOuOOCS':D'^'--''<J''--'OSOTj<COr--'— tOCOr-'^OiOCO 


CO  CO  O  OS  00  (N 
1— 1  O  CO  CO  lO  -^ 


COiMOOiM         -*^uoa!r--^'©COrt<rt*t^--i-rt*TfO'Ml-*|-- 


^  (N  CO  CO  CO  Oi  CO  (N     I    1:0  CO  C 
CO        1-1         ,-.  I    ^ 


•  iooocooc^coo>cc»o 


CO  h-  t--  00  ^  00 
,-H  10  <N  ?l  CO  -^ 


C^.-'COcO'^iOOT^^t^U^-^COt^CO-Hrj^.— ^CD•OTJ^COCDCOfO^*lO■-**lOCO»OCOCOC^M■^^^COC^GO'-HCO»0■^r^ 


COCDOO^C^-— 'Ol'^COOOOldO'COiOsOO 


Tt<OOOOiCOOiOC^'^r-rrO)r-iTj* 


CO  oci  a>  -^  I 


50»0'— 'I^t^OlOll^-— •O'OiOCDt-^t^C 


J  CO  CO  Oi  CI  -rt^  10  CO 


-tOOCOr-iOCOCOCO'-«.-<CCCO'— tCOC0iOG0C»05G0 


CCOTTr-C^M""    cCCOOiiOCOTl*l'-CO»CCOior-aOcOt^COr'.CO"^(M""    COCD(NOit--'-H'^C^i-<--^-^CO'^CDC 


CO  r-.  00  05C 


.-•         I^  TT  CO 


-OOOOtOOOOOOOOOOOiOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOQOOOOOOOO 

^=S'^=r'5i5£.       ■w;-;^-;_____^^,^^,,^,_^^,   ^_,_^,_^,^,_^^_^,^,_,;x;,_,,-^,^,— ,^Q^j^Q^(-j^^^Q^j_j_ 


)OOG0O'^c^ooO"*oOTrc 


ooooooocoo»oaoocoooai>o 


O'^oc^ocoOcoioO'^Tr'co'Oc^co      cocso'-^iooTf'-H'cjH 


'0OOOO(MOr-»COOOO00OC0OOOO00OO<N(M(M 


O'— tOOCOi-tT-HrHF-ICOl. 


O  O  »C'  o  o  o 


caooiC^cococ^^-HcDco»oooocDC^Ocscoco■^oo^'•o^*■^cocoTt^cococD^-•cooc^^*Oir-lcocooooo»ooocococ^.-HO 

0iiOC0C^-^b-OC^aiC0C^0>CviC00ir-r^00C0OC0O-«*<»0CD00OC0O*C0iCSt00l'^»OC0'-Hl'.i— iTj^^OO-— tOl*OrPCDOi'^ 

cdc*^^-^loorcdc^c^'cDo6^-^^^aJc^oc*ioooodocdodc4^-^0'--^oco 

^-,  *,,  «.»►.     -^C0«O0lC0C0C^Tt<C0TfC0NC0CDQ0-<*<'-tC0C0'— 't"-C^C^*^ 


*ocOr-40sooir3---*r^'>ii5cccdcooii^»or--^co'Tt*^co^coc*«f^ioorco 


.-<»oc-i^or-c^t>-oiN'OTf"»o— '•— ' 


DOi(N»OOOt^iCOi— 'COcOCOMcO'^cOO'^C^-^ 


COCOOiCC'^TfCOOOCOOOCO'-tf^O'^COCD'-HiM^C^COOCOaOCOOOO'-'t^OO'-'CO^Of— "Tf"CO 


COCOOC'iCO'^-^CDW^COCOOcO'-' 

ooiMcD'-H-^r^or-CMcD'^coc^^ 


f-HOO-^C^cOOI^OC 

i-H.-HiOfO'— 'CCGOOSt 


,_ _.,,  _,    —     --Ji— 'iCCOOOOit^COOlOO 

'OO-^OiiCOC^-^'— 'C^COCOCSt-r-Ht-OOOCOCOOO'^'-t 
—  ^  rice  N 


^lOcor-oor-c^coi-'t^O'^ooi 


0000500  1^-— <»O'-^'-H^-C0'-'C0C^C^C0cC•«**C0"^C000TJ«OTJ^CDC0C0"^05■^C0OJ— ^OSCOO-— •OC^COt--.'— "OiOr--OiO'-''^  _ 

coO'^iou^c^t^ocococoosooc^Oi'^'— '"^coolcocsoioool^-ooc^^-•-H:Dai"^^-•'— •t--c^'-^Oi»ocO'^ooocot^ooc^  P 

»o.--^o6i-^cociaifoo6c'ioot--^coQOQOcoO'-^ioodio--^'--^c5GO 


oico-^'^'— co'Otj-cO'— ^»o■-^c^co■^ooo■^oo"<^t■-coTras>o^-*^o^^^■^coot- 
^  (Mco  ^-'j* 


I-  lO  t^  »0  C<  CS  05 


c^cocooor-c^oc^'-'O'^co-^'— ''-^t^oooo'^ooco 


COd'-HCOO'Ci'^iCiOSt^CO-^l^C^'O 


)r^O'-*ooooooiaj'* 


OOOiCOC5oOOOCt^O'M-^Olt^'*OOCSt^— I 


r^coi^cor^cooo^ocDO^ooico 

OCSC^OiOC^CSOiOOCSOOcOiOCO 


C^TfCOCl'-Ht^OcOOiOJC 


)— iiO00'O"»*^00C003C^C0iO00"«J'OCCI^O*00lOOiOO-^<M 

>co*ooooicDOioC'^c^»Oi— "C^oocoocor^r-cococ^TfOico 

CO  CO  -— t  C^  1-H  C^  00  1— <  lO  1— I  1-H  .— ( 


coo5C^03t--coio":>OioS'-i'-'.-Hco 

Oi»Ot^cOOlNOGOOOt^iCCOO--l 
CO  CO  i-H  40  CO  GN  <-H  .-(  rH 


■*00(NO00u0t^C^C^C^C<IOTt*CDC'?^HQ0C^TPC000Tt*Tt<O'-*OC0C 

„._._  -- 5oOlr^Ot^'^OOiO(NCOCOTj<*OcO-<*<0^ 

^OOC^OcOOCOCO^HCOOOCO^^OOl'" 


HCOCSC^COd'^^CO'— "C000lr^Ot^'^OOiOC^C0C0Tj«*Oc0-^O»O00C0OC^Ot--»0 


icocoi^i^-*j*o»oCioococO'-«'-^^oi^cocoor^(NaocD 


C0C00S00OC0C005'-<t^r 


JOOiOCSOC^COCOOOiOr-t 


|-^OOOit^^(NCOCO^'^'*-^I^'^COGOCOI--.-HCOCOa5C^ 


CICO-^  00  C^Oa  ^OcC00C^■^OsC^■^cDC»■^0iCDO•^t•-CO^-C0Q0C0Tt^00c0C<l0i^^C^(N00^OOc0uD^>-C0C0C0"^C0•-<t--C^C0■Tt< 


<M»-iiOCOOO'-ir^^CO(M<MO'^C^^'-^eO'-i(Ni-< 


--H^r-»co      TP.-<oO'-Haoco»0'-i'-icO'"4*'*co^ 


^  xr>  Oi  T-i  ^  -rji  ^ 


-OiOOcOOs^^OcocoosOt^' 


<coCTiQCco»oocococ^c^cor--oot--(M»ooor-t^coo5-<J^-^t^r*f-«i^'^i~-c^cDioococo>— I 


o»coc6ooOI•-•lO^-c-^05CsoiOcocico>o^OlcDOiOO■^c^'-Hcoo^^o»oco.--'oooicooo«^co^*aiaiooc^as^:c■c^alO> 

■T»*'^Tpo6'--^coQdcocii^cO"^'GOcd>or^oicooi'-H»cr^»oo6c^coi^ 

-^c^cscoc-i'<rTr'coTf"-^TrrfcocO'-"C^*ccoc^r-(C^      c^c^cococ^*oto*oiO'^'^cO'^'-s*-^'^csco»o>-"Tj«,-<Tf-<j"i—  ^(MC^io 


cO'-Hi^ourj'-'rr'^'^'^cocoai-— 'Ococor^r^oou^oo'Of-HC^O'— |^-ostoc^■^cO'— '■^ooc^Tt<u^i-Hcocot--o;c^ 


CO  O  CO  Oi  00 


*C005C0C0C0^OC0C^C0C0OC00lO-^OCJt--*0i0C0TP 


(NTt^oic^c^r--— «TniOGO(Moa>"^Tf^(MOico 


Ococ^cooocou^'— "r*'^'--''^r~-oiO'-HTt'cO'-'co-^coc^oo^Oi'^coa:iO'-HC')co05cO'«»'cO'-<-— <oc^r^TrcO'-<t^ 
c^^od-^c^'odiococoo'eocoo'oi'cot-^ooi''-^'^'--^'      c^rirrcOQd'-HorTj*'cocococooi-Hco>-Horioco"^*"      oT      oTtccoococo 


■iCSfM^COCOCOlMC^COOSC 


.-H      lo  cs  01 ' 


3  CO --t  I-*  CO  (M  Tf  -»*<  10         C^  O) -^  t-- C^         ^^ 


•^ocS'^OOiCS'-'OOtOTpi-HC^co'^i^rt^cooc^oio-^c^r^cic^oO'— 'Oir^-^»ob-oicD'-Hoor'-'--th-ococorH'^oscocooi 
M»oco^":!t^»ooi*o^rri^ast^oiocorocsc^^cowoitO"*oc^'OOoocooo»ooi^'^c^icococococi"^ooM^coo5TP 

00■^I^0SCDC0C0G0C0OCOTrc00iO0iC^CC•^I^C^'--lTt^WC0W^C*^C0^*»OC0^OO»O»OC0C0•OC0C0^--^C0C0I>•0SC^CS 

roT^-— "cJioododoT     1-H      oootTio  CO  1-H  CO  CO  t^'ioc^'^s^'r^o  c^  oT  CO  »c  00  CO      tf     ^^iQcSo^d^^ 


-CO'^'— 't-^t^'^GO-' 


;  uo  CO  -— t  cs  1--  00  CO 


loec      r-i      lOC^oo^t'-O'MW'-HWc^coco-'i* 


OSO'^  --H         ^  — ' 


■03.— <»CCO»0  04(NCOCOOiCOC<lt^OOcO'— 'C^t— •(McOCOOO'— 'OSiOCOOi 


0":>Ot-^COiOOil:^CO'^-^COCOiM!Nr^O»000'^l~'^OOCDC^'*CO^'*!MCSOCOGOOO'J^OO'* 


-ajcor-OJcocot^-^c^air-coc-iTt*.— ico»or— o 


ico»o^cic^'-ic^^^ioasoaiO'-HCsc^cococ<i-^t^oo»ooO'«rc^ooc^*ooo 
CO  c^'  »o  r-^"  ^  r~r  ci"  i-T  ^^  o  CfT  r-^  --^  r4  c^" 


t^i-H(MiOCO'-'iOC^'— I'rjHCOQOt^ 


(M  CO  CD  ^  CO  CM  00  01  Oi       )J 


C^   r-H   lO  lO  Tj<  CO  1-H  C^   C^  01   -^   t>- 


^*05050COCD^^CDcDcDOOCOCOt^C^Oi"^Oi'— •i-HCOC^ai'— iC0OT^a5OG00i'-'r^--HaJt>-Ot:-'-HC^-rt<t^CCO'^00iO01Oi^ 

■^cc»C'--csio05— 'u^r^Tj^.— lCOOOcDTt•oocooscO"^oo»ooO'-Hloo»oococo^-.o;olCOOO^^•-'"^0'-J'-^'-"■"^ 


.-HC^OiCMGO'-HOS'— 'COiOOO'—''— 'Tf*03*^"<*''^COCOt--Tj<OOCOT--'t--.a500500'-«CD'-*COCOCO'^OSCMCOCO-' 


Tt"  d  lO  lO 


■oooO"«rcot-»ocs'^05iOTt*05r--'— •u^^^cocoo^-.^OTJ*coa50lt^ocococ^cool•-tcO'— <'^CMt---^oi*ot--^oc^ 


O'-Ht^cDoco'^oor-.TfTpascooi^c^ooc^cO' 


CO  CO  (N  O        O  ■<J' t^  <M  CD  CM  00  (M  CO  CO  CO  Oi  O  t^        CO         r-i  cO  0>  CO  ^  CO  CO 


QOOCM1— <COCO^— i^-HOi-^CDOl^Xi'— 'CO--CMOSOOO— 'OsOOOCOOOCOM^Tp-^OCMO-^COr^COO'—l-'^ 
/^li-ri^fr^rr^ry^-v^rr^oO-H^OOCCtOCMiO'-'GCOlOOOMiCOOOCMiOOQOTPCMOC^IOCOTt'COiOOOt--'— ■^^u'. 
.00-^CMO>OOClC^CC05'-^000»OCMO^OCOCMCO»0'<**OOcOO<N^OCOOC005COCOCD'<*"t-- 


O  O  CD  01  M 


.  t^  GO  -— '  GO  ■^  I 


-OOTjiCMCMi-tCOOSOC 


iCCMCCC^OOCO-— •Oir~»0'-- 'Tt'iOCD'^Oit^iOt^t^COCDt^'^COCOCSCMh-OiCCD-^iO 


1— •OiOcO'^TrCM'— '00tO40CM00Tt<OC0'-^t--Ot^'-<iO>— 'W^^         tJ<i-hcO        COt--OOCM»OOOCMC 
CDCS^H-rt*-*-^  CO'^*^'-'  '-'  coo-— '  .-.CM'-H*-* 


Oi        00 -^  O  CD  CM  CM  »0  CM  CO 


OOOOiOOOOOOOOOOO»nOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 

gOOOr-OOOOOOOOlOOCMOiOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
t^OOOOO'COOOO^OOcOO'tj-OOOOOtOO'-HOOOOOCOOCOOO 

-o  CMOOodoo'»oo*tococ^^^c*ool'lo'tOlo*c5ooocs"o^-^ 


Ot^OC^CSCOOCMiOCMTf-rf^i— .4CCMCO         C0C-l»0'-^OOOr 


C^l  O  'D  CM  O 


300  000  O 
. 5000000 

lOicooaso'oooooooo 
r  o  o  co'  cm'  cf  lO'  o  cs  »o  o  o 


■  --H  C^l  »0  GO         ■-• 


O  CM  CM  10  CO  C 


01050505010105010000000000- 


-  00  05  O  ^  CM 


^co^•-ooo50'-'CMco■^•oco^-coo50•-'CMco■^»ocDt^ooa50— 'CMco-rjiuoor-coaso^cMcO"^ 

SOOOOOOOOOO— <■—'■— '—'-^■— '■—''— '-H—iC^CMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCOCOcOCOr^JCJcjfJC^c^-^^ 

HCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCICMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCICMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMC^ICMCMCMCMCMC 


3112 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


<»      S 


f^  t   ^  ^  rf  ^-i  >   >  S' 

°  ■--  O  SgS  c  c  ^ 

o  a>  jj  '^       "" 

x-c  Id 


11  "  S  s-S'^ 


»»^o'2r= 


"^8 
£0  § 


Q^  ^  ^ 

8-° -9 


O  0)^3 


S'O^'.S 


g  ag-a.S-si^jiSi- 
P-(      .3  t3  t3  *^  " 


a.92'2-- 
Ph-sS.sS 


®  "  n  cs  t:;'-' 


'•oS" 


.9  2  -O  R  S 
11  o  »  "  .,- 


-=^  a> 


S  O  O  H;;; 


5§ 


o  as  h-  r3  c-1  cc  GC  c^  c 


-— I -Ti      <£:  CO  cc  t^  ■*  CO  1:0  ^ 


000  OS'M  -^ 


■^  Oi  t-  O  O  00 

tP  (C  01  GO  iC  C^ 

C^  CC  <X5        CO 


ccC3a>ooc<Jr^ooooco^co«5co 

'*OiOOOC^:CGCOCiOOicOO<-' 


^  00  M  b-  - 


<  (M  00  --H  (N  O  -^  10 


(MC:Oi.-.C^        .-<t-« 


_  _  _  ^OcOir^Oit^OOGOCOC^r- 

:o-^cooo>ociOicoooi— ooo'^"^cD-+'ro«ooc-    ' 


'^t^cofocr>cO(3iOOGOr-.a)CN05t^c^i-^^ 

01  c-i  i-^  -o  «o  r^  CO  o  o  "<*^  CO  00  >o  0  01  CO  00  t .  —  _v  -  -  _i  -  _  *^ 

.-HCD"^<Nt-OaJO-*OOt^i:D>OC^O-^GCiOi— <-^oor--Ooou^coc*4 


CO  •*  '-«  05  <-«  -^  coo  -^  CO  lO  C 
f^^         CD    ^  1-t  O  O  CO  X" 


10  >— I    rt^  r-(  C^  00  Oi    •-«  t>.  CO  r- ' 


00000000000 
00000000000 
ooooooooc^ooo 


r-CiOOOO'O-'^OOoO 


OOOOOOO-OOOOOOOO 

000000000000000 

OOOOi'^'OOOiOOOOOOO 


iC  '— '  lO  05  CO  »C  lO  • 


.  CO  «-«  o  to 


»ooo*'0'^<©eoooGrcDt^cD-*.-HOC<jcDr^TPC^oicoco05CS^co^os 

C^fCOCOUOr-tT-HiOC-JiOoOcDOiOC^Tt^QO'— <0000'^OSOO(NOOC^aO"^ 

>  (^  ic  -H  t-^  CO  "^  'O  ^  c*i  od  o  lo  t " 

">M  C"  ■   —  ■■ "• 


COt^TpTlH05CD-^"6-;T--:j5' 
iCCOMtNi-KNOir^OlcCI 


.COTfC-»'-i(M--^'-'COCOMCOI^CO-<J*TrcO"<**C^ 


r-oooor'-OiooO'^— ''Oroi—  t^-^ooio 
ost-oooo»ooocor-i^c^icO'^c-i-<** 


r-r^oioocooooiooooo-- '■^c 


>— «':C'»*'0'£3'*OiO'— 'WOO 

oor-rj-— <coxt--n"'^o;^ 


OOiOiCcOCDCOI>-tNOOi»OCO 

C^CNCN(NC0l:^C0C0!CO»0'^ 

COi-t        ^  <N  CO        O 


sO'Ocooc^oic^cooooocsc^O'^oO'— •y^'-or-'X'Oooooxi'— '"^"y^ 


'  O  Ci  »0  fN  C^  C 


O-^O-— ••^CSOiCO»OiOCOI-^l^t'-:DO'"X)t'-r-(00 


OOTfOOCSO00Ot^:0C^'-»O0000 
iTlOi-^iOt^f^^COCDCOiMuO-HOOO'^ 

cDoi'-^Oi-oodoor-^OO— «(N:oixJo6io 
co-^Ocococ^oii— 'oo-^c^oooco-^^c 

^  ri  ^  rj<  lO  00  C*^         t-H  o  ■-< 


coo'^i^oooo^Hr^oo'^t^i~- 

O^C^I----- '■^*^'*Ot--CO'— 'T 

CO'^t^cicOOOcd^CO*'-HCD 
CO-^OOOOOSOOSCSOi— hO 
»J0  CS         CO  Tf  t^  ^  CO -H 


'rt<L-:iTj«(Ncoo"*oo^-"^r^<N'-'OiC^ot^O'*0'Miooo»0'-t— i'-;cD 
i>'OoOTrTj*ciTticou^r^r*ooOoocoof^coo5r--^c^QCsr^cor--gr-- 

OOO-— liC-^Tf'-HiOCOCOt—OOCDi-t'-lOOOOO'JOCOOOOC^^CO'^OOCO 

-— 'f^ti^Oir-icOi-^'^QOCOOCOC^COC^t--        Ot^COC^OCOOOCO'^'OOi^- 
^  W         — .         C^  ,-H  ^         ^  CO— I 


■^-^O-^h-fMOr^OO- 

-^r^Oio--:j^OTj<i:DGOOC 


<'*<c^o--:coooi»o02Cr--oocoo';c— "CO 

lOif-tOO^OCOCOO-^COt-^OCDC-JCOiOt-CO 


^O— '01>J0iC^OC0i0OX0SC0iC 


O^CcOcO'-iCOiCiCCOTj'iOC 


iich-c»ioo30or^0' 


,_,-tr.— «.— iTjHTt*io-«r'0"<*^iciQC^-^co 


C0O'-*O'Mr-"^'M0000r0iO'— '■^C^OO-^iCO'rsC'lOO'MCOCO'^t^- 
OS  ■^  to  CO  Tf  !:0'CD  Oi'^0«Or^'X5-^OOOOSC3>OCSC^'— 'O-lOOCSOl-'fO 
./>j  CO-CO-O  C<IOO>CC000aS'^00OC0(MC^^i0^^^100OC0Or-<r^C0 


00,—,.— (r>.rj*-rt<c^'-Hh-oooo-^cocoa3T— ii-oior-'— <oc^00':Da:':?i'--ioi 


—toocooo      t-c^ococooc^ic^ 


r-t  10  iM  CO  t 


uooooocooi^t 


^coo^or-t^O'-Hco* 


-  Ci  00  ijO  o  '00  10  • 


Tj^cor-coc^oooco-— 'a5ic-Hioococ^Oi"rr<c^t--cor>.— 'OO--.       _    . 
1— icooor^'— tcNi^c^oc^oiO'-''OOicoocoooosr-iooc^ooioD'' 


I^t^cDiOCOiO^CCXNOOCOaO^:!^!' 

-H  r*  c^  t-      o  <N  00  CO  cs  00 --H  c^  „ 


C^  -H 


00*001h-'^COTPOiOiCGO 
1— iii5C^MtOOiO-^rr.-«X 


OOOCOOO<-*t^r^COCOO»OOGC»OC^«OcOC^OCiCOOOtOCSiO.— <COiM 
-rt'  O  I^  O  '  -  '  —  —   -  - "  — -  -^^  ^  ^.  *^.  ». 

—I  CO  Tp  C^  ' 


-.--...-^oo-HiccoX'-t^r-r-oO'^oa'^cc^aoc,  — 
..— "cocoiocoor^cocooo'Oc^oo-^-^c^"^'— •oc^oS'-' 


h-OiOC-liOt-^00C'lt--iO20C 


5  lO  ■— I  '-'  O  — I  lO  ■- 


' '-'  00  r^"*  r 


CD»OC0t--0000OCNOCi0C^CCO05rf*t^a0C000C^CDTf(M-^i 
*1— irJ40t^'*'^I>-CT)--tCOCNOiOTt*CO<N'"^-^t^t^C ~   '■ 


H  CD  -^  CO  lO  0 


CD  Oi  1— '  OS  >-*  ' 


*i-hooo— '•-tosTptoai^ocooi'^'— <c 


COT«Ot^C^'-iTt*'*IMr^CD»0'OcOCS<M        .-HCOuOU^COOiTft^OSCOOOC 
■-      ■     -t  C^        <N        »0  ^        CO  CO        T-H  ,-1  CO  C^  ^  !-• 


COOCO-rfCDTfOCO^OOt 


.  C^  t^  ^  C^l 


tOOOO'OaOCSOOCD'—  CMCOO— 't^t-000»Orr'CMOiO»0-HCO(NCDCOTp 

t^cot^"^ooo*oocic:'0'-j''^u0'— I.— «oor    —     ■ " ""^    — -"-« 


lOOOOiOCOO-^O-Mi 
.  CSOiO»0— <COC*4CDCO-. 
CO'-HOSO-^CO-^t^-Ol'^OO 


:ot--ioa5too5oo-Tfco-**0'— '"^ocor-'Tj'-^cooocD'-HfOcooccoc^^D 

50iOOOOOO(N.-<^rt«-HCSOCOCOCDCT5Tt<COTpOO'-HOr^r^CSaiCDOCD 
5-        CMt^        wo        COCO^(N'-i        1-H^CO        CDCS  O^C^  i-h01 


0000000000000000 

8000000000000000 
COOOOOOCMOOOOOOOO 


W  .-H  CS 


000000000000 


000000000000 

TOOCfsOOOOOOO'-' 


C^»  O  O  OC'  O  »0  CD  O  O  O  CD  C-4 


■TfiOcDr^OOOO'— tCSJC0rt<i0cDf-00OO'-<C^CO'^»OCDt"-Q0OiO'— ' 
-t*Tt*rt<"tt<Tt*-^iOub"0>JOiOiOiC^»OiOCDcO<OCOCDCDcOcOCOcDr^t^ 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3113 


O  '^  r^  o  o  -^ 

f-<  Ol  i:D  t^  lO  CD 

CO  cm'  I^  CJ  iC*  1-^ 

OOCC  (N  O  CO  ^ 


1  b- O     ■ --- t^  Oi  Oi --I  O  Tj*  .-I  lO  O 


I  ^  ^    ,o^  ^ 


)  O  C^  cN  00  CO  Oi  t-H 


iCOCO'trcDCC(M(NT}^.-tCD 
'iCiCtMcO(M--i-»i^Tr00-«*' 


lOGOt^OOlCDOl'^DTt^iO 

It^^Cl.-HGO'-Hf-llOrHO 

if-Ir^rocooocooiiaft^ 

"C<»t-OOCOOC^(N'^CO-:P 


CiOCMiO'tj'Cscs'^coooiO'-Htor^ocst 


)O«:Tt*t^h-"<*<OCD00OCN'rt<'*C^CNOr-C0t 


ccoccc^»o— •cj50Cicoococci:cc-ioc5GCGor--co<:DTj<cot7i"^Tfcot--ooiooioaO'^air-t 

--J  (N  CO*  00  --» (N  C 

1-H  r-HOr-t  O)  »■ 


■«O00CD00lr^'^t^C0t^t^C0'rt*»0^         OCD'- 

r-t   ii-HOrt-c^yiJCico      r^^c^»cO'-^co;o      oocor 


ocoocCl00^^^ouoOl--lcocDOlcoc5■^lO(^^Ol^o^-•oo■^■^ocDcr)T-(CD'^(^^oool05C^^^^ 
»-<oo^*o-<*^«o-^cociOcocoocM»ot--iO':otoio-Tj'cDOooOi"*oooO'^'— •■^i^oJn'GOr^oi'^ 

rH^C0r-«^Q0WOCMu^iOO':000CMt^^CSr^OC0Cl-:t*00C0I-^.-<-rt^'^OO(NOOOOr''O 

•Tt^'o  CO  ^"--r-TjrcM'co'cD'crio  co'c^co  CO --H  t^o  ^~^a^^-^  r-T^^co      i-Tw      o'co1-^o^^co 


<  i-i         T-H  ^  _    CN  CO 


_         <C  o:  CO  CM  r 


■^tO        coo        CCI^r-HCS^i— I 


ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooot^oooooooo 

OOOOiOcOOOOOO*-OOOOiOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCOOOOOiOOOO 
»COOiO<Nr-tOOGOOOGCOOO*OOOOCSOOOOOOOCOOC-JOOOOa>000 

oTo  tooo-^*«D  lOO  .-^loo  CO  o  o  o  odoo  cTooo  lO  o 

eOCOCMOOt^T-'CMO        CM»0        O^CMt-OCOO'^Tt*cCCO--(,-i.-iiOTj<        OiO"OOOt^O'-tC^ 

(35  ^  ^  ^  ^  (M  ^  ^  ^  r-H(N 

lo— 'COO-— ioOQOcoocccc»Ot-«r-coo»ocO'— «Oiooo-*s*cDoO'— 'Oicor-cor^cot--oO'— tro 
-^~"  ^  -    -  ~ ^    ^oji-oO'-'OOiooco-^tDcoiocoajoooaioO'— tcocs 


JOiOt^-^l-OOiCOOCOOOC^F 


OCOClOOOO'— '•--iCOG0O'^OiC!O00C?l»Ct»-<01t~-C0i-HG0<£3»nOO"^>0CD0i0lC0iOr->Ot0 

^^cs■^cor-^OlC^^^-^c^cscO'-'CMcocc^-Hc^^cOiOcococC'cOGO'^colOco'^^co■^c^cococscDco-^ 


r-air^c^ooo"Ooor'-cooooocDOoocootor--ococo»o    rcsocoocr^cor^co^ooOL 


r*  o  00  CO  cC'  o  (M  oi  1--  o  r 


DOOOOOt^      iCOOCM'OCO'— ir-it-t-'^COi-HCOCa 


OiOOt^CiOOOiOOOOi— <Or--C005G005"^r-I--'MOit^      iCOt-OiO'-Hi— t!>10o000i00r 


OOCOOS':OCM'-HCOr-.CT!C^^'*C-lfN-<^CO'-*'MC 


sootp     lcocor-loai^o^-cs■T^^coc^i 


,-t  ^-t':o 


■^t^uocMoooNo^i-Hcot^oiOTt-asos^Mocnasco-^ocDQO^ooicr^ict-oiMocicoo 

0'^CDi-i05C^CDTr'«>— lOC^CiCO'-HiOOCOaiCOCOCOOOOCMcDOiCOCMCOOO-^OaiOOOOiO 

^^■^'^-^co'cM'td■*^'QdcDoioodlOcolOco'o6lc'cdco'oo'coocoocotDOcoc^ 

lOcOCit^C^'— 'W'-'C^coiOC^CS(£:';OCSTf*OOI--OC^iCOCi-*0!:DcO'^0-^r^^CO'-»iOQO 


o>"^a5iO'^(Nt^oC'JcocDcot^h-Tf<05'-<ooooor^ait^    icDCMiooioor-«Tf^i-«ooo5cor--M 

t^CSCiOSO'O'^'^C^'-HOOTj^OOCDTfiOOOOtOCCiO'O      iiOrJ^t^cc^CMCO'XJiOCOasOO'M 


os'^Ot^r^Oiioooc 


Oi-^COfMCOT-tcOf-Hi-HCOCDCOCOfCXlDC 


--^■^OOiCOOOOl'-HOifNOiO      i^CNtN^CDC^TfCO'-tCCCScO'^'^ 


CDCDi-HOOO      iI^-<i<CD0>C0^'«t*C000O'*»OOO 


-^y-i       T-»N 


^  5^^^  (M  rH  C^i-tr-t 


o^*^^»n:D^»co^--cr'OaiO<cc^a50ao•^c<^■^CMC^cooocNOO^oo^-0'+*'^J^-•locscDco 


-lor-CTi'— (Oco^ 

OCDI-0005>oa:OiOI 


■^(MOCDCOOi'^t-Oir 


Tfi^ccO'-nr-cocoo'^r— '^'— ''O 


"  '30  o  o  r-  00  o  I 


CO  t~-  OS  CO  o  c 


iOTt^C-10(M(Nr^»0»Ot^r-tcOt-^^OcOt^O>0-rt^iO.-tCOOOCOcOOO-' 
OSOi<MCCC<l  r-i  CO        O        CS  t^  T^  CO  <-i  t^  O  i^O  CS  t^  CM        00        ^  C 


S  CI  (M  O  00  O  CD  O  en  'C 


t~*Tt<OiCJ>h^O'-Hi:ocMoOr-Hi^c^roaicocot-^<r5u^coO"^or-GO'— icocMO^Jii^o-— '^cD 


lCCOTPTt<  ,-1 


1  C^  CO  1-t  <N  rt*  ' 


■^r-fCit^cOCOOl'^OlCO'— "cOt^OOd? 

H  t^  id  .-H  CD  ■^'  t-^  o  •-<  oi  CJi'  --H  rt<"  00  ■^'  '^  00  r-^  co'  ^  cJ  o  ao 

ICOTfiO-^^-^-^rHTfi— «»CTri— l*CTt^CO-^"^COTPrjHrJi 


CO'-*'-iOl'^iOT}<TfCMOt^cDOi'— <0i0lOOOa0iO"^rfC^Tj<c-lOiOCM!>-t^^00OCscDc-^t~- 

,-4cocoo<©coooocoo.-HOOco(NoOh-r--(N*oco!>i'-it^cM-t-oocM-ia*r^coioiOT^-^coooco 
0'-Hicc^Tt<cMcO'^i-Hr^ocoo-^ooooocS"*c<iaioO'^o»oioc^Tf*coO'— <'^t---Tt<cDr-ooo 

«o  o  c^co  lo      i-Tc^^c^'o      t^odiOodOGOCDt-^Ol""^'"cD~*--rcO       »oar.-Hcfc^*'^c;j"c4"co7Hc/Ttf 


Hioo^r-i(:c>-t      00      c-ii-H 


CO  OS  •— '  !D  lO  C^ 


O  1^  --^  00  00  O)  CO 


^cJi'or^O'Mcoci'Oco'^d'— (to— loo'^t^'oaiCDoO'— '"^icocDr^-^o 


^ocMoo^-•lOTJ^c^cDcOl-Hr^OI■-•■^t^^oc^^-oor-lcoooasCMQOoa5oo^-<^■coolOai^^oo'^^ao 
-Tj^coocoo      oo-^oocoOi-'GOoot^t^t-r^-^i-'co(NQOiO'-HcoO'X)a:"^or^(Mf©r-cr-ccoj 


Oi-H  r^OS'^ 


T-HOOCSCD         lOCOcOCOOiCOCDCOOOO-^         CO         t— t-         »Or-iOCO'^'-tiOI>-(N 


00-*i<0'-i<£)CD^OSt-*t~*(M05CT)OS«50iOh-CDO'*Cr3CO-* 


MCOcDaiCDOCOOCOOiOOl-* 


(DOOCOOOOOO-— 'OiTPTt^OSCCOOiOCOrPOiCO-^OCOfM-^COcOCOCOCDOOOOiCSt^Oli-.      . 

ooo-^oo^r— iTt*ocM'^os'-Ht--»oc^<-H.-iTt*c5-- "Oioioiceod'OOco'CcDcD-^i^oot^oo 


<D  00  1-1  CO --I 


i-HTj'r-KN.-tTj'OlTrT-irt'i-H 


CD  tP        OS  I> -— I  »C  tO  1— 1 


CCOOOO'^OCSh--^aOcOCD!:DiCCOGOL 


00  CO  -^  CO  o  > 


'CN'Mh-CDr-OcDCMCDO'M-^OOOOr^'^OOC 


-(M(Mto^oo-*^r^r^-t*oocor^fMoct^<-'C^OCMCS=Dr 


J— 't--OC^CDCM:OCOCO'— 'lOTt^CSOOSOiO-— '•-^Oai'— 'tM'-« 


■^lOOCOCOOO^'^COOSC 


*-|■TJ^ioco^--cooooo^-os— •cOTt<0"^c^oooo(N(Niocooosr---*'-^cot^-^Tt'cD'— (cocM-— iCMo 


I-"   CM    Tf    —    CM 


D  CO  ■^  CM  CM  OJ  CM --^  CO -^         CO        ^ '^         ^  rf*  .-H  QO  >-<  rP  lO  CO  O 


lOOb-ocoocoOioor^io— ioocooo^c^coaO":>'tt<o-^GOoo--HTt<— tr^iocMcoh-cMoio 


5»Or--O^OaiOOCMOiOiOOOOO«DcOh---'COi-«C 


r^ocooocDoooooc 

'^  CM*  CD  rtT  OT  — r  CD  o  r-^  i 


•lOOOCMCMOOCOiOiOC-loOcOCMTPoOO-^i 


irDCSTj^oOC^-^iOTf 
)  t^  CD  CO  O  t-  CM  -^  lO 


-    ,-_     -,    _-.    . ,       —  ..,,     f-<t-COOlOt^'-HCDr^CO'^OSOlO"*"OCOCOCO-^»OCDCO'^--tO 

CCCO'^iC— H         COOr-CMO         COOtOt-COOSO'tDCD'-Hl—         r-— iCOCDCMiCOCOt'-iiOi— iCOCOiO 


COOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
OOOOiOtOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
OSOOtCCM— lOOOOOOCDOOOCMOOOCDOOO 

u^Ou^OOtJ^'cOiCO— Tu^'OCm'oOOOIOOO'OO'OO 
OCDCMOOr-1— iCMO        C^iO        OUitOl-'CDCOOt— ■^CDiO 


lOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
'OOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
lOOOCOOOOOOOOOOO 

I  o"o"o"r^ro"o'o"o"o  o"oo"cM*"o■ 
■    -"iC*        OO'COOOCD.-HiO 
r-1  CM  — t  r-.CM  r-l 


CMC0-<^iOCDh-G00SO^CMC0'»*<iOCDt^0001Oi-<CMC0'^L'::C0r--00aJO--HCMC0'^»0CDI:^000S 

^,r--r^t^r^r'-r^t^ooooooooooooooooooQCOiaiosaiOsoso50iososoooociiooooo 

CMCMCMC^CM(NCMCMCMCMCMCMCJCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMC)CMCMCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCO 


3114 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


00w*'M00(MO'^*0C0O---C*)-<**O'M00ai»OOt^t 


:s    5 


500O«3^'O-:rt— -^OS-^M'^OCfiiOCOiO^NC 


cc  O  cr»  1-"  »c  c 


H  o  O  ^  t^  t^  '^j"  <: 


C0'-'O'^0J'-tC0t0C0iC--^< 


^OOOOOO— '.-H00--O00(NC^(>»000000C5C>OOi>I^-^00-HCN-^(NC^(M000'-:; 


.-.-.-...    .    .    - t^  t^  r-  t^  t 


3tO'0»OiO»0'CtOO*OOiO»OiO* 


5coco<:D— "'-■>— ^cCl—^^0':o—"(^^^^ccc^'^^c■^c^1—■c 


O  lO  CO  lO  — .  -^  03  Ol  O  lO  O  lO  C^  Tl  Ol  t-  CO 


C^CS^<NC^CS^<0O.-H^.-.^C^»-H 


5^^ 


rt  fl3  ^  <jj 


03  * 

>> 

/^  i:  o  ai 

^-?53c3 


«2£ 


:s^«s3-^.^- 


>> 


SliiiliKl«iii^iiii3llii|IIi 

ptldiCiHlSQWOQ-aiCjmCLcPOaiE-iOtsOnUi-lfflOOiJpHti 


03     - 
0-1  J<! 

5  a;  o 

I5z 


T£°a 


o 


io 


5|5dioo5j§g^ 


2_0-2=s—       3o^x: 

c5gS£55|55i| 

a  -s  (^  oj  t-  CO  ^  «  c  ■?  * 
o  fe  ai,2  ffl  o—  c3  o  £.t; 

1^  00  Oi  O  ^'  C^l  CO  ■«^'  »0  CO 


-Qt-Jam-gfe 
g^^l^gos 

Og-Sg(J^  o 


O  ^  C  o 

o 


0.5-3  °  o 
R  coOo 
=  ^"^  a- 


■no 


Wc«oo<;h6- 
«gSo^^5-3  J 


'5«g3 

.=*  o  a  "p 

?<i5 


« -3: 0  f*  •«:  'S 


-  a  ffl^f 

o)  y  I-  ^^  ^c 
c52  ©"o " 


;    C    Or 

'>5  c 
;<  3 


d 

>, 

U 

a 

« 

1 

0 

0 

«3 

d 

0 

c 
C 

bi 

0        bU 

^O-So 

^ 

0  ! 

; 

i^^5=^«2 

■0 

Hit 

"o 

ii 

gc 

^1 

=:  S—  c  g 
S  n  i  oJ•- 
c  g  a  o 
S  c  3  'C  n 

o,^  o  a;  3 
O^OE< 


3*3  3 

'*UOh 

^03  4< 

-^  3  — 

:5  oW 

a> 


GOOiO'-'C^co-^»0':or-xaiO'— 'C^icoTr»o:ot-ooa)0'-<csco-^»otor-^QOaio-HC^co-^*o:Dr^ooo5 


aiOiCnOOOOOOOOOO' 


^CSiMC^C^ICMC^C^C^C^C^CCCOCOrO^OCOcOcOCOCO 


_c3  J3 


*0  O  lO  *0  »0  lO  * 

I '.  t^  t^  r-  t-  1^  r 


P^. 


S— o  _— 3S~  t. 'rl'^'S   .'£'^    .3^      in  .»5  ^■^  5f  o<<  o)  ^  5  o  o  c 
-S^§>^>-^3^    r-o-S  ®    ro3£    -  -2m3    r.S  E    r-oS^ctiti 


03   O  >>Q 


^  »^  a  o-   . 


OP  en  j-i  "  -r- 


'Sa-; 


2-  -j£  C  !1<  3 

><  >  03  >  '-2  .y  .2  'E  .|j  c  >  —  j=  ''  S  .2  -^  ^ 
^iJaSS^2o,22  5£'3's2£ 


2"?  • 


o,2;oofcivjpqfL(f^oPL,fiHno(i,-<ooe;S_jZ2;mpq;z;pHOomooooMufi,&^ci,Mt'PO 


gdS 
gg.s 

•30P3  =    ,_,  o 

—  w  .-3  S  —  «^  ° 

>^  S  o  p       «  c 

1*  ^  3  t-  a^  — "S 
J=  J=  -S  03  £  o  •- 


°  >-  a  o 

Og03O 


o 


o 

o  a> 

o(^ 


^o 


.3„^=»)_: 


a  o  o 

3  30 


o 

,■30 

00  a), 

■3 'So 
3  3-: 


3<5  o 

fe  .^  O  [J 

o  3  ^  3 
Sill 

C3    cd   O   03 


M.y-^oS   ;aoo-.o 

3-S  c--:3 

gSigg^^'^g^|^°2o 

c^  a,  o  o  S"  "■*  Ori3:3  _r 

0'^£Ofl,£-^3Cr"g3^5gO 

L     M  -  r      03  ■-   "  ^  jr  ►  ^^   O  .3   ,    li<   3   3 

o  g s S  c.«  s  °  s  §  s •§ S  g -=  ar-i;  s  § 

t.  O  ^  jl^  —  O  -3  .    \3  t-J3^  1,-5  a£*-.£;  o 

00<5,^-^oe^?^fHO^OfqOHhJtj£-'0 


°30g 


<-.3 
—  o 

go 
a. 2 

O  3 
3  g 


o  o>^ 

00- 

o  M^a  o 

„  O  X  u 
73  ;-"  O  OJ 


o 

'5'3~ 
SO 


;fc<Mrt 


,  o  q  3 

52-3 

o  >^  o 

'  "^  '3  -c  r^ 
—  O  c^ 
03O  O  — 
°        C  03 

O  3  3  o 

as.20 

3  3j^3 
O  3^~ 


'— "— ■— <^^— t-H^Hr-<c^c^c^c^c^c^c^r^cic>i?OTOrococororo:occro'^'<j''»j'-^ 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3115 


CO  «r  ic  o  1^  X 


■*t-  M  c5  ---  — ' 


oriooM-t^(Mr30cocccr3C»c^r^«:;'ef»OQOccaD05 

—     -      ■  OI^C:cCCDCD'*'tOCCOCO>C^H"-*  — 


M  -H  — .  rt  — (  lO  »0  —  -i  «         IM 


•--00000--CO— '--"CO 

4oio»oecoooiOio:05ai*oioooooio05ccco«DOi05»coio*oaiC:ai--'(roc^os(Ncoo;co»ooiiO 


0C00^--»C<JO--^C-IO0OC?^000?ltSI0^0'^00^OO0OO0^- 
:r:  05  Ol  *0  lO  00  00  lO  05  CC  CO  «D  Oi  05  »C  O  lO  *0  Oi  C:  ai -H  CO  OJ  OS  (N  c 


°'fe> 


Pi  >.>. 

.2  .Oh 

-Sea    - 
C  p  o^ 


.2  g  O  E : 


.-ti  £;  o  £  o 


£1      -api>  c  - 


.3    M  t^-^ 


W^; 


03  03'-* 

S^IS    -Ph 

O  OP  c   •> 

;L  a  c  o 
>2-  3 


«  *  - 

lis 
>u;SoMpqp-i£:z; 


:^2 


Sc  2 


,     C3   C3 


>>' 


p  ?«£ ^  ^  -^q  °  5 .,  2  _-  dS  d^  .« 


t;53  ° 


a  Sla 
»  2  o 


o 

bX)^    Cl-ri    O 
CD  _.    CC  HH  -^ 


CO  ' 

c  o^C 

o  S^ 
^K  I 


o.S 


oO  a 
5  bt-^ 


<■•  C  O  5:  O  4«!  _  , 
—  'm  O  •  c  ~  '^ 


■30 


o: 


■5o::o 


«t;^ 


ce  ^      —  '  , 


]°3"3 
'=0 


fci  g.^  go  >  OJ 


Sew 


®  o 

-  ,^^  _„ 

SZ,^  t£0  C  H  O 

■^■3„  H  »-?  00 

Bo  o  Eo~^ 

o  ?^  3  "r,  3M  .  >- 

—    CCOJ^CNgM 

— ^  JiJ  3  c  a;  .t^       cti 


txr~.  •^■-^-r-^-? 


=  0^   g 


O 
3  O  o) 

S"o 


-,  C  03  S 


O   03 


5mh 


i  o  k'^C 
^  o  S 

O   <D  tn    O 

-c-c  gx: 


:o 


I    03   S   CJ  OS  S 


;cDi:^ooOiO'-HC^P?iTT*iocor--ooo50'-HC^cO"^^cDt--GOa:o-HC^c*:i-^ioeot~-oooiQ.-HC^icO'^ 


3iOO»OiO»OiO»0>OCC'tC!lDO'-DOOO^CDt^I 


5oooocoGOooaocoooooc5aac 


^  00  O  t^  -—  • 

10  '*  t^  c*:)  — - 


3  r-i   C 

:  to  "o 

5  ic  cc 


O  '^  - 

000 


O'^  —  crcsoooTt^cT'OOoo— ' 


^■^  ■X)00  •— 
C:  00  O 


.  1-^  r^  r^  r^  t^  I 


»C  10  tC  --J  O  t 


oc  o 
— ^  o  00 


oiccc'i.—  — •i^Dr-oc:.  —  0:0 
T^cJO'O'— 'cri-^cCGC'C'occ  '---■  ^'  Lj.  >. « >- 
.  -^,  ^  -^    ..  ,^  «..  ,j^  ^-j  ;^-,  i-^  ,—  — .  or  c—  OJ  c 
.     - .  o  p  o  -r 


O'-  0  r-  —  . 


•M  c^  01  CO  CR  o;  o 


^^^^^0„i005r^C^(NC^C^^C^  —  Oi^^^^ 


'ft-  or.  x^  —  c^  o  c^  ^  >c  (N 
,  .  o  O  '-^  "  —  ■  ■  -  -' 
lt:  ic  to 

a;  CT3 


■  r^  ■n-  a:  O'  !C  "^  o  ' 

•  -■  -T  ^  L^r  10  CD  to  . 


lOtr  O'-~'^tr;t0t0tCtCt.~  iOtC»Otr:  «fttCtOtOiOtOtO  iOtOtOwtOtO»0  »o  »o 

r-  i^  cc  t^  r^  r*  I--  1^  h-  t^  1^  t^  r^  1-  f  ^  r^  [^  r^  t^  r^  r-  r^  t^  r—  r^  r^  t^  t^  t—  t^  r^" 

OCTiOOCSC-lC^C^OC;  —  C^O^OOiCT-.— '--OClC^t0tC00CDc0C0rCt0»0a&0> 
,0.—  .-.wr-.^--.-i»-:C^^»0'^  —  tT'-Ctc^         (MCS^^to-^tNT-f^T-tC* 


> 

.    X 


525-§5o> 


c -£  ■=  ^  £  "oi  •  7  E 


^KOf^tji 


'"o  6  ce' 
:CiOfcH 


d    l2  — 


;> 
«  .  . 


,-  c 


c9.o 


U  >-r'- 

.^  o 


r1      '>>'      '      I   K 

—  ^  >  ;>.  r  >    , 

«*o.-cfci'^>Sc--^-V^'' 

>2:^ . 

^^  ex  a  d.  D-  tu."- 


''^S 


•o 


03  ui 


rop^fi,^  fl 


£- Ph  Ph  Ph  PL,  Oi -4  ?  ii<  o  ^  P  a  <;  »5  i=;  C  2;  fa  B  w  fa  <  <  m  p^  dt  ^  fe 


S^s— «T-'®   '•-'•-'2? 
2  P?~  5c3.£='2S5 


^T3 
O  B 
O  =3 


,60 


§0" 


•c  '2.    _ 

c3  g_c'oi 

OJ3  ca  3 
MO^P5 


3^ 


'  :*  >  p5 
!  ^  C  ^  ^ 


O 

Cj-c  d 

-.  no 


-SO^-^SaS 


QJ  o  ^ 


°  o  „ 

doo5 

ooOO-o;§S 
O  tr  ■::  ■:3  o  -G  t:  •- 

■ci  "-nr     „  3^fa 
>^  „  >-.  a:  S  fe  X  t: 

.2,.=  e;-  S  o  £  £  g 
<;  Eh  «^  H  K  :z  p;  o 


o 


--r'^U 


O 


ope 
P5<0 


'-■'■.S   O   C3 
=  .rHO    O      ,    ^ 

o  ''-  _  O  o  o 

o^  g  gO-ra 

3  «0  S'S" 
■-r~  x^  o  c 

iS  p  a  _.  j= 

oS55o5 


o  S  bC 
Oo<^'- 


So 

O  0_--  0(_j 

--0015  S 
c  o^^o^ 
^  O  Ci  iq  O  '^ 

£  ?;K!  fe  o    ' 

r-  ci;  c  c  3  3.£fx: 

<-^2:oPiep;p:^ 


o   . 
O  d  o 

0)00 


SO 
'.'$■0 


B5l 


O.! 

«^ 

oj^  o 
O  S  c 
c  ^  2 


900^  s- 

o  c-o^  o 
OM  a  rt  3 
^  o  03  orr 

■go-so^ 

2  s  o  b  ^ 


'*f<  i^  :d  t^  00  OS  o  ^V»  CO  •^'  *o  CO  i^  06  oi  o  «'  cs  cc  •^'  <i  o  r^  06  05  o  ^*  c^  CO  ■^'  to  cc  r-'  06  05  c  "'  c^^ 

^■^■^■<^'^^iOtO*0'0*OiO»0*0»0*CCC,©,;DO^^;DCDCC5tOI--t^I^t-t*r^t^t>.t-*t>-0000000000«000000000050505wOsaB^ 


3116 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


05-rJ*-»JHC^-HfOOC'lcOOaOfMOM-:t^-#(Nt^03QOOCO'^r^cO'.0 


^  (^^  T}<  lo  »o  CO  c 


•  ^  ^  c^  »o  1^  ' 


0'-'O^OOC^O'-<OOOO^H^O--<OOOOOOOOOOC^OC^--tOt-H^Hf-HOOC^)'-^0--<OC5 

l~- 1~- 1;  r^  1^  r^  i^  t^  l^  r-  r-  t^  i^  t^  t^  r^  t^  t--  r^  i^  t-  t^  i^  t^  1^  1--  t~- 1^  r-  r-  t-^  t^  t^  r^  1^  l^  r^  r^  r-  t>- 1^  t^  r^ 


5^> 


■^3  C_aJ<|'C 


oSf 


^  o 
figs 

0250 


>»2S>^ 


.2  o 


l^.^f^d 


> 


>> 


=3  03 
» 


>^^'i-' 


lisliKiili  iiitllii  III  nil  III 

2;oPOrt^;ZON^OQo2^tf2;0MPL,OmKOef^C;Sop:-s;feUaM 


•9S 

[Sod 


a  a-S 


O 

Ogdq 
-i003 
o  ^— .pi 

a  s'lM^ 

03  ?  O  1 


O 
^^  o 

m  9  bfiO 


0-; 


9  0-S3 
aeS  a 


a 


»°'^^ 


oO 

_  cdUi;^  o 

O  S  o  a-^ 

hc'^  S-J3  0 

3   O   C  ti  M 

cq"gio>^     ^-^^^^^^ 

O o5      ■  "       ' 


a  o 


^  o  a  o 

^  3  20 
.9  a 


06 

0 

c; 

a 

a 

_ 

■3 

a 

d 

0 

03 
0 

"=5 

—  S^a  o 
:  °  ^  S  rt 


<  o 


1^-  d  a> 

3  o»g 


>,°'.5 


ao 


03  OU 


ra~w  □■-  a 
°  g^  g.2  3 


^Sisr   .-^.a   .ja^^ja  3  3"5x;;=;^^.a.a  S=5  o^  3OT-t;.<"  3  0  ?i.S."r  §.a  o  g  C.C  g  s^ 


,>'^-a^ 


tp  ecQ  a- 
S  ^■a  ^ 

•ar>>r 


CS  CO  '^ 

*0  iO  »o _,  ^. 

<N  (N  (Tl  CS  (N  (N  <N 


)  »0  »0  lO  »o  4 


00aiO-HiMC0"rt^»0!0r--00CiO- 


5(;ocooccco';D':DcDr-i>.i--r^ 


.ooa)0^c^l^rO'^Loo^^ooo;o^'^^c2■^ 


c^c^c^c^c^c^^c^c^^csc^c^c^»c^c^lc^c^c^^c^lc^c^c^e^c-JC^c^c^^6^c^c^c^IOiC^l:s(^^ 


»0»OiOi040»Ou^iOiOioiO*0'0»040400i040iO»040»0»OiOiO 


t-r^r^r-t^r-t--t^t-.t^ 


.  h*  t^  t- 1-.  i^  t^  t 


b-t^r^t--t-t^i>-i>-t-t^t 


!>..2 

IM-a 

03  ®     - 

"<  >  a 
^00 


S-a  ° 

o  ®o 

•o 
•a  .2 -3 


2M    .„ 

£1     -03  W 

—  '"  g  » 


3i3  a^  a  , 


Sa 


C82^  -  *  — 


;    ;    '    .    ,    '►r    .    '  -■    '  °3 

;32-a=^f^f^>3    ;S    ;>:  03 
a  s   -^OO  fi  fl  H  2   -^o"^   .03'''^ 


o  o 

S3 
00 


1^-3      -4 


:SsS£gg.9^s|s5aa|2-3 


3^Sfia  = 


3P-1. 


^3  3^ 

E  fe  a 

O^  C3 

aj  o3  «^t-i 


.—  o^ 

o  SO—  ° 
O  " 


O 

C3  0'  at 


SJi  a)  O)  O  03  'S 

.9  w  a  >-  .°  O 
as  osOPh 
r;4<iM3  M  „ 


I0 


00  a„ 

O— .  3  03 

9  °    01 

30  >-       ' 


'  c3^U 

:5^.9 


000 
, -^  -  ., 


O 

O  a3r-]  a 


O  o^ 


o  03  q^o 


O    b£| 

^•9 
boa  0*3 

.9510° 


3"-'oj;-9-30'3 


-^lo^^io.9 


.  o  be 

00  a 
=  gpo5 


3  S  S=1 


!aa' 


"3  5  a 

.3   O   M  O  Ol   3  3   O--.- 

PHrtflnPHtHMMpHrtf 


oj  O  Or)  oO 

t-J  t.  t.  a  fi 
t-  «  2  S  L*^ 

p  CO  o.®  ®  9 
oja  p^aja'C 


£  to3fL 


ocn_a  gTjMo 


>>ao. 

_  tnc3W  ps  a 
nap   .'^  03  c3 

m  -e  ffl  '^  "  p  .ti 
;-2  P  p  (D  a>  OJ  t-  - 

3  3  •-  .a  .a  3  3 


o  cs  6~0 


o§ 

-^  a 

=y  50- 
-  c-  g 

03  CO  03,^ 


o  .y  a  >.S 

,    ry:i    0)    1--    C3  — 

I  no  «u4o 


io°«o 


I  .a  a  J3  jp  ."^^ 


CO   g_j    (^3   03 

a-o2a 

X.-S^o3  03 


CO'^»OCDt^00010^^CSOO'<*<»OCOf^OOOSO^H(NC*3Tt*iO'Or^OOOiO^-<C^OO'<^«^tOr^OOO^O^-<CSOCTt<40 

a5asos05cn05050ooooooooO'-^^H^H^H^-(^-.--i^H..^^HC^rics(Moic^cscsc^c^cococcoococo 

■-lrtrtr-irt,-.r-((N(Ni;<CNIM0-ICslC^CSMMC-)(MC^OllMC-)M(MClC^<NC^C^C-)CmM(MCS?JC'JC-)(MCSCSC^ 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTKY 


3117 


■^OOitOOOOir^iOiOOCC'^COb-OO 
OCCOOOO— 'O-— 'OOOOO-—! 


'> 

■^•o 


_(^  03 


"SoS 


O  »K 


tfootf^S 


> 


o 


•30 


:  a  O.SO  o 


o^ 


■g.ao  J-: 

<D  oj  ;- jii_-  -r*; 
Cd^  3  o  C3-7-  , 

roa,^<i>t-— ^  [_.:'- ■-^—-j-'-'a/::^-:' 


i  £.s5  Segal's  d 


OSOlOiOSCiOOOOOOOOOO 


O  O  ^  --H  *N  (M  O  (N  (M  '>'5  CI  --^  C<I  — •  ^  — ' 


»c- 


S  a>  ca  a>  IK'S  <"5  "  aj  tB.S'S 


O  o 
0.0 

•^"3 


=>  o  a 


do    , 
O  to  o 


025:21 


°sis 


So 


_  _,  o  a 
3^^0 


60 

m  ® 

pOO 

rS^O 
O  „ 

■aO  03 
SnO 


-^,  g'^Oc- 
^  a  g  cs  o  ° 

2-^  °^  bx,23 
0.-:0' 


o  c^  fii  o  m  Ph  Q 


.-00 


5  50 
a"'3  M  S.2 


3118 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


^•S  c' 


l^iO^:OC<I  .—  CO  05  O  CJi 

■440O— <OiCW         OSOOt-Cl 


—I  CCi  CN         -^         O  '—  CO  !C  ^ 


ec  c^  o 

^  ^  00 

uiodcs 
(N  1-4  r- 


C0  00Q0»O 


g  w  0^  .■::  o  --- 

OJ  s  ^  OJ  +-^ 
Pn-tr  g  ^  =^ 


OC  "O  (N  1-^  CM  ^ 

•— <  *o  O  O  *C  l^ 


C^  <M  ^ 


+J   C  CO 

CI  R  ^ 


^t^tOCS^CXJOO'MCO-^         CO-^QOOOOGOOOOSOOCCOOiiOOO 


OcCOOcOdOOroO-i-i 


■^CDO'^C^Oi'-'COCO'er'CCOO'— ' 


r-^  oi  oi  ^  o  't**  -H  I 


^OCOiOiM^—        OCX'  — 


-j^^  CO 


o^coo 


oooooo      oooooooooooooooooo 


o  o  o  o  o  c 


oooooo  lo  oooooo  ooooo 


0005000        OOOOCC^CSOOOOOOOOOC 


CS  iC  CD  O  O  O  C 


fooo'or-^oc  —  oc^oocc<)t^icocc-^o 


►-C^r^OCOO         O  O  !M  iC -^  C^  O  N 


O         — '         —" 


^    •.  <£  h  ^  ^V.-^ 
"  ^  ^^-rt  C  O  OJ  c6, 

Ph      .ti  ca^      .5  " 


cnio^cor^oioior^ccocMCSfNasQOTfrot^ooo-rf(NCN'<racrrt^oo2 
.     .„  —  -^       .„._   — 't--r;cocO"^»ooo»-~oaor-Ot>-'^2C'Oooo 

..-   ^   -WW-  ~--^^-.^>-s_,O30O'cd<:dt^'l^C^OcccdiOc4-'T3:-^'l£?C0 


J  c^ 


s^,^ 


>   <D  TZ  -2  « 


;s.ss 


r^t^^coo^i^QOO'OcO'-Hic^cO'tfQOOsiroc^ic-^'— r^OifNOiooqoi-i 

tOC0i0C0C?0Ol-^"5C0^CR'CN»iOC^Tf'Oi000O^rt''*C0OO00C00i»O.-< 

C5  --"'  CO  c^  -^  --H  o  c^i  o  q6  csi  .-4*  r^  rr  ^-:  C)  cri  crJ  »o^x  ^'  CO  oi  CO*  ic  cc  CO  M 

CCtOiOC^C-l^COCOCO— i-»*<iCcOC-ir-'«J-'—  — •■—  CNO-—  CMCC— 'Ol-^CCfCCO 


CD   C    g   c«  -^  ^ 


5  o  »o  o  CO  r^  00  X)  oc  CO  X  o  O  ao  c 
j^-^rcoooco'^icx'^xxicot 


ixoc-iio-HCOXr-o  —  x-^'-t 

"~cOrrc003it^05'^^Oit^ 


C:>— iiociOOOi— '>— 'cO-^-ccOC  Tf»CcOiOOiO— <OC 


K^  9  5^  §  X 


OOir^cOXOO:-^»0— ic^i 
XXO  iQ  CI  I-- !M  C^  Tp  C"  ■■  ' 
C^'O^^CCXOI--XC 


:i— "a:c^cocso'-'"^^a»'co»oc«*o 


rcoOi"^c^'ci>--'iO'--^t-^"^o*ocooo£5"icx'V"i^cc  -^t^  CO  X  -"^  — '  r-  ooo 


CM  cc       ■-«  .— (  ro 


CC  O  -^  Tji  CO  (M  ' 


G    c:;    d    '^ 
o  O  O  ?  — ' 


^°2oS 


trt 

X 

t-t 

w 

D. 

0) 

p 

s 

*-H 

:^SS 


'H2 


J«  O  OS 


X»'^'OC0OCC05'*I--C0XOC0'^C0X'^-HCC0i— •''J^Ot-^Tt'OlC^OSOC} 

oxt^^ai'MO(M'oa>cr>o^xx)ccoosoo'-iXxt^ir2aiC^cO'-'« 
'-*cDoicoas'-^'^c4eDo6»0'-Hu6r-^r^co<d«-<»coi<o^'od'"»0'^'r-j 


3  ^  ■-«  CC  CS  - 


■^  C^  Tf*  CO   -— 1   .-H   CO   --H   1-t   .— (  CO   —   *0  CO  W  rH  < 


x-^foco— >CM^r-co(MOr~xc::Tj--.j'aiiocofor^xcor— oco-^roioco 

iOOt^OiOX005(N'-'-^iOX*C'iOXX— *000'-'C^Ot^t-rOCO'*»OT-H 

cocsc^i--o^«:)-!j'ior-cor^csoioc^xc^oxcDio.-o»oioco-*0'-*cQ 


CO  -^t^   X  '^  CO   r-H   - 


CJJX— 'CCO-^C-Ji— "CO— t 


^^        ^O'^'—  Oi— I 


I  lO  CN  CO  ■*  ■-"  t^ 


C^iOh^C^J-^COX-*-— '■— (O— 'Oir^t^iOOiMiOiOCO-^COX'^'^OOC^C^O 

oJcoccTrxicoiaio;to^X'^i--xcD(M-#coror-«--tor-t^or-i>'C30 

CO         CD'-'OlXI^-rf-^C^'TtHir:.  rHOCD-rrOiCDiOCO'^CO'— '■^-^■^oicoxo 
iOCO'OCO(M*"o"cji        I--^OQOO'"'-^C4''—'        ^  y~^       -^       oococsco        ^ 


— I  X  CO  -^  iC  -H 


coosco^r-ocococ^^ocooic 

COC^O'^OCOCMOOCOCO  —      —  - 


b-OS-^COXX'^'^OrOC^OcO'^COCO 

^..  ^._.  -.. ^cD  —  cor--rfcoo^-oaiOcoxt^co<— I 

00-*C<»'-«.— .^QOXOiiO'O'^C^ClC^O-^X'^COCOCO 

■"-Tof      cs  oi  CO  c^'eo'  •-''  -r^  c^      co"^c  lo  .-h 


sociaitNo^xcoc^csxxiocsc^x^ioaixc^: 

.  _  — ^  ^. -.,  —    .. .    00  "^  OS  -— '  OS  ^^3  *o  c^  -— ■  rr  c  -  - 

l^^t-^O'— CO-^XCSTt*OC^<MOCOCOX 


coicx"^-t-ococ^ico-^x; 

OXt^-— '■^CCOCSCOOIO' 


i  tN  X  Oi  <— «  X  Oi 


3coio050Tr-«^h-cot^-^050  0'.  ocsxor-oicO'— 'CO— «o^^'-<'^«ot-- 


«^        I— ■  (N  rr  •— '  — .  (N  - 


-OO  -H  ^ 


u:)OCDC^CSO'^CDO-<fOr^-*OOCDOOTP'»*'0"0'OOcOr-X0005 


3COt-COOC^OC^iOCOt 


^OO"*?^-—  lOC^CDOC 


o^c^^"^oc^Tt<r^t^oc^050iOxocsoioot-r-r-c^r-'OOC^x 


t--.r^oeC'«:)r--cO'— ic 


.-'         CSCOCOCO'^TtHTf"^CNOiCO'^»0005*OXC 
«^  i-H  r-(  ,-1  ^  CD  -^  CM  r-.  r^ 


■'COCCOCOC'l— 'f-C^lMO'-'CO'^'cOOCOOtC 


)--iOiCDOfN-^C^OO 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOiOOOOOOOOC 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOiOOOOOOOC 
OiCOOOOOClOOOOOOOOO^O'-OOOOOOOC 

O  r-T  oi"  O  O"  C^  O*"  CO  O  O  O'  CO  o'  o'  X  o  o'  x"  "O  o'  CM  O  X  CN  t--^ »  ' 


OO— '0^-0?OO^OOC^O»CC^t^CO 
CM         --1  OS  — '  (N 


O         — '         —"■ 


■-H  C-l  CO  rf  «^  CO  I 


■<-C^CO'^iOCOt-XOSO'-'CMCO'^»OCOI>-XPSO 
-^^^^^^^^CMCMCSC^CSCSC^NWWCO- 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3119 


lO  Ci-^ 

1  rs) 

'J2  CO  ■^ 

OS  h'  O 

■  Tf 

O  C^  '^ 

.  OS 

O  t"-  '^ 

.  —-." 

,  ,^* 

1  CO 

— ( -^ 

o-^  »c 

oi  as 

— '  iT' 

lO  »oo 

-JDMCO 

S?3 

i-Ti-T 

C-. 

s 

1^5  -rf 

OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOiOOOOOOO 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO-: 

oooooooooc::ooo^o*oc 

CJ  o"  '^  O'  O  O"  CT  O  O  O  O  O  Q  od  O'  (M*  »o'  O  4 


I  '^  CJ  o  o  -*  C 


, -oooooo 


o  o  o  o  --< 


—  ^      o      -^ 


lOoo— 'cco5C»r-r^^030so»ooo3--''*--'<MC^':o 


'  t^  CO  Oi  CI  h-  I 


■C^l^OOO'-'OsiCiCS 


I  CO  o  ^  i-t  '"  '!^  cs  O  cc  OJ  00  r^  C5  'M  ';C  lo  CO  o  o  r-  c?s 


w  Tj*  CD  O  - 


I.—  CRCNr-QOiocs'^-^ 


O  ^  'O  -^  CO 


C005»0CcCGCiCCCC^lC^tiC^CS-- «»— c 

oacoo6Tt'r^oi»co-^»c»ooO'-'*o6cot^ 


't^rcr-C"<?'C^iocDc^aoocnccc^otc— '-^oocoo 


>ic-<**cO'— 'rocDcc^HO>oo--'C 


)  CO  'ff  00  CO  1^  04 


ir^t^C'XOit— »ococooGCcocoo:Oi'^tccor-— 'r- 


OcD'-'r^c^'*t^co>r;(M--cC30'-'o-rt''* 


C^Tt<,'^»oeocot^-^ 


I-NCOCOCDOOCOO 


COCCW'— '^lOtOOicD'-'COb-C^cOCOt-C^ 


,  I--  ^  ,_(  lO  o 


I  CO  CO  O  ^  r-- 


C0-^"*CCaJC-iCC;!N'"-O'— <OOiOCi0  1---Ht--C-^(MOCOCO(N-^CO 
OlOiCOCS'.'rcO  —  C^rfCC(MO'*^iOOOcO'X("*t^r-(N»OC-luO 

oscocococor^-— ''-"■^Grod  —  ocor^otoo-- 'Oi»oiOr-'oO'-< 

C<f '^  CO  t-T  x"  C:' 'C  C^' 00  lO  lO  CD  co' •<3'' CO '"3'' oT  CO  i^ 


^         —  t-'McO        T-C^-^O 


^  ^         ^         (Tfl  (N 


.-H»O(MiCt--CC^r'CCCr5^>OO(N*O'3;D0  0C'(MCD00C0— 'OCO 

t^  c<i  CD  oi  o  -rr  x'  -rf  r^  c^  c^'  -^  -:r  c<i  oi  "O  r^'  Tp  GO  oJ  --•'  c^'  CO  Tf 

COi-H         COCI'-'---C<I--<(MTji^CSiO         .-HC0--'(Mr-(O5CIC0!M 


h-.oicDicc^cocr;cDGOt^'— 't-co-^-^o-^c 


»0  05  C^  CD  O  » 

c^  o  «o  t^  -^  * 


iC  rf^  I-"  C^  r^  I-"  CD 


>  ■rf-  CO  Oi  »0  00  h'  lO  CD  00  00  CO  t^  CD  CO  lO  lO  t-- 

■  — >c^T-«,-taiC^"^<MOiaooocDr'OS'-'cocD 


cc  CD  ex:'  iC  CO  (N  I 


■  CO  t^  —  CD  ^  :c  CD  ^  >-H  w  I 


coc^-^ccc-»-fcocD"^'CC^os»Oh-r 

CO.-HI--.0:'— 'CDiC— •   /jioooc^CJ  —  - 


■  CD-— 'CDCSiOCDOiO-^ 


oot^c^c^'^co":^r-C'itCi-^c^i-HO     icootc-^ooiocDiO'' 


--lOC^t~»OCscDOrrC^a:GOQOTrt^OGCiOasC^CDCDb-CDiO 
O100^CD0S00a0iOCDQCO(NiCC0CDCDOC0Tf<tOCDOr~-t^CD 
.-lMX-*J^'-^OC5Ou0CiCDOI>-  —  COC^CD00CO<M00-*Tt*|--Cl 


OCDO-— ''-<0-*J'uOOCO(NuooOOi-- '1— '•— ■OOI>-'<*'t^OC5»JOC^ 
lOOOOiC.  CDOl^CClOC^-^CD'N— '•-H'^C^IcCO'eT'COCDOr^CO 
N-^aiOr^Cl'^CDi— ■CD'^iMiOCDC^COiOCsOcoCO'^CO'-'OO 

coto^oO'^^r^yit^oSt^cSci^-^^To^'-^Ci  of  u^T  »o  od"  p  c-S  lO 


,-c  !MOiCcO'-<^CO!Mr^ 


t^      ^  ^  - 


Oco  t- 
OCDCO 
cicD~t-^ 


I  o  X  r^  »-o  I 


rOOcoOCOOOiO-rJ^— 'OOiOsO 


pO""  —  coooioocooocDcoor 
iCM-cfO  —  t^ocoocooioooiooi 


■  CO  -^  O  ir:  I      _ 

J  Tj*  »0  O  CD  O  O 


-r^cooc.  rro:DOco--'0^ 

CO  t^  !N         r-i  ^         05         --H 


^OlO^COOi^CO'— 'CD 

I  -?r  -^  -H       Oi  CM  1— '  o 


ooo-^ooooocooooooo 

gOOi— 'OOOOOOOOQOOOO 
OOCOOOOOOOOOOiOOiOO 
e^O  C*f  cm'  O  Q  O  O  O  O"  CJ  O  O  00  o  cf  >o 
CM  i-<  ,-(         O         ■-' 


lOOOOO 
lOOOOO 

iOOOOO 


'^  CM  O  -H 


»-«CMeO'^"5cDt^QOCiO»— <CMC0"^»O<0h-00asO>-HCMC0    ^    — 
COe*5COCOCOCOCOCOCO-^Tj<"^'^^TjiTf'^'^'^m»OiCiO  o-io 


3120 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


03X3 
03  3 


as  «:> 
oo 

coco 


DcDO■^"^'^^"^cocccccO'-'CiO--^^D«:;o»olOC■-  —  rc 
3C3ir-iTj^T^o»oiO'^c:5Tf"C^coc^coo-^ooocO'— ceo 

50'-"-'— iO'-''-H— .O— 'OCJ-h-hO-hOOOOOO 

-  t^  t-  t-  r-  t-  r^  t^  t-  t^  t-  t--  r^  t--  r^.  t^  t-  i^  t^  r-  r-  t  -  r- 

-toioooQC'OiOooioiO'— tiocs-^cDco*— cor^cc-^icc:! 

DC^COCOCOCOCOrOCOCC'^iC''— <'X5C0!O'^CCC0C0«i;CCCD 


n  a  .y;  -r,  V 


ss 


•^ 


5    ^    CS    .J    >• 

3  "^  ° 


o  o 

o^  as  a 

Sags  o'-^g 

•B  t^  i2  ®     on 
a  SS 3  ^P S 


6o 


o^ 


=8  J< 


:'3  S 


_  cB  s 
i  o  o 

;  Crl  E  O  M  K  I?  Q  cnO  m  tn  S  K  O 


050>-H(M(rCi"*0':Dt^OOa>0'-iO)fCi-^ 


-0000— 'iMCO'^iO 


cccococococccccoro*^'^'*'"^'^'^"^'^"^"*'OOtoioi- 


t^COOi»OCOiOO'' 


}  -H  o  Ci  t>-  o;  r-  — t  ■: 


_   .  -.  r-^O'— *oo'-c^oic^oc;ci'-HOtOiooc,_     _    _  _  _._.    _. 

O— 'OOOOOOO'-^O— <•— 'OO-— lO— '■— '-"hOOO-— 'OOOO 


3  10  "O  "^  lO  »0  I. 


;»OtOiOW0»OO»O»OO»0iOiO»O 


-tJiCCOTr-^COCOC^-^COtMCOCOt 


D'^comcoccccii:dcocccO':oco 


5  o   ;  rX   ;   ;    ;  .2   '   ;   ;    ;   ;  3   ;  a  © 


-'^^5-a§Si3  2=2»" 


5-^ -73  fl 


a  a  : 


40  o  d  >^  tfos-. 


!  I  S  j3  fe  q  oiJ-' 


O  be 

OS 


oOr 


■3  o    ' 
~0  o 

"^0.9 


a°3 


Oo 
^" 

og 

^o 

d  p 


50 


O 

^o 

o— . 

OS 
°3=g 


oo 


O;- 
-  a  o 


^^o 


CHSS 


ro^  o 

6  g  o.w  ce  d'-'a^ 

0°Om°o  O  o'a 

^'    1'^'-'  o  PO  o 

a  ^  g  g  qO 

oS  «  y  t!  ^. 

a   CD  -tJ—;  ^ 


w^  o 

.   3  13  9 
'1  o  5.2 

^    .  »  3 


11! 

CC     r-J    ^ 


^^O  go-So 


—  tS  cfl 


;iSfto 


0&5" 


aSmSO 

13  ca.t-  a  b 
M-M  ca  5  a 


O   03 

fea 


i-HWW^»oot*oo050^'Meo-*i*"^cDr-Q0050^'NcO'^ioeor^cc 


ilNC^CSC^IMC^OlC^ICS 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3121 


jSsiSfeg 


25  (D   ^   e^i  ?^ 


ii?,^^!^ 


OJO 


w 


_, 

rr^ 

1  O  — »  (M  00 

1.N 

OS 

■*-f* 

1^ 

•«»< 

c.t:. 


CNiOTfioc£j'^cot^o:cocOioOGor--roo 

COt^iCi— (.-iCOCCOi'-iiMTt^iOOlCDcr'CT'as 
"  00. CS  <C  -^  ^  CO         CO  CO 


^82 


lOiM-'^-^CO'— 'G0-^(N»O'C'^CO'— 'GO»Ot 


^•OiCDCOGCCOM'Olt 


■^OOiCCOOO-rfiOC 


3  CO  00  h-  •-<  CO 


<--  CS  ■-.  C^ 


,-1         .-.  CO  I 


T-K      zo^  <z:iz 


*  ^  O  CO  CO 


ttoOS 


oo  oooo  o 
O  iC  o  o  oo  o 
o  "CO  o  oo  o 

ocooooo'ocsoo 


- 30000000000 

oicooooor^oooooooooo 
— oooo  o_o^o  o  o 

lo"  irf  t--'  2  S  o"  o*  (m" 

i-t(N  oSSo  (M 


coosai'^t^r^-^t^Oior'Or--.ocoiMh-Oio 

Tt"03Tj*cooQOcocx)icxocca3*oo.-<aio 

oocox'-^OtC'r^oocooooi-^o-^oicOGOCid 


P-i.Sd'C" 


O<NO»OO0000»OtoCI500»OTr<CO01^00O5 


tD  d  g  >  g-H 


— 'cotN-— it^i-~ait^h-r^rococ^cocDcor^OJ 

tPCDCSOtJ^i— iOOt^>0"<J'01COCNr--^**J'0 

c^QOcocdoJoioooicDco'or-^t^'^Oioici 

(M.-l(NrH(N,-.C^C^,-.COCOT-(CO^(Mr-l 


Oh-  8^^ 


OiOooccr^h-eoOt^cowiocoooO'-too 

t^C^COt-'^'— lOOCOr^OOiOOit^Tj^GO'^^OOO 
lO  CS  (M  t^  C^  .-I        CO  >— I  CD  CO  C^  <N  i-i  (N  W  OS  00 


'*r^c^(N(Mai»cost--co^O'-'-#cob-oooo 
coO'^iocNr--r-.o— 'Oic-^ooi^r^co'or-'— I 

iO'^OCOOCDOCOt^'-(CDCO-rJ^(N-^'— "ic^ 

cTioococc'oicccoco^'^cDiob^^cor^co 
cNc^  CO  r^— •ooO'-t 


"Sis  C! 


o  o  g^ 


f^og.i 


iOC^r^Tt<iOOl(NOi05-^>Of— 'OsOcOCOOsO 
5  iri  CO 


<M  ^  '<}<.-(.-».-. 


^^ 


COCOCO'-iOO'^^-OSt^iOCDI^OOr--'— '--<00 

COCSCOiM'-HCOiOTj'COQOOOCOcroOTi-C^.— ( 

oo»0'*rcow<M03Cvicqcor>-cooOi-HC:  —  cj 


TP  --H  CO  CO 

■-H  CO  .-H 


CO  QC  CI  .-H  rf  <N  Oi 
Csl  l-^  lO  (N  CO  O  •-< 
TJ^  1-1  CO  CM  CO  t^  »0 


'^  CM  OS  CD  CO  C^  O 
»0  .-H  CD  CO  '-<  ^  CO 
C  '^  ■-<  00  CO  CO  O 

^  IC  »o"(N  CO 

CO  o  r^  c^i 

-H  C^  00 


b-iOt-.OTf(NOOOlt— •— i'^C<DOCOiOi-H.-400 

"^ ■'^"OCOCO'^COCOOSf 

5  uO  Tt*  CM  CM  CO  CM  - 


COCO^OGOCOCO«^COCOOSCOOCMasOOLM-H 

^  ^  . ^  «,  *. ^,  _^  ^J  ^  ^  ^  ^  1^ 


4*  oXi 


|p.S 


'1-2  2 


t-OiccoocoCMoo-«**cor-t^r~-focooooscD 

CiCOOt--'^^CO»0»iOQCO-1000'-<Tt-CIsaiCO 
COOlOCMt^OSOO'-'OSiOCOTpiOCO'-OOCDCO 


l^»Or-t^C0  1^t-*-*COCOLOt^CM'MOSrj-XCO 


C)  CO  ur;  CM  ^ 


r-HOOCO-^OOOiOOO-^^iOGOOSO'^O 

CDCMCOCMOtOGC'—OOCO^CO'-'TP'-HOO 
O^OOOS-rfOOOSt-OOCTSOSiOO'^iO'^O 


OioOOoOOiCOOOOOOOOOO 

0"0oooor-oooooooooo 
ot^ooooocoooooooo^ooo 

o"cd'o"o*o'o'  o'cM  O  o'lO  »C  t-^^  'p.  O^O*  CM 

u:)CiO"Coioo--HCM.-i--ic^os^Socs 


•"HCMCO-^lOy^Jt'-CCOsO'-'CMCO-^^COC^C 


3122 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


o 


CO  3 


•« 
C 

e 


O 


00  cc  -^  o  cq  r 

—   -  -^  3 

^  c; 

.  i^  r^  t^  r^  t^  r^  t-- 1^ 

J  lO  00  Cv|  to  "^  Oi  o  ;q^ 


O      :   a  .S  PL,  Pl,  p;      ;  -, 
.   03  x;      .     .     -     '    . - 


O    ;0 


Q 

aJo  'Si  \  ; 
^•11-5  = 


Qj  q;  C 


c  c^i  -^  o  o  '-  o ; 

i-O  lO  »-"  CO  "^  "^  -'^  ^ 

l^  t^  f-  t^  r~  1  -  t;  t 


2;5Ph°c3    ;ftH-£c3 

s III  I  ill I 


O 


«  a  2  =  S 

?   §  «    It-  0   C    >' 
»_   C  <.  _j-;   (1,  i^   r/j 


!— '  o 

-C 

b  c 


1  -O  t-  X  3i 


OJ 


o  O!  ^  o  g  u  ,^  «  -;  5" 


K 


CI  Ci  --   OJ 


a.S2i 


^  0^  §  'H.  o  S 
<ij  c3  5  « t^"" 


•C  CO  tM  C^ 


O  :d  »  o 


OOOOCNOOOiOO^O 


CO  CD  d  O  -^  -^  c^J  :d  -M 
05co-^'-«iooi--:>_^  — 

raT  Q(5"ci'cDci"c4"cD      cd* 

OOC^        '<»'  Ci  -^ 

—       «o 


O 


OOdOOOOOOLOO 

oocoooooo:oo 

O^'M'  >i  O  O  O  io'  O  O  05"tO 
C -I  ■— (  — .  O  T-H  O  ^  O  O  --r  <M 


"       o  o3  cj  «  ^'E"' 


o  C  5  t^  *^  .^  --^  "c^J  ^ 
tii;  S  ^  "  a  ^B2 


°e 


S'C" 


C.  2  s  p-=» 
o  c  -  >  tr— 
Pm--  S  e  o 


2'3 


■rf<T}*-^o3a5.-*'or-coooi 

QC^HCOCOt^C^C^OiOCOO 

^  ^  ^*  O  (N  -ji  lO  O  OJ  I-.^  CO 
T-*  ^  'J  cO-^'-'»-»>0-^COC^ 


i-OTj^QOCil^CDI^COt^OOO 
O^^CO(NasOC550-^05 

CO  '^'  ^  O  ^"  -^  O  Ci  CO  CR  QO 
O^COCOO^OlMrfOC^ 


TrI----<I-t-'C0350C30t^ 

cs  x:  t^  u;>  jO  CM  o  c^i  »o  CO  -tj« 
CO  t^  oc  di  CO  r-^  i-^  o  oi  00  o 

^->  ;OC-J»OT^-'^^OC^:CCO 


rcent 
et  in- 
iie  to 
pital 
ock, 
917 

as 

-—  OCOiO«3^— »--O^OJC0 

S-gS- 

cT 

i«r§cs 

Net 
com 
after 
duct 
tax,  1 

00 

O  Ci  CD  Oi  I-  lO  t^  30  lO  CO  Ol 

1-^  ^  iC  as  30  t^'  CO  1-H  ^D  uo  -^ 
.— i  CO  CS  CO    r-.  t— I  lO -— <  M' c^ 


S 

$2,  548 

2,847 

71,875 

40,  363 

587 

31,776 

2,415 
419,  8,53 

1,070 
33,472 

4,615 

ill 

H  p. 

s 

$1,2.33 

2,510 

58,  592 

36,  484 

196 

22,118 

1,452 

394, 973 

634 

30, 903 

3,  694 

5p 

M* 

$1,315 

337 

13,  283 

3,879 

391 

9,558 

963 

24,  880 

430 

2,569 

921 

air; 
82 

s 

coooro-HOr-i^ot-cooi 

COOOOCicOO'X;OiO»0 

oo'^o— 'O— •■^J0■^t-- 
C50— ococr.  oc^ooiio 

-tt  c^)" lo  c5" '^t^" ci c^aiuSt^oi 

r-'-'t^O^iOCrsOCOOCO 


OOOOOOOOOiCO 

o  oooooooocio 
o'  ■-■^i  r  r  o'  o  o  »c  o  o"  1^'  cT 


)  IX)  I  -  -jO  3i  ^  .-« 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3123 


r-^  o  r-*  c^i  cc  lo  r^ 

00  CO  CD  CO  O  05  c^ 

TjJ  lO  r^  h^  -:#<  t--'  h-^ 

I    I— I  CO  CO  iTD  — '  CS 


W  CO  i-H  <M  .-«  r^  05 

O  CO  <N  CO  (N  CO  00 

cs  a:.  iQ  r-  CO  TH  --H 


i-H  -^JH  CO  CO  Cl  -^  00 
^   C^  --H  CO  >-<  O  lO 


ooooooo 
ooooooo 

40  0  0*0  CO  lOO 
W  CO  C^  f-t         C^  CO 


O  CT-  CO  O  CO  04  rrl 
t^  OS  ■rf  CO  C^  OC  O 

»-J  CD  '^'  *0  (n'  00  ^ 
CI  .-*  CO  <-<  ■'^        iO 


■V  CO  00  CO  CO  -^  o 
rt*  t"  '*'  -^  Tf  t~-  -^ 

"^  CO  ^  1^  O  C^  CO 


oo  CO  CI  cs  r^  r-  o 

O  OO  OO  Oi  CO  CO  04 

CO  o'  oi  CO  lO  oi  -^ 

WC^  lO  1-"  lO        o 


CD  CO  C^  t- 00  ^  (N 
CO  <-i  00  OS  CM  CO  (M 

wi  OS  c4  «o  oi  CO  ^ 

rH  N  »0  00  OS  CO  ^ 


i-t  00  »0  CO  CO  t--  ■—( 

•-«  ^  cft  -^  c^  r-  CM 
CD  O  CI  r^  CM  «D  o 

CO  od  CO  r^  TT  »o  •-<' 


CO  -^  ^  CO  00  CD  -^T- 
OS  TP  Tj*  O  CD  t-*  O 

»0  00  O  OS  CO  00  --H 
^  -^Ji         CM         lO 


O  OS  OS  Tf  — '  — <  to 

CO  00  CD  lO  — ■  «:)  -rt^ 
C^  lO  CI  00  CO  i-H  CO 


"  CO  CO  O  CI  CO  lO 
I  CO  CD  CD  -^  O  CO 
I  1—1  00  CO  O  -^  CO 


I  CD  CO         •— I  CO  O 


CO  CM  O  OS  CD  Tf  OO 

CM  Tj4  Tt*  tp  C4  r*  OS 


■^  O  CO'  OS  CO  CM  CO 


»OOOOOCOd 

COCOOOOCM  — « 

CO  r^  O  CO  o  Tt"  oo 

CD*"  ro"  o*  o"  o'  rC  o" 

i-H  C4  CJ  UD  .— I  OS  O 


ooooooo 
ooooooo 
ooooooo 

lOOOO  CD  lOO 
C4COCI»-l         C4CO 


1  CO  -^  lO  CO  I^  GO 


?3  ^ 

'SB 

CO  3 


83876— 35— PT  13- 


OOOCO'-*-rJ<— <CMCMCD 

cot^r-r^r^»nto^iO 

O-^iOCOCM-Tj'CD   OICO 

^o  —  —  o  —  -^— <o 

COCOCOCOCOCOCOCDd 


o  o  o  o  , 

.S".S".S'.S-£.H.S'i  c 

00CCT-00*5l,X 


fcjD 


o  g  o  6jo 


o 


i-"i|sss.ii 

o  --J  cm'  CO  M*'  id  CO  r^  00 


Ir-CDOiOCOClCOCMO 
CO  CO'  ^  CT;  O  OS  O  CO  O 

ccOQCccr^-roocMo 

OOi-tOOOOCMO 
iO*OtOiC»0»0»OiOiO 

cooorfTj-oor^r^CMt^ 

CO  CO  CO  CD  CO  CO  CO         CO 


73  >.:3  o)  *-  -H  D-^i^  a> 


<C4CO"^tOCOl>»00Ol 


-15 


3124  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Exhibit  No.  1117 
[File  90] 


Wilmington,  Dhxaware, 

December  13,  1911. 


Memorandum 


investigations  and  SECXJKING  sites  for  SM0KELESS-P0V,'DER  plants  by  E.  I.  DTJ 
PONT  DE  NEMOUES  AND  COMPANY  IN  THE  INTERESTS  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES 
GOVERNMENT 

Diplomatic  relations  between  the  United  States  and  Germany  being  brolcen 
on  Februarv  3,  1917,  and  we,  realizing  tbe  powder  situation  in  the  United  States 
and  the  advisability  of  locating  a  new  powder  plant  to  comply  with  the  rulings 
of  the  War  College,  started  our  engineers  on  February  7th  collecting  data  on 
stream  flow  and  study  of  topographical  maps  for  a  smokeless-powder  plant 
location  to  comply  with  the  rulings  of  the  War  College  since  none  of  our  plants 
complied  with  these  rulings. 

Oil  April  21,  at  our  request,  a  letter  was  obtained  from  General  Crozier  of 
the  Ordnance  Department,  which  was  in  the  nature  of  a  passport  for  our 
engineers  to  visit  water  intal^es  and  structures  that  were  under  guard  from 
alien  enemies. 

On  April  25  two  of  our  locating  engineers  were  sent  from  the  Wilmington 
office  to  the  field. 

Between  April  25th  and  July  12th  these  engineers  covered  Tennessee,  parts 
of  Alabama,  Kentucky,  Illinois,  Indiana,  West  Virginia,  and  the  southwestern 
part  of  Virginia  in  search  of  suitable  locations  for  smokeless-powder  plants. 

July  12th  to  -Sth  was  .spent  in  working  up  data  collected  by  the  field  en- 
gineers and  making  a  report  on  same. 

July  28th  to  August  3rd,  two  engineers  were  in  the  field  reconsidering  loca- 
tions and  a  definite  recommendation  was  made  for  the  selection  of  the  Charles- 
ton site. 

You  are  familiar  with  the  work  done  by  Col.  Buckner  during  approximately 
this  entire  time  in  endeavoring  to  bring  the  serious  situation  regarding  lack 
of  powder  manufacturing  capacity  before  the  proper  authorities  in  Washing- 
ton, this  we  understand  being  finally  accomplished  about  the  1st  of  October. 
At  this  time  we  have  ready  for  the  Government  consideration  twelve  suitable 
sites  for  smokeless-powder  plant  locations. 

On  October  4th  we  started  to  option  the  property. 

On  October  Sth  this  optioning  was  stopped  on  account  of  the  high  prices  of 
land. 

October  22d  to  28th,  one  of  our  engineers,  in  company  with  Col.  J.  C.  Nichols 
of  the  Ordnance  Department,  visited  the  various  sites  and  obtained  the  approval 
of  the  Ordnance  Department,  through  Col.  Nichols,  of  two  of  the  sites 
selected  by  us,  with  a  third,  smaller  in  area,  as  a  possibility. 

On  October  23rd  our  real  estate  department  resumed  optioning  the  Charleston 
site. 

On  October  31st  we  started  surveys  of  that  portion  of  site  under  option. 

On  November  13th  sufficient  of  topographical  map  was  received  from  the 
field  to  make  paper  location  of  plant. 

November  24th,  options  completed. 

November  19th  to  24th,  options  closed,  covering  1,390  acres  of  land  at  a  price 
of  $382,250.  Prior  to  that  date,  2,529i^  acres  of  land  at  a  price  of  $235,000  had 
been  optioned  on  Nashville  site. 

At  this  writing  the  topographical  map  of  Charleston  site  is  completed,  and 
paper  location  has  been  finished  in  this  office. 

Since  November  24th  (the  day  we  acquired  the  land)  we  have  been  ready  to 
start  active  construction  work  in  the  field. 

H.  M.  PiEBCE,  Chief  Engineer. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY  3125 

Exhibit  No.  1118 

E.  I.  Du  Pont  db  Nemours  &  Company, 

Wilmington,  Dela.,  March  22,  1917. 
Executive  offices. 
Houoiable  Newton  D.  Baker, 

Secretary  of  War,  Washington,  D.  C. 
Dear  Sir:  I  submit  herewith  some  data  with  respect  to  productiou  of  mili- 
tary explosives  and  raw  materials,  which  I  believe  will  be  of  interest  to  your 
department. 

If  additional  information  is  desired,  please  so  indicate  to  me  and  I  shall  be 
glad  to  supplement  the  enclosed  data. 

Copy  of  this  information  is  being  forwarded  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Navy. 
I  request  that  the  information  contained  herein  be  considered  strictly  con- 
fidential. 

"Very  truly  yours, 

E.  I.  DU  Pont  db  Nemours  &  Company. 
S     Pierre  S.  du  Pont,  President. 

MILITARY   SMOKELESS  POWDERS 

Our  orders  with  the  Entente  Allies  are  sufficient  to  run  our  factories  at  their 
full  rated  capacity  of  27,500,000  pounds  per  month  until  September  15,  1917. 
However,  the  contracts  do  not  make  necessary  the  production  of  more  than 
98.5  percent  of  this  amount,  so  that  there  is  available  beyond  contract  require- 
ments capacity  amounting  to  400,000  pounds  per  month.  In  addition  to  this 
we  are  building  additions  to  plant  which  should  give  additional  production  of 
2,300,000  pounds  per  month  beginning  with  June  next.  Further,  under  favor- 
able conditions  we  can  probably  make  3,000,000  pounds  per  month  above  our 
rated  capacity.  (By  rated  capacity  we  mean  the  production  that  is  practically 
certain  and  which  we  are  willing  to  sell  under  contract  for  specific  delivery, 
above  which  we  have  the  margin  indicated  which  can  be  produced  under  favor- 
able circumstances  but  which  we  do  not  believe  we  are  warranted  in  selling  for 
specific  delivery.) 

The  actual  production  of  our  factories  for  the  past  four  months  has  been: 
November  1916,  27,900,000  lbs. ;  December  1916,  28,050,000  lbs. ;  January  1917. 
30,850,000  lbs. ;  February  1917,  26,850,000  lbs. 

(March,  estimated,  30,500,000  to  31,000,000  lbs. 

nitrate  of  soda 

E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  purchases  nitrate  of  soda  for  the 
Hercules  Powder  Company  and  the  Atlas  Powder  Company  under  the  court 
dissolution  decision.  In  giving  statistics  it  is  convenient  to  make  statements 
of  the  total  purchases  for  the  three  companies.  The  situation  on  March  1st, 
1917,  was  as  follows  : 

On  hand :  Tons 

Hopewell,   Virginia 45,  227 

Carneys  Point,  N.  J 1,219 

Repauno,  N.  J 4,  615 

Barksdale,  Wis 5^  260 

Misc.  commercial  explosives  factories  in  United  States 37,017 

Total  at  du  Pont  plants  only 93,  333 

Hercules   Company 18, 979 

Atlas  Company 16'  902 

35,881 
Grand  total  on  hand  all  companies 129,219 


3126 


MUlsriTioisrs  industry 


In  addition  we  have  purchased  in  Chile,  South  America,  for  the  three  com- 
panies and  have  arranged  transportation,  so  that  there  will  be  on  hand  on 
the  first  of  each  month,  the  following : 


Apr.  1,  1917 110.  855 

May  1,  1917 112,  765 

June  1,   1917 106  765 

July  1,  1917 100,  865 

Aug.  1,  1917 102,  965 


Sept.  1,  1917 90.065 

Oct.  1,  1917 76,465 

Nov.  1,  1917 63,  465 

Dec.  1,  1917 50,  565 

Jan.  1,  1918 53,865 


We  have  ocean-tonnage  capacity  under  time  charter  sufficient  to  keep  us 
with  stocks  of  110,000  tons  on  hand  each  month  all  through  the  year  and  we 
could,  unless  something  unusual  happens  in  Chile,  purchase  the  balance  of 
soda  required. 

In  our  judgment  the  users  of  nitrate  in  this  country,  other  than  the  above, 
have  about  three  months'  supply  on  hand  and  have  contracts  for  delivery  in 
this  country  for  the  balance  of  the  year.  This  would  mean  that  these  other 
users  have  all-told  probably  100,000  tons  on  hand  and  33,000  tons  contracted  for 
monthly. 

COTTON 

Purified  cotton  at :  ■'^^s- 

Hopewell.   Virginia 3,  893,  640 

Carneys  Point,  N.  J 1,  465,  704 

Haskell.  N.  J 763,417 

Parlin,  N.  J 496,650 

Storage ,__, 4.  654,  672 


11, 274,  083 


Crude  cotton  expressed  as  equivalent  of  purified  cotton  : 

Hopewell.    Virginia 31,  700,  000 

Carneys  Point,  N.  J 1,  452,  500 


33. 152.  500 


Total  cotton  on  hand,  March  1st,  1917 44,  426,  580 

We  also  have  contracts  which  will  give  us  available  the  first  of  each  month,  in 
terms  of  purified  cotton  : 


Lis. 

April 40,  656, 120 

Ma.y 36,  885,  660 

June 33. 115,  200 

July 29,  344,  740 

Estimated  monthly  consumption  as  basis  for  above,  23,071,600, 


Lbs. 

August 25,  574,  280 

September 21.  803,  820 

October 21,  901,  360 


ALCOHOL 

At  a  factory  located  at  Georgetown,  South  Carolina,  our  company  manu- 
factures 2.000  gallons  only  per  day  of  ethyl  alcohol  from  wood  waste.  How- 
ever, we  have  outside  contracts  covering  the  full  requirements  of  our  smoke- 
less-powder factories  until  August  1st,  1917.  We  now  have  on  hand  and  en- 
route  to  factories  (3/1/17)  : 

Carneys  Point,  New  Jersey 12,  213,  860 

Parlin,  New  Jersey 3,  010,  989 

Haskell,  New  Jersey 1,  925,  808 

We  have  contracts  which  will  give  us  on  hand  the  first  of  each  month  the 
following  quantities : 


Pounds 

March 17, 150,  657 

April 18.  772, 105 

May 16,  772,  543 

June 19,  893,  981 

These  figures  are  based  on  using  13,878,562  lbs.  of  alcohol  per  month  and 
show  that  on  present  contracts  we  will  be  practically  out  of  alcohol  Septeni])er 
1.  1917. 


Pounds 

July 23, 015,  419 

August 14, 128,  857 

September 1,  212,  295 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3127 


We  have  ether  factories  at  our  smokeless  powder  plants  as  shown  below. 
The  factories  are  divided  into  seven  separate  units  and  produce  from  alcohol 
all  ether  requirements  for  military  powder  capacity.  Their  productive  capac- 
ity includes  the  ether  returned  from  solvent  recovery  of  powder  manufacture. 
In  addition  to  this  we  have  capacity  for  the  manufacture  of  70,000  pounds  per 
month  of  ether  for  anesthetic  purposes. 

Capacities  for  output  of  ether,  pounds  per  month 

Carney's  Point,  N.  J. : 

No.  1 4,  000,  OOO 

No.  2 6,  500,  000 

No.  3 4,  400,  000 

Haskell,  N.  J. : 

A 1, 000,  000 

B 1,  8U0,  000 

Parlin,  N.  J. : 

No.  1 1,  800,  000 

No.  2 2,  600,  000 

Total  pounds  per  month  including  the  reworking  of  recoveretl 
solvent 22, 100,  000 

(This  total  is  a  safe  figure  and  could  be  augmented  if  necessity  arose). 

TMNITBOTOLUOL 

Our  factories  can  produce  3,000,000  pounds  of  crude  trinitrotoluol,  melting 
point  760°  per  month ;  from  this  we  can  refine  by  crystalization  825,000  pounds 
per  month  melting  point  80°.  Our  greatest  three-months'  production  of  trinitro- 
toluol was  in  the  months  of: 

7ft° 

•^  Pounds 

September    1916 3,  235, 145 

October  1916 3,  440,  725 

November    1916 2,  855, 137 

The  largest  production  of  refined  was : 

^°  Pounds 

September  1916 556,  900 

October  1916 301,  870 

November  1916 455,  400 

December  1916 580, 130 

DIPHENYLAMINB 

We  have  at  our  factory  at  Repauno,  New  Jersey,  capacity  to  manufacture 
monthly  200,000  pounds  (sufficient  to  produce  our  entire  rated  output  of  military 
smokeless  powders  with  a  surplus  of  45,01K)  pounds  monthly).  The  raw  mate- 
rial for  this  manufacture  is  benzol,  of  which  sufficient  quantity  is  obtainable 
in  the  United  States. 

Stocks  on  hand  March  1,  1917  {pounds) 

Carneys  Point,  New  Jersey 103,  056 

Parlin,  New  Jersey 89,  844 

Haskell  New  Jersey 38,006 

Repauno,  New  Jersey 53,881 

284,  787 


3128 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTKY 
Forecast  of  future  prodiiction  (pounds) 


Month 


March 
April-. 
May... 
June— . 
July- 


Can 
make^ 


200,  000 
200,  000 
165, 000 
224,  000 
224, 000 


Have  use 
for— 


158,  000 
158,  000 
158,  000 
158,  000 
158, 000 


Excess 


42,  000 
42, 000 
7,000 
66. 000 
66,000 


(For  the  manufacture  of  sulphuric  acid) 

All  of  this  sulphur  is  in  the  form  of  brimstone  brought  from  Freeport  Sulphur 
Company,  Freeport,  Texas ;  Union  Sulphur  Company,  Sulphur  Mines,  Louisiana ; 
Yellowstone  Sulphur  Company,  Cody,  Wyoming. 

We  have  at  the  sulphuric-acid  factories  of  military  powder  plants  the  following 
amounts : 

Pounds 

Hopewell,  March  1st 28, 167,  303 

Carneys  Point,  March  1st 588,299 

Total 28,  755,  602 

In  addition  there  is  at  commercial  sulphuric-acid  plants  a  total  of  8,668,358 
pounds. 

We  also  have  at  our  black-powder  factories  scattered  throughout  the  country, 
3,373,919  and  12,042,277  pounds ;  total,  40,797,879  pounds. 

We  have  contracts  for  25,251,520  pounds  monthly  over  the  entire  year  from 
March  1st,  1917. 

CHARCOAL 

We  have  two  charcoal  factories  in  Michigan,  one  near  Bay  City,  the  other 
near  Grey  ling  (Crawford  County).  Their  production  is  all  that  will  be  neces- 
sary for  military  requirements.  In  addition,  manufacture  of  charcoal  could  be 
readily  started  at  other  points  should  demands  require. 

TOLUOL 

(For  the  manufacture  of  trinitrotoluol) 

We  have  on  hand  and  due  on  contracts  929,000  gallons.  Our  supplies  are 
generally  purchased  against  orders  which  are  now  at  a  minimum.  If  we  are 
to  be  called  upon  for  trinitrotoluol,  steps  should  be  taken  immediately  to  secure 
a  proper  supply  of  toluol.  The  production  of  the  country  is  sufficient  to  take 
care  of  the  needs  of  the  United  States. 

GLTOEBINE 

(For  the  production  of  nitroglycerine  and  dynamite) 

Since  the  beginning  of  the  European  war  the  United  States  has  relied  nearly 
entirely  upon  domestic  production  of  this  article.  Glycerine  for  large  quan- 
tities of  dynamite  manufactured  for  commercial  purposes  has  been  drawn 
from  this  source,  so  that  no  difficulty  should  arise  from  lack  of  glycerine 
supply  unless  the  Government  should  require  for  military  purposes  explosives 
other  than  those  in  present  use. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3129 

Exhibit  No.  1118-A 

minutes  of  meeting  of  the  genebal  munitions  boaed,  held  wednbslay,  april 
11,  1917,  at  8  :  15  a.  m.,  munsett  building 

There  were  present  Colonel  Dunn,  Major  Pierce,  Paymaster  Hancock,  Mr. 
Summers,  Mr.  Eiseman,  Mr.  Roseuwald,  Mr.  Scott,  Mr.  Bolton,  secretary.  Mr. 
Scott  presided. 

Report  on  conference  with  poivdei'  manufacturers. — Mr.  Scott  advised  the 
board  that  a  conference  had  been  held  yesterday  with  the  Du  Pont  powder 
people,  in  which  meeting  a  possible  shortage  of  powder  was  mentioned  and 
that  further  data  on  this  subject  was  being  compiled  by  the  Du  Pont  people 
and  would  be  submitted  by  them  at  an  early  date. 

The  meeting  adjourned  at  9 :  15  a.  m. 

Chester  C.  Bolton,  Secretary. 


Exhibit  No.  1119 

minutes  of  meeting  of  general  munitions  board  held  monday,  aprh,  16,  1917, 
at  8  :15  a.  m.,  munsey  building 

There  were  present :  Mr.  Scott,  Colonel  Blunt,  Colonel  Dunn,  Major  Pierce, 
Paymaster  Hancock,  Mr.  Summers,  Mr.  Rosenwald,  and  Mr.  Bingham,  Assist- 
ant Secretary.     Mr.  Scott  in  the  chair. 

Explosives. — The  chairman  reported  that  a  conference  had  been  held  yester- 
day with  Colonel  Dunn  and  representatives  of  the  Du  Pont  Powder  Company, 
at  which  it  was  decided  that  the  facilities  of  the  Aetna  Explosive  Company 
would  probably  not  be  needed. 

Major  Pierce  suggested  that,  due  to  the  location  of  the  Aetna  Explosive 
Company's  plants,  it  might  be  advisable  to  keep  them  in  operation. 

Colonel  Dunn  and  Mr.  Summers  were  appointed  a  committee  to  look  into 
this  matter  further. 

The  meeting  adjourned  at  10  o'clock  a.  m. 

W.  W.  Bingham, 
Assistant  Secretary. 


Exhibit  No.  1120 

MINUTES  OF  meeting  OF  GENERAL  MUNITIONS  BOARD  HELD  TUESDAY,  APRIL  17,   1917, 
AT  8  :  30  A.   M.,  IN  THE  MUNSEY  BUILDING 

There  were  present :  Colonel  H.  Fisher,  Dr.  R.  C.  Holcomb,  Dr.  T.  T.  Simp- 
son, Lt.  Commander  Gardner,  Commander  R.  H.  Leigh,  Paymaster  J.  H, 
Hancock,  Rear  Admiral  H.  H.  Rousseau,  Lt.  Col.  W.  B.  Lemly,  Rear  Admiral 
W.  S.  Capps,  Major  P.  E.  Pierce,  Capt.  A.  B.  Barber,  Gen.  Thos.  Cruse,  Colonel 
Blunt,  Colonel  Dunn,  Commander  T.  A.  Kearney,  Mr.  L.  McH.  Howe,  Mr.  Julius 
Rosenwald,  Mr.  F.  A.  Scott,  Mr.  C.  C.  Bolton,  secretary,  Mr.  Bernard  Baruch, 
Mr.  L.  L.  Summers,  representing  the  Raw  Materials  Committee.  Mr.  Scott 
presided. 

Conference  with  Du  Pont  Powder  People. — Mr.  Summers  presented  a  verbal 
report  on  conferences  held  with  the  repi'esentatives  of  the  Du  Pont  Powder 
Company  in  connection  with  the  advisability  of  continuing  the  Aetna  Powder 
Company,  who  at  present  ave  in  financial  Mr.  Summers  reported  that  the 
Aetna  people  had  had  valuable  experience  in  the  manufacture  of  smokeless 
powder.  He  also  spnke  of  the  activities  of  the  Du  Pont  Company  in  the  past 
and  tlieir  actual  dealings  with  the  Allies,  advising  tliat  they  were  contracted 
up  to  05%  of  their  capacity  until  October  1st,  and  that  they  had  a  capacity 
of  32,000,000  pounds  per  month.  He  stated  that  the  vital  thing  was  to  learn 
what  the  requirements  of  our  Army  were  in  order  to  ascertain  the  advisability 
of  continuing  the  Aetna  plant. 

In  connection  with  this  matter  Mr.  Summers  pointed  out  the  very  great  pos- 
sibility of  shortage  in  Army  requirements  and  estimates. 


3130 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


The  question  of  having  the  entire  powder  and  explosive  plants  in  one 
locality  under  one  control  was  discussed,  and  it  was  decided  to  hold  this  matter 
in  abeyance  until  Colonel  Dunn  and  Mr.  Summers  could  get  more  information. 

The  meeting  adjourned  at  10 :  30  a.  m. 

Chester  C.  Bolton,  Secretary. 


Exhibit  No.  1121 

War  DEPAETMBNr,  Office  of  the  Chief  of  Ordnance, 

Washington,  April  21,  1917. 
Mr.  F.  A.  Scott, 

Chairman,  General  Munitions  Board, 
Council  of  National  Defense, 

Munscy  Building,  Washington,  D.  C. 
Dear  Sir  :  1.  As  the  personal  representative  of  the  General  Munitions  Board 
in  this  particular  matter,  I  submit  the  following  report  of  the  conference  held 
in  the  oflSce  of  the  Chief  of  Ordnance  on  April  20,  1917,  with  companies  who 
are  manufacturers  of  nitrocellulose  smokeless  powder.  These  companies,  with 
their  representatives  present,  are  named  below : 

E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company,  Wilmington,  Del. :  Colonel  E.  G. 
Bucknei',  vice  president,  Mr.  C.  B.  Landis,  Mr.  H.  F.  Brown,  Major  K.  K.  V. 
Casey,  and  Mr.  L.  R.  Beardslee. 

Aetna  Explosives  Co.,  Inc.,  120  Broadway,  New  Yoi'k  City :  Colonel  Odus 
C.  Horney. 

Hercules  Powder  Company,  Wilmington,  Delaware:  Mr.  J.  T.  Skelley,  vice 
president. 

Western  Powder  Company,  Alton,  111. :  Mr.  F.  W.  Olin. 

There  was  also  present  Lieutenant  Caskey,  Bureau  of  Ordnance,  Navy 
Department,  as  representative  of  that  Department. 

2.  These  four  companies  had  been  previously  advised  that  the  present  and 
anticipated  needs  of  the  Ordnance  Department  of  the  Army  for  smokeless 
powder  during  the  next  twelve  months  amount  to — 

26,500,000  lbs.  of  caliber  .30  powder,  cannon  powder  of  web  thickness  less  than 

0.05,  and  approximately. 
42,000,000     " 
10,000,000     "     Seacoast  cannot  powder  for  6-inch  guns   and  above. 

3.  The  representatives  of  the  companies  were  requested  to  state  the  amounts 
of  powder  that  each  could  manufacture  with  existing  plants,  without  inter- 
fering with  existing  orders  for  either  the  United  States  or  for  the  Allies,  and 
furnished  the  following  information : 


Caliber  .30  powder 


Air  dried 

Water  dried 

E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co 

1,500,000  lb.  per  month  May  1  to 

Aetna  Explosives  Co 

30,000  lb. •  

Oct.  1:  3,175,000  lb.  per  month 
commencing  Oct.  1. 
30,000  lb.  per  month  beginning  in 

50,0001b 

two  months. 
200,000  lb.  per  month  beginning  at 

Western  Cartridge  Co.— 

200,000  lb.  per  month,  beginning 
in  four  months  or  earlier. 

once. 

'  The  representative  of  the  Aetna  Explosives  Company  stated  that  with  slight  modifications  the  capac- 
ity for  air-dried  powder  (caliber  .30)  could  be  increased  from  30,000  to  60,000  lb.  per  month. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY  3131 

Cannon  powder,  web  thk-kness  less  than  0.05 


Air  dried 


Water  dried 


E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co. 


Aetna  Explosives  Co... 
Hercules  Powder  Co... 
Western  Cartridge  Co. 


No  capacity. 


1,650,000  lb.  in  June,  3,350,000  in  July, 
2,220,000  in  Aug.,  1,600,000 in  Sept.,  1,350,000 
in  Oct.,  23,000,000.  in  November,  and  each 
succeeding  month. 

1,500,000  lb.  beginning  in  5  months. 

1,000,000  lb.  beginning  January  1918. 

No  capacity. 


Seacoast  cannon  powder  for  6-inch  and  larger  cannon 

Air  dried 

Western  Cartridge  Co No  capacity 

Hercules  Powder  Co Do. 

Aetna  Explosives  Co 200,000  lb.  per  month,  beginning  in  five  months 

E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  submitted  a  schedule  under  which  the  entire 
requirements  of  the  Army  could  be  completed  by  January  1918,  and  the  entire 
Navy  requirements  within  the  time  indicated  by  tlie  representative  of  the 
Bureau  of  Ordnance,  Navy  Department,  as  desirable. 

4.  The  representatives  of  the  various  companies  were  requested  to  state  the 
minimum  price  at  which  they  would  agree  to  furnish  this  powder,  delivered 
f.  o.  b.  the  contractor's  worlds,  the  prices  to  be  exclusive  of  the  cost  of  the 
containers  which  may  or  may  not  be  furnished  by  the  Government.  Colonel 
Horney  stated  he  had  noticed  in  the  papers  that  the  Aetna  Explosives  Company 
had  been  placed  in  the  hands  of  the  receivers,  and  tliat  lie  was,  therefore, 
unable  to  submit  a  flat  price;  he  withdrew  from  the  conference.  The  repre- 
sentatives of  the  other  companies  submitted  slips  ui>on  which  were  written 
their  flat  prices,  which  were  then  made  public. 

The  Du  Pont  Company  is  willing  to  furnish  caliber  .30  powder,  water  dried, 
at  600  per  pound ;  cannon  powder,  water  dried,  at  47%^  per  pound,  and  air- 
dried  cannon  powder  at  500  per  pound. 

The  Hercules  Powder  Company  is  willing  to  furnish  caliber  .30  powder, 
water  dried,  at  62% 0,  air  dried  at  650  a  pound,  and  cannon  powder  of  web 
thicliness  less  than  0.05,  water  dried,  at  471^0,  based  upon  present  cost  of  raw 
materials  and  ability  to  procui-e  the  same. 

The  Western  Cartridge  Company  is  willing  to  furnish  caliber  .30  air-dried 
powder  at  620  a  pound,  based  upon  last  invoices  covering  purchases  prior  to 
this  date  for  alcohol,  soda,  and  sulphuric  acid. 

5.  A  general  discussion  of  the  cost  of  powder  followed,  and  it  was  finally 
agreed  that  any  company  would  accept  an  order  for  such  of  the  powder  as  it 
could  manufacture  at  the  following  prices  per  pound,  f.  o.  b.  the  works  of  the 
contractor,  cost  exclu.sive  of  that  of  container : 


Air  dried 


Caliber  .30  powder 

Cannon  powder,  web  thickness  less  than  0.05 

Seacoast  cannon  powder  for  6-inch  cannon  and  above. 


6.  The  companies  were  informed  that  it  is  not  the  present  policy  to  urge  an 
increase  of  capacity  where  existing  free  capacity  is  in  excess  of  estimated 
requirements. 

7.  In  November  1016,  the  Depnilment  placed  orders  for  air  dried  cannon 
powder  at  520  and  530  a  pound,  and  for  water  dried  cannon  powder  at  51^ 
and  520  a  pound.  Orders  were  placed  on  April  10,  1917,  for  water  dried  cannon 
powder  at  47^:0  a  pound  and  air  dried  powder  at  500  a  pound.  These  last 
prices  are  lower  than  tlie  present  cost  of  manufacturing  this  powder  at  the 
Army  powder  factory. 

8.  In  November  1916,  the  Department  placed  orders  for  caliber  .30  powder 
at  650  a  pound,  and  the  prices  at  which  the  companies  now  offer  to  malie  this 


3132 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


powder  are  not  only  lower,  but  are  less  than  the  cost  of  manufacturing  this 
powder  at  the  Army  powder  factory. 

9.  It  is,  therefore,  recommended  that  the  Genetal  Munitions  Board  inform  the 
Chief  of  Ordnance,  U.  S.  Army,  that  it  considers  the  prices  enumerated  in 
paragraph  5  fair  and  just,  and  that  orders  should  be  placed  so  as  not  to  neces- 
sitate an  increase  in  the  present  total  capacity,  unless  all  demands  increase 
beyond  that  capacity. 

10.  I  inclose  a  proposed  draft  of  a  letter  to  the  Chief  of  Ordnance,  U.  S.  Army, 

/s/     Jay  E.  Hoffer, 
Lieutenant  Colonel,  Ordnance  Department. 
1  inc. 

PEOPOSED  DRAFT  OF  A  LEITTEB  TO  THE  CHIEF  OF  OEDNANCB,  U.   S,  A. 

Sir  :  1.  The  General  Munitions  Board,  having  been  verbally  requested  by 
you  to  determine  what  is  a  fair  and  just  price  to  be  paid  by  the  Government 
to  the  manufacturers  of  smokeless  powder  required  to  be  made  for  the  Army 
during  the  next  eighteen  months,  and  having  made  what  is  considered  a  satis- 
factory investigation,  recommends  to  you  as  fair  and  just  the  prices  shown  in 
the  following  table,  which  prices  are  to  be  exclusive  of  the  cost  of  container 
and  f.  o.  b.  contractor's  works : 


Air-dried 


Caliber  .30  powder 

Cannon  powder,  web  thickness  less  than  0.05 

Seacoast  cannon  powder  for  6-inch  cannon  and  above. 


Cents  per 
pound 


2.  The  General  Munitions  Board  favors  the  contracts  being  so  drawn  as  to 
protect  both  the  manufacturer  and  the  Government  on  the  present  prices  of  the 
principal  raw  materials  that  enter  into  the  manufacture. 

3.  The  Board  recommends  that  the  orders  be  so  placed  as  not  to  necessitate 
at  this  time  an  increase  in  the  total  capacity  of  the  United  States  for  the 
manufacture  of  this  class  of  material,  unless  such  action  is  found  necessary 
in  view  of  greatly  increased  needs  of  the  Entente  Allies  or  of  this  Government. 


Sib; 


April  27,  1917. 


1.  The  General  Munitions  Board,  having  been  verbally  requested  by  you  to 
determine  what  is  a  fair  and  just  price  to  be  paid  by  the  Government  to  the 
manufacturers  of  smokeless  powder  required  to  be  made  for  the  Army  during 
the  next  18  months,  and  having  made  what  is  considered  a  satisfactory  investi- 
gation, recommends  to  you  as  fair  and  just  the  prices  shown  in  the  following 
table,  which  prices  are  to  be  exclusive  of  the  cost  of  container  and  f.  o.  b. 
contractor's  works : 


Water  dried    Air  dried 


Caliber  .30  powder. 

Cannon  powder,  web  thickness  less  than  0.05 

Seacoast  cannon  powder  for  6-inch  cannon  and  above. 


Cents  per 
pound 
60 


Cents  per 
pound 


2.  The  General  Munitions  Board  favors  the  contracts  being  so  drawn  as  to 
protect  both  the  manufacturer  and  the  Government  on  the  present  prices  of  the 
principal  raw  materials  that  enter  into  the  manufacture. 

3.  The  Board  recommends  that  the  orders  be  so  placed  as  not  to  necessitate 
at  this  time  an  increase  in  the  total  capacity  of  the  United  States  for  the  manu- 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTKY  3133 

facture  of  this  class  of  material,  unless  such  action  is  found  necessary  in  view 
of  greatly  increased  needs  of  the  Entente  Allies  or  of  this  Government. 
Respectfully, 


Chairman  General  Munitions  Board. 
Brig.  Genl.  William  Croziee, 

Chief  of  Ordnance,  War  Department, 

Washington,  D.  C. 


Exhibit  No.  1122 

ajh/ig 
War  Department, 
Office  of  the  Chief  of  Ordnance, 

Washinffton,  June  SO,  1917. 
Mr.  Frank  A.  Scott, 

Chairman  General  Munitioym  Board, 
Council  of  National  Defense, 

Munsey  Building,  Washington,  D.  C. 
Deab  Sie  :  I  desire  to  invite  attention  to  my  letter  of  April  21st,  1917,  and  to 
your  reply  fixing  the  price  of  smokeless  powder  as  follows : 


Water  dried 


Air  dried 


Caliber  .03  powder 

Cannon  powder,  web  thickness  less  than  .05 

Seacoast  cannon  powder  for  6-inch  cannon  and  above. 


Cents  per 
pound 
60 
47H 


Cents  per 
pound 

62 
60 
60 


2.  I  have  recently  had  a  conference  with  the  representatives  of  the  E.  I. 
du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company,  who  have  urged  that  the  price  of  the  caliher 
.30  powder  manufactured  after  December  31st,  1917,  and  the  price  of  the  can- 
non powder  manufactured  after  February  28,  1918,  be  increased  20  a  pound  to 
meet  the  increase  in  the  price  of  manufacture,  especially  due  to  the  increased 
cost  of  raw  materials.  These  increased  prices  ai-e  less  than  the  prices  at  which 
the  powder  can  be  manufactured  at  the  Army  powder  factory  at  Picatinny 
Arsenal,  and  from  our  careful  observation  of  the  prices  of  raw  materials,  I  am 
satisfied  that  the  increased  price  after  the  dates  indicated  is  fair  and  just,  as 
compared  with  the  prices  recommended  in  my  letter  of  April  21st,  1917,  and  con- 
curred in  by  the  General  Munitions  Board. 

3.  I  am,  therefore,  placing  orders  which  obligate  the  Government  to  pay  the 
increased  prices  referred  to  above,  and  in  the  procurement  of  additional  quan- 
tities it  may  be  necessary  to  make  further  concessions  in  price  for  the  same 
causes. 

Respectfully, 

/s/    Wm.  Crozier, 
Brig.  Genl.,  Chief  of  Ordnance. 


Exhibit  No.  1123 
E.  I.  DU  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company 

military    sales   department — OFFICE   OF   E.    G.    BUCKNER,    VICE   PRESIDENT 

Wilmington,  Del.,  July  30th,  1917. 
Mr,  F.  A.  Scott, 

Chairman  Munitions  Board,  Council  of  National  Defense, 

Washington,  D.  C. 
Dear  Sir  :  Having  noted  by  the  papers  that  you  have  been  appointed  chair- 
man of  the  committee  in  charge  of  the  purchase  of  munitions,  etc.,  we  feel 


3134  MUNITIONS    INDUSTBY 

it  our  duty  to  call  your  attention  to  some  Important  facts  in  relation  to  the 
powder  situation  in  this  country  for  the  United  States  and  the  Allied  Gov- 
ernments. 

The  du  Pont  Company,  as  you  know,  has  a  smokeless  powder  capacity  of 
approximately  31,875,000  pounds  per  month.  We  have  uniilled  contracts  and 
orders  as  follows : 

Pounds 

U.  S.  Army — aggregating  approximately 67,000,000 

U.  S.  Navy — aggregating  approximately 5G,  000,  000 

England— aggregating  approximately IGO,  000,  OOO 

France— aggregating   approximately 7i"),  000,  000 

Italy — aggregating  approximately 25,  000,  000 

The  above  contracts  will  require  our  entire  manufacturing  capacity  up  to 
and  including  the  month  of  May  1918  and  the  U.  S.  Government  c(mtracts  con- 
tinue throughout  the  year  1918.  The  net  result  is  that  we  now  have  unsold 
manufacturing  capacity  as  follows : 

I'ollIKh: 

June  1918 15,  590,  000 

July  1918 26,  075,  000 

August  1918 20,075,000 

September  1918 26,075,  000 

October  1918 28,  875,  000 

November  1918 28,  875,  OOO 

December  1918 28,  875,  000 

January  1919 29, 175,  000 

February  1919 31,  875,  000 

— and  the  succeeding  months  the  same. 

The  Ordnance  Department  of  the  Army  has  already  asked  us  to  reserve  for 
the  Army  our  entire  unsold  capacity,  and  we  feel  confident  that  the  Allied 
Governments  will  require  large  additional  quantities  of  powder.  In  fact,  we 
understand  informally  that  the  U.  S.  Government  will  require  within  the  next 
twelve  to  fourteen  months  close  to  three  hundred  million  pounds  in  addition 
to  the  capacity  that  we  have  available  within  that  time.  How  this  large 
amount  of  powder  is  going  to  be  supplied  to  the  United  States  and  the  Allied 
Governments  v.-e  do  not  know,  unless  all  the  Allied  Governments  confer  upon 
the  subject  and  determine  upon  a  plan  of  procedure  which  will  involve  the 
construction  of  increased  capacity. 

There  are  in  existence  a  small  number  of  competitors  of  the  du  Pont  Com- 
pany— we  do  not  know  whether  their  capacity  has  been  sold  or  not — but  we 
are  inclined  to  believe  that  they  probably  have  some  inisold  capacity.  We  do 
not  think  it  will  amount  to  a  large  quantity  compared  to  the  total  requirements. 

The  only  suggestion  that  we  can  make  is  that  steps  be  taken  at  once  to  aug- 
ment the  supply  of  powder  by  building  additional  plants.  To  this  end  we  have 
prepared  plans  by  which  three  million  pounds  per  month  additional  capacity 
can  be  provided  beginning  with  the  month  of  January  1918.  which  would  require 
an  amortization  charge  aggregating  approximately  .$4,500,000.00.  Beyond  this 
we  could  build  plants  to  supply  an  additional  10,000,000  pounds  of  powder  per 
month,  but  this  capacity  could  not  be  made  available  in  less  than  32  months' 
time  and  would  require  an  amortization  charge  of  something  over  30^  per 
pound  of  outjnit  upon  a  twelve  months'  contract — based  upon  today's  cost  of 
materials  and  construction  work.  Owing  to  the  increase  in  price  of  various 
materials — labor,  etc. — this  expense  may  be  considerably  increased  if  there  is 
any  delay  in  starting  this  work. 

From  the  foregoing  you  will  readily  see  that  it  is  quite  important  for  the 
United  States  and  the  Allied  Governments  to  at  once  reach  some  conclusion 
as  to  what  amount  of  powder  they  will  require  and  what  plans  should  be 
adopted  to  provide  the  same.  The  English  and  French  Governments  were  very 
mucli  disappointed  that  they  could  not  purchase  a  larger  quantity  from  us  for 
delivery  up  to  June  of  next  year,  and  in  view  of  the  estimated  requirements 
of  the  U.  S.  Government,  in  addition  to  those  of  the  Allies,  we  fear  that  there 
may  be  a  serious  disappointment  in  the  powder  supply  for  all  the  Allied  Gov- 
ernments beyond  next  June  unless  prompt  and  urgent  methods  be  taken  to 
augment  present  capacity.- 
Very  truly  yours, 

E.  I.  DuPONT  DE  NeMOXJKS  &  COMPANY, 

By  /s/    E.  G.  BuoKNEB,  Vice  President. 
B/c 


MUNITIONS    IND'JSTRY  3135 

Exhibit  No.  1124 
E.  I.  DU  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company 

Wilmington,  Delaicare,  August  ninth,  1917. 

MILITARY    SAI^S    DEPARTMENT,    OFFICE   OP   E.    G.    BUCKNER,    VICE   PRESIDENT 

Powder  situation. 

Mr.  F,  A.  Scott,  Chairman,  Munitions  Board,  Council  of  Nafl.  Defense, 

Washington,  D.  C. 

Dear  Sir:  Referring  to  my  letter  of  July  thirtieth,  in  order  th;it  you  may 
be  fully  posted  as  to  the  powder  situation,  we  beg  to  enclose  copy  of  our 
letter  of  August  eighth  to  Colonel  Tschekaloff  of  the  Russian  Commission  in 
reply  to  his  inquiry  for  an  offering  on  18,000,000  to  20,000,000  pounds  of  smoke- 
less powder. 

You  will  note  that  we  have  made  the  same  suggestion  to  him  as  contained 
in  our  letter  of  July  thirtieth,  tliat  it  would  be  very  desirable  if  representatives 
of  all  the  Allied  governments  could  confer  and  determine  upon  the  best  plan 
for  supplying  their  powder  requirements. 
Yours  very  truly, 

/s/    E.  G.  BucKNER,  Vice  President. 
LRB :  c  end. 

[Copy  to  :  Mr.  Frank  A.  Scott,  Chairman  Munitions  Board,  Council  of  National  Defense, 

Wasbington,   D.    C] 

E,  I.  DU  PoNT  DB  Nemours  &  Company, 
Wilmington,  Delaware,  August  eighth,  1911. 

MILITARY    SALES    DEPARTMENT,    OFFICE    OF    E.    G.    BUCKNEK,    VICE    PRESIDENT 

Colonel  A.  N.  Tschekaloff, 

Building. 

Deiar  Sir:  Replying  to  your  letter  of  August  sixth,  no.  1858,  asking  if  we  can 
accept  a  contract  for  nine  thousand  (9,000)  to  ten  thousand  (10,000)  short  tons 
of  cannon  powder  to  be  delivered  by  January  first,  1918,  we  regret  exceedingly 
to  advise  you  that  because  of  large  purchases  made  by  the  United  States  and 
other  Allies,  it  will  not  be  possible  for  us  to  submit  any  offering  for  additional 
powder  for  delivery  by  January  first,  1918,  neither  will  it  be  possible  for  us 
to  manufacture  any  additional  quantities  for  a  considerable  time  thereafter^ 
except  by  an  arrangement  to  build  additional  facilities. 

It  looks  to  us  that  all  of  the  Allies  may  want  more  powder  than  the  present 
plants  will  be  able  to  supply  and  that  it  would  be  a  very  desirable  thing  for 
representatives  of  the  different  governments  to  confer  upon  this  situation  with 
a  view  to  arranging  for  their  requirements  in  the  most  economical  manner. 
We  beg  to  suggest,  therefore,  that  your  commission  confer  with  the  representa- 
tives of  the  other  Allies  in  regard  to  this  situation. 

We  would  be  glad  to  take  up  the  matter  of  building  additional  plants  to 
supply  the  increased  needs  if  the  same  is  desired  and  if  suitable  arrangements- 
can  be  made  for  the  extra  cost  of  building  same,  etc. 

Thanking  you  for  your  inquiry  and  regretting  that  we  cannot  make  you  a 
definite  offer  at  this  time,  we  are, 
Yours  very  truly, 

LRB :  c 

E.  I.  DU  Pont  de  Nemoubs  &  Company, 
/s/     E.  G.  Buckner,  Vice  President. 


3136 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


Exhibit  No.  1125 
[eck-ia] 

War   DE3'ARTMETSrT, 

G^m  Division,  October  4th,  1911. 
Subject :  Smokeless  powder. 
War  Industries  Board, 

Council  of  Natio)ial  Defense, 

Munsey  Building,  Washington,  D.  C. 
Gentlemen  :   1.  I   am   directed   by   the   Chief  of  Ordnance  to   acknowledge 
receipt  of  your  report  of  the  26th  instant  signed  by  Mr.  L.  L.  Summers. 

2.  It  is  noted  that  the  present  total  orders  for  smokeless  powder  of  the 
British  Ministry  of  Munitions  cover  their  requirements  until  the  end  of  Octo- 
ber 1918. 

3.  It  is  also  noted  that  they  are  willing  to  postpone  the  manufacture  of  some 
14,000.000  lbs.  to  be  manufactured  at  rate  of  3,500,000  lbs.  from  the  months  of 
November  1917  to  February  1918,  inclusive,  to  July  to  October  1918,  inclusive. 

4.  Arrangements  have  already  been  made  h^  this  department  with  your  board 
and  the  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  to  take  this  quantity  of  14,000.000 
lbs.  of  powder  at  monthly  rate  of  3,500,000  lbs.,  beginning  November  of  this  year. 

Respectfully, 

/s/    Jay  E.  Hoffer, 
Colonel,  Ordance  Department. 

[aje/ia] 

Subject:  Smokeless  powder. 

War  Deipartment, 
Gun  Division,  Office  of  the  Chief  of  Obdnancb, 

October  4,  1917. 
Wab  Industries  Board, 

Council  of  National  Defense,  Munsey  Building, 

Washington,  D.  C. 
Gentlemen  :  1.  I  am  directed  by  the  Chief  of  Ordnance  to  inform  you  that 
the  ammunition  requirements  of  this  Department,  covered  by  money  now  avail- 
able or  requested  from  Congress,  call  for  some  315,000,000  lbs.  of  smokeless 
powder  to  be  manufactured  prior  to  September  1st,  1918.  It  is  also  thought 
that  monthly  requirements  for  smokeless  powder  from  September  until  Jan- 
uary 1919  may  amount  to  some  50,000,000  lbs.  of  smokeless  powder.  The 
requirements  of  this  Department  prior  to  January  1st,  1919,  may,  therefore, 
total  some  500,000.000  lbs.  of  smokeless  powder. 

2.  So  far  as  this  Department  is  able  to  determine  an  available  capacity 
exists  as  follows : 


Month 


du  Pont  Co. 


Hercules  Co. 


Aetna  Explo- 
sive Co. 


Accumulative 
total 


Nov.  '17. 
Dec.  "  .. 
Jan.  '18. 
Feb.  "  . 
Mar.  "  . 
Apr.  "  . 
May  "  . 
June  "  . 
July  "  . 
Aug.  "  . 
Sept.  "  . 
Oct.  "  . 
Nov.  "  . 
Dec.    "  . 


Totals. 


15,  590, 000 
22,  575, 000 
22,  575, 000 
22,  575, 000 
25,  375,  000 
28,  875.  000 
28, 875, 000 


166, 440, 000 


1, 000, 000 
1, 000, 000 
1, 000, 000 
1, 000, 000 
1,  000,  000 
1,000,000 
1, 000, 000 
1, 000, 000 
1,000,000 
1, 000, 000 
1,  000, 000 
1, 000. 000 


3, 000, 000 
3, 000, 000 
3, 000, 000 

3,  000, 000 
3, 000, 000 
4, 000, 000 
4, 000, 000 
4, 000, 000 
4, 000, 000 
4, 000, 000 
4, 000, 000 
4, 000, 000 
4, 000, 000 

4,  000, 000 


12, 000, 000 


51, 000, 000 


3, 000, 000 

6, 000, 000 

10,  000, 000 

14, 000, 000 

18, 000, 000 

23, 000, 000 

28, 000, 000 

48,  590, 000 

76, 165, 000 

103,  740, 000 

131,315,000 

161,690,000 

195,  565, 000 

229,  440, 000 


229, 440, 000 


Note.— While  the  Aetna  Explosives  Company  have  submitted  the  above 
quantities  as  their  possible  plant  capacity  it  is  understood  that  they  are  not 
at  present  provided  with  an  organization  capable  of  turning  out  the  above 
quantities  of  powder.  It  is  also  understood  that  of  this  Aetna  capacity 
1,500,000  lbs.  are  at  their  Drummondsville  plant  in  Canada. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3137 

3.  From  the  above  table  of  Ciipacities  it  is  therefore  seen  that  the  require- 
ments of  this  Department  cannot  be  met  with  the  present  available  capacity 
even  though  all  could  be  utilized  by  this  Department. 

4.  The  Department  is  now  prepared  to  place  firm  orders  for  all  of  the  above 
quantity  of  powder. 

5.  Tentative  arrangements  were  made  some  time  ago  with  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 
Nemours  &  Company  that  they  hold  all  of  the  above  capacity  for  this  De- 
partment. 

6.  This  oflice  is  also  negotiating  with  the  Hercules  Powder  Company  and 
with  the  Aetna  Explosives  Company  in  an  effort  to  make  definite  arrange- 
ments with  them  to  utilize  their  capacity. 

7.  Definite  information  is  requested  as  to  what  part  of  the  above  capacities 
for  pciwler  can  be  negotiated  lor  by  this  Department  so  that  these  orders  can 
be  definitely  placed  and  arrangements  made  to  develop  the  increased  capacity 
necessary  to  meet  the  requirements. 

Respectfully, 

/s/    Jay  E.  Hoffer,  Colonel  Ordnance  Department. 


Exhibit  No.  1126 

[Copied  from  flle  no.  G-728-323E.     E-471.0-324] 

E.  I.  DU  Pont  db  Nemours  &  Company 

MILITARY    SAXES    DEPARTMENT,    OFFICE   OF    B.    Q.    BUCKNER,    VICE    PRESIDENT 

Address  reply   to  room  996,  du  Pont  Bldg. 

Wilmington,   Delaware,    October  8,  1917. 
Chief  of  Ordnance,  U.  S.  A., 

Washiriffton,  D.  C. 
Sib  :  In  accordance  with  your  request  of  October  3d,  we  submit  the  follow- 
ing proposition  to  the  Government : 

1.  Whenever  the  words  "  Du  Pont  Company  "  are  used  in  this  proposal,  they 
shall  be  taken  to  mean  either  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  and  Company,  a 
corporation,  or  a  company  to  be  organized  by  it  for  the  purpose  of  carrying 
out  this  proposal  if  accepted,  and  wherever  in  this  proposal  the  word  "  Gov- 
ernment "  is  used,  it  shall  be  taken  to  mean  the  Govei-nment  of  the  United 
States  of  America. 

2.  We  understand  that  the  Government  desires  the  construction,  as  soon 
as  possible,  of  complete  plants  for  the  manufacture  of  water-dried  smokeless 
powder  for  cannon,  of  the  capacity  of  approximately  one  million  (1,000,000) 
pounds  of  powder  per  day  of  twenty-four  hours,  said  plants  to  be  located  on 
two  or  more  sites  to  be  selected  by  the  Du  Pont  Company,  and  to  include  also 
sulphuric  and  nitric  acid  manufacturing  and  recovei'y  plants,  cotton  purifica- 
tion, gun  cotton,  water  supply,  waste  disposal,  power,  lines  of  communication 
and  transmission,  store  houses,  freight  yards  with  standard-gauge  tracks, 
plants  for  the  manufacture  of  ether  and  diphenylaniine,  houses  for  employees  to 
the  extent  provided  at  the  existing  plants  of  the  Du  Pont  Company,  admin- 
istrative buildings,  laboratories,  shops,  box  factories,  etc.,  all  of  which,  based 
on  our  past  experience  and  best  knowledge  and  with  allowance  made  for 
increased  cost  of  construction  work,  will  cost  according  to  our  best  estimate 
approximately  ninety  million  dollars   ($90,000,000). 

3.  The  Du  Pont  Company  proposes  to  act  as  agent  for  the  Government  in  the 
selection  of  two  or  more  sites  for  the  location  of  said  plants  and  in  the  purchase 
of  all  necessary  land,  materials,  and  equipment  and  in  the  furnishing  of  all 
necessary  labor  for  the  erection  and  completion  of  plants  capable  of  producing 
approximate'y  1,000,000  pounds  per  day  of  water-dried  smokeless  cannon  pow- 
der, with  all  reasonable  dispatch,  and  will  furnish  the  necessary  plans  for  the 
construction  thereof,  it  being  understood  that  in  order  to  expedite  construction 
and  insure  satisfactory  and  economical  operation  the  Du  Pont  Company  shall 
be  free  to  exercise  its  judgment  as  to  the  plans,  materials,  and  equipment  to 
be  used  in  the  C(nistruction  of  said  plants  and  in  the  arrangement  tliereof. 

4.  In  selecting  the  sites,  procuring  the  land,  acquiring  materials,  machinery, 
and  equipment  and  employing  the  labor  for  the  completion  of  said  plants,  as 


3138  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

well  as  in  tlie  operation  of  said  plants  when  completed,  the  Du  Pont  Company 
will  act  solely  as  the  agent  of  the  Government,  with  the  usual  power  and 
authority  of  an  agent  to  contract  for  and  in  the  name  of  his  principal,  and 
any  expenditure  or  obligation  arising  or  growing  out  of  the  construction  or 
operation  of  said  plants  made  or  incurred  by  the  Du  Pont  Company,  together 
with  any  and  all  loss  by  accident,  fire,  flood,  or  explosion,  arising  or  growing 
out  of  the  construction  and  operation  of  said  plants,  will  be  for  the  account  of 
the  Government,  who  shall  at  all  times  indemnify  and  hold  the  Du  Pont  Com- 
pany harmless  therefrom,  and  the  Government  will  at  all  times  during  the 
construction  and  operation  of  said  plants  furnish  the  Du  Pont  Company  suffi- 
cient funds  to  enable  it  to  meet  and  pay  all  bills  and  other  obligations  for 
land,  material,  equipment,  labor,  etc.,  as  and  when  the  same  become  due  and 
payable,  and  shall  promptly  repay  the  Du  Pont  Company  for  any  expenditure 
paid  or  laid  out  by  it  on  account  of  the  construction  and  operation  of  sujd 
plants. 

5.  On  the  first  of  each  month,  during  the  time  said  plants  are  under  con- 
struction, the  Du  Pont  Company  will  furnish  to  the  Government  a  statement 
of  the  expenditures  made  during  the  preceding  month  for  land,  materials, 
equipment,  labor,  including  superintendence  of  construction  in  the  field,  fire  and 
liability  insurance,  and  any  other  expenditure  paid  or  laid  out  on  account  of 
the  construction  of  said  plants,  and  the  Government  will  within  five  days  there- 
after pay  to  the  Du  Pont  Company  as  its  charges  for  the  following  services, 
the  following  percentages  on  the  total  amount  of  such  expenditures  made  dur- 
ing the  previous  month,  viz :  For  drawing  plans  and  engineering  supervision 
from  the  Wilmington  office,  five  percent  (5%)  ;  for  purchasing  and  urging  de- 
liveries of  material  by  Wilmington  office  two  percent  (2%)  ;  for  compensation, 
including  administration  and  other  services  rendered  from  the  Wilmington 
oflice,  eight  percent  (S%). 

6.  The  Du  Pont  Company  will  use  its  best  efforts  to  construct  said  plants  as 
quickly  as  possible,  in  units  having  a  capacity  of  100,000  pounds  each  i)er  day 
of  twenty-four  hours,  and  estimates  that  the  first  unit  can  be  constructed  and 
begin  operation  about  eight  montlis  from  the  date  the  land  is  secured,  and  that 
additional  units  may  be  completed  one  each  month  thereafter,  so  that  the  full 
output  may  be  reached  in  about  eighteen  months.  The  above  is  our  best  esti- 
mate, it  being  understood  that  the  date  of  completion  depends  largely  upon 
the  extent  of  the  cooperation  given  us  by  the  Government  in  obtaining  con- 
struction materials,  equipment,  and  workmen. 

7.  This  offer  to  act  as  agent  for  the  Government  in  and  about  the  matters 
set  forth  herein  is  conditioned  that  as  units  of  manufacture  are  completed  and 
ready  for  operation  the  Government  will  appoint  the  Du  Pont  Company  its 
agent  to  operate  said  units  or  plants  for  at  least  eighteen  months  after  their 
completion,  if  said  plants  are  operated. 

8.  As  units  are  completed  and  put  in  operation  the  Du  Pont  Company  will  use 
its  best  efforts  to  operate  the  same  to  their  full  capacity  upon  the  following 
basis : 

The  Government  will  pay  all  the  cost  and  expenses  of  the  operation  of  said 
plants  as  and  when  they  become  due  and  payable,  and  in  addition  thereto  will, 
on  or  before  the  15th  day  of  each  month,  pay  to  the  Du  I'ont  Company  five  cents 
(5c)  per  pound  on  all  powder  manufactured  and  packed  during  the  previous 
month  as  payment  for  main  office  supervision,  administrative  and  purchasing 
expense,  and  compensation  to  Du  Pont  Company,  and  in  addition  thereto,  should 
the  total  mill  co.st  of  water-dried  smokeless  powder,  exclusive  of  boxes,  amorti- 
zation, and  depreciation  of  plant,  but  including  all  ingredients,  labor  in  opera- 
tion, labor  and  materials  in  repairs,  power,  transportation,  general  works  ex- 
pense, works  accident,  plant  superintendence,  be  less  than  forty-four  and  a  half 
cents  (44i^(/:)  per  pound  in  any  month,  the  Government  will  pay  the  Du  Pont 
Company  one-half  the  difference  between  the  said  mill  cost  and  forty-four  and  a 
half  cents  (44%^)  per  pound  as  illustrated  in  the  following  table : 


MUNITIONS    IlfDUSTRY 


3139 


Mill  cost  of 

Cost  to 

Du  Font's 

powder 

Government 

compensation 

Cents 

Cents 

Cents 

46.5 

51.5 

5 

45.5 

50.5 

5 

44.5 

49.5 

5 

42.5 

48.5 

6 

40.5 

47.5 

7 

Etc. 

Etc. 

Etc. 

(1)  It  is  understood  that  general  works  expense,  referred  to  above,  includes 
such  items  as : 

Mill  office  expense,  watchman,  hospital,  safety,  laboratory,  welfare,  sanitation, 
fire  protection,  telephones,  drafting  and  surveying,  ballistics,  boats  and  wharves, 
photography,  salvage,  subsistence,  tenant  houses,  automobiles,  mechanical  trans- 
portation, cleaning  and  grading,  tools,  roads  and  railroads,  stables,  general 
buildings  and  shops,  police  protection,  taxes,  reclamation  on  returned  powder, 
stores  inventory  adjustment,  other  works  expense. 

In  case  the  Government  requires  a  part  of  tlie  powder  to  be  air-dried,  the 
mill-cost  basis,  on  such  air-dried  powder,  will  be  increased  two  and  a  half 
cents  (21/^^)  per  pound,  and  the  cost  to  the  Goveniment  and  compensation  to 
the  du  Pont  Company  would  be  as  illustrated  in  the  following  table : 


Mill  cost  of 

Cost  to 

du  Font's 

powder 

Qovernment 

compensation 

Cents 

Cents 

Cenf^ 

49 

54 

5 

48 

53 

5 

47 

52 

5 

45 

51 

6 

43 

50 

7 

41 

49 

8 

Etc. 

Etc. 

Etc. 

(2)  In  case  the  Government  requires  part  of  the  powder  to  be  air-dried, 
decision  as  to  the  proportions  of  air-dried  and  water-dried  powder  must  be 
arrived  at  before  the  plants  are  laid  out. 

9.  While  this  proposition  contemplates  the  construction  and  operations  of 
plants  with  a  total  capacity  of  approximately  1,000,000  pounds  of  water-dried 
smokeless  cannon  powder  per  day,  it  is  understood  tliat  in  case  the  Government 
desires  plants  constructed  and  operated  with  a  lesser  total  capacity,  the  terms 
and  conditions  of  this  proposal  will  apply  to  any  such  plant  or  plants  of  lesser 
capacity. 

10.  The  Government  shall  have  the  privilege  of  cancelling  the  agency  at  any 
time  during  the  construction  of  these  plants,  in  which  event  the  du  Pont  Com- 
pany shall  receive  as  compensation  in  lieu  of  the  compensation  herein  provided 
one  per  cent  (1%)  of  $90,000,000  for  each  month  or  fraction  thereof  elapsing 
between  the  date  of  the  signing  of  said  agency  contract  and  the  date  of  the 
cancellation  thereof  as  aforesaid,  which  percentage  it  is  hereby  agreed  covers 
full  and  fair  compensation  to  the  du  Pont  Company  for  its  service  in  and 
about  the  construction  of  said  plants,  but  in  no  event  shall  this  compensation 
be  in  excess  of  fifteen  per  cent  (15%)  of  $90,000,000. 

K.  I.  DU  Pont  db  Nemours  and  Company, 
Per  E.  G.  Bucknbb,  Vice  President. 


Exhibit  No.  1127 


EXCERPTS  FROM    MEETING   OF   THE   WAR  INDUSTRIES   BOARD    HELD   THURSDAY,    OCTOBER 
11,    1917,   AT   10  :  00  A.   M.,  IN  ROOM   945,   MUNSEY  BUILDING 

Present :  Mr.  Scott,  chairman,  Mr.  Baruch,  Mr.  Brookings,  Admiral  Fletcher, 
Mr.  Frayne,  Col.  Pierce,  Mr.  Bingham,  secretary. 

Chemicals — smokeless  powder — increase  of  du  Pont  capacity. — Mr.  Scott  re- 
ported that  the  chief  of  ordnance  will  recommend  to  the  Secretary  of  War  that 
83876— 35— PT  13 -16 


3140  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

the  du  Pont  Company  be  permitted  to  expend  $3,600,000  to  create  additional 
facilities  to  produce  3,500,000  more  pounds  per  month  of  smokeless  powder.- 
Likewise  that  lie  had  practically  decided  to  recommend  that  they  be  permitted 
to  expend  additional  $90,000,000  to  dcmble  their  smokeless-powder  capacity,  and 
that  the  chief  of  ordnance  expected  to  recommend  this  without  bringing  the 
matter  before  the  War  Industries  Board. 
The  meeting  adjourned  at  1 :  00  p.  m. 

H.  P.  Bingham,  Secretary. 

Exhibit  No.  1128 

special  meining  of  the  wae  industries  board  held  tuesday,  october  16,  1917, 
at  9  :  45  a.  m.,  in  room  945,  muk'set  building 

Note. — In  Mr.  Baruch's  opinion  this  was  not  a  meeting  of  the  War  Industrie? 
Board  but  only  a  conference  of  the  explosives  committee  of  the  Board. 

Present :  Mr.  Scott,  chairman,  Mr.  Brookings,  Admiral  Fletcher,  Colonel  Pierce, 
Mr.  Bingham,  secretary,  and  Mr.  L.  L.  Summers. 

Chemicals — explosive  situation. — Col.  Pierce  presented  a  summary  prepared 
by  the  statistical  department  under  date  of  October  15th  covering  the  require- 
ments for  explosives  during  the  period  of  from  October  1917  to  October  1918, 
of  the  Army,  Navy,  Engineer  Corps,  industrial  needs  of  the  United  States,  Brit- 
ish (contracts  and  prospectives),  French  (contracts  and  prospectives),  Italian 
(contracts  and  prospectives). 

This  report  was  given  to  Mr.  Summers  to  correct,  if  necessary,  and  he  was 
requested  to  report  on  the  explosive  situation  to  the  War  Industries  Board, 
making  definite  recommendations  as  to  how  the  Government  should  proceed  to 
secure  the  maximum  amount  of  explosives. 

Mr.  Summers  said  that  progress  is  being  made  in  arranging  for  the  securing 
of  toluol  from  sras  used  in  various  cities.  He  bvoug'^t  out  the  pxtveme  serious- 
ness of  the  sulphuric  acid  situation  showing  that  the  requirements  would  be 
very  much  above  the  present  production. 

The  chairman  stated  that  he  had  been  verbally  advised  by  the  Ordnance  De- 
partment that  the  Secretary  of  War  has  given  his  approval  to  the  plan  author- 
izing the  du  Pont  Company  to  practically  double  their  capacity  for  the  manu- 
facture of  smokeless  powder  at  an  expense  of  approximately  $90,000,000. 

Mr.  Summers  expressed  the  view  that  since  the  Government  was  so  vitally 
interested  in  this  matter  that  such  additional  facilities  should  be  the  property 
of  the  Government  and  not  of  a  private  interest.  It  was  the  unanimous  opinion 
of  the  Board  that  immediate  and  drastic  action  should  be  instituted,  as  the 
explosive  situation  was  regarded  as  critical  and  of  supreme  importance. 

The  meeting  adjourned  at  11 :  00  a.  m. 

H.  P.  Bingham,  Secretary. 


Exhibit  No.  1129 

[Copied  from  file  no.  G-728-232  E] 

War  Department, 
Gun  Division,  Office  of  the  Chief  op  Ordnance. 

1S30  F  Street,  Washinfifon. 
In  replying  refer  to  no. — ,  CP  471.5/645.  1st  ind. :  EAG/j ;  legal  office,  purchase 
section,   ffun   division,   O.   O.,   Oct.   21,   1917.     To   general   control,   gun   divi- 
sion, O.  O. 

1.  I  am  in  receipt  of  a  telegram  from  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co. 
(GP  471.5/642)  advi.sing  that  preliminary  order  (GP  471.5/644)  War-Ord- 
G728-323E,  for  the  erection  and  operation  as  the  agent  of  the  Government  of 
smokploss-powder  plants  having  a  capacity  of  1,000.000  pounds  of  powder  per 
day,  meets  the  approval  of  the  directors  of  the  company  in  all  respect  except 
that  paragraph  12  is  objectionable  in  that  the  company  desires  that  the  order 
be  issued  to  a  subsidiary  comnany  to  be  organized  especially  for  the  purpose. 
.Tudw  Laffpy,  counsel  for  the  company,  has  submitted  a  memorandum 
(CP  471.5/645)  to  which  this  is  an  endorsement  wherein  he  reviews  the  reasons 
advanced  by  his  company  in  support  of  their  request  that  they  be  permitted 
tn  form  a  new  company  for  the  performance  of  this  work. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3141 

2.  The  memorandum  is  a  summary  of  the  discussion  of  the  subject  at  con- 
ferences held  on  "Wednesday  October  17th  attended  by  seven  of  tlie  representa- 
tives of  the  company,  General  Crozier,  Colonel  Iloffer,  Colonel  Nichols,  Major 
Burns,  and  the  undersigned. 

3.  The  objections  in  para.c^raplis  2  and  4  of  the  memorandum,  that  the  forma- 
tion of  a  new  comjiany  would  (a)  centralize  litigation  and  (b)  facilitate  ac- 
counting, are  entirely  secondary  in  importance.  If  the  Du  Pont  Co.  acts  as 
agent  for  the  Government  and  is  made  defendant  in  an  action  arising  out  of 
the  agency,  whether  in  a  nearby  or  distant  State,  a  complete  defense  would 
be  made  by  the  disclosure  of  the  relationship  of  the  company  to  the  Govern- 
ment. 

4.  The  argument  advanced  in  paragraph  1  of  the  memorandum  is  based 
upon  a  desire  to  limit  liability  which  "  lies  in  the  possibility  of  its  being  here- 
after held  that  the  Ordnance  Department  exceeded  its  lawful  powers  in  mak- 
ing this  contract,  in  which  event  the  agent  might  be  held  liable  on  its  implied 
warrantry  of  authority  on  all  contracts  signed  by  it  as  agent  of  the  Govern- 
ment. The  Du  Pont  Company  desires  to  assume  no  risk  of  financial  loss  to 
itself." 

Financial  loss  to  the  Du  Pont  parent  organization  if  it  undertakes  the  per- 
formance of  the  contract  would  be  suffered  only  in  the  event  that  the  Supreme 
Court  of  the  United  States  should  hold  the  contract  to  be  invalid  on  the 
ground  that  the  Secretary  of  War  did  not  have  the  power  to  execute  the  same. 

Under  the  statute  the  Secretary  is  not  only  authorized  but  obligated  to 
procure  for  the  Army  the  supplies  for  which  Congress  has  appropriated  funds 
and  in  so  doing  he  may  delegate  the  authority  to  execute  contracts  vested  in 
him  to  the  heads  of  bureaus  of  the  War  Department. 

The  power  of  the  United  States  to  make  contracts  through  its  various 
departments  has  been  discussed  in  a  long  line  of  cases  which  hold  that  the 
Government  has  tlie  same  powers  and  rights  in  the  matter  of  making  contracts 
as  has  an  individual. 

It  is  the  magnitude  of  the  undertaking  which  gives  rise  to  the  apprehension 
of  the  Du  Pont  Company,  ratlier  than  a  doubt  as  to  the  validity  of  the  pro- 
posed contract,  and  consequently,  no  discussion,  however  convincing,  will 
remove  its  reluctance  to  undertake  this  work  in  the  name  of  the  parent 
organization. 

The  counterproposal  contemplates  the  formation  of  a  new  comiiany  having 
as  its  oflicers,  directors,  and  employees  every  member  of  the  preesnt  Du  Pont 
organization  whose  services  will  in  any  way  be  necessary  or  desirable  in  the 
performance  of  the  contract.  The  parent  organization  will  affiliate  itself  with 
the  new  company  and  will  guarantee  to  the  Government  the  fulfillment  of 
every  obligation  proposed  by  the  contract.  In  this  way,  it  is  asserted,  the 
Government  will  have  the  services  of  the  Du  Pont  Company  but  the  risk  of 
loss  will  be  limited  to  the  capital  of  the  new  company. 

It  is  recognized  that  the  guarantee  of  the  Du  Pont  Company  and  its  affilia- 
tion with  the  new  organization  might  be  so  designed  as  to  give  effect  to  the 
alleged  intention  of  establishing  the  same  relationship  with  the  Govemment 
as  though  the  contract  had  been  taken  direct,  and  the  question  therefore 
reselves  itself  into  one  of  policy. 

E.  A.  Hamilton, 
Captain,  Ordnance  Dept.,   U.  S.  R. 


Exhibit  No.  1130 
[Copy.     File  GP  471.5/644.     In  replying  refer  to  War-Ord-G728-323E] 

War  Department, 
Office  of  the  Chief  of  Ordnance, 

Washington,    October  25,   1917. 
Messrs.  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co., 

Wilmington,  Delaware. 
Gentlemen:  1.  I  have  to  advise  you  that  your  proposal  under  date  of 
October  4,  1917  (G#635.V5),  as  modified  by  letter  of  October  Sth  (GB 
471.5/524)  has  been  given  consideration,  and  in  accordance  with  the  under- 
standing reached  at  today's  conference,  attended  by  Colonel  Buckner,  Judge 
Laffey,  Mr.  Beardslee,  Colonel  Hoffer,  Captain  Hamilton,  and  myself,  I  hereby 


3142  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

direct  you  to  proceed  as  soon  as  possible  with  the  construction  for  the  Gov- 
ernment of  complete  plants  for  the  manufacture  of  smokeless  powder  for  cannon 
in  units  of  a  100,000  pounds  rated  daily  capacity,  the  total  capacity  of  which. 
will  be  1,000,000  pounds  of  powder  per  day  of  twenty-four   (24)   hours. 

2.  The  proportion  of  water-dried  and  air-dried  smokeless  powder  to  be 
manufactured  in  the  plants  will  be  determined  before  the  execution  of  the 
formal  contract  covering  this  order.  The  plants  will  be  located  on  sites 
selected  by  you  with  my  approval,  and  will  include  sulphuric  and  nitric  acid 
manufacturing  and  recovering  plants,  cotton  purification,  gun  cotton,  water 
supply,  waste  disposition,  power,  lines  of  communication  and  transmission,  store 
houses,  freight  yards  and  standard  gauge  tracks,  plajits  for  the  manufacture- 
of  ether  and  diphenylamine,  houses  for  employees  to  an  extent  which  shall 
be  proi)ortionate  to  the  housing  facilities  provided  at  existing  plants  of  your 
company,  administrative  buildings,  laboratories,  shops,  box  factories,  etc.,. 
all  of  which,  it  is  estimated  will  cost  about  $90,000,000. 

3.  You  will  act  as  the  agent  for  the  Government  in  selecting  sites  for  the 
plants  and  in  effecting  the  use  and  occupancy  or  acquirement  thereof  by  the 
Govei'nment  and  in  providing  all  necessary  labor  and  materials  for  the  com- 
plete construction  of  the  plants  with  the  greatest  dispatch.  As  the  agent 
of  the  Government,  you  are  authorized  to  do  all  acts  necessary  or  convenient 
in  and  about  the  construction  of  the  plants,  and  as  such  agent  you  will  also 
make  contracts  and  incur  obligations  in  the  name  of  the  Government.  The 
Government  will  indemnify  you  against  any  and  all  loss  by  accident,  fire,  flood, 
or  explosion,  or  otherwise  arising  or  growing  out  of  the  construction  of  the 
plants. 

4.  In  order  to  expedite  the  construction  of  the  plants  you  will  be  given^ 
freedom  in  the  exercise  of  your  judgment  as  to  the  preparation  of  the  plans 
and  the  specifications  of  material  and  equipment  to  be  used  in  construction 
and  in  the  arrangement  of  the  plants.  All  plans,  drawings,  and  specifications, 
all  subcontracts,  and  all  other  writings  in  any  way  relating  to  the  exercise 
of  the  agency  created  will  be  subject  to  the  insptction  of  the  Chief  >)f  the 
Gun  Division  of  this  office. 

5.  The  Government  will  reserve  the  right  to  furnish  lumber,  nails,  eement, 
brick,  and  steel  necessary  in  the  construction  of  the  plants,  ana  to  the  extent 
that  tlie  Government  exercises  this  right,  it  will  agree  to  make  deliveries  of 
materials  of  suitable  quality  at  such  times  and  in  such  quanties  as  the  bill 
of  materials  which  you  will  furnish  provides,  but  the  cost  of  such  materials 
shall  be  included  in  the  cost  of  the  plant  upon  which  payments  provided  for 
in  subdivisions  (a)  and  (6)  of  the  next  following  paragraph  are  computed. 

6.  The  Government  will  pay  directly  or  will  reimburse  you  for  all  cost  of 
the  construction  of  the  plants,  and  in  addition  you  will  be  paid  at  the  time  of 
making  payments  on  account  of  such  construction,  whether  directly  or  to  you 
in  reimbursement — 

(a)  A  sum  equal  to  seven  (7)  percent  thereof  to  cover  preparation  of  plans, 
the  procurement  of  sites,  engineering  supervision  other  than  local  supervision, 
and  services  in  connection  witli  purchasing  and  forwarding  deliveries  of 
material  necessary  for  the  construction  of  the  plants,  and 

(&)  A  sum  equal  to  eight  (S)  percent  to  cover  administration  other  than 
local  administration,  pro  rata  share  of  overhead  expense  other  than  local 
overhead  expense,  and  to  cover  profit. 

The  Government  will  make  prompt  payments  and,  if  necessary  so  to  do,  will 
attach  a  disbursing  officer  at  the  plant  or  at  the  office  of  your  company. 

7.  It  is  understood  that,  based  on  your  best  judgment  developed  by  past 
experience,  the  first  of  the  units  will  be  completed  and  ready  for  operation 
about  eiglit  (8)  months  after  the  date  the  land  on  which  such  unit  is  to  be 
constructed  is  acquired,  and  that  additional  units  will  be  completed  at  inter- 
vals of  thirty  (30)  days  thereafter;  and  that  all  units  will  be  completed 
within  eighteen    (IS)   months  thereafter. 

8.  Upon  the  completion  of  each  of  the  units,  you  will  act  as  the  agent  of 
the  Government  to  operate  each  unit  and  such  agency  will  continue  for  a 
period  of  eighteen  (IS)  months  after  beginning  operation  of  the  first  unit, 
unless  revoked  because  the  need  for  the  outirat  of  such  plants  has  ceased  to 
exist  or  because  of  willful  misconduct  as  the  agent  of  the  Government. 

As  the  agent  of  the  Government,  you  will  be  authorized  to  do  all  acts  neces- 
sary or  convenient  in  and  about  the  operation  of  the  plants  or  any  parts 
thereof,  and  as  such  agent  you  will  also  make  contracts  and  incur  obligations 
in  the  name  of  the  Government.     The  Government  will  indemnify  you  against 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3143 

any  and  all  loss  by  accident,  fire,  flood,  or  explosion,  or  otherwise  arising  or 
growing  out  of  the  operation  of  the  plants. 

9.  The  Government  will  pay  directly  or  will  reimburse  you  for  all  cost  of 
the  operation  of  the  plants  and  in  addition  there  will  be  paid  to  you  the  sum 
■of  five  (5)  cents  per  pound  for  all  smokeless  powder  delivered  and  accepted. 

At  the  end  of  the  first  full  month  of  operation  of  any  unit  or  fraction  of 
a  unit,  the  cost  of  the  water-dried  powder,  exclusive  of  the  cost  of  boxes  and 
amortization  and  depreciation  of  phmt,  but  including  the  cost  of  components 
and  the  conversion  thereof,  repaii-s,  power,  transportation,  general  works 
expense,  works  accidents,  and  plant  superintendence,  and  all  other  proper 
items  of  cost  shall  be  determined,  and  in  the  event  that  such  cost  shall  be 
found  to  have  been  less  than  forty  four  and  one-half  (44yo)  cents  per  pound, 
the  Government  will  pay  to  your  company,  in  addition  to  the  five  (5)  cents 
per  pound  as  above,  fifty  (50)  percent  of  the  difference  between  the  amount  by 
which  the  actual  cost  is  less  than  the  base  cost  of  forty-four  and  one-half 
(44%)  cents  per  pound.  With  reference  to  air-dried  powder,  the  base  cost  on 
which  additions  to  profit  are  computed  will  be  forty-seven   (47)   cents. 

10.  The  Government  will  reserve  to  itself  the  right  to  reduce  the  output  of 
the  plants  herein  provided  to  be  constructed  and  operated,  in  wliich  event  the 
terms  and  conditions  herein  set  forth   will  be  applicable. 

11.  The  Government  will  reserve  tc  itself  the  right  to  revoke  and  terminate 
the  agency  to  construct  the  plants  at  any  time.  In  the  event  that  such  right 
is  exercised  within  six  (6)  months  from  the  date  hereof,  the  Government  will 
pay  to  your  company  in  addition  to  the  cost  of  construction,  paid  or  incurred 
to  the  date  of  such  termination  or  revocation,  a  sum  which,  together  with  all 
moneys  theretofore  paid  under  subdivisions  {a)  and  (b)  of  paragraph  6  of 
this  order,  will  equal  $900,000  for  each  month  and  proportionately  for  any 
fraction  of  a  month,  during  which  the  agency  has  been  in  operation.  In  the 
•event  that  such  right  is  exercised  at  a  date  later  than  six  (6)  months  from 
the  date  of  this  order,  the  Government  will  be  under  no  obligation  to  make 
payments  other  than  those  in  this  letter  elsewhere  provided. 

12.  It  is  understood  that  this  order  after  acceptance  by  you  may  be  assigned 
to  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  a  Delaware  corporation  of  nominal 
•capitalization,  to  be  organized  solely  for  rhe  purpose  of  the  construction  and 
operation  of  powder  plants  under  this  order. 

The  officers  and  directors  of  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  will  be  as 
follows :  President  Pierre  S.  du  Pont ;  vice  president,  E.  G.  Buckner ;  vice 
president,  Irenee  du  Pont ;  vice  president,  H.  F.  Brown  ;  treasurer,  J.  J.  Raskob  ; 
and  secretary,  Alexis  I.  du  Pont.  Directors :  H.  F.  Brown,  E.  G.  Buclcner, 
R.  R.  M.  Carpenter.  F.  L.  Connable.  William  Coyne,  Alexis  I.  du  Pont,  Irenee 
du  Pont,  Lammot  du  Pont,  Pierre  S.  du  Pont,  H.  G.  Haskell,  J.  P.  Laffey, 
H.  M.  Pierce,  J.  J.  Raskob,  and  F.  G.  Tall  man. 

13.  It  is  also  understood  that  concurrently  with  the  execution  of  the  formal 
contract  with  the  new  company  covering  this  order,  a  tripartite  agreement  will 
be  entered  into  by  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.,  the  Du  Pont  Engineering 
Company,  and  the  Government,  wherein  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  will 
guarantee  to  furnish  to  the  Government  and  to  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Com- 
pany as  and  when  and  to  the  extent  required  in  tlie  construction  and  operation 
of  the  said  powder  plants : 

(a)  The  services  of  its  engineering,  purchasing,  operating,  and  other  special 
and  technical  departments. 

(&)  The  right  to  use  all  plans,  drawings,  and  specifications,  patents,  proc- 
esses, and  trade  secrets  possessed  by  it. 

(c)    Such  working  capital  as  may  be  needed. 

This  tripartite  agreement  will  continue  during  the  life  of  the  contract  be- 
tween  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  and   the  Government  and   will  be 
subject  to  modification  only  with  the  consent  of  the  Government. 
Respectfully, 

(Sgd.)     William  Croziek, 
Major  General,  Chief  of  Onbuince. 

The  terms  and  conditions  of  the  foregoing  order  accepted  and  agreed  to: 

B.  I.  DU  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co., 
(Sgd.)     Pierre  S.  du  Pont,  President. 
Attest : 

(Sgd.)     L.  R.  Beardslee,  Asst.  Secreta^-ij. 


3144  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Exhibit  1131 

exceepts  from  meeting  of  the  war  industeies  board  hb3ld  wednesday,  ootobeb 
31.  1917,  at  10  a.  m.  in  boom  703.  c.  n.  d.  building 

Present :  Judge  Lovett,  acting  chairman ;  Mr,  Barucli,  Mr.  Brookings,  Admiral 
Fletcher,  Mr.  Frayiie,  Col.  Pierce,  Mr.  Bingham,  sect'y. 

Chemicals — Increase  of  plants  of  the  Dupont  Powder  as  "brought  to  the  atten- 
tion of  the  Board  by  Major  Oenl.  William  Crozier. — A  communication  from  the 
Chief  of  Ordnance  dated  October  29th,  >Co.  GE  471.5/350  informing  the  Board 
of  arrangement  made  between  the  Ordnance  Department  and  the  E.  I.  Dupont 
de  Nemours  &  Company  for  the  construction  and  operation  of  powder  plants 
having  a  rated  capacity  of  one  million  pounds  of  finished  smoKeless  powder  per 
day  and  involving  an  expenditure  of  approximately  $90,000,000,  was  read  for  the 
information  of  the  Board. 

It  was  ordered  that  the  following  letter  be  sent  in  acknowledgment  to  the 
Chief  of  Ordnance : 

October  31,  1917. 
The  Chief  of  Ordnance, 

War  Department,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Sir  :  1.  Replying  to  your  communication  of  October  29th,  No.  GE  417.5/350,  we 
beg  to  say  that  the  only  previous  definite  information  the  War  Industries  Board 
had  regarding  the  contract  referred  to  therein  with  the  E.  I.  Dupont  de  Ne- 
mours &  Company  was  a  telephone  mesisage  to  the  chairman  of  the  Board  to 
the  effect  that  you  proposed  to  make  a  contract  with  the  Dupont  Company 
involving  the  expenditure  of  about  $90,000,000  without  referring  it  any  way  to 
the  Board. 

2.  We  now  understand  that  you  simply  advise  us  of  your  action  as  a  matter 
of  information. 

Respectfully, 

[Signed]     H.  P.  Bingham. 
Secretary  War  Industries  Board. 

Mr.  Brookings  stated  that  he  and  Mr.  Baruch  had  been  called  upon  this  morn- 
ing by  the  Secretary  of  War  who  had  requested  that  the  Board  investigate  the 
contract  advising  him  as  to  the  opinion  of  the  Board  of  the  terms  thereof 
Mr.  Baruch  and  Mr.  Biookings  were  thereupon  requested  to  consider  the  con- 
tract in  its  various  phases  and  advise  the  Board. 

The  meeting  adjourned  at  1:00  p.  m.  to  reconvene  at  2:30  for  discussion  of 
the  regulation  of  the  price  of  tin  plate  and  of  certain  items  of  steel. 

H.  P.  Bingham,  Secretary. 

Exhibit  No.  1132 

[File  90] 

November  1,  1917. 
Mr.  E.  G.  BucKNER,  Vice  President, 

Wilmington,  Delaware. 

Dear  Sib:  In  reply  to  your  inquiry  for  more  detailed  information  as  to  tlie 
disadvantages  to  the  du  Pont  Company  in  undertaking  the  proposed  contract 
for  constructing  powder  factories  for  the  United  States  Government,  and  the 
advantages  to  the  Government  in  our  proposal,  I  submit  the  following : 

In  order  to  provide  special  machinery,  such  us  powder  presses,  dehydrating 
presses,  etc.,  we  have  been  obliged  to  purchase  a  machine  shop  at  cost  of 
$7C0,0C0.  This  purchase  is,  of  course,  at  an  inflated  value,  due  to  war  condi- 
tions. We  will  probably  not  realize  on  the  property  at  an  advantageous  price 
when  a  sale  is  made,  and  the  shop  is  not  necessary  for  the  purposes  of  our 
company. 

We  will  mnke  all  such  machinery  in  our  machine  shops  and  charge  to  con- 
tract at  cost.  If  these  items  were  purcliased  in  the  open  market  a  very  large 
profit  would  be  charged  by  the  manufacturer,  and  there  might  be  great  delay 
in  obtaining  the  machinery. 

The  engineering  and  mechanical  work  necessary  for  making  drawings  of 
apparatus  is  completed.  These  drawings  could  not  be  prepared  anew  without 
great  expense  and  greater  loss  of  time,  due  to  difficulty  of  obtaining  drauglits- 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3145 

men  for  work  on  the  scale  required,  I  mention  that  the  blueprints  used  for 
our  factories  would  cover  some  sixty  acres  of  ground  if  spread  out,  giving 
some  idea  of  the  enormous  work  involved  in  their  preparation,  and  in  the  groat 
saving  to  the  Government  in  both  time  and  money  in  having  this  material  at 
hand. 

When  we  built  our  own  smokeless-powder  factories  such  work  was  more 
ready  of  accomplishment,  and  I  do  not  think  it  could  have  been  done  without 
the  stimulus  of  our  bonus  plan.  We  cannot  divert  our  principal  men  to  this 
new  work  without  similar  payments  to  them,  not  only  because  we  would  be 
unwilling  to  undertake  the  work  without  making  such  provision  for  payment 
of  those  employed  but  because  we  could  not  hold  the  men  in  our  service  unles.s 
such  outlay  be  made,  either  in  salary,  or,  as  we  prefer  to  do,  in  bonus.  We 
are  setting  aside  $1,500,000  for  this  purpose,  this  being  less  than  the  sum 
expended  in  the  erection  of  our  own  plants. 

The  loss  of  the  use  of  our  engineering  department  will  be  a  great  burden  to 
the  welfare  of  our  company ;  construction  work  amounting  to  millions  of  dollars 
would  have  been  undertnken  by  us  in  the  year  which  must  be  devoted  to  the 
construction  of  the  Government  plants.  This  work  would  make  a  handsome 
return  to  our  stockholders,  even  in  normal  times ;  and  if  the  war  should  (Con- 
tinue, the  indirect  financial  loss  to  our  stockholders  would  be  much  greater; 
and  in  addition,  our  failure  to  fini.sh  construction  may  seriously  handicap  »'Ur 
work  for  many  years.  As  an  instnnce,  I  might  cite  one  factory  is  now  under 
construction  and  under  whose  operation  we  have  firm  contracts  for  delivery  of 
material.  Delay  in  constructing  this  plant  and  furnishing  material,  under  our 
contracts  will  cost  the  company  $500,000  per  month.  Undoubtedly,  the  prD- 
posed  Government  work  will  interfere  seriously  with  the  completion  of  this 
particular  plant. 

In  times  such  as  these,  possible  savings  through  improvements  are  enormous!. 
Many  of  these  savings  will  be  lost,  owing  to  diversion  to  Government  construc- 
tion of  men  whose  duty  it  is  to  search  them  out.  The  estimated  saving  fronri 
improvements  devised  by  the  engineering  department  in  the  past  six  months 
of  this  year  aggregates  $3,869,000  annually.  After  the  contemplated  construc- 
tion for  the  Government  is  finished  it  will  be  too  late  to  make  savings  from 
the  operation  of  our  military  plants. 

There  is  another  point  on  which  we  have  touched  lightly,  but  whose  import- 
ance I  wish  to  impress  upon  you,  namely,  that  we  have  among  our  stockholders 
a  very  aggressive  and  wealthy  minority  who  are  spending  much  time  in  trying  to 
harass  the  present  administration  of  the  company.  We  cannot  undertake  any 
work  of  the  magnitude  contemplated  in  these  Government  factories  without 
including  in  our  charges  the  profit  that  one  might  reasonably  expect  from  the 
use  of  our  stockholders'  money.  If  we  should  fail  to  do  this,  the  unfriendly 
minority  would  have  a  case  of  some  merit  to  promote  against  those  in  charge 
of  the  company's  affairs.  Apart  from  the  possibility  of  these  attacks,  this 
featui'e  of  the  situation  only  serves  to  accentuate  the  duties  of  our  officers  and 
directors  to  endeavor  to  win  reasonable  profits  for  the  stockholders.  That  is 
not  only  part  of  our  duty,  but  we  cannot  assent  to  allowing  our  own  patriotism 
to  interfere  with  our  duties  as  trustees.  Our  commanding  position  in  the 
explosive  industry  has  been  won  only  by  incessant  work  and  expenditures 
of  money  by  the  company.  The  situation  is  an  asset  of  the  stockholders  which 
cannot  be  dissipated  lightly.  It  is  undoubtedly  true  that  the  contemplated 
work  could  not  be  executed  by  other  contractors  at  cost  to  the  Government 
better  than  that  which  we  propose  to  charge,  including  our  commission.  If 
we  are  wrong  in  this  supposition  we  will  gladly  relinquish  the  work  to  other 
contractors,  as  we  do  not  feel  that  our  low  compensation  will  bring  to  the 
company  as  great  financial  reward  as  we  would  reap  were  we  to  continue 
our  own  business  unhampered  by  this  contract  for  governmental  work. 
Yours  very  truly, 


President. 


3146 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 
Exhibit  No,  1133 


'I 

§ 

_ 

CM" 

> 

c 

— 

— 1 

- 

' 

^33A01<iW3 

Aayivs 

-- 

— 

— 

— 

I 

- 

1 

— 

— 

1 

i 

! 

■ 

1 

1 
1 

is    1 

— 

.1- 
i 

— 1 — 
1 

-r- 

- 

I 

1 

V>' 

O 

1  • 

• 

\ 

w_ 

's 

21 

! 

— 

— 

1 

-  — 

- 

- 

.   1 

! 

- 

i 

1 

> 

■    1 

1 

.  ! 

g 

1 

1 

1 

f-- 

pi^ 

-^ 

,^^ 

/ 

■ 

t 

» .  I 

— 

«-4^ 

i 

■Jr^- 

--4—: 

-S. 

««*' 

"~ 

r* 

iLl 

* 

L.. 

:    1 

Ll^ 

i 

•~" 

^•XZi 

! 

---J. 

•v. 

^ 

oo 

'   ! 

! 

2: 

-d:  i 



j 
1 

-r - 

L 

1 

e 
-f 

— i — 
1    - 

-. 



-J 

-^ 

- 

<^ 

1 

1 

^\  % 

rT 

! 

-_!._ 

■■■--■ 

--i- 
1 

■ 

1 

1 

t 

^\N 

if  1  1 

1 

1 
1 

[ 

1  < 

\^, 

-oX 

-i- 

• 

..._L. 

1 

i- 

1 

i 

1 

!  I\ 

v 

hv 

1 

1 

.  I.  . 

i 

1 

1 

\ 

-  \ 

, 

m 

-U: 

7    i  ■ 

-f- 

-f: 

-■ 

i 

1 

i 

\ 

\ 

^  i 

P 

! 

1 

- 

fV     ' 



1 

1 

— r-- 
1 

- 

\ 

•*• 

i 

0- 

i    ' 

1 

i 

5. 

L 

1 

1  - 

i 

i 

1 

1 
1 

1 

1 

yj 

Hi 

2 

-z 

I 

i 

1 
i 

! 

1 

.f 

^ 

'" 

ff> 

•  .  1 

— i — 

-1-1 

1 

1 

.—)-'' 

— 

1 

O 

! 

i 

K 

- 

-2 

1 
"   1 

- 

1 

\ 

U-Il 

1, 

'i 

\ 

> 
> 

...J.- 

i  V 

0 

1 

^. 

1 

\ 

UN 

s 

I 

1 
i 

i^ 

■»» 

»^ 

\ 

0> 

1- 

'T 

— 

— 

\0'   j 

I.I  i 

5 

^^ 

■>. 

V 

i 

^N 

> 

> 

■   - 

1 

_i- 

i 

^v 

vJ 

i 

■Njd 

iff 

i 

— 

"" 

I 

§ 

> 

c 
8 

> 
> 

c 

G 

C 

> 

c 

> 

onv 


NVf 


onv 


■  Nvr 


onv 


Nvr 


DflV 


Nvr 


onv 


Nvr 


onv 


S13A01dW9  "llOa  AVd 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3147 

Exhibit  No.  11o4 

Extract  From  Report  Addkessed  to  thk  Executive  Committee  of  E.  I.  i>u  Pont 
DB  Nemoltrs  &  Company  Fkom  President  of  du  Pont  Engineering  Compan-x, 
Dated  June  14,  1923  (#9579) 

engineering  organization analysis  showing  nett  results  op  outside  con- 
tracting work  and  effect  upon  du  pont  organization  as  a  whole 

The  outside  contracts  (lump  sum)  that  we  were  permitted  to  undortalvc  during 
the  latter  part  of  the  year  1921  have  not  worked  out  as  we  had  originally 
planned,  hn-gely  due  to  conditions  heyond  our  control.  I  am  inclosing  exhibit 
"A",  activities  of  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  for  period  from  January  1919 
to  June  1923  (not  including  General  Motors  work).  I  am  also  attaching  ex- 
hibit "  B  ",  photostat  of  du  Pont  Company  construction  curve,  showing  the  trend 
of  construction  costs  from  1914  to  date. 

The  very  rapid  recovery  in  business  beginning  at  about  the  time  we  under- 
took our  outside  contracts  was  a  great  surprise,  especially  to  contractors  who  had 
conchKled  the  time  had  arrived  to  take  work  on  a  lump-sum  basis.  These 
conditions  will  be  noted  by  examining  the  curve  on  exhibit  "  B."  We  are 
sure,  however,  that  the  curve  for  construction  work  in  general  is  approximate  to 
our  curve.  Due  to  the  above  conditions,  it  is  necessary  that  we  make  a  complete 
analysis  of  all  work  done  following  the  war  other  than  du  Pont  work,  in  order 
to  present  a  true  picture  of  what  actually  happened  during  the  period  of  demo- 
bilization of  our  engineering  organization  which  had  been  expanded  to  meet  the 
war  conditions,  and  which  during  August  1918  was  operating  on  a  basis  of 
$800,000  worth  of  engineering,,  design,  and  construction  work  per  day. 

Following  the  signing  of  the  armistice  we  were  left  with  this  organization  and 
it  was  necessary  to  decide  very  quickly  what  was  to  be  done  with  it.  Since  it 
had  been  the  du  Pont  Company's  policy  for  approximately  twenty  years  to 
maintain  an  organization  to  do  its  own  design  and  construction  work  and  since 
the  executive  committee  at  that  time  decided  to  continue  this  policy,  we  were 
confronted  with  the  problem  of  demobilizing  the  engineering  organization  to  a 
point  where  it  could  best  meet  the  normal  requirements  of  the  du  Pont  interests. 
Our  forces  at  that  time  consisted  of  2,479  salary  employees  and  approximately 
45,000  field  forces.  We  very  quickly  demobilized  75  percent  of  these  forces, 
retaining  the  best  men.  the  remaining  portion  to  be  demobilized  more  gradually 
and  as  conditions  warranted.  It  was  suggested  that  we  undertake  to  do  such 
work  for  the  General  Motors  Corporation  as  they  would  give  us  under  a  contract 
where  we  would  charge  them  only  10  percent  profit  on  the  cost  of  the  engineering, 
and  which  actually  figured  but  only  a  fraction  of  a  percent  on  the  actual  cost 
of  construction.  The  total  of  this  General  Motors  work  following  the  war  has 
amounted  to  approximately  $40,456,667.  We  were  therefore  able  to  keep  the 
remaining  portion  of  our  organization  very  busy  for  approximately  two  years 
following  the  war  or  until  the  beginning  of  the  terrific  business  slump.  As  a 
matter  of  fact  we  found  it  ner'ossary  to  increase  our  salary  forces  from  approxi- 
mately QCO  to  972  in  order  to  handle  the  great  volume  of  General  Motors  work 
during  the  eighteen  months  immediately  following  the  war.  When  the  business 
depression  came  the  General  Motors  Corporation  curtailed  its  entire  construction 
program  and  the  du  Pont  Company  likewise  so  reduced  its  construction  program 
that  it  was  necessary  to  immediately  begin  a  secondary  demobilization  of  our 
forces  from  a  peak  of  972  during  the  first  part  of  1920  to  an  average  of  150 
salary  employees.  This  secondary  demobilization  was  under  way  for  a  period 
of  approximately  eighteen  months. 


Exhibit  No.  1135 
[Copied  from  file  no.  G-728-323-E] 


NOVEMBEK  2,   1917. 


General  Wm.  Ckozier, 

Chief  of  Ordnance,  U.  S.  A.,  Washington,  D.  C. 
Dear  Sir:  In  answer  to  your  request  that  I  put  in  writing  an  estimate  of 
the  expenses  which  are  chargeable  against  the  15%  commission  on  the  pro- 
posed contract  for  construction  of  plants  for  the  United   States  Government. 


3148 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


I  wish  first  to  call  attention  to  some  general  conditions  indicating  the  magni- 
tude of  the  work  and  the  burden  that  is  placed  upon  our  company  in  this 
undertaking  to  the  injury  of  existing  business. 

The  importance  of  the  proposed  undertaking  must  not  be  minimized.  For 
instance,  the  rate  of  construction  demands  a  monthly  outlay  in  excess  of  the 
average  monthly  outlay  in  the  construction  of  the  Panama  Canal.  The  contract 
represents  transactions  equal  to  nearly  four  times  the  annual  business  of  oui" 
company  prior  to  the  war.  This  burden  is  to  be  superimposed  on  immense 
developments  already  made  and  now  being  operated  at  maximum  pi-essure. 
The  proposed  factories  will  require  a  water  supply  equal  to  that  of  the  citj 
of  Boston,  and  this  supply  must  not  only  be  filtered  before  using,  but  must  be 
neutralized  after  using  before  returning  to  the  streams  from  which  it  is  to  be 
withdrawn.  Probably  no  such  plant  exists  anywhere  in  the  world  excepting  at 
our  factory  at  Hopewell,  Va.  At  the  peak  of  construction  work  these  factories 
must  be  equipped  to  handle  600  cars  per  day  for  a  period  of  a  month,  and 
probably  an  average  of  250  cars  per  day  throughout  the  14  months  of 
construction. 

You  appreciate  that  the  task  imposed  upon  our  company  is  enormous  anci 
fully  justifies  the  alternative  offer  made  last  night  when  Mr.  Buckner  offered 
to  furnish  the  Government  our  existing  plans  from  which  to  build  these  plants, 
without  charge,  if.  in  return,  you  can  arrange  to  have  the  work  done  by  other 
engineers  and  builders,  thus  relieving  us  entirely  of  the  burden.  I  believe, 
however,  that  this  counter  offer  should  not  be  accepted.  These  factories  can  be 
constructed  more  cheaply  and  eflSciently  and  with  greater  certainty  of  immediate 
maximum  output  if  the  work  is  conducted  by  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Com 
pany  than  if  handed  over  to  contractors  who  cannot  place  themselves  In 
immediate  contact  with  similar  plants  in  actual  operations. 

The  expected  output  is  very  large.  Small  savings  in  methods  of  operation 
applied  in  the.se  new  factories  will  result  in  great  advantage  to  the  Government, 
Tlierefore  it  seems  almost  necessary  that  construction  and  operation  should  be 
conducted  in  closest  contact  with  the  improvements  continually  being  made  in 
our  own  factories,  all  of  which  will  be  incorporated  in  the  new  plants. 

As  an  illustration  of  this  point,  I  call  attention  to  the  saving  in  the  use  of 
alcohol  developed  in  two  years'  operation  of  our  great  Carney's  Point  plant, 
This  improvement  alone  will  probably  reduce  the  cost  about  $10,000,000  pet 
annum  in  the  operation  of  the  new  factories.  I  might  add  to  this  that  general 
improvement  in  methods  of  handling  materials  has  re.sulted  in  an  almost 
complete  offset  of  the  increased  cost  of  about  60%  in  the  price  of  raw  materials 
used.  These  improvements  have  enabled  us  to  sell  powder  to  the  United 
States  Government  and  to  its  Allies  during  war  times  at  a  price  less  than  that 
charged  in  times  of  peace. 

Many  of  the  improvements  apply  only  to  factories  doing  business  on  the 
enormous  scale  now  in  contemplation,  therefore  could  not  be  developed  from 
the  business  of  our  company  as  it  was  conducted  prior  to  the  war,  or  from  the 
existing  factories  of  the  Government  or  of  other  private  manufacturers. 

The  development  of  these  general  conditions  has  convinced  us  of  the  pro- 
priety of  the  seemingly  high  charge  of  15%  commission  which  may  amount  in 
maximum  to  $13,500,000.  This  commission  covers  not  only  profit  but  many 
indirect  expenses  which  are  so  involved  in  the  daily  conduct  of  our  business  a& 
to  prevent  segregation  except  by  an  estimated  division  of  thousands  of  expense 
items  incurred  throughout  the  period  of  construction.  The  difficulty  of  making 
this  segregation  has  led  us  to  agree  to  assume  all  of  this  indirect  cost,  an 
estimate  of  which  is  given  in  the  attached  list. 

I  am  also  including  several  more  direct  expenses,  such  as  extra  compensation 
to  employees  for  rapid  and  satisfactory  conduct  of  the  work.  This  compensa- 
tion cannot  be  determined  until  the  contract  is  well  nigh  completed.  An  extra 
compensation  plan  has  been  carried  out  with  good  effect  liy  our  company  for 
many  years.  We  are  satisfied  that  in  the  present  emergency  it  is  not  only 
inadvisable  but  really  dangerous  to  attempt  to  withdraw  it.  The  actual  cost 
of  this  item  in  Iniilding  similar  plants  for  our  own  company  amounted  to 
$1,800,000;  however,  this  is  a  small  percentage  of  the  total  salary  and  pay  roll 
involved  in  the  work. 

I  am  also  outlining  in  the  statement  attached  hereto  some  losses  which  will 
be  incurred  by  our  company  in  the  undertaking  of  this  new  work.  For  instance, 
we  have  already  undertaken  large  construction  in  connection  with  the  dye 
industry  and   other  chemical  manufacture,  and   have  engaged  to  deliver  the 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3149 

product  of  these  factories  in  large  amounts.  The  delay  in  finishing  construc- 
tion work,  due  to  our  proposed  new  undertaking,  will  result  in  serious  financial 
loss,  that  in  the  dye  industry  is  most  certain,  and  is  estimated  below. 

Embarkation  in  these  new  lines  of  manufacture,  part  of  which  are  already 
in  operation,  has  placed  us  in  position  of  making  very  large  savings  through 
close  attention  to  details  of  manufacture  and  application  of  economies.  This 
work  is  that  of  our  engineering  department  and  must  be  discontinued  on  accoimt 
of  the  proposed  contract  with  the  United  States  Government.  I  have  had  pre- 
pared an  estimate  of  the  annual  savings  due  to  the  improvements  installed  in 
the  first  six  months  of  this  year,  as  a  result  of  our  endeavors  toward  economical 
operations.  There  is  every  reason  to  believe  that  similar  reduction  in  cost  can 
be  obtained  in  the  future,  as  the  past  six  months  have  not  been  extraordinary 
in  this  line.  I  might  add  that  over  90%  of  the  $3,800,000  annual  saving  result- 
ing from  these  economies  relate  to  the  manufacture  of  military  powders,  and 
will  be  incorporated  in  the  construction  of  your  factories,  so  that  your  cost  of 
manufacture  will  be  reduced  by  similar  amount. 

In  final  explanation  of  the  tabulation  attached  I  might  call  attention  to  the 
fact  that  the  figures  ai-e  estimates  based  nn  many  factors.  It  is  unlikely  that 
the  minimum  figures  can  be  attained  for  every  item,  or  that  the  maximum  will 
be  imposed  throughout.  However,  in  a  situation  so  uncertain  as  is  that  of 
today,  business  prudence  and  our  duty  to  our  stockholders  make  it  necessary  to 
provide  against  loss,  even  though  prospective  profit  is  unlikely  to  be  adequate. 

If  I  have  made  omissions  in  the  above  or  failed  in  clear  explanation,  please 
call  upon  me  for  anything  additional  that  you  may  desire. 
Yours  very  truly, 

PIB3JJIB  I.  DU  Pont,  President. 

Estimate  of  items  chargea'ble  to  Commission  to  he  received  for  construction  of 
factories  to  produce  1,000,000  smokeless  powder  per  day 

A.  Direct  cost  over  and  above  those  paid  by  the  Government  in  accordance  with 

our  offer : 

1.  Preparation  of  plans,  including  selection  of  sites,  optioning  of 
land,  survey  of  land,  making  of  contour  maps,  and  use  of  all  our 
standard  drawings.  Estimated  cost  to  us  between  1  and  2  percent  of 
estimated  cost  of  plant  ($90,000,000)  say  a  mean  of IV2% 

2.  Supervision  of  construction,  being  work  usually  done  by  the 
general  contractor,  of  inspecting  engineer,  including  supervision  of 
fabrication  of  machinery  and  apparatus,  as  well  as  supervision  (  f 
actual  building.  Estimated  cost  between  1  and  2  percent,  s.ay  a 
mean  of 2% 

3.  Cost  of  extra  compensation  to  be  offered  to  men  engaged  on  the 
work  as  an  inducement  to  extraordinary  effort  to  exiiedite  early  com- 
pletion and  economy  of  construction  (our  expenditure  on  this  account 
amounted    to    $1,800,000)    estimated    $1.500,000 1.67% 

4.  Purchasing  exp.  including  cost  of  urging  deliveries  and  Wash- 
ington oflSce  for  keeping  in  touch  with  Priority  Board  and  Civil 
Service   Commission.     Estimated   cost   between    %    and   li/o    percent 

say  a  mean  of 1.  0% 

5.  Administrative  expense.  It  seems  reasonable  to  assume  that  at 
least  one-half  of  our  present  administrative  effort  will  be  expended  on 
this  great  work.  Based  on  the  present  cost,  this  would  amount  to 
about  $900,000  or 1% 

6.  Likely  depreciation  or  amortization  of  machine  shop  which 
must  be  provided.  We  have  engaged  to  purchase  a  macliine  shop  not 
provements  will  be  necessary.  There  will  be  a  heavy  loss  in  dispos- 
ing of  this  shop  after  the  work  is  done.  This  loss  estimated  at 
$225,000 : .25% 

B.  Indirect  costs : 

7.  Interference  with  completion  of  operations  of  Dye  Industry,  in 
which  we  have  already  invested  several  million  dollars.  A  loss  of 
profits  of  $500,000  to  $1,500,000,  estimated  $900,000 1.0% 

8.  Loss  of  economies  in  current  operations  due  to  diversion  of  our 
Engineering  Department  to  new  construction  work,  $2,000,000  to 
$4,000,000,   estimated   $2,700,000 3.  0% 


3150 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 
Summary 


Min. 

Max. 

Mean 

Min. 

Max. 

Mean 

1 

Percent 
1 
1 

1.67 
.5 
1.0 

Percent 
2 
3 

1.67 
1.50 
1.0 

Percent 
1.5 
2.0 
1.67 
1.00 
1.0 

6 

Percent 

0.25 

.65 

2.23 

Percent 
0.25 
1.11 

4.44 

Percent 
0.25 

2 

7 

.55 

3      

8 

2.22 

Total 

Estimated  profit 

5 

8.19 
6.81 

14.97 
.03 

11.42 

3.58 

Exhibit  No.  1136 

Extract  fkom  Minutes  of  Regulae  Executive  Committee  Meeting  #  170,  E.  I. 
Du  Pont  ue  Nemouks  i&  Company,  Held  Octobeir  :i6,  1917 

QUESTION  OF  BUILDING  AND  OPERATING  FOR  THE  U.   S.  GOVERNMENT  PLANTS   CAPABLE 
OP  PRODUCING   1,000,000   LB.S.   OP  SMOKEIJSSS  POWOER  PER  DAY 

The  chairman  orally  reported  that  it  is  exi:)octed  word  will  be  received  from 
the  Governmeni  in  the  very  near  future  requesting  us  to  proceed  with  this  work. 

Report  was  received  from  the  chairm;;n  dated  October  25,  1917  (#9509),  in 
regard  to  establisShiiig  a  bonus  fund  to  be  available  for  employes  who  success- 
fully carry  out  the  construction  of  the  plants  for  the  manufacture  of  1,000,000 
lbs.  of  smokeless  powder  i>er  day  for  the  United  States  Government. 

Af>er  full  discussion,  it  was  moved  and  unanimously  carried  that  this  report 
be  received  and  tiled,  and  the  chairman  advised  that  it  is  agreeable  to  this  com- 
mittee to  enter  into  a  contract  with  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  under 
which  we  will  receive  from  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  $1,500,000  of  the 
total  commissions  which  ihey  receive  on  account  of  work  which  they  are  pro- 
posing to  undertake,  as  an  amount  of  money  to  be  available  for  payment  by  the 
Du  Pont  Company  to  the  employees  of  the  Du  Pont  Company  and  Du  Pont  Engi- 
neering Company,  either  in  cash  or  in  stock  of  the  Du  Pont  Company,  as  in  the 
discretion  of  the  executive  committee  of  the  Du  Pont  Company  may  seem  best, 
as  bonuses  to  the  men  who  contribute  most  in  the  successful  prosecution  of  this 
work,  it  being  understood  that  this  amount  is  to  be  available  for  distribution  to 
the  employees  entirely  apart  from  the  regular  Du  Pont  Company  bonus  plan 
which  is  to  be  in  no  way  effected  by  this  arrangement;  it  is  further  under- 
stood that  if  for  any  reason  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  do  not  complete 
the  construction  work  as  contemplated,  the  amount  of  the  $1,500,000  payment 
herein  referred  to  shall  be  reduced  to  an  amount  equal  to  one-ninth  of  the 
gross  commissions  received  by  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  from  the 
United  States  Government. 


Exhibit  No.  1137 

E.  I.  DU  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company 

Executive  Committee 

Meeting  #  172  (regular  meeting)  held  at  the  ofiiee  of  the  company,  Wil- 
mington, D;  laware,  11 :  00  a.m.,  November  9,  1917. 

Present:  Irenee  du  Pont,  in  the  chair;  R.  R.  M.  Carpenter;  H.  F.  Brown; 
H.  G.  Haskell ;  F.  G.  Tallman  ;  Lammot  du  Pont ;  Wm.  Coyne ;  J.  J.  Raskob. 

Absent:  F.  L.  C(  niiable. 

unfinish?:d  business 

Bonus  fund  for  cmploi/ees  %c1w  successfully  carry  out  cMistruction  of  plants 
fm-  manufacture  of  1.000.000  pounds  of  .smokeless  powder  per  day  for  U.  S. 
Oovcrnment. — Report  from  the  chairman  dated  October  29,  1917    (#9538)    on 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3151 


the  above-mentioned  subject,  action  on  ^Yllich  was  deferred  at  the  last  regular 
meetinix,  was  again  presented  for  consideration.  Tlie  cluiirman  advised  that 
Col.  Hoffer,  of  tlie  U.  S.  Or(hiance  Di'irartment,  thon.uht  it  inadvisable  to  make 
any  reference  in  the  contract  with  the  Government  to  the  malter  of  the  bonus 
fund  to  be  contributed  by  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  in  view  of  its 
being  a  matter  between  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  and  tl.e  Du  Pont 
C(  nipauy,  and  that  consequently  it  was  not  incorporated  in  the  order  given  us 
for  the  plants  by  General  Crozier. 

After  discussion,  it  was  moved  and  unanimou-=;ly  carried  that  this  report  be 
accepted  nud  ordered  filed. 


(The  following  information  was  requested  by  the  committee  of  the 
du  Pont  Co.    See  text,  p.  2912.) 

E.  I.  DU  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co., 

Wilmington,  Del.,  April  19,  1935. 
United  States  Senate  Speciai,  Committee 
Investigating  the  Munitions  Industky, 

WasJiington,  D.  C. 
Gentlemen:  There  is  attnched  hereto  statement  showing  advances  made  by 
the  United  States  Government,  in  connection  with  military  contracts,  to  E.  I. 
du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.,  Du  Pont  Engineering  Co.,  and  Du  Pont  American 
Industries,  Inc. 

Yours  very  truly, 

H.  W.  Lynch,  Assistant  Comptroller. 

Statement  of  advances  from  United  States  Government  in  connection  loith 

military  eontracts  '■ 


January  1918 

March  1918 

April  1918 

May  1918. 

June  1918- 

August  1918 

September  1918. 
October  1918. . . 
November  1918. 
December  1918.. 

January  1919 

February  1919... 


Advanced 


Total  advanced 58,959,042.81       45,334,629.87 


E.  I.  du  Pont 

de  Nemours 

&  Co. 


$32, 062,  519.  30 
1,114,285.00 
1, 290, 000. 00 


1, 290, 000. 00 
2,  527, 500.  00 
8, 413,  600.  00 
4, 541. 138.  51 
720, 000. 00 


7, 000, 000.  00 


Du  Pont  En- 
gineering Co. 


20, 466. 829. 87 
713, 800.  00 


1,000,000.00 
12,  636, 000.  00 
4, 200, 000.  00 


6,318,000.00 


Du  Pont 
American  In- 
dustries, Inc. 


5, 400, 000 


5, 400, 000 


(The  following  information  was  requested  of  the  du  Pont  Co. 
by  the  committee.    See  text,  p.  2913.) 

E.  I.  DU  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co., 

Wilmington,  Del.,  April  17,  1935. 
United  States  Senate, 

Special  Committee  Investigating 

the  Munitions  Industry, 

Washington,  D.  C. 
Gentlemen:   In   accordance  with   agreement  'between   the  United   States  of 
America  and  du  Pont  American  Industries,  Inc.,  dated  August  28,  1018,  and 
supplemental  agreements  dated  September  10,  1918,  November  20,  1918,  July 

1  Mr.  Lynch's  total  of  $58,959,042.81  for  advancps  to  the  parent  rompany  exceeds  bv 
about  .$4,000,000  the  similar  total  shown  in  tabulation  at  the  end  of  "Exhibit  No.  1138" 
(Hearings,  Part  XIV,  appendix,  p.  Z2m  .  .326.'>).  That  is  because  the  total  of  that  exhibit 
was  arrived  at  by  considering  only  advances  made  on  and  after  Jan.  10,  1918  (as  indi- 
cated at  the  end  of  the  text  preceding  the  tabulation),  whereas  the  total  shown  in  Mr. 
Lynch's  tabulation  is  fully  inclusive  for  the  entire  period  of  the  war. 


3152  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

1,  1919,  December  28,  1919,  and  June  15,  1920,  du  Pont  American  Industries, 
Inc.,  acted  as  the  sole  purchasing  and  selling  agent  for  the  United  States 
Government  of  all  cotton  linters  produced  in  the  United  States  during  the  life 
of  the  contract. 

The  United  States  Government  advanced  to  du  Pout  American  Industries, 
Inc.,  the  sum  of  $5,400,000  to  compensate  the  agent  for  the  utilization  of  its 
own  funds  in  the  purchase  of  linters  not  allocated  by  the  War  Industries 
Board  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  the  contract.  This  sum  was  deposited 
in  "  special "  bank  acc(junts  and  kept  separate  during  the  period  of  the  above 
stated  agreements.  Interest  accrued  to  the  credit  of  the  United  States  Gov- 
ernment and  upon  completion  of  the  contract,  the  principal  amount  plus  accrued 
intei'ej?t  of  $151,708.85  was  refunded  to  the  Government. 

In  tlie  performance  of  this  contract,  du  Pont  American  Industries,  Inc., 
financed  certain  purchases  out  of  its  funds.  Sales  of  linters  were  made  to 
individuals  or  firms  as  directed  by  the  War  Industries  Board  and  du  Pont 
American  Industries,  Inc.,  received  reimbursement  from  the  individuals  or 
firms  to  whom  linters  were  sold,  or  from  the  above  advances  from  the  United 
States  Government  in  instances  where  the  War  Industries  Board  failed  to 
allocate  materials  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  the  contract. 
Very  truly  yours, 

A.  C.  NiBir.soN,  Comptroller. 

(The  following  information  was  supplied  at  the  request  of  the 
committee.     See  text,  p.  2914.) 

E.  I.  DU  Pont  db  Nemours  &  Co., 

Wilmington,  Del.,  April  19,  19S5. 
United  States  Senate, 

Special  Committee  Investigating 

THE  Munitions  Industry, 

Washington,  D.  C. 

REPORT    OF    GOVERNMENT    CU.\IMS    DIVISION    FOR    JULY     1920     MADE    SEPTEMBER     14. 
1020,    IN    EEGARD    TO    MATERIALS    AGGREGATING    $20,800,000 

Gentlemen  :  During  the  hearings  held  in  December  1934  the  committee 
requested  further  information  in  regard  to  this  matter  in  event  same  had  no 
reference  to  the  Old  Hickory  plant. 

In  reply,  we  wish  to  state  that  this  claim  had  no  relation  to  Old  Hickory, 
but  instead  represented  materials  purchased  by  the  du  Pont  Co.  in  connection 
with  tlie  performance  of  certain  contracts  entered  into  between  du  Pont  Co. 
and  the  United  States  Government. 

Immediately  upon  the  signing  of  the  armistice,  the  du  Pont  Co.  suspended 
operations  on  the  various  Government  contracts  in  hand,  and  claims  were  sub- 
mitted to  the  Government  covering  sulphur,  cotton,  and  nitric  acid  purchased 
in  connection  with  the  fulfillment  of  said  contracts. 
Yours  very  truly, 

A.  C.  NiELSON,  Comptroller. 

(The  following  report  supplements  "  Exhibit  No.  1112."    See  text 
p.  2923.) 

January  28,  1935. 
Hon.  Gekald  P.  Nye, 

Chairman  Special  Committee  Investigating  the  Munitions  Industry, 

United  States  Senate. 

My  Dear  Mr.  Chairman  :  I  have  your  letter  of  January  3,  1935,  identified  as 
Treasury  request  no.  55-A,  having  reference  to  a  list  of  individuals  who  reported 
for  income-tax  purposes  net  incomes  in  excess  of  $1,000,000  during  certain  years. 
The  list  in  question  was  transmitted  to  you  with  my  letter  of  September  5,  1934, 
in  response  to  your  request  of  August  3,  1934,  identified  as  request  no.  26. 

Your  letter  of  Januai'y  3,  1935,  refers  to  the  information  previously  furnished 
as  "  a  list  of  all  persons  having  incomes  over  $1,000,000  in  3  or  more  of  the 
years  between  1915  and  1920,  inclusive  ",  and  the  request  is  made  that  there  be 
compiled  a  list  of  all  the  individuals  having  incomes  over  $1,000,000  in  any  one 
of  those  years.  The  quoted  expression  and  the  request  contained  in  your  letter 
leads  me  to  believe  that  the  exact  nature  of  the  list  previously  submitted  to  you 
has  not  been  fully  understood.    The  exact  nature  of  the  information  conveyed 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 


3153 


in  the  original  list  is  indicated  in  the  second  paragraph  of  my  letter  to  you  of 
September  5,  1934,  which  is  quoted  as  follows : 

"  I  advised  you  in  my  letter  of  August  20,  1934,  that,  in  accordance  with  the 
result  of  a  discussion  of  such  request  with  Mr.  Stephen  Haushenbush,  of  the 
committee's  staff,  there  w^ould  be  compiled  and  furnished  to  the  committee  a 
compilation  showing  the  names  of  all  individuals  with  net  incomes  in  excess  of 
$1,000,000  for  any  year  from  1917  to  19'20,  inclusive,  and  indicating  all  and  any 
years  between  1915  and  1920,  inclusive,  when  such  individuals  had  net  incomes 
in  excess  of  $1,000,000." 

In  other  words,  the  name  of  any  individual  taxpayer  who  reported  a  net 
income  in  excess  of  $1,000,000  for  any  year  from  1917  to  1920,  botli  inclusive,  is 
shown  on  that  list  together  with  an  indicatinu  of  the  year  for  which  the  reported 
net  income  was  in  excess  of  $1,000,000.  If  any  such  taxpayers  reported  net 
incomes  in  excess  of  $1,000,000  for  more  than  1  year  during  the  period  from  1917 
to  1920,  both  inclusive,  all  years  during  such  period  when  the  reported  net 
incomes  exceeded  $1,000,000  are  indicated.  Furthermore,  if  any  of  the  taxpayers 
who  reported  a  net  income  in  excess  of  $1,OOU,000  for  any  of  the  years  1917  to 
1920,  both  inclusive,  also  had  a  net  income  in  excess  of  $1,000,000  for  eitlier  one 
or  both  of  the  taxable  years  1915  and  1910,  such  fact  is  indicated  on  the  list. 

It  will  thus  be  seen  that  the  only  taxpayers  who  reported  net  incomes  in 
excess  of  $1,000,000  for  any  one  or  more  years  from  1915  to  1920,  both  inclu- 
sive, and  whose  names  have  not  been  furnished  to  the  committee  are  those  tax- 
payers, if  any,  who  may  have  reported  net  incomes  in  excess  of  $1,000,000  for 
either  one  or  both  of  the  years  1915  and  1916,  but  who  did  not  report  net  in- 
comes in  excess  of  that  sum  for  any  one  of  the  years  1917  to  1920,  both 
inclusive. 

In  order  that  the  committee  may  have  a  complete  record  of  all  individuals 
who  reported  net  incomes  in  excess  of  $1,000,000  for  any  one  or  more  of  the 
years  from  1915  to  1920,  both  inclusive,  it  now  becomes  necessary  to  furnish 
only  the  names  of  the  individuals  who  reported  net  incomes  in  excess  of  a 
million  dollars  for  either  one  or  both  of  the  years  1915  and  1916,  and  whose 
names  do  not  appear  on  the  list  furnished  you  with  my  letter  of  September  5, 
1934.  With  this  information  before  it,  the  committee  will  then  have  not 
only  the  names  of  all  individual  taxpayers  in  the  million-dollar  classification  for 
the  years  1915  to  1920,  both  inclusive,  but  also  an  indication  of  the  years  when 
the  reported  net  income  was  within  the  classification. 

I  trust  that  the  explanation  furnished  above  will  clarify  the  committee's 
undex-standing  of  the  information  heretofore  furnished  and  that  the  com- 
mittee's desires  with  respect  to  this  matter  will  be  fully  satisfied  by  submission 
of  the  names  of  any  individuals  who  reported  net  incomes  in  excess  of  $1,000,- 
000  for  either  or  both  of  the  years  1915  and  1916  and  whose  names  are  not 
contained  on  the  previous  list.    A  list  of  such  names  is  enclosed. 

In  the  event  that  further  correspondence  relative  to  this  matter  is  necessary, 
reference  should  be  made  to  IT  :  E  :  RRR-CWC. 
Very  truly  yours, 

T.  J.  CooLiDGE,  Acting  Secretary. 

Five  enclosures:  Copy  of  this  letter;  copy  of  letter  dated  August  20,  1934; 
copy  of  letter  dated  September  5,  1934 ;  photostats ;  copy  of  letter  from  chairman 
dated  August  3,  1934. 


Statistical  Section — Income  Tax  Unit 

Individuals  reporting  net  income  of  $1,000,000  or  over  for  one  or  loth  of  the 
years  1915  and  1916  who  did  not  report  $1,000,000  or  over  for  any  of  the  years 
1917-20,  showing  names  and  addresses  as  of  1916  and  indicating  by  an 
asterisk  the  years  in  which  the  net  income  ivas  $1,000,000  or  over 


Name  and  address 

1916 

1916 

Name  and  address 

1915 

1916 

Deeds,  Edward  A.,  Dayton,  Ohio 

* 

Kennedy,  S.  O.,  Tulsa,  Okla 

• 

Harwell,  E.  P.,  Tulsa,  Okla.... 

Kettering,  Charles  F.,  Dayton,  Ohio 

* 

Horlick,  William,  Racine,  Wis— 

Read,  William  A.,  New  York,  N.  Y... 

* 

» 

3154  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

(The  following  information  was  requested  by  the  committee  of  the 
Treasury  Department,    See  text,  f).  2924.) 

(Copy) 

IT : E : RRR 

Hon.  Arthur  H.  Vandenbebg,  .January  S,  1935. 

Special  Committee  Investigating  the  Munitions  Industry, 

United  States  Senate. 

My  Dear  Senator:  In  accordance  with  the  written  request  of  Chairman  Nye, 
of  the  Special  Committee  Investigating  the  Munitions  Industry,  I  submitted  to 
him  uiuU^r  date  of  September  5,  1934,  a  compilation  showing  the  names  of  all 
individuals  who  reported  for  income-tax  pur^wses  net  incomes  in  excess  of 
$1,000,000  for  any  year  from  1917  to  1920,  both  inclusive,  and  indicating  all  and 
any  years  between  1915  and  1920,  both  inclusive,  when  such  individuals  had  net 
incomes  in  excess  of  $1,000,000  according  to  the  income-tax  returns  as  filed  by 
them. 

The  data  in  question  were  submitted  in  evidence  as  an  exhibit  at  the  hearings 
being  held  before  the  committee  on  December  13,  1934,  and  were  properly  identi- 
fied at  that  time  by  an  official  of  the  Bureau  of  Internal  Revenue.  As  a  member 
of  the  committee,  you  asked  at  that  time  whether  it  would  be  possible  to  have 
submitted  the  amounts  of  net  incomes  and  the  amounts  of  taxes  thereon  with 
respect  to  each  of  the  individuals  whose  name  appears  upon  tlie  lists  and  for 
such  years  as  the  net  incomes  exceeded  $1,000,000  according  to  the  lists.  You 
were  advised  that  such  information  could  be  furnished  on  the  basis  of  the  returns 
as  filed  by  the  taxpayers. 

In  a  further  discussion  of  the  matter  with  you,  off  the  record,  it  was  agreed 
that  the  information  requested  by  you  .should  be  submitted  in  such  form  as 
would  not  disclose  the  name  of  the  taxpayer,  and  that  the  order  in  which  the 
statistics  taken  from  the  taxpayers'  returns  were  to  be  arranged  would  not  follow 
the  same  order  in  \\hich  the  taxpayers'  names  appear  on  the  lists  introduced  into 
evidence  before  the  committee  on  December  13,  1934,  thereby  preventing  identifi- 
cation of  the  statistics  relating  to  any  particular  taxpayer's  return  by  comparison 
of  the  lists  first  submitted  with  the  lists  to  be  furnished  later. 

The  lists  submitted  to  Chairman  Nye  wiih  my  letter  of  September  5,  1934, 
contain  the  names  and  addresses  of  181  individuals  who  reported  a  net  income 
of  $1,000,000  or  over  for  any  one  or  more  of  the  years  1917  to  1920,  both  inclu- 
sive. There  are  submitted  herewith  photostatic  copies  of  three  sheets  comprising 
the  new  lists,  prepared  in  accordance  with  your  request,  which  furnish,  in 
thousands  of  dollars,  the  net  income  and  total  tax  reported  in  the  case  of  each 
of  the  181  individuals  named  on  the  lists  submitted  under  date  of  September  5, 
1934,  with  the  net  incomes  and  taxes  shown  only  for  such  years  as  the  individ- 
uals in  question  reported  taxable  net  incomes  of  $1,000,000'  or  more  and  with 
the  data  taken  from  the  returns  in  an  arrangement  differing  from  that  used  in 
compiling  the  lists  which  were  introduced  in  evidence  before  the  committee  on 
December  13,  1934. 

Please  understand  the  data  submitted  herewith  have  been  compiled  on  the 
basis  of  information  taken  from  the  returns  as  originally  filed  by  the  taxpayers 
and  not  on  the  basis  of  returns  as  finally  adjusted  and  closed  by  the  Bureau  of 
Internal  Revenue.  This  method  of  compilation  was  stated  to  be  agreeable  to 
you  when  it  was  explained  that  it  greatly  simplified  the  work  of  the  Bureau  of 
Internal  Revenue  in  complying  with  your  request. 

I  trust  that  the  enclosed  information  fully  satisfies  your  desires  with  respect 
to  this  matter. 

In  the  event  that  further  correspondence  relative  to  this  matter  is  necessary, 
kindly  refer  to  IT :  B  :  RRR-CWC. 
Very  truly  yours, 

T.  J.  CooLiDGB,  Acting  Secretary. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 


3155 


s  e 

^o 

«  V 

■?^.2 

S3 

^'^3 

•8§ 

"S'^ 

co^ 

■^    Oi 

•s^  S 

'^  ^ 

s  ^ 

•ci   s~ 

»~i  «c 

00^ 

'-.^ 

p 

^ 

s  s. 

u 

^  ^ 

X 

CQ  H 

< 

■4^ 

H 

O 

^1 

S     CO 

S  « 

s  ^ 


E-i 
< 
H 
CO 


:::b 

a>  o 


fl  CD 

•::s 

«  o 


(C  o 


»i2  c 


?5iS 


83876— 35— PT  13- 


■  "J  CO      I  CO      I  Oi  Tt* 


"  CO  t^      i<0      I  lO  o 
'  '^    C^      "CO      <  -^  lO 


V^  CO      1  CO 


•  OiT)      I      I  .-( 


I  O  lO      t      t  .-( 


"-H        I       iCSCS        I        ».-t 


:  -H     .  ^  tor- 

I  t^  CO -^  i-H  C<l 


'  O  O)  r-.  CO      1  CN  M  (N  oi  O      I -^  Oi  ^      I  i^ 


I  coo      I      I  1-1  iO 


t^to     I     iiO^-OC^     icoc*» 


lOiCO-— lOl      iiO0OC^CO>— I       lOOOiO      IN 
•  TTOOCOOO      it^O-^OiC^      'OiOcO      ic5 


I  r^  lO  CJ  >— t  1  o  CO 

I  CO  t--  t~*  -^   I  OS  O 


,C^^^^   11-41-4 


I  iTi  r^  05  •— I  I  CO 


I  lO  ■<*«  -— <  ^    I  ,-H 

I  lO  00  O  00   I  »o 


1  00  CN  --I   I  'ij* 


1-icscorjiicicot^ooasr 

-17 


3156 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 


«0     CO 


►o 


-1 

•2    «:i 


CO 


CO 


•gs 

CO     S 

«  H 
§^ 

'^  o 
to 

Co 
^.'^ 


.^O 


O     S     45 

CO    S    'S 


Cn 


i 

1       1       1      It^      1      1      1       1       1       1       1       1  CO      1 1111111 05      1      1 

i      1      1      irti      1      1      t      1      1      1      1      100      1      1      1      1      1      1      1      t      1      1      1      1      1      1      1      1      1      1  t^      1      1 

1    1    1    1  !0 ltd 1    1    1    1     1    1    lO    1    1 

<D  O 

1  1  1  IS  :  ;  :  :  1  ;  1  12  ;  :  !  :  1  1  ;  1  :  :  ;  ;  1  1  :       \^ 
!  1  ;  ir^'  1  1  1  1  :  ;  1  1^*  1  ',  1  !  ;  !  ;  ;  ;  1  ;  1  1  1  1       ir-r 

i  :  i  i     i  i  i  i  i  i  ;  i     i  i  i  i  i  i  i  ;  i  i  i  i  ;  i  i       : 

(35 
c35 

11'             ■      'CO" INf<      1      1      1      r                         1 

in 

|8 

i  i  N  N  Ni  N§  N  ii  N  N§§  N  1  §  ^^^ 

1        1       1       1        1        1        1        1,-r      1       loo       1        1        Irt"      1        1       1       IcOC-l"      II                   rt           ■-<■■                  rHr-l"^" 

00 

03 

OlllI'lllloiOOlllllN'lloilllt^CTlQ         W        Ol        ■* 

S;  ;  1  1  :  1  1  :  ig§  1  1  1  155  :  !  13  1  !  1  issl   3   §   53 
1  1  1  1  1  1  1  1^-     1111      ;  !  !     1  1  ;  1^-    rt    -r         rt- 

a* 
ZB 
|8 

i  i  I  i  i !  i  i  i^i  i  i  i  ie  i  i  is  i  i  i  ills  §  i  § 

^1111111  1<N^  i  i  i  !'-'■;  i  i-^  i  i  i  i-^'^-''   -r   -i"   N 

en 

gS2s  isss  issss  is^ggg^g  i  igg  !«»slio    |S8 

tTi-ho-H      l-a-e^M      i«-*CO-^      iOOOOtPOiO      1      iN-ill      1 1~  t~  0  >0  "Ji  •<»<      COO'O'!*' 
^-1                         !                               1         r^^        r^           1      !                   1         Cf       «                   1 

gigi  iisi  iisSi  iisssss  i  is  giisii  esi 

Cf^-^-^-      Iw^-^-      l(N^-CO.H-      l^-(NC-frH'N-.H        1           ^-rH-         <NTirrt-CO--H,^-         CO^'^ 

to 
o 

cd 

i§  JSSS  is  isi  is  i  iiSsig  i  2S  giigSiillB 

;           1^-  1        1     ;  ;                1              -r 

.9  ® 

»  o 

§^  iiii  ia  ie§  i^  i  iisiss  i  iig  i^is^i^iisi 

rt-^-    Irtrtr^    loT    Irt'cf   1^*    1    1  CO pfco ON    1    1^"^'    lcqoo"c^"-H"-rco(Ncocfi-H' 

2 

CD 

ir' 

oot*    •  10    >t^    t    "    10500^    i    t    lo    loooo    •    t    '  »o    '    ' ;g      S^fe     N ^    I 

i     i     ;  i  i    '"'^  i  1  i     i"^"^     i  i  i        i-r                   i 
i     1     i  i  i          iiii          i                                 i 

^8 

Si:  ig  is  i  i  issg  :  i  if:  i§§s  i      2     ig   m   |2  i 
^^  1^-1^-1  ;  i^-cj^-  111^-  ',^co^'  1      -"     i?f  s-^'-"   "«  i 

Iiii;       iiii       i       i  i    i            i 

i 

CO 

1    i  i       1      N    i  i  i  i    i  i  1  i    i 

o         S 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTBY 


3157 


I  00  h-OO  »o  o 

t  CO  *0  CO  GO  iC 

1 1>- 1>  r^  !-■  O) 


I  lOC^  ^  o 

I  -^  i-H  Tt*  CM 


I  .-H  ^  (M  a;  ''t* 


I  lO  CO  OS  Oi  O  Oi  >— < 

I  o  o  t--  cs  ro  o  00 

I  •«*<  <M  <C  t^  l>-  lO  <N 


I  CO  OS  CO  Oi  Tf  IM  lO 
I  Oi  --H  O  Oi  O  CD  ■^ 
iOGOOOI>OS  — « 


I  Cq  r-l  .-I  f-H  C^  CO  C^ 


■*  00^  t^  w  t^ 

I  ooco  »o  c^  o  o 


i-i(N  (N  ^  ^ 


I  C^  GO  i-H  O  40  »0 

I  o  Tt<  i-H  oi  r^  CO 

I  CS  00  O  »0  IT)  CD 


I  i-l  ^  "*<  CO  --H  rH 


1  Oi  CM  OC5  t-^ 
I  CO  CO  '^r  -— I  Oi 
iCO^"*r  tP  00 


I  »CCO       I  t-4C0 


>  lO  CO  CM  .-H  .-<  t>- 
1  CD  CS  OS  Ol  <-i  ^ 
"'     -<  CO  CO  CM  CO 


I  T-t  CO  iC  CO  Tt< 


I  ,-lCMi-Hi-i  i-H 


I  wo  CO  00 
I  CM  .-^CM*" 


■  00  OS  "*  00  CO  CO 

I  CD  r-  CO  CM  lO  <-H 
I  O  CO  CO  O  >— '  "3 


,  ^  r-,  rH  1-H  I-H  CM 


I  COCM      I  .-I  OJC 


I  -"Ji  I-H   i-( 


I  t--  '^  CM  I-H  O  C 

t  OS  CO  OS  --I  OC 
1  lOCO  CM  ^  CM 


I  CM  OS 
Ios2h 
Icm"i-h 


I  CO  i-H  l-t  I-H 


I  CM  Tf  -!l<  CO '*  CO 
I  t^  O  CM  CM  -rf  cq 

I  OSO  CO  Tf  t^  o 


t  ■<**  CO  CM  CO  <-H  i-l 


■  .-H  O 

I  OS  '-J^ 

Ico'i-T 


1  ^  CO  CM  lO  -* 
1  C^l  OS  00  t^  CD 


HO  t*  OCO  O 
"  TO  •-<  CO  CD 
D  »0  00  O 

-^'.-TCM'i-r 


I  CM  CO 
1  -^  OS 
I  »0  CM 

IcM-'-T 


O  -hCMCOtT-  1 


O'-HCMCOTpuOCDt^OOOSO'-iCMCO'^iOCOt^OOOlO'— <C^C0'^*0CDt-000>OOC3OOOOOOO 
*^^*I^t*t^I>.^*^*^*^*0000000000000000CX)00OSOSOSOSCsOSO^O^O^OS»-^l--l^-^rtrt^I--^r=^?Hp^ 


DOSO'—CMcO-^iOOt^OOOSO 


3158 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


II 

So 


CO 


CO 


"e  CO 

•■s>   2 


^   H 


CO  s       z 


g-T^      3 


'lU 


§   S.S 


o 

03 

■ 1      1      1      .      1      1      1      1      1      ■  tDfJ      .      1— lOl      1      1      1      1      1      1      1      1      1      1      1. 

:  ;  :  1  1  i  1  1  i  I  1  1  1  1  1  ;  jgg  ,  |SS  :  1  I  I  1  ;  I  ;  :  i  ; 

i      '      ■      1      I      ■      1      1      1      1      1      IrPio      1      iM           >      1      1      1 

1    1    !    1    'i    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    !  00  lo    1    1  --  CO    1    i    1    1    i    1    1    1    1    !    r 

:  ;  :  1  j  ;  I  1  :  1  1  1  I  ;  1  :  :2S  1  ::=:g  1  ;  1  1  1  1  :  I  1  ;  : 

i    1    1    1    1   1    1   I   !    1    1    1   !    1    i    1    It^oj   !    Ico'-J"  ;   ]    1   1   1    ;    '    '    '   '   • 

i  i  i  i  ;  1  i  i  i  i  ;  i  i  i  i  i  i        i  i        i  i  i  ;  ;  ;  :  i  i  i  i 

ir' 

1  i  i  i  i  ii  i  i^  i :  i  i  i  M^^  i  h|  i  i  ill  i   igs  i 

(D  O 

M  i  i  Ms  i  ig  i  i  i  i  i  i  igi  i  igl     isS  Msi  i 

1  ;  1  :  ;  ',     :  ;     :  !  ;  i  ;  ;  :-'     ;  :            ;       ;     ;       i 

00 

M  i  M  M  M  i  :i2  ill  IiissBB  i§  i  i  i  i  ii  i  ii 
ilMMiliii     i     r         i   iiii!   !i 

^8 

:  i  :  i  i  ;  i  :  ;  ;  ;:5S  is§  igsssiss  ;?3  i  i  i  i  is  i  is 

1111 tOtO      iiC-H      iCOOCJO-OO)      ICO O      1        00 

r^ 

s 

b 

iiii                   i              i  i            i 

gSSSS?2   iSK   is?   i   igSKfe?SS2  isSSg?!   i   issSSS   ig 

r-ia3-ioiwio    iira^     lO    1     1  .-1  wocoooot^    i^cntoooo     i     i -<  co  c^  o     lO 

;     ;   ii       "     i         ii        i 

to 

s 

C3 

Eh 

11                 1             11111             1  -af            11 

i  i          i        i  i  i  i  1        ;          i  i 

zn 

<D  O 

i  1  ii^i  igi  N  i  i  i§i  i^§§  i  igis  iiiesiiii 

—1        i       l-HCJiN       1-,<N-      1        1       1        1        IrM.-H        l(M"<rrrH       1        ir-lrt'*        irt  FHr-l-HlN"C^"c<5-i^ 

en 

i  i  i  i  i|  igg  i  i  i  s  is  s  i  isr^g  i  i  iss|| 
i  i  i  i  i     i       i  i  i  i  i     i  i     i     i  i          iiii 

a  0) 

a>  o 

i  i  i  i  ii  isi  i  i  i  i  Ii  i  ii  ii  i  lis     i  i  isigi 

1111  jN"  1-r^-  1  1  1  ;  1^-  j  igj-  1^-  1   ^-,4  cm"       1  1  i,-,-^-,H-pf 

6 

c 

02 

i  i  i  i  N  i  N  i  i  i  i  N  N  N  i  i  i  i  i  i  i  i  i  i  h  1 

MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3159 


'JI1I!15'c3Iqo1'hIooI11'''''!ooI 

!    1    1    1     1     liN     i(N     '«     !o     1-3!     1    '    ' oot^     ' 

1      1      1      1      .      iTt>      lOJ      iiO      rcO      lO      1      1      1      1      1      1      1      1      lOOUO      1 
,      1      1      1      1      i«5      1  rt      1^      'O      lO      1      1      1      ■      1      ■      1      1      irtO      1 

1      !      1      1      1      1      loXN      1-*N      1      1.^      1      1      1      1      1      1      1      1      1      1      1      1 

tOt^      1-O<00      1      lOl      i      '      1      1      i      1      1      ■      1      ■      1      ■ 

OOtO      loot".      1      ilO 1      1      1      ■      1 

""i,'337" 
1,129 

1,396 
1,170 

5,467 

748 

988" 

""i,'627' 
1,677 

" 653" 

782 
822 

857" 

1,838 

851 

833 

648" 
751 

678 

Cfl      1      1  C^      toco      iO^.-HiO      1      HMOO'-H      iiOCO      1      1      1      lO      I      ' 
O)      >      lO      1  CD  «      1  O  ^  CO      1      iTJioS-^CS      1  O  1-1      1      1      1      tCO      1      1 

379 

221 

360 

1,057 

263 

1,188 
901 

513' 

""i,"049" 

1,448 

462 

778 

1,223 

644 

214 
1,882 
133 
198 
529 

(') 

1,123 
1,115 
1,403 
2,384 
1,203 
3,102 
2,743 

""'i,"54i" 

""""^.'gge' 

10, 674 
1,388 
1,651 
4,769 
1,486 

1,252 
4,382 
1,286 
1,962 
1,272 

1,252 

0»t~OCT.00-HO      llM      1      1      ■      i^JOOCJ       i-HCO      1      it~      ■rtTjl      1 

CJMO.COOOOOO  IS  1  1  1  :«3S  :?s  I  1^  :2S  :^ 

1,346 

1,008 
1,025 
2,310 
1,064 

2,587 
3,852 

"'"'i,'609" 

""'"§,"163" 
4,306 
1,533 

"'"4,"256' 
1,371 

"""7,"  356" 

"""i,"440" 
2,383 

2,134 

•10  0      lOl      1,-lcO ICO'-H      1      it^»      1      'Ci      1000      1      1 

1              t,H^       1       1       1       1       r       1  r-t  rH       I       I                     >       ■  C4       <         ,-)       i       i 

■WOO       'rH       i»0<0       1       1       1       1       1       lOO       1       it^OO       1       1-^       1  »0  10       1       1 

«O00      1— 1      iCCO» -^Oi      I      I'Hp      1      100      itOCO      1      1 

0  f—t      100      lOQO      1      '      1      '      1      IC003      '      ICOC^      1      1  r-"      1 10  t^"      1      1 

-i-T-T  IrH  I<Nc<r  1  1  1  1  1  Iciff-j'  1  irt,-r  1  ICO  irtPH  1  1 

id  CO  h-'  00  CTi'  0  -H  M  CO  ■*'  id  CO  t--'  00  OS  0  -h  c^'  cd  ■*'  id  cd  1-.'  00'  o>'  0  «' 
lOoioiciococococococDcocococot^t^t'-t^t^t^i^t^r^r^oooo 

3160 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


(The  following  lists  of  stockholders  in  Hercules  and  Atlas  Powder 
Co.'s  was  requested  of  the  du  Pont  Co.  by  the  committee.  See  text^ 
p.  2936.) 

Stock  and  number  of  shares   of  Hercules   Powder   Co.   held   hy  officers   and 
directors  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  as  of  Jan-  1,  1917 


Common 

Name 

Voting 

Non  Vot- 
ing 

Preferred 

P.  S.  du  Pont.. 

753 

299 

113 

748 

0 

0 

0 

1,100 

0 

0 

147 

438 

0 

243 

0 

286 

0 

32 

10 

251 

72 

1,772 
0 
0 

602 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 

245 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 

253 
28 

28 

H.  M.  Barksdale 

1,049 

C.  L.  Patterson 

885 

Irfinee  du  Pont . .  . . .  . 

0 

J.  A.  Haskell 

53 

E.  G.  Buckner 

100 

Frank  L.  Connable.. 

0 

Lammot  du  Pont 

0 

William  Covne 

0 

H.  F.  Brown 

18 

H.  G.  Haskell 

0 

R.  R.  M.  Carpenter. ......_.. 

0 

F.  O.  Tallman 

0 

Alexis  I.  du  Pont  .         ..... .  .  .  . 

355 

John  J.  Raskob ..     .      .  . 

0 

A.  Felix  du  Pont 

0 

Henry  Belin,  Jr. 

470 

J.  P.  Lafley 

57 

H.  F.  du  Pont 

5 

Eugene  du  Pont .                . 

367 

Eugene  E.  du  Pont 

0 

Total 

4,492 

2,900 

3,387 

Stock  of  Atlas  Poivder  Co.  held  bp  officers  and  directors  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 
Nemours  &  Co.  as  of  Jan.  1,  1917 


Office 

Pre- 
ferred 
$100  par 
value 

Voting 
common 
$100  par 

value 

Nonvot- 
ing com- 
mon $100 
par  value 

Pierre  S.  du  Pont 

President  and  director .. 

304 

1,444 

499 

2,436 

255 

13 

375 

1,421 

Hamilton  M.  Barksdale 

Vice  president  and  director 

24 

Charles  L.  Patterson 

do .  - 

Irenee  du  Pont 

do 

225 

J.  Armory  Haskell.. 

do - - 

25 
150 
44 
20 

E.  O.  Buckner.. 

do 

Frank  L.  Connable 

do 

27 
240 

Lammot  du  Pont 

do 

William  Coyne.. 

do-. 

H.  F.  Brown 

do 

104 
33 
26 

7 
275 

Harry  G.  Haskell.. 

do 

50 

R.  R.  M.  Carpenter 

..      do 

F.  G.  Tallman... 

do 

200 
170 

Alexis  I.  du  Pont 

Secretary 

149 

John  J.  Raskob 

Treasurer . 

A.  Felix  du  Pont 

Director.. 

294 
335 
32 
1,505 
282 
900 

23 
356 

21 

4 

177 

Henry  Belin,  Jr. 

..  .  do 

J.  P.  Laffey 

do. 

H.  F.  du  Pont. 

..do 

Eugene  du  Pont 

do. 

128 

Eugene  E.  du  Pont 

do 

Total 

6,279 

4,347 

1,947 

MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3161 

The  following  copies  of  du  Pont  Executive  Committee  minutes 
were  submitted  in  response  to  a  committee  request.    See  text,  p.  2941.) 

E.  I.  DU  Pont  de  Nbjiours  &  Co.  Executive  Committee 

QUESTION   OF  INCKEl^SING  OUR   MILITARY  POWDEB   CAPACITY 

At  this  point  discussion  again  ensued  as  to  the  question  of  increasing  our 
military  powder  capacity  in  order  to  take  care  of  prospective  orders,  as  a 
result  of  which  the  following  resolution  was  offered  and  unanimously  adopted : 

Resolved,  That  Vice  President  PI.  F.  Brown  request  the  engineering  depart- 
ment to  present  to  this  committee  as  soon  as  possible,  and  not  later  than  next 
Monday,  June  11,  an  appropriation  request  to  cover  the  cost  of  building  addi- 
tional smokeless-powder  capacity  at  Carney's  Point,  Haskell  and  Parlin  to 
utilize  the  guucotton  capacity  at  Hopewell  not  now  being  utilized  (estimated 
at  about  5,000,000  pounds  l)er  month),  this  additional  capacity  to  be  completed 
ready  for  operation  by  October  1,  1917,  with  the  understanding  that  the  com- 
pany will  be  assisted  by  the  United  States  Government  in  expediting  the  deliv- 
ery of  the  equipment  necessary  to  be  employed  in  this  construction. 

After  further  discussion,  the  following  resolution  was  offered  and  unani- 
mously adopted : 

Whereas,  the  best  information  we  get  from  Washington  leads  us  to  believe 
that  should  the  war  continue  it  is  quite  likely  we  shall  be  called  upon  to  supply 
10,000,000  pounds  of  smokeless  powder  per  month  in  addition  to  our  present 
capacity  and  the  capacity  required  to  utilize  the  guncotton  capacity  at  Hope- 
well not  now  being  utilized ; 

Resolved,  That  the  smokeless  powder  operating  department  be  requested  to 
study  this  problem  with  a  view  to  having  this  additional  capacity  available  by 
November  1,  1917,  and  make  a  report  to  this  committee  as  soon  as  possible 
with  recommendations. 

This  is  to  certify  that  the  foregoing  are  true  and  correct  copies  of  resolu- 
tions unanimously  adopted  by  the  Executive  Committee  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 
Nemours  &  Co.  at  a  meeting  held  on  June  4,  1917. 

M.   D.   FlSHEJB, 

Assistant  Secretary,  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  d  Co. 


Extract  from  Minutes  of  Meeting  of  Executive  OoMMiriEE  of  E.  I.  du  Pont 
DE  Nemours  &  Co.  Held  on  June  7,  1917 

QUESTION    of  increasing   OUR   SMOKELESS   POWDER   CAPACITY 

After  full  discussion,  the  following  resolution  was  offered  and  unanimously 
adopted : 

Whereas,  the  military  sales  department  advises  us  that  our  entire  output  of 
smokeless  powder  up  to  April  1,  1918,  has  been  sold,  except  128,000,000  pounds 
(counting  as  sold  the  offerings  of  58,850,000  pounds  to  the  United  States  Govern- 
ment which  are  awaiting  governmental  appropriations  before  final  acceptance)  ^ 
and 

Whereas,  we  have  at  Hopewell  guncotton  capacity  sufficient  to  manufacture 
approximately  5,200,000  pounds  of  nitrocellulose  powder  per  month ;  and 

Whereas,  Vice  President  H.  F.  Brown  advises  that  smokeless  powder  capacity 
can  be  added  to  Carney's  Point  Haskell,  and  Parlin  sufficient  to  manufacture 
5,200,000  pounds  of  nitrocellulose  powder  per  month,  at  a  cost,  based  on  engi- 
neering department  estimate  of  $3,050,000  (of  which  amount  approximately 
$1,000,000  will  have  to  be  spent  in  any  event  to  provide  additional  power  equip- 
ment) to  which  amount  it  may  be  necessary  to  add  approximately  $1,220,000 


3162  MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 

to  cover  cost  of  a  plant  to  make  up  the  sulphuric  acid  deficiency  in  the  manu- 
facture of  the  extra  5,200,000  pounds  of  guncotton  per  month ;  and 

Whereas,  this  additional  capacity  can  likely  be  available  for  production  on 
or  about  October  1,  1917,  thus  giving  added  capacity  of  approximately  75,000,000 
pounds  of  smokeless  powder  to  the  end  of  1918 ;  therefore,  be  it 

Resolved,  That  the  military  sales  department  be  advised  of  this  condition, 
and  that  the  executive  committee  are  ready  to  proceed  immediately  with  this 
construction  work  provided  the  cost  can  be  amortized  over  orders  which  the 
Allies  may  be  willing  to  give  should  they  deem  it  desirable  and  advisable  to 
have  this  increased  capacity. 

This  is  to  certify  that  the  foregoing  is  a  true  and  correct  copy  of  extract  from 
minutes  of  meeting  of  Executive  Committee  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  & 
Co.  held  on  June  7,  1917. 

W.   D.   FiSHEK, 

Assistant  Secretary,  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co. 


Extract  From  Minutes  of  Meeting  of  Executtvb  Committee  of  E.  I.  du  Pont 
DE  Nemours  &  Co.,  Held  on  June  26,  1917 

^miTARY  power  situation — question  of  increasing  smokeless-powder  capac- 
ity to  utilize  Hopewell's  excess  gun  cotton  capacity  of  5,000,000  pounds 
per  month  not  now  being  utilized 

In  compliance  witli  action  taken  at  meeting  June  18,  report  was  received 
from  the  chairman  dated  June  21,  1917  (no.  8756),  in  regard  to  the  contract 
between  the  Hercules  Power  Co.  and  the  Du  Pont  Co.,  whereby  the  latter 
agreed  to  furnisli  the  Hercules  Co.  with  2,000.000  pounds  of  gun  cotton  per 
month.  The  chairman  stated  that  he  had  taken  the  matter  up  with  Judge 
Laffey,  who  advises  that  the  quedtion  is  not  one  of  law  but  of  fact,  i.  0.,  what 
was  intended  in  the  arrangement  which  was  largely  oral  betv.een  Hercules 
and  Du  Pont.  The  chairman  further  stated  that  he  also  took  the  matter  up 
with  Mr.  R.  H.  Dunham,  president  of  the  Hercules  Co.,  who  definitely  stated 
that  although  the  contingency  of  the  war  continuing  for  a  long  period  and  the 
Hercules  Co.  being  out  of  orders  for  a  length  of  time  during  the  war,  were  not 
considered,  he  is  sure  that  had  it  been  considered,  Hercules  would  have  insisted 
that  they  have  the  call  on  the  output  of  the  plant  which  they  propose  to  amor- 
tize in  the  orders  given  to  Du  Pont  during  the  whole  period  of  the  war.  The 
chairman  further  stated  that  he  was  inclined  to  think  that  Du  Pont  would  have 
acquiesced  in  that  demand,  as  the  only  alternative  was  that  of  building  a  plant 
for  Hercules  at  their  cost  away  from  Hopewell,  which  would  have  involved  an 
engineering  burden  which  we  were  loath  to  take  on ;  that  such  being  the  case, 
he  was  inclined  to  think  that  we  should  asquiesce  in  Mr.  Dunham's  demand; 
that  if,  however,  the  United  States  Government  has  need  of  the  capacity  which 
is  temporarily  held  idle  he  thought  we  could  properly  go  to  Hercules  and  lay 
the  facts  before  them,  at  which  time  some  mutually  satisfactory  adjustment 
could  be  made. 

After  discussion  it  was  moved  and  unanimously  carried  that  this  communica- 
tion be  accepted  and  ordered  filed,  and  the  opinion  expressed  by  the  chairman 
approved. 

This  is  to  certify  that  the  foregoing  is  a  true  and  correct  copy  of  extract  from 
minutes  of  meeting  of  executive  committee  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  ik,  Co. 
held  on  June  26,  1917. 

M.  D.  Fisher, 
Assistant  Secretary,  E.  I.  du  Pont  d  Co. 

(The  following  information  was  requested  of  the  du  Pont  Co.  by 
the  committee.    See  text,  p.  2958.) 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


316a 


Officers  and  Directors  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  db  Nemoubs  &  Col,  Year  1917,  and 
Proposed  Officers  and  Directors  of  Du  Pont  Engine>;ring  Co-,  as  Sett 
Forth  in  Contract  Date»  Oct.  5.  1917,  Between  E.  I.  du  1'ont  de  Nemours- 
&  Co.  and  the  United  States  Government,  with  Respect  to'  the  Cox\stbuo- 
TioN  AND  Operation  of  a  Smokeless  Powder  Plant  to  Cost  Approximatei^y 
$90,000,000 

E.  I.  DU  PONT  DE  NEMOURS  &  CO.        DU  PONT  ENGINEERING  CO. 

'  President 

P.   S.   du  Pont  P.  S.  du  Pont 


H.  M.  Barksdale 
C.  L.  Patterson 
Ireuee  du  Pout 
J.  A.  Haskell 

E.  G.  Buckuer 
Frank  L.  Connable 
Lammot  du  Pont 
William  Coyne 

H.  F.  Brown 

H.  G.  Has-kell 

R.  R.  M.  Carpenter 

F.  G.  Tallman 


Vice  president 


Irenee  du  Pont 
E.  G.  Buckner 
H.   F.   Brown. 


Alexis  I.   du  Pont 


John   J.    Raskob 


P.  S.  du  Pont 
J.  A.  Haskell 
H.  M.  Barksdale 
C.  L.  Patterson 
Irenee  du  Pont 

E.  G.  Buckner 
Frank  L.  Connable 
John  J.  Raskob 
Alexis  I.  du  Pont 
Lammot  du  Pont 
A.  Felix  du  Pont 
William  Coyne 

H.  F.  Brown 

H.  G.  Haskell 

R.  R.  M.  Carpenter 

Hem-y  Belin,  Jr. 

J.  P.  Laffey 

H.  F.  du  Pont 

F.  G.  Tallman 
Eugene  du  Pont 
Eugene  E.  du  Pont 


Secretary 


Treasurer 


Directors 


Alexis  I.  du  Pont 


John   J.   Raskob 


P.  S.  du  Pont 
Ireuee  du  Pont 

E.  G.  Buckner 
Frank  L.  Connable 
John  J.  Raskob 
Alexis  I.  du  Pont 
Lammot  du  Pont 
William   Coyne 

H.  F.  Brown 
H.  G.  Haskell 
R.  R.  M.  Carpenter 
J.  P.  Laffev 

F.  G.  Tallman 
H.  M.  Pierce 


[Note. — It  will  be  observed  that  the  proposed  officers  of  the  Du  Pont  Engi- 
neering Co.  were  likewise  officers  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  All  of 
the  directors  of  the  proposed  Du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  were  likewise  directors 
of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  except  H.  M.  Pierce.] 


3164  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

(The  following  information  was  requested  of  the  du  Pont  Co. 
by  the  committee.    See  text,  p.  2963.) 

E.  I.  DU  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co., 

Wilmington,  Del,  April  11,  1935. 
United  States  Senate,  Special  Committee  Investigating 
The  Munitions  Industby, 

Washington  D.  C. 
Gentlemen  :  As  of  November  30,  1917,  the  number  of  stockholders  of  E.  I. 
■du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  was  as  set  forth  below : 

Common   stock 2,  259 

Debenture  stock 4,  333 

As  requested   by  you,  we  also  list  below  the  ten  largest   stockholders   of 
E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  as  of  November  30,  1917 : 

COMMON 

Du  Pont  Securities  Co. 

Alfred  I.  du  Pont. 

William  du  Pont. 

Pierre  S.  du  Pont. 

Henry  F.  du  Pont. 

Fidelity  Trust  Co.,  Tr.  u/w  Alexis  I.  du  Pont. 

Francis  I.,  A.  Felix,  and  Ernest  du  Pont,  Tr.  u/w  Francis  G.  du  Pont. 

E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co. 

Amelia  E.  du  Pont. 

Ralph  H.  Ensign. 

DEBENTUBH 

E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Powder  Co. 

Francis  I.,  A.  Felix,  and  Ernest  du  Pout,  Tr.  u/w  Francis  G.  du  Pont. 

Heni-y  F.  du  Pont. 

Fidelity  Tr.  Co.  Trustee  u/w  Alexis  I.  du  Pont. 

E.  E.  Beach. 

E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co. 

Amelia  E.  du  Pont. 

E.  G.  Buckner. 

John  L.  Riker. 

Estate  of  H.  M.  Boies. 

A.  C.  Nielsen,  Comptroller. 


The  following  information  is  included  in  the  record  at  the  request 
of  Julius  Forstmann  in  connection  with  "  Exhibit  No.  1112" : 

Cable  Address,  Forstmann,  Passaic. 

Julius  Fokstmann, 
Passaic,  N.  J.,  Decemher  21,  193If. 

Chairman,  Senate  Munitions  Committee, 

Senate  office  BniWing,  Washinffton,  D.  C. 

Sir:  In  the  newspapers  of  Friday,  December  14,  my  name  is  mentioned  as 
one  of  a  number  of  citizens  whose  incomes  during  all  or  part  of  the  years 
from  1915  to  1920  exceeded  one  million  dollars.  This  information  was  made 
public  at  the  instance  of  your  committee  during  an  investigation  of  the  muni- 
tions industries,  with  which  I  have  never  had  any  connection  whatever. 

In  order  to  correct  the  false  impression  which  the  publication  of  my  name 
at  this  time  may  have  created,  I  am  enclosing  herewith  a  letter  dated  Decem- 
ber 20,  1934,  from  the  firm  of  Lylirand,  Ross  Bros.  «&  Montgomery,  accounts, 
certifying  that  the  cf)mpany,  of  which  I  am  founder  and  president,  made  no 
profits  on  the  contracts  for  uniform  cloths,  which  were  tlie  only  contracts  it 
ever  made  with  tlie  United  States  Government.  It  certifies  also  that  neither 
the  company  nor  I  personally  have  ever  had  any  shares  or  interest  in  any 
concern  manufacturing  munitions  of  war. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3165 

When  the  United  States  entered  the  World  War,  the  Forstmann  Woolen 
•Co.  (formerly  Forstmann  &  Huffmaun  Co.)  began  the  manufacture  of  uniform 
materials  at  the  request  of  the  Government.  Later,  at  the  invitation  of  the 
Senate  Military  Affairs  Committee,  I  testified  regarding  the  practicability 
and  serviceability  of  uniform  cloths  as  they  were  then  being  manufactured. 
Shortly  thereafter  I  was  asked  by  Major  General  George  W.  Goethals,  newly 
appointed  Quartermaster  General,  to  suggest  revised  specifications.  I  sub- 
mitted new  specifications  which  were  adopted  as  standards  on  which  all  suc- 
ceeding contracts  for  Army  uniform  materials  were  made.  After  peace  was 
declared  my  company  received  from  the  War  Department  the  Distinguished 
Service  Certificate  with  a  letter  citing  the  reasons  for  the  award,  both  of 
which  I  attach  to  this  letter. 

Our  production  of  uniform  cloths  for  the  Government  during  the  participa- 
tion of  the  United  States  in  the  World  War  was  the  only  time  we  have  ever 
produced  materials  for  military  purposes  either  for  the  United  States  or  for 
any  other  government. 

Since  these  facts  have  at  all  times  been  available  to  your  committee,  or  to 
anyone  else  interested  in  them,  it  is  only  fair  that  they  be  placed  in  your 
records. 

Very  truly  yours, 

Juuus  Forstmann. 


Lybeand,  Ross  Bkos.  &  Montgomeey, 

Accountants  and  Auditors, 
90  Broad  Street,  New  York,  December  20,  1984. 
-Resident  partners: 

William  M.  Lybrand, 
Robert  H.  Montgomery, 
Walter  A.  Staub, 
H.  Hilton  Dumbrille, 
Thomas  B.  G.  Henderson, 
Prior  Sinclair, 
Hermon  F.  Bell, 
Norman  J.  Lenhart, 
Conrad  B.  Taylor. 

Mr.  Julius  Forstmann, 

Passaic,  N.  J. 

Dear  Sir:  As  requested  by  you,  we  have  reviewed  our  records  in  connection 
with  the  examinations  made  by  us  for  the  year  1917  and  subsequent  years  as 
auditors  of  Forstmann  and  Huffmann  Company  and  its  successor,  Forstmann 
Woolen  Company,  both  of  which  companies  were  controlled  and  managed  by 
you  and  furnished  the  principal  source  of  your  income. 

During  the  year  1919  and  subsequently  we  made  an  investigation  of  the 
financial  results  of  the  contracts  entered  into  by  your  company  with  the 
United  States  Government  during  1917  and  1918  for  the  manufacture  of 
Army  uniform  material.     This  investigation  disclosed  that : 

1.  The   net  profit   resulting  to  the   company   from   the  said   contracts   was 
^\  approximately  2  percent  of  the  contract  price; 

2.  The  company  had  to  cancel  a  number  of  profitable  civilian  orders  in 
order  to  undertalie  the  Government  contracts,  and  that  the  profit  which 
would  have  resulted  from  the  civilian  orders  would  have  been  far  in  excess 
of  the  small  profit  obtained  from  the  Government  contracts,  so  that  the 
undertaking  of  the  Government  contracts  caused  the  company  to  sustain 
a  loss  of  profits  whiclv  could  otherwise  have  been  earned. 

3.  The  company  had  contracted  for  materials  in  anticipation  of  manufactur- 
ing further  supplies  of  army  uniform  material  which  it  had  been  informed 
by  the  Government  would  be  required  in  considerable  quantities  and  no  reim- 
bursement was  ever  received  for  the  loss  sustained  on  the  disposition  or 
utilization  of  such  materials. 

4.  No  reimbursement  was  ever  received  for  the  expense  and  loss  of  profits 
occasioned  by  the  transfer  of  mill  operation  from  civilian  business  to  the 
manufacture  of  army  uniform  material,   or  from  the  sudden   reversion  from 


3166  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

manufacture  of  such  material  to  civilian  goods  at  the  time  of  the  armistice, 
without  any  opportunity  for  securing  sufficient  orders  for  civilian  goods  in 
preparation  for  such  change.  The  loss  on  materials  referred  to  under  3 
and  the  expense  resulting  from  the  conversion  of  mill  operation  from  manu- 
facturing army  material  to  civilian  goods  was,  in  our  opinion,  substantially  in 
excess  of  the  small  amount  of  profit  derived  from  war  contracts. 

We  are  of  the  opinion  that  the  profits  earned  by  the  company  during  the  war 
years,  which  were  derived  from  civilian  business,  were  not  in  any  way  excessive 
considering  the  size  and  character  of  production  of  the  company's  mills,  as  is 
indicated  by  the  fact  that  for  a  number  of  years  following  the  termination  of 
the  war  the  company's  profits  were  materially  larger  than  during  the  war 
years. 

We  further  state  that  the  company  has  owned  no  shares  of  stock  or  other 
Interest  in  any  concern  manufacturing  munitions  of  war  either  during  the  war 
years  or  since. 

Very  truly  yours, 

Lybrand,  Ross  Bros.  &  Montgomery. 
CBT:C 


Supply  Division,  General  Staff. 

War  Department, 
Office  of  the  Chief  of  Staff, 

Washington,  May  27,  1922. 
Forstmann  &  Huffman  Company, 

Passaic,  New  Jersey. 
Gentlemen  :  In  accordance  with  recommendation  of  the  Quartermaster  Gen- 
eral, a  certificate  of  merit  has  been  awarded  and  will  be  sent  you  under  separate 
cover. 

The  citation  by  the  Quartermaster  General  is  as  follows : 
"  This  company  gave  practically  the  entire  capacity  of  their  plant  for  the 
period  of  the  emergency  in  the  manufacture  of  materials  for  uniforms  and 
overcoats.  The  quantity  of  the  work  performed  was  large,  the  character  of 
the  services  was  excellent,  and  the  company  executed  its  contracts  with  the 
Government  in  a  manner  highly  satisfactory  to  all  concerned." 

It  is  very  gratifying  to  me  to  be  enabled  to  transmit  this  visible  recognitior 
of  patriotic  war  service. 
Yours  very  truly, 

W.  D.   Connor, 
Brigadier  General,  Assistant  Chief  of  Staff,  G-i, 
By  Joseph  F.  Barnes, 
Lieutenant  Colonel,  General  Staff,  Executive. 


X 


f3  <//-3Xjl)^ 

MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY 


HEARINGS 

BEFORE  THE 

SPECIAL  COMMITTEE 

INVESTIGATING  THE  MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY 

UNITED  STATES  SENATE 

SEVENTY-THIED  CONGRESS 

PUESDANT  TO 

S.  Res.  206 

A  RESOLUTION  TO  MAKE  CERTAIN  INVESTIGATIONS 

CONCERNING  THE  MANUFACTURE  AND  SALE 

OF  ARMS  AND  OTHER  WAR  MUNITIONS 


PART  14 

DECEMBER  14,  1934 

OLD  HICKORY  CONTRACT  (Continued) 


Printed  for  the  use  of  the 
S'pecial  Committee  Investigating  the  Munitions  Industry 


UNITED  STATES 
GOVERNMENT  PRINTING  OFFICE 
83876  WASHINGTON :  1936 


MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY 

HEARINGS 

BEFORE  THE 

SPECIAL  COMMinEE 

INVESTIGATINGf  THE  MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY 

UNITED  STATES  SENATE 

SEVENTY-THIRD  CONGRESS 

PURSUANT  TO 

S.  Res.  206 

A  RESOLUTION  TO  MAKE  CERTAIN  INVESTIGATIONS 

CONCERNING  THE  MANUFACTURE  AND  SALE 

OF  ARMS  AND  OTHER  WAR  MUNITIONS 


PART  14 

DECEMBER  14,  1934 

OLD  HICKOKY  CONTRACT  (Continued) 


Printed  for  the  use  of  the 
Special  Committee  Investigating  the  Munitions  Industry 


UNITED  STATES 
GOVERNMENT  PRINTING  OFFICE 
83876  WASHINGTON  :  1935 


HArvAKD  cot 

TRANSFEREE 
iRAOUAli  SCHU 


SPECIAL    COMMITTEE    INVESTIGATING    THE    MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 
GERALD  P.  NYE,  North  Dakota,  Chairman 


WALTER  F.  GEORGE,  Georgia 
BENNETT  CHAMP  CLARK,  Missouri 
HOMER  T.  BONE,  Wasbington 
JAMES  P.  POPE,  Idaho 


ARTHUR  H.  VANDENBERG,  Michigan 
W.  WARREN  BARBOUR,  New  Jersey 


Stephen  Raushbnbush,  Secretary 
Alger  Hiss,  Legal  Assistant 


CONTENTS^ 


Testimony  of —  Page 

Banker,  W.  B.,  assistant  cliief  engineer,  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours 

&   Co 3167,  3169 

Bradway,   F.   W.,  assistant  general  manager,   smolieless-powder  de- 
partment, E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co 3182 

Brannon,  Lt.  E.  M.,  first  lieutenant.   Infantry,  in  the  Judge  Advo- 
cate General's  Department 3180 

Carnduff,  Arthur,  special  attorney.  Bureau  of  Internal  Revenue-  3232,  3235, 

3237,  3240,  3243,  3248,  3256,3259 
du  Pont,  Iren^e,  vice  chairman  of  board  of  directors,  E.  I.  du  Pont 

de  Nemours  &  Co 3170  3171,3173,3177,3182,3183, 

3190,  3196,  3199,  3204,  3206,  3210,  3215,  3217,  3222,  3224,  3242,  3248 

du,  Lamont,  president  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co 3167 

du  Pont,  Pierre  S.,  chairman  of  board  of  directors,  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 

Nemours   &   Co 3168,3170,3173,3176,3179,3182, 

3187,  3191,  3196,  3197,  3200,  3205,  3208,  3211,  3213,  3217,  3223,  3225 

Eliason,  J.  Bayard,  treasurer  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co 3195,  3209 

Gregg,  William  S.,  attorney,  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co__-     3172,  3178, 
3181,  3219,  3222,  3224,  3226,  3229,  32,33,  3236,  3253,  3258 
Harris,  Lt.  Col.  C.  T.,  in  the  planning  branch,  office  of  the  Assistant 

Secretary  of  War 3180,  3185,  3191,  3210,  3212,  3235 

Moore,  R.  M.,  chief  division  of  records.  Department  of  Justice 3240 

Nielsen,  A.  C,  comptroller  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co__  3167,  3222,  3225 
War    Industries    Board    objections    to    compensation    demanded    by    du 

Pont   Co 1 3173 

Continuance  of  negotiations  on  part  of  Ordnance  Department 3179 

Offer  of  Secretary  of  War  Baker  to  pay  $1,000,000  and  to  arbitrate  as 

to   balance 3184 

Delay  in  construction  for  3  months  due  to  disagreement  as  to  amount  of 

compensation  to  du  Pont  Co 3191 

Secretary  of  War  notified  du  Pont  Co.  that  negotiations  were  closed 3210 

Formal  contract  executed  shortly  after  resumption  of  negotiations 3215 

Amended  conti'act  executed  3  months  later 3220 

Profits  of  du  Pont  for  construction  and  operation  of  Old  Hickory 3222 

Mason  and  Hanger  subcontract  fee  of  $1,000,000 " 3225 

Auditing  of  Old  Hickory  contract 3231 


^  In  cases  of  exhibits  comprised  of  excerpts  from  the  minutes  of  certain  war-time 
civilian  boards  only  such  parts  as  were  actually  entered  into  in  the  hearings  have 
been  published  in  the  appendix.  At  a  later  date  the  committee  ordered  to  be  printed 
separately  as  committee  prints  the  minutes  of  the  following  agencies  :  War  Industries 
Board,  Price  Fixing  Committee  of  the  War  Industries  Board,  Council  of  National  Defense, 
Advisory  Commission  of  the  Council  of  National  Defense,  Munitions  Standards  Board, 
General   Munitions   Board. 


INVESTIGATION  OF  MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY 


FRIDAY,  DECEMBER  14,  1934 

United  States  Senate, 

Special  Committee  to 
Innestigate  the  Munitions  Industry, 

Washington^  D.  C. 

The  hearing  was  resumed  at  10  a.  m.,  in  the  Finance  Committee 
room.  Senate  Office  Building,  pursuant  to  the  taking  of  recess,  Sen- 
ator Gerald  P.  Nye  presiding. 

Present:  Senators  Nye  (chairman),  Clark,  Pope,  Vandenberg,  and 
Barbour. 

Present  also :  Alger  Hiss,  legal  assistant  to  the  committee. 

The  Chairjian.  The  committee  will  be  in  order. 

At  this  point  the  committee  concluded  that  part  of  the  testimony 
which  is  incorporated  in  Part  XIII  of  these  hearings,  "  Profiteering, 
Government  Contracts,  and  Expenditures  during  the  World  War, 
Including  Early  Negotiations  for  Old  Hickory  Contract." 

TESTIMONY  OF  IRENEE  DU  PONT,  PIERRE  DU  PONT.  LAMONT  DTJ 
PONT,  WILLIAM  S.  GREGG,  J.  BAYARD  ELIASON— Recalled 

(The  witnesses  were  previously  duly  sworn  by  the  chairman.) 

Mr.  Lammot  DU  Pont.  Mr.  Chairman,  before  you  start  on  your 
line  of  inquiry  today 

The  Chairman.  It  was  just  suggested  that  there  were  two  wit- 
nesses whom  we  might  be  calling  on  during  the  day,  or  who  might 
have  occasion  to  offer  testimony,  and  we  would  like  to  swear  them. 

If  you  will  give  your  name  to  the  reporter. 

Mr.  Banker.  W!^  B.  Banker. 

The  Chairman.  And  your  official  connection  with  the  du  Pont 
Co.? 

Mr.  Banker.  Assistant  chief  engineer. 

The  Chairman.  And  your  name  [referring  to  second  witness]  ? 

Mr.  Nielsen.  A.  C.  Nielsen. 

The  Chairman.  And  your  official  capacity? 

Mr.  Nielsen.  Comptroller  of  the  du  Pont  Co. 

TESTIMONY  OF  W.  B.  BANKER  AND  A.  C.  NIELSEN 

(The  witnesses  were  duly  sworn  by  the  chairman.) 

The  Chairman.  Now,  Mr.  du  Pont. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Senator,  this  matter  refers  to  a  previous 
hearing.     In  the  September  hearings  your  committee  asked  us  to 
give  our  views  on  the  munitions  question. 
:  3167 


3168  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

The  Chairman.  Yes. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  We  prepared  a  letter  under  date  of  No- 
vember 14,  which  was  sent  to  you  and  the  other  members  of  your 
committee,  and  I  would  like  to  have  that  letter  submitted  as  an 
exhibit  and  given  an  appropriate  number. 

The  Chairman.  The  Chair  has  been  advised  that  that  has  already 
been  done.  Likewise  that  was  done  with  the  communication  from 
the  United  Aircraft  Corporation.  For  a  time  it  w^as  thought  advis- 
able to  delay  entry  into  tiie  record  until  we  reached  the  point  in  our 
enquiry  where  we  were  going  to  sit  down  to  the  technical  consider- 
ation of  ways  and  means  and  plans,  as  the  committee  has  in  mind, 
but  it  is  a  part  of  the  record  and  will  appear  in  the  volumes  covering 
the  September  hearings.' 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  As  an  exhibit? 

The  Chairman.  As  an  exhibit. 

Mr.  Lammot  du  Pont.  Thank  you. 

The  Chairman.  You  may  proceed,  Mr.  Hiss. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Mr.  Chairman,  before  we  commence  with 
Mr.  Hiss'  examination,  I  would  like  to  call  attention  to  one  or  two 
exhibits  which  were  presented  yesterday.  First  the  exhibit  show- 
ing the  proposition  submitted  by  the  du  Pont  Company,  October  8, 
with  regard  to  the  building  of  a  smokeless  powder  factory.  I,  un- 
fortunately, have  not  the  number  here.^ 

Mr.  Hiss.  Yes;  Mr.  du  Pont. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  wish  to  call  attention  to  paragraph  9  of 
that  exhibit,  on  page  5.     It  states : 

While  this  proposition  contemplates  the  construction  and  operation  of  plants 
with  a  total  capacity  of  approximately  one  million  pounds  of  water-dried 
smokeless  cannon  powder  per  day,  it  is  understood  that  in  case  the  Government 
desires  plants  constructed  and  operated  with  a  lesser  total  capacity,  the  terms 
and  conditions  of  this  proposal  will  apply  to  any  such  plant  or  plants  of  lesser 
capacity. 

That  is,  it  was  for  the  whole  or  part  of  the  proposition. 

Then  at  the  recommendation  of  the  War  Department  it  was 
changed  to  a  definite  1,000,000  pounds  per  day,  when  the  contract 
of  October  25  was  drawn — not  at  our  instance. 

I  would  also  like  to  call  attention  to  a  letter  of  November  1,  1917,* 
a  letter  addressed  to  Colonel  Buckner  by  the  president  of  the  du 
Pont  company,  at  the  bottom  of  page  1,  referring  to  the  drawings 
[reading]  : 

The  engineering  and  mechanical  work  necessary  for  making  drawings  of 
apparatus  is  completed.  These  drawings  could  not  be  prepared  anew  without 
great  expense  and  greater  loss  of  time  due  to  difficulty  of  obtaining  drafts- 
men for  work  on  the  scale  required.  I  mention  that  the  blueprints  used  for 
our  factories  would  cover  some  sixty  acres  of  ground  if  spread  out,  giving  some 
idea  of  the  enormous  work  involved  in  that  preparation,  and  in  the  great  sav- 
ing to  the  Government  in  both  time  and  money  in  having  this  material  at 
hand. 

That  is  the  drawings  of  the  apparatus. 

Yesterday  we  took  up  the  question  of  the  completion  of  the  draw- 
ings. You  will  note  that  these  are  the  drawings  of  the  apparatus. 
And  as  the  site  was  not  chosen  until  later,  none  of  these  drawings 
could  apply  to  the  site  chosen.     Therefore,  all  the  drawings  relating 

1  Hearings,  Part  V,  text  p.  1260,  appendix  p.  1411. 
2"Bxliibit  No.  1126",  Hearings,  I'art   XIII,  p.  2!)40. 
»  "  Exhibit  No.   1132  ",  Hearings,   Part  XIII,  p.   2961. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3169 

to  surveys  and  placing  of  the  buildings  and  apparatus  on  the  ground 
were  still  incomplete  on  November  1. 

Mr.  Hiss.  May  I  ask  one  or  two  questions  about  that,  to  be  sure 
I  understand,  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  first  sentence  says :  "  The  engineering  and  mechan- 
ical work  necessary  for  making  drawings  of  apparatus  is  com- 
pleted "  and  those  last  two  words  are  underscored. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  This  is  November  1,  and  the  point  we  were  specifically 
discussing  yesterday  was  a  rather  technical  legal  one,  of  how  far 
the  completion  had  progressed  on  October  25. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  As  I  remember  it,  you  said  you  could  not  be  sure;  you 
did  not  remember.  I  then  intended  to  ask — I  am  not  sure  that  I 
made  it  clear — how  long  a  job  engineering  and  mechanical  work 
necessary  for  making  drawings  of  apparatus  is,  and  whether  it  could 
be  completed  in  the  short  space  of  time  between  October  25  and 
November  1.  And,  as  I  remember  it,  you  indicated  that  you  hardly 
thought  it  could  be  completed  in  that  period  of  time.  Is  that 
correct  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir;  that  is  the  whole  drawings.  This 
relates  to  the  drawings  of  the  apparatus  only. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  meant  merely  the  engineering  and  mechanical  work 
necessary  for  making  drawings. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  May  I  say,  Mr.  Hiss,  I  am  not  competent  to 
express  an  opinion  on  this.  What  I  would  say  would  be  a  mere 
guess,  and  if  agreeable  you  may  refer  in  the  record  to  any  informa- 
tion given,  that  it  should  be  marked  as  a  guess  or  stricken  out. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Will  you  ask  Mr.  Banker  approximately 
how  many  man-hours  it  would  take  to  do  the  drawings  for  the 
buildings  of  the  Old  Hickory  plant  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Banker,  the  first  sentence  of  the  paragraph  to  which 
Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont  has  called  attention  reads  as  follows,  referring 
to  the  bottom  paragraph  on  the  first  page: 

The  engineering  and  mechanical  work  necessary  for  making  drawings  of 
apparatus  is  completed. 

Could  you  give  an  estimate  of  how  long  it  would  have  taken  the 
force  then  assembled  in  the  du  Pont  Co.  to  do  the  work  referred  to 
in  that  first  sentence  ? 

Mr.  Banker.  I  am  not  sure  that  I  know  just  what  that  first  sen- 
tence means.  "  The  engineering  and  mechanical  work  necessary  for 
making  drawings  of  apparatus  is  completed." 

Mr.  Hiss.  Had  not  the  company  already  that  experience  from  its 
previous  manufacturing  of  apparatus  for  its  own  plants? 

Mr.  Banker.  We  had  a  number  of  drawings  for  apparatus  which 
had  to  be  adapted,  early  drawings,  to  a  specific  site. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  respect  to  the  apparatus  as  well  as  buildings  that  is 
true,  is  it? 

Mr.  Banker.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  say  that  you  had  drawings  completed  and  they 
needed  to  be  adapted.  Which  is  referred  to  here,  merely  the  draw- 
ings, the  work  necessary  for  adaptation,  or  the  work  necessary  for  the 
original  drawings? 


3170  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Banker.  The  work  necessary  for  ada])tation  in  a  majority 
of  the  cases.  In  certain  cases  we  had  to  design  for  that  specific 
plant;  we  had  to  design  apparatus  for  that  specific  job. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  second  sentence,  Mr.  Pierre  dii  Pont,  says  [reading]  : 

These  drawings  could  not  be  prepared  anew  without  great  expense  and 
greater  loss  of  time,  due  to  difficulty  of  obtaining  draughtsmen  for  work  on  the 
scale  required. 

I  take  it  to  mean  that  there  had  been  considerable  completion  on 
this  work  of  drawings. 

The  third  sentence  says  [reading]  : 

I  mention  that  the  blueprints  used  for  our  factories  would  cover  some  60 
acres  of  ground — 

these  are  blueprints  already  in  existence  which  would  be  adaptable 
for  use  of  other  factories;  is  that  correct? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pois^t.  I  am  sorry. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  third  sentence  says  [reading]  : 

I  mention  that  the  blueprints  used  for  our  factories  would  cover  some  60 
acres  of  ground. 

That  means  your  then-existing  factories? 
Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir. 
Mr.  Hiss  (reading)  : 

*     *     *     would  cover  some  60  acres  of  ground. 

I  judge  that  they  are  implying  in  that  sentence  that  the  experience 
that  your  company  has  had  in  building  plants  would  enable  you  to  do 
the  work  of  building  Old  Hickory  more  quickly  than  any  other 
company.     Is  that  correct? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  that  would  be  true;  yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Therefore,  what  you  would  be  selling  in  this  case  would 
be  your  experience  rather  than  specific  work? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Experience  was  certainly  enormously 
valuable. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  regard  to  the  60  acres  of  blueprints,  you  would  not 
have  to  duplicate  them? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  A  great  many  of  them  were  standard.  If 
you  would  like  to  see  the  drawings,  we  can  get  a  freight  car  and 
bring  them  down. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  do  not  think  that  is  necessary. 

Yesterday  there  was  a  reference  to  advances  made  by  the  United 
States  Government  to  the  du  Pont  Co.  during  the  war  for  various 
purposes,  and  a  statement  was  to  be  furnished  to  the  committee  as  to 
that.  In  the  meantime,  I  have  found  a  document  which  we  had 
received  earlier,  prepared  by  the  publicity  bureau  of  the  du  Pont  Co. 
in  1922,  which  I  will  offer  as  an  exhibit  together  with  the  statement 
of  advances. 

(The  documents  referred  to  were  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1138  "  and 
are  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3261.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  last  complete  paragraph  on  page  1  says  [reading]  : 

The  money  advanced  by  the  United  States  Government  to  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 
Nemours  &  Co.  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  du  Pont  Co.)  was  used  for  the 
purchase  of  raw  materials  for  the  fulfillment  of  contracts  to  supply  the  Govern- 
ment with  explosives — 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3171 

From  that  sentence  I  would  judge  that  advances  were  made  to  the 
parent  company  for  the  manufacture  of  explosives,  just  as  European 
governments  made  advances. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  No;  not  all.  I  think  these  advances  were 
payments  on  materials  ordered  or  delivered.  I  am  not  sure  at  just 
what  point.  But  there  were  no  such  advances  made  as  in  the  case  of 
European  governments,  lump  sums  prior  to  the  starting  of  construc- 
tion or  operation. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  first  complete  paragraph  on  page  2  at  the  bottom 
says,  Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  The  statement  will  stand  itself,  if  there  is  a 
detail  of  it. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Will  you  turn  to  page  2  of  the  memorandum? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  there  were  no  cases  of  advances  com- 
plete on  50  percent  of  the  contract. 

Mr.  Hiss.  If  we  can  just  stick  to  this  memorandum. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir,  Mr.  Hiss. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  first  complete  paragraph  on  page  2  [reading]  : 

The  records  show  that  the  $54,807,380.83  advanced  to  the  du  Pont  Co.  has 
been  completely  liquidated  and  accounted  for  by  the  completion  of  contracts, 
the  delivery  of  material,  the  settlement  of  claims,  or  the  return  of  cash  to  the 
United  States  Treasury. 

This  is  in  1922.     [Continuing  reading :] 

To  a  subsidiary  of  the  du  Pont  Co.,  viz,  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.,  the 
Government  advanced  money  to  be  used  and  which  was  used  only  in  connection 
with  the  construction  and  operation  of  Government-owned  plants. 

In  addition  to  the  Old  Hickory  plant,  your  company  operated  on 
behalf  of  the  Government  and  constructed  on  behalf  of  the  Govern- 
ment other  plants? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss  (continuing  reading)  : 

For  the  construction  of  Government-owned  plants  the  du  Pont  En- 
gineering Co.  received  direct  advances  fi'om  the  War  Department  total- 
ing $24,506.2,50  and  in  addition  thereto  the  sum  of  $160,579.87,  making  a 
total  of  $24,666,829.87.     *     *     * 

The  remainder  of  the  funds  advanced  by  the  Government  to  the  du  Pont 
Engineering  Co.,  viz,  $20,667,800,  was  advanced  for  use  in  the  procurement  of 
raw  materials     *     *     *. 

In  other  words,  a  total  of  $45,000,000  and  some  odd  hundred 
thousands  was  advanced  to  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  in  connec- 
tion with  the  half  dozen  or  so  contracts  which  you  had  with  the 
Government  for  construction  or  operation  of  the  plants.  Is  that 
correct  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  am  not  sure  what  3^ou  mean  by  "  advances." 
Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Could  I  refresh  Pierre's  memory?  At  the 
time  we  actually  started  to  build  at  cost  plus  $1  the  Old  Hickory 
plant,  the  Government  put  in  our  hands  a  revolving  fund  of,  I 
think,  roughly,  $18,000,000,  from  which  we  paid  vouchers,  and  they 
replenished  the  fund  as  they  approved  the  vouchers.  I  think  in  a 
short  time  it  demonstrated  that  the  machinery  of  the  Government 
could  not  replenish  it  fast  enough,  and  it  was  increased  later.  There 
was  a  rotating  fund  of  the  same  kind,  18  or  19  million  dollars,  at 


3172  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Old  Hickory.  It  was  not  an  advance  to  build  a  plant  ourselves,  like 
the  Allies  did  in  the  photostat  yesterday. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  correct. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  was  a  rotating  fund  which  was  the  Gov- 
ernment's, but  which  we  could  draw  on  until  they  replenished  it, 
until  they  passed  the  vouchers. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Are  you  sure  of  that  ? 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  think  I  can  state  that. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Mr.  Gregg  has  studied  it. 

Mr.  Gregg.  On  the  contract  under  construction  the  Government 
advanced  to  the  du  Pont  Co.  $18,875,000  in  one  sum,  and  that  was 
used  as  a  revolving  fund.  As  we  paid  bills  out  of  that  amount,  the 
Government  representatives  checked  those  bills;  and  if  they  ap- 
proved them,  then  they  paid  us  the  amount  of  those  bills.  In  other 
words,  this  $18,875,000  was  used  as  a  revolving  fund  on  account  of 
construction. 

Senator  Pope.  Was  there  an  additional  fund? 

Mr.  Gregg.  There  was  an  additional  fund. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Equal  in  amount,  was  it  not? 

Mr.  Gregg.  On  operation,  a  little  bit  higher.  As  I  recall  it,  on 
operation. 

Senator  Clark.  This  fund  of  $18,875,000  was  simply  a  construc- 
tion fund? 

Mr.  Gregg.  That  is  correct. 

Senator  Clark.  And  had  nothing  to  do  with  operation? 

Mr.  Gregg.  That  is  correct. 

Senator  Pope.  And  another  fund  for  operation? 

Mr.  Gregg.  For  operation  there  was  an  advance,  as  I  recall  it, 
of  $18,954,000,  which  was  used  in  the  same  way  in  connection  with 
operations. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  addition  to  the  advances  on  Old  Hickory  there  were 
also,  as  this  memorandum  implies,  advances  in  connection  with  the 
construction  of  other  Government  plants? 

Mr.  Gregg.  There  Avere  advances. 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  the  same  basis  as  in  the  Old  Hickory  contract  ? 

Mr.  Gregg.  That  is  correct. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  total  of  which  as  stated  in  this  memorandum  was 
$45,334,000,  instead  of  the  $37,000,000  advanced  on  Old  Hickory? 
Is  that  correct  ? 

Mr.  Gregg.  The  total  advances  to  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  from 
all  contracts  were  $45,334,629.87. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Correct. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  You  understand,  Mr.  Hiss,  this  is  quite  a 
different  proposition  from  the  foreign  governments,  in  which  a  per- 
centage of  the  total  contract  was  deposited,  anywhere  from  25  to 
50  percent. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  last  complete  paragraph  on  page  3  of  this  memo- 
randum says: 

To  another  subsidiary  of  the  du  Pont  Co.,  viz..  the  du  Pont  American  In- 
dustries, Inc.,  the  Government  advanced  $5,400,000,  to  be  used  by  the  du  Pont 
American  Industries,  Inc.,  as  agent  for  tlie  United  States,  in  the  purchase 
of  cotton  linters  for  the  United  States  and  its  Allies. 

Mr.  Gregg.  That  is  correct. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3173 

WAR    INDUSTRIES    BOARD    OBJECTIONS    TO    COMPENSATION    DEMANDED    BY 

DU  PO>;t  CO. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Returning  to  the  negotiations  in  connection  with  the 
Old  Hickory  contract,  the  last  point  tliat  had  been  reached  was  the 
telegram  of  the  Secretary  of  War  on  October  31,  directing  the  du 
Pont  Co.  to  suspend  operations  under  the  order  of  October  25  of 
Major  General  Crozier,  Chief  of  Ordnance. 

On  November  7,  1017,  Mr.  Brookings  of  the  War  Industries  Board 
wrote  to  the  Secretary  of  War,  and  said : 

Wishing  to  get  to  tlie  bottom  of  tlie  pioposed  contract  with  the  tlu  Pont 
Co..  I  motored  with  Admiral  Earl  to  Indian  Head  yesterday  afternoon,  and 
made  a  rather  hurried  but  complete  inspection  of  the  naval  powder  plant 
which  is  located  there.  While  the  plant  is  small,  producing  only  25,000  pounds 
per  day,  they  have  an  appropriation  for  doubling  this  capacity  at  an  expendi- 
ture of  something  like  $2,000,000.  I  am  convinced,  from  statements  made  me 
by  the  superintendent,  IMr.  Patterson,  and  the  officers  in  charge  that  the  plant 
is  producing  as  good  powder  as  is  produced  by  any  plant  in  the  world,  and 
I  herewith  enclose  copy  of  report  made  by  them  October  21 

I  think  the  reference  is  to  a  rejDort  of  October  22,  which  is  also 
offered  in  evidence  at  this  point. 

(The  letter  of  Nov.  7,  1917,  and  report  of  Oct.  22,  1917,  referred 
to  were  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1139  "  and  "  Exhibit  No.  1140  ",  respec- 
tively, and  are  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3264.) 

Mr.  Hiss  (reading)  : 

showing  the  cost  during  the  fiscal  year  1917  to  be  about  31  cents  for  what  is 
known  as  "  direct  shop  cost ",  with  an  overhead  including  boxing,  interest,  out- 
bound freight,  depreciation,  and  so  forth,  of  about  9  cents,  or  a  total  of  40 
cents  per  pound. 

The  base  price  in  the  October  25  agreement  was  441/2  cents,  was  it 
not,  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  441/^  cents. 
Mr.  Hiss  (reading)  : 

Of  this  cost,  the  contract  with  the  du  Ponts  would  entirely  eliminate  the  item 
of  boxes,  depreciation,  outbound  freight  and  barge  expense,  and  interest  which 
you  will  notice  aggregates  about  7  cents  per  pound,  reducing  the  cost  to  33 
cents.  This  is  a  small  scattered  phmt  of  only  one-fortieth  of  the  capacity  of  the 
proposed  new  plant.  With  the  purchasing  power  of  the  Government  and  the 
magnitude  of  the  proposed  plant,  it  is  quite  probable  that  the  cost  as  outlined 
by  the  du  Pont  agreement  will  not  exceed  35  cents  per  pound,  so  that  under 
the  du  Pont  contract,  they  would  make  during  the  first  year  of  operation  a 
profit  of  about  10  cents  per  pound  or  approximately  $30,000,000  in  addition  to 
the  $13,500,000  construction  commission  pi'ovided  for. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Who  is  that  speaking? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Robert  S.  Brookings,  of  the  War  Industries  Board,  re- 
porting to  the  Secretary  of  War,  Mr.  Baker. 

I  herewitli  hand  you  enclosures  just  received  from  Colonel  Pierce  which 
indicate  the  cost  to  the  British  Government  for  contractor's  services  on  a  plant 
probably  similar  to  this  would  average  about  2  percent. 

In  other  words,  $1,800,000. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Are  you  getting  away  from  this  first  exhibit 
you  are  just  reading  from? 

Mr.  Hiss.  No.  We  will  return  to  that  in  just  a  moment.  I  would 
like  to  finish  reading  this  letter. 

This  does  not  seem,  however,  to  cover  the  plans  and  specifications. 


3174  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

That  the  price  demanded  by  the  du  Fonts  for  construction,  service,  and 
operation  is  utterly  out  of  scale  with  any  possible  service  they  can  render  would 
seem  obvious. 

The  cost  report  of  October  22  of  the  Naval  Proving  Ground,  Indian 
Head,  Md.,  addressed  to  the  Bureau  of  Ordnance,  shows  a  total  cost 
of  a  direct  shop  nature  of  31  and  some  fractional  cents,  including  a 
depreciation  item  of  .02  and  a  further  fraction.  The  shop  cost  of 
31  cents  plus  an  overhead  cost  of  seven  cents  and  an  interest  cost  of 
1.8  made  a  total  cost  of  39.9  cents  as  reported  in  this  particular  state- 
ment. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Mr.  Secretary,  may  I  call  attention  to  a  few 
items  on  this  estimate  you  have  just  read  out? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Certainly. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  have  never  seen  this  estimate  before,  so  this 
is  very  superficial  examination. 

I  would  like  to  point  out  some  of  the  prices  on  the  materials  used 
in  this  estimate.  I  think  they  are  probably  based  on  the  stocks  on 
hand  at  Indian  Head  earlier,  in  the  earlier  period  before  the  war. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Just  before  that,  may  I  give  you  another  document  to 
consider  at  the  same  time  so  that  you  will  have  that  before  you  ? 

A  letter  of  October  27,  1934,  from  the  Secretary  of  the  Navy  to 
the  chairman  of  this  committee  listing  the  costs  of  Indian  Head  for 
the  entire  war  period,  namely,  1915-16,  191G-1T,  1917-18,  and 
1918-19,  with  the  statement  of  the  price  paid  for  raw  materials 
throughout  the  period. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1141  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3267.) 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Take  the  item  of  alcohol,  which  I  happen 
to  notice  because  right  at  the  bottom  you  have  down  there  6.45  cents 
a  pound  as  the  price  in  the  estimate  for  the  year  1918.  The  Amer- 
ican Distilling  Co.  price  was  10.9  cents  a  pound,  a  differential  of 
4.4  cents,  whicli  represents  an  error  in  this  thing  of  3l^  cents  on  the 
low  side. 

Mr.  Hiss.  If  3^ou  will  turn  to  the  last  sheet  of  the  Secretary  of 
the  Navy's  chart,  you  will  see  the  costs  stated  for  1915  through  to 
1919,  which  shows  that  new  powder,  total  cost  including  deprecia- 
tion, insurance,  and  interest,  in  1915-16  was  44  cents,  in  1916-17  was 
40  cents,  and  in  1917-18  went  up  to  51  cents.  The  statement  is  as  of 
October  1917. 

Mr.  Ihenei:  du  Pont.  I  do  not  follow  that,  quite ;  51  cents — where 
do  vou  see  that  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  1917-18.    Do  you  see  that? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  1917-18,  51  cents;  yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  1918-19  was  the  other  one. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Does  this  represent  the  actual  cost? 

Mr.  Hiss.  So  w^e  are  informed. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Have  you  the  prices  for  raw  materials 
charged  in? 

Mr.  Hiss.  They  are  shown  on  the  first  three  pages,  with  the  state- 
ment of  the  supplies  of  the  raw  materials.  You  will  notice  that 
diphenylamine  in  1917  was  purcliased  from  your  company  at  $0.60. 
In  other  words,  60  cents  a  pound. 

Mr.  Irenp:e  du  Pont.  Diphenylamine,  they  used  an  insignificant 
amount  of  that.     The  big  items  are  alcohol,  nitrate  of  soda,  and 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3175 

cotton.  The  alcohol  prices,  as  I  recall  at  this  time,  had  gone  up 
to  12  cents,  notwithstanding  that  apparently  they  bought  early 
enough  in  1918  to  get  it  for  only  about  11  cents,  here.  But  in  this 
estimate  that  is  given  as  the  31-cent  estimate,  it  is  down  for  6.45 
cents.  It  manifestly  is  not  applicable.  You  could  not  buy  alcohol 
for  these  plants  at  that  price.  We  were  quoting  on  the  then  market. 
We  could  not  buy  alcohol  like  they  bought  the  year  before. 

Similarly,  nitrate  of  soda,  we  have  down  2.1  cents.  See  what 
they  have  for  the  price  of  nitrate  of  soda  here — never  having  seen 
this  document  before.  They  have  in  1918  2.6  cents,  and  I  do  not 
think  the}'  bought  very  much  at  that  price,  because  j^ou  can  find  out 
what  we  actuall}'  paid  for  it. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Will  you  also  notice  on  page  2  the  price  paid  for  cotton 
linters  in  1917  at  14  cents  a  pound,  which  was  very  high,  was  it 
not?  Did  your  company  pay  anything  like  that  for  cotton  linters 
in  1917?  ^ 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know.  I  imagine  those  are  purified 
cotton  linters,  which  we  did  not  buy  except  in  a  smali  way. 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  produced  those? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  We  produced  those.  That  is  what  those 
large  buildings  along  the  horizon  are  [indicating  on  panoramic 
picture]. 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  November  14 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  beg  your  pardon.  Could  I  just  look  at 
those  cotton  linters?  They  say  they  paid  14  cents  for  them  in  1917, 
and  the  cotton  linters  down  here  are  10  cents. 

Mr.  Hiss.  One  is  a  complete  1917  report  and  the  other  is  as  of 
October.  You  will  notice  the  total  1917  cost  is  higher  than  the 
October  one. 

On  November  14,  1917,  Mr.  Brookings  wrote  a  further  letter  to 
the  Secretary  of  War. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  1142",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3269.) 

Mr.  Hiss  [reading]  : 

You  have  doubtless  heard  that  the  War  Industries  Board,  by  invitation  of 
General  Crozier,  had  a  long  conference  today  with  General  Crozier,  Colonel 
Hoffer,  and  Mr.  McRoberts,  representing  the  Ordnance  Department,  and  Colonel 
Butler 

Which  probably  means  Colonel  Buckner — 
and  Mr.  du  Pont  representing  the  du  Pont  Co. 

That  was  you,  Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  am  not  sure  whether  I  was  there  or  Irenee 
du  Pont. 

Mr.  Hiss  (reading)  : 

I  wish  to  say  to  you  confidentially  that  v^iiile  our  protest  has  produfed  chanf^es 
m  the  contract  which  will  probably  save  the  Government  $5,000,000  or  $6,000,000 
and  has  modified  one  or  two  other  conditions  of  the  contract  in  the  Govern- 
ment's interest,  it  still  remains  in  shape  where  tliose  who  expressed  them- 
selves—Judge Lovett.  Mr.  Barueh.  and  myself— declined  to  approve  it.  While 
upon  the  one  hand  Colonel  Hoffer  devoted  himself  to  criticizing  the  Indian 
Head  cost  submitted  to  you  as  compared  with  the  cost  of  severalkinds  of  ma- 
terials today,  upon  the  other  hand  the  du  Pont  people  franklv  admitted  that 
they  expected  to  make  10  cents  per  pound  under  the  contract.  In  other  words, 
that  they  expected  to  produce  the  powder  at  10  cents  less  than  the  fixed  price 
mentioned  in  the  contract.  Practically  the  only  changes  offered  were  to  rebate 
6^  cents 


3176  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

six  and  one-half  percent  it  probably  meant — 

of  the  15  percent  charged  on  construction  out  of  the  profits  they  would  make  on 
operation,  to  be  paid,  however,  in  installments  whicli  would  require  16  to  18 
months'  operation  of  the  plant  in  order  to  secure  it.  The  other  change,  as  I 
remember  it,  reduced  their  compensation  from  5  cents  to  3i^  cents  per  pound 
under  certain  conditions  where  the  powder  cost  more  to  produce  than  the  price 
named  in  the  contract. 

My  only  purpose  in  sending  you  this  communication  is  to  emphasize  the 
conviction  which  I  think  we  all  have  in  the  War  Industries  Board  that,  when 
a  large  sum  of  money  like  this  is  to  be  expended,  unless  we  participate  in  the 
first  stages  of  the  conference  and  are  able  to  mold  it  along  lines  which  we  feel 
to  be  fair  and  equitable,  it  is  almost  impossible  to  do  anything  with  it.  General 
Crozier,  Colonel  Hoffer,  and  Mr.  McRoberts  had  recommended  in  the  most 
unqualified  way  this  original  contract,  and,  in  our  interviews  with  General 
Crozier  and  Colonel  Hoffer  no  amount  of  arguments  made  any  impression, 
on  them,  as  they  still  insisted  that  the  contract  was  not  only  a  reasonable  one 
but  one  which  evidenced  the  greatest  generosity  on  the  part  of  the  du  Fonts. 
You  can  readily  see  how  diflBcult  it  is  to  get  men  who  have  so  conclusively 
passed  upon  a  proposition  to  admit  that  they  have  made  a  mistake.  I  may  be 
wrong,  but  1  have  the  feeling  that  if  we  had  participated  in  this  negotiation 
from  the  beginning  we  could  just  about  have  reduced  it  one-half,  that  is,  7^^ 
percent  on  construction  and  probably  2^2  cents  per  pound  for  operation.  Even 
this  would  have  given  them  an  absolutely  secured  profit  of  7%  million  dollars 
per  year  for  nothing  on  earth  but  directing  the  policy  of  the  company  from 
their  main  office,  as  of  course  everything  else  was  chargeable  to  the  cost  of 
powder  and  the  Government  furnished  absolutely  all  the  capital,  and,  by  the 
terms  of  the  contract,  assumed  risk  of  every  kind  and  character. 

On  leaving  the  conference.  General  Crozier  announced  that  he  felt  that, 
regardless  of  price,  the  Government  must  have  immediate  action  on  this,  and 
immediate  action  could  only  be  had  through  the  du  Fonts,  and  therefore  he 
would  urge  upon  you  the  emergency  necessity  which,  in  his  judgment,  ovex*- 
shadowed  all  question  of  cost. 

It  was  suggested  to  the  du  Fonts  that  they  go  ahead  and  construct  this  plant 
and  operate  it  after  construction,  charging  all  cost  of  every  kind  and  character 
to  the  Government,  and,  after  they  had  demonstrated  the  great  service  rendered 
the  Government,  to  leave  to  the  Secretary  of  War  the  question  of  their  com- 
pensation, assuring  them  that  the  Secretary  of  War  could  not  do  other  than 
treat  them  fairly — in  fact  liberally — if  he  assumed  the  responsibility  of  paying 
them  a  fair  price  for  their  service.  They  may  consider  this,  although  I  do  not 
think  it  was  received  very  favorably. 

It  seemed  to  me  that  you  should  have  from  the  War  Industries  Board  as 
quickly  as  possible  our  interpretation  of  this  interview. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Mr.  Chairman,  I  would  like  to  say  in  regard 
to  that  matter.  That  may  have  been  the  writer's  opinion — it  was  not 
our  opinion — that  it  was  a  hand-out  of  $7,000,000  for  nothing. 

The  Chairman.  Who  was  the  writer? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Robert  S.  Brookings,  of  the  War  Industries  Board. 

Mr.  Pierre  du*Pont.  The  representation  there  is  that  it  was  mere 
pen  work  at  Wilmington,  signing  of  vouchers,  checks,  or  whatnot 
and  that  there  was  nothing  else  done  by  the  du  Pont  Co. 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  a  contract  was  entered  into  to  build  a  plant 
at  Nitro,  W.  Va.,  with  other  contractors,  reputable  men,  I  guess  the 
best  men  in  the  country.  They  did  not  have  our  knowledge.  They 
came  to  us  for  their  technical  knowledge,  which  was  furnished  free. 
They  had  our  drawings  and  all  the  knowledge  we  could  put  into  their 
heads  by  telling  them.  They  started  to  make  a  plant  and  they  built 
it,  and  the  record  here  shows  that  had  we  in  the  cost  of  Old  Hickory 
expended  as  much  money  proportionately  as  they  did,  it  would  have 
cost  about  $20,000,000  more. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Could  we  just  stick  to  Old  Hickory  for  the  time  being? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3177 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  it  is  very  pertinent  here  to  bring 
in  this  letter  which  will  go  in  the  record  as  the  opinion  of  a  man, 
and  probably  not  worth  anything;  he  made  a  bad  guess,  in  other 
words.  They  hired  somebody  else  to  do  the  work  who  did  not  have 
the  knowledge,  and  the  consequence  was  they  paid  more  than  if  they 
had  taken  us  up  on  the  original  proposition.  That  is  the  record 
and  the  story.  It  is  better  to  put  that  in  now  than  at  the  last,  when 
we  have  forgotten  about  this  first  business. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  have  not  quite  forgotten  that  Brookings 
incident.    I  would  like  to  quote  Mr.  Brookings. 

I  think  I  was  the  Mr.  du  Pont  there  at  that  time,  because  I  had 
an  interview  with  Mr.  Brookings.  I  could  not  say  if  this  is  the  one. 
But  at  that  interview  he  told  me  he  would  rather  pay  a  dollar  a 
pound  for  powder  for  the  United  States  in  a  state  of  war  if  there 
was  no  profit  in  it  rather  than  pay  the  du  Pont  Co.  50  cents  a 
pound  for  powder  if  they  had  10  cents  profit  in  it.  That  is  what 
he  told  me.  I  think  that  is  where  the  10  cents  came  from ;  I  do  not 
suppose  I  denied  it.  I  plainly  recall  that  I  pnt  down  Mr.  Brook- 
ings as  a  woodenware  manufacturer  in  St.  Louis  or  somewhere.  He 
evidently  did  not  appreciate  that  we  might  have  war  on  the  east 
coast  of  the  United  States.  I  was  fearful  of  war.  Apparently 
he  thought  that  he  was  far  enough  inland  so  that  it  did  not  matter 
much. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Do  you  recall  the  suggestion  that  was  made 
at  that  conference  that  you  do  this  on  a  cost  basis  and  leave  your 
own  compensation  to  the  Secretary  subsequently? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  No;  Mr.  Senator. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Do  you  recall  such  a  suggestion? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  could  not  say  that  I  do  recall  it  exactly 
that  way,  but  the  idea  of  leaving  things  to  be  decided  later  is  not 
sufficiently  businesslike,  and  I  think  you  will  recognize  that,  even  in 
this  case.  Consider  the  next  war — that  there  is  somebody  who  must 
do  something  for  the  Government.  Will  he  not  be  extremely  un- 
likely to  do  it  in  view  of  our  sad  experience  with  Old  Hickory? 

We  took  8  months  to  build  the  plant.  There  is  a  rough  picture 
of  a  little  jDart  of  it.  The  vouchers  were  audited  by  Government 
officials  and  it  took  them  8  years,  auditing  and  reauditing  and  re- 
auditing.  I  do  not  know  how  many  investigations  we  have  had,  but 
this  is  simply  another.  This  is  all  expense  to  the  company.  We  are 
held  up  to  ridicule  or  worse,  that  we  are  trying  to  rob  the  United 
States,  when  we  did  one  of  the  most  magnificent  jobs  done  in  the 
war  there;  perfectly  astonishing  that  a  thing  like  that  could  have 
been  built  so  quickly  and  have  gone  into  production  ahead  of  time 
in  every  unit,  when  the  time  set  for  that  production  was  so  extremely 
short. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Do  you  believe  that  there  was  any  other  company  in  the 
country  that  could  have  done  it  with  the  same  speed  at  that  time? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know  of  any  that  there  were.  I 
cannot  conceive  that  there  could  have  been. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Did  any  of  the  Government  officials  at  any  time  during 
that  period  indicate  to  you  that  they  thought  anyone  else  could 
do  it  as  well  as  you  could  do  it  ? 


3178  MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Unless  you  would  say  that  by  Mr.  Baker 
taking  it  out  of  our  hands  and  putting  the  Charleston  plant  in 
other  hands  certainly  indicated  he  thought  so. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  mean  the  Old  Hickory  proposition  itself. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  This  first  proposition  you  have  been  talking 
about  was  the  Charleston  plant.  When  Mr.  Jackling  came,  he  tried 
to  take  our  chief  engineer  away  from  the  du  Pont  Co.,  upsetting  their 
work,  and  the  chief  engineer  said,  "  I  cannot  do  anything.  I  cannot 
help  you.  This  is  the  organization  that  does  the  thing.  You  will 
have  to  take  the  organization." 

Mr.  Hiss.  My  impression  of  the  October  25  contract  is  that  it  re- 
ferred to  a  site  or  sites  to  be  determined,  and  there  was  consideration 
of  the  possibility  of  two  sites  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Charleston  was  the  first  selection  for  a 
location. 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  at  the  same  time  producing  a  combined  total  of  a 
million  pounds  per  day.  It  was  later  decided  to  have  a  million 
pounds  per  day  at  Nashville  and  an  additional  plant  at  Charleston. 
Is  that  not  correct? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Oh,  no;  I  think  that  is  wrong.  The  addi- 
tional plant  comes  first.  Charleston  was  started  in  January,  two 
months  before  Old  Hickory.  The  Charleston  plant  did  not  get  into 
operation  as  fast  as  the  one  at  Old  Hickory,  although  Old  Hickory 
had  the  disadvantage  of  having  to  build  a  railroad  to  it,  whereas 
Charleston  had  the  railroad  already  there. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Was  that  not  also  because  your  contract  with  the  Gov- 
ernment could  not  be  determined  earlier,  since  the  point  of  compen- 
sation was  not  agreed  upon? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  They  agreed  with  the  contractor  for  the 
Charleston  plant  before  they  agreed  with  us.  That  contract  is  dated, 
I  think,  2  months  earlier;  at  least,  they  started  work  2  months 
earlier. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Two  months  earlier  than  January  or  2  months  earlier 
than  October,  the  first  order? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  The  Charleston  plant  started  work  in  the 
early  part  of  January  1918,  I  believe. 

Mr.  Hiss.  But  not  until  after  the  October  order  had  been  issued 
by  General  Crozier,  which  would  have  given  you  the  Charleston 
project? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss,  As  well  as  whatever  project  may  have  been  contemplated 
at  Nashville  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Presumably  would  be,  although  the  October 
contract  originally  was  planned  that  we  would  take  all  or  part. 

To  refer  back  just  a  moment  to  this  question  of  savings,  if  the 
Government  had  contracted  Old  Hickory  to  the  same  contractors  as 
built  Nitro 

Mr.  Hiss.  Who  were  the  contractors  xdio  built  Nitro,  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr,  Gregg.  The  Government  made  a  contract  with  Thompson 
Starret  Co.  to  construct  a  plant.     Mr.  Jackling  was  in  charge. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Was  Mr.  Coleman  du  Pont  a  director  of  the  Thompson 
Starret  Co.  ? 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  could  not  tell  you  that.     I  do  not  know. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3179 

Mr.  PiEERE  Du  Pont.  But  taking  the  cost  of  Nitro,  if  they  had 
built  the  Old  Hickory  plant  at  the  same  cost  per  pound  of  output, 
it  would  have  cost  $19,000,000  more  than  it  did  to  us.  That  is  the 
difference.  It  was  more  than  any  contemplated  proht  on  construc- 
tion, surely.     That  is  the  construction  contract  only. 

CONTINUANCE  OF  NEGOTIATIONS  ON  PAKT  OF  ORDNANCE  DEPARTMENT 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  November  15,  although  the  War  Industries  Board 
had  recommended  against  the  contract,  the  Chief  of  Ordnance,  Gen- 
eral C'rozier,  notified  your  company,  according  to  this  memorandum 
of  November  17,  1917,  which  I  offer  as  an  exhibit,  reading  as  fol- 
lows : 

I  consider  it  necessary  to  the  interests  of  the  Government  for  your  company 
to  acquire  title  to  the  land  that  you  have  under  option  for  a  smokeless-powder 
plant. 

It  is  understood  that  your  company  is  willing  to  purchase  the  land  and  to 
either  sell  it  to  the  Government  or  dispose  of  it  to  any  individuals  that  the 
War  Department  may  name  at  the  actual  cost  to  your  company  plus  interest 
at  4  percent. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1143  " 
and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3270.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  other  words,  the  War  Department  thought  that  not- 
withstanding the  criticisms  of  the  War  Industries  Board,  the  con- 
tract must  go  ahead,  and  authorized  you  to  take  steps  in  that  direc- 
tion.    Is  that  correct,  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  This  is  November  17,  after  the  whole  deal 
was  off. 

Mr.  Hiss.  After  the  whole  deal  w^as  off  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  War  Department  still  urged  you  to  go  ahead  op- 
tioning sites  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  For  them.  The  understanding  was  they 
were  going  to  take  the  property,  and  if  they  did  not  want  it  they 
would  pay  us  for  it,  plus  4  percent. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Not  plus  4  percent ;  plus  interest  at  4  percent. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  your  opinion  at  that  time,  there  was  to  be  no  further 
plan  of  the  du  Pont  Co.  constructing  its  plant?  You  thought  the 
entire  deal  was  off? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Apparently  it  was ;  yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  May  I  show  you  a  draft  of  a  contract  dated  November 
19,  1919?  This  copy  comes  from  the  War  Department  files,  but  I 
have  seen  a  similar  copy  in  the  files  of  your  own  company. 

JVIr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  There  are  nr.merous  negotiations  on  the 
thing. 

Mr.  Hiss.  It  indicates  that  the  negotiations  were  continuing 
throughout  this  time. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  We  did  not  let  go  of  a  thing. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  am  sorry  I  misunderstood  your  statement. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  We  had  been  notified  that  the  deal  was  off. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Returning  to  the  November  17  document,  my  question 
was  that  although  the  Secretary  of  War  had  ordered  you  to  suspend 
operations  and  the  War  Industries  Board  had  expressed  its  disap- 

83876— 35— PT  14 2 


3180  MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 

proval  of  the  contract,  the  War  Department  still  directed  you  to  con- 
tinue with  optioning  the  property? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  seems  to  be  true ;  yes. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Does  it  say  "  optioning  "  ?  Acquire  title  to 
the  land. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Which  is  even  more  than  an  option. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  does  not  mean  we  agreed  to  have  an 
interest  in  the  thing  at  all. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Not  even  taken  in  connection  with  the  fact  that  new 
contracts  were  being  made  up  in  consultation  between  the  War  De- 
partment and  your  company? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  We  kept  the  thing  going,  but  as  to  what  the 
outcome  would  be  was  a  mere  guess.  This  would  have  worked  equally 
well  if  we  had  been  kept  in  the  game  or  left  out. 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  November  21  General  Crozier  wired  you,  Mr.  Pierre 
du  Pont,  as  follows  [reading]  : 

Colonel  Euckner  advises  me  that  options  are  beginning  to  expire  on  tlie 
machinery  for  the  proposed  plant  of  1,000,000  pounds  of  smokeless  powder  per 
day.  The  Department  desires  and  authorizes  you,  if  the  prices  are  reasonable, 
to  close  all  option;?  where  action  is  considered  by  your  company  necessary  to 
protect  the  Government  in  the  procurement  of  this  machinery.  You  may  close 
these  options  in  the  name  of  the  Ordnance  Department. 

(The  telegram  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1144  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3271.) 

Senator  Vandenberg.  What  was  the  relative  authority  of  the  War 
Industries  Board  and  the  War  Department  in  respect  to  these  things, 
Mr.  Hiss? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Colonel  Harris? 

TESTIMONY  OF  IT.  COL.  C.  T.  HARRIS  AND  IT.  E.  M.  BRANNON— 

Recalled 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  The  War  Industries  Board  had  no 
real  authority  to  control  the  letting  of  contracts.  The  authority 
rested  with  the  War  Department. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  War  Industries  Board  were  advisers  to  the  Secre- 
tary of  War  and  to  the  President  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  To  the  President  and  also  the  Secre- 
tary of  War. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  And  the  War  Industries  Board  had  no  con- 
clusive authority  of  its  own  in  any  aspect  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  In  connection  with  letting  of  contracts, 
no,  sir. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Did  they  have  any  authority  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  They  had  the  authority  of  the  Presi- 
dent's letter  to  them  of  March  4  in  connection  with  raw  materials, 
checking  prices,  and  so  forth,  but  they  had  no  authority  in  connection 
with  letting  of  a  contract  of  this  character. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  They  had  a  price-fixing  authority? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Yes,  sir. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  All  right. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Before  leaving  that  51-cent  cost,  I  think  it 
ought  to  be  proper  to  insert  Avith  this  record  what  the  actual  cost  was 
at  Old  Hickory.    Bear  in  mind  it  was  a  new  plant  just  going  into 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY  3181 

operation,  with  all  the  wastefulness  of  getting  under  way  and  break- 
ing in  new  crews.  I  think  yoii  will  find  that  that  is  materially  under 
the  51-cent  price  estimated  for  Indian  Head,  notwithstanding  their 
low  price  of  raw  material. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Mr.  Chairman,  may  I  amend  my 
statement?  These  dates  have  to  do  with  the  authority  of  the  War 
Industries  Board.  At  this  time  the  War  Industries  Board  was  a 
creation  of  the  Council  of  National  Defense,  and  had  no  executive 
authority  of  anv  kind.  After  ISlarch  4,  1918,  they  did  have  authority 
by  virtue  of  the  President's  letter  to  them.  At  this  time  they  did 
not  have  any  executive  authority. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Purely  advisory  at  this  point? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  It  was  a  creation  of  the  Council  of 
National  Defense,  which  did  not  have  any  authority. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Purely  advisory  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  might  state  that  at  the  Old  Hickory  powder  plant 
35,538,345  pounds  of  powder  were  manufactured  at  a  cost  per  pound 
44.09841,  or  about  44.1  cents  per  pound. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Gregg,  how  much  of  that  was  completed  after  the 
armistice  ? 

Mr.  Gregg.  It  is  my  recollection  that  at  the  time  of  the  signing 
of  the  armistice  approximately  25,000,000  pounds  of  powder  had 
been  delivered  and  accepted  by  the  Government.  The  rest  had  been 
manufactured,  but  it  had  not  yet  reached  the  point  of  acceptance  by 
the  Government.  In  other  words,  there  was  about  10,000,000  that 
held  over  and  was  accepted  later  on. 

Mr.  Hiss.  But  that  had  been  completely  manufactured  by  that 
time,  Mr.  Gregg? 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  might  explain  that. 

Mr.  Hiss.  How  much  was  in  process  ? 

Mr.  Gregg.  In  process  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Yes;  on  November  11? 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  could  not  tell  you  how  much  was  in  process  on 
November  11,  but  the  situation  was  this:  Material  that  had  already 
been  started  through  in  the  manufacture  of  powder,  if  you  stopped 
in  the  midst  of  that  the  raw  materials  used  in  the  manufacture  of 
powder  would  be  practically  worthless.  Therefore,  it  was  necessary 
to  go  through  with  what  was  in  process  and  complete  it.  That  was 
the  situation  at  Old  Hickory.  We  went  on  through  with  what 
was  in  process  at  the  time  of  the  signing  of  the  armistice  and 
completed  that  powder. 

Mr.  Hiss.  May  I  interrupt  you?  I  think  this  statement  which  I 
had  intended  to  refer  to  later  states  how  much  was  completed  at 
the  time  of  the  armistice. 

November  19,  1918,  statement  of  guncotton  nitrated,  cannon  pow- 
der manufactured,  and  cannon  powder  packed. 

(The  tabulation  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibited  No.  1145  ", 
and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3271.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  will  notice  that  on  that  date  16,000,000  pounds,  by 
November  19,  had  been  finished;  32,000,000  had  been  nitrated; 
26,000,000  had  passed  through  the  first  stage.  So  that  after  that 
time,  according  to  your  figures,  at  least  3,000,000  more  pounds  were 


3182  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

nitrated  and  those  3,000,000  plus  an  additional  31/2  million  or  so  were 
put  through  the  first  stage. 

Mr.  Gregg.  That  is  only  for  the  month. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Those  are  the  totals  of  this  year  that  I  was  reading. 

Mr.  Gregg.  Total  to  date. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  what  I  was  reading,  total  to  date. 

Mr.  Gregg.  The  total  this  year;  that  is  guncotton  alone. 

Mr.  Hiss.  So  I  stated,  Mr.  Gregg.  You  misunderstood  me.  But 
since  your  figures  showed  35,000,000  altogether  of  poAvder,  there  must 
have  been  another  3,000,000  pounds  of  guncotton  nitrated  after  this 
date,  since  it  was  testified  yesterday  that  guncotton  is  used  about 
pound  for  pound  in  finished  powder. 

Mr.  Gregg.  Some  of  the  operating  men  would  have  to  testify  to 
that. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Mr.  Bradway  I  think  could  answer  that. 
He  is  the  technical  man  on  that. 

Mr.  Hiss.  After  November  11,  1918,  did  powder-manufacturing 
costs  increase  or  decrease? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  After  what  date  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  November  11,  1918,  at  Old  Hickory,  did  labor  rates  go 
up  or  down  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  We  shut  down  right  off.  They  stopped 
nitrating  immediately  on  the  armistice. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Three  million  more  pounds  were  nitrated  after  that. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Three  million  more  pounds  represent  about 
5  days'  operation.  If  the  cotton  is  already  starting  through  the 
nitrating  plant,  Mr.  Bradway  can  tell  you  more  about  it,  because  he 
knows  more  of  those  details,  and  I  have  only  observed  them. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Bradway. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Bradway,  just  one  question.  The  question  is. 
How  many  pounds  of  gunpowder  are  required  for  the  production  of 
1  pound  of  smokeless  powder  ? 

Mr.  Bradway.  Approximately  one. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  all,  thank  you. 

Mr.  Bradway.  That  is  smokeless  cannon  powder. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  right. 

Mr.  Bradway.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  du  Pont,  the  question  I  asked  just  before  Mr.  Brad- 
way testified  was :  Did  labor  costs  and  manufacturing  costs  of  this 
powder  in  process  increase  or  decrease  after  November  11,  1918,  in 
your  opinion?  If  they  decreased,  the  cost  figures  that  Mr.  Gregg 
has  read  may  not  be  completely  comparable  with  cost  figures  prior 
to  November  11.  1918,  isn't  that  correct? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pokt.  That  is  possible. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Have  you  the  costs  in  October  1918,  for  example? 

Mr.  Gregg.  We  clo  not  have  it  by  months,  Mr.  Hiss. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  you  will  find,  Mr.  Hiss,  that  this 
32,300,000  pounds  of  guncotton  produced  at  Old  Hickory  was  even- 
tually transposed  into  finished  gunpowder  or  finished  powder  of 
some  kind. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  correct.  Mr.  Gregg  has  already  testified  to  this, 
that  35,000,000  pounds  were  completed.  Therefore,  3,000,000  more 
had  to  be  nitrated  after  that  date,  according  to  Mr.  Bradway's. 
testimony. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3183 

1  call  your  attention  to  the  letter  of  November  23,  1917,  to  Mr. 
Baker  from  Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1146  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3272.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  am  quoting  from  the  last  sentence  of  the  second  para- 
graph on  the  first  page  [reading]  : 

During  the  course  of  the  formulation  of  the  project  there  was  full  discussion 
concernintf  compensatiou  to  our  company  and  later  full  explanation  of  our 
position  in  that  respect.  It  was  our  understanding  that  the  percentage  charges 
and  form  of  plans  were  acceptable  to  you,  though  we  had  no  definite  assurances 
to  that  effect  either  from  you  or  through  General  Crozier  or  Colonel  Hoffer. 

Immediately  on  receipt  of  order  we  started  to  put  into  eifect  plans  which 
had  been  rapidly  developed  during  the  course  of  negotiations. 

On  page  3  of  the  letter,  the  third  full  paragraph,  second  sentence: 

We  have  agreed  to  construct  the  10  proposed  units  of  the  factory,  or  any 
substantial  part  thereof,  or  to  donate  our  plans  of  existing  plants  to  the  Govern- 
ment should  you  desire  the  work  done  by  others  than  ourselves.  We  have 
agreed  to  do  construction  work  without  profit,  provided  that  the  plants  are 
operated  by  us  for  a  sufficient  length  of  time  to  give  our  company  reasonable 
compensation  for  our  services. 

You  regarded  the  total  compensation  as  compensation  for  the  entire 
job  of  construction  and  operation,  didn't  you,  Mr.  du  Pont? 
Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  It  seems  so;  yes. 
Mr.  Hiss  (continuing  reading)  : 

We  have  refused  two  conditions  only :  First,  to  work  without  proper  compen- 
sation ;  second,  to  divide  with  other  contractors  the  work  at  any  one  site.  The 
first  refusal  is  necessary,  because  the  directors  of  our  company,  acting  for  our 
stockholders,  have  no  authority  to  do  otherwise.  The  second,  because  the  work 
cannot  be  accomplished  promptly  and  properly  under  divided  responsibility  at 
any  on,e  point. 

The  next  page,  the  last  complete  sentence  [reading]  : 

There  is  no  doubt  that  we  have  made  large  profits,  but  their  making  has 
enabled  us  to  complete  work  that  has  not  been  duplicated  elsewhere.  It  has 
also  placed  us  in  a  position  to  name  prices  for  powder  to  the  United  States 
Government  below  those  in  force  before  the  war,  without  any  amortization 
charge  whatever  to  cover  use  of  factories  which  will  shortly  be  permanently 
dismantled. 

Yesterday  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont  testified  that  had  it  not  been  for 
sales  to  European  customers  at  prices  permitting  amortization,  the 
company  would  have  been  forced  to  make  amortization  charges  in  its 
sales  to  the  United  States, 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  If  we  built  the  plant  for  it ;  j^es. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Consequently,  it  was  merely  a  fortuitous  circumstance 
that  the  United  States  did  not  have  to  pay  amortization  charges  in 
its  contracts  with  you,  is  that  correct  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  don't  know  what  the  definition  of  "  for- 
tuitous "  is. 

Mr.  Hiss.  It  was  not  a  matter  of  patriotism  but  of  happenstance. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  We  manifestly  could  not  give  the  cost  of  the 
powder  plant  to  the  United  States  Government.  We  would  be  great 
trustees  for  the  stockholders  if  we  did,  if  that  is  what  you  mean. 

Mr.  Hiss.  May  I  call  your  attention  to  an  extract  from  the  minutes 
of  an  executive  committee  meeting  held  on  January  18,  1918,  which  I 
will  offer  as  exhibit  for  the  record. 

(The  extract  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  1147"  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3274.) 


3184  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Hiss.  This  is  just  before  the  Old  Hickory  contract  was  signed 
[reading]  : 

Resolved  that  the  development  department  be  authorized  to  pay  $3,250,000  for 
the  properties  of  the  Federal  DyestufEs  &  Chemical  Corporation  as  outlined  in 
their  report  of  January  17,  1918,  provided  we  are  able  to  close  a  contract  with 
suitable  advance-payment  clause  with  the  United  States  Government  or  others 
for  the  sale  of  picric  acid  at  a  price  and  in  an  amount  sufficient  to  net  us  a 
fair  profit  after  amortizing  the  entire  cost  of  this  investment,  including  the 
cost  of  necessary  construction  work  to  manufacture  picric  acid  including  sul- 
phuric-acid plant. 

Do  you  use  picric  acid  in  the  manufacture  of  dyestuff  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  believe  we  did.  I  think  there  is  a  little 
explanation  there.  These  people  represented  they  had  orders  from 
the  Government  and  wanted  to  sell  out  their  properties.  We  had 
no  interest  in  the  orders  for  picric  acid.  Our  interest  was  in  the 
dyestuff  business. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Do  you  not  use  picric  acid  in  the  manufacture  of  dye- 
stuff? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Yes ;  but  not  in  this  quantity.  Nothing  ever 
happened  to  this  at  all.  They  were  one  of  the  war  brides  at  the  time. 
They  claimed  they  had  these  orders  for  picric  acid,  and  I  think  they 
had  been  in  the  sulphur-black  business,  or  some  other  dye.  They  had 
some  war  orders  and  wanted  to  cash  in  on  them,  so  we  put  up  a  prop- 
osition which  enabled  them  to  do  that,  if  they  would,  and  they  came 
across.    That  is  all  that  happened. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  The  property  was  not  acquired. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  was  not  acquired ;  no. 

offer  of  secretary  of  war  baker  to  pay  $1,000,000  and  to  arbitrate 

AS  to  balance 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  November  26,  1917,  the  chairman  of  the  War  In- 
dustries Board,  who  was  then  Daniel  Willard,  wrote  a  letter  to  the 
Secretary  of  War,  which  I  will  offer  as  an  exhibit. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1148  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3274.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  This  says: 

Inasmuch,  however,  as  we  have  so  far  been  unable  to  agree  with  the  du 
Pont  as  to  what  would  be  fair  compensation  for  the  erection  and  operation  of 
the  plant,  we  recommend  that  you  invite  the  responsible  heads  of  the  du  Pont 
Co.  to  meet  you  at  your  office. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  What  is  the  date,  please  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  November  26,  1917. 

This  follows  a  statement  in  the  preceding  paragraph  that — 

It  is  our  opinion  that  the  du  Pont  people  are  in  every  way  the  best  fitted  for 
securing  this  result — 

Namely,  the  construction  in  the  least  possible  time  and  the  operation 
at  the  greatest  efficiency. 

Continuing  with  what  I  started  to  read  before — 

and  that  you  say  to  them  that  the  emergency  nature  of  the  Government  needs 
is  such  that  you  must  insist  upon  their  taking  hold  of  the  project  without  fur- 
ther delay,  and,  as  the  Government's  agent,  proceed  to  construct,  organize,  and 
opei-ate  the  plants,  aggregating  approximately  1,000,000  pounds  capacity  per 
day  in  the  shortest  time  possible,  the  Government  to  pay  every  dollar  of  expense 
connected  therewith  as  the  work  progresses ;  that  inasmuch  as  we  have  not 
agreed  as  to  what  would  be  fair  compensation  for  their  services  both  in  the 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTKY  3185 

erection  and  operation  of  the  plant,  and  inasmuch  as  they  must,  of  course,  be 
willing  to  accept  fair  compensation  for  their  services  and  the  Government  being 
perfectly  willing  to  pay  fair  compensation — 

Now,  therei'oro,  the  Government  proposes  to  pay  them  $1,000,000  in  advance 
on  account  of  the  net  profit  or  compensation  to  them  over  and  above  all  cost 
of  construction  and  operation  and  that  pending  the  completion  of  the  contract, 
i.  e.,  18  months  after  the  first  unit  is  ready  for  operation,  the  Government, 
through  the  Secretary  of  War,  will  endeavor  to  negotiate  with  them  from  time 
to  time  as  to  what,  if  any.  additional  compensation  they  should  fairly  receive 
for  their  services,  and  on  the  completion  of  the  contract  if  the  du  Pont  Co.  and 
the  Secretary  of  War  have  not  been  able  to  agtee  upon  such  sum,  then  the 
matter  shall  he  left  to  the  usual  form  of  arbitration — that  is,  each  party  to 
select  one  arbitrator  and  the  two  so  selected  to  agree  upon  a  third,  the  findings 
of  the  two  of  these  three  to  be  binding  upon  both  interested  parties. 

Mr,  du  Pont,  is  it  not  unusual  in  your  experience  to  have  a  Gov- 
ernment official  offer  to  arbitrate  a  point  which  it  is  his  duty  as  a 
Government  official  to  exercise  discretion  on  ? 

Mr,  Pierre  du  Pont,  I  never  had  any  experience  in  that  line. 

Mr,  Irenee  du  Pont,  Mr,  Secretary,  that  letter  is  perfectly  easily 
explained.  You  know  Daniel  Willard  is  as  honest  and  straightfor- 
ward as  he  could  be.  If  he  made  a  proposition  to  me  to  do  a  job  for 
him,  on  a  basis  of  that  kind,  I  could  trust  him  and  it  would  be  all 
right.  But  the  Government  cannot  do  that  sort  of  thing.  They 
haven't  got  the  power  to  do  it.  They  would  just  pass  the  buck  and 
never  get  anywhere  on  it, 

Mr,  Hiss,  Did  your  company  accept  that  offer? 

Mr,  Pierre  du  Pont.  It  did  not. 

Mr,  Hiss,  On  November  28,  1917,  Mr,  du  Pont  wrote  a  letter  to 
the  board  of  directors  of  the  company,  which  I  will  offer  for  appro- 
priate exhibit  number, 

(The  document  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1149  ",  and 
is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p,  3275.) 

Mr,  Hiss,  This  letter  refers  to  a  conference  the  day  before  with 
the  Secretary  of  War  [reading]  : 

The  Secretary  informed  me  that  a  meeting  had  been  held  the  day  before,  at 
which  were  present  the  War  Industries  Board,  General  Crozier  and  himself. 
He  and  General  Crozier  bad  presented  opposite  opinions.  The  Secretary  being 
in  favor  of  giving  the  work  to  other  contractors  and  architects,  such  as  Mr. 
Graham — 

Is  he  of  the  Thompson  Starrett  Co.  ? 

Mr,  Pierre  du  Pont,  I  do  not  recall  him. 

Mr,  Hiss.  Do  you  know,  Mr.  Gregg?    Do  you  know  Mr,  Graham? 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  do  not  know  Mr.  Graham, 

Mr,  Hiss  (continuing  reading)  : 

who  has  visited  our  plants  with  the  purpose  of  learning  the  nature  of  the  work 
to  be  accomplished. 

Can  you  identify  Mr.  Graham,  Colonel? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris,  I  think  he  belongs  to  the  firm  of 
Graham  Starrett  of  Chicago,^ 

Mr,  Hiss,  Not  Thompson  Starrett? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris,  My  records  will  show. 

Mr,  Hiss.  We  will  just  go  on  while  you  are  looking  that  up. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  All  right. 

^  Under  date  of  April  4,  1935,  Colonel  Harris  notified  the  committee  of  liis  belief  thai 
the  Mr.  Graham  referred  to  was  a  member  of  the  firm  of  Graham,  Anderson,  Probst  & 
White  of  Chicago,  designing  engineers,  employed  by  the  Thompson  Starrett  Co.  in  con- 
nection with  the  construction  of  the  Nitro  plant  at  Charleston,  W.  Va. 


3186  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Hiss  (continuing  reading  "  Exhibit  No.  1149  ")  : 

The  Secretary  evidently  realized  that  I  understood  that  Mr.  Graham  was 
willing  to  undertake  the  work,  for  he  said,  "  You  understand,  of  course,  that 
Mr.  Graham  has  made  no  bid."  He  then  said  that  the  War  Industries  Board 
had  made  a  decision,  which  though  contrary  to  his  own  views,  he  had  decided 
to  adopt.     The  decision  is  attached  hereto. 

That  refers  to  the  letter  of  November  26  offering  arbitration,  does 
it  not,  Mr.  du  Pont?  The  last  paragraph,  I  think,  will  identify  it, 
the  last  paragraph  on  the  first  page.  After  having  referred  to  the 
decision,  you  say : 

The  words  "  you  must  insist  upon  their  taking  hold  of  the  project  without 
^further  delay  " — 

Those  words  you  will  find  in  the  letter  of  November  26. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  that  is  right. 

Senator  Barbour.  Who  wrote  that  letter,  Mr.  Secretary? 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  one  I  am  reading  from? 

Senator  Barbour.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont,  to  his  board  of  directors. 

Senator  Pope.  Mr,  Hiss,  do  your  records  show  when  General 
Crozier's  services  were  discontinued  with  the  Government  or  the 
War  Department? 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  do  not  know.  Colonel  Harris,  do  you  know  what  his 
service  record  is? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  It  was  some  time  in  February. 

Senator  Pope.  1918? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  1918. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  he  ceased  to  be  chief  of  ordnance  or  retired  from 
the  Army? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  That  he  ceased  to  be  chief  of  ordnance. 

Mr.  Hiss.  He  did  not  retire  from  the  Army  at  that  time? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  He  did  not  retire  from  the  Army ;  no. 
He  went  on  another  work. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Continuing  with  this  letter  of  November  28 : 

After  reading  this  letter  of  the  War  Industries  Board  I  told  the  Secretary 
that  I  wiuld  not  assume  the  responsibility  of  a  decision;  that  our  directors 
were  to  meet  today  and  I  would  lay  the  latter  before  them  with  the  recom- 
mendation that  we  do  not  accept  the  proposition  of  the  War  Industries  Board, 

Senator  Vandexberg.  Does  that  refer  to  the  Willard  letter? 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  Willard  btter  of  November  26. 

Senator  Vandexberg.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss  (continuing  reading)  : 

The  words  "  you  must  insist  upon  their  taking  hold  of  the  project  without 
further  delay ",  and  some  remarks  of  the  Secretary  lead  me  to  make  the 
statement  that  if  the  Government  had  power  to  commandeer  our  services  we 
should  insist  that  such  power  be  exercised  in  order  to  relieve  us  of  responsi- 
i)ility  that  we  could  not  assume  ourselves.  The  Secretary  replied  that  he  was 
no',  sure  of  the  law,  but  did  not  believe  the  Government  had  power  of  insistance. 

Colonel  Harris,  do  vou  recall  section  120  of  the  National  Defense 
Act? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  do. 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  was  that  in  effect  at  this  time  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  It  was. 


MUNITIONS    INDirSTRY  3187 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  your  opinion,  did  that  give  power  to  commandeer 
plants  where  a  reasonable  compensation  could  not  be  agreed  upon 
between  the  Government  and  the  operator  or  owner  of  the  plant. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  It  gave  power  to  commandeer  existing 
plants,  but  I  do  not  know  whether  it  gave  them  power  to  commandeer 
an  organization  to  build  one. 

Mr.  Hiss.  How  manj'  instances  of  commandeering  do  3'ou  know 
of  during  the  vrar? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  There  were  many  compusory  orders 
placed,  which  is  ulso  covered  in  section  120;  but  very  few  plants 
were  actually  connnandeered,  because  that  involved  the  operation 
of  those  plants  and  the  personnel  was  not  available  for  their 
ojieration. 

Mr.  Hiss.  So  section  120  was  really  limited  for  practical  purposes 
to  compulsory  orders? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Generally  speaking,  that  is  right. 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  would  have  to  be,  in  the  nature  of  the  case  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Page  2  of  "  Exhibit  No.  1149  "  [reading]  : 

As  the  Secretary  had  approved  of  the  compensation  agreed  upon,  I  called 
attention  to  that  nnderstanding,  to  which  he  replied  that  our  protit  on  the 
work  might  be  anywhere  from  $13,000,000  to  $30,000,000;  that  his  mind  could 
not  conceive  of  services  of  anyone  being  worth  such  a  price. 

The  last  sentence  of  the  same  paragraph  [reading]  : 

The  $1,000,000  proposed  by  the  "War  Industries  Board  is  one-fourth  of  1  iier- 
cent,  so  that  the  largest  addition  that  we  might  expect  to  be  added  to  this 
amount  would  leave  a  profit  wholly  inadequate  for  so  great  an  undertaking. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  You  note  the  inference  thei-e.  The  Secretary 
insisted  that  this  15  percent  was  profit.  I  explained  carefully  that 
it  was  not,  and  if  the  contract  and  our  services  with  them  be  measured 
according  to  his  views,  which  seemed  to  be  the  case,  we  would  have 
been  something  like  $10,000,000  out  of  pocket  to  start  with,  even 
though  we  received  a  million  dollars. 

Mr.  Hiss.  But  after  your  explanation  to  him,  he  still  was  of  the 
opinion  that  the  profit  might  be  anywhere  from  $13,000,000  to 
$30,000,000. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  He  insisted  that  this  15  percent  was  all  profit. 

Mr.  Hiss.  He  disagreed  with  your  view  of  it  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  He  disagreed  with  my  view  of  it,  yes;  but 
it  was  his  opinion  against  mine.  His  opinion  ma}^  have  been  correct; 
I  have  no  doubt  it  was  honest,  but  it  was  a  difference  of  opinion. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  last  page,  the  second  complete  sentence  [reading]  : 

The  developments  of  the  past  month  have  shown  that  there  is  not  urgent 
haste. 

Your  company  had  insisted  all  along  that  there  was  urgent  haste 
in  having  additional  powder  capacity? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  A  lack  of  urgent  haste  was  indicated  by  the 
actions  at  Washington. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Did  that  cause  3'ou  to  change  your  opinion  as  to  whether 
or  not  there  was  need  to  increase  powder  capacity. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pokt.  It  did  not  change  my  opinion,  but  it  seemed 
to  indicate  that  Washington  did  not  appear  to  agree  very  closely 
with  my  opinion. 


3188  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  this  sentence  where  you  said,  "  The  developments  of 
the  past  month  have  shown  that  tliere  is  not  ui'fi^ent  haste  ",  you 
mean  you  still  thouf^ht  that  there  was  urgent  haste  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  still  thought  there  was ;  yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  last  paragraph  [reading]  : 

In  view  of  the  above  I  refommend  that  we  decline  the  offer  of  the  War 
Industries  Board,  as  presented  by  the  Secretary  of  War,  and  recommend  to  the 
latter  that  he  employ  other  contractors  as  we  have  reached  the  conclusion  that 
our  services  to  the  Government  have  not  the  value  that  we  had  supposed. 

By  "  value  "  did  you  mean  importance,  or  value  from  a  price  point 
of  view? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Either  way.  I  think  it  would  be  fair  to  say 
here  that  one  remark  of  the  Secretary  was  very  important  to  my 
mind. 

Just  after  we  received  his  telegram  canceling  the  October  order, 
which  we  supposed  was  agreed  upon  and  which  we  thought  was  fair, 
as  we  had  a  different  point  of  view  in  regard  to  the  amount  of  profit 
on  the  15  percent,  the  Secretary  said  to  me,  in  substance,  these  words : 
"  I  think  it  is  time  for  the  American  people  to  show  they  can  do 
things  for  themselves." 

I  thought  up  to  that  time  I  was  an  American  citizen,  but  he  seemed 
to  indicate  that  he  considered  we  were  a  species  of  outlaws,  and  I 
confess  I  resented  the  remark.  If  he  believed  in  it,  we  certainly  were 
not  wanted.  It  could  not  have  been  a  clearer  indication  that  we  were 
not  wanted,  to  say  the  American  people  could  do  things  for  them- 
selves, and  we  were  not  included  in  the  American  people.  It  was  a 
clear  indication  from  the  conversation  that  our  help  was  not  wanted. 

The  Chairman.  You  understood  what  he  meant  by  the  American 
people  was  the  American  Government? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  You  can  translate  it  as  well  as  I  can,  I 
know  he  seemed  to  indicate  we  were  not  included  in  the  American 
people,  because  we  were  not  considered.  I  never  could  understand 
why  the  delay  until  the  contention  at  Washington  developed, 
I  heard  about  it  for  the  first  time  yesterday.  It  may  not  have  had 
anything  to  do  with  it.  We  were  not  aware  there  was  any  contention 
at  Washington.  We  thought  the  whole  Government  was  acting  as  a 
unit.  We  did  not  distinguish  between  the  War  Industries  Board,  the 
Secretary,  and  General  Crozier.  We  thought  they  were  all  together. 
We  never  suspected  there  was  any  difference  between  their  opinions 
and  actions. 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  November  28,  1917,  your  board  adopted  your  recom- 
mendation, didn't  it,  Mr.  du  Pont?  I  offer  an  extract  from  the 
minutes  of  that  date  as  an  exhibit. 

(Tlie  extract  from  minutes  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No. 
1150",  and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3276.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  But  the  board  added  a  clause  to  the  refusal,  namely : 

This  board  is  willing  to  add  a  clause  to  its  said  revised  proposal  under  and 
by  which  the  du  Pont  Co.  will  apn'ee  that  in  no  event  shall  the  total  compensa- 
tion received  liy  this  company  be  an  amount  ijreater  than  10  percent  of  the 
actual  construction  cost  and  15  percent  of  the  actual  mill  cost  of  powder 
produced  at  such  plants. 

The  Chairman.  That  was  a  suggested  amendment  to  the  contract? 
Mr.  Hiss.  That  was  a  suggested  counter  offer. 
On  December  1.  1917 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3189 

The  Chairman.  Just  a  moment.  I  take  it  from  the  minutes  of 
this  meeting  that  the  company  was  not  willing  to  accept  any  contract 
or  enter  into  any  understanding  unless  there  could  be  a  guaranty 
that  they  were  going  to  have  at  least  10  percent  on  their  construction 
cost  and  15  percent  on  their  operating  cost.  Is  that  the  conclusion 
to  be  drawn? 

]\Ir.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Not  quite  that.  We  would  put  in  the  pro- 
vision that  the  profits  should  not  exceed  that.  There  was  a  great 
divergence  in  the  opinion  as  to  what  constituted  a  profit  and  what 
did  not.  We  probably  thought — I  am  only  guessing  at  this— 
that  was  a  safe  margin."^  We  never  expected  to  get  that  amount  out 
of  it  originally. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  There  is  constant  reference  to  the  board  and 
the  action  of  the  board  in  these  matters.  Was  it  a  large  board,  Mr. 
du  Pont,  or  a  small  board  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  do  not  remember  how  many  were  on  it. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  mean  your  board  of  directors. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes;  I  know. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Was  it  a  large  group  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  should  think  about  15  to  20  at  that  time. 
I  am  not  sure.    It  was  not  a  small  board  of  4  or  5. 

Senator  Barbour.  Mr.  du  Pont,  when  you  speak  of  15-percent 
mill  cost,  that  would  not  probably  be  a  net  15-percent  cost  to  the 
company  in  the  final  profit  sense  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  What  we  meant  by  a  profit  was  clear  of  all 
expenses.  But  there  was  a  great  difference  between  our  opinion  of 
what  constituted  expenses  as  compared  to  the  Government's  opinion. 
We  thought  originally  when  we  made  the  proposition  of  15  percent 
that  a  large  part  of  that  was  actual  out-of-pocket  expenses,  but  the 
Government  did  not  agree  with  us  on  that.  Our  minds  would  not 
meet  on  the  subject.  We  each  had  our  opinion  and  stuck  to  it,  and 
that  was  the  end  of  it. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  a  letter  of  December  1,  1917,  Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont 
more  fully  sets  forth  the  counteroffer  of  the  board  of  directors.  I 
might  just  read  that,  and  that  may  clear  up  the  point  you  have  in 
mind. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  May  we  have  a  list  of  the  board  of  directors, 
at  your  convenience,  at  that  time?  ^ 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  December  1,  1917,  you  wrote  to  Mr.  Willard,  then 
chairman  of  the  War  Industries  Board.  I  offer  this  letter  for  the 
record. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  1151",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3277.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  third  sentence  reads: 

At  a  meeting"  held  November  28,  1917,  the  proposition  was  given  most  careful 
and  lengthy  consideration,  not  only  from  the  point  of  view  of  financial  advantage 
to  the  company  but  from  the  side  of  the  Government,  with  full  appreciation  of 
its  needs,  the  gravity  of  the  situation,  and  the  appeal  of  patriotism.  As  a 
result  the  board  of  directors  have  requested  that  this  letter  be  addressed  to 
the  War  Industries  Board,  respectfully  declining  their  offer  of  November  26. 

1  The  (111  Pont  Co.  later  submitted  a  list  of  their  officers  and  directors  for  1917  (see 
Hearings,  Part  XIII,  text  footnote  p.  2958,  appendix  p.  3162). 


3190  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Page  2,  the  first  complete  paragraph : 

E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  are  the  owners  of  about  90  percent  of  the- 
military  smokeless  powder  producing  capacity  of  the  United  States. 

You  had  far  and  away  the  most  experience  in  producing  powder 
on  a  large  scale,  hadn't  you  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont,  No  doubt.    What  letter  is  that '( 

Mr.  Hiss.  December  1,  1917,  from  you  to  Mr.  Willard. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont,  Yes, 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  was  reading  from  the  first  complete  paragraph  on  page- 
2.    Now,  turn  to  page  3,  the  Irst  paragraph  on  that  page  [reading]  : 

When  amortization  charges  were  covered  we  voluntarily  reduced  our  prices, 
so  that  in  April  1917  our  price  was  60  cents  per  pound.  When  our  Government 
aslied  for  bids  we  again  voluntarily  made  a  reduction  and  offered  to  all  cus- 
tomers for  prompt  delivery  millions  of  pounds  of  smokele.ss  powder  at  47i/^ 
cents  per  poinid. 

That  price  refers  to  cannon  water-dried  powder,  which  was  the 
cheapest  of  three  types  of  powder,  was  it  not  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  As  I  understand  it. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  other  words,  cannon  air-dried  was  49  cents,  and  3U- 
caliber  smokeless  powder  was  60  cents,  was  it  not  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  stated  the  lowest  of  the  three  possible  prices. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  That  Avas  the  large  tonnage. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  believe  in  those  offers  w^e  took  the  risk  of 
the  raw  materials. 

Mr.  Hiss,  On  page  4,  Mr,  du  Pont,  the  first  complete  paragraph, 
[reading]  : 

Throughout  our  foreign  customers  have  placed  absolute  reliance  upon  the 
ability  of  the  company  to  manufacture  powder  for  them  and  have  advanced 
for  construction  and  operation  of  the  factories  very  large  sums  of  money  so 
that  at  times  we  held  in  excess  of  $100,000,000  of  their  cash  without  any- 
security  whatever. 

This  refers  to  the  evidence  put  in  as  to  advance  payments,  and  no 
security  was  furnished  by  the  compan}^  for  any  of  those  advance  pay- 
ments ;  that  is  correct,  is  it  not  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  depends  on  what  you  mean  by  security. 
We  did  not  put  up  any  collateral  or  anything  of  that  kind. 

Mr.  Hiss,  I  was  asking  what  you  meant. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  was  acknowledged  as  a  debt  of  the  com- 
pany and  would  have  to  be  returned.  We  acknowledged  the  receipt 
of  the  advanced  money,  on  open  account. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  other  words,  it  Avas  an  open  account,  unsecured  by 
collateral ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  take  it. 

Senator  Barbour.  Your  customers  did  not  need  any  security  ? 

Mr,  Irenee  du  Pont,  We  did  not  have  any  to  put  up. 

Senator  Barbour.  That  is  what  I  say, 

Mr,  Irenee  du  Pont.  Unless  it  would  be  a  mortgage  on  the  plant. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  last  paragraph  on  the  same  page  [reading]  : 

From  the  above  it  is  evident  that  the  United  States  Government  now  enjoys 
the  advantage  of  an  enormous  and  certain  powder  supply  amounting  to  440,- 
000,000  pounds  per  annum,  at  a  low  price,  and  without  necessity  of  paying  one 
cent  for  amortizating  these  factories  whose  cost  at  today's  prices  would  be 
$130,000,000  and  without  submitting  to  any  delay  for  their  building. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3191 

Mr,  Pierre  du  Pont,  I  think  that  this,  Mr,  Chairmfin,  was  one  of 
tlie  principal  factors  in  this  whole  contention,  the  back  log  of 
capacity  actually  existed.  Tlie  situation  would  have  been  quite  dif- 
ferent on  both  sides  if  that  had  not  been  the  case. 

The  Chairman.  And  the  requirement  now  was  for  pay  for  capacity 
that  had  been  made  to  exist? 

I\[r.  Irenee  du  Pont.  What  is  that? 

Mv.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  do  not  quite  understand  that,  Mr.  Chair- 
man. 

The  Chairman,  Maybe  I  misunderstood  in  drawing  the  conclu- 
sion that  you  were  feeling  that  in  asking  that  the  larger  considera- 
tion in  way  of  assurance  of  a  profit  you  had  in  mind  that  you  had 
created  a  capacity  that  the  Government  now  had  access  to  and  that 
that  capacity  was  inviting  consideration  from  the  Government  in  the 
way  of  pay. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  do  not  quite  understand  the  question  yet, 
Mr,  Senator,  The  fact  that  this  large  powder  factory — series  of 
powder  factories — existed  in  the  country  and  was  available  for  a 
part  of  the  supply  of  our  Government,  as  well  as  our  Allies,  was  a 
great  factor  on  both  sides  in  the  negotiations.  The  pressure  for 
new  powder  plants  was  in  a  measure  relieved  in  that  way.  I  am 
looking  backward  on  the  thing  now.  I  never  recall  having  con- 
sidered that  point  at  the  time,  but  looking  backward  on  the  thing 
now,  I  think  it  did. 

The  Chairman.  I  am  referring  to  the  minutes  of  the  meeting  of 
the  board  of  directors  just  prior  to  that  in  which  you  were  insisting 
upon  at  least  a  10  percent  return. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  No  ;  not  more  than  10  percent.  That  is,  we 
were  putting  a  top  limit. 

The  Chairman.  Your  minutes  show  that  you  were  ready  to  make 
it  a  case  of  not  more  than  that. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  is  right. 

The  Chairman.  Ten  percent  on  construction  costs  and  15  percent 
on  the  operating  costs. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  That  certainly  indicates  the  top  margin  for 
the  benefit  of  the  other  parties,  not  the  profit  we  were  getting.  The 
company  put  a  minimum  price  they  would  sell  for  in  a  contract 
to  protect  themselves.  We  agreed  that  it  shall  not  be  over  that 
under  certain  conditions. 

DELAY   IN    construction    FOR    3    MONTHS    DUE    TO   DISAGREEMENT    AS    TO 
amount   of   COMPENSATION   TO  DU   PONT   CO. 

The  Chairman.  Colonel  Harris,  sitting  where  you  did  in  those 
days,  how  much  quibbling  did  you  encounter  as  respected  the  profit 
that  was  to  be  enjoyed  out  of  the  contracts  which  the  Government 
was  extending? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  was  not  on  the  procuring  side  or  on 
the  negotiating  side  during  the  war.  I  was  on  the  engineering  and 
technical  end  of  the  ammunition,  so  that  my  experience  would  not 
enable  me  to  give  first-hand  information  on  that  question. 

The  Chairman.  Surely  in  your  contact  you  must  have  had  some 
knowledge  of  the  difficulties  that  were  being  encountered  in  connec- 
tion with  contractingf. 


3192  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  would  say  that  there  was  not  a  great 
deal  of  difficulty  in  arriving  at  an  agreement  during  the  war.  Dur- 
ing the  war  the  time  element  was  the  important  thing.  When  this 
original  agreement  of  General  Crozier's  was  reached  on  October  25 
we  were  half  way  through  the  World  War  or  well  into  the  World 
War,  and  General  Crozier  thought  he  was  making  an  equitable 
contract. 

The  negotiations  afterwards  came  from  the  War  Industries  Board 
disagreeing  with  General  Crozier.  Three  months  were  taken  up  in 
negotiations  which  finally  led  to  the  final  agi'eement.  There  were  3 
months  lost  in  the  middle  of  the  war  by  these  negotiations.  That 
had  a  very  serious  effect  on  the  military  effort.  Fortunately  it  did 
not  have  a  fatal  effect,  but  it  might  have  had. 

The  Chairman.  It  might  have  had? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  There  is  no  question  in  my  mind  that 
this  time  was  lost,  that  something  ought  to  have  been  done  to  get 
this  production  under  way. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  In  other  words,  are  you  saying  there  were^ 
3  months  involved  in  the  negotiations  over  what  the  compensation 
should  be  on  this  program  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  The  original  contract  as  signed  was  a. 
legal  document,  on  October  25,  1917. 

Mr.  Hiss.  October  25  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  October  25,  1917.  The  final  agree- 
ment was  signed,  I  think,  on  January  28. 

Mr.  Gregg.  January  29. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  January  29,  1918,  which  is  3  months- 
and  4  days  later. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  was  again  amended  on  March  23,  1918,  and  turned 
into  quite  a  different  kind  of  contract.  It  was  not  even  then 
satisfactory. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  And  Avas  there  no  progress  made,  no  physi- 
cal progress  itself,  during  those  3  months? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  There  were  dealings  in  connection 
with  getting  under  way,  as  has  been  brought  out  here.  The  du  Fonts 
had  gone  ahead  at  the  direction  of  the  Ordnance  Department,  and,, 
to  my  mind,  proper  direction. 

Senator  Clark.  But  there  was  not  any  construction  going  on 
during  that  period? 

Mr.  Hiss,  There  was  a  delay  in  construction,  wasn't  there? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Had  not  the  Government  started  on  the  construction 
of  Nitro  prior  to  January  1918? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  The  Nitro  plant  was  started  about  2 
months  before  the  Old  Hickory.  What  date  it  is  without  looking  it 
up  I  could  not  say.  I  think  it  is  in  January.  I  might  say,  as  long  as 
I  am  talking,  as  a  result  of  this  dela}^  there  was  a  proposal  to  build 
a  third  plant,  because  of  the  fear  that  was  engendered  by  the  grow- 
ing demand  for  supply,  and  there  was  a  proposal  put  forward  to 
build  a  third  plant  of  some  size.  I  was  one  of  the  advisers  on  that 
and  I  advised  against  it;  did  not  think  it  was  necessary. 

The  Chairman.  What  was  the  one  thing  that  prevented  quick 
accomplishment  of  agreement  there  ? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3193 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  think  it  must  have  been  the  differ- 
ence of  opinion  by  members  of  the  War  Industries  Board  and  the 
du  Pont  Co.  as  to  what  their  net  profit  would  be. 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  the  refusal  by  the  du  Pont  Co,  to  enter  into 
arbitration  up  to  the  point  which  Ave  have  now  reached. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  That  is  not  a  fair  remark.  It  never  came 
up  to  arbitrate  what  was  a  proper  compensation.  Mr.  Willard  said 
if  we  would  accept  the  proposition,  and  if  we  could  not  then  agree 
on  what  was  proper,  we  would  arbitrate,  but  the  holding  up  of  this, 
contract  had  nothing  to  do  with  failure  to  arbitrate. 

Mr,  Hiss,  I  beg  your  pardon.  The  November  26  letter  of  the 
War  Industries  Board  was  an  offer  to  you  to  start  immediate  con- 
struction, to  pay  you  $1,000,000  in  advance,  and  to  arbitrate  what, 
if  any,  additional  compensation  might  be  paid  to  you,  if  you  could 
not  agree  after  18  months'  negotiation, 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont,  That  is  only  one  clause  in  that,  sir.  It  pro- 
vides that  the  Secretary  of  War  should  determine  at  some  time  in 
the  future,  which  would  be  to  try  to  determine  it. 

Mr.  Hiss.  It  does  not  provide  that  the  Secretary  of  War  is  to  de- 
termine it.    It  was  to  be  based  on  negotiation. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont,  Negotiated  by  the  Secretary  of  War, 

Mr.  Hiss.  Negotiated  by  the  Secretary  of  War  with  the  du  Pont  Co. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Do  you  think  that  anybody  on  behalf  of  the 
Government  had  a  proper  right  to  enter  into  a  contract  committing 
the  Government  to  that  kind  of  a  proposition  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  doubt  it ;  but  is  that  the  reason  you  turned  it  down  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  was  not  workable.  I  would  not  want  to 
sign  a  contract  of  that  kind.    That  would  have  been  my  reason. 

The  Chairman.  Was  that  the  reason  at  the  time? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  could  not  tell  you  what  was  in  the  minds  of 
the  other  people,  but  I  could  not  find  anj^body  keen  about  it. 

The  Chairman.  Colonel  Harris,  was  there  a  more  critical  time 
during  the  war  than  that  immediate  time  was? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  It  is  hard  to  say  which  was  the  most 
critical  time  of  the  war,  but  certainly  that  was  a  very  critical  time. 

Senator  Clark.  The  Germans  were  about  ready  to  break  through 
on  Paris? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  March  was  a  critical  time  on  the  west- 
ern front,  and  this  Avas  3  or  4  months  before  that. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont,  in  the  letter  written  by  Mr.  Pierre 
du  Pont,  copy  of  which  is  before  you,  entered  in  the  record  as 
"  Exhibit  No.  1151  ",  which  is  in  answer  to  the  proposition  of  the 
War  Industries  Board,  I  find  no  statement  that  the  company  was 
afraid  of  the  legality  of  an  arbitration  clause. 

At  the  bottom  of  page  5  it  says  [reading]  : 

We  have  insisted  that  these  general  conditions  be  safeguarded  in  our  proposi- 
tion to  tlie  United  States  Government ;  that  is,  this  worli  is  to  be  allotted  to  us 
as  agent  of  the  Government,  with  absolute  power  as  to  tlie  exercise  of  our 
judgment  and  discretion  in  its  accomplishment. 

To  go  back  to  the  conditions,  they  are — 

First.  The  absolute  confidence  of  our  customers  and  our  employees. 
Second.  The  placing  of  responsibility   upon  our  men   and   upholding  theJr 
decisions. 


3194  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Third.  The  offering  of  proper  financial  inducement  to  all  employees  and  gen- 
erous reward  to  every  man  wlio  shows  extraordinary  attainments. 

Fourth.  The  pursuit  of  normal  metliods  in  conducting  a  very  large  business 
under  prosperous  conditions. 

On  page  6,  the  first  complete  paragraph  reads : 

In  arriving  at  the  terms  of  the  order  as  it  now  stands,  we  foresaw  the 
possibility  of  a  failure  to  operate  the  proposed  factories  after  their  comple- 
tion. We,  therefore,  asked  compensation  for  construction  work,  agreeing  that 
this  should  be  6^^  percent  on  the  cost  thereof.  This  condition  was  promptly 
eliminated  when  the  Ordnance  Department  proposed  that  similar  compensation 
would  be  guaranteed  through  the  operations  of  the  factories. 

In  other  words,  you  at  all  times  wanted  compensation  for  con- 
struction as  well  as  operation,  and  the  reason  you  changed  from  a  cost 
of  construction  and  a  cost  of  operation  to  a  cost  of  operation  plan  was 
because  compensation  for  construction  would  be  guaranteed  through 
the  operation  of  the  factories.     [Continuing  reading :] 

We  also  asked  a  minimum  compensation  on  operation.  At  first  5  cents  per 
pound  on  a  base  cost  of  44^^  cents  was  proposed.  By  this  means  the  Govern- 
ment was  to  be  assured  powder  at  today's  price  and  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours 
&  Co.  was  to  be  guaranteed  a  profit  of  lli/4  percent  on  cost.  In  naming  this 
price  we  were  confident  that  probable  conditions  would  enable  us  to  reduce  the 
base  cost  which  was  proposed  as  an  insurance  provision  only. 

You,  of  course,  expected  to  make  more  than  II14  percent;  is  not 
that  correct? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  would  look  like  it  if  we  could  save  the 
difference. 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  you  were  confident  that  the  probable  conditions 
would  enable  you  to  do  it,  according  to  this  statement  of  Mr.  Pierre 
du  Pont? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  That  sounds  reasonable. 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  page  8  [reading]  : 

Whatever  may  be  the  position  in  regard  to  the  compensation  of  B.  I.  du 
Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.,  the  essential  point  of  interest  is  the  cost  of  powder 
to  the  Government.  Prior  to  the  war  the  price  of  powder  was  fixed  by  con- 
gressional act  at  53  cents  per  pound.  AVar  conditions  have  added  10  cents  per 
pound  to  this  cost  for  essential  ingredients  alone ;  so  that  today's  comparative 
figure  should  be  63  cents  per  pound  without  any  additional  allowance  to  the 
powder  manufacturer. 

That  does  not  take  into  consideration  increased  volume  which 
might  decrease  cost,  does  it? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Of  course,  increased  volume  would  tend  to 
decrease  costs  quite  materially,  but  the  great  thing  was  the  improve- 
ment in  efficiency  in  manufacture. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Which  in  itself  reduced  the  cost? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  We  used  less  alcohol,  which  I  pointed  out. 
Alcohol  was  12  cents,  I  think,  without  regard  to  your  quotation. 

Mr.  Hiss  (reading)  : 

Under  the  order  now  before  the  War  Industries  Board  the  Government  may 
obtain  powder  at  44^2  cents,  or  16  percent  below  pre-war  prices  in  face  of  the 
above-mentioned  advance  in  essential  materials  of  10  cents  per  pound. 

That  441/2-cent  figure  did  not  include  depreciation  charges,  did  it? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  No. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Whereas,  if  the  Government  had  been  buying  from  you 
direct,  it  would  have  to  include  depreciation  charges?  In  other 
words,  the  Government  was  standing  its  own  depreciation  charges? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3195 

Mi\  Irenee  du  Pont.  Obsolescence,  really.  The  plant  would  be 
useless  after  the  war.    Somebody  had  to  pay  for  it. 

Mr.  Hiss.  So  that  44i/^  cents  does  not  represent  the  cost  per  pound 
of  powder  to  the  Government,  since  it  had  to  stand  the  cost  of  con- 
struction less  salva<^e? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pokt.  Yes;  they  had  to  do  that  anyhow. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  had  to  be  added  into  the  441/2  cents.  The  cost 
turned  out  to  be  $85,000,000.  Are  you  informed  how  much  Old 
Hickory  brought  the  Government,  if  anything,  by  way  of  salvage? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  am  not  informed. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Are  you.  Colonel  Harris  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Approximately  3i/^  million  dollars. 

Mr.  Hiss.  So  that  the  difference  between  $85,000,000  and  $3,500,000 
must  have  been  added  into  the  441/2  cents. 

Mr.  iRENiiE  DU  Pont.  Nobody  knew  the  armistice  was  coming  in 
1918  at  that  time. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Therefore  your  statement  that  the  Government  could 
obtain  powder  at  44i/o  cents  or  16  percent  below  pre-war  prices  is 
not  a  complete  statement? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  is  not  complete,  but  it  is  accurate.  There 
was  no  amortization  of  the  plants  when  w^e  quoted  that,  because  it 
was  a  going  concern,  to  be  used  year  after  year. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Do  you  know  what  your  profit  was  when  you  were 
quoting  53  cents? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  think  it  varied  from  year  to  year. 

Mr.  Hiss.  May  I  introduce  at  this  time  the  statement  of  sales  to 
the  United  States  Government  from  1899  to  1914? 

(The  document  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1152  "  and 
is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3280.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  shows  in  the  left-hand  column  fixed  investment 
less  depreciation,  the  next  column  working  capital.  These  are  totaled 
as  your  total  investment.  Then  are  shown  the  number  of  pounds 
sold,  the  gross  price  per  pound,  and  the  net  per  pound.  What  does 
that  net  per  pound  mean?  Mr.  Eliason,  can  you  get  out  a  copy  of 
that,  so  that  we  can  have  it  before  us? 

Mr.  Eliason.  Mr.  Bradway  has  all  that  information. 

Mr.  Hiss.  This  is  a  statement  we  had  yesterday,  the  blue-backed 
study. 

Mr.  Eliason,  Is  it  the  one  which  shows  advances  on  the  contract  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  it.  According  to  the  next  to  the  last  column, 
your  percentage  of  profit  on  your  net  investment,  including  fixed 
investment  and  working  capital,  in  1914,  on  sales  to  the  United 
States  Government — and  this  includes  du  Pont,  Laflin  &  Rand,  and 
International  companies — was  28  percent  in  1914,  to  June  30,  appar- 
ently, 28  percent;  in  1913,  20  percent;  in  1912,  40  percent;  in  1911, 
41  percent. 

There  was  very  good  reason  why  at  that  time  there  should  be  a 
reduction  over  the  pre-war  cost,  was  there  not,  Mr.  du  Pont,  par- 
ticularly in  view  of  the  increased  volume  and  increased  efficiency? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  think  so,  excepting  for  the  increased  cost 
of  raw  materials  which  must  be  taken  into  effect. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  think  that  this  information  might  well  be  a  footnote 
to  the  proposed  chart  as  it  applies  to  powder,  which  is  going  to  be 
offered.    Do  you  not  think  so? 

83876 — 3.^ — PT  14 3 


3196  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  think  that  would  be  quite  proper,  by  stat- 
ing what  the  costs  were  in  previous  years.  We  proceeded  to  meet 
that. 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  profit  in  previous  years. 

Mr.  Ikenee  du  Pont.  I  would  like  to  explain  one  item.  You  put 
down  total  investment.  This  represents  the  actual  working  capital, 
the  raw  materials,  the  actual  cost,  and  things  in  process,  and  all 
that.  This  represents  an  appraisal  of  what  the  reproductive  cost  of 
the  buildings  on  hand  and  utilized  was.  It  does  not  represent  what 
the  du  Pont  Co.  paid  for  this  in  1904,  which  was  a  great  deal  more 
than  that. 

Mr.  Hiss.  At  the  bottom  of  this  page  there  is  a  statement  as  to 
your  original  investment.  Over  the  period  1899  to  June  1914,  it  is 
stated  that  on  sales  to  the  United  States  Government  there  was  a 
25-percent  return  on  investment. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  That  investment  is  reproducible  investment.. 
That  is  the  point  I  wanted  to  make  there.  That  does  not  represent 
what  the  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Powder  Co.  paid  for  these 
joroperties  in  1904.  They  paid  a  great  deal  more  than  that,  because 
we  had  to  pay  for  their  earning  power  at  that  time,  which  had  all 
been  absorbed  in  previous  years.  They  had  built  up  a  goodwill  and 
"  know-how  "  and  destroyed  a  great  many  buildings  which  had  been 
built  because,  with  the  advance  in  the  art,  they  were  not  necessary 
and  because  improved  buildings  were  put  in. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  stating  this  for  your  directors,  that  information  did 
not  seem  to  be  important? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  was  understood.  That  was  the  appraisal. 
I  helped  make  the  appraisal  myself. 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  page  9  of  "  Exhibit  No.  1151  ",  which  refused  the 
offer  of  the  War  Industries  Board,  it  states : 

Our  willingness  to  negotiate — 

This  is  the  top  of  the  page — 

has  been  based  entirely  upon  the  necessities  of  the  Government  and  the  belief 
that  our  company  is  not  only  the  best  equipped  for  executing  the  work  promptly 
but  practically  the  only  organization  capabl©  of  so  doing. 

Is  it  not  true  that  that  was  the  general  belief,  not  only  of  yourself 
but  of  the  War  Department,  and  of  most  informed  people  on  the' 
subject? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  The  chief  of  the  War  Department  advised  us- 
directly  to  the  contrary. 

Mr  Irenee  du  Pont.  The  Secretary  of  War. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  mean  the  Secretary  of  War. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Not  according  to  the  letter.  The  War  Industries  Board 
specifically  stated  in  their  letter  that  it  was  their  belief  that  you  were 
the  best  people  [reading  from  "  Exhibit  No.  1148  "]  : 

It  is  our  opinion  that  the  du  Pont  people  are  in  every  way  the  best  fitted 
for  securing  this  result. 

We  are  of  the  further  opinion  that  the  emergency  nature  of  the  case  requires; 
that  the  proposed  plant  be  constructed  in  the  least  posvsible  time  and  operated 
with  the  greatest  efficiency.     *     *     * 

It  was  only  the  compensation  which  was  causing  the  delay. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  did  not  so  consider  it,  but  the  Secretary's 
statement  practically  meant  that  we  were  not  needed  in  the  situation^ 
although  we  were  and  always  did  think  so. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTKY  3197 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  page  9  of  "  Exhibit  No.  1151  "  you  state : 

The  order  of  General  Crozier  dated  October  25,  1917,  we  thought  official 
and  final.    On  its  receipt  work  was  begun  by  us. 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  some  work — we  won't  try  to  determine  how 
much,  because  there  has  been  some  dispute  as  to  it — some  work  was 
done  before  that.     That  is  true,  is  it  not? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  state,  on  page  10  [reading]  : 

Since  tb.en — 

Since  the  receipt  of  the  telegram  of  October  31 — 
or  for  a  period  of  1  month,  everything  has  been  held  in  abeyance. 

That  was  not  quite  accurate,  was  it?  You  had  continued  with 
the  options,  you  had  received  instructions  from  General  Crozier  to 
take  up  options  on  machinery,  and  to  begin  taking  up  options  on 
land? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  But  that  was  a  very  small  part  of  the  whole 
thing. 

Mr.  Hiss  (reading)  : 

We  do  not  know  of  any  criticism  as  to  the  fairness  of  the  eouTpensation 
proposed  for  the  construction  and  operation  of  these  plants. 

You  at  that  time  did  not  know  of  Mr.  Brookings'  letters  of  Novem- 
ber 7  and  the  later  letter  of  November  14, 1  think  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Those  letters  I  had  never  seen  before.  Col- 
onel Buckner  might  have  known  of  them,  but  I  certainly  did  not. 

Mr.  Hiss  (continuing  reading  "  Exhibit  No.  1151  ")  : 

The  stumbling  block  seems  to  be  the  payment  of  the  whole  compensation 
to  one  corporation,  especially  to  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  To  meet 
this  difficulty,  we  have  offered  to  surrender  any  part  of  the  work,  or  preferably 
the  whole  of  it,  and  to  furnish  other  contractors  with  drawings  of  existing 
plants  free  of  charge.     We  have  insisted  on  two  things  only : 

First,  that  we  shall  not  be  responsible  for  mistakes  of  others,  that  is,  we 
will  not  operate  a  factory  built  by  others,  nor  will  we  build  a  factory  to  be 
operated  by  others ;  and  on  any  one  factory  site  the  entire  work  shall  he  done 
by  us. 

Second,  that  for  any  part  of  the  work  done  by  us  we  shall  receive  a  rate  of 
compensation  that  is  fair,  even  though  the  total  amount  of  money  so  re- 
ceived may  seem  large  if  the  magnitude  of  the  work  involved  is  not  con- 
sidered.    *     *     * 

We,  therefore,  submit  that  the  following  must  be  of  the  essence  of  our  con- 
tract with  the  United  States  Government  in  this  important  work : 

First,  the  absolute  confidence  of  the  Government  in  us  and  our  ability  to 
perform  the  duties  allotted  to  us.     *     *     * 

Second,  the  responsiblity  to  us  for  ultimate  success  of  the  undertaking 
without  interference.     *     *     * 

Third,  a  decision  as  to  proper  compensation  for  our  services,  including  an 
allowance  for  extraordinary  performance,  such  as  that  already  named  in  the 
order  of  October  25  issued  by  General  Crozier. 

I  find  nothing  in  this  letter  which  says  that  the  company  was 
fearful  of  accepting  any  offer  of  arbitration  because  it  might  exceed 
the  powers  of  the  Government. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  No. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Was  that  in  your  mind  in  writing  the  letter,  so  far  as 
you  can  recall? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  do  not  recall  it  in  that  form,  but  I  thought 
it  highly  inadvisable  to  enter  into  that  kind  of  a  contract  with  the 


319S  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Government,  where  we  had  no  protection  against  what  their  idea  of 
proper  compensation  was  or  what  should  be  charged  to  compensation. 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  December  3,  1917,  the  War  Industries  Board  hekl  a 
special  meeting  at  which  were  present  Mr.  Willard,  chairman;  Mr, 
Baruch;  Mr.  Brookings;  Admiral  Fletcher;  Judge  Lovett;  and  Mr. 
Bingham,  secretary.  I  offer  excerpts  from  the  minutes  of  this  meet- 
ing as  the  next  exhibit. 

(The  document  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1153  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3281.) 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Might  I  say  something  in  regard  to  the 
October  contract?  That  was  a  firm  contract,  we  thought,  from  the 
Government,  signed,  and  had  started  in  operation.  It  w^as  abrogated 
the  next  day,  almost,  maybe  2  days  afterward.  We  made  no  com- 
plaint about  that.  We  accepted  the  new  situation  and  went  ahead 
trying  to  be  useful,  without  any  prospect,  so  far  as  tiie  Secretary's 
announcement  was  concerned,  that  we  were  wanted  in  the  picture  or 
would  be  in  the  picture,  but  we  still  maintained  right  down  that  any- 
thing we  had  was  open  to  the  use  of  the  Government  or  we  would 
undertake  the  work.     We  could  not  have  done  much  more. 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  December  3,  1917,  at  the  special  meeting  to  which  I 
referred,  the  following  appeared  [reading]  : 

Special  meeting,  increase  powder  facilities. — The  Secretary  of  War  iuformed 
the  Board  that  the  flu  Pont  Co.  had  refused  to  undertake  the  building  of  the 
proposed  powder  plant  on  any  other  terms  than  those  contained  in  their  last 
proposition,  except  for  a  minor  change  which  was  considered  to  have  little  or 
no  effect  on  the  favorableness  of  the  proposed  arrangement. 

That  was  the  oifer  to  limit  the  contract  to  10  percent  on  construc- 
tion and  15  percent  on  operation.  That  is  the  only  change  which 
your  board  of  directors  had  specified  in  the  resolution  of  November 
28,  which  has  already  been  introduced.    Is  that  correct? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  am  not  sure.    I  cannot  tell. 

The  Chairman.  In  the  meantime,  Colonel  Harris,  who  was  the 
secretary  of  the  War  Industries  Board? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  He  was  the  secretary  of  the  War 
Industries  Board.  Mr.  Bingham. 

Mr.  Hiss.  What  was  his  first  name? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  will  find  out,  sir.     I  do  not  know.' 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  December  10 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  have  not  assented  to  your  statement.  That 
is  your  testimony,  so  far,  and  not  mine. 

Mr.  Hiss.  All  right,  sir. 

May  I  call  your  attention  to  the  extract  from  the  board  of  direc- 
tors' minutes  of  the  du  Pont  Co.  of  November  28,  1917,  already 
introduced  in  evidence?     [Reading  from  "Exhibit  No.  1150":] 

Whereas,  in  the  judgment  of  this  board,  this  company's  revised  proposal 
declined  by  the  War  Industries  Board,  by  letter  of  November  26,  1917,  will,  if 
accepted,  return  us  a  net  total  compensation  of  not  more  than  10  percent  on 
the  construction  cost  and  15  percent  on  the  operating  cost ;  and 

Whereas  this  board  feels  that  the  War  Industries  Board  must  be  of  the 
opinion  that  the  compensation  may  be  materially  in  excess  of  the  above 
percentages ;  therefore,  be  it 

Resolved,  That  the  Secretary  of  War  be  advised  that  this  board  is  willing  to 
add  a  clause  to  its  said  revised  proposal  under  and  by  which  the  du  Pont  Co. 
will  agree  that  in  no  event  shall  the  total  compensation  received  by  this  com- 

^  See  p.  3207  for  additional  information  regarding  Mr.  Bingham. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3199 

pany  be  an  amount  greater  than  10  percent  of  the  actual  construction  cost  and 
15  percent  of  the  actual  mill  cost     *     *     *_ 

Did  you  inform  the  Government  of  that  action  of  your  board,  Mr. 
dii  Pont? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  am  not  certain  that  that  was  sent  them. 
But  this  letter  to  Mr.  WiUard,  on  December  1,  covers  the  ground. 
I  do  not  care  whether  this  was  submitted  or  not. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  letter  of  December  1  refused  the  offer  of  November 
26,  which  was  that  you  start  work  with  the  payment  of  $1,000,000 
and  leave  the  compensation  to  be  determined  by  negotiation  which, 
if  not  completed,  if  not  successfully  terminated  at  the  end  of  18 
months,  wotdd  then  be  open  to  arbitration.  This  letter  refused  that. 
My  question  was,  Did  you  inform  the  Secretary  of  War  of  this 
resolution  of  your  board  of  directors? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  have  no  record  of  that.  I  do  not  know. 
But  the  letter  of  December  1  outlined  our  position.  It  refused  their 
proposition  and  on  the  next  to  the  last  page  (no.  11)  stated  what 
the  essence  of  our  proposed  contract  was  to  be,  which  was  indefinite, 
to  be  sure,  but  it  was  not  quite  in  line  with  what  you  said. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Mr.  Secretary,  can  you  give  me  the  author- 
ity of  Mr.  Bingham  in  stating  that  the  du  Pont  Co.  had  refused  to 
undertake  the  building  of  the  proposed  powder  plant  on  any  other 
terms  than  those  contained  in  the  last  statement?  Have  you  any 
authority  for  that  statement? 

Mr.  Hiss.  My  authority  is  the  letter  of  December  1,  1917,  "  Ex- 
hibit No.  1151  "  which  has  just  been  read,  and  in  which  Mr.  Pierre 
du  Pont  said : 

We  therefore  submit  that  the  following  must  be  of  the  essence  of  our  contract 
with  the  United  States  Government  in  this  important  worli     *     *     *_ 

It  is  with  deepest  regret  that  we  find  ourselves  imable  to  accept  the  plan 
of  the  War  Industries  Board,  but  trust  that  this  letter  of  explanation,  together 
with  our  willingness  to  limit  our  compensation  in  the  manner  above  stated,  will 
enable  the  Board  to  reach  a  conclusion  in  this  important  affair. 

That  is,  namely,  10  and  15  percent,  which  was  contained  in  the 
resolution  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  This  says  we  refused  to  do  it  on  any  other 
terms. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Read  a  little  further,  "  except  " 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont  (reading)  : 

For  a  minor  change. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  right.  Which  is  the  10  and  15  percent  change. 
That  is  the  only  thing  which  your  board  authorized  you  to  do. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  But  we  did  not  refuse  to  do  it  under  any 
other  terms. 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  refused  to  do  it  under  their  offer. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  replied  that  you  would  do  it  under  the  then-con- 
sidered proposition,  limited  to  10  and  15  percent  on  construction  and 
operation,  respectively. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  That  is  correct,  but  it  does  not  say  we  refused 
to  do  it  under  any  other  terms. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  we  did  it  under  other 
terms. 


3200  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  recall  Mr.  Bingham's  report  being  incorrect 
and  was  demonstrated  as  being  incorrect  by  subsequent  happenings. 

The  Chairman.  Mr.  du  Pont,  do  you  know  who  H.  P.  Bingham  is? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not. 

The  Chairman.  Is  that  Harry  Payne  Bingham? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  could  not  tell  you. 

The  Chairman.  Harry  Payne  Bingham  happens  to  be  one  of  those 
listed  in  the  evidence  taken  yesterday,  concerning  those  with  incomes 
of  $1,000,000  or  more  per  annum  throughout  this  period.  You  do 
not  have  personal  acquaintance  with  him  to  know  whether  this  is  the 
same  Bingham? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  am  sorry  to  hear  he  is  considered  a  culprit. 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  December  10,  1917,  Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont  wrote  an- 
other letter  to  the  Secretary  of  V\"ar.  The  previous  letter  revised 
the  offer  of  the  War  Industries  Board  of  December  1. 

(The  letter  of  Dec.  10,  1917,  and  attached  i^roposal  referred  to 
were  marked  ''  Exhibit  No.  1154  "  collectively  and  are  included  in 
the  appendix  on  p.  3281.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  December  10  the  statement  is  made : 

*     *     *     6  weeks  of  valuable  time  has  already  been  lost     *     *     *. 

Over  what  issue  was  the  loss  of  time,  Mr.  du  Pont  ?  Only  on  com- 
pensation, was  it  not? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  No,  sir.  It  was  entirely  different.  Weeks 
of  valuable  time  were  lost  to  the  Government  in  getting  a  powder 
supply,  in  my  opinion. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  beg  your  pardon.  You  misunderstood  my  question. 
The  cause  of  the  loss  was  a  dispute  as  to  the  amount  of  compensation. 
That  was  the  only  thing  on  which  you  had  not  agreed? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  was  not  certain  that  was  the  case.  The  Sec- 
retary in  turning  us  down  did  not  say  that  was  the  case.  He  said 
the  American  people  were  going  to  do  it  themselves,  whether  it  cost 
more  or  less,  and  Mr.  Brookings'  opinion  certainly  substantiated 
that.  He  did  not  care  what  was  made  out  of  it,  as  long  as  there  was 
no  profit  in  it. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  du  Pont,  you  had  the  letter  of  November  26,  1917, 
from  the  War  Industries  Board,  which  made  you  an  offer  to  do  the 
job.  Why  do  you  feel  you  were  not  sure  they  wanted  you  to  do  the 
job,  although  they  had  said  so  in  writing? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  We  looked  to  the  Secretary  as  being  the  chief. 
Maybe  we  were  wrong. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  Secretary  had  turned  that  over.  Your  reply  of 
December  1  said : 

We  refuse  to  consider — 

The  company  refuses  to  consider — 

the  offer  of  the  War  Industries  Board. 

That  must  mean  that  the  Secretary  had  adopted  the  resolution  and 
had  turned  it  over  to  you  to  consider.     Js  not  that  correct? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  do  not  think  so. 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  did  not  consider  that  an  offer  that  could  be 
accepted  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Certainly,  something  could  be  negotiated.  I 
did  not  distinguish  between  what  they  said  and  what  the  Secretary 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3201 

said,  except  he  made  the  final  say,  which  did  not  jibe  with  what  they 
had  said. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  your  letter  to  the  Secretary  you  do  not  refer  to  the 
terms  of  a  prior  offer,  but  refer  specifically  to  the  offer  of  November 
26,  1917,  as  though  he  had  adopted  it,  and  you  limited  yourself  to 
addressing  yourself  to  that  particular  offer. 

On  December  10,  1917,  in  the  letter  to  which  I  have  referred,  you 
say  further : 

Yesterday  General  Crozier  requested  a  conference  at  Wilminston.  Prior  to 
his  coming  the  executive  committee  of  our  company,  Mr*.  E.  G.  Buckner  and 
myself  determined  to  ask  him  whetlier  there  is  a  general  agreement  at  Wash- 
ington that  our  company's  services  are  necessary  to  the  Government  and  whether 
we  are  right  in  supposing  that  the  question  of  compensation  is  alone  responsible 
for  the  delay. 

Was  not  that  your  then  opinion,  Mr,  du  Pont,  that  that  was  the 
only  thing  responsible  for  delay? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  We  determined  to  ask  him  whether  that  was. 
Mr.  Hiss  (reading)  : 

And  whether  we  are  right  in  supposing  that  the  question  of  compensation 
is  alone  responsible  for  the  delay. 

Do  you  not  suppose  that  the  question  of  compensation  was  alone 
responsible  for  the  delay? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  The  record  here  would  look  that  way,  but 
I  do  not  remember  back  as  to  just  the  circumstances. 

Mr.  Hiss  (continuing  reading)  : 

If  so,  we  determined  to  agree  to  submit  to  arbitration  the  disputed  question 
in  order  that  nothing  might  interfere  with  this  important  work. 

The  original  offer  was  October  25. 

Senator  Clark.  Kead  the  last  sentence  again,  Mr.  Hiss. 

Mr.  Hiss  (reading)  : 

If  so,  we  determined  to  agree  to  submit  to  arbitration  the  disputed  question 
in  order  that  nothing  might  interfere  with  this  important  work. 

That  is  9  days  after  the  refusal  to  accept  an  offer  which  involved 
as  one  term  possible  arbitration.  That  is  the  thing  which  Mr. 
Irenee  du  Pont  testified  he  thought  was  beyond  the  Government's 
authority. 

The  co])y  of  the  proposal  which  is  attached  to  "  Exhibit  No.  1154  " 
reads  as  follows: 

Whereas  it  appears  necessary  for  the  welfare  of  the  United  States  that  E.  I. 
du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  should  undertake  the  work  of  construction  and  oper- 
ation of  the  proposed  Government  factories  for  the  manufacture  of  military 
smokeless  powder  at  rate  of  1,000,000  pounds  per  day ;  and 

Whereas  this  work,  which  was  ordered  begun  by  order  of  General  Crozier 
under  date  of  October  25,  1917,  has  been  discontinued  by  telegraphic  order  of 
the  Secretary  of  War  dated  October  31,  1917 ;  and 

Whereas  the  Government  desires  continuation  of  this  work  if  the  question  of 
compensation  under  the  order  can  be  satisfactorily  arranged :  Now,  therefore, 

E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  proposes  to  accept  the  order  of  October  25, 
1917,  with  proper  allowance  for  time  already  lost — 

That  means  compensation  to  you  for  any  services  you  have  under- 
taken; is  that  correct? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  should  say  it  was  advancing  the  time  of 
compleiiion. 


3202  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Hiss  (reading)  : 

Together  with  the  modifications  thereof  suggested  in  the  proposed  form  of 
order  dated  November  19,  1917,  changed  to  provide  for  capacity  of  1,000,000 
pounds  per  day,  and  letter  of  December  1  of  B.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co. 
addressed  to  the  Board  of  War  Industries  in  reply  to  their  letter  of  November 
26,  1917.  Copy  of  these  documents  are  attached  hereto.  The  letter  of  Decem- 
ber 1  is  to  be  further  modified  so  that  the  maximum  compensation  shall  be 
15  percent  on  cost  of  manufacture  plus  10  percent  on  cost  of  construction. 
*  *  *  All  of  these  modifications  are  embodied  in  the  suggested  form  of 
order  dated  December  11. 

You  will  note  that  this  letter  is  dated  December  10,  so  that  the 
attached  draft  was  dated  a  day  ahead  of  time,  and  I  assume  was  a 
draft  intended  for  use  the  following  day.     Is  that  correct  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Just  a  moment.  You  said  all  of  these  modi- 
fications are  included? 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  was  reading  from  your  proposal,  Mr.  du  Pont,  at 
the  tojD  of  page  2  of  your  proposal : 

All  of  these  modifications  are  embodied  in  the  suggested  form  of  order  dated 
December  11,  1917. 

I  show  you  a  copy  of  that  as  received  from  the  files  of  the  War 
Department.  I  have  compared  this  draft  of  December  11  with  the 
November  19  draft,  which  has  previously  been  offered  in  evidence, 
and  find  that  in  substance  the  two  are  identical,  except  that  this 
provides  in  paragraph  11  for  $900,000  compensation  a  month  instead 
of  $450,000  a  month  in  the  event  of  termination  prior  to  6  months 
from  the  date  of  the  agreement — 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Is  not  that  because  of  the  increase  of  the 
size  of  the  plant? 

Mr.  Hiss.  It  may  be. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  The  original  plant  was  a  $500,000  plant. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  have  no  doubt  that  is  correct. 

(The  order  of  Dec.  11,  1917,  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No. 
1155  ",  and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3283.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  that  the  price  of  481^  cents  is  specifically  stated.  It 
is  the  cost  for  air-dried  powder,  in  paragraph  No.  10. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  For  air-dried  or  water-dried? 

Mr.  Hiss.  For  air-dried.     The  water-dried  was  already  in. 

And  that  a  new  paragraph  was  inserted  providing  a  maximum 
compensation  of  15  percent  of  cost  of  operation.  You  will  find  that 
at  paragraph  15,  the  15  percent  of  cost  of.  operation  and  10  percent 
of  cost  of  construction,  less  6i/o  percent  when  the  cost  of  operation 
exceeds  the  Qy^  percent.  In  other  words,  that  was  to  be  reimbursed 
to  the  Government  so  that  a  maximum  of  6l^  percent  would  be  paid 
if  operation  continued  long  enough. 

Now,  will  you  please  explain  to  me  what  this  offer  to  arbitrate 
means,  when  you  state  that  it  must  be  subject  to  the  letters  that 
you  have  referred  to,  and  that  their  modifications  are  embodied  in 
the  suggested  form  of  order?  How  does  this  differ  from  the  offer 
you  had  already  made?  I  call  your  attention  particularl}^  to  the 
next  paragraph. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  could  not  tell  you  without  examining  it. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Mr.  Secretary,  you  are  going  so  fast  on  these 
things — remember,  these  things  are  15  or  16  years  old.  You  are 
flashing  one  letter  after  another;  before  we  can  even  read  through 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  3203 

it  you  are  off  on  something  else.  If  you  are  trying  to  get  informa- 
tion from  me,  you  are  approaching  it  in  sucli  a  way  that  I  cannot 
give  information.  I  think  we  need  to  study  these  things  and  find 
out  what  you  are  driving  at.  You  reel  these  things  off  so  fast  I 
cannot  follow  you. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  was  asking  that  particular  question  of  Mr.  Pierre  du 
Pont.     I  am  sorry. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  am  quite  sure  he  is  in  the  same  position. 

ISIr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  am  in  that  position  with  respect  to  this 
letter. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Will  you  please  refer  to  the  last  paragraph  on  the  last 
page  of  the  proposition,  not  of  the  draft  of  December  11,  I  think 
you  will  find  the  gist  of  the  whole  thing  in  there.  I  must  say  I 
am  unable  to  understand  what  your  offer  to  arbitrate  meant. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  can  only  make  a  guess  on  that.  I  have  not 
the  least  recollection  what  it  meant.  But  as  I  have  reviewed  the 
subject,  it  was  evidently  an  attempt  to  arbitrate  the  question  of 
whether  certain  outlay  was  to  be  mcluded  as  an  expense  or  was  to  be 
part  of  the  compensation.  This  whole  contention  arose  over  the 
question  as  to  whether  out-of-pocket  expenses,  which  we  had,  we 
thought,  clearly  shown  would  occur,  should  be  considered  as  profit  or 
not.  Naturally,  the  company  would  make  no  profit  from  the  out-of- 
pocket  expenses.  The  Secretary  continually  claimed  that  we  did 
make  a  profit  of  15  percent  regardless  of  the  fact  that  most  of  that 
was  dissipated  in  necessary  expenses.  It  was  that  character  of  thing, 
I  imagine,  that  was  to  be  arbitrated. 

Mr.  Hiss.  It  was  not  an  offer,  in  your  opinion,  to  arbitrate  all 
question  of  compensation? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  really  do  not  know,  but  I  do  not  think  so. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  can  say  that  I  find  it  very  difficult  to  understand  just 
what  the  proposition  is.     It  is  not  very  clearly  stated. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  The  controversy  was  over  what  was  con- 
sidered expense  and  what  was  considered  profit  in  the  15  percent. 
That  was  the  question  at  issue  right  through.  I  think  that  this 
related  to  those  questions. 

Senator  Clark.  Did  I  understand  you  to  say  that  most  of  the 
15  percent  was  dissipated  in  out-of-pocket  expenses? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  is  the  way  we  put  it  up  in  our  original 
letter. 

Senator  Clark.  I  understood  it  was  said  that  would  be  a  net  profit 
of  10  percent  out  of  the  15? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes;  we  put  it  there;  but  in  the  same  10 
l^ercent  we  realized  that  a  great  deal  might  be  in  jeopardy  over 
this  question  of  what  was  profit  and  what  was  not.  From  his 
own  definition  of  profit,  the  Secretary  considered  the  expenses 
of  our  engineering  department  in  promoting  freight  as  part 
of  the  profit.  It  is  clearly  out-of-pocket  expense  in  sending  men  out 
all  over  the  country  to  look  after  the  freight  coming  in,  to  make  sure 
it  was  delivered  in  time.  But  the  Secretary  evidently  included  that 
in  the  profit.  I  think  it  was  because  he  did  not  clearly  understand 
the  situation.  He  had  thousands  of  things  on  his  mind  at  the  time. 
I  am  not  surprised  he  did  not  take  it  in.  But  that  was  a  fact  as  far 
as  we  were  concerned. 


3204  MuisriTiONS  industry 

Mr,  Irenee  du  Pont.  Mr.  Chairman,  on  this  arbitration,  I  have 
had  time  to  read  this  letter.  Is  it  not  perfectly  clear  that  this  arbi- 
tration would  be  in  advance  of  signing  the  contract  to  arbitrate 
what  is  a  fair  contract  ?  The  arbitration  referred  to  by  Daniel  Wil- 
lard  was  to  do  the  job,  spend  maybe  tens  of  millions  of  dollars,  and 
then  be  in  a  position,  having  been  bust,  to  go  to  the  Government  to 
arbitrate  on  what  we  ought  to  get  for  it  and  what  was  expense  and 
what  we  ought  to  absorb.  I  think  one  is  arbitration  before  we 
signed  the  contract  and  the  other  is  an  arbitration  to  determine  what 
was  fair  after  the  contract  was  done.  I  do  not  think  any  prudent 
man  ought  to  be  asked  to  put  up  enormous  sums  of  money  and  then 
have  them  arbitrate  whether  he  had  done  it  right  and  what  com- 
pensation he  ought  to  have. 

Senator  Vandexberg.  Were  you  putting  up  enormous  sums  of 
money  under  any  of  these  agreements  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  According  to  Mr.  Brookings'  thing,  we 
might  be  hooked  for  any  amount  of  money. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Underlying  the  whole  proposition,  is  it  not 
Government  money  that  is  at  risk  and  not  your  own  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know.  He  did  not  say  anything 
about  the  Government  putting  up  the  money  and  using  that.  Even 
if  they  did,  how  much  of  it  might  we  be  hooked  for  ? 

Senator  Vandeberg.  Is  not  the  theory  of  the  entire  negotiation 
that  the  Government  is  funding  the  investment  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  There  is  nothing  said  about  it  in  Mr.  Wil- 
lard's  letter  at  all.  Presumably  they  would  have  to.  We  did  not 
have  the  funds  to  do  it  at  all.  But  he  wanted  to  suggest  instead  of 
having  a  contract  that  we  go  ahead  and  do  it  without  any  arrange- 
ment and  arbitrate  it  after  the  fact.  This,  as  I  read  it,  arbitrates  in 
advance  of  the  contract  what  a  fair  contract  would  be. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Where  do  you  find  that.  Mr.  du  Pont  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  The  context  indicates  that. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Which  part  of  the  context? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  This  i^art  of  "  Exhibit  No.  1154  "  you  have 
just  read.     [Reading:] 

In  accepting  this  order  we  agree  that  all  questions  of  compensation  to  our 
company  for  service  to  be  rendered  both  in  construction  and  operation  of  the 
factories  shall  be  referred  to  a  board  of  arbitration  of  three  members,  one  to 
be  appointed  by  the  Secretary  of  War — 

and  so  forth. 

Mr.  Hiss.  How  would  you  phrase  it?  Wouldn't  you  enter  into  an 
order,  begin  work  immediately,  and  arbitrate  the  question  of  com- 
pensation while  you  were  carrying  out  the  contract  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  We  had  that  only  on  an  advance  of  a  million 
dollars  or  these  other  figures. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Where  is  that? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  This  letter  from  Mr.  Willard. 

Mr.  Hiss.  But  Mr.  du  Pont,  the  attached  form  which  you  are 
willing  to  submit  to  arbitration  has  no  mention  of  the  million- 
dollar  advance  in  it. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  That  is  what  I  say. 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  were  ^xot  addressing  yourself  to  the  million-dollar 
advance  ? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3205 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  No.  But  you  asked  me  how  we  would  state 
it  if  we  wanted  to  arbitrate  after  the  building.  I  say  we  would 
refer  to  that. 

Mr.  Hiss.  May  I  call  your  attention  to  the  draft  of  December  11? 
Under  section  6  of  that  draft,  which  was  entered  as  "  Exhibit  No. 
1155  "— 

the  Government  will  pay  directly  or  \Yill  reimburse  you  for  all  cost  incurred 
in  the  construction  of  the  plants : 

(a)  There  shall  be  included  as  a  part  of  the  construction  cost  and  paid  to 
you  a  sum  equal  to  1%  percent  of  all  disbursements. 

(b)  There  shall  also  be  included  as  a  part  of  the  construction  cost  a  sum 
equal  to  QV^  percent  of  all  disbursements. 

That  first  one  w^as  to  be  used  by  way  of  bonuses.  The  second  was 
payment  to  you.  That  paragraph  is  excluded  from  the  offer  to 
refer  certain  paragraphs  to  arbitration.  In  other  w^ords,  you  agree 
that  you  would  be  paid  6I/3  percent  of  the  construction  cost  and 
additional  compensation  to  be  arbitrated.  Have  you  ever  partici- 
pated in  arbitration  proceedings,  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Not  with  the  United  States  Government ;  no, 
sir. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Have  you  ever  participated  in  any  arbitration  pro- 
ceeding ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  presume  I  have. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Of  this  magnitude  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  No. 

Mr.  Hiss.  How  long  do  you  think  it  would  take  to  have  an  aw\ard 
conferred  and  handed  down  in  such  a  matter  as  this  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  would  say  if  three  men  could  not  get 
together 

Mv.  Hiss.  Would  it  not  take  months  of  preparation  for  argument 
before  a  board  of  arbitrators  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  would  according  to  the  way  a  lawyer 
would  go  at  it,  but  I  should  think  that  three  business  men  getting 
together  could  decide  on  a  contract,  that  would  be  fair. 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  had  not  been  able  to,  from  October  25  to  De- 
cember 10. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  The  trouble  was  we  were  not  dealing  with 
business  men.    We  were  dealing  with  the  Government. 

Senator  Clark.  Dan  Willard  was  a  pretty  good  business  man. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  He  may  be  an  excellent  business  man.  So 
were  all  the  others.  But  when  you  get  into  the  machinery  of  gov- 
ernment, you  get  into  all  sorts  of  details,  as  we  found. 

Senator  Clark.  You  mean  they  lose  their  business  sense? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Not  necessarily, 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Mr.  Secretary,  picture  this:  Supposing  the 
war  had  suddenly  ended  during  the  course  of  construction,  we  would 
have  made  numerous  contracts  and  commitments  and  then 

The  CiiAiR:srAN.  What  vfould  those  commitments  and  contracts 
amount  to.  at  the  outside? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  have  not  the  slightest  idea,  all  depending 
on  when  they  occurred.  If  we  had  ordered  materials  ahead  in  pros- 
pect of  full  operation  on  the  representation  of  the  Government  reim- 
bursing us,  and  they  had  suddenly  said,  "  Shut  down  ",  and  refused 
to  pay,  w^e  would  have  been  out  on  quite  a  limb.    We  could  not 


3206  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

have  made  payments.  The  Government  might  refuse  the  money 
to  us  and  not  help  us  any.  We  know  that  on  this  final  contract 
which  was  executed  and  operated,  after  the  war  was  ended  and 
everything  was  shut  down,  it  took  us  8  years  to  get  a  settlement  of 
that  contract,  with  very  few,  comparatively,  things  to  be  settled. 

If  that  had  occurred  during  construction,  with  the  money  paid 
out  by  us,  I  do  not  know  hoAv  long  it  would  have  taken. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Is  there  any  of  your  own  capital  at  risk 
in  any  of  these  propositions? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  so,  on  a  proposition  such  as  this, 
because  we  made  the  commitments  with  the  contractors  for  materials 
and  everything  else.  The  Government  was  to  reimburse  us.  But  if 
the  Government  had  not  reimbursed  us,  we  were  in  a  very  bad  fix. 
We  know  from  our  experience  with  the  Government  when  the  final 
transaction  was  liquidated  that  it  took  8  years  for  them  to  settle  up 
with  us. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  But  the  theory  of  of  the  procedure  was  that 
it  was  not  your  capital  at  risk ;  am  I  wrong  about  that  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know  what  your  theory  is.  My 
theory  is 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  say,  the  theory  of  these  negotiations  is 
that  the  Government  is  going  to  hold  you  harmless  against  loss. 
That  is  the  theoiy  of  the  negotiations,  is  it  not? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes;  but  the  practice  of  such  things  is  so 
at  variance  with  theory  that  I  do  not  think  any  reasonable  man 
would  undertake  such  a  contract.  As  it  turned  out  in  the  end,  I 
think  the  contract  was  very  much  better  written,  because  the  Govern- 
ment's reimbursement  was  much  more  prompt  than  expressed  in  this 
last  statement  that  the  Government  will  pay  directly  or  reimburse 
you. 

The  Chairman.  Mr.  du  Pont,  why  would  you  object  to  anyone 
appointed  on  the  board  of  arbitration  on  this  proposition  being  con- 
nected with  the  Government,  an  officer  of  the  Government? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  do  not  remember  that  I  put  that  in.  I  do 
not  remember  that  I  had  any  objection. 

The  Chairman.  The  proposition  says  this  [reading  from  "  Exhibit 
No.  1154  "]  : 

No  arbitrator  shall  be  an  officer  of  or  a  person  receiving  compensation  from 
the  United  States  Government,  or  an  officer,  employee,  or  stockholder  of  E.  I. 
du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  both  are  proper  provisions.  I  can- 
not see  any  impropriety  in  it. 

The  Chairman.  Perhaps  not,  but  it  rather  impressed  me  that  you 
were  putting  yourselves  quite  on  a  par  with  the  Government  as  re- 
spected the  ultimate  disposal  of  the  proposition. 

J\Ir.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  it  is  customary  in  any  arbitration 
that  the  two  sides  shall  not  be  represented  in  the  arbitration. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont,  do  you  still  say  that  in  your  opinion 
this  offer  to  arbitrate  was  an  offer  to  arbitrate  before  signing  a  con- 
tract rather  than 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  ask  you  if  that  was  not  very  clear  from 
the  context. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  said  that  it  certainly  did  not  seem  clear  to  me.  I  am 
asking  you  if  you  still  think  it  is  clear  to  you. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3207 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  should  say  that  is  what  the  intent  was.  It 
looks  like  it.     I  do  not  recall  it. 

Mr.  Hiss.  A  formal  arbitration  before  a  board 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  What  do  you  mean  by  "  a  formal  arbitra- 
tion "  ?  If  you  mean  one  strung  out  for  months,  no ;  it  would  not  be 
worked ;  could  not  be  worked. 

INIr.  Hiss.  The  reference  in  your  proposal  is  that  there  is  to  be — 

a  board  of  arbitration  of  three  members,  one  to  be  appointed  by  the  Secretary 
of  War  and  one  by  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co. ;  the  third  to  be  appointed 
by  the  two  arbitrators  so  chosen ;  no  arbitrator  to  be  an  ofiicer  of,  or  person 
receiving  compensation  from  the  United  States  Government,  or  an  officer,  em- 
ployee, or  stoclvholder  of  E.  I.  dn  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  These  arbitrators 
shall  have  placed  before  them  this  letter  and  the  documents  attached  hereto 
and  shall  determine  the  compensation  due  our  company  in  view  of  the  services 
to  be  rendered  and  in  view  of  the  compensation  provided  in  similar  contracts 
now  being  entered  into  by  the  departments  of  the  United  States  Government. 
The  board  of  arbitration  will  be  furnished  such  additional  data  as  may  be 
needed  for  reaching  a  conclusion.  Their  decision  shall  state  the  comi>ensation 
to  be  provided  by  paragraphs  10,  11,  13,  and  15  of  the  suggested  form  of  order 
dated  December  11,  1917,  and  shall  be  final  and  binding  on  both  parties. 

Does  not  that  seem  to  you  a  formal  statement  of  a  formal  arbi- 
tration ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  will  not  quarrel  with  you  over  the  "  for- 
mal "  but  I  will  ask  you,  can  you  conceive  that  that  was  to  be  deter- 
mined at  the  close  of  the  w^ar,  at  the  finish  of  the  construction  of 
this  plant,  or  currently?  We  give  them  currently  these  things.  We 
are  negotiating  with  them.  Say  what  is  fair;  that  is  what  it  says. 
And  that  is  why  I  say  it  must  have  been  intended  to  be,  "  arbitrate 
when  you  are  writing  a  contract  what  you  are  going  to  put  in." 
Certainly  it  is  not  the  intention  to  wait  until  the  thing  is  completed 
and  find  out  after  the  fact  what  is  a  fair  compensation, 

Mr.  Hiss.  If  you  are  going  to  be  bound  to  go  ahead  with  the  price 
fixed,  what  difference  w^ould  it  make  whether  they  settle  it  before  you 
start  or  after  you  start? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  think  it  makes  a  great  deal  of  difference. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Mr.  Chairman,  I  think  you  are  arguing  at 
cross  purposes,  because  I  do  not  agree  with  my  brother.  How  can 
the  three  of  us  agree? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  There  is  nothing  new  in  that. 

The  Chairman.  The  committee  will  be  in  recess  until  2  o'clock. 

(Thereupon,  at  12: 15  p.  m.,  a  recess  was  taken  until  2  p.  m.  of  the 
same  day.) 

afternoon  session 

(The  committee  met  pursuant  to  recess  at  2  p.  m.) 

TESTIMONY  OF  IRENEE  DTI  PONT,  PIERRE  DU  PONT,  C.  T.  HARRIS, 
W.  S.  GREGG,  J.  B.  ELIASON,  AND  A.  C.  NIELSEN— Resumed 

The  Chairman.  The  committee  will  be  in  order. 

Mr.  Hiss,  before  you  proceed,  I  should  like  to  have  the  record 
cleared  as  respects  the  matter  of  Mr.  Bingham,  whose  case  was 
referred  to  this  morning.  Mr.  Bingham,  who  came  into  evidence  as 
secretary  of  the  War  Industries  Board — was  that  it  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  correct. 


3208  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

•  The  Chairman.  Mr.  Bingham,  who  came  into  evidence  as  secre- 
tary  of  the  War  Industries  Board,  was  the  Henry  Payne  Bingham 
who  appears  as  one  of  those  enjoying  incomes  during  tlie  war  period 
of  more  tlian  a  million  dollars  a  year.  Incidentally,  his  service  as 
secretary  of  the  Board  was  on  the  $l-a-year  basis.  The  committee 
has  been  unable  to  ascertain  the  business  connections  of  Mr.  Bingham, 
but  will  during  the  course  of  its  study  so  ascertain. 

You  may  proceed,  Mr.  Hiss. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  have  been  furnished  with  a  memorandum  from  the 
War  Department  as  to  the  total  advances  shown  by  the  records  of 
the  War  Credits  Board  and  other  advances  authorized  by  the  Secre- 
tary of  War.  I  assume  that  all  these  are  limited  to  w^ar-time 
advances  ? 

Is  that  correct.  Colonel? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  will  offer  this  as  an  exhibit. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1156  " 
and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3286.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  will  call  attention  to  the  fact  appearing  from  this  ex- 
hibit that  contractors  for  the  Quartermaster  Corps  had  advanced  to 
them  through  the  War  Credits  Board  $19,000,000;  that  contractors 
of  the  Signal  Corps,  which  included  the  purchases  for  the  Air  Corps, 
had  advanced  through  tiie  War  Credits  Board  $53,000,000 ;  and  that 
contractors  of  the  Ordnance  Department,  as  stated  yesterday,  had 
advanced  to  them  $174,000,000. 

In  addition,  the  Secretary  of  War  authorized  $4,000,000  for  ad- 
vances relating  to  contracts  for  the  Signal  Corps,  $17,000,000  addi- 
tional for  similar  contracts  of  the  Quartermaster  Corps,  and  $84,- 
000,000  in  connection  with  contracts  of  the  Ordnance  Department. 

Colonel  Harris  has  also  answered  the  question  that  was  put  yes- 
terday as  to  whether  the  letter  of  AjDril  27,  1917,  showing  that  it 
had  been  prepared  for  the  signature  of  the  chairman  of  the  General 
Munitions  Board,  which  stated  that  50  cents  a  pound  for  .30-caliber 
powder  for  water-dried,  62  cents  for  air-dried,  471/2  cents  for  cannon 
powder  for  water-dried,  50  cents  for  air-dried,  and  50  cents  for  sea- 
coast  cannon  powder  for  air-dried  were  fair  prices,  was  actually 
signed  by  the  chairman  of  the  General  Munitions  Board.  Colonel 
Harris  has  brought  to  the  hearing  the  original  files  of  the  Ordnance 
Department  on  this  matter,  and  they  show  a  carbon  copy  of  the 
letter  sent  to  the  Ordnance  Department  at  the  time  the  letter  went 
out. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Mr.  Hiss,  may  I  ask  on  that  question  of  ad- 
vances. Does  that  show  the  balance  outstanding  at  any  particular 
time  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  think  this  is  total  advances  for  the  war  period. 

Is  that  correct.  Colonel  Harris? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Yes. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  But  those  amounts  were  not  outstanding  at 
any  time,  even  the  single  items  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  do  not  know  that  that  appears. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  There  is  nothing  to  show  what  balance  is 
outstanding  in  any  of  these  accounts  at  any  time,  is  there  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  No. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3209 

ISIr.  Pierre  du  Poxt,  Therefore  there  may  have  been  a  very  much 
smaller  balance  outstanding^,  the  rest  having  been  accounted  for  by 
vouchers  showing  expenditures. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Colonel  Harris,  was  the  Old  Hickory  contract  the 
largest  construction  contract  undertaken  by  the  Government  during 
the  war? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  am  not  prepared  to  say  about  the 
Government.    It  was  the  largest  by  the  War  Department. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  largest  by  the  War  Department? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  AVas  it  the  largest  contract  of  any  kind ;  that  is,  includ- 
ing purchase  as  well  as  construction,  undertaken  by  the  War  Depart- 
ment during  the  war?  ^ 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  believe  it  was, 

Mr.  Hiss.  Could  you  verify  that? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  can;  yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont,  in  selling  to  the  Allies,  did  you 
sell  direct  or  was  there  a  purchasing  agent  in  this  country  who  pur- 
chased for  some  or  all  of  the  Allies? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  believe  a  great  many  of  the  contracts  were 
made  through  Morgan  &  Co. 

Mr.  Hiss.  As  purchasing  agents  for  some  of  your  customers? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  was  for  the  British  and  French  Gov- 
ernments.   I  do  not  know  what  relation  there  was. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Do  you  know  what  proportion  of  the  total  sales  of  your 
company  of  powder  to  England  and  to  France  went  through 
Morgan  &  Co.  ?  - 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  haven't  it  in  mind,  I  think  we  have  a 
record  of  it. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr,  Eliason? 

Mr.  Eliason.  I  have  not  anything  definite  on  it  at  all.  We  can 
supply  the  record  for  j'ou. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Will  you  please  do  so? 

Mr.  Eliason.  Yes, 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  du  Pont,  in  negotiating  for  contract  sales  abroad, 
did  you  conduct  negotiations  as  well  as  enter  into  formal  contracts 
with  Morgan  &  Co.  at  times? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Morgan  &  Co.,  as  agents  for  the  British 
Government,  for  instance,  came  to  us  with  their  requirements  and 
negotiations  were  entered  that  way. 

Mr,  Hiss,  Were  they  authorized  or  did  they  carry  out  negotia- 
tions on  price  and  such  matters  with  you,  or  did  they  simply  place 
orders  ? 

Mr,  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  was  not  in  direct  contact  with  that,  but  my 
recollection  is  that  they  negotiated  and  placed  the  order. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Do  you  know  which  members  of  the  firm  of  Morgan  & 
Co.  or  what  representatives  of  Morgan  &  Co.  dealt  with  you  most 
frequently  in  that  connection? 

1  Colonel  Harris  later  verified  this. 

-  Under  date  of  Dec.  18,  1934,  the  du  Pont  Co.  informed  the  committee  that  the  total 
sales  value  of  contracts  with  the  British  and  French  Governments  aggregated  $490,573,806. 
Of  these  sales,  J.  P.  Morgan  &  Co.  acted  as  agent,  under  sales  contracts  aggregating 
$351,259,813.28.  The  sales  made  through  Morgan  &  Co.  accounted  for  71. (iO  iMTcciit  of 
the  total  military  business  done  with  the  British  and  French  Governments  during  the 
war. 


3210  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  No  ;  I  could  not  say. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Is  there  anyone  from  your  company  who  knows? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  could  answer  that.    Edward  Stettinius. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Stettinius? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  My  impression  is  that  the  earlier  contracts 
were  negotiated  by  representatives  of  the  governments  sent  over 
here,  and  the  Morgan  arrangement  was  made  later,  but  I  could  not 
tell  you  what  date.^ 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Eliason,  will  you  furnish  that  data  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  The  contracts  will  show  who  they  were 
signed  by. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Colonel  Harris,  was  the  proposed  contract  at  Charles- 
ton, W.  Va.,  finally  awarded  to  a  company  other  than  the  du  Pont 
Co.? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  It  was. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Do  you  remember  the  name  of  the  company? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  think  it  was  Thompson  Starrett; 
but  after  looking  up  this  other  Starrett  name,  it  has  gotten  me  con- 
fused. I  can  answer  the  question  you  asked  me  this  morning, 
however. 

Mr.  Hiss.  You, have  documents  here  with  which  to  check  up? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  You  asked  who  Mr.  Graham  was  this 
morning. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Yes. 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  have  that  in  my  records,  and  a  little 
later  on  I  can  tell  you.^ 

Mr.  Hiss.  All  right,  sir. 

I  will  offer  this  next  document,  dated  December  12,  1917,  a  letter 
from  the  Secretary  of  War,  for  appropriate  marking. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1157  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3286.) 

secretary  of  war  notified  du  PONT  CO.  THAT  NEGOTIATIONS  WERE 

CLOSED 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  December  12,  1917,  the  Secretary  of  War  replied  to 
the  letter  of  December  10,  which  we  have  discussed  before,  stating 
that: 

On  the  10th  clay  of  December  Mr.  Pierre  S.  du  Pont  and  Mr.  Buckner  pre- 
sented to  me  your  letter  of  that  date  with  regard  to  the  question  of  manu- 
facturing smokeless  powder  and  the  creation  of  additional  capacity  therefor. 
Prior  to  December  10  this  matter  had  been  under  consideration  between  your 
company  and  the  War  Department,  a  full  history  of  our  conferences  and  cor- 
I'esiwndence  appearing  in  the  papers,  of  which  both  your  company  and  the 
Government  have  copies. 

After  the  receipt  of  the  letter  from  your  company  definitely  declining  to 
accept  a  proposition  from  the  Government  as  formulated  in  the  suggestion  of 
the  War  Industries  Board  and  pi-esented  by  me  to  your  company 

That  indicates,  Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont,  that  the  Secretary  of  War  had 
adopted  the  letter  of  the  War  Industries  Board  as  his  offer  as  well 
as  their  offer,  or  as  Avell  as  their  recommendation.    Does  that  refresh 

1  Under  date  of  Apr.  19,  1035,  the  du  Pont  Co.  informed  the  committee  that  their 
lefords  indicate  tliat  tlie  first  contract  on  wliich  J.  P.  Morgan  &  Co.  acted  as  agents  was 
dated  Feb.  17,  1915,  and  they  continued  to  act  In  this  capacity  until  June  30,  1917. 

2  Footnote,   p.   3185. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3211 

3'oiir  memory  on  that  particular  point,  on  which  you  were  uncertain 
this  morning? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  It  appears  so ;  yes. 

Mr.  Hiss  (continuing)  : 

the  War  Department  proceeded  to  work  out  a  plan  for  the  direct  creation  of 
this  capacity  by  the  Government  itself.  I  therefore  notified  Mr.  du  Font  and 
Mr.  Buckner  on  December  10  that  the  question  would  not  be  reopened,  and 
that  the  Government  would  proceed  directly  in  the  matter.  I  then  assured 
Mr.  du  Pont  of  my  great  appreciation  of  tlie  generous  willingness  expressed 
by  your  company  to  aid  the  Government  in  its  undertaking. 

On  December  15,  191T  the  Secretary  of  War  appointed  Mr.  Jack- 
ling  to  take  charge  of  the  problem  relating  to  the  building  and 
operating  of  new  powder  plants,  which  is  in  the  form  of  a  letter 
from  the  Secretary  to  Mr.  Jackling  which  I  offer  for  appropriate 
marking. 

(The  document  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  1158"  and 
aj^jDcars  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  letter  of  appointment  reads  as  follows: 

In  appointing  you  to  build  and  operate  the  proposed  new  Government 
powder  plants,  I  wish  to  say  that  you  will  be  given  an  entirely  free  hand  and 
full  authority  in  the  matter,  except  where  it  is  necessary  for  legal  reasons  that 
you  conform  to  certain  Government  methods,  such  for  instance  as  Government 
terms  of  accounting,  which  must  be  followed. 

I  am  pleased  to  acknowledge  your  acceptance  of  this  work,  with  the  under- 
standing, first,  that  there  will  be  no  compensation  or  merely  a  nominal  one  to 
you,  and  with  the  understanding  also  that  you  will  be  at  liberty,  when  neces- 
sity requires,  to  return  to  the  West  occasionally  to  keep  in  touch  with  your 
regular  professional  and  business  pursuits. 

Do  you  know  what  Mr.  Jackling's  regular  professional  and  busi- 
ness pursuits  had  been  up  to  this  time,  Mr.  du  Pont  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  He  was  connected  with,  I  think,  the  Utah 
Copper  Co.,  but  I  do  not  know  exactly  in  what  capacity. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Had  he  had  any  experience  in  the  manufacture  of 
powder  or  explosives,  so  far  as  you  know  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Not  that  I  know  of ;  no. 

Mr.  Hiss  (continuing)  : 

I  do  understand,  however,  that  you  will  give  to  the  business  here  under 
discussion  all  of  the  time  necessary  to  supervise  effectively  its  organization 
and  progress  and  to  complete  it  in  the  most  expeditious  and  satisfactory  way. 

That  is  December  15,  and  on  January  11  you  wrote  another  letter 
to  Secretary  Baker,  which  I  will  offer  for  appropriate  exhibit  mark- 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  1159"  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3287.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  Referring  in  the  first  sentence  to  General  Crozier's 
order  of  October  25,  referred  to  in  the  Secretary's  telegram  of  Octo- 
ber 31,  you  then  state : 

This  order  calls  for  transactions  estimated  at  $325,000,000,  covering  a  period 
of  over  2  years  and  is  probably  one  of  the  largest  orders  ever  given  by  the 
United  States  Government. 

As  we  understand  that  the  Department  is  ready  to  compensate  us  for  actual 
expenditures  to  date  under  this  order,  a  statement  of  this  account  will  be  sent 
to  you  in  a  few  days. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Do  you  mind  reading  between  there  ?  "  the 
cancelation  of  the  order." 

83876—35 — pt  14 4 


3212  MUiSriTioNS  industry 

Mr.  Hiss.  Shall  I  read  it,  sir,  or  would  you  like  to  read  it? 
Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  As  you  wish.     Shall  I  read  it? 

Cancelation  of  the  order  calls  for  a  payment  of  $900,000  per  month  and  pro- 
portionately for  days  elapsing  between  the  date  of  order  and  the  date  of  can- 
celation. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  time  elapsing  between  October  25  and  October  31 
would  be  approximately  6  days;  is  that  correct? 
Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont  : 

Whatever  may  be  due  our  company  under  this  provision  of  the  order  we  make 
no  claim  for  payment,  as  relief  from  the  burden  of  the  order  is  worth  much  to 
this  company,  even  under  its  proposed  compensation. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  actual  time  elapsing  to  which  you  refer,  between 
the  date  of  the  order  and  the  date  of  the  cancelation,  would  be  6  days, 
wouldn't  it? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Whatever  it  is. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Which  should  be  one-fifth  of  the  proposed  compensation 
per  month,  or  $180,000. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Colonel  Harris,  do  you  know  whether  the  Chief  of  Ord- 
nance had  authority  to  enter  into  contracts  without  the  approval  of 
the  Secretary  of  War  at  this  time  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  The  Chief  of  Ordnance  had  authority 
to  enter  into  contracts,  but  he  operates  under  the  supervision  of  the 
Secretary  of  War,  so  I  cannot  answer  your  question  definitely. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Would  you  understand  the  order  of  October  25,  1917,  as 
a  binding  obligation  on  the  Government  of  the  United  States? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  would. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  You  note  that  this  letter  is  evidently  to 
make  a  final  disposition  of  the  matter,  for  it  says  further : 

Abrogation  of  the  order  is  not  referred  to  in  your  letter  of  December  12,  1917, 
nor  in  any  other  correspondence.  We  will  greatly  appreciate  formal  notice 
of  abrogation,  as  it  would  seem  fitting  to  so  formally  close  the  transaction. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  other  words,  at  that  period  you  considered  that  that 
contract  was  abrogated  and  negotiations  were  definitely  concluded 
and  you  wished  a  formal  acknowledgment  to  that  effect? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes ;  and  we  received  that  later,  I  believe. 

Mr,  Hiss.  Under  date  of  January  12  you  received  a  letter  from  the 
Secretary  of  War,  Mr.  du  Pont,  which  I  will  ask  to  have  marked  Avith 
the  appropriate  exhibit  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  1160",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3287.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  Secretary  of  War  says  in  this  letter : 

I  have  just  received  your  letter  of  the  11th,  and  have  referred  it  to  The 
Assistant  Secretary — 

Do  you  know  who  The  Assistant  Secretary  was  to  whom  that  wa^ 
referred.  Colonel  Harris? 
Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  It  should  be  Mr.  Crowell. 
Mr.  Hiss  (continuing)  : 

as  the  powder  matter  is  now  under  his  immediate  supervision. 

Were  there  other  Assistant  Secretaries  during  that  time  ? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3213 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  am  not  sure  whether  there  was  at 
that  time.     There  were  later.     I  will  verify  that.^ 
Mr.  Hiss.  This  is  January  12^  1918. 
Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Yes. 
Mr.  Hiss  (continuing)  : 

and  I  want  liim  to  prepare  the  formal  letter  to  wliicti  you  refer  with  the  papers 
in  the  case  before  him. 

The  next  document  I  have  here  I  would  like  to  have  marked  with 
the  appropriate  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1161  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3288.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  January  16,  1918,  4  days  after  the  Secretary's  letter 
and  just  a  month  after  the  Secretary  had  appointed  Mr.  Jackling • 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Might  I  go  back  there,  Mr.  Hiss,  to  that 
original  letter? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Which  letter  is  that? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  January  11,  addressed  to  the  Secretary. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Yes. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  There  are  two  subjects  embodied  there,  and 
we  have  only  treated  of  one,  and  apparently,  to  his  mind,  judging 
from  his  opinion,  the  second  subject  was  possibly  the  more  important. 
I  say  in  the  letter  of  January  11,  "Exhibit  No.  1159": 

May  I  also  call  attention  to  the  enclosed  clipping  from  today's  New  York 
Times.  Erroneous  conclusions  may  l>e  drawn  from  this  statement.  The  profit 
of  from  twenty  to  forty  million  was  not  obtainable  from  the  ninety-million- 
dollar  investment  in  factories  but  from  the  construction  and  operation  con- 
tract, amounting  to  three  hundred  and  twenty-five  millions,  of  which  the  larger 
sum  of  $40,000,000  represented  12.3  percent ;  the  smaller,  6.16  percent  only. 
Reference  to  our  offer  to  limit  profits  to  10  percent  plus  a  further  maximum 
addition  of  5  percent  based  on  equal  divisions  of  reduction  of  cost  of  operation 
and  the  final  order  to  arbitrate  th.e  question  of  compensation  would  have  more 
fairly  repre.sented  the  final  condition  of  the  negotiations.  However,  our  com- 
pany is  not  disposed  to  enter  into  any  argument  or  public  discussion,  and  we 
do  not  ask  correction  of  the  statement  above  mentioned. 

The  Secretary  deals  with  that  in  this  way  in  "  Exhibit  No.  1160  " : 

I  am  writing  this  only  to  say  that  the  extract  from  the  New  York  Times 
which  you  enclose,  and  upon  which  you  comment,  is  not  an  adequate  repre- 
sentation of  my  testimony  on  the  subject  before  the  Senate  committee.  I  have 
not  a  copy  of  the  testimony,  but  it  will  be  out  shortly,  and  you  will  then 
see  that  I  have  dealt  with  the  utmost  candor  and  fairness  with  the  negotia- 
tions between  your  company  and  the  War  Department. 

That  apparently  was  the  Secretary's  chief  reason  for  answering. 
That  is  why  I  call  attention  to  it. 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  remember,  you  specifically  asked  for  formal  notice 
of  cancelation. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  To  clean  up  the  matter. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  January  16  you  wrote  to  Secretary  Baker — this  is 
4  days  after  his  letter  announcing  he  had  referred  the  matter  to  The 
Assistant  Secretary — asking  him  to  prepare  a  formal  letter  definitely 
concluding  the  negotiations,  and  1  month  after  Mr.  Jackling  had 

1  For  list  of  Assistant  Secretaries  of  War  in  1918  see  Hearings,  Part  XV,  p.  3541. 


3214  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

been  appointed  to  handle  the  operation  of  new  Government  powder 
plants,  under  the  Secretary's  decision  not  to  continue  further  nego- 
tiations with  your  company. 

Your  letter  to  Secretary  Baker,  of  January  16,  "Exhibit  No.  1161  ", 

says: 

Mr.  D.  C.  Jackling  has  requested  nie  to  negotiate  with  him  concerning  work 
to  be  done  in  connection  with  the  proposed  military  powder  factories  of  the 
United  States  Government.  I  hesitate  to  enter  these  negotiations  without  your 
consent  lest  such  intrusion  might  be  misunderstood  or  prove  objectionable.  If 
E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  can  be  of  further  service  to  the  United  States 
Government,  I  should  like  to  be  assured  of  Mr.  Jackling's  authority  and  of 
your  consent  to  negotiations. 

You  remember  the  Secretary's  letter  to  you  of  December  12,  "  Ex- 
hibit No.  1157",  said  that— 

The  War  Department  proceeded  to  work  out  a  plan  for  the  direct  creation 
of  this  capacity  by  the  Government  itself.  I  therefore  notified  Mr.  du  Pont 
and  Mr.  Buckner  on  December  10  that  the  question  would  not  be  reopened  and 
that  the  Government  would  proceed  directly  in  the  matter. 

On  January  19,  1918,  Mr.  Baker  replied  to  you  that  Mr.  Jackling 
had  full  authoritj^  to  discuss  and  negotiate  with  you  in  regard  to  any 
work  in  connection  with  the  proposed  military  powder  factories  of 
the  Government. 

That  will  be  offered  as  the  next  exhibit. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1162  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3288.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  will  offer  for  the  record  also  excerpts  from  a  meeting 
of  the  War  Industries  Board  on  January  25,  1918. 

(The  excerpts  from  meeting  referred  to  were  marked  "  Exhibit 
No.  1163  ",  and  are  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3288.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  January  25,  1918,  the  War  Industries  Board  dis- 
cussed a  contract  with  the  du  Pont  Co.  for  the  design,  construction, 
and  operation  of  a  plant  at  Nashville,  Tenn.,  for  the  production  of 
smokeless  powder : 

Mr.  Baruch  submitted  for  the  information  of  the  Board  memorandum  of 
understanding  between  Mr.  Jackling,  Mr.  MacGowen,  Major  Mudd  on  behalf  of 
the  Government,  and  Mr.  P.  S.  du  Pont  and  Col.  E.  G.  Buckner  on  behalf  of 
the  du  Pont  Co.,  dated  January  24,  1918,  regarding  the  proposed  arrangement 
with  the  du  Pont  Co.  for  the  design,  construction,  and  operation  of  the  above 
plant. 

In  other  words,  once  the  Secretary  had  determined  that  the  Gov- 
ernment should  build  the  plant  itself,  negotiations  for  the  building 
of  the  plant  with  your  aid  proceeded  much  more  swiftly  than  they 
had  before;  is  that  correct,  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  No  ;  I  think  the  first  negotiations  were  the 
quickest  of  all.  We  made  a.  proposition  overnight  which  was  in  the 
course  of  2  or  3  days  translated  into  a  definite  order. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  mean  after  the  stay  order  of  the  Secretarj'^,  Mr.  Baker, 
negotiations  did  not  proceed  very  swiftly  until  immediately  after  the 
Secretary  had  announced  that  the  Government  would  proceed  itself. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Not  immediately  aft^r.  That  announcement 
was  in  December,  was  it  not,  and  this  is  January. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  formal  notice  did  not  come  to  you — that  is,  the 
formal  notice  of  revocation  or  the  Government's  cessation  of  nego- 
tiations, had  not  come  to  you  but  was  ex]:)ected  by  you  4  daj^s  before 
you  Avrote  that  Mr.  Jackling  had  approached  you;  isn't  that  correct? 


MuisriTioisrs  industry  •  3215 

Mv.  Pierre  du  Pont.  No  ;  I  think  not.  Was  not  the  definite  notice 
in  December  or  the  appointment  of  Mr.  Jackling,  that  the  Govern- 
ment was  going  to  do  the  work  itself  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Jackling's  name  is  not  mentioned  at  that  time. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  "No  ;  but  Jackling  was  appointed  on  Decem- 
ber 15. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  correct. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Now,  he  took  charge  of  the  whole  thing. 
That  is  definite.  But  I  thought  before — Decmber  12,  yes;  the 
Secretary  says  to  us — 

The  War  Department  proceeded  to  work  out  a  plan  for  the  direct  creation  of 
this  capacity  by  the  Government  itself. 

Mr.  Hiss.  What  does  "direct  creation  itself  ",  in  your  opinion, 
mean,  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  do  not  know  what  he  meant.  I  haven't  the 
least  idea. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Did  j^ou  think  it  meant  that  the  War  Department  would 
itself  take  charge  of  the  building  and  supervise  it? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  have  not  the  least  idea  what  he  meant, 
because  the  War  Department  could  not  get  to  work  without  making 
the  preparation. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  To  be  perfectly  clear,  he  did  not  mean  that 
the  du  Pont  Co.  was  going  to  do  it. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Pie  did  not  mean  the  du  Ponts  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  That  is  what  it  looks  like,  certainly. 

formal   contract   executed    shortly   after  resumption   of 

negotiations 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  January  29  an  agreement  was  entered  into  between 
the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  and  the  United  States,  approved  by  the 
Secretary  of  War.  This  contract  is  stated  to  be  between  the  du  Pont 
Engineering  Co.  and  the  United  States  of  America,  by  the  Brigadier 
General  of  the  Quartermaster  Corps. 

The  letter  from  Mr.  Jackling  to  the  Secretary  of  War  enclosing 
the  contract  and  the  contract  are  offered  as  exhibits. 

(The  letter  and  contract  referred  to  were  marked  "  Exhibits  Nos. 
1164  and  1165 ",  respectively,  and  are  included  in  the  appendix 
on  pp.  3288  and  3289.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  the  second  page  of  this  contract,  article  1,  it  reads : 

The  construction  manager — 

By  which  is  meant  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co. — 

will  engage  as  the  sole  agent  of  the  United  States  of  America  in  the  creation, 
construction,  and  operation  of  the  plant  hereinbefore  described,  and  in  consid- 
eration of  the  fee  of  $500,000  to  be  paid  to  it  as  provided  in  article  7  hereof 
in  sections  (a),  (b),  (c),  and  (fZ),  agrees  to  procure  from  the  E.  I.  du  Pont 
de  Nemours  &  Co. — 

1.  The  disposal  for  the  purposes  of  the  party  of  the  second  part  exclusively 
for  the  Nashville  plant,  of  the  said  company's  experiences,  records,  and  plans 
appertaining  to  the  production  of  smokeless  powder  of  the  kinds  and  quantities 
herein  referred  to. 

And  in  carrying  out  the  job  of  building  and  operating  a  plant 
capable  of  producing  500,000  pounds  of  powder  per  dsij — this  ap- 


3216  •  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

pears  at  the  top  of  page  3 — the  description  that  follows  on  page  3  as 
to  the  type  of  plant  is  substantially  that  described  in  the  October 
25,  1917,  order;  in  other  words,  an  up-to-date  powder  plant. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Article  IV 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  we  did  include  a  railroad,  but  it  is 
not  very  material. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Article  IV,  page  4  [reading,  "  Exhibit  No.  1165  "] : 

United  States  of  America  shall  bear  the  entire  cost  of  the  designing  and 
construction  of  said  plant  and  will  supply  all  the  money  necessary  therefor  in 
such  amounts  and  in  such  manner  as  to  allow  the  activities  with  respect  to 
the  designing  and  construction  of  the  plant  to  proceed  without  delay  or  inter- 
ruption. To  make  the  above  effective,  a  disbursing  officer  or  officers  shall  be 
appointed  by  the  contracting  officer,  who  shall  be  provided  vs^ith  the  necessary 
funds  to  meet  all  payments  as  due  upon  presentation  by  the  construction  man- 
ager of  bills  approved  by  the  special  director.  The  responsil)ility  of  the  dis- 
bxirsing  officer  shall  extend  only  to  the  ascertainment  that  bills,  vouchers,  or 
statements  submitted  for  payment  have  been  properly  certiiied  and  approved 
by  the  special  director  or  his  duly  authorized  representative  or  successors. 

Article  VII  [reading]  : 

As  full  compensation  for  the  services  of  the  construction  manager — 

that  is  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co. — 

herein  provided  to  be  employed  for  the  designing  and  erecting  of  said  plant, 
the  United  States  of  America  shall,  in  addition  to  the  costs  of  the  work,  labor, 
and  materials  herein  provided  for,  make  payments  to  the  construction  manager 
as  follows : 

(a)  At  such  time  as  in  the  judgment  of  the  special  director  25  percent  of  the 
work  to  be  done  in  designing  and  preparing  the  plans  for  "  the  plant "  shall 
have  been  completed,  the  United  States  of  America  shall  pay  to  the  construction 
manager  the  sum  of  $125,000. 

Then,  paragraph   (h)   provides  for  a  later  sum  of  $125,000  and 
(c)  and  (d)  each  $125,000,  or  a  total  of  $500,000. 
Clause  (/),  page  7,  reads: 

In  addition  to  the  foregoing  fees,  the  construction  manager  shall  be  paid  as 
compensation  for  designing  and  constructing  the  plant  as  herein  provided  3 
percent  on  the  total  cost  of  the  construction  of  the  plant,  the  same  to  be  paid 
proportionately  and  monthly  as  the  work  progresses.  Such  monthly  payments 
shall  be  based  upon  estimates  made  by  the  construction  manager  and  approved 
by  the  special  director.  The  total  compensation  to  be  paid  under  this  para- 
graph marked  "  /  "  shall  be  limited  to  a  maximum  of  $1,500,000. 

Article  IX  reads : 

The  United  States  of  America  shall  hold  harmless  the  construction  manager 
from  any  and  all  loss  by  accident,  fire,  flood,  or  otherwise — 

And  so  forth. 
Article  X  reads: 

The  United  States  of  America  will  pay  all  costs  of  whatsoever  nature 
incurred  in  the  operation  of  the  plant  and  will  in  addition  pay  to  the  construc- 
tion manager  for  operating  said  plant  the  sum  of  314  cents  per  pound  for  all 
smokeless  powder  delivered  and  accepted. 

There  is  a  further  provision,  which  has  been  in  the  earlier  drafts, 
that  in  the  evem  of  the  powder  costing  less  than  441/2  cents  a  pound, 
half  of  the  saving  will  go  to  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co. 

Clause  (e) ,  on  page  10,  reads : 

It  is  understood  and  agreed  that  the  construction  manager  shall  operate 
the  plant  for  the  equivalent  of  6  months  at  its  full  capacity     *     *     *^ 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3217 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Could  I  just  call  your  attention,  Mr.  Secre- 
tary, to  the  prices  put  in  here?  You  are  discussing  the  cost  of  raw 
materials.  The  current  price  is  listed  of  nitrate  of  soda,  4.11  cents, 
compared  to  Indian  Head  price  of  2.11  cents;  and  the  price  of  alcohol 
is  down  here  at  12.459  cents,  practically  121/2  cents,  compared  to  61/2 
cents  in  tliat  other  estimate  of  the  Navy. 

As  compared  with  here  the  figure  is  1.35  against  1.1,  I  think,  in 
theirs,  but  that  is  not  very  material.  We  have  linters  here  at  5.25, 
and  I  do  not  know  how  they  would  compare  with  their  purified 
linters  which  they  had  in  their  cost. 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  mean,  Mr.  du  Pont,  you  were  not  able  to  get  the 
same  prices  on  articles  that  the  Government  was  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  No  ;  I  said  that  the  Navy,  in  making  up  an 
estimate  of  31  cents  for  cost  of  powder,  were  erroneous  because 
they  used  prices  which  were  not  available  on  raw  materials. 

Mr.  Hiss.  They  were  supposed  to  be  costs  which  they  were  paying. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  No  ;  the  costs  which  they  had  paid  some  time 
before. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Article  XX  reads : 

The  construction  manager  shall  furnish  to  the  United  States  of  America 
within  10  days  after  the  execution  and  delivery  of  this  agreement  a  performance 
bond  in  the  sum  of  $250,000,  conditioned  for  tlie  full  and  faithful  performance 
of  this  contract. 

Does  that  seem  to  you  an  adequate  bond  for  an  undertaking  which 
you  estimated  might  come  to  $300,000,000,  Mr.  du  Pont  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  It  is  not  for  me  to  say.  It  was  evidently 
sufficient  in  the  eyes  of  the  Government  at  the  time. 

(The  bond  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1166  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3296.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  premium  of  such  bond,  according  to  the  last  sen- 
tence, was  to  be  charged  to  the  cost  of  the  work.  The  bonding 
company  was  the  Delaware  Surety,  of  which  Mr.  Laffey,  general 
counsel  of  the  company,  was  president.  Are  you  familiar  with  the 
Delaware  Surety  Co.  ?  ^ 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  No;  I  remember  now  the  name  of  it,  but  I 
do  not  know  anything  about  its  capitalization  or  anything  else,  and 
I  do  not  remember  the  conditions  under  which  that  was  formed. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Is  this  the  final  contract  under  which  the 
work  now  proceeds  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  No ;  it  started 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  contract  did  proceed  for  several  months  under  this 
contract.  A  later  contract  was  entered  into,  March  29,  and  we  will 
take  that  up  right  now,  sir. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  would  like  to  ask,  then,  Mr.  du  Pont,  under 
this  contract,  were  there  any  capital  risks  on  your  part? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  think  the  situation  was  somewhat  improved 
over  the  original  contract,  in  that  the  approval  of  Mr.  Jackling  on 
vouchers,  and  so  forth,  definitely  committed  the  Government  in  a 
way  that  we  did  not  have  before,  but  I  am  not  certain  of  the  details 
of  that. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Speaking  generally,  would  it  be  fair  to  say 
that  there  is  no  capital  risk  in  this  contract  on  your  company? 

1  Statement  of  assets  and  liabilities  of  the  Delaware  Surety  Co.  was  entered  as 
"  Exhibit   No.   1214  ",   see   Hearings,   Part  XV,   p.    3578. 


3218  MUNiTioisrs  industry 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  am  not  sure  that  there  would  be.  I  would 
have  to  think  over  the  matter.  I  have  never  had  the  question  put 
to  me  before,  and  I  have  not  thought  of  it  in  that  light. 

Mr.  PIiss.  There  is  a  $5,000  investment  in  the  company,  which  was 
certainly  a  risk. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Answering  your  question  the  way  you  want 
it  answered,  we  did  not  put  any  capital  in  the  du  Pont  Engineering 
Co.  except  $5,000,  but  I  am  sure  that  this  contract  had  a  guaranty 
by  the  du  Pont  Co.,  or  on  the  $250,000  bond,  and  running  over 
hastily  I  have  not  found  it. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  do  not  find  it  in  this  contract,  but  it  may  be  there. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  would  like  to  point  out  one  essential 
difference  in  it : 

The  original  contract  in  October  contemplated  that  E.  I.  du  Pont 
de  Nemours  &  Co.  would  undertake  the  contract  with  the  right  to 
organize  this  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  That  part  of  it  was  not 
thought  out.  It  was  just  something  in  the  air.  In  order  to  take 
care  of  what  are  ordinarily  called  overhead  expenses,  such  as  pur- 
chasing-department expenses  and  administrative,  which  were  in- 
included  in  the  15  percent  commission  originally,  the  du  Pont  Co. 
would  have  had  to  segregate  its  expenditures,  allotting  a  certain  per- 
centage to  this  contract  and  a  certain  percentage  to  its  own  business. 
There  was  no  way  of  making  a  complete  segregation  on  the  com- 
pany's own  books.  It  was  a  matter  to  be  determined  and,  of  course, 
indefinite  and  open  to  a  great  deal  of  discussion. 

In  this  new  contract  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  had  been  defi- 
nitely thought  out,  and  it  was  decided  that  the  du  Pont  Engineering 
Co.  should  take  the  very  forces  that  had  been  in  the  du  Pont  Co. 
They  then  became  the  forces  of  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.,  and 
their  expenses,  salaries,  traveling  expenses,  and  everything  of  that 
kind  were  definite,  because  they  were  in  a  separate  company,  and 
there  was  no  need  of  a  division  then  between  du  Pont  expenditures 
and  du  Pont  Engineering  expenditures,  except  to  a  very  limited 
degree,  which  was  accounted  properly  by  bills  between  the  two 
comi^anies,  approved  by  Government  officials. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  The  thing  I  am  trying  to  get  at  is  whether 
the  basic  fiscal  risk  is  not  entirely  that  of  the  Government. 

Mr.  Gregg.  That  is  correct.  Senator.  Article  IV  of  the  contract 
provides  [reading  "  Exhibit  No.  1165  "]  : 

United  States  of  America  shall  bear  the  entire  cost  of  the  <lesi,gning  and  con- 
struction of  said  plant,  and  will  supply  all  the  money  necessary  therefor  in 
such  amounts  and  in  such  manner  as  to  allow  the  activities  with  respect  to  the 
designing  and  construction  of  the  plant  to  proceed  without  delay  or  interruption. 

Now,  of  course,  as  to  when  the  Government  was  going  to  supply 
the  money,  the  contract  does  not  state.  All  it  states  is  that  the  Gov- 
ernment will  supi3ly  the  money  necessary  to  allow  the  activities  with 
respect  to  the  design  and  construction  of  the  plant  to  proceed  without 
delay  or  interruption. 

That  article  then  further  provides  [reading]  : 

To  make  the  above  effective  a  disbursing  officer,  or  officers,  shall  be  appointed 
by  the  contracting  officer,  who  shall  be  provided  with  the  necessary  funds  to 
meet  all  payments  as  due  upon  presentation  by  the  construction  manager  of 
bills  approved  by  the  special  director. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3219 

Now,  then,  if  dii  Pont  Enf^ineerinf]^  Co.  made  an  expenditure  and 
submitted  a  bill  which  was  disapproved  by  the  special  director,  then 
the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  would  be  out  the  amount  of  that  bill, 
or,  in  other  words,  would  have  to  ]5roceed  with  it  in  some  other  way. 
[Continuing  reading :] 

The  responsibility  of  the  disbursing  officer  shall  extend  only  to  the  ascertain- 
ment that  bills,  vouchers,  or  statements  submitted  for  payment  have  been 
properly  certified  as  approved  by  the  special  director  or  his  duly  authorized 
representatives  or  successors. 

So  that  it  is  the  responsibility,  under  that  article,  of  an  expendi- 
ture being  made  by  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  which,  when  sub- 
mitted for  payment  or  for  the  approval  by  the  special  director,  the 
special  director  might  disapprove  that  bill  and,  if  the  expenditure 
had  already  been  made  by  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.,  they 
would  be  out  that  amount  of  money. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Could  that  decision  be  wholly  arbitrary, 
or  would  it  have  to  be  justified  ? 

Mr.  Gregg.  It  would  be  left  to  the  discretion  of  the  special  director, 
and  if  he  said,  "  I  disapprove  that  bill  ",  then  under  the  contract 
the  only  recourse  for  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  would  be  to  pro- 
ceed through  the  courts  to  endeavor  to  recover  it. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Again  using  the  language  which  I  used  this 
morning,  so  far  as  the  theory  of  the  arrangement  was  concerned,  the 
Government  was  wholly  financing  it  and  indemnified  you  against 
any  capital  loss? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  was,  I  think,  the  theory,  and  our  in- 
tent ;  but  it  did  not  remove  the  capital  risk,  which  might  be  very 
considerable. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  The  capital  risk  was  utterly  limited,  as  com- 
pared to  the  capital  risk  if  you  had  been  operating  the  whole  thing 
yourself? 

INIr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  There  is  no  doubt  of  that ;  yes. 

The  Chairman.  What  was  the  actual  capital  risk  in  it  ?  Let  us  get 
that  clearly  in  mind.    Was  it  more  than  the  $5,000? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes,  indeed.  Supposing  the  du  Pont  Co.,  in 
very  good  faith,  had  entered  into  a  considerable  subsidiary  contract, 
with  the  almost  certainty  they  had  in  their  mind  that  the  director 
would  approve  the  contract,  and  the  du  Pont  Co.  had  been  committed 
to  it,  or  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.,  and  the  director  had  refused 
to  O.  K.  that  contract,  Avhatever  responsibility  there  was  on  the 
part  of  the  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.,  on  the  bond,  and  of  the 
du  Pont  Engineering  Co.,  was  in  jeopardy. 

I  am  not  sure  that  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  had  any  re- 
sponsibility on  this  or  not.  I  have  not  had  opportunity  to  look  at  it 
now,  and  I  am  not  sure  whether  they  guaranteed  that  contract  or  not. 
But  it  would  seem  to  me  that  the  bond  of  du  Pont  Engineering  Co. 
must  have  had  some  value,  and  I  would  want  to  look  into  it  before  I 
would  say  there  was  no  responsibility. 

Mr.  Gregg.  Even  with  reference  to  your  statement.  Senator,  as  to 
whether  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  assumed  any  capital  risk  under 
this  contract,  I  might  say — I  must  say,  to  be  specific,  at  this  point — 
that  under  the  contract  which  subsequently  followed  and  took  the 
place  of  this  contract,  and  which  w^as  broader  than  this  contract,  a 
number  of  items  and  expenditures  by  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  were 


3220  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

disallowed;  in  other  words,  to  the  extent  of  a  little  over  $300,000, 
and  there  were  several  items  that  had  to  be  threshed  over,  and  some 
of  them  went  to  the  Attorney  General  for  opinion  and  some  of  them 
were  allowed  by  the  Attorney  General,  but  in  the  final  wind-up — 
that  takes  in,  however,  all  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  contracts, 
when  I  speak  of  the  $300,000,  because  all  the  contracts  were  along 
the  same  line — there  were  expenditures  by  du  Pont  Engineering  Co. 
amounting  to  a  little  over  $300,000,  which  were  finally  disallovv^ed  by 
the  Government. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  And  how  much  of  that  $300,000  was  at  Old 
Hickory  ? 

Mr.  Gregg.  The  greater  part  of  it,  Senator,  I  would  say,  was  at 
Old  Hickory. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Let  us  go  to  the  final  contract. 

AMENDED  CONTRACT  EXECUTED   3   MONTHS  LATER 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  final  contract  was  the  March  23,  1918,  contract,  a 
copy  of  which  I  offer  in  evidence,  was  it  not,  Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  March  23 ;  yes,  sir. 

(The  letter  of  transmittal  from  the  Chief  of  Procurement  Division 
to  the  Acting  Chief  of  Ordnance  enclosing  the  final  contract  was 
marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1167  "  and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on 
p.  3297.) 

(The  contract  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1168  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3297.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  Under  that  contract  you  ceased  to  be  an  agent 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Why  was  this  contract  substituted  for  the 
other  one? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Will  you  explain  why  this  contract  was  adopted  in  place 
of  tile  other  one,  Mr.  du  Pont? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  was  going  to  try  to  find  my  record  on  that 
so  I  would  not  have  to  rely  on  a  poor  memory. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Perhaps,  if  we  bring  out  some  of  the  differences,  that 
may  show  it,  Mr.  du  Pont.  The  capacity  of  the  plant  is  increased 
from  400,000  or  500,000  pounds  in  January  1918  to  900,000  pounds 
of  smokeless  powder  a  day.     That  appears  at  page  2  of  the  contract. 

In  addition,  the  payment  of  a  fee  for  construction,  as  such,  was 
eliminated,  and  a  provision  was  made  that  a  fee  of  $1  should  be  paid 
for  construction,  all  costs  to  be  paid  by  the  United  States.  The 
United  States  agreed  to  advance  $18,974,000  immediately ;  I  beg  your 
pardon,  $18,750,000. 

Mr.  Gregg.  $18,750,000. 

Mr.  Hiss  (continuing).  For  construction  purposes  and  to  advance 
$18,954,000  for  production.  So  that  there  was  no  question  of  finan- 
cial strain  in  the  sense  of  making  the  purchases  and  acquisitions  in 
this  contract  as  opposed  to  the  January  contract. 

Mr.  GrtKGG.  Senator,  an-wering  vour  qucs-tion  as  to  the  reason  why 
this  contract  took  the  place  of  the  January  contract :  I  was  connected 
with  the  matter  at  that  time — Mr.  du  Pont  may  have  some  additional 
reasons,  however — but,  as  I  understood  it,  at  that  time  the  real  reason 
for  the  March  23  contract  taking  the  place  of  the  January  contract 
was  because  under  the  contract  of  January  29,  1918,  Mr.  Jackling, 


MUl!^ITIONS    INDUSTRY  3221 

as  special  director,  under  article  III,  could  do  this.     Article  III  of 
the  contract  of  January  29  provides  [reading]  : 

The  special  director  may  from  time  to  time  by  written  instructions  issued 
to  the  construction  manager  order  changes  in  drawings  and  specifications, 
issue  additional  instructions  requiring  additional  work,  or  direct  the  work 
l)re\iously  ordered,  and  the  provisions  of  this  contract  shall  apply  to  all  such 
changes,  modifications,  and  additions,  with  the  same  effect  as  if  they  were 
embodied  in  the  original  drawings  and  specifications. 

It  was  my  understanding  at  that  time  that  the  work  of  construct- 
ing the  plant  was  being  delayed  due  to  the  fact  that  the  du  Pont 
Engineering  Co.  had  to  submit  to  Mr.  Jackling,  whose  offices  were 
located  over  in  New  York,  all  drawings  and  specihcations  for 
approval  before  we  could  go  ahead  with  the  work,  and  that  all  pay 
roiis  had  to  be  approved  by  Mr.  Jackling.  Various  other  things 
had  to  be  approved  by  Mr.  Jackling,  and  thau  this  necessarily  re- 
sulted in  holding  up  the  work,  and  that  the  progress  was  not  being 
made  that  the  du  Pont  Co.  felt  should  be  made. 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  that  matter  was  taken  up  with  the  War  De- 
partment and,  as  I  recall  it,  with  the  Secretary  of  War,  all  of  which 
was  submitted  to  him,  and  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  submitted 
a  proposal  to  the  Secretary  of  War  in  order  to  expedite  the  work 
of  construction  that  if  the  War  Department  would  give  the  du 
Pont  Engineering  Co.  a  contract  under  which  it  could  proceed  in 
its  own  way  in  the  construction  of  the  plant,  without  all  these  de- 
lays in  getting  approval  of  plans  and  specifications,  that  the  du 
Pont  Engineering  Co.  would  be  willing  to  construct  the  plant  for 
cost  plus  $1. 

In  constructing  the  plant  for  cost  plus  $1,  of  course,  there  would 
be  nothing  in  the  construction  of  the  plant,  no  profit  out  of  which 
the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  could  reimburse  itself  for  any  losses 
that  it  might  incur,  any  bills  that  might  be  disapproved. 

And  that  it  was  also  requested  by  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co. 
that  the  contract  provide  for  an  advance  payment  to  be  used  as  a 
revolving  fund  during  the  construction  of  the  plant. 

In  other  words,  that  the  Government  would  advance  $18,750,000, 
and  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  would  go  ahead  and  purchase 
the  materials  and  proceed  with  the  work,  bills  would  be  rendered 
to  the  Government  disbursement  officers  who  were  located  at  the 
plant,  and  were  also  located  in  Wilmington.  When  those  payment? 
would  come  due,  then  they  would  check  the  receipted  materials, 
check  the  bills,  and,  if  they  found  the  bills  to  be  proper,  they  would 
reimburse  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  for  those  amounts. 

So  that  this  advance  payment  of  $18,750,000  during  the  progress 
of  the  work  was  used  as  a  revolving  fund  to  carry  on  the  work. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont,  I  show  you  a  recapitulation  state- 
ment as  to  the  operations  of  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.,  Govern- 
ment contracts,  as  of  September  1,  1925,  which  I  offer  for  the  record. 

(The  document  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1169  "  and 
is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3310.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  Under  the  first  column  you  will  see  that  a  total  of 
advances  for  the  construction  of  Old  Hickory  of  $18,875,000  had 
been  made,  or  were  made.  This  is,  of  course,  after  the  contract, 
which  has  just  been  put  in  evidence.  Total  advances  for  operaticffij 
Old  Hickory,  $18,954,000. 


3222  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Over  to  the  extreme  right,  total  on  all  Government  contracts. 
$45,334,629.87. 

Furthermore,  the  United  States  reimbursed  the  du  Pont  Co.  for 
expenditures  in  connection  with  construction,  $66,000,000;  in  con- 
nection with  operation,  $6,466,000 — these  both  refer  to  Old  Hickorv — 
a  total  on  all  contracts  of  $87,738,000. 

Senator  Clark.  That  was  the  amount  which  was  actually  spent  at 
Old  Hickory? 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  total  amount  actually  spent  at  Old  Hickory  was 
$84,973,000  on  construction,  and  on  operation  $25,420,000. 

Mr.  Gregg.  Where  do  you  get  the  $87,000,000  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  the  total  on  all  contracts,  total  reimbursed. 

Mr.  Gregg.  Total  reimbursed  on  all  contracts. 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  addition  to  Old  Hickory,  this  exhibit  shows  four 
other  contracts — Penniman,  Tullytown,  Seven  Pines,  and  Ives. 

The  total  amount  expended  by  the  United  States  in  the  form  of 
advances  or  reimbursements  on  all  those  contracts  was  $133,073,000. 

PROFITS  OF  DU  PONT  FOR  CONSTRUCTION  AND  OPERATION  OF  OLD  HICKORY 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  du  Pont,  I  show  you  a  statement  prepared  by  your 
company  as  to  the  profits  made  by  your  company  in  connection  with 
the  construction  and  operation  of  Old  Hickory,  which  I  ask  be 
appropriately  numbered. 

(The  document  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1170  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3312.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  Avill  note  that  you  list  as  profits  on  Old  Hickory 
construction  the  sum  of  $1,  on  Old  Hickory  operation  $1,961,000, 

On  that  basis  of  $1,961,000,  the  percent  of  return  on  the  original 
$5,000  investment  was  39,231  percent. 

I\Ir.  Nielsen.  As  I  sa3%  I  think  3-011  should  take  into  consideration 
the  $200,000  worth  of  disallowed  expense  applying  against  Old  Hick- 
oiy,  for  which  we  were  not  reimbursed,  and  that  is  before  taxes  also. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Mr.  Hiss,  you  remarked  a  while  ago  that  the 
capital  risk  in  this  thing  was  the  Government's,  and  that  the  $5,000 
put  up  v/as  the  nominal  capital  of  ourselves,  and  had  nothing  to  do 
with  this  work. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  did  not  say  that.  I  said  it  was  only  $5,000  out  of  a 
total  of  many  millions. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  You  do  not  undertake  to  say  this  has  a  rela- 
tion to  the  $5,000  capital  of  the  du  Pont  Co.  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Were  not  the  profits  of  Old  Hickory  stated  in  the  form 
of  dividends  to  the  du  Pont  Co.  ? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  presume  so,  but  I  do  not  know.  I  do  not 
think  it  changes  the  question  at  all. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  du  Pont,  I  would  like  to  call  your  attention  to  the 
minutes  of  the  engineering  company,  shoAving  the  amount  of  divi- 
dends declared  to  the  holders  of  the  stock.  Practically  all  the  stock, 
except  for  qualif^dng  shares,  was  held  by  the  du  Pont  parent  com- 
pany.    Is  that  correct? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Gregg.  May  I  make  a  statement,  or  do  you  want  to  go  ahead? 

Mr.  Hiss.  May  I  finish  this  point  ? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Go  ahead. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3223 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  December  31,  1919 — when  Avas  the  Old  Hickory  con- 
struction ceased?  Do  3^011  remember,  Mr.  du  Pont?  When  did  you 
cease  construction  and  operation  at  Old  Hickory? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  The  construction  was  not  completed  at  the 
time  of  the  armistice. 

jNIr.  Hiss.  Do  you  remember  when  jou  turned  the  plant  over  to 
the  Government? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  do  not  remember  the  exact  date.  It  must 
have  been  in  the  latter  j)art  of  1918. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Gregg,  do  you  know  the  time  when  the  Old  Hickory 
plant  was  turned  over  to  the  Government  after  the  armistice  by  the 
company  ? 

Mr.  Gregg.  April  17,  1919. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Between  April  and  December  of  1919,  do  you  know 
what  business,  other  than  Government  business,  the  du  Pont  En- 
gineering Co.  carried  out? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Mr.  du  Pont  can  explain  that  better  than  I  can. 

Mr.  Nielsen.  We  had  an  earlier  contract  with  General  Motors  to 
do  some  construction  w^ork  in  1919. 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  December  31,  1919,  according  to  the  directors'  min- 
utes of  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.,  dividends  of  $80  a  share  were 
declared.  The  original  subscrij)tion  of  the  stock  had  been  $1  a 
share. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Mr.  Secretary  if  we  had  organized  that  com- 
pany w4th  only  $1,000  capital,  then  I  suppose  we  w^ould  have  made 
five  times  as  much  on  the  investment.  I  think  we  made  a  bad  mistake 
in  overcapitalizing  it. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Mr.  Hiss,  you  surely  cannot  mean  a  state- 
ment of  that  kind  to  go  into  the  record  as  meaning  anything. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont,  are  you  familiar  with  the  subcon- 
tract of  the  Mason  &  Hangar  firm? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Let  us  finish  this  subject  first. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  am  sorry.    I  thought  we  had  finished. 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  have  a  question  I  want  to  ask. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Gregg. 

Mr.  Gregg.  Mr.  Hiss  mentioned  a  total  payment  under  all  these 
du  Pont  Engineering  contracts  of  $133,073,323.23.  Of  that  amount, 
$4,128,441.35  was  returned  to  the  Government  prior  to  the  time  of 
final  settlement.  In  other  words,  the  total  cost  of  the  work  under  all 
of  these  five  contracts  was  $129,535,541.06. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  would  like  to  pursue  the  subject  a  bit  fur- 
ther, because  I  do  not  want  a  ridiculous  statement  of  that  kind  to  go 
into  the  record  and  be  spread  broadcast  all  over  the  United  States, 
because  the  people  of  the  United  States  are  without  the  benefit  of 
this  discussion. 

My  brother  has  just  handed  me  a  question,  asking  what  the  per- 
centage of  return  on  a  physician's  services  would  be  for  a  physician's 
services.  He  has  no  capital  invested  at  all.  His  services  would  re- 
turn an  infinitely  great  percentage  on  investment,  even  if  he  charged 
only  one  fee  in  a  year. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Now^  you  are  getting  back  to  the  precise 
thing  I  was  trying  to  establish  a  while  ago,  that  this  is  a  service  con- 
tract and  does  not  involve  a  financial  risk. 


3224  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  involves  a  financial  risk,  but  it  does  not 
give  a  capital  return  on  the  investment.    That  is  a  fiction. 

Senator  Vaxdenberg.  There  is  no  fi.nancial  risk  as  compared 
with 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  We  have  just  found  there  were  $300,000  loss 
on  it. 

Senator  Vandexberg.  Out  of  $1,900,000  return? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  That  is  pretty  heavy,  and  we  might  have 
gotten  hurt  worse.  This  latter  contract  is  much  clearer  in  its  state- 
ment of  what  must  be  paid  and  what  must  not  be,  and  which  was 
extra  compensation  paid  the  men  in  the  construction,  and  was  not 
covered  in  the  operation  because  they  did  not  allow  it. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  The  point  is  you  are  now  arguing  the  precise 
thing  I  was  trying  to  settle  for  my  own  satisfaction  originally, 
namely,  that  this  was  not  a  capital  operation,  but  that  it  was  a  service 
fee  essentially. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  It  was. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  A  service  fee  with  financial  responsibility 
for  the  account. 

Senator  Vaxdenberg.  I  said  limited.  Mr.  du  Pont. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Poxt.  I  am  not  so  sure  of  that,  because  the  same 
disallowances  might  have  amounted  to  $100,000  times  as  much.  We 
did  not  know.  Expenses  were  so  arbitrarily  thrown  out.  They  were 
just  thrown  out.  There  was  no  question  about  the  $300,000  having 
been  expended  on  the  plant  as  being  in  that  category  of  expenditure, 
as  we  made  on  our  own  plant. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  If  there  had  been  anj'  seriously  unfair  chal- 
lenge to  your  accounts,  you  could  have  taken  them  into  court  for 
review,  could  you  not  ? 

Mr.  Gregg.  That  is  correct. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes ;  but  we  have  not  infinite  wisdom  in  such 
things.  There  might  have  been  some  quirk  of  a  legal  phrase  that 
we  did  not  know  anything  about  that  might  have  disbarred  us. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  fully  understand  that,  and  I  fulh^  ac- 
knowledge the  existence  of  a  collateral  liability  which,  it  seems  to 
me,  compared  with  the  whole  show  is  exceedingly  limited  in  prospect, 
leaving  us  at  the  point  where  my  mind  started  this  morning,  namely, 
that  3^our  entire  negotiation  is  primarily  for  a  service  fee  rather 
than  for  a  capital  return.     Is  not  that  a  fair  statement? 

Mr.  Gregg.  With  the  possibility  that  you  will  get  reimbursement 
for  all  the  expenditures  that  you  have  incurred  and  with  the  pos- 
sibility that  if  you  went  through  the  courts,  the  courts  would  allow 
you  all  the  expenditures  that  you  had  incurred.  You  are  taking 
that  chance.  Senator? 

Senator  Vandenberg.  I  think  that  is  so. 

Mr.  Gregg.  May  I  make  one  more  remark,  please?  I  would  like 
to  clear  this  up  at  this  point  in  the  record. 

In  addition  to  the  $4,128,441.35  that  we  had  previously  returned 
to  the  Government  prior  to  the  date  of  final  settlement,  which  was 
October  31,  1925,  we  returned  to  the  Government  at  the  time  of  final 
settlement,  in  addition  to  this  figure  of  $352,840.35 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Gregg,  may  I  interrupt  you  at  that  point?  Did 
not  that  settlement  involve  all  construction  contracts  or  pending 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3225 

claims  on  powder  contracts  of  the  clii  Pont  American  Industries 
for  cotton  linters? 

Mr.  Gregg.  No;  not  this  settlement.  This  settlement  had  nothing 
to  do  with  du  Pont  American  Industries. 

Mr.  Hiss.  What  items  were  involved  in  the  October  1925  settlement 
other  than  the  construction  accounts? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Just  these  five  contracts  here. 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  nothing  else? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Nothing  else. 

I  might  say  at  this  point  that  all  these  funds  of  the  Govern- 
ment that  we  had  in  our  hands  were  kept  in  a  separate  bank  account, 
and  all  interest  accruing  on  those  balances  was  credited  to  the  United 
States  and  eventually  paid  to  the  United  States,  not  kept  with  our 
funds  at  all.     They  were  kept  se])arate  and  apart  from  our  funds. 

Mr.  Nielsen.  May  I  point  out  that  on  that  Old  Hickory  profit,  we 
paid  79  percent  tax  on  it  to  the  Government,  which  reduced  it  to  a 
very  small  amount,  three  or  four  hundred  thousand  dollars. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  was  going  to  give  you  this  illustration : 
We  have  quantities  of  nitrate  of  soda  coming  from  Chile  in  different 
cargoes,  a  long  voyage,  open  to  enemy  attack,  seizure,  accident,  or 
what  not.  Supposing  a  number  of  those  cargoes  had  been  unexpect- 
edly lost;  they  would  never  arrive  at  the  plant,  and  we  could  never 
prove  without  delivery  that  they  had  been  bought  for  the  plant. 
Supposing  the  Government  had  refused  to  reimburse  us  for  that 
on  the  ground  it  was  money  not  expended  for  the  plant?  We  would 
have  been  out.  I  do  not  know  how  long  it  would  take  to  collect  the 
account.     I  do  not  know  whether  we  could  have  done  so. 

Senator  Clark.  Could  you  not  have  the  cargo  insured? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  The  insurance  might  have  failed.  We  have 
had  a  great  many  insurance  failures. 

Senator  Clark.  It  sounds  to  me  like  the  ox-tail  soup;  it  is  going 
pretty  far  back  for  soup. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  It  is;  but  there  is  a  connection. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  Suppose  one  of  our  trusted  employees  had 
embezzled  a  lot  of  money  down  there.  Would  we  as  the  principal 
not  be  responsible  for  it? 

Senator  Clark.  Do  you  not  have  your  trusted  employees  bonded 
who  handle  large  sums  of  money? 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  You  can  not  bond  them  all  when  you  see  how 
many  we  are  working  here. 

mason  and  hanger  subcontract  fee  of  $1,000,000 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  du  Pont,  are  you  familiar  with  the  subcontract 
entered  into  by  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  with  the  firm  of  Mason 
&  Hanger? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  have  not  left  my  subject  yet.  I  want  to 
enter  the  greatest  objection  to  a  statement  of  that  kind  going  into 
the  record.  It  is  misleading,  and  I  do  not  say  purposely,  but  it 
comes  pretty  close. 

Senator  Vandenberg.  Which  statement  do  you  refer  to? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  The  statement  of  the  percentage  of  money 
earned.    That  ridiculous  statement  should  not  so  into  the  record. 


3226  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Hiss.  In  1924  your  company  filed  a  brief  before  a  special 
board  composed  of  representatives  of  the  War  Department  and  the 
Department  of  Justice,  relating  to  the  Old  Hickory  contract.  At 
page  14  of  a  document  attached  to  that  brief  as  "  Exhibit  No,  7  ", 
the  attached  document  being  a  brief  on  the  subject  of  the  Mason  & 
Hanger  subcontract,  the  following  statement  is  made : 

Undei-  the  contracts  of  February  6,  1918,  and  March  23,  1918,  with  the  Mason 
&  Hanger  people,  the  total  cost  of  the  construction  work  performed  by  that 
company  amounted  to  $21,511,175  and  the  company  was  paid  a  fee  of  5  percent 
on  such  cost,  amounting  to  $1,078,558.79,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
the  contracts. 

In  other  words,  your  company  was  paid  a  fee  of  $1  for  construc- 
tion and  it  was  reimbursed  by  the  Government  a  million  dollars  for 
a  fee  which  it  paid  to  Mason  &  Hanger,  a  subcontractor,  who  per- 
formed $20,000,000  worth  of  the  total  construction  work  of  $80,000,- 
000.    Is  that  correct? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  I  will  ask  Mr.  Gregg  to  explain  that.  He 
has  the  information  there, 

Mr.  Gregg,  I  would  like  to  state  that  about  the  time  or  after  the 
time  that  the  January  29  contract  was  entered  into  between  the 
United  States  and  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.,  a  contract  was 
entered  into  between  du  Pont  Enginering  Co,  and  the  Mason  & 
Hanger  Co,  to  do  certain  work  in  connection  with  the  construction 
of  the  Old  Hickory  powder  plant.  That  included  the  building  of  the 
village  within  the  plant  site,  railroad  switching  lines  for  cars  within 
the  plant  site,  and  various  other  work.  The  du  Pont  Co.  did  agree 
to  pay  them  a  fee  of  5  percent  upon  the  cost  of  that  work. 

At  about  that  time  Mr.  Jackling,  who  was  then  special  director 
under  the  January  29  contract,  entered  into  a  contract  with  the 
Nashville,  Chattanooga  &  St.  Louis  Railway  Co.  to  construct  a  rail- 
road line  from  a  junction  point  on  the  N.  C.  &  St.  L.  to  the  plant 
site.  Under  that  contract  Mr.  Jackling  agreed  to  pay  the  N.  C,  & 
St,  L,  cost  plus  10  percent  for  the  construction  of  the  railroad  line. 
That  was  about  7  miles  long. 

When  we  made  the  new  contract  with  the  Government  on  March 
23,  1918,  the  contract  that  Mr.  Jackling  had  made  with  the  N.  C.  & 
St.  L.  was  canceled  and  terminated. 

Under  the  new  contract  with  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Co,,  they  were 
to  do  certain  work  within  the  plant  site  and  beyond  the  plant  site, 
which  included  taking  up  the  work  of  the  construction  of  this  rail- 
road line  and  completing  it,  for  cost  plus  5  percent,  not  cost  plus  10 
percent  as  was  provided  under  Mr,  Jackling's  contract.  So  that  on 
the  total  cost  of  the  work  performed  by  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Co. 
they  contended  that  they  were  entitled  to  a  fee  of  5  percent.  It  was 
my  view  that  under  their  contracts  they  were  entitled  to  such  a  fee. 

That  fee  was  questioned  by  the  representatives  of  the  Government. 
They  finally  went  to  the  War  Department.  The  Assistant  Secretary 
of  War  rendered  an  opinion,  which,  in  my  judgment,  was  arbitrary, 
in  which  he  cut  down  the  fee  of  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Co.  to  approxi- 
mately one-half  or  two-thirds,  whatever  it  was.  Following  that,  the 
Secretary  of  War  sent  the  entire  matter  to  the  Attorney  General  for 
an  opinion  as  to  whether  or  not  the  Government  was  obligated  under 
that  contract  to  pay  the  fee  of  5  percent  on  cost. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3227 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr,  Gregg,  there  is  no  contention  that  the  Government 
was  not  obligated  to  pay  it.  I  am  merely  stating  the  fact  that  a  fee 
of  $1,000,000  was  paid  to  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Co.  That  is  correct, 
is  it  not? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Whatever  it  was ;  yes ;  5  percent  on  cost. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Right. 

Mr.  Gregg.  But  I  think  it  is  entirely  proper  to  bring  this  out  at 
this  point :  The  Government  asked  us — 

Why  did  you  pay  this  fee  of  5  percent  on  cost  when  there  was  a  War  Depart- 
ment regulation  limiting  the  fee  to  subcontractors  to  $250,000? 

We  never  knew  anything  about  that  regulation.  It  had  never  been 
furnished  to  us  by  the  Government  and  we  knew  nothing  about  it. 
The  Government  representatives  had  checked  and  audited  Mason  & 
Hanger's  disbursements,  and  had  reimbursed  for  the  Mason  & 
Hanger  disbursements  during  the  period  the  work  was  going  on, 
and  they  never  raised  any  question  about  the  fee.  It  was  not  until 
after  the  armistice  was  signed  and  the  reaudit  came  along  that  this 
question  was  raised. 

I  merely  say  in  the  end  that  the  5-percent  fee  on  the  cost  to  the 
Mason  &  Hanger  work  was  allowed. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  total  fees  paid  to  Mason  &  Hanger  and  to  the 
du  Pont  Co.  for  the  construction  and  operation  of  Old  Hickory 
totaled  $1,900,000  and  $1,053,000,  being  the  fee  to  Mason  &  Hanger,  a 
total  fee  paid  directly  on  the  construction  and  operation  of  Old 
Hickory  of  $3,000,000. 

Mr.  Gregg.  No.  The  only  fee  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  got 
was  the  $1. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  said  for  construction  and  operation. 

Mr.  Gregg.  May  we  confine  it  to  construction  for  the  moment, 
because  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Co.  fee  comes  in  on  construction? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Now  that  we  have  confined  it  to  that,  may  we  now  set  up 
construction  and  operation  ?  In  construction  and  operation  the  total 
fees  paid  by  the  United  States  Government  were  $1,970,000.  Is  that 
the  latest  figure  that  you  have,  $1,976,000? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Yes;  but  that  does  not  include  Mason  &  Hanger. 

Mr.  Hiss.  $1,976,000  were  the  profits  made  by  the  du  Pont  Engi- 
neering Co.? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Yes ;  that  is  before  taxes  were  paid. 

Mr.  Hiss.  What  was  the  total  profit?  The  statement  furnished 
previously  to  me  shows  Old  Hickory  operation  profits  of  the  du  Pont 
Engineering  Co — this  has  already  been  offered  as  an  exhibit — as 
$1,961,000.  The  fee  of  Mason  &  Hanger,  already  referred  to,  was 
stated  in  the  brief  of  the  du  Pont  Co.  as  $1,053,000.  The  total  comes 
to  three  million  and  a  few  thousand  dollars  for  fees  paid  in  connection 
with  the  construction  and  operation  of  the  Old  Hickory  powder 
plant. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Mr.  Chairman,  I  must  object  to  any  such 
statement  going  into  the  record.  That  is  almost  a  falsification  of 
the  record.  It  is  an  endeavor  to  show  that  fees  of  $3,000,000  were 
paid  simply  because  a  fee  was  paid  to  a  subcontractor.  You  might 
just  as  well  put  in  the  profits  on  nitrate  of  soda  and  alcohol  and 
everything  else  that  was  bought  for  the  plant. 

83S76— 35— PT  14 5 


3228  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Senator  Clark.  The  Government  paid  it;  it  was  out  of  pocket  for 
your  fee  and  also  for  the  subcontractor's  fee,  was  it  not? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  It  has  nothing  to  do  with  the  du  Pont  Co. 

Senator  Clark.  The  statement  was  not  made  it  had  anything  to  do 
with  the  du  Pont  Co.  The  statement  was  made  as  to  how  much  the 
Government  was  out  of  pocket  in  fees  in  connection  with  the  Old 
Hickory  construction. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  There  is  an  endeavor  here  to  couple  up  this 
fee  with  the  du  Pont  Co. 

Mr.  Hiss.  No,  Mr.  du  Pont. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Otherwise  you  would  put  in  the  fees  and 
other  things?  Why  did  you  not  put  in  the  profits  on  the  nitrate  of 
soda  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  did  not  know  there  was  any  profit  on  nitrate  of  soda. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  You  ought  to  have  guessed  there  was  profit 
there. 

Mr.  Hiss.  To  du  Pont  Co.  on  nitrate  of  soda  ? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  No.  There  is  no  profit  on  the  Mason  & 
Hanger  matter  to  the  du  Pont  Co. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  am  pointing  out  that  the  du  Pont  Co.  has  stated  in 
the  pamj^hlet  referred  to  hitherto  and  at  other  times  that  this  con- 
struction of  $85,000,000  was  undertaken  at  a  profit  of  $1. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  It  was  by  the  du  Pont  Co. 

Mr.  Hiss.  $20,000,000  worth  of  the  $80,000,000  construction,  or, 
rough]3%  one-fourth,  was  performed  by  Mason  &  Hanger  and  not  by 
the  du  Pont  Co.,  and  the  Government  paid  a  fee  on  that  part  of 
the  construction  of  $1,000,000.  Therefore,  a  fee  of  $1,000,000  was 
paid  by  the  United  States  in  connection  with  the  construction  of  the 
Old  Hickory  factory. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  That  fee  was  no  different  from  the  profit 
made  on  anything  else  that  was  furnished  in  the  plant.  That  had 
nothing  to  do  with  the  du  Pont  Co.;  simply  because  it  was  stated 
as  a  fee  instead  of  a  profit.  It  had  no  relation  to  profit  of  du 
Pont  Co. 

Mr.  Hiss.  It  was  paid,  was  it  not,  for  construction  services? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Surely. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Your  company  had  a  contract  to  perform  construction 
services? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  total  fee  the  Government  had  to  pay  for  construc- 
tion services  at  Old  Hickory  was  not  $1  but  $1,000,000.  Is  that 
not  correct? 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  No  ;  it  is  not.  The  du  Pont  Co.  was  paid  a 
fee  of  $1.  What  other  people  made  out  of  it  as  subcontractors  or  in 
the  furnishing  of  materials  has  nothing  to  do  with  the  du  Pont  Co. 
any  more  than  it  had  in  the  Nitro  plant. 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  might  say  that  under  the  contract  we  had  the  right 
to  sublet  any  part  of  that. 

Senator  Clark.  The  question  is,  as  I  see  it,  how  much  the  United 
States  Treasury  was  out  of  pocket  for  construction  fees. 
Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  it. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  In  constructing  the  Nitro  plant  the  same  con- 
dition existed,  but  no  such  statement  was  made. 

Senator  Clark.  That  may  be.  I  do  not  know  anything  about  the 
Nitro  plant.    I  was  just  referring  to  the  statement  Mr.  Hiss  made 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  3229 

that  the  Government  of  the  United  States  was  actually  out  for  con- 
struction fees  for  construction  services  the  sum  which  he  named. 
He  did  not  assert  that  the  du  Pont  Co.  got  that  sum;  he  said  that 
much  was  out  of  the  United  States  Treasury,  which  I  understand 
has  not  been  controverted. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  This  is  an  endeavor  to  try  to  make  the  du 
Pont  Co.  statement  appear  false  and  erroneous.  We  had  a  right 
to  subcontract  this  thing.  It  had  nothing  to  do  with  the  du  Pont 
Co.'s  business.  They  could  have  made  a  fee  contract  or  a  lump 
sum  contract  or  no  contract  with  Mason  &  Hanger.  It  is  all  within 
their  contract  with  the  Government.  We  got  $1.  That  was  all 
we  got. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  du  Pont,  Mr.  Gregg  has  stated  that  the  War  De- 
partment regulations  at  the  time  forbade  the  payment  of  subcon- 
tractors' fees  in  excess  of  $250,000.  No  point  was  made  of  that 
in  the  statement  that  I  made.  That  fact  seems  to  me  to  indicate  a 
policy  of  the  War  Department  to  limit  subcontract  fees  to  a  certain 
amount.  Colonel  Harris  has  had  to  leave  the  room  for  a  minute, 
and  I  would  like  to  reserve  that  question  until  his  return  to  get  his 
testimony  on  that  subject. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Mr.  Gregg  has  just  pointed  out  that  the 
Government  authorized  under  Jackling  a  10-percent  contract  with 
the  Tennessee  Railroad. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  evidence  was  put  in  simply  to  show  that  in  this 
particular  contract,  which  has  been  stated  as  a  one  dollar  cost  of  con- 
struction contract,  $1,000,000  was  pai^^  for  constriictio!i  services  by 
the  United  States  Government.  That  $1,00.),000  did  not  go  to  your 
company  and  no  statement  has  been  made  that  it  did. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  Please  dissociate  that  matter  from  our 
company. 

Mr.  Hiss.  It  went  to  a  company  that  assumed  the  responsibility 
for  one-fourth  of  the  construction  services  performed. 

Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont.  And  the  du  Pont  Co.  had  nothing  to  do 
with  it.     That  is  clear. 

Mr.  Gregg.  You  are  going  to  take  this  substitute,  are  you,  Mr. 
Hiss? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Yes ;  if  you  will  read  those  figures  in. 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  think  it  is  entirely  proper  at  this  point  to  state  so 
far  as  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  is  concerned,  the  gross  and 
net  profits  realized  by  that  company  with  the  Government  under 
those  five  contracts  after  paying  Federal  income  taxes.  The  con- 
tracts involved  the  construction  and  operation  of  the  Old  Hickory 
powder  plant,  the  construction  and  operation  of  the  loading  plant 
for  shells  and  casings  at  Penniman,  Va.,  the  operation  of  a  bag- 
loading  plant  at  Tullytown,  Pa.,  and  another  one  at  Seven  Pines, 
Va.,  both  of  those  plants  having  been  constructed  by  the  Founda- 
tion Co.,  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  only  operating  them;  and 
the  construction  of  a  TNT  plant  at  Ives,  Wis.  That  contract  was 
entered  into  just  a  short  time  prior  to  the  armistice,  so  we  did  not 
get  very  far  with  the  construction  of  that  plant. 

The  net  taxable  income  for  the  year  1918  as  ascertained  by  the 
Internal  Revenue  Department  for'  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co. 
was  $518,164.58,  and  the  net  taxable  income  for  the  year  1919,  as 


3230  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

ascertained  by  the  Internal  Revenue  Department,  was  $2,031,163.49, 
or  a  total  net  taxable  income  for  those  2  years  of  $2,549,328.07. 

The  commercial  profits  by  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  for  the  year 
1919  of  $98,142.19  left  a  total  of  $2,451,185.88  taxable  income  on 
Government  work  for  those  2  years. 

The  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  paid  the  Government  in  income  and 
profits  taxes  for  the  year  1918,  $417,135.61,  and  for  the  year  1919, 
$1,603,557.47,  or  a  total  of  $2,020,693.08. 

Deducting  from  the  $2,020,693.08  the  tax  applying  to  the  commer- 
cial profits,  $44,047.63,  left  a  balance  of  tax  applicable  to  the  Gov- 
ernment work  of  $1,976,645.45. 

Deducting  that  from  the  total  taxable  income  of  $2,451,185.88  of 
the  Government  work  left  a  balance  of  a  final  net  profit  to  du  Pont 
Engineering  Co.  of  $474,540.43  on  an  amount  of  work  totaling  a 
little  over  $129,000,000. 

From  that  $474,540.43,  it  seems  to  me  that  we  are  entirely  justified 
in  deducting  the  following: 

The  contract  for  the  construction  and  operation  of  the  Old  Hickory 
powder  plant  provided  that  on  construction  the  du  Pont  Engi- 
neering Co.  had  the  right  to  pay  extra  compensation  to  employees  to 
expedite  the  work  of  construction,  and  such  extra  compensation  was 
set  up  and  was  paid  after  having  been  threshed  over  a  number  of 
times  with  the  Government.  There  was  nothing  in  the  contract  to 
provide  any  extra  compensation  to  employees  engaged  on  operation, 
so  that  the  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  awarded  a  common-stock 
bonus  to  certain  employees  who  were  engaged  on  operations  in  these 
Government  plants,  and  those  stock-bonus  awards,  which  were  en- 
tirely borne  by  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.,  and  no  part  of  them 
by  the  Government,  amounted  to  $193,194.18. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Do  you  know  whether  that  stock  was  acquired  by  the  du 
Pont  Co.  by  purchase,  or  do  you  know  by  what  means  it  was 
acquired? 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  could  not  say  definitely,  but  I  should  assume  it  was, 
because,  as  I  understand  it,  practically  all  that  stock  used  for  bonus 
purposes  is  bought  in  the  open  market. 

Mr.  Nielsen.  It  was  purchased  stock.  That  was  our  policy  at  that 
time. 

Mr.  Gregg.  That  was  an  out-of-pocket  expense  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 
Nemours  &  Co.  Of  course,  that  company  owming  all  the  capital  stock 
of  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.,  whatever  profit  du  Pont  Engineering 
Co.  got  on  this  work  eventually,  of  course,  would  go  to  E.  I.  du  Pont 
de  Nemours  &  Co.  So  deducting  that  $193,194.18  from  the  $474,540.43 
left  a  total  net  profit  of  $281,346.25. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Gregg,  how  many  of  the  employees  who  received 
that  bonus  remained  with  the  company  after  the  Government  con- 
tracts had  been  ended  and  the  engineering  company  started  outside 
construction  work  ?  ^ 


1  Under  date  of  Jan.  10,  1035.  the  du  Pont  Co.  informed  the  committee  that  :  "  The 
total  number  of  employees  of  du  Pont  Ena:ineering'  Co.  wh.o  were  paid  a  bonus  on  account 
of  their  work  in  the  construction  of  Government  plants  by  du  Pont  Engineering  Co. 
was  1'.>1,  and  of  this  number  12G  were  transferred  to  El.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co. 
or  one  of  its  subsidiary  companies  after  the  (Jovernment  ^\ork  was  terminated.  All  of 
the  employees  who  received  a  bonus  on  account  of  the  construction  of  Government  plants, 
with  the  exception  of  9  employees  of  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.,  were  in  the  employ  of 
E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co,  prior  to  their  transfer  to  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  for 
Government   construction   work." 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3231 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  could  not  tell  you  that  otfhand.  I  will  be  glad  to 
get  that  information  for  you.  I  have  a  list  of  the  employees  in  that 
book  that  I  gave  you. 

AUDITING   OF   OLD   HICKORY   CONTRACT 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Gregg,  you  are  familiar,  are  you  not,  with  the  inves- 
tigations which  have  from  time  to  time  been  conducted  by  the  Gov- 
ernment into  the  question  of  the  Old  Hickory  contract?  Would 
you  give  a  resume  as  you  remember  them  of  some  of  those  investiga- 
tions ? 

Mr.  Gregg.  There  are  so  many  of  them  that  I  do  not  know  if  I 
can  give  you  all  of  them.  They  started,  as  I  recall  it,  in  1919,  and 
they  continued  up  to  the  year  1925. 

To  begin  with,  in  the  year  1919  the  Government  sent  out  a  force 
of  auditors  to  Wilmington.  My  information  is  that  at  one  time 
they  had  103  auditors  there.  Those  auditors  were  also  working  on 
E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.'s  claims  after  the  armistice,  as  well 
as  du  Pont  Engineering  Co. 

Those  auditors  remained  at  Wilmington  for  a  certain  period  and 
then  they  were  all  moved  to  Philadelphia.  A  number  of  the  records 
were  moved  to  Philadelphia  by  the  Government.  Shortly  after  they 
were  moved  up  there  they  had  a  fire  where  the  records  were  stored 
and,  as  I  recall  it,  none  of  the  records  were  actually  destroyed  by 
fire,  but  a  number  of  them  were  water-soaked  to  such  an  extent  that 
you  could  hardly  make  them  out. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Will  you  complete  the  general  summary,  please,  of  the 
investigations  that  took  place? 

]\Ir.  Gregg.  I  am  going  to  do  that. 

]\Ir.  Hiss.  I  am  sorry ;  I  thought  you  had  finished. 

Mr.  Gregg.  Then,  later  on,  they  returned  those  records  to  Wil- 
mington and  pursued  the  investigation  from  Wilmington. 

Do  you  wish  me  to  state  the  various  questions  that  came  up? 

Mr.  Hiss.  No,  no;  just  a  general  outline  of  the  time  involved,  the 
investigations  carried  on,  and  when  the  thing  was  finally  settled. 

Mr.  Gregg.  So  far  as  the  actual  investigation  was  concerned  with 
the  auditors,  it  began  to  run  out  about  1923  and  1924.  Then  about 
that  time  the  Attorney  General  appointed  outside  counsel  to  go  over 
this  whole  matter,  and  that  related  only  to  Old  Hickory  to  a  great 
extent. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Who  was  the  counsel  appointed,  Mr.  Gregg? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Those  counsel  were  Mr.  Frierson,  who  was  Solicitor 
General  during  the  Wilson  administration,  and  ]\Ir.  Williams,  a  law- 
yer in  Tennessee.  Both  of  them  were  appointed  on  this  work  to 
look  into  certain  charges  and  expenditures  in  connection  with  the 
du  Pont  Engineering  Co.'s  contracts. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Was  that  the  first  connection  that  the  Department  of 
Justice  had  had  with  the  contract? 

Mr.  Gregg.  No.  The  Department  of  Justice  had  a  prior  connection 
with  these  contracts.  As  I  recall  it,  various  accusations  were  filed 
with  the  Department  of  Justice  as  early  as  1922  and  probably  1921. 
They  were  over  there  until  1923. 

In  1923  Colonel  Anderson,  wdio  was  then  general  counsel — I  would 
not  say  general  counsel,  but  the  attorney  representing  the  Govern- 


3232  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

ment  in  the  war  frauds  section  of  the  Department  of  Justice — told 
me  that  there  were  a  number  of  matters  pending  'in  his  division 
relating  to  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co. 

Just  about  that  time  a  subcommittee  was  appointed  of  the  Joint 
Board  of  Survey  of  the  War  Department  and  the  Department  of 
Justice.  That  subcommittee  consisted  of  Major  General  Williams, 
Chief  of  Ordnance;  Mr.  Dwight  F.  Davis,  who  was  then  Assistant 
Secretary  of  War,  and  Col.  Henry  W.  Anderson,  who  was  then  legal 
adviser  for  the  war  frauds  or  war  transactions  section  of  the  Depart- 
ment of  Justice. 

Colonel  Anderson  told  me  that  there  were  certain  things  that  the 
du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  would  have  to  answer.  My  recollection  is 
that  he  either  called  me  on  the  telephone  in  Wilmington  or  wrote  me 
a  note  asking  mc  to  stop  in  and  see  him  the  next  time  I  came  to 
Washington,  which  I  did. 

He  then  told  me  that  he  was  going  to  give  me  a  number  of  ques- 
tions that  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  would  have  to  answer  in  con- 
nection with  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  work.  He  stated  to  me, 
in  view  of  the  fact — this  board  having  already  been  appointed — that 
as  he  was  going  to  sit  on  this  board,  he  did  not  want  to  have  anything 
to  do  with  it,  that  he  wanted  to  keep  his  mind  free,  but  that  he 
would  turn  me  over  to  one  of  his  men  to  give  me  a  list  of  the  things 
that  the  Department  desired  to  have  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co. 
answer. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Who  was  that  assistant,  Mr.  Gregg? 

Mr.  Gregg.  "VVliereupon  he  called  in  Major  Carncluff.  Major  Carn- 
duff  did  submit 

Mr,  Hiss.  Major  Carnduff  is  in  the  room,  Mr.  Chairman.  Would 
you  mind  calling  him  and  having  him  sworn  ? 

Senator  Clark.  Major  Carnduff,  will  you  come  forward,  please. 
Do  you  want  him  sworn,  Mr.  Hiss? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Yes. 

TESTIMONY  OF  ARTHUR  CARNDUFF  ^ 

(The  witness  was  duly  sworn  by  Senator  Clark.) 

Senator  Clark.  Will  j^ou  state  3'our  full  name,  please.  Major? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Arthur  Carnduif. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Will  you  state  your  present  position.  Major  Carnduff? 

Mr.  Carndiff.  Special  attorney'.  Bureau  of  Internal  Revenue. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Will  you  state  your  position  at  the  time  that  you  had 
some  connection  with  the  Old  Hickory  matter? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Special  assistant  to  the  Attorney  General,  working 
under  Henry  W.  Anderson,  also  special  assistant. 

Mr.  Hiss.  When  did  you  first  become  interested  in  or  when  were 
you  first  assigned  to  the  Old  Hickory  case,  approximately  ? 

Mr.  Carndiff.  Late  in  the  year  1922,  or  very  early  in  the  year 
1923. 

Mr.  Hiss.  What  was  the  nature  of  your  work  on  that  from  the 
standpoint  of  responsibility  and  detail? 

1  In  ooniU'Ction  with  the  testimony  of  Arthur  Carndufif,  Mr.  Gregg,  under  date  of  Dec. 
28,  1034,  notified  the  committee  that  some  of  Mr.  Carnduff's  statements  were  incorrect. 
These  statements  were  in  connection  witli  the  testimony  of  Maj.  R.  R.  Farr  at  a  private 
executive  and  confidential  hearing  lield  in  102.".  l>efore  a  subcommittee  on  ordnance  of 
the  General  War  Transactions  Board.  Both  Mr.  Gregg's  letter  to  the  cx)mmittee  and  the 
complete  transcript  of  above  hearings  are  included  in  the  appendix  on  pp.  ;!362  and  3364. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3233 

Mr.  CARNDurr.  I  was  responsible  for  the  case,  it  was  assicrned  to 
me  as  an  attorney,  and  I  worked  under  the  direction  of  Colonel 
Anderson. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Grejrg,  can  you  identify  Col.  P.  J.  O'Shaughnessy ? 

Mr.  Gregg.  What  do  you  mean,  identify  him? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Do  you  know  him  ? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Oh,  I  know  him,  yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  What  was  his  position  with  the  Army  and  in  what 
branch  was  he? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Colonel  O'Shaughnessy  was  in  the  Army  during  the 
war,  as  I  understand  it.  I  will  not  be  positive  about  this,  Mr.  Hiss; 
it  is  just  hearsay;  but  prior  to  the  war,  he  had  been  retired,  he  had 
been  in  the  Regular  Army  and  retired,  and  then  was  called  back  dur- 
ing the  war,  and  after  the  armistice  he  continued  in  the  War  Depart- 
ment and  in  the  Ordnance  Department. 

Mr.  Hiss.  We  might  wait  until  Colonel  Harris  comes  back  to 
identify  him.^ 

Mr.  Gregg.  Now  I  would  like  to  go  a  little  further  with  these 
matters  I  was  discussing,  Mr.  Hiss. 

Mr.  Hiss.  All  right,  if  you  will. 

Mr.  Gregg.  As  I  stated.  Colonel  Anderson  said  he  wanted  to  keep 
his  mind  entirely  clear.  He  called  in  Major  Carnduff  and  asked 
Major  Carnduff  to  give  me  a  list  of  the  things  that  they  desired  to 
have  me  answer ;  and  this  is  the  list  that  Major  Carnduff  gave  me  and 
the  only  thing  that  he  did  give  me : 

IN    THE    MATTER    OF    GENEEAL    INQUIRY 

1.  Has  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  a  complete  and  accurate  system  of  account- 
ing of — 

(a)   Construction  project. 
ib)   Operation. 
Is  such  now  available  for  examination  by  the  United  States? 

2.  What  are  contractor's  views  on  a  joint  audit  of — 

(a)   Mason  &  Hanger  expenditures. 

(ft)   Operating   expenses   as   determining   costs   in   relation    to   manu- 
facturing bonus  claimed. 

3.  Has  contractor  ever  rendered  a  complete  statement  of  account  to  United 
States?    May  we  have  a  copy  of  its  statement? 

4.  "Will  contractor  furnish  a  summary  of  items  disallowed  by  United  States, 
and  accepted  by  du  Pont?  This  should  include  a  summary  of  disallowances 
already  vouchered  upon  which  there  should  be  a  refund  or  credit  due  the 
United    States. 

5.  What  amount  does  contractor  at  this  time  admit  is  due  United  States? 

6.  "Will  contractor  furnish  a  statement  of  operations  with  such  an  analysis 
by  way  of  schedules  to  show  generally  (1)  the  description  of  charges  entering 
into  operations  from  which  the  basis  for  the  bonus  for  saving  was  determined, 
and  (2)  profits  on  operations  from  inception  of  operating  period  to  the  end 
of  operations. 

7.  Will  contractor  furnish  a  statement  of  costs  of  construction  and  equipment 
with  such  an  analysis  by  way  of  schedules  to  show  the  costs  by  respective  units 
of  the  whole. 

IN    THE    MATTER    OF    SPECIFIC    ITEMS    OF    INQUIRY 

1.  Mason  &  Hanger  transaction : 

(1)  What  were  du  Font's  dealings  with  Mason  &  Hanger  previous  to  this 
contract? 

(2)  Who  negotiated  contract  between  du  Pont  and  Mason  &  Hanger? 


^  For  Colonel  Harris'  identification  of  Colonel  O'Shaughnessy  see  p.  3235. 


3234  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

(3)  Have  du  Fonts  any  stock  in  Mason  &  Hanger? 

(4)  Who  does  own  majority  of  Mason  &  Hanger  stock? 

(5)  Explain  circumstances  of  concern  now  rated  at  $400,000  to  $500,000 
capital,  with  class  B  credit  rating  in  a  town  of  5,662  population  receiving  a 
contract  totaling  $21,511,175.80  on  which  they  were  paid  a  fee  of  $1,075,558.79 
(R.  G.  Dunn  1923  listing)    ($1,075,558.79— $250,000— $825,558.79). 

(6)  What  are  the  intercorporate  relations  of  du  Pont  and  Mason  &  Hanger? 

(7)  Was  the  du  Pont  official  who  negotiated  the  Mason  &  Hanger  contract 
aware  of  the  maximum  fee  of  $250,000  in  War  Department  regulations?  Is  it 
not  a  fact  that  Mason  &  Hanger  had  other  government  contracts  with 
regulation  scale  of  fees? 

(8)  What  check  was  kept  on  Mason  &  Hanger  expenditures? 

(9)  Did  they  not  buy  from  du  Pont  subsidiaries?  Was  this  an  agreed 
arrangement? 

(10)  What  was  the  necessity  for  agreeing  to  an  unlimited  5  percent  fee, 
obviously  excessive  when  regulations  called  for  a  maximum  of  $250,000? 

BONUSES   PAID  TO  EMPLOYES 

2.  (1)  Will  contractor  furnish  a  complete  statement  of  all  bonuses  paid  to 
employes   for  any   cause? 

(2)  What  payments  were  made  to  employes  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  & 
Co.  over  and  above  "Salaries  and  traveling  expenses"? 

SUBSIDIARIES 

3.  (1)  Was  it  not  the  rule  to  purchase  materials  from  du  Pont  subsidiaries? 
Was  this  not  profitable  to  E.  I.  duPont  deNemours  &  Co.? 

(2)  Was  purchase  noncompetitive? 

(3)  Was  there  any  check  on  materials  or  prices  by  du  Pont?  Explain 
system  ? 

COTTON    LINTERS 

4.  (1)  Explain  excessive  prices  above  maximum  contract  rates. 

(2)  Was  this  cotton  bought  from  du  Pont? 

(3)  Was  there  ever  a  readjustment  on  books  of  this  excessive  price  and  was 
credit  allowed  United  States? 

(4)  Why  were  47  carloads  of  cotton  of  a  value  of  $83,000  shipped  from 
Hopewell,  a  du  Pont  plant,  to  Old  Hickory  on  February  15,  1919? 

(5)  Explain  this  transaction. 

(6)  Excess  on  cotton  shavings  of  $42,354.98.     Was  this  refunded? 

(7)  Explain  weights  from  duPont  American  Industries  of  1,000  pounds  to 
2,468  pounds  per  bale,  on  cotton  linters,  so  charged  to  United  States.  (See 
Agent  Towles  report.) 

FKEIGHT  CHARGES 

5.  (1)  AVas  a  reaudit  or  refund  of  excessive  freight  ever  made? 

(2)  Why  was  freight  allowed  to  come  in  at  excess  charges? 

(3)  Was  Mason  &  Hanger  paid  5  percent  on  this  freight? 

BROADWAY    MOTORS 

6.  (1)  Will  contractor  furnish  a  report  of  transaction  with  Broadway 
Motors,  comparing  prices  charged  United  States  for  Chevrolet  cars  with  current 
prices? 

That  was  the  list  of  questions  that  Major  Carnduff  submitted  to 
me.  I  don't  know  whether  it  was  the  same  day;  it  may  have  been 
the  next  day;  but  at  that  time.  That  is  all  he  ever  did  submit  to 
me  in  connection  with  the  matters  then  pending  before  the  Depart- 
ment, then  or  at  any  other  time. 

Now,  then,  this  hearing  which  Colonel  Anderson  mentioned  was 
held  in  the  Munitions  Building  on  December  5,  1923.  I  appeared 
there  with  several  of  our  representatives. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3235 

In  the  meantime,  I  had  written  this  reply  to  the  questions,  submit- 
ting exhibits  to  practically  every  question  asked/  I  look  up  each 
question  and  gave  the  answer.  I  do  not  assume  that  it  is  worth 
while  or  that  the  committee  desires  to  take  up  the  time  of  going 
through  all  of  these  answ^ers. 

Mr.  Hiss.  No,  Mr.  Gregg. 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  did  not  assume  so.  But  what  I  would  like  to  do, 
in  view  of  the  fact  that  this  is  our  answer  to  the  questions  submitted 
to  us  by  the  Department  of  Justice,  is  to  have  a  copy  of  this  go  into 
the  record  as  an  exhibit. 

Senator  Pope.  What  was  that  committee?  What  was  the  nature 
of  the  committee? 

Mr.  Gregg.  It  was  a  subcommittee — that  is,  this  is  my  understand- 
ing of  it,  Senator — it  was  a  subcommittee  of  the  Joint  Board  of 
Survey  of  the  War  Department  and  the  Department  of  Justice. 
Now,  just  who  appointed  them,  maybe  perhaps  Mr.  Hiss  or  Major 
CarndufF  can  tell.  Major  Carnduff,  you  tell  them  how  that  com- 
mittee w^as  appointed. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  The  Department  of  Justice,  War  Transactions 
Section,  felt  that  it  should  investigate  the  Old  Hickory  contract,  to 
ascertain  if  any  moneys  were  due  the  United  States.  It  was  an 
accounting  investigation  that  was  desired.  The  War  Department 
felt  that  the  Old  Hickory  contract  had  not  yet  been  settled.  The 
War  Department  seemed  to  be  of  the  opinion,  in  the  opinion  of  the 
Department  of  Justice,  that  it  was  a  matter  for  the  War  Depart- 
ment to  settle,  and  not  a  matter  for  the  Deparment  of  Justice  to 
handle,  except  insofar  as  the  War  Department  asked  the  opinion  of 
the  attorney  general  on  certain  points. 

Thereupon  a  joint  meeting  was  held  to  ascertain  if  the  wdiole  mat- 
ter of  the  Old  Hickory  contract  should  be  referred  to  the  attorney 
general,  first,  for  investigation,  and,  second,  for  action,  if  action  was 
indicated. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Major  CarndufF,  may  I  interrupt  you  just  a  minute? 
There  are  one  or  two  points  that  occurred  earlier  than  that  which  I 
would  like  to  bring  out  at  this  time. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  First,  for  the  record,  I  should  like  to  have  marked  as 
an  exhibit  the  statement  from  which  Mr.  Gregg  was  reading  as  to 
the  total  of  profits.  This  differs  slightly  from  the  statement  pre- 
viously furnished  me  by  the  company,  which  has  already  been  intro- 
duced in  evidence  as  "  Exhibit  No.  1170 ",  and  these  should  be 
printed  together. 

(The  statement  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1171  "  and 
is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3313.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  Colonel  Harris,  can  you  identify  Lt.  Col.  P.  J. 
O'Shaughnessy  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  He  is  an  officer  of  the  Ordnance  De- 
partment on  the  retired  list. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Do  you  know"  what  his  functions  were  in  1917  and 
1918? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  He  was  on  duty  at  the  Frankfort 
Arsenal  during  the  active  portion  of  the  war,  and  after  the  war 
came  to  Washington  and  was  on  duty  in  the  legal  and  contract 
section  of  the  office  of  ordnance. 


1  Entered  as  "Exhibit  No.  1173",  see  p.  3236. 


3236  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Hiss.  Did  he  have  wide  experience  with  the  contracts  entered 
into  during  the  World  War  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  Not  at  the  time  they  were  entered 
into,  but  subsequently  he  did. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Did  he  have  any  experience  or  was  he  in  a  position  to 
be  informed  as  to  the  auditing  being  done  in  connection  with 
contracts  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  The  portion  after  the  war  and  the 
records  as  to  auditing  he  was  familiar  with. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  offer  as  exhibits  a  letter  which  Mr.  Raushenbush,  the 
committee's  secretary,  wrote  to  Colonel  O'Shaughnessy  on  Decem- 
ber 10,  1934,  and  the  telegram  which  Colonel  O'Shaughnessy  sent 
in  reply. 

(The  letter  and  telegram  referred  to  were  marked  "  Exhibit  No. 
1172  ",  and  are  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3313.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Raushenbush's  letter  to  Lieutenant  Colonel 
O'Shaughnessy,  dated  December  10,  1934,  reads: 

We  have  been  supplied  by  the  Wai*  Department  with  a  copy  of  a  memo- 
randum prepared  by  you  on  April  4,  1932,  concerning  certain  criticisms  of  the 
then  form  of  adjusted  compensation  contract  by  the  Bridgeport  Ordnance 
District.     At  page  8  of  this  memorandum   the  following  statement  appears: 

"  During  the  World  War  we  had  to  audit  every  cost-plus  contract.  I  know 
of  only  one  which  was  not  audited  currently ;  after  the  war  we  spent  nearly 
7  years  auditing  and  investigating  that  contract.  It  cost  the  Government 
upward  of  $1,250,000.  Had  the  auditing  been  done  concurrently,  it  would  have 
save  the  Government  a  very  great  deal  of  money." 

Will  you  please  inform  the  committee  of  the  conti'act  to  which  you  referred. 
We  would  appreciate  an  immediate  reply  by  telegram  collect. 

Under  date  of  December  14 — Colonel  O'Shaughnessy  is  in  Florida 
and  was  not  subpenaed — Colonel  O'Shaughnessy  replied  as  follows : 

Re  letter  10,  my  reference  was  to  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  contract  for 
construction  and  operation  of  the  Old  Hickory  Powder  Plant  at  Nashville, 
Tenn. 

That  will  be  attached  to  Mr.  Raushenbush's  letter  as  a  part  of  this 
last  exhibit. 

As  I  understand  it,  the  exhibits  attached  to  the  brief  prepared  by 
Mr.  Gregg  for  the  joint  committee  to  which  he  has  referred  have 
been  marked  for  identification  as  "  Exhibit  No.  1173-A  ",  and  will 
be  in  the  files  of  the  committee  for  anyone  who  wishes  to  consult 
them,  and  the  brief  proper,  apart  from  the  exhibits,  will  be  printed 
as  an  exhibit. 

Senator  Clark.  That  is  correct. 

(The  brief  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1173  "  and  is  in- 
cluded in  the  appendix  on  p.  3314.) 

Mr.  Gregg.  Might  I  go  a  little  further  on  this  case  ? 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  would  rather  continue  this  way,  if  you  don't  mind, 
Mr.  Gregg. 

Mr.  Gregg.  All  right,  go  ahead. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Colonel  Harris,  do  you  know  anything  to  the  contrary 
of  the  statement  made  by  Colonel  O'Shaughnessy,  namely,  that  the 
Old  Hickory  contract  was  not  audited  currently  at  the  time  of  the 
expenditures  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  have  no  knowledge  in  that  regard 
at  all. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTKY  3237 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  have  no  knowledge  that  he  is  incorrect? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  have  no  knowledge  that  he  is  incor- 
rect, and  he  should  be  in  a  position  to  know,  because  he  was  in  official 
charge  of  the  ordnance  office  and  should  know. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Major  Carnduff,  in  your  experiences  and  in  your  work 
on  the  Old  Hickory  contract,  did  you  have  any  occasion  to  learn 
whether  or  not  the  War  Department  did  audit  the  Old  Hickory 
contract  currently? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  To  the  best  of  my  knowledge,  information  and 
belief,  there  was  not  a  complete  audit  of  the  contract  made  currently 
with  construction  and  operation.  There  w^as  some  check  on  materials 
received  and  there  was  some  check  on  bills  and  vouchers  rendered  by 
the  War  Department.  There  was  not  what  was  in  the  opinion  of  the 
auditors  and  attorneys  of  the  Department  of  Justice  a  complete 
auditing  by  the  War  Department. 

Senator  Pope.  Do  you  know  why  that  was,  that  it  was  not  audited 
currently  ? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  do  not,  sir,  because  I  was  assigned  to  this  mat- 
ter in  1923  and  the  construction  was  in  1918.    I  was  in  France  then. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  will  ask  that  this  report  be  marked  as  the  next  exhibit. 

(The  report  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1174  "  and  is  in- 
cluded in  the  appendix  on  p.  3327.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  Major  Carnduff,  I  show  you  excerpts  from  a  report  on 
file  in  the  Department  of  Justice,  prepared  by  Mr.  Cameron.  Can 
you  identify  Mr.  Cameron? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Mr.  Cameron  was  directing  the  accounting  investi- 
gation for  the  Department  of  Justice.  He  is  a  prominent  accountant 
of  New  York  City  and  during  this  work  he  was  paid  an  annual 
salaiT  of  $18,000  by  the  Government. 

]Slr.  Hiss.  The  report  from  which  these  excerpts  are  made  is  a 
report  on  the  du  Pont  Engineering  case,  made  for  the  Attorney  Gen- 
eral by  the  War  Transactions  Section  of  the  Department  of  justice. 

The  first  page,  being  page  6  of  that  report,  lists  certain  of  the 
contracts  in  addition  to  Old  Hickory  and  describes  them. 

Penniman :  Under  contract  G1320-732A,  dated  December  31,  1917,  the  com- 
pany were  to  he  paid,  in  addition  to  the  cost  of  constimction  and  operation 
of  the  plant,  10  percent  of  the  cost  of  construction  and  10  percent  of  the  cost 
of  loading  different  sizes  of  shells  to  a  maximum  of  1,4S2..500  shells.  In  excess 
of  such  quantity  there  was  to  be  paid  10  percent  of  established  base  cost  plus 
50  percent  of  any  saving  below  the  base  cost.  The  new  contract  under  date 
of  April  12,  1918,  provided  a  compensation  $1  nominal  profit  on  construction 
plus  14  percent  of  the  cost  of  operation. 

That  is  an  increase  over  the  original  10  percent. 

Any  profit  accruing  under  the  contract  of  December  31,  1917,  was  voluntarily 
waived  and  applied  as  an  advance  against  the  new  contract. 

Tnllytown  :  This  contract.  P3509-643  E.  dated  .March  2,  1918,  provided  for 
reimbursement  of  all  costs  of  operation  plus  14  percent  as  compensation. 

Seven  Pines:  This  contract,  P9050-960E.  dated  June  1,  1918,  covered  reim- 
bursement of  ail  costs  of  operation  plus  14  percent  as  compensation. 

Ives:  This  contract,  P15271-1433E,  dated  October  2,  1918.  provided  that  the 
United  States  would  bear  all  costs  of  construction  and  in  addition  pay  a 
specified  price  per  pound,  subject  to  adjustment,  of  all  TNT  manufactured. 
A  nominal  profit  of  $1  was  to  be  paid  for  the  construction  of  the  plant. 
Prior  to  the  armistice  construction  of  foundations  for  the  buildings  had  only 
begun. 

Previous  examinations :  Various  charges  were  made  from  time  to  time  that 
there  were  serious  irregularities,  great  waste  and  extravagance  in  expenditure 
of  Government  funds.    Mr.  G.  H.  Dorr,  assistant  director  of  munitions 


3238  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Colonel  Harris,  do  you  know  who  G.  H.  Dorr  was  ? 
Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  He  was  an  officer  in  the  War  Depart- 
ment during  the  war.^ 

Mr.  Hiss.  Do  you  know  what  his  first  name  was  ? 

Lieutenant  Colonel  Harris.  I  do  not. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Could  you  ascertain?     [Continuing:] 

— assistant  director  of  munitions,  in  October  1919,  issued  instructions  to  th»? 
Ordnance  district  chief  at  Pliiladelpliia,  Pa.,  to  continue  such  auditing  and 
accounting  as  may  be  necessary  in  tlie  interests  of  the  Government.  Tlae  Ord- 
nance district  chief  in  turn  authorized  tlie  cost-accounting  branch  to  pro- 
ceed within  the^audit.  A  great  deal  of  auditing  up  to  this  time  had  already 
been  performed,  but  obviously  a  reaudit  was  begun.  Tliis  reaudit  was  in 
charge  of  various  individuals  and  was  not  completed  until  June  1922,  and 
the  result  thereof  summarized  as  of  May  31,  1922,  by  an  auditor  of  the  War 
Department. 

Major  Carnduff,  I  show  you  a  recapitulation,  copies  of  which  were 
furnished  by  the  Department  of  Justice,  which  I  will  offer  as  the 
next  exhibit. 

(The  recapitulation  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1175  " 
and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3335.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  lower  left-hand  corner  of  this  bears  the  date  June 
23,  1922.     The  top  heading  is : 

Du  Pont  Engineering  Co.,  recapitulation  of  all  contracts,  May  31,  1922. 

Do  you  know  whether  this  is  the  summary  referred  to  in  Mr. 
Cameron's  report? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  This  is  the  summary  referred  to  in  Mr.  Cameron's 
report.  This  was  in  the  possession  of  the  Department  of  Justice 
prior  to  the  inquiry  made  of  Mr.  Gregg. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Continuing  with  this  report: 

It  is  quite  appai'ent  that  during  the  course  of  the  reaudit,  considerable 
trouble  arose  due  to  a  lack  of  adequate  legal  interjiretation  of  certain  provi- 
sions in  the  contracts.  Maj.  R.  R.  Farr  was  appointed  a  sjiecial  representa- 
tive of  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War  on  July  16,  1921,  to  bring  the  reaudit 
of  all  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  claims  to  a  satisfactory  conclusion.  Major 
Farr  (at  present  a  si)ecial  assi-stant  to  the  attorney  general  in  the  War  Trans- 
actions Section)  proceeded  to  issue  legal  opinions  of  matters  submitted  to  liim 
for  a  guidance  of  the  various  Government  auditors  engaged  upon  the  work? 

While  you  were  investigating  this  case,  INIajor  Carnduff,  did  you 
inquire  of  the  War  Department  for  any  material  that  might  show 
any  auditing  made  by  the  War  Dej^artment? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  notified  the  War  Department  in  May  1923,  that 
I  had  this  reaudit. 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  mean  this  recapitulation? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Or  this  recapitulation  to  which  you  have  referred 
and  asked  them  for  supporting  data  upon  which  this  recapitulation 
was  made. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Is  this  the  letter  which  you  wrote  to  the  War  Depart- 
ment ? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Yes. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  offer  it  for  appropriate  marking  as  an  exhibit. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1176  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3336.) 

1  Under  date  of  April  4.  1935,  Colonel  Harris  informed  the  committee  that  Mr.  Dorr's 
first  name  was  Goldthwaite  and  that  he  was  assistant  director  of  munitions. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  3239 

Mr.  Hiss,  I  call  your  attention  to  this  letter,  dated  May  24,  1923, 
signed  Arthur  Carnduff,  special  assistant  to  the  Attorney  General, 
addressed  to  Maj.  John  G.  Booton,  Ordnance  Department,  United 
States  Army,  and  I  call  your  attention  particularly  to  the  last  sen- 
tence of  the  first  paragraph : 

The  supporting  details  upon  which  this  is  based  would  be  very  valuable  at 
this  time,  and  therefore  requested,  referring  to  the  document  entitled,  "  llecapit- 
uhition  of  all  contracts,  May  31,  1922." 

Were  you  referring  to  the  recapitulation  which  has  been  intro- 
duced in  evidence.  Major? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  was  referring  to  that  recapitulation,  and  I  wrote 
this  letter  and  sent  it  to  Major  Booton,  who  was  at  that  time  assigned 
to  the  furnishing  of  any  details  required  by  the  Department  of 
Justice  on  all  War  Department  contracts. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  also  call  your  attention  to  the  last  paragraph  on  the 
first  page  [reading]  : 

If  the  recapitulation  of  May  31,  1932,  referred  to  above  is  the  final  statement 
of  the  War  Department,  would  you  kindly  advise  as  to  where  and  how  it 
was  prepared,  and  as  to  where  the  supporting  documents  and  proof  as  to  same 
may  be  obtained? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Also  as  to  where  the  files  are,  which  is  very  im- 
portant, 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  would  like  to  have  this  reply  of  Major  Booton's 
marked  with  the  appropriate  exhibit  number. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1177  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3336.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  Major  Carnduff,  I  show  you  a  letter  of  June  15,  1923, 
signed  John  G.  Booton,  addressed  to  you,  and  ask  you  if  that  is  the 
reply  which  Major  Booton  made  to  you? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Three  weeks  after  I  wrote  that  letter  I  received  a 
reply  from  Major  Booton,  in  which  he  made  certain  statements,  and 
to  which  he  appended  two  documents.  One  of  them  was  the  recapit- 
ulation already  in  evidence,  which  I  had,  and  the  other  was  a  report 
or  comments  upon  this  recapitulation  made  by  one  W.  G,  Kileen. 
The  recapitulation  I  already  had,  and  the  comments  by  Mr.  Kileen, 
in  the  opinion  of  myself  and  Colonel  Anderson,  were  not  of  any 
great  value  to  us. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Did  the  documents  which  were  enclosed  in  Major 
Booton's  letter  to  you  constitute  in  any  sense  an  audit  of  the  Old 
Hickory  construction  or  operation? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Neither  of  the  documents  were  an  audit,  nor  did 
they  contain  details  of  the  supporting  papers.  They  contained  sum- 
maries, totals,  and  comments  upon  some  of  the  summaries.  The 
purpose  of  our  inquiry  was  to  ascertain  for  what  the  $80,000,000 
had  been  paid  in  the  construction  of  the  Old  Hickory  plant.  We 
were  interested  primarily  in  finding  out  if  there  had  been  any 
overpayments,  if  there  were  any  moneys  due  the  United  States,  and 
how  this  payment  had  been  checked  by  the  War  Department.  We 
Avere  not  criticizing.    We  were  endeavoring  to  find  out. 

The  reply  of  Major  Booton  added  nothing  to  what  we  already 
knew, 

Mr.  Hiss,  Is  Mr.  Moore,  of  the  Department  of  Justice,  here? 


3240  MuisriTioNS  industry 

TESTIMONY  OF  R.  M.  MOORE 

(The  witness  was  duly  sworn  by  the  chairman.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Moore,  will  you  state  your  name  and  position  for 
the  record? 

Mr.  MooRE.  K.  M.  Moore,  chief,  division  of  records,  Department 
of  Justice. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Moore,  do  you  have  charge  of  supervision  of  the 
files  of  the  War  Transactions  Section,  which  are  still  retained  by  the 
Department  of  Justice? 

Mr.  Moore.  I  do. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  show  you  a  copy  of  a  letter  dated  June  15,  1923, 
from  Major  Booton  to  Major  Carnduff,  which  has  already  been 
introduced  in  evidence  as  "  Exhibit  No.  1177."  This  copy  was  fur- 
nished us  by  the  War  Department.  Can  you  identify  that  as  a 
letter,  the  original  of  which  is  now  in  the  files  of  the  Department  of 
Justice  [handing  paper  to  witness]  ? 

Mr.  MooRE.  It  is. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Have  you  examined  the   files  containing  that  letter? 

Mr.  MooRE.  Just  this  letter  alone,  not  the  files. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  mean,  have  you  found  that  letter  in  your  files? 

Mr.  Moore.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Hiss.  What  enclosures,  if  any,  are  attached  to  the  letter  in 
the  files  of  the  Department  of  Justice  ? 

Mr.  Moore.  There  are  no  enclosures. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  is  all,  Mr.  Moore.    Thank  you. 

(Witness  excused.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  Major  Carnduff,  you  are  familiar  with  the  hearings 
which  Mr.  Gregg  has  described? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  think  I  conducted  them  on  the  part  of  the 
Government.    I  am  familiar  with  them. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  show  you  an  excerpt  from  the  stenographic  tran- 
script, being  pages  284  and  285,  which  I  will  ask  to  have  appro- 
priately numbered. 

(The  excerpt  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  1178"  and 
is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3337.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  ask  you  if  that  refreshes  your  recollection  as  to  the 
competence  of  Mr.  Kileen  as  an  auditor  or  accountant.  I  call  your 
attention  particularly  to  a  question  which  you  asked  Mr.  Kileen. 
Was  Mr.  Kileen  under  oath  at  this  time,  Major  Carnduff? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  He  was  not.  This  was  a  joint  hearing  of  the  War 
Department  and  the  Department  of  Justice  and  the  testimony  was 
given  without  oath. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Was  this  a  public  hearing? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  It  was  a  private  executive  hearing  and  the  hear- 
ing was  confidential. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Have  the  records  ever  been  published  of  that  hearing? 
Mr.  Carnduff.  Unless  they  were  published  before  some  senatorial 
or  congressional  committee,  they  have  not. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Your  question,  at  the  top  of  this  page,  of  Mr.  Kileen, 
was  as  follows : 

Mr.  Kileen,  we  have  asked  each  of  the  accountants  giving  opinions  here 
to  give  a  brief  resume  of  their  experience  as  accountants,  and  I  would  like 
to  ask  you  the  .same  question :    Namely,  are  you  a  certified  public  accountant? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3241 

To  which  Mr.  Kileen  replied — 

No,  sir. 

Your  next  question  was — 

Have  you  been  a  senior  accountant? 

Mr.  Kileen  replied: 

I  was  given  that  grade  by  civil  service,  that  is  all.  Never  served  in  public 
accounting. 

You  asked  him: 

Oh,  you  never  serv'ed  in  public  accounting? 

He  replied — 

No,  sir. 

You  then  asked  him  to  give  briefly  his  experience  in  accounting 
before  entering  the  Government  service.    He  stated  that  he — 

attended  the  Utica  Business  College,  and  left  there  to  accept  a  position  in  a 
wholesale  jobbing  and  hardware  concern,  a  clerical  position. 

He  said  he — 
was  there  about  two  years  and  a  half. 

His— 

next  position  was  with  the  General  Electric  Co. — 

where  he 

held  the  positions  of  claim  chaser,  claim  clerk,  assistant  to  the  head  of  the 
distribution  department,  and  was  later  given  charge  of  the  distribution  de- 
partment, making  a  service  of  7  or  8  years  with  the  General  Electric  Co.  I 
then  made  application  to  the  civil  service,  and  was  assigned  to  the  Ordnance 
Department  in   March  1918. 

You  then  asked  him  what  his  rating  was,  and  he  replied : 

Senior  accountant.     In   the  civil  service. 

You  asked  him  if  he  ever  examined  "  the  books  of  the  du  Pont 
Engineering  Co.  "  and  he  replied  that  he  had  examined  the  general 
books. 

He  answered: 

I  have  worked  on  the  cash  books  to  determine  the  cash  transactions,  the 
accounts  payable  registers,  and  the  cost  records  and  journal  entries. 

He  said  he  did  this  while  in  the  employ  of  the  United  States 
Government. 
You  asked  him  "  for  what  purpose  "  this  was  done,  and  he  said : 
The  purpose  of  this  audit,  under  Major  Farr. 
You  then  asked  him: 

But  you  never  made  any  general  examination  of  the  operating  books  of 
the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.?  " 

And  he  replied: 

No,  sir ;  only  for  the  purpose  of  this  audit,  under  Major  Fair. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  There  is  a  final  sentence  there,  which  is  also  im- 
portant. 


3242  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Hiss.  Your  statement  at  the  end,  after  the  witness  had  been 
excused,  was — 

I  might  say,  Colonel,  that  I  have  not  sent  for  Mr.  Kileen,  as  I  did  not 
consider  his  evidence  would  much  more  than  corroborate  all  of  what  Major 
Farr  would  tell  us,  and  of  course  I  didn't  even  know  how  he  got  here. 

After  refreshing  your  recollection  with  this  excerpt  from  the  hear- 
ing, Mr.  Carnduff,  what  is  your  present  memory  of  your  opinion 
of  Mr.  Kileen's  accounting  ability? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Mr.  Kileen  worked  in  a  clerical  capacity  under 
Major  Farr,  and  Major  Farr  at  that  time  was  an  attorney  in  the 
Department  of  Justice.  He  was  in  charge  of  Mr.  Kileen  and 
naturally  could  tell  us  anything  that  Mr.  Kileen  could  have  told 
us.  We  felt  that  Mr.  Kileen  was  not  competent  to  make  an  audit 
of  an  $83,000,000  transaction. 

I  might  add  that  I  felt  that  Mr.  Kileen  had  never  made  such 
an  audit, 

Mr.  Hiss.  Will  .you  describe  the  kind  of  audit  that  was  made 
by  Major  Farr? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  can  only  describe  that  from  Major  Farr's  testi- 
mony before  this  Board,  and  I  have  every  confidence  that  his 
testimony  was  accurate.  He  stated  that  a  spot  check  was  made  of 
expenditures,  and  he  stated  that  approximately  1  in  10  vouchers 
were  checked  on  this  review  and  reaudit. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Was  that  checking  a  matter  of  an  official  order? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  He  stated  at  this  investigation  that  this  spot  check 
was  made  upon  the  order  of  C.  C.  Williams,  who  was  then  Chief  of 
Ordnance. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  call  your  attention  to  a  further  excerpt  from  this 
hearing.  This  is  at  page  52.  I  will  ask  that  that  be  appropriately 
numbered. 

(The  excerpt  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No,  1179  "  and 
appears  in  full  in  the  text.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Cameron  asked  Mr.  Guise  a  question.  Can  you 
identify  Mr.  Guise? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  believe  that  Guise  at  one  time  was  a  reserve 
major.  At  any  rate,  he  was  engaged  in  auditing  work  on  the  Old 
Hickory  contract,  but  discontinued  that  work  before  it  was  com- 
pleted, 

Mr,  Irenee  du  Pont.  Which  audit  was  that? 

Mr,  Carnduff.  To  the  best  of  my  recollection,  that  was  one  of  the 
original  audits. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  On  the  plant,  prior  to  when  construction  was 
going? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  And  did  the  vouchers  on  that  construction 
work  all  bear  the  signature  of  an  Army  officer  approving  them? 

Mr.  Carnduff,  I  do  not  know,  because  I  did  not  see  any  of  those 
vouchers. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  You  did  not  see  any  of  those  vouchers? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  That  is,  I  never  got  that  far  with  this  case. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Cameron,  whom  you  have  already  identified,  asked 
Mr.  Guise  the  following  question  ("  Exhibit  No.  1179  ")  : 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3243 

Wei'e  you  called  upon  to  audit  the  cost  of  operation? 

Mr.  Guise.  That  was  not  started  at  the  time  I  left.  We  were  beginning  to 
audit  quantities. 

Does  that  mean  left  Old  Hickory  ? 

Mr,  Carnduff,  I  do  not  know. 

Mr.  Hiss.  He  was  stationed  at  Old  Hickory  at  one  time,  was  he 
not? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  He  said  he  was.  I  do  not  know  of  my  own  knowl- 
edge. 

Mr.  Hiss  (reading)  : 

That  wiis  not  started  at  the  time  I  left.  We  were  beginning  to  audit  quan- 
tities. 

Mr.  Cameeon.  But  did  you  not  make  the  statement  that  it  could  not  be 
done  now? 

Mr.  Guise.  I  do  not  think  that  a  real  audit,  on  account  of  the  lack  of 
records,  cuuld  be  made  now — definitely  and  legally  audited ;  I  will  put  it 
that  way. 

Did  you  ever  visit  the  Old  Hickory  site  j^ourself,  Major  Carnduff? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  did  during  the  course  of  this  investigation,  yes, 
visit  Old  Hickory  in  company  with  Mr.  McLane,  the  district  at- 
torney; Mr.  Cunningham,  assistant  to  the  head  of  investigation.  De- 
partment of  Justice ;  and  Mr.  Cameron,  in  charge  of  audits. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Did  you  find  any  records  of  the  transactions  at  the 
plant  location? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  There  were  no  records  that  could  be  utilized  at 
Old  Hickory  at  that  time.  I  might  say  that  was  about  the  middle 
of  1923.  We  found  some  records  that  were  valueless,  and  we  found 
th:it  there  were  records  at  Wilmington,  Del. 

Mr.  Hiss,  Can  you  identify  Mr.  G.  E.  Youmans?  [Handing 
paper  to  witness.] 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Mr.  Youmans  was  a  man  who  had  been  employed 
in  auditing  work  or  investigating  work  in  conection  with  the  du 
Pont  contracts.  I  believe  he  was  an  auditor  working  under  the 
direction  of  Major  Farr,  somewhat  similar  to  Mr.  Kileen. 

Mr,  Hiss.  I  will  offer  that  document  for  the  record. 

(The  document  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  1180"  and 
is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3338.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Kileen's  audit,  to  the  extent  that  it  was  an  audit, 
was  as  a  clerk,  you  said,  under  Major  Farr? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Right. 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  Mr.  Youmans  was  also  under  Major  Farr? 

Mr.  Carnduff,  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  call  your  attention  to  a  further  excerpt  from  the 
hearinsis,  referring  merely  to   pages   87   and   88.     You   asked  Mr. 
Youmans  to  state  his  position,  and  he  replied : 
Supervisor  of  collector's  office. 

Of  Internal  Revenue,  I  assume. 

You  then  asked  him  to  state  his  former  connections  having  to  do 
with  the  du  Pont  Engineering  transaction.     He  replied : 

My  first  connection  with  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  contracts  was  In 
December  1919. 

Colonel  Anderson  then  said  : 

You  refer  now  to  the  Old  Hickory,  do  you? 
83876— 35— PT  14 6 


3244  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Youmans  replied  that  he  was  never  there  except  once,  he 
believed,  "  but  not  during  the  active  operation  of  the  contract." 
He  then  stated  as  follows : 

Then  as  accountant  in  charge  under  Mr.  Cobb,  supervisor  of  the  cost 
accounting  branch  of  the  Philadelphia  district.  Subsequently  I  became  super- 
visor of  the  Philadelphia  district,  the  cost  accounting  branch,  and  continued 
the  supei-vision  of  the  audit  of  these  contracts.  And  I  continued  in  that 
•capacity  until  about  September  1921,  at  M^hich  time  Major  Farr,  a  special 
representative  of  the  Secretary  of  War,  took  entire  charge  of  the  audit  of 
the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  contracts,  and  then  I  continued  to  operate  under 
his  direction  until  some  time  in  November  1921,  at  which  time  I  resigned. 

Was  Mr.  Youmans  under  oath  at  this  time.  ]SIr.  Carnduff  ? 

Mr.  Carisduff.  He  was  not,  to  my  knowledge. 

Mr.  Hiss.  None  of  these  statements  were  made  under  oath  at  this 
hearing  ? 

Mr,  Carnduff.  I  think  not. 

Mr.  Hiss.  It  was  an  informal  hearing  before  the  war  transactions 
section^      Is  that  correct? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  It  was  a  hearing  to  determine  whether  the  De- 
partment of  Justice  should  investigate  and  close  this  Old  Hickory 
contract,  or  whether  the  War  Department  should  continue  its  nego- 
tiations toward  a  settlement. 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  asked  Mr.  Youmans  to  state  the  circumstances  of 
his  resignation,  and  he  replied: 

I  resigned  so  that  I  could,  in  my  private  capacity,  make  a  report  to  the 
Comptroller  General,  placing  before  him  in  this  report  certain  matters  that 
I  thought  he  might  not  leam  of  through  the  settlement  or  award  that  was 
being  prepared  en  these  contracts. 

You  asked  him: 

Just  tell  the  Board  what  the  basis  of  your  report  was,  briefly,  and  the 
i"«asons  for  it. 

He  replied: 

Why,  I  prepared  a  statement  which  included  items  that  he  had  previously 
disapproved. 

General  Williams  asked  him: 

Who  had  previously  disapproved? 

He  replied : 

The  Comptroller  General. 

He  went  on  to  state : 

Showing  the  disposition  that  had  been  made  of  them  by  the  present  control 
over  the  audit  of  these  contracts.  It  was  impossible  to  get  an  advance  ruling 
on  the  items  and  principles  involved  in  this  audit  without  presenting  a  bona 
fide  voucher.  So  in  tlie  course  of  time  vouchers  were  prepared,  and  attached 
to  them  were  the  contractor's  receipted  vouchers  supiwrting  them.  These 
vouchers  embodied  practically  all  of  the  principal  disputed  items,  and  his 
decision  regarding  the  propriety  of  payment  resulted  in  practically  an  inter- 
pretation of  the  contract,  and  in  a  great  measure  supported  the  intei-preta- 
tions  that  had  already  been  given  by  the  cost  accounting  branch. 

Did  you  understand  that  testimony  to  mean  that  vouchers  were 
prepared  not  only  after  the  transactions  had  taken  place  but  after 
the  transactions  liad  been  questioned? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Vouchers  had  been  prepared,  but  that  did  not 
mean  that  they  had  been  paid.     They  were  referred  to  some  higher 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  3245 

authority,  to  see  whether  the  amount  vouchered  should  be  allowed 
as  a  disbursement  by  the  du  Pont  Co.  However,  Major  Booton's 
letter  to  me  admitted  that  several  vouchered  items  had  been  paid. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  call  your  attention  to  a  further  place  in  Mr.  Youman's 
testimony,  the  second  page  of  this  excerpt,  being  pages  106  and  107. 

(The  document  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1181  "  and 
is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3338.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  refer  to  the  next  to  the  last  answer;  no,  I  will  read  all 
of  it  [reading]  : 

Mr.  Anderson.  What  was  the  general  character  of  your  report  to  the  Comiv 
troHer  General?    Merely  a  protest  against  payment? 

Mr.  Youmans  replied : 

It  was  not  a  protest  even.  I  criticized  no  one  at  all.  Merely  presented  some 
facts  that  I  wanted  to  get  to  him  so  that  he  would  be  warned  and  know 
what  that  lump  sum  might  contain. 

Colonel  Anderson  asked : 

And  it  dealt  chiefly  with  the  items  that  you  reviewed? 

Mr.  Youmans  replied : 

Yes ;  and  I  showed  the  action  taken  by  Major  Farr  on  those  same  items. 

Colonel  Anderson  asked: 

Well,  what  was  that  action? 

Mr.  Youmans  replied : 

Approved  all  the  items  that  the  Comptroller  General  had  suspended. 

At  a  further  place  in  Mr.  Youmans'  testimony,  pages  110  and  111, 
lie  stated : 

Operating  costs  had  not  been  gone  into  on  any  of  those  contracts.  We  were 
still  waiting  for  a  decision  as  to  the  necessity  of  furnishing  proof  of  delivery 
•of  material.  That  was  still  an  open  question.  Operating  costs  were  not  to  be 
gone  into  until  after  that  was  determined. 

I  offer  that  for  appropriate  number. 

(The  excerpt  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1182  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3339.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  Again  at  page  114  Mr.  Youmans  testified : 
We  questioned  every  voucher,  hut  not  prices. 
He  was  asked  by  Colonel  Hull : 
You  didn't  go  into  the  prices  of  any  of  these? 
And  he  replied: 
On  anything. 

Colonel  Anderson  asked : 
Why  did  you  leave  the  prices  entirely  alone? 
Mr.  Youmans  replied : 

Why,  we  were  so  advised  by — I  think  it  was  the  District  Claims  Board  at 
the  time. 

Colonel  Anderson  asked: 

In  other  words,  you  didn't  undertake  to  verify  the  fact  that  the  amount 
-charged  the  Government  was  the  price  paid  by  the  du  Pont  Co.  for  the  stuff 
at  all? 


3246  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Youmans  replied : 
No. 

I  offer  that  for  appropriate  number. 

(The  excerpt  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No,  1183  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3339.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  Can  you  identify  J.  R.  Peebles,  Major  Carnduff  [hand- 
ing paper  to  witness]  ? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Peebles  was  either  an  accountant  or  investigator 
who  was  employed  at  some  time  or  other  on  those  Old  Hickory 
contracts. 

Mr.  Hiss.  At  page  132  Mr.  Peebles  testified  that  you  were  correct 
in  stating  that  he  had  formerly  been  contracting  officer  of  the 
du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  contracts,  and  succeeded  Major  Guise  as 
contracting  officer. 

You  then  placed  in  evidence  a  letter  dated  December  13,  1921, 
headed  "Subject:  Elimination  of  detailed  summaries." 

As  a  result  of  confei'ences  held  in  AVasliington,  December  10,  1921,  you  are 
hereby  directed  to  discontinue  preparation  of  detailed  summaries. 

It  has  been  decided  the  only  information  necessary  is  the  voucher  number 
and  amount  which  will  permit  tieing  up  the  charges  with  the  contract  and 
the  contractor's  books. 

That  was  signed  by  R.  R.  Farr,  special  representative  of  the 
Assistant  Secretary  of  War. 

I  offer  that  for  appropriate  number. 

(The  excerpt  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1184  "  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3340.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  At  page  155  Mr.  Peebles  testified  that  he  had  "  had 
charge  of  a  number  of  large  operations  for  the  Government  "  in 
the  form  of  audits. 

You  then  asked  him  if  the  Old  Hickory  transaction  w^as  handled 
in  the  same  way  as  the  others.  "•  Was  it  handled  the  same  way  as 
you  handled  other  transactions?" 

And  he  replied — 

No,  sir ;  because  we  completed  the  audit  as  prescribed  by  the  Comptroller. 

I  offer  that  for  appropriate  number. 

(The  excerpt  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1185  "  and 
is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3340.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  Did  you  understand  that  to  mean  that  in  other  cases 
he  had  completed  an  audit  prescribed  by  the  Comptroller,  but  had 
not  in  this  case  ? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  understood  that  to  mean  that  in  other  cases  he 
had  completed  his  audit  in  the  method  prescribed  by  the  Comp- 
troller, but  in  the  Old  Hickory  case  he  had  done  it  the  way  Major 
Farr  had  told  him  to  do  it,  in  that  manner,  which  was  not  the  same 
way. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  call  your  attention  to  an  office  order,  No.  1,  dated 
May  9,  1918,  which  appears  ;at  page  187  and  following  pages  of  the 
hearings  referred  to,  which  I  offer  for  appropriate  number. 

(The  document  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1186  "  and 
is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3340.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  This  is  headed   [reading]  : 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3247 

Routing  to  be  followed  by  United  States  Army  Ordnance  Inspection  Force, 
Old  Hickoi-y  powder  plant,  Nashville.  Tenn.,  governing  construction  under 
contract  No.  War.  Order  P^755-711-E — 

which  is  the  number  of  the  Old  Hickory  contract. 
At  page  2  of  this  excerpt,  item  (C)  1,  it  reads : 

At  least  10  percent  of  the  documents  received  in  this  office  without  stip- 
Dorting  papers  will  be  held  out  and  will  be  forwarded  to  the  contractor  with 
request  for  supporting  papers. 

Do  you  know  whether  that  procedure  of  holding  out  at  least 
1.0  percent  was  limited  to  holding  out  only  10  percent? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  do  not  know  anything  about  that.  I  had  noth- 
ing to  do  with  War  Departaiient  orders,  so  that  I  cannot  give  any 
opinion  on  that. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  show  you  a  copy  of  a  report  dated  September  12,  1918, 
from  Robert  L.  Oden,  Chief  Clerk,  Ordnance  Department,  to  Capt. 
George  K.  Foulke,  Jr.,  which  I  offer  for  appropriate  number. 

(The  document  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1187  "  and 
is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3343.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  states  [reading]  : 

Subject :  Develo])ment  of  Construction  Inspection,  per  office  order  No.  1  at  Old 
Hickory  powder  plant. 

1.  Reference:  Paragraph  III,  C-4,  subparagraphs  (a)  to  {g)  inclusive,  of 
office  order  no.  1. 

The  monthly  report  referred  to  in  the  reference  is  made  up  and  on  hand 
at  this  office  for  reference  on  demand,  for  each  month  commencing  .Tune  1,  to 
date.  The  net  result  of  reports  for  June,  .July,  and  August  is  summarized  be- 
low in  accordance  with  the  reference,  except  for  the  omission  of  subparagraph 
(a)  in  the  reference,  whicli  reuds  "The  total  number  of  documents  received 
for  each  class  of  material  during  the  month  for  inspection." 

(h)   Grand  total  of  documents  received  to  September  1 54,965 

(c)   Total  number  of  documents  checked  for  supporting  papers  by  this 

office  to  September  1 5.  371 

id)   Total  number  of  documents  found  to  be  correct  upon  check  for  sup- 
porting papers  to  September  1 5,  371 

In  the  case  of  (c)  it  was  approximately  10  percent  of  the  total 
number  received,  and  in  the  case  of  (d)  it  was  100  percent  of  the 
items  checked. 

Paragraph  II.  Underneath  that  is : 

(a)   Total  number  of  "check  comparisons  "  made  to  September  1 4,  765 

(ft)   Total  numl)er  of  "  check  comparisons  "  found  to  be  correct 3,  561 

(c)   Total  number  of  "check  comparisons"  found  to  be  incorrect 1,204 

Under  (e)   [reading]  : 

Percentage  of  "  check  comparisons "  found  to  be  incorrect,  based  on  total 
number  of  "  check  comparisons  "  made  to  September  1,  25.2  percent. 

Under  paragraph  III  it  states  [reading]  : 

A  study  of  the  figures  given  herewith,  together  with  a  complete  understanding 
■of  the  situation  reveals  a  discrepancy.  First  of  all,  it  will  be  noted  that  all 
vouchers  when  submitted  to  this  office  for  final  inspection  and  passing,  appar- 
ently have  complete  supporting  papers.  Secondly,  it  will  lie  noted  that  in  25.2 
percent  of  all  the  cases  which  have  been  checked  by  this  office  and  which  consti- 
tute 8.6  percent  of  the  total  documents  received,  supporting  papers  could  not 
be  furnished  at  the  point  and  by  the  office  where  these  supporting  papers  are 
supposed  to  originate  in  every  case.  In  other  words,  apparently  whenever  a 
field  checker's  report  was  not  available  to  cover  a  given  voucher,  and  payment 
was  desired  on  the  same,  a  field  checker's  report  was  made  up  from  the  face 
of  the  voucher,  attached  thereto,  certified,  and  forwarded  to  the  Army  inspector 
of  ordnance  for  signature  as  a  proper  supporting  document. 


3248  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

I  offer  for  the  record  a  statement  furnished  by  the  War  Depart- 
ment as  to  Mr.  Foulke's  personal  history  before  he  entered  the  War 
Department. 

(The  document  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1188  "  and 
is  inckided  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3344.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  shows  that  he  was  employed  by  the  du  Pont  Pow- 
der Co.  in  various  services  from  1911  until  February,  1916;  that  he 
then  went  to  the  Aetna  Explosives  Co.  until  January,  1917,  and  then 
was  with  the  Ball  Grain  Explosives  Co.  until  he  entered  the  Army. 

Do  you  know  what  the  Ball  Grain  Explosives  Co.  is,  Mr.  Gregg? 
Have  you  ever  heard  of  the  Ball  Grain  Explosives  Co.,  Wilmington, 
Del.? 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  have  not. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  What  is  the  name? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Ball  Grain  Explosives  Co. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Lieutenant  Foulke,  Jr. 

Mr.  Irenee  du  Pont.  I  gather  from  the  name  of  the  man  and  the 
fact  that  the  explosives  company  is  at  Wilmington,  that  must  be  a 
black  powder  proposition  started  by  E.  Paul  du  Pont,  who  married 
a  Miss  Foulke,  and  that  is  what  it  was,  I  think,  and  what  it  refers  to. 

Mr.  Hiss.  The  order  of  May  9  directing  a  check  of  10  percent  of 
the  documents  received  was  signed  by  Lieutenant  Foulke,  as  Army 
Inspector  of  Ordnance.    Was  he  in  charge  of  auditing  at  one  time  ? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  think  that  my  investigation  developed  that  Cap 
tain  Foulke  was  in  charge  of  checking  at  the  Old  Hickory  plant.    Htj 
was  in  charge  of  some  bookkeeping  device  at  the  plant  for  the  Army, 
as  a  reserve  officer. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  show  you  a  letter  dated  June  7,  1918,  from  Lieutenant 
Foulke  to  Lt.  Col.  F.  H.  Miles,  Jr.,  which  I  offer  for  the  record. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  liSS-A"  and  is 
inchided  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3345.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  Paragraph  7,  the  last  page,  states : 

It  is  realized  most  keenly  that  the  inspection  outlined  in  office  order  no.  1  is 
not  a  100  percent  inspection.  It  is  felt,  however,  that  if  properly  carried  out, 
it  is  reasonably  certain  to  develop  any  troubles  which  may  exist  and  provide  a 
remedy  for  them  and  that  no  more  certain  system  of  inspection  can  be  devised 
to  meet  the  conditions  short  of  an  absolute  100-percent  inspection.  This  last  is 
practically  out  of  the  question.  The  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  and  the  subcon- 
tractors are  conducting  a  lOO^percent  inspection.  In  doing  this  the  du  Pont 
Engineering  Co.  is  employing  100  checkers  and  the  subcontractor's  force  is 
approximately  100  checkers  covering  incoming  material  alone,  while  an  office 
force  of  several  hundred  people  is  maintained  to  do  the  necessary  paper  work. 
In  addition  to  these  men,  there  is  a  small  army  engaged  in  checking  the  dis- 
tribution of  material,  auditing  vouchers,  etc.  Inasmuch  as  the  du  Pont  Engi- 
neering Co.'s  files  are  open  at  all  times  to  the  Government  and  will  eventually 
be  turned  over  to  the  Government,  it  is  felt  that  to  institute  a  check  on  them 
which  would  cover  the  work  as  they  are  doing  would  involve  a  waste  of  men 
and  money  and  a  loss  of  time  which  would  not  be  justified. 

This  is  dated  while  construction  and  operation  were  still  going  on, 
June  7,  1918? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  That  is  riglit. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  now  refer  to  page  170  of  the  hearings,  which  I  will 
offer  for  appropriate  number. 

(The  excerpt  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1189  "  and  is 
inckided  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3346.) 


MUK^TIONS    INDUSTRY  3249 

Mr.  Hiss.  There  appears  a  statement  by  General  Williams.  Gen- 
eral Williams  was  on  the  Board  hearing  the  testimony  brought 
forth  by  you? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  He  was  sitting  as  a  member  of  this  Board,  which 
was  to  determine  whether  Justice  or  the  War  Department  should 
close  the  contract  with  the  du  Fonts,  and  he  made  the  statements 
you  are  about  to  read.    I  have  seen  them  before. 

Mr.  Hiss,   (reading)  : 

General  Williams.  I  am  willing  to  say  this:  I  think  that  under  the  con- 
tract I,  as  Chief  of  Ordnance,  would  have  had  authority  to  direct  a  10-percent 
audit.  Furthermore,  I  will  say  that  under  the  circumstances — the  question 
never  was  brought  to  me,  but  under  the  circumstances  had  it  been  broujiht 
to  me,  I  would  have  directed  such  an  audit. 

Mr.  McLane 

Who  w^as  Mr.  McLane  ? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  He  was  United  States  district  attorney  for  the 
middle  district  of  Tennessee,  at  Nashville,  Tenn. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Was  he  assisting  at  this  time  in  the  preparation  and 
investigation  of  this  case? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  He  was  urging  that  the  Department  of  Justice 
investigate  the  Old  Hickory  transaction.  He  was  assisting  us  to 
some  extent,  but  at  one  of  the  hearings  he  became  very  angry 
and  withdrew  from  the  hearing.  At  this  time  I  presume  he  was 
still  assisting.     I  do  not  know. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  McLean  asked: 

What  I  was  driving  at  is,  who  did  direct  it? 

General  Williams.  I  will  admit  the  responsibility  for  directing  that  audit. 

Mr.  Guise,  later  on  at  the  same  page,  is  recorded  as  having  made 
the  following  statement: 

This  10  percent  that  has  been  referred  to  is  not  an  audit ;  it  never  was  an 
audit.  The  10-percent  method  referred  to  was  the  method  used  in  checking, 
the  quantity  and  class  of  incoming  materials. 

Colonel  Anderson  asked  him : 

That  was  true  of  the  period  of  construction  and  operation. 

And  Mr.  Guise  replied : 

During  the  operation.  There  was  practically  no  check  ever  found  on  the 
operation  materials. 

He  stated,  at  the  bottom  of  the  same  page  [reading]  : 

This  was  not  the  audit.  Do  not  get  "  audit "  and  "  check  "  mixed.  An 
audit  is  an  entirely  different  thing  from  a  check.  The  Army  inspector  of  ord- 
nance, under  the  old  system  that  was  carried  along  to  some  extent  in  the  new — 
although  we  were  relieved  to  some  extent  of  his  responsibility  for  property — 
was  the  representative  in  the  field  and  had  to  assume  property  accountability 
for  all  materials  received  and  paid  for  by  the  Government.  In  tliese  cost- 
plus  contracts  the  miscellaneous  items  that  made  up  the  material  being 
manufactured  by  the  contractor  had  to  be  checked ;  the  actual  final  cost 
of  the  article  had  to  be  checked  in  under  the  same  method. 

The  Army  inspector  was  given  a  group  of  men — sometimes  depending  on 
his  discretion,  and  generally  depending  on  how  far  he  made  his  check,  more 
than  anything  else— for  several  purposes ;  primarily,  we  may  say,  so  far  as 
incoming  materials  are  concerned,  to  check  against  the  quantity  and  quality 
received.  Secondarily,  to  check  against  processes  in  producing  the  material. 
Normally  it  was  expected  that  a  complete  check  would  be  made  on  the  receipt 
of  materials.  That  was  had ;  there  was  no  reversal  that  I  know  of  at  any 
time  of  the  Ordnance  Department  regulations  in   that  direction.     Of  course- 


3250  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

I  had  myself  about  8  months  of  inspection  work,  and  during  that  period  I 
had  the  old-time  method,  and  I  had  the  old-time  property  accounts.  I  only 
had  nine  all  told  to  take  care  of. 

In  this  case  the  evidence  that  it  was  possible  to  secure,  together  with  a 
copy  of  the  order  issued  by  Lieutenant  Foulke,  indicated  that  a  10  percent 
check  was  made  on  the  receipt  of  the  material.  That  is,  out  of,  we  will  say, 
100  vouchers,  10  vouchers  would  be  pulled  out  and  checked  up,  and  the  100 
accepted  as  being  correct  if  the  10  were  correct. 

Who  was  the  chairman  of  this  committee? 

Mr.  Caknduff.  Dwight  F.  Davis,  Assistant  Secretary  of  War. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Davis  asked: 

Was  that  the  customary  practice  in  the  case  of  a  large  contract  of  this  sort 
in  those  times,  or  was  tliat  specially  in  this  particular  case? 

Mr.  Guise.  Well,  I  don't  know.  This  was  the  only  case  anyway  where  I 
definitely  came  in  touch  with  that  particular  practice.  As  I  stated,  in  my 
property  accounts  I  always  worked  on  the  old  method.  Even  over  in  France 
I  used  the  old  system. 

I  also  offer  for  the  record  at  this  time  a  memorandum  to  the  As- 
sistant Attorney  General  in  regard  to  a  preliminary  investigation 
of  the  Old  Hickory  powder  plant,  prepared  by  George  W.  Storck, 
expert  bank  accountant. 

(The  memorandum  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1190  ", 
and  is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3347.)^ 

Mr.  Hiss.  When  the  Department  of  Justice  came  into  the  case 
was  any  complete  audit  undertaken,  so  far  as  you  know?  I  call 
your  attention  to  these  excerpts  from  Mr.  Cameron's  report,  page  8. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Without  that  I  can  answer  that  as  far  as  I  was 
able  to  ascertain,  or  anyone  working  for  me  or  with  me,  we  had  no 
complete  audit  with  which  to  investigate  the  Old  Hickory  plant. 
So  far  as  I  know  there  never  was  any  audit  that  was  shown  to  us 
or  that  we  knew  about. 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  page  8  of  Mr.  Cameron's  report  there  is  a  heading 
^'  Scope  of  examination." 

It  was  an  undertaking  to  determine  the  balance  due  from  the  du  Pont  Engi- 
neering Co.  on  August  31,  1924,  qualified,  however,  in  that  accountants  of  this 
imit  accepted  as  the  base  the  balances  as  shown  on  the  books  of  the  du  Pont 
Engineering  Co.  as  of  May  31,  1922.  These  balances  of  May  31,  1922,  were 
reviewed  by  the  then  War  Department  examiner,  W.  G.  Kileen,  and  were  made 
the  subject  matter  of  a  report. 

That  is  the  report  you  have  already  testified  about  as  being  sent 
to  you,  Major  Carnduff? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  That  Kileen  report  is  the  second  document  in  the 
letter  sent  to  me  by  Major  Booton  in  June  1923. 

Mr.  Hiss  (reading)  : 

The  report  of  May  31,  1922,  made  by  the  auditors  for  the  War  Department, 
was  brought  up  by  your  examiners  to  August  31,  1924.  All  charges  and  credits 
appearing  on  the  books  of  the  company  between  these  dates  wert  audited  by 
this  section.  It  should  he  observed  that  a  reaudit  of  the  whole  of  the  accounts 
was  not  undertaken  by  this  unit. 

It  was  apparent  that  no  attempt  was  ever  made  by  the  company  or  by  the 
War  Department  to  i-econcile  the  finance  records  of  the  Government  with  the 
books  of  the  company. 

Theie  are  expenditures  aggregating  $35,323,732.84  yet  to  be  put  through  the 
finance  division  for  which  no  public  vouchers  have  ever  been  issued. 

1  In  connection  with  "Exhibit  No.  1100",  Mr.  Grepg  under  date  of  Apr.  26,  lO.SS, 
submitted  a  brief  which  i.s  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  ;?516. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3251 

On  August  5,  1925,  the  Attorney  General  wrote  to  the  Secretary  of 
War. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1191  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3352.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  He  stated  in  the  last  paragraph  as  follows : 

In  conclusion,  may  I  emphasize  tlie  fact  that,  in  accordance  with  my  under- 
standing of  your  wishes,  expressed  in  your  letter  of  May  23,  1924,  this  Depart- 
ment lias  made  no  general  investigation  into  the  payments  made  to  the  du  Pout 
Co.  in  the  course  of  its  work  under  the  contracts  in  question. 

Furtliermore,  this  Department  has  for  obvious  reasons  made  no  effort  to  pass 
upon  the  accuracy  or  completeness  of  the  War  Department's  audit  in  this  case. 

Was  that  the  final  action  taken  by  the  Department  of  Justice  so 
far  as  you  know  in  this  case? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  do  not  know,  because  after  this  meeting  in 
December  1924  I  was  taken  off  the  case — in  1923,  I  mean.  So  I  was 
not  in  the  Department  of  Justice. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Did  you  make  any  recommendation  prior  to  your  being 
taken  off  the  case.  Major  Carnduff  ? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Yes,  sir;  and  it  was  acted  upon. 

Mr.  Hiss.  What  was  your  recommendation? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  recommended  to  the  Attorney  General  that  the 
contract  between  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  and  the  Government, 
commonly  known  as  the  "  Jackling  contract  ",  be  investigated  by  the 
Department  of  Justice  to  the  end  that  a  final  accounting  be  made, 
and  that  all  papers,  documents,  and  records  connected  with  it  be 
transferred  by  the  War  Department  to  the  Department  of  Justice 
for  investigation  and  action  if  action  were  indicated.  And  that 
recommendation  was  approved.  That  was  done  late  in  December 
1923  after  the  meeting  at  which  the  whole  matter  was  discussed,  at 
which  Mr.  Gregg  and  Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont,  and  I  believe,  Mr.  Raskob, 
were  present. 

Mr.  Gregg.  No;  Mr.  Pierre  du  Pont  was  not  present  at  that,  nor 
was  Mr.  Raskob.     Mr.  Haskell  was  there. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  And  Mr.  Haskell  was  there ;  representatives  of  the 
du  Pont  Co. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Do  you  knoAv  whether  the  Comptroller  General  ever 
made  any  audit  of  the  Old  Hickory  contracts  ? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Up  to  the  time  I  was  taken  off  this  case  at  the  end 
of  December  1923  I  know  he  did  not. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  call  to  your  attention  a  letter  of  July  10,  1925,  which 
I  offer  as  an  exhibit,  from  the  Comptroller  General  of  the  United 
States  to  the  Attorney  General. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  1192",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3355.) 

Mr.  Hiss  (reacting)  : 

I  have  the  honor  to  call  your  attention  to  my  letter  of  April  18,  1925,  in  mat- 
ters pertaining  to  the  indebtness  to  the  United  States  of  the  du  Pont  En- 
gineering Co.  on  vx'hose  bond  the  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  is  surety,  and 
to  state  that  no  reply  has  been  received  to  my  said  letter. 

This  ofBce  is  especially  desirous  of  closing  up  the  audit  of  the  accounts  of  the 
du  Pont  Engineering  Co.,  but  it  cannot  do  so  until  the  accounts  are  received 
from  the  War  Department  and  the  Secretary  of  War  advises  that  the  accounts 
cannot  be  transmitted  to  this  office  until  the  case  is  returned  by  your  Depart- 
ment with  a  report  of  the  result  of  its  investigations  as  requested  by  the  War 
Department. 


3252  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

It  was  on  Au^ist  5  that  the  Attorney  General  wrote  to  the  War 
Department  as  already  stated  in  evidence.  On  October  23,  1925,  the 
Comptroller  General  wrote  a  further  letter  to  the  Attorney  General. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1193  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3355.) 

Mr.  Hiss  (reading)  : 

By  your  letter  of  July  24,  1925,  you  informed  this  office  tliat  the  case  of  the 
du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  would  prot)ably  be  closed  so  far  as  your  Department  is 
concerned  within  a  comparatively  short  time,  and  that  when  a  final  deter- 
mination had  hocn  m^de  as  to  the  matters  to  be  reported  to  the  War  Depart- 
ment, you  could  ccmmun'eate  to  this  office  the  character  of  any  indebtedness 
which  your  Department  considered  to  exist  again  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co. 
in  favor  of  the  United  States,  how  it  has  been  determined,  and  whether  it  is 
considered  by  your  Department  as  still  standing  against  either  the  du  Pont 
Engineering  Co.  or  the  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Co. 

As  no  further  information  about  the  matter  has  been  received,  I  have  the 
honor  to  request  the  present  status  of  the  matter  before  your  Department, 
and  if  it  is  possible  to  indicate  when  a  determination  will  be  reached,  request 
is  made  that  this  office  be  informed  about  it. 

On  October  26  Paul  Shipman  Andrews — was  he  in  the  Depart- 
ment of  Justice  ? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Paul  Shipman  Andrews  was  a  special  assistant  to 
the  Attorney  General  in  the  Department  of  Justice. 

Mr.  Hiss.  He  replied  to  the  Assistant  Comptroller  General  as 
follows : 

Your  letter  of  October  23  to  the  Attorney  General  has  been  referred  to  this 
office.  The  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  case  has  been  transferred  to  the  War 
Department  for  further  action  and  for  administrative  determination. 

In  other  words,  up  to  October  26  no  documents  could  have  been 
turned  over  to  the  Comptroller  General,  according  to  the  record  so 
far. 

(The  letter  referred  to  was  marked  "Exhibit  No.  1194",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3356.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  On  October  31,  5  days  after  the  letter  from  Mr.  An- 
drews, a  final  settlement  contract  was  entered  into  between  the 
United  States  of  America  and  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.,  signed  by 
H.  M.  Pierce,  president  of  the  Engineering  Co.,  and  by  Major 
O'Shaughnessy  on  behalf  of  the  United  States.  So  that  appar- 
ently the  Comptroller  General  could  not  have  made  a  very  com- 
plete audit  of  the  voluminous  records  involved  in  this  case  between 
October  26  and  October  31,  the  date  of  the  settlement  contract. 

I  offer  that  in  evidence. 

(The  contract  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1195  ",  and 
is  included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3356.)^ 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Gregg,  one  question  to  you. 

I  show  you  a  report  of  the  Government  Claims  Division  to  the 
executive  committee  of  the  du  Pont  Co.,  dated  December  18,  1922. 

(The  report  referred  to  was  marked  "  Exhibit  No.  1196  ",  and  is 
included  in  the  appendix  on  p.  3359.) 

Mr.  Hiss.  At  the  time  that  the  Comptroller  General  was  writing 
to  the  Attorney  General  what  matters  were  pending  before  the 
Comptroller  General  involving  the  du  Pont  Co.? 

^  An  Ordnance  Department  memorandum  prepared  in  connection  with  this  settlement 
contract  was  entered  into  the  record  as  "Exhibit  No.  1215",  see  Hearings,  Part  XV,  p. 
3578. 


MUNITIONS    INDUCTRY  3253 

Mr.  Gregg.  The  du  Pont  Co.  had  been  selling  material  from  time 
to  time  to  the  Government.  The  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  still  had 
a  certain  balance  in  its  possession  under  the  du  Pont  Engineering 
contracts. 

Mr.  Hiss.  An  undisputed  balance  that  it  admitted  it  owed  the 
Government  over  and  above  claims,  Mr.  Gregg? 

Mr.  Gregg.  In  other  words,  the  du  Pont  Engineering  matters  had 
not  been  closed  up  at  that  time.  They  were  still  under  investigation. 
We  still  had  a  certain  balance  in  our  hands,  and  the  Comptroller 
General  took  the  position  that  he  would  not  approve  payment  to 
E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  for  current  sales  of  materials  to  the 
Government  until  the  du  Pont  Engineering  contract  was  closed  up 
and  the  unused  balance  returned  to  the  Government. 

Mr.  Hiss.  May  I  call  your  attention  to  page  6  of  this  report, 
"  Exhibit  No.  1196  ",  which  states : 

Funds  on  hand  were,  November  30,  1922,  for  tbe  Government,  $947,000. 

Does  that  mean  that  on  that  date  that  amount  of  money  belonging 
to  the  United  States  was  held  by  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  ? 

Mr.  Gregg.  That  is  correct.  And  the  reason  that  was  held  is  be- 
cause these  investigations  were  still  going  on.  We  did  not  know 
how  long  they  would  continue.  We  did  not  know  whether  we 
would  have  to  go  through  the  courts  eventually,  and  we  were  un- 
willing to  return  the  unused  amount  until  the  contract  was  closed 
up,  because  we  did  not  know  what  expenditures  we  might  have. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Gregg,  these  claims  you  referred  to,  before  the 
Comptroller  General,  that  were  being  carried  on  at  this  time,  had 
no  relation  to  the  Old  Hickory  contract,  did  they? 

Mr.  Gregg.  That  is  correct,  except  as  the  Comptroller  General 
related  them  to  them  in  this  way. 

Mr.  Hiss.  But  they  arose  out  of  the  sale  of  materials  to  the 
United  States  Government? 

Mr.  Gregg.  By  the  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co. 

Mr.  Hiss.  And  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  had  nothing  to  do 
with  those  contracts? 

Mr.  Gregg.  With  those  sales. 

Mr.  Hiss.  With  those  sales? 

Mr.  Gregg.  That  is  correct. 

Mr.  Hiss.  I  call  your  attention  to  page  3,  in  which  you  say : 

Of  the  claims  and  accounts  before  the  Comptroller  General  of  the  United 
States  for  settlement  and  payment,  some  have  been  tentatively  allowed  in 
whole  or  in  part,  but  payment  withheld  on  account  of  the  du  Pout  Co.  being 
surety  for  du  Pont  Engineering  Co. 

In  other  words,  the  Comptroller  General  refused  to  pay  claims 
which  he  admitted  the  Government  owed  you  until 

Mr.  Gregg.  Owed  E.  I. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Owed  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  until  the  Engi- 
neering Co.  had  paid  back  to  the  United  States  the  amount  which 
the  Engineering  Co.  admitted  was  a  balance  due  to  the  United 
States. 

Mr.  Gregg.  Not  admitted  that  it  was  a  balance  due  to  the  United 
States,  but  it  was  the  balance  that  was  still  in  our  hands. 

Mr.  Hiss.  How  much  dispute  was  there  at  that  time  about  that 
amount  ? 


3254  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Gregg.  There  were  various  items  in  dispute  at  that  time. 
Mr.  Hiss.  I  call  your  attention  to  page  5  of  "  Exhibit  No.  1196  ": 

The  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.'s  differences  with  the  War  Department  are 
as  follows : 

The  total  there  shown  is  $361,709.13. 

Mr.  Gregg.  That  is  correct. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Whereas,  on  page  6,  the  total  amount  of  Government 
funds  was  $947,674.  So  that  you  had  a  clear  balance  of  well  over 
$500,000,  even  if  every  point  in  dispute  were  resolved  in  your  favor 
and  you  were  to  retain 

Mr.  Gregg.  But  there  was  no  assurance  that  those  claims  would 
be  resolved  in  our  favor,  and  therefore  the  possibility  that  we 
might  have  to  go  through  court. 

Mr.  Hiss.  But  if  they  were  not  resolved  in  your  favor  you  would 
repay  the  full  $947,000"? 

Mr.  Gregg.  If  they  were  resolved  in  our  favor? 

Mr.  Hiss.  If  they  were  not  resolved  in  your  favor,  you  would 
repay  the  United  States  the  full  $947,000;  is  that  not  correct,  Mr. 
Gregg?  Perhaps  the  third  sentence  of  the  second  paragraph  on 
page  3  will  refresh  your  memory. 

We  are  endeavoring  to  assist  the  legal  department  in  the  preparation  of  a 
brief  or  appeal  to  the  Comptroller  General,  asking  that  the  du  Pont  Co.'s 
accounts  be  paid,  for  the  reason  that  the  United  States  is  protected  in  the 
case  of  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  by  du  Pont  Co.'s  bonds  on  the  advances 
made  to  the  Engineering  Co. 

By  the  "  du  Pont  Co.'s  bonds  "  you  meant  they  had  put  up  collat- 
eral? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Oh,  no,  no.  The  du  Pont  Co.  had  bonded  the  du 
Pont  Engineering  Co.  in  connection  with  the  advances  that  had 
been  made. 

Mr.  Hiss.  You  do  not  mean  bonds  put  up  as  collateral,  you  mean 
obligation  bonds? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Surety  bonds. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Right.  So  that  you  suggested  that  the  United  States 
rely  upon  the  du  Pont  Co.'s  credit  rather  upon  a  set-off  of  amounts 
held  by  the  United  States  which  the  Comptroller  General  admitted 
you  had  a  claim  to,  but  for  the  Engineering  Co.,  is  that  correct? 

Mr.  Gregg.  What  I  meant  by  that  was  that  if  the  Comptroller 
General  went  ahead  and  paid  these  claims  of  E.  I.  du  Pom  de 
Nemours  &  Co.  for  current  sales,  and  even  though  we  still  retained 
this  cash  in  our  hands,  the  Government  was  still  protected. 

Mr.  Hiss.  By  the  credit  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  ? 

Mr.  Gregg.  JBy  the  credit  of  F.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co. 

Mr.  Hiss.  But  you  did  not  wish  to  rely  upon  the  credit  of  the 
Government  at  the  same  time? 

Mr.  Gregg.  It  was  a  question  of  whether  or  not  we  might  not  have 
to  go  through  court  and  incur  a  lot  of  expense  in  going  through  the 
courts. 

Mr.  Hiss.  May  I  call  vour  attention  to  the  last  sentence  on  page 
3  [reading  from  "  Exhibit  No.  1196  "]  : 

So  long  as  the  Comptroller  follows  the  plan  of  holding  up  payment  of  money 
to  the  du  Pont  Co.  it  will  be  a  misfortune  for  the  du  Pont  Co.  to  have  its 
unpaid  accounts  with  the  United  States  exceed  the  amount  of  unspent  United 
States  money  held  by  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.     Should  the  du  Pont  Co.'s  un- 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3255 

paid  accounts  exceed  the  sum  of  money  held  by  the  du  Pont  Engineei'ing  Co.  the 
du  Pont  Co.  might  then  be  forced  to  sue  in  the  Court  of  Claims  for  the  amount 
due  and  the  Government's  reply  would  undoubtedly  throw  the  du  Pont  Engi- 
neering Co.'s  business  into  the  Court  of  Claims  instead  of  into  the  local  Federal 
court,  where  it  would  be  if  the  United  States  eventually  sued  the  du  Pont 
Engineering  Co. 

You  did  not  wish  to  have  the  Court  of  Claims  pass  upon  your 
powder  claims,  that  is,  claims  for  materials  sold  to  the  Government, 
but  if  the  case  were  thrown  into  court,  you  preferred  to  have  it  tried 
in  the  local  Federal  court? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Where  we  Avould  have  a  chance  to  get  before  a  jury. 

]\rr.  Hiss.  That  is  all  I  have. 

The  Chairman.  You  wanted  to  raise  a  question? 

Mr.  Gregg.  How  many  minutes  may  I  have.  Senator? 

The  Chairman.  If  it  is  going  to  be  extended  minutes  at  all,  let  us 
wait  until  Monday  morning, 

Mr.  Gregg.  It  is  not  going  to  be  extended,  just  a  couple  of  points 
I  would  like  to  make  at  this  time. 

I  observe  that  one  exhibit  has  been  put  in  by  Mr.  Storck.  In  the 
investigation  by  a  Congressional  committee  of  Attorne}^  General 
Dougherty,  which  you  will  no  doubt  recall,  Mr.  Storck  and  Mr, 
McLane,  the  United  States  attorney  at  Nashville,  appeared  before 
that  committee  and  made  various  charges  in  connection  with  the 
Old  Hickory  contract.  Mr.  Storck  testified  that  before  that  commit- 
tee at  this  hearing  on  December  5, 1923,  before  this  joint  board  which 
I  mentioned,  and  which  Major  Carnduff  has  referred  to.  Mr.  Storck 
there  testified  that  he  saw  in  my  possession  at  that  hearing  that  day 
his  original  rejoort  to  the  Attorney  General  with  respect  to  the 
charges  at  Old  Hickory. 

I  Avish  to  state  now  that  that  statement  is  untrue.  I  never  saw 
Mr.  Storck's  original  report,  a  copy  of  his  report,  or  an  extract  of 
his  report  to  the  Department  of  Justice,  at  any  time  or  anywhere. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  was  not  referred  to,  Mr.  Gregg,  in  any  of  these 
letters  that  went  in.  There  was  no  charge  made  that  you  had  seen 
Mr.  Storck's  report  in  any  of  these  exhibits, 

M,  Gregg.  No.    I  appreciate  that.    I  just  wanted  to  clear  that  up. 

That  Avas  the  only  thing  that  I  ever  got  fro^m  the  Department  of 
Justice  before  this  hearing  or  after  that  hearing  with  respect  to  Mr. 
Storck,  and  I  did  not  know  that  these  questions  that  Major  Carnduff 
had  submitted  to  me  were  in  any  way  based  on  any  report  that  Mr. 
Storck  or  anybody  else  had  made  to  the  Department  of  Justice 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Gregg,  may  I  ask  one  question  to  clarify  that? 

The  congressional  investigation  to  which  you  referred  was  an 
investigation  on  the  charge  that  the  Government's  case  had  been 
disclosed  to  the  du  Pont  Co.,  was  it  not? 

Mr.  Gregg.  That  is  correct.    And  I  say  that  that  is  untrue. 

As  to  the  settlement  contract  which  we  entered  into  with  the  War 
Department,  dated  October  31,  1925,  eventually,  of  course,  that  went 
to  the  Comptroller  General.  When  it  reached  the  Comptroller  Gen- 
eral, the  Comptroller  General  then  called  upon  me  for  explanation 
of  certain  expenditures  allowed  under  that  report,  and  I  wrote  two 
memorandums  for  him.  One  was  on  the  extra  compensation  for 
meritorious  services  performed  by  certain  employees  in  connection 
with  the  construction  of  the  plants,  which  included  Old  Hickory. 


3256  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Another  memorandum  which  I  prepared  for  the  Comptroller  Gen- 
eral dealt  with  certain  other  items  that  were  in  dispute  before  the 
War  Department. 

After  the  submission  of  those  memorandums  to  the  Comptroller 
General,  the  Comptroller  General  approved  the  settlement  contract 
which  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  had  made  with  the  War 
Department. 

I  also  wish  to  call  attention  at  this  time — I  have  a  number  of 
other  matters,  but  I  will  make  this  brief — that  before  the  settlement 
contract  was  made  with  the  War  Department,  a  letter  was  written  by 
Attorney  General  Sargent  to  the  Secretary  of  War.  I  merely  wish 
to  point  out  at  this  time  one  paragraph.  I  may  desire  to  refer  to  it 
later,  but  at  this  time  one  paragraph  of  that  letter  by  the  Attorney 
General  to  the  Secretary  of  AVar. 

Mr.  Hiss.  That  letter  is  already  in  evidence,  Mr.  Gregg,  as  "  Ex- 
hibit No.  1191."  That  was  a  letter  from  which  I  read  the  last 
paragraph. 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  just  want  to  point  it  out. 

An  extensive  investigation  of  the  charges  of  fraud  or  crime  above  referred 
to— 

And  this  has  to  do  with  the  du  Pont  Engineering  matters — 

An  extensive  investigation  of  the  charges  of  fraud  or  crime  above  referred  to 
has  failed  to  disclose  reasonable  or  probable  grounds  for  believing  that  during 
the  performance  of  the  contracts  in  question  the  du  Pont  Co.  committed  the 
offenses  with  which  it  has  been  charged,  or  any  crimes,  and  in  my  opinion 
there  is  no  warrant  either  for  further  investigation  along  these  lines  or  for 
the  institution  of  p.roceeuings  ;  gainst  the  company  based  upon  charges  of  fiaud 
or  crime. 

Senator  Clakk.  Who  wrote  that,  Mr.  Gregg? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Mr.  Sargent. 

In  this  opinion  of  the  Attorney  General,  he  did  suggest  to  the 
War  Department  that  they  give  further  reconsideration  to  certain 
items  that  were  in  dispute  at  that  time.    Those  I  will  take  up  later. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Carnduff,  do  you  know  what  attorney  succeeded  you 
in  charge  of  the  case? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  A  hearing  was  held  about  the  middle  of  December 
1923,  as  a  result  of  which  it  was  determined  that  the  Department  of 
Justice  should  investigate  this  contract.  A  few  days  thereafter, 
within  a  week  thereafter  I  received  a  letter  from  Attorney  General 
Dougherty  telling  me  that  Mr.  R.  H.  Williams,  of  Chattanooga, 
Tenn.,  had  been  assigned  to  the  Old  Hickory  case,  and  I  was  in- 
structed to  turn  over  all  my  records  and  papers  to  Mr.  Williams. 

In  January  1924  I  turned  over  all  records  of  the  Department  of 
Justice  in  my  possession  to  Attorney  R.  H.  Williams,  of  Chatta- 
nooga, Tenn.,  and  had  nothing  further  to  do  with  the  Old  Hickory 
case.  I  did  not  leave  the  Department  of  Justice.  I  remained  there 
for  another  year.  I  did  not,  however,  see  Mr.  Williams  thereafter 
nor  was  I  consult-ed  by  him. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Mr.  Williams  did  not  ask  your  views  as  to  the  case  or 
as  to  the  procedure  to  be  followed  with  respect  to  the  case.  Major 
Carnduff? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  On  the  contrary,  I  tried  to  see  Mr.  Williams.  I 
had  worked  on  the  case  off  and  on  for  a  year.    I  endeavored  to  get 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3257 

him.  to  consult  me  or  consult  Colonel  Anderson,  who  was  my  chief. 
To  the  best  of  my  knowledge  he  never  saw  or  consulted  either  of  us. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Major  Carndujff,  if  you  had  been  assigned  to  draft  a 
reply  to  the  Secretary  of  War  for  the  Attorney  General's  approval, 
w^ouid  you  have  included  the  paragraph  which  Mr.  Gregg  read  into 
the  record  a  few  minutes  ago? 

Mr.  Carnduff,  Regarding  fraud  and  crime? 

Mr.  Hiss.  Yes. 

Mr.  Carndutf.  At  the  time  I  left  the  case,  I  would.  After  a  year's 
investigation  and  the  reports  of  various  auditors,  detectives,  and 
investigators,  at  the  time  I  was  taken  off  the  case  I  had  no  positive 
evidence  whatsoever  of  any  fraud  or  crime  on  the  part  of  the  du  Pont 
Co.  or  any  of  its  subsidiaries,  and  I  had  nothing  to  lead  me  to  sus- 
pect that  there  was  fraud  or  crime.  What  we  were  desiring  to  do 
was  to  have  an  accounting. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Would  you  have  recommended  a  thorough  audit  or  ac- 
counting at  that  time.  Major  Carnduff? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  certainly  would,  for  the  reason  that  our  auditing 
and  accounting  of  various  reputable  concerns  as  well  as  disreputable 
concerns  had  disclosed  large  sums  of  money  due  the  United  States. 
Up  to  that  time  I  personally  had  collected  back  over  $2,000,000  that 
had  been  wrongfully  paid  by  the  United  States  on  war  contracts. 
In  many  instances,  where  the  evidence  of  this  overpayment  was 
shown  to  the  contractor,  he  freely  and  gladly  paid  the  amount  due 
the  United  States  without  further  trouble.  Before  we  could  set  up 
a  bill  as  to  what  we  thought  was  due,  we  had  to  have  a  thorough 
auditing  and  accounting  and  proof  of  the  amount  due.  We  did  not 
have  that  with  reference  to  the  du  Pont  Co.  in  December  1923. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Did  you  ever  satisfy  yourself  that  there  had  been  any 
thorough  auditing  of  the  du  Pont  contract  for  the  construction  and 
operation  of  Old  Hickory  by  the  War  Department  or  by  any  other 
agency  of  the  Government? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  There  had  been  within  the  knowledge  of  anyone 
in  the  Department  of  Justice  no  thorough  audit  of  the  Old  Hickory 
contract  by  the  Government.  We  understood  that  there  was  a  com- 
plete audit  of  the  Old  Hickory  contract  made  by  the  du  Pont  Co., 
and  that  the  supporting  papers  and  vouchers  and  the  audit  were  in 
Wilmington,  Del.  Mr.  Cameron  and  myself  went  to  Wilmington, 
Del.,  and  were  shown  those  supporting  papers,  which  filled  a  room 
larger  than  this  room  on  the  top  floor  of  the  du  Pont  Building.  And 
the  du  Pont  officials  told  us  we  were  free  to  look  at  any  and  all  of 
them  we  desired. 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  wish  to  say  at  that  point  that  starting  in  1919  and 
leading  up  to  1921  the  War  Department  had  a  force  of  auditors  in 
Wilmington,  as  I  say,  running  at  one  time  up  to  approximately  103, 
going  over  these  contracts.  So  far  as  I  know,  they  audited  every 
voucher.  Just  as  an  illustration,  they  got  down  to  one  point  where 
they  disallowed  a  fountain  pen  costing  $2.75  because  we  could  not 
locate  the  fountain  pen. 

Senator  Pope.  What  is  the  date  of  that  letter,  that  opinion  of  the 
Attorney  General? 

Mr.  Hiss.  August  5,  1925. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Mr.  Hiss,  I  would  like  to  add  to  my  answer. 

At  the  time  I  left  the  case,  I  was  fully  convinced  that  the  du 
Pont  Engineering  Co.  owed  the  United  States  a  balance  of  at  least 


'3258  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

$900,000,  and  possibly  a  great  deal  more.  This  balance  was  ad- 
mitted as  due,  and  I  made  demand  upon  the  du  Pont  officials  for 
this  balance.  There  was  some  question  as  to  how  it  would  be  paid 
and  what  kind  of  a  receipt  would  be  given  if  it  were  paid.  I  never 
got  a  chance  to  collect  it  because  I  was  taken  off  the  case.  But 
I  am  confident  that  I  could  have  collected  the  greater  part  of  that 
$900,000  at  that  time.  Mr.  Gregg  indicated  that  he  was  ready  to 
pay  it,  or  some  of  it. 

Mr.  Gregg.  No.  I  said  at  that  time.  Major — I  beg  your  pardon — 
that  we  did  not  want  to  return  that  sum  of  money  until  we  knew 
that  there  was  going  to  be  a  settlement  or  there  was  some  wind-up 
■of  the  case,  either  through  the  courts  or  otherwise. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  believe  it  was  agreed  that  the  money  would  be 
])aid  if  a  receipt  in  full  would  be  given.  I  refused  to  give  a  receipt 
in  full  for  the  reason  that  an  audit  might  develop  more  money  due. 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  do  not  recall  your  mentioning  a  receipt  in  full  at 
the  present  time. 

I  would  like  to  state  this  at  this  time:  These  matters  had  been 
in  the  Department  of  Justice  for  over  a  year,  and  we  were  not 
making  verv  much  progress  toward  settlement.  We  did  want  to 
get  through  with  this  thing  some  day.  I  saw  Attorney  General 
Sargent  shortly  after  he  came  into  office.  I  had  never  met  'him 
before.  I  spoke  to  him  about  these  matters  in  the  War  Fraud 
Section.      He  said,  "  I  do  not  know  anything  about  the  details." 

I  said,  "  Mr.  Attorney  General,  I  am  not  asking  you  to  go  into 
the  details.  I  am  not  asking  you  to  dismiss  these  charges.  I  do  not 
want  them  dismissed.  I  want  them  fully  investigated.  If  we  are 
guilty  of  fraud,  we  should  suffer  the  consequences.  The  only  thing 
1  am'  asking  you  to  do :  Will  you  not  be  good  enough  to  try  to  move 
the  investigation  along  so  that  if  we  have  to  go  into  court,  the 
sooner  we  get  into  court  the  sooner  we  will  get  out  of  court?" 

Senator  Clark.  Mr.  Gregg,  did  not  the  district  attorney  for  the 
district  of  middle  Tennessee,  to  whom  you  refer,  testify  in  that 
Dougherty  investigation  that  the  grand  jury  down  there  had  either 
returned  indictments  or  was  about  to  return  indictments,  and  that 
he  was  ordered  by  the  Attorney  General  to  send  those  papers  to 
Washington,  and  that  they  fell  into  the  possession  of  Assistant 
Attorney  General  Goff,  and  that  he  was  never  able  to  get  them 
back? 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  do  not  recall  that.  Senator.  I  thought  I  had  gone 
through  that  testimony  quite  thoroughly. 

Senator  Clark.  I  have  not  been  through  it.  That  is  my  informa- 
tion, but  I  do  not  vouch  for  it.  I  was  just  asking  if  that  was  not  the 
testimony,  to  that  effect. 

Mr.  Gregg.  But  I  do  recall  at  this  hearing  that  we  had  on  Decem- 
ber 5, 1923,  near  the  close  of  the  hearing,  that  Mr.  McLane  made  vari- 
ous charges  about  overpayment  of  freight  rates,  and  so  on  and  so 
forth,  and  Colonel  Anderson  asked  him  to  produce  any  evidence  that 
he  had  to  him  the  next  morning  at  9  o'clock.  Colonel  Anderson  said 
to  me,  "You  come  in  at  11  o'clock,  and  if  I  feel  that  there  should 
be  further  expUiuation  of  this,  or  if  it  requires  further  explanation, 
you  will  have  to  do  it." 

I  went  to  Colonel  Anderson's  office  at  11  o'clock  and,  when  I  went 
in,  he  said,  "  Have  you  seen  McLane  this  morning?  " 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3259 

I  said,  "  No,  I  have  not  seen  an^'thing  of  him." 

He  said,  "  Well,  he  never  showed  up  here,  and  I  have  not  been  able 
to  find  him."  He  told  me  later  on  that  the  evening  of  the  hearing 
McLane  had  gone  back  to  Xashville  and  never  did  submit  the  mem- 
orandum to  him. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Major  Carnduft',  may  I  ask  you  one  further  question: 
At  the  time  that  you  left  this  case,  were  you  of  the  opinion  that, 
wholly  apart  from  fraud  and  crime,  solely  in  the  realm  of  proper 
accounting  to  the  United  States  for  funds  advanced,  there  w^as  need 
of  further  investigation? 

Mr.  Carxdiff.  I  was;  and  I  think  this  hearing  of  December 
brought  out — you  have  the  testimon}- — that  the  responsible  du  Pont 
officials  admitted  there  was  some  balance  due  the  United  States,  the 
return  of  this  monej^  advanced  it.  We  wanted  to  ascertain  what  the 
correct  balance  was  and  collect  it.  That  had  nothing  to  do  with 
fraud  or  crime ;  an  accounting  proposition, 

Mr.  Gregg.  That  amount  of  $900,000  due  at  that  time  was  reduced 
by  various  expenditures  wdiich  were  approved  by  the  Government. 
Wliat  was  left — between  three  and  four  hundred  thousand  dollars — 
we  did  return  to  the  Government  at  the  time  of  the  settlement  con- 
tract. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Major  Carnduff,  over  and  above  the  $900,000  wdiich  was 
admittedly  held  on  deposit,  whether  subject  to  claims  or  not  is  im- 
material, were  you  of  the  opinion  that  it  was  proper  to  carry  on  a 
further  investigation  to  determine  w^hether  or  not  the  du  Pont  Co. 
owe<i  the  United  States  more  than  that  $900,000? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Certainly.  I  wanted  especially  to  investigate  the 
matter  of  the  Mason  &  Hangar  fee,  and  a  matter  of  bonuses  paid  to 
employees,  to  find  out  if  they  were  proper  or  not.  We  had  not  made 
any  decision  as  to  whether  they  were  right  or  wrong,  but  we  felt 
these  large  sums  should  be  investigated  and  examinee!  from  a  legal 
standpoint.  We  needed  evidence  to  do  that,  and  we  did  not  have  the 
evidence  at  that  time. 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  might  say  that  as  to  the  Mason  &  Hangar  fee  we  did 
go  to  the  Attorney  General  and  the  Attorney  General  rendered  an 
opinion  to  the  Secretary  of  War  that  the  fee  of  5  percent  should  be 
allowed. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Colonel  Harris,  Mr.  Gregg  has  referred  to  a  number  of 
Government  auditors  from  time  to  time  investigating.  Were  they 
War  Department  auditors,  Mr.  Gregg? 

Mr.  Gregg.  They  Avere  War  Department  auditors. 

Mr.  Hiss.  Colonel  Harris,  would  you  please  bring  on  Monday 
whatever  there  is  in  the  nature  of  an  audit  in  the  War  Department 
that  those  103  auditors  prepared  ? 

The  Chairman.  The  committee  will  be  in  recess  until  10  o'clock 
Monday  morning. 

(Thereupon,  at  5  p.  m..  a  recess  was  taken  until  Monday,  Dec.  17, 
1934,  at  10  a.  m.) 

This  concludes  that  part  of  the  testimony  known  as  "  Part  XIV, 
Old  Hickory  Contract."  At  this  point  the  committee  continued  with 
the  story  of  Old  Hickory  and  entered  into  the  question  of  industrial 
organization  in  war.     (See  Part  XV.) 

83876 — 35— PT  14 7 


APPENDIX 


Exhibit  No.  1138 
[File:    Publicity   Bureau.      Moses,    Senator,   replies   to   Dyes] 

*  August  16-22. 

Memorandum  of  reply  to  statement  of  Senator  Moses  in  United  States  Senate 
on  July  14th,  1922.^ 

During  the  discussion  of  the  tariff  bill  in  the  United  States  Senate  on  Fri- 
day, July  14,  Senator  Moses,  of  New  Hampshire,  made  statements  concerning 
the  dealings  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company,  and  is  subsidiaries, 
with  the  United  States  Government  in  the  late  World  War  which  should  not 
be  allowed  to  stand  uncorrected.  He  said : 

"  I  have  here  a  tabulation  drawn  from  oflScial  sources  showing  that,  begin- 
ning with  January  10,  1918,  and  running  through  to  a  latest  date  of  Febru- 
ary 11.  1919,  the  du  Pont  Co.  and  two  of  its  subsidiaries  secured  advances 
from  the  Federal  Treasury  in  the  gross  sum  of  $99,250,552.80.  his  money, 
Mr.  President,  was  paid  for  the  purpose  of  creating  huge  establishments  which 
bear  the  du  Pont  name  and  which  were  devoted  to  furnishing  supplies  to  the 
Government  during  the  war.  Thus  the  people  of  the  United  States  not  only 
financ3d  the  du  Ponts  in  the  tremendous  extension  of  their  business  but  were 
also  mulcted  by  the  du  Ponts  to  an  extent  which  enabled  the  company  to 
increase  its  plant  value  to  an  admitted  $220,000,000  wliile  at  the  same  time 
taking  out  net  profits  which  in  one  year  amounted  to  $129,000,000. 

"The  du  Ponts  still  hold,  as  of  July  1,  1922,  $35,131,066.02  of  Government 
funds  unaccountetl  for,  although  the  war  ended  almost  four  years  ago.  On 
practically  none  of  this  $100,000,000  of  public  money  advanced  to  them  did  the 
du  Ponts  pay  interest ;  and  the  only  security  they  ever  gave  for  any  portion  of 
this  huge  sum  of  the  public's  funds  was  their  own  notes  or  bonds." 

The  money  advanced  by  the  United  States  Government  to  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 
Nemours  &  Company  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  du  Pont  Company)  was  used 
for  the  purchase  of  raw  materials  for  the  fulfillment  of  contracts  to  supply 
the  Government  with  explosives,  with  the  exception  of  $3,870,000  advanced  by 
the  Navy  under  contract  35819  for  the  construction  of  a  plant  for  the  produc- 
tion of  T.  N.  T.  for  the  Navy. 

The  du  Pont  Company's  war  construction  work,  to  meet  the  demands  of 
foreign  governments  for  explosives,  was  virtually  completed  before  the  United 
States  went  into  the  war,  and  none  of  the  funds  advanced  by  our  Govern- 
ment in  1918  could  have  been  used  "  to  increase  its  plant  value  to  an  admitted 
$220,000,000."  lie  same  statement  applies  to  the  profits  which  were  mentioned 
in  th?  Senator's  speechT. 

he  records  show  that  the  $54,807,380.83  advanced  to  the  du  Pont  Company 
has  been  completely  liquidated  and  accounted  for  by  the  completion  of  con- 
tr.'TCts,  the  delivery  of  material,  the  settlement  of  claims,  or  the  return  of 
cash  to  the  United  States  Treasury. 

To  a  subsidiary  of  the  du  Pont  Company,  viz,  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Com- 
pany, the  Government  advanced  money  to  be  used  and  which  was  used  only 
in  connection  with  the  construction  and  operation  of  Government-owned  plants. 

For  the  construction  of  Government-owned  plants  the  du  Pont  Engineering 
Company  received  direct  advances  from  the  War  Department  totaling  $24,506,- 
250.00.  and  in  addition  thereto,  the  sum  of  $160,579.87,  making  a  total  of 
$24,666,829.87.     The  sum  of  $160,579.87  represented  profit  which  had  accrued 


*  Pen  and  pencil  markings. 

3261 


3262  MUNiTioisrs  industry 

to  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  under  the  first  contracts  for  the  construc- 
tion of  these  Government-owned  plants,  whicli  jirofit  was  waived  in  favor  of  the 
United  States  under  the  later  contracts.  The  cost  of  construction  of  the 
Oovernnient-owned  plants,  the  greatest  of  which  was  the  Uld  Hickory  Smoke- 
less Powder  Plant  near  Nashville,  Tennessee,  total  $9&,923,U08'.23,  and  (*  These 
plants)  were  built  by  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  at  a  prcjfit  ttj  it  of 
$1.00  per  plant,  but  as  the  third  plant  was  not  completed,  due  to  the  armistice, 
the  total  protit  paid  to  the  du  I'ont  Engineering  Company  on  construction  work 
totaling  $99,923,608.23  was  $2.00. 

The  remainder  of  the  funds  advanced  by  the  Government  to  the  du  Pont 
Engineering  Company,  viz,  $20,667,800.00,  was  advanced  for  use  in  the  procure- 
ment of  raw  materials,  payment  of  labor,  etc.,  in  coimection  with  the  opera- 
tion of  Government-owned  plants. 

As  of  June  30,  1922,  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  had  on  hand  $940,- 
D60.60.  This  sum  of  $940.960.6(t  remained  because  some  accounts  were  still  in 
.process  of  adjustment  with  the  War  Department.  A  total  of  $45,334,629.87 
was  advanced  to  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  in  connection  with  the  con- 
struction and  (iperation  of  Government-owned  plants.  There  was  I'eturned  to 
the  United  States  by  four  checks,  dated  June  30,  1920,  of  Du  Pont  Engineering 
^'onipanv,  a  total  of  $3,174,000.00;  by  check  dated  January  19,  1921,  the  sum  of 
$133,981.57;  and  by  check  dated  March  23,  1921,  the  sum  of  $16,516.20,  or  a 
total  of  $3,324,497.77  returned  in  cash  to  the  United  States.  The  l)alance  of 
the  funds  advanced  to  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  were  expended  in  con- 
uection  with  the  constructi(in  and  operation  of  the  Government-owned  plants, 
nil  of  which  expenditures  have  been  approved  by  the  War  Department  with 
tlie  exception  of  certain  items  in  dispute  involving  approximately  $361,709.00. 

All  moneys  advanced  by  the  Government  to  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Com- 
pany were  kept  in  separate  bank  accounts  and  were  drawn  on  only  for  use  in 
connection  with  the  contracts  for  the  Government-owned  plants,  and  all  in- 
terest on  unexpended  funds  advanced  accrued  to  the  benefit  of  the  United 
States. 

To  another  subsidiary  of  the  Du  Pont  Company,  viz,  the  Du  Pont  American 
Industries,  Inc.,  the  Government  advanced  $5,40O,001>.0O,  to  be  used  by  the  Du 
Pont  American  Industries,  Inc.,  as  agent  for  the  United  States,  in  the  purcliase 
of  cotton  linters  for  tlie  United  States  and  its  Allies.  These  funds  were  kept 
in  separate  liank  accounts  and  interest  to  the  amount  of  $147,965.28  accrued  to 
the  benefit  of  the  United  States. 

Du  Pont  American  Industries,  Inc.,  was  accountable  for  the  total  sum  of 
^5,547.965.28.  and  by  five  checks,  dated  July  19,  1920,  it  returned  to  the  United 
States  in  cash  the  total  sum  of  $5,410,105.62,  and  has  been  credited  with  the 
return  of  an  additional  .'^um  of  $77,849.98  through  the  approval  by  the  United 
States  of  certain  accounts.  Pending  final  settlement  of  one  or  two  accounts. 
the  Du  Pont  American  Industries,  Inc.,  has  in  hand  only  $62,175.62,  which 
includes   accrued   interest. 

The  attached  statement  gives  a  detail  of  the  advances  made  by  the  United 
States  on  and  after  January  10,  1918,  to  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company, 
and  its  subsidiaries,  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  and  the  Du  Pont 
American  Industi'ies,  Inc. 

Approved : 

H.  Fletcher  Brdwn. 
*Aug.  16-22. 


*  Pen   and   pencil   markinss. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3263 


ADVANCES  MADE  BY  THE  UNITED  STATES  TO  E.  I.  DU  PONT  DE  NEMOURS  &  COM- 
PANY ON  AND  AFTER  JANUARY  10,  1918.  FOR  USE  IN  THE  PROCUREMENT  OF  SUP- 
PLIES AND  MATERIALS  AND  THE  CONSTRUCTION  OF  A  PLANT  FOR  THE  NAVY  ' 


Govt,  contract  number 

Amount  of 
advance 

Date  advances 
were  received 

Security 

Navv,  20070 

.$426,  593.  13 
70,  000. 00 

100,  000. 00 

200, 000.  00 

900, 000.  00 

3,  500, 000.  00 

414.  264.  29 

800, 000. 00 

750,  000. 00 

3, 000, 000. 00 

5,  750,  000.  00 

12,000,000.00 

1,114,285.00 

1,290,000.00 

1,290,000.00 

1,290,000.00 

1,  237, 500.  00 

8,  413,  600.  00 

5,  849,  055.  74 
1,  652,  777.  51 
1,150,944.26 
2.888,361.00 
720, 000.  00 

Jan.    10, 1918 
Jan.    30,1918 

do -. 

do 

do 

do 

do- - 

do 

do 

do 

do 

do 

Mar.    8,1918 
Apr.     8, 1918 
June    8, 1918 
Aus.  10,1918 
Au.c.  24,1918 
Sept.  28, 1918 

Feb.   12,1919 
Oct.    29,  1918 
Feb.    12,1919 
Oct.    29,1918 
Nov.  18, 1918 

Del.  Surety  Co. 

Army,  GE-140 

Demand  note  of  contractor  for  $27,- 

Armv,  GE-142                           .     .. 

484,264.29.    Secured  by  indorse- 
ment of  P.  S.  du  Pont  and  J.  J. 
Raskob. 
Do. 

Army,  GE-150 

Do. 

Army,  OE-152 

Do. 

Army,  GE-154  .      .             .      . 

Do. 

Armv,  GE-167 

Do. 

Army,  G610-3UE- 

Army,  15467.- 

Do. 
Do. 

Army,  GE-151-._ 

Armv,  G628-312E.. 

Do. 
Do. 

Army,  G674-314E 

Do. 

Navv,  32833 

Del.  Surety  Co. 

Navv,  35819 

Do. 

Navy,  35819 

Navv,  35819--.     

Do. 
Do. 

Armv,  P-13360-1289E 

Do. 

Army,  P-15386-1446E  .. 

Bond  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours 

Armv,  P-15386-1446E  . 

&  Co. 
Do. 

Army,  P-16920-1560E 

Armv.  P-16920-1560E 

Do. 
Do. 

Armv,  P-15092-1423E.  . 

Do. 

Navy,  39669 

Del.  Surety  Co. 

Total-  

54,  807,  380. 93 

ADVANCES  M-\DE  BY  THE  UNITED  STATES  TO  THE  DU  PONT  ENGINEERING  COM- 
PANY DURING  THE  WORLD  WAR  FOR  USE  ONLY  IN  CONNECTION  WITH  GOVERN- 
MENT-OWNED PLANTS 


P-475.5-7I1E   

$18,  750, 000.  00 

Apr.     1, 1918 

Bond  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours 

&  Co. 

125, 000. 00 

May  27, 1918 

Do. 

6, 318,  000.  00 

May  24, 1918 

Do. 

6, 318, 000.  00 

Sept.  17, 1918 

Do. 

2,000,000.00 

Dec.  23,1918 

Do. 

4,318,000.00 

Dec.  26,1918 

Do. 

P-2337-1228A 

1,556,250.00 
35,  579.  87 

Apr.  26,1918 
May  17,1918 

Do. 

Do. 

713,  800.  00 

May  29,1918 

Do. 

P-3509-643-E 

500, 000.  00 

Aue.  21,1918 

Do. 

P-905O-960-E 

500,  000.  00 

Aug.  31, 1918 

Do. 

P-15271-1433E 

4, 200, 000. 00 

Oct.    10,1918 

Do. 

Total 

45, 334, 629.  87 

ADVANCES  MADE  BY  THE  UNITED  STATES  TO  THE  DU  PONT  AMERICAN  INDUS- 
TRIES FOR  USE  ONLY  IN  CONNECTION  WITH  THE  PROCUREMENT  OF  COTTON 
LINTERS  AS  AGENT  FOR  THE  UNITED  STATES 


P-15261-1432E- 


Total. 


$3,  825, 000. 00 
1,575,000.00 


5, 400, 000.  00 


Jan.    20, 1919 
June  16,1919 


Bond  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours 
&Co. 
Do. 


^  Under  date  of  May  7,  1935,  the  du  Pont  Co.  informed  the  committee  in  response  to 
a  query  that  the  item  of  $3,870,000,  representing  advances  made  by  the  United  States 
Government  under  Navy  contract  no.  35819,  was  for  the  construction  of  a  plant  for 
production  of  T.  N.  X.  for  the  Navy.  The  remaining  amount  advanced  by  the  Government 
was  on  account  of  purchases  of  guncotton  and  rifle  powder,  ammonium  picrate,  boxes, 
and  T.  N.  T.      (See  appendix.  Part  XIII,  p.  3263,  footnote  S  for  additional  data.) 


3264  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Exhibit  No.  1139 

[Copies  from  file  no.  G-728-323-E] 

War   Industries    Board,    Council   of   National   Defense 

robert  8.  brookings,  commissioner  finished  products 

Washington,  D.  C,  November  1,  1917. 
Hon.  Newton  D.   Baker, 

War  Department, 

My  Dear  Mr.  Secretary  :  Wishing  to  get  to  the  bottom  of  the  proposed  con- 
tract with  the  Du  Pont  Company,  I  motored  with  Admiral  Earl  to  Indian  Head 
yesterday  afternoon,  and  made  a  rather  hurried  but  complete  inspection  of  the 
naval  powder  plant  which  is  located  there.  While  the  plant  is  small,  producing 
only  25,000  lbs.  per  day,  they  have  an  appropriation  for  doubling  this  capacity 
at  an  expenditure  of  something  like  $2,000,000.  I  am  convinced,  from  state- 
ments made  me  by  the  superintendent,  Mr.  Patterson,  and  the  officers  in  charge 
that  the  plant  is  producing  as  good  powder  as  is  produced  by  any  plant  in  the 
world,  and  I  herewith  enclose  copy  of  report  made  by  them  October  21st  of 
this  year  showing  the  cost  during  the  fiscal  year  1917  to  be  about  31^  for 
what  is  known  as  "  direct  shop  cost ",  with  an  overhead  including  boxing, 
interest,  outbound  freight,  depreciation,  etc.  of  about  9<^,  or  a  total  of  40^  per 
lb.  Of  this  cost,  the  contract  with  the  Du  Ponts  would  entirely  eliminate  the 
item  of  boxes,  depreciation,  outbound  freight  and  barge  expense,  and  interest, 
which,  you  will  notice,  aggregates  about  l^  per  lb.,  reducing  the  cost  to  330. 
This  is  a  small  scattered  plant  of  only  l/40th  of  the  capacity  of  the  proposed 
new  plant.  With  the  purchasing  power  of  the  Government  and  the  magnitude 
of  the  proposed  plant,  it  is  quite  probable  that  the  cost  as  outlined  by  the 
Du  Pont  agreement  will  not  exceed  35«?  per  lb.,  so  that  under  the  Du  Pont  con- 
tract, they  would  make  during  the  first  year  of  operation  a  profit  of  about  10^ 
per  lb.,  or  approximately  $30,000,000  in  addition  to  the  $13,500,000  construction 
commission  provided  for.  From  statements  made  me  by  Mr.  Patterson,  super- 
intendent at  Indian  Head,  I  would  place  very  little  value  upon  the  super-expert 
knowledge  of  the  Du  Ponts,  or  patents  or  other  privileges  attached  to  their 
service.  They  probably  produce  at  Indian  Head  everything  provided  for  at  the 
propo.sed  new  plant  except  possibly  a  small  amount  of  diphenylamine. 

I  herewith  hand  you  enclosures  just  received  from  Col.  Pierce,  which  indi- 
cate the  cost  to  the  British  Government  for  contractor's  services  on  a  plant 
probably  similar  to  this  would  average  about  2%.  This  does  not  seem,  however, 
to  cover  the  plans  and  specifications. 

I  send  this  by  bearer,  hoping  it  may  reach  you  before  your  interview  with 
Mr.  du  Pont. 

That  the  price  demanded  by  the  Du  Ponts  for  construction,  service,  and  op- 
eration is  utterly  out  of  scale  with  any  possible  service  they  can  render  would 
seem  obvious. 

If  there  is  any  further  assistance  which  I  can  render  you  or  the  Department 
in  solving  this  problem,  I  am,  of  course,  at  your  command. 
Yours  truly, 

Robert  S.  Brookings. 
RSB-BMP 


Exhibit  No.  1140 

[Copied  from  file  no.  G-728-323-E.     Refer  to  no.  2908-22.     HDBl 

Naval  Proving  Ground, 
Indiaiihead,  Maryland,  October  22nd,  1917. 
To :  Bureau  of  Ordnance. 
Subject:  Cost  of  smokeless  powder  manufactured  at  Indianbead  during  fiscal 

year  1917. 
References:    (a)   Bu.  Ord.  letter  33446  of  October  8,  1917. 
(b)    Bu.  Ord.  letter  32239  of  June  9,  1917. 
1.  In  compliance  with  references    (a)    and    (b)    above,  the  following  report 
is  submittetl : 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3265 

DEn"AILED   COST  OF   MANUFACTUEB  OF    SMOKEXESS   POWDER   DURING  THE   FISCAL   YEAK 

1917 

The  cost  of  a  pound  of  new  powder  is  calculated  for  the  year  as  follows : 

Per  lb.  of  powder 

0.645913  lbs.  of  cotton,  at  .108618 $0.  070159 

0.803035  lbs.  of  alcohol,  at  .0645S2 .  051942 

2.2743  lbs.  of  sodium  nitrate,  at  .021027 .  047824 

1.485  lbs.  of  sulphur,  at  .011557 .  0171G2 

Production  labor .  036737 

Handling  materials,  labor .  004183 

Leave  and  holiday .  009;)07 

Superintendence  and  clerical .  007024 

Repairs,  labor,  and  material .  032885 

Powder  expense .  025465 

Other  material .  008191 

Total 0.310879 

(The  above  are  all  the  items  of  cost  which  can  be  considered 
direct   shop   cost.) 
Overhead  cost:  Per  lb.  of  powder 

(1)  Powder  boxes $0.014308 

(2)  Administration  (officers'  pay  and  allowances) .002743 

(3)  Pensions   (disability  pay) .000505 

(4)  Expense  charged  to  other  appropriations .014340 

(5)  Depreciation .  022766 

(6)  Insurance .  000440 

(7)  Rejected  powder .000000 

(8)  Experiments .  000000 

(9)  Purchasing    expense .001475 

(10)  Tug  and  barge  service .004533 

(11)  Freight .  009207 

Total .  070317 

Interest .018495 

Interest  is  calculated  at  3  percent  on  a  plant  value  of  $2,001,635.00  and  a 
value  of  stock  in  suspension  of  $1,993,800.00.  Both  the  interest  and  all  items 
of  overhead  expense  are  averaged  to  the  total  output  of  new  and  reworked 
powder,  a  total  of  6,480,809  pounds,  at  $0.018495,  $119,863.05. 

Total  cost  to  Government  for  the  manufacture  of  one  pound  of  powder  dur- 
ing the  fiscal  year  1917,  at  the  naval  proving  ground : 

Shop    cost $0.  310879 

Overhead  cost .  070317 

Overhead  cost .  070317 

Total .399691 

Shop  cost  includes  all  material  entering  into  the  composition  of  the  powder, 
all  labor  expended  directly  in  connection  with  the  manufacture,  labor,  and 
material  used  in  repair  of  plant,  cost  of  power  for  operating  and  all  incidental 
material  expended  in  connection  with  manufacture,  whether  entering  into  com- 
position or  not. 

Overhead  charges  include  all  matters  of  actual  cost  to  the  Government  ex- 
clusive of  shop  cost.  Some  of  these  expenditures  are  from  ordnance  appro- 
priations and  some  are  from  other  appropriations. 

Interest  is  charged  at  3  percent  on  the  assumption  that  the  Government 
can  and  does  borrow  money  at  that  rate.  All  figures  are  reduced  to  a  per 
pound  basis  on  the  total  output  of  the  factory. 

Analysis  of  items  included  in  overhead  charges : 

(1)  Powder  boxes. — A  box  contained  an  average  weight  of  109.5  pounds  of 
powder,  and  is  assumed  to  be  good  for  three  shipments,  109.5-328.5  pounds  at 
$4.70  per  box,  equals  $0.014308  per  pound. 


3266 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


(2)  Administration  {offioers'  pay  d  allowances) . — 

One-hnlf    (inspector,  paymaster,   surgeon) $6,364.12 

Three-fourths    (assistant  inspector) 3,649.80 

One-fourth    (powder  gunner) . 659.74 

One-half  (warrant  machinist  and  pay  clerks) 4,672.92 

All   (marine  officer) 2,428.96 

Total  administration  ($0.002743  per  pound) 17,775.54 

(3)  Pensions  {disaMUty  pay),  $3,275.08  per  pound,  $0.000505. 

(4)  Expense  charged  to  other  appropriations,  or  johs  not  already  included. — 

Watchmen  (one-half  regular,  all  of  special  force) $12,037.67 

Handling   refuse,   one-half 497.  57 

Care  of  motor  trucks,  carts,  and  wagons,  one-half 420.  93 

Care  of  livestock,  one-half 817.  33 

Care  of  grounds,  one-half 7,615.60 

Care  of  cottages,  one-half 8,473.05 

Care  of  launches,    one-half 3,973.96 

85  marines,  at  $433.16  per  man 36,  816.  60 

Heating  and  light  offices  and  handling  coal,  one-eighth 502.  58 

Care  of  Washington  telephone  line,  one-half 811.67 

Care  of  offices  and  detachetl  buildings,  one-half 1,  825.  58 

Care  of  laboratories 5,  430. 12 

Care  of  creek  water  front  and  coal  store 4,  888.  81 

Tool  room  charges 1,  056.  47 

Maintenance,    garage 169.  64 

Mixing  house  repairs 253.85 

Sulphuric  house  repairs 3,  090.  89 

Dry  house  changes 4,199.25 

Total  ($0.014340  per  pound  of  powder) 92,936.90 

(5)  Value  of  investment. — 

Land $10,  40O.  00 

Improvements,  including  railroad  lines,  pipe  lines,  grading,  sew- 
ers, electric  lines,  etc 315,  745.  00 

Buildings 815,  940.  00 

Machinery,  tools,   furniture,   and   equipment 859,  550.  00 

Total 2,  001,  635.  00 


Appreciation 

Depreciation 

Amount 

Percent 

Amount 

Percent 

Land -.      . 

0 
0 
0 
0 

0 
0 
0 
0 

0 

$12,  629. 80 

48, 956.  40 

85, 955. 00 

0 

Improvements -..  .  

4 

Buildings 

6 

Machinery,  tools,  etc.-  --.  ...  ._-      -         _      -      ._ 

10 

Total ..           

147,  541. 20 

Depreciation  per  pound $0.022766 

(6)  Insurance. — 

Fire  loss,  at  $0.00044  per  pound $2,852.55 

(7)  No  lots  of  powder  wei-e  re.iected. 

(8)  Experiments. — All   experimental    work    is    already    charged    directly    to 
manufacture  and  appears  in  shop  cost. 

(9)  Purchasing  expense. — 377  requisitions  were  made  during  the  year  on  ac- 
count of  the  powder  factory. 

Estimated  printing  and  advertising $3,  000.  00 

Estimated    clerical    work 3,380.00 

Estimated  officers'  work 3,280.00 


Total   (per  pound,  $0.001475) 9,560.00 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3267 


(10)  Tug  and  harge  seruice. — Reconls  show  during  the  fiscal  year: 

Tons 

Tonnage  for  powder  factory 77,  563 

Tonnage  for  proving  ground 29,740 

Tonnage  is  for  one  way,  not  round  trip.  On  account  of  the  greater  numlier 
of  barges  and  trips  required  for  bulky  material  delivered  to  powder  factory, 
and  the  greater  passenger  list,  %   of  total  cost  of  service  is  a  fair  estimate. 

Total  cost  of  tug  service  from  supplies  and  accounts : 

Maintenance $28,  504.  03 

Pay  and  provisions 10,  610. 16 

Total 39, 174. 19 

Cost  per  pound  for  %  tug  survice 0.004533. 

(11)  Freight. — The  cost  of  making  actual  consecutive  shipments  of  powder 
durina-  the  year  ending  June  30,  1917,  from  Indianhead  to  various  magazines 
by  rail,  was: 

Freight 

Powder    (net),  5,402,935  pounds $46,  227.09 

During  the  same  period  of  time  additional  shipments  by  Government  con- 
veyance were  made : 

Cost  of 
shipmen 

Powder    (net),  366,037  lbs $1,924.24 

Summary  of  freight  charges 


Shipped  by  rail 

Shipped  by  boat 

For  proving-ground  use. 
Awaiting  shipment 


Total 

Demurrage  charges  at  Indianhead  and  Washington  Navy  Yard- 
Total  freight 

Per  pound,  $0.009207. 


Pounds 


1, 857, 907 
366, 037 
158, 532 

4, 098, 333 


6, 480, 809 


Cost  of 
shipment 


$15,717.89 
1,924.24 
0. 000. 00 

1  34,  426.  00 


52, 068. 13 
7,  598. 00 


59, 666. 13 


'  Estimated. 


Exhibit  No.  1141 
A2-14(5) (330921-2) 

Dbs'artment  of  the  Navy, 

Office  of  the  Secretary, 
Washington,  Oct.  27,  J934. 
Hon.  Geraxd  P.  Nye, 

Chaii-rtian  Special  Committee  Investigating  the  Munition,^  Industry, 

United  States  Senate,  Washington,  B.C. 
My  De:ar  Senator  Nye:  In  reply  to  your  letter  of  17  October  1934   (request 
no.  20),  the  information  which  you  requested  is  contained  in  Indianhead  letter 
of  22  October  1934,  which  is  enclosed. 
Sincerely  yours, 

CtAUDB  A.   Swanson. 


3268  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

[Copy] 

LL/A9^1(9-1) 

Naval  Powde:e  Factory, 
Indianhead,  Md.,  October  22,  IBSI/. 
From :  Inspector  of  Ordnance  in  charge. 
To :  Bureau  of  Ordnance. 
Subject :  Data  on  cost  of  raw  materials  and  manufacture  of  smokeless  powder 

at    the    Naval    Powder    Factory    during    the    fiscal    years    1915-16,    1916-17, 

1917-18,  and  1918-19. 
Reference:    Telephone   message   from   Bureau    of   Ordnance   17    October   1934 

(received  19  October). 
Enclosure  (herewith)  :  (A)  Tabulated  cost  report  of  manufacture  of  new  and 

reworked  powder. 

1.  Complying  with  Bureau's  telephone  message  received  at  Naval  Powder 
Factory  19  October  1934,  relative  to  request  no.  20 — memorandum  to  Secretary 
of  the  Navy ;  the  following  is  the  information  desired  given  in  the  order  listed 
in  memorandum : 

(1)    PRICE  PAID  FOR  RAW   MA'rERIALS 

Sulphur-:  Per  ton 

1916    Union  Sulphur  Co $23.  03 

1916  "  "         " 28.16 

1917  "  "         " 24.11 

1918  "  "         " 24.11 

1918  "  "         " 30.51 

1919  (None  purchased.) 

Alcohol:  Per  pound 

1916  F.  O.  Boyd  &  Co .06 

1917  American   Distilling  Co .06 

1917  James  A.  Webb  &   Son .074 

1918  American   Distilling  Co .10909 

1919  (None  purchased.) 
Cotton  I  Inters: 

1916  Massosoit  Manufacturing  Co .0698 

1917  "  "  " .  1419 

1917  Standard  Textile  Co .10 

1918  Tennessee  Fibre  Co .1079 

1918    Maridia  Cellulose  Co .0975 

1918  Standard  Textile  Co .0869 

1919  (None  purchased.) 
Diphenyl  amine: 

1916  General  Chemical  Co 1.0036 

1917  National  Chemical  Co .60326 

1917  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Co .  60 

1918  (None  purchased.) 

1919  (None  purchased.) 
Sodium  nitrate: 

1916  H.  J.  Baker  and  Bro .  02375 

1917  "    "       "  "       "    .0198 

1918  Crossman  and  Seilkman .02221 

1918  H.  J.  Baker  and  Bro .  0265715 

1919  (None  purchased.) 
Caustic  soda: 

1916  James  A.   Miller .042 

1917  (None  purchased.) 

1918  Shoemaker   and   Busich .0825 

1918  Wing  Evans,  Ine .  035 

1919  Union  Dye  and  Chemical  Co .  03 

Soda  ash: 

1916  Mackall   Bros .0325 

1917  (None  purchased.) 

1918  Mackall    Bros .0325 

1919  (None  purchased.) 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 


3269 


(2)    ANNUAL  PRODUCTION    SMOKELESS   POWDER    AT   NAVAL   POWDER   FACTORY — FISCAI, 
YEARS    1915-16,    1916-17,   1917-18,  AND   1918-19 


Smokeless  powder 

New 

Reworked 

1915-16 

Pounds 
3, 327, 329 
6, 020, 989 
5, 977,  681 
5, 322, 967 

Pounds 
893, 074 

1916-17 

459, 823 

1917-18 - 

334,936 

1918-19 

799,  2o3 

(3)    ACTUAL  COST  OF   SMOKELESS   POWDER  FOR  FISCAL   YEARS    1915-lG,    1916-17, 
1917-18,   AND   1918-19 

Attached  tabulated  sheet   (enclosure  A)    shows  details  of  powder  mauufac- 
turing  costs  at  the  Naval  Powder  Factory  for  above  years. 

L.  P.  Johnson. 

Enclosure  (a)  with  naval  powder  factory  letter  LL/A9-1(9-1)  of  October  22,  1934.] 

Unit  cost  per  pound  of  smokeless  powder  manufactiired  at  the  Naval  Poioder 
Factory,  Indianhead,  Md.,  for  fiscal  years  1915-16,  1916-17,  1917-18,  1918-19 


19K 

-16 

1916-17 

191- 

•-18 

1918-19 

Items  of  cost 

New 

Re- 
worked 

New 

Re- 
worked 

New 

Re- 
worked 

.  048082 
.  036508 
.  013292 
.  037037 
.  003804 

New 

Re- 
worked 

Direct  cost: 

Raw  materials .    

. 140040 
.  067082 
.  031862 
.  028335 
.  053742 

.  030272 
.  037820 
.015670 
.  032385 
.  004586 

.  187087 
.  057251 
.302885 
.  025465 
.008191 

.  052317 
.  049149 
.018219 
.034166 
.  005101 

.  206463 
.  080158 
.  038070 
.  044503 
.  009705 

.  204445 
.019105 
.053110 
. 051706 
.  004234 

. 078961 

Labor.  -- 

.  069732 

Repairs 

.  032566 

Power 

Other  materials         .  - 

.  066813 
.  003229 

Total  direct  - 

.  321061 

. 062449 
.  033565 
.  000038 
.  023669 

.  120733 

.  062449 
.  033565 
.  000038 
.  023669 

.  310879 

.047111 
.  032766 
.  000440 
.  018495 

.  158952 

.047111 
.  022766 
.  000440 
.  018495 

.  378899 

.  062318 
.  022290 
.016012 
.  033144 

. 138723 

.062318 
.  022290 
.016012 
.  033144 

.  422600 

.  085963 
.024318 
. 000453 
.  035489 

.  251301 

Overhead: 

Includes     station    maintenance 
pay  of  officers,  marines,  enlisted 
personnel,     Medical     Depart- 
ment, tugs,  barges,  railways, 
housing,  schools,  communica- 
tions, grounds,  etc 

.  085963 

Depreciation 

.  024318 

Insurance 

.  000453 

Interest .._        

.  035499 

Total  cost  to  Government 

. 440782 

.  240454 

.  409691 

.  247764 

.  512663 

.  272487 

.  568833 

.  397534 

Exhibit  No.  1142 

[Copied  from  file  no.   P-4755-711E] 

November  14,  1917. 
Hon.  Newton  D.  Baker, 

Secretary  of  War,  ivar  Department. 
My  Dear  Mr.  Secretary  :  You  have  doubtless  heard  that  the  War  Industries 
Board  by  mvitation  of  General  Crozier  had  a  long  conference  today  with  Gen- 
eral Crozier,  Col.  Hotter  and  Mr.  McRoberts,  representing  the  Ordnance  Depart- 
ment, and  Col.  Butler  and  Mr.  du  Pont,  representing  the  du  Pont  Company.  I 
wish  to  say  to  you  confidentially  that  while  our  protest  has  produced  changes 
in  the  contract  which  will  probably  save  the  Government  $5,000,000  or  $6,000,000, 
and  has  modified  one  or  two  other  conditions  of  the  contract  in  the  Govern- 
ment's interest,  it  still  remains  in  shape  where  those  who  expressed  themselves, 
Judge  Lovett,  Mr.  Baruch,  and  myself,  declined  to  approve  it.    While  upon  the 


3270  MuisriTioisrs  industey 

one  hand  Col.  Hoffer  devoted  himself  to  criticising  the  Indian  Head  cost  sub- 
mitted to  you  as  compared  with  the  cost  of  several  kinds  of  material  today, 
upon  the  other  hand  the  du  Pont  people  frankly  admitted  that  they  expected 
to  make  100  per  lb.  under  the  contract.  In  other  words,  that  they  expected  to 
produce  tlie  powder  at  100  less  than  the  fixed  price  mentioned  in  the  contract. 
Practically  the  only  changes  offered  were  to  rebate  6M.'0  of  the  15%  charged 
on  construction  out  of  the  profits  they  would  make  on  operation,  to  be  paid, 
liowever,  in  installments  which  would  require  16  or  18  months  operation  of  the 
plant  in  order  to  secure  it.  The  other  change,  as  I  remember  it,  reduced  their 
compensation  from  50  to  3i/>0  per  lb.  under  certain  conditions  where  the  powder 
cost  more  to  produce  than  the  price  named  in  the  contract. 

My  only  purpose  in  sending  you  this  communication  is  to  emphasize  the 
conviction  which  I  think  we  all  have  in  the  War  Industries  Board  that,  when 
a  large  sum  of  money  like  this  is  to  be  expended,  unless  we  participate  in  the 
first  stages  of  the  conference  and  are  able  to  mold  it  along  lines  which  we  feel 
to  be  fair  and  equitable,  it  is  almost  impossible  to  do  anytlung  with  it.  Gen- 
eral Crozier,  Col.  Hoft'er,  and  Mr.  INIcRoberts  had  reconnnended  in  th-.^  most 
unqualified  way  this  original  contract,  and,  in  our  interviews  with  General 
Crozier  and  Col.  Hoffer,  no  amount  of  arguments  made  any  impression  upon 
them,  as  they  still  insisted  that  the  contract  was  not  only  a  reasonable  one, 
but  one  which  evidenced  the  greatest  generosity  upon  the  part  of  the  du  Ponts. 
You  can  readily  see  how  difficult  it  is  to  get  men  who  have  so  conclusively 
passed  upon  a  proposition  to  admit  that  they  have  made  a  mistake.  I  may  be 
wrong,  but  I  have  the  feeling  that  if  we  had  participated  in  this  negotiation 
from  the  beginning  we  could  have  just  about  reduced  it  one-half,  i.  e.  7V2%  on 
construction  and  probably  2i/^0  per  lb.  for  operation.  Even  this  would  have 
given  them  an  absolutely  secured  profit  of  IVj  million  dollars  per  year  for 
nothing  on  earth  but  directing  the  policy  of  the  company  from  their  main 
office,  as,  of  course,  everything  else  was  chargeable  to  the  cost  of  powder  and 
the  Government  furnished  absolutely  all  the  capital,  and,  by  the  terms  of  the 
contract,  assumed  risk  of  every  kind  and  character. 

On  leaving  the  confei-ence.  General  Crozier  announced  that  he  felt  that,  re- 
gardless of  price  the  Government  must  have  immediate  action  on  this,  and 
immediate  action  could  only  be  had  through  the  du  Ponts,  and  therefore  he 
would  urge  upon  you  the  emergency  necessity  which,  in  his  judgment,  over- 
shadowed all  question  of  cost. 

It  was  suggested  to  the  du  Ponts  that  they  go  ahead  and  construct  this  plant 
and  operate  it  after  construction,  charging  all  cost  of  every  kind  and  character 
to  the  Government,  and,  after  they  had  demonstrated  the  great  service  rendered 
the  Government,  to  leave  to  the  Secretary  of  War  the  question  of  their  compen- 
sation, assuring  them  that  the  Secretary  of  War  could  not  do  other  than  treat 
them  fairly — in  fact  liberally — if  he  assumed  the  responsibility  of  paying  them 
a  fair  price  for  their  service.  They  may  consider  this,  although  I  do  not  think 
it  was  received  very  favorably. 

It  seemed  to  me  that  you  should  have  from  the  War   Industries  Board  as 
quickly  as  possible  our  interpretation  of  this  interview,  and,  not  wishing  to 
intrude  upon  your  much  occupied  time,  I  concluded  it  was  better  to  send  you 
this  communication  at  once  by  bearer. 
Yours  very  respectfully, 

RoBT.  S.  Brooking. 


Exhibit  No.  1143 

[Copy.     File  90] 

November  Seventeenth.  1917. 
New  smokeless-powder  plant  for  Government  authority  for  purchase  of  land. 
To  Mr.  Ir£n^e  nu  Pont. 
To  Mr.  J.  J.  Raskob. 
From  E.  G.  BucKNEai. 

For  your  information  and  records,  we  quote  below  letter  from  the  Chief  of 
Ordnance,  dated  November  15th,  1917 : 

"  1.  Confirming  our  conversation  of  this  afternoon,  I  consider  it  necessary  to 
the  interests  of  the  Government  for  your  company  to  acquire  title  to  the  land 
that  you  have  under  option  for  a  smokeless-powder  plant. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 


3271 


"  2.  It  is  understood  that  your  company  is  willing  to  purchase  the  land  and 
to  either  sell  it  to  the  Government  or  dispose  of  it  to  any  individuals  that  the 
War  Department  may  name  at  the  actual  cost  to  your  company  plus  interest  at 
4  percent. 

•'3.  Your  purchase  of  the  land  will  be  considered  an  acceptance  of  the  con- 
ditions named  above." 


Exhibit  No.  1144 

{Copy,  file  90] 

Washington,  D.  C,  Nov.  21-17. 
Mr.  PiEKRE  S.  Du  Pont, 

Prest.  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  N.  d-  Co.,  Wilmington.  Del. 
Colonel  Buckner  advises  me  that  options  are  beginning  to  expire  on  the  ma- 
chinery fiir  the  proposed  plant  of  one  million  pounds  of  smokeless  powder  per 
day.  The  Department  desires  and  authorizes  you  if  the  prices  are  reasonable 
to  close  all  options  where  action  is  considered  by  your  company  necessary  tO' 
protect  the  Government  in  the  procurement  of  this  machinery.  You  may  close 
these  options  in  the  name  of  the  Ordnance  Department. 

Crozier, 

503  p. 
Copy  to  Ir^n^e  du  Pont,  F.  G.  Tallman,  H.  M.  Pierce. 


Exhibit  No.  1145 

[Copy] 

Statement   of  guncotton  nitrated,   cannon  poicder   manufactured,   and   cannon 
poicdcr  packed,  Old  Hickory  Plant,  Nov.  19,  1918 


Total  this 
month 


Total  to  date 
this  year 


Guncotton  nitrated: 

June 225,751 

July 1-..- 1,835,185 

August--- - 4,486,652 

September _.-- 8,008,034 

October i 9,491,798 

Nov.  1st  to  5th,  inc 2,442,928 

Nov.  6th  to  12th,  inc .- 3,610,790 

Nov.  13th  to  19th,  inc --  2,880,517 

Daily  average  for  period 

Daily  average  for  month 

Cannon  powder  manufactured  (1st  stage): 

July 1,125,932 

August 2,874,084 

September 6,380,042 

October 9,385,036 

Nov.  1st  to  5th,  inc :.  2,077,710 

Nov.  6th  to  12th,  inc 2,587,874 

Nov.  13th  to  19th,  inc ..- 2,329,416 

Daily  average  for  peiod 

Daily  average  for  month 

Cannon  powder  finished: 

August .--.  1,121,100 

September - 3,256, 160 

October 6,754,656 

Nov.  1st  tooth,  inc  .._- 1,  127,400 

Nov.  6th  to  12th,  inc 1,876,500 

Nov.  13th  to  19th,  inc .-  2,001,280 

Daily  average  for  period 

Daily  average  for  month...  ._ 


8,934,235     32,  381. 65  J 
454, 819 
625,  543 


6, 995, 000    26,  760, 096- 
367,  749 
411,470 


5,005,180     16,137,086 
315,991 
294, 422 


3272  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Exhibit  No.  1146 

[Copied  from   file  no.   G-728-323-  E] 

[Copy] 

November  23,  1917. 
Honorable  Newton  D.  Bakeb, 
Searetary  of  War, 

Washinffton,  D.  C. 

Deiab  Sib:  In  view  of  the  complicated  situation  which  has  developed  with 
respect  to  the  proposed  construction  of  military-powder  plants  for  the  United 
States  Government,  I  wish  to  outline  our  point  of  view  in  order  that  no  diflft- 
culties  may  arise  through  failure  on  our  part  to  understand  correctly  this  situa- 
tion from  the  somewhat  conflicting  opinions  that  have  been  expressed. 

The  original  negotiations  for  factories  capable  of  producing  a  million  pounds 
of  smokeless  powder  per  day  to  be  constructed  for  the  Government  and  oper- 
ated as  agent  by  E.  I.  du  Pont  De  Nemours  &  Company  was  suggested  by 
Colonel  Hoffer,  acting  for  General  Crozier.  Our  company  has  constructed  sim- 
ilar factories  of  equal  capacity  within  3  years  and  was  therefore  in  possession 
of  all  information  necessary  for  the  carrying  out  of  this  project.  We  were  able 
to  give  immediate  reply  in  a  definite  proposition  submitted  by  us  to  Colonel 
Hoffer.  To  this  proposition  General  Crozier  replied  by  an  order  dated  October 
25th,  1917,  to  proceed  with  the  work.  During  the  course  of  the  formulation  of 
the  project  there  was  full  discussion  concerning  compensation  to  our  company 
and  later  full  explanation  of  our  position  in  that  respect.  It  was  our  under- 
standing that  the  percentage  charges  and  form  of  plans  were  acceptable  to  you, 
though  we  had  no  definite  assurances  to  that  effect  either  from  you  or  through 
General  Crozier  or  Colonel  Hoffer. 

Immediately  on  receipt  of  order  we  started  to  put  into  effect  plans  which 
had  been  rapidly  developed  during  the  course  of  negotiations.  The  following 
work  was  accomplished  under  the  order: 

We  had  already  selected  several  interior  sites,  in  anticipation  of  probable 
needs  of  the  Government,  and  were  able  to  recommend  immediately  the  most 
desirable  of  these  to  the  oflScers  of  the  Government.  Their  approval  was  given, 
and  immediately  steps  were  taken  to  obtain  options.  The  first  site  at  Charles- 
ton, West  "Virginia,  was  placed  under  option. 

We  negotiated  for  a  second  site  near  Nashville,  Tennessee,  and  obtained  op- 
tions on  a  major  part  of  tlie  necessary  acreage. 

We  brought  together  rapidly  the  manufacturers  of  various  apparatus  and 
placed  oral  orders  amounting  to  $2,369,762  on  which  work  has  been  started. 

We  purchased  a  machine  shop  in  Wilmington  with  a  view  to  quickly  extend- 
ing our  production  of  special  machinery  which  has  heretofore  been  built  in  our 
existing  shops  and  which  cannot  be  obtained  elsewhere. 

It  was  only  after  work  was  well  in  progress  that  we  received  your  telegram, 
as  follows  (dated  October  31,  1917) : 

"  I  have  just  had  presented  to  me  the  details  of  the  proposed  contract  with 
regard  to  increased  capacity  for  powder  production.  This  matter  is  large,  in- 
tricate, and  important.  Do  nothing  about  it  until  you  hear  further  from  me. 
Stay  all  action  under  the  order  until  I  can  acquaint  myself  thoroughly  with  all 
features  of  the  matter." 

Since  then  we  have  delayed  fitting  of  the  new  machine  shop  to  its  special 
purpose,  as  our  company  has  no  use  for  the  property  other  than  that  involved 
in  construction  work  for  the  United  States  Government. 

We  now  have  an  order  given  to  our  vice  president,  E.  G.  Buckner,  to  proceed 
with  the  purchase  of  the  West  Virginia  property  for  the  United  States  Govern- 
ment, under  agreement  that  we  will  be  reimbursed  for  the  cost  plus  4%  interest 
for  the  time  that  our  money  has  been  in  use.  The  purchase  is  now  being 
closed.    Today  we  have  received  a  telegram  from  General  Crozier,  as  follows  • 

"  Colonel  Bufkner  advises  me  that  options  are  beginning  to  expire  on  the 
machinery  for  the  proposed  plant  of  one  million  pounds  of  smokeless  powder  per 
day.  The  Department  desires  and  authorizes  you  if  the  prices  are  reasonable 
to  close  all  options  where  action  is  considered  by  your  company  necessary  to 
protect  the  Government  in  the  procurement  of  this  machinery.  You  may  close 
these  options  in  the  name  of  the  Ordnance  Department.    Cbozieb." 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  3273 

Under  this  telegram  we  will  endeavor  to  close  contracts  for  necessary  ma- 
chinery, but  this  authority  may  not  prove  satisfactory  to  those  who  are  asked 
to  manufacture  apparatus  which  is  entirely  useless  for  purposes  other  than 
the  proposed  factories. 

From  the  above  it  appears  that  we  have  done  promptly  everything  that  it  is 
in  our  power  to  do  to  expedite  the  completion  of  this  important  project. 

We  have  agreed  to  construct  the  ten  proposed  units  of  the  factory,  or  any 
substantial  part  thereof,  or  to  donate  our  plans  of  existing  plants  to  the  Gov- 
ernment should  you  desire  the  work  done  by  others  than  ourselves.  We  have 
agreed  to  do  construction  work  without  profit,  provided  that  the  plants  are 
oi)erated  by  us  for  a  sufficient  length  of  time  to  give  our  company  reasonable 
compensation  for  our  services.  We  have  refused  two  conditions  only :  First,  to 
work  without  proper  compensation ;  second,  to  divide  with  other  contractors  the 
work  at  any  one  site.  The  fir.st  refusal  is  necessary  because  the  directors  of 
our  company,  acting  for  our  stockholders,  have  no  authority  to  do  otherwise. 
Tlie  second  because  the  work  cannot  be  accomplished  promptly  and  properly 
under  divided  responsibility  at  any  one  point. 

You  doubtless  realize  that  the  magnitude  of  this  work  is  very  great,  involv- 
ing as  it  does  transactions  amounting  to  three  hundred  million  dollars.  The 
contractor  acting  as  agent  of  the  Government  must  be  trustworthy  to  a  degree 
not  usually  sought.  I  do  not  know  if  those  responsible  for  the  Government's 
side  of  the  contract  have  satisfied  themselves  with  respect  to  our  company, 
hut  developments  of  the  case  indicate  that  at  least  some  of  those  concerned  have 
iiot  the  confidence  that  the  situation  seems  to  demand.  May  I  ask  that  you  and 
all  others  accepting  responsibility  with  you  satisfy  yourselves  absolutely  on  this 
point.  If.  on  investigation,  you  cannot  yield  to  us  complete  confidence,  it  would 
seem  highly  inadvisable  to  allot  the  whole  or  even  an  important  part  of  this 
■contract  to  us. 

In  this  connection  I  will  call  attention  to  the  history  of  our  development  of 
the  military  powder  industry  since  the  declaration  of  war  in  the  year  1914. 
At  that  time  our  company  was  called  upon  by  several  of  the  Allied  Nations  for 
powdor  supply.  We  did  not  have  factories  in  any  way  equal  to  their  demand, 
nor  (lid  we  have  capital  with  which  to  construct  these  factories  and  supply 
materials.  With  absolute  frankness  we  placed  the  situation  before  our  pros- 
pective customers,  stating  that  we  could  not  undertake  work  of  such  magnitude 
unless  we  were  paid  $1.00  a  pound  for  powder  and  obtained  an  advance  of  500 
per  pound  to  furnish  the  necessary  capital.  Contracts  were  closed  under 
which  we  became  committed  to  the  expenditure  of  over  sixty  million  dollars  in 
the  construction  of  factories.  Immediately  on  the  completion  of  the  first  con- 
tracts at  the  price  named,  we  made  voluntary  reduction  to  a  price  which  we 
believed  proper.  This  figure  again  proved  acceptable.  Since  then  every  price 
named  by  us  to  foreign  customers  has  met  with  approval  without  material  dis- 
cussion. Our  customers  have  expressed  themselves  as  more  than  satisfied  with 
the  treatment  accorded  them  by  our  company.  There  is  no  doubt  that  we  have 
•made  large  profits,  but  their  making  has  enabled  us  to  complete  work  that  has 
not  been  duplicated  elsewhere.  It  has  also  placed  us  in  a  position  to  name 
prices  for  powder  to  the  United  States  Government  befow  those  in  force  before 
the  war,  without  any  amortization  charge  whatever  to  cover  use  of  factories 
which  will  shortly  be  permanently  dismantled.  When  these  low  prices  were 
named  to  the  United  States  Government  a  like  reduction  was  made  in  offers  to 
the  Allied  Governments,  much  to  their  satisfaction.  It  is  impossible  from  the 
record  of  recent  years  to  cite  an  instance  where  our  conduct  was  unfair  or 
where  improper  profits  were  exacted. 

With  the  assurance  of  our  earnest  desire  and  entire  willingness,  as  always, 
to  aid  the  Government  in  any  way  in  our  power,  we  feel  that  this  matter  lias 
now  been  delayed  so  long  and  has  become  so  complicated  that  we  should  express 
to  ynu  in  writing  our  willingness  to  withdraw  or  to  proceed  under  the  modi- 
fication of  the  order  suggested  by  the  Ordnance  Department  on  Saturday, 
November  17th.  May  we  ask  for  a  prompt  decision  as  to  which  of  these 
<'ourses  is  to  be  pursued? 
Very  truly  yours, 

E.  I.  Du  Pont  de  Nbmoubs  &  Company, 
(Signed)     Pierre  S.  du  Pont,  President. 


3274  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Exhibit  No.  1147 

extract  from   minutes   of  executive  commiit^ee   meeting   no.    187,   held  on 

january  is,   19  is 

Resolved,  That  the  (levelopineut  department  be  authorized  to  pay  .$3,25t>,0U0 
for  tlie  properties  oi  the  Federal  Dyestuffs  &  Chemical  Corporation  as  outlined 
in  their  report  of  January  17,  1918 ;  provided,  we  are  able  to  clothe  a  contract 
with  suitable  advance-payment  clause  with  the  U.  S.  Government  or  others  for 
the  sale  of  picric  acid  at  a  price  and  in  an  amount  sufficient  to  net  us  a  fair 
prolit  after  amortizing  the  entire  cost  of  this  investment,  including  the  cost  of 
necessary  construction  work  to  manufacture  picric  acid  including  sulphuric 
acid  plants ;  jirovided  further,  that  before  determining  the  amount  to  be  amor- 
tized there  sliall  be  deducted  a  credit  of  $500,000  covering  the  estimated  value 
of  the  dye  investment  to  our  company. 


Exhibit  No.  1148 

excerpts  from  special  meeting  of  the  wak  industries  boardi  heid  monday, 
november  26,  1917,  at  11  :  00  a.m.  at  room  54,  c.n.d.  building 

November  2G,  1917. 
Hon.  Newton  D.  Baker, 

Secretary  of  War. 

Dear  Sir  :  After  cousideral)le  deliberation  and  discussion  of  the  two  pro- 
posals for  the  erection  of  a  powder  plant,  we  have  concluded  that  there  is  much 
technical  expert  service  to  be  rendered  in  the  construction  and  equipment  of 
this  plant  not  fully  covered  in  the  Graham-Sterritt  proposition.  AVe  are  of  the 
further  opinion  that  the  emergency  nature  of  the  case  required  that  the  pro- 
posed plant  lie  constructed  in  the  least  possiljle  time  and  optTUted  with  the 
greatest  etiicieucy,  and  based  upon  the  best  evidence  we  have — which  is  that 
of  demonstration — it  is  our  opinion  that  the  du  Pont  people  are  in  every  way 
the  best  fitted  for  securing  this  result. 

Inasmuch,  however,  as  we  have  so  far  been  unable  to  agree  with  the 
du  Fonts  as  to  what  would  be  fair  compensation  for  the  erection  and  operation 
of  the  plant,  we  recommend  that  you  invite"^  the  responsible  heads  of  the 
Du  Pont  Company  to  meet  you  at  your  office  and  that  you  say  to  them  that 
the  emergency  nature  of  the  Government  needs  is  such  that  you  must  insist 
upon  their  taking  hold  of  the  project  without  further  <lelay,  and,  as  the  Gov- 
ernment's agent,  proceed  to  construct,  organize,  and  operate  the  plants,  aggre- 
gating approximately  1,000,000  lbs.  capacity  per  day,  in  the  shortest  time  pos- 
sible, the  Government  to  pay  every  dollar  of  expense  connected  therewith,  as 
the  work  progresses ;  that  inasmuch  as  we  have  not  agreed  as  to  what  would 
be  fair  compensation  for  their  services  both  in  the  erection  and  operation  of 
tlie  plant,  and  inasmuch  as  they  mUiSt,  of  course,  be  willing  to  accept  fair 
compensation  for  their  services  and  the  Government  being  perfectly  willing 
to  pay  fair  compensation. 

Now,  therefore,  the  Government  proposes  to  pay  them  $1,000,000  in  advance 
on  account  of  the  net  profit  or  compensation  to  them  over  and  above  all  cost  of 
construction  and  operation  and  that  pending  the  completion  of  the  contract, 
i.  e.,  18  months  after  the  first  unit  is  ready  for  oi:)eration.  the  Government, 
through  the  Secretary  of  War,  will  endeavor  to  negotiate  with  them  from  time 
to  time  as  to  what,  if  any,  additional  compensation  they  should  fairly  receive 
for  their  services,  and  on  the  completion  of  the  contract  if  the  Du  Pont  Com- 
pany and  the  Secretary  of  War  have  not  been  able  to  agree  upon  such  sum, 
then  the  matter  shall  be  left  to  the  usual  form  of  arbitration — that  is,  eadi 
party  to  select  one  arbitrator  and  the  two  so  selected  to  agree  upon  a  third, 
the  findings  of  the  two  of  these  three  to  be  binding  upon  both  interested  parties. 

I  may  add  that  this  recommendation  of  the  AVar  Industries  Board  is 
unanimous. 

Respectfully  submitted. 

(Signed)     Danieil  Willabd,  Ch<i<irman. 

Tlie  meeting  adjourned  at  3 :  00  o'clock  p.m. 

(Signed)     H.  P.  Bingham,  Secretary. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY  3275 

Exhibit  No.  1149 

[File   90] 

NOVKMBKI!  28,  1917. 
To:  Board  of  Directors. 
From  :  President. 

At  the  request  of  the  Secretary  of  War,  I  visited  Washington  ye.-terday  and 
learned  from  him  the  decision  in  regard  to  contract  for  proposed  Government 
«>mokeless  powder  plants. 

Tlie  Secretary  informed  me  that  a  meeting  liad  been  held  the  day  l>efore,  at 
wliich  were  present  the  War  Industries  Board.  General  Crozier,  and  himself. 
He  and  General  Crozier  had  presented  opposite  opinions.  The  S.'cv?*^ary 
being  in  favor  of  giving  the  vvork  to  other  contractors  and  architects,  iivAi  as 
Mr.  Graham,  who  has  visited  our  plants  with  the  i)urpose  of  learning  the 
nature  of  the  work  to  be  accomplished.  The  Secretary  evidently  realized  that 
I  understood  that  Mr.  Graham  was  willing  to  undertake  the  w^n-k,  for  he  sal(i. 
"You  understand,  of  cours\  that  Mr.  Graham  has  made  no  hid."  He  th^n 
said  that  the  War  Industries  Board  had  made  a  decision,  which,  though  con- 
trary to  his  own  views,  he  had  decided  to  adopt.  The  decision  is  artached 
hereto. 

After  reading  this  letter  of  the  War  Industries  Board.  I  told  the  Secretiiry 
that  I  would  not  assume  the  resiMinsibility  of  a  decision  :  that  imr  directors 
were  to  meet  today,  and  I  would  la.y  the  matter  before  them  with  the  recom- 
mendation that  v\-o  do  no  accept  the  proposition  of  the  War  Industries'  Board. 

The  words  "  you  nmst  insist  up<m  their  taking  hold  of  the  proje;T  without 
further  delay ".  and  .son.e  remarks  of  the  Secretary  lead  me  to  make  the 
statement  that  if  the  Government  had  iiower  to  commandeer  our  services  we 
should  insist  tliat  such  power  be  exercised  in  order  to  relieve  \is  of  responsi- 
bility that  we  could  not  assume  ourselves.  The  Secretary  replied  that  he  was 
not  sure  of  the  law,  but  did  not  h?lieve  the  Government  had  power  of  insistence. 

As  the  Secretary  had  approved  of  the  compensation  agreed  up<  n,  I  called 
attention  to  that  understanding,  to  which  he  reidied  that  our  jtrofit  on  the  work 
might  be  anywhere  from  .$13,00i>,000  to  $30,000,000,  that  his  mind  could  not 
conceive  of  services  of  anyone  being  worth  such  a  price.  In  view  of  this  opinion 
and  the  words  of  the  War  Industries  Board,  in  which  they  propose  to  negotiate 
"  as  to  what,  if  any,  acjditional  compensation  tht^y  shou'd  fairly  receive  for  their 
services"  (above  the  million  dollars  which  it  is  proposed  to  advance  on  profit 
account)  it  appeal's  to  me  that  Wash'ngton  dot>s  not  value  our  services  highly. 
Assume  the  cost  of  powder  at  S-l^"-  per  pound  and  the  amount  manufactured, 
450,000,000  lbs.,  the  total  transaction  including  the  cost  of  plant  at  $90,(X>0,000 
will  amount  to  about  .$250,000,000.  The  profit  named  by  the  Secretary  will 
amount  to  from  5  to  12%.  The  $1,000,000  proposed  by  the  War  Industries 
Board  is  i/4  of  one  percent,  so  that  the  largest  addition  that  we  might  expect 
to  be  added  to  this  amount  would  leave  a  profit  wholly  inadequate  for  so  great 
an  undertaking. 

As  I  pointed  otit  to  the  Secretary,  the  agreement  of  the  Government  to  pay 
promptly  for  all  obligations  incun-ed  does  not  relieve  us  of  responsibility.  In 
the  first  place,  the  validity  of  our  agency  cannot  be  established  outside  of 
courts,  and  no  matter  what  precautions  may  be  taken  through  the  organization 
of  the  subsidiary  engineering  company  we  may  become  liable  in  some  way. 
Furthermore,  if  the  work  is  to  be  accomplished  we  must  proceed  with  it  without 
stoppage  or  delay  of  any  kind.  If  the  Government  should  suddenly  conmiand 
us  as  their  agent  to  cease  work,  as  they  have  already  done  twice,  we  would  be 
obligated  to  assume  great  financial  responsibilities  in  order  to  avoid  a  complete 
collapse  of  the  project.     This  the  Secretary  could  not  deny. 

I  believe  that  I  am  right  in  saying  that  our  interest  in  this  project  has  been 
created  through  a  desire  to  be  of  service  to  the  Government  at  a  critical  time. 
We  have  all  believed  that  as  a  business  project  we  should  not  entertain  the 
proposition  in  any  way.  The  developments  of  the  past  month  have  shown  that 
there  is  not  urgent  haste,  otherwise  we  would  have  been  allowed  to  proceed 
immediately.  Second.  We  have  not  the  implicit  confidence  of  the  Government, 
which  will  be  necessary  if  we  are  to  do  this  work  successful.  Third.  In  the 
opinion  of  the  Secretary,  who  is  the  responsible  head  of  the  War  Department; 
we  are  not  necessarj-  to  the  project  and  our  services  are  being  forced  upon  him 
against  his  recommendation. 

Fourth.  The  delay  that   has   already   occurred   forcing  us  further   into   the 
winter  season  and  the  methods  that  are  to  be  adopted  by  the  Government  show 
83876— 35— PT  14 8 


3276  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

that  our  services  cannot  be  of  the  value  we  supposed.  We  are  unaccustomed  to 
handling  Government  contracts  of  this  kind,  and  I  doubt  extremely  if  we  have 
an  organization  capable  of  moulding  itself  to  Government  conditions. 

Id  view  of  the  above  I  recommend  that  we  decline  the  oft'er  of  the  War 
Industries  Board,  as  presented  by  the  Secretary  of  War,  and  recommend  to  the 
latter  that  he  employ  other  contractors  as  we  have  reached  the  conclusion  that 
our  services  to  the  Government  have  not  the  value  that  we  had  supposed. 

President. 

Whereas  this  board  feel  that  our  proposition  will  result  in  a  net  total  com- 
pensation to  us  of  not  more  than  10%  on  the  construction  cost  and  15%  on  the 
operating  cost  involved  in  the  revised  order  suggested  by  General  Crozier,  under 
date  of ;  and 

Whereas  this  boai-d  feel  that  the  War  Industries  Board  must  be  of  the  opinion 
that  the  compensation  may  run  materially  in  excess  of  this  amount : 

Resolved,  That  the  Secretary  of  War  be  advised  that  we  are  perfectly  willing 
to  add  a  clause  to  the  suggested  revised  order  now  before  them  under  which  our 
company  will  agree  that  in  no  event  will  the  total  compensation  received  by  this 
company  be  an  amount  greater  than  10%  of  the  actual  cost  of  construction 
and  15%  of  the  actual  mill  cost  of  powder  produced  at  these  plants  under  our 
operation,  as  specified  in  the  suggested  revised  order,  this  clause,  however,  shall 
not  operate  in  the  event  of  the  Government  discontinuing  this  suggested  revised 
order  within  six  months  from  the  date  of  its  execution ; 

Resolved  further,  That  we  re.spectfully  decline  the  offer  of  the  War  Industries 
Board  as  presented  by  the  Secretary  of  War,  and  that  the  president  address  a 
letter  to  the  War  Industries  Board  with  a  copy  to  the  Secretary  of  War  out- 
lining our  position  in  this  whole  matter,  a  copy  of  which  letter  will  be  spread 
on  the  records  of  this  meeting. 

Exhibit  No.   1150 

HXTKACT  FROM    MINUTES   OF    MEETING   OF   BOARD   OF   DIRECTORS    OF   E.    I.    DU    PONT   DE 
NEMOUES  &  COMPANY  HEDLD  ON  NOVEMBER  2  8,   1917 

On  motion,  duly  made  and  seconded,  the  following  resolution  was  unanimously 
adopted : 

Whereas  in  the  judgment  of  this  board  this  company's  revised  proposal  de- 
clined by  the  War  Industries  Board,  by  letter  of  November  26,  1917,  will,,  if 
accepted,  return  us  a  net  total  compensation  of  not  more  than  10%  on  the 
construction  cost  and  15%  on  the  operating  cost,  and 

Whereas  this  board  feels  that  the  War  Industries  Board  must  be  of  the 
opinion  that  the  compensation  may  be  materially  in  excess  of  the  above  per- 
centages :  Therefore,  be  it 

Resolved,  That  the  Secretary  of  War  be  advised  that  this  board  is  willing 
to  add  a  clause  to  its  said  revised  proposal  under  and  by  which  the  du  Pont 
Company  will  agree  that  in  no  event  shall  the  total  compensation  received  by 
this  company  be  an  amount  greater  than  10%  of  the  actual  construction  cost 
and  15%  of  the  actual  mill  cost  of  powder  produced  at  said  plants  under  our 
operation,  as  specified  in  said  revised  proposal ;  this  clause,  however,  not  to  be 
operative  in  the  event  of  the  Government  discontinuing  operations  under  said 
revised  proposal  within  six  months  from  the  date  of  its  execution ;  and  be  it 
further 

Resolved,  That  we  respectfully  decline  the  offer  of  the  War  Industries  Board 
as  contained  in  letter  of  the  Board,  dated  November  26,  1917,  to  the  Secretary 
of  War,  and  the  president  of  this  company  is  requested  to  address  a  letter  to 
the  War  Industries  Board,  with  copy  thereof  to  the  Secretary  of  War,  outlining 
our  position  in  this  matter,  and  that  a  copy  of  said  letter  be  made  a  part  of  the 
minutes  of  this  meeting. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3277 

Exhibit  No.  1151 
[Copy  fronf  file  no.  GE-471.5— 635.1-21] 

Dek;ember  1,  1917. 

D.    WiLLAKD, 

Chciirman  War  Industries  Bom-d,  Washhiffton,  D.  C. 

Dear  Sir:  The  Secretary  of  War  has  tran-smitted  to  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours 
&  Company  the  letter  of  your  Board  dated  November  26th,  1917.  outlining  a 
proposal  for  construction  and  operation  for  the  United  States  Government  of 
factories  capable  of  producing  1,000,000  pounds  of  military  smokeless  powder 
per  day.  The  responsibility  imposed  in  the  acceptance  of  the  proposal  is  so 
great  that  it  was  referred  to  the  board  of  directors  of  the  company  for  their 
decision.  At  a  meeting  held  November  28th,  1917,  the  proposition  was  given 
most  careful  and  lengthy  consideration,  not  only  from  the  point  of  view  of 
financial  advantage  to  the  company  but  from  the  side  of  the  Government  with 
full  appreciation  of  its  needs,  the  gravity  of  the  situation  and  the  appeal  of 
patriotism.  As  a  result  the  board  of  directors  have  requesteil  that  this  letter 
be  addressed  to  the  War  Industries  Board,  respectfully  declining  their  offer  of 
November  26th. 

It  is  important  that  thei'e  may  be  no  misunderstanding  of  motive  and  no 
failure  to  exactly  meet  the  minds  of  those  who  have  the  responsibility  of  pro- 
viding the  powder  supply  for  the  proper  conduct  of  the  war.  Therefore  a  com- 
plete picture  of  the  situation  as  presented  to  our  officers  and  directors  is  given : 

E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  are  the  owners  of  about  ninety  per- 
cent of  the  military  smokeless  powder  producing  capacity  of  the  United  States. 
We  are  credibly  informed  that  our  capacity  is  equal  to  that  of  Great  Britain 
and  France  combined.  Practically  all  of  our  plants  are  now  in  operation,  includ- 
ing land,  waterworks,  cotton  purification,  sulphuric  and  nitric  acid  factories, 
guncotton,  ether,  and  diphenylamine  manufacture;  rectification  of  alcohol; 
recovery  of  that  ingredient,  of  sulphuric  acid,  of  nitric  acid,  and  of  caustic 
soda ;  neutralization  of  waste  water ;  villages  for  housing  employees  and  a 
■continuous  daily  output  of  1,300,000  pounds  of  military  powder  has  been 
developed  by  our  engineers  and  operative  forces  since  November  1914.  In 
that  period  of  time  these  plants  have  produced  nearly  750,0(X).000  pounds  of 
military  propellants.  It  is  known  that  others  in  the  United  States,  with 
ample  opportunity  and  unhandicapped  by  our  control  of  any  basic  patent 
or  monopolistic  advantage,  have  failed  to  develop  as  we  have  done.  Abroad 
-we  believe  that  neither  our  speed  nor  our  economy  of  production  was  matched, 
though  the  spur  of  necessity  bore  heavily  upon  those  in  charge  of  furnishing 
the  powder  supply. 

In  contracting  to  build  and  operate  these  factories  for  foreign  customers, 
now  our  allies  in  the  war,  a  uniform  charge  of  one  dollar  per  pound  of 
powder  was  made.  Though  in  retrospect  this  price  may  now  seem  extremely 
liigh,  the  directors  and  officers  of  our  company  can  testify  as  to  their  misgivings 
and  sense  of  deep  responsibility  in  accepting,  even  at  that  price,  contracts 
calling  for  extreme  rapidity  of  construction  and  operation  in  order  to  make 
deliveries  in  specified  time.  It  was  not  only  necessary  to  produce  promptly 
in  order  to  earn  a  profit,  but  certain  deliveries  were  required  to  insure  the 
amortization  of  factories  whose  cost  alone,  without  materials  to  operate,  almost 
■equaled  the  entire  capitalization  of  our  company,  including  its  then  bonded 
debt.  Failure  meant  loss  of  all  profit  on  this  important  and  onerous  under- 
taking, and  the  company  faced  possible  financial  embarrassment  had  we  met 
with  serious  reverses. 

When  amortization  charges  were  covered  we  voluntarily  reduced  our  prices, 
so  that  in  April  1917  our  price  was  600  per  pound.  When  our  Government 
asked  for  bids  we  again  voluntarily  made  a  reduction  and  offered  to  all  cus- 
tomers for  prompt  delivery  millions  of  pounds  of  smokeless  powder  at  47% <* 
per  pound,  a  price  never  before  equaled  even  in  time  of  peace.  However,  the 
price  was  afterwards  raised  to  49'^/2(t  per  pound  in  order  to  cover  the  advance 
in  price  of  one  essential  material.     This  price  now  prevails. 

Throughout  our  foreign  customers  have  placed  absolute  reliance  upon  the 
ability  of  the  company  to  manufacture  powder  for  them  and  have  advanced 
for  construction  and  operation  of  the  factories  very  large  sums  of  money, 
so  that  at  times  we  held  in  excess  of  $100,000,000  of  their  ca.sh  without  any 


3278  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

security  whatever,  excepting  the  credit  of  the   company   and  its  good   name. 
That  their  confidence  was  not  misplaced  is  shown  in  the  result. 

The  Allied  Nations  have  so  far  received  from  us  over  700,000,000  pounds  of 
military  smokeless  powders. 

During  a  period  of  three  years  every  pound  of  powder  has  been  delivered 
on  time  and  not  a  complaint  has  been  received  as  to  th;-  quality  of  any  powiler 
shipped  and  there  has  been  no  contention  or  dispute  over  any  part  of  the 
contracts  or  their  execution. 

From  the  above  it  is  evident  that  the  United  States  Government  now  enjoys 
the  advantage  of  an  enormous  and  certain  pdwder  supply  amouiiting  to 
^■iO.OOO.OOU  pounds  per  annum,  at  a  low  price,  and  without  necessity  of  paying 
one  cent  for  amortizing  these  factories  who.se  cost  at  today's  prices  would  he 
$i;iU,CO0,0OO,  and  without  submitting  to  any  delay  for  their  building. 

The  history  of  this  development  is  all  important  at  present,  for  the  Govern- 
ment now  calls  upon  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemouns  &  Company  t(i  duplicate  its 
former  accomplishment  at  a  time  when  war  conditions  impose  great  difficulties 
in  obtaining  labor  and  materials,  as  compared  to  the  year  1915,  when  con- 
struction work  could  be  undertaken  under  favorable  circumstances. 

Our  officers  have  given  closest  study  to  the  causes  leading  to  success  but  so 
far  have  failed  to  find  any  one  or  more  specific  things  that  have  seemed  to 
govern.     A  few  general  conditions  we  believe  have  been  essentials : 

1st.  The  absolute  confidence  of  our  customers  and  our  employees. 

2nd.  The  placing  of  responsibility  upon  our  men  and  upholding  their  decisions. 

3rd.  The  offering  of  proper  financial  inducement  to  all  enujloyees  and  gen- 
erous reward  to  every  man   who  shows  extraordinary  attainments. 

4th.  The  pursuit  of  normal  methods  in  conducting  a  very  large  business  under 
{srcsperous  conditions. 

V>^e  have  insisted  that  these  general  conditions  be  safeguarded  in  our  propo- 
sition to  the  United  States  Government ;  that  is,  this  work  is  to  be  allotted  to  us 
as  agent  of  the  Guvernuient  with  absolute  power  as  to  the  exercise  of  our 
judgment  and  discretion  in  irs  accomplishment.  It  is  provided  that  the  cost 
of  work  is  to  include  an  agi'eed  percentage  to  cover  necessary,  overhead  expen.ses 
and  extra  compensation  to  the  men  who  make  the  enterprise  successful.  Apart 
from  these  percentages  there  is  to  be  a  normal  compensati*  ii  to  the  company 
with  addition  thereto  if  costs  are  reduced  below  an  agreed  Imse  figure. 

In  arriving  at  the  terms  of  the  (jrder  as  it  now  stands  we  foresaw  the  pos- 
sibility of  a  failure  to  operate  the  proposed  factories  after  their  ciimpletion. 
We.  therefore,  asked  compensation  for  construction  work  agreeing  that  this 
should  be  GV^'/f  on  the  cost  thereof.  This  condition  was  pnmptly  eliminated 
when  the  Ordnance  Department  proposed  that  sinular  compen.sation  would  be 
guaranteed  through  the  operations  of  the  factories. 

We  also  asked  a  minimum  compensation  on  operation.  At  first  5^  per  pound 
on  a  base  cost  of  44i/j<?  was  proposed.  By  this  means  the  (Government  was  to  be 
iissured  powder  at  today's  price  and  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company 
was  to  be  guaranteed  a  pre  fit  of  1114%  on  cost.  In.  naming  this  price  we  were 
(•(mfident  that  probable  conditions  would  enable  us  to  reduce  the  base  cost  which 
was  iiroposed  as  an  insurance  provision  only.  Therefore,  we  have  not  counted 
material  ti.e  change  now  e.stablished.  namely,  a  base  price  of  46«'  with  guaran- 
teed compensation  of  3Vi!<^,  even  though  this  amounts  to  7.6%  only  on  cost  of 
manufactures. 

The  offer  as  now  worded  does  not  leave  us  more  than  a  small  profit  unless 
v,e  attain  complete  success.  Thus,  should  we  numufacture  our  estimate  of  full 
output  for  the  eighteen  months  operation  (325,000,000  pounds  if  factories  are 
operated  until  February  1st,  1920)  at  base  cost  of  4G«',  the  profit  of  SVo^  per 
l>ound  is  .5%  only  on  the  total  expenditure  of  $247,000,000  (this  include's  cost 
of  factories  at  the  estimate  of  $97,200,000).  If  operations  at  full  output  should 
<i>ntinue  until  August  1st.  1919,  only  producing  175,000,000  pounds  of  powder 
the  <'o.st  must  fall  to  4Oy20  per  pound  in  order  to  return  to  us  61/2 7o  on  total 
ex])enditure.  If,  however,  we  meet  greatest  success  in  turning  out  the  full  out- 
put of  325,000,000  pounds  of  powder,  c(»st  must  fall  to  an  average  of  36<'  per 
prunrl  on  the  entire  contract  in  order  that  the  return  to  us  may  represent  a 
commission  of  10%  on  cost  of  construction  and  15%  on  cost  of  powder. 

We  believe  that  a  further  reduction  of  cost  lielow  360  pel-  pound  entitles  us 
to  participation  in  their  savings  even  though  our  profit  on  operation  should 
exceed  157c  of  cost.     Such  reduction  must  be  conceded  extraordinary  as  the 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3279 

average  cost  is  figured  on  eighteen  months  operation  during  ten  of  which  new 
units  of  manufacture  will  be  continually  l)rought  into  commission.  However, 
if  such  such  inducement  to  further  economy  is  considered  unwise  by  the  War 
Industries  Biiard  our  directors  are  willing  to  abide  by  that  decision  and  will 
submit  to  a  further  modifieatidn  of  the  order  under  which  the  maximum  com- 
pensation to  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  will  be  limited  to  10% 
en  cost  t>f  construction  and  15%  on  cost  of  manufacture  as  above  indicated. 

Whatever  may  be  the  position  in  regard  to  the  compensation  of  E.  I.  du 
Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company,  the  essential  point  of  iiiterost  is  the  cost  of 
powder  to  the  Government.  Prior  to  the  war  the  price  of  powder  was  fixed 
by  congressional  act  at  53(f  per  pound.  War  conditions  have  added  lOf  pei- 
pound  to  this  cost  for  essential  ingredients  alone;  so  that  today's  comparative 
fiirnre  should  be  (iSt  per  pound  without  any  additional  allowance  to  the 
powder  manufacturer.  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  has  reduced  this 
figure  by  2l9f  and  is  now  selling  to  the  Government  at  3Vi;«^  below  pre-war 
j'rice  fixed  by  Congress.  Under  the  order  now  before  the  War  Industries  Board 
tiie  Government  may  obtain  powder  at  4-iV>t,  or  16%  below  i>re-war  prices  in 
face  of  the  above  mentioned  advance  in  essential  materials  of  10(^  per  pound. 
We  Iielieve  that  a  similar  condition  does  not  exist  in  any  other  business  and 
that  in  the  purchase  of  all  other  supplies  the  Government  is  paying  a  very 
substantial  advance  over  pre-war  figures. 

We  have  responded  quickly  to  every  demand  of  the  Ordnance  Department 
in  the  formulation  of  plans  for  the  construction  and  operation  of  the  proposed 
factories,  but  have  made  it  clear  at  the  outset  that  we  do  not  seek  the  whole 
or  any  part  of  this  contract.  The  additional  risks  and  l)urdens  placed  upon  us 
cannot  he  compensated  by  financial  return  so  that  our  willingness  to  negotiate 
has  been  based  entirely  upon  the  necessities  of  the  Government  and  the  belief 
that  our  company  is  not  only  the  best  equipped  for  executing  the  work  promptly, 
but  practical  iy  the  only  organization  capable  of  so  doing. 

The  order  of  General  Crozier  dated  October  25,  1917,  we  thought  official 
and  final.     On  its  receipt  work  was  begun  by  us. 

At  once  we  were  able  to  recommend  the  most  desirable  of  several  sites 
wliich  had  been  selected  b.v  us  after  careful  examination.  The  approval  of 
the  Ordnance  Department  was  given  and  the  first  site  at  Charleston.  West 
Virginia,  placed  under  option. 

We  negotiated  for  a  second  site  near  Nashville,  Tennessee,  and  obtained 
options  on  a  major  part  of  the  necessary  acreage. 

We  brought  together  rapidly  the  manufacturers  of  various  apparatus  i'.nd 
placed  oral  orders  amounting  to  ,$2,369,762  on  which  work  was  started. 

We  purchased  a  machine  shop  in  Wilmington,  Delaware,  with  a  view  to 
quickly  extending  our  production  of  special  machinery  which  has  heretofore 
been  built  in  our  existing  shops  and  which  cannot  be  obtained  elsewhere. 

All  of  this  was  accomplished  within  six  days  after  the  order  was  placed. 

On  October  31st,  1917,  we  received  the  following  telegram  from  the  Secretary 
of  War: 

"  I  have  just  had  presented  to  me  the  details  of  the  proposed  contract  with 
regard  to  increased  capacity  for  powder  production.  This  matter  is  large, 
intricate,  and  important.  Do  nothing  about  it  until  you  hear  further  from  me. 
Stay  all  action  under  the  order  until  I  can  acquaint  myself  thoroughly  with 
all  features  of  the  matter." 

Since  then,  or  for  a  period  of  one  month,  everything  has  been  held  in  abeyance. 

We  do  not  know  of  any  criticism  as  to  the  fairness  of  the  compensation  pro- 
posed for  the  constniction  and  operation  of  these  plants.  The  stumbling  block 
seems  to  be  the  payment  of  the  whole  compensation  to  one  corporation,  espe- 
cially to  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company.  To  meet  this  difficulty  we 
have  offered  to  surrender  any  part  of  the  work,  or  preferably,  the  whole  of 
it,  and  to  furnish  other  constractors  with  drawings  of  existing  plants  free  of 
charge.     We  have  insisted  on  two  things  only: 

First,  that  we  shall  not  be  responsible  for  mistakes  of  others — that  is,  we 
will  not  operate  a  factory  built  by  others  nor  will  we  build  a  factory  to  be 
operated  by  others — and  on  any  one  factory  site  the  entire  work  shall  be  done 
by  us. 

Second,  that  for  any  part  of  the  work  done  by  us  we  shall  receive  a  rate  of 
compensation  that  is  fair,  even  though  the  total  amount  of  money  so  received 
may  seem  large  if  the  magnitude  of  the  work  involved  is  not  considered. 


3280 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 


In  attempting  to  duplicate  our  past  record  for  tlie  United  States  Government, 
under  conditions  that  are  more  exacting  and  difficult  than  heretofore  experi- 
enced, we  must  insist  that  the  above-mentioned  general  conditions  be  continued 
as  they  now  exist  in  the  order  of  General  Crozier.  Without  them  we  cannot 
undertake  the  work,  as  otherwise  such  undertaking  will  result  in  disappoint- 
ment at  a  time  w^hen  failure  cannot  be  tolerated. 

We  therefore  submit  that  the  following  must  be  of  the  essence  of  our  contract 
with  the  United  States  Government  in  this  important  work : 

First.  The  absolute  confidence  of  the  Government  in  us  and  our  ability  to 
perform  the  duties  alloted  to  us.  This  confidence  we  will  continue  to  impose 
upon  our  men  in  full  belief  that  they  will  respond  as  they  have  in  the  past. 

Second.  The  responsibility  to  us  for  ultimate  success  of  the  undertaking  with- 
out interference.  We  will,  in  turn,  divide  this  responsibilty  among  our  men, 
and  again  they  will  succeed. 

Third.  A  decision  as  to  proper  compensation  for  our  services,  including  an 
allowance  for  extraordinary  performance  such  as  that  already  named  in  the 
order  of  October  25th  issued  by  General  Crozier. 

It  is  with  deepest  regret  that  we  find  ourselves  unable  to  accept  the  plan 
of  the  War  Industries  Board,  but  trust  that  this  letter  of  explanation,  together 
with  our  willingness  to  limit  our  compensation  in  the  manner  above  stated, 
will  enable  the  Board  to  reach  a  conclusion  in  this  important  affair. 
Very  truly  yours, 

E.  I.  DU  Pont  db  Nemours  &  Company, 
Pie:rbe  S.  du  Pont,  President. 
124. 


Exhibit  No.  1152 


Statement  of  sales  to  U.  S.  Government,  1899-1914,  inclusive,  including  du  Pont, 
Laflin  d  Rand,  and  International  companies,  but  excluding  California  Poivdev 
Worhs,  1899-1902,  with  calculations  on  investment,  permanent  and  working 
capital  (excluding  gooduyill,  etc.),  and  percent  return  thereon 


Fixed 
invest., 
less  de- 
preciation 

Working 
capital 

Total 

Lbs.  sold 

Gross 
per  lb. 

Net 
per  lb. 

Profit 

%net 
inve.st- 
ment 

Net 
profit 
on  pow- 
der to 
Beth- 
lehom 
&c. 

1899-.- - 

607,  620 
1,  038, 031 
1, 145. 893 
1, 181,  490 
1, 522,  333 
1,  456,  032 
1,  636,  471 
1,736,658 
1,  641,  418 
1,  640,  591 
1,  610, 001 
1,  748,  032 
1.  726, 051 
1,  592,  402 
1,  596,  750 
1,  514,  588 

444,  961 
609,  458 
786,  036 
987,  552 
1,  712,  222 
2,004,111 
2,931,783 
2, 077.  418 
1,  619,  207 
1,  748, 824 
1,  228,  419 
1,  873,  373 
1,  772,  955 
1,494,909 
1,  822,  693 
1,  770, 149 

1,  052,  581 
1,  647,  489 

1,  931,  929 

2,  169,  042 

3,  234,  555 

3,  460, 142 

4,  568,  255 
3, 814, 076 
3,  260,  625 
3,389.415 

2,  838,  420 

3,  621,  405 
3,  499,  005 
3,  087,  310 
3,  419,  443 
3,  284,  737 

569,  473 
999,  196 
1, 284,  431 
1, 120,  565 
3.  068.  562 
3,  574,  235 
5, 042, 144 
5. 039,  957 
2.777,016 
3,  686,  322 

3,  474,  608 
3, 010,  709 
5,  585,  261 

4,  935,  272 

3,  001,  591 

4,  218.  444 

79.  42ji 

81.18 

79.27 

73.32 

71.99 

71.74 

72.08 

71.10 

71.10 

71.85 

09.  74 

65. 93 

62.02 

60.95 

60.01 

55.  44 

7. 170 
24.49 
21.52 
24.04 
28.61 
31.87 
36.35 
33.39 
26.16 
26.  87 
23.11 
22. 60 
25.98 
25.64 
23.38 
22.46 

40, 831 

244,  703 

276, 410 

269, 384 

877, 916 

1, 139, 109 

1, 832. 819 

1,  682, 842 

726,  467 

990,  515 

802,  982 

680,  434 

1,451,051 

1,  265,  404 

701,  772 

947,  463 

3.88 
14.85 
1130 
12.42 
27.14 
32.92 

1900 

1901- 

1902-     

1903 

1904- 

1905 

40.12 
44.12 

1906- -  . 

1907 - 

22.28 
29  22 

1908 

1909 -.- 

28.29 
18.79 
41.47 
40.99 
20.52 
28.84 

1910 

1911-...- 

1912 

.34,  427 
>  13,  459 

1913 

541,116 

1914(2June30lh).. 

1,203 

48,  278,  430 

51,  387, 846 

27.11 

13,  930,  102 

28.86 

5fi3.  288 

1  In   red. 

2  Investment  is  shown  as  of  June  30,  1914,  as  Dec.  31,  1914,  includes  some  construction 
A/c  "  X  "  military  business.     The  sales  and  proflts  cover  the  entire  year  1914. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3281 

Net  profit  as  above 13,930,102 

Plus  profit  oil  B.  &  A.  &c 563,  28S 


14,  493,  390 
Less: 

Amt.    depreciation    clmrged    to  goodwill   by    International    Co. 

entry,  April  1906 322,  719 

Inventory  adj.  International  Co.  March  '05 387,036 

Assuming  abandonment  of  permanent  investment,  6-30-1914 —     1,  514,  588 

Santa  Cruz  plant  charged  ofe  Feby.  1912 139, 169 

Less  deprec 67,  952 

71, 217 

Net  (25.27%  return  on  investment) 12,197,830 

Add:  profit  year  1915: 

Army  &  Navy 428,802 

Bethlehem,  etc ^ 331,401 

760, 208 


12,  958,  083 
Average  investment,  93.93^  per  lb. 


Exhibit  No.  1153 

EXCEIRPTS   FBOM    SPECIAL    MEETING    OF   THE    WAR   INDUSTRIES    BOARD    HELD    MONDAY, 
DECEMBER   3,    1917,   AT   3  :  00    P.    M.,   ROOM    54,   O.    N.   D.    BUILDING 

Present :  The  Secretary  of  War ;  the  War  Industries  Board :  Mr.  Willard, 
chairman;  Mr.  Baruch,  Mr.  Brookings,  Admiral  Fletcher,  Judge  Lovett,  Mr. 
Bingham,  secretary ;  also  Major  General  William  Crozier. 

Special  meetmg — Increase  powder  facilities. — The  Secretary  of  War  informed 
the  Board  that  the  du  Pont  Company  had  refused  to  undertake  the  building 
of  the  proposed  powder  plant  on  any  other  terms  than  those  contained  in  their 
last  proposition,  except  for  a  minor  change  which  was  considered  to  have 
little  or  no  effect  on  the  favorableness  of  the  proposetl  arrangement.  The 
opinions  of  the  various  members  of  the  Board  were  expressed  as  to  the  advisa- 
bility of  giving  the  building  of  such  a  plant  into  other  hands. 

The  Secretary  of  War  having  taken  these  opinions  under  consideration,  the 
meeting  adjourned  at  4  :  35  p.m. 

(Signed)     H.  P.  Bingham,  Secretary. 


Exhibit  No.  1154 

[Copied  from  file  no.  P-4755-711E] 

E.  I.  DU  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company, 
Wilmington,  Delaware,  December  10,  1911. 
Honorable  Newton  D.  Baker, 

Secretary  of  War,  Washington,  D.  C. 
Dear  Sir  :  The  directors  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  have  been 
confident  in  the  preeminent  ability  of  their  company  to  construct  and  operate 
the  proposed  Government  factories  for  the  manufacture  of  one  million  pounds 
of  military  smokeless  powder  per  day.  This  opinion  was  justified  in  the 
negotiations  that  led  to  the  order  of  October  25th,  1917,  received  from  General 
Crozier.  Your  temporary  withdrawal  of  this  order  gave  hope  that  means 
might  be  found  by  which  we  would  be  relieved  of  the  burden  of  this  work 
and  the  Government  enabled  to  obtain  satisfactory  service  at  less  cost  but  the 
fact  that  six  weeks  of  valuable  time  has  already  been  lost  is  a  clear  indication 
that  better  and  cheaper  service  is  not  obtainable. 


3282  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Yesterday  General  Crozier  requested  a  conference  at  Wilmingtfni.  Prior  to 
his  coming  tlie  executive  committee  of  our  company,  Mr.  E.  C.  Buckner  and 
myself  determined  to  ask  liiui  whether  there  is  a  general  agreement  at  Wash- 
ington that  our  company's  services  are  necessary  to  the  Government  and 
whether  we  are  right  in  supposing  that  the  question  of  compensation  is  alone 
responsible  for  the  delay.  If  so,  we  determined  to  agree  to  submit  to  arbitra- 
tion the  disputed  question  in  order  that  nothing  might  further  interfere  with 
this  important  work.  General  Crozier  has  assured  us  that  he  believes  it  neces- 
sary to  call  upon  us  for  assistance  and  that  there  is  no  doubt  in  any  mind  that 
our  company  should  undertake  the  work  if  proper  compensation  can  be  deter- 
mined. I  therefore  have  requested  him  to  make  an  appointment  lor  the  pur- 
pose of  presenting  to  you  the  attached  proposition. 
Very  truly  yours, 

(Sgd.)     E.  I.  Du  Pont  de  Nemoubs  &  Compant. 

(Sgd.)     Pierre.  S.  du  Pont, 

Presidotf. 

[Copied  from   file  no.   r-4755-711E] 

PROPOSITION  OF  E.  I.  DU  PONT  DE  NEMOURS  &  CO.  TO  THE  SECRETARY  OF  WAR 

Whereas  it  appears  necessary  for  the  welfare  of  the  United  States  that  E.  I. 
du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  should  undertake  the  work  of  construction 
and  operation  of  the  proposed  Government  factories  for  the  manufacture  of 
military  smokeless  powder  at  rate  of  1  million  pounds  per  day, 

And,  whereas  this  work  which  was  ordered  begun  by  order  of  General  Crozier 
under  date  of  October  25th.  1917,  has  been  discontinued  by  telegraphic  order 
of  the  Secretary  of  War  dated  October  31st,  1917. 

And,  whereas  the  Government  desires  continuation  of  this  work  if  the 
question  of  compensation  under  the  order  can  be  satisfactorily  arranged. 

Now,  therefore,  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  proposes  to  accept  the 
order  of  October  25th,  with  proper  allowance  for  time  already  lost,  to- 
gether with  the  modifications  thereof  suggested  in  the  proposed  form  of  orders 
dated  November  19th,  1017,  changed  to  provide  fnr  capacity  of  1.000000  pounds 
per  day,  and  letter  of  December  1st  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company 
addressed  to  the  Board  of  War  Industries  in  reply  to  their  letter  of  November 
26th.  1917  (copy  of  these  documents  are  attached  hereto).  The  letter  of 
December  1st  is  to  be  further  modified  so  that  the  maximum  compensation  shall 
be  ir%  on  cost  of  manufacture  plus  10%  on  cost  of  construction;  from  the 
total  shall  be  subtracted  the  QV3%  to  cover  cost  of  overhead  expense  referred 
to  in  paragraph  6,  subdivision  (&)  of  suggested  order  <if  November  19th,  1917. 
All  of  these  modifications  are  embodied  in  the  suggested  form  of  order  dated 
December  11th,  1917,  copy  of  which  is  also  attached  hereto. 

In  accepting  this  order  we  agree  that  all  questions  of  compensation  to  our 
company  for  service  to  be  rendered  both  in  construction  and  operation  of  the 
factories  shall  be  referred  to  a  board  of  arbitration  of  three  members,  one  to 
be  appointed  by  the  Secretary  of  War  and  one  by  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  & 
Company ;  the  third  to  be  appointed  by  the  two  arbitrators  so  chosen ;  no 
arbitrator  to  be  an  officer  of,  or  person  receiving  compensation  from  the  United 
States  Government,  or  an  officer,  employee,  or  stockholder  of  E.  I.  du  Pont 
de  Nemours  &  Company.  These  arbitrators  shall  have  placed  before  them  this 
letter  and  the  documents  attached  hereto  and  shall  determine  the  comiiensatiou 
due  our  company  in  view  of  the  services  to  be  rendered  and  in  view  of  the 
compensation  provided  in  similar  contracts  now  being  entered  into  by  the  de- 
partments of  the  United  States  Government.  The  board  of  arbitration  will  be 
furnished  such  additional  data  as  may  be  needed  for  reaching  a  conclusion. 
Their  decision  shall  state  the  compensation  to  be  provided  by  paragraphs  10, 
11,  13,  and  15  of  the  sugested  form  of  order  dated  December  11th,  1917,  and 
shall  be  final  and  binding  on  both  parties. 

E.  I.  DU  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co., 
(S)     PimBE  S.  J)V  Pont,  President. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3283 

Exhibit  No.  1155 

Dbcbmbek.  11,   1917. 
Messrs.  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company,  Wilmington,  Delaware. 

Gentlemen  :  1.  I  hereby  direct  you  to  proceed  as  soon  as  possililo  with  the 
construction  for  the  Government  of  complete  plants  for  the  manufacture  of 
smokeless  powder  for  cannon  in  units  of  a  100,000  pounds  rated  (h^ily  ca- 
pacity, the  total  capacity  of  which  will  be  1,0011,000  pounds  of  powder  per 
day  of  twenty-four  (24)  hours. 

2.  The  proportion  of  water-dried  and  air-dried  smokeless  powder  to  be 
manufactured  in  the  plants  will  be  determined  before  the  execution  of  the 
formal  contract  covering  this  order.  The  plants  will  be'  located  on  sites  se- 
lected by  you  with  my  approval,  and  will  include  sulphuric  and  nitric  acid 
manufacturing  and  recovering  plants,  cotton  purification,  gun  cotton,  water 
supply,  waste  disposition,  p<nver.  lines  of  communication  and  transmission, 
storehouses,  freight  yards  with  standard-gage  tracks,  plants  for  the  manu- 
facture of  ethei-  and  diphenylamine,  houses  for  employees  to  an  extent  which 
shall  be  proportionate  to  the  housing  facilities  provided  at  existing  plants  of 
your  company,  administrative  Iniildings,  laboratories,  shops,  box  factories,  etc. 

3.  You  will  act  as  the  agent  for  the  Government  in  selecting  sites  for  the 
plants  and  in  effecting  the  use  and  occupancy  or  acquirement  thereof  by  the 
Government  and  in  providing  all  necessary  labor  and  materials  for  the  com- 
plete construction  of  the  plants  with  the  greatest  dispatch.  As  the  agent  of 
the  Govenimeiit,  you  ai'e  authorized  to  do  all  acts  necessary  or  convenient 
in  and  about  the  construction  of  the  plants,  and  as  such  agent  you  will  also 
make  contracts  and  inciir  obligations  in  the  name  of  the  Government.  The 
Govei-nment  will  indemnify  you  against  any  and  all  loss  by  accident,  fire, 
flood,  or  explosion,  or  otherwise  arising  or  growing  out  of  the  construction  of 
the  plants. 

4.  In  order  to  expedite  the  construction  of  the  plants  you  will  be  given 
freedom  in  the  exercise  of  your  judgment  as  to  the  preparation  of  the  plans 
and  the  specifications  of  material  and  equipment  to  be  used  in  construction 
and  in  the  arrangement  of  the  plants.  All  plans,  drawings,  and  specifications, 
all  subcontracts  and  all  other  writings  in  any  way  relating  to  the  exercise 
of  the  agency  created  will  be  sul)_iect  to  tlie  inspection  of  the  chief  of  the 
gun  division  of  this  oftice. 

5.  The  Government  will  reserve  the  right  to  furnish  lumlier,  nails,  cement, 
brick,  and  steel  necessary  in  the  construction  of  the  plants,  and  to  the  extent 
that  the  Government  exercises  the  right  it  will  agree  to  make  deliveries  of 
the  materials  of  suitable  quality  at  such  times  and  in  such  quantities  as  the 
bill  of  materials  which  you  will  furnish  provides,  but  the  cost  of  such  ma- 
terials shall  be  fi>r  all  purposes  included  in  the  cost  of  the  plants. 

6.  The  Government  will  pay  directly  or  will  reimbui'se  you  for  all  cost  in- 
curred in  the  construction  of  the  plants. 

ia)  There  shall  be  included  as  a  part  of  the  construction  cost  and  paid  to 
you  a  sum  equal  to  1%%  of  all  disbursements  for  construction  (exclusive  of 
amounts  provided  in  sul)divisions  (n)  and  {h)  of  this  paragraph)  ;  this  fund 
to  be  expended  by  you  at  your  discretion  but  in  general  accord  with  the 
existing  practice  of  your  company,  as  special  comi>ensation  to  the  employees 
engaged  in  the  construction  of  the  plant  and  for  the  purpose  of  securing  the 
completion  and  initial  operation  of  the  plant  at  the  earliest  possible  date. 

{h)  There  shall  also  be  included  as  a  part  of  the  construction  cost  a  sum 
equal  to  6%%  of  all  disbursements  (exclusive  of  amounts  provided  in  sub- 
divisions («)  and  (b)  of  this  paragraph)  which  sum  Is  hereby  agreed  upon 
as  the  cost  of  selecting  and  securing  the  sites,  making  all  necessary  sui"veys, 
supplying  all  plans,  all  engineering  direction  and  supervision  other  than  local 
supervision  at  the  plants,  purchasing  and  expediting  the  delivery  of  all  ma- 
terials and  all  administrative  cost  other  than  local  administration  at  the 
plants,  supervision  other  than  local  supervision  at  the  plants  and  use  of  a 
machine  shop  which  you  are  to  provide  at  your  expense  for  the  manufacture 
of   special   machinery    to   be   charged    to   construction    at   cost. 


3284  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

7.  The  Goverument  will  make  prompt  payments  and,  if  necessary  so  to  do, 
will  attach  a  disbursing  officer  at  the  plants  or  at  the  office  of  your  company. 

8.  It  is  understood  that,  based  on  your  best  judgment  developed  by  past 
experience,  the  first  of  the  units  will  be  completed  and  ready  for  operation 
about  eight  (S)  months  after  the  date  the  land  on  which  such  unit  is  to  be 
constructed  is  acquired,  and  that  additional  units  will  be  completed  at  inter- 
vals of  thirty  (30)  days  thereafter;  and  that  all  units  will  be  completed  within 
eighteen  (18)  months  thereafter. 

9.  Upon  the  completion  of  each  of  the  units  you  will  act  as  the  agent  of  the 
Government  to  operate  each  unit,  and  such  agency  will  continue  for  a  period 
of  eighteen  (18)  months  after  beginning  operation  of  the  first  unit,  unless 
revoked  because  the  need  for  the  output  of  such  plants  has  ceased  to  exist 
or  because  of  willful  misconduct  as  the  agent  of  the  Government. 

As  the  agent  of  the  Government  you  will  be  authorized  to  do  all  acts  neces- 
sary or  convenient  in  and  about  the  operation  of  the  plants  or  any  parts  thereof, 
and  as  such  agent  you  will  also  make  contracts  and  incur  obligations  in  the 
name  of  the  Government.  The  Government  will  indemnify  you  against  any 
and  all  loss  by  accident,  fire,  flood,  or  explosion  or  otherwise  arising  or  growing 
out  of  the  operation  of  the  plants.  No  such  loss  shall  be  charged  to  the  cost 
of  operation,  but  in  lieu  thereof  $0,004  per  pound  will  be  charged  to  the  cost 
of  operation,  which  amount  is  agreed  as  a  proper  charge  to  cover  such  losses. 

10.  The  Government  will  pay  directly  or  reimburse  you  for  all  costs  of  opera- 
tion of  the  plants  and  in  addition  there  will  be  paid  to  you  the  sum  of  BVa^ 
per  pound  for  all  smokeless  powder  delivered  and  accepted,  to  cover  engineer- 
ing direction  and  supervision  of  operation,  other  than  local  supervision  at  the 
plants,  purchasing  and  expediting  the  delivery  of  materials  for  operation,  all 
cost  of  the  administration  of  operation  other  than  the  cost  of  local  administra- 
tion at  the  plant,  possible  bonuses,  and  profit. 

At  the  end  of  each  month  of  operation  the  cost  of  the  water-dried  powder, 
exclusive  of  the  cost  of  boxes  and  amortization  and  depreciation  of  plant  but 
Including  the  cost  of  components  and  the  conversion  thereof,  repairs,  power, 
transportation,  general  works  expense,  works  accidents  (as  provided  in  para- 
graph (9) ),  and  plants  superintendence  and  all  other  proper  items  of  cost  shall 
be  determined,  and  in  the  event  that  such  cost  shall  be  found  to  have  been  less 
than  forty-six  (46)  cents  per  pound  the  Government  will  pay  to  your  company, 
in  addition  to  the  31/2^  per  pound  as  above,  fifty  (50)  percent  of  the  difference 
between  the  amount  by  which  the  actual  cost  is  less  than  the  base  cost  of  forty- 
six  (46)  cents  per  pound.  The  price  of  forty-six  (46)  cents  per  pound  herein- 
before mentioned  shall  be  increased  or  decreased  as  the  cost  of  nitrate  of 
soda  used  in  the  manufacture  is  greater  or  less  than  four  (4)  cents  per  pound, 
on  a  basis  of  using  1.65  pounds  of  nitrate  of  soda  to  manufacture  one  pound 
of  powder. 

Example :  Should  the  cost  of  nitrate  of  soda  used  in  the  manufacture  be 
three  cents  per  pound  instead  of  four  cents  per  pound,  the  above-estimated 
base  cost  of  forty-six  (46)  cents  per  pound  will  be  reduced  by  1.65^  per  pound 
to  44.35^  per  pound.  With  reference  to  air-dried  powder  the  base  cost  on  which 
additions  to  profit  are  computed  will  be  forty-eight  and  one-half  (40%)  cents 
per  pound. 

11.  The  Government  will  i-eserve  to  itself  the  right  to  revoke  and  terminate 
the  agency  to  construct  the  plants  at  any  time.  In  the  event  that  such  right 
is  exercised  within  six  (6)  months  from  the  date  hereof,  the  Government  will 
pay  to  your  company,  in  addition  to  the  cost  of  construction  paid  or  incurred 
to  the  date  of  such  termination  or  revocation,  a  sum  which,  together  with  all 
moneys  theretofore  paid  under  subdivisions  (a)  and  (6)  of  paragraph  6  of  this 
order,  will  equal  $900,000  for  each  month  and  proportionately  for  any  fraction 
of  a  month  during  which  the  agency  has  been  in  operation.  In  the  event  that 
such  right  is  exercised  at  a  date  later  than  six  (6)  months  from  the  date  of 
this  order,  the  Government  will  be  under  no  obligation  to  make  payments  other 
than  those  in  this  letter  elsewhere  provided. 

12.  The  Government  will  reserve  to  itself  the  right  to  reduce  the  output  of 
the  plants  herein  provided  to  be  constructed  and  operated,  in  which  event  the 
terms  and  conditions  herein  set  forth  will  be  applicable. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3285 

13.  If  the  Government  terminates  the  agency  herein  given  after  six  (6) 
months  there  will  be  pnid  you,  in  addition  to  the  sums  paid  under  paragraph  10 
of  this  order,  a  sum  equal  to  six  and  one-half  (6Vij)  percent  of  the  construction 
cost  allowed  in  paragraph  6,  less  the  following  amounts : 

10%  of  tile  sum  due  and  allowed  under  paragraph  ten  (10),  when  the  first 
twenty  million  pounds  of  powder  have  been  made  and  accepted. 

15%  of  the  sum  due  and  allowed  under  paragraphs  ten  (10),  when  the  second 
twenty  million  pounds  of  powder  have  been  made  and  accepted. 

20%  of  the  sum  due  and  allowed  under  paragraph  ten  (10),  when  the  third 
twenty  million  pounds  of  powder  have  been  made  and  accepted. 

25%  of  the  sum  due  and  allowed  under  paragraph  ten  (10)  when  the  fourth 
twenty  million  pounds  of  powder  have  been  made  and  accepted. 

35%  of  the  sum  due  and  allowed  under  paragraph  ten  (10)  when  the  fifth 
twenty  million  pounds  of  powder  have  been  made  and  accepted. 

45%  of  the  sum  due  and  allowed  under  paragraph  ten  (10)  when  the  sixth 
twenty  million  pounds  of  powder  have  been  made  and  accepted. 

55%  of  the  sum  due  and  allowed  under  paragraph  ten  (10')  when  the  seventh 
twenty  million  pounds  of  powder  have  been  made  and  accepted. 

65%  of  the  sum  due  and  allowed  under  paragraph  ten  (10)  when  the  eighth 
twenty  million  pounds  of  powder  have  been  made  and  accepted. 

75%  of  the  sum  due  and  allowed  under  paragraph  ten  (10)  on  powder  made 
and  accepted  thereafter. 

Provided,  however,  that  when  the  total  deductions  computed  in  the  above 
manner  shall  have  equaled  6V2%  of  the  construction  cost  all  obligations  to  pay 
compensation  for  the  services  rendered  in  the  construction  of  the  plants  will  be 
cancelled  and  discharged  and  your  compensation  limited  to  that  for  operation  as 
provided  in  paragraph  10. 

14.  It  is  understood  that  this  order  after  acceptance  by  you,  may  be  assigned  to 
the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  a  Delaware  corporation  of  nominal  capitali- 
zation to  be  organized  solely  for  the  purpose  of  the  construction  and  operation  of 
the  powder  plant  under  this  order. 

The  officers  and  directors  of  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  will  be  as 
follows :  President,  Pierre  S.  du  Pont ;  vice  president,  C.  B.  Landis ;  Irenee  du 
Pont;  H.  F.  Brown;  H.  M.  Pierce,  and  F.  G.  Tallman ;  treasurer,  C.  B.  Holliday; 
and  secretary  Alexis  I.  du  Pont.  Directors :  H.  F.  BroAvn ;  E.  G.  Buckner, 
R.  R.  M.  Carpenter,  F.  L.  Connable,  William  Coyne,  Alexis  I.  du  Pont,  Irenee  du 
Pont,  Lammot  du  Pont,  Pierre  S.  du  Pont,  H.  G.  Haskell,  J.  P.  Laffey,  H.  M. 
Pierce,  J.  J.  Raskob,  and  F.  G.  Tallman. 

15.  It  is  agreed  that  the  maximum  compensation  to  be  paid  E.  I.  du  Ponf  de 
Nemours  &  Company  and/or  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  shall  be  15  percent 
of  the  cost  of  operation  plus  10  percent  of  the  cost  of  construction ;  from  this 
total  shall  be  substracted  the  6%  percent  provided  in  paragraph  6,  subdivi- 
sion (b). 

16.  It  is  also  understood  that  concurrently  with  the  execution  of  the  formal 
contract  with  the  new  company  covering  this?  order,  a  tri-partite  agreement  will 
be  entered  into  liy  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company,  the  du  Pont  Engineer- 
ing Company  and  the  Government  wherein  B.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company 
will  guarantee  to  furnish  to  the  Government  and  to  the  du  Pont  Engineering 
Company  as  and  when  and  to  the  extent  required  in  the  construction  and  opera- 
tion of  the  said  powder  plants. 

(ffi)  the  services  of  the  its  engineering,  purchasing,  operating,  and  other 
special  and  technical  departments; 

(&)  the  right  to  use  all  plans,  drawings  and  specifications,  patents,  processes, 
and  trade  secrets  possessed  by  it ; 

(c)   such  working  capital  as  may  be  needed. 

This    tripartite    agreement    will    continue   during    the    life    of    the    contract 
between  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  and  the  Government  and  will  be 
subject  to  modification  only  with  the  consent  of  the  Government. 
Respectfully, 


The  terms  and  conditions  of  the  foregoing  order  are  accepted  and  agreed  to. 


3286  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Exhibit  No.   1156 

War  Department, 
Office  of  the  Assistant  Secretary, 

Washington,  D.  C,  December  I4,  1934- 
Memorandum  for  the  Director,  Planning  Branch. 

1.  The  records  of  the  War  Credits  Board,  in  the  custody  of  the  Chief  of  Finance, 
show  that  the  following  advances  were  authorized  to  contractors  for  the  various 
services  as  follows: 

Corps  of  Engineers $3,  375.  00 

Coast  Artillery  Corps 34,  000.  00 

Chemical  Warfare  Service 493,  000.  00 

Medical  Department 498.  000.  00 

Quartermaster  Corps 19,  825,  464.  26 

Signal  Corps  (which  included  Air  Corps) 53,  177,  020.  16 

Ordnance  Department 1  174,  460,  855.  96 

2.  In  addition  to  advances  made  by  the  War  Credits  Board,  the  Secretary  of 
War  authorized  the  following  advances: 

Sigjial  Corps $4,  000,  000.  00 

Quartermaster  Corps 17,  700,  400.  00 

Ordnance  Department 84,  645,  452.  72 

3.  The  total  advances  authorized  were: 

Corps  of  Engineers $3,  375.  00 

Chemical  Warfare  Service 493,  000.  00 

Medical  Department 498,  000.  00 

Coast  Artillery  Corps 34,  000.  00 

Quartermaster  Corps 37,  525,  864.  26 

Signal  Corps 57,  177,  020.  16 

Ordnance  Department 259,  106,  308.  68 

E.   M.  Brannon, 
First  Lieut.,  J.  A.  G.  D.  {Inf.). 


Exhibit  No.   1157 

[Copied  from  File  No.  P4755-711E] 

December  12,   1917. 
E.  I.  DU  Pont  de  Nemours  Powder  Co., 

Wilmington,  Delaware 
(For  attention  of  Mr.  Pierre  S.  du  Pont.) 
Gentlemen:  On  the  10th  day  of  December  Mr.  Pierre  S.  du  Pont  and  Mr. 
Buckner  presented  to  me  your  letter  of  that  date  with  regard  to  the  question  of 
manufacturing  smokeless  powder  and  the  creation  of  additional  capacity  there- 
for. Prior  to  December  10th  this  matter  had  been  under  consideration  between 
your  company  and  the  War  Department,  a  full  history  of  our  conferences  and 
correspondence  appearing  in  the  papers,  of  which  both  your  company  and  the 
Government  have  copies. 

After  the  receipt  of  the  letter  from  your  company  definitely  declining  to  accept  a 
proposition  from  the  Government  as  formulated  in  the  suggestion  of  the  War 
Industries  Board  and  presented  by  me  to  your  comj)any,  the  War  Department 
proceeded  to  work  out  a  plan  for  the  direct  creation  of  this  capacity  by  the 
Government  itself.  I  therefore  notified  Mr.  du  Pont  and  Mr.  Buckner  on  Decem- 
ber 10th  that  the  question  would  not  be  reopened,  and  that  the  Government 
would  proceed  directly  in  the  matter.  I  then  assured  Mr.  du  Pont  of  my  great 
appreciation  of  the  generous  wilhngness,  expressed  by  your  company  to  aid  the 
Government  in  its  undertaking,  and  I  shall  be  most  happy  from  time  to  time  to 
call  on  you  for  such  assistance  as  in  the  nature  of  the  case  you  are  most  highly 
qualified  to  render. 

Cordially  yours, 

Secretary  of  Vv^\r. 


iNfjTE— The  six  totals  were  not  listed  separately,  but  the  above  figure  was  determined  by  subtracting 
the  total  advanced  to  the  other  services,  namely,  $74,030,859.42,  from  the  total  advanced  by  the  Board 
of  $24>i,491, 715.38. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3287 

("Exhibit  No.  1158"  appears  in  text  on  p.  3211  ) 


Exhibit  No.   1159 

[Copied  from  File  No.  P-4755-711E] 

(Du  Pont  established  1802) 

E.  I.  DU  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company, 

Executive  Offices, 
Wilmington,  Delaware,  January  11,  191 S. 
Honorable  Newton  D.  Baker, 

Secretary  of  War,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Dear  Sir:  May  I  call  your  attention  to  the  order  of  Major  General  William 
Crozier  dated  October  25tli,  1917,  which  order  is  referred  to  in  your  telegram  of 
October  31st,  1917,  asking  for  a  stay  of  proceedings  until  you  have  had  opportunity 
to  acquaint  yourself  with  all  features  of  the  proposed  contract.  This  order  calls 
for  transactions  estimated  at  $325,000,000,  covering  a  period  of  over  two  years 
and  is  probably  one  of  the  largest  orders  ever  given  by  the  United  States  Govern- 
ment. Cancellation  of  the  order  calls  for  a  payment  of  $900,000  per  month  and 
proportionately  for  days  elapsing  between  the  date  of  order  and  date  of  cancella- 
tion. Whatever  may  be  due  our  company  under  this  provision  of  the  order  we 
make  no  claim  for  payment,  as  relief  from  the  burden  of  the  order  is  worth  much 
to  this  company,  even  under  its  proposed  compensation.  As  we  understand 
that  the  Department  is  ready  to  compensate  us  for  actual  expenditures  to  date 
under  tliis  order,  a  statement  of  this  account  will  be  sent  to  you  in  a  few  days. 

Abrogation  of  the  order  is  not  referred  to  in  your  letter  of  December  12th,  1917, 
nor  in  any  other  correspondence.  We  will  greatly  appreciate  formal  notice  of 
abrogation  as  it  would  seem  fitting  to  so  formally  close  tlie  transactioii. 

May  I  also  call  attention  to  the  enclosed  clipping  from  today's  New  York 
Times.  Erroneous  conclusions  may  be  drawn  from  this  statement.  The  profit 
of  from  twenty  to  forty  million  was  not  obtainable  from  the  ninety-million-dollar 
investment  in  factories,  but  from  the  construction  and  operation  contract  amount- 
ing to  three  hundred  and  twenty-five  millions,  of  which  the  larger  sum  of  fortv 
milHou  dollars  represented  12.3%,  the  smaller,  6.15%  only.  Reference  to  our 
offer  to  limit  profits  to  10%  plus  a  further  maximum  addition  of  5%  based  on 
equal  divisions  of  reduction  of  cost  of  operation  and  the  final  offer  to  arbitrate 
the  (]uestion  of  compensation  would  have  more  fairly  represented  the  final  condi- 
tion of  t!ie  negotiation.  However,  our  company  is  not  disposed  to  enter  into  any 
argument  or  public  discussion  and  we  do  not  ask  correction  of  the  statement 
above-mentioned. 

Very  truly  yours, 

E.  I.  DU  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company. 
(Signed)      Pierre  du  Pont,  President. 


Exhibit  No.  1160 

[Copied  from  file  No,  P-4755-711E] 

January  12,  1918. 
My  Dear  Mr.  du  Pont:   I  have  just  received  your  letter  of  the  11th,  and 
have  referred  it  to  the  Assistant  Secretary,  as  the  powder  matter  is  now  under 
his  immediate  supervision,  and  I  want  him  to  prepare  the  formal  letter  to  which 
3'ou  refer  with  the  papers  in  the  case  before  him. 

I  am  writing  this  only  to  say  that  the  extract  from  the  New  York  Times  which 
you  enclose,  and  upon  which  you  comment  is  not  an  adequate  representation  of 
my  testimony  on  the  subject  before  the  Senate  committee.  I  have  not  a  copy 
of  the  testimony;  but  it  will  be  out  shortly,  and  you  will  then  see  that  I  have 
dealt  with  the  utmost  candor  and  fairness  with  the  negotiations  between  your 
company  and  the  War  Department. 
Cordially  yours, 

(Signed)     Newton  D.  Baker, 

Secretary  of  War. 
Mr.  Pierre  I.  du  Pont, 

E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co., 

Wilmington,  Del. 


3288  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Exhibit  No.  1161 

[Copied  from  file  No.  P-4755-7nE] 

E.  I.  DTJ  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co., 

Executive  Offices, 
Du  Pont,  established  1802  Wilmington,  Del.,  January  16,  1918. 

Honorable  Newton  D.  Baker, 

Secretary  of  War,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Dear  Sir:  Mr.  D.  C.  Jackling  has  requested  me  to  negotiate  with  him  con- 
cerning work  to  be  done  in  connection  with  the  proposed  military  powder  factories 
of  the  United  States  Government.  I  hesitate  to  enter  these  negotiations  without 
your  consent  lest  such  intrusion  might  be  misunderstood  or  prove  objectionable, 
if  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  can  be  of  further  service  to  the  United 
States  Government  I  should  like  to  be  assured  of  Mr.  Jackling's  authority  and 
of  your  consent  to  negotiations. 

I  wish  to  thank  you  for  your  letter  in  regard  to  the  incorrect  reports  of  the 
newspapers  concerning  the  powder  situation  and  look  forward  to  receipt  of  the 
full  statement.  While  I  felt  sure  that  the  brief  paragraph  of  the  New  York  Times 
could  not  represent  all  that  was  said  on  this  subject,  it  seemed  fitting  to  call 
attention  to  the  inaccuracy  in  view  of  the  cordial  relations  that  have  existed 
between  us. 

Respectfully  yours, 

(Signed)     Pierre  du  Pont,  President. 

12 


Exhibit  No.  1162 
[Copied  from  file  no.  P.4755-711E.] 

January  19,  1918. 
My  Dear  Du  Pont:     Mr.   D.  C.  Jackling  has  full  authority  to  discuss  and 
negotiate  with  you  with  regard  to  any  work  in  connection  with  the  proposed 
military  powder  factories  of  the  Government. 
Cordially  yours, 

(Signed)      Newton  D.  Baker, 

Secretary  of  War. 
Mr.  Pierre  I.  du  Pont, 

President  E.  I.  du  Pont  De  Nemours  &  Co., 

Wilmington,  Del. 


Exhibit  No.  1163 

excerpts  from  meeting  of  the   war  industries  board  held   FRIDAY,  JANUARY 
25,  1918,  AT  11:45  A.  M.,  IN  ROOM  54,  C.  N.   D.  BUILDING 

Present:  Judge  Lovett,  acting  chairman;  Mr.  Baruch,  Mr.  Brookings,  Mr. 
Frayne,  General  Pierce,  Mr.  Ingels,  acting  secretary. 

Chemicals:  Contract  with  du  Pont  Co.  for  design,  construction,  and  operation  of  a 
plant  at  Nashville,  Tenn.,  for  the  production  of  smokeless  powder:  Mr.  Baruch  sub- 
mitted for  the  information  of  the  board  memorandum  of  understanding  between 
Mr.  Jackling,  Mr.  MacGowen,  Major  Mudd  on  behalf  of  the  Government,  and 
Mr.  P.  S.  du  Pont  and  Col.  E.  G.  Buckner  on  behalf  of  the  du  Pont  Co.,  dated 
January  24,  1918,  regarding  the  proposed  arrangement  with  the  du  Point  Co.  for 
the  design,  construction,  and  operation  of  the  above  plant. 

The  meeting  adjourned  at  1:00  p.  m. 

(Signed)     H.  P.  Ingels,  Acting  Secretary. 


Exhibit  No.  1164 
[Copied  from  file  no.  p-4755-71IE.] 

Washington,  Ja7iuary  29,  191S. 
Honorable  The  Secretary  of  War, 

Washington,  D.  C. 
Honorable  Si  \v.   Under  the  authority  given  to  me  in  your  letter  of  appointment 
dated  December  15,  1917,  empowering  me  to  proceed  with  the  construction  and 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3289 

operation  of  new  Government  powder  plants,  1  have  agreed  upon  the  form  and 
terms  of  a  contract  with  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Cotwhereby  tiiat  company  under- 
takes to  build  and  operate  a  smokeless  powder  plant  near  Nashville,  Tenn.  A 
copy  of  this  proposed  contract  is  hereto  attached  and  I  recjuest  that  you  approve 
the  same  and  direct  its  execution  by  such  contracting  officer  as  you  may  designate. 
Very  respectfully, 

D.  C.  Jackling. 


Exhibit  No.  1165 
Construction  of  Explosives  Plant  Near  Nashville,  Tennessee 

Contract  made  and  concluded  this  29  day  of  January  1918,  by  and  betv^een 
Du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  of  Wilmington,  Delaware,  a  corporation  organized 
under  the  laws  of  the  State  of  Delaware,  represented  by  Pierre  S.  du  Pont,  its 
president,  party  of  the  first  part,  hereinafter  called  "construction  manager",  and 
the  United  States  of  America  by  Brigadier  General  I.  W.  Littell,  Quartermaster 
Corps,  National  Army,  hereinafter  called  "contracting  officer",  acting  bj^ 
authority  of  the  Secretary  of  War,  party  of  the  second  part; 

Whereas  the  Congress  having  declared  by  joint  resolution  approved  April  6th, 
1917,  that  war  exists  between  the  United  States  of  America  and  Germany,  a 
national  emergency  exists  and  the  United  States  urgently  requires  the  immediate 
performance  of  the  work  hereinafter  described  and  it  is  necessary  that  said  work 
shall  be  completed  within  the  shortest  possible  time,  and 

Whereas  it  is  advisable  under  the  disturbed  conditions  which  exist  in  the  con- 
tracting industry  throughout  the  country  for  the  United  States  of  America  to 
depart  from  the  usual  procedure  in  the  matter  of  letting  contracts  and  adopt 
means  that  will  insure  the  most  expeditious  results,  and 

Whereas  the  partj^  of  the  first  part  has  been  requested  by  the  party  of  the  second 
part  to  act  in  the  capacity  of  designing  engineer  and  construction  manager  for 
this  operation,  and 

Whereas  the  construction  manager,  its  officials,  and  employees  have  had  broad 
experience  in  the  designing,  construction,  and  operation  of  smokeless-powder 
plants  and  are  capable  of  managing  the  construction  program  herein  contemplated 
and  are  ready  to  undertake  the  same  upon  the  terms  and  conditions  herein 
provided,  and 

Whereas  D.  C.  Jackling,  of  San  Francisco,  California,  under  authority  given 
him  by  letter  dated  December  15th,  1917,  signed  by  the  Honorable  Newton  D. 
Baker,  Secretary  of  War,  was  appointed  special  director  with  full  power  and  au- 
thority to  represent  the  United  States  of  America  in  the  construction  of  this 
plant  and  hereafter  referred  to  as  special  director.  Now  therefore  this  contract 
witnesseth: 

That,  in  consideration  of  the  promises  and  of  the  payments  to  be  made  as 
hereinafter  provided,  the  construction  manager  hereby  covenants  and  agrees  to 
and  with  the  contracting  officer  as  follows: 

article  I 

The  construction  manager  will  engage  as  the  sole  agent  of  the  United  States  of 
America  in  the  creation,  construction,  and  operation  of  the  plant  hereinbefore 
described,  and  in  consideration  of  the  fee  of  five  hundred  thousand  dollars  to  be 
paid  to  it  as  provided  in  article  7  hereof  in  sections  a,  b,  c,  and  d,  agrees  to  procure 
from  the  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  and  Company — 

1.  The  disposal  for  the  purposes  of  the  party  of  the  second  part,  exclusively  for 
the  Nashville  plant,  of  the  said  company's  experiences,  records,  and  plans  apper- 
taining to  the  production  of  smokeless  powder  of  the  kinds  and  quantities  herein 
referred  to. 

2.  If  it  becomes  necessary  to  employ  supervisors,  foremen,  or  laborers  at 
existing  plants  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  and  Company,  or  at  the  several 
sections  of  the  Nashville  plant,  for  the  purpose  of  instruction  in  order  to  provide 
skilled  employees  for  the  sections  of  the  Nashville  plant  as  they  are  ready  for 
operation,  it  is  agreed  that  the  United  States  of  America  shall  pay  for  the  cost 
of  said  instruction,  but  such  cost  shall  not  be  included  as  one  of  the  proper  items 
of  cost  herein  referred  to  in  the  determination  of  cost  or  powder  on  which  the 
construction  manager's  compensation  is  to  be  based. 

3.  The  construction  manager  will  secure  from  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  and 
Company,  of  Wilmington,  Delaware,  the  services  of  its  engineering  department, 
and  the  full  cooperation  of  the  officers  and  organization  of  said  company  in  and 


3290  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

in  connection  with  the  designing  of,  and  preparation  of  plans,  drawings,  and 
specifications  for,  the  said  plant  and  its  subsequent  operation. 

ARTICLE  II 

The  construction  manager,  acting  under  the  direction  of  D.  C.  Jackling, 
special  director,  aforesaid,  will  immediately  upon  the  signing  of  this  contract, 
proceed  with  a  survey  of  the  site  and  general  lay-out  of  the  plant,  design,  and 
preparation  of  all  plans,  drawings,  and  specifications  necessary  for  the  construc- 
tion on  a  site  owned  by  the  United  States  of  Ainerica,  at  or  near  Nashville,  Ten- 
nessee, of  a  complete  plant  for  the  manufacture  of  water-dried  smokeless  cannon 
powder  to  consist  of  five  sections  or  units,  the  aggregate  capacity  of  said  completed 
plant  to  be  approximately  five  hundred  thousand  pounds  of  powder  per  day  of 
twenty-four  hours,  the  said  plant  to  include  sulphuric  and  nitric  acid  manufactur- 
ing and  recovery  plants,  caustic  soda  manufacturing  and  recovery  plants,  cotton 
purification,  guncotton,  water  supply,  waste  disposition,  power,  lines  of  communi- 
cation and  transmission,  storehouses,  freight  yards  with  standard  gauge  tracks, 
plants  for  the  manufacture  of  ether,  diphenylamine,  and  rectification  of  alcohol, 
houses  for  employees,  administrative  buildings,  laboratories,  shops,  box  factories, 
hospitals,  commissaries  and  stores,  and  such  other  things  as  may  be  necessary 
for  a  coinplete  plant  to  manufacture  five  hundred  thousand  pounds  of  smokeless 
powder  per  day  of  twenty-four  hours.  The  foregoing  enumeration  of  work  and 
activities  shall  not  be  deemed  to  be  inclusive  of  all  the  work  required  to  be  done 
hereunder,  and  shall  not  be  construed  to  exclude  the  right  hereunder  of  the 
special  director  to  order  anj^  work  done  not  specifically  herein  mentioned. 

If  the  United  States  of  America  desires  the  manufacture  of  small-arms  smokeless 
rifle  powder  or  air-dried  smokeless  cannon  powder,  the  construction  manager 
must  be,  in  order  to  avoid  delay,  so  notified  in  writing  within  ten  days  after  the 
signing  of  this  contract  what  proportion  of  the  aforesaid  capacity  shall  l^e  devoted 
to  small-arms  smokeless  rifle  powder  and  what  proportion  to  air-dried  smokeless 
cannon  powder. 

ARTICLE    III 

The  special  director  may  from  time  to  time  by  written  instructions  issued  to 
the  construction  manager  order  changes  in  drawings  and  specifications,  issue 
additional  instructions  requiring  additional  work,  or  direct  the  omission  of 
work  previously  ordered,  and  the  ])ro\-isions  of  this  contract  shall  apply  to  all 
such  changes,  modifications,  and  additions  v.ith  the  same  effect  as  if  they  were 
embodied  in  the  original  drawings  and  specifications.  The  cost  of  canceling 
contracts  with  respect  to  omitted  work  is  to  be  charged  as  part  of  the  cost  of  the 
plant. 

The  construction  manager  shall  comply  with  all  such  written  instructions  and 
drawings  as  part  of  this  contract.  All  drawings  and  specifications  to  govern 
the  execution  of  the  work  shall  first  have  the  approval  of  the  special  director. 

The  intent  of  this  article  is  to  insure  that  the  design  and  construction  of  the 
plant  is  in  accordance  with  the  standard  practice  employed  by  the  E.  I.  du  Pont 
de  Nemours  and  Company  in  the  use  of  standard  machines,  types  of  apparatus, 
arrangement,  and  construction  of  same  and  methods  of  operation. 

ARTICLE    IV 

United  States  of  America  shall  bear  the  entire  cost  of  the  designing  and  con- 
struction of  said  plant  and  will  sujjply  all  the  money  necessary  therefor  in  such 
amounts  and  in  such  manner  as  to  allow  the  activities  with  respect  to  the  designing 
and  construction  of  the  plant  to  proceed  without  delay  or  interruption.  To 
make  the  above  eff'ective  a  disbursing  officer  or  officers  shall  be  appointed  by  the 
contracting  officer,  who  shall  be  provided  v  ith  the  necessary  funds  to  meet  all 
payments  as  due  upon  presentation  Vjy  the  constrr.ction  manager  of  bills  approved 
by  the  special  director.  The  responsibility  of  the  disbursing  officer  shall  extend 
only  to  the  ascertainment  that  bills,  vouchers,  or  statements  submitted  for  pay- 
ment have  hecn  properly  certified  as  ajjproved  l^y  the  special  director  or  his  duh* 
authorized  representatives  or  successors. 

ARTICLE    V 

With  the  written  approval  of  the  special  director,  obtained  from  time  to  time, 
the  construction  manager  shall  l)e  authorized  to  do  all  acts  necessary  or  con- 
venient in  and  about  the  construction  of  the  plant  and  every  part  thereof,  including 
the  purchase  and  procurement  of  all  materials  and  labor,  also  including  the 


MUISriTIONS    INDUSTRY  3291 

salaries  and  expenses  of  all  officials  and  employees  of  the  construction  manager 
whose  services  are  devoted  to  work  on  or  in  connection  with  said  plant,  and 
including  also  the  traveling  expenses  of  the  officials  and  employees  of  the  con- 
struction manager  and  of  said  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company,  when 
engaged  upon  work  connected  with  said  plant,  and  as  such  the  construction 
manager  may  make  contracts  and  incur  obligations  in  the  name  and  on  behalf 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  subject  to  the  approval  of  the  special  director. 
In  order  that  the  construction  manager  may  be  enabled  to  secure  the  utmost 
possible  expedition  on  such  work  of  construction,  it  may,  in  its  discretion,  but 
sul)ject  to  the  approval  of  the  special  director,  from  time  to  time  award  reasonable 
cash  bonuses  to  employees  chargeable  to  said  construction,  and  such  bonuses 
shall  be  included  as  a  proper  item  of  cost  in  the  determination  of  the  construction 
manager's  compensation  for  the  construction  aforesaid.  Whenever  it  is  inexpedi- 
ent for  any  portion  of  the  work  of  or  connected  with  said  construction  to  be 
performed  by  the  construction  manager,  it  may,  in  its  discretion,  sublet  such 
portion  of  the  work;  provided,  the  contract  of  subletting  is  submitted  to  and 
approved  by  the  special  director  before  being  entered  into  L\v  the  construction 
manager.  All  payments  recjuired  to  be  made  under  the  purchases  and  procure- 
ments and  subcontracts  above  mentioned  shall  l)e  made  promptly  by  the  United 
States  of  America  through  the  disbursing  officer  herein  provided  for.  It  is 
understood  that  the  construction  manager  in  dealing  with  persons  other  than 
United  States  of  America  shall  make  all  contracts,  purchases  and  other  arrange- 
ments for  the  jjerformance  of  this  contract  in  its  capacity  as  agent  for  the  United 
States  of  America  and  in  its  name  and  without  liability  on  the  part  of  the  construc- 
tion manager  or  special  director  under  any  contracts  or  purchases  so  made. 

ARTICLE    VI 

United  States  of  America  shall  not  be  obligated  to  make  any  expenditures 
relating  to  the  performance  of  this  contract  unless  the  approval  or  ratification 
of  the  special  director,  or  of  the  Secretary  of  War  as  provided  in  article  18, 
shall  have  been  obtained,  and  the  construction  manager  in  the  conduct  of  its 
duties  shall  abide  by  such  directions  of  the  special  director  as  shall  be  given  to 
the  construction  manager  from  tir.e  to  time. 

Pay  rolls  for  labor  and  compensation  for  services  performed  and  expenses 
incurred,  invoices  for  materials,  invoices  for  rental,  contracts  for  construction  of 
plant,  and  payments  thereunder  shall  all  be  submitted  to  the  special  director  for 
approval  or  ratification.  Upon  such  approval  or  ratification  the  disbursing 
officer  shall  promptly  pj-ovide  and  pay  the  amount  required  for  such  pay  rolls, 
expense  accounts,  invoices,  and  contracts.  The  special  director  will  from  time  to 
time  instruct  the  contruction  manager  as  to — 

1.  Method  to  be  followed  in  reporting  costs. 

2.  A  submission  of  statements  thereof,  bills  therefor,  and  all  other  supporting 
papers. 

3.  Submission  of  engineers'  and  accountants'  certificates. 

ARTICLE    VII 

As  full  compensation  for  the  services  of  the  construction  manager  herein 
provided  to  be  employed  for  the  designing  and  erecting  of  said  plant,  the  United 
States  of  America  shall  in  addition  to  tlie  costs  of  the  work,  labor,  and  materials 
herein  provided  for  make  payment  to  the  construction  manager  as  follows: 

(a)  At  such  time  as  in  the  judgment  of  the  special  director  twentj^-five  percent 
of  the  work  to  be  done  in  designing  and  preparing  the  plans  for  "the  plant" 
shall  have  been  completed,  the  United  States  of  America  shall  pay  to  the  construc- 
tion manager  the  sum  of  one  hundred  and  twenty-five  thousand  dollars. 

(6)  At  such  time  as  in  the  judgment  of  the  special  director  fifty  percent  of  the 
work  to  be  done  in  designing  and  prepraing  the  plans  for  said  plant  shall  have 
been  completed,  the  United  Sttaes  of  America  shall  pay  to  the  construction 
manager  the  further  sum  of  one  hundred  and  twenty-five  thousand  dollars. 

(c)  At  such  time  as  in  the  judgment  of  the  special  director  seventy-five  per- 
cent of  the  work  of  designing  and  preparing  the  plans  for  said  plant  shall  have 
been  completed,  the  United  States  of  America  shall  pay  to  the  construction 
manager  an  additional  sum  of  one  hundred  and  twenty-five  thousand  dollars. 

(d)  Upon  the  substantial  completion  of  the  general  plans  a  final  sum  of  one 
hundred  and  twenty-five  thousand  dollars  shall  be  paid  by  the  United  States  of 
America  to  the  construction  manager. 

83876— 35— PT  14 9 


3292  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

This  fee  of  five  hundred  thousand  dollars  shall  in  any  event  be  fully  paid 
within  four  months  of  the  date  of  this  contract  and  shall  not  be  included  in 
computing  the  cost  of  the  construction  of  the  plant  for  the  purpose  of  fixing  the 
amount  of  additional  compensation  under  paragraph  (/)  hereof. 

(e)  In  the  event  the  work  is  discontinued  the  foregoing  fees  mentioned  in  sub- 
divisions a,  b,  c,  and  d  hereof,  amounting  to  five  hundred  thousand  dollars  shall 
be  paid. 

(/)  In  addition  to  the  foregoing  fees  the  construction  manager  shall  be  paid  as 
compensation  for  designing  and  constructing  the  plant  as  herein  provided  three 
percent  on  the  total  cost  of  the  construction  of  the  plant,  the  same  to  be  paid 
proportionately  and  monthly  as  the  work  progresses.  Such  monthly  payments 
shall  be  based  upon  estimates  made  by  the  construction  manager  and  approved 
by  the  special  director.  The  total  compensation  to  be  paid  under  this  paragraph 
naarked  "/"  shall  be  limited  to  a  maximum  of  one  million  five  hundred  thousand 
dollars. 

(</)  The  construction  manager  will  make  no  charge  to  the  United  States  of 
America  for  the  services  of  its  officers,  directors,  or  officials  as  such  and  only  for 
such  officers,  officials,  and  employees  as  are  actually  employed  on  the  work 
connected  with  this  plant,  and  then  only  for  such  time  as  is  so  employed;  the 
salaries-,  however,  of  all  other  employees  of  the  construction  manager  who  may 
be  actually  employed  upon  this  operation  as  and  when  so  employed,  as  well  as 
the  necessary  traveling  expenses  and  extraordinary  or  excess  living  expenses 
which  constitute  a  part  of  their  regular  compensation  under  the  terms  of  their 
employment,  shall  be  paid  by  the  United  States  of  America. 

ARTICLE    VIII 

The  special  director  shall  have  the  right  to  terminate  this  contract  as  to  all  its 
provisions  because  the  need  for  the  plant  or  the  output  of  the  plant  has  ceased 
to  exist  or  because  of  the  willful  violation  of  this  contract  by  the  construction 
manager  as  agent  for  the  United  States  of  America.  If  the  work  is  discontinued 
for  either  of  the  reasons  above  named,  the  amount  to  be  paid  for  the  services  of 
the  construction  manager  shall  be  determined  as  follows: 

(a)  Should  the  contract  be  terminated  or  the  work  discontinued  before  the 
completion  of  the  construction  of  the  plant,  there  shall  be  paid  to  the  construction 
manager  the  sum  of  five  hundred  thousand  dollars  mentioned  herein  in  article 
VII,  paragraphs  A,  B,  C,  D,  plus  the  percentage  for  construction  mentioned  in 
article  VII,  paragraph  F,  which  shall  have  accrued  at  the  time  of  such  termination 
or  discontinuance. 

(6)  Should  this  contract  be  terminated  after  the  commencement  of  the  opera- 
tion of  the  plant,  either  in  part  or  in  whole,  in  the  manufacture  of  powder,  and 
within  the  six  months'  period  or  before  ninety  million  pounds  of  finished  powder 
have  been  produced,  the  compensation  of  the  construction  manager  for  the  opera- 
tion of  the  plant  will  be  limited  to  the  payments  due  and  applying  on  the  finished 
powder  produced  to  the  date  of  such  termination  plus  a  further  payment  on 
unfinished  powder  or  materials  actuall}^  in  process  of  manufacture,  which  addi- 
tional pajanents  shall  be  based  upon  the  proportion  which  the  cost  of  such  unfin- 
ished i^owder  or  materials  bears  to  the  total  cost  of  an  equivalent  amount  of 
finished  powder  that  such  unfinished  materials  would  have  produced. 

(c)  The  construction  manager  hereby  agrees  to  accept  in  the  event  of  such 
termination  of  this  contract  or  such  discontinuance  of  the  work,  the  afore- 
mentioned payments  in  full  liquidation  and  settlement  of  all  claims  of  any  sort 
or  nature  hereunder  and  agrees  upon  the  receipt  of  the  same  to  release  and  in- 
demnify the  United  States  of  America,  the  contracting  officer  and  the  special 
director  hereunder  from  all  claims  of  any  nature  whatsoever  on  the  part  of  the 
construction  manager. 

ARTICLE    IX 

The  United  States  of  America  shall  hold  harmless  the  construction  manager 
from  any  and  all  loss  by  accident,  fire,  flood,  or  otherwise,  arising  or  growing 
out  of  the  construction  or  operation  of  said  plant,  but  for  the  purpose  of  deter- 
mining cost  of  production  no  loss  due  to  accident,  flood,  fire,  or  explosion  arising 
or  growing  out  of  the  operation  of  the  plant  shall  be  charged  to  the  cost  of  opera- 
tion, but  in  lieu  thereof  $0,004  per  pound  of  powder  shall  be  charged  to  the  cost 
of  operation,  which  amount  is  agreed  upon  as  a  i)roper  charge  to  cover  such  losses. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3293 

ARTICLE    X 

(a)  The  United  States  of  America  will  pay  all  costs  of  whatsoever  nature 
incurred  in  the  operation  of  the  plant  and  will  in  addition  pay  to  the  construction 
manager  for  operating  said  plant  the  sum  of  Sji  cents  per  pound  for  all  smokeless 
powder  delivered  and  accepted. 

(b)  At  the  end  of  each  month  of  operation  the  cost  of  powder,  exclusive  of  the 
cost  of  boxes  and  amortization  and  depreciation  of  plant  and  expense  of  main- 
taining guards  at  the  plant,  but  including  the  cost  of  labor,  ingredients,  and  the 
conversion  thereof,  repairs,  power,  transportation,  general  works  expense,  works 
accidents  as  provided  in  article  IX  hereof,  plant  superintendence,  salaries,  and 
expenses  of  all  officials  and  employees  of  the  construction  manager  whose  ser- 
vices are  devoted  to  work  on  or  in  connection  with  the  operation  of  said  plant, 
and  also  the  traveling  expenses  of  the  officials  and  employees  of  the  construction 
manager  and  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  when  engaged  upon  work  con- 
nected with  the  operation  of  said  plant,  and  all  other  proper  items  of  cost,  admin- 
istrative or  otherwise,  shall  be  determined,  and  in  the  event  that  such  cost  shall 
be  found  to  have  been  less  than  44^  cents  per  pound  the  United  States  of  America 
will  pay  the  construction  manager,  in  addition  to  the  3H  cents  per  pound  as 
above,  50  percent  of  the  amount  by  which  the  actual  cost  is  less  than  the  base 
cost  of  44^2  cents  per  pound.  The  base  cost  of  44y2  cents  per  pound  herein- 
above mentioned  shall  be  increased  or  decreased  as  the  cost  of  nitrate  of  soda, 
linters,  shavings,  alcohol,  and  sulphur  vised  in  the  manufacture  are  greater  or  less 
than  the  prices  per  pound  specified  in  this  paragraph  on  the  basis  of  the  actual 
amounts  of  each  of  these  five  articles  entering  into  the  manufacture  of  one  pound 
of  powder.     The  prices  to  apply  f.  o.  b.  Nashville,  Tennessee,  are  as  follows: 

Nitrate  of  soda,  4.1175?i  per  pound. 
Linters,  5.25(4  per  pound. 
Shavings,  4.22^  per  pound. 
Alcohol,  12.459^  per  pound. 
Sulphur,  1.35450  per  pound. 

All  other  ingredients  (being  of  small  importance)  will  be  charged  at  actual 
cost. 

Example  as  to  nitrate  of  soda:  Should  the  cost  of  nitrate  of  soda  used  in  the 
manufacture  be  3.1175  cents  per  pound,  instead  of  4.1175  cents  per  pound,  and 
the  quantity  required  be  1.65  pounds  nitrate  of  soda  per  pound  of  powder  pro- 
duced therefor,  then  the  above  base  cost  of  44)^  cents  per  pound  will  be  reduced 
by  1.65  cents  per  pound  to  42.85  cents  per  pound. 

It  is  understood  that  the  base  price  of  44J4  cents  per  pound  refers  to  water- 
dried  smokeless  cannon  powder. 

(c)  In  the  event  of  the  United  States  of  America  requiring  the  manufacture  at 
this  plant  of  air-dried  powder  or  small-arms  powder,  the  construction  manager 
will  be  paid  as  compensation  for  the  manufacture  of  such  powder  the  same  num- 
ber of  cents  per  pound  as  is  paid  concurrently  for  the  manufacture  of  water-dried 
smokeless  cannon  powder,  under  the  terms  of  this  agreement.  In  the  event, 
however,  during  any  month  no  water-dried  cannon  powder  is  manufactured,  the 
cost  of  the  air-dried  cannon  powder  shall  be  used  in  the  calculation,  and  the  base 
cost  shall  be  45J^  cents  per  pound. 

(fZ)  In  determining  the  cost  of  powder  at  such  time  as  the  construction  and 
operation  are  in  progress  concurrently,  the  cost  of  each  department,  i.  e.,  con- 
struction and  operation,  is  to  be  determined  on  the  basis  of  actual  expenditures 
incurred  in  each.  The  expense  of  those  employed  on  both  construction  and 
operation  is  to  be  divided  in  direct  proportion  as  their  time  is  so  employed. 

(e)  It  is  understood  and  agreed  that  the  construction  manager  shall  operate 
the  i^lant  for  the  equivalent  of  six  months  at  its  full  capacity;  that  is  to  say,  that 
the  plant,  consisting  of  five  sections,  when  and  as  completed  will  be  operated  to 
the  equivalent  of  thirty  section  months.  It  is  estimated  that  the  full  capacity 
of  each  of  the  five  sections  of  the  plant  will  be  three  million  pounds  of  powder 
per  month.  And  that  accordingly  thirty  section  months'  operation  will  produce 
ninety  million  pounds  of  powder;  but  if,  for  any  reason  other  than  that  of  the 
termination  of  this  contract  as  provided  in  article  8  hereof,  the  operation  of  the 
plant  shall  result  in  a  production  of  less  than  ninety  million  pounds  of  powder 
during  the  period  specified,  then  the  construction  manager  shall  continue  opera- 
tion until  ninety  million  pounds  of  powder  have  been  produced. 

On  water-dried  powder  the  period  of  six  months  referred  to  herein  shall  com- 
mence for  each  section  when  the  first  powder  therefrom  is  packed. 


3294  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

On  air-dried  powder  the  period  of  six  months  shall  commence  for  each  section 
when  the  first  powder  therefrom  is  put  into  the  dryhouse. 

If,  during  the  operating  period  of  six  months  specified  herein,  there  shall  be 
produced  more  than  ninety  million  pounds  of  powder,  the  construction  manager 
shall  be  paid  upon  the  full  amount  so  produced  during  such  period. 

At  the  expiration  of  the  period  of  six  months  specified  herein,  payment  shall 
be  made  to  the  construction  manager  for  all  finished  powder  and  all  other  pov.'der, 
whether  air  or  water-dried,  that  is  in  process  of  drying  or  in  a  further  state  of 
comiyietion. 

If,  at  the  expiration  of  the  period  of  six  months  specified  herein,  the  powder  that 
has  been  accepted  and  the  air-dried  powder  which  is  in  process  of  drying,  and 
which  for  purposes  of  final  compensation  is  considered  as  finished  product, 
aggregate  ninty  million  pounds  or  more,  the  operation  of  the  plant  under  the  super- 
vision of  the  construction  manager  shall  cease,  unless  the  United  States  of  America 
has  exercised  its  option  as  expressed  in  paragraph  "F"  of  this  article,  but  if  less 
than  ninty  million  pounds  of  powder,  as  specified  in  this  paragraph  have  been 
produced,  the  construction  manager  is  to  continue  operations  of  the  plant  until 
ninty  million  pounds  of  powder  have  been  produced  as  outlined  herein. 

( /)  The  United  States  of  America  shall  have  the  option  of  requiring  the  con- 
struction manager  to  continue  operating  the  full  plant  upon  the  same  terms  and 
compensation  as  provided  in  paragraphs  a,  b,  and  c  of  this  article  for  successive 
and  additional  periods  of  six  months  each  upon  giving  notice  to  the  construction 
manager  three  months  prior  to  the  termination  of  the  operating  period  herein 
provided  or  of  any  extension  of  such  operating  period. 

ARTICLE    XI 

The  construction  manager  will  use  its  best  endeavors  to  construct  the  plant  as 
quickly  as  possible,  and  estimates  that  the  first  section  of  the  plant  can  be  ready 
for  operation  in  about  eight  months  after  the  signing  of  this  contract,  and  that 
the  additional  sections  may  be  ready  for  operation,  one  each  six  weeks  thereafter, 
so  that  the  entire  plant  may  be  ready  for  operation  in  about  fourteen  months; 
it  being  understood,  however,  that  the  foregoing  is  merely  an  estimate  and  is  in 
no  sense  a  guarantee  by  the  construction  manager,  the  date  of  completion  de- 
pending upon  the  full  cooperation  of  the  United  States  of  America  in  obtaining 
the  construction  materials  and  equipment  and  the  necessary  labor.  In  making 
this  estimate  no  allowance  has  been  made  for  time  necessary  for  securing  the 
approval  of  contracts  and  drawings. 

ARTICLE    XII 

The  special  director  at  all  times  shall  have  access  to  the  work  and  operations 
provided  for  under  this  contract  for  inspection  thereof,  and  at  all  times  shall  have 
access  to  all  the  books,  records,  correspondence,  instructions,  plans  and  drawings, 
receipts  and  vouchers,  and  memoranda  of  every  description  of  the  construction 
manager,  and  of  all  contractors  upon  the  work  appertaining  to  this  contract,  and 
the  construction  manager  shall  at  the  completion  or  cessation  of  the  work  under 
this  agreement  will  leave  in  the  possession  of  the  special  director  all  books,  records, 
and  other  papers  under  its  control  and  herein  mentioned,  but  the  construction 
manager  thereafter  shall  have  access  to  these  records  and  papers. 

ARTICLE    XIII 

As  directed  by  the  United  States  of  America  the  boxes  required  for  packing  the 
powder  to  be  manufactured  hereunder  shall  be  fabricated  by  the  construction 
manager  in  the  box  factories  constructed  in  connection  with  said  plant,  but  the 
cost  of  such  falsrication  shall  not  be  included  in  the  determination  of  cost  of  pow- 
der on  which  the  construction  manager's  compensation  shall  be  based,  nor  shall 
the  construction  manager  be  paid  any  compensation  therefor. 

ARTICLE  XIV 

The  United  States  of  America  shall  arrange  to  remove  the  finished  powder  as 
fast  as  it  is  submitted,  tested,  and  accepted. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3295 


ARTICLE  XV 

The  construction  manager  is  hereby  authorized  to  procure  liability  insurance 
protecting  it  against  loss  due  to  claims  on  the  part  of  employees  or  the  public, 
charging  the  premium  for  such  insurance  as  part  of  the  cost  of  the  work. 

ARTICLE  XVI 

No  Member  of  or  Delegate  to  Congress  or  Resident  Commissioner  is,  or  shall 
be,  admitted  to  any  share  or  part  of  this  contract  or  to  any  benefit  that  may 
arise  therefrom;  but  this  article  shall  not  apply  to  this  contract  as  far  as  it  may 
be  within  the  operation  or  exception  of  section  116  of  an  act  of  Congress  approved 
March  4,  1909  (35  Stats.  1109). 

ARTICLE  XVII 

No  person  or  persons  shall  be  employed  in  the  performance  of  this  contract 
who  are  undergoing  sentences  of  imprisonment  of  hard  labor  which  have  been 
imposed  by  the  courts  of  the  several  States,  Territories;,  or  municipalities  having 
criminal  jurisdiction. 

ARTICLE  XVIII 

If  any  doubts  or  disputes  shall  arise  as  to  the  meaning  of  anything  in  this  con- 
tract, they  shall  be  referred  to  the  special  director  for  determination.  If,  however, 
the  construction  manager  shall  feel  aggrieved  at  any  decision  of  the  special  director 
upon  such  reference  it  shall  have  the  right  to  submit  the  same  to  the  Secretary  of 
War,  whose  decision  shall  be  final. 

ARTICLE  XIX 

Notice  under  this  contract  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  suflEiciently  given  to 
and  received  by  construction  manager  when  mailed  in  a  sealed,  postpaid  wrapper, 
addressed  to  Du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  at  the  plant  site. 

ARTICLE  XX 

The  construction  manager  shall  furnish  to  the  United  States  of  America  within 
ten  days  after  the  execution  and  delivery  of  this  agreement  a  performance  bond 
in  the  sum  of  two  hundred  and  fifty  thousand  dollars,  conditioned  for  the  full 
and  faithful  performance  of  this  contract.  Such  bond  shall  be  in  the  form  and 
with  sureties  satisfactory  to  contracting  officer.  Premium  of  such  bond  to  be 
charged  to  cost  of  the  work. 

ARTICLE  XXI 

If  necessitated  by  lack  of  existing  appropriations  of  public  funds,  applicable 
to  this  agreement,  the  United  States  of  America  shall  have  tlie  right  to  make 
and  execute  and  the  construction  manager  shall  thereupon  execute  a  new  contract 
under  the  same  terms  and  conditions  as  herein  provided. 

ARTICLE  XXII 

It  is  imderstood  and  agreed  that  the  parties  hereto  hereby  release  the  said 
special  director,  D.  C.  Jackling,  personally  of  and  from  any  and  all  claims  of  any 
name  and  nature  arising  out  of  the  execution,  carrying  on  or  termination  of  this 
contract  for  any  reason  or  by  reason  of  any  act  or  omission  on  his  part. 

ARTICLE  XXIII 

This  contract  shall  bind  and  enure  to  the  benefit  of  construction  manager  and 
its  successors. 

It  is  understood  and  agreed  that  whenever  the  words  "contracting  officer"  are 
used  herein,  the  same  shall  be  construed  to  include  his  successor  in  office  or  any 
other  person  to  whom  the  duties  of  contracting  officer  may  be  assigned  by  the 
Secretary  of  War,  and  any  dulj'  appointed  representative  of  the  contracting 
officer,  and  wherever,  with  tiie  exception  of  articles  7  and  18  of  this  agreement, 


3296 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


the  words  "special  director"  are  used  herein,  the  same  shall  be  construed  to 
include  his  duly  authorized  representatives  or  successors. 

Dti  Pont  Engineering  Company, 
By  (s)      Pierre  S.  dxjPont,  Presiderd. 


Attest: 


Approved  by — 
Approved  by — 

Witness: 


(s)     Alexis  I.  duPont,  Secretary. 

United  States  of  America, 
By  (s)     I.  W.  Littell,  Contracting  Officer, 

Brigadier  General,  Quartermaster  Corps, 

National  Army. 
Evan  Shelby. 
James  H.  Dangler. 


(Sgd.) 


(s)   Newton  Baker, 

Secretary  of  War. 

(s)  D.  C.  Jackling, 

Special  Director. 

(s)   Irving  E.  Burdick. 


Exhibit  No.  1166 


[One  number  of  this  paper  bears  revenue  stamps 
of  the  value  of  $25.00,  the  said  stamps  having 
been  properly  cancelled.] 


[The  rate  of  premium  on  this  bond  is  $10.00  per 
thousand;  total  amount  of  premium  charged  is 
$2,500.00.] 


bond  no.  291 

Know  all  men  by  these  presents,  that  we,  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  a 
corporation  organized  and  existing  under  the  laws  of  Delaware,  as  principal,  and 
Delaware  Surety  Company,  a  corporation  existing  under  the  laws  of  the  State  of 
Delaware,  as  surety,  are  held  and  firmly  bound  unto  the  United  States  of  America, 
in  the  penal  sum  of  Two  Hundred  and  Fifty  Thousand  Dollars  ($250,000),  to 
the  payment  of  which  sum,  well  and  truly  to  be  made,  we  bind  ourselves,  and  our 
successors,  jointly  and  severally,  firmly  by  these  presents. 

The  condition  of  this  obligation  is  such,  that  whereas  the  above-bounden 
Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  has  on  the  29th  day  of  January  1918,  entered  into 

a  contract  with  the  United  States  of  America,  represented  by 

to  act  as  construction  manager  for  the  United  States  of  America  in  and  about  the 
designing,  constiuction,  and  operation  of  a  plant  at  or  near  Nashville,  Tennessee, 
for  the  manufacture  of  smokeless  powder. 

Now,  therefore,  if  the  above-bounden  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  and 
its  successors,  shall  and  will,  in  all  respects,  duly  and  fully  observe  and  perform 
all  and  singular  the  covenants,  conditions,  and  agreements  in  and  by  said  contract 
agreed  and  covenanted  by  said  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  to  be  observed  and 
performed  according  to  the  true  intent  and  meaning  of  the  said  contract,  and  as 
well  during  any  period  of  extension  of  said  contract  that  may  be  granted  or  during 
any  period  when  the  time  limit  may  be  waived  on  the  part  of  the  United  States 
of  America  as  during  the  original  term  of  the  same,  then  the  above  obligation 
shall  be  void  and  of  no  effect;  otherwise  to  remain  in  full  force  and  virtue. 

In  witness  whereof  the  parties  hereto  have  executed  this  instrument  vinder 
their  seals  this  29th  day  of  January  1918  (the  name  and  corporate  seal  of  said 
principal  being  hereto  affixed  and  these  presents  duly  signed  by  its  vice  president 
duly  authorized  so  to  do) ;  and  the  name  and  corporate  seal  of  said  surety  being 
hereto  affixed  and  these  presents  duly  signed  by  its  president  i:)ursuant  to  resolu- 
tion of  its  board  of  directors,  passed  on  tiie  12th  day  of  August  1915,  a  copy  of  the 
record  of  which  is  hereto  attached. 

Du  Pont  Engineering  Company, 
By  H.  M.  Pierce,  Vice  president. 

Attest: 

Alexis  I.  du  Pont,  Secretary. 
Delaware  Surety  Company, 
B}'  J.  P.  Laffey,  President. 

Attest: 

W.  r.  Raskob,  Secretary. 


MUNITIOTsTS    INDUSTRY  3297 

Exhibit  No.  1167 

[Copied  from  File, No.  P-4755-711E.    P400.13-2712J 

Procurement  Division, 
Office  of  the  Chief  of  Ordnance,  6th  and  B  Sts.  NW., 

Washington,  D.  C,  March  23,  1918. 
From:   Colonel  McRoberts,  Chief  of  Procurement  Division. 
To:   General  Wheeler,  Acting  Chief  of  Ordnance. 
Subject:   Contract  with  Du  Pont  Eng.  Co. 

1.  I  transmit  herewith  for  your  approval,  draft  of  contract  between  the  United 
States  Government  and  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Co.,  for  construction  of  powder 
plant  at  Nashville,  Tenn.,  and  its  operation  for  an  average  period  of  six  months 
from  the  time  each  unit  is  constructed. 

2.  The  contract  calls  for  an  advance  to  the  contractor,  which,  under  the  law, 
can  be  only  granted  upon  the  direct  approval  of  the  Secretary  of  War,  or  his 
constructive  approval  through  the  action  of  the  War  Credits  Board. 

3.  It  is  suggested  that  the  contract,  if  approved  by  you,  be  forwarded  to  the 
Secretary  of  War  for  approval  and  returned  to  this  Division  for  execution. 

Samuel  McRoberts, 
Colonel,  Ordnance  N.  A. 
End. 
draft  of  contract. 


Exhibit  No.   1168 

[Copied  from  File  No.  00  313.5-374] 

Contract  Made  by  the  Chief  of  Ordnance  with  Du  Pont  Engineering 
Company,  of  Wilmington,  Delaware,  for  a  Smokeless-powder  Plant 
and  for  the  Operation  Thereof,  Dated  March  23,  1918 

Total  amount  of  contract,  $ 

Execution  completed 

(Date  of  final  signature) 
Copy  sent  to  returns  office.  Department  of  the  Interior 


War  Department. 

Office  of  the  Chief  of  Ordnance. 

[Washington,  Government  Printing  OflSce,  1918] 

This  contract,  made  this  23d  day  of  March  1918,  by  and  between  Du  Pont 
Engineering  Company,  a  corporation  organized  under  the  laws  of  the  State  of 
Delaware  (hereinafter  called  the  "contractor"),  party  of  the  first  part,  and  the 
United  States  of  America,  by  Samuel  McRoberts,  colonel.  Ordnance  Depart- 
ment, United  States  National  Army  (hereinafter  called  the  "contracting  officer") 
acting  by  and  under  the  authority  of  the  Chief  of  Ordnance,  United  States  Army, 
and  under  the  direction  of  the  Secretary  of  War,  party  of  the  second  part. 

Witnesseth: 

Whereas  a  state  of  war  exists  between  the  United  States  of  America  and  the 
German  and  Austro-Hungarian  Governments,  constituting  a  national  emergency, 
and  the  United  States  requires  the  immediate  performance  of  the  work  herein- 
after described,  and  it  is  necessary  that  said  work  shall  be  completed  within  the 
shortest  possible  time;  and 

Whereas  the  United  States  entered  into  a  contract  with  the  said  Du  Pont  En- 
gineering Company,  under  date  of  January  29,  1918,  which  contract  was  approved 
by  D.  C.  Jackling,  as  special  director,  for  the  construction,  as  agent  for  the  United 
States,  49971 — 18 — 1,  on  land  owned  by  the  United  States  at  or  near  Nashville, 
Tennessee,  of  a  plant  for  the  manufacture  of  smokeless  powder,  said  plant  to 
consist  of  five  sections  or  units  of  an  aggregate  capacity  of  approximately  500,000 
pounds  per  day  of  24  hours,  and  work  thereon  has  been  commenced;  and 

Whereas  it  has  now  become  necessary  that  a  plant  consisting  of  nine  sections  or 
units  shall  be  constructed,  with  an  aggregate  capacity  of  900,000  pounds  of 
smokeless  powder  per  day  of  24  hours;  and 

Whereas  it  is  desirable  that  a  new  contract  should  be  entered  into  for  the  con- 
struction and  completion  of  the  enlarged  plant,  and  the  operation  thereof,  such 
new  contract  to  supercede  and  cancel  (by  mutual  consent  of  the  parties  hereto 
and  in  accordance  with  the  best  interests  of  the  United  States)  said  contract  of 
January  29,  1918: 


3298  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Now,  therefore,  in  consideration  of  the  mutual  agreements  herein  contained, 
the  said  parties  have  agreed,  and  by  these  presents  do  agree  with  each  other,  as 
follows: 

ARTICLE    I 

The  contractor  agrees  to  proceed  with  a  survey  of  the  site  and  general  lay-out 
of  the  plant,  to  design  and  prepare  all  plans,  drawings,  and  specifications,  to  pro- 
cure all  the  necessary  labor  and  materials,  and  to  construct  on  a  site  owned  by  the 
United  States,  at  or  near  Nashville,  Tennessee,  a  complete  plant  for  the  manu- 
facture of  smokeless  powder,  to  consist  of  nine  (9)  sections  or  units,  each  with  a 
capacity  of  one  hundred  thousand  (100,000)  pounds  of  smokeless  powder  per  day 
of  24  hours,  the  aggregate  capacity  of  said  completed  plant  to  be  approximately 
nine  hundred  thousand  (900,000)  pounds  per  day  of  24  hours  (capable  of  being 
operated  27  days  per  month) ,  available  for  the  daily  manufacture  of — 

(1)  700,000  pounds  maximum  of  water-dried  smokeless  powder  for  cannon; 
provided,  however,  that  not  more  than  50,000  pounds  of  water-di-ied  military 
small-arms  smokeless  powder,  in  lieu  of  an  equivalent  amount  of  water-dried 
smokeless  powder  for  cannon,  may  be  produced,  if  required; 

(2)  200,000  pounds  maximum  of  air-dried  smokeless  powder  for  cannon. 
The  said  plant  to  include  sulphuric  and  nitric  acid  manufacturing  and  recovery 

plants,  caustic  soda  manufacturing  and  recovery  plants,  cotton  purification  plants, 
gun-cotton  manufacturing  plants,  water  supply,  waste  disposal,  power,  lines  of 
communication  and  transmission,  storehouses,  plants  for  the  manufacture  of 
ether,  diphenylamine  and  rectification  of  alcohol,  houses  for  employees,  adminis- 
trative buildings,  laboratories,  shops,  box  factories,  hospitals,  commissaries, 
stores,  freight  yards  with  standard-gauge  tracks,  spur  track  of  standard  gauge  of 
approximately  eight  miles  in  length  extending  from  the  existing  railway  line  of  the 
Nashville,  Chattanooga  &  St.  Louis  Railway  Company  to  the  plant  site,  and  such 
other  things  as  may  be  necessary  for  a  complete  plant  of  the  capacity  aforesaid. 

The  plant  for  the  manufacture  of  diphenj'lamine,  above  referred  to,  will  have 
aia  excess  capacity  sufficient  to  supply  an  adequate  quantity  of  diphenylamine  for 
the  operation  of  the  smokeless-powder  plant  now  being  constructed  by  the  United 
States  at  or  near  Charleston,  West  Virginia,  at  its  present  capacity  of  625,000 
pounds  of  smokeless  powder  per  day  of  24  houis. 

It  is  estimated  that  the  total  cost  of  the  work  aforesaid  will  be  approximately 
seventy-five  million  ($75,000,000)  dollars. 

If,  owing  to  the  location,  construction,  or  operation  of  said  plant,  it  shall  become 
necessary  to  remove,  relocate,  or  extend  any  water  main  through  which  the  city 
of  Nashville,  Tennessee,  is  supplied  with  water,  the  contractor  is  authorized  to 
incur  the  necessary  costs  and  expenses  in  connection  therewith,  and  the  United 
States  shall  promptly  reimburse  the  contractor  therefor.  It  is  understood  that 
no  part  of  the  cost  of  such  work  is  included  in  the  above  estimate  of  $75,000,000. 

ARTICLE  II 

The  contractor  is  hereby  authorized  to  do  all  things  necessary  or  convenient  in 
and  about  the  construction  of  the  plant,  including  the  purchase  and  procurement 
of  all  materials  and  labor  necessary  therefor,  except  that  the  United  States  shall 
furnish  the  requisite  amount  of  platinum,  estimated  at  approximately  13,000 
ounces,  to  be  paid  for  by  the  contractor  and  charged  to  the  cost  of  construction. 
In  order  that  the  contractor  may  expedite  the  work  of  construction,  it  may  in 
its  discretion,  from  time  to  time,  pay  extra  compensation  for  materials  or  services, 
subject,  however,  to  the  approval  of  the  contracting  officer,  which  extra  compen- 
sation shall  be  charged  to  the  cost  of  construction.  Whenever  it  is  inexpedient  for 
any  -portion  of  the  construction  work  to  he  performed  by  the  contractor,  it  may,  in  its 
discretion,  sublet  such  portion  of  the  work,  upon  the  most  advantageous  terms 
obtainable  consistent  with  the  best  interests  of  the  United  States.  All  such  sub- 
contracts to  be  subject  to  cancellation  and  termination  upon  the  same  conditions 
as  those  governing  the  cancellation  and  termination  of  this  contract. 

The  United  States  shall  reimburse  the  contractor  for  all  costs  and  expenses  of 
every  character  and  description,  incurred  or  made  in  connection  with  the  con- 
struction and  equipment  of  the  plant,  or  any  part  thereof,  including  the  pro  rata 
share  properly  attril)utable  to  the  construction  work  under  this  contract  (a)  of 
the  expense  of  maintaining  the  contractor's  offices  at  Wilmington,  Delaware,  or 
elsewhere,  and  (b)  of  the  salaries  and  traveling  expenses  of  all  officials  and  em- 
ployees of  the  contractor  and  of  E.  I.  DuPont  de  Nemours  &  Company. 

In  order  that  the  work  of  construction  may  proceed  with  the  utmost  promptness 
and  dispatch,  the  contractor  shall,  from  time  to  time,  make  the  expenditures  and 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3299 

pay  the  costs  aforesaid,  and  the  United  States,  upon  presentation  of  satisfactory 
evidence  of  such  expenditures  and  payments,  shall  promptly  reimburse  the  con- 
tractor therefor. 

Payments  and  reimbursements  shall  be  made  to  the  contractor  by  the  United 
States,  on  account  of  said  construction  work,  as  follows: 

(a)  In  consideration  of  the  fact  that  the  contractor  is  undertaking  the  con- 
struction of  said  plant  without  compensation  for  its  services  beyond  the  payment 
oi  $1.  as  hereinafter  provided,  it  is  agreed  that  the  United  States  will,  as  far  as 
possible,  relieve  the  contractor  of  any  necessity  of  utilizing  its  own  funds  in  the 
prosecution  of  the  work,  and  to  that  end,  upon  the  signing  of  this  contract  the 
United  States  shall  advance  to  the  contractor,  without  payment  of  interest 
thereon  by  the  contractor,  the  sum  of  eighteen  million  seven  hundred  and  fifty 
thousand  ($18,750,000)  dollars  to  be  absorbed  or  returned  as  in  this  article 
provided. 

Any  interest  that  may  be  received  by  the  contractor  on  the  moneys  advanced 
on  the  construction  work  shall  belong  to  the  United  States  and  be  credited  to  the 
cost  of  construction.  The  contractor  will  deposit  the  sum  so  advanced  in  a 
separate  bank  account  and  at  all  times  keep  said  sum  distinct  and  separate  from 
its  own  funds.  It  will  use  its  best  efforts  to  obtain  from  the  depository  or  deposi- 
tories the  highest  rate  of  interest  obtainable  on  said  balance  or  balances. 

(b)  Upon  presentation  of  satisfactory  evidence  showing  the  costs  and  expendi- 
tures incurred  or  made  in  connection  with  said  construction  work,  the  United 
States  shall  promptly  pay  to  the  contractor  amounts  equal  to  such  costs  and 
expenditures,  which  payments  shall  be  in  addition  to  the  advance  payment 
mentioned  in  paragraph  (a)  of  this  article. 

(c)  Whenever  seventy-five  (75)  per  cent  of  the  total  estimated  cost  of  the 
plant  has  been  paid  to  the  contractor,  in  addition  to  the  advance  payment 
mentioned  jsaragraph  (a)  of  this  article  then  no  additional  payment  on  account  of 
said  construction  work  shall  be  made  to  the  contractor  by  the  United  States  until 
said  advance  payment  of  $18,750,000  is  expended;  provided,  however,  that  if  the 
total  cost  thereof  shall  be  in  excess  of  the  amounts  paid  to  the  contractor,  includ- 
ing said  advance  payment,  then  the  United  States  shall,  upon  presentation  of 
satisfactory  evidence,  reimburse  the  contractor  to  the  extent  of  such  excess  cost, 
and  if  upon  the  completion  of  the  plant  there  shall  remain  due  the  United  States 
from  the  contractor  any  unused  sums  theretofore  advanced  by  the  United  States 
in  respect  of  the  construction  work  aforesaid,  the  same  shall  be  promptly  returned 
to  the  United  States. 

The  contractor  shall  be  paid,  in  addition  to  reimbursement  for  the  total  cost 
of  the  construction  of  the  plant,  the  sum  of  one  (1)  dollar,  and  no  more,  as  its 
profit  for  designing,  supervising,  and  constructing  the  plant.  Any  sums  heretofore 
paid  the  contractor  as  compensation  under  the  provisions  of  the  said  contract 
between  the  United  States  and  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  under  date  of 
January  29,  1918,  shall  be  credited  by  the  contractor  to  the  advance  payment  on 
account  of  construction,  as  herein  provided,  and  be  subject  to  the  same  conditions 
and  disposition  as  herein  provided  for  the  said  advance  payment. 

ARTICLE    III 

The  contractor  shall  use  its  best  endeavors  to  construct  the  plant  as  cjuickly 
as  possible,  and  estimates  that  the  first  section  will  be  ready  for  the  manufacture 
of  powder  on  or  about  August  15,  1918,  and  that  the  additional  sections  will  be 
ready  for  the  manufacture  of  powder  one  each  thirty  days  thereafter,  so  that  the 
entire  plant  may  be  ready  for  the  manufacture  of  powcler  on  or  about  April  15, 
1919.  It  is  understood,  however,  that  the  foregoing  is  merely  an  estimate  and 
in  no  sense  a  guaranty  by  the  contractor,  the  date  of  completion  depending  in 
part  upon  the  full  cooperation  of  the  United  States  in  obtaining  the  necessary 
construction  materials,  eciuipment,  and  labor. 

ARTICLE  IV 

(a)  As  each  section  is  completed  the  contractor  shall  forthwith  proceed  to 
operate  it  and  shall  do  all  things  necessary  or  convenient  in  and  about  the  opera- 
tion of  the  plant,  or  any  part  thereof,  including  the  purchase  and  procurement  of 
all  necessary  materials  and  labor  therefor.  The  contractor  shall  not,  except 
with  the  written  consent  of  the  contracting  officer,  purchase  raw  materials  for  the 
manufacture  of  powder  in  excess  of  the  amounts  rec}uired  for  the  complete  ful- 
fillment of  this  contract.  The  United  States  shall  bear  all  costs  and  expenditures 
of  every  character  and  description  incurred  or  made  in  connection  with  the 
operation  of  the  plant,  or  any  part  thereof,  including  the  cost  of  labor,  materials, 


3300  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

and  their  conversion,  repairs,  power,  transportation,  general  works  expense, 
works  accidents  as  provided  in  article  XIV  hereof,  plant  superintendence, 
maintenance  of  guards,  and  also  the  pro  rata  share  properly  attributable  to  the 
operation  of  the  plant,  or  any  part  thereof,  (1)  of  the  cost  and  expense  of  main- 
taining the  contractor's  office  at  Wilmington,  Delaware,  or  elsewhere;  and  (2) 
of  the  salaries  and  traveling  expenses  of  all  officials  and  employees  of  the  contrac- 
tor and  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  and  Company. 

The  costs  and  expenditures  determined  as  above,  exclusive,  however,  of  (1) 
the  cost  of  placing  finished  powder  in  storehouses,  (2)  the  cost  of  boxes,  and  (3) 
the  expense  of  maintaining  guards  at  the  plant,  shall  be  used  in  calculating  the 
"actual  cost"  of  powder,  which  actual  cost  shall  be  ascertained  on  or  before  the 
last  day  of  exch  month  for  the  preceding  month.  Amortization  and  depreciation 
of  plant  shall  not  be  considered  in  any  way  under  this  contract. 

(b)  In  determining  the  actual  cost  of  powder  while  construction  and  operation 
are  in  progress  concurrently,  the  actual  cost  pertaining  to  each  is  to  be  determined 
on  the  basis  of  the  actual  expense  incurred  in  each.  Labor  expense  incurred  in 
construction  and  operation  is  to  be  prorated  in  accordance  with  the  time  devoted 
to  each. 

(c)  In  addition  to  reimbursement  by  the  United  States  for  all  costs  and  expen- 
ditures outlined  in  this  article,  as  aforesaid,  the  contractor  shall  be  compensated 
by  the  United  States  for  the  operation  of  the  plant,  as  follows: 

The  United  States  shall  pay  to  the  contractor  three  and  one-half  (3)^)  cents 
per  pound  for  each  and  every  pound  of  powder  delivered  and  accepted  vmder  this 
contract,  and,  in  addition  thereto,  one-half  the  difference,  if  any,  between  the 
price  per  pound  to  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  paragraphs 
(d)  and  (e)  of  this  article,  and  the  actual  cost  per  pound,  as  ascertained  under 
paragraph  (a)  of  this  article,  where  such  actual  cost  is  less  than  the  price  so 
determined. 

(d)  The  base  prices  hereinafter  specified  are  predicated  upon  the  prices  per 
pound,  given  below,  f.  o.  b.  Nashville,  Tennessee,  of  the  five  component  materials 
named: 

Nitrate  of  soda 4.11750  per  pound. 

Linters 5.25(4         " 

Shavings 4.22(4         "       " 

Alcohol 12.459^       "       " 

Sulphur 1.35450     "       " 

It  is  the  intention  of  the  parties  hereto  that  the  contractor  shall  not  benefit 
or  lose  by  any  decrease  or  increase  in  the  prices  of  any  of  said  five  raw  materials 
from  the  prices  named  in  this  paragraph.  If  the  cost  of  said  raw  materials,  or 
any  of  them,  shall  so  change  as  to  decrease  or  increase  the  actual  cost  of  the 
powder,  as  determined  under  paragraph  (a)  of  article  IV  hereof,  then  the  base 
prices  hereinafter  specified  shall  be  decreased  or  increased  accordingly. 

All  materials  for  construction  or  operation  upon  which  prices  have  been  fixed 
by  the  United  States  shall  be  purchased  by  the  contractor  at  the  prices  so  fixed, 
and  where  the  price  of  any  of  the  raw  materials  named  in  the  above  schedule  has 
not  been  fixed  by  the  Government,  they  shall  not  be  purchased  by  the  contractor 
at  prices  more  than  20  percent  higher  than  those  specified  above,  except  with 
the  approval  of  the  contracting  officer. 

(e)  The  base  prices  for  the  several  grades  of  powder  to  be  manufactured  here- 
under shall  be  as  follows: 

(1)  For  water-dried  powder  for  cannon  of  a  web  thickness  of  0.060  of  an  inch 
or  less,  the  base  price  shall  be  44:%^  per  pound. 

Illustration  of  the  change  in  cost  of  raw  materials:  Should  the  cost  of  nitrate  of 
soda  used  in  the  manufacture  of  powder  be  3.11750  per  pound  instead  of  4.11750 
per  pound,  and  the  cjuantity  required  be  1.65  pounds  of  nitrate  of  soda  per  pound 
of  powder  produced  therefrom,  then  the  above  base  price  of  44)40  per  pound 
would  be  reduced  by  1.650  per  pound  to  42.850  per  pound. 

(2)  For  water-dried  powder  for  cannon  of  a  web  thickness  greater  than  0.060 
of  an  inch,  the  base  price  shall  be  45}^^  per  pound. 

(3)  For  water-dried  "regular"  military  small-arms  powder,  the  base  price  shaU 
be  52)^0  per  povmd. 

(4)  For  water-dried  "improved"  military  small-arms  powder,  the  base  price 
shall  be  56}40  per  pound. 

(5)  For  air-dried  powder  for  cannon,  the  base  price  shall  be  45}^0  per  pound. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3301 

ARTICLE    V 

(a)  The  United  States  shall  advance  and  pay  to  the  contractor  thirteen  (13) 
cents  per  pound  on  the  total  estimated  production  of  145,800,000  pounds  of 
powder.  The  total  of  such  advance  payments  will  be  eighteen  million  nine 
hundred  and  fifty-four  thousand  ($18,954,000)  dollars,  to  be  made  as  follows: 

On  Mav  15,  1918 $6,  318,000 

On  September  15,  1918 6,  318,  000 

On  December  15,  1918 6,  318,  000 

The  contractor  shall  not  be  required  to  pay  interest  on  the  sums  so  advanced, 
and  any  interest  that  may  be  received  by  the  contractor  on  the  money  advanced 
shall  be  credited  to  the  Government  as  money  advanced.  Said  advances  shall 
be  secured  as  and  when  made  by  bonds  or  other  security  satisfactory  to  the 
contracting  officer. 

(b)  As  and  when  each  lot  of  50,000  pounds  or  more  of  powder  is  placed  in 
dry  house,  the  United  States  shall  pay  to  the  contractor  twenty-two  (22)  cents 
per  pound  in  addition  to  the  advance  payment  of  thirteen  (13)  cents  per  pound 
provided  in  paragraph  (a)  of  this  article. 

(c)  As  and  when  any  lot  of  powder  has  been  accepted  and  delivered,  bills 
therefor  shall  be  presented  to  the  United  States  by  the  contractor,  in  which  the 
United  States  shall  be  charged  with: 

(1)  The  actual  cost  per  pound  of  powder  as  ascertained  under  paragraph  (a) 
of  article  IV  hereof; 

(2)  Three  and  one-half  (3^)  cents  per  pound  for  each  and  every  pound  of 
powder,  as  fixed  in  paragraph  (c)  of  article  IV  hereof; 

(3)  One-half  of  the  difference,  if  any,  between  the  actual  cost  per  pound  of 
powder,  as  ascertained  under  paragraph  (a)  of  article  IV  hereof,  and  the  price 
per  pound  of  powder,  as  determined  under  paragraphs  (d)  and  (e)  of  article;  and 
the  United  States  shall  be  credit  with; 

(4)  The  amounts  per  pound  of  powder  theretofore  paid  to  the  contractor  by 
the  United  States  under  paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of  this  article. 

Upon  presentation  of  satisfactory  evidence  of  the  correctness  of  such  bills,  the 
United  States  shall  promptly  pay  the  balance  to  the  contractor. 

ARTICLE    VI 

The  contractor  shall  operate  the  sections  of  the  plant,  as  and  when  severally 
completed,  until  such  times  as  the  aggregate  operation  of  the  completed  sections 
shall  be  equal  to  the  operation  of  one  section  for  fifty-four  (54)  consecutive 
months.  It  is  estimated  that  the  fvill  capacity  of  each  section  will  be  approxi- 
mately 2,700,000  pounds  of  powder  per  month,  and  that  the  operation  of  one 
section  for  fifty-four  (54)  consecutive  months  will  produce  approximately 
145,800,000  pounds  of  powder.  Said  estimate,  however,  shall  not  be  con- 
sidered as  a  limitation  of  the  amount  of  powder  to  be  produced.  If  there  shall 
be  produced  more  than  145,800,000  pounds,  the  contractor  shall  be  paid  for  all 
powder  in  excess  of  said  amount  upon  the  same  terms  and  conditions  as  apply 
to  said  amount  of  145,800,000  pounds. 

In  the  case  of  water-dried  povv^der  the  period  of  operation  shall  begin  for  each 
section  when  the  first  lot  of  50,000  pounds  or  more  of  powder  therefrom  is  packed. 
In  the  case  of  air-dried  powder  the  period  of  operation  shall  begin  for  each  section 
when  the  first  lot  of  50,000  pounds  or  more  of  powder  therefrom  is  placed  in  the 
dry  house. 

If,  after  operating  the  plant,  or  any  part  thereof,  to  an  extent  equivalent  to  the 
operation  of  one  section  for  fifty-four  (54)  consecutive  months,  the  amount  of 
powder  produced  shall  be  145,800,000  pounds  or  more,  then  the  contractor  shall 
cease  operating  the  plant,  unless  the  United  States  shall  exercise  the  option  re- 
ferred to  in  article  VII  hereof.  If,  after  so  operating  the  plant,  the  amount  of 
powder  produced  shall  be  less  than  145,800,000  pounds,  then  the  contractor  shall 
continue  to  operate  the  plant  until  said  amount  shall  have  been  produced. 

When  the  operation  of  the  plant  shall  cease,  or  upon  termination  or  cancelation 
of  this  contract  under  article  XV,  the  United  States  shall  reimburse  the  contrac- 
tor for  all  costs  and  expenses  of  every  character  and  description  incurred  or  made 
in,  or  connected  with,  the  construction,  equipment,  or  operation  of  the  plant,  or 
any  part  thereof,  including  the  cost  of  all  labor,  freight,  and  all  apparatus  and 
materials  purchased,  whether  delivered  or  undelivered,  in  connection  with  the 
construction  and  equipment  of  the  plant  or  the  operation  or  contemplated  opera- 
tion thereof;  all  obligations  of  the  contractor  incurred  hereunder,  outstanding  at 


3302  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

the  date  of  such  cessation  or  termination  or  which  may  thereafter  arise,  shall  be 
assumed  by  the  United  States  and  the  United  States  shall  save  harmless  the  con- 
tractor in  respect  of  any  liability  whatsoever  in  connection  therewith.  At  the 
option  of  the  United  States,  the  contractor  shall  assign  or  transfer  to  the  United 
States,  or  its  nominee,  all  contracts  then  outstanding  entered  into  by  the  contrac- 
tor hereunder. 

Should  this  contract  cease  or  be  terminated  after  the  manufacture  of  powder 
has  begun,  the  contractor  shall  be  paid  by  the  United  States  in  addition  to  all 
costs  and  expenses  incurred  to  the  date  of  such  cessation  or  termination,  the  sums 
provided  in  paragraphs  (c),  (d),  and  (e)  of  article  IV  hereof,  for  all  finished  powder 
produced  to  the  date  of  such  termination,  and  also  for  all  other  powder,  whether 
air  or  water  dried,  that  is  in  process  of  drying  or  further  state  of  completion. 
If  there  shall  remain  due  the  United  States  from  the  contractor  any  sum  thereto- 
fore advanced  by  the  United  States,  after  all  reimbursements  and  payments  out- 
lined in  this  article  have  been  made,  such  sums  shall  be  promptly  returned  by  the 
contractor  to  the  United  States. 

ARTICLE    VII 

When  the  plant,  or  any  part  thereof,  shall  have  been  operated  to  an  extent 
equivalent  to  the  operation  of  one  section  for  fifty-four  (54)  consecutive  months 
and  145,800,000  pounds  or  more  of  powder  have  been  produced,  the  United 
States,  upon  notice  to  the  contractor  (given  at  least  three  months  prior  to  the 
time  when  the  plant  will  have  been  operated  to  such  extent)  shall  have  the  option 
from  time  to  time  of  requiring  the  contractor  to  continue  to  operate  the  plant 
for  additional  periods  of  at  least  three  months  each,  upon  the  same  terms  and 
conditions  as  those  provided  in  article  IV  and  V  hereof. 

ARTICLE    VIII 

Powder  for  cannon  shall  be  manufactured  in  accordance  with  the  provisions 
of  part  II  (manufacture,  inspection,  and  test)  of  Pamphlet  No.  450,  as  last 
revised,  entitled  "Instructions  to  Bidders  and  Specifications  Governing  the  Manu- 
facture, Test,  and  Inspection  of  Smokeless  Powder  for  Cannon,"  and  "regular" 
militarj^  small-arms  powder  shall  be  manufactured  in  accordance  with  the  pro- 
visions of  part  III  (special  specifications  and  tests)  of  Pamphlet  No.  451,  as  last 
revised,  entitled  "Instructions  to  Bidders  and  Specifications  Governing  the 
Manufacture,  Test  and  Inspection  of  Smokeless  Powder  for  Small  Arms",  issued 
by  the  Ordnance  Department,  United  States  Army.  Both  of  said  parts  of  said 
pamphlets  are  hereby  made  a  part  of  this  contract  with  like  effect  as  if  herein  set 
out  in  full. 

The  contracting  officer  may  from  time  to  time  make  changes  in  the  specifica- 
tions governing  the  manufacture  of  smokeless  powder,  provided  he  shall  give  the 
contractor  due  and  timely  notice  of  such  changes.  If  such  changes  require  a  sub- 
stantial amount  of  additional  work,  labor,  or  materials,  a  fair  addition  shall  be 
made  to  the  pertinent  base  price  or  prices  specified  in  paragraph  (e)  of  article  IV 
hereof,  but  if  such  changes  involve  a  substantially  smaller  amount  of  work,  labor, 
or  materials,  a  fair  deduction  shall  be  made  therefrom,  all  as  shall  be  determined 
by  the  contracting  officer.  No  claim  for  addition  or  deduction  on  account  of  any 
such  change  shall  be  made  or  allowed  unless  the  same  has  been  ordered  in  writing 
by  the  contracting  officer. 

The  United  States  shall  advise  the  contractor  as  to  the  granulations  of  powder 
to  be  manufactured,  as  follows: 

(a)  In  the  case  of  guns  for  which  the  contractor  has  previously  manufactured 
satisfactory  powder,  at  least  sixty  days'  notice  shall  be  given  prior  to  the  manu- 
facture of  powder: 

(b)  In  other  cases,  ample  notice  and  opportunity  shall  be  given  to  enable  the 
contractor  to  make  a  satisfactory  granulation  test  before  beginning  manufacture. 

ARTICLE    IX 

The  contractor  shall  keep  complete  records  as  to  all  construction  and  operating 
expenses,  all  of  which  records  shall  at  all  times  be  open  to  the  inspection  of  the 
United  States  or  its  duly  authorized  representatives.  The  United  States  may 
examine  all  work  as  it  progresses  and  shall  audit  all  accounts,  but  in  such  a  manner 
as  not  to  interfere  with  the  contractor  proceeding  with  the  construction  and  opera- 
tion in  any  manner  and  by  any  means  that  in  its  judgment  will  best  produce  the 
desired  results  under  this  contract. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3303 


ARTICLE    X 


To  facilitate  prompt  payments  to  the  contractor,  the  United  States  shall  detail 
paymasters  at  the  plant  and  at  the  contractor's  home  office.  Any  payments  by 
the  United  States  shall  be  subject  to  correction  for  errors,  if  any. 

ARTICLE    XI 

The  title  to  all  parts  of  the  plant  and  to  all  materials,  including  powder,  shall 
vest  in  the  United  States  simultaneously  with  any  payment  on  account  thereof 
by  the  United  States. 

ARTICLE    XII 

The  contractor  shall  fabricate  in  the  box  factories  connected  with  the  plant 
all  boxes  required  for  packing  powder.  The  United  States  shall  remove  from 
the  plant  site  the  finished  powder  as  fast  as  it  is  submitted,  tested,  and  accepted, 
it  being  understood  that  the  contractor  has  not  made  any  provision  for  store- 
houses in  v/hich  to  store  powder  after  it  has  been  accepted  by  the  United  States. 
If  the  United  States  requires  storage  facilities  for  finished  powder,  the  contractor 
shall  erect  storehouses  for  such  purposes  on  the  plant  site,  if  there  shall  be  ade- 
quate space  thereon,  and  if  not,  then  upon  land  immediately  adjoining  the  plant 
site,  if  available.  The  United  States  shall,  exclusive  of  any  profit,  reimburse 
the  contractor  for  all  costs  and  expenses  incurred  or  made  in  connection  with 
any  of  the  work  described  in  this  article. 

Delivery  of  the  powder  shall  be  made,  as  may  from  time  to  time  be  directed 
by  the  contracting  officer,  either  f.  o.  b.  cars  at  the  point  of  manufacture  or  in 
storehouses  erected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  this  article.  All  powder 
so  delivered  shall  thereafter  be  in  the  custody  of  the  United  States. 

ARTICLE    XIII 

The  contractor  is  authorized  to  procure  liability  insurance  protecting  it  against 
ny  and  all  loss  due  to  claims  on  the  part  of  employees  or  the  public,  and  to  charge 
1  premiums  therefor  as  part  of  the  cost  of  construction  and  operation. 

ARTICLE    XIV 

The  contractor  is  not  required  to  place  any  fire  or  other  insurance  in  respect  of 
any  work  or  materials  involved  in  this  contract.  The  United  States  shall  hold 
and  save  harmless  the  contractor  from  all  loss  by  accident,  fire,  flood,  explosion, 
or  otherwise,  arising  or  growing  out  of  the  construction  or  operation  of  the  plant. 

For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  cost  of  production,  no  loss  due  to  accident, 
fire,  flood,  explosion,  or  otherwise,  arising  or  growing  out  of  the  operation  of  the 
plant,  shall  be  charged  to  the  cost  of  operation,  but  in  lieu  thereof  $0,004  per 
pound  of  powder  shall  be  charged  to  the  cost  of  operation. 

ARTICLE   XV 

This  contract  may  be  terminated  and  canceled  by  the  United  States  (1)  at 
any  time  before  the  manufacture  of  powder  has  begun,  and  (2)  after  the  manu- 
facture of  powder  has  begun  the  contract  may  be  then  canceled,  because  the  need 
for  the  plant  or  the  output  thereof  has  ceased  to  exist,  or  because  of  the  willful 
violation  of  this  contract  by  the  contractor. 

ARTICLE    XVI 

In  case  the  contractor  is  prevented  from  performing  any  work,  or  delivering 
any  powder  hereunder,  by  reason  of  causes  beyond  its  control  or  by  reason  of 
inability  to  obtain  essential  materials  to  be  used  in  the  construction  of  the  plant 
or  in  the  manufacture  of  powder,  or  by  reason  of  labor  shortage  or  labor  troubles, 
the  contractor  shall  be  excused  from  performing  work  or  delivering  powder 
while  prevented  from  so  doing  by  any  one  or  more  of  the  causes  aforesaid,  but 
this  contract  shall,  as  to  the  work,  materials,  and  powder  aff"ected  thereby,  but 
not  otherwise,  be  suspended  during  the  time  such  cause  for  delay  is  present,  and 
all  such  work  shall  be  performed  and  the  powder  delivered  as  soon  as  practicable 
after  such  disability  is  removed,  all  subject  to  the  provisions  of  article  XV. 


3304  MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 

ARTICLE    XVII 

This  contract  shall  not,  nor  shall  any  right  to  receive  payment  or  any  other 
interest  therein,  be  transferred  or  assigned  by  the  contractor  to  any  person,  firm, 
or  corporation  without  the  written  consent  of  the  Secretary  of  War:  Provided, 
however,  the  contractor  shall,  unless  otherwise  directed  by  the  contracting 
ofiicer,  insert  in  every  contract  hereafter  made  for  construction  work,  increased 
facilities,  labor,  material,  supplies,  and  the  like,  or  otherwise  relating  to  the 
performance  of  this  contract,  a  provision  that  such  contract  may  be  assigned  by 
the  contractor. 

ARTICLE    XVIII 

If  any  doubts  or  disputes  shall  arise  as  to  the  meaning  of  anything  in  this 
contract,  they  shall  be  referred  to  the  Chief  of  Ordnance  for  determination.  If, 
however,  the  contractor  shall  feel  aggrieved  at  any  decision  of  the  Chief  of 
Ordnance  upon  such  reference,  he  shall  have  the  right  to  submit  the  same  to  the 
Secretary  of  War,  whose  decision  shall  be  final. 

ARTICLE   XIX 

The  contractor  shall  furnish  to  the  United  States  within  ten  days  after  the 
execution  of  this  contract  a  bond  in  the  sum  of  $20,000,000,  conditioned  upon 
the  full  and  faithful  performance  by  the  contractor  of  all  terms,  covenants,  and 
conditions  thereof.  Such  bond  shall  be  in  form  and  with  sureties  satisfactory 
to  the  contracting  officer.  Unless  such  bond  is  furnished  within  the  time  limited, 
this  agreement  may,  at  the  option  of  the  contracting  officer,  be  canceled. 

ARTICLE   XX 

No  Member  of  or  Delegate  to  Congress  or  Resident  Commissioner,  nor  any 
person  belonging  to  or  employed  in  the  military  service  of  the  United  States,  is 
or  shall  be  admitted  to  any  share  or  part  of  this  contract,  or  to  any  benefit  that 
may  arise  therefrom,  but  this  article  shall  not  apply  to  this  contract  so  far  as  it 
may  be  within  the  operation  or  exception  of  section  116  of  the  act  of  Congress 
approved  March  4,  1909  (35  Stat.,  1109). 

ARTICLE   XXI 

No  person  or  persons  shall  be  employed  in  the  performance  of  this  contract 
who  are  undergoing  sentences  of  imprisonment  at  hard  labor  which  have  been 
imposed  by  the  courts  of  the  several  States,  Territories,  or  municipalities  having 
criminal  jurisdiction. 

ARTICLE    XXII 

Any  notice  addressed  to  the  contractor  at  Du  Pont  Building,  Wilmington, 
Delaware,  and  either  there  delivered  or  deposited  in  a  post-paid  wrapper  in  any 
post-office  box  regularly  maintained  by  the  United  States,  shall  be  deemed  to 
have  been  served  upon  the  contractor.  The  address  of  the  contractor  may  be 
changed  at  any  time  by  notice  in  writing  to  the  contracting  officer.  Nothing 
herein  contained  shall  preclude  service  of  notices  upon  the  contractor  by  delivery 
thereof  to  any  of  its  officers  in  person. 

ARTICLE    XXIII 

Wherever  the  term  "Contracting  officer"  is  used  in  this  contract  the  same  shall 
be  construed  to  mean  his  successor  or  successors,  his  duly  authorized  agent  or 
agents,  or  anyone  designated  by  the  Chief  of  Ordnance,  from  time  to  time,  to  act 
as  contracting  officer. 

ARTICLE    XXIV 

This  contract  shall  supersede,  cancel  and  terminate  the  contract  of  January 
29,  1918,  between  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  and  the  United  States,  by 
which  said  company  was  authorized  to  act  as  agent  of  the  United  States  in  the 
construction  and  operation  of  the  plant  aforesaid;  Provided,  however,  That  such 
cancellation  and  termination  shall  not  in  any  way  affect  any  of  the  subcontracts, 
obligations  or  commitments  which  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  as 
agent,  has  heretofore  in  good  faith  entered  into,  made  or  incurred  under  said 
contract  of  January  29,  1918;  Provided  also.  That  such  cancellation  and  termina- 
tion shall  not  affect  the  right,  title  or  interest  of  the  United  States  to  or  in  any 
work  heretofore  done  or  property  heretofore  purchased  under  said  contract  for 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY  3305 

which  the  United  States  may  have  paid  or  for  which  it  may  have  become  obli- 
gated in  any  manner,  or  to  which  it  was  entitled  under  said  contract  at  the  date 
hereof;  but  on  the  contrary  each  and  every  such  right  and  interest  of  the  United 
States  is  hereby  confirmed. 

In  witness  whereof  the  parties  hereto  have  caused  these  presents  to  be  executed 
and  delivered  (in  sextuplicate)  at  Washington,  D.  C,  the  day  and  year  first  above 
written. 

Du  Pont  Engineering  Company, 
By  E.  G.  BucKNER,  Vice  Pres. 
Wm.  S.  Gregg. 

United  States  of  America, 
By  Samuel  McRoberts, 

Col.  Ord.  N.  A.,  Contracting  Officer. 
W.  S.  Clark. 
Approved. 

Benedict  Crowell, 
Acting  Secretary  of  War. 

These  supplemental  articles  of  agreement  entered  into  this  2nd  day  of  Novem- 
ber 1918  between  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  a  corporation  organized 
and  existing  under  the  laws  of  the  State  of  Delaware,  and  having  its  principal 
place  of  business  in  Wilmington,  Delaware  (hereinafter  called  the  "Contractor"), 
party  of  the  first  part,  and  the  United  States  of  America,  acting  through  and 
represented  by  R.  P.  Lamont,  Colonel,  Ordnance  Department,  United  States 
Army  (hereinafter  called  the  "Contracting  officer"),  acting  by  the  direction  of 
the  Chief  of  Ordnance,  United  States  Army,  and  under  authority  of  the  Secretary 
of  War,  party  of  the  second  part. 

Witness: 

Whereas  the  parties  hereto  entered  into  a  contract,  dated  March  23,  1918 
(War  Order  P4755-711E)  for  the  construction  and  operation  of  a  plant  near 
Nashville,  Tennessee,  for  the  manufacture  of  smokeless  powder;  and 

Whereas  the  said  parties  desire  to  amend  and  supplement  said  contract,  dated 
March  23,  1918,  in  the  interest  of  the  United  States,  as  hereinafter  set  forth,  so 
as  to  provide  and  allow  for  an  increase  in  the  estimated  total  cost  of  the  plant 
aforesaid  over  and  above  the  amount  stated  in  said  contract,  dated  March  23, 
1918;  and 

Whereas  the  estimated  cost  of  said  plant  in  said  contract,  dated  March  23,  1918, 
is  $75,000,000.00;  and 

Whereas  the  contracting  officer  has  satisfied  himself  that  the  estimated  total 
cost  of  said  plant  should  be  in  the  sum  of  $90,000,000.00. 

Now,  therefore,  under  the  laws  of  the  United  States  in  such  cases  made  and 
provided,  and  in  consideration  of  the  mutual  agreements  herein  contained,  the 
said  parties  have  agreed  and  by  these  presents  do  agree  with  each  other,  as 
follows: 

article  I 

That  the  provision  of  article  I  of  said  contract,  dated  March  23,  1918,  which 
reads — 

"It  is  estimated  that  the  total  cost  of  the  work  aforesaid  will  be  approxi- 
mately seventy-five  million  ($75,000,000)  dollars." 
be  and  the  same  is  hereby  amended  so  as  to  read — ■ 

"It  is  estimated  that  the  total  cost  of  the  work  aforesaid  will  be  approxi- 
mately ninety  million  ($90,000,000)  dollars." 

article  II 

Paragraph  (c)  of  article  II  of  said  contract,  dated  March  23,  1918,  which  reads — 
"Whenever  seventy-five  (75)  percent  of  the  total  estimated  cost  of  the 
plant  has  been  paid  to  the  contractor,  in  addition  to  the  advance  payment 
mentioned  in  paragraph  (a)  of  this  article  then  no  additional  payments  on 
account  of  said  construction  work  shall  be  made  to  the  contractor  by  the 
United  States  until  said  advance  payment  of  $18,750,000  is  expended;  pro- 
vided, however,  that  if  the  total  cost  thereof  shall  be  in  excess  of  the  amounts 
paid  to  the  contractor,  including  said  advance  payment,  then  the  United 
States  shall,  upon  presentation  of  satisfactory  evidence,  reimburse  the  con- 
tractor to  the  extent  of  such  excess  cost,  and  if  upon  the  completion  of  the 
plant  there  shall  remain  due  the  United  States  from  the  contractor  any 
unused  sums  theretofore  advanced  by  the  United  States  in  respect  of  the 


3306  MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 

construction  work  aforesaid,  the  same  shall  be  promptly  returned  to  the 
United  States." 
be  and  the  same  is  hereby  amended  so  as  to  read — 

"Whenever  seventy-one  million,  two  hundred  and  fifty  thousand 
($71,250,000)  dollars,  of  the  total  estimated  cost  of  the  plant  has  been  paid 
to  the  contractor,  in  addition  to  the  advance  payment  mentioned  in  para- 
graph (a)  of  this  article,  then  no  additional  payments  on  account  of  said 
construction  work  shall  be  made  to  the  contractor  by  the  United  States 
until  said  advance  payment  of  eighteen  million,  seven  hundred  and  fifty 
thousand  ($18,750,000)  dollars,  is  expended;  provided,  however,  that  if  the 
total  cost  thereof  shall  be  in  excess  of  the  amounts  paid  to  the  contractor, 
including  said  advance  payment,  then  the  United  States  shall,  upon  pre- 
sentation of  satisfactory  evidence,  reimburse  the  contractor  to  the  extent 
of  such  excess  cost,  and  if  upon  the  completion  of  the  plant  there  shall  remain 
due  the  United  States  from  the  contractor  any  unused  sums  theretofore 
advanced  by  the  United  States  in  respect  of  the  construction  work  afore- 
said, the  same  shall  be  promptly  returned  to  the  United  States." 

ARTICLE  III 

Each  and  every  other  provision,  recital,  and  covenant  of  said  contract,  dated 
March  23,  1918,  shall  remain  in  full  force,  virtue  and  effect. 

In  witness  whereof  the  parties  hereto  have  caused  this  agreement  to  be  executed 
(in  triplicate)  by  their  respective  officers,  duly  authorized,  the  day  and  year  first 
above  written. 

DtJ  Pont  Engineering  Company, 

Contractor. 
{W.  S.  G.) 
By  Wm.  Coyne,  Vice  President. 
United  States  of  America, 
By  R.  P.  Lamont,  Colonel,  Ord.  Dept., 
United  States  Army,  Contracting  Officer. 
E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  and  Company  hereby  consents  to  the  provisions 
contained  in  the  foregoing  agreement,  executed  this  2nd  day  of  November,  1918, 
at  Washington,  D.  C. 

E.  I.  DU  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co., 
By  Wm.  Coyne,  Vice  President. 

{W.  S.  G.) 

[War-Ord-P4755-71E] 

Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  and  United  States  of  America  Ordnance 
Department,  United  States  Army 

agreement  supplemental  to  contract  dated  march  23,  1917,  between  the 
same  parties  in  relation  to  construction  and  operation  of  a  powder 

PLANT    at    NASHVILLE,    TENNESSEE 

Dated  April  1,   1918 

This  supplemental  contract  made  this  1st  day  of  April  1918,  by  and  between 
du  Pont  Engineering  Company  (a  corporation  organized  under  the  laws  of  the 
State  of  Delaware,  hereinafter  called  the  "contractor"),  party  of  the  first  part, 
and  the  United  States  of  America,  by  Samuel  McRoberts,  colonel.  Ordnance 
Department,  United  States  National  Army  (hereinafter  called  the  "contracting 
officer"),  acting  by  and  under  the  authority  of  the  Chief  of  Ordnance,  United 
States  Army,  and  under  the  direction  of  the  Secretary  of  War,  party  of  the 
second  part,  witnesseth: 

Whereas  it  is  provided  in  article  13  of  the  contract  between  the  parties  hereto, 
dated  March  23,  1918,  covering  the  construction  and  operation  of  a  Government 
smokeless  powder  plant  at  or  near  Nashville,  Tennessee,  that  the  contractor  is 
authorized  to  procure  liability  insurance  protecting  it  against  any  and  all  loss 
due  to  claims  on  the  part  of  employees  or  the  public,  and  to  charge  all  premiums 
therefor  as  part  of  the  cost  of  construction  and  operation;  and 

Whereas  under  the  law  of  Tennessee  an  employer  is  liable  to  his  employees  in 
work  accident  cases  according  to  the  common-law  doctrine  of  liability  for  negli- 
gence, and 

Whereas  the  parties  hereto  mutually  agree  that  works  accidents  can  be  more 
humanely  and  economically  handled  by  the  voluntary  payment  of  compensation 
in  all  works  accident  cases  occurring  during  the  construction  and  operation  of 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3307 

said  plant  according  to  the  plan  and  schedule  of  compensation  hereinafter  set 
forth. 

Therefore  the  parties  hereto  agree  that  in  lieu  of  procuring  liability  insurance 
as  provided  in  said  article  13,  the  contractor,  in  performing  said  contract,  will 
pay  compensation  as  hereinafter  provided  for  the  disability  or  death  of  an  em- 
ployee resulting  from  a  personal  injury  caused  by  accidents  rising  out  of  and  in 
the  course  of  his  employment,  without  regard  to  negligence,  but  no  compensation 
will  be  paid  if  the  injury  or  death  is  caused  by  the  wilful  misconduct  of  the  em- 
ployee including  intentional  self-inflicted  injury  or  due  to  intoxication  or  wilful 
failure  or  refusal  to  use  a  safety  appliance  or  the  wilful  breach  of  any  rule  or 
regulation  adopted  by  the  employer  and  brought  prior  to  the  accident  to  the 
knowledge  of  the  employee.  Compensation  will  be  paid  according  to  the 
following  schbdule: 

1.  Medical  and  surgical  aid. — For  a  period  not  to  exceed  30  days  after  the 
accident,  the  contractor  will  furnish  or  cause  to  be  furnished,  free  of  charge  to  the 
injured  employee,  such  necessary  medical  attention  as  the  nature  of  his  injuries 
may  require,  and  during  the  whole  or  any  part  of  the  remainder  of  his  disability 
resulting  from  the  injury,  the  employer  may,  at  his  own  option,  continue  to 
furnish  or  cause  to  be  furnished,  free  of  charge  to  the  employee,  an  attending 
physician,  and  in  addition  such  surgical  and  hospital  services  and  supplies  as 
may  be  deemed  necessary  by  said  attending  physician. 

2.  Waiting  'period. — No  compensation  will  be  allowed  for  the  first  fourteen 
calendar  days  of  incapacity  resulting  from  an  injury,  except  the  benefits  provided 
for  in  section  1  above,  but  if  incapacity  extends  beyond  that  period  compensation 
shall  commence  with  the  fifteenth  day  of  disability. 

3.  Permanent  total  incapacity . — Where  the  incapacity  for  work  resulting  from 
the  injury  is  total  the  contractor  will  pay  or  cause  to  be  paid,  as  hereinafter  pro- 
vided, to  the  injured  employee  during  sucli  total  incapacity  compensation  equal 
to  one-half  his  average  weekly  wages  but  not  more  than  $10.00  nor  less  than  $5.00 
a  week,  and  in  no  case  shall  the  period  covered  by  such  compensation  be  greater 
than  500  weeks,  nor  shall  the  total  amount  of  all  compensation  exceed  $4,000.00. 

4.  Permanent  -partial  incapacity. — Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  the  next 
section  where  the  incapacity  for  work  resulting  from  the  injury  is  partial,  the 
contractor  will  pay,  or  cause  to  be  paid,  as  hereinafter  provided,  to  the  injured 
employee  during  such  incapacity  compensation  equal  to  one-half  the  difference 
between  his  average  weekly  wages  before  the  injury  and  the  average  weekly 
wages  which  he  is  able  to  earn  thereafter,  but  not  more  than  $10.00  a  week,  and 
in  no  case  shall  the  period  covered  by  such  compensation  be  greater  than  300  weeks 
from  the  date  of  the  injury.  In  case  the  partial  incapacity  begins  after  a  period 
of  total  incapacity  the  latter  period  shall  be  deducted  from  the  maximum  period 
herein  allowed  for  partial  incapacity. 

5.  Specific  payments  for  specific  injuries. — In  cases  included  by  the  following 
schedule  the  incapacity  in  each  case  shall  be  deemed  to  continue  for  the  period 
specified  and  the  compensation  so  paid  for  such  injury  shall  be  as  specified  therein 
and  shall  be  in  lieu  of  all  other  compensation,  to  wit: 

(ffl)  For  the  loss  of  a  thumb,  fifty  per  centum  of  the  average  weekly  wages 
during  sixty  weeks. 

(6)  For  the  loss  of  a  first  finger,  commonly  called  the  index  finger,  fifty  per 
centum  of  the  average  weekly  wages  during  thirty-five  weeks. 

(c)  For  the  loss  of  a  second  finger,  fifty  per  centum  of  average  weekly  wages 
during  thirty  weeks. 

(ci)  For  the  loss  of  a  third  finger,  fifty  per  centum  of  average  weekly  wages 
during  twenty  weeks. 

(e)  For  the  loss  of  a  fourth  finger,  commonly  called  the  little  finger,  fifty  per 
centum  of  average  weekly  wages  during  fifteen  weeks. 

(/)  The  loss  of  the  first  phalange  of  the  thumb  or  any  finger  shall  be  considered 
to  be  equal  to  the  loss  of  one-half  of  such  thumb  or  finger,  and  the  compensation 
shall  be  for  one-half  of  the  periods  of  time  above  specified. 

(g)  The  loss  of  more  than  one  phalange  shall  be  considered  the  loss  of  the 
entire  finger  or  thumb;  provided,  however,  that  in  no  case  shall  the  amount 
received  for  more  than  one  finger  exceed  the  amount  provided  in  this  schedule 
for  the  loss  of  a  hand. 

(h)  For  the  loss  of  a  great  toe  fifty  per  centum  of  the  average  weekly  wages 
during  thirty  weeks. 

(j)  For  the  loss  of  one  of  the  toes  other  than  a  great  toe,  fifty  per  centum  of 
average  weekly  wages  during  ten  weeks. 

83876— 35— PT  14— —10 


3308  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

(k)  The  loss  of  the  first,  phalange  of  any  toe  shall  be  considered  to  be  equal 
to  the  loss  of  one-half  of  such  toe,  and  the  compensation  shall  be  for  one-half  of 
the  periods  of  time  above  specified. 

(Z)  The  loss  of  more  than  one  phalange  shall  be  considered  as  the  loss  of  the 
entire  toe. 

(m)  For  the  loss  of  a  hand,  fifty  per  centum  of  the  average  weekly  wages 
during  one  hundred  and  fifty  weeks. 

(n)  For  the  loss  of  an  arm,  fifty  per  centum  of  average  weekly  wages  during 
two  hundred  weeks. 

(o)  For  the  loss  of  a  foot,  fifty  per  centum  of  average  weekly  wages  during  one 
hundred  and  twenty-five  weeks. 

ip)  For  the  loss  of  a  leg,  fifty  per  centum  of  average  weekly  wages  during 
one  hundred  and  seventy-five  weeks. 

(q)  For  the  loss  of  an  eye,  fifty  per  centum  of  average  weekly  wages  during 
one  hundred  weeks. 

(r)  The  loss  of  both  hands,  or  both  arms,  or  both  feet,  or  both  legs,  or  both 
eyes,  or  any  two  thereof,  shall  constitute  total  and  permanent  incapacity,  to  be 
compensated  according  to  the  provisions  of  section  three. 

The  compensation  payments  referred  to  in  this  section  shall  in  no  case  be 
more  than  $10.00  per  week  nor  less  than  $5.00  per  week. 

6.  Compensation  to  dependents  in  death  cases. — If  death  results  from  the  acci- 
dent the  contractor  will  pay  or  cause  to  be  paid  in  the  manner  hereinafter  pro- 
vided to  the  dependents  of  the  employee  wholly  dependent  upon  his  earnings 
for  support  at  the  time  of  the  accident,  compensation  equal  to  one-half  the 
average  weekly  wages,  but  not  more  than  $10.00  nor  less  than  $5.00  a  week,  for  a 
period  of  300  weeks  from  the  date  of  the  injury,  and  burial  expenses  not  exceeding 
$200.00.  If  the  employee  leaves  dependents  only  partially  dependent  upon  his 
earnings  for  support  at  the  time  of  the  injury  the  compensation  to  be  paid  shall 
equal  the  same  proportion  of  the  weekly  payments  for  the  benefit  of  persons 
wholly  dependent  as  the  amount  contributed'  by  the  employee  to'  such  partial 
dependents  bears  to  the  annual  earnings  of  the  deceased  at  the  time  of  his  injury. 
If  the  employee  does  not  leave  dependents,  citizens  of  and  residing  at  the  time 
of  the  accident  in  the  United  States  or  the  Dominion  of  Canada,  the  amount 
of  compensation  will  not  in  any  such  case  exceed  $1,000.00. 

7.  In  case  of  no  dependents. — If  the  deceased  employee  leaves  no  dependents 
the  employer  will  pay  the  burial  expenses  of  the  deceased  not  exceeding  $200.00. 

8.  Maximum  amount. — Tlie  total  compensation  in  no  case  shall  exceed 
$4,000.00. 

9.  Lump-sum  payment. — Compensation  in  all  cases  will  be  computed  on  the 
above  basis,  but  at  the  option  of  the  contractor  may  in  all  cases  be  paid  in  a  lump 
sum  equal  to  the  present  value  of  all  future  payments  when  discounted  at  5 
percent  simple  interest. 

The  contractor  is  authorized  to  charge  the  amount  of  compensation  paid  in 
accordance  with  the  above  plan  to  the  cost  of  construction  or  operation,  as  the 
case  may  be,  together  with  all  the  expenses  incident  to  the  administration  of 
said  plan,  and  the  United  States  will  reimburse  the  contractor  for  all  amounts 
so  paid  in  the  manner  provided  in  said  contract  for  reimbursing  the  contractor 
for  expenditures  made  on  account  of  the  construction  or  operation  of  said  plant. 

It  is  further  agreed  that  in  case  any  employee,  or  the  personal  representative 
or  dependent  relative  of  a  deceased  employee,  declines  to  accept  the  compensa- 
tion prescribed  by  said  plan  and  asserts  claim  for  personal  injuries  or  death  on 
account  of  the  negligence  of  the  contractor,  its  agents  and  servants  by  suit  at 
law  or  otherwise,  the  contractor  is  authorized  to  compromise,  adjust  or  litigate 
such  claim  as  it  deems  best,  and  to  charge  to  the  United  States  the  amount  so 
paid  to  compromise,  adjust,  or  litigate  such  claim,  together  with  all  costs,  fees, 
and  disbursements  paid  or  incurred  by  the  contractor  in  connection  therewith, 
and  the  United  States  will  reimburse  the  contractor  for  all  such  amounts,  fees, 
and  costs  so  paid  in  the  manner  provided  in  said  contract  for  reimbursing  the 
contractor  for  disbursements  made  in  connection  with  the  construction  and/or 
operation  of  said  plant. 

As  and  when  requested  by  the  contracting  officer  the  contractor  shall  furnish 
to  the  contracting  officer  copies  of  jjleadings  and  in  any  and  all  suits  brought 
against  the  contractor  to  recover  damages  of  whatsoever  kind  arising  or  gi'owing 
out  of  the  construction  and/or  operation  of  said  plant,  and  the  United  States 
shall  have  a  riglit,  if  it  desires  so  to  do,  to  have  a  representative  present  at  the 
trial  of  any  such  action. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3309 

In  witness  whereof  the  parties  hereto  liave  caused  these  presents  to  be  executed 
and  delivered  in  sextuplicate  at  Washington,  D.  C,  the  day  and  year  first  above 
written. 

Du  Pont  Engineering  Company, 
By . 


United  States  of  America, 
By . 

Contracting  Officer. 
Witnesses: 


lORDER  NO.  WAR-ORD-P4755-711E] 

Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  and  United  States  of  America.  Ordnance 
Department  U.  S.  Army.  Second  Supplemental  Contract,  July  10th, 
1918 

These  supplemental  articles  of  agreement,  entered  into  this  10th  day  of  July 
1918,  between  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  a  corporation  organized 
and  existing  imder  and  by  virtue  of  the  laws  of  the  State  of  Delaware  , 

and  having  its  principal  place  of  business  in  the  city  of  Wilmington,  State  of 
Delaware  (hereinafter  called  the  Contractor),  party  of  the  first  part,  and  the 
United  States  of  America,  by  Samuel  McRoberts,  colonel  Ordnance  Depart- 
ment, National  Army,  acting  by  direction  of  the  Chief  of  Ordnance,  United 
States  Army,  and  under  the  authority  of  the  Secretary  of  War,  party  of  the 
second  part:   Witness: 

Whereas  the  parties  hereto  entered  into  an  agreement  dated  March  23,  1918, 
for  the  construction  of  a  powder  plant  at  or  near  Nashville,  Tennessee,  supple- 
mented by  a  first  supplemental  agreement,  dated  April  1,  1918;  and 

Whereas  the  acquisition  of  land  for  a  gun  range  for  testing  powder  and  for 
storage  facilities  is  necessary  for  the  successful  operation  of  said  plant;  and 

Whereas  a  tract  of  land  near  said  plant  containing  approximately  533.36 
acres  can  be  purchased  for  the  sum  of  sixty-one  thousand  fifty  and  no-lOOths 
dollars  ($61,050.00),  which  is  the  reasonable  value  thereof  and  said  land  is  in  all 
respects  suitable  and  adequate  for  such  gun  range  and  storage  facilities,  and  it  is 
in  the  interest  of  the  United  States  to  supplement  and  amend  the  original  con- 
tract so  as  to  provide  for  the  acquisition  of  said  land: 

Now,  therefore,  under  the  laws  of  the  United  States,  in  such  cases  made  and 
provided,  and  in  consideration  of  the  mutual  agreements  herein  contained,  the 
said  parties  have  agreed,  and  by  these  presents  do  agree,  to  and  with  each  other, 
as  follows: 

Article  I.  The  coiitractor  is  hereby  authorized  and  directed  by  the  United 
States,  and  agrees  to  purchase  for  the  sum  of  not  to  exceed  sixty-one  thousand 
fifty  and  no-lOOths  dollars  ($61,050.00),  that  certain  tract  of  land  located  near 
Nashville,  Tennessee,  and  near  the  powder  plant,  the  construction  and  operation 
of  which  is  provided  for  in  the  original  contract,  known  as  the  John  Donelson 
tract,  containing  approximately  533.36  acres.  The  contractor  shall  obtain  a  deed 
of  general  warranty  conveying  the  title  to  said  land  to  the  United  States,  in  fee 
simple,  free  and  clear  of  all  liens  and  encumbrances  whatsoever.  The  contractor 
shall  also  secui'e  an  abstract  and  opinion  of  title  satisfactory  to  the  Chief  of 
Ordnance.  The  United  States  will  reimburse  the  contractor  for  the  cost  of  the 
said  land  as  herein  authorized. 

Article  II.  All  other  provisions  of  the  agreement  dated  March  23,  1918,  as 
amended  and  supplemented  by  a  first  supplemental  agreement  dated  April  1, 
1918,  shall  remain  in  full  force  and  effect. 


3310 


MUISriTIONS   INDUSTRY 


In  witness  whereof,  the  parties  hereto  have  caused  tliis  contract  to  be  executed 
under  their  seals  and  by  its  duly  authorized  officers,  the  day  and  year  above 
written. 
Signatures: 

DU  Pont  Engineering  Company,  Contractor. 

By . 

Witnesses: 


United  States  of  America, 
By  Samuel  Mc  Roberts, 

Colonel,  Ordnance,  N.  A., 

Contracting  Officer. 

By , 

Lt.  Colonel,  Ord.,  N.  A. 

The  undersigned  hereby  consents  to  the  execution  of  the  above  supplemental 
contract,  amending  and  supplementing  the  agreements  dated  March  23,  1918, 
and  April  1,  1918. 

Attest: 


Exhibit  No.  1169 

Summary  No.  1 

Recapitulation  of  status  statements,  du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  U.S.  Government 
contracts,  September  1,  1925 


Old  Hickory 

Penniman 

Schedule  no.  1, 
construction 

Schedule  no.  2, 
operation 

Schedule  no.  3, 
construction 

Schedule  no.  4, 
operation 

CREDITS 

Advances  by  United  States 

Reimbursements  by  United  States- 

$18,  875,  000.  00 
66,  098,  324.  04 

$18,  954,  000. 00 
6,  466,  181.  48 

$1,591,829.87 
10,  600,  449.  20 

$713, 800. 00 
2,  760,  728. 44 

Total 

84,  973,  324.  04 
240,  213. 05 

25, 420, 181.  48 

171,  430. 00 

15,  486.  43 

38,  104.  77 

12,  192,  279.  07 
27,  901.  41 

3,  474,  528.  44 

Interest  on  bank  deposits 

10, 187.  64 

111,502.67 

7,  430.  78 

5,  481. 22 

Oross  credits  to  United  States. 
Refunds  to  United  States 

85,  325,  039.  76 
(R)  917, 584.  52 
(R)  500,000.00 

25,  645,  202.  68 
1,297,064.06  (R) 

12,  227,  617.  26 
255, 692.  00  (R) 

3,  490, 197.  30 

Reallocation  of  Government  funds 

240,  000.  00 

Net  amount  to  be  accounted 
for 

83,  907,  455.  24 
83,  827,  219.  45 

21,  348,  138.  62 
24,  322,  689. 12 

11,971,925.26 
11,952,437.36 

3,  730, 197.  30 

DEBITS 

3,  713, 162. 66 

Balance  due  United  States.-. 

80,  235.  79 

25,  449.  50 

19,  487. 90 

17,  034.  04 

Cost  (net) -  - 

83,  827,  219.  45 
83,  725,  014.  12 

24,  322,  689.  12 
24,  251,  863.  02 

11,  952,  437.  36 
11,931,118.93 

3,  713, 162  66 

Approved  charges  and  charges  ac- 
crued after  May  31,  1922,  allow- 
able as  per  War  Dept.  decisions 
(reaudit) 

3,  707,  596.  67 

SUSPENSE 

Disallowed  items 

101,  605.  33 

67,  826.  10 

21,318.43 

5,  565.  99 

MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3311 


Recapitulation  of  status  statements,  du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  U.S.  Government 
contracts,  September  1,  1925 — Continued 


Schedule  no.  5, 
Tullytown 

Schedule  no.  6, 
Seven  Pines 

Schedule  no.  7, 
Ives 

Total 

CREDITS 

Advances  by  United  States. 

Reimbursements  by  United  States 

$500, 000. 00 
1,  191,  297.  22 

$500, 000.  00 
621,  709.  98 

$4.  200, 000. 00 

$45,334,629.87 
87,  738,  690.  30 

Total 

1,  fi91,  297.  22 
2, 984.  70 

1, 121,  709.  98 
4,  901. 87 

4,  200, 000. 00 
102,  340. 13 

13.3, 073,  320.  23 

559,  958.  80 
15,  480  43 

Interest  from  other  sources 

Unclaimed  wages - 

1,  782.  65 

2.  676.  24 

1, 192.  93 

168,  177.  26 

Gross  credits  to  United  States. 
Refunds  to  United  States 

1,  696,  0f4.  57 

1, 129,  288. 09 

4,  303,  533.  06 
1,  658, 100.  77  (R) 

133,  816,  942.  72 
4, 128, 441. 35  (R) 

Reallocation  of  Government  funds. 

130,  000. 00 

130, 000.  00 

Net  amount  to  be  accounted 
for 

1,  826,  064.  57 
1, 825,  425.  61 

1,  259,  288. 09 
1,  251,  251. 93 

2,  645,  432.  29 
2,  643,  040. 12 

129,688.501.37 
129,  535,  226.  25 

DEBITS 

Net  cost . 

Balance  due  United  States... 

638. 96 

8,036.10 

2,  392. 17 

153,275.12 

Cost  (net).    .  . 

1, 825,  425.  61 
1,  825, 182.  07 

1,  251,  251.  93 
1,  251,  f41.  68 

2,  643,  040. 12 
2,  640,  324.  74 

129,  535,  226.  25 
129,  336.  241.  23 

Approved  charses  and  charges  ac- 
crued after  May  31,  1922,  allow- 
able as  per  War  Dept.  decisions 
(reaudit) 

SUSPENSE 

Disallowed  items .  . 

243.  54 

(R)  289.  75 

2,  715.  38 

198  9S:i  02 

Comparative  statement  of  accounts  Du  Pont  Engineering  Co. 
[du  Pont  Engineering  Company  books— Sept.  1,  1925,  U.  S.  Government  accounts  May  31,  1922] 


9/1/25  summary 
#1,  Du  Pont  Engr. 
Co.,  all  contracts 

5/31/22  summary 

#2,  U.  S.  Govt., 

all  contracts 

Summary  #3, 
differences, 
all  contracts 

CREDITS 

Advances  by  United  States.. 

45,  334,  629.  87 
87, 738,  690.  36 

45,  334, 629.  87 
87,  739, 9S6. 18 

Reimbursements  by  United  States 

1,295.  82  (R) 

Total 

133,  073, 320.  23 

559, 958. 80 

15, 486. 43 

168, 177.  26 

133, 074, 616.  05 

499, 9G8.  31 

15, 486.  43 

168, 246. 08 

1,  295.  82  (R) 

Interest  on  bank  deposits 

59,990  49 

Interest  from  other  sources 

Unclaimed  wages... 

68.  82  (R) 

Gross  credits  to  United  States 

133, 816, 942. 72 
4, 128, 441. 35  (R) 

133,758,316.87 
3,  324, 497.  77  (R) 

58,  625. 85 

Refunds  to  United  States _ 

803, 943. 58  (R) 

Reallocations  of  Govt,  funds. .- 

Net  amount  to  be  accounted  for 

129, 688,  501. 37 
129, 535, 226.  25 

130, 433, 819. 10 
129, 645, 999. 56 

745, 317. 73  (R) 

DEBITS 

Net  cost 

110,773  31  (R) 

Balance  due  United  States. 

153,  275. 12 

787, 819.  54 

634,  544.  42  (R) 

Cost  (net) 

129,  535,  226.  25 
129,  336.  241.  23 

129,645,999.56 
129,  284, 051.  36 

110,  773. 31  (R) 

Approved  charges  and  charges  accrued  after  May 
31,  1922,  allowable  as  per  War  Dept.  decisions 
(reaudit) . . 

52  189  87 

Suspense  (disallowed  items) 

198,  985.  02 

361, 948.  20 

162,963. 18  (R) 

Balance  due  U.  S.,  Sept.  1,  1925 

153,  275. 12 
198,  985.  02 

Suspense,  Sept.  1,  1925 

Total  Government  claim 

352, 260. 14 

3312  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Exhibit  No.  1170 

statement  showing  gross  and  net  profits  realized  by  du  pont  engineer- 
ing company  on  contracts  with  the  u.  s.  government  during  the  world 

WAR 

The  contracts  involve  the  construction  and  operation  of  the  Old  Hickory 
powder  plant  at  Old  Hickory,  Tennessee;  construction  and  operation  of  the 
loading  plant  for  shells  and  casings  at  Penniman,  Virginia;  the  operation  of  bag 
loading  plants  at  Tullytown,  Pennsylvania,  and  Seven  Pines,  Virginia,  and  the 
construction  of  a  T.  N.  T.  plant  at  Ives,  Wisconsin. 

Old  Hickory  construction $1.  00 

Old  Hickory  operation 1,  961,  560.  68 

Penniman  construction 1.  00 

Penniman  operation 399,  848.  57 

Tullytown 188,  991.  40 

Seven  Pines 120,  422.  16 

Total  gross  profit $2,670,824.81 

Less  Federal  income  and/or  excess  profits  taxes 
paid: 

1918 $417,  135.  61 

1919 1,  621,  557.  47 

2,  038,  693.  08 

Total 632,  131.  73 

Less  stock  bonus  awards  to  employees  which  were  entirely  borne 

by  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  and  Company 193,  194.  18 

Total  net  profit 438,  937.  55 

STOCK  BONUSES  AWARDED  BY  E.  I.  DU  PONT  DE  NEMOURS  AND  COMPANY  TO  EM- 
PLOYEES OF  DU  PONT  ENGINEERING  COMPANY  FOR  SERVICES  RENDERED  IN 
CONNECTION  WITH  THE  OPERATION  OF  THE  OLD  HICKORY  POWDER  PLANT, 
OLD    HICKORY,    TENN.,    AND    PENNIMAN   SHELL   LOADING    PLANT,    PENNIMAN,    VA. 

Cost  to  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  and  Company  of  stock  awarded: 

Old  Hickory  powder  plant $167,  366.  72 

Penniman  shell  loading  plant 25,  827.  46 

Total 193,  194.  18 

The  cost  of  this  stock  was  borne  solely  by  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  and 
Company,  and  no  portion  whatsoever  was  charged  to  the  U.  S.  Government. 

EXTRA  COMPENSATION  PAID  BY  DU  PONT  ENGINEERING  COMPANY,  AND  WHICH  WAS 
BORNE  BY  THE  GOVERNMENT,  TO  CERTAIN  OF  ITS  EMPLOYEES  ENGAGED  IN  THE 
WORK  OF  CONSTRUCTION  OP  THE  FOLLOWING  PLANTS:  OLD  HICKORY  POWDER 
PLANT,  OLD  HICKORY,  TENNESSEE;  PENNIMAN  SHELL  LOADING  PLANT,  PENNI- 
MAN,   VIRGINIA;   AND   VIES   T.    N.    T.    PLANT,    RACINE,    WISCONSIN 

Old  Hickory $151,  355.  00 

Penniman 47,  647.  00 

Ives 648.  00 

This  expense  was  charged  to  the  Government  contracts  as  follows: 

Old  Hickory  construction $151,  355.  00 

Penniman  construction 47,  647.  00 

Ives  construction 648.  00 


Total 199,650.  00 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3313 

Exhibit  No.  1171  ' 

statement  showing  gross  and  net  profits  realized  by  du  pont  engineering 
company  of  contracts  with  the  u.  s.  government  during  the  world  war 

The  contracts  involve  the  construction  and  operation  of  the  Old  Hickory 
powder  plant  at  Old  Hickory,  Tennessee;  construction  and  operation  of  the 
loading  plant  for  shells  and  casings  at  Penniman,  Virginia;  the  operation  of  bag 
loading  plants  at  Tullytown,  Pennsylvania,  and  Seven  Pines,  Virginia,  agid  the 
construction  of  a  T.  N.  T.  plant  at  Ives,  Wisconsin. 

Net  taxable  income,  year  1918  (as  per  Government  agent's  report)  _     $518,  164.  58 
Net  taxable  income,  year  1919  (as  per  Government  agent's  report)  _   2,  031,  163.  49 

Total  net  taxable  income,  years  1918  and  1919. 2,  549,  328.  07 

Deduct  commercial  profits,  year  1919 98,  142.  19 

2,  451,  185.  88 
Income  and  profits  taxes  paid  for — 

Year  1918 $417,  135.  61 

Year  1919 1,  603,  557.  47 

2,  020,  693.  08 
Less  tax  applying  to   commercial  profits   (above 

shown) 44,047.  63 

1,  976,  645.  45 


474,  540.  43 
Less  stock  bonus  awards  to  employees  which  were  entirel}^  borne 

by  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  and  Company 193,  194.  18 


Total  net  profit 281,  346.  25 


Exhibit  No.  1172 

December  10,  1934. 
Lt.  Col.  P.  J.  O'Shaughnessy,  U.  S.  A.,  retired., 

707  Escobar  Ave.,  Coral  Gables,  Fla. 
Dear  Colonel  O'Shaughnessy:  We  have  been  supplied  by  the  War  Depart- 
ment with  a  copy  of  a  memorandum  prepared  by  you  on  April  4,  1932,  concerning 
certain  criticisms  of  the  then  form  of  adjusted-compensation  contract  by  the 
Bridgeport  ordnance  district.  At  page  8  of  this  memorandum  the  following 
statement  appears: 

"During  the  World  War  we  had  to  audit  every  cost-plus  contract.  I  know 
of  only  one  which  was  not  audited  currently;  after  the  war  we  spent  nearly  seven 
years  auditing  and  investigating  that  contract.  It  cost  the  Government  upwards 
of  $1,250,000.  Had  the  auditing  been  done  currently,  it  would  have  saved  the 
Government  a  very  great  deal  of  money." 

Will  you  please  inform  the  committee  of  the  contract  to  which  you  referred? 
We  wou'd  appreciate  an  immediate  reply  by  telegram  collect. 
Yours  very  truly, 

Stephen  Raushenbush,  Secretary. 
AH:cvp 

[  Telegram  1 

Miami,  Fla., 
December  I4,  1934. 
Steven  Raushenbush, 

Secretary  Special  Committee  Investigating  the  Munitions  Industry, 

United  States  Senate: 
Retel  letter  tenth  my  reference  was  to  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  contract 
for  construction  and  operation  of  the  Old  Hickory  powder  plant  at  Nashville, 
Tennessee.  After  the  war  all  of  the  expenditures  on  this  contract,  both  for  con- 
struction and  operation,  were  audited  by  the  War  Department,  the  Depart- 
ment of  Justice,  and  these  aduits  were  approved  by  the  Comptroller  General 
before  making  settlement.  The  investigation  lasted  over  several  years.  The 
figures  given  as  cost  of  audit  is  only  an  estimate. 

P.  J.  O'Shaughnessy. 

*  Substituted  for  "Exhibit  No.  1170",  see  text,  p.  3235. 


3314  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Exhibit  No.  1173 

Reply  of  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  to  Certain  Inquiries  Propounded 
BY  THE  War  Transactions  Section,  Department  of  Justice,  With  Respect 
TO  Certain  Contracts  Between  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  and  the 

United  States  1 2 

A  copy  of  the  inquiries  propounded  is  hereto  attached,  marked  "Exhibit  1", 
and  the  inquiries  are  directed  more  particularly  to  the  contracts  entered  into 
between  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  and  the  United  States,  and  the  sub- 
contracts thereunder,  for  the  construction  and  operation  of  the  Old  Hickory 
smokeless  powder  plant,  near  Nashville,  Tennessee.  However,  during  the  late 
war  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  entered  into  contracts  with  the  United 
States  for  the  construction  and/or  operation  of  five  plants  for  the  United  States, 
and  in  our  replies  to  the  inquiries  propounded  it  is  necessary  in  some  instances 
to  make  reference  to  all  of  such  plants. 

The  following  are  the  Contractor's  replies  to  the  inquiries  propounded. 

"in    the    matter    of    general    INQUIRY" 

Question:  "1.  Has  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  a  complete  and  accurate 
system  of  accounting  of — (a)  Construction  project,  (b)  Operations.  Is  such  now 
available  for  examination  by  the  United  States?" 

Answer:  (a)  "Construction  project." — The  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company 
has  a  complete  and  accurate  record  of  its  expenditures  in  connection  with  all 
construction  projects.  The  system  for  accumulated  expenditures  on  the  general 
ledger  relating  to  construction  w^as  in  accordance  with  plans  mutually  discussed 
between  representatives  of  the  contractor  and  the  contracting  officer,  and  was 
adopted  with  the  approval  of  the  contracting  officer.  The  card  of  accounts 
attached  hereto,  exhibit  2,  adopted  in  connection  with  the  Old  Hickory  construc- 
tion accounting,  will  illustrate  the  subdivision  of  construction  cost  used  in  the 
contractor's  ledgers.  An  intricate  system  for  keeping  separately  the  cost  of 
units  was  not  adopted,  inasmuch  as  the  Government  did  not  consider  such  record 
necessarj',  and  desired  to  save  the  expense  of  the  additional  accountants  which 
would  have  been  required  to  keep  such  records.  The  postings  on  the  general 
ledgers  are  supported  by  properly  approved  vouchers. 

(b)  "Operations." — The  operating  ledgers  were  handled  in  a  somewhat 
similar  manner.  The  controlling  account  for  operating  cost,  however,  was  not 
subdivided  as  in  the  case  of  the  construction  ledgers.  Each  month's  operating 
cost  was  posted  in  total  to  the  controlling  account.  The  detail  costs  were  kept 
by  a  separate  division  which  prepared  monthly  cost  sheets  showing  the  total  and 
unit  costs  of  manufactured  products,  and  also  the  total  and  unit  cost  of  semi- 
finished products  in  the  several  stages  of  manufacture.  These  cost  sheets  were 
prepared  monthly  throughout  the  duration  of  field  operations. 

The  ledgers  and  books  of  the  contractor  and  all  supplementary  records  per- 
taining thereto,  including  the  accounts  payable  vouchers,  except  such  vouchers 
as  were  not  returned  by  the  War  Department  accountants,  are  filed  in  the  Wil- 
mington office  of  the  contractor. 

Question:  "2.  What  are  contractor's  views  on  a  joint  audit  of:  (a)  Mason  & 
Hanger  expenditures,  (b)  operating  expenses  as  determining  costs  in  relation  to 
manufacturing  bonus  claimed." 

Answer:  "(a)  Mason  &  Hanger  expenditures." — All  invoices  paid  to  Mason 
&  Hanger  by  the  contractor,  all  Mason  &  Hanger  pay  rolls  and  all  shop  orders  for 
materials  drawn  from  stocks  of  the  contractor  by  Mason  &  Hanger,  were  carefully 
audited  at  the  plant  by  representatives  of  the  contractor  and  by  the  War  Depart- 
ment auditing  staff.  These  bills  and  vouchers  were  subjected  to  a  second  audit 
by  the  War  Department's  contracting  officer  in  Wilmington,  and  were  approved 
bv  him.  During  the  reaudit  begun  in  October  1919,  by  the  Philadelphia  District 
Claims  Board,  Mason  &  Hanger  expenditures  were  again  subjected  to  a  thorough 
audit. 

"(b)  Operating  expenses  as  determining  costs  in  relation  to  manufacturing  bonus 
claimed." — Operating  costs  and  expenditures  in  connection  with  all  of  the 
operating  projects  undertaken  by  the  contractor  were  audited  in  detail  through- 
out the  progress  of  field  operations,  both  in  the  field  and  at  Wilmington,  and 
were  later  reaudited  by  the  auditors  of  the  War  Department.     Mr.  W.  G.  Kileen, 

>  Exhibits  attached  to  this  brief  are  in  the  committee  files. 

2  Text  of  this  brief  is  contained  in  hearings  before  a  subcommittee  on  ordnance  of  the  General  War  Trans- 
actions Board  under  date  of  Dec.  5,  1923.     (See  appendix,  pp.  3364.) 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 


3315 


supervising  accountant  for  the  War  Department,  prepared  statements  showing  the 
result  of  his  audit  in  checking  contractor's  operating  costs,  compensation  and 
savings,  and  these  statements,  together  with  other  data  relating  to  the  audit, 
were  delivered  by  Mr.  Kileen  to  the  War  Department. 

It  would  therefore  appear  to  be  a  waste  of  time  and  money  to  make  any  fur- 
ther audit  of  the  Mason  &  Hanger  account,  in  view  of  the  fact  that  several 
hundred  thousands  of  dollars  have  already  been  expended  at  the  expense  of  the 
Government  during  the  period  of  construction  and  operation,  and  during  the 
period  of  the  reaudit  which  continued  until  the  end  of  May  1922.  The  contractor 
cannot  acquiesce  in  the  expenditure  of  any  more  public  funds  in  a  further  reaudit 
of  either  the  Mason  &  Hanger  expenditures  or  expenditures  by  the  contractor. 
If  the  Government  expends  any  more  public  funds  in  connection  with  a  further 
reaudit  of  the  Mason  &  Hanger  expenditures  or  of  the  contractor's  expenditures, 
the  Government  must  assume  the  sole  responsibility  for  pursuing  such  course. 

Question:  "3.  Has  contractor  ever  rendered  a  complete  statement  of  account 
to  United  States?     May  we  have  copy  of  its  statement? 

Answer:  Tliruughout  the  progress  of  field  operations,  the  contractor's  books, 
trial  balance  sheets,  accounts  receivable  and  accounts  payable  records,  etc.,  were 
checked  and  inspected  by  representatives  of  the  contracting  officer  of  the  War 
Department,  condensed  statements  were  issued  monthly,  and  cash  statements 
daily,  copies  of  which  were  delivered  to  the  contracting  officer.  Following  cessa- 
tion of  field  operations,  the  contracting  officer  was  furnished  by  the  contractor 
with  a  condensed  financial  statement  monthly  for  approximately  one  year.  The 
contractor  then  discontinued  sending  in  such  statement  at  the  request  of  the  con- 
tracting officer.  Subsequently  such  statements  were  renewed  upon  the  request  of 
the  contracting  officer  whenever  they  were  requested  by  the  contracting  officer. 
Attached  hereto,  marked  "Exhibit  3",  is  a  condensed  financial  statement  showing 
the  status  of  the  contractor's  accounts  with  the  United  States  as  of  October  31, 
1923.  This  statement  represents  the  actual  condition  of  the  contractor's  books 
as  of  that  date,  and  is  supported  by  the  contractor's  books  of  account  and 
vouchers. 

Question:  "4.  Will  contractor  furnish  a  summary  of  items  disallowed  by 
United  States,  and  accepted  by  du  Pont?  This  should  include  a  summary  of 
disallowances  already  vouchered  upon  which  there  should  be  a  refund  or  credit 
due  the  United  States." 

Answer:  Disallowances  by  the  War  Department  auditors  during  the  progress 
of  the  audit  and  accepted  conditionally  by  the  contractor,  are  as  follows: 


Seven  Pines $7,  283.  76 

Ives 973.61 


Total 103,405.87 


Old  Hickory  construction.  $9,  039.  92 

Old  Hickory  operation.  .  .  66,  096.  94 

Penniman  construction 13,  747.  66 

Penniman  operation 7,  735.  27 

Tullytown ^  1,  471.  29 

A  detail  of  these  suspensions,  with  voucher  references,  can  be  furnished  if 
desired. 

By  the  use  of  the  word  "conditionally"  is  meant  that  the  contractor  accepted 
the  above  disallowance  for  the  purpose  of  facilitating  settlement  and  with  the 
understanding  with  the  War  Department  representatives  that  if  settlement  of  the 
contracts  was  not  made,  such  disallowances  would  be  charged  to  the  contracts. 

Question:  "5.  What  amount  does  contractor  at  this  time  admit  is  due  United 
States?" 

Answer:  The  amount  due  the  United  States  as  of  October  31,  1923,  as  shown  by 
the  books  of  the  contractor  was  $958,602.07.  So  long  as  the  contracts  remain 
unsettled,  this  account  is  subject  to  reduction  on  account  of  any  expenditures 
which  may  be  necessary  in  connection  with  the  contracts.  This  amount  is  kept 
in  separate  bank  accounts  and  all  bank  interest  accruing  thereon  is  credited  peri- 
odically to  the  United  States.  The  contractor  has  frequently  urged  the  Govern- 
ment during  the  past  two  or  three  years  to  make  final  settlem^ent  of  the  contracts 
so  that  any  balance  remaining  in  the  hands  of  the  contractor  at  the  time  of  such 
settlement  could  be  returned  to  the  United  States. 

Question:  "6.  Will  contractor  furnish  a  statement  of  operations  with  such  an 
analysis  by  way  of  schedules  to  show  generally  (1)  the  description  of  charges 
entering  into  operations  from  which  the  basis  for  the  bonus  for  saving  was  deter- 
mined, and  (2)  profits  on  operations  from  inception  of  operating  period  to  the 
end  of  operations?" 

*  Credit  item. 


3316  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Answer.  Statements  as  described  above  were  prepared  by  Mr.  W.  G.  Kileen, 
supervising  accountant  for  the  War  Department,  and  were  delivered  by  liim  to 
the  War  Department. 

(1)  "  The  description  of  charges  entering  into  operations  from  which  the  basis  for 
the  bonus  for  saving  was  determined." — ^Exhibit  4  hereto  is  a  complete  to  date  cost 
sheet  dated  as  of  May  31,  1922,  which  was  checked  and  approved  by  War  Depart- 
ment auditors,  and  a  summary  of  the  charges,  exhibit  5,  on  which  "saving  pro- 
fit" was  based.  In  this  connection  Mr.  Kileen  computed  a  profit  of  $55,892.28 
less  than  the  profits  calculated  by  the  contractor,  which  amount  was  suspended 
by  the  War  Department  auditors,  but  inasmuch  as  it  is  the  contractor's  view 
that  the  profits  as  indicated  by  exhibit  5  hereto  are  correct,  this  difference  is  still 
in  dispute  and  has  not  been  refunded  to  the  contract. 

(2)  "Profits  on  operations  from  inception  of  operating  period  to  the  end  of  opera- 
tions."— Exhibit  5  hereto  contains  the  answer  to  this  question  relating  to  the  Old 
Hickor}^  contract.  In  this  connection  statements  of  costs  and  profits  prepared 
by  Mr.  Kileen,  supervising  accountant  of  the  War  Department,  were  delivered  by 
him  to  the  War  Department. 

Question:  "7.  Will  contractor  furnish  a  statement  of  costs  of  construction  and 
equipment  with  such  an  analysis  by  way  of  schedules  to  show  the  costs  by  respec- 
tive units  of  the  whole?" 

Answer:  As  explained  in  answer  to  question  1,  contractor  is  unable  to  furnish 
a  statement  of  costs  by  units,  but  a  statement,  exhibit  6,  is  hereto  attached, 
showing  cost  of  construction  as  subdivided  on  the  contractor's  ledgers  for  each 
contract. 

"in  the  matter  of  specific  items  of  inquiry" 

1.  "Mason  &  Hanger  transaction" — 

Question:  "1.  What  were  Du  Font's  dealings  with  Mason  &  Hanger  previous 
to  this  contract?" 

Answer:  The  only  dealings  between  the  Du  Pont  Company  and  Mason  &  Hanger 
previous  to  the  subcontracts  at  Old  Hickory  consisted  in  the  purchase  by  Mason 
&  Hanger  Company  of  explosives  from  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company, 
just  the  same  as  the  Du  Pont  Company  sold  explosives  to  other  contractors 
throughout  the  country. 

Question:  "2.  Who  negotiated  contract  between  Du  Pont  and  Mason  & 
Hanger?" 

Answer:  The  contracts  were  negotiated,  on  the  part  of  the  Du  Pont  Engineering 
Company,  by  H.  M.  Pierce,  then  chief  engineer  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  & 
Company,  now  president  of  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  and  by  John  L. 
Pratt,  then  special  assistant  to  Chief  Engineer  H.  M.  Pierce,  and  now  vice 
president  and  director  of  General  Motors  Corporation;  and  on  the  part  of  the 
Mason  &  Hanger  Company,  by  Silas  Mason  and  H.  B.  Hanger. 
^  Question:  "3.  Have  Du  Fonts  any  stock  in  Mason  &  Hanger?" 
'■  Answer:  Neither  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  nor  Du  Pont  Engineer- 
ing Company,  nor  any  of  their  subsidiaries,  nor  any  of  their  officers,  has  any 
stock  of  other  financial  interest  in  Mason  &  Hanger  Company. 

Question:  "4.  Who  does  own  majority  of  Mason  &  Hanger  stock?" 

Answer:  After  this  question  was  propounded,  we  have  been  informed  that 
over  90%  of  the  stock  of  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company  is  owned  jointly  by 
Silas  Mason,  H.  B.  Hanger,  and  John  G.  Watts. 

*■  Question:  "5.  Explain  circumstances  of  concern  now  rated  at  $400,000  to 
$500,000  capital,  with  class  B  credit  rating  in  a  town  of  5,662  population  receiving 
a  contract  totalling  $21,511,175.80  on  which  thev  were  paid  a  fee  of  $1,075,558.79? 
(R.  G.  Dunn  1923  listing.)      ($1,075,558.79— $250,000— $825,558.79.)"  _ 

Answer:  The  contractor's  answer  and  position  with  respect  to  this  matter 
is  fully  set  forth  in  a  brief  filed  by  the  contractor  with  the  Secretary  of  War  on 
November  22,  1922,  which  was  referred  by  the  Secretary  of  War  with  other  papers 
to  the  Attorney  General  in  December  1922  with  request  for  opinion.  The  reasons 
for  making  the  subcontract  with  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company,  and  the  fee 
contracted  to  be  paid  therevmder,  are  stated  in  the  brief  above  referred  to,  a  copy 
of  which  is  herewith  submitted,  marked  "Exhibit  7." 

Question:  "6.  What  are  the  intercorporate  relations  of  Du  Font  and  Mason  & 
Hanger?" 

Answer:  This  question  is  answered  by  the  replies  to  questions  1  and  3  above, 
under  heading  "In  the  matter  of  specific" items  of  inquiry  ",  and  no  other  corporate 
relations  exist. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3317 

Question:  "7.  Was  the  du  Pont  official  who  negotiated  the  Mason  &  Hanger 
contract  aware  of  the  maximum  fee  of  $250,000  in  War  Department  regulations? 
Is  it  not  a  fact  that  Mason  &  Hanger  had  other  government  contracts  with  regu- 
lation scale  of  fees?" 

Answer:  The  Du  Pont  officials  who  negotiated  the  Mason  &  Hanger  contracts 
were  not  aware  of  a  maximum  fee  of  $250,000  fixed  by  War  Department  regula- 
tions to  be  paid  to  subcontractors,  as  they  did  not  then  have  any  information  or 
knowledge  of  a  War  Department  regulation  or  regulations  fixing  a  maximum  fee 
of  $250,000  to  subcontractors,  nor  has  the  contractor  ever  been  furnished  with 
an}'  such  regulation  or  regulations,  nor  was  the  contractor  ever  instructed  by  any 
representative  of  the  Government  to  limit  the  fees  to  be  paid  to  subcontractors, 
nor  was  the  contractor  confined  to  any  such  limit  under  its  contracts  with  the 
United  States. 

A  copy  of  the  agency  contract,  dated  January  29,  1918,  between  the  Du  Pont 
Engineering  Company  and  the  United  States  for  the  construction  and  operation  of 
the  Old  Hickory  Plant;  a  copy  of  the  contract  of  March  23,  1918,  between  Du  Pont 
Engineering  Company  and  the  United  States,  which  canceled  and  superseded  the 
contract  aforesaid  of  January  29,  1918;  a  copy  of  the  contract  of  February  6, 
1918,  between  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  and  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Companj^, 
and  a  copy  of  the  contract  of  March  23,  1918,  between  the  Du  Pont  Engineering 
Company  and  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company,  which  canceled  and  superseded 
the  contract  aforesaid  of  February  6,  1918,  are  attached  to  and  made  a  part  of 
the  brief  filed  by  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  with  the  Secretary  of  War  on 
November  22,  1922,  which  is  hereto  attached,  marked  "Exhibit  7." 

"Is  it  not  a  fact  that  Mason  &  Hanger  had  other  Government  contracts  with 
regulation  scale  of  fees?" 

Answer:  The  Government  is  in  a  better  position  to  obtain  this  information  than 
the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company. 

Question:  "8.  What  check  was  kept  on  Mason  &  Hanger  expenditures?" 

Answer:  The  answer  to  this  question  is  covered  in  our  answer  to  question  2 
under  heading  "General  inquiries". 

Question:  "9.  Did  they  not  buy  from  Du  Pont  subsidiaries?  Was  this  an 
agreed  arrangement?" 

Answer:  It  is  possible  that  Mason  &  Hanger  in  their  work  at  Old  Hickory  may 
have  made  some  minor  purchases  from  Du  Pont  subsidiaries,  but  Mason  &  Hanger 
invoices  were  not  classified  in  accordance  with  the  names  of  the  vendors  from 
whom  they  made  purchases,  and  in  order  to  ascertain  from  whom  Mason  & 
Hanger  purchased  their  various  materials,  it  would  be  necessary  to  make  a  com- 
plete analysis  of  all  of  the  suijvouchers  attached  to  their  invoices.  There  was 
certainly  no  agreed  arrangement  that  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company  should 
purchase  from  Du  Pont  subsidiaries. 

Question:  "10.  What  was  the  necessity  for  agreeing  to  an  unlimited  5%  fee, 
obviously  excessive  when  regulations  called  for  a  maximum  of  $250,000?" 

Answer:  We  have  no  knowledge  of  any  War  Department  regulations  calling  for 
a  maximum  fee  of  $250,000  to  subcontractors,  nor  do  we  consider  the  5%  fee  paid 
to  Mason  &  Hanger  excessive  under  the  conditions  which  then  existed.  The 
contractor's  position  with  respect  to  this  matter  is  set  forth  in  exhibit  7  hereto. 

2.   "Bonuses  paid  to  employees" — 

Question:  "1.  Will  contractor  furnish  a  complete  statement  of  all  bonuses  paid 
to  employees  for  any  cause?" 

Answer:  All  of  the  contracts  between  DuPont  Engineering  Company  and  the 
United  States,  for  the  construction  of  Government  plants,  contained  provisions 
with  respect  to  the  payment  of  extra  compensation  for  materials  or  services,  the 
said  provisions  being  as  follows: 

"In  order  that  the  contractor  may  expedite  the  work  of  construction,  it  may 
in  its  discretion,  from  time  to  time,  pay  extra  compensation  for  materials  or 
services,  subject,  however,  to  the  approval  of  the  contracting  officer,  which 
extra  compensation  shall  be  charged  to  the  cost  of  construction." 

In  March  1921  Major  Farr,  then  an  attorney  on  the  War  Department  Claims 
Board,  rendered  an  opinion  to  the  effect  that  the  extra  compensation  paid  by  the 
contractor  to  its  employees  should  not  be  allowed.  Thereupon  the  contractor 
took  an  appeal  from  Major  Farr's  decision,  and  filed  a  brief  in  support  of  its  view 
that  the  extra  compensation  the  contractor  had  paid  to  certain  of  its  employees 
was  allowable.  A  copy  of  the  contractor's  brief  is  herewith  submitted,  marked 
"Exhibit  8",  and  sets  forth  the  reasons  for  paying  the  extra  compensation  and 
the  contractor's  position  with  respect  thereto.  On  November  19,  1921,  Colonel 
H.  M.  Morrow,  vice  chairman  of  the  War  Department  Claims  Board,  overruled 


3318  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Major  Farr's  opinion,  and  held  that  the  extra  compensation  paid  by  the  con- 
tractor to  certain  of  its  employees  should  be  allowed.  It  may  be  here  stated 
that  the  contractor  complied  fully  with  the  provisions  of  its  contracts  with  the 
United  States  before  paying  the  extra  compensation,  as  is  shown  in  its  brief 
filed  with  the  War  Department  Claims  Board  and  attached  hereto,  marked 
"Exhibit  8." 

A  statement  showing  the  total  extra  compensation  paid  by  the  contractor  on 
account  of  construction  of  Government  plants  is  hereto  attached,  marked 
"Exhibit  9." 

A  statement  giving  the  names  of  the  contractor's  employees,  the  positions 
occupied  by  them,  their  location,  and  the  amount  of  extra  compensation  paid  to 
each,  is  hereto  attached,  marked  "Exhibit  10." 

A  statement  listing  the  names  and  monthly  salaries  of  the  contractor's  em- 
ployees who  were  paid  extra  compensation  is  hereto  attached,  marked  "Exhibit 
11." 

Question:  2.  What  payments  were  made  to  employees  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 
Nemours  &  Company  over  and  above  "salaries  and  traveling  expenses"? 

Ansv/er:  For  a  number  of  years  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  has 
awarded  bonuses  to  its  employees  for  meritorious  services  performed,  such 
bonuses  being  usually  paid  in  common  or  preferred  stock  of  the  company. 

A  list  of  employees  who  were  awarded  stock  bonuses  by  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 
Nemours  &  Company  on  account  of  meritorious  services  in  connection  with  the 
operation  of  the  Old  Hickory  smokeless  powder  plant  and  Penniman  shell 
loading  plant — both  Government  plants — is  hereto  attached,  marked  "Exhibit 
12." 

It  should  be  borne  in  mind  that  no  part  of  the  extra  compensation  or  Ijonuses 
awarded  to  operating  employees  at  Old  Hickory  or  Penniman  was  paid  from 
Government  funds,  but  the  expense  thereof  was  assumed  in  its  entirety  by  E.  I. 
du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company. 

In  order  that  the  extra  compensation  paid  by  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company 
in  cash  to  certain  of  its  employees  in  connection  with  the  construction  of  Gov- 
ernment plants,  which  was  charged  to  the  Government,  may  be  compared  with 
the  extra  compensation  or  bonuses  paid  in  stock  by  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours 
&  Company  during  the  same  year,  on  the  basis  of  its  cost  to  the  company,  we 
attach  hereto  a  tabulation,  marked  "Exhibit  13",  which  was  prepared  and 
furnished  to  the  Government  in  1919. 

3.   "Subsidiaries" — 

Question:  1.  Was  it  not  the  rule  to  purchase  materials  from  Du  Pont  sub- 
sidiaries?    Was  this  not  profitable  to  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company? 

Answer:  There  was  no  rule  relating  to  the  purchase  of  materials  from  du  Pont 
subsidiaries.  Cotton  linters  and  hull  shavings  were  purchased  directly  from  or 
through  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  or  its  subsidiary,  Du  Pont  Ameri- 
can Industries,  Inc.  The  cost  of  shavings  and  linters  purchased  for  use  at  Old 
Hickory  was  approximately  $4,580,000.  No  profit  resulted  to  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 
Nemours  &  Company  or  Du  Pont  American  Industries,  Inc.,  through  the  purchase 
of  linters  and  shavings. 

Certain  special  machinery  and  equipment  were  purchased  by  Du  Pont  Engineer- 
ing Company  from  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company,  aggregating  in  value 
approximately  $7,342,926.03,  under  an  arrangement  approved  by  the  contracting 
officer  for  the  United  States,  which  provided  that  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  & 
Company  was  to  receive  a  profit  of  10%  above  cost.  See  exhibit  14  hereto 
attached.  However,  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  voluntarily  waived 
its  rights  to  the  10%  profit,  and  settled  with  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  on 
a  basis  of  cost  in  which  was  included  the  amortization  of  special  facilities,  pur- 
chased for  producing  such  machinery  and  equipment.  The  total  amount  of 
profit  waived  by  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  in  connection  with  this 
matter  was  $734,292.60,  while  the  total  charges  for  amortizing  facilties  was 
$475,338.99,  or  a  saving  to  the  United  States  of  $258,953.61. 

Automobiles  manufactured  by  the  General  Motors  Corporation  and  its  sub- 
sidiaries were  purchased  from  dealers  in  the  vicinity  of  the  several  plants  operated 
by  the  contractor.  Such  purchases,  however,  were  the  result  of  expediency  and 
on  account  of  the  fact  that  the  class  of  car  in  question  was  suitable  to  the  con- 
tractor's requirements,  and  deliveries  could  be  made  promptly. 

The  indirect  profits  accruing  to  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company 
through  its  stock  ownership  in  the  General  Motors  Corporation,  on  account  of 
automobiles  purchased  by  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  were  intangible 
and  insignificant. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3319 

For  use  at  the  Old  Hickory  powder  plant,  54  Ford  cars  were  purchased  by 
Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  from  the  Hippodrome  Motor  Company  and 
Blackwood  Tire  Company,  and  41  Chevrolet  cars  were  purchased  from  the 
Broadwaj'  Motor  Company,  which  serves  to  illustrate  that  the  contractor  did 
not  show  any  preference  for  cars  manufactured  by  companies  in  vv'hich  E.  I.  du 
Pont  de  Nemours  &  Companj-  was  interested. 

The  contractor  purchased  its  principal  supply  of  paints  and  paint  ingredients 
from  the  Harrison  branch  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company,  although  a 
considerable  cjuantity  was  bought  from  competitive  manufacturers  and  vendors 
who  dealt  in  competitive  brands.  Purchases  of  paint,  pigments,  lead,  etc.,  were 
made  from  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  on  account  of  the  fact  that 
by  reason  of  the  relationship  tjetween  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company 
and  the  contractor,  pressure  could  be  exerted  to  insure  priority  in  deliveries,  and 
paints  could  thus  be  obtained  when  needed  without  delays.  Preference  was  not 
given  to  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  for  the  purpose  of  increasing  its 
profits,  inasmuch  as  the  demand  for  such  commodities  throughout  the  war 
period  was  in  excess  of  the  supply,  and  a  ready  market  was  available  for  all  the 
commercial  products  then  manufactured  by  E.  1.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company 
and  its  branches.  Paints  purchased  from  the  Harrison  works  were  invoiced  to 
the  contractor  at  the  market  price.  No  profit  accrued  to  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 
Nemours  &  Company  on  account  of  paint  sales  to  the  contractor,  as  the  Du 
Pont  Company's  paint  business  resulted  in  a  deficit  for  the  year  19 IS. 

Question:   2.  Was  purchase  noncompetitive? 

Answer:  Purchases  in  quantity,  with  the  exception  of  materials  specifically 
contracted  for  and  emergency  procurements,  were  usually  made  after  securing 
competitive  bids  with  a  view  to  obtaining  such  materials  at  the  lowest  price 
consistent  with  cjuality  and  the  assurance  of  delivery. 

Question:  3.  Was  there  any  check  on  materials  or  prices  by  Du  Pont? 
Explain  system. 

Answer:  The  invoice  prices  for  materials  shipped  for  account  of  the  Du  Pont 
Engineering  Companj^  were  checked  and  compared  with  orders  by  the  contractor's 
staff,  and  also  by  the  accountants  emjoloyed  bj^  the  United  States  working  under 
the  direction  of  the  contracting  officer  of  the  War  Department.  Materials  re- 
ceived at  the  plant  were  checked  and  verified  by  the  contractor's  representatives 
and  by  United  States  Government  resident  stores  inspectors. 

The  following  plan  for  making,  checking,  and  recording  disbursements  and 
keeping  a  record  of  the  contractor's  business,  approved  by  the  representatives 
of  the  United  States  in  charge  at  the  time,  was  modeled  on  a  system  which  had 
been  followed  by  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  and  found  by  experience 
to  be  satisfactory: 

Certain  proficient  employees  were  appointed  to  direct  and  supervise  the  work 
of  the  several  departments.  Whenever  the  procurement  of  material  or  equipment 
was  necessary,  requisitions  were  issued  by  the  departments  responsible  and  for- 
warded to  the  purchasing  agent  in  Wilmington,  unless  the  need  was  sufficiently 
urgent  to  necessitate  ordering  direct  by  telegraph  or  otherwise.  In  all  cases 
requisitions  were  sent  to  the  purchasing  agent  for  record.  Orders  for  materials 
specified  in  such  recpiisitions  were  issued  by  the  purchasing  department,  and 
numbered  in  series,  copies  being  sent,  respectively,  to  the  vendors,  plants,  and 
accounting  department,  one  being  retained  bj'  the  purchasing  department  for 
comparison  with  the  vendors'  invoices. 

Vendors  were  required  to  show  the  order  number  on  the  face  of  each  invoice 
for  identification.  Each  invoice,  after  receipt  at  the  home  office,  was  compared 
with  the  orders  and  checked  as  to  terms,  quantity,  and  price  by  the  purchasing 
department,  and  then  forwarded  to  the  plant  which  issued  the  recpiisition,  where 
certification  was  made  as  to  receipt  of  material,  and  the  approval  of  the  plant 
representative  affixed;  and  then  returned  to  the  home  office  at  Wilmington. 
Vouchers  were  then  approved  bj'  the  departmental  director  responsible  for  such 
expenditures,  and  the  charge  distribution  was  noted  thereon,  after  which  the 
accounting  department  functioned,  checking  extensions,  recording,  and  issuing 
checks  in  payment  therefor. 

When  vouchers  had  been  audited,  recorded,  approved  and  paid  by  represen- 
tatives of  the  contractor  they  were  transmitted  to  the  contracting  officer  of  the 
United  States,  who  checked  and  vertified  the  expenditures  until  satisfied  that 
the  requirements  of  the  contracts  had  been  fulfilled.  He  then  indicated  his 
approval  on  each  voucher  and  forwarded  all  vouchers  applicable  to  construction 
projects  to  the  disbursing  officer,  who  recorded  the  approved  expenditures  on 
public  vouchers,  and  issued  instructions  for  the  contractor's  reimbursement. 


3320  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

While  vouchers  applicable  to  the  operating  projects  were  checked  and  approved 
in  the  manner  described  above,  the  contractor  was  reimbursed  as  provided  by 
the  several  contracts  with  respect  to  operation. 

4.   Cotton  linters. — 

Question:   1.  Explain  excessive  prices  above  maximum  contract  rates. 

Answer:  Assuming  that  question  1  refers  to  cotton  hull  shavings,  which  at  the 
time  of  purchase  were  at  a  price  in  excess  of  the  contract  limit,  the  transaction 
is  explained  as  follows: 

An  audit  was  made  of  the  cotton  hull  shavings  purchased  by  Du  Pont  Engi- 
neering Company  by  the  contracting  officer,  representing  the  War  Department, 
resulting  in  disallowance  by  the  contracting  officer,  based  on  the  statement  that 
the  contractor  had  purchased  cotton  hull  shavings  at  a  price  in  excess  of  the 
limits  established  by  the  contract.  The  contractor  then  prepared  a  statement 
showing  the  purchases  of  cotton  hull  shavings,  exhibiting  that  the  total  amount 
paid,  including  freight  to  Nashville,  was  in  excess  of  the  contract  limitation  in 
the  amount  of  $42,354.98,  or  based  on  rates  in  effect  as  of  the  date  of  the  contract 
between  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  and  the  Government,  an  excess  of 
$29,952.85.     See  statement  hereto  attached,  marked  "exhibit  15." 

In  article  IV,  paragraph  (d),  of  the  Old  Hickory  contract,  it  is  stated: 

"All  materials  for  construction  or  operation  upon  which  prices  have  been  fixed 
by  the  United  States  shall  be  purchased  by  the  contractor  at  the  prices  so  fixed, 
and  where  the  price  of  any  of  the  raw  materials  named  in  the  above  schedule  has 
not  been  fixed  by  the  Government  they  shall  not  be  purchased  by  the  contractor  at 
prices  more  than  20  percent  higher  than  those  specified  above,  except  with  the 
approval  of  the  contracting  officer." 

The  above  allowed  a  maximum  price  for  shavings  of  5.064  cents  per  pound, 
delivered  at  Nashville. 

The  contractor  states  that  in  lieu  of  entering  the  market  as  a  direct  purchaser 
of  shavings,  it  arranged  for  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  to  purchase 
the  shavings  required  for  Old  Hickory,  for  the  reason  that  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 
Nemours  &  Company  was  already  a  large  purchaser. 

It  was  soon  found  that  shavings  could  not  be  bought  within  this  price  limit 
and  by  letter  of  June  26,  1918,  here  quoted,  the  contractor  was  authorized  to 
pay  25%  in  excess  of  the  base  price  of  4.22  cents,  or  a  total  of  5.275  cents  per 
pound  for  shavings,  delivered  at  Nashville. 

[In  replying  refer  to  No.  War  Ord.  4755-7nE  Sym.  PR  file  P^l^^-  HEV/avl 

War  Department, 
proctjrement  division, 
Office  of  the  Chief  of  Ordnance, 

Sixth  &  B  Streets  NW., 

Washington,  June  26,  1918. 
E.  I.  DU  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co., 

Wilmington,  Del. 
(Attention  Mr.  A.  C.  Price,  Assist,  to  Director.) 
Gentlemen: 

Subject:   Contract  price  on  cotton  shavings. 

1.  This  will  acknowledge  you  letter  of  May  23,  1918  (our  file  P  471.867/1052), 
your  file  A.  C.  P.,  requesting  that  yoxi  be  authorized  to  pay  in  excess  of  the  20% 
increase  over  the  4.22fi  price  on  cottonseed-hull  shavings  specified  in  contract 
P  4755-711  E,  between  the  Ordnance  Department  and  the  du  Pont  Engineering 
Company  for  the  operation  of  the  Government  smokeless  plant  at  Nashville, 
Tenn. 

2.  This  letter  is  for  the  purpose  of  authorizing  you  to  pay  for  cottonseed-hull 
shavings  a  price  not  more  than  25%  in  advance  of  the  4.22^  price  mentioned  in 
contract. 

3.  This  is  in  accordance  with  conversation  between  the  officers  of  this  division 
and  your  Mr.  Price  and  your  vice  president,  Mr.  Connable. 

Respectfully, 

Procurement  Division, 
Samuel  McRoberts, 

Col.,  Ord.  N.  A. 
By  (s)     Chas.  N.  Black, 
(Chas.  N.  Black), 

Lt.  Col,  Ord.  N.  A. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3321 

The  contractor  states  that  it  was  not  realized  for  some  time  that  the  above 
letter  and  the  contract  itself  made  the  price  of  5.275  cents  include  delivery  at 
Nashville,  and  shavings  were  purchased  within  the  price  limit  of  5.275  cents  per 
pound,  f.  o.  b.  point  of  production. 

The  contractor  states  that  under  date  of  October  18,  1918,  the  Ordnance  De- 
partment was  requested  to  authorize  an  increase  in  the  maximum  price  limit  for 
hull  fibre  or  shavings,  this  request  being  in  the  form  of  a  letter,  below  ciuoted: 

E.  I.  Dtj  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co., 

October  18,  1918. 
Major  W.  H.  Gelshenen, 

Procurement  Division,  Ordnance  Department, 

Sixth  and  B  Sts.,  NW.,  Washington,  D.  C. 
Dear  Sir:   Confirming   our   conversation   this   morning  regarding   hull   fibre 
and  recommendations,  that — - 

1.  We  declare  our  polic}'. 

2.  Indicate  a  price  we  can  pay  for  fibre. 

3.  Establish  this  policy  and  price  upon  as  firm  a  foundation  as  possible,  all 
factors  considered. 

We  repeat  and  confirm  our  expressed  view  that  this  price  should  be  5}^  cents 
per  pound,  f.  o.  b.  point  of  production. 

We  give  below  the  estimated  cost  of  producing  fibre  in  large  quantities  at 
varying  hull  prices  starting  at  $20.00  per  ton  down  to  and  including  $10.00  hulls- 
Hulls  at  $20.00  per  ton  fibre  cost  $7.14  per  lb. 
•  Hulls  at  $19.00  per  ton  fibre  cost  $6.94  per  lb. 
Hulls  at  $18.00  per  ton  fibre  cost  $6.69  per  lb. 
Hulls  at  $17.00  per  ton  fibre  cost  $6.44  per  lb. 
Hulls  at  $16.00  per  ton  fibre  cost  $6.19  per  lb. 
Hulls  at  $15.00  per  ton  fibre  cost  $5.94  per  lb. 
Hulls  at  $14.00  per  ton  fibre  cost  $5.69  per  lb. 
Hulls  at  $13.00  per  ton  fibre  cost  $5.44  per  lb. 
Hulls  at  $12.00  per  ton  fibre  cost  $5.19  per  lb. 
Hulls  at  $11.00  per  ton  fibre  cost  $4.94  per  lb. 
Hulls  at  $10.00  per  ton  fibre  cost  $4.69  per  lb. 
Since  the  price  recommended  is  an  increase  over  the  price  limit  specified  in 
contract  existing  between  the  Government  and  the  du  Pont  Company,  it  is 
necessary  that  we  secure  your  approval  before  contracting  for  fibre  requirements. 
Therefore,  upon  receipt  of  letter  containing  your  approval,  we  shall  proceed 
to  buy. 

Our  plan  will  be  to  advise  those  experienced  in,  at  present  engaged  in,  and  equip- 
ped to  make  acceptable  fibre,  without  new  construction  or  increased  plant 
equipment,  that  we  are  ready  to  negotiate  fibre  contracts  for  a  limited  tonnage 
at  a  price  of  5]4  cents  per  pound,  f.  o.  b.  point  of  production,  fibre  to  be  made 
under  enclosed  specifications,  deliveries  to  be  shown  by  months  up  to  but  not 
beyond  June  1,  1919. 

Very  truly  yours, 

(s)      F.  L.  CoNNABLE,  VicB  President. 
FLC-ins 

There  being  no  reply,  contractor  repeated  the  request  in  follow-up  letter  of 
October  31,  1918,  herewith  quoted. 

October  31,  1918. 
Major  W.  H.  Gelshenen, 

Ordnance  Department  Procurement  Division, 

6th  &  B  Sts.,  NW.,  Washington,  D.  C. 
Dear  Sir:   You  have  not  yet  advised  us  in  writing  of  the  authority  to  pay 
55-4?^  for  fibre.     As  the  contract  specifications  limit  to  .0467^  f.  o.  b.  points  of 
production,  our  records,  to  be  complete,  should  have  your  written  authority  to 
pay  5K  figure. 

We  advised  you  that  certain  purchases  had  already  been  made  covering  monthly 
deliveries  up  to  August  1st,  1919.     Is  it  your  desire  to  have  on  file  a  record  of 
these  purchases  as  made  with  the  sellers,  naming  the  quantities?     If  so,  we  shall 
promptly  supply  this  information. 
Yours  very  truly, 

(s)     F.  L.  CoNNABLE,  Vicc  President. 
FLC-c 

It  will  be  noted  that  the  contractor's  letter  of  October  31,  1918,  refers  to  the 
price  limit  named  in  the  contract  as  .0467  cents  but  requests  authority  to  pay 


3322  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

5J4  cents  for  fibre.  The  limit  of  .0467  is  the  unit  price  named  in  the  contract  for 
linters  and  the  contractor  contends  that  the  follov.fing  letter  from  the  War  De- 
partment, dated  November  5,  1918,  erroneously  refers  to  linters  and  that  this 
letter  was  intended  to  refer  to  hull  fibre  or  shavings: 

War  Department, 
Office  of  the  Chief  of  Ordnance,  Procurement  Division, 

Washington,  November  5,  1918. 

[To  insure  prompt  attention  in  replying  refer  to  P  No.  471.857/1730.    Attention  of  M;ijor  W.  H.  Gelshenen 

WGII/ali) 

E.  I.  DU  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company, 

Wilmington,  Delaware. 
(Attention  of  Mr.  Frank  S.  Connable.) 
Subject:   Cotton  linters. 

Gentlemen:  1.  The  Chief  of  Ordnance  instructs  me  to  authorize  you  that 
under  the  circumstances  of  the  shortage  of  the  crop  in  cotton  linters  you  may 
advance  the  limit  agreed  upon  for  the  purchase  of  fibre  from  .0467  cents  f.  o.  b. 
points  of  production  to  .0525  same  terms  and  conditions. 

2.  The  second  paragraph  in  your  letter  of  October  31st  is  noted,  and  it  is  felt 
that  it  would  he  better  policy  to  spread  the  present  orders  over  a  greater  number 
of  producers  and  confine  purchases  to  the  next  four  or  five  months  rather  than  to 
tie  up  with  one  or  two  purchasers  for  a  long  period.  In  this  way  the  commitments 
of  the  Department  at  any  one  time  will  not  be  as  heavy. 
Respectfully, 

(s)     W.  H.  Gelshenen, 
(W.  H.  Gelshenen), 
Major,  Ord.  Dept.  U.  S.  A. 

The  contractor  states  that  the  average  cost  of  ail  shavings  purchased  was 
5.5939  cents  per  pound  delivered  at  Nashville. 

The  contractor  further  states  tha.t  to  the  best  of  its  knowledge,  the  United 
States  did  not  directly  fix  the  price  of  havings,  but  did  indirectly  fix  it  through 
the  act  of  the  Food  Administration  in  naming  p,  price  of  $20.00  per  ton  for  cotton 
hulls,  which  vvas  equivalent  to  a  price  of  7.14  cents  per  pound  for  shavings  at 
point  of  production. 

The  contractor  contends  that  it  purchased  shavings  at  the  lovs^est  obtainable 
price  and  in  particular  at  less  cost  than  the  price  for  shavings  corresponding  to 
the  Food  Administration's  price  for  hulls;  and  further,  had  the  Ordnance  Depart- 
ment been  requested  earlier  to  authorize  an  increased  price,  the  authorization 
would  have  been  given,  as  hull  shavings  had  to  be  obtained.  And  this  conclusion 
is  justified  by  the  approval  which  was  given  b,y  the  Ordnance  Department  on 
November  5,  1918,  to  pay  5.25  cents  per  pound  f.  o.  b.  point  of  production. 

The  amount  involved,  viz,  $42,354.98,  was  allowed  by  the  Assistant  Secretary 
of  War  under  date  of  April  5,  1922,  by  the  following  decision: 

"1.  Freight  on  shavings  being  a  claim  for  $45,572.27  by  reason  of  a  payment 
by  the  contractor  of  prices  for  cotton  shavings  in  excess  of  prices  stipulated  in 
article  IV  of  the  contract,  allowed." 

It  will  be  observed  that  the  amount  allowed  by  the  Assistant  Secretary  was 
$45,572.27,  but  the  actual  amount  as  it  finally  checked  out  was  $42,354.98. 

Question:   "2.   Was  this  cotton  bought  from  Du  Pont?" 

Answer:  When  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  on  account  of  its  Old 
Hickory  operations  became  a  prospective  purchaser  of  shavings,  it  was  decided 
that  it  would  be  unwise  to  enter  the  market  as  an  additional  competitor  which 
might  have  had  a  tendency  to  cause  sellers  to  increase  prices,  inasmuch  as  the 
demand  at  this  time  for  cotton  hull  shavings  was  in  excess  of  the  supply.  It  was, 
therefore,  mutually  agreed  that  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  would 
buy  not  only  for  its  own  requirements,  b  t  arrange  to  purchase  such  shavings  as 
might  be  required  by  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company.  Shavings  for  Old 
Hickory,  as  well  as  shavings  for  the  plants  of  the  ]3arent  company,  were  ordered 
in  accordance  with  a  requirement  schedule  which  was  revised  from  month  to 
month,  or  oftener  if  necessary. 

The  purchasing  department  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  purchased 
millions  of  pounds  of  shavings,  but  such  piu'chases  were  not  made  specifically  for 
any  plant  or  contract,  l)ut  whenever  shavings  were  reciuired  by  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 
Nemours  &  Company  or  by  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  shipments  were 
ordered  by  the  purchasing  department.  Therefore,  question  2  may  l^e  answered 
by  stating  that  cotton  hull  shavings  purchased  in   connection   with  the  Old 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTEY  3323 

Hickory  operations  were  procured  through  the  agency  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours 
&  Company  and  bills  were  rendered  by  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company 
for  such  purchases  to  the  contractor. 

Question:  "3.  Was  there  ever  a  readjustment  on  books  of  this  excessive  price 
and  was  credit  allowed  United  States?" 

Answer:  This  question  apparently  applies  to  the  excess  payment  on  hull  shav- 
ings indicated  in  question  1  and  on  this  assumption  the  contractor  states  that 
the  $42,354.98  was  not  refunded  inasmuch  as  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War,  as 
explained  in  the  answer  to  question  1,  held  this  disbursement  proper  under  the 
circumstances. 

The  contractor  purchased,  utilized,  and  disposed  of  hull  shavings  in  connection 
with  the  Old  Hickory  operation  as  follows: 

E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company #25,  Oil,  348 

Distribution: 

Used  in  manufacture #10,  930,  835 

Destroyed  by  fire  and  paid  for  by  trans- 
portation company #98,  686 

Adjustment  (short) #84,625 

Transferred  to  the  U.  S.  as  per  inventory 

at  the  close  of  operation, #13,  897,  202 

#25,  Oil,  348 

A  refund  was  made  to  the  United  States  on  account  of  charges  made  by  E.  I. 
du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  in  excess  of  cost  in  connection  with  the  purchase 
of  cotton  hull  shavings  in  the  amount  of  $150,497.77.  The  history  of  that  trans- 
action is  as  follows: 

E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  purchased  for  the  account  of  Du  Pont 
Engineering  Company,  during  the  progress  of  operations  at  Old  Hickory, 
25,011,348  lbs.  of  cotton  hull  shavings  as  per  statement  attached  hereto,  exhibit 
16.  The  purchase  of  shavings  was  made  under  the  direction  of  Mr.  F.  L.  Connable 
vice  president  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company,  who  was  then  in  charge 
of  the  purchase  of  shavings.  Purchases  of  shavings  were  made  under  contracts 
which  contained  adjustment  clauses,  and  by  direction  of  Mr.  Connable  bills  were 
rendered  to  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  at  5%^  per  lb.,  subject  to  later 
adjustment,  and  such  bills  were  paid  by  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  with 
the  understanding  that  the  prices  would  be  adjusted  later.  Early  in  1919  a 
written  report  was  addressed  to  Mr.  Connable  by  a  subordinate  which  indicated 
approximately  the  actual  cost  of  the  shavings  shipped  to  the  Old  Hickory  plant 
and  the  approximate  amount  of  refund  due  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company. 
Mr.  Connable,  however,  was  ill  at  this  time,  and  the  adjustment  was  overlooked, 
and  for  this  reason  a  refund  to  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  was  not  made 
until  the  matter  was  brought  to  the  attention  of  the  contractor  by  Major  Guise 
in  a  letter  dated  November  8,  1920,  whereupon  the  adjustment  was  made. 

The  contractor  purchased,  utilized,  and  disposed  of  cotton  linters  in  connection 
with  the  Old  Hickory  operation  as  follows: 

Purchases:  Pounds 

Du  Pont  American  Industries 43,  020,  382 

E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co 13,894,  538 


56,  914,  920 

Distribution: 

Used  in  manufacture 25,  090,  576 

Less  adjustment 162,  212 

24,  928,  364 
Transferred  to  United  States  as  per  inventory  at  close  of 

of  operations 31,  986,  556 

56,  914,  920 

A  charge  aggregating  $157,976.03  was  made  by  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  & 
Company  in  excess  of  the  fixed  price  established  by  the  War  Industries  Board  in 
connection  with  cotton  linters  purchased  and  delivered  to  Du  Pont  Engineering 
Company.  See  exhibit  17  attached  hereto.  This  overcharge  was  refunded  to  the 
Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  and  the  funds  deposited  in  bank  to  the  credit  of 
the  Old  Hickory  contract. 

83876 — 35— PT  14 11 


3324  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

Linters  purchased  from  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  were  billed  to 
Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  at  5%^  per  lb.,  subject  to  the  understanding  that 
this  price  would  subsequently  be  adjusted  when  the  actual  cost  of  such  linters  was 
determined.  However,  on  account  of  the  illness  of  Mr.  Connable,  vice  president 
in  charge  of  cotton  linters,  and  his  retirement  from  actual  participation  in  business, 
the  adjustments  were  overlooked  and  the  linters  purchased  from  the  E.  I.  du  Pont 
de  Nemours  &  Company  were  entered  on  the  contractor's  books  and  paid  for  at 
the  price  of  5%^  per  lb.  Adjustment  was  later  made,  and  the  excess  refunded,  as 
stated  above. 

Question:  "4.  Why  were  forty-seven  carloads  of  cotton  of  a  value  of  $83,000 
shipped  from  Hopewell,  a  Du  Pont  plant, to  Old  Hickory  on  February  15,  1919?" 

Answer:  Through  an  error  on  the  part  of  the  consignors,  the  Buckeye  Cotton 
Oil  Companj^  of  Cincinnati,  Ohio,  45  cars  containing  shavings  ordered  for  the 
Old  Hickory  powder  plant  were  shipped  and  delivered  to  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours 
&  Company,  at  Hopewell,  Virginia,  and  when  this  error  was  discovered  the  linters 
were  reconsigned  to  the  Old  Hickory  Plant.  This  error  in  shipment  delayed  the 
deliveries  at  Old  Hickory  until  February  1919. 

The  latter  part  of  1918  an  order  was  placed  with  the  Buckeye  Cotton  Oil  Corn- 
many  of  Cincinnati,  Ohio,  for  November  delivery  of  shavings  at  the  Old  Hickory 
powder  plant,  but  through  a  misunderstanding  on  the  part  of  the  Buckeye  Cotton 
Oil  Company,  they  were  consigned  to  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  at 
Hopewell,  Virginia.  As  soon  as  this  eri'or-was  detected,  the  Buckeye  Cotton  Oil 
Company  was  notified  to  stop  further  shipments  to  Hopewell  and  arrange  for  the 
diversion  of  all  cars  en  route.  Prior  to  the  latter  part  of  1918  the  cotton  hull 
shavings  purchased  for  Old  Hickorj-  were  furnished  by  the  East  St.  Louis  Cotton 
Oil  Company,  but  on  account  of  their  inabilitj'  to  supply  shavings  in  the  latter 
part  of  1918,  arrangements  vrere  made  with  the  Buckeye  Cotton  Oil  Company  to 
furnish  these  shavings.  The  Buckeye  Company  had  been  shipping  to  Hopewell, 
Virginia,  regularly  and  had  theretofore  never  shipped  any  shavings  to  _  Old 
Hickory.  This  accounted  for  the  misunderstanding  of  the  shipping  directions. 
The  Buckeye  Company  admitted  the  error  and  absorbed  the  difference  in  freight 
charges.  In  other  words,  the  Government  only  paid  freight  charges  from  origi- 
nating points  to  Old  Hickory;  the  excess  freight  charges  resulting  from  the  ship- 
ment into  Hopewell  and  from  Hopewell  to  Old  Hickory  were  borne  by  the 
Buckeye  Cotton  Oil  Company. 

It  may  be  here  stated  that  had  these  shavings  been  retained  at  the  Hopewell 
plant,  they  would  have  been  delivered  to  and  charged  to  the  United  States  in  the 
inventory  of  materials  on  hand  at  the  Hopewell  plant  at  the  close  of  operations 
there.  So  that  any  inference  that  the  Du  Pont  Company  was  trying  to  unload 
shavings  at  the  expense  of  the  Government  is  without  justification.  The  shav- 
ings that  were  shipped  from  Hopewell  to  Old  Hickory  were  purchased  for  use  at 
Old  Hickory  on  Du  Pont  engineering  requisition  GOH-2128,  copy  of  which  is 
hereto  attached,  marked  "Exhibit  18." 

Question:   "5.  Explain  this  transaction." 

Answer:   See  answer  to  question  4  above. 

Question:   "6.  Excess  on  cotton  shavings  of  $42,354.98.     Was  this  refunded?" 

Answer:   See  answer  to  question  1. 

Question:  "7.  Explain  weights  from  Du  Pont  i^ierican  Industries  of  1,000 
lbs.  to  2,468  lbs.  per  bale,  on  cotton  linters,  so  charged  to  United  States.  (See 
Agent  Towles'  report)." 

"The  following  is  a  list  of  apparent  overweights  charged  in  shipments  of  cotton 
linters  to  the  Old  Hickory  powder  plant,  as  evidenced  by  documents  in  the 
possession  of  investigators  for  the  Department  of  Justice: 

Car  D.  L.  &  W.  no.  34250  from  Hopewell,  Va.  2/20/19,  45  bales  weighing 
59,980,  average  1,332  pounds  to  bale. 

Car  N.  Y.  C.  no.  236165  from  Hopewell,  Va.  2/22/19.  51  bales  weighing 
76,144,  average  1,492  pounds  to  bale. 

Car  R.  F.  &  P.  no.  2203,  from  Mangum,  Okla.  11/7/18.  40  bales  weighing 
98,749,  average  2,468  pounds  to  bale. 

Car.  M.  K.  T.  no.  94333  from  Dallas,  Texas.  10/16/18.  24  bales  weighing 
24,000  pounds,  average  1,000  pounds  per  bale. 

All  of  the  above  from  Du  Pont  American  Industries." 

Answer:  No  standard  package  weight  for  linters  or  shavings  has  been  estab- 
lished or  recognized  by  dealers  in  these  commodities  and  bales  vary  considerably 
in  weight.  The  avoirdupois  pound  is  the  unit  on  which  trading  is  based  and 
the  public  weigher  or  warehouse  weight  certificates  are  usually  accepted  by  both 
sellers  and  buyers. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTKY  3325 

Agent  Towles'  report,  supplementary  to  your  question,  is  apparently  based 
on  incorrect  information,  inasmuch  as  the  following  errors  are  apparent: 

The  first  two  cars  mentioned  by  him  w^ere  not  obtained  through  the  Du  Pont 
American  Industries,  but  from  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company,  and  con- 
tained cotton  hull  shavings  and  not  linters.  The  other  two  cars  did  contain 
cotton  linters  and  were  billed  by  Du  Pont  American  Industries. 

The  shipments  w"ere  as  follows: 

D.  L.  &  W.  car  no.  34250,  from  Hopewell,  Va.,  February  20,  1919,  billed  by  E.  I. 
du  Pont  de  INemours  &  Company — no.  3205  (1919) — contained  45  bales  of  cot- 
ton hull  shavings,  29,980  lbs.,  which  is  an  average  weight  per  bale  of  666  lbs. 
(See  bill  of  lading,  exhibit  19,  attached  hereto.) 

N.  Y.  C.  car  no.  236155  from  Hopewell,  Va.,  February  22,  1919,  billed  by  E.  I. 
du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company — no.  3254  (1919) — contained  51  bales  of  cot- 
ton hull  shavings  weighing  31,760  lbs.,  which  is  an  average  per  bale  of  662  lbs. 
(See  bill  of  lading,  exhibit  20,  attached  hereto.) 

R.  F.  &  P.  car  no.  2203  from  Magnum,  Okla.,  November  7,  1918,  billed  by  Du 
Pont  American  Industries — no.  110457  (1918) — contained  39  bales  of  cotton 
linters  weighing  18,749  lbs.,  which  is  an  average  of  431  lbs.  per  bale.  (See  weight 
sheet,  exhibit  21  attached  hereto.) 

M.  K.  &  T.  car  no.  94333  from  Dallas,  Texas,  October  16,  1918,  billed  by  Du 
Pont  American  Industries — no.  100571  (1918) — contained  23  bales,  weighing 
13,789  lbs.,  which  is  an  average  per  bale  of  600  lbs.  (See  weight  sheet,  exhibit  22, 
attached  hereto.) 

The  above  w'eights  are  in  accord  with  the  weights  billed  by  the  vendor  to  the 
contractor,  and  paid  for  by  the  contractor,  and  no  greater  weights  were  paid  for 
by  the  Government. 

5.   '^Freight  charges". — 

Question:  "1.  Was  a  reaudit  or  refund  of  excessive  freight  ever  made?  " 

Answer:  A  reaudit  of  freight  bills  w^as  made  by  the  War  Department,  and 
refunds  of  freight  overcharges  detected  by  the  contractor  or  revealed  by  the 
Government  audit,  or  disclosed  du.ring  audits  made  by  the  Railroad  Adminis- 
tration, were  refunded  to  the  contractor,  with  the  exception  of  overcharges  in 
freight  by  the  N.  C.  &  St.  L.  Railroad  Company-,  which  claims,  aggregating 
$26,411.09,  were  withheld  by  the  N.  C.  &  St.  L.  Railroad  Company  on  the  grounds 
that  its  accounts  with  the  United  States  were  in  process  of  adjustment,  and  it 
was  not  considered  advisable  to  pay  this  amount  to  the  contractor  at  the  time. 
In  this  connection,  it  is  well  to  state  the  method  which  was  pursued  by  the  con- 
tractor in  handling  freight  tiills. 

Freight  bills  w^ere  presented  at  the  contractor's  plants  when  materials  covered 
by  such  freight  bills  were  delivered.  These  freight  bills  were  then  noted  vith 
reference  to  the  contractor's  order  numbers  for  identification  purposes.  The 
railroad  companies  made  sight  drafts  on  the  contractor  at  convenient  intervals 
attaching  to  such  drafts  statements  of  the  freight  bills  covered,  which  drafts  were 
honored  by  the  contractor,  and  after  the  freight  bills  w^ere  received  from  the 
plants  at  the  Wilmington  office,  they  were  checked  with  the  above-described 
statements,  and  anj-  discrepancies  detected  were  taken  up  with  the  railroads  for 
adjustment.  At  the  Vvllmington  office  of  the  contractor  all  freight  bills  were 
checked  with  the  material  orders  or  requisitions  and  the  proper  references  cross 
noted  for  record.  Each  freight  bill  was  given  a  serial  number  and  entered  on 
registers.  The  charges  were  then  recapitulated  and  distributed  to  the  proper 
ledger  accounts.  After  the  contractor  had  completed  the  above  process,  the 
freight  bills  were  transmitted  to  the  contracting  officer  of  the  United  States  who 
proceeded  to  audit  same  in  any  manner  that  he  desired.  Upon  the  return  of  these 
bills  to  the  contractor,  the  freight  Inlls  relating  to  operating  projects  were  for- 
warded to  the  traffic  department  for  audit  as  to  rates. 

Construction  freight  bills  were  not  subjected  to  an  audit  as  to  rates  on  account 
of  the  fact  that  the  United  States  Government  did  not  consider  such  an  audit 
necessary  or  desirable.      (See  letters  hereto  attached,  marked  "Exhibit  23.") 

Overpayments  or  underpayments  of  freight  in  connection  wdth  construction 
projects  did  not  result  in  any  loss  or  gain  to  the  United  States,  inasmuch  as 
overcharges  paid  to  the  Railroad  Administration  and  reimbursed  to  the  contractor 
were  returned  to  the  United  States  in  the  form  of  increased  receipts  from  the 
Railroad  Administration,  and  undercharges  vice  versa  decreasing  the  Railroad 
Administration's  receipts  were  offset  by  corresponding  decreases  in  the  amount 
expended  by  the  contractor  and  reimbursable  by  the  United  States. 


3326  MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 

Freight  in  connection  with  operating  projects,  however,  involved  the  factor  of 
profits  as  follows:  On  all  cost-phis  contracts  the  contractor's  profit  varied  directly 
in  the  ratio  of  cost  at  the  rate  of  profit  stipulated  in  the  contracts.  Profits  in 
connection  with  the  Old  Hickory  operating  project,  however,  were  affected  in  an 
inverse  ratio,  inasmuch  as  this  contract  provided  that  the  contractor  would 
benefit  to  the  extent  of  50%  in  any  saving  effected  over  and  above  a  stipulated 
base  price.  Therefore  in  consequence  of  this  profit  factor,  freight  bills  relating 
to  the  operating  projects  were  subjected  to  audit  as  to  rates,  and  claims  instituted 
for  overcharges. 

Question:    "2.   Why  was  freight  allowed  to  come  in  at  excess  charges?" 

Answer.  The  Railroad  Administration  did  not  do  business  with  the  Du  Pont 
Engineering  Company  on  a  credit  basis,  and  the  best  arrangement  that  the  con- 
tractor could  make  was  to  accept  the  sight  drafts  of  the  various  railroads  for 
freight  in  connection  with  deliveries  at  the  plants.  It  was  impracticable  to  audit 
freiglit  bills  prior  to  payment  and  excess  charges  could  not  be  detected  until 
such  bills  had  been  subjected  to  audit. 

Question.   "3.  Was  Mason  &  Hanger  paid  5%  on  this  freight?" 

Answer.  Under  the  terms  of  the  contract  entered  into  between  the  Du  Pont 
Engineering  Company  and  Mason  &  Hanger,  Mason  &  Hanger  were  entitled  to 
receive  5%  on  the  freight  paid  for  such  materials  as  were  purchased  and  used  by 
them  in  connection  with  the  work  performed  for  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Com- 
pany at  the  Old  Hickory  powder  plant.  However,  a  large  quantity  of  material 
consigned  to  Mason  &  Hanger  was  delivered  to  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company 
at  the  Old  Hickory  plant,  and  in  such  instances  wherein  shipments  were  accepted 
directly  by  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  the  freight  charges  were  included 
in  drafts  drawn  by  the  railroad  companies  for  freight  charges  of  the  Du  Pont 
Engineering  Company  and  were  thus  paid  by  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company 
direct. 

In  order  to  save  accounting  work,  Mason  &  Hanger  did  not  insist  upon  receiving 
a  commission  on  freight  paid  by  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  as  described 
above,  and  consequently  received  commission  only  on  such  freight  as  was  paid 
directly  bj'  themselves  and  included  in  their  invoices  to  the  Du  Pont  Engineering 
Company.  Affidavit  of  F.  L.  Bebout,  who  was  employed  by  Du  Pont  Engineering 
Company  as  chief  clerk  in  charge  of  the  freight-checking  division,  is  hereto 
attached,  marked  "Exhibit  24." 

6.  ^^ Broadway    Motors". — 

Question.  "1.  Will  contractor  furnish  a  report  of  transactions  with  Broadway 
Motors,  comparing  prices  charged  United  States  for  Chevrolet  cars  with  current 
prices?" 

Answer.  On  May  11,  1921,  Mr.  J.  R.  Peebles,  auditor  for  the  War  Department, 
presented  to  the  contractor  a  memorandum  alleging  that  the  Du  Pont  Engineering 
Company  had  paid  invoices  of  the  Broadway  Motors  Company  on  which  cars, 
accessories,  etc.,  were  charged  at  higher  prices  than  the  prices  charged  to  their 
general  trade.  Attached  hereto  is  a  copy  of  a  report,  dated  October  30,  1921, 
marked  "Exhibit  25",  submitted  by  the  contractor  to  Major  Farr,  special  repre- 
sentative of  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War,  and  accepted  by  him  as  a  satisfactory 
reply. 

In  the  inquiries  submitted  to  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  by  the  war 
transactions  section  several  points  were  not  touched  upon  which  may  be  of  in- 
formation to  the  board,  and  therefore  we  are  submitting  herewith  a  statement, 
marked  "Exhibit  26",  of  gross  earnings  and  net  profits  of  the  Du  Pont  Engineer- 
ing Company  (United  States  Government  contracts)  to  date  from  inception  to 
October  31,  1923.  In  order  to  obtain  the  results  shown  on  this  statement  it  was 
necessary  to  estimate  Federal  income  taxes  payable,  inasmuch  as  final  settlement 
has  not  been  made  with  the  Internal  Revenue  Department.  With  the  exception 
of  this  one  item,  however,  the  figures  as  compiled  represent  the  status  of  the  con- 
tractor's books  as  of  October  31,  1923. 

We  also  attach  hereto,  marked  "Exhibit  27",  tables  showing  the  distribution 
of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company's  departmental  expenses  which  were 
distributed  in  part  as  charges  to  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company.  The  construc- 
tion contracts  were  charged  with  a  pro  rata  share  of  the  general  office  expenses  of 
the  construction  department  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  k  Company  in  the  ratio 
of  the  direct  salary  payments  of  persons  employed  on  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  & 
Company  and  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  projects.  The  operating  depart- 
ment expenses  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  were  distributed  between 
E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  and  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  in  the 
ratio  of  direct  salary  and  labor  cost 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3327 

The  total  charges  made  by  E.  I.  du  Pout  de  Nemours  &  Company  to  Du  Pont 
Engineering  Company  for  the  use  of  its  technical  departments  are  as  follows: 

Engineering  department $161,  830.  02 

Smokeless  powder  operating  department 106,  652.  15 

High  explosives  operating  department 48,  677.  97 

Purchasing  department 12,  794.  08 

Traffic  department 8,  688.  90 

Total 338,  643.  12 

Of  the  above  a7nount  the  United  States  disallowed  the  sum  of  $126,071.30  on 
the  assumption  that  under  the  terms  of  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  contracts 
it  was  not  entitled  to  rembursement  for  departmental  expenses  of  E.  I.  du  Pont 
de  Nemours  &  Company  other  than  salaries  and  traveling  expenses.  The  above 
disallowances,  subdivided  as  to  contracts,  are  as  follows: 

Old  Hickory  construction $87,  991.  02 

Old  Hickory  operation 9,  147.  93 

Penniman  construction 19,  755.  78 

Penniman  operation 4,  654.  53 

Tullvtown 1,  099.  68 

Seven  Pines 768.  78 

Ives 2,653.  58 

The  items  still  in  dispute  between  the  contractor  and  the  War  Department  are 
as  follows: 

Part  of  Mason  &  Hanger  fee $179,  259.  79 

Departmental  charges  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company 126,  071.  30 

Profit  adjustments 52,  554.  29 

Miscellaneous  expenditures 19,  545.  58 

Total 377,430.  96 

Respectfulh'  submitted. 

W.  S.  Gregg,  of  Counsel. 
December  4,  1923. 


Exhibit  No.   1174  ^ 

du  pont  engineering  company the   honorable,  the  attorney  general 

washington,  d.  c. war  transactions  section,  department  of  justice 

Penniman. — Under  contract  G 1320-732 A,  dated  December  31,  1917,  the  com- 
pany were  to  be  paid,  in  addition  to  the  cost  of  construction  and  operation  of  the 
plant,  10%  of  the  cost  of  construction  and  10%  of  the  cost  of  loading  difTerene 
sizes  of  shells  to  a  maximum  of  1,482,500  shells.  In  excess  of  such  quantity  there 
was  to  be  paid  10%  of  established  base  cost  plus  50%  of  any  saving  below  the 
base  cost.  The  new  contract  under  date  of  April  12,  1918,  provided  as  compensa- 
tion $1.00  nominal  profit  on  construction  plus  14%  of  the  cost  of  operation. 
Any  profit  accruing  under  the  contract  of  December  31,  1917,  was  voluntarily 
waived  and  applied  as  an  advance  against  the  new  contract. 

Tullytown.— This  contract,  P3509-643E,  dated  March  2,  1918,  provided  for 
reimbursement  of  all  costs  of  operation  plus  14%  as  compensation. 

Seven  Pines. — This  contract,  P9050-960E,  dated  June  1,  1918,  covered  reim- 
bursement of  all  costs  of  operation  plus  14%  as  compensation. 

Ives.— This  contract,  P15271-1433E,  dated  October  2,  1918,  provided  that  the 
United  States  would  bear  all  costs  of  construction  and  in  addition  pay  a  specified 
price  per  pound,  subject  to  adjustment,  of  all  T.  N.  T.  manufactured.  A  nominal 
profit  of  $1.00  was  to  be  paid  for  the  construction  of  the  plant.  Prior  to  the 
Armistice  construction  of  foundations  for  the  buildings  had  only  begun. 

Tlie  plants  were  turned  over  to  the  Government:  Old  Hickorv  on  April  17,  1919; 
Penniman  on  Feb.  19,  1919;  Tullytown  on  Feb.  28,  1919;  Seven  Pines  on  Feb.  19, 
1919;  Ives  on  April  16,  1919. 

I  Exhibits  referred  to  in  "  Exhibit  No.  1174"  are  appended  to  original  report  on  file  in  the  Department 
of  Justice. 


3328  MUNITION'S    INDUSTRY 

Previous  examinations 

Various  charges  were  made  from  time  to  time  that  there  were  serious  irregu- 
larities, great  waste  and  extravagance  in  expenditure  of  Government  funds.  Mr. 
G.  H.  Dorr,  assistant  director  of  munitions,  in  October  1919,  issued  instructions  to 
the  ordnance  district  chief  at  Philadelpliia,  Pa.,  to  continue  sucli  auditing  and 
accounting  as  may  be  necessary  in  the  interests  of  the  Government.  The  ordnance 
district  chief  in  turn  authorized  the  cost-accounting  bi-anch  to  proceed  with  the 
audit.  A  great  deal  of  auditing  up  to  this  time  had  already  been  performed,  but 
obviously  a  reaudit  was  begun.  This  reaudit  was  in  charge  of  various  individuals 
and  was  not  completed  until  June  1922,  and  the  result  thereof  summarized  as  of 
May  31,  1922,  by  an  auditor  of  the  War  Department.  It  is  quite  apparent  that 
during  the  course  of  the  reaudit,  considerable  trouble  arose  due  to  a  lack  of  ade- 
quate legal  interpretation  of  certain  provisions  in  the  contracts.  Major  R.  R. 
Farr  was  appointed  a  special  representative  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  ox  War  on 
July  16,  1921,  to  bring  the  reaudit  of  all  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  claims 
to  a  satisfactory  conclusion.  Major  Farr  (at  present  a  special  assistant  to  the 
Attorney  General  in  the  War  Transactions  Section)  proceeded  to  issue  legal 
opinions  of  matters  submitted  to  him  for  tlie  guidance  of  the  various  Government 
auditors  engaged  upon  the  work. 

Charges  of  irregularities  were  brought  to  the  attention  of  the  joint  board  of 
survey  of  the  War  Department  and  Department  of  Justice,  who  submitted  the 
matter  for  further  investigation  to  a  subcommittee.  This  subcommittee  con- 
sisted of  Hon.  Dwight  F.  Davis,  Assistant  Secretary  of  War,  chairman,  Major 
General  C.  C.  Williams,  chief  of  ordnance,  and  Henry  W.  Anderson,  special 
assistant  to  the  Attorney  General,  representing  the  Department  of  Justice.  A 
hearing  war  had  before  this  subcommittee  in  executive  session  on  May  10  and 
May  11,  1923,  at  which  time  several  persons  who  had  participated  in  the  audit  of 
the  books  of  the  contractor  were  present  and  gave  testimony.  The  record  of 
testimony  accompanies  the  file. 

On  December  10,  1923,  the  subcommittee  issued  their  report  to  the  joint  board 
of  survey,  running  as  follows: 

"(a)  Upon  the  present  state  of  the  I'ecord,  it  is  not  believed  that  a  complete 
reaudit  of  the  accounts — which  would  be  very  expensive  and  require  at  least  1 
year  of  time — is  justified,  but  there  are  certain  items  shown  upon  the  record  as 
to  which  there  should  be  further  investigation  and  additional  audit,  if  the  same 
be  required. 

"  (6)  In  view  of  the  fact  that  certain  aspects  of  this  matter  are  now  before  the 
Department  of  Justice  and  under  investigation  and  that  the  questions  of  law 
which  have  been  presented  as  to  certain  allowances  made  under  the  contract 
are  proper  for  a  decision  of  that  Department,  it  is  believed  that  this  entire  matter, 
including  all  files  and  documents,  should  be  referred  to  the  Department  of  Justice 
for  such  additional  investigation  as  that  Department  may  deem  judicious  and 
for  such  action  thereon  as  may  be  necessar}^  to  protect  the  rights  of  the  United 
States." 

Thereafter,  Mr.  R.  H.  WQliams,  on  December  17,  1923,  and  Mr.  Wm.  L. 
Frierson,  on  January  24,  1924,  were  appointed  special  assistants  to  the  Attorney 
General  and  were  assigned  this  case. 

Scope  of  examination 

It  was  an  undertaking  to  determine  the  balance  due  from  the  Du  Pont 
Engineering  Company  at  August  31,  1924,  qualified,  however  in  that  accountants 
of  this  unit  accepted  as  a  base  the  balances  as  shown  on  the  books  of  the  Du  Pont 
Engineering  Company  as  of  May  31,  1922.  These  balances  of  May  31,  1922, 
were  reviewed  by  the  then  War  Department  examiner,  W.  G.  Kileen,  and  were 
made  the  subject  matter  of  a  report.  It  further  included  the  determining  of  the 
amounts  expended  in  respect  of  extra  compensation  paid  to  employees  for  meri- 
torious service  on  construction  of  the  plants,  and  of  extra  compensation  paid  to 
salaried  employees  and  others  on  discharge.  In  addition,  expenditures  disallowed 
by  War  Department  and  eliminated  from  charges  against  United  States  Govern- 
ment were  examined. 

The  report  of  May  31,  1922,  made  by  the  auditors  for  the  War  Department, 
was  brought  down  by  your  examiners  to  August  31,  1924.  All  charges  and 
credits  appearing  on  the  books  of  the  Company  between  these  dates  were  audited 
by  this  section. 

It  should  be  ol)served  that  a  reaudit  of  the  whole  of  the  accounts  was  not 
undertaken  by  this  unit. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTKY  3329 

Accounting  records 

Separate  and  distinct  records  were  kept  for  each  project,  both  in  respect  of 
construction  and  operation,  but  no  provision  was  made  for  keeping  separately 
the  cost  of  each  unit  of  the  respective  projects.  General  ledgers  with  supporting 
books  of  original  entry  are  operated  for  each  project,  in  addition  to  a  general 
ledger  and  supporting  records  for  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company.  Access 
was  obtained  by  your  examiners  to  all  desired  records  with  the  exception  that 
certain  cancelled  checks  specified  hereafter  could  not  be  located. 

It  was  apparent  that  no  attempt  was  ever  made  by  the  company  or  by  the 
War  Department  to  reconcile  the  finance  records  of  the  Government  with  the 
books  of  the  company.  Certain  expenditures  placed  on  public  vouchers  were 
reimbursed  or  recouped  against  advances.  In  exhibit  B  and  schedule  no.  1  of 
exhibit  A  your  examiners  have  shown  the  status  of  reimbursements  and  recoup- 
ments against  advances.  There  are  expenditures  aggregating  $35,323,732.84  yet 
to  be  put  through  the  finance  division  for  which  no  public  vouchers  have  ever 
been  issued.  The  advances  were  originally  placed  on  public  vouchers,  excepting 
the  advances  by  way  of  profit  under  the  original  Old  Hickory  and  Penniman 
contracts  waived  by  the  company.  Furthermore,  an  expenditure  originally  re- 
imbursed or  recouped,  as  shown  by  public  vouchers,  may  subsequently  have  been 
suspended  in  whole  or  in  part  or  a  proportion  absorbed  by  the  Du  Pont  Engineer- 
ing Company.  The  amounts,  therefore,  shown  as  reimbursements  or  recoupments 
are  merely  now  a  reduction  of  approved  expenditures. 

Balance  sheet 

The  net  liabilitv  to  the  United  States  Government,  as  shown  on  the  books  of 
the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  as  of  August  31,  1924,  is  $970,286.30  (exhibit 
A).  This  conclusion  is  predicated  upon  no  disallowance  by  the  Government  of 
any  suspended  items  except  those  agreed  to  by  the  company  and  as  shown  in 
exhibit  E.  In  other  words,  there  is  an  undisputed  balance  of  $970,286.30  due 
to  the  United  States  Government  at  August  31,  1924,  subject  to  adjustment  for 
interest  on  bank  balances  yet  to  be  credited. 

Details  of  the  cash  receipts  and  disbursements  from  the  inception  of  the  work 
to  August  31,  1924,  will  be  found  in  exhibit  B  and  accompanying  schedules. 
Exhibit  B  shows  total  net  receipts  of  $130,483,358.19  and  total  disbursements  of 
$129,513,071.89  for  all  projects,  an  excess  of  receipts  over  disbursements  of 
$970,286.30,  an  amount,  therefore,  available  to  meet  the  undisputed  liabilitj^, 
subject  to  adjustment,  above  referred  to. 

It  will  be  observed  by  reference  to  exhibit  A  that  a  dividend  of  $400,000.00  was 
paid  to  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company,  the  parent  organization,  on 
December  31,  1919  ($143,772.46  in  excess  of  net  profit).  The  amount,  however 
set  aside  as  a  reserve  for  Federal  taxes  is  obviously  in  excess  of  requirements. 

Profit  and  loss 

Details  of  the  profit  and  loss  will  be  found  in  exhibit  C.  The  profit  derived  from 
the  construction  and  operation  of  Government  plants,  exclusive  of  any  adjustment 
affecting  operation  profits  in  respect  of  items  suspended  by  the  War  Department 
and  never  accepted  by  the  company,  is  $2,723,577.68.  The  gross  income  after 
adding  interest  on  bank  balances 'of  $11,687.47  is  $2,735,265.15.  From  the 
latter  figure  is  deducted  expenditures  disallowed  by  the  War  Department  and 
not  now  charged  against  the  Government  but  absorbed  wholly  by  the  du  Pont 
Engineering  Company  of  $103,405.87,  details  of  which  appear  in  exhibit  E,  as 
well  as  miscellaneous  expenses  of  $56,114.85,  not  charged  to  the  Government, 
a  total,  therefore,  of  $159,520.72.  The  net  profit  before  deduction  of  Federal 
taxes  is  $2,575,744.43.  Federal  taxes  of  $2,319,516.89  charged  thereto,  of  which 
$1,490,013.19  has  been  paid  and  the  balance  of  $829,503.70  reserved,  is  in  excess 
of  requirements.  The  net  profit  after  deduction  of  the  amount  for  Federal  taxes 
is  $256,227.54. 

Expenses  Suspended  by  War  Department 

Details  of  the  suspended  items  to  August  31,  1924,  appear  in  exhibit  D  and 
accompanying  schedules.  These  items  were  disallowed  on  appeal  to  the  Assistant 
Secretary  of  War  and  have  never  been  accepted  by  the  company  but  charged 
against  the  various  contracts.  Certain  items  previously  disallowed  by  the  War 
Department  and  either  allowed  in  whole  or  part  on  appeal  to  the  Assistant 
Secretary  of  War  operate  either  as  an  increase  or  a  decrease  to  the  suspended 
items,  depending  on  whether  or  not  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  absorbed 


3330  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

such  expenses  (exhibit  E).  No  dispute  arises  as  to  the  items  allowed  on  appeal, 
but  clearing  entries  have  not  yet  been  made  on  the  books  of  the  company  pending 
a  settlement  of  the  contracts.  The  items  in  suspense  are  discussed  in  the  para- 
graphs that  follow. 

Departmental  charges  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company,  other  than  salaries 
and  traveling  expenses,  $126,071.30  {exhibit  D). — The  War  Department  disallowed 
all  departmental  charges  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company,  other  than 
salaries  and  traveling  expenses,  on  the  ground  that  the  contracts  limited  such 
overhead  to  salaries  and  traveling  expenses.  Details  of  the  departmental 
charges  claimed  appear  in  schedules  nos.  1  to  5  of  exhibit  D,  together  with  the 
apportionment  thereof  to  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  and  the  various 
Government  projects  constructed  and  operated  by  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Com- 
pany. The  basis  of  distribution  is  (1)  on  direct  salary  and  (2)  on  direct  salary 
and  labor  cost. 

Included  in  this  item  of  $126,071.30  there  is  shown  a  charge  of  the  loss  from 
sale  of  furniture  purchased  from  the  City  Club,  $11,822.22.  This  is  not  correct. 
The  whole  amount  should  not  have  been  charged  against  Old  Hickory  construc- 
tion.    It  is  now  conceded  that  the  charges  should  be  distributed  as  follows: 

Against  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company $7,  238.  27 

Against  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  Construction: 

Old  Hickory $3,  591.  12 

Penniman 852.  50 

Ives 140.  33 

4,  583.  95 


11,822.22 

Whether  or  not  the  departmental  charges  of  $126,071.30  are  allowed,  there 
must  be  an  adjustment  operating  to  effect  the  distribution  in  the  manner  recited 
above.  If  the  expenses  are  not  chargeable,  the  amount  in  suspense  is  $125,071.30 
(exhibit  D)  from  which  should  be  deducted  $2,822.69  (exhibit  D)  on  account  of 
profit  adjustments,  a  total,  therefore,  of  $123,248.61. 

Old  Hickory  contract  runs — Construction,  article  II: 

"The  United  States  shall  reimburse  the  contractor  for  all  costs  and  expenses  of 
every  character  and  description,  incurred  or  made  in  connection  with  the  con- 
struction and  equipment  of  the  plant  or  any  part  thereof,  including  the  pro  rata 
share  properly  attributable  to  the  construction  work  under  this  contract  (a)  of  the 
expense  of  maintaining  the  contractor's  offices  at  Wilmington,  Delaware,  or  else- 
where, and  (6)  of  the  salaries  and  traveling  expenses  of  all  officials  and  employes 
of  the  contractor  and  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company." 

Operation,  article  IV: 

"The  United  States  shall  bear  all  costs  and  expenditures  of  every  character  and 
description,  incurred  or  made  in  connection  with  the  operation  of  the  plant,  or 
any  part  thereof,  including  the  cost  of  labor,  materials  and  their  conversion, 
repairs,  power,  transportation,  general  work  of,  plant  superintendence,  main- 
tenance of  guards,  and  also  the  pro  rata  share  properly  attributable  to  the  opera- 
tion of  the  plant,  or  any  part  thereof  (1)  of  the  cost  of  maintaining  the  contrac- 
tor's offices  at  Wilmington,  Delaware,  or  elsewhere,  and  (2)  of  the  salaries  and 
traveling  expenses  of  all  officials  and  employes  of  the  contractor  and  of  E.  I.  du 
Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company." 

If  the  expenses  are  held  to  be  chargeable  against  the  contract,  and  adjustment 
of  $7,238.27  becomes  necessary,  or,  if  disallowed,  the  corrected  amount  is  $123,- 
248.61. 

Extra  compensation,  $1,628.57  {exhibit  D). — This  item  represents  extra  com- 
pensation paid  to  employees  transferred  to  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company 
at  reduced  salaries,  details  of  which  appear  in  schedule  no.  6  of  exhibit  D.  The 
total  amount  paid  was  $4,677.98  of  which  $3,049.41  was  absorbed  by  the  Du 
Pont  Engineering  Company,  leaving  a  net  charge  of  $1,628.57.  This  is  the 
difference  between  the  old  salary  and  the  new  salary  for  a  period  of  one  month. 
The  correct  amount,  however,  is  $2,606.68,  a  difference  of  $978.11,  which  if 
adjusted  would  result  in  a  corresponding  reduction  in  the  amount  to  be  absorbed 
by  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company.  The  company,  however,  concede  that 
the  expense  should  be  wholly  borne  by  them  and  not  charged  against  the  Govern- 
ment, and  for  this  reason  it  is  unnecessary  to  make  the  adjustment  above  referred 
to.     The  $1,628.57  is,  therefore,  a  cost  to  be  charged  to  the  company. 

Return  transportation,  wage-roll  employes,  $3,867.53  {exhibit  D) . — This  repre- 
sents 50%  of  the  expenditures  made  on  accoimt  of  certain  return  transportation 
for  wage-roll  employes  ($7,735.06)  disallowed  by  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War, 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3331 

which  disposition  was  accepted  bj'  the  contractor.  While  we  have  disposed  of 
this  item  pursuant  to  this  compromise  agreement  between  the  contractor  and  the 
Assistant  Secretary  of  War,  it  is  respectfully  submitted  in  passing  that  your 
examiners'  opinion  is  that  either  all  of  the  amount  was  allowable  under  the 
contract  or  none  of  it. 

Administrative  expenses,  $13,202.97  {exhibit  D). — The  composition  of  this  item 
is  as  follows: 

Salaries: 

Wm.  Coyne $8,  545.  73 

J.  B.  Broad  and  secretary 4,  060.  57 

— —  $12,  606.  30 

Rent,  Government  claims  division 500.  93 

Traveling,  officials  on  claims 95.  74 

13,  202.  97 

These  expenses  formed  part  of  the  administrative  expenses  prorated  to  the 
construction  and  operation  projects  on  the  basis  of  pay  rolls  from  February  28, 
1919  to  December  31,  1921.  They  were  disallowed  by  the  War  Department  on 
the  ground  that  they  were  incurred  in  preparing  data  for  and  appearing  before 
the  claims  board.  This  appears  to  be  in  accordance  with  rulings  of  such  board, 
and  in  the  parent  company  settlements,  it  is  understood,  expenses  of  this  nature 
were  either  disallowed  or  withdrawn. 

Salaries  and  expenses  of  officials  and  employes,  $2,943.05  (exhibit  D.) — The 
items  under  this  group  are  as  follows: 

^Q  1  Q  ■pipe  * 

H.  G.  Haskell $1,  035.  00 

Engineering  department  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours 

&  Company 621.  57 

$1,  656.  57 

Traveling  expenses: 

H.  G.  Haskell 155.  23 

W.  S.  Gregg 999.89 

John  Lee  Pratt 20.  72 

1,  175.  84 

Telegraph,  telephone,  etc 110.  64 

2,  943.  05 

These  expenses  were  also  incurred  in  preparing  data  for  and  appearing  before 
the  claims  board. 

Freight  between  Nashville,  Tennessee,  and  Jacksonville,  Tennessee,  50%, 
$55,862.28  {exhibit  Z)).— The  Old  Hickory  contract,  dated  March  23,  1918, 
provides  in  article  IV: 

"The  United  States  shall  pay  to  the  contractor  three  and  one-half  (3)^)  cents 
per  pound  for  each  and  every  pound  of  powder  delivered  and  accepted  under  the 
contract,  and  in  addition  thereto,  one-half  of  the  difference  if  any  between  the 
price  per  pound  to  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  para- 
graphs {d)  and  (e)  of  this  article,  and  the  actual  cost  per  pound,  as  ascertained 
under  paragraph  (o)  of  this  article,  where  such  actual  cost  is  less  than  the  price 
so  determined." 

The  base  price  of  44}^  cents  per  pound  of  powder  was  predicated  upon  basic 
rates  of  five  component  materials  f .  o.  b.  Nashville,  and  if  the  cost  of  such  materials 
shall  so  change  as  to  decrease  or  increase  the  actual  cost  of  the  powder,  then  the 
basic  prices  shall  be  decreased  or  increased  accordingly. 

The  War  Department  auditors  in  determining  the  cost  of  powder  included 
freight  between  Nashville,  Tennessee,  and  Jacksonville,  Tennessee,  and  eliminated 
from  the  basic  prices  for  the  five  component  materials  such  freight  on  the  found 
that  the  contract  stated  the  basic  prices  to  be  f.o.b.  Nashville. 

At  the  time  the  contract  was  signed,  the  spur  track  running  between  Nashville, 
Tennessee,  to  where  the  plant  was  located  at  Jacksonville,  Tennessee,  had  not 
been  constructed,  which  no  doubt  accounts  for  the  prices  of  the  five  component 
materials  being  specified  f.  o.  b.  Nashville.  Even  though  the  basic  prices  are 
f.  o.  b.  Nashville,  it  is  illogical  to  include  freight  between  Nashville,  Tennessee, 
and  Jacksonville,  Tennessee,  in  the  cost  and  exclude  it  from  the  basic  prices  in 
taking  the  difference  between  the  two  on  which  the  company  had  an  equity  of 
50  percent  in  the  saving.  Freight  to  the  plant  is  beyond  question  part  of  the 
cost,  and  it  is  necessary  to  adjust  the  basic  prices  to  conform. 


3332 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


Your  examiners  are  of  the  opinion  that  the  auditors  for  the  War  Department 
are  clearly  in  error  in  eliminating  the  freight  between  Nashville,  Tennessee, 
and  Jacksonville,  Tennessee,  from  the  basic  prices.  The  freight  amounts  to 
$111,724.55,  the  equity  of  the  company  being  50  percent  thereof,  or  $55,862.28. 
Reference  is  made  to  schedule  no.  2  of  exhibit  B  showing  the  total  profits  derived 
from  one-half  saving  between  adjusted  base  prices  of  materials  over  actual  cost 
per  pound  of  powder,  which  includes  the  $55,862.28  referred  to,  amounting  to 
$770,452.99. 

Miscellaneous,  $254-88  {exhibit  D). — These  consist  of  miscellaneous  expenses, 
principally  hotel  expenses,  which  it  is  now  conceded  will  be  borne  by  the  Du  Pont 
Engineering  Company. 

Plant  pMication,  $1,652.03  {exhibit  D). — Charges  in  respect  of  plant  publica- 
tion were  at  one  time  suspended  by  War  Department  auditors  and  the  cost 
absorbed  by  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company.  Subsequent  thereto  this 
expense  was  allowed  in  full  by  a  decision  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War.  The 
cost,  therefore,  now  is  a  proper  charge  against  the  Government  and  operates  as 
a  reduction  of  items  to  be  disallowed.  The  profit  of  14  percent  on  this  amount 
now  accruing  to  the  company  is  $231.29. 

Return  transportation,  salaried  employes,  $1,326.65  {exhibit  D). — This  represents 
50%  of  the  expenditures  for  certain  return  transportation  of  salaried  em- 
ployees ($2,653.29),  the  whole  amount  of  which  had  previously  been  absorbed  by 
the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company.  Subsequently  the  Assistant  Secretary  of 
War  compromised  with  the  contractor  by  offering  to  allow  50%  of  the  ex- 
penditures. We  have  disposed  of  this  item  pursuant  to  the  compromise,  but, 
again,  it  is  submitted  that  either  the  whole  of  the  amount  is  allowable  under  the 
contract  or  none  of  it. 

Profit  adjustments,  $3,053.98  {exhibit  D). — These  items  have  already  been  dis- 
cussed, $2,822.69  being  applicable  to  departmental  charges  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 
Nemours  &  Company,  other  than  salaries  and  traveling  expenses  jand  $231.29  to 
plant  publication. 

Recommendations — Suspended  items. — The  following  is  a  summary  of  the  items 
suspended  by  the  War  Department,  giving  effect  to  your  examiners'  interpre- 
tations: 


Total 

Disallow 

Allow 

Departmental  expenses  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company, 

$126,  071.  30 

1,  628.  57 
3,  867.  53 

13,  202. 97 
2. 943.  05 

55,  862.  28 
254. 88 

$7,  2.38.  27 

1,  628. 57 
3,  867.  53 

13,  202. 97 

2,  943.  05 

$118, 833.  03 

Extra  compfinsation  to  employes  transferred  to  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 

55, 862.  28 

254. 88 

203, 830.  58 

29, 135. 27 

174,  695.  31 

Less: 

1,  652.  03 

1,  326. 65 

231. 29 

2, 822.  69 

1,  652. 03 

1,  326.  65 

231.  29 

Departmental  charges  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company, 

2,822.69 

6,  032.  66 

3,209.97 

2,822.69 

Net 

197, 797. 92 

25, 925. 30 

171, 872. 62 

The  above  amount  disallowed  of  $25,925.30  should,  therefore,  be  added  to  the 
amount  due  to  the  United  States  Government.  On  the  other  hand,  if  it  be 
decided  by  a  legal  interpretation  of  the  contracts  that  the  company  are  not 
entitled  to  any  departmental  expenses  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company, 
other  than  salaries  and  traveling  expenses,  the  amount  to  be  disallowed  would 
necessitate  an  increase  of  $116,010.34  to  the  foregoing  amount  of  $25,925.30,  or 
a  total  of  $141,935.64. 

Extra  compensation  for  meritorious  service,  $199,650.00  {exhibit  F) 

Details  of  extra  compensation  paid  to  employes  on  construction  of  plants  for 
the  United  States  Government  amounting  to  $199,650.00  will  be  found  in  exhibit 
F  and  accompanying  schedule. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTEY  3333 

The  construction  contracts  all  contain  substantially  the  following  provisions: 

"In  order  that  the  contractor  may  expedite  the  work  of  construction,  it  may, 

in  its  discretion,  from  time  to  time,  pay  extra  compensation  for  materials  or 

services,   subject,   however,  to  the  approval  of  the  contractinja;  officer,   which 

extra  compensation  shall  be  charged  to  the  cost  of  construction." 

The  extra  compensation  in  question  was  paid  on  August  1,  1919,  and  the  con- 
sent of  the  contracting  officer,  Lt.  Col.  R.  H.  Hawkins,  obtained  prior  to  such 
payment.  The  "extra  compensation  for  materials  or  services"  does  not,  it  is 
submitted,  extend  to  paying  a  bonus  to  employes  for  meritorious  services  approxi- 
mately seven  months  after  the  suspension  of  the  contract. 

Extra  compensation  to  einployes  on  discharge,  $396,580.06 

Reference  is  made  to  exhibit  G  and  accompanying  schedules  showing  the 
extra  corajiensation  paid  to  employes,  principally  salaried  employes,  on  discharge, 
amounting  to  $441,002.66  (exhibit  G).  This  covers  one  to  two  months'  salary 
or  pay,  depending  on  the  length  of  service  of  the  employes  with  the  Du  Pont 
Engineering  Company  and  the  parent  organization,  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  & 
Company.  The  payment  of  this  extra  compensation  was  authorized  by  Con- 
tracting Officer  Lt.  Col.  R.  H.  Hawkins  on  July  29,  1919,  and  paid,  with  the 
exception  of  $4,272.20,  prior  thereto.  Subsequently,  on  November  19,  1921, 
the  \Var  Department  claims  board  limited  this  extra  compensation  to  a  period 
of  30  days,  any  excess  over  that  period  to  be  borne  by  the  contractor,  who  agreed 
to  this  nding.  It  will  be  seen  that  the  amount  absorbed  by  the  Du  Pont  Engi- 
neering Company  is  $44,422.60  (exhibit  E),  but  the  corrected  figure  reducing  the 
extra  compensation  to  one  month  is  $43,873.93.  The  months  in  which  the  total 
extra  compensation  was  paid  are  as  follows: 

1918: 

November $27,  111.  42 

December 187,  007.  44 

1919: 

January 76,  338.  59 

Februarv 77,  457.  70 

March 22,  184.  76 

April 38,  602.  05 

Mav 7,245.02 

June 603.  48 

Julv 180.  00 

Subsequent  thereto 4,  272.  20 

Total 441,  002.  66 

The  contractor  justifies  the  payment  of  extra  compensation  on  discharge 
because  the  contracts  provided  that  all  costs  and  expenses  of  every  character 
and  description  were  to  be  borne  l:)y  the  United  States. 

Obviously  a  payment  of  extra  compensation  on  discharge  does  not  fall  within 
this  provision.  It  might  be  here  emphasized  that  the  contractor  is  claiming 
$22,679.15,  representing  one  month's  extra  compensation  paid  to  employes  of 
Mason  &  Hanger  Company,  the  subcontractors  for  part  of  the  work  at  Old 
Hickory,  although  this  subcontractor  received  a  fee  of  $1,075,558.79.  From  an 
examination  of  the  records  it  would  appear  that  this  amount  did  not  carry  5% 
on  the  "extra  compensation"  paid. 

It  is  respectfully  recommended  that  the  amount  now  charged  to  the  Govern- 
ment of  $396,580.06,  and  made  up  as  follows,  be  disallowed: 

Total  extra  compensation  paid  on  discharge,  per  exhibit  G $441,  002.  66 

Less: 

Excess  of  30  days  absorbed  by  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company.       43,  873.  93 


397,  128.  73 
Fart  of  30  days'  extra  compensation  borne  by  Du  Pont  Engi- 
neering Company 548.  67 


396,  580.  06 

It  required  extensive  work  for  your  examiners  to  determine  the  amount  of 
extra  compensation  paid  on.  discharge.  No  proper  lists  had  ever  been  prepared 
by  War  Department  auditors  or  by  tlie  company,  nor  was  there  any  control  to 
work  to.     The  extra  compensation  was  merged  and  reflected  in  regular  salaries 


3334  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

and  charged  to  numerous  accounts  on  the  construction  and  operation  ledgers. 
Certain  cancelled  checks  could  not  be  produced,  particvilarly  for  extra  compen- 
sation paid  through  Mason  &  Hanger  Company  at  Old  Hickory.  In  such  cases, 
however,  receipts  were  produced  or  other  satisfactory  evidence  of  the  payment 
produced.  On  the  whole  the  preservation  of  records  pertaining  to  the  work  is 
remarkably  good. 

Outward  transportation  and  moving  expenses,  estimated 

An  estimate  of  $307,396.82  was  made  by  the  contractor  and  given  to  Messrs. 
Williams  &  Frierson,  special  assistants  to  the  Attorney  General,  as  the  amount 
of  expenditures  made  by  the  contractor  involved  under  this  subheading,  as  of 
February  28,  1919.  The  program  of  our  examination  did  not  include  the  veri- 
fication of  this  amount  on  the  books  of  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  at 
Wilmington.  When  it  was  found  that  the  verification  of  outward  transportation 
and  incidental  moving  expenses  of  salary  and  wage-roll  employes  upon  discharge 
and  the  verification  of  the  inward  transportation  and  incidental  moving  expenses 
of  employes  involved  an  effort  that  would  require  the  services  of  a  corps  of 
accoiuitants  over  a  period  of  several  months,  it  was  directed  that  this  verifica- 
tion be  deferred.  Its  requirement  by  the  division  of  the  Government  which  will 
be  called  upon  to  effect  a  settlement  of  these  contracts  depends  upon  the  de- 
termination, legally,  of  the  right  of  the  contractor  to  have  been  reimbursed  for 
such  expenditures  under  the  contracts. 

The  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  giving  effect  to  certain  legal  interpreta- 
tions and  the  contention  of  your  accountants  outlined  in  the  pages  which  have 
gone  before,  are  indebted  to  the  United  States  as  of  August  31,  1924,  in  the  sum 
of  $1,592,441.66,  made  up  as  follows: 

(Exhibit  A:)  Balance  per  admission  of  contractor $970,  286.  30 

(Exhibit  F:)   Expenditures  by   Du   Pont  Engineering  Company 

for  extra  compensation  to  employes  for  meritorious  service 199,  650.  00 

(Page  20:)   Expenditures  by  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company 

for  extra  compensation  to  employes  on  discharge 396,  580.  06 

(Page  18:)   Suspended  items 25,  925.  30 

Total 1,592,441.66 

Giving  effect  to  the  contention  of  the  War  Department  that  the  Du  Pont 
Engineering  Company  are  not  entitled  to  reimbursement  for  (a)  departmental 
expenses  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company,  other  than  salaries  and 
traveling  expenses,  and  (b)  freight  between  Nashville,  Tennessee^  and  Jackson- 
ville, Tennessee  (page  17),  which  when  put  in  effect  means  that  the  accountants 
of  this  unit  are  not  correct  in  their  conclusion  that  the  Du  Pont  Engineering 
Company  are  entitled  to  these  reimbursements,  then  the  Du  Pont  Engineering 
Company  are  indebted  to  the  United  States  in  the  amount  of  $1,764,314.28. 
These  amounts  mentioned  as  conclusions  are,  of  course,  subject  to  adjustment 
for  interest  on  bank  balances  at  the  date  of  the  settlement. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3335 


s    ^     « 


^^  00 

»o 

00         "^ 

IN 

r^ 

t^  ^ 

s 

CO 

CO 

[^ 

00   M* 

sa 

^     CO     t^ 

^ 

00  SS 

o 

!M          t^ 

o 

t^ 

t^  lO 

IN 

Ol 

at 

rf      10 

0 

»0     IN     01 

'^ 

ci  CD 

CO 

00  o  ^ 

CO 

r^ 

t^  r^ 

«d 

CO 

CO 

■*' 

CO     o> 

f? 

°^  ^   2; 

(^ 

IMOO 

t^ 

t^ 

r^  cs 

0 

"^    1 

t^ 

s    ^    ™ 

O  05 

CO 

.— i           -^ 

o 

0  t^ 

00 

en 

en 

en 

t^     00 

to 

00    Oi    cn 

*'' 

"a 

^05^ 

Tj*" 

o      ^ 

lo" 

"O" 

■o-o" 

0 

0 

o" 

0 

IC   tc 

»D 

r-.-   0    o" 

oi" 

CO  CO 

r^<r^ 

'^ 

rp  !-- 

uo 

I^      00 

CO 

00     — I     >o 

o 

CO  t^ 

o^ 

K    S 

CQ 

■^ 

TUtO 

-H 

CO 

co 

rJH      t^ 

01 

t^     CO 

-— ' 

e 

»o  t^ 

CO 

oT 

o 

s" 

CO"(N 

OJ 

s" 

2 

^ 

■^  00 

CM 

CO 

C4 

IN 

IN 

CO 

««■ 

- 

O  00 
002 

GO 

00  O  lO 

CO 

(N 

«  t^ 

Oi 

>o 

10 

CO 

0     CO 

~m 

CO     10     CD 

OS 

1^ 

Oi 

05  O  CO 

CO 

IN 

IN-I 

CO 

Tt* 

■* 

00 

t^     CD 

CO 

CO    -^    cc 

O  ci 

crJ  O 

ci  O  oi 

Cji 

c4 

c<i  •*■ 

CD 

00 

00 

^ 

CO     IN 

oi  ' 

22    =S    ;::; 

^ 

3o 

oo-^ 

>ra 

10  10 

10 

"O 

0 

CO    a> 

CJi     0    0 

o  t^ 

!>• 

o 

00 

ooco 

C^ 

■^ 

tt 

I-     IN 

0 

c^     -^     ^ 

'. 

o  T-T 

^ 

w  O^^jT 

to" 

lO" 

10"  0 

CD 

^ 

^ 

r-T   00" 

CD 

oo"      rH 

Oi 

CN 

CS  CO 

(N 

IN  IN 

Tf4 

s 

mo 

« 

OI 

oi 

(N 

>S 

€^ 

» 

» 

» 

^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

«a> 

ccflc 

o  c^ 

(M 

(M  O  CO 

00 

■o 

»o  t^ 

IN 

.0 

"0" 

CO 

0  s 

00 

«>    iS    K 

CO' 

cH 

OlM 

CNOC^ 

^ 

CO  "t 

■0 

0 

0 

IN 

CO     ^ 

■^ 

CO     0     OJ 

01 

c5 1>^ 

r^  O 

t-^  O  'N 

OJ 

o 

Ooi 

dt 

IN 

c-i 

M* 

OJ 

id     IN     IN 

oi 

CI  O  'f 

CO 

t^ 

0 

CD 

■0 

CN     CD 

CO 

^      CO     10 

?j 

IN 

-^  00 

0 

-* 

•^ 

CD 

Ol 

CO     Tt<     .-1 

^. 

o^ 

-ro"ci 

^" 

CO 

CO' oo- 

<N 

TjT 

O  OS 

Oi 

Oi  CO 

co  00 

IN 

CO 

CDrH 

00 

o 

COrt 

00 

00 

00 

«»   . 

f-T 

» 

r- 

r- 

- 

^ 

^ 

HS 

o 

o  o 

o      -** 

~ 

■<J^ 

tH 

•«:J^ 

10 

10 

OS     CO 

■^ 

1010 

s 

o 

oo 

O        CO 

CO 

00 

00 

CO 

CO  00 

cs 

c5o 

o  o 

ooco 

CO 

oo 

00 

0 

t~;o 

t^ 

0 

CO 

>dt^"oo 

CO 

o 

o      »o 

>o 

10 

10 

00  ^ 

.^  "^ 

o 

O        rf^ 

■* 

t^ 

r^ 

°°  ^ 

tP 

10  t^ 

^    00 

P_i^ 

o 

o  -^ 

CO        -^ 

o 

o> 

01 

a, 

01 

IN 

—I     <N 

0 

ss*^' 

o 

O  (M 

r-       Oi 

t^ 

CO 

CO 

•^      ^ 

t^ 

IN 

CO 

*^i 

IM 

C^  lO 

CD 

t^ 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

t^ 

'"* 

1—. 

'#'■ 

Tp   --T 

csT 

c^ 

(N 

IN 

of 

of 

(N 

€^ 

pw 

r^  'Tf 

^  o 

— 1  o  ^ 

IN 

■rf  Oi 

cot^ 

0 

CO  to 

00 

cn 

r^    S 

^ 

»DCO  »0  0 

^ 

C3  Cn 

QOS 

^o 

tcoco 

00 

^co 

ooco 

•0 

— c  0 

5^ 

00 

ic  ^  0  10 

CO 

Cfi  r-^ 

h^  o 

r^  o  oi 

CO 

0-;  oi 

00  ad 

f^ 

'O^ 

CD 

CO 

^3     CO 

CO 

idco  "^'co 

oi 

c^  r- 

oo 

O  O  CO 

■<?* 

CO  C^l 

Oi 

■M* 

-rH 

.§7 

to  — ■ 

00  O 

OOOCS 

o 

to  ^ 

t^  t^ 

■^ 

S  — 

r^ 

<3=     7. 

0 

lO-T 

CO  O 

cc'io'o 

n" 

IN  of 

^'01 

M*" 

csu; 

f^- 

IN     °^ 

cf 

oT  IN  id" 

r-T 

a  t^ 

O  iC 

coo 

cO't^CO 

o<  o 

IN  t3S 

IN 

C-l 

■D  !::; 

t^ 

■* 

pg5 
P-i  1 

■r«C^ 

w 

05C0 

IN  CO 

CD 

Cl 

CO     '^ 

•—1 

C^CO 

lO 

lo" 

>o" 

-h"cO 

>o 

^ 

>o- 

10 

(^^ 

Ph 

1 

~ 

Sro 

Tt^    t^ 

r-o^oo 

"uT" 

(N- 

COO 

"co" 

0  0 

0 

o> 

(N     CO 

"io" 

CO  OOCT 

bw 

CO  t^ 

»o  o  -t^ 

o 

t^  lO 

IN  ira 

l^ 

r-^  rr< 

t^ 

CI 

1^     CO 

0 

CO  ^  ■<?'  IN 

CO 

o  ^ 

1-H  r~^ 

CO  o  o 

■*' 

■rf*  ^ 

CO  id 

^ 

0*  »d 

S 

f^ 

CO     0 

TJH 

oo>d  t^ 

c^j 

ozl 

Ooo 

OCR 

ootC 

t^  CO 

coo 

■<t* 

uooo 

t^ 

00    01 

t^ 

OS  to  00  t^ 

CO 

•i^f^ 

QO-^ 

COO'^ 

t^ 

co^ 

r-lOO 

05 

•001 

10 

0 

ID     rt 

l^ 

"  to  ffi  0 

"1 

oTio 

Tp'o 

■^^  <:q 

c^ 

CC  00 

'^•-H 

CO*" 

CD  00 

t^ 

CD 

T^       ^ 

of 

•-Ted"  000 

00 

rs 

Cft  o 

Cfl  CO  00 

-* 

ooco 

IN  CD 

» 

00 

r^ 

^ 

CO  00        10 

00  lO 

coco 

t^  lO  CO 

■CO! 

00  Oi 

IN 

IN 

I—I      iD 

CO 

to  cs 

00 

2T 

tcof 

o  ^'' 

oo" 

00 

co'c-f 

ic".-r 

[C 

00 

oo" 

o 

o 

GCCS 

0 

0 

0 

0 

«*  ^ 

i  i 

e 

S?    ' 

< 

1     1     1 

Z     1     1 
Ed     >     ' 

£>  I  1  ; 

a.    1 
3    ■ 

03 

<  \  \ 

Ed  :  1  ! 

Pill 

a 

«    1 

c    1    1    1 

0    1    1    1 
z;  1  1  1 

o 

> 

"Sec 

a  J  i 

Ill 

2  a  fl 
J:  S^ja 

C3  &   tg 
■4^  .^  c: 

8 

00      ' 

§8 

ll 

ii 

"S  >   S 
0  p   0^ 

"ft  •- 

o_=2    0 

o.£    ft 

C3   Q^      C3 

a  c 
0  0 

1.2 

i 

1 

i 

CO 
0 

ft 

1 

a 
3 

X! 

p   1 J   ■ 

Ca     1  cn     < 

H     ;  p     1 

«     !  "m 

'  0  0 

;  0  0 

ill. 

— ;  >=!  5^  == 

^3  0  Q.  u 
CI  0  0  C 

s 

0)  a>    *^ 

13 

4) 

3  .a  3 

S'OT3'T3     ca 

II    1    §s 

T3  »        11        t,  t; 

o 

dj  Oi     o  o     o 

2S      1 

Q4  04        0; 

ftft 

T3 

a 

ft 

0    -    0 

H  g  e 

§ggg  ^ 

cc      a 

D  13 

3 

m 

C3 

(72    '^    ^    i2 

<oi 

p^ 

^« 

« 

0 

CO  03 

0 

(jO^Oi^J 

i 

O  CB 


CJ   O  , 

*  a 
cc  a 


—  "^  3 

OJ-^  - 

>  3  oj 

m  5  S 


^§1 


■5  g^ 
ft  cj     .. 

Qi  Tj  a 

1-  „  o 
csS  ^ 

a.sa 

«    ra  cS    - 

2  f^€  ° 


a  £? 

-ii-a 


•2odW 
o  oi 

c-^  O 

.CO -3. 
K-a    r 

OJ  o      . 

fto  S 

&aB 

cn  IB  >- 

"^  a  §, 
"■c  » 

ft  ft 

Hi  ffl  c 

So  a 
■a  t-  cs 
5  c8  a 

•Sas 
3 1-5 

\<  II  a 

£  gS| 

»    !^'3'§ 

oi  ^K  „- 
„        .  a 

Sgo 

::g^ 


-O  ft 

a":  . 

in  IN  S 
Ed  ®  Oi 

!■§« 


3336  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Exhibit  No.  1176 

War  Transactions  Section, 

May  24,  1923. 
Major  John  G.  Booton, 

Ordnance  Department,  U.  S.  Army, 

Munitions  Building,  Washington,  D.  C. 

My  Dear  Major  Booton:  Confirming  conference  of  yesterday  regarding  the 
hearing  before  the  Joint  Committee  of  the  War  Department  and  the  Department 
of  Justice,  regarding  the  transactions  of  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  with 
reference  to  the  construction  and  operation  of  the  Old  Hickory  powder  plant  at 
Nashville,  Tenn.,  beg  to  advise  that  the  War  Transactions  Section  would  be  very 
glad  at  this  time  to  avail  itself  of  the  general  accounting  and  audit  between  the 
War  Department  and  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  both  as  to  construc- 
tion and  operation.  We  have  had  in  this  Department,  for  several  months,  the 
document  entitled  "Recapitulation  of  all  contracts",  dated  May  31,  1922,  sum- 
marizing the  total  receipts  and  disbursements  and  setting  up  a  refund  due  the 
United  States.  The  supporting  details  upon  which  this  is  based  would  be  very 
valuable  at  this  time,  and  therefore  requested. 

If  possible,  we  would  like  a  complete  report  of  disallowances  and  the  action 
taken  on  same,  also  a  report  of  all  suspended  items  and  what  action  was  taken  on 
same,  also  a  complete  statement  of  all  bonus  paid  to  the  contractor  or  to  employees 

It  is  understood  from  the  conference  yesterday  that  of  the  total  amount  ex- 
pended approximately  $80,000,000  has  been  certified  to  the  Comptroller  General, 
and  approximately  $28,000,000  has  not  been  sent  to  him.  If  this  is  correct  would 
you  so  advise,  or  would  you  give  us  the  correct  figures?  We  would  like  a  state 
ment  of  the  conclusions  of  the  War  Department  as  to  how  much  is  due  the  United 
States  upon  complete  settlement  of  the  transaction,  and  the  accounting  data 
upon  which  the  same  is  based. 

If  the  recapitulation  of  May  31,  1922,  referred  to  above  is  the  final  statement 
of  the  War  Department,  would  you  kindly  advise  as  to  where  and  how  it  was 
prepared,  and  as  to  where  the  supporting  documents  and  proof  as  to  same  may 
be  obtained.  Also,  as  to  where  the  files  upon  which  such  summary  was  prepared, 
now  are. 

Very  truly  yours, 

Arthur  Carndtjff, 
Special  Assistant  to  the  Attorney  General. 


Exhibit  No.  1177  JGB/ghm 

War  Department, 
Office  of  the  Chief  of  Ordnance, 

Washington,  June  15,  1923. 
Major  Arthur  Carnduff, 

Special  Asst.  to  the  Attoi'ney  General, 

Old  Land  Office  Building,  Washington,  D.  C. 

My  Dear  Mr.  Carnduff:  In  reply  to  your  letter  of  May  24th,  relative  to  the 
records  of  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  on  the  cost  of  construction  and 
operation  of  the  Old  Hickory  powder  plant,  there  is  inclosed  herewith  a  copy  of  a 
summary  of  these  transactions  prepared  for  the  use  of  the  Secretary  of  War. 
This  Summary  shows  the  results  which  are  tabulated  in  the  Recapitulation  of 
May  31,  and  is  the  supporting  detail  for  that  summary. 

The  only  material  change  from  the  results  set  forth  in  these  two  documents  is  a 
reduction  of  $172,259.79  in  the  allowance  to  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company 
on  account  of  fee  to  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company  of  this  city.  This  matter  has 
been  under  consideration  by  the  Attorney  General  for  some  time. 

The  above  is  not  the  record  of  a  settlement  or  proposed  settlement,  but  is  the 
record  of  the  allowances  and  disallowances  made  to  that  date  by  the  Secretary  of 
War.  I  am  also  inclosing  an  extra  copy  of  the  report  of  May  31,  1922,  to  which 
are  attached  reports  showing  the  general  situation  as  to  disputed  items. 

As  noted  in  paragraph  4  of  the  report  of  Mr.  Kileen,  no  summary  of  amounts 
disallowed  and  accepted  by  the  contractor  is  in  existence. 

The  susi:)ended  items  still  remain  suspended.  These  items  will  probably  be 
considered  by  the  Secretary  of  War  when  he  is  in  position  to  make  a  final  settle- 
ment. 


MUNITIONS    INDXJSTEY  3337 

No  statement  is  available  of  bonus  paid  employees,  either  on  account  of  superior 
services  or  on  accormt  of  separation.  Statement  of  the  bonus  for  savings  under 
the  contract  is  set  up  in  connection  with  operation  accounts. 

The  total  amount  vouchered  on  account  of  this  contract  is  $72,565,801.34. 

Some  disallowances  of  the  War  Department  accepted  by  the  contractor  cover 
amounts  already  vouchered.  These  adjustments  and  the  remaining  allowances 
will  be  summarized  and  transmitted  to  the  General  Accounting  Office  in  connec- 
tion with  the  final  settlement. 

The  War  Department  has  never  reached  a  conclusion  upon  the  amounts  to  be 
allowed  the  contractor  and  the  amounts  to  be  refunded  the  United  States.  Action 
was  suspended  pending  the  reply  of  the  Attorney  General  upon  the  Mason  & 
Hanger  fee,  and  will  probably  be  suspended  until  the  completion  of  the  joint 
hearing  by  the  War  Department  and  the  Department  of  Justice,  which  was 
begun  some  time  ago. 

When  these  two  matters  shall  have  been  completed  and  the  Attorne}-  General 
has  indicated  his  wishes  as  to  the  case,  the  Secretarj-  of  War  will  be  in  position  to 
negotiate  a  settlement. 
Sincerely, 

John  G.  Booton, 
Major,  Old.  Dept.,  U.  S.  A. 

2  inclosures. 


Exhibit  No.  1178 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Just  one  question.  Mr.  Kileen,  we  have  asked  each  of  the 
accountants  giving  opinions  here  to  give  a  brief  resume  of  their  experience  as 
accountants,  and  I  would  like  to  ask  you  the  same  question,  namely,  Are  you  a 
certified  public  accountant? 

Mr.  Kileen.  No,  sir. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Have  you  been  a  senior  accountant? 

Mr.  Kileen.  I  was  given  that  grade  by  Civil  Service,  that  is  all.  Never 
served  in  public  accounting. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Oh,  you  never  served  in  public  accounting? 

Mr.  Kileen.  No,  sir. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Would  you  give  us  very  briefly  your  experience  in  accounting 
before  entering  the  Government  service? 

Mr.  Kileen.  I  attended  the  Utica  Business  College,  and  left  there  to  accept  a 
position  in  a  wholesale  jobbing  and  hardware  concern,  a  clerical  position.  I  was 
there  about  two  years  and  a  half.  My  next  position  was  with  the  General 
Electric  Company.  And  I  held  the  positions  of  claim  chaser,  claim  clerk,  assist- 
ant to  the  head  of  the  distribution  department,  and  was  later  given  charge  of  the 
distribution  department,  making  a  service  of  seven  or  eight  years  with  the  General 
Electric  Company.  I  then  made  application  to  the  Civil  Service,  and  was 
assigned  to  the  Ordnance  Department  in  March  1918. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  What  was  your  rating,  Mr.  Kileen?     What  capacity,  I  mean? 

Mr.  Kileen.  Senior  accountant. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  In  the  Civil  Service? 

Mr.  Kileen.  In  the  Civil  Service. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Did  you  ever  examine  the  books  of  the  Du  Pont  Engineering 
Company? 

Mr.  Kileen.  The  general  books? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Yes. 

Mr.  Kileen.  I  have  worked  on  the  cash  books  to  determine  the  cash  trans- 
actions, the  accounts-payable  registers,  and  the  cost  records  and  journal  entries. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  In  whose  employ  were  you  then? 

Mr.  Kileen.  In  the  United  States  Government. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  For  what  purpose  did  you  work  on  these  books,  Mr.  Kileen? 

Mr.  Kileen.  The  purpose  of  this  audit,  under  Major  Farr. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  But  you  never  made  any  general  examination  of  the  operating 
books  of  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company? 

Mr.  Kileen.  No,  sir;  only  for  the  purpose  of  this  audit,  under  Major  Farr. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Thank  you  very  much. 

Mr.  Kileen.  Yes,  sir.     Now,  gentlemen,  may  I  return  to  Detroit? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  think  that  is  all. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Yes. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  And  we  are  very  much  obliged  to  you. 

(Witness  excused.) 


3338  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Carndtjff.  I  might  say,  Colonel,  that  I  have  not  sent  for  Mr.  Kileen,  as 
I  did  not  consider  his  evidence  would  much  more  than  corroborate  all  of  what 
Major  Farr  would  tell  us,  and  of  course  I  didn't  even  know  how  he  got   (here). 


("Exhibit  No.  1179"  appears  in  text  on  p.  3242.) 


Exhibit  No.   1180 
statement  of  mr.  g.  e.  youmans,  swarthmore,  pennsylvania 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Your  name  is  G.  E.  Youmans.  You  reside  at  Swarthmore, 
Pennsylvania,  and  you  are  at  present  supervisor  of  accountants  of  the  Internal 
Revenue  Department  of  the  Treasury? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Supervisor  of  collector's  office. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Will  you  please  state  to  the  board  your  former  connections 
with  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  transaction,  and  anything  to  your  knowledge  that 
you  feel  the  Government  should  know  about  that.  Just  tell  your  story  infor- 
mally. 

Mr.  Youmans.  My  first  connection  with  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company 
contracts  was  in  December  1919. 

Mr.  Anderson.  You  refer  now  to  the  Old  Hickory,  do  you? 

Mr.  Youmans.  I  was  never  there — yes,  I  was  down  there  once,  I  believe;  yes, 
but  not  during  the  active  operation  of  the  contract,  though. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Very  well.     Proceed. 

Mr.  Youmans.  Then  as  accountant  in  charge  under  Mr.  Cobb,  supervisor  of 
the  cost-accounting  branch  of  the  Philadelphia  district.  Subsequently  I  became 
supervisor  of  the  Philadelphia  district,  the  cost-accounting  branch,  and  continued 
the  supervision  of  the  audit  of  these  contracts.  And  I  continued  in  that  capacity 
until  about  September  1921,  at  which  time  Major  Farr,  a  special  representative 
of  the  Secretary  of  War,  took  entire  charge  of  the  audit  of  the  Du  Pont  Engineer- 
ing Company  contracts,  and  then  I  continued  to  operate  under  his  direction  until 
some  time  in  November  1921,  at  which  time  I  resigned. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Please  state  the  circumstances  of  your  resignation,  and  the 
reason  for  it. 

Mr.  Youmans.  I  resigned  so  that  I  could,  in  my  private  capacity,  make  a 
report  to  the  Comptroller  General,  placing  before  him  in  this  report  certain  mat- 
ters that  I  thought  he  might  not  learn  of  through  the  settlement  or  award  that 
was  being  prepared  on  these  contracts. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Just  tell  the  board  what  the  basis  of  your  report  was,  briefly, 
and  the  reasons  for  it. 

Mr.  Youmans.  Why,  I  prepared  a  statement  which  included  items  that  he  had 
previously  disapproved. 

General  Williams.  Who  had  previously  disapproved? 

Mr.  Youmans.  The  Comptroller  General. 

General  Williams.  Yes? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Showing  the  disposition  that  had  been  made  of  them  by  the 
present  control  over  the  audit  of  these  contracts.  It  was  impossible  to  get  an 
advance  ruling  on  the  items  and  principles  involved  in  this  audit  without  present- 
ing a  bona  fide  voucher.  So  in  the  course  of  time  vouchers  were  prepared,  and 
attached  to  them  were  the  contractor's  receipted  vouchers  supporting  them. 
These  vouchers  embodied  practically  all  of  the  principal  disputed  items,  and  his 
decision  regarding  the  propriety  of  payment  resulted  in  practically  an  inter- 
pretation of  the  contract,  and  in  a  great  measure  supported  the  interpretations 
that  had  already  been  given  by  the  cost-accounting  branch. 


Exhibit  No.  1181 

excerpts  from  executive  session,  old  hickory  investigation,  room  3538, 
munitions  building,  WASHINGTON,  D.  C,  MAY  10-11  1923,  SUBCOMMITTEE  ON 
ORDNANCE  OF  THE  GENERAL  WAR  TRANSACTIONS  BOARD,  PAGES  106-7. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Why  did  you  feel  that  you  had  to  resign  in  order  to  make  a 
report  to  the  Comptroller  General?     Did  you  feel  that  there  were  irregularities 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  3339 

going  on  which  you  could  not  report  efficiently  unless  you  were  free  as  a  private 
citizen  to  say  as  you  thought? 

Mr.  YouMANs.  Well,  yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Don't  hestiate  to  come  right  out  and  talk. 

Mr.  YouMANs.  There  was  a  sense  of  loyalty.  As  long  as  I  was  employed  by 
the  Ordnance  Department,  why  I  made,  prior  to  that,  all  m\'  reports  to  them. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Of  course.  Now  what  were  the  conditions  which  led  you  to 
feel  that  you  ought  to  take  such  a  drastic  step  as  to  resign  in  order  to  make  that 
report? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  I  understood,  or  I  was  told — -I  don't  remember  by  whom — 
that  the  award  would  be  finally  made  in  a  lump  sum  on  these  contracts. 

Mr.  Anderson.   Yes? 

Mr.  YouMANs.  And  such  an  award  would  practically  bury  all  detail.  And  in 
that  lump  sum  award  would  be  these  items  that  we  had  excluded,  and  the  Comp- 
troller General  himself  had  excluded  and  said  were  not  proper  items  of  expense 
on  the  contract. 

Mr.  Anderson.  What  was  the  general  character  of  your  report  to  the  Comp- 
troller General?     Merely  a  protest  against  payment? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  It  was  not  a  protest  even.  I  criticized  no  one  at  all.  Merely 
presented  some  facts  that  I  wanted  to  get  to  him  so  that  he  would  be  warned  and 
know  what  that  lump  sum  might  contain. 

Mr.  Anderson.  And  it  dealt  chiefly  with  the  items  that  you  reviewed? 

Mr.  YouMANs.  Yes;  and  I  showed  the  action  taken  by  Major  Farr  on  those 
same  items. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Well,  what  was  that  action? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Approved  all  the  items  that  the  Comptroller  General  had 
suspended. 


Exhibit  No.  1182 

excerpts  taken  from  minutes  of  executive  SESSION,  OLD  HICKORY  INVESTIGA- 
TION, ROOM  3538,  MUNITIONS  BUILDING,  WASHINGTON,  D.  C,  MAY  10-11,  1923, 
SUBCOMMITTEE  ON  ORDNANCE  OF  THE  GENERAL  WAR  TRANSACTIONS  BOARD, 
PAGES  110-111. 

Colonel  Hull.  Now  on  the  subsidiary  companies  you  completed  absolutely 
all  the  audit  accounting  work,  did  you  not,  on  all  the  contracts  except  Old 
Hickory? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  No.  Operating  costs  had  not  been  gone  into  on  any  of  those 
contracts.  We  were  still  waiting  for  a  decision  as  to  the  necessity  of  furnishing 
proof  of  delivery  of  material.  That  was  still  an  open  cjuestion.  Operating  costs 
were  not  to  be  gone  into  until  after  that  was  determined. 


Exhibit  No.  1183 

excerpts  FROM  EXECUTIVE  SESSION,  OLD  HICKORY  INVESTIGATION,  ROOM  3538, 
MUNITIONS  BUILDING,  WASHINGTON,  D.  C,  MAY  10-11,  1923,  SUBCOMMITTEE  ON 
ORDNANCE  OF  THE   GENERAL  WAR  TRANSACTIONS  BOARD,   PAGE  lU 

Mr.  YouMANS.  We  questioned  every  voucher,  but  not  prices. 

Colonel  Hull.  Sir? 

Mr.  YouMANS.   Prices  are  something  that  were  left  entirely  alone. 

Colonel  Hull.   You  didn't  go  into  the  prices  on  any  of  these? 

Mr.  YouMANS.   On  anything. 

Mr.  Anderson.   May  I  ask  a  question,  or  will  it  bother  you.  Colonel  Hull? 

Colonel  Hull.  You  may 

Mr.  Anderson.  Why  did  you  leave  the  prices  entirely  alone? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Why,  we  were  so  advised  by — I  think  it  was  the  District  Claims 
Board  at  the  time. 

Mr.  Anderson.  In  other  words,  you  didn't  undertake  to  verify  the  fact  that 
the  amount  charged  against  the  Government  was  the  price  paid  by  the  du  Pont 
Company  for  the  stuff  at  all? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  No. 

83876— 35— PT  14 12 


3340  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Exhibit  No.  1184 
statement  of  j.  r.  peebles,  haddonfield,  new  jersey 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Mr.  Peebles,  your  name  is  J.  R.  Peebles,  I  believe,  Haddon 
House,  Haddonfield,  New  Jersey,  formerly  contracting  officer  of  the  Du  Pont 
engineering  contracts,  and  you  succeeded  Major  Guise  as  contracting  officer, 
I  believe? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Yes,  sir;  that  is  correct. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Mr.  Peebles,  I  have  here  a  copy  of  a  letter  which  I  desire  to 
place  in  evidence,  reading  as  follows: 

"December  13,  1921. 
"Subject:   Elimination  of  detailed  summaries. 

"As  a  result  of  conferences  held  in  Washington,  December  10th,  1921,  you  are 
hereby  directed  to  discontinue  preparation  of  detailed  summaries. 

"It  has  been  decided  the  only  information  necessary  is  the  voucher  number  and 
amount,  which  will  permit  tying  up  the  charges  with  the  contract  and  the  con- 
tractor's books." 

This  was  evidently  handed  to  Mr.  Kileen,  with  a  copy  to  you.  I  will  ask  you 
if  you  received  such  instructions? 

Mr.  Anderson.  Who  is  it  signed  by? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  "R.  R.  Farr,  special  representative  of  the  Assistant  Secretary 
of  War". 

Mr.  Peebles.  Yes,  sir;  I  have  recollection  of  that. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Did  you  receive  such  instructions? 


Exhibit  No.  1185 

EXCERPTS  FROM  EXECUTIVE  SESSION,  OLD  HICKORY  INVESTIGATION,  ROOM  3538, 
MUNITIONS  BUILDING,  WASHINGTON,  D.  C,  MAY  10-11,  1923,  SUBCOMMITTEE  ON 
ORDNANCE  OF  THE   GENERAL  WAR  TRANSACTIONS  BOARD,   PAGE  155 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Mr.  Peebles,  you  have  had  charge  of  a  number  of  large  opera- 
tions for  the  Government  audits,  I  think? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Was  the  Old  Hickory  transaction  handled  in  the  same  way  as 
the  others?     Was  it  handled  the  same  way  as  you  handled  other  transactions? 

Mr.  Peebles.  No,  sir;  because  we  completed  the  audit  as  prescribed  by  the 
Comptroller. 

Exhibit  No.   1186 

[Copy] 

GRF/W 
May  9,  1918. 
office  order  #1 

Subject:  Routing  to  be  followed  by  United  States  Army  Ordnance  Inspection 
Force,  Old  Hickory  powder  plant,  Nashville,  Tenn.,  governing  construction 
under  contract  no.  war  order  P-4755-711-E. 

I.  Work  of  Inspection. — Inspection  vnll  be  divided  into  five  classes,  as  follows: 

(A)  Inspection  of  vouchers,  invoices,  bills,  etc.,  material,  expenditures,  etc., 
and  the  approving  or  disapproving  of  same,  before  sending  through  to  the  disburs- 
ing officer  at  Wilmington,  Del. 

(B)  Inspection  of  incoming  material. 

(C)  Inspection  of  distribution  of  material  after  receipt. 

(D)  Inspection  of  the  actual  work  of  construction  with  a  view  to  checking  up 
delays,  excess  of  employees  on  any  particular  piece  of  work,  undue  waste  of  materi- 
al, loafing  employees,  leaving  the  job  early,  etc. 

(E)  General  inspection,  covering  commissary  methods,  office  methods,  police 
methods,  fire  prevention,  etc. 

II.  The  personnel  and  division  of  work. — The  work  of  inspection  will  be  divided 
among  the  personnel  of  this  office  as  follows: 

(A)  Sergt.  E.  F.  Coffin,  in  charge  of  office  and  outside  inspection  for  the  inspector 
of  ordnance. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY  3341 

(B)  J.  S.  Wood,  acting  chief  clerk  and  stenographer,  directly  responsible  for 
routine  work  in  the  office. 

(C)  Private  W.  C.  Gibbons,  in  charge  of  outside  inspection  on  incoming 
material  in  bulk  in  carload  lots. 

(D)  Private  E.  J.  Taylor,  in  charge  of  outside  inspection  on  incoming  mis- 
cellaneous material  in  shipments  of  carload  and  less-than-carload  lots. 

(E)  Private  Harry  W.  Strickler,  general  inspection.  Private  Strickler  will  be 
detailed  daily  for  specific  work. 

III.  Methods  to  be  followed  in  conducting  inspection  of  vouchers,  invoices,  bills, 
etc. — (A)  Such  documents  will  be  divided  into  three  classes,  according  to  the 
contractor's  classification,  as  follows: 

1.  Lumber. 

2.  Mason. 

3.  Miscellaneous. 

(B)  1.  Such  documents  when  presented  to  this  office  for  approval  will  be 
immediately  checked  by  Sergt.  Coffin  or  Mr.  Wood. 

2.  Those  found  correct  will  be  stamped  approved  and  returned  to  the  contractor 
when  complete,  each  day. 

3.  From  time  to  time  documents  will  be  submitted  for  approval  which  may 
be  found  to  be  incorrect  in  various  ways.  Whenever  such  errors  are  found,  Sergt. 
Coffin  or  Mr.  Wood  will  call  the  matter  to  the  attention  of  the  inspector  of 
ordnance  and  take  the  matter  up  with  the  contractor  with  a  view  to  correction. 

(a)  A  record  of  such  documents  will  be  kept  in  the  proper  file.  This  record 
will  give  full  details  in  each  case  covering  the  actual  error  (when  it  can  be  ascer- 
tained) : 

Action  taken  by  this  office. 
Action  taken  by  the  contractor. 
Result  of  the  action  taken. 

(b)  A  monthly  report  will  be  compiled  from  this  file,  showing — 
Total  number  of  errors  detected. 

Total  money  value  of  errors  detected. 

Total  number  of  errors  detected  which  could  not  be  corrected  from  reports 
when  taken  up  with  the  contractor. 

(C)  1.  At  least  10%  of  the  documents  received  in  this  office  without  support- 
ing papers  will  be  held  out  and  will  be  forwarded  to  the  contractor  with  request 
for  supporting  papers. 

2.  Upon  notification  from  the  contractor  that  these  documents  are  ready  for 
inspection  with  supporting  papers  attached,  either  Sergt.  Coffin  or  Mr.  Wood 
will  go  to  the  contractor's  office  and  check. 

3.  A  daily  record  will  be  kept  by  this  office  in  the  proper  file  showing  results 
of  the  check. 

4.  On  the  first  day  of  every  month  a  report  will  be  compiled  from  the  informa- 
tion in  this  file  and  from  the  record  specified  in  paragraph  IV-H-1  showing — 

(a)  The  total  number  of  documents  received  for  each  class  of  material  during 
the  month  for  inspection. 

(b)  The  grand  total  of  documents  received  during  the  month  for  inspection. 

(c)  The  total  number  of  documents  found  to  be  correct  upon  check  during  the 
month. 

(e)  The  total  number  of  documents  found  to  be  incorrect  upon  check  during 
the  month. 

(f)  Percentage  of  documents  checked  by  this  office  during  the  month  based 
on  the  total  number  received  for  inspection. 

(g)  The  percentage  of  documents  found  to  be  incorrect  during  the  month, 
based  on  the  total  number  received  for  inspection. 

IV.  Method  to  be  followed  in  making  inspection  on  incoming  material. — (A)  1. 
The  men  assigned  to  inspection  of  incoming  material  will  be  known  as  field 
inspectors. 

2.  They  will  check  each  day  covering  as  wide  an  area  and  as  great  a  diversity 
of  materials  as  possible,  using  the  forms  issued  by  the  contractor  to  his  field 
checkers  for  records. 

(B)  In  checking  carload  lots  in  bulk  the  entire  carload  will  be  checked. 

(C)  In  checking  less-than-carload  lots  any  single  complete  parcel  or  part  of 
the  shipment  may  be  checked. 

(D)  In  checking  carload  lots  of  miscellaneous  material  any  single  complete 
parcel  or  part  of  the  shipment  may  be  checked. 


3342  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

(E)  It  is  not  desired  that  entire  carloads  of  miscellaneous  shipments  may  be 
checked,  as  with  the  present  force  the  work  would  be  restricted  to  too  small  a 
percentage  of  the  incoming  cars. 

(F)  1.  At  the  end  of  each  day's  work,  the  field  inspectors  will  report  to  the  office, 
turning  in  their  reports  and  taking  up  with  the  inspector  of  ordnance  any  points 
of  particular  importance.  In  the  absence  of  the  inspector  of  ordnance,  written 
memorandum  must  be  made  calling  his  attention  to  such  points. 

2.  Reports  should  be  clipped  together  and  should  have  attached  to  them  a 
written  report,  signed  by  the  field  inspector,  calling  attention  particularly  to  aU 
shortages,  broken  parts,  etc.,  that  the  day's  work  may  have  developed,  indicating 
the  trouble  bv  the  contractor's  requisition  number  covering  the  material  referred 
to. 

3.  Any  other  points  of  interest  which  may  have  been  noted  during  the  day's 
work  in  connection  with  incoming  material  should  be  covered  in  the  field  inspec- 
tor's report. 

4.  Each  morning  the  reports  of  the  field  inspectors  for  the  preceding  day  will 
be  carefully  checked  up  by  Mr.  Wood  or  Sergt.  Coffin.  After  this  has  been  done 
the  contractor  will  be  furnished  with  a  list  of  the  material  covered  in  the  reports, 
identified  by  requisition  numbers  and  car  numbers,  and  the  contractor  will  be 
required  to  submit  corresponding  reports  by  their  field  checkers  for  comparison. 
The  check  comparison  will  be  made  by  Mr.  Wood  or  Sergt.  Coffin  immediately 
upon  notice  from  the  contractor  that  he  has  the  required  records  ready.  In 
making  comparison,  particular  attention  will  be  given  to  reports  by  our  inspectors 
indicating  broken  or  missing  articles. 

(G)  1.  A  daily  record  will  be  kept  by  this  office  in  the  proper  file  showing  the 
results  of  the  comparison  called  for  in  paragraph  IV-F-4,  preceding. 

2.  On  the  first  day  of  every  month  a  report  will  be  compiled  from  the  informa- 
tion in  this  file  and  the  record  specified  in  paragraph  IV-H-1,  showing — 

(a)  The  total  number  of  "check  comparisons"  made  during  the  month. 

(b)  The  total  number  of  "check  comparisons"  found  to  be  correct. 

(c)  The  total  number  of  "check  comparisons"  found  to  be  incorrect. 

(d)  The  percentage  of  "check  comparisons"  found  to  be  correct,  based  on  the 
total  number  of  "check  comparisons"  made  during  the  month. 

(e)  The  percentage  of  "check  comparisons"  found  to  be  incorrect,  based  on 
the  total  number  of  "check  comparisons"  made  during  the  month. 

(f)  The  total  number  of  documents  (vouchers,  invoices,  bills,  etc.)  received  by 
this  office  during  the  month  for  inspection. 

(g)  The  percentage  of  "check  comparisons"  made  during  the  month,  based  on 
the  total  number  of  documents  received  during  the  month  for  inspection. 

(H)  1.  A  daily  record  will  be  kept  in  the  file  provided  showing  the  total 
number  of  vouchers  received  in  this  office  each  dsi\,  classified  as  specified  in  III-A, 
preceding. 

2.  The  first  day  of  each  month  a  total  for  each  class  and  a  grand  total  for  all 
classes  will  be  taken  for  purposes  of  reports  specified  in  the  preceding  paragraphs. 

V.  The  inspection  referred  to  in  paragraph  I-C  will  for  the  time  being  be 
handled  by  the  inspector  of  ordnance  or  such  other  of  the  personnel  of  this  office 
whom  he  may  designate  from  time  to  time. 

VI.  Inspection  referred  to  in  I-D  will  be  handled  by  the  inspector  of  ordnance 
himself,  or  such  other  of  the  personnel  of  this  office  as  he  may  designate.  All 
field  inspectors,  however,  will  "keep  their  eyes  open"  for  any  of  the  points  re- 
ferred to  in  paragraph  I-D  and  will  submit  a  daily  report  in  writing  covering  any 
of  the  points  referred  to  which  the  inspector  may  believe  that  he  has  noted. 
These  reports  should  specify  the  time,  place,  particular  trouble,  and,  when  it 
can  be  obtained  without  friction,  the  name  and  the  number  of  the  foreman 
involved. 

VII.  Inspection  referred  to  in  paragraph  I-E  will  be  handled  by  the  inspector 
of  ordnance  in  person. 

George  R.  Foulke,  Jr., 
1st  Lt.  Orel.  R.  C.  Army  Inspector  of  Ordnance. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3343 

Exhibit  No.  1187 

[Copy]  mg 

Old  Hickory  Powder  Plant, 

GRF:d 
Nashville,  Tennessee,  September  12th,  1918. 
From:   Robert  L.  Oden,  Chief  Clerk,  Ordnance  Department,  U.  S.  A.  (local). 
To:    Capt.  Geo.  R.  Foulke,  Jr.,  Ord.,  U.  S.  A.,  Army  Hickory  powder  plant  (local). 
Subject:   Developments  of  construction  inspection,  per  office  order  no.  I,  at  Old 
Hickory  powder  plant. 

I.  Reference:  Paragraph  III,  C-4,  Subparagraphs  (a)  to  (g),  inclusive,  of 
office  order  no.  1. 

The  monthly  report  referred  to  in  the  reference  is  made  up  and  on  hand  at  this 
office  for  reference  on  demand,  for  each  month  commencing  June  1st,  to  date. 
The  net  result  of  reports  for  June,  July,  and  August,  is  summarized  below  in 
accordance  with  the  reference,  except  for  the  omission  of  subparagraph  (a) 
in  the  reference,  which  reads:  "The  total  number  of  documents  received  for  each 
class  of  material  during  the  month  for  inspection." 

(b)  Grand  total  of  documents  received  to  September  1st 54,  965 

(c)  Total  number  of  documents  checked  for  supporting  papers  by  this 

office  to  September  1st 5,  371 

(d)  Total  number  of  documents  found  to  be  correct  upon  check  for 

supporting  papers  to  September  1st 5,  371 

(e)  Total  number  of  documents  found  to  be  incorrect  to  September  1st None 

(f)  Percentage  of  documents  checked  by  this  office  to  September  1st, 

based  on  total  number  received  for  inspection 9.  8 

(g)  Percentage  of  documents  found  to  be  incorrect  to  September  1st None 

II.  Reference:  Paragraph  IV.,  C-2,  Sul^paragraphs  (a)  to  (g)  inclusive,  of  office 
order  no.  1. 

(a)  Total  number  of  "check  comparisons"  made  to  September  1st 4,  765 

(b)  Total  number  of  "check  comparisons"  found  to  be  correct 3,  561 

(c)  Total  number  of  "check  comparisons"  found  to  be  incorrect 1,  204 

Note. — Included  in  the  "check  comparisons"  found  to  be  incorrect  are  all  reports  which  did  not 
compare  favorably  with  the  Contractor's  reports  when  same  could  be  obtained,  which  was  received 
at  this  plant  on  which  Contract  held  no  parallel  papers. 

(d)  Percentage  of  "check  comparisons"  found  to  be  correct,  based  on 

total  munber  made  to  September  1st 74.  8 

(e)  Percentage  of  "check  comparisons"  found  to  be  incorrect,  based  on 

total  number  of  "check  comparisons "  made  to  September  1st 25.  2 

(f)  Total  niuuber  of  documents  received  by  this  office  during  the  period 

for  inspection 54,  965 

(g)  Percentage  of  "check  comparisons"  made  during  the  period,  based 

on  total  number  of  documents  received  during  period  for  inspec- 
tion    8.  6 

III.  A  study  of  the  figures  given  herewith,  together  with  a  complete  under- 
standing of  the  situation  reveals  a  discrepancy.  First  of  all,  it  will  be  noted  that 
all  vouchers  when  submitted  to  this  office  for  final  inspection  and  passing, 
apparently  have  complete  supporting  papers.  Secondly,  it  will  be  noted  that  in 
25.2%  of  all  the  cases  which  ha\-e  been  checked  by  this  office  and  whicli  constitute 
8.6%  of  the  total  documents  received,  supporting  papers  could  not  be  furnished 
at  the  point  and  by  the  office  where  these  supporting  papers  are  supposed  to 
originate  in  every  case.  In  other  words,  apparently  wlienever  a  field  checker's 
report  was  not  availal)le  to  cover  a  given  voucher,  and  payment  was  desired  on  the 
same,  a  field  checker's  report  was  made  up  from  the  face  of  the  voucher,  attached 
thereto,  certified,  and  forwarded  to  the  Army  inspector  of  ordnance  for  signature 
as  a  proper  supporting  dociuiient. 

IV.  Reference:  Letter  of  ^lay  13th,  1918.  Subject:  Routine  of  inspection, 
paragraphs  2  and  3. 

Paragraph  2  reads,  in  part,  "In  other  words,  the  report  specified  above  first 
develops  with  reasonable  certainty  whether  any  errors  exist  or  not." 

Paragraph  3  reads,  in  part,  "It  is  felt  that  this  report  will  develop  with  reason- 
able certainty,  first,  whether  the  inspection  made  by  the  contractor  is  a  good  and 
proper  inspection." 

It  is  felt  that  the  facts  developed  in  paragraphs  I  and  II  above  show — 

(1)    With  absolute  certainty  that  errors  do  exist: 


3344  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

(2)    That  at  least  part  of  the  inspection  made  by  the  contractor  has  not  proved 
to  be  a  good  and  proper  inspection. 

Robert  L.  Oden,  Chief  Clerk. 


Exhibit  No.   1188 

War  Department, 
Office  of  the  Chief  of  Ordnance. 

Washington. 
Memorandum  for  1st  Lieut.  George  R.  Fotjlke,  Jr.,  U.  S.  R., 

0.  O.  Neio  York  City,  N.  Y. 
In  order  to  complete  the  records  in  this  office,  it  is  requested  that  you  return 
this  paper  to  the  Commissioned  Section,  Personnel  Division,  Office,  Cnief  of 
Ordnance,  Washington,  D.  C,  with  the  information  indicated  below. 

James  L.  Walsh, 
Major,  Ordnance  Department,  U.  S.  A., 

Personnel  Officer. 

Date  of  birth:  July  2nd,  1889. 

Place  of  birth:   Bala  Farm,  Penna.  (Chester,  near  West  Chester,  Pa.). 

Age  on  January  1,  1918:  28  years  6  months. 

Graduate  of  college:   University  of  Penna.,  1911,  B.  S.  Degree. 

Previous  Military  experience:   None. 

Rank:  U.  S.  Commission  as  1st  Lieut.  Ord.  R.  C,  July  10th,  1917. 

Called  to  active  service:  July  30th,  1917. 

Employment  before  entry  into  service:  Du  Pont  Pdr.  Co.,  Technical  Div., 
July  1911  to  Nov.  1912.  Private  business  as  Agt.  for  Du  P.  Co.  &  Farmer  to 
April  1915.  Asst.  Supervisor  of  Pdr.  Line  &  Supervisor  of  Fin.  Dept.  for  Du 
Pont  Pdr.  Co.  to  Feb.  1916.  Senior  asst.  Supt.  Summerville  plant  Aetna  Ex- 
plosives Co.  to  Jan.  1917.  Supt.  Black  Pdr.  Pellet  Plant,  Ball  Grain  Explosives 
Co.  to  July  30th,  1917. 

George  R — edd  Foulke,  Jr., 

1st  Lieut.  Ord.  R.  C.  Corps, 

Washington,  D.  C. 


War  Department, 
Office  of  the  Chief  of  Ordnance, 

Washington,  June  SI,  1917. 
From:  The  Ordnance  Office. 

To:  Commanding  Officer,  Picatinny  Arsenal,  Colonels  Dun  and  Hoffer. 
Subject:  Utilization  of  services  of  Mr.  George  R.  Foulke,  Jr.  (Field). 

1.  I  am  instructed  by  the  Chief  of  Ordnance  to  inform  you  that  Mr.  George 
R.  Foulke,  Jr.  of  Bala  Farm,  West  Chester,  Pennsylvania,  has  been  recommended 
for  commission  as  First  Lieutenant  in  the  Ordnance  Officers'   Reserve  Corps. 

2.  In  order  to  assist  the  Department  in  utilizing  his  services  to  the  best  ad- 
vantage, the  following  information  in  reference  to  him  is  furnished. 

Age:  27  years. 

Education:  4  years  Univ.  of  Pa.     Graduate  of  same,  1911. 

Member:   No  engineering  societies. 

Experience:  As  farmer,  foreman,  supervisor,  assistant  Supt.  and  Supt.  of  plants 
and  construction  of  same  in  connection  with  smokeless  powder.  Supt.  of  Black 
Powder,  Pellet  Dept.,  Ball  Grain  Explosive  Company,  Wilmington,  Delaware. 

Qualifications  for  duty:   With  troops  in  field  "Yes".     On  technical  duty  "Yes". 

Remarks  by  board:   "Notify  Picatinny  Arsenal  of  this  recommendation." 

3.  In  case  the  services  of  the  officer  named  above  can  be  utilized  under  your 
direction,  it  is  requested  that  you  communicate  promptly  with  this  office,  other- 
wise, this  letter  need  not  be  returned  to  the  Ordnance  Office  for  file. 

R.  T.  Davis, 
Lieutenant,  Ordnance  Department,  U.  S.  R. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  3345 

Copy  for  file. 

Exhibit  No.  118S-A 

[Copy] 

June  7,   1918. 

From  Lt.  Geo.  R.  Foulke,  Jr.,  Ord.  R.  C,  army  inspector  of  ordnance,  Nashville, 

Tenn. 
To  Lt.  Col.  F.  H.  Miles,  Jr.,  inspection  division  Ord.  Dept.  U.  A.  S.,  6th  &  B 

Streets,  Washington,  D.  C. 
Subject:   Routine  of  inspection. 

1.  Attached  herewith  is  copy  of  office  order  no.  1  in  re  inspection  specified  in  my 
letter  to  j'ou  of  the  23d  ulte. 

2.  Referring  to  the  monthly  report  specified  in  paragraph  111-C4,  you  will  note 
that  the  report  gives  a  general  summary,  not  including  money  value  of  errors 
found.  The  money  value  of  the  percentage  of  error,  if  any,  can  readily  be  deter- 
mined by  referring  to  the  file  record  from  which  this  report  is  compiled.  The 
actual  documents  which  were  in  error  can  be  found.  From  them  the  actual 
money  value  of  the  errors  can  be  computed,  based  on  the  money  value  of  the 
documents  in  which  the  errors  occurred,  and,  if  satisfactory,  reimbursement,  when 
construction  is  finished,  can  be  made  based  upon  this  percentage.  If  this  reim- 
bursement is  not  thought  to  be  accurate  enough,  then  the  auditor,  when  ap- 
pointed, can  cover  each  document,  check  all  errors,  and  reimbursement  can  be 
made  on  the  strength  of  his  report.  In  other  words,  the  report  specified  above 
first  develops  with  reasonable  certainty  whether  any  errors  existed  or  not,  and 
second  provides  a  working  basis  on  which  adjustment  can  be  made  if  desired. 
Attached  herewith  are  cards,  and  from  the  one  marked  "#  1",  you  will  note 
how  the  information  regarding  documents  checked  with  supporting  papers  is 
shown  in  the  files  of  this  office. 

3.  Referring  to  report  specified  in  IV-G-2  it  is  felt  that  this  report  will  develop 
with  reasonable  certainty,  first  whether  the  inspection  made  by  the  contractor  is 
a  good  and  proper  inspection,  and,  second,  that  it  will  develop  a  basis  for  financial 
adjustment  of  claims,  in  the  following  manner;  if  comparison  of  reports  of  the 
"field  inspectors"  from  this  office  with  the  reports  of  the  contractor's  field  check- 
ers develojas  that  the  contractor's  field  checkers  are  not  reporting  shortages, 
breakages,  etc.,  certain  specified  instances  of  failure  to  make  such  reports  can  be 
determined  from  the  records  kept  in  this  office,  and,  by  referring  to  the  files  by  the 
contractor,  the  loss  in  money  value  occasioned  by  the  errors  in  the  contractor's 
field  checkers'  reports  can  be  determined  as  a  percentage  based  on  the  value  of  the 
shipment.  This  percentage  could  be  applied  if  satisfactory  to  the  entire  vahie  of 
all  purchases  made  for  purposes  of  reimbursement  upon  conclusion  of  construc- 
tion. If  this  method  of  settlement  is  not  satisfactory  the  fact  of  the  error  exist- 
ing has  been  established,  and  audit  can  be  made  bj'  the  proper  parties  and  specific 
adjustment  obtained.  From  the  card  marked  "#  2"  attached,  you  will  note 
how  the  information  regarding  comparison  between  the  field  inspectors'  reports 
and  reports  of  the  contractor's  field  checkers  is  shown  in  the  files  of  this  office. 

4.  Referring  to  paragraph  I-C,  this  inspection  will  be  handled  as  specified  in 
paragraph  V.  No  particular  men  have  been  designated  to  handle  this  work 
regularly  because  investigation  has  developed  that  when  material  is  received  on 
the  ground  here  and  properly  checked  in,  it  is  almost  sure  to  be  checked  up  and 
handled  in  an  economical  manner  and  with  as  little  waste  as  conditions  will  permit. 
Sufficient  inspection  can  be  given,  therefore,  as  outlined  in  paragraph  V  to  insure 
that  the  present  methods  are  continued.  In  case  this  inspection  develops  at  any 
time  that  carelessness  is  creeping  in,  steps  will  be  taken  to  institute  inspection 
that  will  put  a  stop  to  such  carelessness. 

5.  The  method  of  handling  inspection  referred  to  in  paragraph  I-D  as  specified 
in  paragraph  VI  is  forced  upon  this  office  by  the  very  nature  of  the  work.  It  is 
almost  impossible  to  prove  that  the  troubles  specified  did  exist  even  if  they  seemed 
to  at  the  moment  of  inspection.  This  office  is  cooperating  with  the  du  Pont  En- 
gineering Co.  to  put  a  stop  to  such  troubles,  and  it  is  the  belief  of  this  office  that 
the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  is  doing  everything  in  their  power  to  prevent  such 
troubles.  If  the  services  of  one  or  two  thoroughly  trained  construction  engineers 
with  experience  in  big  construction  work  could  be  obtained,  interesting  criticism 
might  be  made,  but  it  is  not  believed  that  any  more  or  any  better  action  could  be 
taken  than  is  being  taken  at  the  present  time. 

6.  Relative  to  inspection  specified  in  paragraph  I-E,  this  inspection  will  of 
necessity  have  to  be  handled  by  the  inspector  of  ordnance  himself.  For  the 
du  Pont  Engineering  Company  it  is  being  covered  by  men  who  have  years  of  pre- 


3346  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

liminary  training  in  other  work  of  the  same  character,  ai.d  in  the  opinion  of  the 
inspector  of  ordnance  they  are  doing  all  that  is  possible  at  the  present  time. 

7.  It  is  realized  most  keenly  that  the  inspection  outlined  in  office  order  no.  1  is 
not  a  100%  inspection.  It  is  felt,  however,  that  if  properly  carried  out,  it  is 
reasonably  certain  to  develop  any  troubles  which  may  exist  and  provide  a 
remedy  for  them  and  that  no  more  certain  system  of  inspection  can  be  devised 
to  meet  the  conditions  short  of  an  absolute  100%  inspection.  This  last  is  prac- 
tically out  of  the  question.  The  Du  Pont  Engineer  ng  Co.  and  the  subcontractors 
are  conducting  a  100%  inspect  on.  In  doing  this  the  Du  Pont  Engineering 
Company  is  employing  100  checkers  and  the  subcontractor's  force  is  approxi- 
mately 100  checkers  covering  incoming  material  alone,  while  an  office  force  of 
several  hundred  people  is  maintained  to  do  the  necessary  paper  work.  In 
addition  to  these  men,  there  is  a  small  army  engaged  in  checking  the  distribution 
of  material,  auditing  vouchers,  etc.  Inasmuch  as  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Co. 's 
files  are  open  at  all  times  to  the  Government  and  will  eventually  be  turned  over 
to  the  Government,  it  is  felt  that  to  institute  a  check  on  them  which  would  cover 
the  work  as  they  are  doing  would  involve  a  waste  of  men  and  money  and  a  loss 
of  time  which  would  not  be  justified. 

George  R.  Foulke,  Jr., 

1st  Lieut.  Ord.  Y.  C, 
Army  Inspector  of  Ordnance. 

Exhibit  No.  1189 

General  Williams.  I  am  willing  to  say  this:  I  think  that  under  the  contract 
I  as  chief  of  ordnance  would  have  had  authority  to  direct  a  10  percent  audit. 
Furthermore  I  will  say  that  under  the  circumstances — the  question  never  was 
brought  to  me — but  under  the  circumstances  had  it  been  brought  to  me,  I  would 
have  directed  such  an  audit. 

Mr.  McLane.  What  I  was  driving  at  is,  who  did  direct  it? 

General  Williams.  I  will  admit  the  responsibility  for  directing  that  audit. 

Mr.  Guise.  The  only  information  we  have  as  to  orders,  or  that  I  secured  as  to 
orders 

Colonel  Hull.  Limit  that  to  the  time  of  operation. 

General  Williams.  Construction  and  operation. 

Mr.  Guise.  This  10  percent  that  has  been  referred  to  is  not  an  audit,  it  never 
was  an  audit.  The  10  percent  method  referred  to  was  the  method  used  in 
checking  the  quantity  and  class  of  incoming  materials. 

Mr.  Anderson.  That  was  true  of  the  period  of  construction  and  operation? 

Mr.  Guise.  During  the  operation.  There  was  practically  no  check  ever  found 
on  the  operation  materials. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Just  a  minute.  Then  during  the  period  of  construction  and 
operation  there  was  what  we  might  call  a  10  percent  check.  That  is,  one  receipt 
in  ten  would  be  checked  to  verify  its  correctness,  and  the  other  nine  would  be 
assumed  to  be  correct  on  the  basis  that  that  one  was  found  correct? 

Mr.  Guise.  This  was  the  Government  check. 

Mr.  Anderson.  The  governmental  check.  Now  then,  what  was  the  next 
audit? 

Mr.  Guise.  This  was  not  the  audit.  Do  not  get  "audit"  and  "check"  mixed. 
An  audit  is  an  entirely  different  thing  from  a  check.  The  Army  inspector  of 
ordnance,  under  the  old  system  that  was  carried  along  to  some  extent  in  the  new — 
although  we  were  relieved  to  some  extent  of  his  responsibility  for  property — was 
the  representative  in  the  field  and  had  to  assume  property  accountability  for  all 
materials  received  and  paid  for  by  the  Government.  In  these  cost  plus  contracts 
the  miscellaneous  items  that  made  up  the  material  being  manufactured  l^y  the 
contractor  had  to  be  checked;  the  actual  final  cost  of  the  article  had  to  be  checked 
in  under  the  same  method. 

The  Army  inspector  was  given  a  group  of  men — sometimes  depending  on  his 
discretion,  and  generally  depending  on  how  far  he  made  his  check,  more  than 
anything  else — for  several  pur):)Oses;  primarily,  we  may  say,  so  far  as  incoming 
materials  are  concerned,  to  check  against  the  ciuantity  and  quality  received. 
Secondarily,  to  check  against  proccesses  in  producing  the  material.  Normally  it 
was  expected  that  a  complete  chedk  would  be  made  on  the  receipt  of  materials. 
That  was  had;  there  was  no  reversal  that  I  know  of  at  any  time  of  the  ordnance 
department  regulations  in  that  direction.  Of  course  I  had  myself  about  eight 
months  of  inspection  work,  and  during  that  period  I  had  the  old-time  method, 
and  I  had  the  old-time  propertj^  accounts.     I  only  had  nine  all  told  to  take  care  of. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


3347 


In  this  case  the  evidence  that  it  was  possible  to  secure,  together  with  a  copy 
of  the  order  issued  b}'  Lieutenant  Foulke,  indicated  that  a  10  percent  check  was 
made  on  the  receipt  of  the  material.  That  is,  out  of  we  will  say  100  vouchers, 
10  vouchers  would  be  pulled  out  and  checked  up,  and  the  100  accepted  as  being 
correct  if  the  ten  were  correct. 

The  Chairman.  Was  that  the  customary  practice  in  the  case  of  a  large  contract 
of  this  sort  in  those  times,  or  was  that  special  in  this  particular  case? 

Mr.  Guise.  Well,  I  don't  know.  This  was  the  only  case  anyway  where  I 
definitely  came  in  touch  with  that  particular  practice.  As  I  stated,  in  my  prop- 
erty accounts  I  always  worked  on  the  old  method.  Even  over  in  France  I  used 
the  old  system,  and  I  found  that  I  could  keep  things  clear,  and  my  accounts  were 
"zeroed"  even  overseas,  so  I  assumed  it  was  satisfactory  for  me  to  do  it. 

In  this  particular  case  it  must  be  remembered  that  the  Army  inspector  of 
ordnance  at  the  Old  Hickory  smokeless  powder  plant  had,  in  proportion  to  the 
magnitude  of  the  task,  a  comparatively  limited  number  o    checkers. 


Exhibit  No.   1190 

Washington,  D.  C,  Sept.  14,  1923. 
Memorandum  to  Assistant  Attorney  General  John  W.  H.  Grim. 
In  re:   Preliminary  investigation    Old    Hickory  powder   plant,   Nashville,  Ten- 
nessee. 

1.  In  accordance  with  instructions  your  accountant  proceeded  to  Nashville, 
Tennessee,  for  the  purpose  of  making  a  preliminary  investigation  of  the  plant 
records  of  the  Old  Hickory  Powder  Co.,  and  submits  the  following  findings: 

2.  I  visited  the  plant,  which  is  situated  about  20  miles  from  Nashville  at  a 
place  called  Jackson,  Tenn.,  and  found  that  some  of  the  plant  records,  such_  as 
requisitions,  and  duplicate  work  vouchers,  were  in  the  keeping  of  the  commanding 
officer,  ordnance  division,  War  Department.  Major  Oscar  Krupp,  being  the 
commanding  officer  now  in  charge  of  the  plant.  I  also  found  records  that  were 
stored  in  a  temporary  building  in  the  powder  area  by  orders  of  one  Major  O'Shaugh- 
nessy,  who  was  then  commanding  officer  and  who,  I  understand  was  formerly 
connected  with  the  corporation  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Co.,  and  who  has 
lately  returned  to  the  ordnance  division. 

3.  The  records  in  question  were  dumped  into  tin  cans  under  the  major's  in- 
structions, carried  to  this  temporary  storehouse,  and  there  dumped  into  rooms 
without  any  regard  as  to  system  or  importance.  The  building  in  question 
originally  had  four  rooms,  but  same  was  struck  by  a  cj'clone  and  part  of  the  build- 
ing was  blown  away,  and  some  of  the  records  were  scattered  to  the  winds.  The 
roof  of  the  building  was  torn  away  and  the  records  were  exposed  to  the  elements 
for  a  number  of  weeks.  Other  records  were  found  under  the  flooring  of  the  build- 
ing covered  with  acids.  The  building  at  the  present  time  has  a  padlock  on  it, 
but  at  least  a  dozen  persons  have  keys  thereto.  This  was  called  to  the  attention 
of  Major  Krupp  who  advised  your  accountant  on  Sept.  12,  1923,  that  the  con- 
dition would  be  remedied. 

4.  The  following  leads  and  reports  of  irregularities  relative  to  the  construction 
and  operation  of  the  plant  during  the  war  period  have  come  to  the  attention  of 
your  accountant  during  the  further  conduct  of  this  preliminary  investigation: 

Alcohol. — Total  shipments  of  this  commodity  amounted  to  22,859,811  lbs., 
with  total  values  of  $2,472,484.11.  The  auditors  for  the  War  Department  took 
exception  to  755,072  lbs.,  valued  at  $75,507.20,  which  was  shipped  to  the  plant 
after  date  of  Dec.  1,  1918. 

Cotton.— The  total  shipments  of  cotton  82,301,401  lbs.,  with  a  value  of  $4,685,- 
342.42,  the  exceptions  being  to  13,683,822  lbs.,  with  a  value  of  $832,702.41  which 
was  shipped  after  Dec.  1,  1918. 

(a)  The  exceptions  taken  are  based  upon  records  showing  materials  received 
after  Dec.  1,  1918,  cotton  shipments  originating  at  Hopewell,  Va.,  and  at  Nitro, 
W.  Va.,  both  being  plants  of  the  parent  company  of  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Co. 
These  records  also  disclose  that  part  of  these  shipments  were  made  from  Dec.  1, 
1918,  up  to  and  including  April  of  1919.  Further  investigation  will  disclose  the 
fact  that  this  cotton  was  purchased  on  requisition  and  purchase  orders  for  the 
production  and  operation  of  the  above-named  plants. 

(6)  Investigation  of  prices  at  one  point  of  origin,  Jackson,  Tenn.,  shows  that 
the  American  Industry  Corporation,  formed  by  the  parent  company,  the  E.  I. 
du  Pont  de  Nemours  Co.,  bought  cotton  from  "the  planter  and  shipper  at  lower 


3348  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

prices  than  called  for  by  the  contract  and  sold  to  the  contractor,  the  Du  Pont 
Engineering  Co.,  at  the  values  set  forth  in  the  contract.  This  plainly  shows  a 
profit  to  the  subsidiary  company.  Price  paid  shipper  was  04.67^  per  lb.,  and  it 
was  vouchered  through  for  payment  by  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  to  the  Gov- 
ernment at  05.75^  per  lb.,  bridging  their  contract.  They  therefore  received  a 
profit  although  the  contract  plainly  states  that  the  contractor  shall  not  gain  or 
lose  by  the  prices  as  stipulated  in  the  contract.  This  one  example  clearly  shows 
how  the  use  and  bridging  of  this  contract  was  worked  to  their  own  advantage. 
Investigation  of  all  points  of  origin  will  undoubtedly  disclose  further  irregularity. 

(c)  Railroad  records  that  were  transcribed  show  a  freight  rate  being  applied 
and  paid  by  the  contractor  (Du  Pont  Engineering  Co.)  vary  from  60  cents  to 
$3.20  per  100  lbs.  from  the  same  point  of  origin. 

(d)  The  question  of  freight  rates  have  been  argued  at  various  times;  some  could 
not  see  whereby  the  contractor  was  benefited  as  the  railroads  were  operated  under 
Federal  control  at  the  time,  and  it  appears  to  others  that  the  questioning  of  these 
rates  was  a  useless  expense  and  a  waste  of  time.  It  is  the  contention  of  j'our 
accountant  that  where  materials  were  bought  through  a  subsidiary  company  of 
the  parent  company,  the  contractor,  on  a  cost  i?lus  basis,  it  was  to  their  advantage 
and  profit  to  allow  these  variations  in  freight  rates  to  go  through  without  further 
questioning  or  adjustment. 

(e)  If  your  investigators  were  to  proceed  to  the  point  of  origin,  the  books  of  the 
various  shippers  would  disclose  as  to  weights  and  prices  shipments  where  bales  of 
cotton  weighing  over  2,000  lbs.  each  were  paid  for  by  the  Du  Pont  Engineering 
Co.,  while  it  is  a  known  fact  among  cotton  shippers  that  a  bale  of  cotton  has  a 
commercial  weight  of  500  lbs. 

(/)  It  has  come  to  the  attention  of  your  accountant  that  the  Du  Pont  American 
Industries  shipped  long  after  the  Armistice  many  bales  of  cotton  linters  to  the 
plant,  that  were  of  excessive  weights,  and  by  way  of  illustration  your  attention  is 
directed  to  the  following:  On  Oct.  16,  1918,  there  was  shipped  from  Dallas,  Tex., 
car  M.  K.  T.  94,333,  containing  24  bales  weighing  24,000  lbs.,  each  bale  being  an 
average  of  1,000  lbs.  On  Nov.  7,  1918,  there  was  shipped  from  Maridina,  Okla- 
homa, car  R.  F.  &  P.  2,203  containing  40  bales,  weighing  98,749  lbs.,  being  an 
average  of  2,468  lbs.  to  a  bale.  On  Feb.  20,  1918,  there  was  shipped  from  Hope- 
well iDlant,  car  D.  L.  &  W.  34,250,  containing  45  bales,  weighing  59,980  lbs.,  the 
average  weight  per  bale  being  1,333  lbs.  On  Feb.  22,  1919,  car  N.  Y.  C.  no. 
236,165  from  Hopewell,  containing  51  bales,  weighing  76,144  lbs.,  being  an 
average  of  1,492  lbs.  to  a  bale. 

(g)  In  connection  with  the  above  shipments  your  attention  is  again  directed 
to  the  fact  that  the  cotton  gins  compress  only  500  lbs.  to  a  bale.  By  way  of  a 
test  your  accountant  took  car  no.  2203,  R.  F.  &  P.,  containing  40  bales,  weighing 
98,749  lbs.,  and  on  which  weight  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  paid  freight,  and 
found  from  car  records  that  the  car  in  question  was  an  automobile  car,  and  that 
the  capacity  of  same  was  80,000  lbs.  Shippers  are  permitted  to  increase  this  weight 
by  ten  percent,  making  a  total  capacity  of  88,000  lbs.,  and  it  would  be  utterly 
impossible  to  get  98,749  lbs.  in  this  car.  An  investigation  of  these  cotton  ship- 
ments would  probably  disclose  other  gross  irregularities. 

(h)  In  connection  with  these  cotton  linters  it  has  been  brought  to  my  attention 
in  reference  to  a  sale  made  on  Nov.  22,  1922,  in  which  4,000  tons  of  cotton  linters 
were  sold  at  $12.50  per  ton,  amounting  to  $50,000,  the  sale  being  to  the  Lookout 
Oil  and  Refining  Company,  by  the  Nashville  Industrial  Corporation.  This 
matter  should  be  investigated  to  determine  whether  the  sale  should  accrue  to  the 
Government  or  not. 

Causticising  lime. — -There  were  8,081,600  lbs.,  with  a  value  of  $30,079.91,  excep- 
tions being  taken  that  shipments  were  made  after  Dec.  1,  1918;  that  these 
shipments  all  originated  within  a  radius  of  100  miles  of  Nashville,  Tenn.,  and 
that  most  of  it  was  bought  through  a  local  firm,  T.  L.  Herl^ert  &  Sons,  with 
offices  in  Nashville,  Tenn.  Claims  entered  against  the  above-mentioned  shipper, 
and  acknowledged  as  correct  by  the  railroad  agent  as  to  weights,  were  weighed 
by  the  contractor  and  paid  in  full. 

Nitrate  of  soda. — Total  shipments  were  202,844,173  net  lbs.,  with  a  total  valua- 
tion, including  iidand  freight,  of  $8,729,293.63. 

(a)  Exceptions  taken  on  shipments  made  after  Dec.  2,  1918.  It  required  38 
days  to  travel  by  ocean  route  to  point  of  entry.  It  is  the  contention  of  your 
investigator,  and  borne  out  bj^  the  contractor's  own  statement,  made  on  the 
first  page  of  their  annual  report  for  the  year  1918,  that  they  could  and  should 
have  cabled  cancellations  of  all  shipments,  especially  of  such  a  vast  amount  of 
material  used  in  the  production  of  smokeless  powder.  Question  of  price  on  this 
particular  material  should  be  thoroughly  investigated,  as  we  have  information 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3349 

leading  us  to  believe  that  the  parent  company  again  through  its  purchases  with 
a  subsidiary  company,  received  an  excessive  profit  on  nitrate  of  soda. 

(6)  There  was  a  commission  appointed  to  purchase,  and  this  commission  was 
invested  with  the  distribution  rights  of  all  nitrate  of  soda.  The  commission, 
we  are  led  to  believe,  were  all  members  directly  or  indirectly  connected  with  or 
for  the  parent  company.  In  the  opinion  of  your  accountant  there  is  a  matter 
that  should  be  investigated  relative  to  shipments  of  soda,  which  is  as  follows: 
"Whv  place  an  additional  price  of  six  shillings  a  quintal  at  ship-side  before  the 
nitrate  of  soda  was  placed  aboard  ship  for  transportation  to  point  of  delivery." 

(c)  This  additional  charge  was  levied  by  the  commission  above  referred  to. 
This  charge  can  be  verified  through  Majors  Finlitter,  H.  P.  Guise,  and  R.  E. 
Bauman,  all  of  whom  were  formerly  connected  with  the  U.  S.  Ordnance  Depart- 
ment. 

(d)  The  unloading  of  a  vast  quantity  of  materials  as  the  records  disclose  should 
be  thoroughly  investigated,  and  whoever  is  responsible  should  be  reciuired  to  show 
the  reason  and  authority  for  permitting  this  unloading.  The  signing  of  the 
Armistice  was  the  moral  notice  to  corporations  and  individuals  alike,  that  the 
w^ar  was  at  an  end. 

(e)  This  point  was  upheld  by  the  Army  Ordnance  Department  and  instructions 
were  issued  to  take  exceptions  to  all  materials  shipped  or  contracted  for  after 
Dec.  1,  1918. 

Soda  Ash. — The  total  w^eight  of  soda  ash  was  8,293,100  lbs.,  valued  at  $129,- 
129.85.  Exceptions  were  taken  to  691,300  lbs.,  of  the  value  of  $10,790.61, 
shipped  after  Dec.  1,  1918.  Prices  and  freight  should  be  compared  at  the  point 
of  origin  against  sales  and  prices  as  billed  to  other  firms. 

Crude  sulphur. — Of  a  weight,  80,583,780  lbs.,  with  a  total  value,  including 
expenses  of  guarding,  of  $796,012.00.     Exceptions  were  as  follows: 

(a)  426,200  lbs.  valued  $4,185.90.  These  shipments  originated  in  Louisiana, 
and  could  have  been  readily  cancelled,  but  along  with  other  shipments  of  material, 
they  were  unloaded  after  Dec.  1,  1918. 

(6)  Guarding  charges  of  $4,744.50,  listed,  shows  some  very  interesting  facts. 
Some  cars  required  shows  the  expenditures  to  be  approximately  40%  higher 
charges  from  the  same  point  of  origin  and  for  the  same  number  of  cars. 

Sulphuric  acid. — There  were  shipped  from  Mineral  Point  Zinc  Co.,  117,600 
lbs.,  at  a  price  of  $34.84  per  ton,  and  from  the  Graselli  Chemical  Co.,  506,000  lbs., 
at  a  price  of  $28  a  ton.  Exception  in  this  case  being  the  difference  in  price.  All 
shipments  were  made  within  a  period  of  seven  days,  which  shows  that  there 
should  not  have  been  any  change  in  price.  Further  investigation  might  shov.-  the 
Mineral  Point  Zinc  Co.'s  connection  as  to  whether  they  are  a  subsidiary  of  the 
contractor.    If  this  fact  is  disclosed,  the  reason  is  obvious. 

Solder. — 240,000  lbs.  priced  from  47fi  to  55>^ji,  $122,250.  Exceptions  are  taken 
on  87,000  lbs.,  at  47  cents,  amounting  to  $37,600.  The  shipment  originated  at 
Long  Island  City,  N.  Y.,  and  exceptions  should  be  taken  that  this  material  was 
shipped  after  Dec.  1,  1918.    It  would  appear  that  this  is  another  case  of  unloading. 

Cast-iron  borings. — There  were  shij^ped  from  John  C.  Kane,  Philadelphia,  Pa., 
177,200  lbs.,  at  $16.30  per  long  ton.  Also  from  Joseph  Bros.,  Cincinnati,  2,689,532 
lbs.,  at  $22.06  per  long  ton.  Exceptions  taken  to  the  difference  in  price.  Kane 
shipments  were  made  from  Da3'ton,  Ohio,  while  Joseph  Bros,  shipments  origi- 
nated at  Cincinnati.  Investigations  at  point  of  origin  would  undoubtedly  disclose 
some  interesting  facts.  It  should  be  determined  whether  the  contractor  is 
interested  financialh'  in  Joseph  Bros. 

Powder  bags. — There  were  shipped  from  J.  Spencer  Turner  &  Co.,  New  York, 
10,500  bags,  at  61  cents  each,  and  from  Carter  Haugh  Tent  and  Awning  Co., 
Nashville,  Tenn.,  220  bags,  at  $1.70  each.  These  latter  bags  should  have  been 
taken  on  at  the  difference  in  price,  and  it  is  the  opinion  of  your  investigator  that 
if  a  further  investigation  is  made,  it  would  be  found  that  these  bags  were  obsolete 
as  containers  of  powder.  Other  and  more  eflScient  containers  were  being  used  in 
the  trade. 

Box  shooks. — There  were  shipped  300,035  complete  shooks  of  a  value  of  $297,- 
718.21.  The  exceptions  taken  were  as  follows:  15  carloads  were  received  at  the 
plant  after  Dec.  1,  1918,  amounting  to  $23,032.70.  In  addition  to  this  30  cars  left 
the  E.  I.  du  Pont  Nemours  plant  known  as  the  "Brandywine  shop"  at  Wilming- 
ton, Del.  On  Nov.  25,  1918,  two  weeks  after  the  signing  of  the  armistice,  this 
shipment  arrived  at  the  plant  after  Dec.  1,  1918,  and  cost  approximately  $50,000, 
exclusive  of  freight.  There  were  no  vouchers  in  the  plant  files  covering  these 
shipments. 


3350  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

It  would  appear  that  this  was  an  unloading  of  surplus  stock  onto  the  old  Hickory 
company,  and  I  am  advised  by  one  of  our  informants  that  he  personally  handled 
the  sale  of  35,000  shooks  at  16fi  loaded  at  Nashville.  Question  of  this  sale  should 
be  thoroughly  investigated. 

Sulphate  alumina. — There  were  purchased  from  the  Harrison  Paint  Works,  a 
subsidiary  company  of  the  Du  Fonts,  250,000  lbs.,  at  .025  a  lb.,  with  a  loading 
charge  of  $65.76  a  car.  Other  shipments  purchased  from  Isaac  Winkler  Bros.  Co., 
of  Cincinnati,  were  paid  at  a  price  of  .02  to  .025  per  lb.  without  loading  charges, 
and  from  the  Kalbfleisch  Corporation  at  Chattanooga,  at  prices  from  IV^  cents 
to  2  cents  per  lb.,  without  loading  charges  and  1%  cash  discount.  The  exceptions 
taken  on  this  are  through  the  high  prices  paid  to  Harrison  Bros.,  and  it  is  again 
apparent  that  the  contractor  bought  through  their  subsidiaries  at  a  profit  to 
themselves. 

Benzol. — Shipments  of  benzol  from  Deep  Water  and  Carney's  Point,  N.  J., 
both  plants  of  the  E.  I.  du  Pont  Nemours  Co.  Received  30  cents  per  gallon,  the 
maximum  price,  along  with  a  loading  charge  of  $10  a  car.  While  shippers  from 
Woodard,  Ala.,  received  from  20  to  30  cents  per  gallon,  with  a  cash  discount  of 
1%  and  no  loading  charges. 

Overcharge  in  freights. — From  a  cursory  examination  I  find  that  there  are  over- 
charges in  some  freights  for  shipments  into  the  plant  of  at  least  $29,000  that  the 
railroad  company  has  acknowledged.  I  believe  this  to  be  only  a  small  amount  of 
the  total,  and  I  have  been  informed  that  the  Government  can  recover  at  least 
$1,000,000  without  recourse  to  the  courts.  These  freights,  of  course,  will  all  have 
to  be  investigated  and  proof  made  of  the  overcharges. 

Undertakers,  hospitals,  etc. — From  a  cursory  examination  your  accountant  finds 
that  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  at  the  time  of  the  epidemic  of  flu  entered  into 
a  contract  with  a  firm  of  undertakers  in  Nashville,  Tenn.,  named  Wiles  Bros., 
in  which  the  undertakers  were  to  care  for  the  victims  at  a  price  of  $75  for  each 
burial.  In  this  connection  I  would  state  that  the  facts  as  disclosed  by  the  records 
are  deplorable.  At  times  when  a  death  would  occur  this  firm  of  undertakers 
would  charge  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  the  amount  under  the  contract  and 
transfer  the  body  to  Potter's  Field,  in  which  they  paid  the  county  authorities 
$11.00  and  made  a  clear  profit  of  the  difference.  Where  relatives  of  the  deceased 
were  able  to  pay  for  the  funeral,  exhorbitant  prices  would  be  charged  by  this  firm. 
As  an  illustration,  a  casket  costing  $29.50  would  be  charged  up  at  $200  or  more,  if 
they  thought  the  parties  could  stand  for  it.  Again,  the  relatives  of  the  deceased, 
if  a  burial  was  to  cost  $300,  would  contribute,  say,  $150.  This  firm  would  charge 
$300  to  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  and  pocket  the  $150  in  addition.  Again,  if 
money  was  coming  to  the  deceased  in  the  way  of  wages,  they  would  collect  these 
wages  from  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  and  pocket  same.  Valuables  belonging 
to  the  victims'  would  be  lost.  The  victims  bodies  when  sent  home  for  burial,  in 
some  instances,  would  be  shipped  nude  and  would  arrive  in  a  decomposed  con- 
dition. This  matter  should  be  thoroughly  investigated  and  the  offenders  brought 
to  justice. 

The  Du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  sent  a  number  of  patients  to  the  various  hospitals 
in  Nashville,  who  afterward  died,  and  were  buried  by  Wiles  Bros.  Among  them 
were  children  from  four  months  old  to  ten  years  old,  and  the  United  States  Gov- 
ernment paid  the  expenses.  At  times  the  patient  also  paid  the  bills,  but  never- 
theless this  was  not  credited  to  the  United  States  Government. 

Mason  and  Hanger  Co.  {subcontractor). — This  concern  was  organized  with 
offices  in  Frankfort,  Ken.  They  were  formerly  railroad  contractors,  and  the 
records  disclose  an  overpayment  in  fees  of  $826,456.60.  It  -will  be  necessary  to 
make  a  thorough  investigation  of  their  books,  as  thej'  purchased  independently  of 
the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  The  latter  however  paid  the  amounts  of  Mason  & 
Hanger  Co.'s  creditors,  as  shown  on  the  face  of  the  invoice.  The  ordnance 
department  has  taken  exception  to  the  above  amount.  Other  exceptions  were  as 
follows:  Inapplicable  administrative  expenses  (I.  E.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Co.), 
$181,872.26;  shop  orders  (contractors  allowed  credit),  $88,376.71;  railroad 
charges  (N.  C.  &  St.  L.  Rv.),  $110,000.00;  audit  of  subcontracts  (N.  C.  &  St.  L.  & 
T.  C.  Ry.),  $137,447.14;  duplicate  payments  made  to  N.  C.  &  St.  L.  Ry.  on  sub- 
contracts, $112,081.92;  pay  roll  overpayments,  $61,591.94;  making  a  total  of 
$1,507,826.57.  These  items  cannot  in  any  sense  of  the  word  be  allowed,  as  they 
are  contrary  to  the  provisions  of  the  contract  or  anj^  subcontracts  apj^roved  by 
the  ordnance  department,  or  signed  by  the  contractor  and  subcontractor,  are 
errors  of  a  class  for  which  the  United  States  is  not  responsible. 

Exceptions  are  taken  to  the  following  items:  Meritorious  bonus,  $151,355.00; 
extra  compensation,  wages  &  salaries  paid  after  discontinuing  services  (no  services 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3351 

rendered),  $286,319.47;  transportation  and  moving  of  household  goods  after  dis- 
charge of  employees,  $270,355.77;  making  a  total  of  $708,030.24.  A  portion  of 
these  items  may  be  accepted  by  a  claims  board  acting  for  the  Secretary  of  War, 
but  the  exceptions  are  taken  on  the  basis  that  these  were  costs  or  damages  in- 
curred after  suspension,  and  should  not  have  l)een  incurred  except  with  the  assent 
of  the  proper  administrative  officials  of  the  United  States,  and  that  this  assent 
should  have  been  given  in  advance  of  any  action  by  the  contractor  with  relation 
thereto.  Also  pai-t  of  this  expense  is  of  a  class  that  has  been  disallowed  by  the 
controller.     Total  exceptions  in  both  classes  $2,215,856.81. 

Statement. — It  will  be  understood  that  there  are  very  large  sums  in  addition  to 
tliis  that  will  be  disallowed  on  account  of  the  impossibility  of  accepting  them  as  a 
charge  properly  applicable  to  this  contract,  such  as  gifts,  unlawful  legal  expenses, 
losses  on  account  of  criminal  acts  of  the  contractor's  employees,  incidental 
expenses  of  a  purely  personal  nature,  claims  for  personal  expenses  not  supported 
in  any  way  (impossible  of  support),  claims  for  personal  expenses  over  and  above 
any  reasonable  charge,  and  other  items  of  detail.  It  is  estimated  that  such  items 
as  these  will  in  the  aggregate  amount  to  something  over  $3,000,000.  Under 
date  of  Sept.  3,  1920,  the  auditor  for  the  War  Department  suspended  payments  of 
Walter  F.  Baylis,  Capt.,  U.  S.  A.,  disbursing  officer,  Du  Pont  Engineering  Co.,  as 
follows: 

"Payment  to  Du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  under  contract  P4755-711-E.  All 
vouchers  from  you  voucher  564,  Oct.  18,  to  voucher  868,  Dec.  1918,  inc.,  are 
svTspended  for  properly  receipted  invoices  for  materials  purchased,  itemized 
statements  of  expense  account,  and  receipts  for  same,  certified  copies  of  subcon- 
tracts, if  any,  and  other  proper  evidence  should  be  secured  and  forwarded  to  this 
office  in  support  of  payment." 

Major  Guise  states:  "Under  date  of  Nov.  30,  1920,  this  covers  practically  all 
payments  made  by  said  disbursing  officer  against  said  contract.  In  addition  to 
the  above  has  information  that  the  advance  of  $18,750,000  made  by  Capt.  Shepard 
has  also  been  suspended". 

Your  accountant  is  of  the  opinion  that  a  statement  should  be  prepared  beginning 
with  voucher  564  down  to  and  including  voucher  868,  showing  the  date,  when 
paid,  to  whom  paid,  what  for,  whether  supporting  schedules  when  paid,  who 
authorized  payment,  no.  of  check,  name  of  bank,  if  vouchers  were  subsequently 
cleared,  on  whose  authority,  and  for  what  reason. 

Cambria  Steel  Com-pany. — It  would  appear  that  a  shipment  of  steel  was  made 
from  Johnstown,  Penn.,  amounting  to  $15,015.82,  for  which  invoices  were  rendered 
giving  the  car  numbers  and  waybills.  Seven  days  later  another  alleged  shipment 
was  made  giving  the  same  car  number  and  amount.  Both  of  these  alleged  ship- 
ments were  paid  for.  It  will  be  necessary  to  make  a  complete  analysis  of  the 
Cambria  Steel  Company's  account  at  point  of  origin,  and  compare  same  with  the 
account  on  the  Du  Font  Engineering  Co.'s  books  at  Wilmington,  Del.,  as  it  is 
inconceivable  that  the  steel  company  could  make  two  shipments  identical  in 
weight  and  amount  in  the  same  car  in  a  space  of  seven  days,  as  the  particular  car 
being  shipped  by  freight  could  not  be  returned  from  the  plant  to  point  of  ship- 
ment and  again  arrive  back  at  the  plant  with  another  shipment  in  one  week. 

The  foregoing  indicates  some  evidence  of  criminal  and  civil  liability  and  that  if 
an  investigation  of  a  thorough  nature  were  made  millions  of  dollars  might  be 
recovered  by  the  Government. 

The  investigation  to  be  made  would  have  to  be  concentrated  at  three  points, 
viz.:   Nashville,  Tenn.;  Wilmington,  Delaware;  and  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Nashville. — At  the  Old  Hickory  plant  there  are  a  number  of  books  and  records 
by  no  means  complete,  for  the  reason  that  some  of  them  have  been  destroyed, 
but  there  are  many  files,  containing  copies  of  the  Mason  &  Hanger  invoices 
(subcontractors),  carbon  copies  of  work  vouchers  of  the  Du  Pont  Engineering 
Co.,  and  miscellaneous  material  on  construction.  These,  however,  are  only 
about  60%  of  the  total  material  receipt  cards,  both  original  and  fabricated 
(made  up),  freight  records  of  railroad  companies,  automobile  purchases  (local 
dealers),  books  of  hospitals  and  undertakers,  books  of  local  lumber  companies, 
and  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Co.'s  bank  account. 

In  the  opinion  of  your  accountant  the  investigation  of  these  various  concerns 
will  have  to  be  made  in  order  to  run  out  the  various  leads  that  we  have  before  us. 

Wilmington. — At  the  office  of  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  are  supposed  to  be 
the  original  vouchers,  cancelled  checks,  private  wires,  correspondence,  and  all 
other  supporting  papers  pertaining  to  the  construction  and  operation  of  the 
Old  Hickory  powder  plant.  All  vouchers  and  cancelled  checks  must  be  examined 
and  carefully  scrutinized  to  determine  whether  any  collusion  or  overpayments 
have  been  made. 


3352  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Philadelphia. — At  the  Frankford  Arsenal  are  supposed  to  be  all  the  records  of 
the  Ordnance  Department  in  connection  with  the  construction  of  the  plant  at 
Nashville.     These  records  must  be  thoroughly  investigated. 

The  investigation. — In  the  course  of  the  investigation  it  will  be  necessary  to 
ascertain  the  names  of  the  subsidiary  companies  of  the  Du  Fonts,  then  examine 
in  those  companies  from  whom  the  greater  volume  of  purchases  was  made, 
ascertain  their  profits,  and  show  how  they  were  related  to  the  general  Du  Pont 
Company.  It  will  also  be  necessary  to  determine  from  the  books  of  the  sub- 
sidiary companies  whether  the  prices  charged  to  the  Government  were  in  excess 
of  those  charged  to  private  individuals.  We  must  ascertain  from  competitors 
whether  their  prices  for  the  same  class  of  materials  were  less  than  those  charged 
by  the  Du  Pont  subsidiaries. 

It  will  be  necessary  to  check  up  the  car  records  of  the  various  railroad  companies 
for  all  payments  of  freights,  rates,  etc.  This  will  entail  considerable  work.  We 
must  determine  vrhether  or  not  the  funds  in  bank  on  deposit  earned  interest  on, 
balances,  and,  if  so,  did  the  Government  receive  the  benefit  thereof.  In  the 
banks  in  which  funds  were  deposited,  we  must  ascertain  whether  the.y  were  Du 
Pont  banks,  or  those  with  which  they  were  affiliated.  We  must  ascertain  whether 
or  not  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  in  paying  bills  took  advantage  of  all  cash 
discounts  and  whether  the  Government  received  the  proper  credit. 

Apparently  very  few  claims,  if  any,  were  made  for  shortages,  but  a  cursory 
examination  shows  that  no  attention  was  paid  to  claims  for  shortages,  and  when 
a  shortage  was  called  to  their  attention  it  was  disregarded  and  the  invoice  was 
paid  in  full. 

Special  agent  in  charge  Towler,  at  Nashville,  wrote  to  a  number  of  the  con- 
signors of  material  relative  to  damage  claims  and  received  replies  from  about  75 
that  no  claims  were  filed  against  them  for  shortage. 

It  also  appears  that  large  bonuses  were  paid  to  emplo3-ees  and  that  a  number  of 
the  emplovees  were  overpaid.  With  reference  to  bonuses  one  voucher  alone 
amounted  to  $250,000.00. 

In  many  instances  it  was  found  that  employees  of  the  powder  plant  were  sub- 
sequently employed  by  the  Du  Fonts  and  that  a  number  of  those  employed  at  the 
plant  were  previously  in  the  employ  of  the  Du  Fonts. 

It  further  appears  that  at  the  signing  of  the  Armistice  the  Du  Fonts  began 
unloading  their  surplus  stocks  on  the  Old  Hickory  plant,  but  these  transactions 
will  have  to  be  thoroughly  investigated  to  determine  when  the  material  was 
ordered  and  whether  same  was  properly  charged  to  the  plant. 

A  number  of  items  properly  chargeable  to  operation  were  incorrectly  charged  to 
construction.  This  would  make  construction  cost  high,  and  operation  cost  low, 
which  -would  be  to  their  advantage.  There  are  manj-  matters  to  be  gone  into, 
but  this  memorandum  will  give  you  an  idea  of  the  general  situation. 

In  the  proper  conduct  of  this  investigation  it  will  be  necessarj'  to  have  at  least 
ten  special  agents  to  run  out  the  various  leads,  and  as  many  accountants,  if  not 
more,  to  work  at  the  various  places  in  checking  out  the  many  voluminous  records 
involved. 

It  is  further  suggested  that  the  investigation  be  started  simultaneously  at  the 
various  places  so  that  there  will  be  no  opportunity  to  destroy  or  misplace  records. 

In  conclusion  the  men  who  are  selected  to  make  this  investigation  must  be 
thoroughly  reliable  and  experienced  in  this  class  of  work. 

Geo.  W.  Storck, 
Expert  bank  accountant. 

Exhibit  No.  1191 

[Exhibit  A] 

Office  of  the  Attorney  General, 

Washington,  D.  C,  August  5,  1925. 
00160/28592, 
Du  Font  Co. 
The  Honorable,  the  Secretary  of  War. 

My  Dear  Mr.  Secretary:  Heretofore  you  have  referred  to  the  Department 
of  Justice  for  study  and  investigation  certain  criminal  charges  against  the  Du 
Pont  Engineering  Corporation  in  connection  with  its  performance  of  certain  war 
contracts  with  the  Government.  A  reference  of  the  case  to  this  department  was 
also  recommended  by  a  committee  of  the  Joint  Board  of  Survey,  of  which  the 
chairman  was  the  Assistant  Secretarv  of  War. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  3353 

Since,  however,  you  indicated  in  your  letter  of  May  23,  1924,  that  upon  the 
determination  of  the  question  of  criminaUty  you  desired  the  case  returned  to 
your  department  for  administrative  settlement  of  the  contracts  involved,  I  have 
ordered  the  files  returned  to  the  War  Department. 

An  extensive  investigation  of  the  charges  of  fraud  or  crime  above  referred  to 
has  failed  to  disclose  reasonable  or  probable  grounds  for  believing  that  during  the 
performance  of  the  contracts  in  question  tlie  Du  Pont  Company  committed  the 
offenses  with  which  it  has  been  charged,  or  any  crimes,  and  in  my  opinion  there  is 
no  warrant  either  for  further  investigation  along  these  lines  or  for  the  institution 
of  proceedings  against  the  company  based  upon  charges  of  fraud  or  crime. 

However,  in  the  course  of  this  department's  investigation,  its  attention  was 
called  to  and  it  inade  a  study  of  certain  expenditures  of  the  Du  Pont  Company. 
On  the  basis  of  the  information  before  me,  I  have  concluded  that  there  is  grave 
doubt  as  to  such  expenditures  being  properly  chargeable  against  the  Government. 

1  therefore  felt  it  my  duty  to  call  them  to  your  attention,  especially  since,  in  your 
letter  of  May  23,  1924,  you  invite  my  advice  on  any  phases  of  the  matter  which 
may  become  the  subject  of  special  study  by  this  department. 

The  expenditures  which  I  have  in  mind  may  be  classified  as  follows: 

1.  So-called  "Meritorious  bonuses." 

2.  Thirty  days'  pay  on  discharge  of  men  empIo3^ed  on  the  work. 

3.  Return  transportation  and  moving  expenses  furnished  employees  to  the 
places  from  which  they  had  come  in  order  to  engage  in  the  vrork. 

Payments  made  to  discharged  employees  for  living  expenses  after  they  arrived 
at  their  home  stations  and  the  cost  of  returning  their  families  to  their  homes, 
would,  in  my  opinion  be  governed  by  the  same  principles  as  the  items  numbered 

2  and  3  above. 

4.  Payments  to  banks  for  losses  which  the  banks  sustained  in  establishing 
branches  at  the  points  at  which  work  was  being  performed  under  the  contracts. 

5.  A  sum  variously  stated  as  $45,572.27  or  $42,354.98,  being  the  excess  of  the 
price  of  certain  cotton  shavings  above  the  price  prescribed  by  the  contract. 

6.  Expenses  incurred  by  the  contractor  in  the  course  of  the  Government's 
audit. 

My  reasons  for  believing  that  on  the  basis  of  the  information  in  mj^  possession 
there  is  grave  doubt  as  to  propriety  of  charging  the  Government  with  the  expendi- 
tures above  mentioned,  are  very  briefly  as  follows: 

1.  Meritorious  bonuses.  Some  reasonable  sanction  for  each  payment  must 
be  found  within  the  contract  or  else  such  paj^ment  was  not  properly  chargeable 
to  the  United  States.  The  language  of  article  II  seems  to  have  been  relied  on  by 
the  Du  Pont  Company  as  supporting  this  class  of  bonus  payments.  Article  II, 
it  will  be  remembered,  deals  exclusively  with  the  construction  of  the  plant,  not 
with  its  operation  after  completion.     Article  II  reads  as  follows: 

"The  contractor  is  hereby  authorized  to  do  all  things  necessary  or  convenient 
in  and  about  the  construction  of  the  plant  including  the  purchase  and  procure- 
ment of  all  materials  and  labor  necessary  therefore,  *  *  *_  ji^  order  that  the 
contractor  may  expedite  the  work  of  construction  it  may,  in  its  discretion,  from 
time  to  time,  pay  extra  compensation  for  materials  or  services  subject,  however, 
to  the  approval  of  the  contracting  officer,  which  extra  compensation  shall  be 
charged  to  the  cost  of  construction." 

I  will  not  discuss  in  detail  the  reasons  for  my  conclusion  that  article  II  applies 
to  construction  only  and  not  to  operation,  but  if  I  am  correct  in  this,  it  follows  that 
no  authority  can  be  found  therein  for  any  part  of  these  bonus  payments  made  to 
operating,  as  distinguished  from  construction,  employees. 

As  far  as  such  payments  to  construction  employees  are  concerned,  I  have  seen 
no  evidence  except  the  unsupported  statement  of  the  company  that  such  bonuses 
were  paid  pursuant  to  any  agreement  between  the  recipients  and  the  company, 
made  when  such  recipients  were  emploj'ed  or  subsequently,  to  the  effect  that  at 
the  end  of  the  work  they  would  receive  a  bonus  for  meritorious  services.  If  it 
turns  out  that  no  such  agreements  were  made  or  can  be  proved,  then  I  question 
whether  the  Du  Pont  Company  could  charge  the  amount  of  this  bonus  against 
the  Government  on  the  theory  that  it  expedited  the  work.  Moreover,  on  the 
company's  own  statement,  so  far  as  my  information  extends,  the  only  promises 
which  they  claim  to  have  made  to  their  employees  were  that  the  men  trans- 
ferred from  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Company  to  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  were 
not  to  lose  their  status  as  employees  of  the  former  or  their  eligibility  to  a  bonus 
or  extra,  compensation  under  the  system  prevailing  in  the  former  company. 
But  I  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  the  system  of  bonsuses  of  the  parent  or 
E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Company  did  not  contemplate  the  payment  of  cash 


3354  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

bonuses  under  such  circumstances  as  those  arising  under  the  Du  Pont  Engineering 
Company's  contracts  and  did  not  involve  the  positive  obligation  to  pay  bonuses 
at  all.  The  parent  company  did  pay  cash  bonuses  as  a  reward  for  inventions  or 
conspicuous  service,  but  these  were  paid  on  an  entirely  different  theory  from  the 
bonus  now  in  question. 

Article  II  authorizes  the  payment  of  extra  compensation  for  the  purpose  of 
expediting  the  work.  A  bonus  after  the  conclusion  of  the  work  pursuant  to  no 
prior  agreement  coud  not  have  had  that  effect.  Except  article  II,  I  find  nothing 
in  the  contract  which  expressly  or  impliedly  perm  ts  the  payment  of  bonuses  or 
extra  compensation,  or  which,  in  the  absence  of  previous  agreement  with  the 
recipients,  would  make  the  bonus  contracts  legal  charges  against  the  United 
States. 

I  realize  that  the  contracting  officer  approved  the  meritorious  bonus  before 
payment  and  approved  or  ratified  the  other  bonuses  after  payment  under  the 
contract.  However,  he  had  no  authority  to  approve  payments  of  extra  com- 
pensation unless  made  to  expedite  the  work  of  construction.  If  not  made  for 
that  purpose,  his  approval  would  be  without  warrant  in  the  contract.  Never- 
theless, in  view  of  the  broad  terms  of  the  contract,  the  length  of  time  which  has 
elapsed  since  the  payments  were  made,  the  enormous  task  performed  by  the 
contractor,  the  urgent  necessity  for  not  disturbing  the  labor  market  by  turning 
loose  upon  it  numbers  of  penniless  men,  and  the  possibility  that  under  such 
circumstances  a  court  might  be  inclined  to  indulge  ever}-  intendment  in  favor 
of  the  Du  Pont  Company,  the  contracting  officer's  approval  or  ratification  of 
the  bonus  payments  might  possibly  be  regarded  as  conclusive  of  the  purpose  for 
which  they  were  made  and  as  binding  upon  the  Government.  Accordingly,  I 
do  not  feel  that  in  case  of  a  legal  action  to  recover  the  amount  of  this  bonus 
payment  the  Governnaent  could  feel  absolutely  assurance  of  success. 

2.  Thirty  days'  pay  on  discharge. 

3.  Return  transportation  and  moving  expenses. 

These  two  classes  of  bonus  payments,  in  my  opinion  are  governed  by  the 
same  consideration  as  the  so-called  "meritorious  bonus." 

4.  Payments  to  banks.  Should  it  be  established  to  your  satisfaction  that 
these  payments  were  made  pursuant  to  agreements  between  the  Du  Pont  Com- 
pany and  the  respective  recipients  antedating  the  performance  by  the  banks  of 
the  services  for  which  the  payments  were  made,  I  think  they  would  be  proper 
charges  against  the  Government.  The  facts  presented  to  me,  however,  fall  short 
of  establishing  this.  One  of  these  claims,  amounting  to  approximately  $7,000, 
appears  to  have  been  at  one  time  withdrawn  by  the  Du  Pont  Company  itself. 
Another,  amounting  to  approximately  $33,000  was  denied  by  various  War 
Department  boards  and  on  appeal  the  denial  was  affirmed.  It  was  paid  by  the 
Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  only  after  these  denials.  In  the  absence  of 
proof,  such  as  is  not  contained  in  the  files  before  me,  to  the  effect  that  these 
banks  were  entitled  to  he  repaid  their  losses  under  a  preexisting  agreement  with 
the  Du  Pont  Company,  I  question  that  these  payments  constitute  proper  charges 
against  the  Government. 

5.  Excess  price  of  cotton  shavings.  The  contract  prescribed  limits  for  the 
price  to  be  paid  by  the  Du  Pont  Company  for  these  shavings.  The  contractor 
exceeded  this  price  but  relies  on  a  letter  from  the  War  Department  authorizing 
and  permitting  an  increase  in  that  price.  That  letter,  while  doubtless  sufficient 
authority  for  making  subsequent  purchases  at  the  increased  price,  in  my  opinion 
does  not  support  the  contention  of  the  contractor  that  the  increase  in  price  was 
to  be  retroactive. 

6.  Contractor's  audit  expenses.  I  suggest  for  your  consideration  that  if  the 
expenditures  of  the  contractor  in  the  course  of  the  Government's  audit  were 
made  primarily  for  the  purpose,  not  of  furthering  and  helping  that  audit  and  of 
furnishing  information  to  the  Government,  but,  on  the  contrary,  of  opposing 
the  Government's  audit,  and  of  defending  against  and  refuting  such  claims  as 
the  Government  might  raise  against  the  company,  the  legality  of  charging  the 
contractor's  expenses  in  this  audit  against  the  Government  would  be  open  to 
serious  question.  This  becomes  a  question  of  fact,  of  course,  and  I  have  not 
sufficient  information  before  me  to  enable  me  to  determine  the  matter. 

You  will  appreciate  that  this  letter  contains  only  a  brief  summary  of  the 
reasons  for  my  opinion  as  to  the  items  mentioned.  If,  in  the  course  of  your 
administrative  settlement  of  this  case  or  at  any  other  time,  you  desire  a  more 
full  statement  of  these  reasons,  or  if  this  Department  can  be  of  any  service  to 
you  in  that  connection,  I  shall  be  glad  to  have  you  call  upon  me. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3355 

In  passing,  I  also  note  that  the  War  Department  has  disallowed  claims  of  the 
contractor  for  general  overhead  expense  of  the  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Com- 
pany, and  for  an  adjustment  of  profits  on  the  bonus  for  saving  amounting  to 
$55,862.28,  due  to  the  manner  in  which  freight  between  Nashville  and  Jackson- 
ville, Tenn.,  had  been  accounted  for  bj^  the  contractor.  Both  of  these  disallow- 
ances are,  in  my  opinion,  correct  under  the  contracts. 

In  conclusion,  may  I  emphasize  the  fact  that,  in  accordance  with  my  imder- 
standing  of  your  wishes,  expressed  in  your  letter  of  May  23,  1924,  this  Depart- 
ment has  made  no  general  investigation  into  the  payments  made  to  the  Du  Pont 
Company  in  the  course  of  its  ivork  under  the  contracts  in  question.  I  am  therefore 
making  no  suggestions  as  to  the  propriety  of  any  payments  except  the  ones 
above  mentioned.  Furthermore,  this  Department  has  for  obvious  reasons  made 
no  effort  to  pass  upon  the  accuracy  or  completeness  of  the  War  Department's  audit 
in  this  case,  except  that,  incident  to  this  Department's  investigation  of  the 
general  payments  above  referred  to,  its  accountants  determined  the  amounts 
paid  on  account  of  the  so-called  ''meritorious"  and  "discharge"  bonuses. 
Sincerely  yours, 

(Sgd)     John  G.  Sargent, 

Attorney  General. 

Exhibit  No.  1192 

Comptroller  General  of  the  United  States, 

Washington,  July  10,  1925. 
A-3897 
The  Honorable  the  Attorney  General. 

My  Dear  Mr.  Attorney  General:  I  have  the  honor  to  call  your  attention 
to  my  letter  of  April  18,  1925,  in  matters  pertaining  to  the  indebtedness  to  the 
United  States  of  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  on  whose  bond  the  E.  I. 
du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  is  surety,  and  to  state  that  no  reply  has  been 
received  to  my  said  letter. 

This  office  is  especially  desirous  of  closing  up  the  audit  of  the  accounts  of  the 
du  Pont  Engineering  Company",  but  it  cannot  do  so  until  the  accounts  are  re- 
ceived from  the  War  Department,  and  the  Secretary  of  War  advises  that  the 
accounts  cannot  be  transmitted  to  this  office  until  the  case  is  returned  by  your 
Department  with  a  report  of  the  result  of  its  investigations  as  requested  by  the 
War  Department.  It  has  now  been  six  years  since  the  transactions  out  of  which 
the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  indebtedness  arose  occurred,  and  it  would 
seem  that  a  final  determination  of  all  matters  involved  should  be  made  as  speedily 
as  possible,  and  it  is  to  this  end  that  I  am  calling  vour  attention  to  the  unanswered 
letter  of  April  17,  1925. 

In  this  connection  I  would  also  call  attention  to  the  statement  contained  in 
the  concluding  paragraph  of  your  letter  of  September  10,  1924,  and  recjuest  to 
be  informed  of  the  character  of  such  indebtedness,  how  it  has  been  determined, 
and  whether  it  is  considered  by  the  Department  of  Justice  as  still  standing  against 
either  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  or  the  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  & 
Company. 

Your  early  attention  to  this  and  previous  letters  will  be  greatly  appreciated. 
Sincerely  yours, 

J.  R.  McCarl, 
Comptroller  General  of  the  United  States. 


Exhibit  No.  1193 

General  Accounting  Office, 
Office  of  the  Comptroller  General  of  the  United  States, 

Washington,  October  23,  1925. 
(Stamped:)  Recorded. 
A-3897 
The  Honorable  the  Attorney  General. 

Sir:  By  your  letter  of  July  24,  1925,  you  informed  this  office  that  the  case  of 
the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  would  probably  be  closed  so  far  as  your 
department  was  concerned  within  a  comparatively  short  time,  and  that  when 
a  final  determination  had  been  made  as  to  the  matters  to  be  reported  to  the 
War  Department,  you  would  communicate  to  this  office  the  character  of  any 

83876— 35— PT  14 13 


3356  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

indebtedness  which  your  department  considered  to  exist  against  the  du  Pont 
Engineering  Company  in  favor  of  the  United  States,  how  it  has  been  determined, 
and  whether  it  is  considered  by  your  department  as  still  standing  against  either 
the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  or  the  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Company. 

As  no  further  information  about  the  matter  has  been  received,  I  have  the 
honor  to  request  the  present  status  of  the  matters  before  your  department,  and 
if  it  is  possible  to  indicate  when  a  determination  will  be  reached,  request  is  made 
that  this  office  be  informed  about  it. 

The  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Company  is  writing  about  matters  of  claim 
which  cannot  be  determined  until  the  matters  pending  before  your  department 
are  settled.  It  would  be  appreciated,  therefore,  if  the  office  may  be  advised  at 
some  early  date. 

Respectfully, 

LXJRTIN  R.  GiNN, 

Assistant  Comptroller  of  the  United  States. 


Exhibit  No.  1194 

(PSA/dd    70-240-187J 

October  26,  1925. 
Hon.  LuRTiN  R.  GiNN, 

Assistant  Comptroller  General, 

Washington,  D.  C. 
My  Dear  Sir:  Your  letter  of  October  23  to  the  Attorney  General  has  been 
referred  to  this  office.  The  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  case  has  been  trans- 
ferred to  the  War  Department  for  further  action  and  for  administrative  deter- 
mination. The  amount,  if  any,  which  may  be  found  to  be  due  from  that  company 
to  the  United  States,  so  far  as  this  department  is  informed,  has  not  yet  been 
decided  upon  by  the  War  Department. 
Respectfully  yours, 

Paul  Shipman  Andrews,  Director. 


Exhibit  No.   1195 

[Copy] 

No. Ordnance  Office,  Washington,  D.C, 

No. Arsenal. 

The  United  States  of  America  and  du  Pont  Engineering  Company 

ordnance  department 

ARSENAL 

or 

ORDNANCE  OFFICE 

Settlement  contract  for  War  Ord.  P4755-711E,  War  Ord.  P2337-1228A,  War 
Ord.  P3509-643E,  War  Ord.  P9050-960E,  War  Ord.  P15271-1433E 

Dated  October  31,  1925 

This  contract  made  this  thirty-first  day  of  October,  1925,  between  du  Pont 
Engineering  Company,  a  corporation  organized  and  existing  under  and  by  virtue 
of  the  laws  of  the  State  of  Delaware,  and  having  an  office  at  Wilmington,  Dela- 
ware (hereinafter  called  "Contractor"),  party  of  the  first  part,  and  the  United 
States  of  America,  by  P.  J.  O'Shaughnessy,  Major,  United  States  Army,  retired 
(hereinafter  called  "Contracting  officer"),  acting  by  and  under  the  authority  of 
the  Chief  of  Ordnance,  United  States  Army,  and  under  the  direction  of  the 
Secretary  of  War,  party  of  the  second  part: 

Witnesseth:  Whereas,  certain  contracts  were  entered  into  between  the  con- 
tractor and  the  United  States  of  America,  for  the  construction  and/or  operation 
of  certain  munition  plants  for  the  United  States,  as  follows: 

Contract  War  Ord.  P4755-711E,  dated  March  23,  1918,  for  the  construction 
and  operation  of  a  smokeless  powder  plant  near  Nashville,  Tennessee; 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3357 

Contract  War  Ord.  P2337-1228A,  dated  April  12,  1918,  for  the  construction 
and  operation  of  a  loading  plant  for  shells  and  casings  at  Penniman,  Virginia; 

Contract  War.  Ord.  P3509-643E,  dated  Mafch  2,  1918,  for  the  operation  of  a 
bag-loading  plant  at  Tullytown,  Pennsylvania; 

Contract  War  Ord.  P9050-960E,  dated  June  1,  1918,  for  the  operation  of  a 
bag-loading  plant  at  Seven  Pines,  Virginia; 

Contract  War  Ord.  P15271-1433E,  dated  October  2,  1918,  for  the  construction 
and  operation  of  a  plant  for  the  manufacture  of  trinitrotoluol,  at  or  near  Racine, 
Wisconsin; 

And  whereas,  subsequent  to  the  signing  of  the  armistice  on  November  11,  1918,- 
the  United  States  suspended  all  of  the  contracts  aforesaid  because  the  need  for 
the  plants  and  the  output  thereof  had  ceased  to  exist;  and 

Whereas,  early  in  the  year  1919  the  United  States  took  over  all  of  the  plants, 
the  construction  and/or  operation  of  which  was  covered  by  the  contracts  aforesaid, 
together  with  all  machinery,  equipment,  and  materials;  and 

Whereas,  the  contractor  has  fulfilled  and  performed  all  and  singular  the  con- 
ditions, covenants,  and  provisions  of  the  contracts  aforesaid  and  all  agreements 
and  orders  supplementary  thereto;  and 

Whereas,  it  is  in  the  public  interest  to  terminate  all  of  the  contracts  aforesaid, 
and  the  execution  of  this  contract  is  in  the  financial  interest  of  the  United  States. 

Now,  therefore,  in  consideration  of  the  premises  and  of  the  mutal  covenants 
herein  contained,  the  parties  hereto  have  agreed  and  by  these  presents  do  agree 
with  each  other  as  follows: 

Article  I.  This  contract  supersedes  and  takes  the  place  of  each  and  all  of  the 
contracts  aforesaid,  and  all  agreements  and  orders  supplementary  thereto,  all  of 
which  are  hereby  terminated;  and  wherever  the  words  "contracts  aforesaid"  are 
hereinafter  used  in  this  agreement,  said  term  shall  include  the  original  contracts 
specified  on  pages  1  and  2  hereof,  and  all  agreements  and  orders  supplementary 
to  said  original  contracts,  except  this  agreement. 

Article  II.  The  United  States  acknowledges  that  all  property,  both  real  and 
personal,  of  every  character  and  description,  involved  under  the  contracts  afore- 
said has  been  properly  accounted  for  by  the  contractor  to  the  United  States, 
and  has  been  taken  over  by  the  United  States. 

Article  III.  The  contractor  shall  forthwith  pay  to  the  United  States  the  sum 
of  three  hundred  fifty-two  thousand  eight  hundred  forty  dollars  and  thirty-five 
cents  ($352,840.35),  which  amount  shall  constitute  full  and  final  recoupment  of 
all  funds  received  by  the  contractor  from  and  for  account  of  the  United  States 
under  the  contracts  aforesaid,  the  said  amount  being  determined  as  of  October 
31,  1925,  as  follows: 

Contract  P4755-711E,  "Old  Hickory" 

Cash  advances  by  U.  S.  to  May  31,  1922 $37,  329,  000.  00 

Cash  reimbursements  by  U.  S.  to  May  31,  1922 72,  565,  801.  34 

Interest  and  credits  accruing  to  U.  S."to  May  31,  1922 383,  470.  48 

Interest  and  credits  accruing  to  U.  S.,  May  31,  1922,  to  Oct. 

31,  1925 49,318.  16 

Total  credits  to  U.  S 110,  327,  589.  98 

Approved  costs,  construction,  May  31,  1922 83,  583,  674.  72 

Approved  costs,  operation,  Mav  31,  1922 22,  238,  461.  51 

Approved  profits.  May  31,  1922 1,  961,  805.  50 

Refunds  to  U.  S.,  May  31,  1922 1,  600,  497.  77 

Approved  costs,  Mav  31,  1922,  to  Oct.  31,  1925 53,  493.  40 

Refunds  to  U.  S.,  Oct.  31,  1925 614,  150.  81 

Total  debits  to  U.  S 110,  052,  083.  71 

Balance  due  U.  S.  Oct.  31,  1925,  contract  P-4755,  "Old 

Hickory" 275,506.  27 


3358  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Contract  P2SS7-1228A,  "Penniman" 

Cash  advances  bv  U.  S.  to  May  31,  1922 $2,  545,  629.  87 

Cash  reimbursements  by  U.  S.  to  May  31,  1922 13,  361,  177.  64 

Interest  and  credits  accruing  to  U.  S.'to  May  31,  1922 30,  239.  31 

Interest  and  credits  accruing  to  U.  S.,  Mav  31,  1922,  to  Oct.  31, 

1925 1 8,  204.  46 

Total  credits  to  U.  S 15,  945,  251.  28 

-Approved  costs,  construction,  to  May  31,  1922 11,  922,  629.  44 

Approved  costs,  operation,  to  Mav  31,  1922 3,  302,  139.  39 

Approved  profits,  to  May  31,  1922 399,  728.  67 

Refunds  to  U.  S.  to  Mav  31,  1922 200,  000.  00 

Approved  costs.  May  31,  1922,  to  Oct.  31,  1925 1,  501.  46 

Eefunds  to  U.  S.,  Oct.  31,  1925 55,  692.  00 

Total  debits  to  U.  S 15,  881,  690.  96 

Net  balance  due  U.  S.  Oct.  31,   1925,  contract  P2337- 

1228A,  "Penniman" 63,  560.  32 

Contract  P3509-643E,  "  Tullytown" 

Cash  advances  bv  U.  S.  to  Mav  31,  1922 630,  000.  00 

Cash  reimbursements  by  U.  S.  to  May  31,  1922 1,  191,  297.  22 

Interest  &  credits  accruing  to  U.  S.  to  Mav  31,  1922 2,  942.  26 

Credits  accruing  to  U.  S.,  May  31,  1922,  to  Oct.  31,  1925 44.  42 

Total  credits  to  U.  S 1,  824,  283.  90 

Approved  costs,  operation,  Mav  31,  1922 1,  633,  170.  35 

Approved  profits,  Mav  31,  1922 188,  839.  17 

Approved  costs.  May  31,  1922,  to  Oct.  31,  1925 1,  389.  90 

Total  debits  to  U.  S 1,  823,  399.  42 

Net  balance  due  U.  S.,  Oct.  31,  1925  (contract  P3509- 

643E,  "Tullytown") 884.  48 

Contract  P9050-960E,  "Seven  Pines" 

Cash  advances  by  U.  S.  to  Mav  31,  1922 630,  000.  00 

Cash  reimbursements  by  U.  S.  to  May  31,  1922 621,  709.  98 

Interest  &  credits  accruing  to  U.  S.  to  May  31,  1922 4,  349.  35 

Interest  &  credits  accruing  to  U.  S.,  May  31,  1922,  to  Oct.  31, 

1925 579.  70 

Total  credits  to  U.  S 1,256,639.03 

Approved  costs,  operation,  Mav  31,  1922 1,  125,  852.  22 

Approved  profits.  May  31,  1922 120,  354.  17 

Approved  costs,  May  31,  1922,  to  Oct.  31,  1925 2,  659.  05 

Total  debits  to  U.  S 1,  248,  865.  44 

Net  balance  due  U.  S.,  Oct.  31,  1925  (contract  P9050- 

960E  "Seven  Pines") 7,773.59 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTKY  3359 

Contract  P15S71-1433E,  "Ives" 

Cash  advances  bv  U.  S.,  May  31,  1922 $4,  200,  000.  00 

Interest  &  credits  accruing  to  U.  S.,  May  31,  1922 94,  453.  34 

Credits  accruing  to  U.  S.,  May  31,  1922,  to  Oct.  31,  1925 7,  915.  73 

Total  credits  to  U.  S 4,  302,  369.  07 

Approved  costs,  construction.  May  31,  1922 2,  639,  150.  14 

Refunds  to  U.  S.,  Mav  31,  1922 1,  524,  000.  00 

Approved  costs.  May  31,  1922,  to  Oct.  31,  1925 2.  47 

Refunds  to  U.  S.,  Oct.  31,  1925 134,  100.  77 

Total  debits  to  U.  S 4,  297,  253.  38 

Net  balance  due  U.  S.,  Oct.  31,  1925 5,  115.  69 

SUMMARY 

Contract  P4755-711E,  balance  due  U.  S 275,  506.  27 

Contract  P2337-1228A,  balance  due  U.  S 63,  560.  32 

Contract  P3509~643E,  balance  due  U.  S 884.  48 

Contract  P9050-960E,  balance  due  U.  S 7,  773.  59 

Contract  P15271-1433E,  balance  due  U.  S 5,  115.  69 

Total  balance  due  U.  S.,  Oct.  31,  1925 352,  840.  35 

Article  IV.  Payment  by  the  contractor  to  the  United  States  of  the  aforesaid 
sum  of  three  hundred  fifty-two  thousand  eight  hundred  forty  dollars  and  thirty- 
five  cents  ($352,840.35)  shall  constitute  full  and  complete  satisfaction  and  termi- 
nation of  any  and  all  claims  and  demands  in  law  or  in  equity  by  or  on  behalf  of 
the  United  States  against  the  contractor,  and/or  by  the  contractor  against  the 
United  States,  in  connection  with  each  and  all  of  the  contracts  aforesaid. 

Article  V.  This  contract  shall  not  become  valid  and  binding  on  either  party 
hereto,  until  the  approval  of  the  Secretary  of  War  is  noted  at  the  end  hereof. 

In  witness  whereof,  the  parties  hereto  have  caused  this  agreement  to  be  duly 
executed,  in  septuple,  by  their  authorized  officers  as  of  the  daj^  and  year  first 
above  written. 
Attest. 

Du   Pont   Engineering    Company, 

Contracto?'. 
By  (S)     H.   M.   Pierce,  President. 

(S)     E.  A.  Howard,  Assist.  Secretary. 
United  States  of  America, 
By  (S)     P.  J.  O'Shaughnessy, 

Major,  U.  S.  Army,  Retired,  contracting  officer. 
(S)     Onalee  Hall  Swain, 
Approved. 

(S)     Hanford  MacNider, 

Acting  Secretary  of  War. 


Exhibit  No.  1196 

[File  X-1341 

Executive  Secy.'s  No.  8625  Committee 
December  18,   1922. 
Report  for  November  1922 
To  Executive  Committee 
From  Government  Claims  Division 

In  recent  months  we  have  listed  in  the  reports  as  outstanding  certain  amounts 
representing  claims  on  suspended  war  contracts  and  a  few  counter  claims  which 
we  were  forced  to  satisfy  under  protest,  in  order  to  obtain  payment  of  much 
larger  sums  of  money  on  other  suspended  contracts.  In  addition  to  these  accounts 
others  have  developed  on  which  we  are  attempting,  with  the  assistance  of  the 
legal  department  in  most  cases,  to  make  collection.  As  of  November  30th  the 
accounts  on  which  we  were  working  are  as  follows: 


3360  MUNITIOKS   INDUSTRY 

Now  the  subject  of  suit  in  Court  of  Claims 

Claim,  contract  604,  powder  boxes $726,  551.  35 

Claims  and  accounts  now  before  Comptroller  General,  on  which  payment  is  withheld 

Claim,  contract  443,  tetryl $10,  967.  60 

Claim,  contract  577,  tetryl 1,  837.  92 

Claim,  contract  500,  amm.  picrate 972.  86 

Claim,  contract  572,  amm.  picrate 3,  060.  53 

Storage  contract  287 7,  300.  00 

Storage  contract  307,  repairs 1,  313.  72 

Storage  contract  307,  storage 82.  78 

Refund  of  counterclaim  591 94.  65 

Refund  of  counterclaim  380 8,  205.  60 

Refund  of  counterclaim  381 2,  830.  50 

300  spools  of  wire 159.  98 

Carboys  retained  by  Edge  wood  Arsenal 4,1 86.  00 

Guard  Service  for  Navy  at  Carney's  Pt 5,  400.  00 

Storage  of  powder  for  Navy 3,  064.  73 

49,  476.  87 

Voucher  with  Phila.   District  Salvage  Board  for  Approval  and   Transmission,  to 

disbursing  officer 

Overdelivery  of  solid  caustic  soda  at  Government  selling  price  less  2>^%_  356.  95 
Claim  against  Quartermaster's  Dept.,  U.  S.  A.  for  rent 

Claim  of  Du  Pont  Bldg.  Corp.  for  occupancy  by  U.  S.  of  quarters 

at  Vandever  Ave.  in  July  and  August  1922 500.  00 

Total $776,885.  17 

Demands  from  United  States  on  which  payment  has  been  refused  by  Du  Pont  Co., 
but  not  dropped  by  the  United  States 

Alleged  damage  to  Gov't,  stock  of  linters,   shavings,   and  refined 

cotton  fiber  at  Hopewell $86,321.  84 

Payments  previously  made  by  U.  S.  for  repairs  to  buildings  at  Hope- 
well used  by  U.  S.  for  storage  of  soda,  contract  #307 3,  504.  27 

Shortages  occurring  during  storage  of  Gov't,  nyoil  and  castor  oil  at 

Pompton  Lakes 1,  164.  96 

Shortage  in  shipment  of  Gov't  TNT  to  Penniman 17,  952.  00 

Shortage  in  shipment  of  Gov't  ammonium  nitrate  to  Penniman 360.  81 

Alleged  shortage  of  31  4.7"  shells  in  shipment  from  Penniman 951.  70 

110,  255.  58 

Counter  claims  by  U.  S.  on  which  settlements  have  been  offered  by  Du  Pont  but  not 
yet  accepted  by  United  States 

Shortage  of  sulphuric  acid  and  overage  of  nitric  acid  at  HopeweU $4,  875.  96 

Shortage  of  hull  shavings  stored  at  East  St.  Louis 2,  319.  29 

7,  195.  25 

4:  4:  *  *  H<  *  * 

We  have  not  completed  the  testimony  on  the  suit  covering  the  claim  under 
contract  604  for  the  reason  that  it  has  not  been  convenient  for  the  Government 
attorney  to  meet  with  us.  It  is  now  planned  to  complete  the  taking  of  testimony 
early  in  January  1923. 

Of  the  claims  and  accounts  before  the  Comptroller  General  of  the  United  States 
for  settlement  and  payment,  some  have  been  tentatively  allowed  in  whole  or  in 
part,  but  payment  withheld  on  account  of  the  Du  Pont  Company  being  surety 
for  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company.  We  are  endeavoring  to  assist  the  legal 
department  in  the  preparation  of  briefs  on  these  claims  and  accounts  with  the 
idea  of  having  Comptroller  General  approve,  if  he  will,  the  amounts  due,  so  that 
when  the  Engineering  Company's  accounts  are  settled  the  Du  Pont  Company's 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3361 

bills  can  then  be  paid.  In  addition,  we  are  endeavoring  to  assist  the  legal  de- 
partment in  the  preparation  of  a  brief  or  appeal  to  the  Comptroller  General, 
asking  that  the  Du  Pont  Company's  accounts  be  paid  for  the  reason  that  the 
United  States  is  protected  in  the  case  of  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  by 
Du  Pont  Company's  bonds  on  the  advances  made  to  the  Engineering  Company. 
We  believe  it  unlikely  that  the  Comptroller  General  will  release  any  money  to 
the  Du  Pont  Company  so  long  as  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company's  accounts 
are  unsettled,  and  in  the  decisions  of  earlier  Comptrollers  and  in  certain  decisions 
of  the  courts,  the  Comptroller  has  some  authority  for  this  action.  So  long  as  the 
Comptroller  follows  the  plan  of  holding  up  payment  of  money  to  the  Du  Pont 
Company  it  would  be  a  misfortune  for  the  Du  Pont  Company  to  have  its  unpaid 
accounts  with  the  United  States  exceed  the  amount  of  unspent  United  States 
money  held  by  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company.  Should  the  Du  Pont  Company's 
unpaid  accounts  exceed  the  sum  of  money  held  by  the  Du  Pont  Engineering 
Company  the  Du  Pont  Company  might  then  be  forced  to  sue  in  the  Court  of 
Claims  for  the  amount  due  and  the  Government's  reply  would  undoubtedly 
throw  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company's  business  into  the  Court  of  Claims 
instead  of  into  the  local  Federal  court,  where  it  would  be  if  the  United  States 
eventually  sued  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company. 

The  demands  by  the  United  States  on  which  we  have  refused  payment  are 
familiar  to  the  committee  by  our  earlier  reports.  Nothing  new  has  transpired 
in  the  case  of  any  of  the  items. 

******* 

For  over  a  year  we  have  had  outstanding  an  offer  to  settle  with  the  United 
States  on  the  shortage  of  sulphuric  acid  and  overage  of  nitric  acid  at  Hopewell, 
but  to  date  no  officer  or  representative  of  the  United  States  seems  inclined  or 
empowered  to  settle.  We  have  recently  made  an  offer  of  settlement  on  a  short- 
age of  hull  shavings  in  the  amount  that  was  stored  at  East  St.  Louis,  111.  It 
develops  that  there  were  less  shavings  stored  there  than  were  paid  for  by  the 
United  States.  In  other  words,  our  claim  was  too  large.  In  view  of  the  fact 
that  the  United  States  is  holding  up  payments  to  the  Du  Pont  Company  we  plan 
to  refuse  payment  in  cash  of  these  two  settlements  unless  in  the  meantime  the 
United  States  has  resumed  cash  payments  to  us. 

The  expense  of  this  division  for  the  month  of  October  was  $1,361.95,  and  to 
date  for  the  year  1922,  $7,514.47. 

Du  Pont  Engineering  Company 

The  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company's  differences  with  the  War 
Department  are  as  follows: 

Mason  &  Hanger  fee $179,259.  79 

Du  Pont  Co.  charges  for  departmetal  expense 126,  071.  30 

Difference  in  calculation  of  profits 55,  862.  28 

Ford  car  purchased  for  employee  of  Rust  Eng.  Co.,  payment  to  du 

Pont  Engineering  Co.  not  located 515.  76 

Total 361,  709.  13 

In  addition  to  the  above  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company's  books  as  of 
May  31,  1922,  showed  differences  of  $27,622.20,  which  it  is  proposed  to  accept 
in  the  interest  of  settlement  if  the  War  Department  will  make  settlement  on  a 
basis  that  can  be  accepted. 

Last  month  it  was  reported  that  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War  declined  to 
revise  his  arbitrary  disallowance  of  $179,259.79  of  the  fee  paid  to  the  Mason  & 
Hanger  Co.,  on  the  subcontract  work  at  Old  Hickory.  The  Assistant  Secretary 
thought  that  the  second  contract  with  Mason  &  Hanger  made  after  the  change 
in  the  contract  between  the  Engineering  Co.  and  the  United  States  should  have 
cut  the  Mason  &  Hanger  fee  from  5%  to  2}^%  on  new  work,  and  therefore,  made 
this  disallowance. 

This  question  was  taken  by  Mr.  Haskell  and  Mr.  Gregg  to  Mr.  Weeks,  the 
Secretary  of  War  with  the  request  that  the  Secretary  lay  the  facts  before  the 
Attorney  General  of  the  United  States  with  the  request  for  an  opinion  and  advice. 
A  brief  presenting  the  facts  and  our  arguments  was  left  with  the  Secretary,  who 
promised  to  think  it  over  and  decide.  The  impression  was  obtained  that  the 
Secretary  had  previously  decided  that  he  would  not  reverse  the  Assistant  Secre- 
tary, but  seemed  somewhat  nonplussed  when  he  was  asked  by  us  to  seek  other 


3362  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

counsel  and  was  not  directly  requested  to  review  and  revise  the  Assistant  Secre- 
tary's opinion.  We  cannot  foretell  the  Secretary's  action.  He  may  send  it  to 
the  Attorney  General  or  he  may  not. 

The  other  item  of  $126,071.30  has  been  appealed  to  the  Secretary  of  War  and 
disallowed  by  him.  We  have  not  yet  said  whether  we  are  willing  to  accept  the 
disallowance. 

The  other  two  items  of  $55,862.28  and  $515.76  we  propose  dropping  from  the 
list  of  differences,  for  we  have  little  chance  of  winning  any  appeal  from  these  dis- 
allowances. 

It  should,  of  course,  be  remembered  that  in  case  no  settlement  is  effected  by 
amicable  procedure  and  in  the  event  that  the  Engineering  Company's  business 
is  finally  drawn  into  the  courts  either  by  the  United  States  or  by  us,  we  plan  to 
reinstate  and  stand  for  reimbursement  by  the  United  States  of  all  of  the  items  on 
which  we  have  agreed  to  accept  disallowance  in  the  interest  of  settlement,  except- 
ing, of  course,  those  items  where  some  mistake  was  involved  or  where  there  was 
no  authority  under  the  contract  for  the  kind  of  an  expenditure  that  was  made. 

Funds  on  hand  were:  November  30,  1922,  Government,  $947,674.96;  com- 
pany, $12,003.37. 

The  expenses  of  this  division  of  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  for  October 
were  $1,262.89  and  to  date  for  the  year  1922,  $24,388.40.  Arrangements  have 
been  made  for  the  reduction  of  salary  expense  by  the  loan  of  certain  employees 
to  the  Du  Pont  Company.  It  is  not  advisable,  in  our  opinion,  to  make  any  further 
permanent  reduction  in  this  force  until  the  company  knows  how  much  work  will 
be  involved  before  settlements  are  finally  effected. 
Respectfully  submitted, 

Government  Claims  Division, 
E.  C.  Britton. 
Ajjproved. 

H.  G.  Haskell,   Vice  President. 


The  following  letter  from  Mr.  Gregg  is  entered  into  the  record  in 
connection  with  the  testimony  of  Arthur  Carnduff.     See  text,  p.  3232. 

E.  I.  DU  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company,  Inc., 

Legal  Department, 
Wilmington,  Delaware.,  December  28,  1934. 
Special  Committee  of  the  United  States  Senate 
Investigating  the  Munitions  Industry, 

U.  S.  Senate  Office  Building,  Washington,  D.  C. 
(Attention:  Hon.  Gerald  P.  Nye,  Chairman.) 

Dear  Sirs:  On  December  14,  1934,  your  committee  called  as  a  witness  Mr. 
Arthur  Carnduff,  who  in  1923  was  a  special  assistant  to  the  Attorney  General 
in  the  War  Transactions  Section,  Department  of  Justice.  Mr.  Carnduff  then 
testified  that  at  a  private  executive  and  confidential  hearing  held  late  in  the 
year  1923  before  a  subcommittee  on  ordnance  of  the  General  War  Transactions 
Board,  Maj.  R.  R.  Farr  made  certain  statements  which,  an  examination  of  the 
record  of  that  hearing  discloses.  Major  Farr  did  not  make. 

Major  Farr,  as  special  representative  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War,  was 
placed  in  charge  of  the  War  Department  auditors  from  July  1921  to  the  end  of 
May  1922  engaged  in  the  reaudit  of  expenditures  made  by  du  Pont  Engineering 
Company  in  connection  with  the  construction  and/or  operation  of  certain  Govern- 
ment plants,  including  the  construction  and  operation  of  the  Old  Hickory 
smokeless  powder  plant. 

Mr.  Carnduff  erroneously  testified  before  your  committee  that  Major  Farr 
had  stated  at  said  confidential  hearing  before  said  Board  that  a  spot  check  was 
made  of  expenditures  and  that  approximately  one  in  ten  vouchers  were  checked 
on  the  review  and  reaudit. 

Mr.  Carnduff 's  testimony  in  that  connection  is  as  follows  (vol.  23,  p.  5248): 

"  Mr.  Hiss.  Will  you  describe  the  kind  of  audit  that  was  made  by  Major  Farr? 

"Mr.  Carnduff.  I  can  only  describe  that  from  Major  Farr's  testimony  before 
this  Board,  and  I  have  every  confidence  that  his  testimony  was  accurate.  He 
stated  that  a  spot  check  was  made  of  expenditures,  and  he  stated  that  approxi- 
mately one  in  ten  vouchers  were  checked  on  this  review  and  reaudit." 

At  no  time  prior  to  Mr.  Carnduff's  appearance  as  a  witness  before  your  com- 
mittee had  any  representative  of  either  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  and  Company 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3363 

or  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  an  opportunity  to  inspect  the  minutes  of  said 
private  and  confidential  hearing,  hereinbefore  referred  to.  Following  Mr. 
Carnduff' s  testimony,  and  at  my  request,  j^our  chairman  very  kindly  addressed 
a  letter  to  the  Attorney  General  stating,  in  substance,  that  your  committee  had  no 
objection  to  my  inspection  of  said  transcript  of  testimony.  The  Attorney  Gen- 
eral granted  me  permission  to  examine  such  transcript,  which  examination  I  made 
on  December  21,  1934. 

Upon  examination  of  Major  Farr's  statements  before  said  subcommittee 
of  said  Board,  I  found  that  Major  Farr  did  not  make  the  statement  that  only  a 
spot  check  was  made  of  expenditures  or  that  one  in  ten  vouchers  were  checked 
on  the  review  and  reaudit,  as  attributed  to  him  by  Mr.  Carnduff  in  his  testimony, 
above  quoted,  before  your  committee.  Upon  examination  of  the  statements 
made  by  Major  Farr  before  said  special  committee,  it  will  be  found  that  he  stated 
in  effect,  as  follows: 

That  he  had  heard  rumors  to  the  effect  that  only  a  10%  audit  had  been  made 
of  the  material  receipt  vouchers  involved  in  the  construction  and/or  operation  of 
the  several  plants,  including  the  construction  and  operation  of  the  Old  Hickory 
smokeless  power  plant; 

That  he  (Major  Farr)  thereupon  took  the  matter  up  with  Mr.  J.  R.  Peebles, 
contracting  officer,  du  Pont  engineering  contract  unit,  wno  had  been  engaged 
in  the  reaudit  of  expenditures  made  by  du  Pont  Engineering  Comj^any  prior  to 
the  time  that  he  (Major  Farr)  was  placed  in  charge  of  such  reaudit; 

That  he  (Major  Farr)  thereupon  requested  Mr.  Peebles  to  furnish  him  with  a 
report  of  the  extent  to  which  material  receipt  vouchers  had  been  audited  by  the 
War  Department  auditors  engaged  in  the  reaudit; 

That  thereupon  Mr.  Peebles  in  October  1921  reported  in  writing  to  him 
(Major  Farr)  the  extent  to  which  the  material  receipt  vouchers,  including  those 
applicable  to  the  construction  and  operation  of  the  Old  Hickory  smokeless 
powder  plant,  had  been  audited  (Mr.  Peebles'  memorandum  was  read  by  Major 
Farr  at  the  hearing  before  the  subcommittee  of  said  board  and  is  quoted  in  the 
minutes) ; 

That  at  that  time,  October  1921,  Mr.  Peebles  reported  to  him  (Major  Farr) 
the  extent  to  which  material  receipt  vouchers,  including  those  applicable  to  the 
construction  and  operation  of  the  Old  Hickory  smokeless  powder  plant,  had  been 
audited  up  to  that  time,  viz,  October  1921; 

That  as  to  the  construction  and  operation  of  the  Old  Hickory  smokeless  powder 
plant,  Mr.  Peebles  reported  to  him  (Major  Farr)  that  the  audit  of  the  material 
receipt  vouchers  ivas  then  90%  complete,  and  that  Mr.  Peebles  also  gave  him  the 
percentages  of  completion  of  the  audit  of  the  material  receipt  vouchers  applicable 
to  the  other  plants  constructed  and/or  operated  by  du  Pont  Engineering  Company 
for  the  Government.  (It  may  be  stated  here  that  the  reaudit  by  the  War  Depart- 
ment forces  was  inaugurated  in  October  1919  and  continued  up  to  the  end  of 
May  1922  or  a  period  of  over  2%  years.) 

Major  Farr  further  stated,  as  appears  in  the  minutes  of  the  hearing  before  said 
subcommittee  of  said  Board,  that  from  150  to  175  men  were  engaged  in  the  reaudit 
of  expenditures  made  by  du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  with  a  portion  of  such 
forces  being  located  in  Wilmington,  Delaware,  and  another  portion  at  the  several 
plants,  including  the  Old  Hickory  smokeless  powder  plant. 

Therefore,  it  is  clear  that  Mr.  Carnduff's  testimony  before  your  committee — 
that  Major  Farr  had  stated  before  said  subcommittee  of  said  iBoard  that  only  a 
spot  check  was  made  of  expenditures,  and  that  approximately  one  in  ten  vouchers 
was  checked  on  the  review  and  reaudit — is  grossly  in  error.  However,  Mr.  Carn- 
duft^'s  testimony  on  that  point  was  broadcast  through  the  newspapers  throughout 
the  country. 

The  record  of  the  statements  made  bj^  Major  Farr  before  said  subcommittee 
of  said  Board,  shows  that  in  fact  a  substantially  complete  reaudit  was  made,  not 
only  of  the  material  receipt  vouchers,  but  of  all  other  expenditures  made  by  du 
Pont  Engineering  Company.  In  view  of  the  erroneous  testimony  given  by  Mr. 
Carnduff  before  your  committee,  I  respectfully  request  that  your  committee 
examine  the  record  of  the  statements  made  bj-  Major  Farr  before  said  subcom- 
mittee of  said  Board. 

I  also  respectfully  repeat  the  request  which  I  made  in  open  session  before  your 
committee  that  Major  Farr  be  summoned  to  appear  before  your  committee. 

I  also  respectfully  request  that  this  communication  be  included  in  and  made  a 
part  of  the  record  of  the  hearings  before  your  committee. 
Very  respectfullj-, 

W. 


3364  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

The  following  record  of  a  private  executive  and  confidential  hear- 
ing held  before  a  subcommittee  on  ordnance  of  the  General  War 
Transactions  Board  is  offered  in  connection  with  the  testimony  of 
Arthur  Carnduff  (see  text,  p.  3232)  : 

[bkecutivb  session] 

OLD  HICKORY  INVESTIGATION 

(Room  3538  Munitions  Building,  Washington,  D.  C,  Thursday,  May  10,  1923, 

Friday,  May  11,  1923) 

Proceedings  had  and  testimony  taken  in  executive  sessions  before  subcom- 
mittee on  ordnance  of  tlie  General  War  Transactions  Board. 

INDES; 

Statement  of—  I'age 

Hiram  Barnes  Guise ,—  13, 166 

G.   E.   Youmans 87 

J.  R.  Peebles 132 

R.  E.  Bowman 157 

R.  R.  Farr 225 

Wallace  G.  Kilee^ 271 

1  OLD  HICKORY  INVESTIGATION 

Thtjbsday,  May  10,  1923,  11 :  30  O'Clock  a.  m. 

Room  3541  Munitions  Building, 

Washington,  D.  C. 

Proceedings  had  and  testimony  taken  before  subcommittee  on  ordnance  of 
the  General  War  Transactions  Board,  composed  of  the  following  members: 
Honorable  Dwight  F.  Davis,  Assistant  Secretary  of  War,  chairman ;  Major 
General  C.  C.  Williams,  Chief  of  Ordnance ;  Henry  W.  Anderson,  Esq.,  repre- 
senting the  Department  of  Justice. 

Present :  Colonel  J.  A.  Hull,  executive  officer  of  the  War  Transactions  Board ; 
Colonel  F.  W.  Coleman,  of  the  Finance  Department;  Arthur  Carnduff,  Esq., 
special  assistant  to  the  Attorney  General ;  James  Cameron,  Esq.,  director  of 
audit  of  the  Department  of  Justice ;  A.  V.  McLane,  Esq.,  United  States  District 
Attorney,  Nashville,  Tennessee ;  Major  J.  G.  Bootou,  Ordnance  Department, 
United  States  Army ;  Major  P.  J.  O'Shaughnessy,  Ordnance  Department. 

The  Chairman  (Assistant  Secretary  of  War,  Hon.  Dwight  F.  Davis).  Gen- 
tlemen, this  is  a  meeting  to  consider  certain  matters  which  are  before  tlie  sub- 
committee on  ordnance  of  the  War  Transactions  Board.     I  am  going  to 

2  ask  Colonel  Anderson,  representing  the  Department  of  Justice,  to  make 
an   announcement   in   regard   to  the  procedure   to   be  followed  at   this 

hearing. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Mr.  Chairman  and  gentlemen,  the  Board  have  held  a  con- 
ference, and  the  Secretary  has  asked  me  to  state  its  conclusions.  The  matter 
for  investigation  is  in  connection  with  the  construction  of  the  Old  Hickoiy 
plant  at  Nashville,  which  is  before  the  Board  for  survey,  the  subcommittee 
consisting  of  General  Williams  and  myself  and  the  Secretary  as  ex-officio 
member. 

It  has  been  determined  by  the  Board  that  in  view  of  existing  circumstances 
and  the  character  of  the  survey  they  wish  to  make,  that  they  will  hold  meet- 
ings in  executive  session.  That  the  witnesses,  or  the  persons  who  are  willing 
to  make  statements  voluntarily  to  the  Board,  will  bo  called  into  the  committee 
to  give  their  statement,  which  will  be  confidential  and  will  be  for  the  use  of 
the  committee  only.  There  will  be  present  in  this  investigation,  which  is  purely 
a  governmental  investigation,  the  representatives  of  the  Government  who  are 
investigating  this  matter,  and  who  desire  to  present  to  the  committee  any  facts 
they  have,  and  in  addition,  at  the  proper  time,  any  representatives  of  the  du 
Pont  Engineering  Company  who  desire  to  appear  to  explain  any  aspects  of 
the  matter  will  be  given  opportunity  to  be  heard  by  the  committee,  to  the  end 
that  the  full  facts  may  be  disclosed. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3365 

But  in  the  existing  circumstances  the  Board  has  determined,  after  careful 
consideration,  that  in  the  interest  of  the  Government  it  is  not  desirable  to 
have  an  open  or  public  hearing.  I  understand,  Mr.  Chairnum,  that  you 
3  have  decided  that  we  will  have  the  hearing  in  the  Chemical  Warfare 

conference  room,  to  which  we  will  now  go,  and  any  who  are  interested 
may  remain  here  and  we  will  send  out  for  them  if  we  wish  to  have  them  appear 
before  us.  , 

The  Chairman.  Well,  the  committee  will  adjourn  to  the  Chemical  Warfare 
conference  room  in  the  eighth  wing.  And  you  gentlemen  may  make  yourselves 
comfortable.  I  am  sorry  to  discommode  you,  but  if  you  will  make  yourselves 
comfortable  we  will  give  everybody  an  opportunity  to  be  heard. 

(Thereupon  the  committee  adjourned  to  reconvene  in  executive  session  in 
room  3538  Munitions  Building.) 


4  E3XECUTIVE    SESSION  , 

OLD    HICKORY    INVESTIGATION 

Thursday,  May  10,  1923,  11 :  40  O'clock  a.  m. 

Room  3538  Munitions  Building, 

Washington,  D.  C. 

Proceedings  had  and  testimony  taken  in  executive  session  before  Subcom- 
mittee on  Ordnance  of  the  General  War  Transactions  Board,  composed  of 
the  following  members : 

Hon.  Dwight  F.  Davis,  Assistant  Secretary  of  War,  chairman ;  Maj.  Gen. 
C.  C.  Williams,  Chief  of  Ordnance ;  Henry  W.  Anderson,  Esq.,  representing  the 
Department  of  Justice. 

Present:  Col.  J.  A.  Hull,  executive  oflficer  of  the  War  Transactions  Board; 
Col.  F.  W.  Coleman,  of  the  Finance  Department ;  Arthur  Carnduff,  Esq.,  special 
assistant  to  the  Attorney  General ;  James  Cameron,  Esq.,  Director  of  Audit 
of  the  Department  of  Justice ;  A.  V.  McLane,  Esq.,  United  States  district  at- 
torney, Nashville,  Tenn. ;  Maj.  J.  G.  Booton,  Ordnance  Department,  United 
States  Army;  Maj.  P.  J.  O'Shaughnessy,  Ordnance  Department. 

The  Chairman.  Colonel  Anderson. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Mr.  Carnduff,  who  do  you  want  to  call  first? 

Mr.  ANDEajsoN.  Mr.  Carnduff,  who  do  you  want  to  call  first. 

5  Mr.  Carnduff.  Mr.  Chairman,  I  desire  to  make  an  oi)ening  statement 
which  will  go  into  the  record,  and  which  will  contain  the  salient  facts 

of  the  investigation  as  ascertained  by  the  Government  audits  and  reports. 
They  may  be  taken  as  true.  I  make  this  opening  statement  with  the  idea 
of  expediting  the  testimony,  after  which  I  desire  to  call  Major  Guise,  formerly 
contracting  oflicer. 

I  think  at  this  time  it  would  be  pertinent  to  ask  Mr.  Youmans,  the  corrobo- 
rating witness,  to  step  outside  a  few  minutes,  and  also  Major  Farr,  who  is 
interested,  so  that  Mr.  Guise  may  give  his  testimony  in  confidence. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Very  well. 

As  the  chairman  asked  me  to  discuss  the  question  of  procedure  here,  1 
would  like  to  state  that  the  procedure  before  this  Board  is  absolutely  confi- 
dential. While  nobody  will  be  sworn,  it  will  have  all  the  elements  of  secrecy 
and  of  contidence  that  a  grand  jury  investigation  would  have.  Everyone 
present  is  supposed  to  be  under  pledge  not  to  disclose  anything  that  takes 
place  before  the  Board,  either  its  method  of  procedure,  or  anything  that  may 
be  said,  and  no  witness  will  be  supposed,  under  any  circumstances,  to  tell 
outside  of  the  Board  room  anything  that  he  testifies  to  in  this  room.  While  it 
has  not  the  legal  formality  of  a  grand  jury,  it  has  all  of  the  moral  obliga- 
tions of  a  grand  jury. 

Mr.   Carnduff. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Mr.  Chairman  and  gentlemen.  In  order  to  expedite  matters 
1  will  make  a  brief  opening  statement  which  will  contain  the  salient  facts  of 
the  investigation,  a  statement  based  on  Government  records. 

6  The  du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  by  a  formal  contract,  dated  March 
23,  1918,  agreed  to  construct  and  operate  for  the  United  States  a  smoke- 
less-powder plant  at  Nashville,  Tennessee,  of  nine  units,  having  a  total  capacity 
of  900,000  pounds  per  day.     The  estimated  cost  of  the  plant  was  originally 


3366  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

$75,000,000,  but  on  the  second  clay  of  November  1918,  such  estimate  was  for- 
mally increased  to  $90,000,000.  The  approved  items  expended  under  this  con- 
tract aggregate  $107,609,614.33,  $83,583,074.72  being  for  construction  and  $24,- 
200,267.01  for  operation.  The  plant  was  completed  to  a  degree  of  about  85 
percent,  six  units  being  in  operation  and  35,538,345  poiands  of  powder  produced. 
The  contract  provided  that  the  contractor  should  receive  as  reimbursement 
for  the  construction  of  the  plant  a  fee  of  $1.00  and  no  more,  but  that  the 
United  States  should  reimburse  the  contractor  for  all  costs  and  expenses  of 
every  character  and  description,  and  should,  upon  the  execution  of  the  con- 
tract, advance  to  the  contractor,  without  interest,  $18,750,000,  and  should 
promptly  pay  all  costs  and  expenditures  upon  receipt  of  satisfactory  evidence 
thereof  mitil  such  payments  plus  the  said  advance  payment  should  equal  the 
estimated  price,  and  that  the  United  States  should,  upon  the  completion  of  the 
contract,  pay  or  receive  back  any  approved  excess  cost  or  deficiency  cost,  as 
the  case  might  be.  The  contractor  was  to  build  the  plant  with  the  utmost 
speed  and  thereafter  operate  it  for  a  theoretical  period  of  54  months  if 
necessary. 

In  the  operation  of  the  plant  the  United  States  was  to  pay  all  costs, 

7  both  labor  and  material,  of  every  nature,  and  was  to  pay  the  contractor 
the  profit   of  3^2   cents  per  pound   upon   powder   manufactured  plus  a 

bonus  conditioned  on  manufacture  at  less  than  a  base  price,  whjeh  base  price 
for  the  various  grades  was  44%  cents,  45^/^  cents,  52%  cents,  56%  cents  per 
pound  conditioned  on  certain  base  prices  of  essential  materials.  And  the 
United  States  was  to  advance  to  the  contractor  $18,945,000  in  three  quarterly 
payments  as  an  operating  fund,  to  be  absorbed  as  powder  was  delivered,  and 
was  to  pay  the  actual  cost,  plus  the  profit,  as  acceptances  of  the  powder  were 
consummated. 

The  cunlract  provided  that  the  contractor  shoidd  keep  complete  records, 
at  all  tJme.s  accessible  to  the  United  States,  and  that  the  United  States 
might  examine  the  work  as  it  progressed  and  should  audit  all  accounts.  The 
contractor  was  authorized  to  do  all  things  necessary  or  convenient,  and  to 
pay  extra  compensation  when  approved  by  the  contracting  officer  of  the  United 
States,  and  to  sublet  its  work  when  so  approved,  and  was  to  use  its  best 
endeavors  to  construct  the  plant  as  quickly  as  possible. 

In  consummation  of  the  contract,  the  plant  was  built  with  incredible  speed. 
An  average  force  of  40,000  people  was  employed  in  the  construction,  and  as 
a  part  of  the  contract,  a  small  city  was  built  to  house  the  construction  and 
operation  personnel  and  their  families.  Of  course  production  of  powder 
ceased  after  the  armistice,  and  the  plant  now  stands  near  Nashville,  Ten- 
nessee, a  source  of  litigation  between  the  United  States  and  a  private  corpo- 
ration which  purchased  the  same — such  matter  being  irrelevant  to  the  present 
investigation. 

8  From  time  to  time  during  the  active  period  of  construction  and  oper- 
ation,   and    almost    continuously    thereafler,    various    charges    of    fraud 

and  irregularities  have  been  made,  and  numerous  questions  as  to  reimburse- 
ments to  the  contractor  of  expenditures  incurred  have  arisen.  An  audit  of 
the  transaction  was  commenced  by  the  War  Department  in  an  effort  to  effec- 
tuate an  accounting  of  the  transaction,  and  numerous  disputes,  controversies, 
and  claims  were  presented  for  decision,  but  no  pronouncement  upon  the  same 
was  ever  had  by  a  court  or  by  litigation.  On  May  31,  1922,  a  report  was 
made  by  War  Department  officers  and  officials  to  the  War  Department,  but 
same  was  never  referred  to  the  Department  of  Justice.  Various  charges, 
reports,  and  complaints  were  made  to  the  former  United  States  attorney  at 
Nashville,  the  Hcnorable  Lee  Douglas,  and  the  attention  of  the  Department 
of  Justice  was  invited  to  the  situation  and  to  complaints  received  in  Novem- 
ber 1922  by  the  Honorable  A.  V.  McLane,  United  States  attorney  at  Nash- 
ville;  whereupon  a  preliminary  survey  of  the  situation  was  made  by  certain 
personnel  of  the  Department  of  Justice,  Avho  heard  testimony  on  serious 
charges  of  irregularities,  who  ascertained  that  there  was  apparently  over 
$500,000  still  retained  by  contractor,  who  recommended  that  it  be  ascertained 
if  there  had  ever  been  a  general  and  comi)lete  accounting  between  the  con- 
tractor and  the  United  States,  and  that  it  should  be  determined  whether 
such  accounting  ought  properly  to  be  reviewed,  considering  the  magnitude  of 
the  transaction  and  the  enormous  cost  of  a  re-audit  or  further  investigation. 

It  has  therefore  been  decided  to  invite  all  parties  having  knowledge  of 
9  the  transaction  to  present  their  views  freely  at  this  hearing,  so  that 

such    further    procedure   may    be   determined    as    may    be   necessary    to 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3367 

afford  a  JB..st  and  proper  detennixiation  of  tlic  questions  involved  so  tliat 
expense  ef  further  investigation  may  be  incurred  only  if  justifiable  and  so  that 
tbe  intere.sts  of  the  United  States  may  be  carefully  safeguarded. 

To  that  end  I  have  invited  to  be  present  the  officials  who  functioned  in  the 
'matter,  and  such  witnesses  as  we  deemed  pertinent  and  relevant,  and  with 
your  permission  I  will  now  ask  Major  Guise,  who  functioned  in  this  matter 
to   tell   his   story   to  you.  ' 

In  this  connection  I  would'  like  to  invite  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  the 
real  problem  in  this  case  is  reimbursement  of  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Com- 
panj'.  They  were  paid  by  presenting  to  the  Government  a  voucher  or  a  state- 
ment that  tliey  had  expended  a  certain  sum.  Upon  approval  of  that  voucher 
the  amount  claimed  was  paid  them.  During  all  this  time  they  had  as  a  con- 
struction fund  advanced  $18,750,000,  and  as  an  operating  fund  advanced 
$18,950,000  additional.  But  of  course  it  was  necessary  for  them  to  secure  from 
the  Government  payment  of  items  as  they  paid  them.  Therefore  the  testi- 
money  of  Major  Guise  as  to  how  this  reimbursement  proceeded  is  extremely 
pertinent. 

The  Department  of  Justice  will  show  you  during  the  course  of  this  hearing 

that  ^yhen  the  plant  was  being  constructed  only  one  voucher  in  ten  was  audited. 

In  other  words,  if  ten  bills  were  presented  to  the  United  States  at  the  plant, 

one  was  arbitrarily  taken  out  and  checked,  and  if  it  were  found  correct,  the 

other  nine  were  passed  pro  forma. 

10  It  will  also  be  shown  that  no  economical  check  of  freight  rates  was 
made.     Tliat  thousands  of  dollars  was  paid  for  freight,  and  the  over- 
payments and  excess  payments  never  paid  back  to  the  United  States. 

They  will  show  charges  of  gross  overcharges  in  the  matter  of  cotton  and 
cotton  linters,  cotton  being  an  essential  component  of  smokeless  powder. 

They  will  also  present  to  you  evidence  of  gross  irregularities  in  payments 
made  at  this  plant,  payment  of  labor,  in  administration,  and  in  payment  of 
bonuses  to  employees,  very  large  bonuses,  thousands  of  dollars. 

Now  these  matters  are  extremely  important,  because  it  was  to  the  interest 
of  the  contractor  to  complete  the  plant  as  speedily  as  possible,  regardless  of  any 
expense,  so  that  the  contractor  then  might  get  into  production  and  commence 
earning  profit. 

General  Williams.  I  will  object  to  that  statement,  Colonel  Anderson.  The 
real  reason  why  the  question  of  time  was  so  important  was  that  these  supplies 
were  needed  for  the  supplying  of  troops. 

Mr.  Carndufp.  Exactly. 

General  Wiixiams.  And  not  at  all  that  it  was  for  the  question  of  the  du  Pont 
Company  getting  into  production  so  that  their  bonuses  might  commence. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  General  Williams,  we  quite  appreciate  that  the  production  of 
powder  was  a  prime  element. 

General  Williams.  No ;  the  element.     The  controlling  element. 

11  Mr.   Carnduff.  But   until   production   commenced   there  would   be  no 
profit  for  the  contractor. 

General  Williams.  Well,  naturally  not. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  We  agree  on  that. 

General  Williams.  Why,  of  course.  But  the  motive  which  you  assign  is  not 
the  real  one,  in  my  mind. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Major  Carnduff,  you  made  a  statement  that  the  real  problem 
was  the  reimbursement  of  the  du  Pont  Company.  You  do  not  mean  to  say  that 
the  problem  liefore  this  committee  is  the  reimbursement  of  the  du  Pont  Com- 
pany, but  rather  that  the  investigation  of  the  method  of  reimbursement  is  the 
first  question  that  you  wish  to  present.  Of  course,  the  problem  before  this 
committee  is  whether  or  not  there  are  any  irregularities  of  such  character  as 
required  a  further  audit,  and  civil  or  criminal  proceedings  in  the  matteer,  or, 
I  should  say,  such  irregularities  as  might  require  a  reference  to  the  Depart- 
ment of  Justice  for  any  action.     That  is  really  our  problem. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Colonel  Anderson,  your  problem  is  twofold  here.  You  have 
on  one  hand  the  problem  of  fraud,  criminality,  irregularities.  You  have  on  the 
other  hand  the  civil  problem  of  recovery  of  money  from  the  du  Pont  Company. 
The  du  Pont  Company  have  this  money.  If  we  commence  a  civil  action,  our 
action  will  be  to  recover  money  they  now  have.  Therefore  the  method  used  in 
the  reimbursement,  the  justice  of  the  reimbursement,  is  an  important  problem 
on  the  civil  side. 


3368  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  ANDEaisoN.  Yes ;  that  is  what  you  meant  by  saying  that  the  real  problem 
was  the  reimbursement  of  the  du  Pont  Company? 

12  Mr.  Cx\RNDXJFr.  Yes. 

IVTl'     A  NrVKRSOW      I    SGG 

Colonel  HxjLL.  The  du  Pont  Company  are  willing  to  pay  the  amount  they  have 
on  special  deposit,  aren't  they?  They  admit  they  have  Government  money. 
They  are  waiting  until  u  final  determination  of  the  amount. 

Mr  Carndxjff.  The  du  Pont  Company,  I  understand,  are  willing  to  pay  a 
<?ertain  amount  to  the  United  States,  based  on  a  settlement,  provided  the  sum 
is  accepted  as  payment  in  full,  and  the  controversy  ended.  From  this  amount 
they  will  deduct  "all  costs  of  expenses,  including  the  cost  of  this  investigation, 
-as  borne  by  them. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Mr.  Chairman,  with  your  permission  I  would  like  to  ask  the 
district  attorney  of  Nashville,  Tennessee,  Mr.  McLane,  if  he  has  anything  to  add 
^t  this  time,  or  does  he  wish  just  to  take  part  in  the  investigation  and  examina- 
tion of  the  witnesses,  should  it  be  necessary? 

Mr.  McLane.  I  would  be  gh-.d  to  take  part  in  the  examination  of  witnesses. 
I  have  nothing  further  to  add  at  this  time. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  suggest  then  that  we  proceed  with  the  examination  ot 
witnesses.  .       ^,    .  .,, 

Mr.  Carnduff.  All  right,  I  will  introduce  Major  Guise.  Major  Guise,  will 
you  kindly  sit  down  and  tell  your  story. 

13  STATEMENT  OF  HIRAM  BARNES  GUISE,  BOSTON,  MASSACHUSETTS 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Will  you  kindly  give  your  name,  address,  former  relations 
with  the  Government,  and  present  occupation  to  the  reporter 

Mr.  Guise.  Hiram  Barnes  Guise.  Formerly  major,  Ordnance  Department, 
U.  S.  A.  After  concluding  a  tour  of  duty  overseas  I  was  directed  to  proceed  to 
the  Philadelphia  district  ordnance  cfiice  for  duty.  I  had  two  weeks'  leave  of 
absence.  I  arrived  early  in  March,  I  should  say  about  the  first  of  March  1919. 
The  chief  of  the  Philadelphia  district,  ordnance  district,  ordered  me  to  proceed 
to  Wilmington,  Delaware,  to  take  over  certain  matters  pertaining  to  the  E.  I. 
du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  claims.  And  later,  approximately  April  1st, 
1919,  I  was  appointed  by  the  district  chief  as  commanding  oflicer  on  all  du  Pont 
Engineering  matters  for  the  Philadelphia  district  claims  board. 

At  about  the  same  time  I  was  nominated  and  appointed  by  the  ordnance 
office  as  the  representative  of  the  contracting  officer  in  all  du  Pont  Engineering 
contracts.  This  including  the  Old  Hickory  plant,  the  T.  N.  T.  plant  at  Racine, 
Wisconsin,  the  shell-loading  plant  at  Tullytown,  Pennsylvania,  and  the  Seven 
Pines  shell-loading  plant.  ^  ^  ^,       ^  .    -,«-,« 

During  the  time  from  March  1st,  1919,  to  approximately  October  1st,  1919, 
I  was  very  busily  engaged  as  officer  in  charge  on  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  & 
Company  claims. 

During  this  entire  period  the  cost-accounting  branch,  that  was  proceeding 
with  the  audit  of  the  du  Pont  Engineering  contracts,  was  under  the 
14  Baltimore  district  ordnance  office.  At  about  this  time  it  was  transferred 
to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Philadelphia  district  ordnance  office,  and  sev- 
eral changes  were  made  in  the  supervision  of  the  cost  accountants  working  on 
the  du  Pont  Engineering  contracts.  I  had  gotten  to  a  point  in  the  claims 
where  I  could  find  the  time  to  proceed  to  the  various  plants  and  go  much 
deeper  into  du  Pont  Engineering  matters  than  I  had  before,  and  I  proceeded  to 
Nashville,  Tennessee,  as  I  remember,  some  time  in  October,  taking  with  me 
several  investigators  so  as  to  ascertain  the  possibility  of  securing  certain  evi- 
dence required  for  the  validation  of  public  vouchers,  and  the  memoranda 
supporting  them. 

After  arriving  and  investigating  conditions  in  general,  I  found  matters  were 
somewhat  complictaed,  and  directed  a  much  further  and  complete  investigation 
as  to  the  supporting  papers  needed  for  tliis  jiurpose,  and  returned  to  Phila- 
delphia. I  called  the  du  Pont  Engineering  officials'  attention  to  the  lack  of  a 
considerable  amount  of  primary  evidence,  such  as  the  proper  material  receipts, 
and  also  to  the  necessity  of  our  being  able  to  get  full  access  to  all  documentary 
evidence  that  they  might  have,  with  regard  particularly  to  materials,  as  I  had 
taken  this  particular  matter  under  my  observation.  It  seemed  to  be  rather 
difficult,  in  fact  almost  impossible,  to  secure  the  necessary  supporting  evidence 
frcjm  the  du  Pont  Company.    They  claiming  that  they  have  presented  vouchers 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3369 

whlcli  were  filled  in  in  their  office,  either  copies  of  the  original  account  from 

the  person  from  whom  they  bought,  or  a  form  that  they  sent  to  the  various 

people  from  whom  they  purchased,  materials  for  them  to  fill  out  and 

15  present  as  their  invoice. 

As  it  was  necessary  for  us  to  have  further  supporting  evidence  to 
validate  the  payment  of  any  moneys  to  the  du  Pont  Company,  we  then  en- 
deavored to  secure  by  any  means  whatsoever,  either  with  or  without  the  cooper- 
ation of  the  company,  tlie  receiving  records,  and  after  delving  through  quite  a 
number  of  fides  we  found  a  considerable  number  of  receiving  reports,  part  of 
which  were  doubtful,  in  fact,  they  were  signed  by  clerks  rather  than  clieckers. 

Investigating  further,  we  found  considerable  evidence  that  these  records  were 
copied  from  the  vouchers  and  did  not  represent  an  actual  check  of  materials 
received  at  the  plant.  This  immediately  threw  all  the  transactions  into  doubt 
until  we  could  verify  the  receipt  of  materials.  And  this  struggle  continued  on 
practically  to  the  tennination  of  my  period,  at  least,  of  service.  This  with 
regard  to  materials  and  the  receipt  of  materials. 

On  bulk  shipments,  such  as  carloads,  we  went  through  the  railroad  records, 
not  at  the  du  Pont  Engineering  offices  or  the  offices  of  the  Old  Hickory  powder 
plant,  but  we  went  to  the  railroad  offices  and  reviewed  the  railroad  records, 
checking  up  on  car  numbers,  car  lots,  weights,  and  by  other  methods  tried  to 
verify,  and  did  verify,  that  carloads  of  material  were  received  as  represented 
by  the  invoices  presented.  In  this  way  we  cleared  up  a  great  many  bulk 
shipments  and  were  able  to  certify  to  the  applicability  and  receipt  of  the 
material  for  the  purposes  of  the  contract. 

But  we  still  had  many  items  in  doubt,  due  to  this  question  of  fabri- 

16  cated  records,  which  they  were,   purely  and  simply,   and  nothing  else ; 
that  is,  this  statement  of  mine  being  based  on  the  evidence  presented  by 

former  employees  of  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  and  by  the  fact  that 
clerks  ( iily  had  signed,  in  a  great  many  cases,  these  receiving  reports,  so-called. 

Mr.  Andekson.  Would  it  bother  you  if  I  interrupted  you  with  a  question? 
You  speak  of  "  fabricated  "  evidence.  Were  you  convinced  that  this  evidence 
was  made-up  evidence  to  support  those  vouchers  V 

Mr.  Guise.  In  reviewing  a  large  number  of  records  such  as  those,  amounting 
to  probably  over — considerably  over — 100,000  vouchers,  we  would  find  normally 
a  great  many  intermingled ;  there  would  be  some  shortages,  loss  and  damage 
reports,  and  other  things  like  that  intermingled.  We  never  found  shortages, 
only  on  those  records  that  we  verified  as  being  made  by  checkers.  We  never 
found  them  on  the  others. 

Secondly,  thousands  of  records  were  made  in  the  handwriting  of  one  man, 
and  signed  by  one  man.  It  would  be  absolutely  impossible  for  that  man  to 
check,  or  be  in  charge  of  checking  directly  in  the  field  of  the  received  materials. 
There  was  only  a  small  percentage  of  the  total  validated  by  the  representatives 
of  the  Ordnance  Department  in  the  field. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now,  one  question  more,  Major.  Could  you  give  us  the  names 
of  any  of  the  persons  you  speak  of? 

Mr.  Guise.  It  would  be  rather  difficult.  They  are  all  a  matter  of  record,  and 
I  think  you  will  find  the  Ordnance  office  should  have  a  report  which  carries 
many  of  those  names. 

Mr.  Carndui'F.  I  beg  your  pardon,  Major,  several  of  them  will  testify. 

17  Mr.  Guise.  You  will  undoubtedly  have  them  at  the  meetings. 
Mr.  Cabnduff.  We  will  have  several  of  them  here. 

Mr.  Guise.  It  would  be  rather  difficult  after  four  or  five  years  for  me  to  recall 
the  names  of  people  that  I  only  met  once  or  twice. 

Mr.  Andekson.  If  you  can  and  if  you  will  give  us  the  names  of  people  who  can 
substantiate  these  statements,  or  with  whom  we  can  go  further  into  detail,  it 
would  help  us. 

Mr.  Guise.  I  would  hesitate.  Colonel  Anderson.  I  might  give  the  wrong  name, 
and  I  would  hesitate  as  to  that. 

This  practically  covers  that  iwrtion  of  the  investigations  pertaining  to  the 
receipt  of  materials.  And  I  might  possibly  have  made  it  a  little  stronger  about 
the  question  of  getting  information,  because  we  didn't  get  any — that  is  the  long 
and  short  of  it — until  I  insisted  at  least  that  a  few  representatives  of  the  du 
Ponts  come  down  with  us  and  help  us  further  along  with  the  case  so  as  to 
accelerate  settlement.  AVe  found  quite  a  number  of  records  by  tearing  away 
boards,  the  foundation  of  buildings,  and  getting  underneath,  pulling  them  out 


3370  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

from  where  they  had  been  placed  underneath  the  floors  of  the  various  tempo- 
rary buildings  there. 

General  Williams.  Records,  do  you  mean? 

Mr.  Guise.  The  records  in  some  cases  were  practically  hidden,  you  might  say, 

in  those  points.     We  had  testimony — I  will  not  say  that  it  was  all  complete — 

that  a  considerable  number  of  records — in  fact  rather  good  sized  bundles — had 

been  destroyed,  burned  up,  before  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  left  the 

place. 

18  On  examination  of  a  great  deal  of  apparently  scrap  paper  we  found 
records  intermingled  with  scrap.     These  covered  both  construction  and 

operation. 

But  our  principal  difl5culty  was  to  find  the  primary  support  to  the  invoices 
presented.  That  was  the  great  difficulty.  We  could  get  a  great  number  of  ex- 
pense bills,  but  to  get  the  support  for  those  bills,  that  was  where  all  the  hesita- 
tion came. 

As  far  as  the  receipt  of  material  is  concerned,  the  first  thing  that  we  were 
endeavoring  to  do  was  to  establish  that  the  materials  were  received  on  the 
ground.  The  second  thing  that  the  representative  of  the  contract  section  had 
to  determine  would  be  their  applicability. 

We  did  not  review  the  question  of  whether  if  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Com- 
pany bought  a  keg  of  nails  or  a  carload  of  lumber,  it  was  necessary,  because 
that  was  material  of  the  class  they  used,  and  if  it  was  left  there  it  should  nor- 
mally be  in  the  possession  of  the  United  States  after  it  was  turned  over.  We 
did  not  question  that.  The  only  thing  we  wanted  to  know  was  that  it  was  de- 
livered there,  that  we  had  prime  evidence  and  legal  evidence  of  that  fact,  and 
that  that  was  difficult  to  get  at.  I  am  speaking  now  of  the  construction.  The 
matters  that  I  am  speaking  of  now  are  those  pertaining  to  construction. 

The  last  function  of  the  repersentative  of  the  contract  section  was  that  of 
determining  the  reasonable  price ;  whether  the  contractor  was  paying  in  excess 
of  what  you  would  call  a  normal  price,  and  if  so,  whether  there  was  a  particu- 
lar reason  for  his  paying  it.     We  did   investigate  quite   a   number  of 

19  those  eases,  and  in  some  cases  we  found,  for  example,  in  relation  to  tile, 
that  the  subcontractor,  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company,  had  purchased 

tiles  and  some  other  materials  cheaper  than  the  du  Pont  Company.  That  ele- 
ment would  not  have  amounted  to  a  very  large  percent,  however,  in  the  total 
involved,  and  we  did  not  review  very  far  into  that.  That  was  a  question  par- 
ticularly for  investigation  in  general,  rather  than  in  detail  at  the  time.  What 
we  were  trying  to  do,  in  fact,  was  to  clear  the  matter  up  and  get  the  vouchers 
off  our  hands  so  we  could  issue  public  vouchers  and  pass  them  through,  if  it 
was  possible.  This  element  of  doubt,  and  the  impossibility  of  securing  full  and 
complete  evidence  did  throw  quite  a  number  of  material  vouchers  into  suspense. 

Mr.  Caenduff.  Pardon  me.  Major  Guise.  Will  you  state  to  the  Committee 
the  approximate  aggregate  total  of  your  suspensions? 

Mr.  Guise.  At  the  time  I  left  I  should  say  there  was  approximately  five 
millions  of  dollars  that  was  suspended  on  account  of  illegality  or  nonapplica- 
bility  for  the  purpose  of  the  contract.  And  this  was  reduced  by  the  late  audit 
to  about  $300,000. 

General  Williams.  What  do  you  mean  by  "illegality"? 

Mr.  Guise.  Well,  those  things  that  had  been  determined  by  various  decisions 
of  the  court,  by  law,  as  impossible,  such  as  the  removal  of  criminals ;  the  pay- 
ment of  the  cost  of  removing  a  criminal  from  the  State  of  Tennessee  to  the 
State  of  Indiana ;  that  was  one  case.  Miscellaneous  items  of  various  kinds, 
and  all  that. 

And  inapplicability :  A  great  deal  of  it  was  due  to  various  determina- 

20  tions,  that  is  under  the  contract ;   the  determination  of  the   direct  ex- 
penditure for  the  purpose  of  the  contract,  the  contract  being  purely  and 

solely  for  the  construction  of  a  smokeless  powder  plant  and  the  operation 
thereof.  Now,  it  would  be  impossible  to  go  into  the  vast  number  of  details, 
the  enormous  amount  of  detail  included  in  it.  But  there  were  so  many  differ- 
ent types.  For  example,  they  paid  the  expense  of  a  man's  wife  and  daughter 
proceeding  to  California,  and  their  return,  and  tendered  the  bill  to  the  United 
States  for  reimbursement.     Not  on  this  contract. 

Mr.  Cabnduff.  You  would  su.spond  that  on  the  basis  of  inapplicability? 

Mr.  Guise.  I  would  suspend  that  oJi  the  basis  of  inapplicability. 

Mr.  Cabnduff.  Now,  Major,  in  addition  to  the  $5,000,000  that  you  suspended 
because  of  illegality,  tell  the  Committee  the  additional  aggregate  amounts  sus- 
pended because  of  inapplicability? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3371 

Mr.  Guise.  These  pertained  primarily  and  solely  to  construction  account. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Yes. 

Mr.  Guise.  Not  less  than  $13,000,000. 

General  Williams.  Just  a  moment,  please.  I  would  like  to  know  a  little 
more  about  that  "  illegality  "  business.  Five  million  dollars  is  a  pretty  large 
sum.  This  taking  of  a  criminal  from  one  State  to  another  is  a  rather  minor 
item.  There  must  have  been  some  large  items  to  make  up  that  five  million 
dollars. 

Mr.  Caknduff.  Well,  General,  there  were  bonuses,  I  think  as  high  as  $20,000 
to  one  man. 

21  Mr.  Guise.  Cut  that  $5,000  please. 
Mr.  Caknduff.  $15,000. 

Mr.  Guise.  $15,000. 

Mr.  Caknduff.  $15,000  bonus  to  one  man. 

General  Williams.  Who  was  the  man? 

Mr.  Guise.  As  I  remember,  the  name  was — I  can't  give  it  to  you  just  now. 

General  Williams.  What  is  his  function  in  the  plant? 

Mr.  Guise.  He  was  the  supervising — I  believe  he  was  the  manager  there  at 
the  plant. 

General  Williams.  Well,  does  not  the  contract  provide  for  the  paying  of 
extra  compensation? 

Colonel  Hull.  Mr.  Chainnan,  I  think  we  can  simplify  matters.  The  ques- 
tion of  bonuses  has  all  been  threshed  out.  The  exact  amount  of  bonuses  paid 
every  man  is  on  the  records.  The  reasons  for  it,  as  advanced,  and  the  decision? 
of  Major  Farr,  are  all  in  writing  on  the  question  of  bonuses. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Exactly. 

Colonel  Hull.  So  I  think  we  had  better  take  the  records  on  that  question  of 
bonuses. 

Mr.  Caknduff.  But  that  shows  what  the  eighteen  million  dollars  are  made 
up  of  which  were  suspended. 

Mr.  Guise.  The  $13,000,000  was  made  up  solely  on  account  of  lack  of 
evidence. 

Mr.  Anderson.  The  total  of  $18,000,000,  I  understand,  was  suspended. 
Mr.  Guise.  The  total  of  $18,000,000  was  suspended,  yes,  sir. 

22  General  Williams.  Does  or  does  not  the  contract  provide  for  the  pay- 
ment of  bonuses  largely  as  compensation? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  It  does  provide  for  extra  compensation  when  approved  by  the 
contracting  officer.     I  think  those  are  the  words  of  the  contract. 

Colonel  Hull.  The  exact  amount,  and  to  whom  they  are  paid,  are  all  mat- 
ters of  record. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  suggest  that  we  go  ahead  with  his  statement,  and  then  we 
could  have  those  questions  argued  before  us. 

General  Williams.  I  wanted  to  get  some  idea  as  to  what  was  involved. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  did  not  mean  to  cut  that  off.  General. 

General  Williams.  There  were  considerable  sums.  Where  did  they 
come   in? 

Mr.  Anderson.  Yes ;  $18,000,000  is  a  great  sum. 

General  Williams.  Yes. 

Mr.  Guise.  You  must  remember  that  these  suspensions  were  on  an  aggre- 
gate of  probably  150,000  voucher.s  or  better.  In  fact  more  than  that;  all 
classes  of  vouchers.  And  some  of  them  included  personal  expense  vouchers 
that  were  presented  by  the  du  Fonts  for  reimbursement,  for  the  transportation 
of  various  employees  to  different  points.  Under  the  terms  of  the  contract  the. 
du  Pont  Engineering  Company  were  allowed  to  pay  premiums  for  the  purpose 
of  protecting  themselves  against  all  compensation  losses  of  various  kinds. 
But  instead  of  doing  that  they  paid  compensation  direct,  under  lawsuits  and 
various  suits  that  were  brought  against  them  for  personal  damages,  and 
torts ;   miscellaneous   items   of  that  class  ran  ui>  into — oh.   I   will   say 

23  hundreds  of  thousands  of  dollars  at  least.    Those  expenses  could  not  be 
paid  directly,  and  I  think  I  am  quite  certain  that  a  decision  made  by 

the — in  fact  there  is  a  law,  a  statute  law  of  the  United  States  that  provides 
that  where  damages  occurred  which  the  United  States  would  have  to  pay 
through  legal  action,  that  the  Attorney  General's  office  has  first  to  act  upon 
it- — that  it  has  to  he  brought  to  the  attention  of  the  Attorney  General  of  the. 
United  State.*.  Well,  you  must  remember  this  is  four  or  five  years  back, 
but  there  were  miscellaneous  items  of  that  class  that  aggregated  in  the. 
total  about  the  sum  I  have  mentioned. 

83876— 35— PT  14 14 


3372  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Cakunuff.  Tell  the  committee,  if  you  know,  what  liecuine  of  this 
eighteen  million  dollars  worth  of  suspensions? 

Mr.  Guise.  I  don't  know,  only  by  hearsay. 

Mr.  Cardnxiff.  Well,  let  us  have  it. 

Mr.  Guise.  I  understand  that  the  suspensions  were  disallowed.  That  is, 
that  the  entire  amount  was  taken  out  of  suspension  by  the  representative 
of  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War,  and  practically  all  allowed  to  the  du  Fonts. 

Mr.  Cardnuff.  You  mean  this  $18,000,000  was  paid  in  toto? 

Mr.  Guise.  The  payment  was  validated. 

General  Williams.  It  had  already  been   paid? 

Mr.  Guise.  Yes. 

General  Williams.  There  was  a  question  of  suspension. 

Mr.  Guise.  We  were  suspending  the  validation,  you  might  say,  of  the 
payment. 

Now,  this  is  a  question  of  documentary  evidence  that  I  secured  in  the  offices 
of  the  Cincinnati  district  ordnance  office;  in  the  offices  at  Nashville;  a 

24  small    amount    subsequently    in    the    du    Pont    Engineering    Company's 
offices.     The  representative  of  the  finance  division  at  the  plant,  and  at 

Wilmington,  both  wei-e  notified  b.v — Colonel  Blythe,  was  it  at  that  time? 

General  Williams.  Colonel  Blythe  at  tliat  time  was  at  the  head  of  our 
finance  department. 

Mr.  Guise.  I  believe  this  letter  was  signed  l)y  Colonel  Blythe.  They  were 
warned  that  it  might  lie  necessary  for  them  to  make  an  audit  at  the  time  and 
re^"iew  these  questions,  but  that  the  final  determination  as  to  the  actual 
invalidation  would  have  to  be  done  late  •.  And  on  my  review  of  conditions, 
as  exhibited  in  the  Wilmington  office  of  the  cost  accounting  branch,  I  should 
assume  that  they  had  continued  the  audit  about  in  tbe  same  manner  that  they 
did  at  the  time  that  Colonel  Blythe  liad  given  this  warning  late  in  1917. 
It  was  known  to  the  proper  authorities  in  the  ordnance  office;  that  is,  to 
(;'olonel  Blythe,  and  others,  that  the  audit  was  proceeding  in  somewhat 
irregular  manner,  but  the  necessity  for  a  further  review  was  plainly  apparent 
in  these  instructions,  indicated  in  these  instructions. 

General  Williams.  Whicli  audit  are  you  speaking  of  now? 

Mr.  Guise.  Tlie  first  audit,  tbe  original  audit  that  proceeded  along  during 
the  construction  and  operation  of  the  plant. 

General  Williams.  So  it  was  recognized  then  that  a  further  audit  w^ould  be 
necessary? 

Mr.  Guise.  Yes,  sir;  at  that  time.  The  ordnance  office  has  a  copy,  I  am  quite 
certain,  of  that  letter  of  Colonel  Blythe's.  provided  they  have  got  the 

25  copy  that   was  supposed   to  come  through   channels   to  it   of  my  final 
rei)ort.     I  gave  Mr.  Francis,  at  Philadelphia,  before  I  left  my  report, 

two  copies  of  which  was  to  be  forwarded  through  to  the  oi'dnance  office. 
In  this  was  included  a  large  amount  of  supporting  papers  of  various  kinds, 
and  this  was  included  in  that. 

General  Williams.  All  of  these  suspensions  of  yours  were  subsequently 
taken  up  by  the  proper  agents  of  the  Government  and  made  a  matter  of  investi- 
gation by  these  agents,  together  with  the  representatives  of  the  du  Pont 
Engineering  Company,  and  in  most  cases  an  agreement  or  a  settlement  was 
arrived  at,  is  that  true? 

Mr.  Gt:ise.  I  don't  know.  We  discussed  the  matter — I  had  conferences  at 
different  periods  with  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company's  officials,  but  what  I 
wanted  was  documentary  evidence  which  was  required  under  the  regulations ;  as 
far  as  that  is  concerned,  under  any  regulations  that  I  knew,  before  I  could 
proceed  with  the  final  certification  of  the  voucher.  Before  I  could  do  that  I 
had  to  have  the  supporting  papers  there.  I  do  not  consider,  and  do  not  now 
consider,  tliat  the  mere  presentation  of  a  bill,  without  all  the  necessary  evidence 
back  of  it.  gives  us  the  proper  supporting  papers  for  a  public  voucher.  We 
must  have  absolute  and  definite  knowledge  that  that  work  was  performed,  and 
the  material  was  received  as  represented  in  that  bill. 

General  WiiLiAi^ts.  Well,  tlie  only  thing  that  I  wanted  to  bring  out  was  that 
these  suspensions  of  yours  were  subsequently  taken  up  and  all  the  evidence 
available  was  examined  by  tbe  agents  of  the  Government,  and  that  an  agree- 
ment was  reached,  or  a  settlement  was  reached  with  the  du  Pont  people. 

26  Colonel  Hull.  The  Government  duly  passed  on  all  items. 
General   Williams.  Yes. 

yiv.  Guise.  Insofar  as  I  have  irone  up  to  the  present  time  the  statements 
pertain  solely  and  only  to  construction  matters,  you  may  say.  There  may  be 
a  few  of  them  that  would  gn  further. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3373 

In  the  late  summer  and  early  fall  of  1920  I  sent  representatives  in  the  field 
to  determine,  so  far  as  possible,  the  question  of  the  receipt  of  prime  components 
for  operation.  It  was  necessary  for  them  to  proceed  to  New  York  to  secure 
records  there,  and  at  other  points,  particularly  on  nitrate  of  soda.  Tliere  were 
practically  no  receiving  reports  on  carload  shipments  of  components.  We  only 
had  car  records,  which  we  secured  by  the  method  of  proceeding  to  the  office 
of  the  railroad  company.  And  we  also  began  to  examine  into,  preparatory  to 
the  final  audit  on  operations,  the  costs  presented  by  the  du  Pont  Company,  as 
well  as  quantity.  The  contract  is  specific  as  to  the  question  of  costs  on  prime 
materials. 

27  In  one  instance,  which  was  the  only  one  that  I  had  completed  at  the 
time  I  left,  I  sent  a  memorandum  to  the  du  Pont  Company  pertaining  to 

the  question  of  linters,  calling  their  attention  to  the  fact  that  they  had  pur- 
chased under  his  contract — the  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Company  functioned 
with  and  alongside  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  and  their  expenses 
were  to  be  paid  according  to  the  items  of  the  contract;  all  expenses  incurred 
in  connection  with  the  contract  by  the  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Company 
would  be  included  with  the  account  of  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company.  I 
found  that  they  had  charged  the  United  States  a  considerable  amount  more 
than  they  had  expressed  in  the  contract.  I  had  become  rather  conversant 
with  the  costs,  and  I  received,  after  leaving  the  service,  a  note  from  the 
Philadelphia  Claims  Board,  enclosing  a  copy  of  their  minutes,  in  which  the 
E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Company  returned  to  the  United  States  a  certified 
check  for  something  like,  as  I  remember,  $136,000  as  reimbursement  for  a 
wrongful  charge  on   these  particular  materials. 

It  must  be  remembered  that  this  is  only  one  item  of  several  that  would  have 
to  be  reviewed  very  closely  and  carefully,  and  these  items  covered  a  very  large 
amount   of  the   $24,000,000. 

In  this  instance  there  was  not  any  question  but  what,  constructively,  it  was 
something  that  could  be  described,  if  a  person  wanted  to  act  arbitrarily,  as 
securing  something  that  they  were  not  entitled  to.  However,  as  I  remember, 
they  reimbursed — the  Philadelphia  Claims  Board  accepted  this  amount  tenta- 
tively, not  as  a  final  adjustment. 

28  I  will  say  this,  gentlemen.     I  do  not  care  anything  about  any  settlement 
that  has  been  made  on  operations.     I  do  not  believe  it  possible,  by  any 

method,  that  the  Ordnance  Department  or  the  Cost  Accounting  Branch  would 
endorse  at  the  present  time — that  is,  at  the  time  we  took  it — I  think  it  would 
be  impossible  to  make  a  definite  and  proper  audit  of  the  operating  costs  of  the 
du  Pont  Engineering  Company.  And  it  is  my  belief  that  any  settlement 
that  has  been  made  has  been  made  on  book  accounts  only  and  not  on  presenta- 
tion of  the  actual  amounts  expended  on  operation.     That  is  my  belief. 

I  reviewed  that  in  general  very  thoroughly.  I  found  records  that  should 
have  been  kept  by  the  Du  Pont  Co.  were  acid  eaten,  thrown  over  into  corners. 
There  was  nothing  that  was  kept  up  properly,  subject  to  the  review  of  the 
Ordnance  Department  officials.  And  the  mere  presentation  of  a  balance  sheet 
on  that  is  not  an  audit.  The  discrepancies  in  freight,  the  transfer  of  materials 
from  Hopewell,  Virginia,  to  Nashville,  so  as  to  reduce  the  amount  that  would 
come  in  from  excess  on  Hopewell,  and  miscellaneous  items  of  that  kind  at  the 
time  of  cancellation  were  enormous.  And  I  do  not  believe  myself  that  any 
definite  audit  can  be  made  without  a  very  thorough  investigation.  And  I  do 
not  believe,  when  you  get  down  to  the  question  of  justness,  you  will  ever  be 
able  to  get  anything  except  a  compromise  settlement.  And  I  would  certainly 
consider  any  compromise  settlement  based  on  the  presentation  that  was  given 
me  by  the  Du  Pont  Co.  as  being  something  entirely  wrong. 

General  Wilmams.  Major  Guise,  when  did  you  leave  the  Department? 

29  Mr.  Guise.  I  was  discharged  November  30,  1920. 

There  were  shipments  made  by  the  Nashville  plant  to  various  other 
points  of  acids  and  other  powder  components  and  other  materials,  and  it  was 
imposible  from  the  records  that  we  could  get  to  make  any  definite  audit.  We 
just  simply  scraped  the  surface  on  that.  I  do  not  believe  that  the  cost  of 
production  of  smokeless  powder  at  the  Nashville  plant  amounted  to  anywhere 
near  80  cents  a  pound — not  when  that  powder  was  produced  by  a  company 
that  has  been  manufacturing  powder  for  3  or  4  years  and  was  selling  it  to 
the  United  States  for  much  less  than  60  cents  a  pound  on  all  classes. 

General  Williams.  Was  it  not  specified  in  the  contract  just  how  the  cost  of 
the  powder  should  be  determined? 


3374  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Guise.  Yes.  They  charged  operation  costs  up  to  $24,000,000,  General, 
as  against  operation  costs  in  their  own  plants,  which  gave  them  a  profit — '■ 
charged  80  cents  a  pound  against  operation  costs  in  their  own  plants  that 
gave  them  a  profit  of  between  40  and  50  cents  a  pound  in  their  later  contracts. 

General  Williams.  Did  you  go  into  the  method  of  determining  the  cost  of 
the  powder  per  pound? 

Mr.  Guise.  No,  sir ;  I  did  not  get  to  that  point.  I  was  trying  to  get  the 
amount  of  materials  that  had  been  delivered  there,  and  the  amount  consumed. 

General  Williams.  Your  opinion,  then,  is  not  based  on  knowledge  of  the 
costs  ? 

Mr.  Guise.  We  have  a  statement  of  operating  costs.     I  am  taking  it 

30  now   in   gross,   not   in   detail.     Our   inventories   would   reduce   that,    of 
course,  to  some  extent,  but  the  Inventories  for  operating  costs  would  be 

represented  in  general  by  the  sulphur  and  nitrate  of  soda  and  linters,  and  so 
forth,  that  would  be  on  hand.  It  would  not  be  represented  by  any  construe^ 
tional  feature. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Major,  I  have  forgotten  during  the  space  of  the  few  months 
since  you  formerly  testified :  Was  it  you  that  testified  as  to  the  transfer  ot 
the  large  amount  of  operating  costs  into  construction  costs,  and  visa  verse? 

Mr.  Guise.  I  think  you  will  find  that  from  the  cost-accounting  branch.  That 
was  brought  to  my  attention,  but  I  do  not  think  there  is  any  question  in  rela^ 
tion  to  that  that  I  could  answer  at  the  present  time. 

Mr.  CarnouI'T.  While  I  am  interrupting  you,  you  testified  that  you  wel*e 
discharged  in  November  1920.  You  mean  you  were  honorably  discharged  from 
the  Army? 

Mr.  Guise.  I  was ;  yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  As  a  major? 

Mr.  GxnsE.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  In  order  to  get  on  the  record.  Major,  a  little  more  fully 
your  qualifications,  I  would  like  to  know  what  your  business  was  before  you 
became  an  Army  officer. 

Mr.  Guise.  I  was  consulting  engineer  for  certain  plants  Of  the  United  States 
Rubber  Company  for  about  seven  years.  Immediately  preceding  that  I  built 
probably  half  a  million  dollars  worth  of  chemical  plants,  nitrate  plants,  and 
other  plants  of  that  class.  For  about  a  year  and  a  half  I  dealt  with  railroad 
industrial  matters  as  chairman  of  a  special  committee,  in  relation  to  safety, 
sanitation,  welfare,  and  labor  problems. 

31  Mr.  Anderson.  Are  you  an  engineer  by  profession? 

Mr.  Guise.  I  am  not  a  graduate  engineer.  I  am  a  member  of  the 
American  Society  of  Mechanical  Engineers,  and  of  the  American  Institute  of 
Electrical  Engineers. 

Mr.  Anderson.  You  were  familiar  with  matters  of  accounting  and  construc- 
tion and  operating  accounts  prior  to  the  war,  were  you? 

Mr.  GuisEL  To  a  very  large  extent ;  yes.  For  a  period  of  about  10  or  12  years 
I  was  in  active  charge  of  production  and  manufacture  of  various  types.  And 
as  far  as  that  is  concerned,  I  was  a  student  of  the  Taylor  system  and  other 
systems  of  that  class. 

Mr.  Anderson.  You  spoke  of  linters  as  being  purchased  and  improperly 
charged  to  the  Government.  Will  you  explain  a  little  more  fully  what  you 
mean  there? 

Mr.  GxnsE.  Linters  were  purchased  by  the  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Company 
at  a  ceitain  definite  price,  a  price  at  this  time,  as  I  remember — no ;  that  was 
shavings ;  linters  were  purchased  under  a  pool.  Shavings  were  purchased  by 
the  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Company  at  a  certain  average  price,  and  were 
paid  for  or  charged  to  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  at  a  higher  price  than 
the  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Company  paid.  In  other  words,  there  was  some- 
thing ovei-  a  cent  a  pound  charged  in  there.  I  do  not  know — I  expect  Mr. 
McLane  i)robably  has  one  bundle  of  those  vouchers.  I  saw  them  the  last  time 
I  was  in  Washington,  when  I  was  first  called  in  for  an  inquiry. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Did  you  come  across  any  instances  where  linters  were  charged 
to  tlu'  United  States  at  excessive  weights? 

32  Mr.  Guise.  We  came  across  instances  where  it  was  impossible  to  recon- 
cile carload  weights  with  the  invoice  weights.     You  must  remember  that 

we  did  not  have  any  method  whatever — we  had  no  I'eceiving  reports  on  com- 
ponent materials ;  we  had  carloads  coming  in  there,  but  nothing  else.  The  only 
record  we  had  was  according  to  the  railroad  charges.  There  were  times  when 
the  invoic(>.s  did  not  agree  entirely  witli  the  railroad  total. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3375 

You  see,  the  question  that  we  had  in  mind  was  to  take  those  materials  en 
"bloc,  as  far  as  quantity  was  concerned,  add  up  the  total  amount  as  invoiced  of 
linters,  lor  example,  and  the  total  railroad  weights,  and  then  tind  out  what  the 
gross  discrepancy  was.  If  we  had  SO.OOO  pounds  according  to  the  sum  total  of 
invoices  for  linters,  and  we  had  49,000,000  pounds  on  the  railroad  weights,  why, 
we  would  validate  the  40,000,000  pounds  according  to  the  railroad  weights,  and 
let  the  contractor  prove,  by  some  method  or  other,  that  the  one  million  pounds 
discrepancy  had  been  delivered. 

Mr.  And'EKson.  Did  you  find  any  other  instances  that  you  now  recall  where 
goods  or  materials  were  charged  by  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  con- 
tracted from  the  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Company  or  other  subsidiaries  of  that 
company,  at  a  profit? 

Mr.  Guise.  That  is  rather  diflBcult  to  determine.     That  question  leads  into  an 

item  that  we  were  told  to  drop  when  we  started  to  investigate  it,  back  during 

the  investigation  of  claims.     It  was  considered  as  being  such  a  large  proposition 

that  we  would  not — it  was  not  considered  possible  to  do  anything  with  it.     That 

was  the  question  of  nitrate  of  soda. 

33  Mr.  Anderson.  As   a   matter  of  fairness  to  all   persons  concerned.   I 
would  like  to  ask  you  vi'ho  told  you  to  drop  it,  and  why? 

^Ir.  Guise.  Why,  we  were  informed  by  the  Chief  of  the  Philadelphia  District 
Claims  Board  that  we  had  so  many  other  things  to  take  care  of  that  it  would 
be  rather  difficult  for  us  to  take  that  up.  and  it  ought  to  be  taken  up  really 
through  Washington  rather  than  as  a  district  proposition,  it  being  national  in 
character.  The  idea  was  that  it  was  impossible  to  know  what  the  cost  to  the 
E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Company  was  on  nitrate  of  soda,  and  we  did  not 
know  whether  they  made  any  money  indirectly  through  their  agent.  Hemem- 
her.  the  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Company  furnishes  all  money  to  the  du  Pont 
Nitrates  Corporation ;  they  act  purely  and  solely  as  their  agent  in  handling  the 
transaction  relative  to  nitrate  of  soda  We  do  not  know  how  much  the  E.  I. 
du  Pont  de  Nemours  Company  made  by  those  transactions.  It  would  have  been 
impossible  for  us  to  go  into  that  definitely  and  in  detail. 

A  nitrate  committee  was  set  up,  composed,  as  I  remember,  of  three  or  four 
importers  of  nitrate  of  soda,  by  the  War  Industries  Board.  They  were  given 
full  authority  in  relation  to  this.  They  worked  in  conjunction  with  an  inter- 
allied board  overseas  for  the  fixing  of  prices,  and  it  was  such  a  complex  proposi- 
tion that  it  would  be  almost  interminable.  I  found  out  and  reported  just  ex- 
actly what  the  conditions  were,  and  it  was  up  to  my  superiors  to  take  care  of 
that. 

But  so  far  as  the  price  of  nitrate  of  soda  was  concerned  and  the 

34  charges  made  by  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  or  the  E.  I.  du  Pont 
de  Nemours  Company  to  the  United  States,  we  had  not  gotten  to  that  part. 

Each  item  was  being  taken  up  one  after  another,  and  it  would  be  impossible, 
without  a  very  large  force  and  a  considerably  larger  number  of  technical  men 
than  I  had,  to  have  gone  through  that  any  faster  than  we  did.  And  I  may  add 
we  worked  on  the  plan  of  the  old  Army  game,  thinking  we  were  through,  and 
letting  the  other  fellow  handle  it. 

We  had  fixed  prices  on  certain  definite  materials;  we  had  variable  prices 
on  certain  other  definite  materials.  The  price  of  nitrate  of  soda  varied  from 
month  to  month.  The  f.  a.  s.  price  was  fixed  through  London,  but  the  f.  o.  b. 
price  was,  of  course,  fixed  in  New  York,  and  to  determine  the  f.  o.  b.  meant 
the  reviewing  of  a  large  number  of  items  that  really  were  not  in  the  possession 
of  anybody  at  Philadelphia,  and  probably  not  at  Wilmington.  The  Nitrates 
Corporation  had  some  there.  But  we  did  review  that  item  of  costs ;  it 
had  to  be  reviewed,  and  we  did  review  it  in  conjunction  with  claims.  They 
were  adjusted,  though,  during  the  claims  audit.  As  I  stated,  in  my  opinion, 
to  have  really  cleared  up  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company's  contracts  would 
have  required  a  continuous  audit  of  a  year  to  a  year  and  a  half  longer  than 
we  had  already  gone. 

General  Williams.  It  ran  about  that  long,  did  it  not? 

Mr.  Guise.  Y'ou  must  rememlicr  that  the  actual  audit  did  not  start  until  late 

in  1919.  and  at  the  time  I  left  it  had  not  lasted  one  year.     For  a  year  and 

about  eight  months  cost  accountants  had  been  on  this  proposition,  making 

35  a  very  perfunctory  audit,  generally  speaking.     When  the  cost  accounting 
branch  at  the  Wilmington  office  wanted  the  supporting  vouchers  at  least 

in  behind  those  papers  they  did  not  have  them. 

The  Chairman.  It  is  almost  one  o'clock ;  I  think  probably  we  had  better 
adjourn  for  lunch. 


3376  MUIiilTIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Cabndtjff.  I  believe  Major  Guise  has  almost  completed  his  statement. 

Mr.  Guise.  I  cannot  say  much  more  in  relation  to  this.  As  far  as  details 
are  concerned,  there  are  records  pertainintr  to  this.  There  are  records  per- 
taining to  evei'.v  voucher,  so  far  as  the  disallowance  or  suspension  is  con- 
cerned. Full  and  complete  records  were  kept  riglit  along.  As  fast  as  we  got 
through  with  a  proposition  it  was  set  aside.  The  du  Pont  Company  was 
notified  when  a  voucher  was  thrown  into  suspense.  In  some  cases  they  said, 
"  Oh,  we  had  all  the  records."  In  other  cases  the  statement  was  "  We  Lave 
not  got  anything  beyond  what  yoii  have  already  got."  It  was  plainly  apparent, 
the  lack  of  interest  on  the  part  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Company  and 
the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  as  to  the  furnisliing  of  information,  and 
what  you  might  call  cooperation  in  general.  We  found  some  opposition  in 
relation  to  claims  in  the  earlier  stages ;  we  found  no  cooperation  in  relation 
to  the  others. 

I  asked  them  where  all  these  prime  vouchers  and  supporting  vouchers  were. 

They  informed  me  they  did  not  need  to  keep  them ;  they  were  not  required 

to  keep  anything  but  just  simply  general  records.     And  as  you  know — 

36  at  least,  it  was  War  Department  procedure — we  had  to  have  reasonable 
legal   evidence  to  pay  any  vouclier,  and  that  evidence  had  to  be  of  a 

kind  that  would  be  accepted,  not  only  by  the  certifying  officer  but  also  by 
the  disbursing  officer  and  by  the  Comptroller  of  the  Treasury.  I  went  so  far 
as  to  interview  the  Comptroller's  office  in  relation  to  this,  and  they  told  me 
that  if  we  did  not  liave  the  evidence  they  would  not  accept  it  in  a  thousand 
years,  and  the  evidence  was  not  there.  That  is  the  sum  and  substance  of  the 
whole  thing.  In  relation  to  personal  exiJense  vouchers,  I  requested  the  con- 
tractor to  give  me  an  affidavit,  signed  by  any  responsible  representative  of 
the  contractor,  that  could  be  attached,  that  the  expenditures  for  which  tliey 
asked  reimbursement  were  necessary  and  required  for  the  purpo.se  of  the 
contract  and  that  the  expenditures  had  actually  been  made,  and  they  refused 
to  give  nie  the  affidavit.  Well,  if  they,  with  their  closer  and  more  direct 
knowledge  than  I  had,  could  not  do  that,  I  certainly  would  hesitate  very 
much  about  certifying  and  validating  an  expenditure  of  that  class.  A  reviewal 
of  those  alone  would  have  required  three  or  four  men  for  a  period  of  several 
months. 

Expenditures  were  charged  in  personal  expense  vouchers  for  round-about 
trips— I  will  even  say  holidays.  Personal  expense  vouchers  were  rendered  for 
the  transportation  of  other  people  on  many  of  them,  as  far  as  that  is  con- 
cerned, over  and  above  the  employee  or  his  immediate  family.  It  would  be 
impossible  to  cite  all  tlie  instances.  I  remember  one  in  particular  wliere  a 
man  was  employed  in  New  Jersey,  and  went  out  to  Indiana  and  visited 

37  a  few  days  out  there,  and  took  his  wife's  father  and  mother  to  Nashville, 
and  the  entire  amount  was  cliarged.  Of  course,  we  get  rather  hard- 
boiled  in  relation  to  vouchers,  and  it  does  not  matter  whether  it  is  for  a 
dollar  or  a  million  dollars,  our  attitude  toward  that  voucher  is  just  the  same. 
This  may  not  have  amounted  to  more  than  eight  or  ten  dollars,  but  there 
were  any  number  of  otlier  cases  of  that  same  character. 

Colonel  Hull.  You  do  not  Ivuow  whether  the  suspension  was  ever  removed 
on  that  voucher  or  not,  do  you,  sir? 

Mr.  Guise.  I  do  not  know  anything  about  that.  Those  vouchers  were  thrown 
into  suspension  until  they  were  finally  audited. 

General  Williams.  I  think  that  for  the  purpose  of  this  committee  the  essen- 
tial thing  is  what  was  finally  done,  not  what  the  situation  was  in  an  inter- 
mediate stage.  I  do  not  believe  it  is  material  what  Major  Guise  did,  if  the 
settlement  was  gone  into  by  the  agencies  of  the  Government  and  agreement 
was  readied. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  think,  General,  that  the  purpose  of  these  gentlemen  is  to 
present  to  us  the  series  of  steps,  and  then  call  Major  Fnrr.  who  handled  this 
matter  finally  in  relation  to  Colonel  Hull,  and  develop  what  did  take  place  in 
the  final  analysis.  These  matters  have  been  the  subject  of  a  great  deal  of  dis- 
cussion, and  while  it  t;ik('s  up  a  great  amount  of  time  to  go  through  them  I 
think  it  would  be  just  as  well  to  go  through  them  and  dispose  of  them  for  all 
time.  Uidess  we  know  how  it  started  we  do  not  know  the  process  by  which 
it  reached  final  adjustment. 

38  General  Williams.  Are  we  concerned  with   anything  more  than   the 
sufficiency  of  tlie  evidence  on  which  payments  were  made?    Are  we  con- 
cerned with  the  process  by  which  that  evidence  was  gotten? 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  think  we  are  concerned  this  far,  that  if,  even  in  the  best  of 
faith,  there  were  errors  made  or  evidence  furnished  of  any  other  situation  which 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3377 

required  a  final  audit^ — or  it  may  be  a  simple  accounting — against  the  du  Pont 
Engineering  Company,  it  would  be  necessary  for  us  to  develop  those  facts  here; 
because  we  might,  upon  the  final  action  taken,  reach  a  conclusion  on  the  subject 
of  whether  there  is  necessity  for  a  complete  audit,  or  whether  there  is  neces- 
sity for  an  accounting  different  from  what  we  might  reach  if  we  developetl 
the  situation  from  the  beginning.  It  is  just  what  each  person  discovers  in 
connection  with  it,  taking  each  side. 

So  while  we  are  at  it  I  would  suggest  that  we  finish  it ;  that  we  begin  at 
the  beginning  and  end  at  the  close ;  and  then  decide  that  we  are  going  to  have 
an  accounting  or  that  we  are  going  to  close  this  case  once  for  all.  Because  it 
is  coming  up  constantly  at  one  end  of  the  line — I  do'  not  know  whether  it  is 
with  you  at  the  other — and  there  is  hardly  a  day  passes  that  somebody  does 
not  come  in  with  a  complaint  about  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company.  So 
I  told  Major  Carnduff  to  go  to  the  bottom  of  the  thing  from  our  standpoint 
and  let  us  know  where  we  stand.  It  may  be  when  we  get  through  with  it 
we  will  find  it  has  already  been  done. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Let  me  say,  Colonel,  that  we  did  not  initiate  this. 

39  Mr.  Anderson.  Oh,  yes ;  this  was  brought  to  my  attention  through  the 
district  attorney  originally,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  through  these  various 

reports,  and  other  sources. 

The  Chairman.  Are  there  any  other  questions? 

Colonel  Htjll.  I  have  a  number  of  questions. 

The  Chairman.  I  think  we  had  better  suspend. 

(Whereupon,  at  1 :  10  o'clock  p.  m.,  a  recess  was  taken  until  2  o'clock  p.  m.) 

40  AFTER   RECESS 

The  committee  resumed  its  session  at  2  o'clock  p.  m.  pursuant  to  the  taking 
of  recess. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Secretary  Davis  has  informed  me  that  he  cannot  be  here  until 
about  three  o'clock,  so  we  shall  have  to  go  ahead  without  him. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Mr.  Chairman,  as  to  a  few  matters  in  relation  to  the  account- 
ing phase  of  this  investigation,  Mr.  Cameron,  who  investigated  it  for  the  Depart- 
ment, has  a  few  questions  to  direct  to  Major  Guise. 

Mr.  Camexon.  Major,  did  you  make  any  examination  to  determine  the  receiv- 
ing system  at  the  Old  Hickoi-y  plant? 

Mr.  Guise.  AN'hy,  I  went  into  it  in  a  general  way.  I  had  put  men  at  the  plant 
to  examine  into  that  matter  in  its  entirety ;  and,  in  fact,  all  invoices  were  for- 
warded to  Old  Hickory  with  directions  to  the  force  at  Old  Hickory  plant  to 
attach  the  receiving  report  where  possible. 

Mr.  Cameron.  But  did  you  make  any  inquiry  into  the  method  of  the  receiving 
of  goods  at  the  time  the  goods  were  received — the  system  that  was  in  vogue  of 
the  time  the  goods  were  received? 

Mr.  Guise.  The  receipt  in  general  was  taken  up  by  the  Du  Pont  Engineering 
Company.  The  Army  inspector  of  ordnance  was  supposed  to  be  able  to  verify 
their  receipt  of  material,  and  did  have  checkers — insufficient  in  number  to  check 
everything  in  its  entirety  :  there  was  not  any  question  about  that. 

Mr.  Cameron.  You  did  find,  in  your  investigation,  however,  that  the  Du  Pont 
Engineering  Company  had  checkers  out  in  the  yard? 

41  Mr.  Guise.  They  had  checkers  around  various  points  in  the  plant,  and 
a  considerable  amount  of  material  was  actually  checked  in  there.     In 

other  cases  it  was  unloaded  in  the  field,  and  they  took  memoranda  of  it  and 
asked  tlie  field  engineer  to  sign  them. 

Mr.  Cameron.  Who  told  you  that,  Major? 

Mr.  Guise.  In  that  case  it  was  an  employee — an  old  employee  of  the  Du  Pont 
Engineering  Company. 

Mr.  Camekon.  Do  you  remember  his  name? 

Mr.  Guise.  I  don't  remember  his  name — working  for  the  Ordnance  Depart- 
ment, one  of  our  witnesses.     Y"ou  can  refresh  my  memory 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Bridwell? 

IVIr.  Guise.  Bridwell.     Bridwell  was  one  of  them. 

Mr.  Cameuon.  Did  you  find  also  in  making  this  inspection  that  the  Govern- 
ment had  what  were  known  as  yard  clerks  and  yard  checkers? 

Mr.  Guise.  They  had  checkers. 

IMr.  Cameron.  Checkers  out  in  the  yard? 

Mr.  Guise.  They  had  checkers  in  the  yard  also. 

Mr.  Cameeon.  Did  you  make  any  investigation  to  find  out  what  the  duties  of 
those  yard  checkers  were? 


3378  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Guise.  The  receipt  of  material — their  duties  are  plainly  defined  so  far  as 
the  receipt  of  material  is  concerned — and  the  verification  thereof  by  the  Ord- 
nance Department  or,  you  might  say,  in  the  accounting  branch  of  the  War 
Department.     A  checlier  should  be  able  to  verify  the  receipt  of  materials  charged 

to  or  against  the  contractor 

Mr.  Cameron.  I  will  expedite  the  matter  by  interrupting  you.     I  really 

42  was  not  asking  what  they  should  do.     My  question  may  not  have  been 
phrased  properly.     I  was  not  asking  what  they  should  do  under  the  regu- 
lations, but  what  your  development  was  of  what  they  did  do. 

Mr.  GnsE.  Why,  they  checked  about  10'  percent,  as  near  as  I  could  tell  by  all 
the  evidence  it  was  posible  to  procure. 

Mr.  Camebon.  Will  yoi;  tell  us  just  how  you  came  to  the  conclusion  that  these 
checkers  checked  about  10  percent? 

Mr.  Guise.  By  examining  tlie  records  and  finding  out  the  actual  verification 
of  the  receiving  reports  by  Ordnance  employees 

Mr.  Cameron.  You  base  that  conclusion,  then,  on  the  number  of  receipts  that 
you  found  which  bore  evidence  that  they  had  been  signed  by  a  yard  clerk? 

Mr.  Guise.  By  Ordnance  representatives. 

Mr.  Cameron.  In  the  yard? 

Mr.  Guise.  That  would  be  impossible  for  me  to  determine.  You  must  re- 
member thi.s,  that  as  far  as  the  administration  in  the  field  was  concerned  it  was 
properly  under  the  Ordnance  ofiicer  in  charge.  If  he  saw  fit  to  have  his  men 
check  at  a  certain  unloading  point  in  the  yard  or  anywhere  else,  he  probably 
would  direct  them  to  proceed  to  tliat  point,  and  that  service  might  require  them 
to  be  a  mile  away  from  the  normal  unloading  point.  But  they  could  check 
at  that  point  as  well  as  they  could  at  the  unloading  platform  or  anywhere  else. 
I  could  not  tell  by  the  figures  whether  they  were  checking  a  car  being  unloaded 
in  the  field  or  cliecking  at  a  storehouse  to  be  unloaded  on  platforms. 

43  Mr.  Cameron.  But  you  did  distinguish  the  receiving  record  which  bore 
evidence  of  having  had  some  sort  of  independent  checking  as  compared 

with  some  sort  of  record  wthich  bore  evidence  of  having  been  written  in  the 
same  longhand  writing,  beginning  with  the  date  and  running  right  through  to 
the  signatui-e? 

Mr.  Guise.  You  must  remember  this,  that  those  did  not  bear  any  evidence  of 
having  been  checked  by  an  Ordnance  representative.  These  fabricated — I  will 
put  it  that  way,  plainly ;  that  is  what  I  think  tliey  are.  These  fabricated 
receiving  records  bore  no  evidence  of  having  been  presented  to  an  Ordnance 
Department  representative. 

Mr.  Cameron.  Major,  were  you  ever  told  what  records  these  receiving  clerks 
in  the  yards  did  have? 

Mr.  Guise.  You  mean  Ordnance  receiving  clerks? 

Mr.  Cameron.  Any  clerks. 

Mr.  Guise.  Ob,  any  clerks?  Well,  there  was  some  particular  form  of  card 
used  in  connection  with  the  direct  receiving.  There  was  a  different  form  in 
most  of  these  fabricated  reports.  There  was  a  different  type  of  form  entirely, 
and  no  so-called  "  cliecker's  card  "  accompanied  the  report. 

Mr.  Camebon.  I  hope,  Major,  you  do  not  think  I  am  trying  to  break  down  your 
testimony 

Mr.  Guise.  Oh,  no. 

Mr.  Cameron.  But  I  would  like  to  ask  you  whether  or  not  you  recall  having 

been  told  of  certain  yard  clerks  in  the  Ordnance  Department — that  is,  they  were 

representing  the  Government,  receiving  goods — had  certain  blank  books, 

44  blank  receiving  records,  in  which  they  would  record  the  receipt  of  goods 
as  they  came  in  at  that  station. 

Mr.  Guise.  That  is  correct. 

Mr.  Cameron.  Now,  I  want  to  ask  you — you  spoke  of  a  fabricated  receipt. 
That  is,  because  it  was  written  in  the  same  handwriting,  because  hundreds  of 
them  were  written  in  the  same  handwriting,  to  you  that  would  suggest  that  that 
was  fabricated ;  and  by  "  fabricated  "  I  understand  you  to  mean  that  that  was 
not  a  valid  receiving  record? 

Mr.  Guise.  So  far  as  we  could  determine,  it  was  a  copy  of  the  invoice. 

Mr.  Cameron.  And  do  you  know  whether  or  not  the  du  Pont  Company  gave 
any  instructions — or  do  you  know  whether  anyone  gave  any  instructions  that 
when  these  yard  clerks.  Ordnance  clerks,  or  clerks  representing  the  Government 
in  the  yard,  brought  in  their  blank  books  it  was  the  duty  of  the  recoi-d  clerks  in 
the  receiving  department,  in  the  office,  to  make  a  transcript  on  the  receiving 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3379 

form  and  attacli  such  transcript  and  form  to  tlK^  invoice  after  liaving  evidenced 
tlie  receipt  of  goods  in  tlie  yard? 

Mr.  Guise.  AViiy,  I  liave  no  direct  evidence  tliat  they  ever  did  or  did  not.  All 
I  know  is  that  there  were  some  valid  receiving  reports  with  the  checker's  card 
attached.  Tlie  difference  between  a  clerk  in  the  field  and  a  checker  is  this:  A 
checker  was  the  man  who  received  th.e  goods  and  checked  against  tlie  quantities. 
The  clerk  was  the  man  who  transcribed  only.  I  know  that  there  were  receiving 
reports  that  had  duplicate  checker's  cards.  The  checker's  cards  invariably,  I 
will  say,  so  far  as  I  examined  them,  had  also  a  validation  by  the  Ordnance 
4a  Department  representative ;  but  that  included  only  about  10  percent  of 
the  total. 

Mr.  Cameron.  Is  the  committee  to  understand  that  the  checker's  cards  were 
missing? 

Mr.  Guise.  Well,  the  checker's  cards  were  not  there.  They  undoubtedly  were 
missing. 

Mr.  Cameron.  And  an  investigation  was  made  to  locate  them? 

]Mr.  Guise.  Oli,  yes ;  we  looked  everywhere. 

Mr.  Camebon.  And  inquiry  was  made  of  the  du  Pont  Company? 

Mr.  Guise.  The  du  Pont  Company  stated  that  they  had  left  all  these  records 
behind,  in  charge  of  the  Ordnance  Department  representative,  and  they  were 
not  further  interested. 

Mr.  Carxduff.  Do  you  know  wliether  there  ever  were  any  such  checker's 
cards? 

Mr.  Guise.  I  have  no  evidence  in  either  direction ;  they  were  not  in  the  files. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Your  assumption  is  that  there  was  a  10-percent  check,  is 
it  not? 

Mv.  Guise.  That  was  the  actual  order  given  by  the  Ordnance  representative 
in  the  field. 

IMr.  Carnduff.  Will  you  state  what  that  order  was,  as  you  understand  it? 

Mr.  Guise.  I  cannot  give  it  verbatim.     In  general,  it  was  that  on  account  of 

tlie  impossibility  of  checking  everything  there   they  had  decided   to  make  a 

ten-percent  check  and  pass  the  other  90  percent  on  the  basis  of  the  10- 

46  percent  check. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  And  it  was  understood  that  this  10-percent  check  was 
at  the  actual  time  the  goods  were  received? 

Mr.  Guise.  Well,  that  is  not  definitely  stated  in  the  memorandum  sent  out. 
Copies  of  that  are  attached  to  my  final  report  on  this  particular  proposition. 
While  I  have  not  go  any  direct  evidence  that  the  10-percent  check  was  the  only- 
check  made  by  the  checkers  in  the  field,  we  have  no  documentary  evidence  to 
the  effect  that  any  check  was  made. 

Mr.  Cameron.  Upon  what  do  yon  base  your  opinion  that  only  10  percent 
were  checked? 

Mr.  Guise.  Well,  because  the  man  in  charge,  the  ofiicer  in  charge,  stated 
that  that  was  what  he  was  going  to  do ;  that  he  intended  to  confine  himself 
to  a  10-percent  check. 

General  Williams.  You  were  down  there  about  2  years  after  the  thing  was 
completed,  were  you  not — after  the  material  was  received? 

Mr.  Guise.  About  a  year  or  a  year  and  a  half,  I  should  say.  It  varied  from 
a  year  to  a  year  and  a  half. 

General  Williams.  So  you  are  just  telling  us  the  gossip  that  you  heard 
around  the  plant? 

Mr.  Guise.  Oh,  no ;  I  am  telling  you  what  I  found  in  the  files,  and  I  have 
also  the  documentary  evidence  as  to  the  statements  made  by  the  oflScer  in 
charge. 

General  Williams.  But  you  are  testifying  here  as  to  instructions  that  were 
given,  as  I  understand? 

47  Mr.  Guise.  The  written  instructions  were  in  the  file  to  that  effect. 
General  Williams.  As  to  what  was  done  in  the  matter  of  checking  up 

these  goods  as  received  you  have  no  first-hand  information,  apparently? 

Mr.  Guise.  Only  documentary  evidence  and  affidavits. 

Genei'al  Williams.  And  gossip  that  you  heard? 

Mr.  Guise.  Well,  and  affidavits  also.  You  see,  the  only  way  I  could  find 
out — I  tried  to  ascertain  why  there  were  not  more  records  and  more  definite 
certification  as  to  the  receipt  of  materials  on  the  invoices  or  on  the  receiving 
reports  accompanying  them. 

General  Williams.  Did  you  investigate  any  of  the  circumstances  under 
which  this  material  was  received,  as  to  whether  or  not  there  was  any  conges- 


3380  MUNITIONS    INDUSTKY 

tion  of  cars,  delay  in  handling,  and  so  on,  expedition  being  one  of  the  prin- 
cipal things 

Mr.  Guise.  Yes,  that  is  correct. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Who  was  the  ordnance  officer  in  charge  of  field  construction? 

Mr.  Guise.  Captain  Foulke. 

Mr.  Andebson.  Is  he  still  in  the  Army? 

Mr.  Guise.  I  know  nothing  against  his  character  whatsoever. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  mean,  is  he  still  in  the  Anny? 

Mr.  Guise.  Oh,  no,  sir.    No,  sir ;  he  was  a  temporary  officer. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  did  not  mean  in  asking  that  question  to  imply  that  there 
was  any  suggestion  of  anything  against  him. 

48  Mr.  Guise.  I  know  nothing  personally  against  the  man  whatsoever,  as 
far  as  his  character  or  anything  else  is  concerned. 

Mr.  Cameron.  Major,  you  were  telling  us  about  a  shortage  in  weights  of 
materials,  which  you  endeavored  to  reconcile  by  tracing  the  cars? 

Mr.  Guise.  Not  necessarily  shortage  in  weights.  That  was  only  determined 
in  gross,  while  we  had  large  amounts  of  materials  coming  in. 

Mr.  Cameron.  I  speak  of  the  point  in  your  testimony  in  which  you  referred 
to  reconciliation  en  bloc  from  bills  or  invoices 

Mr.  Guise.  That  is  right. 

Mr.  Cameron.  And  I  think  you  referred  to  weights,  did  you  not? 

Mr.  Guise.  Yes. 

Mr.  Cameron.  What  was  the  purpose  of  that  reconciliation? 

Mr.  Guise.  So  as  to  determine  absolutely  the  amount  of  materials  received 
at  the  plant. 

Mr.  Camesjon.  According  to  the  invoices? 

Mr.  Guise.  No;  to  determine  the  actual  amount;  to  ascertain  the  actual 
amount,  so  far  as  we  could,  from  the  railroad  records  of  various  materials 
that  were  delivered  at  the  plant,  regardless  of  the  invoices.  Then  by  taking  en 
bloc  the  weights  as  shown  on  the  invoices  against  the  amounts  shown  by  the 
railroad's  records  we  would  be  able  to  indicate  a  shortage  or  an  overage. 

Mr.  Camebon.  And  in  instances  you  did  indicate  shortages  and  over- 
ages? 

49  Mr.  Guise.  We  could  not  reconcile  on  certain  shipments 

Mr.  Cameron." But  en  bloc? 

Mr.  Guise.  En  bloc  we  never  had  gotten  to  that  point.  But  we  knew  there 
were  shortages ;  there  were  shortages  so  far  as  the  invoice  records  as  against 
card  records  were  concerned.    We  had  not  determined  as  to  shortages  en  bloc. 

Mr.  Cameron.  You  remember  having  heard,  I  imagine,  in  this  investigation 
some  rather  grave  charges  with  reference  to  some  freight-rate  manipulations, 
do  you  not? 

Mr.  Guise.  There  were  some  radical  variations  in  freight  rates,  which  jt  was 
impossible  for  us  to  reconcile,  but  those  had  (not?)*  been  reviewed  and  audited 
at  the  time  I  left.  I  will  carry  it  further.  The  railroad  companies  themselves 
had  agreed,  and,  in  fact,  were  perfectly  willing  to  hand  back  a  consid- 
erable amount  of  overcharges  that  they  had  made,  on  account  of  a  reviewal 
of  their  books  in  connection  with  overcharges.  But  there  had  not  been  any 
other  review  of  the  freight  rates  at  the  time  I  left. 

Mr.  Cameuon.  Assuming  then  that  there  were  gross  irregularities  in  the 
freight  rates 

General  Williams.  Why  should  we  assume  that?  Why  should  we  assume 
fraud  before  it  is  proven? 

Mr.  Cameron.  I  am  not  going  to  assume  any  fraud  in  this  inquiry.  If  you 
will  permit  him  to  answer  this  question  you  will  at  once  know 

General  Williams.  Well,  is  it  necessary  for  you  to  phrase  your  question  that 
way? 

Mr.  Cameiron.  I  think  it  is.  Assuming  irregularities  in  the  invoices  and 
weights,  .irregularities  as  between  invoices  and  freight  bills,  I  want  to 

50  show  that  the  witness  could  not  reconcile  weights  on  invoices  with  the 
freight  bills.     I  want  to  show  that  it  will  be  impossible  to  reconcile  the 

weights  charged  for  in  the  invoices  with  the  freight  bills  and  assume  at  the 
same  time  that  the  freight  bills  were  grossly  irregular. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  do  not  quite  follow  you.  Mr.  Cameron. 

Mr.  Cameron.  Assuming,  for  instance.  Colonel  Anderson,  that  there  were 
gross  irregularities  in  the  freight  bills — and  those  charges  have  been  made; 


(Not)  Inserted  in  pencil  in  original. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3381 

but  that  is  not  A  charge  against  the  War  Department,  that  is  h6t  a  Charge 
•against  any  officer  or  official  of  the  Government 

General  Williams.  We  are  not  here  to  consider  only  the  War  Department's 
side  of  it,  but  the  contractor's  side  of  it ■ 

Mr.  Camekon.  I  will  also  say  that  this  is  no  reflection  in  any  manner,  di- 
rectly or  indirectly,  on  the  contractor. 

General  Williams.  It  is  in  my  mind,  the  way  I  see  it. 

Mr.  Cameron.  I  am  sorry  if  I  have  not  made  myself  plain. 

General  Williams.  I  object  to  your  question  and  the  phrasing  of  it. 

Mr.  Anderson.  See  if  you  cannot  phrase  it  a  little  differently,  without  as- 
suming anything  that  is  involved. 

Mr.  Carnduip.  If  I  may  be  permitted,  I  think  the  Louisville  &  Nashville 
Railroad  have  voluntai-ily  offered  to  refund  .$27,0<K),  if  we  agree  to  take  it, 
so  we  assume  there  must  have  been  something  irregular  when  the  railroatl 
company  on  its  own  volition  is  willing  to  return  that  sum  to  us. 

51  General  Williams.  That  in  my  mind  is  not  an  argument.    Errors  may 
perfectly  well  enter  into  an  accounting. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Suppose  you  put  your  question  this  way :  Assuming  there 
were  errors  in  freight  charges,  then  what  would  follow? — instead  of  "irregu- 
larities." The  word  "  irregularities "  implies  something  that  is  out  of  the 
ordinary.     Errors  in  freight  charges  are  very  ordinary. 

Mr.  McLane.  May  I  interrupt  there?  The  witness  has  stated  that  he  found 
gross  irregularities  in  the  freight  charges.  That  is  a  positive  statement.  Now, 
there  could  not  be  any  assumption  in  Mr.  Cameron's  question,  taking  a  state- 
ment of  fact  and  applying  it.  This  witness  has  stated  that  he  found  gross 
irregularities  in  freight  rates. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Would  it  not  be  just  as  effective  for  the  purpose  of  the  record 
if  we  said  there  were  errors  in  freight  charges? 

Mr.  Cameron.  I  am  quite  sure  it  would  be  to  me. 

Mr.  Anderson.  All  right ;  let  us  have  it  that  way.  An  error  is  an  iri*egu- 
larity  in  one  sense,  but  it  is  not  a  fraudulent  irregularity. 

Mr.    CAME210N.  Assuming,    Major,    that    there    were    errors    in    the   freight 
bills- 
Mr.  Guise.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Cameron.  Then  the  reconciliation  between  the  weights  as  shown  on  the 
invoices  and  the  weights  as  shown  on  the  railroad  freight  bills  would  amount 
to  nothing  in  the  way  of  an  audit? 

Mr.  Guise.  It  w^ould  immediately  throw  the  question  in  doubt. 

52  Mr.  Cameron.  That  is  all  I  wanted  to  ask  you  about  that. 

Mr.  Guise.  You  must  remember,  however,  as  I  explained,  that  the  only 
record  of  any  description  that  we  had  in  relation  to  the  component  mate- 
rials as  far  as  the  i-eceipt  was  concerned,  checked  against  statements  of  the 
contractor — that  is,  the  invoices  as  presented — was  the  freight  bills,  or  the 
books — that  is  what  we  checked  up.  We  did  not  take  the  freight  bills ;  we  took 
the  books  of  the  Louisville  &  Nashville  and  went  into  questions  of  demurrage 
and  everything  at  the  same  time.  That  w\is  the  only  way  we  had  to  even  come 
near  checking  against  the  quantities  shown  on  the  invoices. 

Mr.  CAMEa?oN.  Major,  you  made  a  voluntary  statement  with  respect  to  the 
cost  of  operation,  and  you  used  the  expression  that  a  mere  presentation  of  the 
balance  sheet  would  show  nothing. 

Mr.  Gxn&E,  No;  unless  supported  by  the  primary  evidence  complete.  A  pre- 
sentation of  an  account  is  simply  a  statement  made  by  an  interested  party  as  to 
expenditures  claimed. 

Mr.  Cameron.  Were  you  called  upon  to  audit  the  cost  of  operation? 

Mr.  Guise.  That  was  not  started  at  the  time  I  left.  We  were  beginning  to 
audit  quantities. 

Mr.  Cameron.  But  did  you  not  make  the  statement  that  it  could  not  be  done 
now? 

Mr.  Guise.  I  do  not  think  that  a  real  audit,  on  account  of  the  lack  of  records, 
could  be  made  now — definitely  and  legally  audited :  I  will  put  it  that  way. 

Mr.   Cameron.  Did  you  evpr  see  the  books  of  the  du   Pont  Engineering 
Company? 
53  Mr.  Guise.  No. 

Mr.  Cameron.  You  never  saw  the  operation  accounts  of  the  du  Pont 
Engineering  Company? 


3382  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Ml-.  Guise.  The  only  statement  ever  given  to  me  by  the  du  Pont  Engineering 
Company  was  a  general  balance  sheet. 

Mr.  Cameron.  And  when  you  mean  it  could  not  be  done  you  mean  on  anything 
you  had  ever  seen? 

Mr.  Guise.  You  must  remember  this,  that  when  we  come  to  the  question  of  a 
dehnite  audit,  we  do  not  only  audit  the  books  of  the  company.  I  do  not  mean 
day-book  records  of  the  cost  of  operation,  or  the  original  pay  rolls  and  material 
accounting  at  the  factory.  A  ledger  or  a  journal,  for  a  definite  accounting  is — 
when  I  say  "  fabricated  "  you  understand,  gentlemen,  I  do  not  mean  that  it  is  a 
false  account ;  it  is  a  fabricated  account,  built  of  many  memoranda  and  day- 
book charges,  and  those  are  the  legal  evidence. 

Mr.  Camehon.  Major,  I  am  not  going  into  any  discussion  of  accounting  with 
you,  but  I  am  going  to  tell  you  that  I  do  not  agree  with  you.  However,  I  am 
not  going  to  enter  into  any  discussion  with  you. 

Mr.  Guise.  You  put  a  man's  ledger  up  in  front  of  a  court  and  see  what  it 
amounts  to  without  something  back  of  it. 

Mr.  Cameron.  I  was  just  trying  to  get,  for  the  sake  of  the  committee,  some 
intimation  that  you  made  with  respect  to  the  audit  of  the  cost  of  operation. 

Mr.  Guise.  You  can  undoubtedly  get  it  in  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company's 

records  at  Wilmington.     They  undoubtedly  would  have  full  accounts— that  is,. 

ledger  accounts — of  the  cost  of  operation  at  Old  Plickory.     I  am  speaking 

54  now  of  ledger  accounts. 

General  Williams.  I  would  like  to  ask  you.  Major,  a  question  al)out 
the  cost  of  itowder.  You  said,  I  think,  that  you  did  not  think  the  cost  of  iK)wder 
was  less  than  80-and-some-odd  cents  a  pound. 

Mr.  Guise.  Sir? 

General  Williams.  I  think  you  gave  it  as  your  opinion  the  cost  of  the  powder 
was  not  less  than  something  like  Sb  cents  a  pound. 

Mr.  Guise.  Averaging  it  through  on  their  claimed  cost. 

General  Williams.  In  arriving  at  your  estimate  did  you  make  allowance  for 
the  surplus  material  that  was  left  in  stock? 

Mr.  Guise.  No ;  and  there  were  several  million  dollars  worth  of  that  left 
there.  I  just  roughed  it  off.  I  would  have  to  modify  that  statement  to  that 
extent.  If  inventories  were  taken  out  you  would  find  though.  General,  that  you 
would  still  run  your  operating  cost  higher  than  any  price  we  paid  for  powder 
along  in  that  time  of  the  year,  that  is  all. 

General  Williams.  That  is  entirely  susceptible,  I  take  it,  of  closer  examina- 
tion ? 

Mr.  Guise.  I  will  acknowledge  the  error  made  there ;  that  was  a  definite  error ; 
I  should  have  correct  inventories,  and  those  we  had  not  reviewed  to  any  extent, 
although  we  knew  approximately  what  they  were. 

Colonel  Hull.  Major,  you  were  foi-  some  time  in  charge  of  this  reaudit  the 
War  Department  ordered  in  1919,  were  you  not? 

Mr.  Guise.  I  was  not  in  definite  charge;  only  in  a  general  way.     The 

55  accounting  branch  was,  as  you  know,  rather  independent.     I  did  not  control 

their  activities. 

Colonel  Hull.  Who  was  put  in  charge  of  tliat  to  start  with? 

Mr.  Guise.  You  mean  of  the  cost  accounting  branch? 

Colonel  Hull.  Yes;  of  the  reaudit? 

Mr.  Guise.  Well,  so  far  as  the  contracting  officer's  and  commanding  officer's 
end  was  concerned,  I  had  that — the  supervising  cost  accounting.  At  the  time 
I  took  charge 

Colonel  Hull.  During  the  fall  of  1919? 

Mr.  Guise.  During  the  fall  of  1919  tliere  were  several 

Colonel  HuxL.  Cobb  was  in  charge  of  the  work,  wasn't  he? 

Mr.  Guise.  Cobb  was  in  general  charge  of  it. 

Colonel  Hull.  And  that  audit  work  was  directed  by  Mr.  Door,  wasn't  it? 

Mr.  Guise.  I  believe  that  was  tlie  name. 

Colonel  Hull.  Were  you  one  of  the  ])arties  that  came  down  from  Philadelphiii 
and  recommended  a  complete  audit  of  that  matter? 

Mr.  Guise.  I  made  a  recommendation  at  Philadelphia. 

Colonel   Hull.  You   made  the   recommendation   in  writing  at  Philadelphia? 

Mr.  Guise.  Yes.  I  don't  remember  now ;  I  came  to  Washington  two  or  three 
times,  and  I  might  have  talked  to  Mr.  Door,  but  I  was  not  in  the  conference. 

Colonel  Hull.  But  anyway  the  War  Department  did  direct  a  complete  exam- 
ination of  all  these  matters? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3383 

Mr.  Guise.  Yes,  sir. 

Colonel  HiyLL.  And  you  were  put  in  charge  of  one  feature  of  it,  and 

56  Mr.  Cobb  was  put  in  charge  of  the  contracting  feature. 

Mr.  Guise.  Cobb  took  general  oversight.  Of  course,  he  had  supt-rvisiug 
accountants  that  were  doing  the  work. 

Colonel  Hull.  And  that  work  was  ordered  in  the  fall  of  1919,  and  started 
about  January  of  1920,  did  it  not? 

Mr.  Guise.  Some  of  the  work  was  started  immediately.  That  was  more 
properly  a  reviewal  and  examination  of  conditicms  to  ascertain  how  far  we 
could  go  in  the  matter  of  records  and  other  things  of  that  kind. 

Colonel  Hull.  The  class  of  men  that  Cnbb  put  on  that  accounting  work 
were  competent,  so  far  as  you  know? 

Mr.  Guise.  Generally  speaking,  I  think  they  were  competent ;  yes,  sir. 

Colonel  Hull.  You  were  given  a  free  hand  to  go  into  any  question  of  irregu- 
larity or  impropriety  of  any  kind,  weren't  you? 

Mr.  Guise.  Up  to  the  limit  of  my  field  force. 

Colonel  Hull.  What  I  mean  is,  you  were  not  circumscribed  in  any  way 

Mr.  Guise.  I  was  directed  by  the  Philadelphia  district  chief  to  continue  on 
claims  primarily  rather  than  to  take  up  contracts  at  the  time  that  I  started 
to  work  on  the  contracts.  The  claims  were  considered  preeminent  at  that 
time. 

Colonel  Hull.  I  came  into  the  work  along  about  .Tune  1920.  Your  W(u-k  was 
under  full  headway  at  that  time,  wasn't  it? 

Mr.  Guise.  Yes.  sir. 

Colonel  Hull.  Do  you  remember  that  along  about  June  1920  tlie  War  Depart- 
ment was  a  little  circumscribed  for  funds? 

57  Mr.  Guise.  Yes,  sir. 

Colonel  Hull.  And  the  Philadelphia  board  aske<l  for  $300,000  to  con- 
tinue their  work? 

Mr.   Guise.  Yes,  sir. 

Colonel  Hull.  Do  you  remember  your  estimate  at  that  time  as  to  when  your 
work  of  investigating  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company's  reaudit  would  be 
completed  ? 

Mr.  Guise.  I  do  not  know. 

Colonel  Hull.  Suppose  I  told  you — which  is  my  recollection — you  said  it 
would  be  completed  by  December  31,  1920 — that  that  was  your  estimate  in 
June? 

Mr.  Guise.  I  did  expect  it  at  that  time.  I  had  not  gone  into  every  detail,  of 
course. 

Colonel  Hull.  You  had  been  on  the  reaudit,  however,  for  6  months  at  that 
time,  and  you  had  been  working  on  it  for  a  year. 

Mr.  Guise.  Not  myself. 

Colonel  Hull.  I  mean  on  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company. 

Mr.  Guise.  As  I  stated,  for  a  long  period  of  time  I  devoted  all  my  effurts  to 
trying  to  clear  up  claims.  We  had  $400,000,000  to  review  there  to  get  $30,000,- 
000  claims  completed.  We  had  to  go  into  contracts  back  in  1917  on  the  E.  I. 
du  Pont  de  Nemours  matters  and  had  to  go  into  many  other  things  preceding 
that  audit. 

Colonel  Hull.  Do  you  remember  a  long  report  which  you  made — I  think  it 
was  in  .July  1920 — on  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  matter,  in  which 
you  recited  all  the  irre.gularities  and  the  different  lines  that  the  work  should 
take?    That  was  in  July  1920,  wasn't  it? 

58  i\Ir.  GuTSE.  It  may  have  been. 

Colonel  Hull.  Have  you  a  copy  of  that,  Major  Booton? 

Major   BooTON.  Yes. 

Colonel  Hull  (handing  paper  to  witness).  You  made  this  report,  didn't  you, 
along  about  1920? 

air,   Guise.  Yes.   sir — that  was   May. 

Colonel  Hull.  It  was  May,  wasn't  it? 

Mr.    Guise.  Yes,    sir. 

Colonel  Hull.  You  had  done  considerable  work  on  the  du  Pont  Engineering 
Company  matter  by  May  then? 

Mr.   Guise.  Yes ;   that  is  correct. 

Colonel  Hull.  And  this  is  an  outline  of  your  views  at  that  time? 

Mr.   Guise.  Yes,   sir. 


3384  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Colonel  Hull.  So  in  June,  when  you  said  it  would  be  completed  in  December 
1920  you  were  pretty  familiar  with  tlie  general  aspects  of  the  case? 

Mr.  Guise.  Yes.  I  did  not  expect,  however,  to  be  cut  like  we  were  in  per- 
sonnel. We  were  cut  down  pretty  heavily  after  .Tune,  you  know.  We  had  to 
let  quite  a  number  of  people  go,  to  be  able  to  hold  enough  money  to  complete 
claims. 

Colonel  Hm.L.  The  Philadelphia  Ordnance  Board  at  that  time,  in  June,  when 
you  said  you  would  complete  it  in  December,  asked  for  $300,000? 

Mr.   Guise.  Yes. 

Colonel  Hull.  And  you  were  given  $300,000  in  June? 

Mr.  Guise.  A  large  percentage  of  that  was  used  for  claims  work  alone,  not 
for   this   contract, 
no  Colonel   Hull.  Well,   Philadelphia   was  also   recommending  this   same 

work,  wasn't  it? 

Mr.  Guise.  Well,  I  assume  so,  but  they  were  entirely 

Colonel  Huix.  Mr.  Jones  was  working  there 

Mr.  Guise.  I  know  the  allotment  for  contracts  was  cut  for  Philadelphia  at 
that  time. 

Colonel  Hull.  But  I  say,  Mr.  Jones  was  in  favor  of  this  i-eaudit? 

Mr.  Guise.  Decidedly  so. 

Colonel  Hull.  Then  you  remember  that  that  $300,000  was  rapidly  expended? 

Mr.  Guise.  We  were  aware  of  it  along  in  September. 

Colonel  Hull.  And  Philadelphia  asked  for  an  additional  allotment,  and  in 
September  you  made  an  estimate  as  to  when  the  work  would  be  completed? 

Mr.  C.uisE.  I  may  have  at  that  time.     I  don't  remember  the  exact  time. 

Colonel  Hull.  I 'think  the  records  will  show  that  in  September  you  said 
that  if  you  continued  the  work  the  way  it  was  going  tt  would  be  completed 
in  March,  if  Philadelphia  was  then  given  the  money  that  they  requested. 

Mr.  Guise.  I  expected  that  it  would  be  completed  In  March. 

Colonel  Hull.  And  you  stayed  on  the  work  until  when? 

ilr.  Guise.  I  stayed — I  was  discharged  Novembei^  30th,  and  I  stayed  in  a 
civilian  capacity  for  one  month,  clearing  up  various  matters  pertaining  to 
both  contracts  and  claims. 

Colonel  HLT.L.  And  all  the  evidence  of  any  irregularities,  all  suspen- 
CO         sions  and  everything,  was  of  record  when  you  left  Washington? 
Mr.  Guise.  Up  to  that  time;  yes. 

Colonel  Hull.  And  you  turned  the  work  over  to  whom? 

Mr.  Guise.  That  was  turned  over  to  Mr.  Peebles. 

Colonel  Hull.  Mr.  Peebles  has  been  an  employee  of  yours  prior  to  that  time;, 
had  he  not? 

Mr.   Guise.  Yes,   sir.  ^     •     ^    • 

Colonel  Hull.  You  left  after  Peebles  and  Youmans  had  been  trained  in- 
the  work,  did  you  not? 

Mr.  Guise.  I  did. 

Colonel  Hull.  And  the  work  was  turned  over  to  them,  was  it  not? 

Mr.   GuTSE.  Yes.  ,  ^,  ,  ., 

Colonel  Hull.  And  as  far  as  you  know,  they  continued  the  work  exactly  on- 
the  same  lines  that  you  had  planned  it  and  laid  it  out?  ^   ,  „  -..^ 

Mr  GuiSF  I  don't  know.  I  don't  know  anything  about  what  Youmans  did. 
I  <lon't  know  what  Peebles  did  after  I  left.  I  assume,  though,  that  the  general- 
method  of  procedure  was  about  the  same. 

Colonel  Hurx.  Now.  when  you  came  to  suspending  a  voucher— you  sa>  you 
had  about  $18,000,000  worth  of  vouchers  suspended.  I  presume  that  in  tne- 
urdinarv  work  you  would  at  times  suspend  a  voucher  awaiting  an  explana- 
tion, and  if  the  ex].lanation  was  sufficient  you  would  remove  the  suspension. 

A,Ti'     O tttr*r    *V^p^     Sit* 

Colonel  Hull.' So  that  a  suspension  meant  merely  that  this  voucher  was- 
questioned  until  some  further  action?  .  .v,  *  -^  „,«.,«-  ir^^n  «ii«! 

61  Mr   Guise.  Suspending  a  voucher  simply  meant  that  it  went  into  sus- 

pense.    A  disallowance  of  a  voucher  meant  that  it  was  considered  not 
applicable  to  the  contract  for  some  reason  or  other,  or  an  illegal  payment,  or 

something  of  that  kind.  ,      .     .    ,.  i.-         f  4-i,„  riio,-,»<=  nn-^rii'' 

Colonel  Hl-ll.  You  also  worked  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Claims  Boara. 

Coio?e?Hu^^\rPhiladelphia  and  Washington?     So  your  decisions  on  the- 
question  as  to  what  was  a   legal  payment  or  not   a   legal  payment   ^^as  not 
supposed  to  be  final,  was  it? 

Mr.  Guise.  No. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3385 

Colonel  HuxL.  Only  tentative? 

Mr.  Guise.  Only  a  tentative  proposition. 

Colonel  Htnx.  And  on  the  question  of  whether  it  vpas  a  legal  payment,  you 
would  naturally  expect  your  decisions  to  be  questioned  and  have  that  passed 
on  as  a  legal  matter? 

Mr.  Guise.  Oh,  yes.  I  simply  objected  to  what  was  to  me  a  false  certification, 
that  is  all. 

Colonel  Hull.  So  that  this  item  of  $18,000,000,  if  you  had  stayed  there,  might 
have  been  cleared  up,  or  might  have  been  increased? 

Mr.  Guise.  It  might  have  been  increased  or  reduced ;  that  is  right. 

Colonel  Hull.  You  spoke  a  while  ago  about  destruction  of  records. 

Mr.  Guise.  Yes,  sir. 

Colonel  Hull.  If  I  may  I  would  like  to  have  a  little  more  detailed  informa^ 
tion  on  tliat.  Colonel  Anderson. 

62  Mr.  Anderson.  Certainly ;  make  any  inquiry  you  wish. 

Colonel  Hull.  I  would  like  to  have  a  little  more  in  detail  what  you 
personally  know  of  the  destruction  of  records. 

Mr.  Guise.  The  point  as  far  as  destruction  of  records  is  concerned  is  this. 
In  making  the  examination  of  records  we  found  that  a  large  number  of  what 
I  call  primary  records  were  missing,  as  I  stated  before.  We  found  that  at 
the  time — now,  remember  this  is  an  evidential  statement,  and  not,  of  course, 
my  own  observation.  Affidavits  were  made  to  this  effect,  however,  that  at 
the  time  the  Du  Pont  Company  left  they  transferred  a  large  number  of  records 
to  Wilmington — selected ;  that  there  were  some  records  bundled  up  and — this 
is  hearsay,  based  on  affidavits  too — that  there  were  some  records  that  were 
taken  out  and  burned.     What  they  were  we  do  not  know.     I  do  know  this 

Colonel  Hull.  Do  you  know  anything  of  your  own  personal  knowledge? 

Mr.  Guise.  All  I  do  know  is  that  there  were  many  primary  records  that  we 
did  find,  particularly  on  the  operating  end,  that  were  partially  destroyed  by 
acid  and  illegible,  and  others  mixed  up  with  waste  paper,  and  other  things  of 
that  kind.  We  found,  in  fact — and  this  is  no  reflection  on  General  Horney, 
General  Williams,  I  will  say  that.  He  had  some  help  down  there  that  was  not 
any  too  good.  We  rescued  some  records  from  being  destroyed  by  the  Ordnance 
Office  employees,  after  the  place  was  taken  over. 

Colonel  HuT.L.  Do  you  mean  that  these  records,  formerly  in  the  possession 
of  the  Du  Fonts,  had  been  turned  over  to  the  Government? 

63  Mr.  Guise.  They  were  piled  in  sheds,  mixed  up  in  every  way.     We 
picked   up   some   down   in   the   operating   departments.     We   picked   up 

some,  as  I  stated,  under  buildings. 

Colonel  Hull.  But  I  mean,  that  was  after  the  buildings  and  the  documents  and 
everything  had  been  turned  over  to  the  Ordnance  Department? 

Mr.  GxnsE.  The  buildings  and  documents  and  everything  at  Old  Hickory 
had  been  tui'ned  over  to  the  Ordnance  Department. 

Colonel  Hull.  How  long  had  they  been  in  the  possession  of  the  Ordnance 
Department  at  the  time  you  noticed  that? 

Mr.  Guise.  Oh,  about  six  months.  I  had  the  statement  made  there  that 
they  had  not  done  anything  with  these  records,  however — from  an  Army 
officer,  the  information  that  those  records  had  not  been  moved  from  the  time 
they  took  it  over — that  is,  these  papers. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Wiiere  are  those  affidavits  of  which  you  spoke? 

Mr.  Guise.  Why,  I  assume  that  some  of  them  are — I  do  not  know  whether 
you  have  them  in  your  possession  or  not   [addressing  Mr.  McLane]  ? 

Mr.  McLane.  I  have  not. 

Mr.  Guise.  They  were  in  the  files.  I  had  affidavits  in  the  files,  a  dozen  of 
them  I  should  say,  that  we  left  behind,  under  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  and 
Old  Hickory  contract. 

Mr.  ANDBaisoN.  You  left  those  down  there? 

Mr.  GnsE.  The  files  were  left  in  your  possession ■ 

Colonel  Hull.  They  are  right  here. 

64  Mr.  GmsB.  You  have  the  files  right  here? 
Colonel  Hull.  Not  all  of  them. 

Mr.  GuisEi.  Those  affidavits  were  on  file ;  that  is  all  I  can  say.  I  did  not  take 
away — there  is  only  one  thing  that  I  kept  when  I  left,  and  that  was  a  copy  of 
my  final  report. 

Colonel  Hull.  Did  you  follow  up  that  question  of  the  destruction  of  records'? 

Mr.  Guise.  I  was  infonned  by  the  du  Pont  Company  that  they  did  not  take 
care  of  any  records  except  those  they  thought  necessary. 


3386  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Andekson.  Do  you  recall  who  made  that  statement  to  you  on  account  of 
the  du  Pont  Company? 

Mr.  Guise.  Why,  most  of  the  statements  of  that  kind  were  made  by  Mr.  Broad, 
the  comptroller  at  that  time;  that  is  all  I  can  say. 

General  Williams.  Would  anybody  keep  the  records  that  they  did  not  con- 
sider necessary,  Major?    I  don't  do  it. 

Mr.  Guise.  No  ;  but  these  were  not  du  Pont  engineering  records,  in  a  sense ; 
they  were  United  States  records.  They  had  been  instructed  in  the  early 
stages — that  is  in  the  records  of  a  conference  held  at  Wilmington,  that  they 
were  fully  conversant  with  the  type  of  records  that  were  required  by  the 
Ordnance  Department  or  the  War  Department  for  the  validation  of  payments. 

Colonel  Hull.  Major,  you  have  not  stated  anything  here  today,  as  I  recall, 
that  was  not  in  .your  report  of  May  20,  have  you,  in  the  main?  You  touched 
on  those  items? 

Mr.  Guise.  Why,  in  general.    Of  course,  we  had  a  considerable  amount 

65  more  information,  I  think — have  you  my  final  report  there? 

Major  BooTON.  Yes ;  we  have  several  copies. 

Mr.  Guise.  In  my  tinal  report  I  think  I  covered  tliat,  practically. 

Colonel  Hull.  Now,  take  up  the  question  of  what  you  call  a  fabricated 
report 

Mr.  Anderson.  Befoi'e  you  leave  that  subject,  let  me  ask  this.  Y"ou  said 
something  about  finding  records  under  buildings.  Were  these  important  records, 
original  records,  or  what? 

Mr.  Guise.  They  were  bills  of  lading  and  records  of  that  class  more  than 
an.vthing  else — shipping  records. 

Mr.  Anderson.  How  did  you  happen  to  find  them  under  those  floors? 

Mr.  Guise.  W^e  were  looking  for  records,  and  we  pulled  off  a  board  and  got 
down  under  and  got  them  out.    That  is  all  there  was  to  it. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Have  you  any  evidence  about  the  destruction  of  several  hun- 
dred records  b.v  Sergeant  Coffin? 

Mr.  Guise.  Only  the  statements  made.     I  have  no  direct  evidence. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  We  will  pass  that  now ;  we  have  another  witness  on  that. 

Colonel  Hltll.  Let  us  take  up  the  question  of  fabricating  vouchers,  which 
you  have  mentioned  several  times.  Y'ou  went  into  that  quite  thoroughly,  did 
you  not? 

Mr.  Guise.  I   spent  about  two  days  reviewing  it  before  I  made  any 

66  statement  that   they   v/ere  fabricated ;   yes,   sir — down   at   the  plant.     I 
went  through  the  files  yiretty  thoroughly.     I  will  not  say  I  examined  all 

of  the  files.     I  had  not  gone  there  for  the  purpose  of  going  into  detail  on  that. 

Colonel  Hull.  Was  there  a  false  statement  in  these  vouchers? 

Mr.  Gx'isE.  It  was  impossible  to  state,  sir.  The  only  way  you  can  determine 
anything  about  the  quantity  of  material  that  would  be  received,  as  against  the 
invoice,  would  be  by  a  definite  check  made  by  somebody,  indicating"  the  shortage 
or  O.  K.  As  far  as  I  was  concerned,  the  validation  of  the  receipt  of  material 
on  a  receiving  slip  or  the  original  invoice,  if  endorsed  on  the  back  by  a  repre- 
sentative of  the  Ordnance  Department,  that  would  carry  it. 

Colonel  Hull.  Did  you  make  any  statement  to  the  du  Fonts  that  they  were 
manufacturing  vouchers? 

Mr.  Guise.  It  Avas  discussed  with  Mr.  Coyne,  the  vice  president  in  charge  of— 
it  seemed  to  be  impossible  for  anybody  to  know  anything  about  it.  It  was  not 
absolutely  denied,  and  it  was  not  accepted  as  being  the  truth,  either  way. 

Colonel  Hull.  Did  you  give  any  instruction  about  taking  that  matter  to  the 
district  attorney? 

Mr.  Guise.  No,  sir ;  I  did  not  consider  we  were  to  appoint — in  fact,  I  would 
not  do  it ;  I  would  not  have  taken  it  to  anybody  except  through  the  War  Depart- 
ment, through  my  chief. 

Colonel  IltrLL.  Did  .vou  consider  taking  it  up,  with  the  idea  of  taking  it  to 
the  district  attorney — -that  is,  through  channels? 

Mr.  Gt-irb.  Throuu-h  channels?     That  particular  thing? 
G7  Col<;nel  Hull.  Yes. 

]\Ir.  GrisE.  Why.  I  tliink  I  would  hesitate  until  I  had  more  complete 
evidt  nee  all  the  w:iy  (hroiieh.  I  would  want  to  finish  up,  so  we  would  know  how 
much  in  bulk  there  was,  and  have  direct  evidence. 

Colonel  HuT>L.  So  you  had  not  given  that  any  real  cnnsideration  up  to  the 
time  .you  left  the  Government  employ? 

Ml'.  Guise.  You  mean  about  carrying  it  up  to  the  district  attorney? 

Colonel  HuT.L.  Yes. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3387 

Mr.  Gl'ise.  Oh,  no.  I  may  have  been  rather  rigid  in  my  ideas,  hut  I  should 
never  have  made  any  move  in  that  direction  myself  except  through  channels. 
I  shnuld  consider  it  my  duty  to  bring  it  to  the  attention — of  course,  these 
matters  were  brought  to  the  attention  of  the  Ordnance  Department.  If  you  will 
remember,  the  thing  that  I  wanted — now,  this  is  positive,  and  it  is  recommended 
in  my  May  report.  What  I  wanted  to  have  put  on  there  was  the  equivalent  of  a 
summary  court,  to  examine  into  the  evidence  for  the  Ordnance  Department,  or 
for  the  War  Department,  either  way  you  please,  and  see  whether  the  conditions 
were  such  that  they  should  be  taken  up  and  whether  there  was  any  definite 
fraud  present  that  would  invalidate  the  contract. 

Colonel  Hull.  When  you  took  the  checking  of  the  cars,  where  you  had  the 
bills  of  lading  and  invoices,  and  no  receipt  on  file,  you  say  you  went  back  to  the 
freight  weights? 

Mr.  Guise.  AVe  made  up  a  complete  tabulation  of  a  year's  deliveries  into  the 
Old  Hickory  yard. 

68  Colonel  Hull.  On  some  of  those  items  in  carload  lots  you  compared  the 
invoices  with  the  car  weights,  did  you  not? 

Mr.  Guise.  Yes.     In  some  cases  there  were  discrepancies. 

Colonel  Hull.  How  did  they  run  on  the  whole? 

Mr.  Guise.  Oh,  theie  were  cases  where  it  was  impossible— well,  you  must 
remember  that  the  block  had  not  been  completed  when  I  left. 

Colonel  Hull.  I  mean  outside  of  the  block  were  you  not  comparing  certain 
items? 

Mr.  Guise.  We  found  a  great  many  that  were  practically  correct,  some  cor- 
rect, and  some  incorrect.  Some  were  under  and  some  were  over.  I  should 
say  we  did  find  up  to  the  time  that  I  left  that  they  would  run  a  little  under 
rather  than  over — up  to  that  time.  But  we  were  tabulating — that  was  not  taken 
up  until  late  in  1920,  because  we  had  gotten  to  a  point  where  certainly  we  could 
not  get  any  evidence  in  any  other  way. 

The  original  audit  was  made  purely  on  construction.  All  of  our  investigation 
was  on  construction.  The  operation  was  not  started.  In  fact,  late  in  1920  we 
had  about  made  up  our  minds  that  it  would  be  rather  diflScult  to  do  anything 
except  get  rather  close  to  an  audit ;  that  we  could  not  make  a  complete  audit  on 
that. 

Colonel  Hull.  I  will  ask  you  this  question,  to  clear  up  the  record,  because 
from  the  questions  there  seems  to  be  some  misunderstanding :  When  the  property 
came  in  the  du  Fonts  were  supposed  to  have  a  check  on  the  property  coining  in, 
were  they  not? 

Mr.  GuiSB.  Yes. 

69  Colonel  Hull.  That  was  their  check? 
Mr.  Guise.  Yes. 

Colonel  HuTx.  And  they  were  to  check  until  they  were  satisfied  that  the  prop- 
erty was  received — that  is,  theoretically?  . 

Mr.  Guise.  Yes. 

Colonel  Hull.  And  then  the  Ordnance  Department  had  a  limited  force  of 
checkers? 

Mr.  Guise.  Yes. 

Colonel  Hull.  And  they  made  a  10-percent  check  of  the  property? 

Mr.  Guise.  That  is  it. 

Colonel  Hull.  And  then  the  du  Fonts  had  an  accounting  system,  and  they 
were  supposed  to  make  a  complete  accounting,  and  during  1917  and  1918  the 
Government  made  a  10-percent  spot  check  of  that,  too?     Wasn't  that  true? 

Mr.  Gltisb.  Finance  never  makes  a  10-percent  spot  check. 

Colonel  Hull.  But  was  not  that  what  the  Government  was  doing  through 
1920? 

Mr.  Guise.  You  must  remember  that  the  I'eimbursement  of  expense  for  labor 
and  materials  paid  by  Finance — that  an  officer's  signature  must  certify  that  the 
account  is  correct.  The  reimbursement,  as  far  as  Finance  was  concerned,  was 
made  out  on  a  public  voucher,  stating  it  was  correct ;  and  so  far  as  the  check-up 
back  of  that  was  concerned,  I  do  not  think  it  was  even  10  percent. 

Colonel  Hull.  This  is  also  true,  is  it  not,  that  the  vouchering  of  the 
70        Government  got  away  behind  the  exi^enditures  of  the  du  Pont  people? 

Mr.  Guise.  Oh,  I  had  a  reviewal  of  that.  I  made  a  definite  reviewal 
of  how  far  back  they  were,  and  I  will  say  definitely  that  there  was  no  time 
that  they  did  not  have  reasonable  funds  in  bank.  My  record  of  that  is  in 
the  files.  I  had  a  yearly  statement  from  the  du  Pont  Company  as  to  the 
amount  of  funds  that  it  would  require. 
83876— 35— PT  14 15 


3388  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Colonel  Hull.  I  mean,  the  advances  of  the  du  Fonts  were  greater  than  they 
expected,  because  they  had  expected  to  use  that  $18,000,000  as  a  revolving 
fund,  had  they  not? 

Mr.  Guise.  They  had  more  than  $18,000,000;  I  think  they  had  $37,000,000 
on  construction. 

Colonel  Hull.  I  mean,  $18,000,000  was  the  original  amount? 

Mr.  Guise.  They  had  another  advance  later  on  of  $18,750,000. 

Colonel  Hull.  And  had  another  advance,  because  the  accounting  got  behind? 

Mr.  Guise.  There  was  nothing  in  the  records  that  showed  it  was  far  enough 
behind  for  that.  They  were  behind  in  getting  invoices  through.  According 
to  copies  of  their  own  letters,  they  directed  that  they  be  shoved  through  faster. 
That  is  all  I  know  about  it. 

Colonel  Hull.  That  was  perfectly  proper,  for  the  head  office  to  send  an 
order 

Mr.  Guise.  Oh,  certainly ;  but  the  point  was  this.     I  think  they  strained  it 

pretty  well  down  at  Nashville  about  that  time.     I  think  that  is  where  the 

question  of  clerical  check  came  up.     You  must  remember  this,  that  in 

71  any  investigation  of  where  work  has  been  completed,  the  affidavits  and 
statements  made   by  people  on   the  ground,   supported   fairly   close  by 

ocular  evidence,  has  to  be  accepted  to  some  extent ;  and  in  this  case  the  informa- 
tion given  was  given  by  people  who  were  working  for  the  du  Pouts  at  the 
time.  It  was  volunteered,  I  will  say  that,  when  we  were  trying  to  find  out 
about  why  these  records  were  there.  I  think  they  began  to  make  up  these 
so-called  fabricated  records  when  they  got  behind  in  their  invoices.  They 
could  not  get  the  checking  through  fust  enough.  You  must  remember  this, 
that  so  far  as  I  was  concerned,  in  my  stand  on  the  proposition,  I  had  no 
recourse  except  to  follow — I  was  not  settling  a  claim  and  I  had  no  compromise ; 
it  was  an  audit  to  be  made.  Certain  definite  things  had  to  be  done  and  certain 
definite  information  had  to  be  given.  The  support  had  to  be  there  to  validate 
a  certification  to  the  Finance  Division,  and  it  was  not  there.  Now,  if  there 
was  any  doubt  in  my  mind  as  to  the  validity  of  evidence  presented,  I  sus- 
pended the  account  as  far  as  that  was  concerned. 

Colonel  Hull.  So  if  the  best  evidence  was  not  attached  to  the  papers,  the 
voucher  was  suspended? 

Mr.  Guise.  And  in  a  great  many  cases  there  was  not  any  real  evidence 
attached. 

Colonel  Hull.  But  you  would  suspend  the  voucher? 

Ml".  Guise.  I  would  suspend  the  voucher.     You  must  remember  this.     I  did 

not  have  any  discretion.     I  was  not  transcendent  as  far  as  my  powers  were 

concerned.     There  were  people  beyond  me  that  might  possibly  do  something  in 

the  line  of  eliminating  my  difficulties,  but  what  I  was  there  for  was 

72  to   guard   against   any   possibility   of  payments   being  made  that   were 
contrary  to  the  evidence  and  not  according  to  either  the  contract  or  the 

law. 

Colonel  Hull.  Let  us  get  that  perfectly  clear.  Did  you  ever  hear  of  a  big 
freight  jam  down  there — did  you  tell  the  general — something  that  happened 
at  Nashville  like  happened  down  at  Tampa  in  the  Spanish-American  War, 
when  they  carried  more  freight  cars  in  there  than  they  could  unload? 

Mr.  Guise.  Why,  I  heard  they  kept  a  number  of  cars  ahead.  I  don't  think 
they  ever  told  me  that  they  had  over  600  at  one  time  ahead  of  the  unloaders. 

Colonel  Hull.  Did  you  ever  hear  of  them  spending  a  couple  of  weeks  down 
there — checkers  and  everybody- — alongside  of  the  tracks,  trying  to  break  tliat 
freight  jam? 

Mr.  Guise.  That  was  in  the  early  stages ;  it  was  not  after  the  yards  were 
finished.     No ;  I  don't  know  as  I  did — anything  quite  as  bad  as  that. 

Colonel  Hull.  Did  you  ever  hear  of  anything  like  that? 

Mr.  Guise.  I  have  heard  of  some  interfei'once  with  deliveries  there — that 
they  had  to  unload  in  some  cases  and  get  the  stuff  right  over  into  the  field 
where  they  needed  it  right  away,  without  a  chance  to  check  it. 

Colonel  Hull.  And  under  those  circumstances,  under  your  authority  as  you 
understood  it,  you  would  have  suspended  every  one  of  those  vouchers? 

Mr.  Guise.  Yes. 

Colonel  Hull.  Would  there  be  anything  improper  in  the  Government  getting 
a  reimbursement  contract  and  passing  the  du  Pont  expenditures  on  that 
property  ? 

73  Mr.  Guise.  Under  a  contract  auilit  I  do  not  think  there  is  anything 
to  do  except  to  complete  the  audit  in  accordance  with  the  regulations. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3389 

But  the  fill  Fonts  had  the  final — on  the  final  clean-up,  we  will  say,  there  was 
$10,000,000  in  suspense.  The  contract  had  been  audited,  and  there  was 
$10,000,000  suspended.  Then  it  was  a  question  for  them  to  put  their  evidence 
before  a  board — the  audit  is  complete,  and  we  have  not  found  evidence 
sufficient  to  pay  that  money. 

Colonel  Hull.  I  think,  Major,  you  would  save  time  if  you  would  hear  the 
question  read. 

Mr.  Guise.  What  was  the  question? 

(Tlie  reix>rter  repeated  the  last  preceding  question  as  above  recorded.) 

Colonel  Hull.  That  is,  the  property  that  was  unloaded  in  a  jam  and  taken 
up  and  used. 

Mr.  Guise.  I  know ;  but  you  cannot  carry  that  through  the  entire  period 
Tills  one  particular  thing? 

Colonel  Hull.  Yes. 

Mr.  Guise.  Remember,  I  am  taking  it  as  an  officer  of  the  United  States,  you 
understand.  The  only  thing  I  can  say  is  that  it  would  not  be  proper  to  pass 
that  expenditure. 

General  Williams.  Suppose  you  view  it  as  a  matter  of  common  sense 
instead.     What  would  you  say  then? 

Mr.  Guise.  That  is  entirely  different.     That  is  claims ;  that  is  not  contracts. 

You  understand  my  point?     You  must  remember,  there  you  have  got  the  two 

cases,   claims  and   contracts.     I   have  compromised,   myself,   on  claims,   but  I 

am  darned  if  I  would  on  contracts.     You  leave  a  loophole  there  and  you 

74  don't   know   how   far   you   will    go.     I    will   tell    you    what    I    told    Mr. 
Coyne,  the  vice  president  that  I  dealt  with.     I  said  they  did  a  wonderful 

piece  of  engineering  down  there,  and  a  damned  poor  piece  of  financing. 

Mr.  Carndutf.  Major  Guise,  as  an  officer  of  the  United  States,  did  you  have 
any  discretion  to  pass  claims? 

Mr.  Guise.  I  was  not  a  claims  auditor.  I  had  no  authority  to  do  anything 
except  what  the  law  and  the  regulations  called  on  me  to  do  there.  You  must 
remembei- — there  may  have  been  some  officer  that  would  have,  but  suppose 
there  were.  I  may  have  been  a  little  bit  stiff  necked  in  that  direction.  I  did 
not  liave  any  o.  s.  d.  proposition  to  wipe  out  that  end  of  it. 

Colonel  Hull.  On  the  question  of  the  cost  of  making  powder  down  there, 
you  have  it  80  cents  a  pound,  dividing  the  cost  by  the  amount  produced.  In 
answer  to  General  Williams'  question  you  stated  that,  of  course,  that  price 
would  have  to  be  reduced  by  the  amount  of  goods  on  hand — the  inventory. 
I  would  like  to  state  for  the  record  that  I  understand  there  was  about  70,000 
tons  of  nitrate  of  soda  left  there.     Is  that  correct? 

Mr.  Guise.  That  is  rather  large  I  think,  for  Nashville. 

Colonel  Hull.  What  was  the  approximate  cost  of  the  nitrate  of  soda? 

Mr.  Guise.  At  that  time? 

Colonel  Hull.  Yes. 

Mr.  Guise.  A  little  over  four  cents,  I  think — four  and  a  quarter  wasn't  it? 
General  Williams.  About  $90  to  $100  a  ton. 

75  Colonel  Hull.  About  $90  to  $100  a  ton.     Have  you  any  idea  how  many 
hundred  tons  of  cotton  linters  were  on  hand? 

Mr.  Guise.  That  was  not  so  large.  I  don't  remember.  The  values  there 
should  have  been  reduced. 

Colonel  Hull.  That  was  cost  though,  wasn't  it? 

Mr.  Guise.  Yes.  There  was  a  pool  fund  that  should  have  come  out  of  that 
to  a  material  amount. 

Colonel  Hull.  Would  you  say  there  was  anything  like  23  million  pounds 
of  cotton  linters  tliere? 

Mr.  Guise.  There  might  have  been  that,  approximately,  I  should  say. 

Colonel  Hull.  Do  you  know  how  many  gallons  of  alcohol? 

Mr.  Guise.  No ;  only  what  I  found  there,  at  the  time  I  visited  the  plant. 

Colonel  Hull.  Suppose  there  was  190,000  gallons  of  alcohol,  several  hundred 
tons  of  sulphur,  and  a  great  amount  of  platinum 

Mr.  Guise.  But  the  platinum — those  platinum  construction  costs — platinum 
masts.  That  was  charged  over,  my  understanding  is,  into  construction  cost  at 
the  time  they  put  it  into  the  field. 

Colonel  Hull.  Sulphuric  acid,  nitric  acid,  and  things  of  that  kind? 

Mr.  GtnsE.  A  considerable  amount,  I  think,  as  compared  to  Hopewell. 

Colonel  Hull.  Would  not  those  costs  reduce  your  80  cents  approximately 
one-half? 


3390  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Guise.  Oh,  no ;  hardly  half. 
Colonel  Hull.  All  right ;  that  is  all. 
Mr.  Carnduff.  Is  that  all? 

76  Mr.  McLane.  Mr.  Guise,  you  spoke  of  checkers.     I  will  a>^k  you  if  the 
company  did  not  luiiintain  a  number  of  checkers  who  did  nothing  but 

make  up  false  or  fabricated  checking  cards? 

Mr.  Guise.  All  I  know  is  the  statements  made  to  me. 

Mr.  MoLane.  All  you  know  is  the  statements  made  to  you  by  the  indi- 
viduals? 

Mr.  Guise.  Yes. 

Mr.  McLane.  Were  those  statements  made  by  the  individuals  told  to  those 
in  charge  of  the  du  Pont  works? 

Mr.  Guise.  Yes. 

Mr.  McLane.  That  was  communicated  to  them  while  you  were  in  charge 
there,  that  the  checkers'  cards  were  being  made  up  in  that  way? 

Mr.  Guise.  No  ;  not  being  made  up.  I  was  not  there  at  the  time  the  opera- 
tions were  on.  That  was  communicated  to  me  long  after  the  operations  had 
ceased  at  the  Old  Hickory  plant,  and  all  I  know  about  checkers'  cards  is  this, 
that  there  are  certain  types  of  cards  in  the  files  that  indicate  that  they  were 
written  by  one  person — that  is.  that  a  great  many  of  them  were — and  there 
Avere  about  three  persons,  all  told,  that  seemed  to  he  writing  that  type  of  cards, 
and  that  those  men,  in  tracing  through  the  employment  end  of  it,  were  clerks 
and  not  chCL-kers.  That  is  all  I  know  aliout  it.  And  the  statement  was  made 
to  me  by  men  who  were  there  that  they  had  been  instructed  to  make  those. 

Mr.  McLane.  Now,  coming  back  to  the  cars  and  the  vouchers  on  which  car- 
load shipments  were  received,  I  will  ask  you  if  you  found  on  the  same 

77  date  the  same  number  of  a  car  on  two  different  vouchers,  as  showing  the 
arrival  at  the  plant  of  two  cars  with  the  same  number  at  any  time? 

Mr.  Guise.  You  are  getting  down  to  details  now.  You  must  remeu-iber  there 
were  thousands  and  thousands  of  cars.  There  were  one  or  two  instances  that 
I  can  remember.     I  can't  go  beyond  that. 

Mr.  McLane.  In  each  instance  were  those  duplicate  cars  received  from  other 
companies  belonging  to  the  du  Pont  people? 

Air.  Guise.  I  couldn't  absolutely  make  that  statement,  because  it  has  passed 
from  my  memory  now.  The  principal  thing  that  I  objected  to  was  the  transfer 
of  materials  from  the  du  Pont  de  Nemours  plant  to  the  Old  Hickory  plant,  and 
the  cost  of  that  going  against  the  Old  Hickory  contract. 

General  Williams.  Major,  what  percentage  of  error  would  you  consider 
permissible? 

Islv.  Guise.  Permissible  do  you  mean  in  the  receipt  of  materials? 

General  Williams.  Yes ;  in  these  records.  Would  you  expect  that  every- 
thing would  absolutely  check  up? 

Mr.  Guise.  No. 

General  Williams.  Well,  now,  you  are  a  man  of  experience  in  manufacture, 
and  all  that  kind  of  thing? 

Mr.  Guise.  Yes. 

General  Williams.  You  would  have  some  idea. 

Mr.  Guise.  We  ordinarily  allow  5  percent  variation,  maximum. 

Mr.  McLanb.  You  spoke  of  finding  discrepancies  in  freight  rates. 

78  Mr.  Guise.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  McLane.  I  will  ask  you  what  was  the  amount  of  recovery  at  the 
time  you  were  ordered  to  cease  tracing  freight  rates? 

Mr.  Guise.  The  actual  amount  that  had  been  brought  to  my  attention  by 
dii-ect  audit 

Mr.  MoLane   (interposing).  Yes. 

Mi:  Guise  (continuing).  Not  by  reviewing  of  rates,  but  by  direct  audits, 
was  something  over  sixty  or  eighty  thousand  dollars. 

General  Williams.  Major,  may  I  ask  you :  Were  you  ordered  to  cease  tracing 
freight  rates? 

Mr.  Guise.  No,  sir ;    I  was  not. 

General  Williams.  Mr.  McLane,  I  believe,  put  his  question  that  way. 

Mr.  McLane.  Yes ;  I  did.     I  understood  that  that  was  what  he  stated. 

Mr.  Guise.  I  will  say  that  we  were  not  ordered  to  cease  figuring  freight 
rates.     I  was  not. 

Mr.  McLane.  I  will  withdraw  that  question  then. 

Mr.  Guise.  No;  there  was  a  question  of  method,  but  there  was  never  any 
direct  order  given  to  cease  auditing.    The  statement  was  made  to  me,  however, 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3391 

that  it  would  have  to  be  audited  elsewhere  than  there;  it  would  have  to  be 
audited  by  a  transportation  division  somewhere  that  was  fully  conversant 
with  freight  rates.  But  we  didn't  audit  freight  rates.  We  only  checked 
discrepancies  in  freight  rates  indicating  that  there  was  a  probability  that  an 

audit  should  be  made. 
79  Mr.   Caknbutf.  Has  the  Board  finished  with   the  witness? 

Mr.  Anderson.  Are  you  through,  Mr.  McLane? 

3Ir.  McLane.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Major,  have  you  told  the  conniiittee  all  that  yovi  know  about 
this  situation  down  tliere?  Was  there  any  further  statement  that  you  could 
make  that  would  help  us  in  arriving  at  the  actual  facts  of  this  situation  in  a 
survey? 

Mr.  Guise.  W^hy,  of  course,  Colonel,  you  must  remember  this :  I  could  en- 
large on  any  amount  of  things.  The  point  is  that  tliere  are  peciple  who  can 
give  direct  evidence  which  they  reported  to  me,  where  I  would  have  to  give 
the  same  tiling  in  another  way. 

The  question  of  discrepancies  I  think  I  have  gone  into  pretty  thoroughly' 
from  my  viewpoint.  I  have  never  charged  that  the  officers  of  tiie  du  Pont 
Engineering  Company  definitely  themselves  committed  any  fi'audulent  acts  in 
any  way.  I  will  say  this  plainly,  that  I  think  some  of  their  employees  came 
very  close  to  it.  It  may  have  been  partially  on  account  of  their  desiring  to 
make  a  good  showing.  It  may  have  been  possibly  in  some  cases  where  there 
\\;!s  iK'r.sonal  gain  from  it.  But  if  I  would  go  into  it,  and  enlarging  on  tliat — 
wliy.  there  are  a  great  many  more  witnesses  to  come,  and  your  direct  evidence, 
as  far  as  that  is  concerned,  can  come  from  other  witnesses  probably  bettei' 
than  from  me. 

Mr.  Anderson.  What  I  mean  is  this,  that  we  are  trying  to  make  this  survey 

a  final  and  complete  investigation  of  the  situation,  to  the  end  that  we  may 

either  take  such  action  as  necessary  to  defend  the  Government,  to  protect 

SO         the  interests  of  the  Government,  or  close  the  matter  with  the  evidence 

that  the  Government  interests  have  been  protected. 

Mr.  Guise.  I  see. 

Mr.  Anderson.  And  we  would  therefore  like  you  to  say  anything  now  that 
you  wish  to  say,  for  this  is  the  last  chance  that  you  are  going  to  get,  unless 
we  take  the  alternative  view  that  further  action  is  necessary. 

Mr.  Gt^SE.  I  will  say  this,  that  the  irregularities  present  were  sufficient  for 
me  to  believe  that  profits  were  made  over  and  above  the  amounts  stated  in 
tliH  contract. 

Mr.  Anderson.  By  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company? 

Mr.  Guise.  By  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Did  you  have  any  reason  to  believe  that  the  du  Pont  Engineer- 
ing Company  made  a  profit  out  of  their  subsidiaries  and  purchases? 

Mr.  Guise.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  If  so,  could  you  indicate  the  source  of  your  information  or 
belief  so  that  we  could  follow  it? 

Mr.  Guise.  In  the  reviewal  on  paint  alone — now  I  cannot  give  this  man's 
name,  that  is  the  worst  of  it — one  of  these  well-known  men  in  Nashville.  He  is 
an  employee  in  the  bank  there  now,  but  I  only  interviewed  him  in  passing 
through  Nashville  on  my  way  to  the  train.  In  this  particular  case  they  were 
directed  positively  to  buy  Harrkson  paints  no.  1. 

General  Williams.  I  didn't  understand  that. 

Mr.  Guise.  They  were  directed  positively  to  buy  the  Harrison  paints.     That 
is   the   du  Pont  subsidiary.     This   man,   being  a   resident   in   Nashville, 
81         possilily  would  know  him  better  than  I  would  [referring  to  Mr.  McLane]. 
Mr.  McLane.  Was  it  Alexander? 

Mr.  Guise.  That  sounds  like  the  name.  I  made  a  note  of  it  at  the  time. 
I  made  a  memorandum. 

Mr.  McLane.  What  bank,  do  you  remember? 

Mr.  Guise.  It  is  on  the  corner. 

Mr.  McLane.  The  bank  in  Nashville  on  Fourth  and  First — the  Old  Hermitage? 

Mr.  GuisK.  I  think  it  is  Fourth  and  First.  I  wouldn't  swear  to  it.  He  is 
an  old  employee  of  Mason  &  Hangar  Company,  that  is  all  I  can  say,  and  he 
stated  that  they  are  directed  to  use  Harrison  paints. 

General  Williams.  Mason  &  Hanger  were  subcontractors,  were  they? 

Mr.  Guise.  Mason  &  Hanger  were  subcontractors. 

General  Williams.  Who  gave  the  directions? 


3392  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Guise.  Tlmt  came  from  the — so  this  man  infdrmed  me — \\ell,  it  was 
published  directions,  I  liuow  it  was  shown  to  him,  from  the  supervising  en- 
gineer of  the  du  Pont  Company. 

Mr.  Carndupt.  Can  you  give  me  a  description  of  liim? 

Mr.  Guise.  A  man  of  medium  heiglit,  pretty  well  along  in  years. 

Mr.   Carnduff.  May   I  l)iing  in  Mr.  Towler?     He  will  not  be  a  witness. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Mr.  Towler  is  representing  the  Department  of  Justice. 

Mr.  Carxduff.  Yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  assume,  of  course,  it  will  be  all  right  to  bring  him  in.     He 
is  head  of  the  Department  of  Investigation? 
82  General  Williams.  Yes. 

Mr.  Guise.  There  were  so  many  miscellaneous  liearsay  items  that 
came  up  there.  The  Department  of  JvLstice  has  had  records  that  I  did  not 
have,  you  understand,  and  questions  were  discussed  with  the  Department  of 
Justice  employees  to  ascertain  whether  they  knew  about  such  things,  and 
where  I  could  get  in  touch  with  certain  men.  There  were  not  any  complaints 
made,  or  anytliing  of  that  kind,  but  they  were  asked  for  information,  because 
tliey  had  been  in  touch  with  some  of  these  men,  and  especially  in  the  transfer  of 
materials.  They  were  irregular,  tlie  du  Fonts  were,  in  their  transfers.  Tliey 
transferred  machinery,  for  instance,  from  Old  Hickory  to  Kacine ;  from  one 
company  account  to  another,  we  will  put  it  that  way,  witliout  any  check-up. 
and  put  tlirough  a  memorandum  voucher,  and  we  found  the  same  things,  the 
identical  things  on  both. 

General  Williams.  These  were  botli  Government  plants? 

Mr.  Guise.  They  were  both  to  be  Government  plants ;  yes,  sir.  They  did 
transfer  things  of  that  kind,  and  they  did  transfer  materials,  to  my  knowledge — 
in  fact,  their  own  memoranda  show  that — they  did  transfer  materials  from 
the  Hopewell  plant  to  the  Old  Hickoi-y  plant,  and  they  did  divert  materials 
that  had  been  billed  to  the  Hoi>ew^ell  plant  to  the  Old  Hickory.  That  is  as  far 
as  I  know  in  that  direction. 

General  Williams.  Was  there  any  reason  why  that  should  not  have  been 
done? 

Mr.  Guise.  Well,  there  comes  a  question  of  dormant  contracts,  General. 
In  one  case  it  would  have  been  a  saving  to  the  Government,  and  in  the 
S3  other  case  it  was  a  cost.  When  a  contract  becomes  dormant  you  have  got 
two  things  there  in  question.  Here  is  one  where  they  will  load  up;  they 
had  more  coming  in  than  we  needed ;  the  contract  was  cancelled,  and  tliey 
transferred  the  stuff  there.  In  the  other  case  it  became  Government  property 
as  soon  as  the  transfer  was  made  there.  So  there  is  your  question  of  dormant 
contracts ;  there  is  where  the  question  or  dormant  contracts  comes  in.  Whether 
tliey  should  be  able  to  increase  the  cost  to  the  United  States  after  a  contract 
becomes  dormant. 

Mr.  McLane.  Did  you  find  any  irregularities  in  the  grades  of  lumber,  and 
the  number  of  feet  received  per  car? 

Mr.  Guise.  The  only  exliibit  we  had  on  that  was  where  we  had  checking 
reports  showing  shortages.  The  question  of  grades  we  did  not  enter  into  very 
far  up  to  that  time.     We  had  statements  made  that  there  were  irregularities. 

Mr.  MoLane.  You  had  statements  made  that  there  were  irregularities? 

Mr.  Guise.  That  is  a  question  that  could  only  be  determined  by  me  or  by 
any  representative  of  mine  by  ocular  representations.  There  were  statements, 
however,  that  there  were  irregularities  in  that  line.  That  is  all  I  can  say. 
I  don't  know  who  they  got  their  lumber  from. 

The  doubtful  items,  as  far  as  gain  was  concerned,  to  the  du  Pont  organiza- 
tion, rests  more  with  component  materials  than  any  other  thing. 

General  Williams.  What  do  you  mean  by  "component  materials"?  Those 
entering  into  the  manufacture  of  powder? 

Mr.    Guise.  Those    entering    into    the   manufacture    of    smokeless   powder ; 
yes,  sir. 
84  General  Williams.  The  raw  materials? 

Mr.  Gi^isB.  The  raw  materials ;  yes,  sir. 

General  Williams.  All  right. 

Mr.  Guise.  The  question  of  how  far  they  controlled — I  am  speaking  now  of 
the  du  Pont  grouii — how  far  they  controlled  the  purchase  of  linters  outside 
of  the  pool,  and  how  far  they  controlled  the  purchase — that  is  purchasing  in 
advance,  you  understand ;  owning  a  large  percentage,  if  not  all  of  the  materials 
before  they  were  billed  in  to  the  Government,  and  purchasing  at  a  lower 
price,  and  other  things  of  that  kind,  were  the  most  probably  suspicious  points 
in  view  there. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3393 

And  tlien  this  question  that  arose,  as  I  stated,  on  shavings  alone  ^Yas  suffi- 
cient, of  course,  to  cast  doubt  on  any  other  materials  for  which  we  h;ul  vouchers 
until  tliey  were  carefully  reviewed.  When  you  consider  that  they  covered 
almost  all  of  the  shavings  delivered,  that  there  was  a  difference  of  a  cent  a 
pound,  better  than  a  cent  a  pound  mainly,  it  would  cast  doubt  on  their  prices 
until  they  had  been  carefully  reviewed  and  followed  back  to  the  point  of  origin. 

Mr.  McLane.  Was  your  attention  called  to  an  overcharge  in  Chevrolet  cars? 

Mr.  Guise.  They  were  above  Government  prices ;  yes,  sir. 

Mr.  McLane.  Who  owned  the  company  that  the  cars  were  purchased  from? 

Mr.  Guise.  Why,  it  is  the  General  Motors,  Durant  proposition,  a  du  Pont 
organization,  I  believe. 

General  Williams.  When  did  the  du  Fonts  buy  into  the  General  Motors? 

85  Mr.  Guise.  I  don't  know.     They  had  a  lot  in  there  for  a  long  time. 
Mr.  Catjnduff.  In  1915. 

General  Williams.  Their  big  interest  they  bought  in  1915. 

Mr.  Caknduff.  The  du  Pont  interests  entered  into  the  General  Motors  in 
1915. 

Mr.  Guise.  That  was  a  hard  question.  We  had  a  hard  crack  at  it  at  Tully- 
town,  as  well  as  at  Nashville,  the  question  of  Government  price  against  other 
prices.     I  don't  remember  the  total  amount  there  so  far  as  that  is  concerned. 

Colonel  Hull.  Cars  or  trucks,  Major? 

Mr.  Guise.  Cars.  Sixty-five  percent  of  the  cars,  practically,  that  they  had 
at  the  Old  Hickory  plant  were  Chevrolets.  And  when  General  Horney  took  that 
over  65  percent  of  the  cars  at  the  Old  Hickory  plant  were  in  scrap,  and  they 
were  all  Chevrolets.  That  is  the  principal  thing  I  remember  about  the  Chev- 
rolet down  there ;  all  the  Chevrolets  were  in  scrap  when  General  Horney  took 
it  over,  and  about  65  percent  of  tlie  cars  were  Chevrolets.  I  wouldn't  say  65 
percent  of  the  value,  because  they  had  Stutz  cars  down  there  as  well  as  Fords. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Have  you  any  other  point  that  you  feel  you  have  not  covered, 
th;!t  can  give  us  any  suggestions.  Major  Guise? 

Mr.  Guise.  I  can  only  give  it  to  you  in  a  general  way.     I  tliink  you  can  get 

more  information  in  detail  on  the  cost-accounting  proposition — in  fact,  you  can 

get  more  information  in  a  great  many  things,  except  in  general  in  my 

86  own  section,  from  Mr.  Peebles  than  you  did  from  me  and  Mr.  Youmans 
will  give  you  all  you  want  to  know  on  the  cost-accounting  end,  probably. 

He  was  on  the  job  during  the  entire  active  period  of  the  accounting,  and  he 
had  direct  charge  of  all  cost-accounting  matters.  And  Mr.  Cobb  could  give 
you  information  on  that  matter. 

Mr.  Anderson.  You  have  been  kind  enough  to  come  here,  Major,  and  now 
what  I  want  to  know  is  this :  Y'ou  fes'l  that  you  have  given  us  all  the  informa- 
tion available,  and  now  you  feel  that  you  have  exhausted  the  information  that 
jou  feel  you  can  give  for  the  benefit  of  the  Board? 

Mr.  Guise.  I  don't  think  that  I  could  give  you  any  more  definite  information. 
You  understand  primarily  the  reason  why  tlie  suspension  was  made.  There 
wasn't  evidence  back  of  the  vouchers  that  was  competent  evidence ;  the  evi- 
dence was  secured  back  of  the  vouchers  presented ;  that  was  all. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  am  very  much  obliged  to  you.  Major.  We  appreciate  your 
courtesy  in  coming  here  and  helping  us  out. 

General  Williams.  Thank  you.  Major. 

(Witness  excused.) 

Mr.  Carnditff.  I  would  like  to  introduce  the  Board  to  Mr.  Youmans. 

87  STATEMENT  OF  G.  E.  YOUMANS,  SWARTHMORE,  PENNSYLVANIA 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Your  name  is  G.  E.  Youmans?  You  reside  at  Swarthmore, 
Pennsylvania,  and  you  are  at  present  Supervisor  of  Accountants  of  the  Internal 
Revenue  Department  of  the  Treasury? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Supervisor  of  Collector's  Office. 

Mr.  ('arndufi\  AVill  you  please  state  to  tlie  Board  your  former  connection 
with  tlie  dn  Pont  engineering  transaction,  and  anything  to  your  knowledge  that 
you  feel  the  Government  should  know  about  that?  Just  tell  your  story  in- 
formally. 

Mr.  Youmans.  My  first  connection  with  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company 
contracts  was  in  December  1919. 

Mr.  Anderson.  You  refer  now  to  the  Old  Hickory,  do  you? 

Mr.  Youmans.  I  was  never  there — yes ;  I  was  down  there  once,  I  believe ; 
yes;  but  not  during  the  active  operation  of  the  contract,  though. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Very  well.     Proceed. 


3394  MUNITIONS    INDUSTKY 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Then  as  accountant  in  charge  under  Mr.  Cobh,  supervisor  of 
the  cost-accounting  branch  of  the  Philadelphia  district.  Subsequently  I  became 
supervisor  of  the  Philadelphia  district,  the  cost  accounting  branch,  and  con- 
tinued the  supervision  of  the  audit  of  these  contracts.  And  I  continued  in 
that  capacity  until  about  September  1921,  at  which  time  Ma.ior  Farr,  a  special 
representative  of  the  Secretary  of  War,  took  entire  charge  of  the  audit  of  the 
du  Pont  Engineering  Company  contracts,  and  then  I  continued  to  operate  under 
his  direction  until  some  time  in  November  1921,  at  v\'hich  time  I  resigned. 

88  Mr.  Caenduff.  Please  state  the  circumstances  of  your  resignation,  and 
the  reason  for  it. 

Mr.  YouMANS.  I  resigned  so  that  I  could,  in  my  private  capacity,  make  a 
report  to  the  Comptroller  General,  placing  before  him  in  this  report  certain 
matters  that  I  thought  he  might  not  learn  of  through  the  settlement  or  award 
that  was  being  prepared  on  these  contracts. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Just  tell  the  Board  what  the  basis  of  your  report  was, 
briefly,  and  the  reasons  for  it. 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Why,  I  prepared  a  statement  which  included  items  that  he 
had  previously  disapproved. 

General  Williams.  Who  had  previously  disapproved? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  The  Comptroller  General. 

General  Williams.  Yes. 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Showing  the  disposition  that  had  been  made  of  them  by  the 
present  control  over  the  audit  of  these  contracts.  It  was  impossible  to  get  an 
advance  ruling  on  the  items  and  principles  involved  in  this  audit  without  pre- 
senting a  bona  fide  voucher.  So  in  the  course  of  time  vouchers  were  prepared, 
and  attached  to  them  were  the  contractor's  receipted  vouchers  supporting  them. 
These  vouchers  embodied  practically  all  of  the  principal  disputed  items,  and 
his  decision  regarding  the  propriety  of  payment  resulted  in  practically  an 
interpretation  of  the  contract,  and  in  a  great  measure  supported  the  interiire- 
tations  that  had  already  been  given  by  the  cost-accounting  branch. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Mr.  Youmans,  have  you  a  copy  of  the  report  which  you  made 
on  this  subject? 

89  Mr.   Youmans.  I  think  not.     The  copy  that  I   did  have  was  turned 
over  to  Mr.  Cameron,  I  believe. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Have  you  got  it,  Mr.  Cameron?  You  have  a  copy  of  Mr. 
Youman's  report? 

Mr.  Cameron.  I  cannot  recall  it,  but  assuming  that  he  turned  it  over  to 
me,  I  have  it. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Either  he  or  Mr.  Cunningham  of  the  Department  of  Justice 
has  it. 

Mr.  Anderson.  That  is  the  report  to  the  Comptroller? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now,  Mr.  Youmans,  perhaps  we  can  get  along  more  expedi- 
tiously if  I  ask  you  a  few  questions  to  clear  up  my  mind.  You  were  at 
that  time  a  civilian  employee  of  the  Government  in  connection  with  the  War 
Department,  were  you? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Why,  at  what  time?     When  I  made  this  report? 

Mr.  Anderson.  No  ;  before  you  made  this  report. 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  And  let  me  say:  Feel  that  you  can  talk  perfectly  honestly, 
because  there  is  going  to  be  no  criticism  one  way  or  the  other,  because  we 
want  the  full  facts,  and  if  you  have  felt  it  your  duty  to  criticize  anybody,  say 
so.  That  is  the  right  of  the  American  citizen,  you  know,  even  of  the  courts. 
We  do  that.    Then  what  time  was  it  that  yon  resigned? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Why,  sometime  in  November.  I  don't  remember  as  to  dates. 
November  1921. 

Mr.  Anderson.  November  1921.  How  long  had  you  then  been  connected 
with  this  work? 

Mr.  Youmans.  On  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  contract  since  Decem- 
ber 1919. 

90  Mr.  Anderson.  You  worked  at  Wilmington,  did  you,  or  at  Philadelphia? 
Mr.    Youmans.  Wilmington    first.      Subsequently    removed    to    Phila- 
delphia, and  then  back  again  to  Wilmington. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Just  what  was  your  position  in  connection  with  it?  You 
said  yoii  were  supervisor. 

Mr.  Youmans.  Supervising  the  cost-accounting  branch.  Not  exclusively  the 
du  Pont  Engineering  Company  contracts. 


MUNITIOISrS    INDUSTEY  3395 

Mr.  Anobrson.  Why  did  you  feel  that  you  had  to  resign  in  order  to  make 
a  report  to  the  Comptroller  General?  Did  you  feel  that  there  were  irregularities 
going  on  which  you  could  not  report  efficiently  unless  you  were  free  as  a 
private  citizen  to  say  as  you  thought? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Well,  yes. 

Mr.  Andebson.  Don't  hesitate  to  come  right  out  and  talk. 

Mr.  YouMANS.  There  was  a  sense  of  loyalty.  As  long  as  I  was  employed 
by  the  Ordnance  Department,  why  I  made,  prior  to  that,  all  my  reports  to 
them. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Of  course.  Now,  what  were  the  conditions  which  led  you 
to  feel  that  you  ought  to  take  such  a  drastic  step  as  to  resign  in  order  to 
make  that  report? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  I  understood,  or  I  was  told — I  don't  remember  by  whom — that 
the  award  would  be  finally  made  in  a  lump  sum  on  these  contracts? 

Mr.  Anderson.  Yes. 

Mr.  YouMANS.  And  such  an  award  would  practically  bury  all  detail.  And 
in  that  lump-sum  award  would  be  these  items  that  we  had  excluiled,  and  the 
Comptroller  General  himself  had  excluded  and  said  were  not  proper  items  of 
expense  on  the  contract. 

91  Mr.  Anderson.  Could  you  describe  generally  the  character  of  items  to 
whieli  you  refer? 

Mr.  Y'ouMANS.  I  can  recall  some  of  them.  Some  of  them  were  pay-roll  errors, 
duplicate  payments,  and  nondelivery  of  material ;  that  is,  shortages  of  material. 
The  payment  of  bonuses  to  salaried  employees  subsequent  to  the  closing  of  the 
contract. 

Mr.  Anderson.  When  you  say  the  closing  of  the  contract,  do  you  mean  termi- 
nation? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Subsequently  to  the  closing  of  the  plants. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Subsequent  to  the  closing  of  the  plants? 

Mr.  Youmans.  The  conclusion  of  the  operations. 

Mr.  Andeirson.  Can  you  state  approximately  the  amount  of  the  items  so  dis- 
allowed by  you  which  were  to  be  included  in  the  final  lump-sum  allowance  ? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  My  impression  is  about  the  time  that  I  resigned  there  was 
approximately  $5,000,000',  some  of  which  might  have  been  subsequently  cleared 
through  the  establishment  of  delivery  of  material.  A  great  deal  of  this,  or  quite 
a  proportion  of  it,  was  suspensions  for  lack  of  proof  of  delivery  of  material.  And 
the  contracting  officer's  force  were  working  upon  this  phase  of  the  audit,  at- 
tempting to  prove  delivery.  The  proof  of  delivery  having  been  placed  upon  the 
Government  instead  of  the  contractor.  And  through  railroad  records  they 
established  delivery  of  material  on  several  millions — perhaps  five  or  six  mil- 
lion— prior  to  the  time  I  resigned. 

Mr.  Anderson.  What  do  you  mean  by  the  proof  of  delivery  having  been  placed 
on  the  Government  instead  of  the  contractor? 

92  Mr.  Youmans.  The  contractor  claimed  that  he  had  spent  the  money,  and 
he  was  going  to  get  all  that  was  coming  to  him.     He  didn't  have  to  bother 

about  proving  delivery  of  the  material  at  the  plant. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Well,  he  claimed  that,  but  was  that  claim  allowed? 

Mr.  Y''ouMANS.  Well,  he  had  paid  himself  and  there  was  no  proof  of  delivery 
until  we  took  it  up  through  the  railroad  records,  but  I  understand  that  even 
those  items  that  we  disallowed,  because  we  could  not  show  delivery,  were 
ordered  paid  notwithstanding. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Well,  now,  let  me  get  that  a  little  clearer.  You  mean  to  say 
that  because  the  contractor  had  money  in  his  hands  belonging  to  the  Govern- 
ment of  the  United  States,  and  he  credited  himself  with  the  deliveries  of  mate- 
rial, that  he  required  you  to  assume  the  burden  of  disproving  delivery? 

Mr.  You  MANS.  He  did. 

Mr.  Andekson.  As  a  condition  of  removing  the  credit? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Well,  not  even  removing  the  credit.  The  proof  of  delivery  was 
up  to  the  Government  employees. 

Mr.  Anderson.  The  proof  of  nondelivery  was  up  to  the  Government  by  elimi- 
nating delivery ;  is  that  so? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Well,  yes ;  practically. 

Mr.  Andekson.  The  same  thing ;  practically  the  same. 

Mr.  Youmans.  Well,  I  don't  know  -whether  even  then  we  could  prove  non- 
delivery, but  we  could  make  every  possible  effort  to  prove  delivery. 


3396  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Anderson.  In  other  words,  you  would  not  allow  anything  as  a  credit  the 
delivery  of  which  you  could  not  establish ;  is  that  the  idea  ? 

93  Mr.  YouMANS.  That  is  the  idea. 

Mr.  Anderson.  And  he  did  not  assume  the  burden  of  establishing  the 
delivery  of  anything? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  He  did  not ;  no. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now,  how  long  were  you  at  work  on  this  project,  on  this 
contract? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Well,  it  was  over  a  year  and  a  half. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Mr.  Youmans,  what  conditions  did  you  find  with  respect  to  the 
records  of  the  DuPout  Company  covering  this  operation? 

Mr.  YouMANs.  Why,  the  records  were  accurate,  but  very  lacking  in  detail. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Lacking  in  detail? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes. 

Mr.  Andekson.  Now,  please  explain  what  you  mean  by  that,  and,  if  you  can 
do  it,  indicate  to  us  what  records  you  used  in  verifying  the  account,  and  the 
character  of  records. 

Mr.  Youmans.  When  I  said  they  were  lacking  in  detail  there  came  to  my  mind 
miscellaneous  credits.  There  were  several  million  dollars  that  they  had  allowed 
the  Government  for  miscellaneous  credit.  They  were  almost  entirely  lacking  in 
detail.  We  scarcely  knew  from  what  source  they  came.  Material  sold,  and 
refunds,  and  sales  from  commissary,  all  that  sort,  so  lacking  that  we  could  not 
tell  whether  they  should  be  five  millions  or  ten  millions  coming  to  the  Govern- 
ment.    It  was  very  difficult  to  determine  that. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Did  you  find  the  records  of  receipts  of  material  complete? 
Mr.  Youmans.  No.     Those  were  particularly  lacking. 

94  Mr.  Anderson.  Then  how  could  you  verify  deliveries  claimed  by  the 
du  Pont  Company? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Most  of  it  was  done  through  the  railroad  records,  the  records 
of  the  railroad  showing  delivery  of  the  materials,  and  not  depending  upon 
the  du  Pont  records,  because  they  were  so  incomplete. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now  as  I  understand  it  the  du  Pont  Company  received 
so  much  money  from  the  Govei'nment. 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  As  advances  under  this  contract,  and  those  advances  were 
constantly  kept  up  by  payment  on  vouchers  allowed? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes. 

Mr.  Andeuson.  So  that  when  the  contract  was  terminated,  on  the  face  of 
the  papers  the  Government  had  a  credit  with  the  du  Pont  Company  of  a  very 
large  sum  of  money,  amounting  to  some  millions  of  dollars,  is  that  true? 

Mr.   Youmans.  Well,   a   few   millions,   but   not   the  entire   advance. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Not  the  entire  advance,   but  a  very  considerable  sum? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now,  they  had  taken  credit  for  themselves  against  this 
balance  or  advance  by  the  Government  for  all  material  and  labor  and  so 
forth  covered  by  the  contract  which  they  claimed  to  have  delivered  or  ren- 
dered, is  that  it? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Every  bit. 

Mr.  Anderson,  And  you  undertook  to  check  their  credits  which  they 

95  had  taken  against  the  Government  advances  from  their  records,  is  that 
the  case? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes,  sir ;  we  did.     We  verified  all  expenditures. 

Mr.  Anderson.  You  verified  all  the  allowed  expenses? 

Mr.  Youmans.  We  verified  all  the  expenditures  that  they  claimed. 

Mr.  Anderson.  You  verified  all  the  expenditures  that  they  claimed? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now,  could  you  verify  those  expenditures  from  the  available 
records  to  your  satisfaction  as  an  accountant? 

Mr.  Youmans.  We  could  verify  the  actual  expenditure.  We  had  a  cancelled 
check  for  all  the  moneys  that  they  claim  to  have  spent. 

Mr.  ANDB31SON.  Yes ;  but  you  did  not  accept  the  mere  fact  of  expenditures 
as  conclusive  evidence  of  their  right  to  credit,  did  you? 

Mr.  Youmans.  No,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Well,  then,  how  did  you  verify  their  right  to  credit? 

Mr.  Youmans.  By  handling  each  individual  voucher  in  considering  its  ap- 
plicability to  tlie  contract  itself  and  the  necessity  for  the  expenditure. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3397 

Mr.  Andersox.  Did  you  find  vouchers  to  support  all  their  credits  which  you 
had   allowed   up   to  that   time?     I   mean   hy    that,    orii?iiial   papers? 

Mr.  YouMANs.  Yes;  showing  that  the  money  had  actually  been  spent. 
96  Mr.  Andekson.  Did  it  show  for  what  the  money  was  actually  spent? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Some  of  it  only  in  a  general  way.  Like  traveling 
expenses.    Detail  was  very  lacking  on  that. 

Mr.  Anderson.  How^  about  for  material? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  The.v  described  the  material  on  all  the  vouchers. 

Mr.  Anderson.  They  described  the  material  on  all  the  vouchers? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Did  they  have  supporting  papers? 

Ml'.     YOUMANS.    No. 

General  Williams.  That  was  where  your  trouble  came  then,  in  supporting 
papers? 

Mr.  Anderson.  Yes ;  that  is  what  I  am  getting  at. 

Mr.    YouMANS.  That   is   the  proof  of   delivery   that   we    required. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Yes.  Then  you  had  to  verify  the  delivery  of  material  solely 
from    the   railroad   records   where   they    were   lacking   in    supporting'   papers? 

Mr.  YouAfAN.  Almost  entirely. 

Mr.  Anderson.  And  when  the  railroad  records  showed  their  delivery  you 
allowed  them  credit  for  that  material,  is  that  right? 

Mr.  YouMANs.  Yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now  taking  the  labor.  Were  the  vouchers  for  labor  pay- 
ments supported  by  proper  evidence? 

Mr.   YouMANS.  That  was  only   partially   audited,   the   payrolls. 

97  Mr.  Anderson.  What  do  you  mean  by  "partially  audited"? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  That  is,  partially  reviewed.  They  were  supposed  to 
liave  been  audited  at  the  time  that  the  disbursement  was  made.  We  under- 
took to  review^ — make  a  review  audit  of  the  pay  rolls.  We  had  spent  quite  a 
considerable  time,  and  had  suspended  practically  $60,000  in  duplicate  and  over- 
payments. It  was  taken  under  advisement  by  the  District  Claims  Board — the 
amount  to  be  saved,  as  compared  to  the  cost  of  making  the  audit — and  they 
determined  that  the  review  should  not  be  completed  on  the  balance  of  the 
pay  roll. 

Mr.  Anderson.  What  percentage  of  the  pay  roll  did  you  audit?  Approxi- 
mately? 

Mr.  YouMANs.  I  think  about  25  percent  of  that  had  been  completed  before 
I  took  charge. 

Mr.  Andbsison.  What  percentage  of  the  material  accounts  did  you  audit? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Why,  of  all  the  contracts  I  suppose  about  85  or  90  percent. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Did  you  make  a  complete  audit  of  85  or  90  percent  of  the 
vouchers  ? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  And  in  every  instance  satisfied  yourself  as  an  accountant 
that  they  had  adequate  supporting  evidence,  either  from  the  railroad  receipts 
or  from  other  sources? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Then,  as  a  result  of  your  complete  audit  to  the  extent  of  85 
or  90  percent,  and  25  percent  of  the  labor  accounts,  you  had  a  balance  which 
you  refused  to  allow"  of  some  5  million  dollars  in  suspensions? 

98  Mr.  YouMANS.  Practically. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Of  the  entire  accounting  claimed  by  the  du  Pont  Co.? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  In  other  words,  if  that  balance  could  be  cleaned  up  and 
audited  you  would  have  to  do  a  complete  audit  of  the  du  Pont  Company  and  the 
settlement  of  their  aecotints ;  is  that  right? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Well,  that  would  not  have  completed  the  audit.  There  was 
quite  considerable  to  do  besides  that.  After  establishing  delivery  of  material 
tlie  operating  cost;  that  is,  the  operating  processes  had  to  be  checked  up  and 
the  amount  of  material  used. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  see. 

Mr.  Youmans.  Recovered  and  reused.  There  v/as  another  large  item  of 
commissary  expense.  Perhaps  that  was  four  or  five  millions  in  itself.  It 
was  operated  jointly  tbetween  construction  and  operation.  It  was  allocated 
especially  to  the  two  contracts,  one  bearing  a  profit  and  the  other  not,  except 
a  dollar.     That  was  never  audited. 


3398  MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now  then,  in  addition  to  the  $5,000,000  expenses,  there  was 
a  good  deal  of  auditing  yet  to  be  done  wlien  you  discontinued  your  cuuuectiou 
with  the  work? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Yes. 

Mr.  Andekson.  The  work  was  still  in  progress,  was  it? 

Mr.  YouMANs.  Yes. 

Mr.  Andebsox.  Why  did  you  conclude  that  they  were  going  to  allow  a  lump 
sum  to  settle  the  whole  thing? 

Mr.  Yo'UMANS.  I  was  told  so. 

99  Mr.  Anderson.  You  were  told  so? 
Mr.  YouMANS.  Yes. 

General  Williams.  Who  by? 

Colonel  Hull.  Authoritatively? 

Mr.  YouMAxs.  I  think  it  came  from  Major  Farr,  came  down  through  chan- 
nels* that  that  would  be  the  way  it  would  be  handled ;  that  there  would  be 
a  lump-simi  award. 

Mr.  Andekson.  Settlement ;  yes. 

Colonel  Hull.  Did  you  get  that  from  Farr? 

Mr.  YouMANs.  I  am  not  sure. 

Colonel  Hull.  That  is  important. 

Mr.  YouMANS.  It  came  to  me  in  a  way  that  I  accepted  it  as  official  and 
as  true,  anyway ;  that  that  was  the  way  the  settlement  was  to  be  made ;  a 
lump-sum  award,  instead  of  submitting  vouchers  and  detailing  the  contractor's 
bills  or  paid  vouchers  in  support — that  there  would  be  an  award  made. 

Colonel  Hull.  I  would  like  to  have  you  fix  that  as  definitely  as  you  can. 

Mr.  Anderson.  How  can  you  fix  about  the  time  that  that  information 
reached  you,  and  whether  it  was  verbal? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Why,  it  was  verbal. 

Mr.  Anderson.  It  was  verbal? 

Mr.  YouMANs.  Yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  You  are  sure  it  came  to  you  from  a  Government  representa- 
tive? 

Mr.  YouMANs.  Yes ;  it  came  to  me  from  a  Government  representative. 

General  Williams.  And  before  you  resigned? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Oh,  yes ;  probably  two  or  three  weeks  before  I  resigned. 

100  General    Williams.  You    resigned    then    in    September,   you    say? 
Mr.  Youmans.  I  resigned  in  November. 

General  Williams.  November  of  '21? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Just  two  or  three  weeks  before  you  resigned? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  And  you  regarded  that  as  oflicial? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes ;  I  did  regard  that  as  oflicial ;  I  accepted  it.  In  fact,  the 
suspension  of  the  writing  of  the  vouchers  would  indicate  that  also,  because 
up  to  that  time  we  were  preparing  the  vouchers  in  the  regular  way  of  a  cost- 
plus  contract,  detailing  the  vouchers,  and  approving  for  payment  by  the 
Treasury  Department,  or  the  War  Department. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now,  Mr.  Youmans,  did  you  think  at  that  time,  or  have 
reason  which  was  sufficient  in  your  judgment  to  believe  that  there  had  been 
irregularities?  And  when  I  use  the  term,  I  do  not  necessarily  mean  fraud, 
but  irregularities  in  the  performance  of  this  contract,  or  in  the  settlement  of 
this  contract?  I  want  you  to  speak  out  quite  frankly  and  tell  us  what  they 
were,  if  you  thought  so.  The  fact  that  you  thought  so  does  not  make  it 
necessarily  true,  but  it  will  enable  us  to  investigate  what  were  your  conclusions. 

Mr.  Youmans.  Why,  it  seemed  very  evident  to  me,  because  we  were  handling 

similar  contracts  right  along,  and  these  were  not  handled  in  the  same  way, 

they   were  not   oi>erated   in   the   same   way.     On   other   contracts,   before   the 

purchases  were  made  they  were  approved  by  some  price-approving  body 

101  or   representative.      And    there   were   no    price  approvals   made   on    the 
du  Pont  Engineering  Company  contracts,  so  far  as  I  know,  except  in 

some  isolated  cases  after  the  goods  were  purchased,  and  those  were  by  rubber 
stamp,  and  initialed  by  some  officer  on  them. 

Mr.  Andekson.  Did  you  find  any  evidence,  in  your  opinion,  meriting  consid- 
eration, that  the  du  Pont  Company  availed  themselves  of  this  condition  to 
bu.v,  either  from  their  subsidiary  companies,  or  anyone  else,  at  extravagant 
prices  ? 

Mr.  Youmans.  I  was  not  in  a  position  to  know  just  how  extravagant  they 
were  in  comparison  to  what  they  actually  had  to  buy.     I  knew  they  bought 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3369 

from  subsidiary  companies,  but  I  never  went  very  extensively  into  the  com- 
parison of  prices,  only  they  seemed  very  high  to  me,  and  going  higher. 

INIr.  Ande3{Son.  Well,  you  said  they  bought  from  their  subsidiary  companies. 
Could  you  suggest  some  of  the  names  of  those  companies,  if  you  know  them? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Well,  the  paint  company  is  one. 

General  Williams.  What  paint  company? 

Mr.  Anderson.  Do  you  mean  the  Harrison  Paint  Company? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  l"es.  And  then  I  have  forgotten  the  name  of  this  wall  board ; 
I  think  they  supplied  all  of  them. 

General  Williams.  Beaver  Board  Company? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Let's  see — I  don't  think  it  was  Beaver  Board. 

Mr.  Andekson.  Any  motor  cars? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Why,  I  don't  know  of  any. 

Mr.  ANDEajsoN.  Do  you  recall  any  purchases  from  Mason-Hanger  Com- 
pany? 

102  Mr.   YouMANS.  Do  I   recall  any  purchases   from   Mason-Hanger   Com- 
pany? 

Mr.  Andekson.  Y'es. 

Mr.  YouMANS.  No;  any  more  than  the  subcontract  that  the  Mason  &  Hanger 
Company  operated. 

Mr.  Ande]rson.  Yes.  Now,  did  you  see  any  evidence  there  of  their  paying 
profits  to  these  subsidiary  companies  which  seemed  abnormal?  I  am  not 
undertaking  to  cross-examine  you,  but  merely  to  get  at  some  definite  points 
that  we  can  investigate,  if  you  have  any  in  mind. 

Mr.  Y'ouMANS.  Profits  to  subsidiary  companies — I  don't  know  as  they  paid 
any  profits.  Unless  included  in  the  purchase  price.  Perhaps  you  have  in  mind 
the  Mason  &  Hanger  subcontract,  on  which  I  considered  there  was  an  excessive 
fee  paid. 

iMr.  Andersow.  Well,  tell  us  about  that. 

Mr.  Y'ouMANS.  Of  course,  there  is  a  difference  of  opinion  as  to  the  interpreta- 
tion of  that  contract — that  subcontract. 

Mr.  Andehson.  Well,  give  us  your  opinion. 

Mr.  YouMANS.  But  it  appears  to  me  that  .$20.j,000 — I  think  it  is  the  maximum 
fee  expressed — or  two  hundred  and  fift.y — :ind  $1,026,000'  w^as  paid  them. 

Mr.  Anderson.  What  do  you  mean  "as"? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  As  profits.     Mason  &  Hanger  furnished  no  money,  nor  much 

of  anything  else  as  far  as  I  can  figure  out.     The  Government  financed   the 

whole   transaction.     Mason   &   Hanger   loaned   their    skeleton   organization — I 

think  there   was   only   one  man   that   did  not   draw   a    salary,   possibly 

103  two   men   that    did  not   draw   a    salary   which   was   reimbursed   by   the 
Government  through  the  du  Ponts,  and  it  got  a  fee  of  $1,026,000. 

Mr.  Andeirson.  Do  you  mean  a  percentage  on  the  amount  expended  on  their 
subcontract? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Yes. 

Mr.  Andeirson.  That  was  actually  allowed,  was  it? 

Mr.  Y^'ouMANS.  They  paid  themselves;  they  reimbursed  themselves.  It  was 
paid  to  Mason  &  Hanger,  and  they  reimbursed  themselves  to  Mason  &  Hanger. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Do  you  know  whether  that  was  allowed  in  the  final  settle- 
ment or  not? 

Mr.  YoTJMANS.  I  cannot  say. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now,  were  there  any  other  evidences  of  what  you  conceived 
to  be  irregular  or  improper  transactions  that  came  under  your  observation  in 
connection  with  it? 

Mr.  YofMANS.  Well,  the  principal  thing  is  their  lack  of,  you  might  say,  sup- 
port ;  their  actual  unaccountability  for  the  money  exi>ended.  For  instance, 
labor  scouts  were  given  five  or  ten  thousand  dollars,  and  they  were  sent  out. 
and  they  reported  in  a  statement  or  a  letter,  or  something,  to  the  effect  that 
they  had  purchased  railroad  fares  and  paid  meals  in  transit  for  so  many  men, 
ani(!unting  to  so  much  money,  and  that  is  all  the  support  we  had.  We  were  not 
sure  whether  they  employed  one  man,  shipped  one  man,  or  whether  they  bought 
one  meal,  or  whether  they  delivered  one  man  or  two  men  at  the  plant.  That 
was  the  support  that  was  given  an  expenditure  of  five  or  ten  thousand 
dollars. 

104  Mr.  Anderson.  Can  you  recall  any  other  large  items  that  were  unsup- 
ported of  that  character? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Well,  of  course,  traveling  expenses  were  very  large  items 
that  were  lacking  in  detail.  They  would  seldom,  if  ever,  mention  the  reasons 
for  making  the  trip  or  in  any  way  explaining  the  necessity  for  it,  and  making 


3400  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

it  very  difficult  to  audit  and  pass  upon  the  expenditures  of  those  funds.  It 
might  have  been  a  joy  ride. 

And  then  moving  expenses  in  and  out  of  the  plant  of  employees.  If  their 
goods  were  in  storage  the  contractor  paid  their  storage  bill  then  due,  paid  for 
the  packing  of  the  furniture,  the  transportation  of  it  to  the  plant,  the  settling 
of  the  house  at  the  plant,  and  at  the  time  of  the  closing  of  the  plant,  or  sub- 
sequent to  it,  when  they  returned,  why,  the  same  operation  was  gone  through 
again,  paying  all  the  expenses,  paying  the  transportation  of  the  employee's 
family.  And  in  case  of  breakage,  why,  the  contractor  paid  for  the  breakage 
of  furniture.  Apparently  no  attempt  being  made  to  hang  a  responsibility  on 
the  railroad ;  either  the  railroad  or  the  packer  or  the  shipper.  The  contractor 
assumed  the  breakage. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Mr.  Youmans,  you  might  speak  briefly  of  vacation  allow- 
ances, machinery,  and  electrical  fixtures. 

Mr.  Andebson.  I  wish  you  would  take  that  up  now.  You  know  more  about 
this  than  I  do,  Major  Carnduff. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  All  right.  Tell  the  Board  briefly  about  vacation  privileges 
allowed. 

Mr.  Youmans.  From  30  to  60  days  were  allowed  the  salaried  employees 
after  their  services  terminated.    This  was  given  them  in  addition  to  their 

105  transportation  home,  and  was  paid  them,  regardless  of  whether  they  had 
worked   three   days — that   is,   the   minimum    allowance   was   paid   them, 

Avhether  they  had  worked  three  days  or  a  longer  period. 

Mr.  Anderson.  What  was  the  minimum  allowance? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Well,  it  was  not  less  than  thirty  days,  and  I  think  it  was 
sixty — it  was  either  sixty  or  ninety  days ;  I  am  not  so  positive  about  that. 

Colonel  Huix.  Wasn't  it  thirty  days? 

General  Williams.  It  must  be  a  matter  of  record. 

Colonel  Hull.  It  must  be  a  matter  of  record. 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes ;  it  must  be  a  matter  of  record. 

Colonel  Hull.  Some  thirty  and  some  sixty. 

Mr.  Youmans.  I  rather  think  so. 

Colonel  Hull.  Well,  it  is  all  a  matter  of  record. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Let  us  have  machinery  and  electrical  fixtures.  What  dis- 
crepancies, if  any,  did  you  find  there? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Well,  I  don't  recollect  just  what  you  refer  to  there.  I  rather 
think  that  that  is  something  that  Mr.  Peebles  developed  in  his  checking  up  the 
physical  property. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  We  will  get  that. 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes ;  in  the  matter  of  checking  up  the  physical  property. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  And  when  you  referred  to  85  percent  of  deliveries  being 
reconciled  by  the  fi-eight  bills,  were  you  referring  to  all  expenses  or  merely  to 
t.peration  expenses,  or  to  construction,  or  which? 

]Mr.  Youmans.  I  was  referring  to  both  operation  and  construction. 
Mr.  Carnduff.  Both  operation  and  construction? 

106  Mr.  Youmans.  Yes. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Is  there  anything  else  you  can  add  briefly.  Mr.  You- 
mans? 

Mr.  Youmans.  I  had  not  mentioned  particularly  these  bonuses  paid. 

General  Williams.  Well,  that  is  all  a  matter  of  i-ecord,  too,  I  believe. 

Mr.  Youmans.  (3h,  yes ;  that  is  all  a  matter  of  record.  We  had  a  great  deal 
of  correspondence  with  it. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now,  Mr.  Youmans,  were  there  any  other  facts  in  connection 
with  the  matter  which  made  you  feel  it  your  duty  as  a  citizen  to  bring  this 
matter  to  the  attention  of  the  Comptroller  General  in  the  form  of  a  protest, 
other  than  you  have  indicated? 

Mr.  Youmans.  No;  I  had  no  other  motive  whatever  except  to  get  before  him 
what  was  liable  to  be  presented  in  that  lump-sum  award. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Well,  do  you  know  how  •  much  was  paid  in  the  lump-sum 
award? 

Mr.  Youmans.  I  never  knew  anything  about  the  award.  It  was  made  sub- 
sequent to  my  connection  with  it. 

Genei-al  Williams.  There  was  an  award,  was  there? 

Colonel  Hull.  I  will  say  that  I  never  heard  of  the  term  "lump-sum  award" 
in  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  until  it  was  mentioned  today. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3401 

Mr.  ANDEa?sox.  What  was  the  general  character  of  your  report  to  the  Comp- 
troller General?     Merely  a  protest  against  payment V 

107  Mr.  YouMANs.  It  was  not  a  protest  even.     I  criticised  no  one  at  all. 
Merely  presented  some  facts  that   I  wanted  to   get  to  him  so  that  he 

would  be  warned  and  know  what  that  lump  sum  might  contain. 

Mr.  Anderson.  And  it  dealt  chiefly  with  the  items  that  you  reviewed? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Ye.s,  and  I  showed  the  action  taken  by  Major  Farr  on  those 
same  items. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Well,  what  was  that  action? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Approved  all  the  items  that  the  Comptroller  General  had 
suspended. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Major  Farr  did  approve  all  the  items? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Novv^,  without  in  any  way  suggesting  criticism  of  Major  Farr 
I  would  like  to  ask  you  if  there  are  any  other  actions  of  his  that  you  think 
are  subject  to  criticism,  or  difference  of  opinion  even,  because  we  are  investi- 
gating all  these  things,  you  know.  We  want  to  get  at  the  facts,  and  I  don't 
mean  to  imply  by  that  the  slightest  criticism  of  either  Major  Farr  or  yourself. 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Why,  the  only  comment  I  can  make  there  is  simply  a  com- 
Ijarison  between  his  printed  decisions  made  as  presiding  oflScer  in  the  Board 
of  Contract 

General  Williams.  Adjustment. 

Mr.  YouMANS   (continuing).  Adjustment,  I  think  it  is. 

General  Williams.  Yes. 

Mr.  YouMANS.  The  records  are  full  of  decisions  on  parallel  cases,  and  they 
were  entirely  opposite  or  opposed  to  those  made  in  the  Du  Pont  Engineering 
Company. 

108  General  Williams.  I  would  like  to  ask  Mr.  Youmans  a  question  or 
two. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Are  the  decisions  in  the  du  Font  Engineering  Company  cases 
in  writing?     Were  they  in  writing? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes;  I  believe  I  have  a  copy  of  it.  It  is  bound.  Now  hold  on. 
The  hearing  we  had  before  them  was  printed.  But  these  subsequent  decisions 
and  approvals  were  not  included  in  that,  because  he  was  not  acting  then  in 
connection  with  the  Board  of  Contract  Adjustment. 

Mr.  Anderson.  .Just  approved  papers? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Do  you  regard  it  as  in  conflict  with  his  decision  as  chairman 
of  that  board? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes. 

Mr.  Andei;son.  Anything  else  in  that  connection  which  you  suggest  was 
erroneous? 

Mr.  Youmans.  No  ;  I  have  nothing  more  to  say  in  regard  to  that. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now,  General,  I  am  through. 

General  Williams.  You  spoke  about  certain  Comptroller's  decisions,  and  as 
I  luiderstood  you  to  say.  the  principles  of  those  Comptroller's  decisions  were 
not  followed? 

Mr.  Youmans.  No  ;  they  were  not. 

General  Williams.  Were  vouchers  prepared  and  passed  for  payment  contrary 
to  the  decisions  of  the  Comptroller? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Major  Farr  ordered  those  items  approved,  the  identical  items 
that  the  Comptroller  had  disapproved. 

General  Williams.  Without  any  further  evidence  or  supporting  evidence  in 
the  matter? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Exactly. 

109  General  Williams.  And  the  Comptroller  had  specified  these  particular 
things  as  disapproved? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes.  I  took  this  particular  method  of  getting  the  Comptroller 
General's  interpretation  of  that  contract. 

General  Williams.  That  is  all  I  care  to  ask. 

Mr.  Carndufp.  Mr.  Y^oumans,  is  thei*e  anything  further  you  can  add  before 
leaving  this  committee  that  will  throw  any  further  light  on  the  investigation, 
or  have  you  told  all  within  your  knowledge  that  will  assist  us  in  this  inves- 
tigation? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Why,  I  think  so.     All  of  the  the  principal  matters. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  By  the  way,  did  the  Comptroller  General  ever  acknowledge 
receipt  of  your  protest? 


3402  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  YouMANS.  He  never  did. 

Mr.  Carndxjff.  Do  you  know  that  it  readied  liim? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  I  sent  it  by  registered  mail. 

Mr.  Caenduff.  Did  you  get  a  receipt? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  No;  I  did  not  require  a  receipt. 

Colonel  HxjLL.  I  have  a  few  questions. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Proceed. 

Colonel  Hull.  I  wish  you  would  go  bacls  to  that  lump-sum  award.  I  was 
not  connected  with  the  War  Department  claims  board  in  November  when  you 
resigned.     Colonel  Morrow  was  then  in  charge,  as  you  recall. 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Yes. 

Colonel  Htxll.  When  I  tell  you  I  never  heard  of  the  term  "  lump-sum 

110  award  "  in  connection  with  these  contracts  before  today,  I  would  appre- 
ciate it  very  much  if  you  would  search  your  memory  and  try  to  fix  when 

you  heard  that. 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Well,  now,  I  have  been  searching  ever  since  you  made  the 
inquiry,  but  I  do  not  think  that  I  can  say  who  just  told  me  that,  but  that  is 
just  the  term.     I  don't  mean  that  that  is  the  way  it  came  to  me. 

Colonel  Hull.  How  could  you  make  a  lump-sum  award  in  this  case? 

Mr.  YouMANs.  I  don't  know.  I  don't  know.  This  case  is  a  special  one, 
anyway. 

Colonel  Hull.  How  did  it  fit  this  kind  of  a  case? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  It  didn't  appear  to,  to  me,  but  it  seemed  the  action  that  was 
being  taken  regarding  the  abandonment  of  preparing  vouchers  further  sub- 
stantiated the  information  that  came  to  me. 

Colonel  Hull.  You  mean  Major  Farr's  instructions  not  to  set  up  certain 
settlement  summaries? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Yes ;  Major  Marr's  instructions  not  to  set  up  certain  sum- 
maries. 

Colonel  Hull.  Not  to  set  up  certain  summaries. 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Yes ;  discontinue  that  entirely. 

General  Williams.  I  am  ratlier  wondering  whether  the  Government  would 
not  save  money  by  such  relations. 

Colonel  Hull.  Now  on  the  subsidiary  companies,  you  completed  absolutely 
all  the  audit  accounting  work,  did  you  not,  on  all  the  contracts  except  Old 
Hickory? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  No.  Operating  costs  had  not  been  gone  into  on  any  of  those 
contracts.     We  were  still  waiting  for  a  decision  as  to  the  necessity  of 

111  furnishing  proof  of  delivery  of  material.     That  was  still  an  open  ques- 
tion.    Operating  costs  were  not  to  be  gone   into  until  after  that  was 

determined. 

Colonel  Hull.  Now,  wliat  were  those  complete  papers  that  you  were  pre- 
paring and  showed  me  on  Seven  Pines  and  those  kind  of  papers? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Well,  Seven  Pines,  you  will  find  that  the  report  itself  refen-ed 
to  items  that  were  not 

Colonel  Hull.  Take  those  papers  there  and  turn  it  over.  Take  your  report 
there  to  me. 

Mr.  YouMANs.  I  think  in  a  paragraph  you  will  find  that  I  make  esjception  to 
those  particular  items  not  yet  printed. 

Colonel  Hull.  Let  us  get  that. 

Mr.  YouMANS.  There  was  also  administrative  expense  of  the  parent  company 
that  was  not  included  here.  That  was  an  item  that  was  in  suspension  also, 
that  was  not  finished. 

Colonel  Hull.  Because  that  was  in  debit? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Yes. 

Colonel  Hull.  That  was  appealed  to  the  Secretary  of  War? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Yes. 

Colonel  Hull.  But  I  mean  the  accounting  had  all  been  done  on  it,  hadn't  it? 
The  decision  hadn't  been  made,  wasn't  that  it? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  We  had  covered  the  delivery  of  the  material,  and  the  expendi- 
ture had  been  made.  We  set  up  all  of  our  suspensions,  except  that  the  actual 
operating  costs  and  verification  of  the  profits  and  the  parent  company's  ad- 
ministrative expense — the  portion  to  be  assumed,  and  those  were  still  open 
items  on  that  report. 

112  Colonel  Hull.  The  accounting  had  been  done.     The  question  was  as 
to  whether  as  a  legal  matter  certain  of  these  items  were  to  come  in  or 

not,  wasn't  that  the  fact? 
Mr.  YouMANS.  Yes. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3403 

Colonel  Hull.  So  you  bad  tlien  the  decision  of  the  Secretary  of  War,  l)y  the 
various  appeals,  and  so  forth,  and  you  could  not  allocate  it  one  way  or  the 
other  until  that  had  been  done? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Yes. 

Colonel  Hull.  But  the  original  investigation  of  the  vouchers,  though,  and 
all  the  accounting  had  been  done  on  all  those  items? 

Mr.  YouMAXs.  They  had  practically  completed,  finished  with  the  vouchers. 
We  couldn't  determine  the  administrative  expense  until  we  could  get  a  certain 
decision. 

Colonel  Hull.  You  couldn't  determine  the  administrative  expense  until  you 
could  get  a  certain  decision  as  to  whetlier  this  voucher  sihould  go  in  under  this 
line  or  on  the  other  side  of  the  fence? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Yes. 

Colonel  Hull.  But  the  work  had  been  done? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Yes. 

Colonel  Hull.  And  you  had  to  get  the  decisions  to  throw  them  one  way  or 
the  other,  according  to  the  decisions  of  the  authorities? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Yes. 

Colonel  Hull.  And  that  was  true  with  all  these? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Yes. 

Colonel  Hull.  Now,  wasn't  every  decision  on  all  those  questions,  so  far  as 
you  know,  in  writing? 

113  Mr.  YouMANS.  No ;  some  of  them  had  not  come  through  yet  w-lien  I 
left. 

Colonel  Hull.  But  1  mean  those  that  had  come  through ;  weren't  they  all  in 
writing? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Yes. 

Colonel  Hull..  Can  you  recall  to  mind  any  decision  that  was  orally  made  on 
any  of  these  questions? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  They  were  not  made,  only  by  Major  Farr. 

Colonel  Hull.  But  give  us  some  sample  of  any  oral  decisions  of  Major  Farr. 

Mr.  YouMANS.  No  oral  decisions. 

Colonel  HuLU.  No  oral  decisions? 

I\Ir.  YouMANS.  No ;  they  came  through  in  writing. 

CV>lonel  Hull.  In  writing? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Yes. 

Colonel  Hull.  They  were  all  in  writing? 

Mr.  YoLTMANs.  Yes;  in  fact,  I  required,  when  there  was  any  oral  decision — 
I  asked  to  have  it  reduced  to  vrriting  every  time  there  was  an  oral  decision. 

Colonel  Hull.  No  objection  from  your  superior  officer  in  doing  that,  was 
there? 

Mr.  YouMAxs.  Yes;  because  I  think  it  is  very  necessary  in  undertaking  any- 
thing of  that  kind  to  have  it  in  writing  to  support  the  action  that  I  took. 

Colonel  Hull.  I  say  did  Major  Farr  make  an  objection  to  that  request  for 
decision  in  writing? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  No ;  because,  by  reason  of  the  purpose  for  which  it  was  in- 
tended, he  could  not  take  any  exception. 

114  Colonel  Hull.  Consequently,  on  these  audits  here,  if  there  had  been 
any  improper  dealings  with  subsidiary  companies  up  to  the  time  of  these 

reports,  you  would  have  mentioned  it  in  here,  would  you  not?     You  questioned 
every  voucher? 

Mr.  Y'ouiiANS.  We  did  not 

Colonel  Hull.  You  questioned  every  voucher? 

iMr.  YouMANS.  We  questioned  every  voucher,  but  not  prices. 

Colonel  Hull.  Sir? 

Mr.  YouMANs.  Pricesi  are  something  that  were  left  entirely  alone. 

Colonel  Hull.  You  didn't  go  into  the  prices  on  any  of  these? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  On  anything. 

]Mr.  Anderson.  May  I  ask  a  question,  or  will  it  bother  you.  Colonel  Hull? 

Colonel  Hull.  You  may. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Why  did  you  leave  the  prices  entirely  alone? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Why,  we  were  so  advised  by — I  think  it  was  the  District 
Claims  Board  at  the  time. 

iNIr.  Anderson.  In  other  words,  you  didn't  undertake  to  verify  the  fact  that 
the  amount  charged  against  the  Government  was  the  price  paid  by  the  du  Pont 
Company  for  the  stuff  at  all? 

Mr.  Youmans.  No. 

8.3876— 35— PT  14 16 


3404  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

ColDuel  HuivL.  Those  instructions  came  from  Mr.  Jones? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Tliat  I  can't  sa.v.     Tliat  was  a  matter  that  was  liandled  I)efore 
I  became  f-nipervisor  of  tlie  district.     The  order  came  to  me  throuj-'li  Mr. 

115  Cobb,  tlien  supervisor,  but  I  thinlv  it  was  talien  up  by  tlie  Board. 

Colonel  Hull.  Jones  was  in  charge  at  that  time? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Yes ;  but  I  am  pretty  sure  that  particular  subject  was  settled 
down  here  in  Washington.  I  think  he  came  on  for  the  purpose  of  dis- 
cussing that  very   matter. 

Mr.  Andeuison.  Now,  let  me  get  that  quite  clear,  Mr.  Youmans.  If,  for 
instance,  you  had  a  bill  for  material  at  the  cost  of  $100,000,  bought  from  some 
concern.  You  had  no  way  of  verifying  the  fact  that  the  du  Pont  Company 
paid  $100,000  for  that  material? 

Mr.  YouMANs.  Yes;  we  had.  That  is,  they  paid  it.  Because  we  would  check 
against  that  voucher  the  cancelled  check.     But  beyond  that  we  didn't  go. 

Mr.  Anue];son.  In  other  words,  the  actual  charge  to  them ;  while  they  may 
have  paid  out  the  money,  you  didn't  investigate  whether  the  price  was  the 
price  of  the  material  at  that  time,  or  whether  the  man  that  sold  it  was  actually 
selling  material  at  that  price.  In  other  words,  it  might  have  been  a  padded 
account? 

Mr.  YouMATvS.  It  might  have  been. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Did  you  have  any  reason  to  believe  that  any  of  those  accounts 
were  irregular  or  inaccurate? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Nothing  more  than  in  noting  the  apparently  excessive  prices. 
They  were  large,  but  just  whether  they  were  necessary  or  not,  why  we  never 
discovered  it. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Do  you  know  whether  those  prices  were  ever  checked  by 
anybody?    Did  you  ever  hear  of  it? 

Mr.  YoujtANS.  I  never  knew  that  they  were.     They  had  no  previous 

116  approval  before  the  purcliase  was  made.     The  contractor  admitted  that. 
And  any  subsequent  approval  was  included  in  the  contracting  officer's 

stamp,  which  was  put  on  there  and  initialed,  and  supposed  to  cover  the  price 
and  the 'quality  and  the  quantity  and  its  applicability  to  the  contract,  and 
the  necessity  for  the  expenditure.  It  was  supposed  to  include  all  of  that, 
and  was  covered  by  a  rubber  stamp  and  initial. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  see.  Now,  then,  he  decided  all  that  question  before  it 
reached  you.  You  merely  audited  on  the  basis  of  his  decision  that  the  price 
was  fair? 

Mr.  YouitANs.  Yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now,  do  I  understand  from  you  that  the  Government  turned 
over  the  money  to  the  du  Pont  Company,  and  they  bought  at  any  price  they 
saw  fit.  and  that  that  was  not  subject  to  review  by  anybody? 

Mr.  YovMANs.  It  was  not  reviewed  anyway  by  anyone  before  they  actually 
made  the  purchase,  and  was  not  approved  by  anybody  before  they  made  the 
purchase. 

Mr.  Anderson.  But  after  they  made  the  purchase  it  was  subject  to  review 
then  by  the  contracting  officer? 

]\Ir.  Youmans.  It  was ;  yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  And  you  did  not  pass  any  vouchers  that  did  not  have  a  stamp 
on  them? 

Mr.  Youmans.  No  ;  I  did  not. 

Mr.  Anderson.  In  other  words,  you  would  have  to  have  that  stamp  showing 
approval  of  price,  amount,  and  applicability  in  order  to  pass  the  voucher  at  all? 
Mv.  Youmans.  Yes;  that  was  required,  according  to  our  manual. 

117  Mr.  Anderson.  Yes.     So  that  all  of  the  accounts  that  you  audited  had 
that  approval  on  them,  and  then  you  had  reduced  the  amount  of  un- 
allowed items  down  to  about  $5,000,000  when  you  left? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Items  in  suspension? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes. 

Mr.  Andehson.  Did  that  include  both  construction  and  operation? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  So  that  the  balance  of  unaudited  and  unallowed  accounts 
when   you   left   in   November   1021    was   approximately   $5,000,000? 

!\Ir.  Yot-mans.  No.;  I  would  not  say  that.  The  unaudited  portion  was  about 
from  10  to  15  percent. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  say,  of  the  whole  contract? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3405 

Mr.  YouJiANs.  Yes.  Whether  that  would  increase  or  decrease  the  disapproved 
items  I  could  not  say.  Besides  that  there  might  have  been  suspensions  made 
when  we  audited  operating  costs  of  the  various  processes  of  manufacture. 

Mr.  Andekson.  Mr.  Youmans,  did  you  see  anything  in  connection  with  the 
operation  of  this  contract  which,  as  an  officer  of  the  Government,  you  thought 
the  Government  was  not  adequately  protected  in,  in  accordance  with  its  regu- 
lations, or  that  was  irregular,  on  the  part  of  the  du  Pont  Company,  that  you 
have  not  mentioned? 

Mr.  Youmans.  I  don't  think  so.  There  is  nothing  else  occurs  to  me  right 
now. 

118  Mr.  Anderson.  Is  there  anything  that  you  can  suggest  that  would  be 
helpful   to   this   committee  in  making  its  survey   of  this   contract   and 

transaction  in  getting  at  the  facts,  or  getting  at  anything  in  connection  with 
the  contract  that  you  think  ought  to  be  investigated?  Can  you  suggest  any- 
thing? You  see  you  spent  a  year  and  a  half  on  this  thing,  and  we  have  just 
taken  it  up  fresh. 

Colonel  Hull.  Two  years. 

Mr.  ANDBiJsoN.  Now  can  you  give  us  any  points  that  we  ought  to  look  into, 
charged  with  a  duty  as  a  Government  officer? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Well,  certainly  the  prices  ought  to  be  looked  into. 

Mr.  Andeeson.  You  mean  the  prices  paitl  by  the  du  Pont  Company? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes. 

Mr.  Andekson.  To  the  persons  from  whom  purchases  were  made? 

Mr.  Youmans.  If  the  prices  were  correct  it  would  not  occur  to  me  that  it 
made  any  difference  from  whom  they  were  purchasetl. 

Mr.  Andeeson.  That  is  right.  Now,  if  those  prices  were  approved  by  a  repre- 
sentative of  the  War  Department,  and  there  was  nothing  in  them  so  extravagant 
as  to  suggest  negligence  or  error,  or  worse,  would  you  think  that  we  ought  to 
survey  that  subject  now  after  his  approval  a  year  or  two  ago? 

Mr.  Youmans.  His  approval  as  to  prices  was  practically  worthless,   as  he 

also  was   operating  under  that  first   instruction   that   the   prices   were  to    be 

approved  on  the  vouchers.     He  made  no  verification  of  them,  and  the 

119  instructions  went  to  the  contracting  officer  really  instead  of  to  the  ac- 
countant, because  he  was  the  price-approving  man. 

Mr.  Andekson.  Let  us  get  that  clear.  You  say  that  there  were  instructions 
sent  to  the  contracting  officer  that  he  was  not  to  check  prices? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes;  it  was  given  to  him,  and  he  operated  under  that,  because 
there  had  been  no  comparisons,  so  far  as  I  know. 

Mr.  Andekson.  Who  was  the  contracting  officer  at  the  time  these  purchases 
were  made?    Do  you  recall? 

Colonel  Hull.  Those  instructions  did  not  go  to  the  purchaser.  You  mean  to 
Major  Guise? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes ;  and  Peebles. 

Colonel  Hull.  Which  one  do  you  mean? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Major  Guise  had  them  first. 

The  Chairman.  Who  gave  those  instructions? 

Mr.  Youmans.  I  mean  the  review  the  subsequent  audit.  There  was  no  in- 
struction issued,  so  far  as  I  know,  to  the  contracting  officer  at  the  plant  during 
its  operation  to  either  approve  or  disapprove  the  prices,  or  verify  them  or  not 
verify  them. 

Mr.  Andekson.  In  other  words  they  were  accepted.  Vouchers  passed  during 
the  iieriod  of  construction  and  operation  were  just  passed  through? 

Mr.  Youmans.  They  were  passed  through.  They  paid  themselves  and  they 
were  up  for  audit  subsequently. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Then  when  you  came  to  check  the  accounts  the  contracting 
officer  was  given  instructions  not  to  undertake  to  verify  prices  but  to  accept  the 
prices  charged? 

120  Mr.  Youmans.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Were  those  instructions  in  writing:  do  you  know? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Why,  I  don't  know  just  how  they  came  to  him." 

General  Wh.liams.  Is  this  the  contracting  officer,  do  you  mean? 

Colonel  Hull.  Yes. 

Mr.  Youmans.  Major  Guise  was  the  first  contracting  officer,  and  Mr.  Peebles 
succeeded  him.  and  Mr.  Peebles  would  not  have  the  instructions.  They  were 
given  to  Major  Guise  I  am  pretty  sure.    But  prices  were  not  considered.' 


3406  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Ml".  Andeeson.  So  your  view  is  tliat  tlie  prices  never  liave  been  clieclied  at 
air.' 

Mr.  You  MANS.  No. 

General  Williams.  Well,  were  tliey  checked  at  the  plant,  do  you  know,  at  the 
time  of  receipt?    Do  you  know  that  Mr.  Youmans? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Well,  they  were  in  the  same  manner  that  delivery  was  checked. 
Quantity  and  quality.  There  was  a  report  stamp  put  on  them  and  soniebotly's 
initial. 

General  Williams.  And  that  carried  the  approval  of  the  price  paid? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes ;  that  certified  that  the  price  was  right,  and  the  material 
was  correct,  and  the  cpiantity  was  right,  and  that  the  purchase  was  necessary. 

Mr.  Carndufp.  Mr.  Youmans,  who  Vvas  the  contracting  officer  at  the 
plant? 

121  Mr.  Youmans.  Why,  I  don't  recollect.    There  was  a  Major  Wood  at  one 
time,  I  believe.    They  had  several  of  them. 

Mr.  Caenduff.  Was  it  Captain  Foulke? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes ;  he  was  one  of  them. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Was  it  a  matter  of  fact  that  Captain  Foull^e  was  contracting 
officer  during  the  majority  of  the  time  of  this  contract? 

Mr.  Youmans.  I  think  that  his  tenure  of  office  was  longer  than  anyone  else's, 
yes,  and  Ire  was  the  last  one,  I  believe.  His  certification  appears  on  more 
vouchers  than  anyone  else's  or  all  the  rest  of  them  combined. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Do  you  know  how  old  a  man  he  was? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Why,  I  never  had  met  the  man.  I  understand  he  is  a  young- 
man. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  He  was  a  lieutenant,  wasn't  he,  at  the  beginning? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes.    I  believe  the  son-in-law  of  one  of  the  du  Fonts. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  want  to  get  in  here — I  was  getting  some  other  witnesses 
while  you  were  testifying,  Mr.  Youmans — a  very  brief  statement  of  your  ex- 
perience as  an  accountant  prior  to  entering  the  ordnance  service.  Will  you  just 
give  us  say  the  ten  years  before  you  went  into  this  Ordnance  Department, 
your  experience? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Well,  I  don't  know  that  I  can  recall  the  exact  dates,  but  for 
a  period  I  was  with  the  Audit  Company  of  New  York. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  In  what  capacity? 

Mr.    Youmans.  As   junior   accountant.      Subsequently    with    Marv.ick. 

122  Mitchell  &  Feet,  semisenior.     I  was  in  business  for  myself  doing  audit- 
ing work  for  a  period  of  about  two  years.     And   I    was   employed   by 

Edison  to  install  a  cost  system  in  the  Bates  Division,  and  operated  the  system 
for  a  time,  and  became  manager  of  that  particular  division.  That  covers  prac- 
tically all  my  public  accountant  work. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  You  are  what  is  known  as  an  expert  public  accountant? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Well,  I  have  qualified  as  such. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  And  as  such  you  are  at  present  employed  by  the  Government. 
Mr.  Youmans? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes ;  I  have  a  rating  as  senior  accountant  in  the  civil  service. 
anyway. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Thank  you ;  that  is  sufficient. 

Mr.  Andier,S0'N.  Mr.  Youmans,  did  you  find  that  the  du  Font  Company  co- 
operated with  you  in  getting  the  facts  and  data  in  making  these  checks  and 
accounts? 

Mr.  Youmans.  No.  They  gave  me  what  they  had  to  give  me,  or  else  I  got 
it  by  stealth,  or  any  other  way  that  I  could  get  it.  They  were  rather  inde- 
pendent. They  had  spent  the  money,  and  they  had  it,  and  were  going  to  keep 
it,  and  they  didn't  bother  much  about  furnishing  proof.  In  fact,  a  large  part 
of  the  time  I  spent  in  auditing  was  submitting  to  them  these  vouchers,  giving 
them  a  first  and  a  second  chance  to  explain  the  expenditure,  and  they  would 
come  liack  with  a  stereotyped  reply — they  had  an  electric  typewriter  tn)iug 
them  out  by  the  thousand,  I  guess,  simply  saying  that  they  were  certified  by 
their  accredited  representative,  and  that  is  about  all  there  was  to  it.  We 
had  taken  them  under  second  consideration,  and  then  they  were  submit- 

123  te<l  again  for  a  further  chance  after  we  had  suspended  them.     So  that 
a  vast  amount  of  correspondence  and  bills  went  back  and  forth  resulting 

in  delay  mostly.    That  is  about  all  that  was  accomplished  for  a  long  time. 
Mr.  Anderson.  That  is  all. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3407 

Mr.  Caknduff.  As  an  expert  public  accountant,  would  you  say  that  this 
du  Pout  transaction  was  audited? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  No,  because  unless  completed,  an  audit  is  not  made.  That  is 
the  way  I  consider  it. 

General  Williams.  Well,  the  85  percent  that  you  spoke  of — I  think  you  testi- 
fied that  that  was  entirely  satisfactory,  did  you  notV 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Well,  it  was.  We  made  our  suspensions,  but  those  suspen- 
sions were  subsequently  approved,  and  the  records  we  made  of  suspensions 
were  confused  on  the  books,  and  were  subsequently  approved.  We  could  not 
go  back  to  the  records  that  I  had  made  and  pick  out  those  suspensions  very 
well  again.  The  way  the  records  were  handled  it  would  be  very  difficult  to 
pick  up  those  suspensions.  There  were  prepared  specially  ruled  sheets  to  treat 
each  voucher.  We  did  not  care  so  much  for  the  contractor's  book  records. 
We  treated  each  voucher  with  the  best  evidence  we  had,  or  the  expenditure, 
and  passed  upon  individual  vouchers,  and  on  these  sheets  were  recorded  the 
action  taken,  and  here  they  were  suspended,  or  they  were  approved,  or  there 
was  another  column  where  they  were  placed  to  go  back  to  the  contractor  again 
to  furnish  additional  evidence  of  the  propriety  or  the  necessity  of  whatever 
we  required.     ,But  subsequently   those  columns  were   shifted  back   into 

124  the  mass  again,  and  it  would  be  very  difficult  to  determine  which  items 
we  originally  suspended.     But  those  sheets  and  books  that  we  had  ma<le 

up  would  have  told  the  complete  story,  and  we  would  have  had  a  history  of 
every  voucher,  and  the  action  taken  when  it  came  down  to  that  final  settlement. 

The  Chairman.  What  happened  to  those  sheets? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  I  don't  know. 

The  Chairman.  They  are  not  in  the  records? 

Mr.  Youmans.  They  were  left  in  the  office  when  I  came  away,  but  they 
were  not  of  nmch  use,  because  of  the  subsequent  action  in  distributing  these 
suspended  items  amongst  them.  I  suppose  they  stand  practically  100  percent 
proven,  nearly  so,  anyway. 

The  Chairman.  Are  they  still  in  existence? 

Mr.  I'ouMANS.  I  don't  know. 

Mr.  Anderson.  You  mean  the  items  which  were  suspended  were  afterwards 
put  on  those  sheets,  so  that  they  can  be  now  satisfactorily  identified? 

Mr.  YouMANs.  They  were  mixed  back  into  the  approved  items.  They  were 
changed.  They  were  subsequently  approved,  those  that  we  originally  suspended. 
But  those  items  of  nondelivery  of  material  were  approved,  and  that  pay  roll 
that  we  had  suspended  for  duplicate  and  erroneous  payments,  was  approved, 
and  all  those  items  were  changed  on  the  record  that  we  had  made. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Do  you  think  that  the  du  Pont  Company  owes  the  United 
States  any  money  now? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Well,  I  know  they  have  some  unexpended  funds  that  they 
have  not  even  credited  to  themselves  yet. 

125  Mr.  Anderson.  W'ell,  I  mean  in  addition  to  the  comparatively  small 
balance  that  they  admit?    I  mean  after  your  study  of  the  subject,  after 

the  time  that  you  liave  given  to  it,  do  you  think  the  du  Pont  Company  owes 
the  United  States  any  money? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Yes ;  I  do. 

Mr.  Anderson.  How  much? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  Oh,  that  is  hard  to  say.  They  owe  more — well,  that  de- 
pends on  interpretation,  too — than  the  balance  that  they  show,  because  they 
have  been  paying  ofiicials  of  the  company  all  during  these  years,  salaries  to 
employees  that  have  been  preparing  their  case  and  protecting  the  contractors' 
interests.  Those  salaries  have  all  been  charged  to  the  Government,  and  I  dare 
.say  that  they  have  reimbui'sed  themselves  for  all  those  funds  that  they  have 
spent. 

^Ir.  Anderson.  Do  you  think  that  if  this  thing  were  reopened  that  the  Gov- 
ernment of  the  United  States  could  recover  any  substantial  amount  from  the 
du  Pont  Company? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  That  would  depend  upon  the  interpretation  of  the  contract 
and  support  that  would  be  given  the  suspensions  made. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now,  I  am  going  to  ask  you  another  question  which  is  not 
evidence,  but  I  want  to  get  your  point  of  view.  If  you  had  to  determine  this 
question  would  you  undertake  an  audit,  a  complete  audit  of  the  du  Pont  Com- 
pany's account,  such  as  you  say  should  have  been  made,  at  a  cost  of  $300,01)0 


3408  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

or  $400,000  by  the  Government  on  the  chance  of  what  it  could  set  back  as 
the  result  of  that  audit? 

126  Mr.  YouMANs.  It  depends  on  how  well  it  would  be  supported,  the  audit. 
Mr.  Andekson.  Well,  you  mean  supported  how? 

Mr.  YouMANS.  The  suspensions  that  would  be  made — the  interpretation  of 
the  contract.  If  that  contract  is  as  the  du  Fonts  claim — that  they  are  en- 
titled to  all  expenditures  of  every  character  and  nature,  there  would  not  be 
much  use  of  making  the  audit  in  the  first  place. 

General  Williams.  Who  has  the  authority  to  determine  the  interpretation? 

Mr.  Youmans.  The  du  Fonts  claim  that  they  have. 

General  Williams.  I  had  never  that. 

Mr.  Youmans.  They  insist  that  they  have  the  sole  right  to  determine  the 
propriety  and  necessity  of  all  expenditures. 

General  Williams.  Well,  why  do  they  come  to  the  Assistant  Secretary  of 
War  and  bother  him  then? 

(The  question  was  not  answered.) 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now,  you  have  been  studying  this  thing,  and  did  study  it 
for  a  number  of  years.  If  you  had  to  decide  the  question  right  now  as  to  what 
the  Government  ought  to  do — it  may  not  be  a  fair  question  to  you.  and  you  do 
not  have  to  answer  it- — if  you  had  to  decide  the  question  as  to  what  the  Gov- 
ernment ought  to  dO'  in  the  light  of  the  circumstances  as  they  now  exist, 
what  would  you  do  about  it?  I  know  that  is  not  legal,  and  probably  it  is  not 
fair. 

Mr.   Youmans.  It  is  too  one-sided,  because  those  in  authority  might  have 

different  opinions  on  the  same  subject  from  what  I  might  have.     But  if  mv 

interpretation  of  that  contract  was  supported  in  any  great  degree  it  would 

127  be  very  profitible  for  the  Government  to  undertake  a  reaudit  and  attempt 
to  recover  the  excessive  expenditures. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Do  you  think  there  was  any  fraud,  material  fraud,  in 
the  conduct  of  those  transactions  on  the  part  of  the  du  Font  Company,  or  any 
representative  of  the  du  Pont  Company?  Did  you  see  any  evidence  that 
made  you  think  that? 

Mr.  Youmans.  No  conclusive  evidence.  There  are  a  good  many  lines  that 
suggested  themselves  as  possibilities,  but  they  were  never  followed  up. 

Mr.  Andeeson.  Anything  else? 

Colonel  HuxL.  Take  your  written  report  here  that  I  showed  you  a  minute 
ago.  Isn't  that  all  a  matter  of  record,  as  to  exactly  what  is  on  each  schedule 
there?     Couldn't  you  tell  exactly  what  is  in  dispute? 

Mr.  Youmans.  I  could  on  that  small  contract,  because  that  is  something  that 
was  practically  completed,  and  it  is  so  comparatively  small,  you  know,  not  being 
even — well,  about  one  percent  maybe — or  five  percent  of  what  the  Old  Hickory 
is.  Why,  that  could  be  very  easily  dug  out  and  handled  and  disposed  of  very 
quickly,  because  it  is  very  small. 

Colonel  Hull.  It  is  complete,  isn't  it?  You  turned  it  in  to  me  as  a  complete 
piece  of  work? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Well,  with  the  exceptions  that  I  have  mentioned  in  it. 

Mr.  Anderson.  That  is  the  Seven  Fines,  isn't  it? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes. 

Colonel  Hull.  That  we  worked  on  before. 

Mr.  Youmans.  But  at  the  same  time  those  suspensions  that  I  made  there 
were  not  supported,  and  were  not  approved.  The  whole  thing  would  have  to  be 
changed  again. 

128  Colonel  Hull.  But  I  mean  on  appeal  to  the  Secretary  of  War  he  did 
not  agree  with  your  idea  of  what  constituted  cost.     He  did  not  agree 

with  your  views  as  to  how  the  contract  should  be  inteipreted? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Anything  else,  Mr.  Caniduff,  that  you  want  to  present? 

Mr.  Carnduef.  I  have  two  other  witnesses  whose  testimony  is  short.  I 
ft-ould  like  very  much  to  got  them  in  tonight  and  let  them  go  home. 

Colonel  Hull.  I  would  like  to  ask  Major  Guise  one  thing. 

Mr.  Cahnduff.  Certainly.  Is  there  any  objection  to  the  other  witnesses  com- 
ing in  at  this  time? 

Mr.  Anderson.  No  ;  not  at  all. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  ^\•ould  like  to  present  to  the  Board  also  the  two  representa- 
tives of  the  Department  of  Justice,  Mr.  Towler  and  Mr.  Cunningham. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Before  you  leave,  with  the  consent  of  the  chairman,  I  will 
state,  Mr.  Youmans,  that  the  committee  determined  this  morning  that  whatever 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  3409 

took  place  in  this  room  was  confidential,  as  though  in  a  grand  jury  room.  In 
other  words,  we  want  to  protect  tlie  men  that  come  in  here  and  tell  the  truths 
without  any  discussion  on  the  outside. 

Mr.  YoxjMANs  It  is  confidential  as  far  as  I  am  concerned.  What  I  have 
told  you,  and  what  you  have  asked  me  will  be  confidential  as  tar  as  I  am  con- 
cerned, but  you  can  tell  the  world. 

Mr.  Andeirson.  But  at  the  same  time  we  want  to  observe  that  I'ule,  because 
then  men  can  talk  more  freely. 

129  I  might  ask  you  one  more  question,  Mr.  Youmans.     Why  was  it  you 
did  not  report  those  facts  that  you  reported  to  the  Comptroller  General 

to  the  Secretary  of  War  or  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War?  That  may  be 
embarrassing,  but  I  would  like  you  to  answer  it  if  you  can. 

Mr.  Youmans.  Why,  I  didn't  think  I  could  get  to  him  except  through  chan- 
nels.    I  know  it  wouldn't  get  very  far  on  its  way. 

Ml'.  Andekson.  Water  didn't  run  up  hill  very  fast,  is  that  the  idea? 

Mr.  Youmans.  So  I  just  issued  a  warning,  that  is  all.  I  didn't  criticize  any- 
body at  all,  and  I  explained  in  the  report  that  I  just  wanted  to  get  some 
information  to  him.     That  is  all  that  happened. 

Major  BooTON,  I  would  like  to  ask  him  one  question  before  he  gets  off,  if 
I  may. 

Mr.  Andeeson.  Yes. 

Major  BooTON.  You  spoke  about  the  procedure  being  changed  when  you  were 
informed  that  a  combined  settlement  would  he  made,  or  a  lump-sum  settlement 
that  you  spoke  of.     What  was  the  nature  of  that  change  in  procedure? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Discontinuation  in  preparation  of  those  summaries. 

Major  Booton.  What  difference  did  that  make  in  the  papers  that  were  pre- 
pared?   What  particular  papers  were  omitted,  or  what  change  was  there  in 
the  review  of  the  accounts  as  the  result  of  that? 
Mr.  Youmans.  I  don't  just  get  you  on  that. 

130  Major  Booton.  Well,  were  the  subvouchers ;  that  is,  were  the  primary 
expenditures  of  du  Pouts  still  checked  under  that  procedure? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Yes;  that  part  of  it  had  not  been  changed  at  all. 

Major  Booton.  In  other  words,  you  verified  all  du  Pont  expenditures? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Well,  up  to  that  period.  AVhat  happened  after  that  I  don't 
know. 

Major  Booton.  Well,  I  mean  after  that  order  was  given  you  didn't  make  any 
change  as  to  vertifj'ing  du  Pont's  expenditures? 

Mr.  Youmans.  No. 

Major  Booton.  What  were  the  summaries  themselves? 

Mr.  Youmans.  What  were  they? 

I\Iajor  Booton.  Yes;  what  would  you  put  on  them? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Why,  really  a  summary  of  detailed  expenditures  prepared  on 
the  regular  ordnance  forms.  Usually  presented  to  the  disbursing  oflicer  for 
payment.  The  payments  were  made  on  those  forms.  And  they  were  printed 
for  that  purpose,  for  those  war  contracts,  in  the  Ordnance  Department,  and  all 
the  payments  and  disbursements  that  I  know  of  were  made  on  those  summaries. 

Major  Booton.  Might  you  call  those  summaries  an  abstract  of  the  individual 
du  Pont  vouchers?     Or  subvouchers? 

Mr,  Youmans.  They  were  more  like  a  summary  or  list  of  du  Pont  vouchers. 

General  W^illiams.  There  was  nothing  original  in  those  summaries,  was 
there? 

Mr.  Youmans.  No  ;  I  think  the  vouchers  themselves  were  supposed  to 

131  support  them.    They  didn't  go  with  them  many  times,  because  they  were 
the  contractor's  records,  but  it  was  intended  to  originally  support  them 

with  the  paid  vouchers. 

Major  Booton.  Well,  then,  what  was  actually  omitted  then  was  a  certain 
form,  either  prescribed  by  the  Ordnance  Department  or  the  Treasury  Depart- 
ment— I  don't  know  which — I  guess  the  Treasury  Department — which  normally 
went  as  a  support  to  the  voucher  itself? 

Mr.  Youmans.  Well,  they  are  the  form  on  which  the  payment  was  usually 
made. 

Major  Booton.  Yes.  Did  it  make  any  actual  difference  in  the  amount  paid 
the  du  Pont  Company? 

Mr.  Youmans.  It  didn't  make  any  difference  with  the  amount.  They  were 
simply  placed  to  their  credit.     They  had  already  received  payment. 

Major  Booton.  Did  it  make  any  difference  in  the  check  that  the  Treasurer- 
could  give  to  those  vouchers? 


3410  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Ml-.  TouMANs.  Why  no.  He  could  pay  them  on  any  form  that  he  liked,  but 
the  discontinuation  in  preparation  of  those,  confirmed  the  report  that  came  to 
jue  tliat  a  lump-sum  award  was  to  be  made,  as  it  was  expressed  to  me,  that 
a  settlement  was  to  be  made. 

Maj<:r  liooToN.  Do  you  know  why  the  making  of  those  summaries  was 
stopped  V 

Mr.  Yoi'iiANs.  No. 

Major  BooTON.  I  don't  think  of  anything  else. 

Mr.  Andee.soN.  Thank  you  very  much. 
(^Vihless  excused.) 

132  Mr.  Oarnduff.  I  would  like  to  introduce  as  a  witness,  Mr.  Chairman, 
Mr.  Peebles,  who  succeeded  Major  Guise. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Is  Major  Guise  coming  back? 

Mr.  Caendtjff.  He  has  gone  for  the  afternoon.  I  think  he  will  be  back  to- 
morrow.   I  told  him  to  come  back  tomorrow. 

STATEMENT  OF  J.  R.  PEEBLES,  HADDONFIELD,  N.  J. 

Mr.  C.'.RNDUFr.  Mr.  Peebles,  your  name  is  J.  R.  Peebles  I  believe,  Haddon 
Plouse,  iladdonfleld.  New  Jersey,  formerly  contracting  officer  of  the  du  Pont 
engineering  contracts,  and  you  succeeded  Major  Guise  as  contracting  officer, 
I  believe? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Yes,  sir ;  that  is  correct. 

Mr.  Caenduff.  Mr.  Peebles,  I  have  here  a  copy  of  a  letter  which  I  desire  to 
place  in  evidence,  reading  as  follows : 

"  December  13,  1921. 
^'  Suliject :  Elimination  of  detailed  summaries. 

■'As  a  result  of  conferences  held  in  Washington,  December  10th,  1921,  you  are 
hereby  directed  to  discontinue  preparation  of  detailed  summaries. 

"  It  has  been  decided  the  only  information  necessary  is  the  voucher  numljer 
and  amount,  which  will  permit  tying  up  the  charges  with  the  contract  and  the 
contractor's  books." 

This  was  evidently  handed  to  Mr.  Kileen,  with  a  copy  to  you.  I  will  ask  you 
if  you  received  such  instructions? 

Mr.  Anderson.  Who  is  it  signed  by? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  "  R.  R.  FaiT,  special  representative  of  the  Assistant  Secretary 
ot  War." 

Mr.  Peebiles.  Yes,  sir ;  I  have  recollection  of  that. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Did  you  receive  such  instructions? 

133  Mr.  Peebles.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  What  was  the  effect  of  such  instructions? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Well,  it  was  simply  an  indication  to  me  that  they  were  changing 
the  manner  in  which  the  accounts  were  to  be  handled  to  completion.  Hereto- 
fore they  had  been  complying  with  the  ordnance  regulations  in  so  far  as  sub- 
mitting summaries  with  vouchers.  That  was  being  discontinued,  which  to  me 
simply  meant  that  they  were  changing  the  plan  on  which  the  settlement  of 
this  contract  was  to  be  made. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  And  after  the  receipt  of  such  instructions  vouchers  would  be 
merely  listed  and  would  not  be  audited? 

Mr.  Peebles.  I  would  not  say  not  audited.  They  would  be  listed,  but  not 
on  the  formal  summary  as  required  by  the  auditor. 

General  Willla.ms.  Would  they  or  would  they  not  be  audited? 

Mr.  Peebles.  They  would  be  audited  within  the  instructions  which  we  had 
covering  specific  cases. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Will  you  state  briefly  to  the  committee  your  account  of  the 
accounting  of  the  du  Pont  engineering  contract  during  your  service  as  con- 
tracting officer,  calling  attention  to  anything  you  thought  was  erroneous  or 
should  be  investigated  at  this  time. 

Mr.  Peebles.  When  I  was  appointed  as  contracting  officer  I  was  given  to 
understand  that  it  was  the  intent  to  conduct  what  we  recognized  as  a  War 
Department  audit ;  that  is,  such  an  audit  as  would  be  acceptable  to  the  Comp- 
troller.    We  were  having  considerable   trouble  to   get   the  contractors' 

134  representatives  to  appreciate  our  position  and  accept  any  decisions  that 
were   made.     We   were   accomplishing   nothing.     And   by   permission    of 

Colonel  King,  who  was  then  the  chief  of  the  administrative  section  under  the 
Chief  of  Ordnance,  I  sulunitted  a  trial  voucher  of  various  kinds  that  was  the 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  3411 

subject  of  dispute  between  our  department  and  the  contractor,  through  chan- 
nels to  the  Comptroller's  office  for  a  decision.  And  all  of  those  vouchers,  to 
the  best  of  my  recollection,  were  suspended  by  the  Comptroller  for  reasons  as 
set  forth  in  our  report  that  was  attached  to  each  summary  as  it  went  forward. 

Subsequently  when  the  hearings  in  connection  with  these  various  matters- 
were  being  had,  and  decisions  rendered,  vouchers  that  had  previously  been 
suspended  by  the  Comptroller  were  put  through — we  made  copies  of  such  vouch- 
ers and  put  them  through  accounts  as  being  approved  under  the  decisions  that 
were  made  subsequent  to  the  time  that  they  were  presented.  Of  course  all 
this  has  happened  quite  a  while  ago,  and  I  am  giving  you  the  best  of  my 
recollection.  There  is  a  lot  of  it  that  is  very  hazy.  In  these  vouchers  were 
vouchers  for  payment  of  bonuses  to  men  when  they  left  the  service  of  the  con- 
tractor on  Government  work.  The  total  of  those  bonuses,  as  I  recall  it,  would 
be  about  a  quarter  of  a  million  dollars.  That  was  one  of  the  sets  of  suspensions 
that  we  had  made. 

Others  were  vouchers  for   travel   expense,   moving  expense,    that   were   for 

varied  amounts,  and  in  favor  of  simply  some  man's  name;  no  position  being 

given;  and  in  the  case  of  travel,  no  reason  for  making  his  travel,  and  the  expense 

report  itself  was  simply  a  statement  of  expense,  and  not  supported  in 

135  any  way  by  an  receipt  indicating  that  that  money  had  been  expendetl  for 
the  purpose  as  set  forth  on  the  face  of  this  expense  voucher. 

Another  item  that  was  in  those  vouchers  was  the  question  of  material  paid 
for,  the  receipt  of  which  had  not  been  certified  by  a  proper  representative  of 
either  the  Stores  Department  or  the  proper  Government  agency  that  'was 
authorized  to  certify  to  receipt  of  materials. 

Mr.  Caknduff.  Approximately  w^hat  was  the  amount  of  these  material 
vouchers  ? 

Mr.  Pkebles.  I  could  not  say,  sir.  They  were  simply  submitted  as  samples 
of  the  jirevailing  vouchers. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Do  you  know  what  became  of  this  account?  Do  you  know 
how  it  was  finally  settled? 

Mr.  Peebles.  No,  sir.  I  left  the  du  Pont  worlc  in  May  of  last  year,  and  I 
understood  that  the  work  was  not  finished  until  about  August  or  September, 
I  am  not  clear  as  to  that. 

Mr.  Caenduff.  How  long  were  you  employed  on  the  du  Pont  work,  Mr. 
Peebles? 

Mr.  Peebles.  I  entered  the  service  of  the  Ordnance  Department  on  April  the 
9th,  1920,  as  property  auditor,  and  I  served  under  Major  Guise  until  Jaiaiary 
1921,  when  I  was  appointed  contracting  oflieer. 

Mr.  Caknduff.  From  your  experience  on  this  contract  do  you  think  the  du 
Pont  Engineering  Company  owes  the  United  States  any  money? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Well,  that  is  a  rather  difficult  question  to  answer,  because  my 

point  of  view  is  probably   different  from   the  legal  point   of  view.     I   would 

say  that  there  was  money  expended  on  this  contract,  in  my  judgment^ 

136  that  did  not  reflect  proportionately  to  the  benefit  of  the  United  States 
Government. 

Mr.  Caenduff.  Can  you  state  any  approximate  amount  in  your  opinion  that  is 
due? 

Mr.  Peebles.  No,  sir ;  I  would  not  like  to  state  a  figure  at  this  time. 

Mr.  Caknduff.  Is  there  anything  you  can  add  that  will  throw  any  light  on 
this  matter,  or  assist  us  in  surveying? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Well,  it  seems  to  me  that  had  this  contract  been  audited  to  the 
completion,  as  originally  proposed,  the  contractor  would  then  have  been  com- 
pelled to  produce  substantiating  evidence  that  was  satisfactory  to  the  Comp- 
troller, and  would  have  then  put  the  Government  in  position  to  better  detei'mine 
from  the  absolute  facts  to  hand  as  to  whether  or  not  such  charges  were  applica- 
ble to  the  contract. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  You  commenced  such  audit? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Why  was  it  stopped? 

Mr.  Peebles.  It  was  stopped,  to  the  best  of  my  recollection,  that  detailed  audit, 
about  August  of  1921,  I  take  it. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  said,  why?     I  am  glad  to  get  when.     Who  stopped  it? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Why,  Major  Farr  reported  at  Philadephia  with  instructions  to 
take  charge  of  the  work,  sir. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Do  you  know  why  it  was  stopped? 


3412  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Peebles.  No,  sir ;  I  don't  know  anything  about  it. 

Mr.  Cai:nduff.  Have  you  anything  to  ask,  Colonel? 

137  Colonel  Huix.  Yes ;  I  have  got  a  few  questions.     When  you  took  charge 
of  the  work  following  Major  Guise,  were  there  any  instructions  limiting 

the  scope  of  your  inquiry,  Mr,  Peebles? 

Mr.  Peebles.  No,  sir. 

Colonel  Hull.  You  were  perfectly  free  to  go  into  any  subject  for  investigation 
or  scrutiny  that  you  though  would  save  money  to  the  Government? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Only  insofar  as  conducting  the  audit  was  concerned.  We  were 
not  authorized  to  go  outside — for  instance,  if  it  might  appear  to  us  to  be  a  case  of 
profiteering,  or  something  of  that  kind,  we  were  not  supposed  to  touch  that. 

Colonel  Hull.  What  do  you  mean  by  that?  Explain  to  me  what  you  mean  by 
that? 

Mr.  Peebles.  By  profiteering? 

Colonel  Hull.  Yes. 

Mr.  Peebles.  If  there  was  an  indication  that  a  vendor  liad  charged  the  Gov- 
ernment, through  the  contractor,  more  for  an  article  than  he  was  charging  to  a 
private  individual,  it  would  appear  that  the  private  individual  was  being  given 
the  benefit  of  his  prices,  and  not  the  Government. 

Colonel  Hull.  Who  gave  you  those  instructions  not  to  go  into  that  feature? 

Mr.  Peebles.  It  came  from  the  ofiice  of  the  Chief  of  Ordnance,  sir.  I  don't 
remember  now  who  signed  the  letter. 

Colonel  Hull.  Was  it  in  writing? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Yes,  sir. 

Colonel  Hull.  What  other  luies?  Then  you  eliminated  looking  into  any 
question  of  prices? 

138  Mr.  Peebles.  Practically  so;  yes,  sir. 

Colonel  Hull.  Did  you  have  any  information  that  the  prices  were  in- 
>correct  in  any  of  these  vouchers? 

Mr.  Peebles.  There  was  one  particular  instance  arose  that  rather  led  us  to 
believe  that  there  were  some  differences  there  in  the  commercial  and  the  Gov- 
ernment prices.  That  is  what  raised  the  question.  And  we  were  told  that  that 
was  without  our  province,  and  not  to  touch  it  at  that  time. 

Colonel  Hull.  You  think  that  those  were  in  writing? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Yes,  sir ;  that  is  my  recollection. 

Colonel  Hull.  What  other  instructions  limiting  the  scope  of  your  inquiry,  if 
any? 

Mr.  Peebles.  I  don't  recall  any  now. 

Colonel  Hull.  What  instructions  did  Major  Farr  bring  up  in  August  of  1921 
that  limited  the  scope  of  your  inquiry? 

Mr.  Peebles.  I  don't  know,  sir,  that  he  had.     He  had  instructions 

Colonel  Hull.  What  did  he  give  you  that  limited  the  scope  of  your  inquiry? 

Mr.  Peebles.  He  had  instructions  to  take  over  the  charge  of  the  work,  and  to 
do  anything  that  he  saw  fit  in  connection  with  the  completion. 

Colonel  Hull.  Yes ;  but  I  mean  did  he  give  you  any  instructions  limiting  the 
scope  of  your  inquiry  at  that  time? 

Mr.  Peebles.  It  came  up  from  case  to  case,  and  he  didn't  present  us  anything 
at  the  time  that  would  interfere  with  that  in  any  way.  But  as  these  different 
occasions  arose,  why,  naturally,  the  matter  was  referred  to  him  for  his  action. 

Colonel  Huix.  And  were  those  instructions  that  he  gave  you  oral  or  in 
writing? 

139  Mr.  Peebles.  In  writing,  sir. 

Colonel  Hull.  So  that  they  are  all  a  matter  of  record? 

Mr.  Peebles.  They  are  all  a  matter  of  record ;  yes,  sir. 

Colonel  Hull.  And  the  grounds  on  which  you  were  acting  are  all  a  matter 
of  record,  too,  are  they  not? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Yes,  sir. 

Colonel  Hull.  So  that  the  entire  matter  there  is  one  easy  to  determine  from 
the  record  itself? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Absolutely  everything  is  a  matter  of  record,  sir. 

Colonel  Hull.  And  in  a  great  many  of  these  transactions  there  were  a  great 
many  divergencies  of  opinion? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Absolutely;  it  didn't  make  anybody  wrong,  but  it  was  a  differ- 
ence of  opinion. 

Colonel  Hull.  Now,  those  instructions  which  were  read  at  the  commence- 
ment, will  you  give  me  the  date  again,  those  instructions  of  Major  Farr  on 
that  little  paper? 

Mr.  Peebles.  December  the  13th,  1921. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3413 

Colonel  Hull.  And  Mr.  Youmans  resigned  in  November  of  1921,  did  lie  notV 

Mr.  PeeblBvS.  That  is  my  recollection.  I  am  not  clear  as  to  the  date.  It 
was  alon.ii'  nliout  that  time. 

Colonel  Hull.  When  lie  said  a  few  minutes  ago  that  one  of  the  jirounds  of 
his  resignation  was  those  instructions,  lie  was  mistaken,  was  he,  if  those  instruc- 
tions were  not  given  until  later,  in  December  1921? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Colonel  Hull,  if  you  please,  I  don't  think  it  is  fair  to  inter- 
r(igate  this  witness  on  his  own  knowledge  as  to  what  is  in  Mr.  Youmans'  or 
Major  Guise's  mind. 

140  Colonel  Hull.  I  will  withdraw  the  question,  but  I  want  to  get  it  on 
record. 

Mr.  Carndxjff.  He  has  no  knowledge. 

Colonel  Hull.  I  say,  I  withdraw  it.  I  can  put  it  on  record  in  a  minute 
or  so. 

Mr.  Andekson.  Anything  else? 

The  Chairman.  In  what  way  did  this  change  of  instructions  limit  the 
inquiry,  Mr.  Peebles? 

Mr.  I'EEnLES.  Well,  there  were  so  many  different  angles  to  th.at  matter  that 
tl'.at  is  a  rather  difficult  question  to  handle.  As  far  as  I  could  observe,  the 
attorneys  had  determined  in  their  mind  wliat  could  or  could  not  be  substan- 
tiated, whereas  from  our  point  of  view  we  were  tied  up  l)y  what  we  recognized 
to  be  the  known  requirements  of  the  Comptroller.  That  is  what  we  were 
working  on.  An  attempt  to  complete  the  audit  as  we  knew  would  he  required 
by  him  before  he  would  accept  and  finally  credit  the  advances. 

Colonel  HuTX.  Mr.  Peebles,  glance  at  your  report  there  on  Seven  Pines, 
which  was  the  first  case — was  Seven  Pines  or  Pendleton  the  first  case  that  was 
completed? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Seven  Pines,  sir. 

Colonel  Hull.  There  is  a  report  covering  all  the  suspensions  and  olijections 
that  the  accountants,  and  yourself,  as  supervisor,  could  present  to  the  Govern- 
ment to  charge  back  against  the  du  Ponts? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Yes,  sir. 

Colonel  Hull.  There  is  nothing  in  there  in  regard  to  prices ;  no  reservation 

that  there  was  any  intimation  that  tlie  prices  had  not  been  checked.     So   I 

was  wondering  vrhether  the  prices  entered  into  your  mind  at  that  time,  or 

141  where  these  instructions  came? 

Mr.  PEEffiLES.  They  entered  into  our  minds  insofar  as  checking  the 
invoice  or  the  public  voucher  against  the  purchase  requisition. 

Colonel  Hull.  Y'ou  stated  all  the  principles  under  which  your  audit  and 
examination  were  made  though  in  that  paper,  and  do  not  make  any  reservation 
as  to  not  going  into  prices. 

Mr.  Peebles.  Inasmuch  as  the  majority  'of  the  material  prices  had  been  fixed 
by  the  Washington  department  we  did  not  go  into  the  detail  of  the  prices, 
provided  the  price  on  the  voucher  or  the  invoice  agreed  with  the  purchase 
requisition,  but  we  didn't  go  behind  that.  Colonel. 

Colonel  Hull.  But  you  say  that  that  report  is  absolutely  incorrect  because 
you  had  not  gone  into  prices? 

Mr.  PBE33LES.  I  wouldn't  take  it  so,  because  we  didn't  consider  that  our  work 
should  carry  us  back  to  the  base  of  all  prices.  We  were  not  equipped,  nor  were 
we  instructed  to  check  all  prices.  We  had  no  price  lists.  We  didn't  have  the 
finding  of  the  price-fixing  commission.  The  only  thing  that  we  did  have  was 
the  purchase  requisition  which  stipulated  the  price.  Unless  such  prices  as  in 
the  Old  Hickory  contract,  on  some  of  the  component  materials,  were  stipulated 
in  the  contract.    Then,  naturally,  we  checked  all  prices  against  the  contract. 

Colonel  Hull.  You  checked  back  on  that? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Against  the  contract. 

Colonel  Hitll.  Now,  you  checked  over  all  the  shavings  and  linters,  didn't  you? 
Mr.  Peebles.  Yes. 

142  Cidonel  Hull.  You  went  over  every  item  of  that,  didn't  you? 
Mr.  Peebles.  Yes. 

Colonel  Hull.  Checked  it  back  and  forth  and  determined  that  there  had  been 
an  overcharge  of  a  certain  amount  on  that? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Yes,  sir. 

Colonel  Huix.  And  that  was  settled  by  du  Pont  acquiescing  in  your  figures? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Not  entirely,  sir.  The  question  of  the  delivery  of  that  stuff 
came  up  later,  and  I  don't  know  how  it  was  settled,  but  they  delivered  a  check, 
one  for  .$150,000,  as  I   rememljer  it,  and  the  other  for  $19,000,   on  shavings. 


3414  MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 

That  was  the  first  check  that  was  made,  and  afterwards  they  accepted  an 
overcharge  on  the  linters,  but  they  did  not  deliver  a  check  for  it.  They  simply 
took  it  into  their  accounts. 

Colonel  Hull.  And  acquiesced  in  the  accounting? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Yes. 

Colonel  Hull.  Would  you  say  that  if  we  would  go  back  and  re-audit  the 
linters  and  cotton  by  weight  and  everything,  that  we  would  be  apt  to  recover 
any  tiling? 

Mr.  Pi33nLES.  On  shavings  and  linters? 

Colonel  Hull.  Yes. 

Mr.  Peebles.  No,  sir. 

Colonel  Hull.  What  percentage  of  accounting  and  investigation  would  you 
say  has  been  made  on  cotton  litners  and  shavings?  As  complete  as  you  know 
how  to  make  it? 

Mr.  Peebles.  I  would  say  so,  sir.  We  checked  the  railroad  weights  as  cer- 
tified to  by  the  Southern  Weighing  &  Inspection  Bureau,  and  we  checked  the 
price.     We  checked  the  warehouse ;  we  checked  everything  that  we  were 

143  in  position  to  check. 

Colonel  HtJLL.  That  checking  was  all  made  in  cooperation  with  Mr. 
Youmans?     Your  entire  force  was  all  working  on  it? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Yes. 

CoU)nel  Hull.  Did  you  do  that  with  any  other  ingredient? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Only  those  materials  that  were  stipulated  in  the  contract.  As 
I  recall  it  there  was  sulphur  and  soda  and  shavings  and  linters.  I  think  that 
was  the 

General  Willl\ms.  Alcohol?     Did  you  check  alcohol? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Oh,  alcohol ;  yes,  sir. 

Colonel  Hull.  And  a  similar  check  was  made  on  those? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Yes,  sir. 

Colonel  Hull.  The  linters,  were  they  billed  as  an  arbitrary,  with  an  under- 
standing that  they  were  to  be  rechecked  afterwards,  or  did  you  check  those 
up  just  in  current  work? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Checked  it  up  in  the  current  work. 

Colonel  Hull.  There  wasn't  a  stipulation  of  an  arbitrary  for  the  purpose  of 
accounting? 

Mr.  Peebles.  No,  sir. 

Mr.  Andebson.  Were  the  prices  fixed  on  any  materials  for  construction? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Not  in  the  contracts ;  no,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  So  you  didn't  check  prices  on  construction? 

Mr.  Peebles.  No,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Mr.  Peebles,  you  are  not  connected  with  the  Government  now, 
are  you? 

Mr.  Peebles.  No,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  am  going  to  ask  y^u  a  question  which  is  probably 

144  not  within  the  scope  of  our  examination.     You  don't  have  to  answer  it 
if  you  don't  want  to,  of  course.     You  have  made  a  study  of  this  situa- 
tion for  how  long? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Well.  I  was  in  the  Government  service  for  5  years,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Well,  I  mean  on  this  particular  matter. 

Mr.  Peebles.  Since  1920;  the  early  spring  of  1920. 

Mr.  Andeeson.  Well,  as  a  citizen  of  the  United  States,  and  a  man  that  is 
familiar  with  the  facts  as  you  can  be  from  that  study,  do  you  know  of  any 
circumstances  in  connection  with  the  performance  of  this  conti'act  or  these 
accounts  which  in  your  judgment  would  justify  a  re-audit  of  this  whole  matter 
at  a  cost  of  several  hundred  thousand  dollars  t*!  the  Government  of  the  United 
States? 

Mr.  Peebles.  That  is  a  rather  large  order.  Colonel. 

Mr.  Anderson.  It  is  a  large  question,  but  I  would  like,  if  you  are  willing  to 
give  it  to  us.  to  give  your  fiank  view  of  it,  and  your  reasims  for  it.  if  yon 
think  it  should  ht"  done.  That  is  the  best  way  to  get  at  it.  We  don't  have  to 
accept  your  view.  l)ut  I  think  it  would  be  good  if  you  would  give  it. 

Mr.  Peebles.  Oh,  I  understand,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  We  would  like  to  have  you  give  it. 

Ml-.  Peebles.  There  are  some  things  in  this  contract  that  in  my  opinion  are 
absolutely  unfair  and  out  of  all  ordei-.  One  of  them  is  the  bonus  that  I 
referred  to  awhile  ago.    The  idea  of  giving  out  good  United  States  money  to 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3415 

some  iiKui,  when  he  finished  maybe  2  months'  work,  because  he  was  a  good 

Tellow,  did  his  work  all  right,  but  he  was  paid  a  good  salary  for  doing  that 

work — I  say  he  is  not  entitled  to  any  Government  money  in  addition  to 

145  his  regular  monthly  pay,  because  the  Government  got  no  returns  on  that 
stuff  at  all. 

There  is  another  item,  that,  while  it  was  a  matter  of  contract,  I  felt  was 
inifair,  and  that  was  the  fee  that  was  paid  to  Mason  &  Hanger. 

Mr.  Andeieson.  Do  you  think  that  the  fee  paid  them  was  excessive? 

Mr.  PEEB03S.  Absolutely. 

Mr.  ANDEiiiSON.  It  has  been  suggested  to  me  in  some  connection  that  it  was 
erroneous ;  in  other  words,  that  it  was  a  million  dollars  and  something,  when 
it  should  have  been  only  $205,000'.     Did  you  look  into  this  question? 

Mr.  Peeibles.  I  would  like  to  put  this  to  you,  if  you  please. 

Mr.  Anderson.  All  right. 

Mr.  Pee'bles.  To  the  best  of  my  recollection,  when  the  original  agency  con- 
tract was  made  by  the  du  Pont  people,  which  they  subsequently  took  violent 
exception  to,  it  called  for  the  construction  at  Old  Hickory — I  am  simply  giving 
you  this  from  my  memory ;  I  am  not  clear  as  to  this^ 

Mr.  Andeeson.  Go  ahead ;  that  is  all  right. 

iNIr.  Peebles  (continuing).  It  called  for  the  construction  of  five  units  of  the 
powder  plant.  As  soon  as  this  contract  was  made  the  du  Pont  people  made  a 
contract  with  Mason  &  Hanger  to  do  the  necessary  work  in  connection  with  this 
plant,  insofar  as  I  believe  roads,  sewers,  general  railroad  constiaiction  was 
concerned,  and  if  I  remember  correctly  the  fee  under  that  original  contract  was 
five  percent  on  the  gross.  When  the  agency  contract  was  done  away  v^ith 
and  the  new  contract  was  made  it  increased  the  units  from  five  to  nine — 

146  practically  double.     They  made  a  new  contract  with  the  Mason  &  Hanger 
people,  five  percent,  double  the  amount  of  work,  practically,  and  yet  the 

fee  was  the  same.  It  is  not  reasonable,  in  my  judgment.  I  would  like  to  state 
this  to  you  for  what  it  is  worth.  I  understand  that  Colonel  Shell)y,  who  was 
formerly  connected  with  the  construction  division,  had  had  conversation  with 
Mr.  Harry  Hanger,  of  Mason  &  Hanger  Company,  indirectly  in  connection  with 
this  contract,  and  that  he  told  Colonel  Shelby,  if  I  have  been  correctly  in- 
formed— this  is  all  hearsay. 

Mr.  Andekson.  I  understand. 

air.  Peebles.  That  he  would  be  satisfied  to  take  this  contract  oil  the  same 
basis  that  the  construction  division  contracts  were  made.  The  fees  of  the  con- 
struction division  contracts  were  on  a  graduated  scale,  with  a  maximum  of 
.$250,000,  which  covered  about  ten  million  dollars'  worth  of  work.  In  our  fig- 
uring on  this  Mason  &  Hanger  contract,  we  took  the  position  that  they  were 
not  entitled  to  more  than  two  maximum  construction  contracts  as  under  the 
construction  division.  AVhile  it  was  stipulated  in  the  contract,  our  position  was 
that  that  contract  was  unfair.  And  instead  of  being  entitled  to  five  percent  on 
the  gross  of  all  that  work  they  were  not  entitled  to  more  than  $500,000,  which 
would  be  two  maxinnim  construction  division  contracts. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Well,  now,  before  you  leave  Mason  &  Hanger,  I  want  you  to 
go  on  with  other  items  that  you  think  ought  to  be  investigated,  because  you  are 
helping  us — helping  me  at  least.  Before  you  leave  the  Mason  »&  Hanger  Com- 
pany I  want  you  to  tell  me,  if  you  can  recall,  how"  much  were  the  fees  of 

147  the  iMasou  &  Hanger  Company  all  together? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Well,  I  don't  know  exactly.  I  did  not  see  the  final  fig- 
ures, but  my  recollection  was  it  was  about  $1,200,000;  something  in  that 
neighl)orhood. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Did  Mason  &  Hanger  have  a  large  organization  that  they  had 
to  pay  out  of  that? 

yiv.  Peebles.  They  had  a  large  organization ;  yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Did  they  pay  the  cost  of  it  or  did  the  Government? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Well,  it  was  handled,  as  I  recall  it,  the  same  as  all  other  con- 
tracting firms ;  and  if  they  sustained  any  expense,  why,  they  were  innuediately 
reimbui-sed  by  the  prime  contractor,  who  in  tui"u  was  reimbursed  by  the  Gov- 
ernment. 

Mr.  Anderson.  What  did  they  get  the  million  dollars  for? 

IMr.  Peebles.  Well,  that  was  five  percent  on 

Mr.   Anderson.  Profit? 

IMr.  Peebles.  Yes ;  on  twenty-odd  million  dollars. 

Mr.  Anderson.  That  was  the  net  profit  to  them? 


3416  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Peebles,  Yes,  sir. 

Mv.  ANDEa?soN.  That  was  after  paying  all  the  overhead  and  everything,  was 
it,  in  connection  with  this  contract? 

ftlr.  Pee,blbs.  Yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  The  Government  paid  all  that? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Yes,  sii-. 

Mr.  AxDEiRsoN.  Of  coui'se,  as  you  say.  that  was  a  matter  of  contract;  and 
while  it  may  be  unfair,  it  may  be  the  Government  cannot  get  by  with  it,  and 
we  will  have  to  take  it. 
Mr.  Peebles.  Yes. 

148  Mr.  Andekson.  Now,  are  there  any  other  points  that  you  think  should 
be  subject  of  inquiry  or  audit  in  this  matter? 

M.  Peebles.  Well,  of  course  one  large  item  of  expense  which  I  took  serious 
objection  to  was  the  traveling  expense  and  the  transportation  of  household 
goods.  Now,  the  majority  of  those  expense  vouchers  were  not  supported  in 
any  way,  and  quite  a  number  of  expense  vouchers  that  are  in  existence  simply 
show  that  a  certain  man,  whose  position  is  not  given  to  indicate  that  he  was 
an  employee,  or  his  number,  or  anything  else,  was  advanced  $200  for  traveling 
expenses.  And  he  made  no  report.  Now  that  voucher  would  be  put  through 
for  reimbursement  by  the  Government.  I  took  exceptions  to  these  travel 
vouchers,  because  they  were  not  supported  within  reason  by  receipts,  and  the 
contractor  absolutely  refused  to  make  an  affidavit  that  to  the  best  of  his  knowl- 
edge and  belief  this  money  was  expended  for  the  purpose  outlined.  He  abso- 
lutely refused  to  do  that. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now  as  to  the  bonus,  you  think  there  should  be  an  investi- 
gation, and  as  to  travel  allowance,  you  think  there  should  be  investigation 
and  audit,  or  reinvestigation? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  As  to  the  Mason  &  Hanger  fees,  that  is  a  matter  that  was 
covered  by  contract? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  And  as  concluded  by  the  contract,  of  course,  is  not  open  to 
further  inquiry. 

Mr.  Peebles.  Yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  And  then  what  other  items  do  you  think  we  should  make 

149  a  careful  investigation  of,  if  you  can  think  of  any  now? 

Mr.  Peebles.  This  is  such  a  varied  contract  that  it  is  awful  hard  to 
light  on  any  one  thing.  And,  of  course,  I  am  awfully  rusty  on  it.  I  have  been 
out  of  touch  with  it  so  long. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now  would  you  do  this,  Mr.  Peebles.  You  are  familiar  with 
the  contract.  Would  you  take  a  cop.y  of  it  tonight  and  run  over  it  and  see  if 
you  can  refresh  your  memory  with  anything  else?  Here  is  our  position — with 
the  permission  of  the  Board — we  want  to  do  what  is  right  here  to  protect  the 
Government  and  the  people  of  the  United  States,  and  also  the  du  Pont  Com- 
pany ;  we  want  to  do  the  fair  thing  to  them,  to  be  absolutely  fair  to  everybody. 
If  there  is  anything  here  that  ought  to  be  investigated  or  reaudited  then  we 
want  to  know  it  so  we  can  recommend  to  the  proper  officers  of  the  Govern- 
ment that  it  can  be  done,  and  closed.  If  there  is  nothing  here,  if  there  are 
things  that  do  not  require  reaudit,  we  do  not  want  to  put  the  people  of  the 
United  States  to  the  expense  of  reudit  unneoessarily.  Taxes  are  heavy  enough 
anyway.     Now  if  you  can  help  us  on  that  it  would  be  a  real  help. 

Mr.  Peebles.  What  my  judgment,  compared  to  you  legal  gentlemen,  is  worth, 
I  am  in  doubt,  because  we  don't  see  it  from  the  same  angle. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Well,  we  would  like  to  have  it  anyway.  It  might  be  that  we 
might  reach  the  conclusion  that  legally  we  cannot  do  what  you  suggest  because 
we  are  stopped  by  the  law.  But  anyway,  we  would  have  the  benefit  of  your 
suggestion. 

150  Mr.  Peebles.  These  items  that  I  have  mentioned  are  items  that  are 
very  large,  and  not  at  all  scattered.     They  can  be  easily  concentrated 

upon. 

Mr.  Anderson.  You  will  obviously  agree  wi^^h  us  that  (he  Government  ought 
not  to  spend  three  or  four  hundred  thousand  dollars  reauditing  all  of  those 
supply  accounts  that  have  been  audited.     A  reaudit  might  be  a  waste  of  money. 

Mr.  Peebles.  Yes. 

Mr.  Andkkson.  But  yet  the  Government  might  reaudit  certain  specific  mat- 
ters. If  you  think  there  are  some  perhaps  that  are  subject  to  change  by  reaudit 
we  might  do  that  at  small  expense. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3417 

Colonel  Hull.  ]May  I  clarify  tlie  matter? 

Mr.  Anderson.  Yes. 

Colonel  Hull.  On  the  matter  of  bonuses,  all  the  bonus  vouchers  have  been 
segregated  out;  so  far  as  audit  is  concerned,  that  has  all  been  done,  has  it  not? 

Mr.  Peeblks.  Yes. 

Colonel  Hull.  The  audit  has  all  been  done  on  the  Mason  »&  Hanger  subcon- 
tract? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Yes. 

Colonel  Hull.  We  knovs^  hovp  much  is  in  dispute  there? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Yes. 

Colonel  Hull.  The  auditing  has  been  done  on  all  the  traveling  expenses? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Y'es. 

Colonel  Hull.  We  know  what  vouchers  have  been  expended? 
Mr.  Peebles.  Yes. 

151  Colonel  Hull.  Isn't  it  true  that  on  all  that  you  have  mentioned  the 
auditing  has  been  done,  and  it  is  simply  a  question  as  to  determining  as 

to  whether  these  items  are  or  are  not  allowable  under  the  terms  of  the  contract 
as  a  legal  matter? 

Mr.  Pejebles.  The  auditing  has  been  done  insofar  as  proving  that  the  con- 
tractor expended  that  money. 

Colonel  HuLii.  We  know  in  the  vouchers. 

Mr.  Peiebles.  Yes. 

Colonel  Hull.  You  know  why. 

Mr.  Peebles.  Yes. 

Colonel  Hull.  They  have  all  been  segregated;  the  audit  has  all  been  done.. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  understand  you  take  the  position  that  the  travel  vouchers, 
are  not  adequately  supported  for  allowance? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Therefore  the  audit  on  that  is  an  audit  for  inadequate  support.. 

Mr.  Peebles.  Yes. 

Mr.  Andei!Son.  I  want  to  get  your  position  on  the  record.  I  do  not  express, 
any  opinion  as  to  what  conclusion  we  will  reach,  but  I  want  to  get  your  posi- 
tion, if  you  please. 

Mr.  Peebles.  My  proposition  was  that  it  was  a  case  of  getting  substantiation 
for  the  payment  of  the  travel.  If  they  delivered  $200  to  John  Jones  to  make- 
a  certain  trip,  and  John  Jones  went  out  on  a  drunk,  that  was  of  no  use  to  the 
country. 

Mr.  Anderson.  And  you  have  no  evidence  that  he  expended  the  money. 

152  Mr.  Pbkbles.  No  evidence  what  his  business  was,  or  what  he  did,  or 
anything  about  it. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  see. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Would  you  call  it  an  audit  unless  it  was  substantiated  as 
to  what  the  money  was  expended  for? 

Mr.  Peebles.  I  wouldn't  call  it  an  audit  in  the  strict  sense  of  the  word.  I. 
would  call  it  a  substantiation  of  the  payment  of  the  money  by  the  company 
to  some  unknown  individual. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Then  when  you  answered  Colonel  Hull  as  to  certain  items 
being  audited  you  meant  that  they  had  been  segregated,  but  you  did  not  mean 
tliat  they  had  been  substantiated? 

Mr.  Peebles.  No  ;  I  think  I  made  that  clear,  Mnjor. 

General  Williams.  Well,  does  not  an  audit  really  determine  whether  or  not 
a  thing  is  substantiated? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Yes,  sir;  that  is  a  true  audit. 

General  Williams.  Then,  if  the  evidence  is  not  there,  would  a  new  audit 
produce  any  new  evidence,  do  you  suppose? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  If  tlie  evidence  was  not  produced,  the  du  Pont  Company  would 
be  lijible  for  that  amount  of  money. 

General  Williams.  Well,  but  that  is  all  up  now,  isn't  it? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  No. 

Colonel  Huix.  Yes;  as  far  as  two  years  audit  can  support  it. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  It  has  not  been  supported.  It  has  been  segregated,  gentlemen. 
The  items  have  been  put  in  there,  but  not  supported.     If  you  will  allow 

153  me  to  ask  the  witness  a  hypothetical  question,  I  think  I  can  clear  tliis  up. 

With  regard  to  the  cotton  linters.  Mr.  Peebles,  you  stated  that  n;>  fur- 
ther action,  in  your  opinion,  would  result  in  benefit  to  the  United  states.  I  ask 
you,  if  tlie  I'uited  States  shculd  be  able  to  prove  that  five  months  after  tbe 
completion  of  production  at  this  Old  Hickory   plant  twenty-nine  carloads  of 


3418  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

cotton  were  shipped  in  to  the  plant  and  charged  to  construction,  from  Hope- 
well, Virginia,  would  such  fact  have  been  ascertained  by  you  in  your  so-called 
"  audit "? 

Mr.  Peeblks.  If  it  was  a  matter  of  record  receipt  in  the  plant,  yes.  Of  course, 
we  were  not  at  the  plant.  All  we  had  was  the  records  of  the  vouchers  for  the 
stuff  we  paid  for. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  If  it  were  Ave  months  after? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Yes ;  any  expense  in  connection  with  that.  If  we  paid  any 
money  out  for  this  stuff  it  would  have  been  developed  that  that  material 
reached  the  plant.  If  tliis  stuff  was  not  paid  for  we  would  know  nothing  about 
it  and  would  have  no  record  of  it. 

Mr.  McLane.  If  it  was  received  five  months  after  you  were  there,  you  would 
have  no  record  of  it,  would  you? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Oh,  after  I  was  there ;  oh,  no. 

Mr.  McLane.  No. 

Mr.  Peebles.  I  tliought  you  meant  after  the  suspension  of  tliis  construction 
contract. 

Mr.  McLane.  If  it  \\as  received  five  months  after  the  armistice  was  signed, 
you  would  have  no  record  of  it? 

Mr.  Peebles.  If  we  paid  for  it,  we  would  have  a  record  of  it. 

154  Mr.  McLane.  You  couldn't  tell  anytliing  except  it  was  received  at  the 
plant,  could  you? 

Mr.  Peebles.  No,  sir. 

Mr.  McLane.  If  this  was  not  received  at  the  plant  but  was  delivered  five 
months  after  the  signing  of  the  armistice,  you  would  not  have  looked  at  it, 
would  you?    You  would  not  have  audited  it? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Not  unless  it  became  a  matter  of  payment  we  would  not  have 
been  concerned  in  it  at  all. 

Mr.  McLane.  And  the  same  would  be  true  as  to  nitrates,  wouldn't  it? 

Mr.   PEEajLES.  Yes,    sir. 

Mr.  McLane.  The  same  would  be  true  as  to 

General  ^^'ILLIAMS  (interposing).  I  think  I  see  what  Mr.  McLane  is  after. 
Why,  nitrates  might  have  been  ordered  in  Chile,  say  five  days  before  the 
armistice,  for  the  use  at  that  plant,  and  might  not  have  been  delivered 
there  for  four  or  five  months  after  it  was  audited,  and  still  be  charged  against 
the  operation  of  the  plant.  It  would  have  to  be.  And,  likewise,  with  these 
linters.  It  is  entirely  probable.  I  should  say,  that  a  number  of  carloads 
were  delivered  in  there  for  months  after  the  operation  of  tlie  plant  ceased. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  The  linters  came  from  Hopewell,  General. 

Mr.  McLane.  They  came  from  the  company  itself,  direct. 

Colonel  HuLX.  But  if  we  paid  for  them 

Mr.  McLane  (interposing).  But  the  question  would  come  up:  How  would 
they  come  to  get  to  Hopewell  and  be  there  in  storage,  when  it  would  be  just 
as  well,  because  the  supply  of  linters  is  from  the  South? 

155  Mr.   Peebi^s.  It  occurs  to  me  that   in   the  operation   of  this   cotton 
matter  that  there  was  a  mix-up  of  linters  through  an  error  made  by  the    ' 

Buckeye  Cotton  Oil  Company,  who  afterwards  made  it  good.  They  shipped  : 
a  lot  of  linters  in  to  Hopewell  by  mistake,  instead  of  to  Old  Hickory,  and  i 
they  were  obliged  to  refund  the  freights  and  adjust  the  error,  or  whatever  it  : 
was.    I  don't  remember  just  tlie  details  at  this  time. 

Mr.   Carnduff.  Mr.   Peebles,   you   have  had   charge   of  a   number   of  large    ! 
operations  for  the  Government,  audits,  I  think? 

Mr.  Peebles.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Was  the  Old  Hickory  transaction  handled  in  the  same  way    > 
as  others?     Was  it  handled  the  same  way  as  you  handled  other  transactions?    J 

Mr.  Peebles.  No,  sir;  because  we  completed  the  audit  as  prescribed  by  the    j 
Comptroller.  \ 

Mr.  Carnduff.  For  instance,  the  Nordyke  &  Marmon  account,  was  it  handled   1 
the  same  way  as  that? 

Mr.  Peebles.  I  applied  what  I  knew  to  be  the  requirements  of  the  Treasury    I 
Department  in  conducting  that  audit. 

General   Williams.  What   are   the   differences    between    those   requirements,    .| 
and,   say.    your   method,    after   you    received    these   instructions   here?     First, 
may  I  ask :  Do  .vou  regard  tlie  instructions  contained  there  as  to  not  prepar- 
ing that  summary  to  accompany  the  voucher,  as  a  vital  matter? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3419 

Mr.  Peebles.  Why,  I  wouldn't  say  so,  General,  but  it  is  just  a  question  of 

what    the    various    governmental    departments    require.      Now,    the    Ordnance 

Department,   under   which   this   contract  was   made,    heretofore,   in   my 

156  experience,   required  a  summary.     Well,  a  summary  is  nothing  in  the 
world  hut  just  a  transcription  of  the  voucher  itself  to  accompany  the 

voucher. 

General  Williams.  There  is  no  new  evidence  on  the  summary,  is  there? 

Mr.  Peebues.  No,  sir. 

General  Williams.  No  original  evidence  on  the  summary? 

Mr.  Peebles.  The  only  thing  about  a  summary  is  that  it  bears  the  approval 
of  everybody  getting  a  dollar  a  day  and  up  on  the  face  of  it.  Whereas  on  the 
voucher   itself  there  is  no  provision  made  for  signatures. 

Mr.  A?.DERSON.  Will  Mr.  Peebles  be  here  tomorrow? 

Mr.  Carndutt.  Can  you  remain  over? 

Mr.   Peebles.  Yes. 

Mr.  Carnduit.  I  would  like  to  dispose  of  Mr.  Bowman,  whose  testimony 
will  not  take  more  than  ten  minutes,  and  let  him  get  away.  He  has  come  here 
at  a  considerable  sacrifice. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Try  to  do  it  in  ten  minutes.  If  you  can  think  of  any  other 
points,  Mr.  Peebles,  that  you  think  ought  to  be  included,  let  us  have  them. 

Mr.  Peebles.  It  is  a  big  order.  Colonel. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  know  it  is  a  big  order,  but  we  are  all  trying  very  hard 
to  get  the  "  straight "  of  this  thing. 

Mr.  Peebles.  Yes ;  and  I  don't  want  to  make  a  mistake  there.  I  don't  want 
to  recommend  something  that  won't  do  good. 

Mr.  Anderson.  You  are  quite  right,  and  we  are  all  sincerely  trying  to  get 
at  the  facts. 

Mr.  Peebles.  It  is  the  layman  against  you  legal  lights,  and  I  cannot  see  it 
In  the  legal  light. 

157  STATEMENT  OF  R.  E.  BOWMAN,  NATIONAL  "VILLAGE,  BOOTH'WYN,  PA. 

Mr.  Caunduft.  Your  name  is  R.  E.  Bowman,  address  237  Ridge  Road,  National 
Village,  Boothwyn.  Pennsylvania? 

Mr.  Bowman.  Yes. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Mr.  Bowman,  will  you  repeat,  briefly,  trying  to  make  your 
testimony  cover  about  five  minutes,  the  substance  of  what  you  told  us  in  Wash- 
ington last  November  when  you  testified  in  my  oflice  with  reference  to  the  Old 
Hickory  contract  at  Nashville,  Tennessee? 

Mr.  Bowman.  I  was  sent  to  the  Old  Hickory  plant  in  June  1920,  and  then 
later,  in  August  1920,  remaining  there  possibly  three  months  in  total.  And 
during  that  time  I  was  the  special  representative  of  Major  Guise,  and  in  charge 
of  the  essential  material  side  of  the  audit,  taking  up  the  materials  entering 
into  smokeless  powder,  and  used  there  at  the  plant.  For  a  while  the  work  on 
ray  end  was  held  up  until  the  i-ailroad  records  were  transcribed,  and  finally  we 
were  able  to  get  into  it. 

I  took  the  vouchers  and  classified  them  as  to  materials.  There  are  about 
38  main  materials  entering  into  smokeless  powder.  And  then  we  had  all  kinds 
of  miscellaneous  materials  from — well,  incidental  to  the  operation  of  the  plant. 
This  is  on  the  opei'ation  side,  and  not  on  construction  at  all.  Facings  sheets 
were  prepared  by  the  assistants  from  the  railroad  records.  The  voucher  was 
applied  to  the  railroad  record,  and  if  there  was  sufficient  evidence  that  the 
material  had  been  received,  the  facing  sheet  so  stated,  and  it  was  stamped 

158  and  approved  by  myself,  and  when  the  messenger  arrived  it  was  sent  in 
to  Philadelphia.     After  that  time  I  had  nothing  further  to  do  with  the 

vouchers. 

Mr.  Cabnduff.  Well,  what  did  you  find  there,  if  anything,  that  was  in  error 
or  incorrect,  if  there  was  anything  incorrect? 

Mr.  Bowman.  I  took  exception  to  certain  differences  in  freight  rates;  certain 
cases  where  discounts  for  prompt  payment  were  not  taken  advantage  of  by 
the  contractor,  and  a  few  miscellaneous  cases  that  do  not  occur  to  me  at  this 
time. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Tell  us  what  you  learned  about  the  receipt  cards  and  vouchers ; 
how  the  receipt  of  materials  was  checked,  if  it  was  checked? 

Mr.  Bowman.  There  wei-e  many  cases  where  the  only  receipt  we  had  was  the 
railroad  record,  and  that  we  took  as  authentic.  These  railroad  records  were 
8:3876— 35 — px  14 17 


3420  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

made  up  from  sources  not  in  any  way  related  to  plant  records.    They  were  taken 
from  the  records  in  the  railroad  offices  entirely. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Did  you  check  the  receipt  of  these  materials? 

Mr.  Bowman.  Against  the  railroad  record.  And  where  there  were  records 
in  the  contractor's  office  or  in  file  we  checked  against  those. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Dou  you  know  anything  about  the  so-called  "  fabrication  "  of 
receipt  cards? 

Mr.  Bowman.  I  saw  a  fabricated  voucher,  so-called  fabricated  vouchers 
there  at  the  plant. 

Mr.  OAENnuFF.  How  many  of  them? 

159  Mr.  Bowman.  I  couldn't  state  the  number,  but  a  good  many  of  them. 
General  Wiu^iams.  How  do  you  know  they  were  fabricated? 

Mr.  Bowman.  They  were  signed  by  clerks  there  in  the  office  who  were  not 
in  a  position  to  gO'  out  in  the  plant.  The  main  office  of  the  plant,  of  course, 
was  a  good  distance  from  either  gate  where  materials  would  enter,  or  from 
the  freight  office,  and  a  good  deal  of  material  was  coming  in  by  automobile 
and  truck  as  well,  coming  over  that  single  bridge  from  Nashville.  And  these 
clerks  in  the  office  were  in  no  position  to  check  that  authoritatively. 

Mr.  AndeesO'N.  Did  they  sign  these  records  or  receipts? 

Mr.  Bowman.  I  saw  receipts  signed  "  By  order  of  " — signed  by  a  certain  man, 
by  order  of  the  du  Pont  Company.  "  I  certify  that  this  material  has  been  re- 
ceived ",  and  signed  "  So-and-so,  by  order  of  the  du  Pont  Company  ",  or  the  du 
Pont  Engineering  Company. 

Mr.  Anderson.  And  that  person  who  signed  that  receipt  was  a  clerk  in  the 
oflSce? 

Mr.  Bowman.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Andeirson.  While  the  goods  were  delivered  down  some  distance  away? 

Mr.  Bowman.  May  have  been  delivered  some  distance  away,  and  never  came 
near  the  office  at  all.     Taken  into  remote  areas  of  the  plant. 

General  Williams.  Could  that  have  been  a  transcript  from  any  other  record? 

Mr.  Bowman.  I  can't  say.  There  might  have  been  in  some  cases.  But  there 
were  cases  where  these  vouchers  were  signed,  and  we  could  find  no  record 

160  on  the  plant,  or  in  NashviUe  at  all,  at  the  railroad  offices. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Of  the  goods  having  been  received?  Do  you  mean  rec- 
ords were  signed  for  goods  of  which  you  could  find  no  record  of  delivery  on  the 
part  of  the  Railway  Company? 

Mr.  Bowman.  I  think  so ;  yes.  I  would  have  to  see  individual  vouchers  and 
see  my  own  facing  sheets  before  I  would 

Mr.  Andeksoin  (interposing).  Testify  to  that  effect? 

Mr.  Bowman   (continuing).  Testify  to  that  entirely  and  clearly. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Anything  more? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  He  is  Mr.  McLane's  witness.  I  think  Mr.  McLane  has  more 
knowledge  of  him  than  I  have.     I  called  him  at  Mr.  McLane's  request, 

Mr,  McLanb.  That  is  all. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Thank  you,  sir. 

Colonel  Hull.  One  moment.  W^henever  you  found  any  irregularities  in  any 
voucher  you  say  you  put  a  facing  sheet  on  it? 

Mr.  Bowman.  Whenever  I  found  any  irregularity  in  any  voucher  I  put  a  fac- 
ing sheet  on  there  to  that  effect. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Did  you  allow  or  pass  any  of  those  accounts  or  vouchers  for 
material,  founded  upon  those  so-called  fabricated  vouchers? 

Mr.  Bowman.  No,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  You  rejected  them  in  every  instance? 
Mr.  Bowman.  I  did. 

161  Mr.  Anderson.  You  don't  know  what  finally  became  of  those? 
Mr.  Bowman.  No,  sir, 

Mr.  Anderson.  You  passed  them  through  to  Philadelphia  rejected? 

Mr.  Bowman.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  That  is  all, 

Mr.  McLanb.  Now  I  will  ask  you  if  there  were  not  three  men  kept  at  the  cen- 
tral office  whose  business  it  was  to  make  up  what  is  known  and  called  a  fabri- 
cated card,  a  checker's  card?  I  will  ask  you  if  Mr.  Ayers  was  not  one  of 
them? 

Mr.  Bowman.  One  man  that  I  remember  was  Russell  Brown. 

Mr.  McLanb.  Russell  Brown.     Now  what  was  his  duty,  as  you  remember? 

Mr.  Bowman.  I  think  he  was  one  of  the  clerks  there  in  the  office.  Just  how 
much  further  I  don't  know. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3421 

Mr.  MoLane.  Do  you  know  what  he  did?  And  wasn't  it  his  duty,  Russell 
Brown's  duty,  Ayers'  and  another  mau's  duty,  to  make  up  a  fabricated  card, 
checker's  card,  signing  it  just  as  you  stated?  And  later  on,  while  you  were 
there,  wasn't  that  force  increased? 

Mr.  Bowman.  Oh,  I  wasn't  there  while  those  cards  were  being  made  up.  I 
think  they  were  made  up  before  I  came.  I  didn't  get  in  there  until — I  didn't 
get  really  to  work  until  August  1920. 

Mr.  McLane.  Now  you  spoke  of  Russell  Brown.  AVhat  do  you  know  about 
what  Russell  did?  Did  you  learn  his  handwriting,  or  know  anything  that  you 
could  tell  definitely  to  this  committee? 

162  Mr.  Bowman.  I  simply  saw  vouchers  made  up  with  that  form,  and 
signed  with  his  name. 

Mr.  McLanb.  Yes. 

General  Williams.  Was  Mr.  Brown  employed  there  at  the  time  that  you  were 
there? 

Mr.  Bowman.  I  believe  he  was  still  in  the  employ  of  the  Engiceering  Com- 
pany ;  yes,  sir. 

General  Williams.  Well,  did  you  interview  him  and  ask  him  for  an  explana- 
tion of  this? 

Mr.  Bowman.  No  ;  my  work  did  not  bring  me  in  touch  with  him  at  all. 

General  Williams.  Yes.     You  inspected  these  vouchers,  did  you? 

Mi-.  Bowman.  Yes. 

General  Williams.  These  cards? 

Mr.  Bowman.  I  did  if  they  looked  bad. 

General  Williams.  And  there  was  a  man  within  reach  of  you,  and  you  didn't 
make  any  effort  to  find  out  from  him  what  they  were? 

Mr.  Bowman.  Well,  I  didn't  imderstand  that  that  was  strictly  my  province. 
Not  many  of  that  sort  of  vouchers  came  through  on  the  essential  materials,  as 
I  remember.  More  came  through  on  the  construction  side  than  on  the  essential 
material  side. 

General  Williams.  Yes ;  but  here  is  a  paper  presented  as  a  piece  of  evidence, 
signed  by  a  definite  man,  and  you  question  that  evidence,  you  question  the  cor- 
rectness of  that  piece  of  paper  as  evidence,  and  yet  you  do  not  question  the  man 
who  signed  the  paper. 

163  Mr.  Bowman.  That  was  probably  a  fault  on  my  part  in  not  going  after 
him. 

General  Williams.  That  is  all. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Let  me  see,  Mr.  Bowman,  if  I  cannot  draw  out  why  you 
committed  the  so-called  fault,  if  it  were  a  fault.  Was  it  not  your  understand- 
ing that  this  was  the  method  of  authenticating  receipts,  to  make  up  these  cards 
in  such  manner? 

Mr.  Bowman.  Well,  I  don't  believe  that  on  the  essential  material  end  of  it 
we  paid  much  attention  to  the  cards  at  all,  but  we  went  to  these  railroad 
records. 

Mr.  Caenduff.  Then  the  cards  were  immaterial  in  your  investigation? 

Mr.  Bowman.  They  were  not  material  there. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  And  therefore  you  disregarded  them? 

Mr.  Bowman.  Yes,  sir. 

General  Williams.  Why  are  they  presented  here  as  evidence  if  they  are  not 
material?  Why  are  you  presenting  this  fact  here  as  evidence  if  it  is 
immaterial? 

Mr.  Caenduff.  It  is  immaterial  as  to  the  scope  of  his  duties,  but  during 
his  duties  he  learned  of  this  irregularity  with  reference  to  the  construction 
work,  with  which  he  had  no  connection. 

Mr.  McLane.  I  believe  you  stated  that  you  found  some  vouchers  that  you 
could  not  find  the  railroad  records  supporting  them? 

Mr.  Bowman*.  Yes,  sir ;  at  the  time  I  closed  up  and  went  back  to  Philadelphia 
we  hadn't  found  a  record  of  some. 

Mr.  McLanb.  And  how  many  of  those,  and  what  would  they  amount 
1 164      to?    What  would  they  average?    What  would  the  purchase  price  on  an 
average  amount  to  of  the  component  part  that  you  handled   of  that 
product? 

Mr.  Bowman.  Well,  that  has  been  several  years  ago,  Mr.  McLane.  and  I 
don't  remember,  but  I  do  think  that  they  were  probably  small  vouchers.  That 
the  big  items  were  probably  checked  against  the  railroad  records,  and  these 
were  the  small  injacellaneous  vouchers,  most  of  them.     Not  full  carload  ship- 


3422  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

meuts.  Where  there  was  a  carload  shipment  I  think  we  could  get  a  pretty- 
good  record  on  it.     But  the  small  items  I  don't  think  that  we  did. 

Mr.  McLane.  That  is  all. 

(Witness  excused.) 

Mr.  Andeeson.  Gentlemen,  I  move  we  adjourn  until  tomorrow,  unless  these 
gentlemen  have  something  else? 

The  Chairman.  How  many  more  witnesses  will  there  be  here.  Major 
Carnduft? 

Mr.  Caendxjff.  Six  or  eight. 

(The  witness  was  excused  at  5:  20  p.  m.,  and  after  some  informal  discussion 
an  adjournment  was  taken  until  10 :  30  a.  m.  of  the  following  day.  Friday, 
May  11,  1923.) 


165  SECOND   DAY 

OLD  HICKORY  INVESTIGATION 

Friday,  May  11,  1923.     10 :  45  o'clock  A.  M. 

Room  3538,  Munitions  Building, 

Washington,  D.  C. 

Further  proceedings  had  and  testimony  taken  in  executive  session  before 
Subcommittee  on  Ordnance  Transaction  of  the  General  War  Transactions 
Board,  composed  of  the  following  members:  Honorable  Dwight  F.  Davis,  As- 
sistant Secretary  of  War,  chairman ;  Major  General  C.  C.  Williams,  Chief  of 
Ordnance;  Henry  W.  Anderson,  Esq.,  representing  the  Department  of  Justice. 

Present :  Colonel  J.  A.  Hull,  executive  officer  of  the  War  Transactions  Board ; 
Colonel  F.  W.  Coleman,  of  the  Finance  Department;  Arthur  Carnduff,  Esq., 
special  assistant  to  the  Attorney  General;  James  Cameron,  Esq..  Director  of 
Audit  of  the  Department  of  Justice ;  A.  V.  McLane,  Esq.,  United  States  district 
attorney,  Nashville,  Tenn. ;  Major  J.  C.  Booton,  Ordnance  Department.  United 
States  Army;  Major  P.  J.  O'Shaughnessy,  Ordnance  Department. 

166  Mr.  Carnduft.  Mr.  Chairman,  I  believe  it  was  desired  to  recall  Major 
Guise  for  examination  by  Colonel  Hull.    Major  Guise  is  here. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Very  well,  sir. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  With  your  i)ermission,  I  will  recall  Major  Guise. 

STATEMENT   OF  MR.  H.  B.   GUISE — Resumed 

Colonel  Hull  (handing  paper  to  the  witness).  Major,  do  you  recognize  that 
letter  in  any  way? 

Mr.  GuiSEJ.  Yes,  sir;  this  is  a  copy 

Colonel  Hull.  Will  you  please  read  it  to  the  reporter,  with  the  date  and 
•everytliing? 

Mr.  GriSE.  This  is  a  letter  from  the  chief  of  the  Philadelphia  district  ordnance 
office  to  the  supervisor  of  the  cost-accounting  branch  of  the  Philadelphia  district 
ordnance  office,  dated  October  4,  1919,  addressed  to  Mr.  W.  S.  Hall,  supervisor 
cost-accounting  branch,  subject:  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Company,  Old 
Hickory  plant  [reading]  : 

"  I  have  just  received  instructions  from  Mr.  Door,  Assistant  Director  of 
Munitions,  that  this  office  is  to  pursue  the  investigation  which  we  have  begun 
and  to  go  into  such  auditing  and  accounting  matters  concerning  the  contract  at 
this  point  as  we  may  deem  necessary  in  the  interest  of  the  Government. 

"  Please,  therefore,  proceed  with  your  investigations,  making  them  as 
107  complete  as  you  deem  necessary  for  the  Government's  best  interests,  and 
also  for  the  "proper  protection  of  this  office,  without,  however,  allowing 
the  incurring  of  an  expenditure  not  warranted  by  the  result  obtainable.  Put- 
ting it  in  another  way,  I  leave  it  to  your  good  judgment  to  determine  the  extent 
to  which  you  will  go  into  details  as  to  reaudits,  rechecking,  etc.  I  would  also 
appreciate  if  you  will  from  time  to  time  advise  me  the  progress  of  your  investi- 
gations, with  suggestions  of  what  action,  if  any,  shall  be  called  for  by  the 
Ordnance  Department  of  the  War  Department. 

"(Signed)     John  C.  Jones. 

"  Ordnance  District  Chief." 

Colonel  Hull.  You  testified  yesterday,  in  answer  to  questions  by  me,  that  as 
long  as  you  were  in  charge  of  the  work  you  had  discretion  to  go  into  any 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3423 

question  that  you  thought  advisable — with  the  exception  of  going  into  the  nitrate 
prices? 

Mr.  Guise.  Yes,  sir. 

Colonel  Hull.  There  was  testimony  given  that  you  issued  orders  that  in  no 
case  were  the  investigators  or  accountants  or  examiners  to  go  back  of  the  prices 
set  forth  in  the  voucher?    Is  that  true? 

Mr.  Guise.  That  was  to  be  done  later  and  was  not  to  be  examined  into  until 
the  determination  of  quantity  had  been  reached.  That  was  to  avoid  the  possi- 
bility of  delay  after  the  determination  of  the  quantity  of  components,  so  that 
further  analysis  could  be  made  in  relation  to  the  question  of  materials.  Cost 
then  would  be  examined  in  general  rather  than  in  detail,  and  compared 
IGS  with  tlie  price  fixed  by  the  agent  appointed  by  the  War  Industries  Board 
for  that  purpose. 

Colonel  Hull.  Suppose  you  ran  across  a  voucher  for  a  table  of  this  kind,  and 
it  struck  the  examiner  as  being  three  or  four  times  the  value.  Would  that  be 
passed  without  question,  or  would  there  be  a  note  made? 

Mr.  Guise.  There  would  be  a  note  made  and  attached,  sir. 

Colonel  Hull.  You  did  not  issue  any  instructions  that  they  were  to  be 
absolutely  passed  without  question? 

Mr.  Guise.  Not  at  all,  sir ;  not  on  the  question  of  cost.  As  I  stated  yesterday, 
the  prime  factor  that  we  were  after  at  the  time  was  the  determination  of 
quantity  rather  than  cost.  The  final  reviewal  of  cost  was  slowly  progressing, 
but  it  was  a  pertinent  fact  that  we  were  after,  to  enable  us  to  clear  up  the 
question  of  the  delivery  of  materials  to  the  plant. 

Colonel  Hull.  Asking  the  question  in  another  way :  Up  to  the  time  you  left 
the  work,  was  tliat  chart  that  was  given  to  you  by  Mr.  Jones  in  that  letter 
virtually  the  chart  by  which  you  were  sailing? 

Mr.  Guise.  Not  entirely.  I  had  been  instructed  in  several  other  different 
instances — I  think  there  are  copies  of  the  letters  in  here — with  regard  to  the 
care  necessary  in  conjunction  witli  the  audit ;  and  I  had  been  directed,  on 
consultation  with  the  legal  advisers  to  the  district  chief,  that  this  was  to  he  a 
definite  audit  and  check,  and  that  no  compromises  or  arrangements  could  be 
i-eached  with  the  contractor  until  that  was  finished,  that  being  the  method 

169  that  would  have  to  be  pursued  until  the  work  was  completed,  when  any 
disagreements  between  the  contractor  and  the  district  claims  board  or 

other  governmental  agency  woukl  be  taken  up. 

Colonel  Hull.  That  is  all  I  have  to  ask. 

General  Williams.  What  is  the  date  of  that  letter? 

Mr.  Guise.  The  letter  to  Mr.  Hall?    October  4,  1919. 

Mr.  Anderson.  There  has  been  a  good  deal  said  here  about  a  10-percent  audit. 
Do  you  know  anything  about  that? 

Mr.  Guise.  You  must  remember  that  the  only  thing  that  I  had  as  evidence 
in  relation  to  that  was  secured  through  the  efforts  of  myself  in  this  case,  plus 
additional  information  that  was  received  and  forwarded  through  the  Depart- 
ment of  Justice  and  through  Colonel  Neville,  I  believe,  to  the  district  chief,  and 
by  him  brought  to  my  attention. 

Mr.  Andeeson.  Let  me  make  my  trouble  clear ;  I  do  not  know  whether  you 
can  clear  it  up,  or  somebody  else.  There  has  been  more  or  less  suggestion  that 
there  was  originally  a  10-percent  audit,  and  then  a  complete  audit  was  started 
and  never  completed,  and  that  there  never  has  been  a  complete  audit.  Now, 
in  order  for  me  to  reach  a  conclusion  as  to  whether,  in  my  judgment,  a  complete 
audit  would  be  justified  in  this  case  I  would  like  to  know  just  what  auditing 
has  been  done  down  there. 

General  Williams.  And  I  would  like  to  make  an  additional  request  there, 
that  we  get  an  authoritative  definition  of  what  a  complete  audit  is. 

Mr.  Anderson.  If  we  can ;  yes,  sir.  I  want  to  know  what  auditing  has  been 
done  and  at  what  times,  and  whether  there  has  ever  been  a  complete  audit. 

170  General    Williams.  There   is   another   point   that    I    think    should   be 
brought  out.     This   10-percent  audit   was   during  the  construction   and 

operation  of  the  phmt.  I  would  like  to  have,  also,  brought  out  whether  or  not 
it  was  possible  or  practicable  at  that  time,  considering  the  circumstances,  to 
make  a  complete  audit.  Was  the  10-percent  audit  in  accordance  with,  say,  com- 
mercial practice,  or  was  it  something  that  was  justified  by  the  circumstances  at 
the  particular  time,  or  was  it  not  justified? 

Mr.  McLane.  I  would  like,  also,  to  have  brought  out  who  authorized  the  10- 
percent  audit,  in  order  that  we  may  find  out  from  the  proper  witness  why  the 
10-pereent  audit  was  authorized. 


3424  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Anderson.  Major  Guise,  you  have  heard  all  these  questions.  Can  you 
throw  any  light  on  that  situation? 

Mr.  Guise.  May  I  refresh  my  memory  to  some  extent? 

General  Williams.  I  am  willing  to  say  this :  I  think  that  under  the  contract, 
I  as  Chief  of  Ordnance  would  have  had  authority  to  direct  a  10-percent  audit. 
Furthermore,  I  will  say  that  under  the  circumstances — the  question  never  was 
brought  to  me,  but  under  the  circumstances,  had  it  been  brought  to  me,  I  would 
have  directed  such  an  audit. 

Mr.  McLane.  What  I  was  driving  at  is,  Who  did  direct  it? 

General  Williams.  I  will  admit  the  responsibility  for  directing  that  audit. 

Mr.  Guise.  The  only  information  we  have  as  to  orders,  or  that  I  secured  as 
to  orders 

Colonel  Hull.  Limit  that  to  the  time  of  operation. 

General  Williams.  Construction  and  operation. 

171  Mr.  Guise.  This  10  percent  that  has  been  referred  to  is  not  an  audit ; 
it  never  was  an  audit.    The  10-percent  method  referred  to  was  the  method 

used  in  checking  the  quantity  and  class  of  incoming  materials. 

Mr.  Anderson.  That  was  true  of  the  period  of  construction  and  operation? 

Mr.  Guise.  During  the  operation.  There  was  practically  no  check  ever  found 
on  the  operation  materials. 

Mr.  ANDEatsoN.  Just  a  minute.  Then  during  the  period  of  construction  and 
operation  there  was  what  we  might  call  a  ten-percent  check.  That  is,  one 
receipt  in  ten  would  be  checked  to  verify  its  correctness,  and  the  other  nine 
would  be  assumed  to  be  correct  on  the  basis  that  that  one  was  found  correct? 

INIr.  Guise.  This  was  the  governmental  check. 

Mr.  Anderson.  The  governmental  check.  Now,  then,  what  was  the  next 
audit? 

Mr.  Guise.  This  was  not  the  audit.  Do  not  get  "  audit  "  and  "  check  "  mixed. 
An  audit  is  an  entirely  different  thing  fi*om  a  check.  The  Army  inspector  of 
ordnance,  under  the  old  system  that  was  carried  along  to  some  extent  in  the 
new — although  we  were  relieved  to  some  extent  of  his  responsibility  for  prop- 
erty— was  the  representatives  in  the  field  and  had  to  assume  property  account- 
ability for  all  materials  received  and  paid  for  by  the  Government.  In  these 
cost-plus  contracts  the  miscellaneous  items  that  made  up  the  material  being 
manufactured  by  the  contractor  had  to  be  checked ;  the  actual  final  cost  of  the 
article  had  to  be  checked  in  under  the  same  method. 

172  The  Army  inspector  was  given  a  group  of  men- — sometimes  depending 
on    his   discretion,   and   generally   depending  on    how   far   he  made   his 

check,  more  than  anything  else — for  several  purposes ;  primarily,  we  may  say, 
so  far  as  incoming  materials  are  concerned,  to  check  against  the  quantity  and 
quality  received.  Secondarily,  to  check  against  processes  in  producing  the 
material.  Normally  it  was  expected  that  a  complete  check  would  be  made  on 
the  receipt  of  materials.  That  was  had;  there  was  no  reversal  that  I  know 
of  at  any  time  of  the  Ordnance  Department  regulations  in  that  direction.  Of 
course,  I  had  myself  about  eight  months  of  inspection  work,  and  during  that 
period  I  had  the  old-time  method,  and  I  had  the  old-t,ime  property  accounts. 
I  only  had  nine  all  told  to  take  care  of. 

In  this  case  the  evidence  that  it  was  possible  to  secure,  together  with  a  copy 
of  the  order  issued  by  Lieutenant  Foulke,  indicated  that  a  10-percent  check 
was  made  on  the  receipt  of  the  material.  That  is,  out  of,  we  will  say,  100 
vouchers,  10  vouchers  would  be  pulled  out  and  checked  up,  and  the  100  accepted 
as  being  correct  If  the  ten  were  correct. 

The  Chairman.  Was  that  the  customary  practice  in  the  case  of  a  large  con- 
tract of  this  sort  in  those  times,  or  was  that  special  in  this  particular  case? 

Mr.  Guise.  Well,  I  don't  know.  This  was  the  only  case  anyway  who'e  I 
definitely  came  in  touch  with  that  particular  practice.  As  I  stated,  in  my 
property  accounts  I  always  worked  on  the  old  method.  Even  over  jn  France 
I  used  the  old  system,  and  I  found  that  I  could  keep  things  clear,  and  my  ac- 
counts were  "  zeroed  "  even  overseas,  so  I  assumed  it  was  satisfactory 

173  for  me  to  do  it. 

In  this  particular  case  it  must  be  i-emembered  that  the  Army  inspector 
of  ordnance  at  the  Old  Hickory  smokeless-powder  plant  had,  in  proportion  to 
the  magnitude  of  the  task,  a  comparatively  limited  number  of  checkers. 

The  ('hairman.  That  is  what  I  was  wondering — whether  this  was  the  only 
practicable  thing  to  do  under  the  circumstances  or  whether  special  instructions 
were  issued  in   this  case. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3425 

Mr.  Guise.  Whether  the  Army  inspector  of  ordnance  with  the  proper  number 
of  inspectors  could  have  properly  handled  the  matter  or  not  is  another  question. 
Wliat  I  would  do  under  the  same  conditions  js  also  another  question  which 
does  not  cuter  into  this  matter.  The  du  Fonts  and  the  subcontractors  had 
about  400  checkers  in  the  field,  according  to  the  records,  so  far  as  we  could 
ascertain.  The  Army  inspector  had  about  76;  as  I  remember,  that  was  the 
number  stated  in  his  own  correspondence. 

Now,  with  7G  men  it  would  be  impossible — I  say  this  liased  on  my  own  ex- 
perience in  general.  It  would  be  impossible  for  him  to  make  even  a  real 
10-percent  check,  with  the  magnitude  of  the  operation.  If  the  men  had  been 
furnished  the  horses  and  could  have  gotten  around  all  over  the  place  rapidly — 
they  would  have  to  use  horses  in  a  groat  many  cases,  instead  of  automobiles— 
the  probabilities  are  that  witli  200  checkers  he  might  have  controlled  it  in 
general  fairly  well.     But  he  could  not  do  it  with  70  men. 

That  is  all  I  can  state  regarding  it.     There  is  not  any  question  of  an 

174  approximate  10-pereent  check  having  been  made.     That  was  what  was 
done  after  the  issue  of  this  order,  which  I  do  nor  believe  was  carried 

on  in  the  early  stages  of  the  contract. 

With  relation  to  that  it  must  be  remembered — you  will  understand,  this  is 
not  a  reflection  on  the  Ordnance  Department  in  general ;  it  may  be  somewhat 
of  a  reflection  on  the  man  who  was  in  the  held,  if  he  did  not  foward  this 
information  to  the  Ordnance  Department.  The  chief  clerk  in  the  office  of  the 
Army  inspector  of  ordnance  at  the  Old  Hickory  i)la]it  did  call  attention  to 
quite  a  number  of  discrepancies  that  had  occurred  with  relation  to  the  receipt 
of  material,  that  had  occurred  very  close  to  the  time  at  which  this  order 
for  a  10-percent  check  was  pronuilgated.  Now,  that  would,  ordinarily  speaking, 
render  any  officer  rather  cautidus  about  proceeding  with  anything  except,  as 
nearly  as  he  possibly  could,  a  full  check.  I  am  speaking  now,  of  course,  my 
own  judgment.    That  is  what  I  should  consider  necessary  to  do. 

General  Williams.  How  many  other  contracts  do  you  think  the  Ordnance 
Department  had  going  at  this  time? 

Mr.  GtnsE.  Oh,  they  had  an  enormous  number. 

General  Williams.  Yes ;  we  had  some  20.000  or  25,000  contracts  altogether. 

Mr.   GLasE.  Yes,  sir. 

General  Williams.  So  that  the  wdiole  attention  of  the  Ordnance  Depart- 
ment could  not  have  been  focussed  on  this  particular  contract. 

Mr.  Guise.  No;  that  is  certain.  General.     There  is  not  any  criticism  of  the 

Ordnance  Department   at   the  headquarters,   unless  officers  in   the   field   gave 

them   full   and   definite   information   regarding  matters   in    the  field — I 

175  mean  important  matters,  relative  to  either  production  or  other  matters— 
in  such  a  way  that  they  could  be  taken  care  of.  The  Ordnance  Depart- 
ment had  in  adjacent  territory  people  that  could  have  very  well  run  down 
to  Old  Hickory  and  conferred  relative  to  these  matters  that  they  were  given 
general  supervision  of 

General  Williams.  Yes;  I  understand. 

Mr.  Guise.  And  anything  that  was  neglected  by  him — tliat  is,  by  the  district 
officer  or  by  the  officer  in  the  field — could  never  be  considered  as  a'  reflection  on 
the  people  at  the  head.  An  officer's  business  in  the  field — that  is,  one  who  is 
isolated  and  has  practical  command  of  the  situation  in  the  field — is  to  keep 
his  superiors  thoroughly  posted  as  to  any  developments  that  he  thinks  are  out 
of  the  ordinary.  And  if  he  does  not  do  that,  while  it  might  be  considered, 
according  to  Army  regulations,  that  it  rested  on  the  others,  still  it  does  not 
rest  there.  It  rests  solely  on  the  man  that  is  responsible  for  the  withholding 
of  information. 

Mr.  AivDEKSO'N.  Major,  let  me  get  myself  clear  about  one  matter.  I  do  not 
know  anything  about  all  these  things.  The  10-percent  check  covered  the  period 
of  construction  and  operation? 

Mr.  Guise.  Just  let  me  get  that  firmly  settled.     The  only  tiling  that  I  know 

anything  about  with  reference  to  a  10  percent  check  was  on  construction.     I 

never  could  find  anything  relative  to  receipt  of  materials  on  oixn-ation.     There 

is  that  sharp  subdivision  right  there.     Materials  for  construction  we  could  find 

had  been  partially  checked,  so  far  as  records  that  were  available  to  us 

176  were  concerned ;  we  had  no  check  on  materials  for  operation.     I  do  not 
mean  every  item ;  I  am  speaking  in  general.     There  may  have  been  and 

undoubtedly  were  some  on  the  minor  invoices.     I  am  speaking  of  the  great 
bulk  of  expense  that  was  incurred.     We  were  trying  to  check  that  by  what 


3426  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

we  might  call  secondaiy  evidence — a  rather  round  about  way,  that  would,  how- 
ever, have  given  us  the  information  eventually. 

General  Williams.  Mr.  Peebles  yesterday  testified,  concerning  certain  of 
the  prime  raw  materials  of  manufacture,  that  an  entirely  satisfactory  audit 
was  made.  Now,  how  could  that  audit  have  been  made  had  there  not  been 
records  concerning  the  receipt  and  consumption  of  the  materials? 

Mr.  Guise.  Why,  I  cannot  be  responsible  for  anything  Mr.  Peebles  stated. 

General  Williams.  Then  you  and  Mr.  Peebles  are  directly  disagreeing  on 
that  particular  point? 

Mr.  Guise.  It  is  extremely  probable  that  we  would  be  if  he  said  an  entirely 
satisfactoiT  audit  was  made  on  operation. 

General  Williams.  I  did  not  say  operations ;  I  said  on  certain  raw  materials. 

Mr.  Guise.  Component  materials?  At  the  time  I  left  we  were  securing  sec- 
ondary evidence  with  relation  thereto,  and  it  may  be  that  they  did  secure  suffi- 
cient evidence  as  to  the  matter  of  shipments  so  that  it  was  accepted.  That  had 
not  been  completely  and  finally  secured,  or  anywhere  near  secured,  at  the  time 
I  left.  I  cannot  be  responsible  for  what  he  found  afterward.  What  I  was 
trying  to  do  was  to  get  the  total  amount  of  bulk  shipments  and  materials 

177  in  there. 

Ml".  Anderson.  Now,  with  an  understanding  of  what  is  meant  by  a 
check,  and  the  limits  fixed  so  far  as  your  knowledge  goes,  as  I  understand  it 
when  you  were  assigned  to  this  work — which  was  about  what  time,  Major? 

Mr.  Guise.  So  far  as  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  is  concerned,  about 
April  1,  1919. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Then  what  was  the  nature  of  the  audit  that  was  to  be 
made  under  your  direction,  when  you  went  into  the  work  in  April  1919? 

Mr.  Guise.  At  that  time  the  cost  accounting  branch  of  the  du  Pont  Engineering 
matters  was  under  the  Baltimore  district  office.  I  was  under  the  Philadelphia 
district  ordnance  office.  The  cost  accounting  branch  cooperated,  but  were  not, 
we  might  say,  extremely  cordial  in  relation  to  the  matter.  There  was  a  shai-p 
division  as  to  how  far  my  authority  would  carry  with  regard  to  thysm,  they 
being  under  an  entirely  different  supervision  than  I  was.  They  could  not  com- 
plete a  valid  public  voucher  without  my  certification ;  because  so  far  as  my  ap- 
pointment as  representative  of  the  contract  section  was  concerned,  that  came 
from  Washington,  and  there  was  no  other  person  present  in  that  section  to  act 
in  that  capacity.  And  in  other  ways  they  did  not  work  under  the  Philadelphia 
district  ordnance  office. 

I  inquired  of  them  as  to  whether  they  had  full  supporting  evidence  with 

relation  to  the  vouchers.     Proper  summaries  were  supplied  on  quite  a  number 

of  vouchers.     They  told  me  that  they  did  have,  and  there  were  quite  a 

178  number  of  vouchers  passed  through  that  were  properly  endorsed  on  the 
back,  so  far  as  could  be  told.     We  found  later  they  w^ere  endorsements 

in  red  ink,  and  cross-offs — Army  officers  in  the  field,  modifying  materially  the 
record  that  the  voucher  carried. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now,  let  me  see  if  I  can  get  in  your  mind  what  I  am  driving 
at.  You  went  there  in  April  1919,  and  the  letter  which  you  have  just  read  was 
in  October  1919.  Between  April  and  October  what  was  the  nature  of  your 
inquiry  or  audit,  or  whatever  you  Avould  call  it?  What  was  the  scope  and  extent 
of  it  in  those  six  months,  as  briefly  as  you  can  state  it? 

Mr.  Guise.  My  directions  were  to  concentrate.  At  the  beginning  I  had  Her- 
cules and  Atlas  claims.  I  threw  those  overboard.  I  do  not  mean  that  I  was 
overworked,  but  I  bad  more  than  I  could  reasonably  attend  to,  and  I  requested 
that  I  be  relieved  of  the  Hercules  and  Atlas  claims,  and  I  was,  after  about 
mid-year. 

I  concentrated  all  my  efforts  on  requesting  the  cost  accounting  branch  to 
proceed  with  their  work,  to  call  to  my  attention  anything  that  did  come  up. 
I  concenti-ated  my  efforts  almost  entirely,  until  late  in  the  summer  or  early 
fall  of  1919,  on  claims.  You  must  remember  that  we  had  a  very  large  number 
of  accountants  on  this  work,  and  that  the  expense  of  the  United  States  was 
far  greater  on  claims,  even  if  we  did  have  quite  a  number  of  accountants  on 
this  contract,  owing  to  the  enormous  mass  of  matter  it  was  necessary  to  review 
on  those  claims. 

To  illustrate  the  different  things  that  came  up,  and  to  show  you  that 

179  everything  was  not  perfectly  easy,  even  in  the  Department,  I  will  cite  one 
item.    We  had  variable  price  contracts  on  claims  that  must  be  settled 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3427 

and  could  be  settled  only  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  the  conti*act,  costs 
and  prices  being  fixed  in  such  a  manner  that  you  could  diminish  or  increase 
the  contractor's  profit.  To  establish  that  cost  I  set  up  a  certain  method  by 
which  it  could  be  determined. 

Here  were  certain  contracts  paralleling  each  other.  It  was  almost  impossible, 
according  to  the  du  Font's  idea,  for  those  to  be  audited.  I  simply  told  them, 
and  it  was  agreed  later  on — about  eight  months  later  on,  however — that  that 
should  be  divided  by  months,  and  the  cost  price  of  all  the  component  materials 
for  each  and  every  month  be  determined  under  the  provisions  in  the  various 
months.  That  went  into  effect  in  1920,  and  I  say  without  hesitation  it  must 
have  cost  a  considerable  amount  of  money.  The  other  way  it  was  impossible 
for  any  officer  of  the  United  States  to  criticize.  It  was  impossible  for  the 
du  Fonts  to  accept.  They  would  not  know  whetheV  it  was  right  or  wrong, 
and  it  certainly  would  have  been  impossible  for  the  Finance  officer  to  have  paid 
over  the  money. 

Now,  that  was  one  item,  and  it  was  important ;  but  the  decision  was  not 
with  me,  because  I  had  no  definite  or  transcendent  power  over  the  cost  account- 
ing branch.  They  opposed  this  method  of  accounting.  It  was  found  to  be  the 
only  way,  and  by  that  method  we  were  able  to  settle  practically  all  of  the 
smokeless  powder  contracts  that  were  entered  into  between  late  1917  and  the 
end  of  the  contracts. 

A  great  many  of  those  items  had  to  be  taken  up  in  that  way.     I  had 
ISO       to  go  to  Hopewell  to  review  niatters  pertaining  to  large  quantities,  mil- 
lions of  dollars  of  supplies,  and  look  over  the  condition  at  all  of  these 
points  where  they  had  claims — except,  I  believe,  at  Barksdale,  Wisconsin,  and 
possibly  some  Pacific  coast  points. 

Mr.  Anderson.  You  exercised  rather  a  general  jurisdiction  over  labor  in 
connection  with  the  settlement  of  claims  largely,  through  the  summer  of  1919? 

Mr.  Guisa.  Y'es,  sir ;  and  that  was  carried  along  more  or  less  all  the  way 
through  until  the  final  settlement  of  the  claims. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now,  then,  in  October  1919  there  were  instructions  given, 
which  you  have  read,  which  covered  a  broad  investigation  in  the  nature  of  a 
general  audit.  As  I  understand  it,  however,  you  did  not  personally  have  control 
of  the  audit  of  the  accounts? 

Mr.  Guise.  My  duties  were  primarily  to  determine — my  orders  were  practi- 
cally to  take  the  place,  so  far  as  I  could,  of  the  officer  that  was  in  the  field 
during  the  period,  as  to  the  determination  of  certain  things.  In  addition  to 
that,  contractual  questions  arising  were,  of  course,  discussed  with  various 
people — discussed  with  AVashington,  as  far  as  that  is  concerned. 

ilr.  Anderson.  Now  then,  during  that  period  from  April,  say,  to  October,  the 
co.st  accounting  was  going  on  in  the  Cost  Accounting  Department? 

Mr.  Guise.  Cost  accounting  was  going  on  in  exactly  the  same  manner  that 
it  had  during  the  entire  term  of  the  contract.     There  was  no  correction  made 
to  any  great  extent.     They  were  asked   as  to  the  supporting  evidence 
181      that  they  had  back  of  these  contracts. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Then  after  October,  when  the  general  scope  of  the 
investigation  was  bi'oadened  by  that  letter,  the  accounting  went  on  on  the 
basis  of  that  letter?     And  your  services  terminated  when? 

Mr.  Guise.  My  services  as  an  officer  terminated  November  30,  1920. 

Mr.  Anderson.  During  that  year,  Major,  was  there  a  general  audit  going  on 
up  to  the  time  you  left? 

Mr.  Guise.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  A  general  audit  of  the  whole  thing? 

Mr.  Guise.  There  was  a  definite  audit  being  made,  according  to  the  Ordnance 
Department,  Cost  Accounting  and  Finance  Division  regulations. 

Mr.  Anderson.  And  that  was  in  px'ogress  when  you  left? 

Mr.  Guise.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  This  is  the  first  time  I  have  ever  had  clearly  in  my  mind 
what  bad  been  done  in  this  case. 

Mr.  Guise.  My  instructions  were,  so  far  as  I  was  concerned,  to  proceed  to 
audit  this  contract  as  a  contract,  and  not  in  any  sense  of  the  word  as  a  claim. 
There  was  nothing  we  could  adjust ;  the  adjustment  would  have  to  be  made 
later  on  by  a  board.     Those  directions  were  definite  and  direct. 

Mr.  Anderson.  And  if  you  hesitated  about  anything  you  would  merely  put 
it  in  suspense? 


3428  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Guise.  Anything  that  was  put  in  su.spense  was  to  be  reviewed  later 
witli  all  the  elements  of  a  claim. 

The  Chairman.  If  we  assume  that  this  10-percent  check  was  insuflfi- 

182  cient  to  determine  the  actual  materials  that  were  received,  would  any 
irregularities  in  delivery  be  caught  up  by  this  audit  that  came  afterward? 

Mr.  Guise.  The  only  determination  that  you  could  make,  when  you  cannot 
get  from  the  contractor  the  necessary  evidence,  the  burden  of  proof  rests  on 
the  contractor,  not  on  the  United  States;  never. 

The  Chairman.  My  point  is  this.  You  have  got  to  show  during  the  audit 
that  the  materials  were  received.  The  audit  will  catch  that  up.  If  thej 
could  not  show  that,  then  that  item  would  be  put  in  the  suspended  list? 

Mr.  Guise.  Yes,  sir ;  it  would. 

The  Chairman.  So  that  if  a  complete  audit  were  made  all  of  those  different 
items  would  be  caught  up  at  that  time,  regardless  of  the  sufficiency  of  the 
10-percent  check? 

Mr.  Guise.  Yes,  sir.  The  point  is  that  so  far  as  bnlk  materials  were  con- 
cerned we  were  getting  secondary  evidence,  and  where  it  was  reasonably 
sufficient  I  would  have  certified  it  through.  If  I  could  not  get  the  original 
receiving  report  properly  validated  and  we  did  get  the  other,  picking  it  up  from 
various  railroad  and  express  companies'  records  and  other  accounts — if  we 
could  not  get  it  through  that,  the  item  would  go  in  suspension  until  the  con- 
tractor produced  the  evidence. 

The  Chairman.  So  that  the  fact  that  there  was  only  a  10-percent  check 
would  really  be  a  handicap  to  the  contractor  in  proving  his  case,  rather  than 
to  the  Government  in  finding  out  the  facts,  would  it  not? 

Mr.  Guise.  Yes. 

The  Chairman.  In  other  words,  if  there  had  been  a  100-percent  check 

183  at  that  time  it  would  have  been  easier  for  the  contractor  to  make  his 
proof  of  these  vouchers? 

Mr.  Guise.  If  there  had  been  a  real  100-percent  check  at  the  time  there  would 
not  have  been  any  question.  This  contract,  as  far  as  materials  are  concerned, 
would  have  been  closed  out  a  long  time  ago. 

The  Chairman.  But  if  there  were  any  insufficiency  as  to  the  evidence  it 
would  have  been  put  in  suspension? 

Mr.  Guise.  We  considered  that  entirely  a  matter  for  the  contractor  to  prove. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Does  the  chairman  understand  that  although  the  contractor 
might  have  been  embarrassed  to  make  his  proof,  he  had  already  been  paid, 
and  that  by  virtue  of  this  10-percent  check  the  contractor  had  paid  himself,  and 
this  audit  was  not  for  the  purpose  of  paying  the  contractor  but  for  the  purpose 
of  ascertaining  what  moneys  had  been  overpaid,  and  should  properly  have  been 
paid  back  to  the  United  States. 

The  Chairman.  Yes ;  I  mean  that  in  any  claims  for  that  $500,  or  whatever 
it  may  be,  these  items  would  be  caught  up  now? 

Mr.  CARNDtTFP.  Yes ;  but  the  contractor  had  the  money. 

General  Willl\ms.  The  contractor,  however,  is  liable  for  the  money,  and  if 
he  could  not  prove  that  he  had  been  made  a  just  payment,  then  the  Govern- 
ment has  recourse  and  can  recover  from  him.  Is  not  that  the  complete  story? 
You  just  stated  one  part  of  it.  Is  not  that  the  complement  to  what  you  just 
said? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  will  give  you  the  complete  story,  sir.  The  contractor  is 
a  corporation  with  extremely  limited  capital,  and  was  required  to  give  a 

184  bond  of  $20,000,000.  There  is  some  doubt  in  the  mind  of  the  Depart- 
ment of  Justice  as  to  tlie  collection  of  the  judgment  if  it  should  be  ob- 
tained. In  order  to  recover  the  money,  if  the  contractor  were  liable,  it  would  be 
necessary  to  institute  a  suit  and  to  prove  the  case  of  the  United  States,  thereby 
throwing  the  burden  of  proof  on  the  United  States  and  not  on  the  contractor. 
He,  having  received  the  money  by  this  process,  is  in  the  advantageous  position. 

Mr.  McTjAnb.  Major,  you  were  asked  about  the  number  of  plants  and  the  small 
number  of  men  with  which  to  make  a  check.  There  never  at  any  time  was  any 
trouble  in  securing  the  men  to  do  auditing  work,  was  there? 

Mr.  Guise.  I  cannot  state  that.  There  was  no  trouble  in  securing  men  at 
the  time  of  the  particular  audit  that  I  am  conversant  with,  or  at  any  time  after 
I  returned  from  overseas. 

General  Wiixiams.  I  can  answer  Mr.  McLane's  question.  At  all  times  it  was 
difficult  to  obtain  labor — difficult  to  obtain  the  kind  of  people  that  we  wanted. 
At  all  times  during  the  war,  I  mean. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  3429 

Mr.  McLanb.  I  hope  the  general  will  not  get  the  impression  that  I  am  trying 
to  east  a  reflection  upon  him  or  any  member  of  the  department.  That  has  crept 
into  this  a  number  of  times.  What  I  am  driving  at  is  the  fact  that  they  had  so 
many  plants  that  there  was  not  a  proper  check  made — not  because  there  is  criti- 
cism of  the  Department  but  because  of  the  fact  that  actually  it  was  not  done 
and  that  there  is  a  demand  for  it  to  be  done  at  this  time. 

185  General  Williams.  How  can  it  be  done?     It  is  all  gone.     How  can  you 
go  back  and  make  a  check? 

Colonel  Hull.  How  can  you  check  the  delivery  at  this  time? 

Mr.  McLane.  We  can  force  the  men  who  did  not  show  that  the  materials 
arrived  to  bring  us  something  on  which  to  stand.  I  do  not  think  any  contractor 
has  a  right  to  say,  "  Well,  I  have  delivered  the  material ;  noW  you  prove  that 
I  have  not."     I  do  not  think  the  Government  is  called  upon  to  do  that. 

Colonel  Hull.  Is  that  the  position  here? 

Mr.  McLanb.  It  is  not  my  position. 

Colonel  Hull.  Is  it  the  position  of  the  du  Pont  people? 

Mr.  McLanb.  I  am  wondering.  They  have  not,  in  my  judgment,  furnished 
proper  evidence  of  delivery. 

Colonel  Hull.  Have  you  seen  the  evidence  that  they  have  submitted? 

Mr.  McLanb.  I  have  not,  because  you  have  it. 

General  Wiixiams.  Why  do  you  make  a  statement  like  that  to  this  board,  when 
you  do  not  know? 

Mr.  McLane,  Because  I  know  of  $29,000  in  money  in  the  hands  of  the  Nash- 
ville &  Chattanooga  Railroad  at  Nashville,  Tennessee,  that  the  Nashville  &  Chat- 
tanooga Railroad  says  does  not  belong  to  them ;  that  it  either  belongs  to  the 
Railroad  Administration  or  to  the  Government,  on  account  of  overpayments. 
Because  I  know  of  numerous  items  of  that  kind  in  which  there  has  been  no 
accounting,  I  feel  justified  in  making  that  assertion  upon  such  information.  I 
will  state  further  that — if  I  am  correctly  informed  by  the  Bureau  of  Intelli- 

186  gence  of  the  Department  of  Justice — there  is  no  reason  why  $29,000  should 
not  be  covered  into  the  Trea.sury  tomorrow  if  the  War  Department  will 

make  a  proper  investigation  of  that  item. 

General  Williams.  What  proof  have  you  of  these  statements  you  are  making? 

Mr.  MoLane,  I  have  not  seen  the  letter,  but  I  have  Mr.  Towler,  who  has  the 
proof^ — a  statement  from  the  president  of  the  N.  &  C.  road  that  there  is  $29,000 
covered  into  profit  and  loss  that  does  not  belong  to  the  N.  &  C.  road,  which  was 
an  overpayment  on  freights  that  was  never  accounted  for. 

General  Williams.  Why  don't  you  bring  out  the  documents  and  show  them 
to  us? 

Mr.  McLanb.  I  am  bringing  it  out  now.  I  am  bringing  it  to  you  when  I  come 
here  and  ask  that  this  audit  be  made  in  order  to  determine  it.  That  is  why  I 
am  here  today. 

Mr.  Caendutff.  In  this  connection,  Mr.  Chairman.  I  think  we  should  introduce 
the  correspondence  of  the  War  Department — which  Major  Booton  has  kindly 
furnished  me  this  morning — showing  that  this  10  percent  check  was  ordered 
by  office  order  no.  1  on  May  9,  1918,  by  Lieutenant  Foulke,  the  oflicer  in  charge 
at  Nashville ;  and  that  Lieutenant  Foulke  in  a  report  to  the  Ordnance  Depart- 
ment at  Washington  in  .Tune  1918  called  attention  to  the  fact  that  this  check  was 
incomplete,  and  that  sul)sequently  the  chief  clerk  at  Nashville  reported  to  Lieu- 
tenant Foulke  that  errors  had  crept  in  and  that  the  10  percent  audit  was  incom- 
plete. Those  three  letters  are  in  the  possession  of  Major  Booton.  So  the  War 
Department  had  notice. 

Colonel  Hull.  And  have  acted  on  it. 

187  General  Williams.  We  do  not  dispute  that ;  that  is  a  matter  of  record. 
We  know  that. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  We  will  put  it  in  our  record  now.  if  you  do  not  object. 

Major  BooTON.  These  are  attached  to  a  report  of  May  20,  1920,  of  Major 
Guise  to  Mr.  .John  C.  Jones,  district  chief,  at  the  Philadelphia  office,  and 
are  supporting  documents  to  the  report  of  Major  Guise.  The  original  report 
contains  these  copies  of  office  orders  and  so  on. 

Mr.  Anderson.  If  there  is  no  objection,  those  will  just  be  put  in  by  refer- 
ence on  the  record. 

Mr.  Carndutf.  I  would  like  to  have  them  put  in  verbatim,  Colonel  Anderson. 
They  are  official  records. 

The  Chairman.  Yes.    It  is  not  necessary  to  read  them  now. 


3430  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

(The  documents  referred  to  are  here  copied  in  full  as  follows:) 

[Copy] 

May  9.   1918. 
office  order  no.  1 

Subject :  Routing  to  be  followed  by  United  States  Army  ordnance  inspection 
force,  Old  Hickory  powder  plant,  Nashville,  Tenn.,  governing  construction 
under  contract  no.  war  order  P-4755-711-E 

1.  Work  of  inspection. — Inspection  will  be  divided  into  five  classes,  as  fol- 

lows : 

188  (A)    Inspection   of  vouchers,   invoices,   bills,   etc.,   material,   expendi- 
tures, etc.,  and  the  approving  or  disapproving  of  same,  before  sending 

through  to  the  disbursement  officer  at  Wilmington,  Del. 

(B)  Inspection  of  incoming  material. 

(C)  Inspection  of  distribution  of  material  after  receipt. 

(D)  Inspection  of  the  actual  work  of  construction  with  a  view  to  checking 
up  delays,  excess  of  employees  on  any  particular  piece  of  work,  undue  waste 
of  material,  loafing  employees,  leaving  the  job  early,  etc. 

(E)  General  inspection,  covering  commissary  methods,  office  methods,  police 
methods,  fire  prevention,  etc. 

II.  Tlie  personnel  and  division  of  worJc. — The  work  of  inspection  will  be 
divided  among  the  personnel  of  this  office  as  follows : 

(A)  Serg.  E.  F.  Coffin,  in  charge  of  office  and  outside  inspection  for  the 
inspector  of  ordnance. 

(B)  J.  S.  Wood,  acting  chief  clerk  and  stenographer  directly  responsible 
for  routine  work  in  the  office. 

(C)  Private  W.  C.  Gibbons,  in  charge  of  oiitside  inspection  on  incoming 
material  in  bulk  in  carload  lots. 

(D)  Private  E.  .J.  Taylor,  in  charge  of  outside  insiiection  on  incoming  mis- 
cellaneous material  in  shipments  of  carload  and  less-than-carload  lots. 

(E)  Private  Harry  W.  Strickler,  general  inspection.  Private  Strickler  will 
be  detailed  daily  for  specific  work. 

III.  Methods  to  he  folloivcd  in  conducting  inspection  of  vouchers,  i)u-oices, 
hills,  etc. —  (A)    Such  documents  will  be  divided  into  three  classes,  according 

to  the  contractor's  classification,  as  follows : 

189  1.  Lumber.      2.  Mason.      3.  Miscellaneous. 

(B)  1.  Such  documents  wdien  presented  to  this  office  for  approval  will 
be  immediately  checked  by  Sergt.  Coffin  or  Mr.  Wood. 

2.  Those  found  correct  will  be  stamped  approved  and  returned  to  the  con- 
tractor when  complete,  each  day. 

3.  From  time  to  time  documents  will  be  submitted  for  approval  which  may 
be  found  to  be  incorrect  in  various  ways.  Whenever  such  errors  are  found, 
Sergt.  Coffin  or  Mr.  Wood  will  call  the  matter  to  the  attention  of  the  inspector 
of  ordnance  and  take  the  matter  up  with  the  contractor  with  a  view  to  correction. 

(a)  A  record  of  such  documents  will  be  kept  in  the  proper  file.  This  record 
will  give  full  details  in  each  case  covering  the  actual  error  (when  it  can  be 
ascertained)  — 

Action  taken  by  this  oflSce. 

Action  taken  by  the  conti-actor. 

Result  of  the  action  taken. 

(ft)   A  monthly  report  will  be  compiled  from  this  file,  showing — 

Total  number  of  errors  detected. 

Total  money  value  of  errors  detected. 

Total  number  of  errors  detected  which  could  not  be  corrected  from  reports 
when  taken  up  with  the  contractor. 

(C)   1.  At  least  10  percent  of  the  documents  received  in  this  office  without 

supporting  papers  will  be  held  out  and  will  be  forwarded  to  the  contractor 

with   request  for  supporting  papers. 

190  2.  Upon   notification    from   the   contractor   that   these   documents    are 
ready    for    inspection    with    supporting    papers    attached,    either    Sergt 

Coffin  or  Mr.  Wood  will  go  to  the  contractor's  office  and  check. 

3.  A  daily  record  will  be  kept  by  this  office  in  the  proper  file  showing  results 
of  the  check. 

4.  On  the  first  day  of  every  month  a  report  will  be  compiled  from  the  infor 
mation  in  this  file  and  from  the  record  specified  in  paragraph  IV-H-1  showing — 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3431 

(a)  The  total  number  of  documents  received  for  each  class  of  material  dur- 
ing the  month  for  inspection. 

(&)   The  grand  total  of  documents  received  during  the  month  for  inspection. 

(c)  The  total  number  of  documents  found  to  be  correct  upon  check  during 
the  month. 

(e)  The  total  number  of  documents  found  to  be  incorrect  upon  check  during 
the  month. 

(/)  Percentage  of  documents  checked  by  this  office  during  the  month  based 
on  the  total  number  received  for  inspection. 

iff)  The  percentage  of  documents  found  to  be  incorrect  during  the  month 
based  on  the  total  number  received  for  inspection.  ' 

IV.  Method  to  be  fotlowed  in  making  inspection  on  incoming  material. — 
(A)  1.  The  men  assigned  to  inspection  of  incoming  material  will  be  known 
as  "  field  inspectors." 

2.  They  will  check  every  day,  covering  as  wide  an  area  and  as  great  a 
191       diversity  of  materials  as  possible,  using  the  forms  issued  by  the  con- 
tractor to  his  field  checkers  for  records. 

(B)  In  checking  carload  lots  in  bulk,  the  entire  carload  will  be  checked 

(C)  In  checking  less-tliau-carload  lots,  any  single  complete  parcel  or  "part 
of  the  shipment  may  be  checked. 

(D)  In  checking  carload  lots  of  miscellaneous  material,  any  single  comnlete 
parcel  or  part  of  the  shipment  may  be  checked. 

(E)  It  is  not  desired  that  entire  carloads  of  miscellaneous  shipments  may 
be  checked,  as  with  the  present  force  the  work  would  be  restricted  to  too 
small  a  percentage  of  the  incoming  cars. 

(F)  At  the  end  of  each  day's  work,  the  field  inspectors  will  report  to  the 
office,  turning  in  their  reports  and  taking  up  with  the  inspector  of  ordnance 
any  points  of  particular  importance.  In  the  absence  of  the  inspector  of  ord- 
nance, written  memorandum  must  be  made,  calling  his  attention  to  such  points 

2.  Reports  should  be  clipped  together  and  should  have  attached  to  them  a 
written  report,  signed  by  the  field  inspector,  calling  attention  particularly  to 
all  shortages,  broken  parts,  etc.,  that  they  day's  work  may  have  developed 
indicating  the  trouble  by  the  contractor's  requisition  number  covering  the 
material  referred  to.  "^^^  s 

3.  Any  other  points  of  interest  which  may  have  been  noted  during  the  day's 
work  in   connection   with  incoming  material  should   be   covered   in  the  field 

inspector's  report. 

192  4.  Each  morning  the  reports  of  the  field  inspectors  for  the  preceding 
day  will  be  carefully  checked  up  by  Mr.  Wood  or  Sergt.  Coffin      Afte? 

this  has  been  done  the  contractor  will  be  furnished  with  a  list  of  the  material 
covered  in  the  reports,  identified  by  requisition  numbers  and  car  numbers 
and  the  contractor  will  be  required  to  submit  corresponding  reports  by  their 
field  checkers  for  ^mparison.  The  check  comparison  will  be  made  bv  Mr 
wood  or  hergt.  Coffin  immediately  upon  notice  from  the  contractor  that  he 
has  the  required  records  ready.  In  making  comparison,  particular  attention 
will  be  given  to  reports  by  our  inspectors  indicating  broken  or  missing  articles 

(G)  1    A  daily  record  will  be  kept  by  this  office  in  the  proper  file!  showin- 
the  results  of  the  comparison  called  for  in  paragraph  IV-F-4    preceding 
rv^of-.     •*^f,?''l*,'^''^  of  every  month  a  report  will  be  compiled  from  the  infor- 
mation in  this  file  and  the  record  specified  in  paragraph  IV-H-I   showin-— 

)i\  m?^  ^^^^\  ""'^•^er  of  "check  comparisons"  made  during  the  month 

Zi^  P^^^  number  of  "check  comparisons  "  found  to  be  correct 
c)   The  total  number  of  "check  comparisons"  found  to  be  incorrect 
((Z)  The  percentage  of  "check  comparisons"  found  to  be  correct    based  on 
the  total  number  of  "  check  comparisons  "  made  during  the  month 

(e)  The  percentage  of  "check  comparisons"  found  to  be  incorrect  based 
IQ^  ,^^ri?^^\  ".T^"'"  ^^     ^^/''^  comparisons  "  made  during  the  month 

193  U)   The   total   number  of   documents    (vouchers,   invoices    bills    efM 
received  by  this  office  during  the  month  for  inspection  '  ' 

(g)  The  percentage  of  "  check  comparisons  "  made  during  the  month  bn^ed 
.n  tlie  total  number  of  documents  received  during  the  month  for  inspecdS 

(H)  1.  A  daiy  record  will  be  kept  in  the  file  provided  showing  the  total 
[II-A!'p?Lecnng "''  '^''  '^'^  ^^''  "^'"^  ^""'^  '^''^'  classified  as  specified  fn 
,  2.  The  first  day  of  each  month  a  total  for  each  class  and  a  grand  total  for 
ill  classes  will  be  taken  for  purposes  of  reports  specified  in   the  preceding 

-Jell  £1^1  cl^Jllfe, 


3432  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

(V)  The  inspection  referred  to  in  paragraph  I-O  will  for  the  time  being  be 
handled  by  the  Inspector  of  Ordnance  or  such  other  of  the  personnel  of  this 
office  whom  he  may  designate  from  time  to  time. 

VI.  Inspection  referred  to  in  I-D  will  be  handled  by  the  Inspector  of  Ord- 
nance himself,  or  such  other  of  the  personnel  of  this  office  as  he  may  designate. 
All  Field  Inspectors,  however,  will  "  keep  their  eyes  open  "  for  any  of  the 
points  referred  to  in  paragraph  I-D  and  will  submit  a  daily  report  in  writing 
covering  any  of  the  points  referred  to  which  the  inspector  may  believe  that 
he  has  noted.  These  reports  should  specify  the  time,  place,  particular  trouble, 
and,  when  it  can  be  obtained  without  friction,  the  name  and  the  number  of 
tJie  foreman  involved. 

VII.  Inspection  referred  to  in  paragraph  I-E  will  be  handled  by  the  Inspec- 
tor of  Ordnance  in  person. 

George  R.  Fgulke,  Jr. 


194  Army   Inspector   of  Ordxance, 

June  7,  1918. 
From :    Lt.    Geo.   R.    Foulke,    Jr.,    Ord.    R.    C,    Army    Inspector    of    Ordnance, 

Nashville,  Tenn. 
To:  Lt.  Col.  F.  H.  Miles,  Jr.,  Inspection  Division  Ord.  Dept.  U.  S.  A.,  6th  &  B 

Streets,  Washington,  D.  C. 
Subject :  Routine  of  Inspection. 

1.  Attached  ht  rewith  is  copy  of  Office  Order  No.  1  in  re  inspection  specified  in 
my  letter  to  you  of  the  23rd  ulte. 

2.  Referring  to  the  monthly  report  specified  in  paragraph  111-C4,  you  will 
note  that  the  report  gives  a  general  summary,  not  including  money  value  of 
errors  found.  The  money  value  of  the  percentage  of  error,  if  any,  can  readily 
be  determined  by  referring  to  the  file  record  from  which  this  report  is  com- 
piled. The  actual  documents  which  were  in  error  can  be  found.  From  tliem 
the  actual  money  value  of  the  errors  can  be  computed,  based  on  the  money 
value  of  the  documents  in  which  the  errors  occurred,  and,  if  satisfactory,  re- 
imbursement, when  construction  is  finished,  can  be  made  based  upon  this  per- 
centage. If  this  reimbursement  is  not  thought  to  be  accurate  enough,  then 
the  auditor,  when  appointed,  can  cover  each  document,  check  all  errors,  and 

reimbursement  can  be  made  on   the  strength   of  his   report.     In   other 

195  words,  the  report  specified  above  first  develops  with  reasonable  certainty 
whether  any  errors  existed  or  not  and  second  provides  a  working  basis 

on  which  adjustment  can  be  made  if  desired.  Attached  herewith  are  cards, 
and  from  the  one  marked  "  #1  ",  you  will  note  how  the  Information  regarding 
documents  checked  with  supporting  papers  is  shown  in  the  files  of  this  office. 

3.  Referring  to  report  specified  in  IV-G-2  it  is  felt  that  this  report  will 
develop  with  reasonable  certainty,  first  whether  the  inspection  made  by  the 
contractor  is  a  good  and  proper  inspection,  and,  second,  that  it  will  develop 
a  basis  for  financial  adjustment  of  claims,  in  the  following  manner ;  if  compari- 
son of  reports  of  the  "  Field  inspectors  "  from  this  office  with  the  reports  of 
the  contractor's  field  checkers  develops  that  the  contractor's  field  checkers  are 
not  reporting  shortages,  breakages,  etc.,  certain  specified  instances  of  failure  to 
make  such  reports  can  be  determined  from  the  records  kept  in  this  ofiice,  and, 
by  referring  to  the  files  kept  by  the  contractor,  the  loss  in  money  value  occa- 
sioned by  the  errors  in  the  contractor's  field  checkers'  reports  can  be  deter- 
mined as  a  percentage  based  on  the  value  of  the  shipment.  This  i)ercentage 
could  be  applied  if  satisfactory  to  the  entire  value  of  all  purchases  made  for 
purposes  of  reimbursement  upon  conclusion  of  construction.  If  this  method  of 
settlement  is  not  satisfactory  the  fact  of  the  error  existing  has  been  estab- 
lished, and  audit  can  be  made  by  the  proper  parties  and  specific  adjustment 

obtained.     From  the  card  marked  "  #2  attached,  you  will  note  how  the 

196  information  regarding  comparison  between  the  field  inspectors'  reports 
and  reports  of  the  contractor's  field  checkers  is  shown  in  the  files  of 

this  office. 

4.  Referring  to  paragraph  I-C,  this  inspection  will  be  handled  as  specified 
in  paragraph  V.  No  particular  men  have  been  designated  to  handle  this  work 
regularly  because  investigation  has  developed  that  when  material  is  received 
on  the  ground  here  and  properly  cliecked  in,  it  is  almost  sure  to  be  checked 
up  and  handled  in  an  economical  manner  and  with  as  little  waste  as  conditions 
will    permit.      SuflScient    inspection    can    be    given,    therefore,    as    outlined    in 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY  3433 

paragraph  V  to  insure  that  the  present  methods  are  continued.  In  case  this 
inspection  develops  at  any  time  that  carelessness  is  creeping  in,  steps  will  be 
taken  to  institute  inspection  that  will  put  a  stop  to  such  carelessness. 

5.  The  method  of  handling  inspection  referred  to  in  paragraph  I-D  as  speci- 
fied in  paragraph  VI  is  forced  upon  this  office  by  the  very  nature  of  the  work. 
It  is  almost  impossible  to  prove  that  the  troubles  specified  did  exist  even  if 
they  seemed  to  at  the  moment  of  inspection.  This  office  is  cooperating  with  the 
du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  to  put  a  stop  to  such  troubles,  and  it  is  the  belief 
of  this  office  that  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  is  doing  everything  in  their  power 
to  prevent  such  troubles.  If  the  services  of  one  or  two  thoroughly  trained 
construction  engineers  with  experience  in  big  construction  work  could  be 
obtained,  interesting  criticisms  might  be  made,  but  it  is  not  believed  that  any 
more  or  any  better  action  could  be  taken  than  is  being  taken  at  the  present 

time. 
197  6.  Relative  to  inspection  specified   in  paragraph   I-E,  this   inspection 

will,  of  necessity,  liave  to  be  handled  by  the  Inspector  of  Ordnance 
himself.  For  the-du  Pont  Engineering  Company  it  is  being  covered  by  men 
who  have  years  of  preliminary  training  in  other  work  of  the  same  character, 
and  in  the  opinion  of  the  Inspector  of  Ordnance  they  are  doing  all  that  is 
possible  at  the  present  time. 

7.  It  is  realized  most  keenly  that  the  inspection  outlined  in  office  order  no.  1 
is  not  a  100%  inspection.  It  is  felt,  however,  that  if  properly  carried  out,  it 
is  reasonably  certain  to  develop  any  troubles  whicli  may  exist  and  provide  a 
remedy  for  them  and  that  no  more  certain  system  of  inspection  can  be  devised 
to  meet  the  conditions  short  of  an  absolute  100%  inspection.  This  last  is  prac- 
tically out  of  the  question.  The  du  Pont  Engineering  Co.  and  the  subcontrac- 
tors are  conducting  a  100%  in.spection.  In  doing  this  the  du  Pont  Engineering 
Company  is  employing  100  checkers  and  the  subcontractor's  force  is  approxi- 
mately 100  checkers  covering  incoming  material  alone,  while  an  office  force  of 
several  hundred  people  is  maintained  to  do  the  necessary  paiier  work.  In 
addition  to  these  men,  there  is  a  small  army  engaged  in  checking  the  distribu- 
tion of  material,  auditing  vouchers,  etc.  Inasmucli  as  the  du  Pont  Engineering 
Co.'s  flle.s  are  open  at  all  times  to  the  Government  and  will  eventually  be 
turned  over  to  the  Govenment,  it  is  felt  that  to  institute  a  check  on  them 
which  would  cover  the  work  as  they  are  doing  would  involve  a  waste  of  men 
and  money  and  a  loss  of  time  which  would  not  be  justified. 

George  R.  Foulke,  Jr.. 

1st  Lieut.  Ord.  Y.  C, 
Army  Inspector  of  Ordnance. 
198 

(Copy) 

Old  Hickory  Powder  Plant, 
NashriUe,   Tennessee,  September  12,  1918. 
From :  Robert  L.  Oden,  Chief  Clerk,  Ordnance  Department,  U.  S.  A.,  Local. 
To:   Capt.  Geo.  R.  Foulke,  Jr.,  Ord.  U.   S.  A.,  Army  Hickory  Powder  Plant, 

(Local). 
Subject :   Developments  of  construction   inspection,   per  office   order  no.   1,   at 

Old  Hickory  Powder  Plant. 

1.  Reference:  Paragraph  III,  C-4,  subparagraphs  (a)  to  (g)  inclusive,  of 
office  order  no.  1. 

The  monthly  report  referred  to  in  the  reference  is  made  up  and  on  hand 
at  this  office  for  refei-ence  on  demand,  for  each  month  commencing  June  1st, 
to  date.  The  net  result  of  reports  for  June,  July,  and  August  is  summarized 
below  in  accordance  with  the  reference,  except  for  the  omission  of  subparagraph 

(a)  in  the  reference,  which  reads  "The  total  number  of  documents  received 
for  each  class  of  material  during  the  month  for  inspection." 

(b)  Grand  total  of  documents  received  to  September  1st 54,965 

(c)  Total  number  of  documents  checked  for  supporting  papers  by  this 

office  to  September  1st 5.371 

(d)  Total  number  of  documents  found  to  be  correct  upon  check  for  sup- 

porting papers  to  September  1st 5,  371 

(e)  Total    number    of    documents   found    to    be    incorrect    to    Septem- 

ber  1st None. 

199       (f)   Percentage  of  documents  checked  by  this  office  to  September 

1st,  based  on  total  number  received  for  inspection 9.  8% 

(g)   Percentage  of  documents  found  to  be  incorrect  to  September  1st —  None. 


3434  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

II.  Reference:  Paragraph  IV,  C-2,  subparagraphs  (a)  to  (g),  inclusive,  of 
office  order  no.  I. 

(a)  Total  number  of  "check  comparisons"  made  to  September  1st 4,765 

(b)  Total  number  of  "check  comparisons"  found  to  be  correct 3,561 

(c)  Total  number  of  "check  comparisons"  found  to  be  incorrect 1,204 

(Note. — Included  in  the  "check  comparisons"  found  to  be  incor- 
rect are  all  reports  which  did  not  compare  favorably  with  the  con- 
tractor's reports  when  same  could  be  obtained,  and  1,016  reports 
covering  material  which  was  received  at  this  plant  on  which  con- 
tract held  no  parallel  papers.) 

(d)  Percentage  of  "check  comparisons"  found  to  be  correct,  based  on 

total  number  made  to  September  1st 74.  8 

(e)  Percentage  of  "  check  comparisons  "  found  to  be  Incorrect,  based  on 

total  number  of  "  check  comparisons  "  made  to  September  1st 25.  2 

(f)  Total  number  of  documents  received  by  this  office  during  the  period 

for  inspection 54, 965 

(g)  Percentage  of  "  check  comparisons  "  made  during  the  period,  based 

on  total  number  of  documents  received  during  period  for  inspec- 
tion          8. 6 

III.  A  study  of  the  figures  given  herewith,  together  with  a  complete  under- 
standing of  the  situation  reveals  a  discrepancy.     First  of  all,  it  will  be  noted 

that  all  vouchers,  when  submitted  to  this  office  for  final  inspection  and 

200  passing,  apparently  have  complete  supporting  papers.     Secondly,  it  will  be 
noted  that  in  25.2%  of  all  the  cases  which  have  been  checked  by  this 

office  and  which  constitute  8.6%  of  the  total  documents  received,  supporting 
papers  could  not  be  furnished  at  the  point  and  by  the  office  where  these  sup- 
porting papers  are  supposed  to  originate  in  every  case.  In  other  words,  appar- 
ently whenever  a  field  checker's  report  was  not  available  to  cover  a  given 
voucher,  and  payment  was  desired  on  the  same,  a  field  checker's  report  was 
made  up  from  the  face  of  the  voucher  attached  thereto,  certified,  and  for- 
warded to  the  Army  inspector  of  ordnance  for  signature  as  a  proper  support- 
ing document. 

IV.  Reference:  Letter  of  May  13th,  1018.  Subject:  Routine  of  inspection, 
paragraphs  2  and  3. 

Paragraph  2  reads,  in  part,  "  In  other  words,  the  report  specified  above  first 
develops  with  responsable  certainty  whether  any  errors  exist  or  not." 

Paragraph  3  reads,  in  part,  "  It  is  felt  that  this  report  will  develop  with 
I'easonable  certainty,  first  whether  the  inspection  made  by  the  contractor  is  a 
good  and  proper  inspection." 

It  is  felt  that  the  facts  developed  in  paragraphs  I  and  II  above  show : 

(1)  With  absolute  certainty  that  errors  do  exist: 

(2)  That  at  least  part  of  the  inspection  made  by  the  contractor  has  not 
proved  to  be  a  good  and  proper  inspection. 

Robert  L.  Oden,  Chief  Clerk. 

201  The  Chairman.  The  point  I  would  like  to  get  cleared  up  is  this.    Does 
this   list   of   suspended  items   cover   all   these   points   where  there   may 

be  irregularities  or  lack  of  check  or  any  other  matter  that  the  Government 
might  have  some  claim  under? 

Mr.  Guise.  That  could  not  be  corrected  by  a  careful  investigation.  I  will 
say  that  we  had  not  completed  it ;  there  should  have  been  more  men  on  the 
job.  As  I  state,  I  was  a  pretty  busy  man  for  about  eight  months  in  1919.  I 
should  have  had  men  out  then  on  this  proposition,  checking  in.  I  will  say  this 
plainly — and  I  would  like  to  have  this  on  the  record — that  so  far  as  the  vice 
president  of  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  is  concerned,  Mr.  AVilliam  Coyne, 
he  did  everything  possible,  I  think,  to  assist  us.  So  far  as  the  comptroller  of 
the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  and  the  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Company 
was  concerned,  he  blocked  our  way — at  lease  considerably.  Mr.  Coyne  did  his 
level  best  to  clear  up  things.  I  sat  across  the  table  from  Mr.  the  comp- 
troller of  the  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  Company — when  we  had  it  hot  and 
heavy 

Mr.  Carndiiff.  Mr.  Broad? 

Mr.  Guise.  Mr.  Broad ;  yes.  I  would  not,  I  told  him,  validate  certain 
payments.  We  were  not  in  any  way  concerned  with  them ;  they  were  contrary 
to  law  and  were  contrary  to  regulations.    And  Mr.  Broad  made  the  observation 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTEY  3435 

to  me  that  if  it  was  necessary  they  would  come  up  to  the  United  States  Congress 
and  get  the  money. 

Now,  part  of  these  things  were  such  items  as  those :  The  payment  of 

202  fees   for  country-cluh   dues   for   the   manager   of  a   certain   phint.     The 
payment    of   the    expenses    of  certain    officers    of   the   United    States — I 

mean  Army  ofiicers — which  it  would  be  rathtr  irregular,  to  say  the  least,  for 
me  to  validate.  They  have  another  way  of  securing  their  reimbursements ;  it 
is  fixed  by  law. 

Colonel  Hull.  But  none  of  that  was  passed  and  paid? 

Mr.  Guise.  None  of  that  stuff  was  passed.  As  I  say,  he  made  those  state- 
ments to  me.  AYe  had  difficulty,  not  only  under  contracts,  but  under  claims, 
in  securing  information  from  the  du  Pont  organization  in  general,  for  a 
period  of  time  lasting  nearly  one  year.  When  I  speak  of  information,  I  mean 
detailed  information.  Generalities — the  books  were  there.  "  Go  to  them." 
But  books  do  not  count.  That  was  our  biggest  trouble  of  all,  and  for  a  long 
period  of  time  it  occasioned  a  very  serious  delay  in  the  settlement  and  increased 
expense  to  the  United  States  in  the  settlement  of  claims. 

Mr.  McLane.  Major,  may  I  direct  your  attention  to  and  ask  you  to  give 
the  committee  the  facts,  if  you  know  the  facts,  witli  reference  to  a  purchase 
by  construction  from  operation  of  a  warehouse,  as  you  remember  the  trans- 
action? Will  you  tell  the  committee  the  facts  of  the  purchase  and  transfer 
from  one  contract  to  the  other  contract? 

Mr.  Guise.  The  committee  will  excuse  me  for  not  being  able  to  give  absolute 
information.  The  figures  are  as  near  as  I  can  give  them.  This  occurred 
some  years  ago. 

On  or  about  August  30,  1918,  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  decided  that 

they    would    swing    over    their    commissary    storehouse    from    construction    to 

operating  account.    Now,  normally  for  several  months  before  and  after- 

203  wards   the   contents   of   the   commissary    storehouse,    being    inventoried 
monthly,  would  run  from  $800,000  to  over  $1,000,000.     You  must  remem- 
ber there  were  about  40,000  people  concerned  in  this  case. 

On  August  30  or  September  1,  1918,  the  interdepartmental  voucher  that  was 
exchanged  between  the  two,  transferring  this  commissary  storehouse  from 
construction  to  operation,  gave  an  item  as  of  October  30th  of  $141,000  as  I 
remember  it.  In  other  words,  it  was  anywhere  from  one-fiftli  to  one-seventli, 
we  will  say,  of  what  had  been  found  to  be  the  normal  value  of  the  material  in 
the  storehouse. 

I  will  state  that  I  liave  no  direct  evidence  that  they  had  not  reduced  the 
quantity  of  material  down  to  $141,000.  All  I  know  is  that  before  and  after, 
taking  each  side,  there  was  anywhere  from  five  to  seven  time  as  much  material 
in  that. 

Now,  as  a  precautionary  measure  in  an  audit  of  this  class  it  would  be  neces- 
sary to  determine  that  that  transfer  was  correct,  because,  if  you  transfer 
from  construction  to  operation  by  this  means,  values  that  were  far  in  excess 
of  the  actual  book  exchange  you  wouhl  disguise  by  practically  that  amount 
the  cost  of  operation,  which  immediately  would  throw  into  question  the  cost 
of  operation,  and  so  forth  ;  and,  of  course,  to  go  down  further  into  the  facts, 
if  this  was  considered  an  overhead  in  relation  to  the  production  of  powder, 
increase  the  compensation  to  the  United  States. 

Colonel  Hull.  That  was  a  matter  of  record? 

Mr.  Guise.  That  was  a  matter  of  record ;  yes. 

Colonel  Hull.  You  do  not  know  what  the  final  action  of  the  officers 
was? 

204  Mr.  Guise.  I  do  not,  sir. 

It  was  a  customary  practice  with  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company 
to  make  exchanges  in  that  way.  To  check  up  those  required  an  investigation 
that  would  be  material,  and  unless  there  were  discrepancies  or  questions  in- 
volved like  compensation  or  profit,  it  would  be  improbable  that  we  would  go 
very  far  into  that.  Just  as  quick  as  you  would  get  into  operation  costs — that 
is,  production  costs  of  powder — you  would  get  to  a  point  where,  for  the  protec- 
tion of  the  United  States,  it  was  necessary  to  establish  the  cost  of  the  powder. 

Colonel  Hull.  Was  it  your  intention  to  carry  on  that  inquiry  when  you  came 
to  operations? 

Mr.  GxnsE.  Yes,  sir. 

Colonel  Hull.  And  you  do  not  know  whether  it  was  done  or  not? 

Mr.  Guise.  I  do  not ;  so,  sir. 

8.3S76 — 35— PT  14 18 


3436  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Colonel  Hull.  But  the  i-ecords  will  show? 

Mr.  GxjiSE.  The  i-ecords  will  show ;  yes,  sir.  That  is  all  I  can  say.  It  was 
completed  after  I  left  Philadelphia,  if  it  was  completed  at  all.  I  do  not  know 
anything  about  that,  sir. 

The  Chairman.  Let  me  ask  one  more  question.  As  I  understand  it,  there 
are  several  different  classes  of  items  here.  First,  there  are  apparently  certain 
vouchers  which  the  auditors  did  not  think  were  correct  and  which  were  not 
paid,  like  that  country  club  fee,  as  I  understand.  That  was  one  class.  That 
money  has  not  been  paid  to  the  contractors  on  that  class? 

Mr.  GmsE.  The  moneys  have  been  paid,  but  claim  has  undoubtedly  been  made 
by  the  United  States  for  it. 

205  Colonel  Hull.  But  it  no  longer  stands  in  the  accounts. 

Mr.  Anderson.  In  other  words,  you  have  charged  the  contractor,  and 
he  has  admitted  the  charge? 

Mr.  Guise.  Yes. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  But  the  money  has  not  been  returned  to  the  United  States. 

The  Chairman.  That  is  secondary.  What  I  am  trying  to  do  now  is  to  segre- 
gate the  classes  of  items.  Then,  as  I  understand  it,  there  are  other  items 
which  were  suspended  by  the  audit  and  later  were  paid? 

Colonel  Huxx.  Some  passed  and  some  disallowed. 

The  Chairman.  That  is  another  class.  The  thii'd  class,  I  understand,  were 
not  audited  at  all — the  railroad  matter  that  Mr.  McLane  brought  up.  Those 
have  not  been  audited  at  all? 

Mr.  GuiSB.  There  was  an  audit  of  materials  received  on  a  considerable 
amount  of  that  work,  but  it  was  not  completed. 

The  Chairman.  And  then  tliere  is  another  class  that  everybody  agrees  is  all 
right — I  mean,  as  far  as  the  audit  was  concerned? 

Mr.  Guise.  There  were  a  large  number. 

The  Chairman.  Now,  is  it  possible  to  segregate  those  items?    In  other  words, 

instead  of  going  to  the  expense  of  making  a  complete  audit  of  things  which 

everybody  agrees  were  all  right,  is  it  possible  to  segregate  the  items  that  are 

in  question  and  audit  those?     I  would  like  to  have  Mr.  McLane's  idea  on  that, 

too,   as  to   whether  it  would   be  possible   to  segregate   those  different 

206  classes,  leaving  out  of  consideration  the  ones  that  everybody  agrees  are 
all  right  and  those  which  the  du  Pont  people  admit  were  wrongly  paid 

to  them,  and  limit  the  thing  to  the  ones  that  are  in  dispute. 

Mr.  McLane.  I  would  rather  refer  that  to  Major  Cameron,  who  is  an  auditor 
and  has  a  better  idea  of  those  things  than  I  have. 

The  Chairman.  I  simply  wanted  your  idea,  as  well  as  the  others. 

Mr.  McLane.  I  think  it  would  be,  from  my  standpoint,  but  my  opinion  is 
likely  to  be  erroneous,  because  I  am  not  an  auditor  in  any  sense. 

Mr.  Cameron.  I  would  not  think  that  up  to  this  time,  so  far  as  anything  has 
been  brought  out  in  the  evidence,  this  has  been  so  clearly  defined  that  such  a 
program  could  be  arranged,  excepting  in  isolated  instances ;  that  is  to  say, 
review  the  freight  charges,  and  then  take  up  the  isolated  instances  and  follow 
those  up.  But  as  to  a  line  of  demarkation,  as  to  where  the  90  percent  begins 
or  leaves  off,  when  we  are  speaking  of  a  10-percent  audit,  that  would  be  rather 
difficult  at  this  time. 

The  Chairman.  I  am  not  speaking  of  a  ten-percent  audit,  but  of  this  later 
and  more  or  less  complete  audit. 

General  Williams.  Is  it  your  idea  that  nothing  can  be  determined  without  a 
complete  reaudit? 

Mr.  Cameron.  I  do  not  think  I  said  that.  General  Williams. 

General  Williams.  I  was  just  trying  to  understand  you. 

207  Mr.  Cameron.  If  you  ask  me  the  question,  I  would  be  glad  to  answer 
it,  but  I  do  not  think  I  said  that. 

General  Williams.  Let  me  ask  you  this  question,  then.  It  has  been  tes- 
tified here  that  a  certain  percentage,  call  it  75  percent,  of  the  final  audit 
was  satisfactory.  Now,  is  it  possible  to  set  aside  and  accept  as  complete  and 
satisfactoi*y  that  75  percent,  and  reaudit  the  other  25  percent? 

Mr.  Cameron.  That  question  is  based  upon  a  knowledge  of  what  that  75  per- 
cent is. 

General  Williaives.  No;  I  have  no  knowledge  of  what  that  75  percent  is. 

Mr.  Camkhon.  And  I  have  no  knowledge  of  it. 

General  Williams.  Then  you  do  not  know? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3437 

Mr.  Cameron.  I  cannot  answer  your  question  regarding  some  75  percent, 
or  some  other  percent,  of  which  I  know  notliing. 

General  Williams.  Then  the  75  percent  referred  to  there — you  do  not  think 
tliat  can  be  segregated? 

Mr.  Camekon.  I  do  not  know  anything  about  it.  That  is  not  my  testimony. 
General  Williams. 

General  Williams.  But  you  came  in  and  expressed  an  opinion,  as  I  under- 
stood it,  concerning  this  matter,  about  a  certain  percentage  of  the  contract 
having  been  satisfactorily  audited  and  the  remaining  percentage  not  satisfac- 
torily audited.  And  as  I  understood  the  Secretary's  question  it  was  witli 
reference  to  whether  or  not  the  unsatisfactory  part  should  be  corrected. 

The  Chairman.  I  was  wondering  whether  it  would  be  possibly  to  seg- 

208  regate  the  items  that  everybody  agrees  are  all  right  and  separate  them 
from  the  Items  that  are  in  question,  in  order  to  save  expense. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Possibly  I  can  put  it  this  way — with  your  permission,  ;\Ir. 
■Chairman.  Mr.  Cameron,  if  you  and  the  finance  section  could  help  us  in 
directing  our  inquiiy  so  as  to  eliminate  those  things  that  have  been  completely 
audited  and  to  segregate  for  further  consideration  those  things  that  have  not 
been  completely  audited,  it  would  greatly  help  us. 

To  illustrate  what  I  mean :  Yesterday  Mr.  Peebles  testified  that  the  audit 
of  component  materials  in  operation  was  complete  and  satisfactory.  Mr. 
Youmans'  I  think,  said  that  certain  portions  of  the  audit  up  to  the  time  he 
left  were  complete  and  satisfactory,  but  it  left  some  $5,000,000,  covering  some 
hundreds  of  items,  unaudited. 

Now,  if  you  and  the  finance  section  would  engage  in  consideration  of  that 
and  such  other  evidence  as  may  be  adduced,  and  eliminate  from  further  con- 
sideration those  things  that  have  been  completely  audited  and  indicate  the 
things  that  ought  to  be  audited,  it  would  be  of  great  assistance  to  the  Board. 
For  Instance,  on  freight  charges,  on  the  showing  yesterday,  I  do  not  hesitate 
to  say  that  without  further  information  my  opinion  would  be  that  that  ought 
to  be  audited,  to  see  whether  there  is  any  fraud  in  the  intervening  transactions, 
even  if  we  do  not  get  the  money. 

There  were  certain  other  things  which  Mr.  Peebles  and  Mr.  Youmans  testi- 
fied were  about  90  percent  complete,  but  were  not  completed  because  it  was 
found  to  be  quite  expensive.    Now,  if  you  could  accept  as  true  what  has 

209  been  done,  and  make  an  additional  audit  of  those  things  that  have  not 
been  done,  we  might  save  expense  and  delay  to  the  Government  and 

complete  a  100-percent  audit.    Do  you  thing  that  might  be  possible? 

Mr.  Cameron.  I  think  it  is  inconceivable  that  any  man  could  determine  where 
these  gentlemen  draw  their  line  between  90  and  10,  or  75  and  25,  or  65  and  35. 

Mr.  Anderson.  It  would  be  of  great  assistance  if  you  gentlemen  who  are 
familiar  with  accounts  could  indicate  what  Items  the  developments  here  re- 
quire should  be  further  investigated.  It  would  be  very  helpful  in  saving  money 
to  the  Government,  and  also  to  us  in  reaching  our  conclusions. 

210  Colonel  Hull.  I  think  if  you  will  take  the  testimony  of  Mr.  Kileen,  who 
completed  the  audit,  and  Major  Farr,  who  was  in  charge,  that  you  will  have 

actualities,  rather  than  theories  in  front  of  you,  and  that  the  records  will  show 
what  has  been  done. 

Mr.  Andekson.  Anyhow,  if  you  will  keep  in  mind  what  has  been  done,  now  we 
will  know  what  It  is. 

General  Williams.  I  am  wondering,  Mr.  Chairman,  why  the  gentlemen  at  the 
other  end  of  the  table  have  not  examined  these  audits.  Why  have  they  not 
■availed  themselves  of  the  records  they  have  at  hand? 

Mr.  Andekson.  I  think  it  would  take  six  months  to  do  it. 

Mr.  McLane.  The  reason  the  district  attorney  has  not  done  it  is  because  he 
has  not  had  access  to  the  papers. 

General  Williams.  I  don't  know  what  the  district  attorney  had  to  do  with  it 
Mr.  Carnduff  has  men  and  has  assistants  there,  and  he  should  have  done  it. 

Mr.  McLanb.  I  am  here  by  invitation,  and  if  I  am  not  wanted,  I  will  retire. 

General  Williams.  I  don't  understand  that  you  are  the  principal  counsel 
prosecuting  this  case.  Major  Carnduff  was  the  man,  I  understood.  Why  hasn't 
he  availed  himself  of  the  material  at  hand? 

Mr.  MoLanb.  I  didn't  think  that  this  would  assume  a  personal  basis.  I 
thought  we  were  all  interested  in  the  matter.     I  believe  some  criminal  re- 


3438  MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 

spoiisibility  is  here.     I  don't  mean  that  for  any  member  of  the  War  Department, 
or    the   War   Department   as   a   whole.     But    I    believe    there   is   gross 

211  and  flagrant  fraud,  and  I  believe  that  is  the  reason  my  department  has 
asked  me  to  come  here.     If  I  am  in  the  wronj^  place,  or  if  my  presence  is 

objectionable,  why,  I  will  retire. 

The  Chairman.  The  committee  wants  to  get  all  the  information  possible,  and 
if  you  have  some  information,  we  want  to  get  it. 

Colonel  Htjll.  Mr.  Chairman,  I  think  if  he  has  any  concrete  facts  that  he  has 
in  mind,  I  would  like  to  have  those  to  compare  with  our  records,  and  our  records 
are  available  and  have  been  available  to  the  Department  of  Justice  at  all  times. 
You  are  speaking  many  times,  in  many  cases  from  information.  Now,  whether 
that  information  is  correct,  or  not,  can  be  determined,  in  many  instances,  from 
our  records.  For  instance,  you  take  the  freiglit  payments,  have  you  got  infor- 
matiun  which  you  stated  yesterday,  that  they  had  been  charged  three  times 
illegal  freight?  Now,  that  is  your  information.  Now,  our  records — the  records 
right  here  in  WaiShiugton,  in  the  General  Accounting  Oflice,  will  show  whether 
there  are  any  such  facts,  and  such  instances. 

Mr.  McLane.  Just  exactly.  Now,  would  there  be  any  objection  to  the  De- 
partment of  Justice  finding  out  if  our  information  is  correct? 

Colonel  Huix.  No ;  that  is  the  exact  basis. 

Mr.  McLanb.  That  is  the  reason  I  thought  I  was  invited  here,  to  see  if  such 
information  as  I  have  is  authentic.  That  is  the  only  place  I  thought  it  could  be 
authenticated. 

Colonel  Hull.  If  your  information  is  produced,  we  will  determine  in  a  few 
minutes  whether  it  is  correct,  or  not. 

212  Mr.  Anderson.  I  think,  Mr.  Chairman,  I  can  make  this  statement,  if 
you  will  consent.     The  original  discussion  of  this  matter  arose  from  infor- 
mation— Mr.  McLane,  will  you  sit  down?     I  want  you  to  get  what  I  say. 

I\Ir.  McLane.  Mr.  Chairman,  I  think  it  is  best  I  withdraw. 

The  Chairman.  No,  sir ;  we  prefer  to  have  you  here. 

Mr.  McLane.  There  is  .some  opposition  here.  I  would  be  glad  to  have  access 
to  the  facts,  but  I  think  I  had  better  withdraw. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Mr.  Chairman,  as  counsel  for  the  Government,  Mr.  McLane  is 
invaluable  to  me.  He  is  the  United  States  attorney  for  the  middle  district  of 
Tennessee ;  he  is  the  officer  of  the  United  States  charged  with  the  duty  of 
inquiring  into  frauds  and  crimes  and  perjuries  within  that  district.  We  have 
evidence  that  impels  us  to  believe  that  a  crime  has  been  committed  in  the  middle 
district  of  Tennessee,  and  I  request  Mr.  McLane  to  remain  here  and  to  continue 
to  give  me  his  assistance. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Sit  down,  Mr.  McLane.  I  want  to  make  a  statement.  This 
matter  originally  arose  by  a  report 

Colonel  Hull.  We  might  excuse  the  witness. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Are  you  through  with  Major  Guise? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Major  Guise  was  called  this  morning  at  the  instance  of  Colonel 
Hull. 

Colonel  Hull;  I  am  through. 

The  Chairman.  Yes ;  we  can  excuse  him. 

(Thereupon  Mr.  Guise,  the  witness,  withdrew  from  the  room.) 

213  Mr.  Anderson.  This  matter  came  up  originally,  so  far  as  the  Depart- 
ment of  Justice  is  concerned,  through  a  report  from  Mr.  McLane  of  mat- 
ters that  had  come  to  his  attention  in  the  discharge  of  his  official  duties  at  Nash- 
ville, through  his  department  of  investigation.  The  Attorney  General  requested 
me  to  take  this  up  with  Mr.  McLane,  what  he  had  to  report,  as  it  belonged  to 
war  transactions,  and  to  reach  a  conclusion  as  to  anything  that  should  he  done. 

Now,  Mr.  McLane  and  his  officers  and  assistants  were  in  conference  with  me 
for  several  days,  and  I  referred  the  matter  to  Major  Carnduff,  and  to  Mr. 
Cameron  of  the  Bureau  of  Investigations,  and  to  Mr.  Cunningham  of  the  De- 
partment of  Investigation  under  Mr.  Burns,  and  they  went  down  to  Nashville 
to  make  a  personal  investigation  to  see  if  the  matter  required  further  investiga- 
tion. I  omitted  to  say  it  did  not  involve  the  officials  of  the  War  Department 
here,  but  was  a  local  matter.  However,  upon  the  information  they  i-eported, 
I  took  the  matter  up  and  wrote  to  the  Attorney  General  stating  that,  since  the 
matter  did  not  come  from  the  War  Department,  that  we  should  not  take  it 
up  from  this  end ;  but  if  there  were  any  local  crimes  in  Tennessee,  Mr.  McLane 
should  continue  to  tnke  it  up  and  handle  it  there,  unless  we  were  requested  by 
the  War  Department  to  take  it  up  here.  I  mean,  on  a  broad  investigation. 
That  correspondence  was  then  forwarded  to  the  General  Board  of  Survey ;  no 
reply  was  received. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3439 

Colonel  Hull.  No  letter  was  received  from  the  Department  of  Justice. 
Mr.  Anderson.  At  any  rate,  to  relieve  myself  and  not  to  have  it  stop  on  my 
doorstep,  I  asked  the  Board  of  Survey  to  take  it  up.     It  was  determined  then 
to  make  this  preliminary  survey,  v.-hich  is  all  this  hearing  is.     Then  I 

214  directed  Major  Carnduff,  in  order  to  get  the  matter  before  the  Board 
properly,  to  appear  as  counsel,  in  a  sense;  not  in  any  sense  as  prosecut- 
ing, but  to  assist  as  counsel,  because  he  had  investigated  the  matter  and  could 
ask  questions  intelligently,  and  I  could  not.  And  I  asked  ]Mr.  McLane  to  come 
here  and  assist  in  bringing  out  any  points  that  might  be  covered.  And  it  was 
in  that  sense  that  Mr.  McLane,  at  my  request,  is  here;  and  also  by  direction  of 
the  Attorney  General  he  was  requested  to  come  here  and  assist  us  in  this  in- 
vestigation. 

Colonel  Hull.  Up  to  date  none  of  the  witnesses  has  affected  Mr.  McLane's 
purposes  here. 

Mr.  Anderson.  No  ;  it  was  to  determine  in  the  first  place  whether  a  general 
audit  should  be  made ;  and,  second,  whether  there  were  any  facts  in  the  case 
that  would  require  a  reference  of  this  case — the  general  case,  a  reference  by 
the  War  Department  to  the  Department  of  Justice. 

Mr.  McLane's  local  in\'^stigation  in  Tennessee,  where  the  minor  and  detached 
matters  are  recorded,  are  matters  which  should  go  before  the  grand  jury  there, 
if  they  went  at  all  after  an  investigation :  but  he  could  be  of  great  assistance 
to  us,  and  also  we  could  be  of  assistance  to  him  in  informing  him  of  facts  as 
bearing  upon  his  duties  in  Tennessee. 

Colonel  Huix.  I  should  imagine  Mr.  McLane,  before  he  presented  any  of  this 
evidence  to  a  grand  jury,  would  want  to  investigate  the  information  he  had 
obtained,  whether  this  evidence  would  sustain  or  disprove  his  information. 

General  Williams.  I  think  Major  Carnduff  would  want  to  know  the 
same. 

215  Mr.   Carndutt.  I   have  l^een   waiting  an   opportunity   to   reply  to   the 
question  asked  me  by  General  Williams.     General  Williams  asked  me  a 

question,  and  I  did  not  have  an  opportunity  to  reply.  His  question  was  as  to 
why,  as  counsel  tor  the  Government,  I  had  not  examined  the  records  of  the 
War  Department  in  the  matter  of  accountancy.  Have  I  stated  the  question 
correctly.  General? 

General  Williams.  Insofar  as  I  am  able  to  ascertain  from  what  you  have 
said  and  your  witnesses  have  said,  you  have  not  examined  and  informed  your- 
self on  the  audit  that  has  already  been  made  of  this  contract. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Notwithstanding  the  fact  that  I  am  acting  under  the  direction 
of  the  Attorney  General  of  the  United  States  and  am  accountable  to  him  solely 
for  my  actions  in  this  regard.  I  desire  to  call  the  attention  of  this  committee 
to  a  report  signed  by  myself,  Mr.  McLane,  Mr.  Cameron,  and  Mr.  Cunningham 
of  the  Bureau  of  Investigation,  dated  December  12,  1922,  wherein  we  asked  that 
the  War  Department  be  requested  to  furnish  such  accountancy  and  data  as  is 
available  before  any  definite  and  complete  recommendations  are  made,  and  more 
particularly  the  following : 

"(1)  The  acquisition  of  real  propert.v ;  the  erection,  construction,  and  equip- 
ment of  the  Old  Hickory  plant. 

"(2)  A  complete  financial  statement  covering  the  operating  period  from  its 
inception  to  its  termination." 

And  also  to  the  following  letter  written  by  my  assistant,  dated  the  20th  day 
of  December  1922,  and  bearing  at  the  bottom  my  signature  in  concurrence 
thereof,  wherein  I  asked  and  recommended  that  the  War  Department  be  re- 
quested to  advise  the  Department  of  Justice  with  respect  to  the  following : 

216  "(1)    If  the  du  Pout  Engineering  Company  have  made  a  general  ac- 
counting to  the  United  States  Government  growing  out  of  its  relations' 

in  connection  with  its  contracts  for  the  acquisition  of  real  property ;  the  erec- 
tion, construction,   and   equipment   of  Old   Hickory  powder  plant. 

"(2)  That  if  such  general  accounting  has  been  made,  that  the  original  or 
■duplicate  original  of  such  report  be  made  available  to  the  Department  of 
Justice. 

"(3)  Whether  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  have  rendered  a  complete 
statement  of  operation  covering  the  productive  period  from  the  beginning 
of  its  operations  to  its  termination.  If  such  report  has  been  made,  that  the 
original  or  a  duplicate  thereof  be  made  available  to  the  Department  of  Justice. 

"(4)  That  the  Department  of  Justice  be  furnished  with  a  report  covering 
the  auditors'  examination  and  review  of  the  general  accounting  report  and 
statement  made  by  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company." 


3440  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

General  Williams,  we  requested  such  data  on  two  separate  occasions,  one  a 
week  after  the  other,  and  forwarded  them  to  the  Attorney  General.  After -we 
had  done  that  we  could  do  no  more. 

General  Williams.  Have  you  been  denied  access  at  any  time  to  the  records 
of  the  War  Department,  the  records  the  War  Department  has  in  the  matter 
of  this  contract?    Have  you  at  any  time  been  denied? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  No,  sir. 

General  Williams.  And  no  branch  of  the  Department? 
Mr.  Carnduff.  Nor  have  we  said  we  were  denied. 

217  General  Williajis.  The  thing  that  strikes  me,  you  have  not  availed 
yourself  of  the  information  you  could  have. 

Mr.  Cabnduff.  We  endeavored  to  get  the  information. 

Colonel  Hull.  Let  me  right  there  say  this :  When  I  heard  of  these  letters 
upon  my  return  from  Panama  in  March,  I  caused  a  thorough  search  of  the 
War  Department  to  be  made,  and  no  letter  has  come,  that  I  could  find,  from 
the  Department  of  Justice  to  the  War  Department ;  but  I  told  Colonel  An- 
derson and  Major  Carnduff  that  the  records  of  the  War  Department,  ir- 
respective of  any  letter,  are  open  to  them. 

Mr.  ANDE25SON.  And  it  was  then  that  this  matter  was  referred  to  this  com- 
mittee for  investigation.  That  is,  I  sent  these  papers  on  to  the  Attorney 
General,  and  it  was  to  some  extent  growing  out  of  the  circumstances  of  that 
character  that  I  suggested  to  the  Attorney  General  the  ci'eation  of  a  board 
of  this  kind.  The  papers  get  hung  up  in  that  direction,  and  they  naturally 
get  hung  up  in  the  other  direction  in  going  through  the  channels.  Therefore, 
I  suggested  that  before  we  undertook  to  make  a  checking  or  go  over  the- 
jludit — I  suppose  it  is  an  enormous  thing. 

Colonel  Hull.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  understand  they  are  at  Philadelphia. 

Colonel  Hull.  A  great  many  of  them  are. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  understand  they  fill  a  complete  room.     We  have  not  got 

the  force  to  check  these  papers.     And  my  idea  was  to  go  on  and  determine' 

whether  to   put  on   additional   auditors   and  make   this   audit.     And   without 

our  putting  on  our  force,  if  we  could  develop  whether  there  was  any  necessity 

for  the  amount  of  labor  that  would  be  required   for  the  District  At- 

218  torney's  oflice  to  go  behind  a  certain  situation  which  you  undertook  to 
locate  here  this  morning ;   to  determine  if  there  was  any  necessity  of 

going  behind  that.  It  was  to  avoid  all  that  labor  that  we  are  here,  I  under- 
stood. It  would  take  Mr.  Cameron's  force  six  months  to  get  any  information 
from  those  books. 

Colonel  Hull.  I  think  any  specific  question,  or  any  specific  information  that 
Mr.  McLane  has,  I  think  can  be  verified  in  24  hours,  on  any  point. 

General  Williams.  Mr.  Chairman,  I  would  like  to  make  my  position  clear 
on  this  point  which  has  arisen.  As  I  understood  the  object  of  this  committee 
getting  together  and  holding  this  conference,  it  was  to  determine  whether  a 
reaudit  was  necessary.  In  Mr.  Cameron's  replies  to  the  questions  that  he  was 
asked  by  the  Assistant  Secretary  and  myself,  it  seemed  to  me  that  he  indi- 
cated that  he  didn't  know  what  audits  had  already  been  made.  Now,  I  can't, 
myself,  understand  how  we  are  going  to  determine  whether  a  reaudit  is  neces- 
sary until  the  old  audit  has  been  examined  and  has  been  pronounced  insuf- 
ficient.   Am  I  wrong  in  that? 

Mr.  Andeirson.  No ;  but  I  thought  by  putting  the  various  persons  here  who- 
had  supervision  of  it  on  the  stand — having  them  come  before  us,  and  after 
we  understand  how  far  an  audit  was  made,  we  reach  the  point  where  we  can 
determine  whether  it  is  necessary  to  do  it  over  again. 

General  Williams.  If  that  audit  has  not  been  made,  it  should  be  made ;  if 
that  has  been  made,  it  seems  to  me  we  are  wasting  our  time  here. 

219  Mr.  Anderson.  Instead  of  sending  checkers  to  go  over  the  audit,  can 
we  not  find  out  here  how  far  it  has  gone,  so  we  do  not  have  to  do 

it  over? 

Colonel  Hull.  I  think  so. 

Mr.  McLane.  I  thought  that  was  the  pui'ijose  we  were  here  for. 

The  Chairman.  Yes ;  that  is  it. 

Colonel  Hull.  Yes ;  that  is  the  reason  we  are  here. 

Mr.  McLane.  That  is  the  purpose  for  which  I  came. 

Genei'al  Williams.  What  I  cannot  understand  is  how  these  gentlemen  can 
accept  any  charges  without  going  to  the  audit  and  seeing  whether  it  was  made. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Nobody  is  accepting  any  charges  at  all. 

Mr.  Williams.  The  charges  are  the  basis  of  everything  that  was  said  here. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3441 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  take  exception  to  that.  We  have  repeatedly  said  we  are  in 
a  judicial  capacit.v.  AVe  do  not  accept  any  charges.  I  do  not  think  the  charges 
are  the  basis  of  anything  that  was  said  here. 

General  Williams.  I  don't  know  what  your  legal  terms  are,  but  that  is  the 
reaction  in  my  mind. 

Mr.  Caknduff.  I  regret  you  have  that  reaction. 

The  Chairman.  Can  we  not  get  along,  gentlemen?  I  want  to  make  one  state- 
ment here  for  the  War  Department,  and  that  is  that  any  record  that  the  Depart- 
ment of  Justice  wants  at  any  time  in  any  case  is  always  available  from  the  War 
Department  to  the  Department  of  Justice. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  That  has  always  been  our  understanding. 

Mr.  Andekson.  Who  else  have  we  to  examine  this  morning? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  On  this  phase  of  the  question  the  next  witness  would  be  Major 
Farr. 
22U  Mr.  Andeeson.  Then  let  us  get  him  in. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  think  he  should  be  examined  by  Colonel  Hull,  or  some 
body  to  develop  the  facts. 

Colonel  Hull.  I  don't  krmw  anything  about  it. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Bring  him  in  and  I  will  examine  him. 

General  Williams.  If  they  have  not  asked  Major  Farr  any  questions,  and 
have  not  investigated  about  the  audit,  it  is  inconceivable  to  me. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  told  these  gentlemen  to  bring  the  case  here.  They  might 
have  taken  this  evidence  originally,  but,  being  a  case  of  such  wide  importance, 
I  suggested  that  they  let  us  hear  what  they  had  to  bring  out,  and  not  to  hear  it 
and  then  have  us  go  over  it  again.  They  would  take  days  going  over  it,  and 
then  we  would  have  to  repeat  their  work. 

General  Williams.  Mr.  Chairman,  here  are  these  people  who  have  had  charge 
of  this  audit  for  the  War  Department ;  unquestionably  they  approve  of  it,  and 
we  do  not  question  the  audit. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Neither  do  we.  But  suppose  a  lot  of  people  came  •to  you  and 
brought  evidence  of  what  they  claimed  to  l>e  proof  of  certain  facts  in  connection 
with  this  matter,  you  would  want  it  investigated. 

General  Williams.  Yes ;  and  I  would  want  to  find  out  what  the  basis  of  their 
evidence  is. 

Colonel  Hull.  We  want  the  facts. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  have  been  responsible  for  not  calling  Major  Farr.  I  have 
been  very  busy.  I  rather  desired  to  have  him  called  before  than  call  him  myself 
and  then  go  over  it  again. 

General    Williams.  Personally,    I    have    no    desire    to    have    Major     Farr 
called. 

221  Mr.  Andekson.  Can't  we  find  the  facts  and  find  out  what  they  did? 
General  Williams.  We  say  here  are  the  facts ;  there  are  the  records. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Gentlemen,  it  will  take  us,  to  go  over  these  records,  an  enor- 
mous anK)unt  of  time.     Of  course,  the  records  are  there. 

General  Williams.  Then  how  are  we  going  to  reach  a  conclusion? 

Colonel  Hull.  Mr.  McLane  says  he  has  evidence  of  certain  facts ;  he  doubts 
whether  an  audit  has  been  made ;  whether  there  has  been  an  audit. 

Mr.  McLane.  I  say  there  are  certain  irregularities  not  justified  by  any  audit. 
For  instance,  the  remaining  of  $29,000  in  an  independent  company  ;  that  does  not 
belong  to  one  Department  or  the  other. 

Colonel  Hull.  That  item  can  be  traced. 

Mr.  MoLanb.  I  am  informed  that  there  are  a  number  of  items  like  that  which 
should  be  checked.     I  have  numerous  items  of  that  kind. 

Colonel  Hltll.  Just  a  minute.  In  the  course  of  these  two  or  three  j'ears  of 
work  the  War  Department  has  had  probably  10,000  such  items  that  have  been 
investigated.  Now,  if  you  will  take  the  information  you  are  concerned  about 
and  take  the  records  to  the  officers  who  know  about  it,  that  can  all  be  determined 
as  to  whether  your  information  is  well  founded,  or  whether  it  can  be  shown  by 
the  records. 

Mr.  McLane.  Now,  would  you  say  that  a  matter  that  would  drift  into 

222  me  as  district  attorney,  and  if  I  sent  a  man  to  investigate  the  facts, 
would  you  say  that  I,  as  district  attorney,  would  be  justified  in  saying 

that  the  War  Department  has  this,  and  it  is  not  my  duty  to  call  it  to  yo'ur 
attention  and  ask  for  an  investigation,  or  that  an  investigation  be  made?  I'll 
be  justified  in  saying  it  was. 

Colonel  HxHX.  No,  Mr.  McLane ;  but  if  you  will  give  us  the  information,  we 
will  show  you  the  records  and  tell  you  whether  that  is  true.  You  have  in 
your  mind  something  about  cotton   linters.     We  have  recovered   $300,000  on 


3442  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

cotton  linters.    Maybe  that  is  the  very  evidence  that  the  War  Department  has 
recovered  on. 

Mr.  McLane.  Will  you  tell  me  how  I  can 

Colonel  HtiLL  (interposing).  You  have  not  asked  us  for  that  information. 

Mr.  McLane.  It  would  not  be  proper  for  me  to  address  you  direct. 

General  Williams.  No;  that  is  true. 

Mr.  McLane.  I  must  come  to  you  through  my  superiors. 

Colonel  Hru..  Take  with  reference  to  duplicate  payments  to  Cambria  Steel 
Is  that  one  of  them? 

Mr.  McLane.  I  don't  know. 

Colonel  Hull.  All  right ;  let  us  ask  Mr.  Peebles,  and  Mr.  Farr  about  it  and 
see  whether  it  is  or  not.  Let  us  ask  them  about  it.  You  would  have  to 
do  that  before  a  grand  jury. 

Mr,  McLanb.  Absolutely,  but  how  can  I  do  it  without  coming  here? 
Colonel  Hull.  You  are  here.    Let  us  go  ahead  and  do  it. 

223  Mr.  McLane.  What  I  can't  understand  is  that  there  seems  to  be  an 
idea  that  somebody  is  opposing  the  members  of  the  War  Department,  or 

the  War  Department  itself. 
•     General  Williams.  You  are  speaking  to  me.    I  have  no  such  idea. 

Mr.  McLanb.  I  take  that  statement,  and  accept  it  as  made.  General. 

Colonel  Hull.  Let  us  take  the  statement  of  Farr,  or  Guise  is  here. 

Mr.  McLanb.  Guise  has  taken  the  stand,  and  all  of  them  say  that  10  percent 
audit — 10  percent  of  the  whole  was  made. 

Colonel  Hull.  Do  you  believe  the  audit  of  October  1919  was  a  full  audit? 

Mr.  McLanb.  I  haven't  enough  infonnation  to  know  about  it. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Let  me  crystallize  this :  The  case  of  the  Old  Hickory  powder 
plant  has  not  been  referred  to  the  Department  of  Justice? 

Mr.  Anderson.  No. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Until  that  was  done  we  could  not  come  over  here  for  in- 
formation, until  the  formation  of  the  joint  sui-vev  board.  The  first  case  in- 
formation was  called  for  after  the  formation  of  the  joint  survey  board  was  the 
Old  Hickory  powder  case,  shortly  after  the  formation  of  the  board.  The  re- 
quest was  made  by  Mr.  Cameron  and  myself,  and  the  furnishing  of  the  informa- 
tion was  probably  defen-ed  until  the  hearing  of  the  case. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Yes ;  you  are  riglit.    The  Department  of  Justice  has  no  juris- 
diction to  investigate  it  until  it  is  referred  to  us. 

224  General  Williams.  We  are  not  standing  on  anything  of  that  kind. 
Mr.  Anderson.  It  is  a  technicality.     But  the  Department  of  Justice 

has  no  right  to  spend  its  time,  nor  have  I,  to  investigate  things  not  referred  to 
us.  Tliat  is  the  reasqn  I  sent  my  preliminary  inquiry  on  the  information  of 
the  district  attorney,  to  see  whether  the  Department  wanted  it  investigated. 
We  are  your  counsel.  We  do  not  want  to  force  it.  If  you  do  not  want  this 
thing  to  go  through,  let  us  stop  it.  We  are  your  counsel.  We  have  plenty  to 
do  in  our  department. 

The  Chairman.  Let  us  get  ahead,  gentlemen.  We  are  wasting  time.  I  am 
here  ex  officio  to  sit  with  the  committee.  This  committee  is  to  say  whether 
it  will  recommend  the  sending  of  the  information  to  the  Department  of  Justice. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Yes;  and  if  it  is  sent  to  the  Department  of  Justice  we  will 
take  the  matter  up. 

The  Chairman.  Let  us  go  ahead.     Call  Major  Farr. 

Mr.  Anderson.  And  if  it  is  sent  to  the  Department  of  Justice  you  will  not 
have  any  further  trouble  with  it.  We  will  go  to  the  records  and  find  out  for 
ourselves. 

Colonel  Hull.  One  of  the  questions  that  was  asked  was  about  cotton  linters.' 
We  asked  the  one  question  about  cotton  linters.  If  you  have  any  additional 
information  on  cotton  linters,  don't  you  think  it  would  be  well  to  present  it 
to  Mr.  Peebles? 

The  Chairman.  Here  is  Major   Farr. 

225      STATEMENT  OF  R.  E.  FARR,  SPECIAL  ASSISTANT  TO  THE  ATTORNEY 
GENERAL,  WASHINGTON,  D,  C. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Major  Farr,  you  are  now  special  assistant  to  the  Attorney 
General,  are  you  not? 
Mr.  Faer.  I  am. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Are  you  connected  with  the  War  Transaction  Section? 
Mr.  Farr.  Y'es,  sir. 
Mr.  Anderson.  Ordnance  Branch? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3443 

Mr.  Fabr.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now,  were  you  connected  with  the  War  Department  prior  to 
your  connection  with  the  Department  of  Justice? 

Mr.  P^ARB.  I  was. 

Mr.  Andeeson.  How  long,  approximately? 

Mr.  Farii.  Three  years  and  a  half  or  four  years,  I  think ;  something  like  that. 

Mr.  Andekson.  Then  you  were  connected  with  the  War  Department  up  to 
about  June  1922  weren't  you? 

Mr.  Fakr.  I  was. 

Mr.  Anderson.  During  that  period,  after  the  armistice,  were  you  connected 
with  the  Claims  Board  for  the  settlement  of  claims? 

Mr.  Fakr.  I  was,  as  attorney  for  the  Board  of  Contract  Adjustment,  and 
later  an  attorney  for  the  appeals  section. 

Mr.  Andebson.  Did  you  have  anything  to  do  with  the  contract  between  the 
Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  and  the  Government,  for  the  erection  of  the 
Old  Hickory  Powder  Plant? 
Mr.  Farr.  I  did.  ^ 

226  Mr.  Anderson.  State  when  your  connection  began  about  that,  and  how,, 
in  your  own  way,  please. 

Mr.  Fare.  During  the  time  that  I  was  a  major  judge  advocate  certain  papers 
were  forwarded  to  me  one  day  with  instructions  to  hear  representatives  of  the 
Engineering  Company  and  the  Government  auditors  that  were  to  appear  before 
me.  I  designated  a  hearing  room,  and  at  the  hour  appointed  I  went  in  there 
and  spent  a  day  or  a  day  and  a  half  listening  to  the  wrangle  between  the 
Government  officials  and  the  representatives  of  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Com- 
pany. After  that  I  wrote  a  couple  of  memoranda  on  the  subject,  and  prior  to 
my  discharge  from  the  Army  the  same  officials  and  the  auditors  appeared  in 
my  office  on  certain  angles  of  the  matter  that  they  had  presented  to  me  the 
first  day.  That,  primarily,  dealt  with  some  other  of  the  contracts,  as  well  as 
the  Old  Hickory  contract. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Who  was  the  auditor  you  speak  of? 

Mr.  Fare.  Mr.  G.  E.  Youmans  was  the  auditor  in  Philadelphia  who  was 
supposed  to  be  the  chief  accountant;  and  I  think  there  was  a  Mr.  J.  R.  Peebles 
also,  who  had  the  title  of  contracting  officer,  that  passed  on  the  vouchers. 

Mr.  Anderson.  There  were  differences  between  them  and  the  Du  Pont  officials 
as  to  the  settlement  of  the  accounts  at  Old  Hickory? 

Mr.  Farr.  Oh,  yes ;  grave  differences. 

Mr.  Anderson.  About  what  time  was  this? 

Mr.  Fare.  It  was  March  1921— February  and  March  1921. 

Mr.  Anderson.  February  and  March  1921  ? 
Mr.  Fabb.  Yes,  sir. 

227  Mr.  Anderson.  Then  what  further  connection  with  the  matter  did  you 
have  ? 

Mr.  Faer.  Why,  I  was  discharged  from  the  Army,  I  think,  in  June  1921. 

Mr.  Anderson.  In  1921? 

Mr.  Faer.  In  June  1921  and  about  five  days  after  that  Colonel  Hull's  office, 
or  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War's  Office  phoned  me,  and  I  came  down  here 
and  agreed  to  go  up  to  Philadelphia  to  take  charge  of  the  reaudit  and  see  if  I 
could  wind  it  up. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Major  Fai'r,  can  you  tell  approximately,  in  a  general  way, 
the  status  of  the  audit  and  proceeding  for  settlement  of  this  contract  at  the 
time  you  took  charge,  as  you  say,  at  Philadelphia? 

Mr.  Fare.  You  mean  how  far  it  had  progressed  ? 

Mr.  Anderson.  How  far  it  had  progressed,  and  what  was  its  status? 

]Mr.  Farr.  Well,  on  memoranda  that  I  had  written  while  a  member  of  the 
Claims  Board,  the  auditors  had  passed  certain  vouchers,  and  refused  to  pass 
others.  And  when  I  arrived  in  Philadelphia  I  found  a  large  force  of  men  work- 
ing on  those  vouchers,  and  they  were  divided  into  all  kinds  of  different  forces 
under  different  men,  with  variovis  duties.  There  was  a  lot  of  confusion,  and 
nobody  seemed  to  ha^■e  the  authority  to  say  what  they  should  do  and  what  they 
should  not  do.  So  I  jumped  in  and  attempted  to  say  what  they  should  do  and 
what  they  should  not.  I  consulte<l  with  Colonel  Hull  and  the  other  representa- 
tives of  the  War  Department,  and  when  Colonel  Hull  became  Acting  Judge 

228  Advocate  General,  I  then  took  the  matters  up  with  Colonel  Morrow,  and 
we  used  to  have  hearings  before  him,  at  which  hearings,  I  think  Major 

Booton  was  present,  and  I  think  Major  Cameron  Hawkins,  until  he  was  dis- 
charged from  the  service,  or  resigned. 


3444 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


Mr.  Anderson.  It  has  appeared  here  in  the  statements  of  someone— either 
Mr.  Youmans  or  Mr.  Peebles,  I  forget  which— to  the  effect  that  the  audit  was 
completed  of  this  contract  and  the  transactions  thereunder  to  the  extent  of 
about  90  percent;  that  there  were  certain  elements  that  were  not  completely 
audited,  and  that  you  then  made  a  settlement  for  what  was  still  owing  as  a 
lump  sum.  Now,  will  you  take  up  the  situation  and  tell  this  committee  just 
what  was  the  status  and  what  you  did;  and  where  you  deem  it  necessary  to 
do  so,  say  by  what  authority,  so  far  as  you  can  recall. 

Mr.  Pare.  The  various  questions  that  came  up,  of  course,  involved  the  pass- 
ing by  the  auditors  on  the  accounts  that  were  reimbursable  on  the  various 
voucliers  of  the  du  Pout  Engineering  Company.  Those  vouchers  covered  every 
kind  of  conceivable  expense;  there  were  expenses  for  labor;  for  funeral  ex- 
penses; for  materials  for  construction;  for  materials  for  operation;  for  freight 
bills,  and  everything  you  could  imagine  that  would  be  used  in  a  plant  of  that 
size  and  during  the  time  they  were  constructing  it.  The  auditors— and  by  audi- 
tors I  refer  to  Mr.  Peebles  and  Mr.  Youmans.  although  Mr.  Peebles  was  called 
the  contracting  officer — and  those  auditors  would  pass  on  the  vouchers,  and  they 
might  say,  "  I  don't  like  that  voucher  "  and  would  refuse  to  pass  it,  and  then 
those  would  come  to  me  for  decision. 

Mr.  Anderson.  In  other  words,  he  would  refuse  to  pass  it  for  want  of  proper 
supporting  evidence? 

229  Mr.  Farb.  Not  always  that,  but  he  would  say  that  even  if  the  evidence 
was  proper,  he  might  say  that  it  should  not  be  paid.     For  instance,  take 

funeral  expenses.  One  man's  funeral  expense  was  considered  high,  and  he 
refused  to  pay  it.  It  came  to  me,  and  I  refused  to  allow  it.  It  was  appealed 
from  my  decision.  The  evidence  showed  that  the  money  had  been  expended  for 
the  purpose  alleged,  and  the  attachments  to  the  voucher  were  sufficient,  but 
notwithstanding  it  was  sufficient,  in  our  opinion  the  expenditure  was  out  of  all 
reason,  and  should  not  have  been  allowed. 

Now.  when  those  things  come  to  me— and  I  attempted  to  get  the  vouchers 
under  different  heads,  so  that  one  decision  would  dispose  of  all  vouchers  coming 
under  that  head.  I  would  have  my  auditors  pass  on  it  and  take  it  up  with 
the  du  Pont  people,  and  then  write  a  memorandum  decision  or  opinion  either 
directing  them  to  pass  it  or  directing  them  to  refuse  to  pass  it.  In  every  deci- 
sion, practically,  that  I  made,  that  was  against  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Com- 
pany— with  a  few  exceptions — they  noted  an  appeal  to  Colonel  Morrow,  and 
then  we  came  to  Washington  with  their  attorney  and  myself,  and  the  repre- 
sentiitives  of  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  and  we  had  a  hearing  before 
Colonel  Morrow,  and  naturally  he  reversed  me  in  part  and  sustained  me  in 
part.  Whenever  he  reversed  me  they  were,  of  course,  satisfied ;  but  when  he 
sustained  me  and  upheld  my  decision  they  said,  "  We  will  go  to  the  Assistant 
Secretary  of  War."  We  had  a  number  of  liearings  before  the  Assistant  Secre- 
tary of  War  which  disposed  of  my  decisions  on  appeals  which  the  du  Pont 
people  had  taken  from  Colonel  Morrow  to  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War. 

230  Colonel   Htjll.  In   some  cases   didn't   Mr.   Peebles   and   Mr.    Youmans 
bring  to  the  attention  of  the  Secretary  some  decisions  that  had   been 

favorable? 

Mr.  Fark.  The  one  that  I  remember  particularly  was  the  Mason-Hanger  case. 
I  rendered  an  opinion  while  in  the  Ai-my  on  the  Mason-Hanger  contract.  The 
decision  speaks  for  itself,  if  anyone  cares  to  see  it.  After  that  they  had  been 
allowed  quite  a  sum  of  money,  fees  paid  subcontractors.  And  in  this  hearing, 
when  before  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War,  Colonel  Morrow  and  INIr.  Cassel 
objected  to  that,  with  the  result  that  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War,  Wain- 
wright,  forwarded  it  to  the  Claims  Section,  and  being  forwarded  there  by  the 
Assistant  Secretary  of  War 

Mr.  Anderson.  Go  ahead.     What  did  you  do? 

Mr.  Fare.  Now,  there  were  a  tremendous  pile  of  vouchers,  and  to  anyone 
who  has  not  seen  them  you  cannot  visualize  the  pile  of  work  there.  There 
were  vouchers  in  various  conditions,  the  paper  being  worn  out  and  chewed  up, 
by  constant  handling.  Mr.  Peebles  would  scrap  directly  first  with  the  repre- 
sentatives of  the  du  Pont  Company,  and  as  I  say,  if  they  could  not  get  together, 
they  would  come  over  to  me  and  I  would  write  a  decision  or  memorandum,  and 
then  they  would  handle  it. 

Now.  I  understood  that  some  question  has  been  raised  about  the  percent  of 
the  audit  of  the  material  receipt  vouchers.  I  was  told  someone  had  made  the 
statement  that  only  10  percent  had  been  audited. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3445 

On  October  7,  1921,  which  was  shortly  after  I  began  on  this,  I  took  the  mat- 
ter up  with  Mr.  Peebles  as  to  what  extent  delivery  had  been  established 

231  on  materials  on  various  contracts.     And  under  date  of  October  7th  he 
advised  me  that 

Colonel   Hull    (interposing).  What   year.   Major? 

Mr.  Farb.  1921.     [Reading  from  memorandum:] 

"Referring  to  conversation  of  today  with  reference  to  establishing  delivery 
of  materials  on  the  various  contracts,  we  have  established  delivery,  through 
the  eftorts  of  our  investigators  and  information  which  we  have  been  able  to 
develop,   approximately  as  follows : 

"  Ives,  9S  percent ; 

"  Seven  Pines,  all  vouchers  except  three ; 

"  Penuiman  construction,  80  percent ;   Penniman  operation,  90  percent ; 

"  Tulleytown,  60  percent ; 

"  Old  I-Iickory,  operation  and  construction,  90  percent." 

After  I  got  this  from  Mr.  Peebles,  who  had  been  working  on  this,  I  issued 
a  memorandum  that  for  the  administration  of  vouchers,  they  should  cease 
to  attempt  to  establish  the  deliveries  of  the  materials  that  were  supposed  to 
be  covered  by  these  vouchers,  and  to  accept  the  vouchers.  We  did  that,  except 
where  the  vouchers,  themselves,  on  their  face  showed  there  was  something 
wrong  about  them,  and  then  in  each  case  we  compelled  the  du  Pont  Engineer- 
ing Compiuiy  to  submit  additional  and  other  information. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now,  Major,  will  you  state  why  you  gave  those  instructions? 

Mr.  Parr.  Why,  I  presume  that  I  discussed  the  matter  with  the  officers  of 

the  War  Department  with  whom  I  was  working,  and  my  recollection  is  that 

we  were  not  establishing  sufficient  recovery  money  to  justify  the  con- 

232  tinned  expense  of  verifying  the  other  10  percent,  or  whatever  percent 
it  was  on  the  various  contracts.     In  other  words,  I  could  not  see  where, 

by  spending  a  dollar  to  collect  fifty  cents,  that  I  was  helping  anything,  so  I 
quit.     That  is  my  recollection. 

Mr.  Anderson.  And  you  gave  that  order  to  discontinue  undertaking  to 
establish  the  actual  delivery^ — check  the  actual  delivery  in  the  remaining  un- 
established  deliveries,  because  your  experience  demonstrated  at  that  time 
that  the  amount  established  by  such  elaborate  checking  did  not  pay  the  cost 
of  the  work? 

Mr.  Farr.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now,  let  me  ask  you :  It  has  been  stated  here,  I  think, 
that  at  the  time  that  instruction  was  given,  that  there  was  an  undisposed- 
of  voucher,  or  undisposed-of  vouchers  in  suspense  on  the  Old  Hickory  con- 
tract to  the  amount  of  about  $5,000,000? 

Mr.    Farr.  Covering   what? 

Mr.  Anderson.  In  the  Old  Hickory  contract. 

Mr.    Farr.  But  covering   what? 

Mr.  Anderson.  Covering  operation  and  construction. 

Mr.  Farr.  Well,  I  have  not  made  myself  plain;  covering  receipt  of  materials? 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  don't  think  it  was  very  clear ;  that  there  were  items  that 
had  been  put  in  suspense  to  the  amount  of  $5,000,000  balance  on  these  Old 
Hickory  contracts. 

Mr.  Farr.  Well,  that  statement  could  be  correct  and  yet  not  show  anything, 

because  at  the  time  that  I  wrote  this  memorandum  I  had  not  been  reversed  in 

part  by  the  higher  officials  and  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War,  and  the 

233  total    items    that    I    had    disallowed    might    run    5,000,000;    I    don't    re- 
member.   I  could  establish  that  approximately,  I  think,  by  going  over  the 

files  or  the  new  files  that  were  left  at  Frankfort  Arsenal. 

General  Williams.  And  that  then  would  be  only  a  portion  of  it? 

Mr.  Farr.  Oh,  yes ;  these  vouchers  covered  all  sorts  of  things ;  scouting 
for  labor;  funeral  expenses;  cars,  and  every  conceivable  thing  that  could  be 
used  down  there. 

Major  BooTON.  And  bonuses? 

Mr.  Farr.  Yes ;  that  was  a  big  item. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  will  come  to  that  later. 

Mr.  Farr.  The  going-away  bonuses. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Before  you  get  to  that,  let  me  ask  you :  Up  to  the  time  you 
gave  these  instructions,  every  audit  was   a   complete  audit? 

Mr.  Farr.  Every  voucher  was,  unless  the  men  lied  to  me ;  if  they  did,  my 
information  was  wrong. 


3446  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Anderson.  Well,  everybody  may  be  subject  to  that. 

Mr.  Farb.  Iliere  were  upwards  of  150  or  175  men.  I  had  to  depend  on  my 
men.  Before  I  said,  "  Quit ;  you  are  getting  nothing  ",  I  said  to  Mr.  Peebles, 
"How  much  are  you  getting?"  He  said,  "Nothing."  Up  to  that  time  he  had 
liandled,  so  far  as  I  know,  every  voucher ;  he  passed  on  every  voucher,  and  then 
I  said  to  quit. 

Mr.  Anderson.  You  told  him  to  quit  checking  actual  delivery  of  material, 
or  did  you  tell  him  to  quit  auditing  vouchei'sV 

234  Mr.   Fakr.  Oh,   we  put   them   all   through   the  books.      I   told  him   to 
quit  demanding  of  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  supporting  papers, 

if  what  they  said  on  their  paper  was  true. 

Colonel  HvjA..  On  materials? 

Mr.  Farr.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  On  materials  alone? 

Mr.  Fare.  Yes,  sir. 

i\Ir.  Anderson.  Now,  in  order  to  get  at  the  bottom  of  this.  It  has  been  espe- 
cially urged  on  our  attention  that  the  amounts  for  bonus  were  in  suspense. 
What  took  place  about  the  bonus? 

Mr.  Farr.  That  is  rather  a  long  story? 

Mr.  ANDE2JS0N.  Make  it  as  short  as  you  can ;  we  are  not  interested  in  the 
details. 

Mr.  Farr.  The  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  first  presented  a  voucher  cov- 
ering a  payment  of  bonus  to  men  of  30,  45,  and  60  days,  supposed  to  have  been 
based  on  the  length  of  time  each  man  had  served  with  the  parent  company 
and  with  the  Government.  I  didn't  like  that  and  disallowed  it,  and  said  that 
the  only  portion  that  we  should  assume  would  be  the  proportion  of  time  that  he 
had  worked  for  the  Government  bore  to  the  time  that  he  had  worked  for  the 
parent  company  to  entitle  him  to  the  30,  45,  and  60  days.  So  then  du  Pont 
comes  back  and  said  perhaps  they  were  a  little  harsh,  or  something,  and  that 
they  will  take  a  30-day  straight  bonus  right  through.  I  didn't  back  down ;  I 
stuck  to  my  position  ;  and  they  brought  it  down  to  Colonel  Morrow ;  and  I  don't 
know  who,  but  either  Colonel  Morrow  or  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War — 
the  papers  will  show — accepted  the  30-day  bonus.  That  is  my  recollection 
of  it. 

235  Mr.  Anderson.  Now,  there  were  also  various  travel  vouchers  which 
were  said  to  have  been  thrown  out  because  unsupported. 

Mr.  Farr.  The  travel  vouchers  caused  all  kinds  of  trouble  and  near  fights  and 
everything  else.  The  travel  vouchers  from  all  over — all  kinds  of  points  came 
up.  For  instance,  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  hired  a  man  in  New  York 
and  sent  him  to  the  plant,  and  when  the  job  for  which  he  was  hired  was  over. 
they  sent  him  to  Kalamazoo;  and  then  they  charged  that  travel  up  to  us.  If 
they  could  reasonably  show  us  they  had  hired  him  from  New  York  we  allowed 
the  return  voucher  to  New  York,  but  would  allow  no  greater  distance  than  that. 
Then  we  had  the  matter  come  up  where  they  hired  a  man  and  sent  him  tQ 
Wilmington,  but  he  had  to  be  sent  to  Carneys  Point  for  instruction.  The  ques- 
tion there  involved  from  what  point  should  we  assume  his  transportation  and 
where  should  we  return  him.  I  think  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War  sustained 
me  in  my  decision  on  the  point  that  we  should  return  him  to  a  point  no  greater 
distance  away  than  where  he  was  hired.  Now.  there  were  a  great  number  of 
those  travel  vouchers,  and  we  fought  those  over. 

Mr.  Anderson.  There  have  been  statements  made  here  that  in  some  cases  the 
company  would  give  an  amount  to  the  individuals  in  a  lump  sum,  but  have  no 
evidence  that  he  traveled  at  all.     What  did  you  do  with  a  voucher  like  that? 

Mr.  Farr.  My  recollection  is  that  if  we  got  a  voucher  like  that  that  we 
demanded  some  proof — some  reasonable  proof  that  the  man  had  traveled.  We 
didn't  think  the  du  Pont  people  had  any  right  to  make  a  present  of  the  Govern- 
ment's money  to  anybody.  That  is  my  recollection.  I  think  there  are  some 
decisions  that  would  throw  light  on  that. 

236  Mr.  Anderson.  I'our  decisions  weir  all  in  writing  on  these  matters? 
Mr.  Farr.  I  think  the  niajoriry  of  them.     There  may  have  been  a  few. 

Colonel,  that  were  verbal.  I  wil  say  that  I  turned  what  I  have  here — some  I 
didn't  get ;  some  were  left  in  the  War  Department — I  turned  them  over  to 
Major  Carnduff,  when  I  found  this  was  coming  up,  and  to  Mr.  Kileen. 

I\Ir.  Carndufd.  You  furnished  me  all  the  information  you  have? 

Mr.  Farr.  Yes.  There  is  a  large  file  in  the  Frankfort  Ar.senal  that  will  show 
what  was  done. 

Mr.  ANDERaoN.  You  mean  tliey  are  up  there  now? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3447 

Mr.  Farb.  Yes :  I  was  up  there  a  while  a.go  and  got  for  Major  Carnduff  these 
files  relating  to  the  audits  and  the  bonuses. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  And  the  pay  roll? 

Mr.  Farr,.  I  don't  remember  the  pay  roll. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now,  then,  Major,  to  get  on ;  it  has  been  suggested  here  that 
there  was  no  audit  made  of  the  freight  charges  on  materials  there  for  operation 
or  construction,  and  that  those  freight  charges  were  very  excessive  ;  and  it  has 
been  also  suggested  that  this  was  possil)ly  not  made  because  the  Government 
was  operating' the  railroads  at  the  time,  but  that  it  gave  opportunity  for  fraud 
between  the  payment  and  the  amount  received  by  the  railroads.  In  other 
words,  that  the  Government  would  pay  three  times  the  freight  charge  it  should, 
and  the  agent  might  account  for  the  actual  freight  charge,  and  the  balance 
would  be  divided.  That  it  might  occur.  Did  you  investigate  that  or  did  that 
come  to  your  attention? 

237  Mr.  Farb.  I  don't  think,  unless  in  some  discussion  with  Mr.  Peebles, 
that  was  ever  suggested  to  me ;  that  perhaps  the  railway-station  agent 

was  in  cahoots  with  the  shipper  and  thereby  mulcting  the  Government.  The 
freight  proposition  came  up. 

Mr.  Anderson.  What  did  you  do  with  it? 

Mr.  Fakb.  I  found  a  large  end  of  a  room  devoted  to  freight  audits.  I  asked 
them  what  they  were  doing,  and  they  said  auditing  freight.  My  recollection 
is  they  were  auditing  to  100  per  cent  of  the  freight  charges  during  the  time 
That  the  i-ailroads  were  not  under  the  control  of  the  United  States  Govern- 
ment, and  that  the  same  thing  applied  to  express  bills  during  the  time  that  the 
express  companies  were  opei'ating  for  themselves ;  and  that  where  they  showed 
erroneous  charges  were  made  claims  were  filed,  and  we  collected  a  substan- 
tial amount  of  money,  in  comparison. 

Mr.  Anderson.  You  didn't  do  it  while  the  railroads  were  in  Government 
hands? 

Mr.  Fabr.  Now,  I  discussed  this  with  Mr.  Peebles,  and  found  out  that  what 
they  were  then  working  on  involved  a  period  in  which  the  railroads  were  oper- 
ated by  the  United  States  Railroad  Administration.  And  under  date  of  August 
19,  1921,  I  gave  Mr.  Peebles  this  memorandum.  It  is  headed  "  Special  audit 
of  freight  bills",  in  capital  letters.     [Reading:] 

"As  a  result  of  the  conference  with  you  this  moi'ning,  it  is  my  information 
and  opinion  that  the  following  conditions  exist  in  the  continued  audit  of  freight 
bills : 

"(1)  That  from  a  monetary  standpoint  the  amount  of  money  that  might  be 
lecoverable  from  other  than  the  Railway  Administration  on  account  of  over- 
charges will  not  justify  the  expense  of  any  further  freight  audit. 

238  "(2)   That  the  amount  of  money  that  might  be  recovered  from  vendors 
on  account  of  freight  erroneously  paid  to  them  would  not  justify  a  con- 
tinued audit  of  the  freight  bills. 

"(3)  That  the  continued  audit  of  freight  bills  will  only  help  to  tie  up  and 
prove  the  receipt  of  materials  at  the  ])laut. 

"  You  are,  therefore,  directed,  pending  final  decision  on  shortage,  damage  to, 
and  non-receipt  of  materials,  to  discontinue  the  audit  of  the  freight  bills." 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  did  not  get  the  last  point  clear.  Do  you  mean  by  that  that 
you  would  only  audit  freight  bills  where  there  was  a  question  of  the  receipt  of 
the  property? 

Mr.  Farr.  No  ;  I  mean  pending  v/hat  decision  I  might  make  on  material 
vouchers.  You  understand,  these  vouchers  had  various  names ;  we  called  a 
voucher  on  material  at  the  plant  a  "  material  voucher." 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  see. 

Mr.  Farr.  I  didn't  want  to  commit  myself  to  that  so  that  they  would  put  in 
those  vouchers. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  see ;  you  left  that  audit  open  as  to  the  material  for  the 
plant  and  the  freight? 

Mr.  Farb.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  There  you  left  the  question  open? 

Mr.  Farr.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  But  where  there  was  an  audit  for  establishing  discrepancies 
in  freight  charges,  you  discontinued  it? 

Mr.  Farr.  Yes,  sir;  and  I  didn't  take  it  up  again,  for  this  reason:  I  came 
down  here  to  Washington  one  time  and  tried  to  persuade  the  Railroad 

239  Administration  to  pay  me  for  the  War  Department  some  .$18,000  that 
the  Central  Tennessee  Railroad  and  some  other  railroad  down  there  had 

received  as  an  overpayment  on  freight ;  and  the  Railroad  Administration  said, 


3448  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  . 

"No;  we  are  not  going  to  pay  you  any  money."  My  recollection  is  whoever  I 
was  talking  to  said,  "  Not  a  damned  cent."  I  said,  "  Here  are  the  hills."  He 
said,  "And  here  is  the  release,  too  ",  and  he  produced  a  general  release  from 
the  War  Department  to  the  Railroad  Administration,  whereby  it  appeared  that 
they  had  struck  a  balance,  and  the  War  Department  had  paid  the  Railroad 
Administration  a  considerable  amount  of  money,  or  vice  versa,  and  they  had 
called  it  square.  And  I  couldn't  persuade  them  to  pay  me.  He  said,  "  You 
shouldn't  have  had  some  damned  fool  down  there  who  is  paying  your  money 
out."  I  didn't  fool  any  more  with  freight  bills,  because  I  didn't  see  where  I 
could  come  out. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Did  I  understand  then  there  was  a  lOOpercent  audit  made 
of  freight  bills  for  the  period  of  private  operation,  as  distinguished  from  Gov- 
ernment oi:)eration? 

Mr.  Farr.  That  is  my  recollection. 

Mr.  Andekson.  Why  did  you  give  the  instructions  not  to  continue  tlie  audit 
further? 

Mr.  Farr.  Because  I  didn't  see  any  use  in  the  War  Department  setting  up 
a  lot  of  expense,  such  as  overcharges  against  the  Railroad  Administration, 
and  have  the  Railroad  Administration,  which  was  the  Government,  pay  it  to  us. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Then  you  discontinued  it  as  to  the  Government  operation? 

Mr.  Fare.  My  recollection  is  at  the  time  I  suspended  it  we  had  audited 
240  all  bills  that  were  current  during  the  time  the  railroads  were  running 
the  railroads  for  themselves,  and  that  also  applied  to  the  express  bills. 
And  I  quit  it  because  I  couldn't  see  where  we  were  getting  any  money ;  and  if 
I  did  set  up  a  big  charge  against  the  Railroad  Administration,  it  was  the  Gov- 
ernment taking  its  money  out  of  its  right  pocket  and  putting  it  in  its  left 
pocket. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Did  you  reach  a  final  accounting  with  the  du  Pont  Company 
before  you  left  the  Government,  or  what  took  place?  I  suggest  this  question 
for  this  point?  It  was  suggested  that  it  was  settled  for  a  lump  sum,  and  I 
would  like  to  know  what  you  did  in  this  connection. 

Mr.  Farr.  I  did  this.  Along  in  1922,  I  think  it  was.  Colonel  Morrow  phoned 
me  to  know  if  I  couldn't  come  here  and  help  with  some  matters  here.  I  left 
Mr.  Kileen  up  there  alone,  most  of  tlie  clerks  having  been  discharged.  I  came 
down.  We  never  arrived  at  any  lump-sum  settlement.  We  had  passed,  as  I 
suggested,  certain  vouchers  of  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  and  I  had 
disallowed  certain  vouchers,  aggregating  quite  a  sum  of  money..  They  had 
appealed  to  Colonel  Morrow,  and  he  had  reversed  me  in  part.  And  I  had 
directed  Mr.  Kileen  to  accept  certain  vouchers  that  had  been  passed  by  Colonel 
Morrow.  The  other  matters  were  apjiealed  to  the  Secretary  of  War,  Mr. 
Wainwright,  and  he  also  allowed  certain  things  that  I  disallowed.  And  the 
things  wherein  he  sustained  me  ran  up  to  about  .$300,000.  And  at  the  time 
I  left  the  War  Department  I  understood  those  things  were  still  standing  dis- 
allowed, and  the  du  Pont  people  never  accepted  it,  and  I  think  their  attorney 
admitted  the  other  day  that  they  had  not  been  accepted.  So  if  the  War 
241  Department  had  any  lump-sum  agreement  with  the  du  Pont  Company 
I  never  knew  it.  You  understand  I  handled  not  only  the  Old  Hickory, 
but  the  five  contracts.  And  some  time,  about  the  end  of  May,  Mr.  Kileen  had 
to  set  up  an  audit  showing  the  amounts  suspended  and  the  amount  paid.  The 
du  Pont  Engineering  Company  still  have,  I  suppose,  about  a  million  dollars 
due  the  Government  left  off  some  advances  made  to  them  and  not  reimbursed. 

Mr.  Anderson.  The  purpose  of  this  survey  that  the  committee  is  making, 
as  I  understand,  is  to  ascertain  whether  the  situation  in  respect  to  the  du  Pont 
contract  would  justify  the  expense  of  a  reaudit ;  and,  second,  whether  there 
are  any  conditions  or  circumstances  which  can  be  developed  in  a  preliminary 
and  superficial  survey  of  this  character  which  would  justify  the  committee 
in  recommending  that  the  case  be  sent  over  to  the  Department  of  Justice  for 
further  action,  either  civil  or  criminal,  in  the  interests  of  the  Government.  I 
wish  you  would  state,  from  your  knowledge  of  this  case,  your  views  on  that 
subject,  on  both  sides,  if  you  know  anything  about  it  or  any  phase  of  it. 

Mr.  Farr.  Well,  from  the  earliest  inception — from  the  earliest  time  that  I 
heard  anything  about  this  case,  I  heard  the  usual  rumors  that  they  were 
crooked,  and  that  there  had  been  money  spent  that  should  not  have  been  spent; 
and  the  audit  that  I  made — of  course  had  made— I  didn't  do  it — wherever  we 
saw  anything  that  looked  crooked,  it  was  suspended  or  called  to  the  attention 
of  the  higher  officials  of  the  Department.     And  if  you  are  asking  for  my  opinion, 

I  don't  tlunk   that  we  would  be  justified  in  reopening  this  case  on  a  gen- 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3449 

242  eral  audit,  unless  you  have  got  some  reasonable  evidence  to  assure  that 
certain  accusations  can  be  supported.  In  other  words,  if  you  have  got 
something  about  paycar  shortages,  or  something  like  that,  and  you  have  some- 
thing reasonable,  you  might  look  into  that.  But  I  don't  think  we  would  recover 
enough  to  justify  if  we  jumi^ed  in  on  a  general  reaudit.  Of  course,  I  don't 
know  what  evidence  you  have  got  here.     I  am  wholly  in  the  dark. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Let  me  ask  you  this :  You  spoke  of  when  you  found  anything 
crooked  you  brought  it  to  the  attention  of  the  higher  officials.  Did  you  find 
anything  crooked? 

Mr.  Farr.  I  perhaps  was  reckless  in  the  use  of  the  word  "  crooked." 
Mr.  Anderson.  That  is  a  dangerous  word. 

Mr.  Fabr.  I  should  have  said,  perhaps,  anything  that  was  suspiciovis.  I 
simply  mean  things  like  this :  For  instance,  there  were  men  who  evidently 
faked  the  pay  roll,  and  they  came  in  for  weeks  and  weeks  and  faked  the  pay 
roll.  I  disallowed  that  voucher  and  claim  on  the  ground  that  if  it  happened 
once  it  might  happen  in  such  a  large  body  of  men,  but  if  it  happened  for 
months  and  months  there  must  be  something  lacking  in  the  system,  and  the 
du  Fonts  should  pay  for  it. 

I  also  disallowed  a  voucher  for  the  absconding  of  a  labor  scout.     The  du 
Pont  people  were  supposed  to  bond  these  fellows,   and  this  one  they  didn't 
bond,  and  he  got  away  with  some  $1,500  or  $2,000.     Perhaps  I  was  reversed 
in  that  case,  but  I  disallowed  the  voucher. 
Major  BooTON.  I  think  you  were  in  this  case. 
Mr.  Carnduff.  That  money  was  paid. 
243  Mr.  Farr.  I  think  it  was.     And  then  there  was  also  a  question,  there 

seemed  to  be  some  thievery  at  the  hospital ;  a  man  would  be  put  in  a  hos- 
pital and  his  suitcase  and  all  his  belongings  wou,ld  be  taken.  They  presented 
vouchers  for  that.  I  disallowed  those.  It  looked  to  me  like  there  was  some- 
thing lacking  in  their  supervision,  and  I  disallowed  those  vouchers.  Perhaps 
the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War  or  Colonel  Morrow  reversed  me;  the  records 
will  show. 

Now,  some  of  the  travel  vouchers  were  disallowed.  Mr.  Peebles  is  a  good 
man,  and  it  did  look  like  in  some  of  these  travel  vouchers,  in  some  claims  they 
were  too  liberal  in  the  damnge  allowed  to  furniture  and  things  like  that,  and 
we  disallowed  them.  We  disallowed  vouchers  to  the  amount  of  a  number  of 
thousands  of  dollars. 

Mr.  Anderson.  There  was  evidence  here  of  the  disallowance  of  claims  for 
damages  to  furniture  and  claims  against  the  railroads  for  damages.     Did  you 
ever  deal  with  them? 
Mr.  Farr.  I  did. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Did  you  disallow  them? 

Mr.  Farr.  I  think  I  allowed  damage  to  furniture  in  some  cases,  because  I 
couldn't  prove  it  was  not  damaged,  and  if  the  railroad  damaged  it,  it  was  an- 
other claim  against  the  Government ;  we  were  operating  the  railroads.  In 
some  instances,  I  think,  I  demanded  proof  of  the  du  Pont  Company  that  this 
furniture  had  been  damaged.  There  may  be  some  I  passed  without  proof. 
Mr.  Anderson.  Did  you  have  dealings  with  a  man  in  the  du  Pont  Company 
who  presented  these  claims  and  looked  after  them? 
244  Mr.  Farr.  Yes ;  a  Mr.  Brittou  used  to  come  over  and  fight  with  me 

about  them,  and  if  I  made  it  too  hot  for  him  he  would  go  back  to  Mr. 
Haskell  and  the  other  fellows,  the  higher  officials,  and  they  would  shoot  him 
full  of  pep,  and  then  he  would  come  back  and  fight  with  me  some  more. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Did  you  have  dealings  with  the  controller  of  the  du  Pont 
Company  at  all? 

Mr.  Fakr.  Only  if  you  call  Mr.  Schaefer  the  controller,  I  had  dealings  with 
the  controller.  As  I  say,  when  I  got  them  in  a  corner  they  always  had  to  go  to 
see  Mr.  Schaefer  or  the  higher  officials. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Did  you  find  cooperation,  or  a  disposition  for  obstruction, 
among  the  officers  of  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company? 

Mr.  Fakr.  When  I  first  went  to  Philadelphia  I  found  that  the  relations  be- 
tween the  Government  and  the  du  Pont  people  were  very  bad ;  they  were  at 
each  other's  throats,  and  everybody  thought  everybody  else  was  a  crook.  That 
continued  for  a  little  while,  until  I  could  get  it  straightened  out  and  secure 
cooperation.  But  when  I  had  to  move  to  Wilmington,  when  the  office  was 
closed  at  1710  Market  Street,  Philadelphia,  I  got  away  from  that.  I  told  them 
I  didn't  care  what  anybody  else  had  done ;  I  wanted  to  get  this  job  done.  And 
then  they  did  try  to  give  me  cooperation,  although  they  were  always  rather 


'3450  MuisriTioNS  industky 

insistent  tlie  "  tlie  king  could  do  no  wrong  " ;  they  liad  done  it,  and  it  was  right. 
But  when  I  would  demand  proof  they  got  it  to  the  best  of  their  ability.  And 
they  liad  a  buncli  of  men  hunting  proof  all  tlie  time.  I  see  one  of  the  men 
here  now  that  I  sent  to  Penniman  to  get  evidence  on  tlie  pay  roll  and  as 
245      to  the  methods  of  tlie  labor  scouts. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now,  did  you,  in  your  dealings  with  the  du  Pont  Com- 
pany, come  in  contact  with  the  local  situation  at  Nashville  at  all.  or  at  Old 
Hickory? 

Mr.  Farr.  Well,  Mr.  Peebles  liad  a  bunch  of  men  there  at  Old  Hickory  that 
were  auditing  the  Mason-Hanger  vouchers ;  primarily  tlie  vouchers  of  Mason- 
I-Ianger,  showing  the  receipt  of  materials.  And  having  that  bunch  of  men  there 
and  seeing  them,  I  wanted  to  know  what  they  were  doing.  He  said  they  were 
checking  the  Mason  and  Hanger  vouchers.  I  asked  him  liow  long  they  had 
b?en  at  it,  and  he  said  they  had  been  at  it  a  long  while.  I  asked  him  what  he 
expected  to  do.  Well,  they  expected  to  show  a  duplication  of  the  Mason-Hanger 
pay  roll  for  a  time.  So  as  soon  as  I  could  I  went  to  Old  Hickory — I  liad  been 
tliere  during  the  war — but  I  went  back  to  Nashville  and  sent  for  a  Govern- 
ment car — I  think  Major  O'Shaughnessy  was  there  at  the  time,  and  he  sent  his 
car  for  me,  and  I  went  and  investigated  what  they  were  doing.  They  had 
auilitiirs.  and  they  had  one  or  more  stenographers,  and  I  forget  how  many 
clerks,  und  they  bad  not  showed  any  duplication.  I  wanted  to  know  when  they 
weie  going  to  show  some,  and  they  said  right  away;  they  were  just  ready  to 
start  nov.'.  Anyhow,  the  upshot  of  the  thing  was  that  I  told  the  man  if  he 
didn't  show  something  soon  I  was  going  to  can  him.  I  came  back  to  Phila- 
■delplda.  By  that  time  I  had  gotten  to  Wilmington.  That  was  along  in  October. 
Along  about  the  first  of  the  year — I  forget  liow  far  they  had  completed  their 
investigation  of  the  Mason  and  Hanger  vouchers,  and  they  hadn't  sliown 
241]  me  enough  overpayments  to  justify  my  spending  any  more  money  down 
there,  so  I  ordered  Mr.  Shields,  who  was  in  charge,  to  come  here,  and 
I  dischai'ged  the  other  man.  And  Major  O'Shaughnessy  said  to  leave  the 
records  there,  and  he  had  them  piled  up  in  a  room  there  helter-skelter.  Now, 
you  understand  all  these  vouchers  of  the  du  Pont  Company  they  have  in  their 
-possession,  and  they  have  refused  to  turn  them  over  to  us.  They  think  they 
liave  been  badly  treated  and  won't  turn  anything  loose  until  everything  is 
settled.     They  did  have  those  vouchei-s  in  Philadelphia. 

Mr.  Anderson.  You  have  brought  up  a  matter  I  want  to  ask  you  about,  and 
that  is  the  matter  of  the  Mason-Hanger  contracts.  It  has  been  suggested  here 
that  under  the  Mason-Hanger  contracts,  on  one  construction  they  were  to 
receive  some  $205,000 ;  on  another  construction  they  did  get  over  a  million  dol- 
lars with  a  commission  or  profits  on  those  contracts.  Did  you  have  anything  to 
<lo  with  the  Mason-Hanger  contracts  or  the  settlement  of  it? 

Mr.  Farr.  I  construed  the  provisions  of  the  Mason-Hanger  contract  while  I 
was  in  the  Army,  and  also  in  1921.  And  that  rode  there  until  Colonel  Morrow 
took  it  up  before  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War  in  1922,  and  as  a  result  of 
that  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War  took  away  from  the  du  Pont  Engineering 
Company  a  part  of  the  fee  that  had  been  paid  to  Mason  and  Hanger.  In  the 
memorandum  I  wrote  I  criticized  this  contract,  and  said  I  didn't  think  they 
had  made  a  contract  in  the  best  interests  of  the  United  States  Government.  My 
construction  of  the  contract  was  misconstrued. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Did  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War  sustain  your  construction 
of  the  contract? 
247  Mr.  Farr.  No.  sir.     I  think  my  decision  was  given  a  construction  that 

I  did  not  intend,  but  I  sat  tight,  knowing  what  was  coming;  but  I  sup- 
pose you  can  say  that  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War  reversed  me.  Anyway, 
he  took  away  a  part  of  the  fee. 

Mr.  Anderson.  That  you  had  allowed? 

Mr.  Farr.  Well,  I  don't  want  to  admit  that  I  allowed  it. 

Mr.  Andeuson.  Well,  under  your  construction  would  have  allowed  it? 

Mr.  Farr.  No  ;  under  the  construction  given  to  my  decision  it  was  allowed. 

Mr.  Andeirson.  Oh,  under  the  construction  given  to  your  decision  it  was 
allowed? 

Mr.  Farr.  Yes;  according  to  my  decision. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Major,  if  you  are  familiar  with  that  matter,  and  you  are  a 
lawyer,  I  would  like  to  know  if  .you  think  the  allowance  to  Mason  and  Hanger 
under  that  contract  was  a  reasonable  construction  of  the  contract. 

Mr.  Farr.  I  am  perfectly  willing  to  agree  with  the  opinion  of  Mr.  Cassel, 
who  first  brought  it  to  Colonel  Morrow's  attention — of  course,  be  knew  this  was 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3451 

coining  ui3 — and  Colonel  Morrow's  opinion  and  the  disallowance  by  the  Secretary 
of  War  of  a  part  of  that  fee.    Now,  as  I  say,  I  wrote  that  memorandum  before 
1  Iiatl  all  tlie  facts  before  me,  I  frequently  liad  to  do  that;  you  would  get  some- 
thing to  decide  and  you  hadn't  got  all  the  facts  or  all  the  evidence. 
Mr.  Anderson.  How  much  was  the  final  fee  allowed,  do  you  know? 

Colonel  Hull.  No  final  action  has  been  taken  on  it  by  the  Secretary 

248  of  War,  because  an  opinion  and  decision  has  been  asked  of  the  Attorney 
General. 

Mr.  Fare.  It  is  down  now  before  Judge  Bigger  and  Judge  Kerr. 

Mr.  Andeuson.  What  is  the  question  now? 

Mr.  Fakk.  Whether  the  decision  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War  shall  be 
sustained.  My  recollection  is  Mason  and  Hanger  spent  between  $21,000,000  and 
$22,000,000,  and  that  they  were  allowed  a  fee  of  5  percent.  The  objection  to 
that  fee  by  the  men  who  have  taken  exception  to  it  is  that  in  various  other 
construction  contracts  there  was  a  limitation  in  all  the  contracts,  so  that  the 
contractor  could  not  get  over  $250,000,  and  that  these  people  were,  therefore, 
allowed  too  much  money. 

Now,  this  Mason  and  Hanger  contract  was  a  duplicate  of  the  first  contract 
that  was  entered  into  at  Old  Hickory,  and  that  was  O.  K'd.  by  D.  J.  Jackliu, 
I  think. 

Now,  all  that  fee  has  not  been  allowed  yet,  but  Colonel  Wainwright  took  away 
a  certain  part  of  it,  based  on  the  estimated  cost  of  the  plant  at  the  time  they 
entered  into  the  first  contract  and  the  estimated  cost  of  the  plant  at  the  time 
they  entered  into  the  second  contract,  on  March  23,  1918. 

Mr.  ANDE21S0N.  Now,  going  back :  I  think  Mr.  Youmans  testified  that  under 
some  order  issued  by  you  in  September  1921  you  directed  him  to  make  up 
abstract  sheets,  or  something 

Mr.  Fare.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Which  had  the  effect  of  practically  destroying  that  work. 
Mr.  Farr.  Destroying  \^'hat  work? 

249  Mr.  ANDEaisoN.  His  work  up  to  that  date.     He  understood  that  that 
meant  there  would  be  a  lump-sum  settlement.     Would  you  give  us  all 

you  know  about  that? 

Mr.  Farr.  I  got  up  there  and  found  these  men  doing  a  whole  lot  of  what 
appeared  to  me  to  be  useless  work.  When  I  asked  them  what  they  were  doing 
he  said  it  was  being  done  under  the  rules  of  the  W^ar  Department.  I  wanted 
to  know  why  it  was  being  done  iri  that  way.  He  said  so  that  when  the  next 
war  came  on  they  would  have  a  proper  accounting  so  that  they  would  know 
just  how  matters  stood.  They  made  up  a  great  number  of  sheets  of  these 
figures.  They  had  a  white  sheet,  and  then  a  green  sheet,  and  a  red  sheet,  and 
then  two  or  three  other  white  sheets,  and  they  put  those  in  the  typewriter, 
and  you  have  tlie  vouchers  that  referred  to  lumbei",  and  the  vouchers  that 
referred  to  tin,  packed  up  according  to  some  theoretical  observation,  down  here 
at  the  Ordnance  Department.  So  it  was  taking  a  whole  lot  of  time.  We  had 
no  inventory  of  the  stuff  at  the  plant ;  so  far  as  I  could  find,  Ave  were  absoliTtely 
unable  to  set  up  a  property  accountability,  and  after  discussing  it  with  Mr. 
Cassel  and  Colonel  Morrow — I  don't  know  whether  I  said  anything  to  Colonel 
Hull ;  if  he  was  around  I  suppose  I  did — we  decided  we  didn't  care  what  the 
Ordnance  Department  wanted ;  it  was  taking  too  much  time,  and  we  didn't 
believe  the  Ordnance  Department  knew  they  wanted  it  anyhow.  So  we  took 
a  piece  of  paper  and  put  the  number  of  the  voucher  here,  and  the  amount  of 
the  voucher  here,  and  the  amount  allowed  over  here,  and  we  took  the  number 
of  vouchers  together,  and  w^e  had  the  total  amount,  and  when  we  got 

250  through  we  had  practically  the  same  thing  as  they  had  before.     Then  I 
issued  that  order,  and  the  vouchers  went  through.    It  was  about  that  time 

that  Mr.  Youmans  came  to  me  and  told  me  that  he  was  not  in  sympathy  with  the 
present  methods  of  auditing,  and  he  was  going  to  resign,  and  he  did.  Shortly 
after  that  I  appointed  Mr.  W.  E.  Kileen  as  my  chief  accountant.  Now,  if 
that  spoiled  the  audit,  I  don't  know  how  it  did  it,  because  we  didn't  do  a  thing 
except  to  set  these  things  up  in  a  short,  brief,  comprehensive  manner ;  at 
least,  I  was  so  advised  by  various  accountants  I  talked  to,  that  it  was  just  as 
good  a  way,  and  we  got  away  from  all  the  time  it  took  in  setting  up  all  these 
other  things  in  the  other  way. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Major,  I  wanted  to  get  a  little  clearer  in  my  mind — l)ecause 
Mr.  Jones  made  a  good  deal  of  that — ^just  what  was  the  process?    As  I  under- 
stand, these  vouchers  were  first  audited;  is  that  true? 
8387G — 35— PT  14 19 


3452  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Faek.  What  do  you  mean  by  audited,  Colonel? 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  mean  checked ;  audited  and  established ;  verified. 

Mr.  Faeb.  Well,  I  will  tell  it  as  I  saw  it  there. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Yes ;  you  do  that. 

Mr.  Farr.  Mr.  Youmans  only  had  authority  to  set  it  up  in  his  control  sheets : 
they  had  great,  big  books  there,  and  those  were  sunnnaries  on  the  pink  and 
green  sheets,  of  the  vouchers  that  Mr.  Peebles  sent  over  to  him  as  properly 
established. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  see. 

Mr.  Farr.  He  had  no  authority  to  say  that  a  voucher  was  proper;   if  he 

didn't  think  it  was,  he  came  to  me  with  it  and  told  me  he  thought  I  had 

made  a  mistake,  and  it  should  not  be  allowed.    But  Mr.  Peebles,  with  a 

251  bunch  of  men  he  had,  checked  these  vouchers,  for  the  sufficiency  of  the 
vouchers,  and  then  sent  them  to  Mr.  Youmans,  and  if  Mr.  Youmans  didn't 

audit  them,  I  didn't  know  it.  I  thought  they  were  audited.  Peebles  went  over 
them  for  the  sufficiency  of  the  attachments,  and  then  Youmans  audited  them. 

Mr.  Anderson.  In  other  words,  they  were  first  audited  by  Mr.  Peeliles  as 
being  properly  supported? 

Mr.  Farr.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  And  then  checked  and  audited  by  Mr.  Youmans? 

Mr.  Farr.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Andekson.  And  then  were  thej'  listed,  if  they  were  entered  on  this  sheet? 

Mr.  Farr.  Colonel,  they  were  entered  so  many  times  I  don't  know 

Mr.  Andekson  (interposing).  I  mean,  putting  down  an  entry  here  on  this 
form  you  spoke  of  had  nothing  to  do  with  the  summary? 

Mr.  Fahr.  Well,  they  had  great  control  sheets ;  they  had  them  up  there  by 
the  ton,  on  which  every  voucher  was  put  down  and  went  through  the  mill. 

Mr.  Anderson.  And  when  they  got  to  this  point,  it  was  put  on  one  sheet 
instead  of  four  sheets? 

Mr.  Farr.  Oh,  we  had  many  duplicates,  too. 

Mr.  Andekson.  I  mean,  instead  of  the  different  colors?  You  spoke  of  the 
red  and  green  sheets.  When  they  got  to  that  point,  they  had  been  audited  and 
duly  checked,  and  this  was  a  summary  for  the  records  of  the  Department ;  do 
I  understand  that  correctly? 

252  Mr.  Farb.  I  understand  when  they  got  to  Youmans  and  he  put  them 
on  his  books — these  were  great  detail  sheets ;  they  were  in  great  detail, 

these  summaries — that  the  vouchers  had  then  been  checked.  That  was  my 
understanding ;  that  they  had  been  checked  and  audited.  Now,  if  you  will  ask 
Mr.  Youmans  that  question  he  can  tell  you — or  Mr.  Kileen,  or  any  of  them  that 
were  on  the  books.  But  I  am  not  a  bookkeeper,  and  depended  on  them  to  keep 
the  books. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now,  were  there  any  other  irregularities,  other  than  you  have 
mentioned,  in  connection  with  the  operation  and  construction  of  Old  Hickory 
that  you  have  not  mentioned?  You  have  mentioned  some  hospital  and  furniture 
bills.  Can  you  think  of  any  general  class  of  irregularities  that  was  brought  to 
your  attention  that  were  flagrant? 

Mr.  Farr..  Well,  funeral  expenses ;  and  doctors'  bills ;  and  the  Santo  Domingo 
niggers,  and  things  like  that.  And  the  flu  victims,  and  the  excess  price  for 
coffins — boxes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  In  those  cases  did  you  reject  the  vouchers,  or  insist  upon  a 
reduction ;  or  what  did  you  do  with  it? 

Mr.  Farr.  I  was  reversed  in  some  of  those  cases.  I  wrote  a  decision  about 
the  situation  and  the  men  down  there,  and  limited  it  to  the  officers  in  the  Army. 
I  think  I  was  reversed  on  that.  And  the  doctors'  bills,  some  I  allowed ;  I  don't 
know  whether  I  disallowed  any  or  not.  And  the  undertakers'  bills.  I  remem- 
ber one  I  disallowed — two ;  I  disallowed  two  or  thi'ee  undertakers'  bills  that  I 
thought  were  too  high  on  the  same  theory  that  we  were  not  justified  in 
paying  for  a  man  that  was  working  at  a  plant  any  more  than  we  would 

253  pay  for  a  man  in  the  Army     I  based  it  on  the  same  thing ;  but  I  think  I 
was  reversed  on  that. 

Now,  of  course,  there  were  charges  made  that  a  man  would  start  from  San 
Antonio,  Tex.,  for  Old  Hickory  with  a  train  load  of  laborers,  and  when  he  got 
to  Nashville  he  would  check  up  noses  and  find  out  that  he  didn't  have  them ; 
they  had  absconded  along  the  road,  and  he  had  lost  15  or  20  of  them.  Those 
decisions  were  made  on  the  theory  that  a  different  method  should  have  been 
used  to  keep  them  on  the  train,  and  the  Government  should  not  pay  for  a  ticket 
for  a  man  up  to  the  time  that  he  jumped  off  the  train.  The  same  thing  with 
reference  to  meals.     I   investigated   that  and   found   out   that  everybody  was 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3453 

having  a  hard  time  getting  labor,  and  everybody  was  having  trouble — the  Gov- 
ernment and  everybody  else. 

IVIr.  Anderson.  And  you  allowed  them? 

Mr.  Fakk.  I  tliinlj  I  allowed  them,  unless  it  was  out  of  all  proportion,  in 
which  case  I  would  not  have  allowed  it. 

Mr.  ANDE3RSON.  Is  there  anything  else  in  connection  with  this  matter  that 
you  can  tell  the  committee  to  enable  the  committee  to  determine  whether  there 
should  be  a  reaudit,  or  whether  it  should  recommend  that  the  case  be  sent  to  the 
Department  of  Justice,  or  I'ecommend  that  it  should  be  closed?  If  so,  tell  it  now, 
will  you? 

Mr.  Farr.  Well,  Colonel,  I  don't  know  what  you  had  brought  out  here  before ; 
I  don't  know  what  your  charges  are,  and  there  was  so  much  to  remember 
here 

i\Ir.  Anderson.  It  isn't  an  investigation  of  charges ;  it  is  a  survey. 

Mr.  Farr.  This  was  an  expenditure  of  millions  of  dollars,  and  I  think  every 
conceivable  voucher  came  before  me  for  payment,  from  a  woman's  skirt 

254  to  a  pair  of  trousers  for  a  man ;  little  bills,  and  big  bills,  everything  con- 
ceivable came  before  me;  spoiled  meat,  and  rotten  cabbage,  and  every 

conceivable  thing.     That  is  a  right  big  question ;  I  don't  know  how  to  handle  it. 

Mr.  Andekson.  Did  you  find,  in  your  investigations,  that  any  material  was 
received  there  and  paid  for — charged  for,  and  then  shipped  av\'ay ;  was  that 
brought  to  your  attention? 

IMr.  Farb.  No ;  I  found  that  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  had  made  a 
contract  with  the  parent  company  to  handle  the  sales  of  salvage  there. 

Mr.  ANDEaisoN.  Did  it  come  to  your  attention  that  the  du  Pont  Engineering 
Company  had  transferred  material  from  Hopewell  to  that  point  at  Old  Hickory ; 
and  if  so,  under  what  circumstances? 

Mr.  Farb.  From  Hopewell? 

Mr.  Anderson.  Yes ;  for  operating. 

Mr.  Farb.  I  think  perhaps  there  was  some  transfer  of  powder-making  ma- 
chinery, or  something  like  that,  and  some  badly  needed  stuff  at  Old  Hickory 
was  transferred  to  Hopewell,  but  I  have  no  particular  recollection  of  it.  I  know 
we  transferred  some  sruff  to  Penniman ;  we  had  a  lot  of  trouble  getting  that 
straight.  You  see,  at  Penniman  the  du  Punt  people  had  one  contract  of  their 
own,  and  one  of  ours. 

Jlr.  Anderson.  Gentlemen,  can  you  suggest  any  questions  in  particular? 

General  Williams.  Major,  in  an  operation  of  this  magnitude,  would  you  ex- 
pect that  there  would  be  certain  dishonesties  and  irregularities? 

255  Mr.  Farr.  Why,  I  think  certain  small  ones  would  be  bound  to  happen, 
like  somebdy  swiping  pay  checks,  and  matters  of  that  kind. 

General  Williams.  Let  us  take  a  commercial  enterprise,  say,  like  the 
building  of  the  Gary  plant  of  the  steel  corporation.  Do  you  suppose  they  had 
certain  irregularities  in  the  building  of  that  plant? 

Mr.  Farb.  Personally,  of  course,  I  don't  know  anything  about  it.  But  take 
the  J.  G.  White  Construction  Company,  and  those  people,  they  all  suffered  the 
same  kind  of  losses. 

General  Williams.  In  your  investigations  in  this  case,  did  you  find  any  evi- 
dence that  there  was  anything  serious  in  the  way  of  irregularities ;  anything  on 
the 

Mr.  Farb  (interposing.  In  certain  things  I  thought  the  du  Pont  Com- 
pany was  too  liberal  to  its  officers  and  themselves,  and  frankly  said  so  and 
wrote  memoranda  to  that  effect. 

The  Chairman.  Would  it  be  practicable.  Major,  to  separate  and  segregate  the 
items  about  which  there  are  no  disputes  from  those  about  which  there  is  a 
dispute? 

Mr.  Farb.  It  would  be  very  hard,  sir.  You  understand  this  is  a  colossal 
task,  and  many  thousands  of  vouchers.  To  start  with,  you  would  have  to 
separate  your  vouchers,  and  get  them  out  in  two  separate  piles,  like  you  w^ould 
separate  and  sort  a  deck  of  cards;  you  would  have  to  take  the  vouchers  that 
come  under  such  a  ruling  and  such  a  heading,  and  then  the  vouchers  that  were 
classed  as  good,  and  were  paid,  and  that  came  under  another  heading.  It  is  a 
colossal  job. 

The  Chairman.  Were  they  filed  in  that  way;  and  not  filed  together? 

256  Mr.  Farb.  I  can't  tell  you  hdw  they  were  filed,  because  the  du  Pont 
Company  has  retained  those ;  in  consequence  of  which  the  general  comp- 
troller has  disallowed  every  payment,  and  so  instructed  the  disbursing  officer. 


3454  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  tbink  what  the  Seci'etary  has  in  mind  i.s  this :  Suppose,  for 
instance,  on  the  question  of  tlie  bonus;  those  bonus  items  are  all 

Mr.  Farb  (interposing).  I  think  the  bonus  vouchers  were  set  up  on  great 
large  work  sheets,  perhaps  with  the  man's  name,  and  you  could  take  all  the 
evidence  and  handle  that  without  setting  up  those  vouchers  individually.  I 
think  those  are  set  up ;  tlie  going-away  bonus,  and  the  regular  bonus — there 
were  two  bonuses.  And  I  think  the  return  transportation  of  the  men  is  set 
up.  There  are  great  large  sheets.  We  worked  them  up  to  see  how  much  was 
involved.     We  also  worked  up  the  various  vouchers  for  the  amounts. 

The  Chairman.  Isn't  there  also  a  list  of  suspended  items?  Suppose,  in  the 
case  of  any  suspicious  items,  wouldn't  those  items  be  suspended? 

Mr.  Farb.  When  I  made  a  decision  against  the  payment,  it  would  be  sus- 
pended, but  when  it  came  down  here  to  Colonel  Morrow  and  Colonel  Morrow 
reversed  me,  it  would  go  tlirougli,  usually.  If  Colonel  Morrow  sustained  me, 
it  would  be  suspended.  And  then  if  it  went  to  The  Assistant  Secretary  of 
War,  and  he  reversed  us  both,  then  it  went  to  the  disbursing  officer  to  be  paid. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Is  there  anything  else? 

Mr.  Carndufp.  I  desire  to  invite  the  attention  of  the  committee  at  this 

257  time  to  the  testimony  of  the  witness  that  the  bonuses,  to  a  large  extent, 
were  paid ;  and  to  advise  the  committee  that  by  a  recent  decision  of  the 

Court  of  Claims,  unanimously  rendered  in  the  case  of  Preiss  against  the  United 
States,  which  lias  just  been  printed  this  v.eek,  so  recent  is  it,  that  the  Court 
of  Claims  lias  decided  that  all  such  bonuses  are  illegal,  and  an  action  for 
recovery  will  lie.  It  is,  therefore,  our  duty,  I  l)elieve.  as  officers  of  the  United 
States  to  institute  an  action  for  the  recovery  of  them. 

In  addition  to  tliat,  I  am  impressed  by  the  testimony  of  the  witness  that 
approximately  a  million  dollars — I  don't  thing  it  is  quite  that  nuich — is 
retained  by  the  du  Pont  Company,  regardless  of  any  further  claims.  I  believe 
it  is  our  duty  to  recover  sucli  sum  and  pay  it  into  the  Treasury  of  the  United 
States. 

The  Chairman.  That  would  not  affect  our  rights  under  any  further  claims 
against  them,  would  it? 

General  Wiixiams.  No  ;  it  has  no  bearing,  I  think,  on  the  re-audit. 

Mr.  Carndxjf'F.  It  has  a  bearing  on  our  investigation  of  the  case. 

General  Williams.  What  is  there  to  investi.^iate?  It  is  admitted.  What  is 
there  to  investigate?     It  is  admitted  that  is  there. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Has  any  action  been  taken  to  recover  the  money? 

General  Williams.  What  has  been  done  will  be  shown  by  the  records. 

258  Mr.  Farr.  The  du  Pont  people  frankly  admit  they  have  the  money ; 
and  every  time  they  spend  a  little  money  they  charge  it  up  to  us. 

General  Williams.  The  amount  of  money  is  governed  by  the  contract. 

The  Chairman.  Is  there  any  other  question  to  ask  him? 

Mr.  Andebson.  Have  you  got  clear  the  question  of  segregation,  Mr.  Cliairman? 

The  Chairman.  He  said  it  would  be  very  difficult. 

General  Williams.  I  would  like  to  ask  him  if  that  amount  of  money  in  the 
hands  of  the  railroads,  the  $28,000  or  $29,000  is  our  old  friend  that  Mr.  McLane 
has  introduced  here? 

Mr.  Farb.  I  have  not  heard  the  testimony  here. 

General  Williams.  Will  you  make  the  statement  of  it,  Mr.  McLane? 

Mr.  McLane.  The  statement  is  made  that  the  N.  &  C.  Railroad  is  ready  to 
pay  over  to  the  Government  $29,000  that  it  has  in  its  hands. 

]\Ir.  Farr.  Why  don't  they  do  it?     They  wouldn't  give  it  to  me. 

Mr.  McLane.  I  couldn't  state  about  that.  I  am  stating  this  at  the  request 
of  General  Williams,  that  there  is  in  the  hands  of  the  Nashville  &  Chattanooga 
Railroad,  as  I  understand,  about  $29,000  that  it  is  ready  to  pay  over  to  the 
Government. 

Mr.  Fakr.  I  will  state  that  there  was  a  question  with  reference  to  some  money 

to  tlie  N.  Y.  C.  &  St.  L.  for  shipments  to  the  Frankfort  Arsenal;  in  the  files 

there  there  is  a  history  of  that  matter,  and  there  is  some  money  in  their 

259      hands,  I  think.     But  they  refused  to  turn  it  over,  on  some  decision  of 

tlie  Department  here. 

Mr.  McLane.  What  was  that  amount? 

Mr.  Farr.  I  don't  know  the  amount.  Some  of  the  witnesses  could  state  it, 
I  believe. 

Mr.  McLane.  And  was  there  some  amount  from  the  T.  C? 

Mr.  Farr.  The  Tennessee  Central? 

Mr.  McLane.  Yes. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3455 

Mr.  Farr.  Yes;  I  think  so. 

Mr.  McLane.  What  was  there  from  the  N.  &  C? 

Mr.  Fare.  I  don't  know. 

Mr  McL\NE  You  have  testified  about  the  way  the  vouchers  were  audited. 
Was  'there  ever  any  investiijation  made  as  to  the  price  the  du  Fonts  sold  to 
the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  through  their  various  agencies  and  small 
companies,  was  there  any  investigation  made  with  reference  to  purchasing 
from  themselves,  as  to  the  prices,  and  the  quantity  and  quality  delivere<l.' 

Mr  FvER  As  to  the  quantity,  I  presume  there  was.  As  to  the  prices,  I 
had  no  idea  who  tlie  subsidiaries  of  the  du  Fonts  were,  except,  I  believe,  the 
Broadway  Motors,  in  which  it  was  chiimed  they  had  an  interest,  and  it  was 
fl-iiined  that  the  du  Fonts  paid  Broadway  Motors  $50  more  for  Chevrolets 
than  they  were  selling  for  to  other  people.  W^e  investigated  that,  and  it  was 
established  that  the  price  at  which  they  were  sold  was  the  price  they  were  soid 
to  other  people. 

Colonel  Hull.  What  was  that?  .     ^,      i     o     f 

Mr  F^EB  That  the  price  they  sold  Chevrolets— Chevrolet  cars  to  the  du  1  ont 
people  was  the  list  price,  and  was  not  any  more  than  they  were  charging  other 
people.  ,  .„  ,,  ,, 

'>60  Mr    McLanb.  To  refresh  your  memory,  I  will  ask  you  it  there  wasn  t 

a  recovery  from  Broadway  Motors,  and  if  it  isn't  a  fact  that  was  $100 
diffoivrce;  that  "is,  they  sold  for  $600  to  them,  and  on  the  streets  of  Nashville  for 
$.500,  and  that  there  was  a  considerable  recovery? 

Mr  Fare  If  there  was,  I  didn't  know  it.  My  recollection  is— if  you  will  ask 
Mr  i'cebles,  who  is  here,  he  can  tell  you,  because  he  investigated  it  at  my 
request  I  don't  recollect  that  I  ever  recovered  a  penny.  But  we  thought  we 
were  going  to  recover  a  substantial  sum,  but  we  fell  down,  because  we  couldn  t 
esiabli:-<h  that  Broadway  Motors  had  charged  the  du  Fonts  any  more  than  they 
were  charging  other  people. 

Mr  McLvNE.  Now,  there  was  an  item  of  hams  that  came  to  you,  amomitmg 
to  $1  700,  shipped  by  INIorris  &  Company,  which,  on  receipt,  were  not  fit  for  use. 

Mr  Fare  You  are  asking  me  about  one  of  thousands  of  items.  I  don  t 
remember  aibout  that.  I  remember  I  had  a  lot  of  fight  about  rotten  meat.  If 
it  v^-a-:  in  that,  it  came  to  my  attention. 

Mr.  McLane.  Now,  that  voucher  was  paid,  and  no  attempt  was  made  to  collect 
the  $1,700,  and  the  meat  was  shipped  out  again  and  resold. 

Mr.  Fabb.  You  are  making  a  statement  I  know  nothing  about. 

Mr.  McLane.  I  am  asking  you  about  that. 

Mr  Fare  I  am  answering  you  that  if  the  matter  was  brought  to  my  attention 
I  presume  I  investigated  it.     If  the  meat  was  shipped  out  and  sold,  I, 

261  at  this  time,  have  no  recollection  of  it.     And  if  the  records  do  not  disclose 
there  was  a  recovery  made,  there  was  none  made. 

Mr.  McLane.  Understand,  Major,  some  of  the  questions  I  am  going  to  ask 
you,  some  of  it  may  be  true,  and  some  may  be  untrue. 

General  \Villiams.  Are  these  matters  you  have  now  true? 

Mr  McLane.  No,  sir ;  I  have  allegations  that  it  is  true. 

General  Williams.  Why  should  the  committee  take  up  its  time  with  this 

matter?  ,     ,  ^   n        ^^ 

Mr.  Faee.  There  was  some  meat  came  in  there  that  was  undoubtedly  rotten. 

It  caiue  in  on  the  car,  and  there  was  no  ice  on  it  and  it  spoiled. 

Mr.  McLane.  This  is  a  matter  for  you  to  rule  upon,  of  course.     You  are  a 

member  of  the  committee,  and  if  you  think  it  is  improper   I  don't  want  to 

go  into  it.  ,   ,, 

General  Wili.iams.  It  seems  to  me  these  rumors  are  mere  rumors  antl  thej 
should  be  investigated  before  it  came  to  the  attention  of  this  committee. 

Mr.  McLane.  I  have  no  power  to  investigate  it,  you  understand.  I  am 
bringing  it  to  the  attention  of  the  committee  for  you  to  investigate  it. 

Mr.  Fare.  I  will  say  for  Mr.  McLane  that  the  only  way  I  can  establish  it  is 
from  the  voucher  in  the  possession  of  the  du  Pont  people.  And  while  various 
rotten  meat  matters  were  brought  to  my  attention.  I  don't  remember  it. 

Mr.  McLane.  I  will  say  that  Mr.  Towler,  Chief  of  the  Bureau  of  Investigation 
states  that  he  has  that  voucher  of  $1,7W.     Of  course,  if  the  committee 

262  does  not  desire  these  matters  that  I  have  partial  information  upon,  that 
they  are  true,  I  don't  desire  to  bring  them  in.     If  it  is  not  proper  to 

bring  them  in,  I  don't  want  to  burden  the  record,  or  the  time  of  the  committee 
You  are  a  member  of  the  committee,  and  it  is  up  to  you  to  determine  it. 
Mr.  Fabb.  I  will  be  glad  to  answer  anything  you  ask  me,  if  I  can. 


3456  MUNITIONS    INDrSTEY 

Mr.  McLajsb.  I  am  sure  of  that. 

The  Chaibman.  I  think  it  is  all  right,  General. 

General  Williams.  So  far  as  I  am  concerned,  I  think  it  is  a  waste  of  time. 
I  don't  care  anything  about  it. 

The  Chaibman.  You  may  proceed,  Mr.  McLane. 

Mr.  McLane.  Now,  I  will  ask  you  if  the  hospital  bills  first  presented  by  the 
Nashville  Hospital  were  ever  audited? 

Mr.  Fakb.  What  do  you  mean  by  audited? 

Mr.  McLane.  By  any  person  from  the  du  Pouts,  or  your  people,  or  in  any 
other  way? 

Mr.  Faer.  Do  you  mean  whether  my  men  went  down  and  went  over  the 
hospital  bills? 

Mr.  McLane.  Whether  the  amount  presented  by  the  hospital  bill  was  ever 
audited  in  any  way? 

Mr.  Faeb.  I  presume  every  bill  from  that  hospital  was  audited  by  the  auditor 
whose  hands  it  went  through. 

Mr.  McLane.  That  v-;ould  be  mere  presumption,  and  without  any  definite 
knowledge  on  your  parL? 

Mr.  Fabb.  Mr.  McLane,  I  have  heretofore  given  a  statement  as  to  how  those 

very  vouchers  were  audited,  and  you  must  remember  that  I  was  in  charge  of 

the  auditing  of  thousands  of  vouchers,  and  that  I  not  only  don't  remember 

263  or  attempt  to  remember  these  individual  instances,  but  can't.     And  if 
those  vouchers  came  to  my  auditors,  as  they  must  have,  I  presume  there 

must  have  been  some  kind  of  an  audit  made  of  them. 

Mr.  McLane.  Now,  if  almost  daify  during  the  month  of  November  there 
were  duplicate  charges  for  different  men  in  the  hospital  receiving  services  and 
charged  to  you — if  there  were  men  who  paid  their  own  expenses,  and  that 
were,  in  turn,  charged  to  you,  those  facts  didn't  come  to  your  attention ;  you 
would  have  remembered  that  if  that  had  been  a  daily  occurrence? 

Mr.  Farb.  No ;  I  don't  know  as  I  would  have  remembered  that.  If  it  had 
been  a  daily  occurrence,  as  you  say.  I  presume  I  would  have.  But  I  have  no 
recollection  of  any  snieh  thing  at  the  hospital  there.  I  suggest  that  you  ask 
Mr.  Peebles ;  maybe  he  can  tell  you. 

Mr.  McLanb.  Now,  could  you  recall  whether  there  was  an  undertaking  firm. 
Myers — did  you  liave  any  suspended  items  that  came  to  you  from  that  firm? 

Mr.  Faeb.  Was  that  the  undertaking  establishment  that  had  some  bills 
against  the  county,  and  we  had  a  fight  as  to  what  the  charges  should  be? 

Mr.  MgLane.  I  can't  tell  you. 

Mr.  Fare.  If  it  was,  I  think  there  is  a  large  file  on  that.  Because  they  billed 
the  county  and  us,  too,  I  think. 

Mr.  McLanb.  Those  files  were  not  audited,  were  they?  In  other  words,  it 
appeared  from  the  records  that  came  to  you,  and  the  bills  that  were  paid  by 
the  Du  Pont  people,  that  caskets  that  cost  them  $23  were  billed  to  you  at  the 
rate  of  $250;  did  you  have  such  items? 

264  Mr.  Fakb.  I  had  various  items  from  this  undertaking  establishment,  I 
think. 

General  Williams.  Aren't  those  all  matters  of  record? 

Mr.  McLane.  I  couldn't  say,  but  I  don't  think  so. 

Mr.  Faer.  I  don't  want  to  be  put  in  the  position  for  the  record  here  of  answer- 
ing yes  or  no  to  these  things. 

Mr.  IMcLane.  I  don't  want  you  to  be. 

Mr.  Faeb.  But  I  will  say  that  the  records  in  Philadelphia  and  Frankfort 
Arsenal  and  Wilmington  will  show  what  items  I  disallowed  on  those  matters 
individually.  Niiw,  in  these  undertaking  establishments,  we  had  a  lot  of  fuss 
about  that,  and  that  matter  vv-as  under  investigation  for  quite  a  while,  and  there 
were  large  bills,  and  I  think  that  the  bill  that  they  submitted  was,  after  a  good 
deal  of  effort  by  special  representatives  of  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company 
sent  down  therv,  was  afterward  cut  down  very  much  smaller  that  they  pre- 
sented it. 

Mr.  McLane.  Now,  if  those  items  did  conie  to  you,  they  are  matters  of  record ; 
if  tliey  did  not  come  to  you,  then  there  are  reasons  why  they  sliould  now  be 
investigated  and  be  collected  from  the  du  Pont  people,  who  paid  them? 

Colonel  Hull.  Isn't  that  necessarily  a  conclusion? 

Mr.  Fare.  Mr.  McLane,  if  you  ask  me  these  questions,  I  could  answer  them ; 
but  when  you  i)Ut  a  lot  of  conclusion  in  them  I  couldn't  answer  them  without 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3457 

committing  myself,  wliich  I  am  not  going  to  do.     If  I  passed  on  these  things, 

which  I  did  after  the  du  Pont  people  got  hold  of  it,  the  records  are  there  and 

will  speak  for  themselves.     I  am  sure  the  du  Pont  people  will  help  get 

265  hold  of  it.     If  it  has  not  been  investigated  and  is  crooked,  it  should  be 
investigated  ;  I  will  say  that. 

Mr.  McLanb.  As  major  in  charge,  did  it  come  to  your  attention  that  the  du 
Pont  people  used  and  continued  to  use  a  number  of  men  whose  duty  it  was  to 
make  up  receivers'  checkers'  cards,  who  were  not  present  when  the  material 
was  unloaded  from  the  cars  or  trucks,  and  it  was  their  duty  to  make  up  these 
car(;s,  and  that  those  were  the  cards  that  you  passed  upon? 

itir.  Farb.  I  have  heard  it  said  a  good  many  times  that  they  employed  a  large 
force  of  men  to  make  up  the  receipts  you  refer  to.  On  October  7,  1921,  I  was 
advised  by  Mr.  Peebles  that  he  had  verified — to  quote  him,  "  We  have  established 
delivery,  through  the  efforts  of  our  investigators  and  information  which  we  have 
been  able  to  develop,  approximately  as  follows :  Old  Hickory  operation  and  con- 
struction, 90  percent." 

He  had  advised  me  that  he  had,  by  extraneous  examination,  by  various  vouch- 
ers or  papei's  or  investigations  of  his  men  and  efforts  of  the  du  Pont  people — 
had  been  able  to  establish,  regardless  of  what  the  face  of  the  voucher  shows,  90 
l>ercent  of  a  delivery  so  far  as  he  had  gone. 

266  Mr.  McLane.  No  ;  you  didn't  answer  my  question.     Did  you  or  did  you 
not  have  this  definite  information  at  the  time  you  passed  upon  these 

material  vouchers :  That  a  number  of  men  in  the  custody  of  and  in  the  charge 
of  and  under  Mr.  Brown  were  employed  with  the  one  purpose — to  make  up  a 
checker's  card  without  being  present  at  the  receipt  of  the  material,  on  the  receipt 
of  the  material? 

Mr.  Fakb.  Well,  that  question  is  hard  to  answer.  I  told  you  I  had  heard  these 
rumors.  And  that  the  men  working  under  me  had  been  able  to  establish  90 
percent  delivery,  and  that,  regardless  of  the  rumors,  I  had  taken  their  word  for 
what  they  had  been  able  to  establish. 

Mr.  IMoLanb.  Now,  at  the  time  those  rumors  came  to  you  did  you  investigate 
or  undertake  to  find  out  from  the  parties  who  made  the  90  percent  report — 
to  wit,  Mr.  Peebles — whether  or  not  he  was  accepting  the  checker's  cards,  which 
were,  as  it  was  said,  to  use  their  term,  "  fabricated  "  ? 

Mr.  Fahk.  I  don't  think  you  understand  what  these  voucher's  were. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Excuse  me  just  a  minute.  How  much  longer  will  this  take, 
Mr.  McLane?  I  was  wondering  whether  it  would  be  better  to  adjourn  now 
until  after  lunch  and  then  have  Major  Farr  come  back.     It  is  a  quarter  of  2  now. 

Mr.  MoLanb.  I  will  be  through  with  him  in  just  a  moment. 

Mr.  Anderson.  All  right. 

Mr.  Farr.  These  vouchers  had  various  annotations  on  them  by  Government 

checkers,  Government  auditors,  and  representatives  of  the  du  Pont  Engineering 

Company.     That  voucher  never  had  attached  to  it  a  checker's  card.     The 

267  checker's  card  was  supposed  to  be  somewhere ;  where  they  were  I  don't 
know.     But  the  voucher  that  came  to  me  had  no  checker's  card  attached 

to  it.     That  is  my  recollection. 

Mr.  McLane.  But,  Major,  that  is  not  my  question.  Did  you  not  understand 
that  this  90-percent  investigation  was  based  upon  checkers'  cards  fabricated? 

Mr.  Farr.  No;  I  did  not. 

Mr.  McLane.  By  Brown  and  others? 

Mr.  Farr.  No  ;  I  never  heard  of  it.     I  don't  think  I  did  ever  hear  of  it. 

Mr.  McLane.  Did  you  not  understand  that  that  was  based  upon  checkers' 
cards  fabricated  by  men  in  their  employment  to  make  those  checkers'  cards? 

Mr.  Fake.  No,  sir ;  I  will  answer  that  by  saying  that  I  of  course  heard  that 
they  had  these  people  there  to  fabricate  cards.  But  that  if  my  men  could  estab- 
lish, regardless  of  the  checker's  card  that  the  stuff  came  into  the  plant,  I  didn't 
think  that  the  checker's  card  was  material. 

Mr.  McLanb.  Did  you  make  any  investigation  to  see  whether  or  not  Major 
Peebles  and  others  who  made  their  reports  to  you  accepted  those  fabricated 
checker's  cards  without  a  reference  to  you,  or  without  a  suspension? 

Mr.  Fakb.  No,  sir ;  but  I  don't  think  that  I  saw  any  of  the  cards,  and  Mr. 
Peebles  was  working  right  across  from  me,  and  if  he  had  been  using  those 
cards  to  bolster  up  his  statement  to  me  I  think  I  would  know  of  it ;  because 
we  had  fights  enough  there  about  receipt  of  materials  to  impress  it  upon  my 
recollection.  There  was  a  whole  lot  of  trouble  about  it.  And  we  heard  rumors 
a  good  many  times. 


3458  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

268  Mr.  McLane.  That  is  all. 

Mr.  Andebson.  We  will  adjourn  until  3  o'clock  then. 

Mr.  Taer.  Gentlemen,  am  I  to  come  back? 

Mr.  Cabnduff.  No  ;  I  don't  think  that  will  be  necessary. 

Mr.  Fabb.  All  right,  I  will  go  then,  if  you  don't  want  me  to  come  back  this 
afternoon. 

Mr.  Carnduff,  Mr.  Chairman,  we  have  no  further  evidence  to  offer  at  this 
time,  and  perhaps  we  can  adjourn  permanently. 

General  Williams.  There  is  a  whole  room  full  of  people  over  there  who  want 
to  be  heard. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  We  have  no  further  evidence,  Mr.  Chairman,  to  offer  at  this 
time. 

General  Williams.  Don't  you  think  that  the  du  Pont  people  should  be  heard 
in  the  matter? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Not  here ;  no,  sir. 

General  Williams.  Not  here? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Not  in  this  matter. 

General  Williams.  You  don't  think  that  the  du  Pont  people  out  there  should 
be  heard  in  this  matter  now? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  No,  sir. 

Colonel  Hull.  How  about  Kileen? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  If  you  want  to  hear  Mr.  Kileen,  very  well.  I  am  perfectly 
willing. 

Colonel  Hull.  You  are  anxious  to  go  into  the  matter  and  find  out  all  about 

it,  and  you  take  up  a  great  deal  of  time  in  bringing  Major  Guise  in  here  and 

questioning  him  at  great  length.     You  bring  in  Major  Guise,  who  knew  nothing 

about   it,   and   here   is   Kileen,   who   is   a   clean-cut  fellow.     Don't   you 

269  want  his  testimony  as  to  what  happened? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  am  perfectly  willing  that  the  committee  hear  Mr. 
Kileen. 

Colonel  Hull.  Isn't  it  as  important  that  the  committee  hear  Mr.  Kileen  as 
Major  Guise? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  am  perfectly  willing  that  the  committee  hear  Mr.  Kileen,  if 
you  desire  to  introduce  him.  Major  Guise  knew  a  great  deal  about  this.  We 
had  better  adjourn  until  three  o'clock. 

General  Williams.  Don't  you  want  to  hear  what  the  du  Pont  people  have  to 
say? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  No,  sir ;  not  at  this  time. 

Mr.  AndersO'N.  I  think  we  had  lietter  adjourn  until  three  to  hear  Mr.  Kileen, 
and  then  we  can  ask  the  du  Ponts  to  come  back  a  little  later,  I  think,  if  that 
will  suit  you.  I  would  rather  take  them  up  when  I  have  got  a  whole  day.  And 
we  cannot  take  them  up  next  week. 

.  Colonel  Hull.  Have  you  got  any  further  questions,  Mr.  District  Attorney? 
Are  there  any  further  inquiries  that  you  had  in  mind  to  make?  If  you  have, 
I  suggest  that  you  ask  Peebles,  because  you  can  probably  get  a  direct  line  on 
that  as  to  what  has  been  investigated  and  what  has  not.  If  we  recovered 
$250,000,  why  certainly  some  of  the  irregularities  that  we  recovered  upon  you 
might  have  heard  about,  and  if  we  recovered  it  there  is  no  further  use  of  going 
into  it. 

Mr.  McLane.  I  agree  with  you  thoroughly  on  that. 

Colonel  Hull.  I  would  ask  Peebles,  because  he  was  over  it.     And  if  it  is  one 
of  those  various  things  that  you  have  heard,  and  he  has  made  complete 

270  recovery  on  it,  there  is  no  use  of  going  into  it. 

Mr.  McLane,  Yes. 
Mr.  Fark.  I  understand  then  that  I  am  not  to  come  back? 
Mr.  Anderson.  Major,  I  don't  know  of  any  reason  why  you  should  come  back. 
Mr.  Farr.  Well,  I  won't  come  back  then. 
Mr.  Anderson.  We  will  take  a  recess  until  3  o'clock. 

(Thereupon,  at  2:05  p.  m.,  a  recess  was  taken  until  3  o'clock  p.  m.  of  the 
same  day,  Friday,  May  11,  1923.) 

271  AFTER   RECESS 

The  hearing  was  resumed  before  the  Subcommittee  on  Ordnance  Transaction 
of  the  General  War  Transactions  Board,  at  3 :  10  p.  m.,  Friday,  May  11,  1923, 
pursuant  to  recess. 

Mr,  Anderson,  You  may  proceed,  Colonel  Hull. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3459 

STATEMENT    OF    WAIIACE    G.    KILEEN,    DETROIT,    MICH. 

Colonel  Hull.  Mr.  Kileen,  were  you  ever  in  the  Government's  employ? 

Mr.   Kileen.  Yes,  sir. 

Colonel  Hull.  What  years? 

Mr.  Kileen.  From  March  11,  1918,  until  August  17,  1922. 

Colonel  Hull.  In  what  capacity? 

Mr.  Kileen.  As  an  accountant  under  civil  service,  and  the  War  Department. 

Colonel  HxTLL.  As  such  did  you  have  any  dealings  with  the  accounts  of  the 
du  Pont  Engineering  Company? 

:\Ir  Kileen.  Yes,  sir. 

Colonel  Hull.  State  in  your  own  language  what  connection  you  had  with 
those  accounts.     The  dates  and  generalize. 

Mr.  Kileen.  In  October  1921,  I  came  to  Wilmington  at  the  request  of  Major 
Farr,  and  worked  under  Mr.  Youmans  on  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company 
contracts.  At  the  time  that  Mr.  Youmans  left  the  service  Major  Farr  wrote 
a  memorandum  authorizing  myself  as  chief  accountant.  What  had  I  better 
do?     Tell  my  duties  there? 

Colonel  Hull.  Yes;  go  ahead  and  tell  it  in  your  own  language. 

272  Mr.   Kileen.  At   that  time  the   course  or  procedure   was   through   a 
control  record,  which  was  a  columnar  affair  listing  all  the  vouchers  in 

connection  with   the  du   Pout  Engineering  Company   contracts.     This  record 
showed  the  action  taken  on  the  vouchers. 

Mr.  Andekson.  Pardon  me  a  moment.  May  I  ask:  Do  you  know  whether 
Mr.  Gregg  and  his  associates  have  been  told  what  the  committee  is  going  to  do? 

Mr.  Cahnduff.  No,  sir ;  I  have  not 

Mr.  Anderson.  Major  Booton? 

Major  Booton.  No,  sir.  They  are  still  waiting  for  instructions,  and  they 
have  a  number  of  people  from  Detroit  that  they  want  to  hold  here  until  they 
find  out  what  is  to  be  done  with  them. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  don't  think,  General,  if  we  are  going  to  adjourn  after  this 
session — and  I  am  almost  compelled  to  devote  my  time  for  several  days  to 
other  matters — I  don't  think  it  is  hardly  reasonable  to  ask  them  to  continue 
to  stay  here  now.  In  the  first  place,  I  want  to  have  this  written  up  so  I  can 
read  it  over  and  digest  it  before  I  ask  them  any  questions.  And  secondly,  I 
don't  think  I  can  possibly  take  it  up  until  week  after  next.  And  I  think  we 
ought  to  tell  Mr.  Gregg  that  this  thing  is  taking  very  much  longer  than  we 
anticipated  it  would,  and  therefore  we  had  better  notify  them  when  to  take 
it  up  with  them.     Don't  j'ou  think  so,  General? 

General  Williams.  Yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  With  your  permission  I  will  do  so. 
General  Williams.  Yes. 

273  Colonel  Hull.  Proceed. 

Mr.  Kileen.  This  record  showed  the  action  taken  on  the  vouchers ; 
that  is,  eacli  voucher  was  listed  in  number  and  amount,  showing  whether  same 
had  been  approved  and  svimmarized,  or  suspended.  The  vouchers  that  ap- 
peared in  the  suspended  column  were  being  reviewed  at  the  time  that  I  went 
on  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  audit.  And  as  stated  before,  these 
vouchers  stood  out  on  this  record,  showing  that  they  were  suspended  through 
this  suspension  column. 

In  the  meantime  several  decisions  had  been  made  by  various  Government 
representatives,  and  as  the  vouchers  previously  suspended  were  reviewed  they 
were  either  resuspended  or  approved  in  accordance  with  the  decisions.  In  case 
of  approval  it  was  so  shown  by  a  rubber  stamp  placed  on  the  back  of  the 
voucher  by  either  Mr.  Peebles  personally  or  his  assistants.  The  vouchers 
approved  were  collectetl  into  a  schedule,  replacing  the  regular  War  Depart- 
ment summary  form  which  had  been  previously  used  for  recording  approved 
vouchers.  The  vouchers  which  were  not  approved  remained  in  the  suspension 
column  until  the  completion  of  the  work,  and  now  appear  in  a  report,  I  think 
as  of  May  .31,  1922,  listed  as  suspensions. 

Colonel  Hult..  What  was  the  state  of  the  completion  of  the  accounting  and 
stating  of  the  vouchers  when  you  left? 

Mr.  Kileen.  When  I  left  the  du  Pont  I  made  a  report  which  is  a  matter  of 

record  here,  I  think — I  brought  the  copies  all  to  Washington — which  showed 

the  condition  of  the  work  at  that  time.     Now,  of  course,  a  lot  of  that  work 

was  a  patch-work  of  auditors.     A  lot  of  it  was  audited  before  I  came 

274  there,  and  a  lot  of  it  was  in  course  of  work  when  I  came,  but  there  is  a 
break  in  the  summaries  where  they  break  off  from  the  old  summary 


3460  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

form  to  the  new  schedule  form  which  picks  up  all  of  the  vouchers  that  passed 
in  that  time.  Now,  I  can't  say  whether  some  of  those  vouchers  were  hangovers 
or  not,  but  that  is  a  pretty  good  dividing  line  on  that  break  in  that  summary 
form. 

And  right  here  there  is  a  point  that  I  want  to  mention.  When  I  came  to 
Wilmington,  one  one  of  my  early  trips  to  Washington,  it  was  decided  down 
here  that  the  summary  form  would  be  discontinued — or  I  think  that  had 
been  decided  previous  to  that  time,  and  Mr.  Cassel  went  quite  into  detail  with 
me  as  to  how  they  would  be  reported.  The  new  form  of  report  was  merely 
a  schedule  of  voucher  number  and  amount. 

Colonel  Hull.  Did  the  doing  away  with  the  summary  interfere  with  the 
value  of  the  work  in  any  way? 

Mr.  KiLEEN.  Well,  of  course,  it  gave  you  no  classification,  and  previous  to 
that  time  there  had  been  a  classification  of  vouchers.  As  far  as  payment 
is  concerned,  especially  on  construction  work,  I  don't  see  where  that  would 
affect  it  any.  If  the  voucher  was  approved,  why  it  was  approved.  But  when 
you  come  down  to  the  split  between  construction  and  operations  it  would  have 
been  of  value  to  have  been  able  to  pick  that  out.  It  would  help  determine 
cost  quite  a  little.  I  wanted  to  get  at  the  cost  of  operations  a  little  while 
afterwards,  and  that  was  the  difficult  part  of  the  oiJeration. 

Colonel  HuTX.  Did  you  get  the  cost  of  the  operations? 

Mr.  KiLEBN.  I  went  over  the  operations.  Colonel  Hull,  and  I  cannot  say 
that  I  saw  every  transaction  in  connection  with  the  operations.     You 

275  see  the  vouchers  had   all  been  passed,   and  had  this  rubber  stamp  on 
them,  and  previous  to  my  coming  to  Wilmington  the  materials  had  been 

audited,  that  is,  for  prices,  I  believe,  but  I  can't  tell  how  far  that  price  business 
went,  because  when  I  came  that  price  business  was  being  audited,  and  the 
receipt  of  materials  had  been  passed  upon,  or  decided  upon,  so  that  these 
vouchers  had  all  come  through  into  the  approved  column. 

Well,  for  construction  that  went  pretty  well,  but  when  you  come  down  to 
operations  it  took  quite  a  lot  of  digging  in  order  to  make  that  dividing  line, 
because  on  operations  there  was  a  question  of  profit,  and  questions  of  distri- 
bution, distributing  some  of  this  expense  between  operations  and  construction. 

Colonel  Hull.  Well,  how  was  that  done? 

Mr.  KiLEiEN.  A  good  deal  of  it  was  done  on  pay-roll  basis.  And  there  is 
another  thing.  Of  course,  the  pay-roll  work  had  all  been  taken  up  long  before 
I  came  to  Wilmington.    That  had  all  been  passed. 

Now,  I  have  in  mind  one  particular  transaction  :  The  charge  for  passenger- 
train  service,  and  charge  for  operating  a  powder-plant  railroad,  what  they  called 
the  "  powder-plant  railroad."  It  was  pretty  difficult  to  draw  the  line  between 
what  would  be  construction,  what  would  be  operation,  and  what  would  be 
closing  down,  and  that  was  all  quite  important  from  the  profit  standpoint. 
From  the  records  that  I  had  available  there  in  the  office,  without  any  knowledge 
of  the  condition  at  the  plant,  and  from  Mr.  Peebles'  help,  I  did  manage  to 
change  the  distributions  to  our  advantage  to  the  extent  of  reducing  the 

276  profit    $139,000,    for    which    the    contractor    gave   a    cash   voucher    and 
returned  the  money. 

And  there  was  also  another  item  of  $55,000  which  I  never  knew  the  final 
status  of,  but  that  was  a  question  of  contract,  I  guess  ,a  question  of  law  or 
something.     That  f.  o.  b.  point  Nashville. 

Major  BooTON.  That  was  the  question  of  the  freight  differential  between 
Nashville  and  the  plant? 

Mr.  KiLEEN.  Yes. 

Colonel  HuT.L.  Albout  how  much  was  left  uncompleted? 

Mr.  KiLEEN.  Well,  that  would  be  an  awful  hard  thing  to  say. 

Colonel  Hull.  What  do  you  mean? 

Mr.  KiLETEN.  Well,  it  means  what  you  consider  completed.  Now,  for  in- 
stance, tlu>  pay  rolls.  When  I  came  there,  of  course,  from  an  ordinary  auditor's 
standpoint  you  would  naturally  pick  up  the  pay  rolls,  that  being  the  basis 
for  the  distribution,  but  I  was  given  to  understand  that  the  pa.v  rolls  were  all 
settled.  And  I  never  touched  that  part  of  it  at  all.  Now,  if  you  want  to 
consider  that  uncompleted,  that  would  be  quite  a  factor. 

Colonel  Hull.  But  you  understood  it  had  been  done  before  you  came  there? 

Mr.  Klleen.  Surely. 

Colonel  Hull.  Well,  from  the  official  information  that  was  given  to  you  that 
this  was  done  and  that  was  done  and  the  other  was  done,  how  much  remained 
uncompleted? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3461 

Mr.  KiLEEN.  Well,  I  u'ould  say  in  that  case  that  the  only  thing  that  would 
be  of  any  importance  that  would  be  left  uncompleted  was  the  transfers 

277  after  the  actual  vouchers  went  through.    That  is,  journal  entry  transfers. 
That  would  make  a  switch  possibly  from  construction  to  operation  or 

operation  to  closing  down,  or  some  non-profit-bearing  phase  of  the  work. 

Colonel  Hull.  How  long  would  it  take  to  do  that  workV 

Mr.  KiLEEN.  Well,  to  do  the  work  right  and  run  down  the  journal  entries, 
the  basis  for  the  journal  entries,  it  would  take  quite  some  time.  I  could 
make  an  estimate,  but  it  would  only  be  an  estimate. 

Colonel  Hull.  Make  an  estimate,  make  your  best  estimate. 

Mr.  KiLEEN.  I  should  say  it  would  take  about  three  months. 

Colonel  Hull.  How  many  men? 

Mr.  KiLEEN.  Oh,  six  or  seven  good  men. 

Colonel  Hull.  And  of  what  value  would  that  be,  Mr.  Kileen? 

Mr.  Kileen.  It  would  eliminate  any  doubt  as  to  distribution  of  cost  between 
profit  and  nonprofit  bearing  divisions  of  the  contract.  Now,  I  have  iii  mind 
one  item  in  particular — stores.  By  stores  I  mean  the  inventory  at  closing. 
Nashville  I  have  in  mind  in  particular.  There  was  an  audit  made  of  that  store's 
inventory,  and  I  think  it  was  made  by  an  accountant  named  "  Marsh  ",  who 
at  the  time  was  working  with  us  on  the  engineering  contract.  The  question 
came  up  whether  we  would  accept  that  previous  audit,  or  whether  it  would 
be  necessary  to  verify  those  figures,  and  at  one  time  Major  Farr  considered 
possibly  sending  somebody  down  there,  I  think,  to  check  that  inventory  up. 
And  I  even  think  he  went  so  far  as  to  inquire  about  where  the  records  were, 
and  then  the  time  got  so  short  for  us  to  get  in  a  report  that  I  don't  think — 
in  fact,  I  know  no  action  was  taken  on  that  item. 

278  Colonel  Hull.  Do  you  recall  any  other  items? 

Mr.  Kileen.  Well, of  course,  the  conunissary  distribution  would  come 
under  that  journal  entry  feaure  I  mentioned  before.  There  was  a  power  prop- 
osition there,  that  caused  considerable  trouble  on  the  windup  too,  that  required 
almost  knowledge  of  conditions  at  the  plant.  I  went  into  it  with  what  informa- 
tion I  had  on  the  ground,  and  I  think,  if  I  remember  correctly,  we  reduced  the 
power  somewhat  from  that  local  information. 

Colonel  Hull.  What  do  you  mean  by  stores,  Mr.  Kileen?  Do  you  mean  com- 
missary stores  or  supplies? 

Mr.  Kileen.  No  ;  the  stores  I  had  in  mind,  as  I  recall  it,  were  general  stores, 
what  you  call  general  stores  in  the  warehouse. 

Colonel  Hull.  Can  you  be  more  specific? 

Mr.  Kileen.  Hardware  and  things  of  that  sort.  I  have  got  a  mental  picture 
of  tliis  inventory,  but  I  don't  just  remember  what  is  on  it.  I  think  there  is 
a  copy  of  it  here  in  Washington,  though. 

Colonel  Hull.  You  were  connected  with  the  Philadelphia  board  for  some 
time,  were  you  not,  before  you  went  on  this  work? 

Mr.  Kileen.  I  was  connected  with  the  accounting  branch  of  the  PhUadelphia 
district  office. 

Colonel  Hull.  And  is  there  any  real  difference  between  the  accounting  work 
that  you  saw  at  the  winding  up  and  the  other  accounting  work  in  the  Phila- 
delphia branch? 

Mr.  Kileen.  Yes  ;  this  work  here,  of  course,  was  different  from  the  work 

279  I  had  been  on.     The  work  I  had  been  on  had  been  cost-plus  contract s, 
where  we  started  in  with  a  purchase  order  approved  by  the  contracting 

officer,  the  local  contracting  officer,  and  carried  it  through  to  completion.  But 
this  was  a  little  different  end  of  it.  And  we  also  summarized  on  the  cost-plus 
work. 

Colonel  Hull.  Have  you  any  questions? 

Mr.  Anderson.  How  much  was  in  suspense  when  you  took  over  these  accounts, 
Mr.  Kileen? 

Mr.  Kileen.  It  is  very  unfortunate  that  I  have  no  way  of  answering  that 
question.  These  forms  that  I  mentioned  during  the  early  part  of  my  state- 
ment, known  as  the  control  records,  did  not  provide  for  recording  the  transfers 
between  apiiroved  and  suspended  vouchers.  And  in  numerous  cases  the  space 
provided  for  approval  or  suspension  of  a  voucher  would  shOAV  that  it  had 
been  changed  back  and  forth  from  one  column  to  another  so  many  times  that 
there  was  hardly  any  paper  left.  It  would  be  erased  so  many  times,  don't 
you  know. 


3462  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Andebson.  Did  you  know  anything  about  two  items  of  freiglit  charges 
amounting  to  about  $29,000  claimed  to  have  been  due  by  the  railroads,  as 

overcharges  V 

Mr.  KiLEEiN.  No ;  I  don't  recall  any  such  items. 

Mr.  Anueeson.  Did  you  know  of  any  duplicate  payments  to  the  Cambria 
Iron  Company? 

Mr.  KiLEEN.  No,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  As  an  accountant  did  you  see  any  substantial  difference  be- 
tween the  method  of  making  up  those  summary  sheets,  as  made  up  under 
Major  Farr's  order  after  December  1921,  and  the  various  summary  slieets  that 
were  made  prior  to  that  time? 

280  Mr.  KiLEEN.  No  ;  I  do  not.     But  I  would  like  to  qualify  that  statement, 
because  the  previous  summaries,   that  is   the  form  intended,  provided 

for  classification  of  the  nature  of  the  expense.  And  when  an  item  is  properly 
classified  it  places,  it  in  a  profit-  or  nonprofit-bearing  group,  which  would  elimi- 
nate any  possible  doubt  as  to  the  figuring  of  profit  in  the  closing.  But  there 
is  a  question  in  my  mind  whether  the  summaries  previously  passed  were  made 
on  that  basis,  with  that  intention. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Well  now,  did  yon  in  your  checking  and  auditing  of  these 
accounts  observe  any  irregularities  which  were  not  cleared  up? 

Mr.  KiLEEN.  "Well,  the  only  oi^en  items  that  I  know  of  are  the  items  that 
appear  as  suspense.  That  is,  the  only  items  that  came  under  my  observation 
that  had  not  been  approved  now  appear  as  suspense  in  this  report  previously 
mentioned. 

Mr.  Anderson.  When  did  you  discontinue  your  work  on  these  accounts? 

Mr.  KiLEEN.  Well,  active  work  was  discontinued,  I  believe,  on  June  tlie 
30th.  I  was  separated  from  the  service  on  that  date.  And  then  I  was  later 
taken  back  on  a  temporary  basis. 

Mr.  Andekson.  Do  you  know  how  much  balance  was  claimed  to  be  luiad- 
justed  at  that  time? 

Mr.  KiLEEN.  No ;  but  that  shows  in  the  reports. 

Mr.  Anderson.  There  was  a  report  made  at  that  time? 

Mr.  KiLEEN.  Yes,  sir.  That  report  ties  up  with  the  advances  as  shown  in 
a  special  report  made  by  a  Mr.  Keifhofer,  I  believe. 

281  Mr.  Anderson.  That  is  all  I  want  to  ask. 

Colonel  Hull.  That  work  that  you  spoke  about  doing  and  continuing 
six  or  seven  men  for  about  three  months ;  would  that  work  have  to  go  clear 
back  to  its  inception,  or  could  it  be  tied  on  to  where  you  stopped? 

Mr.  Kileen.  No ;  each  one  of  those  journal  entries  would  have  to  be  run 
down,  absolutely  run  down,  to  know  the  facts. 

Colonel  Hull.  But  I  mean,  when  that  is  done  could  the  result  of  that  be 
tied  down  to  the  work  as  you  completed  it,  or  would  you  have  to  go  back? 

Mr.  Kileen.  Oh ;  you  would  not  have  any  trouble  tying  that  in  with  this 
report. 

Colonel  Huix.  That  is  what  I  mean. 

Mr.  Kileen.  There  wouldn't  be  any  trouble  with  that. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Well,  that  raises  a  question  that  I  wanted  to  ask.  It  has 
been  suggested  here  that  the  freight  accounts  or  charges  by  the  railroads  had 
not  been  audited,  or  verified  by  auditing  with  the  accounts  of  the  Railroad 
Administration.  Nov,-,  could  that  be  done  now,  in  your  opinion,  from  the 
records  available? 

Mr.  Kileen.  I  believe  it  could. 

Mr.  Anderson.  It  has  also  been  stated  here  that  the  audit  was  90  percent 
complete  as  to  tlie  more  important  elements  entering  into  operation  and  con- 
struction. Would  it  be  possible,  in  your  opinion,  to  segregate  that  portion 
wliich  had  not  been  audited  and  audit  it  at  the  present  time? 

Mr.  Kileen.  That  control  record — the  erasure,  the  transfer  from  suspended 
to  approved,  makes  it  almost  impossible  to  say  what  percent  was  fully 
covered. 

282  Mr.    Andekson.  Well,    suppose    there    were    certain    elements    of    the 
accounliiij^   which    had   not   been   completely   carried   out;    would   it   be 

possible  for  you  to  take  up  the  record  as  it  was  and  carry  those  to  a  conclu- 
sion, without  having  to  go  back  over  the  whole  thing? 

Mr.  Kileen.  Do  you  mean  along  the  same  lines  that  we  were  working  when 
we  stopped? 

Ml'.  Anderson.  Along  the  same  lines  that  you  were  working  when  you 
stopped  the  audit;  yes? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3463 

Mr.  KiLEEN.  Yes,  sir.  The  reason  why  I  asked  that  was  because,  of  course, 
wheu  I  took  it  up  we  were  working  under  certain  decisions,  and  that  made 
quite  a  difference. 

Mr.  Anderson.  In  your  audit? 

Mr.  KiLEEN.  Yes. 

Mr.  Andersox.  You  don't  know  how  far  the  vouchers  were  checked  back  to 
ascertain  actual  delivery,  the  prices  of  material,  because  that  was  done  under 
the  closing  officer,  wasn't  it? 

Mr.  KiLEEN.  Yes ;  that  was  all  done  on  the  other  side. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Are  there  any  aspects  of  this  matter  that  you  would  suggest 
should  be  further  audited  in  order  to  arrive  at  a  final  settlement  as  it  was 
when  you  made  your  final  report? 

Mr.  Ktleen.  AVith  the  decisions  standings,  the  only  thing  that  I  could  think 
of  as  an  absolute  100-percent  check-up  that  would  bring  in  results  would  be 
in  the  operation  end.  As  I  stated  before,  the  transfers  from  profit-bearing  to 
nonprofit-bearing  items,  which  would  affect  the  profit  allowed. 

283  Mr.   Anderson.  What   do   you    mean   by    the  decisions   standing?     Do 
you  mean  the  various  decisions  and  rulings  under  which  the  audit  was 

made? 

Mr.  KiLEEN.  Yes.  For  instance,  when  I  came  there  we  were  making  no  de- 
ductions, of  course,  for  material  shortages.  That  was  one  thing.  Those 
vouchers  all  came  to  me  approved.  In  fact,  my  work  was  all  passied  on  these 
previous  approvals.  They  came  to  me,  and  I  merely  recorded  the  transactions 
in  accordance  with  these  approvals — this  rubber-stamp  approval  that  came 
from  Mr.  Peebles'  department. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Well,  how  do  you  know  that  there  were  no  deductions  being 
made  for  materials  short? 

Mr.  Kileen.  Well,  because  that  question  came  up,  and  we  had  out  all  of  the 
vouchers  at  one  time  showing  material  deductions. 

Mr.  Anderson.  What  was  done  with  those  items  of  material  deductions? 

Mr.  Kileen.  I  think  in  a  few  cases  credits  were  located  to  cover  them. 

Mr.  Anderson.  The  others  were  passed? 

Mr.  Kileen.  The  other  ones  were  referred  to  Mr.  Peebles,  and  as  I  recall 
it,  passed  under  some  decision  which  he  had. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now  you  don't  know  what  that  decision  was,  or  who  rendered 
it? 

Mr.  Kileen.  No  ;  I  really  couldn't  say  which  one  it  was.  There  were  so 
many  of  them.  And  I  don't  know  whether  it  was  a  written  decision  or  not. 
The  stamp  on  the  voucher  was  the  guide.  I  knew  at  the  time,  but  I  just 
cannot  remember  it. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  cannot  think  of  anything  else.  Colonel,  that  I  wish  to 
ask. 

284  ]\Ir.  Carnduff.  Just  one  question.     Mr.  Kileen,  we  have  asked  eacli  of 
the  accountants  giving  opinions   here   to  give  a  brief  resume  of  their 

experience  as  accountants,  and  I  would  like  to  ask  you  the  same  question, 
namely.  Are  you  a  certified  public  accountant? 

Mr.  Kileen.  No,  sir. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Have  you  been  a  senior  accountant? 

Mr.  Kileen.  I  was  given  that  grade  by  civil  service,  that  is  all.  Never 
served  in  public  accounting. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Oh,  you  never  served  in  public  accounting? 

Mr.  Kileen.  No,  sir. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Would  you  give  us  very  briefly  your  experience  in  accounting 
before  entering  the  Government  service? 

Mr.  Kileen.  I  attended  the  Utica  Business  College,  and  left  there  to  accept 
a  position  in  a  wholesale  jobbing  and  hardware  concern,  a  clerical  position.  I 
was  there  about  two  years  and  a  half.  My  next  position  was  with  the  Gen- 
eral Electric  Company.  And  I  held  the  positions  of  claim  chaser,  claim  clerk, 
assistant  to  the  head  of  the  distribution  department,  and  was  later  given 
charge  of  the  distribution  department,  making  a  service  of  seven  or  eight  years 
with  the  General  Electric  Company.  I  then  made  application  to  the  Civil 
Service,  and  was  assigned  to  the  Ordnance  Department  in  March  1918. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  What  was  your  rating,  Mr.  Kileen?     What  capacity,  I  mean? 

Mr.  Kileen.  Senior  accountant. 

IVIr.  Carnduff.  In  the  civil  service? 

Mr.  Kileen.  In  the  civil  service. 


3464  MUXITIONS    INDUSTRY 

285  Mr.  Carnduff.  Did  you  ever  exaniine  the  books  of  the  du  Pont  En- 
gineering Company? 

Mr.  KiLEEN.  The  general  hool^s? 

Mr.  (Jabndufi<\  Yes. 

Mr.  KiLEEN.  I  have  worked  on  the  cash  boolvs  to  determine  the  casli  trans- 
actions, the  accounts-payable  registers,  and  the  cost  records  and  journal 
entries. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  In  whose  employ  were  you  then? 

Mr.  KiLEEN.  In  the  United  States  Government. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  For  what  purpose  did  you  work  on  these  books,  Mr.  Kileen? 

Mr.  KiLEEN.  The  purpose  of  this  audit,  under  Major  Farr. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  But  you  never  made  any  general  examination  of  the  operating 
books  of  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company? 

I\lr.  KiLEEN.  No,  sir ;  only  for  the  purpose  of  this  audit,  under  Major  Farr. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Thank  you  very  much. 

Mr.  Kileen.  Y'es,  sir.     Now,  gentlemen,  may  I  return  to  Detroit? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  think  that  is  all. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Yes. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  And  we  are  very  much  obliged  to  you. 

(Witness  excused.) 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  might  say.  Colonel,  that  I  have  not  sent  for  Mr.  Kileen,  as 

I  did  not  consider  his  evidence  would  much  more  than  corroborate  all  of  what 

Major  Farr  would  tell  us,   and  of  course  I  didn't  even  know  how  he 

286  got  nere. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Well,  I  wish  to  state  on  the  record,  General,  that  we 
had  prepared  for  and  requested  the  attendance  of  some  half-dozen  persons  as 
witnesses  from  Nashville  to  testify  at  this  hearing,  who  knew  of  the  conditions 
and  operations  of  the  plant.    Some  of  them,  I  think,  came  up. 

Mr.  Carndltff.  They  all  came. 

Mr.  Anderson.  They  all  came.  And  after  talking  with  the  head  of  the 
criminal  department  of  the  Department  of  Justice  he  advised  me  that  he  Avould 
prefer  at  the  present  stage  of  the  investigation  that  this  evidence  be  not  taken 
on  account  of  certain  matters  in  connection  with  the  Department  investigations, 
and  at  his  request  the  witnesses  returned  to  Nashville.  I  think  it  is  due  the 
committee  that  that  statement  sliould  be  made,  because  their  evidence  was 
regarded  as  important  for  our  information  and  also  to  the  Department.  Other- 
wise their  coming  here  and  going  back  would  be  unexplained.  But  he  felt  that 
at  the  present  time  the  interests  of  the  Government  required  that  they  should 
not  testify  until  they  had  further  carried  their  investigations  on. 

So,  as  i  understand  it,  Major  Carnduff  and  Mr.  McLane,  there  is  no  one  else 
you  wish  to  have  here  at  the  present  time? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  The  witnesses  who  have  already  testified,  together  with  the 
witnesses  who  were  brought  from  Nashville  and  returned  at  the  suggestion  of 
the  Assistant  Attorney  General,  constituted  the  evidence  we  desired  to  present 
to  this  committee.    We  have  no  other  witnesses  now. 

287  Mr.  Anderson.  I  would  like  to  state  on  the  record  also  that  representa- 
tives of  the  du  Pont  Company  have  been  in  here  ready  to  be  called,  if 

desired,  and  that  at  my  suggestion,  with  the  approval  of  the  members  of  the 
committee,  they  were  told  that  the  matter  would  be  adjourned  over  until  we 
got  this  evidence,  and  that  then  we  would  invite  them  when  we  wished  to  call 
them. 

It  may  be  in  connection  with  the  matters  luider  local  investigation  at  Nash- 
ville, which  do  not  involve  the  subjects  of  our  general  inquiry  here,  except  in 
certain  details,  that  the  Government  would  want  to  see  certain  of  these  records 
and  exhibits  which  are  in  the  Frankfort  Arsenal,  I  presume,  or  some  of  them 
may  be  here.  In  that  event  I  suppose  on  application  to  you  they  could  get  the 
necessary  orders? 

General  Williams.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Or  to  Colonel  Hull? 

General  Williams.  Either  one. 

Mr.  Anderson.  So,  Mr.  McLane,  if  there  are  any  of  those  records  that  you 
wish  to  see,  if  you  wish  to  advise  us,  or  have  the  Department  of  Justice  apply 
to  either  General  Williams  or  Colonel  Hull,  why  those  records  will  l)e  made 
immediately  available. 

Mr.  McLane.  Tliat  will  be  very  kind. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3465 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now,  with  that,  unless  there  is  something  else  that  you  gentle- 
men desire  to  suggest,  I  would  suggest  an  adjournment  of  the  committee  without 
da.v,  and  we  will  take  it  up  again  on  proper  notice. 

General  Williams.  I  second  it. 

Mr.  Andekson.  The  committee  tlion  stands  adjourned  without  day,  and 
288       on  a  further  hearing  you  gentlemen  will  be  notified  in  advance,  if  you 
wish  to  be  heard,  in  order  that  we  may  complete  our  investigation. 

(Thereupon,  at  3:45  p.  m..  Friday,  May  11,  1923,  the  hearing  before  the 
Su1)Committee  on  Ordnance  Transactions  of  the  General  War  Transactions 
I'.oard  was  adjourned  without  day.) 


289  OLD   HICKORY   INVESTIGATION 

Wednesday,  December  5,  1923.     11 :  30  O'clock  a.  m. 

Room  3538  Muniiions  Building, 

Washington,  D.  C. 

Proceedings  had  and  testimony  taken  before  Subcommittee  on  Ordnance  of 
the  General  War  Transactions  Board,  composed  of  the  following  members : 

Hon.  Dwight  F.  Davis,  Assistant  Secretary  of  War,  chairman ;  Maj.  Gen.  C.  C. 
Williams,  Chief  of  Ordnance ;  Henry  W.  Anderson,  Esq.,  representing  the  De- 
partment of  Justice. 

Present :  Col.  J.  A.  Hull,  executive  officer  of  the  War  Transactions  Board ; 
Col.  F.  W.  Coleman,  of  the  Finance  Department ;  Arthur  Carndulf,  Esq.,  special 
assistant  to  the  Attorney  General ;  James  Cameron,  Esq.,  Director  of  Audit  of 
the  Department  of  Justice ;  A.  V.  McLane,  Esq.,  United  States  district  attorney, 
Nashville,  Tenn. ;  Maj.  J.  G.  Booton,  Ordnance  Department,  United  States 
Army ;  H.  G.  Haskell,  Esq.,  vice  president  and  director  of  the  du  Pont  Engi- 
neering Company  and  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company ;  W.  S.  Gregg,  Esq., 
counsel  for  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  and  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours 
&  Company ;  W.  A.  Shaier,  Esq.,  comptroller  of  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Com- 
pany ;  H.  H.  Cochran,  Esq.,  cost  accountant  du  Pont  Engineering  Com- 

290  pany ;    Olin    Haubert,    Esq.,    chief    clerk.    Government    claims    division, 
E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  «&  Company ;  Maj.  Richard  Sylvester,  assistant 

to  vice  president  and  manager  of  protection,  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  & 
Company. 

Mr.  Andeeson.  This  is  a  hearing  in  the  matter  of  the  United  States  against 
the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  involving  the  construction  of  the  Old 
Hickory  plant  at  Nashville,  Tennessee.  Gentlemen,  in  order  to  connect  up  the 
record,  you  will  recall  that  on  May  the  10th,  1923,  there  was  a  hearing  here 
before  the  Secretai^y  of  War,  the  Chief  of  Ordnance  and  myself  in  connection 
with  certain  matters  growing  out  of  this  construction  contract.  The  idea,  as 
then  expressed,  was  that  the  contract  had  never  been  settled  between  the  Gov- 
ernment and  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  and  a  good  many  questions 
had  been  raised.  There  had  been  at  least  one  or  two  partial  or  incomplete 
audits,  and  it  was  thought  that  we  could  probably  greatly  shorten  the  labor  by 
having  a  hearing  of  the  various  persons  who  had  participated  in  these  audits 
and  investigations,  and  see  how  far  it  was  necessary,  if  at  all,  to  make  addi- 
tional investigations  or  audits,  and  what  facts  could  be  developed. 

At  that  time,  under  instructions  of  the  Department  of  Justice,  we  heard 

the  various  representatives  of  the  Government  who  had  previously  taken  part 

in  these  investigations  or  audits,  and  assured  the  representatives  of  the  du 

Pont  Company  that  at  a  future  time  they  would  be  given  an  opportunity  to  be 

heard  thereon.    The  matter  has  been  delayed  by  the  unavoidable  engage- 

291  ments  of  parties  concerned,  and  in  the  meantime  I  understand  the  offi- 
cers of  the  Government  handling  this  matter  have  furnished  the  du  Pont 

Company  with  a  memorandum  of  the  principal  points  on  which  information 
was  desired.  And  the  representatives  of  the  du  Pont  Company  are  here  this 
morning  to  state  any  facts,  as  I  understand  it,  bearing  upon  those  points,  it 
being,  of  course,  without  prejudice  to  any  future  position  that  the  Govern- 
ment may  take  or  they  may  take,  this  being  merely  a  preliminary  investigation 
with  a  view  to  saving  time  and  shortening  the  work  and  decreasing  the  ex- 
pense if  possible. 


3466  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

That  is  my  understanding  of  the  situation.  Am  I  correct,  Mr.  Gregg?  Is 
that  your  view  of  it? 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  think  so,  Colonel ;  yes. 

Mr.  Andekson.  Yes.  Then,  General,  if  you  are  ready  I  think  we  might  hear 
the  representatives  of  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  in  any  order  that  they 
desire  to  present  the  facts. 

Mr.  Carndi-ff.  Mr.  Chairman,  if  there  be  no  objections  on  the  part  of  the 
Board,  I  would  like  to  instruct  the  reporter  to  furnish  the  du  Pont  counsel  a 
copy  of  these  hearings. 

Mr.  Andekson.  I  should  think  that  would  be  most  proper,  if  agreeable  to 
General  Williams. 

General  Williams.  That  means  the  hearings  of  the  last  meeting? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  No,  General ;  the  hearings  today  at  which  they  participate. 

General  Williams.  I  move,  Mr.  President,  that  we  furnish  them  a  copy  of 
the  hearings  of  the  last  meeting,  also,  in  addition  to  what  is  heard  today. 

292  Mr.  Anderson.  There  is  a  question.  General.     I  received  instructions 
from  the  Department  of  Justice  at  the  former  hearing,  if  you  will  recall, 

which  put  me  in  a  rather  embarrassing  position.  At  the  last  minute  I  received 
instructions  that  the  hearing  should  be  private.  And  therefore,  while  person- 
ally I  would  have  no  objection  whatever,  I  would  like  to  consult  with  my 
superior  officers  on  that  question,  because  it  was  at  their  direction  that  it  was 
to  be  private,  and  coming  up  as  it  did  at  the  last  minute,  it  put  me  in  a  some- 
what awkward  position  with  the  du  Pont  interests.  As  I  said,  personally  I 
have  no  objection,  and  I  would  be  very  glad  to  do  so,  but  if  it  is  perfectly 
agreeable  I  would  rather  consult  with  my  superior  officers,  from  whom  I 
receive  my  instructions,  with  your  permission. 

General  Williams.  The  reason  I  made  the  motion  is  because  in  the  last 
hearings  such  serious  charges  were  made  about  the  du  Pont  Company,  and  I 
do  not  see  how  the  du  Pont  Company  can  answer  those  charges  unless  they 
know  what  they  are,  and  therefore  it  seems  to  me  in  fairness  to  all  concerned, 
that  the  du  Pont  Company  should  have  a  copy  of  tlite  hearings  at  the  last 
meeting. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Will  you  defer  action  on  that  until  I  can  confer  with  the 
Department  of  Justice? 

General  Williams.  Yes. 

Mr.   Anderson.  I   absolutely   have   no  personal   objection,    and   it   was   my 

intention,  originally,  that  these  hearings  should  be  open,  and  that  the  du  Pont 

Company  should  be  present  during  all   the  hearings  by  its   representatives. 

It  was  my  intention  that  that  should  be  so,  and  until  the  last  minute, 

293  until  I  received  instruction  from  my  superior  officers  in  the  Department 
of  Justice,   that  was  my  intentinn.     I  am,  of  course,   subject  to  those 

instructions,  and  I  would  rather  i-<insult  them,  although  I  agree  with  you  per- 
-^onally  that  there  is  no  reason,  as  far  as  I  am  concerned,  why  they  should 
not  have  it. 

Mr.  CAitNDUFF.  We  may  then  furnish  a  copy  of  the  hearings  today  to  the 
du  Pont  representatives? 

Mr.  Andkrson.  Undoubtod'y.  that  is  understood;  that  they  will  be  supplied 
a  copy  of  tlie  hearings  today,  and  I  will  take  up  the  question  as  to  whether  or 
not  there  will  be  any  question  of  their  being  supplied  with  a  copy  of  the  pre- 
vious hearin.^s. 

All  right,  Mr.  Gregg. 

Mr.  Gregg.  If  the  Board  please,  I  was  furnished  a  couple  of  weeks  ago  by 
Mr.  Camdulf  with  a  list  of  items  or  questions  concerning  which  they  desired 
information.  We  have  spent  considerable  time  in  getting  up  replies  to  these 
items  of  inquiry,  and  we  have  endeavored  to  make  them  as  full  and  complete 
as  we  possibly  could  in  the  comparatively  short  time  that  we  had  to  do  it.  I 
shall  not  take  the  time,  unless  the  Board  so  desires,  to  read  all  of  these  items 
that  are  contained  on  the  list,  but  will  take  them  up  in  the  order  in  which  they 
appear  on  the  list  as  submitted  to  me  by  Mr.  Carnduff. 

I  have  three  copies  of  our  reply,  one  for  each  member  of  the  Board,  and  I 

have  also  given  a  copy  to  Mr.  Carnduff,  with  the  exception  that  Mr.  Camduff's 

copy  is  not  complete  insofar  as  it  does  not  contain  a  copy  of  the  brief 

294  with  respect  to  the  Mason  &  Hanger  fee,  which  brief  I  filed  with  the 
Secretary  of  War  last  November — November  1922.     Mr.  Carnduff,  how- 
ever, has  a  copy  of  that  brief,  alnd  it  is  perfectly  agreeable  to  him,  as  I  under- 
stand it,  to  leave  out  that  copy. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3467 

These  inquiries  coiitaiuetl  on  this  list,  witli  the  exception  of  one  or  two 
points,  have  all  been  fully  gone  over  heretofore  with  tiie  auditors  for  the  War 
Department.  Not  only  gone  over  but  gone  over  repeatedly.  And  as  I  go  along 
I  will  point  out  the  two  or  three  items  that  have  not  been  specifically  brought 
up  heretofore. 

Now  these  inquiries  are  directed  more  particularly  to  the  Old  Hickory  con- 
tract. However,  some  of  the  inquiries  are  rather  broad,  and  in  replying  to 
some  of  the  queries  propounded  it  has  been  necessary  to  refer  to  all  of  the 
contracts  that  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  had  with  the  United  States 
during  the  war. 

As  a  preliminary  I  might  here  state  that  during  the  war  the  du  Pont  Engi- 
neering Company  did  no  work  whatever  except  in  connection  with  the  con- 
struction and  operation  of  Government-owned  plants,  as  that  company  was 
organized  in  the  fall  of  1917,  by  arrangement  with  the  Ordnance  Department, 
so  that  in  the  construction  and  operation  of  Government-owned  plants  all  the 
transactions  in  connection  with  that  work  might  be  kept  separate  and  apart 
from  the  records  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company. 

The  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  dui'ing  the  war  had  five  contracts  with 
the  United  States. 

295  The  first  contract  entered  into  between  the  company  and  the  United 
States  was  the  contract  for  the  construction  and  operation  of  a  shell- 
loading  plant  at  Penniman,  Virginia. 

The  second  contract  was  the  one  for  the  construction  and  operation  of  the 
Old  Hickory  powder  plant. 

The  next  two  contracts  were  for  the  operation — not  the  construction,  but  for 
the  operation  of  two  bag  loading  plants  for  the  Government,  one  being  located  at 
Seven  Pines,  Virginia,  and  the  other  at  TuUytown,  Pennsylvania. 

In  the  fall  of  1918,  as  I  recall  it  was  in  September,  a  fifth  contract  was  entered 
into  between  the  du  Point  Engineering  Company  and  the  United  States  for  the 
construction  and  operation  of  a  TNT  plant  at  Ives,  Wisconsin. 

Taking  up  the  items  of  inquiry,  the  first  one  is  this,  under  the  heading : 

"  IN   THE   MATTER  OF  GENERAL  INQUIRY 

"  Question  1.  Has  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  a  complete  and  accurate 
system  of  accounting  of  (a)  construction  project ;  (6)  operation.  Is  such  now 
available  for  examination  by  the  United  States? 

"Answer,  (a)  Constructimi  project. — The  du  Pont  Engineering  Company 
has  a  complete  and  accurate  record  of  its  expenditures  in  connection  with  all 
construction  projects.  The  system  for  accumulated  expenditures  on  the  general 
ledger  relating  to  construction  was  in  accordance  with  plans  mutually  discussed 
between  representatives  of  the  contractor  and  the  contracting  officer,  and  was 
adopted  with  the  approval  of  the  contracting  officer.  The  card  of  accounts  at- 
tached hereto,  exhibit  2,  adopted  in  connection  with  the  Old  Hickory  con- 

296  struction  accounting,  will  illustrate  the  subdivision  of  construction  cost 
used  in  the  contractor's  ledgers.  An  intricate  system  for  keeping  sepa- 
rately the  cost  of  units  was  not  adopted,  inasmuch  as  the  Government  did  not 
consider  such  record  necessary,  and  desired  to  save  the  expense  of  the  additional 
accountants  which  would  have  been  requiretl  to  keep  such  records.  The  post- 
ings on  the  general  ledgers  are  supported  by  properly  approved  vouchers." 

Now,  if  you  will  turn  to  exhibit  2  you  will  find  there  the  so-called  "  card  of 
accounts  "  which  shows  how  the  varnous  items  of  expense  were  carried  on  our 
books. 

Mr.  Andeeson.  Mr.  Gregg,  when  you  spoke  of  not  keeping  separate  accounts 
for  the  different  imits,  you  meant  the  different  units  in  any  particular  plant. 
The  accounts  show  the  charges  and  cost  of  each  separate  plant,  but  not  each 
particular  unit  or  building  in  that  plant,  is  that  correct? 

Mr.  Gregg.  That  is  it  precisely, 

Mr.  Anderson.  All  right. 

General  Wuxiams.  Does  unit  there  mean  individual  buildings,  or  unit  of 
100,000  pounds  capacity? 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  was  not  quite  sure  from  the  question  presented  to  us  just  what 
was  meant  by  that.     Probably  Mr.  Cameron  can  explain. 

Mr.  Cameron.  It  was  by  some  distinguishing  unit. 

General  Williams.  That  is  of  the  five  or  six  thousand  buildings  down  there 
you  considered  each  one  of  them  a  unit? 
83876— 35— PT  14—20 


3468  MuisriTioNs  industry 

Mr.  Cameron.  No,  sir ;  not  quite  that. 

General  Williams.  Tlieu  wliat  do  you  mean  by  "unit"? 

Mr.  Cameiudn.  I  did  not  know  that  there  were  fix  or  six  thousand  build- 
297  ings  there.  I  do  not  Ivnow  yet  if  there  are.  But  I  meant  tliat  a  unit  of 
measure  may  change  in  any  project.  Wliat  they  may  have  distinguished 
as  a  particular  proportion  of  this  plant,  or  a  particular  construction  of  this 
jilant  by  whatever  unit  they  follow.  That  was  a  mere  inquiry  to  find  out  what 
the  unit  of  their  cost  was  pursuant  to  their  books.  It  was  answered  to  me  pro 
tempore  to  my  satisfaction ;  it  is  being  answered  to  my  satisfaction ;  to  get  at 
the  manner  in  wliich  the  du  Pont  Company  itself  carried  their  costs  of  con- 
struction. 

Ml'.  Gregg.  Does  that  answer  your  question.  General? 

General  Williams.  Yes. 

Mr.  Gregg  (continuing  reading  answer  to  question  1)  : 

"(6)  Operation. — The  operating  ledgers  were  handled  in  a  somewhat  similar 
manner.  The  controling  account  for  operating  cost,  however,  was  not  sub- 
divided as  in  the  case  of  the  construction  ledgers.  Each  month's  operating  cost 
was  posted  in  total  to  the  controling  account.  The  detail  costs  were  kept  by  a 
separate  division  which  prepared  monthly  cost  sheets  showing  the  total  and 
unit  costs  of  manufactured  products,  and  also  the  total  and  unit  cost  of  semi- 
finished products  in  the  several  stages  of  manufacture.  These  cost  sheets  were 
prepared  monthly  throughout  the  duration  of  field  operations. 

"  The  ledgers  and  books  of  the  contractor  and  all  supplementary  records  per- 
taining thereto,  including  the  accounts  payable  vouchers,  except  such  vouchers 
as  were  not  returned  by  the  War  Department  accountants,  are  filed  in  the  Wil- 
mington office  of  the  contractor." 
29S  Mr.  Carnduff.  Pardon  me.     Would  you  answer  the  last  question  of 

question   1 :    "Is   such   now   available  for   examination   by   the   United 
States?" 

jNIr.  GREi^iG.  Well.  I  thought  we  had  that  in  there. 

Mr.  Shafer.  I  have  it  in  my  original  notes  there;  they  are  available. 

Mr.  Gregg.  Oh.  yes ;  they  are  available.  Yes ;  there  is  no  question  about 
them  being  available,  Mr.  Carnduff. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Thank  you. 

Mr.  Gregg  (continuing  reading)  : 

"  Question  2.  What  are  contractor's  views  on  a  joint  audit  of  (a)  Mason 
&  Hanger  expenditures?  (&)  Operating  expenses  as  determining  costs  in  rela- 
tion to  manufacturing  bonus  claimed? 

"Answer,  (a)  Mason  &  Hanger  expenditures. — All  invoices  paid  to  Mason 
&  Hanger  by  the  contractor,  all  Mason  »&  Hanger  pay  rolls  and  all  shop 
orders  for  materials  drawn  from  stocks  of  the  contractor  by  Mason  &  Hanger, 
were  carefully  audited  at  the  plant  by  representatives  of  the  contractor  and 
by  the  War  Department  auditing  staff.  These  bills  and  vouchers  were  sub- 
jected to  a  second  audit  by  the  War  Department's  contracting  officer  in  Wil- 
mington, and  were  approved  by  him.  During  the  reaudit,  begun  in  October 
1919,  by  the  Philadelphia  district  claims  board,  Mason  &  Hanger  expenditures 
were  again  subjected  to  a  thorough  audit. 

"(ft)  Opcratinff  expenses  as  determining  costs  in  relation  to  manufacturing 
'bonus  claimed. — Operating  costs  and  expenditures  in  connection  with  all  of 
the  operating  projects  undertaken  by  the  contractor  were  audited  in 
299  detail  throughout  the  progress  of  field  operations,  both  in  the  field 
and  at  Wilmington,  and  were  later  reaudited  by  the  auditors  of  the  War 
Department.  Mr.  W.  G.  Kileen,  supervising  accountant  for  the  War  De- 
partment, prepared  statements  showing  the  result  of  his  audit  in  checking 
contractor's  operating  costs,  compensation,  and  savings,  and  these  statements, 
together  with  other  data  relating  to  the  audit,  were  delivered  by  Mr'.  Kileen 
to  tlie  War  Doiiartment. 

"  It  would  therefore  appear  to  be  a  waste  of  time  and  money  to  make  any 
further  audit  of  the  Mason  &  Hanger  accoinit,  in  view  of  the  fact  that  several 
hundred  thousands  of  dollars  have  already  been  expended  at  the  expense  of 
the  Government  during  the  period  of  construction  and  operation,  and  during 
the  period  of  the  reaudit  which  continued  until  the  end  of  May  1922.  The 
contractor  cannot  acquiesce  in  the  expenditure  of  any  more  public  funds  in  a 
further  reaudit  of  either  the  Mason  &  Hanger  expenditures  or  expenditures 
by  the  contractor.  If  the  Government  expends  any  more  public  funds  in  con- 
nection with  a  further  reaudit  of  the  Mason  &  Hanger  expenditures  or  of 
the  contractor's  expenditures,  the  Government  must  assume  the  sole  responsi- 
bility for  pursuing  such  course. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY  3469 

"Question  3.  Has  contractor  ever  rendered  a  complete  statement  of  account 
to  United  States?    May  we  have  copy  of  its  statement? 

"Aus^^er.  Throughout  the  progress  of  field  operations,  the  contractor's  books, 

trial  balance  sheets,  accounts   receivable,   and  accounts  payable  records,   etc., 

were  checked  and  inspected  by  representatives  of  the  contracting  officer 

300  of  the  War  Department,  condensed  statements  were  issued  monthly,  and 
cash  statements  daily,  copies  of  which  were  delivered  to  the  contracting 

oflicer.  Following  cessation  of  field  operations,  the  contracting  oflicer  was 
furnished  by  the  contractor  with  a  condensed  financial  statement  monthly  for 
.approximately  one  year.  The  contractor  then  discontinued  sending  in  such 
statement  at  the  request  of  the  contracting  oflicer.  Subsequently  such  state- 
ments were  renewed  upon  the  request  of  the  contracting  oflicer  whenever  they 
were  requested  by  the  contracting  oflicer.  Attached  hereto,  marked  '  Exhibit 
3  ",  is  a  condensed  financial  statement  showing  the  status  of  the  contractor's 
accounts  with  the  United  States  as  of  October  31,  1923.  This  statement  repre- 
sents the  actual  condition  of  the  contractor's  books  as  of  that  date,  and  is 
supported  by  the  contractor's  books  of  account  and  vouchers. 

"  Question  4." 

Mr.  Carndufp.  Pardon  me  a  moment,  Mr.  Gregg.  I  would  like  to  amplify 
that.  Was  that  previously  furnished  to  the  Grovernment,  or  is  this  the  first 
time  that  has  been? 

Mr.  Shafer.  This  is  not  an  exactly  similar  statement.  In  other  words, 
there  was  a  statement  which  showed  the  amount  due  by  the  United  States, 
showed  the  total  debits  and  total  credits  on  the  contract.  It  is  not  exactly 
the  same. 

Mr.  Cabnduff.  The  last  recap  that  I  have  found  is  the  May  31,  1922  state- 
ment.    This  then  is  an  additional  statement? 

Mr.  Shafeb.  This  statement  was  prepared  especially  because  I  went  into 
more  detail  in  this  statement  than  in  some  of  the  others. 

301  Mr.  Caknduff.  It  was  prepared  for  this  hearing? 
Mr.  Shafer-.  Yes;  for  this  hearing, 

Mr.  Gregg   (continuing  reading)  : 

"  Question  4.  Will  contractor  furnish  a  summary  of  items  disallowed  by 
United  States,  and  accepted  by  du  Pont?  This  should  include  a  summary  of 
disallowances  already  vouchered  upon  which  there  should  be  a  refund  or  credit 
due  the  United  States. 

"Answer.  Disallowances  by  the  War  Department  auditors  during  the  progress 
of  the  audit  and  accepted  conditionally  by  the  contractor  are  as  follows : 

'Old   Hickory  construction $9,  039.  92 

Old  Hickory  operation 66,  096.  94 

Penniman  construction 13,  747.  66 

Penniman   operation 7,  735.  27 

TuUytown *  1,  471.  29 

Seven   Pines 7,  283.  76 

Ives 973.  61 

Total 103,  405.  87  " 

I  will  ask  Mr.  Shafer  if  he  will  be  good  enough  to  explain  the  item  of 
-$1,471.29  under  Tullytown,  as  that  appears  in  red? 

Mr.  Shafee.  The  reason  that  item  on  Tullytown  was  a  credit  was  due  to 
the  fact  that  in  some  of  the  original  distributions  that  were  made  during  the 
progress  of  the  work,  Tullytown  was  charged  with  too  much,  in  other  words, 
the  disallowances  were  too  great ;  in  other  words,  disallowances  applicable  to 
other  contracts  got  into  Tullytown,  and  consequently  when  a  readjustment 
302  came  about  it  was  found  that  Tullytown,  instead  of  having  a  disallow- 
ance, had  something  coming  to  it,  which  is  really  offset  by  charges  on 
other  contracts,  so  it  made  that  disallowance  appear  as  a  credit  instead  of  a 
■tiebit.     It  is  merely  an  accounting  cross  entry, 

Mr.  Gregg  (continuing  reading)  : 

"A  detail  of  these  suspensions,  with  voucher  reference,  can  be  furnished  if 
Klesired. 

"  By  the  use  of  the  word  '  conditionally  '  " — in  other  words,  that  the  con- 
tractor accepted  these  disallowances  conditionally — "  is  meant  that  the  con- 
tractor accepted  the  above  disallowance  for  the  pui-pose  of  facilitating  settle- 

^  In  red. 


3470  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

ment  and  with  the  understaudiug  with  the  War  Department  representatives 
that  if  settlement  of  tlie  contracts  was  not  made,  such  disallowances  would 
be  charged  to  the  contracts. 

"  Question  5.  What  amount  does  contractor  at  this  time  admit  is  due  United 
States? 

Answer.  The  amount  due  the  United  States  us  of  October  31,  1923,  as  shown 
by  the  books  of  the  contractor  was  $958,602.07.  So  long  as  the  contracts 
remain  unsettled ",  this  account  is  subject  to  reduction  on  account  of  any 
expenditures  which  may  be  necessary  in  connection  with  the  contracts.  This 
amount  is  kept  in  separate  bank  accounts  and  all  bank  interests  accruing 
thereon  is  credited  periodically  to  the  United  States.  The  contractor  has 
frequently  urged  the  Government  during  the  past  2  or  3^  years  to  make  final 
.settlement  of  the  contracts  so  that  any  balance  remaining  in  the  hands  of  the 
contractor  at  the  time  of  such  settlement  could  be  returned  to  the  United 
States. 

303  "  Question  6.  Will  contractor  furnish  a  statement  of  operations  with 
such  an  analysis  by  way  of  schedules  to  show  generally — (1)  the  descrip- 
tion of  charges  entering  into  operations  from  which  the  basis  for  the  bonus  for 
saving  was  determined,  and  (2)  profits  on  operations  from  inception  of  opei'at- 
ing  period  to  the  end  of  operations? 

"Answer.  Statements  as  described  above  were  prepared  by  Mi\  W.  G.  Kileen^ 
supervising  accountant  for  the  War  Department,  and  were  delivered  by  him 
to  the  War  Department." 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  would  like  to  ask  you  there,  Mr.  Gregg:  Is  the  statement 
furnished  by  Mr.  Kileen,  which  we  have,  your  statement  now? 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  will  let  Mr.  Shafer  answer  that,  because  it  is  an  accounting 
matter. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  have  the  statement  here. 

Mr.  Shafer.  I  take  it  that  you  mean  our  Exhibit  4.  Our  Exhibit  4  is  cost 
sheets  to  date. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Well,  is  Exhibit  4  the  same  as  the  Kileen  exhibit  of  May  31? 

Mr.  Shafer.  It  is  similar  to  his  exhibit.  T  think  it  is  exactly  the  same.  They 
were  made  up  jointly. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  It  is  identical? 

Mr.  Shafer.  Yes. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Thank  you.  That  is  what  I  want  to  get.  We  have  had  that, 
you  see. 

Mr.  Shafer.  My  recollection  is  that  this  was  a  joint  statement  made 

304  up  by  him  and  ourselves.     I  would  like  to  explain  about  the  figures  in- 
dicating the  profits,  that  there  was  a  difference  in  the  figures.    There 

was  a  difference  in  the  figures  between  his  and  ours. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  There  was  a  difference? 

Mr.  Shafer.  Yes ;  there  was  a  difference  in  the  figures  indicating  the  profits 
of  $55,892.28. 

Mr.  Gregg  (continuing  reading)  : 

"(1)  The  description  of  charges  entering  into  operations  from  which  the 
latjls  for  the  homis  for  samng  toas  determined. — Exhibit  4  hereto  is  a  complete 
to  date  cost  sheet  dated  as  of  May  31,  1922,  which  was  checked  and  approved 
by  War  Department  auditors,  and  a  sumary  of  the  charges,  exhibit  5,  on 
which  '  saving  profit '  was  based.  In  this  connection  Mr.  Kileen  computed  a 
profit  of  $55,892.28  less  than  the  profit  calculated  by  the  contractor,  which 
amount  was  suspended  by  the  War  Department  auditors,  but  inasmuch  as  it 
is  the  contractor's  view  that  the  profits  as  indicated  by  exhibit  5  hereto  are 
correct,  this  difference  is  still  in  dispute  and  has  not  been  refunded  to  the 
contract. 

"(2)  Profits  on  operations  from  inception  of  operating  period  to  the  end  of 
operations. — Exhibit  5  hereto  contains  the  answer  to  this  question  relating  tO' 
the  Old  Hickory  contract.  In  this  connection  statements  of  costs  and  profits 
prepared  by  Mr.  Kileen,  supervising  accountant  of  the  War  Department,  were 
delivered  by  him  to  the  War  Department. 
"  Question  7." 

305  Mr.  Carnduff.  Just  a  moment,  Mr.  Gregg^.     I  would  like  to  ask  agaiu 
the  same  question,   if  exhibit  5   is   identical   with   Kileeu's   exhibit,   or 

whether  it  is  a  new  exhibit? 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  will  let  Mr.  Shafer  answer  Mr.  Carnduff's  question  if  he  will. 

Mr.  Shafer.  It  is  identical  with  Kileen's  exhibit,  with  the  exception  of  the 
fact  that  the  profits  wore  shown  by  Kileen  for  a  less  amount  than  the  profits 
shown  on  the  attached  statement. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3471 

Mr.  Caknduit.  $55,000? 

Mr.  Shafeb.  $55,892.28. 

General  Williams.  Mr.  Chairman,  I  would  like  to  ask  why,  in  view  of  the 
lact  that  we  are  establishing  the  identity  of  all  of  these  things,  it  is  necessary 
that  we  should  have  a  special  report  on  them?  Apparently  all  this  information 
was  in  the  hands  of  these  gentlemen,  and  why  did  they  not  make  use  of  it? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  We  had  tliese  exhibits  several  mouths  ago.  General,  but  we 
Jiad  no  proof  or  no  knowledge  that  the  contractor  acquiesced  in  them  or  agreed 
with  them. 

General  Williams.  Do  not  the  records  of  the  audits  show  whether  or  not 
tliey  acquiesced?  Have  you  examined  the  audit  to  see  whether  or  not  they 
did  acquiesce? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  They  show  a  difference  in  numerous  instances. 

General  Williams.  Why  could  you  not  have  asked  the  contractor  whether 
or  not  he  did?  Why  do  you  'want  to  have  a  special  meeting  to  bring  that  all 
out?    You  could  have  asked  that  question  of  the  contractor  yourself,   could 

you  not? 
30G  Mr.   Carndxiff.  I  did   ask  him   that  in   the  questionnaire,   and   he   is 

answering  it  now.  This  is  only  one  detail  of  the  special  meeting.  We 
endeavored  to  get  as  much  as  we  could  into  this  survey  in  the  shoi'test  time 
possible.     It  develops  now  that  we  are  getting  exhibits  we  never  saw  before. 

General  Williams.  It  is  likewise  developing,  to  my  mind,  that  these  gentle- 
men who  are  handling  the  case  have  made  no  proper  use  of  the  information 
which  has  been  available  to  them  for  six  months  since  the  very  time  they 
started  the  case.  And  I  cannot  see  why  our  time  should  be  wasted  doing  this 
kind  of  thing  when  they  might  have  gone  ahead  in  the  meantime  and  informed 
themselves  about  it. 

Mr.  Anderson.  General,  I  think  I  should  state  that  Mr.  Carnduff  prepared 
some  months  ago  a  list  of  these  questions  which  he  desired  to  submit  to  Mr. 
■Gregg,  and  I  held  them  up  because  I  wanted  to  examine  them  personally  and 
go  over  the  situation  a  little  before  they  \vere  submitted.  Now  if  you  feel 
that  it  is  unnecessary  to  go  through  this  detail  in  this  hearing,  it  is  quite  agree- 
able to  me,  if  it  is  agreeable  to  the  du  Pont  Company  representatives,  and  I 
am  sure  it  would  be  agreeable  to  everybody  concerned,  to  accept  this  answer 
as  a  response  to  these  questions,  and  make  a  study  of  this  answer,  and  then 
if  they  wish  to  have  a  further  hearing  before  this  Board,  to  give  them  that 
hearing.  Perhaps  we  could  save  time  by  doing  it,  except  that  these  gentlemen 
have  come  down  here,  and  I  wish  to  give  them  full  opportunity  to  be  hoard. 
I  suggested  that  they  be  given  full  opportunity  to  answer  any  of  these  questions 
as  they  might  see  fit.     That  is  my  view  of  it. 

307  General  AVilliams.  Well,  the  thought  in  my  mind  goes  back  of  your 
statement.    And  it  has  been  in  my  mind  all  along.    And  that  is  that  the 

War  Department  has  acted  on  this  contract.  It  has  had  an  audit  made.  And 
it  seems  to  me  that  these  gentlemen  should  thoroughly  have  examined  that 
audit  before  embarking  on  a  thing  like  this.     That  is  the  thought  in  my  mind. 

Mr.  Anderson.  My  understanding  is  that  they  have  thoroughly  examined  that 
audit,  and  there  are  some  points  which  are  not  clear  to  them  in  the  audit,  and 
it  is  for  tlie  purpose  of  clearing  that  up  and  ascertaining  whether  additional 
audit  was  required  that  these  hearings  were  suggested  by  me. 

I  do  not  want  to  go  into  the  expense  of  an  elaborate  investigation  and  reaudit 
of  these  items,  if  we  can  get  the  situation  explained  in  a  preliminary  and 
cursory  hearing  of  this  character.  I  do  not  think  either  side  ought  to  be  put 
to  that  expense,  if  it  can  be  avoided.  Now,  I  am  perfectly  willing,  so  far  as  I 
am  concerned,  and  I  am  sure  that  the  gentlemen  handling  this  matter  are 
willing,  to  greatly  shorten  this  hearing — in  fact,  I  think  it  might  be  materially 
shortened  by  simply  taking  the  answer  of  the  du  Pont  Company  and  making  a 
study  of  it;  and  suggesting,  if  Mr.  Gregg  wishes  to  add  anything  in  a  general 
way  to  what  has  been  said,  let  him  add  it  now,  and  then  take  all  of  this  data 
and  study  it  and  see  if  there  are  any  further  questions  that  are  to  be  developed 
and  placed  before  us  for  our  determination  as  to  whether  or  not  this  matter 
requires  further  audit  or  investigation.  Now,  that  would  save  us  a  great  deal 
of  time  of  hearing  this  matter. 

308  But,  on  the  other  hand,  I  gave  Mr.  Gregg  my  assurance  that  he  would 
have  a  full  opportunity  to  be  heard  before  this  Board,  and  I  want  him 

to  have  a  feeling  that  he  has  had  a  full  opportunity  to  be  heard ;  and  if  he 
prefers  to  go  over  it  and  explain  it  as  he  goes  on,  why,  I  am  perfectly  willing 
to  hear  it.  It  will  save  time  for  us  to  make  the  study  privately,  because  these 
answers  that  are  given  here  seem  to  be  quite  complete;  and  if  there  are  any 


3472  MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 

additional  facts  needed,  Mr.  Gregg  is  here  quite  frequently,  and  the  representa- 
tives of  the  Department  who  are  investigating  the  matter  could  confer  with 
him  and  get  those  additional  facts  without  going  through  the  formality  of  a 
hearing  liere,  for  our  consideration,  if  tliat  is  desired.  But  I  prefer  personally 
to  be  guided  in  that  matter  by  the  wishes  of  the  du  Pont  Company.  I  want  to- 
give  them  the  fullest  opportunity  to  discuss  any  phase  of  it  before  you  gentle- 
men, as  well  as  myself,  because  I  am  not  doing  any  work  on  it  myself;  I  am 
keeping  an  open  mind  on  the  whole  situation. 

]Mr.  Gregg.  I  really  had  two  thoughts  in  mind  in  reading  the  questions  and 
reading  the  answers  as  I  went  along:  One  was,  as  I  expressed  a  while  ago,  I 
did  not  have  enough  copies  to  go  around  to  everybody ;  and,  in  the  second 
place,  I  thought  someone  might  desire  to  ask  some  additional  questions  or 
desire  some  light  in  connection  with  our  answers.  I  want  to  expedite  the 
hearing  as  much  as  I  possibly  can. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  There  is  one  more  question.  Colonel,  on  that  subject,  and  I 
would  like  very  much  to  have  that  question  read  and  answered — the  last  one 
under  the  general  questions,  as  it  will  answer  General  Williams. 

309  Jlr.  Anderson.  What  is  the  question? 

Mr.  Carndtiff.  No.  7.    It  is  the  last  one  there. 

Mr.  Gregg.  Well,  question  7  is  this  [reading]  : 

"  Question  7.  Will  contractor  furnisli  a  statement  of  costs  of  construction  and 
equipment  with  such  an  analysis  by  way  of  schedules  to  show  the  costs  by 
respective  units  of  the  Avhole? 

"Answer.  As  explained  in  answer  to  question  1,  contractor  is  unable  to  fur- 
nish a  statement  of  costs  by  units,  but  a  statement,  Exhibit  6,  is  hereto  at- 
tached, showing  cost  of  construction  as  subdivided  on  the  contractor's  ledgers 
for  each  contract." 

Mr.  Cameron.  Now,  I  would  like  to  explain  to  General  Williams  and  for 
the  purpose  of  the  record :  I  actuated  that  question.  Charges  were  made,  if 
you  will  recall — I  don't  know  whether  they  got  in  the  record,  but  I  know  I 
heard  them — "Oh,  the  du  Fonts  made  fifty  million  dollars  off  of  this  project." 
Well,  I  wanted  all  the  analyses  of  what  the  moneys  were  paid  for  that  I  could 
possibly  get.  Now,  that  charge  did  not  mean  anything  in  the  world ;  anyone 
coming  up  to  me  and  saying,  "  The  du  Fonts  made  fifty  million  dollars  off  of  this 
contract."  The  only  way  to  find  out  what  they  made  out  of  it  was  to  find  what 
the  cost  of  construction  was.  Having  in  mind  83-odd  million  dollars  being 
spent  for  the  construction  of  the  plant,  having  in  mind  further  mere  sub- 
divisions of  labor,  material,  and  then  possibly  divided  into  three  or  four  sub- 
divisions, one  could  not  always  get  oxit  of  that  information  what  he  might  want 
to  get.     I  said  that  the  answer  was  satisfactory  tn  mo  in  the  interim. 

310  It  is  satisfactory  to  me  personally  in  the  interim,  because  I  am  not  in 
position,  on  any  charges,  with  information  sufficient  to  proceed  to  in- 
vestigate such  charges  of  construction. 

General  Wuxiams.  Well,  isn't  that  record  there  of  the  last  meeting  full  of 
charges? 

Mr.  Cameron.  I  beg  your  pardon? 

General  Williams.  I  say,  isn't  that  record  of  the  last  meeting  that  we  have 
here  full  of  charges? 

Mr.  Cameron.  Yes,  sir. 

General  Williams.  Couldn't  you  go  ahead  and  investigate  those  charges? 

Mr.  Cambkon.  I  can  if  I  am  directed.  General. 

General  Williams.  Well,  they  have  been  investigated  once  by  authorized 
agents  of  the  Government,  and  been  passed  on,  and  why  cannot  you  investi- 
gate the  same  records  that  the  agents  did  before? 

Mr.  Cameron.  No  reason  in  the  world,  General,  why  I  cannot  do  it  at  any 
time  that  I  am  directed  to  do  it. 

Mr.  Anderson.  An  investigation  of  the  same  record  would  require  a  very 
expensive  audit.  What  I  have  you  been  trying  to  do  is  to  save  time  and  save 
expense  by  applying  my  experience  in  dealing  with  questions  of  this  kind, 
Avhich  is  not  large,  perh.-ips,  but  which  is  rather  varied,  that  by  getting  around 
a  table  you  can  very  often  explain  more  in  an  hour  than  you  can  Jearn  by  in- 
vestigating for  3  weeks,  and  v/hat  I  have  been  trying  to  do  was  to  get  around' 
the  table  and  get  these  things  cleared  up  by  people  who  knew,  and  not  make  it 
necessary  to  have  independent  auditors  appi-oach  the  matter  without  any 

311  primary  knowledge,  and  go  into  an  elaborate  audit  which  will  cost  the 
Government  a  very  great  amount  of  money,  and  which  the  Department 

of  Justice  hasn't  the  money  to  make. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3473 

General  Williams.  We  got  around  the  table  once  before,  with  certain  ex- 
ceptions, and  listened  to  a  lot  of  specific  things  that  were  charged  in  the 
execution  of  this  contract.  Now  the  thing  tiuit  I  cannot  understand  is  why 
those  specific  things  cannot  be  investigated  witliout  a  general  audit  of  the 
contract,  without  this  large  expenditure  of  money  which  we  all  know  would 
be  necessary  if  you  are  going  to  go  into  a  general  audit  of  the  contract.  Why 
cannot  a  specific  charge  be  investigated — take  for  instance  the  question  of 
railroad  freight  rates,  Avluch  Mr.  McLane,  I  l>elieve,  brought  out — wliy  can- 
not that  specific  thing  be  investigated  and  determined  whether  or  not  that 
charge  is  correct? 

Mr.  Anderson.  Isn't  that  covered  by  this  question? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  The  next  questions.  General,  are  in  the  matter  of  specific 
items. 

General  Willlvms.  Well,  take  a  lot  of  the  other  specific  things  that  were 
charged  in  tlie  last  hearing.  Why  cannot  those  be  individually  investigated 
to  see  whether  or  not  they  were  correct? 

Mr.  Carndufi\  Colonel  Anderson  thought  it  best  to  ask  the  du  Pont  repre- 
sentatives frankly  as  to  those  specific  questions,  and  hear  their  views  on  it,  and 
the  remainder  of  this  questionnaire  is  directed  to  those  specific  items,  the 
freight,  the  railroads,  the  cotton,  and  the  Mason  &  Hanger  contract.  Those 
specific  items  were  asked  the  du  Fonts. 

General  Wiixiams.  These  questions  here  are  very  largely  general  in  their 
nature,  it  seems  to  me,  mostly. 

312  Mr.  Anderson.  But  they  are  the  preliminary  questions  which  are  the 
foundations  for  the  siveeific  questions  which  follow. 

General  Williams.  But  the  specific  questions  have  already  been  raised,  and 
they  are  now  in  the  record  of  the  last  meeting. 

Mr.  Anderson.  And  they  are  in  this  questionnaire.  In  other  words,  they  are 
in  this  report  of  the  du  Pont  Company,  but  we  have  not  been  able  to  go  over 
the  whole  report.  Now  I  am  as  loathe  as  anybody  to  sit  here  and  go  over 
those  details  unless  it  is  necessary  to  the  end  of  expeditious  handling  of  this 
matter,  and  justice  to  the  du  Pont  Company. 

There  were  a  lot  of  specific  things  charged  here,  as  you  say,  and  I  asked 
these  geutlenien  to  prepare  a  series  <^f  questions  which  dealt  with  those  specific 
things,  as  well  as  any  other  points  w'hich  occurred  to  them,  and  submit  them  to 
Mr.  Gregg,  and  jNIr.  Gregg  and  these  gentlemen  spent  a  day  together  in  dis- 
cussing and  formulating  these  questions  so  that  he  could  answer  them,  and 
he  came  here  today  prepared  to  answer  them.  If  they  require  further  investi- 
gation we  will  take  up  the  detail  of  investigation  afterwards. 

Now  I  would  have  carried  on  this  investigation  outside  except  for  the  fact 
that  I  had  promised  that  the  du  Pont  Company  would  have  an  o]>iiortunity  to 
explain  anything  that  came  up  in  this  case  before  these  three  gentlemen  liere, 
including  myself,  and  I  want  to  carry  out  that  promise,  and  I  want  to  give  them 
a  chance  to  explain  it  in  their  own  way  as  far  as  they  are  concenaeil,  and  give 
us  the  answers,  and  the  answers  may  remove  a  lot  of  misapprehension,  and  so 
forth,  when  they  get  through. 

313  Then   if  there   are   any   other   points   they   want    to   investigate,    Mr. 
Gregg  and  Mr.  Carnduff  can  discuss  them  together,  and  clear  them  up 

so  the  record  will  be  complete. 

But  if  it  is  desired  not  to  sit  here  and  hear  that  data  given,  it  is  perfectly 
agreeable  to  me,  if  it  is  agreeable  to  the  representatives  of  the  du  Pont  Com- 
pany, that  Mr.  Carnduff  and  Mr.  McLane  and  Mr.  Gregg  and  Mr.  Shafer  and 
these  other  gentlemen  shall  get  around  a  table  and  discuss  it  among  them- 
selves, and  make  up  their  report  on  it,  and  not  bother  us  here  at  all.  But  I 
want  to  give  them  that  preference.  I  am  willing  to  sit  here  and  hear  them, 
as  a  matter  of  justice  to  them,  as  well  as  expeditious  disposal  of  the  matter,  if 
they  desire  it.  In  other  words.  I  have  carried  out  my  promise  to  them  that 
they  could  have  a  hearing  onn  this  matter  if  I  could  get  it.  Now  it  is  entirely 
for  the  Board  to  determine  whether  they  want  to  have  it  now,  or  rather  have 
these  gentlemen  get  together  and  eliminate  all  the  questions  they  can,  and 
then  hear  the  balance. 

The  Chairman  (xVssistant  Secretary  Davis).  How  do  the  du  Pont  people  feel 
about  that?     Would  they  rather  go  through  with  it? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Well,  Mr.  Chairman,  I  do  not  want  to  take  up  the  time  of  the 
Board,  but  there  have  been  so  many  charges  and  countercharges  made  against 
the  du  Pont  Company  in  connection  with  this  work,  charges  that  the  du  Pont 
Company  feels  were  absolutely  unwarranted  and  unjustifiable,   and  the  only 


3474  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

thing  thai  we  are  doing  here  is  to  submit  ourselves  to  inquiry  from  the  Board 
as  to  any  light  that  the  Board  may  desire  in  connection  with  this  work. 

314  As  I  stated  at  the  beginning  this  morning,  all  of  these  things  have  been 
gone  over,  and  gone  over  repeatedly  by  Government  representatives  dur- 
ing the  reaudit  which  was  begun  in  the  fall  of  1919,  and  which  was  continued 
by  the  War  Department  until  the  end  of  May  1922,  involving  the  expenditure 
of  hundreds  of  thousands  of  dollars.  As  I  said,  there  are  one  or  two  minor 
points  here  that,  as  I  recall  it,  were  not  specifically  brought  up  heretofore. 

But  what  I  do  want  the  Board  to  understand  is  that  the  du  Pont  Company 
has  nothing  to  cover  up  in  connection  with  this  work.  All  of  our  records 
are  open  to  anyone  who  wants  to  examine  them.  So  far  as  we  are  concerned 
we  are  proud  of  the  work  that  we  did  for  the  Government.  We  did  it  in  the 
best  way  that  we  possibly  could  under  the  circumstances  that  existed  in  1918, 
and  we  have  no  excuses  to  offer.  But  I  do  not  want  anyone  to  feel  that  there 
is  anything  in  connection  with  the  contracts  between  the  du  Pout  Engineering 
Company  and  the  United  States  that  is  not  open  to  any  Government  represen- 
tative who  wants  to  inquire  into  them.  They  have  been  inquired  into ;  vouchers 
have  been  handled,  until  some  of  them  are  practically  worn  out.  Not  handled 
and  gone  over  once,  by  Government  auditors,  but  gone  over  how  many  times, 
Mr.  Shafer? 

Mr.  Shafer.  I  would  hate  to  say.  I  couldn't  tell  you.  I  know  that  there 
are  some  of  them  that  I  have  had  that  are  pretty  badly  worn  out. 

Mr.   GKBX5G.  Yes.     I  am  perfectly   willing  to  abide  by   any   course  that  the 

Board  wishes  to  pursue,  and  I  do  not  want  to  take  up  the  time  of  the  Board 

and  more  than  is  absolutely  necessary,  but  I  do  want  to  put  this  one 

315  point  across,  and  that  is,  that  everything  that  we  did  for  the  Government 
was   open   and  aboveboard,   and  there  is   nothing  to  cover  up,   nothing 

to  hide,  and  we  are  perfectly  willing  that  anyone  should  ask  us  any  question 
that  they  may  have  in  their  mind  about  the  work.  And  we  will  answer  it  to 
the  best  of  our  ability. 

IMr.  Anderson.  Mr.  Gregg,  would  it  be  equally  agreeable  to  the  du  Pont 
Company,  with  that  statement  from  you,  which  is  certainly  very  broad  and 
comprehensive,  to  adjourn  this  hearing  to  our  office,  for  instance,  and  you  take 
the  matter  up  with  Messrs.  CarndufC  and  the  gentlemen  you  have  been  dis- 
cussing it  with  from  time  to  time,  and  who  went  to  Wilmington  to  go  over 
the  matter  with  you  and  other  officers,  and  run  over  these  additional  ques- 
tions and  see  if  there  is  any  additional  data  that  they  want  that  you  have  not 
given  in  this  answer,  and  with  your  position  thus  fully  upon  the  record  of 
this  case,  see  if  the  details  cannot  be  all  worked  out  without  these  officers 
having  to  sit  here  to  hear  this  discussion  and  these  detailed  questions?  If 
that  would  be  quite  agreeable  to  the  du  Pont  Company,  in  my  view  it  would 
probably  facilitate  the  arrivins;  at  a  conclusion,  and  you  having  now  put  your 
position  on  the  record  as  clearly  as  you  have,  it  seems  to  me  that  the  larger 
purpose  of  asking  to  come  here  for  hearing  has  been  to  a  great  extent  accom- 
plished. And  then  after  they  have  completed  their  investigation  of  all  these 
details,  it  there  were  any  additional  matters  upon  which  you  wished  to  be 
heard,  or  whicli  they  would  wish  to  have  the  Board  hear  and  put  upon  the 

record,  we  could  have  a  special  sitting  for  that  purpose. 
316  Would  that  be  quite  agreeable  to   the  du  Pont   Company,   or  would 

you  rather  go  ahead  now  as  you  are? 
General  Williams.  Inasmuch  as  my  question  apparently  has  brought  about 
this  situation,  I  would  like  to  say  that  I  have  no  dbjeetiou  to  giving  all  of  the 
time  that  is  necessary  to  the  du  Pont  Company  that  it  wants  to  present  any- 
thing it  has  to  say  on  this.  The  object  of  my  question  is  that  I  wondered 
in  my  own  mind  what  the  Governments  prosecutors  of  the  case  have  done 
with  the  vast  amount  of  information  which  they  already  have  available  to 
them,  and  I  was  wondering  why  it  was  necessary  for  them  to  present  these 
questions,  and  why  they  could  not  determine  these  things  for  themselves 
beforehand. 

Mr.  Andfrson.  Well.  I  can  answer  that.  General,  probably  bettor  than  these 
gentlemen.  They  have  lieen  working  on  the  information  which  they  have  and 
on  the  data  which  they  have,  and  undertook  to  summarize,  in  the  light  of  the 
record  of  the  former  hearing,  and  charges  there  made,  without  expressing  any 
opinion  thereon — at  my  request  they  undertook  to  summarize  a  series  of  ques- 
tions which  would  bring  forth  a  complete  answer  to  all  of  these  propositions 
that  have  been  put  before  this  Board. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3475 

If  at  the  former  meeting  we  liad  been  in  a  position — which  I  regretted  we 

were  not — to  have  nn  open  discussion  of  the  whole  thing,  we  probably  could 

have  avoided  this,  but  I  did  think  then,  and  I  think  now,  that  in  addition  to 

giving  to  the   representatives  of  the  Dei)artmeut   of  Justice,   who  have  been 

charged  with  the  duty  of  investigating  tliis  case,  for  its  final  conclusion, 

317  answers  to  these  questions,  the  du  I'ont  Company  were  entitled  to  come 
before  this  Board,  consisting  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War,  your- 
self, and  myself,  and  make  further  statements,  make  any  statements  on  the 
subject  they  wished,  their  attention  having  been  directed  to  these  specific 
questions.  I  think  that  is  due  the  du  Pont  Company.  And  it  was  for  that 
reason  tliat  I  have  come  here  today,  at  some  inconvenience,  to  hear  it.  I 
think  that  we  want  to  treat  them  with  absolute  fairness,  and  that  has  been 
my  purpose  throughout,  and  it  is  entirely  in  their  hands,  so  far  as  I  am 
concerned,  whether  they  go  ahead  with  a  detailed  discussion  here,  or  com- 
plete the  discussion  with  these  gentlemen,  with  the  general  statement  before 
us  which  is  made,  and  then  we  are  in  the  position  to  call  for  additional 
information  later. 

Mr.  Gregg.  How  would  it  do  for  me  to  run  through  the  remainder  of  our 
answers  to  your  questions,  and  perhaps  in  doing  so  today  it  may  occur  to 
some  one  of  the  members  of  the  Board  that  he  desires  some  additional  infor- 
mation, and  if  we  can  get  that  of  record,  why,  then  we  can  go  ahead  and  get 
it  up  for  you. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  agree  with  you. 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  want  to  get  through  today  myself.  I  do  not  want  it  to  run 
over  tomorrow  unless  it  is  absolutely  necessary. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Is  that  agreeable  to  you,  Mr.  Chairman? 

The  Chairman   (Assistant  Secretary  Davis).  Yes. 

Mr.  Gregg.  The  next  heading  is  "  In  the  Matter  of  Specific  Items  of 
Inquiry." 

318  1.  "  Mason  &  Hanger  Transaction. 

"  Question.  1.  What  were  du  Pout's  dealings  v\'ith  Mason  &  Hanger 
previous  to  this  contract?  " 

I  might  explain  that  that  question  relates  to  a  subcontract  that  thedu  Pont 
Engineering  Company  made  with  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company  for  construc- 
tion work  at  the  Old  Hickory  powder  plant,  and  I  will  discuss  it  a  little 
farther  on.      [Continuing  reading:] 

"Answer.  The  only  dealings  between  the  du  Pont  Company  and  Mason  & 
Hanger  previous  to  the  subcontracts  at  Old  Hickory  consisted  in  the  purchase 
by  Mason  &  Hanger  Company  of  explosives  from  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  & 
Company,  just  the  same  as  the  du  Pont  Company  sold  explosives  to  other 
contractors  throughout  the  country. 

"  Question  2.  Who  negotiated  contract  between  du  Pont  and  Mason  Sc 
Hanger? 

"Answer.  The  contracts  were  negotiated,  on  the  part  of  the  du  Pont  Engi- 
neering Company,  by  H.  M.  Pierce,  then  chief  engineer  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 
Nemours  &  Company,  now  president  of  du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  and 
by  John  L.  Pratt,  then  special  assistant  to  Chief  Engineer  II.  M.  Pierce,  and 
now  vice  president  and  director  of  General  Motors  Corporation ;  and  on  the 
part  of  the  Mason  &.  Hanger  Company  by  Silas  Mason  and  H.  B.  Hanger. 

"Question  3.  Have  du  Pouts  any  stock  in  Mason  &  Hanger? 

"Answer.  Neither  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  nor  du  Pont  Engi- 
neering   Company,    nor    any    of    their    sul)sidiaries,    nor    any    of    their 

319  ofiicers,  has  any  stock  or  other  financial  interest  in  Mason  &  Hanger 
Company. 

"  Question  4.  Who  does  own  majority  of  Mason  &  Hanger  stock? 

"Answer.  After  this  question  was  propounded,  we  have  been  informed  that 
over  90  percent  of  the  stock  of  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company  is  owned  jointly 
by  Silas  Mason,  and  H.  B.  Hanger  and  John  C.  Watts. 

"  Question  5.  Explain  circumstances  of  concern  now  rated  at  .$400,000  to 
$500,000  capital,  with  class  B  credit  rating  in  a  town  of  5,662  population 
receiving  a  contract  totaling  $21,511,175.80  on  which  they  were  paid  a  fee  of 
$1,075,558.79?     (R.  G.  Dun  1923  listing.)      ($1,075,558.79,  $250,000,  $825,558.79.) 

"Answer.  The  contractor's  answer  and  position  with  respect  to  this  matter  is 
fully  set  forth  in  a  brief  filed  by  the  contractor  with  the  Secretary  of  War  on 
November  22,  1922,  which  was  referred  by  the  Secretary  of  War  with  other 
papers  to  the  Attorney  General  in  December  1922  with   request  for  opinion. 


3476  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

The  reasons  for  making  the  subcontract  with  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company, 
and  the  fee  contracted  to  be  paid  thereunder,  are  stated  in  the  brief  above 
referred  to,  a  copy  of  wliich  is  lierewith  submitted,  marked  '  Exhibit  7 '." 

General  Wiuliams.  May  I  ask,  Mr.  Chairman,  why  a  question  like  that  was 
submitted  when  the  answer  was  in  the  hands  of  the  Attorney  General? 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  do  not  know. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  can  answer  that.  There  is  a  dispute  as  to  the  amount  of 
fee  that  should  be  paid  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company.  The  amount  in  dis- 
pute is  the  $825,000  referred  to  at  the  end  of  the  question.    A  brief  was 

320  submitted  by  Mr.   Gregg,   which   was  in   our  hands.      Simply   his   brief 
on  that  question.     We  endeavored  to  get  any  further  information  we 

could  at  this  time  when  we  were  questioning  him.  One  of  the  valuable  points 
he  has  brought  out  to  our  satisfaction  today  is  that  there  is  no  stock  relation- 
ship between  the  two  companies.    He  has  gone  on  record  on  that  point. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Well,  I  am  very  glad  to  get  that  information,  because  it 
has  been  stated  to  me  a  number  of  times  that  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company 
is  a  subsidiary  of  the  du  Fonts. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Charges  of  that  character  were  made,  and  we  have  had  the 
question  answered. 

Mr.  Anderson.  It  has  been  stated  to  me  a  dozen  times,  and  I  am  very  glad 
indeed  to  get  that  analysis  of  the  situation.  When  I  say  it  has  been  stated  to 
me,  I  do  not  mean  it  has  been  stated  to  me  by  my  assistants.  I  mean  it  has 
been  stated  to  me  by  outsiders. 

General  Williams.  The  thing  I  can  not  understand  is  why  when  that  paper 
was  in  the  hands  of  the  Attorney  General  the  information  was  not  imme- 
diately obtained.  It  seems  to  me  to  be  considered  as  very  pertinent.  It  was 
available,  I  take  it,  Mr.  Gregg,  at  any  time? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Yes,  indeed. 

I  want  to  add  here  that  this  matter  with  respect  to  the  Mason  &  Hanger 
fee  was  sent  to  the  Attorney  General  for  opinion  at  my  request.  Mr.  Wain- 
wright,  who  was  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War  at  that  time,  made  a  dis- 
allowance of  a  little  over  $179,000,  and  in  my  judgment  his  decision  was  a 
purely  arbitrary  one,  not  based  on  the  facts,  the  contracts,  nor  the  law.  And 
Mr.  Haskell  and  myself  came  to  Washington  and  saw  Mr.  Weeks  and 

321  asked  him  if  lie  would  not  be  good  enough  to  have  it  sent  over  to  the 
Attorney  General  for  an  opinion,  and  it  was  sent  over  there  in  December 

of  1922. 

General  Williams.  A  year  ago. 

Mr.  Gregg.  A  year  ago. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Well,  the  Attorney  General  rendered  an  opinion  on  it  several 
months  ago. 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  never  saw  it.    Was  it  sent  to  the  AVar  Department? 

Mr.  Carndxtff.  I  cannot  say  as  to  that.  But  it  went  up  from  the  advisory 
council  about  eight  or  nine  months  ago. 

Mr.  Gregg.  Do  you  know  whether  or  not  it  has  been  received.  General 
Williams? 

General  Williams.  I  have  not  heard  about  it.     Do  you  know,  Booton? 

Major  BooTON.  There  was  a  partial  opinion  received,  that  Mr.  Wainwright 
was  entirely  wrong  in  his  construction  of  the  contract,  but  referring  to  other 
matters  which  the  Attorney  General  desired  further  information  on,  and  in  the 
reply  to  that  letter  the  Secretary  of  War  supplied,  as  far  as  he  could,  a  refer- 
ence to  the  further  information  desired,  and  asked  that  a  final  opinion  be 
rendered. 

Mr.  Gregg.  Well,  now,  is  it  the  final  opinion,  Mr.  Carnduff,  that  you  refer 
to,  or  is  it  this  letter? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  No  ;  I  refer  to  the  answer  of  the  Advisory  Council  of  the 
War  Transactions  Board  to  the  Secretary  of  War. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  know  nothing  about  that.  It  has  never  been  before  me  at 
all. 

Major  BooTO^:.  The  final   opinion   was  particularly  requested  as  this 

322  was  the  only  legal  question  outstanding  in  the  War  Department,  which 
the  War  Department  did  not  feel  competent  to  answer,  and  the  answer  to 

that  question  would  put  the  Secretary  of  War  in  a  position  to  finally  settle 
the  contract. 

Mr.  Gregg  (continuing  reading)  : 

"  Question  6.  What  are  the  intercorporate  relations  of  Du  Pont  and  Mason 
&  Hanger? 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTEY  3477 

"Answer.  This  question  is  answered  by  the  replies  to  questions  1  and  3 
iibove,  under  heading  '  In  the  Matter  of  Specific  Item  of  Inquiry ',  and  no 
other  corporate  relations  exist." 

That  answer  was  to  the  effect  that  the  only  relations  that  have  ever 
existed  between  the  du  Pont  Company  and  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company  is 
that  Mason  &  Hanger  purchased  explosives  from  the  du  Pont  Company  the 
same  as  other  contractors.     [Continuing  reading:] 

"  Question  7.  Was  the  du  Pout  official  who  negotiated  the  Mason  &  Hanger 
contract  aware  of  the  maximum  fee  of  $250,000  in  War  Department  regula- 
tions V  Is  it  not  a  fact  that  Mason  &  Hanger  had  other  Government  con- 
tracts with  regulation  scale  of  feesV 

"Answer.  The  du  Pout  officials  who  negotiated  the  Mason  &  Hanger  con- 
tracts were  not  aware  of  a  maximum  fee  of  $250,000,  fixed  by  the  War  Depart- 
ment regulations  to  be  paid  to  subcontractors,  as  they  did  uot  then  have 
any  information  or  knowledge  of  a  War  Department  regulation  or  regula- 
tions fixing  a  .maximum  fee  of  $250,000  to  subcontractors,  nor  has  the  con- 
tractor  ever   been   furnished   with   any  such   regulation  or  regulations, 

323  nor   was   the   contractor   ever   instructed   by   any   representative   of   the 
Government   to   limit  the   fees    to   he   paid    to   subcontractors,    nor   was 

the  contractor  confined  to  any  such  limit  under  its  contracts  with  the  Unitetl 
States. 

"A  copy  of  the  agency  contract,  dated  January  29,  1918,  between  the 
•du  Pont  Engineering  Company  and  the  United  States  for  the  construction 
and  operation  of  the  Old  Hickory  plant ;  a  copy  of  the  contract  of  March 
2'6,  1918,  between  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  and  the  United  States,  which 
canceled  and  superseded  the  contract  aforesaid  of  January  29,  1918;  a  copy 
of  the  contract  of  February  6,  1918,  between  du  Pont  Engineering  Company 
and  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company,  and  a  copy  of  the  contract  of  March  23, 
1918,  between  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  and  the  Mason  &  Hanger 
Company,  which  canceled  and  superseded  the  contract  aforesaid  of  February 
6,  1918,  are  attached  to  and  made  a  part  of  the  brief  filed  by  the  du  Pont 
Engineering  Company  with  the  Secretary  of  War  on  November  22,  1922,  which 
is  hereto  attached,  marked  '  Exhibit  7.'  " 

Mr.  Gregg.  In  that  connection  I  would  like  to  make  this  explanation. 
The  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  first  entered  into  a  contract  with  the 
Government  for  the  construction  and  operation  of  the  Old  Hickory  smoke- 
less powder  plant  or  January  29,  1918.  Mr.  D.  C.  Jackling,  then  being  a 
special  representative  of  the  Secretary  of  War  in  charge  of  the  constru'tion 
of  Government  smokeless  powder  plants.  That  contract  was  an  agency  con- 
tract; in  other  words,  the  du  Pout  Engineering  Company,  under  that  contract, 
acted  as  an  agent  for  the  United  States.  The  plant  was  to  have  a  daily 
capacity  of  500,000    pounds    of    smokeless    powder.      And    it    was    to 

324  consist  of  five  units.     The  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  under   that 
contract  was  to  be  paid  a  fee  of  three  percent  on  account  of  the  cost  of 

the  construction  of  the  plant,  the  cost  being  estimated  at  $50,000,000.  The 
contract  provided  that  the  fees  to  the  du  Pont  Company  under  that  contract 
on  account  of  construction  should  not  exceed  $1,.500,000,  and  in  addition  tliereto 
tlie  contractor  was  to  be  paid  $500,000  for  preparing  the  plans  and  designing 
the  plant.  In  other  words,  a  total  compensation  of  $2,000,000  on  account  of 
construction. 

In  connection  with  the  operation  of  the  plant  the  du  Pont  Engineering 
Company  was  to  be  paid  3%  cents  per  pound  for  each  pound  of  powder  manu- 
factured. Certain  base  prices  for  powder  were  given  in  the  contract,  and  it 
further  provided  that  in  the  event  the  contractor  was  able  to  get  the  actual 
cost  of  powder  below  the  base  price  mentioned  in  the  contract,  then  the  con- 
tractor was  to  receive  50  percent  of  any  such  sale. 

In  working  under  that  contract  we  were  confronted  with  approvals  of 
plans  by  representatives  of  the  Government  who  knew  little  or  nothing  about 
the  construction  of  powder  plants.  Mr.  Jackling  had  a  force  in  New  York 
City,  and  he  also  had  an  office  here  in  Washington  with  a  force  of  employees. 

It  was  necessary,  before  incurring  any  expenditures  under  that  contract,  to 
secure  Mr.  Jackling's  approval,  or  the  approval  of  one  of  his  delegated  rep- 
resentatives. We  soon  found  ourselves  in  the  position  of  not  getting  anywhere 
in  connection  with  the  construction  of  the  plant. 

325  Thereupon  the  representatives  of  the  du  Pont  Company  enme  to  Wash- 
ington,   took   the   matter   up   with    the    Ordnance   Department    and    the 

Secretary  ol  War,  and  voluntarily  suggested  to  the  Secretary  of  War  that  if 


3478  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

the  Government  would  give  the  du  Pont  Company  a  contract  that  would  en- 
able the  du  Pont  Company  to  go  ahead  and  construct  and  operate  the  plant 
in  its  own  way ;  or,  in  other  words,  in  the  same  jjianner  as  it  had  constructed 
and  was  operating  its  own  plants,  the  du  Pont  Company  would  waive  all 
profit  on  account  of  construction,  and  would  build  a  plant  for  the  Govern- 
ment for  cost  plus  a  dollar,  and  profit  on  operation  to  remain  the  same  as  it 
was  under  the  agency  contract. 

The  du  Pont  Company  realized  at  that  time  that  the  Government  wag  in 
urgent  need  of  the  iwwder.  In  fact,  the  quantity  of  powder  then  available- 
was  only  about  one-half  of  the  Government's  requirements  for  the  year  1918, 
and  the  du  Pont  Company,  from  a  patriotic  standpoint,  and  v/ith  an  urgent 
desire  to  assist  the  Government,  waived  its  profit  on  construction,  provided  it 
could  be  given  a  free  hand  and  go  ahead  and  get  the  plant  constructed  and 
into  operation  at  the  earliest  possible  moment. 

To  this  suggestion  of  the  du  Pont  Company  the  Secretary  of  War  agreed.. 
And  thereupon  a  new  contract,  dated  March  23,  1918,  was  entered  into  between 
the  du  Pout  Engineering  Company  and  the  United  States.  That  contract  can- 
celing and  superseding  the  contract  of  January  29,  1918. 

That  a  wise  course  was  pursued  by  the  Government  in  entering  into  the 
new  contract  is  perfectly  evident  from  the  fact  that  the  first  contract  was 
dated  Januaiy  29,  and  the  second  one  on  March  23,  and  the  du  Pojit  Com- 
pany began  the  manufacture  of  powder  at  Old  Hickory  in  .July  of  1918. 
826  And  ahead  of  the  contract  schedule.  And  while  the  first  unit  was  com- 
pleted in  July,  the  remaining  additional  units,  up  to  the  seventh  unit, 
as  I  recall  it,  were  brought  into  operation  ahead  of  the  contract  schedule. 

I  neglected  to  state  that  when  the  new  contract  of  March  23,  1918,  was 
entered  into  the  capacity  of  the  plant  was  increased  from  500,000  pounds  a 
day  to  90<:),000  pounds  a  day. 

The  next  question  is   [continuing  reading]  : 

'•  Is  it  not  a  fact  that  Mason  &  Hanger  had  other  Government  contracts  with 
regulation  scale  of  fees?" 

Mr.  Haskeix.  May  I  interrupt  you  a  moment  there,  Mr.  Gregg?  Shouldn't 
you  add  to  that  statement — or  give  the  Board  a  description  of  the  two  con- 
tracts that  were  made  with  Mason  &  Hanger,  one  approved  by  Mr.  Jackling- 
and  the  other  one 

Mr.  Gregg   (interposing).  I  was  coming  to  that  later,  Mr.  Haskell. 

Mr.  Haskeix.  All  riglit. 

Mr.  Gregg.  The  next  question  is : 

"  Is  it  not  a  fact  that  Mason  &  Hanger  had  other  Government  contracts  with, 
regulation  scale  of  fees?" 

"Answer.  The  Government  is  in  a  better  position  to  obtain  this  information 
than  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company. 

"  Question  8.  What  check  was  keiit  on  Mason  &  Hanger  exiienditures? 

"Answer.  The  answer  to  this  question  is  covered  in  our  answer  to  question 
2  under  heading  '  General  Inquiries.' 

"  Question  9.  Did  they  not  buy  from  Du  Pont  subsidiaries?  Was  this 
327       an  agreed  arrangement? 

"Answer.  It  is  possible  that  Mason  &  Hanger  in  their  work  at  Old 
Hickory  may  have  made  some  minor  purchases  from  Du  I'ont  subsidiaries,  but 
Mason  »&  Hanger  invoices  were  not  classified  in  accordance  with  the  names 
of  the  vendors  from  whom  they  made  purchases,  and  in  order  to  ascertain 
from  whom  Mason  &  Hanger  purchased  their  various  materials,  it  would  be 
necessary  to  make  a  complete  analysis  of  all  of  the  subvouchers  attached  to 
their  invoices.  There  was  certainly  no  agreed  arrangement  that  the  Mason 
&  Hanger  Company  should  purchase  from  Du  Pont  subsidiaries. 

"  Question  10.  What  was  the  necessity  for  agreeing  to  an  milimited  5%  fee,, 
obviously  excessive  when  regulations  called  for  a  maximum  of  $250,000? 

"Answer.  We  h  ive  n<>  knowUHlge  of  any  '\Var  Department  regulations  calling 
for  a  maximum  fee  of  $250,COJ  to  subcontractors,  nor  do  we  consider  the  5"/o 
fee  paid  to  Mason  &  Hanger  excessive  tnider  the  conditions  v\'hich  then 
existed.  The  contractor's  position  with  respect  to  this  matter  is  set  forth  in 
Exhibit  7  hereto." 

Mr.  Gregg.  When  v.'e  entered  into  the  contract  of  January  29,  1918,  with, 
the  Government  for  the  construction  and  operation  of  the  Old  Hickjory  plant,, 
that  contract  contained  this  provision,  in  article  5 : 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3479 

"Whenever  it  is  inexpedient  for  any  portion  of  the  woik  of  or  connected 
with  said  construction  to  lie  performed  by  the  construction  manager  " — mean- 
ing the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company — "  it  may,  in  its  discretion,  sublet 

328  such  portion  of  the  work,  provided  tlie  contract  of  subletting  is  submitted 
to  and  approved  by  the  special  director  before  being  entered  into  by  the 

construction  manager." 

Upon  the  execution  of  thr.t  contract  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  en- 
deavored to  secure  the  best  subcontractor  that  it  could  in  connection  with  the 
consruction  work  at  Old  Hickory,  realizing  that  it  was  essential  that  the  plant 
l)e  constructed  at  the  earliest  possible  date,  and  after  numerous  inquiries  the 
du  Pont  Engineering  Company  selected  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company,  for  the 
reason  that  so  far  as  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  could  ascertain  the 
Mason  &  Hanger  Company  had  a  good  record  in  connection  with  construction 
work. 

Negotiations  were  then  entered  into  between  iNIr.  Pierce,  chief  engineer,  and 
Mr.  Pratt,  his  assistant,  with  Mr.  Mason  and  Mr.  Hanger  witli  respect  to  a 
subcontract.  And  a  contract  was  entered  into  on  February  6,  1918,  which  con- 
tract was  submitted  to  and  approved  by  Mr.  Jackling,  special  director,  as  the 
lejn-esentative  of  the  Secretary  of  War. 

General  Wiixiams.  AVere  not  these  facts  all  known  beforehand? 

Mr.  GniXG.  What  is  that? 

General  Wiltjams.  Were  not  these  facts  all  known  to  the  Department  of 
Justice  beforehand? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Certainly. 

Mr.  Gregg.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Caunditff.  We  have  copies  of  all  these  contracts. 

329  Mr.  Gregg.  The  contract  of  February  6,  1918,  entered  into  with  the 
Mason  &  Hanger  Company,  in  article  3  provides  for  the  fee  to  be  paid 

to  that  company,  and  the  provision  is  as  follows : 

"  DETERMINATION  OF  FEE 

"As  full  compensation  for  the  services  of  the  contractor,  including  profit  and 
all  general  overhead  expenses  (except  as  herein  specifically  provided),  the 
agent  shall  pay  to  the  contractor  from  funds  to  be  supplied  by  the  United 
States  as  above  provided,  a  fee  of  five  percent  (5%)  of  the  cost  of  the  work, 
such  payment  to  be  made  in  the  manner  hereinafter  prescribed ;  provided,  how- 
ever, that  if  (before  the  actual  cost  of  work  performed  hereunder  aggregates 
$4,000,000)  such  work  is  stopped  pursuant  to  the  written  instructions  from 
the  agent  or  the  United  States  of  America,  the  contractor's  fee  hereunder  shall 
ba  determined  in  accordance  with  the  following  schedule :  " 

Then  follows  a  schedule  beginning  with  $100,000,  a  fee  of  ten  percent. 

And  under  that,  if  the  cost  of  the  work  is  over  $535,714.29  and  under 
$4,000,000  a  fee  of  seven  percent  of  such  cost,  limited,  however,  to  a  maximum 
fee  in  any  such  event  of  $200,000. 

It  was  specifically  provided  in  the  contract  that  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Com- 
pany should  not  sublet  any  of  the  work  assigned  to  them.  In  other  words,  the 
du  Pont  Engineering  Company  took  the  position  that  it  did  not  want  to  let  a 
subcontract  at  Old  Hickory,  and  then  have  the  subcontractor  turn  around  and 
sublet  part  of  his  work  and  pile  fees  on  top  of  fees,  so  that  it  was  dis- 

330  tinctly  understood  with  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company  that  when  we 
gave  them  work  to  perform  they  were  to  perform  it  and  not  sublet  it. 

And  that  was  carried  out. 

When  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  entered  into  the  new  contract  of 
March  23,  1918,  with  the  Government,  it  then  became  necessary  to  enter  into 
a  new  contract  with  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company,  for  the  reason  that  under 
the  first  contract  between  the  Government  and  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Com- 
pany the  latter  acted  as  agent  for  the  United  States.  Under  the  new  contract 
of  March  23,  1918,  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  ceased  to  act  as  agent 
for  the  United  States  and  acted  as  an  ordinary  contractor. 

The  first  ctmtract  with  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company,  having  been  entered 
into  by  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  as  agent  for  the  United  States,  it 
then  became  necessary  to  make  a  new  contract  eliminating  the  agency  feature 
so  far  iis  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  was  concerned. 

The  first  contract  with  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company  provided  that  they 
should  do  subcontract  work  within  the  plant  site.     When  the  new  contract  of 


3480  MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 

March  23,  1918,  was  entered  into  with  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company  that  con- 
tract provided  for  work  within  and  beyond  the  plant  site.  That  was  necessary 
for  this  reason.  When  the  Old  Hickory  plant  was  located  at  Jacksonville, 
Tennessee,  the  plant  location  was  approximately  seven  and  one-half  miles  from 
the  nearest  railroad,  so  that  a  spur-line  railroad  had  to  be  constructed  from 
the  junction  point  of  the  Tennessee  Central  and  the  N.  C.  &  St.  K  at  Storm 
River  Junction,  Tennessee,  to  the  plant  site.     Mr.  Jackling  had  entered 

331  into  a  contract  with  the  N.  C.  «&  St.  L.  Railroad  to  do  that  work  at  cost 
plus  ten  percent.     And  the  N.  C.  &  St.  L.  had  in  turn  subcontracted  it 

to  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company  for  cost  plus  ten  percent. 

Now.  do  not  misunderstand  me.  That  was  not  a  total  of  twenty  percent 
fees.  Tlie  N.  C.  &  St.  L.  Railroad  sublet  the  work  to  Mason  &  Hanger  Com- 
pany and  paid  them  ten  percent,  but  then  the  N.  C.  &  St.  L.  Railroad  did  not 
get  an  additional  ten  percent.     The  Government  was  only  to  pay  ten  percent. 

After  that  contract  had  been  entered  into,  the  question  then  arose  as  to  when 
the  railroad  was  going  to  be  completed,  because  it  was  absolutely  essential  to 
have  the  railroad  completed  at  the  earliest  possible  date  in  order  to  get 
materials  into  the  plant  site.  The  N.  C.  &  St.  L.  Railroad  said  that  it  would 
take  them  somewhere  between  two  arid  three  months  to  build  the  spur-line 
railroad  into  the  plant.  The  i-epresentatives  of  the  du  Font  Engineering 
Company  took  the  iwsition  that  the  railroad  would  have  to  be  built  within  a- 
shorter  period.  And  by  agreement  with  Mr.  Jackling  the  contract  with  the 
N.  C.  &  St.  L.  was  cancelled,  and  also  their  contract  with  Mason  &  Hanger 
Company,  and  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  induced  the  Mason  &  Hanger 
Company  to  take  over,  under  its  contract,  the  work  of  constructing  the  spur- 
line  railroad  into  the  plant,  and  also  the  switching  yards  on  the  plant  site. 

Now,  at  the  time  that  was  done  some  work  had  been  performed  in  connection 

with  the  spur-line   road.     First,   a   single-track  line   was  run  into   the  plant, 

and  later  a  double-track  line  was  built.     And  it  was  agreed  with  the  Mason 

&    Hanger    Company    that    tliey    should    build    this    spur-line    railroad 

332  not  at  cost  plus  ten  percent,  but  at  cost  plus  five  percent  under  their 
contract  which  they  had  with  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company.     And 

when  the  new  contract  of  Mnrch  23,  1918.  was  entered  into  with  the  Mn.son 
&  Hanger  Company,  the  provision  as  to  fee  which  appeared  in  the  contract  of 
February  6,  1918,  with  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company,  was  copied  word  for 
word  in  the  new  contract  of  March  23,  1918,  with  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company. 

We  are  asked  why,  in  the  face  of  a  War  Department  regulation,  we  paid  more 
than  a  $250,000  fee  to  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company.  I  have  never  heard 
of  a  War  Department  regulation  fixing  a  fee  of  $250,000.  I  do  know  that 
the  construction  division  of  the  War  Department  had  a  form  of  contract  wliere 
they  did  have  a  limitation  on  the  total  amount  of  fees  to  be  paid  to  the  prime 
contractor  and  a  certain  percentage  to  be  paid  to  subcontractors.  The  form 
of  construction  division  contract  that  was  gotten  out  the  latter  part  of  1917, 
as  I  recall  it,  provided  for  a  fee  of  five  percent  to  subcontractors,  in  addition 
to  the  fee  to  be  paid  to  the  prime  contractor. 

Mr.  Cardnxtff.  But,  Mr.  Gregg,  it  called  for  a  maximum  of  $250,000. 

Mr.  Gregg.  To  the  prime  contractor,  but  there  was  no  maximum  to  the  sub- 
contractor. 

The  Chairman  (Assistant  Secretary  Davis).  Were  your  various  contracts 
with  the  Mason  &  Hanger  people  approved  by  the  War  Department  represen- 
tatives? 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  am  coming  to  that  right  now,  Mr.  Secretary.     When  we 

333  made  the  new  contract  with  the  United  States  for  that  plant,  the  con^ 
tract  contained  this  provision  with  respect  to  siibcontractors : 

"  Whenever  it  is  inexpedient  for  any  portion  of  the  construction  work  to  be 
performed  by  the  contractor,  it  may,  in  its  discretion,  sublet  such  portion  of 
the  work,  upon  the  most  advantageous  terms  obtainable,  consistent  with  the 
best  interests  of  the  United  States." 

That  contract  authorized  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  to  do  all  things 
necessary  or  convenient  in  and  about  the  construction  of  the  plant,  including" 
the  purchase  and  procurement  of  all  materials  and  labor  necessary  therefor, 
except  that  the  United  States  should  furnish  the  platinum  required  in  connec- 
tion with  operations.     And  it  further  provided  that — 

"The  United  States  shall  roimbur.se  the  contractor  for  all  costs  and  expenses 
of  every  character  and  description,  incurred  or  made  in  connection  with  the 
construction  and  equipment  of  the  plant,  or  any  part  thereof,  including  thB 
pro  rata  share  properly  attributable  to  the  construction  work  under  this  con- 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY  3481 

tract  (a)  of  the  expense  of  maintaining  the  contractor's  offices  at  Wihniugton, 
Delaware,  or  elsewhere,  and  (b)   of  the  salaries  anil  traveling  expenses  of  all 
officials  and  employees  of  the  contractor  and  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  & 
Company." 
And  further — 

"  In  order  that  the  work  of  construction  may  proceed  with  the  utmost  prompt- 
ness and  dispatch,  the  contractor  shall,  from  time  to  time,  make  the  expendi- 
tures and  pay  the  costs  aforesaid,  and  the  United  States,  upon  presenta- 
334      tion  of  satisfactory  evidence  of  such  expenditures  and  payments,  shall 
promptly  reimburse  the  contractor  therefor." 
******* 

Akt.  IX.  "  The  contractor  shall  keep  complete  records  as  to  all  con.struction 
and  operating  expenses,  all  of  which  records  shall  at  all  times  be  open  to 
the  inspection  of  the  United  States  or  .its  duly  authorized  representatives.  The 
United  States  may  examine  all  work  as  it  progresses  and  shall  audit  all  ac- 
counts, but  in  such  a  manner  as  not  to  interfere  with  the  conti'actor  proceed- 
ing with  the  construction  and  operation  in  any  manner  and  by  any  means 
that  in  its  judgment  will  best  produce  the  desired  results  under  this  contract." 

Those  were  the  broad  provisions  of  the  new  contract  between  the  du  Pont 
Engineering  Company  and  the  United  States. 

And  coming  to  your  question,  Mr.  Secretary,  with  respect  to  the  approval 
of  the  Mason  &  Hanger  contracts.  The  first  Mason  &  Hanger  contract  was 
approved  by  Mr.  Jackling,  as  the  special  director  and  representative  of  the 
Secretary  of  War.  The  second  contract,  where  we  follow  the  same  line  of 
fees  to  be  paid  as  was  provided  jn  the  first  contract — the  second  contract  was 
not  approved  by  a  representative  of  the  Government  for  the  reason  tnat  under 
the  new  contract  that  we  made  with  the  United  States  the  du  Pont  Engi- 
neering Company  was  not  required  to  secure  the  approval  of  a  Government 
representative  for  the  reason  that  under  the  new  contract  the  Government 
authorized  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  to  go  ahead  and  build  the  plant 
and  get  it  constructed  in  order  that  it  might  be  constructed  at  the  earUest 

335  possible  date  and  brought  into  operation. 

The  representatives  of  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  in  deter- 
mining upon  this  fee  determined  that  five  percent  was  a  reasonable  fee  to  be 
paid  to  Mason  &  Hanger  for  the  work  that  would  be  given  them  to  perform 
at  Old  Hickory.  At  that  time  the  Government,  notwithstanding  the  construc- 
tion division  form  of  contract,  was  paying  more  than  five  percent  on  a  number 
of  its  construction  projects,  and  our  people  determined  that  five  percent — if 
they  did  more  than  $4,000,000  worth  of  work,  that  then  five  percent  was  a  fair 
and  just  fee  to  pay  for  the  total  amount  of  work  given  them  to  perform.  And 
they  did  between  21  and  22  million  dollars  worth  of  work,  and  they  were  paid 
five  percent  on  the  $21,000,000. 

I  might  state  that  all  overhead  expenses  of  the  Mason  &;  Hanger  Company 
at  its  home  office  or  any  expenses  incurred  by  that  company  when  they  were 
not  engaged  in  this  work  at  Old  Hickory  were  not  to  be  charged  against  this 
contract,  and  such  expenses  were  not  charged  against  the  contract. 

Mr.  Cabndtjff.  Mr.  Gregg,  there  is  a  question  I  would  like  to  ask  you,  the 
answer  to  which  I  do  not  know.  It  has  been  charged  that  Mason  &  Hanger 
got  ten  percent  on  freight. 

Mr.  Gregg.  Ten  percent? 

Mr.  Cx\RNDUrF.  Five  percent  on  freight.  With  the  vouchers  we  have  avail- 
able we  have  not  been  able  to  ascertain,  from  a  cursory  examination,  whether 
they  received  five  percent  on  freight,  nor  do  we  know. 

Mr.  GRFX5G.  I  will  ask  Mr.  Shafer  to  answer  that. 

336  Mr.  Shafer.  I  think  I  will  read  this  and  see  if  you  can  follow  it.     I 
have  prepared  notes  on  it  [reading]  : 

"Was  Mason  &  Hanger  paid  five  percent  on  this  freight? 

"  Under  the  terms  of  the  contract  entered  into  between  the  du  Pont  Engineer- 
ing Company  and  Mason  &  Hanger,  Mason  &  Hanger  were  entitled  to  receive 
five  percent  on  the  freight  paid  for  such  materials  as  were  purchased  and 
used  by  them  in  connection  with  the  "work  performed  for  the  du  Pont  Engineer- 
ing Company  at  the  Old  Hickory  powder  plant.  However,  a  large  quantity 
of  material  consigned  to  Mason  &  Hanger  was  delivered  to  the  du  Pont  Engi- 
neering Company  at  Old  Hickory  plant,  and  in  such  instances,  where  any  ship- 
ments were  accepted  directly  by  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  the  freight 
charges  were  included  in  drafts  drawn  by  the  railroad  company  for  freight 


3482  MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 

charges  to  the  du  Pout  Engineering  Company,  and  were  thus  paid  by  the  du 
Pont  Engineering  Company  direct.  In  order  to  save  accounting  work  Mason 
&  Hanger  did  not  insist  upon  receiving  a  commission  upon  freight  paid  by  the 
du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  as  described  above,  and  consequently  received 
commission  only  on  such  freight  as  was  paid  directly  by  themselves  and  in- 
cluded in  their  invoices  to  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company." 

Mr.  Caknduff.  That  answers  it. 

Mr.  Camekon.  No;  that  does  not  answer  it. 

Mr.  Andeijson.  Mr.  Gregg,  have  you  finished  discussing  the  Mason  &  Hanger 
juatter? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Well,  I  might  say  this,  Colonel  Anderson,  that  our  reason  for 
asking  the  Secretary  of  War  to  send  them  over  to  the  Attorney  General 

337  for  an  opinion  was  this :  We  were  getting  so  many  different  views  about 
the  Old  Hickory  contract  itself,  that  is,  the  contract  between  the  du  Pont 

Engineering  Company  and  the  Government,  and  also  the  Mason  &  Hanger  sub- 
contracts, that  I  felt  that  if  I  could  get  it  over  to  the  Department  of  Justice, 
in  view  of  my  previous  experience,  was  so  that  we  might  get  an  opinion  stating 
just  what  we  had  the  right  to  do  and  what  we  did  not  have  the  right  to  do 
under  our  contract  with  the  Government,  and  also  under  the  subcontracts  that 
we  had  made  with  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company,  because  I  felt  that  the  deci- 
sion of  Mr.  Wainwright,  with  all  due  respect  to  Mr.  Wainwright,  was  a  purely 
arbitrary  decision,  and  Avas  not  based  on  facts,  the  law  or  the  contracts. 

Mr.  Ande:;son.  Have  you  gotten  your  answer  to  the  question  on  freight 
charges,  Mr.  CarndufC? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  The  answer  is  that  five  percent  was  paid  on  the  freight  paid 
by  Mason  «&  Hanger,  but  not  on  the  freight  paid  by  du  Pont  on  consignments 
direct  to  the  plant.  The  ratio,  the  proportion  of  the  freight  on  which  com- 
mission was  paid  or  was  not  paid  could  only  be  determined  by  an  audit  of  all 
the  freight  charges. 

Mr.  Andeirson.  Yes.  Well,  we  have  got  the  principle  anyhow.  Now  is  there 
anything  else  in  connection  with  Mason  &  Hanger?  You  are  about  through 
with  them,  aren't  you? 

Mr.  Gregg.  That  is  all  I  have  to  say  in  connection  with  Mason  &  Hanger.     If 

there  is  still  any  doubt  in  the  minds  of  the  members  of  the  Board  with  respect 

to  the  Mason  &  Planger  matter  and  how  it  was  handled,  I  should  appre- 

338  ciate  it  very  much  if  the  members  could  take  the  time  to  read  my  brief 
that  I  field  with  the  Secretary  of  War,  because  I  tried  to  go  into  the 

matter  quite  fully  there  and  discuss  all  angles  of  it. 

I  might  say  here  that  just  as  soon  as  either  of  the  two  contracts  was  entered 
into  with  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company,  the  Government  had  those  contracts. 
They  got  the  contract  of  March  23  as  soon  as  it  was  executed,  because  the 
Government  had  to  reimburse  us  for  moneys  that  we  expended  to  Mason  & 
Hanger,  and  they  made  reimbursements  under  those  contracts  up  until  about 
the  time  the  armistice  was  signed,  for  approximately  $18,000,000 ;  the  Govern- 
ment had  reimbursed  us  under  those  contracts  for  approximately  $18,000,000 
of  the  total  of  $21,000,000  expended  by  Mason  &  Hanger.  Never  said  a  word 
about  it.  And  that  fee  was  never  questioned  by  any  Government  representative 
until  the  spring  of  1920,  when  the  auditors  for  the  War  Department  at  Phila- 
delphia first  raised  the  question,  and  then  it  was  appealed  to  Washington,  and  a 
decision  was  rendered  to  the  effect  that  the  Government  was  obligated  to 
reimburse  us  for  the  full  amount  of  the  fee.  By  the  way.  Major  Farr  wrote 
that  opinion.     And  then  the  auditors  went  ahead  and  passed  the  vouchers. 

Then  at  a  hearing  before  Mr.  Wainwright,  as  I  recall  it  in  April  1022,  wasn't 
it? 

Mr.  Shafer.  Yes. 

Mr.  Gregg.  In  April  1922  someone  raised  the  question  of  the  Mason  &  Planger 

fee  again,  and  the  Assistant  Secretary  said  he  would  consider  it,  with  the  result 

that  he  finally  disallowed  $179,000,  after  the  receipt  of  an  opinion  from 

339  the  Acting  Judge  Advocate  General  to  the  effect  that  the  Government  was 
obligated  to  reimburse  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  for  the  full 

amount  of  the  fee  paid  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company,  and  it  was  then  that 
I  asked  Mr.  Weeks  to  send  it  to  the  Department  of  Justice. 

I  think  that  is  all  now  on  that  Mason  &  Hanger  matter. 

Mr.  ANDiaisoN.  Now,  Mr.  Chairman,  if  that  concludes  the  discussion  on  the 
Mason  &  Hanger  contract  I  suggest  that  we  take  an  adjournment  until  after 
limeheon. 

The  Chairman  (Assistant  Secretary  Davis).  It  is  ten  minutes  past  one,  now. 
What  time  do  you  want  to  meet? 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3483 

Mr.  ANDiaxsoN.  I  would  say  three  o'clock. 

General  Williams.  There  is  no  use  of  iny  being  here  anyway. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  think  you  should  come  back  if  you  can  be  here.  I  was  to 
meet  some  Senators  at  2  o'clock,  and  I  would  suggest  that  we  adjourn  to 
3  o'clock,  and  then,  so  far  as  I  am  concerned,  I  am  willing  to  sit  here  until  we 
conclude  the  hearing. 

Mr.  Gregg.  It  will  not  take  so  very  long,  I  don't  think. 

The  Chairman.  If  we  can  start  in  at  three  o'clock,  unless  there  are  too 
many  questions  asked,  we  can  easily  finish  this  this  afternoon. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Well,  if  you  can  run  through  those  points  there,  Mr.  Gregg, 
and  tlien  if  there  is  any  further  discussion  we  can  have  it  here,  which  will 
give  us  the  benefit  of  any  views  on  these  questions  which  might  elaborate  upon 
and  throw  light  upon  them  when  we  come  to  consider  them. 

The  Chairman.  Very  well,   then  we  will  adjourn   until  3  o'clock. 

(Thereupon,  at  1:10  p.m.,  a  recess  was  taken  until  3  p.m.  the  same  day, 
December  5,  1923.) 

340  after  recess 

The  hearing  was  resumed  at  3  o'clock  p.m.,  December  5,  1923,  pursuant  to 
recess. 

The  Chairman.  We  might  start  and  go  ahead  now.  Colonel  Anderson  will 
be  here  shortly. 

Mr.  Gregg.  The  next  question  on  the  list  of  inquiries  [reading]  : 

"  2.  Bonuses  paid  to  employees. — Question  1.  Will  contractor  furnish  a  com- 
plete statement  of  all  bonuses  paid  to  employees  for  any  cause? 

"Answer.  All  of  the  contracts  between  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  and 
the  United  States,  for  the  construction  of  Government  plants,  contained  pro- 
visions with  respect  to  the  payment  of  extra  compensation  for  materials  or 
services,  the  said  provisions  being  as  follows : 

"  '  In  order  that  the  contractor  may  expedite  the  work  of  construction,  it 
may  in  its  disci'etion,  from  time  to  time,  pay  extra  compensation  for  materials 
or  services,  subject,  however,  to  the  approval  of  the  contracting  officer,  which 
extra  compensation  shall  be  charged  to  the  cost  of  construction.'  " 

Colonel  Hull.  I  would  like  to  have  you  read  that  question  again,  Mr.  Gregg. 

(Thereupon  Mr.  Gregg  repeated  the  last  question  read.) 

Colonel  HL^J..  That  includes  current  bonuses  and  the  going  away  bonuses? 
Mr.  Carnduff.  The  A  and  B  bonuses,  also.     There  was  a  stock  bonus. 

341  Mr.  Gregg.  I  do  not  interpret  that  to  mean  the  payments  that  were 
made  in  lieu  of  a  discharge,  because  we  never  describe  those  as  bonuses. 

It  was  an  exti'a  month's  salary  in  lieu  of  notice  of  discharge.  If  that  is  desired 
here  we  can  furnish  that.     It  is  quite  a  job,  but  we  can  furnish  it. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  think  we  will  go  in  afterwards  and  get  that  up,  Mr.  Gregg. 

Mr.  Shafer.  We  have  it. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Yes. 

Mr.  Shafer.  But  we  haven't  it  here. 

Mr.  Carndui'f.  I  think  you  showed  it  to  us  at  Wilmington. 

Colonel  IILT.L.  I  just  wanted  to  know  what  particular  bonus  you  had  in  mind. 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  interpreted  it  to  mean 

Mr.  Carnduff.  The  bonus 

Mr.  Gregg.  Well,  the  bonus,  or  the  cash  bonus  that  was  paid  by  the  du  Pont 
Engineering  Company? 

]Mr.  Carnduff.  Yes. 

Mr.  Gregg.  The  first  contract  for  the  construction  and  operation  of  Old 
Hickory  powder  plant,  where  we  acted  as  agent  for  tlie  Government,  or  were 
to  act  as  agent  for  the  Government,  and  wherein  we  were  to  derive  a  com- 
pensation of  $2,000,000  on  account  of  construction,  contained  this  provision : 

"  In  order  that  the  construction  manager  " — meaning  the  du  Pont  Engineer- 
ing Company — "  may  be  enabled  to  secure  the  utmost  possible  expedition  on 
such  work  *  *  *  it  may  in  its  discretion,  but  subject  to  the  approval 
342  of  the  special  director  from  time  to  time  award  reasonalde  cash  bonuses 
to  employees  chargeal)le  to  such  construction,  and  such  bonuses  shall  be 
included  as  a  prc»per  item  of  cost  in  the  determination  of  the  construction 
manager's  compensation  for  the  construction  aforesaid." 

AVhen  we  made  the  new  contract  with  the  Government,  or  the  contract  of 

March  23,   1918,   in    drawing   up   that   contract   Colonel   McRoberts,   who  was 

then   Chief  of  the   Procurement   Division   of   the   Ordnance   Department,   did 

not  like  the  sound  of  the  word  "  bonus  ",  and  suggested  that  instead  of  the 

8.S87G — 35 — PT  14 21 


3484  ''   MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

words  "  bonus  "  we  use  the  words  "  extra  compensation."  The  whole  situation 
being  explained  to  him,  as  it  was  explained  to  Mr.  Jackling  at  the  time  the 
first  contract  was  entered  into,  as  to  why  we  wanted  that  provision  in  the 
contracts. 

Tlien  when  we  came  to  the  new  contract  it  read  as  I  liave  just  stated. 

(Continuing  reading  answer  to  question  1  under  "Bonuses  paid  to  em- 
ployees " : ) 

"  In  INIarch  1921,  Major  Farr,  then  an  attorney  on  the  War  Department 
Claims  Board,  rendered  an  opinion  to  the  effect  that  the  extra  compensation 
paid  by  the  contractor  to  its  employees  should  not  be  allowed.  Thereupon  the 
contractor  took  an  appeal  from  Major  Farr's  decision,  and  filed  a  brief  in 
support  of  its  view  that  the  extra  compensation  the  contractor  liad  paid  to 
certain  of  its  employees  was  allowable.  A  copy  of  the  contractor's  brief  is 
herewith  submitted,  marked  exhibit  8,  and  sets  forth  the  reasons  for  paying 
the    extra    compensation    and    the    contractor's    positi')n    with    respect 

343  thereto.     On  November  19.  1921,  Colonel  H.  INI.  Morrow,  vice  chairman 
of  the  War  Department  Claims  Board,  overruled  Major  Farr's  opinion, 

and  held  that  the  extra  compensation  paid  by  the  contractor  to  certain  of 
its  employees  should  be  allowed.  It  may  be  here  stated  that  the  contractor 
complied  fully  with  the  provisions  of  its  contracts  with  the  United  States 
before  paying  tlie  extra  compensation,  as  is  shown  in  its  brief  filed  v.'ith  the 
War  Department  Claims  Board  and  attached  hereto,  marked  '  Exhibit  8.' 

"A  statement  showing  the  totsil  extra  compensation  paid  by  the  contractor 
on  account  of  construction  of  Government  plants  is  hereto  attached,  marked 
'  Exhibit  9.' 

"A  statement  giving  the  names  of  the  contractor's  employees,  the  positions 
occupied  by  them,  their  location,  and  the  amount  of  extra  compensation  paid 
to  each,  is  hereto  attached,  marked  '  Exhibit  10.' 

"A  statement  listing  the  names  and  monthly  salaries  of  the  contractor's  em- 
ployees who  were  paid  extra  compensation  is  hereto  attached,  marked  '  Ex- 
hibit 11.'" 

Now,  this  brief  that  I  liave  attached  here  as  an  exhibit  is  the  same  brief, 
or  a  copy  of  the  brief  that  I  filed  when  I  took  an  appeal  from  Major  Farr's 
decision  to  the  vice  chairman  of  the  War  Department  Claims  Board. 

Mr.  Haskell.  Mr.  Gregg,  it  might  help  the  members  of  the  Board  to  under- 
stand that  it  has  been  the  custom  in  the  du  Pont  Company  over  a  good  many 
years  to  pay  their  principal  men  what  you  might  term  a  minimum  salary,  and 
then  adjust  that  with  an  extra  compensation,  and  the  men  who  were  put 

344  in  charge  of  this  particular  construction  work   v,-ere  transferred  from 
the   du  Pont  Company's   other  plants   to   this  work   on  their  minimum 

salaries,  on  tlie  understanding  that  they  would  not  use  their  standing  for 
extra  compensation.  I  do  not  remember  what  the  manager  or  the  builder  of 
the  plant  got,  but  it  v/as  a  very  much  smaller  salary  than  you  could  have 
possibly  gotten  anybody  of  that  caliber  to  take  charge  of  that  plant,  and  it 
was  in  adjusting  that  that  these  particular  bonuses  that  he  is  talking  about 
came  out. 

General  "Williams.  Well,  the  bonus  or  the  premium  or  extra  compensation, 
or  whatever  it  may  happen  to  be  called  by  one  concern  and  another,  is  a 
common  method  of  payment  in  industry. 

IMr.  Gregg.  And  I  might  say  this,  that  the  bonuses  awarded  by  the  du  Pont 
Company  are  allowed  l\v  the  Revenue  Bureau,  in  computing  taxes,  as  extra 
compensation.  In  other  words,  they  are  allowed  as  part  of  the  compensation 
of  tlie  employee,  and  deductible  as  an  item  of  cost  of  conducting  the  business, 
and  not  in  the  nature  of  a  gift. 

General  Williams.  Yes. 

]Mr.  Haskell.  Furthermore,  the  employees  have  to  pay  income  taxes  on 
them.     They  count  as  income,  not  as  gifts. 

Mr.  Gr.Fx;G.  No ;  they  count  as  incf)me. 

General  V.'illiams.  IVIr.  Chairman,  may  I  ask  Major  Carnduff,  or  whoever 
is  conducting  the  case,  what  the  oliject  of  this  question  is? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  To  compai-e  the  du  Pont  statement  of  bonus  witli  the  state- 
ment of  bonus  furnished  the  Department  of  Justice,  to  see  if  they  agree; 
to  see  if  the  du  Ponts  have  paid  more  bonus  than  we  are  aware  of,  and 

345  to  ascertain   the  total   amount  involved  in  this  bonus,  which,  as  I  see 
now.  is  $199,000.     There  has  also  been  a  ruling  that  bonuses  are  illegal. 

Genei'al  Williams.  Is  it  a  ruling  or  a  law,  a  decision  of  a  court? 
Mr.  McLane.  a  decision  of  a  court. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY  3485 

Mr.  Gregg.  In  what  case,  Mr.  McLane? 

Mr.  McLanb.  I  cannot  give  it  to  you  now,  but  I  will  give  it  to  you  before 
1  leave. 

Colonel  Hull.  Are  you  talking  about  the  Preiss  case? 
Mr.   McLane.  Yes. 

Colonel  Hull.  That  was  the  case,  Mr.  McLane,  of  a  bonus  to  a  man — this 
was  in  the  Quartermaster  Department — under  a  contract  that  was  already  in 
existence,  and  then  they  gave  a  supplementary  contract  authorizing  the  bonus, 
and  the  War  Department  refused  to  pay  it,  and  the  man  took  it  to  the  Court 
of  Claims,  and  the  Court  of  Claims  threw  it  out,  following  the  action  of  the 
War  Department  Claims  Board,  and  is  in  no  way  comparable  to  th,is  case. 
Are  there  any  other  cases? 

]Mr.  Carnduff.  Tliere  are  other  cases  pending.  The  question  of  bonus  is 
being  tried  out  by  the  Department  of  Justice,  and  we  will  have  a  decision 
on  it. 

General  Williams.  These  appendices  give  you  the  information  that  you 
desire,   do  they? 

Mr.  Carkduff.  They  do,  and  this  is  very  valuable. 
General  Williams.  All  right,  let  us  pass  on. 
Mr.  Carnduff.  This  is  the  first  time  we  have  received  it. 
General  Williams.  Fass   on. 
34G  Colonel  Hull.  Mr.   Gregg,  were  not  those  facts  all  in  the  record  of 

the  War  Department? 
Mr.    Grkgg.  Absdlutely. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Were  the  statements  that  gave  in  the  records  of  the  War 
Department? 

Mr.  Gkegg.  You  mean  bonuses  paid  by  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company 
on  account  of  the  operation  of  the  plants? 

Mr.  Carndoff.  Yes,  sir;  were  they  in  the  report? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Were  the  operation  bonuses  submitted  to  the  Government  repre- 
sentatives at  Wilmington?     Did  I  understand  you  to  say  that  they  were? 

Mr.  Shafer..  They  had  access  to  them,  Mr.  Gregg.  I  don't  remember  whether 
they  were  given  to  them  or  not;  I  don't  remember  that  distinctly,  but  I  know 
tiey  had  full  access  to  them ;  that  is,  there  was  full  access  given  to  the 
Government  representatives  for  any  comparison  that  they  wanted  at  the  time, 
and  I  do  know  that  this  list  of  cash  bonuses  that  we  have  here  was  submitted 
to  the  War  Department  before  it  was  paid,  and  was  thoroughly  checked  by 
the  Government  auditors  on  the  job  before  we  received  a  letter  telling  us  to 
go  ahead  and  pay  it.  They  made  all  the  comparisons  that  they  desired  to 
make  at  the  time.  Attached  to  this  schedule  is  a  percentage  comparison  which 
was  furnished  at  that  time  to  the  Government  auditors  in  order  that  they 
could  decide  whether  or  not  our  bonuses  were  in  excess  of  du  Pont  bonuses. 
That  exhibit  shows  that  the  extra  compensation  that  we  figured  was  12.82 
percent. 

Mr.  Gregg.  You  say  "  we."    Who  do  you  mean,  Mr.  Shafer? 
347  Mr.  Shafer.  The  du  Pont  Engineering  Company.     12.82  percent  of  the 

total  salaries,  whereas  the  B  bonuses  paid  by  the  du  Pont  Company 
during  the  year  1918  ran  17.98  percent.  Now,  that  information  was  in  the  hands 
of  the  United  States  Government  at  the  same  time  that  they  checked  this 
original  bonus  list  before  approving  it  for  payment. 

General  Williams.  Well,  did  your  brief,  Mr.  Gregg,  give  sufficient  informa- 
tion upon  which  to  determine  the  legality  of  the  bonus? 

Mr.  Gregg.  That  is  just  the  point  I  went  into.  I  did  not  quote  any  court 
decisions,  because  on  th's  particular  point,  as  I  recall  it  now,  I  could  not 
find  any  decision.  It  was  a  matter  of  how  to  pay  it,  and  I  knew  of  no  law, 
nor  do  I  know  of  any  law  today  prohibiting  the  payment  of  this  extra  com- 
pensation. It  is  a  matter  of  contract  between  the  Government  and  the  con- 
tractor. 

General  Williams.  When  was  your  brief  submitted? 

Mr.  Gregg.  It  was  submitted — there  is  no  date  on  that,  but  it  was  submitted 
prior  to  Colonel  Morrow's  decision,  which  was  on  November  19,  1921. 

General  Williams.  So  that  the  question  as  to  the  legality  of  the  bonus  has 
been  before  the  Government  authorities  for  more  than  two  years? 
Mr.  Gregg.  That  is  right. 
General  Williams.  And  is  not  yet  decided? 


3486  MUNITIOiSrS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Gregg.  Yes,  sir ;  it  was  decided  by  tlie  War  Department.  Colonel  Morrow 
allowed   it. 

Mr.  McLane.  What  class  of  people  were  given  a  bonus? 
Mr.  Gregg.  We  gave  you  a  full  list  of  them. 
Mr.  McLane.  What  was  the.ir  status? 

348  Mr.  Gregg.  We  have  given  you  a  list  of  them  in  these  exhibits,  giving 
the  position  they  occupied  at  the  plants,  the  salaries  they  received. 

Mr.  McLane.  Were  they  employees  or  former  employees  of  the  du  Pont 
0:»mpany? 

Mr.  Shafbb.  a  great  many  of  them  were. 

Mr.  Gregg.  Most  of  them  were. 

Ml".  Shaker.  Yes ;  most  of  them  were.     All  of  the  important  ones  were. 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  should  like  to  point  this  out,  that  the  Government,  when  it 
made  these  contracts  providing  for  the  extra  compensation,  fully  understood 
why  that  provision  wa.s  being  included  in  the  contracts.  As  I  state  in  this 
brief,  in  the  fall  of  1917  conferences  were  held  between  representatives  of 
E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  and  representatives  of  the  Government 
concerning  the  construction  and  operation  of  smokeless-powder  plants  by  the  du 
Pont  Company  for  the  Government,  and  proposals  were  submitted  to  the  Govern- 
ment by  the  company. 

On  November  2,  1917,  the  president  of  the  du  Pont  Company  addressed  a 
communication  to  General  Crozier,  then  Chief  of  Ordnance,  which  stated 
in  a  general  way  what  expenses  were  chargeable  against  a  15-percent  commis- 
sion on  a  proposed  contract  for  the  construction  of  powder  plants  by  the 
Government.  That  was  just  prior  to  or  about  the  time  that  we  were  awarded 
or  given  the  order  for  the  nitro  plant  by  General  Crozier,  which  was  later 
canceled  by  the  Secretary  of  War,  and  General  Crozier  had  asked  us  what 
expenses  we  were  going  to  bear   out   of  this   15   percent,   and   in   this 

349  letter  Mr.  P.  S.  du  Pont  gave  him  a  list  of  the  expenses  that  we  intended 
to  bear  out  of  the  15  percent  if  we  were  awarded  that  contract,  and  in 

the  list,  among  other  things,  Mr.  du  Pont  stated  in  this  letter  to  General 
Crozier : 

"  I  am  also  including  several  more  direct  expenses,  such  as  extra  compensa- 
tion to  employees  for  rapid  and  satisfactory  conduct  of  the  work.  This  com- 
pensation cannot  be  determined  until  the  plan  is  wellnigh  completed.  An  extra 
compensation  plan  has  been  carried  out  with  good  effect  by  our  company  for 
many  years.  We  are  satisfied  that  in  the  present  emergency  it  is  not  only 
inadvisable,  but  really  dangerous  to  attempt  to  withdraw  it.  The  actual  cost 
of  this  item  in  building  similar  plants  lor  our  own  company  amounted  to 
$1,800,000.  However,  this  is  a  small  percentage  of  the  total  salary  and  pay 
roll  involved  in  the  work." 

Now  then,  on  November  19,  1917,  General  Crozier  addressed  a  communica- 
tion to  the  du  Pont  Company,  and  this  was  the  order  that  was  later  on  can- 
celed by  the  Secretary  of  War.     And  that  order  provided  : 

"  There  shall  be  included  as  a  part  of  the  construction  cost  and  paid  to  you 
a  sum  equal  to  one  and  two-thirds  percent  of  all  disbursements  for  construction, 
exclusive  of  the  amount  provided  by  subdivision  (a)  and  (b)  of  tliis  paragraph, 
this  fund  to  be  disbursed  *  *  *  as  special  compensation  to  the  employees 
engaged  in  the  construction  of  the  plant,  and  for  the  purpnse  of  securing  the 
completion  and  final  operation  of  the  plant  at  the  earliest  possible  date." 

350  Now  that  order  provided  for  one  and  two-thirds  percent  of  the  total 
cost  of  the  construction  of  the  plant. 

Then  when  we  came  to  make  the  contract  with  Mr.  Jackling  on  January 
29,  1918,  and  in  view  of  the  fact  that  we  were  going  to  do  the  work  there 
for  three  percent  on  the  cost  of  construction,  we  insisted  that  the  Government 
v.ould  have  to  bear  this  extra  compensation  to  our  employees,  which  was 
agreed  to.  And  there  is  no  way  of  paying  that  extra  compensation,  keeping 
in  mind  the  reason  for  which  it  is  paid,  in  other  words,  this  extra  compensation 
is  paid  as  an  inducement  to  employees  to  put  forth  their  best  efforts. 

Now  then  let  us  assume  tliat  in  starting  the  work  a  man  is  getting  a  salary 
of  $10,000  a  year.  Say  he  is  the  chief  engineer  at  the  plant.  And  at  the  end, 
when  it  is  all  over,  he  is  paid  an  extra  compensation  of  $15,000,  or  a  total  of 
$25,000.  If  you  start  out  by  increasing  his  salary  to  $25,000  before  the  work 
is  performed,  the  incentive  to  put  forth  the  best  efforts  is  removed,  whereas 
if  you  wait  until  the  work  is  completed,  he  has  that  ahead  of  him  all  the  time, 
and  be  knows  that  if  he  does  not  put  forth  his  best  efforts  he  is  not  going  to 
get  the  extra  compensation.     So  tliat  the  only  proper  time  to  determine  the  em- 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3487 

ployees  who  are  to  receive  the  extra  compensation,  and  the  amount  they  are  to 
receive,  is  after  the  worlc  is  completed,  and  you  can  then  determine  whetlier 
they  are  entitled  to  it,  and  the  amount  they  are  entitled  to. 

General  Williams.  That,  I  believe,  is  the  principle  upon  which  every  indus- 
trial manager  proceeds. 

Mr.  Gregg.  As  far  as  I  know,  General. 

351  Now  the  next  question :  Wliiit  payments  were  made  to  employees  of 
E.  I.  du  Pout  de  Nemours  &  Company  over  and  above  salaries  and  travel- 
ing expenses? 

"  Answer :  For  a  number  of  years  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  has 
awarded  bonuses  to  its  employees  for  meritorious  services  i^erformed,  such 
bonuses  being  usually  paid  in  coumion  or  preferred  stock  of  the  company. 

"A  list  of  employees  who  were  awarded  stock  bonuses  by  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 
Nemours  &  Company  on  account  of  meritorious  services  in  connection  with  the 
operation  of  the  Old  Hickory  smokeless  powder  plant  and  Penniman  shell- 
loading  plant — both  Government  plants — is  hereto  attached,  marked  '  exliibit 
12'." 

Now  it  should  be  borne  in  mind  that  no  part  of  the  extra  compensation  or 
bonuses  awardetl  to  operating  employees  was  paid  by  the  Government.  E.  I. 
du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  paid  all  bonuses  awarded  in  connection  with 
the  operation  of  the  plant. 

General  Williams.  There  is  one  circumstance  connected  with  this  contract, 
tliat  wliile  it  has  no  legal  value,  I  admit,  still  to  me,  as  being  responsible  for 
the  production  of  powder,  it  had  a  great  deal  of  value.  The  Ordnance  Depart- 
ment prepared  and  had  ready  for  execution  a  contract  wdtli  tlie  du  Pout  Com- 
pany to  build  powder  works  in  October  of  1917.  W^e  went  to  war  on  Api-il  the 
6th  of  1917,  and  everybody  knows,  every  boy  in  the  street  knew  we  had  to 
have  powder.  Now  that  contract  was  held  up,  it  was  not  executed  for  three 
or  four  months.  Meanwhile  the  demand  for  powder  from  France  was  coming 
in  all  the  time,  and  those  wlio  were  responsible  for  tlie  production  of 

352  powder   found  themselves  in  a   very   serious  situation.     After   those  in 
authority    in    the   Government   had    stumbled    about    for    three    or    four 

months,  utterly  failed  to  take  any  efficient  steps  toward  the  production  of 
powder,  they  finally  turned  to  people  who  could  make  powder,  and  this  contract 
was  made  with  them.  It  was  not  made  until  Marcli  of  1918,  almost  a  year 
after  we  got  into  the  war,  and  expedition  was  of  the  greatest  moment.  It 
was  essential  that  powder  be  produced  as  quickly  as  possible. 

Now  to  those  of  us  who  were  responsible  for  furnishing  material  for  the 
troops  to  fight  with  in  France  that  was  a  very  serious  condition,  and  we  were 
perfectly  justified  in  using  every  means  that  we  had  at  our  command  to  furtlier 
and  to  expedite  the  production  of  powder,  and  insofar  as  I  am  concerned,  as 
being  the  one  responsible  for  making  contracts  for  this  material  at  tliat  time  T 
would  do  anytlnng,  no  matter  what  it  was,  that  I  could  possibly  stretch  my 
authority  to  do  to  produce  that  material. 

You  cannot  go  back  and  recreate  the  atmosphere  of  these  things^  and  the 
atmosphere  in  which  it  was  done  is  an  essential  part  of  it,  but  of  course  nobody 
nowadays  even  tries  to  do  it. 

Mr.  Gregg.  Now  tlie  total  bonuses  paid  by  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Com- 
pany on  account  of  construction • 

Mr.   McLane    (interposing).  Mr.   Gregg,   just  a  moment.     If   the  committee 

please,  in  view  of  the  statement  just  made  that  that  is  tlie  attitude  today, 

why  take  up  the  time  here?     If  these  errors  that  we  think  are  here,  are  pointed 

out,    if    they    come    before    you    with    the    attitude    just    expressed    by 

353  General  Williams,  we  then  have  accomplished  nothing.     I  can't  see  any 
use  in  going  on  here. 

Mr.  ANDE3JSON.  Well,  if  I  may  reply,  Mr.  Chairman — may  I? 

The  Chairman.  Yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  think  General  Williams'  statement,  if  I  may  sugge.st,  Mr. 
McLane,  is  helpful,  certainly  to  this  extent:  What  he  says  is  undoubtedly  true, 
that  the  emergency  existing  during  the  war  was  such  that  the  Government 
had  to  take  a  great  many  steps  and  employ  a  great  many  means  which  in 
time  of  peace  or  nonemergency  it  would  not  employ.  I  think  that  is  generally 
recognized,  and  speaking  for  myself  I  can  say  that  in  my  investigation  or 
consideration  of  these  cases  I  always  bear  that  fact  in  mind. 

But  there  is  one  aspect  of  the  matter,  on  the  other  hand,  that  fortunately 
or  unfortunately  is  true,  and  I  do  not  think  General  Williams  controverts  that 
in  the  least,  because  he,  in  his  opening  sentence,  recognized  that  fact,  and  that 


3488  MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY 

is  that  while  makiug  all  clue  allowance  for  that  condition  which  we  all  recog- 
nize, and  the  importance  of  \vhich  cannot  be  overemphasized  from  a  praitical 
standpoint  in  time  of  war,  yet  in  the  last  analysis  the  authority  of  officers  of 
tl>e  Government  is  controlled  by  law,  and  the  sole  purpose  of  our  investigation 
liere,  as  I  understand  it,  Mr.  Chairman,  is  to  ascertain  whether  through  inaci 
vertence  or  otherwise  there  has  been,  not  in  the  making  of  the  contract,  or  it 
in  the  making  of  the  contract,  yes,  more  particularly  in  the  settlement'  of  the 
contract,  a  mistake  of  fact  or  law  by  which  tlie  Government  has  been 
prejudiced. 

354  Of  course  if  there  were  actual  fraud  demonstrated,  why  that  wovild 
remove  all  question  of  that  kind.     But  the  present  inquiry  that  we  are 

makiug  here  is  dealing  more  with  the  items  for  consideration,  as  I  understand, 
of  the  legal  aspect  of  those  various  elements  of  settlement. 

Now,  I  think  that  for  myself,  in  what  General  Williams  has  said  he  has 
reminded  me  of  what  I  try  to  keep  in  mind  always,  that  that  atmosphere  is 
one  of  the  tilings  tliat  must  be  kept  constantly  surrounding  us  as  far  as  we 
can,  but  in  the  last  analysis  atmospliere  cannot  take  tlie  place  of  law,  and 
he,  I  think,  takes  that  view,  as  I  understood  in  his  opening  statement  he 
)aid :  "  It  might  not  have  any  legal  effect,  but  it  must  be  borne  in  mind  on 
the  merits,  as  distinguished  from  the  strict  legality  of  these  contracts."  Do 
I  correctly  interpret  you.  General? 

General  Williams.  Why,  yes,  of  course ;  if  there  was  anything  like  graft 
going  on,  why,  we  all  want  to  know  about  it,  we  all  want  to  take  the  proper 
steps  to  see  that  it  is  properly  ferreted  out  and  punished  if  necessary,  and  I 
have  not  tlie  slightest  doubt  the  du  Fonts  want  that  as  much  as  we  do. 

Mr.   Gbegg.  Absolutely. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Yes. 

Mr.  Cabnduff.  I  would  like  to  remind  you,   during  this  interruption,  of  a 

very  grave  duty  and  responsibility  devolving  upon  this  committee  at  this  time. 

In  the  answers  brought  forth  by  the  contractor  it  is  admitted  that  there  is 

on  hand  a  fund  of  $958,000  of  Government  funds  in  their  possession.     They 

also  state  that  their  charges   and   expenses  are  continuing.     I   am  in- 

355  formed    by    Mr.    Gregg    that   an    estimate   of   the    present   charges    and 
expenses  being  cliarged  against  the  Government  is  approximately  $700 

per  month,  going  on  right  now.  I  would  suggest  to  the  committee  that  if  a 
method  can  be  arrived  at  tliat  this  fund  of  $958,000  belonging  to  the  United 
States  be  returned  to  the  United  States  now,  and  this  expense  of  $700  a 
month  be  discontinued.  If  the  Board,  in  their  judgment,  can  approve  a 
meihod  for  that  being  done  now  it  will  certainly  be  well  worth  the  time  they 
have  spent  on  this  inquiry. 

The  Chairman.  This  particular  inquiry  is  to  give  the  du  Pont  Engineering 
Company  an  opportunity  to  answer  certain  questions,  and  present  their  side 
of  the  case.  I  think  we  had  better  stick  to  that  and  get  through  with  that, 
and  then  take  up  these  other  side  issues,  otherwise  we  will  never  get  through. 

General  WnxiAMS.  There  is  one  thing  I  would  like  to  say,  Mr.  Chairman. 
The  inference  from  the  gentleman's  statement  is  that  just  at  the  present  time 
it  has  become  known  that  this  balance  is  in  the  hands  of  the  du  Pont  Engi- 
neering Company,  whereas  it  has  been  common  information  ever  since  the 
Armistice. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  think  we  had  better  proceed,  Mr.  Chairman. 

General  Wilijams.  Likewise  it  has  been  known  that  the  expenses  of  the 
du  Pont  Company  are  being  charged  against  it  as  provided  in  the  contract. 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  would  like  to  make  this  brief  comment  in  connection  with  the 
extra  compensation :  I  sometimes  feel  that  there  is  a  disposition  to  go 

356  through   contracts   for   the   purpose  of   arriving  at   a  conclusion  as   to 
whether  or  not  the  contracting  oilicer  erred  in  judgment,   and  not  so 

much  as  to  whether  or  not  a  provision  of  a  contract  is  in  violation  of  law. 
All  of  the  decisions  of  the  Supreme  Court  that  I  have  ever  run  across  take 
the  view  that  the  head  of  a  department  has  authority  to  make  contracts  with 
citizens  for  materials  or  work  for  his  department,  and  that  he  is  allowed  broad 
discretion  in  doing  so.  Of  course,  the  head  of  a  department — and  we  all  know 
that — cannot  make  a  contract  that  contains  a  provision  which  is  specifically 
prohibited  by  law.  We  all  know  that.  But  the  Supreme  Court  has  said  time 
and  again  that  certain  things  must  be  left  to  the  juilgment  and  discretion  of 
the  head  of  a  department,  and  that  the  head  of  the  department,  when  he 
makes  such  a  contract,  makes  a  contract  containing  provisions  which  are  not 
prohibited  by  law,  the  Government  is  bound  by  that  contract  just  the  same  as 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3489 

a  contract  between  private  individuals.  Because  the  Supreme  Court  has  said 
repeatedly  that  when  the  Government  makes  a  contract  with  a  citizen  it  places 
itself  on  the  same  plane  as  the  citizen,  and  the  sume  rules  and  regulations  that 
apply  to  tlie  construction  and  interpretation  of  contracts  between  individuals 
also  apply  to  the  construction  and  interpretation  of  contracts  between  he 
Governmen  and  its  citizens. 

Tlie  total  amount  of  bonuses  wliich  were  paid  on  account  of  the  construction 
of  Government  plants  by  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  is  as  follows : 

Old  Hickory  powder  plant $151,  355 

Penniman   shell  loading   plant 47,  647 

Ives  TNT  plant G4S 

357  A  total  of 199,650 

Those  bonuses  were  paid  in  connection  with  a  total  construction  cost 
of  $98,411,452.31.  And  on  that  total  construction  cost  the  du  Pont  Engineering 
Company  has  been  paid  by  the  Government  a  total  profit  of  $2,  as  provided 
in  the  contracts. 

In  connection  with  the  operation  of  the  Old  Hickory  powder  plant,  and  the 
Penniman  shell-loading  plant,  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  awarded 
stock  bonuses  to  its  employees  engaged  on  operation  as  follows : 

Old  Hickory  powder  plant $167,366.72 

Penniman  shell-loading  plant 25,  827.  46 

A  total  of 193, 194. 18 

representing  the  cost  to  the  company  of  the  stock  awarded  as  bonuses  in  con- 
nection witli  the  operation  of  these  two  plants. 

While  the  total  construction  cost  in  connection  with  which  $109,650  was  paid 
as  bonuses  was  $98,411,452.31,  the  cost  of  the  bonuses  awarded  by  the  du  Pont 
Company  of  $193,194.18 — were  awarded  in  connection  with  a  total  operation 
cost  of  $31,095,961.70,  as  against  the  total  cost  of  construction  of  $98,411,452.31. 

Colonel  Hull.  Mr.  Chairman,  may  I  aslc  one  question? 

The  Chairman.  Yes. 

Colonel  Hull.  The  stock  bonuses  paid  by  the  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours 
&  Company — how  does  that  question  come  into  this  case? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Because  we  were  asked  that  question,  Colonel  Hull. 

358  Colonel  Hltll.  It  was  paid  by  the  parent  company? 

Mr.  Gregg.  It  was  paid  by  the  parent  company. 

Mr.  Andejrson.  The  operating  company. 

Colonel  Hull.  The  operating  company,  I  know,  but  did  the  Government  pay 
it  in  any  way,  shape,  or  foi-m? 

Mr.  Gregg.  No,  sir ;  no  part  of  it.     Not  a  dollar  of  it ;  not  a  cent  of  it. 

Colonel  Hull.  Did  it  enter  into  any  of  the  calculations  with  the  War  Depart- 
ment on  operations  of  the  powder  plant? 

Mr.  Shafe:r.  It  did  not,  Colonel  Hull,  and  it  would  not,  because  purely  an 
expense  of  the  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company. 

Colonel  Hull.  I  suggest  that  we  pay  no  more  attention  to  it,  then,  if  it  does 
not  enter  into  it. 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  am  through  with  it  now.  I  just  wanted  to  make  that  com- 
parison for  the  benefit  of  the  Board. 

"3.  Suhsidiarles — 

"  Question  1.  Was  it  not  the  rule  to  purchase  materials  from  du  Pont  sub- 
sidiaries?    Was  this  not  profitable  to  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company? 

"Answer.  There  was  no  rule  relating  to  the  purchase  of  materials  from  du 
Pont  subsidiaries.  Cotton  linters  and  hull  shavings  were  purchased  directly 
from  or  through  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  or  its  subsidiary,  du 
Pont  American  Industries,  Inc.  The  cost  of  .<=havings  and  linters  purchased 
for  use  at  Old  Hickory  was  approximately  $4,.580,000.  No  profit  resulted  to 
E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  or  du  Pont  American  Industries,  Inc., 
through  the  purchase  of  linters  and  shavings. 

359  "  Certain  special  machinery  and  equipment  were  purchased  by  du  Pont 
Engineering   Company   from    E.    I.    du    Pont    de   Nemours    &    Company, 

aggregating  in  value  approximately  $7,342,926.03,  under  an  arrangement  ap- 
proved by  the  contracting  officer  for  the  United  States,  v.'h!ch  provided  that 
E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  was  to  receive  a  profit  of  10%  above  cost, 
See  exhibit  14,  hereto  attached.  However,  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Com- 
pany voluntarily  waived  its  rights  to  the  10%  profit,  and  settled  with  du  Pont 


3490  MTJisriTioNS  industry 

Engineering  Company  on  a  basis  of  cost  in  which  was  included  the  amortiza- 
tion of  special  facilities,  purchased  for  producing  such  machinery  and  equip- 
ment. The  total  amount  of  profit  waived  by  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  & 
Company  iu  connectiiou  with  this  matter  was  $734,292.60,  while  the  total 
charges  for  amortizing  facilities  was  $475,338.99,  or  a  saving  to  the  United 
States  of  $258,953.61." 

Which  amount,  as  I  have  stated,  the  du  Pont  Company  waived.  And  that 
was  done  for  this  reason.  While  we  had  this  agreement  by  the  Ordnance 
Department  to  pay  us  10  percent  on  this  special  machinery,  when  we  came  to 
close  up,  in  other  words,  after  the  war,  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company 
took  the  position  that  under  the  contracts  between  the  du  Pont  Engineering 
Company  and  the  United  States  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  was  not  to 
receive  any  profit  on  account  of  construction,  and  that  therefore  E.  I.  du  Pont 
de  Nemours  &  Company  desired  to  waive  its  profit  which  it  had  a  perfect  right 
to  claim  under  its  agreement  with  the  Ordnance  Department.  In  other  words, 
the  comi)any   took  tlie  position   that   it  had   agreed  to  construct  these 

360  plants  witliout  profit,  and  it  intended  to  carry  that  out  as  far  as  it  could. 
"Automobiles  manufactured  by  the  General  Motors  Corporation  and  its 

subsidiaries  from  dealers  in  the  vicinity  of  the  several  plants  operated  by  the 
contractor.  Such  purchases,  however,  were  the  result  of  expediency  and  on 
account  of  the  fact  that  the  class  of  car  in  question  was  suitable  to  the  con- 
tractor's requirements,  and  deliveries  could  be  made  promptly. 

"  The  indirect  profits  accruing  to  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company 
through  its  stock  ownership  in  the  General  Motors  Corporation,  on  account 
of  automobiles  purchased  by  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  were  intan- 
gible and  insignificant. 

"  For  use  at  the  Old  Hickory  Powder  Plant,  54  Ford  cars  were  purchased  by 
du  Pont  Engineering  Company  from  the  Hippodrome  Motor  Company  and 
Blackwood  Tire  Company,  and  41  Chevrolet  cars " — which  is  a  General 
Motors  car — "  were  purchased  from  the  Broadway  Motor  Company,  which 
serves  to  Illustrate  that  the  contractor  did  not  show  any  preference  for  cars 
manufactured  by  companies  in  which  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company 
was  interested. 

"  The  contractor  purchased  its  principal  supply  of  paints  and  paint  ingredi- 
ents from  the  Harrison  branch  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company,^ 
although  a  con.siderable  quantity  was  bought  from  competitive  manufacturers 
and  vendors  who  dealt  in  competitive  brands.  Purchases  of  paint,  pigments, 
lead,  etc.,  were  made  from  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  on  account 
of  the  fact  that  by  reason  of  the  relationship  between  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 

361  Nemours  &  Company  and  the  contractor,  pressure  could  be  exerted  to 
insure  priority  in  deliveries,  and  paints  could  thus  be  obtained   when 

needed  without  delays.  Preference  was  not  given  to  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours 
&  Company  for  the  purpose  of  increasing  its  profits,  inasmuch  as  the  demand 
for  such  commodities  throughout  the  war  period  was  in  excess  of  the  supply, 
and  a  ready  market  was  available  for  all  the  commercial  products  then  manu- 
factured by  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  and  its  branches.  Paints 
purchased  from  the  Harrison  works  were  invoiced  to  the  contractor  at  the 
market  price.  No  profit  accrued  to  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  on 
account  of  paint  sales  to  the  contractor,  as  the  du  Pont  Company's  paint  busi- 
ness resulted  in  a  deficit  for  the  year  1918. 

"  Question  2.  Was  purchase  noncompetitive? 

"Answer.  Purchases  in  quantity,  with  the  exception  of  materials  specifically 
contracted  for  and  emergency  procurements,  were  usually  made  after  securing 
competitive  bids  with  a  view  to  obtaining  such  materials  at  the  lowest  price 
consistent  with  quality  and  the  assurance  of  delivery. 

"  Question  3.  Was  there  any  check  on  materials  or  prices  by  du  Pont? 
Explain  system. 

"Answer.  The  invoice  pries  for  materials  shipped  for  account  of  the  du  Pont 
Engineering  Company  were  checked  and  compared  with  orders  by  the  con- 
tractor's staff,  and  also  by  the  accountants  empk)yed  by  the  United  States 
working  under  the  direction  of  the  contracting  officer  of  the  War  Department. 
Materials  .received  at  the  plant  were  checked  and  verified  by  the  contractor's 
representatives  and  by  United  States  Government  resident  stores  inspec- 
tors. 

362  "The  following  plan  for  making,   checking,   and  recording  disburse- 
ments and  keeping  a  record  of  the  contractor's  business,  approved  by  the 

representatives  of  the  United  States  jn  charge  at  the  time,  was  modeled  on 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTEY  3491 

a  system  which  had  l)een  followed  by  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company 
and  found  by  exjierience  to  be  satisfactory: 

"  Certain  proficient  employees  were  appointed  to  direct  and  supervise  the 
work  of  the  several  departments.  Whenever  the  i)rocurement  of  material  or 
equipment  was  necessary,  requisitions  were  issued  by  the  departments  respon- 
sible and  forwarded  to  the  Purchasing  Agent  in  Wilmington,  unless  the  need 
was  sufHciently  urgent  to  necessitate  ordering  direct  by  telegraph  or  other- 
wise. In  cases  requisitions  were  sent  to  the  Purchasing  Agent  for  record. 
Orders  for  materials  specified  in  such  requisitions  were  issued  by  the  Pur- 
chasing Department,  and  numbered  in  series,  copies  being  sent  respectively  to 
the  vendors,  plants,  and  accounting  department,  one  being  retained  by  the  Pur- 
chasing Department  for  comparison  with  the  vendors'  invoices. 

"  Vendors  were  required  to  show  the  order  number  on  the  face  of  each  in- 
voice for  identification.  Each  invoice,  after  receipt  at  the  home  office,  was 
compared  with  the  orders  and  checked  as  to  terms,  quantity,  and  price  by  the 
Purchasing  Department,  and  then  forwarded  to  the  plant  which  issued  the 
requisition,  wliere  certification  was  made  as  to  receipt  of  material,  and  the 
approval  of  the  plant  representative  nfiixed;  and  then  returned  to  tlie  home 
office  at  Wilmington.     Vouchers  were  then  approved  by  the  Departmental 

363  Director  responsible  for  such  expenditures,  and  the  charge  distribution 
w'as  noted  thereon,  after  wliich  the  Accounting  Department  functioned, 

checking  extensions,  recording,  and  issuing  checks  in  payment  therefor. 

"  When  vouchers  had  been  audited,  recorded,  approved,  and  paid  by  repre- 
sentatives of  the  contractor,  they  were  transmitted  to  the  contracting  officer 
of  the  United  States,  who  checked  and  verified  the  expenditures  until  satisfied 
that  the  requirements  of  the  contracts  had  liecn  fulfilled.  He  th(>n  indicated 
his  approval  oii  each  voucher,  and  forwarded  all  vouchers  applicable  to  con- 
struction projects  to  the  disbursing  officer,  who  recorded  the  approved  ex- 
penditures on  public  vouchers,  and  issued  instructions  for  the  contractor's 
reimbursement. 

"While  vouchers  applicable  to  the  operating  projects  were  checked  and 
approved  in  the  manner  described  above,  the  contractor  was  reimbursed  as 
pi'ovided  by  the  several  contracts  with  respect  to  operation. 

"  4.  Cotton  Uiitcrs. 

"  Question  1.  Explain  excessive  prices  above  maximum  contract  rates. 

"Answer.  Assuming  that  question  1  refers  to  cotton  hull  shavings,  which  at 
the  time  of  purchase  were  at  a  price  in  excess  of  the  contract  limit,  the  trans- 
action is  explained  as  follows : 

"An  audit  was  made  of  the  cotton  hull  shavings  purchased  by  dn  Pont 
Engineering  Company  by  the  contracting  officer  representing  the  War  Depart- 
ment resulting  in  disallowance  by  the  contracting  oflScer,  based  on  the  state- 
ment   that    the    contractor    had    purchased    cotton    hull    shavings    at    a 

364  price    in   excess    of   the   limits   established   by    the   contract.     The   con- 
tractor then  prepared  a  statement  showing  the  purcliases  of  cotton  hull 

shavings,  exhibiting  that  the  total  amount  paid,  including  freight  to  Nash- 
ville, was  in  excess  of  the  contract  limitation  in  the  amount  of  $42,354.98, 
or  based  on  rates  in  effect  as  of  the  date  of  the  contract  between  du  Pout 
Engineering  Company  and  the  Government,  an  excess  of  $29,952.85.  See  state- 
ment hereto  attached,  marked  '  Exhibit  15.' 

"In  article  IV,  paragraph  (d)  of  the  Old  Hickory  contract,  it  is  stated: 

"  'All  materials  for  construction  or  operation  upon  which  prices  have  been 
fixed  by  the  United  States  shall  be  purcliased  liy  the  contractor  at  the  prices 
so  fixed  and  where  the  price  of  any  of  the  raw  materials  named  in  the  above 
schedule  has  not  been  fixed  by  the  Government,  they  shall  not  be  purchased 
by  the  contractor  at  prices  more  than  20  perciiit  higher  than  those  specified 
above,  except  with  the  approval  of  the  contracting  office.' 

"  Tlie  above  allowed  a  maximum  price  for  shavings  of  5.064  cents  per  pound, 
delivered  at  Nashville. 

"  The  contractor  states  that  in  lieu  of  entering  the  market  as  a  direct 
purchaser  of' shavings,  it  arranged  for  E.  I.  du  Pout  de  Nemours  &  Company 
to  inirchase  the  shavings  required  for  Old  Hickory,  for  the  reason  that  E.  I. 
du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  was  already  a  large  purchaser. 

"  It  was  soon  found  that  shavings  coiild  not  be  bought  within  this 
365       price  limit  and  by  letter  of  June  26,  1918,  here  quoted,  the  contractor 
was  authorized  to  pay  25%   in  excess  of  the  base  price  of  4.22  cents, 
or  a  total  of  5.275  cents  per  pound  for  shavings,  delivered  at  Nashville." 


3492  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

And  then  follows  the  letter  of  the  Procurement  Division  giving  that 
authorization : 

(The  letter  referred  to  is  as  follovps:) 

In  replying  refer  to  No.  AVar.  Ord.  4755-711E.     Sym.  PR.     File  P  471.867/1287 

War   Department, 
Procurement  Division, 
Office  of  the  Chief  of  Ordnance,  Sixth  &  B  Streets  NW., 

Washington,  June  26,  1918. 
E.  I.  Du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co., 

Wilmington,  Del. 
(Attention  of  Mr.  A.  C.  Price,  Assist,  to  Director.) 
Subject :  Contract  price  on  cotton  shavings. 

Gentlemen:  1.  This  will  acknowledge  your  letter  of  May  23,  1918  (our 
file  P471.867/1052),  your  file  A.  C.  P.,  requesting  that  you  be  authorized  to 
pay  in  excess  of  the  20%  increase  over  the  4.220  price  on  cotton  seed  Uull 
shavings  specified  in  contract  P  47550711  E,  between  the  Ordnance  Department 
and  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  for  the  operation  of  the  Government 
smokeless  plant  at  Nashville,  Tenn. 

2.  This  letter  is  for  the  purpose  of  authorizing  you  to  pay  for  cotton 

366  seed  hull  shavings  a  price  not  more  than  25%  in  advance  of  the  4.22^ 
price  mentioned  in  contract. 

3.  This  is  in  accordance  with  conversation  between  the  officers  of  this  divi- 
sion and  your  Mr.  Price  and  your  vice  president,  Mr.  Connable. 
Respectfully, 

Procurement  Division, 
Samuel  McRoberts,  Col.,  Ord.  N.  A, 
By  (s)  Chas.  N.  Black,  Lt.  Co.,  Ord.  N.  A. 

Mr.  Gregg   (continuing  reading)  : 

"  The  contractor  states  that  it  was  not  realized  for  some  time  that  the  above 
letter  and  the  contract  itself  made  the  price  of  5.275  cents  include  delivery  at 
Nashville,  and  shavings  were  purchased  within  the  price  limit  of  5.275  cents 
per  pound,  f.  o.  b.  point  of  production. 

"  The  contractor  states  that  under  date  of  October  18,  1918,  the  Ordnance 
Department  was  requested  to  authorize  an  increase  in  the  maximum  price 
limit  for  hull  fibre  or  shavings,  this  request  being  in  the  form  of  a  letter,  below 
quoted :  " 

(The  letter  is  as  follows:) 

E.  I.  DU  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co., 

October  18,  1918. 
Major  W.  H.  Gelshenen, 

Procurement  Division,   Ordnance  Department, 
Sixth  &  B  8ts.,  N.  W.,  Washington,  D.  C. 

367  Dear  Sir:   Confirming  our  conversation  this  morning  regarding  hull 
fibre  and  recommendations — that 

1.  We  declare  our  policy. 

2.  Indicate  a  price  we  can  pay  for  fibre. 

3.  Establish  this  policy  and  price  upon  as  firm  a  foundation  as  possible,  all 
factors  considered. 

We  repeat  and  confirm  our  expressed  view  that  this  price  should  be  5% 
cents  per  pound,  f.  o.  b.  point  of  production. 

We  give  below  the  estimated  cost  of  producing  fibre  in  large  quantities  at 
varying  hull  prices  starting  at  $20.00  per  ton  down  to  and  including  $10.00 
hulls : 

Hulls  at  $20.00  per  ton,  fibre  cost  $7.14  per  lb. 

"  19.00     "  "  "  "  6.94  " 

"  18.00  "  "  "  "  6.69  " 

"  17.00  "  "  "  "  6.44  " 

"  16.00  "  "  "  "  6.19  " 

"  15.00  "  "  "  "  5.94  " 

"  14.00  "  "  "  "  5.69  " 

"  13.00  "  "  "  "  5.44  " 

"  12.00  "  "  "  "  5.19  " 

"  11.00  "  ".  "  "  4.94  " 

"  10.00  "  "  "  "  4.69  " 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3493 

Since  the  price  recommended  is  an  increase  over  the  price  limit  specified 
in  contract  existing  between  the  Government  and  tlie  du  Pont  Company,  it 
Is  necessary  that  we  secure  your  approval  before  contracting  for  fibre  require- 
ments. 

Therefore,  upon  receipt  of  letter  containing  your  approval,  we  shall  proceed 
to   buy. 

368  Our  plan  will  be  to  advise  those  experienced  in,  at  present  engaged  in, 
and    equipped    to  make   acceptable   fibre,    without   new    construction    or 

increased  plant  equipment,  that  we  are  ready  to  negotiate  fibre  contracts  for 
a  limited  tonnage  at  a  price  of  5i/4  cents  per  pound,  f.  o.  b.  point  of  production, 
fibre    to    be    made   under    enclosed    specifications,    deliveries    to  be    shown    by 
months  up  to  but  not  beyond  June  1,  1919. 
Very  truly  yours, 

(s)     F.  L.  Conn  ABLE,  Vice  President. 

Mr.  Gregg.  There  being  no  reply  to  that  letter,  the  contractor  followed  it 
up  with  another  letter  on  October  31,  191S.    This  letter  is  quoted. 
(The  letter  is  as  follows:) 

October  31,  1918. 
Major  W.  H.  Gelshenen, 

Ordnance  Department,  Procurement  Division, 
Sixth  d  B  Sts.,  N.  W.,  Washington,  D.  C. 
Delvr  Sir:  You  have  not  yet  advised  us  in  writing  of  the  authority  to  pay 
514^  for  fibre.     As  the  contract  specifications  limit  to  .04670  f.  o.  b.  points  of 
production,  our  records,  to  be  complete,  should  have  your  written  authority 
to  pay  514   figure. 

We  advised   you  that   certain   purchases  had   already  been   made  covering 

monthly  deliveries  up  to  August  1st,  1919.     Is  it  your  desire  to  have  on  file 

a    record    of   these   purchases   as   made   with    the   sellers,    naming   the 

369  quantities?     If  so,  we  shall  promptly  supply  this  information. 
Yours  very  truly, 

F.  L.  Conn  ABLE,  Vice  President. 
Mr.  Gregg   (continuing  reading)  : 

"  It  will  be  noted  that  the  contractor's  letter  of  October  31,  1918,  refers  to 
the  price  limit  named  in  the  contract  as  .0467  cents  but  I'equests  authority  to 
pay  5Vi  cents  for  fibre.  The  limit  of  .0467  is  the  unit  price  named  in  the  con- 
tract for  linters,  and  the  contractor  contends  that  the  following  letter  from 
the  War  Department,  dated  November  5,  1918,  erroneously  refers  to  linters 
and  that  this  letter  was  intended  to  refer  to  hull  fiber  or  shavings." 

Now,  that  last  letter  of  November  5,  1918,  from  the  Ordnance  Department 
reads  like  this : 

War  Department, 
Office  of  the  Chief  of  Ordnance, 

Procurement  Division, 
Washington,  November  5,  1918. 
To  insure  prompt  attention  in  replying  refer  to  P.  No.  471.857/1730  ;  attention  of  Major 
W.  H.  Gelsbenen. 

E.  I.  DU  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company, 

Wilmington.  Delaware. 
(Attention  of  Mr.  Frank  L.  Connable.) 
Subject:  Cotton  linters. 

Gentlemen  :  1.  The  Ch'ef  of  Ordnance  instructs  me  to  authorize  you  that 
under  the  circumstances  of  the  shortage  of  the  crop  in  cotton  linters 

370  you    may    advance    the   limit    agreed   upon   for   the   purchase    of    fibre 
from  .0467  cents  f.  o.  b.  points  of  production  to  .0525  same  terms  and 

conditions. 

2.  The  second  paragraph  in  your  letter  of  October  31st  is  noted,  and  it  is 
felt  that  it  would  be  better  policy  to  spread  the  present  orders  over  a  greater 
number  of  producers  and  confine  purchases  to  the  next  four  or  five  months 
rather  than  to  tie  up  with  one  or  tv/o  purchasers  for  a  long  period.  In  this 
way  the  connnitments  of  the  Department  at  any  one  time  will  not  be  as  heavy. 
Respectfully, 

W.  H.  Gelshenen,  Major,  Ord.  Dcpt.,  U.  S.  A. 

Mr.  Gregg.  Now,  it  is  perfectly  apparent  that  that  letter,  in  using  the  .0467 
cents,  was  in  error,  because  that  was  the  price  paid  for  cotton  linters  and 


3494  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

the  price  fixed  by  the  Governmeut,  aud  that  in  using  that  he  intended  to  refer 
to  hull  shavings. 

"  The  contractor  states  that  the  average  cost  of  all  shavings  purchased 
was  5.59o9  cents  per  pound  delivered  at  Nashville. 

'■  The  contractor  further  states  that  to  the  best  of  its  knowledge,  the  United 
►States  did  not  directly  fix  the  price  of  shavings,  but  did  indirectly  fix  it 
through  the  act  of  the  Food  Administration  in  naming  a  piice  of  $2()  per  ton 
for  cotton  hulls,  which  was  equivalent  to  a  price  of  7.14  cents  per  pound  for 
shavings  at  point  of  production. 

"  The  contractor  contends   that  it  purchased  shavings   at  the  lowest 

371  obtainable  price  and  in  particular  at  less  cost  than  the  price  for  shav- 
ings corresponding  to  the  Food  Administration's  price  for  hulls;   and, 

further,  had  the  Ordnance  Department  been  requested  earlier  to  authorize  an 
increased  price,  the  authorization  would  have  been  given,  as  hull  shavings  had 
to  be  obtained.  And  this  conclusion  is  justified  by  the  approval  which  was 
given  by  the  Ordnance  Department  on  November  5,  1918,  to  pay  5.25  cents 
per  pound  f.  o.  b.  point  of  production. 

"  The  amount  involved,  viz.,  $42,354.98,  was  allowed  by  the  Assistant  Secre- 
tary ol  War  under  date  of  April  5,  1922,  by  the  following  decision : 

"  '  1.  Freight  on  shavings  being  a  claim  for  $45,572.27  by  reason  of  a  payment 
by  the  contractor  of  prices  for  cotton  shavings  in  excess  of  prices  stipulated 
in  article  IV  of  the  contract — allowed.' 

"  It  will  be  observed  that  the  amount  allowed  by  the  Assistant  Secretary 
was  $45,572.27,  but  the  actual  amount  as  it  finally  checked  out  was  $42,354.98." 

So  that  that  item  has  been  passed  by  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War. 
[Continuing  reading.] 

"  Question  2.  Was  this  cotton  bought  from  du  Pont?  " 

I  would  like  to  explain  to  the  board  that  while  fibre  and  hull  shavings  were 

bought  by  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company,  cotton  linters,  beginning  in 

May  1918,  were  bought  exclusively  by  du  Pont  American  Industries,  Inc.,  for 

the  reason   that  along  in  April  and  May  of  1918  the  Ordnance  Department 

asked  the  du  Pont  Company  if  it  would  not  become  its,  the  Ordnance 

372  Department's  agent,  for  the  purchase  of  all  cotton  linters  produced  in  the 
United   States,  it  having  become  necessary  at  that  time  to   take  every 

step  that  it  was  possible  to  take  in  order  to  protect  the  supply  of  cotton 
linters,  and  also  to  keep  a  curb  on  the  price.  And  the  price  that  was  estab- 
lished by  the  War  Industries  Board  was  .0467  cents  per  pound  point  of 
location  or  production.  The  du  Pont  American  Industries  was  paid  a  small 
compensation  per  bale  for  taking  up  the  linters.  It  had  a  force  of  inspectors 
in  various  places  in  the  cotton  producing  sections,  and  maintained  an  ofiice 
at  Memiihis,  Tennessee.  The  cotton  linters  upon  being  taken  up  by  the  du 
Pont  American  Industries  were  then  allocated  by  the  War  Industries  Board 
to  the  various  consumers  in  this  country,  and  also  to  the  various  foreign  gov- 
ernments who  were  acquiring  linters  in  the  United  States. 

Now  coming  to  the  last  question : 

"  Question  2.  Was  this  cotton  bought  from  du  Pont?  " 

"Answer.  When  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  on  account  of  its  Old 
Hickory  operations,  became  a  prospective  purchaser  of  shavings,  it  was 
decided  that  it  would  be  unwise  to  enter  the  market  as  an  additional  com- 
petitor which  might  have  had  a  tendency  to  cause  sellers  to  increase  prices, 
inasmuch  as  the  demand  at  this  time  for  cotton-hull  shavings  was  in  excess 
of  the  supply.  It  was,  therefore,  mutually  agreed  that  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 
Nemours  &  Company  would  buy  not  only  for  its  own  requirements,  but  arrange 
to  purchase  such  shavings  as  might  be  required  by  tlie  du  Pont  Engineering 
Company.     Shavings  for  Old  Hickory,  as  well  as  shavings  for  tlie  plants 

373  of  the  parent  company,  were  ordered  in  accordance  with  a  requirement 
schedule  v.hich  was  revised  from  month  to  month,  or  oftener  if  necessary. 

"  The  purchasing  department  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company 
purchased  millions  of  pounds  of  shavings,  but  such  purchases  were  not  made 
specifically  for  any  plant  or  contract,  but  whenever  shavings  were  required 
by  E.  I.  du  I'ont  de  Nemours  &  Company  or  by  du  Pont  Engineering  Company, 
shipments  were  ordered  by  the  purchasing  department.  Therefore,  (piestion  2 
may  be  answered  l)y  stating  that  cotton-hull  shavings  purchased  in  connection 
with  the  Old  Hickory  operations  were  procured  through  the  agency  of  E.  I. 
du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  nnd  bills  were  rendered  by  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 
Nemours  &  Company  for  such  purchases  to  the  contractor. 

"  Question  3.  Was  there  ever  a  readjustment  on  books  of  this  excessive 
price  and  was  credit  allowed  United  States?" 


MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY  3495 

Now,  I  am  not  going  to  take  the  time  of  the  board  to  read  all  that,  but  I 
will  try  to  state  it  as  briefly  as  I  can.  Mr.  Shafer  calls  my  attention  to  the 
fact  that  this  still  relates  to  the  $42,000  discussed  above.  Our  answer  to  that 
is  that  the  $42,354.98  was  not  retunded  to  the  Government  inasmuch  as  the 
Assistant  Secretary  of  War  held  that  it  was  a  proper  adjustment. 

Colonel  Huix.  Mr.  Gregg,  right  there  may  I  ask  one  question.  What  profit, 
if  any,  did  the  parent  company  charge  the  engineering  company  for  handling 
the  linters  and  shavings? 

Mr.  Gregg.  It  did  not  charge  any  profit,  I  mean  any  profit  in  the  end.  I 
think  I  can  explain  this  briefly  without  reading  this  all  through. 

374  E.  I.  du  Pont  *^le  Nemours  &  Couipan.x    had  conu'acts   with   the  Buck- 
eye Cotton  Oil  Company,  and  the  East  St.  Louis  Cotton  Oil  Company  for 

hull  shavings,  and  some  of  those  contracts  contained  provisions  that  the  price 
should  be  adjusted  toward  the  completion  of  the  contracts,  based  on  ceitain 
considerations,  which  I  do  not  recall  at  the  present  time.  If  necessary  I 
can  furnish  copies  of  the  contracts.  When  we  started  to  deliver  shavingst 
to  Old  Hickory,  Mr.  F.  B.  Connable,  vice  president  of  the  E.  I.  du  Pont 
de  Nemours  &  Company,  was  then  in  charge  of  the  purchase  of  hull  shavings. 
Mr.  A.  C.  Price,  one  of  his  assistants,  wrote  a  memorandum  to  Mr.  Connable 
asking  him  at  what  price  he  should  bill  hull  shavings  to  Old  Hickory,  and 
Mr.  Connable  made  a  notation  on  tiie  memcirandum  and  sent  it  back,  stating  to 
charge  5%  cents,  subject  to  adjustment  later.  That  price  was  charged  by 
E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  to  du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  and 
was  paid  by  du  Pont  Engineering  Company.  After  the  armistice,  in  the  year 
1919,  Mr.  Connable  was  taken  ill,  and  has  never  taken  any  active  part  in  the 
company  s  nee  that  time.    I  am  right  about  that,  am  I  notV 

Mr.  Haskell.  Yes. 

Mr.  Gregg.  The  adjustment  of  the  price  for  shavings  was  overlooked,  and 
when  the  auditors  for  the  War  Department  were  engaged  on  their  work  at 
Philadelphia  they  discovered  that  the  dti  Pont  Engineering  Compan.v  had 
been  charged  over  and  above  the  actual  cost  of  shavings  to  B.  I.  du  Pont  de 
Nemouvs  &  Company  a  total  of  $150,497.77.  The  amount  last  stated  is  the 
excess,  inchiding  itank  interest  at  2  percent  from  the  date  each  overcharge  was 
made  to  the  date  the  excess  was  refunded  to  the  Government. 

375  This  excess  was  reported  to  us  by  the  auditors  at  Philadelphia.     We 
immediately  took  the  matter  up  and  went  into  it,  found  out  that  there 

had  been  an  excess,  and  the  total  excess  with  interest  was  paid  back  by  E.  I. 
du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  to  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  and  the 
amount  credited  to  the  Government. 

As  to  cotton  linters,  the  same  thing  happened  there.  Some  cotton  linters 
were  turned  over  to  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  by  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 
Nemours  &  Company  prior  to  the  time  that  dti  Pont  American  Industries 
started  to  function  as  agents  for  the  Government  in  the  purchase  of  cotton 
linters,  and  the  same  thing  was  done  there.  A  certain  fixed  amount  per 
pound  was  changed  the  Government  subject  to  adjustment  later.  That  ad- 
justment was  overlookeil  due  to  Mr.  Connable's  absence,  the  same  as  the 
excess  on  hull  shavings  was  overlooked. 

The  total  overcharge,  including  interest,  in  connection  with  cotton 
linters.  amounted  to  a  total  of  $157,976.03,  which  amount  was  paid  back  by 
E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company  to  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  and 
credited    to    the   Government. 

"  Question  4.  Why  were  forty-seven  carloads  of  cotton  of  a  value  of  $83,000 
shipped  from  Hopewell,  a  du  Pont  plant,  to  Old  Hickory,  on  February  15, 
1919? 

"Answer.  Tlirough  an  error  on  the  part  of  the  consignors,  the  Buckeye  Cot- 
ton Oil  Company,  of  Cincinnati,  Ohio,  45  cars  containing  shavings  ordered  for 
the  old  Hickory  powder  plant  were  shipped  and  delivered  to  E.  I.  du  Pont 
de  Nemours  &   Company,   at   Hopewell,   Virginia,    and   when   this  error 

376  was  discovered  the  linters  were  reconsigned  to  the  Old  Hickory  plant. 
This   error   in    shipment    delayed    the   deliveries    at    Old    Hickory    until 

February  1919. 

"  The  latter  part  of  1918  an  order  was  placed  with  the  Buckeye  Cotton  Oil 
Company,  of  Cincinnati.  Ohio,  for  November  delivery  of  shavings  at  the  Old 
Hickory  powder  plant,  but  through  a  misunderstanding  on  the  part  of  the 
Buckeye  Cotton  Oil  Company,  they  were  consigned  to  E.  I.  du  Pont  de 
Nemours  &  Company  at  Hopewell,  Virginia.  As  soon  as  this  error  was  de- 
tected, the  Buckeye  Cotton  Oil  Company  was  notified  to  stop  further  ship- 
ments to  Hopewell  and  arrange  for  the  diversion  of  all  cars  en  route.     Prior 


3496  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

to  the  latter  part  of  1918  the  cotton  hull  shavings  purchased  for  Old  Hickory 
were  furnished  by  the  East  St.  Louis  Cotton  Oil  Company,  but  on  account 
of  their  inability  to  supply  shavings  in  the  latter  part  of  1918,  arrangements 
were  made  with  the  Buckeye  Cotton  Oil  Company  to  furnish  these  shavings. 
The  Buekeye  Company  had  been  shipping  to  Hopewell,  Virginia,  regularly  and 
had  theretofore  never  shipped  any  shavings  to  Old  Hickory.  This  accounted 
for  the  misunderstanding  of  the  shipping  directions.  The  Buckeye  Company 
admitted  the  error  and  absorbed  the  difference  in  freight  charges.  In  other 
words,  the  Government  only  paid  freight  charges  from  originating  points  to 
Old  Hickory,  the  excess  freight  charges  resulting  from  the  shipment  into 
Hopewell  and  from  Hopewell  to  Old  Hickory  were  borne  by  the  Buckeye 
Cotton  Oil  Company. 

"  It  may  be  here  stated  that  had  these  shavings  been  retained  at  the 
Hopewell  plant,  they  would  have  been  delivered  to  and  charged  to  the 
877  United  States  in  the  inventory  of  materials  on  hand  at  the  Hopewell 
plant  at  the  close  of  operations  there.  So  that  any  inference  that  the  du 
Pont  Company  was  trying  to  unload  shavings  at  the  expense  of  the  Govern- 
ment is  without  justification.  The  shavings  that  were  shipped  fiom  Hope- 
well to  Old  Hickory  were  purchased  for  use  at  Old  Hickory  on  du  Pont 
Engineering  requisition  GOH-2128,  copy  of  which  is  hereto  attached,  marked 
'  Exhibit  IS.' 

"  Question  5,  Explain  this  transaction. 

"  Answer.  See  answer  to  question  4  above. 

"Question  6.  Excess  on  cotton  shavings  of  $42,354.98.     Was  this  refunded? 

"  Answer.  See  answer  to  question  1." 

I  have  already  stated  in  here  that  it  was  not  refunded  for  the  reason  that 
it  was  allowed  by  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War. 

"  Question  7.  Explain  weights  from  du  Pont  American  Industries  of  1,000 
lbs.  to  2,468  lbs.  per  bale,  on  cotton  linters,  so  charged  to  United  States  (see 
Agent  Towles'  report.)" 

As  I  understand  it  one  of  the  reasons  for  asking  that  question  is  that  it  was 
thought  impossible  that  a  bale  of  cotton  linters  could  weigh  as  much  as  2,468 
pounds.     In  fact  I  have  never  known  of  one  that  weighed  that  much. 

This  is  still  part  of  the  question  [continuing  reading]  : 

"  The  following  is  a  list  of  apparent  over-weights  charged  in  shipments  of 
cotton  linters  to  the  Old  Hickory  powder  plant,  as  evidenced  by  documents 
in  the  possession  of  investigators  for  the  Department  of  Justice: 

378  "  '  Car  D.  L.  &  W.  no.  34250  from  Hopewell,  Ya.     2/20/19.     45  bales 
weighing  59,980,  average  1,332  pounds  to  bale. 

"  '  Car  N.  Y.  C.  no.  236165  from  Hopewell,  Va.  2/22/19.  51  bales  weighing 
76,144,  average  1,492  pounds  to  bale. 

"  '  Car  R.  F.  &  P.  no.  2203,  from  Mangum,  Okla.  11/7/18.  40  bales  weighing 
98,749,  average  2,468  pounds  to  bale. 

"  '  Car  M.  K.  T.  no  94333  from  Dallas,  Texas.  10/16/18.  24  bales  weighing 
24,000  pounds,  average  1,000  pounds  per  bale. 

"  '  All  of  the  above  from  du  Pont  American  Industries.' 

"Answer.  No  standard  package  weight  for  linters  or  shavings  has  been  estab- 
lished or  recognlzetl  by  dealers  in  these  commodities  and  bales  vary  consider- 
ably in  weight.  The  avoidupois  pound  is  the  unit  on  which  trading  is  based  and 
the  public  weigher  or  warehouse  weight  certificates  are  usually  accepted  by  both 
sellers  and  buyers. 

"Agent  Towles'  report,  supplementary  to  your  question,  is  apparently  based 
on  incorrect  information,  inasmuch  as  the  following  errors  are  apparent : 

"  The  first  two  cars  mentioned  by  him  were  not  obtained  through  the  du 
Pont  American  Industries,  but  from  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company,  and 
contained  cotton  hull  shavings  and  not  linters.  The  other  two  cars  did  contain 
cotton  linters  and  were  billed  by  du  Pont  American  Industi'ies. 

"  The  shipments  were  as  follows : 

"  D.  L.  &  W.  car  no.  34250,  from  Hopewell,  Va.,  February  20,  1919,  billed 
by  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company,  no.  3205  (1919),  contained  45  bales 
of  cotton  hull  shavings,  29,980  lbs.,  which  is  an  average  weight  per  bale  of  666 
lbs.     See  bill  of  lading,  exhibit  19,  attached  hereto." 

379  The  weight  given  by  the  Government  is  59,980,  as  against  our  weight 
of  29,980. 

Mr.  Caknduff.  That  was  the  weight,  Mr.  Gregg,  that  du  Pont  paid  for  this 
cotton,  but  the  vouchers  in  the  possession  of  the  investigators  at  Nashville  show 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3497 

receipts  of  the  other  amount.     Now  there  may  have  been   some   padding   at 
Nashville. 

Mr.  Gregg.  By  whom? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  A  railroad  employee  on  freight. 

Mr.  Shafek.  a  railroad  employee  on  freight? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Yes. 

Mr.  Shafee.  That  is  something  I  could  not  get  into. 

Mr.  Caknduff.  Possil)ly.     We  have  the  other  figures,  and  you  have  yours. 

Mr.  Shafer.  I  have  the  bills  of  lading. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Well,  these  gentlemen  have  the  other  figures  down  there. 

The  Chairman.  Would  there  be  a  possibility  of  a  clerical  error?  I  see  it  is 
a  difference  of  only  one  figure. 

Mr.  Shafee.  That  is  what  I  think  it  is. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  No,  there  are  various  errors.  These  are  four  illustrations 
M-e  gave  them.  Now  our  investigators  at  Nashville  have  these  other  figures 
en  documents.  The  due  Pont  Company  have  their  vouchers  showing  what 
they  paid  for  on  these  identical  cars.  There  is  something  wrong  somewhere 
on  these  vouchers. 

Mr.  Gregg.  Well,  then,  let  me  understand  you.     Do  you  mean  to  say  that 
we  paid  for  more  linters  and  shavings  than  we  got? 
Mr.  Carnduff.  We  don't  know. 

380  Mr.  McLane.  That  is  what  we  want  you  to  tell  us.     We  don't  know 
what  the  facts  are. 

Mr.  Gregg.  That  is  what  we  are  telling  you. 

Mr.  McLane.  We  only  know  what  the  books  at  Nashville  show,  and  what 
the  papers  there  show.     And  we  are  asking  you  to  find  out. 

Mr.   Shafer.  We  brought  our  invoices  to  show. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  We  can  eliminate  all  that  by  comparison  after  this  meeting 
of  the  vouchers ;  we  can  get  at  the  bottom  of  that.  If  I  were  you  I  would 
just  skip  all  that  now. 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  want  to  state  this,  that  in  every  car  that  has  been  reported  to 
us  there  is  no  bale  that  weighed  over  700  pounds.  And  on  the  information  that 
we  have  stated  here  we  can  prove  by  our  invoices  and  cancelled  checks  that 
we  oidy  paid  for  the  quantity  of  linters  that  we  have  here  stated  in  our 
answer  to  the  Government's  question. 

Mr.  Camp:ron.  And  that  you  only  paid  the  railroad  freights  at  the  weights 
that  you  just  read? 

Mr.  Gregg.  How  about  that,  Mr.  Shafer? 

Mr.  Shafer.  I  have  made  no  attempts  at  checking  freights  in  connection 
with  these  particular  linters.  It  is  not  covered  by  the  question,  and  that  was 
not  a  question  that  was  brought  up  before  us. 

Mr.  Gregg.  No ;  it  is  not  indicated  by  the  question  at  all. 

"  r».  Freight  charges. — Question  1.  Was  a  reaudit  or  refund  of  excessive 
freight  ever  made? 

"  Answer.  A  reaudit  of  freight  bills  was  made  by  the  War  Department,  and 
refunds  of  freight  overcharges   detected  by  the  contractor  or  revealed 

381  by  the  Government  audit  or  disclosed  during  audit  made  by  the  Rail- 
road Administration,  were  refunded  to  the  contractor,  with  the  excep- 
tion of  overcharges  in  freight  by  the  N.  C.  &  St.  L.  Railroad  Companv,  which 
claiius  aggregating  $26,411.09  were  withheld  by  the  N.  C.  &  St.  L.  Railroad 
Company  on  the  grounds  that  its  accounts  with  the  United  States  were  in 
process  of  adjustment,  and  it  was  not  considered  advisable  to  pay  this  amount 
to  the  contractor  at  the  time.  In  this  connection,  it  is  well  to  state  the 
method   which   was  pursued   by   the  contractor  in   handling  freight  bills. 

"  Freight  bills  were  presented  at  the  contractor's  plants  when  materials  cov- 
ered by  such  freight  bills  were  delivered.  These  freight  bills  were  then  noted 
with  reference  to  the  contractor's  order  numbers  for  identification  purposes. 
The  railroad  companies  made  eight  drafts  on  the  contractor  at  convenient 
intervals  attaching  to  such  drafts  statements  of  the  freight  bills  covered,  which 
drafts  were  honored  by  the  contractor,  and  after  the  freight  bills  were  received 
from  the  plants  at  the  Wilmington  office,  they  were  checked  with  the  above- 
described  statements,  and  any  discrepancies  detected  were  taken  up  with  the 
railroads  for  adjustment.  At  the  Wilmington  office  of  the  contractor  all  freight 
bills  were  checked  with  the  material  orders  or  requisitions  and  the  proper 
references  cross  reference  noted  for  record.  Each  freight  bill  was  given  a 
serial  number  and  entered  on  registers.     The  charges  were  then  recapitulated 


3498  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

iind  distributed  to  the  proper  ledger  accounts.     After  tlie  contractor  liad  com- 
pleted the  above  process,  the  freight  bills  were  transmitted  to  tlie  contracting 
oflicer  of  the  United  States  who  proceeded  to  audit  same  in  any  manner 

382  that  he  desired.     Upon  the  return  of  tliese  bills  to  the  contractor,  the 
freight  bills  relating  to  operating  projects  were  forwarded  to  the  traflSc 

department  for  audit  as  to  rates. 

"  Construction  freight  bills  were  not  subjected  to  an  audit  as  to  rates  on 
account  of  the  fact  that  the  United  States  Government  did  not  consider  such 
an  audit  necessary  or  desirable.  See  letters  hereto  attached,  marked  '  Ex- 
hibit 23.'  " 

Those  are  both  letters  from  the  Government  to  us. 

Mr.  McLa^e.  May  I  ask  you  a  (luestion  there.  If  on  construction  freight 
a  haul  ot  70  miles,  at  a  price  of  $27U  a  car  to  $350  a  car  was  made  upon  that 
shipment,    that    would    not    be    cheeked    at    all    by    the    du    Pimt    Company? 

Mr.  Shafer.  Not  to  a  rate  audit ;  no. 

Mr.  McLanb.  If  it  was  $270  to  $350  a  car,  and  hauled  for  70  miles,  if  it  was 
construction  it  would  not  be  checked? 

Mr.  SiiAFER.  I  do  not  doubt  anything  glaring  has  been  checked  up  and  seen 
by  the  Government  or  by  ourselves,  but  we  do  not  subject  construction  freight 
bills  to  a  rate  audit  as  we  did  to  operating  bills. 

Mr.  McIiANE.  If  that  should  be  paid  by  Mason  &  Hanger,  under  the  con- 
tract 5  percent  was  added? 

Mr.  ShaI'^ek.  It  would  be  if  paid  direct  by  Mason  «&:  Hanger.  Not  on  any 
Ihat  we  paid  direct. 

Mr.  McLane.  And  that  would  never  come  to  the  notice  of  the  du  Pont  En- 
gineering Company,  or  the  parent  company? 

Mr.  Shafek.  It  would  not  by  a  rate  check  through  the  traffic  department, 
because  we  did  not  check  construction  rates.  We  were  instructed  by  the 
Government  not  to. 

383  Mr.  Carkdtiff.  He  asked  you  if  that  would  come  to  your  notice. 

Mr.  McLake.  We  have  evidence  of  freight  rates  of  $270  to  $350  per 
ear  for  70-mile  haul. 

Mr.  Shafek.  Our  trafhc  department  functined  on  all  fi-eight  bills  on  operat- 
ing projects.     We  were  requested  not  to  do  it  on  construction  projects. 

Colonel  Hull.  That  statement  was  made  here  last  May,  and  we  thought  that 
was  one  of  the  things  to  be  checked  up.  Has  any  attempt  been  made  to  check 
it  up? 

Mr.  McLane.  Yes ;  the  check  has  been  made. 

Colonel  Hull.  And  the  check  shows  we  paid  it? 

Mr.    McLane.  Yes. 

Mr.  Stark.  The  Government  auditeil  all  construction  freight  bills  in  their 
own  auditing  department  in   Wilmington. 

Mr.  Caunduff.  How  much  money  is  involved? 

Mr.    Stark.  I    don't   knew. 

Colonel  Hull.  How  many  cars  ^^•ere  there  on  which  that  excessive  freight 
was  paid? 

Mr.  Stark.  I  suppose  about  40  or  50. 

Colonel  Hltll.  Do  You  know  how  many? 

Mr.    Stark.  No. 

Mr.  Gregg.  Mr.  Stark,  have  you  examined  our  canceled  checks  to  see  as  to 
whether  we  paid  that? 

Mr.    Stark.  Not  yet. 

Mv.  Shater.  Are  you  sure  we  have  not  collected  a  refund? 

Mr.    Stark.  1   don't  know. 

Mr.  Shafer.  You  know  we  overpaid  on  many  of  them  and  got  refund. 

384  Mr.  Caknduff.  Did  you  collect  from  Mason  &  Hanger  the  5  percent 
when   you   overpaid? 

Mr.  SiiAiEK.  Any  payment  that  we  made  to  Alason  &  Hanger  that  involved 
a  commission — any  such  pajment  \\'e  paid  and  we  always  got  it  back. 

Mr.  (Umrrox.  Mr.  Shafer,  you  said  that  you  were  directed  by  the  War  De- 
partment not  to  audit  freiglit  rates. 

Mr.    SiiAFER.  l^es. 

Mr.  Cameron.  Do  you  recall  by  whom  you  were  directed,  or  was  that  a 
written  order? 

Mr.  Gregg,  ('opy  of  the  letter  is  attached,  exhibit  23. 

Mr.  Shafek.  I  will  read  it.     It  is  short.     [Reading:] 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3499 

War  De2»ai;tment,  Office  of  the  Chief  of  Ordnance 

General  Administijation  Bureau 

Cost  Accounting  Bil\nch,  Accounting  Section, 

Washington 

Wilmingtoji,  Del,  April  1st,  1919. 
From :  Cost  Accountiug  Branch,  Accounting  Section,  Ordnance  Department,  du 
Pent   Engineering   Company. 

To :  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  Wilmington,  Delaware. 
(Attention  W.  H.  Crouch.) 

1.  This  is  to  inform  you  that  it  will  not  be  necessary  for  your  traffic  depart- 
ment to  audit  the  freight  bids  ou  various  contracts  here,  after  we  have  had 
them,  as  we  have  had  a  ruling  from  Washington  stating  that  this  shculd  not 
lip  done  by  the  du  Pont  Company,  as  they  intended  performing  this  function  in 
Washington. 

2.  Tlie  main  point  of  this  is  that  the  traffic  department  would  not  know,  or 
be  able  to  catch  errors  of  rates  that  the  Government  is  entitled  to  ou  all  ship- 
ments. 

3.  Please  acknowledge. 
3S5  By   (s)   C.    H.    Hartman. 

C.    H.    Hartman, 
Supervising  Accountant-in-Chargc,  Ordnanee  Department,  U.  S.  A. 

Mr.  Camei:on.  Mr.  Shafer,  at  that  time,  however,  the  largest  part  of  the  ex- 
penditure had  been  made  on  freights? 

Mr.  Shab'ek.  Yes ;  but  you  must  remember  this,  that  after  we  had  cheeked 
our  freight  bills  with  the  accounting  department  they  were  sent  to  the  Gov- 
ernment to  be  checked,  and  the  Government  held  those  particular  bills  an 
awful  long  time.  All  of  the  operating  bills  did  not  come  to  our  traffic  depart- 
ment until  after  the  war  was  over. 

Mr.  Cameron.  Would  that  be  the  reason  that  the  du  Pouts  did  not  function 
as  auditing  the  freight  bills  ou  construction? 

Mr.  Shab-er.  Yes ;  as  auditing  the  rates,  yes ;  because  we  did  not  send  the 
bills  for  checking  rates  to  the  traffic  department  until  after  thej'  had  been  func- 
tioned on  by  United  States  auditors. 

Mr.  McLanb.  I  am  not  sure  that  I  understood  your  statement  as  to  the  N.  C. 
&  St.  L.  Railroad  Company's  freight  rates.  Is  it  admitted  that  they  hold 
$29,(XI0? 

]\Ir.  Shafer.  $26,000.  I  don't  know  whether  they  are  still  holding  it.  I  sup- 
pose they  turned  it  over  to  the  United  States. 

Mr.   MgLanb.  They  are  still  holding  it. 

Mr.  Shafe^r.  AVell,  possibly  tliey  are.     I  cannot  answer  that  question. 

Mr.  jMcLane.  We  claim  $29,000.     Your  figures  show  $26,000,  do  they? 
386  Mr.  Shafer.  $26,000. 

Mr.  McLane.  Do  you  know  of  any  reason  why  that  should  not  be  paid 
back? 

Mr.  Shafek.  I  don't  know  of  any  reason,  but  I  don't  see  what  difference  it 
makes  whether  it  is  paid  back  to  us  or  not.  If  it  is  paid  back  to  us  we  will 
hand  it  back  to  the  Government,  or  the  Government  will  collect  it  from  the 
railroad   company   through    the   Railroad   Administration    receipts. 

Mr.  McLane.  It  is  admitted  that  the  railroad  withholds  it  illegally? 

Mr.  SHAFEai.  They  are  withheld  by  that  amount  of  $26,000.  I  don't  know 
whether  illegally.  I  could  not  say  that.  I  could  not  say  that  it  was  illegally 
held,  because  I  don't  know. 

Mr.  McLane.  At  least  erroneously? 

Mr.   Shafek.  Erroneously — I  don't  know  even   that. 

General  Williams.  Well,  the  same  question  was  brought  up  before  in  May. 
Hasn't  the  Department  of  Justice  had  time  to  determine  in  these  six  months 
or  seven  months  that  have  passed  whether  it  was  legally  or  illegally  held? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  We  are  asking  the  du  Ponts. 

Mr.  McLane.  We  are  asking  the  du  Ponts  because 

Mr.  Gregg  (interposing).  No;  you  are  not  asking  that  question  of  us  at  all, 
about  freight.     The  freight  that   you   are  talking  about  there   now   was   not 
brought  out  in  this  question  at  all. 
83876— 35— FT  14 22 


3500  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Well,  we  asked  you  the  circumstances  of  the  $26,000,  and  you 
explained  them  very  nicely  here. 

Mr.  Gkegg.  You  did  not  ask  us  about  the  $26,000. 

387  Mr.  Shafer.  I  mentioned  it  in  my  brief. 
Mr.  Gregg.  Yes. 

Mr.  McLane.  The  railroads  state  that  they  paid  it  and  are  charging  it  to 
profit  and  loss. 

Mr.  Shafer.  Yes ;  and  that  will  be  settled  with  the  Government,  and  in 
Railroad  Administration  affairs  it  does  not  make  any  difference  whether  we 
return  it  to  the  Government  or  the  raih-oad. 

Mr.  McLane.  Are  there  other  accounts  of  similar  nature? 

Mr.  Shafer.  No  ;  there  are  not.  Those  are  the  only  freight  claims  that  I 
know  of  that  have  not  been  settled. 

Mr.  McLake.  What  explanation  is  made  to  tlie  general  charge  of  tariff 
rates  on  cotton  linters,  etc.,  Birmingham  to  Nashville,  of  53  cents  to  $3.53? 
And  from  Memphis,  a  rate  of  from  61  cents  to  $3.61. 

Mr.  Shafer.  I  am  not  prepared  to  answer  that  question.  It  is  a  question 
I  have  never  looked  into  at  all. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Well,  that  is  a  question  that  you  can  take  up  later. 

General  Williams.  Mr.  Chairman,  why  should  these  questions  be  plucked 
out  of  the  air?     Why  shouldn't  some  evidence  of  the  fact  be  submitted? 

Mr.  Gregg.  If  they  will  be  good  enough  to  give  us  a  list  of  the  stuff  they 
have  there  we  will  take  it  and  check  it  out  for  them  immediately. 

General  Wiixiams.  Why,  Mr.  McLane,  when  he  asks  that  question,  must  have 
definite  information  concerning  the  particular  items  that  are  involved,  and  the 
circumstances  under  which  he  got  it.  Now  it  seems  to  me  that  the  committee 
is  entitled  to  that  information  ccmcerning  this  question. 

388  Mr.  Anderson.  I  thiidi:,  if  I  may  suggest,  that  we  ought  to  finish  what 
we  have  brought  out,  and  then  these  additional  questions  of  Mr.  M>Lane 

that  came  up  this  morning,  and  any  additional  points  that  we  have  to  cover 
we  take  up  with  the  du  Pouts  for  more  careful  analysis  before  we  go  into  them. 

Mr.  McLane.  I  can  see  no  objection  to  asking  these  questions.  If  they  are 
not  prepared  to  answer  them,  certainly  it  will  do  no  harm  to  ask.  The  informa- 
tion is  not  before  them,  and  the  gentleman  stated  that  he  does  not  know. 

Mr.  Gregg.  Well,  Mr.  McLane,  if  we  are  going  to  do  this  thing  across  the 
table 

Mr.  Anderson.  These  questions  are  being  developed  from  time  to  time  in  the 
investigation,  and  a  list  of  them  was  being  made.  Now  we  have  given  you 
as  far  as  we  have  gotten,  and  we  will  give  you  others  as  they  develop.  You 
will  be  given  the  questions,  and  an  opportunity  to  answer  fully.  But  there 
is  no  use  taking  up  time  now  and  discussing  them. 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  fully  agree  with  you  on  that,  Colonel.  Let  us  have  the  data  as 
soon  as  you  can  possibly  get  it  to  us  so  that  we  can  go  ahead  and  clean  it  up. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Quite  right. 

Mr.  Gregg,     (continuing  reading)  : 

"  Over-payment  or  under-payments  of  freight  in  connection  with  construction 
projects  did  not  result  in  any  loss  or  gain  to  the  United  States,  inasmuch  as 
overcharges  paid  to  the  Railroad  Administration  and  reimbursed  to  the  con- 
tractor were   returned  to  the  United   States   in  the  form   of  increased 

389  rofcipts  from  the  Railroad  Administration,  and  undercharges  vice  versa 
decreasing  the  Railroad  Administration's  receipts  were  olfset  by  corre- 
sponding decrease  in  the  amount  expended  by  the  contractor  and  reimbursable 
by  the  United  States. 

Freight  in  coiuiection  with  operating  projects,  however,  involved  the  factor 
of  profits  as  follows :  On  all  cost-plus  contracts  the  contractor's  profit  varied 
directly  in  the  ratio  of  cost  at  the  rate  of  profit  stipulated  in  the  contracts. 
Pi'ofits  in  connection  with  the  Old  Hickory  operating  project,  however,  were 
affected  in  an  inverse  ratio,  inasmuch  as  this  contract  provided  that  the  con- 
tractor would  benefit  to  the  extent  of  .^0  percent  In  any  saving  effected  over 
and  al)Ove  a  stipulated  base  price.  Therefore  in  consequence  of  this  iirofit 
factor,  freight  bills  relating  to  the  operating  projects  were  subjected  to  audit 
as  to  rates,  and  clnims  instituted  for  ovei'charges. 

"  Question  2.  Why  was  freight  allowed  to  come  in  at  excess  chnrges? 

"Answer.  The  Railroad  Administrntion  did  not  do  business  with  the  du  Pont 
Engineering  Company  on  a  credit  basis,  and  the  best  arrangement  that  the 
contractor  could  make  was  to  accept  the  sight  drafts  of  the  various  railroads 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3501 

for  freight  in  connectiou  witli  deliveries  at  tlie  plants.  It  was  impracticable 
to  audit  freight  bills  prior  to  payment  and  excess  charges  could  not  be  detected 
until  such  bills  had  been  subjected  to  audit." 

I  might  state  here  that  every  business  concern  in  this  country  handles  its 
freight  bills  that  way.     At  least  we  do.     [Continuing  reading:] 

390  "  Question  3.  Was  Mason  &  Hanger  paid  5  percent  on  this  freight? 

"  Answer.  Under  the  terms  of  the  contract  entered  into  between  the 
du  Pont  Engineering  Company  and  Mason  &  Hanger,  Mason  tfc  Hanger  were 
entitled  to  receive  5  percent  on  the  freight  paid  for  such  materials  as  were  pur- 
chased and  used  by  them  in  connection  with  tlie  work  performed  for  the  du  Pont 
Engineering  Company  at  the  Old  Hickory  Powder  Plant.  However,  a  large 
quantity  of  material  consigned  to  Mason  &  Hanger  was  delivered  to  the  du  Pont 
Engineering  Company  at  the  Old  Hickory  Plant,  and  in  such  instances  wherein 
shipments  were  accepted  directly  by  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  the 
freight  charges  were  included  in  drafts  drawn  by  the  railroad  companies  for 
freight  charges  of  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  and  were  thus  paid  by  the 
du  Pont  Engineering  Company  direct. 

"  In  order  to  save  accounting  work,  Mason  &  Hanger  did  not  insist  upon 
receiving  a  commission  on  freight  paid  by  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  as 
described  above,  and  consequently  received  commission  only  on  such  freight 
as  was  paid  directly  by  themselves  and  included  in  their  invoices  to  the  du  Pont 
Engineering  Company.  Affidavit  of  F.  L.  Rebout,  who  was  employed  by  du  Pont 
Engineering  Company  as  chief  clerk  in  charge  of  the  freight-checking  division, 
is  hereto  attached,  marked  '  Exhibit  24.'  " 

Mr.  Cameron.  Mr.  Gregg,  they  were  entitled  to  it? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Yes. 

Mr.  Cameron.  If  they  were  entitled  to  it  on  freight  in  one  category,  they 
were  entitled  to  it  in  the  other? 

391  Mr.  Gregg.  Yes. 

Ml'.  Cameron.  And  they  waived  it? 

Mr.  Gregg.  And  they  waived  it. 

Mr.  Shafer.  Because  it  was  such  an  awful  job  to  get  at  it. 

Mr.  Cameron.  You  have  no  record  of  how  much  they  waived  in  the  aggregate? 

Mr.  Shafer.  I  have  not. 

Mr.  Gregg.  We  would  have  to  check  through  all  the  freight  bills  to  find  out. 

Mr.  Shafer.  Yes ;  and  even  then  it  would  be  very  difficult  to  locate  in  some 
cases. 

Mr.  Gregg.   (Continuing  reading)  : 

"  6.  Broadway  motors. 

"  Question  1.  Will  contractor  furnish  a  report  of  transactions  with  Broadway 
Motors,  comparing  prices  charged  United  States  for  Chevrolet  cars  with  current 
prices  ? 

"  Answer.  On  May  11,  1921,  Mr.  J.  R.  Peebles,  Auditor  for  the  War  Depart- 
ment, presented  to  the  contractor  a  memorandum  alleging  that  the  du  Pont 
Engineering  Company  had  paid  invoices  of  the  Broadway  Motors  Company  on 
which  cars,  accessories,  etc.,  were  charged  at  higher  prices  than  the  prices 
charged  to  their  general  trade.  Attached  hereto  is  a  copy  of  a  report,  dated 
October  30,  1921,  marked  "  Exhibit  25  ",  submitted  by  the  Contractor  to  Major 
Farr,  Special  Representative  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War,  and  accepted 
by  him  as  a  satisfactory  reply." 

392  Mr.  Anderson.  Is  it  a  long  letter?     Would  you  wish  to  read  that?     As 
long  as  you   have  got  the  data  there?     Can   you  just   state  generally 

what  it  is? 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  will  just  siate  it  generally.  Colonel. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  should  think  it  would  be  just  as  well  to  do  so,  rather  than 
to  read  the  letter. 

Mr.  Geegg.  Mr.  Peebles  thought  that  we  had  paid  a  greater  price  for  Chevro- 
let cars  to  the  Broadway  Motors  Company  tlian  the  prices  of  the  cars  at  that 
time.  We  went  into  it,  and  we  found  out  that  the  prices  of  the  cars  were 
increased  from  time  to  time,  and  in  no  cases  did  we  pay  more  than  the  list 
prices  for  the  cars ;  in  other  words,  we  paid  the  market  price  for  the  car  at 
the  time  we  bought  it. 

Mr.  Anderson.  And  your  report  shows  that,  does  it? 

Mr.  Gregg.  And  our  report  shows  that. 

Mr.  Andehison.  Yes. 


3502  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

General  Wiliiams.  Is  that  Major  Farr  employed  by  the  Department  of 
Justice? 

Mr.  Anderson.  Yes,  sir;  in  my  office. 

General  Williams.  It  rather  occurs  to  one  to  wonder  why  he  was  not  ques- 
tioned about  this. 

Mr.  Anderson.  He  was. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  He  was.     He  was  here  at  the  last  hearing,  General. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Yes ;  he  was  here  at  the  last  hearing. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  may  say  that  I  am  satisfied  on  the  Chevrolet  question, 
and  have  been  for  some  time,  but,  inasmuch  as  at  the  previous  hearing  wit- 
nesses disagreed  with  my  view,  I  asked  the  question.     I  think  the  Chevrolet 

thing  is  all  right. 
303  Mr.   Anderson.  You  must  understand.   General,   that  it  is   not   really 

in  tlie  hands  of  the  Department  of  Justice.  It  is  before  this  committee. 
It  never  has  been  referred  to  the  Department  of  Justice.  It  is  before  this 
committee  for  survey.  Now  we  Ir.ive  made  the  inquiries,  but  all  kinds  of 
statements  have  been  made  here  and  elsewhere  as  to  the  handling  of  this  con- 
tract. Now  it  is  essential,  and  I  think  it  is  due  the  du  Pont  Company,  and 
I  assume  they  desire  that  any  of  those  things  that  come  to  our  knowledge 
should  be  brought  to  their  attention  to  the  end  that  they  may  reply  to  them. 
It  does  not  necessarily  mean  that  the  Department  of  Justice  thinks  that  they 
have  been  guilty  of  a  criminal  act  or  fraudulent  act  in  bringing  these  things 
to  th.eir  attention.  If  somebody  should  come  and  make  a  charge  against  me, 
I  would  thank  the  man  who  hears  the  charge  for  bringing  it  to  my  attention. 
And  that  is  the  purpose  of  this  hearing,  to  permit  both  sides  to  be  heard. 

I  have  nothing  to  do  with  this  investigation  personally.  I  have  not  made 
it.  But  I  do  not  think  the  men  in  the  Department  of  Justice  who  are  getting 
the  evidence  here,  or  getting  the  information  for  this  survey,  are  meaning 
by  asking  these  questions  to  imply  that  they  think  that  the  du  Pont  Company 
is  guilty  of  a  criminal  act  or  a  fraudulent  act,  but  it  is  due  the  du  Pont 
Company  that  any  question  that  conies  before  them  should  be  laid  before  the 
representatives  of  the  du  Pont  Company  to  the  end  that  this  tbing  can  be 
concluded.  And  I  explained  that  to  Mr.  Gregg  in  a  talk  that  I  had  with  him, 
that  I  wanted  to  give  him  any  Information  and  let  him  answer,  and  get  to 
the  bottom  of  it. 

394  Colonel  Hull.  Just  one  moment.  I  would  say  that  the  ordinary  prac- 
tice in  the  Army,  which  we  usually  have,  is  that  where  there  isn't  any- 
thing made  out  that  way,  that  the  records  clearly  show,  why,  we  do  not 
bring  it  up  again  for  discussion.  Now,  liere  you  have  in  this  case,  as  I  stated 
right  on  this,  thousands  and  thousands  of  items  where  the  examiners,  or  this 
man  or  that  man,  contested  the  legality  or  propriety  of  it.  and  it  has  all  been 
threshed  out.  Now.  do  you  mean  to  say  that  because  that  is  in  the  record 
that  we  have  got  to  bring  it  in  and  discuss  it? 

Mr.  Anderson.  Not  at  all ;  but  you  were  at  the  hearing  last  May,  and  you 
heard  the  people  make  the  statement  about  not  being  able  to  make  the  audit, 
and  so  forth.  Now,  the  simple  way  to  get  through  with  it  is  to  bring  the 
question  to  the  du  Pont  Company,  and  let  them  make  the  reply. 

Colonel  Hull.  Why  wouldn't  it  be  more  simple  for  the  Department  of  Jus- 
tice— they  have  investigated  it — to  stop  it  by  simply  saying:  "This  has  been 
fully  investigated.  The  answer  is  it  is  not  true,  and  here  are  the  documents 
to  prove  it ",  and  stop  taking  it  up. 

Mr.  Anderson.  But  this  case  is  not  in  the  Department  of  Justice. 

Colonel  Hull.  I  know ;  but  when  you  have  Investigated  it,  or  your  repre- 
sentatives, couldn't  that  be  done? 

Mr.  Anderson.  If  the  committee  desires  to  do  that — they  are  at  liberty  to 

stop  this  survey  whenever  they  get  reuly.     But  it  is  not  in  the  Department  of 

Justice.     It  never  has  been  referred  to  the  Department  of  Justice.     It  is 

395  not  a  case  that  we  have  got  jurisdiction  of.     It  is  simply  a  matter  of 
survey  under  this  committee. 

As  far  as  Mr.  McLane  is  concerned,  if  anything  comes  to  his  attention 
at  Nashville,  even  in  an  indirect  w;iy,  be  makes  his  OAvn  investigation  as  the 
officer  of  the  Government  in  that  district,  and  it  is  his  duty  to  do  it.  Now, 
it  may  be  that  when  he  completes  that  investigation,  or  when  these  gentlemen 
are  able  to  give  him  the  facts  on  that  point,  he  may  find  that  this  is  without 
foundation.    But  it  is  absolutely  desirable  that  this  thing  should  be  cleaned  up. 

Mr.  MoLane.  I  should  like  to  make  this  observation,  because  it  seems  to  be 
called  for,  that  there  may  be  others  outside  of  the  du  Ponts  who  have  imposed 


MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY  3503 

on  the  du  Fonts,  and  by  these  questions  I  do  not  necessarily  mean  that  the 
du  Fonts  have  done  anything  wrong,  or  that  any  member  or  any  company  asso- 
ciated with  them  has.  But  there  are  others  outside  of  tlie  du  Pout  Company, 
other  individuals. 

Colonel  IIULi,.  The  point  I  make — and  I  am  not  a  member  of  the  committee, 
I  am  simply  an  outsider  looking  in,  and  I  have  no  right  to  be  heard,  except  by 
courtesy. 

Mr.  Anderson.  You  will  be  heard  just  as  long  as  you  want  to  be,  as  far  as 
I  am  concerned. 

Colonel  Hull.  A  while  ago  I  was  listening  with  great  interest  and  found 
that  you  were  discussing  an  item  in  which  the  United  States  had  no  interest 
whatsoever,  namely,  a  stock  dividend  of  the  parent  company. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  We  wanted  to  find  out  if  the  United  States  had  any  interests, 

because  the  salaries  of  the  E.  I.   du  Pont  de  Nemours  &   Company  ofBcials, 

to  which  was  added   this  stock  bonus,  were   charged  pro   rata   to   the 

396  du    Font    Engineering   Company,    and    naturally   the    question    occurred 
to  us :  If  you  are  paying  50  percent  of  that  man's  $10,000-a-year  salary 

out  of  Government  funds,  and  you  give  him  58  shares  of  stock  as  a  bonus  at 
the  end  of  the  year,  are  you  or  are  you  not  charging  us,  the  Government,  with 
half  of  that  58  shares  of  stock?  The  answer  made  is:  "No;  we  do  not."  We 
are  very  glad  to  get  that  information.     We  cannot  get  it  in  any  other  way. 

Colonel  Hull.  Was  not  that  information  on  file  in  the  record? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  It  was  not.  It  is  available  only  on  the  books  of  the  du  Font 
Company,  and  they  were  good  enough  to  throw  them  open  to  us,  and  we  went 
down  there  last  week-end  and  ascertained  these  things. 

Colonel  Hull.  Well,  take  these  questions  that  you  asked  on  the  Chevrolet 
matter.  They  have  been  a.sked  a  couple  of  times  and  the  complete  record 
and  the  complete  answer  are  on  file. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Very  good. 

Colonel  Hull.  Why  ask  the  du  Fonts  again,  if  you  satisfied  yourself  beyond 
doubt? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  This  Board  of  Survey  is  the  judge  on  that  question.  No 
investigator  of  the  Department  of  Justice  is  a  judge  as  to  the  fairness  or  legal- 
ity of  the  charge.  The  charge  is  made  by  reputable  witnesses  to  us  that  the 
Chevrolet  cars  were  credited  to  the  Government  at  $50  above  the  market  price. 
That  was  made  by  witnesses  whose  veracity  and  honesty  of  purpose  is  unde- 
niable.    We  have  that  evidence.     AVe  find  a  record  of  the  War  Depart- 

397  ment  that  some  official  of  the  War  Department  has  found  the  price  is 
all  right.     The  opinion  of  that  official  is  satisfactory  to  the  investigator, 

but  it  is  not  fair,  it  is  not  right  to  that  investigator  to  decide  the  question,  and 
we  bring  it  up  before  this  Board  and  let  you  hear  it. 

Mr.  Anderson.  And  you  gave  that  fact  to  the  du  Font  Company,  and  the 
du  Pont  Company  knew  it.  I  assume  the  personal  responsibility  to  this  extent, 
that  wherever  a  thing  was  done  under  this  contract,  whether  it  was  done  by 
the  du  Pont  Company  or  not,  I  requested  Mr.  Carnduff  to  give  that  fact  to 
Mr.  Gregg  to  the  end  that  the  du  Pont  Company  might  answer  it  and  explain 
it  and  get  it  cleaned  up  once  for  all,  and  that  is  the  only  way  I  know  to  do  it, 
except  to  make  a  complete  survey.  Mr.  Gregg  did  not  have  to  answer  it,  but 
he  very  courteously  said  he  would  answer  every  question  we  could  ask  him.  I 
think  that  is  the  quickest  way  Vv'e  can  get  at  it. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  It  is  quite  conceivable.  Colonel  Anderson,  that  my  judgment 
on  one  of  these  points  as  to  its  fairness  or  legality  may  not  be  your  opinion 
or  Major  General  Williams'  opinion.  He  might  differ  with  my  judgment  on 
that  point ;  so  therefore  when  I  find  the  point  I  am  laying  it  before  the  Board. 

General  AVilllvms.  Insofar  as  I  am  concerned,  the  agencies  that  were  re- 
sponsible to  me  in  large  pnrt  have  passed  on  these  things,  and  by  my  official 
action,  where  it  was  necessary  for  me  to  take  it,  I  have  approved  their  action. 
Now,  then,  if  it  is  not  satisfactory  to  you.  why  go  to  it,  do  what  you 

398  want  to.     I  don't  care.     It  does  not  change  my  opinion  in  the  sliglitest. 
But  you  are  bringing  in  stuff  here  that  has  been  hashed  over  and  over 

and  over  again,  and  what  good  does  it  do? 

air.  GiiEGG.  I  would  like  to  make  this  remark  in  connection  with  the  state- 
ment you  made  a  while  au'o.  Colonel,  about  giving  us  an  onportmiity  to  put 
upon  the  record  a  reply  to  all  charges  made.  That  is  one  reason  why  I  sliduld 
like  to  have  a  list  of  all  the  charges  that  were  made  at  the  hearing  last  spring, 
for  this  reason.  I  understand  they  have  eliminated  everything  excopt  those 
things  contained  in  this  inquiry.     Now,  we  have  replied  to  that.     But  there 


3504  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

ai'e  other  charges — or,  rather,  I  say,  if  there  were  other  charges  made  at  that 
hearing,  even  though  you  eliminate  them,  then  that  record  stands  here  with  no 
reply  by  us,  no  refutation  by  us  at  all,  and  for  that  reason  I  do  think  that 
we  are  entitled  to  all  the  charges  that  were  made  against  us.  Let  us  make  a 
reply  to  them.    Let  us  have  a  complete  record. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  quite  agree  with  you  in  that.  I  have  never  taken  any 
other  view.  I  have  always  taken  the  view  that  I  would  never  proceed  against 
any  corporation  or  citizen  of  the  United  States  without  first  giving  him  a 
chance  to  reply  before  I  went  ahead.  I  have  taken  that  view  all  the  way 
through.  I  quite  agree  with  you  on  that.  I  think  probably  that  if  all  the 
charges  made  in  these  discussions  are  not  included  in  this  inquiry  that  was 
submitted  to  you,  they  can  be  included  in  it,  and  probably  eliminated,  because 
they  are  regarded  as  completely  answered  in  the  record,  or  it  is  not  necessary 
to  go  further  and  take  up  time  with  them,  or  as  not  being  of  importance 

399  sufficient  to  justify  an  inquiry. 

However,  I  will  ask  this,  that  these  gentlemen  will  sulmiit  to  you 
any  and  all  charges  that  they  can,  that  they  have,  that  they  want  informa- 
tion on,  and  give  you  a  chance  to  give  them  the  information,  and  give  them 
the  answer. 

Mr.  Gregg.  In  other  words,  Colonel,  Government  records  stand  for  a  long 
time. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Yes. 

Mi*.  Gregg.  And  I  am  not  inferring— do  not  tliink  for  one  moment  that  I  am 
inferring  that  you  are  liable  to  institute  a  proceeding  on  something  that  we 
have  not  been  given  an  opportunity  to  reply  to.  That  is  not  the  reason  I  made 
the  suggestion.  What  I  would  like  to  do  is  this :  I  would  like  to  have  our 
answer  to  all  charges  that  have  been  made.  In  other  words,  here  are  the 
charges  made  against  you :  Here  is  the  du  Pout's  reply.  That  record  will 
then  stand  in  the  War  Department  and  the  Department  of  Justice  forever 
and  a  day,  and  nobody  can  bring  it  up  later  on  and  accuse  you  or  your  repre- 
sentatives that  they  made  a  charge,  and  you  never  took  it  up,  that  is,  you 
never  tried  to  find  out  whether  it  was  true  or  false.  Now,  if  we  make  a  reply 
to  every  charge  that  has  been  made  against  us  it  not  only  completes  the  record 
on  our  side,  but  it  makes  a  complete  record  for  the  Government  as  well. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  think  so,  and  I  should  follow  that  course. 

General  Williams.  I  think  the  du  Pont  Company  should  have  a  copy  of 
the  record  of  the  preceding  meetings  so  that  they  may  see  exactly  what 

400  is  on  the  record,  all  the  statements  that  were  made,  and  the  charges 
that  were  made.     I  think  that  is  the  only  fair  thing  to  do  for  the  du 

Pont  Company. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  W^e  can  only  do  that  by  permission  of  the  Department  of 
Justice. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Yes ;  we  can  only  do  that  by  permission  of  the  Department 
of  Justice.  I  will  say  this,  that  I  was  very  much  embarrassed,  and  my  plan 
of  suggesting  this  hearing  was  entirely  modified  thirty  minutes  before  the  start 
of  the  hearing.  I  was  going  to  have  an  open  hearing  and  have  each  side 
thresh  out  each  point  right  here  before  the  Board. 

Now,  I  quite  agree  with  you,  General,  that  I  would  right  now,  if  I  was 
perfectly  free,  take  that  record  there  and  turn  it  over  to  Mr.  Haskell  or  Mr. 
Gregg  and  say,  "  Read  that  over  and  see  what  you  have  got  to  say  about  it." 
That  is  the  way  I  feel  about  it,  and  I  think  that  that  is  probably  what  it 
will  come  to.  But  I  have  got  to  get  authority  to  do  that  from  the  people  that 
I  am  acting  imder.  I  am  not  the  Department  of  Justice.  I  am  merely  acting 
for  the  Department  of  Justice  in  this  matter,  and  I  am  acting  under  instruc- 
tions. 

Now,  I  will  take  that  up,  as  I  said  this  morning,  and  endeavor  to  obtain 
the  consent  of  the  proper  authority  of  the  Department  of  Justice  to  turn 
over  that  record,  and  say,  "  Take  that  record,  Mr.  Gregg,  and  read  it  over." 
I  am  willing  to  do  that,  because  there  is  no  mystery  about  my  transactions. 
I  am  always  ready  to  do  that. 

General  Williams.  I  think  such  a  star  chamber  proceeding  as  we  had  before 
is  a  travesty  on  justice. 

Mr.   Anderson.  I   would  not  say  that.     I   would   say  that   there   are 

401  hearings  in  the  Department  of  Justice  where  you  have  to  do  that.     My 
first  disposition  was,  when  it  was  suggested  that  we  sit  here  in  secret, 

to  adjourn  it  over,  but  that  would  look  like  we  did  not  want  to  have  a  hearing, 
and  I  said,  "  Go  ahead."     But  I  would  not  say  that.  General,  because  there 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3505 

are  plenty  of  hearings  that  are  in  executive  session,  both  in  private  corpora- 
tions and  in  Government  activities. 

All  right,  Mr.  Gregg,  have  you  finished? 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  am  only  going  to  take  a  few  minutes  more.  I  want  to  say  in 
closing  that  the  items  now  in  dispute  between  the  contractor  and  the  War 
Department  as  as  follows,  on  all  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Conipany  work : 

Part  of  Mason  &  Hanger  fee $179,  239.  79 

That  was  the  decision  by  Mr.  Wainwright. 

Departmental  charges  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company 126,  071.  30 

Profit  adjustment 52,  554.  29 

Miscellaneous   expenditures 19,  545.  58 

Total 377,  430.  9S 

My  purpose  in  asking  the  Secretary  of  War  to  send  the  Mason  &  Hanger 
matter  to  the  Attorney  General  for  an  opinion  was  in  order  that  we  might 
get  an  opinion  promptly,  and  if  we  had  obtained  that  opinion  promptly,  I 
think  we  would  have  been  closed  up  on  these  cases  several  months  ago. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Well,  does  anybody  know  why  the  opinion  has  not  been 
given  ? 

Mr.  CARNDtJFF.  The  Attorney  General  did  render  an  opinion,  and  I  have 
a  copy  of  it  here. 

402  Colonel  Hull.  I  move  the  opinion  be  read. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  May  25.     But  I  do  not  believe  that  is  a  matter  that 
you  care  to  put  into  the  record  now.  Colonel. 

Colonel  Hull.  Your  imputation  there  would  be  that  the  War  Department 
is  free  to  act.     It  is  not? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  It  is  not  free  to  act  under  that  opinion;  you  are  quite  right. 

General   Williams.  What   is   the   value   of    the   decision,    then? 

Mr.  ANDE21SON.  All  right,  that  is  a  question  I  haven't  got  a  thing  in  the  world 
to  do  with.  That  is  a  question  for  the  Attorney  General.  That  is  a  question 
entirely  for  the  other  branch  of  it. 

General  Williams.  Well,  then,  we  do  not  want  to  settle  for  this  contract ; 
is  that  the  idea? 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  don't  know.  General.  I  have  nothing  whatever  to  do  with 
the  settlement  of  this  contract.  It  is  between  the  War  Department  and  the 
Department  of  Justice.  As  I  understand,  the  War  Department  requested  an 
opinion  from  the  Department  of  Justice.  They  made  a  reply.  Now,  what 
reply  has  been  made  to  that  I  do  not  know.  That  is  a  matter  that  I  haven't 
anything  to  do  with.  It  does  not  come  within  my  jurisdiction.  It  is  an  en- 
tirely different  branch  of  the  Department  that  gives  the  opinions  on  the  advice 
of  the  War  Department. 

General  Williams.  Here  we  have  had  the  Mason  &  Hanger  question  before 
the  Department  of  Justice  for  one  year  and  the  bonus  for  two  years. 
Mr.  Gregg.  The  bonus  has  not  been. 

403  General   Williams.  It  has   been   before   the   Government   officials   for 
two  years. 

Mr.  Gregg.  Yes. 

General  Williams.  If  the  Government  is  unable  to  move  in  the  matter  how 
are  we  ever  going  to  settle  the  contract? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Could  not  the  Government  move  at  this  time  by  accepting 
from  the  du  Pont  organization  the  $058,000  they  admit  they  have?  I  can  see 
no  objection  to  suggesting  to  the  contractor  that  he  now  pay  this  amount 
to  the  United  States. 

Mr.  Gregg.  Before  you  make  final  settlement  with  us? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Yes. 

Mr.  Gregg.  No  ;  we  won't  do  it.  We  might  as  well  get  that  on  the  record 
right  now.  Whenever  the  Government  makes  final  settlement  with  us  on 
these  contracts  we  will  return  the  moneys  that  are  then  due  the  United 
States. 

Mr.  Anderson.  You  admit  that  you  are  holding  more  than  is  claimed 
to  be  due? 

Mr.  Gregg.  I  don't  know  how  much  we  are  going  to  need,  Colonel.  If  this 
thing  keeps  on  going  the  way  it  has  I  don't  know  how  much  money  we  are 
going  to  need  before  these  contracts  are  closed  up,  and  I  will  not  advise  the 
du  Pont  Engineering  Company   to   return   that  money   until   the   Government 


3506  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

settles  with  us.  The  contract  of  March  23,  1918,  article  VI  (that  is  article 
VI  of  the  contract  of  March  23,  1918,  between  tlie  du  Pont  Engineering 
Company  and  the  Government),  provides: 

"  When  the  operation  of  the  plant  shall  cease,  or  upon  termination 

404  or  cancellation  of  this  contract  under  article  XV,  the  United  States 
shall  reimburse  the  contractor  for  all  costs  and  expenses  of  every  char- 
acter and  description  incurred  or  made  in,  or  cimnected  with,  the  construction, 
equipment,  or  operation  of  the  plant,  or  any  part  thereof,  including  the  cost 
of  all  labor,  freight,  and  all  apparatus  and  materials  purchased,  whether 
delivered  or  undelivered,  in  connection  with  the  construction  and  equipment 
of  the  plant  or  the  operation  or  contemplated  operation  thereof;  all  obliga- 
tions of  the  contractor  incurred  hereunder,  outstanding  at  the  date  of  such 
cessation  or  termination  or  which  may  thereafter  arise,  shall  be  assumed  by 
the  United  States  and  the  United  States  shall  save  harmless  the  contractor 
in  respect  of  any  liability  whatsoever  in  connection  therewith.  At  the  option 
of  the  United  States,  the  contractor  shall  assign  or  transfer  to  the  United 
States,  or  its  nominee,  all  contracts  then  outstanding  entered  into  by  the 
contractor  hereunder." 

And  then  it  is  further  provided  in  article  VI. 

"  If  there  shall  remain  due  the  United  States  from  the  contractor  any  sum 
theretofore  advanced  by  the  United  States  after  all  reimbursements  and  pay- 
ments outlined  in  this  article  have  been  made,  such  sum  shall  be  promptly 
returned  by  the  contractor  to  the  United  States." 

In  other  words,  whenever  the  Government  is  ready  to  make  a  settlement 

with  us,  then  we  are  perfectly  willing,  and  in  fact,  anxious  to  turn  back  the 

unused  funds  that  we  have  at  that  time,   to  the  Government,  but  I  do  not 

know  now,  and  I  could  not  estimate  now  hovs?  much  more  money  it  is  going 

to  cost  us  until  we  arrive  at  a  final  settlement. 

405  Mr.  Carnduff.  What  further  charges  could  you  have,  Mr.  Craig,  at 
this  time? 

Mr.  Craig.  I  don't  know. 

Mr.  Carndutf.  What  would  be  the  nature  of  the  charges? 

Mr.  Craig.  I  don't  know. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Would  it  not  be  possible  to  turn  in  the  undisputed  amount? 

General  Williams.  How  are  you  going  to  determine  the  undisputed  amount? 

Mr.  CarnduI'F.  The  amount,  the  balance,  the  cash  now  held  by  the  du  Pont 
Company.  There  can  be  no  further  charges.  They  can  deduct  from  that  any 
credits  they  think  they  are  entitled  to. 

General  Williams.  Well,  if  you  succeed  in  stringing  this  out  for  a  year 
or  two  there  will  be  considerable  expenditures  here. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  am  not  stringing  it  out,  General.  I  have  never  strung  it 
out ;  I  have  not  delayed  this  case  one  day. 

Mr.  Anderson.  General,  I  do  not  mean  to  criticise  the  War  Department,  and 
I  do  not  think  the  War  Department  ought  to  criticise  the  Department  of 
Justice.  We  are  trying  to  get  at  the  administration  of  the  law,  and  I  have 
not  taken  any  notice  of  the  criticism  of  the  Department  of  Justice,  but  I 
really  think  that  the  records  should  show  that  their  criticism  is,  in  my  judg- 
ment, without  the  slightest  justification.  We  are  trying  to  discharge  our  duty 
to  the  best  of  our  ability.  As  far  as  I  am  concerned,  this  case  has  never  been 
sent  to  the  Department  of  Justice,  and  it  can  be  closed  today.     It  has 

406  been  in  the  War  Department.  It  is  in  the  War  Department.  It  has 
never  been  out  of  the  War  Department.  And  the  War  Department  han- 
dles it  any  way  it  pleases.  I  hope  it  is  definitely  understood  that  I  am  here 
trying  to  help,  under  the  instructions  and  Executive  order  of  the  President,  to 
survey  a  situation  which  was  referred  to  us  by  a  joint  board  of  the  two  depart- 
ments. I  am  trying  to  carry  that  survey  on  and  make  the  investigation  in  such 
a  way  that  it  will  be  conclusive  and  final  in  the  interests  of  everyboily.  But 
this  case  has  never  been  referred  to  the  Department  of  Justice.  It  is  not 
in  the  Department  of  Justice.  It  is  not  within  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Depart- 
ment of  Justice.  And  the  War  Department  can  close  it  any  day  it  wants  to 
close  it. 

Colonel  Hull.  I  am  sorry,  Colonel,  but  the  record 

Mr.  Andkrson.  Let  tlie  record  speak  for  itself,  but  that  is  my  understanding. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  would  like  to  reply  to  the  allegation  as  to  prosecutors  for 
the  Govei-nnient  at  this  end  of  the  table.  Mr.  Cameron  and  myself  have 
been  charged  with  the  duty  of  preseriting  facts  to  this  board.  We  have  in  no 
sense  at  any  time  regarded  ourselves  as  prosecutors,  nor  giving  any  opinion 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3507 

of  the  justice  or  fairness  of  any  of  these  charges ;  we  have  merely  laid  them 
before  the  board  for  such  action  as  it  may  deem  proper.  It  is  true  Mr.  McLane 
is  the  district  attorney,  and  as  such  functions  as  prosecutor.  He  has  not  taken 
any  action  in  that  regard  in  this  case  to  date. 

Air.    Anderson.  And    he    is    giving    the    time,    at    my    I'equest,    to    the    end 
tliat  he  might  assist  us  in  getting  at  the  matters. 

407  Mr.   Gi!B»G.  I  might  state  for  the  information  of  the  board,   that  in 
June  and  July 

Mr.  Anderson.  Just  a  moment,  Mr.  Gregg.  Mr.  Caruduff,  will  you  kindly 
find  out  where  that  matter  stands  in  the  Department  of  Justice,  and  get  it 
reported  out  of  there  as  quickly  as  possible. 

Mv.  Carnduff.  The  Mason  and  Hanger  fee? 

Mr.  Anderson.  No;  whatever  information  has  been  requested  by  the  War 
Department,  get  a  reply  to  it  this  week  if  you  can,  and  then  the  War  Depart- 
ment can  close  this  case  whenever  they  get  ready. 

General  Williams.  Can  we  not  get  an  opinion  on  the  bonus  question  too,  and 
get  a  decision  on  that? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Is  it  my  instruction  to  cease  to  function  in  this  case? 

Mr.  Anderson.  No  ;  you  have  no  instructions  at  all ;  I  do  not  mean  to  give 
you  instructions  to  cease  to  function.  It  is  for  the  board  to  decide.  I  assume 
that  this  committee  will  make  its  report,  and  the  joint  board  can  do  what  they 
please  with  the  case.  I  understand  now  that  the  War  Department  has  re- 
quested the  Department  of  Justice  for  certain  opinions,  and  if  such  request 
has  been  made  will  you  follow  it  through,  find  in  wliose  hands  it  is,  and  get 
an  opinion  sent  back  over  there  so  the  War  Department  can  go  on  and  close 
the  case  up,  as  far  as  I  am  concerned. 

General  Williams.  It  seems  to  me  it  is  very  desirable,  if  the  War  Depart- 
ment has  authority  to  close  that — I  understand  that  authority  is  disputed, 
that  we  have  not  the  authority  to  close  it  up,   but  wlien  it  is  closed 

408  why  then  there  will  be  something  for  us  to  proceed  on.     It  will  be  out 
of  our  hands  any\\ay.    And  so  far  as  I  am  concerned  I  shall  be  delighted 

to  get  it  out. 

Mr.  Gregg.  And  so  would  I. 

General  Wiixiams.  Anything  that  I  have  to  do  with  it — delighted. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Well,  General,  would  not  the  opinion  of  this  Board  now  to 
be  rendered  decide  who  is  to  close  this  case? 

Mr.  Anderson.  This  is  all  that  this  Board  can  do.  Gentlemen,  there  is  a 
joint  board  of  the  War  Department  and  the  Department  of  Justice  established 
by  Executive  order  for  the  purpose  of  making  surveys  of  the  gravest  questions 
that  come  up  of  this  character.  That  joint  board  referred  this  matter  to  the 
subcommittee  consisting  of  the  Assistant  Secretary,  General  Williams  and  my- 
self, and  I  think  on  my  suggestion  it  was  decided  instead  of  having  an  audit, 
to  have  a  hearing  and  let  people  tell  what  they  knew  about  it.  And  that  has 
gone  on — been  delayed  by  my  engagements  in  other  matters — and  now  reached 
the  very  point  which  we  reached  this  evening.  All  that  this  committee  can  do 
is  to  refer  this  matter  back  to  the  joint  board  of  the  two  departments  with 
recommendations. 

But  if,  on  the  other  hand,  while  that  is  going  on  the  War  Department,  in  its 

functioning  in  its  ordinary  way,  has  requested  the  Department  of  Justice  or 

the  Attorney  General  for  an  opinion,  and  that  opinion  has  not  been  completely 

given,  then  let  us  get  that  opinion.     Then  let  the  War  Department  detev- 

409  mine  what  it  wants  to  do  with  this  case.     It  has  never  been  taken  out 
of  its  jurisdiction.     It  has  merely  been  surveyed  under  a  joint  board, 

and  the  Department  of  Justice  has  no  jurisdiction  over  it,  except  to  the  extent 
that  I  am  a  member  of  that  joint  board,  and  I  have  requested  certain  officers 
of  the  Department  of  Justice,  including  yourself,  Mr.  Carnduff,  and  Mr.  Cam- 
eron, to  get  up  any  facts  they  can  get  for  the  information  of  this  Board.  That 
is  all.  You  are  acting  at  my  request  to  get  information  for  the  board.  AVe  are 
not  here  further  than  to  make  a  survey. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  would  like  to  put  one  more  item  of  information  on  the 
record  of  this  board,  and  I  will  therefore  ask  Mr.  Cameron  to  give  an  opinion 
as  to  the  minimum  amount  of  time  and  tlie  nunimum  cost  of  an  entire  investi- 
gation and  audit  of  the  Old  Hickory  transaction,  as  far  as  he  is  able  to. 

Mr.  Cameron.  You  are  asking  me  a  big  question. 

Mr.  Carnduff.  I  know.  I  advised  you  of  that  question  this  morning.  Now 
just  give  the  Board  your  best  judgment. 


3508  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Mr.  Camekon.  To  make  an  audit  of  this? 

Mr.  Caenduff.  An  audit  and  investigation  of  the  entire  Old  Hickory  trans- 
action. 

Mr.  Camekon.  Well,  I  think  it  should  be  said  that  to  make  such  an  estimate 
we  would  have  to  exemplify  what  it  means  to  make  an  audit.  We  all  know 
that  an  audit  is  to  make  a  review.  We  know  that  a  review,  or  the  scope  and 
depth  of  the  review  is  regulated  by  conditions  precedent.  In  this  instance  I 
would  suggest  that  it  means  to  verify  the  validity  of  transactions  growing  out 
of  these  contracts.     In  my  estimation  if  good  accountants  were  asked 

410  to  make  an  audit,  under  the  conditions  precedent,  I  feel  that  it  would 
be  an  expenditure  at  the  minimum  of  about  150  to  175  thousand  dollars. 

Mr.  Cabnduff.  And  how  long  would  it  take? 

Mr.  Camekon.  It  is  all  a  mere  estimate,  but  it  could  not  be  done  without  a 
year's  work. 

General  Williams.  Your  estimate  is  more  moderate  than  ours,  I  believe. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Somebody  estimated  two  years. 

Mr.  Haskeix.  How  much  did  your  last  audit  cost? 

Major  BooTON.  $270,000  to  the  Government  alone. 

Mr.  Cameron.  Yes ;  but  we  would  have  the  advantage  of  that  audit.  An 
audit  now  would  reap  the  advantages  of  a  portion  of  the  audits  made  before, 
and  the  audit  now  would  not  go  to  the  details  that  all  previous  audits  went  to. 
That  is  the  minimum.  It  would  not  surprise  me  at  all  if  it  went  to  from 
§150,000  to  $250,000. 

General  AVilliams.  I  should  not  be  surprised  either. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Well  now,  it  was  suggested  in  the  original  inquiry  of  this 
matter  that  there  should  be  a  re-audit.  I  stated  that  I  did  not  believe  that 
the  Government  ought  to  spend  that  amount  of  money,  and  that  a  preliminary 
sui-vey,  in  my  own  judgment,  could  accomplish  the  substantial  results  of  a 
re-audit,  and  I  believe  it  was  as  a  result  of  that  suggestion  that  this  matter 
of  survey  was  taken  up  in  this  particular  case. 

Now  I  am  perfectly  willing,  if  the  committee  desires,  to  drop  that  suggestion, 
and  close  the  case  if  you  want  to  do  it,  or  to  make  a  reaudit,  if  somebody 

411  thinks  it  ought  to  be  done,  and  the  Government  consents  to  go  to  that 
expense.     I  personally  am  not  in  favor  of  it.     We  have  gotten  a  good 

deal  of  information  in  direct  response  to  direct  questions.  There  may  be  a 
good  many  other  questions  that  we  Avant  to  submit  to  the  du  Pont  Company, 
and  I  have  not  been  able  personally  to  go  into  the  matter  at  all.  And  while 
you  are  at  it,  in  my  judgment  it  would  be  wise  to  clean  it  up.  But  if  anybo^ly 
does  not  want  to  clean  it  up,  I  mean  if  you  want  to  settle  the  balance  due  on 
the  present  basis,  it  suits  me. 

Mr.  IMcLane.  I  would  like  to  ask  Mr.  Stark,  who  has  made  some  investi- 
gation at  the  plant,  what  his  idea  of  the  investigation  is,  and  what  the  amount 
of  the  recovery  would  be  from  erroneous  and  divers  charges  that  have  been 
made,  perhaps  through  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  perhaps  through 
other  companies  that  they  are  not  directly  responsible  for.  If  you  will  make  a 
statement,  Mr.  Stark? 

Mr.  Hasket.l.  Colonel,  what  would  you  expect  to  gain  by  a  re-audit?  What 
sort  of  information  would  it  disclose,  and  how  much  money  would  it  save  the 
Department   if   it   disclosed    something? 

Mr.  Anderson.  Mr.  Haskell,  I  have  no  idea.  The  case  was  referred  to  me 
on  rather  general  charges  that  there  had  been  irregularities  in  connection  with 
the  carrying  out  of  a  settlement  of  this  contract.  It  was  brought  in  such 
form,  and  with  the  suggestion  that  there  should  be  a  re-audit,  that  I  stated 
that  I  preferred  to  have  it  go  to  this  Board  for  survey  in  advance  of  a  re-audit. 
Now,  the  purpose  of  the  survey  was  really  to  find  out  whether  there 

412  were  any  such  conditions  as  demanded  a  re-audit. 

I  did  not  see  then,  and  I  cannot  see  today,  why  this  question  could 
not  be  closed  up  by  a  special  investigation  of  any  points  as  to  which  there  is 
any  donl)t,  as  I  would  do  with  you  if  I  had  a  bushiess  transaction  with  you. 
Now,  that  is  what  we  have  l)een  asking  IMr.  Gregg  to  give  us  information  on, 
and  if  there  is  any  further  information  desired  on  any  of  these  points  as 
to  which  I  don't  know,  the  thing  to  do  would  be  to  go  through  and  look  over 
your  accounts  on  that  point.  There  is  no  use  in  going  back  through  all  of 
them,  it  seems  to  me.  In  other  words,  if  95  percent  of  the  questions  have  l)een 
settled,  I  cannot  see  any  reason  for  having  a  re-audit  to  settle  5  percent,  and 
tliat  is  what  I  have  been  trying  to  avoid — the  expense  of  it.  I  am  frankly  a 
little  confused  in  tlie  case,  because  it  is  so  enormous,  and  there  have  been  so 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3509 

many  .statements  one  way  and  another.  I  have  not  been  able  to  study  the 
record.  , 

Now,  as  I  understand,  Mr.  McLane,  you  asked  Mr.  Stark  a  question  and 
you  wanted  him  to  answer  it. 

Mr.  McLane.  Yes;  on  the  question  of  what  it  will  cost,  and  Mr.  Stark's 
idea  as  to  the  amount  of  recovery  there  would  be.  I  would  like  to  hear  him 
on  that  question. 

Mr.  Stark.  I  cannot  answer  that,  Mr.  McLane.  I  liave  not  a  paper  with 
me.     We  could  get  back  consideration,  I  am  quite  sure,  on  freights  alone. 

Mr.  Gregg.  Well,  would  that  be  any  saving  to  the  Government,  Mr.  Stark? 

Mr.  Stark.  I  think  it  would. 

Mr.  Shafer.  In  what  way? 

413  Mr.  Stark.  It  doesn't  make  any  difference  to  me  whether  it  is  Gov- 
ernment or  Railroad  Administration  or  anything  else. 

Mr.  Shafp:b.  Tliat  is  just  the  point.  Ii  it  is  just  a  question  of  the  Railroad 
Administration,  the  Government,  if  you  would  make  a  recovery  it  would  not 
make  any  difference  to  the  Government. 

Mr.  Stark.  But  it  is  getting  it  out  of  a  private  organization. 

Mr.  Anderson.  How  much  would  it  cost  to  make  a  real  investigation,  Mr. 
Stark,  along  the  line  that  you  would  make? 

Mr.  Stark.  I  would  say  $100,000  or  more. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Take  about  a  year? 

Mr.  Stakk.  Practically. 

Colonel  Hill.  And  the  recovery  would  be  mainly  against  the  Railroad 
Administration? 

Mr.  Stark.  On  freight  and  on  discounts  and  overpayments. 

Mr.  Gregg.  Well,  now,  you  speak  about  discounts.  Do  I  understand  from 
that  that  you  take  each  and  every  case  where  we  do  not  take  a  discount  on  a 
bill  within  the  time? 

Mr.  Stark.  Yes ;  if  you  do  not  take  your  cash  discounts. 

Mr.   Shaker.  It  was  not  required. 

Mr.  Gregg.  Mr.  Stark,  it  would  have  been  impossible  for  us  to  do  it  during 
the  war.    And,  furthermore,  we  were  not  required  to. 

Mr.  Shafer.  We  were  not  required  to. 

Mr.  Gregg.  And  it  was  impossible  to  do  it.  We  could  not  do  it  without  the 
expenditure  of  too  great  an  amount  of  work 

414  Mr.  Stark.  And  then  the  Government  was  to  lose  all  that  cash  dis- 
count? 

Mr.  Shafer.  They  agreed  to. 

Mr.  Gregg.  The  Government  lost  money  in  a  great  many  ways  due  to  con- 
ditions that  existed  in  1918. 

Mr.  Stark.  That  is  true. 

Mr.  Gregg.  If  we  can  only  bring  ourselves  back  to  1918  and  appreciate  the 
conditions  that  existed  in  1918 !  Not  now ;  not  in  1920  or  in  1U21  or  in  1923 
or  in  1950,  but  what  we  were  up  against  in  1918. 

Mr.  Stark.  Yes. 

Mr.  Gregg.  We  did  things  at  Old  Hickory,  we  did  things  at  Penniman,  we 
did  things  in  connection  with  our  own  plants  in  1918  and  during  the  war  that 
we  would  never  think  of  doing  in  peace  times.  But  why  did  we  do  it?  Con- 
ditions were  such  that  we  had  to  get  the  product  out,  and  you  had  to  get  men 
wherever  you  could  get  them.  It  was  not  a  case  of  selecting  your  men.  You 
had  to  take  what  you  could  get.  And  day  after  day  here  in  Washington  we 
were  down  before  the  draft  board  trying  to  hold  men  to  keep  them  on  tlie 
work.  And  if  you  are  going  to  look  at  this  whole  matter  on  the  basis  of  a 
transaction  during  normal  times,  that  is  one  thing.  But  if  you  are  going  to 
look  at  it  on  the  basis  of  the  conditions  that  existed  in  1918,  and  you  do 
know  that  the  courts  take  into  consideration  such  conditions — if  you  are  going 
to  look  at  it  under  the  conditions  that  existed  in  1918  then  you  have  an  entirely 
different  .situation. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now  may  I  suggest  this,  to  conclude  this  matter :  May  I 
suggest  this  course,  that  if  there  are  any  additional  questions  or   any 

415  matters    requiring   additional    information    which    can    be    furnished    by 
the  du  Pont  Company,  that  any  gentleman  who  has  been  investigating 

any  of  those  questions  as  to  which  he  desires  information,  if  he  will  let  us 
have  it  in  the  form  of  an  inquiry  promptly — that  is  when  I  say  "  let  us  have 
it ",  I  assume  this  Board  will  pass  on  it,  and  we  will  submit  it  to  Mr.  Gregg 
of  the  du  Pont  Company,  get  his  replies  which  he  can  submit  here  to  us,  and 


3510  MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 

then  let  this  committee  report  on  this  case  to  the  Joint  Board  and  let  them 
dispose  of  it.  If  there  are  any  questions  then  remaining  to  be  investigated, 
or  as  to  which  they  are  not  satisfied,  they  can  either  conclude  the  matter  and 
file  it,  or  send  it  to  the  Department  of  Justice  to  complete  that  investigation 
of  those  specific  points.  But  I  see  no  reason  why  the  matter  should  not  be 
pretty  promptly  concluded,  so  far  as  the  settlement  of  this  contract  is  con- 
cerned, if  we  can  get  the  information  in  that  form.  And  I  do  not  see  any 
reason  why  we  should  not. 

Now,  when  it  conies  to  other  phases  of  the  matter  which  are  not  before  this 
committee  for  survey,  why  we  do  not  want  to  delay  our  disposition  of  this 
question  for  other  things. 

Could  that  be  done,  do  you  think,  Mr.  McLane,  or  Mr.  Carnduff?  Could 
you  submit  any  questions  for  additional  information  that  you  desire  from 
these  gentlemen? 

Mr.  Cabnduff.  I  have  no  additional  questions  to  submit.  I  have  taken  the 
matter  up  at  Wilmington  last  Friday  with  counsel  and  accountants  of  the 
contractor,  in  company  with  Mr.  Cameron,  and  I  have  no  more  questions  to 
ask  at  this  time,  no  more  information  to  request,  and  as  far  as  the  War 
Transjictions  Section  is  concerned,  which  excludes  the  district  attorney  at 
Nashville 

416  Mr.  Anderson.  Of  course  his  function  is  entirely  different. 

Mr.  Carnduff  (continuing).  His  being  an  entirely  different  function — 
I  am  entirely  ready  now  to  submit  this  matter  to  the  Board  for  its  opinion, 
judgment,  and  directions.  I  am  very  anxious  to  see  the  $958,000  now  returned 
to  the  United  States,  and  the  expense  of  the  contractor  at  Wilmington,  which 
I  am  told  is  approximately  $700  per  month,  discontinued  immediately. 

General  Williams.  If  we  close  the  case  we  will  discontinue  all  expense, 
will  we? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  Yes,  sir. 

Mr.  Gregg.  And  nobody  is  any  more  anxious  to  do  that  than  the  du  Pout 
Engineering  Company. 

Mr.  McLane.  If  this  committee  will  hear  me  on  that  one  question.  It  has 
been  suggested  here,  and  the  fact  is  tliat  the  Department  has  been  criticized 
because  of  investigations  of  certain  lines  that  apparently  would  disclose 
irregularities.  When  we  were  here  in  May  I  insisted  then  that  an  investigation 
along  special  lines  be  made.  Mr.  Carnduff,  Mr.  Cameron  and  I  signed  a  recom- 
mendation to  that  effect.  It  has  not  been  done,  because  this  committee  did 
not  act  and  did  not  authorize  it.  I  insist,  and  I  state  here  publicly  now  that 
there  are  certain  lines  that  lead  to  fraud  in  my  opinion.  Those  lines  I  cannot 
tell  you  now  because  I  have  no  means  of  making  an  investigation  as  district 
attorney.    The  only  power  is  this  Board.     So  I  am  informed. 

General  Williams.  Well,  haven't  you  the  authority  as  district  attorney  to 
investigate  any  of  this? 

417  Mr.  McLank.  I  have  not ;  no,  sir. 

General  Williams.  You  have  not  the  authority? 

Mr.  McLane.  I  have  no  authority.  I  have  no  way  of  making  it.  It  is 
purely  here,  and  it  is  for  that  reason  that  I  have  appeared  before  you.  I 
was  criticized  when  I  came  here  before  because  of  that  thing.  Now  I  am 
here  now  saying  that  there  are  certain  things,  in  my  opinion,  that  lead  to 
frauds,  not  perhaps  by  the  du  Pont  Company,  but  by  other  people  who  did 
business  with  them  and  perpetrated  frauds  upon  them.  We  are  daily  in 
my  district  prosecuting  small  frauds  and  expending  large  sums  of  money  in 
the  prosecuting  of  criminal  acts.  I  do  not  now  charge  that  the  du  Pont 
Company  is  responsible  for  those  frauds,  but  I  say  someone  has  perpetrated 
the  frauds,  and  this  Department  has  paid  for  them. 

Colonel  Hull.  I  want  to  say  just  a  couple  of  words  on  the  record,  if  I  may, 
and  that  is  that  as  a  member  of  the  Joint  Board  of  Survey  I  was  entirely 
in  accord  with  the  statement  of  Colonel  Anderson  that  the  purpose  of  this 
survey  was  to  get  down  to  specific  cases,  and  probe  the  work  that  has  been 
done  heretofore,  and  discover  whether  additional  expense  should  be  made  by 
the  Government  to  try  to  run  down  frauds  or  recover  money,  or  to  punish 
any  person  that  has  been  guilty  of  any  crime.  We,  having  had  a  re-audit 
at  an  expense  to  the  Government  of  over  $300,000,  taking  up  several  .vears, 
it  was  not  wise  or  it  was  not  good  administration  on  the  part  of  the  Govern- 
ment to  audit  out  of  hand  on  the  same  old  charges  coming  up,  many  of  them 
that  had  been  investigated  in  the  past  three  years — to  order  again  an 

418  expenditure  of  $300,000  and   the   expenditure  of  a  year's   time.     And 
therefore,  instead  of  having  a  re-audit,  that  we  would  have  a  survey  and 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3511 

that  specific  items  would  be  brought  up,  and  the  past  work  would  be  tested. 
AS  I  understood  at  the  closing  of  the  last  hearing  in  May,  these  specific  items 
that  had  come  to  the  attention  of  the  Department  of  Justice  would  be  investi- 
gated, and  they  would  go  to  the  vouchers  and  find  out  whether  you  had  been 
correctly  or  incorrectly  informed  as  to  what  had  taken  place.  Today  is  the 
first  time  that  I  have  heard  that  three  of  you  had  signed  a  report  and 
requested  authority  from  the  Joint  Board  of  Survey  to  go  ahead  in  getting 
up  those  specific  items  and  in  testing  tliem.  That  was  not  brought  to  the  Joint 
Board.  The  understanding  was  that  if  there  was  anything  specific  you  would 
report  it,  and  the  War  Department  stood  ready  to  help  .you,  and  the  du  Fonts 
Avould  open   the  books. 

Mr.  McLanb.  If  I  remember  right  you  are  incorrect  as  to  that,  but  it  was 
understood  that  the  Department  had  stated  that  it  would  not  proceed  along 
the  line  that  you  suggest,  and  authorized  and  instructed  Cohmel  Anderson 
not  to  proceed  along  tliat  line,  and  that  was  the  cause  of  the  hearing  breaking 
up  other  than  was  the  plan.     That  is  my  understanding. 

Mr.  Caknduff.  Mr.  McLane,  we  did  not  sign  any  report  to  the  Joint  Board. 
We  never  made  any  report. 

Mr.  Andekson.  No.  Well,  hasn't  this  investigation  covered  the  questions 
submitted  in  your  report,  your  recommendations  to  the  Department? 

Mr.    Carnduff.  They    have    been    investigated.     They    have   not   been 

419  audited.     The  vouchers  have  not  been  examined.     We  have  no  corps  of 
accountants   to  do  that  with  tliem  until  we  are  authorized  to  employ 

them. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Well,  I  think  we  can  probably  get  that  situation  cleared 
up  by  going  to  the  record  and  going  over  it.  In  any  event,  Mr.  Gregg  has 
submitted  answers  now  to  the  questions  submitted  by  you;  has  he  not? 

Mr.   Carnduff.  He  has. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Now,  if  there  are  any  other  questions  or  any  other  points 
or  charges  made  in  the  testimony  taken  here  in  May,  and  assuming  that  I 
cannot  get  authority  to  turn  over  a  copy  of  that  testimony  to  the  du  Pont 
Company,  as  stated,  would  you  go  over  that,  and  if  there  are  any  additional 
charges  make  a  list  of  them  so  as  to  submit  them? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  That  would  be  a  useless  procedure.  Colonel.  We  have  already 
carefully  gone  over  the  testimony  of  the  previous  hearing  of  this  Board,  and 
have  collected  the  principal  items  upon  which  we  desire  information,  and  have 
submitted  them  in  the  questionnaire  answered  today.  I  have  no  further  ques- 
tions on  the  part  of  your  Section,  the  War  Transactions  Section,  to  ask  of  Mr. 
Gregg.  I  have  not  had  the  opportunity  as  yet  of  reading  his  answers  and 
exhibits  which  were  filed  today.  But  I  understand  thoroughly  and  fully  that 
he  has  answered  all  our  questions  presenting  the  contractor's  side.  I  have 
no  further  questions  to  ask,  no  other  testimony  to  submit  to  this  Board,  and 
I  am  willing  to  rest. 

Mr.  Camekon.  May  I  say  a  word?     I  will  only  take  a  short  time.     I  am 

going  to  earnestly  try  to  throw  some  light  on  this  as  I  see  it.     Charges  were 

made    that   grave   overpayments    were   made    in    freights.     Only    a   few 

420  items  were  described  and  handed  to  the  du  Pont  Company's  representa- 
tives.    The    du   Pont    Company's   representatives   reply    and    say,    "  You 

are  in  error.  We  did  not  pay  those  freights.  We  are  going  to  submit  vouchers, 
and  we  are  going  to  show  you  that  we  did  not  pay  the  freights  as  you  state 
at  these  excess  weights." 

Mr.  Grexjq.  No. 

Mr.  Cameron.  You  at  least  say  that  your  vouchers  show  that  they  were  not 
the  weights. 

Mr.  Gregg.  That  they  were  not  the  weights.  What  these  questions  that  you 
submitted  brought  out  and  indicated  was  that  we  had  paid  for  more  shav- 
ings and  linters  than  we  got. 

Mr.  Cameron.  They  naturally  would.  Now,  there  must  be  some  little  fur- 
ther work  upon  the  part  of  us  who  are  assigned  to  this  work  to  make  some 
comparisons,  and  to  take  up  these  instances  and  see  if  we  can  find  what  they 
actually  paid  by  getting  the  checks  and  vouchers.  But  will  it  not  resolve 
itself  to  the  point  of  whether  or  not  these  gentlemen  are  merely  submitting 
these  five  or  six  or  ten  instances  with  respect  to  the  freights,  or  is  it  to  be 
understood  that  this  is  a  mere  sample  that  we  are  showing  you,  and  that  we 
feel — til  at  the  gentlemen  who  ai-e  bringing  these  charges,  or  bringing  these 
instances,  vre  will  call  it,  of  errors  to  your  attention,  feel  thiit  we  should 
make  a  complete  audit,  or  that  we  should  run  down  those  few  points.     And 


3512  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

do  they  indicate  tliat  we  should  make  a  complete  audit  of  the  entire  du  Pont 

transactions  by  virtue  of  these  transactions?     I  take  it,  Colonel  Anderson,  that 

that  will   be   the   issue  finally,   will   it   not,   before   the  joint   board?     And    I 

would  like  to  get  from  Mr.  McLane  while  he  is  here — I  do  not  have 

421  the  opportunity  to  interview  him  often — a  statement  as  to  whether  it 
is  the  idea  that  these  are  mere  samples,  and  that  these  charges  really 

made  to  Mr.  McLane  mean  tii;it  there  were  grave  manipulations  in  freiglit 
rates,  and  that  we  are  handing  you  these  few  samples? 

Mr.  McLane.  Yes. 

Mr.  Cameron.  And  do  I  understand,  Mr.  McLane,  that  you  feel 

Mr.  McLanb  (interposing).  There  are  many  charges.  These  are  only  one 
or  two  isolated  instances  just  to  show  you  what  we  expect.  There  are  many 
charges  of  that  nature,  many  bills  and  waybills  that  we  examined  leading 
into  the  thousands. 

Mr.  Camehon.  Now  in  sunmiing  up,  Colonel  Anderson,  you  are  shown  by  the 
du  Pont  Company   that  there  are  over  a  million  freight  bills. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Yes. 

Mr.  Cameron.  Therefore  we  are  faced  with  the  question  as  to  whether  or 
not  we  are  to  make  a  reaudit  of  tiie  million  freight  bills  upon  the  evidence 
presented. 

Mr.  Anderson.  My  impression  ofE-hand  would  be  that  in  view  of  the  fact 
that  duriijg  tliis  period  the  Government  was  operating  the  railroads,  unless  it 
were  shown  tliat  the  Government  sustained  an  actual  loss  as  a  Government, 
and  not  one  department  as  against  another,  1  would  not  bother  with  it  one 
way  or  another.     That  would  be  my  opinion. 

Colonel  Hull.  Unless  you  can  prove  fraud. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Yes. 

Mr.    McLane.  It   has    been    shown    that   five   percent   was   paid   upon 

422  freight    bills,    upon    overcharges,    and    those   construction    bills    are    the 
large  freight  bills  that  we  complain  about. 

Mr.  ANDEaisoN.  That  may  involve  a  very  serious  question. 

Mr.  McLane.  Novv  five  percent  of  that,  at  least,  was  overpaid.  Now  we 
charge  that  there  are  gross  frauds  in  the  manipulation  of  those  freight  bills. 
Whenever  a  53-cent  freight  bill  from  Birmingham,  Ahibama,  to  Nashville, 
Tennessee,  makes  $3.53,  and  when  there  are  shipments  being  made  daily  by 
the  trainloads,  running  all  the  time,  almost  continually,  then  the  amount  of 
freight  goes  into  the  millions  of  dollars. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Yes. 

Mr.  McLane.  Now,  when  that  is  shown,  why  $3  extra  would  not  be  added 
to  freight  bills  unless  some  man  was  profiting  by  it. 

General  Wililiams.  Does  your  evidence  indicate  that  that  was  a  general 
practice? 

Mr.  McLane.  I  would  say  75  percent  of  the  freight  bills  from  Birmingham, 
Alabama,  to  Nashville,  Tennessee,  I  have  been  told. 

General  Williams.  That  they  received  that  kind  of  a  raise? 

Mr.  McLane.  Yes,  sir.  And  Memphis  the  same  way,  on  cotton  linters. 
There  were  large  shipments  from  Memphis,  and  large  shipments  from  the  South 
of  lumber,  and  Birmingham  being  the  central  point,  there  were  large  ship- 
ments of  iron  and  coal  and  other  things.     Those  items  are  there  to  speak 

423  for  themselves.     Now  I  say  that  to  pass  that  kind  of  investigation  and 
say,  "  Well,  it  is  being  taken  from  one  hand  and  put  into  the  other  ", 

without  seeing  why  those  charges  are  made — the  Government  is  doing  itself 
quite  an  injustice. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  quite  agree  with  that  view,  where  apparently  there  has  been 
a  raising  of  fr-eight  bills.  Probably  Ijy  railway  agents.  There  was  a  great  deal 
of  that  kind  of  thing  during  the  war.  Now,  Mr.  Gregg  has  explained  that  they 
did  not  undertake  to  check  tlie  rate  of  charge,  but  paid  on  sight  draft.  Now,  it 
might  be  that  tbat  was  a  fraud  operated,  and  somebody  returned  53  cents  to 
the  Railroad  Administi-atlon,  collected  $3.53  from  the  du  Pont  Company,  and 
put  the  $3  in  their  pocket.  It  may  be  something  of  that  kind  hajjpened,  and 
it  may  be  something  was  lost  on  that. 

Ml".  McLane.  I  know  one  railroad  official  who  is  well  up  on  freight  opera- 
tions, who  has  offered  to  make  an  investigation  on  one  percent  of  the  recovery 
to  the  Government.  That  he  would  put  in  his  own  force.  And  he  would  make 
it  free  of  charge  to  the  Government  if  they  would  give  him  one  percent  of  the 
recovery. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3513 

Mr.  Haskell.  Yes;  but  who  would  he  recover  it  from?     He  would  recover 
it  from  the  Government. 
Mr.  Andekson.  No. 
Mr.  H.vsKELL.  Under  this  contract. 

Mr.  Andekson.  No ;  it  would  be  this  way,  Mr.  Haskell 

Mr.  McLane  (interposing).  And  I  do  not  make  that  proposition. 

Mr.  Anderson    (continuing).  The  dn   Pont   Company   may   have   paid 

424  money  which  never  went  to  the  Government  at  all.     For  instance,  suppose 
an  agent  were  to  raise  the  rate  and  had  drawn  on  you  for  tlie  money, 

and  you  paid  $3.53,  when  the  rate  was  53  cents,  and  he  put  the  $3  in  his  pocket. 

Mv.  Haskell.  Then  you  have  to  go  after  the  agent,  not  the  company. 

Mr.  Andekson.  Yes ;  but  you  would  have  to  go  after  somebody.  There  was 
a  fraud,  undoubtedly,  if  such  a  condition  existed.  If  the  company  had  no  way 
of  checking  it,  and  according  to  what  Mr.  Gregg  stated  there  was  not  any  way, 
there  would  be  no  responsibility  on  the  company,  but  it  would  be  a  question  of 
locating  who  got  the  money. 

Colonel  Hull.  May  I  say  a  vv'ord? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Just  a  moment,  please.  I  was  going  to  saj^  this.  It  is  a  question 
of  some  agent  down  there  getting  graft  and  all  that  sort  of  thing.  I  do  not 
see  why  that  should  hold  up  the  closing  of  the  contracts  between  the  Government 
and  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company.  You  could  go  after  that  fellow  any 
time. 

Mr.  Caknduff.  I  agree  with  you  precisely.     Turn  over  the  money. 

jMr.  Gregg.  Well,  wlien  you  settle  with  us ;  yes. 

Mr.  Shafer.  About  this  freiglit  situation.  The  Government  themselves 
checked  and  audited  the  freight  bills  in  the  Wilmington  office ;  that  is,  the 
Government's  auditors  themselves  took  them  over  and  checked  them. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Did  they  clieck  them  for  rates? 

Mr.  Shafer.  It  is  none  of  my  business  what  they  checked  them  for.  They 
checked  them  for  everything.     They  kept  them  for  months. 

425  Mr.  McLane.  That  is  what  I  am  asking,  an  investigation  to  see  what 
they  did  do. 

Mr.  Shafepv.  I  want  to  say  something  else.  That  Peebles,  who  was  the  con- 
tracting officer,  spent  a  year  and  a  half,  I  think,  checking  freight  bills  in  the 
Wilmington  office,  in  addition  to  the  audit  they  had  previously  gone  through. 

Mr.  McLa  ne.  Yes ;  I  remember  Peebles'  testimony,  and  he  said  he  checked 
one  voucher  out  of  ten. 

Mr.  Shafer.  I  don't  know  how  many  he  checked,  Mr.  McLane. 

Mr.  McLane..  He  testified  he  checked  one  voucher  out  of  ten. 

Mr.  Shafer.  He  had  them  all  to  check. 

General  Williams.  What  proportion  did  you  check,  Mr.  McLane? 

Mr.  Shafeir.  What  I  wanted  to  say  was  this,  that  all  operating  freight  bills 
were  carefully  checked  by  our  traffic  department  for  rate  overcharges,  and  any 
rate  overcharge  that  we  found,  irrespective  of  any  audit  which  the  Government 
has  made,  we  made  claim  for,  and  collected  wherever  such  claims  were  col- 
lectible. 

General  Williams.  I  was  wondering  what  proportion  of  all  the  freight  bills 
you  have  checked  that  leads  you  to  believe  that  75  percent  are  fraudulent? 

Mr.  ISIcLane.  I  have  not.  I  have  Mr.  Peebles'  results  and  the  results  of  such 
men  whose  investigation  I  rely  upon.  I  have  not  seen  one  voucher,  I  don't 
think. 

Colonel  Hull.  I  want  to  ask  this  question.  Colonel  Anderson.     If  you  have 

got  a  thousand  cases  where  the  rate  has  been  raised  from  53  cents  to  $3.53, 

you  have  got  pretty  near  enough  to  go  ahead  and  determine  who  are  the 

426  people  that  could  {oossibly  profit  by  it,  as  well  as  if  you  had  a  check  up 
of  a  million. 

Mr.  McLanb.  That  is  true. 

Mr.  Shafer.  We  did  not  check  up  the  agents. 

Mr.  ]McLane.  I  haven't  got  the  power  to  go  outside  of  my  district.  The  books 
and  papers  are  in  Wilmington.     It  is  up  to  you  gentlemen  of  this  Board. 

Colonel  Hull.  Last  May  I  said  emphatically  to  you  that  if  there  was  any 
information  you  wanted  out  of  the  vouchers,  if  you  would  let  me  know  I  would 
get  it  for  you. 

Mr.  McLane.  I  understand  that.  I  have  no  auditing  force  at  all,  and  any 
auditing  force  that  is  sent  to  me  has  to  be  from  the  Department  of  Justice. 
Now,  the  Department  of  Justice  says,  "  Wait  until  this  Board  acts." 


3514  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Colonel  HiTLL.  If  you  have  got  a  thousand  cases  that  have  been  raised  from 
53  cents  to  $3.53,  those  can  be  verified  very  promptly  from  the  Government 
vouchers  on  hand,  and  you  can  determine  from  1,000  instances  as  well  as  you 
could  from  a  million  what  freight  agents  or  what  people  got  that  graft.  A 
thousand  instances  is  as  much  as  you  can  expect  to  get  in  any  ease. 

Mr.  McLane.  I  came  here  to  this  Board  and  to  this  Department  for  the 
purpose  of  having  them  obtain  it,  asking  that  it  be  done  some  time  in  May. 

Mr.  Shafek.  Mr.  McLane  says  that  in  about  75  percent  of  the  cases  there  are 

overcharges.     Now,  if  that  is  true,  and  if  there  are  75  percent  of  cases  out  of 

a  million  with   an  overcharge,   it  would  be   an   enormous   amount   of  money, 

and  it  seems  to  me  it  would  be  a  great  reflection  on  the  Government 

427  auditors  that  checked  them  to  let  them  go  through.     The  Government 
auditors  who  assumed  the  responsibility  for  auditing  the  freight  bills. 

General  Williams.  What  assurance  have  we  that  the  next  auditors  will  be 
any  better? 

Mr.  McLane.  I  believe  you  assume  responsibility  for  issuing  the  order  for 
ten  percent. 

General  Williams.  Yes ;  I  took  that  responsibility. 

Mr.  McLane.  I  understood  so. 

Mr.  Haskell.  Granting  for  the  sake  of  argument  that  that  condition  did 
exist,  closing  this  contract  would  not  close  the  door  for  a  proceeding  against 
anybody  who  committed  a  fraud,  or  anybody  who  got  any  graft.  You  could 
do  that  after  the  contract  was  closed,  or  any  time  within  ten  years  you  find 
out  about  it;  isn't  tliat  right? 

Mr.  Carnduff.  That  is  why  I  suggest  that  you  return  to  the  Government  the 
amount  of  money  that  you  have  admitted  that  you  have. 

Mr.  Gregg.  You  say  "  return  it " ;  but  you  say,  "  no ;  we  won't  settle  the 
contracts."     If  we  return  the  money,  why,  then,  won't  you  settle  the  case? 

INIr.  Carndubt.  What  will  there  be  to  settle? 

Mr.  Gregg.  Well,  we  have  got  to  have  a  settlement  contract  here.  We  have 
had  it  in  every  case  that  we  have  with  the  Government. 

Mr.  Carnduif.  Why  not  return  this  money  in  the  interim,  and  any  settle- 
ment can  then  be  adjusted? 

Mr.  Gregg.  No  ;  we  won't  do  that.  Major. 

Mr.  Haskell.  If  we  were  willing  to  do  that  we  would  not  have  needed  any 
advance  in  the  first  place. 

428  Major  Booton.  I  would  like  to  inquire  the  nature  of  the  vouchers  that 
have  been  found  that  have  shown  these  overcharges.     Are  they  the  rail- 
road-company vouchers,  or  the  vouchers  in  the  plant? 

Mr.  Stark.  I  couldn't  tell  you  that,  sir.     I  haven't  seen  those  vouchers. 

Major  Booton.  Because  if  they  are  we  can  very  easily  establish  where  they 
were  obtained  from  and  check  them  with  the  corresponding  ones,  of  which  there 
will  be  any  number.  It  would  be  a  very  simple  matter  even  by  correspondence 
to  get  a  check  on  them,  and  as  a  matter  of  fact  I  will  volunteer  to  handle  the 
matter  and  straighten  them  out.  If  I  can  have  a  few  samples  I  will  find  out 
whether  they  check  out  or  not. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Well,  suppose  we  leave  it  that  way.  I  have  got  a  pretty 
busy  day  tomorrow,  but  I  v/ant  to  get  this  case  disposed  of.  Will  you  be 
here  tomorrow,  Mr.  McLane? 

Mr.  McLane.  Yes. 

Mr.  Anderson.  I  would  like  to  have  you  stay.  Whatever  we  are  going  to 
do  I  want  to  get  it  started  now  and  do  it  and  finish  it.  And  I  mean  by  that, 
even  though  it  does  not  relate  to  the  immediate  matter  before  this  commitee, 
when  this  record  is  written  up  we  can  meet  and  make  our  report,  but  I  would 
like  to  get  this  whole  thing  cleaned  up  and  if  you  could  be  here  tomorrow,  I 
can  telephone  you.  Major  Booton,  as  you  are  familiar  with  the  method  of 
handling,  and  get  you  to  come  over  there  to  see  what  is  necessary,  and  where 
to  get  it. 

Major  Booton.  I  will  be  very  glad  to,  if  I  can  see  where  the  documents 
are. 

429  Mr.  Anderson.  Suppose  we  let  it  stand  that  way.  General,  and  I  sug- 
gest that  we  adjourn  this  hearing  with  the  understanding  that 

Mr.  McLane.  Those  records  are  not  available. 

Mr.  Andekson.  They  are  not  here? 

Mr.  McLane.  No,  sir. 

Mr.  Anderson.  When  (ould  you  get  them  up  here,  do  you  think? 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  3515 

Mr.  McLane.  I  don't  know.  I  think  you  had  better  send  a  man  for  them. 
The  records  are  so  scattered,  as  I  understand  it,  and  a  man  would  have  to  make 
that  investigation. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Well,  I  will  talk  that  over  with  you  tomorrow,  and  make  some 
plan  to  get  that  end  of  it  cleaned  up. 

Mr.  McLane.  I  want  to  get  on  record  right  here  before  this  adjournment 
that  I  earnestly  insist  that  certain  special  lines  of  investigation  be  made.  I 
want  to  have  it  appear  in  this  record. 

Mr.  Anderson.  What  lines? 

Mr.  McLane.  There  are  special  lines  that  it  would  seem  almost  criminal 
negligence  to  fail  to  investigate.  And  in  justice  to  the  du  Fonts,  who  are  held 
in  high  esteem  in  my  community,  those  investigations  should  be  made  as  to 
them.  In  justice  to  the  District  Attorney,  who  believes  that  certain  wrongs 
have  been  perpetrated  either  by  the  du  Fonts  or  upon  the  du  Fonts,  some  in- 
vestigation should  be  made.  If  they  are  patriotic,  if  they  have  done  the 
things  here  to  assist  the  Government  in  its  time  of  need,  they  shnukl  have 

430  a  clean  slate.     They  should  go  forth  and  let  the  people  see  wluit  this 
organization   of   men   has    done.     If   there   is   something   wrong    in    the 

record,  and  the  recovery  can  be  had  for  the  Government  either  from  the  du 
Fonts  or  from  other  people,  if  there  are  criminals  who  should  be  prosecuted 
in  the  courts,  then  it  should  cunie  out  here.  1  want  to  go  on  record  as  asking 
and  rt'conunending  that  investigation  be  made  along  special  lines  to  be  de- 
termined, if  not  a  whole  investigation. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Well,  now,  Mr.  McLane,  can  you  now  state,  or  would  you 
put  down  in  a  memorandum  for  this  committee  the  lines  of  investigation  that 
you  would  reconnuend?     The  specific  things? 

Mr.  McLane.  I  would  not  like  to  do  it  just  offhand,  but  I  will  submit  a 
recommendation  to  this  committee. 

Mr.  Anderson.  Will  you  do  it? 

Mr.  MoLane.  I  would  be  very  glad  to  do  it. 

Mr.  Andeibson.  And  then  if  it  is  within  the  jurisdiction  of  the  committee 
we  will  do  it.  And  if  not,  I  will  take  it  up  with  other  authorities  to  have  it 
done.  I  quite  agree  with  the  principles  you  have  stated.  It  is  due  the  Govern- 
ment, it  is  due  the  du  Fonts,  it  is  due  the  administration  of  justice,  that  where 
there  are  serious  questions  involved  tliey  should  be  sifted  to  the  end,  no  matter 
who  they  may  involve,  and  I  am  sure  no  citizen  of  the  United  States  objects 
to  that.  Now  if  this  coriimittee's  jurisdiction  does  not  go  that  far — and  I  will 
discuss  that  with  General  Williams  and  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  War  when 
I  get  your  memorandum,  then  I  will  arrange  through  some  other  branch  of  the 
Depiirtment  of  Justice  to  have  that  investigation  made. 

Mr.  McLane.  That  is  very  good,  and  no  more  than  that  could  I  ask. 

431  Mr.  Anderson.  I  will  clean  it  up  if  I  can  do  it  myself.     Ycu  do  not 
mind    being   investigated,    do    you? 

Mr.  Haskell.  No,  sir ;  that  is  what  I  have  asked  for. 

Mr.  Gkegg.  Just  two  points.  It  will  only  take  me  about  two  minutes,  and 
I  want  to  do  this  before  we  close.  I  want  to  state  that  in  June  and  July 
1920,  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  returned  to  the  Governmeiit  in  cash 
unused    funds   totalling   $3,324,497.77. 

At  that  time  we  retained  approximately  $600,000  by  agreement  with  the  War 
Department  to  take  care  of  current  expenses.  Now  there  have  been  some  ac- 
cumulations to  that  which  have  brought  it  up  to  $950,000. 

Now,  as  to  the  pi'ofits  that  we  made  on  this  work.  I  understand  it  is  claimed 
that  we  made  enormous  profits  out  of  the  Government. 

On  Old  Hickory  coftstruction  we  made  a  profit  of  $1. 

On  Fenniman  construction  we  made  a  profit  of  $1. 

On  the  Ives  construction  we  did  not  get  the  $1  because  we  never  completed 
the  construction  of  the  plant. 

On  Old  Hickory  operation  we  made  a  total  profit  of  $2,013,713.05. 

On  Fenniman  operation  we  made  $400,408.32. 

On  Seven  Fines  operation  we  made  $120,462.91. 

On  Tnllytown  operation   we  made  $188,991.40. 

Or  a  total  of  $2,723,577.68  profit  on  approximately  $129,000,000  worth  of  work. 

We  asreed  to  accept  disallowances  in  the  interest  of  settlement  of 
$103,405.87. 

432  Our  profits  prior  to  the  deduction  of  Federal  taxes  were  $2,031,658.23. 
Deducting  a  direct  expense  of  $54,923.96  leaves  profits  prior  to  deduc- 
tion  of  taxes   cf  $2,576,734.27. 

83876— 35— PT  14 23 


3516  MUNITIONS  INDUSTRY 

Federal   taxes  paid,   $1,490,013.19. 
Estimated  Federal  taxes  still  i)a.vable,  $033,215.87. 
Or  a  total  of  Federal  taxes  of  $2,123,229.06. 
Net   profit,   $453,505.21. 
Dividends  paid,  $400,000. 

Undivided  protils  as  of  October  31,  1923,  $53,505.21. 

(Thereupon,  at  6  o'clock  p.  ni.,  the  hearing  was  adjourned  subject  to  the  call 
of  the  Chair.) 


The  following  brief  was  submitted  to  the  committee  by  Mr.  Gregg 
in  connection  with  Exhibit  No.  1190.     See  text,  page  3250. 

Wilmington,   Del.,   Ajn-il  26,  1935. 
Senator  Gekald  P.  Nye, 

Chairtrian  Special  Committee  Investigating  the  Munitions  Industr;j, 

United  States  Senate,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Dear  Senatbb  Nye:  This  is  in  further  reference  to  the  report  of  September 
14,  1923,  by  George  W.  Storck,  expert  bank  accountant  to  the  Assistant  At- 
torney General,  relative  to  the  Old  Hickory  Powder  Plant,  which  was  intro- 
duced by  Mr.  Hiss  at  the  conniiittee's  hearing  of  December  14th  and  included 
as  exhibit  no.  1190  in  the  record  of  your  committee.  You  will  no  doubt  recall 
my  testimony  that  I  had  never  theretofore  seen  this  memorandum,  nor  any 
part  of  it.  and  my  request,  which  apparently  had  the  connnittee's  approval, 
that  I  he  permitted  to  examine  the  document  and  file  a  statement  for  in- 
clusion in  the  record  in  answer  to  Mr.  Storck's  charges.  (Typewritten  record, 
pages  5268,  5280-1,  5302,  and  5384.) 

Ever  since  my  return  to  Wilmington  near  the  end  of  December,  the  work 
of  investigation  necessary  for  this  statement  has  been  actively  in  progress. 
As  you  will  readily  appreciate,  the  wide  range  of  the  accusations  made  or 
implied  in  Mr.  Storck's  memorandum,  the  long  time  which  has  elapsed  since 
the  acts  in  question  took  place,  and  the  fact  that  from  deaths  and  otherwise 
a  number  of  the  principals  are  no  longer  available,  have  made  it  a  matter  of 
considerable  difficulty,  requiring  a  great  amount  of  searching  of  old  records 
and  redetermination  of  the  exact  significance  and  relationship  of  documents 
and  entries  after  the  lapse  of  a  period  of  years. 

Mr.  Storck's  report  was  made  several  years  after  the  occurrences  and  acts 
in  question.  It  expressly  describes  the  investigation  as  "  preliminary."  That 
it  was  also  entirely  superficial,  and  that  he  was  surprisingly  reckless  and  im- 
restrained,  will  be  apparent  from  even  a  cursory  examination  of  the  docu- 
ment itself.  Mere  suspicion  is  stated  as  accusation;  local  gossip  is  translated 
into  definite  charges  of  criminal  wrongdoing;  and  the  memorandum  is  full 
of  manifest  misunderstandings  and  plain  misstatements  of  fact. 

In  general,  the  charges  made  in  liis  report  may  l)e  said  to  have  been  com- 
prehensively answered  in  the  disposition  made  of  it  by  the  Department  of 
Justice.  In  n  final  report  to  the  Secretary  of  War  on  August  5.  1925  (your 
exhibit  no.  1191)  after  several  years  of  active  investigation  of  these  and 
various  other  accusations  which  had  been  made  against  the  du  Pont  Company 
and  du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  the  Attorney  General  of  the  United  States 
stnted  in  part,  as  follows: 

"An  extensive  investigation  of  the  charges  of  fraud  or  crime  above  referred 
to  has  failed  to  disclose  reasonable  or  probable  grounds  for  believing  that 
during  the  performance  of  the  contracts  in  question  th(?  du  Pont  Company 
committed  the  offenses  with  which  it  has  been  charged,  or  any  crimes,  and  in 
my  opinion  there  is  no  warrant  either  for  further  investigation  along  these 
lines  or  for  the  institution  of  proceedings  against  the  company  based  upon 
charges  of  fraud  or  crime." 

To  some  extent  the  answers  to  the  specific  matters  dealt  with  in  the  Storck 
report  have  been  already  given  in  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company's  reply 
of  December  4,  1023,  to  certain  inquiries  propounded  by  the  War  Transactions 
Section  of  the  I)ei)artment  of  Justice,  which  is  included  in  your  committee's 
record  as  exhibit  no.  1173.  In  many  other  instances,  however,  an  independent 
statement  of  the  facts  is  necessary  for  the  present  purpose.  In  this  com- 
munication, therefore,  we  have  endeavored  to  deal  in  the  order  of  their  occur- 
rence with  all  the  accusations  and  innuendoes  of  any  seeming  importance 
which  we  have  been  able  to  glean  from  Mr.  Storck's  report.     The  references 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3517 

are  to  the  parngraph  numbers  and  subtitles  of  that  document.  Before  taking 
up  the  specific  charges,  however,  it  appears  desirable  to  explain  briefly  certain 
matters  of  general  import  which  have  a  common  bearing  upon  a  large  number 
of  Mr.  Storck's  accusations. 

SOME   GENERAL,   EXPLANATIONS 

The  frequent  recurrence  in  Mr.  Stoi'ck's  report  of  erroneous  statements  that 
various  materials  were  shipped  to  Old  Hickory  after  December  1,  1918,  leads 
us  to  wonder  if  he  or  his  informants  did  not  confuse  dates  of  shipment  with 
dates  of  receipt  of  materials  at  the  plant.  The  possibility  also  suggests  itself 
that  dates  of  vouchers  may  have  been  confused  with  dates  of  shipment. 

With  a  constant  flow  of  some  300  cars  daily  of  incoming  materials  and  with 
as  many  as  SCO  cars  at  one  time  on  the  sidings  for  unloading,  it  was  the  natural 
practice  to  group  numerous  related  shipments  upon  one  voucher.  In  the  pres- 
sure incident  to  completing  construction  of  this  huge  plant  and  at  the  same 
time  bringing  it  into  production,  all  under  war-time  conditions,  it  was  inevi- 
table that  there  should  be  a  certain  amount  of  congestion  and  delays  in  the 
work  of  checking  and  accounting  necessary  for  billing  these  materials  to  the 
Government.  In  some  instances,  shipments  received  in  October  were  included 
in  the  vouchers  issued  in  December  and  January.  These  facts  are  cited  merely 
as  indicating  possilile  explanations  of  the  chronic  confusion  under  which  Mr. 
Storck  appears  to  have  labored  in  this  matter  of  dates  of  shipment;  what  the 
actual  explanation  was,  we  of  course  do  not  know,  as  no  opportunity  was  ever 
afforded  us  to  examine  Mr.  Storck  with  respect  to  these  matters. 

At  the  outset  it  is  also  necessary  to  correct  several  other  apparent  miscon- 
ceptions of  which  evidence  is  frequent  throughout  tlae  report.  In  the  first 
place,  the  du  Pont  Company  had  nothing  to  gain  from  piling  up  surplus  mate- 
rials at  Old  Hickory.  Neither  the  construction  nor  the  operating  part  of  its 
contract  was  on  the  usual  cost-plus-a-percentage  basis.  The  plant  was  built 
for  cost  plus  one  dollar,  and  it  was  operated  for  a  fixed  profit  of  SV2  cents 
per  pound  of  powder  produced,  plus  one-half  the  saving  under  an  agreed 
base  cost  figure.  Therefore,  it  was  clearly  to  the  company's  interest  to  avoid 
surplus  stocks  in  order  to  promote  the  best  possible  working  conditions  and 
minimize  handling  charges  on  the  plant. 

Contrary  to  Mr.  Storck's  assumption,  the  du  Pont  Company  had  nothing 
to  gain  l)y  "  unloading "  upon  Old  Hickory  the  incoming  or  on-hand  stocks 
of  raw  materials  for  powder  manufacture  at  its  own  plants,  which  the  close 
of  the  war  made  surplus.  The  company  had  not  been  speculating  in  raw 
materials.  The  contracts  with  its  p]uropean  customers  had  all  been  for  defi- 
nite quantities  of  powder.  Throughout  the  closing  period  of  the  war,  the 
company's  entire  unsold  capacity  was  taken  by  the  U.  S.  Government,  under 
similarly  definite  contracts.  These  contracts  imposed  upon  the  company  the 
necessity  of  providing  the  necessary  raw  materials  to  make  the  specified 
quantities  of  powder,  and  the  price  was  figured  without  any  allowance  for 
risk  of  loss  on  these  materials.  At  the  same  time,  it  was  recognized  as  clearly 
desirable  that  the  Government  should  have  the  right  to  discontinue  the  manu- 
facture of  powder  when  the  war  ended.  The  contracts,  therefore,  contained 
the  quite  usual  and  manifestly  fair  cancellation  clause,  providing  in  effect 
that  the  Government  could  order  maniifacture  stopped  at  any  time,  but  that 
upon  doing  so  it  would  save  the  manufacturer  from  loss  on  the  necessary  raw 
materials  provided  to  fill  Government  ordei's  by  taking  them  off  the  company's 
hands.  Under  this  provision  in  numerous  contracts,  the  du  Pont  Company 
when  the  war  suddenly  came  to  an  end  was  entitled  to  turn  over,  and  did 
turn  over,  to  the  Government  practically  the  entire  unused  stocks  of  raw  mate- 
rials not  in  process  at  its  own  jdants.  There  would  have  been  no  advantage 
whatever  to  the  company  in  shifting  these  stocks  to  the  Government's  plant 
at  Old  Hickory,  for  they  belonged  to  the  Government  in  any  event  as  soon  as 
the  contracts  were  suspended.  There  was  no  such  thing  as  the  "  unloading  " 
which  Mr.  Storck  repeatedly  charges ;  and  his  whole  theory  in  that  connection 
is,  in  relation  to  the  underlying  facts  of  the  situation  which  prevailed,  a 
manifest  absurdity. 

Again,  an  assumption  apparently  underlying  many  of  Mr.  Storck's  criticisms, 
or  at  least  an  inference  naturally  to  be  drawn  from  his  report,  is  that  when  the 
armistice  was  signed  the  manufacture  of  munitions  and  the  acceptance  of  ma- 
terials therefor  should  have  been  brought  promptly  to  an  end.     The  facts  in 


3518  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

that  connection  are  that,  so  far  as  lay  within  the  power  of  the  du  Pont  Company, 
a  view  very  close  to  that  assumption  was  at  once  adopted  and  acted  upon.  On 
November  11,  the  very  day  of  the  signing  of  the  armistice  and  without  waiting 
tor  any  orders  from  tlie  Governnjent,  the  company's  principal  men  at  the  various 
war  plants  under  its  management,  including  Old  Hickory,  were  instructed  from 
Wilmington  at  once  to  set  about  preparing  tor  a  shut-down ;  the  same  suggestion 
was  promptly  put  forward  by  the  company's  (.fficials  to  the  representatives  of 
the  Government  with  whom  they  were  in  contact ;  and  in  tlie  ensuing  period, 
very  large  amounts  were  saved  to  the  Government  by  the  du  Pont  C(nnpany's 
initiative  in  taking  prompt  action  in  a  number  of  cases  to  sliut  off  needless 
further  accruals  of  materials,  in  some  instances  without  any  clear  authority 
and  at  the  risk  of  not  having  its  action  ratified.  The  total  thus  saved  was 
approximately  $10,000,000.  In  addition,  some  $4,000,000  more  was  saved  to 
the  Government  through  tlie  willing  renunciation!  by  the  company  of  rights 
whicli  it  had  under  certain  of  its  contracts  to  continue  operating  for  specified 
periods  after  receipt  of  notice  of  suspension.  (See  typewritten  record,  pages 
5428-31.) 

By  those  in  authority  in  shaping  our  national  course,  however,  a  policy 
of  gradually  tapering  off,  instead  of  abruptly  discontinuing,  the  production  of 
munitions  was  commanded,  on  the  dual  grounds  of  a  still  necessary  military 
prudence  and  of  the  necessities  of  the  great  body  of  workers  employed  on 
Government  orders.  In  that  connection,  tlie  following  excerpts  from  an  official 
instruction  issued  on  November  20,  1918,  by  the  Secretary  of  War  to  the  Chief 
of  Staff  (italics  ours)  are  instructive: 

"  The  present  macliinery  of  industry  and  labor  devoted  to  munition  produc- 
tion constitutes  a.  military  weapon  of  the  higliest  consequence.  Although  an 
armistice  has  ieoi  siffiied,  the  Nation  is  still  at  war  and  the  military  needs  of 
the  eountrif  forbid  ttiat  this  essential  part  of  the  military  machine  should  ie 
destroyed  through  a  sudden  cessation  of  production. 

"  In  determining,  therefore,  whether  the  Department  should  refuse  to  con- 
tinue to  receive  deliveries  of  articles  now  being  made  at  the  instance  of  the 
Government,  *  *  *  supply  officers  should  consider  first,  whether  or  not 
the  particular  article  being  produced  can  probably  be  dispensed  with ;  and, 
second,  whether  or  not  the  labor  employed  can  immediately  be  released  and 
the  production  of  the  particular  plant  can  suddenly  be  terminated  without 
undue  injury  to  the  industrinl  military  machine.  Unless  the  discontinuance 
of  production  can  be  so  effected,  deliveries  should  not  be  stopped,  arrange- 
ments being  made,  hoivever,  for  the  tapering  down  of  such  production  as  speedily 
as  practicable." 

In  accord  with  this  basic  general  policy,  already  determined  upon  and  in 
effect,  it  was  decided  by  the  Government  at  a  conference  held  in  Washington 
between  representatives  of  the  Government  and  of  our  company,  some  time  prior 
to  the  date  of  the  official  memorandum  just  quoted,  that  there  shnuld  be  no 
abrupt  stoppage  of  powder  production  at  Old  Hickory  but  that  the  operation 
of  that  plant  should  be  gradually  redxiced  to  approximately  50  percent  of 
its  maximum  production  on  December  15,  1918,  25  percent  by  December  31,  and 
a  complete  cessation  of  production  on  January  15,  1919.  This  official  policy 
of  a  gradual  tapering  off  of  production,  together  with  the  necessities  of  closing 
up  numercius  contracts  for  materials  previously  entered  into  under  a  general 
procurement  policy  which  had  the  full  approval  of  the  Government,  must  be 
constantly  borne  in  mind  for  a  correct  appraisal  of  many  of  Mr.  Storck's 
accusations. 

To  the  same  end,  the  vastness  of  the  intended  scale  of  operations  at  Old 
Hickory,  and  the  unexpected  suddenness  of  the  war's  ending,  must  not  be  lost 
sight  of.  A  cardinal  principle  of  all  manufacture  is  the  maintenance  of  ade- 
quate stocks  of  raw  materials  to  avoid  interruptions  in  manufacture.  Under 
war  conditions,  at  the  plant  which  was  to  constitute  the  Government's  largest 
soui'ce  of  jiowder  suppl.v,  this  necessity  was  accentuated.  Along  with  the 
final  stage  of  construction  at  Old  Hickory,  and  the  initial  stage  of  production 
in  the  completed  units,  went  the  building  up  of  sufficient  working  stocks  of 
raw  materials  and  supplies  to  take  care  of  the  intended  enormous  ultimafe 
volume  of  production,  which  upon  completion  of  all  nine  units  would  have 
reached  by  the  end  of  December  1918,  a  total  of  not  less  than  900.000  poun^ls 
of  finished  powder  daily.  The  lack  of  any  essential  matei'ial  would  have 
blocked  or  reduced  this  output;  and  the  company's  own  prudence  was  reen- 
forced  by  repeated  urgings  fi-fim  the  War  Department  that  nothing  should 
be  neglected  which  might  impair  or  threaten  the  full  force  of  the  tremendous 


MUNITIONS   INDTJSTKY  3519 

military  effort  intended  for  1919.  The  materials  left  on  hand  at  the  close  of 
operations  represented,  therefore,  not  merely  what  was  necessary  for  the 
volume  of  production  already  attained,  but  the  building  up  of  the  full  stocks 
which  would  have  been  required  to  support  the  intended  ultimate  volume  of 
production. 

At  first  glance,  both  the  individual  items  of  materials  which  were  left  on 
hand  at  Old  Hickory  by  the  sudden  closing  of  the  war  and  the  grand  total 
of  somewhat  less  than  $6,000,000  worth  of  such  surplus  stocks,  to  anyone  who 
did  not  take  into  consideration  conditions  prior  to  the  armistice,  are  apt  to 
seem  excessive.  The  intended  monthly  output  of  this  plant,  however,  would 
have  exceeded  24,000,000  pounds  of  powder,  and  that  rate  would  have  been 
attained  within  about  six  weeks  after  the  date  of  the  armistice.  If  we 
assume  for  purposes  of  convenient  quick  calculation  that  the  ultimate  manu- 
facturing cost  would  have  been  40  cents  a  pound  and  that  half  of  this  cost 
would  have  been  in  raw  materials  and  supplies,  then  it  will  be  evident  that 
the  above  $6,000,000  of  surplus  stocks  was  equivalent  to  not  more  than  about 
a  five  weeks'  supply.  Obviously,  in  relation  to  ordinary  manufacturing  prac- 
tice, and  in  view  of  the  special  conditions  at  that  time  prevailing,  such  provi- 
sion must  be  regarded  as  being  if  anything  deficient  rather  than  excessive. 

PARAGEAPHS   1   TO  3.      CRITICISMS  OF   STORAGE  OF  RECORDS 

On  April  17,  1919,  the  Old  Hickory  Powder  Plant,  with  all  its  records  and 
appurtenances,  was  turned  over  by  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company  to  the 
U.  S.  Government.  We  had  from  that  date  forward  no  control  whatever  over 
the  storage  and  handling  of  the  Old  Hickory  records,  and  we  are  therefore 
in  no  way  responsil)le  for  the  conditions  reported  as  existing  in  September, 
1923.  Mr.  Storck's  reported  "  understanding "  that  Major  O'Shaughnessy,  by 
wliose  orders  certain  records  are  said  to  have  been  stored  in  a  temporary 
building  in  the  powder  area,  "  was  formerly  connected  with  the  corporation  of 
E.  I.  du  Pout  de  Nemours  &  Co.",  is  entirely  without  foundation,  and  is 
further  evidence  of  Mr.  Storck's  recklessness  in  making  statements.  Major 
O'Shaughnessy  was  never  in  the  employ  of  this  company,  nor  of  any  of  its 
predecessor  or  subsidiary  corporations,  in  any  capacity  whatsoever. 

SECTION    4 ALCOHOL 

Mr.  Storck  states  that  the  War  Department  auditors  took  exception  to 
755,072  pounds  of  alcohol,  valued  at  some  $75,507,  "  which  was  shipped  to  the 
plant  after  date  of  December  1,  1918."  The  fact  is  that  no  alcohol  was 
shipped  to  Old  Hickory  after  December  1,  1918.  The  last  shipment  of  that 
material  was  made  on  November  29th,  in  accord  with  the  policy  of  the  Gov- 
ernment as  stated  above.  This  was  under  a  contract  which  had'  been  entered 
into  with  one  of  the  principal  producers  on  April  12,  1918,  and  under  which 
the  unshipped  balance  was  subsequently  cancelled.  Mr.  Storck's  apparent  con- 
fusion of  dates  of  invoices  with  dates  of  shipment  and  the  circumstances 
attending  late  shipments  of  raw  materials  to  Old  Hickory  have  been,  we  believe, 
sufficiently  explained  hereinbefore. 

FIIiST    PARAGRAPH    RELATIVE    TO    COTTON 

The  report  indicates  that  nearly  13,700,000  pounds  of  this  essential  material 
were  shipped  to  Old  Hickory  after  December  1st.  The  fact  is  that  only  about 
one-fouith  that  quantity,  somewhat  over  $3,600,000  pounds,  was  shipped  to  Old 
Hickory  alter  December  1st;  and  of  that  total  nearly  half  was  in  reforward- 
ings  of  earlier  shipments  in  correction  of  an  error  of  the  shipper  for  which  the 
du  Pont  Engineering  Company  v>as  in  no  way  responsible,  and  upon  which  the 
Government  was  fully  "made  whole",  as  explained  under  "paragraph  (a)" 
below.  All  shipments  of  cotton  to  Old  Hickory  were  in  strict  accord  with  the 
policies  and  general  instructions  laid  down  by  the  Government  itself,  and  were 
approved  by  the  duly  authorized  representatives  of  the  Government. 

PARAGRAPH     (A)     EELATIVE    TO    COTTON 

Mr.  Storck's  statement  that  the  plant  at  Nitro,  West  Virginia,  was  "  a  plant 
of  the  parent  company  of  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company"  is  entirely  with- 
out foundation.     The  Nitro  plant  was  built  for  the  U.  S.  Government  by  the 


3520  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

Thompsoii-Starrett  Company  under  Government  supervision.  It  was  operated 
by  the  Hercules  Powder  Ccmpany.  Neither  the  du  I'ont  Company  nor  any  of 
its  subsidiary  companies,  liad  any  interest  whatever  hi  the  plant  at  Nitre 
or  had  had  anything  to  do  wltli  its  construction  or  operation,  except  that  tlie 
Company's  experience  and  special  knowledge,  without  any  compensation,  were 
placed  freely  at  the  disposal  of  the  Government  in  constructing  it. 

The  shipments  of  cotton  to  Old  Hickory  from  the  du  Pont  Company's  plant  at 
Hopewell,  Virginia,  were  simply  reforwardlngs  in  correction  of  an  error  which 
had  been  made  in  the  original  shiijment  by  the  Buckeye  Cotton  Oil  Company, 
which  was  the  seller  and  shipper.  This  material  had  been  bought  for  Old 
Hickory  and  plain  and  complete  instructions  had  been  duly  given  for  its  ship- 
ment there,  but  through  some  confusion  or  Inadvertence  on  the  shipper's  part 
It  was  later  discovered  to  have  been  sent  to  the  du  Pont  Company's  own  plant 
at  Hopewell.  This  error  was  rectified  at  the  expense  of  the  shipper,  without 
cost  to  the  Government.  This  Is  all  fully  explained  in  Exhibit  No.  1173, 
under  the  title  "  In  the  Matter  of  Specific  Items  of  Inquiry  ",  subtitle  4.  Cotton 
Llnters ",  "  Question  4."  Mr.  Stoi-ck's  statement  that  "  further  Investigation 
will  disclose  the  fact  that  this  cotton  was  purchased  on  requisition  and  pur- 
chase orders  for  "  the  du  Pont  Company's  own  plants  Is  simply  not  true,  and 
we  are  at  a  loss  to  discover  any  foundation  fcr  that  statement. 

PARAGRAPH     (B)    UNDER    COTTON 

Here  the  charge  Is  that  the  du  Pont  Company  collected  an  illicit  profit  through 
the  device  of  having  another  subsidiary  (presumably  du  Pont  American  Indus- 
tries) buy  cotton  and  resell  It  to  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  at  an  ad- 
vance in  price  for  use  at  Old  Hickory. 

The  facts  are  that,  in  order  to  avoid  conflict  in  purchasing,  the  entire  cotton 
requirements  for  both  old  Hickory  and  the  du  Pont  plants  were  bought  to- 
gether, with  the  full  knovv-ledge  and  approval  of  the  Government ;  that  under 
certain  purchase  contracts  providing  fcT  price  adjustments  of  which  the  exact 
effect  could  not  be  determined  at  the  time  of  purchase,  a  temporary  figure,  suf- 
ficient to  Include  the  proljable  maximum,  was  adopted  for  billing  purposes,  sub- 
ject to  later  adjustment ;  that  this  final  adjustment  was  delayed  through  an 
illness  of  the  vice  president  of  the  du  Pont  Company  having  the  matter  in 
charge ;  and  that  the  overcharge  was  shortly  discovered  by  the  Government's 
auditors  and  promptly  refunded  to  the  Government,  with  interest,  several  years 
in  advance  of  the  date  of  Mr.  Storck's  report.  The  full  details  of  this  and 
certain  related  matters  are  set  forth  in  exhibit  no.  1173,  under  the  head  of 
"  Cotton  Llnters  ",  Questions  1,  2,  and  3. 

PARAGRAPHS     (C)     AND     (D)     UNDER    COTTON 

The  accusation  that  the  du  Pont  Company  recklessly  paid  excessive  freight 
charges,  without  checking  the  rates,  will  be  found  fully  answered  under  the 
subtitle  "  5.  Freight  Charges  "  in  exhibit  no.  1173.  The  du  Pont  Engineering 
Company  was  officially  instructed  by  the  War  Department  not  to  audit  freight 
bills  "  0.S'  thei/  wtcnded  performing  this  function  in  Wafdiington" ;  this  instruc- 
tion being  further  explained  by  the  statement,  "  The  main  point  of  this  is 
that  the  traffic  department  (of  the  du  Pont  Company)  would  not  know,  or  be 
able  to  catch,  errors  of  rates  that  the  Government  is  entitled  to  on  all  ship- 
ments." In  accord  with  this  instruction,  freight  bills  were  promptly  paid 
as  rendered,  and  turned  over  to  the  Government  for  audit  and  collection  of 
overcharges. 

It  appears  pertinent  to  add  that  since  the  Government  at  that  time  was 
operating  the  railroads,  any  excess  or  deficiency  in  its  freight  collections  would 
have  been,  in  any  event,  essentially  a  matter  of  transferring  funds  from  one 
Government  pocket  into  another.  The  du  Pont  Company  had  nothing  to  gain 
or  lose  from  any  such  transfer.  Mr.  Storck  apparently  has  an  ingenious 
theory  that  through  permitting  the  Government  to  charge  itself  too  much 
freight,  the  du  Pont  Company  could  profit  by  some  percentage  on  the  excess 
materials  cost  thus  incurred.  There  was  no  such  percentage.  All  these  llnters 
were  bought,  by  arrangement  with  the  Government,  at  a  small  flat  fee  per 
bale ;  and  the  company's  compensation  per  pound  of  powder  produced  was,  by 
express  contract  provision,  made  Independent  of  variations  in  the  delivered 
cost  of  the  essential  materials. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY  3521 

PARAGB.\PH.S     (E),     (F) ,    AND     (G)     UNDER    COTTON 

Mr.  Storck  accuses  the  dii  Pont  Company  of  robbing  the  Government  thron.sh 
false  weights  on  cotton  (meaning  cotton  linters).  It  would  seem  that  the 
extreme  amount  of  excess  in  the  several  cases  he  cites  might  have  suggested 
the  true  nature  of  these  discoveries;  namely,  that  they  were  simply  clerical 
errors,  of  which  a  certain  proportion  is  inevitable,  especially  in  a  task  of 
such  magnitude  and  complexity  as  the  construction  and  operation  of  the  Old 
Hickory  plant  under  the  stress  of  war-time  conditions. 

The  facts  in  relation  to  this  charge,  including  the  exact  details  with  respect 
to  each  of  the  four  shipments  specitied  by  Mr.  Storck,  will  be  found  fully  set 
forth  in  exhibit  1173,  under  the  subhead  "  4.  Cotton  Linters  ",  in  our  answer 
to  question  7.  In  every  one  of  these  cases,  the  weights  billed  to  and  paid 
for  by  the  Government  were  the  actual  weights  received  and  not  the  grotesque 
figures  cited  by  IMr.    Storck. 

PARAGRAPH     (H)     UNDEPv   COTTON 

The  alleged  post-war  sale  by  the  Nashville  Industrial  Corporation  has  noth- 
ing to  do  with  the  du  Pont  Company,  which  has  never  had  any  interest  in  or 
control  over  that  corporation. 

CAUSTICIZING  LIME 

Contrary  to  Mr.  Storck's  statement,  no  shipments  of  this  material  were  made 
after  December  1.  191S.     The  last  sliipment  was  made  on  November  28th. 

The  statement  that  "  Claims  entered  against  the  above-mentioned  shipper 
(T.  L.  Herbert  &  Sons),  and  acknowledged  as  correct  by  the  railroad  agent  as 
to  weights,  were  weighed  liy  the  contractor  and  paid  in  full  ",  is  vague  and  am- 
biguous, and  we  have  been  unalde  to  determine  just  what  was  meant  by  it. 

In  general,  all  incoming  shipments  of  materials,  upon  arrival  at  Old  Hickory 
or  as  soon  thereafter  as  the  necessary  work  could  be  gotten  through,  were 
weighed  or  counted,  or  the  content  measured  and  computed,  and  the  quantities 
^.hus  determined  to  have  been  received  were  checked  against  copies  of  the  sliip- 
pers'  invoices.  Certification  of  this  check  was  required  before  payment,  except 
where  payment  tipon  conditional  approval  was  necessary  to  protect  cash  dis- 
counts. In  all  cases  of  indicated  shortage,  claims  were  tiled,  against  the  ship- 
per or  the  carrier,  according  to  the  circumstances  of  the  individual  case,  and 
pushed  through  to  the  point  of  collection  or  disproof,  in  the  usual  way.  A  sub- 
stantial amount,  covering  a  large  number  of  such  claims,  was  thus  collected  and 
credited  to  the  Government.  Under  the  circumstances  pi'evailing,  it  is  not 
claimed  that  the  functioning  of  this  system  was  perfect,  or  fully  equal  to  that 
of  normal  peace-time  operation.  The  opportunity  for  collecting  shortage  and 
damage  claims  was  certainly  not  overlooked  or  neglected,  however ;  the  work 
of  doing  so  was  well  organized  and  regularly  carried  on  and  the  methods  used 
were  identical  with  those  followed  on  the  company's  own  plants. 

The  procedure  described  was  applied  regularly  to  causticizing  lime,  just  as 
to  all  other  materials. 

NITRATE  OF  SODA PARAGRAPHS   (A) -(E) 

Mr.  storck's  statements  and  questions  under  this  head  betray  an  entire  lack 
of  any  real  knowledge  or  luiderstanding  of  the  subject.  When  the  facts  are 
known,  his  charges  for  the  most  part  lieconie  ridiculous. 

At  the  outset,  the  crucial  importance  of  Chile  nitrate  was  recognized  by  the 
European  Allies  and  by  the  United  States,  and  all  importations  were  placed 
under  strict  Government  control,  as  to  both  quantity  and  price.  Primarily 
this  control  was  exercised  by  an  international  authority  known  as  the  "  London 
Executive  ",  made  up  of  representatives  of  the  British,  French,  and  American 
Governments.  This  international  authority  made  its  allocations  to  each  of 
the  several  countiies  concerned  and  determined  just  when  each  country  should 
go  into  the  Chilean  market  as  a  buyer.  Within  our  country,  under  this  general 
guidance  of  the  London  Executive,  the  direct  control  of  all  purchases  and 
prices  of  nitrate  of  soda,  was  exercised  by  the  "  Nitrate  Committee  of  the 
United  States",  a  creation  of  the  War  Industries  Board,  which  remained  under 
the  surveillance  of  tliat  Board  and  in  close  official  connection  with   it.     The 


3522  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

committee's  membership  included  representatives  of  the  four  establislied  im- 
porting firms,  W.  R.  Grace  &  Co.,  Wessel-Duval  &  Co.,  Gibbs  &  Co.,  and  Du  Pont 
Nitrate  Co. ;  and  as  a  war  measure,  the  right  to  import  was  confined  to  tliese 
four  agencies,  which  were  designated  to  purchase  nitrate  of  soda  for  the  needs, 
first,  of  the  War  and  Navy  Departments  and  the  Department  of  Agriculture, 
and  then  for  their  own  general  requirements  and  tliose  of  otlier  consumers. 
The  quantities  to  be  purchased  were  allocated  to  the  four  authorized  im- 
porters on  the  basis  of  their  comparative  pre-war  volume.  Before  being  ren- 
dered to  the  Ordnance  Department,  all  accounts  for  nitrate  of  soda  purchased 
had  to  be  submitted  to,  and  approved  by  Mr.  Ray  Paige,  representative  of  the 
War  Industries  Board  and  office  manager  of  the  nitrate  committee ;  so  that 
the  Government  had  a  doulde  check  to  see  that  all  bills  it  paid  for  nitrate 
were  in  accord  with  the  established  regulations  and  witli  all  contract  provisions. 

All  nitrate  of  soda  provided  for  use  at  Old  Hickory  was  thus  in  effect  bought 
by  the  Government  itself,  through  this  rigid  method  of  agency  purchasing, 
and  not  by  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Ciimpany,  as  was  the  case  with  other 
raw  materials  generally.  The  quantities  bought  were  a  direct  function  of 
the  Government's  own  schedule  of  powder  requirements.  The  entire  scope 
of  any  and  all  du  Pont  participation  in  their  procurement  was  under  a  standard 
agency  contract,  dated  May  2,  1918,  under  which  the  du  Pont  Nitrate  Company 
undertook  to  act  as  one  of  the  Government's  agents  in  buying  and  handling 
the  Chilean  nitrate  of  soda  for  the  Ordnance  Department.  Under  this  con- 
tract approximately  191,000  tons  of  Chile  nitrate  were  bought  for  the  Govern- 
ment, of  which  about  46,500  tons  were  shipped  to  Old  Hickory.  In  addition,  the 
Government  shipped  to  Old  Hickory  about  44,400  tons  procured  under  similar 
arrangements  with  other  contractors. 

When  arrangements  for  procuring  and  handling  nitrate  of  soda  came  to 
be  considered  between  the  Government  and  the  importers  after  the  United 
States  entered  the  war,  it  was  proposed  by  the  du  Pont  Company's  representa- 
tive that  this  work  be  done  for  the  Government  at  cost.  That  principle  was 
adopted.  It  was  the  feeling  of  the  Government's  representatives,  ho^^■ever, 
that,  for  the  sake  of  simplicity,  certain  minor  elements  of  the  total  cost  which 
were  somewhat  difficult  of  exact  determination  had  best  be  covered  by  definite, 
predetermined  allowances ;  and  it  was  accordingly  agreed  that  in  addition  to 
reimbursement  of  the  amounts  paid  out  as  the  purchase  price  of  the  material  in 
Chile  and  the  necessary  expenses  paid  directly  for  the  assaying,  loading,  and 
shipping  of  particular  lots,  the  importers  should  be  allowed  %  of  1%  upon 
the  f.  a.  s.  Chile  price  of  the  nitrate  to  cover  their  ordinary  overhead  expense 
in  Chile,  plus  five  cents  per  ton  of  2,240  pounds  to  offset  the  cost  of  their  work 
as  agent  of  the  United  States  in  attending  to  the  loading,  sliipping,  unloading, 
and  "  caring  for  "  this  "  property  of  the  United  States  ",  and  its  "  transporta- 
tion and  distribution  "  from  the  ports  of  discharge  in  this  country. 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  in  case  of  the  du  Pont  Nitrate  Company,  these  allow- 
ances did  not  exceed  tlie  actual  costs  involved,  and  are  believed  to  have  fallen 
somewhat  short  of  balancing  them.  There  were  no  other  allowances ;  and 
there  was  no  profit  whatever  on  this  business  to  the  du  Pont  Company  or  to 
any  of  its  subsidiaries. 

The  question,  "  Why  place  an  additional  price  of  six  shillings  a  quintal  at 
shipside  before  the  nitrate  of  soda  was  placed  abviard  ship  for  transportation 
to  point  of  delivery?"  appears  to  be  simply  another  of  Mr.  Storck's  wild  imagi- 
nations. There  was  no  such  impost  and  nothing  resembling  it ;  and  we  have 
been  utterly  unal)le  to  determine  what  he  is  driving  at.  Six  .^hillings  a  quintal 
v.'ould  have  been  about  thirty  dollars  a  ton.  which,  in  relation  to  the  values 
involved,  is  a  manifest  absurdity.  Possibly  Mr.  Storck's  confusion  here  traces 
back  to  the  rate  of  six  pcvce  a  quintal  which  was  the  standard  differential 
betv.'een  the  so-called  "  refined  "  and  ordinary  grades  of  nitrnte  of  soda.  Or 
maybe  he  was  somehow  misled  by  the  freight  cost  of  $25.00  a  ton  (fixed  by 
tlie  War  Industries  Board),  which,  with  the  expenses  described  above  and 
amounting  to  about  $5.00  a  ton,  would  equal  his  figure  of  approximately 
thirty  dollars.  These,  however,  are  simply  guesses;  and  we  are  unable  here  to 
do  more  than  guess  at  what  may  possibly  have  been  in  Mr.  Storck's  mind. 

To  forestall  a  possible  misapprehension,  it  should  perhaps  be  added  that 
the  du  Pont  Nitrate  Company  itself,  before  and  during  the  war,  was  a  pro- 
ducer of  nitrate  of  soda  in  Chile.  Its  entire  output  during  the  period  in 
question,  however,  was  at  the  rate  of  only  about  2,00.)  tons  a  month  (in 
comparison  with  the  total  of  nearly  91,000  tons  shipped  to  Old  Hickory),  or 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3523 

less  than  1%  of  the  Chilean  production.  And  of  that  small  output,  it  happens 
that  the  entire  quantity  was  shipped  to  the  parent  company's  own  plants  and 
those  of  competitive  explosives  manufacturers,  and  no  pound  of  this  du  Pont 
nitrate  went  to  Old  Hickory. 

The  entire  groundlessness  of  Mr.  Storck's  apparent  belief  that  there  was  a 
profit  for  the  du  Pont  Company  in  loading  Old  Hickory  up  with  excessive 
stocks,  or  in  shunting  ofC  upon  Old  Hickory  surplus  stocks  from  its  own  plants, 
or  that  there  was  any  failure  on  the  part  of  the  du  Pont  Company  to  discern 
or  act  upon  the  "  moral  notice  "  in  the  signing  of  the  armistice  that  the  war 
was  probably  at  an  end,  has  all,  we  believe,  been  sufficiently  made  plain  above, 
in  the  section  headed  "  Some  General  Explanations."  Tlie  statement  to  which 
he  refers  on  the  first  page  of  the  company's  annual  report  for  1918,  all  per- 
fectly true  and  significant  in  the  present  connection,  is  as  follows : 

"  The  sudden  ending  of  the  war  on  November  11,  1918,  brought  about  an 
almost  immediate  curtailment  of  activities  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  & 
Company,  and  the  few  remaining  weeks  of  the  year  1918  were  sufficient  to 
eliminate  almost  completely  all  munition  business.  The  magnitude  and  rapid- 
ity of  this  reduction  is  well  illustrated  in  the  shrinkage  in  number  of  em- 
ployees at  munition  plants,  of  whom  on  November  11th  there  were  85,638 
engaged  on  war  orders,  while  on  December  27th,  18,101  only  remained  on  the 
pay  rolls.  Ofiicers  of  the  company  encouraged  the  departments  at  Washington 
to  cancel  all  contracts  quickly  in  order  to  save  material  and  labor  in  pro- 
ducing unnecessary  explosives.  It  so  happens  that  orders  for  the  year  1918 
were  practically  completed.  Little  will  be  done  on  contracts  covering  the  first 
six  months  of  1919.  and  no  profit  will  be  derived  from  the  uncompleted  portion 
thereof.     The  contracts  cancelled  amounted  to  about  $260,000,000." 

SODA    ASH 

Oi»jection  is  raised  against  some  700,000  pounds  of  this  material,  having  a 
value  of  somewhat  less  than  $11,000,  alleged  to  have  been  shipped  after  Decem- 
ber 1,  1918.  An  exhaustive  examination  of  our  records  shows  that  there  was  no 
shipment  of  soda  ash  made  to  Old  Hickory  after  the  time  limit  stated.  The 
final  shipment  was  made  on  November  29,  1918. 

CRUDE     SULPHXm 

Contrary  to  Mr.  Storck's  apparent  conclusion,  no  sulphur  was  shipped  to  Old 
Hickory  after  December  1,  1918.  The  last  shipment  was  made  on  November 
17th.  The  suggestion  of  "  unloading "  upon  the  Government  has  been  dis- 
posed of  in  the  general  explanations  given  above,  in  the  first  subtitled  section 
of  this  communication. 

The  guarding  charges  referred  to  in  pai'agraph  (b),  amounting  to  a  total 
of  soraewliat  less  than  $5,000,  were  incurred  in  protecting  part  of  the  sulphur 
for  Old  Hickory  against  the  risk  of  fire  in  transit.  Mr.  Storck's  complaint 
with  respect  to  these  charges  is  that  "  Some  cars  required  shows  the  ex- 
penditure to  be  approximately  409o  higher  charges  from  the  same  point  of 
origin  and  for  the  same  number  of  cars." 

With  a  general  shortage  of  rolling  stock,  numerous  shipments  of  sulphur 
had  to  be  made  in  open  cars.  To  safeguard  this  inflammable  material  against 
sparks  from  the  locomotive  or  ignition  from  some  outside  source,  it  was 
necessary  either  to  cover  these  cars  or  else  to  have  them  continuously  watched 
in  transit.  On  a  large  volume  of  this  material  moving  from  the  mine  of  the 
Union  Sulphur  Company,  in  Louisiana,  the  latter  of  these  expedients  was 
adopted  as  the  less  expensive,  the  shipments  being  bunched  into  trainloads 
and  "  sulphur-train  guards  ",  of  two  men  each,  being  sent  out  with  each  train 
to  insure  constant  watchfulness. 

For  this  irregular  work,  men  were  hired  by  the  Union  Sulphur  Company  at 
point  of  origin  as  the  opportunity  afforded  and  under  whatever  arrangements 
could  best  be  made  in  the  individual  instance.  Under  war  conditions,  it  seems 
hardly  surprising  that  the  cost  of  these  arrangements  varied ;  and  this  natural 
variation  was  accentuated  by  differences  in  the  number  of  cars  to  the  train 
and  by  the  fact  that  in  some  instance  the  railroads  used  circuitous  routes 
around  points  of  traffic  congestion,  thus  considerably  lengthening  the  time  in 
transit.  The  files  show  that  this  variation  was  promptly  questioned  by  the  due 
Pont  Engineering  Company  and  that  the  unavoidable  reasons  for  it  were  satis- 
factorily explained  by  the  Union  Sulphur  Company. 


3524  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

SULPHUEIC    ACID 

Complaint  is  made  that  sulphuric  acid  was  hought  from  tl)e  Mineral  Point 
Zinc  Company  at  $34.84  a  ton  within  a  weelv  of  the  time  when  purchases  were 
made  from  the  Grasselli  Chemical  Company  at  $28.00  a  ton.  The  reason  for 
this  price  difference  was  that  the  acid  hought  from-  the  Mineral  Point  Zinc 
Company  was  of  the  concentrated  grade  known  as  "  oleum  ",  while  the  Gras- 
selli purchase  was  of  66°  acid,  of  sutistantinlly  lower  concentration.  On  the 
basis  of  actual  H-..S04  content,  the  prices  tor  the  two  purchases  were  practically 
identical ;  and  the  difference  in  gross  price  was  in  accord  with  the  prevailing 
trade  diU'erential  for  these  two  commercial  grades.  Contrary  to  Mr.  Storck's 
insinuation,  the  Mineral  Point  Zinc  Company  was  not  a  Du  Pont  subsidiary  ; 
and  the  du  Pont  Company  has  never  had  any  ownership  or  interest  whatever 
in  that  concern. 

It  appears  worth  while  to  add  that  tlie  main  volume  of  all  Old  Hickory's  sul- 
phuric acid  requirements  was  produced  by  an  acid  unit  which  was  part  of  tlie 
plant  itself,  and  that  the  entire  purcliases  with  which  Mr.  Storck  is  here  con- 
cerning himself  amounted  to  only  about  1/2  of  1%  of  the  total  of  all  sulpliuiic 
acid  produced  and  provided  for  use  at  Old  Hickory. 


Contrary  to  Mr.  Storck's  statement,  no  solder  was  shipped  to  Old  Hickory 
after  December  1,  1918.  The  last  shipment  was  made  on  or  shortly  before 
November  16th.  The  constantly  recurring  charge  of  "unloading"  has  Iieeu 
sufficiently  considered  above,  in  the  section  headed  "  Some  General  Explanation." 

CAST-IRON   BORINGS 

The  memorandum  challenges  a  price  of  $22.06  per  long  ton  on  some  1,2C0  tons 
of  this  material  bought  from  Joseph  Bros.,  of  Cincinnati,  in  comparison  with 
a  pii'  e  of  $16.30  for  about  SO  tons  of  cast-iron  borings  from  John  C.  Kane,  of 
Phil'.idelphia  ;  and  here  again  the  question  is  raised  of  whether  tlie  du  Pont 
Company  "  is  interested  financially  in  Joseph  Bros." 

The  du  Pont  Company,  directly  or  indirectly,  had  no  interest,  financial  or 
otherwise  in  Josepli  Bros.,  and  has  never  had,  except  as  an  occasional  customer. 
Cast-iron  borings  are,  of  course,  a  byproduct,  and  hence  of  somewhat  uncertain 
market  value,  wliich,  as  in  case  of  all  such  products,  tends  to  be  erratic.  More- 
over, the  materials  grouped  under  this  term  vary  widely  in  cliaracter  and  in 
actual  worth.  For  example,  at  the  present  time  (April  1935),  the  du  Pont 
Company  is  paying  for  cast-iron  borings  prices  which  range  all  the  way  from 
$8.00  to  $20.00,  according  to  quality.  So  far  as  we  can  discover,  there  v.'as 
nothing  exceptional  about  the  prices  paid  either  to  Kane  or  to  Joseph  Bros. ; 
and  tlie  difference  noted  was  simply  the  normal  market  result  of  the  differ- 
ences of  time  and  place  of  purchase  and  character  of  the  product. 

POWDER  BAGS 

Mr.  Storck  states  that  10.500  bags  were  bought  from  a  New  York  House  at 
01  cents  each  and  220  bags  from  a  local  concern  in  Nashville  at  a  price  of  $1.70, 
and  adds  that  "These  latter  bags  should  (not?)  have  been  taken  on  at  the 
difference  in  price  and  it  is  the  opinion  of  your  investigator  that  if  a  further 
investigation  is  made,  it  would  be  found  that  these  bags  were  obsolete  as  con- 
tainers of  powder," 

Bags  are,  of  course,  not  used  as  shipping  containers  for  powder,  but  only  to 
some  extent  for  handling  the  material  on  the  plant ;  and  neither  of  the  pur- 
chases referred  to  lias  anything  to  do  with  the  silk  bags  in  which  the  powder 
charges  are  loaded  for  large-caliber  artillery. 

Here  Mr.  Storck's  error  lies  in  assuming  that  the  two  lots  of  bags  were  in 
any  way  equivalent.  The  61-cent  bags  were  of  a  standard,  lined  burlap  con- 
struction, in  regular  use;  while  the  snii'Jl  lot  of  $1.70  bau's  were  made  to 
order  locally,  of  10-ounce  canvas,  for  an  experimental  purpose.  A  price  com- 
parison between  the  two  things  so  radically  dissimilar  is  a  manifest  absurdity ; 
and  if  it  be  contended  that  the  experimental  expenditure  of  $374  here  in  ques- 
tion should  not  have  been  made,  the  answer  is  that  the  du  Pont  Company's 
continual  searcli  for  new  and  improved  methods  throughout  the  war  resulted 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3525 

in  saving  millions  of  dollars  in  tiie  cost  of  manufacturing  powder,  to  tlie  great 
benefit  of  the  United  States  and  its  European  Allies  as  well  as  the  company 

itself. 

BOX   SHOOKS 

The  implications  of  the  memorandum  under  this  head  are  for  the  most  part 
simply  a  repetition  of  the  familiar  charges  of  excess  procurement,  shipments 
after  December  1st,  and  "  unloading  ",  as  to  all  of  which  we  believe  enough 
has  been  said  above,  under  the  head  of  "  Some  General  Explanation "  and 
elsewhere. 

Shook  requirements  for  the  special  zinc-lined  containers  used  for  shipping 
and  storing  smokeless  powder  are  rather  exacting ;  and  with  the  tremendous 
stimulation  of  manufactures  and  overseas  shipments  of  all  kinds  prevailing  in 
1918,  the  procurement  of  an  adecjuate  supply  of  powder  boxes  had  become  a 
problem  of  recognized  importance  and  some  difficulty.  The  necessary  shooks 
for  Old  Hickory  and  the  du  Pont  Company's  own  powder  plants  were  in  part 
bought  complete  from  oiitside  source^  and  in  part  made  up  in  the  company's  own 
shops.  Under  date  of  September  IS,  191S,  the  company's  purchasing  agent  re- 
sponsible for  box  procurement  wrote  to  the  head  of  its  smokeless-powder  operat- 
ing department,  "  There  seems  to  be  a  shortage  of  shook  and  box  capacity  in  the 
country  as  compared  with  the  country's  reciuirements,  and  it  seems  absolutely 
necessary  we  make,  without  further  delay,  new  contracts  for  further  qualities  of 
shooks,  for  the  following  reasons."  There  followed  a  concise  analysis  of  the  ex- 
isting situation,  under  some  six  heads,  indicating  the  necessit.v  of  a  reasonably 
liberal  procurement  policy.  Without  containers  to  transport  to  the  front,  the 
powder  would  not  have  any  military  value.  As  late  as  October  14th,  an  order 
was  rpcei^ed  from  the  Ordnance  Department  for  500,000  additional  Ijoxes,  with 
the  intimation  that  the  pending  completion  of  their  own  study  of  "  the  entire  box 
situation  "  would  probably  result  in  additional  orders. 

There  was  provided  for  Old  Hickory  a  total  of  approximately  300,000  shooks. 
The  total  output  of  powder  actually  produced  there  was.  in  round  numbers, 
about  35,000,000  pounds.  That  quantity,  at  the  average  of  about  140  pounds 
per  l)ox,  required  250,000  boxes,  or  with  the  conversion  loss  of  about  4%  in 
making  up  shooks  into  boxes,  approximating  260,000  shooks.  There  was  thus 
a  surjdus,  in  one  form  or  another,  equivalent  to  about  40,000  shooks,  left  in  the 
Government's  hands  by  the  sudden  ending  of  the  war.  That  quantity,  at  the 
impending  production  rate  of  somev>'hat  over  24,000,000  pounds  of  powder 
monthly,  would  have  been  sufficient  to  pack  less  than  one  week's  output  of 
powder. 

The  salvage  sale  of  surplus  shooks  referred  to  in  the  report  was  made  by 
the  Government,  at  some  time  after  the  entire  plant  and  its  stocks,  ap- 
purtenances, and  records  were  turned  over  to  it  by  the  du  Pont  Engineering 
Company,  on  April  17,  1919.  Tlie  reported  lack  of  certain  vouchers  in  the 
plant  files  in  1923  is  a  matter  similarly  outside  the  scope  of  our  knowledge 
or  control. 

StTLPHATE   ALUMINA 

Here  criticism  is  made  of  a  price  of  2%  cents  a  pound  plus  loading  charges 
paid  to  the  Harrison  Works,  a  du  Pont  subsidiary,  in  comparison  with  prices 
ranging  as  low  as  1%  cents  paid  to  others;  and  Mr.  Storck  remarks  that  "it 
is  again  apparent  that  the  contracior  bought  through  their  subsidiaries  at  a 
profit  to  themselves." 

Sulphate  of  alumina  is  used  for  water  purification.  Old  Hickory,  with  total 
working  forces  running  up  to  50,000  persons,  a  plant  village  built  to  take  care 
of  a  resident  population  of  30,000,  and  a  filter  plant  of  65,000,000  gallons  daily 
capacity,  required  large  quantities  of  that  material.  Of  the  total  of  some  SCO 
tons,  approximately  three-fourths  was  provided  under  contractual  arrange- 
ments with  the  Kalbfleisch  Corporation,  having  a  nearby  plant  at  Chat- 
tanooga. Tenn.,  at  an  average  cost,  including  a  final  settlement  of  $3,400  for 
cancellation  of  the  unshipped  balance,  equal  to  approximately  2iV  cents  a 
pound. 

From  this  regular  source  of  supply,  shipments  were  begun  in  May  and 
continued  at  frequent  intervals  until  the  latter  part  of  November.  In  the 
early  fall  of  1918,  however,  a  general  condition  of  shortage  developed  in  the 
sulphate  of  alumina   mai-ket,   with   sharply   advanced   prices    for   "  spot "    de- 


3526  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

liveries,  Tlae  Kalbfleisch  plants  at  Chattanooga  and  at  Brie,  Pa.,  were  unable 
to  supply  the  full  needs  of  Old  Hickory,  and  it  was  necessary  to  lind  other 
sources  for  part  of  the  required  material. 

In  these  circumstances,  five  cars  of  this  material  were  taken  in  September 
from  the  Harrison  works,  at  the  price  of  21/2  cents  reported  by  Mr.  Storck, 
which  was  entirely  in  accord  with  current  market  conditions  at  the  Atlantic 
seaboard.  In  procuring  this  supplementary  supply,  the  du  Pont  purchasing 
agent  dealt  with  the  Harrison  unit  on  the  same  basis  as  with  any  other  pro- 
ducer; the  acute  question  at  that  time,  however,  w;is  that  of  deliveries  rather 
than  price.  Harrison's  own  regular  customers,  within  its  logical  shipping 
territory,  were  already  taking  that  planfs  full  output  of  sulphate  of  alumina, 
and  additional  orders  were  not  desired ;  .in  fact,  by  early  November  the  Harri- 
son plant  plant  was  approximately  65  cars  behind  in  filling  the  orders  from 
its  own  contract  customers. 

On  the  5  cars  furnished  by  Harrison's,  the  total  extra  cost  cited  by  Mr. 
Storck,  including  the  loading  charges  ($65  for  two  cars,  not  one  as  he  states), 
amounted  to  about  $1,100  or  $1,20<).  This  in  no  way  represented  any  special 
advantage  to  that  du  Pont  subsidiary,  however,  since  ample  other  outlets  were 
at  that  time  available  at  the  same  figure  or  higher  for  the  full  output  of  the 
Harrison  plant ;  and  the  material  needed  at  Old  Hickory  could  not  then  have 
been  secured  at  a  lower  price  from  any  other  source. 

The  Oil,  Paint,  and  Drug  Reporter's  market  quotations  throughout  the  month 
of  September  1918  stood  at  2  to  31/2  cents  a  pound,  the  wide  spread  between 
these  figures  and  the  sharp  advance  from  the  prices  of  the  early  months  of 
the  year  indicating  plainly  the  unsettled  condition  of  the  market  and  the 
necessity  of  paying  a  premium  for  '"  spot  "  deliveries. 


Complaint  is  made  that  shipments  of  this  material  from  the  du  Pont  Com- 
pany's plant  at  Deepwater,  N.  J.,  were  billed  to  Old  Hickory  at  30  cents  a 
gallon,  plus  a  loading  charge  of  $10.00  a  car,  "  while  sliippers  from  Woodward, 
Alabama,  received  20  to  30  cents  a  gallon."  The  data  cited  are  correct  except 
that  the  loading  charge  applied  to  only  one  of  the  five  cars  shipped  from 
Deepwater,  and  the  minimum  price  paid  by  Old  Hickory  on  shipments  from 
Alabama  was  22  cents  instead  of  20  cents,  while  the  Alabama  shippers  received 
a  uniform  price  of  26  cents  a  gallon  for  all  their  shipments  to  Old  Hickory  and 
du  Pont  plants,  under  a  contract  which  the  du  Pont  Company  had  with  them. 
Mr.  Storck's  comparison  is  deficient,  however,  in  that  (1)  no  account  is  taken 
of  the  regularly  prevailing  price  differential  for  shipments  in  drums  over 
shipments  in  tank  cars;  (2)  no  allowance  is  made  for  the  difference  between 
taking  delivery  in  tank  cars  furnished  by  the  buyer  or  by  the  seller;  and  (3) 
the  comparison  ignores  the  difference  in  time  of  shipments  and  the  fact  that 
the  market  on  benzol  declined  over  the  period  in  question. 

Old  Hickory's  total  intake  of  benzol  was  approximately  168,000  gallons.  Of 
that  quantity,  less  than  22,000  gallons,  or  slightly  more  than  one-eighth,  was 
furnished  out  of  the  du  Pont  Company's  own  prfiduetion.  The  shipments  from 
the  du  Pont  Company  were  all  made  early,  on  May  7th  and  8th  and  June 
5th  and  6th ;  and  at  that  time  the  market  was  relatively  high.  Moreover, 
owing  to  lack  of  storage-tank  capacity  at  Old  Hickory  at  the  start,  these  early 
shipments  had  to  be  made  in  drums,  and  the)-e  was  an  established  price  differ- 
ential in  the  trade  of  usually  about  5  cents  a  gallon  for  drum  over  tank-car 
shipments.  Finally,  the  price  which  Old  Hickory  paid  for  the  seven-eighths 
of  its  benzol  received  from  the  Alabama  producer  was  influenced  by  the  fact 
that  tlie  du  Pont  Company  furnished  the  tank  cars  in  which  it  was  shipped 
and  made  no  specific  charge  for  the  use  of  them. 

For  a  more  complete  understanding  of  this  matter,  it  is  necessary  to  review 
briefly  the  entire  subject  of  the  du  Pont  Company's  benzol  procurement  in 
3918.  First,  it  may  be  noted  that  benzol  is  the  basic  raw  material  from  which 
was  produced  the  rather  minute  proportion  (about  0.4  of  1%)  of  diphenylamine 
used  as  a  stabilizer  in  smokeless  powder.  Also,  that  it  is  of  byproduct  charac- 
ter, being  derived  from  the  distillation  of  the  "  light  oil  "  from  coal  tar  pro- 
duced in  byproduct  coke  ovens,  or  from  the  "  scrubbing  "  of  illuminating  gas. 
From  all  this  it  follows  that  benzol  is  a  material  of  relatively  slight  vreight 
in  the  total  cost  of  making  smokeless  powder  but  of  crucial  importance  to  the 
product  itself,  and  that  its  procurement  is  attended  with  the  uncertainties 
which  are  characteristic  of  byproduct  derivatives  generally,  and  which  are 
naturally  accentuated  under  war-time  conditions. 


MUNITIONS   INDUSTRY 


3527 


Late  in  1917,  under  the  influence  of  an  earlier  experience  of  great  diffi- 
culties in  securing  adequate  supplies  of  coal-tar  chemicals,  the  policy  was 
adopted  by  the  du  Pont  Company  of  being  forehanded  with  their  procurement, 
and  contracts  were  made  in  advance  for  the  entire  expected  requirements 
of  benzol  for  the  year  1918.  Tliere  was  of  course  the  chance  that  the  market 
might  decline  before  the  expiration  of  the  1918  contracts.  On  the  other  hand, 
there  was  protection  against  a  possible  advance,  better  assurance  of  a  neces- 
sary supply,  and  the  incentive  of  obtaining  substantial  concession.s  under  the 
prices  prevailing  at  the  time  the  contracts  were  made  by  offering  the  sellers 
the  inducement  of  a  "back-log"  of  assured,  regular  consumption. 

The  earlier  diflBculties  had  led  to  active  developmental  work  on  the  part  of 
the  du  Pont  Company,  by  which  the  sources  of  supply  for  coal-tar  chemicals 
were  considerably  broadened  and  prices  reduced,  and  of  which  one  result  was 
the  establishment  of  the  company's  own  fractionating  unit  at  Deepwater.  The 
major  part,  however,  of  the  entire  1918  benzol  requirements  of  the  du  Pont 
Company's  various  plants  using  that  material,  and  of  Old  Hickory,  was  made 
secure  under  four  contracts  with  regular  byproduct  producers,  for  equal 
monthly'  deliveries  in  tank  cars  from  January  to  December  inclusive,  as 
follows : 


Seller 


Total 
gallons 


Price 


F.o.b. 


Cars  fur- 
nished 
by- 


Woodward  Iron  Co 

Barrett-Semet  Solvay 

Barrett-Bethlehem  Steel 
Corrigan  McKinney 


600,000 
360, 000 
240, 000 
600,000 


Cents 
26 
30 
30 
30 


Woodward,  Ala.. 

Solvav,  N.  Y 

S.  Bethlehem,  Pa 
Cleveland,  Ohio.. 


Buyer. 
Seller. 
Seller. 
Buyer. 


The  recognized  source  of  market  information  on  chemicals  is  the  weekly 
trade  journal,  Oil,  Paint,  and  Drug  Reporter.  Its  quotations  are  commonly 
accepted  as  authoritative.  According  to  this  source,  the  f.o.b.  shipping  point 
prices  on  benzol  during  1918  ranged  from  a  high  of  45  cents  a  gallon  at  the  be- 
ginning down  to  a  low  of  22  cents  at  the  end  of  the  year.  Since  the  total  U.  S. 
production  of  benzol  in  1918  was  approximately  50  million  gallons,  it  is  evident 
that  the  above  contracts,  aggregating  less  than  2  million  gallons,  could  not 
have  had  any  controlling  effect  in  determining  the  market  level. 

The  above-described  contracts,  which  had  been  entered  into  by  the  du  Pont 
Company  in  the  latter  part  of  1917,  were  meant  to  cover  the  probable  full  1918 
l)enzol  requirements  for  the  procurement  of  which  the  company  might  be 
responsible.  When  the  responsibility  for  Old  Hickory's  needs  became  fixed 
through  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  this  provision  Was  found  sufficient 
to  include  them,  and  further  purchases  were  not  made.  These  contracts,  how- 
ever, had  been  entered  into  before  the  authorit.v  had  been  finally  conferred  upon 
the  du  Pont  Company  to  buy  for  Old  Hickory ;  and  under  a  subsequently 
declining  market,  the  general  princinle  was  followed  of  billing  the  shijinients 
to  the  Government  plant  at  current  market  value,  and  letting  the  du  Pont 
Company  absorb  the  difference. 

The  shi)iments  to  Old  Hickory  in  drums  from  the  du  Pont  Company's  own 
plant,  in  May  and  early  June,  were  billed  at  30  cents,  in  accord  with  tlie  then 
prevailing  market.  After  these  initial  shipments,  all  fvu'ther  benzol  for  Old 
Hickory  was  ordered  out  in  tank  cars  from  the  nearby  source  in  Alabama,  in 
order  to  give  that  plant  the  advantage  of  the  favorable  freight  rate.  These 
shipments  were  billed  by  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  and  by  it  to  the 
Government,  at  "the  fair  market  price"  as  nearly  as  we  could  determine  it. 
The  actual  billings  ranged  from  a  high  of  28  cents  a  gallon  in  July  to  a  low 
of  22  cents  in  November.  In  every  case,  these  shipments  wei^e  made  in  du 
Pont  tank  cars.  For  these  cars,  no  specific  charge  was  made  to  the  Govern- 
ment, though  their  use  was  naturally  influential  to  some  extent  in  determining 
the  various  successive  billing  prices  of  the  benzol. 

The  complete  record  of  du  Pont  billings  per  gallon  on  benzol  to  Old  Hickory 
in  comparison  with  the  high-  and  low-market  prices  for  each  month  as  recorded 
by  the  Oil,  Paint,  and  Di'ug  Reporter  is  ns  fellows.  It  should  be  remembered 
that  the  Old  Hickory  shipments  of  the  first  two  months  were  made  in  drums 
and  that  the  shipments  for  the  ensuing  five  months  were  in  tank  cars  owned 


3528 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


and  furnished  for  this  purpose  by  the  du  Pont  Company,  for  the  use  of  which 
no  specific  charge  was  made: 


Months  of  1918 

0.  P.  D.  R.  mar- 
ket quotations 

du  Pont 

Co.'s 
billings 

High 

Low 

to  Old 
Hickory 

$0.45 
.40 
.40 
.35 
.35 
.32 
.30 
.30 
.30 
.27 
.27 
.29 

$0.35 
.35 
.30 
.30 
.28 
.22 
.25 
.23 
.22 
.22 
.22 
.22 

May                                -      -  . 

$0.30 

.30 

July                                                           

.28 

August              -          .             .  .  -  

.27 

.26 

October            .                .._-.. 

.26 

November        -      .  -      

.22 

The  du  Pout  Company's  total  billings  to  the  Government  on  the  benzol 
shipped  to  Old  Hickory  from  Woodward,  Alabama,  were  apprcjxiniately  $1,000 
less  than  the  amount  it  paid  the  Woodward  Iron  Company  for  the  material, 
in  accord  with  its  contract.  The  company  therefore  took  a  loss  on  that  ma- 
terial equal  to  about  $1,000  cash  plus  the  cost  of  furnishing  tank  cars  for  some 
eighteen  shipments. 

Everything  considered,  we  believe  the  company's  prices  to  the  Government 
on  the  benzol  which  it  furnished  to  Old  Hickory  wei-e  reasonable  and  fair, 
and  that  the  course  it  followed  in  that  regard  is  not  properly  a  subject  for 
adverse  criticism. 

OVEKCHARGE  IN  FREIGHT 


This  has  been  fully  covered  above  under  the  title  "  Paragraphs  (c)  &  (d) 
under  '  Cotton.'  " 

UNDERTAKERS,    HOSPITAXS,    ETC. 

Under  this  head  Mr.  Storck's  charges,  so  far  as  they  reflect  upon  Du  Pont 
Engineering  Company,  appear  to  be  essentially  that  the  company  made  un- 
warranted and  wasteful  expenditures  of  Government  funds  in  the  hospitaliza- 
tion and  burial  of  influenza  victims  at  Old  Hickory ;  that  duplicate  payments 
of  hospital  expenses  were  made  by  patients  and  not  credited  to  the  Govern- 
ment ;  that  "  valuables  belonging  to  the  victims  would  be  lost  " ;  and  that  im- 
proper care  was  taken  of  bodies  awaiting  burial.  A  proper  imderstanding  of 
these  accusations  requires  some  knowledge  of  the  basic  facts  of  the  situation  to 
which  they  relate,  and  some  imagination  in  interpreting  the  facts. 

The  Old  Hickory  plant  was  an  industrial  city  of  some  50,000  workers,  sud- 
denly assembled  upon  what  a  few  months  before  had  been  open  farm  land. 
Into  this  community  were  drawn  men  from  every  State  in  the  Union  and  from 
many  foreign  countries.  One  unit  of  the  housing  provided,  for  example,  was 
the  "  Mexican  Village ",  with  qiiarters  for  workers  of  that  nationality  and 
their  families.  Many  families  of  the  American  workers,  of  course,  accompanied 
them  also,  and  were  established  in  the  dwellings  of  which  the  construction 
had  lieen  an  important  part  of  the  undertaking  to  make  this  a  complete, 
self-contained  community,  somewhat  apart  from  any  established  center  of 
population,  as  is  desirable  for  explosives  manufacture.  Naturally,  in  so  hastily 
assembled  a  community,  and  especially  under  war  conditions,  this  population 
included  many  who  came  to  it  in  more  or  less  indigent  circumstances,  many 
of  the  roving  type  without  definite  home  ties,  and  many  whose  physical 
resistance  was  low. 

Into  this  community,  about  the  end  of  September  1918,  the  influenza  epidemic 
struck  with  something  of  the  sudden  fury  and  devastation  of  the  plagues  of  the 
Middle  Ages.  On  a  Saturday  morning,  the  situation  was  first  recognized  as 
acute,  and  that  night  29  employees  died.  In  the  short  space  of  one  mimth, 
there  were  thousands  of  cases  and  a  total  of  465  deaths  occurred  on  the  reserva- 
tion among  the  workers  of  the  Old  Hickory  forces  and  their  families.  Among 
the  Mexicans  and  the  colored  people  of  the  community,  the  disease  and  its  fre- 
quent complications  were  especially  deadly. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3529 

As  soon  as  tlie  serious  nature  of  this  tlireat  became  apparent,  comprehensive 
measures  were  talien  by  the  management  to  cope  with  this  extraordinary  situ- 
ation. With  the  cooperation  of  tlie  U.  S.  Health  Service,  and  with  the  de- 
voted aid  of  a  small  group  of  nuns  in  nursing  especially  the  foreign  element 
of  their  faith,  every  practicable  effort  was  made  to  give  proper  medical  and 
nursing  attention  to  the  stricken.  The  former  medical  staff  of  26  physicians 
was  approximately  trebled  ;  about  one  hundred  new  employees  were  quickly  re- 
cruited for  the  regular  body  of  tirst-aid  men  and  nurses;  and  a  number  of 
temporary  hospitals  were  at  once  imprcnised  and  brought  into  use.  There  was 
no  panic :  and  the  mea.sures  adopted  were  deliberate,  well  organized,  and  we 
believe  reasonably  adequate  and  entirely  proper.  Inevitably,  there  w;is  snme 
confusion  and  lack  of  perfection  in  the  methods  and  facilities  so  hastily  de- 
veloped; but  the  results,  we  believe,  will  be  found  to  have  compared  favorably 
with  those  obtained  anywhere  else  under  circumstances  at  all  comparable. 

Wherever  the  patient's  condition  was  observed  to  be  desperate,  and  in  every 
case  of  death,  efforts  were  made  to  establish  contact  with  the  relatives  or  near 
friends  of  the  victim.  These  in  many  cases  came  to  Nashville,  or  provided  the 
necessary  cost  of  special  hospital  attention  or  of  burial.  In  some  cases  of 
deaths  the  establishment  of  contact  with  distant  relatives  was  prevented  by  the 
insistence  of  the  State  health  authorities,  perhaps  reasonable  and  proper,  upon 
interment  within  a  definite  period. 

AVhere  the  necessary  funds  were  not  available  from  private  sources,  an  ap- 
peal was  made  to  the  county  authorities  to  provide  burials,  but  they  declined 
to  stand  this  expense,  on  the  ground  that  many  of  the  victims  were  not  regular 
residents  of  Davidson  County  or  of  Tennessee,  nor  a  permanent  part  of  the 
community.  Arrangements  were  then  made  with  the  local  authorities  for 
space  in  an  established  burial  ground,  at  a  rate  of  $11.00  for  each  burial ;  and 
similar  general  arrangements  were  made  with  Wiles  Brothers,  a  firm  of  under- 
takers in  Nashville,  for  the  interments.  The  things  done  in  each  case  by  Wiles 
Brothers  included  embalming  the  body,  providing  a  coffin,  transporting  the  re- 
mains to  the  cemetery,  and  the  actual  work  of  burial.  At  the  outset,  a  rate 
of  $75.00  for  these  services  was  informally  agreed  upon ;  shortly  afterward 
this  was  reduced  at  the  company's  demand  to  $55.00,  on  account  of  the  in- 
creased volume  of  work ;  and  when  the  lull  force  of  the  plague  became  apparent, 
a  rate  of  $32.00  per  liurial  was  arrived  at  by  further  active  negotiati(m  l/etween 
Wiles  Brotbers  and  representatives  of  the  company.  Where  the  victims  of  the 
epidemic  died  without  funds  and  without  relatives  or  friends  who  could  pro- 
vide the  cost,  these  necessary  miniuuun  burial  expenses,  which  the  local  author- 
ities had  refused  to  pay,  were  paid  by  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  and 
charged  to  the  Government  as  a  necessary  part  of  the  expense  of  the  Old 
Hickory  undertaking.  In  many  cases,  however,  the  records  indicate  that  small 
unpaid  balances  of  wages  were  finally  credited  to  the  Government  in  part  pay- 
ment of  these  burial  charges. 

The  specifications  for  coffins  and  burials  provided  by  local  law  were  ob- 
served, and  the  results  are  believed  to  have  been  comparable  with  those  gen- 
erally prevailing  in  case  of  burials  at  public  expense.  The  undertaking  work 
provided  at  Government  expense  was  all  done  by  Wiles  Brothers  because  no 
other  undertakers  within  reach  were  found  equipped  and  willing  to  undertake 
it  on  an  equally  favorable  basis.  Relatives  providing  the  expense  of  burials, 
of  course,  made  their  owni  choice  of  undertakers,  and  their  own  financial  ar- 
rangements with  the  firms  chosen.  About  three-fourths  of  the  total  numbers 
of  burials  necessary  were  thus  privately  provided  for. 

In  the  absence  of  any  citation  by  him  of  examples,  it  is  somewhat  difficult 
to  reply  to  Mr.  Storck's  accusation  of  duplicate  payments  of  hospital  expense 
without  credit  to  the  Government.  We  can  discover  no  evidence  of  an.v  such 
case,  or  for  any  element  of  that  nature  in  the  final  findings  of  the  Government's 
investigators,  though  it  is,  of  course,  not  impossible  that  .some  instance  of  that 
sort  may  have  escaped  the  vigilance  of  both  the  company's  and  the  Government's 
accountants.  In  general,  where  patients  or  their  x-elatives  w^ere  able  to  pay 
for  hospital  care,  the  arrangements,  were  made  privately  between  them  and 
some  one  of  the  hospitals  in  Nashville,  and  did  not  figure  in  any  way  in  the 
du  Pont  Engineering  Company's  accounting.  In  connection  with  the  question 
of  extravagance  in  hospital  care  provided  at  Government  expense,  it  is  per- 
haps significant  that  the  records  of  the  hospital  charges  paid  by  the  com- 
pany indicate  a  uniform  rate  of  only  $2  per  day  per  patient. 

Mr.  Storck's  statement  about  the  handling  of  corpses  without  clothing  is  an 
echo  of  a  charge  which  had  some  local  currency  and  which  was  taken  up  by 


3530  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

the  Tennessee  State  Health  Department.  There  was  certainly  no  general  con- 
dition corresponding  with  this  charge,  and  we  believe  it  was  entirely  unjusti- 
fied. The  company's  representatives  suggested  at  once  to  the  authorities  who 
were  ct»nsidering  this  matter  that  any  number  or  all  of  the  recently  interred 
bodies  be  exhumed,  and  offered  to  stand  the  entire  expense  of  this  work  and 
of  providing  proper  rel)urials  if  in  any  single  instance  this  accusation  was 
found  justitied ;  but  the  authorities,  after  investigation,  thought  it  not  worth 
while  to  act  upon  this  proposal. 

As  is  usual  in  connection  with  calamities  of  this  sort,  some  of  the  worst 
as  well  as  the  best  in  human  nature  was  apparent.  In  two  cases,  one  involving 
a  male  nurse  and  the  other  an  office  worker,  employees  were  caught  attempting 
to  pilfer  the  personal  effects  of  influenza  patients  who  had  died.  Both  men 
were  immediately  discharged. 

Although  not  entirely  explicit  on  this  point,  Mr.  Storck's  report  seems  to 
indicate  the  view  on  his  part  that  the  expenditures  made  for  the  measures 
described  above  and  charged  into  costs  at  Old  Hickory  were  an  unwarranted 
used  of  Government  funds.  We  believe  not.  The  case  was  comparable  to  one 
of  shipwreck,  and  the  simple  things  done  for  the  unfortunate  victims  of  this 
plague  were  in  response  to  basic  claims  of  humanity  which  we  believe  trans- 
cend the  technical  considerations  with  which  Mr.  Storck  concerned  himself. 
No  greater  degree  of  liberality  was  indulged  in  under  du  Ponti  management 
at  Old  Hickoi-y  than  in  the  company's  own  plants,  which  were  under  its 
exclusive  ownership  as  well  as  operation.  IMoreover,  every  expenditure  made 
was  either  authorized  on  the  spot  at  the  time,  or  thereafter  approved,  by 
the  duly  accredited  representatives  of  the  Government.  Finally,  Army  officers 
who,  with  the  aid  of  operatives  from  the  Department  of  Justice,  investigated 
this  whole  matter  actively  at  Old  Hickory  in  1919,  professed  themselves  fully 
satisfied. 

In  general,  taking  all  of  Mr.  Storck's  charges  imder  this  head  compre- 
hensively in  review,  it  may  be  said  that  the  stories  he  relates  are  a  manifest 
repetition  of  the  sensational  gossip  which  became  current  in  certain  quarters 
around  Nashville,  and  which  was  probably  traceable  in  large  measure  to  the 
disgruntlement  of  certain  former  employees  who  had  been  discharged  for  cause. 

MASON    &    HAKGEB   CO.    SXJBCONTKACTORS 

The  subject  of  the  employment  of  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company  is  broadly 
covered  in  exhibit  no.  1173  under  the  subhead  "  Mason  &  Hanger  Company." 
It  may  be  pointed  out  here,  however,  that  when  the  War  Department  finally 
decided  to  have  one  of  its  powder  plants  built  by  the  du  Pont  Company,  speed 
was  of  the  essence  of  the  undertaking.  Powder  plants  must  be  in  locations 
somewliat  remote ;  and  one  of  the  first  things  necessary  was  to  build  some 
eight  miles  of  railroad  connecting  the  plant  site  with  established  transporta- 
tion lines  in  order  to  bring  in  the  necessary  construction  materials.  For  this 
job,  the  schedule  worked  out  by  the  du  Pont  engineers  allowed  only  thirty 
days ;  and  to  save  time,  it  was  found  desirable  to  employ  at  once  an  established 
firm  of  railroad  contractors  who  would  be  already  provided  with  the  necessary 
steam  shovels  and  other  heavy  equipment  regularly  used  for  railroad  con- 
struction. 

For  this  purpose,  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company,  a  well-established,  highly 
regarded  firm  of  contractors,  located  in  the  adjacent  State  of  Kentucky,  were 
at  once  selected  and  engaged.  It  developed  that  the  firm  had  also  been  doing 
some  cantonment  work;  and  its  already  organized  construction  crews  in  that 
field  were  thrown  into  the  job  of  building  the  necessary  plant  village,  under 
the  engineering  supervision  of  the  du  Pont  organization.  The  construction 
of  certain  general  facilities,  and  especially  the  heavy  work  of  cutting  down 
hills  and  grading  for  plant  units,  for  which  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company 
were  already  equipped  and  organized,  was  entrusted  to  tliem,  while  the  du 
Pont  engineering  and  construction  forces  proper  concentrated  their  direct 
efforts  upon  the  building  of  the  huge  plant,  or  aggregation  of  plants,  itself. 

The  performance  of  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company  in  the  physical  execution 
of  the  work  enti'usted  to  them,  and  their  willing  spirit  of  fair  dealing  in  the 
business  relatiimsliip  involved,  were  found  to  be  fully  in  accord  witli  the  ex- 
cellent reputation  they  had  been  known  to  enjoy.  Their  compensation  (some- 
what reduced  by  concessions  they  freely  made  upon  questionable  iMtints)  was 
on  the  basis  of  cost  plus  5%  ;  and  since  the  work  they  did  amounted  to  about 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3531 

one-fourth  of  the  total  construction  cost  of  Old  Hickory,  it  may  be  said  that 
the  du  Pont  company's  fee  of  one  dollar  for  building  that  plant  covered  the 
direct  execution  of  three-fourths  of  the  actual  work  of  construction  plus  the 
general   supervision    of,    and   responsibility   for,    the    remaining   fourth. 

Mr.  Storck  charges  an  overpayment  in  fees  to  the  amount  of  some  $826,000. 
That  amount,  we  assume,  he  arrived  at  by  the  simple  expedient  of  applying 
against  the  contract  rate  of  5%  for  overhead  and  profit  which  was  paid  to 
Mason  &  Hanger  Company  upon  approximately  $21,500,000  worth  of  construc- 
tion work  an  obscure  War  Department  regulation  limiting  the  fee  which  could 
be  paid  to  a  subcontractor  to  $250,000. 

Neither  the  du  Pont  Company  nor  its  officers  had  any  knowledge  of  this 
regulation,  and  never  knew  of  it  until  after  the  work  was  completed,  when  this 
technical  question  was  raised  in  1920  in  one  of  the  numerous  audits  following 
the  armistice.  The  contract  between  the  Government  and  the  du  Pont  Engi- 
neering Company  for  the  construction  and  operation  of  Old  Hickory  made  no 
mention,  and  gave  no  intimation,  of  any  such  regulation,  but  expressly  author- 
ized the  Company  to  sublet  any  part  of  the  necessary  construction ;  and  the 
contract  with  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company,  before  being  entered  into,  had  been 
submitted  to  and  approved  by,  the  Government's  own  "  Special  Director  ",  repre- 
senting the  Secretary  of  War.  Moreover,  there  were  numerous  subsequent  ap- 
provals by  duly  authorized  Government  representatives  of  the  payments  made 
by  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  in  settlement  of  this  previously  approved 
5%  fee  to  Mason  &  Hanger  Company. 

When  this  question  came  at  last  to  be  settled,  the  whole  matter  was  referred 
finally  to  the  Attorney  General,  who,  after  active  and  no  doubt  thorough  con- 
sideration, officially  decided  that  the  limitation  in  question  had  no  proper  appli- 
cation to  the  Mason  &  Hanger  contract  and  that  the  entire  amount  of  the  5% 
fee  which  had  been  paid  by  the  du  Pout  Engineering  Company  was  fully 
warranted  under  its  contract  with  the  Government,  and  settlement  was  made 
accordingly. 

UNBEILATED  ITEMS  LISTED  UNDEIR  UEAU  OF  MASON  &  HANGEK  CO. 

Under  the  same  heading,  but  evidently  with  no  actual  relation  whatever  to 
the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company,  Mr.  Storck  lists  six  other  items,  aggregating 
approximately  681,000,  which  he  says  (correcting  obvious  errors  of  typing) 
"  cannot  in  any  sense  of  the  word  be  allowed  ",  and  three  more  items,  amount- 
ing to  just  over  $708,000,  of  which  he  thinks  that  "  a  portion  may  be  accepted 
by  a  claim  board  acting  for  the  Secretary  of  War."  The  entire  nine  items,  with, 
such  comment  as  appears  necessary,  are,  in  order,  as  follows : 

1.  "Inapplicable  administrative  expenses  (E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.)^ 
$171,872.26." 

We  have  been  unable  to  determine  with  certainty  just  what  was  in  Mr, 
Storck's  mind  at  this  point.  Although  the  figures  do  not  agree,  it  appears  most 
likely  that  he  refers  to  the  expenses  of  managerial  and  supervisory  employees 
of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Company,  incurred  while  engaged  on  necessary 
work  which  was  done  in  various  departments  of  the  parent  company  as  part  of 
the  undertaking  to  construct  and  operate  the  Old  Hickory  plant,  and  therefore 
charged   to   the  Government. 

The  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  was  of  course  not  a  fully  self-contained 
and  independent  unit.  On  the  contrary,  in  accord  not  only  with  the  full  knowl- 
edge but  also  with  the  active  desires  of  the  Government,  the  entire  resources 
of  the  parent  company  were  held  fully  at  its  disposal ;  and  wherever  a  particular 
undertaking  or  activity  could  be  carried  out  more  advantageously  at  Wilming- 
ton or  by  some  branch  of  the  Wilmington  organization,  that  course  was  fol- 
lowed. A  careful  account  was  kept  of  the  time  expended  by  du  Pont  Company 
employees  on  each  of  the  several  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  projects;  and 
charges  were  made  accordingly,  on  a  project  basis. 

In  addition  to  the  "  direct "  elements  of  the  cost  of  this  work,  such  as  the 
salaries  of  the  engineers,  draftsmen,  purchasing  agents,  traffic  men,  and  so 
on,  immediately  engaged  in  it,  there  was,  of  course,  a  corresponding  apportion- 
ment of  the  supervisory  costs  of  the  several  Wilmington  departments  involved. 
This  "  indirect "  expense  was  arrived  at  in  each  department  by  the  usual 
method  of  simply  prorating  the  total  of  such  indirect  costs  for  each  month 
over  the  direct  costs  of  all  the  projects  handled,  in  proportion  to  volume. 
The  total  indirect,  or  administrative,  expense  of  E.  I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours 
83876 — 35— PT  14 24 


3532 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 


&  Company  thus  charged  agaiust  the  Old  Hickory  construction  and  operation 
projects  was  as  follows : 


Construction: 

Engineering  Dept 

Purchasing  Dept 

Traffic  Dept 

Operating: 

Smokeless  Powder  Operating  Dept- 

Purchasing  Dept— 

Traffic  Dept 


Salary  and 
traveling 
expense 


$54, 692. 45 


14, 960.  45 
83,  776. 45 


3, 045. 90 


156, 475. 25 


All  other 
indirect 


$63, 904. 98 
8,  522.  23 
3, 736. 95 

6, 665. 15 

1,  725.  28 

757  50 


85, 312.  09 


Total  indi- 
rect ex- 
pense 


$118, 597. 43 
8, 522.  23 
18, 697.  40 

90,  441.  60 
1,  725.  28 
3, 803. 40 


241, 787. 34 


In  the  final  settlement,  the  above  first-column  total  of  $156,475.25  for  salaries 
and  traveling  expense  was  approved  and  paid.  Exception  was  taken  by  the 
Government  auditors  on  technical  grounds,  however,  to  the  second-column 
total  of  $85,312.09  for  all  other  indirect  expense,  in  which  had  been  included 
an  entirely  similar  appo^'tionment  of  the  equally  real  costs  for  rent,  light, 
fuel,  ofiice  supplies,  and  the  various  other  items  which  go  to  make  up  the 
necessary  cost  of  maintaining  staff  oi'ganizations ;  and  jn  the  interest  of 
securing  a  final  settlement,  this  exception  was  accepted  by  the  company. 

2.  "Shop  orders  (contractors'  allowed  credit),  $88,376.71." 

The  plant  equipment  and  machinery  used  in  the  modern  manufacture  of 
smokeless  powder  is  largely  of  special  character,  and  to  a  considerable  extent 
of  du  Pont  design.  Under  the  conditions  prevailing  when  the  company  under- 
took to  build  the  Old  Hickory  plant  for  the  Government,  it  appeared  unsafe 
to  risk  the  delays  that  might  be  involved  in  placing  orders  for  the  necessary 
special  equipment  with  commercial  machine  shops.  By  agreement  between 
the  company  and  the  Government,  it  was  therefore  at  once  decided  that  the 
du  Pont  Company  would  itself  build  this  equipment ;  and  suitable  additional 
machine-shop  facilities  at  Wilmington  were  bought  for  this  purpose,  brought 
under  the  management  of  the  company's  engineering  department,  and  at  once 
converted  to  the  production,  at  high  speed,  of  the  necessary  special  equipment 
for  the  Old  Hickory  plant. 

The  manufacture  of  this  machinery  was,  of  course,  not  in  any  ordinary 
sense  a  part  of  the  undertaking  to  build  the  Old  Hickory  plant,  which  the 
company  had  agreed  to  do  without  profit.  If  the  quite  proper  alternative  had 
been  adopted  of  contracting  with  commercial  manufacturers  for  the  produc- 
tion of  this  machinery,  they  would  naturally  have  earned  profits ;  and  in 
undertaking  this  separate  though  related  venture  at  the  cost  of  a  substantial 
investment  and  a  considerable  risk,  it  was  the  company's  feeling  that  it  should 
be  similarly  compensated.  This  view  was  shared  by  the  Government's  rep- 
resentatives ;  and  on  the  same  date  with  the  signing  of  the  final  Old  Hickory 
contract,  a  separate  agreement  was  executed  with  the  Government  under  which 
the  du  Pont  Company  was  authorized  to  build  this  machinery  for  Old  Hickory 
in  its  own  shops  for  cost  plus  10%. 

Subsequently,  however,  the  du  Pont  Company  voluntarily  waived  its  right  to 
this  10%  compensation,  and  settled  with  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company 
on  the  basis  of  actual  costs,  including  amortization  of  the  special  facilities 
which  had  been  provided  for  producing  this  equipment.  The  total  amount  of 
the  agreed  compensation  thus  waived  by  the  company  was  approximately 
$734,000,  while  the  amount  of  amortization  included  in  the  charges  was  about 
$475,000,  making  the  saving  which  resulted  to  the  Government  from  this 
voluntary  concession  approximately  $259,000. 

3.  "Railroad  charges    (N.  C.  &  St.  L.  Rv.),  $110,000.00." 

4.  "Audit  of  subcontracts  (N.  C.  &  St.  L.  Ry.  and  T.  C.  R.  R.),  $131,447.14." 

5.  "  Duplicate  payments  made  to  N.  C.  &  St.  L.  Ry.  on  subcontracts, 
$112,081.92." 

After  persistent  study,  we  are  unable  to  determine  just  what  Mr.  Storck  is 
driving  at  in  his  enumeration  of  these  three  items. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3533 

Prior  to  the  dii  Pont  Company's  taking  hold  for  the  Government  at  Old 
Hickory,  a  contract  had  heen  made  by  tlie  Government  with  the  N.  C.  &  St.  L. 
Railway  to  build  the  necessary  spur  line  from  its  tracks  to  the  plant  site, 
on  the  basis  of  cost  plus  10%.  When  the  du  Pont  Company  became  re- 
sponsible for  the  Old  Hickory  undertaking,  serious  concern  was  felt  by  it  as 
to  the  promptness  with  which  the  railroad  might  be  able  to  complete  this 
vital  preliminary  work ;  and  the  company  arranged,  with  the  Government's 
approval,  to  have  this  job  taken  over  by  the  Mason  cSc  Hanger  Company,  who, 
as  explained  above,  were  well  organized  and  successful  railroad  contractors 
with  ample  equipment,  and  whom  it  induced  to  build  this  spur  line  on 
a  cost  plus  5%  basis,  thus  saving  5%  to  the  Government.  Of  course,  this 
rearrangement  involved  paying  the  N.  O.  &  St.  L.  Railway  for  the  work 
already  done  by  them. 

Mr.  Storck's  figures,  however,  do  not  appear  to  tie  in  with  those  involved 
in  these  arrangements,  nor  with  any  particular  amounts  which  became  impor- 
tant in  the  long  course  of  investigations  and  discussions  leading  up  to  the 
final  settlement ;  and  we  are  at  a  loss  to  make  any  comment  on  his  figures 
without  the  opportunity  of  finding  out  definitely  what  he  had  in  mind.  Perhaps 
it  is  a  sufficient  answer  here  to  say  that  no  such  items  were  disallowed  in  the 
final  settlement,  which  presumably  embodied  all  the  Government's  important 
findings  after  years  of  study  by  the  War  Department  and  the  Department  of 
Justice  of  all  the  \vide  range  of  questions  which  had  been  raised  and  accusa- 
tions which  had  been  made  against  the  company,  including  those  in  the  Storck 
memorandum.  It  would  appear  most  likely  that  these  three  items  represent 
simply  another  of  the  numerous  mare's  nests  of  which  the  fabric  of  that 
remarkable  document  is  largely  constructed. 

6.  "  Pay-roll  overpayments,  $61,591.94." 

Here  again,  we  have  been  unable  to  determine  just  what  Mr.  Storck  had  in 
mind.  No  such  item  or  amount  figures  in  the  disallowances  which  were  in- 
cluded in  the  final  settlement,  nor,  so  far  as  we  can  now  discover,  in  the 
attendant  discussions.  The  final  settlement  did  include  disallowances  of  what 
the  Government  construed  as  slight  excesses  in  the  payment  by  the  du  Pont 
Engineering  Company  of  termination  allowances  to  salaried  employees,  and  of 
return  traveling  expenses  allowed  to  both  pay  roll  and  salaried  employees,  but 
the  total  of  these  items  was  only  a  small  fraction  of  the  amount  referred  to  here 
by  Mr.  Storck.  There  were,  so  far  as  we  can  now  discover,  or  so  far  as  the 
final  settlement  indicates,  no  pay-roll  overpayments  of  any  consequence ;  and 
approximately  $1.50.000  in  unclaimed  wages  was  turned  over  to  the  Government 
at  the  time  of  the  final  settlement  on  October  31,  1925. 

7.  "  Meritorious  bonus,  $151,355.00." 

It  has  been  for  many  years  a  regular  principle  of  operation  of  the  du  Pont 
Company  to  pay  special  awards,  or  bonuses,  for  outstandingly  meritorious  and 
productive  service.  Such  bonuses,  although  contingent  as  to  occurrence  and 
amount,  are  not  gratuities,  but  part  of  the  employee's  compensation,  and  ai*e 
so  recognized  by  the  Government  in  its  collection  of  income  taxes.  In  the 
practice  of  the  du  Pont  Company,  these  bonus  awards  are  of  relatively  moder- 
ate individual  amounts  and  of  relatively  wide-spread  occurrence  among  men 
who  successfully  carry  out  important  responsibilities.  The  conditional  right 
of  outstandingly  capable  employees  to  receive  such  awards  is  well  established 
by  long  usage  in  the  company,  and  is  therefore  one  of  the  regular  incentives 
for  ambitious  men  to  enter  and  remain  in  its  employment  and  give  their  best 
efforts  in  support  of  its  imdertakings.  This  principle  of  seeking  to  relate  the 
ultimate  reward  to  the  actual  results  and  value  of  the  service  rendered  is 
believed  to  be  in  accord  with  the  fundamentals  of  human  nature,  and  therefore 
sound  and  "  good  business  ",  and  its  successful  application  is  among  the  factors 
to  which  such  success  as  the  company  has  been  able  to  achieve  is  accredited. 

In  undertaking  for  the  Government  the  enormous  task  of  building  and  oper- 
ating the  Old  Hickory  powder  plant,  it  was  thought  highly  important  to  have 
the  advantage  of  this  principle :  the  more  so  because  the  men  upon  whose 
individual  performance  in  the  direction  and  control  of  this  work  success  must 
depend,  were  for  the  most  part  accustomed  to  this  principle  of  du  Pont  Com- 
pany operation,  and  because  the  circumstances  of  the  undertaking  maile  it 
important  to  overlook  no  opportunity  for  calling  forth  the  last  unit  of  "  drive" 


3534  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

and  i-esoiux-efulness  in  completing  every  successive  step  of  the  task  at  the 
earliest  possible  moment. 

In  the  discussions  which  attended  formulation  of  the  contract,  this  view 
was"^shared  by  the  representatives  of  the  Government;  and  in  the  contract 
itself,  provision  was  expressly  made  for  paying  extra  compensation  in  order 
to  expedite  the  work  of  construction,  subject  to  the  approval  of  the  contract- 
ing officer,  and  for  charging  such  payments  into  the  cost  of  construction. 
Since  the  plant  was  to  be  built  for  actual  cost  plus  one  dollar,  the  propriety 
and  necessity  of  this  last  provision,  in  relation  to  the  cost  of  constriwtion, 
will  be  apparent.  In  operating  the  plant,  on  the  other  hand,  the  contract  pro- 
vided compensation  for  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company,  v.nd  all  bonus 
awards  were  made  and  paid  by  the  company  itself,  without  any  suggestion 
of  passing  the  cost  of  the  operating  bonuses  along  to  the  Government. 

In  accord  with  the  relevant  provision  of  the  contract,  the  express  approval 
of  the  Government's  contracting  officer  was  secured  for  the  awards  proposed 
before  any  award  was  made.  Subsequently,  when  this  element  of  construction 
cost  came  to  be  questioned  in  the  course  of  the  long  and  active  review  which 
preceded  the  final  settlement  of  October  31,  1925,  the  principle  was  reaffirmed 
and  the  charge  for  bonus  awards  was  finally  approved  as  a  proper  expenditure 
to  be  reimbursed  by  the  Government. 

The  total  amount  of  all  bonuses  awarded  and  charged  to  the  Government 
for  outstanding  work  in  the  construction  of  the  Old  Hickory  plant  was  $151,355. 
The  total  cost  of  construction  on  which  these  awards  were  based  (including 
the  approximately  $21,00,000  of  work  done  by  the  Mason  &  Hanger  Company 
under  du  Pont  Engineering  supervision)  was  approximately  $84,000,000.  The 
results  speak  for  themselves.  We  believe  there  can  be  no  question,  not  only 
that  this  expenditure  was  entirely  regular  and  proper  and  in  accord  with  the 
contract  between  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  and  the  Government, 
but  also  that  it  was  a  sound  and  productive  expenditure,  which  more  than 
justified  itself  in  the  results  obtained. 

In  this  connection,  reference  is  also  made  to  the  statements  below  under 
the  headig  "  The  Investigation  ",  item  no.  6,  "  Bonus  Awards." 

8.  "  Extra  compensation,  wages,  and  salaries  paid  after  discontinuing  serv- 
ices (no  services  rendered),  $286,319.47." 

It  has  for  many  years  been  the  practice  of  the  du  Pont  Company  to  pay 
to  salaried  employees  whose  service  is  discontinued  through  no  fault  of  their 
own,  one  month's  salary,  in  lieu  of  notice.  This  practice  was  carried  out  at 
Old  Hickory,  just  as  it  was  at  the  company's  own  plants. 

It  was  the  manifest  intent  of  the  Government  in  connection  with  the  Old 
Hickory  undertaking,  confirmed  in  numerous  express  authorizations,  that  the 
du  Pont  Company's  successful  labor  policies  and  established  practices  in  its 
relations  with  its  employees  should  be  followed.  Moreover,  the  Old  Hickory 
contract  provided  that  in  the  event  of  cancelation  by  the  Government,  "  the 
United  States  will  hold  the  contractor  harmless  from  all  loss  resulting  from 
such  cancelation,  exclusive  of  any  projts."  On  these  grounds,  it  was  believed, 
and  this  belief  was  fully  concurred  in  by  the  authorized  representatives  of  the 
Government,  that  the  discontinuance  allowance  of  one  month's  salary  was  a 
necessaiT  cost  to  be  paid  by  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  and  a  proper 
charge  to  be  reimbursed  by  the  Government.  When  the  expenditures  came 
later  to  be  challenged  by  the  Government's  auditors,  this  view  was  ratified 
both  by  the  War  Department  and  by  the  Department  of  Justice;  and  in  the 
final  settlement  of  October  31,  1925,  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  was 
reimbursed  accordingly. 

We  have  been  unable  exactly  to  check  Mr.  Storck's  figure  of  $286,319.47. 
The  total  amount  of  these  discontinuance  payments  finally  reimbursed  by 
the  Government  was  $268,334.52.  In  the  final  settlement  further  amounts 
which  had  been  paid  on  this  account,  in  accord  with  the  parent  company's 
practice  of  somewhat  increasing  the  allowance  in  case  of  employees  of  long 
service,  were  disallowed ;  but  the  total  amount  of  such  disallowances  was  less 
than  $2,000. 

9.  "  Transportation  and  moving  of  household  goods  after  discharge  of 
employees,  $270,355.77." 

Reference  has  already  been  made  to  the  Government's  firm  policy,  following 
the  armistice,  of  a  gradual  and  orderly  demobilization  of  the  forces  which 
had   been    engaged    in    war   plants   on   Government   work.     With   a    new    and 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3535 

unsettled  community  such  as  had  been  called  into  being  at  Old  Hickory  by 
the  gathering  together  from  all  directions  of  a  highly  diversified  force  of 
some  50,000  workers,  the  importance  of  such  orderly  dispersal  will  be  apparent. 

In  these  circumstances,  in  order  to  avert  hardship  and  insure  prompt  and 
orderly  demobilization,  and  in  common  fairness  to  the  workers  whose  employ- 
ment had  been  suddenly  terminated,  the  necessity  was  apparent  to  the  Du 
Pont  Engineering  Company,  and  promptly  assented  t<t  by  the  Government's 
representatives,  of  providing  for  the  discharged  employees'  return  transporta- 
tion to  their  homes,  or  to  points  not  more  distant  at  which  there  might  be 
better  opportunities  for  new  employment.  Again,  in  recruiting  the  large  num- 
ber of  salaried  workers  necessary  for  the  supervisory,  technical,  and  clerical 
organizations  at  Old  Hickory,  it  had  been  found  necessary  in  many  cases,  on 
account  of  the  comparative  remoteness  of  the  location  and  the  uncertainty  of 
continuance  of  employment,  to  assure  the  men  engaged  that  return  transporta- 
tion would  be  provided  in  the  event  the  employment  should  come  to  an  end 
within  six  months  or  a  year;  and  such  assurance  had  been  quite  generally 
given.  This  benefit  of  return  transportation  was  therefore  made  general  in 
its  application.  The  very  small  proportion  of  moving  expense  on  household 
Ijoods  included  in  this  account  applied  to  certain  cases  where,  in  order  to 
secure  the  services  of  specially  qualified  and  desirable  employees,  it  had  been 
necessary  to  include  that  item  as  part  of  the  compensation  agreed  upon  in  the 
conti'act  of  employment. 

Here  again,  as  in  case  of  the  preceding  item,  the  propriety  of  this  element 
of  expense  was  assented  to  at  the  time  by  the  Government's  representatives, 
ratified  in  the  subsequent  investigations  by  the  War  Department  and  the 
Department  of  Justice,  and  finally  confirmed  in  the  settlement  contract  of 
October  31,  1925. 

On  this  account  a  total  of  slightly  under  $265,000  was  expended  by  the  Du 
Pont  Engineering  Company,  and  reimbursed  to  it  by  the  Government,  in 
addition,  there  were  expenditures  of  approximately  $3,000  by  the  company 
which  were  disallowed  by  the  Government's  auditors  and  excluded  in  the 
final  settlement,  representing  a  total  of  small  excesses  incurred  in  sending 
workers  to  points  of  prospective  reemployment,  over  the  amounts  strictly 
allowable  under  the  above  rule  of  paying  for  transportation  only  to  a  point 
not  more  distance  than  that  from  which  the  worker  had  been  originally 
employed.  When  one  stops  to  imagine  the  circumstances  attending  the  hurried 
purchasing  of  railroad  tickets  for  many  thousands  of  suddenly  released 
workers  from  all  parts  of  the  country,  the  inevitability  of  slight  discrepancies 
of  this  sort  will  be  apparent. 

The  above  two  figures  of  $265,000  and  $3,000  approximately  balance  Mr. 
Storck's  figure  of,  roundly,  $270,000. 

STATEMENT 

The  accusations  made  imder  this  head  are  very  broad,  and  there  is  little 
specific  to  reply  to.  It  can  only  be  said  that  the  sweeping  charges  of  irregu- 
larities, which  Mr.  Storck  estimated  would  amount  to  "  something  over 
$3,000,000 ",  are  without  any  adequate  justification,  and  that  the  general 
groundlessness  of  these  charges  was  fully  demonstrated  in  the  investigation 
of  them  by  the  Department  of  Justice,  as  well  as  by  the  War  Department. 
The  suspension  of  the  long  series  of  305  vouchers  referred  to  was  of  course 
simply  a  normal  procedure  to  hold  up  final  settlement  pending  the  results 
of  the  re-audit.  The  statement  quoted  from  Major  Guise  under  date  of 
November  30,  1920,  that  even  the  original  advance  of  $18,750,000  for  con- 
struction had  been  suspended  might  even  seem  at  first  glance  to  indicate 
a  question  as  to  whether  any  plant  ever  had  been  built  at  Old  Hickory  at 
all !  It  is  quite  evident  that  Mr.  Storck  was  anxious  to  have  a  comprehensive 
investigation. 

Perhaps  the  best  answer  that  can  be  made  to  these  broad  charges  is  to 
summarize  briefly  the  essentials  of  the  final  settlement  by  which  the  Old 
Hickory  contract  was  closed  out  on  October  31,  1925.  The  amount  of  investi- 
gation and  critical  study  devoted  by  the  Government  to  the  Du  Pont  Engineer- 
ing Company's  expenditures  at  Old  Hickory  over  the  seven  years  lietween  the 
activities  for  which  they  were  incurred  and  the  date  of  final  settlement  was 
indicated  in  the  oral  testimony  given  before  the  present  Committee;  and  the 


3536  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

accounting  methods  involved  are  sufficiently  described  in  its  Exhibit  No.  1199. 
In  the  final  settlement,  against  total  net  costs  of  approximately  $108,000,000 
for  the  construction  and  operation  of  the  Old  Hickory  plant,  the  total  amount 
of  tlie  finally  disallowed  items  WAfi  somewhat  over  $169,000,  or  less  than  one- 
seventh  of  1%  of  the  total  expenditures.  Of  that  total  of  disallowances, 
something  less  than  one-fifth  was  in  the  sort  of  corrections  naturally  to  be 
expected  in  an  undertaking  of  such  size  and  complexity,  while  at  least  four- 
fifths  was  in  exclusions  made  upon  highly  technical  grounds,  of  which  we  did 
not  and  do  not  admit  the  propriety,  but  which  were  accepted  by  us  in  the 
interest  of  a  final  settlement  after  long  years  of  continued  suspense  and 
harassment. 

Of  this  $169,000  total,  roughly  half  was  in  the  $85,000  of  Wilmington  office 
expense  described  above  in  connection  with  Mr.  Storck's  first  "  Unrelated 
item  "  under  the  head  of  "  Mason  &  Hanger  Company."  The  biggest  remain- 
ing item,  amounting  to  nearly  $J56,000,  resulted  from  insistence  by  the  Gov- 
ernment auditors  on  a  strictly  literal  interpretation  of  a  possibly  ambiguous 
expression  in  the  contract.  It  will  be  x'ecalled  that  luider  the  contract  of 
March  23,  191S',  the  Du  Pont  Engineering  Company's  compensation  for  pro- 
ducing pov.der  at  Old  Hickory  was  to  be  a  flat  rate  of  3%  cents  a  pound 
plus  one-half  of  any  saving  under  a  base  price  of  44i/^  cents,  at  certain  speci- 
fied levels  of  delivered  cost  for  the  basic  raw  materials.  In  the  wording  of 
the  contract,  these  basic  raw  material  cost  figures  were  defined  as  representing 
the  prices  "  f.  o.  b.  Nashville,  Tennessee."  Delivery  at  the  city  of  Nashville 
was,  of  course,  never  contemplated ;  the  thing  always  intended  was  delivery 
at  the  point  of  consumption,  which  was  the  plant ;  and  in  drafting  the  con- 
tract in  advance  of  the  existence  of  any  plant,  the  word  "  Nashville "  had 
quite  naturally  been  used  in  a  broad  sense  to  represent  the  point  of  delivery 
of  the  materials  that  would  be  necessary.  When  deliveries  came  to  be  taken, 
the  plant  freight  yards,  although  in  common  contemplation  a  part  of  the  indus- 
trial area  of  Nashville,  were  given  a  different  name ;  and  for  the  transpor- 
tation of  its  materials  from  Nashville  to  the  plant,  extra  freight  charges  were 
assessed  by  the  Government  in  the  operation  of  its  railroads,  which,  under  the 
narrow  interpretation  insisted  upon  by  its  auditors  in  applying  the  terms  of 
the  contract  to  the  35,000,000  pounds  of  powder  made  at  Old  Hickory,  brought 
about  this  difference  of  nearly  $56,000.  The  remaining  items  of  disallowance 
in  the  final  settlement  are  all  of  only  minor  importance. 

CAMBRIA  STEEL  CO. 

In  connection  with  some  $15,000  of  billings  from  this  firm,  Mr.  Storck 
discovers  two  payments  for  supposed  individual  shipments  made  only  seven 
days  apart  in  the  same  car,  and  com-ectly  concludes  that  this  could  not  have 
happened.  From  this  he  deduces  "  some  evidence  of  criminal  and  civil  lia- 
bility ",  and  concludes  that  "  if  an  investigation  of  a  thorough  nature  were 
made  millions  of  dollars  might  be  recovered  for  the  Government." 

The  explanation  here  is  simply  that  through  some  error  a  duplicate  of  the 
original  invoice  for  a  carload  of  steel  rails  (shipped  in  car  B.  &  O.  150134) 
was  vouchered  and  paid  by  the  du  Pont  Engineering  Company  and  charged  to 
the  Government  after  the  original  invoice  had  already  been  paid  and  charged. 
Some  weeks  thereafter,  this  error  was  discovered ;  a  credit  memorandum  was 
promptly  issued  to  the  Government ;  and  in  due  course  a  check  was  received 
from  the  Cambria  Steel  Company,  refunding  the  duplicate  payment  of  $3,.399. 
All  these  events,  including  complete  correction  of  the  error  as  well  as  its  occur- 
rence, liad  taken  place  in  close  succession  some  four  and  a  half  years  before 
the  date  of  Mr.  Storck's  report.  Thus,  like  his  various  other  accusations,  this 
one  proves  not  only  barren  of  any  real  evil,  but  not  even  attended  with  any 
such  appearance  of  evil  as  would  have  survived  any  but  the  most  superficial 
investigation. 

NASHVIIXE.    WILiflNGTON.    PHIL ADET.PHIA 

Insofar  as  Mr.  Storck's  statements  inider  these  three  heads  might  be  con- 
strued as  involving  any  reflection  upon  the  du  Pont  Company,  they  have  already 
been  answered  above,  under  the  heading  "  Paragraphs  1  to  3 — Criticism  of 
Storage  of  Records."  With  respect  to  the  records  at  Wilmington,  the  facts  were 
in  accord  with  Mr.  Storck's  supposition ;  and  the  documents  were  made  fully 
available  to,  and  were  extensively  reviewed  by  the  Government's  investigators. 


MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY  3537 

THE  INVESTIGATION 

In  large  part,  the  matter  under  this  head  consists  simply  of  Mr.  Storck's 
suggestions  for  the  very  extensive  reinvestigation  which  he  was  endeavoring 
to  bring  about.  To  the  general  implications  of  irregularities  here  included, 
what  we  have  said  above  under  the  head  of  "  Statement "  will  be  found  appli- 
cable. The  specific  matters  in  this  section  of  the  memorandum  which  appear 
to  justify  further  comment  or  reference  are  as  follows : 

1.  Purchases  from  du  Pont  subsidlmies. — This  subject  is  comprehensively 
dealt  with  in  exliibit  no,  1173. 

2.  Freight  paumciits. — See  above,  under  the  title  "Overcharges  in  Freight." 

3.  Bank  deposits. — The  working  funds  held  to  the  credit  of  the  Government  In 
connection  with  tlie  work  at  Old  Hickory  were  kept  distributed  among  a 
number  of  banks,  in  accord  with  the  usual  practice  of  the  du  Pont  Company. 
These  depositories  were  mainly  the  large  banks  of  New  York  City,  although 
for  obvious  reasons  accounts  were  also  carried  in  substantial  amounts  in  two 
bants  at  Nashville  and  to  some  extent  in  one  bank  at  Wilmington.  Full  ad- 
vantage was  taken  of  the  opportunity  to  earn  interest  on  the  funds  in  bank ; 
and  all  the  interest  earned,  amounting  to  a  total  of  more  than  $400,000,  was 
credited  or  paid  over  to  the  Government. 

4.  Cash  discounts. — It  was  the  reguliir  and  uniform  practice  of  the  du  Pont 
Engineering  Company  to  take  advantage  of  all  cash  discounts,  in  accord  with 
the  long-established  practice  of  the  parent  company ;  and  the  Goverimient  re- 
ceived full  credit  for  the  amounts  thus  saved.  The  statements  made  in  this 
connection  above,  and  in  exhibit  no.  1199,  and  elsewhere  in  the  committee's 
record,  are  believed  to  preclude  the  necessity  of  any  more  detailed  statement 
here. 

5.  Shortage  and  damage  claims. — JMr.  Storck's  charge  that  "  no  attention 
was  paid  to  claims  for  shortages  "  in  or  damage  to  the  materials  received  at 
Old  Hickory,  is  entirely  without  any  adequate  justification.  In  general,  the 
statements  made  in  this  I'egard  at  various  points  above,  and  in  exhibit  no.  1199, 
are  believed  to  be  sufficient.  The  only  qualification  which  it  occurs  to  us  to 
add  is  that  the  du  Pont  Company's  experience  in  the  course  of  the  war,  both 
at  its  own  plants  and  at  Old  Hickory,  showed  that  in  case  of  very  minor 
reported  shortages  the  costs  of  collection  would  exceed  the  amounts  recov- 
ered, and  practical  working  rules  were  therefore  adopted  from  time  to  time 
under  which  opportunities  for  filing  claims  below  certain  minimum  economic 
limits  were  rejected. 

6.  Bonus  awards. — This  subject,  we  believe,  has  been  sufficiently  explained 
above,  under  the  head  of  "  Unrelated  Items  Listed  under  *  *  *  Mason  & 
Hanger  Company  ",  item  7,  "  Meritorious  bonus  *  *  *."  Mr.  Storck's  asser- 
tion here  that  "  with  reference  to  bonuses  one  voucher  alone  amounted  to 
$250,000  ",  is  manifestly  inconsistent  with  his  item  of  "  Meritorious  bonus  "  in 
the  tabulation  in  the  middle  of  his  report  at  which  point  he  correctly  gives  the 
figure  of  $151,355  as  representing  the  total  of  all  bonus  awards  made  in  con- 
nection with  the  construction  of  the  Old  Hickory  plant.  His  present  figure 
of  $250,000  is  entii'ely  out  of  line  not  only  with  any  individual  bonus  award 
but  with  the  total  of  all  such  awards  which  were  charged  to  the  Government. 
The  maximum  award  made  to  any  individual  for  outstanding  performance  in 
the  work  of  construction  at  Old  Hickory  was  $15,000;  and  the  total  bonus  cost 
of  $151,355  for  Old  Hickory  construction  was  made  up  of  awards  to  about  130 
individuals.  Bonuses  earned  in  connection  with  the  operation  of  the  Old  Hick- 
ory plant,  as  stated  above,  were  paid  by  the  company  and  did  not  figure  in  its 
accounting  with  the  Government ;  so  that  the  above  total  of  $151,355  represents 
the  entire  amount  of  Old  Hickory  bonus  awards  with  which  the  Government 
was  concerned. 

7.  Prior  and  stihsequent  du  Pont  service  of  Old  Hickory  employees^. — 
Mr.  Storck  appears  to  find  something  sinister  in  the  fact  "  that  in  many  in- 
stances it  was  found  that  employees  at  the  (Old  Hickory)  powder  plant  were 
subsequently  employed  by  the  du  Ponts  and  that  a  number  of  those  employed 
at  the  plant  were  previously  in  the  employ  of  the  du  Ponts."  Certainly  noth- 
ing could  have  been  more  natural  and  proper  than  that  the  du  Pont  Engineer- 
ing Company's  organization  should  have  been  built  up  largely  of  men  who  had 
already  proved  their  worth  in  the  service  of  the  du  Pont  Company  and  who 
had  the  unparalleled  experience  which  that  service  afforded  in  the  construe- 


3538  MUNITIONS    INDUSTRY 

tion  of  powder  plants  and  the  production  of  powder.  That,  in  fact,  was  of  the 
very  essence  of  the  arrangement  with  the  Government.  On  the  other  hand, 
when  the  Old  Hickory  organization  came  to  he  demobilized,  it  was  equally 
natural  and  proper  that  every  effort  should  be  made  to  find  suitable  employ- 
ment in  the  peace-time  activities  of  the  du  Pont  Company  for  men  who  had 
done  successful  work  at  Old  Hickory  and  whose  services  were  no  longer  re- 
quired by  the  Government.  Mr.  Storck's  remark  which  we  have  quoted  above 
is  clearly  significant  as  an  indication  of  the  spirit  of  his  investigation  rather 
than  as  an  evidence  of  anything  improper  in  the  conduct  of  the  Old  Hickory 
undertaking. 

S.  Charge  of  "  Unloading." — This  subject,  we  believe,  has  been  sufficiently 
considered  above  under  the  head  of  "  Some  General  Explanation." 

9.  Ouerating  costs  charged  to  construction. — Mr.  Storck  states  "  that  a  num- 
ber of  items  properly  chargeable  to  operation  were  incorrectly  charged  to  con- 
struction." This  is  true,  so  far  as  we  know  and  believe,  with  respect  to  only 
items  of  expense,  each  of  which  was  applicable  in  part  to  construction  and  in 
part  to  operation,  and  of  which  the  original  apportionment  by  the  company's 
accountants,  though  entirely  innocent  of  any  such  purpose  as  Mr,  Storck 
ascribes  to  it,  was  incorrect. 

These  two  items  were  the  cost  of  operating  "  labor  trains  "  necessary  for 
transporting  to  and  from  the  plant  large  numbers  of  workers  who  could  not 
at  the  time  be  sheltered  in  the  plant  village,  and  the  expense  of  the  "  powder 
plant  railway "  which  was  built  and  used  for  transporting  materials  and 
workers  within  the  plant  area.  Both  these  services  were,  of  course,  utilized 
in  furtherance  of  both  the  construction  and  the  operation  work  at  Old  Hickory. 
At  the  outset,  when  construction  was  the  only  activity,  the  necessary  charges 
were  applied  against  construction.  Later,  when  the  work  of  production  was 
begun  and  rapidly  expanded,  these  charges  in  part  were  allocated  to  that 
activity ;  but  the  proration  failed  to  be  consistently  and  correctly  carried  out 
in  all  months,  making  a  later  corrective  adjustment  necessary.  This  irregu- 
larity was  discovered  and  pointed  out  by  the  Government's  auditors,  and  the 
proper  correction  was  made  in  accord  with  their  findings  and  included  in  the 
final  settlement.  No  other  items  of  operating  costs  erroneously  charged  to 
construction  were  included  in  that  settlement,  or  jn  dispute  at  that  time. 


From  the  above  explanations,  it  will  be  apparent  that  Mr.  Storck's  accu- 
sations, when  the  facts  are  sifted  out,  are  quite  generally  groundless  and  in 
large  part  ridiculous.  Mr.  Storck  himself  gave  warning  of  the  superficial 
character  of  his  work  by  describing  it  as  "  a  preUnmwry  investigation.'"  The 
facts  to  refute  his  suspicions  were  largely  available  in  the  files  of  the  Depart- 
ment of  Justice,  from  which  this  document  was  taken,  and  fully  determinable 
upon   inquiry. 

In  reviewing  the  stenographic  transcript  of  the  December  hearings  we  have 
been  unable  to  find  an.v  express  assent  to  our  request  that  this  answer  be  also 
published  as  a  part  of  the  record.  We  are  very  sure,  however,  that  it  was 
the  intent  of  the  committee  at  that  time  that  our  request  should  be  granted. 
And  even  if  that  request  was  not  made,  the  unfairness  that  would  result  from 
reviving  and  publisli,ing  these  old  charges  without  our  ever  having  had  the 
opportunity  to  reply  to  them,  or  without  coupling  the  reply  with  the  charges, 
is  so  manifest  that  we  are  sure  your  committee  must  be  as  unwilling  as  we  are 
to  have  that  injustice  imposed  upon  us. 

There  is  one  practical  point,  however,  which  causes  us  some  concern,  espe- 
cially in  view  of  the  time  which  has  unavoidably  necessary  for  preparing  this 
communication  and  the  progress  already  made  in  the  printing  of  your  record. 
The  mere  inclusion  of  the  present  statement  in  the  voluminous  record  of  the 
committee  without  some  plain  and  conspicuous  reference  or  references  to  it 
in  connection  with  exhibit  no.  1190  would,  of  course,  be  almost  useless.  We, 
therefore,  respectfully  request  that  this  statement  be  coupled  up  with  Mr. 
Storck's  report  in  the  committee's  record  as  finally  printed,  in  some  way  that 
will  insure  its  not  being  overlooked  by  anyone  considering  the  Storck  report. 

E.  I.  DU  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co., 
By  W.   S.  Gregg. 


^ 


BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


3  9999  06314  092  3 


