NASA CR-1 14678 

tv ~VUE Public 


APPLICABILITY OF NASA (ARC) 
TWO-SEGMENT APPROACH PROCEDURES TO 
BOEING AIRCRAFT 


By Robert L. Allison 


Reproduced by 

NATIONAL TECHNICAL 
INFORMATION SERVICE 

U S Department of Commerce 
Springfield, VA. 22151 


January 1974 


I 14678 ) APPLICABILITY IxflT&Sh 

BOEING T AIECBaFT K !R AP - HOACH 5E0C£Ct) BES 10 
AIRCHAFI (Boeing Conaexcial 

Airplane Co., Seattle) 


r 


CSC! 01c G3/02 


N 74* 17749 s ] 


Unclas 
31545 J 


Prepared under contract NAS2-7561 by 
BOEING COMMERCIAL AIRPLANE COMPANY 
Seattle, Washington 98124 

for 

Ames Research Center 

NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION 


2. Government Accession No, 


3, Recipient's Catalog No. 


4, Title and Subtitle 

APPLICABILITY OF NASA (ARC) TWO-SEGMENT APPROACH 
PROCEDURES TO BOEING AIRCRAFT 


7. Author(s) 

Robert L. Allison (see foreword) 


9, Performing Organization Name and Address 

Boeing Commercial Airplane Company 

P.O. Box 3707 

Seattle, Washington 98124 


12. Sponsoring Agency Name and Address 

National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
Washington, D.C. 20546 


15. Supplementary Notes 

NASA Technical Monitor: Mr. Kenneth C. White 

Ames Research Center 


5. Report Date 

January 1974 


6. Performing Organization Code 


8. Performing Organization Report No. 

D6-41336 


10. Work Unit No. 


1 1. Contract or Grant No. 

NAS2-7561 


13. T ype of Report and Period Covered 

Contractor report 


14. Sponsoring Agency Code 


16. Abstract 


Tliis report presents the results of an engineering study to determine the feasibility of applying 
the NASA (ARC) two-segment approach procedures and avionics to the Boeing fleet of commercial 
jet transports. The specific procedures and avionics considered were those developed by United 
Airlines and Collins Radio for use in the UAL 727-200 line operational evaluation phase 
(May-October 1973) of the NASA two-segment approach program. This feasibility study does not 
include simulation or flight test and is concerned with the speed/path control and systems 
compatibility aspects of the procedures rather than the noise benefits. 

Path performance data are provided for representative Boeing 707/727/737/747 passenger 
models. Thrust margin (AT) requirements for speed/path control are analyzed for still air and 
shearing tailwind conditions. The Collins avionics configuration and two alternate avionics 
configurations are reviewed for compatibility with existing systems. Certification of the 
two-segment equipment and possible effects on existing airplane certification are discussed. 
Operational restrictions on use of the procedures with current autothrottles and in icing or reported 
tailwind conditions are recommended. Using the NASA/UAL 727 procedures as a baseline, 
maximum upper glide slopes for representative 707/727/737/747 models are defined as a starting 
point for further study and/or flight evaluation programs. 


17. Key Words (Suggested by Author(s) ) 

Noise abatement approach 
Two-segment glide slope 
Path guidance 
Speed/path control 
ailwind shear 


19. Security Classif. (of this report) 

Unclassified 


18. Distribution Statement 


Unclassified —Unlimited 


20. Security Classif. (of this page) 

Unclassified 


'For sale by the National Technical Information Service, Springfield. Virginia 22151 


/ 












FOREWORD 


This study was conducted under NASA contract NAS2-7561, administered by the Ames 
Research Center. Mr. Clark White was the NASA technical monitor. 


The work was accomplished within the Technology Department of the Boeing Commercial 
Airplane Company, Seattle, Washington. Participating engineers were as follows: 

R. L. Allison Principal investigator 


G. A. Chenkovich 
A. C. Marley 

R. E. Buchholz 

D. B. Swanson 


Flight controls (autopilot/flight director) 

Aerodynamics 

Propulsion 


This report has been reviewed and approved by: 


l.C.Ub 

F. C. Hall 
Program Manager 

Vry^ — *- — 

W. A. Reinhart 

Chief Engineer, Technology 

707/727/737 Division 



Chief Engineer, Technology 
747 Division 


u 



CONTENTS 


Page 

1.0 SUMMARY 1 

2.0 INTRODUCTION 3 

2.1 Background 3 

2.2 Operational Criteria 3 

2.3 Units of Measurement 5 

3.0 TASK I-PATH PERFORMANCE ANALYSES 5 

3.1 Thrust Data 7 

3.2 Trimmed Path Performance 13 

3.2.1 Data . 13 

3.2.2 Computation 13 

3.2.3 Limits 22 

3.3 Thrust Margins 22 

3.3.1 Path Corrections 24 

3.3.2 Tailwind (Also See Sec. 4.6) 26 

3.4 Procedures Review 27 

3.4.1 Gear 29 

3.4.2 Reduced Landing Flaps (Maximum Flaps for 747) 29 

3.4.3 Speeds 29 

3.4.4 Transition Altitude 29 

3.4.5 Upper Glide Slope Angles 30 

4.0 TASK II-AIRPLANE SYSTEMS REVIEW 30 

4.1 Purpose 30 

4.2 NASA System Description 32 

4.3 Avionics Mechanization Concepts 32 

4.3.1 Configuration A (Collins Unit) 34 

4.3.2 Alternate Configurations (B and C) 37 

4.4 Associated Equipment . . 37 

4.5 Modification Requirements 41 

4.6 Certification Program 41 

4.6.1 Existing Systems 42 

4.6.2 Two-Segment System 43 

5.0 TASK III— PROGRAM REVIEW 45 

6.0 CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS 46 


f 

t 


REFERENCES 


47 



APPLICABILITY OF NASA (ARC) 


TWO-SEGMENT APPROACH PROCEDURES TO 
BOEING AIRCRAFT 


By Robert L. Allison 


1.0 SUMMARY 


The purpose of this feasibility study is to complement the NASA-Ames Research Center 
evaluation of two-segment approaches by making a preliminary determination of their applicability 
to the Boeing 707/727/737/747 fleet. This study did not include simulation, flight testing, or noise 
comparisons and considered only nominal airframe/engine characteristics for sea-level standard-day 
conditions, all engines operating. The results represent engineering judgments, based on static 
analyses, experience, and available data, and are intended for use by NASA in conducting studies 
and test programs. This report should not be interpreted as a final Boeing recommendation 
concerning procedures and systems to be introduced into airline service. 

The NASA/UAL procedures used for the 727 line evaluation of two-segment glide slopes 
appear feasible for application to the Boeing fleet. However, the maximum upper glide slope angles 
recommended for representative passenger models are as follows: 

• 707-5.5° • 737-5° 

• 727-6° i 747-5.5° 

Due to the reduced nominal power settings, the upper glide slopes listed above are not compatible 
with current autothrottles and are not recommended for use in icing conditions or when tailwinds 
are reported. These glide slopes and operational limitations are based on using the 707/727/737 
reduced (certified) landing flap positions and the 747 maximum flap position, which is comparable 
to the reduced flap positions for the other models. The angles shown provide the same thrust 
margin from idle (AT = -1.2° for the minim um-weight case) for ail models. The adequacy of this 
margin should be determined from NASA/UAL flight test results. Analyses of the thrust margin 
required for path control (still air) and for speed control in shearing tailwinds are presented herein. 
The latter shows that thrust margin requirements for a specified tailwind profile are proportional to 
the glide slope angle, being greater for a steep approach than for a normal ILS. 



Restricting usage of two-segment approaches to nonicing, nontailwind conditions is not viewed 
as a disadvantage of two-segment glide slopes when compared to other noise-abatement approach 
techniques. In fact, one advantage of the NASA two-segment system, when compared to steeper 
ILS beams, is that current ILS glide slope angles and procedures remain available as a backup for use 
in adverse weather conditions. 

The NASA concept for providing two-segment path guidance using the existing ILS and an 
airborne computer (with DME and altitude inputs) appears feasible for application to any jet 
transport. The avionics developed by Collins for the NASA/UAL 727 evaluation are generally 
compatible with the Boeing fleet and are expected to provide satisfactory flight director and 
single-channel autopilot performance to category II minimums. However, the Collins configuration 
uses the “altitude hold” mode of the existing autopilot/flight director; hence, it is not suitable for 
approaches to lower weather minimums with autoland (multichannel) systems. Several other areas 
of concern regarding fleet retrofit, monitoring, and autopilot/ flight director certification were also 
noted in this study. Alternate configurations using already certified approach modes should be 
considered when defining hardware for large-scale fleet retrofit. Regardless of the configuration 
implemented, modifications to existing equipment are required but can be minimized by 
two-segment system input/output circuitry design. 

Certification can be accomplished by either the operational method where individual airlines 
obtain supplemental type certificates applicable to their particular aircraft, or by the engineering 
method where the airframe manufacturer obtains type-certificate revisions applicable to all airlines. 
Either method will require flight testing, performance evaluation, and failure analyses, with the 
extent of the required program dependent on the avionics configuration selected. 

The overall NASA/UAL/Collins effort is quite comprehensive and should provide valuable data 
concerning the operational suitability of two-segment approaches. When procedures and hardware 
are defined for fleetwide implementation, noise trades for the alternate flap settings should be 
conducted (i.e., increased flaps allow steeper upper segments but increase noise on the ILS), and 
further consideration should be given to nonstandard days, variations from nominal airframe/engine 
characteristics, alternate avionics configurations, monitoring, and to the compatibility (reliability, 
failure modes, flight checks) of DME facilities. 


2 



2.0 INTRODUCTION 


2.1 BACKGROUND 

The NASA-Ames Research Center has implemented a program to further develop and evaluate 
the operational feasibility of the two-segment landing approach as a means of reducing community 
noise near airports. The program includes the development and evaluation of avionics that will aid 
the pilot in making two-segment approaches. Flight evaluations have been completed for the Boeing 
727 and are in progress for the DC-8. The 727 system requires a DME ground station collocated 
with the ILS glide slope transmitter, while the DC-8 system requires R-NAV capability. 

The NASA program involves the participation of an engineering contractor (Collins Radio) to 
design and fabricate the avionics and an airline contractor (United Air Lines) to develop the 
procedures in a simulation study, to install the equipment in the evaluation aircraft, to conduct an 
engineering flight evaluation, and, finally, to conduct a line operational evaluation of the equipment 
and procedures. The 727 line evaluation was conducted during regularly scheduled passenger service 
using a UAL 727-200 flown by line pilots on the California-Oregon route. 

This study complements the above program by making a preliminary determination of the 
applicability of the two-segment approach to the entire fleet of Boeing commercial jet transports. 
The aircraft of interest are the 707, 727, 737, and 747. This is a feasibility study and does not 
include simulation or flight test. The required tasks are: 

• Task I— path performance analyses 

« Task IJ— airplane systems review 

• Task III— program review 


2.2 OPERATIONAL CRITERIA 

A general statement, sometimes made in discussions of noise-abatement approaches, is that it 
should be possible to use the same procedure* for all approaches, VFR or IFR. Provision of IFR 
capability is very desirable with respect to crew training and proficiency and need not adversely 


'““Procedure” implies a total definition of all operational variables such as flap position, glide slope angle, etc. 


3 



affect the noise benefits. However, analyses of noise-abatement approach procedures show there are 
operational limitations associated with the noise reduction. These limitations result when the 
procedure reduces the approach thrust below the level required to provide a particular operational 
capability. In general, approach procedures that require less thrust than current ILS procedures will 
be quieter but will also be restricted to less severe tailwind/icing conditions. Auto throttle 
compatibility may also be affected. 

Thus, if a single new procedure were developed to replace current ILS procedures, the 
potential noise benelits of the new procedure and the operational flexibility available with current 
ILS procedures would be compromised. Since gear/ flap/speed schedules for the two-segment 
approach are very similar to normal ILS procedures, it appears preferable to specify upper-segment 
glide slope angles that will maximize noise benefits for the majority of approach conditions and to 
retain current ILS glide slopes for use in unusual weather conditions. 


Consistent with the above rationale, the following operational criteria were defined for use in 
this study: 

• Upper Glide Slope Angle: For purposes of this study, it is not necessary to use the same 
upper glide slope angle for all models. The glide slopes for each model should be the 
steepest considered feasible, with adequate margins provided for speed/path control. 
However, glide slopes steeper than 6° are not to be specified until feasibility is 
demonstrated by simulator or flight tests (beyond the scope of this study). 

• Wind and Weather: Requirements for instrument approaches to category II minimums 
should be satisfied, except that the upper segment need not be compatible with icing or 
reported tailwind conditions. This assumes that normal ILS procedures will be retained 
for use in these weather conditions. While the upper-segment glide slope need not provide 
a margin for speed/path control in reported (sustained) tailwinds, sufficient margin 
should be provided to cope with random tail gusts likely to be encountered in turbulence. 

• Autopilot Compatibility: The capability to fly coupled two-segment approaches to 
category II minimums is required. Compatibility with a category III autopilot (or a 
category II autopilot with autoland) is desirable. 

• Autothrottle Compatibility: The ability to use autothrottles is desirable, particularly for 
the 747. However, the upper glide slope should not be reduced solely for the purpose of 
providing autothrottle compatibility. 


4 



2.3 UNITS OF MEASUREMENT 


Calculations were made in the U.S. customary system of units and converted to SI units using 
conversion factors from reference 1. Both the U.S. customary and the SI units are shown on the 
data plots. 

The maximum and minimum weight conditions are identified on the data plots by showing the 
airplane weight in pounds. The corresponding gravitational forces in newtons are listed in table I for 
reference: 


TABLE !. —AIRPLANE WEIGHTS 


— 

Model 

Flap 

position 

Landing weights 

Maximum 

Minimum 

1 000 lb 

1000 N 

1000 lb 

1000 N 

707-300B (Adv)/C 

40 

247 

1098 

160 

712 

(JT3D-3B1 

50 





727-200 

30 

154.5 

687 

110 

489 

(JT8D-9) 

40 

142,5 

634 



737-200 

30 

103 

458 

66 

294 

(JT8D-9) 

40 





747-200B 

25 

564 

2509 

380 

1690 

(JT9D-7) 

30 






3.0 TASK I— PATH PERFORMANCE ANALYSES 


This task involves presentation of thrust data, steady-state flightpath angle (7) capabilities, 
approach speeds, and flap placards for representative passenger models of Boeing 707/727/737/747 
aircraft and review of the 727 two-segment approach procedures defined by NASA/UAL for 
feasibility of application to the Boeing fleet. 

Steady-state flightpath angle ( 7 ) data are summarized on figure 1 for two power settings, at 
speeds (1.3 V g + 15) corresponding to the upper-segment glide slope speed selected by NASA/UAL 
for the 727 procedure. Since current autothrottle aft limits are set above engine idle, the path angle 
at the autothrottle aft limit would be shallower than for engine idle (sec. 3.2.3). Upper-segment 
glide slope capabilities (earth referenced) are less than the 7 capabilities (referenced to the air mass) 
shown on figure 1, due to the margins necessary for speed/path control (sec. 3.3). 


5 




notes: 


GEAR DOWN 
SEA LEVEL , STD - DAV 
V» ». , 5y s t»5 



FIGURE 1.— TRIMMED FLIGHTPATH ANGLE (y) FOR BOEING TRANSPORTS 


6 













The NASA/UAL two-segment approach procedures for the 727 are defined on figure 2. The 6° 
upper glide slope is flown with gear down using the minimum certified flap position (30), at a speed 
(V re f + 1 5) slightly higher than the normal final approach speed. Transition to the ILS glide slope is 
begun at about 1000 ft of altitude and is completed above 500 ft. Speed is allowed to bleed down 
to the normal final approach speed, and thrust is advanced to the normal approach thrust during the 
transition. Thereafter, the approach is the same as for a normal ILS. 

These procedures appear feasible for application to the Boeing fleet with the maximum upper 
glide slopes and operational limitations shown in figure 2. The glide slopes and operational 
limitations are based on the use of the reduced (certified) landing flap position for the 
707/727/737. The maximum flap *position was used for the 747 because the 747 landing 
configurations are relatively cleaner than for the other models; e,g., the 727 minimum certified 
landing flap position is the same as the 747 maximum flap position. 

The upper glide slopes shown on figure 2 provide the same thrust margin from idle for all 
models. Shallower glide slopes would be required if based on the autothrottle aft limit or the 
minimum power setting for inlet anti-ice. At present, “flight idle” is used for 747 approaches; but it 
is feasible to use “minimum idle” if required for noise abatement. The other models (707/727/737) 
have no “flight idle” limit. 

The adequacy of the thrust margin (equivalent to a AT =-l .2° path modulation capability for 
the minimum-weight case) should be determined from NASA/UAL 727 flight test results. Analyses 
indicate that it should be sufficient for speed/path control under normal approach conditions, but 
that additional margin would be necessary for the tailwind profile considered. 


3.1 THRUST DATA 

Figures 3 through 6 present the throttle/EPR/thrust relationships for nominal JT3D-3B (707), 
JT8D-9 (727/737), and JT9D-7 (747) engines. These data are based on estimates for “nominal” 
engines and are valid, for purposes of this feasibility study, for the conditions shown on the plots. 
However, substantial variations from the nominal should be expected. Engine characteristics at low 
power settings (near idle) are not well defined because of considerable engine-to-engine variations 
and other factors. The relationship between EPR and power lever angle is particularly uncertain due 
to rigging tolerances and differences in the surge bleed valve operating points. Very little flight test 
data are available regarding the thrust/EPR/Nj relationships at power settings below that required 
for a normal ILS approach. 


7 



00 


NOTE: 

E> REDUCED (CERTIFIED) FLAP POSITIONS: FOR 707/727/737 MAX FOR 747 
0D> PROVIDES A 7 =-1.2° MARGIN FROM MIN. IDLE (AT MIN WEIGHT) 

3 UPPER GLIDE SLOPES NOT COMPATIBLE WITH: 

• ICING CONDITIONS 

• REPORTED TAILWINDS 

• CURRENT AUTOTHROTTLES 


NASA/UAL 


MAXIMUM UPPER GLIDE SLOPES 
MODEL 

707-300B ADV/C 
-► 727-200 
737-200 
747-200 



FIGURE 2.—APPUCA TiON OF NASA/UAL TWO-SEGMENT APPROACHES TO BOEING AIRCRAFT 



engine PRESSURE RATIO (EPRI 


2.2 K 


2.0 


EPR VS. TLA 

• NOMINAL ENGINE 

• NO CABLE LOAD 

• NO ENGINE AIRBLEED 

• SEA LEVEL STATIC 

• NOT TO BE USED FOR POWER SETTING 


IN -FLIGHT THRUST SETTINGS 
(SEA LEVEL, STD DAY, NO ANTI - ICING BLEED) 


T T2 = 5r F (288°K) 


1.8 


U 


1.4 


L2 


1.0 L- 



2.2 


2.0 h 


- 1.8 h 


1.6 


£Z 


NOMINAL IDLE 


J- 


HANDLE STOP 

— i t 


10 20 30 40 50 

FORWARD THRUST LEVER ANGLE (DEGREES) 


70 


1.2 


® 

CD 

© 


TAKE-OFF, T/C BLEED OFF 
TAKE-OFF. T/C BLEED ON 
MAX CONT, T/C BLEED OFF 
MAX CONT, T/C BLEED ON 

ESTIMATED IDLE THRUST 
M; 0, 890 LB 1 3959 N) 

M = 0.1, 820 LB (364BN) 

M- 0.2, 680 LB (3025NI 
Mi 0.3, 500 LB (2224N) 


FN/SAM VS. EPR 



1000 NEWTONS 
30 40 


VALID WITH OR Wl THOUT AIRBLEED 
DATA BELOW EPR OF 1.2 ARE 
EXTRAPOLATED AND SHOULD BE USED 
FOR STUDY ONLY, NOT FOR POWER 
SETTING 

DATA PRESENTED DO NOT ACCOUNT 
FOR ENGINE VARIATIONS 
IDLE EPR AND THRUST WILL VARY WITH 
ENGINE TRIM, ENGINE DETERIORATION 
AND AMBIENT CONDITION, AND ARE 
NOT IDENTIFIED ON THIS CHART 
60 70 



FIGURE 3.— NOMINAL ENGINE CHARACTERISTIC FOR LANDING APPROACH STUDY -707 -320B/C 
AIRPLANE, JT3D-3B ENGINE 


INSTALLED NET THRUST FN (1000 LB) 



ENGINE PRESSURE RATIO (EPR) 


O 


EPR VS. TLA 



2.2 h 


IN • flight thrust settings 
(SEA LEVEL, STD DAY, NO ANTI - I CING BLEED) 
© TAKE-OFF, A/C BLEED OFF 
(2) TAKE-OFF, A/C BLEED ON 
® MAX CONT, A/C BLEED OFF 
(i) MAX CONT. A/C BLEED ON 
ESTIMATED IDLE THRUST: 

M=0, »40 LB 

0.1, 580 LB 
M = 0.2, 350 LB 
M * 0.3, 120 LB 


M = .3 .2 .1 


V5. EPR 

« VALID WITH OR WITHOUT AIRBLEEO 

• DATA BELOW EPR OF 1.2 ARE 
EXTRAPOLATED AND SHOULD BE USED 
FOR STUOY ONLY, NOT FOR POWER 
SETTING 

• DATA PRESENTED DO NOT ACCOUNT 
FOR ENGINE VARIATIONS 

• IDLE EPR AND THRUST WILL VARY WITH 
ENGINE TRIM. ENGINE DETERIORATION 
AND ANBIENT CONDITION, AND ARE 
NOT IDENTIFIED ON THIS CHART 



FIGURE 4.— NOMINAL ENGINE CHARACTERISTIC FOR LANDING APPROACH STUDY -727-200 AIRPLANE, 
JT8D-9 ENGINE 


INSTALLED NET THRUST FN <1000 LB) 



ENGINE PRESSURE RATIO (EPR) 


EPR VS.. TLA 


IN - FLIGHT THRUST SETTINGS 



2.4 h 


2.2 k 


2.0 r 


i-e h 


(SEA LEVEL. STD DAY, NO ANTI - ICING BLEED I 

(1) TAKE-OFF, A/C BLEED OFF 

(2) TAKE-OFF . A/C BLEED ON 

(D MAX CONT, A/C BLEED OFF 
© MAX CONT, A/ C BLEED ON 
ESTIMATED IDLE THRUST: 

M = 0, 840 LB (3737N) 

M = 0.1, 580 LB (2580N) 

M - 0.2, 350 LBO657N) 

M - OJ, 120 LB (634N) 


M-.3 .2 ,1 



VS. EPR 

• VALID WITH OR WITHOUT AIRBLEED 

• DATA BELOW EPR OF 1.2 ARE 
EXTRAPOLATED AND SHOULD BE USED 
FOR STUDY ONLY, NOT FOR POWER 
SETTING 

• DATA PRESENTED DO NOT ACCOUNT 
FOR ENGINE VARIATIONS 

• IDLE EPR AND THRUST WILL VARY WITH 
ENGINE TRIM, ENGINE DETERIORATION 
AND AMBIENT CONDITION, AND ARE 
NOT IDENTIFIED ON THIS CHART 


lOOO NEWTONS 
30 40 


50H 



Ho 


H2 


FIGURE 5.— NOMINAL ENGINE CHARACTERISTIC FOR LANDING APPROACH STUDY-737-200 AIRPLANE , 
JT8D-9 ENGINE 


INSTALLED NET THRLfi T FN (1000 LB 



ENGINE PRESSURE RATIO (EPRI 


(O 


EPR VS. TLA 

NOMINAL ENGINE 
NO CABLE LOAD 
NO ENGINE AIRBLEED 
SEA LEVEL, M r.2 

MIN. IDLE 

FLIGHT IDLE 

NOT TO BE USED FOR 
POWER SETTING 



T TZ - IS.* F (266° K) 


59 (288°K> 


100 (31 TK) 


typical surge bleed switching 

(VARIATION BETWEEN ENGINES IS SIGNIFICANT) 


IDLE 


FUEL CONTROL 
STOP 

I HANDLE STOP 

_i * —lit 


10 20 30 40 50 M 

FORWARD THRUST LEVER ANGLE (DEGREES) 


70 


FN/& At) VS. EPR 

« VALID WITH OR WITHOUT AIRBLEED 
• VALID FOR STD. AND NON-STD 
TEMP. DAY 



FIGURE 6.— NOMINAL ENGINE CHARACTERISTIC FOR LANDING APPROACH STUDY-747-200 AIRPLANE, 
JT9D-7 ENGINE 


INSTALLED NET THRUST FNUOOO LB) 




3.2 TRIMMED PATH PERFORMANCE 


3.2.1 Data 

Figures 7 through 1 4 show computed values of the trimmed flightpath angle (zero-wind glide 
slope) 7 for the Boeing 707-300B Advanced/C, 727-200, 737-200 basic, and 747-200. The 
relationship between 7 and EPR (nominal engine) is shown for each model with the gear down and 
the flaps in two landing positions. Each flap setting is shown at two weights. The larger weight is the 
current maximum certificated landing weight for the particular flap setting. The smaller weight is 
based on approximately the sum of the operating empty weight plus minimum fuel reserves with no 
allowance for payload. 


3.2.2 Computation 

For conventional airplanes in straight flight, the steady-state flightpath angle (7) relative to the 
air mass is determined by the thrust-to-weight ratio (T/W), drag-to-lift ratio, (D/L), and inertial 
deceleration (dV/dt) in accordance with the following equation: 

7 =T/W-D/L-~ (1) 

(rad) § at 

The 7 /EPR relationships were obtained by first computing the thrust (F n ) required for trim and 
then determining the corresponding EPR from the generalized thrust curves presented in section 
3.1. The thrust required for trim was computed for a constant equivalent airspeed descent using the 
following equation: 

F n = W[D/L+7(1 + 0.567 M 2 )] 


where: 

7 is negative for a descent 

0.567 M 2 results from the dV/dt term of equation (1 ) 
The D/L data were obtained from certificated drag polars. 


13 



EPt*> 


\.\ 


1.0 



FIGURE 7.-C0MPUTED APPROACH PATH, LANDING FLAPS 40-707 300B ADVANCED /C 
14 














A\PfrFEED - VSTSOT^ 


• ?>EA LEVEL 

• DAY 



FIGURE 9.-C0MPUTED APPROACH PATH, LANDING F LAPS 30-727-200 
















HPR 



FIGURE 10.-COMPUTED APPROACH PATH, LANDING FLAPS 40-727-200 


17 



































9 


















• *CAVXV€A- 



FfGURE 14.— COMPUTED APPROACH PATH, LANDING FLAPS 30-747-200 B 


21 




















3.2.3 Limits 


For a given weight (W) and drag-to-lift ratio (D/L), the steep glide slope capability is limited by 
the minimum attainable thrust. Two of the engine operating limits considered are indicated on the 
data plots. These are: 

• Idle: Two idle limits are shown for the 747. For the current 747, the “flight idle” limit is 
activated when airborne with a flap position greater than 22 (normal for landing). 
However, it appears feasible to remove the “flight idle” limit if required for 
noise-abatement approaches. There is no separate “flight idle” limit for the 707/727/737. 

• Anti-Ice: The flight manuals specify a minimum Nj to be maintained in icing conditions 
to provide adequate bleed air temperature and quantity for engine inlet anti-ice. The 
dashed lines labeled as percentage Nj show the approximate EPR associated with the 
minimum Nj requirements. Anti-ice is not necessary at the ambient conditions for these 
plots, but the lines are shown to indicate the limits placed upon the glide slope obtainable 
if it is desired to maintain the specified Nj . For actual icing conditions (colder), the EPR 
corresponding to the specified Nj is higher than the value shown. This further reduces the 
sleep glide slope capability. 

The trimmed 7 capability corresponding to these two limits is summarized in figure 1 for a 
V ref + 1 5 approach speed. It is important to note that the figure 1 data apply to nominal engines on 
a standard day with no margin for modulating thrust to control speed or path. 

If autothrottles are used for speed control, a third limitation on minimum thrust must be 
considered. The autothrottle aft limit is set higher than engine idle for all models. Consequently, the 
trimmed path angle at the autothrottle aft limit will be shallower by the amount shown on figure 
15. The figure 15 increments depend only on the change in T/W between the auto throttle and 
manual throttle limits, so they are approximately applicable to either flap position. 


3.3 THRUST MARGINS 

The upper glide slope angle should be shallower than the nominal trimmed idle-thrustT 
capability of the airplane. This is desirable to provide an allowance for several factors including: 

• Variations from nominal airframe/engine characteristics 

• Nonstandard days 


22 






• Tailwinds 


• Path corrections. 

It was agreed to conduct this feasibility study for nominal airplanes on standard days, so the first 
two factors have not been analyzed. 

The thrust margins (from idle) required for speed control during path corrections and in 
shearing tailwind conditions are discussed below. 

3.3.1 Path Corrections 

Figure 16 illustrates the effect of the path modulation capability (A7) on the distance required 
to correct a one-dot deviation above glide slope. The A 7 capability is the difference between the 
glide slope angle and the earth-referenced 7 £ capability of the airplane. For a given glide slope 
angle, the A 7 capability is increased by headwinds and decreased by tailwinds, as discussed below. 

The A X distances on figure 16 show the distance traveled while correcting a one-dot deviation 
from the glide slope. The one-dot magnitude was selected arbitrarily, since the expected glideslope 
deviations for two-segment approaches were not available. A one-dot deviation is typical of the 
“window” defined for category II flight director certification. For the current NASA/UAL/Collins 
system, a one-dot deviation on the upper glide slope corresponds to a 250-ft altitude error 
(independent of X distance). The cutoff on the allowable distance is based on the assumption that a 
tracking error of this magnitude will probably occur only during glide slope capture (3500 ft for 
LAX); and that it should be possible to correct the error before reaching the start-transition altitude 
(1050 ft). 

The idle thrust data on figure 1 show that the NASA/UAL procedure for the 727 (flaps 30 and 
6° upper glide slope) provides aA7 = -1.2° capability for still-air, minimum-weight conditions. 
Figure 16 indicates this will be satisfactory, particularly since: 

• Some overspeed can be tolerated on the upper path (this increases the A 7 capability due 
to the drag increase). 

• The transition altitude is high enough to adjust to target speed prior to landing. 

• Normally, the aircraft will be operating at heavier weights and in a headwind. 

However, the adequacy of the A 7 capability should be determined from a review of the operational 
flight test results. 


24 




PATH MODULATION CAPABILITY 


FIGURE 16.— GROUND DISTANCE REQUIRED TO CORRECT ONE DOT GLIDE SLOPE OFFSET 

25 










3.3.2 Tailwind (Also See Sec. 4.6) 


The thrust margin required for speed/path control in a shearing tail wind was analyzed. An 
equation was developed that shows that the thrust margin required for speed control in a given tail 
wind is proportional to the glide slope angle, being greater for steeper glide slopes. 

3.3.2. 1 Derivation of Equation 

The derivation of an equation for computing the thrust modulation required for speed control 
was suggested by reference 2, which pointed out that a shearing tailwind has two effects on thrust 
requirements. 

1) Path Angle Effect: When tracking a glide slope in a tailwind, the flightpath angle (7) 
relative to the air mass is steeper than the earth-referenced glide slope (7^^). The 
relationship between the two is a function of wind speed (V w ) and true airspeed (V^) 
and can be derived from the small-angle approximation for sink rate (dh/dt) 

dh/dt- T V A =7 earth (V A + V w ) 

(Ground speed) 

2) Deceleration Effect: An airplane flying in a tailwind is immersed in an air mass that is 
moving in the same direction as the airplane. If the air mass slows down, relative to the 
earth, then the airplane must slow down (ground speed) by the same amount to maintain 
constant airspeed. Since wind speed is usually considered to shear as a function of 
altitude (e.g., 4 kn per 100 ft) then the inertial deceleration required to maintain constant 
speed can be computed from: 

dV/dt = dV w /dh x dh/dt 

* dV w /dh x V G x 7 earth 

(Wind (Ground (Glide slope) 
shear) speed) 


26 



The above equations can be combined with equation (1) to obtain the difference in thrust 
required between still air and shearing tailwind conditions. This difference is given by: 


AT / W dearth 
(rad) 



(1.69)' 


rv ^ (Speeds in knots) 
dh (Altitude in feet) 


( 2 ) 


3.3. 2.2 Data for 10-Kn Reported Tailwind 

Figure 17 presents the thrust margin requirements that result from equation (2) for a tailwind 
profile based on a 10-kn reported wind with a severe shear corresponding to very stable, 
(nonturbulent) atmospheric conditions. The wind speed is 35 kn at altitudes above 1 500 ft. 

The thrust margin A T/W is sometimes expressed in terms of the AT capability (at constant 
speed) and is shown in that form on figure 17. Although the figure 17 data are expressed in terms of 
AY, the thrust margin is required for speed control on the glide slope, and no allowance for path 
tracking errors is included. 

The data for the 3° path illustrate the relative magnitudes of the path angle and deceleration 
effects for the particular tailwind profile used in the study. It is seen that (for this wind profile) the 
path angle (wind velocity) effect predominates at higher altitudes, while the deceleration (wind 
shear) effect predominates closer to the ground at altitudes below the NASA/UAL transition height. 

As seen from equation (2), the thrust margin required for a particular wind profile at a given 
altitude is proportional to^ ear th* The figure 17 data show that the thrust margin required for a 6° 
path exceeds the AY= -1.2° margin provided by procedures defined on figure 2. Hence, the glide 
slopes shown on figure 2 would have to be reduced to provide compatibility with the tailwind 
profile used for this study. This is not recommended, however, for reasons discussed in 
section 4.6.1. 


3.4 PROCEDURES REVIEW 

The 727 two-segment glide slope procedure recommended by NASA/UAL for further 
evaluation by line pilots in revenue service is illustrated on figure 2. This procedure was reviewed for 
feasibility with respect to the approach path performance capability of the Boeing fleet, considering 
such factors as safety, stall margins, wind shear, engine response, FAR 25 requirements, ATC 
procedures, etc. Since terminal area maneuvering, upper glide slope capture, and ILS glide slope 
tracking below 500 ft are essentially the same as for normal ILS approaches, only the steep glide 
slope and transition phases are discussed. 


27 



/ 

^ILWjNO^OMPAmSON^ 




THRUST MARGIN RE<**D FOR 
SPEED CONTROL IN OEFINED TAILWIND 


degrees 


• NO A.LLOWRNCC FOR 



METERS 

FEET 


FIGURE 17.-ANALYS/SOF THRUST MODULATION IN SHEARING TAILWINDS 


28 




The aspects of the procedure discussed in sections 3.4.1 through 3.4.4 below, appear 
satisfactory for all Boeing models. The upper path angles depend on the model and operational 
criteria. 


3.4.1 Gear 

Gear extension during upper glide slope capture is consistent with normal ILS procedures and 
is recommended from a safety, pilot workload, and checklist compatibility point of view. The 
added drag, while contributing to aerodynamic noise, allows the use of steeper glide slopes. 

3.4.2 Reduced Landing Flaps (Maximum Flaps for 747) 

All Boeing models have at least two certified landing flap positions (the 737 has three). Use of 
the reduced flap position is satisfactory where field length permits. Some 707/727/747 operators 
have blocked the maximum flap position so that only the reduced setting is available to their pilots. 
The reduced flap setting reduces noise on the ILS glide slope but decreases the steep glide slope 
capability. Noise trades were not calculated in this study but should be considered before making a 
final recommendation regarding the flap position and path angle. The results of such a trade study 
would be highly dependent on the criteria used for evaluating noise. Since the certified landing 
configurations for the 747 are relatively cleaner than for the other models, maximum flaps were 
used to define the 747 glide slope, while reduced flaps were used for the 707/727/737. 

3.4.3 Speeds 

The two-segment approach speeds (V re f +15 upper segment, V re f + 5 on ILS) appear to be 
safe and reasonable for flying the designated profile with all models. The nominal transition is a 
very gentle maneuver requiring a nominal load factor on the order of 1.01 g to accomplish a 3° 
change in path angle over a 30-sec time period. If speeds are maintained at or above the specified 
values, FAR 25 stall margins will be adequate. The 10-kn speed bleed during the transition is 
considered desirable (in spite of the trim change) because engine response is slow at power settings 
near idle. The extra 10 kn should allow the pilot to perform a smoother spoolup with less concern 
about speed undershoots. 

3.4.4 Transition Altitude 

The hazardous nature of operating turbojet aircraft at high sink rates and low power settings 
‘‘close to the ground” has long been recognized. The difficult question of “how close is too close?” 
has been the subject of a number of simulator and flight evaluations. The altitudes selected by 
NASA/UAL appear reasonable and safe from an engineering point of view, if the pilots consistently 
track the beam. The UAL 727 on-line evaluation should provide useful data in this area. 


29 



Figure 1 8a shows the relationship of the NASA/UAL two-segment glide slope to the airport 
obstacle clearance plane specified by FAR 77.25. Figure 18b shows the altitude separation between 
the nominal profile and the highest allowable obstacle. Since there is adequate obstacle clearance, 
and since the transition allows about 30 sec for spoolup to normal approach power, the nominal 
profile is compatible with engine response characteristics. However, a potentially hazardous 
situation could develop if the pilot were distracted at the start-transition altitude since, timewise, 
the aircraft is about 30 sec above the obstacles if the high sink rate is maintained. 

Approach and landing climb gradient certification under FAR 25 is discussed in section 4.6.1. 

3.4.5 Upper Glide Slope Angles 

Maximum glide slope angles for each model were selected in accordance with the operational 
criteria presented in section 2.0. The maximum glide slope angles provide aA7 =-1.2° path 
modulation capability relative to idle thrust for the nominal airframe/engine, at minimum weight, in 
still air, on a standard day, with minimum landing flaps (maximum flaps for 747), and at V ref + 1 5. 
This is consistent with the NASA/UAL procedure for the 727. The recommended maximum upper 
glide slope angles and the corresponding flap positions and operational limitations are defined on 
figure 2. 

Restricting use of two-segment approaches to nonicing, non tailwind conditions is not viewed 
as a disadvantage of two-segment glide slopes when compared to other noise-abatement approach 
techniques. In fact, one advantage of the NASA two-segment system, when compared to steeper 
ILS beams, is that current ILS glide slope angles and procedures remain available as a backup for use 
in adverse weather conditions. If it is determined that these operational limitations significantly 
detract from the usefulness of two-segment procedures, it is possible, though not recommended, to 
provide the required capability by reducing the upper path angle or using increased flaps (for 
customer aircraft so equipped). 


4.0 TASK ll-AIRPLANE SYSTEMS REVIEW 


4.1 PURPOSE 

The purpose of this task is to assess the adequacy of the autopilot, flight director, and other 
associated systems currently installed in Boeing aircraft for performing two-segment approaches. 
Emphasis is on equipment modification and recertiiication aspects. Consideration was limited to 
systems and procedures similar to those used for the UAL 727 line evaluation. 


30 










4.2 NASA SYSTEM DESCRIPTION 

The NASA two-segment approach system provides the capability to fly two-segment glide 
slopes, using either the flight director or autopilot, under VFR or IFR conditions. The normal ILS 
beam is used for lower segment guidance, while the upper path is computed by the airborne system. 

The two-segment system developed by Collins Radio for the UAL 727 evaluation computes 
the upper path using DME range (DME ground station collocated with the ILS glide slope), field 
elevation (pilot input), and barometric altitude. Guidance and monitoring information are displayed 
to the pilot via the flight director (ADI), the horizontal situation indicator (HSI), and the approach 
progress display annunciator panel. 


4.3 AVIONICS MECHANIZATION CONCEPTS 

Detailed hardware mechanization of the two-segment control laws can be accomplished in 
several different ways while retaining the two-segment path reference concepts developed and 
evaluated by NASA/Collins/UAL. The extent of the fleet retrofit and certification program and the 
ability to use existing system capabilities (e.g., autoland) during two-segment approaches may 
depend on the mechanization concept selected. Consequently, two alternate avionics configurations 
were considered in this study, while using the UAL 727 installation as a baseline. 

The three avionics configurations considered are outlined on figure 1 9. All three use the same 
path reference information as provided by the ILS beam and the existing Collins two-segment 
computer. The differences are in the method and degree of utilization of existing autopilot/flight 
director hardware. Configuration A (Collins unit) uses the “altitude hold” mode for the entire 
approach. Configuration B is the same as configuration A until the ILS beam is captured, at which 
point control is switched to the existing approach mode. Configuration C uses the “approach” 
mode for the entire approach. 

Configuration A was implemented by Collins and has been successfully flight tested on the 
UAL 727. Installation of this unit in other Boeing models is feasible, based on control law 
similarity, although design differences will arise because of variations in ship’s wiring and logic signal 
requirements. Interfacing with the various autopilot and flight director computers is facilitated by 
use of the “altitude hold” mode. This configuration appears suitable for conducting two-segment 
approaches to category II minimums and should not adversely affect current system certification 


32 



CONFIGURATION A 

2 SEGMENT SYSTEM 



CONFIGURATION B 

2 SEGMENT SYSTEM 



CONFIGURATION C 


2 SEGMENT SYSTEM 



FIGURE 19.— COM PA R I SON OF TWO-SEGMENT A V/ONICS CONFIGURATION 


33 




for normal ILS approaches. However, it does not use the existing “approach” mode hardware and 
prohibits the use of autoland** (multichannel) for two-segment operation on those airplanes so 
equipped. 

The alternate configurations (B and C) take advantage of the existing “approach” mode 
hardware, which is already certified, and are compatible with autoland systems. This could permit 
two-segment computer commonality throughout the fleet, thereby eliminating the development of 
a separate set of hardware for autoland systems only. However, configurations B and C are more 
dependent than configuration A on individual autopilot and flight director system characteristics 
and may require more internal modifications to these existing systems. 

It is premature to conclude which avionics configuration is preferable for fleet retrofit until 
detailed analyses (beyond the scope of this feasibility study) have been conducted. Customer 
requirements regarding, avionics commonality and autoland capability, and the extent of the 
required certification effort, should be considered. Detailed configuration definition analyses prior 
to production are viewed as an essential part of a large-scale fleet retrofit program and could be 
conducted in a reasonably short time. 

Design, operational, and certification considerations for the three mechanization concepts are 
summarized in table II. The following sections provide additional details and discussions of the 
avionics configurations considered. 

4.3.1 Configuration A (Collins Unit) 

Figure 20 is a simplified block diagram illustrating how the existing Collins unit provides the 
capability for flying both the upper and lower segments through a typical (727) autopilot. The 
two-segment computer control signal is sent through an interface unit into the “altitude hold” 
mode of the autopilot. The “glide slope engage” relays are not activated. Upper-segment guidance is 
based on DME, field elevation, and barometric altitude. Lower-segment guidance is based on 
DME-programmed ILS glide slope deviation. Path damping for both segments is accomplished 
through “washed out” barometric altitude rate. 

While compatible with category II systems, use of the Collins configuration for autoland 
operation would require a redesign of the autopilot “altitude hold” mode to provide multichannel 
capability. A multichannel system provides fail-passive or fail-operational capability, which is 


**“ Autoland” is used herein as a general term to include all systems approved for operation below category II 
minimums. 


34 



TABLE H.—CONFfGURA TfON DIFFERENCES 


Configuration 

Design 

considerations 

Multichannel 

capability 

Failure 

analysis 

Performance 

analysis 

Test program 
(conducted 
by manufacturer) 

Letter 

Description 

A 

Existing Collins 
unit; controls 
entire approach 
with a command 
signal into the 
"altitude hold" 
mode 

• Implements a 
new set of 
control laws 

• Requires 
sensor (CADC, 
DME, altimeter) 
modification 

None 

Required for 
complete 
approach, 
especially new 
hardware and 
sensors 

Must prove that 
tracking meets 
Advisory Circular 
criteria 
throughout 
approach 

• Approximately 80 
approaches per 
aircraft type 

• Demonstrate 
performance to lower 
weather minima 

• Demonstrate system 
failures during lower 
segment tracking 

B 

Same as A for 
upper segment; 
control trans- 
ferred to 
"approach" 
mode after lower 
segment capture 

• Requires 
change in 
autopilot logic 

• Requires sensor 
(CADC, DME, 
altimeter) 
modification 

Same as 
existing 
autopilot 

Required for 
upper segment 
and transition 
only; existing 
analysis used 
for lower 
segment 

Must prove that 
lower segment 
tracking not 
affected by 
transition 

•Approximately 30 
approaches per 
aircraft type 

• Lower segment already 
certified; must 
demonstrate that 
transition does not 
affect lower segment 
performance 

C 

Entire approach 
controlled via a 
steering signal 
through the 
"approach" 
mode 

Same as B 

Same as B 

Same as B 

Same as B 

Same as B 






















required for operation below category II minimums. Design consideration must be given to 
minimizing tracking errors between channels and to including such items as equalization, confidence 
testing, and fault detection. 


4.3,2 Alternate Configurations (B and C) 

Two other techniques considered for mechanizing the two-segment approach hardware take 
advantage of the already certified approach modes and retain the autoland capability. Simplified 
block diagrams of these configurations (B and C) are presented as figures 2 1 and 22, respectively. 
Configuration B uses the Collins two-segment computer for upper-segment control and transition to 
the ILS through the “altitude hold” mode of the existing autopilot. However, upon reaching a 
prescribed ILS beam deviation, lower-segment control is transferred to the already certified 
approach mode. This transfer of control requires actuation of the several “glide slope engage” relays 
within the existing autopilot system at a low altitude. 

Configuration C uses the existing approach mode during the entire two-segment approach and 
thus does not require autopilot mode switching during the transition. A steering signal generated 
within the two-segment computer (differs from the Collins unit) provides command information for 
upper-segment capture and track and for transition to the ILS. During the transition, the path 
reference signal source is switched from the two-segment computer to the normal ILS, while the 
autopilot remains in the approach mode. To use the approach mode on the upper segment, it is 
necessary to provide a signal (comparable to ILS beam capture) that will close the “glide slope 
engage” relays during upper-segment capture. Other logic signals may be required depending on the 
particular autopilot/flight director system characteristics. 


4.4 ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT 

The following components are required for two-segment operation on a single-channel basis. In 
addition, this list contains their availability in Boeing aircraft. 

VHF NAV RCVR At least two are available in every aircraft; they are standardized on ARINC 
547 characteristics. 

Autopilot Single-channel systems are used in a majority of the 707, 727, 737 fleet. Some 

707s and 727s are provided with monitored or dual-channel systems. All 747s 
have at least dual-channel systems with, in some cases, triple channels. 


37 




FIGURE 21.— SIMPLIFIED TWO-, 



NOTE: 

1. 6/S ENG. = LOWER SEGMENT CAPTURE (L/SQ 


- CONFIGURA T/ON B 



















controller 



NOTE: 

1. G/S = UPPER SEGMENT CAPTURE (U/SC) 


FIGURE 22.— SIMPLIFIED TWO-SEGMENT SYSTEM-CONFIGURATION C 













Autothrottle 


Attitude source 
(vertical gyro 
or INS) 

Radio 

altimeter 


DME 


CADC 


Barometric 

altimeters 


Single-channel systems provide fail-safe operation down to category I or II 
minimums. Monitored and dual-channel systems provide fail-passive operation 
for autoland. Triple-channel systems provide for category Ilia fail-operational 
approaches. 

“Altitude hold” mode and “approach” mode control laws are similar 
throughout the fleet. The 747 triple-channel approach equations are probably 
the most unique but also the most adaptable. Each individual system has its 
own peculiarities with respect to interfacing. 

Some of the fleet has provisions for or installation of the system; all 747s are 
equipped with autothrottles. Section 3.2.3 discusses the penalty, due to aft 
limit requirements, that will result from using current autothrottles during 
two-segment approaches. 

All aircraft are equipped with at least two attitude sources. 


Majority of fleet has at least one system with provisions for a second. The 
autopilot and flight director systems use the radio altimeter output for gain 
programming, initiation of time-based programming, and logic trip points. 

Majority of domestic fleet uses two Collins 860E-2 DMEs, which are 
standardized on ARINC 52 ID. Boeing is in the process of standardizing new 
aircraft with ARINC 568, which provides the pulse-pair output needed for the 
Collins two-segment computer. 

A modification is available from Collins to provide the pulse-pair output on the 
860E-2 DMEs. 

Majority of the 727, 737, and 707 fleet uses either a single or dual Honeywell 
or Kollsman unit standardized on ARINC 545. The early 707s have either a 
KIFIS system or nothing at all. The 747 uses dual CADCs standardized on 
ARINC 565. Any modifications to the 747 CADC require an ARINC change. 
All of the CADC units have an ac synchro altitude output that is not com- 
patible with the existing Collins unit. 

The Boeing fleet in general utilizes either a servopneumatic or electric 
barometric altimeter. Most have a barometric corrected altitude output that is 


40 



an ac signal. The altimeters on the 707, 121 , and 737 have a barometrically 
corrected altitude output via a barometric potentiometer that is used mainly 
for cabin pressure control (both the captain’s and first officer’s units). The 
majority of the 747s have servopneumatic altimeters with a few customers 
having electric. 


4.5 MODIFICATION REQUIREMENTS 

Depending on the two-segment system configuration, several modifications will be required. 
These modifications, although not specifically defined, will occur within the autopilot and flight 
director computers in addition to the two-segment computer. Interfacing and aircraft wiring 
modifications will also be required to accommodate the new computers and customer variations. 
Development testing with the preproduction hardware will determine what modifications will be 
required for the production hardware. Since the transition to the 3° glide slope is slow and gentle, 
there appears to be no requirement for changes to the autopilot authority limit or auto-stab trim 
rates. The existing Collins unit requires a modification of the CADC and barometric altimeter to 
provide a linear altitude output. It would be more desirable for the Collins unit to be modified for 
acceptance, of the present CADC signal. The addition of a second potentiometer to the barometric 
altimeter is dependent on available space and should be avoided. 


4.6 CERTIFICATION PROGRAM 

The NASA /Collins two-segment approach system was evaluated in West Coast passenger 
service by UAL. The Collins unit was installed in a 727-222 airplane, S/N 19913, equipped with an 
SP-50 autopilot. FAA approval for the installation was by supplemental type certificate (STC) 
SA 2679 WE, which permits use of the system during revenue flights on that particular aircraft to 
category I minimums. While approaches to category II minimums were not approved by the STC, it 
is expected that category II capability can be demonstrated by systems using this mechanization 
concept (configuration A). 

Certification of additional installations could be obtained by the individual airlines using the 
STC method. An alternate method would be for the airframe manufacturer to obtain a revision to 
the basic type certificate. The main advantage is that the manufacturer could take into account the 
many system options and configurations in use by the airlines. The certification program should 
also consider possible limitations on the existing airplane certification resulting from the new 
operating procedures. 


41 



4.6.1 Existing Systems 


Installation of the two-segment system will not affect existing certification for normal ILS 
approaches, provided the autopilot/flight director analyses are updated to show that safety has not 
been compromised. When the system is used to fly two-segment approaches, however, several 
possible limitations on current airplane certification must be considered. These include: 

• FAR 25 Climb Gradients: Landing climb gradient certification under FAR 25 is based on 
the thrust attainable within 8 sec after the throttles have been advanced following a 
cutback to idle from approach power. When using the NASA/UAL two-segment approach 
procedure, transition to the normal ILS beam is completed above 500 ft (see sec. 3.4.4). 
Thus, it is expected that FAR 25 climb gradient certification will not be affected because 
normal approach power is established above decision altitudes, and the basic climb 
performance with reduced flap settings is better than with maximum flaps. However, if 
the two-segment procedure is interpreted by the FAA as reducing the “approach” power, 
then the landing climb gradient certification would be affected and redemonstration of 
engine acceleration would be required for the 707/727/737. 

• Autothrottles: The trimmed power setting for the upper glide slope is below current 
autothrottle aft limits (for the procedures shown on figure 2). Consequently, current 
autothrottles cannot be certified for two-segment operation (unless shallower glide slopes 
and/or increased flap settings are used). 

• Anti-Ice: The trimmed power setting for the upper glide slope is below currently 
published operating limits for the wing deice and engine inlet anti-icing systems. 
Certification of the two-segment approach system should be limited to nonicing 
conditions. 

• Tailwinds: Tailwinds, particularly shearing tailwinds, require power reduction for airspeed 
control. Increasing the glide slope angle reduces the tailwind capability. As discussed in 
section 3.3.2, the upper glide slope could be reduced to provide adequate thrust margin 
(from idle) for speed control in a prescribed tailwind. This is not recommended, however, 
for several reasons: 

a) Wind profiles (velocity /shear) are not sufficiently well defined, in terms of 
probability of occurrence, to ensure an acceptable frequency of go-arounds. 

b) Decreasing the glide slope will reduce the noise benefits of the two-segment 

procedures for the vast majority of (nontailwind) approaches. A normal ILS could 

be flown in tailwinds. 

42 



c) The two-segment procedure requires operating the engines at low power settings 
where the engine acceleration is slower than for a normal approach. Tailwinds 
further reduce the power setting and require higher sink rates to track the glide 
slope. If the tailwind shear ceases abruptly, rapid engine acceleration (similar to that 
available during a normal approach) is required to avoid an underspeed. 

Consequently, certification for two-segment operation in reported tailwind conditions is 
not recommended. 


4.6.2 Two-segment System 

The Collins unit does not use the existing autopilot/flight director approach mode. It is, in 
effect, a new approach mode and must be certified as such. The autopilot/flight director 
recertification procedure is described in the following sections. 

4.6. 2.1 Applicable Certification Criteria 


System certification for lower weather minima operation is based on the requirements set 
forth in the FAA Advisory Circulars listed below. 


Category I and II 
Category II 

Category II with autoland 
Category Ilia 


AC 120-29 
AC 20-31 
AC 20-5 7 A 
AC 120-28 A 


Advisory Circulary 1 20-29 sets forth the criteria for certifying the airborne system and ground 
facility to category I or II lower weather minimums. In addition, it presents such items as 
operational requirements, a maintenance program, systems performance requirements, and obstacle 
clearance criteria. 

Advisory Circular 20-3 1 sets forth the criteria for certifying an airborne system to category II 
lower weather minimums. These same criteria are presented in AC 120-29, appendix 1. However, all 
Boeing category II certifications are based on AC 20-31 since the AC 120 series is primarily 
addressed to the air carrier. 


Advisory Circular 20-57A sets forth the criteria for certifying a category II system with 
autoland capability. This includes performance requirements for the ILS facility and the touchdown 
dispersion requirements for the system. Also included is a description of the wind model to be used 
for simulation evaluation of the system. 


43 



Advisory Circular 120-28A sets forth the criteria for approval of category Ilia systems. It 
presents operational concepts, requirements for airports and ground facilities, pilot training and 
proficiency programs, operations procedures, maintenance programs, and the operations demonstra- 
tion and data collection program. Airworthiness approval of the airborne system is based on the 
same requirements presented in AC 20-31 and AC 20-57 A. The requirements for fault analyses and 
reliability studies are also an integral part of AC 1 20-28A. 

Note: Standards and flight checks similar to those for category II or Ilia ILS facilities should 
be established for the DME stations to ensure reliability and accuracy. 

4. 6. 2. 2 Engineering Effort 

Depending on the two-segment configuration, an engineering analysis must be conducted for 
the following items to provide an optimum and certifiable system. 

• A simulation of the two-segment system for each aircraft model must be established for 
adequate evaluation of system performance and failure effects and to optimize the 
two-segment control laws. 

9 The interfacing required for compatibility between the system and the particular aircraft 
must be developed. 

• Failure modes and effects analyses must be conducted to determine circuit changes and 
periodic test requirements. 

s Test program procedures for laboratory testing, aircraft functional testing, and specific 
flight test conditions must be established. 

4.6. 2. 3 Flight Test Program 

The chosen configuration will require a development and certification test program. The 
certification will follow the guidelines established during previous certification programs. Table II 
denotes, in general, the type of certification program for each configuration. The program size is 
based on the particular configuration and the lower weather minima desired. 

The program effort required for configuration A would include a performance evaluation, an 
extensive failure analysis, and a reliability analysis. Existing certification data used for previous 
performance substantiation would not be applicable to this configuration. 


44 



The program effort required for configurations B and C would include mainly an evaluation of 
the upper-segment control and transition to the lower segment. The evaluation would include 
performance aspects in addition to a failure analysis of the transition. Since the lower-segment 
control system is already certified for a particular lower weather minimum, no specific testing need 
be accomplished. 

The number of approaches required for a test program is dependent on the particular 
configuration and on whether the program is conducted by the airplane manufacturer or by the 
individual airline. For example, if a category fl certification is desired on a particular aircraft type 
with configuration A, the aircraft manufacturer could conduct a program of approximately 80 
approaches using the engineering criteria, whereas an airline would be required (by AC 1 20-29) to 
conduct a minimum of 300. The 80 approaches include development and the opportunity to 
incorporate improvements and changes, while the 300 approaches are after a specific production 
system has been established. 

The types of flight test conditions that would be required include a sampling of approaches in 
wind and variations in weight and center of gravity, etc., to evaluate system tracking ability and to 
substantiate computer results. Simulated faults, such as ramps and hardovers at various altitudes, 
would be required to evaluate system safety if the already certified conditions do not apply. 


5.0 TASK III— PROGRAM REVIEW 


This task involves review of the overall NASA two-segment approach evaluation program. The 
UAL and Collins progress reports were reviewed. The overall program appears to provide valuable 
data concerning the operational suitability of two-segment approaches. It is recommended that 
airspeed variations from V r£ f and the number of times the maximum flap position was used to 
avoid overspeed/go-around be included in the flight evaluation documentation. These data, along 
with representative time histories, will be useful in substantiating that the desired approach speed 
margins are maintained and that the thrust margin (AT = -1.2°) used to define the upper glide slope 
angle for the Boeing fleet (fig. 2) is adequate when the procedure is used in an operational 
environment. 


45 



6.0 CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS 


1. The NASA/UAL approach procedures appear feasible for application to the Boeing fleet, with 
the maximum upper glide slopes and operational restrictions shown on figure 2. However, this 
study did not include simulation or flight test and did not consider nonstandard conditions, 
variations from nominal airframe/engine characteristics, or noise trades. Therefore, these 
procedures should be used as a starting point for further study or test programs but should not 
be interpreted as a final Boeing recommendation concerning procedures and systems to be 
introduced into airline service. 

2. Normal ILS procedures should be retained for use in icing conditions or when tailwinds are 
reported. 

3. With the exception of the autothrottles, autopilot, and flight director, existing airplane 
systems (e.g., flaps, trim, hydraulics, etc.) are compatible, without major modification, with 
the two-segment approach procedures defined on figure 2. The upper glide slope capability 
would be substantially reduced (due to the autothrottle aft limit) if compatibility with existing 
autothrottles is required. It should be noted that redemonstration of engine acceleration for 
FAR 25 climb gradient certification would be required for the 707/727/737 if the 
two-segment procedure results in a redefinition of “approach power” (see sec. 4.6). 

4. The Collins avionics configuration (A) can be easily interfaced with the autopilot/flight 
director computers to provide single-channel category II capability, and the modifications 
required to the CADC and barometric altimeter systems could be minimized by redesign of the 
two-segment avionics input/output circuitry. However, Collins avionics configuration A is not 
compatible with autoland systems. The use of an alternate avionics configuration (e.g., 
configurations B or C) would be required to provide autoland capability. This may allow 
two-segment system commonality throughout the Boeing fleet and reduce the certification 
effort. Regardless of the avionics configuration, interfacing and wiring modifications will be 
required, which will differ between the various airplane models. 

5. System implementation should include the development and certification of production 
hardware for each model, evaluation of DME stations to ensure that reliability and accuracy 
requirements are met, and possible additional certification requirements for ILS installations 
(for compatibility with the two-segment system). Regarding avionics certification, the airframe 
manufacturer could obtain a revision to the basic type certificate that covers, with a single test 
program, the wide variations in configurations among customers of a given model. 


46 



REFERENCES 


1. Mechtly, E. A.: The International System of Units, Physical Constants, and Conversion 
Factors. NASA SP-7012, 1969. 

2. Melvin, W. W. (Delta Airlines): Wind Shear on the Approach. Shell Aviation News 
No. 393, 1971. 


47 



