SEOURITV lISfF-ORIS/lATIOrvj 

unclassified* 


CoKT ^ / 
RM L-^gHOla 





RESEARCH MEMORANDUM 

CLASSIFICATION CIIANGS 


TO *1 3NCLASS igrep_, 

By Authciity ottX^9ZZL 
Cbanged by*-Ss5is==i-- 


Date^ 


STRUCTURAL VULNERABILITY OP IHE BOEING B-29 AIRCRAFP 
WING TO miSkGE BY WARHEAD FRA04EHTS 
By Eldon E. Kbrdes and William J- O'Sullivan, Jr. 
Jiangley Aeronautical Laboratory 


Langley Field, Va. 

library COP^ 

For Eeference 

1 MB M 1992 


KCO? TO BE ■ESKEN THIS BOCM 

UN^EY research utniER 
UBRARYNASA 

HAMPTON. VIRGINIA 



Restriction/Classification 


Ttda matarlal contains ln£»iii«tloaa/^onr'ollorl 
of tl» eaplonaga laws, Tltls 18, lUClieu 

maimer to an unauthorized parson Is p 


k 1 States within tbs meaning 
r revelatk>n of wMch. In any 


NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE 
FOR AERONAUTICS 

WASHINGTON 

UNCLASSIFIED 


-9 

• • • 
• • • 
• •• 


• • 

• ••• 

• • • 
• • • 

• • •• 

• • • 

• • 


NACA EM L52H01a 

NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR AERONAUTICS 

RESEARCH MEMORANDUM 

STRUCTURAL VULNERABILITY OF THE BOEING B-29 AIRCRAFT 
WING TO DAMAGE BY WARHEAD FRAGMENTS 
By Eldon E. Kordes and Willlajn J. 0* Sullivan^ Jr. 



SUMMARY 


An elementary type of analysis has heen used to determine the amount 
of wing tip that must be severed to produce irrevocable loss of control 
of a B -29 airplane. The remaining inboard structure of the Boeing B-29 
wing has then been analyzed and cuirv^es are presented for the estimated 
reduction in structural strength due to four general types of damage pro- 
duced by rod-type warhead fragments. The curves indicate the extent of 
structural damage required to produce a kill of the aircraft within 
10 seconds. 


INTRODITCTION 


In the problem of defense against attacking bomber aircraft, it is 
desirable that the elimination of the bomber as a threat be accomplished 
quickly and be evident promptly after defensive action is undertaken in 
order to minimize the expenditure of antiaircraft weapons. Failure to 
destroy the aircraft quickly Increases the radar tracking time and thus 
results in a defensive system that may be saturated by a mass bomber 
attack so that defensive ability is lost. The employment of warheads 
producing large fragments, such as the rod type, capable of inflicting 
severe structural damage to bomber aircraft may afford the desired quick 
kill detectable by radar tracking. 

The vulnerability of bomber aircraft to gunfire, blasts, and rockets 
has been investigated experimentally and reported in references 1 to 4. 

Not all these experimental results, however,, can be extrapolated to assess 
the effectiveness of large fragments, such as the rod type. The objective 
of this report is the determination of the reduction in structural strength 
produced by narrow cuts of various lengths in the wing structure of a 
Boeing B-29 bomber and the determination of the structural members that 
must be severed to produce a quick structural kill. The problem of evalu- 
ating the vulnerability of the Boeing B-29 bomber to a quick structural 


UNCLASSIFIED 


2 


NACA RM L52E01a 


f 


I 


• • 
•• 


• •• 

• • 
• • 


kill is herein considered resolvable into two parts: first, determina- 

tion of the minimum aerodynamic damage that must be inflicted to produce 
irrevocable loss of control j second, determination of the severity of 
structTiral damage required to cause structural failure in order to pro- 
duce the minimum or greater aerodynamic damage. The severity of struc- 
tural damage has been evaluated in terms of the length of cut in the 
structure and the structural members that are severed. 


b 



I 

L 

L2 

^1 

^2 

M 

P 

q 

s 

T 


SYMBOLS 

undamaged wing span, ft 

rolling -moment coefficient of one aileron per unit of aileron 
deflection, l/ deg 

chord of box beam, ft 

average chord of box beam, ft 

section moment of inertia, in. 

effective length of cut, ft 

lift of one -half of undamaged wing, lb 

lift on damsLged half of wing after severance of tip and before 
restitution of total wing lift to its original value, lb 

distance from plane of symmetry to center of lift of one -half 
of undamaged wing, ft 

distance from plane of symmetry to center of lift of damaged 
half of wing after severance of wing tip, ft 

bending moment, lb -in. 

load, lb 

dynamic pressure, Ib/sq ft 
area of undamaged wing, sq ft 
torque, lb -in. 





NACA RM L52H01a 


3 


t 

skin thickness, in. 



yi 

distance from plane 

of symmetry to tip 

of 

^2 

distance from plane 

of symmetry to tip 

of 

5a 

aileron deflection. 

deg 


cr 

stress, Ib/sq in. 



T 

shear stress, Ib/sq 

in. 



■undamaged wlng^ ft 
damaged wing^ ft 


AERODYNAMIC ESTIMAOJES 


The minimum aerodynamic damage corresponding to tracking radar- 
evidence of kill of the bomber is considered to be that -which just pro- 
duces irrevocable loss of control. It is assumed that in order to estab- 
lish evidence of loss of control the radar -will continue to track the 
bomber for a period of about 10 seconds after varhead explosion. The 
period of 10 seconds is considered to be adequate for the aerodynamic 
damage to be treated on the basis of static stability rather than neces- 
sitating dynamic -stability considerations. It is recognized that sever- 
ance of a wing tip by fragments from a warhead leaves the damaged wing 
with a tip that is probably very ragged. This condition precludes the 
possibility of all but the crudest of aerodynamic calculations .and there- 
fore justifies tne approximations employed in the following estimations. 

Selection of flight condition .- It is presiamed that defensive action 
against the approaching bomber is capable of being undertaken at a range 
such that the bomber has not yet entered into the over-target bosibing 
run. Accordingly^ the bomber is assumed to be flying at maximum airspeed 
in order to minimize the time, that it is -within reach of antiaircraft fire. 
The airspeed operational limits employed in the aerodynamic and structiiral 
design of the subsonic B -29 airplane are specified in terms of equivalent 
airspeed^ thus^ the need for assumption of an altitude of the approaching 
bomber is eliminated. The assumed weight of the bomber is that of full 
bomb load and partial fuel load. This choice of loading results in a 
realistic flight condition for the bomber approaching the target area 
and this condition is approximated by design condition E^ positive low 
angle "of attack, of reference 5^ ^or which condition the equivalent air- 
speed is 3^5 miles per hour and the gross weight is 103,000 pounds. 

Rolling moment produced by loss of wing tip .- A wing panel is con- 
sidered in the aerodynamic estimates to consist of all wing plan-form area 
lying to one side of the plane of symmetry, including the aileron and the 


k 


NACA HM L52H01a 


area blanketed by the fuselage and nacelles^ as shown in figure 1. 
Severance of one wing tip is assumed to produce on the damaged wing 
panel a spanwise contraction of the lift distribution without altering 
the spanwise lift distribution of the undamaged wing panel. The con- 
traction is assumed to be such that the local lift per unit of span at 
any given fraction of the span of the damaged panel is equal to the local 
lift per unit of span at the same fraction of the span of the undamaged 
panel. The span^ lateral center of lift, and lift of the damaged wing 
panel before and after severance of the tip are then related by 



( 1 ) 


The total lift of the damaged wing is then 


^1 ^2 


- 


and its rolling moment is 


Li^i - L2l2 = 



It is next assumed that, by an increase of the angle of attack, the lift 
of the dametged wing is restored to that carried by the wing before sever- 
ance of the tip. The factor by which the lift is increased is then 


^^1 

^1 ^2 



When it is assumed that restoration of lift does not further alter the 
lateral center of lift on each wing panel, the damaged-wing rolling 
32ioment is increased by this same factor so that the rolling moment of 
the damaged wing with restored lift is 


NACA RM L52H01a 


5 


2Lili 



1 


+ 




For the assumed flight conditions, the term 2Li is the weight of the 

aii^lane which is 103,000 pounds, and the location of the lateral center 
of lift Z2. is found from reference 5 "to he 30*6 feet. The rolling 
moment of the damaged wing in pound-feet is then 


3,151,800 



( 2 ) 


Restoring momeiit produced by ailerons .- It is tentatively assumed, 
and later verified, that the amount of wing tip that must he severed 
from one wing panel before irrecoverable loss of lateral control is 
incurred is s\ifficient to include the entire aileron of the damaged wing 
panel. Accordingly, it is assumed that the available aileron restoring 
moment is that produced by the one remaining aileron when fully deflected. 
The rolling moment produced by one aileron can be written as 




( 3 ) 


From unpublished measurements of abrupt aileron rolls performed with a 
B -29 airplane and calculated values of wing damping -moment coefficient 
in roll obtained by the method of reference 6, the value of for 

one aileron is estimated to be O.OOO 818 . For the assumed flight condi- 
tion and full aileron deflection of 17 « 5 ^^ the restoring rolling moment 
obtainable from one aileron is calculated to be 1 , 055^000 pound-feet. 
Attainment of this aileron rolling moment is contingent upon severance 
of the wing tip without jamming or destruction of the aileron actuating 
mechanism of the remaining aileron, and the existence of control forces 
on the remaining aileron that are within the physical capabilities of 
the pilot. Each aileron is actuated by a separate control cable. The 
ailerons are individually trimmed to float in neutral position in the 
event of severance of the actuating cables. Unpublished flight tests 


6 


HACA RM L52H01a 


\ • 
• • 
• • 


• •• 

• • 
• • 


• • 

• • • 
• • 


indicate that under the assumed flight conditions the control force 
produced by full deflection of one aileron is well within the physical 
capabilities of the pilot. Attainment of the above aileron rolling 
moment is thus practical. 

Restoring moment produced by dihedral effect .- By deflection of 
the rudder the airplane can be yawed and a restoring rolling moment 
achieved from the dihedral effect. The attainable rudder deflection : 

and the dihedral rolling moment in terms of an equivalent aileron deflec- 
tion can be estimated from unpublished measurements obtained in steady * 

sideslips with a B-29 airplane. From these measurements it is estimated 
that for the undamaged airplane under the assumed flight conditions the 
rudder force per unit rudder deflection is about 90 pounds per degree, : 

the rudder force per unit sideslip angle is about I 80 pounds per degree, 
and the equivalent aileron deflection of a single operable aileron per I 

unit of sideslip angle is about 2.0° per degree. From measurements of 
control forces applied by pilots it is reasonable to assume that a pilot 
can apply for a period of 10 seconds a rudder force of 3 OO pounds. , 

When aid of the copilot is assumed, the total applied rudder force is i 

taken as 6 OO pounds so that a rudder deflection of 6 . 66 ° results. It * 

is thus evident that the amount of dihedral rolling moment that can be 
produced is limited by the rudder control forces rather than by the 
available rudder deflection which is about 17^. The angle of sideslip * 

produced by 6 OO pounds rudder force is about aJid the equivalent 

deflection of a single aileron is about 6 . 66 °. For the assumed flight I 

condition the dihedral restoring moment for the undamaged airplane is 
then computed by formula ( 3 ) to be 401,500 pound feet. ■ 

The dihedral restoring moment of the damaged airplane with severed 
wing tip may be approximated in the following manner: For an airplane j 

like the B-29 having constant dihedral angle along the wing span, the 
spanwise lift distribution produced by the dihedral effect is theoreti- 
cally equivalent to a positive change of Incidence of one wing panel and 
an equal and opposite change of Incidence of the opposite wing panel. i 

Accordingly, the dihedral rolling moment of the undamaged airplane may 
be written as ■ 


+ ^^ 2.^1 “ ^ ^^ 1^1 


and that of the airplane with severed wing tip as 


[ 

ATi2^^ 


NACA RM L52H01a 


7 


• • • 
• • • 
• •• 


• • 

• ••• 

.• • • 
• • • 

• • •• 

: • •• 


so that the ratio ot the dihedral rolling moments of the damaged and 
undamaged airplanes is 


2 AL^^Zi 


In accordance with the assumption of equation (l)^ 


72 Z 2 AL 2 

73_ Z^ AL3_ 


from which by substitution the ratio of the dihedral moments becomes 



2 


The approximate restoring rolling moment attainable on the damaged air- 
plane as a function of amount of severed wing tip is _tben 


401,500 





Amount of severed wing tip producing irrevocable loss of control , - 
Equating the rolling moment produced by severance of a wing tip to the 
restoring moment attainable by full deflection of the remaining aileron 
and the attainable restoring dihedral moment yields for the assumed 
fligiit condition the amount of wing tip that must be severed before there 
ensues irrevocable loss of control, or 


3,151,800 



= l,0p5,000 + 401,500 



Therefore — = O. 58 . The B-29 airplane semispan is 85 O inches. The 
^1 

outboardmost point of severance producing irrevocable loss of control 
is then 493 inches from the plane of symmetry, or about I 7 inches inboard 
of the inboard end of the aileron. 


8 


KACA RM L52H01a 


STRUCTURAL ESTIMATES 


The primary wing structiore of the B-29 is a two -spar box with 
li^t cover skin reinforced with Large hat-type stiffeners. The lower 
spar caps on both the front and rear spars contribute as much as one- 
third of the tension-carrying material on the inboard wing panel (sta- 
tion 0 to 510) because of the wheel-well cutout and. the fuel cell access 
panels. The wing leading and trailing edges contribute very little to 
the strength of the wing and hence are not considered in the estimates 
for the reduction in stiructural strength due to cuts made by warhead 
fragments. 

Since the aerodynamic estimates indicate that it is possible for 
the B -29 airplane to fly with the outboard H-2 percent of the span of 
one -half of the wing removed^ only the inboard panel from station 0 to 
510 is evaluated for reduction in structural strength. 

In a study of this type, the infinite number of possible combina- 
tions of rod size, length, orientation, relative position of warhead at 
time of blast, path of fragments through the structure and possible 
additive effects of several cuts ’makes the problem of a complete struc- 
tural analysis for all combinations practically impossible. Thus the 
following simplifying assumptions have been made and in view of the 
over-all uncertainties they are belle-ved to be Justified. 

Assumptions .- The assumptions are as follows; 

( 1 ) The inner-wing panel (station 0 to 510) is divided into four 
bays that are approximately constant in structural configuration and/or 
net wing loading. The extent of each bay is shown in figure 1 and the 
net wing loading of Ig for design condition E, positive low angle of 
attack, (see ref. 5) is given in figure 2. The bays are designated 

(a) Station k2 to I 36 . This bay extends from the fuselage 
Jxmction to the wheel-well cutout. 

(b) Station I 36 to 202. This bay Includes the wheel-well cut- 
out and the Inboard engine mount. 

(c) Station 202 to 370 • This bay extends from oufboard of the 
wheel well to the outboard engine. 

(d) Station 370 to 510 . This bay extends from the outboard 
engine to the inboard end of the aileron. 

( 2 ) The structural stability under combined loads must "be considered 
as well as the mem’ber stress developed after damage. 


NACA RM L52H01a 


9 


(3) The rod fragments are assumed to originate at infinity and to 
he capable of cutting completely through any memher or members of the 
primary wing stincture. The path of the fragment is taken to be per- 
pendicular to the plane of the wing. 

(4) All estimates of the reduction in structural strength are based 
on single rods of various lengths each cutting the undamaged wing. 

(5) All cuts that are parallel to the wing spars are considered to 
inflict zero damage to the primary wing structure unless a rib is cut. 

(6) The chordwise position of the cut between spars is assumed to 
be \inimportant j only the amo\mt of stressed material removed is of 
primary importance . 

(7) If the cut does not include a rib or spar^ the extent of damage 
to the cover sheet and stringers is equivalent to a chordwise cut equal 
to the projected length of the actual cut. 

Types of damage .- Because of the random nature of the cut orienta- 
tion relative to the wing chord and the foregoing assumptions^ it was 
felt advisable to consider only the fo3J_owing general types of damage 
for this investigation: 

(1) Various length continuous chordwise cuts through both the upper 
and lower cover sheets and stringers. Each cut is considered to be 
centered between the spars. (See fig. 3(a).) 

(2) Various length continuous cuts through one rib and both upper 
and lower cover sheets. Each cut is assumed to be centered on the rib 
and at a slight angle to the plane of the rib. (See fig. 3("b)*) 

(3) A cut through either the front or rear spar. This damage is 
considered to sever completely the upper and lower spar caps and the 
web. (See fig. 3(c).) 

(4) A cut through one spar and one rib. This cut is considered to- 
be located near the rib-spar Junction but does not include any stringers. 
(See fig. 3(d).) 

Estimates of the reduction in structural strength . - The amount of 
work Involved in making a complete structural analysis of the B-29 air- 
plane to include the types of deumage listed above and the possible com- 
binations of this damage would be several times the work required for 
the original stress analysis of the B-29. Therefore^ the following 
estimates in the reduction in structural strength of the primary wing 
structure of the B-29 deduced from elementary calculations and 
engineering Judgment. 


10 


NACA RM L52H01a 


The results or the InvestigatiorL are given in fig\ire h as the esti- 
mated reduction in structural strength for the four types of damage 
considered. A "brief discussion of the analysis procedure and sample 
calculations for bay (a) (station k2 to 136 ) are presented in the appendix. 

Although the results presented herein do not include analyses of the 
fuselage and tail surfaces^ it is believed that, because of similar con- 
struction of the vring and tail surfaces, the results presented for the 
wing will generally apply to the tall as regards structural damage . For 
the fuselage, it is felt that approximately 50 percent of the structural 
material must be removed from a section of the fuselage, excluding the 
bomb-bay region, to cause structural failure. 


DISCUSSION OF RESULTS 


From the results shown in figure 4, the following general observa- 
tions can be made: 

( 1 ) A 10-second structural kill of the airplane cannot be obtained 
by a full chordwise cut. through the cover sheets and stringers. TMs 
result is obtained because the spar flanges will behave as short columns 
across the cut and are capable of carrying load well above the yield 
stress of the material. The lower spar flanges alone are capable of 
carrying the tension load. The spar webs are capable of carrying the 
vertical shear load plus the torsion load in vertical shear. The margin 
of strength remaining after a full chordwise cut, however, is small 
enough that other factors such as a deflection of the aileron may be 
enough to cause failure. 

( 2 ) A cut through one rib and the cover sheets and stringers can 
produce a 10-second structural kill of the airplane. Damage to a rib 
effectively Increases the rib spacing so that, if enough cover sheet 
and stringers are cut, the upper spar flanges can buckle. There is also 
an appreciable reduction in torsional strength due to damage to a rib 
and adjacent cover sheet. 

( 3 ) The cutting of one spar can produce a 10-second structural kill 
only at a section with a large cutout. At a section with a cutout, the 
one remaining spar and one cover sheet and’ stringers will be structurally 
unstable under the combined Ig loads. If the spar is cut at a section 
without a cutout, the cover ^eets and stringers are capable of trans- 
ferring the spar loads aroimd the cut. 

(4) A 10-second structural kill can be obtained by cutting one spar 
and one rib. The cutting of either rib adjacent to the spar cut prevents 


NACA RM L52H01a 


11 


the transfer of spar loads around the cut and^ in addition, increases 
the effective rib spacing and allows the undajmaged spar and cover sheets 
to become less stable. 

The reductions in structural strength shown in figure h. can be 
added to a certain extent to obtain a measure of the total damage 
although most of the effects of the cuts cannot be added in a 1:1 ratio. 
In general, the extent to which the damage is additive can be stated 
as follows ; 

(1) The cuts must be in a section between two ribs if the ribs are 
undamaged. 

(2) Damage to the cover sheets and stringers is additive only to 
the extent that common stringers are not cut. 

(3) Damage to a spa:r and to the cover sheets and stringers are 
additive between ribs, particularly if the cover damage is extensive 
or near the spar cut. 

(4) . In general, the effect of damage between two undamaged ribs 
is additive but reasonable care must be taken in determining the con- 
tribution of each cut to the over-all reduction in structural strength. 

Throughout this investigation, no consideration has been given to 
the redistribution of the spanwise loadings due to a change in angle of 
.attack caused by damage to the wing structure. Changes in the air load 
are produced by some types of damage, particularly damage to the spars. 


CONCLUDING REMARKS 


It has been found by an elementary type of aerodynamic analysis 
based on static -stability consideration that at least 42 percent or 
29.7 iest of the tip of one wing panel including the entire aileron 
must be removed in order to produce irrevocable loss of control of the 
Boeing B-29 airplane. The remaining inboard part of the wing panel has 
been considered to be the region in which structural failure must occur 
to produce a kill of the aircraft within 10 seconds. This inboard part 
of the Boeing B-29 aiirplane wing was considered to be damaged by rod- 
type warhead fragments and the main wing structure was analyzed to obtain 
the estimated reduction in structural strength due to four general types 
of damage produced by the rod fragments. The extent to which structural 
strength is reduced by the assumed types of damage has been estimated by 
engineering judgment and elementary calculations. 



12 


NACA RM L52H01a 


The results of the structural analysis indicate that the Boeing B-29 
airplane wing is relatively invulnerahle to 10 -second-kill damage to the 
structure by rod-type fragments. In general, \inless a spar is cut the 
damage must effectively encompass n~l 1 structural material between spars. 


Langley Aeronautical Laboratory, 

National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, 
Langley Field, Va. 


Eldon E. Kordes 

Aeronautical Re search. Scientist 



Approved: 

Chief of Structures Research Division 



Chief 





Joseph A. Short al 
tless Aircraft Research Division 


JLC 


NACA RM L52H01a 


13 


APPENDIX 


SAMPLE CALCULATIONS FOR BAY (a) 

If all the cover sheets and stringers between spars are cut, the 
torque must be carried by the spar webs and flanges as vertical shear. 
The net' beam shear and net torque at station 100 for Ig loading are 

T = 4-70,000 lb /in. 

Pg = 20,000 lb 

If the shear and torsion are assumed to be distributed to the spars as 
shown in the follow^'ng sketch 



Ik 


NACA RM L 52 H 01 a 


If the shear is carried by the spar webs only 


Tt = Ib/in. (front spar) 


Shear stress on front spar web 


r =. = 6,1+00 Ib/sq in. 

0.072 ^ ^ ^ 


and the allowable shear stress (ref. 5) is 2i^',800 pounds per square inch. 
Therefore, the shear web is not critical. 

When the same configuration as shown in the preceding sketch is used, 
the stresses in the spar flanges due to the combined action of beam and 
chord bending moments are determined as follows: 

= 9.76 X 10^ Ib-ia. 

Me = -620,000 Ib-ln. 


Ix = 1^570 


ly = 63,850 in.^ 

^y 


For flange A (compression) 


a = 55,^0 Ib/sq in. 


NACA RM L52H01a 


15 


For flange B (compression) 


cr = ^ 3^500 I’b/sq in. 


For flange C (tension) 


cr = l4,800 Ib/sq in. 


For flange D (tension) 


a = 13^000 Ib/sq in. 


If the yield stress of the flange material is assumed to be the 
upper limit of the structural, strength^ the two upper flanges are above 
the critical stress. Although the stresses in the upper flanges are 
above the yield stress of the material^ the flanges act as short columns 
across a narrow slit and hence can carry the load without buckling. 


l6 


WACA RM L52H01a 


REFERENCES 


1. Weiss^ Herbert K. , and Stein, Arthur: Airplane Vulnerability and 

Overall Armaioent Effectiveness. Memo. Rep. No. k€2f Ballistic 
Res. Lab., Aberdeen Proving Grounds, May 21, 19^7 • 

2. Sperrazza, Joseph; Vulnerability of B-29 Aircraft to Internal Blast. 

Memo. Rep. No. kSO, Ballistic Res. Lab., Aberdeen Proving Grounds, 
Apr. 27, 1949. 

3. Robins, Alexander: Evaluation of Damage to B-29 Inner-Wing Panels 

Caused by the 2.75-Inch Folding -Fin Aircraft Rocket. NAVORD 
Rep, 1902, 'NOTS L26, U. S. Naval Ordnance Test Station, Inyokem, 
Calif., Aug. 21, 1951. 

i)-. Robins, Alexander: Evaluation of Damage to B-29 Aircraft Structure 

Caused by the 2.75-Inch Aircraft Rocket. NAVORD Rep. 1928, 

NOTS 459 j U. S. Naval Ordnance Test Station, In3rokem, Calif., 

Nov. 27, 1951. 

5. Kruchek, K. : Wing Stress Analysis. Vol. I, Rep. No. B-hk&Sf Boeing 

Aircraft Co . , Aug . 19^3 • 

6. Pearson, Henry A., and Jones, Robert T. : Theoretical Stability and 

Control Characteristics of Wing With Various Amoimts of Taper and 
Twist. NACA Rep. 635, 1938. 


• • • 

• • • 

• •• 

• 

• ••• 

• • • 

• • • 

• • •• 

• • • 























NACA RM L52H01a 



•«•••: 


•• •• 

; • .• 


INDEX 


Subject 


Airplanes - Specific Types 
Stability and Control 
Structures 


Number 


1.7.1 . 2 
1.8 
4.3 


ABSTRACT 


An elemental^ type of analysis has been used to determine the 
amoiint of wing tip that must be severed to produce irrevocable loss of 
control of a B-29 airplane. The remaining inboard structure of the 
B -29 wing has then been analyzed and curves are presented for the esti- 
mated reduction in structural strength due to four general types of 
damage produced by rod-type warhead fragments. The curves indicate the 
extent of structural damage required to produce a kill of the aircraft 
within 10 seconds. 




I 


UNCLASaHEEU- 









