NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE 
FOR AERONAUTICS 


EFFECTS ON LONGITUDINAL STABILITY AND CONTROL 
CHARACTERISTICS OF A BOEING B-29 AIRPLANE 
OF VARIATIONS IN STICK-FORCE AND CONTROL-RATE 
CHARACTERISTICS OBTAINED THROUGH USE OF 
A BOOSTER IN THE ELEVATOR-CONTROL SYSTEM 


By CHARLES W. MATHEWS, DONALD B. TALMAGE, and JAMES B. WHITTEN 


For sale by the Superintendent of Documents. U. S. Government Printing Office, Washington 25. D. C. Yearly subscription. $9.75; foreign, $11.00; 


REPORT 1076 


THIS DOCUMENT ON LOAN FROM THE FIIES OF 





1952 



single copy price varies according to siae 





/ 


J& 


X - 


* 









REPORT 1076 


EFFECTS ON LONGITUDINAL STABILITY AND CONTROL 
CHARACTERISTICS OF A BOEING B-29 AIRPLANE 
OF VARIATIONS IN STICK-FORCE AND CONTROL-RATE 
CHARACTERISTICS OBTAINED THROUGH USE OF 
A BOOSTER IN THE ELEVATOR-CONTROL SYSTEM 


By CHARLES W. MATHEWS, DONALD B. TALMAGE, and JAMES B. WHITTEN 


Langley Aeronautical Laboratory 
Langley Field, Va. 


i 


National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics 

Headguarters, 17 '2 1+ F Street NW, Washington 25 , D. C. 

Created by act of Congress approved March 3, 1915, for the supervision and direction of the scientific study 
of the problems of flight (U. S. Code, title 50, sec. 151). Its membership was increased from 12 to 15 by act 
approved March 2, 1929, and to 17 by act approved May 25, 1948. The members are appointed by the President, 
and serve as such without compensation. 

Jerome C. Hunsaker, Sc. D., Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Chairman 

Alexander Wetmore, Sc. D., Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, Vice Chairman 


Detlev W. Bronk, Ph. D., President, Johns Hopkins Univer- 
sity. 

John H. Cassady, Vice Admiral, United States Navy, Deputy 
Chief of Naval Operations. 

Edward U. Condon, Ph. D., Director, National Bureau of 
Standards. 

Hon. Thomas W. S. Davis, Assistant Secretary of Commerce. 

James H. Doolittle, Sc. D., Vice President, Shell Oil Co. 

R. M. Hazen, B. S., Director of Engineering, Allison Division, 
General Motors Corp. 

William Littlewood, M. E., Vice President, Engineering, 
American Airlines, Inc. 

Theodore C. Lonnquest, Rear Admiral, United States Navy, 
Deputy and Assistant Chief of the Bureau of Aeronautics. 


Hon. Donald W. Nyrop, Chairman, Civil Aeronautics Board. 

Donald L. Putt, Major General, United States Air Force, 
Acting Deputy Chief of Staff (Development). 

Arthur E. Raymond, Sc. D., Vice President, Engineering, 
Douglas Aircraft Co., Inc. 

Francis W. Reichelderfer, Sc. D., Chief, United States 
Weather Bureau. 

Gordon P. Saville, Major General, United States Air Force, 
Deputy Chief of Staff (Development). 

Hon. Walter G. Whitman, Chairman, Research and Develop- 
ment Board, Department of Defense. 

Theodore P. Wright, Sc. D., Vice President for Research, 
Cornell University. 


Hugh L. Dryden, Ph. D, Director 


John F. Victory, LL. D., Executive Secretary 


John W. Crowley, Jr., B. S., Associate Director for Research 


E. H. Chamberlin, Executive Officer 


Henry J. E. Reid, D. Eng., Director, Langley Aeronautical Laboratory, Langley Field, Va. 

Smith J. DeFrance, B. S., Director Ames Aeronautical Laboratory, Moffett Field, Calif. 

Edward R. Sharp, Sc. D., Director, Lewis Flight Propulsion Laboratory, Cleveland Airport, Cleveland, Ohio 


TECHNICAL COMMITTEES 

Aerodynamics Operating Problems 

Power Plants for Aircraft Industry Consulting 

Aircraft Construction 


Coordination of Research Needs of Military and Civil Aviation 
Preparation of Research Programs 
Allocation of Problems 
Prevention of Duplication 
Consideration of Inventions 


Langley Aeronautical Laboratory, 
Langley Field, Va. 


Ames Aeronautical Laboratory, Lewis Flight Propulsion Laboratory, 
Moffett Field, Calif. Cleveland Airport, Cleveland, Ohio 


Conduct , under unified control , for all agencies , of scientific research on the fundamental problems of Jlight 


Office of Aeronautical Intelligence, 

Washington, D. C. 

Collection t classification , compilation , and dissemination of scientific and technical information on aeronautics 


II 


REPORT 1076 


EFFECTS ON LONGITUDINAL STABILITY AND CONTROL CHARACTERISTICS 
OF A BOEING B-29 AIRPLANE OF VARIATIONS IN STICK-FORCE AND 
CONTROL-RATE CHARACTERISTICS OBTAINED THROUGH USE 
OF A BOOSTER IN THE ELEVATOR-CONTROL SYSTEM 1 

By Charles W. Mathews, Donald B. Talmage, and James B. Whitten 


SUMMARY 

The longitudinal stability and control characteristics of a 
Boeing B-29 airplane have been measured with a booster incor- 
porated in the elevator -control system. Tests were made to 
determine the effects on the handling qualities of the test air- 
plane of variations in the pilot's control-force gradients as well 
as the effects of variations in the maximum rate oj control 
motion supplied by the booster system. 

The variations of elevator-control force with normal acceler- 
ation for the test airplane without boost were about 90 pounds 
per g at an indicated airspeed of 160 miles per hour and about 
llfi pounds per g at 250 miles per hour. These control forces 
were considered by the pilots to be tolerable but heavy. Use of 
the booster to reduce these control-force gradients by a factor of 
about 2.8 appreciably improved the control characteristics of the 
test airplane. Reduction of the force gradients by a factor of 
about 4-6 through use of the booster also resulted in satisfactory 
control characteristics in terms of the pilots' opinions of their 
ability to control the airplane precisely in normal flight ma- 
neuvers, although these force gradients were not so desirable as 
with the boost ratio of 2.8. The effect of these lower force gra- 
dients on the probability of exceeding the limit load factor could 
not be investigated. 

The results of the control-rate investigation indicate that large 
airplanes may have satisfactory handling qualities with the 
booster adjusted to give much lower rates of control motion than 
those normally used by pilots. During landings of the test air- 
plane, high rates of control motion were used by the pilots both 
without the booster and with the booster operating under condi- 
tions where high control rates were available from the system, 
but other landings, which were made with the rate of elevator 
motion restricted to values as low as 7° per second, were satis- 
factory from the standpoint of the pilots' opinions of the 
handling qualities of the airplane. 

INTRODUCTION 

There is a current trend to the use of booster systems for 
operating the control surfaces of airplanes. The use of 
boosters results primarily from a need for alleviating the 
large control forces associated with large airplanes, for im- 
proving the maneuvering capabilities of high-speed fighter 

1 Supersedes NACA TN 2238, “Effects on Longitudinal Stability and Control Charactei 
Through Use of a Booster in the Elevator-Control System” by Charles W. Mathews, Donald 


airplanes where control deflections are limited by the physical 
capabilities of pilots, and for improving the control-force 
characteristics where the aerodynamic hinge moments of the 
control surfaces have unsatisfactory variations. 

Because the requirements for boosters involve considera- 
tion of the airplane and the pilot, the National Advisory 
Committee for Aeronautics has undertaken a flight investi- 
gation of a booster system installed in the elevator-control 
system of a Boeing B-29 airplane. An analysis and bench 
test of this booster are presented in reference 1 . 

When boosters are used, two alternatives exist with re- 
gard to the provision of pilot’s control forces. For many 
systems a given percentage of the aerodynamic hinge moment 
on the control surface is fed back to the pilot’s stick while 
for other systems, where the aerodynamic hinge moments 
have unsatisfactory variations, no feedback of the aero- 
dynamic forces is provided and the stick forces are created 
mechanically. The present investigation was concerned 
with the type of system which provides for a feedback of the 
aerodynamic forces. The test booster system had provision 
for varying the magnitude of this force feedback over a 
wide range, and the effects of the magnitude of the pilot’s 
stick forces on the handling qualities of the test airplane 
were investigated. 

Another important booster parameter affecting airplane 
handling qualities is the maximum rate of control motion 
supplied by the system. The test booster had provisions 
for varying the maximum available control rate, and the 
effects of such variations were investigated. 

Measurements of the longitudinal stability and control 
characteristics were obtained for the test airplane both 
without the booster and with the booster operating to pro- 
vide various stick-force and control-rate characteristics. 
Results obtained from these measurements are presented 
herein. 

SYMBOLS 

F e elevator-control force 
q c impact pressure 
5 C elevator deflection 
C N normal-force coefficient 
n limit load factor 

ristics of a B-29 Airplane of Variations in Stick- Force and Control-Rate Characteristics Obtained 
B. Talmage, and James B. Whitten, 1951. 


1 


2 


REPORT 1076 NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR AERONAUTICS 


BOOSTER INSTALLATION 

A description of l lit' booster and a discussion of its oper- 
ation are given in reference 1 . The schematic arrangement 
of the system is shown in figure 1 and a photograph of the 
test unit is shown as figure 2. The booster was installed 
on the pilot’s side (left side) of the elevator-control system 
of the B-29 airplane. The orientation of the booster in the 
airplane is shown in figure 3. This booster system had 
been tested previously as a bench setup. Results of these 
bench tests, reported in reference 1, show that this system is 
satisfactorily free from chatter, dead spots, excessive lag, 
friction, and other undesirable characteristics which might 
adversely affect the pilot’s opinions of the handling qualities 
of the test airplane. 

Several important features of the flight -test version of the 
booster system are not described in reference 1. With re- 
gard to variations in the magnitudes of the control forces, 


the part of the total elevator hinge moment fed back to 
the pilot was made adjustable through use of a manual 
control. The ratio of total control force to pilot-held force 
(boost ratio) is equal to the ratio of the length l to the 
length d shown in figure 1, and the manual control changed 
the boost ratio by varying the position of the point A shown 
in figure 1. With regard to variations in maximum avail- 
able control rate, this booster is built around a variable- 
displacement hydraulic pump and operates so that the 
velocity of the control surface is proportional to the error 
in position between the control surface and the stick. The 
flight-test version of the booster was rigged so that a 1 K° 
error in position (referred to the stick) would produce the 
maximum available flow of fluid from the pump. This con- 
dition corresponds to the maximum rate of control motion 
when the control rate is not restricted by other means that 
are discussed subsequently. Mechanical stops (see fig. 1) 
were placed in the system so that when this \){° error in 




(b) 


Con trot- surface velocity up 



Control -surface velocity down 


(a) Booster arrangement. 

(b) Hydraulic-pump operation. 

Figure 1.— Schematic arrangement of the booster unit used in the elevator-control system of the B-29 airplane. 


STABILITY AND CONTROL OF A B~29 AIRPLANE WITH A BOOSTER IN THE ELEVATOR-CONTROL SYSTEM 


3 


position was attained, the stick could be moved no faster 
than at a rate corresponding to the maximum of the system 
(an elevator rate of 100° per second with no restriction). 
In addition to these fixed stops, a set of adjustable stops 
were placed on the pump control arm as a means for further 
restricting the maximum control rate. The push-pull rod 
to the pump control arm was not rigidly attached but was 
attached with a preloaded spring arrangement. This de- 
vice was used so that, in spite of a rate restriction, the pilot 
could still move his stick (against the spring force) at any 
rate desired until the fixed stops were contacted (1%° error 
in stick position). These springs were preloaded to 8)2 
pounds as measured at the stick. The ratio between 
motions of the control arm and the stick was 15 radians per 
radian. 

A set of centering springs was installed on the pump control 
arm to prevent a small residual oscillation from occurring in 
the boost system. This oscillation has been encountered 
during bench tests (see reference 1) and was eliminated 
through use of centering springs. These springs, which 
supply a damping force at the stick proportional to the rate 
of control motion, had a constant of 0.06-pound stick force 
per degree per second rate-of-control motion. A small 
dashpot type of viscous damper was connected to the control 
arm in order to smooth further the action of the servovalve 
which operated the pump. The damper applied 0.065 inch- 
pound torque to the control arm per degree per second rate of 
motion of the control arm. The torque on the control arm 
required to overcome the static friction in the servovalve was 



Figure 2.— The booster unit used in the elevator-control system of the B-29 airplane. 


0.047 inch-pound. The force required at the stick to over- 
come the friction in the linkages to the control arm was 
approximately )\ pound. Installation of a control-position 
pickup on the pump control arm, however, increased the 
friction present at the stick to about 1 % pounds. This 
control-position pickup also increased the constant of the 
centering springs by a small amount. The electric motor 
used to drive the variable-displacement pump of the booster 
unit is rated at 2 horsepower and 4,000 rpm. The pump 
delivers about 3.3 gallons per minute at maximum displace- 
ment and the maximum operating pressure is 1,250 pounds 
per square inch. The estimated increase in the gross weight 
of the test airplane resulting from installation of the booster 
unit is 80 pounds; however, no particular effort was made to 
minimize the weight of the installation. 

The booster output was applied to a quadrant beneath the 
pilot’s stick and operated the elevator through the cable 
system in the airplane. (See fig. 3.) A cam-operated cable 
clamp was used as a safety device so that the pilot’s cable 
system could be disconnected from the quadrant in event of 
boost failure. Use of this device was possible because the 
cable systems to the elevator from the pilot’s and copilot’s 
stick are independent in the B-29 airplane. In addition, 
a manually operated hydraulic bypass was provided. 

The longitudinal control system of the test airplane was 
selected for the booster investigation because elevator-force 
variations were felt to be the most critical from handling- 
qualities considerations and because rate-of-elevator move- 
ment is important at least during landings and take-offs. 
The B-29 airplane was chosen for these tests because it repre- 
sents a large airplane having inherent elevator-force varia- 
tions that are satisfactory but having elevator forces that 
are somewhat high in relation to the present handling- 
finalities requirements. The test airplane was flown at a 
gross weight of about 108,000 pounds and with the center of 
gravity at about 25 percent of the mean aerodynamic chord. 
A three- view drawing of the B-29 airplane is presented in 
figure 4, and some general specifications of the airplane are 
listed in table I. 

INSTRUMENTATION AND MEASUREMENTS 


Standard NACA instruments were used. The following 
table presents a list of these instruments and the quantities 
that were measured: 


Measured quantity 

NACA instrument 

Stick position - 

Mechanical control position recorder. 

Electrical control position recorder. 

Mechanical control position recorder. 

Mechanical control position recorder. 

Strain-gage wheel force recorder. 

Hydraulic pressure recorder. 

Airspeed recorder and indicator. 

Recording and indicating normal accelerometers. 
Pitch turnmeter. 

Timer synchronizing all records. 

Elevator position - 

Booster-control-arin position 

Stick quadrant position. 

Elevator-control force 

Booster hydraulic pressure 

Airspeed 

Normal acceleration 

Pitch ins: velocity 




The airspeed system utilized in these tests was the service 
svstem oi the airplane. 1 he flush static oiifices of this 
system are located on the side of the fuselage just rearward 


4 


REPORT 1076 NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR AERONAUTICS 


of the pilot’s cockpit. These orifices were calibrated for 
position error through use of an NACA trailing airspeed 
head. The airspeed used herein corresponds to the reading 
of a standard Air Force-Navy indicator connected to a 
pitot-static head which is free from position error. This 
airspeed is equal to true airspeed under standard sea-level 
conditions. 

RESULTS ANI) DISCUSSION 

General. — An initial phase of the investigation was con- 
cerned with tests to determine whether the incorporation of 
(he booster system in the B-29 airplane altered the control 
characteristics in any way other than to change the magni- 
tude of the control forces. 


The measured static longitudinal stability characteristics 
of the test airplane are presented in figure 5 for conditions of 
boost ratio 1 (no boost), boost ratio 2.8, and boost ratio 4.6 
where boost ratio is defined as the ratio of the total control 
force to the control force held by the pilot. In the figure, 
pilot's elevator force divided by impact pressure F e !q[c and 
elevator deflection from neutral b e are plotted against air- 
plane normal-force coefficient C N . Results measured in 
steady flight for the clean condition are shown in figure 5 (a), 
and corresponding results are presented in figure 5 (b) for 
the landing condition. 

As would be expected, no alterations in stick-fixed charac- 
teristics ( b e against C N ) resulted from use of the booster. 



L-64873 


Figure 3. — Orientation of booster unit in B-29 airplane. 


STABILITY AND CONTROL OF A B~29 AIRPLANE WITH A BOOSTER IN THE ELEVATOR-CONTROL SYSTEM 



Figure 4. -Three-view drawing of B-29 airplane. 


REPORT 1076 NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR AERONAUTICS 





(a) Clean condition. Flaps and gear up; normal rated power. (b) Landing condition. Flaps and gear down; power off. 

Figure 5. — Effect of the booster on the static longitudinal stability characteristics of the B-29 airplane. 


Although the elevator-force variations with normal-force 
coefficient were reduced approximately in inverse proportion 
to the boost ratio, the general behavior of these variations 
was not significantly altered by the booster. Note, for 
example, that the results for the clean condition (fig. 5 (a)), 
both with and without boost, show that the control forces 
tended to lighten as the stalling speed was approached. The 
flight data obtained from these static-stability tests showed 
appreciably more scatter with boost off than with boost on 
particularly at high normal-force coefficients (low speeds). 
The difference in the scatter obtained between boost-on and 
boost-off tests is a reflection of the fact that the pilots 
could attain and hold a given trim speed more easily with the 
booster operating. This scatter is probably caused by the 
large magnitude of the friction present in the elevator- 
control system of the test airplane (about 25 lb when 
measured on the ground). This friction was reduced along 
with the aerodynamic forces through use of the booster. 

In order to determine whether the booster altered the 
control characteristics of the test airplane under conditions 
of rapid control movements or with the controls free, a series 
of abrupt pull-ups were made, each followed by release of the 
control stick. These maneuvers were made both with boost 


ratio 2.8 and without boost. The available rate of control 
motion for the tests with boost on was 100° per second. 
Time histories of the airplane motions, control motions, and 
control forces obtained during these tests at an indicated 
airspeed of 160 miles per hour are presented in figure 6 (a) 
and time histories obtained at- 250 miles per hour are pre- 
sented in figure 6 (b). The curves showing the rate of con- 
trol motion presented in the time histories with boost on were 
determined from measurements of the position of the pump 
control arm which is proportional to control rate. Similar 
variations were not obtained for the boost-off tests because 
the method of measurement was not applicable to the direct 
control system. 

Comparison of the boost-off and boost-on time histories at 
both airspeeds shows that the pilot applied a much more 
abrupt control deflection when working against the smaller 
forces encountered with the booster in operation. In both 
cases the pilot intended to apply control as abruptly as 
possible. Even for the rapid control motions used in the 
boost-on tests, no appreciable lag existed between motion of 
the stick and the control surface. (See fig. 6.) For the 
abrupt pull-up at 160 miles per hour with boost ratio 2.8 the 


STABILITY AND CONTROL OF A B 29 AIRPLANE WITH A BOOSTER IN THE ELEVATOR-CONTROL SYSTEM 


7 



(a) Indicated airspeed; 160 miles per hour. 

Fir, i re 6. Time histories of abrupt pull-ups of the B-29 airplane each followed by release of the control stick showing the effects of the booster 


stick-force variation shown in figure 6 (a) exhibits a peak 
which is not present for the pull-up without boost. This 
force peak, which is in phase with the rate of control motion, 
results at least in part from the use of centering springs on 
the pump control arm. This component of the control force 
opposes the control velocity. I he force is of significant 
magnitude only when this rate of control motion is very high 
as may be seen by the lack of this force peak lor the abrupt 
pull-up, boost on, at 250 miles per hour where the stick was 


moved at a slower rate. This characteristic was not objec- 
tionable to the pilots. Results of other handling-qualities 
investigations have indicated that such forces may be 
advantageous since a more adequate warning ot possible 
large normal accelerations is presented to the pilot whenever 
control is applied rapidly. Another point worth noting from 
these time histories is that the largest control rate used by 
the pilot, when he purposely attempted to apply abrupt 
control, was about 70° per second. 


217188—52 2 


/ 


8 


REPORT 1076 — NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR AERONAUTICS 


Boost ratio t.O ( booster off) Boost ratio 2.8 



(b) Indicated airspeed; 250 miles per»hour. 
Figure 6.— Concluded. 


The stick-free dynamic characteristics of the test airplane 
are also indicated by the time histories presented in figure 6. 
For both airspeeds and for both boost conditions, the motions 
of the controls and airplane following release of the stick 
were deadbeat. At an indicated airspeed of 160 miles per 
hour, both with and without boost, the elevator did not 
return to its trim position following release of the stick. 


This condition results from the aforementioned control 
friction and, since the friction exists between the booster 
and the elevator, the use of boost does not affect the center- 
ing tendency. At higher speeds the centering tendency of 
the elevator was much improved because of the larger magni- 
tude of the aerodynamic hinge moments in relation to the 
control friction. (See fig. 6 (b).) 


9 


STABILITY AND CONTROL OF A B~29 AIRPLANE WITH A BOOSTER IN THE ELEVATOR-CONTROL SYSTEM 


Control-force investigation. — The variations of elevator 
force with normal acceleration (in g units) as measured in 
turns are presented in figure 7 for various values of boost 
ratio. Variations are shown for indicated airspeeds of 160, 
200, and 250 miles per hour in figures 7 (a), 7 (b), and 
7 (c), respectively. 

The use of the booster in the B-29 airplane decreased the 
elevator-force gradients in approximately inverse proportion 
to the boost ratio, but otherwise did not significantly affect 
the control characteristics of the test airplane in steady 
turning flight. As indicated in figure 7, the control-force 
gradients of the test airplane increased with increasing air- 
speed. Without boost and at an indicated airspeed of 250 
miles per hour, the force gradient is about 140 pounds per g 
normal acceleration; whereas at 160 miles per hour the force 
gradient is about 90 pounds per g . The pilots conducting 
these tests felt that the control forces encountered without 
boost were tolerable but heavy. The large force gradients 
at high speeds contribute to pilot fatigue when flying in for- 
mation, flying through rough air, or flying under other con- 
ditions where frequent control applications are required. 
The decrease in force gradient with decreasing airspeed, 
however, had the advantage of improving the handling 
qualities of the test airplane during landings over those 



(a) Indicated airspeed; 160 miles per hour. 

Fic.ure 7— E fleet of the booster on the variation of elevator-control force with normal 
acceleration for the B-29 airplane as measured in turns. 


existing for several other large airplanes. Because of this 
decrease with speed, the test airplane with boost off could be 
landed with one hand on the control wheel and without the 
necessity for retrimming when the power is cut prior to ground 
contact although the forces were high under this condition. 

With the booster operating at boost ratio 2.8 the control- 
force gradients measured in turns were reduced to about 30 
pounds per g at 160 miles per hour and to about 50 pounds 
per g at 250 miles per hour. In the opinion of the test 
pilots, force gradients of these magnitudes were much more 
desirable than those encountered without boost. The max- 
imum permissible normal acceleration (fould be obtained at 
high speed without an objectionably large amount of pilot 
effort, but the gradients were still large enough to provide 
the pilot with adequate control feel. The longitudinal con- 
trol characteristics of the airplane during landings were 
considered excellent. With the lower force gradients, the 
pilots found that errors in the approach just prior to ground 
contact were easier to correct so that good “touchdowns 1 ’ 
could be made even with relatively poor approaches. 



(b) Indicated airspeed; 200 miles per hour. 
Fioi re 7.— Continued. 


10 


REPORT 1076 — NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR AERONAUTICS 



(c) Indicated airspeed; 2.50 miles per hour. 

Fioure 7. — Concluded. 

As shown in figure 7 , use of boost ratio 4.6 resulted in force 
gradients of the test airplane of about 30 pounds per g at 
250 miles per hour and about 20 pounds per g at 160 miles 
per hour. The pilots, however, still considered force gradients 
of these magnitudes satisfactory and, although these gra- 
dients were not so desirable as those obtained with boost 
ratio 2.8, they were more desirable than the gradients ob- 
tained without boost from consideration of the handling 
qualities. Possibly this opinion might have been altered if 
the force gradients of the test airplane had not increased 
with speed. This contention is borne out to some extent by 
the test results for boost ratio 8.2; under this condition, the 
force gradient was about 17 pounds per g at 250 miles per 
hour, but the gradients were considered undesirably light 
by the pilots throughout the speed range of the tests. 


The control-force gradients specified as satisfactory in 
present handling-qualities requirements for the airplane class 
which includes the test airplane are given in the following 
form (reference 2): 

1 20 

Maximum force per q - 

n— 1 

4 5 

Minimum force per q -- 

where n is defined as the limit load factor and is included as 
an integral part of the specification in an attempt to com- 
pensate for differences in the strength of airplanes. The 
relationship between the specified force gradients and those 
that were measured for the test airplane is somewhat vague 
in that the limit load factor varies with gross weight. The 
limit load factor of the test airplane is 3 g at the design gross 
weight of 105,000 pounds but is reduced to 2.67 g at 120,000 
pounds (a more normal operating gross weight). With 
either limit load factor, however, the force gradients for the 
test airplane without boost are appreciably above the upper 
specified limit; whereas, with a boost ratio of 2.8, the force 
gradients are entirely within the specified limits. The force 
gradients of the test airplane with a boost ratio of 4.6 w r ere 
near or somewhat below r the lower specified limit. 

The effect of lov r force gradients on the probability of 
exceeding the limit load factor during abrupt evasive ma- 
neuvers was not investigated because an evaluation of this 
effect would require an extremely great amount of fligli t 
experience with airplanes having low force gradients. For 
airplanes with very low' limit load factors, the range of 
control-force gradients dictated by handling-qualities consider- 
ations may tend to endanger the structural integrity of the 
airplane ; for this case, an immediate need is indicated for a 
means of load limitation other than the control-force gra- 
dients encountered in normal flying. 

The effect of the magnitude of the elevator-control force 
gradients on the handling qualities of the test airplane dur- 
ing landings is indicated in figure 8. Time histories of 
three landings are presented. A landing without boost is 
show n in figure 8 (a), a landing with boost ratio 2.8 is shown 
in figure 8 (b), and a landing with boost ratio 4.6 is shown in 
figure 8 (c). 

The time histories indicate that pilot technique in perform- 
ing landings is similar regardless of the magnitude of the 
control forces. In general, control w^as applied during the 
test landings by a series of abrupt applications of pull force 
followed almost immediately by a partial release of the force 
without actually pushing on the stick. The peak pull forces 
which were applied during the landings without boost were 
generally about 80 pounds. This peak value is high in 


STABILITY AND CONTROL OF A B~29 AIRPLANE WITH A BOOSTER IN THE ELEVATOR-CONTROL SYSTEM 


11 



terms of the physical capabilities of a normal pilot when using 
one hand for control application. Because control was 
applied in an almost continuous series of abrupt force 
applications, the magnitude of these peak forces is also 


indicative of appreciable work required on the part of the 
pilot. 

During the landing with the booster operating at boost 
ratio 2.8 (fig. 8 (b)) the peak pull forces used were about 40 


12 


REPORT 1076 — NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR AERONAUTICS 



(b) Boost ratio, 2.8. 
Figuke 8. — Continued. 


pounds. Although the peak force reduction over the condi- 
tion of boost off is appreciable, the force reduction is not as 
great as would be expected from the difference in boost 
ratio. These results indicate that the pilot used larger 
elevator deflections to control the airplane when the forces 
were reduced. For the landing with boost ratio 4.6 the 
peak pull forces were about 20 pounds (fig. 8 (c)) except 
immediately before ground contact where the pilot applied 
rapid corrective control. This characteristic of applying 
rapid corrections just before touchdown was noted for 
several other landings where the booster was used; however 


without boost, such action was rarely taken, apparently 
because the forces involved were large. 

Control-rate investigation. — There are several additional 
results concerned with pilot technique during landings that 
are worth noting. As shown in figure 8, the largest rate of 
elevator motion involved in the abrupt control applications 
during landings was about 40° per second. In spite of these 
rapid con (j-ol movements, however, the time histories show 
that the normal accelerations and pitching velocities were 
small and that abrupt control deflections were applied ovei 
such short time intervals that the flight path of the airplane 


STABILITY ANI) CONTROL OF A B -29 AIRPLANE WITH A BOOSTER IN THE ELEVATOR-CONTROL SYSTEM 


13 



(c) Boost ratio, 4.0. 
Fioure 8.— Concluded. 


was not significantly altered. These observations indicate 
that the rapid control application is merely a feature of pilot 
technique. 

The preceding statements concerning the usual pilot 
control technique used in landings may have an important 
bearing on the maximum control rates that are required in a 
booster system. Since the airplane does not significantly 
respond to control applications applied over a short time 
interval, satisfactory landings could possibly be made with 
smoother control movements involving much lower rates of 
control motion. In order to investigate this possibility, a 


series of boost-on landings were made with the maximum 
control rate of the system restricted to low values. Time 
histories of three landings using restricted control rates in 
the booster system are presented in figure 9. Landings with 
rate restrictions of approximately 20°, 10°, and 7° per second 
are shown in figures 9 (a), 9 (b), and 9 (c), respectively. 

During landings with restricted control rates, the pilot 
invariably called for higher rates than were available just 
before ground contact. This condition is indicated in figure 9 
by the dashed lines representing the maximum available 
control rate. For these conditions, the pilot moved the 


14 


REPORT 1076 — NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR AERONAUTICS 



FioURE 9.— Time histories of landings of the B-29 airplane showing the effects of variation in maximum available rate of control motion supplied by the booster. Boost ratio, 2.8. 


control stick faster than the rate at which the elevator was 
moved by the booster, but these differences in stick and 
elevator rate did not exist over a sufficiently long time 
interval to cause the pilot’s stick to contact the fixed stops 
in the system (1J4° error in position). The lag in the elevator 
motion even for the largest rate restriction was never large 
enough to be detected by the pilot in terms of the airplane 
response. 

Also indicated by the time histories in figure 9 is a pro- 
gressive reduction in the rate which the pilot moved the stick 
as the available elevator rate was reduced, even though the 
stick could be moved at any desired rate within the fixed 
stop limits. This result apparently stems from the force 
feedback of the preloaded springs which connected the 
push-pull rod to the pump control arm. These springs 
deflected whenever rates higher than the maximum available 


were called for by the pilot. Although this force feedback 
was not objectionable to the pilots, there is a possibility of 
making this force feedback small (weak springs) and elimi- 
nating the fixed stops in the system. With such modifica- 
tions the pilot could move the stick without limit at any rate 
though the system rate was restricted. The pilot would 
then have no indication of a restricted rate of control motion 
unless the restriction could be detected in the response of 
the airplane. 

With the system as used for the present tests, the pilots 
felt that the handling qualities of the airplane were satis- 
factory even with the control rate restricted to the lowest 
value of 7° per second. As mentioned previously, some 
detection of the rate restriction was possible because of the 
forces applied by the preloaded springs. Apparently no 
real sense of lack of control was encountered, however, 


STABILITY AND CONTROL OF A B-29 AIRPLANE WITH A BOOSTER IN THE ELEVATOR-CONTROL SYSTEM 


15 



(b) Maximum available rate, 10° per second. 
Figure 9.— Continued. 


possibly because the pilot could continue to move the stick 
against the spring force. 

During several landings with restricted control rates the 
pilot intentionally started the landing flare well off the 
ground and had to correct for this error. Other landings 
were made in which the flare was delayed beyond the point 
where it would normally have been initiated. Even with the 
lowest available control rates used in these tests, no com- 
plications were involved in correcting for these conditions. 

Although results are presented herein only for landings, 
which were felt to be the most important maneuver from the 
standpoint of rate of elevator motion, the handling charac- 
teristics of the test airplane with restricted control rates 
were qualitatively investigated for other flight conditions. 


No unsatisfactory characteristics were evident during normal 
take-off where the control stick is held forward until take-off 
speed is approached and then gradually pulled back to lift 
the nose wheel. Another take-off* technique was also 
investigated as being more critical than the normal pro- 
cedure. For this test, the stick was held full back from the 
beginning of the take-off run. Under these conditions, the 
airplane has an unstable pitching tendency when the nose 
wheel rises off the ground, but even with the lowest available 
rate of elevator motion, the pilot experienced no difficulty 
in controlling this pitching tendency. During the tests, the 
pilots could easily contact the fixed stops (I/2 0 error in stick 
position) during taxying and also in flight by purposely 
moving the stick in an abrupt manner. In normal maneuvers, 


16 


REPORT 1076 — NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR AERONAUTICS 



(c) Maximum available rate, 7° per second. 
Figure 9.— Concluded. 


other than landings, however, the elevator rates used 
did not exceed a value corresponding to the greatest rate 
restriction of 7° per second. 

The results of this investigation indicate that airplanes 
may have satisfactory handling qualities with a booster 
having much lower control rates available than those nor- 
mally used by pilots. These results, however, are not 
intended to provide a quantitative indication of minimum 
satisfactory control rates since they apply strictly to the test 
airplane in the configurations used in the tests. The static 
stability characteristics of the test airplane shown in figure 
5 indicate that at the test center-of-gravity position only 
moderate variations of elevator deflection with normal-force 


coefficient were required. Possibly with a more forward 
center-of-gravity position somewhat larger control rates 
would be necessary in order to provide satisfactory control 
characteristics. In addition, past handling-qualities experi- 
ence on other airplane types indicates a possibility that 
higher rates of control motion would be required on smaller 
airplanes. 

CONCLUSIONS 

Measurements of the longitudinal stability and control 
characteristics of a Boeing B-29 airplane have been made 
with a control-surface booster incorporated in the elevator- 
control system. Effects of variations in the magnitude of 
the pilot’s control force were determined as well as effects of 


STABILITY AND CONTROL OF A B~29 AIRPLANE WITH A BOOSTER IN THE ELEVATOR-CONTROL SYSTEM 


17 


variations in the maximum rate of control motion supplied 
by the booster system. The following conclusions were 
drawn: 

1. The longitudinal stability and control characteristics 
of the B-29 airplane were not significantly altered through 
use of the booster except for a reduction in the magnitude of 
the control-force gradients. 

2. The elevator control-force variations with normal 
acceleration for the B-29 airplane without boost were about 
140 pounds per g at an indicated airspeed of 250 miles per 
hour and about 90 pounds per g at 160 miles per hour. The 
pilots conducting these tests felt that the control forces 
without boost were tolerable but heavy. 

3. Use of the booster to adjust the control-force gradients 
to about 50 pounds per g at 250 miles per hour and about 30 
pounds per g at 160 miles per hour appreciably improved the 
handling qualities of the test airplane. 

4. Further reduction in control-force gradients through 
use of the booster to about 30 pounds per g at 250 miles per 
hour and about 20 pounds per g at 160 miles per hour still 
provided satisfactory control forces in terms of pilots’ 
opinions of their ability to control the airplane precisely in 
normal flight maneuvers. From consideration of the han- 
dling qualities these force gradients were more satisfactory 
than those encountered without boost but were not so 
desirable as the range stated in conclusion 2. The effect 
of these lower force gradients or the probability of exceeding 
the limit load factor could not be investigated. 

5. The highest rate of elevator-control motion used by the 
pilots during landings of the test airplane was about 40° 
per second. The highest rate of control motion obtained 
when the pilot purposely moved the control rapidly in an 
abrupt pull-up was about 70° per second. 

6. During the part of the landings where high control 
rates were used, large control deflections were held for such 
short time intervals that the flight path of the airplane v r as 
not significantly altered. 

7. During boost-on landings with the available rate of 
control motion restricted to values as low as 7° per second, 
no unsatisfactory control characteristics were encountered. 
The pilots did not note any undesirable restrictions on their 
ability to move the control stick rapidly regardless of the 
rate of control motion available possibly because the stick 
could be moved at any rate desired (against light preloaded 
springs) until an error of 1 K° was attained between the stick 


and the control surface. This large a value of error was not 
encountered during these landings. 

8. Qualitative investigation of other flight conditions such 
as take-offs and normal flying indicated that no unsatisfac- 
tory control characteristics resulted from restricting the rate 
of control motion to 7° per second. 


Langley Aeronautical Laboratory, 

National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, 
Langley Field, Va., April 12 , 1950. 

REFERENCES 

1. Mathews, Charles W., and Kleckner, Harold F.: Theoretical 

Analysis and Bench Tests of a Control-Surface Booster Employing 
a Variable Displacement Hydraulic Pump. NACA RM L6H30, 
1 945. 

2. Anon.: Flying Qualities of Piloted Airplanes. U. S. Air Force 

Specification No. 1815-B, June 1, 1948. 

TABLE I 

GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS OF B-29 AIRPLANE 


General: 

Manufacturer 

Type 

Engines: 

Manufacturer 

Type 

Normal rating 

Propellers: 

Manufacturer 

Hub No 

Blade No 

Wing: 

Area (including ailerons), sq ft__ 

Area (flaps extended), sq ft 

Aspect ratio 

Taper ratio 

Aileron area (total), sq ft 

Flap area, sq ft 

Horizontal tail: 

Area, sq ft 

Aspect ratio 

Taper ratio - - 

Elevator area, sq ft 

Vertical tail: 

Fin area (including dorsal), sq ft 
Rudder area, sq ft __ - __ 


Boeing Aircraft Corp. 
TB-29-56-BYV 


Wright Aeronautical Corp. 

R3350-23A 

2,000 lip at 2,400 rpm 

Hamilton Standard 

24-F60-35 

6521A-0 

1, 739 

2, 071 

11.5 

0. 43 

129 

332 

333 

5 . 55 

0.42 

115 

132 

65. 5 


U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1953 



































































