FEASIBILITY 
STUDY 
OF THE 

BOEING 

SMALL 

RESEARCH 

MODULE 


NASA-Ames Research Center 
Advanced Space Projects Offici 

Boeing Aerospace Company 
Space Systems Division 


f 

t ********************* 

% ’& KS '///////.'.Vi 

P **************** 


r **** , 

. ****** . 
_ ******* . 
f ********* 
********** 




a— 



/J77^3 


n 


2 


a ofe 


FINAL REPORT 

FEASIBILITY STUDY OF THE BOEING SMALL RESEARCH 
MODULE (BSRM) CONCEPT 

NAS 2-8526 


March 1975 


Prepared for: 

National Aeronautics & Space Administration 
NASA-Ames Research Center 
Moffett Field, California 
B. C. Padrick, Project Manager 


A. S. Hill Study Manager 

T. K. Freeman Program Manager 


Space Systems Division 
The Boeing Aerospace Company 
A Division of The Boeing Company 
Kent Space Center 
P. 0. Box 3999 
Seattle, Washington 98124 




THE 


COMPANY 


FOREWORD 


This document is one of a series of four (4), describing the design, manu- 
facture, and management of the Boeing Small Research Module (BSRM). The 
documents constitute the final report of Contract NAS2-8526, "Feasibility 
Study of a Small Research Module Concept," performed for the Advanced Space 
Projects Office of NASA-Ames Research Center. 

The objective of the study was to define a low cost standardized spacecraft 
combining an existing spacecraft design with USAF Space Test Program (STP) 
management control and NASA aircraft program (ASSESS) instrument integration 
techniques. The results of the study, presented in this set of documents, 
includes a prel iminary spacecraft design; plans for the management, develop- 
ment, manufacture, test and operation of the spacecraft; and rough order of 
magnitude (ROM) costs. 


The four documents included in this final report are: 


D180-18450-1 

D180-18450-2 

D180-18450-3 

D180-18450-4 


Executive Summary 
BSRM Design Document 
BSRM Program Definition C)EL~ 
BSRM Program Costs 


D180-18450-3 


i 



COMPANY 


thi £9MF£JAf£Z 


CONTENTS 


.0 

Introduction and Scope 

101 

0 

Mission Integration Plan 

201 

2.1 

Program Organization and Control 

201 

2.2 

Payload Integration 

203 

2.3 

Booster Integration 

203 

2.4 

Launch Site Integration 

203 

0 

Quality Assurance Plan 

301 

3.1 

Rel iabil ity/Maintainabil ity 

301 

3.2 

Parts Control and Standardization 

311 

3.3 

Supplier Selection and Controls 

313 

3.4 

System Safety Plan 

315 

3.5 

Quality Control Plan 

322 

0 

System Test Plan 

401 

4.1 

Test Categories 

401 

4.2 

Boeing Mobile Test Lab 

403 

4.3 

Category I Tests 

405 

4.4 

Category II Tests 

413 

0 

EMC Control Plan 

501 

5.1 

References 

501 

5.2 

EMC Organization and Tasks 

502 

5.3 

EMC Board 

503 

5.4 

EMI Tests 

504 

5.5 

EMC Tests 

504 

5.6 

Design Requirements 

504 

5.7 

Electrical Power 

507 

5.8 

Grounding and Bonding 

511 

5.9 

Lightning Protection 

513 

5.10 

Static Electricity 

513 

5.11 

Personnel Hazard 

513 

5.12 

Hazard to EEC's 

514 

5.13 

External Environment 

514 

5.14 

Supression Diodes 

514 

5.15 

1 Electrical Connectors 

514 

0 

Contamination Control Plan 

601 

6.1 

BSRM Contamination Control 

602 

6.2 

Clean Facilities 

602 

6.3 

Contamination Control Techniques 

603 

6.4 

Compl iance Management 

606 

6.5 

Future Contamination Control 

608 

6.6 

BSRM Cleanliness Procedures 

609 


1 

D180-18450-3 



the 


COMPANY 


7.0 Operational Support Plan 701 

7.1 AGE Plan 701 

7.2 Field Processing Plan 707 

7.3 System Operation 713 

t 

8.0 Manufacturing Plan 801 

8.1 Approach 801 

8.2 Fabrication Plan 801 

8.3 Tooling 802 

' 8.4 Manufacturing Organization 803 

9.0 Configuration Management Plan 901 

9.1 Organization 901 

9.2 Change Control 901 

9.3 Baseline Control 907 

9.4 Engineering Drawings 908 

9.5 Specifications 909 

9.6 Subcontractor/Vendor Control 910 

10.0 Data Management Plan 1001 

10.1 Organization and Responsibilities 1001 

10.2 Data Program 1004 

11.0 Subcontract Plan 1101 

11.1 Materiel Organization Responsibilities 1101 

11.2 Procurement Management 1102 

11.3 Other Procurement Functions 1110 

11.4 Customer Reporting 1110 

1 2 . 0 BSRM Program Schedules 1201 


i i 

- D180-18450-3 



THE 


COMPANY 




LIST OF FIGURES 


Figure 

Title 

Page 

2.1-1 

Program Organization 

202 

2.2-1 

Payload Integration 

204 

2.3-1 

Booster Integration 

205 

4.2-1 

Boeing MTL Block Diagram 

404 

4.3-1 

Category I Testing 

409' 

4.4-1- 

Category II Testing. 

414 

4.4-2 

Category II Testing (Cont'd) 

415 

4.4-3 

Category II Testing (Cont'd) 

416 

4.4-4 

Thermal Vacuum Testing 

423 

5.7-1 

Transient Voltage Limits 

512 

5.7-2 

Power Line Ripple 

512 

5.7-3 

Power Line Rotationally Induced 



Voltage Drift 

512 

6.2-1 

Boeing Clean Room Facilities 

603 

6.3-1 

Contamination Control Concept 

604 

7.1-1 

BSRM Electrical AGE 

702 

7.1-2 

Boeing Mobile Test Lab 

704 

7.2-1 

NASA Building 836 Operations 

708 

7.2-2 

Scout Launch Complex Operations 

710 

7.2-3 

Field Processing Schedule 

711 

9.2-1 

Class I Change Processing 

903 

9.2-2 

Class II Change Processing 

904 

10.0-1 

Program Documentation Matrix 

1002 

10.1-1 

BSRM Data Management 

1003 

12.0-1 

BSRM Master Schedule 

1202 

12.0-2 

BSRM Test Schedule 

1203 



D180-18450-3 


o 



THE 


COMPANY 


LIST OF TABLES 


Table 

Title 

Page 

4.1-1 

Category I & II Test Matrix 

402 

5.6-1 

Power & Signal Groups 

508, 509 

5.6-2 

Shielding Design Constraints 

510 

6.6-1 

Acceptable Materials 

610 

6.6-2 

Selection of Solvents 

611 




iv 

D180-18450-3 



THE 


COMPANY 


1.0 INTRODUCTION AND SCOPE 


This document contains the schedule and preliminary plans for the BSRM Program 
Definition in accordance with Statement of Work Task 6.4 in NAS2-8526 study con- 
tract. The plans describe various aspects of a BSRM Program consistent with the 
low cost approach utilized by Boeing on many successful USAF satellite programs. 
Specifically, the plans were compiled from approved plans from the Burner II/IIA, 
SESP P70-1, STP P72-1, and S3 programs. 

In preparing this document, the retention of low cost program features was para- 
mount. No attempt was made to conform to NASA procedures, specifications, or 
methodologies not compatible with existing practices used by Boeing on USAF pro- 
grams. By using existing plans, procedures, design and fabrication techniques, 
off-the-shelf equipment items, released design analyses, and other existing doc- 
umentation, the BSRM Program can be implemented with a minimum of coordination 
resulting in a quick response schedule and low cost. The documentation which 
can be used directly or with minor revision for BSRM includes the following: 

o Numerous approved plans contained in this document. 

o Applicable CDRL submittals such as range safety documentation, 
qualification data, design criteria, etc. 

o Applicable design analyses not affected by the experiment mix such 
as communication link analyses, EED analysis, and some subsystem 
analyses. 

o Numerous procedures for operation of, the: Test Data Van, subsystem 
demonstration tests, TM calibration, magnetic survey, EMC/EMI 
acceptance, etc. 

o Software programs for attitude control and attitude determination. 

o Complete procurement specifications for all off-the-shelf hardware. 

o Complete data packages from suppliers for qualification verifica- 
tion, reliability, and performance for all off-the-shelf hardware. 

The BSRM schedules included herein are based on implementing the program described 
by these plans. The schedules are consistent with previous Boeing experience on 
USAF low cost spacecraft programs similar in size and scope to the BSRM. 

It is contractor's intent that the plans contained in this document would be 
reviewed, coordinated, and approved prior to initiation of a BSRM hardware con- 
tract. These plans would thus form the basis for the conduct of the BSRM mis- 
sion defining the groundrules for various aspects of the program. In this man- 
ner, major programmatic features of the spacecraft development, test and opera- 
tion would be defined at go-ahead insuring a high confidence in proposed costs, 
schedules, and reliability. 


101 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2^46 OR4G. 4/ 7 1 



THE 


COMPANY 


2.0 MISSION INTEGRATION PLAN 


The mission integration task utilizes existing concepts and methodologies devel- 
oped by Boeing through extensive experience on numerous Burner 1 1 / 1 1 A and STP 
programs. Booster integration for BSRM will be nearly identical to previous 
tasks successfully completed for Thor and Atlas missions. Experiment integra- 
tion is similar to the S3 program; the number of experiments, agencies, and 
Principal Investigators are comparable. Existing plans and documentation will 
be refined for adaptation to the BSRM program to minimize integration costs. 

The heart of the mission integration task is the System Master Integrated Sched- 
ule. This schedule will be prepared at the beginning of the BSRM program to 
identify major program milestones for each participant including experimenters. 
The type of milestones to be tracked include the following: 

o Major program events such as design reviews, deliveries, test comple- 
tion, drawing releases, launches, etc. 

o Spacecraft program design, fabrication and test schedules, CDRL sub- 
mittals, experiment and booster ICD approvals, delivery, launch and 
post flight activities. 

o Booster contractor interface functions, interrelated CDRL submittals 
and ICD approval . 

o Experimenter interface functions, ICD approvals, payload deliveries, 
experiment integration tests, launch and post-launch support. 

o Government participation including GFE data^requirements, design 
approvals, ICD and CDRL approvals, and acceptance dates. 

The Master Schedule will also show major meetings and responsibilities. This 
schedule will be developed to the detail used on previous USAF programs and 
will be updated monthly. 

2.1 PROGRAM ORGANIZATION AND CONTROL 


Boeing will interface with all participating organizations as required to plan 
and monitor the overall BSRM program and advise NASA of program status and 
unresolved problems. The program organizational structure and general areas of 
responsibilities are shown in Figure 2.1-1. 

2.1.1 MANAGEMENT 


This Mission Integration Plan is the primary management tool to control the 
mission integration task. The plan will be updated by Boeing using techniques 
and background developed for similar programs to provide good management visi- 
bility of all program tasks, responsibilities and interfaces for BSRM. 


201 

D180-18450-3 



THE 


COMPANY 


2.1.2 PROGRAM MEETINGS 


Boeing will provide contract and program status at monthly Technical Management 
and Program Status (TM/PS) Reviews. The contractor will participate in other 
program reviews and meetings as required. The results of these meetings and 
action item status will be reported at the TM/PS reviews. 


NASA 


o PROGRAM MGMT 



o System Specification 
o Program Definition 
o Program Status 
o Interfaces/ ICD's 
o Orbital Reqmts 
; Document 

0 Support Documentation 


p Design Reqmts 
o Interfaces 
o Design & Test 
6 Launch Support 
(j> Experiment 
! Installation 

j 

j 


PRINCIPAL 

INVESTIGATOR 

AGENCIES 


_ BOOSTER 
CONTRACTOR 

o Program Support 
o Planning, Trajectories 
o Field Operations 
o Launch Control 
o Interfaces 


LAUNCH 

SITE 




GOOD 

SPAC 

CENT 

ARD 

E 

ER 


o Orbital 
Operations 
o Data 
Acquisition 
o Tracking 


o Experiment Reqmts 
d Hardware 
o Associated AGE 
o Procedures 
o Program Support 


o Range Support 
o Range Safety 
o Joint Operating Plan 
o Launch Site Integration 


FIGURE 2.1-1: PROGRAM ORGANIZATION 


2.1.3 INTERFACE CONTROL 


The contractor will meet with the Experiment Contractors and Agencies immedi- 
ately after contract go-ahead to refine the data required for Interface Control 
Documents. Any "TBD" items will be assigned dates and responsibilities for 
resolution. Contractor will prepare a single ICD encompassing all experiments . 
with separate Appendices to detail the peculiar requirements of the different 
experiments. The basic ICD will be approved by the contractor, all experiment 
agencies/contractors and NASA. The Appendices will be approved by the contrac- 
tor, the affected experiment agency/contractor and NASA. Drawings and documents 

202 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2145 ORIG. 4/7 1 










THE 


• COMPANY 


referenced in the ICDs will be specified by exact date and revision. Proposed 
changes to the ICDs will be submitted by the originator to NASA and affected 
agencies/contractors for review. Approved changes will be incorporated as 
revisions to the affected ICD by the contractor after securing approval signa- 
tures. Class I changes will, in addition, be processed in accordance with the 
contractor's Configuration Management and Change Control plans. 

2.2 PAYLOAD INTEGRATION 


The tasks and interfaces required for integration of the experiments are shown 
in Figure 2.2-1. 

The contractor will coordinate, prepare and maintain the interface, planning 
and procedural documentation, and accomplish the testing required to verify 
that the experiments are ready to support the mission objective. Early activ- 
ity will be directed to definition of experiment/satellite interfaces, payload 
design requirements and interfaces and a baseline design. Further activity 
will include development, integration and test of the total system and defini- 
tion of requirements, plans and procedures to support the operational mission. 
The contractor will have responsibility for coordination, integration and docu- 
mentation of experiment facility, support and service requirements for the 
launch sites. 

2.3 BOOSTER INTEGRATION 

The mutual support and division of responsibilities between Boeing and the 
booster contractor in assuring compatibility between the booster and the space- 
craft are shown in Figure 2.3-1. 

Boost phase trajectories will be developed by the booster contractor using a 
Boeing supplied weight model. Using Boeing mass-stiffness data the booster 
contractor will also perform vehicle stability and control, loads and aerody- 
namic heating analyses to verify booster compatibility with the BSRM trajec- 
tory. Boeing will perform analyses of satellite separation, and of satellite 
capability to withstand the boost environment. These analyses will be supple- 
mented by testing including model survey and static loads and acoustic/vibra- 
tion tests. These analyses and tests will verify mission capability and 
booster interfaces. Boeing will provide interface data as required and the 
booster contractor will provide Boeing with open and closed loop and design 
trajectories and dispersions and other data required to perform analyses. 

The interfaces will be verified by a combined booster/satellite test at the 
launch site. 

2.4 LAUNCH SITE INTEGRATION 


Launch site integration tasks will include defining interfaces and facility 
requirements. Boeing installed AGE, interface/installation drawings, process- 
ing space requirements, schedules and umbilical requirements will be prepared 
by Boeing with experimentor support. These will be coordinated by Boeing who 
will provide launch site data and interfaces. The booster contractor will 

203 

D180-18450-3 


rin Mr\nr\ ii.a« n a i ft 


At 1 I 


THC 


COMPANY 



204 

D180-18450-3 


MOO 2 140 ORIC. 4/7 1 


FIGURE 2.2-1: PAYLOAD INTEGRATION 




















COMPANY 






O 


O 

CQ 


□ 


ad 

o 

(— 

<_> 

c 

ad 


O 

o 


co 

o 

o 

CO 


n 

LJ 


205 

D180-18450-3 


H 


000 2 140 ORIS. 4/7 1 


FIGURE 2.3-1: BOOSTER INTEGRATION 












TN* 


COMPANY 


establish space allocations and installation schedules and perform configura- 
tion control. 

Boeing will prepare a Field Processing Plan including experimentor inputs. 
This will be used to prepare a Joint Operating Plan for range planning, sup- 
port and scheduling. Launch site coordination of procedures, countdown and 
schedules will be the responsibility of the booster contractor with support 
from Boeing and the experimentors. 



206 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2 149 ORlG, 4/7 



THt 


COMPANY 


3.0 QUALITY ASSURANCE PROGRAM 

3.1 RELIABILITY/MAINTAINABILITY PLAN 

This Reliability/Maintainability Plan defines Boeing's reliability and main- 
tainability program for the BSRM. The plan provides for an integrated relia- 
bility program during design, manufacture, and test to achieve the designed- 
in reliability and maintainability potential ensuring that the delivered sat- 
ellites satisfy R/M requirements. 

3.1.1 SCOPE 

This plan identifies those program elements including establishing allocated 
reliability requirements, types of analyses, and controls necessary to ensure 
that the BSRM satellites are capable of satisfying or exceeding reliability 
and maintainability requirements. 

This plan applies to all BSRM equipment except for payload GFE and other GFE. 
The remove and replace time requirement for all modules and black boxes does, 
however, apply to all GFE payloads. 

The application of these program elements to each satellite subsystem of com- 
ponent is determined by the use, complexity, and history of the equipment. 
Discrimination is made between flight-proven equipment and new design. Thus, 
where flight-proven equipment is selected, reliability evaluation and verifi- 
cation depend upon past performance, including qualification test data, prob- 
lem identification and resolution, design improvements, and manufacturing/ 
quality controls. New or modified design is subject to more extensive eval- 
uation. 

This plan is based on the existing S3 Reliability/Maintainability Program 
Plan. The program elements will be applied to all satellite subcontractors, 
and a subcontractor reliability program commitment will be required by 
inclusion Of the basic R/M requirements in the procurement specification. 
However, existing S3 data and/or analyses will not be duplicated for BSRM if 
the R/M intent and requirements are satisfied. 

3.1.2 OBJECTIVES 

The objective of the reliability and maintainability program is to ensure a 
successful program and deliver BSRM satellites which meet or exceed the 
requirements of the statement of work. This objective will be achieved by: 

a. Including the reliability and maintainability parameters in all design 
considerations (such as trade studies, component selection) on a timely 
basis. 

b. Reviewing and approving the design prior to release to ensure compliance 
with requirements. 


301 . 

D180-18450-3 


6000 2 146 ORIC. 4/7 1 


THE 


COMPANY 


c. Demonstrating by analysis that the BSRM satellites satisfy reliability 
requirements. 

d. Providing management visibility of current Reliability/Maintainability 
Program status to facilitate direction and control. 

e. Providing for active coordination with related activities affecting 
the reliability and maintainability of the system during its life 
cycle, including systems analysis, human engineering, and environment 
control . 

3.1.3 PROGRAM MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL 

It is the policy of Boeing Aerospace Company to conduct a planned and organ- 
ized approach to reliability and maintainabil ity on each product program. , 
Company Policy No. 4E1, "Product Safety, Reliability and Maintainability," 
which requires compliance by all company organizations, defines requirements 
for the programs to be established by division managers and for developing 
the technology necessary for sustaining the capability to meet the program 
objectives. 


3. 1.3.1 Program Management . The Rel iabil ity/Safety and Configuration Control 
organization? reporting to the program manager, is responsible for implementa- 
tion of the R/M Plan and has the authority to establish requirements and pro- 
cedures. This organization, with staff support by the Aerospace Group organi- 
zation, will: 

a. Implement the reliability/maintainability program and provide and main- 
tain procedures as required. 

b. Apportion reliability requirements. 

c. Update and monitor rel iabil ity requirements to reflect design changes. 

d. Perform reliability/maintainability analyses. 

e. Coordinate the reliability/maintainability program implementation with 
affected organizations. 

f. Review and approve equipment qual ification data package for reliability 
compl iance. 

g. Evaluate the design and/or test plans and procedures to identify reli- 
ability problem areas; participate in design reviews and in design 
change reviews as a prerequisite to reliability approval. 


302 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2148 ORtG. 4/7 1 


THE 


COMFAMY 


h. Approve all specifications and drawings (.including changes) to indicate 
compliance with reliability and maintainability requirements. 

i. Evaluate test results for reliability achievement. 

j. Evaluate supplier reliability analyses and monitor supplier reliability/ 
maintainabil ity task accompl ishments. 

k. Provide customer and contractor management with reliability/maintainabil- 
ity status reports. 

l. Review "Suspect Material Deficiency Reports" supplied by the customer 
and determine action required. 

m. Prepare R/M data reporting and failure summary reports. 

n. Prepare "Notification of Defective or Inadequate Parts/Specifications." 

The BSRM Reliability/Safety and Configuration Control organization is a focal 
point for all reliability/maintainability activities, with direct access to 
all organizations to ensure compliance with program requirements. The task 
descriptions detail the relationships between this group and other engineer- 
ing organizations. 

3. 1.3.2 Control and Coordination . The R/M Plan and the procedures for applica 
tion are approved by the program manager, providing for management direction 
and control of the program. The Rel iabil ity/Safety and Configuration Control 
organization is responsible for control of the R/M program and coordinates and 
monitors the reliability and maintainability activities of all other organiza- 
tions, to assure proper implementation of the plan. 

A primary management control in assuring a successful program is early identi- 
fication of technical problem areas. During the program, satellite equipment 
anomalies and failures will be reported, analyzed, and corrected, as discussed 
further below. 

Specific areas of coordination, with closely related program elements, include: 

a. System Safety . System Safety and Reliability personnel use the same data 
for review of failure modes that generate hazards and cooperate in failure 
reporting where potential safety problems are indicated. 

b. Quality Control . Reliability personnel will use the existing S3 procedures 
and coordination channels for early identification of failures and problems 
during manufacturing, test and field operation. 

c. Logistics . Reliability personnel will provide equipment failure data as 
requested to assist in the selection of long lead items for potential 
equipment repair. The methods of packaging, shipping, field handling, 
and storage will be reviewed to ensure that operational reliability will 
not be degraded. 

303 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2145 ORIG. 4/7 1 


TMt 


COMPANY 


d. Staff Support. The Aerospace Group Product Support Engineering organiza- 
tion will provide staff support, specialist services and data as required 
to support the BSRM program. 

3.1.4 PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS 

Reliability and related design activities will be accomplished as an integral 
part of the BSRM satellite design process. The BSRM satellites shall be 
designed to satisfy the following reliability requirements: 

a. The satellites shall provide the necessary support functions to all pay- 
loads for the mission period of 180 days with a reliability of 0.80 or 
greater. 

b. The design operating lifetime of each satellite shall be taken to mean 
not less than 180 days of orbital flight. 

c. Each subsatellite with its associated equipment shall be designed so that 
the booster interface function shall have a reliability (estimate) of 
0.9990 or greater. Interface elements shall be designed to adhere to the 
"no single point failure" criteria. 

d. All satellite system designs shall, as a design goal, avoid single point 
failure modes within weight, power, and other subsystem constraints. 

3.1.5 RELIABILITY MODEL 

The system reliability models that are mathematically and functionally repre- 
sentative of the mission will be expanded and updated. These models are the 
bases for all quantitative reliability analyses conducted to show compliance 
with the requirements. Constituents of these models are mission/phase operat- 
ing profiles (such as duty cycles) for each equipment item; mission/phase 
environmental profiles for each equipment item; and functional relationships 
between equipment and subsystems. The detail of the models will expand as 
the satellite design develops, and the current models will be contained in the 
R/M allocation, assessment and analysis reports. All GFE payload functions 
are excluded from the model. 

All failure rates, MTBF's, probabilities, and reliabilities used in the reli- 
ability models are those to be associated with the orbital operating environ- 
ment. Existing S3 data will be used extensively. 

Generally all electronic equipment (parts and nonredundant components) are 
assumed to have exponential lifelength distributions. Consequently, the time 
of operation of the item and its operating failure rate determine the relia- 
bility. 

It is further assumed that certain of the failure mechanisms contributing to 
the unreliability of an item occur at different rates during "off" periods. 
Thus, an "off" failure rate will be utilized with the appropriate duty cycle 
when calculating the mission reliability. 

304 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2145 ORIG. 4/7 1 



THE 


COMPANY 


The environmental effects associated with launch and satellite injection will 
be accounted for by utilizing an environmental adjustment factor based on pre- 
vious experience. 

Electronic equipment design will be based not only on the selection of high 
reliability components but also on the application of conservative stress 
levels. When applicable, the ratio of these stress levels to rated strength 
shall be used, together with other factors mentioned above (environmental, 
duty cycle, non-operating) for determining part failure rates used in the 
equipment reliability prediction analysis. Boeing Aerospace Company Design 
Manuals contain stress ratio/failure rate data for basic electronics parts 
and additional data are available from the Staff. 

Some equipment operates in cycles (such as squibs, relays, and switches). 

This equipment will be described either by binomial lifelength distributions 
or by exponential distributions in which the failure rate is expressed in 
failures per cycle and the time parameter is replaced by cycles per mission. 

Another basic distribution used as a basis for determining component/ part 
reliability is the normal distribution. An example is a battery cell whose 
life, in terms of charge/discharge cycles (for given temperature and depth 
of discharge), is expressed as a normal distribution. In some cases both a 
cyclic probability of failure (success) and some long-term "random" failure 
rate (exponential distribution) are ascribed to a device. This latter con- 
sideration is made where the cycling rate is relatively low and where perti- 
nent failure mechanisms can occur in the prolonged periods between cycles. 

Once appropriate lifelength distributions have been determined for the satel- 
lite subsystem components, logic equations can be derived relating individual 
success/failure to subsystem success. These equations will account for all 
subsystem redundancies whether operating, stand-by or switched. 

3.1.6 RELIABILITY ANALYSES 


This section describes the various reliability analyses that will be performed 
in support of the BSRM satellite design and demonstration. 

Allocation - The mission numerical reliability requirement of 0.80 will provide 
the basis for allocations down to the subsystem and component 1 evel . The allo- 
cations will be made only to the hardware level necessary to control the design 
and assure meeting the overall requirement. The initial allocation considered 
the complexity of the equipment, reliability data of identical or similar equip- 
ment, environmental conditions, redundancy and mission profile. These alloca- 
tions serve as the basis for supplier specification requirements. Existing S3 
allocations will be retained where appropriate. 

Prediction - A predicted reliability will be calculated for each satellite, 
less payloads, using the reliability models developed. This prediction is the 
reliability of the satellite to support the payloads for a period of 180 days 
after satellite separation from the host vehicle. This considers operational 
sequence, uses historical success/failure data adjusted for environmental 

305 

D180-18450-3 


6000 2 149 ORIG. 4/7 1 



tm* 


COMPANY 


conditions and duty cycles. Reliability block diagrams and corresponding math- 
ematical expressions will be modified, extended to lower levels and updated as 
the design is developed. Failure rates will be derived from sources most appro- 
priate for the items involved. The data used, with the source identified, will 
be shown in the R/M allocation, assessment, and analysis reports. 

These predictions, compared with the allocated reliabilities, provide the basis 
for review and appropriate corrective action, and are used to show compliance 
with overall mission reliability requirements. The predictions will be pre- 
sented at the CIDR and will be documented in the R/M allocation, assessment, 
and analysis report, which will be updated as required to reflect further 
design definition and possible design changes. 

Failure Mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA) - A satellite FMEA will be performed 
to analyze potential failure modes of the component functional connection to 
identify potential improvements which could reduce or eliminate adverse effects 
on mission success. The FMEA will be performed at the component functional 
input-output level and will use existing S3 analyses extensively. 

Reliability/Design Trades - Reliability trade studies will be conducted if it 
becomes evident that the design may not meet the reliability requirements. 
Reliability personnel will also assist Engineering in evaluating alternate con- 
figurations and equipment functions to ensure that reliability requirements are 
achieved and to uncover areas for possible reliability improvement. Environmen- 
tal conditions, time of operation, functional performance limits, safety margins, 
and redundancy are candidate factors to be considered in the trades. 

3.1.7 RELIABILITY CRITICAL ITEMS 


The BSRM satellite will be typically a "single thread" design because of weight 
constraints. Therefore, the satellite components are classified as reliability 
critical. Any special requirements and precautions to assure no degradation of 
reliability shall be identified in the applicable engineering drawings, test 
plans and procedures and thereby will be monitored by Quality Control and Test 
personnel . 

3.1.8 RELIABILITY TESTING 

Tests performed solely for the purpose of obtaining reliability data will not 
be required. However, the Reliability organization will closely monitor all 
test requirements, procedures and results to assure the adequacy of the test 
and that causes of failures are identified and corrective action is implemented 
to preclude recurrence. The procedure for failure reporting and analysis is 
described in paragraph 3.1.11 of this plan. 

3.1.9 MAINTAINABILITY 


Maintainability design criteria will be included in the contract item specifica- 
tions. In brief, these criteria cover provisions for: accessibility and clear- 
ances; interchangeability; limiting special tools and support equipment; no 

306 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2 t 45 ORIG. 4/7 1 



THE 


COMPANY 


scheduled maintenance as a goal, ease of fault detection and correction; elimin- 
ation of possibility of incorrect connection, assembly, or installation. 

The satellite design goal will be such that all modules, "black boxes," and GFE 
payloads are readily accessible and may be removed and replaced within 24 hours. 

The BSRM maintenance concept is that no maintenance or repair shall be performed 
on the satellites after installation on the launch vehicle. Any repaired com- 
ponents to be reinstalled in the satellite prior to delivery are to be in the 
"as new" condition. 

The designer is responsible for the inclusion of applicable requirements in the 
specifications and for designing the system. The maintainability specialist 
will: review the design for application of the criteria and compliance with the 

requirements; guide the designer to achieve compliance; assist in the solution 
of maintainability problems. 

Estimates for times to replace components and payloads have been developed for 
S3. As the design of each BSRM satellite progresses to the point where packag- 
ing and installation method are firm, these estimates will be reviewed. Any 
item exceeding the 24-hour criteria will be reported. Items showing significant 
differences from the estimates will also be brought to the attention of Engineer- 
ing. 


3.1.10 DESIGN REVIEWS 


Design Reviews - Reliability and maintainability specialists will participate 
in the CIDR and other in-house design reviews. Results of analyses, studies, 
and reliability/maintainability program activities appropriate to the design 
will be presented and evaluated as a part of the review. 

Continuous Design Reviews - Informal reviews between equipment designers and 
rel iabil ity/maintainabil ity personnel will be held during design development 
to assure specification compliance and assist in the design decisions. 

Monthly Reviews - The R/M Program Status Report and the R/M Failure Reporting 
and Feedback Failure Summary Report will be summarized and presented as a part 
of the Monthly Reviews. The reports will be included in the minutes of these 
meetings. 

Qualification Data Review - Reliability personnel will review and approve the 
summarized qualification data. This data will substantiate the method of qual- 
ification of each item. This data will be reviewed for completeness and 
acceptability of the item to meet specification requirements. 

3.1.11 FAILURE REPORTING, ANALYSIS AND CORRECTIVE ACTION 


The required actions for the failure data collection, analysis and corrective 
action will be implemented by the existing Aerospace Group operating procedures. 
The procedures provide an Integrated Record System to control the recording of 


307 


D180-18450-3 



COMPANY 


all data associated with assembly, inspection and test of Boeing built hardware 
and inspection and test of supplier hardware which has been accepted. All anom 
alies, discrepancies and failures are recorded by this system. 

A failure is defined as the hardware being unable to perform within the minimum 
design requirements at any level of test subsequent to initial Quality Control 
acceptance. 

A report of each failure is required as follows: 

a. Suppliers will provide failure reports as discussed in Section 3.3 of this 
plan. The data required is the same as below. 

b. Boeing prepared reports will utilize the "Unplanned Event Record" (UER) 
which is part of the Integrated Record System. The extent of completion 
of entries on this form depends upon the place of failure or point on the 
manufacturing or use cycle. The following data elements or equivalent 
are required on failure reports: 

1. Report number 

2. Reporting contract 

3. Work center/department (either) 

i 

4. Failed item part number 

5. Failed item serial number 

6. Failed item manufacturer 

7. Date of failure 

8. Activity during which failure occurred or was first detected 

9. Narrative description of failure 

10. Prepared by (name) 

11. Analysis of discrepancy 

12. Corrective action to prevent recurrence 

13. Effect on reliability 

14. Indication of disposition, i.e., close-out of reports 

Space for additional description data is normally included on the failure 
report form to facilitate processing. 


3.1.11.1 Failure Analysis . The following actions, as necessary, will be taken 
to determine the cause of fai 1 ure : 

a. Inspection of the failed hardware. 

b. Analysis of available design data, failure reports, test log, and perform- 
ance histories. 


308. 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 ai«B OflIC. 4/ 7 1 



THE 


COMPANY 


c. Duplication or simulation of conditions under which the failure occurred. 

Failure analysis is conducted at the lowest suspect level, normally the compon- 
ent level. Physics of failure analysis will be conducted to the level required 
to determine the primary cause of failure. 

3.1.11.2 Corrective Action . The cause of each failure will be determined 
either by inspection or testing of the failed hardware or by analysis of avail- 
able design data, failure reports, and test results. 

All failures will be studied by the contractor, and corrective action will be 
determined for the prevention or reduction of similar failures. Such correc- 
tive action may include, but is not limited to: 

a. Design change. 

b. Procedure change. 

c. Review of test, inspection, or maintenance requirements. 

d. Revision of handling or storage requirements. 

Quality Control and the Reliability/Safety and Configuration Control organiza- 
tion will monitor the prompt processing of corrective action. Determination of 
corrective action is undertaken immediately and considered outstanding after 7 
days. Outstanding requirements for corrective action will be included in 
Reliability Status Reports and internal reports for management meetings. 

The Engineering organization is provided with copies of all failure reports 
affecting design. These reports are open until disposition by Engineering 
allowing Quality Control to close out the reports. All failure reports are 
routed back to Engineering to alert the designer to problem areas and to obtain 
design correction where necessary. 

The Reliability/Safety and Configuration Control organization is provided with 
a copy of all failure reports to evaluate the effect on reliability and effec- 
tiveness of corrective action. 

3.1.11.3 Failure Summary Reports . The failure reports will provide the basis 
for preparation of a failure summary report. This report will consist of sup- 
plier and Boeing significant failures. Significant failures are those satellite 
equipment failures occurring during acceptance, qualification, and system test, 
having a potential of affecting mission reliability. Except, failures caused 

by test personnel error, test equipment anomalies, or test operating procedure 
faults will not be included in Failure Summary Reports; however, all failure 
report and Corrective action records of the Reliability organization shall be 
available, upon request, for customer review. 


309 

D180-18450-3 


6000 2145 ORIC, 4/7 1 



TH* 


M£FJF£Af£? 


COMPANY 


3.1.12 SUSPECT MATERIAL DEFICIENCIES 

Suspect Material Deficiency Notices transmitted to the BSRM program by the cus- 
tomer will be reviewed for applicability. If the suspect material deficiency 
notices apply to BSRM equipment, responses will be prepared and submitted to 
the customer. 

The customer will be notified by telephone within three days after usage has 
been determined and a formal report will be airmailed within 21 days after 
usage has been determined. Material Suspect Deficiency Notices transmitted by 
the customer to the contractor for information only will be reviewed for applic 
ability and will be summarized in the Reliability Status Report upon conclusion 
of the investigation. In all cases, the customer will be notified if it has 
been established that the Suspect Material Deficiency Notices relate to BSRM 
satellite equipment. 

3.1.13 NOTIFICATION OF INADEQUATE RARTS/SPECIFIGATIONS 

Inadequate parts/specifications notifications will be prepared as required for 
BSRM satellite parts. Reports will be written for parts which were accepted 
as meeting procurement specifications, MIL specifications, or were qualified 
vendor parts which have suffered repeated failures, or failures which have a 
critical impact on the program. 

An initial notification will be transmitted to the customer by telephone no 
later than three days after discovery, followed by a formal report within 30 
days after discovery. 


310 

D180- 18450-3 


DO 6000 214 ft ORIS, 4/7 1 



TMI 


COMPANY 


3.2 PARTS CONTROL AND STANDARDIZATION 


The selection of parts, materials, and processes is controlled and approved by 
the Rel iabil ity/ Safety and Configuration Control organization to ensure that 
the selection satisfies reliability requirements. Existing S3 program parts, 
materials and processes will be used extensively. The selection of specifica- 
tions and standards will be in accordance with MIL-STD-143 except as follows: 

a. All electronic parts/devices shall be screened in accordance with MIL-STD- 
883, Method 5004 Class B for micro-circuits and MIL ER (level R or better) 
or JAN TX for parts other than micro-circuits. 

b. Military standards parts devices can be used if qualified by usage in 

similar applications and screened in accordance with a. above. 

c. Commercial parts devices may be used only if it can be established that 

they meet the requirements of this document and have been screened in 

accordance with a. above. Commercial integrated circuits may be used 
only if subjected to a visual inspection before encapsulation and to 
screening. 

Control of parts for in-house design shall be through close coordination between 
reliability specialists and designers, parts application reviews and reliability 
sign-off of drawings and parts lists. 

Control of parts for supplier items shall be through parts selection criteria 
and approval, and through requirements contained in procurement specifications 
reviewed and approved by Reliability. 

Additional parts screening may be required where deemed necessary and a screen- 
ing burn-in of black box level hardware will provide additional assurance that 
the required reliability levels can be maintained. Where required to support 
reliability evaluations, a parts tabulation shall be prepared for all satellite 
design, new and established, listing complete part identification, derating 
factors, failure rates and failure rate sources. 

Selection of critical materials and processes will be controlled similarly to 
that for parts. That is, through specific requirements in procurement specifi- 
cation. In-house material and process selection will be made through the 
established Materials and Process Standards supplemented by specialists assigned 
to the program. 

For new parts selection, Boeing's Aerospace Experience Analysis Center will pro- 
vide assistance in determining if tests on the selected parts have already been 
conducted by other contractors or government agencies. The Boeing Aerospace 
Electrical/Electronic Technology and Standards and Specifications organization 
will assist in determining whether these parts have been tested by Boeing for 
other programs. This will prevent duplication of testing when adequate test 
data is already available and will allow curtailment of other tests for which 
some of the required data already exists. 


311 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2TA5 ORIG. A/ 7 1 



TMt 


COMPANY 


Boeing is an active member of the Government Industry Data Exchange Program 
(GIDEP). A complete file of all GIDEP material is available within the Center. 
Information from this file will be used to avoid duplication of parts testing. 
This parts information will also be made available to suppliers who request 
assistance. 

Design practices are closely controlled through existing corporate, group and 
division design manuals and program instructions directing the use of these 
standards. The use of these standards will be monitored through design review 
and through the review and approval process applied to drawings, specifications, 
and test procedures. 


312 

D180-18450-3 


DO AOOO 214B OHIO- 4/71 



THf 


COMPANY 


3.3 SUPPLIER SELECTION AND CONTROLS 


Reliability and maintainability requirements will be imposed on suppliers con- 
sistent with those imposed on Boeing design and appropriate to the equipment 
being procured. These requirements will be selectively imposed by the procure- 
ment specifications commensurate with the state of design (e.g., new, major 
modification, off-the-shelf), cost and criticality. Existing S3 hardware will 
be used extensively and will be procured to existing supplier specifications 
and drawings. Typical requirements include the following: 

a. Reliability Analysis - The supplier will be required to conduct a relia- 
bility analysis to show compliance with the specified minimum reliability 
requirements. Reliability data from other programs which are flight-proven 
identical hardware shall be considered as adequate indication of compliance 
by comparison, provided that the data is submitted and/or the source infor- 
mation provided. As an alternate, component failure rates may be used to 
demonstrate the reliability figure. Existing S3 analyses will be used where 
applicable. 

b. Failure Mode and Effect Analysis - The supplier will provide sufficient 
detail data to the contractor to support the FMEA. Existing S3 data will 
be used where applicable. 

c. Failure Reporting and Corrective Action - Supplier will be required to 
maintain a system for reporting all failures during qualification and 
acceptance testing on Boeing-supplied forms (or equivalent). Failure 
reports will be sent to Boeing within three days after failure occurrence 
for prompt processing by the Design Engineering and Reliability/Safety 
and Configuration Control organizations. 

The supplier will be required to investigate the cause of failure and 
define the corrective action necessary to prevent recurrence. Materiel 
and Reliability/Safety and Configuration Control organizations will 
maintain follow-up records to ensure that proper corrective action, 
when required, has been taken to prevent failure recurrence. Suppliers 
will be required to report follow-up action on each failure not resolved. 

3.3.1 SOURCE SELECTION 


Reliability and maintainability at the subcontract level for the BSRM program 
starts with the preparation of specifications containing reliability and main- 
tainability requirements. Existing S3 sources will be used extensively and 
previous supplier proposal data will be considered applicable. Prior to prepar- 
ation of requests for any new proposal, the industry capability will be reviewed 
for capable sources and interest. Request for proposals will contain a numerical 
reliability requirement; the description of, and requirement for, other reliabil- 
ity items. Criteria for proposal evaluation established prior to receipt of 
proposals will be used in the proposal rating process. Proposals will be 
reviewed by Engineering, Materiel, Quality, and Rel iabil ity/ Safety and Configur- 
ation Control organizations. During the review process, bidders may be requested 
to clarify or amend any questionable areas or deficiencies in their proposals. 


313 

D180-18450-3 


6000 2145 ORIG. 4/7 1 



TH« 


COMPANY 


After receipt of any bidder proposal addenda, a final rating is made and the 
supplier selected. 

3.3.2 CONTRACT COMPLIANCE 

After selection of a supplier to participate in the BSRM program, and during 
the negotiation period, the reliability requirements as specified in the pro- 
curement specification are reviewed with the supplier for understanding and 
agreement. The follow-up plan to ensure contract compliance entails four main 
elements: 

a. The design reliability analysis, required of suppliers is specified in 
the Source Control Drawing, and production of the end item cannot be 
approved until all critical design requirements are fulfilled. 

b. Failure reporting by suppliers is subject to surveillance at the 1 
sources by the Boeing Quality Representative. 

c. Supplier corrective action is required for hardware failures affecting 
reliability. The suppliers' proposed corrections require concurrence 

1 of both Boeing Engineering and Quality Control. ‘ , 

d. Review and approval of data presented at the design review. 

* 

3.3.3 DESIGN REVIEWS 

For any new items other than qualified S3 components, the supplier will be 
required to submit design data and a drawing package to the contractor before 
the design review. Representatives of the contractor's Reliability/Safety 
and Design Engineering organizations review all of the supplier's data and 
drawings, and reliability personnel will attend the supplier's design reviews 
as often as determined to be necessary. In all cases, the contractor will 
approve supplier reliability analyses and reports and review supplier design 
validations before granting design approval. 


314 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2146 ORIS. 4/7» 



THE 


COMPANY 


3.4 SYSTEM SAFETY PLAN 


The System Safety Plan defines the tasks by which the Contractor plans to meet 
the safety requirements of the Statement of Work. The overall objectives of 
the plan are to develop an effective safety program which, through analysis, 
establishment of requirements, design and procedures review, and monitoring of 
potentially hazardous operations, will identify and eliminate or control safety 
critical aspects of the program. The primary objective of the Safety Program 
is the elimination of Category IV hazards and the minimizing of Category III 
hazards, consistent with system objectives. 

The scope of the plan encompasses all safety activity related to the BSRM sat- 
ellites and Boeing designed AGE and GHE. It also includes establishment of 
safety interface constraints for payload potential hazards and the establish- 
ment of an integrated payload radiological safety program. 

3.4.1 ORGANIZATION 


System Safety interfaces with the reliability organization. Both organiza- 
tions are under the Rel i a bil ity/ Safety and Configuration Control manager. 
System Safety is supported, when required, by the Aerospace Product Support 
Engineering (Safety) staff, and the Industrial Hygiene and Safety and Radia- 
tion Health Protection corporate staff organizations. 

3.4.2 SAFETY PROGRAM TASKS 

The Safety Program Tasks are identified below in sequence, and phased with 
the program milestones. 

3.4. 2.1 Program Go-Ahead . 

a. Prepare Safety Program Plan. 

b. Provide safety data requirements for Interface Control Drawings. 

c. Release standard safety criteria including equipment safety require- 
ments for satellites and AGE/GHE. 

d. Perform Preliminary Hazards Analysis and update safety design criteria. 
Identify safety critical aspects and hazards. 

e. Provide Safety Inputs to Cl Part I Specifications. 


315 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2145 ORIG. 4/7 1 


THE 


COMPANY 


f. Evaluate satellite design concepts. 

g. Review and approve AGE/GHE engineering drawings. 

3.4. 2. 2 Critical Design Review 

a. Present Preliminary Hazards Analysis Results. 

b. Review and approve engineering drawings. 

c. Prepare Radiological Safety Analysis Sunmary (if required). 

d. Review and complete Range Safety checklist, progressive with design. 

e. Prepare Ground Safety Plan. 

f. Provide Safety inputs to Cl Part II Specifications. 

g. Provide safety inputs and review and approve test plans and procedures, 
ground handling and transportation plan, for safety critical aspects 
and controls. 

h. Monitor safety-critical tests, and coordinate requirements with Indus- 
trial Safety and with Radiological Safety organizations (if required). 

i. Review test results and failures for potential hazards. 

j. Checkout design compliance with all safety requirements for preaccept- 
ance review. 

3. 4. 2. 3 Acceptance Review 

a. Confirm completion of all safety analyses. 

b. Confirm compliance of deliverable hardware (AGE and flight systems) to 
safety requirements. 

3.4.3 HAZARD LEVELS 


For the purpose of providing a qualitative measure of the hazards to be iden- 
tified in the Preliminary Hazards Analysis, MIL-STD-882 levels will be used 
defined as follows: 

a. Category I - Negligible 

Conditions such that personnel error, environment, design characteristics, 
procedural deficiencies, or subsystem or component failure or malfunction 
will not result in personnel injury or system damage. 


316 

D180-18450-3 



THE 


COMPANY 


Category II - Marginal 


Conditions such that personnel error, environment, design characteristics, 
procedural deficiencies, or subsystem or component failure or malfunctions 
can be counteracted or controlled without injury to personnel or major 
system damage. 


c. Category III - Critical 

Conditions such that personnel error, environment, design characteristics, 
procedural deficiencies, or subsystem or component failure or malfunction 
will cause personnel or major system damage, or will require immediate cor- 
rective action for personnel or system survival. 


d. Category IV - Catastrophic 

Conditions such that personnel error, environment, design characteristics, 
procedural deficiencies or subsystem or component failure or malfunction 
will cause death or severe injury to personnel, or system loss. 


Based on these definitions, Category IV hazards will be eliminated by design 
or procedures (excluding equipment protection from lightning, as effectiveness 
of grounding systems cannot be established), and Category III hazards shall be 
minimized consistent with program objectives. 


3.4.4 


DESIGN AND PROCEDURES CRITERIA 


Based on the Preliminary Hazards Analysis, safety criteria shall be established, 
to provide a base for system design. These criteria, through their incorpora- 
tion into the Cl specifications, will become requirements for the design. Exist- 
ing S3 designs, procedures, AGE, etc., already contained in published S3 Hazards 
Analysis documentation will not be reanalyzed. 


System Safety shall provide the safety criteria for inclusion into the CEI Spec- 
ifications, as indicated in the organizational interfaces in Section 2 (Figure 
2-2); assurance that the criteria are included in the CEI specifications will 
be ensured by the required review and approval of the documentation (CDRL Items 
A004 through A009) by System Safety, prior to its release. 


Compliance of the design with CEI requirements shall be monitored by System 
Safety through review and approval of engineering drawings, test plans and pro- 
cedures. 


Revisions to all of the above documentation also shall require review and approval 
by System Safety. 


3.4.5 SAFETY ANALYSES 


3. 4. 5.1 Preliminary Hazards Analysis . The initial safety task is a Preliminary 
Hazards Analysis of the satellite system, and other related Boeing designed 


317 

D180- 18450-3 


DO 6000 2145 ORIG. 4/7 1 



THI 


COMPANY 


equipment. It shall identify all safety critical aspects of the program (systems, 
facilities, events, processes and operations) for the purpose of developing safety 
design criteria to be incorporated into the Cl specifications and associated pro- 
curement specifications, design requirements and procedures. The analysis will 
be performed as specified by paragraph 5.8. 2.1 of MIL-STD-882. 

In particular, the analysis shall include a detail review of the safety require- 
ments of AFSC Handbook DH-1-6 (Design notes 3GX, 3HX, and 3RX) and requirement 
No. 1 of MIL-STD-454C, for applicability to the BSRM Project. A rationale for 
exclusion of individual requirements shall be provided, and the applicable 
requirements shall be identified, together with the Cl specifications into which 
they will be incorporated. 

3.4. 5.2 Post-Analysis Action . The results of the Preliminary Hazards Analysis 
shall be reviewed with the project design and test organizations for incorpora- 
tion of criteria and requirements into the BSRM system. Any Category IV satel- 
lite hazards shall be eliminated by design changes, requiring system safety 
approval. Category III shall also be eliminated when possible, or minimized and 
controlled. Elimination and control of hazards may require design trades, which 
shall be evaluated for effectiveness by the System Safety organization. 


3.4. 5.3 Random Re-Entry From Orbit . The contractor will review sa tell ite com- 
ponents for characteristics (large mass, high melting point) which could consti- 
tute a hazard during random re-entry, and where feasible will design for elimin- 
ating or decreasing the hazard. The review will include supplier and Boeing 
designed equipment. 

3.4.6 NON-DELIVERABLE DATA 

Program internal directives and correspondence required for the accomplishment 
of the safety tasks are not deliverable; however, safety directives will be 
available for review by the customer. 

Hazards and accident data and safety publications originated within Boeing and/ 
or obtained from the Government or industrial sources, or transmitted to the 
program by the Government, will be reviewed by Safety Engineering for applicabil- 
ity to the program. 

3.4.7 TRAINING 


No special safety training is anticipated for the BSRM program, as the hazards 
involved and related procedures closely match those of existing contracts, equip- 
ment procedures and industrial practices. The operating personnel handling or 
controlling hazardous materials at Boeing, i.e., ordnance, radioactive sources, 
will be required to be certified or to have equivalent experience. This require- 
ment shall be included in all test procedures ensuring that qualified personnel 
perform or control all hazardous operations. 


318 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2145 ORlG. 4/7 



THE 


COMPANY 


3.4.8 


GROUND HANDLING, STORAGE, SERVICING AND TRANSPORTATION 


The applicable requirements and guidelines of AFM 127-101 "Accident Prevention 
Handbook" will be applied to the BSRM project, for ground handling, storage, 
servicing and transportation of all program equipment. Handling and servicing 
equipment at Boeing complies with the requirements established by Industrial 
Hygiene and Safety, is calibrated and/or proof tested periodically, and com- 
plies with applicable Federal and Washington State requirements. 


Handling and servicing equipment designed specially for the program will comply 
with standard safety design practices (Boeing Standards) and Safety design and 
procedures requirements of AFM-101. 


3.4.9 FACILITIES AND SUPPORT REQUIREMENTS 

Safety critical aspects relating to facilities will be identified during the 
Preliminary Hazards Analysis, and the resulting safety requirements will be 
incorporated into test procedures. These procedures will also contain caution- 
ary notes to ensure facility compliance with safety requirements during tests 
and operations. 


3.4.10 RANGE SAFETY 


The applicable Range Safety Requirements of the BSRM launch site will be included 
in the satellite Cl specifications. System Safety will ensure compliance with 
these requirements by the use of the Range Safety Checklist, and by review and 
approval of design, test and analysis data, and test and checkout procedures. 


A waiver to paragraph 8.3.5 of Section C of AFWTRM 127-1 exists for the S3 pro- 
gram. The waiver will be included in the applicable Cl specification and will 
be continued for the BSRM program. 


3.4.11 EXPLOSIVES AND ORDNANCE SAFETY 

EED's shall comply with the requirements of the BSRM launch site. The EED shall 
also be required to comply with Paragraph 3. 2. 3.1 of MIL-E-6051D, as modified to 
provide for a 20 db safety margin. 


3.4.12 RELATIONS WITH OTHER CONTRACTORS 


The specifications for procurement of equipment from suppliers will be subject 
to System Safety review and approval to ensure safety requirements have been 
included. The equipment will be identified in the Preliminary Hazards Analysis. 
Compliance with the safety requirements will be verified at the equipment criti- 
cal design reviews. 


The safety interfaces with Payload contractor/agencies will be established at 
Payload Interface meetings. During these meetings, the Payload contractor/ 
agencies will be requested to provide data on payload hazardous materials/equip- 
ments, required for the Preliminary Hazards Analysis and Range Safety Documen- 

319 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2145 ORlG. 4/ 7 1 



THE 


COMPANY 


tation. Radioactive materials data will also be requested for integration into ( 
the Radiological Safety Report (if applicable). 



3.4.13 SAFETY TESTING 


No safety testing is anticipated on the BSRM program to acquire safety data 
with the exception of standard production proof testing of handling slings, 
calibration of test instrumentation and standard ordnance production tests. 
Ordnance RF susceptibility testing may be required if the selected ordnance 
has not been previously tested. 

Radiation surveys of any radioactive sources associated with the payloads shall 
be performed at Boeing to ensure that the sources are safe for handling, during 
assembly and test operations. 


3.4.14 SYSTEM SURVEILLANCE 

Government safety personnel at the BSRM launch site will have the responsibil- 
ity for surveillance of compliance with safety procedures during the satellite 
ordnance arming functions prior to launch. 


Boeing safety personnel shall have the responsibility for ensuring all applic- 
able safety cautions, requirements and procedures are included in the Test 
Procedures. 


The Boeing Industrial Hygiene and Safety Organization will have responsibility 
for safety surveillance during all hazardous operations at Boeing relating to 
BSRM manufacturing and testing. 


3.4.15 RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS 

On previous low cost satellite programs at Boeing certain GFE payloads included 
internal radioactive sources. Also, radioactive sources have been used extern- 
ally to the satellite for calibration purposes. For the BSRM program, if radio- 
active materials are used, they will conform to the following: 

a. All operations involving the use of payload radioactive materials at Boeing 
facilities, and during Boeing transportation of equipment to the launch site, 
will be conducted in compliance with all applicable Federal, State and 
Government regulations. This includes the control of receiving, storing, 
transferring and using of all sources of ionizing radiation. 

b. The Radiation Health Protection Staff has the authority and responsibility 
to order the inmediate cessation and correction of any operation found to 
constitute an unsafe radiation hazard, or which is not in conformance with 
pertinent government standards, laws and regulations. 


320 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2^46 OHtG. 4/7 ) 



COMPANY 



c. 


For all contractor operations relating to radioactive materials, the applic- 
able requirements of Boeing's "Industrial Hazards Control Bulletin No. 76" 
will apply. Included shall be: 


Appendix A - Maximum Permissible Exposure Limits 
Appendix B - Acceptable Radiation Work Practices 
Appendix C - Emergency Procedures 


d. The contractor will identify to the government established safety criteria 
requirements and controls to eliminate or minimize hazards generated by 
radioactive materials. The contractor will also compile and provide to the 
government a description of all radioactive sources used in the satellite 
systems, including approximate location, quantities, strength, manufacturer, 
and other known data valuable for alerting personnel working on the satel- 
lite system about the existing radiological hazards. 


e. The contractor will be responsible for obtaining and maintaining applicable 
licenses to possess specifically licensed radioactive materials. 


For the BSRM safety program, the safety engineer will have the technical support 
of the Radiation Health Protection Staff, which under the Boeing Corporate Direc- 
tor of Medical Services, has the responsibility to: 


a. Develop, publish and monitor the implementation of standards for health 
protection from ionizing radiation hazards. 



b. 


Provide technical leadership, advice and assistance for compliance with 
applicable radiation control standards and regulations in the operation 
of facilities or processes involving radiation sources. 


The Radiation Health Protection Staff also has the responsibility for adminis- 
tering a radiation protection program and monitoring service for all operations 
in the contractor's facility, during Boeing transportation and for Satellite 
Safety procedures at the launch site. The program will: 


a. Enforce compliance with radiation protection standards and regulations. 

b. Ensure that personnel have been adequately endoctrinated for safe opera- 
tion involving the use of radioactive materials. 

c. Conduct surveys of Boeing test operations employing radioactive mate- 
rials, and monitor any corrective action necessary to satisfy govern- 
mental requirements concerning the use of radioactive materials. 

d. Provide technical counsel to the Isotope Conmittee relative to Atomic 
Energy Commission licensing requirement for acquisition and use of 
radioactive materials when intra-company transfers of specifically 
licensed radioactive materials are involved. 



321 

D180-18450-3 


«n r > n ? 1 a k 


nmc. j/7i 


THE 


COMPANY 


3.5 QUALITY CONTROL PLAN 

Existing quality control plans and procedures successfully used on previous 
Boeing spacecraft programs will be used for the BSRM program. The objective 
of the quality control program is to obtain a successful test and flight by 
obtaining trouble-free operation of all equipment early in the program and 
by assuring that quality will not be degraded by human factors, procedures 
and testing. 

The Quality Assurance organization has the responsibility of ensuring that all 
delivered equipment conforms to design and contract requirements. This is 
accomplished by a continuing surveillance of all phases of design, procurement, 
manufacture, and delivery. This function starts during the early phase of 
design to ensure that quality and acceptance criteria are evaluated for com- 
pleteness and for compliance with contract requirements. Quality Assurance 
personnel review and approve all Manufacturing planning to ensure that proper 
and adequate qual ity and engineering specifications are included in the proper 
sequence. After production starts. Quality Assurance personnel constantly 
control in-process manufacturing by performing critical inspections and final 
inspections as specified by the planning. The complete manufacturing operation, 
including storage, material handling, shipping and control of Government Furn- 
ished Equipment, is included in this program. 

3.5.1 PROCUREMENT CONTROL 


Suppliers are required to demonstrate compliance with quality standards, proce- 
dures, and processes established for the contract. Purchase Orders will be 
screened to verify that quality, design and contractual obligations have been 
included. The supplier will supply records of actual test data with the cor- 
responding shipments of materials, parts, or assemblies. This test data will 
be compared with Receiving Inspection results to check quality trends. Upon 
receiving, purchased articles will be inspected for supplier conformance to 
terms of the Purchase Order, as well as required physical and functional char- 
acteristics. 

3.5.2 PRODUCT CONTROL 

3. 5.2.1 Work Plans . The fabrication, assembly and test processes are c on- 
trolled through Manufacturing work plans containing the sequence of work in 
such detail as necessary to accomplish the job and to maintain a progressive 
acceptance history of work performed. The quality characteristics to be 
inspected or controlled are integrated with these work plans to ensure that 
Engineering requirements are maintained and that all processing and fabrica- 
tion are accomplished under controlled conditions. 

Quality Planning approves the inspection points specified on the work plan to 
ensure that the product is inspected at the proper stage of fabrication or 
assembly. Quality stamps and dates the work order indicating final acceptance 
of the product to the engineering drawing and the referenced process specifica- 
tions. 


322 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 214B ORlG. 4/71 



THE 


COMPANY 


3. 5. 2. 2 Acceptance Criteria . Acceptance criteria will be based on requirements 
of Engineering drawing, process, or test documentation. Instructions will 
include standard Quality Conformance Inspection procedures that establish the 
inspection characteristics method, and requirements for inspection of all steps 
of manufacturing. 

3. 5. 2. 3 Process Monitoring . Procedures and processes will continually be mon- 
itored. Controls are established for critical processes and for the training 
and certification of personnel responsible for performing fabrication and 
inspection operations. Assurance for process qualification, process control, 
and for verification of operators certification status is provided for all 
critical processing. 

Existing contractor material and process specifications and standards will be 
used in production. Specifications will be developed by Engineering and approved 
by Manufacturing, Materiel, and Quality Control when standards do not exist or 
when they are inadequate. Any change to a process specification is coordinated 
and approved by these same departments. These specifications are called out on 
the released engineering drawings and Manufacturing Engineering references the 
process specifications on the production shop order. 

3. 5. 2. 4 Material Control, Identification, Handling and.Storage . Material, 
parts and assemblies are identified in accordance with engineering instructions 
before, during and after fabrication or assembly operations. Parts and assem- 
blies are identified by part number and/or serial number. Records of the chem- 
ical and/or physical tests necessary to confirm material acceptability are main- 
tained by Quality Control. 

3. 5. 2. 5 Nonconforming Material . The system established to control nonconform- 
ing material accounts for the requirements of identification, segregation, dis- 
position of material, and corrective action as a result of deficiencies. The 
Quality Assurance organization will identify all rejected material by attaching 
an Unplanned Event - Rejection Tag. Disposition will be made by Quality Assur- 
ance if the material is incomplete because of work omissions or can be restored 
to conformance by routine correction of workmanship errors. A full Material 
Review Board, consisting of Engineering, Quality and Customer representatives 
will be held when, in the opinion of the Quality Assurance supervisor, the 
material is to be used "as is" or repaired. A copy of all unplanned events in 
the Boeing Integrated Record System is routed immediately to Engineering and 
Reliability for failure review and correction. The combined efforts of Materiel, 
Manufacturing, Engineering and Quality Assurance personnel will provide the 
action needed to preclude recurrence of defects. Corrective actions concerning 
suppliers will be coordinated with the Materiel organization to ensure that 
quality trends and production of nonconforming articles have been detected and 
analyzed, and that corrective action has been accomplished. 


323 

D180-18450-3 


TMK 


COMPANY 


3.5.3 GOVERNMENT FURNISHED PROPERTY 


When government furnished property is received, Boeing will inspect for damage 
in transit and completeness, and will implement existing controls procedures to 
preclude damage while in Boeing's possession. 

3.5.4 CONFIGURATION ACCOUNTABILITY AND RECORDS 

Configuration accountability is the element of the inspection system providing 
visibility and records for ensuring compliance with the complete technical 
description. The existing Integrated Records System (IRS) will be used as the 
single system for recording and accumulating the data required to show progres- 
sive evidence of hardware completion and acceptance from Source/Receiving to 
end product. After completion of the manufacturing cycle, a complete configur- 
ation review is made. This consists of reviewing all Manufacturing Records 
against the appropriate drawings and specifications to ensure that the "as- 
built" configuration is the same as the specification requirements. 

The existing IRS procedures include requirements for configuration accountabil- 
ity during all test programs. Quality Control monitors test conduction to 
insure compliance with approved procedures and to prevent unauthorized devia- 
tions. All test equipment is inspected and approved for proof loading, calibra- 
tion, etc., and verification is included in test records. Quality Control, 
through their approval of test work plans after test completion, verifies that 
all test success criteria were properly met. In the event of a test anomaly or 
failure to meet success criteria, an Unplanned Event - Rejection Tag is issued 
requiring Engineering disposition and customer approval. 

3.5.5 MEASUREMENT STANDARDS AND TESTING EQUIPMENT 

The certification and calibration of measuring equipment are defined and docu- 
mented. These calibration and certification documents are on file with the 
local Air Force Plant Representative. All measurement and testing equipment 
used in the BSRM program will be traceable to the National Bureau of Standards 
with respect to calibration. 

Test(s) are conducted with calibrated and certified (cal cert) test equipment. 
Calibration and certification cycles are controlled by formal Boeing procedures, 
which also require that the date of the next calcert cycle be noted on a stamp 
affixed to the test equipment. Tests may not be conducted with outdated or 
non-dated equipment. 


324 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 ORI5. 4/7 I 



THE 


COMPANY 


4.0 SYSTEM TEST PLAN 

This plan describes the test program for the BSRM satellite. It provides a gen- 
eral description of the tests, states the test objectives and shows the sequence 
of testing. Test support requirements, test responsibilities and management, and 
documentation and other test controls are also defined. 

The system test program for the BSRM was developed from extensive experience gain- 
ed during similar test programs for other spacecraft systems. The test program 
ensures a thoroughly tested and reliable functional satellite. The test program 
offers the following features: 

o The satellite systems are functionally complete and checked out, in- 
cluding simulated payload interfacts, prior to mating flight payloads. 

o Complete subsystem tests assure proper operation under simulated 
flight conditions. 

o Complete integration tests with all flight payloads installed verify 
end-to-end operation for maximum assurance of satisfactory operation 
in orbit. 1 

o Use of existing test procedures, techniques and software assure on- 
schedule completion. 

o Compatibility established using experienced personnel and proven data 
interfaces. 

4.1 TEST CATEGORIES 

The various tests described in this plan are organized according to Category I and 
Category II testing. Category I tests are defined in this program as engineering 
development tests at the component and subsystem level. In addition, certain sys- 
tem level tests will be performed on the satellites prior to the installation and 
integration of the satellite payloads as shown in Table 4.1-1. 

Category II tests are system level tests performed on each satellite during and 
after integration of the satellite payloads. These will include demonstration 
tests (generally operationally environmental in nature) and satellite final ac- 
ceptance test. Table 4.1-1 shows the applicability of these tests. 

4.1.1 CATEGORY I DEFINITION 

The objective of the engineering development testing phase of the BSRM program is 
to obtain engineering data necessary to determine adequacy of the design and the 
functional parameters of the subsystems. These tests will verify that the design 
operates within the predicted limits when the hardware is subjected to simulated 
operational conditions. 

The objective of system level functional integration and system performance test- 
ing without payloads is to verify the functional operation and compatibility of 
all satellite subsystems, and verify the payload electrical interfaces prior to 
their installation. 


401 

D180- 18450-3 


THE 


COMPANY 


TABLE 4.1-1: CATEGORY I & II TEST MATRIX 


' .... 

Spin-Stabil ized 

3-Axis Control 

First Each 

Unit Unit 

First Each 

Unit Unit 

j 

i 

| Category I : 



Struct/Mech 

X 

X j 

! Antenna Pattern 

X 

X 

Component Magnetic Test 

X 

X 

Functional (w/o Payloads) 

X 

X 

System Perf. (w/o Payloads) 

X 

x ! 
i 

' Category II: 


t 

' . 1 

i Qualification 

N/A N/A 

N/A N/A ‘ 

1 TM Calibration 

X 

x ! 1 

! Functional (with Payloads) 

X 

x i 

FI ight Simulation 

X 

X i 

\ Preliminary Mass Properties 

X 

X 

EMC 

X 

X 

Mag. Survey 

X 

X 

Resonance Search 

X 

X 

Acoustic 

X 

X 

SPT 

X 

x 1 

Shock 

X 

X i 

SPT 

X 

X 1 

Thermal Vacuum 

X 

X I 

SPT 

X 


STDN Compatibility 

X 

x i 

( 

Deployment 

X 

x 1 

Final Mass Properties 

X 

X [ 

Acceptance 

X 

x i 

1 

! 


402 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2145 ORIG. 4/7 1 







THE 


COMPANY 


4 . 1 .2 CATEGORY II DEFINITION 


The objectives of the system level demonstration tests are to integrate the 
payloads with the satellite, demonstrate performance of the satellite sub- 
systems in conjunction with the payloads, and verify that the satellite sys- 
tem, subsystems, and payloads meet design requirements, are compatible, and 
operate properly within operational environments. 

The acceptance test is performed after the completion of all demonstration 
testing with the objectives to verify that the satellite meets performance 
requirements and is ready for acceptance review and delivery. 

4.2 BOEING MOBILE TEST LAB (MTL) 

Spacecraft testing is conducted using a Boeing-owned command and telemetry 
ground station to verify satellite performance. The MTL contains the equip- 
ment required to: 

o Receive and evaluate satellite telemetry data, 
o Record test data, 
o Transmit satellite commands, 
o Identify out-of-tolerance measurements, 
o Format and display selected test data. 

o Service operator requests for data processing, command generation 
and transmission, display formatting and software operation. 

o Retrieve, display and print selected data. 

The equipment is contained in an 8 feet high by 8 feet wide by 34 feet long 
equipment module mounted on a four-wheel trailer. The wheels are removable 
for air or road mobility. The MTL is described in detail in D180-18431-2. 
Figure 4.2-1 presents a block diagram showing the manual and computer- 
controlled test modes. 

The use of the Boeing MTL shortens test schedules and reduces program costs. 
It stores test procedure sequences, satellite commands and go/no-go limits 
in the computer memory and provides automatic execution and verification of 
pre-established test criteria. The similarity of the S3 and BSRM subsystems 
allows a large portion of existing test procedures and computer software to 
be used without modification in the BSRM program. 


403 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2145 ORIG. 4/71 


COMPANY 



1 



c/) 


o 

c 

u. 

on 


on 

c 

3 

o 

OC 

< 


o 



o 


• z 

CD 

K“ 1 

Z 

OO 

1 — 4 

CO 

oo 

UJ 

00 

o 

LU 

o 

O 

q: 

o 

q_ 

Q£ >- 

>• 

Q- < 

on c 

_l 

LU U 

-J CL 

b- CL 

<t oo 

ID CO 

ID i-i 

Q. l-H 

Z Q 

21 Q 

<c 

0 

S 03 

O 03 


O 

z 

UJ 

CD 


r — "i 

I O UJ 
1 Z J I 

,< o I 

I 


n 


r 

I I 

L~-» 1 

I I , 


o o 

<_> <_> 


PI 


CD 


1 

UJ , 
CD I 




I 

-A 
-II 
If 


I I 

Si 

on 

UJ 

t— 

z> 

•— < Cl. 


I 


o 

o 


I 


*1 r 


LR5 


CC l 

P I 

CO I 


4- 

1 »— I 

If 3 


£1 


5J 


1 1 


r 


| Q 

I Q£ I- >- 


III 


ml 


<C on <c| I 'Joui 

O O — I 1 I z 

CO CL. . O •— I 


ft Li— 

I o o 

CQ Cl. 
| >- Q COI 
I UJ Z »— 1 1 

L^J 


l§ 

I I 


Q£ i 

0-1 


<c 

on 

CD 

< 


<_> 

o 

_J 

CQ 


CD 

Z 


o 

CQ 


CM 

*3- 

LU 

on 

13 

CD 


404 

D180-18450-3 


OO 8000 2148 ORIG. 4/71 










THE 


COMPANY 


4.3 CATEGORY I TESTS 


The first BSRM satellite, either spin-stabilized or 3-axis stabilized, will be 
subjected to the following engineering development testing, functional testing 
without payloads, and system performance test. Category I tests on succeeding 
BSRM vehicles will be only functional integration without payloads and system 
performance test without payloads. 

4.3.1 STRUCTURAL/MECHANICAL DEVELOPMENT 


Developmental tests will be performed on a structural model to verify that the 
design meets critical structural and mechanical requirements. The structural 
model will consist of the BSRM flight structural assembly, mass simulated equip- 
ment and payload components, flight quality mechanisms (including booms) and 
dummy solar panels. 

4. 3. 1.1 Resonance Search . 

Purpose . To determine the fundamental natural frequency of the satellite when 
attached to a rigid interface at the Scout clamp ring. Requirements are great- 
er than 100 Hz in the axial direction and 20 Hz in the lateral direction. Any 
secondary resonances will also be determined. 

Configuration . BSRM flight structural assembly with mass simulated equipment 
and payload components, flight quality mechanisms and dummy solar panels, 

Test Description . The satellite will be mounted on a shaker table and subjected 
to a low level sine vibration sweep test from 10 Hz to 200 Hz in each axis. 

Sweep rate will be one octave per minute, and input will be controlled to limit 
the maximum response at major resonances to 2.0 g's. Accelerometers will be in- 
stalled at selected locations to measure responses and identify resonances. 

4. 3. 1.2 Acoustic Vibration . 

Purpose . To determine vibration response at 3 dB above expected boost acoustic 
environment. 

Configuration . BSRM flight structural assembly with mass simulated equipment 
and payload components, flight quality mechanisms and dummy solar panels. 

Test Description . The satellite, supported by an acoustic test fixture, will be 
installed in a reverberant test chamber and subjected to the maximum expected 
boost acoustic environment for three minutes. Test tolerance will be +3 dB and 
-6 dB from 50 to 200 Hz, *3 dB from 200 Hz to 2000 Hz, and *6 dB from 2000 Hz to 
10,000 Hz on 1/3 octave bands. Tolerance on overall level will be *1 dB. Accel- 
erometers will be installed on selected equipment component and payload simulators 
to record vibration response. Power Spectral Density analysis of the recorded 
responses will be performed. 

4. 3. 1.3 Separation/ Deployment Shock Test . 

Purpose . To determine the payload and equipment component responses to pyrotech- 
nic shock events. 


405 

D180-18450-3 


THI 


COMPANY 


Configuration . BSRM flight structural assembly with mass simulated equipment 
and payload components, flight quality mechanisms and dummy solar panels. 

Test Description . The satellite will be installed on a test fixture and all 
ordnance will be fired one time for the following events: 

a. Satellite separation from Scout (V-band) 

b. Yo-Yo despin (Pin pullers) 

c. Solar array deployment (Pin pullers) 

d. Antenna/magnetometer boom deployment (Pin pullers) 

Accelerometers will be installed at selected locations and data recorded to 
determine pyro shock environment at the Scout, component, and payload inter- 
faces. Shock responses will be evaluated to verify interface requirements are 
met. 

4. 3. 1.4 Satellite Ejection . 

Purpose . To verify that the V-band clamp will be successfully retained after 
firing and will not interfere with satellite ejection. 

Configuration . BSRM flight structural assembly with mass simulated equipment 
and payload components, flight quality mechanisms and dummy solar panels. 

Test Description . This test will be performed in conjunction with the V-band 
clamp pyro shock test. The satellite will be mounted vertically, counterbalanced 
and the V-band clamp separation ordnance initiated. Separation of the satellite 
and the V-band clamp will be recorded by high speed motion picture cameras to 
verify clamp retention and non-interference. 

4. 3. 1.5 Solar Array Deployment 

Purpose . To determine deployment force margin and deployment time and demons 
strate a minimum first mode frequency of 2.0 Hz in the deployed position. 

Configuration . BSRM flight structural assembly with flight quality mechanisms 
and dummy solar panels. Mass simulated equipment and payload components are 
optional. Flight equivalent wire bundles will be installed across all movable 
joints to simulate their effect on deployment characteristics. 

Test Description . Durrany solar panels will be installed on the satellite. The 
satellite will then be installed in the deployment separation test fixture with 
the panels supported by a spring-cable counterbalance system to simulate zero-g 
condition. The panels will be mechanically released. Functional operation, 
deployment springs and stops will be verified. The test will be performed a 
minimum of five times to verify operation and repeatability. 

4. 3. 1.6 Boom Deployment . 

Purpose . To determine deployment force margin and deployment time. Minimum 


40 £ 

D180-18450-3 


THE 


COMPANY 


first mode frequency of 2.0 Hz will be demonstrated in the deployed position 
and alignment repeatability will be verified. 

Configuration . BSRM flight structural assembly with flight quality mechanisms. 
Mass simulated equipment and paylbad components and dummy solar panels are op- 
tional. Flight equivalent wire bundles will be installed across all movable 
joints to simulate their effect on deployment characteristics. 

Test Description . Flight equivalent booms and actual or mass simulated antennas 
will be installed on the satellite. Any other equipment items installed on the 
booms will be mass simulated. The satellite will be installed in the deployment 
system to simulate zero-g conditions. The antenna release mechanisms will be 
mechanically initiated. Functional operations of the booms, deployment springs, 
and stops will be verified. Deployment spring margins, antenna and magnetometer 
alignment repeatabil ity, and boom frequency will be measured. The deployment 
test will be repeated a minimum of five times to verify operation and alignment. 

4.3.2 ANTENNA PATTERN TESTS 


Purpose . To determine the exact location, orientation and configuration of the 
satellite antenna to satisfy the RF link performance and spatial coverage 
requirements. 

Configuration . The antenna will be mounted on a model simulating the significant 
satellite features. The test antenna will be a prototype model of the flight 
hardware. 

Test Description . The pattern tests will be conducted at the Boeing Company 
Antenna Range. The antenna will be positioned on the spacecraft model and 
rotated around two orthogonal axes to provide complete spatial coverage data. 
Radiation patterns will be measured at right hand circular polarization at the 
command and telemetry frequencies for each antenna location. Antenna directive 
gain levels referred to an isotrope will be obtained from the recorded radiation 
patterns by computer processing. 

4.3.3 COMPONENT MAGNETIC TESTS 


Purpose . To determine hard perm and soft perm of satellite components and sub- 
assemblies and assess possible levels of interference with operation of payloads 
and the satellite attitude control system. This test will be applied to items 
for which this information is otherwise unavailable and which contain significant 
magnetic materials. 

Configuration . Tests will be performed in the Magnetic Research Laboratory at 
the Boeing Kent Facility. The test item will be mounted on a nonmagnetic turn- 
table and rotated. A fluxgate magnetometer, mounted a knov/n distance from the 
table will be oriented to measure radial magnetic flux density. 

Test Description . Magnetic dipole moment will be calculated from peak-to-peak 
flux density measurements and magnetometer spacing. Moments will be determined 
along three orthogonal axes of the component. Components and assemblies will 
not be individually compensated unless computation shows an interference flux 
density limit will be exceeded (see Paragraph 4.4-2-Gfor satellite System Magnetic 
Survey) . 


DO 6000 2 143 ORIG. 4/7 ) 


407 . 

D180-18450-3 



THE COMPANY 

4.3.4 FUNCTIONAL INTEGRATION WITHOUT PAYLOADS (SPIN STABILIZED) 

Purpose . To make an orderly buildup of satellite equipment connection and veri- 
fy proper subsystem operation before installing payloads. Figure 4,3-1 shows 
the functional integration test flow. 

Configuration . The satellite will have all components installed and aligned 
except sun sensor, solar panels, ordnance and payloads. A sun sensor simulator, 
test battery and payload simulators will be installed. Components and payload 
simulators will hot be connected to the satellite wiring harness at the start of 
integration tests. 

Test Description . The satellite subsystem components will be sequentially con- 
nected to t n e wiring harness and functionally verified in the order presented 
below: 

Power Subsystem 

Prior to installation of power subsystem components, continuity, insulation 
resistance and Hi-Pot of the satellite wiring harness will have been verified 
per the engineering drawings during the manufacturing process. 

The power subsystem consists of solar panels, blocking diodes, voltage limiter, 
shunt load resistors, battery, Ampere-Hour Meter (AHM), enabling switches and 
associated relays in the relay box. All components except the solar panels, 
battery and relay box will be connected together using the satellite wire har- 
ness. A current limited 28 VDC power supply will be connected in place of the 
battery and a power and distribution test performed. Using break-in boxes at 
each power subsystem interface connector, the presence of 28 VDC on the proper 
interface connector pin, and at no others, will be verified. 

The remaining power subsystem functional integration tests will be performed 
during command subsystem functional integration testing as follows: After the 

ability to command the satellite has been established, the voltage limiter levels 
and AHM 0% and 100% state-of-charge and load disconnect enable and disable com- 
mand functions will be verified. For each command, a solar array simulator 
power supply will be used to adjust the satellite array bus voltage above the 
commanded limiting level and the limit switching verified by presence or absence 
of current into the shunt resistors which is monitored by hardline through the 
satellite test connector. The. AHM 100% state of charge enable and disable 
commands will be verified in a similar manner. The battery simulator power 
supply will then be replaced with a flight equivalent test battery which will 
be used during selected Category II tests performed prior to the satellite 
acceptance test. The ability of the power subsystem to operate properly under 
simulated solar power and battery power, including load sharing, battery charg- 
ing and bus regulation, will be verified. 

Functional integration of the solar array will be performed when the flight solar 
array panels are installed prior to the thermal vacuum test. The ability of each 
solar panel to provide voltage to the solar array bus will be verified by indi- 
vidually illuminating the solar panels with a photo flood light and verifying 
there is voltage on the solar array bus. The ability of the solar array to com- 
pletely power the satellite including battery charging and load sharing under 
simulated orbital conditions will be verified during the thermal vacuum test. 


408 

D180-18450-3 



8ES1H CATEGORY 1 TESTS 


THl 


COMPANY 



t. 


409 

D180-18450-3 


FIGURE 4.3-1: FUNCTIONAL FLOW DIAGRAM - CATEGORY I, FUNCTIONAL INTEGRATION WITHOUT PAYLOADS 





























Comnand Subsystem 


THE 


COMPANY 


Functional integration of the command subsystem will verify the ability of the 
satellite to receive, decode and respond properly to every satellite command. 

To perform this verification, all of the command subsystem components, which 
include the command receiver, decoder and timer, will be connected to the sat- 
ellite wiring harness. The relay box which interfaces with all subsystems and 
payloads will be connected to provide commanded power switching to interface 
connectors. Break-in boxes will be connected where the command subsystem inter- 
faces with other subsystems. Payload simulators will be connected to payload 
interface connectors. All satellite and payload commands will be transmitted 
from the Mobile Test Lab (MTL) and responses verified by instruments connected 
to break-in boxes and lights on the payload simulators except for the power 
subsystem commands described under Power Subsystem integration above. In, addi- 
tion, the voltage at the satellite/payload interface connectors will be verified 
to be within payload Interface Control Document specifications when the satel- 
lite bus voltage is adjusted to its low limit. 

Telemetry Subsystem 

The processor/baseband unit and tape recorder will be connected to the satellite 
wiring harness and the MTL connected to the telemetry output of the processor/ 
baseband unit. 

All telemetry subsystem command functions except payload will be verified by 
transmitting commands to the satellite from the MTL and verifying telemetry 
subsystem response at the MTL. In addition, the operation of the processor/ 
baseband unit clock and gating output timing and waveforms will be verified at 
the payload simulators, and the recorder record, playback, fast forward, track 
switching and beginning and end of tape functions will be verified by telemetry 
at the MTL. Proper recording and playback of satellite status data will be 
verified during the recorder testing. 

Analog and discrete payload telemetry channels will be stimulated individually 
at the payload simulators and monitored through a hardline connection to the 
MTL for verification of correct channel assignment. Satellite temperature sen- 
sors will be given a one-point calibration at ambient temperature. 

RF and Tracking Subsystem 

The satellite transmitter will be connected to the processor/baseband unit and 
satellite antennas. The MTL receiver will be connected to an antenna hood 
placed over a satellite antenna. Tests will be performed to verify proper RF 
and tracking subsystem performance. Both antennas will be tested for the spin- 
stabilized BSRM configuration. The tone ranging turn-around delay in the trans- 
ponder loop will be determined for each vehicle. 

Attitude Control and Determination (AC&D) Subsystem 

The AC&D subsystem for spin-stabilized BSRM consists of spin and precession 
coils, earth sensor, sun sensor, magnetometer, wobble damper and relays in the 
relay box. These components will be connected to the satellite wiring harness. 


410 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2145 ORlG. 4/71 


THE 


COMPANY 


except the wobble damper, which has no electrical connection, and the relay 
box which is already connected. A sun sensor simulator will be connected in 
place of the flight sun sensor. 

AC&D subsystem operational modes will be commanded from the MTL and the result- 
ant control action monitored as magnetic field intensity variation at the mag- 
netic torquing coils. A compass will provide an indication of polarity changes. 
Telemetry and an ammeter will be used to measure current into torquing coils to 
indicate field strength. Spin maintenance and control will be verified by stim- 
ulating the magnetometer with a simulated rotating magnetic field and command- 
ing a spin rate change through the command system. Correct commutation magni- 
tude and sense will be verified by a compass. An earth sensor stimulator will 
supply time varying infrared stimulation to the horizon sensors to simulate 
earth crossings at the satellite spin rate. Correct outputs from the horizon 
sensors will be verified through the satellite telemetry system. The sun sen- 
sor simulator will provide simulated sun presence signals. The flight sun sen- 
sor will then be installed. Proper time tagging of the sun presence signal will 
be verified and proper sun aspect angle indications will be verified via telem- 
etry at the MTL as a lamp is moved in the sun sensor field of view. 

4.3.5 SYSTEM PERFORMANCE TEST (WITHOUT PAYLOADS) 

Purpose . This test will be the first time the MTL will be used to perform auto- 
matic test sequences with the satellite. Its purpose will be to: 

a. Verify MTL operational procedures, test sequences and software for 
performing automatic tests to be used during the Category II test 
pVogram. 

b. Verify the operational status of the satellite before integrating 
the payloads with the satellite. 

Configuration . The satellite will have all satellite components installed ex- 
cept ordnance, solar panels, and thermal insulation. Simulators will be 
installed for all payloads. A test battery will be installed for the test. 

Test Description . The MTL computers will be initialized using modified system 
performance test (SPT) initial izing magnetic tapes. Automatic test sequences 
will be initiated from the MTL by transmitting commands to the satellite. Sat- 
ellite telemetry response to commands will be verified for satellite functions 
(payloads not installed) and automatically compared against programmed go/no-go 
limits by MTL software. Interrupts for manual operations at the satellite, such 
as verification of squib simulator circuit breaker operation of payload simulator 
command indicator light status, will be included. 

All command sequences to be used in Category II SPT's will be transmitted and 
those responses which can be verified without payloads installed will be veri- 
fied. The satellite timer will be run in real time and stepped through its 
output events to verify automatic timer control. 


411 

D180-18450-3 


PO 6000 2145 ORlG. 4/7 1 


THE 


COMPANY 


4.3.6 FUNCTIONAL INTEGRATION WITHOUT PAYLOADS (3-AXIS STABILIZED) 

The orderly buildup of satellite equipment connection and subsystem verifica- 
tion for 3-axis controlled BSRM will be identical to that described in para- 
graph 4.3.4 for spin-stabilized vehicles except for the AC&D subsystem tests 
discussed below. The functional flow diagram of Figure 4.3-1 is valid for 
3-axis controlled BSRM spacecraft. 

Attitude Control and Determination (AC&D) Subsystem 

The AC&D subsystem for 3-axis BSRM consists for spin and precession coils, 
inertia wheel , sun sensor, magnetometer, wobble damper and relays in the relay 
box. These components will be connected to the satellite wiring harness, ex- 
cept the wobble damper, which has no electrical connection, and the relay box 
which is already connected. A sun sensor simulator will be connected in place 
of the flight sun sensor. 

AC&D subsystem operational modes will be commanded from the MTL and the result- 
ant control action monitored as magnetic field intensity variation at the mag- 
netic torquing coils and/or inertia wheel speed response. A compass will pro- 
vide an indication of polarity changes in the magnetic coils. Telemetry and an 
ammeter will be used to measure current into torquing coils to indicate field 
strength. 

Magnetic torquing control will be verified by stimulating the magnetometer with 
a simulated magnetic field and commanding a maneuver through the command system. 
Correct commutation magnitude and sense will be verified by a compass. An earth 
sensor stimulator will supply infrared stimulation to the inertia wheel sensor 
to simulate earth crossing. 

Correct outputs from the earth sensor will be verified through the satellite 
telemetry system. The sun sensor simulator will provide simulated sun presence 
signals for overall checkout of the AC&D subsystem. The flight sun sensor will 
then be installed. Proper time tagging of the sun presence signal will be ver- 
ified and proper sun aspect angle indications will be verified via telemetry at 
the MTL as a lamp is moved in the sun sensor field of view. 


412 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2145 ORIG. 4/71 


THE 


COMPANY 


4.4 CATEGORY II TESTS 

Figures 4.4-1 through 4.4-3 show the functional flow for BSRM Category II tests 
Each BSRM satellite will be subjected to these tests except for thermal -vacuum 
which will be only run on the first BSRM. 

There will not be a specific test for physical integration since physical inter 
faces will be verified as integral parts of other tests. The interface verifi- 
cation between the satellite and slings and dollies will be verified at the 
time of their first use. 

4.4.1 Qua! ification Tests . All components used in the BSRM will be qualified 
to environmental levels greater than the most severe anticipated operational 
environment. The methods used to demonstrate and verify design margins above 
those levels will vary between components but will include one or more of the 
following: 

o Flight Proven 

o Previously Qualified 

o Similarity 

o Analysis 

The extensive use of the existing S3 subsystems eliminates the requirement for 
component qualification testing. Boeing will prepare a summary of data provid- 
ing verification that all satellite components have been qualified to the 
required environmental levels. This document will be updated as component 
vendor data is received and analyses required to support the qualification 
history and designs of equipment are completed. 

4.4.2 Demonstration Tests (Spin Stabilized) . 

4.4. 2.1 Telemetry Calibration . 

Purpose . To produce end-to-end calibration curves for each telemetry channel 
and determine the amplitude of the ambient noise. 

Configuration . The satellite will have all equipment installed except pay- 
loads, satellite ordnance, rocket motors, and thermal insulation. A test bat- 
tery will be installed. 

Test Description . Calibration voltages will be injected into the satellite 
at the interface connectors where analog signals originate. The telemetry 
calibration will consist of three tests: 

a. Three point voltage calibration test. The three point calibration test 
will be applied to the processor/baseband unit analog channel inputs 
except for channels requiring the linearity test described in "b" below. 

The voltages will be sequentially injected for each channel and the cor- 
responding octal value decommutated, displayed and recorded in the MTL. 

413 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2 * 45 ORIG. 4/7 1 


BEGINNING OF CATEGORY II TESTING 



FIGURE 4.4-1: FUNCTIONAL FLOW DIAGRAM - CATEGORY II TESTING 






























TX* 


COMPANY 



FIGURE 4.4-2: FUNCTIONAL FLOW DIAGRAM - 

CATEGORY II TESTING (CONT'D) 
























TMC 


BP com^*ny 



416 

D180-18450-3 


FIGURE 4.4-3: FUNCTIONAL FLOW DIAGRAM- 

CATEGORr II TESTING (Cont’d) 




















THE 


COMPANY 


b. Linearity Test. Two representative channels will be tested for linear- 
ity verification of the processor A to D converter with a ten point 

cal i brat ion. 

c. Analog Processing Error. A test to verify that the errors are within 
limits will be performed on two low level and two high level channels 
by injecting signals in small discrete steps from below a quantization 
level to above the next higher level (spanning three levels). The test 
will be performed using both increasing and decreasing steps. The test 
will provide data to enable a distribution curve of voltage input versus 
telemetry output to be plotted. Verification of maximum analog process- 
ing error will be made from visual inspection of the curve. 

4. 4. 2. 2 Functional Integration of Payloads . 

Purpose . To verify the satell ite/payload interfaces, and verify proper opera 
tion. 

Configuration . The satellite will have all equipment installed except satel- 
lite ordnance, rocket motors and thermal insulation. A power supply will be 
used in place of the battery. 

Test Description. Payload sensors will be installed and aligned by leveling 
the satellite using a transit or theodolites. Optical mirrors will be tempor 
arily attached to reference surfaces on sensors requiring precise alignment. 
Theodolites will then be used to check the sensor alignments with respect to 
the satellite reference axes. Precision levels will be used where possible 
for sensors with large alignment tolerances. Laminated shims will be bonded 
to sensor mounting surfaces when required to adjust sensor mounting planes 
that are out of tolerance. 

The functional integration of the payloads will be accomplished one at a time 
after all sensors have been aligned, as follows: 

a. Payload Bench Test. Each payload will be bench tested by the payload con 
tractor after arrival at Boeing to ensure proper operation. 

b. Payload Connection and Test. The payloads will be connected directly to 
the satellite wiring harness. Each payload operational command will be 
transmitted from the MTL, and proper payload response will be verified 
at the MTL through the satellite telemetry subsystem. Payloads will be 
stimulated as required by payload contractors. Strip chart recordings 
and line printer outputs of payload data will be produced at the MTL for 
payload contractor evaluation. Current to each payload will be measured 
at the main power bus as each payload is commanded ON at high, low and 
nominal voltages on the main power bus. 

4. 4. 2. 3 FI ight Simulation 

Purpose . To verify that the total satellite system will operate within spec- 
ified limits throughout a simulated flight sequence and to verify there is no 
interference between payloads during normal orbital operations. 


417 

D180-18450-3 



THE 


COMPANY 


Configuration . The satellite will have all equipment installed except the 
solar panels, satellite ordnance, and thermal insulation. A test battery 
will be installed for the test. 

Test Description . The Flight Simulation Test will be a computer controlled 
test and will include satellite simulation of initialization functions and 
simulation of selected orbital sequences. One orbital sequence will be per- 
formed with the timer running in real time. All other orbits will be per- 
formed by stepping the timer. The initialization simulation will start at 
separation and will verify occurrence of spin motor ignition signals and 
antenna boom deployment firing signals using squib simulators. The orbital 
simulation will include the following: 

a. Monitoring subsystem and payload status against pre-established limits 
and providing an "alarm" when limits are exceeded. 

b. Transmitting sequences of satellite subsystem commands and verifying 
responses. 

c. Transmitting payload cover release commands and verifying simulated 
squib firings. 

d. Commanding payload orbital operation sequencing and recording of pay- 
load data on satellite tape recorder. Payloads will be stimulated, as 
required by payload contractors. During these orbital sequences, the 
solar simulator power supply will be controlled to generate both high 
and low battery voltage conditions. 

e. Simulating ground station contact during real time payload operation 
and during satellite tape recorder dump. 

f. Recording satellite data stream on magnetic tape at the MTL during 
simulated ground station contact. Tapes will be supplied to Goddard 
Space Flight Center for training and software checkout. 

4. 4. 2. 4 Preliminary Mass Properties Test . 

Purpose . To verify analytical predictions and to insure that the satellite 
will meet weight and balance requirements at the time of the final mass prop- 
erties test without repositioning subsystem or payload components. Success 
of the preliminary mass properties test validates the configuration for sub- 
sequent system level testing. Test results will be used to verify: 

a. Satellite weight 

b. Center of Gravity (Static Balance) in the injection configuration 

c. Spin axis alignment (dynamic unbalance) in the injection configur- 
ation 

Configuration . The satellite will have all payloads and flight components 
installed except spin motors. Spin motor mass simulators will be installed. 
All deployable devices will be in their stowed positions. 

418 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2145 ORIG. 4/7 1 


THE 


COMPANY 


Test Description . 

Balance . The spin fixture will be positioned on the spin balance machine, 
balanced and aligned. The satellite will then be installed on spin fixture 
and the static and dynamic unbalance determined around the Scout booster 
mounting plane. Ballast will then be adjusted as required to obtain a static 
and dynamic balance using ballast locations available on the satellite struc- 
ture. 

Weight . The satellite will be placed on scales and the weight determined. 

The weight will be entered in the satellite weight and balance log book. 
Miscellaneous loose parts that are not installed will be weighed and also 
entered in the log. 

4.4.2. 5 Electromagnetic Compatibility 

Purpose . To verify the electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) of the satellite 
electrical equipment by demonstrating the existence of a 6 dB safety margin 
(20 dB for electro-explosive devices). 

Configuration . The EMC tests will be conducted with all equipment installed 
except the thermal blankets and satellite ordnance. A test battery will be 
used. Thermal blankets will be used during EMC tests when antennas are radi- 
ating. Breakout boxes will be installed as required for access to critical 
monitor points. 

Test Description . Compati.bil ity will be demonstrated during all modes of oper 
ation while satellite subsystem and payloads are individually or collectively 
operated under normal flight conditions. The EMC test will use two general 
approaches as follows: 

a. Augmentation: Satellite subsystems and payloads will be monitored for 

evidence of degradation in performance or improper operation, while 
equipments are operating through normal flight sequences and subjected 
to 6 dB augmented RF power density. 

b. Comparison: System EMI levels will be measured and those levels com- 

pared with the MIL-STD-461A susceptibility test levels or thresholds. 

The difference between susceptibility and measured levels is the safety 
margin. 

EMI measurements will be made with interference analyzers and transient volt- 
meters. A Fairchild FSS250 interference analyzer will be used for steady- 
state conducted and radiated measurements. A multichannel transient voltmeter 
will be employed for detection and measurement of electrical transients. 

4. 4. 2. 6 Magnetic Survey *. 

Purpose . The purposes of the satellite system magnetic survey are as follows: 

a. Compensate the hard perm magnetic dipole moments of the satellite 
along each orthogonal axis. 


419 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2145 ORfG. 4/7 1 



THE 


COM PAN Y 


b. Determine expected worst case soft perm and stray magnetic dipole 
moments along the spin axis. 

c. Calibrate the attitude control and determination (AC&D) subsystem 
magnetic torquing system and the satellite magnetometer. 

d. Determine compliance with magnetic flux density limits for each 
experiment as specified in the payload interface control documents. 

Configuration . The satellite will have all equipment installed except satel- 
lite ordnance, antenna booms and thermal insulation. A test battery will be 
installed. 

Test Description . The satellite will be placed in a nonmagnetic-holding fix- 
ture which will permit placing it on a magnetic torque table with the x, y, 
and z axes in line with an externally produced magnetic field. The magnetic 
field will be produced by Helmholz coils wound on a wood frame with dimensions 
at least twice the satellite dimensions. The magnetic torque table supporting 
the satellite will allow rotation of the table top and satellite in a horizon- 
tal plane against torsional restraint springs. The magnetic component in each 
axis will be measured by determining the oscillations produced as the coil 
fields are reversed. This reversal will also eliminate effects produced by 
ambient unidirectional fields in the test facility. A magnetic survey will be 
conducted on the nonoperating satellite and magnetic moments will be compensated 
if required. The satellite magnetic torquing fields will then be calibrated 
with the satellite operating and magnetic moments will be measured. The mag- 
netic field within the field-of-view of experiments will be surveyed to deter- 
mine compatibility with requirements. For the small flux densities of boom- 
mounted experiments, satellite field contribution will be measured by physical 
displacement of the satellite. 

4. 4. 2. 7 Resonance Search . 

Purpose . To verify that the fundamental natural frequency of each flight sat- 
ellite when attached to a rigid interface is greater than 100 Hz in the axial 
direction and 20 Hz in the lateral direction. 

Configuration . The satellite will have all equipment installed except ordnance. 
Spin motors will be mass simulated. Thermal blanket installation will be op- 
tional. 

Test Description . The satellite will be mounted on a shaker table and subject- 
ed to a low level sine vibration sweep test from 10 Hz to 200 Hz in each axis. 
Sweep rate will be one octave per minute, and input will be controlled to limit 
the maximum response at major resonances to 2.0 g's. Accelerometers will be 
installed at selected locations to measure responses and identify resonances. 

4. 4. 2. 8 Acoustic Vibration . 

Purpose . To verify that all satellite subsystems and payloads function prop- 
erly after each satellite has been subjected to 3 dB above maximum expected 
boost acoustic environment. 


420 

D180-18450-3 



THE 


COMPANY 


Configuration . The configuration will be the same as for Resonance Search. 

Test Description . The satellite, supported by an acoustic test fixture, will 
be installed in a reverberant test chamber and subjected to the maximum expect- 
ed boost acoustic environment for 1 minute. Microphone data will be obtained 
to verify test input levels. A visual inspection and system performance test 
will then be accomplished to verify no system degradation. 

4.4. 2. 9 System Performance Test (SPT) . 

Purpose . To provide verification that the satellite has successfully completed 
an environmental demonstration test without degradation to satellite components 
and subsystems. 

Configuration . Several SPT's will be performed during the test program.. The 
configuration of the satellite during each SPT will be the same as for the test 
immediately preceeding it. The configuration will be recorded in test documen- 
tation each time the SPT is performed. 

Test Description . The SPT will use the same test sequence as the flight simu- 
lation test described in paragraph 4.3 except the timer will be stepped through 
all its output functions to conserve test time. The satellite will remain at 
each timer step only long enough to verify occurrence of the timed function and 
to transmit and verify proper response to selected command sequences. Telem- 
etry response will be automatically verified by the MTL software programs with 
automatic interrupts for manual verification or out-of-tolerance telemetry data. 

4.4.2.10 Separation/Deployment Shock Test . 

Purpose . To verify that no functional degradation of payloads and equipment 
result from exposure to the pyrotechnic shock events. 

Configuration . The test configuration will consist of the satellite with flight 
payloads and equipment components installed. Mass simulated spin motors and 
thermal blanket installation will be optional. 

Test Description . The satellite will be installed on a test fixture and the 
following separation/deployment ordnance will be fired one time: 

a. Yo-yo despin (pin pullers) 

b. Satellite ejection (V-band clamp) 

c. Solar array deployment (pin pullers) 

d. Antenna boom deployment (pin pullers) 

A satellite System Performance Test will then be run to verify no system degra- 
dation. 


421 

D180-18450-3 


THE 


COMPANY 


4.4.2.11 Solar Thermal Vacuum Test (First Satellite Only) . Figure 4.4-4 shows 
the solar thermal vacuum test functional flow. 

Purpose . A solar thermal vacuum test will be performed on the first spin sta- 
bilized and 3-axis stabilized BSRM satellites to verify thermal control subsys- 
tem design and to provide mathematical model data for flight temperature predic- 
tions for all BSRM satellites. 

Configuration . BSRM flight satellite, complete with flight payloads except the 
following flight hardware will not be installed. 

a. Spin and despin motors 

b. Magnetometer boom 

c. Satellite antenna booms 

d. Satellite squibs 

Test Description . The satellite will be instrumented with temperature trans- 
ducers and installed on a test fixture in the thermal vacuum chamber. Instru- 
mentation, control and data lines will be connected to the test fixture slip 
rings and routed through the chamber walls and to the AGE, MTL and data process- 
ing facilities. The computer/instrumentation interface will then be calibrated 
and an SPT willbe performed to verify satellite operation in the chamber with 
command, control and monitor through chamber cabling and test fixture slip rings. 
The chamber will be pumped down and the satellite tested in a simulated earth- 
orbital environment. Pressure will be 10~ 5 torr or less. Solar heating, earth 
albedo, earth emission, and a space-sink temperature will be simulated to repro- 
duce, as nearly as possible, the orbital radiation environment. Periods of 
solar occultation will be simulated by turning off the solar beam. The satel- 
lite will be tested in each of the following orbital environments: 

a. Noon-midnight orbit 

b. Terminator orbit 

The satellite will be operated for 10 orbits in the sequence of events in each 
of the two orbital environments. During the sequence, the payloads will be 
operated for one full orbit. 

Satellite commands and telemetry data receiving and processing will be provided 
by the MTL with additional satellite control and monitor functions provided by 
electrical AGE connected through the test fixture slip rings and satellite test 
connector. 

Temperature-transducers mounted on payloads and subsystem components will be 
monitored and recorded during the entire test sequence including pumpdown and 
repressurization. 

A computerized model of the thermal vacuum test will be developed and used in 
detailed test planning and design. The model will also provide pretest temper- 
ature predictions. These predictions will be compared with test measurements, 

422 

D180- 18450-3 


DO 6000 2 1 45 ORIG. 4/7 



THE 


COMPANY 



423 


D180-18450-3 


FIGURE 4.4-4: FUNCTIONAL FLOW DIAGRAM - CATEGORY II, 

THERMAL-VAC S STDN COMPATABILITY TESTING 

































THE 


COMPANY 


and discrepancies, if any, will be analyzed. The model will be improved and 
agreement between prediction and test will be verified. 

Power subsystem current and voltage data will be recorded during orbital simu- 
lation runs and solar array output derived. This data will be used to deter- 
mine the average output power. 

Main bus voltage will be monitored to ensure that it stays within limits (24.5 
to 32 volts for normal orbital operation), subject to correction for off-nominal 
test conditions. 

4.4.2.12 5TDN Compatibility (First Satellite Only) . 

Purpose . To verify that the satellite has the ability to receive RF commands 
from ground stations and that STON can receive satellite transmitted data and 
decode it properly. 

Configuration . The satellite will have all equipment installed except ordnance 
and thermal insulation. Solar panel installation will be optional. The satel- 
lite will be powered by a power supply during test. The test battery will not 
be installed. 

Test Description . The compatibility tests will consist of three parts: RF 

Acquisition, Command Verification and Orbital Contact Simulation. All tests 
will be under the direction of the Boeing Test Conductor who will be located 
with the satellite. The RF acquisition involves the MTL and satellite located 
at the test facility, and the NASA ground station at TBD. The satellite trans- 
mitter and receiver are connected to the test site antenna and sample signals 
are transmitted for signal strength adjustment to give reliable satellite sig- 
nal reception for the remainder of the tests. Command signals are in turn 
received and the level is adjusted for proper signal strength to the satellite 
command receiver. 

The second test, command verification, is used to verify that the satellite 
will respond to real time commands. Only selected samples of magnitude com- 
mands will be sent during the test. The MTL will be used to verify each com- 
mand is received correctly and the satellite responds correctly. While the 
command verification tests are being conducted, the ground station will verify 
proper receipt of the word replica from the satellite telemetry system and the 
valid or invalid discrete as applicable. 

The final set of tests will simulate an orbital contact and will exercise the 
satellite in the following operational modes to assure compatibility: 

a. Receive Commands - Transmit 16 Kbps data. 

b. Receive Commands - Transmit 16 and 131 Kbps data. 

c. Receive Commands - Transmit 16 Kbps data and wide band data. 


424 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2148 ORIS. 4/7 1 


THE 


COMPANY 


d. Receive Commands and Tracking Signal - Transmit 16 and 131 Kbps or wide 
band data and tracking tone. 

e. With processor shut down, receive and transmit tracking tone. 

During the various combinations of tests, the satellite subsystems and payloads 
will be operated wherever possible in their orbital mode. All commands to the 
satellite will be sent on direction of the Boeing Test Conductor. The MTL will 
be used to monitor and verify satisfactory operation of the satellite and the 
ground station will confirm satisfactory reception and decommutation of the 
satellite telemetry signal. At the same time, the ground station will verify 
their program for their various data reduction modes. Magnetic tapes of the 
test data will be prepared which will be available for later exercising of soft- 
ware. 

4.4.2.13 Deployment Tests . 

a. Boom Deployment . 

Purpose . To verify deployment time and rotational force margin, and antenna 
alignment following deployment. 

Configuration . The test configuration will consist of the satellite with 
flight payloads and equipment components installed. Mass simulated spin motors 
and thermal blanket installation will be optional. 

Test Description . The satell ite will be installed on the deployment separation 
test fixture with the antenna boom supported by a spring-cable counterbalance 
system to simulate zero-g condition. Alignment in the deployed position will 
be adjusted to the specified tolerances prior to deployment testing. The 
antenna release mechanism will be mechanically initiated. Functional operation 
of the boom deployment springs and stops will be verified. Deployment spring 
margins and antenna alignment repeatability will be measured. The test will be 
performed a minimum of two times to verify repeatability. 

b. Solar Array Deployment . 

Purpose . To verify deployment force margin, deployment time and alignment with 
satell ite axis following deployment. 

Configuration . The test configuration will consist of the satellite with flight 
payloads and equipment components installed. Mass simulated spin motors and 
thermal blanket installation will be optional. 

Test Description . The satellite will be installed in the deployment separation 
test fixture with the array supported by a spring-cable counter-balance system 
to simulate zero-g conditions. Alignment in the deployed position will be 
adjusted to specified tolerances prior to deployment testing. The array will 
be mechanically released. Functional operation, deployment springs, and stops 
will be verified. The test will be performed a minimum of two times to verify 
repeatability and alignment. 


425 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2146 ORIG. 4/7 1 



THE 


COMPANY 


4.4.2.14 Final Mass Properties Test . 

Purpose . To perform the final balance adjustment and verify by analysis that 
the satellite mass properties will meet the requirements for all flight condi- 
tions. Test data will be used to verify: 

a. Satellite weight. 

b. Center of gravity (static balance) in the injection and on-orbit con- 
figurations. 

c. Spin axis alignment (dynamic unbalance) in the injection and on-orbit 
configurations. 

d. Moment of inertia (MOI) about two orthogonal axes. 

Configuration . The satellite will have all payloads and flight components 
installed except spin motors which will be mass simulated. All deployable 
devices will be in their stowed positions. 

Test Description . The spin fixture will be installed on the spin balance 
machine, balanced and aligned. The satellite will be installed on the spin 
fixture and the static and dynamic unbalance about the required axes will be 
determined. Ballast and trim weights will be adjusted to obtain static and 
dynamic balance using ballast locations available on the satellite structure. 

a. Injection MOI 

The satellite and spin fixture will be transferred to an MOI machine and the 
period of oscillation measured. The satellite will be removed from the fixture 
and the period of oscillation of the fixture will be measured. Satellite 
moment of inertia will then be calculated. 

b. Transverse MOI 

Satellite MOI in one transverse axis will be determined in the same manner as 
for injection MOI. 

c. Weight 

The satellite will be placed on scales and the weight, determined and entered in 
the satellite weight and balance log book. Miscellaneous loose parts, such as 
EED's, that are not installed will be weighed and entered in the satellite 
weight and balance log. 

4.4.3 DEMONSTRATION TESTS (3-AXIS STABILIZED) 

The 3-axis stabilized BSRM will be subjected to the identical Category II test 
program defined in Figures 4.4-1 through 4.4-3 for the spin-stabilized vehicle. 
Changes in test procedures will be incorporated to account for the different 
AC&D subsystem hardware and associated satellite operation. Acceptance testing 


426 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2145 ORIG. 4/71 


THE 


COMPANY 


will also be identical for each unit. Thermal vacuum testing will be conducted 
on the first 3-axis stabilized vehicle to verify differences in thermal control 
between the 3-axis and spin stabilized configurations. 

4.4.4 ACCEPTANCE TEST 


Purpose . To verify that all performance and configuration requirements are 
satisfied before delivery to the customer. 

Configuration . The satellite will be complete including payloads except for 
satellite ordnance. 

Test Description . Before starting final satellite acceptance testing, all dis- 
crepancies that occurred during previous testing will be resolved and all result 
ing retesting will have been completed. Satellite and payload sensors with 
critical alignment requirement including magnetometer, sun and earth sensors, 
will have been rechecked with respect to the satellite reference axes. Realign- 
ment will have been made where necessary to meet the requirements. The accept- 
ance test will include a simulated flight which will be essentially the same as 
the flight simulation described in paragraph 4. 4. 2. 3. Additional tests such as 
ordnance safing, RF power output, battery trickle charging and tape recorder 
storage capacity tests will be performed. 

The following tests will be performed to verify satellite aliveness: 

a. Aliveness of solar panels will be verified by individually illuminating 
each panel and verifying presence of voltage on the solar array bus. 

b. Sun sensor aliveness will be verified by providing a trigger pulse, 
illuminating the sun sensor and verifying a sun presence signal on 
telemetry. 

c. Earth sensor aliveness will be verified by stimulating the sensor with 
a warm radiating body and observing earth sensor output polarity on 
telemetry. 

d. Magnetometer output level switching will be verified by stimulating the 
magnetometer test coils with a function generator and verifying corre- 
sponding magnetometer output levels on telemetry. 

During the acceptance test, housekeeping data will be monitored at the MTL to 
verify that the subsystems are operating within tolerance limits. After com- 
pletion of the test, the satellite/payload safing plug will be installed and 
the battery charged using a trickle charger. The satellite will then be 
shipped to the launch site. 


427 

D180- 18450-3 


DO 6000 2 145 ORlG. 4/7 1 



THI 


COMPANY 


5.0 EMC CONTROL PLAN 


This 01 an describes Contractor's approach to control electrical and electronic 
interference, thus ensuring electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) in the BSRM program. 
It is intended to provide the EMC design criteria and program implementation as re- 
quired by the Statement of Work. 

The governing specification for the BSRM program EMC is MI L-E-6051 D of which 
paragraph 3.3 is used in the preparation of this plan. The performance limits and 
requirements shall be defined for equipment by MIL-STD-461A and the electrical 
bonding requirements shall be defined by MIL-B-5087B. The establishment of a 6 dB 
safety margin for all satellite and payload equipments in Category I and II and a 
20 dB safety margin for all Electroexplosive Devices (EED/s) is specified. 

Interference control shall be implemented through proper design and subsequently 
verified through analysis and test. The Boeing Company shall analyze and assess 
the MIL-STD-461A test procedures and results for all BSRM electrical/electronic 
packages. The assessment will result in a determination of data applicability to 
system integration EMC control. EMI data deficiencies shall be identified to the 
customer with recommended action. 

Interference control verification and the associated EMC demonstration shall be 
accomplished with the BSRM system EMC test. The test will be conducted on each 
deliverable satellite. 

5.1 REFERENCES 


The following documents, drawings, standards and specifications shall form a part 
of this control plan to the extent specified herein. 

(a.) MIL-E-6051D, Military Specification Electromagnetic Compatibility 
Requirements Systems, dated 7 September 1967. 

(b.) MIL-STD-461A, Military Standard Electromagnetic Interference 

Characteristics, Requirements for Equipment, dated 1 August 1968, 
and subsequent Notices 1 , 2, and 3. 

(c.) MIL-STD-462, Military Standard Electromagnetic Interference 
Characteristics, Measurement of, dated 31 July 1966, and 
subsequent Notices 1 and 2. 

(d.) MIL-B-5087B (AS6), Military Specification Bonding, Electrical, 

and Lightning Protection, for Aerospace Systems, dated 
15 October 1964, and Amendment -1, dated 6 February 1968. 

(e.) AFMTC 80-2, PAMPHLET VOLUME I, General Range Safety Plan, 
dated 1 October 1963. 


501 

D180- 18450-3 


DO 6000 2145 ORlG. 4/7 1 



THE 


COMP AMY 


(f.) MIL-STD-833 (USAF), Military Standard Minimization of Hazards 
of Electromagnetic Radiation to Electroexplosive Devices, 
dated 31 July 1963. 

(g.) MIL-STD-454C, Military Standard General Requirements for 
Electronic Equipment, Requirement 1, dated 29 May 1969. 

5.2 EMC ORGANIZATION AND TASKS 


The EMC organization for the BSRM program shall be composed of engineers from the 
Electronics Technology EMC staff. Personnel of the EMC staff have experience on 
past Burner II and STP programs, in addition to having a wide range of experience 
in the EMI/EMC field. Each of these engineers will have the range of experience 
required for his specific task assignment. 

The EMC organization will be supported by technicians from the electronics develop- 
ment shop. Technicians assigned to support BSRM will have the skills required for 
the operation of special EMI measurement instrumentation and will have experience 
in EMI/EMC test conduct. 

The EMC tasks for the BSRM program have been summarized and presented in the 
following paragraphs. Tasks that are the responsibility of GFE personnel will be 
so designated and all others not so identified as to be performed by the contractor. 
These tasks are based on satisfying the specific requirements of the applicable 
military and governmental specifications for EMI and EMC requirements. 

5.2.1 MEETING SUPPORT AND PARTICIPATION 

(a.) Preliminary Design Reviews 

(b.) Critical Design Reviews 

(c.) Technical Interchange Meetings 

(d.) EMC Board Meetings 

(e.) Acceptance Reviews 

(f.) Technical Design Reviews 

5.2.2 ANALYSES 

(a.) Conduct EMC analysis on the total system. The analysis will 
cover the following items:. Grounding; RF compatibility, 
spacecraft electrical interfaces, spacecraft/AGE interfaces 
and launch environments. 

(b.) Conduct analysis as required to assess impact of proposed 
revisions to specification requirements. 

5.2.3 DESIGN SUPPORT AND REVIEW 


(a.) Review and consult on grounding, shielding, bonding, wiring, 
and filtering for Boeing and vendor design. 

(b.) Identify areas of noncompliance with EMI control requirements 
and initiate appropriate corrective action. 

502 


D180-18450-3 



THE 


COMPANY 


(c.) Review and approve vendor and experimenter EMI control plans, 
test plans, and test reports. 

(d.) Review and approve interfacing wiring drawings and control 
documents with regard to EMI and EMC requirements. 

(e.) Coordinate and assist in information exchange with Experiment 
contractors on EMC testing and integration. 

(f.) Coordinate and assist in technical interchange with vendors 
regarding EMC design and testing. 

5.2.4 DOCUMENTATION PREPARATION 

(a.) Update and maintain the Electromagnetic Compatibility Plan. 

(b.) Prepare EMC Analysis Report. 

(c.) Prepare EMI Test Plans and Procedures and Test Reports for 
Boeing built equipment. 

(d.) Prepare EMC Test Plans and Procedures and Test Reports for 
the system. 

5.2.5 TEST CONDUCT AND SUPPORT 

(a.) Conduct EMI tests on Boeing built equipment. 

(b.) Conduct EMC tests on system. 

(c.) Conduct engineering evaluation tests as required to support 
EMC design. 

(d.) Monitor vendor EMI test conduct and facilities as required. 

5.3 EMC BOARD 

An Electromagnetic Compatibility Board (EMCB) shall be established to govern all 
aspects of system EMI and EMC. The provisions of MIL -E-6051 D , paragraph 3.1.1, 
shall apply as interpreted herein. 

The permanent members of the EMCB shall be as follows: 

(a.) System Integration Manager - Boeing 
(b.) Technical Staff Manager - Boeing 
(c.) Customer Representative 
(d.) Engineering Design Managers (As Required) 

Temporary members may be in attendance as requested by the Board to support Board 
functions. Payload contractor representatives: shal 1 be invited as required. The 
EMC Board shall be chaired by Boeing and co-chaired by the Customer. 


503 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2145 OHIO. 4/7 1 



THE 


COMPANY 


The EMCB shall have the direct responsibility for resolving and conflicts between 
the requirements delineated in this plan and other program design requirements. 

All requests for deviations from the established baseline EMI requirements shall 
be documented by the requesting agency and presented at a fully-authorized meeting 
of the EMCB. The deviation requests and approvals shall be numbered consecutively 
as they are received, for proper identification. Approval of baseline EMI devi- 
ation does not constitude approval of deviation from the 6 dB EMI Safety Margin 
requirements. 

The EMCB shall meet at PDR, CIDR and hold additional meetings as required. 

5.4 EMI TESTS 


These tests to be performed at the equipment/subsystem level will verify the ade- 
quacy of interference control and suppression inherent in the various equipment 
items ds designed. Laboratory test data will substantiate and supplement EMI 
analytical results. Both will be used in the planning stages of the system EMC 
tests. The specific application of a particular MIL-STD-461A test for the BSRM 
systems will be defined after program go-ahead. 

EMI tests will be performed on qualification units where these units are built for 
other qualification tests. For equipment that is to be qualified by similarity 
except, for EMI, the EMI tests may be performed on flight hardware provided that 
internal components are selected to Withstand MIL-STD-461A test levels without 
damage. 

5.5 EMC TESTS 


These tests will be performed at the satellite system level on an integrated 
system in accordance with requirements of MIL-E-6051D. The test will verify the 
6 dB margin of safety at critical points in the satellite system. Tests will be 
performed on all satellite configurations. The subsystems, equipments, and 
experiments shall have been tested to the requirements of an EMI specification 
and the test data results available to Boeing prior to system EMC test. 

A surranary of equipment EMC status and evaluation shall be prepared. The completed 
evaluation sheets will be included in the EMC Analysis Report. Where deviations 
are required, the evaluation sheets will be submitted to the EMCB for resolution. 

5.6 DESIGN REQUIREMENTS 


The design requirements and constraints detailed herein are established to ensure 
electromagnetic compatibility for the BSRM. The requirements apply to all Boeing 
equipment, vendor equipment and payload contractor equipment. These requirements 
shall be implemented by closely coordinated design monitoring. 

The Boeing EMC personnel shall review designs of Boeing units, vendor units, and 
Government furnished experiments to identify potential EMC problems early in the 
program time flow for facile implementation of required corrective action. 

The criteria specified below is in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs 
3.2.2 through 3.2.14 of MIL-E-6051D. 


DO 6000 2145 ORIC. 4/7 1 


'504 

D180-18450-3 



THE 


COMPANY 


5.6.1 SUBSYSTEM/EQUIPMENT CRITERIA CRITICALITY 


The subsystems/equipments for the BSRM have been divided into three criticality 
categories, as requested by paragraph 3.2.2 of MIL-E-6051D. 

5. 6. 1.1 Category 1 Equipment . The definition of Category 1 equipment is: "EMC 
problems that could result in loss of life, loss of vehicle, mission abort, costly 
delays in launch, or unacceptable reduction in systems effectiveness." The 
following are to be grouped in Category 1 equipment: 

(a.) Processor, PCM 
(b.) Command Decoder 
(c.) Relay Box 
(d. ) Earth Sensor 
(e.) Magnetometer 
(f.) Timer 

(g.) Receiver/Pemodulator 

(h.) Tape Recorder 

(i.) Baseband Assembly Unit 

(j . ) Voltage Limiter 

(k. ) Sun Sensor 

(1.) Transmitter 

(m.) Amp-Hour Meter 

(n.) Ordnance (EED's & Motors) 

(o.) Experiments 

5. 6. 1.2 Category II Equipment . The definition of Category II equipment is: "EMC 
problems that could result in injury, damage to vehicle, or reduction in system 
effectiveness that would endanger success of mission." The following are grouped 
as Category II equipment: 

(a. ) Test Data Van 
(b.) Magnetometer Field Simulator 
(c.) Payload Electrical Simulators 
(d.) Command & Control Test Set (CCTS) 

5. 6. 1.3 Category III Equipment . The definition of Category III equipment is: 

"EMC problems that result only in annoyance, minor discomfort, or loss of per- 
formance that does not reduce desired system effectiveness." The following are 
grouped as Category III equipment. 

(a.) Squib Simulator and Ordnance Test Set 
(b.) Earth Sensor Stimulator 
(c.) Sun Sensor Stimulator 

5.6.2 DEGRADATION CRITERIA 

The degradation criteria shall be established for each subsystem/ equipment/ 
experiment. In establishing this criteria, emphasis shall be placed on those 
functions where EMC problems could compromise primary mission objectives. These 
criteria shall be used to define and evaluate malfunctions, and unacceptable and 
undesirable responses. When available, the results of subsystem/ equipment 

505 

0180 - 18450-3 


6000 2 MS ORIG. 4/7 1 



THE 


COMPANY 


laboratory EMI tests shall be used in establishing or defining the degradation 
criteria. The definitions of malfunction, unacceptable response, and undesirable 
response shall be as stated in paragraph 6.2 of MIL-E-6051D. The specific cri- 
teria shall be presented in the EMC test plan for the BSRM program. 

5.6.3 INTERFERENCE SUSCEPTIBILITY AND CONTROL 


Interference generation and susceptibility within the system shall be controlled 
by design provisions. This shall include, but not be limited to, elimination of 
undesired responses and emissions from all subsystems and equipment. 

Subsystems/equipment shall be designed to meet the requirements of MIL-STD-461 A, 
as required by paragraph 3. 2.4.1 of MI L-E-6051 D . EMI test conduct and setup 
shall be in accordance with the provisions of MIL-STD-462. 

5. 6. 3.1 Interference Generation . It shall be a system requirement to generate a 
minimum amount of electromagnetic interference commensurate with the system opera- 
tional technical requirements. Interface driving circuits shall have strict rise 
and fall time control to minimize the contribution of undesired signals to adjacent 
wires and circuits. Impulsive noise sources such as relays and relay contacts 
shall be suppressed. Sepcial emission control shall be in force on the spacecraft 
transmitter. 

The application of MIL-STD-461A upon all equipment items, whether made or purchased 
provides a measure of control on undesired interference emanations. Vendor control 
plans and test plans will be reviewed to ensure that proper and adequate controls 
are being utilized and that proper test methods are being used to provide design 
verification. 

5. 6. 3. 2 Susceptibility Control . It shall be a system requirement that suscepti- 
bility thresholds be a minimum of 6 dB above the level required to cause sufficient 
circuit, component, or equipment degradation that will perturb system operation. 

The initial effort in examining and controlling susceptibility is the application 
of MIL-STD-461A upon all satellite equipment. With the importance of weight in 
spacecraft fabrication, susceptibility shall first be controlled to the largest 
possible extent by electrical/electronic design and then by the techniques of 
shielding or physical isolation from interference sources. 

5.6.4 WIRING AND CABLE DESIGN 


In accordance with the requirements of paragraph 3.2.5 of MIL-E-6051D, procedures 
are herein established by which the various electrical conductors shall be placed 
in categories. The general determination of placement is based on the type of 
signal carried and thus the interference or susceptibility characteristics are 
predictable. 

Categories of signal or power carrying wires are established as follows: 

CATEGORY CIRCUIT TYPE 1 DESCRIPTION 

1 Alternating Current Power 

2 Direct Current Power 


DO 6000 2148 ORIG. 4/7* 


506 

D180-18450-3 



the 


COMPANY 


CATEGORY CIRCUIT TYPE 1 DESCRIPTION 


3 

4 

5 

6 
7 


Discrete Command Signals 
Digital Data and Signals 
Analog Data and Signals 
Radio Frequency and Video Signals 
EED Initiation Power 


Table 5.6-1 is the tabulation of the categories and subcategories that may be 
found in the BSRM wiring design. 

5.6.4. 1 Cable Internal Shielding . Where conductors carrying signal or power must 
be routed within the same physical cable, extreme caution must be exercised in the 
use of shielding to prevent degrading crosstalk or mutual interference from occur- 
ring. Table 5.6-2 presents a matrix of precautionary constraints that must be 
employed for cable internal shielding practice. 

5.6.4. 2 Cable Overall Shielding Rules . The following shielding rules define which 
cables require shielding and how the shields are to be grounded. 

RULE 1: All analog signal cables feeding wideband (DC to 100 KHz) receiver 

circuits, such as analog to digital converters, high gain ampli- 
fiers, etc., shall have an overall shield. Analog signal cables 
feeding narrowband (DC to 100 Hz) receiver circuits such as 
D'Arsonval meters do not require shielding. 

RULE 2: All digital signal cables feeding transient sensitive electronics 

shall have an overall shield. 

RULE 3: All excitation power and measuring power cables shall have an 

overall shield. 

RULE 4: All video signals shall be routed in coaxial or shielded cables. 

RULE 5: All RF signal cables shall be braided coaxial as a minimum; 

triaxial cable or solid outer conductor may be required in 
special cases. 

RULE 6: Magnetic shielding is not required on any known circuit. 

RULE 7: All shields shall be multiple grounded to chassis except shields 

of instrumentation circuits of 10 millivolts or less full scale, 
which shall be singly grounded at the end where the circuit is 
grounded. 

RULE 8: All EED initiation power shall be routed in cables and bundles 

that contain no other signal or power wiring of any sort. 

5.7 ELECTRICAL POWER 


The overall system requirement to ensure EMC is that the EMI on the power bus 
shall be at a level that is at least 6 dB below the level that will cause 


6000 2 146 ORIG. 4/7 1 


507 

D180-18450-3 



THE 


COMPANY 



TABLE 5.6-1 - POWER AND SIGNAL GROUPS 


SUBGROUP 

CIRCUIT TYPE/DESCRIPTION 

1 

GROUP 1 - AC POWER 

1.1 

AC Excitation 


GROUP 2 - DC POWER 

2.1 

Single Ended, > 5V, Positive or Negative DC 


2.2 

Single Ended, >-5V, Positive and Negative DC 


2.3 

DC Measuring and Excitation, Source Grounded 


GROUP 3 - DISCRETE SIGNALS 

3.1 

28 V, Mechanical Switch, Relay, Single Discrete 


3.2 

28V, Mechanical Switch, Relay, Multiple Discretes 


3.3 

5V, Mechanical Switch, Semi-Conductor Load, 
Single Discrete 


3.4 

5V, Mechanical Switch, Semi-Conductor Load, 
Multiple Discretes 


GROUP 4 - DIGITAL SIGNALS 

4.1 

Parallel, Risetime >1 Microsecond 


4.2 

Parallel, Risetime <1 Microsecond 


4.3 

Serial, Risetime >1 Microsecond 


4.4 

Serial, Risetime 1 Microsecond 


4.5 

Serial, Logic Level Change > 20V 





508 

D180-18450-3 


no Anno 5 us o rig 4/7 i 












THE 


COMPANY 


TABLE 5.6-1 (Continued) 


| SUBGROUP 

CIRCUIT TYPE/DESCRIPTION 

GROUP 5 - ANALOG SIGNALS 

5.1 

0 - 5V, Balanced, Wideband, Single Analog 

5.2 

0-5 V, Unbalanced, Wideband Single Analog 

5.3 

0 - 5V, Balanced, D'Arsonval Type, Single Analog 

5.4 

0 - 5V, Unbalanced, D'Arsonval Type, Single Analog 

5.5 

0 - 5V, Balanced, Wideband, Multiple Analogs . 

5.6 

0 - 5V, Unbalanced, Wideband, Multiple Analogs 

5.7 

0 - 5V, Balanced, D'Arsonval Type, Multiple Analogs 

5.8 

0 - 5V, Unbalanced, D'Arsonval Type, Multiple 
Analogs 

GROUP 6 - RF AND VIDEO SIGNALS 

6.1 

Video, 100 KC, Double Grounded 

6.2 

Video, 100 KC, Balanced 

6.3 

RF, 100 KC, Single Ended 

GROUP 7 - EED INITIATION 

7.1 

28V, Electroexplosive Device Initiation 


.509 

D180- 18450-3 


DO 6000 2 14B ORIG. 4/7 1 










TMK 


COMPANY 




, — ^ 

a 

QC 


co 

Z LU 

Lol 



O 1— 

3 


_J LU 

>— ZD 

O' UJO 

a: lu cc 

K<h 

1 — o 

LUCOQ. 

LU CO o 

LU Z LU 

< C£ 

z 

z 

z cd cc 

M 

f- o z 

1 - o z 

h“ f — 1 O 

! — LU 

>-1 V- o 

>-» »— o 

1— < LO CO 

>-< oo 

LU i— < 

LU i— i 

LU •— i 

z 


zai- 

LU <C 


Z CC 


1 — 
< 


ZUiQ 


CD 


00 


«ac 
a; 
( — 
to 
z 
o 
o 


05 

n 

CO 

LlJ 

Q 

03 
z 
» — • 
Q 


CO 

I 

CM 

I 

CO 

• 

cn 


OQ 

<C 


rH 

AC 

POWER* 

SHIELD 

AC 

EXCITATION 

ONLY 


LEGEND 

TION -SHIELI 
E ONLY AC POI 
D IS AC Excr 

TION - SHIEL 
E ONLY DC POI 
D IS DC EXCT 

ACIIDTMC DftUr 

(3> EXCEPTION - SHIELI 
IF THE ONLY DISCR 
TO BE CABLED IS 51 
SIGNAL(S) 

crDrn: EXCEPTION - NO EEI 

•ciiSn CIRCUIT WIRING SHJ 

WITH ANY OTHER WI 

.NTS 

CVJ 

DC 

POWER* 



SHIELD AC & 

DC EXCITATION 
& DC MEASUR- 
ING ONLY 

SHIELD DC 
EXCITATION 
& MEASURING 
POWER ONLY 

Q. Z U 
LU t— _ 

o a 

X LL. < 

Ul we 

A 

J CL Z LU U 

J LU J— _l 2 

3 O 0Q 

C X Ll < c 

J LU ft O C 

A 

CO 

DISCRETE 

SIGNALS* 

SHIELD 5V 
DISCRETES & 

AC EXCITATION 
ONLY 

SHIELD 5V 
DISCRETES & 

DC EXCITATION 
& MEASURING 
POWER ONLY 

SHIELD 5V 
DISCRETES 
ONLY 




^s- 

DIGITAL 

SIGNALS 

SHIELD BOTH 

a> 

SHIELD BOTH 

’ 

- - 

SHIELD BOTH 

SHIELD 

5V 

DIGITALS 

ONLY 


D<m 

co 

O LU Z 
ZCStf 

«c «c c2 
1 — 

cc co 

LU f— U_ 
3 •— < LL. 
O ID O 
CL. C_> \ 

cc z 
O *— 1 O 

o o 

LU 

O _J >• 
Z <£ < 

< z z 

CD _ 
(JhO 

< <o (— 
* 

LO 

ANALOG 

SIGNALS 

SHIELD BOTH 

SHIELD BOTH 

(£> 

' 

SHIELD BOTH 

g> 

SHIELD 

ANALOG 

ONLY 

NO SPECIAL 

SHIELDING 

REQUIRED 







1 — 




—I 


_l 

—i 

1 z 




<C CD 

<C CD 

<C CD 

< CD 

Ll. Z LU 

—J 


co 

•— < Z Q 

•—•ZD 

•— • Z Q 

•— i Z O 

c-i CO O S 

<t CD 


O — 1 

UM UJ 

O *— < LU 

O >-* UJ 

Um UJ 

o l— l CO LU 

•-< Z O 

CO 


UJ Q CC 

uoa: 

LU O CC 

lu a cc 

>- LU Q£ 

UmLJ 


<C LU Z 

a-jH 

CL. — 1 •— * 

Q 1 »— * 

Q 1 •— < 

J 3 CO < O 

lu o cc 


Q 03 

CO LU ZD 

CO LU D 

CO LU ZD 

CO LU D 

z jo- se 

O 1 W 


LU ^ 

►-! O' 

•-< O 

l-H O' 

—• O' 

O LU J o 

CO LU ZD 


o: >■ co 

O Z LU 

O Z LU 

O Z LU 

O Z LU 

*— i <c — 1 

*- < O' 



zooa: 

Z CO CC 

Z CO CC 

zioa 

x z z o c 

OZUi 







OCO«£)-> 

Z CO cc 





P" 1 " sir * 








t— CO 

-J uo 

CO 

CO 



* 

* 

LU _U 

C —1 

CD -J 

-J 

a. 


Q£ 

CC 

OC < 

i- < 

o < 

o <t 

z> 


LU 

LU 

o z 

HH 22 

— 1 z 

O0LUZ 

o 


3 

3 

CO CD 

CD CD 

<C CD 

O CD 

oi 


CJ o 

O O 

l-H *-H 

l-H M 

Z f— 

u» *— • t— * 

CD 


<C o. 

Q O- 

a co. 

a co 

< CO 

« > CO 


Q. 
















o 


CM 

CO 


LO 

VO 


CC 








CD 








510 

D180-18450-3 


THE 


COMPANY 


malfunction, degradation of performance or unacceptable response exhibited by the 
particular equipment supplied with the prime power. The transient power surge and 
the power line ripple level limitations that each equipment item shall withstand is 
shown in Figures 5.7-1, 5.7-2, and 5.7-3. In addition, the requirements MIL-STD- 
461A shall apply. 

5.8 GROUNDING AND BONDING 


The BSRM system and equipment shall comply with the grounding and referencing design 
constraints contained herein. There are four categories of ground or referencing 
connections to be utilized: 

(a.) Power Reference 

(b.) Signal Reference i 

(c.) Command Reference i 

(d.) Shield Reference 

The single point ground concept will be used for the BSRM. 

5.8.1 POWER REFERENCE 


The power distribution system shall be electrically isolated from the spacecraft 
structure by a minimum of one megohm at D.C. before connection to the single point 
ground. The single point ground shall be selected on the spacecraft structure and 
there shall be no other structural D.C. path to the prime spacecraft power system. 
Power return leads shall be treated as electrically hot wires and isolated accord- 
ingly. The structure shall not be used to carry power return currents for any 
application. Secondary power within any particular equipment package may be 
referenced to chassis only if such connection does not compromise any portion of 
these total grounding criteria and the chassis shall be connected to the space- 
craft structure. 

5.8.2 SIGNAL REFERENCE 

Signal returns may be tied to structure at more than one point as necessary to 
accommodate special equipment requirements. There shall be a minimum of one megohm 
D.C. isolation between signal and power returns. 

5.8.3 COMMAND REFERENCE 

This category of reference termination may overlap into either of the two previous 
ground definitions. In the instance when a commanded function is initiated by a 
discrete pulse, it might be construed to be a "signal". For the commanded function, 
it is the application of power to a module or equipment item which could be con- 
strued to be a "power" system function. By either definition, the return leads for 
command functions shall be treated as electrically hot leads and be connected to 
structure at the single point ground location only. The return leads shall be 
isolated from structure by a minimum of one megohm at D.C. before connection to the 
single ground point. 


54 

D180-18450-3 



AC VOLTAGE - mV AC VOLTS - RMS VALUE OF 

PEAK TO PEAK EACH FREQUENCY COMPONENT PULSE' LIMITS-VOLTS 


THl 



COMPANY 




600 ■ 

! 

400 • 


200 K 


' 10 

\ 

i 


FIGURE 5.7#: POWER LINE ROTATIONALLY INDUCED 
VOLTAGE DRIFT 


DRIFT DOES NOT OCCUR WHEN SYSTEM 
VOLTAGE IS BELOW 25.0 VOLTS 


■ i i i > > ■ ■ i 1 

12 20 30 

FREQUENCY CYCLES PER MINUTE 
5 ' 512 

D180- 18450-3 


(SO 00 2 140 ORIS. 4/71 



The . 


COMPANY 


5.8.4 


SHIELD REFERENCE 


Wire pairs that have an individual shield for that pair alone shall be normally 
terminated at one end only. Peripheral termination (i.e. 360 degree contact) at 
the connector backshell is recommended for all circuits that require an overall 
shield on a wire bundle. The overall shield shall be terminated at both ends of 
the cable. 


Electroexplosive device or ordnance device initiation circuitry wires shall be on 
twisted shielded pairs that have a double braid shield. The shields shall be 
terminated peripherally at each end of the cable. 

If an individual shield is brought out to a pigtail for termination, the length 
from shield connection to terminal or connector pin shall not exceed 1 inch. 
Individual shields may be commoned at a connector pin for the purpose of passing 
through a bulkhead. 

5.8.5 BONDING 


Bonding of the BSRM electrical/electornic equipment cases shall be aceompl ished 
in accordance with paragraph 3.3.5 of MIL-B-5087B. Bonding of equipment enclos- 
ures, whether jumpered or otherwise, the selection of materials shall be made to 
minimize the possibility of corrosion. Aluminum surfaces to be bonded shall have 
surface finishes in accordance with Table II of D2-82610. 


5.9 


LIGHTNING PROTECTION 


No requirement for lightning protection shall be imposed on spacecraft equipment 
design. 


5.10 STATIC ELECTRICITY 


All isolated conducting items having dimensions greater than three inches, and 
carrying fluids or other static producing flowing materials, shall be bonded in 
accordance with the provisions of MIL-B-5087B. 


5.11 PERSONNEL HAZARD 


The basic system design shall include provisions that minimize or eliminate, where 
possible, all hazards to personnel that will be involved with the operation and 
test of the BSRM electrical /electronic equipment items. Suitable warnings shall be 
provided in test procedures for all transmitting sources capable of producing RF 
field at frequencies and levels that are potentially dangerous to personnel in the 
area of operation. High voltage circuits and associated cabling shall provide 
suitable protection to prevent inadvertant contact of personnel that will provide 
a conducting path between the high voltage and structure or ground. The electrical/ 
electronic equipment shall comply with the requirements of MIL-STD-454C, Require- 
ment 1 Safety. 


►*0 00 OfVlG 4/7* 


513 

D180-18450-3 



THE 


COMPANY 


5.12 ELECTROMAGNETIC HAZARD TO. EED'S 

All BSRM EED's shall comply with the requirements of applicable launch sites and 
the electromagnetic field intensity requirement of 100 watts per square meter 
as specified in paragraph 3.3 of Appendix A to AFMTCP 80-2 (October 1963 edition). 
These requirements shall also apply to the EED initiation circuitry. 

The experiment contractors shall perform an EED analysis to verify the satisfaction 
of the above requirement for each experiment where EED's are employed. Supporting 
RF sensitivity data will be required for the EED's. 

The Boeing Company shall perform an EED analysis to verify the satisfaction of the 
above requirements for spacecraft EED's and associated circuitry and EED cabling 
to the experiments. The results of these analyses shall be included in the Design 
Analysis Report for each satellite. 

5.13 EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT 


The satellite shall be capable of operation in the specified RF external environ- 
ment of the applicable launch area. The tabulation of sources, frequencies, and 
field intensities will be defined after contract go-ahead. 

5.14 SUPPRESSION COMPONENTS 


Suppression components shall be designed to provide a minimum safety margin of 
6 dB. All relays shall include suppression devices. 

5.15 ELECTRICAL CONNECTORS 

Connectors shall have a conductive finish on the back shell and shall have provis- 
ions for peripheral termination and overall shields. Connector pin to chassis 
termination leads shall be two inches or less in length. 


j ’ 4^ f? * G <X f ! * 


514 

D180-18450-3 


THE 


COMPANY 


6.0 CONTAMINATION CONTROL PLAN 


This plan describes the contamination control requirements and procedures for 
the Boeing Small Research Module. The purposes of this plan are: 

o Provide effective contamination prevention and control during 
all fabrication, assembly, integration, test and launch 
support phases of the BSRM program. 

o Ensure that contamination control considerations are incorporated 
into the BSRM spacecraft from the initial design onward. 

o Ensure that contamination control measures are properly 
integrated into all manufacturing, test, transportation, and 
launch procedures. 

The requirements, procedures, and facilities to be used in compliance with this 
plan have been developed and successfully used by Boeing on previous NASA and 
USAF satellite programs. All degrees of contamination control have been imple- 
mented from conventional factory fabrication to stringent interplanetary vehicle 
cleanliness. Detail approved operational procedures are available and all 
personnel are intimately familiar with their requirements. 

Key features of this plan are: 

o Contamination control will be implemented for BSRM only to the 
degree required to meet requirements. Excessive controls, 
stringent inspection techniques, and use of expensive facilities 
are avoided to keep program costs minimized. 

o Contamination prevention and control will be an on-going effort 
on the part of all organizations and will be a task intimately 
integrated with all aspects of the BSRM program. 

This plan is organized into two sections: Part I deals with the BSRM contami- 

nation control requirements, planned techniques, and facilities to be used; 

Part II presents detail procedures and cleaning methods to be employed on the 
BSRM while at the Boeing Space Center and the launch site. 


601 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2145 ORtG, 4/7 1 



THU 


COMPANY 


PART I 


6.1 BSRM CONTAMINATION CONTROL 


The requirements, facilities and control techniques described below will be 
implemented for the BSRM program defined in this document. 

6.1.1 REQUIREMENTS 

6. 1.1.1 Equipment Items . All components procured for the BSRM will be fab- 
ricated and tested in accordance with the contamination control procedures 
normally implemented at the supplier's facility for fabrication of the specific 
component. Prior to closing a "black box", a visual inspection of the box in- 
terior will be performed to ensure absence of any foreign materials. In 
addition, the following contaminants will be controlled by existing supplier 
techniques: 

o Introduction of. harmful chemical vapors or fumes will be prevented. 

The supplier will control all solvents, adhesives, paints, cleaning 
agents and such, for use on or around the hardware. 

o The effects of RF and magnetic fields will be considered and 

appropriate steps taken to eliminate the sources or minimize their 
effects. 

Before introduction into a controlled clean work area, all equipment items will 
be closed to the external environment and the exterior cleaned using approved 
cleaning agents to ensure absence of all particulate contaminants. While being 
transported between work areas, the hardware will always be protected from any 
particulate or chemical contaminants. 

6. 1.1. 2 Base Module Assembly . Detail parts and structural assembly work will 
be accomplished in conventional factory areas. Parts and assemblies will be 
cleaned per existing approved procedures and moved into a FED-STD-209A Class 
300,000 area where final assembly, equipment installations and electrical test- 
ing will be conducted. 

6.2 CLEAN FACILITIES 


The Boeing Space Center complex at Kent consists of the following facilities 
for spacecraft assembly and test: 

a. Class 300,000 Room; 

b. Class 100,000 Room; 

c. Class 10,000 Horizontal Laminar Flow; 

d. Numerous Class 100 downflow tents and clean benches 


602 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2148 ORIG. 4/7 1 



THE 


COMPANY 


Figure 6.2-1 summarizes the Space Center facility floor plan. All clean 
facilities will be monitored regularly and will be certified before initial 
use. All personnel involved in clean-room work are certified for knowledge 
of and competence in clean room disciplines and procedures. All clean rooms 
are identified as limited access areas. The clean areas are controlled to 
Boeing Specification Support Standard BSS 7001, which is traceable to FED- 
STD-209A and T.O. 00-25-203. 



6.3 CONTAMINATION CONTROL TECHNIQUES 

To implement this plan for the BSRM, Boeing will adhere to the concepts and 
controls outlined below and surranarized in Figure 6.3-1. 

6.3.1 SPACECRAFT CONTAMINATION CONTROL 


During assembly and test of the BSRM spacecraft, detail procedures will con- 
trol all aspects of contamination prevention, inspection and verification. 

The existing Class 300,000 clean room facility will be used. The facility 
will be monitored regularly and a continuous temperature and relative humidity 


603 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2145 OR1G. 4/7 1 



COMPANY 


CO 


CO 


col 


►— t 

c 




LU X 





CO LU 

00 





LU 

a: 


LU 

_J OH 

»— < « 

LU 


CO 


h- o 

' > ^ • 


<1 

1— i LU 

►— i LU 

HH ^ 



Z Z 

_J M 

-J 


o 

►— 

»— 1 l_L_ 

LU 



co 

o H-i 

Q 


a. 

1— OC 

<C trj 




Z LU CO 

u_ a: 




LU O _1 

LU 




z z o 

cd o 




once 

ZL 




a. H- 

M LU 




3t o z 

lu ct: 




OHIO 

o c 




O QC O 

co 




z 





QC 1— O 

CD LU 




LU O LU 

z z 


— 


i— < <c > 



z 

H- 

_J LU o 

1 — o 


O O- 

O- Z Q£ 

CO 00 


PH 

LU 

azo. 

*— • cn 


h O CO 

n<o. 

X LU 


<OH 

cos< 

LU D_ 


OH «C CO 




CD 

LU 

o 

O 


LU 

h- 



o 
<c o 
<n o 
o « 
cm o 
i o 

□ CO 
I — 

CO CO 
I CO 
Q <t 
LU _J 
lu o 


co 

—I 

I — I 

<c 

I — 
LU 

o 

CO 


o 

Q_ 


8 




cc 

C 


oo 

LU 


z 

o 


o 

o 


oo 

CD 

LU 

OH 

Z 

CO 


a: 

c 

z >- 
O co 
i— i co 
I— c 
z 

LU eC 

> 

Z CO 

o < 


>- 

h- 

CO 

Li- 

CO 

cC 

CQQ< 

od 

c z 

o 

U- <C 03 

LU 

Z3 

O 

CO 

< 


Q. 


CO 


• 

Q 

3 

oS 

z 

oc 

LU 

< — 1 

<c 

co co 

«C 


— 1 <c 

a. z 

>~ 

o 

o o 

co 

o 

Z PH 

co 

1 — 

CO h- 

c 


Z 



>- LU 
> > 

08 


< Z 

CO 


LU O 



Z O 

Lu 


604 

D180-18450-3 


>0 6000 2 M8 ORIG. 4/71 


BSRM CONTAMINATION CONTROL CONCEPT 













THE 


COMPANY 


record kept. All personnel involved in clean room work are certified for know- 
ledge of and competence in clean room disciplines and procedures. All clean rooms 
are identified as limited access areas. 

Contractor will prepare and release a "Materials and Processes" document for the 
BSRM program to define the materials and processes for the spacecraft design. 

This document will be similar to the Burner II D2-82610 "Finishing, Marking and 
Color Requirements" used on Burner II, IIA, SESP and STP programs, and also 
similar to D233-1 0090-1 , "Materials and Process for the Small Satellite Test 
Program (S3)". Only materials listed in this document will be used in the 
spacecraft design or to service and clean the spacecraft. 

Condensible materials will be controlled through proper design. The design intent 
is to use only those polymeric materials that generate less than 0.1 percent 
volatile condensible materials (VCM) when tested by the JPL/SRI Micro VCM method 
or acceptable equivalent method. When qualified data is not available for desired 
materials, such materials will be tested by the above method in Boeing's test 
facil ity. 

Propellants and fluids compatabil ity will be verified and controlled to minimize 
on-orbit contamination. Cleanliness levels will be maintained through constraints 
on particulates. Propulsion units selected for the design will not produce any 
particulate larger than one micron. 

6.3.2 SUBCONTRACTOR AND SUPPLIER CONTROLS 

Contamination will be controlled on all purchased equipment to normal supplier 
procedures through requirements incorporated in the supplier procurement specifi- 
cation. Source control surveillance/inspection will verify compliance. The 
exterior of the equipment will be cleaned to spacecraft requirements. Selection 
of materials will be controlled by procurement specification requirements. 
Packaging, handling, storage, and transportation requirements will also be 
specified by the specification and existing supplier procedures. Contamination 
prevention and control capability will be verified during pre-award subcontractor/ 
supplier survey. 

6.3.3 TESTING 


Contamination prevention and control during testing will be specified in the 
approved test procedures. Test plans and procedures developed under previous 
programs are applicable for BSRM. Some environmental testing must necessarily 
be done in conventional test areas where hydrocarbon, humidity, and temperature 
are controlled only as for a normal test facility as shown in Figure 6.3-1. 
After completion of environmental tests, the BSRM will be cleaned and inspected 
by approved procedures prior to being returned to the clean room. Cleaned caps 
will cover sensitive optics such as sun and earth sensors. 

6.3.4 TRANSPORTATION AND HANDLING 


The expected transportation environment will be the ambient environment associ- 
ated with air and truck transportation (no rail). The spacecraft will be cleaned 
and placed in a shipping container, sealed in cleaned bags, and transported with 
monitor controls to record temperature environments. 


Aftftn ORlG. 4/7 1 


605 

D180-18450-3 



THE 


COMPANY 


6.3.5 AGE/TOOLS 

All ancillary equipment to be used on the BSRM program will be subjected to equi- 
valent contamination prevention and control requirements. Electrical AGE, tools 
and handling equipment will be cleaned to the levels consistent with the facility 
being used prior to entry to that facility. Existing procedures, cleanable 
standard AGE/GHE and cleanable tools will be utilized. All tools will be de- 
gaussed prior to use for magnetic cleanliness control. All new AGE/GHE designed 
for BSRM will consider the required cleanability criteria. 

6.3.6 PROCEDURES 


Detail procedures for implementation of this plan, and for maintenance of speci- 
fied cleanliness levels will be prepared and implemented to ensure satisfaction 
of these requirements from the design phase to on-orbit operations. 

a. Materials and Equipment, Specifications will require use of approved 
materials and those materials will be reflected in the design by 
drawings and verified by design reviews. Compliance with drawing re- 
quirements will be verified by Quality Control. 

b. Surface Preparation. Surface preparation and protective coating 
are controlled to the engineering drawing and specified by the 
Materials and Processes Document. 

c. Personnel. Boeing clean room personnel are trained and experienced 
in the operations of certified clean rooms. Such personnel have 
acquired experience in prior contamination control programs on a 
variety of NASA and USAF spacecraft. 

6.4 COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT 


The primary responsibility for contamination control for the BSRM rests with 
the Systems Integration Manager in the Engineering organization. Verification of 
compliance with engineering requirements is the responsibility of the Quality 
Control organization. Their specific tasks are outlines below. 

6.4.1 ENGINEERING 


The Systems Integration Manager is responsible for design and system level contam- 
ination prevention and control. He will be provided assistance in performing this 
function by personnel of the Material and Process Staff of the Structure Technology 
Organization. His responsibilities include: 

o Identify contamination control requirements and procedures. 

o Review the spacecraft design to satisfy contamination requirements. 


o Review component specifications to ensure completeness of contamination 
requirements. 

o Establish detail requirements for inclusion in ICD's and field support 
procedures. 


606 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2 145 ORIG. 4/7 1 



THE 


COMPANY 



0 


Review test plans and procedures to ensure that contamination 
requirements and test environments are properly identified, 
measured, and/or controlled. 


The Systems Integration Manager will assure that all specifications are reviewed 
prior to release with specific regard to the adequacy and completeness of contam- 
ination requirements. He will participate in the various design reviews and 
technical interchange/interface meetings to ensure that specified contamination 
requirements have been properly reflected in the design and design requirements 
are attainable. Material and Processes engineers will assist in these reviews. 

He has overall responsibility for the resolution of contamination prevention and 
control problems. 

Frequent interfacing with manufacturing and quality engineering will permit prompt 
resolution of contamination prevention/control problems. The system sued at Boeing 
by manufacturing to correct nonconformance to drawings and procedures is the imple- 
mentation of the Integrated Record System (IRS). Non-conformance to released 
engineering of drawings and test procedures is handled by Unplanned Event-Rejection 
forms. All such forms regarding contamination will be resolved by engineering and 
will require approval of the Systems Integration Manager. The system will be 
implemented during manufacturing and covers shipping, preservation, packaging, 
handling, testing, assembly, installation, checkout and all in-plant and field 
operations of the spacecraft. 


6.4.2 QUALITY CONTROL 


After requirements are defined In the released and approved drawings and test 
procedures, Quality Control personnel will verify that contamination requirements 
called out have been complied with. Quality Control is responsible to verify 
that personnel certification requirements are met during the performance of 
contamination critical functions. 


Packaging to maintain acceptable cleanliness levels of hardware during handling, 
transportation and storage, and during test operations will be evaluated as part 
of the contamination prevention assessment by Quality Engineering. Frequent 
interfacing with Manufacturing and Engineering will permit prompt resolution of 
contamination control problems. Quality Engineering support to source control 
will include consultation on supplier contamination prevention or control problems 
supplemented, where necessary, by on-the-spot trouble shooting and problem 
resolution. 


Existing Quality Control monitoring and verification procedures established for 
other programs will be implemented during the BSRM fabrication and test cycle to 
accomplish certification of conformance of clean room environment to required 
levels of cleanliness and periodic monitoring to assure continued conformance. 
Existing quality control procedures meet present cleanliness requirements. 

Manual sampling and visual examination to determine particulate contamination 
will be the principal monitoring technique. Surveillance will be performed to 
identify and correct noncompliance of personnel with access, activity or other 
constraints during periods when hardware is exposed. 



607 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2 1 4B ORlG. 4/7 1 



TH6 


COMPANY 


All monitoring and surveillance activities will be implemented through the planned 
events of the Integrated Record System, and are consequently subject to the same 
controls and reviews as are other inspections and surveillance activities. Non- 
conformances will be recorded as unplanned events on the Unplanned Event-Rejection 
forms of the Integrated Record System, and will be subject to the same corrective 
action disciplines as are hardware nonconformances. 

6.5 FUTURE CONTAMINATION CONTROL 


Boeing has existing facilities, procedures and certified personnel to implement 
more stringent contamination control on future BSRM spacecraft. If sensitive 
instruments are integrated into the module, or if future spacecraft require 
cleanliness levels tighter than Class 300,000, the following can be implemented 
with associated higher costs: 

o Class 100,000 and/or Class 10,000 rooms can be used for assembly 
and some integration testing. 

lo Numerous Class 100 downflow tents and laminar flow benches are 
available for component fabrication and assembly. The Class 100 
downflow tent can be moved to the high bay test facility for 
cleanliness control during some environmental testing. 

o Dry GN 2 purging can be used during transportation and storage of 
the spacecraft between test facilities and/or to the launch site. 

o More stringent inspection techniques, such as black light, magni- 
fication, freon flush, etc. can be used if required to verify 
particulate cleanliness to more stringent levels. 


608 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2145 ORlG. 4/71 


THE 




COMPANY 


PART II 


6.6 BSRM CLEANLINESS PROCEDURES 


This section identifies the standard cleaning, packaging and inspection, procedures 
available for use on assemblies, and testing equipment for the BSRM. Cleaning 
needed to comply with this document is restricted to exposed surfaces. Detail 
drawings, manufacturing planning and test procedures will reference specific 
methods and controls of this document when applicable to insure compliance with 
the BSRM contamination control requirements. 

.< 

These procedures shall apply to spacecraft parts and assemblies when prepared for 
delivery. When tools, jigs, tests parts, etc., are to be cleaned, the information 
found in Table 6.6-2 can be used to determine proper cleaning procedures. 

6.6.1 MATERIALS CONTROL 

CAUTION 

POLYVINYLCHLORIDE (PVC) MATERIALS SHALL 
NOT BE USED WITH THE BSRM SATELLITE DUE 
TO ITS DELETERIOUS OUTGASSING PROPERTY. 

ENSURE THAT ALL WRAPING MATERIAL, PACK- 
AGING FILM, GN, PURGING HOSES, ETC. ARE 
NOT PVC. c 

All materials, solvents and cleaning items to be used on the BSRM spacecraft shall 
be limited to only those items listed in Table 6.6-1. 

6.6.2 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL 

Except when otherwise specified, the procedures defined herein shall be accomp- 
lished in an environmental area controlled to BSS 7001, Class 300,000. 

6.6.3 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 

All machining, deburring, forming, drilling, etching and other manufacturing 
operations on parts and assemblies shall be accomplished prior to final cleaning 
and packaging. The final operation shall be a cleaning operation performed in 
an environment comparable to BSS 7001, Class 300,000. 

6.6.4 CLEANING METHODS 


The following standard methods will be used when so directed by Engineering to 
clean detail parts or assemblies. 

6.6. 4.1 Solvent Cleaning . The solvents of Table 6.6-1 can be used to solvent 
clean parts and subassemblies. The choice of solvents shall be as noted in 
Table 6.6-2. The cleaning methods shall be as shown below. 


609 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2 1 4 & OR1G. 4/7 1 



THE 


COMPANY 


TABLE 6.6-1 
ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS 

a. Film, Aclar 22A, two mil minimum. General Chemical Division, Allied 
Chemical Corporation, Morristown, New Jersey. 

b. Film, polyethylene, plastic, four mil minimum thickness. 

c. Gloves, pylox neoprene surgical. 

d. BMS 11-6, Trichloroethylene, Type I or II. 

e. Trichlorotrifluroethane 

i. Freon TF or precision cleaning agent, Dupont 

ii. Genesolv D, electronic grade, Allied Chemical Company. 

f. BMS 3-2, Type 1. 

g. Naptha, TT-N-95. 

h. Acetone, ACS Reagent Chemical. 

i. Ethyl Alcohol, 95 percent, denatured. 

j. Butyl alcohol, normal. 

k. Methyl ethyl ketone, MEK, TT-M-261. 

l. Cellosolve acetate. 

m. Gas, nitrogen. Mil -P-27401 , Type 1. 

n. Clean room wipers, Wi 1 shire Foam Products, Gardena, California. 

o. Isopropyl alcohol, commercial grade. 

p. Film, antistatic, plastic, RCAS-1200. 


610 

D180-18450-3 


THS 


COMPANY 


TABLE 6.6-2 
SELECTION OF SOLVENTS 



611 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2145 ORIG. 4/71 

























































THE 


COMPANY 


Method 1 - Apply appropriate solvent from Table 6.6-2 to the surface by dispens- 
ing from a squirt or squeeze bottle. Rub the wetted surface with a clean room 
wipe. Change the wipe when it becomes soiled. Repeat the pro-ess of wetting and 
scrubbing until the surface is clean and the clean wipe shows no soil. Dry per 
6. 6. 4. 2. a or 6.6.4.2.b as appropriate for the part or assembly. Inspect per 6.6.6. 
Package per 6.6.7. 

NOTE: Squirt or squeeze bottles shall have terminal filters. 

Method 2 - Dampen a clean room wipe with appropriate solvent from Table 6.6-2. 

Begin rubbing around the outside of the dirty area and work toward the center to 
prevent spreading of the dirt. Repeat using a clean room wipe as often as nec- 
essary. Dry per 6. 6. 4. 2. a or 6.6.4.2.b as appropriate for the part or assembly. 
Inspect' per 6.6.6. Package per 6.6.7. 

6. 6. 4. 2 Drying . 

(a.) Wipe dry with clean room wipe, 
i (b.) Air dry in BSS 7001, Class 300,000 environment for one hour. 

6. 6. 4. 3 Mechanical Cleaning . 

Method 1 - Thoroughly vacuum the surfaces of parts or subassemblies to be cleaned. 
Inspect per 6.6.6. Package per 6.6.7. 

Method 2 - Blow the surfaces free of loose dirt with pressurized shop air or gas. 
Inspect per 6.6.6. Package per 6.6.7 Pressurized shop air or gas shall be free 
of oil, water, and particulates when tested per BSS 7001, Panel Spray Test. 

6.6.5 CLEANING PROCEDURES 


The following standard procedures will be used when so directed by Engineering to 
clean assemblies and components of the BSRM spacecraft. 

6. 6. 5.1 Solar Panels . Prior to delivery, solar panels shall be cleaned as 
follows to remove dirt film, finger prints, etc. 

CAUTION 

DO NOT USE AN EXCESS AMOUNT OF ACETONE ALLOWING FREE LIQUID 
TO SATURATE COVER GLASS CEMENT OR BOND LINE. EXERCISE EX- 
TREME CARE TO AVOID DAMAGE TO COVER SLIDES, CONDUCTORS, OR 
INTERCONNECTS. USE ONLY MODERATE PRESSURE WHEN SWABBING 
WITH CLOTH OR Q-TIPS. 

(a.) Area of solar cells away from interconnect tabs: Solvent clean 

using Method 2 of paragraph 6. 6. 4.1. Dry per 6. 6. 4. 2. a or 
6.6.4.2.b. 


612 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2 148 ORIG. 4/7 1 



THE 


COMPANY 


(b.) Adjacent to the. interconnect tabs: Solvent clean using cotton 

tipped Q-tips moistened with acetone. Use very light pressure, 
even to the extent of leaving some small amount of residue, to 
avoid damaging the interconnect tab compliance loops. It should 
be noted that these contact areas are coated with a clear thin 
conformal coating and may have minute particles of lint or 
foreign material adhering. Removal of such minute particles is 
not mandatory for proper function of the solar arrays. Dry per 
6. 6. 4. 2. b. 

6. 6. 5. 2 Structural Assembly . After installation of appropriate equipment, com- 
ponents, wirint, etc., and prior to delivery, the BSRM spacecraft shall be 
mechanically cleaned per Method 1 of paragraph 6. 6. 4. 3 (Method 2 shall not be 
used to preclude contamination deposits in structural cracks). After vacuuming. 
Method 2 of paragraph 6. 6. 4.1 shall be used to remove dirt film, finger prints,' 
residual cutting oils, etc. Dry per 6. 6. 4. 2. a or 6.6.4.2.b. Do not blow dry 
using compressed shop air or gas. 

6.6. 5. 3 Wire Bundles . After installation on the spacecraft, the wire bundle 
shall be cleaned in conjunction with the structural assembly (paragraph 6. 7. 5. 2 
above) by vacuuming using Method 1 of 6.7. 4. 3. Connectors, support brackets, 
clamps, etc., shall then be solvent cleaned per Method 2 of paragraph 6.7.4. 1. 
Solvent cleaning of the wire braid is not required except where visible contam- 
inate deposites are evident. Dry per. 6. 6.4. 2. a or 6.6.4.2.b. Do nojt blow dry 
using compressed shop air or gas. 

6. 6. 5. 4 Thermal Blankets. 


CAUTION 

EXERCISE EXTREME CARE WHEN CLEANING 
TO AVOID DAMAGE TO THERMAL BLANKETS. 

THERMAL BLANKETS SHALL ONLY BE 
HANDLED WITH CLEAN SURGICAL GLOVES. 

Solvent clean thermal blankets per Method 2 of paragraph 6.6.4. 1 using light 
pressure and extreme care not to tear the blanket material, sewn edges, or cut- 
outs. Dry per 6. 6. 4. 2. a or 6.6.4. 2. b. Do not blow dry using compressed shop 
air or gas. Thermal blankets shall be cleaned prior to installation on the 
cleaned spacecraft. 

6.6. 5. 5 Sensor Optics . The sun and earth sensor optics and aperture covers 
shall be cleaned prior to delivery as follows: 

(a.) Remove dust, lint and other foreigh matter by blowing air 
across the surface with a hand rubber syringe. Do not use 
compressed shop air or gas. 


613 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2 1 49 ORIG. 4/7 1 



THE 


COMPANY 


CAUTION 

DO NOT USE POLISHING LIQUIDS, PASTES 
OR ABRASIVES FOR CLEANING LENSES OR 
SENSOR OPTICS. 



(b.) If the optics are still not clean, use isopropyl alcohol, fine 
lens tissue paper or Q-tips and clean per Method 2 of 6. 6. 4.1. 
On large diameter optical elements, the cleaning process should 
start in the center of the optical element and slowly proceed 
to the outer edge of the optical element using a circular mo- 
tion at all times. The process should not produce any streaks. 
Repeat this procedure until all surface dirt and marks are 
removed. 

(c. ) Dry per 6. 6.4. 2. b. 

(d.) Clean aperture covers per Method 1 or 2 of paragraph 6. 6. 4.1. 
Dry per 6. 6. 4. 2. a or 6.6.4.2.b. 


6. 6. 5. 6 Installation of Cleaned Hardware to Satellite . Control the install a- 
tion of cleaned parts and equipment to the following requ i rements : 


(a.) Exercise minimum handling of the cleaned hardware. 


(b. ) Handling tools 
free materials, 


must be cleaned with MEK or alcohol using lint- 


(c.) Equipment storage bags shall be vacuum cleaned or wiped down 
with a clean lint-free cloth prior to bringing the equipment 
to the spacecraft. 

(d.) Install equipment on the cleaned satellite in the Class 300,000 
controlled area. 


(e.) Control the number of personnel to the minimum required to 

perform actual assembly/test operation(s). Parallel operations 
are permitted. 


6.6.6 INSPECTION 


Surfaces of all cleaned parts and assemblies shall be visually examined for the 
presence of moisture, foreign material such as grease, oil, loose dirt, scale, 
etc. Parts which show evidence of contamination shall be recleaned. If after 
three (3) repetitions of cleaning and inspection, contamination is still visible, 
it shall be assumed to permanently imbedded in the paint or finish process and 
shall be considered acceptable for flight. 


614 

D180-18450-3 


artnrt ■) i^r noiC- A./ 1 I 


THE 


COMPANY 


6.6.7 PACKAGING PROCEDURE 


The following procedure will be used to package the BSRM spacecraft and any assoc 
iated loose items prior to delivery. 


NOTE 

Polyethylene film shall be cleaned per paragraph 6. 6. 4.1, 

Method 1 or 2, prior to being used for packaging cleaned 
parts or assemblies. Inspect cleaned film per paragraph 
6.6.6 prior to use. Cleaned parts or assemblies shall be 
handled with clean gloves during all packaging operations. 

(a.) Insert the part, assembly, or spacecraft into a clean bag made from 
RCAS-1200 antistatic film or polyethylene film. Remove as much air 
as practical from the bag. Heat seal with a continuous 1/16 inch 
minimum width seam using a thermal impulse type sealer. 

(b.) Place the bagged assembly inside a second bag also made from clean 
polyethylene or RCAS-1200 film. Remove as much air as practical 
from the bag. Heat seal with a continuous 1/16 inch minimum width 
seam using an electric sealing tool. 

(c.) Affix an appropriate label or tag identifying the contents by part 
number and serial number (if applicable). 


615 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 214$ ORIG. 4/7 1 



THE 


COMPANY 


7.0 OPERATIONAL SUPPORT 


7.1 AGE PLAN 

This plan contains a description of the design and usage of the Aerospace Ground 
Equipment (AGE) and the Ground Handling Equipment (GHE) to support' the BSRM pro- 
gram. Existing S3 equipment and existing Boeing capital equipment will be used 
to a very large extent. Functional and interface requirements for the BSRM are 
essentially identical to the S3 satellite. The extreme commonality with previ- 
ously used AGE reduces cost and insures efficient conduct of BSRM development and 
acceptance test programs. 

7.1.1 ELECTRICAL AGE 

Electrical AGE will be provided to support functional testing of the BSRM satel- 
lite with and without payloads installed. The equipment will be entirely port- 
able, permitting support of testing at Boeing and any Scout launch site. 

Figure 7.1-1 shows a schematic of the BSRM electrical AGE and identifies the 

specific equipment items. All AGE shown is available from the S3 program. Two 

minor differences for BSRM are: 

o Additional breakout boxes may be required for the different connectors 
on any added subsystem components. 

o The earth sensor stimulator will be a different unit for the 3-axis 
BSRM version. 

7. 1.1.1 Mobile Test Lab . The heart of the electrical AGE system is the Boeing- 
owned Mobile test Lab (MTL). This unit is a mobile command and telemetry ground 
station with capability to perform the following functions: 

o Receive and evaluate satellite telemetry data. 

o Record test data. 

o Transmit satellite commands. 

o Identify out-of-tqlerance measurements. 

o Format and display selected test data. 

o Service operator requests for data processing, command generation 
and transmission, display formatting and software operation. 

o Retrieve, display, and print selected data. 

The MTL contains both manual and computer controlled functional capability. It 
stores test procedure sequences, satellite conmands and go/no-go limits in the com 
puter memory and provides automatic execution and verification of pre-established 


701 

D180-18450-3 


*00 


2 l 45 OBIT.. At f » 











THE 


COMPANY 


test criteria. The similarity of S3 and BSRM subsystems will allow a large part 
of the S3 test procedures and computer software to be utilized without modifica- 
tion in the BSRM test program. 


The MTL equipment is contained in an 8 foot high by 8 foot wide by 34 foot long 
equipment module mounted on a 4-wheel trailer. The wheels are removable for air 
or road mobility. Figure 7.1-2 presents a cut-away view of the van and identifies 
the interior equipment items. 

7. 1.1. 2 Control and Monitor Test Set (CMTS) , The CMTS is a Boeing-owned set of 
equipment configured for testing S3 satellites. It is contained in three standard 
relay racks and performs the following functions: 


o Provides electrical power to the satellite main bus and 
simulates solar array output. 

o TDV computer interface relay control of satell ite functions 
(such as steppint the satellite timer). 

o Visual monitoring and alarms, for critical satellite functions 
(such as battery voltage and transmitter temperature). 

o Manual control of satellite power, sequencing and monitoring 
functions during test operations. 


o Visual time monitoring of test sequences. 

o Troubleshooting with self-contained standard test equipment 
(oscilloscope, digital voltmeter, etc.). 

The CMTS can be used essentially as configured to support the BSRM program. 


Interfaces between the MTL, the BSRM, and other electrical AGE are shown in Figure 
7.1-1. Controlling satellite functions not possible through the command link (such 
as stepping the satellite timer) is accomplished through relays in the CMTS. A 
remote CRT which displays computer controlled test sequences is located at the CMTS 
to provide visibility for the test team. 


- 7. 1.1. 3 Other Electrical AGE . The following. .additional items are available from 
the S3 program to support BSRM operations with little or no modification: 

Battery Trickle Charger . This unit maintains the satellite flight batteries at a 
full state of charge until disconnected during the launch countdown. It is housed 
in an explosion-proof suitcase container with visual and audible alarms which are 
activated if the battery terminal voltage or charge current reaches preset limits. 
The trickle charger would be used without modification for the BSRM. 


Break-In Boxes . A break-in box was provided for each type of satellite and satellite/ 
experiment interface connector to support special tests and troubleshooting. Each 
box has the capability of signal monitoring through plug-in lights and each connec- 
tion can be opened or jumpered individually to provide current monitoring or individual 
circuit disabling. Except for some experiment break-in boxes, the S3 boxes will sup- 
port the BSRM program. 

703 

D180-18450-3 



TW* 


COMPANY 


LU 

Q_ 


UJ 


uj ad 
o o 

O 1— 

o <c 

OL 

ce. 

UJ 

UJ UJ 

>- h- 

s z 

a: z 

1— < UJ 

C hh 

t— CD 

—1 cc 



704 


D180-18450-3 


000 2 140 ORIG. 4/7 1 


FIGURE 7.1-2: BOEING MOBILE TEST LAB 



THE 


COMPANY 


Squib Simulator . This suitcase test equipment contains circuit breakers and 
indicator lights to simulate satellite squib loads and verify current supply 
capability of squib firing circuits. The S3 program simulator with only minor 
modifications will support the BSRM program. 

Antenna Hoods . Antenna hoods were constructed for the S3 program for open loop 
command and telemetry communication with the MTL. These hoods can be used for 
the same purpose for the BSRM antennas. 

Stimulators . Sun and earth sensor stimulators and a "sun-gun" solar array 
stimulator are available from the S3 program to support BSRM. 

Simulators . A vendor-supplied sun sensor simulator is available from the S3 
program. The CMTS contains a solar array simulator (power supply) to provide 
power to the BSRM satellite during testing. 

7. 1.1.4 Payload Electrical Simulators . Anelectrical simulator with operating 
procedures will be provided by payload contractors for each payload package that 
interfaces with the satellite. The simulators will be used to: 

o Check out spacecraft system at the experiment interface prior to 
installation of flight payloads. 

o Verify proper connections to payload without risking damage to 
flight experiments. 

o Aid in fault isolation in the event of indicated payload mal- 
function. 

The payload simulators will be required to duplicate experiment orbital electri- 
cal loads, indicate receipt of command, and provide termination of telemetry 
input circuits to the BSRM satellite. Complete requirements for the payload 
simulators and operating procedures will be included in the Satell ite/ Experiment 
ICD's. The payload contractor will provide support for payload installation and 
alignment, servicing, special monitoring, stimulation and data evaluation. Also 
a payload representative will generally be present when AGE is being used and 
the payload operated. 

7. 1.1. 5 Launch Site AGE . The existing payload handling trailer will be required 
at each BSRM launch site to position the BSRM for mating to the Scout. 

The MTL requires three phase, 480 volt, 60 amp. facility power. The MTL is sup- 
plied with one 30 ft. cable for power connection. 


705 

D180-18450-3 



THE 


COMPANY 


7.1.2 GROUND HANDLING EQUIPMENT 

Existing GHE from the S3 program will be used to support the BSRM requirements. 
Minor modifications are required to some items to adapt to the Scout launch 
vehicle processing. The use of existing GHE results in complete flexibility of 
operations in test and transportation. Either vertical or horizontal installa- 
tion on test fixtures can be accommodated. The following paragraphs briefly 
summarize the GHE: 

Container/Transporter . The existing S3 transportation dolly, also serves as a 
shipping container. Shipping shock and vibration isolation is achieved with 
polyurethane foam cemented between two aluminum decks. An overbox is installed 
on the dolly during shipping. Provisions are incorporated in the existing 
design for contamination control barriers filled with dry nitrogen gas. 

Handling Frame . A lightweight aluminum frame is used to lift the satellite for 
instal Tation onto test fixtures or the transportation dolly. Sling attachment 
points permit rotation of the satellite to either horizontal or vertical posi- 
tions to accommodate any test orientation. 

Handling SI ing . A sling assembly is provided with interchangeable fittings to 
permit lifting of the satellite and handling frame in any orientation. 

Solar Panel Containers . Supplied by the solar panel vendor for storage and 
transportation of the fl ight solar array panels. Each panel is individually 
packaged in non-static clean bags and purged with dry nitrogen gas to provide 
contamination control. 

Cover - Solar Panel Protection . The solar panels will be installed on the sat- 
ellite during the majority of the program. Damage to the panels during process- 
ing will be prevented by the installation of a clear hard protective cover 
mounted to the satellite structure. It is easily removed for satellite access, 
testing and flight. 

Container - Battery Storage/Shipping . Each battery. will have storage/shipping 
container. It will provide adequate protection for the battery to prevent dam- 
age during storage and shipping and be packaged in polyethylene plastic to meet 
the cleanliness requirements. 

7. 1.2.1 Payload GHE . Each payload agency will provide any unique GHE with 
operating procedures to meet any experiment requirements. The payload contrac- 
tor will provide support for payload handling as required. 

7. 1.2. 2 Transportation . The satellite with experiments installed will be 
shipped to the launch sites by air or truck (no rail) in the existing satellite 
container/transporter. For truck transportation, a dedicated air-ride van will 
be used. No shock or vibration test equipment will be required as the existing 
transportation dolly has been tested on the S3 program to verify that transpor- 
tation loads dp not exceed flight loads. 

All AGE and GHE, including that provided by payload contractors, will be shipped 
and handled in conventional shipping containers. Standard handling equipment 
(fork lifts, etc.) will be used depending upon the AGE/GHE size and weight. 

706 

D180-18450-3 


' * * p o 0 • n * 0 i \ 



THE 


COMPANY 


7.2 FIELD PROCESSING PLAN 


This plan describes the operations to be conducted at Vandenberg AFB from the 
arrival of BSRM AGE and flight hardware through launch. All prepad operations 
will be performed in NASA Building 836 in South VAFB. Boeing has utilized 
NASA Building 836 for prepad processing of the STP P72-1 satellite and AFSCF 
compatibility testing of the three STP S3 satellites. The Boeing-owned Mobile 
Test Lab (MTL) was used at the NASA facility for computer-controlled functional 
testing of the S3 satellites and is proposed for similar testing of the BSRM 
satellites. The MTL, AGE and GHE are described in Section 7.1 of this document. 
The MTL will be used for on-pad satellite checkout and removed from the pad 
prior to the final launch countdown. 

7.2.1 TRANSPORTATION TO VANDENBERG AIR FORCE BASE (VAFB) 

After completion of acceptance testing in Seattle, the BSRM will be cleaned and 
sealed in an anti-static protective cover within the transportation/shipping 
dolly. The BSRM will be fully assembled except for squibs, spin motors, and 
solar panels, which will be packaged and shipped separately. The BSRM along 
with the AGE and GHE will be transported to VAFB in an enclosed environmentally 
controlled air-ride van. The wheels will be removed from the MTL and it will 
be loaded on an air-ride flatbed trailer for transportation. To minimize handl- 
ing of the MTL, it will remain on the flatbed trailer until it is returned to 
Seattle after launch. 

7.2.2 NASA BUILDING 836 OPERATIONS 


The BSRM, AGE, GHE and MTL will be processed in VAFB NASA Building 836 as shown 
in Figure 7.2-1. The BSRM, AGE and GHE will be off loaded from the air-ride 
van and positioned in the area outside of the Building 836 clean room. The 
overbox will be removed from the BSRM transportation dolly and the BSRM on its 
shipping dolly will be rolled into the clean room. The protective cover will 
be removed and a thorough visual inspection made. Configuration of the BSRM 
will be verified and uninstalled hardware will be inventoried and accounted 
for. 

In parallel with BSRM inspection and verification, the MTL will be positioned 
adjacent to Building 836. Facility power will be connected and the MTL will 
be checked out and recertified for use with the BSRM. The electrical AGE will 
be positioned outside the clean room, interconnected and checked out. 

After the MTL and AGE have been verified, they will be connected to the BSRM 
and used to verify there has been no damage or degradation to the BSRM due to 
shipment. The functional test will be the same as the System Performance Test 
performed in Seattle and described in Section 4.4. 2. 9 of this document. Upon 
successful completion of this test and verification of the test data, the MTL 
and AGE will be disconnected and transported to the launch pad. The spin motors 
and squibs will be installed in the BSRM and connected after "no voltage" has 
been verified in the ordnance circuits. The BSRM will be visually inspected 
and, using a checklist, all critical items such as connections and pin removals 
will be verified. The thermal blankets will be closed out except for areas 
requiring access at the launch pad and the solar panels will be installed and 

707 


D180-18450-3 



COMPANY 


1 — 


0 


LU 

— J 

ZZ1 

h- 


s: 

0 

-U 

1 LHJ Q 1 

L1<2 

M 

=1 

Q 





LlJ 


O 



s 


asz 

0 luq; 

U- l — 0 1 — 

CtL COLl CO 

LU >- CC LU 

CL IS) LU h- 

| , 

1 





1 — 


h- s: 


O 


1 1 1 r’ 

LU 

z z 

0 

z a: c 

O CO 


O CD 

oC 



>- LiJ 
l— u_ cd 

>-< <c 
o i— 
yaoa 

C_) LlJ 
UJO-I 

nr (— 

O oB S 


LU O 
> LU 

Oh _ 
sou> 
Lua>o 

OC Q. I— . o 



— J 

c 

—J 

LU 


1— CC 

0 0 

CO CO 

0 

Z CD 

z cc 

►— 4 

» — < . 


cd 

2 X 
LU >~H O 
> CL >- CO 
OQ._ia 
S M _] LU 
LJIO> 
K l/| Q O 



I l-H O 

— J h- 

c o ce s: 

I— LU LU cc 
CO h- > CO 
2 : O O CQ 

>— 1 q; c_> 

CL 



t 

_ 

1 


D CO 

O 

oau 

LU 

y <lu 


u_jz 


o3 LU O C 

0 

xwq; 

O 

O 

7 




cc 

o o 
o- h* n: 

00 0 

z 2 ; z o 
< ar n < 
q; to c Q_ 
(— oa _j 



✓ 

h 

1— oS 

Q 

a: 

C 

0 iju 0 a. 

cl z h 

- 

co 0 

z 

Z LU O 

«t -cd z 

c2_i<d 

h- 1 — 

c 

2 : 

—1 

"7 



1 — 


1 — 
LU (_> 

xo — 1 co 


> LU OO 

0 < f— 

1 f LU 


»-■ cl a: _i 


LU CO-<C LU 

lu o; y 


0 z i z 

CO LU ^ 


LU > — » O <C 

0 Z c 


DC CO CL 

_J 1— _J 


oQ 

_s =2 eo 



o3 LU 

I o 

j co 2 : 

|< a: <c 

1 — 2 = o 2 : 

MiHha 
: a. o oc 
'MZO 


K — 


1 

LU O 


LU O 

> LU 


> LU 

' Cl 


naz 

LU CO LU 


LU CO CC 

O Z CD 


0 z co 

W •-< =C 


LU »— « CD 

ct. 


cc 

03 


o3 




708 

D180-18450-3 


FIGURE 7.2-1 NASA BLDG 836 OPERATIONS 



























THE 


COMPANY 


electrically verified. The BSRM will be cleaned as necessary and the anti- 
static protective cover will be reinstalled on the BSRM and sealed. The 
transportation dolly will be rolled out of the clean room, the overbox will 
be installed and the dolly will be loaded onto an air-ride trailer for trans- 
portation to the pad. 

7.2.3 LAUNCH COMPLEX OPERATIONS 

The BSRM will arrive at the launch complex and be off loaded from the trailer 
using a fork lift truck as shown in Figure 7.2-2. The transportation dolly 
will be moved into the movable shelter chain hoist. The BSRM will be lifted 
from the dolly using the GFE Payload Handling Trailer. This trailer will be 
used to position the BSRM for mating with the Scout Fourth Stage. After the 
BSRM is positioned for mating, the V-band will be installed and torqued. Dur- 
ing V-band torquing personnel protection will be provided by using a safety 
strap to retain the V-band in case of a failure. The BSRM protective cover 
will remain on the spacecraft at all times prior to fairing installation to 
provide maximum environmental protection. Any access to the BSRM will be pro- 
vided by cutting the cover as necessary and resealing after completion of the 
task. After BSRM/Scout mating is complete, the MTL and electrical AGE will 
be connected and a short confidence test will be performed to verify no damage 
has occurred to the BSRM during the transportation and handling operations. 
This test will exercise the BSRM subsystems and experiments to the extent 
necessary to verify aliveness. The MTL will be used to provide the uplink 
commands and to verify telemetry outputs. After the completion of this test, 
the battery will be fully charged and a battery trickle charger will be con- 
nected. The MTL and electrical AGE will be disconnected and removed from the 
launch site. 

Prior to fairing installation, the BSRM protective cover will be removed and 
the sensor protective covers, solar panel protective covers and safing pins 
will be removed and final inspections and cleaning of the BSRM will be accom- 
plished. After the fairing is installed the only BSRM activity will be to 
maintain the battery trickle charger and monitor battery voltage with the 
trickle charger. The charger will be disconnected and the arm plug will be 
installed as late in the countdown as practical, preferably just before erec- 
tion of the Scout for launch. The accomplishment of these tasks will require 
a small access door in the fairing. 

The above approach provides no monitoring of the BSRM during countdown. If 
monitoring is required by one of the payloads it can be provided through an 
umbilical to the BSRM and a control and monitor console in the blockhouse. 

If desired, the MTL could be positioned off the launch pad and used during 
the countdown to command the BSRM and monitor the open loop telemetry signals. 

7.2.4 FIELD PROCESSING SCHEDULE 


The field processing schedule is shown in Figure 7.2-3. This schedule, except 
for operations at the NASA Building 836, is almost totally dependent on Scout 
processing requirements. The only BSRM activities required at the pad are 
provided below with an estimate of the hours required to accomplish the tasks: 


709 

D180-18450-3 


THE 99 €9dE9Af99. COMPANY 



710 


FIGURE 7.2-2 SCOUT LAUNCH COMPLEX OPERATIONS 

















T*H* 



I I oE 2 

□ 2 2_ 

__l — I i/o uj co q: 

I — zz o 

W << CL 

u y a o; w 

O Z I — z 

Z < Q£ «f 

<c j <a; 2 . 
z ca _i o h- 
Q ou. 
on _J </> 

O er LU 

s! I— a: 

— °S a D< 

LU O Q- 

m x y l u 

Ct H- C_> DC 
1—0 LU Q. 

1/1 H I— I 





LU 

O 

ZD 

CD Q 

*3- 

o 

LU 

h“ 

z 

o 

z 

r— - 


CD 




Q < 



<c 

LU 

z 

LU 

Z 


h“ 


O 

»— • 

CO 

< z 

ir> 

CD 

h- 

z 

Cl. 

o 

< 

i— 

LU 

ZO 

< 

CO 

_» 

-J LU 


a_ 

O 



o 

I _J 

- 

co 



-J 


< cd 


z 

o 

O 

—1 


h— 

vo 

H— 1 

LU 

Ll_ 

< 


CO 

r“— 


n: 

a: 

1 — 


z 


©3 

cd 

LU 

CO 


»— » 

— ■ 



CL 

z 




LU 

©3 


►— 1 




> 






r— 

i—* 

a. 

LU 





LU 

ZD 

1 — 




' 

CD 

1 — 

to 





LU 

LU 

>- 




00 

QC 

to 

<o 





711 

D180- 18450-3 


FIGURE 7.2-3 FIELD PROCESSING SCHEDULE 



THE 


COMPANY 


o Mate to Fourth Stage - 4 hours 
o Perform Confidence Test - 4 hours 
o Prepare for Fairing Installation - 2 hours 
o Disconnect Trickle Charger and Install Arm Plug - 0.1 hours 

7.2.5 FACILITY REQUIREMENTS 

There are no special facility requirements other than the need for facility 
power at Building 836 and the Scout Launch Complex. The MTL requires three 
phase, 480 volt, 60 amp facility power at both locations. As there is no mon- 
itoring of the BSRM during countdown, there is no requirement for a console in 
the blockhouse. 

7.2.6 LOGISTICS SUPPORT 


The Boeing team will bring to VAFB all equipment that is needed to support 
Boeing operations at Building 836 and the launch complex. This includes the 
full complement of spares provided for BSRM support. 

7.2.7 PLANS AND PROCEDURES 


Boeing will provide the following plans and procedures to support the field 
processing activities: 

o A Field Processing Plan will be prepared to define and schedule all 
field activities. The plan will include organizational responsibil- 
ities, facility requirements, and logistic requirements. 

o Boeing will provide all procedures necessary to handle and test the 
BSRM at both Building 836 and the launch pad. 

o Boeing will provide BSRM inputs into integrated field documentation 
such as the countdown manual . 

The Boeing documentation will include inputs from the experimenters. All pro- 
cedures will be verified to the maximum extent practical during the Seattle 
test program. 


712 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2 145 ORIG. 4/7 1 



THE 


COMPANY 


7.3 SYSTEM OPERATION 

System operation for the BSRM will use techniques proven on the STP S3 program to 
provide efficient experiment data retrieval. The following features provide 
smooth flow and versatility. 

o Tracking, data retrieval, and data processing by STDN. 
o Technical support by the BSRM design and test engineers, 
o Real time mode selections by ground command 
o Real time or delayed execution of satellite operations. 

7.3.1 BOOST AND INJECTION OPERATIONS 

Each BSRM is placed in orbit by the Scout launch vehicle. After fourth stage 
burnout, a yo-yo device despins the BSRM/stage combination. The V-band ctawip 
is then fired separating the BSRM from the Scout upper stage. During separation 
of the satellite, the timer is actuated to initiate the BSRM sequence of events. 

7. 3. 1.1 Spin Stabilized BSRM . The sequence of events for the spin stabilized 
BSRM after ejection is as follows: 

o Fire spin-up motors. 

o Deploy satellite antenna booms. 

o Begin quarter orbit magnetic torquirig to precess the satellite 
spin-axis to the on-orbit orientation. 

o Switch timer from the ejection mode to the orbital mode. 

These events will be completed in less than three hours after separation from the 
launch vehicle. 

Quarter orbit torquing continues for up to 48 hours to precess the satellite spin 
axis. During th;is period of time ground commands are sent to the satellite to 
adjust the timer drive frequency to synchronize timer cycling with the orbital 
period. Housekeeping functions are monitored to verify proper satellite opera- 
tion. Ground commands are sent, at the completion of spin axis precession, to 
release payload covers and/or deployment devices and initiate enabling functions. 

7. 3. 1.2 Three-Axis Stabilized BSRM . The sequence of events for the 3-axis 
stabilized BSRM after ejection is as follows: 

o Spin up inertia wheel 

o Deploy satellite antenna boom 

o Acquire earth and sun references 

o Begin magnetic and inertia wheel torquing to establish axes orientation 
o Switch timer from the ejection mode to the orbital mode 


713 

D180-18450-3 



THE 


COMPANY 


Orientation torquing continues for up to 96 hours to align the spacecraft axes. 
During this period of time ground commands are sent to the satellite to adjust 
the timer drive frequency to synchronize timer cycling with the orbital period. 
Housekeeping functions are monitored to verify proper satellite operation. 

Ground commands are sent after axes orientation to release payload covers and 
for deployment devices and initiate enabling functions. 

7.3.2 ORBITAL OPERATIONS 

Orbital operation of experiments is accomplished by ground command and'a pre- 
programmed timer/grOund programmed reiay matrix. Real time operation of an 
experiment is accomplished by first sending commands to enable the experiments 
desired and then sending a command to switch the experiment power bus from pre- 
programmed operation to the ON configuration. 

Pre-programmed operation, using the timer, provides great flexibility in experi- 
ment operations. Timer output is programmed prior to each flight for 21 relay 
latching pulses per orbit; with 16 of the pulses occurring at each 22.5 degrees 
of orbit, and 5 pulses at the discretion of the experimenters. (Zero degrees in 
the orbit is referenced to any predetermined point in the orbit.) Each of the 
21 latching pulses may be used to either activate or deactivate the experiment 
bus during the orbit. Ground command is available to enable the use of the 
pulses. Ground command is also used to activate the timer during one or more of 
six orbits following a ground contact. 

7.3.3 GROUND OPERATION 

Satellite ground operations are performed by the NASA Space Tracking and Data 
Network (STDN). This net provides ground command of the satellite and accumula- 
tion of experiment, housekeeping, attitude and ephemeris data. Satellite 
operations will be performed in accordance with the Orbital Requirements Document 
(ORD). The ORD will be updated duirng the mission to provide for changes in 
operating conditions or the desired mode of operation. Data transmitted from the 
satellite will be gathered by the remote tracking stations throughout the world. 
Real time data and commands will be transmitted to and from the satellite via 
land lines. Recorded data, transmitted from the satellite, is shipped from the 
remote tracking stations to the Goddard Space Flight Center. 

Attitude and ephemeris are determined at Goddard. These data are then merged 
with the recorded experiment data, in a format compatible with the experimenters 
computer, to provide coordinated data. Raw data, including housekeeping and 
attitude, is available to experimenters upon request. 


714 

D180-18450-3 



THI 


COMPANY 


8.0 MANUFACTURING PLAN 


Fabrication and assembly of the 8SRM will be accomplished using low cost 
tooling concepts, product control procedures, and manufacturing techniques 
proven on previous successful Boeing spacecraft. A close working relation- 
ship between designers and manufacturing/tooling engineers has been developed 
in the SS&PS organization to insure low cost fabricabil ity and minimize tool- 
ing requirements. Cleanliness will be maintained by adherance to procedures 
defined in the Contamination Control Plan. 

Fabrication and assembly will be accomplished at the Kent Space Center in 
the 18-23 Building, with the exception of a few operations requiring the use 
of unique specialized equipment. These special shop operations will be 
accomplished in other company facilities where this equipment is located. 

8.1 APPROACH 


The SS&PS Manufacturing organization operates an organization of personnel 
experienced and disciplined in space oriented programs. This organization 
will report to and be responsible to the BSRM program manager. Realizing the 
manufacturing task is to produce a small quantity of critical hardware to a 
"tight" but attainable schedule, particular emphasis is placed on schedule 
control, configuration control, and cost effectiveness. A close day-to-day 
working relationship is maintained with Engineering, Materiel, Quality Control 
and Systems Test. 

Schedule and cost attainment is enhanced by assembling the basic structural 
configuration, ground equipment, and electronic packages in our project shop. 
Configuration control is maintained by the use of an existing Integrated 
Record System (IRS) which is fully responsive to AF375-1 manuals, and was 
used on BII/IIA and numerous STP programs. Existing S3 program tools, jigs, 
procedures, planning, etc. will be extensively used on the BSRM program to 
minimize costs and insure meeting schedules. 

8.2 FABRICATION PLAN 


The BSRM structure is very similar to the existing S3 vehicle. This similar- 
ity will allow extensive use of S3 fabrication and assembly jigs and fixtures. 
Critical interfaces such as payload interfaces, equipment locations, and boost 
stage interface will be controlled to engineering requirements. 

Manufacturing will make the solar panel substrates and deployment hinge mech- 
anisms. The blank solar panel substrates will be routed to a selected vendor 
for application of the solar cells to the substrates. The panels with the 
cells attached will be returned to the project shop for installation on the 
structure. Solar cell testing will be accomplished by the vendor. 

Boeing will fabricate some electronic assemblies, such as the relay box, 
antennas, electromagnetic coils, etc., as was done for the S3 program. , These 
items will be essentially identical to the S3 hardware permitting use of 
planning, tools, etc. Manufacturing will conduct in-process tests and accept- 
ance tests on each unit in accordance with existing engineering requirements. 


801 

D180-18450-3 


TH* 


COMPANY 


Interfaces are controlled as for any equipment item and existing drill tem- 
plates will be used where possible. 

All critical hole patterns required for interchangeability will be drilled 
from drill jigs which are either Boeing built or vendor supplied. Where 
alignment of hole patterns is critical, indexing holes will be included. The 
payload suppliers will be required to provide an interface drill template for 
each of their sensors and/or electronic boxes. 

After all the equipment is loaded into the structure, an optical alignment 
will be made on all equipment where alignment is critical. With the completion 
of optical alignment, the thermal control barriers and solar panels will be 
installed. The completed vehicle will then be released to Systems Test for 
completion of their functions. Manufacturing will continue to support all 
required testing under the Test Engineer's direction. All test activity, both 
planned and unplanned events, will be controlled using the IRS Configuration 
records. 

8.3 TOOLING 

8.3.1 MANUFACTURING TOOLING 

These contract tools are nondeliverable items used to aid in the fabrication, 
assembly, test, handling, and transportation of program hardware. Existing S3 
tooling will be used extensively for BSRM. Manufacturing Engineering will 
determine any new tooling required based on the dimensional, interchangeability, 
handling, and protection requirements of the BSRM spacecraft. These will be 
ordered by the manufacturing engineer and designed by tool designers who are 
also responsible for the tool's ability to perform its intended function. 

Manufacturing engineers will use Boeing "standard tools" to the maximum extent 
possible by calling for their use in the manufacturing planning orders. Upon 
completion, tools are inspected and their first usage witnessed by Quality 
Control to ensure that the end product meets engineering design requirements. 

8.3.2 FABRICATION TOOLING 

These tools are used to facilitate the.making of detail parts. Existing S3 
fabrication tooling will be used extensively for BSRM. The philosophy for 
fabrication of any new tools will be to use only those necessary to control 
conf iguration, tolerances, and interchangeabil ity. Due to the limited number 
of end items to make, they will be multipurpose ib6 accomplish several functions 
in one position. Common, readily available material will be used for their 
construction to be cost effective. 

Experience on other programs with similar quantities of high-value, high-toleVance 
parts has proven the most cost-effective approach is to rely heavily on skilled 
machine setups, and shop-made aids. Careful sequencing of assemblies and thought- 
ful consideration to assembly tool ing will also assist in minizing fabrication 
tooling. 


802 

D180-18450-3 



THE 


COMPANY 


Manufacturing Engineering will work very closely with the designers during the 
early design phase in order that manufacturing considerations and tooling 
philosophy will be consistently applied throughout the program. This working 
relationship has been successful on many previous Boeing spacecraft programs 
resulting in a low-cost fabrication approach which is now ingrained in the 
design organization. 

8.4 MANUFACTURING ORGANIZATION 

The Manufacturing Manager is responsible to the Program Manager while maintain- 
ing a reporting relationship to the BAC Manufacturing Director. The Manager's 
function is to organize, set policy and provide direction for his team members. 
This system allows the flexibility of assigning qualified personnel between job 
areas to assure a timely completion of program tasks and needs. 

The dedicated manufacturing organizations have highly skilled employees with an 
average work experience of 13 years in the building of high-reliability space 
hardware. These employees are selected for their extensive knowledge of manu- 
facturing and testing techniques and for their ability to work closely with 
the design engineers for breadboarding effort and with the manufacturing 
engineers in an efficient and cost-conscious manner to produce the deliverable 
hardware. 

8.4.1 MANUFACTURING ENGINEERING 

Manufacturing Engineers are the key personnel on the manufacturing team. Their 
responsibil ity is: 

o To work with Engineering to develop an economical, 
reproducible design; 

o To work with Materiel to order the correct material 
in sufficient quantity and have it arrive in a timely 
manner to support schedule; 

o To work with shop personnel to fabricate and/or assemble 
their equipment items {using the IRS System); and 

o To report status on all phases of their equipment item to 
the program Industrial Engineer for summary and 
presentation. 

This system provides for early visibility into any potential problem area to 
affect an immediate solution. 

The Manufacturing Engineer utilizes the Integrated Record System (IRS) order 
to direct the activities of the project shop. The IRS order schedules the 
work, directs the sequencing of effort and records all activities that occur 
in the fabrication, assembly or testing of any given item. Unplanned events, 
such as rejections, are also recorded on the IRS order. Manufacturing 
Engineering will provide data and technical support to the BSRM Change Board 
through the assigned Manufacturing board member. When the Change Board has 
approved a change. Manufacturing Engineering initiates revised or new IRS 
manufacturing engineering planning based on released "changed" engineering. 

803 

D180-18450-3 



TMK 


COMPANY 


8.4.2 INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING 

Manufacturing cost and schedule information is developed by Industrial 
Engineers, and reported to the Manufacturing Manager on a weekly basis. The 
Industrial Engineer develops No. 1 flow schedules from the program schedule 
at a Tier III level (sub-system components) with costs allocated and collected 
at the P/N level. Actual costs are allocated, collected, summarized and 
evaluated by part number at both the manhour and dollar level. 

8.4.3 MANUFACTURING PLANNING 


Manufacturing planning, as referred to in this plan, is a method of communica- 
tion between the engineering requirements of what is to be fabricated, assembled 
and tested and the manufacturing shops where the actual work is performed. The 
purpose of this communication is to provide a set of instructions covering the 
required drawings, specifications, raw material , purchased parts, and sequence 
of operations. Manufacturing planning also provides a permanent set of fabri- 
cation, assembly and test records whereby configuration, traceabil ity, seriala- 
zation and quality acceptance can be logically and sequentially maintained. 

This planning function is performed by the Manufacturing Engineers and Tool 
Production Planners. 


804 

D180-18450-3 



THE 


COMPANY 


9.0 CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT PLAN 

The configuration management function includes the analysis of configuration 
requirements, coordination with the procuring agency for proper interpretation, 
configuration policy direction to the functional organizations within the 
project, and the definition of configuration requirements for subcontractors 
and suppliers. This configuration management plan will provide the controls 
to ensure compliance with a uniform system of configuration definition, 
identification, control and accounting. 

9.1 ORGANIZATION 


The System Assurance Manager is responsible for Configuration Management. He 
represents the Space Support and Propulsion System Manager in all matters 
relating to Configuration Management for all projects assigned to the Space 
Support and Propulsion System Organization. The configuration management 
function is covered under a Customer Management Practices Staff which formu- 
lates and publishes the directives and procedures as approved by the 
appropriate levels of management. 

The Configuration Manager has a twofold responsibility: he is responsible for 

keeping informed of Company Customer Management Practices and has the authority 
to execute those directives and procedures. He also supports the Project 
Manager of each project in determining the contractual requirements for con- 
figuration management and implementing company procedures to comply with those 
requirements. 

9.2 CHANGE CONTROL 


The SS&PS organization has a. Design Change Control Board. This board is 
chaired by a designated Change Board Manager. Each of the organizations has 
members assigned to the Change Board. The board convenes at the request of 
the Change Board Manager. Any functional member of the Change Board may 
request a Change Board Meeting to consider any deviation to the initial 
commitments that may affect design schedules, budgets or contractual require- 
ments. Each functional organization member assigned to the Change Board has 
the responsibility and authority to make commitments for the performance of 
work in his functional area. 

9.2.1 SPECIFICATION PREPARATION 


System and end item specifications are prepared by Engineering to provide the 
requirements and design criteria to meet the mission requirements. Format 
and presentation of requirements are coordinated with Engineering by the 
configuration management organization. The specifications are routed within 
engineering and supporting technology staffs for technical verification and 
approvals by affected groups. When approved by management, the specifications 
are placed under the control of the Configuration Management Organization and 
submitted to the procuring agency for approval. 


901 

D180- 18450-3 



THE 


COMPANY 


9.2.2 ENGINEERING RELEASE 

After approval by the procuring agency, the specifications are formally 
released for use through Engineering Release Control, a function of the 
Configuration Management Organization. Engineering is responsible for design 
which is accomplished by drawings prepared and released according to the 
requirements of the end item specification. The spacecraft baseline and the 
hardware design requirements baseline is established at the Configuration Item 
Design Review (CIDR). 

9.2.3 ENGINEERING CHANGES 

After CIDR any change or addition to the specifications, engineering drawings 
or data will be classed and controlled by the Configuration Management Organ- 
ization as a Class I or Class II change. Figures 9.2-1 and 9.2-2 illustrate 
the controls and approvals required for Class I and Class II changes. 

Class I changes and Class II changes (other than liaison type) are initiated 
by Engineering, using an Engineering Change Memo (ECM) which includes reason 
for change, technical description of change, impact on reliability, schedule, 
configuration, testing and performance. The ECM is routed within Engineering 
for verification and approval. Configuration Management Organization 
verifies the class and assigns a control number. The change is controlled 
internally by the ECM which is distributed to functional organizations 
(Materiel, Manufacturing, Quality Control, Finance and Contracts) prior to 
a Change Board Meeting. All Functional organizations participate in the 
Change Board evaluation of all changes to schedule and commit the change 
which will assure timely implementation and completion. 

9. 2. 3.1 ECP Preparation. Class I change data is derived from the Engineering 
Change Memo (ECM). The Engineering Change Proposal (ECP) and the Specifica- 
tion Change Notice (SCN) and Specification Change Log (SCL) are prepared by 
Engineering Design and the Configuration Management Organization. This ECP/SCN 
package is approved by the Configuration Manager, the Engineering Manager, 

and the Project Manager, prior to submittal to the procuring agency for 
approval. After approval of the ECP by the procuring agency, the change is 
incorporated in the specifications and engineering drawings which are released 
for production. 

The Engineering Change Memo. (ECM) for a Class IT change will be released for 
implementation when the Procuring Agency Technical Representative has verified 
the classification. 

9. 2. 3. 2 Change Control Administration . Once an ECP is proposed the Program 
Planning and Scheduling organization monitors the steps required to obtain an 
ECP submittal, approval, and implementation and completion. This control is 
documented and reviewed at periodic management meetings. 


902 

D180-18450-3 



THE 


JBT£7JFSA/£Z COMPAN 



903 

D180-18450-3 


FIGURE 9.2-1: CI.AG3 I CITAKQE- PROCESSING 



































PROCURING ' VERIFY 

AGCNCr CLASS 



FIGURE 9.2-2: CLASS II CHANGE PROCESSING 
































THE 


COMPANY 


The Change Board is chaired by a Change Board Manager reporting to the Project 
Manager. Planning and scheduling is based on the Change Board commitments 
and is monitored at the management meetings which include participation of the 
Configuration and Change Board Managers. This provides current, clear visi- 
bility, and monitoring at the management level to assure adequate, proper, 
and timely change control. 

9.2.4 DESIGN REVIEWS AND CIDR 


In accordance with established practices, the contractor will conduct in-house 
design reviews, scheduled prior to drawing release of all spacecraft subsysems. 
During these reviews the cognizant designers will present their designs, 
showing the rationale for the selected configuration and method of compliance 
with all requirements, including reliability and maintainability. The project 
manager, systems integration, reliability, manufacturing engineering, and 
related design and staff organizations will participate in these reviews. The 
agenda for the reviews will include the results of trade studies, critical 
processes, reliability potential, design margins and possible problem areas. 
Design review minutes, containing action items and close-out responsibility, 
will be distributed to affected organizations. The results of reviews will 
be presented at the CIDR and as part of the Reliability Status information 
reported on during the Technical Management/Program Status meetings. 

A Configuration Item Design Review (CIDR) will be held at the Contractor's 
facility. Contractor will provide a co-chairman and will conduct the CIDR 
in accordance with, and with the approval of the Procuring Agency. During 
the CIDR, the spacecraft baseline design will be presented and will be 
reviewed, in detail, for compliance with all requirements. 

Configuration Management Organization will have the responsibility for prepara- 
tion and coordination of the agenda(s), design review minutes, and follow-up 
on action items. 

9.2.5 PRE-ACCEPTANCE REVIEW 

Contractor will provide and conduct, with the approval of the Procuring Agency, 
a Pre-Acceptance Review of all his deliverable hardware. Contractor will 
provide a co-chairman and necessary supplies and services. Configuration 
Management will provide the following: 

a. Coordinated and approved Agenda, 

b. Minutes of the Pre-Acceptance Review. 

c. Responsibility for follow-up to clear action items. 

d. A Master Drawing List, marked to notify the cognizant engineer of 
outstanding advance drawing change notices (ADCN), which are to be 
incorporated prior to Pre-Acceptance Review. 


905 

D180-18450-3 



THE 


COMPANY 


e. A Final Master Drawing List and a "Drawing and Data Requirements 
Complete" (DDRC) summary to Quality Control for review to ensure 
that all changes are incorporated in the hardware and the data 
package is in agreement with the latest issue of the drawing. 

f. A complete set of up-to-date drawings (no ADCN's) of the hardware- 

g. The up-to-date approved System Specification and the up-to-date 
approved hardware end item specifications. Part 1 1 s - 

h. Documented Quality Assurance Verification data of the hardware. 

Manufacturing will supply a copy of the as-run acceptance test data with 
completed Quality Control approvals. 

9.2.5 CONFIGURATION INDEXING AND ACCOUNTING 

The configuration will be documented in accordance with existing practices 
including the use of USAF record forms or equivalent. Configuration identifi- 
cation numbers comply with the requirements of Exhibit X of AFSCM 375-1. 
Contractor will continue to use the drawing numbering system established for 
the Burner II Program. Contractor's standard drawing practices comply with 
the intent of MIL-D-1000 and MIL-STD-100A. The configuration will be identi- 
fied at every level of assembly, on every deliverable item, by engineering 
drawings and specifications. 

9. 2. 5.1 Engineering Release. Records . Engineering release records provide 
all the elements of data required by Exhibit XII of AFSCM 375-1. Contractor 
maintains configuration accounting records to disclose the configuration status 
of each end item to maintain proper control and the capability of processing 
Class I changes. 

9. 2. 5. 2 Control Practices . The contractor's practices exceed the minimum 
standards for control of engineering, manufacturing documentation, and 
related administrative records. These capabilities are used to control the 
incorporating of Class I engineering changes in contract end items, to 
reconcile Engineering Work Authorizations to contract requirements, to verify 
that released engineering and purchase orders are in accordance with the 
contract, to assure that engineering design and changes are manufactured and 
installed as required by released engineering data, and to document engineering 
change incorporation. 

9.2. 5. 3 M&IRS . As a part of the overall Boeing Configuration Management Plan 
Boeing uses integrated record system throughout the manufacturing cycle. Upon 
receipt of distributed drawings , the Manufacturing Engineers prepare and 
release shop orders for the fabrication, assembly, installation and test 
sequencing. The format of the shop orders is the Boeing "Manufacturing 
Integrated Record System." This system provides the definition of the work 

to be done, the shop to which the work is assigned, the recording of in-process 
inspections, attachment of all test data and unplanned events, recording of 
the completion, and provides an inspection record for historical data. 


906 

D180-18450-3 



THE 


COMPANY 


This system provides complete configuration control of the hardware in that 
it correlates and verifies that the configuration of the hardware, inspection 
records, and drawings are the same, or records all approved deviations. 

In addition to retention by Quality Control of all completed inspection records. 
Manufacturing maintains records of all shop orders released and completed to 
assure that all authorized work is in fact completed. 

Manufacturing Engineering is made aware of all changes by close working rela- 
tions with Engineering Design. Since all parts list revision and drawings 
revision vellums come to Manufacturing Engineering for processing prior to 
release, a direct control of all change activity is assured. Accurate status 
of work in process is provided to properly commit changes. 

The completed Manufacturing and Inspection Records will contain the data to 
verify the completion of development, qualification, and production acceptance 
tests. 

The Integrated Record System provides a comparison of released engineering 
and inspection records to the actual hardware for verification of total com- 
pliance with end item top drawing. These records are the Quality Assurance 
verification of the flight worthy condition of the vehicle at Pre-Acceptance 
Review and delivery. 

9.3 BASELINE CONTROL 


Baseline Control is a management technique used to establish a definable point 
of departure for control of future changes to the system and end item specifi- 
cations. 

9.3.1 SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS BASELINE 

The mission requirements baseline is defined by an approved system specifica- 
tion. After approval, the system specification may be changed only by an 
approved Class I change. 

9.3.2 DESIGN REQUIREMENTS BASELINE 

The design requirements baseline for end item equipments and approval of Part I 
of the end item specification is established at the Configuration Item Design 
Review. The approved Part I may be changed only by an approved Class I 
change. The design will be reviewed at the same time that Part I of each end 
item specification is reviewed and approved. The CIDR minutes will contain 
any agreed changes to be made to drawings and specifications prior to granting 
approval . 

9.3.3 PRODUCT CONFIGURATION BASELINE 


The product configuration baseline is defined by released engineering drawing. 

This baseline is established at the Pre-Acceptance Review. After establish- 
ment of the product configuration baseline, all changes to end item specifications 
and drawings will be prepared and submitted according to the instructions of 
ANA Bulletin 445. 

907 

D180-18450-3 



THE 


COMPANY 


9.4 ENGINEERING DRAWINGS 


Drawings are prepared in accordance with Boeing Drafting Standards Manual 
PM93A1. These standards comply with the requirements of MIL-D-1000. The 
Boeing Drafting Standard Manual was developed as the means of ensuring com- 
pliance with Government requirements while maintaining the most practical 
and economical degree of standardization. The Drafting Standards includes 
drawing requirements , identification requirements, drafting practices, release 
procedure, drawing changes and quality assurance. 

Detail assembly and installation drawings, prepared in accordance with the 
drafting standards, convert the requirements of the End Item Specification, 

Part I, into drawings, documents and control specifications. These data are 
used to define and produce the equipments which make up the system. 

Each drawing is assigned a unique drawing number. A master numerical list 
and master drawing tree list will be maintained to provide ready drawing 
entry into any level of the system. I 

All drawings and related data are. prepared in accordance with MIL-D-1000 
and MIL-STD-100, except data for components procured as standard commercial 
parts. Such components will comply with commercial drawing practices. 

9.4.1 DRAWING INFORMATION 

Drawings contain the basic information as required by AFSCM 375-1, Exhibit XII, 
and the following: 

a. Engineering requirements such as quantity, material, dimensions, 
tolerance, form and finish. 

b. Reference to specification and standard requirements for materials , 
processes, treatments, test methods and procedures. 

c. Assembly, test, adjustment and calibration information. 

d. Identification marking including part number and serial number 
effecti vi ties. 

9.4.2 DRAWING RELEASE 

The drawing release system is designed to maintain control of all drawing 
release activity beginning with the authorization to proceed with engineering. 
The Engineering Release Control function maintains a release status record 
to ensure that all drawings related to the basic design or engineering changes 
are released as scheduled. 

9.4.3 DRAWING REVIEW 


The technical review of drawings is accomplished within the Engineering 
Organization by the design groups affected and by supporting technologies. 
Engineering management signatures are required to ensure the appropriate 
technical reviews are accomplished. All assembly and installation drawings 


DO 6000 2145 ORtG. 4/7 1 


908 

D180-18450-3 



THE 


COMPANY 


are reviewed for reliability and safety. The nontechnical review for format, 
legibility and appropriate signatures is accomplished by the Release Control 
function. 

9.4.4 DRAWING CONTROLS 


Once a drawing is released, it, is placed under -rigid control . Approval must 
be obtained from the Release Control Organization prior to obtaining the 
drawing original from the vault. An approved change must be in evidence prior 
to granting this approval. 

9.4.5 DRAWING CHANGES 

Revisions to released design must be processed by an approved Class I or Class 
II change. The design may be revised by new drawings, revised drawings, or 
Advanced Drawing Change Notices (ADCN) or a combination of these. The revision 
will completely define and illustrate the changes to detail parts, assemblies, 
and installations and provide new part and assembly numbers, production 
effectivi ties , change authority, parts list corrections, and instructions for 
disposition or rework of superseded parts. 

9.4.6 RELEASE SYSTEM 


The SS&PS Organization uses a Progressive Release System for new design and 
extensive design changes. This system provides for the release of engineering 
in quantity sufficient to permit Materiel to place orders for long lead items 
and Manufacturing Engineering to develop and implement a Manufacturing Plan 
on a scheduled basis simultaneously with Engineering Design. The basic 
engineering design will be released subsequent to the CIDR of each end item. 

All drawings and engineering data which pertain to the manufacture and test - 
of the end article are routed through Manufacturing Engineering, Quality Control 
and Materiel for prerelease coordination to ensure the availability of parts 
and the producibility of the article to meet schedules. Released drawings 
and data are distributed to department files for "authorized, validated 
blueprint" file use. 

9.5 SPECIFICATIONS 

Boeing will prepare, the System and Cl specifications to include the total 
mission definition and requirements to the extent necessary to provide an 
integrated system. The system specification will include: 

o The use and description of the total system. 

o Performance requirements of the total system. 

o Requirements related to manning, operating, maintaining and logis- 
tically supporting the total system to the extent these requirements 
define or constrain design. 

o The principle interfaces between the spacecraft and the other mission 
segments with which it must be compatible. 


909 

D180-18450-3 


THE 


COMPANY 


The contract item specification will provide the requirements for performance 
and operation of the satellite. Part I of this specification, when approved 
at CIDR will define the hardware requirements baseline. No Part II 's of the 
end item specifications will be prepared or submitted for review and approval. 

The product configuration baseline will be controlled by the end item top and 
subordinate drawings. Inspection of the design drawings and hardware and the 
acceptance test data at preacceptance review confirms the interfaces and 
hardware compliance. The final confirmation of all hardware interface compat- 
ibilities will be established at the launch facility during assembly, test 
and checkout. After preacceptance review and delivery of the hardware, any 
change to specifications or delivered hardware is initiated and controlled 
according to ANA Bulletin 445. 

9.5.1 INTERFACE MAINTENANCE 

The interface control agreement between the Contractor and any Associate 
Contractor requires a coordinated and approved interface control drawing, 
defining the interfaces of contractor and associate produced equipment, which 
will be incorporated in both the Contractor and Associate Contractor approved 
specifications. Any proposed changes to these interface control drawings 
after approval of the specifications, will require separate coordinated ECP's 
to each specification. The procuring agency will approve each ECP by a change 
order to each contract. Thus, approved changes will be documented by inter- 
face control drawings as a binding agreement on the Contractor and the Associated 
Contractor. 

The ECP forms describing Class I changes to an interface control drawing will 
be accomplished by a Specification Change Notice (SCN) for each drawing 
affected. A Specification Change Log (SCL) will list all SCN 1 s for each 
specification affected by the change. A specification identification index 
will be maintained to identify all contractor specifications and the approved 
changes to each. 

9.6 SUBCONTRACTOR/ VENDOR CONTROL 

Subcontractors, vendors and suppliers will comply with the requirements 
Boeing Document D2-23534, "Burner II General Requirements Document (Supplement 
to Control Drawing)." Requirements from this document are made applicable 
through the source or specification control drawing. Compliance with the 
stated requirements are verified at procurement milestones such as design 
reviews and first article configuration inspections. Test plan, procedures, 
reports and drawings are submitted to Boeing for review and approval. 

Reproducible copies of this data are received and maintained in Contractor's 
engineering vault. All or portions of the data may be included in Contractor 
documents to substantiate qualification of equipment. 

Proposed changes must be submitted to Boeing for approval prior to incorpora- 
tion. After establishment of the supplier product configuration baseline, 
changes are subject to the Class I and II change procedures. Proposed Class 
I changes will not be incorporated prior to the approval of the procuring 
agency. The ECP will be prepared and submitted by Boeing. 


910 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2145 ORlG. 4/7 1 



THI 


COMPANY 


10.0 DATA MANAGEMENT PLAN 


The data management-, system used, successful ly on the SAMSO Burner II/IIA, SESP, 
and STP programs during the past 10 years will be implemented on the BSRM Pro- 
gram. The data management system recognizes the use of data to define the 
hardware, verify it meets requirements (both analytically and by test) , operate 
and maintain the hardware and provide visibility for managing the BSRM Program. 
The matrix of the interrelated documentation controlled by this plan is shown 
in Figure 10.0-1. 

Key ingredients of the data management system are: 

o Early identification of data requirements across the program, includ- 
ing both deliverable and nondeliverable data. 

o Continuing review of data requirements to preclude the dupl ication of 
like data in different data items and to eliminate unnecessary data 
generation. 

o Total CDRL schedule phasing. 

o Single-point contact on all data matters. 

o Visibility of and coordination with the program schedule and technical 
status of the program. 

o Complete support of customer data requirements, verified by weekly 
internal audits of accomplishments and near-term (one month) require- 
ments. 

o Completely documented support of reviews and formal meetings (PDR, 

CDR, ICWG, project management/program status). 

o Visibility of CDRL status at program reviews with SP0. 

10.1 ORGANIZATION AND RESPONSIBILITIES 


Data management organization for BSRM Program and its relationship to the com- 
pany and program organization is depicted in Figure 10.1-1. The responsibili- 
ties for each organizational element are also depicted. 

The BSRM Data Manager is the single-point contact for data matters. He will 
be the central authority for CDRL compliance, eliminating the possibility of 
conflicting instructions and communications flowing between customer and con- 
tractor personnel. Each data submittal will be reviewed to verify that the 
data fulfills requirements. This review ensures that any data activity requir- 
ing management attention will be emphasized immediately. 

The Data Manager assigns responsibility for each CDRL data ftenr to the appro- 
priate organizational supervisor. CDRL schedule is maintained by Program 


1001 

D180-18450-3 



THI 


COMPANY 


* 



1002 


D180-18450-3 


* 


DO 6000 2 140 ORIS. 4/7 


♦SUBMITTED FOR INFORMATION 
♦♦SUBMITTED FOR APPROVAL 

♦♦AVAILABLE AT CUSTOMER REQUEST FIGURE 10.0-1: PROGRAM DOCUMENTATION MATRIX 








THK 


COMPANY 




• _i a: q. 

LU 

o- =3 o s: 

— 1 

00 Q Li_ O 

o 

LU UlI t_> 

z 

a i _i 


o a: a: 

co 

Xl/1 □ 1 — o 


00 O Z LL. 





1003 

D180-18450-3 






THE 


COMPANY. 


Planning for visibility by both the Data Manager and the BSRM Program Manager. 
The Boeing Aerospace Company's functional data manager provides standardized 
policies and procedures for handling of data, provides information and advice 
as requested by the program for any unique problems that may arise and audits 
compliance to recognized company performance standards. 

10.2 DATA PROGRAM 

Responsibilities and methodology for discharging individual CDRL tasks will be 
contained in a BSRM CDRL requirements document to be published immediately 
after contract go-ahead. The document, to be distributed to all BSRM personnel 
responsible for preparing deliverable data, will contain the following: 

o Instructions for preparing the data, including format, special markings, 
etc. 

o Standardized interpretations and definitions of data forms, 
o Current contractual CDRL items. 

o Current addresses for exterior distribution of data. 

The document will be revised as necessary to provide current information on a 
timely basis. 

Assignment of responsibility for each data item will be made by the Data Manager 
to the lowest organizational unit supervisor. In conjunction with the Program 
Planning organization all items are scheduled and performance against schedule 
is monitored by both the Data Manager and the Program Manager. Prior to trans- 
mittal, all data is reviewed by the Data Manager to assure compliance with data 
requirements. 

Boeing practices for format and content of most data have taken into account 
AFR 310-1. Accordingly, most data to be generated will fall into data categor- 
ies III and IV. This practice provides a cost effective approach to controlling 
the data program while still meeting CDRL requirements. 


1004 

D180-18450-3 



THE 


COMPANY 


11.0 SUBCONTRACT PLAN 

s 

Monitoring and control of the business and technical aspects of subcontracting as 
described in this document will ensure on-schedule delivery of quality products 
from suppliers. The Procurement Organization ,col located with all other program 
elements, manufacturing shops, Quality Control, Program Management and Contract 
Administration provide for direct communication and control. The general require- 
ments imposed on subcontractors covering quality assurance, reliability, reporting, 
and documentation ensure visibility at this subcontract level. The relations and 
involvements of design engineering with the subcontracting function ensures control 
of subcontract technical detail and end items. 

The appropriate Company command media covering all levels of direction from Corpor- 
ate Policy down to and including departmental procedures are catalogued into a 
functional guide titled, "Aerospace Group Material Baseline Index." The require- 
ments of MIL-STD-1535 will be imposed on Boeing suppliers via imposing the exist- 
ing document D180-10127-1, Quality Control Requirements for Boeing Suppliers. 
Specific contractual requirements such as the requirements for registered compon- 
ent control will be imposed on affected suppliers by additional special notes on 
their purchase contracts. 

11.1 MATERIEL ORGANIZATION RESPONSIBILITIES 

A Materiel Manager will be assigned to the BSRM program to act with authority in 
procurement matters. He will participate in all management meetings. He will be 
exposed to the same direction and philosophy that the other members of BSRM program 
management receive. He will coordinate directly with the managers of each line 
organization providing support to his subcontractors and in a like manner, provide 
subcontractor reports and information directly to the appropriate managers. He 
will hold regularly scheduled review meetings with the Program Manager to ensure 
he is constantly apprised of subcontract status and to keep himself aware of cus- 
tomer concerns. He will be supported by an organization dedicated to subcontract 
management physically located in the program area. 

Boeing will emphasize the importance of communication between ourselves and our 
subcontractors during all phases of the program. Face-to-face discussion between 
top level management will be used to emphasize crucial program points. Regular 
management meetings will include the following: 

o Boeing Aerospace Company management will visit subcontractor management on 
site at appropriate times to promote an initial and continuing high level of 
interest in support of the program. 

o The Materiel Manager will maintain continuous contacts with the subcontractor's 
Program Manager arid Contracts Manager to assure himself of the subcontractor's 
progress. He will take a personal part in motivating the subcontractor and in 
resolving any developing problems. 

So that all levels of management are properly aware of status on all critical items, 
the Procurement Manager coordinates meetings and other communications with both 
Boeing and Customer Management. Notices of all scheduled meetings are routed and 
definite rosters of attendees established. To ensure that the Materiel Manager has 
firm control of his subcontracts, all contracts will be coordinated on a prior basis 


1101 

D180-18450-3 



THE 


COMPANY 


11 . 2 PROCUREMENT MANAGEMENT 

11.2.1 MAKE-OR-BUY 

The requirement for procurement action originates with the Make or Buy Committee, 
resulting in the establishment of subcontracts or the placement of less formal 
categories of purchase orders. The Make or Buy Committee for the BSRM program 
will be established by the Program Manager and represents Project Engineering, 
Materiel, Manufacturing, Quality Control, Facilities, and Business Management. 

The Make or Buy activities are in accordance with the provisions of Make or Buy 
Guide D2-121359-1. The formal system for regulating and controlling Make or Buy 
decisions is described in this document. These decisions will be reviewed by the 
Program Manager and Boeing Management. The following criteria are considered in 
determining the Make or Buy structure. 

o Design sensitivity of the item (firmness of specification and 
potential impact on other items). 

o Industry costs versus in-house costs. 

o Industry capability versus in-house capability. 

o Existence of qualified equipment from previous programs. 

o Benefit to customer through employment of specially qualified 
sources. 

The basis for all Make or Buy decisions will be made available for Customer review 
upon request. 

11.2.2 SUBCONTRACT TYPE 


The selection of subcontract type is recognized as a major factor in determining 
the effectiveness of a Boeing/Subcontractor relationship. It is a primary object- 
ive to achieve the lowest ultimate cost consistent with quality and delivery 
requirements. It is Boeing's objective to use firm fixed price subcontracts in 
the procurement of BSRM purchased equipment. 

11,2.3 BIDDERS LIST 

Proper selection of bidders for the various hardware and raw material items is 
critical to the success of any program. The bidders 1 ist consists of those who 
have- produced and qualified similar hardware and from contacts made during the 
preproposal, proposal and the initial design phase. Potential sources are also 
obtained from the Boeing Supplier Performance Evaluation and Report (SPEAR). The 
SPEAR report is a summary of prospective bidders past performance on Boeing pro- 
grams. Minimum considerations for potential suppliers include: 

o Previous experience in producing space proven hardware equal to or 
better than that required. 


1102 

D180- 18450-3 


DO 6000 2145 ORIG. 4/7 1 



THE 


COMPANY 


o Boeing's experience and subsequent knowledge of the supplier quality, 
technical, producibil ity and management capability. 

o Financial capability to sustain costs through period of contract. 

Progress payments will be considered if supplier requests and his 
accounting system meets all requirements for adequate monitoring. 

o Full compliance with all equal opportunity policies. 

o Minority business must be given full consideration if qualified. 

11.2. 4 REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL 

The first formal contact with potential sources is through the Request for 
Proposal. This procurement package is thoroughly reviewed by a source evalua- 
tion committee to assure all requirements are clear and unambiguous, 
redundancies are eliminated, and all prime contract flow down terms and conditions 
are included. 

11.2.4.1 Design Criteria . Most of the components in the BSRM program will be 
space-flight-proven hardware from either previous Boeing or other successful 
projects. The following priority sequence has been established for design 
selection. 

(a.) Equipment previously qualified to a Boeing source control document. 

(b.) Shelf hardware to a vendor part number which without modification or 
qualification testing will meet our environment, quality, and mission 
objectives. 

(c. ) Same as above except needing si ight modification to meet BSRM mission 
requirements. A fact sheet covering the minimum criteria is prepared 
by Boeing Engineering and included in the subcontract Request for 
Proposal. 

11.2.4.2 Risk Analysis . Every component and subsystem of the spacecraft is 
analyzed to ascertain and identify critical risk items whose failure to perform 
as required would jeopardize the spacecraft mission. Once these critical risk 
items are identified, an evaluation board consisting of Engineering, Quality 
Control, and Materiel will decide which elements of this plan, and what degree 
of application, will be assigned to each subcontract based on the level of risk. 

Risk assessment will be based on an evaluation of the following elements: 

(a.) Cost . Cost risk is directly related to the complexity of the device and 
the performance of the selected subcontractor during the extent of the 
contract. Cost risk will be minimized by utilizing firm fixed subcontracts 
made possible by the extensive use of off-the-shelf hardware. Strict 
change control will be imposed to prevent costly add-ons to fixed price 
contracts. 


1103 

D180-18450-3 



THE 


COMPANY 


(b.) Schedule . Schedule adherence is one of the most critical aspects of the 
subcontract tasks and will, if not properly controlled, have an import- 
ant effect on program costs. Past experience of good schedule performance 
will be a deciding factor in subcontractor selection. If a subcontractor 
gets into schedule difficulty, the regularly scheduled surveillance 
program will be supplemented to increase visits by appropriate Boeing team 
members to help that supplier get back on schedule. 

(c.) Technical . Tiie Engineering subsystem managers will participate in and be 
instrumental in the selection of high-risk components from a technical 
standpoint. This list will be minimized by judicial application of our 
original design objectives. Technical risk assessment is based on 
criticality, complexity, state-of-the-art design objectives, and available 
experienced suppliers. 

Each potential supplier will be asked to submit his own risk analysis to be used 
by Boeing Engineering in making a comprehensive risk assessment. 

11.2.4.3 Potential Problems/Solutions . Component part procurement at the subcon- 
tract level has been a major schedule hazard during similar satellite programs, 
and the projected business environment does not indicate any improvement for the 
period of time for the BSRM program. The following disciplines will be implemented 
to minimize component part shortages that might affect schedules or cost. 

o Basic design pol icy selects equipment not requiring extensive 
design or development built to an existing vendor part number 
with components similar to subcontractors standard line. 

o Subcontractor will be authorized to order long lead items 
early in the program. 

o Boeing will verify the selection of components most likely 
to be in stock or relatively short lead time acquisition. 

o Parts will be furnished from Boeing's assets if subcontractor 
cannot procure in time to support the schedule. Fixed price 
contracts will be adjusted accordingly. 

o Boeing will stay alert of second tier subcontractor problems 
and assist suppliers when necessary. 

o Boeing purchasing specialists will help locate sources to 
support subcontractors. 

11.2.4.4 Proposal Evaluation . An analysis and evaluation of supplier proposals 
is necessary whether the proposal is from a single source or is a result of com- 
petitive bidding. The evaluation includes a thorough review of the technical, 
cost/price, and management proposals. Personnel performing the analysis are the 
Source Evaluation Committees established for each procurement item. 


1104 

D180-18450-3 



THE 


COMPANY 


(a.) The Materiel Manager, Engineering, Quality Control, and Manufacturing 
personnel evaluate the technical proposals on the basis of how well 
the proposer understands the design, specifications, statement of work, 
manufacturing, and quality requirements. Thorough probing is required 
to determine the adequacy of the technical solution to performance and 
verification requirements, and in other areas such as identification 
i of risks; exceptions to the. statement of work; alternate solutions; 
consideration of manufacturing, test and operational problems; and 
understanding the end-use of the procured item. 

(b.) The cost proposal from subcontractors is reviewed by cost analysts 

from the Materiel and Finance organizations. These analysts review the 
proposals for completeness of cost breakdowns and supporting data. On 
critical procurements, fact-finding sessions are conducted at the sub- 
contractors' plants. The analysts ensure that the most current data is 
obtained complying with Public Law 87-653 requirements. If necessary, 
Boeing also requests audit assistance from the Defense Contract Audit 
Agency. 

(c.) The Management analysis and evaluation determines whether a supplier, 
who may have the test technical solution and price, can manage the job. 

Some of the management criteria Boeing evaluates are: 

o Subcontractor schedules for compatibility with program schedules 
and realistic in view of the subcontractor's work-load projections. 

o Adequate management and controls applied by the subcontractor for 
internal administration of the subcontract. 

o The potential subcontractor's quality control organization, policy, 
standards, facilities, and methods to control rejected materials, 
as well as his records system. 

o The subcontractor evidence of configuration management procedures 
for the type of work covered, including change control. 

o The subcontractor's ability to provide adequate cost/schedule 
performance data. 

o The subcontractor's compliance with the subcontract terms and 

conditions, such as Small, and Minority Business and New Technology. 

Source surveys are conducted by the evaluation committee to ensure that the sub- 
contractor's existing technical, production, and business systems are capable of 
performing to contract requirements. A survey schedule will be established by 
joint action of Materiel, Quality Control, Engineering and Manufacturing. Pre- 
liminary surveys, where deemed necessary to protect program schedule, will be 
made during the evaluation period. Surveys will be planned to permit the 
survey team to take advantage of geographical groupings and minimize travel costs 


1105 

D180-18450-3 



THE 


COMPANY 


Boeing preaward survey of suppliers of critical components, designated as "regist- 
ered components", will enable technical review and assessment of the proposed 
manufacturing and processing techniques to be used during production. Information 
will be furnished to the supplier in advance of the preaward survey to ensure 
availability of manufacturing and inspection steps for Boeing review and approval. 

Boeing has assisted suppliers of critical hardware on prior programs to prepare 
similar data for analysis of critical processes, identifying the general manufact- 
uring step involved (i.e., chan milling, plating, welding, bonding, etc.), and 
methods used for examination. The supplier will be required to include in the 
data, or as an attachment thereto, the specific packaging and preservation methods 
to be used and the handling and transportation requirements where these are 
required. Subcontractor format will be acceptable provided the necessary informa- 
tion is included. 

11.2.5 SUBCONTRACT MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL 

Once sources have been selected and subcontracts negotiated, subcontractors will 
be monitored to ensure that they meet their contractual requirements technically, 
economically, and on schedule. Boeing specifies subcontractor reporting require- 
ments as necessary to ensure compliance with prime contract requirements and to 
ensure visibility and performance measurement. Boeing tries to use the system the 
supplier uses internally to manage his program. This approach ensures minimum 
development of unique data consistent with good management visibility and control. 
Requirements of the prime contract that must be made a part of our subcontract 
packages are identified and incorporated into our negotiated subcontracts. 

11.2.5.1 Registered Components . Registered components are defined as critical 
i terns . A critical item can be considered as a subsystem, item of equipment, or 
component that is vital to the proper performance of the systems and whose failure 
may seriously impair or cause complete failure of the systems. Practical examples 
of items requiring special consideration include unproven items, advanced state- 
of-the-art items, items requiring significant design work, items determined to be 
high risk and high value, or high reliability items. The above definition will be 
applied to the BSRM design in accordance with the following ground rules: 

o Functionally redundant items are not registered. 

o Items with predominant failure modes that result in "mission 
acceptable degradation" are not registered. 

o Off-the-shelf items that are flight-proven and qualified to 
BSRM environments are not registered. 

On subcontracts for registered components, Boeing establishes a team of experts who 
coordinate in directing the activities of the subcontractor and in resolving any 
problems that occur. Their primary task is to provide a real time interface 
between the subcontractor and the program and verify that all requirements are met 
in a timely and cost effective manner. This team consists of the responsible buyer 
with assigned specialists from Engineering, Quality Control, Finance and support 
functions of Materiel. Specific tasks to be accomplished include: 


1106 

D180-18450-3 


DO 6000 2145 ORIG. 4/71 



THE 


COMPANY 


o Assist the subcontractor in the interpretation of Boeing requirements 
as set forth in contractual documents and specifications. 

o Assist the subcontractor in identifying and obtaining the required 
inputs from Boeing, i.e., data approvals, test approvals, government 
furnished equipment, etc. 

o Review and/or approve all critical lower tier procurements placed by 
the subcontractor. 

o Review and monitor data, information, and milestones within their 
respective areas to ensure that the subcontractor is performing 
adequately to satisfy contract objectives. 

o Maintain an effective and aggressive communication with respective 
subcontract counterparts pointing out areas of potential problems 
affecting quality, product design, costs, schedules, or any other 
factors relating to the contract. 

o Monitor and report weekly on subcontractor progress to the program 
manager. Provide early identification of problems and assist in 
resolution. 

o Assist the subcontractor in preparing for porgram reviews, design 
reviews, and technical interchanges, ensuring that all contract data 
requirements are met. 

o Monitor the subcontractor's approved Quality Assurance program for 
compliance. 

o Conduct selected mandatory inspections on in-process hardware. 

o Monitor configuration management practices and ensure compl iance with 
subcontract requirements. 

o Accomplish the initial review and recommendations of subcontractor test 
procedures. Provide approval of restarts found necessary during test, 
thus eliminating cost and schedule slides inherent in a normal approval 
cycle. 

o Witness developmental, qualification, and acceptance testing from both 
quality and technical viewpoints. Review and accept or reject test 
data, and participate in the review and acceptance of deliverable 
hardware. 

11.2.5.2 Configuration Management . Subcontract requirements for supplier config 
uration management are defined in the subcontract statement of work, the supplier 
data requirements list, and as applicable, supplier data descriptions. A signifi 
cant element is required for control and accountability of registered components. 


1107 

D180-18450-3 


THE 


COMPANY 


Registered components will be identified by a notation on the engineering drawing. 
When registered components are procured, the purchase contracts will require the 
supplier to provide detailed manufacturing and processing plans to be used during 
manufacturing for review and approval for production commences. When approved, 
the supplier will not be permitted to deviate from the plan until Boeing has re- 
viewed and approved the proposed change. 

11.2.5.3 Changes and Change Control . The control of changes is one of the most 
important aspects of subcontract management. A change that may seem insignificant 
with respect to the specification may result in excessive increased costs and 
serious schedule disruptions if not properly recognized and handled correctly. 

The effective control of changes requires constant attention to three basic aspects 
of the problem: 

(a.) The necessity and. priority of any changes proposed by either the contractor 
or the subcontractor will be coordinated between the procurement manager 
and the subsystem manager and reviewed by the Program Change Board, which 
includes representatives from Materiel, Engineering, Program Control, and 
other concerned organizations. The primary purpose of this review is to 
keep both the number of changes and their cost and schedule effects to an 
absolute minimum consistent with the success of the program. 

(b. ) Coordination between the Materiel manager and the subcontractor determines 
the timing of the change to achieve the minimum adverse effect on costs and 
production schedules. 

(c.) Pricing of changes will receive the same close attention as an original 
procurement of the same magnitude. The Materiel Manager will use sub- 
contractor data, in-house estimates, contractor or Government audit 
and planned negotiation to ensure a fair and reasonable price. Emphasis 
will be placed on negotiating change proposals promptly and definitizing 
the subcontract without delay. 

Once the necessity for a contractor-initiated change has been determined by the 
Program Change Board, the buyer must immediately forward the technical description 
to the supplier of the affected equipment, requesting him to advise concerning the 
cost and schedule effect of implementing it in accordance with the priority 
assigned. On high-priority changes, it may be necessary to tell the supplier to 
proceed with implementation prior to receiving a firm, substantiated cost proposal. 

He will be asked to furnish immediately a "not-to-exceed" budgetary price that can 
be sued to determine the effect on subsystem budget until a firm price can be 
negotiated. 

Source Quality Control will be responsible to ensure that the supplier has complied 
with change effectivity requirements and that configuration records are complete 
and accurate before the subcontracted hardware is shipped. 

11.2.5.4 Qua! ity Control . Quality Control is responsible for all quality activities 
associated with procured items from the buy decision through Boeing acceptance of the 
item at the subcontractor level or upon acceptance of its shipping desgination. When 
a contract has been approved, the supplier will not be permitted to deviate from the 
plan until Boeing has reviewed and approved the proposed change. 


1108 

D180-18450-3 



THE 


COMPANY 


(a.) Quality Control personnel participate as members of management teams and 
source selection boards in selecting qualified sources and ensuring that 
selected subcontractors possess adequate facilities, systems, and config- 
uration management capabilities for producing quality products and services. 

(b.) Quality Control evaluates supplier proposals for adequacy of Quality 

Assurance provisions and responsiveness to proposal requirements. Suppliers 
are ranked in order of preference and data provided to the board chairman. 
Objective evidence of evaluations will be maintained on file. 

(c.) The subcontractor requirements is the existing provisions contained in 

Quality Control Requirements for Boeing Suppliers, Document D1 80-1 0127-1 , 
and special purchase order note resulting from MIL-STD-1535. 

(d.) Quality Control participated in the preqward surveys of prospective 

suppliers. Supplier quality system surveys will be conducted prior to 
start of manufacturing to ensure compliance with D1 80-1 01 27-1 and MIL-STD- 
1535. A system is maintained for the authorization and listing of approved 
procurement sources. The supplier is resurveyed annually to determine his 
continued ability to satisfy his contractual quality requirements. 

(e.) Purchase documentation will be reviewed prior to release to verify the 
inclusion of requirements for qualifications or approvals, configuration 
accountabil ity provisions, and customer inspections unique to the individ- 
ual procurement, ensuring that appropriate documentation is submitted to 
the customer for review and approval. 

(f.) Source Control engineers will provide technical review of specification 
control drawings and supplier drawings to ensure adequacy of quality 
requirements. Comments will be provided to engineering and follow-up 
accomplished to verify resolution. Quality Control engineering personnel 
shall participate in preliminary design review, critical design review and 
first article inspection at supplier locations. 

(g.) Surveillance work plans to be initiated by quality planning for use by 

field quality representatives. The plans will document the control points 
necessary to check that the supplier is adhering to product, system, and 
process requirements. The hardware inspections, data review, and test 
■ b observances and their frequencies will be outlined. The work plans provide 
area for entries by the representative for objective evidence of compliance. 

(h.) Registered Components will be identified by a notation on the engineering 
drawing. The purchase contracts require the supplier to provide detailed 
manufacturing and processing plans to be used during manufacturing for 
review and approval before production commences. 

11.2.5.5 Program Reviews. Frequent program reviews are conducted at the subcon- 
tractor's facility to assess program progress, problem areas encountered, 
corrective action taken or anticipated, status of action items, costs, and other 
related subjects. Program reviews are attended by the Materiel Manager and 
selected program personnel. These reviews serve to supplement reports and to 
maintain controls to ensure total contract and program compliance. Critical items 
are reviewed on an established schedule. The customer will be invited to attend 
these review meetings. 

1109 ' 

man-18450-3 


THE 


COMPANY 


11.2 ,5. 6 Premanufacturing Surveys . Premanufacturing surveys on critical items 
are conducted^ after CDR to ensure that subcontractors are prepared and understand 
engineering and manufacturing requirements, processes, and quality plans and pro- 
cedures. These surveys are conducted by qualified management and technical 
personnel from the program or other Boeing locations as designated by the Program 
Manager. 

11.3 OTHER PROCUREMENT MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS 

11.3.1 ACCOUNTABILITY - GOVERNMENT PROPERTY 

The accoantabil ity for tools, special test equipment, materials, and parts furn- 
ished or owned by the Government is one of the subcontractor's responsibilities. 
The subcontract contains provisions to ensure compliance with these requirements. 
Controls include periodic audits of contractor and supplier records and reports. 
Boeing also performs a physical inventory, inspection of conditions, markings, 
and storage arrangements. Surveillance is conducted in close liaison with the 
program finance and quality control organizations. 

11. 3. 2 SUPPORT SERVICES 

Support the total procurement system, a support service organization initiates and 
maintains the necessary command media to verify that our subcontracting procedures 
are in compliance with company policies and Government regulations. This organi- 
zation prepares reports on small business, minority business, geographic 
distribution of project dollars. Defense Material Services, New Technology 
Reports, and GFE Accountability and Status Reports as required by NASA. 

11.4 CUSTOMER REPORTING 


Subcontractor status reporting will be accomplished on those "critical" subcontractors 
selected for monthly reporting as mutually agreed upon by the customer and Boeing. 
Existing formats for reporting subcontractor surveillance will be used. The reports 
are based on the results of planned team visits to supplier plants, quality sur- 
veillance at supplier plants, monthly reporting from the supplier, PDR's and CDR's 
at the supplier facility, telecon record reporting, and CDRL submittals of test 
plans, procedures and reports. 

11.4.1 HIGH RISK ITEM SURVEILLANCE 

Registered Critical components require special supplier surveillance especially 
from a schedule standpoint. Recent Boeing Space Test Program experience suggests 
surveillance of subcontractor schedules is desirable when subsystems require, 
burned in peice parts (resistors, relays, capacitors, etc.). 


1110 

D180-18450-3 



THE 


COMPANY 


12.0 BSRM PROGRAM SCHEDULE. 


A preliminary master schedule for the BSRM Is shown in Figure 12.0-1. The 
3-axis or spin stabilized versions can be developed within the same time span. 

The preliminary schedule conforms to the following groundrules: 

o The BSRM program will be conducted in accordance with the plans 
outlined elsewhere in this document. 

o The BSRM test program details will be as defined in D180-18450-2, 

Section 4.2. 

Long-lead items are procured within 15 days of go-ahead by release of procure- 
ment specifications. Specs available from other programs will be released for 
BSRM. Since all components are flight qualified, no extensive procurement 
specification preparation is required. 

For multiple unit buys, Boeing will procure all equipment items at one time. 
Delivery of each BSRM in a multiple unit buy will be made at seven month inter- 
vals to prevent conflict in the use of test AGE and GHE. Also, field process- 
ing personnel are the same individuals conducting the factory testing and would 
not be available to support a factory BSRM during launch preparation of another 
vehicle. 

The BSRM vehicles could be put into storage after DD250 instead of immediately 
going into launch processing as demonstrated on the Boeing S3 program. Con- 
densed System Performance Tests would be conducted during the storage period 
at three month intervals and the Acceptance Test repeated at call-up prior to 
shipment to the launch site. Additional program costs would be incurred for 
this approach. 

The BSRM test program is defined in detail in Section 4.0 of this document. 
Figure 12.0-2 shows a typical test schedule. Thermal -vacuum tests on the first 
vehicle only will require an additional 18 days not shown on the figure. The 
use of existing AGE, GHE and software with the proven Boeing Mobile Test Lab 
provides high confidence in meeting the proposed test schedule. 


1201 

D180- 18450-3 



FIGURE 12.0-1: BSRM MASTER SCHEDULE 





FIGURE 12.0-2: TYPICAL TEST SEQUENCE AND SCHEDULE 







