


























Pe. 


At pe i 


AOF 











2 
¥ 


~ 
ae 
oe 
: 
oe 
7) 
r 
- 
ea 
es 
ba 
cae 
= 
a 
= 
i 
Be 
“4 
> 
> 
= 
> 
4 
S| 
eo) 
3 
| 
= 
£ 
= 
= 
& 
~~ 


jamal PLC 


Seva, 


TGFA 


reer 











AUGUST 
































\. 
peud. \S\ 
ea 


























MODEL S SEAPLANE RECENTLY DELIVERED TO THE RHODE ISLAND NAVAL 
MILITIA 


ERFECT balance and ease of control 

combined with high power and 
unusual performance make Sturtevant 
Model S Steel aeroplanes and seaplanes 
of particular utility to militia organi- 
zations, where machines suitable for 
military use must to a large extent be 
operated by comparatively inexperienced 
aviators. 


RY 
pS UNIVERSITY LIBRA 
MAXWELL FIELD, ALABAMA 


Constructors to U. S. Government 











REC. UY. S. PAT. OFF. 











AEROPLANE COMPANY 


Jamaica Plain, Boston, Mass. 















































August 1, 1916 AVIATION 





[ 




















An Announcement 


‘(MODEL C” The New M. F. P. Steel Aeroplane Convertible 
Land and Water Model 


Lightweight, substantial construction, tapered nose, torpedo shaped 
streamline fuselage—scientifically designed to give the maximum efficiency 
when equipped with the famous 6 cylinder 125 H.P. Hall-Scott Motor. 

Speed, 45 to 90 miles per hour; climb (loaded), 3500 feet in 10 minutes; 
fuel capacity, six hours; weight of machine empty, 1620 pounds. 

In addition to the above points the new M. F. P. aeroplanes embody the 
following advantages: 

LIGHTW EIGHT—Gyiving great speed range and reserve of climb. 

INTERCHANGEABLE PARTS — Taken down and replaced by 
standard pins and bolts. 

STEEL CONSTRUCTION—No warping or twisting of framework 
—unaffected by climatic conditions—a great advantage for military and 
naval service. Can be left exposed for months at a time. 

Investigate the merits of the M. F. P. Steel Aeroplanes and be convinced 
of their superior features. 

For full particulars, prices and demonstrations, address: 


M. F. P. AERO SALES CORPORATION, 705 Times Building, NEW YORK CITY 


POLSON IRON WORKS, TORONTO, CANADA 
































AVIATION 











August 1, 1916 

















The Aviator—The Superman of Now 


The world has its eyes on the flying man. Flying is the greatest sport 
of red-blooded, virile manhood. 


Make your vacation the greatest you ever had by joining the Wright 
Flying School. Live in the open—in the aviators’ tent city. Con- 
venient hotels for the fastidious. 


A short course at the Wright camp will fit you to fly any type of machine. 
Expert instruction in flying, assembly, upkeep, motor-overhaul, etc. 
Dual controls. Pupil flies the first lesson. The school is located on 
Hempstead Plains—the greatest aerodrome in America. 


Send for New Booklet 


WRIGHT FLYING FIELD, Inc. 
60 Broadway, New York 






































16 

















August 1, 1916 AVIATION 
AUGUST 1, 1916 NWIAI ION VOL. I. NO. | 
AND 


AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING 


INDEX TO CONTENTS 


PAGE PAGE 

Some of New York State’s Military and Naval Flyers 6 Modern German Aeroplanes..................+++5 23 
Editorials TURTLES TCT CL Tr TT ee re 7 Book Reviews and Patents ee Ee PEEP ee Oe 26 
M5 Eiffel ephanuatine spree Ky aoe 8 The Wright, Model L, Scout.................05. 27 

ourse in Aerodynamics and Aeroplane Design, by , 
hae eee 9 Wey Ut PN oi bog cass divatanassombaaeas 29 
Dynamical Stability of Aeroplanes, by Jerome C. Washington Correspondence..................++:: 30 
TN Re erry fee eae 17 Ramee Gl TH FIGs obinss o.cn di sadediiscvacce 31 
The 220 H. P. Renault Motor.................... 21 It Is Reported That—Personals.................. 32 
THE GARDNER, MOFFAT COMPANY, Inc., Publishers 
120 WEST 32pD STREET NEW YORK 

SUBSCRIPTION PRICE: ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR. SINGLE ISSUED ON THE FIRST AND FIFTEENTH OF EACH MONTH. 
COPIES FIVE CENTS. CANADA AND FOREIGN: ONE DOLLAR FORMS CLOSE FIVE DAYS PREVIOUSLY. APPLICATION PEND- 
AND A HALF A YEAR. COPYRIGHT, 1916, BY THE GARDNER. ING FOR ENTRY AS SECOND-CLASS MATTER AT THE NEW 


MOFFAT COMPANY, INC. YORK POST OFFICE. 


























EMPIRE STATE AIRCRAFT CORPORATION 





MILITARY TRACTOR BIPLANES 


School machines equipped with duplicate (Dep) control if desired. 
We are prepared to execute orders according to specifications or furnish machines of our own 
design, already demonstrated and tried out. One or two machines usually on hand for prompt 


delivery. 


EMPIRE STATE AIRCRAFT CORPORATION 


30 East 42nd Street Telephone, Murray Hill 482 New York City 























AVIATION August 1, 1916 








Some of New York State’s Military and Naval Fliers 

















= wees © 





(C) International News Service. 
The First Aero ‘Company of the New York State National Guard Now in the Federal Service and Encamped at 
the Garden City Aerodrome 





The personnel of the company is as follows: Captain Rayual C. Bolling, Lieutenants N. Carolin, J. E. Miller, A. B. Thaw 
2d, Master Signal Electrician R. J. Gilmore, First Class Sergeants P. R. Stockton, F. R. Dick, Quartermaster Sergeant W. T. 
O’Dell, Sergeants J. H. Stevenson, E. A. Kruss, Corporals D. G. Frost, D. R. Noyes, E. B. Hagerty, W. P. Willetts, J. R. 
Speyers, H. H. Salmon, Jr., P. J. Roosevelt, F. J. Hoppin; Privates E. C. Best, F. Boger, Jr., K. J. Bevens, W. W. Conant, 
Jr., A. M. Craig, J. T. Dwyer, A. L. Favre, C. C. Goodrich, P. J. Henry, W. T. Howell, J. F. Hubbard, W. C. Jenkins, W. 
J. Johnson, R. J. Knowlson, E. MeCormick, E. Martin, D. P. Morse, R. M. Olyphant, Jr., C. H. Reynolds, R. F. Russell, P. 
D. Smith, J. D. Sullivan, T. F. Ward and Trumpeter W. L. Rockwell. 





Ses.) es 
Bm 104 | ¢ir 














Lah 











: Mts 
— | a 4 











(C) International Film Service. 


The Aviation Detachment of the First Battalion of the New York Naval Militia in Camp at Bay Shore, N. Y. 


The photograph shows the Curtiss flying boat, N. Y. No. 1, the canvas hangar, men’s tents and squadron headquarters. 
Lieutenant Lee H. Harris is in command of the detachment which is composed of Ensign F. C. Wysong, Ensign C. E. Ruttan, 
Eustice L. Adams, Harold R. Eustis, Robert J. Kahl, Frederick E. King, Frank W. La Vista, Charles J. McEnroe, Walter L. 
Roder and Howard W. Ross. 








16 








PRESIDENT AND EDITOR 


seve. AVIATION 


MILITARY EDITOR 
PHILIP J. ROOSEVELT AND 


TECHNICAL EDITOR 
A. KLEMIN, A.C.G.I., B.Sc., S.M. 


Instructor in Aeronautics 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology 


MANAGING EDITOR 
HERBERT M. WILLIAMS, B.S. 


AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING 





Vol. 1 August 1, 1916 No. 1 








HE future of the aeroplane will depend largely 
on the use that is made of the technical infor- 
mation that is being gathered in all parts of the 

world. As this data is made available to the con- 
structor and engine maker, they will find its utilization 
more and more imperative for the scientific improve- 
ment in design and construction from the standpoint of 
safety and efficiency. Aeronautics has passed through 
the period of rule of thumb designing and empirical ex- 
perimentation. It is now a recognized science subdi- 
vided into many branches, and those who are working 
in aeronautical engineering can rightly claim that it has 
reached the dignity of a profession. 

The pioneer work of the Wrights was not done wholly 
on the field. Their most important experimental activ- 
ities were carried on by innumerable tests in their 
primitive wind tunnel and by mathematical caleula- 
tions still in existence. The confidence with which they 
undertook their early work and the freedom from acci- 
dents were due mainly to the technical information 
they had gathered from every source available and the 
preliminary tests they made in their crude laboratory. 

Until the last few years aviation was not regarded 
seriously by the scientific world. It was considered 
only as a field of operation for the daring pilot and the 


enterprising sportsman. But now many of the most 


distinguished scientists in all countries are giving aero- 
nautics close and careful study. From the work of 
these men aeronautics will derive the information upon 
which progress, such as has never even been thought 
possible, will be achieved. 

The United States, while deplorably backward in the 
expansion of aviation from the governmental stand- 
point, has been quietly coming to the front in its re- 
search work. The technical schools have established 
courses in aeronauties and highly trained specialists 
have been investigating various problems. Abroad 
numerous laboratories have produced an enormous 
volume of material. Much of this invaluable data has 
not been published, and such as has been given out has 
been uncorrelated and can be found only in widely 
scattered publications. 

AVIATION AND AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING intends to 
assemble this vast amount of material and make it use- 
ful to the constructor, the engine maker, the aviator 
and the sportsman. It will follow construction both 
abroad and in the United States, and present the latest 
developments in accurate, scientific and unbiased form. 
It is hoped that by undertaking this task a great stim- 


ulus will be given to the whole aeronautical profession. 
By recording the work of American aeronautical en- 
gineering, the world will soon be made aware that the 
birthplace of the aeroplane is still maintaining its 
leadership in aeronautics. By presenting in usable form 
the work done abroad by the leaders in this field, Avia- 
TION will perform a service of incalculable value to 
American industry. 

It is hoped that by undertaking this great task a 
stimulus will be given to the whole aeronautical profes- 
sion, the members of which will find in the new publi- 
cation a continuous source of reliable information as 
well as a medium worthy of receiving and transmitting 
to the aeronautical world the results of their valuable 
experiments, researches, constructional developments 
and matured views on the many controversial aspects 
of this great branch of engineering. 





The Appropriations for Aeronautics 


The Congressional appropriations for aeronautics 
h@&¥e shown that at last the importance of this arm of the 
military and naval services is being taken seriously. The 
publig«awakened as it is by the daily reports of air 
exploits, is in a mood to support any action which 
Washington takes in the direction of American suprem- 
acy in the air. 

The early expenditures for battleships, dry-docks and 
other néval equipment seemed huge to the average citi- 
zen, but-by making comparisons with foreign costs this 
impression soon disappeared. In the same way, the 
amounts necessary for the establishment of aviation on 
a proper seale in the Army, Navy, National Guard, 
Naval Militia and Coast Patrol will have to be compared 
with European expenditures to show how imperative it 
is to appropriate millions on millions of dollars for this 
increasingly important service. 

It is unfortunate that the war has closed sources of 
information which would help everyone to see the grave 
danger of unprotected skies. Such news as comes 
through the censors is mainly spectacular. The vast ex- 
pansion of the air services in the warring countries is 
not allowed to become known. The huge sums expended 
for laboratories, training stations and flying fields, re- 
pair shops and training personnel will only become 
known after the war. Then will come the awakening. 
Congress cannot be urged too strongly to listen to the 
advice of experts both in and out of the government 
service and be guided by their conclusions. 








August 1, 1916 


AVIATION 




















LABORATORY 


VAL 


ERODYNAMI( 


A 


4 


‘EST 


[FFEL IN HIS LAT 


I] 
4 


M. f 

















Course in Aerodynamics and Aeroplane Design 
By A. Klemin, A.C.G.L, B.Se., $.M. 


Instructor in Aeronautics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Member of the Aeronautical Society of 
Great Britain and Ireland, 


and 
T. H. Huff, S.B. 


Instructor in Aeronautics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
Copyright, 1916, by A. Klemin. All Rights Reserved. 


INTRODUCTION 


THE COURSE WILL BE SUBDIVIDED INTO TWO PARTS: 
PART I, AERODYNAMICAL THEORY AND DATA. 
PART II, AEROPLANE DESIGN. 

In PART I it is proposed to deal briefly with the fundamental ideas and theories of aerodynamics in a simple yet compre- 
hensive manner, 

It is important for the aeronautical engineer and for every student of aerodynamics to have at his disposal exact defini- 
tions of such terms as lift, drag or resistance, center of pressure, wing cord, angle of incidence, and other well known ex- 
pressions. 

Although the exact nature of viscosity, skin friction, eddying or density resistance, stream line flow, turbulent flow, the 
sustaining action of cambered wing surfaces, and the principles of comparison for forces on bodies of varying dimensions still 
present many difficulties, it is hoped to give a simple and, above all, practical summary of these points. The more difficult 
theoretical demonstrations will be reserved for special articles. 

The authors propose also to give a brief description of the chief cerodynamical laboratories and of experimental meth- 
ods there employed. Without a knowledge of such methods, appreciation, and application of the laboratory data available is 
certainly not casy. 

Considering the comparatively recent growth of aerodynamics, the amount of material now available is extraordinary. 
It is unfortunately scattered through a variety of publications; English, French, German, Russian and Italian, presented 
in varying ways and in varying systems of units. Nor is all of it entirely worthy of credence. 

In this course it has been attempted to reduce this material, particularly that of English and French origin, to one system 
of presentation with forces measured in pounds, areas in square feet and velocities in miles per hour or feet per second, so as 
to be more readily applicable in American design; to include allthe material which is. trustworthy and of immediate and pressing 
utility to the designer, in carefully classified form. 

The Economic Laws of Flight will be fully dealt with, in horizontal and ascensional flight. The consideration of the 
performance curves of a@ machine will be particularly useful to those engineers and students to whom the subject is com- 
paratively new. 

Throughout, illustrative problems will be worked out on important points, especially to facilitate comparison betwecn 
wing sections. 

PART 2 will include a discussion of available aeronautical materials, timber, steel, alloys, rubber, etc.—with trustworthy 
values for stresses; a variety of diagrams and scale drawings representative of modern design, and a classification of the most 
important modern machines, with their main data. 

At this stage of the art, it is impossible to say that any method in design is standard, but a systematic procedure of design 
will be fully developed. 

Particular stress is laid on the evaluation of factors of safety. The dynamic factor of safety, the material factor of safety, 
the worst loading possible in the air, the worst possible shock on landing; nothing offers so many possibilities of confusion 
and untrustworthiness; and nothing is in more need of definite and accurate statement. 

Complete strength calculations will be presented for fuselage, chassis, wing girders, and controlling surfaces, and the 
design of a standard machine will be carried through, with consideration of motor and propeller problems, weight distribution 
and balancing. 

Finally two sections will be devoted to a consideration of dynamical stability, longitudinal and lateral. These problems 
have been ably treated by a number of distinguished men: Bryan, Bairstow, Reisner, Hunsaker and Wilson, but merit a more 
simplified and more readily applied treatment. 

THROUGHOUT THE COURSE, THE Most ELEMENTARY MATHEMATICS ARE EMPLOYED, AND NOTHING BEYOND A KNOWLEDGE OF THE 
First MECHANICAL PRINCIPLES IS PRESUPPOSED. 

It is hoped, therefore, that the course will be easily understood by any engineer or student approaching the serious study 
of the aeroplane for the first time. At the same time it is felt that much will be of service even to the expert aeronautical 
engineer. 

The authors feel that they are greatly indebted to Lieutenant Jerome C. Hunsaker, whose research and classification work 
at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology has largely rendered possible a systematic presentation of this great subject. 





PART I.—SECTION 1. 


Modern Aeronautical Laboratories 


Early Experimental Aerodynamics he had before him papers by such scientists as Gay-Lussac and 
Aeronautics as a whole and aviation, the science of the Navier, proving conclusively that mechanical flight was im- 
possible. 


heavier than air machine, has from its earliest conception, 
been an experimental art. When Professor Langley in 1887 Langley was not easily discouraged and by a carefully 
started his experiments on an extended scale for determining conducted series of experiments carried on under very ad- 
the possibility of, and the conditions for, transporting in the verse conditions, he was able to build a machine which though 
air a body whose specific gravity is greater than that of air, unsuccessful in its flight in his day, due to faulty mechanism 


9 








10 AVIATION 


in the launching device, has since been flown under its own 
power by Glenn Curtis in 1914, at Hammondsport, N. Y.— 
possibly with some alterations. 

At the time the Wrights took up the subject in 1896, there 
were but few aerodynamical works of interest or value in ex- 
istence. 
and tables of Lilienthal and Duchemin and the work of Lang- 
ley which seemed to verify Duchemin’s formula. 
ing two years experimenting upon these figures of Lilienthal 
and Duchemin, the Wrights came to the conelusion that the 


They were dependent upon the meager experiments 


After spend- 


tables were so much in error as to be of no practical value in 
aeroplane design. 

In 1901 the Wrights designed and built a small “ Wind- 
Tunnel” in which they could earry on systematic investiga- 
tions on the pressure produced by various surfaces when pre- 
sented to the air at different angles. The instruments used in 
measuring these forces were designed with the intention of 
correcting the errors which had rendered so untrustworthy the 
results of their predecessors. 

During the winter of 1901-1902 their investigations included 
some hundred different surfaces of which about half have 
been tabulated and the results used in their subsequent work. 
Expervaents were made on the effect of varying aspect ratio, 
curvature, camber, and the variation of the position of the 
maximum ordinate of the wing section from the leading edge. 
Thiek and thin surfaces were tested to determine the effect of 
thickness. The effect of superposing the surfaces, as well 
as placing one behind the other, were measured and what 
is of even greater interest, the first measurements of center of 
pressure motion on eurved surfaces at carrying angles were 
tabulated by them. As a direct result of their laboratory ex- 
periments and the development of a system of control, worked 
out in their earlier gliding flights, they were able to build the 
first power driven aeroplane. 

To demonstrate that the United States deserved a right to 
leadership in aviation in the earlier years, one need but men- 
tion other names, such as those of Octave Chanute and Dr. 
Zahm. The latter, through the efforts of Hugo Matthul- 
lath, was provided with an aerodynamical laboratory which 
was in its day the most perfect of its kind; although the ex- 
periments extended over a few years only; the results of Dr. 
Zahm’s labors were exceedingly valuable. 


General Requirements in Aeroplane Design 


As is the ease in ship building, a suitable machine for every 
purpose cannot be developed and there must be a special type 
with specifie qualities in slow speed, high speed, weight, arma- 
ment and defense. Some of these factors are directly opposed 
to others. For example, the ideal machine for the regulation 
of artillery fire, would be able to remain immovable or circle 
about very slowly above one point. The “chaser” or machine 
used to rid the air of the enemy’s planes should be the fastest 
possible. 
sible in an aeroplane one can see the uselessness of an attempt 
to combine these two types in one machine. 


With the comparatively narrow range of speed pos- 


On the other hand 
from the productive side, it is impracticable to increase the 
number of types indefinitely, for this would call for an enor- 
mous outlay in machinery and increase in personnel. A com 
promise has therefore been made, with the selection of some 
four master types of aeroplanes which may be classed accord- 
ing to their military uses: 


1. Tre Srratrecic Scout. A slow endurance machine for 
use on long raids into the enemy’s country, for mapping and 
photographie work. 


2. Tue Hieu Speep Scovr. 


For tactical reconnaissance 





August 1, 1916 


and use over the lines, and capable of out-climbing and out- 
flying the enemy. 

3. FiguHtTine or BatrLeEPLANE. Armed and armored, for 
driving off the enemy’s seouts and protecting the fourth class, 

4+. Bome Droprers or Weicut Carriers. For use in de- 
stroying small bridges, railways, ete., depending for their 
protection upon the battleplane. 

In order to design and build machines to meet such quali- 
fications the designer must give up the old haphazard methods 
of building first, and then determining the performance. He 
must go about the design in a thorough and scientifie manner 
in order to hope to come within reasonable limits of his speei- 
fication. 

The most important items in the performance of present-day 
machines are: their weight, their rate of climb, high and low 
speeds, angle of glide, propeller efficiency, and endurance at 
economical speed for various loadings. These depend on a 
careful manipulation of aerodynamical data, including the 
lift and resistance of the main planes and control surfaces, 
the resistance of struts, wires, wheels, radiators and ap- 
pendages, the distribution of loads on surfaces, and different 
combinations of surfaces. On the effects of the various sup- 
porting, control and fin surfaces, and on the summation of all 
aerodynamieal forees depend not only the performance, but 
the controllability, factor of safety, and stability of the aero- 
plane. To produce a desired type the designer must bear in 
mind every factor. 

The desired type can be obtained by the “cut and try” 
This experimental flying 
is, however, a dangerous and costly method that has led te 


process on the full size machine. 
many an unfortunate accident. 


Difficulties of Full Seale Experiments 


The real worth of full seale experiments depends on the 
delicacy and precision of the recording instruments, the ex- 
pertness of the pilot and the interpreter of the recorded data. 
The chief objections, other than that of danger to the pilot. are 
the great variations in atmospheric conditions and therefore 
the unavoidable delays in tests, the inability to repeat the trials 
under exactly the same conditions, the necessarily short time 
allowable for observation and the unavoidable introductions of 
many variables, when but a slight change is made in one part 
of the design. It is this inability to discriminate among the 
possible causes of behavior of the machine that may lead to a 
maze of conflicting results. 

There is a place, nevertheless, and a very important one for 
full sized experimental flying—that the machine may be tuned 
up and minor adjustments made for ease of control and steadi- 
ness under actual flying conditions. Such work, however, 
should not be undertaken until the safety of the pilot is rea- 
sonably assured. 


Towing Methods 


The most natural and logical thing to do with model aero- 
planes would be to tow them through still air and record the 
This is not 
The aeroplane 


forces and moments to which they are subjected. 
so simple an arrangement as in marine work. 
is free to move along the three axes in space and around any 
of the same, which introduces complications in the recording 
mechanism that are most difficult to overeome. Very much 
higher speeds are required in aeronautical work and this in- 
ereases the length of track for testing prohibitively or de- 
ereases the time of experimental observation to such an extent 
as to spoil the precision of the results. 

The principal objection to towed model flight is the inability 
to obtain still air, as even in a closed room eddies are con- 


Aug 


| 


ET 


™ 








1916 
out- 


for 
lass, 
de- 
heir 


lali- 
iods 
He 
ner 
eci- 


lay 
low 
at 


@® 


re oF FR @ 








August 1, 1916 


AVIATION 11 











Fic. 1. 


stantly present, which are impossible of measurement; this 
may be observed by making apparently calm air visible by the 
introduction of smoke. Radiation of heat from the walls is 
apt to cause such eddy making to a very marked degree. 

In a measure the difficulties of reetilinear-motion are over- 
come by replacing it by rotation about a fixed axis; but here 
the radius must be relatively large and the building necessarily 
of similar great dimensions. The rotation is not wholly com- 
parable with translation since along the transverse axes of the 
body, under test, the different parts have not the same relative 
velocity and some compromise is necessary due to this differ- 
ence in radial length. Centrifugal force is present which must 
be overcome by the measuring instrument, as well as the dis- 
turbance set up in the air by so large an object as the whirling- 
arm passing the same point a number of times. 

The whirling-arm used by Messrs. Vickers, Ltd., of England, 
in their experimental work is illustrated in Fig. 1. 


The Wind Tunnel Methods 

If we are willing to accept the doctrine of relative motion, 
then the resultant foree on a solid with a uniform motion 
throngh still air, is the same as that for an immovable solid 
upon which a constant current of air impinges. A “ Wind 
Tunnel” test, where a steady current of air impinges on a 
model at rest, should therefore give the same results as a tow- 
ing test. Differences would be due to experimental errors and 
not to a difference in principle. 

In the towing method, the influence of the mounting stage 
and unsteadiness of the air introduce errors. In the wind 
tunnel, there may be slightly non-uniform flow, disturbances 
due to the sides of the tunnel, ete. Wind tunnel work, how- 
ever, has proved far superior to the towing method, whieh it 
has almost entirely replaced and it has now been developed to 
a high degree of precision and usefulness. 

From wind tunnel tests, the engineer may obtain data for 
the “balancing” up of an aeroplane—the adjustment of the 
center of gravity with reference to the air forces, the loading 
on his wing and control surfaces, the resistance of the body and 
appendages, and other useful information. It will be scarcely 
disputed that such tests are of immediate commercial value to 
the practical designer. 

Aeronautical Laboratories of the Wind Tunnel Type 

The Institut Aérotechnique de VUniversité de Paris, under 
the directorship of M. Maurain and M. Toussaint, situated at 
St. Cyr, some ten miles out of Paris, is devoted, for the most 





WuiritIna ArM USED By Messrs. VICKERS IN TESTING 





PROPELLERS 


part, to experiments on full size surfaces and aeroplanes. 
Covering some eighteen acres of land, a splendid opportunity 
is offered for ample buildings, as well as the seven-eighths of a 
mile railway track used for experimental work. 

The main building with a large central hall is surrounded on 
three sides with work shops, laboratories and a power station. 
Within the hall is installed the experimental apparatus directly 
connected with aviation. Here there are several wind tunnels 
of different dimensions and wind speed, arranged for the test- 
ing of seale models and appendages, apparatus similar to 
Colonel Renard’s for the investigation of stability and proper 
propeller testing apparatus. A motor testing plant for endur- 
anee and economy of aeronautical motors, instruments for 
measuring the propeller torque for various rotational speeds 
at a fixed point and the testing of propellers at rupturing 
speeds are also included. 

In the chemical laboratory investigations on balloon fabrics 
and gases are undertaken with special reference to their manu- 


facture and purification. The physical laboratories are de- 














Fig. 2. First Puatrorm EquirPeD For TRIAL AT AEROTECHNIC 
INSTITUTE OF SAINT-CYR 


voted to the production of instruments for aeronautical pur- 
poses, both experimental and applied. Work shops are at one 
end and an individual power station supplies energy and light 
to the Institute and experimental departments. 

In a separate building, covering a quarter of an acre, is 








2 AVIATION 


housed a “ whirling-arm” some 50 feet in radius, used prin- 
cipally for the calibration of instruments. It is, however, not 
as popular as the track and wind tunnel experimental ap- 
paratus. The out-door track proper is of standard gage, % 
of a mile long, level for the part over which experimental data 
is recorded, but rising slightly for some distance at either end 
to facilitate the starting and stopping of the five-ton electric 
ear, upon which the surface, full size aeroplane or propeller 
is mounted and carried. 

Four ears, each rigged for one type of experiment, are con- 





SE thle “4 
, : ee? 

oO } er od 
an . 
2 . 
S counts . 
- + 
= 

. 

f : 









ee — ee 











Fic. 3. Puan or Erere.’s AERODYNAMICAL LABORATORY 


sidered necessary. Number one measures the horizontal and 
vertical components of the resultant air force, as well as the 
center of pressure for various angles of incidence of the sur- 
face to the wind; two and three are for large and small pro- 
pellers in connection with dirigible and aeroplane work; and 
number four is especially equipped for the measurement of 
the resistance of appendages. The carriages are equipped with 
appropriate measuring instruments of the recording type, 
readings being recorded simultaneously as the car moves over 
the track. The velocity of the air is recorded by means of a 
calibrated venturi tube anemometer. 

The testing apparatus is of such size that a full seale aero- 
plane can be mounted and subjected to test for lift and 
resistance and static longitudinal stability. In order to accom- 
modate such large forces as are encountered in full scale work, 





August 1, 1916 


the instruments are of considerable size; this has the disad- 
vantage of destroying much of the delicacy of the measure- 
ment. The results obtained are said to be in error by about 
five per cent in lift and about ten or fifteen per cent in re- 
sistance. ‘The real value of experimental work of this nature 
and its comparison with results obtained from model tests js 
as yet not fully determined. 

Eiffel in his laboratory at Auteuil, in an investigation to 
ascertain the aerodynamical effect produced by the ear, sit- 
uated as it was directly beneath the surface under test, reports 
that when correction is made for the presence of the carriage, 
agreement with wind tunnel results is fairly obtained. He also 
notes that modification is being made at St. Cyr in the position 
of the surface as mounted on the ear in order to reduce the 
interference as much as possible. A similar comparative test 
made at the National Physical Laboratory, England, on wind 
tunnel models shows good agreement with the lift coefficients, 
but the resistance coefficient in the full size experiment is still 
unsatisfactory. 

The Laboratoire Aérodynamique Eiffel, supported by the 
personal means of, and directed by G. Eiffel is of the most 
elaborate in design. Devoted entirely to wind tunnel experi- 
ments, it is completely housed in a beautiful white stone build- 
ing, fronted by a formal garden. 
stories in height, is 100 by 40 feet. 


The building proper, two 


As may be seen by the accompanying photograplis, the lab- 
oratory room is rectangular in shape, with a large and small 
wind tunnel side by side, occupying the central space and 
suspended mid-way from floor to ceiling. The position of the 
tunnels permits the free circulation of the air in the room. 
The wind tunnels are of similar character, one being of smaller 
working diameter than the other. They each consist of a bell- 
shaped collector, a large laterally uir-tight experimental cham- 
ber, used for both the large and small tunnel, and independent 
expanding trunks leading from the experimental chamber to 
the individual suction blowers. The air is drawn from the 
large surrounding room or hangar into the bell collector, 
through a honey-comb baffle to straighten the flow, then across 
the experimental chamber into the expanding trunk where it 
passes through the suction blower and is discharged at low 
velocity, back into the room. 

M. Eiffel’s characteristic variant is his hermetie experi- 
mental chamber. When first interested in experimental aero- 
nauties, he experienced difficulty, due to interference of flow 






























































ata: ee 3 
TAS Sas Sop. ¥ Pig, 
os 
tet a 
Sch 2 a : u paula ; 
. reper —e e wirtnty om == ots ‘ SSear 
ren ony he 8 ET Lert ay ap 
* ' 
. — — = <2 " — 
Se Fn ee a ae SAE oe Paar | mie 
or” Da oe —_ 
fer .* 3 
. re 
ve rnore. - 
ee ~ 
“gee 
ae “ ~* We s ~ 
ee ” oa ia 
oe } oS 
. ve % . j * 
he hee fe > 
ae ' . ke 6 
- be PoP 
: ; 3 a 4 Lia 
4 , | ; i x 
4 ' 
+ ‘ j ' : i= Ps 
« e. =< ' i ; 7 
"@ ‘ ; 2 
j 
= ee 
’ 
EP” s 
e pA 
4 2 iP 
> ps 5 Ri 
it a 
Fh i : 
=a et “4 
s = 
4. « a x * + a, 
5 cial 4 “i 
fon Sen at 
- ae e 
ve Fs gecd 
i 5 Py ah 
i Oe en kee Ra hier 2 ae Sl ee 2 Ts < cat © 5 oh > 
Fe Ip Oe ee eS MS Ae % tem ae See ee 
Rk. Seon a : 3 ie <— ‘ + ie ees Bah! tigate. , oe or 4 z1 
Pere e Rl ts Ge % BA 5 eg aa oe ae ph Be Spe a RE TE TT f 








Fic. 4. LonGirupInaL SecTion OF THE LARGE WIND TUNNEL IN E1rre.L’s LABORATORY 


> -— © © & eS & 


any 


_—- wat ooh - ae 





1916 


sad- 
ure- 
out 

re- 
‘ure 
S is 


to 
sit- 
rts 
ige, 
Iso 
ion 
the 
est 
nd 
its, 


Hill 





August 1, 1916 


around his models caused by the walls of the closed tunnel. 
In order to avoid a tunnel of excess size and still not reduce his 
model dimensions, the walls were removed for some distance 
and replaced by an air-tight chamber enclosing the stream of 
air. The pressure in the hermetic room is necessarily that of 
the air stream it contains, so that a cylinder of air traverses 
the chamber in parallel stream lines and without showing any 
appreciable eddy. If a fine silk thread is held in the working 
stream, a slight play up and down or to the right and left may 
be noted, showing some variation is present. The velocity of 
the stream is measured by an alcohol manometer, registering 
the difference in pressure in the experimental chamber and the 
laboratory room outside. This is one method of velocity de- 
termination and will be explained in detail later. The 
manometer when left to itself shows a slow variation in 
velocity with time of some four per cent. 

The general dimensions of the installation at Auteuil are as 
follows: The large channel has a bell collector with end diam- 
eters of 4 and 2 meters, 13.1 and 6.6 feet, with a length of 3.3 
meters, 10.8 feet, and an expanding trunk 9 meters, 29.5 feet, 





Section 


Fic. 5. 


long with end diameters equal to the collector. The expanding 
trunk connects with a suction blower, having a sectional area 
of 9 square meters, 97 square feet. The small tunnel com- 
prises a bell collector, ends 2 meters and 1 meter in diameter, 
1.65 meters in length and an expanding trunk 6 meters long, 
connected to a Sirocco suction blower. 

The above dimensions permit in the larger, a uniform stream 
of air 2 meters, 6.6 feet, in diameter to be drawn through the 
experimental chamber at a speed varying between 2 and 32 
meters per second, or 6 and 105 feet per second; this is accom- 
plished by a 50 horse power electric motor driving a 50 per 
cent efficient blower. In the small tunnel of 1 meter diameter 
air flow, a maximum velocity of 40 meters, 131 feet, per see- 
ond, is obtained by a 50 horse power electric motor driving the 
Sirocco blower. 

The experimental chamber is a rectangular room free from 
obstructions 10 meters, 33 feet, in length, 4 meters, 13.1 feet 
in width and 5 meters, 16.4 feet, in height. A rail supporting 
a sliding floor carries the observer and weighing mechanism 
above and clear of the air stream. A second observer on the 
floor is required to regulate the wind and adjust the model 
during a test. The two tunnels are of course so arranged that 
the one not in use may be blocked off with air-tight wall plates 
so preserving the low pressure in the experimental chamber. 
In order to avoid the possible physical discomfiture often ac- 
companying sudden changes in pressure, an air-lock is pro- 
vided for passage into or out of the experimental chamber. 

The models are mounted upon especially designed standards 
or measuring instruments, such as a large and small aerody- 


AVIATION 13 


namical balanee—devices for measuring the lateral forces, 
pressure distribution and a very excellent apparatus for test- 
ing small propellers. All the apparatus is mounted in the 
most convenient manner and may be used for either the large 
or small channel as desired. The accuracy of the results ob- 
tained, while possibly not sufficient for exact physical research, 
are ample, from the practical stand-point. 

The Deutsche Versuchsanstalt fiir Luftfahrt zu Adlershof, 
superintended by Prof. Dr. Bendemann, is of the same 
order as the experimental grounds at St. Cyr, but on a much 
less elaborate scale. The work is principally on full seale aero- 
planes and block tests on aeronautic motors. One building is 
devoted to full seale testing, another to construction and re- 





OFFICE 





OBSERVATION 
ROOM 






ENTRANCE 





Plan 


THe GOTTINGEN AERODYNAMICAL LABORATORIES 


pairs and five smaller ones to the housing of motor testing 
apparatus. The main building has a central tower some 100 
feet in height from which wind observations may be made and 
other atmospherie conditions recorded. Cables from the top 
of this tower are used to support full size aeroplanes in the 
determination of their moments of inertia. A track outside 
of the building is used, as at St. Cyr, for the testing of full 
size aeroplanes or surfaces. In this instance a locomotive used 
to push the mounting stage is substituted for the St. Cyr elee- 
tric driven ear, a rather doubtful adjunet. 

The Géttingen Aerodynamical Laboratory, under the super- 
vision of Professor Prandtl, has little of the ornate as com- 
pared to the Eiffel Institution, housed as it is in a plain one 
story brick building, 30 by 40 feet in size. The building, as 
may be seen from the drawing, is about equally divided be- 
tween wind tunnel and office space. Glass doors in the side 
next the observation room permit of access to the experimental 
section of the tunnel, while trap doors open here and there 
to allow entrance into other sections for the adjustment of the 
honey-combs, baffles, ete. 

Unlike the Eiffel tunnel, the air follows a closed cireuit 
necessitating the turning of four corners. The 2 meter diam- 
eter blower, driven by a 30 horse power electric motor, forces 
a steady current of air through the 2 meter, 6.6 foot, square 
wooden tunnel. At a short distance down stream the air 
passes through the first honeyeomb, 400 large square metal 


‘eells, similar to the pigeon holes used for post office boxes. 


These cells are so constructed with two-ply metal walls that 
the quantity of air passing through any one may be regulated 








14 AVIATION 


by partly bending out one thickness wall to obstruct the pas- 
sage. The cells, in many instances, have been so restricted to 
regulate the air flow that it might be as uniform as possible. 
Vanes, similar to those of a turbine, are utilized at the four 
corners to turn the current through a 90 degree angle, without 
producing excess eddy-motion. After the second turn, just 
before the air enters the experimental part of the tunnel, it 
passes through the second honeycomb, much finer than the 
first. This last honeycomb is constituted of about 9,000 cells 
from which the air, after passing a wire mesh to remove any 
foreign matter, issues with a maximum velocity of 10 meters or 
32.8 feet per second, to act upon the model suspended some 
distance down stream. 

A great deal of the work in the Goéttingen Laboratory has 

















August 1, 1916 


individual adjustable dampers used as a control upon the 
quantity of air passing and so producing uniform flow to 
within about 2 per cent. The balance and motor control are 
mounted on a platform upon the roof of the tunnel. The 
model is supported in a horizontal position in the wind on a 
balance similar to that of Eiffel’s and sensitive to at least 
2/1000th of a pound. Models up to 36-inch span are per- 
mitted without noticeable interference from the walls or chok- 
ing of the air flow. 

The velocity measurements are unique in that in place of a 
single pitot and pressure tube, placed in the vicinity of the 
model, a series of twelve tubes equally spaced, directly on the 
discharge side of the blower reeord on an _ intergrating 
manometer the velocity of the stream. The velocity of the 




























































































DYNAMOMETER SWITCH BOARD 
"a 
| FLOOR, a 
a 
| Tt , pig 
' ull L om ae 
—) Eb : $< _} a emi 
' ee 
' 
<a 
i 
500 H.P 
MOTOR 
it . 
Ta" ‘ — 
ALA aa ae. 
a? ly == —— 
——~ $96 
= —— —- ——___— ABOUT - 69°_—__—_—_-— —_ 


Fig. 6. 


been devoted to the resistance of airship hulls, ete., for which 
work a special suspension method of mooring wires, bell 
cranks and weights, has been adopted with great success. A 
differential pressure gage, sensitive to pressure changes of one- 
millionth of an atmosphere is used in the determination of 
velocity. Many interesting experiments on the distribution of 
pressure have been conducted upon small propellers, con- 
structed by electroplating with copper, wax models. A more 
detailed description of the suspension device and differential 
gaze will follow. 

The Wind-tunnel of the United States Navy Department, 
under Naval Constructor Holden C. Richardson, at the Wash- 
ington Navy Yard, Washington, D. C. The tunnel is similar 
to the German Gottingen Laboratory in that the air is confined 
in a closed cireuit, in this ease eight feet square at the test 
section. 
in the accompanying print, in order to compensate for the 
eurves taken by the stream. Only one set of honeycomb 


The eross sectional dimensions vary as may be seen 


baffles is emploved, these being placed just at the entrance of 
the experimental chamber and 20 feet up stream. These 64 cells, 
each one foot square and eight feet long, are equipped with 





ELEVATION AND PLAN OF THE WIND TUNNEL OF THE UNITED States Navy DEPARTMENT 


stream from the blower has a direct relation to the velocity of 
the wind in the experimental chamber, against which it has 
been calibrated for all speeds. The pitot tubes used have been 
themselves checked with the standard tubes of the National 
Physical Laboratory of England and the Aerodynamical Lab- 
oratory of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 

Power for driving the suction blower is supplied by a 500 
horse power 250 volt direct current electric motor, operated on 
the Ward-Leonard system. A velocity of 75 miles an hour 
may be obtainable, but due to the heating of the air by friction 
and other difficulties in maintaining regular flow this high 
speed is seldom utilized. Generally tests are made at a speed 
of about 40 miles an hour. 

The National Physical Laboratory at Teddington and the 
Royal Aircraft Factory at Farnborough, England, constitute 
the most complete aeronautical experimental combination in 
the world. The aeronautical portion of the National Physical 
Laboratory is devoted to experimental investigations of the 
British Advisory Committee for Aeronautics. This committee, 
with Dr. R. T. Glazebrook as chairman, and such able co- 
Dr. Stanton Mr. L. Bairstow, initiates 


workers as and 














August 1, 1916 


the investigations at the N. P. L. and oversees the general work 
in aeronautics throughout the Kingdom. 

The Royal Aireraft Factory, superintended by Mervyn 
O’Gorman, works in close co-operation with the N.P.L. It 
has facilities for model experiments, but is more concerned 
with tests on full size aeroplanes and the application of the 
investigations of the National Physical Laboratory. There is 
necessarily some overlapping in the work carried on at the two 
institutions, but no interference. 

The Royal Aireraft Factory before the war, was the largest 
then in existence, devoted to the manufacture of 
All the experiments are carried on in the large 
Machines equipped 


factory 
aeroplanes. 
flying field in connection with the factory. 
with intricate recording instruments are flown under their own 
power and such important information as: power utilized, 
angles of pitch, roll and yaw, speed through the air, altitude 
and control movements are simultaneously recorded. This, in 











* 
| 
' 
' 
i 
| 
LL 


TUNNEL AT THE 
SHOWING 


Kia. 7. ExvERIOR OF THE WIND Massa- 
CHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, CELLS 
THrouGH Wuicu Arr Is SUCKED IN FROM THE ROOM 


a true sense, is full seale experimental work and the results 
have been to disclose defects and encourage the improvement 
and safety of the machines. By the careful application of the 
model experimental work of the N. P. L. an inherently stable 
biplane with a speed range of 40 to 80 miles an hour had been 
produced by the R. A. F. before the war. Improved machines 
of this type have been of greatest value to the Royal Flying 
Corps. 

The National Physical Laboratory lias turned over ample 
space for the exclusive use of the Aeronautic Committee, com- 
prising a large and small wind tunnel house, a whirling table 
house and ample space for any independent investigations. 
The small and large wind tunnels are of similar character, one 
4 and the other 7 feet square in cross-section. Each is mounted 
in a separate building, the smaller being included in the engi- 
neering laboratory building. For details of the small tunnel, 
reference is made to the description of its duplicate in the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology Laboratory. The new 
7 foot tunnel only differs from the 4 foot in its dimensions and 


power. It is 80 feet in length with an air flow of sixty feet a 





AVIATION | 15 


second produced by a low pitched four bladed propeller driven 
by a 30 horse power electric motor. 

A great amount of time was spent in experimenting with 
this form of tunnel before the committee was satisfied with 


the results. They have the deep satisfaction of knowing that 


the artificial wind produced by it, is the most uniform in the 
world and adaptable to the most scientifie research. 


The cur- 





Fic. 8. (A) PROPELLER AND (B) AERODYNAMIC BALANCE IN 
Use at THE MAssacHuseETts INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 


rent is uniform in velocity, both in time and space, to within 
one-half per cent. The velocity measurements and aerody- 
namical balance will be described in detail later. It suffices 
here to say that they are as carefully worked out and results 
obtained as gratifying as the wind tunnel itself. The work of 
the committee has been extremely broad and the results are of 
untold value to aeronautics. The whirling-arm and small 
water channel, the former used in the calibration of velocity 





ENTRANCE NozzLE SHOWING HONEYCOMB 


Fic. 9. 


instruments, the latter in the study of stream line flow, are 
both examples of high engineering skill. 

The Wind-tunnel of the Massachusetts Institute of Tech- 
nology was built after a careful study of European Labora- 
tories, on plans furnished throngh the courtesy of the National 











16 


Physical Laboratory. Maintained in connection with graduate 
course in aeronautics at the Institute, with the helpful co- 
operation of Professor Peabody of the Naval Architectural 
Department, and under the former directorship of Lieutenant 
J. C. Hunsaker, U. 8. N., the work has been of the most com- 
mendable character. 

The tunnel is housed in a temporary building on the new 
Technology site in Cambridge, with offices in the main Insti- 
tute Building. Enclosed in a 20x25x66 foot shed, the tunnel 
is suspended in the center of the room, six feet from the floor, 


wie! 


“ meri Lik 
TL Ae 
e 

teed wy 


AVIATION 





‘1 ny 





Fig. 10. Inrerror or Dirruser LOOKING FROM PROPELLER 


so that ample space is provided for the free circulation of air. 
The illustrations indicate the general form of the tunnel which 
has an overall length of about 56 feet and a working section 4 
feet square. The air which is drawn from the room around the 
eowled entrance end passes through a honeycomb formed from 
3-inch metal conduit pipes 2 feet 6 inches in length into the 
experimental chamber. This honeycomb helps to straighten 
out the flow and prevent eddies in the wind. 

The experimental chamber reaches from this honeycomb to 
the expanding trunk, but only the section midway between 
these points is utilized. The air after passing the model goes 
through a series of diagonal vanes and enters the expanding 
trunk. Here the velocity decreases with an increase of static 
pressure. The expansion in 11 feet of length is to a cylinder 
of 7 feet diameter. This cone expansion, in the English tunnel 
is only six feet on the 11 foot length. By expansion the pres- 
sure difference maintained by the four-bladed propeller is re- 
duced and some turbulence in the wake avoided. The dis 
charge from the propeller is received by a large perforated 
diffuser with the end opposite the propeller a blank wall. The 
function of this diffuser is to distribute the air into the room 
at a uniform rate and at a very low velocity. This is indeed 
accomplished for the area of the perforation in the diffuser is 








August 1, 1916 


several times that of the tunnel and when a velocity of 30 
miles an hour is maintained in the tunnel, the discharge from 
the diffuser is hardly noticeable. 

A four bladed black walnut propeller of low pitch, revoly- 
ing 600 r.p.m. will produce a wind of 25 miles per hour. The 
propeller is driven by a 10 horse power electric motor through 
a “silent” chain. The motor is mounted on a separate con- 
crete foundation, as are likewise the aerodynamic balance and 
the tunnel proper, to avoid any variation in alignment caused 
by vibration. The sectional area of the tunnel permits of 
models of 18 inch span and as an extreme 24 inch span, to be 
tested at speeds from 6 to 40 miles per hour. 

The control of the wind is by sentitive rheostats in the 
motor field and wind speeds may be kept constant as in the 
English tunnel to within 42 per cent. Measurement of velocity 
” in the wall of the 
tunnel, recording on an aleohol manometer the difference of 
the pressure in the room and in the experimental part of the 
tunnel. 


is by means of a calibrated “side plate 


These manometer readings were calibrated against a 
standard N. P. L. pitot tube to ascertain the true velocity. 

The aerodynamical balance was constructed by the Cam- 
bridge Scientific Instrument Company, England, and is a 
counter-part of the English installation. Most model adjust- 
ments are possible from the outside without stopping the wind, 
thus greatly facilitating the experimental work. The balance 
is arranged so that complete data for the calculation of the 
stability coefficients for aeroplanes is obtainable. 

While the laboratory is primarily for research work, investi- 
gations are conducted for private individuals or manufacturers 
at nominal charges. 

It is interesting to note that the Curtiss Company has re- 
cently erected at Buffalo, under the direction of Dr. A. F. 
Zahm a wind tunnel similar in construction to that of the 
N. P. L. and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 

The detailed description of experimental methods and in- 
struments employed will be dealt with in later sections of 
A study of such methods will render more inter- 
esting and instructive the study of the aerodynamical data 
which has been collated from the work of these laboratories. 


the course. 


References for Section 1 

National Physical Laboratory, Teddington, and Royal Air- 
eraft Factory, Farnborough, England. Publication: Tech- 
nical Report of the Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, for 
the years 1909-10, 1910-11, 1911-12, 1912-13. 

‘United States Navy Department Wind Tunnel, Washing- 
ton, D. C. 

*The Aerodynamical Laboratory of the Massachusetts In- 
stitute of Technology, Boston, Mass. 

The Laboratoire Aérodynamique Eiffel, Auteuil, France. 
Publications: La Resistance de V Air et l Aviation, by G. Eiffel, 
1912, translated by J. C. Hunsaker. Nouvelles Recherches 
sur la Resistance de l’Air et V Aviation, by G. Eiffel, Dunod 
and Pinat, Paris, 1914. 

Bulletin de VInstitut Aérodynamique de Koutchino, Moscow. 

tGéttingen Aerodynamical Laboratory, Gottingen, Ger- 
many. 

+The Deutsche Versuchsanatalt fiir Luftfahrt zu Adlershof, 
Berlin, Germany. 

Report on European Aeronautical Laboratories, by A. F. 
Zahm, Vol. 62, No. 3; Report on Wind Tunnel Experiments in 
Aerodynamics, by Hunsaker and others, Vol. 62, No. 4. Pub- 
lished by Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C., in 
Smith, Miscellaneous Collections, Vol. 62. 

Bulletin de VInstitut Aérotechnique de VUniversité de 
Paris, 1912-13-14. 

+ Work published at irregular intervals in standard periodicals and 
reports, such as: Aeronautical Journal, England; L’Aéro plane, Paris, 
France; Smithsonian Institution Reports, Washington, D. - Engineer- 
ing, London; Annual Report of the National Advisory Committee for 
Aeronautics, Washington, D. C., 1915. 

+ Jahrbuch der Motorluftse ee Berlin, years 


1908 09, °09-10. °10-11, °11-12 -13, and Zeitschrift fiir Flugtec hnik 
und Motorluftse hiffahrt (semi- Leute periodical of research work). 





wo 


th 


ge &- SS hs 


~~ = me 





Dynamical Stability of Aeroplanes 


By Jerome C. Hunsaker, Eng.D. 


Abstract of a Thesis submitted to the Faculty of The Massachusetts Institute of Technology 


The following abstract’ is the result of some three years’ 
work in applied aerodynamics, while detailed by the Secretary 
of the Navy to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The 
preliminary work of erecting the wind tunnel and aerody- 
namical balanee, design and calibration of instruments for 
velocity measurement, establishment of standard methods of 
experimentation and, finally, the investigation of the force of 
the wind upon aeroplane wings, rudders, bodies and other 
parts has been fully described elsewhere.? Study of aeroplane 
parts led naturally to the study of the aerodynamical proper- 
ties of complete model aeroplanes which forms the substance 
of this thesis, the objects of which were :— 

1. To determine the aerodynamical constants of two aero- 
planes by means of model tests in the wind tunnel. One aero- 
plane was a standard military tractor with no claims to in- 
herent stability in flight, the other a machine designed to pos- 
sess some degree of inherent stability while departing as little 
as possible from standard practice as exemplified by the other. 

2. To apply the aerodynamical constants so found in the 
dynamical equations of motion for the full scale aeroplanes 
in free flight and to examine the stability of the motion by 
the method of small oscillations, as first applied to the aero- 
plane by Bryan * and later extended by Bairstow.‘ 

3. To compare the stability both laterally and longitudinally 
of the two aeroplane types chosen, with a view to tracing to 
the individual parts of each machine their effects upon the 
motion. 

4. To attempt to formulate general qualitative conclusions 
which may assist aeroplane constructors to avoid instability 
or to provide a degree of stability. 

5. To throw light upon the general problem of inherent 
dynamical stability. 
Previous Work 

The first rational theory of the dynamical stability of aero- 
planes is due to Bryan whose work was extended and applied 
by Bairstow with wind tunnel tests. The late E. T. Busk of 
the Physical Staff of the Royal Aireraft Factory, England, 
applied Bairstow’s model tests to an actual aeroplane and re- 
cently sueceeded in perfecting an inherently stable aeroplane 
which could be flown “hands off.” Neither the details of 
Busk’s experiments nor of the type aeroplane developed by 
him have been disclosed by the British War Office, for obvious 
reasons, 

Theoretical aspects of the problem have been discussed by 
Lanchester, Riessner, Crocco, Bothézat and others, but the only 
applications are those of Bairstow and Busk. 


Laboratory Work 
Wind tunnel testing of the models under investigation was 
carried on from June to September, 1915, by the writer and 
various students under his direction. The mathematical por- 
tions of the work were completed during the period October, 
1915-Mareh, 1916, with frequent consultation with Professor 
E. B. Wilson of the Department of Mathematics. 


General Problem of Stability 
The stable aeroplane model we designate by S and the un- 


‘Published in extenso as Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 
Volume 62, Number 5, Washington, June 30, 1916. 

2 Reports on Wind Tunnel Experiments in Aerodynamics.  Smith- 
sonian Institution, Publication 2368, Washington, January 15, 1916: 
“Stable Biplanes,” Engineering, London, January 7 and 14, 1916. 

°G. H. Bryan, “ Stability in Aviation.” p 

*Technicai Report of the Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, Lon- 
don, 1912-13, 


17 


stable aeroplane by U. Both were tested in the same manner. 
The models were 1/24th scale, giving a span of about 18 
inches. The wind tunnel has a section of 16 square feet and 
from previous tests, it was concluded that the influence of 
the walls was negligible for models of this size. 

The application of model experiments to predict the aerody- 
namical properties of a full size aeroplane is well understood 
and the validity of such application has been repeatedly dem- 
onstrated. We assume that aerodynamical forces vary as the 
density of the air, as the square of a linear dimension of the 
model and as the square of the relative velocity. This is 
strictly true for inertia and eddy making resistance but not 
quite true for skin friction which varies less rapidly than the 
“square law” and must depend somewhat on the viscosity of 
the air. However, for engineering purposes, it is usual and 
probably sufficiently exact to assume the “square law” for 
all resistances. ‘ 

The investigation is most conveniently discussed in two 
parts, the first dealing with the longitudinal motion involving 
pitching of the aeroplane and rising and sinking of its center 
of gravity combined with change of forward speed, and the 
second, with the lateral motion, which involves side-slipping, 
or skidding, combined with rolling and yawing to right and 
left. 

Stability is distinguished as statical or dynamical. An aero- 
plane in free flight in still air must be driven at such a speed 
and kept at such an inclination of wings to wind that the 
weight is just sustained. The maintenance of this normal atti- 
tude is the technique of the aviator. When in its normal atti- 
tude the aeroplane, if properly balanced, is in equilibrium. In 
a statical sense, this equilibrium is stable if righting moments 
are called into play tending to return the aeroplane to its 
normal attitude if by any cause it is deviated therefrom. In 
general an aeroplane, if stable in a statical sense, will, when 
given an initial deviation, take up an oscillation which either 
may be damped out or may increase in amplitude. The aero- 
plane is dynamically stable if, and only if, these oscillations 
die out as time goes on, leaving the aeroplane in its original 
normal attitude. It is clear that statical stability must first be 
provided before the dynamical stability of a design can be 
examined. Also, without statical stability, there can be no 
dynamical stability inherent in the aeroplane. 


Longitudinal Tests 


The aeroplane model was mounted in the wind tunnel and 
the position, magnitude and direction of the resultant wind 
force determined for a series of attitudes in pitch correspond- 
ing to the highest and lowest flight velocities of the full seale 
aeroplane. This resultant force was then resolved into a 
couple acting at the center of gravity, and two component 
forees acting vertically and horizontally. From a considera- 
tion of the variation of vertical force or lift with change of 
angle, the corresponding speeds necessary to sustain the weight 
were estimated. Likewise, the equilibrium of the aeroplane was 
adjusted to be statically stable by change in horizontal tail 
surfaces. After three trials a tail setting was found which 
gave a proper balance. 

With this disposition of surfaces, the rate of change of the 
component forces and of the couple was computed for use in 
the equations of motion. The radius of gyration of the aero- 
plane was estimated from the plans and the damping coeffi- 
cient obtained by oscillating the model in pitch. 








18 


For the latter measurement, the model was mounted on a 
rocker arm made to oscillate by powerful spiral springs. The 
decrement of amplitude for various wind speeds was a meas- 
ure of the damping of the pitching motion due to the air. 
Correction made for the damping due to pivot friction and to 
the wind on the bare apparatus, the logarithmic decrement 
was found to vary very nearly as the first power of the velocity 
as must be expected. 


Longitudinal Motion 


The equations of motion for the full seale aeroplane were 
then written down and the aerodynamical coefficients substi- 
tuted. Confining the discussion to small oscillations about the 
equilibrium position, the longitudinal motion is represented by 
three simultaneous linear differential equations with constant 
coefficients of a well known type. 

Solution by means of approximate factors shows that the 
motion may be considered as composed of two oscillations: 
one of a period of the order of two seconds damped to half 
amplitude in 0.1 seeonds, the other of period from 10 to 30 
seconds not very strongly damped. 

From a consideration of the coefficients, the short oscillation 
appears never to be of importance on ordinary aeroplanes, 
but the long oscillation, being only moderately damped, may 
eause trouble, especially for an aeroplane that flies with a 
large angle of incidence for the wings. 

The calculation of the period and damping of the long oscil- 
lation was repeated for several speeds from highest to lowest 
corresponding to small and large angles of incidence with the 
results shown in the following table: 





ioe: 1 st ete) él e 











| | uj} uv | t 
Velocity, miles-hour 76.9 | 53.4 | 44.6 | 36.9 | 79 | 51.8 | 47 44.2 
Incidence of wings | 0° | 3° ei a ig iz 10° 14° 
Period, seconds 34.7 17.6 | 15.8 | 10.56 34.0 | 16.7 13.7 11.5 
Damp 50 per cent, 
seconds . ee 11.0 ; 13.1; -—-—— 11.0 | 17.7 | 68.0 | - 
Double amplitude, _ 
seconds }—— | —— | | 24.7 | 24.7 


Instability at Low Speed 


It appears that the period becomes much more rapid at low 
speed, that at some critical speed the damping vanishes, and 
below this speed both aeroplanes become frankly unstable. 
This instability at extreme low speed is common to all aero- 
planes and the only advantage of our “stable” aeroplane S 
is that its longitudinal motion is stable down to about 40 miles 
per hour while aeroplane U is stable only down to about 47 
miles per hour. 

The necessary existence of a critica: velocity for any aero- 
plane where the longitudinal stability vanishes is believed to 
be shown here for the first time. 

A study of the relative magnitudes of the coefficients for 
these typical aeroplanes leads to the conclusion that longi- 
tudinal instability at low speed is due, first, to the decrease 
in damping of the tail surfaces on account of the low speed 
and, secondly, to the decrease in rate of change of lifting force 
with change in attitude for high angles of incidence. Ordi- 
narily, if an aeroplane heads up, the increased angle of inci- 
dence of the wings causes increased lift and the aeroplane 
rises and vice versa. 

However, for an angle of about 15°, all known aeroplane 
wings reach a maximum lift and any further increase in inci- 
dence causes no increase in lift. This is a critical attitude 
for the wings. If an aeroplane flies very slowly it must be 
held at some large angle near this critical angle. If the ma- 


AVIATION 





August 1, 1916 


chine is headed up, giving a greater angle of incidence, it wil] 
obtain from the air no greater lift and will not rise. It is 
“stalled.” Indeed, some wings show a marked drop in lift 
for angles beyond the critical angle. 

The coefficient that represents the rate of change of lift 
with angle of incidence is the predominating term in the ex- 
pression which represents the damping of the long oscillation, 
Conse- 
quently, if an aeroplane is to be stable and land at a relatively 
slow speed, it must not operate at too great an angle of inei- 
denee. To sustain its weight it should therefore have a greater 
wing area than another aeroplane which lands with about the 
critical angle for the wings. 


and this coefficient vanishes near the eritical angle. 


The principal difference between aeroplanes S and U is that 
the former supports a weight of 3.55 pounds per square foot 
of wing area and the latter 5.2 pounds per square foot. 

The following recommendations are made for an aeroplane 
to have its longitudinal motion damped at lower speeds than 
is usual in practice: 

1. Provide large horizontal surfaces of long arm for damp- 
ing the pitching. 

2. Provide wings of such area that the slow speed does not 
require a great angle of incidence. Roughly the safe slow 
speed should not require more than 80 per cent. of the maxi- 
mum lift ef the wings. 

3. Keep the longitudinal radius of gyration small by con- 
centrating the principal weights. 


Slowness in Pitching 


It may be imagined that a dynamically stable aeroplane of 
rapid period might be so violent in its motion that the pilot 
would be shaken about to such an extent as to be hindered in 
the performance of his military duties of observation, gun- 
fire, or bomb dropping. It appears that the expression repre- 
senting the period of the long oscillation contains certain pre- 
dominating coefficients, and a consideration of their magni- 
tude leads to the following conclusions: 

The natural period of pitching is increased by: 

1. High speed of flight. 
. Large damping surfaces on the tail. 
. Small angle of incidence. 
4. Small righting moments. 

The righting moments which tend to restore the aeroplane 
to its normal attitude when it pitches are a measure of statical 
If the statical stability is great the period of the 
Our desire 
is an aeroplane that has a gentle motion of slow period heavily 
damped. Dynamical stability is better given by heavy damp- 
ing than by excessive stiffness or statical stability. 

An ocean liner of too great stiffness (large metacentrie 
height) is not suitable for passenger or cattle carrying ser- 
vice; it is preferable in ship design to give only enough meta- 
centrie height to insure that the vessel is never unstable and to 


9 
v0 


stability. 
oscillation will be short and the motion violent. 


damp the roll by generous bilge keels. 

In a similar manner in aeroplane design, the theory indicates 
that it is preferable to give just enough statical stability to 
insure that the aeroplane is never unstable and to make ihe 
oscillation dynamically stable by the use of generous damping 
surface and large wings. 

These remarks on damping versus stiffness apply with equal 
force to the latter motion of the aeroplane which is the sub- 
jeet of the second part of the thesis. 


Lateral Motion 


In a given longitudinal attitude proper for some fixed speed, 
the aeroplane model was tested in the wind tunnel when turned 





nahh se 60U6fT-lUl CO UCC 


aa «b> 


— 


rr ee ee ee ee ee ee ee -—- eo eo «> fh 


QD = EO oe 








916 
rill 


ift 





August 1, 1916 


to right and left away from the symmetrical position. For these 
oblique positions we measured the moment tending to turn the 
model back into the wind (“ yawing” moment), the moment 
tending to tilt it over laterally (“ banking” or rolling mo- 
ment) and the transverse force tending to push the model to 
one side. From a series of such measurements the rate of 
change of yawing moment, rolling moment and lateral force 
with angle of yaw were estimated. 

In the asymmetrical or lateral motion of the aeroplane in 
flight, the angular velocity in roll or jaw is considerably 
damped by surfaces moving through the air. Consequently, 
it was necessary to obtain damping coefficients for rolling and 
yawing from model tests on the oscillating beam in a manner 
similar to that employed to measure the damping of pitching. 

When an aeroplane yaws rapidly the more rapidly moving 
wing lifts more than the other and a rolling moment is pro- 
duced. Also when an aeroplane rolls, the downward moving 
wing has a greater angle of incidence than the other and, 
therefore, has more resistance to forward motion, producing 
a yawing moment. A method for calculating the rolling mo- 
ment due to yawing and the yawing moment due to rolling has 
been devised. 

The necessary aerodynamical coefficients being now at hand, 
and the radii of gyration in roll and yaw, the equations of 
motion for the asymmetrical motion may be set down. For 
small oscillations, these reduce to three linear differential equa- 
tions with constant coefficients. The determinant formed from 
the coefficients may be factored by use of approximate methods 
and the motion compounded from that represented by each of 
three factors. 

Spiral Dive 

The first factor may correspond either to a damped or to an 
amplified motion, depending on whether the aeroplane be 
stable or unstable. At high speeds model S shows a subsidence 
damped to half amplitude in 10.4 seconds. At lower speeds 
this damping diminishes and at 37 miles per hour the motion 
becomes a divergence which doubles in amplitude in 7.2 see- 
onds. Examination of the preponderating terms in the ex- 
pression representing the motion shows that the aeroplane 
starts off on a spiral dive. There is a tendency on side slip 
or “skid ” to the right, for example, for the aeroplane to head 
to the right toward the relative wind due to vertical fin sur- 
faces on the tail acting as a weathervane. At the same time, 
due to spin in yaw, the machine banks to the right suitably 
for a right turn due to greater lift on the left or more rapidly 
moving wing. The increased bank increases the side slip, the 
yaw becomes more rapid and in turn the overbanking is mag- 
nified. The aeroplane starts off on a spiral dive and will spin 
with constantly increasing angular velocity unless the pilot 
intervene with his controls. 

The spiral dive is corrected if the aeroplane have a pre- 
ponderance of fin surface above the center of gravity or if 
the wing tips be raised. There must be such an arrangement 
of surfaces that when the aeroplane side slips to the right it 
banks suitably for a left turn. Then it will be restored to its 
normal attitude. A simple relation may be obtained involving 
four of the aerodynamical coefficients which, if positive, in- 
sures that spiral instability of this kind is not present. 

It appears that spiral instability is caused by too much fin 
surface to the rear or too large a rudder, and by not enough 
fin surface above the center of gravity. A proper adjustment 
is easily obtained without sacrifice of desirable flying prop- 
erties. 

The aeroplane §S is stable spirally at all reasonable speeds. 
It has a small rudder and wing tips raised about 1.6°. At 


AVIATION 19 























OsciLLATOR USED FoR INVESTIGATING DyNAMICAL STABILITY 


EXPLANATORY NOTE.—T7'o measure aerodynamic damping the model 
is placed in a horizontal position above the oscillator and meets the 
wind as in actual flight. A massive bracket pivoted above the tavo points 
shown supports the model. Fore-and-aft arms carry counter-weights 
which are adjusted to give a reasonable natural period. The spiral 
springs bear in notches on the arms by means of knife-edged shackles, 
assuring that the motion shall be oscillatory. The assumed center of 
gravity location of the aeroplane model is arranged to be on the avis 
of rotation, the actual center of gravity of the apparatus being not 
considered. Friction is kept small by careful design of the pivots. 

The apparatus is fitted with a small reflecting prism by which a 
pencil of light is deflected towards a ground glass plate set in the roof 
of the tunnel. Nine lines spaced 0.2 inch are ruled on this plate. With 
the model at rest the beam of light is brought to a sharp focus on the 
line marked zero. By means of a trigger, the observer starts the oscil- 
lation of the model, and the spot of light is observed to oscillate across 
the scale. The time in which an oscillation is damped from an ampli- 
tude of say 9 to 1 durations is observed and from this the logarithmic 
deerement of the oscillation is calculated. This must be numerically 
positive to insure that the oscillation dies out. 








20 





extreme low speed (when stalled), there is spiral instability 
caused by the righting moment due to side slip becoming 
small. The effect of the slight dihedral angle of the wings is 
not of much assistance at large angles of incidence and it may 
be preferable to fit true vertical fin surface, whose stabilizing 
effect should be independent of attitude. 

Aeroplane U is spirally unstable at high speeds. It has no 
rise of wing tips nor vertical surface above the center of 
gravity and has a very deep body giving the effect of a rear 
vertical fin. 


Rolling 


The second factor in the equation of motion represents a 
rolling of the aeroplane which is so heavily damped by the 
wide spreading wings as to be ordinarily of no consequence. 
In the extreme case of a “stalled” aeroplane, the damping 
of the roll vanishes because the downward moving wing has 
no more lift than the other. Here we may expect trouble, 
and frequent accidents to stalled aeroplanes indicate that the 
pilot’s lateral control by ailerons also becomes inoperative. 
T ~ reagserahle flvine speeds. this factor should not lead to 
any instability. 


Dutch Roll 


The third element in the motion is a yawing to right and left 
of the course combined with rolling. The motion is oscillatory 
of period from 5 to 12 seconds, which may or may not be 
We may imagine an aeroplane which is spirally 
Due to fin surface 


damped, 
stable to yaw to the right accidentally. 
above the center of gravity it banks in a manner proper for 
a right turn, but the roll is resisted by the damping of the 
wings. The turn is assisted by the increased resistance of the 
downward moving wing, but eventually the weathercock effect 
of fin surface at the tail turns it back into the original course. 
As the machine swings back to her course, the bank flattens 
out. But, due to angular momentum, she swings out to the left 
and banks for a left turn. This swinging to right and left is 
accompanied by rolling and some side slipping. 

The analogy to the “Dutch Roll” or “ Outer Edge” in 
ice-skating is obvious. If the skater lean too far out on his 
swings he may fall, and in the same manner if the aeroplane 
bank too much a slight puff of wind may capsize it. 

The motion in the “ Dutch Roll” is stable provided there 
be sufficient vertical fin surface on the tail and not too much 
fin surface above the center of gravity. These requirements 
conflict with those previously stated for spiral stability and a 
compromise must be made. Overcorrection of spiral insta- 
bility may produe instability in the “ Dutch Roll” and vice 
versa. Fortunately, the damping of rolling by the wings is 
helpful in both cases, and it appears possible to obtain that 
nice adjustment of surfaces which will render both motions 
stable. 

Model S was stable in the “ Dutch Roll” at all speeds, hav- 
ing a period from 6 to 12 seconds, and the initial amplitude 
damped 50 per cent in from 1.5 to 6 seconds. Model U was 
stable in this respect except at low speed when it showed a 
period of 6 seconds and the initial amplitude was doubled in 
8 seconds. Here the aeroplane was practically “ stalled” and 
the damping of the roll due to the wings was only one quarter 
of its value at high speed. 


General Conclusions 


It is believed that the majority of modern aeroplanes are 
spirally unstable but stable in the Dutch Roll. 
it appears to be a simple matter so to adjust surfaces that 
any aeroplane can be made completely stable without sacrifice 


Furthermore 


AVIATION 





August 1, 1916 


in speed or climb. At extreme low speed an aeroplane must 
be unstable in its longitudinal motion but need not be unstable 
laterally. 

The degree of stability to provide in a given ease cannot be 
determined from mechanical considerations, but certain gen- 
eral conclusions may be indicated. For example, the comfort 
of the pilot must be a first consideration and for this reason 
the righting moments giving statical stability should be small; 
the period of the aeroplane can then be made relatively slow, 
and if the damping is adequate, the free oscillations will be 
stable. 

The theory is applied here only to flight in still air. Obvi- 
ously the air is never still, and the aeroplane must finally be 
judged from its behavior in gusts. An inherently stable aero- 
plane tends to preserve its normal attitude with relation to the 
relative wind, and if the velocity and direction of the relative 
wind change in an irregular manner, the stable aeroplane will 
tend to follow in an effort to preserve the same relative air 
speed and longitudinal attitude. The result will be to force a 
motion of the aeroplane which will be more violent the greater 
the statieal stability. Consequently in rough air an aeroplane 
very stable statically is unsuitable as a gun platform and for 
many other military purposes. A machine whose inherent 
statical stability is slight or nearly neutral should be slow to 
respond to gusts. 

The stable aeroplane, if the pilot abandon his controls, tends 
to fly in such a manner that the relative air speed and attitude 
In good weather, the pilot may, therefore, 
abandon his controls at intervals to make observations which 
ordinarily would require an assistant as observer. However, 
this very tendency of the machine to adjust its flight path may 
prove a source of danger when the pilot wishes to make a 
landing in a small field. Here the machine, if struck by wind 
gusts, will attempt to “ take charge ” in resistance to the pilot’s 
efforts to direct it. A very stable aeroplane is not, therefore, 
so completely under the pilot’s control as one whose stablility 
is slight. , 

For the determination of the degree of stability suitable for 
military aeroplanes we must finally depend upon the prefer- 
ences of pilots. A knowledge of the natural periods and 
damping coefficients should then furnish a means for fixing 
the verdict of experience, so that in future the desired degree 
of stability may be provided. 

Considerations of theory indicate that a slight degree of 
statieal stability combined with the maximum of damping give 
an aeroplane slow periods of oscillation and a dynamically 
stable motion, with little ill effect upon performance or con- 
trolability. 


remain constant. 


The following table summarizes the results obtained for the 
lateral motion: 


Aeroplane s Ss Ss 





vu | t 
| 

Wing Area, square feet, 464. — — | 384. —— 
Span, feet, 40.2 — — | 36. — 
Chord, feet, 5.77 — | om | 635 
Weight, pounds, 1600. —- a | 1800. 
Pounds per square foot, 3.55 —- od 5.2 
Rise of Wings, 1.63°} —— -- 0° 
Angle of Incidence 0° 6° 13° 1° 15.5° 
Velocity, miles, 76.9 44.6 36.9 78.9 43.6 
“Spiral’”’ Motion. 

Damp 50 per cent, seconds, 10.4 2.7 oe — 3.3 

Double, seconds, —_ | 7.2 | 28.0 — 
“Dutch Roll,” 

Period, seconds, 5.9 10.7 12.0 | 5.2 5.7 

Damp 50 per cent, seconds 1.4 1.3 6.0 1.8 

Double, seconds, —— -— — 9 €.7 











a | 


—_— 1 


oO VS 


oO rt 





The Two Hundred and Twenty Horse-power Renault Aero Engine 


One of the most successful foreign aero engines of great 
power is the twelve cylinder V-type Renault engine which 
is rated to develop 220 horse-power at a normal engine 
speed of 1,200 revolutions per minute. As the Renault Com- 
pany of France was the first concern to produce a V-type 
aero engine, it is interesting to examine its latest product, which 


The 220 H.P. 
Renault 
Aero Engine 


has been designed with the particular 
object of driving the powerful “ gun- 
planes” of the French Air Service. 

Like its immediate predecessor, the 
100 horse-power model, the 220 horse- 
power engine has twelve cylinders ar- 
ranged in two rows of sixes so as to form 
an angle, or V, of 60 degrees. The cylin- 
ders, made of high grade steel, are 
mounted separately on the base chamber, 
and are surrounded in pairs by auto- 
geneously welded steel 
In each pair of opposite cylinders, it is 
arranged that one piston rod is connected directly to the 
crank pin, while the other is attached to a bearing on a pro- 
jection from the first. The erank-shaft is supported by four 
bearings lined with anti-friction metal and its propeller end is 
provided with double thrust ball bearings, so that either a 
tractor or a pusher air-secrew may be mounted. 

The valves are of the overhead type and have a very large 
diameter, which secures high volumetric efficiency. They are 
operated by individual rocker-arms and by two overhead cam- 
shafts, one for each row of cylinders, which are driven 
through bevel gears from a vertical shaft and two inclined 
shafts at the anti-propeller end of the engine. Each cam- 


water-jackets. 


shaft is enclosed in an oil-tight casing which is bolted to the 
cylinder heads and a ventilating pipe is provided for each 
cam-shaft at the propeller end, The intake valves are on the 
outside and the exhaust valves on the inside of the cylinders, 
the exhaust being led through a silencer mounted on top of 
the engine. The cylinders have a bore of 125 mm. (4.92 in.) 






/ 
/ 


Transverse 
Section 
Through 

Cylinders 


and a stroke of 150 mm. (5.90 in.), 

Lubrication is effected by a gear pump, 
located on the bottom of the sump, 
through foreed and splash feed. The oil 
is first led in two flows to the crank-shaft 
bearings and to the ecrank-pins. The 
cylinders are lubricated by splash. Fur- 
thermore, the oil is driven to the magneto 
driving gears, to the vertical and in- 
clined shafts driving the cam-shafts, and 
finally into the cam-shaft casings. The 
wastage of oil is compensated by an 
auxiliary gear pump, mounted below the 
main pump, which draws the oil from the main tank. Both 
pumps are jointly operated through a worm-drive by a hori- 
zontal shaft, which is driven by the erank-shaft through a 
vertical shaft with a bevel gear. 

There are two automatic carburetors, one mounted on the 
outer side of each row of cylinders, each carburetor feeding 
its individual row, through a two-branch tubing, in two sets 
of three cylinders. The volume of mixture admitted into the 
cylinders can be manually controlled by a throttle valve. The 
mixture itself is slightly heated by a water-jacket surround- 
ing the carburetors and tubing, through which the water of 
the cooling system circulates. A proper mixture is automat- 








22 


ically secured through a number of ports in the air-chamber 


of the carburetor. These are fitted with annular valves whose 
movement is regulated by the greater or lesser force of the 
aspiration. 

The cooling of the enigne is secured, not as on previous 
models through an air blower, but through a centrifugal water 
pump which is driven through bevel gears from a vertical 
shaft actuated by the engine. The water-jackets of each row 
of cylinders are inter-connected by short lengths of -rubber 
hose and communicate with two separate radiators through 
conventional inlets and outlets. 

The ignition is double and is effected by four high tension 
magnetos, which are driven through bevel gears by the ver- 
tical shaft actuating the cam-shafts. Each cylinder is fitted 


with two spark plugs. The magnetos are mounted in two 
twin-groups between the cylinder rows, each group MM’ 
One magneto ignites the 


being operated by a common gear. 






































AVIATION 





August 1, 1915 


nieating with the cylinders by means of radial channels cast 
en bloc. The rotation of the distributor effects the intake by 
connecting the port-holes with the cireular channels and the 
exhaust is led through the same channels back to the distrib. 
utor, wherefrom another series of port-holes lead to an ap. 
nular chamber communicating with the atmosphere. In order 
to accelerate the exhaust, two additional port-holes are drilled 
on each cylinder at the lowest position of the piston stroke. 

The servo-motor is connected with engine as follows: The 
erank-shaft of the engine is coupled to a box fitted with three 
pawls which grip, by means of springs, a ratchet coupled to 
the crank of the servo-motor. When the latter is started, the 
pawls and ratchet are connected and the engine crank-shaft 
will be spun till it acquires sufficient speed for insuring proper 
ignition. As soon as this is obtained, the pilot stops the flow 
of compressed air and the pawls automatically disconneet 
themselves from the ratchet through centrifugal force. 

The engine can also 
be started by means of 
a starting crank which 
is geared to the crank 
of the compressed air 
motor. Because in spin- 
ning the engine crank- 
shaft by hand, the en- 





























gine speed would be too 
low to produce sparks 
of the required inten- 
sity, a fifth magneto is 
provided which is 















geared to turn ten times 






















































on , - 
a Se SSS Se 
ee S avaennemseeanil | 
ange 
~ b 


as eo ids 
—7 8 & oc} 








inner spark plugs of one cylinder row, while the other mag- 
neto ignites the outer spark plugs of the opposite cylinder 
row. Should, therefore, one magneto of either group break 
down, ignition will still be fully provided by the other mag- 
neto group. 

The engine may be started either by spinning the propeller 
or by means of a starting crank combined with an auxiliary 
magneto or by a compressed air engine. The latter follows 
closely the design of conventional aero engines of the radial, 
non-revolving type, except that it is entirely made of alumi- 
num. The cylinders are cast integrally with the crank-case. 
The pistons are leather lined and their connecting rods are 
directly fixed to a single crank. 

The motor is fed from a cylinder containing sufficient com- 
pressed air for ten startings. The air reaches the cylinders 
by way of an air chamber through a rotating distributor which 
is geared to the crank and is fitted with six port-holes commu- 









faster than the engine. 
This auxiliary magneto 




















Longitudinal Section of 


—_ the 200 H.P. Renault 


Aero Engine 


produces two sparks at a time, or about forty sparks for two 
complete revolutions of the engine. Its high tension wire is 
conneeted with the distributors of the four main magnetos, 
but as the auxiliary magneto and the starting crank are coupled 
to the crank of the servo-motor, and therefore with the pawl- 
and-ratehet transmission, it will stop producing sparks as soon 
as the engine has started. 
According to the well-known formula 
P D = D* 0.7854S N 

(total piston displacement) 


is 1348 


the eylinder capacity 
cu. in. inecthiaaapaiaage 
Dirigibles for Sport 

A sportsman’s air-ship 150 feet long and not over 45 feet 
high, equipped with an 80 horse-power engine that should 
drive it a speed of from 45 to 50 miles per hour can be 
constructed at a cost not exceeding $15,000 according to & 
recent estimate. 





are 









ine, 
eto 








et 
ld 













The author is careful to state that the data he submits has 
been obtained mainly from a personal inspection of captured 
German machines, which were certainly in use in March of this 
year. He points out that German aeroplanes have, since the 
war began, tended more and more towards uniformity, both 
because of the advantages which standardization brings in the 
making of repairs, supply of spare parts, ete., and because 
the complete subordination of individualism to the common 
welfare makes each constructor eager to adopt the best points 
of every other design, instead of seeking to make his machine 
different from the rest. This spirit was not so noticeable be- 
fore the war, and it is only since its outbreak that designs 
have been gradually modified until they all approach each 
other closely. 

The giant machines, of which so much has been heard, are 
said to be seldom seen 


MODERN GERMAN AEROPLANES 


By Jean Lagorgette 
Abstract by E. P. Warner 


Review of Technical Press, Engineering and Scientific Publications 





about 30 ft., a figure which has been shortened to 26 ft. The 
span, too, has decreased, although in a slightly smaller propor- 
tion, the change being from 47 to 42 ft. Due to the shortened 
fuselage very large fixed stabilizing planes are used and the 
German machines, seen in flight, always appear to have the 
tail and wings remarkably close together. It is very notewor- 
thy that the Germans have been able to use such short bodies 
successfully. 

The normal incidence is about 4.5°, very nearly the angle 
of maximum lift-drift ratio, and the angle and curvature of 
the wing are approximately constant from tip to tip. Two 
years ago it was the custom to employ a lower wing of much 
less span than the upper, but they are now nearly or quite 
equal. Manv different forms have been tried for the wings, 
but it is now the general rule to use a nearly rectangular 

form, with the enter- 





anywhere along the 
front. The 
have preferred to put 
their trust in rigid dir- 
igibles, so far as heavy 
work is concerned, but 
this is a condition 
which is likely to 
change at any time, as 
the importance of the 
heavily armed fighting 
machine is being in- 


Germans 








ing and trailing edges 
perpendicular to the 
line of flight. The ex- 
ceptions to this are the 
L Vv. G &€ Pie 4, 
whieh has the entering 
edge slightly sloped 
back, causing the chord 
to decrease from root 
to tip, and the D. F. W. 
of Fig. 2, which still 
employs the peculiarly 





creasingly realized. 

At the inception of 
the war the Taube, in 
its numerous forms, was the most characteristic feature of 
German aviation, although biplanes of Teutonic origin, under 
the skilful guidance of Landmann and Oelrichs, had made re- 
markable records. ‘The most distinctive feature of these bi- 
planes was the excessive sweep-back of the wings, which has 
disappeared in more recent machines. 

The German willingness to borrow extends not only to other 
constructors of their own nationality, but also to foreigners, 
so that the “deadly Fokker” and, other successful machines 
are to-day said to be little more than copies, either of one 
French machine, or a mixture of features selected from a 
variety of machines. The present typical German biplanes 
(Aviatik, Albatros, L. V. G., ete.) are tractors. Before the 
war there were a number of pushers, more or less inspired by 


Fie. 1. 


the Farman, but they were soon abandoned. 
A tendeney to decrease the length of the fuselage has been 
manifested. The total length of the machines of 1914 averaged 


L. V. G. Typr, P. F. Armerons Cur Away. 


back-swept wings which 
gave it the nickname of 
“banana.” The sweep- 
ing back of the wings in a straight line, which was almost uni- 
versal in 1914, has given way to a slight dihedral as a means of 
obtaining stability. The aspect ratio ranges from 6.7 to 7.2. 
An unusual feature of several German machines is the small 
gap between the wings. The gap is nearly always less than 
the chord, and in the larger Albatros it is more than 15% less. 

Ailerons are used on all types, and they are sometimes of 
very peculiar design. They are divided in form at mid-sec- 
tion and so warped as to produce the effect of a slightly 
upturned trailing edge. This construction is illustrated in 
Fig. 3, and is probably designed to give efficient action in both 
the up and down motion of the aileron. 

The inter-plane bracing has been much reduced in recent 
models and is well illustrated in Fig. 4. On most of the machines 
in use at present there are 8 metallic struts, connected by a sim- 
ple rectangular system of wiring, in place of the complicated 


cantilever truss for which German construction used to be noted. 




















lia. 2. 





D. F. W. “ Banana.” 













24 





Fig. 3. 


The connection from the fuselage to the upper wing is made 
through a pair of supports in the shape of an inverted V. 
These offer no more resistance than the old system of four 
short vertical struts, and are much stronger. 








AvIATIK, TyPE P. WARPED AILERONS, BALANCED 


Rup 


lLengit 25¢t - - 


AVIATION 


August 1, 19]¢ 














DER. 


lie. 4. L. 


RADIATOR 
The wings are 





a 
FBC. —u2. = 


| 
als Surlace of rudder 
NSE IES 4.739.%t. 
ion «i> 





















































a, ll Surtoce of vertical 
Stabjhzer 
3.5 $g.¥E- 
Diameter of . \ 
Screw 8.8 fC. = / 
* ’ | 
5. 75#t- ie a 
oS i 
ee a 
J eae ant | Surloce of 
--+—/--| | Funcple plane ™ 
' | 5SE.4 59.7. 
-—t_t_- | k 6°50 ft —« 
Hi 
7-3 | 
t--- Surtace ot horizonta 
| ES ano Stobfzer 
jt i * 2h J/sg.Ft. 
hot, I® 
a SS 2.2ft. 
7 S__ 9.37. » BFC. —_ 
iment 
| | Surface of 
or Elevotor | 
= H.B8 s¢-FC. 














ALBATROS ScouTING BIPLANE. 





V. G., Type D. 9, Exuaust Aspove Honey Comp 
IN FRONT OF 


Upper WING. 


now covered with a yellowish cloth, 
and doped with a transparent varnish 
of a bluish tint, which makes the wing 
more difficult to pick out against a 
blue sky. 

In the Albatros scouting biplane of 
Figs. 5 and 6, a thoroughly represen- 
tative machine, the tails consist of a 
large stabilizing plane, generally of 
nearly semi-circular form, followed by 
two elevator flaps. The surface of the 
fixed portion is about 24 sq. ft., that of 
the elevators 13 sq. ft. The contour 
is very much like that of the old Nieu- 
port monoplane. The rudder, too, is 
approximately semi-circular, 5 sq. ft. 
in area, and is preceded by a triangu- 
lar fin of 4 sq. ft. The Aviatik of Fig. 
3 employs a most peculiar arrange- 
the characteristic tri- 
angular fin, but following it with a 
is some 


ment, having 


balaneed rudder whose axis 


distanee behind the trailing edge of the } 


fin, so that, when the rudder is turned, 
there is a discontinuity between the 
two surfaces; a thing which seems ex- 
tremely undesirable, as it must greatly 
enhanee the eddy effect about the rear. 

The fuselages are all reetangular in 
section, and are generally more curved 
on the lower than on the upper sur- 
face. The Aviatik diverges from stand- 
ard practice here in that the forward 


portion of the fuselage and engine 


cover instead of being composed of | 


smoothly curved surfaces, is almost 
exactly pyramidal in form, as shown 
in Fig. 7. 

Before the war, the landing gear 
favored by the Germans was that of 
the Etrich Taube, a form not unlike 
This has been abandoned 
in favor of the simple V chassis con- 
structed largely of metal. Rubber 


Bleriot’s. 








is 








1916 





August 1, 1916 


shock absorbers are used, and the track is large (from 
6 to 8 ft.). 

All the German biplanes use 6-cylinder fixed motors, 
mounted with the cylinder heads protruding up out 
of the fuselage. The exhaust pipe is of unusual form, 
the gas being carried straight up from the manifold 
(See Fig. 4.) 
Water cooling is universal, and the radiator, inclined 
toward the rear, is mounted just below the top plane 
in several cases, notably the L. V. G. and Aviatik. 
In this disposition, the usual honeycomb radiator is 
used, and the total cooling surface for a 160 h.p. 


and discharged above the top plane. 


engine is roughly 73 sq. ft. 
Hazet radiator is still found. The tanks are placed 
under the seat or at each side of the observer, and fuel 
is pumped by hand to an auxiliary tank under the top 
plane, whence it feeds by gravity, or else a small 
mechanically operated pump forces the fuel directly to the 
engine. 

All the machines which we are discussing have two seats 


In other machines, the 


in tandem, but there is no agreement as to whether the pas- 
senger should sit in front of or behind the pilot. The controls 


are of the usual type, with wheel and foot-bar. Dual control 

















Fig. 7. Avriatrk. ENnotne Cover or Pyramip Form. 


is not employed, German military experience apparently 
showing this to be an unnecessary complication.—L’A érophile 


(Mareh, 1916). 


RECENT WORK AT THE N. P. L. 

In econjunetion with the British Admiralty and the Royal 
Aireraft Faetory the National Physical Laboratory has con- 
siderably enlarged its equipment and staff. Two additional 
wind tunnels have been erected, one of 7 feet and the other ot 


4 feet diameter. Recent experiments have dealt with the 


AVIATION 25 








Fig. 6. AnBatros, Scoutine BIPLANE. 


effect of fin area of airship models on the restoring couples 
which follow a displacement; the stability of kite-balloons; 
the modifications required in an aeroplane wing for a machine 
which is to fly at high speed and to alight at a low speed. 
The form of aeroplane bodies and the disposition of guns 
have been studied. Mathematical analysis has been extended 
to the examination of stability in circling flight, horizontal or 
spiral. The efficiency of radiators for aeroplanes and the 
resistance and stability of aerials are other problems which 
are being dealt with. 





A NEW TYPE OF LANDING GEAR 


A new type of combined land and water chassis has been 
invented by Lieutenant Angstrém of the Swedish Flying Corps. 
Two floats are attached to the chassis, one on either side, and 
to each float is rigidly seeured the axle of a wheel, the wheel 
projecting over the inner edge of the float for nearly half its 
diameter. The floats are hinged so as to turn in an angle of 
90 degrees. When adjusted for hydroplaning, the floats are 
hung so that the wheels are in a horizontal position, as shown 
in the front and side elevations in Fig. 1. 

When it is desired to use land gear, the floats are rotated 
through an angle of 90 degrees, bringing the wheels into the 
vertical plane, as is illustrated in Fig. 2. The axes of rotation 
lie in the center of the upper surfaces of the floats and the 
change is carried out by means of wires attached to the upper 
edges of the floats, and passing over pulleys. At the cost of 
a slight additional complication, the wheels may be sprung 
into position by means of coil springs, as shown in Fig. 3. 

The inventor suggests the use of a triangular linkage, with 
one extensible side, similar to the chassis of the Bleriot XI, but 
lying in the transverse instead of the longitudinal plane — 
Flight (May 11, 1916). 














— ——T 



















































































Fig. 1. Fig. 


2. Fig. 3. 
A New Type or LANDING GEAR. 





Book Reviews 





AIRCRAFT IN WARFARE 
By F. W. Lanchester 


Price $4.00. 





(Constable, London. Pp. 222) 

The book is mainly compiled from a series of articles in 
Engineering covering a period from September to December, 
1914, 

It contains a number of very interesting photographs of 
ft. A. F. machines, ineluding the inherently stable B. E. 2¢ 
and the R. A. F. Type F. E. 2, designed to carry a gun weight 
of 300 lbs.; also the fast Sopwith Seout, the White and 
Thompson flying boat, and other well known machines. The 
collection forms a very good compendium of British practice. 

The author speaks of the modern aeroplane as “ flying it- 
self,” and inherently stable machines are apparently taken 
for granted in British practice. Considering the discharge 
of an aerial torpedo which may constitute one quarter of the 
gross weight of the machine, the author states that with a 
dynamically stable machine the disturbance due to the release 
of the torpedo is well within permissible limits, and the ex- 
tent of the initial undulation is the same as that produced 
by an adverse wind gust of ten miles per hour. The only 
condition to be observed is that the center of gravity of the 
torpedo should be approximately in the same vertical line as 
the center of gravity of the whole machine. 

Opinion in this country is still divided as to the value of 
the inherently stable machine, but the authoritative views of 
Mr. Lanchester, based on close observation of performance in 
the war, justify the view that such machines are indispensable. 

The author diseusses very carefully the question of arma- 
ment, and considers the armament required at flights of vary- 
ing altitudes. Two thousand feet is taken as representing 
the lowest altitude limit of ordinary military flight, and with 
an armament of three mm. steel in all its vitals, a machine 
at this altitude would: be extremely difficult to bring down. 
The chapters on armament are worth very serious study. 

Consideration of the Lewis quickfirmg gun, bomb throw- 
ing, steel darts, and of torpedo discharge make very inter- 
esting reading. 

The Tactics of the Aeroplane are dealt with in scientific 
and masterly fashion. Aireraft is considered in the service 
of the Navy, in attacking submarines and dirigibles and in 
the service of the Army. There is a very skilful and plausible 
demonstration of what the author calls the law of N*: the 
fighting strength of a force is equal to the square of its 
numerical strength multiplied by the fighting value of its in- 
dividual units. law confirms the concentration of 
force as practised by throughout the 
whether on sea or land. 

The book makes easy and fascinating reading; its utility 
to all interested in the military development of the aeroplane 
is apparent, and it would serve as a stimulus to any one inter- 


Such a 
commanders 


ages, 


ested in aeronautics. 


MECHANICAL ENGINEERS’ HANDBOOK 
Lionel S. Marks, Editor-in-Chief 


(McGraw-Hill Book Co. Price $5.00. Pp. 1779) 

This monumental work is based on the German Hiitte, now 
in its twenty-second edition. It is divided into fifteen see- 
tions, each of which has been handled by a number of most 
eminent American specialists, and covers the whole field of 
merchanical engineering. 

The information is concise, excellently presented, and com- 


AVIATION 





August 1, 1916 


plete. Much of it is, of course, hardly of interest to the 
aeronautical engineer. But, on the other hand, it contains 
a wealth of information on materials, alloys, timber, strength 
of materials, machine shop practice, mechanics and mathe- 
maties, engineering measurements, patents, ete., which the 
aeroplane designer or constructor will find of immediate 
utility. 

The section on Aeronautics, though somewhat condensed, 
deals with resistance of bodies, struts, cables, wing coefficients, 
propellers, ete., summarizes standard practice for the main di- 
mensions of a machine, with a number of useful rules, and 
gives directions for preliminary design and for performance 
curves. 

No better handbook could be selected by the aeronautical 
engineer as his standby, either for general or more special- 
ized aerodynamical data. 





BOOKS RECEIVED 


Aviation. An Introduction to the Elements of Flight. By 
Algernon E. Berriman. 360 pp. Price, $4.00. George 
H. Doran Company, New York. 

ArrcRAFT IN War. By J. M. Spaight. 172 pp. 

The Maemillan Company, New York. 

AIRMAN. Experiences While Obtaining a Brevet in 

Franee. By Captain C. Mellor, R.E. 123 pp. Price, 


Price, $2.00. 


THE 


$1.00. John Lane Company, New York. 
AEROPLANES IN Gusts. Soaring Flight and the Stability of 
Aeroplanes. By 8S. Z. Walkden. 272 pp. Price, $4.00. 


Spon & Chamberlain, New York. 

INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS. By C. E. Knoeppel. 145 pp. 
Price, $1.00. The Engineering Magazine Company, New 
York. 

NATURAL STABILITY AND THE PARACHUTE PRINCIPLE IN AERO- 
PLANES. By W. Le Maitre. 46 pp. Price, 50 cents, 
Spon & Chamberlain, New York. 


Aeronautical Patents 
ISSUED JULY 4, 1916 


1,189,302. Filed March 30, 1914. To William E. Somerville, Coal 
City, Ill. Biplane with pivoted wings. 

1,189,382. Filed Sept. 28, 1915. To Horace 8S. Peck, Rochester, N. Y. 
Aerial dart with explosive charge und bullet nose and guiding 
vanes. 

1,189,610. Filed Aug. 13, 1912. To Albert H. Morris, New York, N. Y. 
Aeroplane with series of wings (3) placed horizontally on oppo- 
side sides of fusilage. 

1,189,612. Filed Aug. 12, 1915. To Frank Narohe, New York, N. Y. 
Flying boat with wheels; four movable triangular wings, one each 
side geared to central shaft, to revolve in flight. 

1,189,616. Filed Feb. 11, 1916. To Joseph Thompson Parker, Washing- 
ton, D. C. Armored aeroplane device. Gun arranged to fire 
through hollow propeller shaft and aimed by maneuvering aero- 
plane. 

1,189,680. Filed April 28, 1913. ‘To Jefferson M. Gardner, New Lon- 
don, Conn. Airship car with tilting sleeve. 
1,190,178. Filed Jan. 28, 1914. To Gustav G. 
Ariz. Biplane with parachute attachment. 
1,190,248. Filed April 14, 1914. To Denis F. Cashman and Christ. 
A. Brownfield, Zanesville, O. Attachment for changing angle of 

aeroplane wings. 


Lelevier, Douglas, 


ISSUED JULY 11, 1916 

Filed Aug. 20, 1915. To Oscar Hermanson, New York, 

Device for keeping airships afloat. 

1,190,343. Filed July 20, 1914. To Claude U. Tyrrell, Chicago, IL 
Folding wing monoplane toy. 

1,190,397. Filed Aug. 6, 1915. To John W. Treeman, Oklahoma, Okla. 
A Helicopter airship. 

1,190,321. Filed July 8, 1915. To William Benjamin Pusey, Boise, 
Idaho. Aeroplane wing surface. 

1,190,376. Filed Oct. 2, 1913. To Fred J. Chione, La Salle, Il. 
balloon attachment for aeroplanes. 

1,190,374. Filed April I, 1912. To Frank Capdevilla, New York, N. Y. 
Control tillers with locking device. 

1,190,378. Filed March 31, 1915. To John Percival Clark, Hendon, 
England. Articulated aeroplane wing with movable forward edge. 


1,191,077. 
N. Y 


Safety 


ISSUED JULY 18, 1916 
Filed Feb. 12, 1916. To Sylvanus 8S. Van Kearen, Aberdeen, 
Torpedo dropping mechanism for airships. 
1914. To Anthony Maruca, Anita, Pa. 


1,191,375. 
South Dakota. 
1,191,448. Filed Oct. 17, 


Monoplane with dihedral angle construction and warpable wing 
tips. 
1,191,501. 
Helicopter 
parachute. 


To Mark A. Dees, St. Louis, Mo. 


Filed March 23, 1914. 
body and automatically collapsible 


with cylindrical 








~ at 


ro 
] 


)- 





The Wright, Model L, Light Reconnaissance Aeroplane 


The Wright, Model L, Light Seout, a one-man tractor, 
has been designed to fulfill a demand for high speed, 
moderate power, light weight, economical upkeep, and ability 
to fly at very low speeds, at a fair purchase price. This 
machine gets off the ground very quickly, even at slow speed, 
and has a range from 35 to 81 miles an hour, as measured by 
the Wright Company on the field, the latter speed being ob- 
tained at a test in which 


load comes, are formed with eyes, securely soldered, which 
loop over hook-plates under the strut-ends. By taking out a 
small bolt which runs through the strut and its fitting, the 
struts are slipped out, releasing the wires from the hook- 
plates. 

The solid struts are spruce, with very little head resistance. 
These are of the same thin and deep dimensions throughout, 
save at the ends where 





half a mile was registere:l 
in 22 seconds. An ob- 
server gets the novel im- 
pression that the machine 
is flying without effort; 
it seems to verily float; 
and it drives like an auto- 
mobile. With the motor 
well throttled down, the 





machine still flies at a 
safe angle. 
While designed pri- 


marily for military scout- 
ing, on lines laid down 
by a representative of 
the War Department, its 
small and 
light weight make it a 
runabout 


dimensions 


particularly 

suitable for the sportsman owner. There is simplicity ex- 
pressed in every detail, and in the event of repairs becoming 
necessary these can be made with the minimum of expense 
Its quick-rising ability makes it available 
on fields where a larger machine would be out of the question. 


in time and money. 


The photograph that is reproduced herewith gives a good 
idea of the general style and appearance of this machine. 


, TA — 
/; 

= “Se | 

\ A _ 





Wricut, Movet L, Scour. PLAN 


y . > ° ° ° . > 
The details of construction are indicated on the drawings of 
the plan, and frout and side elevations, which seale approxi- 


mately 8.7 feet to one inch. 
struction is of interest: 


The following description of eon- 


SUPPORTING PLANES.—The upper plane is in three sections 
and the lower in two, interchangeable, in a vertical direction. 
The wings are readily demountable from the engine section 
The guy wires are solid steel 

No turnbuckles are used in 


for shipping or motor haul. 
wires, not cable, cut to length. 


guying the main cell. The wires, which are double where the 





Wricut, Mopet L, Scour 


; they taper to the fittings. 
At each side of the fusel- 
age is a narrow ‘surface 
to which the lower wings 
attach. The struts in the 
engine section run from 
these small planes to the 
upper plane in this sec- 
tion. 

The wings are thus en- 
tirely separate and indi- 
vidual units, There is no 
wing surface under the 
fuselage. Spruce lateral 
spars are of ample di- 
mensions. The ribs are 
solid spruce, I-beam see- 
tion with the webs drilled. 
The fabric is Irish linen, 
doped and varnished. Spruce strips are attached to the top 
side of each rib to hold the cloth in place, and the wings are 
adequately wired internally. 

SUPPLEMENTARY PLANES.—There is 
stabilizer, non-lifting, to which the elevator flaps are hinged. 

ConTrROLS.—Lateral equilibrium is maintained by double- 
acting ailerons cut out of both upper and lower planes, hinged 
These have a slight eurve and nor- 
mally are actual portions of the wings. A spruce spacer strut 
conneets the upper and lower ailerons. The control cables 
run from the spacer strut-ends over pulleys at the upper and 
lower extremities of the adjacent plane struts and along the 
The cable from the lower 





a semi-cireular fixed 


to the rear lateral spars. 


wings to the steering column. 





aK $a " 
LN —————EEEE——EEESESE== 


' | / \Y \ Z ‘* 
NT AOS 
am 


Front ELEVATION 








Wricut, Mopet L, Scout. 
aileron runs to the top of the strut and vice versa. The ample 
surface of the ailerons insures very easy control. The bal- 
aneed rudder is operated from a rudder bar by cables run- 
ning into and through the fuselage to the steering wheel. The 
elevator flaps are operated by cables from the masts through 
the fuselage to the wheel. 

The steering set used is the standard Wright. Turning the 
wheel right or left operates the ailerons; rocking the wheel and 
its supporting column fore and aft operates the elevators. An 
aluminum hand lever turns the rudder with very little pres- 
sure. Gripping the wheel and the lever at the same time in 
one hand causes the rudder to turn simultaneously with the 
operation of the ailerons; otherwise the ailerons may be oper- 
ated entirely independently. 

















The aileron and rudder eables end in short chains which run 
over sprockets on the steering column. 
is rigidly attached to the axis of the steering wheel and the 
rudder sprocket is free on the same shaft. Gripping the rudder 
lever with the wheel in one hand obviously rotates the two 
sprockets simultaneously. 


The aileron sprocket 


FuSELAGE.—The fuselage is of usual box girder construc- 
tion, strong wire braced. The nose is covered with aluminum, 
The balance 
is covered with linen, doped, painted gray and varnished. 
The deck is of veneer, linen covered. 
vertical knife edge at the rear. 
rearmost strut of the fuselage. 


with very large doors to give access to the motor. 


The body tapers to a 
The rudder is hinged to the 
Where control cables pass 








Wricut, Move, L, Scour. Sipe ELevation 





into the fuselage, brass eyelets are used. In the fuselage no 
bolts pass through spars, a special fitting obviating this prae- 
tice. 
zontal ones are spruce. 


The longitudinal spars are ash and the vertical and hori- 
The pilot sits in a comfortable pit 
under the trailing edge of the upper wing. 

In front of him is a dash with gasoline gauge, clock, aneroid, 
gas cock, pressure gauge and slip indicator mounted thereon. 
Pressure in the tank is maintained by hand pump. 

INcipENCE INpicatTor.—On a strut is fastened the Wright 
angle of incidence indicator, which gives at all times the angle 
of the chord of the planes with respect to the air currents 
through which the machine is flying and is entirely independ- 
ent of gravity. 

Power PLant.—The motor is the latest Wright, six eylin- 
ders, 43g by 45% inch bore and stroke, rated at 70 horsepower. 
The tractor screw, of high pitch, is mounted on a short shaft 
which forms part of the Wright flexible drive. 
shaft has a light flywheel keyed to it. Concentric with this 
is a steel dise to which the propeller shaft is keyed. Eight 
stud bolts project from the dise and the flywheel respectively 


The engine 


and over each pair of studs is a short but very heavy endless 
rubber band. These bands transmit the full power of the 
motor to the propeller and absorb vibration and sudden 
strains on propeller or engine shaft. 

The gasoline tank is to the rear of the motor, inclosed in 
the fuselage. 
the exhaust pipes sticking through holes in the deck. A flat 
tube radiator is on either side of the nose of the fuselage and 
these are quickly demountable by unfastening retaining straps 
which hold them to plates attached to the framing. The hose 


The entire engine is covered in by the fuselage, 


connections ean be quickly taken off. 
RunninG Gear.—The chassis is very simple. 
steel tube. The wire wheels are 26 inches by 4 inches, liberal 
for the machine. 
The chassis struts are of ash, 
sprung from the axle by rubber band shock absorbers. 
GENERAL INFORMATION.—The span is 29 feet, gap 5 feet 9 
inches, chord 6 feet, area of main planes 334 square feet, 
length overall 24 feet, weight empty 850 pounds. A useful! 
load of 650 pounds may be carried, ineluding 12 gailons of 
fuel for two hours’ flying, water, oil, pilot, ete. The gross 
weight per square foot, including ailerons, is 4.5 pounds. 


The axle is a 


The spokes are covered by aluminum discs. 
The weight of the machine i 


28 AVIATION 





OUR NEW NAVAL ANTI-AIRCRAFT GUNS 












































Photo by N. Y. Herald Service. 


The battleships Texas, Pennsylvania and Nevada of the At- 
lantie Fleet are being equipped with the new anti-aircraft guns 
shown in the above photograph, and before long eighteen other 
battleships and cruisers in the United States Navy will be 
provided with these weapons, which are said by naval officers 
to be the most efficient guns yet made for use against aircraft. 

The new gun has been developed through experiments con- 
dueted in the Bureau of Ordnance during the past three years 
under the direction of Rear Admiral Strauss, and special credit 
for the design is given to R. G. Marvell, Commander A. L. 
Norton, retired, and Commander C. B. MeVay. 

The weapon is a three-inch rifle, fifty ealibres long, which 
according to claims, will hurl shells 27,000 feet into the air at 
an angle of 90 degrees, at rapid fire rates. The careful tests 
made on several of these guns at the Indian Head proving 
grounds have convinced naval officers that they are thoroughly 
efficient, coming up fully to the predictions and expectations 
of the designers. 

The plans of the Navy Department call for the placing of 
two of these guns on each battleship, riveting them fore and 
aft on the rear stands of the gun turrets so as to secure the 
best possible firing radius. By this arrangement, the guns can 
be swung into position for firing in all directions. 


August 1, 1916 














buil 

3 
mer 
par 
$2,( 

4 
ball 
avid 

6. 
ball 

7. 
coas 
by { 
sepé 

T 
Uni 
equi 
(ba: 
first 


30 as 


20 s 


Spar 
Spar 
Gaso 
Oil 

Tent 
2 mo 
20 ty 
2 au 
Gaso 
Field 
Mise 


T 
pert 
offi e 





1916 





With the Aero Clubs 


The Aero Club of America 

Acting upon request of Secretary of War Baker, the Ex- 
ecutive Committee of the Aero Club of America has sub- 
mitted to the War Department an elaborate program for 
organizing the nation’s aerial forces. This program is to 
provide for the following items: 

1—One aero squadron of twelve machines for each of the 
twelve militia divisions, as was provided for in the organiza- 
tion tables of 1914, but could not be carried out for lack of 
funds. Each squadron is to cost $800,000, making a total 
of $9,600,000. 

2?—One aero squadron for each of the four army divisions, 
at $800,000 per squadron, a total of $3,200,000. 

3—Two aero squadrons for each of the three coast artil- 
lery districts, at $800,000 per squadron, a total of $4,800,000. 

4—At least 450 machines for training aviators at a total 
cost of $3,000,375. 

5.—For establishing ten aviation schools, $5,000,000. 

6—A number of dirigible and kite balloons for service 
with the Army, costing a total of $2,000,000. 

7—A competition for aero engines, automatic stabilizers 
and other safety devices, to cost a total of $1,000,000. 

In addition to the above program, which provides for the 
needs of the United States air services to be created, the Ex- 
ecutive Committee of the club has outlined the following 
plans which, according to its own words, “if carried out, will 
give fairly substantial aeronautical organizations to the Army, 
Navy and Militia, and constitute a good step towards placing 
the United States in the safe position aerially.” 

This second program of the Aero Club of America eaiis 
for: 

1—An increase of the Army appropriation from the 
$1,222,000, now provided for, to $5,000,000, which is the 
amount required to organize, equip and maintain for one year 
five aero squadrons, including the cost of training and pay 
to officers and mechanics. A detailed cost of one aero squad- 
ron is given in the estimate shown below. 

2.—An increase of the National Guard appropriation for 
training officers from the $76,000 now provided for to $1,000,- 
000, which is the amount required for training 160 militia 
officers and providing the necessary flying material. To this 
should be added the cost of establishing six aviation schools, 
building of sheds, machine shops, ete. 

3.--An inerease of the estimate for aeroplanes and equip- 
ment to be supplied by the militia division of the War De- 
partment to the National Guard from less than $1,000,000 to 
$2,000,000. 

4—A sum of $2,000,000 for providing dirigible and kite 
balloons for the Army. 

5—A sum of $1,000,000 for the organization of a civilian 
aviators’ reserve corps. 

6.—A sum of $3,000,000 for providing dirigible and kite 
balloons for service with the Navy. 

7—A sum of $1,000,000 for establishing a chain of aerial 
coast patrol stations, to be operated either by the Navy or 
by the Naval Militia, in cooperation with the Coast Guard or 
separately. 

The figures given below, based on the experience of the 
United States Army Aero Corps, give the estimated cost of 
equipment for one Army aero squadron of twelve machines 
(base number) in the field, always ready for service on the 
first line: 


30 aeroplanes, complete with instruments, etc. (144 spare for 
each one on line at start of year), at $13,500 each, an 
estimate of average cost of high powered service mili- 
. tary machines of latest types...............+2++++..$405,000.00 
20 a ee motors, some machines will be twin motored, at 
‘ Se ere rer ree 100,000.00 
Spare aeroplane parts, one year, for the 30 aeroplanes..... 80,000.00 
i i i OM. ss ns Ka ada siewale apa alaloe 55,000.00 
30,000.00 


Gasoline 
ee a a big. ew den debs oo ea dd Oa 6,000.00 
8,000.00 


ho 54.0) 54.515 0 5 hdd Ka ae 650.00 
Se Ne arg. gc dcare ick adie 8 60 SNe Re Oe MRE 53,000.00 
I EEE IEE ELIE TAG 900.00 
Gasoline, Ge, Ge mrenen Sor GPOGS, CEC. 0.60500 cbaccces 8,000.00 
Field machine shop, tools, machinery, stock and material. . 7,000.00 
SN ile Fos 50 ecka bs nine cal ee eee 20,000.00 


$773,550.00 


This estimate does not include cost of any land, cost of any 
permanent shops, hangars, or other buildings, or pay of any 
officers, civilian expert mechanics, or enlisted men, or of any 
material used in training pilots. 


29 


The Harvard Flying Club 

Several Harvard alumni, led by Robert Bacon, formerly 
Ambassador to France, have established a fund for the train- 
ing of Harvard students in aviation. 

The committee has received many applications from Har- 
vard undergraduates who want to learn to fly, some of them 
among the best athletes in the University. The first nine se- 
lected were Frederick S. Allen of Pelham Manor, Francis T. 
Armory, Jr., of Boston, Edmond H. Bates of West Medford, 
Mass.; William B. Bacon, M. Philip Bryan, and Hamilton 
Coolidge of Brookline, Mass.; Donald D. Harries of Minneap- 
olis, Harry H. Metealf of Westboro, Mass., and Joseph R. 
Torry of Worcester, Mass. 

These men have reported to the Curtiss Aviation School in 
Buffalo and are now in training. Mr. Bacon and the Aero 
Club of America have offered a bonus of $50 for each student 
obtaining his license. The fund now amounts to $4,683, with 
$2,400 pledged for the future. 

The Executive Committee in charge of the collection and 
distribution of the fund are: William Thomas, George von 
L. Meyer, G. Richmond Fearing, N. Penrose Hallowell, Allan 
Forbes, Eliot Wadsworth, Philip A. Carroll, S. Huntington 
Wolcott, E. V. R. Thayer, Charles E. Perkins, Benjamin Joy, 
A. J. Drexel Paul, Roger Armory and Gordon H. Balch. 

It will cost about $400 to train each man so that he may 
be able to take the tests for his pilot’s license, and $10,000 
more is needed to carry the plan to completion. The com- 
mittee invites subscriptions from Harvard men and those inter- 
ested in the welfare of the nation, which should be sent to the 
Undergraduates Aero Training Fund, 40 Water Street, Bos- 
ton, Mass. 





The New York Flying Yacht Club 

The New York Flying Yacht Club has secured permission 
from the Department of Parks and Docks of New York to 
establish a hydroaeroplane station at 129th Street on the 
Hudson River. This club was recently organized by J. C. 
Mars and Augustus Post to provide facilities for owners 
of air craft in New York City. An aviation field will 
also be procured as soon as possible. The club is modeled 
on the plan of the yacht clubs that have been so successful in 
various ports of the country, and is the first of a type that 
is sure to become very popular. One of the first events 
planned is the “ Manhattan Island Derby,” for which a trophy 
valued at $5,000 and eash prizes of $5,000 will be offered. 

There are now twelve sportsmen aviators who live within 
flying distance of New York, and these are interested in the 
North River station, as it will make it possible for them to 
fly to the city each day. They will land at the station and 
leave their machines in the hands of competent mechanics, 
who will have them tuned up and ready for the flight home 
after their owners have finished their day’s work. Three aero- 
plane manufacturers have made application for hangars at the 
station where they can keep machines for demonstration pur- 
poses, 





The Aero Club of Illinois 


A new aerial voluteer foree has been organized in Chi- 
cago by the Aero Club of Illinois under the name of U. S. 
Central Aviation Reserve. Plans for the organization of this 
foree are completed; there will be a full squadron composed 
of three companies, with a total of 149 officers and men. Two 
high-powered tractor biplanes have already been ordered for 
the First company, and all but a few hundred dollars of the 
$20,000 necessary to make the purchase have been subscribed. 

More than 150 men, some of whom have seen military serv- 
ice, enlisted for service with the squadron. 





The Aero Club of Vermont 


The Aero Club of Vermont was organized at Fort Ethan 
Allen, Burlington, Vt., on July 6. The president of the club 
is James Hartness of Springfield, Vt., who is an old-time en- 
thusiast of aviation. Many of the members belong to the Nor- 
wich Military College. 

The formation ceremony was held on the parade ground of 
the state encampment, where the visitors were welcomed by 
Governor Gates. The Aero Club of America was represented 
by Rear Admiral Peary and Augustus Post. 








WasHINGTON, July 31.—No changes of importance are an- 
ticipated in the Naval Appropriation bill as far as aero- 
nautical matters are concerned as a result of the coming con- 
ference of the House and Senate committees, according to 
those who have been following the legislative activities. The 
features of this bill are of special interest, as besides making 
more liberal appropriations than have ever before been made 
in this country, it creates a Naval Flying Corps, a Naval 
Reserve Flying Corps and an Aerial Coast Guard Service 
The proposed appropriations, which amount to $5,762,000, 
will prove a decided spur to inereased aeronautical improve 
ment and advance. A brief summary of the legislation under 
consideration follows: 


The Proposed Appropriation 

For the procuring, producing, constructing, operating, ete., 
of aircraft of different kinds, ineluding dirigibles, and the 
maintenance of aircraft stations and the conducting of experi- 
mental work in the development of the aeronautical science 
for naval work, the sum of $3,500,000 is provided. In addi- 
tion to this, $85,000 is appropriated for the Naval Advisory 
Committee of Aeronautics to cover the expense of office, field 
shop, shed, power plant, instruments, supplies, expenses and 
employees. 

For the purchase of 232 acres of land near San Diego Bay, 
Cal., to be used as an advance base and for expeditionary and 
aviation purposes, $250,000 is made available, provided that 
a certain plot of 500 acres is donated to the service. The sum 
of $420,000 is set aside for repairing the storm damage done 
at the Pensacola aeronautical station and $1,500,000 is made 
available for the Naval Advisory Board’s experimental anid 
research laboratory at Washington. 

The Coast Guard is to receive $7,000, and by another bill 
which has been introduced into both house of Congress an 
Aerial Coast Patrol of the Naval Militia is to be established, 
$1,500,000 being appropriated for the purpose. 


The Naval Flying Corps 

By the terms of the proposed legislation the Naval Flying 
Corps is to be composed of 150 officers and 350 enlisted men, 
in addition to the total number provided for other branches 
of the naval service. One of the interesting features is the 
provision that civilians may join the Naval Flying Corps. For 
two years after the passage of this act the Secretary of thie 
Navy may appoint, in order of merit as determined by ex 
aminations, fifteen acting ensigns or acting second lieutenants 
for the performance of aeronautie duties only. 
pointments may be made from officers, enlisted men or from 
civil life, and shall be detailed in the Naval Flying Corps for 
duty involving actual flying. 


These ap- 
] 


Opportunity for Advancement 

Such acting ensigns of the Navy and acting second lieuten 
ants of the Marine Corps, upon the completion of the pro 
bationary term of three years, may be appointed acting lieu 
tenants, junior grade, in the Navy or acting first lieutenants 
in the Marine Corps for the performance of aeronautic duties 
only. These appointments are for a probationary period of 
four years. The appointees may elect to qualify for aero- 
nautie duties only, or for all duties of officers of the same 
grades in the Navy and Marine Corps respectively. Those 
who qualify for aeronautic duty only shall be detailed to duty 
in the N. F. C, actual flying. 
for regular duties shall be detailed to duty in the regular 


involving Those who qualify 


service for at least two years to allow them to prepare for 
such qualifications. 





Liberal Naval Aeronautical Appropriations Are Expected 


Acting lieutenants, junior grade, and acting first lieutenants 
who have been chosen to qualify for aeronautic duty only, op 
completion of the probationary period of four years, shall 
be commissioned in the grade of lieutenant in the Line in the 
Navy or as captain of the Marine Corps for aeronautie duty, 
only after examinations. They are to be carried on the lig 
as extra numbers, taking rank with and next after officers of 
the same date of commission. A similar course is provided 
for those who qualify for the regular duties of the line, 

It is further provided that acting lieutenants, junior grade 
of the line of the Navy, and acting first lieutenants of the 
Marine Corps, who have completed the probationary perioj 
of four years, may be transferred to the Naval Reserve Fy. 
ing Corps. Officers commissioned for aeronautie duty only 
are eligible for advancement, but not above the grade of cap. 
tain in the Navy or colonel in the Marine Corps. 


Civilians May Be Appointed 

The Seeretary of the Navy is authorized to appoint an 
nually for a period of four years from enlisted men in the 
naval service or from citizens in civil life not to exceed 3) 
student fliers for instruction and training in aeronauties, who 
shall receive the same pay and allowances as midshipmen a 
Student fliers must qualify by exam 
nations prescribed by the Secretary of the Navy. The ap 
pointment of naval fliers shall continue during a period of 
two years, and at the end of that period they shall, on e& 
amination, be transferred to the Naval Reserve Flying Corps 
When actually flying 
they shall receive pay and allowances as midshipmen plw 
The Seeretary of the Navy is authorized t 
establish schools for the instruction and training of student 


the Naval Academy. 


and commissioned as ensigns therein. 
fifty per cent. 


fliers. 
The Naval Reserve Flying Corps 
The Naval Reserve Flying Corps will be composed of 
officers, enlisted men and student fiiers, transferred from the 
Naval Flying Corps. Graduates of the aeronautie school ww 
are not required in the regular service may be commissioned 


ensigns in the Naval Reserve Flying Corps, and members off 


the Naval Reserve Force who are skilled in flying, designing 
or building are eligible for membership in the Naval Reserv 
Flying Corps. 

The Coast Guard Service 

The proposed legislation also authorizes the Secretary d 
the Treasury to establish and maintain not over ten aviatio 
stations on the Atlantic, Pacific, Gulf and Great Lakes coast 
and to detail for aviation duty officers and enlisted men d 
the U. S. Coast Guard Service. Instructors may be employe 
at the salaries of $4,000 and $3,000. 

At the request of the Seeretary of the Treasury, the Sect 
taries of War and the Navy are authorized to receive offices 
and men of the Coast Guard Service for instruction at aly 
aviation school maintained by the Army or Navy. Increasé 
pay is also allowed to those engaged in aviation duty. Nd 
more than a yearly average of 15 officers and 40 men of tit 
Coast Guard detailed for aviatior® duty involving actual flyin 
are permitted to receive increase of pay. 

The Research Laboratory 

The experimental and research laboratory of the civiliat 
Naval Consulting Board, for which the bill approprialé 
$1,500,000, is to be located in Washington and its cost lim} 
has been put at 000,000. The research work is to ineli 
aireraft with ordnance, submarine protection and many thilf 
that will interest the aeronautical engineer. 


$2 


pms 


30 


th 





enants 
nly, on 
» Shall 
in the 
> duty, 
he ligt 
ers of 
Ovided 
ne, 

grade, 
of the 
period 
e Fy. 
y only 
f cap. 


it an. 
in the 
ed 3) 
5 Who 


1en at 


Xai § 


@ ap 
od of 
yn eX- 
Corps 
flying 

plus 
ed to 
udent 


id of 
n the 
| wi 
ioned 
rs of § 
zning 
Serve § 


‘y of 
ation 


n of 
joyed 


ecre 


all 
ase 

Nol 
F the 
ying 


iliad 


The Naval and Military Aero Services 


The Army Orders Forty Machines 


The forty aeroplanes for which the War Department re- 
cently placed orders will be furnished by seven aeroplane 
eoncerns, as follows: 

Twelve Curtiss model R-2 tractor biplanes with 160 h.p. 
engines and six Curtiss twin-tractor biplanes with two 90 h.p. 
engines each ; 

Twelve “Standard” biplanes with 125 h.p. Hall-Seott 
tractor-biplanes ; 

Two Martin, model S, convertible tractor biplanes with 125 
h.p. Hall-Seott engines ; 

Two Thomas tractor biplanes with 135 h.p. Thomas engines; 

Two L. W. F. tractor biplanes with 135 h.p. Thomas en- 
gines ; 

Two Sturtevant steel tractor biplanes with 135 h.p. Sturte- 
vant engines; and 

Two Wright biplanes with 140 h.p. Hispano-Suiza-Simplex 
engines. 

Each concern will also furnish one spare engine with every 
machine. 


Army Aeronautical Reserve is Established 


Acting upon recommendation by the War Department, 
President Wilson signed on July 13 an order establishing an 
Aeronautical Reserve for the U. S. Army, which is to provide 
one aeroplane squadron for each of the twelve divisions of the 
organized militia. Each squadron will be composed of three 
companies and each company will have four machines. 

The President’s order, which is based on the National De- 
fence Act of June 3rd, 1916, will bring 297 officers and about 
2,000 enlisted men of the organized militia to the aeronau- 
tieal reserve; enlistments will begin without further delay for 
the purpose of bringing up the reserve to full strength. 

Any American citizen with experience in aeronautics or 
general mechanical ability may join the reserve and should 
make his application to the adjutant-general of his state. To 
facilitate the work of organizing the reserve, the War De- 
partment will cooperate with the Aero Club of America, its 
affiliated clubs and other societies; aviation schools throughout 
the country will also be encouraged with a view of providing 
speedy and efficient training for officers and men. 

The War Department will accept graduates of private avia- 
tion schools for service after they pass the prescribed exami- 
a in which ease the cost of tuition will be refunded to 
them. 


French Sea Plane Tested for the American Navy 


A new naval seaplane of French construction is being 
tested at Juvisy, France, for the U. S. Navy, under the super- 
vision of the U. S. Naval attaché to Franee. The machine is 
a Paul Schmitt biplane with catamaran floats designed by M. 
Tellier, the French expert; it has a 150 h.p. Salmson engine, 
driving a tractor screw, and nominally controlled (variable) 
incidence. 


Eight Aeroplanes for the California National Guard 


Members of the Pacifie Aero Club are eager to enlist as a 
state squadron, to go to the border with the National Guard 
of California. They have offered to place eight aeroplanes 
and three observation balloons, with pilots, at the disposition 
of the Califorina guard officers. I. C. Irvine, president, and 
Guy T. Slaughter, vice-fresident, of the Pacifie Aero Club, 
are the leaders of this movement. 


National Kite Balloon Presented to the Ohio Guard 


The National Guard of Ohio is the first volunteer force to 
possess a kite-balloon for directing artillery fire. The craft 
was presented to Battery B, Ohio Field Artillery, which is 
stationed at Akron, O., by the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co., 
and is of the same type as the one recently delivered to the 
Naval Aeronautical Station at Pensacola, Fla. 


Massachusetts is Forming an Aviation Company 


The National Guard of Massachusetts is recruiting an avia- 
tion company for its signal corps. Several aviators have 
already offered their services as instructors for the new com- 
pany, and one of the officers will probably be Capt. Harry 
Metealf of the Harvard Flying Corps. 


Mrs. Vincent Astor Christens Sea Plane 


The second seaplane of the New York Naval Militia, which 
was presented by a Citizens’ Committee headed by Vincent 
Astor, was christened “No. 1” on July 11 by Mrs. Vincent 


~ 














Service. 


(U) snternutional Film 


Astor at Brooklyn. The seaplane was assigned to the Second 
Battalion, N. Y. N. M., where it will Le in charge of Ensign 
Pierce. The machine is a Burgess-Dunne biplane. 


The Aerial Coast Patrol is Forming 


The Aerial Coast Patrol, which is being developed under the 
auspices of the Aero Club of America by the National Aerial 
Coast Patrol Commission, of which Rear Admiral R. E. Peary 
is chairman, is about to establish its first unit. 

F. T. Davison, son of H. P. Davison of J. P. Morgan and 
Company, and Robert Lovett, son of R. S. Lovett of the 
Union Pacific Co., have placed an order for a 90 h.p. Curtiss 
flying boat, which will be the first machine of the Aerial 
Coast Patrol. The two gentlemen have also joined the avia- 
tion school at Port Washington, L. I., to begin their training 
as aviators. Three Yale Men, Alan Ames, H. D. Stur- 
tevant and C. D. Wynan, are training at the same school for 
service with the Aerial Coast Patrol. 

It is planned to form a unit of twelve men, all trained 
aviators, four of whom will act as pilots, four as observers 
and four as anti-aireraft gunners. Two experts in wireless 
telegraphy will be added, one to direct a local radio station 
and the other to install and operate the wireless set on the 
seaplanes. The full equipment of the unit will consist of 
four seaplanes, with a number of automobiles and motor boats 
as auxiliaries. 


New Students at the Army Aviation School 
Three more students have joined the Army aviation school 
at San Diego, Cal.; they are Joe H. Hopwood of Fresno, 
Cal., Reuel Martin of Chowehilla, Cal., and Jas. A. Martin 
of Sanger, Cal. 


The Chambers Catapult is Giving Satisfaction 


The seaplane launching service known as the Chambers 
catapult, which has given entire satisfaction on the U. S. S. 
North Carolina, is shortly to be installed on the U. S. S. 
West Virginia and Washington. 


31 








39 AVIATION 





August 1, 19% 








L See 


SETA S\y 





THE STURTEVANT 140 HORSE-POWER STEEL TRACTOR 


A Number of Machines of This Type Are Now Being Constructed for the United States Government 


IT IS REPORTED THAT— 


PHIL RADER, the American aviator who held a lieutenant’s 
commission with the Royal Flying Corps, is now one of the 
instructors of the Curtiss Aviation School at Buffalo, 
where he is responsible for the tuition of eight Harvard 
students. 

O. E. WILLIAMS and ALFRED BOSHEK of the Fenton 
Aviation Schooi of Fenton, Mich., celebrated Independence 
Day at Boise City, Idaho, with exhibition flights. 

ALFRED NOREMBURG, of the same school, is on an exhibi- 
tion tour through the northern part of Michigan. 

JOHN DOMENJOZ, the Franeo-Swiss looper, is demonstrat 
ing acrobatic flying in the Northwest. 

MAX A. HERBERT, Montclair, N. J., has designed a rigid 
airship propelled by four electric motors, which he offers 
for sale to the government. 

WILLIAM EARL DODGE, brother-in-law of John MeCul- 
lough, will take up aero-yachting at Newport this season. 

CAPTAIN HUGH L. WILLOUGHBY, the veteran aviator, 
intends to put a new aeroplane of his own design through 
its paces at Newport, R. I. 

CAPTAIN THOMAS 8S. BALDWIN has been elected a char- 
ter member of the newly organized Aero-Nautical Club 
of Virginia, with headquarters at Newport News, Va. 

LEON CANADY, of Newton, Kan., is unable to volunteer 
his services to the government in conjunction with the 
planned civilian aviators’ training camp, as he has sevy- 
eral exhibition contracts to fulfill during the summer. 

ROBERT WHITE, of Senaca Falls, N. Y., a certified aviator, 
has joined the New York National Guard. 

N. B. ROBBINS, of Des Moines, Ia., and E. O. WEEKS, of 
Eagle Grove, Ia., have offered their services to Adjutant- 
General Guy Logan, commanding the National Guard of 
Iowa. 

C. V. CESNA, the Hutchinson (Kan.) aviator, was seriously 
injured by a bad landing caused by engine trouble. 

H. PAYNE WHITNEY, Yale ’98, is organizing from among 
Yale ‘varsity oarsmen, past and present, an aviation 
corps, which he will equip. 

THOMAS PRESTON BROOKE, of Chicago, has completed 
the construction of a novel seaplane, which he intends to 
try out on the Lake Front at Chicago. 

NICHOLAS R. MAURER, an exhibition aviator of Hastings, 
Minn., has enlisted in the Aviation Section, U. 8S. Signal 
Corps. He has been assigned to the Army Aviation 
School at San Diego, Cal. 

FRANK BRYANT, the Christofferson pilot, gave a number 
of exhibition flights to the people of Maricopa, Cal., on 
July 4th. 

A. C. BEACH entertained the members of the Society of the 
28th Regiment, Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, during 
their annual meeting at Waukesha, with an exhibition of 


spirals and nose-dives. 


TRADE NOTES 


The CHAMBER OF COMMERCE of Redwood City has 
raised $18,000 for the purpose of having Silas Christof- 
ferson, the San Francisco constructor, erect a permanent 
aeroplane factory in that city. 


The POLSON IRON WORKS, LTD., of Toronto, Canada, 
is about to put a new high-speed tractor through its pre 
liminary tests. 

The EXCELSIOR PROPELLER CO., of Saint Louis, Mo, 
has shipped under rush orders from the government 
three aeroplane propellers to the army base at Columbus, 
N. M., where several army aeroplanes are laid up with 
broken propellers. 

The Chinese Government has place an order with the CHRIS- 
TOFFERSON AIRCRAFT CO. of San Francisco for 
the prompt shipment of 25 tractor biplanes. 


The AMERICAN AIRCRAFT COMPANY, of New York 
and Washington, D. C., have acquired the patent rights 
of the Duprée all-metal “aeromobile.” Frank Duprée, 
inventor of the machine, hopes to attain a speed of 100 
miles per — with the “ aeromobile,” which will be fitted 
with 300 h.p. engines. 

R. H. Upson, of the GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO, 
is with the Ohio Field Artillery, and R. A. D. Preston, of 
the same company, who is studying in Europe, will re 
turn home Sept. Ist. 

The following officers of the AMERICAN AIRCRAFT COM- 
PANY, 120 Broadway, New York, have been elected: 
Frank Dupree, president; Howard Huntington, vice-presi- 
dent; Douglas Huntington, secretary and treasurer. 


Thomas Aeromotor Passes Government Test 


Naval Inspector Charles Cresswell, stationed at Ithaca, 
N. Y., in speaking of the test of the first of a quantity of 195 
horse power motors being manufactured by the Thomas Bros. 
Aeroplane Co. for the United States Navy, is quoted as say- 
ing: “The Thomas motor successfully passed its continuous 
eight hour full load run. The motor ran 2050 revolutions 
throughout the test and was noticeably free from vibration. 

The hcrse-power developed was 141 at the propeller shaft 
turning 1230 revolutions per minute. The gasoline consump- 
tion figured out at 12.5 gallons per hour ol the oil consump- 
tion at 1.6 gallons per hour. The motor was remarkably free 
from oil leakage during the run and ealled forth much favor- 
able comment at the end of the test. 

It will be remembered that the Thomas aeromotor was one 
of the first aeroplane motors to fit a self-starter as regular 
equipment. This instrument, a Christenson combination ait 
and gasoline starter, selected by the Thomas engineers alter 
the most exhaustive trials, demonstrated its value by the ease 
with which the motor was started on this test. Throughout 
the run the two Dixie “ 80” magnetos performed with marked 
regularity, all spark plugs firing without a miss. 








Aug 








+ 196 








has 
stof- 
nent 


ada, 
pre- 


Mo., 
nent 
bus, 
with 


IS. 
for 


‘ork 


rée, 
100 
tted 


, of 


)M- 
ed: 
esi- 


1Ca, 
135 
ros. 
ay- 
ous 
ons 
n.” 
aft 
up- 
np- 
ree 
or- 


ye 
Jar 
alr 
ter 
ase 
out 
ced 





August 1, 1916 AVIATION 33 





GENERAL AERONAUTIC COMPANY 


A New Jersey Corporation 








MANUFACTURERS OF 


Monoplanes Biplanes 
Sea Planes Flying Boats 
Aeronautical Engines 





New York Office Main Office of the Company 
110 West Fortieth Street 9 Trust Company Building 
NEW YORK CITY, N. Y. BLOOMFIELD, N. J. 











Eastern || CELESTRON 
Flying School Aeroplane Cloth Varnishes 


Made from Cellulose Acetate 
Conducted at NON-INFLAMMABLE base 


Sheepshead Bay Speedway, N. Y. 
AERO CLUB LICENSE GUARANTEED CELESTRON 
an stir Wien tee inne ie | | Se oe Poe 


motored EASTERN Military Tractor Biplane, equipped with 
dual controls, used. Transparent — NON-INFLAMMABLE — Waterproof 

All students are permitted to attend factory daily or three 
evenings a week to receive training in aeroplane design and 
construction and to become familiar with gasoline motors, in 





order to become competent aviators. Manufactured by 
scala neat Maa cance’ Chemical Products Company 
- . S.A. 

EASTERN AEROPLANE COMPANY, Inc. | | %% Bros Street - Boston, U.S 
wabee ag Hee cn Ruane “EASTAERO™ Manufacturers of Cellulose Acetate for nearly 15 years 























AVIATION August 1, 1916 


All the BEST Aeronautical PROGRESS—NEWS—-ILLUSTRATIONS 











AVIATION | 


AND AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING 














SEMI-MONTHLY, 24 NUMBERS— WITH A TOTAL OF AT LEAST 762 PAGES A YEAR — WILL CONTAIN 








The 24-Part COURSE IN AERODYNAMICS AND AERO- 
PLANE DESIGN, by the Instructors in Aeronautics in the Mass- 
achusetts Institute of Technology. 


SPECIAL TECHNICAL ARTICLES written by the leaders in the 


Profession on Every Phase of AERONAUTICAL PROGRESS. | 


POPULAR AERONAUTICAL ARTICLES in Every Issue, Illus- 
trated by the BEST PHOTOGRAPHS and LOTS OF THEM. 
All the REAL NEWS of the Industry and of the Aviators presented 
in Condensed and Attractive Form. 

The Doings of the AERO CLUBS and all the FEDERAL and 
STATE MILITARY and NAVAL NEWS. 











EVERY NUMBER WILL BE PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED with MANY 
PHOTOGRAPHS—tthe Best that can be procured 








All for One Dollar a Year 











To secure the Best in Aeronautical Periodicals for a whole year, 
send One Dollar to-day for AVIATION AND AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING. 


THE GARDNER, MOFFAT COMPANY 


120 West 32d St., New York 





















































RR a EA ESS EATER: SRE A a enn | 
}} engi titi! UT TTTTTTUTELLULOTUUALERLUUALLLUPELUEELULRODOLUUEI ULLAL EEUU Pe eee OD PEO EL ! | TiN IEGUEDLYTEOYL SULTS EEDLL AL DLE TATTOO NOUOTONOOONOOVOOOCGO ENS OTOOGHAOOOOUCOSE ESTA S000 
2 ] 

| 


Robert G. Fowler 


and 


Charles F. Willard 


wish to announce 
the 
severance of their association 


with the 


L. W. F. Engineering Company 











QUNUNU1ES/ MUMMADES LLL AGGMAARAAMMOO EASTGATE = 


VATE 




















OFFICIAL GOVERNMENT RECORDS OF 


Martin lractors and Seaplanes 





GIVE THEM THEIR ENVIABLE POSITION 







IN THE 







AVIATION WORLD 








Reconnaissance Aeroplanes 


Aero Yachts 






Military Seaplanes 












Glenn L. Martin Company 


LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA 





