DOCUMENT RESUME 
ED 241 821 CE 800 125 


TITLE Income Tax Organizer. The CIRcular: Consumer 
Information Report 9. 

INSTITUTION Bank of America NT & SA, San Francisco, CA. 

PUB DATE Jan 83 

NOTE 8p.; For related documents, see CE 800 121-133. 

PUB TYPE Guides - Non-Classroom Use (055) 


EDRS PRICE MFOl1 Plus Postage. PC Not Available from EDRS. 

DESCRIPTORS Consumer Education; Expenditures; Federal 
Legislation; Guidelines; Human Resources; *Income; 
Pamphlets; Recordkeeping; Resource Materials; *Tax 
Credits; *Tax Deductions; *Taxes; Wcrksheets 

IDENTIFIERS *Income Taxes; *Internal Revenue Service; PF 
Project 


ABSTRACT 


Designed as an aid in preparing federal income tax 
returns, this report explains terms, provides a worksheet, and 
describes sources of tax help. The importance of keeping tax records 
is discussed along with strategies for recordkeeping, types of 
records to keep, and how long to keep them. Explanations of the 
following terms are provided along with references to relevant 
chapters in Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Publication 17: (1) income 


(wages/salaries/other earnings, interest and dividends, capital gains 
and losses, alimony, and retirement plan benefits); (2) adjustments 
(moving expenses, Individual Retirement Account (IRA) /Keogh 
contributions, spouse's income, and contributions to charity); (3) 
deductions (medical/dental, taxes, interest, employees' educational 
expenses, casualty and theft losses, and charitable contributions); 
and (4) credits (child/disabled dependent care, political 
contributions, and energy conservation). A worksheet for recording 
monthly figures in each of these areas as well as in several 
additional areas is provided. Sources of tax assistance which are 
described include: IRS publications, direct IRS help, volunteer 
groups, commercial tax services, attorneys and accountants, and 
enrolled agents. Information in this report is current at the time of 
printing, January 1983, but is subject to change. (DC) 


KRAKKEERAEEKEREERRKAEREEKKEKERREREEKREKKREKEEEKEKEKEEEEREREERKEEREERKRKEAKRKREEER 


* Reproductions supplied by EDRS are the best that can be made bd 


* from the original document. * 
REE KKERREEEREREEREREEREEEKEEREREEEEEKEKREKEEKREEKEREREEKEKKKEREREEER 


. 


“PERMISSION TO REPRODUCE THIS 
MATERIAL 
HaS BEEN GRANTED BY 


> ae 
The CiRcular™ 
U me CUA 


IN MICROFICHE ONLY 


Albert J. Dytch 


TO THE EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES 


Consumer Information Report 9 


INFORMATION CENTER (ERIC).” 


Income Tax Organizer 


U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
NATIONAL INSTITUTE QF EDUCATION 
EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES INFORMATION 


CENTER (ERIC 


— If you start now to organize your personal financial information, you'll 
i have less work to do next year in preparing your federal income tax 
— return. This report provides work sheets, explains terms, and refers you 
be to sources of tax help. 


= The Value 


_ 


( Ce so0la 


of Record Keeping 


Tax time for many people ranks second only 
to New Year's Day as an occasion to make 
resolutions. Next year, you declare, you'll be 


more organized—no more sorting a year's , 


accumulation of records or, worse, finding 
that you've kept few records at all. 


A simple system for organizing will make 
your resolution asier to keep. This report 
offers a framework that you can adjust to 
suit your particular needs. If you use it regu- 
larly this year, you'll have considerably less 
work to do at tax time next year. 


BACKUP Good records do more than just 
make your work easier. They back up the 
figures you've entered on your tax form. If 
the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) ques- 
tions your return, in most cases, the burden 
is ON you to prove your figures. 


The most acceptable forms of proof are 
your records and either actual receipts, 
such as sales slips, canceled checks, 
vouchers, and statements of earnings, or 
photocopies of these receipts. If your can- 
celed checks aren't returned by your finan- 
cial institution, be sure to indicate in your 
check register which chec*s are for tax- 
deductible expenses. If you can't back up 
your figures py these or other means, the 
IRS may disallow your claim and you may 
have to pay more tax—and, in some cases, 
penalties and interest 


STRATEGY A running record of your ex- 
penses can also help you foresee your 
probable reporting method for the year— 
for instance, if you'll be able to itemize 
deductions. As a:ule, you're likely to benefit 
by itemizing your deductions if, during the 
tax year, you have paid large unreimbursed 
medical bills, property taxes, or interest on 
loans ; have given large aniounts to charity; 
or have had major casualty or theft losses 


You may also use the work sheets to help 
you time financial moves. You might, for 
example, see that this would be a good year 
to contribute the maximum allowable to 
your Individual Retirement Account (/RA). 


WHAT TO KEEP in order to claim ad- 


justments, itemized deductions, and tax 
credits, you will need to keep track of a 
number of expenses. Some examples are: 


Business Use of Your Car Keep the pur- 
chase agreement for the car; a log noting 
details of trips, such as mileage and the 
purpose of the visits; and receipts for such 
costs as gas, oil, repairs, license, and 
registration. 


Charitable Contributions You'll need 
receipts and canceled checks (or copies) 
for cash gifts and a record of the fair market 
value of any property donated. Although no 
deduction is allowed for contributions of 
your services, you may be able to deduct 
your out-of-pocket expenses (such as 
transportation costs) while doing such 
work; keep these receipts as well. 


Medical Bills Keep receipts for all pro- 
fessionals’ fees, hospital charges, and 
medicine and drug purchases ; for transpor- 
tation expenses to and from medical care; 
and for health insurance premiums paid 
and reimbursements received. 


Sales Tax If you buy costly items during 
the year (home furnishings, for example), 
keep all records showing sales tax paid on 
them in case the totai exceeds the deduc- 
tion listed in the state sales tax tables (Form 


1040 instructions) for your income and fami- 
ly size. You may deduct the total sales tax 
you paid if it is greater than the tax table 
amount. If it is not greater, you deduct the 
tax table amount plus sales tax you paid if 
you bought a car, motorcycle, motor home, 
truck, boat, or plane. 


HOW LONG TO KEEP You should keep 
records at least until the statute of limi- 
tations for the return expires—which is 
u ,ually three years from the date the return 
was filed or due. 


For your own benefit, you should keep cer- 
tain records longer. If you think your incorne 
may increase in the next few years, hold 
copies of your previous tax returns for at 
least five years in case you're eligible for 
income averaging. And keep records of any 
transaction involving your real estate or 
personal property until you sell or otherwise 
dispose of it; such records will be essential 
in backing up claims of casualty losses and 
Capital gains and losses. 


Organizing 
Your Tax Data 


The work sheets will he!p you keep track, on 
a monthly basis, of figures you'll use to cal- 
culate your income tax at the end of the 
year. You'll wani to note all income you re- 
ceive, by amount and source. You'll also be 
concerned with “outgo’—because certain 
payments and contributions can ultimately 
lower the amount of tax due. (However, 
these sheets are not substitutes for receipts 
and other original records and won't be ac- 
cepted as such by the IRS.) 


Following are general guidelines that will 
help you evaluate your financial data. For 
your convenience, these guidelines are 
cross-referenced to chapters in IRS Publi- 
cation 17, Your Federal income Tax (No- 
vember 1982 edition), which you should 
consult for comprehensive information. 


(Federal and state tax laws differ in several 
important areas. This report presents only 
federal tax law information. Call the Califor- 
nia State Franchise Tax Board at (800) 
852-7050 for state income tax information.) 


INCOME For tax purposes, gross income 


COPYRIGHT 


RANK OF AMERICA NTASA 1980 1981 1982 1983 zg 


is all income from any source except that 
specifically excluded by tax law (such as 
gifts and inheritances). 


Wages/Salaries/Other Earnings This 
includes bonuses, tips, income from side 
jobs, and certain fringe benefits. See Chap- 
ters 7-8 in Publication 17. You must also 
include as part of your taxable income a 
portion of any unemployment compensa- 
tion paid to you, if your income (including 
the unemployment compensation) is over a 
certain amount. See Chapter 13. 


By January 31, anyone who employed you 
during the previous year must give you 
Form W-2, showing your total earnings for 
the year and the amounts withheld for taxes 
and other purposes. If you're paid at least 
$600 on commission, you'll receive Form 
1099-NEC. Attach a copy of each W-2 (and 
any 1099-NEC forms) to your return. 


Interest ana Dividends By January 31, 
the bank or other institution where you save 
will send you a statement of interest totaling 
$10 or more paid in the previous year: If you 
received $10 or more in dividends, you'll get 
a year-end statement from your brokerage 
firm if it holds your stock, or from the issuing 
company if you hold the stock yourself. 


You can exclude from your taxable income 
up to $100 of qualifying dividends. If you file 
ajoint return, you can exclude $200, regard- 
less of which spouse received the divi- 
dends. If you have an ‘All Savers” certifi- 
cate issued before January 1, 1983, you're 
also entitled to a /ifetime (one-time) exciu- 
sion of up to $1.000 of interest earned 
($2,000 if you file a joint return). See Chap- 
ter 9. 


Beginning July 1, 1983, financial institutions 
where you save or corporations where you 
invest may start withholding 10% of your 
interest or dividends for payment of your 
federal income tax. The amount withheld 
will be reported on your year-end state- 
ment, which you should send in with your 
tax return. Under certain circumstances, 
you may be exempt from tax withholding on 
interest and dividends. See Chapter 5. 


Capital Gains andLosses Acapital gain ) 


or loss is your profit or loss from the sale of a 
capital asset—generally, any property you 
own and use for investment. Your calcula- 
tions will include the asset's original cost 
adjusted by such factors as depreciation 
(a portion of the amount the property's 
value has declined), improvement costs, 
and any profit from the sale or exchange of 
the asset. See Chapters 28-32. 


You'll be taxed on 40% of the gain on the 
sale of a capital asset he/d (owned) more 
than a year. The maximum rate at which 
that 40% can be taxed is 50%. 


Other tax advantages apply to the sale of a 
home that serves as your principal resi- 
dence. If you sell your home and buy 
another principal residence (of equal or 
greater value) 24 months before or after the 
date of sale, tax on your gain will be de- 
ferred (postponed). Usually, you're allowed 
to defer your gain only once during any 


2 


24-month period. However, if you sell your 
home because of a job-related move (and 
you qualify for the moving expense deduc- 
tion), you may defer your gain more than 
once. See Chapter 30. 


If you're at least 55 and sell ahome that was 
your principal residence for at least three of 
the last five years at the date of the sale, 
you're ent.‘led to a maximum lifetime exclu- 
sion of up to $125,000 of your gain. 


Alimony This is taxable as ordinary in- 
come. Child support payments are neither 
taxable if you receive them nor deductible if 
you pay them. See Chapter 18. 


Retirement Plan Benefits If you're 
receiving income from a retirement plan, 
federal taxes on this income will be withheld 
by your former employer or the financia! 
institution that administers ycur plan— 
unless you specify otherwise. While the 
federal law authorizing this withholding was 
effective January 1, 1983, in some cases, 
withholding may begin as late as July 1, 
1983. You'll be notified of the actual starting 
date for withholding. 


You can be exempied from withholding by 
notifying whomever administers the plan. 
At the end of the year, you'll be sent Form 
W-2P, which will break down your benefits 
into taxable and nontaxable portions and 
tell you how much was withheld. See Chap- 
ters 5 and 12. 


ADJUSTMENTS These are subtracted 
from your gross income. The remainder is 
your adjusted gross income. 


Moving Expenses Job-related moving 
expenses are deductible whether or not you 
itemize, if they meet the qualifications de- 
scribed in Chapter 15. If your move is within 
the U.S., use Form 3903. If you moved out- 
side the U.S., use Form 3903F. 


IRA/Keogh Coritributions If you have 
an Individual Retirement Account (IRA), the 
maximum annual contribution deductible 
on your federal tax return is $2,000 or 100% 
of your earned income, whichever is less. 
(Earned income, in general, is wages, 
salaries, and professional fees you've been 
paid for personal services. It does not in- 
clude, for example, income from a retire- 
ment plan or interest on investments. See 
Chapter 1.) If you also establish a separate 
IRA for your unemployed spouse, you can 
contribute a maximum of $2,250 or 100% of 
your earned income, whichever is less, to 
both IRAs. You can divide the contributions 
as you choose, as long as you contribute no 
more than $2,000 to either account. 

If you have a Keogh plan, the maximum 
contribution deductible on your federal tax 
return is $15,000 or 15% of your earned 
income, whichever is less. 


For any tax year, you may contribute to your 
IRA or Keogh plan until the date your tex 
return is due (including extensions). If you 
make excess contributions, you must file 
Form 5329; such contributions are subject 
to a penalty tax. See Chapters 12 and 17. 


Employees’ Business Expenses if you 


J 


have unreimbursed travel, entertainment, 
or gift expenses, you may be able to deduct 
these amounts. Unreimbursed travel ex- 
penses can only be deducted if you were 
away from your home for business reasons. 
You may deduct these expenses even if you 
do not itemize your deductions. Your un- 
reimbursed expenses for entertainment 
and gifts may be deducted only if you 
itemize your deductions. See Chapter 16. 


Spouse's Income if you file a joint return 
for 1982, you can deduct 5% of the qualified 
earned income of the spouse with the lower 
qualified earned income, up to a maximum 
of $1,500. From 1983 on, you'll be able to 
deduct 10%, to a maximum of $3,000. 


Contributions to Charity For tax years 
1982 and 1983, you may deduct charitable 
contributions even if you don't itemize. This 
deduction is 25% of the first $100 you con- 
tribute, or the first $50 if you're married and 
filing separately. See Chapter 24. 


DEDUCTIONS Itemized deductions are 
amounts you subtract from your adjusted 
gross income when calculating your taxable 
income. You claim itemized deductions only 
to the extent that their total exceeds the 
“zero bracket amount” for your filing status. 
The zero bracket amount itself isn't de- 
ducted from your income. It’s built into the 
tax tables to simplify your calculations. See 
Chapter 1. 


Medical/Dental For 1982, you may de- 
duct half the amount you spent for medical 
and dental insurance up to $150. You can 
then add the balance of your premiums to 
your other medical expenses. Only the por- 
tion of these expenses that exceeds 3% of 
your adjusted gross income is deductible. 
For 1983, you'll be able to deduct only the 
portion of your medical expenses and in- 
surance premiums that exceeds 5% of your 
adjusted gross incc:ne. Of the amount you 
spent for medicine and drugs, for both 1982 
and 1983, only the portion that is more than 
1% of your adjusted gross income can be 
included in your medical expenses. Re- 
member to reduce your expense claims by 
the amount you were reimbursed through 
insurance. See Chapter 21. 


Taxes You may deduct state and local 
real estate taxes, personal property taxes, 
income tax, excess state disability insur- 
ance payments, and sales tax. Gasoline 
taxes are not deductible. See Chapter 22. 


Interest You may deduct certain costs for 
your credit accounts. You'll get year-end 
statements of interest and finance charges 
paid on your home loan and bank credit 
card accounts. You may also get such 
statements on other credit accounts—for 
charge accounts, car loans, and others— 
either automatically or on request, depend- 
ing on the creditor. See Chapter 23. 


Employees’ Educational Expenses 
You can deduct educational expenses if the 
education is required by law or by your em- 
ployer in order to maintain your salary, sta- 
tus, or job. You can also deduct educational 
expenses that enable you to maintain or 


Usual sources of taxable income. 


INCOME 


For full information, see Chapters 7-14 and 28-32 of IRS Publication 17, Your Federal Income Tax (1982 edition) 


TYPE | JAN | FEB | MARCH 


AUGUST SEPT 


MAY | JUNE | JULY 


APRIL 


— 


Wage/Salary/Other Earnings 


Gross amounts; do not exclude withholdings for taxes, FICA, etc 


Tips Cash and value of noncash tips such as complimentary ticket 


S and services 


Interest From savings, loans, notes, certain bonds, c 


redit union accounts, etc 


Dividends Ordinary dividends (paid from the earnings and profits 


of a corporation) 


Capital Gains (Losses) Those from sale of home or 


personal property such as stocks, bonds, etc 


Retirement Benefits Amounts received from a company or gover 


nment plan, IRA, Keogh, annuity, etc 


1 


Alimony (received) 


| 


| 


| | | 


Other (specify) Net rental income, jury duty payments, gambling winnings, unemployment compensation, excess reimbursements from employer, etc 


Rae 


f 


a 


ae: 


ADJUSTMENTS TO !!'NCOME 


These adjustments are used to determine your adjusted gross income. 
For full information, see Chapters 33-36, Publication 17. 


Disability Pay 


Moving Costs 


IRA/Keogh Contribution 


Alimony (paid) 


Employees’ Expenses 


Spouse's income 


Contributions to Charity 


a ' Various personal expenses may be deductible, to the extent that they exceed your zero bracket amount. 
| TEMIZED DEDUCTIONS For full information, see Chapters 1 and 21-27 Publication 17 (1982 edition). 


TYPE JAN FEB MARCH APRIL MAY JUNE JULY AUGUST SEPT 


Medical/Dental Such as doctors’ fees, medicine, hospital, health insurance, transportation 


I 


Taxes State and local taxes (where applicable) on real estate, personal property, income, and sales 


Charitable Contributions 


‘i 


Interest Home loan, personal loan, credit cards, charge accounts, etc. 


= 


Employees’ Educationa! Expenses For educational exper-ses related to your salary or job status 


Casualty and Theft Losses For damage done to personal and business property. 


| Ee EES BG 


Other (specify) Such as certain job-related expenses, tax advice expenses, and home office expenses 


Credits for certain expenses muy be subtracted directly from the tax you ordinarily would owe. 
CREDITS For full information, see Chapters 33-36, Publication 17 


Child /Disabied 
Dependent Care 


Political Contributions 


Energy Conservation 


Other (specify) 


improve skills necessary to perform your 
job, but not expenses for education that 
qualifies you for a new trade or business. 
See Chapter 26. 


Casualty and Theft Losses You may 
deduct losses from damage to or theft of 
persona! property (such as your home or 
car) and business property. You must re- 
duce the amount of your loss by the amount 
of insurance compensation you receive. 
For 1982, a loss on personal property is 
deductible only to the extent that it exceeds 
$100 for each casualty or theft. From 1983 
on, you'll be able to deduct only the amount 
of your losses (less $100 for each casualty 
or theft) that exceeds 10% of your adjusted 
gross income. See Chapter 25. 


Charitable Contributions You may de- 
duct contributions you make to qualified 
charitable organizations up to a maximum 
of 50% of your adjusted gross income (in 
most cases). If you donate gcods, such as 
clothes or books, you may deduct the fair 
market value of the property at the time of 
the contribution. See Chapter 24. 


CREDITS These are subtracted directly 
from the tax you ordinarily would owe, ac- 
cording to the tax table. 


Child/Disabied Dependent Care You 
may claim a credit ranging from 20%-30% 
(depending on your adjusted gross income) 
of the first $2,400 in eligible work-related 
expenses for one dependent and $4,800 in 
eligible expenses for two or more depen- 
dents. See Chapter 34. 


Political Contributions You're alloweda 
credit of one-half of your political contri- 
butions up to $50 if you're single and $100 if 
you're filing jointly. See Chapter 36. 


Energy Conservation /f your home was 
built before April 20, 1977 and you install 
energy-saving devices or systems in it by 
January 1, 1986, you may claim a credit. If 
you install enerav-saving devices, such as 
irisulation or storm widows, you may claim 
a credit of 15% of your expenses, to a 
maximum of $300. If you install special en- 
ergy systems, such as solar heating 
equipment, you may claim a credit of 40% of 
the first $10,000 of your costs, to a maxi- 
mum of $4,000. These credits are available 
whether you rent or own your home, and 
you Can carry over any unused credits from 
one year to another, through the 1987 tax 
year. See Chapter 36. 


Sources of Hel 


Your signature and the date are the only 
items on your tax return that you must 
provide without assistance. At every other 
step of the wa’, help is available. You can 
get free help .om the IRS or from trained 


volunteer groups working in many Califor- 
nia communities. Or, you can pay a profes- 
sional to do the job for you (fees are deduct- 
ible if you itemize your deductions). 


Having someone else—even the IRS— 
help you does not relieve you of responsibil- 
ity for the accuracy of your return. That re- 
sponsibility remains yours, though a paid 
preparer may also be liable for penalties 
under certain circumstances 


SELF-HELP If you favor the do-it-yourself 
approach, the IRS's library of publications is 
a valuable too!. Besides Publication 17, the 
IRS publishes supplementary booklets on 
such subjects as alimony, child care, medi- 
cal expenses, homeowners’ expenses, and 
business operations in your home. A list of 
titles is on the last page of Publication 17. 


All IRS publications are free. You may order 
Publication 17 by mail, using the order blank 
on the inside back page of the instruction 
booklet that the IR& sails to you with your 
personalized tax return. The other publica- 
tions are available by weiting or calling your 
nearest IRS office, listec in the white pages 
of the telephone directory under “United 
States Government.” 


DIRECT IRS HELP The IRS offers direct 
help to individual taxpayers in three ways: 


1. You can call for advice on figuring your 
taxes or for help with any other kind of tax 
question. No record will be made of your 
identity unless you request a follow-up call 
from the IRS. 


2. If you file your return by April 15, 1983, 
the IRS will figure your tax for you if: (1) you 
use the short Form 1040A or 1040EZ; or (2) 
you use the long Form 1040 and have an 
adjusted gross income of $50,000 or less, 
received only from wages, salaries, tips, 
dividends, interest, pensions, and an- 
nuities and do not itemize your deductions 
or use income averaging. If you're eligible 
for the credit for the elderly or the earned 
income credit and indicate your eligibility on 
the proper line of your return, the IRS will 
also figure these creaits. Enter the basic 
identification and income information on 
your return and mail it to the IRS office for 
taxpayers in your area designated in the 
instruction booklet. 


3. Your iocal IRS office can help you pre- 
pare your return. A complete service is lim- 
ited to those who can't do their own figuring 
because of a disability (including illiteracy). 
Other assistance is available to anyone, 
usually through small group meetings. 


VOLUNTEER GROUPS Volunteers from 
community organizations and businesses 
throughout California offer free tax help to 
the public through two national programs: 
the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance 


(VITA) and Tax Counseling for the Elderly 
(TCE). Volunteers are trained by the IRS 
and the state's Franchise Tax Board. In Cali- 
fornia, you can call (800) 772-2345 for the 
location of VITA or TCE volunteers in your 
area. Or, look in the white pages under 
“U.S. Government, Internal Revenue Ser- 
vice, Federal Tax Information.” 


COMMERCIAL TAX SERVICES A tax 
service will prepare your returns for a fee 
that varies with the complexity of your situa- 
tion. Cail for a general estimate (listings are 
in the telephone directory's Yellow Pages 
under “Tax Return Preparation’), or take 
your documenis to the preparer’s office 
for a firmer quote. Also ask what liability the 
preparers will assume—-whether, for in- 
stance, they will pay any penalties and 
interest if they make mistakes. 


Effective 1983, tax preparers in California 
must meet specific qualifications and must 
register with the State Preparer Advisory 
Committee each year. The state Depart- 
ment of Consumer Affairs will investigate 
consumer complaints about the work that 
registered preparers perform. 


The IRS also sets specific requirements for 
record keeping and reporting as well as 
substantial penalties for preparers who are 
fraudulent or negligent in their work. 


ATTORNEYS AND ACCOUNTANTS At- 
torneys, public accountants (PAs), and cer- 
tified public accountants (CPAs) can pre- 
pare your tax returns and represent you in 
IRS audits. Attorneys can also represent 
you in court if the need arises. PAs and 
CPAs are licensed by the California Board 
of Accountancy to offer income tax prepara- 
tion services to the general public. 


ENROLLED AGENTS These people 
have passed an examination held by the 
U.S. Department of the Treasury. Some en- 
rolled agents are also members of profes- 
sional associations that set additional stan- 
dards for their members. Enrolled agents 
can prepare your return as well as repre- 
sent you in IRS audits. 


Fees for hiring these professionals will de- 
pend on such factors as the complexit, of 
your return and the orderliness of your 
records. As you would with any orofes- 
sional, discuss your situation and ask for an 
estimate before any work is done. 


NOTICE: Bank of America assumes no respon- 
sibility for determining an individual's tax liability 
The descriptions and discussions in this report 
are not intended to be comprehensive, and the 
information is subject to change. Questions 
concerning your individual tax status should be 
directed to the Internal Revenue Service or to a 
qualified tax professional 


Prepared by Bank of America, Box 37128, San Francisco, California 94137 (Ba 


AD-259 (REV 1/83) 


BANK OF AMERICA NT&SA +> MEMBER FDIC 


5 


* 
w 


