<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>THE TRAVELERS INC.
<TEXT>


                         SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, D.C.   20549
                           ------------------------------
                                     FORM 10-K
   [X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
        ACT OF 1934
                    For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
                                         OR
   [ ]   TRANSITION  REPORT PURSUANT  TO SECTION  13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
         EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                 For the transition period from _______ to _______
                                --------------------
                           Commission file number 1-9924
                                --------------------
                                 THE TRAVELERS INC.
               (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                   Delaware                               52-1568099
        (State or other jurisdiction of     (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
    incorporation or organization)
                    65 East 55th Street, New York, New York 10022
                 (Address of principal executive offices)  (Zip Code)
                                    (212) 891-8900
                 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
                                   _______________

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                           Title of each class                                  Name of each exchange on which registered
                           -------------------                                  -----------------------------------------
<S>                                                                        <C>
                 Common Stock, par value $ .01 per share                   New York Stock Exchange and Pacific Stock Exchange

             Depositary Shares, each representing 1/10th of a                            New York Stock Exchange
           share of 8.125% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A

               5.50% Convertible Preferred Stock, Series B                               New York Stock Exchange

               Depositary Shares, each representing  1/2 of a                            New York Stock Exchange
                 share of 9.25% Preferred Stock, Series D

                       7 3/4% Notes Due June 15, 1999                                    New York Stock Exchange

                      7 5/8% Notes Due January 15, 1997                                  New York Stock Exchange

                  1998 Warrants to Purchase Common Stock                                 New York Stock Exchange

     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:   None
</TABLE>

   Indicate by  check mark  whether the  registrant (1)  has  filed all  reports
   required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
   1934 during  the preceding  12 months (or  for such  shorter period that  the
   registrant was required  to file such reports),  and (2) has been  subject to
   such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes     X       No _______
                                                       ---------

   Indicate  by check mark if  disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
   405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,  to
   the  best of  registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive proxy  or  information
   statements incorporated by  reference in Part  III of this  Form 10-K or  any
   amendment to this Form 10-K.  [X]

   The  aggregate market value of the voting  stock held by nonaffiliates of the
   registrant as of March 10, 1995 was approximately $11.84 billion.

   As of  March 10, 1995,  320,960,465 shares of the  registrant's common stock,
   par value $.01 per share, were outstanding.

                        DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

   Certain portions  of the registrant's  Annual Report to Stockholders  for the
   fiscal year ended December  31, 1994 are incorporated by reference  into Part
   II of this Form 10-K. 

   Certain  portions of  the registrant's  Proxy Statement  for the  1995 Annual
   Meeting  of Stockholders to  be held  on April 26,  1995 are  incorporated by
   reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.  






<PAGE>



                                  THE TRAVELERS INC.

                              Annual Report on Form 10-K

                       For Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1994

                            ______________________________

                                  TABLE OF CONTENTS

        Form 10-K
        Item Number
        -----------

             Part I
             ------

        1.   Business . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
        2.   Properties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  58
        3.   Legal Proceedings  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  59
        4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  . . . .  62


             Part II
             -------

        5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and
               Related Stockholder Matters  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  62
        6.   Selected Financial Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  63
        7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
               Condition and Results of Operations  . . . . . . . . . . .  63
        8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  . . . . . . . .  63
        9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
               Accounting and Financial Disclosure  . . . . . . . . . . .  63


             Part III
             --------

        10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant . . . . .  63
        11.  Executive Compensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  64
        12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
               and Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  64
        13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions . . . . . . .  64


             Part IV
             -------

        14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports
               on Form 8-K  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  64
             Exhibit Index  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  66
             Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules  ..  F-1


















<PAGE>






                                        PART I
                                        ------


          Item 1.   BUSINESS.

                                     THE COMPANY

                The Travelers Inc. (the "Company") is a financial services
          holding company engaged, through its subsidiaries, principally in
          four business segments:  (i) Investment Services; (ii) Consumer
          Finance Services; (iii) Life Insurance Services; and (iv)
          Property & Casualty Insurance Services.

                On December 31, 1993, the Company acquired the
          approximately 73% of the common stock of The Travelers
          Corporation, a Connecticut corporation ("old Travelers"), it did
          not already own, through the merger of old Travelers into the
          Company (the "Merger").  The Company's results of operations for
          periods prior to the Merger do not include those of old
          Travelers, other than for the equity in earnings relating to the
          27% previously owned.  See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated
          Financial Statements.

                In December 1994, the Company sold all of the capital
          stock of American Capital Management & Research, Inc. ("ACMR")
          owned by it to The Van Kampen Merritt Companies, Inc. ("VKM") for
          a purchase price of approximately $430 million.  See "Investment
          Services -- Other Operations."

                On January 3, 1995, the Company completed the sale of its
          group life and related businesses to Metropolitan Life Insurance
          Company ("MetLife").  The purchase price for the group life
          business was $350 million.  In connection with the sale, the
          Company agreed to cede to MetLife 100% of its risks in the
          businesses sold on an indemnity reinsurance basis, effective
          January 1, 1995.

                Also on January 3, 1995, the Company and MetLife, and
          certain of their subsidiaries, contributed their medical
          businesses to The MetraHealth Companies, Inc. ("MetraHealth"), a
          newly formed joint venture, in exchange for shares of common
          stock of MetraHealth.  The Company and MetLife are equal partners
          in the joint venture.  The Company's total contribution to
          MetraHealth amounted to approximately $448 million, at carrying
          value.  The Company owns approximately 48% of the outstanding
          capital stock of MetraHealth, and its investment will be
          accounted for on the equity method.  See Note 3 of Notes to
          Consolidated Financial Statements and "Other Information --
          MetraHealth."  All of the businesses sold to MetLife or
          contributed to MetraHealth were included in the Company's Managed
          Care and Employee Benefits Operations.

                The periodic reports of Commercial Credit Company ("CCC"),
          Smith Barney Holdings Inc. ("SB Holdings"), and The Travelers
          Insurance Company ("TIC"), subsidiaries of the Company that make
          filings pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as

                                          1


<PAGE>

          amended (the "Exchange Act"), provide additional business and
          financial information concerning those companies and their
          consolidated subsidiaries.

                The principal executive offices of the Company are located
          at 65 East 55th Street, New York, New York  10022; telephone
          number 212-891-8900.  The Company plans to relocate its executive
          offices to 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013 during
          the second quarter of 1995.

                This discussion of the Company's business is organized as
          follows: (i) a description of each of the Company's four business
          segments; (ii) combined product line information for the
          property-casualty businesses; (iii) a description of the
          Corporate and Other Operations segment; and (iv) certain other
          information.  A glossary of insurance terms is included beginning
          on page 54.

                                 INVESTMENT SERVICES

                This segment includes the operations of SB Holdings and
          its subsidiaries and, through 1994, the mutual fund and other
          asset management activities of ACMR and the Company's interest in
          RCM Capital Management, a California Limited Partnership ("RCM").

          Smith Barney

                SB Holdings provides investment banking, asset management,
          brokerage and other financial services through its subsidiaries. 
          Its principal operating subsidiary is Smith Barney Inc. ("SBI"),
          an investment banking, securities trading and brokerage firm that
          traces its origins back to 1873.  In July 1993, SB Holdings
          acquired substantially all of the assets and certain of the
          liabilities of the domestic retail brokerage business and the
          asset management business of Shearson Lehman Brothers Holdings
          Inc. and its subsidiaries ("SLB") for approximately $1.6 billion
          (the "Shearson Acquisition").  Smith Barney has agreed to pay
          additional amounts based upon its performance, consisting of up
          to $50 million per year for three years based on revenues and 10%
          of after-tax profits in excess of $250 million per year over a
          five-year period.  See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
          Statements.  As part of the Shearson Acquisition, The Robinson-
          Humphrey Company ("R-H"), a regional firm headquartered in
          Atlanta, Georgia, became a subsidiary of SBI.  As used herein,
          unless the context otherwise requires, "Smith Barney" refers to
          SB Holdings and its consolidated subsidiaries.

                Smith Barney operates through approximately 475 offices
          throughout the United States, and 12 offices in nine foreign
          countries.  With over 11,000 financial consultants, the Company
          believes that Smith Barney is the second largest brokerage firm
          in the United States.



















                                          2







<PAGE>





             Investment Banking and Securities Brokerage

                Smith Barney is an investment banking and securities
          trading and brokerage firm serving United States and foreign
          corporations, governments and institutional and individual
          investors.  Its business includes securities, options and
          commodities brokerage for domestic and international
          institutional and individual clients; underwriting and
          distribution of securities; arranging for the private placement
          of securities; assisting in mergers and acquisitions and
          providing financial advisory services; market making and trading
          in corporate debt and equity, United States government and agency,
          mortgage-related and municipal securities and foreign exchange,
          futures and forward contracts; customer financing activities; 
          securities lending activities; investment management and advisory
          services; securities research; and other related activities.

                Smith Barney's investment banking services include the
          underwriting of debt and equity issues for United States and
          foreign corporations and for state, local and other governmental
          authorities.  Frequently, Smith Barney acts as managing
          underwriter in corporate and public securities offerings.  Smith
          Barney also acts as a private placement agent for various
          clients.  In this role Smith Barney helps to place securities for
          clients with large institutions and other eligible investors. 
          Smith Barney also provides financial advice to investment banking
          clients on a wide variety of transactions including securities
          offerings, mergers and acquisitions and corporate restructurings.

                Smith Barney executes securities brokerage transactions on
          all major United States exchanges and distributes a wide variety
          of financial products.  It makes inter-dealer markets and trades
          as principal in corporate debt and equity securities primarily of
          United States corporate issuers, United States and foreign
          government and agency securities, mortgage-related securities,
          whole loans, municipal and other tax-exempt securities and
          emerging market debt securities.  The firm carries inventories of
          securities to facilitate sales to customers and other dealers and
          with a view to realizing trading gains.  SBI is one of the
          leading dealers in municipal securities and is a "Primary Dealer"
          in United States government securities, as designated by the
          Federal Reserve Bank of New York.  Its daily trading inventory
          positions in United States government and agency securities are
          financed largely through the use of repurchase agreements
          pursuant to which Smith Barney sells the securities and
          simultaneously agrees to repurchase them at a future date.  Smith
          Barney also acts as an intermediary between borrowers and lenders
          of short-term funds utilizing repurchase and reverse repurchase
          agreements.  Smith Barney uses derivative financial instruments
          to facilitate customer transactions and to manage exposure to
          interest rate, currency and market risk.  On a limited basis,
          Smith Barney also began structuring derivative financial
          instruments in 1994, as part of its proprietary trading
          activities.  In addition, for its own account Smith Barney
          engages in a limited manner in certain arbitrage activities,
          which primarily seek to benefit from temporary price
          discrepancies that occur with respect to related securities or to
          the same security on different markets.  Smith Barney also
          engages in the borrowing and lending of securities.  In June
          1994, the Smith Barney network of financial consultants began
          selling TIC individual products, primarily variable annuities. 
          See "Life Insurance Services -- Travelers Life and Annuities."










                                          3







<PAGE>







                Smith Barney executes transactions in large blocks of
          exchange-listed stocks, usually with institutional investors, and
          often acts as principal to facilitate these transactions.  It
          makes markets, buying and selling as principal, in common stocks,
          convertible preferred stocks, warrants and other securities
          traded on the NASDAQ system or otherwise in the over-the-counter
          market.  Smith Barney also maintains trading positions in equity
          options, convertible securities, debt options, foreign exchange
          and commodities instruments.  It executes significant client
          transactions in both listed and unlisted options and in foreign
          exchange, and often acts as principal to facilitate these
          transactions.  Smith Barney also sells various types of
          structured securities on both a principal and an agency basis. 
          The firm's securities trading and investment activities involve
          significant risk in that the values of positions carried in its
          trading and investment accounts are subject to market
          fluctuations.  Smith Barney engages in a variety of financial
          techniques designed to manage this risk.

             Customer Financing

                Customers' securities transactions are executed on either
          a cash or margin basis.  Federal regulations prescribe the
          minimum original margin that must be deposited by securities
          purchasers, and exchange regulations prescribe the minimum
          margins that must be maintained by customers.  Smith Barney
          imposes margin maintenance requirements that are equal to or
          exceed those required by exchange regulations.  Such requirements
          are intended to reduce the risk assumed by Smith Barney that a
          market decline will reduce the value of a customer's collateral
          below the amount of the customer's indebtedness before the
          collateral can be sold.  Substantially all transactions in
          commodities futures contracts are on margin subject to individual
          exchange regulations.  Margin, in the case of commodities futures
          contracts, is primarily funded in the form of cash or United
          States Treasury securities. Commodities transactions involve 
          substantial risk, principally because of low margin requirements
          permitted by the exchanges.

                Income earned on financing customers' securities
          transactions provides Smith Barney with an additional source of
          income.  Credit losses may arise as a result of this financing
          activity; however, such losses have not been material.

             Asset Management

                Smith Barney provides asset management services to
          corporations, not-for-profit institutions, pension and profit-
          sharing plans, municipalities and individual investors in equity,
          fixed income and other securities, including commodities futures
          contracts.  The Smith Barney Consulting Group is a money
          management consulting service that offers "wrap fee" and other
          programs for individual as well as institutional investors. 
          "Wrap fee" accounts consist of customer accounts paying a single
          asset-based fee for multiple services that may include brokerage,
          custody and advisory services.  The Smith Barney TRAK(R) program
          provides investors with personalized investment management
          through a broad array of investment portfolios.  SBI receives a
          fee, but does not have specific investment discretion, with
          respect to assets invested through TRAK(R).










                                          4







<PAGE>







                Smith Barney provides asset management services to, and
          sponsors, 132 separate portfolios within 50 investment companies
          that invest in United States and foreign corporate debt and
          equity securities, and municipal and United States and foreign
          government and agency securities, including 11 taxable or tax-
          exempt money market portfolios.  The portfolios managed by Smith
          Barney have various investment objectives, including growth,
          growth and income, income and tax-exempt income.  Smith Barney
          also provides investment management and advisory services to four
          affiliated insurance company separate accounts.

                At December 31, 1994, Smith Barney had total assets under
          management of approximately $74.1 billion, consisting of
          approximately $28.9 billion of money market funds, $26.0 billion
          of other mutual funds and closed-end funds and $19.2 billion of
          other portfolio assets of institutional and individual clients. 
          These amounts exclude assets held in trust by the trust companies
          owned directly by the Company and described under the heading
          "Miscellaneous Activities" below, except for the portion of such
          assets that are held in accounts actively managed by Smith
          Barney.  Smith Barney also sells mutual funds sponsored by other
          organizations.  In addition, Smith Barney's Unit Trust business
          (i.e., unit investment trusts that do not involve continuing
          investment management) consists of the TEST and CST series of
          securities trusts and other proprietary unit trusts.  The TEST
          and CST securities trusts, for which Smith Barney is the sole
          sponsor of the syndicate, consist of municipal and corporate
          securities.  A total of $2.8 billion par value of all series of
          TEST and CST trusts was outstanding as of December 31, 1994.  The
          other proprietary unit trusts, consisting primarily of equity and
          taxable bond trusts for which Smith Barney is the sole sponsor,
          have a market value of approximately $1.8 billion as of December
          31, 1994.  Smith Barney also participates in a syndicate that
          sponsors unit trusts including equity, taxable and tax-exempt
          fixed income trusts.

             Miscellaneous Activities

                In November 1994, Smith Barney sold its interest in HG
          Asia (Holdings) Limited ("HG Asia") for $55 million.  HG Asia and
          its subsidiaries act as brokers and dealers in securities that
          are primarily traded in countries in Asia.

                Certain subsidiaries of the Company are chartered as trust
          companies and provide a full range of fiduciary services with a
          particular emphasis on personal trust services.  Another
          subsidiary offers a broad range of trustee services for qualified
          retirement plans, with particular emphasis on the 401(k) plan
          market.  Each of these trust companies is subject to the
          supervision of the state banking authority where it was chartered
          and uses the distribution network of SBI to market its services. 
          Although these trust companies are subsidiaries of the Company
          and not of SB Holdings, their results are included with Smith
          Barney for segment reporting purposes.  Smith Barney provides
          certain advisory and support services to the trust companies and
          receives fees for such services.














                                          5







<PAGE>







          Other Operations

                In December 1994, the Company sold all of the capital
          stock of ACMR owned by it to VKM for approximately $430 million. 
          Following the sale, ACMR was merged into a subsidiary of VKM, and
          the surviving entity was renamed VK/AC Holding, Inc. ("VK/AC
          Holding").  In connection with the transaction a subsidiary of
          the Company purchased common stock of VK/AC Holding, representing
          approximately 4.9% of the issued and outstanding common stock. 
          The Company also has an option to purchase up to an additional 5%
          of the common stock of VK/AC Holding, exercisable for a two-year
          period beginning in December 1999.  Certain subsidiaries of the
          Company continue to provide services to the Common Sense(R) II
          Funds.1  See "Life Insurance Services -- Primerica Financial
          Services."

                A subsidiary of the Company is the sole limited partner in
          RCM, a limited partnership headquartered in San Francisco,
          California, which provides investment management services,
          principally for pension funds, other institutional clients and
          high net worth individuals.  Assets under management by RCM were
          $22.4 billion at December 31, 1994, as compared to $24.5 billion
          at December 31, 1993 and $23.8 billion at December 31, 1992.

          General

             Competition

                The businesses included in the Investment Services segment
          are highly competitive.  The principal factors affecting
          competition in the investment banking and securities brokerage
          industry are the quality and ability of professional personnel
          and the relative prices of services and products offered.  In
          addition to competition from other investment banking firms, both
          domestic and international, and securities brokerage companies
          and discount securities brokerage operations, including regional
          firms in the United States, there has been increasing competition
          from other sources, such as commercial banks, insurance companies
          and other major companies that have entered the investment
          banking and securities brokerage industry, in many cases through
          acquisitions.  Certain of those competitors may have greater
          capital and other resources than Smith Barney.  The Federal
          Reserve Board has substantially removed the barrier originally
          erected by the Glass-Steagall Act restricting investment banking
          activities of commercial banks and their affiliates, by
          permitting certain commercial banks to engage, through
          affiliates, in the underwriting of and dealing in certain types
          of securities, subject to certain limitations.  Proposed
          legislation has been introduced in Congress that would modify
          certain other provisions of the Glass-Steagall Act and other laws
          and regulations affecting the financial services industry.  The
          potential impact of such legislation on the Company's businesses
          cannot be predicted at this time.












                              
          --------------------

               1    Common  Sense  is  a  registered  trademark  of American
                    Capital Asset Management, Inc. ("ACAM").

                                          6







<PAGE>






                Competitors of the Company's mutual funds and asset
          management groups include a large number of mutual fund
          management and sales companies and asset management firms. 
          Competition in mutual fund sales and investment management is
          based on investment performance, service to clients, and product
          design.

          Regulation

                Certain of the Company's subsidiaries are registered as
          broker-dealers and as investment advisers with the Securities and
          Exchange Commission (the "Commission") and as futures commission
          merchants and as a commodity pool operator with the Commodity
          Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC").  SBI and R-H are members of
          the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (the "NYSE") and other
          principal United States securities exchanges, as well as the
          National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. ("NASD") and the
          National Futures Association ("NFA"), a not-for-profit membership
          corporation which has been designated as a registered futures
          association by the CFTC.  SBI and R-H are registered as broker-
          dealers in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto
          Rico, and in addition are registered as investment advisers in
          certain states that require such registration.  SBI is also a
          reporting dealer to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, a
          member of the principal United States futures exchanges and a
          registered broker-dealer in Guam.  Both SBI and R-H are subject
          to extensive regulation, primarily for the benefit of their
          customers, including minimum capital requirements, which are
          promulgated and enforced by, among others, the Commission, the
          CFTC, the NFA, the NYSE, various self-regulatory organizations of
          which SBI and R-H are members and the securities administrators of
          the 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico and, in SBI's
          case, Guam. The Commission and the CFTC also require certain
          registered broker-dealers (including SBI) to maintain records
          concerning certain financial and securities activities of affiliated
          companies that may be material to the broker-dealer, and to file
          certain financial and other information regarding such affiliated
          companies.

                In addition, the Investment Company Act of 1940 generally
          prohibits registered investment companies managed by affiliates
          of the Company from, among other things, entering into securities
          transactions on a principal basis with affiliated broker-dealers,
          including SBI, and restricts their ability to purchase securities
          in underwritings in which an affiliated broker-dealer
          participates as an underwriting syndicate member.  Transactions
          between Smith Barney and RCM are also subject to certain
          limitations.  

                Smith Barney's operations abroad, described in this
          paragraph, are conducted through various subsidiaries.  Smith
          Barney has representative offices in Paris, Beijing and Manama,
          Bahrain.  Its activities in the United Kingdom, which include
          investment banking, brokerage and asset management services, are
          subject to the Financial Services Act 1986, which regulates
          organizations that conduct investment businesses in the United
          Kingdom (including imposing capital and liquidity requirements),
          and to the rules of the Securities and Futures Authority and the
          Investment Management Regulatory Organisation.  Smith Barney is a
          member of the International Petroleum Exchange, the London Metals
          Exchange and the 









                                          7







<PAGE>






          London International Financial Futures and Options Exchange, and
          as such is subject to the rules and regulations of those
          Exchanges.  In France, Smith Barney operates as a regulated
          securities house, a member of the MATIF, and an authorized mutual
          fund manager.  Smith Barney is a licensed securities company in
          Japan and, as such, its activities in Japan are subject to
          Japanese law applicable to foreign securities firms.  Smith
          Barney is also a member of the Tokyo Stock Exchange and,
          therefore, its activities in Japan are subject to the rules and
          regulations of that Exchange.  Smith Barney conducts securities
          and commodities businesses in Singapore which are regulated by
          the Monetary Authority of Singapore.  Additionally, certain
          subsidiaries of SB Holdings are registered as a "dealer" and
          "adviser" with the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission,
          as an "international dealer" and as an "investment dealer" with
          the Ontario Securities Commission, as broker-dealers with the
          Securities Board of The Netherlands and as a "B license holder"
          with the Zurich Stock Exchange.

                In connection with the mutual funds business, the Company
          and its subsidiaries must comply with regulations of a number of
          regulatory agencies and organizations, including the Commission
          and the NASD.  The Company is the indirect parent of investment
          advisers registered and regulated under the Investment Advisers
          Act of 1940, and of companies that distribute shares of mutual
          funds pursuant to distribution agreements subject to regulation
          under the Investment Company Act of 1940.  Under those Acts, the
          advisory contracts between the Company's investment adviser
          subsidiaries and the mutual funds they serve, as well as the
          mutual fund distribution agreements, would automatically
          terminate upon an assignment of such contracts by the investment
          adviser or the fund distribution company, as the case may be. 
          Such an assignment would be presumed to have occurred if any
          party were to acquire more than 25% of the Company's voting
          securities.  Continuation of advisory and distribution
          relationships under these circumstances could be achieved only by
          obtaining consent to the assignment from the shareholders of the
          mutual funds involved.

                SBI and R-H are members of the Securities Investor
          Protection Corporation ("SIPC"), which, in the event of
          liquidation of a broker-dealer, provides protection for
          customers' securities accounts held by the firm of up to $500,000
          for each eligible customer, subject to a limitation of $100,000
          for claims for cash balances.  In addition, Smith Barney has
          purchased additional coverage from a subsidiary of the Company,
          Gulf Insurance Company, for eligible customers.

                As registered broker-dealers, SBI and R-H are subject to
          the Commission's net capital rule (Rule 15c3-1, the "Net Capital
          Rule") promulgated under the Exchange Act.  SBI and R-H compute
          net capital under the alternative method of the Net Capital Rule
          which requires the maintenance of minimum net capital, as
          defined.  A member of the NYSE may be required to reduce its
          business if its net capital is less than 4% of aggregate debit
          balances (as defined) and may also be prohibited from expanding
          its business or paying cash dividends if resulting net capital
          would be less than 5% of aggregate debit balances.  Furthermore,
          the Net Capital Rule does not permit withdrawal of equity or
          subordinated capital if the resulting net capital would be less
          than 5% of such debit balances.










                                          8







<PAGE>







                The Net Capital Rule also limits the ability of broker-
          dealers to transfer large amounts of capital to parent companies
          and other affiliates.  Under the Net Capital Rule, equity capital
          cannot be withdrawn from a broker-dealer without the prior
          approval of the Commission when net capital after the withdrawal
          would be less than 25% of its securities position "haircuts," or
          deductions from capital of certain specified percentages of the
          market value of securities to reflect the possibility of a market
          decline prior to disposition.  In addition, the Net Capital Rule
          requires broker-dealers to notify the Commission and the
          appropriate self-regulatory organization two business days before
          a withdrawal of excess net capital if the withdrawal would exceed
          the greater of $500,000 or 30% of the broker-dealer's excess net
          capital, and two business days after a withdrawal that exceeds
          the greater of $500,000 or 20% of excess net capital.  Finally,
          the Net Capital Rule authorizes the Commission to order a freeze
          on the transfer of capital if a broker-dealer plans a withdrawal
          of more than 30% of its excess net capital and the Commission
          believes that such a withdrawal would be detrimental to the
          financial integrity of the firm or would jeopardize the broker-
          dealer's ability to pay its customers.


                              CONSUMER FINANCE SERVICES


                The Company's Consumer Finance Services segment includes
          consumer lending services conducted primarily under the name
          "Commercial Credit," as well as credit-related insurance and
          credit card services.  CCC's predecessor was founded in 1912.

          Consumer Finance

                As of December 31, 1994, CCC maintained 828 loan offices
          in 42 states, and it plans to open approximately 50 additional
          offices in 1995.  The Company owns two state-chartered banks
          headquartered in Newark, Delaware, which generally limit their
          activities to offering credit card services nationwide.

                Loans to consumers by the Consumer Finance Services unit
          include secured and unsecured personal loans, both fixed and
          variable rate real estate-secured loans and loans to finance
          consumer goods purchases.  Credit card loans are discussed below. 
          CCC's loan offices are generally located in small to medium-sized
          communities in suburban or rural areas, and are managed by
          individuals who generally have considerable consumer lending
          experience.  The primary market for CCC's consumer loans consists
          of households with an annual income of $20,000 to $50,000.  The
          number of loan customers (excluding credit card customers) was
          approximately 1,250,000 at December 31, 1994, as compared to
          approximately 1,142,000 at December 31, 1993, and approximately
          1,058,000 at December 31, 1992.  A CCC loan program solicits
          applications for loans through the Primerica Financial Services
          sales force.  At December 31, 1994, the total loans outstanding
          generated from this program was approximately $1.1 billion, as
          compared to approximately $765 














                                          9







<PAGE>






          million at December 31, 1993 and approximately $487 million at
          December 31, 1992.  See "Life Insurance Services -- Primerica
          Financial Services."

                The average amount of cash advanced per personal loan made
          was approximately $4,200 in 1994 and $3,800 in each of 1993 and
          1992.  The average amount of cash advanced per real estate-
          secured loan made was approximately $28,400 in 1994,
          approximately $28,800 in 1993 and approximately $26,000 in 1992. 
          The average annual yield for loans in 1994 was 15.41%, as
          compared to 15.83% in 1993 and 16.31% in 1992.  The average
          annual yield for personal loans in 1994 was 20.20%, as compared
          to 20.11% in 1993 and 19.99% in 1992, and for real estate-secured
          loans it was 12.20% in 1994, as compared to 13.14% in 1993 and
          14.05% in 1992.  The average yield for real estate-secured loans
          has been affected by the introduction in 1993 of a variable rate
          product and by decreases generally in prevailing market interest
          rates.  The Company's average net interest margin for loans was
          8.76% in 1994, 8.44% in 1993 and 8.66% in 1992.  

                In the late 1980's, both delinquencies and charge-offs had
          increased, reflecting the recessionary economic environment.  CCC
          took steps to combat this trend, by tightening the credit
          criteria used for making new loans and placing a greater emphasis
          on collection policies and practices.  As a result of these
          measures and recent economic trends, delinquency rates and
          charge-offs have improved from 1992 through 1994.  See
          "Delinquent Receivables and Loss Experience," below.

             Analysis of Consumer Finance Receivables

                For an analysis of consumer finance receivables, net of
          unearned finance charges ("Consumer Finance Receivables"), see
          Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

             Delinquent Receivables and Loss Experience

                Due to the nature of the finance business, some customer
          delinquency and loss is unavoidable.  The management of the
          consumer finance business attempts to control customer
          delinquencies through careful evaluation of each borrower's
          application and credit history at the time the loan is made or
          acquired, and appropriate collection activity.  An account is
          considered delinquent for financial reporting purposes when a
          payment is more than 60 days past due, based on the original or
          extended terms of the contract.  The delinquency and loss
          experience on real estate-secured loans is generally more
          favorable than on personal loans.

                The table on the next page shows the ratio of receivables
          delinquent for 60 days or more on a contractual basis (i.e., more
          than 60 days past due) to gross receivables outstanding:



















                                          10







<PAGE>






               Ratio of Receivables Delinquent 60 Days or More to Gross
          Receivables Outstanding (1)

                                          Real
                                          Estate-
                                Personal  Secured  Credit  Sales   Total
          As of December 31,    Loans     Loans    Cards   Finance Consumer
          ------------------    -----     -----    -----   ------- --------
             1994               2.40%     1.48%    1.05%   1.79%   1.88%
             1993               2.62%     2.15%    1.03%   1.54%   2.21%
             1992               3.02%     2.31%    1.87%   1.48%   2.55%
          __________________________
          (1)   The receivable balance used for these ratios is before the
                deduction of unearned finance charges and excludes accrued
                interest receivable.  Receivables delinquent 60 days or
                more include, for all periods presented, accounts in the
                process of foreclosure.

                The following table shows the ratio of net charge-offs to
          average Consumer Finance Receivables.  For all periods presented,
          the ratios shown below give effect to all deferred origination
          costs.

           Ratio of Net Charge-Offs to Average Consumer Finance Receivables

                                        Real
                                        Estate-
          Year Ended           Personal Secured  Credit  Sales   Total
          December 31,         Loans    Loans    Cards   Finance Consumer
          ------------         -----    -----    -----   ------- --------
             1994              3.50%    0.82%    1.83%   2.03%   2.08%
             1993              4.08%    0.84%    2.56%   1.78%   2.36%
             1992              5.09%    0.74%    4.01%   2.05%   2.84%

              The following table sets forth information regarding the
          ratio of allowance for losses to Consumer Finance Receivables.

            Ratio of Allowance For Losses to Consumer Finance Receivables

                                  As of December 31,
                                  ------------------
                                      1994   2.64%
                                      1993   2.64%
                                      1992   2.91%

          Credit-Related Insurance

                American Health and Life Insurance Company ("AHL"), a
          subsidiary of CCC, underwrites or arranges for credit-related
          insurance, which is offered to customers of the consumer finance
          business.  AHL has an A+ (superior) rating from the A.M. Best
          Company, whose ratings may be revised or withdrawn at any time. 
          Credit life insurance covers the declining balance of unpaid
          indebtedness.  Credit disability insurance provides 



















                                          11



<PAGE>






          monthly benefits during periods of covered disability. Credit
          property insurance covers the loss of property given as security
          for loans. Other insurance products offered or arranged for by
          AHL include accidental death and dismemberment, auto single
          interest and involuntary unemployment insurance.  Most of AHL's
          products are single premium, which premiums are earned over the
          related contract period.  See "Life Insurance Services" for
          information concerning life and accident and health insurance
          other than credit-related insurance. 

                The following table sets forth gross written insurance
          premiums, net of refunds, for consumer finance customers:

                     Consumer Finance Insurance Premiums Written
                                    (in millions)

                                                     Year Ended December 31,
                                                     -----------------------
                                                       1994   1993    1992
                                                       ----   ----    ----
  Premiums written by AHL and its affiliates
    Writings for consumer finance:
     Credit life  . . . . . . . . .                  $ 43.3  $ 36.4  $ 36.0
     Credit disability and other  .                    69.3    49.2  $ 46.7
                                                     ------  ------  ------
       Total  . . . . . . . . . . .                  $112.6  $ 85.6  $ 82.7
                                                     ======  ======  ======
  Premiums written by other insurance companies
     Credit property and other  . .                  $ 52.8  $ 38.7  $ 31.0
                                                     ======  ======  ======


                The increase in 1994 written premiums is primarily the
          result of the increase in receivables and expanded availability
          of certain products in additional states.

          Credit Card Services

                The Travelers Bank (formerly Primerica Bank), a subsidiary
          of CCC, is a state-chartered bank located in Newark, Delaware,
          which provides credit card services, including upper market gold
          credit card services, to individuals and to affinity groups (such
          as nationwide professional associations and fraternal
          organizations).  The Travelers Bank USA, another state-chartered
          bank subsidiary of CCC, was formed in September 1989.  The
          Travelers Bank USA is not subject to certain regulatory
          restrictions relating to growth and cross-marketing activities to
          which The Travelers Bank is subject.  See "Regulation" below. 
          These banks generally limit their activities to credit card
          operations.

                The table on the next page sets forth aggregate
          information regarding credit cards issued by The Travelers Bank
          and The Travelers Bank USA:

















                                          12



<PAGE>


                           Credit Cardholders and Total Outstandings
                                  (outstandings in millions)

                                      As of and for the year ended December 31,
                                     -----------------------------------------
                                             1994         1993        1992
                                             ----         ----        ----
Approximate total credit cardholders       621,000       534,000    423,000
Approximate gold credit cardholders        519,000       478,000    371,000
Total outstandings                         $712.5        $697.1     $538.2
Average annual yield                       11.88%        11.66%     12.12%


      The primary market for the banks' credit cards consists of
households with annual incomes of $40,000 and above.  

      The banks offer deposit-taking services (which as to The
Travelers Bank USA are limited to deposits of at least $100,000
per account).  At December 31, 1994, deposits of unaffiliated entities
were $73.3 million, as compared to $56.5 million at December 31, 1993
and $22.3 million at December 31, 1992.  The increase in deposits in
1993 primarily resulted from a balance transfer promotion conducted by 
The Travelers Bank.

Competition

      The consumer finance business competes with banks, savings
and loan associations, credit unions, credit card issuers and
other consumer finance companies.  Additionally, substantial
national financial services networks have been formed by major
brokerage firms, insurance companies, retailers and bank holding
companies.  Some competitors have substantial local market
positions; others are part of large, diversified organizations. 
Deregulation of banking institutions has greatly expanded the
consumer lending products permitted to be offered by these
institutions, and because of their long-standing insured deposit
base, many of them are able to offer financial services on very
competitive terms.  The Company believes that it is able to
compete effectively with such institutions.  In particular, the
Company believes that the diversity and features of the products
it offers, personal service and cultivation of repeat and
referral business support and strengthen its competitive position
in its Consumer Finance Services businesses.

Regulation

      Most consumer finance activities are subject to extensive
federal and state regulation.  Personal loan, real estate-secured
loan and sales finance laws generally require licensing of the
lender, limitations on the amount, duration and charges for
various categories of loans, adequate disclosure of certain
contract terms and limitations on certain collection practices
and creditor remedies.  Federal consumer credit statutes
primarily require disclosure of credit terms in consumer finance
transactions.  CCC's banks, which must undergo periodic
examination, are subject to additional regulations relating to
capitalization, 










                                13

<PAGE>






          leverage, reporting, dividends and permitted asset and liability
          products.  These banks are also covered by the Competitive
          Equality Banking Act of 1987 (the "Banking Act"), which, among
          other things, prevents the Company from acquiring or forming most
          types of new banks or savings and loan institutions and, with
          respect to The Travelers Bank, restricts cross-marketing of
          products by or of certain affiliates.  CCC's banks are also
          subject to the Community Reinvestment Act, which requires a bank
          to provide equal credit opportunity to all persons in such bank's
          delineated community.  The Company believes that it complies in
          all material respects with applicable regulations.  See
          "Insurance Services - General -- Regulation" at the end of the
          description of the Property & Casualty Insurance segment for a
          discussion of the regulatory factors governing the insurance
          businesses of CCC.

                The Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974
          ("RESPA") has been extended to cover real estate-secured loans
          that are subordinated to other mortgage loans.  Generally, RESPA
          requires disclosure of certain information to customers and
          regulates the receipt or payment of fees or charges for services
          performed.

                Proposed legislation has been introduced in Congress that
          would modify certain laws and regulations affecting the financial
          services industry.  The potential impact of such legislation on
          the Company's businesses cannot be predicted at this time.


                               LIFE INSURANCE SERVICES


                The businesses in the Company's Life Insurance Services
          segment write principally individual life insurance, annuities
          and pension programs.  Most of these products are offered on a
          nationwide basis in the United States.  For information
          concerning the Company's credit-related insurance businesses, see
          "Consumer Finance Services."

                This segment includes the operations of The Travelers
          Insurance Company ("TIC") and the Primerica Financial Services
          group of companies (collectively, "PFS"), including Primerica
          Life Insurance Company ("Primerica Life").  TIC was incorporated
          in 1863.  With $40.5 billion of assets at December 31, 1994, the
          Company believes that TIC, Primerica Life and TIC's other
          subsidiaries together constitute one of the largest stock life
          insurance groups in the United States as measured by assets at
          December 31, 1994.

                Because the Company's interest in old Travelers in 1993
          was accounted for on the equity method, the Company's results of
          operations for periods prior to the Merger do not include the
          full results of TIC's business.  See Notes 1 and 4 of Notes to
          Consolidated Financial Statements.  For informational purposes,
          the premium and other operational information provided below
          includes TIC's businesses for all periods presented.















                                          14


<PAGE>






          Primerica Financial Services

             Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

                The business operations of the PFS group of companies
          involve the sale of insurance, mutual funds and other financial
          products, and consist of an affiliated group of companies engaged
          in (i) the underwriting and administration of individual term
          life insurance throughout the United States and in Canada and
          (ii) securities brokerage, consisting primarily of mutual fund
          sales.  The PFS sales force, composed of approximately 100,000
          independent agents, primarily markets term life insurance and
          certain other products of subsidiaries of the Company, including
          certain loans offered by the Company's consumer finance
          subsidiaries, and other products approved by the Company.  In
          1994, the PFS sales force began selling, on a test basis, certain
          property-casualty insurance products of The Travelers Indemnity
          Company.  See "Property & Casualty Insurance Services --
          Property-Casualty Personal Lines."  Because the great majority of
          the licensed sales force works on a part-time basis, a
          substantial portion of the sales force is inactive from time to
          time.  

                Primerica Life and its subsidiaries, Primerica Life
          Insurance Company of Canada and National Benefit Life Insurance
          Company ("NBL"), primarily offer individual term life insurance. 
          NBL provides statutory disability benefits in New York, as well
          as direct response student term life insurance nationwide. 
          Primerica Life and its subsidiaries together are licensed to sell
          and market term life insurance in all 50 states, the District of
          Columbia, Canada, Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands and
          Northern Mariana Islands.

                For information concerning PFS Investments Inc. ("PFS
          Investments"), see "Mutual Funds and Asset Management," below.

                Premium revenues, net of reinsurance, for PFS for the
          years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992 were $962.4 million,
          $889.9 million and $862.7 million, respectively.  The increase in
          premium revenues in recent years is primarily attributable to
          growth in production and in the retention of in force business. 
          See "Insurance Services - General -- Reinsurance," at the end of
          the description of the Property & Casualty Insurance Services
          segment, for a discussion of reinsurance.

             Life Insurance in Force

                The table on the next page provides a reconciliation of
          beginning and ending life insurance in force for Primerica Life
          and subsidiaries, and related statistical data for 1992-1994.





















                                          15







<PAGE>






                      (in millions of dollars, except as noted)

                                              Year Ended December 31,
                                              -----------------------
                                             1994       1993       1992
                                             ----       ----       ----
          In force beginning of year       $ 317,403  $ 311,276  $ 318,793

          Additions                           57,389     49,300     46,867

          Terminations(1)                    (39,820)   (43,173)   (54,384)
                                             --------   --------   --------

          In force end of year             $ 334,972  $ 317,403  $ 311,276
                                             =======    =======   ========

          The amounts in force at end of
           year are before reinsurance
           ceded in the following amounts  $  94,930  $  82,293  $  87,232
                                             =======    =======   ========

          At end of year:
           Number of policies in force
             PFS                           2,075,600  2,003,491  1,993,686
             NBL other lines                 396,717    406,977    413,063

           Average size of policy
             in force (in dollars)
                PFS                        $ 157,739  $ 154,360  $ 151,636
                NBL other lines               19,079     20,011     21,696
          ______________________________
          (1)   Includes terminations due to death, surrenders and lapses.

                AIDS-related claims, net of reinsurance, as a percentage
          of total net life claims paid by Primerica Life in 1994 and 1993,
          were 7.1% and 6.7%, respectively.  Management believes that
          current pricing and reserves make adequate provision for AIDS-
          related claim experience.

             Mutual Funds and Asset Management

                PFS Investments is a registered broker-dealer and is the
          exclusive retail distributor of the Common Sense(R) Trust mutual
          funds.2  Since the Company's sale of ACMR, a number of intra-
          Company joint ventures, including companies that are part of PFS,
          continue to provide underwriting, transfer agency and custodial
          services to the Common Sense(R) Trust funds.  For the years ended
          December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, PFS Investments' total mutual
          fund sales were $1,322.2 million, $1,266.4 million and $1,071.2
          million, respectively, with sales of shares of the Common Sense(R)
          Trust funds and the

















                              
          --------------------

               2 Common Sense is a registered trademark of ACAM.

                                          16
<PAGE>






          American Capital family of mutual funds collectively accounting
          for approximately 74%, 75% and 81%, respectively, of total sales. 
          The overall increase in sales in recent years is primarily
          attributable to the economic environment and expanded marketing
          efforts for mutual funds.  At December 31, 1994, approximately
          24,000 independent agent members of the PFS sales force were also
          independent registered securities representatives of PFS
          Investments.

          Travelers Life and Annuities

                This section includes the businesses identified by old
          Travelers as Financial Services and Asset Management & Pension
          Services, as well as Transport Life Insurance Company and its
          affiliates ("Transport").  Transport specializes in accident and
          health insurance including cancer, heart/stroke and long-term
          care coverage, and became a subsidiary of TIC in connection with
          the Merger.

             Principal Products

                Travelers Life and Annuities offers individual life
          insurance, annuities and accident and health insurance to
          individuals and small businesses.  It also provides group pension
          deposit products, including guaranteed investment contracts, and
          annuities to employer-sponsored retirement and savings plans. 
          TIC views market specialization as a critical component of
          profitability and has updated its individual product portfolio
          with a range of competitively priced life, long-term care and
          fixed and variable annuity products for its customers.

                Individual life and accident and health insurance provide
          protection against financial loss due to death, illness or
          disability.  Life insurance is also used to meet estate, business
          planning and retirement needs.  Individual accumulation fixed and
          variable annuities are used for retirement funding purposes. 
          Variable annuities allow the policyholder to choose to direct
          deposits into a number of separate accounts, each of which has a
          different investment strategy.  Individual immediate annuities
          are used for structuring settlements of certain indemnity claims
          and making other payments to policyholders over a period of time. 
          In recent years, TIC has increased the amount of individual
          variable annuities that it sells.

                The table on the next page sets forth written premiums,
          net of reinsurance, and deposits for the Travelers Life and
          Annuities unit.
























                                          17







<PAGE>






<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          Premiums and Deposits
                                                              (in millions)
                                                                             Year Ended December 31,    
                                                                            ----------------------------
                                                                          1994         1993         1992
                                                                          ----         ----         ----
<S>                                                                 <C>           <C>           <C>
                Premiums
                 Individual life                                    $     124     $     117     $     109
                 Individual accident and health                           361           344           362
                 Annuities
                  Individual single premium                                21            19            22
                  Group single premium                                     21            27            28
                  Group fixed                                              50           110            86
                                                                     --------      --------      --------
                  Total premiums                                          577           617           607
                                                                     --------      --------      --------
                Deposits
                 Universal life insurance                                 162           163           164
                 Annuities
                  Individual fixed accumulation                           569           577           647
                  Individual variable accumulation                        693           392           232
                  Individual immediate(1)                                  26            34            50
                 Guaranteed investment contracts(2)                       347           918           502
                 Group separate accounts and managed funds(3)             747           772           730
                 Other fixed funds                                        119           265           223
                                                                     --------      --------      --------
                  Total deposits                                        2,663         3,121         2,548
                                                                     --------      --------      --------
                  Total premiums and deposits                       $   3,240     $   3,738     $   3,155
                                                                     ========      ========      ========
</TABLE>
          ______________________________
          (1)   Represents primarily structured settlement annuities, in
                which payments are currently being made to annuitants.
          (2)   The 1992 amount includes the adverse impact of downgrades
                in TIC's financial strength ratings and general industry
                conditions.  The 1993 increase reflects success in
                attracting guaranteed business in alternative markets. 
                Such business was not expected to, and did not, recur. 
                The 1994 decrease also reflects TIC's more selective
                approach to issuing guaranteed investment contracts.
          (3)   The 1993 increase reflects an increase in deposits to
                guaranteed separate accounts offset by a decrease in
                deposits to indexed separate accounts.  The 1994 decrease
                results from the decision, in the third quarter of 1993,
                to no longer market index funds, offset by the transfer by
                the Company of certain assets of one of its employee
                pension plans, which were previously managed externally.

                For information about reinsurance, see "Insurance Services
          - General -- Reinsurance" at the end of the description of the
          Property & Casualty Insurance Services segment.

             Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

                TIC is licensed to sell and market its individual products
          in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam,
          the Bahamas and the U.S. and British Virgin Islands.

                Individual products are primarily marketed through three
          distribution channels:  independent agents, H.C. Copeland and
          Associates, Inc. ("Copeland") and the financial consultants of
          SBI.  Both Copeland and SBI are subsidiaries of the Company.  The
















                                          18

<PAGE>




independent agents, including a core group of approximately 450
professional life insurance general agencies, sell the majority
of the individual life and accident and health insurance and, in
1994, sold 39% of individual annuity premiums and deposits. 
Copeland accounted for 49% of 1994's individual annuity premiums
and deposits.  In June 1994, Smith Barney began distributing TIC
individual products, primarily variable annuities.  Smith Barney
accounted for 12% of total 1994 individual annuity premiums and
deposits.  The price of individual products is affected by long-
term assumptions as to interest, expenses and rates of mortality,
morbidity and persistency, as well as competitive and regulatory
considerations.

      TIC has significantly reduced its writing of group pension
contracts by adopting a more selective approach to the issuance
of guaranteed investment contracts.  Group pension products and
annuities are marketed by TIC's salaried staff directly to plan
sponsors and is also placed through independent consultants and
investment advisers.  The major factors affecting the pricing of
these contracts are the economics of the capital markets,
primarily the interest rate environment, the availability of
appropriate investments and surplus required to support this
business due to risk-adjusted capital standards.  The pricing of
products and services also reflects charges for expenses,
mortality, profit and other relevant financial factors such as
credit risk.

   Life Insurance in Force

      The following table provides a reconciliation of beginning
and ending Travelers Life and Annuities life insurance in force
and related statistical data on a statutory basis for 1992-1994.


                                 (in millions of dollars, except as noted)

                                                Year Ended December 31,        
                                               --------------------------------
                                             1994           1993          1992
                                             ----           ----          ----
 In force beginning of year            $   44,909     $   39,434     $   32,590
 Additions                                  9,265          9,944         10,503

 Terminations(1)                          (5,176)        (4,469)        (3,659)
                                         --------       --------      --------

 In force end of year                  $   48,998     $   44,909     $   39,434
                                        =========      =========      =========

 The amounts in force at end of
   year are before reinsurance ceded
      in the following amounts         $    6,575     $    5,042     $    3,933
                                        =========      =========      =========
 At end of year:
   Number of policies in force            606,089        619,710        623,411
   Average size of policy
          in force (in dollars)        $   80,843     $   72,468    $    63,255

______________________________
(1)   Includes terminations due to death, surrenders and lapses.












                                          19

<PAGE>






             Insurance Reserves and Contractholder Funds

                As life, accident and health insurance and annuity
          premiums are received, TIC establishes policy benefit reserves
          that reflect the present value of expected future obligations,
          net of the present value of expected future net premiums.  These
          reserves generally reflect long-term fixed obligations to
          policyholders and are based on assumptions as to interest rates,
          future mortality, morbidity, persistency and expenses, with
          provision for adverse deviation.  Policy benefit reserves, which
          give appropriate recognition to reinsurance, are established
          based on factors derived from past experience.

                Contractholder funds arise from the issuance of individual
          life contracts that include an investment component, deferred
          annuities and certain individual immediate annuity investment
          contracts. Contractholder funds are equal to deposits received
          and interest credited less withdrawals, mortality charges and
          administrative expenses.  Contractholder funds also include
          receipts from the issuance of pension investment contracts.

                AIDS-related claims paid by Travelers Life and Annuities
          in 1994 and 1993 were 2.1% and 1.2%, respectively, as a
          percentage of total life claims paid, and 1.5% and 0.7%,
          respectively, as a percentage of total health claims paid. 
          Management believes that current pricing and reserves make
          adequate provision for AIDS-related claim experience.

          Competition and Regulation

                For a description of competition and regulation relating
          to the Company's life insurance businesses, see "Insurance
          Services - General" at the end of the description of the Property
          & Casualty Insurance Services segment.


                        PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE SERVICES


                This segment includes the operations of The Travelers
          Indemnity Company and its subsidiary and affiliated property-
          casualty insurance companies ("Travelers Indemnity"), including
          Gulf Insurance Company and its subsidiaries ("Gulf").

                Because the Company's interest in old Travelers prior to
          the Merger was accounted for on the equity method, the Company's
          results of operations for periods prior to 1994 do not include
          the full results of the businesses of Travelers Indemnity.  See
          Notes 1 and 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  For
          informational purposes, the premium and other operational
          information provided below includes Travelers Indemnity's
          businesses prior to the Merger.  For additional information with
          respect to the combined property and casualty insurance
          businesses of the Company, see "Combined Property-Casualty
          Product Line Information."
















                                          20







<PAGE>






          Property-Casualty Commercial Lines

             Principal Products

                Property-Casualty Commercial Lines ("Commercial Lines") is
          organized to serve the needs of its customer base by market:
          National Accounts ("National"), Agency Marketing ("Agency"), and
          Specialty Lines ("Specialty").  Each marketing and underwriting
          area targets specific segments of the marketplace based upon size
          of business, nature of risk and specific customer needs. 
          National serves large organizations, as well as employee groups,
          associations and franchises, and includes the Company's residual
          market business.  Agency serves small and medium-sized
          businesses, with a strategic emphasis on the medium-sized
          businesses, and individuals with commercial exposures, through a
          network of independent agents and brokers.  Protection is
          afforded to customers of National and Agency for the risks of
          property loss such as fire and windstorm, financial loss such as
          business interruption, liability claims arising from operations
          and workers' compensation benefits through insurance products
          where risk is transferred from the customer to Commercial Lines. 
          Such coverages include workers' compensation, liability,
          automobile, property and multiple-peril.

                Commercial Lines also provides policy, loss and benefit
          administration through service agreements, and participates in
          state assigned risk pools.  The primary product serviced under
          these agreements is workers' compensation.  The Company
          emphasizes cost containment strategies and customer service in
          this market.  It has introduced managed care coupled with
          services such as toll free telephone numbers for reporting of
          claims and early intervention in the care process.

                Specialty is written through Gulf and Travelers Indemnity. 
          The principal products of Specialty include various forms of
          professional liability insurance, including directors' and
          officers' liability and medical malpractice insurance, product
          liability, fidelity bonds, commercial umbrella and excess
          insurance, excess property insurance, coverages relating to the
          entertainment and transportation industries, and standard
          commercial property and casualty products for specific niche
          markets.  Specialty also assumes various types of reinsurance on
          both a proportional and a non-proportional basis.

                In December 1994, Travelers Indemnity acquired from CCC
          the 50% of Gulf's parent corporation that it did not already own,
          making Gulf a wholly owned subsidiary of Travelers Indemnity.  As
          of January 1, 1995, Gulf discontinued writing regional property
          and casualty commercial lines of insurance and transferred all
          new and renewal business to Travelers Indemnity.  This allows
          Gulf to focus on its specialty lines of business.














                                          21







<PAGE>






             Premium equivalents, presented in the tables below, represent
          estimates of premiums that customers would have been charged
          under a fully insured arrangement.  The amounts are based on
          expected losses associated with non-risk bearing components of
          each account, as determined in the pricing process.  Premium
          equivalents do not represent actual revenues.

                The following tables set forth written premiums, net of
          reinsurance, and premium equivalents for Commercial Lines.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                    Premiums and Premium Equivalents
                                                              (in millions)

                                                                         Year Ended December 31,     
                                                                 ------------------------------------
                                                                       1994         1993         1992
                                                                       ----         ----         ----
<S>                                                             <C>             <C>          <C>
                Net written premiums by market:
                  National
                    Net written premiums                        $       566     $    731     $    839
                    Premium equivalents                               2,644        2,595        2,289
                                                                   --------     --------     --------
                      Total National                                  3,210        3,326        3,128
                                                                   --------     --------     --------
                  Agency
                    Net written premiums                              1,526        1,556        1,507
                    Premium equivalents                                 334          162           89
                                                                   --------     --------     --------
                      Total Agency                                    1,860        1,718        1,596
                                                                   --------     --------     --------
                  Specialty
                    Net written premiums                                299          212          199
                                                                   --------     --------     --------
                      Total net written premiums and
                        premium equivalents                     $     5,369     $  5,256     $  4,923
                                                                   ========     ========     ========

                Net written premiums by product line:
                  Workers' compensation                         $       907     $  1,001     $  1,023
                  Multiple-peril                                        304          279          291
                  Automobile                                            417          443          448
                  Other liability                                       426          478          468
                  Property and other                                    337          298          315
                                                                   --------     --------     --------
                      Total net premiums                              2,391        2,499        2,545
                  Premium equivalents                                 2,978        2,757        2,378
                                                                   --------     --------     --------
                      Total net written premiums and
                        premium equivalents                     $     5,369     $  5,256     $  4,923
                                                                   ========     ========     ========
</TABLE>

             Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

                National markets programs that involve both insurance
          (i.e., risk transfer) and risk service (i.e., claim settlement,
          loss control and risk management).  Customers range in size from
          businesses with sales of approximately $10 million per year to
          Fortune 1000 
























                                          22

<PAGE>






          corporations.  Each customer typically generates annual premiums
          of at least $1 million and generally selects products under
          retrospective rating plans, large self-insured retentions or some
          other loss-responsive arrangement.  National customers continue
          to demand increased levels of risk service programs where the
          ultimate cost is based on their own loss experience.  Based on
          premiums written and premium equivalents, National constituted
          approximately 60% of Commercial Lines' business in 1994.  These
          large customers are usually national in scope and highly complex
          in their operations.

                A significant portion of Commercial Lines business is
          written with retrospectively rated insurance policies in which
          the ultimate cost of insurance for a given policy year is
          dependent on the loss experience of the insured.  This type of
          policy limits the insurance risk to Commercial Lines.  The
          payment terms and long-term nature of the loss development
          reduces insurance risk and introduces some additional credit
          risk.  Receivables from retrospectively rated policies totaled
          approximately $1.0 billion at December 31, 1994.  Collateral,
          primarily letters of credit, is generally required for contracts
          that provide for deferred collection of ultimate premiums.  The
          amount of collateral required is predicated upon the
          creditworthiness of the client and the nature of the insured
          risks.  Commercial Lines continually monitors credit risk of
          individual accounts and the adequacy of collateral.

                The residual market business of Commercial Lines sells
          claim and policy management services to workers' compensation
          assigned risk pools throughout the country.  Since 1993, these
          contracts have been awarded through a formal bid process intended
          to reduce the number of servicing carriers and to measure the
          quality of service being provided.  Contracts are awarded for a
          term of three years and about one-third of the states are bid
          each year.  Travelers Indemnity has thus far been successful in
          winning nine of 14 bids.

                Agency, which made up approximately 35% of Commercial
          Lines' business in 1994, sells a broad range of commercial
          property-casualty products to small and medium-sized customers. 
          Small accounts tend to be more price-sensitive and make up
          approximately 27% of Agency's business.  The core products for
          the small customer are package contracts covering property and
          general liability exposures.  The product choice for the medium-
          sized customer is a retrospectively rated or a large deductible
          contract covering workers' compensation.  Other coverages are
          sold to complement the core products.  Products are distributed
          primarily through independent agents (for small customers) and
          brokers (for medium-sized customers) working with Travelers
          Indemnity's marketing and underwriting specialists in a field
          office network of 42 locations.  Agency continues to selectively
          streamline its distribution force as management focuses on
          selected markets and producers.

                Travelers Indemnity is also a member of, and therefore
          participates in, the underwriting operations of insurance and
          reinsurance pools and associations, several of which make
          independent underwriting decisions on behalf of their members. 
          These pools insure specialized risks such as property exposures
          of large manufacturing plants, nuclear power plants and
          transporters of nuclear materials and other specialty risks.










                                          23







<PAGE>






             Specialty products are marketed to small, medium, and large
          customers and are distributed primarily through wholesale brokers
          and other specialty producers, including underwriting managers
          for specific industry programs.  The Company's Specialty business
          requires specialized underwriting and generally has better
          combined ratios and lower loss frequencies than traditional
          lines.

                The following table shows the distribution of Commercial
          Lines' 1994 premiums for the states that accounted for the
          majority of the premium volume.

                                                % of
                              State             Total
                              -----             -----
                              New York          11.9%
                              California         8.8
                              Texas              7.3
                              Massachusetts      6.4
                              Illinois           4.3
                              Florida            4.2
                              Pennsylvania       3.7
                              New Jersey         3.6
                              All others(1)     49.8
                                               -----
                              Total            100.0%
                                               =====
          ______________________________
          (1)   No one of these states accounted for as much as 3.0% of
          the total.

             Pricing levels for property and casualty insurance products
          are generally developed based upon estimated losses, the expenses
          of producing business and administering claims, and a reasonable
          allowance for profit.  In addition, most retrospective rating
          plans contain sufficient flexibility that the subjective
          evaluation of a risk by the underwriter can be incorporated in
          the pricing.  In guaranteed cost products, however, loss cost
          inflation has outpaced marketplace price changes.  In addition,
          current economic conditions have constrained business growth,
          thereby decreasing the size of customers' workforces and
          consequently reducing the insurable market.

                A variety of factors continue to affect the casualty
          market.  The Company attempts to avoid exposure to high hazard
          liability risks through careful underwriting, extensive use of
          retrospective rating and reliance on financially secure
          reinsurers.  The workers' compensation line has improved
          dramatically across the industry over the past few years,
          particularly during the last two years, in part due to loss
          management efforts of the insureds and providers such as
          Travelers Indemnity.  These trends are also reflected in the
          workers' compensation book of business at Commercial Lines, where
          workers' compensation combined ratios after policyholder
          dividends have improved from 105.6% in 1992 to 99.8% in 1994. 
          The improvement is due to a variety of factors including, but not
          limited to, legislative reform, economic conditions, insurer
          investment, employer involvement and lower medical inflation. 
          This business is subject to retrospective rating premium
          adjustments, and 














                                          24







<PAGE>






          accordingly the net impact on results of operations of the
          premium adjustment and loss reserve development is minimal.  In
          addition, because of the improving trends within workers'
          compensation, insurers have increased their voluntary market
          share, thereby reducing the size of the involuntary market. 
          Travelers Indemnity's service volume from the National Council on
          Compensation Insurance has declined from $638 million in 1993 to
          $431 million in 1994.  However, its direct assignment volume has
          increased from $26 million for the year ended December 31, 1993
          to $217 million for the year ended December 31, 1994.  Under
          direct assignment, Travelers Indemnity acts as a third-party
          administrator for other insurance carriers to fulfill their
          involuntary pool requirement.

                In the commercial property market, 1994 was another
          difficult year for natural catastrophes.  While the industry's
          catastrophe losses were approximately $13 billion on a pre-tax
          basis, Commercial Lines' catastrophe losses for 1994 totalled $33
          million, pre-tax.  The commercial property market capacity
          remained adequate during 1994, keeping downward pressure on
          pricing. 

                In most lines, pricing did not improve during the past
          year.  For Agency, the duration of the current downturn in the
          underwriting cycle continues to pressure the pricing of
          guaranteed cost products.  In the small account market, which
          primarily buys guaranteed cost products, price increases have not
          exceeded loss cost inflation for several years.  The focus is to
          retain existing profitable business and obtain new accounts where
          the Company can maintain its selective underwriting policy.  The
          Company continues to adhere to strict guidelines to maintain high
          quality underwriting, which could affect future premium levels. 
          Because of its large fee-for-service component, National business
          is less affected by pricing; however, the pricing of large
          account business continues to be very competitive.  Customer
          retention levels remained high in 1994 as a result of Travelers
          Indemnity's continued delivery of quality service, primarily
          claims management focused on loss cost reduction.

                See "Insurance Services - General -- Reinsurance" below
          for information regarding reinsurance.

             Hazardous Substances

                The Special Liability Group ("SLG") was established in
          1986 to deal exclusively with environmental exposures and other
          exposures of a cumulative nature.  SLG is essentially a claim
          operation, segregated from other claim areas within the Company. 
          Its objective is to fulfill all of the Company's contractual
          obligations to its policyholders in a manner that most
          effectively preserves corporate assets.

                Environmental Claims

                As a result of various state and federal regulatory
          efforts aimed at environmental remediation (particularly
          "Superfund"), the insurance industry has been, and continues to
          be, involved in extensive litigation involving policy coverage
          and liability issues.  The possible 












                                          25







<PAGE>






          reauthorization of Superfund in 1995 may have some effect on the
          resolution of these issues, but it is not possible at the present
          time to determine what the potential impact, if any, will be.  In
          addition to the regulatory pressures, certain court decisions
          have expanded insurance coverage beyond the original intent of
          the insurer and insured, frequently involving policies that were
          issued prior to the mid-1970s.  The results of court decisions
          affecting the industry's coverage positions continue to be
          inconsistent.  Accordingly, the ultimate responsibility and
          liability for environmental remediation costs remain uncertain.  

                Certain of the Company's subsidiaries are part of the
          industry segment affected by these issues and continue to receive
          claims alleging liability exposures arising out of insureds'
          alleged disposition of toxic substances.  The review of
          environmental claims includes an assessment of the probable
          liability, available coverage, judicial interpretations and
          historic value of similar claims.  In addition, the unique facts
          presented in each claim are evaluated individually and
          collectively.  Due consideration is given to the many variables
          presented in each claim, such as: the nature of the alleged
          activities of the insured at each site; the allegations of
          environmental damage at each site; the number of sites; the total
          number of potentially responsible parties at each site; the
          nature of environmental harm and the corresponding remedy at a
          site; the nature of government enforcement activities at each
          site; the ownership and general use of each site; the willingness
          and ability of other potentially responsible parties to
          contribute to the cost of the required remediation at each site;
          the contractual relationship between the Company and the insured;
          the identification of other insurers; the potential coverage
          available, if any; the number of years of coverage, if any; the
          obligation to provide a defense to insureds, if any; and the
          applicable law in each jurisdiction.  Analysis of these and other
          factors on a case-by-case basis results in the ultimate reserve
          assessment.

                Environmental loss and loss expense reserves of the
          Company at December 31, 1994 were $471 million, net of
          reinsurance of $11 million.  Approximately 14% of the net
          environmental loss reserve (i.e., approximately $65 million) is
          case reserve for resolved claims.  The Company does not post
          individual case reserves for environmental claims in which there
          is a coverage dispute until the dispute is resolved.  Until then,
          the estimated amounts for disputed coverage claims are carried in
          a bulk reserve, together with unreported environmental losses.

                The industry does not have a standard method of
          calculating claim activity for environmental losses.  Generally,
          for environmental claims, the Company establishes a claim file
          for each insured on a per site, per claimant basis.  If there is
          more than one claimant, e.g., a federal and a state agency.  This
          method will result in two claims being set up for a policyholder
          at that one site.  The Company adheres to its method of
          calculating claim activity on all environmental-related claims,
          whether such claims are tendered on primary, excess or umbrella
          policies.  

                As of December 31, 1994, the Company had approximately
          8,200 pending environmental-related claims and had resolved over
          17,200 such claims since 1986.  










                                          26







<PAGE>






          Approximately 70% of the pending environmental-related claims in
          inventory represent active federal or state EPA-type claims
          tendered by approximately 640 insureds.  The balance represents
          bodily injury claims alleging injury due to the discharge of
          insureds' waste or pollutants.

                To date, the Company generally has been successful in its
          coverage litigation and continues to reduce its potential
          exposure through favorable settlements with certain insureds. 
          These settlement agreements are based on the variables presented
          in each piece of coverage litigation.  Generally the settlement
          dollars paid in disputed coverage claims are a percentage of the
          total coverage sought by such insureds.  In addition, with
          respect to many of the environmental claims there is a "buy-back"
          of the liability under the policy by the Company, together with
          appropriate indemnities and hold harmless provisions to protect
          the Company.

                Asbestos Claims

                In the area of asbestos claims, the property and casualty
          insurance industry has suffered from judicial interpretations
          that have attempted to maximize insurance availability from both
          a coverage and liability standpoint far beyond the intentions of
          the contracting parties.  These policies generally were issued
          prior to the 1980s.  Originally the cases involved mainly plant
          workers and traditional asbestos manufacturers and distributors. 
          However, in the mid-1980s, a new group of plaintiffs, whose
          exposure to asbestos was less direct and whose injuries were
          often speculative, began to file lawsuits in increasing numbers
          against the traditional defendants as well as peripheral
          defendants who had produced products that may have contained
          small amounts of encapsulated asbestos.  These claims continue to
          arise and on an individual basis generally involve smaller
          companies with smaller limits of potential coverage.  There has
          emerged a group of nonproduct claims by plaintiffs, mostly
          independent labor union workers, mainly against companies,
          alleging exposure to asbestos while working at these companies'
          premises.  In addition, various insurers, including Travelers
          Indemnity, remain defendants in a widely publicized action
          brought in Philadelphia regarding potential consolidation and
          resolution of future asbestos bodily injury claims.  The
          cumulative effect of these claims and the judicial actions on the
          Company and its insureds currently is uncertain.

                Also various classes of asbestos defendants, including
          major product manufacturers, peripheral and regional product
          defendants as well as premises owners, continue to tender
          asbestos-related claims to the industry.  Since each insured
          presents different liability and coverage issues, the Company
          evaluates those issues on an insured-by-insured basis.

                The Company's evaluations have not resulted in any
          meaningful data from which an average asbestos defense or
          indemnity payment may be determined.  The varying defense and
          indemnity payments made by the Company on behalf of its insureds
          has also precluded the Company from deriving any meaningful data
          by which it can predict whether its defense and indemnity
          payments for asbestos claims (on average or in the aggregate)
          will remain the same or change in the future.











                                          27







<PAGE>






             Asbestos loss and loss expense reserves of the Company at
          December 31, 1994 were $383 million, net of reinsurance of $319
          million.  Approximately 85% of the net asbestos reserves at
          December 31, 1994 represented incurred but not reported losses.


                In relation to these asbestos and environmental-related
          claims, the Company carries on a continuing review of its overall
          position, its reserving techniques and reinsurance recoverable. 
          In each of these areas of exposure, the Company has endeavored to
          litigate individual cases and settle claims on favorable terms. 
          Given the inconsistencies of court coverage decisions,
          plaintiffs' expanded theories of liability, the risks inherent in
          major litigation and other uncertainties, it is not presently
          possible to quantify the ultimate exposure or range of exposure
          represented by these claims to the Company's financial condition,
          results of operations or liquidity.  The Company believes that it
          is reasonably possible that the outcome of the uncertainties
          regarding environmental and asbestos claims could result in a
          liability exceeding the reserves by an amount that would be
          material to operating results in a future period.  However, it is
          not likely these claims will have a material adverse effect on
          the Company's financial condition or liquidity.

                For additional information regarding asbestos and
          environmental-related claims, see the discussion in Item 7 of
          this Form 10-K, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
          Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

          Property-Casualty Personal Lines

             Principal Products

                Property-Casualty Personal Lines ("Personal Lines") writes
          virtually all types of property and casualty insurance covering
          personal risks.  The primary coverages in Personal Lines are
          automobile and homeowners insurance sold to individuals, which
          account for 97% of the premium volume.  Automobile policies
          provide coverage for liability to others for both bodily injury
          and property damage, and for physical damage to an insured's own
          vehicle from collision and various other perils.  In addition,
          many states require policies to provide first-party personal
          injury protection, frequently referred to as no-fault coverage.

                Homeowners policies are available for dwellings,
          condominiums, mobile homes and rental property contents. 
          Protection against losses to dwellings and contents from a wide
          variety of perils is included in these policies, as well as
          coverage for liability arising from ownership or occupancy.

                In October 1994, Travelers Indemnity sold Bankers and
          Shippers Insurance Company to Integon Corporation for
          approximately $142 million.  Bankers and Shippers Insurance
          Company primarily writes nonstandard private passenger automobile
          insurance.
















                                          28


<PAGE>






             The following table sets forth written premiums, net of
          reinsurance, for Personal Lines.

                                     Premiums
                                     (in millions)

                                             Year Ended December 31,      
                                     -------------------------------------
                                          1994          1993      1992
                                          ----          ----      ----

                Automobile           $  1,187(1)  $    1,202    $ 1,153
                Homeowners                209            122(2)     236
                Other                      37             37         39
                                      --------       --------   --------
                  Total premiums     $  1,433     $    1,361    $ 1,428
                                      ========       ========   ========

          ______________________________
          (1)   The written premium decline in 1994 reflects the sale of
                Bankers and Shippers Insurance Company in October 1994.
          (2)   The written premium decline in 1993 reflects the  purchase
                of additional reinsurance to reduce exposure to
                catastrophe losses.


             Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

                Personal Lines business is distributed through
          approximately 3,000 independent agencies, supported by a network
          of 15 field marketing offices and two regional service centers. 
          The principal markets for Personal Lines insurance are in states
          along the east coast, in the south, and in the mid-west.

                Personal Lines has implemented various programs over the
          past five years in order to improve operating and financial
          results, including expense reductions, the termination of
          contracts of underperforming agents and the withdrawal from
          markets where Personal Lines had a small market share or saw
          little potential for long-term, profitable growth.  While these
          actions have reduced the overall size of the Personal Lines
          business, the core automobile and homeowners insurance businesses
          have begun to grow in terms of policy counts and premium volume.

                In 1994, Personal Lines began writing private passenger
          automobile and homeowners insurance that was marketed on a test
          basis by licensed members of the PFS sales force in two states. 
          This program is expected to expand during 1995 to additional
          states.

                For 1994, Personal Lines business was concentrated in the
          states shown in the table on the next page.

























                                          29







<PAGE>






                                                % of
                              State             Total
                              -----             -----
                              New York          23.1%
                              Massachusetts     16.2
                              New Jersey         8.6
                              Florida            8.1
                              Pennsylvania       6.5
                              Connecticut        5.2
                              Virginia           4.6
                              Georgia            3.9
                              Texas              3.8
                              All others(1)     20.0
                                              ------
                              Total           100.0%
                                              =====
          ______________________________
          (1)   No one of these states accounted for as much as 3.0% of
          the total.

                In addition, approximately 49% of Personal Lines'
          homeowners premiums in 1994 was in New York, Florida,
          Massachusetts and New Jersey.

                Pricing for automobile insurance is driven by changes in
          the relative frequency of claims and by inflation in the cost of
          automobile repairs, medical care and litigation of liability
          claims.  As a result, the profitability of the business is
          largely dependent on promptly identifying and rectifying
          disparities between premium levels and expected claim costs, and
          obtaining the indicated rate increases.  Premiums charged for
          physical damage coverages reflect insured car values and,
          accordingly, premium levels are somewhat related to the volume of
          new car sales.

                In addition to the normal risks associated with any
          multiple-peril coverage, the profitability and pricing of
          homeowners insurance is affected by the incidence of natural
          disasters, particularly tornadoes and hurricanes.  Most policies
          offer automatic increases in coverage to reflect growth in
          replacement costs and property values.

                The high level of catastrophe losses in recent periods has
          led to an expansion of the reinsurance market without a
          corresponding decrease in reinsurance costs.  These factors have
          resulted in a reduced availability of homeowners insurance and
          have led to higher prices for homeowners policies in some
          markets.

                Several insurance companies have attempted to limit their
          writings in coastal areas of the country as a result of heavy
          claim losses sustained from Hurricane Andrew.  Travelers
          Indemnity has stopped writing new homeowners policies in certain
          counties in South Florida and in coastal areas of New York and
          Connecticut.  In addition, Travelers Indemnity has reduced
          agents' commissions on homeowners insurance in certain markets
          within those states previously identified, strengthened
          underwriting standards, implemented price increases, and
          purchased additional reinsurance to limit its exposure to future
          catastrophe losses.  Changes to a company's methods of marketing
          and underwriting in coastal areas of Florida and New 













                                          30







<PAGE>






          York are subject to state-imposed restrictions, the general
          effect of which is to retard an insurer's ability to withdraw
          from such areas.  While homeowners premium volume in Florida for
          1994 was substantially level with 1993, gross exposure to
          catastrophe loss was lower due to a decline in the number of
          policies written, offset by price increases.

          INSURANCE SERVICES - GENERAL
          ----------------------------

                The following table summarizes the financial strength
          ratings of the Company's life insurance companies and the claims-
          paying ratings of its property-casualty insurance companies. 
          These ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold
          securities, and they may be revised or withdrawn at any time. 
          Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other
          rating.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                       Moody's
                                          A.M. Best               Duff &             Investor's           Standard
                                           Company             Phelps Corp.         Service Inc.       & Poor's Corp.
                                           -------             ------------         ------------       --------------
<S>                                     <C>                    <C>                   <C>               <C>
                TIC                     A- (excellent)         A+ (high)             A2 (good)         A+ (strong)
                Primerica Life          A- (excellent)             -                     -             AA (excellent)

                Travelers Indemnity
                 Pool(1)                A  (excellent)         AA- (very high)       A1 (good)         AA- (excellent)
                Gulf Pool(2)            A+ (superior)              -                     -                  -
</TABLE>
          ______________________________
          (1)   The companies that participate in the pool are The
                Travelers Indemnity Company, The Charter Oak Fire
                Insurance Company, The Phoenix Insurance Company, The
                Travelers Indemnity Company of America, The Travelers
                Indemnity Company of Illinois and The Travelers Indemnity
                Company of Connecticut (formerly The Travelers Indemnity
                Company of Rhode Island).
          (2)   The Gulf pool includes Gulf Insurance Company and its
                subsidiaries.

          Reinsurance

                Reinsurance is subject to collectibility in all cases and
          to aggregate loss limits in certain cases.  The Company remains
          primarily liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. 
          Reinsurance recoverables are reported after allowances for
          uncollectible amounts.  The Company also holds collateral
          including escrow funds and letters of credit under certain
          reinsurance agreements.  Uncollectible reinsurance recoverables
          have not had, and management does not expect that any amounts
          becoming uncollectible in the future would have, a material
          adverse effect on the consolidated financial position of the
          Company.  For additional information concerning reinsurance, see
          Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                Reinsurers are selected based on their financial position
          and business practices.  The Company monitors the financial
          condition of reinsurers on an ongoing basis, and reviews its
          reinsurance arrangements periodically.

                At December 31, 1994, the Company had $4.3 billion in
          property-casualty reinsurance recoverable.  Of this amount, $2.6
          billion was ceded to pools and associations, which have the
          strength of the participating insurance companies supporting
          these cessions.  






                                          31







<PAGE>






          The remainder is due from reinsurers.  The two largest
          reinsurers, Lloyd's of London and General Reinsurance
          Corporation, had assumed losses from the Company at December 31,
          1994 of $215 million and $142 million, respectively.  Lloyd's of
          London is currently undergoing restructuring to seek to obtain
          additional capital and to segregate claims for years before 1986. 
          The ultimate effect of this restructuring on the Company's
          reinsurance recoverable is not yet known.  The Company does not
          believe that any uncollectible amounts of reinsurance recoverables
          would be material to its results of operations, financial condition
          or liquidity. See Item 3, "Legal Proceedings," for additional 
          information regarding Lloyd's of London.

             Life Insurance

                The Company's policy is to obtain reinsurance on
          individual life policies for amounts above certain retention
          limits, which limits vary with age and underwriting
          classification.  During 1994, certain subsidiaries of the Company
          increased the level of reinsurance on certain policies. 
          Retention on life insurance risks after reinsurance varies up to
          a maximum of $1.5 million per insured for an ordinary life risk,
          depending on the subsidiary involved, the type of policy, the
          year of issue and the age of the insured.  Other reinsurance
          arrangements are made from time to time to cede or assume
          existing blocks of business.

             Property and Casualty Insurance

                Currently, for third-party liability, including automobile
          no-fault, the reinsurance agreements used by Commercial Lines
          limit its net retention to a maximum of $5 million per insured,
          per occurrence.  For commercial property insurance, there is a $5
          million retention per insured with 100% coverage for risks with
          higher limits.  For large accounts, reinsurance arrangements are
          typically tiered, or layered, such that only levels of risk
          acceptable to the Company are retained.  The reinsurance
          agreements in place for Personal Lines cover 90% of each loss
          between $2 million and $6 million for all third-party liability,
          including automobile no-fault.

                In addition to traditional reinsurance agreements that
          serve to control its exposure to loss, Travelers Indemnity acts
          as a servicing carrier for many pools and associations, such as
          workers' compensation pools.  These transactions are reflected as
          direct business on the Company's books and records.  This
          business is then ceded to the pools and recorded as reinsurance
          ceded.

                Catastrophe Reinsurance


                The Company utilizes reinsurance agreements with nonaffiliated
          reinsurers to control its exposure to losses resulting from one 
          occurrence. For the accumulation of net property losses arising out
          of one occurrence, reinsurance coverage averages 75% of total losses
          between $175 million and $375 million.  For multiple workers' 
          compensation losses arising from a single occurrence, reinsurance
          coverage averages 100% of losses between $10 million and $160 million
          and for losses caused by property perils reinsurance coverage averages
          75% of losses between $175 million and $345 million.














                                          32







<PAGE>




          For Agency-produced commercial property insurance, 25% of all
          losses were reinsured in 1994, subject to an occurrence limitation
          of 200% of ceded premium or an estimated $225 million.  In 1995,
          the quota share is 20%, with a fixed dollar occurrence limit of $225
          million. For Personal Lines homeowners insurance, in 1994, 30% of
          losses were reinsured up to a maximum recovery of $96 million, and for
          1995, 16.25% of losses will be reinsured up to a maximum recovery
          of $64 million per occurrence.

          Competition and Other Factors Affecting Growth

             Life Insurance

                The Company's life insurance businesses compete with
          national, regional and local insurance companies.  Competition is
          based upon price, product design and services rendered to
          producers and policyholders.  The insurance industry is extremely
          competitive, in both price and services, and no single insurer is
          dominant.  Insurance companies that operate through salaried
          personnel and employee agents may benefit from cost advantages,
          once they have achieved sufficient size, over insurers that
          utilize independent agents and brokers.  The PFS sales force is
          composed of independent commissioned agents, and approximately
          40% of the Travelers Life and Annuities individual annuity
          premiums and deposits were sold through independent agents.  PFS
          competes in its market segment by emphasizing the value of term
          life insurance, and aggressively markets its products which often
          replace existing life insurance policies underwritten by other
          companies, including cash value whole life policies.  In January
          1995, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that national banks may sell
          annuities.  It is not clear at this time whether the decision
          will have a positive or negative impact upon the Company's
          annuity sales.

                Savings banks also compete directly in the sale of life
          insurance in Connecticut, Massachusetts and New York. 
          Competition for the savings dollar arises from entities such as
          banks, investment advisers, mutual funds and other financial
          institutions.

                PFS Investments is registered as a broker-dealer with the
          SEC, in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the
          Virgin Islands and Guam, and is a member of the NASD.  It is
          subject to extensive regulation by those agencies and the
          securities administrators of those jurisdictions, primarily for
          the benefits of its customers, including minimum capital and
          licensing requirements.  PFS Investments faces competition not
          only from large financial services firms offering products and
          services that cross traditional business boundaries, but also
          from insurance companies, including other subsidiaries of the
          Company, offering life insurance products with investment
          features.
















                                          33







<PAGE>






             Property and Casualty Insurance

                The insurance industry is represented in the commercial
          lines marketplace by many insurance companies of varying size. 
          Companies may be small local firms, large regional firms or large
          national firms, as well as self-insurance programs or captive
          insurers.  Market competition, regulated by state insurance
          departments, works to set the price charged for insurance
          products and the level of service provided.  Growth is driven by
          a company's ability to provide insurance and services at a price
          that is reasonable and acceptable to the customer.  In addition,
          the marketplace is affected by available capacity of the
          insurance industry as measured by policyholders' surplus. 
          Surplus expands and contracts primarily in conjunction with
          profit levels generated by the industry.  Growth in premium and
          service business is also measured by a company's ability to
          retain existing customers and to attract new customers.

                In addition to traditional insurance services, National
          offers to risk managers of large national accounts programs that
          provide increased flexibility in selecting loss prevention and
          claim services, and premium payment plans.  This business is
          highly competitive on the basis of quality of service provided
          and somewhat sensitive to price competition, and is written
          primarily by Travelers Indemnity and several other very large
          companies.  New business levels remained strong in 1994, and
          retentions remained high in both traditional insurance products
          and risk service programs.

                The bid process for selecting servicing carriers to
          administer the involuntary pools is ongoing and is intended to
          reduce the number of servicing carriers while increasing the
          quality of service being provided.  As the number of servicing
          carriers is significantly reduced, the market share of the
          remaining carriers is likely to grow.  The Company believes that
          a successful bid strategy will allow it to maintain a significant
          market presence in the face of these changes.

                Overhead reductions and improved efficiency through
          automation are key competitive issues for Agency business. 
          During the past several years, Agency management has taken
          significant steps to streamline this operation and establish
          efficiencies to make these products more competitive in the
          marketplace.  In addition, Travelers Indemnity believes that its
          breadth of products, highly qualified field staff and applied
          technology provide for distinct competitive advantages.  The
          highly competitive business for medium-sized accounts has
          historically been written by companies dealing through agents and
          brokers, although some direct writing companies are represented
          in the field.  A competitive advantage resides in local
          representation and underwriting authority.  With emphasis on
          regional locations and resident entrepreneurs marketing the full
          spectrum of Travelers Indemnity's commercial products, Travelers
          Indemnity believes it has created significant opportunity for
          growth in this area.

                The marketplace in which Specialty competes includes small
          to medium-sized niche companies that focus on certain types of
          risk and larger companies or branches/divisions of 












                                          34







<PAGE>






          multi-line companies that offer numerous products covering
          various risks.  Distribution of products is generally through
          wholesale and/or retail brokers.  Specialty's underwriting
          responsiveness and quality are key to maintaining broker
          relationships.  A competitive advantage resides in the cross-
          selling opportunities of Specialty products through Agency and
          National underwriters, agents and brokers.

                The insurance industry is represented in the personal
          lines marketplace by many hundreds of insurance companies of
          varying size.  Although national companies write the majority of
          the business, local or regional companies are effective
          competitors because of their expense structure or because they
          specialize in providing coverage to particular risk groups.

                Personal automobile and homeowners insurance is marketed
          mainly through one of two distribution systems: independent
          agents or direct writing.  The Company's Personal Lines unit
          operates through 3,000 independent agents who usually represent
          several unrelated property-casualty companies.  Direct writing
          companies operate either by mail or through exclusive agents or
          sales representatives.  Due in part to the expense advantage that
          direct writers typically have relative to agency companies, the
          direct writers have been able to gradually expand their market
          share.  Personal Lines continues to focus on the independent
          agency distribution system, recognizing the service and
          underwriting advantages the agent can deliver.  In addition,
          Personal Lines has taken advantage of complementary distribution
          mechanisms, including affinity groups, mortgage lenders and the
          independent agents of the PFS sales force, and plans to continue
          to pursue other opportunities as they arise.

                In recent years, reductions in the volume of Personal
          Lines voluntary business have caused similar reductions in the
          involuntary business assigned to the Company.  However, this
          trend has been somewhat offset by increases in the size of many
          of the pools themselves.  Intense regulation in the personal
          automobile insurance business has caused some insurance companies
          to withdraw from or reduce their writings in the personal lines
          market, which has forced more individuals to obtain insurance in
          the involuntary market.

          Regulation

                The Company's insurance subsidiaries are subject to
          considerable regulation and supervision by insurance departments
          or other authorities in each state or other jurisdiction in which
          they transact business.  The laws of the various jurisdictions
          establish supervisory and regulatory agencies with broad
          administrative powers.  The purpose of such regulation and
          supervision is primarily to provide safeguards for policyholders,
          rather than to protect the interests of the insurers'
          stockholders.   Typically, state regulation extends to such
          matters as licensing companies, regulating the type, amount and
          quality of permitted investments, licensing agents, regulating
          aspects of a company's relationship with its agents, requiring
          triennial financial examinations, market conduct surveys, reports
          on financial condition, recording complaints, restricting expenses,
          commissions and new business issued, restricting use of some 
          underwriting criteria, regulating rates, forms and advertising, 










                                          35







<PAGE>






          specifying what might constitute unfair practices, fixing maximum
          interest rates on policy loans and establishing minimum reserve
          requirements and minimum policy surrender values.  Such powers
          also extend to premium rate regulation, which varies from open
          competition to limited review upon implementation, to requirements
          for prior approval for rate changes.  State regulation may also cover
          capital and surplus and actuarial reserve maintenance, setting 
          solvency standards, mandating loss ratios for certain kinds of 
          insurance, limiting the grounds for cancellation or nonrenewal of
          policies and regulating solicitation and replacement practices.
          State laws also regulate transactions and dividends between an
          insurance company and its parent or affiliates, and require prior
          approval or notification of any change in control of an insurance
          subsidiary.  In addition, under insurance holding company legislation,
          most states regulate affiliated groups with respect to intercorporate
          transfers of assets, service arrangements and dividend payments from
          insurance subsidiaries.

                The insurance industry generally is exempt from federal
          antitrust laws because of the application of the McCarran-
          Ferguson Act.  In recent years, legislation has been introduced
          to modify or repeal the McCarran-Ferguson Act.  The effect of any
          such modification or repeal cannot currently be determined.

                Virtually all states mandate participation in insurance
          guaranty associations and/or insolvency funds, which assess
          insurance companies in order to fund claims of policyholders of
          insolvent insurance companies.  Under these arrangements,
          insurers are assessed their proportionate share (based on
          premiums written for the relevant lines of insurance in that
          state each year) of the estimated loss and loss expense of
          insolvent insurers.  Similarly, as a condition to writing a line
          of property and casualty business, many states mandate
          participation in "fair plans" and/or "assigned risk pools" that
          underwrite insurance for individuals and businesses that are
          otherwise unable to obtain insurance.  Participation is based on
          the amount of premiums written in past years by the participating
          company in an individual state for the classes of insurance
          involved.  These plans or pools traditionally have been
          unprofitable, although the effect of their performance has been
          partially mitigated in certain lines of insurance by the states'
          allowance of increases in rates for business voluntarily written
          by plan or pool participants in such states.  For workers'
          compensation plans or pools the effect may be further mitigated
          by the method of participation selected by insurance companies.

                In addition to state insurance laws, the Company's
          insurance subsidiaries are also subject to general business and
          corporation laws, state securities laws, consumer protection
          laws, fair credit reporting acts and other laws.

                Certain variable life insurance and individual variable
          annuities and their related separate accounts are subject to
          regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission.

                Health care reform has been at the forefront of domestic
          policy issues at the federal level and is a leading issue in many
          state legislatures in 1995.  Various proposals have been
          introduced and a great deal of uncertainty remains regarding what
          the final health reform 










                                          36







<PAGE>






          package will contain or what effect it will have on the Company's
          businesses, including its investment in MetraHealth.  These
          proposals may also affect workers' compensation and automobile
          insurance.  Furthermore, a number of states have passed, or are
          considering, some form of health care reform.  Such state
          regulation primarily impacts fully insured small employer plans. 
          The overall impact of federal or state legislation on the
          Company's businesses is impossible to predict at this time.  The
          Company continues to monitor political and legislative activity
          that addresses the cost, availability and quality of health care.

                Many jurisdictions require prior regulatory approval of
          rate and rating plan changes and some impose restrictions on the
          cancellation or nonrenewal of risks and the termination of agency
          contracts, or have regulations that preclude immediate withdrawal
          from certain lines of business.  Certain lines of business, such
          as commercial automobile and workers' compensation, experience
          rate inadequacies in many jurisdictions.  Automobile insurance is
          also subject to varying regulatory requirements as to mandated
          coverages and availability, such as no-fault benefits, assigned
          risk pools, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting
          associations.  The added expense associated with involuntary
          pools in this and other areas has adversely affected
          profitability.

                See "Property-Casualty Commercial Lines -- Hazardous
          Substances" on pages 25 through 28 for a discussion of the
          effect on the Company of various state and federal regulatory
          efforts aimed at environmental remediation, including proposed
          amendments to the federal Superfund statute.

                In December 1992, the Florida legislature created the
          Residential Property and Casualty Joint Underwriting Association
          ("RPCJUA") to provide residential property and casualty insurance
          to individuals who cannot obtain coverage in the voluntary
          market.  Property-casualty insurance companies in Florida,
          including Travelers Indemnity, will be required to share the risk
          in the RPCJUA.

                In November 1993, the Florida legislature created a
          Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund to provide reimbursement to
          insurers for a portion of their future catastrophic hurricane
          losses.  This Hurricane Catastrophe Fund will be funded in part
          by assessments on insurance companies.

                Proposed legislation has been introduced in Congress that
          would modify certain laws and regulations affecting the financial
          services industry, including the provisions regarding
          affiliations among insurance companies, investment banks and
          commercial banks.  The potential impact of such legislation on
          the Company's businesses cannot be predicted at this time.

             Recent Developments in Insurance Regulations

                The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (the
          "NAIC") adopted risk-based capital ("RBC") requirements for life
          insurance companies in 1992, effective with 














                                          37







<PAGE>






          reporting for 1993, and for property-casualty companies in
          December 1993, effective with reporting for 1994.  The RBC
          requirements are to be used as early warning tools by the NAIC
          and states to identify companies that merit further regulatory
          action.

                For these purposes, an insurer's surplus is measured in
          relation to its specific asset and liability profiles.  A
          company's risk-based capital is calculated by applying factors to
          various asset, premium and reserve items, where the factor is
          higher for those items with greater underlying risk and lower for
          less risky items.

                The life formula calculates baseline life risk-based
          capital ("LRBC") as a mathematical combination of amounts for the
          following four categories of risk:  asset risk (i.e., the risk of
          asset default), insurance risk (i.e., the risk of adverse
          mortality and morbidity experience), interest rate risk (i.e.,
          the risk of loss due to changes in interest rates) and business
          risk (i.e., normal business and management risk).

                Fifty percent of the baseline LRBC calculation is defined
          as Authorized Control Level RBC.  The insurer's ratio of adjusted
          capital to Authorized Control Level RBC (the "RBC ratio") can
          then be calculated from data contained in the annual statement. 
          Adjusted capital is defined as the sum of statutory capital,
          statutory surplus, asset valuation reserve, voluntary investment
          reserves and one-half the policyholder dividend liability.

                The property-casualty formula calculates baseline
          property-casualty risk-based capital ("PCRBC") as a mathematical
          combination of amounts for the following categories of risk: 
          asset risk, credit risk (i.e., the risk of nonpayment of amounts
          due under reinsurance ceded and other miscellaneous receivables),
          off-balance-sheet risk (i.e., the risk of loss due to adverse
          experience from non-controlled assets, guarantees for affiliates,
          contingent liabilities, and reserve and premium growth) and
          underwriting risk (i.e., the risk associated with loss reserves
          and written premiums).

                Forty percent of the baseline PCRBC calculation is defined
          as Authorized Control Level RBC for 1994 (this percentage will
          increase to 45% for 1995 and to 50% by 1996).  The PCRBC ratio is
          then calculated from data contained in the annual statement.

                Within certain ratio ranges, regulators have increasing
          authority to take action as the RBC ratio decreases.  There are
          four levels of regulatory action.  The first of these levels is
          the "company action level."  The RBC ratio for this level is less
          than 200% but greater than 150%.  Insurers within this level must
          submit a comprehensive plan (an "RBC plan") to the commissioner. 
          The next level is the "regulatory action level."  The RBC ratio
          for this level is less than 150% but greater than 100%.  An
          insurer within this level must submit an RBC plan, is subject to
          an examination of assets, liabilities and operations by the
          commissioner, and is subject to provisions of any corrective
          order subsequently issued by the commissioner.  The third level
          is the "authorized control level."  The RBC ratio for this level
          is less than 100% but greater than 70%.  At this level, the
          commissioner takes action as described under "regulatory action
          level" and may cause the insurer to be placed under regulatory
          control if 









                                          38







<PAGE>






          such action is deemed to be in the best interests of
          policyholders.  The fourth level is the "mandatory control
          level."  The RBC ratio for this level is less than 70%, and the
          commissioner takes actions necessary to place the insurer under
          regulatory control.

                The formulas have not been designed to differentiate among
          adequately capitalized companies which operate with higher levels
          of capital.  Therefore, it is inappropriate and ineffective to
          use the formulas to rate or to rank such companies.  At December
          31, 1994, all of the Company's life and property-casualty
          insurance companies had adjusted capital in excess of amounts
          requiring regulatory action at any of the four levels.

                As part of the process of accreditation by the NAIC, state
          insurance regulators have been recommending the adoption of new
          statutory standards for the payment of dividends by insurance
          companies without prior approval.  As part of this effort, the
          Connecticut General Assembly passed legislation to require prior
          approval by the Connecticut Insurance Commissioner for any
          dividend distributions during a twelve-month period that are in
          excess of the greater of (i) ten percent of an insurer's surplus
          limited by unassigned funds-surplus, or (ii) net gain from
          operations (for life companies) or net income (for non-life
          companies), in each case measured as of the preceding December
          31.

                Under the legislation, statutory surplus would not be
          available in 1995 for dividends from The Travelers Insurance
          Group Inc. (the parent of TIC and Travelers Indemnity) to The
          Travelers Inc. without prior approval.

                The NAIC Insurance Regulatory Information System ("IRIS")
          ratios, discussed under "Combined Property-Casualty Product Line
          Information" on page 49, are part of the NAIC solvency
          surveillance process.  They consist of approximately 12 ratios
          with defined acceptable ranges.  They are used as an initial
          screening process for identifying companies that may be in need
          of special attention.  Companies that have several ratios that
          fall outside of the acceptable range are selected for closer
          review by the NAIC examiner team.  If the examiner determines
          that more attention may be warranted, one of several priority
          designations is assigned, and the insurance department of the
          state of domicile is then responsible for follow-up action.

                Occasionally one or more of the Company's subsidiaries has
          been "flagged" by the  IRIS ratios.  In all such instances, the
          regulators have been satisfied upon follow up that there is no
          solvency problem.  It is possible that similar events could occur
          this year, and management believes that the resolution would be
          the same.

          Reserving Methods

                Reserves are subject to ongoing review as additional
          experience and other data become available.  Increases or
          decreases to reserves for loss and loss adjustment expenses may
          be made, which would be reflected in operating results for the
          period in which such adjustments, if any, are made.












                                          39







<PAGE>






             Property-casualty loss reserves are established to account
          for the estimated ultimate costs of claims and claim adjustment
          expenses that have been reported but not yet settled, reopened
          claims, and claims which have been incurred but not reported. 
          Property-casualty personal and commercial lines actuaries use a
          number of generally accepted actuarial and statistical techniques
          to estimate ultimate liabilities.  These techniques generally
          rely upon analyses of historical development patterns of various
          types of accident year data.  Typically, these techniques utilize
          review of paid and incurred claim data and paid and incurred
          expense data, closed claim data, claim counts, claim costs and
          various types of pricing data.  Subsequent to reviewing a variety
          of tests, management selects what it believes is the best
          estimate of ultimate loss and loss adjustment expense for each
          line of business and market segment.  These estimates are refined
          over time as experience develops and further claims are reported
          and settled.  Any required adjustments to reserves are reflected
          in the results of the periods in which such adjustments are made. 
          Recognition is given to recoveries for reinsurance, salvage and
          subrogation.

                The ultimate incurred losses and the corresponding reserve
          levels carried for all accident years have an implicit provision
          for inflation and other factors that result in differences in
          levels of claim cost by accident year.  Ultimate claim values are
          based in part on analysis of historical trends in average closed
          claim costs and open claim costs.  Average closed claim costs
          reflect actual historic inflation trends while reported losses
          reflect historic trends based upon both paid losses and
          adjusters' estimates.  There is no precise method for evaluating
          the impact of inflation.  Claim settlements are also affected
          by many other factors including judicial decisions, the social
          environment and claims handling procedures.  Frequent reviews are
          therefore performed for the major property-casualty insurance
          coverages, particularly those related to third party claims. 
          Such third party claims often involve lengthy litigation or are
          otherwise settled only after a considerable passage of time and
          are particularly subject to the effects of judicial trends and
          changes in the social environment.

          Investments

                This section discusses the investment portfolios of the
          businesses described in the Company's insurance services
          segments.

                At December 31, 1994, the investment holdings of the
          companies included in the insurance services segments were
          composed primarily of fixed maturities.  At December 31, 1994,
          approximately 94.8% in total dollar amount of the fixed
          maturities portfolios of such companies had investment grade
          ratings.  The remaining investments are principally mortgage
          loans and real estate, discussed below, policy loans and other
          investments.  For additional information regarding these
          investment portfolios, see Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated
          Financial Statements and the discussion of Asset Quality in the
          Insurance Services Segment discussion in Item 7 of this Form 10-
          K, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
          and Results of Operations."  State insurance laws prescribe the
          types, quality and diversity of permissible investments for
          insurance companies.










                                          40







<PAGE>






             Consistent with the nature of related contract obligations, the
          invested assets attributable to group insurance and individual
          life, accident and health and financial services are primarily
          long-term fixed income investments such as corporate debt
          securities, mortgage and asset-backed securities, and mortgage
          loans.  A small portion of the invested assets related to these
          operations is in preferred and common stocks and real estate
          equity investments.  The Company did not originate a significant
          amount of new real estate business in 1994 and does not plan to
          do so in 1995.  The property-casualty fixed maturities portfolios
          (principally bonds) are shifted from time to time to respond to
          the changing economic outlook, insurance underwriting results and
          the resultant changes in the federal income tax position of the
          Company and its subsidiaries.

                Cash available for investment is principally derived from
          operating activities and investment income.  In addition, cash
          becomes available for investment from prepayment, maturity and
          sale of investments.  The underperforming mortgage loan and real
          estate portfolios have been significantly reduced since 1992. 
          See "Mortgage Loans and Real Estate" below.  Different investment
          policies have been developed for various lines of business based
          on the product requirements, the type and term of the liabilities
          associated with these products, regulatory requirements and tax
          treatment of the businesses in which each company is engaged.

             Mortgage Loans and Real Estate

                The Company is continuing its program to dispose of its
          real estate investments and some of its mortgage loans and to
          reinvest the proceeds to obtain current market yields.  At
          December 31, 1994, the mortgage loan and real estate portfolios
          of the businesses included in the Company's insurance services
          segments consisted of approximately $5.4 billion and $418
          million, respectively.  At December 31, 1993, the mortgage loan
          and real estate portfolios consisted of approximately $7.4
          billion and $1.0 billion, respectively.  See Item 7,
          "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
          Results of Operations," for additional information.

                The Company's accelerated liquidation strategy for
          foreclosed real estate and certain mortgage loans has mitigated the
          negative impact that these underperforming portfolios have had on
          investment income.  Management anticipates that approximately
          half of maturing commercial mortgage loans will be refinanced,
          restructured, sold or foreclosed.  Restructured loans are defined
          as loans the terms of which have been changed from the original
          contract generally by lowering the pay rate of interest in the
          early years after modification.  Loans which have pay rates of
          interest after modification that are equal to or above market
          rates are not included in the underperforming mortgage loan
          inventory.  At December 31, 1994 and 1993, approximately $511
          million and $1.3 billion, or 9% and 17%, respectively, of the
          mortgage loan portfolio was classified as underperforming. 
          Underperforming mortgage loans include delinquent loans, loans in
          the process of foreclosure and loans modified at interest rates
          below market.














                                          41







<PAGE>






             For information regarding the principal balance of mortgage
          loans at December 31, 1994 by contractual maturity, see Note 5 of
          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  Actual maturities
          will differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may
          have the right to prepay loans with or without prepayment
          premiums.  Unscheduled payments and sales of mortgage loans were
          $1.3 billion in 1994 and $1.0 billion in 1993.  The majority of
          these mortgages are seven-year term loans.

                Real estate management evaluates the portfolio on an
          ongoing basis, assessing the probabilities of loss with respect
          to a comprehensive series of future projections, including a host
          of variables relating to the borrower, the property, the term of
          the loan, the tenant composition, rental rates, other supply and
          demand factors, and overall economic conditions.

                The mortgage loan portfolio and real estate assets
          included in the investment portfolios as of December 31, 1994 and
          1993 are summarized by property type as set forth in the table
          below.  For information summarizing the geographic distribution
          of the mortgage loan portfolio and real estate assets, see Note 5
          of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                               (in millions)

          Property Type:          Mortgage Loans     Real Estate
          --------------          --------------     -----------
                                   1994    1993     1994    1993
                                   ----    ----     ----    ----
          Office                 $2,141  $2,875   $  224  $  641
          Apartment               1,112   1,711        9      66
          Hotel                     642     782       79      77
          Retail                    623     938       46     137
          Industrial                228     267       13      69
          Other                     108     116       33      41
                                  -----   -----    -----   -----
          Total commercial        4,854   6,689      404   1,031
          Agricultural              562     673       14      18
          Residential                 -       3        -       -
                                  -----   -----    -----   -----
           Total                 $5,416  $7,365   $  418  $1,049
                                  =====   =====    =====   =====


                 COMBINED PROPERTY-CASUALTY PRODUCT LINE INFORMATION

                The following discussion of the Company's combined
          property-casualty lines displays information for the insurance
          operations of Property-Casualty Commercial Lines and Property-
          Casualty Personal Lines on a combined basis, consolidating Gulf
          and old Travelers.  The operating results of old Travelers prior
          to the December 31, 1993 Merger are not included in the Company's
          Consolidated Financial Statements, other than for the equity in
          earnings relating to the 27% previously owned.






















                                          42







<PAGE>






          Combined Property-Casualty Reserves

                Property-casualty loss reserves are established to account
          for the estimated ultimate costs of claims and claim adjustment
          expenses for claims that have been reported but not yet settled,
          reopened claims and claims which have been incurred but not
          reported.  The process of estimating this liability is an
          imprecise science subject to a number of variables.  These
          variables are impacted by both internal and external events such
          as changes in claim handling procedures, economic inflation,
          judicial trends and legislative changes.  Many of these items are
          not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. 
          Additionally, there may be significant reporting lags between the
          occurrence of the insured event and its actual reporting to the
          insurer.  At December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, $5.9 billion, $5.5
          billion and $5.4 billion, respectively, of unpaid claim and claim
          adjustment expenses were provided for claims which had not yet
          been reported and for future development on reported claims. 
          Reserve estimates are continually refined in a regular ongoing
          process as experience develops and further claims are reported
          and settled.  Adjustments to reserves are reflected in the
          results of the periods in which such adjustments are made.

                Estimates for reported claims are established based on
          judgments by the claim department on a case by case basis.  These
          estimates are reviewed on a regular basis and revised as
          additional facts become known.

                Estimates for unreported claims, future reopened claims
          and development on reported claims are principally derived from
          actuarial analyses of historical patterns of claim development by
          accident year for each line of business and market segment. 
          Similarly, estimates of unpaid claim adjustment expenses are also
          principally derived from actuarial analyses of historical
          development patterns of the relationship of claim adjustment
          expenses to losses by accident year for each line of business and
          market segment.

                Refer to "Insurance Services - General -- Reserving
          Methods" at page 39 for a more complete discussion of reserving
          methodology.

                For a reconciliation of beginning and ending reserve
          liability balances for 1994, 1993 and 1992, see Note 11 of Notes
          to Consolidated Financial Statements.  The table on page 45
          shows the development of the estimated reserves for the 10 years
          prior to 1994, and includes information for old Travelers for
          periods prior to the Merger.

                See "Property & Casualty Insurance Services -- Property-
          Casualty Commercial Lines" for a discussion of environmental and
          asbestos claims and the Special Liability Group that deals with
          such claims.

                The differences between the reserves for losses and LAE
          shown in the table on page 45, which is prepared in accordance
          with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), and those
          reported in the annual statements filed with state insurance
          departments, which are prepared in accordance with statutory
          accounting practices ("SAP"), 











                                          43







<PAGE>






          were $(24) million, $32 million and $38 million for the years
          1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.  Those differences are
          attributable to a certain portion of the discounting of workers'
          compensation reserves impacting all three years.  The 1994 year
          was also affected by the gross-up of assets and liabilities for
          GAAP that were recorded on a net basis for SAP.

          Discounting

                The liability for losses for certain long-term disability
          payments under workers' compensation insurance has been
          discounted by $509 million at December 31, 1994 using a maximum
          interest rate of 5%.  The corresponding amounts of discount for
          calendar years 1993 and 1992 were $610 million and $623 million,
          respectively.  The 1994 decrease was due to more favorable
          experience trends anticipated on certain of these claims.























































                                          44




<PAGE>






<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                     Analysis of Combined Property-Casualty Loss and Loss Adjustment
                                      Expense Development (excluding accident and health business)
                                                              (in millions)

                                                                        Year Ended December 31,                             
                                      --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
                                           ----   ----   ----   ----   ----   ----    ----    ----    ----    ----    ----


<S>                                      <C>    <C>    <C>    <C>    <C>     <C>     <C>    <C>     <C>    <C>     <C>
       Reserves for Loss and LAE
         Originally Estimated            $4,817 $5,475 $6,658 $7,644 $8,116  $8,947  $9,239 $9,406  $9,872 $10,190 $10,251

       Cumulative Amount Paid as of
       ----------------------------

       One year later                     1,655  1,753  1,839  2,376  2,146   2,430   2,418  2,136   2,206   1,903
       Two years later                    2,559  2,748  3,261  3,631  3,632   3,992   3,932  3,584   3,556
       Three years later                  3,138  3,737  4,075  4,648  4,706   5,095   4,993  4,596
       Four years later                   3,795  4,258  4,760  5,402  5,487   5,878   5,755
       Five years later                   4,119  4,732  5,303  5,978  6,080   6,481
       Six years later                    4,425  5,130  5,735  6,443  6,557
       Seven years later                  4,717  5,459  6,109  6,831
       Eight years later                  4,951  5,784  6,445
       Nine years later                   5,128  6,086
       Ten years later                    5,352

       Reserves Reestimated as of
       --------------------------

       One year later                     4,937  5,863  6,799  7,858  8,292   9,099   9,358  9,446  10,014   9,941
       Two years later                    5,261  6,135  7,078  8,051  8,497   9,220   9,470  9,756  10,116
       Three years later                  5,460  6,376  7,292  8,254  8,698   9,408   9,898 10,042
       Four years later                   5,656  6,665  7,569  8,497  8,912   9,954  10,327
       Five years later                   5,856  6,922  7,765  8,746  9,489  10,425
       Six years later                    6,097  7,136  8,021  9,334  9,974
       Seven years later                  6,266  7,368  8,637  9,817
       Eight years later                  6,464  7,951  9,079
       Nine years later                   6,988  8,422
       Ten years later                    7,383
       Cumulative Deficiency (Redundancy) 2,566  2,947  2,421  2,173  1,858   1,478   1,088    636     244   (249)

       Gross liability - end of year                                                                       $13,805 $13,872
       Reinsurance recoverable                                                                               3,615   3,621
                                                                                                             -----   -----
       Net liability - end of year                                                                         $10,190 $10,251
                                                                                                            ======  ======

       Gross reestimated liability - latest                                                                $13,226
       Reestimated reinsurance recoverable 
         - latest                                                                                            3,285
                                                                                                             -----
       Net reestimated liability - latest                                                                  $ 9,941
                                                                                                            ======

       Gross cumulative deficiency (redundancy)                                                            $  (579)
                                                                                                            =======
</TABLE>









                                          45

<PAGE>


                The net reserve balance at December 31, 1993 reflected
          above includes a $225 million purchase accounting adjustment
          relating to the acquisition of old Travelers.  See Note 11 of
          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

             The data in the above table is presented in accordance with
          reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
          Care must be taken to avoid misinterpretation by those unfamiliar
          with such information or familiar with other data commonly
          reported by the insurance industry.  The above data is not
          "accident year" data, but rather a display of 1984-1994 year-end
          reserves and the subsequent changes in those reserves.

                For instance, the "cumulative deficiency or redundancy"
          shown above for each year represents the aggregate amount by
          which original estimates of reserves as of that year end have
          changed in subsequent years.  Accordingly, the cumulative 
          deficiency for a year relates only to reserves at that year end 
          and such amounts are not additive.  Expressed another way, if the 
          original reserves at the end of 1984 included $4 million for a loss 
          which is finally settled in 1994 for $5 million, the $1 million 
          deficiency (excess of actual settlement of $5 million over original 
          estimate of $4 million) would be included in the cumulative 
          deficiencies in each of the years 1984-1993 shown above.

                A substantial portion of the cumulative deficiencies in
          each of the years 1984-1992 arises from claims on policies
          written prior to the mid-1970s involving liability exposures such
          as asbestos.  In the post-1984 period, the Company has developed
          more stringent underwriting standards and policy exclusions and
          significantly contracted or terminated the writing of such risks.

                General conditions and trends that have affected the
          development of these liabilities in the past will not necessarily
          recur in the future; however, deficiencies will occur in the
          future due to the discount on the workers compensation reserves,
          therefore, it would be difficult to develop meaningful
          extrapolation of estimated future redundancies or deficiencies in
          loss reserves from the data in the table on page 45.

                A significant portion of National business is underwritten
          with retrospectively rated insurance policies in which the
          ultimate cost of insurance for a given year is dependent on the
          loss experience of the insured.  This analysis does not reflect
          amounts recoverable from insureds in the retrospective rating
          process.  Such recoverables tend to significantly mitigate the
          impact of the cumulative deficiencies shown above.  Retrospective
          rating is particularly significant for National business for the
          workers' compensation, general liability and commercial
          automobile liability coverages.  This mechanism affords the
          Company a significant measure of financial protection against
          adverse development on a large block ($3.2 billion) of net
          reserves.

          Combined Ratios

                Combined ratios are a measure of property-casualty
          underwriting results.  The combined ratio is the sum of (i) the
          ratio of losses, loss adjustment expenses and policyholder
          dividends to earned premiums, and (ii) the ratio of other
          underwriting expenses to written premiums.  When the combined
          ratio is under 100%, underwriting results are generally
          profitable; when this ratio is over 100%, underwriting results
          are generally unprofitable.  











                                          46







<PAGE>






          Underwriting results do not include investment income which makes
          a significant contribution to overall property-casualty
          profitability.  In preparing the following table, anticipated
          salvage and subrogation were deducted from losses.

                The following table and related discussions present
          information regarding the combined ratios of Travelers Indemnity,
          including Gulf and the other property-casualty insurance
          operations of old Travelers and its subsidiaries.


                                             
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                             Year Ended December 31,      
                                                                            -----------------------------
                                                                            1994        1993        1992
                                                                            ----        ----        ----
<S>                                                                      <C>        <C>          <C>
                Personal Lines
                 Automobile                                                 96.0%      101.6%      104.1%
                 Homeowners                                                124.2       131.9       246.6
                Total Personal Lines
                 Losses and loss adjustment expenses                        71.0        71.2        98.1
                 Other underwriting expenses                                29.4        33.2        33.7
                                                                         -------    --------     -------
                   Combined Personal Lines                                 100.4       104.4       131.8
                Commercial Lines
                 Workers' compensation                                     104.9        99.1       104.9
                 Multiple-peril                                            119.9       125.6       134.9
                 Automobile                                                102.6       106.8       116.0
                 Other liability                                           245.5       227.5       144.7
                 Property and other                                        107.3        93.9       144.0
                Total Commercial Lines
                 Losses and loss adjustment expenses                       100.0        98.2        94.4
                 Other underwriting expenses                                24.7        27.1        27.6
                                                                        --------    --------    --------
                   Combined before policyholder dividends                  124.7       125.3       122.0
                   Combined Commercial Lines                               123.0       126.6       122.3
                Total Personal and Commercial Lines
                 Losses and loss adjustment expenses                        88.7        88.2        95.7
                 Other underwriting expenses                                26.5        29.2        29.8
                                                                        --------    --------    --------
                   Combined before policyholder dividends                  115.2       117.4       125.5
                   Combined                                                114.2%      118.2%      125.7%
</TABLE>


                The improvement in the combined ratio for Personal Lines
          in 1994 compared to 1993 is primarily attributable to improved
          underwriting results due to lower operating expenses and to
          favorable loss reserve development in 1994 on prior years'
          business.  This improvement was partially offset by the increase
          in catastrophe losses, which after taxes and reinsurance
          increased to $26.4 million for 1994 from $13.5 million in 1993,
          due to the severe winter storms in the Northeast during the first
          quarter of 1994.
























                                          47

<PAGE>






             Personal Lines underwriting profitability is driven
          principally by results in the automobile line and is influenced
          by factors such as inflation in medical, legal and auto repair
          costs, accident frequencies and regulatory actions.  Results have
          improved in the automobile line due in part to programs
          implemented by Travelers Indemnity to be more selective in
          marketing and underwriting.

                In 1993 and 1994, Personal Lines purchased additional
          amounts of reinsurance to reduce its exposure to future
          catastrophe losses.  Homeowners results are heavily influenced by
          the cost of reinsurance, as well as the incidence of natural
          catastrophes.  Personal Lines' results in 1992 were adversely
          affected by Hurricane Andrew, which added 22.3 percentage points
          to the total Personal Lines combined ratio.  Excluding Hurricane
          Andrew, the total Personal Lines combined ratio in 1992 would
          have been 109.5%.

                Commercial Lines underwriting profitability has
          historically been cyclical, influenced by factors such as
          inflation levels, changes in the interpretation of the doctrines
          of tort liability, unemployment trends, legislative actions
          affecting workers' compensation benefit levels, crime rates,
          natural catastrophes and general business conditions.  The
          softening of market prices which began in 1988 has continued. 
          The combined ratio has been, and will continue to be, affected by
          the shift to fee-for-service products, which reduces premiums and
          losses while expenses remain in insurance results.

                During 1994, asbestos and environmental claims continued
          to negatively impact other liability lines.  The combined impact
          from these claims added 4.6 percentage points to the total 1994
          Commercial Lines combined ratio.  Asbestos claims incurred
          totaled $51 million in 1994, $229 million in 1993 and $61 million
          in 1992.  Environmental claims incurred were $49 million in 1994,
          $190 million in 1993 and $67 million in 1992.  In addition,
          purchase accounting adjustments amounting to $225 million for
          asbestos and environmental claims were included in incurred
          losses, for statutory purposes only, in 1994.  This adjustment
          increased the 1994 Commercial Lines combined ratio by an
          additional 10.5 percentage points.  In the multiple-peril and
          property lines, the 1992 combined ratios were severely impacted
          by Hurricane Andrew and other natural catastrophes.  Hurricane
          Andrew alone added 4.9 percentage points to the total Commercial
          Lines combined ratio.

                Travelers Indemnity has heavily invested in workers'
          compensation cost containment initiatives since 1989. 
          Investments in early intervention, managed care, systems
          technology and employer education have allowed Travelers
          Indemnity to outperform the industry's workers' compensation
          combined ratio results.  In addition, Travelers Indemnity's
          overall strategy of restricting growth in states with rate
          inadequacy, its strong shift towards large self-insured and loss
          responsive products, and its growth in service of assigned risk
          pools have all contributed to favorable combined ratio trends.

                The table on the next page and the related discussion set
          forth information regarding the premium to surplus ratios of
          Travelers Indemnity, including Gulf and the other property-
          casualty insurance operations of old Travelers and its
          subsidiaries.









                                          48







<PAGE>






<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                              Schedule of Premiums to Surplus Ratios (Statutory Basis)
                                      (Including Accident and Health Business)
                                                   (in millions)

                                                                          Year Ended December 31,     
                                                                   ------------------------------------
                                                                           1994       1993       1992
                                                                           ----       ----       ----
<S>                                                                   <C>         <C>        <C>
                A.  Net written premiums                              $   3,862   $  3,902   $   4,105
                B.  Capital and surplus                                   2,062      2,454       1,868
                    Ratio of premiums to capital and surplus
                      (A divided by B)                                     1.87       1.59        2.20
</TABLE>


                The ratio of net written premiums to capital and surplus
          is a key financial indicator of the overall strength of a
          property-casualty insurance company.  The usual range for this
          ratio, which is used as a benchmark by the IRIS of the National
          Association of Insurance Commissioners, is 3.00 to 1 or less. 
          The ratio deteriorated slightly in 1994 as a result of the impact
          of reserve increases for environmental claims, litigation and
          ceded reinsurance balances, partially offset by reductions in
          written premium volume.  The ratio improved in 1993 due to a
          modest decline in premium volume from the continuing trend toward
          self-insured service business in Commercial Lines, and due to a
          significant increase in capital and surplus, largely resulting
          from the assumption of old Travelers public debt by the Company.


                            CORPORATE AND OTHER OPERATIONS


                In addition to its four business segments, the Company's
          Corporate and Other segment consists of unallocated expenses and
          earnings primarily related to interest, corporate administration,
          and certain corporate investments.  This segment has also
          included the Company's 27% equity interest in old Travelers
          (1993), lines of business retained from the sale in 1993 of
          Voyager Group, Inc. and its affiliates ("Voyager") (1993 and
          1992), and the Company's interest in Fingerhut Companies, Inc.
          ("Fingerhut") (1992), a direct marketing business.  For
          additional information regarding the inclusion of Fingerhut in
          the Company's consolidated operating results, see Note 3 of Notes
          to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                In May 1993, the stock of Voyager was sold.  Voyager sold
          credit insurance on installment loans through independent
          consumer finance companies and furniture and appliance retailers.

                                  OTHER INFORMATION

          General Business Factors

                In the judgment of the Company, no material part of the
          business of the Company and its subsidiaries is dependent upon a
          single customer or group of customers, the loss of 















                                          49

<PAGE>






          any one of which would have a materially adverse effect on the
          Company, and no one customer or group of affiliated customers
          accounts for as much as 10% of the Company's consolidated
          revenues.

                At January 5, 1995, the Company had approximately 52,000
          full-time and 2,800 part-time employees.

          Source of Funds

                For a discussion of the Company's sources of funds and
          maturities of the long-term debt of the Company's subsidiaries,
          see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
          Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital
          Resources," and Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
          Statements.

          Taxation

                For a discussion of tax matters affecting the Company and
          its operations, see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis
          of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and Notes 2
          and 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

          Financial Information about Industry Segments

                For financial information regarding industry segments of
          the Company, see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
          Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and Note 4 of
          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

          MetraHealth

                Upon formation of MetraHealth, the joint venture created
          by the combination of the medical businesses of TIC and MetLife,
          the Company owned 50% of MetraHealth's common stock.  The
          Company's interest in MetraHealth will be accounted for on the
          equity method.  See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
          Statements.

                MetraHealth will provide group health insurance, health
          maintenance organizations, managed care and ancillary services
          throughout the United States, in Puerto Rico and in the U.S.
          Virgin Islands.  The range of services provided by these products
          includes programs to maintain health and wellness, as well as to
          promote patient education and to manage health care through
          networks of providers of medical/surgical, mental health and
          pharmaceutical services.  MetraHealth network products rely on
          contractual arrangements between it and providers of health care
          to deliver services to covered individuals at negotiated
          reimbursement levels as well as to  participate in utilization
          and quality management programs.  



















                                          50







<PAGE>






             As of December 31, 1994, the businesses acquired by
          MetraHealth included health maintenance organizations in 29
          network areas, with approximately 400,000 members; point-of-
          service operations in 72 network areas, with approximately 1.7
          million members; and preferred provider organizations in 90
          network areas, with approximately 2.8 million members.  Covered
          lives using the managed care networks and covered by indemnity
          products, in the aggregate at December 31, 1994, were
          approximately 11.3 million.  MetraHealth expects some decline in
          covered lives during 1995.

                In March 1995, MetraHealth acquired HealthSpring, Inc. for
          common stock of MetraHealth.  HealthSpring builds and manages
          primary care physician practices and serves approximately 32,000
          patients through seven sites in Pennsylvania, Ohio and Illinois. 
          This acquisition resulted in a reduction in the participation of
          the Company and MetLife in the MetraHealth venture to 48.25%
          each.

          Executive Officers of the Company

                The current executive officers of the Company are
          indicated on the following page.  Periods of offices held include
          offices with the Company's predecessor, CCC.  Ages are given as
          of March 10, 1995.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                             Officer
                    Name                          Age      Positions                                         Since  
                    ----                          ---      ---------                                         -------
<S>                                               <C>    <C>                                                 <C>
                     Sanford I. Weill             61     Chairman of the Board                                1986
                                                           and Chief Executive Officer*
                     Robert I. Lipp               56     Vice Chairman of the Board and                       1986
                                                           Group Chief Executive of the
                                                           Company; Chief Executive Officer of
                                                           The Travelers Insurance Group Inc.*
                     James Dimon                  38     President, Chief Operating Officer and               1986
                                                           Chief Financial Officer of the Company; 
                                                           Chief Operating Officer of SB Holdings*
                     Joseph Plumeri, II           51     Vice Chairman and Group Chief Executive              1994
                                                           of PFS
                     Robert F. Greenhill          58     Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of              1993
                                                           SB Holdings*
                     Michael A. Carpenter         47     Executive Vice President                             1995
                     Edwin M. Cooperman           51     Executive Vice President                             1991
                     Irwin R. Ettinger            56     Senior Vice President, and Chief                     1987
                                                           Accounting Officer
                     Charles O. Prince, III       45     Senior Vice President, General Counsel               1986
                                                           and Secretary
                     Samuel V. Miller, Jr.        49     Senior Vice President                                1994
</TABLE>
          ______________________________
          *   Member of the Office of the Chairman












                                          51







<PAGE>






             Mr. Weill has been a director of the Company since 1986.  He
          has been Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the
          Company and its predecessor, CCC, since 1986; he was also its
          President from 1986 until 1991.  He was President of American
          Express Company from 1983 to 1985; Chairman of the Board and
          Chief Executive Officer of American Express Insurance Services,
          Inc. from 1984 to 1985; Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
          Officer, or a principal executive officer, of Shearson Lehman
          Brothers Inc. from 1965 to 1984; Chairman of the Board of
          Shearson Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. from 1984 to 1985; and a
          founding partner of Shearson's predecessor partnership from 1960
          to 1965.  He is Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Carnegie
          Hall, and a director of the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra.  Mr.
          Weill is a member of the Board of Governors of New York Hospital
          and is Vice Chairman of the Board of Overseers of Cornell
          University Medical Center and a member of the Joint Board of New
          York Hospital--Cornell University Medical College.  He is a member
          of Cornell University's Johnson Graduate School of Management
          Advisory Board and a Board of Trustees Fellow.  He has served as
          Chairman of the Joint Mayoral/City Council Commission on Early
          Child and Child Care Programs during the Dinkins Administration.

                Mr. Lipp has been a director of the Company since 1991,
          and is a Vice Chairman and Group Chief Executive of the Company. 
          In November 1993, he was named a member of the newly-created
          Office of the Chairman of the Company.  Upon completion of the
          merger with old Travelers on December 31, 1993, Mr. Lipp was
          named Chief Executive Officer of The Travelers Insurance Group
          Inc.  From 1991 to 1993, he was Chairman and Chief Executive
          Officer of CCC.  From April 1986 through September 1991, he was
          an Executive Vice President of the Company and its corporate
          predecessor.  Prior to joining the Company in 1986, he was a
          President and a director of Chemical New York Corporation and
          Chemical Bank where he held senior executive positions for more
          than five years prior thereto.  Mr. Lipp is a director of The New
          York City Ballet.

                Mr. Dimon has been a director of the Company since
          September 1991.  He is President, Chief Operating Officer and
          Chief Financial Officer of the Company.  In November 1993, he was
          named a member of the newly-created Office of the Chairman of the
          Company.  He was, from May 1988 to September 1991, Executive Vice
          President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, and was
          Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer
          of SBI from 1990 to 1991.  He is also a director, the Chief
          Operating Officer and a member of the Executive Committee of SBI
          and SB Holdings.  From 1986 to 1988, Mr. Dimon was Senior Vice
          President and Chief Financial Officer of CCC, the Company's
          predecessor.  From 1982 to 1985, he was a Vice President of
          American Express Company and Assistant to the President, Sanford
          I. Weill.  Mr. Dimon is a trustee of New York University Medical
          Center and Chairman of the Board of the New York Academy of
          Finance.

                Mr. Plumeri became a Vice Chairman of the Company in
          August 1994 and has been Group Chief Executive responsible for
          the operations of the PFS group of companies since October 1994. 
          He joined the Company in August 1993, serving as President of SBI













                                          52







<PAGE>






          from that time through July 1994.  Mr. Plumeri had worked for
          Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. or its predecessors for over 25
          years, in various positions of increasing responsibility, until
          SBI acquired certain businesses from SLB.  At that time, Mr.
          Plumeri was a Managing Partner of SLB, and from 1990 until
          September 1992 he served as President of SLB's Private Client
          Group.

                Mr. Greenhill became a director of the Company in August
          1993.  In November 1993, he was named a member of the newly-
          created Office of the Chairman of the Company.  He became
          Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of SBI in June 1993.  He
          also serves as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of SB
          Holdings.  Mr. Greenhill was President of Morgan Stanley Group,
          Inc. from January 1991 to June 1993.  Mr. Greenhill joined Morgan
          Stanley in 1962 and became a Partner in 1970.  In 1972, he
          directed Morgan Stanley's newly-formed Mergers and Acquisitions
          Department.  In 1980, Mr. Greenhill was named director of Morgan
          Stanley's Investment Banking Division with responsibility for
          domestic and international corporate finance, mergers and
          acquisitions, merchant banking, capital market services and real
          estate.  In 1980, he also became a member of Morgan Stanley's
          Management Committee which was the firm's policy-making group. 
          He became a Vice Chairman of Morgan Stanley Group, Inc. in
          January 1989.  Mr. Greenhill is a trustee of the Whitney Museum
          of American Art, a trustee of the American Enterprise Institute
          for Public Policy Research and a member of the International
          Advisory Board of the British-American Chamber of Commerce.

                Mr. Carpenter joined the Company in January 1995 as
          Executive Vice President, and also serves as Chairman and Chief
          Executive Officer of Travelers Life and Annuity Company.  From
          January 1989 to June 1994, Mr. Carpenter was Chairman of the
          Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Kidder, Peabody
          Group, Inc., an investment banking and brokerage company that was
          a wholly owned subsidiary of General Electric Company.  Prior
          thereto, he served as Executive Vice President of General
          Electric Capital Corporation and Vice President of General
          Electric Company.

                Mr. Cooperman joined the Company in November 1991.  Prior
          thereto, he was Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer of
          American Express Company Travel Related Services.  He joined
          American Express in 1972 and assumed positions of increasing
          responsibility during his tenure there. 

                Mr. Ettinger, prior to joining CCC in October 1987, was
          Partner in charge of the Tax Department of Arthur Young and
          Company's New York offices for more than five years prior
          thereto. 

                Mr. Miller has been a Senior Vice President of the Company
          since March 1994, and also currently serves as Chairman of NBL
          and the Canadian operations of PFS.  From March 1994 until
          October 1994, he was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the
          PFS group of companies.  For ten years prior to joining the
          Company, Mr. Miller was President and Chief Executive Officer of
          AMEX Life Assurance Company, a division of American 













                                          53







<PAGE>






          Express Company.  He is a member of the board of directors of the
          Health Insurance Association of America.

                Mr. Prince has been General Counsel of the Company or its
          predecessor since 1983, and has been a Senior Vice President
          since 1986.


                             GLOSSARY OF INSURANCE TERMS


                Annuity -- A contract that pays a periodic income benefit
          for the life of a person (the annuitant), the lives of two or
          more persons or for a specified period of time.

                Assumption Reinsurance -- A transaction whereby the ceding
          company transfers its entire obligation under the policy to the
          reinsurer, who becomes directly liable to the policyholder in all
          respects, including collecting premiums and paying benefits.  See
          "Reinsurance."

                Benefits Under Administration, Including Fees -- Estimates
          of amounts that fee-based Managed Care and Employee Benefits
          customers would have been charged if their group health plans had
          been fully insured.

                Catastrophe -- A severe loss, usually involving many risks
          such as conflagration, earthquake, windstorm, explosion and other
          similar events.

                Ceded Reinsurance -- Risks transferred to another company
          as reinsurance. See "Reinsurance."

                Claim -- Request by an insured for indemnification by an
          insurance company for loss incurred from an insured peril.

                Combined Ratio -- A measure of property-casualty
          underwriting results. The combined ratio is the sum of (a) Loss
          Ratio -- the ratio of losses, loss adjustment expenses and, where
          applicable, policyholder dividends to earned premiums, and (b)
          Expense Ratio -- the ratio of other underwriting expenses to
          written premiums.  When the combined ratio is under 100%,
          underwriting results are generally profitable; when the ratio is
          over 100%, underwriting results are generally unprofitable.
          Underwriting results do not include investment income, which may
          make a significant contribution to overall profitability.

                Contractholder Funds -- Receipts from the issuance of
          universal life, pension investment and certain individual annuity
          contracts. Such receipts are considered deposits on investment
          contracts that do not have substantial mortality or morbidity
          risks.

                Deductible -- The amount of loss that an insured retains.

















                                          54







<PAGE>






                Deferred Acquisition Costs -- Commissions and other selling
          expenses that vary with and are directly related to the
          production of business. These acquisition costs are deferred and
          amortized to achieve a matching of revenues and expenses when
          reported in financial statements prepared in conformity with
          GAAP.

                Defined Contribution Plans -- Type of pension plan in which
          the contribution rate is certain but the retirement benefit is
          variable.

                Deposits and Other Considerations -- Consist of cash
          deposits and charges for mortality risk and expenses associated
          with universal life insurance, annuities and group pensions.

                Excess Loss Coverage -- Coverage which indemnifies the
          person for that portion of the loss (arising out of a loss
          occurrence) which is in excess of the deductible.

                Expense Ratio -- See "Combined Ratio."

                Experience Rated Contracts -- Insurance contracts in which
          future rates and/or commissions are compiled from past
          experience, that is, total premiums earned and losses incurred.
          This can be applied by certain risk classifications or to an
          individual risk.

                Fiduciary Accounts -- Accounts held on behalf of others.

                General Account -- All an insurer's assets other than those
          allocated to separate accounts.

                Guaranteed Cost Insurance -- Premium charged on a
          prospective basis which may be fixed or adjustable on a specified
          rating basis but never on the basis of loss experience in the
          period of coverage.

                Guaranteed Investment Contracts (GICs) -- Group contracts
          sold to pension plans, profit sharing plans and funding
          agreements that guarantee a stated interest rate for a specified
          period of time.

                Guaranty Fund -- State-regulated mechanism which is
          financed by assessing insurers doing business in those states.
          Should insolvencies occur, these funds are available to meet some
          or all of the obligations to policyholders.

                Incurred But Not Reported Losses (IBNR) -- Losses that have
          occurred but have not been reported.

                Indemnity Reinsurance -- A transaction whereby the
          reinsurer agrees to indemnify the ceding company against all or
          part of the loss that the latter may sustain under the 


















                                          55







<PAGE>






          policies it issued that are being reinsured.  The ceding company
          remains primarily liable as the direct insurer on all risks
          ceded.  See "Reinsurance."

                Insurance -- Mechanism for contractually shifting burdens
          of a number of risks by pooling them.

                Involuntary Business (residual market) -- Risks that are
          not insurable in the voluntary market due to either the level of
          risk or pricing.  Residual markets are largest for lines in which
          state governments or other agencies mandate coverage such as
          workers' compensation. Generally states provide residual market
          plans that are designed to allocate the underwriting experience
          for these coverages in proportion to a given carrier's market
          share.

                Life Contingencies -- Contingencies affecting the duration
          of life of an individual or a group of individuals.

                Long-Term Care -- Coverage for extended stays in a nursing
          home or home health services.

                Loss Adjustment Expense (LAE) -- Expenses paid in
          connection with settling claims.

                Loss Ratios -- See "Combined Ratio."

                Loss Reserves -- Liabilities established by insurers to
          reflect the estimated cost of claims payments that the insurer
          will ultimately be required to pay in the future in respect of
          losses occurring on or prior to the balance sheet date.

                Losses Under Administration -- Projected loss and loss
          adjustment expense payments to be made for the current policy
          year on behalf of clients who self-insure and purchase claim
          adjustment services.

                Market Reinsurance -- Ceded reinsurance purchased from
          reinsurance companies in the competitive marketplace.

                Morbidity -- The rate at which people become diseased,
          mentally or physically, or physically impaired.

                Mortality -- The rate at which people die.

                Policy Loan -- A loan made by an insurance company to a
          policyholder on the security of the cash value of the policy.
          Policy loans offset benefits payable to policyholders.























                                          56







<PAGE>






                Pool -- Syndicate or association of insurance companies
          organized to underwrite a particular risk, usually with high
          limits of exposure. Each member shares in premiums, losses and
          expenses, according to a predetermined agreement.

                Reinsurance -- The acceptance by one or more insurers,
          called reinsurers, of all or a portion of the risk underwritten
          by another insurer (the ceding company) who has directly written
          the coverage. However, the legal rights of the insured generally
          are not affected by the reinsurance transaction.

                Reinsurance Pools and Associations -- Mechanisms
          established to aggregate insurance, and then distribute results
          to participants in the mechanism. The pool or association
          performs rating, loss adjustment and engineering services for
          certain exposures. In some cases, they are established to absorb
          business that will not be written voluntarily by insurers.

                Residual Market -- See "Involuntary Business."

                Retention -- The amount of exposure an insurance company
          retains on any one risk or group of risks.

                Retrospective Rating -- A plan or method which permits
          adjustment of the final premium or commission on the basis of the
          actual loss experience, subject to certain minimum and maximum
          limits.

                Salvage -- Amount received by an insurer from the sale of
          property (usually damaged) on which the insurer has paid a total
          loss to the insured. For example, when an insurer has paid the
          insured the actual cash value of an automobile damaged (usually
          extensively) by collision, then the insurer takes title to and
          sells the damaged automobile for its own account. Salvage is
          applied by insurance companies to reduce the amount of loss paid.

                Self-Insured Retentions -- That portion of the risk
          retained by a person for its own account. Generally, that person
          retains an amount of first loss for its own account and purchases
          an excess of loss cover to protect itself for losses above its
          retention.

                Separate Accounts -- Funds for which investment income and
          investment gains and losses accrue directly to, and investment
          risk is borne by, the contractholders. The assets of these
          separate accounts are legally segregated and not subject to
          claims that arise out of any other business of the insurance
          company.

                Servicing Carrier -- An insurance company that provides
          various services including policy issuance, claims adjusting and
          customer service for insureds in a reinsurance pool, for a fee.



















                                          57







<PAGE>






                Statutory Accounting Practices -- Those accounting
          practices prescribed or permitted by the National Association of
          Insurance Commissioners or an insurer's domiciliary state
          insurance regulator for purposes of financial reporting to
          regulators.

                Statutory Capital and Surplus -- The excess of statutory
          admitted assets over statutory liabilities as shown on an
          insurer's statutory financial statements.

                Structured Settlements -- Periodic payments to an injured
          person or survivor for a determined number of years or for life,
          typically in settlement of a claim under a liability policy.

                Subrogation -- The statutory or legal right of an insurer
          to recover from a third party who is wholly or partially
          responsible for a loss paid by the insurer under the terms of a
          policy. For example, when an insurer has paid the insured for
          loss sustained to his or her automobile as a result of a
          collision, the insurer may collect through the process of
          subrogation from the person whose automobile caused the damage.
          Subrogation recoveries are treated as reductions of the losses
          paid.

                Surrender Value -- The amount of money, usually the legal
          reserve under the policy, less sometimes a surrender charge,
          which an insurance company will pay to a policyholder who cancels
          a policy. This value may be used as collateral for a loan.

                Trading Portfolio -- Fixed maturity investments that are
          likely to be sold prior to maturity and are therefore carried at
          current market value. Unrealized gains and losses on these
          investments are reflected in stockholders' equity.

                Underwriting --The assumption of risk for designated loss
          or damage in consideration of receiving a premium. Also includes
          the process of examining, accepting or rejecting insurance risks,
          and determining the proper premium.

          Item 2.   PROPERTIES.

                The Company's executive offices are located in New York
          City.  Offices and other properties used by the Company's
          subsidiaries are located throughout the United States.  A few
          subsidiaries have offices located in foreign countries.  Most
          office locations and other properties are leased on terms and for
          durations which are reflective of commercial standards in the
          communities where such offices and other properties are located.

                At December 31, 1994, leasehold interests of Travelers
          Insurance included a total of approximately 5,700,000 square feet
          of office space at about 285 locations throughout the United
          States under both operating and capital leases.  TIC owns
          buildings containing approximately 1,570,000 square feet of
          office space located in Hartford, Connecticut and vicinity,
          serving as the home office for TIC and Travelers Indemnity.  TIC
          also owns a building in Norcross, Georgia that is occupied by its
          information systems department.













                                          58







<PAGE>






                SBI owns two office buildings in New York City, which
          total approximately 627,000 square feet.  Most of SBI's other
          offices are located in leased premises, the leases for which
          expire at various times.

                SBI leases two buildings, including an office building
          located at 388 Greenwich Street, with a total of approximately 2.3 
          million square feet, and plans to consolidate its executive offices
          and certain other New York City operations at these locations.  The
          buildings were acquired from Shearson Lehman Brothers by an
          independent third party and are leased by SBI through 1999.  SBI
          has a purchase option with respect to these properties.

                A few other offices and certain warehouse space are owned,
          none of which is material to the Company's financial condition or
          operations.  The Company is the lessee under the lease on old
          Primerica's former headquarters in Greenwich, Connecticut.  The
          lease obligation on half of this property ended in December 1991;
          the remainder of the lease expires in December 1996.  The Company
          believes its properties are adequate and suitable for its
          business as presently conducted and are adequately maintained. 
          For further information concerning leases, see Note 18 of Notes
          to Consolidated Financial Statements.

          Item 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

                This section describes the major pending legal
          proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to
          the business, to which the Company or its subsidiaries is a party
          or of which any of their property is subject.  Certain additional
          matters may be described in the periodic reports filed under the
          Exchange Act by certain subsidiaries of the Company.

          Shareholder Litigation

                For information concerning purported class actions
          challenging certain aspects of the Merger, see the descriptions
          that appear in the last paragraph on page 2 and the first two
          paragraphs on page 3 of the Company's filing on Form 8-K dated
          September 23, 1993, the third paragraph on page 26 of the
          Company's filing on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
          1993, and the third paragraph on page 2 of the Company's filing
          on Form 8-K dated March 1, 1994, which descriptions are
          incorporated by reference herein.  A copy of the pertinent
          paragraphs of such filings is included as an exhibit to this Form
          10-K.  The trial court granted the defendants' motion to dismiss
          the case in January 1995.

                For information concerning purported class actions
          challenging certain aspects of the 1988 merger of Primerica
          Corporation, a New Jersey corporation ("old Primerica") into
          Primerica Holdings, see the description contained in the third
          and fourth paragraphs of page 30 of the Company's filing on Form
          10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989, which description is
          incorporated by reference herein.  A copy of the pertinent
          paragraphs of such filing is included as an exhibit to this Form
          10-K.  Subsequent to that filing, other shareholder class actions
          relating to the same subject were commenced in Federal, New 













                                          59







<PAGE>






          Jersey state, New York state and Connecticut state courts.  All
          of these subsequent actions are currently stayed, and the Company
          has reached an agreement to settle these actions, subject to
          approval by the court.

          Other Litigation and Legal Proceedings 

             Smith Barney

                For information concerning purported class actions and an
          individual action against SBI and others in connection with
          Worlds of Wonder common stock and convertible debentures, see the
          description that appears in the first, second and third
          paragraphs of page 31 of the Company's filing on Form 10-K for
          the year ended December 31, 1989, and the description that
          appears in the first paragraph of page 30 of the Company's filing
          on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990, which
          descriptions are incorporated by reference herein.  A copy of the
          pertinent paragraphs of such filings is included as an exhibit to
          this Form 10-K.  The individual action was dismissed in May 1992. 
          In January 1993, summary judgment was granted for SBI and the
          other defendants in the class action.  The judgment was affirmed
          by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in September
          1994.  Plaintiffs have requested a rehearing en banc.

                For information concerning several purported class action
          lawsuits filed against SBI in connection with three funds managed
          by Hyperion Capital Management Inc., see the description that
          appears in the fourth paragraph of page 26 of the Company's
          filing on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1993,
          which description is incorporated by reference herein.  A copy of
          the pertinent paragraph of such filing is included as an exhibit
          to this Form 10-K.  An amended consolidated complaint with
          respect to these actions was filed in March 1994, and again in
          November 1994, and the consolidated action is entitled In re:
          Hyperion Securities Litigation.  SBI has moved to dismiss the
          claims.

             Old Primerica

                For information concerning matters involving the Company
          and certain of its subsidiaries relating to federal, state or
          local regulations or laws regulating the discharge of materials
          into the environment, see the description that appears in the
          first full paragraph of page 26 of the Company's filing on Form
          10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992, which description is
          incorporated by reference herein.  A copy of the pertinent
          paragraph of such filing is included as an exhibit to this Form
          10-K.  The Company has entered into a consent decrees with
          respect to both groundwater and soil remediation.  The Company
          believes that insurance maintained by or on behalf of the
          Company, old Primerica or certain affiliates, indemnities in
          favor of the Company or such subsidiaries and contributions from
          other potentially responsible parties will be available to
          mitigate the financial exposure of the Company and its
          subsidiaries in these matters.  The Company is using a variety of
          approaches to recover from each of these sources, including
          pursuing litigation where appropriate relating to such matters. 
          Although there can be no assurance, the Company does 












                                          60







<PAGE>






          not believe that the ultimate resolution of these matters will
          have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial
          condition of the Company and its subsidiaries.

             Old Travelers

                For information concerning a case brought by the federal
          government against old Travelers involving benefit claims for
          Medicare handled by old Travelers, see the description that
          appears in the fourth paragraph of page 2 of the Company's filing
          on Form 8-K, dated March 1, 1994, which description is
          incorporated by reference herein.  A copy of the pertinent
          paragraph of such filing is included as an exhibit to this Form
          10-K.

                For information concerning a case filed by certain
          subsidiaries of old Travelers involving certain reinsurance
          contracts with Lloyd's of London, see the description that
          appears in the paragraph that begins on page 2 and ends on page 3
          of the Company's filing on Form 8-K, dated March 1, 1994, which
          description is incorporated by reference herein.  A copy of the
          pertinent paragraph of such filing is included as an exhibit to
          this Form 10-K.

                Certain of the subsidiaries that the Company acquired in
          the Merger are involved in defending against claims asserting
          alleged injuries and damages from asbestos and other hazardous
          and toxic substances.  For additional information with respect to
          these claims, reference is made to the discussion of asbestos and
          environmental claims contained on pages 25 through 28 of this
          Form 10-K.

             Other

                For information concerning purported class actions and
          other actions relating to service fee charges and premium
          calculations on certain workers compensation insurance sold by
          subsidiaries of the Company, see the description that appears in
          the second paragraph of page 29 of the Company's filing on Form
          10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1994, which description
          is incorporated by reference herein.  A copy of the pertinent
          paragraph of such filing is included as an exhibit to this Form
          10-K.  In one of these cases, North Carolina Steel, Inc. v.
          National Council on Compensation Insurance, Inc., et al, the
          North Carolina trial court granted the Company's motion to
          dismiss in February 1995.

                The Company and various subsidiaries have also been named
          as defendants in various matters incident to and typical of the
          businesses in which they are engaged.  These include numerous
          civil actions, arbitration proceedings and other matters in which
          SBI and R-H have been named, arising in the normal course of
          business out of activities as a broker and dealer in securities,
          as an underwriter, as an investment banker or otherwise.  In the
          opinion of the Company's management, none of these actions is
          expected to have a material adverse effect on the consolidated
          financial condition of the Company and its subsidiaries.














                                          61







<PAGE>






          Item 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

                Not applicable.

                                       PART II
                                       -------


          Item 5.   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
                STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

                The Company's common stock is listed on the NYSE and the
          Pacific Stock Exchange under the symbol "TRV."  It is also listed
          on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the symbol "TVG."  The high
          and low sale prices, as reported on the consolidated transaction
          reporting system, for the common stock of the Company for the
          periods indicated, and the dividends per share, are set forth
          below.  All amounts have been adjusted to give retroactive effect
          to the two stock splits effected in 1993 on the Company's common
          stock.


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                 1993                                       1994                       1995
                              --------------------------------------    ---------------------------------------        ----
                                 1st Q     2nd Q     3rd Q     4th Q        1st Q      2nd Q     3rd Q      4th Q     1st Q*
                                 -----     -----     -----     -----        -----      -----     -----      -----     -----
<S>                           <C>       <C>        <C>      <C>           <C>       <C>        <C>       <C>        <C>
           Common Stock
           Price

           High               $37.6875  $39.6563   $49.5000 $48.6250      $43.1250  $37.1250   $37.1250  $35.0000   $39.8750
           Low                $24.0625  $31.2188   $37.2188 $37.6250      $34.3750  $31.3125   $31.0000  $30.3750   $32.3750

           Dividends per
           Share of
           Common Stock          $.120     $.120     $.125      $.125        $.125      $.150     $.150      $.150    $.200
</TABLE>
       _______________________________
       *  Through February 28, 1995


                At February 28, 1995, the Company had approximately 61,000
          common stockholders of record.  This figure does not represent
          the actual number of beneficial owners of common stock because
          shares are frequently held in "street name" by securities dealers
          and others for the benefit of individual owners who may vote the
          shares.

                For information on dividend restrictions in certain long-
          term loan and credit agreements of the Company and its
          subsidiaries, as well as restrictions on the ability of certain
          of the Company's subsidiaries  to transfer funds to the Company
          in the form of cash dividends or otherwise, see Item 7,
          "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
          Results of Operations."





















                                          62


<PAGE>







          Item 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

                See "Five-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data" on page
          29 of the Company's 1994 Annual Report to Stockholders (the "1994
          Annual Report"), included as part of Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K
          and incorporated herein by reference.

          Item 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
                 CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

                 See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
          Condition and Results of Operations" beginning on page 30 of the
          1994 Annual Report, included as part of Exhibit 13 to this Form
          10-K and incorporated herein by reference.

          Item 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

                 See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and
          Schedules on page F-1 hereof.  There is also incorporated by
          reference herein in response to this Item the material under the
          caption "Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited)" on page 67 of the
          1994 Annual Report, which material is included as part of Exhibit
          13 to this Form 10-K.

                 The preacquisition consolidated balance sheets of The
          Travelers Corporation and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 1993
          and 1992, and the related consolidated statements of operations
          and retained earnings and cash flows for each of the three years
          in the period ended December 31, 1993, together with the notes
          thereto and the related report of Independent Accountants, are
          included as Exhibit 99.01 to this Form 10-K and are incorporated
          herein by reference.

          Item 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
                 ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

                 None.


                                       PART III
                                       --------


          Item 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

                 For information on the directors of the Company, see the
          material under the caption "Election of Directors," in the
          definitive Proxy Statement for the Company's Annual Meeting of
          Stockholders to be held on April 26, 1995, filed with the
          Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Proxy Statement"),
          incorporated herein by reference.  For information on 




















                                          63







<PAGE>






          executive officers, see Item 1, "Business -- Other Information --
          Executive Officers of the Company" herein.

          Item 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

                 See the material under the caption "Executive
          Compensation" of the Proxy Statement, incorporated herein by
          reference.

          Item 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
                 MANAGEMENT.

                 See the material under the captions "Voting Rights" and
          "Security Ownership of Management" of the Proxy Statement,
          incorporated herein by reference.

          Item 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

                 See the material under the captions "Election of
          Directors" and "Executive Compensation" of the Proxy Statement,
          incorporated herein by reference.


                                       PART IV
                                       -------


          Item 14.   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS
                     ON FORM 8-K

                 (a)    Documents filed as a part of the report:

                     (1)    Financial Statements.  See Index to
                            Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
                            on page F-1 hereof.  Also filed as a part of
                            this report are the preacquisition consolidated
                            balance sheets of The Travelers Corporation and
                            Subsidiaries as of December 31, 1993 and 1992,
                            and the related consolidated statements of
                            operations and retained earnings and cash flows
                            for each of the three years in the period ended
                            December 31, 1993, together with the notes
                            thereto and the related report of Independent
                            Accountants.  See Exhibit 99.01.

                     (2)    Financial Statement Schedules.  See Index to
                            Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
                            on page F-1 hereof.

                     (3)    Exhibits:

                        See Exhibit Index. 




















                                          64







<PAGE>






                 (b)    Reports on Form 8-K: 

                     No reports on Form 8-K have been filed by the Company
                     during the last quarter of the period covered by this
                     report.
























































                                         65


<PAGE>








                               EXHIBIT INDEX
                               -------------

 Exhibit                                                    Filing
 Number   Description of Exhibit                            Method
 ------   ----------------------                            ------

 3.01     Restated Certificate of Incorporation of The
          Travelers Inc. (the "Company") and
          Certificate of Designation of Cumulative
          Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock, Series Y,
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.01 to
          the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
          for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1994
          (File No. 1-9924) (the "Company's March 31,
          1994 10-Q")

 3.02     By-Laws of the Company as amended through
          April 27, 1994, incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 3.02 to the Company's March 31, 1994
          10-Q. 
 10.01*   Employment Protection Agreement, dated as of
          December 31, 1987, between the Company (as
          successor to Commercial Credit Company
          ("CCC")) and Sanford I. Weill, incorporated
          by reference to Exhibit 10.03 to CCC's
          Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
          year ended December 31, 1987 (File No. 1-
          6594).

 10.02.1* Stock Option Plan of the Company, as amended
          through April 26, 1989, incorporated by
          reference to Annex A to the prospectus
          contained in the Company's Registration
          Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-29711).
 10.02.2* Amendment to the Company's Stock Option
          Plan, dated October 23, 1991, incorporated
          by reference to Exhibit 10.02.2 to the
          Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
          fiscal year ended December 31, 1991 (File
          No. 1-9924) (the "Company's 1991 10-K").

 10.02.3* Amendments to the Company's Stock Option
          Plan, approved by the Company's stockholders
          on April 22, 1992, incorporated by reference
          to Exhibit 10.02.3 to the Company's Annual
          Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
          ended December 31, 1992 (File No.1-9924)
          (the "Company's 1992 10-K").

 10.02.4* Amendment to the Company's Stock Option
          Plan, dated July 22, 1992, incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.02.4 to the
          Company's 1992 10-K.
 10.02.5* Amendment No. 11 to the Company's Stock
          Option Plan, incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 10.02.5 to the Company's Annual
          Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
          ended December 31, 1993 (File No. 1-9924)
          (the "Company's 1993 10-K").


                                         66


<PAGE>




 
 Exhibit                                                    Filing
 Number   Description of Exhibit                            Method
 ------   ----------------------                            ------

 10.02.6* Amendment No. 12 to the Company's Stock
          Option Plan, incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 10.02.6 to the Company's 1993 10-K.

 10.03*   Retirement Benefit Equalization Plan of the
          Company (as successor to Primerica Holdings,
          Inc.), as amended, incorporated by reference
          to Exhibit 10.03 to the Company's 1993 10-K.
 10.04*   Letter Agreement between Joseph A. Califano,
          Jr. and the Company, dated December 14,
          1988, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
          10.21.1 to the Company's Annual Report on
          Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
          31, 1988 (File No. 1-9924) (the "Company's
          1988 10-K").

 10.05.1* The Company's Deferred Compensation Plan for
          Directors, incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 10.21.2 to the Company's 1988 10-K.
 10.05.2* Amendment to the Company's Deferred
          Compensation Plan for Directors, dated July
          22, 1992, incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 10.06.2 of the Company's 1992 10-K.

 10.06.1* Supplemental Retirement Plan of the Company,
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.23
          to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
          for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1990
          (File No. 1-9924) (the "Company's 1990 10-
          K").

 10.06.2* Amendment to the Company's Supplemental
          Retirement Plan, incorporated by reference
          to Exhibit 10.06.2 to the Company's 1993 10-
          K.
 10.07*   Long-Term Incentive Plan of the Company, as
          amended, incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 10.08 to the Company's 1992 10-K.

 10.08*   Capital Accumulation Plan of the Company          Electronic
          (the "CAP Plan"), as amended to May 16,
          1994.
 10.09*   Agreement dated December 21, 1993 between
          the Company and Edward H. Budd, incorporated
          by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the
          Company's 1993 10-K.



                                         67

<PAGE>




 
 Exhibit                                                    Filing
 Number   Description of Exhibit                            Method
 ------   ----------------------                            ------

 10.10    Restated Stockholder Rights and Support
          Agreement dated as of November 1, 1989 by
          and among the Company and Arthur L. 
          Williams, Jr., Angela H. Williams, A.L.
          Williams & Associates, Inc. and The A.L.
          Williams & Associates, Inc. Pension and
          Profit Sharing Plan, incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.13 to the Company's
          1990 10-K.

 10.11    Amended and Restated Exclusive Marketing
          Agreement dated as of November 1, 1989 by
          and among the Company, A.L. Williams &
          Associates, Inc. and Arthur L. Williams,
          Jr., incorporated by reference to Exhibit
          10.14 to the Company's 1990 10-K.
 10.12    Restated Second Amended General Agency
          Agreement ("SAGAA") dated as of November 1,
          1989 by and among Primerica Life Insurance
          Company (formerly Massachusetts Indemnity
          Life Insurance Company; hereinafter
          "Primerica Life"), A.L. Williams &
          Associates, Inc. and Arthur L. Williams,
          Jr., incorporated by reference to Exhibit
          10.15 to the Company's 1990 10-K.

 10.13    Restated First Amendment to SAGAA dated as
          of November 1, 1989 by and among Primerica
          Life, A.L. Williams & Associates, Inc. and
          Arthur L. Williams, Jr., incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.16 to the Company's
          1990 10-K.
 10.14    Restated and Amended Agreement of Charles D.
          Adams dated as of November 1, 1989 for the
          benefit of each of the Company, A.L.
          Williams & Associates, Inc. and The A.L.
          Williams Corporation, incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.17 to the Company's
          1990 10-K.

 10.15    Restated and Amended Agreement of Angela H.
          Williams dated as of November 1, 1989 for
          the benefit of each of the Company, A.L.
          Williams & Associates, Inc. and The A.L.
          Williams Corporation, incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the Company's
          1990 10-K.

 10.16.1  Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of March
          12, 1993, by and among Shearson Lehman
          Brothers Inc., Smith Barney Inc. ("SBI";
          formerly Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co.
          Incorporated), the Company, American Express
          Company and Shearson Lehman Brothers
          Holdings Inc. (the "SLB Agreement"),
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21
          to the Company's 1992 10-K.



                                         68

<PAGE>




 
 Exhibit                                                    Filing
 Number   Description of Exhibit                            Method
 ------   ----------------------                            ------

 10.16.2  Amendment No. 1, dated as of July 31, 1993,
          to the SLB Agreement, incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.01 to the Company's
          Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
          quarter ended June 30, 1993 (File No. 1-
          9924) (the "Company's June 30, 1993 10-Q").

 10.16.3  Amendment No. 2 dated as of July 31, 1993,
          to the SLB Agreement, incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.02 to the Company's
          June 30, 1993 10-Q.
 10.17.1* Employment Agreement dated June 23, 1993, by
          and among SBI, the Company and Robert F.
          Greenhill (the "RFG Employment Agreement"),
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.01
          to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
          10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September
          30, 1993 (File No. 1-9924) (the "Company's
          September 30, 1993 10-Q").

 10.17.2* Amendment to the RFG Employment Agreement,
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17.2
          to the Company's March 31, 1994 10-Q.
 10.18*   Memorandum of Sale dated June 23, 1993,
          between the Company and Robert F. Greenhill,
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.02
          to the Company's September 30, 1993 10-Q.

 10.19*   Registration Rights Agreement dated June 23,
          1993, between the Company and Robert F.
          Greenhill, incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 10.03 to the Company's September 30,
          1993 10-Q.

 10.20*   Restricted Shares Agreement dated June 23,
          1993, by and between the Company and Robert
          F. Greenhill, incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 10.04 to the Company's September 30,
          1993 10-Q.
 10.21    Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of
          September 23, 1993, between the Company and
          The Travelers Corporation ("old Travelers"),
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to
          the Current Report on Form 8-K of old
          Travelers, dated September 23, 1993 and
          filed with the Commission on October 8, 1993
          (File No. 1-5799).

 10.22*   Employment Agreement effective January 1,         Electronic
          1995 between the Company and Michael A.
          Carpenter.



                                         69

<PAGE>




 
 Exhibit                                                    Filing
 Number   Description of Exhibit                            Method
 ------   ----------------------                            ------

 10.23.1* The Travelers Corporation 1982 Stock Option
          Plan, as amended January 10, 1992,
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)
          to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of old
          Travelers for the fiscal year ended December
          31, 1991 (File No. 1-5799) (the "old
          Travelers' 1991 10-K").

 10.23.2* Amendment to The Travelers Corporation 1982       Electronic
          Stock Option Plan.
 10.24.1* The Travelers Corporation 1988 Stock
          Incentive Plan, as amended April 7, 1992,
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b)
          to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of old
          Travelers for the fiscal year ended December
          31, 1992 (File No. 1-5799) (the "old
          Travelers' 1992 10-K").

 10.24.2* Amendment to The Travelers Corporation 1988       Electronic
          Stock Incentive Plan.
 10.25*   The Travelers Corporation 1984 Management
          Incentive Plan, as amended effective January
          1, 1991, incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 10(c) to the Annual Report on Form
          10-K of old Travelers for the fiscal year
          ended December 31, 1990 (File No. 1-5799).

 10.26*   The Travelers Corporation Supplemental
          Benefit Plan, effective December 20, 1992,
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d)
          to the Annual Report on the old Travelers'
          1992 10-K.

 10.27*   The Travelers Corporation TESIP Restoration
          and Non-Qualified Savings Plan, effective
          January 1, 1991, incorporated by reference
          to Exhibit 10(e) to the old Travelers' 1991
          10-K.
 10.28*   The Travelers Severance Plan of Officers, as
          amended September 23, 1993, incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.30 to the Company's
          1993 Form 10-K.

 10.29*   The Travelers Corporation Directors'
          Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended
          November 7, 1986, incorporated by reference
          to Exhibit 10(d) to the Annual Report on
          Form 10-K of old Travelers for the fiscal
          year ended December 31, 1986 (File No. 1-
          5799).
 10.30*   Employment Agreement dated as of December         Electronic
          30, 1994, between SBI and Joseph J. Plumeri
          II.

 11.01    Computation of Earnings Per Share.                Electronic




                                         70

<PAGE>




 
 Exhibit                                                    Filing
 Number   Description of Exhibit                            Method
 ------   ----------------------                            ------

 12.01    Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed         Electronic
          Charges.                                       

 13.01    Pages 29 through 68 of the 1994 Annual            Electronic
          Report to Stockholders of the Company          
          (pagination of exhibit does not correspond
          to pagination in the 1994 Annual Report to
          Stockholders).

 21.01    Subsidiaries of the Company.                      Electronic
                                                         

 23.01    Consent of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, Independent     Electronic
          Certified Public Accountants.                  

 23.02    Consent of Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.,              Electronic
          Independent Accountants.                                   

 24.01    Powers of Attorney.                               Electronic
                                                         

 27.01    Financial Data Schedule.                          Electronic
                                                         
 28.01    Information from Reports Furnished to State            P
          Insurance Regulatory Authorities.  Schedule          Paper
          P of the Combined Annual Statement of
          The Travelers Insurance Group Inc. and its
          affiliated property and casualty insurers.
          
 99.01    Consolidated balance sheets of The Travelers      Electronic
          Corporation and Subsidiaries as of December    
          31, 1993 and 1992, and the related
          consolidated statements of operations and
          retained earnings and cash flows for each of
          the three years in the period ended December
          31, 1993, together with the notes thereto
          and the related report of Independent
          Accountants.

 99.02    The last paragraph of page 2 and the first        Electronic
          two paragraphs of page 3 of the Company's      
          Current Report on Form 8-K dated September
          23, 1993 (File No. 1-9924), the third
          paragraph of page 26 of the Company's
          September 30, 1993 10-Q, and the third
          paragraph of page 2 of the Company's Current
          Report on Form 8-K dated March 1, 1994 (File
          No. 1-9924) (the "Company's March 1, 1994 
          8-K").

 99.03    The third and fourth paragraphs of page 30        Electronic
          of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K    
          for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1989
          (File No. 1-9924) (the "Company's 1989 
          10-K").

 99.04    The first, second and third paragraphs of         Electronic
          page 31 of the Company's 1989 10-K, and the    
          first paragraph of page 30 of the Company's
          1990 10-K.



                                         71

<PAGE>




 
 Exhibit                                                    Filing
 Number   Description of Exhibit                            Method
 ------   ----------------------                            ------

 99.05    The fourth paragraph of page 26 of the            Electronic
          Company's September 30, 1993 10-Q.             

 99.06    The first full paragraph of page 26 of the        Electronic
          Company's 1992 10-K.                           
 99.07    The fourth paragraph of page 2 of the             Electronic
          Company's March 1, 1994 8-K.                   

 99.08    The paragraph that begins on page 2 and ends      Electronic
          on page 3 of the Company's March 1, 1994 8-K.    
          
 99.09    The second paragraph of page 29 of the            Electronic
          Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
          the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 1994
          (File No. 1-9924).


     The total amount of securities authorized pursuant to any
     instrument defining rights of holders of long-term debt of the
     Company does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the Company
     and its consolidated subsidiaries.  The Company will furnish
     copies of any such instrument to the Commission upon request.

     The financial statements required by Form 11-K for 1994 for the
     Company's employee savings plans will be filed as exhibits by
     amendment to this Form 10-K pursuant to Rule 15d-21 of the
     Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     Copies of any of the exhibits referred to above will be furnished
     at a cost of $.25 per page (except that no charge will be made
     for the 1994 Annual Report on Form 10-K) to security holders who
     make written request therefor to Corporate Communications and
     Investor Relations Department, The Travelers Inc., 388 Greenwich
     Street, New York, New York 10013.



                
  -------------
  *    Denotes a management contract or compensatory plan or
       arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to
       Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.








                                         72

<PAGE>




                                      SIGNATURES

               Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the

        Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this

        report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly

        authorized, on the 30th day of March, 1995.

                                           THE TRAVELERS INC.
                                           (Registrant)

                                           By:  /s/ Sanford I. Weill
                                                . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                               Sanford I. Weill, Chairman of
                                               the Board and Chief Executive
                                               Officer

               Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
        1934, this report has been signed by the following persons on behalf
        of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 30th day of
        March, 1995.

                  Signature                Title
                  ---------                -----

           /s/ Sanford I. Weill
        . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        Chairman of the Board, Chief
              Sanford I. Weill             Executive Officer
                                           (Principal Executive Officer)
                                           and Director


           /s/ James Dimon
        . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        President, Chief Operating
                 James Dimon               Officer,
                                           Chief Financial Officer
                                           (Principal Financial
                                           Officer) and Director


           /s/ Irwin R. Ettinger
        . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        Senior Vice President and Chief
              Irwin R. Ettinger            Accounting Officer 
                                           (Principal Accounting Officer)
                                           

                      *
        . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        Director
            C. Michael Armstrong



                      *
        . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        Director
             Kenneth J. Bialkin














                                         73

<PAGE>





                  Signature                Title
                  ---------                -----

                      *
        . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        Director
               Edward H. Budd


                      *
        . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        Director
           Joseph A. Califano, Jr.


                      *
        . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        Director
             Douglas D. Danforth

                      *
        . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        Director
              Robert F. Daniell


                      *
        . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        Director
             Leslie B. Disharoon


        . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        Director
               Gerald R. Ford


                      *
        . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        Director
             Robert F. Greenhill


                      *
        . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        Director
              Ann Dibble Jordan

                      *
        . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        Director
               Robert I. Lipp


                      *
        . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        Director
               Dudley C. Mecum


























                                          74

<PAGE>





                  Signature                Title
                  ---------                -----

                      *
        . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        Director
             Andrall E. Pearson


                      *
        . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        Director
               Frank J. Tasco



        . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        Director
              Linda J. Wachner

                      *
        . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        Director
            Joseph R. Wright, Jr.


                      *
        . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        Director
                Arthur Zankel

               /s/ James Dimon
        *By:  . . . . . . . . . . .
               James Dimon
               Attorney-in-fact





                                          75

<PAGE>



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                  The Travelers Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                       INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES*

                                                  _________________________________ 

                                                                                                Incorporated
                                                                                              By Reference from
                                                                                             the Company's 1994
                                                                                              Annual Report to
                                                                                    Page       Stockholders at
                                                                                    Herein     Page Indicated  
                                                                                    ------   ------------------
<S>                                                                                 <C>      <C>
           Independent Auditors' Report                                             F-2                68

           Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended
           December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                                                            41

           Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at                             
           December 31, 1994 and 1993                                                                  42

           Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders'
           Equity for the year ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                                  43

           Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended
           December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                                                            44


           Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                                                  45-67

           Schedules:



                   Schedule I - Condensed Financial Information of
                   Registrant (Parent Company only)                               F-3 - F-6

                   Schedule III - Supplementary Insurance Information                F-7

                   Schedule IV - Reinsurance                                         F-8
</TABLE>


       *Schedules not listed are omitted as not applicable or not required by
       Regulation S-X.


                                        F - 1



<PAGE>






                             Independent Auditors' Report
                             ----------------------------



          The Board of Directors and Stockholders
          The Travelers Inc.:


          Under date of January 17, 1995, we reported on the consolidated
          statements of financial position of The Travelers Inc. and
          subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the related
          statements of income, changes in stockholders' equity, and cash
          flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
          December 31, 1994, which are contained in the 1994 annual report
          to stockholders.  These consolidated financial statements and our
          report thereon are incorporated by reference in the annual report
          on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994.  In connection
          with our audits of the aforementioned consolidated financial
          statements, we also audited the related financial statement
          schedules which are listed on the accompanying index.  These
          financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the
          Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an
          opinion on these financial statement schedules based on our
          audits.

          In our opinion, these financial statement schedules, when
          considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial
          statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in all material
          respects, the information set forth therein.

          As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements,
          the Company changed its method of accounting for certain
          investments in debt and equity securities in 1994.  Also, as
          discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the
          Company changed its methods of accounting for postretirement
          benefits other than pensions and accounting for postemployment
          benefits in 1993, and its method of accounting for income taxes
          in 1992.


          /s/ KPMG Peat Marwick LLP
          New York, New York
          January 17, 1995










                                         F-2







<PAGE>







<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                              SCHEDULE I
                                                           The Travelers Inc.
                                                          (Parent Company Only)

                                              Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
                                                        (In millions of dollars)

                                                      Condensed Statement of Income

                                                                                   Year Ended December 31,
                                                                                   -----------------------
                                                                              1994           1993           1992 
                                                                              ----           ----           ----
<S>                                                                         <C>              <C>            <C>
                Income:
                -------
                  Equity in income of old Travelers                         $    -           $126           $  - 
                  Gain on sales of stock of subsidiaries and affiliate                          -             96  
                  Other                                                          3              6             12 
                                                                             -----            ---            ---
                     Total                                                       3            132            108 
                                                                             -----            ---            ---
                                                                                                  
                Expenses:
                ---------
                  Interest                                                     120             77             79 
                  Other                                                         87             46             58 
                                                                             -----            ---            ---
                     Total                                                     207            123            137 
                                                                             -----            ---            ---

                Pre-tax income (loss)                                         (204)             9            (29)
                Income tax benefit                                              82             35              9 
                                                                             -----            ---            ---
                Net (loss) income before equity in net income
                  of subsidiaries                                             (122)            44            (20)
                Equity in net income of subsidiaries                         1,448            907            776 
                Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles
                  (including $17 and $28 in 1993 and 1992, 
                   respectively, applicable to subsidiaries)                     -            (35)           (28)
                                                                             -----            ---            ---
                Net income                                                  $1,326           $916           $728 
                                                                             =====            ===            ===
</TABLE>



          The condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction
          with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and
          the accompanying notes to the condensed financial information of
          Registrant.











                                         F-3

<PAGE>







<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                                  SCHEDULE I
                                                           The Travelers Inc. 
                                                          (Parent Company Only)
                                              Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
                                            (In millions of dollars except per share amounts)
                                                Condensed Statement of Financial Position

                                                                                            December 31,
                                                                                            ------------
                                                                                         1994          1993 
                                                                                        -----          ----
<S>                                                                                   <C>          <C>
            Assets
            ------
            Investment in subsidiaries at equity                                      $10,592       $11,808 
            Advances to and receivables from subsidiaries                                  96           433 
            Cost of acquired businesses in excess of net assets                           508           686 
            Other                                                                          39            24 
                                                                                       ------        ------
                                                                                      $11,235       $12,951 
                                                                                       ------        ------
            Liabilities
            -----------
            Short-term borrowings                                                     $   101       $   329 
            Long-term debt                                                              1,377         1,504 
            Advances from and payables to subsidiaries                                    285         1,033 
            Other liabilities                                                             433           549 
                                                                                       ------        ------
                                                                                        2,196         3,415 
                                                                                       ------        ------

            Redeemable preferred stock (held by subsidiary)                               261           100 
                                                                                       ------        ------

            ESOP Preferred stock - Series C                                               235           235 
            Guaranteed ESOP obligation                                                    (97)         (125)
                                                                                       ------        ------
                                                                                          138           110 
                                                                                       ------        ------
            Stockholders' equity
            --------------------
            Preferred stock ($1.00 par value; authorized shares: 30 million), at
             aggregate liquidation value                                                   800           800
            Common stock ($.01 par value; authorized shares:
             500 million; issued shares: 1994 - 368,195,609 and
             1993 - 368,287,709)                                                             4             4
            Additional paid-in capital                                                   6,655         6,566
            Retained earnings                                                            4,199         3,140
            Treasury stock, at cost (1994 - 51,684,618 shares;
             1993 - 41,155,405 shares)                                                 (1,553)       (1,121)
            Unrealized gain (loss) on investment securities and other, net             (1,465)          (63)
                                                                                       -------        ------
                                                                                         8,640         9,326
                                                                                       -------        ------
                                                                                      $ 11,235       $12,951
                                                                                       =======        ======
</TABLE>

        The condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with
        the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and the
        accompanying notes to the condensed financial information of
        Registrant.





                                         F-4


<PAGE>



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                                   SCHEDULE I
                                                           The Travelers Inc.
                                                          (Parent Company Only)

                                              Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
                                                        (In millions of dollars)

                                                    Condensed Statement of Cash Flows

                                                                                     Year ended December 31,
                                                                                     -----------------------
                                                                           1994              1993            1992
                                                                           ----              ----            ----
<S>                                                                      <C>              <C>              <C>
           Cash Flows From Operating Activities
           ------------------------------------
           Net Income                                                    $1,326           $  916           $ 728 
           Adjustments to reconcile net income to
             cash provided by operating activities:
           Equity in net income of subsidiaries                          (1,448)            (907)           (776)
           Dividends received from subsidiaries, net                      1,409              349             365 
           Advances (to) from subsidiaries, net                            (411)              45             292 
           Other, net                                                       377               61              57 
                                                                         ------            -----           -----
           Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities            1,253              464             666 
                                                                         ------            -----           -----
           Cash Flows From Investing Activities
           ------------------------------------
           Capital contribution to subsidiaries                               -           (1,100)              - 
           Business acquisitions                                              -                -            (485)
           Business divestments                                               -                -             258 
                                                                         ------           ------           -----
           Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities                -           (1,100)           (227)
                                                                         ------           ------           -----

           Cash Flows From Financing Activities
           ------------------------------------
           Issuance of preferred stock                                        -                 -            290 
           Dividends paid                                                  (267)            (139)            (85)
           Issuance of common stock                                          -               329               - 
           Treasury stock acquired                                         (543)             (58)           (122)
           Issuance of long-term debt                                         -              450             100 
           Payments and redemptions of long-term debt                       (93)             (35)           (209)
           Net change in short-term borrowings                             (228)             258            (271)
           Redemption of redeemable preferred stock
             (held by subsidiary)                                          (100)            (100)           (100)
           Other, net                                                       (22)             (69)            (42)
                                                                        -------          -------          ------
           Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities           (1,253)             636            (439)
                                                                         ------           ------           -----
           Change in cash                                              $      -         $      -         $     - 
                                                                        =======          =======          ======

           Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:
           -------------------------------------------------
           Cash paid during the period for interest                     $   107          $    68          $   84 
                                                                         ======           ======           =====
           Cash received during the period for taxes                    $   268          $   129          $   65 
                                                                         ======           ======           =====
</TABLE>

       The condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction
       with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and the
       accompanying notes to the condensed financial information of
       Registrant.










                                       F-5




<PAGE>



                                                                 SCHEDULE I
             Notes to Condensed Financial Statements of Registrant 
             (In millions of dollars)


          1.   Principles of Consolidation
               ---------------------------

             The accompanying financial statement include the accounts of
             The Travelers Inc. (the Parent) and on an equity basis its
             subsidiaries and affiliates and should be read in conjunction
             with the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto.


          2.   Debt
               ----

             Aggregate annual maturities for the next five years on long-
             term debt obligations excluding principal payments on the ESOP
             loan obligation are as follows:

                                   1995 $  - 
                                   1996 $ 100
                                   1997 $ 185
                                   1998 $ 250
                                   1999 $ 100

          3.   Supplementary Disclosure of Non-Cash Investing and Financing
               ------------------------------------------------------------
               Activities
               ----------

             During 1994, the Parent issued $261 of redeemable preferred 
             stock to various subsidiaries in exchange for an equivalent 
             value of The Travelers Inc. common stock previously held by 
             these subsidiaries.  This activity was recorded as a non-cash 
             capital contribution to subsidiaries by the Parent.


























                                         F-6



<PAGE>

                                                SCHEDULE III
                                     THE TRAVELERS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                     Supplementary Insurance Information
                                                    1994
                                          (In millions of dollars)
<TABLE><CAPTION>
                              Value of
                            insurance in
                             force and     Future policy
                              deferred        benefits                 Other policy
                               policy      losses, claims               claims and                   Net
                            acquisition       and loss      Unearned     benefits     Premium    investment
Segment                        costs          expenses      premiums      payable     revenue      income
-----------                 -----------    --------------   --------   ------------   -------    ----------
<S>                         <C>            <C>              <C>        <C>            <C>        <C>
Life Insurance Services       $1,923          $ 9,115        $1,853      $1,248       $3,985       $1,869
P&C Insurance Services           221           14,374           103           -        3,498          644
Consumer Finance Services*        19               15           320          56          115           31
Corporate and Other                                                                       (8)           9
                                                                                          ---           -
                              ------          -------        ------      ------       -------      ------
  Total                       $2,163          $23,504        $2,276      $1,304       $7,590       $2,553
                              ======          =======        ======      ======       =======      ======
<CAPTION>
                                           Amortization
                              Benefits,    of deferred
                               claims          policy
                               losses   acquisition costs
                                 and        and value        Other
                             settlement    of insurance    operating    Premiums
Segment                       expenses        in force     expenses     written   
-----------                  ----------    ------------    ---------  -----------
<S>                          <C>           <C>             <C>        <C>        
Life Insurance Services        $4,661          $282         $1,040       $4,032
P&C Insurance Services          3,114           532            615        3,824
Consumer Finance Services*         43             4             22          172
Corporate and Other               (21)                          77
                               -------         ----         ------       ------
  Total                        $7,797          $818         $1,754       $8,028
                               =======         ====         ======       ======
</TABLE>


*  Includes credit life insurance operations.


                                                F-7



<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                            SCHEDULE IV
                                          The Travelers Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                                      Reinsurance
                                               (In millions of dollars)



     Column A                       Column B        Column C       Column D       Column E     Column F
     --------                       --------        --------       --------       --------     --------
                                                                                                 % of
                                                    Ceded to       Assumed                      Amount
                                      Gross          Other        From Other        Net         Assumed
                                      Amount       Companies      Companies        Amount       To Net 
                                      ------       ---------      ---------        ------       -------

<S>                                 <C>            <C>             <C>           <C>           <C>
Year ended December 31, 1994
----------------------------

Life insurance in force             $527,964       $(106,024)       $4,284       $426,224       1.01% 
                                     =======        ========         =====        =======       =====

Premiums
  Life insurance                      $1,872           $(295)           $6         $1,583        0.4% 
  Accident and health insurance        2,568            (107)           23          2,484        0.9% 
  Property and 
   casualty insurance                  4,630          (1,529)          422          3,523       12.0% 
                                       -----          ------           ---          -----
                                      $9,070         $(1,931)         $451         $7,590
                                       =====          ======           ===          =====

Year ended December 31, 1993
----------------------------

Life insurance in force             $502,319       $( 93,744)       $5,126       $413,701       1.24% 
                                     =======        ========         =====        =======      ======


Premiums
  Life insurance                      $1,176           $(284)         $ 2          $  894        0.2% 
  Accident and health insurance          393             (56)          (8)            329       (2.4)%
  Property and 
   casualty insurance                    417            (177)           17            257        6.6% 
                                       -----            ----           ---          -----
                                      $1,986           $(517)         $ 11         $1,480
                                       =====            ====           ===          =====


Year ended December 31, 1992
----------------------------

Life insurance in force             $324,643       $ (90,379)       $1,550       $235,814        0.7% 
                                     =======        ========         =====        =======       =====

Premiums
  Life insurance                      $1,212           $(312)          $ 9          $ 909        1.0% 
  Accident and health insurance          437             (40)            7            404        1.7% 
  Property and 
   casualty insurance                    513            (180)           48            381       12.6% 
                                       -----            ----            --          -----
                                      $2,162           $(532)          $64         $1,694
                                       =====            ====            ==          =====
</TABLE>







                                         F-8





<PAGE>


                               EXHIBIT INDEX
                               -------------

 Exhibit                                                    Filing
 Number   Description of Exhibit                            Method
 ------   ----------------------                            ------

 3.01     Restated Certificate of Incorporation of The
          Travelers Inc. (the "Company") and
          Certificate of Designation of Cumulative
          Adjustable Rate Preferred Stock, Series Y,
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.01 to
          the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
          for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1994
          (File No. 1-9924) (the "Company's March 31,
          1994 10-Q")

 3.02     By-Laws of the Company as amended through
          April 27, 1994, incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 3.02 to the Company's March 31, 1994
          10-Q. 
 10.01*   Employment Protection Agreement, dated as of
          December 31, 1987, between the Company (as
          successor to Commercial Credit Company
          ("CCC")) and Sanford I. Weill, incorporated
          by reference to Exhibit 10.03 to CCC's
          Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
          year ended December 31, 1987 (File No. 1-
          6594).

 10.02.1* Stock Option Plan of the Company, as amended
          through April 26, 1989, incorporated by
          reference to Annex A to the prospectus
          contained in the Company's Registration
          Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-29711).
 10.02.2* Amendment to the Company's Stock Option
          Plan, dated October 23, 1991, incorporated
          by reference to Exhibit 10.02.2 to the
          Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
          fiscal year ended December 31, 1991 (File
          No. 1-9924) (the "Company's 1991 10-K").

 10.02.3* Amendments to the Company's Stock Option
          Plan, approved by the Company's stockholders
          on April 22, 1992, incorporated by reference
          to Exhibit 10.02.3 to the Company's Annual
          Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
          ended December 31, 1992 (File No.1-9924)
          (the "Company's 1992 10-K").

 10.02.4* Amendment to the Company's Stock Option
          Plan, dated July 22, 1992, incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.02.4 to the
          Company's 1992 10-K.
 10.02.5* Amendment No. 11 to the Company's Stock
          Option Plan, incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 10.02.5 to the Company's Annual
          Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
          ended December 31, 1993 (File No. 1-9924)
          (the "Company's 1993 10-K").




<PAGE>




 
 Exhibit                                                    Filing
 Number   Description of Exhibit                            Method
 ------   ----------------------                            ------

 10.02.6* Amendment No. 12 to the Company's Stock
          Option Plan, incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 10.02.6 to the Company's 1993 10-K.

 10.03*   Retirement Benefit Equalization Plan of the
          Company (as successor to Primerica Holdings,
          Inc.), as amended, incorporated by reference
          to Exhibit 10.03 to the Company's 1993 10-K.
 10.04*   Letter Agreement between Joseph A. Califano,
          Jr. and the Company, dated December 14,
          1988, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
          10.21.1 to the Company's Annual Report on
          Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
          31, 1988 (File No. 1-9924) (the "Company's
          1988 10-K").

 10.05.1* The Company's Deferred Compensation Plan for
          Directors, incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 10.21.2 to the Company's 1988 10-K.
 10.05.2* Amendment to the Company's Deferred
          Compensation Plan for Directors, dated July
          22, 1992, incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 10.06.2 of the Company's 1992 10-K.

 10.06.1* Supplemental Retirement Plan of the Company,
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.23
          to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
          for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1990
          (File No. 1-9924) (the "Company's 1990 10-
          K").

 10.06.2* Amendment to the Company's Supplemental
          Retirement Plan, incorporated by reference
          to Exhibit 10.06.2 to the Company's 1993 10-
          K.
 10.07*   Long-Term Incentive Plan of the Company, as
          amended, incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 10.08 to the Company's 1992 10-K.

 10.08*   Capital Accumulation Plan of the Company          Electronic
          (the "CAP Plan"), as amended to May 16,
          1994.
 10.09*   Agreement dated December 21, 1993 between
          the Company and Edward H. Budd, incorporated
          by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the
          Company's 1993 10-K.




<PAGE>




 
 Exhibit                                                    Filing
 Number   Description of Exhibit                            Method
 ------   ----------------------                            ------

 10.10    Restated Stockholder Rights and Support
          Agreement dated as of November 1, 1989 by
          and among the Company and Arthur L. 
          Williams, Jr., Angela H. Williams, A.L.
          Williams & Associates, Inc. and The A.L.
          Williams & Associates, Inc. Pension and
          Profit Sharing Plan, incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.13 to the Company's
          1990 10-K.

 10.11    Amended and Restated Exclusive Marketing
          Agreement dated as of November 1, 1989 by
          and among the Company, A.L. Williams &
          Associates, Inc. and Arthur L. Williams,
          Jr., incorporated by reference to Exhibit
          10.14 to the Company's 1990 10-K.
 10.12    Restated Second Amended General Agency
          Agreement ("SAGAA") dated as of November 1,
          1989 by and among Primerica Life Insurance
          Company (formerly Massachusetts Indemnity
          Life Insurance Company; hereinafter
          "Primerica Life"), A.L. Williams &
          Associates, Inc. and Arthur L. Williams,
          Jr., incorporated by reference to Exhibit
          10.15 to the Company's 1990 10-K.

 10.13    Restated First Amendment to SAGAA dated as
          of November 1, 1989 by and among Primerica
          Life, A.L. Williams & Associates, Inc. and
          Arthur L. Williams, Jr., incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.16 to the Company's
          1990 10-K.
 10.14    Restated and Amended Agreement of Charles D.
          Adams dated as of November 1, 1989 for the
          benefit of each of the Company, A.L.
          Williams & Associates, Inc. and The A.L.
          Williams Corporation, incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.17 to the Company's
          1990 10-K.

 10.15    Restated and Amended Agreement of Angela H.
          Williams dated as of November 1, 1989 for
          the benefit of each of the Company, A.L.
          Williams & Associates, Inc. and The A.L.
          Williams Corporation, incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the Company's
          1990 10-K.

 10.16.1  Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of March
          12, 1993, by and among Shearson Lehman
          Brothers Inc., Smith Barney Inc. ("SBI";
          formerly Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co.
          Incorporated), the Company, American Express
          Company and Shearson Lehman Brothers
          Holdings Inc. (the "SLB Agreement"),
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21
          to the Company's 1992 10-K.




<PAGE>




 
 Exhibit                                                    Filing
 Number   Description of Exhibit                            Method
 ------   ----------------------                            ------

 10.16.2  Amendment No. 1, dated as of July 31, 1993,
          to the SLB Agreement, incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.01 to the Company's
          Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
          quarter ended June 30, 1993 (File No. 1-
          9924) (the "Company's June 30, 1993 10-Q").

 10.16.3  Amendment No. 2 dated as of July 31, 1993,
          to the SLB Agreement, incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.02 to the Company's
          June 30, 1993 10-Q.
 10.17.1* Employment Agreement dated June 23, 1993, by
          and among SBI, the Company and Robert F.
          Greenhill (the "RFG Employment Agreement"),
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.01
          to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
          10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September
          30, 1993 (File No. 1-9924) (the "Company's
          September 30, 1993 10-Q").

 10.17.2* Amendment to the RFG Employment Agreement,
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17.2
          to the Company's March 31, 1994 10-Q.
 10.18*   Memorandum of Sale dated June 23, 1993,
          between the Company and Robert F. Greenhill,
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.02
          to the Company's September 30, 1993 10-Q.

 10.19*   Registration Rights Agreement dated June 23,
          1993, between the Company and Robert F.
          Greenhill, incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 10.03 to the Company's September 30,
          1993 10-Q.

 10.20*   Restricted Shares Agreement dated June 23,
          1993, by and between the Company and Robert
          F. Greenhill, incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 10.04 to the Company's September 30,
          1993 10-Q.
 10.21    Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of
          September 23, 1993, between the Company and
          The Travelers Corporation ("old Travelers"),
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to
          the Current Report on Form 8-K of old
          Travelers, dated September 23, 1993 and
          filed with the Commission on October 8, 1993
          (File No. 1-5799).

 10.22*   Employment Agreement effective January 1,         Electronic
          1995 between the Company and Michael A.
          Carpenter.




<PAGE>




 
 Exhibit                                                    Filing
 Number   Description of Exhibit                            Method
 ------   ----------------------                            ------

 10.23.1* The Travelers Corporation 1982 Stock Option
          Plan, as amended January 10, 1992,
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)
          to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of old
          Travelers for the fiscal year ended December
          31, 1991 (File No. 1-5799) (the "old
          Travelers' 1991 10-K").

 10.23.2* Amendment to The Travelers Corporation 1982       Electronic
          Stock Option Plan.
 10.24.1* The Travelers Corporation 1988 Stock
          Incentive Plan, as amended April 7, 1992,
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b)
          to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of old
          Travelers for the fiscal year ended December
          31, 1992 (File No. 1-5799) (the "old
          Travelers' 1992 10-K").

 10.24.2* Amendment to The Travelers Corporation 1988       Electronic
          Stock Incentive Plan.
 10.25*   The Travelers Corporation 1984 Management
          Incentive Plan, as amended effective January
          1, 1991, incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 10(c) to the Annual Report on Form
          10-K of old Travelers for the fiscal year
          ended December 31, 1990 (File No. 1-5799).

 10.26*   The Travelers Corporation Supplemental
          Benefit Plan, effective December 20, 1992,
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d)
          to the Annual Report on the old Travelers'
          1992 10-K.

 10.27*   The Travelers Corporation TESIP Restoration
          and Non-Qualified Savings Plan, effective
          January 1, 1991, incorporated by reference
          to Exhibit 10(e) to the old Travelers' 1991
          10-K.
 10.28*   The Travelers Severance Plan of Officers, as
          amended September 23, 1993, incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.30 to the Company's
          1993 Form 10-K.

 10.29*   The Travelers Corporation Directors'
          Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended
          November 7, 1986, incorporated by reference
          to Exhibit 10(d) to the Annual Report on
          Form 10-K of old Travelers for the fiscal
          year ended December 31, 1986 (File No. 1-
          5799).
 10.30*   Employment Agreement dated as of December         Electronic
          30, 1994, between SBI and Joseph J. Plumeri
          II.

 11.01    Computation of Earnings Per Share.                Electronic





<PAGE>




 
 Exhibit                                                    Filing
 Number   Description of Exhibit                            Method
 ------   ----------------------                            ------

 12.01    Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed         Electronic
          Charges.                                       

 13.01    Pages 29 through 68 of the 1994 Annual            Electronic
          Report to Stockholders of the Company          
          (pagination of exhibit does not correspond
          to pagination in the 1994 Annual Report to
          Stockholders).

 21.01    Subsidiaries of the Company.                      Electronic
                                                         

 23.01    Consent of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, Independent     Electronic
          Certified Public Accountants.                  

 23.02    Consent of Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.,              Electronic
          Independent Accountants.                                   

 24.01    Powers of Attorney.                               Electronic
                                                         

 27.01    Financial Data Schedule.                          Electronic
                                                         
 28.01    Information from Reports Furnished to State          Paper
          Insurance Regulatory Authorities.  Schedule 
          P of the Combined Annual Statement of
          The Travelers Insurance Group Inc. and its
          affiliated property and casualty insurers.

 99.01    Consolidated balance sheets of The Travelers      Electronic
          Corporation and Subsidiaries as of December    
          31, 1993 and 1992, and the related
          consolidated statements of operations and
          retained earnings and cash flows for each of
          the three years in the period ended December
          31, 1993, together with the notes thereto
          and the related report of Independent
          Accountants.

 99.02    The last paragraph of page 2 and the first        Electronic
          two paragraphs of page 3 of the Company's      
          Current Report on Form 8-K dated September
          23, 1993 (File No. 1-9924), the third
          paragraph of page 26 of the Company's
          September 30, 1993 10-Q, and the third
          paragraph of page 2 of the Company's Current
          Report on Form 8-K dated March 1, 1994 (File
          No. 1-9924) (the "Company's March 1, 1994 
          8-K").

 99.03    The third and fourth paragraphs of page 30        Electronic
          of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K    
          for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1989
          (File No. 1-9924) (the "Company's 1989 
          10-K").

 99.04    The first, second and third paragraphs of         Electronic
          page 31 of the Company's 1989 10-K, and the    
          first paragraph of page 30 of the Company's
          1990 10-K.




<PAGE>




 
 Exhibit                                                    Filing
 Number   Description of Exhibit                            Method
 ------   ----------------------                            ------

 99.05    The fourth paragraph of page 26 of the            Electronic
          Company's September 30, 1993 10-Q.             

 99.06    The first full paragraph of page 26 of the        Electronic
          Company's 1992 10-K.                           
 99.07    The fourth paragraph of page 2 of the             Electronic
          Company's March 1, 1994 8-K.                   

 99.08    The paragraph that begins on page 2 and ends      Electronic
          on page 3 of the Company's March 1, 1994 8-K.    
          

 99.09    The second paragraph of page 29 of the            Electronic
          Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
          the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 1994
          (File No. 1-9924).


     The total amount of securities authorized pursuant to any
     instrument defining rights of holders of long-term debt of the
     Company does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the Company
     and its consolidated subsidiaries.  The Company will furnish
     copies of any such instrument to the Commission upon request.

     The financial statements required by Form 11-K for 1994 for the
     Company's employee savings plans will be filed as exhibits by
     amendment to this Form 10-K pursuant to Rule 15d-21 of the
     Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     Copies of any of the exhibits referred to above will be furnished
     at a cost of $.25 per page (except that no charge will be made
     for the 1994 Annual Report on Form 10-K) to security holders who
     make written request therefor to Corporate Communications and
     Investor Relations Department, The Travelers Inc., 388 Greenwich
     Street, New York, New York 10013.



                
  -------------
  *    Denotes a management contract or compensatory plan or
       arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to
       Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.








</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.08
<SEQUENCE>2
<TEXT>




                                                                Exhibit 10.08







                             THE TRAVELERS INC.
                         CAPITAL ACCUMULATION PLAN

                         as amended to May 16, 1994
SECTION 1.  Purpose of the Plan.
     The name of this plan is THE TRAVELERS INC. CAPITAL ACCUMULATION PLAN
(the "Plan").  The purpose of the Plan is to enable THE TRAVELERS INC. (the
"Company") and its Subsidiaries to attract, retain and motivate officers
and other key employees, to compensate them for their contributions to the
growth and profits of the Company and to encourage ownership of stock in
the Company on the part of such personnel.  The Plan provides incentives to
participating officers and other key employees which are linked directly to
increases in stockholder value and will therefore inure to the benefit of
all stockholders of the Company.

SECTION 2.  Definitions.
     For purposes of the Plan, the following terms shall be defined as set
forth below:

     (a)   "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
     (b)   "Cause" means termination by the Company or a Subsidiary of a
Participant's employment upon (i) the willful and continued failure by such
Participant to substantially perform his duties with the Company or a
Subsidiary (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to
physical or mental illness), after a written demand for substantial
performance is delivered to such Participant by the Board, which demand
specifically identifies the manner in which the Board believes that such
Participant has not substantially performed his duties, or (ii) the willful
engaging by a Participant in conduct which is demonstrably and materially
injurious to the Company or a Subsidiary, monetarily or otherwise.  For
purposes of this Subsection, no act, or failure to act, on a Participant's
part shall be deemed "willful" unless done, or omitted to be done, by such
Participant not in good faith and without reasonable belief that his action
or omission was in the best interest of the Company or a Subsidiary.
     (c)   "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from
time to time.
     (d)   "Committee" means the Nominations and Compensation Committee of
the Board, appointed by the Board from among its members and shall consist
of not less than three members thereof who are and shall remain Committee
members only so long as they remain "disinterested persons" as defined in
Rule 16b-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     (e)   "Disability" means permanent and total disability as determined
under the Company's long- term disability plan.
     (f)   "Eligible Employee" means an employee of the Company or any
Subsidiary as described in Section 3.
     (g)   "Options" mean non-qualified stock options to purchase shares
of Stock which are not incentive stock options under Section 422A of the
Code and which are granted under Section 6 herein.
     (h)   "Participant" means an Eligible Employee selected by the
Committee, pursuant to the Committee's authority in Section 7, to receive
an award of Restricted Stock.

     (i)   "Related Employment" means the employment of an individual by
an employer which is neither the Company nor a Subsidiary provided (i) such
employment is undertaken by the individual at the request of the Company or
a Subsidiary, (ii) immediately prior to undertaking such employment, the
individual was an officer or employee of the Company or a Subsidiary, or
was engaged in Related Employment as herein defined and (iii) such
employment is recognized by the Committee, in its sole discretion, as
Related Employment for purposes of this Plan.  The death or Disability of
an individual during a period of Related Employment as herein defined shall
be treated, for purposes of this Plan, as if the death or onset of
Disability had occurred while the individual was an officer or employee of
the Company or a Subsidiary.
     (j)   "Restricted Stock" means an award of shares of Stock that is
subject to the restrictions set forth in Section 5.




                                     1






<PAGE>




     (k)   "Retirement" means retirement of a Participant from active
employment with the Company or any Subsidiary with a full and unreduced
pension benefit under an approved retirement program of the Company or a
Subsidiary.

     (l)   "Stock" means the common stock of the Company.
     (m)   "Subsidiary" means any corporation (other than the Company) 50%
or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of which
is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company.

SECTION 3.  Eligibility and Participation.
     Officers and other key employees of the Company or its Subsidiaries
who are responsible for or contribute to the management, growth and/or
profitability of the Company or its Subsidiaries shall be eligible to
participate in the Plan.  The Participants under the Plan shall be selected
from time of time by the Committee, in its sole discretion, from among
Eligible Employees.

SECTION 4.  Amount and Form of Awards.
     (a)   Awards under the Plan shall be determined by the Committee in
its discretion.  Awards will be made in lieu of cash payment of a
percentage of the Participant's annual compensation and will be granted at
such time as the Committee may in its sole discretion determine, and the
Committee may also in its sole discretion provide for alternative methods
for grants of awards.  A Participant will receive such award in Restricted
Stock or, alternatively, and, if so elected by the Participant and
determined by the Committee pursuant to Section 6, a portion of such award
may be received in Options.

     (b)   The maximum number of shares of Stock which may be issued under
the Plan, either as Restricted Stock or pursuant to the exercise of
Options, shall be not more than 31,000,000 shares of Stock, subject to
adjustment as provided in Section 8, and such shares may be authorized but
unissued shares, or previously issued shares reacquired by the Company, or
both.  In the event Restricted Stock is forfeited, or an outstanding Option
is terminated, expires or is canceled, prior to the end of the period
during which the restrictions on Restricted Stock expire, or the Options
can be exercised, the shares of Stock called for by such award of
Restricted Stock or the unexercised portion of the Option award will become
available for future awards.

SECTION 5.  Restricted Stock.
     (a)   The number of shares of Restricted Stock awarded to a
Participant under the Plan will be determined by a formula or formulas
approved by the Committee.  In order to reflect the impact of the
restrictions on the value of the Restricted Stock, as well as the
possibility of forfeiture of Restricted Stock, the fair market value of
Stock shall be discounted at a rate of 25% in determining the number of
shares of Restricted Stock to be awarded.  The Committee may, where it
deems appropriate, and in its sole discretion, provide for an alternative
discount rate.  For purpose of this Plan, the fair market value of Stock
for an award will be the average of the Stock's closing prices on the
Composite Tape of the New York Stock Exchange for the five trading days
prior to the date of the award.  The dollar value of an award will be
divided by the discounted market value to determine the number of shares of
Restricted Stock in an award.  The value of fractional shares will be paid
in cash.
     (b)   A Participant shall not have any rights with respect to an
award, unless or until such Participant has executed an agreement
evidencing the award (a "Restricted Stock Award Agreement") and has
delivered a fully executed copy thereof to the Company, within a period of
60 days after the date of the award (or such shorter period after the date
of the award as the Committee may specify). Each Participant who is awarded
Restricted Stock may, but need not, be issued a stock certificate in
respect of such shares of Restricted Stock.  A "book entry" (i.e., a
computerized or manual entry) shall be made in the records of the Company
to evidence an award of shares of Restricted Stock to a Participant where
no certificate is issued in the name of the Participant.  Such Company
records shall, absent manifest error, be binding on the Participants.  Each
certificate, if any, registered in the name of a Participant shall bear an
appropriate legend referring to the terms, conditions, and restrictions
applicable to such award, substantially in the following form:


                                     2






<PAGE>




        "The transferability of the certificate and the shares of
        stock represented hereby are subject to the terms and
        conditions (including forfeiture) of The Travelers Inc.
        Capital Accumulation Plan and a Restricted Stock Award
        Agreement entered into between the registered owner and The
        Travelers Inc.  Copies of such Plan and Agreement are on
        file in the offices of The Travelers Inc."

     The Committee shall require that any stock certificate issued in the
name of a Participant evidencing shares of Restricted Stock be held in the
custody of the Company until the restrictions thereon shall have lapsed,
and that, as a condition of such issuance of a certificate for Restricted
Stock, the Participant shall have delivered a stock power, endorsed in
blank, relating to the shares covered by such certificate.
     (c)   The shares of Restricted Stock awarded pursuant to this Section
5 shall be subject to the following restrictions and conditions:
        (i)    Subject to the provisions of the Plan and the Restricted
     Stock Award Agreements, during the two-year period (together with any
     extensions thereof approved as provided herein) commencing on the date
     of the award (the "Restricted Period"), the Participant shall not be
     permitted to sell, transfer, pledge or assign shares of Restricted
     Stock awarded under the Plan.  The Committee may, in its sole
     discretion, (x) initially provide for an alternative Restricted Period
     or alter the two-year Restricted Period for a previously granted award
     (provided that the Committee may not extend the Restricted Period for
     a previously granted award without the Participant's written consent),
     (y) during any extension of such Restricted Period, provide for
     alternative restrictions (provided that nothing contained in this
     clause shall grant the Committee any additional powers under the Plan
     with respect to awards granted to or to be granted to persons who are
     subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
     amended), and (z) provide for the lapse of any such restrictions in
     installments and accelerate or waive any such restrictions in whole or
     in part based on such factors and such circumstances as the Committee
     may determine, in its sole discretion, including, but not limited to,
     the Participant's Retirement, termination, death or Disability.
        (ii)   Unless the Committee in its sole discretion shall determine
     otherwise at or prior to the time of the grant of any award, the
     Participant shall have the right to direct the vote of his shares of
     Restricted Stock during the Restricted Period, in accordance with
     paragraph (e) of this Section 5.  The Participant shall have the right
     to receive any regular dividends on such shares of Restricted Stock. 
     The Committee shall in its sole discretion determine the Participant's
     rights with respect to extraordinary dividends on the shares of
     Restricted Stock.

        (iii)  Certificates for shares of Restricted Stock shall be
     delivered to the Participant promptly after, and only after, the
     Restricted Period shall expire (or such earlier time as the
     restrictions may lapse in accordance with paragraph (c)(i) of this
     Section 5) without forfeiture in respect of such shares of Restricted
     Stock.
     (d)   Subject to the provisions of paragraph (c)(i) of this Section
5, the following provisions shall apply to a Participant's shares of
Restricted Stock prior to the end of the Restricted Period (including
extensions and Related Employment):
        (i)    Upon the death or Disability of a Participant, the
     restrictions on his or her Restricted Stock shall immediately lapse.
        (ii)   If a Participant voluntarily terminates employment or if a
     Participant is involuntarily terminated for Cause, such Participant
     shall forfeit his or her Restricted Stock.

        (iii)  If a Participant is involuntarily terminated without cause
     or retires from employment, but does not fall within the definition of
     Retirement, such Participant shall forfeit his or her Restricted Stock
     and receive in return, without interest, a cash payment equal to the
     portion of his or her annual compensation that had been paid in the
     form of such forfeited Restricted Stock.
        (iv)   If a Participant whose total annual compensation is less
     than $100,000 terminates employment upon Retirement, he or she shall
     receive his or her Restricted Stock upon completion of the Restricted
     Period.  If a Participant whose total annual compensation equals 


                                     3






<PAGE>




     or exceeds $100,000 terminates employment upon Retirement, he or she
     shall receive, in the sole discretion of the Committee, either (A) his
     or her Restricted Stock upon the completion of the Restricted Period,
     or (B) a cash payment equal to the portion of his or her annual
     compensation that had been paid in the form of Restricted Stock,
     without interest.

     (e)   Unless the Committee in its sole discretion shall determine
otherwise at or prior to the time of the grant of any award, during the
Restricted Period the shares of Restricted Stock shall be voted by the
Company's senior administrative officer in charge of administering the
Plan, or such other person as the Committee may designate (the "Plan
Administrator"), and the Plan Administrator shall vote such shares in
accordance with instructions received from Participants (unless to do so
would constitute a violation of the Plan Administrator's fiduciary duties). 
Shares as to which no instructions are received shall be voted by the Plan
Administrator proportionately in accordance with instructions received from
Participants in the Plan (unless to do so would constitute a violation of
the Plan Administrator's fiduciary duties).

SECTION 6.  Election of Options.
     (a)   At the time a Participant is notified of his or her award of
Restricted Stock under the Plan, the Committee in its sole discretion may
permit such Participant to elect to receive up to a maximum of one-third
(1/3) of his or her award in the form of Options.  The Committee in its
sole discretion shall determine the number of Options to be awarded in lieu
of each share of Restricted Stock given up and may alter the maximum
percentage of Restricted Stock which may be exchanged for Options.  Such
election shall be made within a period of 60 days after the grant of the
Option (or such shorter period after the date of the award as the Committee
may specify).  In the absence of such an election, the award will be paid
entirely in shares of Restricted Stock.
     (b)   Options will be granted with an exercise price equal to the
fair market value of Stock, which will be the average of the Stock's
closing prices on the Composite Tape of the New York Stock Exchange on the
five trading days prior to the grant date.  The Committee in its discretion
shall determine the expiration date of the Options, provided that in no
event shall the expiration date be later than ten years from the date of
the award.  Options granted under the Plan shall vest pursuant to a
schedule determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, prior to the
Participant's election to receive Options.
     (c)   Recipients of Options shall enter into a stock option agreement
with the Company, in such form as the Committee shall determine, which
agreement shall set forth, among other things, the exercise price of the
Option, the term of the Option and provisions regarding exercisability of
the Option granted thereunder.
     (d)   Options are not transferable other than by will or the laws of
descent and distribution or pursuant to a qualified domestic relations
order as defined by the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act.  During the lifetime of the Participant the Options may be
exercised only by the Participant.
     (e)   An Option shall not be exercisable unless payment in full is
made for the shares being acquired thereunder at the time of exercise; such
payment shall be made (A) in United States dollars by cash or check, or (B)
in lieu thereof, unless the Committee shall in its sole discretion
determine otherwise, by tendering to the Company Stock owned by the person
exercising the Option (or owned by the person exercising the Option and his
or her spouse, jointly) and acquired more than six months prior to such
tender, including shares of Restricted Stock awarded hereunder at least six
months prior to such tender, and having a fair market value equal to the
cash exercise price applicable to such Option, such fair market value to be
determined in such reasonable manner as may be provided for from time to
time by the Committee or as may be required in order to comply with or to
conform to the requirements of any applicable or relevant laws or
regulations, or (C) by a combination of United States dollars and Stock as
aforesaid.
     (f)   An Option shall not be exercisable unless the person exercising
the Option has been, at all times during the period beginning with the date
of grant of the Option and ending on the date of such exercise, an officer
or employee of the Company or a Subsidiary, except that:



                                     4






<PAGE>




        (i)    if such person shall cease to be an officer or employee of
     the Company or a Subsidiary solely by reason of a period of Related
     Employment, he or she may, during such period of Related Employment,
     exercise the Option as if he or she continued to be such an officer or
     employee; or

        (ii)   if such person shall cease to be such an officer or employee
     on account of an involuntary termination of employment (other than
     death or Disability) or on account of voluntary termination of
     employment (other than pursuant to Retirement), while holding an
     Option which has not expired and has not been fully exercised, such
     person may before the expiration of thirty (30) days after such
     termination (but in no event after the Option has expired under the
     provisions of Section 6(b) hereof) exercise the Option with respect to
     any shares as to which he or she could have exercised the Option on
     the date he or she terminated employment, except that the Committee
     may in its sole discretion refuse to permit a person who has
     voluntarily terminated his or her employment or who has been
     involuntarily terminated with Cause to exercise any Options after the
     date of termination; or
        (iii)  if such person shall cease to be such an officer or employee
     by reason of death or Disability while holding an Option which has not
     expired and has not been fully exercised, such person (or in the case
     of death, his or her executors, administrators, heirs or distributees,
     as the case may be) may exercise the Option (but in no event after the
     Option has expired under the provisions of Section 6(b) hereof) with
     respect to any shares as to which such person could have exercised the
     Option on the date he or she ceased to be such an officer or employee;
     or
        (iv)   if such person shall cease to be such an officer or employee
     by reason of Retirement while holding an Option which has not expired
     and has not been fully exercised, such person at any time within three
     years of the date he or she ceased to be such an officer or employee
     (but in no event after the Option has expired under the provisions of
     Section 6(b) hereof), may exercise the Option with respect to any
     shares as to which he or she could have exercised the Option on the
     date he or she ceased to be such an officer or employee; or
        (v)    if within 30 days of his termination of employment for any
     reason, any person to whom an Option has been granted shall die or
     become disabled (as may be determined by the Board in its sole and
     absolute discretion) holding an Option which has not been fully
     exercised, he or she or his or her executors, administrators, heirs or
     distributees, as the case may be, and, at any time within one year
     after the date of such event (but in no event after the Option has
     expired under the provisions of Section 6(b) hereof), may exercise the
     Option with respect to any shares as to which such person could have
     exercised his Option at the time of his or her death or disability; or

        (vi)   notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section
     6(f), the Committee shall have the authority, on a case by case basis,
     in its sole and absolute discretion, to extend for a period of up to
     two (2) years following the termination of employment of an optionee
     the period of vesting determined by the Committee prior to the
     Participant's election to receive Options and the period of
     exercisability, provided such extension complies with Section 6(b).

     (g)   If an Option is exercised by a Participant, then, at the
discretion of the committee administering the Company's Stock Option Plan,
the Participant may receive a replacement or reload option under such Stock
Option Plan in accordance with the provisions of such plan.

     (h)   If the exercise price of an Option is paid by delivery of a
number of shares of Restricted Stock, then the Participant shall receive,
in connection with the exercise, an equal number of identically restricted
shares of Stock; the remaining shares of Stock issued upon such exercise
shall contain any applicable restrictions that are set forth in the
Participant's stock option agreement and shall otherwise be unrestricted. 
In such event, the fair market value of shares of Restricted Stock
delivered or withheld, for purposes of this Plan, shall not take into
account the restrictions on such shares.




                                     5






<PAGE>




SECTION 7.  Administration.

     The Plan shall be administered by the Committee which shall be
appointed by the Board and which shall serve at the pleasure of the Board.
     The Committee shall have the power and authority to grant Restricted
Stock or Options to Participants, pursuant to the terms of the Plan.
     In particular, the Committee shall have the authority:
        (i)    to select those employees of the Company and its
     Subsidiaries who are Eligible Employees;

        (ii)   to determine whether and to what extent Restricted Stock or
     Options are to be granted to Participants hereunder;
        (iii)  to determine the number of shares of Stock to be covered by
     each such award granted hereunder;
        (iv)   to determine the terms and conditions, not inconsistent with
     the terms of the Plan, of any award granted hereunder; and
        (v)    to determine the terms and conditions, not inconsistent with
     the terms of the Plan, which shall govern all written instructions
     evidencing the Options and Restricted Stock.

     The Committee shall have the authority to adopt, alter and repeal such
administrative rules, guidelines and practices governing the Plan as it
shall, from time to time, deem advisable; to interpret the terms and
provisions of the Plan and any award issued under the Plan; and to
otherwise supervise the administration of the Plan.  All decisions made by
the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be final and
binding on all persons, including the Company and the Participants.

SECTION 8.  Adjustments upon a Change in Common Stock.
     In the event of any change in the outstanding Stock of the Company by
reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, merger,
consolidation, reorganization, combination or exchange of shares or other
similar event if such change equitably requires an adjustment in the number
or kind of shares that may be issued under the Plan pursuant to Section
4(b), or in the number or kind of shares subject to, or the option price
per share under, any outstanding Option which has been granted to any
Participant, such adjustment shall be made by the Committee and shall be
conclusive and binding for all purposes of the Plan.  In no event shall the
excess of the aggregate fair market value of the Stock subject to the
Options immediately after any substitution, exchange or adjustment over the
aggregate option price for such Stock be more than the excess of the
aggregate fair market value of all of the Stock subject to the Option
immediately before any such substitution, exchange or adjustment over the
aggregate option price of such Stock nor shall the adjusted Option give the
holder thereof any additional benefits he did not have under the old
Option.

SECTION 9.  Amendment and Termination.
     The Plan may be amended or terminated at any time and from time to
time by the Board, but no amendment which increases the aggregate number of
shares of Stock which may be issued pursuant to the Plan (except as
provided in Section 8) shall be effective unless and until the same is
approved by the stockholders of the Company.  Neither an amendment to the
Plan nor the termination of the Plan shall adversely affect any right of
any Participant with respect to any Restricted Stock or Option theretofore
granted without such Participant's written consent.

SECTION 10.  General Provisions.
     (a)   The Committee may require each person purchasing shares
pursuant to an Option to represent and agree with the Company in writing
that such person is acquiring the shares without a view to distribution
thereof.  The certificates for such shares may include any legend which the
Committee deems appropriate to reflect any restriction on transfer.

     All certificates for shares of Stock delivered under the Plan shall be
subject to such stock-transfer orders and other restrictions as the
Committee may deem advisable under the rules, regulations, 







                                     6






<PAGE>



and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock
exchange upon which the Stock is then listed, and any applicable Federal or
state securities law, and the Committee may cause a legend or legends to be
put on any such certificates to make appropriate reference to such
restrictions.
     (b)   Nothing contained in the Plan shall prevent the Board from
adopting other or additional compensation arrangements, subject to
stockholder approval if such approval is required; and such arrangements
may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases. 
The adoption of the Plan shall not confer upon any employee of the Company
or any Subsidiary any right to continued employment with the Company or a
Subsidiary, as the case may be, nor shall it interfere in any way with the
right of the Company or a Subsidiary to terminate the employment of any of
its employees at any time.
     (c)   No member of the Board or the Committee, nor any officer or
employee of the Company acting on behalf of the Board or the Committee,
shall be personally liable for any action, determination, or interpretation
taken or made in good faith with respect to the Plan, and all members of
the Board or the Committee and each and any officer or employee of the
Company acting on their behalf shall, to the extent permitted by law, be
fully indemnified and protected by the Company in respect of any such
action, determination or interpretation.

     (d)   A Participant's rights and interest under the Plan may not be
assigned or transferred in whole or in part either directly or by operation
of law or otherwise (except in the event of a Participant's death)
including, but not by way of limitation, execution, levy, garnishment,
attachment, pledge, bankruptcy or in any other manner and no such right or
interest of any Participant in the Plan shall be subject to any obligation
or liability of such Participant.
     (e)   The Company and its Subsidiaries shall have the right to deduct
from any payment made under the Plan any federal, state or local income or
other taxes required by law to be withheld with respect to such payment. 
It shall be a condition to the obligation of the Company to issue Stock
upon the lapse of restrictions on Restricted Stock or upon exercise of an
Option that the Participant (or any beneficiary or person entitled to
exercise the Option) pay to the Company, upon its demand, such amount as
may be requested by the Company for the purpose of satisfying any liability
to withhold federal, state or local income or other taxes.  If the amount
requested is not paid, the Company may refuse to issue shares.  Unless the
Committee shall in its sole discretion determine otherwise, payment for
taxes required to be withheld may be made in whole or in part by an
election by a Participant, in accordance with rules adopted by the
Committee from time to time (A) to have the Company withhold  Stock
otherwise issuable pursuant to the Plan having a fair market value equal to
such tax liability and/or (B) to tender to the Company shares of Stock
owned by the person exercising the option and acquired more than six months
prior to such tender (excluding shares of Restricted Stock awarded
hereunder) and having a fair market value equal to such tax liability, such
fair market value (in the case of clause (A) or (B)), to be determined in
such reasonable manner as may be provided for from time to time by the
Committee or as may be required in order to comply with or to conform to
the requirements of any applicable or relevant laws or regulations.

SECTION 11.  Effective Date of Plan.
     The Plan shall be effective on the date it is adopted by the Board,
subject to the approval of stockholders.











                                     7



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.22
<SEQUENCE>3
<TEXT>




                                                                Exhibit 10.22





     PERSONAL & CONFIDENTIAL
     -----------------------


     November 15, 1994

     Mr. Michael A. Carpenter
     134 Otter Rock Drive
     Greenwich, Connecticut 06830

     Dear Mike:

     We are delighted that you will be joining The Travelers ("Travelers").  The
     purpose of this letter is to set forth our mutual understanding of the
     terms and conditions of your employment by Travelers.

     1.   Employment.  Travelers hereby employs you, and you hereby accept
          ----------
          employment, upon the terms and conditions specified in this letter
          agreement, effective January 1, 1995.

     2.   Term. Your employment is not for any specific term and may be
          ----
          terminated by you, or by Travelers, at any time, with or without
          cause.

     3.   Compensation.
          ------------

          (a)  Base Salary.  Travelers will pay you a base salary at a rate of
               -----------
               Six Hundred Thousand Dollars ($600,000) per year (the "Base
               Salary"), to be paid in accordance with the customary payroll
               practices of Travelers.

          (b)  Bonus.  In addition to the Base Salary, with respect to  each
               -----
               calendar year of the Employment Term, you will be eligible for a
               bonus, the amount of which will be determined by the Compensation
               Committee of the Board of Directors of Travelers in its
               discretion.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to the
               first calendar year of your employment, the amount of the bonus
               will be not less than Six Hundred Thousand Dollars ($600,000)
               (the "Guaranteed Bonus"); while this is the minimum for the first
               year, there is the opportunity for substantial improvement in
               this amount, depending upon your performance and that of the
               businesses.  In each instance, Travelers will pay you the bonus
               consistent with its customary practices but no later than
               February 1 of the next succeeding calendar year, commencing
               February 1, 1996. 




<PAGE>




Mr. Michael A. Carpenter
Page Two
November 15, 1994


          (c)  The Base Salary and bonus provided for in Paragraphs 3(a) and
               3(b) will be paid in cash and restricted stock in accordance with
               the Travelers Capital Accumulation Plan, as in effect from time
               to time.   

4.   Duties.  You will be engaged as an Executive Vice President of Travelers,
     ------
     with responsibility for business development and planning.  You will also
     serve as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Travelers Life Insurance
     Company and as a member of the Travelers Planning Group.

5.   Extent of Service.  You will devote your attention and energies on a full-
     -----------------
     time basis to the business of Travelers and to the discharge of your duties
     provided that this requirement shall not preclude you from devoting
     ---------
     reasonable periods of time which do not interfere with the performance of
     your duties hereunder required for serving as a director of any
     organization involving no conflict of interest with Travelers or its
     affiliates or engaging in charitable or community activities. You will
     render your services hereunder to the best of your ability and will use
     your best efforts to promote the interests of Travelers.

6.   Working Facilities.  You will be furnished with office facilities and
     ------------------
     services suitable to your position as an Executive Vice President and
     adequate for the performance of your duties.

7.   Expenses.  You will be reimbursed for ordinary and necessary expenses for
     --------
     entertainment, travel and similar items, consistent with such policies as
     may from time to time be established by the Board of Directors.

8.   Insurance and Other Employee Benefits.  You will be entitled to participate
     -------------------------------------
     in any insurance coverage maintained by Travelers for the benefit of all
     employees and in any retirement, profit-sharing, pension, disability, group
     insurance (including medical, dental and life), death benefit or other
     employee benefit programs maintained by Travelers.  You will be entitled to
     vacation in accordance with Travelers' prevailing policy for its senior
     executives and at times consistent with the reasonable needs of the
     business.

9.   Stock Option Grant.  As further consideration for your obligations
     ------------------
     contained herein, Travelers will grant to you, effective as of the first
     day of the Employment Term, an option (the "Option") to purchase One
     Hundred Seventy Five Thousand (175,000) shares of common stock of Travelers
     at the market price at the close of the market on the business day next
     preceding the first day of the Employment Term, as reported in The Wall
     Street Journal, in accordance with the provisions of the Travelers Stock
     Option Plan. 

10.  Confidentiality.  You agree that during and after your Employment Term,
     ---------------
     you will hold confidential all proprietary or confidential information of
     Travelers and that, upon termination of the Employment Term, you will
     return all proprietary or confidential materials of Travelers and not
     retain any copies thereof.



<PAGE>




Mr. Michael A. Carpenter
Page Three
November 15, 1994


11.  Other.  This letter agreement incorporates all of the terms of our offer
     -----
     of employment to you.  Any dispute concerning the provisions of your
     employment shall be resolved by arbitration in accordance with the
     provisions of the Travelers Employment Arbitration Policy, as in effect
     from time to time.

Mike, we are very excited about you joining our organization.  Please indicate
your agreement by signing on the line indicated below.

                                                  Very truly yours,
                                                  THE TRAVELERS INC.

                                                  By: /s/ Charles O. Prince, III
                                                      --------------------------
                                                  Charles O. Prince, III
                                         
          AGREED:
          /s/ Michael A. Carpenter
          ___________________________________
          Michael A. Carpenter

          Dated:  November 22, 1994




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.23.2
<SEQUENCE>4
<TEXT>






                                                            Exhibit 10.23.2

       Amendment to The Travelers Corporation 1982 Stock Option Plan,
                      as adopted by The Travelers Inc.


As used in this Amendment, all capitalized terms shall have the meanings
assigned to them in the Plan, and the Corporation shall mean the surviving
corporation of the merger between Primerica Corporation and The Travelers
Corporation.

     Section 6(h) is hereby amended by adding the following at the end
     thereof:

     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 6, the
     optionee's employment with the Corporation or its subsidiaries shall
     not be deemed to be terminated if the employment with the Corporation
     or any of its subsidiaries ceases by reason of the optionee's engaging
     in a period of Related Employment in lieu of employment with the
     Corporation or any of its subsidiaries.  For the purposes of this Plan,
     Related Employment shall mean the employment of an individual by an
     employer which is neither the Corporation nor a subsidiary of the
     Corporation provided (i) such employment is undertaken by the
     individual at the request of the Corporation or a subsidiary of the
     Corporation, (ii) immediately prior to undertaking such employment,
     the individual was an officer or employee of the Corporation or a
     subsidiary of the Corporation, or was engaged in Related Employment as
     herein defined and (iii) such employment is recognized by the
     Committee, in its sole discretion, as Related Employment for purposes
     of this Plan.  The death or disability of an individual during a
     period of Related Employment as herein defined shall be treated, for
     purposes of this Plan, as if the death or onset of the disability had
     occurred while the individual was an officer or employee of the
     Corporation or a subsidiary of the Corporation.





</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.24.2
<SEQUENCE>5
<TEXT>








                                                            Exhibit 10.24.2

        Amendment to The Travelers Corporation 1988 Stock Incentive 
                   Plan, as adopted by The Travelers Inc.

As used in this Amendment, all capitalized terms shall have the meanings
assigned to them in the Plan, and the Corporation shall mean the surviving
corporation of the merger between Primerica Corporation and The Travelers
Corporation.

1.   Section 5(h) is hereby amended by adding the following at the end
     thereof:

     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 5, the
     optionee's employment with the Corporation or its subsidiaries shall
     not be deemed to be terminated if the employment with the Corporation
     or any of its subsidiaries ceases by reason of the optionee's engaging
     in a period of Related Employment in lieu of employment with the
     Corporation or any of its subsidiaries.  For the purposes of this
     Plan, Related Employment shall mean the employment of an individual by
     an employer which is neither the Corporation nor a subsidiary of the
     Corporation provided (i) such employment is undertaken by the
     individual at the request of the Corporation or a subsidiary of the
     Corporation, (ii) immediately prior to undertaking such employment,
     the individual was an officer or employee of the Corporation or a
     subsidiary of the Corporation, or was engaged in Related Employment as
     herein defined and (iii) such employment is recognized by the
     Committee, in its sole discretion, as Related Employment for purposes
     of this Plan.  The death or disability of an individual during a
     period of Related Employment as herein defined shall be treated, for
     purposes of this Plan, as if the death or onset of the disability had
     occurred while the individual was an officer or employee of the
     Corporation or a subsidiary of the Corporation.

2.   Section 7(i) is hereby amended by adding the following at the end
     thereof:

     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 7, the
     optionee's employment with the Corporation or its subsidiaries shall
     not be deemed to be terminated if the employment ceases by reason of
     the optionee's engaging in a period of Related Employment in lieu of
     employment with the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries.


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.30
<SEQUENCE>6
<TEXT>


                                                                Exhibit 10.30


                                 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

          AGREEMENT made as of the 30th day of December, 1994, by and among
          Smith Barney Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and
          Joseph J. Plumeri II (the "Executive").

          The Board of Directors of the Company desires that  the Company
          continue to employ the Executive, and the Executive is willing to
          serve the Company, on the terms and conditions herein provided.

          In order to effect the foregoing, the parties hereto wish to
          enter into an employment agreement on the terms and conditions
          set forth below.  Accordingly, in consideration of the premises
          and the respective covenants and agreements of the parties herein
          contained, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties
          hereto agree as follows:

          1.   Employment.  The Company hereby agrees to employ the
               ----------
               Executive, and the Executive hereby agrees to serve the
               Company, on the terms and conditions set forth herein.

          2.   Term.  The employment term of this Agreement commenced on
               ----
               July 30, 1994 (the "Commencement Date") and, subject to the
               provisions of Section 10, will end on the third anniversary
               of the Commencement Date unless further extended or sooner
               terminated as hereinafter provided.  

          3.   Position and Duties.  The Executive shall serve as Vice
               --------------------
               Chairman of The Travelers Inc. (or if there shall be a
               corporate reorganization such that The Travelers Inc. is
               replaced by a different ultimate parent company, then of
               that other company("Travelers"), the indirect parent of the
               Company and shall report only to the Chairman of the Board
               of Directors, a Vice Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer
               or the Chief Operating Officer of Travelers.  The Executive
               shall have such responsibilities, duties and authorities
               commensurate with his position as may from time to time be
               assigned to the Executive by the individual to whom the
               Executive shall then report.  During the term of this
               Agreement, the Executive shall devote substantially all his
               time and best efforts during normal business hours to the
               business and affairs of Travelers (including the Company and
               other Travelers' subsidiaries) except for vacations, illness
               or incapacity.  Nothing in this Agreement shall preclude the
               Executive, subject to compliance with such other policies
               and procedures that may be in effect at the  Travelers, from
               devoting reasonable periods required for (i) serving as a
               director or member of a committee of any organization
               involving no conflict of interest with the Company, (ii)
               delivering lectures and fulfilling speaking engagements, and
               (iii) engaging in charitable and community activities
               provided that such activities do not materially interfere
               with the performance of his duties hereunder.

          4.   Place of Performance.  In connection with the Executive's
               --------------------
               employment by the Company, the Executive shall be based at
               the principal executive offices of Travelers in the City of
               New York, except for required travel on business.
















                                                                           





<PAGE>



          5.   Compensation and Related Matters.
               --------------------------------

               (a)  Compensation.  During the period of the Executive's
                    ------------
                    employment hereunder, the Company shall pay to the
                    Executive a base salary  (i) during the period from the
                    Commencement Date through July 30, 1996 at a rate of
                    $950,000 per year and (ii) thereafter during the
                    employment term at a rate to be determined within the
                    discretion of the Company.  In addition, the Executive
                    shall be entitled to consideration for an annual
                    discretionary bonus under the Travelers Inc. Executive
                    Performance Compensation Plan.  Notwithstanding the
                    foregoing, in the event Sanford I. Weill is, at any
                    time during the employment term, no longer the Chief
                    Executive Officer of Travelers, then, during any
                    remaining portion of the employment term, the
                    compensation payable to the Executive, in addition to
                    the other items specified herein, shall be,  as
                    specified on Attachment A hereto (or, in the event of a
                    termination of employment,  in accordance with the
                    provisions of Section 7), including without limitation,
                    the payment of any Additional Payments specified in
                    Attachments A or B hereto for the calendar year in
                    which such event occurs or the prior calendar year if
                    discretionary bonuses for senior executives of
                    Travelers for the applicable calendar year in question
                    have not been determined as of the date that Mr. Weill
                    is no longer the Chief Executive Officer of Travelers. 
                    The compensation shall be paid in accordance with the
                    Company's normal payroll practices, as in effect from
                    time to time and any bonus for 1997 shall, subject to
                    the other provisions of this Agreement, be paid when
                    1997 bonuses are generally paid by the Company
                    notwithstanding whether or not Executive is then
                    employed by the Company.

               (b)  Expenses.  During the period of the Executive's
                    --------
                    employment hereunder, the Executive shall be entitled
                    to receive prompt reimbursement for all reasonable and
                    customary expenses incurred by the Executive in
                    performing services hereunder, including all expenses
                    of travel and living expenses while away from home on
                    business, provided that such expenses are incurred and
                    accounted for in accordance with the policies and
                    procedures established by the Company.

               (c)  Other Benefits.  The Executive shall be entitled to
                    --------------
                    participate in all of the employee benefit plans and
                    arrangements generally available to senior executives
                    of Travelers (including without limitation each
                    retirement plan, supplemental and excess retirement
                    plans, annual and long-term incentive compensation
                    plans, stock option and purchase plans, group life
                    insurance (presently group universal life insurance)
                    and accident plan, medical and dental insurance plans,
                    financial planning and disability plan).  The Executive
                    shall participate in the Travelers Supplemental
                    Retirement Plan through maintenance of the existing
                    frozen benefit and, if and to the extent that it shall
                    be reopened to participation generally by senior
                    officers of the Company or of Travelers, accrual of
                    future benefits, all in accordance with the plan
                    provisions as in effect from time to time except that
                    the Executive's service at Shearson will be counted for
                    the purpose of vesting only.   During the period of the
                    Executive's employment hereunder, the Company will
                    reimburse the Executive for annual premium to purchase
                    a term life insurance policy from Primerica Financial
                    Services ("PFS") carrying a death benefit of up to
                    $1,500,000.






                                          2
          




<PAGE>





               (d)  Capital Accumulation Plan.  The Executive shall
                    --------------------------
                    participate in the Travelers Capital Accumulation Plan
                    ("CAP"), and any successor or replacement plan
                    generally applicable to senior executives of the
                    Company (provided that (i) the  deferred  compensation
                    specified in Section 5 (i) hereof and (ii) any amounts
                    payable under Section 7 at or following a termination
                    of employment, shall not be subject to CAP).   The
                    provisions of such plan, as in effect from time to
                    time, shall govern the participation by the Executive
                    except as provided in Attachment C hereto.

               (e)  Vacations.  The Executive shall be entitled to no less
                    ---------
                    than the number of vacation days in each calendar year
                    determined in accordance with the Company's vacation
                    policy.  The Executive shall also be entitled to all
                    paid holidays and personal days given by the Company to
                    its executives.

               (f)  Services Furnished.  The Company shall cause Travelers
                    ------------------
                    to furnish the Executive with office space, secretarial
                    assistance and such other facilities and services as
                    shall be suitable to the Executive's position and
                    adequate for the performance of his duties as set forth
                    in Section 3 hereof.

               (g)  Stock Option.  As of the date hereof, the Executive
                    ------------
                    holds options to purchase 300,000 shares of common
                    stock of Travelers pursuant to the provisions of the
                    Travelers Stock Option Plan, including 100,00 shares
                    granted on September 28, 1994 (the 200,000 shares
                    granted prior to September 28, 1994 being referred to
                    herein as the "Original Grant").   In the event of (i)
                    the termination of this Agreement on account of the
                    death or disability of the Executive or by the Company
                    without Cause or by the Executive for Good Reason, the
                    Executive shall be entitled to two (2) years of
                    additional vesting and exercise of  all such stock
                    options, or any longer periods of vesting and exercise
                    provided for in the Stock Option Plan, or (ii) the
                    termination of this Agreement by the Executive but
                    without Good Reason, the Executive shall be entitled to
                    the remainder (if any) of a two (2) year period of
                    vesting and exercise for the Original Grant ending on
                    July 30, 1996, in both cases subject to the other
                    provisions of the Stock Option Plan.

               (h)  The Executive shall be entitled to have, at the
                    Company's expense, a car and driver at the level
                    similar to other senior executives of  Travelers.

               (i)  Deferred Compensation
                    ---------------------

                    (A) The Executive shall receive a deferred compensation
                    payment hereunder in the amount set forth in (B) below. 
                    Such payment shall be made in a lump sum thirty (30)
                    days after  the Executive ceases to be employed by the
                    Company or its affiliates for any reason whatsoever,
                    including death, disability, termination by the Company
                    with or without Cause or termination by the Executive
                    with or without Good Reason (but each portion of such
                    lump sum shall not be payable earlier than the date
                    from which "earnings" are to be measured).  Such
                    payments shall be made without counterclaims, offset or
                    setoff (other than legally required withholding).









                                          3
          




<PAGE>



          
                    (B)  The deferred compensation amount shall be the sum
                    of the following amounts:
                         (I)   $2,000,000 with "earnings" from July 30, 1996;
                         (ii)  $2,000,000 with "earnings" from July 30,
                         1997; and
                         (iii) provided the Executive has not voluntarily
                         terminated employment prior to March 1, 1996
                         (other than for Good Reason or death) and
                         provided the Executive has not been
                         involuntarily terminated for Cause prior to
                         March 1, 1996, $1,400,000 with "earnings"
                         from July 30, 1997.
                    (C)  Earnings shall be measured by the published ninety
                         (90) day T bill rate as in effect at the beginning
                         of each calendar quarter during the relevant period
                         and shall be compounded quarterly.

          6.   Termination.  The Executive's employment hereunder may be
               -----------
               terminated under the following circumstances:

               a)   Death.  The Executive's employment hereunder shall
                    -----
                    terminate upon his death.

               b)   Disability.  If, as a result of the Executive's
                    ----------
                    incapacity due to physical or mental illness, the
                    Executive shall have been absent from his duties
                    hereunder on a full-time basis for the entire period of
                    six (6) consecutive months, and within thirty (30) days
                    after written notice of termination is given (which may
                    occur before or after the end of such six (6) months
                    period) shall not have returned to the performance of
                    his duties hereunder on a full-time basis, the Company
                    may terminate the Executive's employment hereunder.

               (c)  Cause.  The Company may terminate the Executive's
                    -----
                    employment hereunder for Cause.  For purposes of this
                    Agreement, the Company shall have "Cause" to terminate
                    the Executive's employment hereunder upon the
                    Executive's willful refusal to perform his properly
                    assigned duties, or if the Executive shall be convicted
                    of or plead guilty or nolo contendre to conduct
                    constituting a felony, or in the event of a material
                    violation of Section 10(a) of this Agreement.  Such
                    termination for reason of the Executive's willful
                    refusal to perform his duties shall only be effective
                    upon the Company's written notice of termination to the
                    Executive and the Executive's failure within ten (10)
                    days following such notice to cure the breach specified
                    in such notice.

               (d)  Any termination of the Executive's employment by the
                    Company or by the Executive (other than termination
                    pursuant to subsection (a) hereof) shall be
                    communicated by written Notice of Termination to the
                    other party hereto in accordance with Section 12.  For
                    purposes of this Agreement, a "Notice of Termination"
                    shall mean a notice which shall indicate the specific
                    termination provision in this Agreement relied upon and
                    shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and
                    circumstances claimed to provide a basis for
                    termination of the Executive's employment under the
                    provision so indicated.

               (e)  "Date of Termination" shall mean (i) if the Executive's
                    employment is terminated by his death, the date of his
                    death, (ii) if the Executive's employment is terminated
                    pursuant to subsection









                                          4
          




<PAGE>



                    (b) above, the later to expire of thirty (30) days
                    after Notice of Termination is given pursuant to
                    subsection (b) above or the six (6) month disability
                    period (provided that the Executive shall not have
                    returned to the performance of his duties on a full-
                    time basis prior to expiration of the thirty (30) day
                    notice period or the six (6) month disability period,
                    whichever shall expire later) (iii) if the Executive's
                    employment is terminated pursuant to subsection (c)
                    above, the date specified in the Notice of Termination,
                    and (iv) if the Executive's employment is terminated
                    for any other reason, the date specified in the Notice
                    of Termination (or, if no date is so specified, on the
                    date on which a Notice of Termination is given).

               (f)  Good Reason.  The Executive may terminate his
                    -----------
                    employment hereunder for Good Reason.  For purposes of
                    this Agreement, the Executive shall have "Good Reason"
                    to terminate his employment if the Company shall
                    materially breach its obligations under this Agreement
                    as to position, reporting relationship,
                    responsibilities, duties, authority or place of
                    performance, as specified in Sections 3 and 4.   Such
                    termination for Good Reason shall only be effective
                    upon the Executive's written notice of termination to
                    the Company and the Company's failure within ten (10)
                    days following such notice to cure the breach specified
                    in such notice.

               (g)  The Executive may terminate his employment hereunder
                    without Good Reason.  Such termination shall only be
                    effective upon receipt of Executive's written notice of
                    termination to the Company.  In such event, the
                    Company's obligations with regard to compensation shall
                    be as provided in Section 7.  Except as otherwise
                    provided for herein, the provisions of the Stock Option
                    Plan, the Capital Accumulation Plan and other employee
                    plans will govern as to participation in such plans. 
                    Such a termination shall not affect the Executive's
                    other obligations under this Agreement, including
                    without limitation Section 10.

               (h)  In the event the Executive shall terminate his
                    employment with or without Good Reason or if the
                    Company shall terminate the Executive's employment
                    other than for Cause, the Company shall furnish to the
                    Executive appropriate office space, his then
                    administrative assistant (if employed by the Company or
                    Travelers or, if not, other appropriate secretarial
                    assistance) and his existing car and driver until the
                    earlier of his commencing other employment or six (6)
                    months after such date of termination.

          7.   Severance Payments Upon Termination.  
               -----------------------------------

               (a)  During any period that the Executive fails to perform
                    his duties hereunder as a result of incapacity due to
                    physical or mental illness ("disability period"), the
                    Executive shall continue to receive his full base
                    salary at the rate then in effect until his employment
                    is terminated pursuant to Section 6(b) hereof (provided
                    that payments so made to the Executive during the
                    disability period shall be reduced by the sum of the
                    amounts, if any, payable to the Executive at or prior
                    to the time of any such payment under disability
                    benefit plans of the Company and which amounts were not
                    previously applied to reduce any such payment). 

                    If the Executive's employment is terminated (i) by the
                    Executive but not for Good Reason and with an effective
                    date on or prior to February 29, 1996, or (ii) by the
                    Company for




                                          5
          




<PAGE>



                    Cause, the Company shall pay to the Executive the
                    amounts, if any, to be paid following such date of
                    termination, as set forth in Attachment B, including,
                    without limitation, the payment of any Additional
                    Payments specified therein for the calendar year in
                    which such date of termination occurs or the prior
                    calendar year  if discretionary bonuses for senior
                    executives of Travelers for the applicable calendar
                    year in question have not been determined as of such
                    date of termination.  In addition, Executive shall
                    retain his rights, if any, under any deferred
                    compensation (including under Section 5 (i) hereof )or
                    other benefit plans in which he participates as
                    specifically provided herein, or, if not otherwise
                    specifically provided for in this Agreement, as
                    provided in such plan and any other unpaid amounts
                    required to be paid hereunder and the Company shall
                    have no further obligations to the Executive under this
                    Agreement.  

               (b)  If the Executive's employment is terminated on account
                    of disability or by his death, the Company shall pay to
                    the Executive or his estate or as may be directed by
                    the legal representatives of such estate, the amounts,
                    if any, to be paid following such date of termination,
                    as set forth in Attachment A, including, without
                    limitation, the payment of any Additional Payments
                    specified therein for the calendar year in which such
                    date of termination occurs or the prior calendar year
                    if discretionary bonuses for senior executives of
                    Travelers for the applicable calendar year in question
                    have not been determined as of such date of
                    termination. In addition, the Executive shall retain
                    his rights, if any, under any deferred compensation
                    (including under Section 5 (i) hereof)  or other
                    benefit plans in which he participates as specifically
                    provided herein or, if not otherwise specifically
                    provided for in this Agreement, as provided in such
                    plan and any other unpaid amounts required to be paid
                    hereunder and the Company shall have no further
                    commitments under this Agreement.

               (c)  [Intentionally Omitted].

               (d)  If the Executive's employment is terminated (i) by the
                    Company other than for Cause (ii) by  the Executive for
                    Good Reason, or (iii) by the Executive but not for Good
                    Reason and with an effective date after February 29,
                    1996 then the Company shall pay the Executive the
                    amounts, if any, to be paid following such date of
                    termination, as set forth in Attachment A (provided,
                    that in the event of a termination under clause (iii)
                    of this sentence, the payment of base salary  shall be
                    made for the remaining employment term in accordance
                    with Attachment B rather than in accordance with
                    Attachment A or Section 5(a)),  including, without
                    limitation, the payment of any Additional Payments
                    specified therein for the calendar year in which such
                    date of termination occurs or the prior calendar year
                    if discretionary bonuses for senior executives of
                    Travelers for the applicable calendar year in question
                    have not been determined as of such date of
                    termination.  In addition, the Executive shall retain
                    his rights, if any, under any deferred compensation
                    (including under Section 5 (i) hereof) or other benefit
                    plans in which he participates as specifically provided
                    herein or, if not otherwise specifically provided for
                    in this Agreement, as provided in such plan  and any
                    other unpaid amounts required to be paid hereunder and
                    the Company shall have no further obligations to the
                    Executive under this Agreement.





                                          6
          




<PAGE>




           
               (e)  The provisions of this Section 7 (together with (i) the
                    provisions of any vacation, deferred compensation or
                    other benefit plans in which he participates and which
                    are not otherwise specifically provided for in this
                    Agreement, (ii) the provisions of the CAP and Stock
                    Option Plans as in effect from time to time and as
                    specifically provided for in this Agreement in the
                    event of a termination and (iii) the continuation of
                    services provision set forth in Section 6(h)) are the
                    exclusive rights of the Executive regarding a severance
                    or termination occurring prior to expiration of the
                    employment term.  The rights of the Executive regarding
                    a severance or termination occurring after expiration
                    of the employment term shall be governed exclusively by
                    the Company's regular severance policies as in effect
                    at such time, except as otherwise specifically provided
                    for herein.

          8.   Mitigation.  The Executive shall not be required to mitigate
               ----------
               amounts payable pursuant to Section 7 hereof by seeking
               other employment or otherwise and any amounts received from
               other employment shall not reduce any amounts due under
               Section 7.
            
          9.   [Intentionally Omitted]

          10.  Confidentiality and Non-Solicitation.
               ------------------------------------

               (a)  Confidentiality.  During the employment term of this
                    ---------------
                    Agreement and thereafter, the Executive will not,
                    without the written consent of the Company, make use of
                    or divulge to any person, firm or corporation, any
                    trade or business secret which may be disclosed to him
                    by the Company or Travelers or as a result of his
                    employment with the Company hereunder or his position
                    with Travelers excepting only such information which
                    shall be made public without the fault of the Executive
                    and such information as the Executive shall be
                    obligated to disclose pursuant to legal process.  In
                    addition, the foregoing provision shall not impair the
                    ability of the Executive to exercise his good faith
                    judgment as to disclosures in connection with his
                    duties hereunder.    

               (b)  Non-Solicitation.  In the event the Executive's
                    ----------------
                    employment hereunder is terminated for any reason the
                    Executive (i) shall not be personally involved,
                    directly or indirectly, in hiring any employee of the
                    Company or Travelers or any of their subsidiaries who
                    either is a financial consultant (or similar position)
                    for the Company or whose annual compensation is in
                    excess of $100,000 or any independent representative of
                    the Company or Travelers or any of its subsidiaries who
                    is intended to act as a full-time representative (e.g.,
                    at Primerica Financial Services,  a sales force
                    designation of RVP or  higher ) (any of the foregoing
                    being a "Protected Person") unless the Company or
                    Travelers shall agree in writing to such hiring, and
                    (ii) shall not be personally involved, directly or
                    indirectly, in soliciting any Protected Person to leave
                    their employment or terminate their relationship (it
                    being agreed that simply responding to a request for a
                    reference will not be deemed direct or indirect
                    solicitation), in either case until the latest to occur
                    of the following:

                    _    one year after termination of employment (but not
                         longer than July 30, 1998).






                                          7
          




<PAGE>





                    _    the date the last payment of base salary or bonus
                         actually payable to the Executive is due and
                         payable under the provisions of Section 7.

                    _    the later of the date the last payment actually
                         payable to the Executive is due and payable under
                         Attachment B and July 30, 1997.

                    _    in the event the Executive shall voluntarily
                         terminate his employment but without Good Reason,
                         July 30, 1996 (notwithstanding the fact that such
                         date may be more than one year after such
                         termination of employment).

               (c)  The provisions of this Section 10 shall survive the
                    termination, for any reason, or expiration of this
                    Agreement.

          11.  Indemnification.  Both during and after the employment term,
               ---------------
               the Company shall indemnify the Executive to the full extent
               permitted by law for all expenses, costs, liabilities and
               legal fees which the Executive may incur by reason of
               entering into this Agreement and in the discharge of all his
               duties hereunder, other than for any such expenses, costs,
               liabilities or legal fees incurred resulting from the
               Executive's bad faith or gross negligence.  The provisions
               of this Section shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of,
               any other rights of indemnification available to the
               Executive and shall apply to the Executive when serving in
               other capacities at the written request of the Company. 
               Legal fees covered by this indemnification shall be advanced
               as incurred.  The provisions of this Section 11 shall
               survive the termination, for any reason, or expiration of
               this Agreement.

          12.  Notice.  For the purposes of this Agreement, notices,
               ------
               demands and all other communications provided for in this
               Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have
               been duly given when delivered or (unless otherwise
               specified) mailed by United States certified or registered
               mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed
               as follows:

               If to the Executive:
               Joseph J. Plumeri II
               1461 Martine Avenue
               Scotch Plains, New Jersey 07076

               With a copy to:

               Michael S. Sirkin, Esq.
               Proskauer Rose Goetz & Mendelsohn
               1585 Broadway
               New York, New York 10036

               If to the Company:

               333 West 34th Street
               New York, New York  10001















                                          8
          




<PAGE>




               Attention:  General Counsel 

               with a copy to:

               The Travelers Inc. 
               65 East 55th Street
               New York, New York 10022
               Attention:  General Counsel 

               or to such other address either party may have furnished to
               the other in writing in accordance herewith, except that
               notices of change of address shall be effective only upon
               receipt.

          13.  Miscellaneous.  No provision of this Agreement may be
               -------------
               modified, waived or discharged unless such waiver,
               modification or discharge is agreed to in writing and 
               signed by the Executive and a duly authorized officer of the
               Company.  No waiver by either party hereto at any time of
               any breach of the other party hereto of, or compliance with,
               any condition or provision of this Agreement to be performed
               by such other party shall be deemed a waiver of similar or
               dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same or at any
               prior or subsequent time. This Agreement shall not be
               assignable by the Executive.  This Agreement shall not be
               assignable by the Company except in connection with the sale
               of all or  substantially all of the retail brokerage
               business of the Company, in which case it shall be assumed
               by Travelers, all references to the Company shall be deemed
               thereafter to be references to Travelers and the obligations
               of the Company hereunder shall cease; thereafter it shall
               not be assignable by Travelers except in connection with the
               sale of all or substantially all of the assets of Travelers. 
               This Agreement shall be binding on the successors and
               permitted assigns of the Company.  The validity,
               interpretation, construction and performance of this
               Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of
               Delaware without regard to its conflicts of law principles. 
               In the event the Company breaches this Agreement by non-
               payment of any amounts due to the Executive hereunder, the
               Executive shall be entitled to recover his costs of
               collection.  Whenever in this Agreement reference is made to
               a pro rata portion of an amount, it shall be calculated by
               multiplying an annual amount by a fraction, the numerator of
               which is the number of elapsed days in a period (e.g., the
               number of days in a calendar year prior to a termination of
               employment) and the denominator of which is 365.

          14.  Validity.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
               --------
               provision or provisions of this Agreement shall not affect
               the validity or enforceability of any other provision of
               this Agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect.

          15.  Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed in one or more
               ------------
               counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an
               original but all of which together will constitute one and
               the same instrument.

          16.  Arbitration.  Any controversy or claim arising out of or
               -----------
               relating to this Agreement, whether arising before or after
               the expiration or other termination of this Agreement, shall
               be settled by arbitration in New York City in accordance
               with the commercial rules of the American Arbitration
               Association, except to the extent specifically described in
               a document signed by both of the parties hereto and










                                          9
          




<PAGE>



               which specifically refers to this Section.  Any decision by
               the arbitrators shall be final and binding on the parties
               and may be entered into in any court of competent
               jurisdiction.
           
          17.  Entire Agreement.  This Agreement sets forth the entire
               ----------------
               agreement of the parties hereto in respect of the subject
               matter contained herein and supersedes all prior agreements,
               promises, covenants, arrangements, communications,
               representations or warranties, whether oral or written,
               express or implied, by any officer, employee or
               representative of either party hereto, including without
               limitation the prior employment agreements between the
               parties dated as of July 30, 1993 and July 30, 1994, except
               to the extent specifically described in a document signed by
               both of the parties hereto and which specifically refers to
               this Section.


                                          10
          




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-11.01
<SEQUENCE>7
<TEXT>




<TABLE><CAPTION>

                                                                                           Exhibit 11.01
                                   The Travelers Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                    Computation of Earnings Per Share
                               (In millions, except for per share amounts)

                                                                     Year ended December 31,         
                                                            -----------------------------------------

                                                            1994             1993            1992 
                                                            ----             ----            ----
<S>                                                       <C>               <C>            <C>
Earnings:
  Net Income                                              $1,326             $916            $728 
  Preferred dividends - series A                             (24)             (24)            (10)
  Preferred dividends - series B                              (7)              (4)              - 
  Preferred dividends - series C                             (17)               -               - 
  Preferred dividends - series D                             (35)               -               - 
                                                           -----             ----            ----
  Income applicable to common stock                        1,243              888             718 

  Interest expense (through the date of conversion) related
    to 4 1/2% Eurodollar Convertible Subordinated Debentures,
    net of applicable income taxes                             -                -               1 
  Dilution due to assumed exercise of options of subsidiary    -                -              (2)
                                                           -----             ----            ----
                                                          $1,243            $ 888           $ 717 
                                                           =====             ====            ====

Average shares:
  Common                                                     315              229             215 
  Assumed conversion of 4 1/2% Eurodollar Convertible 
     Subordinated Debentures                                   -                -               1 
  Assumed exercise of dilutive stock options                   3                5               4 
  Incremental shares - Capital Accumulation Plan               4                4               3 
                                                           -----             ----            ----
                                                             322              238             223 
                                                           =====             ====            ====

  Earnings Per Share                                      $ 3.86            $3.74           $3.22 
                                                           =====             ====            ====

</TABLE>

Earnings per common share is computed after recognition of preferred stock 
dividend requirements and is based on the weighted average number of shares
outstanding during the period after consideration of the dilutive effect of 
common stock warrants and stock options and the incremental shares assumed 
issued under the Capital Accumulation Plan and other restricted stock plans.  
Fully diluted earnings per common share, assuming conversion of all outstanding
convertible notes and debentures, the maximum dilutive effect of common stock 
equivalents and conversion of the 5.5% convertible preferred stock, has not been
presented because the effects are not material.  The fully diluted earnings per 
common share computation for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992 
would entail adding the number of shares issuable on conversion of the other 
debentures (zero and 2 million and 4 million shares, respectively), the 
additional common stock equivalents (2 million, zero and 1 million shares 
respectively) and the assumed conversion of the 5.5% convertible preferred 
stock (3 million, 2 million, and zero shares, respectively) to the number of 
shares included in the earnings per common share calculation (resulting in a 
total of 327 million, and 242 million and 228 million shares, respectively) 
and eliminating the after-tax interest expense related to the conversion of 
other debentures (zero, $3 million and $7 million, respectively) and the 
elimination of the 5.5% convertible preferred stock dividends ($7 million, 
$3 million, and zero, respectively). 

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-12.01
<SEQUENCE>8
<TEXT>

<TABLE><CAPTION>
                                                                                                                   EXHIBIT 12.01
                                               The Travelers Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                        Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges

                                                   ALL COMPANIES CONSOLIDATED
                                                    (In millions of dollars)

                                                                  Year ended December 31,
                                                                  -----------------------

                                           1994                1993                1992                 1991              1990 
                                           ----                ----                ----                 ----              -----
<S>                                     <C>                <C>                  <C>                  <C>                <C>
Income from continuing operations
  before income taxes, minority
  interests and cumulative effect of
  changes in accounting principle . .    $2,149              $1,523              $1,188               $  791             $  602

Elimination of undistributed
  equity earnings . . . . . . . . . .         -               (116)                (26)                  (5)                (3)
Pre-tax minority interest . . . . . .         -                (32)                   -                    -                  -

Add:
  Interest  . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1,284                 707                 674                  876              1,027
  Interest portion of rentals . . . .       134                  61                  38                   46                 43
                                          -----               -----               -----                -----              -----

Income available for fixed charges  .    $3,567              $2,143              $1,874               $1,708             $1,669
                                          =====               =====               =====                =====              =====
Fixed charges:
  Interest  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $1,284              $  707              $  674                 $876             $1,027
  Interest portion of rentals . . . .       134                  61                  38                   46                 43
                                          -----               -----               -----                -----              -----

Fixed charges . . . . . . . . . . . .    $1,418              $  768              $  712               $  922             $1,070
                                          =====               =====               =====                =====              =====

Ratio of earnings to fixed charges         2.52x               2.79x               2.63x                1.85x              1.56x
                                           ====                ====                ====                 ====               ====

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.01
<SEQUENCE>9
<TEXT>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                            Exhibit 13.01



                                      The Travelers Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                 FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
                            (In millions of dollars, except per share amounts)

                                            1994        1993         1992          1991         1990  
                                          --------    --------    --------      --------     --------
<S>                                       <C>          <C>          <C>         <C>          <C>
Year Ended December 31, (1)
-----------------------
Total revenues (2)                        $ 18,465    $  6,797      $ 5,125     $  6,608     $ 6,194

After-tax gains from sale
   of subsidiaries and affiliates         $     88    $      8      $   135     $     43     $    10

Income before cumulative effect of
  changes in accounting principles        $  1,326    $    951      $   756     $    479     $   373

Net Income (3)                            $  1,326    $    916      $   728     $    479     $   373

Return on average common equity (4)          15.6%       18.4%        20.6%        15.7%       13.7%

December 31,  (1)
-------------
Total assets                              $115,297    $101,290      $24,151     $ 21,561     $19,689
Long-term debt                            $  7,075    $  6,991      $ 3,951     $  4,327     $ 3,456
Stockholders' equity (5)                  $  8,640       9,326      $ 4,229     $  3,280     $ 2,859

Per common share data:
---------------------
Income before cumulative effect of
  changes in accounting principles        $   3.86    $   3.88      $  3.34     $   2.14     $  1.64
Net income                                $   3.86    $   3.74      $  3.22     $   2.14     $  1.64
Dividends per common share                $  0.575    $  0.490      $ 0.363     $  0.225     $ 0.180
Book value per common share               $  24.77    $  26.06      $ 17.70     $  15.10     $ 13.20

Other data:
-----------
Average number of common shares 
  and equivalents (millions)                 322.0       237.8        222.8        226.5       231.8
Year-end common shares 
  outstanding (millions)                     316.5       327.1        222.0        217.2       216.5
Number of full-time employees               52,000      60,000       16,000       15,800      23,600
</TABLE>

          (1)   The Travelers Inc. (the Company) was formerly Primerica
                Corporation.   Results of operations prior to 1994
                exclude the amounts of The Travelers Insurance Group
                Inc. except that results for 1993 include the Company's
                equity in earnings  relating to the 27%  interest
                purchased in December 1992.  Results of operations
                include amounts related to the Shearson Businesses from
                July 31, 1993, the date of acquisition.  Data relating
                to financial position for the years prior to 1993
                exclude amounts for The Travelers Insurance Group Inc.
                and the Shearson Businesses.  (see Note 1 of Notes to
                Consolidated Financial Statements).

          (2)   Revenues for 1991 and 1990 include those of Fingerhut
                Companies, Inc. (Fingerhut), which had been carried as a
                consolidated subsidiary  (see Note 3  of Notes to
                Consolidated Financial Statements).

          (3)   See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                for  information  regarding  changes in  accounting
                principles in 1993 and 1992.

          (4)   The return on average common stockholders' equity is
                calculated using income before cumulative effect of
                changes in accounting principles.

          (5)   Stockholders' equity at December 31, 1994 reflects $1.3
                billion of net unrealized losses on investment
                securities pursuant to the adoption of FAS No. 115 in
                1994 (See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
                Statements).







<PAGE>

<TABLE>
                                      The Travelers Inc. and Subsidiaries
                     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION and ANALYSIS of FINANCIAL CONDITION
                                            and RESULTS of OPERATIONS

<CAPTION>
           Consolidated Results of Operations
                                                                                             Year Ended December 31,
                                                                                            -------------------------------
             (In millions, except per share amounts)                                           1994         1993       1992
             --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                                         <C>           <C>        <C>
             Revenues                                                                       $18,465       $6,797     $5,125
                                                                                             ======        =====      =====
             Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles            $ 1,326         $951       $756
                                                                                             ======          ===        ===
             Net income                                                                     $ 1,326         $916       $728
                                                                                             ======          ===        ===
             Earnings per share 
               Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles            $3.86        $3.88      $3.34
                                                                                               ====         ====       ====
               Net income                                                                     $3.86        $3.74      $3.22
                                                                                               ====         ====       ====
             Weighted average number of common shares outstanding and
               common stock equivalents (millions)                                            322.0        237.8      222.8
                                                                                              =====        =====      =====
             --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

       The Travelers Merger
       On December 31, 1993, Primerica Corporation (Primerica) acquired the
       approximately 73% it did not already own of The Travelers Corporation
       (old Travelers), one of the largest multi-line insurance companies in
       the United States.  The acquisition was effected by means of a merger
       of old Travelers into Primerica and, concurrently with the merger,
       Primerica changed its name to The Travelers Inc. which, together with
       its subsidiaries, is hereinafter referred to as the Company.  The old
       Travelers businesses acquired are hereinafter referred to as old
       Travelers or The Travelers Insurance Group.  The acquisition has been
       accounted for as a purchase, and accordingly, the results of operations
       for periods prior to December 31, 1993 do not include those of old
       Travelers other than for the equity in earnings for 1993 related to the
       27% previously owned.  (See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
       Statements.)

       The Shearson Acquisition
       On July 31, 1993, the Company acquired the domestic retail brokerage
       and asset management businesses (the Shearson Businesses) of Shearson
       Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., an American Express Company (American
       Express) subsidiary.  The businesses acquired were combined with the
       operations of Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co. Incorporated, and the
       combined firm has been named Smith Barney Inc. which is a subsidiary of
       Smith Barney Holdings Inc. (Smith Barney).  The acquisition was
       accounted for under the purchase method of accounting, and the
       consolidated financial statements include the results of the Shearson
       Businesses from the date of acquisition.  (See Note 1 of Notes to
       Consolidated Financial Statements.) 

       Results of Operations

       Results of operations for 1994 reflect the full year impact of both the
       Travelers Merger and the Shearson Acquisition.  Results of operations
       for 1993 include earnings from the Shearson Businesses for five months
       and reflect the equity in the earnings relating to the Company's 27%
       interest in old Travelers.  Included in income before cumulative effect
       of changes in accounting principles for the years ended December 31,
       1994, 1993 and 1992 are net after-tax gains of $5 million, $52 million
       and $163 million, respectively, as follows:

       1994
       ----
       -    $39 million gain on the sale of American Capital Management &
            Research Inc. to Van Kampen Merritt Companies in December for $430
            million;
       -    $21 million gain on the sale of Smith Barney's interest in HG Asia
            Holdings Ltd. for $55 million;
       -    $19 million gain on the sale of Bankers and Shippers Insurance
            Company, a subsidiary of The Travelers Indemnity Company, to
            Integon Corporation in October for $142 million;
       -    $9 million gain on the sale of the group dental insurance business
            of The Travelers Insurance Company (TIC) to Metropolitan Life
            Insurance Company (in conjunction with the sale of the group life
            business completed in January 1995) for $52 million; and 
       -    $83 million of reported investment portfolio losses.






<PAGE>





       1993
       ----
       -    a $65 million provision for one-time expenses related to the
            acquisition of the Shearson Businesses;  
       -    $8 million gain on the sale of stock of subsidiaries and
            affiliates; and
       -    $109 million of reported investment portfolio gains.

       1992
       ----
       -    $116 million gain on the sale of stock of subsidiaries and
            affiliates; and
       -    reported investment portfolio gains of $47 million, including $19
            million from the sale of the common stock investment in Musicland
            Stores Corporation (Musicland).

       Excluding these items, income before cumulative effect of changes in
       accounting principles for 1994 increased $422 million to $1.321
       billion, or 47%, over 1993, reflecting primarily an earnings increase
       at Consumer Finance due to an increase in receivables outstanding, an
       increase in Primerica Financial Services' earnings as a result of
       improvements in life sales and persistency as well as increases in
       $.M.A.R.T. and S.A.F.E. Loans; and the inclusion of the earnings from
       the additional 73% investment in The Travelers Insurance Group. 

       On the same basis, income before cumulative effect of changes in
       accounting principles for 1993 increased by $306 million, or 52%, over
       1992, reflecting primarily increased operating earnings from the
       combined Smith Barney unit, earnings from the 27% investment in old
       Travelers and improved performance at Consumer Finance Services.

       The most significant factors in 1992's earnings growth over 1991 were
       increases in the contributions of Smith Barney and Consumer Finance
       Services as well as reduced corporate treasury expense from lower debt
       and interest rate levels.

       Included in net income for 1993 is an after-tax charge of $18 million
       resulting from the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting
       Standards (FAS) No. 112, "Employers' Accounting for Postemployment
       Benefits," and an after-tax charge of $17 million resulting from the
       adoption of FAS No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement
       Benefits Other Than Pensions."  Included in net income for 1992 is an
       after-tax charge of $28 million resulting from the adoption of FAS No.
       109, "Accounting for Income Taxes."

       The following discussion presents in more detail each segment's
       operating performance and net income before the effects of changes in
       accounting principles, which were not material to any of the business
       segments.

       Investment Services
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            Year Ended December 31,
                                                         ------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                               1994                    1993                   1992
                                                         ------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                      Net                     Net                   Net
              (millions)                                 Revenues    Income      Revenues   Income     Revenues    Income
             --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                     <C>          <C>        <C>         <C>       <C>          <C>
              Smith Barney (1)                          $5,534       $390       $3,371      $306      $1,677       $157

              Mutual funds and asset management               
                and other                                  156         32          153        30         145         34
             --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Total Investment Services                 $5,690       $422       $3,524      $336      $1,822       $191
             ==============================================================================================================
</TABLE>

       (1)  Net income for 1994 includes a $21 after-tax gain from the sale of
            the interest in HG Asia and net income for 1993 includes a $65
            after-tax provision for merger-related costs. 







                                          2




<PAGE>





       The Company's Investment Services segment includes Smith Barney -
       investment banking and securities brokerage; a limited partnership
       interest in RCM Capital Management (RCM) - asset management; and
       American Capital Management & Research, Inc. (American Capital) -
       mutual funds, through its date of sale in December 1994. 

       Smith Barney

       A difficult operating environment in the securities markets combined
       with the effect of increased expenses related to the acquisition of the
       Shearson Businesses contributed to a slight decline in Smith Barney's
       earnings when compared to 1993, excluding the $21 million gain in 1994
       and the $65 million provision in 1993 referenced above.  

       Smith Barney Revenues
                                            Year Ended December 31, 
             -----------------------------------------------------------
              (millions)              1994         1993         1992
             -----------------------------------------------------------
              Commissions           $1,964       $1,252         $509
              Investment banking       680          667          433
              Principal trading        900          549          298
              Asset management fees    725          319           73
              Interest income, net*    314          207          101
              Other income             181          100           35
             -----------------------------------------------------------
              Net revenues*         $4,764       $3,094       $1,449
             ===========================================================

       *  Net of interest expense of $770, $277 and $228 in 1994, 1993 and
       1992, respectively.  Revenues included in the consolidated statement of
       income are before deductions for interest expense.

       The securities industry experienced a widespread slowdown in activity,
       revenues and profitability in 1994 compared to 1993.  While Smith
       Barney was significantly affected by this industry-wide slowdown, the
       inclusion of the Shearson Businesses for the full year in 1994 versus
       five months in 1993 resulted in substantial increases in revenues from
       commissions, principal trading, asset management fees and net interest
       income.  Investment banking revenues rose slightly over 1993, in the
       face of a poor environment for stock and bond issuances and lower new
       issue volume in the securities markets generally during 1994,
       reflecting the increased commitment of the firm to this area.      

       Expenses also increased substantially due to the inclusion of the
       Shearson Businesses for the full year 1994. Employee compensation and
       benefits were $2.953 billion in 1994 and $1.810 billion in 1993,
       reflecting additional production-related financial consultant
       compensation, as well as increased staffing levels resulting from the
       acquisition of the Shearson Businesses.  Communications, occupancy and
       equipment expenses in 1994 were $574 million as compared to $323
       million in 1993, reflecting higher office rental and related expenses
       resulting from the acquisition of the Shearson Businesses.  Excluding
       interest and the provision in 1993 for merger-related costs, total
       expenses increased to $4.118 billion in 1994 from $2.448 in 1993.  In
       addition to the general staffing and occupancy costs resulting from the
       acquisition, Smith Barney has made major investments in the systems,
       infrastructure, research, trading and investment banking resources and
       staffing needed to service a much greater number of financial
       consultants.  The investment spending in research, capital markets and
       investment banking has essentially leveled off during 1994 while the
       upgrade of systems and infrastructure is continuing at a reduced pace.

       Smith Barney's return on equity declined from 26.7% for 1993, excluding
       the $65 million merger-related provision, to 16.4% for 1994 excluding
       the $21 million gain on HG Asia, on a higher equity base, and is still
       among the highest of its industry peer group.







                                          3




<PAGE>




       Mutual Funds and Asset Management

       Performance in this segment was essentially flat year-over-year. 
       American Capital's mutual fund sales (at net asset value) were $2.698
       billion in 1994, $3.061 billion in 1993 and $2.212 billion in 1992.


       Assets Under Management (excluding American Capital)

                                                      At December 31,
                                                   ---------------------
               (billions)                             1994     1993   
             -----------------------------------------------------------
               Smith Barney                          $ 74.1    $ 74.8

               RCM Capital Management                  22.4      24.5

               Travelers Life and Annuities (1)        19.2      21.7
             -----------------------------------------------------------
               Total Assets Under Management         $115.7    $121.0
             ===========================================================

       (1)  Part of the Life Insurance Services segment.

       Outlook - Smith Barney's business is significantly affected by the
       levels of activity in the securities markets, which in turn are
       affected by the level and trend of interest rates, the general state of
       the economy and the national and worldwide political environments,
       among other factors.  Continuance of the increasing interest rate
       environment could have further adverse impact on Smith Barney's
       businesses, including commissions (which are linked in part to the
       economic attractiveness of securities relative to time deposits) and
       investment banking (which is affected by the relative benefit to
       corporations and public entities of issuing public debt and/or equity
       versus other avenues for raising capital).  Such effects, however,
       could be at least partially offset by a strengthening U.S. economy that
       would include growth in the business sector -- accompanied by an
       increase in the demand for capital -- and an increase in the capacity
       of individuals to invest.  A decline in interest rates from present
       levels could favorably impact Smith Barney's business.  Smith Barney
       will continue to concentrate on building its asset management business,
       which tends to provide a more predictable and steady income stream than
       its other businesses.  Notwithstanding the investment spending referred
       to above, which is now essentially completed, Smith Barney is
       maintaining tight expense controls that management believes will help
       the firm weather periodic downturns in market conditions. 

       Asset Quality - Total Investment Services' assets at December 31, 1994
       were approximately $45.6 billion, consisting primarily of highly liquid
       marketable securities and collateralized receivables.  About 56% of
       these assets were related to collateralized financing transactions
       where U.S. Government and mortgage-backed securities are bought,
       borrowed, sold and lent in generally offsetting amounts.  Another 15%
       represented inventories of securities primarily needed to meet customer
       demand.  A significant portion of the remainder of the assets
       represented receivables from brokers, dealers and customers that relate
       to securities transactions in the process of being settled.  The
       carrying values of the majority of Smith Barney's securities
       inventories are adjusted daily to reflect current prices.  See Notes 2,
       6, 7 and 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further
       description of these assets.  See Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated
       Financial Statements for a description of Smith Barney's activities in
       derivative financial instruments which are used primarily to facilitate
       customer transactions.

       At December 31, 1994 there were no "bridge" loans at Smith Barney and
       exposure to high-yield positions was not material.  Smith Barney's
       assets to equity ratio at December 31, 1994 was 19.7 to 1, which
       management believes is a conservative leverage level for a securities
       broker and one that allows for future growth. 

       Smith Barney's assets are financed through a number of sources
       including long and short-term credit facilities, the financing
       transactions described above and payables to brokers, dealers and
       customers.


                                          4




<PAGE>




       Consumer Finance Services

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                         Year Ended December 31,
                                               ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          1994                    1993                     1992
                                               ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Net                      Net                      Net
               (millions)                         Revenues     Income     Revenues      Income      Revenues     Income
               --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
               <S>                              <C>           <C>        <C>            <C>         <C>          <C>  
               Consumer Finance Services(1)        $1,239       $227       $1,193         $232       $1,158       $198
               ========================================================================================================
</TABLE>

       (1)  Net income includes $23 and $4 of reported investment portfolio
       gains in 1993 and 1992, respectively. 

       Consumer Finance earnings before reported investment portfolio gains
       increased 8% in 1994 over the prior year.  The increase primarily
       reflects an 11% increase in average receivables outstanding and an
       improvement in net interest margins.  The increase in net income and
       revenues in 1993 compared to 1992 reflects a 3% increase in average
       receivables outstanding and a significant decline in loan losses.  

       Receivables increased in 1994 by $543 million to end the year at $6.885
       billion.  The increase occurred across-the-board and was highlighted by
       a 15% increase in personal loans.  Sixty branch offices were added,
       bringing the total to 828 at year end.

       Consumer Finance borrows from the corporate treasury operations of
       Commercial Credit Company (CCC), a major holding company subsidiary of
       the Company that raises funds externally.  For fixed rate loan products
       Consumer Finance is charged agreed-upon rates that have generally been
       set within a narrow range and approximated 8% in 1992 and 1993 and 7.2%
       in 1994.  For variable rate loan products Consumer Finance is charged
       rates based on prevailing short term rates.  CCC's actual cost of funds
       may be higher or lower than rates charged to Consumer Finance, with the
       difference reflected in Corporate and Other.  

       The average yield on receivables outstanding decreased to 15.41% in
       1994 from 15.83% in the prior year and 16.31% in 1992, due to lower
       yields on fixed rate second mortgages and the adjustable rate real
       estate-secured loan product introduced at the end of 1992.  Decreased
       cost of funds has resulted in an improvement in net interest margins to
       8.76% in 1994 from 8.44% in 1993 and 8.66% in 1992.

       The allowance for losses as a percentage of net receivables was 2.64%
       at year-end 1994 and 1993 compared to 2.91% at year-end 1992 reflecting
       the improved credit quality of the loan portfolio.  
         

                                                 As of, and for, the
                                               Year Ended December 31, 
                                            ----------------------------
                                               1994      1993     1992
                                            ----------------------------
       Allowance for losses as % of net
         consumer finance receivables at
         year end                              2.64%    2.64%     2.91%
                                            
       Charge-off rate for the year            2.08%    2.36%     2.84%
                 
       60 + days past due on a contractual
       basis as % of gross consumer finance
       receivables at year end                 1.88%    2.21%     2.55%

       Subsidiaries of the Company provide credit life, health and property
       insurance to Consumer Finance customers.  Premiums earned were $115
       million in 1994, $88 million in 1993 and $90 million in 1992.  The
       increase in 1994 premiums is the result of the increase in receivables
       and expanded availability of certain products in additional states,  as
       well as the reinsurance by the Company in 1994 of business previously
       insured by non-affiliated companies.






                                          5
<PAGE>


       Outlook - Consumer Finance is affected by the interest rate environment
       and general economic conditions.  In a rising interest rate
       environment, net real estate loan liquidations may decline compared to
       the last two years, when potential customers refinanced their first
       mortgages instead of turning to the second mortgage market, or proceeds
       from the refinancing of first mortgages were used to pay off existing
       second mortgages.  Lower loan liquidations would benefit the level of
       receivables outstanding.  In addition, a rising interest rate
       environment could also reduce the downward pressure experienced during
       the last several years on the interest rates charged on new real
       estate-secured receivables, as well as credit cards, which are
       substantially based on the prime rate.  However, significantly higher
       rates could result in an increase in the interest rates charged to
       Consumer Finance on the funds it borrows from CCC to reflect the
       Company's overall higher cost of funds.   

       Asset Quality - Consumer Finance assets totaled approximately $7.7
       billion at December 31, 1994, of which $6.7 billion, or 87%,
       represented the net consumer finance receivables (after accrued
       interest and the allowance for credit losses).  These receivables were
       predominantly residential real estate-secured loans and personal loans. 
       Receivable quality depends on the likelihood of repayment.  The Company
       seeks to reduce its risks by focusing on individual lending, making a
       greater number of smaller loans than would be practical in commercial
       markets, and maintaining disciplined control over the underwriting
       process.  The Company has a geographically diverse portfolio as
       described in Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  The
       Company believes that its loss reserves on the consumer finance
       receivables are appropriate given current circumstances.

       Of the remaining Consumer Finance assets, approximately $555 million
       were investments of insurance subsidiaries, including $463 million of
       fixed-income securities and $61 million of short-term investments with
       a weighted average quality rating of Aa2.

       Life Insurance Services

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                              Year Ended December 31,
                                            --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 1994                   1993                    1992
            ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                        Net                    Net                     Net
            (millions)                                   Revenues     Income     Revenues     Income     Revenues    Income
            ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                          <C>          <C>       <C>          <C>        <C>         <C>
            Primerica Financial Services(1)                  $1,290       $210      $1,266       $223       $1,158      $197

            Travelers Life and Annuities(2)                   2,198        211         319         42          347        36

            Managed Care and Employee Benefits(3)             3,522        169           -          -            -         -
            ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
            Total Insurance Services                         $7,010       $590      $1,585       $265       $1,505      $233
            ================================================================================================================
</TABLE>
       (1)  Net income includes $7, $45 and $10 of reported investment
            portfolio gains in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.
       (2)  Net income includes $1, $17 and $6 of reported investment
            portfolio gains in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.
       (3)  Net income includes $9 gain from the sale of the group dental
            insurance business in 1994.

       The Life Insurance Services segment includes the results of Primerica
       Financial Services (PFS) for all periods presented and, for 1994 only,
       the results of the Travelers Life and Annuities and the Managed Care
       and Employee Benefits segments of old Travelers which were acquired on
       December 31, 1993.  The 1993 and 1992 amounts reflected for Travelers
       Life and Annuities represent the businesses of Primerica now included
       in this segment.  Certain 1993 production statistics related to old
       Travelers' businesses are included for comparison purposes only and are
       not reflected in 1993 revenues or operating results.

       Primerica Financial Services
       Before reported portfolio gains and a 1993 after-tax charge of $11
       million for the cumulative effect of a tax rate increase through
       December 31, 1992, PFS's 1994 earnings increased 7% over the prior
       year. The increase was a 


                                          6
<PAGE>




       result of improved life insurance sales and persistency (i.e. the
       percentage of policies that continue in force) as well as increases in
       sales of other financial products, primarily mutual funds and the loan
       products of the Consumer Finance segment.

       Sales of individual term life insurance continued an upward trend in
       1994.  PFS issued 299,400 policies totaling $57.4 billion in face
       amount during 1994, an increase from 260,300 policies totaling $49.3
       billion in face amount in 1993 and 252,500 policies totaling $47.3
       billion in face amount in 1992.  The increase in face amount issued has
       contributed to an increase in insurance in force, which was $335
       billion at December 31, 1994, compared to $317 billion at December 31,
       1993.  

       PFS continued to experience growth in sales of other financial
       products, primarily mutual funds through a joint venture with American
       Capital, and the $.M.A.R.T. (second mortgage loans) and S.A.F.E.
       (personal loans) products of Consumer Finance.  Sales of mutual funds
       were $1.32 billion in 1994 compared to $1.27 billion in 1993 and $1.07
       billion in 1992.  PFS has traditionally offered mutual funds to
       customers as a way to invest the savings obtained through the purchase
       of relatively low-cost term life insurance as compared to traditional
       whole life insurance.  $.M.A.R.T. and S.A.F.E. loan receivables, which
       are reflected in the assets of Consumer Finance, were $1.107 billion at
       December 31, 1994 compared to $765 million at December 31, 1993 and
       $487 million at December 31, 1992.  

       Travelers Life and Annuities
       Travelers Life and Annuities consists of annuity, life and health
       products marketed under the Travelers name (the Financial Services
       individual business and the Asset Management & Pension Services group
       annuity business of old Travelers) and the individual accident and
       health operations of Transport Life Insurance Company.  Among the range
       of individual products are fixed and variable annuities; term,
       universal and whole life insurance; and accident and health coverages. 
       These products are primarily marketed through 450 core independent
       agents, The Copeland Companies (Copeland), a wholly owned subsidiary of
       The Travelers Insurance Group Inc. (Travelers Insurance), and Smith
       Barney financial consultants.

       During 1994, $9.2 billion of face amount of individual life insurance
       was issued bringing total life insurance in force to $49 billion. 
       Individual life insurance net premiums and deposits totaled $287
       million in 1994 compared to $279 million in 1993.  

       Individual annuity production was strong during 1994 compared to 1993
       primarily reflecting increased sales of variable annuities.  In late
       June a variable annuity product was introduced for distribution by
       Smith Barney financial consultants and is expected to contribute to
       annuity production in future periods.  Sales of this product amounted
       to $158 million in 1994. Net written premiums and deposits for
       individual annuities during 1994 totaled $1.309 billion compared to
       $1.023 billion in 1993 bringing total policyholder account balances and
       benefit reserves to $10.9 billion at the end of 1994.  Annuity sales
       activity has been helped by the ratings upgrades that accompanied the
       merger of Primerica and old Travelers.  

       In the group annuity business, net written premiums and deposits for
       1994 were $1.284 billion and were down significantly from $2.092
       billion in 1993.  The decline reflects the Company's more selective
       approach to issuance of guaranteed investment contracts and a decision
       in the third quarter of 1993 to no longer market index funds and was
       partially offset by a non-recurring transfer in-house of old Travelers
       pension plan assets amounting to $512 million which were previously
       managed externally.  Policyholder account balances and benefit reserves
       totaled $12.2 billion at year-end 1994 down from $13.6 billion at
       year-end 1993.  

       Net written premiums for individual accident and health products,
       primarily long-term care and supplementary products, totaled $334
       million in 1994, about even with the 1993 period.





                                          7




<PAGE>


       Managed Care and Employee Benefits
       Managed Care and Employee Benefits consists of the old Travelers
       businesses that market group accident and health and life insurance,
       managed health care programs, and administrative services associated
       with employee benefit plans to customers ranging from large
       multinational corporations to small local employers.  

       As discussed in Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,
       the group life and related businesses have been sold to Metropolitan
       Life Insurance Company and in January 1995, the group medical component
       was exchanged for a 50% interest in The MetraHealth Companies, Inc.

       Total group life insurance in force amounted to $144.1 billion at
       year-end 1994, down from $149.9 billion at year- end 1993.  Face amount
       of group life insurance issued during 1994 was $11.4 billion versus
       $13.6 billion in 1993.  Net written premiums, deposits and equivalents
       totaled $592 million for 1994 compared to $665 million in 1993. 
        
       In the group health business, net written premiums, deposits and
       equivalents were $9.2 billion in 1994 compared to $9.7 billion in 1993. 
       Equivalents represent benefits under administration, which together
       with deposits are estimates of premiums that fee-based customers would
       have been charged under a fully insured arrangement and do not
       represent actual revenues.  Total lives covered by medical plans
       declined to 5.0 million at December 31, 1994 from 5.9 million at
       year-end 1993, although participation in the managed care component
       rose 21%.  These declines reflect the Company's emphasis on increasing
       margins to improve profitability; improvements in underwriting designed
       to reduce financial risk rather than emphasize growth; and
       uncertainties during the period relating to proposed healthcare
       legislation.

       Property & Casualty Insurance Services
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                              Year Ended December 31,
                                                          -------------------------------------------------------------------
            (millions)                                          1994                    1993                    1992
            -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                         Net                    Net                      Net
                                                          Revenues     Income     Revenues    Income     Revenues     Income
            -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                       <C>           <C>       <C>         <C>        <C>          <C>
            Commercial (1)                                  $3,058       $146         $315       $45         $316        $54

              Minority Interest - Gulf                           -          -            -      (22)            -          -

            Personal (2)                                     1,480        103            -         -            -          -
            -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
            Total Property & Casualty Insurance
              Services                                      $4,538       $249         $315       $23         $316        $54
            =================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

       (1)  Net income includes $73 of reported investment portfolio losses
            in 1994 and $15 and $6 of reported investment portfolio gains in
            1993 and 1992, respectively, and $19 in 1992 from the sale of
            Musicland common stock.
       (2)  Net income in 1994 includes $18 of reported investment portfolio
            losses and a $19 gain from the sale of Bankers and Shippers
            Insurance Company.

       The Property & Casualty Insurance Services segment consists of the
       business lines of old Travelers as well as Gulf Insurance Group (Gulf). 
       Segment operating results for 1993 include only the 50% of Gulf then
       owned by old Primerica and 1992 includes Gulf only.  Certain 1993
       production statistics related to old Travelers' businesses are included
       for comparison purposes only and are not reflected in 1993 revenues or
       operating results.

       Commercial Lines
       Commercial Lines net written premiums for 1994 totaled $2.391 billion
       compared to $2.499 billion in 1993.  Equivalents for 1994 totaled
       $2.978 billion compared to $2.757 billion in 1993.  Equivalents, which
       are associated largely with national accounts, represent estimates of
       premiums that customers would have been charged under a fully insured
       arrangement and do not represent revenues.  



                                          8

<PAGE>
       A significant component of Commercial Lines is the National Accounts
       division (National), which provides insurance coverages and services,
       primarily workers' compensation, to large corporations.  National
       premium volume of $437 million in 1994 declined $141 million or 24%
       from 1993.  National equivalents of $1.996 billion for the year ended
       December 31, 1994 were $64 million above the same period of 1993.  For
       the year ended December 31, 1994 new business, including both premiums
       and equivalents, was $325 million compared to $407 million in 1993. 
       Renewed business, including both premiums and equivalents, was $1.997
       billion in 1994 compared to $1.983 billion in 1993,  reflecting efforts
       to help customers control their loss costs, which has helped build a
       better than 88% customer retention ratio.  The shift to fee-based
       service products from insurance products continued in 1994.  

       Premiums assumed from industry assigned pools of $129 million for the
       year ended December 31, 1994 were $24 million less than the 1993
       levels.  Equivalents associated with Travelers acting as a servicing
       carrier of these industry involuntary pools totaled $648 million in
       1994, a decrease of $15 million from 1993.  The decrease in premiums
       and equivalents relative to the prior year is due to the depopulation
       of involuntary workers' compensation pools and the formation of
       alternative involuntary workers' compensation funding mechanisms in
       which Travelers has no obligation to participate.

       Commercial Lines Agency Marketing (Agency) business serves small and
       mid-sized businesses through brokers and approximately 2,500
       independent agents.  Agency net written premiums of $1.526 billion for
       the year ended December 31, 1994 were $30 million below 1993 premium
       levels.  Agency equivalents grew to $334 million, $172 million above
       1993 levels.  New business volume in the old Travelers mid-size
       segment, which is a strategic point of business emphasis, was up $80
       million or 26% from the same period in 1993; while the old Travelers
       small business segment increased by $18 million, or 19%.  The retention
       for this mid-size business is slightly higher than 1993 levels while
       this small business ratio declined by 2% reflecting soft market
       conditions and tighter underwriting.  Agency  continues to focus on the
       retention of existing business and maximization of product pricing
       while maintaining its selective underwriting policy.

       Specialty Lines premiums of $299 million for the year ended December
       31, 1994 were $87 million higher than for the year ended December 31,
       1993.  This increase is primarily attributable to an increase in
       property, primary liability and specialty auto writings, and assumed
       reinsurance.

       Catastrophe losses, net of tax and reinsurance, were $30 million and
       $21 million for the years ended December 31, 1994 and 1993,
       respectively.  The increase in catastrophe losses was due to winter
       storms in the first quarter of 1994.  
        
       The 1994 full year combined ratio was 124.7% and includes reserve
       increases for environmental claims and a reduction of ceded reinsurance
       balances amounting to $225 million that were charged against income on
       a statutory basis (but not for GAAP reporting due to purchase
       accounting adjustments related to the acquisition of old Travelers). 
       The 1993 full year combined ratio of old Travelers and Gulf combined
       was 125.3% and includes $325 million of special reserve strengthening
       for environmental and asbestos-related claims recorded by old Travelers
       in the third quarter of 1993.  The combined ratios excluding such
       special charges were 114.2% for 1994 and 111.2% for old Travelers and
       Gulf combined for 1993.  The 1994 ratio also includes the impact of
       winter storm losses in Agency in the first quarter of 1994, partly
       offset by favorable loss development in certain workers' compensation
       lines and residual markets.  In addition, the combined ratio has been,
       and will continue to be, affected by the shift to fee-for-service
       products, which reduces premiums and losses while expenses remain in
       insurance results.  

       Personal Lines
       Net written premiums for 1994 were $1.433 billion compared to $1.361
       billion in 1993.  Included in 1994 are after-tax catastrophe losses of
       $26 million net of reinsurance compared to $13 million in 1993.  The
       combined ratio for Personal Lines for the full year 1994 was 100.4%
       compared to 104.4% in 1993.  This improvement is primarily attributable
       to improved underwriting results due to lower operating expenses,
       favorable loss reserve development in 1994 on prior years' business in
       the automobile line of business and a favorable resolution in 1994 of
       the New Jersey Market Transition Facility deficit. 

                                          9
<PAGE>




       On October 18, 1994, The Travelers Indemnity Company, a subsidiary of
       The Travelers Insurance Group Inc., consummated the sale of its
       subsidiary, Bankers and Shippers Insurance Company (B&S), to Integon
       Corporation for $142 million in cash, and recognized an after-tax gain
       of $19 million on the sale.  B&S primarily writes non- standard
       personal automobile insurance.

       Outlook - PFS  
       Over the last few years, programs were begun that are designed to
       increase the number of producing agents, customer contacts and,
       ultimately, increase production levels.  Enhanced customer service and
       increased customer contacts have contributed to improved sales and
       persistency (i.e., the percentage of policies that continue in force). 
       Insurance in force has begun to grow and the number of producing agents
       has stabilized.  A continuation of these trends could positively impact
       future operations.   PFS continues to expand cross-selling with other
       Company subsidiaries of products such as loans and mutual funds.

       Outlook - Travelers Life and Annuities
       The insurance industry is extremely competitive on both price and
       service and no single issuer is dominant.  Consolidations are occurring
       in the life insurance industry and other financial services
       organizations are becoming involved in the sale and/or distribution of
       life insurance products. This increases the pressure on the Company to
       remain current as to market trends.  Also, the annuities business is
       interest sensitive and swings in interest rates could impact sales and
       retention of in force policies.

       On January 18, 1995, the U.S. Supreme Court in Nationsbank of North
                                                      --------------------
       Carolina, NA. et. al. v. Variable Annuity Life Insurance Co., et. al.
       ---------------------------------------------------------------------
       ruled unanimously that national banks may sell annuities.  At this
       time, it is not clear what impact, if any, this will have on the
       Company's annuity sales.  Currently, the Company's methods of
       distribution of annuities are primarily through Copeland, independent
       insurance agents and financial consultants of Smith Barney.

       Outlook - MetraHealth 
       Upon formation of MetraHealth, the joint venture created by the
       combination of the medical businesses of TIC and its affiliates and
       Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (MetLife), the Company owned 50% of
       Metrahealth's common stock.  The Company's interest in MetraHealth will
       be accounted for on the equity method.  See Note 3 of Notes to
       Consolidated Financial Statements.

       MetraHealth will provide group health insurance, health maintenance
       organizations, managed care and ancillary services throughout the
       United States, in Puerto Rico and in the U.S. Virgin Islands.  The
       range of services provided by these products includes programs to
       maintain health and wellness, as well as to promote patient education
       and to manage health care through networks of providers of
       medical/surgical, mental health and pharmaceutical services. 
       MetraHealth network products rely on contractual arrangements between
       it and providers of health care to deliver services to covered
       individuals at negotiated reimbursement levels as well as to
       participate in utilization and quality management programs.

       As of December 31, 1994, the businesses acquired by MetraHealth
       included health maintenance organizations in 29 network areas, with
       approximately 400,000 members; point-of-service operations in 72
       network areas, with approximately 1.7 million members; and preferred
       provider organizations in 90 network areas, with approximately 2.8
       million members.  Covered lives using the managed care networks and
       covered by indemnity products, in the aggregate at December 31, 1994,
       were approximately 11.3 million.  MetraHealth expects some decline in
       covered lives during 1995.

       In March 1995, MetraHealth acquired HealthSpring, Inc. for common stock
       of Metrahealth.  HealthSpring builds and manages primary care physician
       practices and serves approximately 32,000 patients through seven sites
       in Pennsylvania, Ohio and Illinois.  This acquisition resulted in a
       reduction in the participation of the Company and MetLife in the
       MetraHealth venture to 48.25% each.



                                          10




<PAGE>
       Outlook - Property & Casualty
       A variety of factors continue to affect the property-casualty market
       including inflation in the cost of medical care and litigation and
       losses from involuntary markets. 

       In most lines, pricing did not improve during the past year.  For
       Agency, the duration of the current downturn in the underwriting cycle
       continues to pressure the pricing of guaranteed cost products.  In the
       small account market, which primarily buys guaranteed cost products,
       price increases have not exceeded loss cost inflation for several
       years.  The focus is to retain existing profitable business and obtain
       new accounts where the Company can maintain its selective underwriting
       policy.  The Company continues to adhere to strict guidelines to
       maintain high quality underwriting, which could affect future premium
       levels.  National business is less affected by pricing; however, the
       pricing of large account business continues to be very competitive. 
       Customer retention levels remained high in 1994 as a result of
       Travelers Indemnity's continued delivery of quality service, primarily
       claims management focused on loss cost reduction.  

       In Personal Lines, increasing loss costs in 1994 resulted in pressure
       on current underwriting margins.  Personal Lines management strategy
       includes underwriting more state-specific business, a reduction of
       exposure to catastrophe losses and control of operating expenses to
       improve competitiveness and profitability.

       In an effort to reduce its exposure to catastrophic hurricane losses,
       Travelers Insurance has stopped writing new homeowners policies in
       coastal areas of New York and Connecticut, and in certain counties in
       South Florida, reduced agent commissions on homeowners insurance in
       certain markets, and purchased higher amounts of catastrophe
       reinsurance.  

       Environmental Claims
       As a result of various state and federal regulatory efforts aimed at
       environmental remediation (particularly "Superfund"), the insurance
       industry has been, and continues to be, involved in extensive
       litigation involving policy coverage and liability issues.  The
       possible reauthorization of Superfund in 1995 may have some effect on
       the resolution of these issues, but it is not possible at the present
       time to determine what the potential impact, if any, will be.  In
       addition to the regulatory pressures, certain court decisions have
       expanded insurance coverage beyond the original intent of the insurer
       and insured, frequently involving policies that were issued prior to
       the mid-1970s.  The results of court decisions affecting the industry's
       coverage positions continue to be inconsistent.  Accordingly, the
       ultimate responsibility and liability for environmental remediation
       costs remain uncertain.

       Travelers Insurance is part of the industry segment affected by these
       issues and continues to receive claims alleging liability exposures
       arising out of insureds' alleged disposition of toxic substances.  The
       review of environmental claims includes an assessment of the probable
       liability, available coverage, judicial interpretations and historic
       value of similar claims.  In addition, the unique facts presented in
       each claim are evaluated individually and collectively.  Due
       consideration is given to the many variables presented in each claim,
       such as: the nature of the alleged activities of the insured at each
       site; the allegations of environmental damage at each site; the number
       of sites; the total number of potentially responsible parties at each
       site; the nature of environmental harm and the corresponding remedy at
       a site; the nature of government enforcement activities at each site;
       the ownership and general use of each site; the willingness and ability
       of other potentially responsible parties to contribute to the cost of
       the required remediation at each site; the overall nature of the
       insurance relationship between Travelers Insurance and the insured; the
       identification of other insurers; the potential coverage available, if
       any; the number of years of coverage, if any; the obligation to provide
       a defense to insureds, if any, and the applicable law in each
       jurisdiction.  Analysis of these and other factors on a case-by-case
       basis results in the ultimate reserve assessment.    

       The following table displays activity for environmental losses and loss
       expenses and reserves for 1994.  Approximately 14% of the net
       environmental loss reserve (i.e. approximately $65 million) is case
       reserve for resolved claims.  Travelers Insurance does not post
       individual case reserves for environmental claims in which there is a
       coverage dispute until the dispute is resolved.  Until then, the
       estimated amounts for disputed coverage claims are carried in a bulk
       reserve, together with unreported environmental losses.

                                          11
<PAGE>





       Environmental Losses
       --------------------
       (millions)                                1994 
                                                 ----

       Beginning reserves:
             Direct                              $504*
             Ceded                                (13)
                                                 ----
               Net                                491 

       Incurred losses and loss expenses:
             Direct                                54 
             Ceded                                 (5)
       Losses paid:      
             Direct                                76 
             Ceded                                 (7)
                                                 ----

       Ending reserves:
             Direct                               482 
             Ceded                                (11)
                                                 ----
               Net                              $ 471 
                                                 ====

       * Includes $155 relating to the purchase accounting allocation for the
         acquisition of old Travelers.  Amounts prior to 1994 relate to Gulf
         only and are not material.

       The industry does not have a standard method of calculating claim
       activity for environmental losses.  Generally, for environmental
       claims, Travelers Insurance establishes a claim file for each insured
       on a per site, per claimant basis,  if there is more than one claimant,
       e.g. a federal and a state agency.  This method will result in two
       claims being set up for a policyholder at that one site.  Travelers
       Insurance adheres to its method of calculating claim activity on all
       environmental-related claims, whether such claims are tendered on
       primary, excess or umbrella policies.  

       As of December 31, 1994, Travelers Insurance had approximately 8,200
       pending environmental-related claims and had resolved over 17,200 such
       claims since 1986.  Approximately 70% of the pending claims in
       inventory represent  Federal or state EPA-type claims tendered by
       approximately 725 insureds.  The balance represents bodily injury
       claims alleging injury due to the discharge of insureds' waste or
       pollutants.

       To date, Travelers Insurance generally has been successful in its
       coverage litigation and continues to reduce its potential exposure
       through favorable settlements with certain insureds.  These settlement
       agreements with certain insureds are based on the variables presented
       in each piece of coverage litigation.  Generally the settlement dollars
       paid in disputed coverage claims are a percentage of the total coverage
       sought by such insureds.  In addition, with respect to many of the
       environmental claims there is a "buy-back" of future environmental
       liability risks by Travelers Insurance, together with appropriate
       indemnities and hold harmless provisions to protect Travelers
       Insurance.

       Asbestos Claims
       In the area of asbestos, the industry has suffered from judicial
       interpretations that have attempted to maximize insurance availability
       from both a coverage and liability standpoint far beyond the intent of
       the contracting parties.  These policies generally were issued prior to
       the 1980s.  Originally the cases involved mainly plant workers and
       traditional asbestos manufacturers and distributors.  However, in the
       mid-1980s, a new group of plaintiffs, whose exposure to asbestos was
       less direct and whose injuries were often speculative, began to file
       lawsuits in increasing numbers against the traditional defendants as
       well as peripheral defendants who had produced products that may have
       contained small amounts of some form of encapsulated asbestos.  These
       claims continue to arise and on an individual basis generally involve
       smaller companies with smaller limits of potential coverage.   







                                          12
<PAGE>





       Also, there has emerged a group of non-product claims by plaintiffs,
       mostly independent labor union workers, against companies, alleging
       exposure to asbestos while working at these companies' premises.  In
       addition, various insurers, including Travelers Insurance, remain
       defendants in a widely publicized action brought in Philadelphia
       regarding potential consolidation and resolution of future asbestos
       bodily injury claims.  The cumulative effect of these judicial actions
       on Travelers Insurance and its insureds currently is uncertain.

       Also, various classes of asbestos defendants, e.g. major product
       manufacturers, peripheral and regional product defendants as well as
       premises owners, are tendering asbestos-related claims to the industry. 
       Since each insured presents different liability and coverage issues,
       Travelers Insurance evaluates those issues on an insured-by-insured
       basis.

       Travelers Insurance's evaluations have not resulted in any meaningful
       average asbestos defense or indemnity payment.  The varying defense and
       indemnity payments made by Travelers Insurance on behalf of its
       insureds have also precluded the Company from deriving any meaningful
       data by which it can predict whether its defense and indemnity payments
       for asbestos claims (on average or in the aggregate) will remain the
       same or change in the future.

       The following table displays activity for asbestos losses and loss
       expenses and reserves for 1994.  Approximately 85% of the net asbestos
       reserves at December 31, 1994 represented incurred but not reported
       losses.

       Asbestos Losses
       ---------------
       (millions)                                1994 
                                                 ----

       Beginning reserves:
             Direct                             $775  
             Ceded                              (381)*
                                               -----
               Net                               394  

       Incurred losses and loss expenses:
             Direct                               67  
             Ceded                               (16) 
       Losses paid:      
             Direct                              140  
             Ceded                               (78) 
                                                ----

       Ending reserves:
             Direct                              702  
             Ceded                              (319) 
                                               -----
               Net                              $383  
                                                ====


       * After reflecting a reduction of $70 relating to the purchase
         accounting allocation for the acquisition of old Travelers.  Amounts
         prior to 1994 relate to Gulf only and are not material .

       The largest reinsurer of Travelers Insurance asbestos risks is Lloyd's
       of London (Lloyds).  Lloyds is currently undergoing restructuring to
       seek to obtain additional capital and to segregate claims for years
       before 1986.  The ultimate effect of this restructuring on reinsurance
       recoverable from Lloyds is not yet known.  The Company does not believe
       that any uncollectible amounts of reinsurance recoverables would be
       material to its results of operations, financial condition or
       liquidity.

       In relation to these asbestos and environmental-related claims,
       Travelers Insurance carries on a continuing review of its overall
       position, its reserving techniques and reinsurance recoverable.  In
       each of these areas of exposure, Travelers Insurance has endeavored to
       litigate individual cases and settle claims on favorable terms.  Given
       the






                                          13
<PAGE>

       vagaries of court coverage decisions, plaintiffs' expanded theories of
       liability, the risks inherent in major litigation and other
       uncertainties, it is not presently possible to quantify the ultimate
       exposure or range of exposure represented by these claims to the
       Company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.  The
       Company believes that it is reasonably possible that the outcome of the
       uncertainties regarding environmental and asbestos claims could result
       in a liability exceeding the reserves by an amount that would be
       material to operating results in a future period.  However, it is not
       likely these claims will have a material adverse affect on the
       Company's financial condition or liquidity.

       Outlook - Industry
       Changes in the general interest rate environment affect the return
       received by the insurance subsidiaries on newly invested and reinvested
       funds.  While a rising interest rate environment enhances the returns
       available, it reduces the market value of existing fixed maturity
       investments and the availability of gains on disposition.

       As required by various state laws and regulations, the Company's
       insurance subsidiaries are required to participate in state-
       administered guarantee associations established for the benefit of the
       policyholders of insolvent insurance companies.  Management believes
       that such payments will not have a material impact on the Company's
       results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. 

       Certain social, economic and political issues have led to an increased
       number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at addressing the
       cost and availability of certain types of insurance.   While most of
       these provisions have failed to become law, these initiatives may
       continue as legislators and regulators try to respond to public
       availability and affordability concerns and the resulting laws, if any,
       could adversely affect the Company's ability to write business with
       appropriate returns. 

       The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) adopted
       risk-based capital (RBC) requirements for life insurance companies in
       1992, effective with reporting for 1993, and for property-casualty
       companies in December 1993, effective with reporting for 1994.  The RBC
       requirements are to be used as early warning tools by the NAIC and
       states to identify companies that merit further regulatory action.  The
       formulas have not been designed to differentiate among adequately
       capitalized companies which operate with levels of capital higher than
       RBC requirements.  Therefore, it is inappropriate and ineffective to
       use the formulas to rate or to rank such companies.  At December 31,
       1994 and 1993, all of the Company's life and property-casualty
       companies had adjusted capital in excess of amounts requiring any
       regulatory action.

       Asset Quality -  The investment portfolio of the insurance services
       segment which includes both Life and Property & Casualty totaled
       approximately $38.5 billion, representing 63% of total insurance
       services' assets of approximately $61 billion.  Because the primary
       purpose of the investment portfolio is to fund future policyholder
       benefits and claims payments, management employs a conservative
       investment philosophy.  The investment portfolio supports both the life
       and property-casualty insurance operations.  The insurance segment's
       fixed maturity portfolio totaled $27 billion, comprised of $21 billion
       of publicly traded fixed maturities and $6 billion of private fixed
       maturities.  The weighted average quality ratings of the segment's
       publicly traded fixed maturity portfolio and private fixed maturity
       portfolio at December 31, 1994 were Aa3 and Baa1, respectively. 
       Included in the fixed maturity portfolio was approximately $1.4 billion
       of below investment grade securities.  Investments in venture capital
       investments, highly leveraged transactions and specialized lendings
       were not material in the aggregate.   

       The Insurance Services segment makes significant investments in
       collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs).   Such  CMOs typically have
       high credit quality, offer good liquidity, and provide a significant
       advantage in yield and total return compared to treasury securities. 
       The investment strategy of the Insurance Services segment is to
       purchase CMO tranches that are most protected against prepayment risk,
       typically planned amortization class (PAC) tranches.  Prepayment
       protected tranches are preferred because they provide stable cash flows
       in a variety of scenarios.  The segment does invest in other types of
       CMO tranches if a careful assessment indicates a favorable risk/return
       tradeoff; however, it does not purchase residual interests in CMOs.

                                          14
<PAGE>

       At December 31, 1994, the segment held CMOs with a market value of $2.9
       billion.  Approximately 89% of CMO holdings are fully collateralized by
       GNMA, FNMA or FHLMC securities, and the balance are fully
       collateralized by portfolios of individual mortgage loans.  In
       addition, the segment held $1.9 billion of GNMA, FNMA or FHLMC
       mortgage-backed securities at December 31, 1994.  Virtually all of
       these securities are rated AAA.

       The segment also held $1.0 billion of securities that are backed
       primarily by credit card or car loan receivables at December 31, 1994. 


       At December 31, 1994, real estate and mortgage loan investments totaled
       $5.8 billion.  Most of these investments are included in the investment
       portfolio of The Travelers Insurance Group.  The Company is continuing
       its strategy to dispose of these real estate assets and some of the
       mortgage loans and to reinvest the proceeds to obtain current market
       yields.

       At December 31, mortgage loan and real estate portfolios consisted of
       the following:

         (millions)                                1994       1993
                                                   ----       ----

         Current mortgage loans                  $4,905     $6,096
         Underperforming mortgage loans             511      1,269
                                                  -----      -----
           Total mortgage loans                   5,416      7,365
                                                  -----      -----

           Real estate held for sale                418      1,049
                                                  -----      -----
         Total mortgage loans and real estate    $5,834     $8,414
                                                  =====      =====

       Included in underperforming mortgage loans above are $270 million of
       mortgages restructured at below market terms, of which $265 million are
       current under the new terms.  The new terms typically defer a portion
       of contract interest payments to varying future periods.  The accrual
       of interest is suspended on all restructured loans, and interest income
       is reported only as payment is received.  Of the total real estate held
       for sale $383 million is under- performing.

       For further information relating to investments, see Note 5 of Notes to
       Consolidated Financial Statements.

       Corporate and Other
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           Year Ended December 31,
                                               --------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        1994                      1993                      1992
                                               --------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              Net                       Net                       Net
                                                             Income                    Income                     Income
            (millions)                         Revenues     (Expense)     Revenues    (Expense)    Revenues     (Expense)
            -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                          <C>          <C>         <C>          <C>          <C>
            Net expenses(1)                                   $(201)                     $(65)                     $(62)

            Equity in income of old
              Travelers in 1993 and
              Fingerhut in 1992                                   -                       152                        26

            Net gain on sale of stock of
              subsidiaries and affiliates                        39                         8                       116
            -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
            Total Corporate and Other            $(12)        $(162)        $180          $95        $324          $ 80
            =============================================================================================================
</TABLE>

       (1)  Includes $3 and $2 of reported investment portfolio gains in 1993
       and 1992, respectively.



                                          15
<PAGE>





       Corporate and Other consists of corporate staff and treasury
       operations, certain corporate income and expenses that have not been
       allocated to the operating subsidiaries and certain intersegment
       eliminations.

       The increase in net expenses in 1994 is primarily attributable to the
       assumption of old Travelers corporate debt and certain corporate
       expenses, the full year impact of financing the Shearson Acquisition
       and a rise in commercial paper borrowing costs of approximately 117
       basis points.

       The increase in net expenses in 1993 resulted from lower income from
       miscellaneous investments and interest expense on borrowings to finance
       the acquisition of the Shearson Businesses, offset by lower interest
       rates.    

       The equity in income of old Travelers in 1993 includes $13 million from
       the Company's share of its realized portfolio gains and a tax benefit
       of $11 million for the cumulative effect of a tax rate increase through
       December 31, 1992.

       Liquidity and Capital Resources

       The Travelers Inc. (the Parent) services its obligations primarily with
       dividends and other advances that it receives from subsidiaries.  The
       subsidiaries' dividend paying ability is limited by certain covenant
       restrictions in credit agreements and/or by regulatory requirements. 
       The Parent believes it will have sufficient funds to meet current and
       future commitments.  Each of the Company's major operating subsidiaries
       finances its operations on a stand-alone basis consistent with its
       capitalization and ratings.

       The Parent
       The Parent issues commercial paper directly to investors and maintains
       unused credit availability under committed revolving credit agreements
       at least equal to the amount of commercial paper outstanding.  During
       1994 the Parent, CCC and TIC entered into an agreement with a syndicate
       of banks to provide $1.5 billion of revolving credit, to be allocated
       to any of the Parent, CCC or TIC.  The participation of TIC in this
       agreement is limited to $300 million.  The revolving credit facility
       consists of a 364-day revolving credit facility in the amount of $300
       million and a 5-year revolving credit facility in the amount of $1.2
       billion.  At December 31, 1994, $650 million was allocated to CCC and
       $200 million to TIC.  Under this facility the Company is required to
       maintain a certain level of consolidated stockholders' equity (as
       defined in the agreement).  At December 31, 1994, the Company exceeded
       this requirement by approximately $2.7 billion.

       As of December 31, 1994, the Parent had unused credit availability of
       $650 million consisting of $520 million under the 5-year revolving
       credit facility and $130 million under the 364-day revolving credit
       facility.  The Parent may borrow under its revolving credit facilities
       at various interest rate options and compensates the banks for the
       facilities through commitment fees.

       As of March 3, 1995, the Parent had $800 million available for debt
       offerings under its shelf registration statements.

       Commercial Credit Company (CCC)
       CCC also issues commercial paper directly to investors and maintains
       unused credit availability under committed revolving credit agreements
       at least equal to the amount of commercial paper outstanding.  As of
       December 31, 1994, CCC had unused credit availability of $3.01 billion
       consisting of $2.280 billion under 5-year revolving credit facilities
       and $730 million under 364-day revolving credit facilities.  CCC may
       borrow under its revolving credit facilities at various interest rate
       options and compensates the banks for the facilities through commitment
       fees.







                                          16




<PAGE>
       During 1994 and through March 3, 1995, CCC completed the following debt
       offerings leaving $950 million available for debt offerings under its
       shelf registration statement:

           -  7 7/8% Notes due July 15, 2004            $200 million
           -  8 1/4% Notes due November 1, 2001         $300 million
           -  7 7/8% Notes due February 1, 2025         $200 million
           -  7 3/4% Notes due March 1, 2005            $200 million

       CCC is limited by covenants in its revolving credit agreements as to
       the amount of dividends and advances that may be made to the Parent or
       its affiliated companies.  At December 31, 1994, CCC would have been
       able to remit $270  million to the Parent under its most restrictive
       covenants or regulatory requirements.

       Smith Barney Holdings Inc. (Smith Barney)
       Smith Barney funds its day to day operations through the use of
       commercial paper, collateralized and uncollateralized bank borrowings
       (both committed and uncommitted), internally generated funds,
       repurchase transactions, and securities lending arrangements.  The
       volume of Smith Barney's borrowings generally fluctuates in response to
       changes in the amount of reverse repurchase transactions outstanding,
       the level of securities inventories, customer balances and securities
       borrowing transactions.  In May of 1994, Smith Barney renegotiated its
       three-year revolving credit agreement (the "Agreement") with a bank
       syndicate.  The amendment to the Agreement extended the term by one
       year until May 1997 and increased the amount of the facility from $625
       million to $1 billion.  As of December 31, 1994, $400 million was
       borrowed under the Agreement.  In addition, in May 1994, Smith Barney
       entered into a $750 million, 364-day revolving credit agreement with a
       bank syndicate.  As of December 31, 1994, there were no borrowings
       outstanding under this facility.  Smith Barney also has substantial
       borrowing arrangements consisting of facilities that it has been
       advised are available, but where no contractual lending obligation
       exists.

       Smith Barney, through its subsidiary Smith Barney Inc., issues
       commercial paper directly to investors.  As a policy, Smith Barney
       maintains sufficient borrowing power of unencumbered securities to
       cover unsecured borrowings and unsecured letters of credit.  In
       addition, Smith Barney monitors its leverage and capital ratios on a
       daily basis.

       During 1994 and through March 3, 1995 Smith Barney completed the
       following debt offerings leaving $600 million available for debt
       offerings under its shelf registration statement:

           -  5 1/2% Notes due January 15, 1999   . . . $200 million
           -  6% Notes due March 15, 1997   . . . . . . $200 million
           -  7 7/8% Notes due October 1, 1999  . . . . $150 million
           -  7.4% Notes due November 17, 1996
               (Medium-Term Notes)  . . . . . . . . . . $ 50 million
           -  7.98% Notes due March 1, 2000   . . . . . $200 million

       Smith Barney is limited by covenants in its revolving credit facility
       as to the amount of dividends that may be paid to the Parent.  At
       December 31, 1994, Smith Barney would have been able to remit
       approximately $500 million to the Parent under its most restrictive
       covenants.

       The Travelers Insurance Group
       At December 31, 1994, The Travelers Insurance Group had $23.3 billion
       of life and annuity product deposit funds and reserves.  Of that total,
       $11.6 billion are not subject to discretionary withdrawal based on
       contract terms.  The remaining $11.7 billion are for life and annuity
       products that are subject to discretionary withdrawal by the
       contractholder.  Included in the amount subject to discretionary
       withdrawal are $1.9 billion of liabilities that are surrenderable with
       market value adjustments.  An additional $5.7 billion of the life
       insurance and individual annuity liabilities are subject to
       discretionary withdrawals, with an average surrender charge of 5.5%. 
       Another $1.4 billion of liabilities are surrenderable at book value
       over 5 to 10 years.  In the payout phase, these funds are credited at
       significantly reduced interest rates.  The remaining $2.6 billion of
       liabilities are surrenderable without charge.  Approximately 30% of
       these relate to individual life products.  These risks would have to be
       underwritten again if transferred to another carrier, which is
       considered a significant deterrent against withdrawal by long-term

                                          17
<PAGE>




       policyholders.  Insurance liabilities surrendered or withdrawn from The
       Travelers Insurance Group are reduced by outstanding policy loans and
       related accrued interest prior to payout.

       Scheduled maturities of guaranteed investment contracts (GICs) in 1995,
       1996, 1997, 1998 and 1999 are $1.4 billion, $1.0 billion, $279 million,
       $256 million and $200 million, respectively.  At December 31, 1994, the
       interest rates credited on GICs had a weighted average rate of 5.96%.

       The Travelers Insurance Company (TIC), a direct subsidiary of The
       Travelers Insurance Group Inc., issues commercial paper to investors
       and maintains unused committed, revolving credit facilities at least
       equal to the amount of commercial paper outstanding.  As of December
       31, 1994, TIC has unused credit availability of $200 million consisting
       of $160 million under the 5-year revolving credit facility and $40
       million under the 364-day revolving credit facility.

       Under Connecticut law the statutory capital and surplus of The
       Travelers Insurance Group, which amounted to $4.2 billion at December
       31, 1994, is not available in 1995 for dividends to its Parent without
       prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Department.

       Deferred Income Taxes  
       The Company has a net deferred tax asset which relates to temporary
       differences that are expected to reverse as net ordinary deductions,
       except for a deferred tax asset of $723 million which relates to the
       unrealized loss on fixed maturity investments.  Management has the
       intent and the ability not to realize the unrealized loss except to the
       extent of offsetting capital gains.  The Company will have to generate
       approximately $4.6 billion of taxable income, before the reversal of
       the temporary differences, primarily over the next 10 to 15 years, to
       realize the remainder of the deferred tax asset, exclusive of the
       unrealized loss on fixed maturity investments.  Management expects to 
       realize the remainder of the deferred tax asset based upon its
       expectation of future taxable income, after the reversal of these
       deductible temporary differences, of at least $1 billion annually. 

       Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted

       FAS 114 and FAS 118
       Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 114, "Accounting by
       Creditors for Impairment of a Loan," and Statement of Financial
       Accounting Standards No. 118, "Accounting by Creditors for Impairment
       of a Loan - Income Recognition and Disclosures," describe how impaired
       loans should be measured when determining the amount of a loan loss
       accrual.  These Statements also amend existing guidance on the
       measurement of restructured loans in a troubled debt restructuring
       involving a modification of terms.  The adoption of these Statements
       effective January 1, 1995 will not have a material effect on the
       Company's results of operations or financial position.


























                                          18

<PAGE>

                          The Travelers Inc. and Subsidiaries
                           Consolidated Statement of Income
                  (In millions of dollars, except per share amounts)



        Year Ended December 31,                1994     1993      1992       
        ----------------------------------------------------------------------
        Revenues
        Insurance premiums                   $7,590   $1,480    $1,694
        Commissions and fees                  2,691    1,957       973
        Interest and dividends                3,637      718       605
        Finance related interest and
         other charges                        1,030      954       953
        Principal transactions                  900      549       298
        Asset management fees                   795      385       131
        Equity in income of old Travelers         -      164         -
        Other income                          1,822      590       471       
        ----------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total revenues                     18,465    6,797     5,125       
        ----------------------------------------------------------------------
        Expenses
        Policyholder benefits and claims      7,797      833       907
        Non-insurance compensation and
         benefits                             3,241    2,057     1,069
        Insurance underwriting,
         acquisition and operating            2,572      506       674
        Interest                              1,284      707       674
        Provision for credit losses             152      134       165
        Other operating                       1,524    1,050       636       
        ----------------------------------------------------------------------
           Total expenses                    16,570    5,287     4,125       
        ----------------------------------------------------------------------
        Gain on sale of subsidiaries
         and affiliates                         254       13       188
        ----------------------------------------------------------------------
        Income before income taxes,
         minority interest and
         cumulative effect of changes
         in accounting principles             2,149    1,523     1,188
        Provision for income taxes              823      550       432       
        ----------------------------------------------------------------------
        Income before minority
         interest and cumulative
         effect of changes in
         accounting principles                1,326      973       756
        Minority interest, net of
         income taxes                             -      (22)        - 
        Cumulative effect of changes
         in accounting principles,
         net of income taxes                      -      (35)      (28)
        ----------------------------------------------------------------------
        Net income                           $1,326   $  916    $  728
        ======================================================================

        Net income per share of common
         stock and common stock
         equivalents: 
        Before cumulative effect of
         changes in accounting principles    $   3.86 $   3.88  $   3.34
        Cumulative effect of changes in
         accounting principles                   -       (0.14)    (0.12)
        ----------------------------------------------------------------------
        Net income per share of common
         stock and common stock
         equivalents                         $   3.86 $   3.74  $   3.22    
        ======================================================================
        Weighted average number of
         common shares outstanding
         and common stock equivalents
         (in millions)                         322.0    237.8     222.8 
        ======================================================================

        See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



                                          20

<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                  The Travelers Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                             Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
                                                       (In millions of dollars)

        December 31,                                                                            1994                   1993 
        --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        <S>                                                                            <C>                    <C>
        Assets
        Cash and cash equivalents
          (including $816 and $914 segregated under federal and
           other brokerage regulations)                                                    $   1,227              $   1,526 
        Investments:
           Fixed maturities:
             Available for sale, at market value in 1994 and amortized cost in 1993           27,192                 28,109 
             Held to maturity, at amortized cost                                                  96                    177 
           Equity securities, at market value                                                    510                    555 
           Mortgage loans                                                                      5,416                  7,365 
           Real estate held for sale                                                             418                  1,049 
           Policy loans                                                                        1,581                  1,367 
           Short-term and other                                                                3,907                  3,577 
        --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Total investments                                                                  39,120                 42,199 
        --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell                           25,655                 13,353 
        Brokerage receivables                                                                  8,238                  8,167 
        Trading securities owned, at market value                                              6,945                  5,863 
        Net consumer finance receivables                                                       6,746                  6,216 
        Reinsurance recoverables                                                               5,026                  4,929 
        Value of insurance in force and deferred policy acquisition costs                      2,163                  1,996 
        Cost of acquired businesses in excess of net assets                                    2,045                  2,162 
        Separate and variable accounts                                                         5,162                  4,665 
        Other receivables                                                                      4,018                  4,624 
        Other assets                                                                           8,952                  5,590 
        --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Total assets                                                                        $115,297               $101,290 
        ====================================================================================================================
        Liabilities
        Investment banking and brokerage borrowings                                        $   4,374              $   3,454 
        Short-term borrowings                                                                  2,480                  2,535 
        Long-term debt                                                                         7,075                  6,991 
        Securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase                              21,620                 10,144 
        Brokerage payables                                                                     7,807                  7,012 
        Trading securities sold not yet purchased, at market value                             4,345                  3,835 
        Contractholder funds                                                                  16,392                 17,980 
        Insurance policy and claims reserves                                                  27,084                 26,806 
        Separate and variable accounts                                                         5,127                  4,642 
        Accounts payable and other liabilities                                                10,215                  8,455 
        --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total liabilities                                                                  106,519                 91,854 
        --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        ESOP Preferred stock - Series C                                                          235                    235 
        Guaranteed ESOP obligation                                                              (97)                   (125)
        --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                 138                    110 
        --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Stockholders' equity
        Preferred stock ($1.00 par value; authorized shares: 30 million),
         at aggregate liquidation value                                                          800                    800 
        Common stock ($.01 par value; authorized shares: 500 million
          issued shares: 1994 - 368,195,609 and 1993 - 368,287,709)                                4                      4 
        Additional paid-in capital                                                             6,655                  6,566 
        Retained earnings                                                                      4,199                  3,140 
        Treasury stock, at cost (1994 - 51,684,618 shares and 1993 - 41,155,405 shares)      (1,553)                 (1,121)
        Unrealized gain (loss) on investment securities and other, net                       (1,465)                    (63)
        --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total stockholders' equity                                                           8,640                  9,326 
        --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Total liabilities and stockholders' equity                                          $115,297               $101,290 
        ====================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

        See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                                          21
<PAGE>



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                          The Travelers Inc. and Subsidiaries
                               Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders' Equity
                                               (In millions of dollars)


                                                                    Amounts                    Shares (in thousands)
                                                            ------------------------       -----------------------------
Year Ended December 31,                                      1994     1993      1992          1994       1993     1992
                                                            ------------------------       -----------------------------
<S>                                                       <C>      <C>       <C>           <C>       <C>      <C>
Preferred Stock at aggregate liquidation value
Balance, beginning of year                                $  800   $  300    $    -         11,200      1,200        -
Issuance of preferred stock                                           500       300                    10,000    1,200
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------        -----------------------------
Balance, end of year                                         800      800       300         11,200     11,200    1,200
===================================================================================        =============================
Common Stock and Additional Paid-In Capital
Balance, beginning of year                                 6,570    2,150     2,128        368,287    253,524  253,524
Issuance of common stock                                              329                              10,333
Travelers Merger: 
  Common stock issued to third party stockholders                   3,265                              85,911
  Common stock issued to subsidiaries of the Company                  595                              18,519
  Premium related to preferred stock, options and other                67 
Conversion of debentures                                               17        11 
Issuance of common stock warrants                                      25 
Cost of issuance of preferred stock                                             (10)
Issuance of shares pursuant to employee benefit plans         85      122        21 
Other                                                          4                               (91)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------        -----------------------------
Balance, end of year                                       6,659    6,570     2,150        368,196    368,287  253,524
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------        -----------------------------
Retained Earnings
Balance, beginning of year                                 3,140    2,363     1,720 
Net income                                                 1,326      916       728 
Common dividends                                            (181)    (113)      (78)
Preferred dividends                                          (86)     (26)       (7)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance, end of year                                       4,199    3,140     2,363 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Treasury Stock (at cost)
Balance, beginning of year                                (1,121)    (540)     (538)       (41,155)   (31,572) (36,278)
Conversion of debentures                                               81        65                     4,104    4,356
Issuance of shares pursuant to employee benefit
 plans, net of shares tendered for payment of option
 exercise price and withholding taxes                        111      (10)       54          5,318      6,175    6,583
Treasury stock acquired                                     (543)     (58)     (122)       (15,876)    (1,478)  (6,307)
Common stock issued to subsidiaries of the Company                   (595)                            (18,519)
Other                                                                   1         1             28        135       74
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------        -----------------------------
Balance, end of year                                      (1,553)  (1,121)     (540)       (51,685)   (41,155) (31,572)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------      ------------------------------
Unrealized Gain (Loss) on Investment Securities
 and Other
Balance, beginning of year                                   (63)     (44)      (30)
Net change in unrealized gains and losses on
  investment securities                                   (1,349)      22         7 
Net issuance of restricted stock                            (190)    (103)      (64)
Restricted stock amortization                                136       64        48 
Translation adjustments, net                                   1       (2)       (5)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance, end of year                                      (1,465)     (63)      (44)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total common stockholders' equity and common
 shares outstanding                                       $7,840   $8,526    $3,929        316,511    327,132  221,952 
===================================================================================       =============================
Total stockholders' equity                                $8,640   $9,326    $4,229 
===================================================================================
</TABLE>

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



                                          22
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                         The Travelers Inc. and Subsidiaries 
                                         Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
                                               (In millions of dollars)
Year Ended December 31,                                                                        1994      1993    1992
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                                       <C>      <C>       <C>
Cash Flows From Operating Activities
Income before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of
 changes in accounting principles                                                           $2,149   $ 1,523  $1,188 
Adjustments to reconcile income before income taxes, minority interest
 and cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles to net cash
 provided by (used in) operating activities: 
    Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and value of insurance in force          818       286     423 
    Additions to deferred policy acquisition costs                                          (1,005)     (369)   (574)
    Depreciation and amortization                                                              349       125      97 
    Provision for credit losses                                                                152       134     165 
    Undistributed equity earnings                                                                -      (116)       -
    Changes in:
      Trading securities, net                                                                 (572)   (1,082)   (156)
      Securities borrowed, loaned and repurchase agreements, net                              (826)   (1,591)     62 
      Brokerage receivables net of brokerage payables                                          724       863    (252)
      Insurance policy and claims reserves                                                     278       251      29 
    Other, net                                                                              (1,171)      522    (190)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net cash provided by operations                                                                896       546     792 
Income taxes paid                                                                             (378)     (403)   (332)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Net cash provided by operating activities                                                    518       143     460
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash Flows From Investing Activities
Consumer loans originated or purchased                                                      (2,789)   (2,673) (2,067)
Consumer loans repaid or sold                                                                2,094     2,108   2,020 
Purchases of fixed maturities and equity securities                                         (9,231)   (2,794) (2,014)
Proceeds from sales of investments and real estate:
  Fixed maturities available for sale and equity securities                                  4,219     2,485   1,658 
  Mortgage loans                                                                               415         5       8 
  Real estate and real estate joint ventures                                                   955         -      -  
Proceeds from maturities of investments:
  Fixed maturities                                                                           3,576       231     312 
  Mortgage loans                                                                             1,372         6       3 
Other investments, primarily short-term, net                                                  (598)    (631)     (18)
Payment for purchase of the Shearson Businesses                                                (69)   (1,296)      - 
Payment for net clearing assets transferred                                                      -      (536)      - 
Cash acquired in connection with The Travelers Merger                                            -        59       - 
Business acquisitions                                                                            -         -    (550)
Business divestments                                                                           679       120     571 
Other, net                                                                                    (284)     (274)    (90)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities                                          339    (3,190)   (167)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash Flows From Financing Activities                                                               
Issuance of preferred stock - series A                                                           -         -     290 
Dividends paid                                                                                (267)     (139)    (85)
Issuance of common stock                                                                         -       329       - 
Treasury stock acquired                                                                       (543)      (58)   (122)
Issuance of long-term debt                                                                   1,150     2,733     674 
Payments and redemptions of long-term debt                                                  (1,033)     (448)   (972)
Net change in short-term borrowings (including investment banking and brokerage borrowings)    865     1,934      17 
Contractholder fund deposits                                                                 2,205         -       - 
Contractholder fund withdrawals                                                             (3,529)        -       - 
Other, net                                                                                      (4)      (50)   (138)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities                                       (1,156)    4,301    (336)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Change in cash and cash equivalents                                                           (299)    1,254     (43)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period                                             1,526       272     315 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period                                                  $1,227   $ 1,526  $  272 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:
Cash paid during the period for interest                                                    $1,227   $   674  $  669 
Value of assets exchanged for shares of old Travelers                                       $    -   $     -  $  173 
=====================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.




                                          23
<PAGE>
                         The Travelers Inc. and Subsidiaries
                     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

       1. Business Acquisitions
          ---------------------

          The Travelers Acquisition
          In December 1992, Primerica Corporation (Primerica), the
          predecessor to The Travelers Inc., acquired approximately 27% of
          the common stock of The Travelers Corporation (old Travelers) (the
          Acquisition).  During 1993 this investment was accounted for on the
          equity method. 

          The Travelers Merger
          On December 31, 1993, Primerica acquired the approximately 73% of
          old Travelers common stock it did not already own (the Merger). 
          Old Travelers was merged into Primerica, and concurrently,
          Primerica changed its name to The Travelers Inc. which, together
          with its subsidiaries, is hereinafter referred to as the Company. 
          The old Travelers businesses acquired are hereinafter referred to
          as old Travelers or The Travelers Insurance Group.  As
          consideration for the Merger, the Company issued .80423 shares of
          its common stock for each old Travelers common share then
          outstanding.  The total purchase price of $3.398 billion is
          comprised of $3.265 billion, representing the fair value of the
          approximately 86 million newly issued common shares, plus the
          premium over book value related to the two issues of old Travelers
          preference stock exchanged in the Merger (see Note 14) and certain
          other acquisition costs.  

          The assets and liabilities of old Travelers are reflected in the
          Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 1993
          on a fully consolidated basis at management's then best estimate of
          their fair values.  Evaluation and appraisal of assets and
          liabilities, including investments, the value of insurance in
          force, reinsurance recoverable, other insurance assets and
          liabilities and related deferred income tax was completed during
          1994.  The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair
          value of net assets was $917 million and is being amortized over 40
          years.  

          The Acquisition and the Merger are being accounted for as a step
          acquisition.  The step acquisition method of purchase accounting
          requires that the old Travelers' assets and liabilities be recorded
          at the fair values determined at each acquisition date (i.e., 27%
          of values at December 31, 1992 as carried forward and 73% of values
          at December 31, 1993).  The merger has been accounted for as a
          purchase, and accordingly, the results of operations for periods
          prior to December 31, 1993 do not include those of old Travelers
          other than for the equity in earnings relating to the 27%
          previously owned.  

          The Shearson Acquisition
          On July 31, 1993, the Company acquired the domestic retail
          brokerage and asset management businesses (the Shearson Businesses)
          of Shearson Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LBI), a subsidiary of
          American Express Company (American Express), for approximately $2.1
          billion, representing $1.6 billion for the net assets acquired plus
          approximately $500 million of cash required to be segregated for
          customers under commodities regulations.   The businesses acquired
          were combined with the operations of Smith Barney, Harris Upham &
          Co.  Incorporated, and the combined firm has been named Smith
          Barney Inc. which is a subsidiary of Smith  Barney Holdings Inc.
          (Smith Barney).  The acquisition was accounted for under the
          purchase method of accounting, and the consolidated financial
          statements include the results of the Shearson Businesses from the
          date of acquisition.  Payment for the net assets consisted of
          approximately $900 million in cash, $125 million in the form of
          convertible preferred stock of the Company, $25 million in the form
          of warrants to purchase common stock of the Company and the balance
          in notes to LBI.  In addition, Smith Barney has agreed to pay
          American Express additional amounts that are contingent upon the
          new unit's performance, consisting of up to $50 million per year
          for three years based on Smith Barney's revenues and 10% of Smith
          Barney's after tax profits in excess of $250 million per year over
          a five year period.  Additional consideration paid during 1994
          amounted to $69 million and Smith Barney expects to pay
          approximately $50 million in the first quarter of 1995.  The
          contingent consideration will be accounted for prospectively, as 

                                         24
<PAGE>
          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

          additional purchase price, which will result in amortization over
          periods of up to 20 years.  Evaluation and appraisal of assets and
          liabilities, including the value of identifiable intangible assets
          and liabilities assumed, was completed during 1994.  As a result of
          the acquisition of the Shearson Businesses, the Company recorded a
          provision in the third quarter of 1993 of $65 million after-tax
          relating primarily to the elimination of duplicate facilities,
          severance and other personnel-related costs.  

          In conjunction with the acquisition of the Shearson Businesses,
          Smith Barney entered into a securities clearing agreement with LBI
          (the Clearing Agreement) effective August 2, 1993, pursuant to
          which Smith Barney has agreed to carry and clear, on a fully
          disclosed basis, all customer accounts introduced by LBI and, on a
          correspondent basis, LBI's proprietary accounts.  LBI transferred
          at cost approximately $8.6 billion of assets and $7.787 billion of
          liabilities to Smith Barney in connection with the Clearing
          Agreement.  Payment for these net assets of $813 million consisted
          of approximately $536 million in cash and the remainder in notes to
          LBI.  The Clearing Agreement is terminating in early 1995, and
          assets and liabilities related to the Clearing Agreement are being
          transferred to LBI in exchange for cash equal to the net assets. 
          At December 31, 1994, $11.855 billion of assets and $10.428 billion
          of liabilities related to the Clearing Agreement are included in
          the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.

          Supplemental Information to the Consolidated Statement of Cash
          Flows Relating to Acquisitions

          Noncash investing and financing transactions relating to the above
          transactions that are not reflected in the Consolidated Statement
          of Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 1993 are listed
          below.

             (millions)                          Travelers  Shearson
                                                 ---------  --------- 
             Fair value of assets acquired,      $40,922     $4,811 
             excluding cash acquired             
             Liabilities assumed                 (37,642)    (2,779)
             Issuance of notes                         -       (586)
             Equity securities issued             (3,339)      (150)
                                                 -------     ------

             Cash payment (acquired)              $  (59)    $1,296
                                                 =======     ======


       2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
          ------------------------------------------

          Changes in Accounting Principles  

          FAS 115.  Effective January 1, 1994, the Company adopted Statement
          of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 115, "Accounting for
          Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," which addresses
          accounting and reporting for investments in equity securities that
          have a readily determinable fair value and for all debt securities. 
          Debt securities that the Company has the positive intent and
          ability to hold to maturity have been classified as "held to
          maturity" and have been reported at amortized cost.  Investment
          securities that are not classified as "held to maturity" have been
          classified as "available for sale" and are reported at fair value,
          with unrealized gains and losses, net of income taxes, charged or
          credited directly to stockholders' equity.  Previously, securities
          classified as available for sale were carried at the lower of
          aggregate cost or market value.  Initial adoption of this standard
          resulted in a net increase of $214 million (net of taxes) to net
          unrealized gains on investment securities which is included in
          stockholders' equity.

          FAS 106.  In 1993, the Company adopted FAS No. 106, "Employers'
          Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions" (FAS
          106).  As required, the Company changed its method of accounting
          for retiree benefit plans effective January 1, 1993, to accrue for
          the Company's share of the costs of postretirement benefits over
          the service period rendered by employees.  Previously these
          benefits were charged to expense when paid.  The Company elected to
          recognize immediately the liability for

                                         25
<PAGE>
          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

          postretirement benefits as the cumulative effect of a change in
          accounting principle.  This resulted in a noncash after-tax charge
          to net income of $17 million ($25 million pre-tax) or $0.07 per
          share.  See Note 17 for additional information relating to FAS 106.

          FAS 112.  In 1993, the Company adopted FAS No. 112, "Employers'
          Accounting for Postemployment Benefits" (FAS 112), with retroactive
          application to January 1, 1993.  FAS 112 establishes accounting
          standards for employers who provide benefits to former or inactive
          employees after employment, but before retirement.  For the Company
          these benefits are principally disability-related benefits and
          severance.  The statement requires employers to recognize the cost
          of the obligation to provide these benefits on an accrual basis,
          and employers must implement FAS 112 by recognizing a cumulative
          effect of a change in accounting principle.  This resulted in a
          noncash after-tax charge to net income of $18 million ($29 million
          pre-tax) or $0.07 per share.  

          FAS 113.  In the first quarter of 1993, the Company adopted FAS No.
          113, "Accounting and Reporting for Reinsurance of Short-Duration
          and Long-Duration Contracts".  FAS 113 requires the reporting of
          reinsurance receivables and prepaid reinsurance premiums as assets
          and precludes the immediate recognition of gains for all
          reinsurance contracts unless the liability to the policyholder has
          been extinguished.  Adoption of FAS 113 did not have an impact on
          the Company's earnings; however, assets and liabilities increased
          by like amounts.  See Note 12 for additional reinsurance
          disclosures.

          Interpretations 39 and 41.  Effective January 1, 1994, the Company
          adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 39,
          "Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts"
          (Interpretation 39).  The general principle of Interpretation 39
          states that amounts due from and due to another party may not be
          offset in the balance sheet unless a right of setoff exists and the
          parties intend to exercise the right of setoff.  In December 1994,
          the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Interpretation No.
          41 "Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Repurchase and Reverse
          Repurchase Agreements" (Interpretation 41).  This Interpretation
          modifies Interpretation 39 to permit offsetting in the statement of
          financial position of payables and receivables that represent
          repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase agreements that meet
          certain conditions.   Implementation of Interpretations 39 and 41
          did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position.

          Accounting Policies

          Principles of Consolidation.  The consolidated financial statements
          include the accounts of The Travelers Inc. and its subsidiaries. 
          Results of operations prior to 1994 exclude the amounts of The
          Travelers Insurance Group except that results for 1993 include the
          Company's equity in earnings related to the 27% purchase. 
          Unconsolidated entities in which the Company has at least a 20%
          interest are accounted for on the equity method.  The minority
          interest in 1993 represents the old Travelers' interest in Gulf
          Insurance Company (Gulf).  Significant intercompany transactions
          and balances have been eliminated.

          Certain reclassifications have been made to prior years' financial
          statements to conform to the current year's presentation.  

          Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, cash and securities
          segregated under federal and brokerage regulations and short-term
          highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less
          when purchased, other than those held for sale in the ordinary
          course of business.  These short-term investments are carried at
          cost plus accrued interest, which approximates market value.

          Investments are owned principally by the insurance subsidiaries. 
          Fixed maturities include bonds, notes and redeemable preferred
          stocks.  Equity securities include common and non-redeemable
          preferred stocks.  Fixed maturities classified as "held to
          maturity" represent securities that the Company has both the
          ability and the

                                         26
<PAGE>
          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

          intent to hold until maturity and are carried at amortized cost. 
          Fixed maturity securities classified as "available for sale" and
          equity securities are carried at market values that are based
          primarily on quoted market prices.  The difference between
          amortized cost and market values of such securities net of
          applicable income taxes is reflected as a component of
          stockholders' equity.   Real estate held for sale is carried at the
          lower of cost or fair value.  Fair values are established by
          appraisers, both internal and external, using discounted cash flow
          analyses and other acceptable techniques.  Mortgage loans are
          carried at amortized cost.  Policy loans are carried at unpaid
          balances which do not exceed the net cash surrender value of the
          related insurance policies.  Short-term investments are carried at
          cost, which approximates market.  Realized gains and losses on
          sales of investments and unrealized losses considered to be other
          than temporary, determined on a specific identification basis, are
          included in other income.  

          Accrual of income is suspended on fixed maturities or mortgage
          loans that are in default, or on which it is likely that future
          interest payments will not be made as scheduled.  Interest income
          on investments in default is recognized only as payment is
          received.

          The cost of acquired businesses in excess of net assets is being
          amortized on a straight-line basis principally over a 40-year
          period.

          Income taxes have been provided for in accordance with the
          provisions of FAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" (FAS 109),
          which was adopted effective January 1, 1992.  The Company and its
          wholly owned domestic non-life insurance subsidiaries file a
          consolidated federal income tax return.  All but one of the life
          insurance subsidiaries are included in their own consolidated
          federal income tax return.  Deferred income taxes result from
          temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and
          liabilities and their recorded amounts for financial reporting
          purposes.  

          Income taxes are not provided for on the Company's life insurance
          subsidiaries' retained earnings designated as "policyholders'
          surplus" because such taxes will become payable only to the extent
          such retained earnings are distributed as a dividend or exceed
          limits prescribed by federal law.  Distributions are not
          contemplated from this portion of the life insurance companies'
          retained earnings, which aggregated $971 million (subject to a tax
          effect of $340 million) at December 31, 1994.

          Earnings per common share is computed after recognition of
          preferred stock dividend requirements and is based on the weighted
          average number of shares outstanding during the period after
          consideration of the dilutive effect of common stock warrants and
          stock options and the incremental shares assumed issued under the
          Capital Accumulation Plan and other restricted stock plans.  Fully
          diluted earnings per common share, assuming conversion of all
          outstanding convertible notes and debentures, the maximum dilutive
          effect of common stock equivalents and conversion of the 5.5%
          convertible preferred stock, has not been presented because the
          effects are not material.  The fully diluted earnings per common
          share computation for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and
          1992 would entail adding the number of shares issuable on
          conversion of the other debentures (zero and 2 million and 4
          million shares, respectively), the additional common stock
          equivalents (2 million, zero and 1 million shares respectively) and
          the assumed conversion of the 5.5% convertible preferred stock (3
          million, 2 million, and zero shares, respectively) to the number of
          shares included in the earnings per common share calculation
          (resulting in a total of 327 million, and 242 million and 228
          million shares, respectively) and eliminating the after-tax
          interest expense related to the conversion of other debentures
          (zero, $3 million and $7 million, respectively) and the elimination
          of the 5.5% convertible preferred stock dividends ($7 million, $3
          million, and zero, respectively). 

          Financial Instruments - Disclosures.  Included in the Notes to
          Consolidated Financial Statements are various disclosures relating
          to financial instruments having off-balance sheet risk.  These
          disclosures indicate the magnitude of the Company's involvement in
          such activities, and reflect the instruments at their face,
          contract or notional amounts.  The Notes to Consolidated Financial
          Statements also include various disclosures

                                         27
<PAGE>
          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

          relating to the methods and assumptions used to estimate fair value
          of each material type of financial instrument.  The carrying value
          of short-term financial instruments approximates fair value because
          of the relatively short period of time between the origination of
          the instruments and their expected realization.  The carrying value
          of receivables and payables arising in the ordinary course of
          business approximates fair market value.  The fair value
          assumptions were based upon subjective estimates of market
          conditions and perceived risks of the financial instruments at a
          certain point in time.  Disclosed fair values for financial
          instruments do not reflect any premium or discount that could
          result from offering for sale at one time the Company's entire
          holdings of a particular financial instrument.  Potential taxes and
          other expenses that would be incurred in an actual sale or
          settlement are not reflected in amounts disclosed. 

          Derivative Financial Instruments.   Information concerning
          derivative financial instruments and the accounting policies
          related thereto is included in Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated
          Financial Statements.  

          Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted  

          FAS 114 and FAS 118.  FAS No. 114, "Accounting by Creditors for
          Impairment of a Loan," and FAS No. 118, "Accounting by Creditors
          for Impairment of a Loan - Income Recognition and Disclosures,"
          describe how impaired loans should be measured when determining the
          amount of a loan loss accrual.  These Statements also amend
          existing guidance on the measurement of restructured loans in a
          troubled debt restructuring involving a modification of terms.  The
          adoption of these statements, effective January 1, 1995, will not
          have a material effect on results of operations or financial
          position.

          INVESTMENT SERVICES

          Commissions related to security transactions, underwriting revenues
          and related expenses are recognized in income on the trade date.

          Management and investment advisory fees are recorded as income for
          the period in which the services are performed.  

          Securities borrowed and securities loaned are recorded at the
          amount of cash collateral advanced or received.  With respect to
          securities loaned, the Company receives collateral in the form of
          cash or financial instruments in an amount in excess of the market
          value of securities loaned.  The Company monitors the market value
          of securities borrowed and loaned on a daily basis with additional
          collateral obtained as necessary.  

          Repurchase and resale agreements are treated as collateralized
          financing transactions and are carried at the amounts at which the
          securities will be subsequently reacquired or resold, including
          accrued interest, as specified in the respective agreements.  The
          Company's policy is to take possession of securities purchased
          under agreements to resell.  The market value of securities to be
          repurchased and resold is monitored, and additional collateral is
          requested where appropriate to protect against credit exposure.   

          Trading securities are carried at market value.  Included in income
          are realized and unrealized gains and losses on trading securities
          and proprietary futures, forward and option contracts.

          Other assets include the value of management advisory contracts,
          which is being amortized on the straight-line method over periods
          ranging from twelve to thirty years.  

                                         28
<PAGE>
          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

          INSURANCE SERVICES

          Premiums from long-duration contracts, principally life insurance,
          are earned when due.  Premiums from short-duration insurance
          contracts are earned over the related contract period.  Short-
          duration contracts include primarily property and casualty, credit
          life and accident and health policies, including estimated ultimate
          premiums on retrospectively rated and reporting-form policies. 
          Benefits and expenses are associated with premiums by means of the
          provision for future policy benefits, unearned premiums and the
          deferral and amortization of policy acquisition costs.

          Value of insurance in force represents the actuarially determined
          present value of anticipated profits to be realized from life and
          accident and health business on insurance in force at the date of
          the Company's acquisition of its insurance subsidiaries using the
          same assumptions that were used for computing related liabilities
          where appropriate.  The value of insurance in force acquired prior
          to December 31, 1993 is amortized over the premium paying periods
          in relation to anticipated premiums.  The value of insurance in
          force relating to The Travelers Insurance Group merger was the
          actuarially determined present value of the projected future
          profits discounted at interest rates ranging from 14% to 18% for
          the business acquired.  The value of the business in force is
          amortized over the contract period using current interest crediting
          rates to accrete interest and using amortization methods based on
          the specified products.  Traditional life insurance is amortized
          over the period of anticipated premiums; universal life in relation
          to estimated gross profits; and  annuity contracts employing a
          level yield method.  The value of insurance in force is reviewed
          periodically for recoverability to determine if any adjustment is
          required.

          Deferred policy acquisition costs for the life business represent
          the costs of acquiring new business, principally commissions,
          certain underwriting and agency expenses and the cost of issuing
          policies.  Deferred policy acquisition costs for traditional life
          business are amortized over the premium-paying periods of the
          related policies, in proportion to the ratio of the annual premium
          revenue to the total anticipated premium revenue.  Deferred policy
          acquisition costs of other business lines are generally amortized
          over the life of the insurance contract or at a constant rate based
          upon the present value of estimated gross profits expected to be
          realized.  For certain property and casualty lines, acquisition
          costs, such as commissions, premium taxes and certain other
          underwriting and agency expenses, have been deferred to the extent
          recoverable from future earned premiums and are amortized ratably
          over the terms of the related policies.  Deferred policy
          acquisition costs are reviewed to determine if they are recoverable
          from future income, including investment income, and, if not
          recoverable, are charged to expense.

          Separate and variable accounts primarily represent funds for which
          investment income and investment gains and losses accrue directly
          to, and investment risk is borne by, the contractholders.  Each
          account has specific investment objectives.  The assets of each
          account are legally segregated and are not subject to claims that
          arise out of any other business of the Company.  The assets of
          these accounts are carried at market value.  Certain other separate
          accounts provide guaranteed levels of return or benefits, and the
          assets of these accounts are carried at amortized cost.  At
          December 31, 1993, the balances of all separate accounts are
          recorded at the values assigned at the acquisition dates.  Amounts
          assessed to the contractholders for management services are
          included in revenues.  Deposits, net investment income and realized
          investment gains and losses for these accounts are excluded from
          revenues, and related liability increases are excluded from
          benefits and expenses.

          Other receivables include receivables related to retrospectively
          rated policies on property-casualty business, net of allowance for
          estimated uncollectible amounts.

          Insurance policy and claims reserves represent liabilities for
          future insurance policy benefits.  Insurance reserves for
          traditional life insurance, annuities, and accident and health
          policies have been computed based upon mortality, morbidity,
          persistency and interest assumptions applicable to these coverages,
          which range

                                         29
<PAGE>
          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

          from 2.5% to 12%, including adverse deviation.  These assumptions
          consider company experience and industry standards and may be
          revised if it is determined that future experience will differ
          substantially from that previously assumed.  Property-casualty
          reserves include (1) unearned premiums representing the unexpired
          portion of policy premiums, and (2) estimated provisions for both
          reported and unreported claims incurred and related expenses.  The
          reserves are regularly adjusted based on experience.  Included in
          the insurance policy and claims reserves in the Consolidated
          Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 1994 and 1993 are
          $793 million and $803 million, respectively, of property-casualty
          loss reserves related to workers' compensation that have been
          discounted using an interest rate of 5%.

          In determining benefit and loss reserves, the Company carries on a
          continuing review of its overall position, its reserving techniques
          and reinsurance.  Reserves for property-casualty insurance losses
          represent the estimated ultimate unpaid cost of all incurred
          property and casualty claims.  Since the reserves are based on
          estimates, the ultimate liability may be more or less than such
          reserves.  The effects of changes in such estimated reserves are
          included in the results of operations in the period in which the
          estimates are changed.

          Contractholder funds represent receipts from the issuance of
          universal life, pension investment and certain individual annuity
          contracts.  Such receipts are considered deposits on investment
          contracts that do not have substantial mortality or morbidity risk. 
          Account balances are increased by interest credited and reduced by
          withdrawals, mortality charges and administrative expenses charged
          to the contractholders.  Calculations of contractholder account
          balances for investment contracts reflect lapse, withdrawal and
          interest rate assumptions (ranging from 3.4% to 8%) based on
          contract provisions, the Company's experience and industry
          standards.  Contractholder funds also include other funds that
          policyholders leave on deposit with the Company.  

          Permitted Statutory Accounting Practices.  The Travelers Insurance
          Group Inc. and its subsidiaries, domiciled principally in
          Connecticut and Massachusetts, prepare statutory financial
          statements in accordance with the accounting practices prescribed
          or permitted by the insurance departments of those states. 
          Prescribed statutory accounting practices include a variety of
          publications of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners
          as well as state laws, regulations, and general administrative
          rules.  Permitted statutory accounting practices encompass all
          accounting practices not so prescribed.  The impact of any
          permitted accounting practices on statutory surplus is not
          material.

          CONSUMER FINANCE SERVICES 

          Finance related interest and other charges are recognized as income
          using the constant yield method.  Allowances for losses are
          established by direct charges to income in amounts sufficient to
          maintain the allowance at a level management determines to be
          adequate to cover losses in the portfolio.  The allowance
          fluctuates based upon continual review of the loan portfolio and
          current economic conditions.  For financial reporting purposes,
          finance receivables are considered delinquent when they are more
          than 60 days contractually past due.  Income stops accruing on
          finance receivables when they are 90 days contractually past due. 
          If payments are made on a finance receivable that is not accruing
          income, and the receivable is no longer 90 days contractually past
          due, the accrual of income resumes.  Finance receivables are
          charged against  the allowance for losses when considered
          uncollectible.  Personal loans are considered uncollectible when
          payments are six months contractually past due and six months past
          due on a recency of payment basis.  Loans that are twelve months
          contractually past due regardless of recency of payment are charged
          off.  Recoveries on losses previously charged to the allowance are
          credited to the allowance at the time of recovery.  Consideration
          of whether to proceed with foreclosure on loans secured by real
          estate begins when a loan is 60 days past due on a contractual
          basis.  Real estate credit losses are recognized when the title to
          the property is obtained.

                                         30
<PAGE>
          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

          Fees received and direct costs incurred for the origination of
          loans are deferred and amortized over the contractual lives of the
          loans as part of interest income.  The remaining unamortized
          balances are reflected in interest income at the time that the
          loans are paid in full, renewed or charged off.


       3. Sales of Subsidiaries and Affiliates
          ------------------------------------

          During 1994, gains on sale of subsidiaries and affiliates totaled
          $254 million pre-tax and consisted of the sale in December of
          American Capital Management & Research Inc. (American Capital)
          ($162 million), the sale in November of Smith Barney's investment
          in HG Asia Holdings Ltd. ($34 million), the sale in October of
          Bankers and Shippers Insurance Company ($30 million), and the sale
          in December of the group dental insurance business of The Travelers
          Insurance Company (TIC) ($28 million). 

          During 1992, gains on sale of stock of subsidiaries and affiliates
          totaled $188 million pre-tax and consisted principally of the sale
          of Margaretten & Company, Inc. ($83 million) and the sale of a
          substantial portion of the Company's investment in Fingerhut
          Companies, Inc. (Fingerhut) ($87 million pre-tax).  Fingerhut's
          results of operations were included with those of the Company on a
          consolidated basis through December 31, 1991.  During 1992 the
          remaining investment in Fingerhut was accounted for as an equity
          investment, with the  Company's share of earnings reflected in
          "Other Income."  In 1993 the Company sold its remaining interest in
          Fingerhut.

          On January 3, 1995, the Company completed the sale of its group
          life and related businesses to Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
          (MetLife), and completed the formation of The MetraHealth
          Companies, Inc. (MetraHealth), a joint venture of the medical
          businesses of TIC and MetLife.

          The Company sold its group life business as well as related non-
          medical group insurance businesses to MetLife for $350 million. 
          The assets transferred included customer lists, books and records,
          and furniture and equipment.  In connection with the sale, TIC
          ceded 100% of its risks in the group life and related businesses to
          MetLife on an indemnity reinsurance basis, effective January 1,
          1995.  In connection with the reinsurance transaction, TIC
          transferred assets with a fair market value of approximately $1.5
          billion to MetLife, equal to the statutory reserves and other
          liabilities transferred.  

          On January 3, 1995, TIC and MetLife, and certain of their
          affiliates formed the MetraHealth joint venture by contributing
          their medical businesses to MetraHealth, in exchange for shares of
          common stock of MetraHealth.  The assets transferred included cash,
          fixed assets, customer lists, books and records, certain trademarks
          and other assets used exclusively or primarily in the medical
          businesses.  TIC also contributed all of the capital stock of its
          wholly owned subsidiary, The Travelers Employee Benefits Company,
          to MetraHealth.  The total contribution amounted to $448 million at
          carrying value on the date of contribution.  No gain was recognized
          upon the formation of the joint venture.  Upon formation of the
          joint venture TIC and its affiliates owned 50% of the outstanding
          capital stock of MetraHealth, and the other 50% was owned by
          MetLife and its affiliates.   

          In connection with the formation of the joint venture, the transfer
          of the fee based medical business (Administrative Services Only)
          and other noninsurance business to MetraHealth was completed on
          January 3, 1995.  As the medical insurance business of The
          Travelers Insurance Group comes due for renewal, and after
          obtaining regulatory approvals, the risks will be transferred to
          MetraHealth.  In the interim the related operating results for this
          medical insurance business will be reported by The Travelers
          Insurance Group. 

          All of the businesses sold to MetLife or contributed to MetraHealth
          were included in the Company's Managed Care and Employee Benefits
          Operations (MCEBO).  Revenues and net income from MCEBO for the
          year ended 1994 amounted to $3.522 billion and $169 million,
          respectively.  Beginning in 1995 the

                                         31
<PAGE>
          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

          Company's results will reflect the medical insurance business not
          yet transferred, plus its equity interest in the earnings of
          MetraHealth.

       4. Business Segment Information
          ----------------------------

          The Company is a diversified financial services company engaged in
          investment services, life and property and casualty insurance
          services and consumer finance.  Data relating to results of
          operations prior to 1994 exclude the amounts of old Travelers
          except that Corporate and Other results for 1993 include the equity
          earnings relating to the 27% purchase of old Travelers in December
          1992 (see Note 1).  Data relating to identifiable assets in 1992
          exclude amounts for old Travelers.  The following table presents
          certain information regarding these industry segments:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                   (millions)                                              1994                1993             1992
                                                                           ----                ----             ----
<S>                                                                   <C>                  <C>              <C>
                   Revenues
                   Investment Services                                   $5,690              $3,524           $1,822
                   Life Insurance Services                                7,010               1,585            1,505
                   Property & Casualty Insurance Services                 4,538                 315              316
                   Consumer Finance Services                              1,239               1,193            1,158    
                   Corporate and Other                                     (12)                 180              324
                                                                         ------               -----            -----
                                                                        $18,465              $6,797           $5,125
                                                                         ======               =====            =====
                   Income before income taxes, minority
                    interest and cumulative effect of
                    changes in accounting principles
                   Investment Services                                  $   732              $  592           $  321
                   Life Insurance Services                                  926                 428              356
                   Property & Casualty Insurance Services                   307                  65               80
                   Consumer Finance Services                                356                 360              305
                   Corporate and Other                                    (172)                  78              126 
                                                                          -----               -----            -----
                                                                        $ 2,149              $1,523           $1,188
                                                                          =====               =====            =====

                   Income before cumulative effect of changes
                    in accounting principles
                   Investment Services                                  $   422              $  336           $  191
                   Life Insurance Services                                  590                 265              233
                   Property & Casualty Insurance Services
                     (after minority interest of $22 in 1993)               249                  23               54
                   Consumer Finance Services                                227                 232              198
                   Corporate and Other                                    (162)                  95               80
                                                                         ------               -----            -----
                                                                         $1,326              $  951           $  756
                                                                         ======               =====            =====

                   Identifiable assets
                   Investment Services                                $  45,618            $ 31,864          $10,439
                   Life Insurance Services                               38,473              40,300            4,727
                   Property & Casualty Insurance Services                22,663              20,515              885
                   Consumer Finance Services                              7,729               7,155            6,495
                   Corporate and Other                                      814               1,456            1,605
                                                                       --------            --------           ------
                                                                       $115,297            $101,290          $24,151
                                                                        =======             =======           ======
</TABLE>

                                         32
<PAGE>



          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)


          The Investment Services segment consists of investment banking,
          securities brokerage, asset management and other financial services
          provided through Smith Barney and its subsidiaries, investment
          management services provided by RCM Capital Management and mutual
          fund management and distribution services provided through American
          Capital (sold in December 1994, see Note 3).  

          The Life Insurance Services segment includes individual and group
          life insurance, accident and health insurance, annuities and
          investment products, which are offered primarily through The
          Travelers Insurance Company and Primerica Financial Services (PFS).

          The Property & Casualty Insurance Services segment provides
          property-casualty insurance, including workers' compensation,
          liability, automobile, property and multiple-peril to businesses
          and other institutions and automobile and homeowners insurance to
          individuals.  Property-casualty insurance policies are issued
          primarily by The Travelers Indemnity Company and its subsidiary and
          affiliated property-casualty insurance companies, which now include
          Gulf Insurance Company. 

          The Consumer Finance Services segment includes consumer lending
          (including secured and unsecured personal loans, real estate-
          secured loans and consumer financing) and credit cards.  Also
          included in this segment are credit-related insurance services
          provided through American Health and Life Insurance Company (AHL).

          Corporate and Other consists of corporate staff and treasury
          operations, certain corporate income and expenses that have not
          been allocated to the operating subsidiaries, including gains and
          losses from the sale of stock of subsidiaries and affiliates, the
          Company's approximately 27% interest in old Travelers during 1993
          and the results of Fingerhut for 1992.   

          Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles, and capital
          expenditures for property, plant and equipment and related
          depreciation expense are not material to any of the business
          segments.  Intersegment sales and international operations are not
          significant.

          For gains and special charges included in each segment, see
          Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
          Results of Operations.

       5.   Investments 
            -----------

          Fair values of investments in fixed maturities are based on quoted
          market prices or dealer quotes or, if these  are not available,
          discounted expected cash flows using market rates commensurate with
          the credit quality and maturity of the investment.






                                         33




<PAGE>



          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)



       The amortized cost and estimated market values of investments in fixed
       maturities were as follows:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                      Available for Sale                               Held to Maturity
                         ---------------------------------------------    ---------------------------------------------
                          Amortized    Gross Unrealized      Market         Amortized   Gross Unrealized   Market
                                     ---------------------                            ---------------------
December 31, 1994           Cost       Gains      Losses     Value            Cost       Gains    Losses   Value
-----------------        ---------------------------------------------    ---------------------------------------------

(millions)
<S>                         <C>         <C>       <C>        <C>              <C>        <C>      <C>      <C>
Mortgage-backed
 securities-principally
 obligations of U.S.
 Government agencies        $ 5,227         $ 3    $(401)    $ 4,829              $84       $12      $ -    $  96

U.S. Treasury
 securities
 and obligations of
 U.S. Government
 corporations
 and agencies                 4,652           4     (426)      4,230                -         -        -        -

Obligations of states
 and political
 subdivisions                 4,093           5     (369)      3,729                6         -        -        6

Debt securities issued
 by foreign governments         562           1      (32)        531                -         -        -        -

Corporate securities         14,724          22     (873)     13,873                6         -        -        6
                         ---------------------------------------------    ---------------------------------------------
   Totals                   $29,258         $35   $(2,101)   $27,192              $96       $12      $ -     $108
                         =============================================    =============================================

<CAPTION>
                                      Available for Sale                               Held to Maturity
                         ---------------------------------------------    ---------------------------------------------
                          Amortized    Gross Unrealized      Market         Amortized   Gross Unrealized   Market
                                     ---------------------                            ---------------------
December 31, 1993           Cost       Gains      Losses     Value            Cost       Gains    Losses   Value
-----------------        ---------------------------------------------    ---------------------------------------------

(millions)
<S>                         <C>         <C>       <C>        <C>              <C>        <C>      <C>      <C>

Mortgage-backed
 securities-principally
 obligations of U.S.
 Government agencies        $ 5,754        $ 26   $(27)    $ 5,753            $118        $22      $ -   $  140

U.S. Treasury
 securities
 and obligations of
 U.S. Government
 corporations
 and agencies                 4,556          82    (11)      4,627              20          -        -       20
Obligations of states
 and political
 subdivisions                 3,062          38     (1)      3,099               7          1        -        8

Debt securities issued
by foreign governments          535           8       -        543               6          -        -        6

Corporate securities         14,202         249    (35)     14,416              26          1        -       27
                         ---------------------------------------------    ---------------------------------------------
   Totals                   $28,109        $403   $(74)    $28,438            $177        $24       $-     $201
                         =============================================    =============================================
</TABLE>


                                         34
<PAGE>
          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

       The amortized cost and estimated market value at December 31, 1994 by
       contractual maturity are shown below.  Actual maturities will differ from
       contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or
       prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.

                                                        Estimated
       (millions)                              Amortized  Market 
                                                   Cost    Value 
                                                -------- --------
       Due in one year or less                   $ 1,508  $ 1,484
       Due after one year through five years       6,977    6,643
       Due after five years through ten years      8,342    7,758
       Due after ten years                         7,216    6,490
                                                  ------   ------
                                                  24,043   22,375
       Mortgage-backed securities                  5,311    4,925
                                                  ------   ------
                                                 $29,354  $27,300
                                                  ======   ======

       Realized gains and losses on fixed maturities for the years ended
       December 31, were as follows:

       (millions)                         1994      1993     1992
                                          ----      ----     ----

       Realized gains
         Pre-tax                          $ 52      $168     $ 61
                                           ---       ---      ---
         After-tax                        $ 34      $109     $ 40
                                           ---       ---      ---
       Realized losses
         Pre-tax                          $201      $  2     $  1
                                           ---       ---      ---
         After-tax                        $131      $  1    $   -
                                           ---       ---     ----

       Net realized gains on equity securities and other investments, after-tax,
       amounted to $18 million, $14 million and $25 million for the years ended
       December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.  Net unrealized gains
       (losses) on equity securities at December 31, 1994 and 1993 were $(6)
       million and $42 million, respectively.

       The Company had industry concentrations of corporate bonds and fixed
       income securities at December 31 as follows: 

       (millions)                                   1994     1993
                                                  ------   ------

       Finance                                    $2,040   $2,234
       Banking*                                   $1,718   $1,607
       Electric utilities                         $1,676   $1,850

       * Includes $547 million in 1994 and $515 million in 1993 of primarily
       short-term investments and cash equivalents issued by foreign banks.

       At December 31, significant concentrations of mortgage loans and real
       estate were for properties located in highly populated areas in the
       states listed below:

                                 Mortgage Loans             Real Estate
                           -------------------------  -------------------------
       (millions)              1994      1993           1994     1993
                               ----      ----           ----     ----

       California            $1,246    $1,471           $ 11    $  33
       New York              $  589    $  836           $129    $  90
       Texas                 $  395    $  600           $ 79    $ 192
       Florida               $  435    $  583           $ 15    $ 111
       Illinois              $  375    $  517           $ 48    $  88

                                         35
<PAGE>


          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

       Other mortgage loan and real estate investments are dispersed throughout
       the United States, with no combined holdings in any other state exceeding
       $400 million.


       Aggregate annual maturities on mortgage loans are as follows:


           (millions)

           Past maturity                        $  219
           1995                                    734
           1996                                    508
           1997                                    590
           1998                                    671
           1999                                    640
           Thereafter                            2,054
                                                ------
                                                $5,416
                                                ======


    6.  Securities Borrowed, Loaned and Subject to Repurchase Agreements
        ----------------------------------------------------------------

        Securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell, at their
        respective carrying values, consisted of the following at December 31:

                (millions)                     1994          1993
                                            -------       -------

                Resale agreements (by
                  counterparty)           
                    Brokers and dealers     $ 3,703       $ 2,340
                    Commercial banks,    
                      foreign banks
                      and savings and loans   2,799           555
                    Other                     1,804         1,386
                                            -------       -------
                    Total resale agreements   8,306         4,281
                    Deposits paid for   
                     securities borrowed     17,349         9,072
                                            -------       -------
                                            $25,655       $13,353
                                            =======       =======











                                         36
<PAGE>



          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

        Securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, at their
        respective carrying values, consisted of the following at December 31:


               (millions)                        1994         1993
                                             --------      ------- 

               Repurchase agreements (by
                counterparty)           
                   Brokers and dealers       $ 4,910       $ 1,904
                   Commercial banks, foreign
                     banks and
                     savings and loans         2,852         1,600
                   Municipalities              3,023           301
                   Corporations                1,145           517
                   Other                       2,692           953
                                              ------        ------
                 Total repurchase agreements  14,622         5,275
               Deposits received for
                 securities loaned             6,998         4,869
                                              ------        ------
                                             $21,620       $10,144
                                              ======        ======


        The resale and repurchase agreements represent collateralized financing
        transactions used to generate net interest income and facilitate trading
        activity.  These instruments are short-term in nature (usually 30 days
        or less) and are collateralized principally by U.S. Government and
        mortgage-backed securities.  The carrying amounts of these instruments
        approximate fair value because of the relatively short period of time
        between the origination of the instruments and their expected
        realization.  


    7.  Brokerage Receivables and Brokerage Payables
        --------------------------------------------

        The Company has receivables and payables for financial instruments
        purchased from and sold to brokers and dealers and customers.  The
        Company is exposed to risk of loss from the inability of brokers and
        dealers or customers to pay for purchases or to deliver the financial
        instrument sold, in which case the Company would have to sell or
        purchase the financial instruments at prevailing market prices.    

        The Company seeks to protect itself from the risks associated with
        customer activities by requiring customers to maintain margin collateral
        in compliance with regulatory and internal guidelines.  Margin levels
        are monitored daily, and customers deposit additional collateral as
        required.  Where customers cannot meet collateral requirements, the
        Company will liquidate sufficient underlying financial instruments to
        bring the customer into compliance with the required margin level.

        Exposure to credit risk is impacted by market volatility, which may
        impair the ability of clients to satisfy their obligations to the
        Company.  Credit limits are established and closely monitored for
        customers and brokers and dealers engaged in forward and futures and
        other transactions deemed to be credit-sensitive.








                                         37
<PAGE>

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

        Brokerage receivables and brokerage payables, which arise in the normal
        course of business, consisted of the following at December 31: 

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
             (millions)                                             1994             1993
                                                                    ----            -----
<S>                                                              <C>              <C>
             Receivables from brokers and dealers                 $  736           $1,063
             Receivables from customers                            7,502            7,104
                                                                   -----            -----
               Total brokerage receivables                        $8,238           $8,167
                                                                   =====            =====


             Payables to brokers and dealers                      $1,159           $1,841
             Payables to customers                                 6,648            5,171
                                                                   -----            -----
               Total brokerage payables                           $7,807           $7,012
                                                                   =====            =====
</TABLE>

        Included in payables to brokers and dealers as of December 31, 1994 and
        1993 is approximately $338 million and $966 million, respectively, of
        payables due LBI in connection with LBI's proprietary transactions.


    8.  Trading Securities
        ------------------

        Trading securities at market value consisted of the following at
        December 31:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   1994                                 1993
                                                    ----------------------------------    ----------------------------------
                                                                         Securities                           Securities
                                                                            Sold                                 Sold
                                                       Securities          Not Yet          Securities          Not Yet
              (millions)                                  Owned           Purchased           Owned            Purchased
                                                    --------------    ----------------    -------------    -----------------
<S>                                                 <C>               <C>                 <C>              <C>
              Obligations of U.S. Government and
                agencies                                   $3,670             $3,658            $2,233             $3,258

              State and municipal obligations                 978                 16               839                 42

              Corporate debt and collateralized 
                mortgage obligations                        1,688                424             2,214                198

              Corporate convertibles, equities                                                        
                and other securities                          609                247               577                337
                                                            -----              -----             -----              -----

                                                           $6,945             $4,345            $5,863             $3,835
                                                            =====              =====             =====              =====
</TABLE>

        Carrying values are based on quoted market prices or dealer quotes.  If
        a quoted market price is not available, fair value is estimated using
        quoted market prices for similar securities.  Securities sold not yet
        purchased must be acquired in the marketplace at prevailing prices. 
        Accordingly, these transactions may result in market risk since the
        ultimate purchase price may exceed the amount recognized in the
        financial statements.


                                         38
<PAGE>

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)


    9.  Consumer Finance Receivables
        ----------------------------

        Consumer finance receivables, net of unearned finance charges of $674
        million and $613 million at December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively,
        consisted of the following:

        (millions)                                 1994     1993 
                                                   ----    -----

        Real estate-secured loans                $2,845   $2,706 
        Personal loans                            2,875    2,495 
        Credit cards                                712      697 
        Sales finance and other                     453      444 
                                                  -----   ------
        Consumer finance receivables              6,885    6,342 
        Accrued interest receivable                  43       42 
        Allowance for credit losses                (182)    (168) 
                                                  -----   ------
        Net consumer finance receivables         $6,746   $6,216 
                                                  =====   ======

       An analysis of the allowance for credit losses on consumer finance
       receivables at December 31, was as follows:

          (millions)                               1994      1993   1992
                                                   ----     -----   ----

          Balance, January 1                       $168   $  169  $  167
          Provision for credit losses               152      134     165
          Amounts written off                      (163)    (163)   (184)
          Recovery of amounts previously written off 25       23      21
          Allowance on receivables purchased          -        5       -
                                                  -----   ------  ------
          Balance, December 31                   $  182   $  168  $  169
                                                  =====    =====   =====
          Net outstandings                       $6,885   $6,342  $5,788
                                                  =====    =====   =====
          Ratio of allowance for credit losses 
            to net outstandings                   2.64%    2.64%   2.91%
                                                  ====     ====    ====

        Contractual maturities of receivables before deducting unearned finance
        charges and excluding accrued interest were as follows:

<TABLE><CAPTION>
                                          Receivables 
                                          Outstanding                                                       Due
            (millions)                    December 31,       Due         Due        Due         Due        After
                                              1994          1995        1996       1997        1998         1998
                                          -----------     ------      ------     ------      ------       ------
            <S>                           <C>             <C>         <C>       <C>          <C>          <C>  
            Real estate-secured loans       $2,908        $  185      $  191    $   200      $  206       $2,126
            Personal loans                   3,400         1,046         931        717         414          292
            Credit cards                       711            62          57         52          47          493
            Sales finance and other            540           245         133         67          36           59
                                             -----         -----       -----      -----       -----        -----
                Total                       $7,559        $1,538      $1,312     $1,036      $  703       $2,970
                                             =====         =====       =====      =====       =====        =====
            Percentage                        100%           20%         18%        14%          9%          39%
                                             =====         =====       =====      =====       =====        =====
</TABLE>

        Contractual terms average 12 years on real estate-secured loans and 4
        years on personal loans.  Experience has shown that a substantial amount
        of the receivables will be renewed or repaid prior to contractual
        maturity dates.  Accordingly, the foregoing tabulation should not be
        regarded as a forecast of future cash collections.


                                         39

<PAGE>

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

        The Company has a geographically diverse consumer finance loan
        portfolio.  At December 31, the distribution by state was as follows:

                                                    1994     1993
                                                    ----   ------
        Ohio                                         13%      13%
        North Carolina                               10%      10%
        South Carolina                                7%       7%
        Pennsylvania                                  6%       6%
        Maryland                                      5%       6%
        California                                    5%       5%
        Texas                                         5%       5%
        All other states*                            49%      48%
                                                    ----     ----
          Total                                     100%     100%
                                                    ====     ====

        * None of the remaining states individually accounts for more than 4% 
          of total consumer finance receivables.

        The estimated fair value of the consumer finance receivables portfolio
        depends on the methodology selected to value such portfolio (i.e., exit
        value versus entry value).  Exit value represents a valuation of the
        portfolio based upon sales of comparable portfolios which takes into
        account the value of customer relationships and the current level of
        funding costs.  Under the exit value methodology, the estimated fair
        value of the receivables portfolio at December 31, 1994 is approximately
        $618 million above the recorded carrying value.  Entry value is
        determined by comparing the portfolio yields to the yield at which new
        loans are being originated.  Under the entry value methodology, the
        estimated fair value of the receivables portfolio at December 31, 1994
        is approximately equal to the aggregate carrying value due to the
        increase in variable rate receivables whose rates are periodically reset
        and the fact that the average yield on fixed rate receivables is
        approximately equal to that on new fixed rate loans made at year end
        1994.  Fair values included in Note 20 are based on the exit value
        methodology.

    10. Debt
        ----

        Investment banking and brokerage borrowings consisted of the following
        at December 31: 

        (millions)                                1994      1993
                                                  ----      ----
                                                      
        Commercial paper                        $2,455    $1,401
        Secured borrowings                         185       105
        Unsecured borrowings                     1,141       693
        Notes to LBI                               593     1,255
                                                 -----     -----
                                                $4,374    $3,454
                                                 =====     =====
        Weighted average interest rate 
         at end of period, excluding 
         non-interest bearing balances           5.8%      3.3%
                                                 =====     ====

        Investment banking and brokerage borrowings are short-term and include
        commercial paper, secured and unsecured bank loans used to finance Smith
        Barney's operations, including the securities settlement process, and
        notes issued to LBI inconnection with the Shearson Businesses acquired.
        The secured and unsecured bank loans bear interest at fluctuating rates
        based primarily on the federal funds interest rate.  Notes payable to
        LBI at December 31, 1994 represent a non-interest bearing note (the
        Clearing Note) outstanding in connection with LBI's activities under the
        Clearing Agreement.  The Clearing Note, which matures upon termination
        of the Clearing Agreement (see Note 1), fluctuates daily based on LBI's
        borrowing activities.  Notes payable to LBI at December 31, 1993 also
        included a $586 million variable rate note which was issued as partial
        payment for the businesses acquired and was repaid in January 1994.  In
        1993, Smith Barney put in place a commercial paper program that consists
        of both discounted and interest

                                         40
<PAGE>

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

        bearing paper and is currently authorized up to $2.5 billion.  Smith
        Barney also has substantial borrowing arrangements consisting of
        facilities that it has been advised are available, but where no
        contractual lending obligation exists.

        At December 31, 1994 and 1993, the market value of the securities
        pledged as collateral for short-term brokerage borrowings was $229
        million and $124 million, respectively, including $163 million of
        customer margin securities at December 31, 1994. 

        At December 31, short-term borrowings consisted of commercial paper
        outstanding with weighted average interest rates as follows:  

<TABLE><CAPTION>

            (millions)                                              1994                          1993 
                                                         --------------------------   ----------------------------
                                                         Outstanding  Interest Rate    Outstanding   Interest Rate
                                                         -----------  -------------    -----------   -------------
            <S>                                          <C>          <C>              <C>           <C>     
            The Travelers Inc.                              $  101        5.83%           $329           3.43%
            Commercial Credit Company                        2,305        5.89%          2,206           3.34%
            The Travelers Insurance Company                     74        6.02%              -
                                                             -----                       -----
                                                            $2,480                      $2,535
                                                             =====                       =====
</TABLE>

        The Travelers Inc. (the Parent), Commercial Credit Company (CCC) and The
        Travelers Insurance Company (TIC) issue commercial paper directly to
        investors.  Each maintains unused credit availability under its
        respective bank lines of credit at least equal to the amount of its
        outstanding commercial paper.  Each may borrow under its revolving
        credit facilities at various interest rate options and compensates the
        banks for the facilities through commitment fees.  

        In 1994 the Parent, CCC and TIC entered into an agreement with a
        syndicate of banks to provide $1.5 billion of revolving credit, to be
        allocated to any of the Parent, CCC or TIC.  The participation of TIC in
        this agreement is limited to $300 million.  The revolving credit
        facility consists of a 364-day revolving credit facility in the amount
        of $300 million and a 5-year revolving credit facility in the amount of
        $1.2 billion.  At December 31, 1994, $650 million was allocated to the
        Parent, $650 million was allocated to CCC and $200 million was allocated
        to TIC.  Under this facility the Company is required to maintain a
        certain level of consolidated stockholders' equity (as defined in the
        agreement).  At December 31, 1994, the Company exceeded this requirement
        by approximately $2.7 billion.

        At December 31, 1994, CCC also had committed and available revolving
        credit facilities on a stand alone basis of $2.360 billion, of which
        $600 million expires in 1995 and $1.760 billion expires in 1999.

        CCC is limited by covenants in its revolving credit agreements as to the
        amount of dividends and advances that may be made to the Parent or its
        affiliated companies.  At December 31, 1994, CCC would have been able to
        remit $270 million to the Parent under its most restrictive covenants or
        regulatory requirements.

        The carrying value of short-term borrowings approximates fair value.


                                         41
<PAGE>

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

        Long-term debt, including its current portion, and final maturity dates
        were as follows at December 31:

        (millions)                                   1994        1993
                                                     ----        ----
        The Travelers Inc.  
        8.6% Notes due 1994                       $     -     $     93
        8 3/8% Notes due 1996                          100         100
        7 5/8% Notes due 1997                          185         185
        5 3/4% Notes due 1998                          250         250
        7 3/4% Notes due 1999                          100         100
        6 1/8% Notes due 2000                          200         200
        9 1/2% Senior Notes due 2002                   300         300
        8 5/8% Debentures due 2007                     100         100
        Other indebtedness, 5 7/8% - 8 7/8% 
          due 1996 - 2007                               13          13
        ESOP note guarantee                             97         125
        Debt premium (discount), net                    32          38
                                                     -----       -----
                                                     1,377       1,504
                                                     -----       -----

        Commercial Credit Company 
        8.29% to 12.85% Medium-Term Notes 
          due 1994-1995                                 10          55
        8% Notes due 1994                                -         100
        12.7% Notes due 1994                             -          15
        6.95% Notes due 1994                             -         200
        8.45% Notes due 1994                             -         100
        9 7/8% Notes due 1995                          150         150
        9.2% Notes due 1995                            100         100
        6.25% Notes due 1995                           100         100
        7.7% Notes due 1995                            150         150
        8.1% Notes due 1995                            150         150
        8 3/8% Notes due 1995                          150         150
        6.375% Notes due 1996                          200         200
        7.375% Notes due 1996                          150         150
        8% Notes due 1996                              100         100
        6.75% Notes due 1997                           200         200
        8 1/8% Notes due 1997                          150         150
        5.70% Notes due 1998                           100         100
        5 1/2% Notes due 1998                          100         100
        8 1/2% Notes due 1998                          100         100
        6.70% Notes due 1999                           150         150
        10% Notes due 1999                             100         100
        9.6% Notes due 1999                            100         100
        6.00% Notes due 2000                           100         100
        5 3/4% Notes due 2000                          200         200
        6 1/8% Notes due 2000                          100         100
        6.00% Notes due 2000                           150         150
        8.25% Notes due 2001                           300           -
        5.9% Notes due 2003                            200         200


                                         42
<PAGE>

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

        7.875% Notes due 2004                          200           -
        10% Notes due 2008                             150         150
        10% Debentures due 2009                        100         100
        8.7% Debentures due 2009                       150         150
        8.7% Debentures due 2010                       100         100
                                                     -----       -----
                                                     4,010       3,970
                                                     -----       -----
        Smith Barney
        Revolving credit facility                      400         825
        7.4% Medium-Term Notes due 1996                 50           -
        5 3/8% Notes due 1996                          150         150
        6.0% Notes due 1997                            200           -
        5 5/8% Notes due 1998                          150         150
        5 1/2% Notes due 1999                          200           -
        7 7/8% Notes due 1999                          150           -
        6 5/8% Notes due 2000                          150         150
        Capital Note with LBI due 1995                 150         100
                                                     -----       -----
                                                     1,600       1,375
                                                     -----       -----
        The Travelers Insurance Group
        12% GNMA/FNMA - collateralized obligations      88         132
        Other indebtedness                               -          10
                                                     -----       -----
                                                        88         142
                                                     -----       -----
                                                    $7,075      $6,991
                                                     =====       =====

        The Company has guaranteed the loan obligation of its Employee Stock
        Ownership Plan (ESOP) (see Note 14).  The minimum principal payments on
        the ESOP loan obligation to be made in 1995, 1996 and 1997 are $30
        million, $32 million and $35 million, respectively.

        Debt discount or premium is being amortized to interest expense using
        the effective interest method over the remaining maturities of the
        related debt obligations.

        In May 1994, Smith Barney renegotiated its three-year revolving credit
        agreement (the "Agreement") with a bank syndicate.  The amendment to the
        Agreement extended the term by one year until May 1997 and increased the
        amount of the facility from $625 million to $1.0 billion.  As of
        December 31, 1994, $400 million was borrowed under the Agreement.  In
        addition, in May 1994, Smith Barney entered into a $750 million, 364-day
        revolving credit agreement with a bank syndicate.  As of December 31,
        1994, there were no borrowings outstanding under this new facility.

        Smith Barney is limited by covenants in its revolving credit facility as
        to the amount of dividends that may be paid to the Parent.  At December
        31, 1994, Smith Barney would have been able to remit approximately $500
        million to the Parent under its most restrictive covenants.


                                         43

<PAGE>

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

        Aggregate annual maturities for the next five years on long-term debt
        obligations excluding principal payments on the ESOP loan obligation and
        the 12% GNMA/FNMA collateralized obligations, are as follows:

               (millions)

                     1995        $960
                     1996        $750
                     1997      $1,135
                     1998        $700
                     1999        $800

        The fair value of the Company's long-term debt is estimated based on the
        quoted market price for the same or similar issues or on current rates
        offered to the Company for debt of the same remaining maturities.  At
        December 31, 1994 the carrying value and the fair value of the Company's
        long-term debt were: 

        (millions)                              Carrying     Fair
                                                  Value     Value
                                                --------   ------
        The Travelers Inc.                        $1,377   $1,314
        Commercial Credit                          4,010    3,926
        Smith Barney                               1,600    1,531
        The Travelers Insurance Group                 88       96
                                                   -----    -----
                                                  $7,075   $6,867
                                                   =====    =====

    11. Insurance Policy and Claims Reserves
        ------------------------------------

        Insurance policy and claims reserves consisted of the following at
        December 31:

        (millions)                                  1994     1993
                                                    ----     ----

        Benefit and loss reserves:
          Property-casualty                      $13,872   $13,805
          Accident and health                      1,029       857
          Life and annuity                         8,603     8,490
        Unearned premiums                          2,276     2,307
        Policy and contract claims                 1,304     1,347
                                                  ------    ------
                                                 $27,084   $26,806
                                                  ======    ======



                                         44
<PAGE>

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

        The table below is a reconciliation of beginning and ending property-
        casualty reserve balances for loss and loss adjustment expenses (LAE)
        for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992.  Loss provisions
        and payments for 1993 and 1992 reflect only the activity of Gulf
        Insurance Company.

<TABLE><CAPTION>

            (millions)                                                              1994           1993           1992 
                                                                                    ----           ----           ----
            <S>                                                                  <C>            <C>            <C>
            Losses and LAE at beginning of year                                  $13,805        $   313        $   296 
                Less reinsurance recoverables on unpaid losses                     3,615             85             74 
                                                                                  ------        -------        -------
            Net balance at beginning of year                                      10,190            228            222 
                                                                                  ------        -------        -------
            Provision for losses and LAE for claims arising in the
              current year                                                         3,201            185            185 
            Estimated losses and LAE for claims arising
              in prior years                                                        (248)                           (6)
            Increase for purchase of old Travelers                                                9,938                
                                                                                --------         ------       --------
                    Total increases                                                2,953         10,123            179 
                                                                                  ------         ------         ------
            Losses and LAE payments for claims arising in:
                Current year                                                         989             67             80 
                Prior years                                                        1,903             94             93 
                                                                                  ------        -------        -------
                    Total payments                                                 2,892            161            173 
                                                                                  ------        -------        -------
            Net balances at end of year                                           10,251         10,190            228 
                Plus reinsurance recoverables on unpaid losses                     3,621          3,615             85 
                                                                                  ------         ------        -------
            Losses and LAE at end of year                                        $13,872        $13,805       $    313 
                                                                                  ------         ------        -------
</TABLE>

        In 1994, estimated losses and LAE for claims arising in prior years
        includes favorable loss development in Personal Lines automobile and
        homeowners coverage of $100 million, offset by unfavorable development
        of $100 million for Commercial Lines asbestos and environmental claims
        from 1985 and prior.  In addition, in 1994 Commercial Lines experienced
        favorable prior year loss development in workers' compensation, other
        liability and commercial automobile product lines in its National
        business for post-1985 accident years.  This favorable development
        amounted to $261 million, however, since the business to which it
        relates is subject to retrospective rating premium adjustments, the net
        impact on results of operations is minimal. 

        The increase for purchase of old Travelers includes a purchase
        accounting adjustment of $225 million.  The adjustment reflects
        appellate court decisions that resolved issues concerning obligations of
        insurers for environmental claims under liability policies in certain
        jurisdictions, and the measurement of amounts recoverable for asbestos
        claims from reinsurers based upon commutation of reinsurers' liabilities
        at a discount.  The $225 million was included in other liabilities at
        December 31, 1993. 

        The property-casualty loss and LAE reserves include $854 million and
        $885 million for asbestos and environmental related claims net of
        reinsurance at December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively.  Travelers
        Insurance carries on a continuing review of its overall position, its
        reserving techniques and reinsurance recoverable.  However, the industry
        does not have a standard method of calculating claim activity for
        environmental and asbestos losses.  In each of these areas of exposure,
        Travelers Insurance has endeavored to litigate individual cases and
        settle claims on favorable terms.  Given the vagaries of court coverage
        decisions, plaintiffs' expanded theories of liability, the risks
        inherent in major litigation and other uncertainties, it is not
        presently possible to quantify the ultimate exposure or range of
        exposure represented by these claims to the Company's financial
        condition, results of operations or liquidity.  The Company believes
        that it is reasonably possible that the outcome of the uncertainties
        regarding environmental and asbestos claims

                                         45
<PAGE>

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)


        could result in a liability exceeding the reserves by an amount that
        would be material to operating results in a future period.  However, it
        is not likely these claims will have a material adverse effect on the
        Company's financial condition or liquidity.

    12. Reinsurance    
        -----------

        The Company's insurance operations cede insurance in order to limit
        losses, minimize exposure on large risks, provide additional capacity
        for future growth, and effect business sharing arrangements.  Life
        reinsurance is accomplished through various plans of reinsurance,
        primarily coinsurance, modified coinsurance and yearly renewable term. 
        Property-casualty reinsurance is placed on both a quota-share and excess
        basis.  The property-casualty insurance subsidiaries also participate as
        a servicing carrier for, and a member of, several pools and
        associations.  Reinsurance ceded arrangements do not discharge the
        insurance subsidiaries or the Company as the primary insurer. 
        Reinsurance amounts included in the Consolidated Statement of Income
        were: 

                                                           Ceded to
        (millions)                              Gross        Other        Net
                                                Amount     Companies     Amount
                                                ------     ---------     ------
        Year ended December 31, 1994
        ----------------------------
        Premiums
           Life insurance                      $1,878        $(295)      $1,583
           Accident and health insurance        2,591         (107)       2,484
           Property-casualty insurance          5,052       (1,529)       3,523
                                                -----       ------        -----
                                               $9,521      $(1,931)      $7,590
                                                =====       ======        =====

        Claims                                 $8,126      $(1,357)      $6,769
                                                =====       ======        =====

        Year ended December 31, 1993
        ----------------------------
        Premiums
           Life insurance                      $1,178        $(284)     $   894
           Accident and health insurance          385          (56)         329
           Property-casualty insurance            434         (177)         257
                                                -----         ----        -----
                                               $1,997        $(517)      $1,480
                                                =====         ====        =====

        Claims                                 $1,096        $(287)      $  809
                                                =====         ====       ======







                                         46
<PAGE>

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

                                                   Ceded to
                                           Gross     Other       Net
        (millions)                        Amount  Companies    Amount
                                          ------  ---------    ------

        Year ended December 31, 1992
        ----------------------------
        Premiums
           Life insurance                 $1,221     $(312)    $  909
           Accident and health insurance     443       (39)       404
           Property-casualty insurance       562      (181)       381
                                           -----      ----      -----
                                          $2,226     $(532)    $1,694
                                           =====      ====      =====

        Claims                            $1,056     $(271)    $  785
                                           =====      ====      =====
     
        Reinsurance recoverables at December 31 include amounts recoverable on
        unpaid losses, paid losses and unearned premiums and were as follows: 

        (millions)                                1994       1993
                                                  ----       ----

        Reinsurance Recoverables
        ------------------------
         Life business                          $  758     $  739
         Property and Casualty business:
           Pools and associations                2,524      2,585
           Other reinsurance                     1,744      1,605
                                                 -----      -----
             Total                              $5,026     $4,929
                                                 =====      =====

    13.  Income Taxes
         ------------

        The provision for income taxes (before minority interest) for the years
        ended December 31 was as follows:

        (millions)                       1994     1993      1992 
                                         ----     ----      ----

        Current:                                       
         Federal                         $378     $406      $350 
         Foreign                           22        3         5 
         State                             80       75        53 
                                          ---      ---       ---
                                          480      484       408 
                                          ---      ---       ---
        Deferred:
         Federal                          334       64        26 
         Foreign                            1       (2)       (2)
         State                              8        4         - 
                                         ----      ---       ---
                                          343       66        24 
                                         ----      ---       ---
         Total                           $823     $550      $432 
                                          ===      ===       ===


                                         47
<PAGE>

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

        Deferred income taxes at December 31 related to the following:

<TABLE><CAPTION>

            (millions)                                                             1994            1993
                                                                                   ----            ----
            <S>                                                                  <C>             <C>   
            Deferred tax assets:
              Differences in  computing policy reserves                          $1,288          $1,353
              Deferred compensation                                                 214             145
              Employee benefits                                                     213             221
              Investments                                                         1,074             432
              Other deferred tax assets                                             765           1,015
                                                                                  -----           -----
            Gross deferred tax assets                                             3,554           3,166 
                                                                                  -----           -----
            Valuation allowance                                                     100             100 
                                                                                  -----           -----
            Deferred tax assets after valuation allowance                         3,454           3,066
                                                                                  -----           -----
            Deferred tax liabilities:
              Deferred policy acquisition costs and
                value of insurance in force                                       (608)           (576)
              Investment management contracts                                     (244)           (277)
              Other deferred tax liabilities                                      (273)           (355)
                                                                                -------         -------
            Gross deferred tax liabilities                                      (1,125)         (1,208)
                                                                                -------         -------
            Net deferred tax asset                                             $  2,329        $  1,858
                                                                                =======         =======
</TABLE>

        The reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the
        Company's effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31 was
        as follows:

                                                    1994    1993     1992
                                                    ----    ----     ----
        Federal statutory rate                     35.0%    35.0%    34.0%
        Limited taxability of investment income    (3.5)    (1.6)     (.8)
        State and foreign income taxes      
          (net of federal income tax benefit)       2.7      3.4      2.9
        Sale of subsidiaries                        2.9        -      (.3)
        Equity in income of old Travelers             -     (2.2)      -
        Other, net                                  1.2      1.5       .5
                                                   ----     ----     ----
        Effective income tax rate                  38.3%    36.1%    36.3%
                                                   ====     ====     ====

        Tax benefits allocated directly to stockholders' equity for the years
        ended December 31, 1994 and 1993 were $35 million and $79 million,
        respectively. 

        As a result of the acquisition of old Travelers, a valuation allowance
        of $100 million was established in 1993 to reduce the net deferred tax
        asset on investment losses to the amount that, based upon available
        evidence, is more likely than not to be realized.  The $100 million
        valuation allowance is sufficient to cover any capital losses on
        investments that may exceed the capital gains able to be generated in
        the life insurance group's consolidated federal income tax return based
        upon management's best estimate of the character of the reversing
        temporary differences.  Reversal of the valuation allowance is
        contingent upon the recognition of future capital gains or a change in
        circumstances which causes


                                         48
<PAGE>
          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

        the recognition of the benefits to become more likely than not.  The
        initial recognition of any benefit produced by the reversal of the
        valuation allowance will be recognized by reducing goodwill.

        The net deferred tax asset, after the valuation allowance of $100
        million, relates to temporary differences that are  expected to reverse
        as net ordinary deductions, except for a deferred tax asset of $723
        million which relates to the unrealized loss on fixed maturity
        investments.  Management has the intent and the ability not to realize
        the unrealized loss except to the extent of offsetting capital gains. 
        The Company will have to generate approximately $4.6 billion of taxable
        income, before the reversal of the temporary differences, primarily over
        the next 10-15 years, to realize the remainder of the deferred tax
        asset, exclusive of the unrealized loss on fixed maturity investments. 
        Management expects to realize the remainder of the deferred tax asset
        based upon its expectation of future taxable income, after the reversal
        of these deductible temporary differences, of at least $1 billion
        annually.  The Company has reported pre-tax financial statement income
        exceeding $1.6 billion, on average, over the last three years and has
        incurred taxable income of approximately $1 billion, on average, over
        the same period of time.  At December 31, 1994, the Company has no
        ordinary or capital loss carryforwards.

    14. Preferred Stock and Stockholders' Equity
        ----------------------------------------

        Preferred Stock
        The following table sets forth the Company's preferred stock outstanding
        at December 31, 1994 and 1993:

                                             Liquidation
                                    Number   Preference   Carrying
                                  of Shares  Per Share      Value 
                                  ---------  ----------   --------
                                                         (millions)
        Series A                  1,200,000     $250        $300  
        Series B                  2,500,000      $50         125  
        Series D                  7,500,000      $50         375  
                                 ----------                  ---
                                 11,200,000                 $800  
                                 ==========                  ===

        Series C                  4,406,431   $53.25        $235  
                                 ==========                  ===

        Series A
        In July 1992 the Company sold in a public offering 12.0 million
        depositary shares, each representing 1/10th of a share of 8.125%
        Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (Series A Preferred), at an
        offering price of $25 per depositary share.  The Series A Preferred has
        cumulative dividends payable quarterly commencing September 1, 1992 and
        a liquidation preference equivalent to $25 per depositary share plus
        accrued and accumulated unpaid dividends.  On or after July 28, 1997,
        the Company may, at its option, redeem the Series A Preferred, in whole
        or in part, at any time at a redemption price of $25 per depositary
        share plus dividends accrued and unpaid to the redemption date.

        Series B
        In connection with the Shearson Acquisition the Company issued to
        American Express 2.5 million shares of 5.5% Convertible Preferred Stock,
        Series B (Series B Preferred) of the Company.  Each Series B Preferred
        share has cumulative dividends payable quarterly and a liquidation
        preference of $50 per share and is convertible at any time at the option
        of the holder at a conversion price of $36.75 per common share.  The
        Series B Preferred is not redeemable prior to July 30, 1996.  On or
        after July 30, 1996, the Series B Preferred is redeemable at the
        Company's option, at a price of $51.925 per share if redeemed prior to
        July 29, 1997, and at decreasing prices thereafter to $50 per share

                                         49
<PAGE>

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

        from and after July 30, 2003, plus accrued and unpaid dividends, if any,
        to the redemption date.  In addition, the Company issued to American
        Express warrants to purchase 3,749,466 shares of common stock of the
        Company at an exercise price of $39 per common share, exercisable until
        July 31, 1998.  Both the Series B Preferred and the warrant are publicly
        traded.

        Series C
        In connection with the acquisition of old Travelers, the Company
        converted the old Travelers $4.53 Series A ESOP Convertible Preference
        Stock which was issued to prefund old Travelers' matching obligations
        under its Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) into $4.53 Series C
        Convertible Preferred Stock ("Series C Preferred") of the Company with a
        stated value and a liquidation preference of $53.25 per share.  The
        Series C Preferred is convertible into one share of The Travelers Inc.
        Common Stock for each $66.21 of stated value of Series C Preferred,
        subject to antidilution adjustments in certain circumstances.  Dividends
        on the Series C Preferred are cumulative and accrue in the amount of
        $4.53 per annum per share.  The Series C Preferred is redeemable at the
        option of the Company on or after January 1, 1998 (or earlier at the
        option of the holder in the event of a change in control, as defined, of
        the Company) at a redemption price of $53.25 per share plus accrued and
        unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption.  

        Series D
        Also in connection with the Company's acquisition of old Travelers, 7.5
        million shares of 9 1/4% Series B Preference Stock of old Travelers were
        converted into 7.5 million shares of 9 1/4% Series D Preferred Stock
        ("Series D Preferred") of the Company with a stated value and
        liquidation preference of $50 per share.  The Series D Preferred is held
        in the form of depositary shares, with two depositary shares
        representing each preferred share.  Annual dividends of $4.625 per share
        ($2.3125 per depository share) are payable quarterly.  Dividends are
        cumulative from the date of issue.  The Series D Preferred is not
        redeemable prior to July 1, 1997.  On and after July 1, 1997, the Series
        D Preferred is redeemable at the Company's option at a price of $50 per
        share (equivalent to $25 per depositary share), plus accrued and unpaid
        dividends, if any, to the redemption date.  In the event that dividends
        on the series D Preferred are in arrears in an amount equal to at least
        six full quarterly dividends, holders of the stock would have the right
        to elect two additional directors to the Board of Directors of the
        Company.

        Stockholders' Equity
        The combined insurance subsidiaries' statutory capital and surplus at
        December 31, 1994 and 1993 was $4.342 billion and $4.340 billion,
        respectively, and is subject to certain restrictions imposed by state
        insurance departments as to the transfer of funds and payment of
        dividends.  The combined insurance subsidiaries' (including The
        Travelers Insurance Group for 1994 only) net income, determined in
        accordance with statutory accounting practices, for the years ended
        December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992 was $228 million, $204 million and $199
        million, respectively. 

        Under Connecticut law, the statutory capital and surplus of The
        Travelers Insurance Group Inc., which amounted to $4.218 billion at
        December 31, 1994 is not available in 1995 for dividends to its Parent
        without prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Department.

        The Company's broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to The Uniform Net
        Capital Rule of the Securities and Exchange Commission.  At December 31,
        1994, the aggregate net capital of such broker-dealer subsidiaries was
        $1.313 billion, exceeding the net capital requirement by $1.119 billion.

        See Note 10 for additional restrictions on stockholders' equity.

                                         50
<PAGE>

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

        In April 1993, the Company sold 9,333,333 shares of newly issued common
        stock.  The offering was made exclusively to foreign investors, and
        shares were not offered in the United States or to United States
        persons, in accordance with Regulation S under the Securities Act of
        1933.  Therefore the shares have not been registered under such act.  In
        June 1993, the Company sold 1,000,000 shares of newly issued common
        stock to a senior executive of the Company.  In total these transactions
        generated net proceeds of $329 million.

        At December 31, 1994, 10,694,740 shares of authorized common stock were
        reserved for convertible securities and warrants. 


    15. Incentive Plans
        ---------------

        The Company's 1986 Stock Option Plan provides for the granting to
        officers and key employees of the Company and its participating
        subsidiaries of non-qualifiedstock options and incentive stock options. 
        Options generally are granted at the fair market value at the time of
        grant for a period not in excess of ten years.  They vest over five
        years, or in full upon a change of control of the Company, and are
        generally exercisable only if the optionee is employed by the Company. 
        The plan also permits an employee exercising an option to be granted new
        options (reload options) in an amount equal to the number of common
        shares used to satisfy the exercise price and the withholding taxes due
        upon exercise.  The maximum number of shares that may be granted under
        this plan is 73,008,140, of which 35,000,000 were reserved for the
        granting of reload options; at December 31, 1994, 26,265,245 shares were
        available for grant, of which 15,011,009 were available for reload
        option grants.  The Company also has other option plans.

        Information with respect to stock options granted under the Company's
        various option plans is as follows:

                                        Number of        Price   
                                         Shares        Per Share 
                                       ----------  --------------
        Balance, at January 1, 1992    21,181,108    $ 6.07-32.03
          Granted                      11,924,090     18.50-24.94
          Expired or canceled            (518,956)     9.74-21.88
          Exercised                   (13,279,940)     6.07-21.49
                                      -----------     -----------
        Balance, at December 31, 1992  19,306,302    $ 7.82-32.03
                                      -----------     -----------
          Granted                       9,593,308     24.19-49.50
          Converted upon the Merger     4,011,726     15.54-62.02
          Expired or canceled            (679,064)     9.74-44.63
          Exercised                    (9,898,567)     8.00-37.41
                                      -----------     -----------
        Balance, at December 31, 1993  22,333,705    $ 7.82-62.02
                                      -----------     -----------
          Granted                       6,132,850     31.00-42.88
          Expired or canceled          (1,387,428)     9.74-62.02
          Exercised                    (2,905,346)     7.81-40.13
                                      -----------     -----------
        Balance at December 31, 1994   24,173,781    $ 9.74-62.02
                                      -----------     -----------
        Currently exercisable, 
         December 31, 1994              8,449,283    $ 9.74-62.02
                                      ===========     ===========

                                         51
<PAGE>

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

        At the time of the Merger, 7,193,486 options to purchase old Travelers
        common stock were outstanding.  Of this amount, 2,205,204 options were
        forfeited or redeemed for cash, and the remaining 4,988,282 options, at
        a weighted average price of $33.92, were converted into options to
        receive 4,011,726 shares of the Company's common stock, at a weighted
        average price of $42.18.

        The Company, through its Capital Accumulation Plan (the Plan) and other
        restricted stock programs, has issued a total of 15,464,592 shares of
        the Company's common stock in the form of restricted stock to
        participating officers and other key employees.  The restricted stock
        generally vests after a two-year period.  The Nominations and
        Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors that administers the
        Plan has determined that the restricted period for awards made with
        respect to the 1994 Plan year will generally be three years.  Except
        under limited circumstances, during this period the stock cannot be sold
        or transferred by the participant, who is required to render service to
        the Company during the restriction period.  At the discretion of the
        Committee, participants may elect to receive part of their awards in
        restricted stock and part in stock options.  Unearned compensation
        expense associated with the restricted stock grants represents the
        market value of the Company's common stock at the date of grant and is
        recognized as a charge to income ratably over the vesting period.

    16. Pension Plans   
        -------------

        The Company and its subsidiaries have noncontributory defined benefit
        pension plans covering the majority of their U.S. employees.  Benefits
        for the Company's principal plans are based on an account balance
        formula. Under this formula, each employee's accrued benefit can be
        expressed as an account that is credited with amounts based upon the
        employee's pay, length of service and a specified interest rate, all
        subject to a minimum benefit level.  These plans are funded in
        accordance with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and
        the Internal Revenue Code.  Certain non-U.S. employees of the Company
        are covered by noncontributory defined benefit plans.  These plans are
        funded based upon local laws.

        The following is a summary of the components of pension expense included
        in the Consolidated Statement of Income for the Company's significant
        defined benefit plans for the years ended December 31:

        (millions)                         1994      1993       1992  
                                           ----      ----       ----

        Service cost                       $105       $34        $17 
        Interest cost                       173        36         26 
        Actual return on plan assets        (66)      (59)       (28)
        Net amortization and deferral      (161)       11        (10)
                                           ----       ---        ---
        Net periodic pension cost           $51       $22        $ 5 
                                           ====       ===        ===




                                         52
<PAGE>

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

        The following table sets forth the funded status of the Company's
        significant defined benefit plans at December 31:

        (millions)                                   1994       1993 
                                                     ----       ----

        Actuarial present value of benefit obligation:
          Vested benefits                          $2,091     $2,223 
          Non-vested benefits                          49         40 
                                                   ------     ------
          Accumulated benefit obligation            2,140      2,263 
          Effect of future salary increases            46         79 
                                                    -----      -----
          Projected benefit obligation              2,186      2,342 
        Plan assets at fair value                   2,335      2,434 
                                                    -----      -----
        Plan assets in excess of projected 
         benefit obligation                           149         92 
        Unrecognized transition asset                  (3)        (3) 
        Unrecognized prior service cost (benefit)       2        (36)
        Unrecognized net (gain) loss                 (145)         2 
                                                    -----     ------
        Prepaid pension cost  
          recognized in the Statement of 
           Financial Position                      $    3     $   55 
                                                     ====      =====

        Actuarial Assumptions:                  
          Weighted average discount rate             8.75%       7.5%
          Weighted average rate of compensation 
           increase                                   4.5%       4.5%
          Expected long-term rate of return on
            plan assets                               9.5%      9.75%

        Plan assets associated with the plans of old Travelers are held
        primarily in various separate accounts and the general account of The
        Travelers Insurance Company, a subsidiary of the Company, and certain
        investment trusts.  These accounts invest in stocks, bonds, mortgage
        loans and real estate.  Plan assets for the Company's other significant
        pension plans are invested primarily in U.S. Government securities,
        corporate bonds and stocks.

    17. Postretirement Benefits
        -----------------------

        The Company provides postretirement health care, life insurance and
        survival income benefits to certain eligible retirees.  These benefits
        relate primarily to former unionized employees of predecessor companies,
        certain employees of SmithBarney and former employees of old Travelers. 
        Other retirees are generally responsible for most or all of the cost of
        these benefits (while retaining the benefits of group coverage and
        pricing).

        As required by FAS 106, the Company changed its method of accounting for
        retiree benefit plans effective January 1, 1993, to accrue the Company's
        share of the costs of postretirement benefits over the service period
        rendered by an employee.  Previously these benefits were charged to
        expense when paid.

        The Company elected to recognize immediately the liability for
        postretirement benefits as the cumulative effect of a change in
        accounting principle.  This change resulted in a noncash after-tax
        charge to net income of $17 million in 1993.

                                         53

<PAGE>

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

        The Company generally funds its share of the cost of postretirement
        benefits on a pay-as-you-go basis.  However, the Company has made
        contributions to a survivor income plan, the assets of which are
        currently invested in a major insurance company's general investment
        portfolio.  

        Payments and net periodic postretirement benefit cost for 1993 were not
        material.  The following is a summary of the components of net periodic
        postretirement benefit cost for the year ended December 31, 1994:


        (millions)

        Service cost                                             $  3
        Interest cost                                              33
        Actual return on plan assets                                -
        Net amortization and deferral                               -
                                                                  ---
        Net periodic postretirement benefit cost                 $ 36
                                                                  ===

        The following table sets forth the funded status of the Company's
        postretirement benefit plans at December 31:

        (millions)
                                                           1994      1993 
                                                           ----      ----
        Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation    
             Retirees                                      $363      $418 
             Other fully eligible plan participants          32        33 
             Other active plan participants                  18        53 
                                                            ---      ----
                                                            413       504 
        Plan assets at fair value                             4         3 
                                                            ---     -----
        Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation 
         in excess of plan assets                           409       501 
        Unrecognized net gain (loss)                         79       (18)
        Unrecognized prior service cost                      (5)       (6)
                                                            ---       ---
        Accrued postretirement benefit liability           $483      $477 
                                                            ===       ===

        For measurement purposes, the annual rate of increase in the per capita
        cost of covered health care benefits ranged from 16% in 1995, decreasing
        gradually to 5.5% by the year 2003 and remaining at that level
        thereafter.  The health care cost trend rate assumption affects the
        amounts reported.  To illustrate, increasing the assumed health care
        cost trend rates by one percentage point in each year would increase the
        accumulated postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 1994 by
        approximately $14 million.  The impact on net periodic postretirement
        benefit cost of such an increase would not be material.

        The weighted average discount rates used in determining the accumulated
        postretirement benefit obligation were 8.75% and 7.5% at December 31,
        1994 and 1993, respectively.  For certain plans associated with Smith
        Barney and old Travelers, the weighted average assumed rate of
        compensation increase was approximately 3.5% for both 1994 and 1993. 
        For other plans, no assumptions have been made for rate of compensation
        increases, since active employees are responsible for the full cost of
        these benefits upon retirement.

                                         54
<PAGE>

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

    18. Lease Commitments 
        ------------------

        Rentals
        Rental expense (principally for offices and computer equipment) was $403
        million, $182 million and $114 million for the years ended December 31,
        1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

        At December 31, 1994, future minimum annual rentals under noncancellable
        operating leases were as follows:

              (millions)
                   1995        $  323
                   1996           277
                   1997           221
                   1998           155
                   1999           127
                  Thereafter      138
                                -----
                               $1,241
                                =====

        Future sublease rental income of approximately $31 million will
        partially offset these commitments.

        The Company and certain of Smith Barney's subsidiaries together have an
        option to purchase the buildings presently leased for Smith Barney's
        executive offices and New York City operations at the expiration of the
        lease term.  


    19. Derivative Financial Instruments
        --------------------------------

        The Company uses derivative financial instruments in the normal course
        of business for end user and, in the case of Smith Barney, trading
        purposes.  Derivatives are financial instruments, which include
        forwards, futures, options and swaps, whose value is based upon an
        underlying asset, index or reference rate.  A derivative contract may be
        traded on an exchange or over-the-counter (OTC).  Exchange-traded
        derivatives are standardized and include futures and certain option
        contracts listed on exchanges.  OTC derivative contracts are
        individually negotiated between contracting parties and include
        forwards, swaps, and certain options including interest rate caps,
        floors and swaptions.  Derivatives are subject to various risks similar
        to those related to the underlying financial instruments, including
        market, credit and liquidity risk.  The risks of derivatives should not
        be viewed in isolation but rather should be considered on an aggregate
        basis along with risks related to the Company's non-derivative trading
        and other activities.  The Company manages derivative and non-derivative
        risks on an aggregate basis as part of its firm-wide risk management
        policies.  

        Forwards represent commitments to exchange currencies or to purchase or
        sell other financial instruments at specified prices on specified future
        dates.  Futures contracts are similar to forwards, however, major
        exchanges act as intermediaries and require daily cash settlement and
        collateral deposits.  As a writer of certain option contracts, Smith
        Barney receives a fee to become obligated to buy or sell financial
        instruments at a specified price for a period of time at the holder's
        option.  As a writer of interest rate options, Smith Barney receives a
        fee to become obligated to pay the holder at specified future dates the
        amount, if any, by which specified market interest rates exceed or fall
        below specified reference rates applied to a notional amount.  In the
        case of swaptions, Smith Barney is obligated to enter into an interest
        rate swap at specified terms or cancel an existing swap, at the holder's
        option.  Purchased options give Smith Barney the right, but not the
        obligation, to buy or sell financial instruments at a specified price
        for a period of time.  Interest rate swaps require the exchange of
        periodic cash payments based on a notional principal amount and

                                         55
<PAGE>

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

        agreed-upon fixed or floating rates.  Generally, no cash is exchanged at
        the outset of the contract and no principal payments are made by either
        party.  

        Market Risk.  Market risk is the potential for changes in the value of
        derivative financial instruments due to market changes, including
        interest and foreign exchange rate movements and fluctuations in
        commodity or security prices.  Market risk is directly impacted by the
        volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying
        assets are traded.  

        Credit Risk.  Credit risk is the possibility that a loss may occur due
        to the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of a
        contract.  At any point in time, the credit risk for derivative
        contracts is limited to the unrealized gains for each counterparty to
        the extent not offset under any master netting agreements or collateral
        arrangements.  There is no credit risk associated with written options
        as the counterparty pays a cash premium up front. Credit risk is reduced
        to the extent that an exchange or clearing organization acts as a
        counterparty to the transaction.  For significant transactions, the
        Company's credit review process includes an evaluation of the
        counterparty's creditworthiness, periodic review of credit standing and
        obtaining collateral and various credit enhancements in certain
        circumstances.  Smith Barney establishes credit limits for its trading
        derivative counterparties by product type, taking into account the
        perceived risk associated with each product.  The usage and resultant
        exposure from these credit limits are then monitored regularly by
        management.

        Liquidity Risk.  Liquidity risk is the possibility that the Company may
        not be able to rapidly adjust the size of its derivative positions in
        times of high volatility and financial stress at a reasonable cost.  The
        liquidity of derivative products is highly related to the liquidity of
        the underlying cash instrument.  As with non-derivative financial
        instruments, the Company's valuation policies for derivatives include
        consideration of liquidity factors.

        Trading Activity
        All derivatives used for trading purposes relate to Smith Barney, and
        are primarily used to facilitate customer transactions.  Smith Barney
        also uses derivatives to limit its net exposure to loss from market risk
        related to derivative and non-derivative inventory positions.  On a
        limited basis, Smith Barney also began structuring derivative
        instruments in 1994, primarily OTC foreign currency options and interest
        rate options and swaps, as part of its proprietary trading activities. 
        The level of this activity may expand in the future.  To the extent that
        activities are related to servicing customer business, the objective is
        to minimize market risk as much as possible.   

        Smith Barney's derivative contracts are generally short-term, with a
        weighted average maturity of approximately three months at December 31,
        1994 and 1993.  The notional or contractual amounts of these instruments
        do not represent the exposure to possible loss or future cash payments,
        but rather reflect the extent of the Company's involvement in these
        instruments.  At December 31, 1994 and 1993, Smith Barney had
        outstanding trading derivatives with notional values as follows: 


                                         56
<PAGE>

         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

<TABLE><CAPTION>
                                                            Contract or Notional Amount             Contract or Notional Amount

        (millions)                                                         1994                                   1993
                                                            -----------------------------           ----------------------------
                                                                   Purchase          Sell                 Purchase          Sell
                                                                   --------          ----                 --------          ----
        <S>                                                        <C>            <C>                     <C>             <C>  
        "To be announced" mortgage-backed                                  
          securities                                                $15,016       $15,747                   $7,402        $7,499
        Forward and futures contracts:
          Foreign currency forwards                                   5,136         6,076                    4,237         4,110
          Foreign currency futures                                      865             6                      701           854
          Financial futures                                              50         2,661                      100           750
          Precious metals and other commodities                         339           357                      417           389
                                                                     ------        ------                   ------        ------
                                                                    $21,406       $24,847                  $12,857       $13,602
                                                                     ======        ======                   ======        ======

        (millions)                                                Purchased       Written                Purchased       Written
                                                                  ---------       -------                ---------       -------
        Options:
          Foreign currency                                           $1,353        $1,340                  $     -        $    -
          Financial futures                                              50         2,150                        -             -
          Interest rate caps, floors and
            swaptions                                                     -           725                        -             -
          Other securities and commodities                               34            22                      127            74
                                                                      -----         -----                   ------         ----- 
                                                                     $1,437        $4,237                  $   127        $   74
                                                                      =====         =====                   ======         =====


        (millions)                                                      Open Contracts                         Open Contracts
                                                                        --------------                         --------------
        Interest rate swaps
                                                                                  $135                                $  -
                                                                                   ===                                 ===
</TABLE>

        "To be Announced" Mortgage-Backed Securities.  Smith Barney trades
        ---------------------------------------------
        mortgage-backed "to be announced" mortgage pools ("TBAs") to facilitate
        customer transactions and as hedges of proprietary inventory positions. 
        At December 31, 1994, over $13.2 billion each of purchase and sale
        positions represent offsetting purchases and sales of the same security,
        and over 95% of the contract values were for settlement within 60 days. 
        Net revenue from TBAs in 1994 was a loss of $10 million. 

        Foreign Currency Contracts.  In its role as a market intermediary, Smith
        ----------------------------
        Barney acts as a principal in foreign currency  forward and options
        contracts, primarily to facilitate customer transactions.  These
        transactions expose the firm to foreign exchange rate risk, which is
        generally hedged by entering into foreign currency forward, futures and
        options

                                         57

<PAGE>


          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

        contracts with inverse market risk profiles.  At December 31, 1994,
        approximately 87% of the contract values of foreign currency derivative
        instruments were for settlement within 90 days, and related primarily to
        major European currencies and the Japanese yen.  Written foreign
        currency options consist of $733 million and $607 million of put and
        call contracts, respectively, at December 31, 1994.  Net revenues from
        foreign currency contracts in aggregate were $19 million in 1994.  

        Financial Futures and Options on Financial Futures Contracts.  Smith
        ------------------------------------------------------------
        Barney trades financial futures contracts and options on financial
        futures, primarily to hedge other proprietary inventory positions. 
        Written financial futures options consist of $1.075 billion of put
        contracts and $1.075 billion of call contracts written on the same
        underlying futures contracts.  Net revenues from these transactions were
        $9 million in 1994.  

        Precious Metals Contracts.  Forward precious metals contracts are
        -------------------------
        entered into to facilitate customer transactions, and are transacted in
        the "Loco London" Bullion Market, which is used globally for hedging and
        trading purposes.  Smith Barney may use precious metals futures as
        hedges of its forward inventory to reduce market risk.  Net revenues
        from precious metals contracts were $2 million in 1994. 

        Interest Rate Products. Smith Barney enters into interest rate swaps,
        -----------------------
        caps, floors and swaptions as part of its proprietary trading strategy,
        which it hedges with financialfutures and options on financial futures. 
        Net revenues from interest rate swap products were $3 million in 1994.

        Trading derivative instruments are carried at market value, primarily
        based on quoted market prices, with changes in market value reported in
        principal transactions revenues in the Statement of Income.  The trading
        gains and losses on these derivative financial instruments, should not
        be viewed on an individual basis, but rather as a component of the
        Company's overall trading results, as these instruments are frequently
        hedges of, or hedged by, other on-or off-balance-sheet financial
        instruments.

        The fair value of Smith Barney's trading derivative instruments as
        recorded in the Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 1994 and
        the average fair value for the year based on month end balances are
        presented below.  



                                         58

<PAGE>

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

<TABLE><CAPTION>

                                                                 Ending Fair Value                 Average Fair Value
                                                               ------------------------           -----------------------
            (millions)                                         Assets       Liabilities           Assets      Liabilities
                                                               ------       -----------           ------      -----------
            <S>                                                <C>          <C>                   <C>         <C>
            "To be announced" mortgage-backed
              securities                                          $29           $28                $54            $54
            Forward and futures contracts:
              Foreign currency forwards                            92            98                 87             92
              Foreign currency futures                              2             3                  4              3
              Financial futures                                     7             2                  3              2
              Precious metals and other commodities                 1             2                  3              3
            Options:
              Foreign currency                                      5             8                  7              8
              Financial futures                                     2             6                  1              1
              Interest rate caps, floors and swaptions              -             5                  -              5
              Other securities and commodities                      1             1                  3              5
            Interest rate swaps                                     1             -                  1              -
                                                                  ---           ---                ---            ---
                                                                 $140          $153               $163           $173
                                                                  ===           ===                ===            ===
</TABLE>

        End User Activity
        In the normal course of business the Company also employs certain
        derivative financialinstruments as an end user to manage various risks. 
        At December 31, 1994 the notional and fair values of end user
        derivatives were as follows.  Fair values were determined by reference
        to quoted market prices or, for interest rate swaps, estimated based
        upon the payments either party would have to make to terminate the swap.

<TABLE><CAPTION>
                                                                      Notional Value                    Fair Value
                                                                 ----------------------           -----------------------
              (millions)                                              Open Contracts                Asset     Liability
                                                                      --------------                -----     ---------
              <S>                                                     <C>                          <C>        <C>
              Interest rate swaps:
                Pay a fixed rate, receive a floating rate                 $712
                Pay a floating rate, receive a fixed rate                   70
                                                                           ---
                                                                          $782                     $ 43       $ 6
                                                                           ===                      ===       ===
<CAPTION>

                                                                   Purchase        Sell    
                                                                   --------        ----
              <C>                                                  <C>             <C>            <C>        <C>
              Foreign currency forwards                               $47          $183             15          7
              Financial futures                                        13             -              -          -
                                                                     ----         -----            ---        ---
                                                                      $60          $183           $ 15       $  7
                                                                      ===          ====            ===        ===
</TABLE>


                                         59
<PAGE>

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

        Certain of the Company's subsidiaries employ swap contracts to manage
        interest rate risk related to variable rate obligations, limiting the
        Company s net exposure to interest rate movements to an acceptable
        level. Under these swaps the Company has fixed $590 million of its short
        term or variable rate obligations at an average rate of 5.94%.  The
        swaps are accounted for as hedges of the related liabilities and
        unrealized gains and losses are not recorded in the Statement of
        Financial Position.  Periodic receipts or payments are accrued as
        adjustments to expense.  In addition, Travelers Insurance Group utilizes
        swaps to manage the differing interest rate risk profiles of its
        insurance liabilities and related fixed income investment portfolio. 
        These swaps are marked to market and recorded as other assets with
        changes in value recorded as an adjustment to stockholders' equity where
        unrealized gains and losses on the related debt securities are recorded.

        Travelers Insurance Group employs forwards to hedge its exposure to
        foreign exchange rate risk related to the net investment in foreign
        branches and foreign currency denominated investments.  These forwards
        are marked to market and recorded as other assets or liabilities in the
        Statement of Financial Position.  Changes in value related to forwards
        hedging the net investment in foreign subsidiaries are recorded as an
        adjustment to stockholders' equity where related translation adjustments
        are recorded.  Changes in value related to forwards hedging foreign
        investments in U.S. portfolios, amounting to a net loss of $3 million in
        1994, are recorded as other income where the related translation
        adjustments to the underlying investments are recorded.
        
        Travelers Insurance Group hedges expected cash flows related to certain
        customer deposits and investment maturities, redemptions and sales
        against adverse changes in market interest rates with financial futures
        contracts.  These contracts are marked to market and recorded as other
        assets or liabilities in the Statement of Financial Position.  Realized
        gains or losses are recorded as an adjustment to the cost basis of the
        related asset when acquired.  

    20. Fair Value of Financial Instruments
        -----------------------------------

        The following table summarizes the fair value and carrying amount of the
        Company's financial instruments at December 31, 1994 and 1993. 
        Contractholder funds amounts exclude certain insurance contracts not
        covered by FAS 107 "Disclosure About Fair Value of Financial
        Instruments."  The fair value assumptions were based upon subjective 
        estimates of market conditions and perceived risks of the financial
        instruments at a certain point in time as disclosed further in various
        Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  Disclosed fair values
        for financial instruments do not reflect any premium or discount that
        could result from offering for sale at one time the Company's entire
        holdings of a particular financial instrument.  Potential taxes and
        other expenses that would be incurred in an actual sale or settlement
        are not reflected in amounts disclosed.

                                         60


<PAGE>

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

<TABLE><CAPTION>
                                                                      1994                                       1993
                                                         ------------------------------          -----------------------------
            (millions)                                   Carrying Amount     Fair Value          Carrying Amount    Fair Value
                                                         ---------------     ----------          ---------------    ----------
            <S>                                          <C>                 <C>                 <C>                <C>
            Assets: 
              Investments                                     $39,120           $39,092                $42,199         $42,223
              Securities borrowed or purchased
                under agreements to resell                     25,655            25,655                 13,353          13,353
              Trading securities owned                          6,945             6,945                  5,863           5,863
              Net consumer finance receivables                  6,746             7,364                  6,216           6,831
              Separate accounts 
                with guaranteed returns                         1,483             1,379                  1,508           1,593
              Derivatives:
                Trading                                           142               142                     95              95
                End user                                           15                58                      7               7
            Liabilities:
              Long-term debt                                    7,075             6,867                  6,991           7,324
              Securities loaned or sold under
                agreements to repurchase                       21,620            21,620                 10,144          10,144
              Trading securities sold 
                not yet purchased                               4,345             4,345                  3,835           3,835
              Contractholder funds:
                With defined maturities                         4,219             4,047                  5,022           5,046
                Without defined maturities                      9,159             8,875                 12,894          12,733
              Separate accounts   
                with guaranteed returns                         1,465             1,331                  1,506           1,674
              Derivatives:                                                                                       
                Trading                                           153               153                     98              98
                End User                                            8                13                      2              20

</TABLE>

    21. Commitments
        -----------

        Financial Guarantees 
        At December 31, 1994 and 1993 The Travelers Insurance Group had
        outstanding financial guarantees of $2.236 billion and $3.016 billion,
        respectively, of which $2.086 billion and $2.598 billion, respectively,
        represented its participation in the Municipal Bond Insurance
        Association's guarantee of municipal bond obligations.  The bonds
        guaranteed are generally rated A or above and The Travelers Insurance
        Group's participation has been reinsured.

                                         61
<PAGE>

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

        Credit Cards
        The Company provides bank and private label credit card services through
        CCC and its subsidiaries.  These services are provided to individuals
        and to affinity groups nationwide.  At December 31, 1994 and 1993 total
        credit lines available to credit cardholders were $5.423 billion and
        $4.263 billion, of which $820 million and $790 million were utilized,
        respectively.  

        Other Commitments
        At December 31, 1994, and 1993 Smith Barney had borrowed securities
        having a market value of $1.505 billion and $1.225 billion,
        respectively, against which it had pledged securities having a market
        value of $1.589 billion and $1.279 billion, respectively.  In addition,
        Smith Barney had obtained letters of credit aggregating $192 million and
        $154 million at December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively, of which $147
        million and $116 million, respectively, was used to satisfy various
        collateral and deposit requirements principally with clearing
        organizations.  Smith Barney also trades certain fixed income securities
        on a "when issued" basis.  At December 31, 1994 Smith Barney had
        commitments to purchase $309 million and to sell $1.122 billion of
        certain fixed income securities when issued.  At December 31, 1993,
        Smith Barney had commitments to sell $9 million of such securities when
        issued.  

        Smith Barney and its broker-dealer subsidiary have each provided a
        portion of a residual value guarantee in connection with the lease of
        the buildings occupied by Smith Barney's executive offices and New York
        operations.  The amount of the guarantee is dependent upon the final
        build-out costs with a maximum of $625 million.

        The Travelers Insurance Group makes unfunded commitments to partnerships
        and transfers receivables to third parties with recourse from time to
        time.  The off-balance sheet risks of these financial instruments were
        not considered significant at December 31, 1994 or 1993.

    22. Contingencies
        -------------

        A subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Group is in litigation with
        certain underwriters at Lloyds of London (Lloyd's) in New York state
        court to enforce reinsurance contracts with respect to recoveries for
        certain asbestos claims.  The dispute involves the  ability of old
        Travelers to aggregate asbestos products claims with asbestos premises
        claims under a market agreement between Lloyd's and old Travelers or
        under the applicable reinsurance treaties.  In January 1994 the court
        stayed litigation of this matter in favor of arbitration of the contract
        issues raised by old Travelers.

        With respect to environmental and asbestos claims, see Note 11. 

        In the ordinary course of business the Company and/or its subsidiaries
        are defendants or co-defendants in various litigation matters, other
        than environmental and asbestos claims.  Although there can be no
        assurances, the Company believes, based on information currently
        available, that the ultimate resolution of these legal proceedings would
        not be likely to have a material adverse effect on its results of
        operations, financial condition or liquidity.

                                         62


<PAGE>
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

23.  Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited)
     ------------------------------------
<TABLE><CAPTION>
                                                                         1994             
                                                ----------------------------------------------------
  (in millions except per share amounts)           First     Second      Third     Fourth      Total
                                                ----------------------------------------------------
<S>                                              <C>        <C>        <C>       <C>         <C>
   Total revenues                                $4,769     $4,601     $4,714     $4,381    $18,465
   Total expenses                                 4,231      4,111      4,212      4,016     16,570
   Gain on sales of stock of
     subsidiaries and affiliates                      -          -          -        254        254
                                                  -----      -----      -----      -----      -----
   Income before income taxes, and minority 
     interest and cumulative effect of changes 
     in accounting principles                       538        490        502        619      2,149
   Provision for income taxes                       198        170        170        285        823
   Minority interest, net of income taxes             -          -          -          -          -
                                                  -----      -----      -----      -----      -----
   Net income before cumulative effect of changes
     in accounting principles                       340        320        332        334      1,326
   Cumulative effect of changes in
     accounting principles                            -          -          -          -          -
                                                  -----      -----      -----      -----      -----
   Net income                                    $  340     $  320     $  332     $  334     $1,326
                                                  =====      =====      =====      =====      =====
   Earnings per share of common stock:
     Net income before cumulative effect
      of changes in accounting principles        $   0.98   $   0.93    $  0.97   $   0.99   $   3.86
     Cumulative effect of changes in
       accounting principles                          -.        -.          -.        -.         -.   
                                                   -------   -------     -------   -------    -------
     Net income                                   $   0.98  $   0.93    $   0.97  $   0.99   $   3.86
                                                   =======   =======     =======   =======    =======
   Common stock price
    High                                          $ 42.875  $ 36.375    $ 36.875  $ 35.000    $42.875
    Low                                           $ 34.500  $ 32.000    $ 31.000  $ 31.000    $31.000
    Close                                         $ 35.250  $ 32.250    $ 32.875  $ 32.375    $32.375

   Dividends per share of common stock            $   .125  $   .150    $   .150  $   .150    $  .575
<CAPTION>
                                                                          1993                      
                                                ----------------------------------------------------
  (in millions except per share amounts)           First     Second      Third     Fourth      Total
                                                ----------------------------------------------------
<S>                                             <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>         <C>
   Total revenues                                $1,302     $1,284     $2,016     $2,195     $6,797
   Total expenses                                   974        987      1,576      1,750      5,287
   Gain on sales of stock of
     subsidiaries and affiliates                      6          -          7          -         13
                                                  -----      -----      -----      -----      -----
   Income before income taxes, and minority 
     interest and cumulative effect of changes 
     in accounting principle                        334        297        447        445      1,523
   Provision for income taxes                       119        106        182        143        550
   Minority interest, net of income taxes           (8)        (4)        (6)        (4)       (22)
                                                  -----      -----      -----      -----      -----
   Net income before cumulative effect of changes
     in accounting principles                       207        187        259        298        951
   Cumulative effect of changes in
     accounting principles                      
                                                   (35)          -          -          -       (35)
                                                  -----      -----      -----      -----      -----
   Net income                                    $  172     $  187     $  259     $  298     $  916
                                                  =====      =====      =====      =====      =====
   Earnings per share of common stock:
     Net income before cumulative effect
      of changes in accounting principles        $    0.89  $   0.76    $   1.03  $   1.19   $   3.88 
     Cumulative effect of changes in
       accounting principles                         (0.15)     -.          -.        -.        (0.14)
                                                   -------   -------     -------   -------    -------
     Net income                                   $   0.74  $   0.76    $   1.03  $   1.19   $   3.74
                                                   =======   =======     =======   =======    =======
   Common stock price
    High                                          $ 37.313  $ 39.469    $ 49.500  $ 48.625    $49.500
    Low                                           $ 24.313  $ 31.219    $ 37.594  $ 38.000    $24.313
    Close                                         $ 34.594  $ 39.469    $ 47.750  $ 38.875    $38.875

   Dividends per share of common stock            $   .120  $   .120    $   .125  $   .125    $  .490

Fourth quarter 1994 gain on sales of stock of subsidiaries and affiliates amounted to $88 million after-tax.  Fourth quarter 
1994 results also include $88 million of after-tax portfolio losses.

Results of operations prior to 1994 exclude the amounts of The Travelers Insurance Group Inc. except that results for 1993 
include the Company's equity in earnings relating to the 27% interest purchased in December 1992.  Results of operations 
include amounts related to the Shearson Business from July 31, 1993, the date of acquisition. 

Due to changes in the number of average shares outstanding, quarterly earnings per share of common stock do not add to the 
totals for the years.  
</TABLE>

                                                     63

<PAGE>


                        Independent Auditors' Report



The Board of Directors and Stockholders
The Travelers Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial
position of The Travelers Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994 and
1993, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in
stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-
year period ended December 31, 1994.  These consolidated financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of The
Travelers Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in
the three-year period ended December 31, 1994 in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles.

As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the
Company changed its method of accounting for certain investments in debt
and equity securities in 1994.  Also, as discussed in Note 2 to the
consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its methods of
accounting for postretirement benefits other than pensions and accounting
for postemployment benefits in 1993, and its method of accounting for
income taxes in 1992.

/s/ KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

New York, New York
January 17, 1995




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21.01
<SEQUENCE>10
<TEXT>


                                                                  Exhibit 21.01






                     Subsidiaries of The Travelers Inc.

The following list omits certain subsidiaries which, considered in the
aggregate as a single subsidiary, would not constitute a significant
subsidiary.  The jurisdiction of incorporation of each subsidiary is
included in parentheses after its name.

AC Health Ventures, Inc. (Delaware)
AMCO Biotech, Inc. (Delaware)
Associated Madison Companies, Inc. (Delaware)
  - American National Life Insurance (T & C), Ltd. (Turks and Caicos
    Islands)
  - ERISA Corporation (New York)
  - Mid-America Insurance Services, Inc. (Georgia)
  - National Marketing Corporation (Pennsylvania)
       (also D/B/A American Service Associates)
  - PFS Custodial Services, Inc. (Georgia)
  - PFS Distributors, Inc. (Georgia)
  - PFS Investments Inc. (Georgia)
  - PFS Services, Inc. (Georgia)
  - Primerica Finance Corporation (Delaware)
    -  American Capital Custodial Services, Inc. (Delaware)  
    -  American Capital T.A., Inc. (Delaware)
  - Primerica Financial Services Home Mortgages, Inc. (Georgia)
  - Primerica Financial Services, Inc. (Nevada)
    -  Primerica Financial Services Agency of New York, Inc. (New York)
    -  Primerica Financial Services Insurance Marketing of Connecticut,
       Inc. (Connecticut)  
    -  Primerica Financial Services Insurance Marketing of Idaho, Inc.
       (Idaho)
    -  Primerica Financial Services Insurance Marketing of Nevada, Inc.
       (Nevada) 
    -  Primerica Financial Services Insurance Marketing of Pennsylvania,
       Inc. (Pennsylvania)
         (also D/B/A Primerica Financial Services)
    - Primerica Financial Services Insurance Marketing of the Virgin
      Islands, Inc. (United States Virgin Islands)
    - Primerica Financial Services Insurance Marketing of Wyoming, Inc.
      (Wyoming) 
    - Primerica Financial Services Insurance Marketing, Inc. (Delaware) 
    - Primerica Financial Services of Alabama, Inc. (Alabama) 
    - Primerica Financial Services of New Mexico, Inc. (New Mexico)  
    - Primerica Insurance Agency of Massachusetts, Inc. (Massachusetts)
    - Primerica Insurance Marketing Services of Puerto Rico, Inc. (Puerto
      Rico)
    - Primerica Insurance Services of Louisiana, Inc. (Louisiana) 
         (also D/B/A  A.L. Williams)
  - Primerica Insurance Services of Maryland, Inc. (Maryland)
       (also D/B/A Primerica Financial Service Insurance Marketing, Inc.)
  - Primerica Services, Inc. (Georgia)
  - RCM Acquisition Inc. (Delaware)  
  - SCN Acquisitions Company (Delaware)
  - SL&H Reinsurance, Ltd. (Turks and Caicos Islands)  
    -  Southwest Service Agreements, Inc. (North Carolina)
  - Southwest Warranty Corporation (Florida)
  - The Travelers Insurance Group Inc. (Connecticut)
    -  Harbour Associates I, Inc. (Delaware)




<PAGE>




    -  Deer Run II, Inc. (Delaware)
    -  Net & Twine II Corporation (Delaware)
  - KP Properties Corporation (Massachusetts)
  - KPI 85, Inc. (Massachusetts)
  - KRA Advisers Corporation (Massachusetts)
  - KRP Corporation (Massachusetts)
  - La Metropole S.A. (Belgium)
  - The Plaza Corporation (Connecticut)
    -  Joseph A. Wynne Agency (California)
    -  The Copeland Companies (New Jersey)
       - American Odyssey Funds Management, Inc. (New Jersey) 
         - American Odyssey Funds, Inc. (Maryland) 
       - Copeland Administrative Services, Inc. (New Jersey)  
       - Copeland Associates, Inc. (Delaware)
         - Copeland Associates Agency of Ohio, Inc. (Ohio) 
         - Copeland Associates of Alabama, Inc. (Alabama)  
         - Copeland Associates of Montana, Inc. (Montana)  
         - Copeland Benefits Management Company (New Jersey)  
         - Copeland Equities, Inc. (New Jersey)
         - H.C. Copeland Associates, Inc. of Massachusetts (Massachusetts)
       - Copeland Financial Services, Inc. (New Jersey)
       - Copeland Healthcare Services, Inc. (New Jersey) 
       - H.C. Copeland and Associates, Inc. of Texas (Texas)  
    -  The Parker Realty and Insurance Agency, Inc. (Vermont)
    -  Travelers General Agency of Hawaii, Inc. (Hawaii)  
  - The Prospect Company (Delaware)
    -  89th & York Avenue Corporation (New York)  
    -  979 Third Avenue Corporation (Delaware)
    -  Meadow Lane, Inc. (Georgia)
    -  Panther Valley, Inc. (New Jersey)
    -  Prospect Management Services Company (Delaware)
    -  The Travelers Asset Funding Corporation (Connecticut)
       - Travelers Capital Funding Corporation (Connecticut)  
  - The Travelers Corporation of Bermuda Limited (Bermuda)
  - The Travelers Indemnity Company (Connecticut)
    -  Commercial Insurance Resources, Inc. (Delaware) 
       - Gulf Insurance Company (Missouri)
         - Atlantic Insurance Company (Texas)
         - Gulf Group Lloyds (Texas)
             (also D/B/A Texas Lloyd Plan) 
         - Gulf Risk Services, Inc. (Delaware)
         - Gulf Underwriters Insurance Company (North Carolina)
         - Penn Casualty Insurance Company (Missouri)
         - Select Insurance Company (Texas)  
    - Countersignature Agency, Inc. (Florida)
    - First Trenton Indemnity Company (New Jersey)
    - Laramia Insurance Agency, Inc. (North Carolina)
    - Lynch, Ryan & Associates, Inc. (Massachusetts)
    - The Charter Oak Fire Insurance Company (Connecticut)  
    - The Exchange Agency, Inc. (Delaware)




                                     2




<PAGE>




    -  The Phoenix Insurance Company (Connecticut) 
       - Constitution State Service Company (Montana)
       - The Travelers Indemnity Company of America (Georgia)  
       - The Travelers Indemnity Company of Connecticut (Connecticut)  
       - The Travelers Indemnity Company of Illinois (Illinois)  
    -  The Premier Insurance Company of Massachusetts (Massachusetts)
    -  The Travelers Home and Marine Insurance Company (Indiana)  
    -  The Travelers Lloyds Insurance Company (Texas) 
    -  TI Home Mortgage Brokerage, Inc. (Delaware) 
    -  TravCo Insurance Company (Indiana)
    -  Travelers Medical Management Services Inc. (Delaware) 
  - The Travelers Insurance Company (Connecticut)
    -  Delaware Windtree Realty Corporation (Delaware)
    -  Market Funding Corporation I (Delaware)
    -  Market Funding Corporation II (Delaware)
    -  Travelers Insurance Holdings, Inc. (Georgia)
       - AC RE, Ltd. (Bermuda)
       - American Financial Life Insurance Company (Texas) 
         - Transport Life Insurance Company (Texas) 
           - Continental Life Insurance Company (Texas)
               (also D/B/A  CLIA Life Insurance Company) 
       - Travelers Life Insurance Company (Massachusetts) 
         - National Benefit Life Insurance Company (New York) 
         - Primerica Financial Services (Canada) Ltd. (Canada) 
           - PFSL Investments Canada Ltd. (Canada)  
           - Primerica Financial Services Ltd. (Canada)
           - Primerica Life Insurance Company of Canada (Canada)  
    -  Red Oak Plaza Holding Company, Inc. (Delaware)
    - The Travelers Life and Annuity Company (Connecticut)
    - The Travelers Insurance Corporation Proprietary Limited (Australia)
    - The Travelers Marine Corporation (California)
    - The Travelers Realty Investment Company (Connecticut)  
      -  AdVision, Inc. (Connecticut)
      -  Constitution Plaza, Inc. (Connecticut)
    - Travelers Asset Management International Corporation (New York) 
    - Travelers Canada Corporation (Canada)
    - Travelers Equities Sales, Inc. (Connecticut)
    - Travelers Mortgage Securities Corporation (Delaware)
    - Travelers of Ireland Limited (Ireland)
    - Travelers Specialty Property Casualty Company, Inc. (Connecticut) 
CCC Holdings, Inc. (Delaware)
    - Commercial Credit Company (Delaware) 
      -  American Health and Life Insurance Company (Maryland)  
      -  Brookstone Insurance Company (Vermont) 
      -  CC Finance Company, Inc. (New York) 
      -  CC Financial Services, Inc. (Hawaii)
      -  CCC Fairways, Inc. (Delaware)
      -  City Loan Financial Services, Inc. (Ohio)
      -  Commercial Credit Banking Corporation (Oregon)
      -  Commercial Credit Consumer Services, Inc. (Minnesota) 




                                     3




<PAGE>




      -  Commercial Credit Corporation (Alabama)
      -  Commercial Credit Corporation (California)
      -  Commercial Credit Corporation (Iowa)
           (also D/B/A Commercial Credit Corporation (IA)  
      -  Commercial Credit Corporation (Kentucky)  
         - Certified Insurance Agency, Inc. (Kentucky) 
         - Commercial Credit Investment, Inc. (Kentucky)  
         - National Life Insurance Agency of Kentucky, Inc. (Kentucky)  
         - Union Casualty Insurance Agency, Inc. (Kentucky) 
      -  Commercial Credit Corporation (Maryland)
           (also D/B/A  Commercial Credit Corporation (MD))  
         - Action Data Services, Inc. (Missouri) 
         - Commercial Credit Plan, Incorporated (Oklahoma)
             (also D/B/A Commercial Credit Consumer Services, Inc.)
      -  Commercial Credit Corporation (New Jersey)
      -  Commercial Credit Corporation (New York)
      -  Commercial Credit Corporation (South Carolina)
      -  Commercial Credit Corporation (West Virginia)
      -  Commercial Credit Corporation NC (North Carolina)
      -  Commercial Credit Europe, Inc. (Delaware)
      -  Commercial Credit Far East Inc. (Delaware)  
         - Commercial Credit Insurance Services, Inc. (Maryland)  
         - Commercial Credit Insurance Agency (P&C) of Mississippi, Inc.
           (Mississippi)
         - Commercial Credit Insurance Agency of Alabama, Inc. (Alabama)
         - Commercial Credit Insurance Agency of Kentucky, Inc. (Kentucky) 
         - Commercial Credit Insurance Agency of Massachusetts, Inc.
           (Massachusetts) 
         - Commercial Credit Insurance Agency of Nevada, Inc. (Nevada)
         - Commercial Credit Insurance Agency of Ohio, Inc. (Ohio) 
         - Commercial Credit Insurance Agency of New Mexico, Inc. (New
           Mexico) 
      -  Commercial Credit International, Inc. (Delaware)  
         - Commercial Credit International Banking Corporation (Oregon)
           - Commercial Credit Corporation CCC Limited (Canada)
           - Commercial Credit Services do Brazil Ltda. (Brazil) 
         - Commercial Credit Services Belgium S.A. (Belgium) 
         - Commercial Credit Services Israel Limited (Israel)  
           - Industrial Leasing Services Limited (Israel) 
             - Comlease Ltd. (Israel)
      -  Commercial Credit Limited (Delaware) 
      -  Commercial Credit Loan, Inc. (New York)
      -  Commercial Credit Loans, Inc. (Delaware)
      -  Commercial Credit Loans, Inc. (Ohio)
      -  Commercial Credit Loans, Inc. (Virginia)
      -  Commercial Credit Management Corporation (Maryland)

      -  Commercial Credit Plan Incorporated (Tennessee)
         (also D/B/A Commercial Credit Plan (TN))
      -  Commercial Credit Plan Incorporated (Utah)
      -  Commercial Credit Plan Incorporated of Georgetown (Delaware)
      -  Commercial Credit Plan Industrial Loan Company (Virginia)  
      -  Commercial Credit Plan, Incorporated (Colorado)
 



                                     4




<PAGE>




      -  Commercial Credit Plan, Incorporated (Delaware)
      -  Commercial Credit Plan, Incorporated (Georgia)
      -  Commercial Credit Plan, Incorporated (Missouri)
      -  Commercial Credit Securities, Inc. (Delaware) 
      - DeAlessandro & Associates, Inc. (Delaware) 
      - Park Tower Holdings, Inc. (Delaware)
        -  CC Retail Services, Inc. (Delaware)
           - Troy Textiles, Inc. (Delaware)
        -  COMCRES, Inc. (Delaware)
        -  Commercial Credit Development Corporation (Delaware)  
           - Myers Park Properties, Inc. (Delaware)
      - Penn Re, Inc. (North Carolina)
      - Plympton Concrete Products, Inc. (Delaware) 
      - Resource Deployment, Inc. (Texas)
      - The Travelers Bank (Delaware)
      - The Travelers Banks USA (Delaware) 
      - Travelers Home Equity, Inc.
        -  CC Consumer Services of Alabama, Inc. (Alabama)
        -  CC Home Lenders Financial, Inc. (Georgia) 
        -  CC Home Lenders, Inc. (Ohio)  
        -  Commercial Credit Corporation (Texas)
        -  Commercial Credit Financial of Kentucky, Inc. (Kentucky)
        -  Commercial Credit Financial of West Virginia, Inc. (West Virginia) 
        -  Commercial Credit Plan Consumer Discount Company (Pennsylvania) 
        -  Commercial Credit Services of Kentucky, Inc. (Kentucky) 
        -  Travelers Home Equity Services, Inc. (North Carolina)  
      - Verochris Corporation (Delaware)
        -  AMC Aircraft Corp. (Delaware) 
      - Voyager Guaranty Insurance Company (Missouri)
      - World Service Life Insurance Company (Colorado)  
D.I.R.E.C.T. Resources, Inc. (Delaware)
Greenwich Street Capital Partners, Inc. (Delaware)
Greenwich Street Investments, Inc. (Delaware)
  - Greenwich Street Offshore Holdings, Inc. (British Virgin Islands)
Margco Holdings, Inc. (Delaware)
  - Berg Associates (New Jersey)
  - Berg Enterprises Realty, Inc. (New York)
  - Dublin Escrow, Inc. (California)
  - M.K.L. Realty Corporation (New Jersey)
  - MFC Holdings, Inc. (Delaware)
  - MRC Holdings, Inc. (Delaware)
  - The Berg Agency, Inc. (New Jersey) 
Mirasure Insurance Company, Ltd. (Bermuda)
PA/RCM Corporation (Delaware)
PA/RCM LP Corporation (Delaware)
Pacific Basin Investments Ltd. (Delaware)
Primerica Corporation (Wyoming)
Primerica, Inc. (Delaware)
RCM Capital Trust Company (California)
Smith Barney Corporate Trust Company

                                     5

<PAGE>

Smith Barney Holdings Inc. (Delaware)
  - Mutual Management Corp. (New York)
    -  Smith Barney Asset Management Co., Ltd. (Japan)  
  - R-H Sports Enterprises Inc. (Georgia)
  - SB Cayman Holdings I Inc. (Delaware)
  - SB Cayman Holdings II Inc. (Delaware)
  - SBS Software Inc. (Delaware)
  - Smith Barney (Delaware) Inc. (Delaware)
    -  1345 Media Corp. (Delaware)
    -  Americas Avenue Corporation (Delaware)  
    -  Corporate Realty Advisors, Inc. (Delaware)
    -  CRA Acquisition Corp. (Delaware)
    -  IPO Holdings Inc. (Delaware)
    -  MLA 50 Corporation (Delaware)
    -  MLA GP Corporation (Delaware)
    -  Municipal Markets Advisors Incorporated (Delaware)  
    -  SBF Corp. (Delaware)
         (also D/B/A SB GP Company) 
    -  Smith Barney Acquisition Corporation (Delaware) 
    -  Smith Barney Commercial Corp. (Delaware)  
    -  Smith Barney Funding Holding Corp. (Delaware)  
    -  Smith Barney Global Capital Management, Inc. (Delaware) 
    -  Smith Barney Investment, Inc. (Delaware)
    -  Smith Barney Offshore, Inc. (Delaware)
       -  Decathlon Offshore Limited (Cayman Islands) 
    -  Smith Barney Pension Advisors Corp. (Delaware) 
    -  Smith Barney Realty Advisors, Inc. (Delaware) 
    -  Smith Barney Realty, Inc. (Delaware)
    -  Smith Barney Risk Investors, Inc. (Delaware)
    -  Smith Barney Venture Corp. (Delaware) 
  - Smith Barney Asia Inc. (Delaware)
  - Smith Barney Asset Management Group (Asia) Pte. Ltd. (Singapore)  
  - Smith Barney Canada Inc. (Canada)
  - Smith Barney Capital Services Inc. (Delaware)
  - Smith Barney Cayman Islands, Ltd. (Cayman Islands)
  - Smith Barney Commercial Corporation Asia Limited (Hong Kong)  
  - Smith Barney Europe Holdings, Ltd. (United Kingdom) 
    -  Smith Barney Europe, Ltd. (United Kingdom)
    -  Smith Barney Shearson Futures, Ltd. (United Kingdom)  
  - Smith Barney Futures Management Inc. (Delaware)
  - Smith Barney Inc. (Delaware)
    -  SBHU Life Agency, Inc. (Delaware)
       - Robinson-Humphrey Insurance Services Inc. (Georgia)  
         - Robinson-Humphrey Insurance Services of Alabama, Inc. (Alabama) 
       - SBHU Life & Health Agency, Inc. (Delaware) 
       - SBHU Life Agency of Arizona, Inc. (Arizona) 
       - SBHU Life Agency of Indiana, Inc. (Indiana)  
       - SBHU Life Agency of Utah, Inc. (Utah)
       - SBHU Life Insurance Agency of Massachusetts, Inc. (Massachusetts) 
       - SBS Insurance Agency of Hawaii, Inc. (Hawaii)  
     


                                     6

<PAGE>

       - SBS Insurance Agency of Idaho, Inc. (Idaho)  
       - SBS Insurance Agency of Maine, Inc. (Maine) 
       - SBS Insurance Agency of Montana, Inc. (Montana) 
       - SBS Insurance Agency of Nevada, Inc. (Nevada) 
       - SBS Insurance Agency of North Carolina, Inc. (North Carolina)
       - SBS Insurance Agency of Ohio, Inc. (Ohio)
       - SBS Insurance Agency of South Dakota, Inc. (South Dakota)
       - SBS Insurance Agency of Wyoming, Inc. (Wyoming) 
       - SBS Insurance Brokerage Agency of Arkansas, Inc. (Arkansas) 
       - SBS Insurance Brokers of Arizona, Inc. (Arizona)  
       - SBS Insurance Brokers of Kentucky, Inc. (Kentucky) 
       - SBS Insurance Brokers of Louisiana, Inc. (Louisiana) 
       - SBS Insurance Brokers of New Hampshire, Inc. (New Hampshire)
       - SBS Insurance Brokers of North Dakota, Inc. (North Dakota)
       - SBS Life Insurance Agency of Puerto Rico, Inc. (Puerto Rico)  
       - SLB Insurance Agency of Maryland, Inc. (Maryland) 
       - Smith Barney Life Agency Inc. (Louisiana)  
    -  Smith Barney (France) S.A. (France)
    -  Smith Barney (Hong Kong) Limited (Hong Kong)
    -  Smith Barney (Netherlands) Inc. (Delaware)  
    -  Smith Barney International Incorporated (Oregon) 
       - Smith Barney Pacific Holdings, Inc. (British Virgin Islands)  
         - Smith Barney Shearson (Asia) Limited (Hong Kong) 
       - Smith Barney Shearson (Singapore) Pte Ltd (Singapore) 
       - Smith Barney Shearson, HG Asia (Singapore) Pte Ltd (Singapore)
         - HG Asia (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) 
    -  The Robinson-Humphrey Company, Inc. (Delaware) 
  - Smith Barney Mortgage Brokers Inc. (Delaware) 
  - Smith Barney Mortgage Capital Corp. (Delaware)  
  - Smith Barney Mortgage Capital Group, Inc. (Delaware) 
  - Smith Barney Mutual Funds Management Inc. (Delaware) 
    -  Smith Barney Strategy Advisers Inc.
       - E.C. Tactical Management S.A. (Luxembourg) 
  - Smith Barney Private Trust Company (Cayman) Limited (Cayman Islands) 
  - Smith Barney S.A. (France)
  - Smith Barney Shearson (Chile) Corredora de Seguro Limitada (Chile)
       (also D/B/A SBS (Chile) Corredora de Seguros Ltda.)
  - Smith Barney Shearson (Ireland) Limited (Ireland)
  - Structured Mortgage Securities Corporation (Delaware) 
  - The Travelers Investment Management Company (Connecticut)
Smith Barney Private Trust Company (New York)
Smith Barney Private Trust Company of Florida (Florida) 
Tinmet Corporation (Delaware)
Travelers Services Inc. (Delaware)
TRV Employees Investments, Inc. (Delaware)




                                     7










</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.01
<SEQUENCE>11
<TEXT>


                                                                  Exhibit 23.01

              CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS




The Board of Directors
The Travelers Inc.:


We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on:

-    Form S-3  Nos. 33-49280, 33-55542, 33-56940, 33-68760, 33-51101,
               33-52281 and 33-54093; and,

-    Form S-8  Nos. 33-32130, 33-43997, 33-59524, 33-37399, 33-28437, 33-7665,
               33-28110, 33-43883, 33-21099, 33-29711, 33-47437, 33-39025,
               33-40469, 33-38109, 33-50206, 33-39985, 33-51353, 33-51769,
               33-51783, 33-52027 and 33-52029; and,

-    Form S-4  Nos. 33-37089, 33-25532 and 33-51201

of The Travelers Inc., of our report dated January 17, 1995, relating to the
consolidated statements of financial position of The Travelers Inc. and 
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the related consolidated
statements of income, changes in stockholders' equity and cash flows for each
of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1994, which report is
included with the annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
1994, of The Travelers Inc. Our report refers to: a change in the method of
accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities in 1994;
changes in the methods of accounting for postretirement benefits other than
pensions and accounting for postemployment benefits in 1993; and a change in
the method of accounting for income taxes in 1992.


/s/ KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

New York, New York
March 29, 1995





</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.02
<SEQUENCE>12
<TEXT>



                                                                  Exhibit 23.02



                       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
                       ----------------------------------



The Board of Directors of
The Travelers Inc. :



We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on
Form S-3 (Nos. 33-49280, 33-55542, 33-56940, 33-68760, 33-51101, 33-52281 and
33-54093), the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 33-32130, 33-43997,
33-59524, 33-37399, 33-28437, 33-7665, 33-28110, 33-43883, 33-21099, 33-29711,
33-47437, 33-39025, 33-40469, 33-38109, 33-50206, 33-39985, 33-51353, 33-51769,
33-51783, 33-52027 and 33-52029) and the Registration Statements on Form S-4
(Nos. 33-37089, 33-25532, and 33-51201) of The Travelers Inc., of our report
dated January 24, 1994, relating to our audit of the preacquisition consolidated
balance sheets of The Travelers Corporation and Subsidiaries (the "Company") as
of December 31, 1993 and 1992, and the related preacquisition consolidated
statements of operations and retained earnings and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1993, which include only those
accounts of the Company immediately prior to it being acquired and were prepared
for the purpose of complying with the requirements of the Staff of the
Securities and Exchange Commission, which report is included in the Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 1994, of The Travelers
Inc.  These preacquisition consolidated financial statements are not intended
to be a complete presentation of the Company's financial statements after its
acquisition.



                                                    /s/ Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.

Hartford, Connecticut
March 28, 1995





</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-24.01
<SEQUENCE>13
<TEXT>


                                                                   Exhibit 24.01




                             POWER OF ATTORNEY




     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that I, the undersigned, a director of
The Travelers Inc., a Delaware corporation, do hereby constitute and
appoint Sanford I. Weill, James Dimon, and Charles O. Prince, III, and each
of them severally, to be my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents,
each acting alone with full power of substitution and re-substitution, to
sign my name to an Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Travelers Inc. for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1994, and all amendments thereto, and to
file, or cause to be filed, the same with all exhibits thereto (including
this power of attorney), and other documents in connection therewith with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, provided that such Annual Report on
Form 10-K in final form, and any amendment or amendments thereto and such
other documents, be approved by said attorneys-in-fact, or by any one of
them; and I do hereby grant unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents full
power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing
requisite and necessary to be done in or about the premises, as fully and
to all intents and purposes as I might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or
their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have subscribed these presents as of March 22, 1995.




                                                   /s/ C. Michael Armstrong
                                                   ------------------------
                                                       C. Michael Armstrong




<PAGE>




                             POWER OF ATTORNEY




     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that I, the undersigned, a director of
The Travelers Inc., a Delaware corporation, do hereby constitute and
appoint Sanford I. Weill, James Dimon, and Charles O. Prince, III, and each
of them severally, to be my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents,
each acting alone with full power of substitution and re-substitution, to
sign my name to an Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Travelers Inc. for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1994, and all amendments thereto, and to
file, or cause to be filed, the same with all exhibits thereto (including
this power of attorney), and other documents in connection therewith with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, provided that such Annual Report on
Form 10-K in final form, and any amendment or amendments thereto and such
other documents, be approved by said attorneys-in-fact, or by any one of
them; and I do hereby grant unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents full
power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing
requisite and necessary to be done in or about the premises, as fully and
to all intents and purposes as I might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or
their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have subscribed these presents as of March 22, 1995.




                                                     /s/ Kenneth J. Bialkin
                                                     ----------------------
                                                         Kenneth J. Bialkin




<PAGE>




                             POWER OF ATTORNEY




     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that I, the undersigned, a director of
The Travelers Inc., a Delaware corporation, do hereby constitute and
appoint Sanford I. Weill, James Dimon, and Charles O. Prince, III, and each
of them severally, to be my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents,
each acting alone with full power of substitution and re-substitution, to
sign my name to an Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Travelers Inc. for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1994, and all amendments thereto, and to
file, or cause to be filed, the same with all exhibits thereto (including
this power of attorney), and other documents in connection therewith with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, provided that such Annual Report on
Form 10-K in final form, and any amendment or amendments thereto and such
other documents, be approved by said attorneys-in-fact, or by any one of
them; and I do hereby grant unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents full
power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing
requisite and necessary to be done in or about the premises, as fully and
to all intents and purposes as I might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or
their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have subscribed these presents as of March 22, 1995.




                                                         /s/ Edward H. Budd
                                                         ------------------
                                                             Edward H. Budd




<PAGE>




                             POWER OF ATTORNEY




     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that I, the undersigned, a director of
The Travelers Inc., a Delaware corporation, do hereby constitute and
appoint Sanford I. Weill, James Dimon, and Charles O. Prince, III, and each
of them severally, to be my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents,
each acting alone with full power of substitution and re-substitution, to
sign my name to an Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Travelers Inc. for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1994, and all amendments thereto, and to
file, or cause to be filed, the same with all exhibits thereto (including
this power of attorney), and other documents in connection therewith with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, provided that such Annual Report on
Form 10-K in final form, and any amendment or amendments thereto and such
other documents, be approved by said attorneys-in-fact, or by any one of
them; and I do hereby grant unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents full
power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing
requisite and necessary to be done in or about the premises, as fully and
to all intents and purposes as I might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or
their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have subscribed these presents as of March 22, 1995.




                                                /s/ Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
                                                ---------------------------
                                                    Joseph A. Califano, Jr.




<PAGE>




                             POWER OF ATTORNEY




     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that I, the undersigned, a director of
The Travelers Inc., a Delaware corporation, do hereby constitute and
appoint Sanford I. Weill, James Dimon, and Charles O. Prince, III, and each
of them severally, to be my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents,
each acting alone with full power of substitution and re-substitution, to
sign my name to an Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Travelers Inc. for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1994, and all amendments thereto, and to
file, or cause to be filed, the same with all exhibits thereto (including
this power of attorney), and other documents in connection therewith with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, provided that such Annual Report on
Form 10-K in final form, and any amendment or amendments thereto and such
other documents, be approved by said attorneys-in-fact, or by any one of
them; and I do hereby grant unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents full
power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing
requisite and necessary to be done in or about the premises, as fully and
to all intents and purposes as I might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or
their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have subscribed these presents as of March 22, 1995.




                                                    /s/ Douglas D. Danforth
                                                    -----------------------
                                                        Douglas D. Danforth




<PAGE>




                             POWER OF ATTORNEY




     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that I, the undersigned, a director of
The Travelers Inc., a Delaware corporation, do hereby constitute and
appoint Sanford I. Weill, James Dimon, and Charles O. Prince, III, and each
of them severally, to be my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents,
each acting alone with full power of substitution and re-substitution, to
sign my name to an Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Travelers Inc. for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1994, and all amendments thereto, and to
file, or cause to be filed, the same with all exhibits thereto (including
this power of attorney), and other documents in connection therewith with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, provided that such Annual Report on
Form 10-K in final form, and any amendment or amendments thereto and such
other documents, be approved by said attorneys-in-fact, or by any one of
them; and I do hereby grant unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents full
power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing
requisite and necessary to be done in or about the premises, as fully and
to all intents and purposes as I might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or
their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have subscribed these presents as of March 22, 1995.




                                                      /s/ Robert F. Daniell
                                                      ---------------------
                                                          Robert F. Daniell




<PAGE>




                             POWER OF ATTORNEY




     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that I, the undersigned, a director of
The Travelers Inc., a Delaware corporation, do hereby constitute and
appoint Sanford I. Weill, James Dimon, and Charles O. Prince, III, and each
of them severally, to be my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents,
each acting alone with full power of substitution and re-substitution, to
sign my name to an Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Travelers Inc. for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1994, and all amendments thereto, and to
file, or cause to be filed, the same with all exhibits thereto (including
this power of attorney), and other documents in connection therewith with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, provided that such Annual Report on
Form 10-K in final form, and any amendment or amendments thereto and such
other documents, be approved by said attorneys-in-fact, or by any one of
them; and I do hereby grant unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents full
power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing
requisite and necessary to be done in or about the premises, as fully and
to all intents and purposes as I might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or
their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have subscribed these presents as of March 22, 1995.




                                                    /s/ Leslie B. Disharoon
                                                    -----------------------
                                                        Leslie B. Disharoon




<PAGE>




                             POWER OF ATTORNEY




     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that I, the undersigned, a director of
The Travelers Inc., a Delaware corporation, do hereby constitute and
appoint Sanford I. Weill, James Dimon, and Charles O. Prince, III, and each
of them severally, to be my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents,
each acting alone with full power of substitution and re-substitution, to
sign my name to an Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Travelers Inc. for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1994, and all amendments thereto, and to
file, or cause to be filed, the same with all exhibits thereto (including
this power of attorney), and other documents in connection therewith with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, provided that such Annual Report on
Form 10-K in final form, and any amendment or amendments thereto and such
other documents, be approved by said attorneys-in-fact, or by any one of
them; and I do hereby grant unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents full
power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing
requisite and necessary to be done in or about the premises, as fully and
to all intents and purposes as I might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or
their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have subscribed these presents as of March 22, 1995.




                                                    /s/ Robert F. Greenhill
                                                    -----------------------
                                                        Robert F. Greenhill




<PAGE>




                             POWER OF ATTORNEY




     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that I, the undersigned, a director of
The Travelers Inc., a Delaware corporation, do hereby constitute and
appoint Sanford I. Weill, James Dimon, and Charles O. Prince, III, and each
of them severally, to be my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents,
each acting alone with full power of substitution and re-substitution, to
sign my name to an Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Travelers Inc. for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1994, and all amendments thereto, and to
file, or cause to be filed, the same with all exhibits thereto (including
this power of attorney), and other documents in connection therewith with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, provided that such Annual Report on
Form 10-K in final form, and any amendment or amendments thereto and such
other documents, be approved by said attorneys-in-fact, or by any one of
them; and I do hereby grant unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents full
power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing
requisite and necessary to be done in or about the premises, as fully and
to all intents and purposes as I might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or
their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have subscribed these presents as of March 22, 1995.




                                                      /s/ Ann Dibble Jordan
                                                      ---------------------
                                                          Ann Dibble Jordan




<PAGE>




                             POWER OF ATTORNEY




     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that I, the undersigned, a director of
The Travelers Inc., a Delaware corporation, do hereby constitute and
appoint Sanford I. Weill, James Dimon, and Charles O. Prince, III, and each
of them severally, to be my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents,
each acting alone with full power of substitution and re-substitution, to
sign my name to an Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Travelers Inc. for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1994, and all amendments thereto, and to
file, or cause to be filed, the same with all exhibits thereto (including
this power of attorney), and other documents in connection therewith with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, provided that such Annual Report on
Form 10-K in final form, and any amendment or amendments thereto and such
other documents, be approved by said attorneys-in-fact, or by any one of
them; and I do hereby grant unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents full
power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing
requisite and necessary to be done in or about the premises, as fully and
to all intents and purposes as I might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or
their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have subscribed these presents as of March 22, 1995.




                                                         /s/ Robert I. Lipp
                                                         ------------------
                                                             Robert I. Lipp




<PAGE>




                             POWER OF ATTORNEY




     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that I, the undersigned, a director of
The Travelers Inc., a Delaware corporation, do hereby constitute and
appoint Sanford I. Weill, James Dimon, and Charles O. Prince, III, and each
of them severally, to be my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents,
each acting alone with full power of substitution and re-substitution, to
sign my name to an Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Travelers Inc. for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1994, and all amendments thereto, and to
file, or cause to be filed, the same with all exhibits thereto (including
this power of attorney), and other documents in connection therewith with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, provided that such Annual Report on
Form 10-K in final form, and any amendment or amendments thereto and such
other documents, be approved by said attorneys-in-fact, or by any one of
them; and I do hereby grant unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents full
power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing
requisite and necessary to be done in or about the premises, as fully and
to all intents and purposes as I might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or
their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have subscribed these presents as of March 22, 1995.




                                                        /s/ Dudley C. Mecum
                                                        -------------------
                                                            Dudley C. Mecum




<PAGE>




                             POWER OF ATTORNEY




     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that I, the undersigned, a director of
The Travelers Inc., a Delaware corporation, do hereby constitute and
appoint Sanford I. Weill, James Dimon, and Charles O. Prince, III, and each
of them severally, to be my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents,
each acting alone with full power of substitution and re-substitution, to
sign my name to an Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Travelers Inc. for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1994, and all amendments thereto, and to
file, or cause to be filed, the same with all exhibits thereto (including
this power of attorney), and other documents in connection therewith with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, provided that such Annual Report on
Form 10-K in final form, and any amendment or amendments thereto and such
other documents, be approved by said attorneys-in-fact, or by any one of
them; and I do hereby grant unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents full
power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing
requisite and necessary to be done in or about the premises, as fully and
to all intents and purposes as I might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or
their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have subscribed these presents as of March 22, 1995.




                                                     /s/ Andrall E. Pearson
                                                     ----------------------
                                                         Andrall E. Pearson




<PAGE>




                             POWER OF ATTORNEY




     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that I, the undersigned, a director of
The Travelers Inc., a Delaware corporation, do hereby constitute and
appoint Sanford I. Weill, James Dimon, and Charles O. Prince, III, and each
of them severally, to be my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents,
each acting alone with full power of substitution and re-substitution, to
sign my name to an Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Travelers Inc. for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1994, and all amendments thereto, and to
file, or cause to be filed, the same with all exhibits thereto (including
this power of attorney), and other documents in connection therewith with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, provided that such Annual Report on
Form 10-K in final form, and any amendment or amendments thereto and such
other documents, be approved by said attorneys-in-fact, or by any one of
them; and I do hereby grant unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents full
power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing
requisite and necessary to be done in or about the premises, as fully and
to all intents and purposes as I might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or
their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have subscribed these presents as of March 22, 1995.




                                                         /s/ Frank J. Tasco
                                                         ------------------
                                                             Frank J. Tasco




<PAGE>




                             POWER OF ATTORNEY




     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that I, the undersigned, a director of
The Travelers Inc., a Delaware corporation, do hereby constitute and
appoint Sanford I. Weill, James Dimon, and Charles O. Prince, III, and each
of them severally, to be my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents,
each acting alone with full power of substitution and re-substitution, to
sign my name to an Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Travelers Inc. for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1994, and all amendments thereto, and to
file, or cause to be filed, the same with all exhibits thereto (including
this power of attorney), and other documents in connection therewith with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, provided that such Annual Report on
Form 10-K in final form, and any amendment or amendments thereto and such
other documents, be approved by said attorneys-in-fact, or by any one of
them; and I do hereby grant unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents full
power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing
requisite and necessary to be done in or about the premises, as fully and
to all intents and purposes as I might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or
their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have subscribed these presents as of March 22, 1995.




                                                  /s/ Joseph R. Wright, Jr.
                                                  -------------------------
                                                      Joseph R. Wright, Jr.




<PAGE>




                             POWER OF ATTORNEY




     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that I, the undersigned, a director of
The Travelers Inc., a Delaware corporation, do hereby constitute and
appoint Sanford I. Weill, James Dimon, and Charles O. Prince, III, and each
of them severally, to be my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents,
each acting alone with full power of substitution and re-substitution, to
sign my name to an Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Travelers Inc. for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1994, and all amendments thereto, and to
file, or cause to be filed, the same with all exhibits thereto (including
this power of attorney), and other documents in connection therewith with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, provided that such Annual Report on
Form 10-K in final form, and any amendment or amendments thereto and such
other documents, be approved by said attorneys-in-fact, or by any one of
them; and I do hereby grant unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents full
power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing
requisite and necessary to be done in or about the premises, as fully and
to all intents and purposes as I might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or
their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have subscribed these presents as of March 22, 1995.




                                                          /s/ Arthur Zankel
                                                          -----------------
                                                              Arthur Zankel








</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27.01
<SEQUENCE>14
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>


<ARTICLE> 5
<LEGEND>
THIS SCHEDULE CONTAINS SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION EXTRACTED FROM THE
DECEMBER 31, 1994 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE TRAVELERS INC. AND IS QUALIFIED
IN ITS ENTIRETY BY REFERENCE TO SUCH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
</LEGEND>
<MULTIPLIER> 1,000,000
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          DEC-31-1994
<PERIOD-END>                               DEC-31-1994
<CASH>                                           1,227
<SECURITIES>                                    71,720<F1>
<RECEIVABLES>                                   19,002<F2>
<ALLOWANCES>                                         0<F3>
<INVENTORY>                                          0<F3>
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                     0<F3>
<PP&E>                                               0<F3>
<DEPRECIATION>                                       0<F3>
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                 115,297
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                                0<F3>
<BONDS>                                         13,929<F4>
<COMMON>                                             4
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                              138
<PREFERRED>                                        800
<OTHER-SE>                                       7,836<F5>
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                   115,297
<SALES>                                              0<F3>
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                18,465
<CGS>                                                0<F3>
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                   16,570
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                     0<F3>
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                   152<F6>
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                               1,284<F6>
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                  2,149
<INCOME-TAX>                                       823
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                              1,326
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0<F3>
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0<F3>
<CHANGES>                                            0<F3>
<NET-INCOME>                                     1,326
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                     3.86
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     0.00<F3>
<FN>
<F1>Includes the following items from the financial statements: total
investments $39,120; securities borrowed or purchased under agreements
to resell $25,655; and trading securities owned, at market value $6,945
<F2>Includes the following items from the financial statements: brokerage
receivables $8,238; net consumer finance receivables $6,746 and other
receivables $4,018.
<F3>Items which are inapplicable relative to the underlying financial
statements are indicated with a zero as required.
<F4>Includes the following items from the financial statements: investment
banking and brokerage borrowings $4,374; short-term borrowings $2,480
and long-term debt $7,075.
<F5>Includes the following items from the financial statements: additional
paid-in capital $6,655; retained earnings $4,199; treasury stock $(1,553);
and unrealized gain (loss) on investment securities and other, $(1,465).
<F6>Included in total costs and expenses applicable to sales and revenues.
</FN>
        

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.01
<SEQUENCE>15
<TEXT>


<TABLE>
                                                                                   Exhibit 99.01


<CAPTION>

THE TRAVELERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF
OPERATIONS AND RETAINED EARNINGS                         Pre-merger, historical accounting basis

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(For the year ended December 31, in millions)               1993            1992            1991
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                    <C>            <C>              <C>
Revenues
Premiums                                                $  6,584       $  6,688        $  7,302
Net investment income                                      2,600          2,799           3,228
Realized investment gains (losses)                           209           (635)             (2)
Other, including gains and losses on dispositions            891            823             849
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          10,284          9,675          11,377
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Benefits and expenses
Current and future insurance benefits                      5,956          6,196           6,314
Interest credited to contractholders                       1,206          1,456           1,656
Loss adjustment expenses                                     895            951             975
Amortization of deferred acquisition costs                   531            558             569
General and administrative expenses                        1,464          1,868           1,540
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          10,052         11,029          11,054
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income (loss) before federal income taxes,
  extraordinary credit and cumulative effects
  of changes in accounting principles                        232         (1,354)            323
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal income taxes
Current                                                       86            (23)             48
Deferred                                                    (142)          (503)            (32)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                             (56)          (526)             16
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income (loss) before extraordinary credit
  and cumulative effects of changes in
  accounting principles                                      288           (828)            307
Extraordinary credit                                           -              -              11
Cumulative effect of change in accounting
  for postretirement benefits other than
  pensions, net of tax                                         -           (258)              -
Cumulative effect of change in accounting
  for income taxes                                             -            428               -
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income (loss)                                            288           (658)            318
Retained earnings beginning of year                        2,865          3,724           3,583
Dividends to preference shareholders                         (55)           (38)            (18)
Dividends to common shareholders                            (231)          (167)           (165)
Tax benefit on preference dividends                            4              4               6
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Retained earnings end of year                           $  2,871       $  2,865        $  3,724
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Per common share (in dollars)
Primary
  Income (loss) before extraordinary credit and
    cumulative effects of changes in
    accounting principles                                    N/A       $  (8.11)       $   2.87
  Extraordinary credit                                       N/A              -             .10
  Cumulative effect of change in accounting
    for postretirement benefits other than
    pensions, net of tax                                     N/A          (2.43)              -
Cumulative effect of change in accounting
    for income taxes                                         N/A           4.03               -
  Net income (loss)                                          N/A          (6.51)           2.97
Assuming full dilution
  Income (loss) before extraordinary credit and
    cumulative effects of changes in
    accounting principles                                    N/A          (8.11)           2.80
  Extraordinary credit                                       N/A              -             .09
  Cumulative effect of change in accounting
    for postretirement benefits other than
    pensions, net of tax                                     N/A          (2.43)              -
Cumulative effect of change in accounting
    for income taxes                                         N/A           4.03               -
Net income (loss)                                            N/A          (6.51)           2.89
Dividends                                                   1.60           1.60            1.60
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
See notes to financial statements.


<PAGE>


</TABLE>
<TABLE><CAPTION>

THE TRAVELERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET                               Pre-merger, historical accounting basis

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(At December 31, in millions)                                       1993                    1992
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                             <C>                    <C>
Assets
Fixed maturities
  Bonds (market, $16,832; $14,774)                              $ 15,887                $ 13,950
  Trading portfolio securities (cost, $8,747; $8,622)              8,952                   8,944
  Redeemable preferred stocks (market, $39; $53)                      37                      52
Equity securities, at market
  Common stocks (cost, $88; $114)                                    156                     151
  Nonredeemable preferred stocks (cost, $164; $137)                  170                     138
Mortgage loans                                                     7,490                  10,072
Investment real estate, net of accumulated depreciation 
  of $39; $54                                                        593                     826
Real estate held for sale, net of accumulated depreciation 
  of $97; $133                                                       806                   1,332
Policy loans                                                       1,212                   1,210
Short-term securities                                                998                   1,341
Other investments                                                  1,226                   1,313
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total investments                                                 37,527                  39,329
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash and cash equivalents                                            798                   1,688
Investment income accrued                                            496                     510
Premium balances receivable                                        1,771                   1,855
Reinsurance recoverable                                            4,196                   4,168
Deferred acquisition costs                                           827                     791
Deferred federal income taxes                                      1,523                   1,371
Separate and variable accounts                                     4,588                   5,330
Other assets                                                       2,884                   2,987
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total assets                                                    $ 54,610                $ 58,029
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Liabilities
Contractholder funds                                            $ 17,729                $ 19,276
Benefit and loss reserves                                         20,224                  20,173
Unearned premium reserves                                          1,782                   1,790
Policy and contract claims                                         1,099                   1,129
Short-term debt                                                        -                      64
Long-term debt                                                       752                   1,124
Current federal income taxes                                         175                      73
Separate and variable accounts                                     4,485                   5,251
Other liabilities                                                  3,239                   4,095
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total liabilities                                                 49,485                  52,975
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Commitments and contingencies - note 9
ESOP Preference stock series A                                       235                     225
Guaranteed ESOP obligation                                          (125)                   (149)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                     110                      76
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Shareholders' equity
Preference stock series B                                            375                     375
Common stock (147 and 145 shares issued)                             184                     182
Additional paid-in capital                                         1,442                   1,400
Unrealized investment gains, net of taxes                            181                     197
Retained earnings                                                  2,871                   2,865
Cost of common stock in treasury                                     (38)                    (41)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total shareholders' equity                                         5,015                   4,978
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                                           $ 54,610                $ 58,029
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Shareholders' equity per common share (in dollars)                   N/A                $  31.96
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>

See notes to financial statements.



<PAGE>


<TABLE><CAPTION>

THE TRAVELERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS             Pre-merger, historical accounting basis

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(For the year ended December 31, in millions)               1993              1992              1991
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                     <C>               <C>              <C>      
Cash flows from operating activities
Premiums collected                                      $  6,333          $  6,645          $  7,464
Net investment income received                             2,496             2,837             3,243
Other revenues received                                      582               615               682
Benefits and claims paid, net                             (6,481)           (6,677)           (6,916)
Interest credited to contractholders                      (1,154)           (1,404)           (1,618)
Operating expenses paid                                   (2,045)           (2,003)           (2,289)
Income taxes refunded (paid)                                  33               (41)              (81)
Trading account investments, (purchases) sales, net         (998)             (938)           (1,973)
Other                                                        306               239               174
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net cash used in operating activities                       (928)             (727)           (1,314)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash flows from investing activities
 Investment repayments
  Fixed maturities                                         3,824             3,161             2,843
  Mortgage loans                                           1,475             1,360               994
Proceeds from investments sold
  Fixed maturities                                         1,203             1,103             3,440
  Equity securities                                          172               839               661
  Mortgage loans                                             344               303               198
  Real estate                                              1,000               270               122
Investments in
  Fixed maturities                                        (6,154)           (5,143)           (4,670)
  Equity securities                                         (181)             (582)             (670)
  Mortgage loans                                            (211)             (159)             (237)
  Real estate                                                (92)              (61)              (37)
  Policy loans, net                                           (2)             (184)             (184)
  Short-term securities, (purchases) sales, net              342               242               (16)
  Other investments, (purchases) sales, net                   59                51               (47)
Securities transactions in course of settlement              (44)              671              (884)
Proceeds from disposition of subsidiaries and 
  other operations                                            48                 9               122
Other                                                         (9)               65              (101)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net cash provided by investing activities                  1,774             1,945             1,534
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash flows from financing activities
Issuance (redemption) of short-term debt, net                 (9)               64              (185)
Issuance (redemption) of certificates of deposit, net         19              (136)             (415)
Issuance of long-term debt                                     -               367                95
Payments of long-term debt                                  (319)             (169)              (68)
Contractholder fund deposits                               3,159             3,048             4,101
Contractholder fund withdrawals                           (4,418)           (5,003)           (5,325)
Issuance of preference stock series B                          -               375                 -
Issuance of common stock                                       -               550                 -
Dividends to shareholders                                   (278)             (196)             (182)
Other                                                        110                59                83
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net cash used in financing activities                     (1,736)           (1,041)           (1,896)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents    $   (890)         $    177          $ (1,676)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash and cash equivalents at December 31                $    798          $  1,688          $  1,511
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interest paid                                           $     96          $    140          $    306
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>

See notes to financial statements.



<PAGE>



            THE TRAVELERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
            ------------------------------------------
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                  -----------------------------


1. Summary Of Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of presentation.  The financial statements and the
accompanying notes reflect the operations of The Travelers
Corporation and its subsidiaries (the Company) for the years
ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991 on a historical accounting
basis.  On December 31, 1993, The Travelers Inc. (formerly
Primerica Corporation) acquired the approximately 73% of the
Company which it did not already own (the Merger).  No
adjustments have been made to the financial statements and the
accompanying notes to reflect the merger of the Company into The
Travelers Inc. or to reflect any of the capital transactions
related to the Merger.  For discussion of the merger see note 23.

Changes in accounting principles.  In the first quarter of 1993,
the Company implemented Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 113, "Accounting and Reporting for Reinsurance of
Short-Duration and Long-Duration Contracts" (FAS 113).  Further
disclosures relating to FAS 113 are included in note 2.

 In July 1993, the Financial Accounting Standards Board Emerging
Issues Task Force (EITF) reached a conclusion on Issue No. 93-6
"Accounting for Multiple-Year Retrospectively Rated Contracts by
Ceding and Assuming Enterprises" (EITF No. 93-6).  Further
disclosures relating to EITF No. 93-6 are included in
note 2.

 In the third quarter of 1992, the Company implemented Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, "Employers' Accounting
for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pension" (FAS 106), and
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting
for Income Taxes" (FAS 109).  These accounting changes were
implemented with retroactive application to January 1, 1992. 
Further disclosures relating to FAS 106 and FAS 109 are included
in note 2.

 As of December 31, 1992, the Company implemented the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants' Statement of Position
92-3, "Accounting for Foreclosed Assets" (SOP 92-3).  This
accounting change was implemented with prospective application. 
Further disclosures relating to SOP 92-3 are included in note 2.

Principles of consolidation.  The financial statements have been
prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles and include the Company and its insurance and
significant noninsurance subsidiaries on a fully consolidated
basis.  Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to
conform with the 1993 presentation.

Investments.  The aggregate carrying values of fixed maturities,
equity securities, mortgage loans and real estate are determined
after deducting appropriate investment valuation reserves. 
Investment valuation reserves are discussed below and are
presented in note 16.

 Fixed maturities comprise bonds and redeemable preferred stocks
and the majority are carried at amortized cost, since the Company

                                - 1 -





<PAGE>



has the ability and intention to hold those securities on a long-
term basis.  Trading portfolio securities, consisting of fixed
maturities that are likely to be sold prior to maturity, are
carried at current market value.  Transfers of securities from
the amortized cost portfolio to the trading portfolio result in
adjustments to unrealized investment gains or losses, which are
included in shareholders' equity.

 Equity securities, which consist of common and nonredeemable
preferred stocks, are generally carried at market value as of the
balance sheet date.

 Mortgage loans are carried at the aggregate of the unpaid
balances and include in-substance foreclosures.

 Real estate is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. 
Real estate held for sale is carried at the lower of cost or fair
value less estimated costs to sell.  At foreclosure, real estate
is recorded at the lower of the unpaid principal balance or fair
value.  Fair value is established at time of foreclosure by
appraisers, both internal and external, using discounted cash
flow analyses and other acceptable techniques.

 Effective January 1, 1994, the Company will adopt Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 115, "Accounting for Certain
Debt and Equity Securities" (FAS 115).  FAS 115 addresses
accounting and reporting for investments in equity securities
that have a readily determinable fair value and for all debt
securities.

 Accrual of income is suspended on fixed maturities or mortgage
loans that are in default, or on which it is likely that future
interest payments will not be made as scheduled, and interest
income on investments in default is recognized only as payment is
received.

 Gains or losses arising from futures contracts used to hedge
investments are treated as basis adjustments and are recognized
in income over the life of the hedged investments.

 Gains and losses arising from forward contracts used to hedge
foreign investments in the Company's U.S. portfolios are a
component of realized investment gains and losses.  Gains and
losses arising from forward contracts used to hedge investments
in foreign operations (primarily Canadian) are generally
reflected directly in shareholders' equity.

 Rate differentials on interest rate swap agreements are accrued
and recognized as an adjustment to interest income from the
related item.

Investment gains and losses.  Realized investment gains and
losses are included as a component of pretax revenues based upon
specific identification of the investments sold on the trade date
and include adjustments to investment valuation reserves.  These
adjustments reflect changes considered to be other than temporary
in the net realizable value of investments.  Also included are
gains and losses arising from the translation of the local
currency value of foreign investments to U.S. dollars, the
functional currency of the Company.

 Unrealized investment gains and losses on equity securities,
trading portfolio fixed maturities and investments in foreign
operations (primarily Canadian), net of related taxes, are

                                - 2 -





<PAGE>



generally reflected directly in shareholders' equity.

Policy loans.  Policy loans are carried at the amount of the
unpaid balances that are not in excess of the net cash surrender
values of the related insurance policies.  The carrying value of
policy loans, which have no defined maturities, is considered to
be fair value.

Cash and cash equivalents.  Cash equivalents include liquid
investments with maturities of 90 days or less when purchased. 
The carrying value of these instruments approximates their fair
value.

Deferred acquisition costs.  Commissions and premium taxes
incurred in connection with property-casualty insurance are
deferred and amortized pro rata over the contract periods in
which the related premiums are  earned.  Future investment income
attributable to related premiums is taken into account in
assessing the carrying value of this asset.  All other
acquisition expenses are charged to operations as incurred.

 Costs of acquiring individual life insurance, annuities and
accident and health business, principally commissions and certain
expenses related to policy issuance, underwriting and marketing,
all of which vary with and are primarily related to the
production of new business, are deferred.  For traditional
insurance products, these costs are amortized, with interest, in
proportion to the ratio of estimated annual revenues to the
estimated total revenues over the contract period.  For most life
insurance, a 20- to 30-year amortization period is used, and a
10- to 15-year period is used for variable annuities.  A 10-year
period is used for guaranteed renewable health policies. 
Deferred acquisition costs for universal life contracts and
certain annuity contracts are amortized at a constant rate based
upon the present value of estimated gross profit expected to be
realized over the life of the contracts, which is reevaluated
annually.

Separate and variable accounts.  Separate and variable accounts
primarily represent funds for which investment income and
investment gains and losses accrue directly to, and investment
risk is borne by, the contractholders.  Each account has specific
investment objectives.  The assets of each account are legally
segregated and are not subject to claims that arise out of any
other business of the Company.  The assets of these accounts are
carried at market value.  Certain other separate accounts provide
guaranteed levels of return or benefits.  The assets of these
accounts are carried at amortized cost.  Amounts assessed to the
contractholders for management services are included in revenues. 
Deposits, net investment income and realized investment gains and
losses for these accounts are excluded from revenues, and related
liability increases are excluded from benefits and expenses.

Other assets.  Goodwill is being amortized over periods generally
not exceeding 25 years and other intangibles over their estimated
useful lives.  Goodwill is included in other assets in the
consolidated balance sheet and amounted to $91 million and $97
million at December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

                                - 3 -





<PAGE>



 Receivables related to retrospectively rated policies on 
property-casualty business, net of allowance for estimated
uncollectible amounts, are included in other assets.

Contractholder funds.  Contractholder funds represent receipts
from the issuance of universal life, pension investment and
certain individual annuity contracts.  Such receipts are
considered deposits on investment contracts that do not have
substantial mortality or morbidity risk.

 Account balances are also increased by interest credited and reduced 
by withdrawals, mortality charges and administrative expenses
charged to the contractholders.  Calculations of contractholder
account balances for investment contracts reflect lapse,
withdrawal and interest rate assumptions based on contract
provisions, the Company's experience and industry standards. 
Interest rates range from 2.90% to 17.42%.  Contractholder funds
also include other funds that policyholders leave on deposit with
the Company.

Benefit and loss reserves.  Benefit reserves for traditional
individual life insurance, annuities and accident and health
policies have been computed based upon mortality, morbidity,
lapse and interest assumptions applicable to these coverages,
including provision for  adverse deviations.  Interest rates
range from 2.00% to 14.00%, and mortality, morbidity and
withdrawal assumptions reflect the Company's experience and
industry standards.  The assumptions vary by plan, age at issue,
year of issue and duration.

 Traditional group life insurance, certain pension contracts and 
accident and health benefit reserves have been computed generally
using interest rates ranging from 2.00% to 16.35%, and mortality,
morbidity and withdrawal assumptions based on the Company's
experience and industry standards.  Appropriate recognition has
been given to experience rating and reinsurance.

 Property-casualty reserves include (1) unearned premiums representing 
the unexpired portion of policy premiums, including adjustments
for reinsurance, and (2) estimated provisions for both reported
and unreported claims incurred and related expenses.  The
reserves are regularly adjusted based upon experience.  Included
in the benefit and loss reserves in the consolidated balance
sheet at December 31, 1993 and 1992, are $796 million and $736
million, respectively, of property-casualty loss reserves that
have been discounted using an interest rate of 5%.

Premiums.  Premiums are recognized as revenues when due. 
Reserves are established for the portion of premiums that will be
earned in future periods and for deferred profits on limited-
payment policies that are being recognized in income over the
policy term.

Other revenues.  Other revenues include surrender, mortality and
administrative charges and fees as earned on investment,
universal life and other insurance contracts.  Other revenues
also include gains and losses on dispositions of assets other
than realized investment gains and losses and revenues of
noninsurance subsidiaries.


                              - 4 -





<PAGE>



Interest credited to contractholders.  Interest credited to
contractholders represents amounts earned by universal life,
pension investment and certain individual annuity contracts in
accordance with contract provisions.

Federal income taxes.  The provision for federal income taxes is
comprised of two components, current income taxes and deferred
income taxes.  Deferred federal income taxes arise from changes
in the Company's deferred federal income tax asset during the
year.  The deferred federal income tax asset is recognized to the
extent that future realization of the tax benefit is more likely
than not, with a valuation allowance for the portion that is not
likely to be recognized.  The impact of the Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act of 1993, the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act
of 1990 and the Tax Reform Act of 1986 on net income is discussed
in note 14.

Accounting standards not yet adopted.  In November 1992, the
Financial Accounting Standards Board (the Board) issued Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 112, "Employers' Accounting
for Postemployment Benefits" (FAS 112).  The Company must adopt
FAS 112 for its financial statements no later than January 1,
1994.

FAS 112 establishes accounting standards for employers who provide
benefits to former or inactive employees after employment, but
before retirement.  The statement requires employers to recognize
the cost of the obligation to provide these benefits on an
accrual basis.  Employers must implement this guidance by
recognizing a cumulative catch-up adjustment.  The Company
estimates that the adoption of FAS 112 will have a pretax impact
of $57 million.

In May 1993, the Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 114, "Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a
Loan"  (FAS 114).  The Company must adopt FAS 114 for its
financial statements no later than January 1, 1995.

FAS 114 describes how impaired loans should be measured when 
determining the amount of a loan loss accrual.  The Statement
also amends existing guidance on the measurement of restructured
loans in a troubled debt restructuring involving a modification
of terms.  The Company has not yet determined when it will adopt
FAS 114 or the impact this statement will have on its financial
statements.

 On January 1, 1994, the Company will adopt Statement of Financial 
Accounting Standards No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments
in Debt and Equity Securities", (FAS 115) which addresses
accounting and reporting for investments in equity securities
that have a readily determinable fair value and for all debt
securities.  Those investments are to be classified in one of
three categories.  Debt securities that the Company has the
positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are to be
classified as "held to maturity" and are to be reported at
amortized cost.  Securities that are bought and held principally
for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified
as "trading securities" and are to be reported at fair value,
with unrealized gains and losses included in earnings. 
Securities that are neither to be held to maturity nor to be sold
in the near term are classified as "available for sale" and are
to be reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses
excluded from earnings and reported as a component of

                              - 5 -





<PAGE>



shareholders' equity.  At December 31, 1993, the market value of
fixed maturities exceeded the carrying value by $947 million.
Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 39, 
"Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts",
(Interpretation 39) must be adopted by the Company for its first
quarter 1994 financial statements.

 The general principle of Interpretation 39 states that amounts due 
from and due to another party may not be offset in the balance
sheet unless a right of setoff exists.  The Company currently
maintains contracts where amounts due from customers are offset
against amounts due to others.  Implementation of Interpretation
39 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's
financial position; however, assets and liabilities will be
increased by like amounts.


2. Changes in Accounting Principles

Accounting and reporting for reinsurance contracts.  In the first
quarter of 1993, the Company changed its method of reporting for
reinsurance in compliance with FAS 113.  FAS 113 requires the
reporting of reinsurance receivables and prepaid reinsurance
premiums as assets and precludes the immediate recognition of
gains for all reinsurance contracts unless the liability to the
policyholder has been extinguished.  Implementation of FAS 113
did not have an impact on earnings, however, assets and
liabilities increased by like amounts.  Assets and liabilities
within the consolidated balance sheet were increased by $4,427
million as of December 31, 1992.  See note 15 for additional
disclosures.

Accounting for multiple-year retrospectively rated contracts. 
EITF No. 93-6 clarifies the accounting for certain reinsurance
agreements with restrospectively rated features.  The Company
changed its method of accounting for such contracts to conform
with the conclusion of the EITF.  The effects of the change in
method of accounting did not materially impact the Company's
financial results.
 


Postretirement benefits other than pensions.  In the third
quarter of 1992, the Company changed its method of accounting for
the costs of its retiree benefit plans, in compliance with FAS
106.  This change was made effective as of January 1, 1992.  FAS
106 requires the Company to accrue the cost of postretirement
benefits over the years of service rendered by an employee. 
Previously these costs were accounted for on a
"pay-as-you-go" (cash) basis.

 The implementation of FAS 106 resulted in a one time noncash 
after-tax charge to net income of $258 million in the first quarter 
of 1992.  See note 13 for further discussion of FAS 106.

Accounting for income taxes.  During the third quarter of 1992,
the Company adopted FAS 109 with retroactive application to
January 1, 1992.  FAS 109 establishes new principles for

                              - 6 -




<PAGE>



calculating and reporting the effects of federal income taxes in
the financial statements.  FAS 109 replaces the income statement
orientation inherent in the prior income tax accounting standard
with a balance sheet approach.  Under the new approach, deferred
tax assets and liabilities are generally determined based on the
difference between the financial statement and tax bases of
assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the
year in which the differences are expected to reverse.  FAS 109
allows recognition of deferred tax assets if future realization
of the tax benefit is more likely than not, with a valuation
allowance for the portion that is not likely to be recognized.

 The implementation of FAS 109 resulted in a one time increase to 
earnings of $428 million in the first quarter of 1992.  This
increase in earnings was principally due to the accelerated
recognition of "fresh start" tax benefits, tax rate differences
and the recognition of a portion of previously unrecognized
deferred tax assets.  See note 14 for further discussion of FAS
109.

Accounting for foreclosed assets.  In February 1993, the Company
announced its intent to accelerate the sale of foreclosed real
estate and, effective December 31, 1992, changed its method of
accounting for foreclosed assets in compliance with SOP 92-3. 
This guidance requires that in-substance foreclosures and
foreclosed assets held for sale be carried at the lower of cost
or fair value less estimated costs to sell.  Previously, all
foreclosed assets were carried at cost less accumulated
depreciation.  This accounting change resulted in a pretax charge
of $437 million to realized investment losses in 1992.


3. Acquisitions and Dispositions

In the third quarter of 1993, the Company sold The Massachusetts
Company (TMC), its banking subsidiary, and received cash proceeds
of $53 million.  Consolidated assets and liabilities were reduced
as a result of this disposition.  TMC assets, consisting
primarily of mortgage loans and fixed maturities, were $949
million at the date of sale.  Liabilities, consisting primarily
of customer deposits, were $896 million at the date of sale.  The
impact of this sale was insignificant to the consolidated
financial results of the Company.

 In December 1992, the Company acquired a 50% interest in
Commercial Insurance Resources, Inc., and acquired Transport Life
Insurance  Company's preferred provider and third party
administrator organizations from Primerica Corporation (see note
23).

 In the fourth quarter of 1991, the Company sold Dillon, Read
Inc. (Dillon Read), its investment banking subsidiary.  The
Company received cash proceeds of $122 million.  Consolidated
assets and liabilities were reduced as a result of this
disposition.  Dillon Read assets, consisting primarily of cash
and cash equivalents of $2.7 billion and investments, were $4.3 
billion at the date of sale.  Liabilities, consisting primarily of 
securities sold under repurchase agreements, were $4.2 billion at 
the date of sale. The pretax loss on the sale of $41 million is 
included in other revenues.

                              - 7 -





<PAGE>




 In the fourth quarter of 1990, the Company completed the sale
of its wholly owned subsidiary, the Travelers Mortgage Services,
Inc. (TMSI), which originates and services home mortgage loans
and operates a relocation services business.  Sales proceeds of
$210 million are subject to final settlement adjustments which,
in the opinion of management, are not expected to be material. 
On an after-tax basis, the gain on this transaction was
insignificant.  Under the terms of the sales agreement, the
Company has indemnified the purchaser for losses from certain
preclosing activities and for excess losses that may be
experienced on a portfolio of mortgage loans generated prior to
the sale, which losses will be calculated following the third
anniversary of the sale.  A reserve has been established for
these items based upon management's current estimate of the range
of potential losses.  These estimates are subject to revision as
indemnifiable losses are identified and actual excess losses on
the indemnified portfolio are realized.
 Revenues, income before federal income taxes and net income of
TMC and Dillon Read are as follows:

                                                            
========================================================================
                                            TMC             Dillon Read
                                    -------------------   --------------
(in millions)                       1993*   1992   1991        1991*
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Revenues                             $20     $26    $58        $135
Income before federal income taxes    10      10     33           9
Net income                             7       7     22           5
========================================================================
*  Through the date of sale.

 In addition, the Company sold and/or purchased several other
interests, subsidiaries and operations in 1993, 1992 and 1991. 
The impact of these transactions was not material to the
consolidated financial results of the Company.  Net losses on
dispositions after related income taxes amounted to $2 million
and $33 million for 1993 and 1991, respectively.  Net gains on
dispositions after related income taxes amounted to $3 million
for 1992. 


4. Selected Consolidated Quarterly and Other Financial Data

Selected unaudited consolidated quarterly and other financial
data for 1993 and 1992 are presented on pages 35-37.

5. Debt

=============================================================
(in millions)                             1993           1992
-------------------------------------------------------------
Short-term debt
 Federal Home Loan Bank advances             -           $ 64
-------------------------------------------------------------
Long-term debt
  9 1/2% senior notes                      $300          $300
  8.32% debentures                            -           194
  12% GNMA/FNMA-collateralized obligations  132           188
  7 5/8% notes                              185           185
  ESOP note guarantee                       125           149
  Federal Home Loan Bank advances             -            90
  Other                                      10            18
-------------------------------------------------------------
                                           $752        $1,124
=============================================================



                              - 8 -





<PAGE>



At December 31, 1993 and 1992, the estimated fair value of the
Company's long-term debt was $821 million and $1.2 billion,
respectively, primarily determined by quoted market prices.

Senior Notes.  On March 10, 1992, the Company issued $300 million
of 9 1/2% senior notes which mature on March 1, 2002.  No
principal or sinking fund payments are required prior to maturity
date.  The senior notes rank equally with all other unsecured,
unsubordinated obligations of the Company.  On December 31, 1993,
in conjunction with the Merger, these notes were assumed by The
Travelers Inc.

Debentures.  On December 28, 1993, the Company defeased all of
its 8.32% convertible subordinated debentures due 2015.  The
debentures will be redeemed on March 10, 1994 at a price of
$1,008.30 in cash per $1,000 of principal amount.  As of December
27, 1993, approximately $194 million principal amount of the
debentures was outstanding.

GNMA/FNMA-collateralized obligations.  The 12% obligations of
Travelers Mortgage Securities Corporation have a stated maturity
(assuming no prepayments) of March 1, 2014.  Distributions on the
GNMA and FNMA certificates, together with reinvestment earnings,
are used to make principal and interest payments on the
obligations.  Since the rate of payment of principal depends on
the rate of payment (including prepayments) of the underlying
GNMA and FNMA certificates, the actual annual amounts of future
principal payments cannot be reasonably estimated.

 The approximate minimum principal payments to be made in each of the 
next five years, assuming no further prepayments on the GNMA and
FNMA certificates, are as follows:

                                                
         =======================================
         (in millions)                          
         ---------------------------------------

         1994                                $18
         1995                                  2
         1996                                  2
         1997                                  2
         1998                                  3
         =======================================


Notes.  The 7 5/8% notes were issued in January 1987 and mature
on January 15, 1997.  No principal payments are required prior to
the maturity date.  On December 31, 1993, in conjunction with the
Merger, these notes were assumed by The Travelers Inc.

ESOP note guarantee.  The Company has guaranteed the loan
obligation of its Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) (see note
13).  The minimum principal payments to be made in 1994, 1995,
1996 and 1997 are $28 million, $30 million, $32 million and $35 million,
respectively.  On December 31, 1993, in conjunction with the
Merger, this guarantee was assumed by The Travelers Inc.

Federal Home Loan Bank advances.  In 1992, the Company's banking
subsidiary became a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank and
participated in its Advance Program.  Advances outstanding at
December 31, 1992 had various maturity dates from February 1993
to April 2002 and had interest rates ranging from 3.68% to 7.91%. 
At December 31, 1992, $205 million of mortgage loans were pledged
to collateralize these advances.  The subsidiary was sold during
the third quarter of 1993.

Lines of credit.  At December 31, 1993, the Company and its
subsidiaries had approximately $275 million of unused lines of
credit, all of which expires beyond December 31, 1994.



                              - 9 -

<PAGE>


6. Capital And Preference Stock

Number of shares at December 31, 1993:

================================================================================
                                  Issued        Treasury Stock       Outstanding
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Common stock,
  par value $1.25,
  500,000,000 authorized     146,872,701             1,256,405       145,616,296
Preferred stock,
  no par value,
  10,000,000 authorized                -                     -                 -
Preference stock,
  no par value,
  25,000,000 authorized
     Series A,
     $53.25 stated value       4,406,431                     -         4,406,431
     Series B,
     $50 stated value          7,500,000                     -         7,500,000
================================================================================

On December 31, 1993, each outstanding share of the Company's common
stock (except for shares issued and held by The Travelers Inc., shares
in treasury of the Company and dissenting shares) was converted into
.80423 of a share of The Travelers Inc. common stock.

Common Stock.  Summary of activity in common stock outstanding:

==============================================================================
                                              1993          1992          1991
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance beginning of year              144,020,518   104,156,082   102,170,021
Shares issued                              736,388    38,026,314             -
Dividend reinvestment plan                 378,542     1,662,282       719,694
Accrued vacation
  buy-back plan                                  -             -       874,877
Exercise of options                        793,397       134,074        31,397
Restricted stock awards                    240,836       134,072       335,179
Acquired for treasury                     (367,955)      (82,217)            -
Other                                     (185,430)      (10,089)       24,914
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance end of year, prior to merger   145,616,296   144,020,518   104,156,082
==============================================================================

At December 31, 1993, prior to the Merger, unissued common shares
were reserved for the following:
                                                       
=======================================================
Stock plans                                   8,383,316
Conversion of Series A preference shares      4,406,431
Conversion of debentures                      3,776,848
Dividend reinvestment plan                      744,660
Other                                           129,563
-------------------------------------------------------
Total                                        17,440,818
=======================================================








                              - 10 -


<PAGE>

Common stock purchase rights.  In 1986, the Company adopted a Share
Purchase Rights Plan, and a dividend distribution of one common share
purchase right on each outstanding share of common stock was declared
and paid.  The rights traded automatically with the common shares. 
These rights were redeemed by the Company for $.05 per right effective
December 30, 1993 and payment was made by The Travelers Inc.  As a
result of the redemption, the Rights Plan became of no further force
and effect.

Series A convertible preference stock.  The Company's $4.53 Series A
ESOP Convertible Preference Stock was issued to prefund the Company's
matching obligation under one of its benefit plans (see note 13).  On
December 31, 1993, in conjunction with the Merger, the $4.53 Series A
ESOP Convertible Preference Stock was converted into shares of The
Travelers Inc. Series C Preferred Stock with substantially similar
terms as the Series A shares.

Series B preference stock.  In June 1992, 7,500,000 shares of the
Company's 9 1/4% Series B preference stock were issued at a stated
value of $50 per share.  The Series B preference shares were held in
the form of depositary shares, with two depositary shares representing
each preference share.  Annual dividends of $4.625 per share ($2.3125
per depositary share) were payable quarterly.  Dividends were
cumulative from the date of issue.  The Series B preference stock was
not redeemable prior to July 1, 1997.  On and after July 1, 1997, the
stock was redeemable at the Company's option, in whole or in part, at
any time, at a price of $50 per share (equivalent to $25 per
depositary share), plus accrued and unpaid dividends, if any, to the
redemption date.

 In the event that dividends on the Series B preference stock were in
arrears in an amount equal to at least six full quarterly dividends,
holders of the stock would have the right to elect two additional 
directors to the Company's Board of Directors.

 On December 31, 1993, in conjunction with the Merger, the Series B
preference stock was converted into shares of The Travelers Inc.
Series D Preferred Stock with substantially similar terms as the
Series B shares.

Accrued vacation buy-back plan.  Under the Accrued Vacation Buy-Back
Plan, employees elected in 1991 either to exchange accumulated unused
vacation balances as of January 1, 1991 for shares of the Company's
common stock, or use such days before December 31, 1993.  Under this
plan, 874,877 shares of the Company's common stock were issued in June
1991.  These elections resulted in after-tax income of $4 million in
1991.

Additional paid-in capital.  The changes in additional paid-in capital
for the three years ended December 31, 1993 are primarily attributable 
to the issuance of common stock in connection with The Travelers Inc. 
investment in 1992 (see note 23), the Accrued Vacation Buy-Back Plan 
in 1991, and the issuance of common stock in connection with the dividend 
reinvestment plan, exercise of stock options and restricted stock awards 
in all three years.

Unrealized investment gains (losses).  An analysis of the change in
unrealized gains and losses on investments is shown in note 16.

7. Shareholders' Equity and Dividend Availability

State insurance regulatory authorities prescribe statutory accounting
practices for calculating net income and capital and surplus that
differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting
principles (GAAP).  The significant differences relate to deferred
acquisition costs, which are charged to expenses as incurred; federal
income taxes, which reflect amounts that are currently taxable;
postretirement benefits, which are accrued for retirees and fully
eligible employees, including amortization of the transition
obligation over 20 years; and benefit reserves, which are determined
using mortality, morbidity and interest assumptions, and which, when
considered in light of the assets supporting these reserves,
adequately provide for obligations under policies and contracts.  In
addition, the recording of impairments in the value of investments
generally lags recognition under GAAP.  Statutory net income and
capital and surplus also include the benefit of certain actions taken
by the Company, with the approval of state insurance regulatory
authorities, to strengthen its statutory capital position.


                              - 11 -





<PAGE>

 The tables below reconcile consolidated statutory net income and
statutory capital and surplus computed in accordance with state
insurance regulatory practices with consolidated net income and
shareholders' equity as reported herein in conformity with GAAP.

==============================================================================
Net income (loss) for the year ended December 31          
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(in millions)                                     1993        1992        1991
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Statutory net income (loss)
 Life companies                                  $(601)     $ (319)     $  (55)
 Property-casualty companies                       123        (237)        258
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                             (478)       (556)        203
Adjustments to life and health
 reserves and contractholder funds                 (68)         (2)       (120)
Deferred acquisition costs                          36          71          35
Equity in undistributed loss of
 noninsurance subsidiaries                         (18)        (19)        (37)
Timing of recognition of realized
 investment gains and losses                       680        (539)        194
Deferred federal income taxes                      142         503          32
Other, including certain
 restructuring expenses                             (6)       (286)         11
Cumulative effect of change in
 accounting for postretirement
 benefits other than pensions,
 net of tax                                          -        (258)          -
Cumulative effect of change in
 accounting for income taxes                         -         428           -
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income (loss)                                $ 288      $ (658)      $ 318
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Shareholders' equity at end of year
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(in millions)                                     1993        1992        1991
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Statutory capital and surplus
 Life companies                                 $  873      $1,571      $1,932
 Property-casualty companies                     1,483       1,665       1,843
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                            2,356       3,236       3,775
Adjustments to life and health
 reserves and contractholder funds                 309         316         279
Deferred acquisition costs                         827         791         720
Valuation reserves, nonadmitted
 and other asset adjustments                       668         (85)       (245)
Deferred federal income taxes                    1,523       1,371         353
Liability for postretirement benefits
 other than pensions                              (385)       (408)          -
Other liability adjustments, including
 restructuring reserves                           (283)       (243)       (292)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Shareholders' equity                            $5,015      $4,978      $4,590
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dividend availability.  The Company is currently subject to various
regulatory restrictions that limit the maximum amount of dividends
available to shareholders without prior approval of insurance
regulatory authorities.  Under statutory accounting practices, no
statutory surplus is available in 1994 for dividends to shareholders
without prior approval.

 Dividend payments to the Company from its insurance subsidiaries are
subject to similar restrictions and, absent the Merger, would be
limited to $242 million in 1994.


                              - 12 -
<PAGE>



8. Leases

 The Company and its subsidiaries have entered into various operating
and capital lease agreements for office space and data processing and
certain other equipment.  Rental expense under operating leases was
$192 million, $216 million and $208 million in 1993, 1992 and 1991,
respectively.  Future net minimum rental and lease payments are
estimated as follows:

==============================================================
                      Minimum operating        Minimum capital
(in millions)           rental payments         lease payments
--------------------------------------------------------------
Year ending December 31,
 1994                              $138                   $  7
 1995                               116                      7
 1996                                87                      7
 1997                                47                      4
 1998                                27                      4
 Thereafter                          16                     68
--------------------------------------------------------------
                                   $431                   $ 97
==============================================================

 Included in these expenses are the rentals related to the sale of
certain buildings leased back under operating and capital leases with
initial terms ranging from 5 to 25 years.  Deferred gains arising from
these sales are being amortized over the primary lease terms.  At
December 31, 1993 and 1992, the amount remaining to be amortized is
$53 million and $59 million, respectively.

The following is a summary of assets under capital leases:

                                                       
=======================================================
(in millions)                  1993      1992      1991
-------------------------------------------------------
Buildings                       $31       $31       $31
Equipment                        16        18        10
-------------------------------------------------------
                                 47        49        41
Less accumulated depreciation    15        12        13
-------------------------------------------------------
Net                             $32       $37       $28
=======================================================


9. Commitments and Contingencies

Financial instruments with off-balance-sheet risk.  The Company trades
and issues financial instruments with off-balance-sheet risk in the
normal course of its business.  These instruments, which are used to
reduce the Company's overall exposure to market risk and to enhance
the Company's investment opportunities, include financial guarantees,
financial futures, forward contracts, fixed rate loan commitments and
variable rate loan commitments, including revolving lines of credit.

 Financial instruments with off-balance-sheet risk involve, to
varying degrees, elements of credit and market risk in excess of the
amount recognized in the consolidated balance sheet.  The contract or
notional amounts of these instruments reflect the extent of
involvement the Company has in a particular class of financial
instrument.  However, the maximum credit loss or cash flow associated
with these instruments can be less than these amounts.

 The Company also may use other kinds of financial instruments from
time to time that expose the Company to similar kinds of off-balance-
sheet risk.  These instruments include unfunded commitments to
partnerships, transfers of receivables with recourse  and interest
rate swaps.  The off-balance-sheet risks of these financial
instruments were not considered significant at December 31, 1993 and
1992.

                                - 13 -

<PAGE>

 The Company's exposure to credit loss in the event of nonperformance
by the other party to the financial instrument for financial
guarantees and fixed and variable rate loan commitments is represented
by the contractual amount of these instruments.  For financial futures
contracts and forward contracts, the Company's exposure to credit loss
in the event of nonperformance by the counterparty is less than the
contractual or notional amount.

 The Company monitors creditworthiness of counterparties to these
financial instruments by using criteria of acceptable risk that are
consistent with on-balance-sheet financial instruments.  The controls
include credit approvals, limits and other monitoring procedures. 
Many transactions include the use of collateral to minimize credit
risk and lower the effective cost to the borrower.

 A summary of contract or notional amounts is presented below:

=============================================================
(in millions)                                    1993    1992
-------------------------------------------------------------
Financial instruments whose contract
 amount represents credit exposure:
   Financial guarantees                        $3,016  $4,039
   Fixed rate loan commitments                    126     160
   Variable rate loan commitments                  17     278
Financial instruments whose contract
 amount exceeds credit exposure:
   Forward contracts used as hedges               279     722
   Financial futures contracts                     25     418
=============================================================

 Financial guarantees are written conditional commitments issued by
the Company to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third
party.  At December 31, 1993 and 1992, the fair value of financial
guarantee contracts was $1 million and $7 million, respectively, which
is an estimate of current replacement cost.  These obligations are
described more fully in note 10.

 Fixed rate loan commitments are obligations to make investments at
fixed interest rates, including obligations to invest in fixed
maturities and fixed rate mortgage loans.  Variable rate loan
commitments are obligations to make investments at variable interest
rates, including obligations to invest in variable rate mortgage
loans.  At December 31, 1993 and 1992, fixed and variable rate loan
commitments have no meaningful fair value because the terms of the
commitments approximate market rates.

 The Company uses a variety of financial futures contracts to manage
its sensitivity to changes in market interest rates.  These contracts
generally hedge the interest rate risk of other investments. 
Financial futures contracts are traded on recognized exchanges.

 Cash payments are not required to enter into financial futures
contracts.  Outstanding positions are marked to market and settled
daily.  The notional amount of futures contracts represents the extent
of the Company's involvement, but not future cash requirements, as
open positions are typically closed out prior to the delivery date of
the contract.  At December 31, 1993 and 1992, the Company's futures
contracts have no fair value because these contracts are marked to
market and settled in cash.

 The Company uses a variety of forward contracts to manage its
sensitivity to changes in foreign currency exchange rates.  These
contracts generally act as hedges for foreign investments held by U.S.
portfolios or for investments in foreign operations (primarily
Canadian).  Forward contracts are traded over-the-counter, generally
with a financial institution.

 Cash payments are not required to enter into foreign currency forward
contracts.  Outstanding positions are marked to market; however, they
are not settled in cash until maturity.  The market risk attributed to
either a futures contract or a forward contract is balanced by the
market risk attributed to the associated hedged asset to minimize the
Company's overall sensitivity to risk.  At December 31, 1993 and 1992,
the fair value of forward contracts used as hedges was $7 million and
$9 million, respectively, which is based on quoted market prices.




                                - 14 -

<PAGE>

Litigation.  In response to the announcement in September 1993 of the
anticipated merger with Primerica, a number of proposed class
action lawsuits were filed in state court in Connecticut and New
York against the Company, its directors and Primerica.  These
cases are now consolidated in Connecticut, and the consolidated
amended complaint generally seeks damages on behalf of
shareholders of the Company based on the alleged inadequacy of the
merger consideration offered by Primerica under the terms of the
merger.  On January 27, 1994, the defendants, including the Company by its
successor, The Travelers Inc., filed a motion to dismiss the case
based on, among other things, Connecticut law limiting claims by
dissenting shareholders to statutory appraisal rights.

 In December 1993, the Company and National Medical Enterprises,
Inc. (NME) executed an agreement in principal to settle lawsuits
brought by both parties arising out of alleged fraudulent practices
by NME during the years 1988 through 1992.  The Company will
receive the settlement, including interest, in 1994.  Most of the
proceeds will be distributed back to the Company's customers.

 The Company and certain of its subsidiaries were plaintiffs in a
recently settled lawsuit in Federal Court in Connecticut relating
to Separate Account "R", a real estate separate account that is
administered and managed by The Travelers Insurance Company.  The
defendant Account participants filed counterclaims alleging that
the Company breached its fiduciary obligations in the management of
Separate Account "R".  In April 1993, the Company entered into a
class action settlement agreement with all defendants, which
resolved all counterclaims and, as a result, all outstanding issues
with the class of Account participants.  Pursuant to the final
settlement, the Company paid approximately $87 million to all
Account participants.  In 1992, the Company established a $53
million reserve for the estimated net cost of resolving this
lawsuit.  The Company is pursuing a declaratory action in Federal
Court in New York against its primary errors and omissions insurer
in response to a denial of coverage for the Separate Account "R"
settlement.  In January 1994, the Company settled a claim with
its excess insurer.  As of December 31, 1993, the Company had a
receivable of $32 million for its insurance claims which was
reduced by $7 million in 1993.

 In February 1990, the New Jersey Department of Insurance filed an
administrative action, Fortunato v. Aetna Casualty & Surety Co. et
al., seeking restitution from fifteen insurance companies, including
the Company, arising from their acting as servicing carriers for the
New Jersey Automobile Full Insurance Underwriting Association.  In
June 1993, the Company resolved this action and received a Consent
Order from the New Jersey Insurance Department dismissing the action
with prejudice.  Compliance with the terms of the settlement agreement
was not material to the financial statements.
 
 In April 1989, a lawsuit was filed against the Company by the
federal government alleging the Company improperly handled health
benefit claims for individuals who are actively employed and
eligible for Medicare coverage.  In November 1992, the court ruled
on cross motions for summary judgment.  The court found that the
Company had no liability when acting in the capacity of an
administrator of claims.  However, the court also recognized that,
while the government's right of recovery with respect to insured
claims is governed by the substantive terms of our customer's
health benefit plan, the right of recovery is independent of
procedural limitations in the Company's contracts.

 The Securities and Exchange Commission is conducting a nonpublic
inquiry pursuant to an order of investigation with respect to the
Company's accounting, reporting and disclosure treatment of certain
matters in connection with its lending and loss recognition practices
pertaining to real estate investments and related matters going back
to January 1, 1988.  The Company is cooperating fully with the
Commission's staff.

 The Company is in litigation with certain underwriters at Lloyd's of
London in New York state court to enforce reinsurance contracts with
respect to recoveries for certain asbestos claims.  In January 1994,
the court stayed litigation of this matter in favor of arbitration of
the contract issues raised by the Company under the applicable
treaties and an agreement with the Lloyd's market on coverage for
asbestos-related claims.

 Certain of the Company's subsidiaries are involved in litigation
with respect to claims arising with regard to insurance, which is
taken into account in establishing benefit reserves.  On insurance
contracts written many years ago, the Company continues to receive
claims asserting alleged injuries and damages from asbestos and other
hazardous and toxic substances.  In relation to these claims, the
Company carries on a continuing review of its overall position, its
reserving techniques and reinsurance recoverable.  In each of these
areas of exposure, the Company has endeavored to litigate individual
cases and settle claims on favorable terms.  Given the vagaries of

                                - 15 -


<PAGE>

court coverage decisions, plaintiffs' expanded theories of liability,
the risks inherent in major litigation and other uncertainties, it is
not presently possible to quantify the ultimate exposure represented
by these claims.  As a result, the Company expects that future
earnings may be adversely affected by environmental and asbestos
claims, although the amounts cannot be reasonably estimated.  However,
it is not likely these claims will have a material adverse effect on
the Company's financial condition.

 The Company and/or its subsidiaries are defendants or co-defendants
in various litigation matters.  Although there can be no assurances,
as of December 31, 1993, the Company believes, based on information
currently available, that the ultimate resolution of these legal
proceedings (other than environmental and asbestos claims) would not
be likely to have, but may have, a material adverse effect on the
results of operations.

 The amount of related litigation costs for 1993, 1992 and 1991 was
$44 million, $48 million and $51 million, respectively.

10. Guarantees of the Securities of Other Issuers

As part of its regular insurance business in which a wide range of
risks are assumed to cover possible future economic loss by third
parties, the Company underwrites insurance guaranteeing the securities
of certain issuers.  The aggregate net amount of guarantees of 
principal and interest for such securities was approximately $180
million ($2.8 billion gross of reinsurance) and $2.8 billion ($3.6
billion gross of reinsurance) at December 31, 1993 and 1992,
respectively.  Estimated net earned premiums amounted to
$5 million and $7 million in 1993 and 1992, respectively.  Premiums
are earned pro rata over the policy term.  The related unearned
premium reserve amounted to $1 million and $14 million at December 31,
1993 and 1992, respectively.

 The Company's participation in the Municipal Bond Insurance
Association (MBIA) has been reinsured to Municipal Bond Investors
Assurance Corporation, effective August 31, 1993.  This accounts for
the decline in aggregate net amount of guarantees of principal and
interest and the reduction in the unearned premium reserves in 1993.


11. Per Share Data

No earnings per share information is provided for 1993 because the
Company became a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Travelers Inc.
effective December 31, 1993.

 Primary income per common share was computed after provision for the
dividend requirements on preference stocks.  It is based upon the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding including, if
applicable, common stock equivalents.  Fully diluted income per share
was based on the number of shares used in the calculation of primary
income per share plus shares issuable if Series A preference shares,
convertible debentures and preferred shares were converted for the
periods they were outstanding.  In 1992 and 1990, such conversions
were not assumed as the effect was antidilutive.

 The number of shares used in the calculation was:

==============================================================
                               Primary           Fully diluted
--------------------------------------------------------------
1992                       106,149,028             106,149,028
1991                       103,022,370             111,595,983
1990                       101,814,180             101,814,180
1989                       102,587,596             108,336,328
==============================================================




                                - 16 -

<PAGE>




12. Additional Operating Information*
   Results included in the table below reflect 1993 fourth quarter after-tax 
   charges of $111 million for an addition to reserves for foreclosed properties
   held for sale and 1992 fourth quarter after-tax charges of $288 million for
   implementation of SOP 92-3 and $197 million for an addition to mortgage loan 
   valuation reserves.

<TABLE><CAPTION>
                                                                                       Pre-merger, historical accounting basis
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                 Property-   Property-               Managed       Asset
                                                  Casualty    Casualty              Care and  Management    Corporate
                                                Commercial    Personal   Financial  Employee   & Pension    and Other
(in millions)                                        Lines       Lines    Services  Benefits    Services   Operations  Consolidated
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                             <C>          <C>         <C>       <C>        <C>          <C>         <C> 
1993
Revenues
 Premiums                                          $ 2,234     $ 1,361      $  235   $ 2,617      $  137            -       $ 6,584
 Net investment income                                 525         152         677       294         951      $     1         2,600
 Realized investment gains (losses)                    150          46          77        32        (122)          26           209
 Other, including gains and losses on dispositions      (7)         32         113       742          11            -           891
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total                                             2,902       1,591       1,102     3,685         977           27        10,284
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income (loss) before federal income taxes                7         167         173       205        (248)         (72)          232
Net income (loss)                                       44         125         128       148         (98)         (59)          288
Assets                                              16,393       2,745      14,319     5,049      15,764          340        54,610
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1992
Revenues
 Premiums                                          $ 2,295     $ 1,428      $  231   $ 2,620      $  114            -       $ 6,688
 Net investment income                                 546         156         631       328       1,180      $   (42)        2,799
 Realized investment gains (losses)                     78          22         (98)      (18)       (626)           7          (635)
 Other, including gains and losses on dispositions      10          27         120       657          23          (14)          823
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total                                             2,929       1,633         884     3,587         691          (49)        9,675
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income (loss) before federal
 income taxes and cumulative effects
 of changes in accounting principles                   (61)       (289)        (72)      (70)       (761)        (101)       (1,354)
Cumulative effect of change in
 accounting for postretirement benefits
 other than pensions, net of tax                       (88)        (37)        (15)     (106)        (10)          (2)         (258)
Cumulative effect of change in
 accounting for income taxes                            57          11          36       123         191           10           428
Net income (loss)                                      (45)       (201)        (20)      (23)       (311)         (58)         (658)
Assets                                              15,770       2,656      13,021     5,309      19,514        1,759        58,029
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1991
Revenues
 Premiums                                          $ 2,726     $ 1,457      $  249   $ 2,687     $   183            -       $ 7,302
 Net investment income                                 595         162         641       356       1,510      $   (36)        3,228
 Realized investment gains (losses)                      4           9           6        14         (42)           7            (2)
 Other, including gains and losses on dispositions      (3)         31         117       616          23           65           849
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total                                             3,322       1,659       1,013     3,673       1,674           36        11,377
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income (loss) before federal income taxes              242          27          56       143         (35)        (110)          323
Net income (loss)                                      219          35          40       107          (5)         (78)          318
Assets                                              15,118       2,547      11,922     5,057      22,209        1,122        57,975
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<FN>
*  Included above in Corporate and Other Operations are The Massachusetts Company 
   which was sold in 1993, and Dillon, Read Inc., which was sold in 1991 
   (see note 3).
</TABLE>
                                - 17 -

<PAGE>



13. Benefit Plans

Pension plans.  The Company and its subsidiaries maintain defined
benefit pension plans for salaried employees.  The primary plan is
noncontributory and was amended in 1993 to provide benefits based on
the account balances of participating employees at the time of
retirement.  The account balances of employees are credited annually
with an amount based on salary and age, and accrue interest.  Vesting
occurs after five years of service in compliance with the provisions
of the Tax Reform Act of 1986.  The Company's funding policy for
qualified U.S. pension plans is to contribute, at a minimum, the
equivalent of the amount required under the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974 and the Internal Revenue Code.  Actuarially
determined costs are provided for all other plans.

 Components of pension expense are:
                                                        
========================================================
(in millions)                   1993      1992      1991
--------------------------------------------------------
U.S. plans:
 Service costs                   $30       $40       $46
 Interest costs                  122       128       125
 Actual return on assets        (201)      (67)     (167)
 Net amortization and deferral    62       (53)        7
--------------------------------------------------------
Net pension expense              $13       $48       $11
========================================================

As a result of certain organizational restructuring initiatives (see
note 20), special termination benefits of $25 million are included in 
the net amortization and deferral component of 1992 net pension expense.

 Reconciliation of the funded status of the qualified plans follows:
                                                        
=============================================================
(in millions)                        1993      1992      1991
-------------------------------------------------------------
Actuarial present value of vested
 benefit obligations               $1,534    $1,399    $1,127
Actuarial present value of
 accumulated benefit obligations    1,548     1,418     1,153
-------------------------------------------------------------
Plan assets at fair value          $1,719    $1,624    $1,644
Actuarial present value of
 projected benefit obligation       1,620     1,656     1,525
-------------------------------------------------------------
Assets in excess of (less than)
 projected benefit obligation          99       (32)      119
Unamortized transition asset          (27)      (36)      (45)
Unrecognized net actuarial loss       185       268       198
Unrecognized prior service benefit   (101)      (40)      (78)
-------------------------------------------------------------
Prepaid pension expense              $156      $160      $194
=============================================================

 At December 31, 1993, the non-qualified plan had projected benefit
obligations of $60 million, which were $4 million less than the recorded
liability.  At December 31, 1992, the projected benefit obligation was
$6 million less than the recorded liability.  At December 31, 1991,
the projected benefit obligation exceeded the recorded liability by
$35 million.

 The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets was 8.9%, 9.7%
and 10.2% for 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.  In 1993, the
discount rate used in determining the projected benefit obligation was

                                - 18 -





<PAGE>



7.5% and the assumed rate of future annual salary increases varied
between 2% and 9%, based upon employees' ages.  The discount rate was
8.25% and 8.5% in 1992 and 1991, respectively, and the rate of 
increase in future compensation levels used in determining the
projected benefit obligation was between 3% and 10% based on employees
ages for 1992 and 6.5% for 1991.  Changes in assumptions from period
to period can result in adjustments to the accumulated and projected
benefit obligations.  Such changes may also affect the expense
recognized and/or the unrecognized net actuarial gain or loss.  Plan
assets are held primarily in various separate accounts and the general
account of The Travelers Insurance Company and certain investment
trusts.  These accounts invest in stocks, bonds, mortgage loans and
real estate of entities unrelated to the Company.

 The Company also sponsors defined contribution pension plans for
certain agents.  Company contributions are primarily a function of
production.  The expense for these plans was $3 million in 1993 and $2
million in both 1992 and 1991.

Other benefit plans.  In addition to pension benefits, the Company
provides certain health care and life insurance benefits for retired
employees. Substantially all employees may become eligible for these
benefits if they reach retirement age while working for the Company.
Retirees may elect certain prepaid health care benefit plans.  Life
insurance benefits generally are set at a fixed amount.

 In the third quarter of 1992, the Company adopted FAS 106 and
elected to recognize the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation
(i.e., the transition obligation) as a change in accounting principle
retroactive to January 1, 1992.

 Prior to the adoption of FAS 106, the Company accounted for these
postretirement costs on a cash basis.  The cost recognized by the
Company for these and similar benefits provided to active employees
was based upon paid claims, net of employee contributions.  Total
costs of the plans for retirees were $20 million in 1991.

 The Company made contributions to the plans in 1993 and 1992 as
claims were incurred.  These contributions totaled $25 million and $23
million for 1993 and 1992, respectively.  Retirees' contributions to
these plans vary, based upon the retiree's age and election of
coverage.  Generally, increases in the Company's contributions for
health care will be limited to two times the current average cost per
retiree.  In addition, retirees' contributions will vary based upon
their years of service with the Company.

 Components of net periodic postretirement benefit cost are:

    ========================================================
    (in millions)                             1993      1992
    --------------------------------------------------------
    Service costs                              $ 4       $ 7
    Interest costs                              35        33
    Net amortization and deferral               (1)       14
    --------------------------------------------------------
    Net periodic postretirement benefit cost   $38       $54
    ========================================================


 As a result of certain organizational restructuring initiatives (see
note 20), curtailment losses of $14 million in 1992 are included in
the net amortization and deferral component of net periodic
postretirement benefit cost in that year.

 The following table sets forth the plans' funded status reconciled
with amounts recognized in the Company's consolidated balance sheet:

    =====================================================================
    (in millions)                                         1993       1992
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------
    Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for:   
      Retirees                                            $387       $286
      Other fully eligible plan participants                13         60
      Other active plan participants                        53         84
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total accumulated postretirement benefit obligation    453        430
    Plan assets at fair value                                -          -
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------
    Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation
      in excess of plan assets                             453        430
    Unrecognized net loss from experience
      different from that assumed                          (62)        (7)
    Unrecognized prior service benefit                      45          -
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------
    Accrued postretirement benefit cost                   $436       $423
    =====================================================================



                                - 19 -





<PAGE>



 

 The weighted-average discount rate used in determining the
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was 7.5% and 8.0% for
1993 and 1992, respectively, and the assumed rate of future annual
salary increases varied between 2% and 9% for 1993 and 3% and 10% for
1992 based on employees' ages.

 For measurement purposes, an annual rate of increase in the per
capita cost of health care benefits (the health care cost trend rate)
of up to 16.8% was assumed through 1994; the rate is assumed to
decrease gradually to a maximum of 7.0% in 2001, and remain at that
level thereafter.  The health care cost trend rate assumption has a
significant effect on the amounts reported.  To illustrate, increasing
the assumed health care cost trend rates by 1% in each year would
increase the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation as of
December 31, 1993 by $30 million and the aggregate of the service and
interest cost components of net periodic postretirement benefit cost
for 1993 by $3 million.

 The Merger transaction resulted in a change in control of the
Company, as defined in the applicable plans, and provisions of some
employee benefit plans secured existing compensation and benefit
entitlements earned prior to any change in control and provided a
salary and benefit continuation floor for employees whose employment
was affected.

Stock plans.  Stock options, stock appreciation rights (SARs) and
shares of restricted stock have been granted pursuant to plans adopted
by the Board of Directors and approved by shareholders at the 1982 and
1988 annual meetings.  The 1988 plan provided for the award of up to
10,000,000 shares of the Company's common stock in the form of options
to purchase common stock or SARs, and restricted stock.  Commencing in
1988, all grants were made pursuant to the 1988 plan, although the
prior plan continued to govern awards of options and SARs made
pursuant to it.

 All outstanding options and SARs were either exercisable or became
exercisable over various periods beginning one year after the date of
grant and could be exercised until 10 years from the date of grant.

 A holder of an option with an SAR attached has the right to
surrender the SAR for the appreciation in the common stock between the
time of the grant and the surrender.  However, the maximum value of an
SAR was limited to twice the option purchase price.  The exercise of
an SAR canceled the option grant with which the SAR was associated,
and vice versa.

 Shares of restricted stock were granted subject to restrictions on
their transferability.  These restrictions lapsed upon the expiration
of a period of employment or the achievement of stated criteria, or
both.  The restrictions lapsed over a period of between one and ten
years from the date of grant.

 Effective December 30, 1993, all stock options became exercisable or
could be liquidated for a cash amount, all stock appreciation rights
were terminated, all restrictions on time-lapse restricted stock
lapsed and restrictions on 50% of the performance contingent
restricted stock lapsed.  In addition, The Travelers Inc. offered an 
alternative stock option election which option holders could choose in
lieu of exercising or exchanging their options.

 At the time of the Merger, 7,193,486 options to purchase the
Company's common stock were outstanding.  Of this amount, 2,205,204
options were forfeited or liquidated and the remaining 4,988,282
options at a weighted average price of $26.94 were converted to
options to receive 4,011,726 shares of The Travelers Inc. common stock
at a weighted average price of $33.50.  The cost related to options
liquidated is approximately $8 million.  In addition, the remaining
outstanding restricted stock awards of 141,759 shares were converted
into 113,977 restricted shares of The Travelers Inc. common stock.



                                - 20 -





<PAGE>

 Information with respect to grants follows:

================================================================================
                                                             Options outstanding
                                                  ------------------------------
                                 Shares                                  Average
                              available                                   option
                              for grant           Shares                   price
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance, January 1, 1991      2,465,712        2,823,861                  $34.79
 Options:
   Granted                   (1,109,209)       1,109,209                  $17.09
   Exercised                          -          (36,219)                 $13.91
   Forfeited                     64,473         (208,755)
 Restricted stock:
   Granted                     (330,568)               -
   Forfeited                      9,579                -
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance, December 31, 1991    1,099,987         3,688,096                 $29.46
 Options:
   Authorized                 5,000,000                -
   Granted                   (2,056,100)        2,056,100                 $22.38
   Exercised                          -          (190,001)                $14.52
   Forfeited                    142,348          (231,007)
 Restricted stock:
   Granted                     (131,072)                -
   Forfeited                     41,767                 -
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance, December 31, 1992    4,096,930          5,323,188                $27.28
 Options:
   Granted                   (3,144,365)         3,144,365                $27.37
   Exercised                          -           (938,758)               $19.16
   Forfeited                    307,124           (335,309)
 Restricted stock:
   Awarded                     (231,110)                 -
   Forfeited                    161,251                  -
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance, December 31, 1993    1,189,830          7,193,486                $28.30
================================================================================

Options exercisable at December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991 were
7,193,486, 2,782,576 and 1,859,359, respectively.
 
Savings, investment and stock ownership plan.  Under the savings,
investment and stock ownership plan available to substantially all
employees, the Company matches a portion of employee contributions. 
Effective April 1, 1993, the match decreased from 100% to 50% of an
employee's first 5% contribution and a variable match based on the
Company's profitability was added.  The Company's matching obligations
were $22 million in 1993 and $36 million in both 1992 and 1991.  In the
second quarter of 1989, the Company established an Employee Stock
Ownership Plan (ESOP) to serve as the funding vehicle for its matching
obligation under the savings, investment and stock ownership plan
beginning in 1990.  In June 1989, the ESOP purchased 3,755,869 shares
of the Company's $4.53 Series A ESOP Convertible Preference Stock at
$53.25 per share.  The Series A preference stock is convertible into
the Company's common stock at a one-to-one conversion rate.  The
shares may be redeemed at the option of the Company or the holder
under certain circumstances.  Annual dividends of $4.53 are
cumulative.  The Series A preference stock has a minimum liquidation
value of $53.25 plus unpaid and accrued dividends.  The ESOP financed
the purchase of the Series A preference shares with a $200 million
variable interest rate loan from a third party.  The Company has
guaranteed the ESOP's debt obligation, and the unpaid principal
balance is included in the Company's long-term debt with a
corresponding offset to the ESOP Series A preference stock. 
Increasing semi-annual payments that began January 1, 1990 will fully
amortize the debt by July 1, 1997.



                                - 21 -
<PAGE>


 The Series A preference shares are held by the ESOP Trustee and are
allocated to participants by a method that considers the debt service
requirements of the ESOP.  In 1993, 429,361 Series A preference shares
were allocated to participants under this method.  This compares with
394,044 shares in 1992 and 384,738 shares in 1991.  Remaining
unallocated shares are 2,061,214, 2,490,575 and 2,884,619 in 1993,
1992 and 1991, respectively.  To the extent that the shares allocated
by this method are not sufficient to meet the Company's matching
obligation under the savings plan, additional contributions will be
made.  No such contribution was required to meet the 1993 obligation. 
In January 1993, 184,397 additional preference shares were contributed
to the ESOP to meet the 1992 matching obligation.  In December 1991,
320,000 additional preference shares were contributed to the ESOP to
meet the estimated 1991 matching obligation.  Likewise, in January
1991, 146,165 additional preference shares were contributed to the ESOP to
meet the 1990 matching obligation.

 ESOP expense is recognized based upon the value of preference shares
allocated to plan participants, giving consideration to interest
incurred on the debt and credit for dividends received.  The value of
additional Series A preference shares, common stock or cash necessary
to satisfy the matching requirement is included as a component of ESOP
expense.  The amount of ESOP expense recognized by the Company was $25
million in 1993, $26 million in 1992 and $29 million in 1991. 
Dividends of $20 million, $19 million and $17 million in 1993, 1992
and 1991, respectively, as well as contributions of $8 million in 1993
and 1992 and $10 million in 1991, were used by the ESOP to service its
debt.  The ESOP incurred $4 million, $5 million and $9 million of
interest expense in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.

 Effective December 31, 1993, in conjunction with the Merger, all
outstanding Series A preference shares were transferred and converted
to shares of The Travelers Inc. $4.53 ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock,
Series C with substantially similar terms, and The Travelers Inc.
assumed the guarantee of the ESOP's debt obligation.


































                                - 22 -





<PAGE>



14. Federal Income Taxes

                                                         
============================================================
(in millions)                       1993      1992      1991
------------------------------------------------------------
Effective tax rate
Income (loss) before federal
 income taxes                       $232   $(1,354)    $ 323
------------------------------------------------------------
Statutory tax rate                    35%       34%       34%
------------------------------------------------------------
Expected federal income taxes       $ 81   $  (460)    $ 110
Tax effect of:
 Nontaxable investment income        (39)      (38)      (44)
 "Fresh start" adjustments           (16)      (20)      (50)
 Adjustment to benefit and
   other reserves                    (41)       (9)       (1)
 Adjustment to deferred tax asset 
   for enacted change in tax rates
   from 34% to 35%                   (44)        -         -
 Nondeductible merger expenses        10         -         -
 Other                                (7)        1         1
------------------------------------------------------------
Federal income taxes               $ (56)    $(526)    $  16
------------------------------------------------------------
Effective tax rate                   (24)%      39%        5%
------------------------------------------------------------

Composition of federal income taxes
Current:
 United States                     $  81     $ (31)    $  46
 Foreign                               5         8         2
------------------------------------------------------------
   Total                              86       (23)       48
------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred:
 United States                      (142)     (503)      (32)
 Foreign                               -         -         -
------------------------------------------------------------
   Total                            (142)     (503)      (32)
------------------------------------------------------------
Federal income taxes               $ (56)    $(526)    $  16
============================================================











                                - 23 -


<PAGE>


 The net deferred tax assets at December 31, 1993 and 1992 were
comprised of the tax effects of the temporary differences related to
the following assets and liabilities:


======================================================================
(For the year ended December 31,
in millions)                                        1993          1992
----------------------------------------------------------------------
 Deferred tax assets:
 Property-casualty loss reserves                    $600          $570
 Benefit, reinsurance and other reserves             347           239
 Contractholder funds                                185           173
 Investments                                         382           379
 Reserve for postretirement benefits                 153           144
 Restructuring reserves                               60            98
 Other                                               221           196
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                              1,948         1,799
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred tax liabilities:
 Deferred acquisition costs                          240           230
 Accumulated depreciation                             30            44
 Prepaid pension expense                              55            54
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                                325           328
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Net deferred tax asset before valuation allowance  1,623         1,471
Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets         (100)         (100)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Net deferred tax asset after valuation allowance  $1,523        $1,371
======================================================================

 The change in the net deferred tax asset after valuation allowance
includes a $10 million change in the deferred taxes relating to
unrealized investment losses.
 The net tax effects of significant timing differences in the
deferred tax provision for 1991 were as follows:
                                               
===============================================
(in millions)                              1991
-----------------------------------------------
Components of deferred taxes:
 Deferred acquisition costs                $ (6)
 Benefit, reinsurance and other reserves    (32)
 Dividends to contractholders                 7
 Property-casualty loss reserves            (39)
 Prepaid pension expense                      2
 Compensated absences                         9
 Investment valuation and other reserves     17
 Other                                       10
-----------------------------------------------
Deferred federal income taxes              $(32)
===============================================

Consolidated federal income taxes.  The Company files its federal
income tax return on a consolidated basis.  The return includes one
subgroup of companies that are considered life insurers for federal
income tax purposes and one subgroup of companies that are not life
insurers.  Certain limitations and restrictions apply to the
utilization of losses generated by one subgroup against income of the
other subgroup.

 In August 1993, the President signed into law the Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act of 1993 (the Act).  Included in the Act was a
provision that raised the tax rate on corporations from 34% to 35%. 
Under current GAAP accounting rules, the Company was required to
restate its deferred tax asset using the new 35% rate as of the
enactment date of the legislation.  This restatement produced a $40
million increase to the deferred tax asset (and an increase to
earnings) for 1993.

 Upon adoption of FAS 109, a valuation allowance of $100 million was
established to reduce the net deferred tax asset on investment losses
to the amount that, based upon all available evidence, is more likely

                                - 24 -





<PAGE>



than not to be realized.  Reversal of the valuation allowance is
contingent upon the recognition of future capital gains in the
Company's federal income tax return or a change in circumstances which
causes the recognition of the benefits to become more likely than not.
There was no net change in the total valuation allowance during 1993.

 As of December 31, 1993, the Company has no ordinary or capital loss
carryforwards.  The Company has an alternative minimum tax (AMT)
credit carryforward of $51 million as of December 31, 1993 and
$63 million as of December 31, 1992.  This credit will be utilized to
offset the excess of regular tax over AMT in future years and has no
expiration period.

 Extraordinary tax credits of $11 million relating to the realization
of book capital loss carryforwards were recognized in 1991.  In
addition, $316 million of deferred tax assets, which were in excess of
the amount of tax recoverable through carrybacks, were not recognized
at December 31, 1991.  In 1992, this amount was included in the FAS
109 cumulative effect adjustment net of the valuation allowance of
$100 million.

Life insurance companies.  The "policyholders surplus account", which
arose under prior tax law, is generally that portion of the gain from
operations that has not been subjected to tax, plus certain
deductions.  The balance of this account, which, under provisions of
the Tax Reform Act (TRA) of 1984, will not increase after 1983, is
estimated to be $893 million.  This amount has not been subjected to
current income taxes but, under certain conditions that management
considers to be remote, may become subject to income taxes in future
years.  At current rates, the maximum amount of such tax (for which no
provision has been made in the financial statements) is approximately
$313 million.

Nonlife companies.  Commencing in 1987, the TRA of 1986 required
insurance companies to discount property-casualty loss reserves for
tax purposes.  Companies were, however, allowed a "fresh start"
adjustment by recomputation of the opening 1987 loss reserves.  This
adjustment reduced 1991 taxes by $35 million.  There was no 1993 or 1992
effect since the unamortized "fresh start" balance at December 31, 1991
was included in the FAS 109 cumulative effect adjustment.

 Starting in 1990, the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990
required property-casualty insurance companies to accrue estimated
salvage and subrogation recoverables.  Companies were, however,
allowed a "fresh start" adjustment equal to 87% of the discounted
opening 1990 reserve.  For the Company, this amount was spread over a
four-year period beginning in 1990.  "Fresh start" adjustments
relating to salvage and subrogation reduced 1993, 1992 and 1991 taxes
by $16 million, $20 million and $15 million, respectively.


15. Reinsurance

The Company, through its insurance subsidiaries, participates in
reinsurance to reduce overall risks, including exposure to large
losses and catastrophic events, and to effect business-sharing
arrangements.  Its property-casualty insurance subsidiaries also
participate as a servicing carrier for and member of several pools and
associations.  Amounts recoverable from reinsurers of short-duration
contracts are estimated in a manner consistent with the claim
liability associated with the reinsured policy.  The Company remains
primarily liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. 
Reinsurance recoverables are reported after allowances for
uncollectible amounts.  Generally, the cost of reinsurance is
recognized over the period of the reinsurance contract.  Prepaid
reinsurance premiums are included in other assets within the
consolidated balance sheet.

                                - 25 -


<PAGE>

A summary of reinsurance financial data reflected within the
consolidated statement of operations and retained earnings is
presented below (in millions):

========================================================================
(For the year ended
December 31, in millions)         1993           1992           1991
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Written Premiums:
----------------
 Direct                        $ 7,716        $ 7,738        $ 8,178
 Assumed                           425            539            539
 Ceded                          (1,557)        (1,589)        (1,415)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total                    $ 6,584        $ 6,688        $ 7,302
========================================================================
        
Earned Premiums:
---------------
 Direct
   Life business               $ 3,005        $ 2,898        $ 2,978
   Property-casualty business    4,510          4,936          5,256
 Assumed
   Life business                    34            127            137
   Property-casualty business      383            362            402
 Ceded
   Life business                   (87)           (65)           (20)
   Property-casualty business   (1,452)        (1,454)        (1,444)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total                    $ 6,393        $ 6,804        $ 7,309
========================================================================

The following table reflects reinsurance recoveries (in millions):

========================================================================
(For the year ended
December 31, in millions)         1993           1992           1991
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Reinsurance Recoveries:
----------------------
 Life business                   $  85        $    85        $   102
 Property-casualty business      1,240          1,568*         1,191
------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total                     $1,325        $ 1,653        $ 1,293
========================================================================

* Increase in 1992 is due to Hurricane Andrew.


A summary of financial data reflected within the consolidated balance
sheet follows (in millions):

========================================================
(At December 31, in millions)     1993           1992
--------------------------------------------------------

Reinsurance Recoverables:
------------------------
 Life business                  $   65         $   86
 Property-casualty business:
     Pools and associations      2,585          2,582
     Other reinsurers            1,546          1,500
--------------------------------------------------------
                                 4,131          4,082
--------------------------------------------------------
      Total                    $ 4,196        $ 4,168
========================================================

Included within the December 31, 1993 reinsurance recoverable balance
is a current estimate of reinsurance recoverable from Lloyd's of
London of $330 million.  The collectibility of the reinsurance
recoverable from Lloyd's relating to the arbitration (see note 9) is
supported by a market agreement with Lloyd's favorable to the Company.



                                - 26 -

<PAGE>

16. Investments and Investment Gains (Losses)

==========================================================================
(For the year ended
December 31, in millions)                   1993         1992         1991
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Realized
Fixed maturities                            $372        $  99        $ 103
Equity securities                             43           34           43
Mortgage loans                               (35)        (400)        (103)
Real estate                                 (235)        (425)           -
Foreign currency translation                  (7)         (37)         (32)
Other                                         71           94          (13)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Realized investment gains (losses)          $209        $(635)       $  (2)
==========================================================================

Unrealized
Fixed maturities                            $(98)         $167       $ 170
Equity securities                             35             3          59
Other                                         35            16          27
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             (28)          186         256
Related taxes                                (12)           62          65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net unrealized investment
 gains (losses)                              (16)          124         191
Balance beginning of year                    197            73        (118)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance end of year                         $181          $197       $  73
==========================================================================
Equity securities                               
                                                             Unrealized
                                                          ----------------
(At December 31, in millions)               Cost         Gains      Losses
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
1993                                        $252           $96       $  23
1992                                         251            58          20
1991                                         510            80          44
==========================================================================

Fixed maturities

                                       Estimated          Estimated market
(At December 31,      Carrying            market        value greater than
in millions)             value             value            carrying value
                      ----------------------------------------------------
                                                        Amount     Percent
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
1993                   $24,876           $25,823       $   947           4
1992                    22,946            23,771           825           4
1991                    20,987            22,144         1,157           6
==========================================================================

Fixed maturities.  Fixed maturities are valued based upon quoted
market prices or, if quoted prices are not available, discounted
expected cash flows using market rates commensurate with the credit
quality and maturity of the investment.

 Sales from the amortized cost portfolios have been made periodically.
Such sales were $806 million, $1.1 billion and $2.6 billion in 1993,
1992 and 1991, respectively. Gross gains of $59 million, $49 million
and $92 million in 1993, 1992 and 1991 respectively, and gross losses
of $4 million in 1993 and $10 million in 1992 and 1991 were realized
on those sales.

 The carrying values of the trading portfolio fixed maturities are
adjusted to market value as it is likely they will be sold prior to
maturity.  These fixed maturities had market values of $9.0 billion at
December 31, 1993 and $8.9 billion at December 31, 1992.  Net unrealized
gains were $205 million at December 31, 1993 and $322 million at
December 31, 1992.  Sales of trading portfolio fixed maturities
were $9.6 billion, $4.4 billion and $3.8 billion in 1993, 1992


                                - 27 -

<PAGE>

and 1991, respectively.  Gross gains of $317 million, $124 million and
$90 million in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively, and gross losses of
$6 million, $16 million and $13 million in 1993, 1992 and 1991,
respectively, were realized on those sales.

 Effective January 1, 1994, the Company will adopt FAS 115.  For
further discussion see note 1.

<TABLE><CAPTION>
==========================================================================================
Fixed maturities carried at amortized cost by investment type
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                      Gross            Gross
                                   Carrying      unrealized        unrealized       Market
(in millions)                         value           gains            losses        value
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                 <C>          <C>               <C>            <C> 
December 31, 1993
Mortgage-backed securities,
 CMOs and pass through securities   $ 1,107          $   64            $    9      $ 1,162
U.S. Government and government
 agencies and authorities               165              11                 1          175
States, municipalities
 and political subdivisions           2,664              89                 7        2,746
Foreign governments                     439              40                 -          479
Public utilities                      2,776             197                12        2,961
Convertible bonds                         2               -                 -            2
All other corporate bonds             8,810*            578                81        9,307
Redeemable preferred stock               37               2                 -           39
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                               $16,000            $981              $110      $16,871
==========================================================================================

December 31, 1992
Mortgage-backed securities,
 CMOs and pass through securities   $ 1,186            $112                        $ 1,298
U.S. Government and government
 agencies and authorities               504              17              $  2          519
States, municipalities
 and political subdivisions           1,560              43                21        1,582
Foreign governments                     453              28                 1          480
Public utilities                      2,847             165                 6        3,006
Convertible bonds                         1               -                 -            1
All other corporate bonds             7,496*            417                25        7,888
Redeemable preferred stock               52               3                 2           53
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                               $14,099            $785              $ 57      $14,827
==========================================================================================

</TABLE>

* Before valuation reserves of $76 million and $97 million at December
31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.



                                - 28 -

<PAGE>

======================================================================
Trading portfolio securities by investment type
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Carrying value at December 31,        
(in millions)                                      1993           1992
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Mortgage-backed securities -
 principally obligations of
 U.S. Government agencies                        $3,779         $4,005
U.S. Government and government
 agencies and authorities                         3,472          3,168
States, municipalities and political subdivisions    14             18
Foreign governments                                  19             13
Public utilities                                    105             89
Convertible bonds                                   406            458
All other corporate bonds                         1,157          1,193
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Total trading portfolio securities               $8,952         $8,944
======================================================================

 The carrying value and market value of fixed maturities at December
31, 1993, by contractual maturity, are shown below.  Fixed maturities
subject to early or unscheduled prepayments have been included based
upon their contractual maturity dates.  Expected maturities will
differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the
right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment
penalties.

                                                
======================================================
Maturity                      Carrying          Market
(in millions)                    value*          value
------------------------------------------------------
One year or less                $1,090          $1,118
Over 1 year through 5 years      6,769           7,020
Over 5 years through 10 years    7,488           7,883
Over 10 years                    4,719           4,861
------------------------------------------------------
                                20,066          20,882
Mortgage-backed securities       4,886           4,941
------------------------------------------------------
                               $24,952         $25,823
======================================================
* Before valuation reserves of $76 million at December 31, 1993.

Concentrations.  At December 31, 1993, the Company had no
concentration of investments in a single investee exceeding 10% of
consolidated shareholders' equity.

 Included in fixed maturities is a concentration in below investment
grade assets totaling $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion at December 31,
1993 and 1992, respectively.  The Company defines its below investment
grade assets as those securities rated "Ba1" or below by external rating
agencies, or the equivalent by internal analysts when a public rating
does not exist.  Such assets include publicly traded below investment
grade bonds, highly leveraged transactions and certain other privately
issued bonds that are classified as below investment grade loans.  The
Company also has concentrations of investments in the following industries
prior to consideration of investment valuation reserves:

===============================================
(in millions)                     1993      1992
------------------------------------------------
Electric utilities              $1,715    $1,366
Banking*                         1,519     1,681
Finance                          1,471     1,683
================================================
* Includes $509 million and $900 million at December 31, 1993 and
1992, respectively, of primarily short-term investments and cash
equivalents issued by foreign banks.

                                - 29 -

<PAGE>

 Below investment grade assets included in the totals above were as
follows:
                                                
====================================================
(in millions)                     1993          1992
----------------------------------------------------
Electric utilities               $  81         $  33
Finance                             61           121
Banking                             21            37
====================================================

 At December 31, 1993 and 1992, significant concentrations of
mortgage loans were for properties located in highly populated areas
in the states listed below.  The amounts shown are prior to
consideration of investment valuation reserves:
                                                
====================================================
(in millions)                     1993          1992
----------------------------------------------------
California                      $1,307        $1,460
New York                           951         1,326
Texas                              647         1,010
Illinois                           620           694
Florida                            614           962
====================================================

 Other mortgage loan investments are fairly evenly dispersed
throughout the United States, with no holdings in any other state
exceeding $400 million and $600 million at December 31, 1993 and 1992,
respectively.

 Mortgage loans by property type at December 31, 1993 and 1992 are
shown below, prior to consideration of investment valuation reserves:

====================================================
(in millions)                     1993          1992
----------------------------------------------------
Office                          $3,571        $4,389
Apartment                        1,769         2,690
Retail                             974         1,236
Hotel                              566           540
Industrial                         316           423
Other                              141           261
----------------------------------------------------
Total commercial                 7,337         9,539
Agricultural                       650           805
Residential                          1           610
----------------------------------------------------
Total                           $7,988       $10,954
====================================================

 Real estate assets at December 31, 1993 and 1992 included office
properties with carrying values of $1,270 million and $1,689 million, 
respectively.

 The Company monitors creditworthiness of counterparties to all
financial instruments by using controls that include credit approvals,
limits and other monitoring procedures.  Collateral for fixed
maturities often includes pledges of assets, including stock and other
assets, guarantees and letters of credit.  The Company's underwriting
standards with respect to new mortgage loans generally require loan to
value ratios of 75% or less at the time of mortgage origination.



                                - 30 -

<PAGE>

Investment valuation reserves.  At December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991,
total investment valuation reserves, which are deducted from the
applicable investment carrying values in the consolidated balance
sheet, were as follows:
                                                   
===================================================

(in millions)              1993      1992      1991
---------------------------------------------------
Beginning of year        $1,497    $  925    $1,046
Increase                    208       883       172
Impairments, net of
 gains/recoveries          (628)     (311)     (293)
---------------------------------------------------
End of year              $1,077    $1,497    $  925
===================================================

 At December 31, 1993, investment valuation reserves were comprised
of $498 million for mortgage loans, $495 million for real estate and
$84 million for securities.  Increases in the investment valuation
reserves are reflected as realized investment losses.

 The Company continually monitors its investment portfolios,
assessing status and creditworthiness of borrowers as well as other
variables.  The valuation reserves reflect management's judgment of
the probable losses inherent in the portfolios.  This judgment is
based on a review of factors that include individual loan and
historical loss experience and the specific industry and economic
conditions.  Management believes the reserves are adequate based on
the current environment.

Nonincome producing.  Investments included in the consolidated balance
sheets that were nonincome producing were as follows:

================================================
(in millions)                     1993      1992
------------------------------------------------
Mortgage loans                   $ 451     $ 514
Real estate                        337       699
Fixed maturities                    36        16
------------------------------------------------
Total                            $ 824    $1,229
================================================

Restructured.  The Company has restructured investments totaling
approximately $1.2 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 1993 and
1992, respectively.  The new terms typically defer a portion of
contract interest payments to varying future periods.  The accrual of
interest is suspended on all restructured loans, and interest income
is reported only as payment is received.  Gross interest income on
restructured mortgage loans that would have been recorded in
accordance with the original terms of such loans amounted to $128
million in 1993 and $166 million in 1992.  Interest on these loans,
included in net investment income, aggregated $56 million and $72 
million in 1993 and 1992, respectively.





                                - 31 -

<PAGE>


17. Net Investment Income
                                                      
==========================================================
(For the year ended December 31,
 in millions)                     1993      1992      1991
----------------------------------------------------------
Gross investment income
Fixed maturities
 Bonds                          $1,969    $1,984     $2,344
 Redeemable preferred stocks         5         4          6
Equity securities
 Common stocks                       2         8          -
 Nonredeemable preferred stocks      8         8          7
Mortgage loans                     753       983      1,238
Real estate                        415       399        266
Policy loans                       106       109         96
Other                                1         6         72
-----------------------------------------------------------
                                 3,259     3,501      4,029
-----------------------------------------------------------
Investment expenses
General investment                 544       553        443
Interest, discount and expense
 on long-term debt                  81        90         72
Other interest                      34        59        286
-----------------------------------------------------------
                                   659       702        801
-----------------------------------------------------------
Net investment income           $2,600    $2,799     $3,228
===========================================================

The amounts shown in the above table are net of increases in the
investment income valuation reserves, which reflect estimates of
amounts considered doubtful of realization.  There were no such
increases in 1993, 1992 and 1991.  At December 31, 1993 and 1992, the
reserve, which is deducted from investment income accrued in the
consolidated balance sheet, amounted to $44 million and $58 million,
respectively.

 At December 31, 1993 and 1992, the investment income valuation
reserves of a noninsurance subsidiary amounted to $17 million and $27
million, respectively.


18. Fair Value Of Certain Financial Instruments

The Company uses various financial instruments in the normal course of
its business.  Fair value information for financial instruments not
presented elsewhere in these financial statements is discussed below. 
Fair values of financial instruments which are considered insurance
contracts are not required to be disclosed and are not included in the
amounts discussed.

  The estimated fair value of the Company's mortgage loan portfolio at
December 31, 1993 and 1992 is $7.2 billion and $9.7 billion, respectively.  
Mortgage loans are grouped into homogeneous categories based on the Company's 
internal rating system.  Performing loans generally are valued using either
discounted cash flow analysis, reflecting market-based interest rates
commensurate with the underlying risk, or, if foreclosure is deemed 
possible, the lower of carrying value or underlying collateral value. 
In arriving at estimated fair value, the Company used interest rates
reflecting the higher returns required in the current real estate
financing market.  As the marketplace changes, these rates will be
adjusted accordingly.  Underperforming loans are valued at the lower
of carrying value or underlying collateral value.

  The carrying value of $890 million and $537 million of financial
instruments classified as other assets approximates their fair value
at December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.  The carrying values of
$2.5 billion and $2.7 billion of financial instruments classified as
other liabilities also approximate their fair values at December 31,
1993 and 1992, respectively.  Fair value is determined using various
methods including discounted cash flows and carrying value, as
appropriate for the various financial instruments.

                                - 32 -
<PAGE>

  At December 31, 1993, contractholder funds with defined maturities
have a carrying value of $4.8 billion and a fair value of $5.0
billion, compared with a carrying value of $6.0 billion and fair value
of $6.2 billion at December 31, 1992.  The fair value of these
contracts is determined by discounting expected cash flows at an
interest rate commensurate with the Company's credit risk and the
expected timing of cash flows.  Contractholder funds without defined
maturities have a carrying value of $12.9 billion and a fair value of
$12.7 billion at December 31, 1993, compared to a carrying value of
$10.7 billion and a fair value of $10.4 billion at December 31, 1992.  
These contracts generally are valued at surrender value.

  The assets of separate accounts providing a guaranteed return have a
carrying value and fair value of $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, 
at December 31, 1993, compared to a carrying value and fair value of $711 
million and $767 million, respectively, at December 31, 1992.  The liabilities 
of separate accounts providing a guaranteed return have a carrying value
and fair value of $1.1 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, at
December 31, 1993, compared to a carrying value and fair value of $632
million and $735 million, respectively, at December 31, 1992.

  The carrying values of short-term securities, investment income
accrued and securities transactions in the course of settlement
approximate their fair value.


19. Asbestos, Environmental Liabilities and Litigation Reserves

In the third quarter of 1993, the Company added $325 million to its
reserves for asbestos and environmental liabilities, as well as for
blood-related claims for policies issued in the early 1980s.  This
addition to reserves resulted in an after-tax charge of $211 million. 
Several recent developments contributed to the decision to add to
reserves.  The insurance industry is witnessing a growth in claims
brought by outside workers who allege exposure to asbestos while
working on site at various companies.  There has been an increase in
the incidence of this type of claim during 1993.  The Company also has
experienced a growth in environmental claims primarily from smaller
companies with lower coverage limits and has been named as a defendant
in coverage cases brought by other insurers against their
policyholders and the policyholders' other carriers.

  The insurance industry has been, and continues to be, involved in
extensive litigation involving policy coverage and liability issues as
they relate to environmental claims, as a result of various state and 
federal regulatory efforts aimed at environmental remediation.

  In addition to the regulatory pressures, certain court decisions
have expanded insurance coverage beyond the original intent of the
insurer and insured, frequently involving policies that were issued
prior to the mid-1970s.  The results of court decisions affecting the
industry's coverage positions continue to be inconsistent. 
Accordingly, the ultimate responsibility and liability for
environmental remediation costs remain uncertain.


                                - 33 -

<PAGE>

  The following table displays activity for environmental losses and
loss expenses and reserves for the three years ended December 31,
1993.  Approximately 12% of the net environmental loss reserve (i.e.
approximately $40 million) at December 31, 1993 is case reserve for
resolved claims.  The Company does not post case reserves for
environmental claims in which there is a coverage dispute.  The
remainder of the reserve is for claims in which coverage is in dispute
and unreported environmental losses.

Environmental Losses
----------------------------------------------------------
(in millions)                     1993      1992      1991
----------------------------------------------------------
Beginning reserves:
 Direct                           $194     $ 170     $ 148
 Ceded                               -         -         -
----------------------------------------------------------
 Net                               194       170       148
Incurred losses and loss expenses:
 Direct                            211        70        75
 Ceded                            (21)       (3)       (2)
Losses paid:
 Direct                             61        46        53
 Ceded                            (10)       (3)       (2)
----------------------------------------------------------
Ending reserves:
 Direct                            344       194       170
 Ceded                            (11)         -         -
----------------------------------------------------------
 Net                             $ 333     $ 194     $ 170
==========================================================

  In the area of asbestos claims, the industry has suffered from
judicial interpretations that have attempted to maximize insurance
availability from both a coverage and liability standpoint far beyond
the intentions of the contracting parties.  These policies generally
were issued prior to the 1980s.  As a result of recent developments in
asbestos litigation, various classes of asbestos defendants, e.g.
major product manufacturers, peripheral and regional product 
defendants as well as premises owners, are tendering asbestos-related
claims to the industry.  Since each insured presents different
liability and coverage issues, the Company evaluates those issues on
an insured-by-insured basis.  The following table displays asbestos
losses and loss expenses and reserves for the three years ended
December 31, 1993.  Approximately 80% of the net asbestos reserves at
December 31, 1993 represented incurred but not reported losses.

Asbestos Losses
-----------------------------------------------------------
(in millions)                     1993       1992      1991
-----------------------------------------------------------
Beginning reserves:
 Direct                           $425      $ 395     $ 348
 Ceded                            (247)      (220)     (167)
-----------------------------------------------------------
 Net                               178        175       181
Incurred losses and loss expenses:
 Direct                            447        111       118
 Ceded                            (218)       (50)      (69)
Losses paid:
 Direct                             98         81        71
 Ceded                             (14)       (23)      (16)
-----------------------------------------------------------
Ending reserves:
 Direct                            774        425       395
 Ceded                            (451)      (247)     (220)
-----------------------------------------------------------
 Net                             $ 323      $ 178     $ 175
===========================================================


                                - 34 -

<PAGE>

  For both environmental and asbestos-related claims, the Company
carries on a continuing review of its overall position, its reserving
techniques and reinsurance recoverable.  In each of these areas of
exposure, the Company has endeavored to litigate individual cases and
settle claims on favorable terms.  Given the vagaries of court
coverage decisions, plaintiffs' expanded theories of liability, the
risks inherent in major litigation and other uncertainties, it is not
presently possible to quantify the ultimate exposure represented by
these claims.  As a result, the Company expects that future earnings
may be adversely affected by environmental and asbestos claims,
although the amounts cannot be reasonably estimated.  However, it is
not likely these claims will have a material adverse effect on the
Company's financial condition.


20. Restructuring Costs

During 1992, the Company announced a series of organizational
restructuring initiatives associated with its plan to streamline its
business and corporate operations.  These initiatives resulted in a
pretax charge of $308 million, consisting of $197 million for severance, 
benefits, accrued vacation and outplacement costs related to employees 
who will be terminated, $13 million for relocation costs due to consolidation
efforts, $48 million for lease costs, $14 million for curtailment losses
charged to postretirement benefit plans, $15 million for writeoff of 
goodwill related to identified divestitures and $21 million of miscellaneous 
other costs.


 21. Reconciliation of Net Income  (Loss) to Net
     Cash Used in Operating Activities

In the first quarter of 1992, the Company changed its presentation of
cash flows from operating activities from the indirect method to the
direct method.  The following table reconciles net income (loss) to
net cash used in operating activities:

=======================================================================
(For the year ended December 31,
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 in millions)                                1993       1992       1991
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income (loss)                            $288      $(658)    $  318
 Reconciling adjustments
   Trading account investments,
     (purchases) sales, net                  (998)      (938)    (1,973)
   Realized gains                            (127)      (159)       (93)
   Investment income accrued                    9         30         67
   Premium balances receivable                 84          9         (9)
   Deferred acquisition costs                 (36)       (71)       (14)
   Deferred federal income taxes             (142)      (503)       (32)
   Cumulative effects of changes
     in accounting principles                   -       (170)         -
   Insurance reserves and
     accrued expenses                         (36)       529        266
   Restructuring reserve                     (122)       229        (28)
   Other, including investment
     valuation reserves                       152        975        184
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Net cash used in operating activities       $(928)     $(727)   $(1,314)
=======================================================================


                                - 35 -

<PAGE>

22. Noncash Investing and Financing Activities

Significant noncash investing and financing activities include: a)
acquisition of real estate through foreclosures of mortgage loans
amounting to $600 million, $809 million and $861 million in 1993, 1992
and 1991, respectively; b) the 1993 transfer of $362 million of
mortgage loans and bonds from the Company's general account to two
separate accounts; c) acceptance of purchase money mortgages for sales
of real estate aggregating $192 million, $72 million and $33 million
in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively;  d) increases in investment
valuation reserves in 1993, 1992 and 1991 for securities, mortgage
loans and real estate (see note 16); e) the issuance of additional 
Series A preference stock in 1993 and 1991 (see note 13); f) the 
issuance of stock under the Accrued Vacation Buy-Back Plan (see note 
6); g) the 1992 acquisition of a 50% interest in Commercial Insurance 
Resources, Inc. and the acquisition of Transport Life Insurance Company's 
preferred provider and third party administrator organizations through 
the issuance of common stock (see note 3); and h) the 1991 transfer of 
$560 million of assets and liabilities supporting certain annuity businesses 
into a separate account.


23. Subsequent Event - Acquisition by The Travelers Inc.

In December 1992, The Travelers Inc. (formerly Primerica Corporation)
exchanged $550 million in cash, 50 percent of the equity of Commercial 
Insurance Resources, Inc. (the parent of Gulf Insurance Company), and 
100 percent of the preferred provider organization and third party administrator
networks of Transport Life Insurance Company (a wholly owned subsidiary of
Primerica) for 38,026,314 shares of the Company's common stock issued
at $19 per share.  These transactions resulted in an increase in the
shareholders' equity of the Company of $723 million and the ownership
by The Travelers Inc. of approximately 27% of the Company's common
stock.

 Effective December 31, 1993, The Travelers Inc. acquired the
approximately 73% of the Company's common stock which it did not
already own, through the exchange of .80423 shares of The Travelers
Inc. common stock for each share of the Company's common stock.  On
December 31, 1993, The Travelers Corporation merged into The Travelers
Inc.  All subsidiaries of the former Travelers Corporation were
contributed to The Travelers Insurance Group Inc., a second tier
subsidiary of The Travelers Inc.  In conjunction with the merger, The
Travelers Inc. contributed Primerica Insurance Holdings, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and made a cash capital contribution of $200 million to
the Company, and assumed the public debt obligations of the Company.




                                - 36 -


<PAGE>


<TABLE> <CAPTION>
THE TRAVELERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES                                                      
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SELECTED CONSOLIDATED QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)        Pre-merger, historical accounting basis 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           First          Second           Third          Fourth
1993 (in millions)                       Quarter         Quarter         Quarter         Quarter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                       <C>             <C>             <C>            <C>
Premiums                                  $1,783          $1,652          $1,547          $1,602
Net investment income                        659             653             644             644
Realized investment gains (losses)           185             (1)              63             (38)
Other revenues, including gains and losses
  on dispositions                            223             223             223             222
Federal income taxes                          67              13           (124)            (12)
Net income (loss)                            195              93            (36)              36
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Per common share (in dollars)
Primary
  Net income (loss)                       $ 1.25          $  .55          $(.33)             N/A
Assuming full dilution
  Net income (loss)                         1.22             .54           (.33)             N/A
Dividends                                    .40             .40            .40           $  .40
Common stock data
Price ranges
  High                                    30 3/4              33         38 7/8           38 3/8
  Low                                     23 3/4          26 1/8         29 3/4           30 1/2
  Close                                   27 1/2              32         37 5/8              N/A - (1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<FN>
(1) On December 31, 1993, all of the Company's common stock was acquired by 
The Travelers Inc. and, therefore, is no longer traded.
</TABLE>

<TABLE> <CAPTION>
                                           First          Second           Third          Fourth
1992 (in millions)                       Quarter         Quarter         Quarter         Quarter
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                       <C>            <C>             <C>             <C>
Premiums                                  $1,875          $1,601          $1,668          $1,545
Net investment income                        719             713             696             671
Realized investment gains (losses)           (2)              12              57            (701)
Other revenues, including gains and losses
  on dispositions                            217             230             210             166
Federal income taxes                           6               8            (206)           (334)
Income (loss) before cumulative effects
  of changes in accounting principles         54              66            (358)           (589)
Cumulative effect of change in
  accounting for postretirement benefits
  other than pensions, net of tax           (258)              -               -                -
Cumulative effect of change in
  accounting for income taxes                428               -               -               -
Net income (loss)                            224              66            (358)           (589)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Per common share (in dollars)
Primary
Income (loss) before cumulative effects
  of changes in accounting principles    $   .49         $   .59         $ (3.54)      $   (5.38)
Cumulative effect of change in
  accounting for postretirement benefits
  other than pensions, net of tax          (2.48)              -               -               -
Cumulative effect of change in
  accounting for income taxes               4.11               -               -               -
Net income (loss)                           2.12             .59           (3.54)          (5.38)
Assuming full dilution
Income (loss) before cumulative effects
  of changes in accounting principles        .49             .58           (3.54)          (5.38)
Cumulative effect of change in
  accounting for postretirement benefits
  other than pensions, net of tax          (2.37)              -               -               -
Cumulative effect of change in
  accounting for income taxes               3.93               -               -               -
Net income (loss)                           2.05             .58           (3.54)          (5.38)
Dividends                                    .40             .40             .40             .40
Common stock data
Price ranges
  High                                    23 3/4          21 1/2          23 1/8          27 5/8
  Low                                     19 1/2          19 1/2          17 1/8          21 1/2
  Close                                   20 1/4          20 5/8          22 1/2          27 1/4
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Shareholders at year end                                                                  67,290
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                                - 37 -

<PAGE>



<TABLE> <CAPTION>
THE TRAVELERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES                                                              
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA                                      Pre-merger, historical accounting basis
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(in millions)                                1993            1992            1991            1990            1989
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                       <C>             <C>              <C>            <C>             <C>
Premiums                                   $6,584          $6,688          $7,302          $7,435          $7,793
Net investment income                       2,600           2,799           3,228           3,494           3,567
Realized investment gains (losses)            209            (635)             (2)           (616)            134
Other revenues, including gains and
  losses on dispositions                      891             823             849           1,001           1,029
Federal income taxes                          (56)           (526)             16              26              84
Income (loss) before extraordinary
  credit and cumulative effects of
  changes in accounting principles            288            (828)            307            (178)            424
Extraordinary credit                            -               -              11               -              31
Cumulative effect of change in
  accounting for postretirement
  benefits other than pensions, net of tax      -            (258)              -               -               -
Cumulative effect of change in
  accounting for income taxes                   -             428               -               -               -
Net income (loss)                             288            (658)            318            (178)             455
Assets                                     54,610          58,029          57,975          61,826           62,071
Long-term debt                                752           1,124             945             934            1,055
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Per common share (in dollars)
Primary
Income (loss) before extraordinary
  credit and cumulative effects of
  changes in accounting principles            N/A        $  (8.11)        $  2.87          $ (1.85)         $ 4.07
Extraordinary credit                          N/A               -             .10                -             .30
Cumulative effect of change in
  accounting for postretirement
  benefits other than pensions, net of tax    N/A           (2.43)              -                -               -
Cumulative effect of change in
  accounting for income taxes                 N/A            4.03               -                -               -
Net income (loss)                             N/A           (6.51)           2.97            (1.85)           4.37
Assuming full dilution
Income (loss) before extraordinary
  credit and cumulative effects of
  changes in accounting principles            N/A           (8.11)           2.80            (1.85)           3.99
Extraordinary credit                          N/A               -             .09                -             .29
Cumulative effect of change in
  accounting for postretirement
  benefits other than pensions, net of tax    N/A           (2.43)              -                -               -
Cumulative effect of change in
  accounting for income taxes                 N/A            4.03               -                -               -
Net income (loss)                             N/A           (6.51)           2.89            (1.85)           4.28
Dividends                                    1.60            1.60            1.60             2.20            2.40
Shareholders' equity at year end              N/A           31.96           44.06            41.44           47.09
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


                                - 38 -



<PAGE>

<TABLE> <CAPTION>
THE TRAVELERS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES                                         
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SELECTED LINE OF BUSINESS FINANCIAL DATA                                  Pre-merger, historical accounting basis
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(in millions)                                1993            1992            1991            1990            1989
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                       <C>             <C>             <C>             <C>             <C>
Life companies
Premiums                                  $ 2,947         $ 2,833         $ 2,976         $ 3,038         $ 2,976
Net investment income                       1,894           2,107           2,464           2,654           2,714
Realized investment gains (losses)            (19)           (746)            (23)           (588)             89
Other revenues, including gains
  and losses on dispositions                  675             565             532             510             445
Income (loss) before extraordinary
  credit and cumulative effects of
  changes in accounting principles            152            (574)            105            (327)            246
Extraordinary credit                            -               -              11               -              31
Cumulative effect of change in
  accounting for postretirement
  benefits other than pensions, net of tax      -            (120)              -               -               -
Cumulative effect of change in
  accounting for income taxes                   -             345               -               -               -
Net income (loss)                             152            (349)            116            (327)            277
Assets                                     33,986          35,838          36,756          36,639          36,429
Annual premiums on new individual
  life and annuity business                   232             227             230             226             239
Face amount of life insurance sales        23,442          26,828          27,326          42,008          14,259
Face amount of life insurance in force    184,257         196,093         218,128         204,904         182,037
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Property-casualty companies
Premiums                                   $3,637         $3,855           $4,326          $4,397          $4,817
Net investment income                         682            673              724             731             705
Realized investment gains (losses)            223            112               17             (30)             42
Other revenues, including gains
  and losses on dispositions                  (51)            32                -             157              66
Income (loss) before cumulative
  effects of changes in
  accounting principles                        97           (231)             207             147             123
Cumulative effect of change in
  accounting for postretirement
  benefits other than pensions, net of tax      -           (123)               -               -               -
Cumulative effect of change in
  accounting for income taxes                   -             82                -               -               -
Net income (loss)                              97           (272)             207             147             123
Assets                                     21,032         20,650           19,759          20,328          18,979
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Noninsurance subsidiaries
Net income (loss)                          $   39          $ (37)          $   (5)          $   2          $   55
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>



                                - 39 -


<PAGE>


                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


To the Board of Directors,
  The Travelers Corporation:

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of The Travelers Corporation and
Subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 1993 and 1992, and the related
consolidated statements of operations and retained earnings and cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1993 (the
"Preacquisition Consolidated Financial Statements").  These Preacquisition
Consolidated Financial Statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these Preacquisition
Consolidated Financial Statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the Preacquisition Consolidated Financial
Statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
Preacquisition Consolidated Financial Statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the Preacquisition
Consolidated Financial Statements.  We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

As more fully described in Notes 1 and 23, as of the close of business on
December 31, 1993, the Company was acquired in a purchase business combination
by The Travelers Inc. (formerly Primerica Corporation).  The accompanying
Preacquisition Consolidated Financial Statements, which include only those
accounts of the Company immediately prior to it being acquired, were prepared
for the purpose of complying with the requirements of the Staff of the
Securities and Exchange Commission for inclusion in the Form 10-K of The
Travelers Inc.  These Preacquisition Consolidated Financial Statements are not
intended to be a complete presentation of the Company's financial statements
after its acquisition.

In our opinion, the Preacquisition Consolidated Financial Statements referred to
above present fairly, in all material respects, the preacquisition consolidated
financial position of The Travelers Corporation and Subsidiaries as of
December 31, 1993 and 1992, and the consolidated results of their operations
and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 1993, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

As discussed in Notes 2, 13, 14 and 15 to the Preacquisition Consolidated
Financial Statements, the Company changed its method of accounting and reporting
for reinsurance in 1993 and its method of accounting for postretirement benefits
other than pensions, accounting for income taxes and accounting for foreclosed
assets in 1992.



/s/ Coopers & Lybrand

Coopers & Lybrand
Hartford, Connecticut
January 24, 1994


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.02
<SEQUENCE>16
<TEXT>


                                                EXHIBIT NO. 99.02

                                                COMPANY'S FORM 8-K
                                                September 23, 1993

                                                Pages 2 & 3



   Item 5.   Other Events.

        On September 22,  1993, Primerica and  TC issued a  joint
   press release announcing that they were engaged in discussions
   concerning  a  possible   business  merger.    On   that  day,
   complaints  with respect to seven purported class actions were
   filed  in  the  Connecticut Superior  Court  for  the Judicial
   District  of  Hartford  at Hartford/  New  Britain,  generally
   naming TC, Primerica  and the  individual directors  of TC  as
   defendants.  On September 23, 1993, complaints with respect to
   six purported class actions were filed with that court and two
   actions were brought in the Connecticut Superior Court for the
   Judicial District of New Haven  at New Haven, and on September
   24, 1993, four such complaints were filed, two in the Superior
   Court for  the Judicial  District of Hartford  and two  in the
   Superior  Court  for  the  Judicial  District  of  New  Haven.
   Primerica was  named as a  defendant in all  but two of  these
   nineteen actions.  It  is possible that additional  actions of
   this nature may be filed.

        Each  of the  plaintiffs in  these  cases alleges,  among
   other things, that (i) such plaintiff is a holder of TC stock;
   (ii) the defendants have by  their wrongful acts deprived  the
   plaintiffs of  the opportunity to maximize the  value of their
   TC  Common Stock;  (iii) the  individual  defendants have,  as
   directors  of  TC,  breached their  fiduciary  duties  of good
   faith,  fair  dealing,  due  care  and  candor to  the  public
   stockholders  of TC;  and  (iv)  that the  exchange  ratio  of
   Primerica Common Stock for TC Common Stock contemplated by the
   Merger is grossly inadequate and unfair.

        The plaintiffs  request, in  each case, certification  of
   the action as  a class action and  of the plaintiffs as  class
   representatives, and seek relief  in various forms, including:
   declaratory  judgment that the defendants  have breached their
   fiduciary duties to  the plaintiffs and  other members of  the
   class of TC's shareholders; an order that the  defendants take
   appropriate  measures to assure  an open and  vigorous auction
   for  TC;   to  maximize  shareholder  value;  preliminary  and
   permanent injunctive relief against the defendants' proceeding
   with the  merger,  or alternatively  if  the merger  shall  be
   consummated, its rescission;  compensatory damages, costs  and
   counsel fees for the  plaintiffs; and/or such other relief  as
   the court may deem just and equitable.

















<PAGE>


                                                COMPANY'S FORM 10-Q
                                                September 30, 1993 

                                                Page 26

   Item 1.  Legal Proceedings.

        For   information  concerning   purported  class   action
   lawsuits  arising from the announcement of the proposed merger
   between the Company  and Travelers, reference  is made to  the
   description that  appears in Item  5 of the  Company's Current
   Report on Form 8-K dated September 23, 1993.  Since the filing
   of that  report, one  additional purported  class action  suit
   arising from  the announcement of the proposed merger has been
   brought in the New York State Supreme Court.




























<PAGE>



                                                COMPANY'S FORM 8-K
                                                March 1, 1994

                                                Page 2

   Item 5.  OTHER EVENTS.

        As  previously disclosed by  the Company, in  response to
   the  announcement in September 1993 of  the merger between the
   Company  and old Travelers, a number of purported class action
   lawsuits were filed in state court in Connecticut and New York
   against  old  Travelers,  its directors  and  the  Company and
   certain  of its directors.   For information  concerning these
   cases, see the description that appears in the last  paragraph
   on page  2  and the  first two  paragraphs  on page  3 of  the
   Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 23, 1993,
   and the third paragraph on  page 26 of the Company's Quarterly
   Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 23,
   1993,  and the  third paragraph  on page  26 of  the Company's
   Quarterly Report  on Form  10-Q for  the fiscal quarter  ended
   September  30, 1993,  which descriptions  are  incorporated by
   reference herein.  A copy  of the pertinent paragraphs of such
   filings is included as Exhibit 99.01 to  this Form 8-K.  These
   cases are now consolidated  in Connecticut in a case  entitled
   Robert Brandt,  IRA, et al.  v. The Travelers  Corporation, et
   al.    The  consolidated  amended  complaint  generally  seeks
   damages on  behalf of shareholders  of old Travelers  based on
   the  alleged inadequacy of the merger consideration offered by
   the  Company under  the terms  of  the merger  agreement.   In
   January 1994,  the defendants  filed a  motion to  dismiss the
   case  based on, among  other things, Connecticut  law limiting
   claims  by  dissenting  shareholders  to  statutory  appraisal
   rights.









</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.03
<SEQUENCE>17
<TEXT>


                                                EXHIBIT NO. 99.03

                                                COMPANY'S FORM 10-K
                                                December 31, 1989


                                                Page 30

   Item 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

   Shareholder Litigation

        On August 29, 1988, the Company entered into an Agreement
   and Plan of  Merger among the Company,  Primerica Holdings and
   old Primerica, providing for the merger of  old Primerica into
   Primerica Holdings.

        In  late 1988, fifteen purported class actions were filed
   in various  jurisdictions, challenging certain aspects  of the
   merger.  The plaintiffs in the various cases  were purportedly
   shareholders of  old  Primerica prior  to  the merger.    They
   allege  that, in  connection with  the  merger, old  Primerica
   and/or its  officers or  directors and/or  former officers  or
   directors  committed  fraud  and  breached  fiduciary  duties.
   Plaintiffs  allege that  the  proxy  statement  by  which  the
   shareholders' votes  on  the merger  were solicited  contained
   representations which were materially misleading  or failed to
   disclose  material  facts.   Plaintiffs  seek  to  rescind the
   transaction or  in  the alternative  to  recover  compensatory
   damages.  A motion brought in one of these cases to enjoin the
   merger  was denied.   The  litigation  is proceeding  with the
   designated  lead case in United States District Court, Eastern
   District of New York, under  the caption Wallerstein, et al v.
                                            ---------------------
   Primerica Corporation, et al. 
   -----------------------------













</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.04
<SEQUENCE>18
<TEXT>



                                                EXHIBIT  NO. 99.04

                                                COMPANY'S FORM 10-K
                                                December 31, 1989

                                                Page 31



   Item 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

   Other Litigation

        Eight purported class actions were filed in late 1987 and
   early  1988  (two of  which  named  SBHU  as a  defendant)  in
   connection  with  the  June 1986  initial  public  offering of
   Worlds of Wonder ("WOW") common  stock, open market trading in
   WOW  common stock,  the public  offering in  June 1987  of $80
   million in WOW convertible debentures, and open market trading
   in the debentures.   The eight actions have  been consolidated
   in In re Worlds of  Wonder, Inc. Securities Litigation, in the
      ---------------------------------------------------
   United  States District  Court for  the  Northern District  of
   California.

        SBHU  acted as co-lead underwriter for the initial public
   offering and as  sole underwriter for the  debenture offering.
   The  Complaint  alleges  that the  prospectuses  by  which the
   initial public offering  and the debenture offering  were made
   and  various   press  releases  and   public  statements  were
   materially false and  misleading.  Plaintiffs seek  to recover
   the  amounts paid  by  all purchasers  in  the initial  public
   offering  and in  the debenture  offering, as  well as  losses
   sustained by  purchasers of WOW common stock  or debentures in
   the open market between June 20, 1986 and November 9, 1987.

        On  June 8, 1988, purchasers of approximately $12 million
   of  the WOW convertible debentures offered  in June 1987 filed
   an individual  action naming  SBHU and  others as  defendants,
   Steinhardt Partners, et  al. v. Smith Barney etc.,  et al., in
   ----------------------------------------------------------
   the United States District Court  for the southern District of
   New  York.   These plaintiffs,  who  are seeking  compensatory
   damages  based  on claims  similar  to those  asserted  in the
   consolidated class actions,  have asserted that they  will opt
   out of  any class  certified in the  other actions  and pursue
   their claims individually.   On  February 2,  1989, the  Court
   granted  defendants' joint  motion to transfer  the Steinhardt
                                                       ----------
   action to the Northern District of California.











<PAGE>






                                           COMPANY'S FORM 10-K
                                           December 31, 1990 

                                           Page 30

   Item 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

   Other Litigation

        For information concerning purported class actions and an
   individual action against  SBHU and others in  connection with
   Worlds  of Wonder common stock and convertible debentures, see
   the description that  appears in the  first, second and  third
   paragraphs of page 31 of the Company's filing on Form 10-K for
   the  year  ended  December  31,  1989,  which  description  is
   incorporated  by reference  herein.  A  copy of  the pertinent
   paragraphs of  such filing is  included as an exhibit  to this
   Form  10-K.   On March  26, 1990,  the United  States District
   Court  for the  Northern District  of  California certified  a
   class  of  common stock  purchasers and  a class  of debenture
   purchasers.



















































</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.05
<SEQUENCE>19
<TEXT>



                                                 EXHIBIT  NO.  99.05

                                                 COMPANY'S FORM 10-Q
                                                 September 30, 1993 

                                                 Page 26

   Item 1.  Legal Proceedings

        In October 1993, several  purported class action lawsuits
   were  filed in  the  Federal District  Court for  the Southern
   District of New  York naming Smith Barney, Harris  Upham & Co.
   Incorporated ("SBS") as defendant.  The cases arise from SBS's
   participation as lead and co-underwriter in the initial public
   offerings  of three separate funds managed by Hyperion Capital
   Management Inc.   The plaintiffs have also named as defendants
   the  funds'  directors  and   the  co-underwriters  and  their
   representatives.    Plaintiffs  allege  that the  registration
   statements and prospectuses  by which the offerings  were made
   between June 1992  and October 1992 were materially  false and
   misleading, and  are  seeking unspecified  damages  in  claims
   brought  under the  Federal  securities  laws.    The  Company
   believes it has meritorious defenses to these actions and 
   intends to defend against them vigorously.














</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.06
<SEQUENCE>20
<TEXT>




                                           EXHIBIT NO. 99.06

                                           COMPANY'S FORM 10-K
                                           December 31, 1992

                                           Page 26

        Because  of  former  operations  of  old  Primerica,  the
   Company  and certain  of  its  subsidiaries  are  involved  in
   matters relating  to Federal,  state or  local regulations  or
   laws   regulating  the   discharge  of   materials   into  the
   environment.  The  most significant of these  matters involves
   the  manufacturing facility at  the Chemplex site  in Clinton,
   Iowa, which  was formerly operated  as a joint venture  by ACC
   Chemical Co., a former subsidiary of old  Primerica, and Getty
   Chemical Company.   In  connection with the  1984 sale  of its
   interest  in this venture,  old Primerica agreed  to indemnify
   the purchaser for  up to 50% of  certain liabilities including
   liabilities relating  to  environmental matters  prior to  the
   date  of sale.  The Company  and other potentially responsible
   parties  have negotiated an  agreement with the  United States
   Environmental  Protection  Agency ("EPA")  for  remediation of
   groundwater contamination at  the site.  A  consent decree for
   groundwater  remediation was entered  on November 7,  1991.  A
   separate  Remedial  Investigation and  Feasibility  Study work
   plan concerning soil  contamination has been prepared  and EPA
   is  in the  process of  selecting its  preferred remedy.   The
   majority  of  the  remaining environmental  matters  relate to
   manufacturing operations that were sold by old Primerica prior
   to  1987.   For  the  majority  of  the  environmental  sites,
   liability was  assumed by  the purchasers  of the  operations.
   The Company believes that insurance maintained by or on behalf
   of   the  Company,   old  Primerica  or   certain  affiliates,
   indemnities in  favor of the Company or  such subsidiaries and
   contributions from other potentially responsible parties  will
   be available to mitigate the financial exposure of the Company
   and its subsidiaries in these matters.  The Company is using a
   variety  of approaches to recover from  each of these sources,
   including  pursuing litigation  where appropriate  relating to
   such matters.


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.07
<SEQUENCE>21
<TEXT>



                                                 EXHIBIT  NO. 99.07

                                                 COMPANY'S FORM 8-K
                                                 March 1, 1994 

                                                 Page 2

   Item 5.  Other Events

        In a case  entitled United States v.  Travelers Insurance
   Co.,  filed in  the  United  States  District  Court  for  the
   District  of Connecticut in April 1989, the federal government
   alleges that old  Travelers improperly handled health  benefit
   claims  for individuals who are actively employed and eligible
   for Medicare coverage.   In November 1992, the  Court ruled on
   cross  motions  for  summary  judgment,  and  found  that  old
   Travelers had no  liability for actions taken  in its capacity
   as a claims administrator.  However, the Court also recognized
   that the government's right of recovery is independent  of the
   rights of  the  insured, and  is  not governed  by  procedural
   limitations in the plans.




















</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.08
<SEQUENCE>22
<TEXT>



                                                  EXHIBIT  NO. 99.08

                                                  COMPANY'S FORM 8-K
                                                  March 1, 1994 

                                                  Page 2

   Item 5.  Other Events.

        In a case entitled The Travelers Insurance Company et al.
   v. Richard  John Ratcliffe Keeling  et al., filed in  New York
   Supreme  Court in  June  1991, old  Travelers seeks to enforce
   reinsurance contracts with certain underwriters  at Lloyd's of
   London with respect to recoveries for certain asbestos claims.
   In January 1994, the Court stayed litigation of this matter in
   favor of arbitration.  The issues before the arbitration panel
   include  the underwriters' breach of  contract and anticipated
   breach of their agreement with the Company on asbestos-related
   reinsurance claims.
















</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.09
<SEQUENCE>23
<TEXT>


                                                              EXHIBIT 99.09

                                                        COMPANY'S FORM 10-Q
                                                         September 30, 1994

                                                                    Page 29


                    A  number of cases have been filed against subsidiaries
          of   the  Company,   other  insurance   companies  and   industry
          organizations  relating  to  service  fee  charges  and   premium
          calculations   on   certain   workers   compensation   insurance.
          Subsidiaries of the Company are  defendants in an action filed by
          the  Attorney General  of South  Carolina in  August 1994  in the
          Court of Common Pleas, County  of Greenville, South Carolina, and
          a purported class  action filed in September 1994  in the Circuit
          Court for  Bullock County,  Alabama.   Certain  of the  Company's
          subsidiaries have  also been named  as defendants in  a purported
          class action filed in 1993 in  the Superior Court Division of the
          General Court of  Justice, Wake County,  North Carolina, and,  in
          April 1994,  were named as  additional defendants in  a purported
          class  action pending  in the  116th  District of  Dallas County,
          Texas.  The  plaintiffs in these cases generally  allege that the
          workers  compensation carriers  in the  state  have conspired  to
          collect  excessive  or  improper  service  fees  or  premiums  in
          violation  of  state  antitrust laws  and/or  state  unfair trade
          practices  laws.    The  plaintiffs  seek  monetary  damages  and
          possible   injunctive  relief.    The  Company  believes  it  has
          meritorious defenses and intends to contest the allegations.






</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
