annual  course/conference  national 

MOBILITY  CENTRE 


■An  7r 

\<\-n  1 


M.C.  MIGEL  LIBRARY 
AMERICAN  PRINTING 
HOUSE  FOR  THE  BLIND 


NATIONAL  MOBILITY  CENTRE 
22  Melville  Road 
Edgbaston,  Birmingham  16 


The  Annual  Course/Conference  was  held  on  6th  and  7th  May  1976 
at  the  Norfolk  Hotel,  Birmingham. 

Subject  of  Course/Conference  - Low  Vision  Training  for  mobility 
purposes . 

Speakers/Tutors  - Mr  E Apple,  Executive  Director,  American 
Foundation  for  the  Blind,  Inc.,  New  York;  Mrs  Marianne  Apple. 

Delegates  lattending  Course/Conference  - 

79  Mobility  Officers  from  Local  Authorities  and  Voluntary 
organisations. 

8 Mobility  Officers  from  Schools  and  Colleges, 

19  from  educational  and  research  establishments. 

12  from  Social  Services  administration. 

8 Mobility  Officers  and  visitors  from  overseas, 

7 Guide  Dogs  Association  for  the  Blind 
5 Members  of  the  Advisory  Committee  of  N,M,C, 


138  Total 


After  Walter  Thornton,  OBE,  Chairman  of  the  National  Mobility 
Centre  Advisory  Committee,  had  welcomed  delegates  and  the  speakers, 

Mr  cind  Mrs  L Apple,  representing  the  American  Founcition  for  the  * 
Blind,  to  this  year's  Conference/Course,  Mr  Ryan  gave  a resume  of 
the  work  carried  out  at  NMC  since  last  year.  Apart  from  producing 
qualified  Mobility  Officers,  links  with  Europe  had  strengthened  in 
that  a separate,  but  similar  programme  for  training  instructors  was 
now  functioning  in  Marburg,  Germany.  Two  seminars  designed  to  help 
Local  Authorities  in  setting  up  domiciliary  based  Mobility  services 
had  been  held  at  NMC  whilst  a third  one  was  given  in  Dublin,  geared 
to  the  structure  of  services  in  Eire.  Together  with  Walter  Thornton, 
OBE,  and  Dr  Armstrong  of  the  Blind  Mobility  Research  Unit,  Nottingham 
University,  NMC  had  been  involved  in  producing  an  illustrated  booklet 
written  in  four  languages  to  further  promote  the  service  throughout 
Europe.  Links  with  the  Guide  Dogs  for  the  Blind  Assn,  had  been 
established  in  that  arrangements  for  Mobility  Officers  (MOs)  to 
spend  some  time  at  Guide  Dog  Training  Centres  can  now  be  made. 

A questionnaire  was  sent  out  to  each  MO  to  gain  information 
about  the  service  provided.  Findings  from  returns  are  as  follov/s; 

MOs  working  full-time  - 66%,  part-time  - 25%,  not  at  all  - 7%, 
not  working  due  to  promotion  - 2%. 

Of  the  total  number  of  clients  trained;  45%  were  trained  in  the 
use  of  the  Long  Cane;  17%  - Guide  Cane;  10%  - Symbol  Cane;  1%  - 
Sonic  Guide;  and  27%  - trained  in  other  skills.  This  appears  to 
reflect  the  vision  of  MOs  in  seeing  the  need  to  provide  a service 
which  often  embraces  aspects  that  are  not  primarily  mobility. 

Mr  Ryan  continued  by  saying  it  was  the  experience  of  most  MOs 
to  work  with  people  who  had  a degree  of  residual  vision  and  it  was 
this  stimulus  which  had  resulted  in  the  subject  of  Low  Vision 
being  the  theme  for  this  year's  Course/Conference.  It  was  hoped, 
therefore,  that  the  course  v/ould  help  in  formulating  a uniform  and 
structured  type  of  training  for  those  with  low  vision,  rather  than 
the  informal  and  uncoordinated  approach  so  far  adopted  in  most  parts 
of  the  world  outside  the  USA. 

Low  Vision  and  Mobility  - Gene  Apple 

The  two  tenets  which  Mr  Apple  believed  are  central  to  thinking 
about  Low  Vision  mobility  are  low  vision  itself  and  learning. 


/ continued... 


Oo/A^-  0.  0/ac/ 


/ 7 7 


2. 


fjl/l'?'/ 

.il 

(/T  j ^ 

i 

\ 


2 - Learning  Changes  in  behavioural  learning  took  place  when  one's 
perceptual  ability  was  changed,  ie.  through  blindness.  Changes  will 
come  about  whether  anything  is  done  or  not,  but  MOs,  due  to  their 
role,  can  be  very  instrumental  in  the  process  of  these  changes. 

Historically,  low  vision  people  were  trained  under  a blindfold, 
but  Mr  Apple  contends  that  it  would  have  been  more  advantageeous  to 
use  whatever  visual  stimulation  they  could ■ perceive,  although  use  of 
the  blindfold  did  facilitate  the  learning  of  some  skills  which  might 
otherwise  have  been  problematic. 

I4r  Apple  went  on  to  describe  six  common  types  of  visual  field  loss 
which  are  not  scientifically  based,  but  rather  clinically  observed. 
The  concept  of  function  which  helps  in  appreciating  these  fields  are 
the  'what'  and  the  'where'  vision;  the  'what'  indicating  the  central 
vision  which  indentifies;  and  the  'where'  indicating  the  peripheral 
vision  which  registers  that  objects  are  present.  The  'what'  vision 
requires  good  light  for  optimal  functioning,  whereas  the  'where' 
vision  can  function  in  poor  light  conditions.  The  six  common  types 
of  field  loss  ares 

i)  Peripheral  field  loss  occurs  with  Retinitis  Pigmentosa  and 
Glaucoma;  gives  rise  to  night  blindness.  The  person  may,  or  may  not, 
require  a cane  for  travel  purposes.  Good  on 'what'  vision. 

ii)  Central  field  loss  occurs  in  many  neurologically  based  dis“ 
orders  which  affect  the  macula  area,  ie.  Optic  Atrophy.  The  person 
will  have  good  night  vision,  good  'where'  vision  and  not  generally 
be  in  need  of  a cane  for  travel  purposes.  Affected  by  glare. 

iii)  Scattered  Scotomas  occur  in  Choroidal  Retinitis  and  tend  to 
have  a mixture  affecting  both  central  anc  peripheral  vision. 

iv)  Wedge  or  pie-shaped  scotomas  Occur  in  Retinal  detachments  and 
sometimes  in  eye  injuries,  also  have  a mixture  affecting  the  central 
and  peripheral  vision, 

v)  Homonomous  Hemianopia  occurs  in  brain  injuries,  sometimes 
destroying  a quarter  or  half  the  visual  vield..  Even  with  the  remain- 
ing field,  people  may  not  always  be  able  to  interpret  the  visual 
stimulation  received;  eg.  a straight  line  seen  in  existing  visual 
field  may  erroneously  be  extended  into  the  blind  field  where  it  does 
not,  in  fact,  exist.  May  be  in  need  of  visual  experience  training. 

vi)  Cataract  when  the  cataract  is  removed  and  the  patient  wears 
a 12,14  or  16  dioptre  lens,  it  causes  a phenomena  called  Ringed 
Scotoma.  This  creates  distorted  visual  images,  including  'jack-in- 
the-box'  effect  whereby  images  suddenly  pop  into  the  visual  field 
from  the  blind  areas. 

In  common  with  others,  Mr  Apple  believes  it  is  not  really  pos- 
sible to  train  an  individual  for  oncoming  blindness  unless  it  is 
certain  that  vision  v/ill  be  lost  within  a short  period,  (less  than 
one  year) . Then  a blindfold  can  be  used  for  mobility  training 
purposes.  Otherwise,  it  is  a wasteful  and  pointless  exercise  to 
train  a person  as  somebody  he  is  not,  nor  might  be,  for  years  to 
come.  Mr  Apple  then  considered  some  'dos'  and’don'ts'  when  working 
with  low  vision  people. 

/ continued  .... 


1 - Low  Vision  Great  ambiguity  exists  over  the  nature  and  def- 
inition of  low  vision,  but  it  helps  meet  the  needs  of  those  people 
with  this  problem  if  one  thinks  of  it  as  a separate  disability. 
Polarization  is  the  other  characteristic  of  low  vision;  there  is  a 
tendency  for  responses  toward  those  with  this  handicap  to  be  pre- 
determined and  uniform.  Both  ambiguity  and  polarization  can  be 
avoided  if  low  vision  persons  are  regarded  as  separate  individuals 
with  different  problems. 


3, 

i)  Beware  of  introducing  equipment  too  early,  especially  blindness 
identified  equipment.  This  is  why  the  evaluation  process  is  so 
important  in  assessing  the  needs  of  each  individual  - the  needs  for 
equipment  will  often  be  preceded  by  other  needs, 

ii)  Be  conscious  of  social  pressures  which  push  an  individual  into 
the  role  of  a totally  blind  person  frequently  because  people  find  it 
easier,  or  more  convenient,  or  kinder,  to  regard  him  in  this  way. 
Social  pressures  seem  to  demand  that  blind  people  continually  have  to 
explain  what  they  can  do,  whereas  people  with  low  vision  continually 
have  to  explain  what  they  cannot  do. 

iii)  Be  aware  of  economic  pressures.  Depending  on  the  structure  of 
the  social  service  and  welfare  systems  prevailing,  an  individual  may 
have  economic  responsibilities  which  create  additional  stress  to  that 
of  visual  loss-  does  the  individual  have  sufficient  vision  so  as  not 
to  qualify  him  for  work,  state  or  national  benefit?  or  for  compen- 
sation? does  the  loss  of  earning  power  threaten  his  standard  of 
living  and  lifestyle?  • 

iv)  Consider  loss  of  communication.  Eye  contact,  facial  expression 
and  written  communication  become  more  difficult.  There  is  a whole 
process  of  body  adjustment  as  the  use  of  lenses  may  necessitate  a 
very  close  proximity  to  the  perceived  object.  This  is  especially 
difficult  for  older  people.  Stresses  tend  to  build  up  which  produce 
irritability  and  fatigue,  people  with  low  vision  often  seeming  to  be 
more  fatigued  than  those  with  total  loss. 

Mr  Apple  concluded  by  saying  that  the  ambiguity  caused  in  social 
interaction  results  in  confused  judgments  as  to  what  is  happening  or 
what  is  needed. 

After  general  discussion  on  the  way  in  which  the  Snellen  chart 
is  used,  Mr  Apple  went  on  to  point  out  that  it  is  a good  indication 
of  visual  acuity,  but  it  did  not  account  for  visual  fields  or  movement 
within  those  fields.  Furthermore,  the  acuityf indings  can  be  affected 
by  quality  of  lighting  during  the  test.  Individual  characteristics  of 
the  person  may  also  affect  findings;  how  fatigued  is  he  at  the  time 
of  the  test?  or  is  he  taking  medications  including  tranquilisers 
which  affect  visual  function?  In  the  case  of  diabetics,  optimal 
testings  should  be  taken  during  early  morning  or  after  lunch  when 
the  person  is  at  his  best. 

Low  Vision  and  Schoolchildren  - Marianne  Apple 

Prior  to  showing  the  videofilm  on  Low  Vision  Training  with  school 
children,  Mrs  Apple  explained  that  it  depicted  the  work  of  a Mobility 
specialist  and  an  Optometrist  acting  as  a team.  The  purpose  of  their 
work  was  to  increase  the  visual  functioning  of  children  and  thereby 
increase  their  self-image;  the  children,  having  at  first  been  regarded 
both  by  themselves  and  others,  as  totally  blind.  The  conventional 
methods  of  evaluating  their  visual  functioning  were  found  to  be  very 
inadequate  and  the  first  indication  that  the  children  did,  in  fact, 
have  some  useful  residual  vision,  manifested  itself  during  mobility 
instruction.  The  Optometrist  had  to  improvise  procedures  for 
assessing  their  visual  capacity  during  this  process.  An  important 
aspect  of  the  film  was  the  attempt  to  optimise  the  natural  environ- 
ment so  that  what  was  visually  perceived  contributed  to  the  process 
of  learning  to  use  vision.  Another  aspect  that  the  film  covered  was 
the  way  in  which  children  with  fluctuating  vision  were  dealt  with. 

The  showing  of  the  film  illustrated  many  of  these  points  and 
demonstrated  various  techniques  involved  in  teaching  children  to 
perceive  and  locate  sources  of  light  physically  (development  of  hand- 
eye  coordination) , to  discriminate  and  identify  a range  of  material 

/ continued  .... 


4. 


from  gross  three-dimensional  objects  to  finer,  two  dimensional  shapes 
and  to  carry  out  visual  memory  tasks,  and  colour  discrimination.  The 
teaching/learning  process  was  structured  in  such  a way  that  it  was  an 
enjoyable  experience?  a built-in  degree  of  success  plus  constant  re- 
inforcemnt  ensured  that  levels  of  motivation  were  high. 

Initial  learning  resulted  in  poor  posture  and  gait,  especially 
during  mobility  lessons.  These  aspects  improved  as  the  children 
learned  to  use  their  vision  more  efficiently.  Enhanced  visual  skilss, 
including  use  of  visual  aids,  were  then  combined  with  auditory  skills 
in  preparation  for  travelling  in  traffic  and  other  hazardous  situation 

Discussion  followed  in  which  concern  was  expressed  over  the  prob- 
lems of  posture  and  levels  of  stress  imposed  by  the  attempts  of  the 
children  to  use  their  residual  vision.  Were  the  children  motivated 
intrinsically  or  extrinsicall;y  and  was  it  always  appropriate  to  use 
low  vision  for  mobility  purposes? 

It  was  pointed  out  that  the  student  cannot  be  asked  to  tr^in 
beyond  his  capacities  or  limits  of  safety?  but  his  potential  may  not 
be  known  unless  some  form  of  assessment  is  made.  The  process  of 
evaluating  his  visual  capacities  will  help  the  child  and  MO  In  knowing 
the  extent  of  the  child’s  visual  limitations  and^ the  appropriateness 
of  using  vision  and/or  other  sense  modalities  for  purposes  of  travel. 
Generally  speaking,  training  and  practice  will  reduce  strain  and 
improve  performances.  . 

Discussion  also  took  place  concerning  the  work  and  attitudes  of 
schools  toward  children  with  low  vision?  the  point  being  stressed 
that  the  discovery  of  visual  perception  usually  falls  upon  teachers. 

As  in  the  case  of  mobility,  no  structured  programmes  for  developing 
use  of  low  vision  have,  as  yet,  been  formally  introduced,  but 
educators  were  very  sensitive  to  the  problem  and  do  encourage  visual 
functioning  wherever  possible.  It  was  felt  that  much  could  be  gained 
by  improving  links  between  ophthalmologists,  educators  and  MOs  - the 
latter  may  appreciate  degrees  of  residual  capacity  which  might  not 
be  in  evidence  in  a classroom  or  clinical  situation. 

Low  Vision  Programme  for  Veterans,  Palo  Alto,  California  - Gene  Apple 

Mr  Apple  introduced  the  videofilm  of  Low  Vision  in  Adults  in 
Palo  Alto,  California,  as  a technical  effort,  specifically  put  tog- 
ether to  show  the  type  of  environment  selected  for  this  purpose.  He 
said  that  two  systems  of  evaluation  and  training  had  been  worked 
through  before  the  present  method  now  in  operation.  The  film  showed 
subjects  undergoing  various  tests  prior  to  negotiating  outdoor  routes. 
Clients  were  visually  locating  static  objects  in  indoor  and  outdoor 
situations  and  attempting  to  see  as  much  detail  as  possible  on  each 
object.  The  distance  and  lighting  conditions  under  which  objects 
were  seen  in  the  indoor  tests  were  taken  into  account  and  measured. 
Subjects  then  carried  out  similar  tests  outside,  but  with  moving 
objects?  tests  which  involved  the  discernment  of  the  relative 
positions  of  pedestrians  to  the  subject  and  the  geometric  patterns 
they  made  whilst  walking. 

The  18  routes  used  by  people  in  the  evaluation  were  selected  to 
graduate  in  degree  of  difficulty  both  visually  and  with  mobility  in 
mind,  from  the  simple  to  the  more  demanding?  ie.  from  straight- 
forward residential  areas  free  of  hazards  to  crowded  and  complex 
town  conditions.  During  this  process,  specific  points  of  visual 
difficulty  which  the  Mobility  Officers  scrutinised,  were  the  client's 
ability  to: 

i)  Walk  a straight  line,  both  on  a pavement  and  in  a rural  setting 
and  maintain  balance. 


ii)  Avoid  collision  with  obstacles  from  foot  level  to  overhead 

and  to  visually  scan  in  an  efficient  way.  , 

/ continued... 


5. 


iii)  Detect  dovmdrops  and  other  surface  irregularities. 

iv)  Cross  road  junctions  using  visual  clues  from  both  traffic 
and  topography. 

v)  Adapt  to  changes  in  lighting  involved  in  moving  from  shadows 
into  glare,  from  indoors  to  outdoors,  and  vice  versa. 

vi)  Identify  landmarks  in  gross  form  and  in  detail  and  colour  if 
possible . 

vii)  Travel  in  crowded  areas  and  locate  destination  points  which 
may  be  difficult  to  discern  visually;  to  travel  indoors  in  congested 
situations. 

viii)  Make  use  of  public  transport  facilities. 

ix)  Negotiate  the  more  irregular,  such  as,  car  park  areas,  off- 
set road  junctions,  road  works,  etc. 

Other  points  which  are  closely  observed  include  each  individual's 
ability  to  follow  instructions,  use  compass  directions,  remain 
orientated  and  relocate  route  starting  points.  Parri  pasu  with  this 
evaluating  process  the  ophthalmological  department  was  also  carrying 
out  clinical  tests,  the  results  of  which  included  measures  and 
dimensions  of  visual  acuity  and  field  for  each  ej^notes  on  colour 
defect,  and  suggested  optical  aids  such  as  monoculars  or  binoculars 
for  mobility  and  reading  purposes.  All  this  information  was  avail- 
able to  MOs  to  help  in  formulating  the  most  appropriate  low  vision 
programme  for  each  client. 

Low  Vision  Practicum 

Under  the  direction  of  Mr  Apple,  delegates  were  split  into  three 
groups  in  order  to  carry  out  three  different  types  of  activity.  The 
Groups  were  each  further  divided  into  two  sub-groups, each  one  con- 
centrating on  certain  aspects  of  the  three  activities  undertaken. 

Each  group  comprised  one  group  leader,  whose  role  was  specifically 
a teaching  one,  and  approximately  15-20  others  who  acted  as  students. 
The  purpose  of  this  approach  was  to  show  that  learning  to  use  low 
vision  can  take  place  in  a variety  of  ways  and  situations.  The 
actual  structure  of  each  session  v;as  informal,  thus  allowing  indiv- 
iduals, both  group  leaders  and  participants,  to  adapt  and  evolve 
strategies  of  teaching  and  learning.  The  gog<^s  used  in  the 
practicum  were  set  up  with  lenses  to  simulate  visual  acuity  loss  and 
restricted  visual  fields. 

Group  A (1)  - use  of  orange  coloured  and  white  footballs  to 
develop  a concept  of  tracking  and  locating  moving  objects  whilst  in 
a stationary  position.  Venue  - light  grey  asphalt  surface  of  car 
park,  varying  backgrounds  of  shades  and  colour. 

Morning  session  - using  lenses  of  6ft  acuity.  Conditions  fairly 
dull  at  start  of  session,  gradually  brightening.  To  pass  a ball  to 
a goggles  wearer  who  attempted  to  track  and  catch  bdl.  Ball  passers 
were  positioned  in  a circle  around  goggles  wearer,  and  each  spoke 
prior  to  throwing  a ball  towards  wearer.  Balls  were  first  rolled, 
then  bounced  once,  and  finally  thrown  direct  to  each  wearer. 

Afternoon  session  - as  above,  but  conditions  had  changed  to 
bright  sunshine. 

Group  A (2)  - as  Group  A (1),  but  using  lenses  of  2ft  acuity. 

Findings  t 

1)  Performance  was  good  when  sun  was  behind  wearer  and  on  the 
ball. 

2)  Performance  was  better  if  background  was  darkish  and  no  glare 
was  present. 

3)  Performances  appeared  marginally  better  when  the  white  ball 
rather  than  the  orange  ball  was  used. 


/ continued 


6. 


4)  Performances  appeared  better  when  passer  was  wearing  white  or 
brightly  coloured  garments. 

5)  Some  people  able  to  consistently  out-perform  others. 

Although  localisation  and  coordination  quickly  improved  with  each 
exercise,  carry-over  of  learning  was  much  affected  by  conditions  of 
lighting  and  background  contrast.  Performances  improved  more  con- 
sistently when  the  sun  was  not  too  bright,  or  shining  directly  into 
the  eyes  of  the  subject.  No  discernible  differences  noted  between 
wearers  of  6ft  or  2ft  acuity  lenses  in  this  series  of  exercises. 

Group  B (1)  - Use  of  staircase.  To  develop  a concept  of  using 
low  vision  whilst  moving  in  a normal,  but  difficult  situation. 

Morning  Session  - using  lenses  of  6ft  acuity.  To  walk  up  cind  down 
a straight  outdoor  staircase  with  open  treads.  Conditions  fairly 
dull  at  start  of  session,  but  gradually  brightening. 

Findings ; 

1)  Depended  on  blind  skills  at  first,  sighted  skills  being  almost 
impossible  to  employ.  Posture  fair  and  perfonr.ance  shaky. 

2)  With  introduction  and  practice  of  visual  scanning,  some 
identification  of  parts  of  the  staircase  was  possible,  particularly 
the  hand  rails, 

3)  Although  scanning  tended  to  interrupt  continuity  of  movement 
some  subjects  found  it  helpful  and  reassuring,  whereas  others  found 
it  unnecessarily  distracting. 

4)  Ascending  was  nearly  always  easier  visually,  as  one  coiLd  usually 
see  something,  but  descending  was  more  problematic  as  there  was 
nothing  discernible.  No  visual  indication  when  ground  level  was 
reached. 

5)  Repetition  improved  confidence  and  performances. 

Afternoon  session  - the  same,  but  strong  sunlight  was  now  shining. 

Findings? 

1)  It  was  necessary  to  wear  a hat  with  a peak  to  reduce  glare 
which  otherwise  prevented  subjects  from  seeing  anting. 

2)  The  sunlight  helped  subjects  pick  out  the  stair  treads  and 
obviated  the  need  td  depend  on  blind  skills. 

3)  Much  easier  than  morning  session,  due  to  sunlight  and  accum- 
ulated practice. 

Group  B (2)”  use  of  staircase  inside  a building.  Conditions  - 
sunlight  was  falling  on  staircase,  providing  good  lighting. 

Morning  session  - using  lens® of  2ft  acuity  with  a 5°  aperture. 

To  walk  up  and  down  an  indoor  staircase. 

Findings ; 

1)  Posture  and  balance  improved  with  practice. 

2)  Assessing  distances  difficult, 

3)  Especially  difficult  when  starting  to  ascend  or  descend  stairs j 
ie  visually  locating  and  relating  changes  of  levels  underfoot. 

4)  Actual  descending  of  staircase  not  difficult,  due  to  adoption 
of  blind  skills,  with  which  all  subjects  were  familiar. 

5)  Visual  scanning.  This  evolved  with  most  subjects  first  scannir 
in  a vertical  plane  and  then  in  a horizontal  one. 

6)  Mixed  views.  Some  found  colour  contrasts  (carpeted  edge  of 
stairs)  helpful,  others  confusing. 

7)  Lighting,  Very  important,  helped  when  shining  on  stairs. 

Afternoon  session  -as  exercise  1,  but  extended  route  to  include 

negotiation  of  a lift  and  the  location  of  a table  on  the  ground  floor, 
No  sunlight  on  staircase. 

Findings ; 

1)  Route  extension  evolved  due  to  the  fact  that  negotiation  of 
the  staircase  had  become  easy,  as  a result  of  accumulated  practice 
and  learning. 

/ continued  .... 


7 


2)  Light  conditions  caused  problems  of  adjustment,  especially 
when  moving  from  natural  light  conditions  on  staircase  to  the 
artificial  lighting  in  and  near  the  lift. 

3)  Distance  judgment  and  hand/eye  coordination  difficult  when 
using  the  lift. 

4)  With  practice  stress  was  reduced,  confidence  developed  and 
performance  improved. 

Group  C - Route  negotiation.  To  develop  the  concept  of  low 
vision  experience  when  travelling  in  a natural  environment  in  which 
there  are  other  sources  of  movement. 

Group  C ( 1 ) - Using  lenses  of  6ft  acuity  with  a 5^  aperture. 

Morning  session  - subjects  negotiated  a route  in  which  one  road  was 
crossed  and  two  turns  of  direction  were  made.  No  instruction  was 
given,  the  use  of  a long  cane  was  optional.  After  subjects  had  com- 
pleted this  exercise  on  a trial  and  error  basis,  discussion  took  place 
which  resulted  in  a plan  to  use  their  low  vision  methodically  and 
systematically . 

Afternoon  Session  - The  same  route  was  then  travelled  during  which 
subjects  applied  the  principles  that  had  been  formulated.  This  time 
no  long  cane  was  used,  but  light  conditions  were  much  improved.  Good 
sunlight. 

Findings ; 

1)  All  subjects  preferred  to  use  their  sight  and  carry  a symbol 
cane.  They  were  able  to  concentrate  more  fully  if  not  using  a long 
cane. 

2)  Because  of  better  visual  conditions  in  the  afternoon,  subjects 
could  (a)  see  more  objects,  (b)  avoid  pedestrians,  (c)  discriminate 
colours,  (d)  see  kerb  edges. 

3)  After  discussing  methodical  use  of  vision  for  scanning  purposes, 
subjects  felt  less  strain  and  were  able  to  see  much  more  within  the 
environment.  r ' 

It  was  anticipated  that  night  travel  would  prove  much  more  dif- 
ficult and  necessitate  the  use  of  a mobility  aid. 

Group  C (2)  - using  lenses  of  2ft  acuity. 

Morning  session  - Subjects  negotiated  a similar  route  to  that  used  by 
C (1) , the  long  cane  was*  used.  ’ - 

Afternoon  session  - Further  practice  took  place  over  thes  ame  route 
but  light  conditions  had  changed  - good  sunlight,  but  greater  contrast 
of  areas  in  and  out  of  shadow. 

Findings ; 

1)  Posture  was  affected  to  a small  degree,  especially  in  the 
beginning. 

2)  There  was  a need  for  the  group  leader  to  teach  and  provide 
.feedback  so  that  the  visual  stimuli  perceived  had  some  meaning. 

3)  Lack  of  contrast  in  morning  session,  when  light  conditions 
were  dull,  reduced  performance. 

4)  Movement  from  bright  areas  to  shaded  areas  in  the  afternoon 
session  caused  problems  of  adjustment,  but  overall  performance  was 
better  than  in  the  morning  session. 

5)  In  the  afternoon  session,  outline  of  horizon  discernible,  and 
moving  objects  seen  if  they  had  reflective  surfaces, ie.  cars. 

6)  Although  kerb  detection  was  poor  in  bcth  sessions,  subjects 
were  able  to  make  straight  road  crossings,  by  seeing  the  gross  outline 
of  corners,  particularly  in  the  afternoon  session. 

7)  When  objects  detected  visually,  problems  of  hand/eye  coordin- 
ation arose  when  physically  trying  to  locate  object. 

Conclusion  The  long  cane  is  definetdy  needed  as  it  is  quite 
impossible  to  rely  on  visual  methods. 

After  the  findings  of  each  group  had  been  presented,  further 
discussion  took  place  on  the  problem  of  encouraging  clients  to  relax. 

/ continued  .... 


8 


If  people  are  over-tense,  performances  are  usually  diminished'  in 
quality  and  a number  of  non-specific  techniques  are  used  to  reduce  , 
tension.  Often  clients  may  be  on  tranquilisers  and  other  drugs, 
which  though  lessening  tension  may  also  reduce  performance  and  rate 
of  learning. 

Mr  and  Mrs  Apple  concluded  the  session  by  stating  that  the  use 
of  goggles  provided  a means  of  evaluating  what  could  be  done  visually. 
They  felt  that  by  working  together  over  a period  of  three  or  more 
years  MOs  in  the  United  Kingdom  should  be  able  to  evolve  and  develop 
a programme  which  could  become  standard.  At  the  same  time,  a network 
of  contacts  should  be  established  with  all  other  related  disciplines, 
and  that  the  MO  has  the  crucial  role  in  bringing  this  to  fruition. 

The  Approach  to  Low  Vision  and  its  Philosophy  - Marianne  Apple 

The  criteria  and  procedures  involved  in  assessing  visual  function 
ability  should  be  standardised,  but  as  yet  agreement  on  standardisation 
is  a major  problem. 

Clinical  assessments  of  low  vision  delineate  and  measure  visual 
deficiency,  but  not  the  individual's  ability  to  overcome  that  def- 
iciency. The  prescription  of  telescopic  aids  for  mobility  has  lagged 
far  behind  the  prescription  of  near  vision  aids,  and  this  could  be 
attributed  to  the  lack  of  interaction  in  the  past  between  Clinicians 
and  MOs.  Yet  both  clinical  staff  and  MOs  have  useful  information  to 
exchange,  for  example:  optomotrists  need  to  know  certain  things  about 
mobility  if  they  are  going  to  prescribe  an  optical  aid  for  that 
purpose.  Telescopic  aids  are  useful  for  some,  butmany  cannot  adjust  to 
the  increased  magnification,  the  distorted  movement  and  to  the  poor 
lighting  qualities  of  telescopes  within  a mobility  context. 

The  MO  also  needs  clinically  based  information  prior  to  conducting  : 
his  own  functional  assessment,  ie.  measurements  of  visual  field  and 
acuity;  type  of  fluctuating  vision  if  present; . ability  tp* discriminate 
or  confuse  colours;  and  information  bn  eye  conditions  that  need  to  be  | 
accommodated,  eg.  retinal  detachment.  i 

An  individual's  subjective , evaluation  is  also  of  utmost  importance  j 
what  does  he  experience  visually?  does  he  experience  anomalies  such  , 
as  phosphenes,  floaters  or  photojjhobia?  what  does  he  hope  to  achieve  ! 
through  low  vision  training?  can  he  approximate  his  viaial  field  by  ! 
drawing  it?  During  the  practical  assessment  inconsistency  may  exist  i 
between  verbal  and  observable  behaviour,  ie.  a client  may  claim  he 
has  no  difficulties  on  the  routes  he  travels,  but  on  further  invest-  | 
igation  it  is  found  that  he  no  longer  travels  routes  previously  used. 

The  next  stage  is  to  evaluate  the  ability  to  function  whilst  { 

travelling  a route;  tasks  being  considered  on  the  basis  of  safety  j 

and  efficiency.  Criteria  for  safety  include  the  avoidance  of  col-  | 

lisions,  the  ability  to  detect  vehicles,  estimate  their  approaching 
speed,  and  the  ability  to  cross  roads  competently,  etc.  Criteria  for 
efficiency  include  appropriateness  of  actual  route  walked,  walking 
speed  and  time  spent  on  the  route,  the  ability  to  visually  detect  and 
identify  landmarks,  etc.  The  functional  evaluation  must  also  account  I 

for  stress  levels.  These  can  be  measured  in  various  ways;  ie.  ' 

changes  in  normal  length  of  stride,  preclusion  of  information  nor- 
mally perceived,  etc* 

Assessment  of  mobility  with  optical  aids  is  a further  aspect  of 
the  overall  evaluation  procedure.  One  must  determine  the  nature  of 
the  perceptual  problems  induced  by  the  aid  itself,  the  proficiency  j 

in  the  use  of  the  aid  for  locating  landmarks  and  tracking  moving  1 

objects  and  the  ability  to  adapt  to  changes  in  lighting  conditions. 
Cosmetic  acceptability  of  the  aid  also  needs  to  be  known. 

/ continued  ... 


9 


If  a client  walks  in  cin  erratic  course  during  this  process  it 
may  indicate  a weakness  in  visual  scanning  techniques,  a poor  contrast 
awareness  or  a preoccupation  with  the  immediate  environment.  Objects, 
though  seen,  may  lose  perspective  which  results  in  collisions.  The 
MO  can  establish  which  landmarks  are  consistently  seen  and  how  well 
a traveller  can  negotiate  crowded  areas,  whilst  advising  on  how  best 
to  cope  with  differing  sunlight  conditions.  If  the  function  of  vision 
evaluation  is  a part  of  the  training  course  then  20  hours  appears  to 
be  the  minimum  to  ensure  safety  and  efficiency.  This  should  include 
night  travel  ability  and  skills  in  orientation. 

Use  of  the  blindfold  in  training  has  the  advantage  of  enabling 
the  low  vision  person  to  be  trained  in  totally  blind  techniques, 
especially  appropriate  if  total  loss  of  sight  is  imminent  in  near 
future,  and  permits  client  to  appreciate  and  rely  on  other  sensory 
stimuli.  Non-use  of  the  blindfold  allows  the  client  to  learn  to  use 
his  residual  vision  to  the  maximum.  Blindfolds  should  only  be  used 
with  care  and  discretion.  The  use  of  a cane  for  travel  purposes 
should  be  illustrated  where  needed,  eg.  frequently  required  during 
night  lessons. 

Lesson  plans  in  low  vision  programmes  should  have  four  disting- 
uishing features,  (i)  a section  devoted  to  the  use  of  telescopes,  eye 
shades,  etc.  (ii)  night  lessons,  (iii)  provide  for  visual  clues  and 
landmarks  besides  auditory  and  tactile  ones  and  (iv)  routes  of  travel 
selected  for  visual  content  and  skill  building  requirements. 

Four  interacting  factors  determining  the  visibility  of  the 
environment  are;  (i)  quantity  of  light  available,  (ii)  brightness 
contrast,  (iii)  size  of  objects  to  be  seen,  and,  (iv)  time  span  for 
viewing. 

The  low  vision  person  should  be  made  aware  of  distortions  caused 
by  his  visual  i:>roblem  and  be  trained  to  compensate  for  this  by 
adjusting  physically  and  being  flexible  in  using  his  other  sense 
modalities.  Final  selection  of  the  most  appropriate  optical  aid 
should  come  after  consultation  with  the  client,  MO  and  the  eye 
specialist. 

Useful  principles  to  apply  during  training  with  an  optical  aid 
are  as  follows;  (i)  start  with  3 to  5 minute  period, gradually  increas- 
ing duration,  (ii)  student  stationary  in  a simple  environmentr 
student  to  visually  locate  objects  and  to  develop  vertical  and 
horizontal  scanning  techniques,  (iii)  tracking  moving  targets  - start 
with  a person  moving  slowly  from  a stationary  position  and  moving  in 
a variety  of  directions  to  be  determined  by  the  client,  (iv)  student 
moves  whilst  object  is  stationary  - moves  in  a variety  of  directions 
whilst  fixating  on  the  object,  (v)  initial  travel  experience  can  be 
structured  by  the  MO  - slight  scanning  movement  to  be  encouraged  and 
also  use  of  cane  if  client  so  wishes.  When  turning  best  to  keep  head 
down  and  once  turned,  raise  head  to  clear  path  ahead  from  foot  level. 
Distant  objects  visually  located  can  be  fixated  whilst  client  approaches 
to  the  point  of  contact  - useful  exercise,  espcially  for  negotiating 
such  hazards  as  staircases,  etc.  (vi)  can  then  progress  to  an  outdoor 
setting  repeating  type  of  activities  already  undertaken  and  extending 
skills  to  deal  with  normal  town  and  traffic  conditions.  It  should  be 
borne  in  mind  that  optical  aids  tend  to  increase  nearness  of  objects 
whilst  decreasing  their  speed  if  they  are  moving  - a car  approaching 
at  40  mph  appears  to  be  doing  only  12  mph.  Considerable  amounts  of 
adjustment  need  to  be  learnt. 

Verbalisation^  on  the  part  of  the  client  throughout  the  programme 
provides  excellent  feedback  which  enables  the  MO  to  assess  and  clarify 
much  for  the  client.  In  conclusion,  visual  perception  improves  with 
practice  and  training  and  results  iri‘  much  greater  efficiency  in  visual 
functioning  than  if  only  random  learning  takes  place. 


/ continued  . . . . 


10. 


In  summing  up,  Mr  Ryan  acknowledged  the  points  made  regarding 
establishment  of  links  and  contacts  and  the  need  for  a coordinated 
and  systematic  approach  to  low  vision  training.  Similar  to  the  MOs 
learning  to  use  the  long  cane  under  blindfold,  the  experience  gained 
when  wearing  the  goggles  was  an  extremely  useful  and  enlightening  one. 
Mr  Ryan  said  that  the  comprehensive  contribution  that  the  Apples  had 
given  throughout  this  conference  would  go  far  towards  the  goal  of 
training  people  to  more  effectively  use  their  low  vision  for  mobility 
purposes . . 

Walter  Thornton,  OBE,  on  behalf  of  the  NMC  Advisory  Committee  and 
all  present  at  the  Conference,  thanked  Mr  and  Mrs  Apple  for  their 
very  thorough  presentation  of  information  and  material  on  the  subject 
of  low  vision  training.  Mr  Thornton  went  on  to  thank  the  delegates 
attending  the  Course/Conference  for  the  cooperative  participation 
during  the  practicum,  and  expressed  his  confidence  that  the  results 
coming  from  the  Conference  would  benefit  those  people  with  low  vision. 


Mr  K Klee,  Assistant  Principal,  NMC,  introduced  the  Mobility 
exchange  which  gave  the  opportunity  for  individual  MOs  working  in  the 
field  to  inform  others  of  special  interest  matters  pertaining  to  their 
work.  Before  receiving  contributions,  Mr  Klee  informed  the  Conference 
of  the  followsing 

(i)  BASRAB  ” British  Association  for  Sporting  and  Recreational 
Facilities  of  the  Blind,  was  a new  organisation  which  had  just  been 
constituted.  Its  general  aim  was  to  provide  or  assist  in  the  provision] 
of  facilities  and  leisure  time  activities  for  blind  and  partially- 
sighted  people.  Further  information  could  be  obained  from;  Mr  S C 
Palmer,  Hon  Secretary,  5 Curzon  Road,  Thornton  Heath,  Surrey. 

(ii)  Availability  of  reflective  material  for  recoating  canes. 
Material  could  be  obtained  from  the  Supplies  Department  of  RNIB, 

224  Great  Portland  Street,  London  WIN  6AA^  at  the  cost  of  60p  a 
strip  approximately  36"  by  2h” • The  cane  must  be  thoroughly  cleaned 
down  to  the  bare  metal  before  applying  the  new  material. 

(iii)  Sets  of  simulating  spectacles  (8  in  number)  could  be  obtained 
from;  Beaconsfield  Optical  Company,  Holland  House, Beaconsfield  Road, 
Chiswick,  W4;  for  a cost  of  approximately  £40  per  set.  Each  pair  of 
spectacles  simulated  a different  type  of  defective  vision. 

(iv)  White  soccer  balls  can  be  obtained  from; 


Other  Contributions  Sports  Co  Ltd,  76  & 136 

‘ High  Street,  Harborne,  Birmingham  17 

Patrick  Cave-Browne  Tel;  021*-426  2737, 

An  aid  to  route  memory  which  could  be  used  by  people  who  could 
not  read  Braille  or  use  or  afford  a tape  recorder,  involved  the  use 
of  beads.  By  using  four  different  shapes  of  bead,  route  instructions 
could  be  threaded  onto  a string,  so  that  they  could  be  read  sequen- 
tially and  easily.  Beads  could  be  purchased  from;  Dryads,  or 
Nottingham  Handicraft,  and  were  often  available  at  Craft  Centres. 

rir  Cave-Browne  also  informed  the  Conference  of  the  law  regarding 
the  visibility  of  independent  blind  travellers  in  Europe,  especially 
in  Holland,  whereby  canes  must  be  covered  with  strips  of  fluorescent 
orange  tape.  This  should  be  made  known  to  those  wishing  to  travel 
independently  abroad. 

David  Dann  ' - 

Mr  Dann  informed  the  Conference  of  a poster  campaign  he  initiated 
in  Hackney  with  the  cooperation'  of  the  Local  Authority  Public  Relation 
Department.  The  three  posters  used  graphically  brought  to  the 
attention  of  the  public  the  inconvenience  caused  to  blind  persons  by 
overhanging  foliage,  parked  vehicles  on  the  pavement  and  by  dogs 
fouling  the  pavements.  Posters  could  only  be  made  available  if  a 

/ continued  . . 


11. 


♦ 


minimum  of  9,000  copies  was  ordered.  Mr  Dann  said  that  a campaign 
pack  of  600,  200  copies  of  each  poster,  would  cost  £123,  payable  in 
advance.  If  15  purchasers  could  be  found  then  posters  would  be 
forthcoming.  Those  interested  contact  David  Dann,  MO,  London  Borough 
of  Hackney,  Social  Services  Headquarters,  205  Morning  Lane, 

London  EC9  6LG. 

Robert  Foster 

A booklet  entitled  'It's  nc^  funny  being  Blind',  written  and 
illustrated  by  the  speaker  had  just  been  printed.  Its  purpose  was 
informative  and  educative,  but  Mr  Foster  would  welcome  constructive 
comments  on  its  format,  as  more  would  be  produced  at  a later  date. 

They  could  also  be  obtained  for  a small  fee  from;  Robert  Foster,  MO, 
Strathclyde  Regional  Council,  Social  Services  Department,  65  Forth 
Street,  Ayr,  Scotland. 

Bert  Lowe 

Mr  Lowe  had  produced  a leaflet  for  bus  crews  to  help  them  know 
in  what  ways  they  could  best  assist  visually  handicapped  people  getting 
on  and  off  buses.  Since  he  had  distributed  the  leaflet  to  bus  depots, 
canteens,  etc,  in  his  area  there  had  been  a favourable  response. 
Contact;  Bert  Lowe,  MO,  Family  and  Community  Services  Department, 
Redvers  House,  Union  Street,  Sheffield  SI  2JQ. 

David  Powell 

tir  Powell  mentioned  three  points  - (i)  shoe  chains  for  ice  and 
snow  conditions  could  be  obtained  if  delegates  wrote  to  David  Powell, 
MO,  Hertfordshire  County  Council,  Social  Services  Department, 

Mobility  Section,  9 St  Alban's  Road  East,  Hatfield,  Herts.  Cost 
approximately  £1,50  a set.  (ii)  MOs  needing  assistance  over  a spec- 
ific map  project  could  write  to;  The  Governor,  Leyhill  Open  Prison, 
Wootton -under-Edge,  Glos.,  as  this  type  of  work  was  now  undertaken 
there.  Nottingham  map  kits  could  also  be  obtained  from  the  same 
source.  (iii)  enlargement  of  maps.  If  an  area  to  be  enlarged 
was  indicated  on  a printed  map  and  sent  with  20  exposure  35mm  colour 
slide  film  to  David  Powell,  he  would  photograph  and  produce  a colour 
slide  which  could  be  used  in  a projector.  From  the  projected  image 
a tracing  could  be  made. 

Henry  Shear 

Mr  Shear  informed  the  Conference  of  (i)  the  plasticine  board 
which  is  used  with  string.  Details  of  its  use  and  construction 
could  be  obtained  from;  Henry  Shear,  MO,  Jewish  Blind  Society  Day 
Centre,  Robert  Zimbler  House,  92  Stamford  Hill,  London  N16.  (ii)  a 
nev7  material  now  available  from  Holland  worked  like  Melinex,  except 
that  the  lines  produced  were  three  times  more  pronounced,  and  that 
it  accepted  colour,  which  was  particularly  useful  for  low  vision 
persons.  The  material  could  also  be  used  for  toy  patterns  and  a 
number  of  other  recreational  and  educational  purposes.  The  cost 
of  material,  quantity  to  be  purchased,  plus  address  of  selling 
agency  had  not  yet  been  finalised,  but  would  be  made  known  through  all 
available  channels,  including  NMC,  when  this  information  was  to  hand. 

The  Principal  and  Advisory  Committee  of  the  National  Mobility 
Centre  wish  to  thank  the  American  Foundation  for  the  Blind,  Inc.  for 
enabling  Mr  and  Mrs  Apple  to  travel  to  the  United  Kingdom  for  the 
specific  purpose  of  presenting  the  course  on  Low  Vision  Training. 


KK/MD  (June  1976) 


^ ? U.!--  .v  - !.)0  V ^-.•‘  ".L';'.'i  ' .ilfTl 

-’f'ji.’j  '■■  . vK>i  ' .r:-  x-'-.*! 


= : 1 i.  \j 


r M r ■ A 


: ;..t:r;..r!. 


'i-V'  .^j 


. C‘..;  d 


■y  i .I'O 


n.' 


I ; j::  .'  ; .-L  -f-r.:'-  . J.;  •!. 

. ..'j' ^ i;'’  . i''*  i ^ ‘ -i- ^ 

/ r:-::  JoJ  jirv  a.  -vx j.'.nn’  i 

X- ^ j.;<  i' ;fi  us  r:xx  i’v;>  a j n ■> 

■■  '.'f -*  ' I .*''•  f/. ' I;  GO  ''■  ; If-  '.'i. f-fi 'G  v^.r.'X 

• .i.-v;  ^ o'.-'xXrMbr  -aitX 

• >1-1  f .'  , •!  : •"<  i 


j r-- . 'i.y  y ;v>-  a.;'.  X • .AG!'  t '"I'- ■/...'  .!. 


; .■>'1  X '■  ! -■■;  0 1;!',.  .T'..;X  A ,,J;.  •■  .1  . LH'Ai  01 

' ■ ■ . •'  ...  '^J  i.  fj.:!;-'' V -f  'Zy/.y.-‘  xx 

.'O:-  .:  .■.-x-.o,';  ...;j  J. o Ly-r'.  j'\  o. .zoHUi  ;;io  '•o:;  uo 

■,n.:..„  .-.yj  ,o:-G-' G 'vr;.,  :;  .v..G,i  XXX  ai.;:  ru  .xvg  , GiTooxn." d 

■ 1''  'I!','':"  0 ' .,  IV.'-GiL  J "I  ■y.'*.<  X 


t*.  ..  -J  ■ 


{ •’  0 ‘.70 '7  ' ; i'fy  'l 


■-  ■». 
.1  . ..  ; 

■ { : 


I 


■ ilL.  -■,  ..  ■ ; ;gi  . 7 ••  •;;  •■.O.:  .--  ■.  J.  ’ 

: .1. 1 1-! I ■*.  •'  > -j  ■J' 'v;f ,!  ■ rf'  '^A  ■ ..  it  Axifac  .1  '.i  f ..'  ou.'  Ax  .n/.  o 

. : 7 r.'’‘70  1' . .V'  :•  xu y:'  ‘jfi'i'J  ;:.'X.;.  r •:  ■■’  ‘'..X.; 

j , ■’.'f  X ;.H  . i ’i;,"* 'Gi  ,,.7'yr.y.’  I.  , c irxo  .!,;i  Jci  "Oxc 

•',  -fel  X X..'  . .'  . .^.0  . . /Xl...  ..  O-;  < o.-  ■ ^x.tl  • • . 1.-  ■■  


iXk:.!  ...i.iV'-'vJ 

rr;-  XVl.-.O 


! 


- 

^ ’•  *r  j 


xvrrx;  :x  .x  :v  ■ aifki  xx  - - x o!:>  , Gp-.. -.x :/  "■  ■ 

;'y  .-  'ly  ''.r-X-x:  ‘‘I- i ;X..iX.  ',  J '□  aJ'XX  , XJX  JHlOJi:  ...'X:  i .-X 

r f , r . -rr:  xxG  O’-  :!;■:  ■/  :^M..-'  i'  jii.o  r XV-  .••f.’D'u  r TX ; 1 . r:vx*ii.  ..ii 

! .y;;  . Xjj.^  X 'X  ^w...;  ; . -X  , '..li.'X-X'  ..■  i i J ' - .''i  ■ >X  XX.  i . Gr^ri.G 

-.oo.,  x.'  vxi  -.ii..:  xo.-;  X.  , ....  x rxr  s.'  do‘ : ■ g tie 

."  ii''  o - o 


'ix.G'!.  V:ix  ,H 


gTX..  .; 


: \\  X '.  0 X r i 1 , V xx  g fii'  ,;x  ..xg'I  "t.’^ 

.^.  ■ . . . y.  xxv';-xr  , c X.lxf-t.y^  X:a.f  X'.  ' li.Xix  . • ^ 0 O'  Of 

. ..  . xxix  :■.>'■•  '.'Xl  ! X'-Gilir  \-:'x.xi 


• -V  ‘ . ; t r ; . ^ ; t,  J-  . ZJ 

■/j?.  C'/  ,,181/'  fi  X .i.-iiiix  riuX'Gfi  rij-Jy^yy/-) 

1 ■■•'i  xo”:x  -x.j. ; f"  iir'J’X  '■  .r  .;  ,xi.'TG.- . xon 

..•X;X''.  x.  X.  •. '"I '■'•  1 x.ii :..  .y'.j  'OXi ‘.-‘.v  i.vyxo''.  f ; ?, 

i ' 'v ixSsxx  Xf  xr:i::r  : S'  g Jxxax  yn.  I...7  x;-x  jj: 

■ . 7 .;  .t  . X ;• 


. ,.  -■  ...  , I • - 1 ■!  ; ..•! 


;.y..}  . 


f : r>  x:;^*I  . : 

*;  !*■*■■  _i  1'  * C*  • V’  - , 1*  *. . . ■ i i‘  X O' •*  ' !0  J-  X t i.J  ' lx-  ^ v^a-4 

;X;X  cx.'i'x  ■;  f' .. aix’i:; ,ux.i  C' '■  p -,1  j.x 

oJ  iiii/'  G :):j  i ..i  '.cix!  xi;  ' xx;-  . . -V 

r:l  , ?i.;i  ■;  .ri:>  i’.ii  .;x'.5. xve 


:n/  -iXl..' 


t - ' ‘..t 


r : 


,,■  'X  v\  XT' 


r X ' j!  -t . ■ i 


I . '0  u ../XX  . 

;i.{  .x':>  T ; f.'.'X  );X.  ■ M!  xxir.ii  :X'.:; 

’■  oOX.G-;  '.G.rxtux  •.Mv  ! ■■'''  ' -f  G.!  ' ' 

" xV  at  ,G.  .X  jrx/x*--  t.i  t xf.;.G-  -X GO.. 


X xx-lT 

■ t .x  :.>  .£  v;  :.3  n .■ .’ 1 

X-  ' : :■!■■ 


r;.  fiJ 


11V1946 

An73  AiraUAL  COURSE/ CONFERENCE 


AMERICAN  FOUNDATION  FOR  THE  BUND 
15  WEST  16tft  STREET 

N£W  yoRB,  ft  y.  10011 


•'  % 


