NOVEMBER  1980    Volume  5.  Number  11    $2.50  in  USA/$2.95  in  Canada     t 


Hieutush* 


A  MCGRAW-HILL  PUBLICATION 


the  small  systems  journal 


K^^ 


0 

S. 


H^^^B! 


HIGH-RE 


WHAT  ARE  YOU  LOOKING  FOR  IN  A  SYSTEM? 

VERSATILITY     —  Data  bus— motherboard  design  allows  you  to  configure  a  system  to  the  end  users  exact  needs. 

EXPANDABLE    —  Minimum  RAM  capacity  56K  Expandable  to  768K.  Two  I/O  ports  —  Expandable  to  seventeen. 

MASS  STORAGE-  3.0  M/bytes  on  5%"  flexible  disks.  (4  drives)  5.0  M/bytes  on  8  inch  flexible  disks-(4  drives) 

40  M/bytes  on  "Winchester"  fixed  disk. 

SOFTWARE         —  Operating  System  —  Multitasking,  multiuser  with  memory  management. 

Languages  -  FORTRAN,  Pascal,  BASIC,  PILOT 
Utilities  —  Debug,  Sort-Merge,  Diagnostics  —  over  40  others. 
I  Data  Processing  —  General  Ledger,  Receivables,  Payables,  Payroll,  Jobcost,  Mail  List, 

Inventory,  Record  Management  System. 
Word  Processing  —  Text  Editor  and  Processor  —  device  independent  with  proportional  spacing 
bidirectional  printing. 

COST  EFFECTIVE— System  consisting  of  128K  processor,  terminal,  and  2.4  M/byte  dual  eight-inch  disk  drives  — 

less  than  $6,000.00  (O.E.M.  100  quantity) 

SOUTHWEST  TECHNICAL  PRODUCTS  CORPORATION 

219  W.  Rhapsody 

San  Antonio,  Texas  78216  (512)  344-0241 


o 


Management  Information  Display 


Ultrasonic  heart  sector  scan 


High-resolution  display  with  alphanumeric* 


Get  the  professional  color 

display  that  has 
BASIC/FORTRAN  simplicity 


LOW-PRICED,  TOO 

Here's  a  color  display  that  has 
everything:  professional-level  resolution, 
enormous  color  range,  easy  software, 
NTSC  conformance,  and  low  price. 

Basically,  this  new  Cromemco  Model 
SDI*  is  a  two-board  interface  that  plugs 
into  any  Cromemco  computer. 

The  SDI  then  maps  computer  display 
memory  content  onto  a  convenient  color 
monitor  to  give  high-quality,  high- 
resolution  displays  (756  H  x  482  V  pixels). 

When  we  say  the  SDI  results  in  a  high- 
quality  professional  display,  we  mean  you 
can't  get  higher  resolution  than  this 
system  offers  in  an  NTSC-conforming 
display. 

The  resolution  surpasses  that  of  a  color 
TV  picture. 

BASIC/FORTRAN  programming 

Besides  its  high  resolution  and  low 
price,  the  new  SDI  lets  you  control  with 
optional  Cromemco  software  packages 
that  use  simple  BASIC-  and  FORTRAN- 
like  commands. 

Pick  any  of  16  colors  (from  a 
4096-color  palette)  with  instructions  like 
DEFCLR  (c,  R,  G,  B).  Or  obtain  a  circle  of 
specified  size,  location,  and  color  with 
XCIRC  (x,  y,  r,  c). 


Pat.  No.  4121283 


Model  SDI  High-Resolution  Color 
Craphics  Interface 


HIGH  RESOLUTION 

The  SDI's  high  resolution  gives  a 
professional-quality  display  that  strictly 
meets  NTSC  requirements.  You  get  756 
pixels  on  every  visible  line  of  the  NTSC 
standard  display  of  482  image  lines.  Ver- 
tical line  spacing  is  1  pixel. 

To  achieve  the  high-quality  display,  a 
separate  output  signal  is  produced  for 
each  of  the  three  component  colors  (red, 
green,  blue).  This  yields  a  sharper  image 
than  is  possible  using  an  NTSC-composite 
video  signal  and  color  TV  set.  Full  image 
quality  is  readily  realized  with  our  high- 
quality  RGB  Monitor  or  any  conventional 
red/green/blue  monitor  common  in  TV 
work. 


Model  SDI  plugs  into  Z-2H  11-ntegabyte 

hard  disk  computer  or  any  Cromemco 

computer 

DISPLAY  MEMORY 

Along  with  the  SDI  we  also  offer  an 
optional  fast  and  novel  two-port  memory 
that  gives  independent  high-speed  access 
to  the  computer  memory.  The  two-port 
memory  stores  one  full  display,  permit- 
ting fast  computer  operation  even  during 
display. 

CONTACT  YOUR  REP  NOW 

The  Model  SDI  has  been  used  in  scien- 
tific work,  engineering,  business,  TV, 
color  graphics,  and  other  areas.  It's  a 
good  example  of  how  Cromemco  keeps 
computers  in  the  field  up  to  date,  since  it 
turns  any  Cromemco  computer  into  an 
up-to-date  color  display  computer. 

The  SDI  has  still  more  features  that 
you  should  be  informed  about.  So  contact 
your  Cromemco  representative  now  and 
see  all  that  the  SDI  will  do  for  you. 


Circle  1  on  Inquiry  card. 


rjj  Cromemco 


incorporated 

280  BERNARDO  AVE,  MOUNTAIN  VIEW,  CA  94040  •  (415)964-7400 


Tomorrow's  computers  today 


BYTE  November  1980 


Here's  the  state  of  the  art 
in  low-cost  hard-disk  computers 


11  MEGABYTES 

OF 

FAST  HARD-DISK  STORAGE 

Yes,  the  Cromemco  Model  Z-2H 
is  in  a  class  by  itself  in  the  computer 
field. 

These  Z-2H  features  tell  you  why: 

•  1 1  megabytes  of  hard-disk 
storage 

64  kilobytes  of  fast  RAM 
Two  dual-sided  floppy  disk 
drives 

Z-80A  type  processor 
Fast  4  MHz  operation — 150 
nanosecond  access  time 

•  Fast  hard-disk  transfer  rate  of 
5.6  megabits/second 

•  Low  cost 

And  that's  not  all  you  get.  Not 
nearly. 

BROAD 

SOFTWARE  SUPPORT 

You  also  get  Cromemco  software 
support — the  broadest  software  sup- 


port  in  the  microcomputer  field.  Soft- 
ware that  Cromemco  is  known  for. 
Like  this: 

•  Structured  BASIC 

•  FORTRAN  IV 

•  RATFOR  (RATional  FORtran) 

•  COBOL 

•  Z-80  Macro  Assembler 

•  Word  Processing  System 

•  Data  Base  Management 
And  more  all  the  time. 

FIELD  PROVEN 

The  Z-2H  is  clearly  in  a  class  by  it- 
self. We  introduced  it  last  summer. 
It's  field  proven.  It's  reliable. 

And  it's  rugged.  Housed  in  a  sturdy, 
all-metal  cabinet. 

EASILY  EXPANDABLE 

As  always  with  Cromemco,  you  get 
expandability.  The  fast  64K  RAM  in 
this  Model  Z-2H  can  be  expanded  to 
512  kilobytes.  That  amount  of  RAM 
combined  with  11  megabytes  of  hard- 
disk  storage  gives  you  enormous 


computer  power — the  equal  or  even 
beyond  what  much  larger  computers 
sometimes  offer. 

What's  more,  this  computer  gives 
you  a  12-slot  card  cage.  That's  to  plug 
in  your  special  circuits  as  well  as 
additional  RAM  and  interface  cards. 

This  expandability  is  supported  by 
still  more  Cromemco  value  —  the 
Z-2H's  heavy-duty  power  supply  that 
gives  you  30A  at  8V  and  15A  at  ±18V 
to  support  plug-ins. 

LOW  COST  —  SEE  IT  NOW 

The  Z-2H  is  real.  It's  been  in  the 
field  for  many  months.  It's  proven 
itself. 

You  should  see  the  Z-2H  now.  Con- 
tact a  Cromemco  representative  and 
arrange  for  a  demo.  Learn  that  Cro- 
memco is  a  survey-winner  for  reli- 
ability. 

And  learn  that  the  Z-2H  is  under 
$10K. 

In  the  long  run  it  always  pays  to 
get  the  best. 


ra 


Cromemco 


W^^^M     280  BERNARDO  AVE.,  MOUNTAIN  VIEW,  CA  94040  •   (415)964-7400 

^^^^   Tomorrow's  computers  today 


Circle  1  on  Inquiry  card. 


Page  22 


I 


FDR  SIDEWAYS 
BflLLYDID  VIDEO 


Page  90 


Page  158 


Page  172 


In  The  Queue 


BIT!  November  1980 
Volume  5,  Number  11 


Foreground 


32  HOME  IN  ON  THE  RANGE!  AN  ULTRASONIC  RANGING  SYSTEM 

by  Steve  Garcia 

Combine  automatic  sonar  ranging  and  infrared-light  detection  in  a  computer-controlled  scanner. 

64  MICROGRAPH,  PART  1:  DEVELOPING  AN  INSTRUCTION  SET  FOR  A 
RASTER-SCAN  DISPLAY  by  E  Grady  Booch 

Micrograph  is  an  intelligent,  low-cost,  color-graphics  terminal  that  interfaces  to  any  microcomputer 
and  standard,  unmodified  color  television  receiver. 

126  GRAPHIC  COLOR  SLIDES,  PART  1  by  Alan  W  Grogono 

The  first  of  this  two-part  article  gives  a  series  of  useful  subroutines  for  generating  color  images  on  a 

Compucolor  II. 

148  THREE-DIMENSIONAL  GRAPHICS  FOR  THE  APPLE  II  by  Dan  Sokol  and  John 

Shepard 

With  this  popular  computer,  use  a  two-color  scheme  to  generate  three-dimensional  figures. 

296  A  GENERAL  INTERPOLATING  GRAPHICS  PACKAGE  FOR  THE  TRS-80  by  D  K 

Cohen  and  Devon  Crowe 

Interpolate  between  points  of  a  graphed  function  and  three-dimensional  figures. 

340  AN  8088  PROCESSOR  FOR  THE  S-100  BUS,  PART  3 

by  Thomas  Woodward  Cantrell 

This  monitor  program  takes  advantage  of  some  powerful  software  and  architectural  aspects  of  the 

8088  processor. 


Background 


22  THE  FUTURE  OF  COMPUTER  GRAPHICS  by  Bruce  Eric  Brown  and  Stephen 
Levine 
Take  a  look  at  the  future  of  graphics  hardware  and  applications. 

90  LANGUAGE  CONTROL  STRUCTURES  FOR  EASY  ELECTRONIC  VISUALIZA- 
TION by  Dr  Thomas  DeFanti 
Zgrass,  a  hybrid  of  language  and  hardware,  can  be  used  to  solve  graphic-display  problems. 

180  A  SIMPLIFIED  THEORY  OF  VIDEO  GRAPHICS,  PART  1 

by  Allen  Watson  III 

Part  1  covers  the  principles  of  television  and  computer-generated  graphics. 

206  GETTING  TO  KNOW  YOUR  MONITOR  by  Ron  Dalpiaz 

Meet  the  most  frequently  used  human /computer  interface  —  the  video  terminal. 

220  DIGITAL  STORAGE  OF  IMAGES  by  Thomas  Williams 

Theory  and  practice  of  digital-image  capture  and  storage  are  explained  in  detail. 

244  MACHINE  PROBLEM  SOLVING,  PART  3:  THE  ALPHA-BETA 
PROCEDURE  by  Peter  Frey 

In  the  conclusion  of  this  series,  we  discover  how  searching  for  information  stored  in  tree  structures 
can  be  made  more  efficient. 

361  ADD  MACRO  EXPANSION  TO  YOUR  MICROCOMPUTER,  PART  2 

by  David  C  Brown 

Notes  on  implementation  and  options  are  presented  in  this  final  part. 


Nucleus 


6   Editorial 

172    SIGGRAPH  Convention  Report 

16  Letters 

240   BYTELINES 

62,  86  Technical  Forum 

266   Ask  BYTE 

108   Book  Reviews 

314    Event  Queue 

112,  114,  292,  322  BYTE's  Bugs 

343    Tom  Sloan  Cartoon 

114   Books  Received 

372   What's  New? 

116,  145  Programming  Quickies 

430   Unclassified  Ads 

119  BYTE's  Bits 

431    BOMB  Results 

147  Clubs  and  Newsletters 

431    BOMB 

158,  190,  196  Product  Reviews 

432    Reader  Service 

November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  lnc 


Publishers 
Virginia  Londoner, 
Gordon  R  Williamson 
Associate  Publisher 
John  E  Hayes 
Assistant 
Cheryl  A  Hurd 

Founding  Editor 

Carl  T  Helmers  Jr 

Edltor-ln-Chlef 

Christopher  P  Morgan 

Editors 

Richard  S  Shuford,  Gregg  Williams, 

Curtis  P  Feigel,  Harold  Nelson 

Stan  Miastkowski 

Consulting  Editor 

Mark  Dahmke 

Book  Editor 

Bruce  A  Roberts 

Chief  Copy  Editor 

David  W  Hayward 

Copy  Editors 

Faith  Hanson,  Warren  Williamson, 

Robin  M  Moss,  Anthony  J  Lockwood 

Assistant  to  the  Editors 

Faith  Ferry 

Assistants 

Debe  Wheeler,  Karen  A  Cilley 

New  Products  Editor 

Clubs,  Newsletters 

Charles  Freiberg 

Drafting 

Jon  Swanson 

Production  Director 

Nancy  Estle 

Assistant  Production  Director 

Christine  Dixon 

Production/Advertising  Coordinator 

Wai  Chiu  Li 

Production  Art 

Holly  Carmen  LaBossiere, 

Deborah  Porter 

Chief  Typographer 

Sherry  McCarthy 

Typographers 

Debi  Fredericks,  Donna  Sweeney 

Advertising  Director 

Thomas  Harvey 
Assistants 

Ruth  M  Walsh,  Ms.  Marion  Gagnon 
Barbara  J  Greene,  Rob  Hannings 

Special  Projects  Coordinator 

Jill  ECallihan 
Marketing  Coordinator 
Laura  A  Hanson 

Circulation  Manager 

Gregory  Spitzfaden 

Assistants 

Agnes  E  Perry,  Melanie  Bertoni, 

Barbara  Varnum,  Louise  Menegus, 

Andrew  Jackson 

Dealer  Sales 

Thomas  Yanni 

Controller 

Daniel  Rodrigues 

Assistant 

Mary  E  Fluhr 

Accounts  Receivable  Specialist 

Karen  Burgess 

Accounts  Receivable  Assistant 

Jeanne  Cilley 

Receptionist 

Jacqueline  Earnshaw 
Traffic  Department 
Mark  Sandagata 


In  This  Issue 


The  cover  for  this  issue  of  BYTE  is  a  still  from  j 
90-minute  computer-animated  cartoon  called  The 
Works.  The  photo  was  provided  by  Dick  Lundin 
and  Lance  Williams  and  is  constructed  from  quadrtc 
surfaces  and  polygons,  using  texture-mapping  and 
normal-perturbation  techniques.  The  background 
was  painted  by  Paul  Xanter-  programming  credit 
also  goes  to  Tom  Duff  and  Duane  Palyka.  A  trailer 
of  The  Works  was  shown  at  SICCRAPH  '80  (page 
172),  although  the  film  itself  may  not  be  finished  for 
another  two  years. 

A  number  of  the  articles  for  this  month's  theme 
were  solicited  with  the  help  of  Jay  Nickson  and  Ken 
Lodding;  their  editorial  begins  on  page  6.  Both  are 
employed  by  DEC  (Digital  Equipment 
Corporation):  Jay  is  the  manager  of  the  human  in- 
terface program  for  simplifying  man  /machine  com- 
munications. Ken  is  a  senior  software  engineer 
whose  long-term  interests  intermix  art  and  computer 
graphics. 


Publisher's  Note 

As  most  readers  will  have  observed,  the  September  Filth  anniversary  issue  marked  the  beginning  of  a 
new  phase  for  BYTE.  The  jump  from  a  300-page  to  a  400-page  issue  means  a  33%  increase  in  the  material 
presented  to  our  readers  each  month. 

Because  advertisements  tend  to  be  more  visible  than  editorial  content  (especially  in  a  technical 
journal),  some  readers  may  suspect  that  the  larger  issues  mean  merely  more  ads.  But,  in  fact,  the  larger 
issues  have  approximately  one  third  more  editorial  content.  The  new  size  does  create  design  and 
manufacturing  problems,  however.  The  solution  to  these  problems  includes  a  redesign  of  the  editorial 
pages  of  BYTE  to  make  the  editorial  content  easier  to  find  and  use.  We  expect  the  new  format  to  be  im- 
plemented early  in  1981. 

We  are  confident  that  the  increased  editorial  content  and  new  format  will  make  BYTE  even  more  of  a 
bargain  as  well  as  a  more  useful  tool  for  our  readers.  And  that,  after  all,  is  what  it's  all  about. 

Virginia  Londoner 
Publisher 


Officers  of  McGraw-Hill  Publications  Company:  Paul  F  McPherson,  President;  Executive  Vice  Presidents:  James  E  Boddorf, 
Gene  W  Simpson;  Group  Vice  President:  Daniel  A  McMillan;  Senior  Vice  President-Editorial:  Ralph  R  Schulz;  Vice  Presidents: 
Kemp  Anderson,  Business  Systems  Development;  Stephen  C  Croft,  Manufacturing;  Robert  B  Doll,  Circulation;  James  E 
Hackett,  Controller;  William  M  Hammond,  Communications;  Eric  B  Herr,  Planning  and  Development;  John  W  Patten,  Sales; 
Edward  E  Schirmer,  International. 

Officers  of  the  Corporation:  Harold  W  McGraw  Jr,  President,  Chief  Executive  Officer  and  Chairman  of  the  Board;  Robert  F 
Landes,  Senior  Vice  President  and  Secretary;  Ralph  J  Webb,  Treasurer. 

BYTE  is  published  monthly  by  BYTE  Publications  Inc,  70  Main  St,  Peterborough  NH  03458,  a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of  McGraw- 
Hill,  Inc.  Address  all  mail  except  subscriptions  to  above  address:  phone  (603)  924-9281-  Address  subscriptions,  change  of  address, 
USPS  Form  3579,  and  fulfillment  questions  to  BYTE  Subscriptions.  PO  Box  590,  Martinsville  NJ  08836.  Controlled  circulation  postage 
paid  at  Waseca,  Minnesota  56093  -  USPS  Publication  No.  528890  (ISSN  0360-5280).  Canadian  second  class  registration  number  9321. 
Subscriptions  are  $18  for  one  year,  $32  for  two  years,  and  $46  for  three  years  in  the  USA  and  its  possessions.  In  Canada  and  Mexico, 
$20  for  one  year,  $36  for  two  years,  $52  for  three  years.  $32  for  one  year  air  delivery  to  Europe.  $32  surface  delivery  elsewhere.  Air 
delivery  to  selected  areas  at  additional  rates  upon  request.  Single  copy  price  is  $2.50  in  the  USA  and  its  possessions.  $2.95  in  Canada 
and  Mexico,  $4.00  in  Europe,  and  $4.50  elsewhere.  Foreign  subscriptions  and  sales  should  be  remitted  in  United  States  funds  drawn  on 
a  US  bank.  Printed  in  United  States  of  America. 

Address  all  editorial  correspondence  to  the  editor  at  the  above  address.  Unacceptable  manuscripts  will  be  returned  if  accompanied 
by  sufficient  first  class  postage.  Not  responsible  for  lost  manuscripts  or  photos.  Opinions  expressed  by  the  authors  are  not  necessarily 
those  of  BYTE.  Entire  contents  copyright  •  1980  by  BYTE  Publications  Inc.  All  rights  reserved.  Where  necessary,  permission  is  granted 
by  the  copyright  owner  for  libraries  and  others  registered  with  the  Copyright  Clearance  Center  (CCC)  to  photocopy  any  article  herein  for 
the  base  fee  of  $1 .00  per  copy  of  the  article  or  item  plus  25  cents  per  page.  Payment  should  be  sent  directly  to  the  CCC.  21  Congress 
St..  Salem,  MA  01970.  Copying  done  for  other  than  personal  or  internal  reference  use  without  the  permission  of  McGraw-Hill  is  pro- 
hibited. Requests  for  special  permission  or  bulk  orders  should  be  addressed  to  the  publisher.  Member 

BYTE®    is  available  in  microform  from  University  Microfilms  International.  300  N  Zeeb  Rd.  Dept  PR,  Ann  Arbor  Ml 
48106  USA  or  18  Bedford  Row.  Dept  PR.  London  WC1R  4EJ  England. 

Subscription  WATS  Line:  (800)  258-5485 


Audit  Bureau 
of  Circulations 


Office  hours:  Mon-Thur  8:30  AM  -  4:30  PM,  Friday  8:30  AM  -  Noon,  Eastern  Time 


NATIONAL  ADVERTISING  SALES  REPRESENTATIVES: 


NORTHEAST  (617)  444-3946 

Hajar  Associates 
280  Hillside  Ave. 
Needham  Heights  MA  02194 


MIDWEST  (312)  864-3467 

Hajar  Associates 
2405  Lawndale 
Evanston  IL  60201 


EAST  &  SOUTH  (212)  682-5844 

Hajar  Associates 
521  Fifth  Ave. 
New  York  NY  10017 


SOUTHWEST  (714)  540-3554 
NORTHWEST  (415)  964-0706 
Hajar  Associates 
1000  Elwell  Ct.,  Suite  227 
Palo  Alto  CA  94303 


November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  2  on  inquiry  card. 


MOOANGELO 

HIGH  RESOLUTION  GRAPHICS  SINGLE  BOARD  COMPUTER 


by 

SCION 

CORPORATION 


RS-170  com- 
posite or  direct 
drive  output 

Local  or 
external  sync 
generation 

4  or  5  Mhz 
Z80  micro- 
processor 

60  hertz  real 
time  clock 

8  level 
interrupt  tie-in 

IEEE  S100  bus 
compatible 

Screenware™  Pak  I 

A  4K  byte  operating  system  resident  in  PROM 
on  MicroAngelo™  Pak  I  emulates  an  85  char- 
acter by  40  line  graphics  terminal  and  provides 
over  40  graphics  commands.  Provisions  exist 
for  user-defined  character  sets  and  directly 
callable  user  extensions  to  Screenware  Pak  I. 

SCION  Corporation 

8455-D  Tyco  Road 

Vienna,  Va.  22180 

(703)  827-0888 


Light  pen 
interface 

Time  multi- 
plexed refresh 

4K  resident 
Screenware™ 
Pak  I  operating 
system 

32KRAM 
isolated  from 
host  address 
space 

High  speed 
communica- 
tions over 
parallel  bus 
ports 


Host  Resident  Terminal  Software 

An  interface  software  package  that  coordi- 
nates input/output  from  the  MicroAngelo™ 
graphics  board,  the  MicroAngelo™  keyboard, 
and  your  computer.  The  result  is  a  flexible, 
yet  sophisticated  graphics  terminal. 

European  Distributor: 
Micro  Diversions  UK  Ltd. 

17/19  Mesnes  Street 

Wigan,  England  WN1  1QP 

09-423  4311 


Circle  3  on  Inquiry  card. 


Have  some 

great 
memories. 


151  Ed 


16K  PROM  boards. 

■  PROM  card  has  2708-type  memory 

■  Quality  board  construction  ■  0-4  wait  states 

■  Address  any  4K  group  to  any  4K  boundary 

■  Control  up  to  8  banks  of  memory  ■  Fully 
assembled  and  tested  ■  PRICE— $300 

(California  residents  add  6%  sales  iax) 

Expandable  5  MHz  RAM  boards. 

8— 32K  expandable  RAM  board  uses  TI  4044 
memory  runs  at  5MHz  ■  Fast  250  ns  access 
time  ■  Bank  select  ■  Address  any  4K  block  to 
any  4K  boundary  ■  Quality  board  construction 

PRICE— 8K— $175-,  16K— $315;  24K— $475; 
32K— $620;  8K  add-on  kits— $135 

(California  residents  add  6%  sales  tax) 

Call  or  write  Artec  for  details 


^RTGCGLeCTROMiaihC. 

605  Old  County  Rd.,  San  Carlos,  CA  94070 
Telephone  (415)  592-2740 


Editorial 


The  World  of 
Computer  Graphics 


Guest  Editorial  by  Ken  Lodding  and  Jay  Nickson 

Man  is  a  visual  animal.  He  surrounds  himself  with  graphic  images.  Images 
are  employed  to  convey  information,  to  explain  concepts,  and  to  com- 
municate feelings.  The  ability  to  draw  is  instinctive.  It  materializes  in  infants 
soon  after  the  start  of  verbal  development,  perhaps  to  complement  the  slowly 
developing  verbal  skills.  Although  the  ability  to  draw  tends  not  to  become  as 
fully  developed  as  verbal  skills,  images  continue  to  provide  much  of  the  adult 
human  communications  ability.  Pictures  are  a  primary  information-carrying 
channel:  the  histogram  accompanying  a  financial  article,  the  plot  of  a 
mathematical  function,  and  the  illustrations  in  BYTE  are  but  a  few  examples. 

The  importance  of  graphics  for  conveying  information  arises  from  the 
nature  of  man's  visual  system.  The  eye  provides  an  extremely  high-bandwidth 
information  channel  for  transferring  the  data  to  be  processed  by  the  brain's  op- 
tic center.  The  importance  of  this  channel  can  be  seen  from  the  redundancy 
built  into  the  system  and  from  the  distribution  of  optic  nerve  fibers  in  the 
brain.  It  is  believed  that  no  less  than  six  different  brain  sites  are  directly  ser- 
viced by  connecting  optic  nerve  fibers.  (See  reference  4.)  The  fundamental  im- 
portance of  visual  information  is  reflected  in  the  old  adage,  "seeing  is  believ- 
ing," and  in  the  observation  that  understand  is  one  of  the  synonyms  of  the 
word  see.  Text  fails  to  use  our  native  abilities  to  comprehend  information  fully 
because  it  presents  data  in  a  linear,  sequential  fashion.  Contrast  this  with 
graphical  images,  which  can  be  processed  in  a  single  viewing — a  phenomenon 
called  preattentive  perception.  (See  reference  6.) 

The  computer  has  become  a  primary  source  or  conveyor  of  information,  yet 
the  main  interface  between  man  and  machine  has  remained  the  serially 
oriented  text  display.  The  net  result  is  that,  as  the  volume  of  data  available  to 
be  presented  increases,  the  user's  communication  channel  becomes  swamped 
with  an  avalanche  of  text  output.  The  volume  of  this  avalanche  far  too  often 
restricts  the  comprehension  of  the  information.  The  information  is  obscured  as 
effectively  as  if  it  had  been  encrypted.  The  spectacle  of  the  computer  user 
literally  buried  under  reams  of  printed  output  has  ceased  to  be  an  amusing  car- 
toon and  has  become  a  nightmare  for  too  many.  To  cope  with  the  flood  of  in- 
formation, the  computer  user  is  turning  to  graphics. 

The  information-transfer  rate  of  a  graph  can  be  many  orders  of  magnitude 
greater  than  an  equivalent  text  presentation.  Conceptually,  a  graph  has  greater 
information  density  than  a  table.  Compare  the  plot  of  a  sine  curve  with  a  table 
of  sine  values.  Each  value  within  the  table  corresponds  to  a  specific  point  on 
the  graph.  However,  the  plot  displays  a  far  greater  number  of  points  than 
could  the  most  extended  table.  A  high  information-transfer  rate  results  from 
the  greater  data  density  and  the  faster  operation  of  the  human  mind  and  visual 
system.  Patterns,  periodic  functions,  trends,  and  comparisons  can  often  be  ob- 
tained "by  inspection"  of  a  graph,  while  understanding  a  tabular  display  re- 
quires much  more  time  and  effort.  This  is  not,  however,  accomplished  without 
a  cost.  The  only  penalty  paid  for  speed  is  the  loss  of  precision:  a  graph  cannot 
be  read  to  the  same  number  of  significant  digits  as  can  be  obtained  from  a 
table.  This  loss  of  precision  is  not  a  problem,  as  the  specific  data  value  of  in- 
terest can  be  extracted  from  the  function  or  table  of  data  used  to  generate  the 
plot  initially. 

About  the  Authors 

Ken  Lodding  and  Jay  Nickson  are  employed  by  the  Digital  Equipment  Corporation  in  Mer- 
rimack, New  Hampshire. 


November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Mlcrocompi  g£ 


usrao 


smLVszsu 


y 


For  reliable  data  storage, 
I  recommend  systems  with 

Shugart  disk  drives'. 


!9w    Tom  Knight,  President— 

Nycom,  Los  Altos,  California 


"The  last  thing  you  need  when  you  put 
your  personal  computer  or  small  business 
system  to  work  is  a  disk  drive  that  you 
can't  rely  on.  If  the  drive  quits,  your 
system  is  out  of  business!' 

Thats  why  more  and  more  manu- 
facturers and  dealers  depend  on  Shugart 
disk  drives  for  reliable  data  storage.  These 
professionals  don't  want  disk  drive  prob- 
lems any  more  than  you  do.  Shugart  has  a 


large  family  of  drives,  too— in  all  sizes  and 
capacities  to  suit  your  system  storage 
needs.  For  the  smaller  system,  the  original 
5'/4-inch  Minifloppy '"  stores  250  to  500 
kilobytes  (single  or  double-sided)— mats 
about  50  to  100  pages  of  printed  material. 
Our  single  and  double-sided  8-inch 
floppys  store  800  to  1600  kilobytes.  And 
for  systems  that  need  a  larger  data  base, 
our  8-inch  or  14-inch  fixed  disk  drives 


store  from  5  to  58  megabytes.  No  other 
manufacturer  offers  such  a  wide  variety  of 
disk  storage  for  personal  computer  and 
small  business  systems. 

Word  processing,  general  business, 
accounting— big  system  or  small,  you  can 
rely  on  Shugart  drives.  We're  known  as  the 
Headstrong  company  for  good  reason. 
We're  Headstrong  about  reliability,  quality, 
and  value.  Ask  your  dealer.  He  knows  us. 


TM— Minifloppy  is  a  trademark  of  Shugart  Associates. 


Rely  on  the 
Headstrong  Company. 

^.Shugart 

475  Oakmead  Parkway,  Sunnyvale,  California  94086 


In  addition  to  presenting  data  in  a  rapid,  meaningful 
fashion,  an  important  benefit  of  computer  graphics  is  the 
ability  to  present  images  realistically.  Plotting  a 
topological  surface,  modeling  DNA,  creating  an  architec- 
tural rendering,  and  simulating  a  pilot's  view  from  the 
cockpit  of  an  aircraft  are  all  enhanced  by  presenting  the 
image  in  a  manner  which  gives  the  viewer  a  sense  that  the 
picture  is  not  an  illusion.  To  achieve  greater  realism,  a 
prime  factor  is  to  provide  the  illusion  of  depth.  Perspec- 
tive, hidden-line  removal,  shading,  and  highlighting  all 
provide  depth  cues  to  the  viewer.  This  month's  com- 
puter-generated cover  by  Lance  Williams  of  the  New 
York  Institute  of  Technology  clearly  illustrates  the  cur- 
rent state  of  the  art  as  applied  to  an  artistic  endeavor.  The 
same  techniques  are  available  and  can  be  employed  when 
graphically  representing  numeric  data. 

Three-Dimensional  Graphics 

To  provide  the  illusion  of  depth,  a  three-dimensional 
model  can  be  defined.  Establishing  the  viewer's  geometric 
relationship  to  the  model  and  following  the  rules  of 
perspective,  the  model  image  is  mathematically  projected 
onto  a  two-dimensional  viewing  plane.  Although  pro- 
viding good  visual  depth  cues  (eg:  parallel  lines  appearing 
to  meet  at  a  point),  there  is  no  real  illusion  of  depth;  in 
other  words,  the  model  image  is  still  "flat."  To  correct 
this,  the  phenomenon  of  stereopsis  (from  the  Greek, 
meaning  "solid  sight")  can  be  employed.  You  may  be 
familiar  with  the  1847  Brewster  stereoscope.  Here,  the 
approach  taken  to  give  the  illusion  of  depth  was  to 
photograph  the  same  scene  twice,  having  moved  the 
camera  about  6  cm  sideways  between  photos.  The  two 
images  could  then  be  viewed  through  a  stereoscope  that 
utilized  a  prism  and  lens  system  to  alter  the  image  paths 
to  the  eye,  so  that  the  two  views  seemed  to  originate  from 
a  common  point.  (The  old-fashioned  stereopticon  and  the 
modern  View-Master  are  variations  on  this  theme.)  The 
observer's  visual  system  fused  the  two  images,  giving  the 
illusion  of  a  three-dimensional  image. 

Various  computer-graphic  techniques  using  the  same 
principles  have  been  developed.  A  common  technique  is 
to  employ  glasses  with  electro-optic  shutter  eyepieces  to 
provide  the  image  separation.  With  the  electro-optic 
glasses,  the  cyclopia  video  display  presents  left-  and 
right-perspective  images  in  alternate  frames,  which  are 
then  synchronized  with  the  electro-optic  shutters.  The 
left  eye  is  presented  with  the  left  stereograph,  while  the 
right  eye's  view  is  blanked  by  the  optical  shutter;  the  im- 
age and  shutter  swap  for  the  right  eye.  The  viewer's  inter- 
nal visual  system  fuses  the  image  to  give  the  appearance 
of  depth.  For  an  example  of  this,  see  'The  Future  of  Com- 
puter Graphics,"  page  22. 

A  different  approach  to  providing  left  and  right  images 
to  the  visual  system  uses  color  to  separate  the  images. 
Using  a  device  called  an  anaglyph,  the  left  view  is 
presented  in  one  color,  and  the  right  in  a  different  color. 
Color  filters  control  which  eye  sees  what  view.  A  pro- 
gram for  generating  and  viewing  anaglyphs  is  presented 
in  the  article  'Three-Dimensional  Graphics  for  the  Apple 
II."  (See  page  148.)  While  the  traditional  colors  employed 
are  red  and  green,  any  two  colors  and  corresponding 
filters  could  be  used,  because  the  illusion  is  based  on  the 
separation  of  the  images,  and  has  nothing  to  do  with  the 
particular  colors.  The  phenomenon  is  as  apparent  to  a 

8       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


PASCAL/Z  -  Q.E.D. 


Ithaca  Intersystems  PASCAL/Z  is  the  most  powerful  CP/M™ 
compatible  Z-80™  Pascal  compiler  ever  .  .  .  and  here's  why: 

PASCAL/Z  generates  true  Z-80  native  code  —  ROMable 
and  re-entrant  —  5-1  OX  faster  than  P-code  interpreters; 
permits  separate  compilation;  supports  Direct  File  Access 
and  variable  length  STRINGs;  utilizes  fast  one-pass  recursive 
descent  organization;  the  macro-assembler  generates 
relocatable  object  modules;  and  much,  much  more. 

Complete  package  includes  compiler,  macro-assembler, 
linker/loader  and  source  for  the  full  library  on  one  disk;  with 
free  copy  of  Jensen/Wirth  book  and  complete  documenta- 
tion. Only  $395.00. 

IT'S  DEMONSTRABLE! 
Don't  just  take  our  word  for  it.  Ask  for  a  demonstration  of 
these  features  and  more  today  at  Computerland"    and  other 
full-service  computer  stores. 

Ithaca  Intersystems  Inc.,  1650  Hanshaw  Road 

P.O.  Box  91,  Ithaca,  N.Y.  14850.  Phone  (607)  257-0190 

ComputerLand  is  a  registered  trademark  of  Computerland  Corporation. 

CP/M  and  Z-80  are  trademarks  of  Digital  Research  Corp.  and  Zilog,  Inc.  respectively. 

PASCAL/Z  and  InterSystems  are  trademarks  of  Ithaca  Intersystems  Inc. 


Ik 


Ithaca  Intersystems  Inc 


^JTM 


Micros  for  bigger  ideas. 


*>*'»#*? 


•*       \.      ''      '       '' 


.-•:X 


■  ■.  ,' 


.Mm^ 


m 


>  v    .  ■ 


*iM' 


ITM 


■      1 

1    B 

If      V 

11  1 

• 

1 

«         „ 

_^  1 

mmtmm 

.   - 

Outside  of  the  garden 
you  need  a  computer  that  can  grow. 


For  the  average  garden-variety  home  and  hobby  operation, 
a  high  quality  personal  computer  is  a  real  temptation.  But 
let's  face  it:  in  the  world  of  business,  engineering  and 
scientific  applications  you  need  a  system  that  can  keep  up 
with  bigger  ideas. 

Bigger  ideas  today  mean  the  power  and  flexibility  to 
move  the  micro  up  to  and  beyond  the  level  of  yesterday's 
minis.  More  memory  to  hold  bigger  data  bases.  More 
flexibility  to  handle  a  variety  of  data  entry  devices.  More 
programming  and  computing  power  for  numbercrunching 
and  applications  development.  And  easy  upgrade  to  16  bit 
operation  when  you  need  it. 

Intersystems  has  that,  and  more.  The  power  and  flexibility 
of  the  versatile  S- 100  bus,  with  20  slots  of  expandability  for 
up  to  16  individually-addressable  DMA  devices  and  up  to  1 
Megabyte  of  memory,  fully  accessible  to  all  users  via  our 
unique  memory  management  system.  Plus  reliable 
Intersystems  design  and  manufacture,  and  the  support  of 
our  PASCAL/Z'"...the  most  powerful  Z-80°™  compiler  ever. 

For  really  serious  computing,  our  front  panel  provides  a 
powerful  diagnostic  tool  for  debugging  or  development. 
Combined  with  a  scope,  it  allows  you  to  look  at  any  location 
in  the  circuitry,  set  breakpoints,  trigger  and  view  one-shot 
events,  and  many  other  activities  usually  possible  only  with 
expensive  logic  analyzers.  No  wonder  it's  fast  becoming  the 
tool  of  choice  for  repair  technicians  and  custom  hardware 
designers. 


Intersystems  Series  II  is  the  most  complete  line  of  fully 
IEEE  696  compatible  S-100  boards.. .easily  upgradeable  to 
our  MPU  8000™  or  other  16  bit  S-100  CPU's  as  they  become 
available.. .so  you're  never  locked  out  of  rapid  expansion,  or 
locked  into  obsolescence,  by  dependency  on  a  proprietary 
product  line. 

So  if  you've  left  those  garden-variety  applications  behind, 
come  to  Intersystems  and  get  a  system  that  will  grow  as  big 
as  your  next  idea.  Get  it  from  the  people  who  know  small 
computers.. .your  Computerland  store... or  other  fine  full 
service  computer  dealers. 

Ithaca  Intersystems  Inc.,  1650  Hanshaw  Road 

P.O.  Box  91,  Ithaca,  N.Y.  14850. 

Phone  (607)  257-0190  TWX:  510  255  4346. 

Z-80  is  a  trademark  of  Zilog,  Inc. 

PASCAL/Z   MPU  8000  and  InlerSyslems  are  trademarks  ot  Ithaca  Intersystems.  Inc 


□ODfeD'ffiysfeDDD^ 

V^    Ithaca  Intersystems  Inc. 

Micros  for  bigger  ideas. 


color-blind  person  as  it  is  to  a  viewer  with  normal  color 
vision.  For  those  interested  in  further  information,  the 
book  Seeing  is  an  excellent  reference  on  vision  in  general 
and  stereopsis  in  particular.  (See  reference  4.) 

A  more  recent  and  unique  approach  to  presenting 
three-dimensional  images  is  SpaceGraph,  developed  by 
Dr  Larry  Sher.  His  technique  uses  a  vibrating  mirror  and 
a  video  display.  The  technique  is  to  generate  on  the 
display  two-dimensional  "slices"  of  the  three-dimensional 
object  to  be  viewed.  The  slices  are  rapidly  generated  in 
synchronization  with  the  dynamic  motion  of  the  mirror, 
the  front  slice  being  generated  when  the  mirror  is  extend- 
ed toward  the  viewer,  the  back  slice  when  the  mirror  is 
concaved  away  from  the  viewer,  and  the  intermediate 
slices  as  appropriate  for  the  travel  of  the  mirror  between 
these  extremes.  The  rapid  sequence  of  images  is  fused 
by  the  viewer's  visual  system  to  give  the  illusion  of  a 
"space  filling"  object.  (See  reference  7.) 

Those  adventuresome  souls  who  find  three-dimensions 
insufficient  for  their  purposes  can  use  computer  graphics 
as  an  aid  for  visualizing  objects  which,  theoretically,  exist 
in  four  or  more  dimensions.  If  you  are  interested  in  this 
area,  Hypergraphics  is  a  good  introduction  to  the  sub- 
ject. (See  reference  3.)  The  book  includes 
hyperstereograms  of  such  objects  as  hypercubes  or 
tesseracts,  hypercones,  and  other  denizens  of  higher 
dimensions. 

Animation  is  another  technique  that  can  assist  in  user 
comprehension  of  data.  Often  we  are  dealing  with  infor- 
mation gathered  at  discrete  intervals  over  a  period  of 
time.  Here,   the  problem  of  analyzing  data  is  one  of 


FLOPPY  DISK  FACTORY  DIRECT  FLOPPY  DISK  FACTO 

D 

-< 

D 

H 
m 

n 


o 

r- 

u 
< 

LL 

in 
a 

a. 
a. 
o 


CJ 
LLI 
DC 

Q 

>■ 

DC 
O 
I— 
O 
< 
u. 

Q 
> 
0. 
D. 
O 


u 

LLI 
DC 

Q 

>- 
DC 
O 

I— 

a 
< 


•  Buy  factory  direct  from  the  manufacturer  of  floppy  disks 
sold  exclusively  under  other  well-known  brand  names. 

•  Save  distribution  costs  on  reversible  5.25"  floppy  disks, 
which  are  1 00°/o  certified  for  40  track,  dual  side,  double 
density  and  all  other  standard  applications. 

•  50°ta  savings  on  5.25"  floppy  disks  with  new  factory- 
direct  2.2  megabyte  capacity  "Diskit" 

•  Factory-direct  "Diskit",  includes  twelve  floppy  disks 
and  accessories,  plus  a  head  cleaner  disk  and  solution 
packaged  in  a  bookcase  binder  for  easy  access,  handling 
and  Storage.  "Diskit"  complete  for  the  introductory 
price  of  only  £49.50  plus  $2.50  freight  and  handling. 
Normal  price  $59  50  Order  now  and  save  $10.00 
(CA  residents  add  61/2c/o  sales  tax). 

•  Available  in  hard  and  soft  sector  configurations;  when 
ordering  indicate  number  of  sectors  —  1 ,  1 0  or  1 6. 

•  Send  check  or  money  order  to: 

Factory  Direct 

P.O.  Box  60759 
Sunnyvale,  CA  94088 

For  VISA  or  MasterCard  call  toll-free 

(8001  824-7888 

In  Calif.  (800)  852-7777 

In  Alaska  &  Hawaii  (800)  824-7919 

Ask  for  Operator  98 


d  XSIO  AddOld  133UI0  AHOlOVd  >fSIQ  AddOld  10 


O 

"O 
T) 

■< 

g 

CD 

> 

n 

— i 
o 

D 

< 

a 
n 

m 

n 


o 

T) 
TJ 

< 

D 

en 

A 

Tl 
> 

n 

H 
O 
30 

< 
a 

D 

m 


understanding  what  is  occurring  to  the  data  elements 
over  some  length  of  time.  Animation  provides  a  looking 
glass  into  the  time  domain.  Flowing,  three-dimensional 
images  can  represent  anything  from  an  economic  world 
model  to  a  bridge  under  stress. 

Hidden  Benefits 

There  are  times  when  animation  provides  the  viewer 
with  unexpected  information — information  which,  in 
retrospect,  was  present  but  not  readily  discernible  by  any 
other  method  of  examination.  An  interesting  example  of 
this  situation  involves  the  simulation  of  an  internal  com- 
bustion engine.  The  simulation,  performed  at  a  research 
laboratory,  wrote  out  data  in  the  conventional  manner: 
stacks  of  numbers.  At  the  same  laboratory,  some  time 
after  the  engine  simulation  had  been  completed  and  used 
for  experiments,  a  different  group  of  researchers  devel- 
oped a  computer-animation  system.  The  engine  simula- 
tion was  selected  as  a  good  demonstration  of  the  new 
graphics  software,  and  a  computer-generated  film  was 
produced.  During  the  screening  of  the  film  it  was  noticed 
that  small  rectangular  elements,  used  to  represent  ideal- 
ized gas  packets,  displayed  a  strange,  unexpected  oscilla- 
tion at  their  endpoints.  Review  of  the  animation  soft- 
ware provided  no  explanation  for  this  erratic  behavior. 
Close  examination  of  output  from  the  original  simulation 
revealed  that  the  oscillations  were  indeed  present.  This 
fact  had  not  been  previously  noticed  because  the  infor- 
mation had  been  obscured  by  a  combination  of  the 
tremendous  amount  of  data,  the  smallness  of  the  oscilla- 
tion, and  the  extended  period  over  which  it  occurred. 
What  had  in  fact  been  found  were  acoustical-wave 
phenomena  occurring  within  the  cylinder  of  the  engine, 
which  could  potentially  be  used  for  the  development  of 
more  efficient  engines.  The  events  went  unnoticed  until  a 
computer-generated  movie  was  constructed. 

In  the  30  years  since  its  beginnings,  computer- 
generated  graphics  has  grown  steadily,  but  not  spec- 
tacularly. Previously  the  costs  of  both  the  display  and  the 
computer  resources  needed  to  support  graphic  displays 
have  limited  the  impact.  Rapidly  falling  memory  prices 
and  television  technology  have  renewed  the  interest  in 
computer  graphics.  The  combination  of  a  television 
raster  display  and  a  memory-intensive,  bit-mapped  ar- 
chitecture makes  possible  a  graphic  system  capable  of 
providing  full-color,  dynamic  images  with  previously 
unheard  of  realism  and  economy.  "Micrograph,  Part  1: 
Developing  an  Instruction  Set  for  a  Raster-Scan 
Display,"  describes  the  design  and  construction  of  a 
color-display  processor  that  costs  approximately  $250  to 
build.  (See  page  64.)  This  is  possible  only  because  of  the 
plummeting  cost  of  hardware.  This  is  a  cost  reduction  of 
three  orders  of  magnitude  in  15  years,  with  color  added 
for  free  I 

Graphics  Software 

The  advent  of  inexpensive  graphics  hardware  has,  not 
unexpectedly,  spurred  the  development  of  graphics  soft- 
ware. The  traditional  approach  for  supporting  graphics 
has  been  to  provide  a  collection  of  subroutines  that  per- 
form the  graphic-display  functions.  These  subroutines 
are  called  from  languages  whose  orientation  is  toward  the 
manipulation  of  text  and  numerical  data.  This  approach 
is  fine  if  you  only  want  to  accumulate  data  and  make  a 


10        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  4  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  5  on  inquiry  card. 


trill  two  bit <*s 
SjSie  stone? 

.        i„»orwiVOU 


Mayb< 


you 


8-«*SS 


iaxiroum 


comPat' 
For  ex- 


line 


*>  a  ^  r^odem  to  f6^.  Tbe 
instead oi  40  am        for  hard^ 

services,  ^.rft^l"*"*^ 


C.3BSSS* 


includes 
Istan 


B  On-boardfirm- 
owerfuldrvver 
^nCedtowriteany 


features  sv 

es  a rotary  on-uwu—- 

^dbaudrates^  dnver 

provides  a  pow  .^  m 


vssss***-. 


■  .  _.t„,.0  can  be  useu  j-.ters. 


This  interface  ^V^jOA  P*t«s  .  T£ 
»  i*»  to  a  variety  otPt\,ave  enough  W»» 
Sa^^^stoXaneously^ 
f  vLdle  two  printers  s  roanuai 

hanSbaking  contro L^e £  g 


ssssss^ 


"■       -  ■    — neral 


boat^}«^: 


nterface 


8-lS^sS^ 


>nal 
store 


TWO  **^  b    rd  on  tne  '""'•'„      even  d°UUw  that's  been 


*?",  That's  the 

tune-  oGAA  0!  n41 !  „„-  SOUw  —  - 

v  including^        rcontact 


l  PROM"! 


>e  we  can 
save  you  a  call. 

Many  people  have  called  with  the 

same  questions  about  the  AIO. 

We'll  answer  those  and  a  few  more  here. 

Q:  Does  the  AIO  have  hardware  handshaking? 

A:  Yes.  The  serial  port  accommodates  3  types— RTS, 

CTS.  and  PCD.  The  parallel  port  handles  ACK,  ACK 

BSY,  STB,  and  STB. 

Qi  What  equipment  can  be  used  with  the  AIO? 

A:  A  partial  list  of  devices  that  have  actually  been  tested 

with  the  AIO  includes:  IDS  440  Paper  Tiger,  Centronics 

779,  Qume  Sprint  5,  NEC  Spinwriter,  Comprint ,  Heathkit 

H14,  IDS  125,  IDS  225,  Hazeltine  1500,  Lear  Siegler 

ADM-3,  DTC  300,  AJ  841. 

Q:  Does  the  AIO  work  with  Pascal? 

A:  Yes.  The  current  AIO  serial  firmware  works  great 

with  Pascal.  If  you  want  to  run  the  parallel  port,  or  both 

the  serial  and  parallel  ports  with  Pascal,  order  our 

"Pascal  Patcher  Disk'.' 

Q:  What  kind  of  firmware  option  is  available  for 

the  parallel  interface? 

A:  Two  PROM's  that  the  user  installs  on  the  AIO  card 

in  place  of  the  Serial  Firmware  PROM's  provide: 

Variable  margins,  Variable  page  length,  Variable 

indentations,  and  Auto-line-feed  on  carriage 

return. 

Q:  How  do  I  interface  my  new  printer  to  my  Apple 
using  my  AIO  card? 

A:  Interconnection  diagrams  for  many  popular 

printers  and  other  devices  are  contained  in  the 

AIO  Manual.  If  your  printer  is  not  mentioned, 

please  contact  SSM's  Technical  Support  Dept. 

and  they  will  help  you  with  the  proper 

connections. 

Qi  I  want  to  use  my  Apple  as  a  dumb  terminal 
with  a  modem  on  a  timesharing  service  like 
The  Source.  Can  I  do  that  with  the  AIO? 
A:  Yes.  A  "Dumb  Terminal  Routine"  is  listed 
in  the  AIO  Manual.  It  provides  for  full  and 

half  duplex,  and  also  checks  for  presence 

of  a  carrier. 

Qi  What  length  cables  are  provided? 

A:  For  the  serial  port,  a  12  inch  ribbon  cable 

with  a  DB-25  socket  on  the  user  end 

is  supplied.  For  the  parallel  port,  a  72  inch 

ribbon  cable  with  an  unterminated  user 

end  is  provided.  Other  cables  are  available 

on  special  volume  orders. 


iP      »n  at  vour  local  iu» 
^^eWormation. 


us 


33® 


The  AIO  is  just  one  of  several  boards 
for  the  Apple  that  SSM  will  be  introducing 
over  the  next  year.  We  are  also 
receptive  to  developing  products  to 

meet  special  OEM  requirements. 

So  please  contact  us  if  you  have 

a  need  and  there  is  nothing  available 

to  meet  it. 


TM 


oi  Apple 


Computere' 


~m 


SSM  Microcomputer  Products 
2190  Paragon  Drive 
San  Jose,  California  95131 
(408)  946-7400 


n 


Wl 


««1 


1^ 


ng  and  the  Apple. 


If  you  could  talk  to  Orville  Wright,  he'd 
tell  you  the  problems  he  faced  as  a  turn- 
of-the-century  engineer.  You  could  tell  him 
all  about  the  technological  solutions 
available  to  today's  engineer  and  scientist. . . 
particularly  a  20th  century  phenomenon 
that  tests  assumptions  and  defines  models 
before  a  project  gets  off  the  ground. 
The  Apple  personal  computer. 

Computation,  calculation, 
analysis. ..the  power  to 
pilot  your  projects. 

With  a  highly-integrated  system  from 
the  extensive  Apple  personal  computer 
family,  Orville  and  brother  Wilbur  would 
have  increased  their  productivity.  Perhaps 
even  launched  the  Kitty  Hawk  Flyer  well 
before  1903. 

An  Apple  in  their  hangar  would  have 
freed  them  from  the  time  and  tedium  of 
crunching  numbers  by  hand. 

An  Apple  in  your  lab  or  office  will  give 
you  the  problem-solving  capabilities  you 
demand  from  a  big  computer. .  without 
the  time-consuming  problems  typical  of 
remote  processing. 

But  the  Apple  system  solution  doesn't 
stop  there.  It  keeps  on  soaring  with  proven 
performance,  power  and  expandability 


Apple's  existing  software  library  includes 
a  program  that  plots  the  shape  of  an 
airfoil,  given  its  parameters. 

that's  unparalleled  for  analyzing  alterna- 
tive paths  of  design  and  modeling  a 
wide  variety  of  physical  processes. 

Want  more  memory?  Depending  on 
your  choice  of  system,  Apple  has  memory 
expandable  to  64K  bytes  or  128K  bytes. 
Prefer  wide  displays?  Choose  40  or  80 
characters.  Need  to  control  instruments 
in  the  lab?  Get  on  the  IEEE  488  bus.  Over 


Circle  6  on  Inquiry  card. 


*P^    your  own 
""P*    programs,  the 
Apple  also  speaks 
in  languages  other 
than  FORTRAN:  Pascal, 
BASIC,  PILOT  and  6502 
assembly  language. 


100  companies  also  supply  peripherals  for 
Apple  because  Apple  is  the  most  popular 
personal  computer  with  the  least  com- 
plicated interface. 

Want  an  efficient  system  of  data  storage 
and  access?  Apple's  5  xk"  disk  drive  not 
only  offers  you  increased  application 
versatility,  but  high  density  (143K  bytes), 
high  speed  and  low  cost.  You  can  even  add 
up  to  four  or  more  drives  to  your 
Apple  system.  With 
proven  reliability, 
no  wonder  it's  the 
most  popular  drive 
on  the  market  today. 


Wilbur  determined  that  birds  didnt  have  to  constantly  flap 
their  wings  to  fly.  With  an  Apple,  he  could' ve  determined  the 
fixed-wing  design  of  the  Kitty  Hawk  Flyer  much  faster. 


FORTRAN  that  helped 
to  design  a  20th  century 
flying  machine. 

Fluent  in  the  same  language  that  helped 
to  design  the  747,  Apple  FORTRAN  lets  you 
tackle  differential  equations  at  the  touch  of 
a  key.  And  since  more  than  170  companies 
also  offer  software  for  the  Apple  family, 
you  can  have  one  of  the  most  impressive 
program  libraries  ever. .  .including  vast 
subroutine  libraries  for  math,  science, 
engineering  and  statistics.  When  you  write 


Where  to  learn 
more  about  Apple, 
the  small-yet' 
serious 
solution. 

Let  your 
imagination 
soar  with 
Apple. 
Discover  the  20th 
century  tool  versatile 
enough  to  monitor 
quality  controls  and 
manufacturing  sched- 
ules, orchestrate 
tolerance  tests  and 
determine  alternative 
parts  selection.  Learn  why  Apple  emerges 
as  the  technological  leader  of  reliable 
personal  computer  products  that  increase 
your  productivity. 

Let  the  Apple  dealer  show  you  how, 
by  putting  the  system  of  your  choice 
through  its  paces.  He'll  tell  you  about  our 
extended  warranty,  support  and  service. 
And  he'll  prove  that  a  personal  computer 
is  not  just  a  flight  of  fancy  but  a  serious 
solution.  Don't  let  history  pass  you  by. 
Visit  your  nearest  Apple  dealer,  or  call 
800-538-9696.  In  California, 
800-662-9238. 


wcippkz  computer 


*  syi 


fiN  eXCITING"R€UJ 

tunv  TO  POLISH 
TH€  flPPL€  . 

CHEM  LAB  SIMULATIONS 
FROM  HIGH  TECHNOLOGY.' 

I  ligh  I  i  i  hnology  introduces  two  new  and 
effective  education  packages  .  .  .  Chem  Lab 
Simulation  #1  and  #2  .  designed  for  use  with 
the  Apple  II "computer. 

Developed  by  a  chemistry  professor  at 
Oklahoma  State  University,  both  programs 
realistically  and  dynamically  illustrate  the  laws 
of  basic  chemistry.  They  provide  virtually 
unlimited  results  and  instant  feed  back! 

Suitable  for  high  school  or  college  level 
introductory  chemistry  students,  the 
programs  are  art  invaluable  lecture  aid  And 
for  individual  study,  they  provide  first-hand 
student  involvement  as  well  as  help  solve  the 
perennial  teaching  problems  of  limited  time, 
space,  and  resources. 

CH€M  LAB  SIMULATION  #1  .  .  . 


•  An  acid-base  titration 
experiment 

•  Determination  ot  an 
unknown  weak  acid, 


experiment  and  a  pH 
meter  experiment 
"Determination  of 
Avogadro's  Number, 
including  a  titration 
experiment  and  a 
monomolecular  film 
experiment 


CH6M  LRI3  SIMULATION  #2  .  . 

written  in  machine  language  for  fast  response 
time,  uses  APPLE'S*"  colorful  low-resolution 
graphics  to  simulate:  ' 


'The  Kinetic- Molecular 

Theory 

•  The  Principles 
of  Entropy 


' '  ■  imm&imt 


See  your  nearest  dealer  today,  or  contact: 


P.O.  Box  14665 
Oklahoma  City,  OK  73113 

(405)  840-9900    . 


APPLE™  is  a  registered  trademark  of  APPLE  COMPUTER,  INC. 


picture  from  it.  The  subroutine  approach  excludes  the 
possibility  of  treating  graphical  objects  as  variables 
within  the  language,  or  using  them  within  statements  and 
expressions.  Some  research  work  has  been  done  which  in- 
cludes the  concept  of  graphical  objects  and  operators 
within  a  language  structure.  To  date,  there  have  been  a 
number  of  different  approaches  to  the  problem  of  han- 
dling graphical  objects.  Deeply  intertwined  in  the  prob- 
lem is  our  fundamental  lack  of  understanding  of  how  to 
provide  graphics  support.  Viewed  from  the  perspective  of 
a  language,  what  fundamental  primitives  must  be  pro- 
vided? What  are  the  appropriate  data  types?  How  are  ex- 
pressions constructed?  What  operators  need  to  be  pro- 
vided? The  list  of  unknowns  goes  on  and  on.  "Language 
Control  Structures  for  Easy  Electronic  Visualization,"  by 
Dr  Tom  DeFanti,  addresses  this  area.  (See  page  90.)  Some 
examples  of  other,  experimental,  graphics  languages  are 
given  in  references  2  and  5.  SHAZAM  (Smalltalk's 
sHaded  imAge  Zippy  Animated  Moviemaker)  is  an  in- 
teresting animated-movie  language  written  in  Smalltalk. 
(See  reference  1.)  In  no  way  does  this  list  exhaust  the  pro- 
gress that  has  been  made  in  graphics  languages,  but 
rather  it  reflects  a  small  sampling  of  recent  work. 

All  the  aspects  of  graphics  we  have  discussed  allow  us 
to  construct  windows  into  universes,  real  or  imaginary. 
Computer  graphics  is  exciting  because  with  this  tool  we 
can  witness  the  unraveling  of  a  DNA  molecule,  or  the 
collision  of  galaxies.  We  can  watch  the  structure  of  the 
universe  as  it  expands  from  the  moment  of  the  theoretical 
big  bang,  or,  reversing  entropy,  see  it  collapse  into  the 
primordial  particle.  We  can  plot  a  mathematical  func- 
tion, view  an  economic  trend,  or  travel  faster  than  light 
to  where  robotic  insects  populate  metallic  worlds.  Best  of 
all,  we  can  make  it  all  seem  real,  because  we  can  see  itla 


References 

Baecker,  R.  "A  Conversational  Extensible  System  for  the  Anima- 
tion of  Shaded  Images."  Computer  Graphics,  Volume  10,  Number 
2,  Summer  1976. 

Bergman,  S  and  A  Kaufman.  "BGRAF  2:  A  Real-Time  Graphics 
Language  With  Modular  Objects  and  Implicit  Dynamics."  Com- 
puter Graphics,  Volume  10,  Number  2,  Summer  1976. 

3.  Brisson,  D  (editor).  Hypergraphics  —  Visualizing  Complex  Rela- 
tionships in  Art,  Science  and  Technology.  Westview  Press,  1978. 

4.  Frisby,  J.  Seeing.  New  York:  Oxford  University  Press,  1980. 

5.  Gonzales,  C  and  J  Vial.  "GRAL  —  A  Graphic  Computer  Language 
for  Intelligent  Terminals."  Proceedings  of  the  Conference  on 
Computer  Graphics,  Pattern  Recognition  and  Data  Structures, 
May  1975. 

6.  Myers,  W.  "Computer  Graphics:  A  Two  Way  Street."  Computer, 
July  1980. 

7.  Shershow,  H.  "Realistic  Spatial  Display."  Digital  Design,  June 
1980. 

Walters,  T  and  W  Harris.  "Graphics  in  Depth."  BYTE,  Volume  3, 
Number  5,  May  1978,  page  16. 


2. 


8 


Articles  Policy 

BYTE  is  continually  seeking  quality  manuscripts  written  by  indi- 
viduals who  are  applying  personal  computer  systems,  designing 
such  systems,  or  who  have  knowledge  which  will  prove  useful  to 
our  readers.  For  a  more  formal  description  of  procedures  and 
requirements,  potential  authors  should  send  a  large  (9  by  12  inch, 
30.5  by  22.8  cm),  self-addressed  envelope,  with  28  cents  US  postage 
affixed,  to  BYTE  Author's  Guide,  70  Main  St,  Peterborough  NH 
03458. 

Articles  which  are  accepted  are  purchased  with  a  rate  of  up  to  $50 
per  magazine  page,  based  on  technical  quality  and  suitability  for 
BYTE's  readership.  Each  month,  the  authors  of  the  two  leading 
articles  in  the  reader  poll  (BYTE's  Ongoing  Monitor  Box  or 
"BOMB")  are  presented  with  bonus  checks  of  $100  and  $50.  Unso- 
licited materials  should  be  accompanied  by  full  name  and  address, 
as  well  as  return  postage. 


14        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  7  on  Inquiry  card. 


Circle  8  on  inquiry  card. 


odel  I  Computer  Owners  . 

Double-density  storage. 
It's  really  here! 


Here  at  Percom.  And  your  authorized  Percom  dealers. 

And  double-density  storage  is  here  in  a  big  way.  Because  now 
you  can  choose  from  three  different  levels  of  mini-disk  systems  — 
all  double-density  rated. 

And  get  the  storage  that  precisely  meets  your  application 
needs. 

Not  to  mention  the  service  and  quality  that's  made  Percom  the 
industry  leader. 


,.,.yi; /,»:;■  : 


Although  rated  for  double-density  operation,  all 
levels  of  Percom  drives  work  equally  well  in  single- 
density  applications. 

You  can  operate  these  drives  in  ordinary  single- 
density  format  using  TRSDOS*  Percom  OS-80™ 
or  any  other  single-density  operating  system. 

Or,  you  can  add  a  Percom  DOUBLER™  to  your 
Tandy  Expansion  Interface  and  store  data  and 
programs  in  either  single-  or  double-density 
format. 


Under  double-density  operation,  you  can  store 
as  much  as  350  Kbytes  of  formatted  data  —  de- 
pending on  the  drive  model  —  on  one  side  of  a 
five-inch  minidiskette. 

That's/our  times  the  capacity  of  standard  Model 
I  mini-disks,  almost  100  Kbytes  more  than  the 
capacity  of  the  eight-inch  IBM  3740  format! 

Available  in  1-,  2-  and  3-drive  configurations  in 
all  three  model  lines,  Percom  burned-in,  fully- 
tested  drives  start  at  only  $399. 


TFD-40™  Drives 

TFD-40  Drives  store  180  Kbytes  (double-density)  or 
102  Kbytes  (single-density)  of  formatted  data  on  one 
side  of  a  40-track  minidiskette.  Although  economical- 
ly priced,  TFD-40  drives  receive  the  same  full  Percom 
quality  control  measures  as  TFD-100  and  TFD-200 
drives. 


TFD-100™  Drives 

TFD-100  drives  are  "flippy"  drives.  You  store  twice 
the  data  per  minidiskette  by  using  both  sides  of  the 
disk.  TFD-100  drives  store  180  Kbytes  (double- 
density)  or  102  Kbytes  (single-density)  per  side. 
Under  double-density  operation,  you  can  store  a  70- 
page  document  on  one  minidiskette. 


TFD-200™  Drives 

TFD-200  drives  store  350  Kbytes  (double-density)  or 
197  Kbytes  (single-density)  on  one  side  of  a  minidis- 
kette. By  comparison,  3740-formatted  eight-inch 
disks  store  only  256  Kbytes.  Enormous  on-line  stor- 
age capacity  in  a  5"  drive,  plus  proven  Percom 
reliability.  That's  what  you  get  in  a  TFD-200. 


the  DOUBLER™  —  This  proprietary  adapter  for  the  TRS-80* 
Model  I  computer  packs  approximately  twice 
the  data  on  a  disk  track. 

Depending  on  the  type  of  drive,  you  can 
store  up  to  four  times  as  much  data  —  350 
Kbytes  —  on  one  side  of  a  minidiskette  as  you 
can  store  using  a  Tandy  standard  Model  1  com- 
puter drive. 

Easy  to  install,  the  DOUBLER  merely  plugs 
into  the  disk  controller  chip  socket  of  your 
Expansion  Interface.  No  rewiring.  No  trace, cutting. 

And  because  the  DOUBLER  reads,  writes  and  formats 
either  single-  or  double-density  disks,  you  can  con- 
tinue to  run  all  of  your  single-density  software,  then  switch  to 
double-density  operation  at  any  convenient  time. 

Included  with  the  PC  card  adapter  is  a  TRSDOS*-compatible 
double-density  disk  operating  system,  called  DBLDOS™,  plus  a 
CONVERT  utility  that  converts  files  and  programs  from  single-  to 
double-density  or  double-  to  single-density  format. 

Each  DOUBLER  also  includes  an  on-card  high-performance 
data  separator  circuit  which  ensures  reliable  disk  read  operation. 

The  DOUBLER  works  with  standard  35-,  40-,  77- and  80- 
track  drives  rated  for  double-density  operation. 

Note.  Opening  the  Expansion  Interface  to  install  the 
DOUBLER  may  void  Tandy's  limited  90-day  warranty. 


Drive  enclosures,  power  supplies  Percom  drive  enclosures 
are  finished  in  compatible  silver  enamel.  Three  sizes  accommo- 
date either  1 ,  2  or  3  drives.  Drive  power  supplies  are  heavy  duty, 
cool-running  open-frame  design.  Three-wire  ac  power  cords  are 
safer,  have  lower  noise  pickup. 

Free  software  patch  This  software  patch,  called  PATCH  PAK™, 
upgrades  TRSDOS*  for  operation  with  improved  40-  and  77- 
track  drives.  For  single-density  operation  only. 


Quality  Percom  products  are  available  at  authorized  dealers.     Call  toll  free 
1-800-527-1592  for  the  address  of  your  nearest  dealer  or  to  order  directly  from 

PerCOm.     Prices  and  specifications  subject  to  change  without  notice. 
™  trademark  of  Percom  Data  Company,  inc. 
*  trademark  of  Tandy  Radio  Shack  Corporation  which  has  no  relationship  to  Percom  Data  Company. 


PERCOM  DATA  COMPANY,   INC. 

211  N.  KIHBY  •   GARLAND  TX  •   75042 
1214)272-3421 


Letters 


Moore  Praise  Comes  FORTH 

If  FORTH  is  trickery,  give  me  more 
trickery. 

In  my  view,  FORTH  is  a  common- 
sense  approach  to  programming. 
Granted,  there  are  also  bits  of  pure 
genius  thrown  in. 

It  makes  sense  to  put  all  the  routines 
used  by  the  operating  system,  compiler, 
parser,  editor,  etc,  in  one  dictionary 
conveniently  accessible  to  the  user  at  all 
times.  That  is,  if  they  will  fit.  One  of 
the  bits  of  genius  of  FORTH  is  that  they 
do  indeed  fit  with  room  to  spare  for 
user-defined  routines.  The  result  is  in- 
stant liberation  from  the  "systems  man" 
who  tries  but  can't  please  everyone.  It  is 
your  computer,  and  with  FORTH  you 
have  access  to  everything  on  it. 

It  makes  sense  to  use  a  stack  to  pass 
parameters  between  routines  and  to 
separate  this  stack  from  the  return- 
address  stack.  You  end  up  with  a 
language  that  is  designed  to  compute 
rather  than  to  be  read.  Every  step  in 
FORTH  is  directed  toward  computing  a 
result.  FORTH  is  a  sequence  of  com- 


mands rather  than  statements  as  found 
in  BASIC  or  Pascal.  The  functions  of 
computing  and  documentation  are 
separated.  Hence  I  strongly  disagree 
with  Gregg  Williams'  advice  (see  August 
1980  BYTE,  page  130)  that  the  user 
should  introduce  intermediate  variables 
to  improve  readability.  I  concur  with  his 
objective,  but  I  would  encourage  their 
use  only  in  the  commentary  where  they 
belong.  There  is  no  point  to  introducing 
unnecessary  variables  in  the  computing 
process.  In  the  commentary,  in- 
termediate variables  can  and  should  be 
used  very  effectively  to  help  describe  the 
computations  that  are  occurring  on  the 
stack  without  interfering  with  the  process 

While  FORTH  takes  away  the  ex- 
pository statement,  it  does  give  back  an 
important  documenting  feature,  namely 
relative  ease  in  preparing  precise 
common-language  definitions  of  each 
routine.  All  FORTH  routines  have  a 
describable  goal,  and  most  of  the  action 
takes  place  on  the  stack.  Hence  FORTH 
routines  tend  to  be  simpler  to  describe.  I 
have  never  seen  a  glossary  for  a 
language  or  operating  system  that  comes 


Thousands 

of 

"like  new" 

products 

with 

money  back 

guarantees. 


REI  Sales  Company 
(800)227-8409 

In  California  (213)  993-7368,  (415)  968-8845  or  (714)  879-0561 


even  close  to  the  completeness  and  con- 
ciseness of  the  fig-FORTH  glossary  sup- 
plied by  the  FORTH  Interest  Group.  It  is 
a  gem,  a  complete  English-language 
description  of  FORTH.  Every  routine  on 
the  computer  is  concisely  defined  in 
English. 

You  have  to  have  faith  that  taking  the 
sacred  function  of  documenting  out  of 
the  language  and  turning  it  over  to  the 
user  to  do  as  he  sees  fit  will  work.  After 
a  while,  you  begin  to  wonder  if  Milton 
Friedman  didn't  write  FORTH  for  his 
television  series  Free  to  Choose. 

Finally,  it  makes  sense  to  give  the  pro- 
grammer a  shot  at  controlling  the  com- 
piler, especially  when  the  compiler  has 
access  to  all  the  routines  of  the  system. 
C  H  Moore  has  shown  with  FORTH 
that  compilers  do  not  have  to  be  large 
inflexible  systems  which  try  to  take  into 
account  every  eventuality  and  really 
can't  do  it.  The  result  of  this  bit  of 
FORTH  trickery  is  a  powerful  compiler 
so  tiny  that  it  can  be  made  interactive 
and  used  on  line  with  no  batch  process- 
ing, linking  loader,  or  other  monstros- 
ity which  we  are  accustomed  to 
associate  with  a  compiler. 

How  small  (or  big)  is  tiny?  The  fig- 
FORTH  system  supplied  by  the  FORTH 
Interest  Group  for  the  6502  contains  220 
primitive  routines  (not  including  the 
Editor  or  Assembler)  that  occupy  a  total 
of  6221  bytes.  By  my  count,  34  of  these 
routines  are  compiler  functions,  and 
they  occupy  a  total  of  982  bytes.  My 
guess  is  that  this  is  an  order  of 
magnitude  smaller  than  other  compilers 
of  comparable  power.  That  is  trickery. 

If  there  ever  is  a  contest  for  the  all- 
time  ingenious  software  development,  I 
would  like  to  nominate  C  H  Moore's 
best,  the  {   ;CODE  }  routine  and/or  its 
logical  extension 
{   <BUILDS  ...  DOES>    }. 

Edgar  H  Fey  Jr 
Edgar  H  Fey  Jewelers  Inc 
1156  Fox  Valley  Ctr 
Aurora  IL  60505 


Flash:  Magic  Exists! 

I  was  delighted  to  see  an  issue  of 
BYTE  devoted  to  FORTH.  As  a  user  of 
and  tinkerer  with  STOIC  for  5  years,  I 
heartily  agree  with  the  various  authors' 
ravings  about  the  extensibility,  flexibili- 
ty, and  increase  in  productivity  provided 
by  FORTH.  I  was,  however,  amused  at 
the  many  ways  in  which  postfix 
(reverse-Polish)  notation  was  rational- 


16       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  9  on  Inquiry  caro. 


In  late  1978,  Intertec  conceived  the  idea 
of  the  InterTube  Video  Display  Terminal. 
Since  that  time,  we've  greatly  enhanced  its 
operation  with  the  addition  of  many  new 
exciting  features.  But  perhaps  the  most  sig- 
nificant announcement  in  the  InterTube  line  of 
video  terminals  is  our  new  InterTube  III. 

The  new  $895*  InterTube  III  obsoletes 
dumb  terminals  and  out-performs  the  smart 
ones.  Powerful  standard  features  include: 
a  full  24  line  by  80  character  display,  128 
upper  and  lower  case  ASCII  characters, 
reverse  video,  complete  cursor  addressing 
and  control,  an  18  key  numeric  pad,  user- 
defined  function  keys,  blinking,  a  self-test 
mode,  protected  and  unprotected  fields, 
below-the-line  descenders,  automatic  key 
repeat,  twin  RS232  serial  ports  and  character 
and  line  insert/delete.  Incredible! 

'Quantity  One  •  Dealer  inquiries  invited 


InterTube  III  also  boasts  newly  designed 
processor,  video  and  power  supply  circuits. 
All  in  all,  the  InterTube  III  is  what  we  believe 
to  be  the  most  powerful,  reliable  video  termi- 
nal available  today.  And  it  costs  less  than  its 
predecessor  -  our  popular  InterTube  II. 

InterTube  III  users  will  appreciate  the 
many  painstaking  hours  of  human  engineering 
which  insure  effortless  operation  without 
operator  fatigue.  InterTube  Ill's  new  high 
resolution,  non-glare  CRT  provides  the 
sharpest  possible  display  image.  And  our 
newly  designed  keyboard  has  that  expensive 
"feel"  you  normally  find  only  on  terminals 
costing  two  to  three  times  as  much.  But, 
most  importantly,  the  InterTube  III  features 
state-of-the  art  design  with  just  three  easily 
removable  modules.  So,  with  only  a  common 
screwdriver,  servicing  is  a  snap! 


Better  yet,  we've  got  a  nationwide  serv- 
ice network  with  outlets  located  in  over  50 
cities  to  provide  fast  and  efficient  on-site  or 
depot  maintenance.  Pius,  an  extended 
warranty  program  is  also  available. 

If  you're  an  existing  InterTube  user,  you 
no  doubt  have  discovered  the  exceptional  value 
the  InterTube  really  is.  And,  if  you're  not,  why 
not  call  or  write  us  today  for  the  name  and 
address  of  your  nearest  InterTube  III  dealer. 
Intertec  video  terminals  are  distributed  world- 
wide and  may  be  available  in  your  area  now. 


3 


3NTE?TEC 

Cdata 

=SYSTEMS. 


2300  Broad  River  Rd,  Columbia,  SC  29210 
(803)  798-9100  TWX:  810-666-2115 

Circle  10  on  Inquiry  card. 


ized  as  being  a  better  or  more  efficient 
way  to  do  things  even  though  it  renders 
programs  "write  only"  or  at  best  difficult 
to  read. 

Since  maintainability  of  programs 
becomes  even  more  critical  when  pro- 
ductivity is  increased  tenfold  or  more,  I 
feel  that  the  requirement  of  postfix  nota- 
tion by  FORTH  is  a  serious  shortcom- 
ing. There  is  nothing  mystical  about 
postfix  notation;  all  compilers  and  inter- 
preters must  eventually  reach  this  form 
because  that  is  the  order  in  which  the 
computer  must  carry  out  its  operations. 

Over  the  past  two  years  Jeff  Morris 
and  I  have  added  various  superstructures 
onto  FORTH  (one  per  application)  that 


attempted  to  combine  the  better  features 
of  Pascal  (eg:  record  structures,  algebraic 
notation)  with  the  power  and  flexibility 
of  FORTH.  The  outcome  of  all  of  these 
experiments  was  a  conceptual  break- 
through which  resulted  in  the  invention 
of  Magic.  Magic  has  all  the  advantages 
of  FORTH,  plus,  Magic  programs  are 
readable  (thus  maintainable). 

For  example,  the  FORTH  (or  Magic) 
statement: 

B@   C@    +    A@    *  A! 

can  also  be  written  in  Magic  as: 

A:  =  A*(B  +  C) 


Technicians!  Hobbyists!  Engineers!  Repairmen! 

NEW!  16  CHANNEL 
VARIABLE  A-D  BOARD! 

Now  you  can  digitally  display,  store,  analyze 
and  print  your  measurements! 

The  new  ADC-16B  A-D  Board 

can  be  used  for:  POSITION  MEASUREMENTS 
PRESSURE  MEASUREMENTS 
PHOTOELECTRIC  MEASUREMENTS 
TEMPERATURE  MEASUREMENTS 

A  COMPUTERIZED 

VOLT-OHM  METER 
YOU  GET  A  COMPLETE  SOFTWARE  PACKAGE  INCLUDING 
A  TEST  KIT,  CALIBRATION  METHOD  AND  VARIOUS 

applications!  Only  17995 

This  is  a  variable  Gain  Board  that  allows  increased 

measurements  from  5  volts  up  to  100  volts. 

COMPUTER  TECHNOLOGY 
ASSOCIATES 


CTA 


ORDER  TODAY!  Credit  Card  Users  Call  TOLL  FREE! 
1-800-854-2003  ext.  815     In  California  Call  800-522-1500  ext.  815 


Computer  Technology  Associates 

5812  cromo  Drive,  Suite  102,  El  Paso,  Texas  79912 

new  ADC-16B  A-D  Boards  at  the  Introductory  price  of  1799S  each. 
□  Mastercard  □  visa  □  Diners  club 


A 


Please  rush  me 

□  Check  Enclosed 


card  No. 


Exp.  Date 


Name 

nty 

state 

Zip 

Texas  residents  add  5%  sales  tax. 

Please  allow  4-6  weeks  for  delivery. 

and  in  fact  compiles  in  three  fewer 
words  (since  the  @s  are  not  needed), 
and  the  FORTH  (or  Magic)  statement: 

A®    B@    =    IF 

can  also  be  written  in  Magic  as: 

IF(A.EQ.B) 

Magic  is  a  major  enhancement  to  the 
basic  compilation  structure  of  FORTH  (a 
metaFORTH),  not  simply  an  add-on 
superstructure.  Magic  programs  typically 
compile  more  slowly  (due  to  the  in- 
creased complexity  of  the  compiler)  but 
require  less  memory  and  run  faster  than 
equivalent  FORTH  programs. 

The  concept  of  metaFORTH  is 
discussed  briefly  in  the  article  by  Kim 
Harris.  (See  "FORTH  Extensibility:  or 
How  to  Write  a  Compiler  in  Twenty- 
five  Words  or  Less,"  August  1980  BYTE, 
page  164.)  This  is  the  direction  of  the 
future  and  will  be  the  source  of  some 
super-powerful  programming  tools  in  the 
next  decade.  Magic  is  a  first  step  in  that 
direction. 

I  hope  and  expect  that  new 
metaFORTH  languages  such  as  Magic 
will  be  developed  so  that  FORTH  users 
can  have  their  cake  and  eat  it  too.  The 
time  has  come  to  stop  justifying  the 
unreadability  of  postfix  notation. 

Arnold  Epstein  PhD 

Director,  Software  Development 

Octek  Inc 

7  Corporate  PI 

S  Bedford  St 

Burlington  MA  01803 


Needs  Tektronix  Secrets 

Can  a  BYTE  reader  help  me?  I  have  a 
Tektronix  4051  computer  which  came 
with  a  BASIC  interpreter.  Some  of  my 
programs  must  run  faster,  and  I  would 
like  to  rewrite  them  in  machine  code. 
Tektronix  states  that  machine  code  is 
unsupported  on  the  4051  and  suggests 
spending  another  $10,500  for  a  faster 
Model  4052.  Someone  somewhere  is  pro- 
gramming the  4051  in  machine  code,  as 
"Space  Tag"  on  the  demonstration  tape 
is  in  machine  code  and  runs  incredibly 
faster  than  ordinary  BASIC  programs. 


Richard  Daily 
800  Charlesgate  Dr 
St  Louis  MO  63122 


Information  Please 

I  recently  acquired  a  Video  Brain 
home  computer  built  by  A  Umtech 
Company.  The  serial  number  is  003087 
and  the  model  number  is  101A.  It  was 
built  in  either  Santa  Clara  or  Sunnyvale, 


18        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  11  on  Inquiry  card. 


Circle  12  on  inquiry  card. 


ountain  Computer 

can  now 

EXPAND 

Your  Apple  II  Peripheral  Capacity 

EXPANSION  CHASSIS 


Quality  You  Expect 

Eight  more  slots  for  your  Apple!  Now  you 
can  bank-select  eight  more  peripheral  slots 
with  immediate  or  deferred  software 
commands — like  having  up  to  16  peripheral 
cards  "on  line" — or  use  the  Select/Deselect 
switch  mounted  on  the  front  panel. 
Expansion  Chassis'  heavy-duty  power 
supply  is  primarily  for  peripherals,  without 
the  heavy  demand  of  motherboard  support 
chips  required  in  your  Apple.  This  means 
much  more  power  is  available  for  peri- 
pherals than  in  your  Apple  itself!  If  you've 
run  out  of  room  in  your  Apple — Expansion 
Chassis  is  your  answer.  Drop  by  your  Apple 
dealer  for  a  demonstration,  or  contact 
Mountain  Computer  for  the  location  of 
the  dealer  nearest  you. 


Performance  You  Demand 

•  Eight  mirror  image  I/O  slots  of  the  Apple 

•  Fully  buffered,  bi-directional  data  lines 

•  Apple  II  compatible  interface  card 

•  Dual  selection  capability;  hardware  or 
software 

•  Immediate  or  deferred  selection  in 
software  mode 

•  From  BASIC,  a  single  POKE  command 
turns  the  chassis  ON  or  OFF 

•  Compatible  with  all  software 

•  Dedicated  power  supply  with 
approved  power  transformer 

23  Mountain  Computer 

4£|  INCORPORATED* 

300  Harvey  West  Blvd.,  Santa  Cruz,  CA  95060 
(408)  429-8600  TWX  910  598-4504 


California.  I  understand  it  has  a  Fair- 
child  F-8  8-bit  microprocessor.  It  has 
1  K  bytes  of  programmable  memory 
and  4  K  bytes  of  read-only  memory. 

What  I  am  looking  for  are  cartridge 
programs,  which  have  a  45-terminal  bus, 
the  expander  sets,  or  anything  that 
would  be  interchangeable.  Also,  any  in- 
formation or  leads  would  be  gratefully 
appreciated  by  me  and  my  friends. 

Richard  L  Rowland 

7072  Kenwood 

Us  Vegas  NV  89117 


An  Overlooked  FORTH  Vendor 

The  staff  at  Datricon  Corporation  was 
both  delighted  and  disappointed  with  the 
August  1980  BYTE.  Our  delight  stems 
from  the  extensive  coverage  of  the 
language  FORTH  and  Charles  H 
Moore's  interesting  article,  'The  Evolu- 
tion of  FORTH,  an  Unusual  Language," 
page  76. 

However,  we  were  disappointed  with 
BYTE's  failure  to  mention  Datricon's 
ACS  12-PRO  or  Datricon's  4  K 
D-FORTH.  Datricon's  implementation  of 
FORTH  resides  in  4  K  bytes  of  EPROM 
(erasable  programmable  read-only 
memory),  produces  code  that  can  be 
placed  into  ROM  (read-only  memory), 
and  provides  for  interrupt  handling  and 
the  automatic  setting  of  the  data-transfer 
rate.  Our  ACS  12-PRO,  with  D-FORTH 
and  the  STD  BUS  interface,  is  a  very 
powerful  6800-based  single-board  com- 
puter. A  development  package  is  also 
available  for  generating  application 
EPROMs. 


Jed  W  Heald,  President 
Datricon  Corporation 
7911  NE  33rd  Dr 
Suite  200 
Portland  OR  97211 


We  at  BYTE  were  surprised  to  find 
additional  FORTH  vendors  advertising 
in  our  August  1980  issue.  Other  vendors 
include  Rockwell  International  (for  the 
AIM  microcomputer,  see  page  67  of  the 
August  1980  BYTE),  Kenyan 
Microsystems  (for  6809  systems,  see 
page  104  of  the  same  issue),  Sirius 
Systems  (for  the  Radio  Shack  TRS-80, 
see  page  171),  Quality  Software  (for  the 
Exidy  Sorcerer,  see  page  208),  Eric 
Rehnke  (for  the  KIM,  SYM,  and  AIM 
computers,  see  page  290),  the  Software 
Farm  (for  the  TRS-80,  see  page  292), 
and  Professional  Management  Services 
(for  the  Alpha  Micro,  see  page  294). 
FORTH  vendors  not  listed  in  the  August 
1980  BYTE  are  invited  to  submit  a  two- 
paragraph  product  release,  which  will  be 
published  in  a  future  BYTE  "What's 
New?"  column.... GW 

20       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


FORTH  Is  Better  Than  LISP,  He  Cs 

Unlike  BYTE's  earlier  issue  on  LISP, 
the  August  issue  on  FORTH  did  an  ex- 
cellent job  in  making  this  intriguing 
language  readily  understood.  The  ar- 
ticles did  not  come  right  out  and  say 
that  FORTH  is  so  machine-efficient  due 
to  the  user  preprocessing  his  logic  into 
postfix  notation,  but  most  readers 
should  realize  this. 

Although  I  can  tolerate  that  sort  of 
notation  for  a  desk  calculator,  it  is 
unbearable  for  computer  data  process- 
ing. Although  the  C  language  is 
philosophically  different,  it  is  a  threaded 
language  which  is  much  preferable. 

Dick  Sims 

185  Freeman  St,  Apt  951 

Brookline  MA  02146 


Check  Out  a  Computer 

I  always  look  forward  to  the  new 
issue  of  BYTE  and  was  especially  eager 
to  read  the  July  1980,  Computers  and 
Education  issue.  Arthur  Luehrmann's  ar- 
ticle, "Computer  Illiteracy — A  National 
Crisis  and  a  Solution  for  It,"  page  88, 
struck  home  on  a  point  with  which  I 
wholeheartedly  agree:  "this  country's 
general  public  is  woefully  ill-prepared  to 
live  and  work  in  the  Age  of  Informa- 
tion." 

I  was,  however,  disturbed  by  the  fact 
that  the  role  of  public  libraries  was 
never  mentioned.  Public  libraries  are  in 
a  unique  position  to  help  solve  the  prob- 
lem: they  serve  people  of  all  ages, 
regardless  of  educational  background; 
they  are  generally  open  more  hours  than 
schools;  they  are,  perhaps  more  than 
any  other  institution,  vitally  interested 
in  an  information-aware  public;  they 
specialize  in  providing  access  to  informa- 
tion, and  they  are  free. 

Many  public  libraries  have  microcom- 
puters available  for  public  use  and  pro- 
vide a  complement  of  interactive  pro- 
grams for  individuals  to  learn  with. 
Libraries  that  have  done  this  report  ex- 
tensive and  enthusiastic  use  of  the  equip- 
ment. 

It's  a  sorry  fact  that  most  people  have 
just  never  had  the  opportunity  to  even 
see  a  computer  system.  Until  the  oppor- 
tunity to  see,  touch,  and  use  computers 
is  afforded,  computers  will  remain 
shrouded  in  mystery  for  the  vast  major- 
ity of  people  of  all  ages.  The  public 
library  is  one  of  the  best  hopes  we  have 
to  alleviate  this  problem. 

Carlton  A  Sears 

Adult  Services  Coordinator 

Asheville-Buncombe  Library  System 

67  Haywood  St 

Asheville  NC  28801 

Letters  continued  on  page  122 

Circle  13  on  Inquiry  card.  > 


A  growing 
line  of  tools  to 
expand  the  Appl 


7440*  Programmable  Interrupt  Timer  Module. 
Time  events  in  four  operating  modes— continu- 
ous, single  shot,  frequency  comparison,  and 
pulse  width  comparison.  Includes  three  16-bit 
interval  timers,  plus  flexible  patch  area  for 
external  interface.  Programmable  interrupts, 
on-board  ROM,  and  much  more. 

7720A  Parallel  Interface. Two  bi-directional  8-bit 
I/O  ports  will  connect  your  Apple  to  a  variety  of 
parallel  devices,  including  printers,  paper  tape 
equipment,  current  relays,  external  on/off 
devices.  Full  featured,  programmable  inter- 
rupts, supports  DMA  daisy  chaining. 

781 1 B  Arithmetic  Processor.  Interfaces  with 
Applesoft,  so  you  just  plug  in  and  run.  Based 
on  the  AM  9511  device,  provides  full  16/32-bit 
arithmetic,  floating  point,  trigonometric,  loga- 
rithmic, exponential  functions.  Programmed  I/O 
data  transfer,  much,  much  more. 

7710A  Asynchronous  Serial  Interface.  Conform- 
ing to  RS-232-C  A  thru  E 1978  standard,  this 
card  will  drive  a  variety  of  serial  devices  such  as 
CRT  terminals,  printers,  paper  tape  devices,  or 
communicate  with  any  standard  RS-232  device, 
including  other  computers.  Full  hand-shaking, 
and  fully  compatible  with  Apple  PASCAL! 

7470A  3%  BCD  A/D  Converter.  Converts  a  DC 
voltage  to  a  BCD  number  for  computerized 
monitoring  and  analysis.  Typical  inputs  include 
DC  inputs  from  temperature  or  pressure 
transducers.  Single  channel  A/D,  400  ms 
per  conversion. 

7490A  6PIB  IEEE  488  Interface.  A  true  imple- 
mentation of  the  IEEE  488  standard— the 
standard  protocol  for  instrumentation  and  test 
devices.  Control  and  monitor  test  instruments 
such  as  digital  voltmeters,  plotters,  function 
generators,  or  any  other  device  using  the 
IEEE  488. 

7114A  PROM  Module.  Permits  the  addition  to  or 
replacement  of  Apple  n  firmware  without 
removing  the  Apple  II  ROMs.  Available  with 
on-board  enable/disable  toggle  switch. 

7900  A  Wire  Wrap  Board.  For  prototyping  your 
own  designs. 

7510A  Solder  Board. 

7590A  Extender  Board. 

701SA 16K  Dynamic  Memory  Add-On. 

Watch  this  space  for  new  CCS  products  for 
the  Apple.  We've  got  some  real  surprises  in  the 
works.  To  find  out  more  about  the  CCS  product 
line,  visit  your  local  computer  retailer.  The  CCS 
product  line  is  available  at  over  250  locations 
nationally,  including  most  that  carry  the  Apple. 
Or  circle  the  reader  service  number  on  this  ad. 

Apple  II,  Apple  II  Plus,  and  Applesoft  are  trademarks 
of  the  Apple  Corporation. 


CCS  makes  the  difference 


We  see  the  Apple 
a  little  di" 


''-'%■ 


We  see  it  as  a  good 
way  to  get  things  done. 

Apple  has  built  a  great  computer.  We  at  CCS  have 
built  a  great  line  of  peripherals  and  components  to  expand 
the  Apple.  To  do  almost  anything  you  want  to  get  done 
with  a  computer. 

If  you  want  to  do  business  with  an  Apple,  we've  got 
tools  to  connect  the  Apple  to  standard  business  printers  and 
terminals.  Or  to  modems,  for  communications  over  tele- 
phone lines,  with  other  computers,  even  with  other  Apples. 

If  you  want  to  apply  your  Apple  to  engineering,  scien- 
tific, or  graphic  projects,  we've  got  tools  for  high-powered, 


high-speed  math  functions,  and  fast,  high  resolution  graph- 
ics. And  tools  to  connect  the  Apple  to  lab  test  equipment 
like  function  generators  or  plotters. 

And  we  have  tools  to  connect  the  Apple  to  the  outside 
world,  including  A/D  converters  and  interval  timers  with 
external  interface. 

We  make  components  for  the  S-100  bus,  the  PET,  and 
the  TRS-80,  too.  We  built  our  products  to  deliver  hard- 
nosed  value  to  the  OEM,  and  to  the  inventor  who  knows  the 
best,  at  prices  that  are  unbeaten. 

To  find  out  how  much  computer  your  Apple  II  can  be, 
see  things  our  way.  Because  for  serious  users  with  serious 
uses  for  the  Apple,  we've  got  the  tools. 


California  Computer  Systems 

250  Caribbean    Sunnyvale,  CA  94086    (408)734-5811 


The 

Future  of 
Computer 
Graphics 


Bruce  Eric  Brown 

and 

Stephen  Levine 

Lawrence  Livermore  National  Laboratory 

University  of  California 

POB808 

Livermore  CA  94550 


Predicting  the  future  can  place  one 
in  a  very  precarious  position. 
Although  technology  is  moving  for- 
ward at  such  a  pace  that  it  is  almost 
impossible  to  look  a  long  way  down 
the  road,  we  do  have  a  good  idea  of 
what  the  near-future  trends  will  be. 
So  here  I  will  discuss  where  the  trends 
in  computer-generated  graphics  are 
headed. 

Computer  graphics  is  the  fastest- 
growing  segment  of  the  computer  in- 
dustry. Although  many  existing  com- 
puter's already  have  graphics 
capabilities,  the  future  is  even 
brighter.  Since  personal  computer 
users  will  make  up  the  largest  percen- 
tage of  the  computer  graphics 
market,  the  standard  color  television 
receiver  will  be  the  most  common 


Editor's  note: 

It  was  only  5  years  ago  when  the  first  annual 
computer  graphics  show  was  held.  The 
Philadelphia  show  was  sponsored  by  SIG- 
GRAPH  (the  Association  for  Computing 
Machinery's  Special  Interest  Group  on  Com- 
puter Graphics).  At  that  time,  the  show  at- 
tracted ten  vendors  and  a  few  hundred  visitors. 
SIGGRAPH-80,  which  was  held  this  summer  in 
Seattle,  brought  to  that  city  over  100  vendors, 
about  6000  visitors,  and  filled  twenty-four 
times  the  space  of  SIGGRAPH-75.  So  you  can 
surmise  how  the  the  computer  graphics  field 
will  continue  to  grow.... SM 


display  device.  Research  is  continual- 
ly going  on  in  video-generation 
techniques,  and  we  can  expect  the 
quality  of  video  images  to  improve 
dramatically. 

Also  on  the  horizon  is  the  use  of 
networks.  Best  of  all,  the  price  of 
graphics  systems  should  continue  to 
fall,  and  as  they  do,  the  number  of 
applications  will  increase  drastically. 

Three  Dimensions 

This  is  an  exciting  time  for  ex- 
perimentation    with     computer 


graphics.  Looking  into  our  crystal 
video  display,  we  can  see  many 
changes  coming  within  the  next  few 
years.  True  three-dimensional 
displays  will  become  common. 
Researchers  will  finally  be  able  to  see 
their  models  in  three  dimensions 
without  the  need  of  special  glasses, 
stereo  pairs,  or  by  viewing  two- 
dimensional  projections. 

Already  in  existence  are  integral 
hologram  displays  made  from 
computer-generated  images.  (An  ex- 
ample is  shown  in  photo  9.)   The 


22       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


holograms  are  made  by 
photographing  1080  computer- 
generated  images  on  35mm  film  and 
transferring  them  to  the  hologram.  In 
a  few  years  it  will  be  possible  to 
generate  these  directly;  we  might 
even  see  a  laser-driven,  computer- 
controlled,  holographic-image  output 
device. 

There  are  currently  several 
methods  in  use  for  displaying  three- 
dimensional  television  images,  but 
the  most  promising  uses  an  interlaced 
television  picture.  The  even  scan  lines 


display  an  image  for  viewing  with  the 
right  eye  and  the  odd  scan  lines  have 
an  image  for  the  left  eye.  The  screen  is 
viewed  through  a  pair  of  glasses 
whose  lenses  are  made  with  PLZT 
(lead  lanthanum  zirconate  titanate) 
ceramic.  Voltage  pulses  synchronized 
with  the  display  of  the  odd  and  even 
fields  darken  the  left  and  right  lenses 
alternately.  As  a  result,  the  viewer 
sees  a  true  three-dimensional  image. 
Photo  10  is  a  composite  view  of  a 
display  showing  the  images  for  both 
the  left  and  right  eyes. 


Photo  1:  A  computer-generated  com- 
posite view  of  a  DNA  molecule  using  both 
ball-and-stick  and  space-filling  models. 
Using  keyboard  control,  the  configuration 
of  the  model  can  be  changed  and  it  can  be 
rotated  in  any  direction.  Such  models  are 
already  assisting  scientists  in  their 
research  and  will  have  an  even  bigger  role 
in  the  coming  years.  Photo  courtesy  of 
Nelson  Max,  Lawrence  Livermore  Na- 
tional Laboratory. 

Photo  2:  Computer-generated  art  by  Los 
Angeles  artist  David  M.  As  you  can  see, 
computer  graphics  could  revolutionize  the 
world  of  art. 

Photo  3:  A  perspective  view  of  a  two- 
dimensional  array  of  numbers.  Photo 
courtesy  of  Melvin  L  Prueitt,  Los  Alamos 
Scientific  Laboratory. 
Photo  4:  Census  data  plotted  to  show 
population  changes.  This  is  an  example  of 
the  type  of  material  which  could  be 
available  on  a  computer  network  with 
wide-band  capabilities,  such  as  cable 
television.  Courtesy  of  Edward  Zimmer- 
man, White  House. 

Photo  5:  A  ground-level  view  of  a 
computer-generated  airport  scene  used  in 
a  real-time  flight  simulator.  Photo 
courtesy  of  Marconi  Radar  Systems. 


Raster-Scan  Displays 

Low-priced  memory  will  also 
change  the  look  of  computer 
graphics.  Up  to  the  present,  the 
market  has  been  dominated  by 
storage  tubes  and  calligraphic  (ie: 
stroke-writing)  displays;  however, 
raster-scan  displays  can  be  refreshed 
from  a  frame  buffer  of  semiconductor 
memory.  Therefore,  in  the  coming 
years,  we  can  expect  the  graphic- 
terminal  market  to  be  dominated  by 
raster-scan  devices.  The  standard 
display  will  be  a  color  television 
receiver  connected  as  a  mirco- 
processor-controlled  intelligent  ter- 
minal. The  cost  of  some  of  these 
graphics  terminals  will  be  at  or  near 
the  cost  of  a  modern  color  television 
receiver. 

Raster-scan  color  television  will 
probably  be  the  graphics  standard  for 
the  following  reasons: 

•  The  US  video  standard  is  well 
established. 

•  It  has  a  large  industry  supporting 
it. 

•  The  cost  of  developing  another 
standard  is  prohibitive. 

•  The  great  numbers  of  personal 
computer  users  will  help  determine 
the  trend.  Why  buy  a  color  output 
monitor  when  you  already  have 
one  or  several  available  at  home? 


November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc        23 


Top-of-the-line  video  displays  will 
include  devices  with  1000-line  resolu- 
tion (already  available)  as  well  as  a 
number  with  2000-line  resolution. 
The  cost  of  these  will  be  significantly 
higher  than  that  of  a  modern  color 
television  receiver. 

On  a  raster-scan  display,  each  dot 
on  the  screen  is  known  as  a  picture 
element  or  pixel.  Since  each  pixel  is 
displayed  30  times  a  second,  the  im- 
age generator  must  either  generate  30 
Hz  or  store  the  pixel  intensities  in 
memory.  Frame-buffer  systems  usual- 
ly use  dual-ported  memory  which 
both  stores  the  image  and  refreshes 
the  display. 

To  simplify  things,  let's  assume  a 
square  picture  with  the  standard  500 
lines  and  each  line  containing  500  pix- 
els. To  display  a  completely  black- 
and-white  line  image  with  no  shades 
of  gray  we  would  need  250,000  (500 
by  500)  bits  or  32  K  bytes  of 
memory.  In  order  to  display  gray 
levels,  the  number  of  bits  used  for 
each  pixel  must  be  increased.  To 
display  color,  we  either  divide  the 
number  of  bits  available  among  the 
three  primary  colors  (red,  green,  and 
blue)  or  use  a  color  map.  A  color  map 
takes  each  pixel  value  stored  and  out- 
puts the  three  intensities:  the  most 
common  method  is  to  use  1  byte  in- 
put and  3  byte  output.  The  number  of 
colors  which  can  be  displayed  is  the 
product  of  the  number  of  output  in- 
tensities for  each  color.  At  a  given 
time,  only  a  subset,  which  is  limited 
by  the  input  values,  can  be  displayed. 
If  we  use  8  bits  in,  24  bits  out,  we  can 
display  any  256  colors  of  the 
16,777,216  available. 

In  the  near  future  we  should  be  see- 
ing 2000-line  resolution  systems  with 
24  bits  per  pixel  (1  byte  for  each  of  the 
three  primary  colors  and  12  bits  per 
color  in  the  map).  12  megabytes  of 
memory  would  be 
needed  for  such  a  l 
system.  With 
memory  prices  ex- 
pected to  continue 
to  fall,  in  about  5 
years  the  major 
cost  element  of 
such  a  system 
would  be  the 
monitor  and  elec- 
tronics. 

Vector  Displays 

Although  it  ap- 
pears that  raster- 
scan  displays  will 

24        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publi 


have  the  major  share  of  the  graphics 
market,  line-drawing  (ie:  vector- 
display)  systems  will  continue  to 
grow,  though  at  a  slower  rate.  There 
are  basically  two  types  of  line- 
drawing  systems:  the  storage  tube 
and  the  refresh  calligraphic  writer. 

Storage  tubes  available  today  have 
higher  resolution  and  greater  image 
stability  than  most  refresh  systems. 
One  disadvantage  of  the  storage  tube 


Photo  6  (above):  An  example  of  the 
computer-generated  graphics  used  to  train 
space-shuttle  pilots  at  the  Johnson  Space 
Center  in  Houston,  Texas. 
Photo  7  (below):  The  control  panel  for  an 
experimental  fusion  reactor  at  Lawrence 
Livermore  National  Laboratory . 
Transparent  touch  panels  mounted  over 
the  color  video  displays  have  eliminated 
most  switches.  To  control  the  reactor,  the 
operators  need  only  to  touch  the  screen 
over  the  desired  control  area  shown  on 
the  screen.  Photo  courtesy  of  Glenn 
Spreckert. 


is  the  lack  of  selective  erasure.  In 
order  to  remove  one  line  the  entire 
screen  must  be  erased  and  redrawn. 
With  refresh  displays  the  line  is 
removed  from  the  display  list  and  the 
line  is  redrawn  on  the  next  refresh 
cycle. 

Calligraphic  displays  can  display 
about  20,000  three-dimensional  vec- 
tors or  100,000  two-dimensional  vec- 
tors at  30  Hz.  In  the  next  few  years  we 
can  also  expect  a  doubling  of  these 
capacities. 

Raster-scan  display  buffers  can  also 
be  used  to  display  vector  images  and 
should  begin  to  replace  calligraphic 
displays  as  faster  hardware  becomes 
available.  Many  users  will  probably 
prefer  the  somewhat  slower  speed  of 
the  raster  scan  since  they  are  able  to 
display  continuous-tone  color  im- 
ages. 

Input 

One  tool  which  should  see  much 
use  in  the  future  is  a  transparent 
touch  panel  mounted  over  the  face  of 
a  video  screen.  As  shown  in  photo  7, 
an  automated  nuclear-reactor  control 
room  is  one  of  the  many  possible  ap- 
plications. (Note  the  lack  of 
switches.) 

Hard  Copy 

Currently,  one  of  the  major  prob- 
lems of  graphic  terminal  users  is  how 
to  satisfactorily  get  hard-copy 
output.  The  most  common  method  is 
to  use  a  camera  to  take  a  picture  of 
the  video  screen.  A  device  is  also 
available  which  records  the  video 
output  directly  on  film.  Both  of  these 
methods  leave  much  to  be  desired. 
The  final  solution  may  not  necessari- 
ly come  from  the  manufacturers  of 
graphic  terminals.  The  goal  of  copy- 
ing machine  companies  is  a  dry 
method  of  putting  a  color  image  on  a 
piece  of  paper  (like 
the  current,  dry 
black-and-white- 
image  method). 
At  present,  the 
device  with  the 
highest-quality 
color  output  is 
the  film  recorder. 
For  raster  output 
devices,  the  reso- 
lution of  current 
recorders  is  4000 
by  4000  pixels, 
each  with  a  range 
of  256  intensities. 
These  devices  use 

Circle  14  on  inquiry  card.  — 


Hard  and 
Fast... 


...Bulk  Storage  from 
Industrial  Micro  Systems 


THE  NEW  MODEL  16 

The  new  Industrial  Micro  Systems  Model  16  Hard  Disk 
Subsystem  is  a  "fixed-removable"  high  speed,  bulk 
storage  device  providing  from  32  megabytes  (32 
million  characters)  to  96  megabytes  of  on-line  storage 
for  the  Industrial  Micro  Systems  8000  or  Series  5000 
microcomputer  systems.  The  Model  16  includes  a 
credenza  enclosure  that  provides  a  quiet,  strong  and 
attractive  package  for  office 
or  industrial  applications 
where  large  memory  is 
required.  The  Model  16  also 
includes  a  fully  buffered 
DMA  S-100  bus  controller  for 
fast  and  easy  interfacing. 

WINCHESTER 
TECHNOLOGY  WITH 
BUILT-IN  BACKUP 

The  Model  16  includes  a  16 
megabyte  removable 

cartridge  and  a  16,  48,  or  80 


megabyte  fixed  media  that  employs  Winchester  3340 
technology.  Files  and  programs  may  be  copied 
between  the  fixed  media  and  the  removable  cartridge 
for  fast,  easy  backup  and  archival  storage. 

FAST  ACCESS 

The  interface  between  the  Model  16  hard  disk  and  the 

Industrial  Micro  Systems 
computer  is  provided  by  the 
Hard  Disk  Controller.  The 
Hard  Disk  Controller  utilizes 
Direct  Memory  Access  (DMA) 
for  fast  data  transfer  with 
minimum  processor  interven- 
tion. The  maximum  data 
transfer  rate  is  1.2  megabytes 
per  second  and  the  controller 
fully  buffers  the  data,  a 
sector  at  a  time,  to  and  from 
the  disk.  Available  in  220  V, 
50  HZ  Versions 


Now  you  don't  have  to  look  hard  for  fast  computing  power.  Contact  your  Industrial  Micro  Systems  Dealer  today. 

INDUSTRIAL  MICRO  SYSTEMS 

Marketing  Manufacturing 

628  N.  Eckhoff,  Orange,  CA  92668  2800  Lockheed  Way,  Carson  City,  NV  89701 

(71 4)  978-6966  (702)  883-761 1 

See  us  at  Comdex  '80  Nov.  18-21,  1980  Las  Vegas  Convention  Center. 


as  many  as  seven  filters  and  multiple 
passes  are  made  on  the  film  to  create 
full-color  images.  Additive-color  red, 


Photo  8:  A  problem  in  hydrodynamics 
illustrated  through  the  use  of  computer 
graphics.  The  photo  is  part  of  a  series 
illustrating  a  steel  rod  impacting  a  steel 
plate.  Color  changes  represent  areas  of 
varying  stress.  In  the  future,  such  graphics 
will  be  widely  used  in  education.  Photo 
courtesy  of  Lawrence  Livermore  National 
Laboratory. 


1 

i^^ 

:*m 

■Si 

j 

^JP""" 

Photo  9:  Integral  hologram  of  a  molecule 
created  by  photographing  1080  computer- 
generated  images  on  35mm  film  and  then 
transferring  them  to  a  hologram.  In  the 
future  computers  will  be  able  to  generate 
holograms  directly.  Photo  courtesy  of 
Donald  L  Vickers,  Lawrence  Livermore 
National  Laboratory. 


green,  and  blue  filters  or  subtractive- 
color  yellow,  cyan,  and  magenta 
filters  are  used.  In  both  systems,  the 
seventh  color  is  neutral  for  plotting 
black-and-white  images.  We  can  ex- 
pect to  see  more  of  these  recorders 
available  in  the  near  future,  and  some 
of  the  stripped-down  models  should 
be  available  at  lower  prices. 

Another  group  of  devices  which  fit 
into  this  category  of  film  output  are 
COM  (computer-output-on-micro- 
film)  devices.  Many  of  those  current- 
ly available  have  graphic  capability 
as  well  as  variable  intensity.  At  the 
present  time,  COM  devices  are  main- 
ly used  for  alphanumeric-fiche  out- 
put. Currently  only  black-and-white 
machines  are  available,  although 
color-fiche  machines  are  expected  to 
be  produced  in  the  future.  The  most 
important  consideration  is  the  need 
for  high-quality,  large-format  color 
images.  The  resolution  of  current 
COMs  is  about  32,000  by  32,000  pix- 
els. Although  higher  resolution  is 
theoretically  possible,  such  devices 
will  not  be  produced  until  a  need  for 
them  is  demonstrated. 

Laser  recorders  may  soon  capture  a 
portion  of  the  expanding  graphics 
market.  Since  a  laser  beam  has  much 
more  energy  to  deposit  on  film  than  a 
CRT  (ie:  video  display)  image,  laser 
recorders  will  be  much  faster  than  ex- 
isting methods.  On  a  modern  film 
recorder,  one  full-intensity  pass  at 
4000  by  4000  pixels  takes  about  1 
minute.  To  record  the  same  amount 
of  data,  the  laser  requires  1  second  or 
less.  The  energy  of  a  laser  beam  is 
great  enough  that  a  split  beam  could 
record  up  to  five  copies  at  the  same 
time. 

A  current  weak  link  in  laser 
systems  is  the  deflection  systems. 
Although  solid-state  methods  are  be- 
ing developed,  rotating  mirrors  are 
used  today.  Another  drawback  with 
any  system  that  uses  film  is  that 
unless  users  have  their  own  process- 
ing facilities,  film  development  takes 
at  least  24  hours  and  sometimes  much 
longer. 

The  Xerox  6500  color  copier  can  be 
interfaced  to  a  number  of  terminals 
for  image-recording,  or  it  can  be  con- 
nected to  computers  for  direct  out- 
put. Ink-jet  plotters,  printers  with 
color  ribbons,  and  flat  bed-drum 
plotters  with  color  pens  are  included 
in  this  class  of  output  devices.  Con- 
tinued improvements  in  speed  and 
color  reproduction  can  be  expected. 

The  brightest  future  is  for  the  video 


disk.  Today,  these  devices  can  hold 
50  minutes  (180,000  frames)  of  video 
per  disk.  Although  the  initial  cost  is 
high,  the  great  number  of  frames 
available  makes  this  device  the  ideal 
output  and  storage  medium. 

Computers  —  The  Future 

Although  so  far  I've  concentrated 
on  graphics  hardware,  what  about 
the  future  of  the  beast  behind  the 
display  —  the  computer? 

It  seems  likely  that  within  a  few 
years  the  home  computer  user  will 
have  a  choice  of  several  32-bit  virtual 
machines  with  at  least  a  million 
words  of  expandable,  central  mem- 
ory, and  100  million  words  of  disk 
space.  This  type  of  system  will  be 
ideal  for  a  color-frame  buffer  system. 

Applications 

Since  pictures  are  a  very  efficient 
means  of  communication,  the  future 
applications  of  computer  graphics  are 
virtually  unlimited.  Photo  6  is  a 
photograph  of  computer-generated 
graphics  used  to  train  space-shuttle 
pilots.  Within  the  next  few  years, 
games  and  simulations  with  graphics 
of  nearly  the  same  quality  will  be 
available  to  the  personal  computer 
user.  The  PLZT  glasses  described 
earlier  will  be  used  to  provide  three- 
dimensional  images  for  the  would-be 
space-shuttle  or  747  pilot.  You  can 
also  expect  the  technology  to  be  put 
to  use  in  amusement  parks.  The 
Disneyland  people  have  already  used 
computer-generated  graphics  in  some 
of  their  attractions  and  are  continuing 
to  develop  them  for  future  use. 

Networks 

There  are  a  number  of  advantages 
to  having  your  own,  isolated  per- 
sonal computer,  but  connecting  it  to  a 
network  opens  up  a  vast  new  world. 
Networks  designed  specifically  for 
personal  computer  users,  such  as  The 
Source,  are  already  in  existence.  Un- 
fortunately, the  narrow  bandwidth  of 
conventional  voice-grade  telephone 
lines  severely  limits  graphic 
capabilities. 

One  future  possibility  is  the  use  of 
cable  television  for  networks  with 
graphic  capabilities.  Cable  is  increas- 
ingly available  in  all  but  the  most 
rural  areas  and  has  wide  bandwidth, 
portions  of  which  are  not  used.  Per- 
sonal computer  users  could  tap  into 
this  resource  and  use  the  extra  band- 
width for  local  communication  nets. 

Another  possibility  is  to  have  the 


26       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  15  on  inquiry  card. 


ATARI:  PERSONAL 

COMPUTER  SYSTEMS  THAT 

GROW  WITH  YOU 


\ 


Start  with  a  better  computer. 

Atari  computers  have  built-in  capa- 
bilities you  can't  even  add  onto 
many  other  personal  computers. 
Three  programming  formats  (ROM 
irtridge,  disk  and  cassette).  A  57  key 
ipper/lower  case  ASCII  keyboard  with 
29  keystroke  graphics  symbols.  128 
colors  and  hues.  Four  separate  sound 
channels  and  a  built-in  speaker.  Four 
controller  ports.  A  built-in  RF 

©1980,  Atari,  Inc. 

O  A  Warner  Communications  Company 

Atari  reserves  the  right  to  make  changes  to  products 
or  programs  without  notice. 


modulator  and  FCC  approval  for 
connection  to  any  TV  Plus,  nationwide 
j^.     Atari  Authorized  Service  Centers. 
And  more. 

Add  memory.  The  ATARI 

800™  is  supplied  with 
16K  of  memory.  You  can 
'expand  up  to  a  full  48K  of 
\M  with  8K  or  16K  Memory 
:  Modules™  you  install  yourself. 
In  less  than  a  minute.  The 
ATARI  400's™  8K  of  RAM  may  be 
expanded  to  16K  at  Authorized  Ser- 
vice Centers.  Both  may  be  expanded 
to  26K  of  ROM  with  slip-in  ROM 
cartridge  programs. 

Add  peripherals.  The  ATARI  410™ 
audio-digital  program  recorder.  Sin- 
gle or  dual  density*  disk  drives.  The 
ATARI  800  individually  addresses  up 
to  four  drives.  Add  the  ATARI  850' 
RS232  Interface  Module.  Add  high 
speed  40  or  8o-column  printers.  Add 
an  acoustic  modem  for  remote  data 
access.  Add  a  light  pen*  And  there 
are  more  Atari  peripherals 
on  the  way. 


ATARI 


Add  programs.  Choose  among  doz- 
ens of  programs  in  Atari's  rapidly 
expanding  software  library.  Programs 
categories  include: 

•  Personal  Finance 
&  Record  Keeping 

•  Personal  Interest  &  Development 

•  Professional  Applications 

•  Education 

•  Information  &  Communication 

•  Entertainment 

•  Programming  Languages 

•  Small  Business  Accounting 

Add  It  up.  With  Atari,  you  start 
with  more.  And  you  can  build  to 
more.  Because  Atari  offers  you  per- 
sonal computer  systems  that  grow 
with  you.  Ask  your  Atari  retailer 
to  give  you  a  full  demonstration 
of  Atari  computers,  peripherals 

and  programs.  Complete  systems. 

Because  when  other  people  were 
thinking  hardware  and  software, 
Atari  was  thinking  systems. 

•Available  Fall,  1980 


PERSONAL  COMPUTERS 

1265  Borregas  Avenue,  Sunnyvale,  CA  94086 

Call  toll-free  (800)  538-8547  (Except  Alaska  and  Hawaii) 
(In  California:  (800)  672-1404)  for  the  name  of  your  nearest  Atari  retailer. 


Circle  16  on  inquiry  card. 


Z8QOO 


The  System  X8000  MICRO-MINI™  based  on 
the  16-bit  Zilog  Z8000  processor  is  available 
for  immediate  delivery. 

FEATURES  (partial  list) 

•  Zilog  Z8000  CPU 

•  Intel  Multibus  compatible 

•  Unique  memory  management  system 
allows  up  to  16  megabytes  of  memory 

•  Optional  951 1  arithmetic  processor 

•  8-level  vectored  +  non-maskable  interrupts 

•  Two  programable  timers 

•  On-board  monitor  ROM  option 

•  Full  "Multimaster"  capabilities  allow  multiple 
processors  and/or  DMA  devices  on  the 
same  bus 

•  Flexible  and/or  hard  disk  controller 

•  Powerful  disk-based  operating  system 

•  Memory  boards:  16K,  32K,  48K,  64K,  96K, 
128K 

•  1 5- slot  backplane 

•  Heavy-duty  switching  power  supply 

•  Industrial  quality  throughout 

Prices  start  from  $998.  System  discounts. 
Call  for  prices  on  complete  custom  systems. 

SYSTEM  X9020 

(CPU  Manual  $19.95) 


$4195 


»        The  SUPER-MICRO'" 
READY  TO  RUN 


SYSTEM  FEATURES  (partial  list) 
PmcsI  MICROENGINE"  X9000 

•  16bitP-codeCPU 

•  64K  bytes  RAM/Full  DMA 

•  Floppy  disk  controller  (SS  or  DS) 

•  Floating  point  hardware  (IEEE  standard) 

•  System  software  with  enhancements 

•  2  serial,  2  parallel  ports 

•  Pascal  compiler, text  editors,  file  manager, 

CPU  &  memory  diagnostics,  symbolic  Pascal  debugger, 
linker,  utilities  and  more 
Floppy  Disk  Drive*  (2) 

•  1M  combined  memory 

•  Double  density,  single  sided 
■  Standard  8"  diskettes 

•  6  ms  track  to  track 


$900* 

With  CPU 


MODEL  X-920 

DISPLAY/EDIT  TERMINAL 

'LIMITED  TIMF  cash  price.  10%  DOWN  guarantees 

priority.  Master  Charge  &  VISA  cards  accepted. 
System  discounts 

ADM3A  f  plus  RG graphics  (512x256). ..$1995 

NEC  Spinwriter  5510  or  5530  w/trac 2895 

Anadex  DP-9500  printer  (60dpi) 1595 

X-912  CRT  (less  18  function  keys) 799 

P-E  550  CRT  ("Bantam") 740 

Siemens  standard  8"  drive  (ss/sd-dd) ....  399 


312   684-3183 


^f™  COMPUTEX 

^^k        \  Microcomputer  Syitoms      V 


Microcomputer  Syitem 

5710  Dw»l,  Chicago,  IL  60637 


Photo  10:  Interlaced  left-eye  and  right-eye  view  of  a  computer-generated  image  of  an 
aircraft  carrier.  The  image  is  viewed  in  three  dimensions  when  the  user  wears  glasses 
with  lenses  made  of  PLZT  (lead  lanthanum  zirconate  titanate)  ceramic.  The  lenses  by 
the  right  and  left  are  darkened  alternately  by  voltage  pulses  synchronized  to  the  display. 
Photo  courtesy  of  John  A  Roese  and  Larry  E  McCleary,  the  Naval  Ocean  Systems 
Center. 


cable-television  company  provide  a 
main  computer  to  control  the  net- 
work and  act  as  a  data  base.  The 
range  of  services  which  could  be  pro- 
vided is  virtually  limitless.  An  exam- 
ple is  shown  in  photo  4,  where  census 
data  has  been  plotted  to  show 
population  changes. 

Exploring  the  Future 

Computer  graphics  have  exciting 
possibilities  as  an  artistic  medium.  It's 
been  said  that  computer-generated 
color  graphics  will  revolutionize  art 
in  the  same  way  that  acrylics  changed 
the  world  of  artists  who  once  worked 
with  oil  paints.  Photo  2  shows 
computer-generated  art  by  Los 
Angeles  artist  David  M. 

The  simulators  discussed  earlier 
will  also  be  widely  used  by  film- 
makers. Special  effects,  instead  of 
being  animated  one  frame  at  a  time, 
could  be  programmed  and  filmed  in 
real  time.  For  instance,  a  director 
could  ask  for  an  airport  scene  on  a 
clear  day,  as  in  photo  5.  By  changing 
a  parameter,  the  same  scene  could  be 
created  on  a  foggy  day. 

The  motion  picture  industry  is  in 
the  forefront  of  developing  and  using 
sophisticated  systems  for  computer- 
generated  graphics.  Increasingly 
higher  levels  of  realism  will  be  created 
in  the  future  and  the  time-consuming 


tasks  of  creating  special  effects  and 
editing  will  be  performed  using  laser 
scanner/recorders  and  video  disks.  In 
terms  of  dollars,  the  movies  will  be 
one  of  the  largest  users  of  computer 
graphics  for  the  near  future. 

Applications,  as  we've  seen,  are 
limited  only  by  our  present  imagina- 
tions. Photo  1  shows  a  computer- 
generated  composite  view  of  a  DNA 
(deoxyribonucleic  acid)  molecule 
using  both  ball-and-stick  and  space- 
filling models.  Such  displays  will 
speed  up  the  rate  of  research.  The 
molecule  model  can  be  rotated, 
changed  in  configuration,  and  taken 
home  for  the  scientist  to  use  on  his 
personal  computer. 

Classroom  displays  will  greatly 
surpass  the  audio-visual  methods 
commonly  used  today.  Photo  8 
shows  a  hydrodynamic  problem  with 
impact  calculations  displayed 
through  color  changes.  A  computer 
display  of  this  sort  could  be  created 
and  updated  in  the  midst  of  a  lecture. 

In  the  wide  world  of  computer- 
graphic  applications,  we  have  only 
scratched  the  surface.  ■ 


28        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


THE  UNBEATABLE  S-100 
MEMORY 


M 


Motaanrar 


irnirr 


1  n  vi'  n 


«0UffBUDniDniaaai 
H~      T^  _  f"™     *<■*     *""■     r^V,  ^^     **"     ^^  :  ^^     "^     F^     **     ^* 

,*-'.'   .1  ..   .  .*      ~!     -!     -•     x      -1 


"■-»/ 


That's  the  MEASUREMENT  systems  &  con- 
trols   DMB    Series    of    S-100    bus    memory 
modules,    fully    compatible    with    ALPHA 
MICRO,  CROMEMCO,  NORTH  STAR,  MP/M, 
and  most  other  S-100  systems. 

Definitely  a  winner,  the  DMB  Series  is  avail- 
able with  Bank  Select  (DMB6400)  or  without 
(DM6400)  and  utilizes  industrial  quality  con- 
struction, provides  outstanding  reliability, 
and  is  backed  by  dedicated  customer  service 
and  a  one  year  guarantee. 

The  DMB6400  uses  I/O  port  addressing  for 
the  bank  select  feature.  A  switch  provides  the 
ability  to  select  any  one  of  the  256  I/O  ports 
for  addressing  the  memory  banks.  The  mem- 
ory is  configured  as  four  totally  independent 
16K  software  selectable  banks,  with  each 
bank  addressable  on  any  16K  boundary. 


Systems 


Group 


a  Division  of  MEASUREMENT  systems  &.  controls 

incorporated 


Outstanding  features  such  as  those  listed 
below  make  the  DMB  series  the  UNBEATABLE 
S-100  Memory. 

•  Four  independent  16K  software  select- 
able banks. 

•  Each  bank  is  independently  addressable 
on  any  16K  boundary. 

•  Switch  selectable  bank  sizes  —  from 
16K  to  64K  in  16K  increments. 

•  Eight  banks  (51 2K)  per  I/O  port  for  each 
of  the  256  ports. 

•  Z-80  4MHz  operation  with  no  wait 
states  using  transparent  refresh. 

•  On-board  diagnostic  LED's. 

•  Low  power  —  8  watts  maximum. 

•  Reliable,  tested  and  bumed-in  memory. 

•  IEEE  S-100  compatible  timing. 

•  One  year  guarantee. 

•  Attractive  Dealer  &  OEM  Prices. 

See  your  nearest  computer  dealer,  or  contact 
us  for  the  complete  story  on  the  UNBEAT- 
ABLE S-100  Memory. 


867  North  Main  St.  /  Orange,  Calif.  92668  /  (714)  633-4460 
TWX/TELEX:  678  401  TAB  IRIN 


30       BYTE  November  1980 


8-Et  Champion 

In  price-performance,  look  to  Intel's  powerful  iAPX  88  microprocessor 
to  leave  the  pack  behind.  Both  now  and  down  the  road. 


In  price -performance  races, 
the  iAPX  88  is  the  one  to  beat.  It's 
two  times  faster  than  the  Z-80A 
and  the  6809.  And  recent  bench- 
mark tests  show  that  the  iAPX  88, 
with  its  8088  CPU,  consistently 
outperforms  its  closest  competi- 
tors in  memory  efficiency,  ease  of 
programming  and  throughput — by 
as  much  as  4  to  1.  This  is  especially 
important  in  high-performance 
tasks  such  as  block  moves,  charac- 
ter searches,  word  shifts,  and 
16-bit  multiplies.  All  critical  for 
applications  like  word  processing, 
terminal  control,  scientific 
instrumentation  and  industrial 
control. 

And  because  it's  the  only  8-bit 
microprocessor  that  addresses  up  to 
1  million  bytes  of  memory,  the  8088 
can  take  on  large  programs.  Without 
having  to  slow  down  due  to  over- 
lays or  memory  bank  switching, 
like  other  8-bit  processors. 

Tough  price  competitor 

In  price  competition  with  other 
8-bit  microprocessors,  the  iAPX  88 
has  become  the  front  runner. 

You  save  dramatically  on 


1-Bit  Microprocessor  Price  Trends 

memory  chips,  too.  The  iAPX  88 
takes — on  the  average — 30%  less 
memory  than  competitors  for  the 
same  programs.  Then  too,  it  allows 
you  to  use  lower  cost  memory  to 
get  the  same  throughput  as 
competitors.  With  a  5 MHz 
8088,  you  can  use  our  450ns 
memories  and  still  outper- 
form a  4MHz  Z-80  requiring 
250ns  chips.  Depending  on 


the  application,  your  cost  savings 
here  can  be  substantial. 

No  contest  now  with  new 
Intel  software 

To  unleash  the  new  power  that 
the  iAPX  88  puts  in  your  hands, 
it  takes  more  powerful  software — 


the  kind  only  Intel  delivers  today. 
Software  that  produces  object  code 
directly  and  gives  you  important  ex- 
tensions that  allow  you  to  fine-tune 
the  software  to  your  application. 

Software  such  as  PASCAL-88, 
the  block-structured  application 
language  rapidly  becoming  the 
one  most  widely  used.  With  our 
PASCAL-88,  you  can  do  direct 
port  I/O  and  interrupt  handling,  as 
well  as  independent  program 
module  compilation.  And  produce 
code  that  runs  faster  than  other, 
P-code  interpreter  versions. 

Along  with  PASCAL-88,  you 
get  PL/M-88,  our  systems  imple- 
mentation language,  our  ANSI- 
compatible  FORTRAN,  and  our 
ASM- 88  macroassembler.  So  with 
more  software  capability  than 
you've  ever  had  before,  now  you 


can  choose  the  right  language  tool 
for  each  application — whatever 
it  calls  for. 

Get  out  in  front  with  complete 
development  support 

All  the  development  support 
tools  you  need  are  ready  to  go 
today  from  Intel.  Start  with  the 
Intellec®  Microcomputer  Devel- 
opment System.  Add  to  that 
our  ICE-88™  in-circuit  emulator. 
Together  they  give  you  CPU  emula- 
tion in  real  time,  plus  features  like 
symbolic  debugging,  diagnostic 
commands  and  program  trace 
capability.  With  these  tools  you'll 
get  your  products  to  market  faster 
than  by  any  other  route. 

Looking  down  the  road 

Best  of  all,  with  the  iAPX  88, 
your  investment  in  today's  solution 
is  protected.  Since  the  8088  is 
100%  object-code  compatible  with 
the  16-bit  8086 — plus  its  future 
generations,  the  iAPX  186  and 
iAPX  286 — you  have  the  industry's 
only  guaranteed  headstart  on  the 
path  to  the  future.  Regardless  of 
which  language  you're  writing  in. 

So  if  you  want  to  outdistance 
the  pack,  choose  the  iAPX  88 — 
available  today  from  your  local 
Intel  distributor.  To  get  your  copy 
of  benchmark  results,  contact  your 
local  Intel  sales  office  or  distributor. 
For  more  information  write  Intel 
Corporation,  3065  Bowers  Avenue, 
Santa  Clara,  CA  95051.  Or  call 
(408)  987-8080. 

inty  delivers 
Sutions. 

Europe:  Intel  International,  Brussels,  Belgium. 
Japan:  IntelJapan, Tokyo.  United  States  and  Canadian 
distributors:  Alliance,  Almac/Stroum,  Arrow  Electronics, 
Avnet  Electronics,  Component  Specialties,  Hamilton/Avnet, 
Hamilton /Electro  Sales,  Harvey,  Industrial  Components, 
Pioneer,  L.A.  Varah,  Wyle  Distribution  Group,  Zentronics. 


Circle  17  on  Inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980        31 


Gispcisfe  Gipcuit  Qellsp 

Copyright  €'  1980  by  Steven  A  Ciarda.  All  rights  reserved. 


Home  In  on  the  Range! 

An  Ultrasonic  Ranging  System 


Steve  Ciarcia 

POB  582 

Glastonbury  CT  06033 


Each  month  I  try  to  present  a  hard- 
ware project  that  is  both  interesting 
and  relatively  easy  to  build.  Unfor- 
tunately, it's  not  as  simple  as  picking 
a  topic  and  quickly  whipping  up 
some  circuit.  More  often  than  not,  I 
have  a  number  of  potential  topics  and 
projects  on  the  fire  at  the  same  time. 
Some  are  in  limbo  and  just  waiting 
for  the  right  parts.  Others  are  post- 
poned when  it  turns  out  that  the  nec- 
essary hardware  is  something  that 
could  be  better  built  by  NASA 
(National  Aeronautics  and  Space 
Administration)  than  by  a  computer 
hobbyist. 

One  topic  that  has  always  in- 
terested me  is  the  concept  of  auto- 
matic ranging.  I  became  involved 
with  this  idea  when  I  wrote  an  article 
entitled  "I've  Got  You  In  My 
Scanner,"  November  1978  BYTE, 
page  76.  The  original  article  was 
about  an  infrared  sensor  and  par- 
abolic reflector  mounted  to  rotate  on 
a  stepper-motor  shaft.  With  com- 
puter-controlled stepping,  the  result 
was  something  like  the  sweep  of  a 
radar  antenna.  The  project  was  sen- 
sitive to  infrared  and  visible  light. 

The  scanner,  parabolic-reflector, 
and  stepper-motor  combination 
could  easily  tell  the  direction  of  a 
light  source  to  an  angular  resolution 


Diagrams  and  schematics  of  the  Ultra- 
sonic Ranging  System  Designer's  Kit  were 
provided  through  the  courtesy  of  Polaroid 
Corporation. 


of  7.5°.  It  could  make  a  180°  sweep, 
stop,  and  then  follow  the  brightest 
object    in    its    field    of    view.    By 


Photo  1:  A  computer-controlled,  stepper- 
motor-driven  infrared  and  ultrasonic 
ranging  scanner.  An  infrared-sensitive 
photo  Darlington  transistor  (GE  L14F2)  is 
mounted  at  the  focus  of  a  parabolic  reflec- 
tor, which  is  attached  to  the  shaft  of  a 
stepper  motor;  the  ultrasonic  transducer  is 
mounted  above  it. 

The  infrared  sensor  and  drive 
mechanism  were  described  in  a  previous 
Circuit  Cellar  article,  "I've  Got  You  in  My 
Scanner!  A  Computer  Controlled  Stepper 
Motor  Light  Scanner. " 


recognizing  the  absence  of  known 
light  sources  (when  the  light  path  is 
blocked),  it  could  even  function  as 
part  of  an  intrusion  alarm. 

However,  even  though  it  could 
"see,"  the  infrared  scanner  could  not 
tell  how  far  an  object  was  in  front  of 
it,  or  detect  the  presence  of  a  non- 
luminous  body  crossing  its  path. 
What  I  really  wanted  was  a  device 
that  could  provide  the  computer  with 
range  as  well  as  direction.  That's 
when  I  started  hanging  around  the 
camera  shop. 

Polaroid  to  the  Rescue 

The  automatic  focusing  system  on 
the  Polaroid  SX-70  Sonar  OneStep 
Land  camera  intrigued  me.  I  had  con- 
sidered tearing  a  camera  apart  just  to 
use  the  ranging  unit  for  my  scanner, 
but  sanity  prevailed  and  I  went  back 
to  designing  my  own  circuit.  Some- 
where between  thoughts  of  "Who'd 
really  build  this  thing  anyway?"  and 
"I  hope  everyone  can  find  all  these 
components,"  I  started  seeing  ads 
from  Polaroid  offering  just  what  I 
wanted,  without  the  camera. 

The  solution  came  in  the  form  of  an 
Ultrasonic  Ranging  System  Designer's 
Kit  sold  by  Polaroid  for  $125.  The  kit 
contains  a  technical  manual,  two 
instrument-grade  electrostatic  ultra- 
sonic transducers,  a  modified  SX-70 
ultrasonic  circuit  board,  an  ex- 
perimental demonstrator  display 
board,  and  two  Polapulse  6  V  bat- 
teries. With  this  unit  I  was  able  to 
enhance  my  original  infrared-scanner 


32        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  18  on  inquiry  card. 


Now!  North  Star 
Applioation  Software! 


North  Star  now  offers  application 
software  for  use  on  the  HORIZON! 
Now  you  have  one  reliable  source 
for  both  hardware  and  software 
needs!  The  first  packages  avail- 
able are: 

North  Word— 

NorthWord  is  a  simple-to-operate 
word  processing  system  designed 
for  use  with  the  popular  North  Star 
HORIZON.  NorthWord  enables  you 
to  increase  office  efficiency  and  cut 
document  typing  time  and  cost. 
NorthWord  incorporates  the  most 
sought-after  word  processing  fea- 
tures: easy  editing,  on-screen  text 
formatting,  simultaneous  document 
printing,  and  much  more.  NorthWord 
can  be  integrated  with  other  North 
Star  software  packages  to  produce 
customized  letters,  labels  and 
reports  quickly  and  efficiently. 


MailManager — 

MailManager  enables  you  to  com- 
pile and  maintain  complete  organ- 
ized mailing  lists.  Lists  are  easily 
accessible  and  can  be  compiled 
with  a  great  deal  of  flexibility.  Entries, 
corrections  and  deletions  are  easily 
made.  The  North  Star  MailManager 
can  print  your  list  on  individual  enve- 
lopes, on  mailing  labels,  or  in  com- 
pact summary  form. 

InfoManager — 

InfoManager  is  a  powerful  list- 
oriented,  data  management  system. 
It  will  accept  up  to  50  categories  of 
information  for  each  record  and  has 
the  ability  to  select  and  sort  before 
printing.  The  North  Star  InfoManager 
has  power  and  flexibility  for  many 
applications:  product  inquiry,  in- 
ventory, customer/client  records, 
calendar  reminders,  and  as  an  easy 
way  to  fill  in  often-used  forms. 


S 


GeneralLedger — 

General  Ledger  and  Financial 
Reporting,  two  programs  in  one, 
maintains  general  ledger  accounts 
based  on  such  input  as  checks, 
bank  deposits  and  journal  entries, 
and  uses  the  information  in  the 
general  ledger  to  produce  custom- 
ized financial  statements  and 
financial  reports. 

NorthWord  is  the  central  building 
block  for  all  the  North  Star  applica- 
tion software  to  follow.  Packages 
now  being  tested  include  other 
accounting  and  professional  appli- 
cation packages.  For  more  informa- 
tion or  a  demonstration,  contact 
your  local  North  Star  dealer. 

NorthStar^ 

North  Star  Computers,  Inc. 
1440  Fourth  Street 
Berkeley,  CA  94710 
(415)  527-6950 
TWX/Telex  910-366-7001 


>k: 


NorthSior 


NorthWord 


v*"*N     v*^     vvaW^* 


design  to  include  automatic  range 
detection.  The  new  scanner  system 
incorporating  the  Polaroid  unit  is 
shown  in  photo  1.  More  on  this  later. 

Polaroid  Ultrasonic  Ranging 
System 

The  Polaroid  Ultrasonic  Ranging 


System  Designer's  Kit  costs  $125 
(This  offer  is  good  until  December  31, 
1980.  Photo  2  shows  the  Designer's 
Kit  as  received.),  and  is  available 
from: 

Polaroid  Corporation 
Ultrasonic  Ranging  Marketing 


ULTRASONrC     0!SG\ERS 
RANGNG  KIT 

SVSTEM 


itrrt/ttt/////// 


.4*m*k 


Photo  2:  Polaroid  Ultrasonic  Ranging  System  Designer's  Kit,  which  includes  ultrasonic 
sonar  transducers,  electronic  circuitry,  and  a  detailed  specifications  booklet. 


Department  465  E 
20  Ames  St 
Cambridge  MA  02139 
telephone  (800)  225-1618 


Two  primary  components  compose 
the  ranging  unit.  They  are  the  elec- 
trostatic transducer  (see  photo  3)  and 
the  ultrasonic  transceiver  board  (see 
photo  4).  Together  these  components 
are  capable  of  detecting  the  presence 
and  distance  of  objects  within  a  range 
of  approximately  0.9  feet  (0.3  meters) 
to  35  feet  (10.6  meters)  with  a  resolu- 
tion of  ±  1.2  inches  (±  30  mm,  or 
0.29%  of  range). 

In  operation,  a  pulse  is  transmitted 
toward  a  target,  and  the  resulting 
echo  is  detected.  The  elapsed  time 
between  initial  transmission  and  echo 
detection  can  be  used  to  find  the  dis- 
tance by  taking  this  round-trip  time 
and  multiplying  it  by  the  speed  of 
sound.  For  a  transmitted  pulse  to 
leave  the  transducer,  strike  a  target  2 
feet  (0.61  meters)  away,  and  return  to 
the  transducer,  it  requires  3.55  ms 
(1.78  ms  per  foot,  or  5.84  ms  per 
meter,  during  the  round  trip). 

Essential  to  system  operation  is  the 
transducer  (shown  disassembled  in 
photo  5).  It  acts  as  a  speaker  in  the 
transmit  mode  and  as  an  electrostatic 
microphone  in  the  receive  mode.  The 
transducer  is  1.5  inches  (38.1  mm)  in 
diameter  and  consists  of  a  0.003  inch 
(0.07  mm)-thick  gold-plated  foil 
stretched     over    a     concentrically 


Photo  3:  Close-up  view  of  the  Polaroid 
Ultrasonic  Transducer. 


Photo  4:  Close-up  of  the  ultrasonic  circuit  board,  which  contains  custom  analog  and 
digital  integrated  circuits. 


34       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  19  on  inquiry  card. 


National  Microsoftware  Producers 

ANNOUNCES 


Video  Typing  System  for  8080,  8085  and  Z80's 

PROFESSIONAL  QUALITY 

WORD  PROCESSING  PACKAGE  FOR 

CP/AA*  COMPATIBLE  MICROCOMPUTERS 


«■  , 


SOFTWARE 


CP/M  COMPATIBLE 

EASILY  OPERATED  BY 
OFFICE  PERSONNEL 


CONTAINS  ALL 
PROFESSIONAL  WORD 
PROCESSING  FEATURES 

PROMPTS  ON  SCREEN 
GUIDE  USER  THROUGH 
FUNCTIONS 

COMPARABLE  TO  DEC, 
NBI,  Q  YX.  WANG   .   .   . 


HARDWARE 

OPERATES  ON  8080,  8085 
AND  Z80  MICRO 
COMPUTERS   WITH    48K 
MEMORY 

•  CHOICE   OF    5"   OR    8" 
FLOPPY  DISKETTES 

-   REPLACEMENT   KEYTOPS 
PROVIDED     FOR     MOST 
CRT's 

1  SUPPORTS   SERIAL   AND 
WORD  QUALITY 
PRINTERS  (DIABLO,  NEC, 
QUME) 


PACKAGE 


REPLACEMENT   KEYTOPS 
COLOR  CODED  BY 
FUNCTION 

•  MANUALWITH 
EXTENSIVE  GRAPHICS 
DESIGNED  FOR  THE 
FIRST-TIME  USER 

•  SELF  STANDING  MANUAL 
IN  EASEL  BINDER 

•  SPANISH,  FRENCH, 
GERMAN, DUTCH 
VERSIONS  AVAILABLE 


THORIZED  DEALERS  AND  DISTRIBUTORS  [ 


TED 
SUGGESTED  RETAIL  PRICE    $549.00 


~^  National  Microsoftware  Producers,  i 
i))     3169   Fillmore  Street 

San  Francisco      CA  94123         USA 
_>   415-346-7025  Telex   171790 


we  cut  taxes  7% 
up  the  prime  rate 
2%  double  defense 
spending,  while 
eliminating  Saturday 
mail  delivery? 

T/MAKER  helps  me 
juggle  the  imponderables 
fast  and  gives  me  a  national 
overview  on  my  CRTscreen.(Yukl) 

T/MAKER  can  integrate  numerical  and 
text  data,  making  analysis  easy  and 
then  print  out  a  document  in  hard  copy 
for  the  clods  on  Capitol  Hill. 

T/MAKER  is  a  wonderful  tool  for  data 
analysis.  It  is  easy  to  set  up  calculations 
for  rows  and  columns  of  tabular  data, 
automatically  perform  the 
computations,  review  the  results  and 
then  modify  some  of  the  data  to  see  the 
impact  on  the  over  all  results.  Several 
days  of  manual  work  can  be 
accomplished  in  minutes. 

T/MAKER  is  a  full  screen  editor  for  word 
processing  which  handles  text  up  to  255 
characters  wide.  It  includes  features  like 
text  formatting  and  justification,  text 
buffer  for  block  moves  and  repeated 
inserts,  global  search  and  replace  and 
commands  for  printing  your  letters, 
reports  and  documents. 

T/MAKER  can  perform  an  unlimited 
number  of  analysis  and  reporting  tasks 
which  integrate  numerical  and  text 
processing.  For  example: 

•  Financial  Statements 'Balance  Sheets 

•  Statistics  •  Growth  &  Projections  • 
Profitability  Reports  •  Revenues  & 
Expenditures  •  Portfolio  Analysis*  Price 
Lists  •  Rate  Structures  •  Inventory 
Valuation and  much,  much  more. 

T/MAKER  requires  a  48K  CP/M  system, 
a  total  of  240K  bytes  of  disk  storage, 
CBASIC-2,  and  a  CRT  computer 
terminal  with  cursor  addressing  and 
clear  screen. 

T/MAKER  system  is  $275.00  complete 
with  documentation  and  quick- 
reference  card. 
Documentation  alone  is  $25.00. 


LIFEBOAT 
ASSOCIATES 

1651  Third  Ave.  NY,  NY  10028 

(212)  860-0300 
International  Telex  220501 

T/MAKER  is  a  trademark 
of  P.  Roizen 
CP/M  is  a  trademark 
of  Digital  Research 


grooved  aluminum  plate.  When  the 
metallic  backplate  is  in  proximity  to 
the  foil,  it  forms  a  capacitor.  The  foil 
is  the  moving  element  which  converts 
electrical  energy  into  sound  and  the 
returning  echo  into  electrical  energy. 
The  diameter  of  the  transducer  de- 
termines   the    directionality    of    the 


transducer.  The  acoustical  signal- 
strength  lobe  pattern,  or  acceptance 
angle,  during  operation  is  shown  in 
figure  1.  The  graph  indicates  that  the 
transducer  is  fairly  directional. 

When  the  unit  is  activated,  the 
transducer  emits  a  sound  pulse.  The 
crystal-controlled    electrical    pulse 


(la) 


— r— 
50 


— r~ 

70 


- J— 
90 


~ I 
100 


TYPICAL  TRANSMIT  RESPONSE 


(lb) 


10kHz  20 


50 


—J— 
70 


80 


- r- 

90 


— I 
100 


TYPICAL  FREE-FIELD  RECEIVE  RESPONSE 


TYPICAL  BEAM  PATTERN 
AT  50  kHz 


Figure  1:  Typical  transmission  frequency-response  curve  (la),  reception  frequency- 
response  curve  (lb),  and  radial-beam  pattern  (lc)  of  the  Polaroid  ultrasonic  transducer. 
The  beam  pattern  was  measured  at  50  kHz,  with  dB  values  normalized  to  on-axis 
response. 


36       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  20  on  Inquiry  card. 


Memory  Expansion  Module 


for  TRS-80.. 


All  you  have 
to  remember 
is  to  plug  it  in 

Introducing  the  MT-32.  Our  new,  brilliantly 
designed  Printer/Memory  expansion  module 
for  the  TRS-80.  This  unit  will  add  16K  or  32K 
of  dynamic  RAM  to  your  basic  16K  machine. 
The  module  also  contains  circuitry  to  drive 
Microtek's  MT-80P  dot  matrix  printer,  or  any 
other  Centronics-compatible  printer. 

No  hardware  modification  to  your  TRS-80  is 
required.  Just  plug  into  your  bus  connector 
and  you  are  ready  to  go. 

All  Microtek  products  are  covered  by  a  one 
year  warranty. 


Three  assembled  and 
tested  configura- 
tions are  available: 


Without  RAM 
(MT-32A®  $119.50) 


With  16K  RAM 
(MT-32B®  $159.50) 


With  32K  RAM 
(MT-32C®  $199.50) 


* 


TRS-80  is  a  Registered  Trademark  of  Tandy  Corp. 


Available  from  Microtek 

or  your  nearest  computer  dealer. 


9514  Chesapeake  Drive 

San  Diego,  CA  92123 

Tel.  (714)  278-0633 

Outside  Calif,  call  toll  free:  800-854-1081 

TWX  910-335-1269 


MEM0I1Y  TRANSPLANT 


Circle  21  on  inquiry  card. 


SPECIALS 


■T"?  'Fl^. 


NORTH    STAR   HORIZON: 

HRZ-2-32K-DD-ASM $2275 

HRZ-2-32K-Q-ASM $2675 

NORTHWORD  DQ $  295 

MAIL  MANAGER $  235 

INFO-MANAGER $  365 

GENERAL  LEGER $  775 

ACC.  REC.  OR  ACC.  PAY..$  445 

WORD  STAR $ 

COMMODORE  (PET) : 


320 


2001  32K $1090 

8032  (80  COLUMN  SCREEN) $1599 

2040  DUAL  DRIVE $1090 

8050  DUAL  DRIVE  (1MEG).$1499 
2022  TRACTOR  PRINTER. .. $  749 


APPLE  II  PLUS    CALL  FOR  PRICE 

ATARI  800 $  799 

TI  99/4  CONSOLE&MONITOR..$  1190 


SPINWRITERS  FROM  NEC: 

5510  RO  OR  5530  RO      $2490 

5520  KSR  SERIAL $2790 

CENTRONICS: 


730 $  659 

737-1  (LETTER  QUALITY)  $  849 
(WE  CARRY  THEIR  COMPLETE  LINE) 
PAPER  TIGER  440G $  990 


BASE  II  800MST $  649 


OTHER  PRINTERS  WE  STOCK: 
ANADEX ,  COMPRI  NT ,  EATON .  EPSON , 
TELETYPE, TI,ETC-CALL  FOR  PRICE 
DISPLAY  TERMINALS 


HAZELTINE  1420 $  949 

1500 $  999 

(WE  CARRY  THEIR  COMPLETE  LINE) 
INTERTUBE  II $  775 


TELEVIDEO  914 $  850 


MOST  ITEMS  IN  STOCK. 
PRICES  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE 


MULTI-BUSINESS  COMPUTER  SYS 
28  MARLBOROUGH  STREET 
PORTLAND,  CONN.  06480 


(203)342-2747  TWX  710-428-6345 
M-F  9-6  SAT. 9:30-3:00 


Photo  5:  Expanded  view  of  the  Polaroid  ultrasonic  sonar  transducer.  Behind  a 
honeycomb  grill,  a  0.003-inch  (0.07  mm)-thick  gold-coated  foil  stretches  over  a 
concentrically  grooved  aluminum  plate.  The  retainer  at  left  holds  the  parts  in  place. 


Photo  6:   The  EDB,  which  contains  the  electronic  circuitry  shown  in  figure  4.  The  three- 
digit  LED  display  is  at  the  upper  right. 


generated  by  the  driver  circuit  is  a 
300  V  high-frequency  1  ms  "chirp" 
consisting  of  fifty-six  pulses  at  four 
carefully  chosen  frequencies:  eight 
cycles  at  60  kHz,  eight  cycles  at 
57  kHz,  sixteen  cycles  at  53  kHz,  and 
twenty-four  cycles  at  50  kHz.   This 


combination  is  used  to  overcome  cer- 
tain topographical  characteristics  of 
the  area  into  which  the  signal  is  being 
transmitted,  where  a  single  frequency 
might  be  cancelled  and  no  echo 
would  be  received. 

Text  continued  on  page  42 


38       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  22  on  inquiry  card. 


^iSfeRMANENT  RELIEF 


Word  Processing  problems 


O; ,  ^ 


'^m 


Apple  PIE 


+ 


Formatter 


Apple  PIE  (Programma  International  Editor) 
and  FORMAT  (text  formatter)  offer  full  strength 
solutions  to  today's  word  processing  problems. 
These  versatile,  powerful  programs  provide 
document  preparation  and  word  processing 
capabilities  previously  found  only  on  much  larger 
computer  systems. 

PIE  is  a  general  purpose,  full  screen  editor 
that  uses  control  keys  and  function  buttons  to 
provide  a  full  range  of  editing  capabilities  such  as 
search  and  replace,  delete,  copy,  insert,  move. 
Changes  may  be  made  directly  anywhere  on  the 
screen  and  are  shown  as  they  are  performed. 

FORMAT  uses  simple  instructions 
embedded  in  the  input  text  to  describe  the  desired 
appearance  of  the  final  document.  It  handles 
centering,  underlining,  indenting,  page  numbering, 


Simple  enough  for  the  beginner.   Versatile  enough  for  the  professional. 


margins,  headers,  footers,  even  form  letters 
includes  a  proofing  capability. 

These  high-quality,  cost-effective  programs 
come  with  comprehensive  documentation  and  run 
on  a  32K  Apple  II.  They  are  available  through 
your  local  computer  store  or  direct  from 
Programma  International,  Inc.  at  the 
introductory  price  of  $79.95*. 

VIDEX  VERSION     T.M. 

DOUBLE  VISION     T.M. 

SUPR  TERM  VERSION     T.M. 

STANDARD  VERSION 
♦December  1,  $129.95. 

PROGRAMMA 

3400  Wilshire  Boulevard 

Los  Angeles,  California  90010 


Photo  7:  The  prototype  of  the  interface  circuit  of  figure  5  has 
been  attached  to  the  EDB.  The  interface  allows  a  computer  to 
read  the  three-digit  distance  value. 


Photo   8:  Close-up   of   the   back   side   of  the   reflector  and 
transducer  of  the  scanner,  showing  the  mounting  apparatus. 


THERE  IS  A  BETTER  WAY: 

XX  II  for  the  8086/8088 . .  .only  $175. 

A.C.T.  II  (Assembly  Coded  Translator)  is  a  cross-assembler  that  lets  you  develop  8086/8088  code  on  any  CP/M  based 

8080.  8085,  or  Z80  machine.  Compare  with  competing  software:  A.C.T.  II  supports  more  Intel  mnemonics  and  costs  less, 
while  delivering  features  such  as  assembly  speeds  greater  than  1 000  lines/  minute,  macro  support,  a  comprehensive  set  of 
pseudo-ops,  absolute  assemblies,  system  text  file  support,  local  proc  definition,  code  file  format  (standard  Intel  hex),  and 
many  more  special  features. 

A.C.T.  II  fits  in  24K  of  RAM  (including  CP/  M).  Complete  with  manual  (available  separately  for  $20)  and  sample  programs. 
A.C.T.  I  IS  ALSO  AVAILABLE.  Develop  6502, 6800, 8080, 8085,  and  Z80  code  on  any  8080, 8085,  or  Z80  machine  running 
8fc     under  CP/M.  Same  features  as  A.C.T.  II ;  $125  with  manual  (manual  available  separately  for  $15). 

SPECIAL  COMBINATION  PRICE :    For  a  limited  time,  A.C.T.  I  and  A.C.T.  II  are  available  for  $225  including  all  manuals. 

— »-__  .         order  —  call  408-248-5543 

PASCAL  at  a  Basic  Price :  $  175  complete  :-v,  :,..;-„      .■ 

CP/M  compatible  PASCAL/M  includes  features  such  as  built-in  error  checking,  console  cursor  ^^_^^^^ 

controls,  extensions  chosen  for  campatibility  with  other  popular  PASCALS,  complete  random  file  and  A             CV ~)0(      \/\/\ 

long  integer(32  bit)  support,  full  Wirth  implementation,  all  I/O  totally  compatible  with  CP/M  file  ^k          UV7IW/I/   V    I 

strui  'ure.  optional  updating  service,  full  access  to  CP/M  data  files  written  in  other  languages  and  ^^   A 

stored  underCP/M,  and  much  more.  ^&l 

PASCAL/Mfits  in56Kof  RAM  (Including  CP/M)  and  includes  a  90  page  manual  (available  S  IP* 
separately  for  $10).  You  may  never  go  back  to  BASIC  again ! 

How  to  order:    All  disks  are  shipped  on  single-sided,  single-density,  soft-sectored  CP/M  compatible  media.  p  _    R_„  •vjene 

PASCAL/M:  Specify  Z80.S080.  or  Z80+9511  math  chip  version  (all  are  $175).  We  accept  UPS  COD,  Mastercard®        rSJ.  OUA  JZOUO  ,__„.„.      „.„ 
-  VISA®,  personal  checks(allowtime  to  clear),  and  certified  checks.  Californians  add  sales  tax.  Add  $10  outside  USA.       SAN  JOSE,     CALIFORNIA    9515^ 


40      November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  23  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  24  on  inquiry  card. 


NEW  DISK  SYSTEM 
POLISHES  APPLE 


■*  -TRfW      -»7 


1 1 

• 


Micro-Sci's  new  disk  drive  family 
really  makes  your  Apple  shine. 

Both  the  A-40  and  A-70  offer 
extra  performance  phis  the  ability 
to  read  existing  diskettes  written 
on  Apple  Disk  II  systems. 

And  a  jumper  selectable  boot 
prom  for  13  and  16  sector  interger 
Bask  or  8  sector  Pascal  comes 
standard. 

The  Model  A-40  actually  costs 
a  lot  less  than  Apple  Disk  II  drives. 
Yet  it  provides  40  tracks  instead  of 


35,  along  with  up  to  20K  increase 
in  capacity.  Maybe  an  extra  20K  isn't 
anything  to  write  home  about,  but 
the  speed  sure  is— 5  ms  track  to 
track  vs.  Apple's  15  ms. 

The  Model  A-70,  on  the  other 
hand,  features  twice  the  tracks  and 
capacity  of  the  Apple  Disk  II,  but 
it  costs  only  a  few  dollars  more. 

The  secret  of  outstanding  per- 
formance and  reliability  is  a  state- 
of-the-art  design  incorporating  a 
band  positioner,  instead  of  a  plastic 


jut-so 


cam,  plus  an  improved  media 
centering  system. 

SPECIAL  DISCOUNT. 

One  A-40  plus  controller  is  priced 
at  only  $495  and  the  second  drive 
is  Just  $395.  You  can  save 
up  to  $200  per  system  over  Apple  II 
drive  prices. 

And  you  can  save  even  more  if 
you  act  now.  Contact  us  today  for 
a  special  $50  introductory  discount 
on  your  Micro-Sci  A-40  or  A-70 
system  order. 


MICRO-SCI 
1405  E.  CHAPMAN  AVENUE  •  SUETE  E  •  ORANGE.  CALIFORNIA  92666 

MICRO-SCI  IS  A  DIVISION  OF  SIRNDUN  CONTROLS,  INC. 
Apple  and  Apple  II  are  registered  trademarks  of  APPLE  COMPUTERS  INC..  SAN  JOSE.  CALIFORNIA 


714/997-9260 


TRANSDUCER 


POWER 

INTERFACE 

CIRCUIT 


fCLOCKl— »         DIGITAL        <l         ' 

\l^J  section       J 


PROCESSED 
ECHO 


GAIN  AND  BANDWIDTH' 
CONTROL 


NALOG 
IRCUIT  J 


USER 
HARDWARE 


TRANSMITTED 
PULSE 


) 


REFLECTED 
ECHO 


Figure  2:  Block  diagram  of  the  ultrasonic  circuit.  The  circuit  board  contains  a  variety  of 
custom  components  and  is  slightly  modified  from  the  unit  used  in  SX-70  Land  cameras. 
This  circuit,  as  well  as  the  EDB,  is  powered  by  a  6  V  Polapulse  battery.  It  seemed  to 
work  acceptably  with  a  5  VDC  power  supply. 

The  block  labelled  "User  Hardware"  can  be  the  EDB  or  any  interface  that  can  convert 
the  ultrasonic  circuit  board's  time-gated  output  into  useful  form. 


Text  continued  from  page  38: 

The  ultrasonic  circuit  board  con- 
trols both  the  transmit  and  receive 
operating  modes.  It  contains  both 
digital  and  analog  circuitry.  In  addi- 
tion to  transmitting  the  chirp  and 
processing  the  echo,  this  circuit  also 
tailors  the  amplifier  sensitivity 
depending  upon  the  object  distance. 
Lower  amplification  is  needed  for 
close  echoes,  while  higher  amplifica- 
tion is  needed  for  distant  echoes.  This 
is  accomplished  by  increasing  the 
amplifier  gain  and  Q  (ratio  of  re- 
actance to  resistance)  in  steps.  Figure 
2  is  a  block  diagram  of  the  ultrasonic 
circuit  board. 

Experimental  Demonstration 
Board 

The  ultrasonic  circuit  board 
previously  described  is  a  modified 
camera  assembly.  The  EDB  (Experi- 
mental Demonstration  Board,  shown 
in  photo  6)  is  not  a  camera  compon- 
ent; it  was  designed  specifically  as  a 
user  interface  to  the  ultrasonic  board. 
Text  continued  on  page  48 


POWER 
SUPPLY 


+  6V 


►vcc 


GND 


ULTRASONIC 

CIRCUIT 

BOARD 


GND 


VSW 
~LT 


MFLOG 


XLOG 


<     TRANSDUCER 


i 


EXPERIMENTAL    DEMONSTRATION    BOARD 


ON/OFF 
SWITCH 


420   kHz 

CLOCK 

CIRCUIT 


SYSTEM 

CLOCK    CIRCUIT 
5  Hz 


SET 
REFERENCE 


RESET 


TEl  I 


SR    -L 


TIME-TO-DISTANCE 
CONVERSION 


Al 

4  6/is 

PER    CYCLE 


12    INCHES/CYCLE 
178/is  /CYCLE 


AC 

COUPLING 


SR  1 


LC 


RESET 


SET 


ECHO 
LATCH 


OF    1 

1000  COUNTS 
OF  A7 
178ms 


DLE 

T 


LE 


AC 
COUPLING 


MASTER 
RESET 


SCANNING   CLOCK 
CLOCK  INPUT 

SCANNING    OUTPUTS 


LATCH 
ENABLE 


3-DIGIT    BINARY 
COUNTER 


MULTIPLEXED    BCD  OUTPUTS 


3-DIGIT 
DISPLAY 


I 


DS, 


DS, 


DS 


DRIVE 
CIRCUIT 


Qo 


BCD-TO-SEVEN- 
SEGMENT    CONVERSION 


DRIVE 
CIRCUIT 


Figure  3:  Block  diagram  of  the  Polaroid  Experimental  Demonstration  Board. 

42        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  25  on  inquiry  card. 


Even  at  5: 12  a.m. ,  it's  hard  to  quit 
playing  Personal  Software™ strategy  games. 


Gammon  Gambler 


A  quick  game  before  turning  in  can  become  an  all-night 
session  when  you  load  any  of  the  Personal  Software '"  strategy 
games  into  your  Apple*  PET*  or  TRS-80.*  They'll  challenge, 
teach  and  entertain  you.  And  now  there  are  two  new  games- 
Gammon  Gambler'"  and  Checker  King  * —joining  Bridge 
Partner,"  Time  Trek '"  and  the  best-selling  Microchess." 

Gammon  Gambler  is  a  sure  bet.  With  ten  levels  of  skill, 
you  can  begin  a  novice  and  become 
an  expert.  Whichever  level  you  play, 
the  computer  moves  so  quickly 
you  don't  have  to  wait.  The 
program  follows  U.S. 
tournament  rules,  and  in- 
cludes the  doubling 
cube  to  spice  up  the 
game.  Written  for 
the  Apple  and 
PET  by  Willy 
Chaplin. 
Checker  King— you  probably  forgot 
how  much  fun  it  is!  If  you  move  and 
change  your  mind,  take  it  back  and  move 
again— without  a  peep  from  the  computer. 
Play  eight  skill  levels.  Add  and  remove 
pieces.  Save  three  board  positions  for  later 
play.  And  solve  three  challenging  checker 
puzzles.  Written  by  Michael  Marks  for 
the  Apple,  PET  and  TRS-80. 

Microchess,  the  most  widely  used 
personal  computer  chess  program,  is  a 
nearly  perfect  chess  opponent  for  the  total 
novice  or  the  advanced  enthusiast.  Written 
by  Peter  Jennings  for  the  Apple,  PET  and 
TRS-80. 

"Apple  is  a  trademark  of  Apple  Computer,  Inc.;  PET  is  a 
trademark  of  Commodore  Business  Machines,  Inc.;  TRS-80  is    ^m| 
a  trademark  of  the  Radio  Shack  Division  of  Tandy  Corp.  Mfflt 


Bridge  Partner.  You  against  the  computer  in  over  10  million 
different  hands  of  contract  bridge.  You  can  even  specify  the 
hands'  high  card  points.  Written  by  George  Duisman  for  the  Ap- 
ple, PET  and  Level  II  TRS-80. 

Time  Trek  is  easy  to  learn,  dif- 
ficult to  master  and  impossible  to 
forget.  Take  command  of  a  starship 
in  real-time  action  to  make  the  gal- 
axy safe  again.  PET  version  by  Brad 
Templeton.  TRS-80  program 
by  Joshua  Lavinsky 

Personal  Software,  Inc., 

also  produces  the  VisiCalc  " 

program  (the  software  that's 

revolutionizing  personal 

computing),  CCA  Data  Management  Sys- 
tem, the  Vitaf  acts  series  and  other  exciting 
software  for  the  Apple,  PET  and  TRS-80. 
Now  that  you've  read  about  the 
Personal  Software  programs,  go  see  a 
demonstration.  For  the  name  of  your 
nearest  Personal  Software  dealer,  call 
(408)  745-7841  or  write  to  Personal 
Software  Inc.,  1330  Bordeaux  Dr., 
Sunnyvale,  CA  94086. 


Checker  King 


STUATSjy  GAMES  SStlES 


While  they  were  thinking 
hardware  and  software, 
we  were  thinking 


16K  SUPER  RAM 

32K  SUPER  RAM 

16K  MEMORY  MASTER 

24K  MEMORY  MASTER 


S-100  SYSTEMS.  From  add-in  memory  boards 
to  add-on  hard  disk.  High  performance  S-100 
busboards.  Single,  dual  and  quad-density  disk 
systems  with  up  to  1 .2  megabytes  on  a  single 
floppy  disk  drive.  I/O  boards.  All,  with 
the  Morrow  Designs  systems  approach 
to  hardware  and  software. 

COST  EFFECTIVE  SYSTEMS. 

Morrow  Designs  Discus  M26  offers 
26  usable  megabytes  of  memory  for 
just  $4,995.  About  $192  per  mega 
byte.  And,  it's  a  complete  system 
including  a  Shugart  SA4008 
Winchester-type  sealed-media 
hard  disk,  power  supply,  cables, 
and  cabinet  with  fan.  The  single 
board  controller  supervises  all 
data  transfers,  communicating 


with  the  CPU  through  3  I/O  ports  (command, 
status,  data).  The  controller  can  generate  inter- 
rupts at  the  completion  of  each  command.  A 
512-byte  sector  buffer  is  on-board.  And  the 
system  is  available  for  S-100  main- 
frames. 

SYSTEMS  FOR  SYSTEMS.  Whether 
you're  building  systems  or  trying  to 
expand  your  present  system  at  reason- 
able costs,  Morrow  Designs  offers 
complete,  cost-effective  subsystems. 
Modular  systems  that  allow  you 
to  build  your  system  your  way 

SOFTWARE  FOR  SYSTEMS. 

Morrow  Designs  backs  each 
subsystem  with  high-quality, 
fully-tested  software.  INSTALL 
software  allows  you  to  attach 


systems. 


A                   K 

CF 

L 

LANGUAGES: 

C,  RATFOR.  FORTRAN, 

PASCAL.  BASIC 

M     . 

P 

"3  k 

Z80/8080 
CPU 

AUTO-INSTALL 
DEVICE 

WORD  PROCESSING 

DATA  BASE 

MANAGEMENT 

ACCOUNTING 

<M      J 

N                V 

DRIVERS 

H 


IEEE  STANDARD  S-100  BUS 


H 


MULTI  BOARD 


1K 

ROM 


1K 
RAM 


REAL 

TIME 

CLOCK 


DAISY  PORT 


PROGRAMMABLE 

INTERRUPT 

CONTROLLER 


DAISY  WHEEL 
PRINTER 


+  +  + 


3  SERIAL  PORTS 


RS232 


RS  232         RS  232 


FLOPPY 

DISK 

CONTROLLER 


RS232 


L    !      I 


14  INCH  26  MEGABYTE 
HARD  DISK 


any  Morrow  disk  system  to  any  CP/M 
system  operating  under  CP/M. 
Morrow  CPM/CDOS  software  allows 
you  to  attach  any  Morrow  disk  drive 
to  Cromemco  Systems.  In  fact,  if  soft- 
ware runs  under  CP/M,  it  will  run  on 
any  Morrow  Designs  hardware. 
COMPARE  PERFORMANCE. 
Hardware  performance.  Software 
performance.  System  performance.  Any 
Morrow  Designs  disk  drive,  hard  or  floppy, 
can  be  mixed  and  matched  through  Morrow 
Designs  standard  software.  And  all  necessary 
hardware,  software  and  firmware  is  included 
with  each  system. 

NOW,  COMPARE  PRICE.  Morrow  Designs 
products  offer  maximum  efficiency  at  minimum 
cost.  But  we  don't  cut  corners.  What  that  means 

Circle  26  on  Inquiry  card. 


to  you  is  reliable  system  efficiency  at 
cost  effective  prices. 

Better  systems  for  less.  See  Morrow 
Designs  full  line  of  memory  and  I/O, 
plus  floppy  disk/and  the  M26  hard 
disk  system  at  your  computer  sup- 
plier. Or,  send  in  the  coupon  for  our 
full  line  catalog.  Can't  wait:  Call  us  at 
(415)524-2101. 


5221  Central  Ave  Richmond.  CA  94804  ;>«■.,.«»& 

Gentlemen,  Please  send  me  your  complete  OEM  hardware  and 
software  specifications.  Plus  the  name  of  my  nearest  distributor. 

Name 

Company 

Address 

City 


.  State  . 


-Zip_ 


*      3 


J3 
C 

s 
a 


1 


II 

S;  *> 
\  •• 

12  v> 

n   n 

2    *" 

re  2 

II 

*  a. 

a.  J' 

a  3 


2  ? 

a  re 

IS 

3  Co 
re  • 

Ih 

If 

ll 

a  0 

a  | 
a.1" 

a-S. 

a  r 

...  3 
»-►  re 

3  i 

"I 

i  2. 

<*)'  *» 

So 
On 

a.  9 

fi 

a  a. 


re 
I 

I 

o 


r 

(n 

O 

3 

a 


V0D  VDD 


-OVDD   SUPPLY 


-  BATTERY  O- 


IBB 


INPUT 


7.2K 


3  K 
JW^-A-«-(PIN8) 


/77 


e  TRS-80  Model  III.  A 

Standard  in  Personal 

Computers! 


e  new  standard  is  now  here 
—  this  beautiful,  feature- 
packed,  one-piece  desktop 
computer  system  at  a  very, 
very  affordable  price.  Continu- 
ing the  TRS-80  tradition 
begun  with  our  famous  Model  I, 
the  amazing  Model  III  gives  you 
everything  you've  always  wanted 
in  a  personal  computer — including 
easy  expandability 

It  Talks  Your  Language!  Model  III  is 
available  with  either  Level  I  or 
powerful  new  Model  III  BASIC. 
Best  news  of  all  is  that  nearly  all 
Model  I  software  is  compatible 
with  Model  III,  so  you  already  have 
a  huge  library  of  applications  to 
choose  from.  Radio  Shack  already 
offers  over  80  quality  packages  — 
from  games  to  sophisticated 
business  programs  to  word 
processing. 

Big  Storage  Capacity!  Model  III 
BASIC  features  dual-speed  cas- 
sette loading  (1500  and  500  baud). 
You  can  expand  your  Model  III  to 


Shack  is 
Lowering  the  Cost  of 
High  Technology! 

$699 


As 

Low 
At 


Feature  Packed!  Every  Mc 
III  includes  a  parallel  printer 
interface  and  65-key 
keyboard.  Model  III  BASIC 
adds  "extras"  like  a  real 
time  clock,  scroll  protect, 
keyboard  controlled  screen 
print,  and  RS-232  firmware. 


support  up  to  four  (two  integral) 
double-density  disks  at  175K  each 
for  a  total  system  capacity  of  up  to 
670K  bytes. 

Powerful  Memory!  Up  to  48K  of 
internal  memory  is  easily  added, 
since  no  expansion  interface  is  re- 
quired. Model  III  is  completely 
self-contained.  Start  with  a  4K 
Level  I  system  or  move  up  to  our 
16K  Model  III  BASIC  right  away  for 
the  applications  you  need. 

High-Resolution  Display!  Every 
Model  III  has  a  sharp  display  of  16 
lines  of  64  characters.  Model  in 
BASIC  adds  lower  case  plus 
graphics  and  special  characters. 


And  It's  Very  Affordable!  The  4K 

Level  I  system  is  only  $699*  The 
16K  version  with  powerful  Model 
III  BASIC  is  just  $999*  So  why 
wait,  step  up  to  the  new  standard 
now.  Available  at  Radio  Shack 
stores,  dealers  and  Computer  Cen- 
ters everywhere. 

The  biggest  name  in  little  computers® 
Send  me  your  TRS-80  Catalog! 

Radio  Shack,  Dept.  81-A-40 
1300  One  Tandy  Center 
Fort  Worth,  Texas  76102 


City 


Zip 


'Retail  prices  may  vary  at  individual  stores  and  dealers.  Special  order  may  be  required  initially. 


Bit  1 

0 
0 

1 
1 


BitO 

0 

1 
0 

1 


Output  Digit  to  Computer 


T5S7  (LSD) 

TJS7 

"DS7  (MSD) 

n/a 


Table  1:  Correspondence  of  the  2-bit  digit-select  codes  with  the  EDB  output  data 
sent  to  the  computer. 


ici 

CD4042 


QoO 


Q] 

Q2 

Q3 


C^ 


o 


13 


n>- 


14 


Qo 

Q2 
<33 


►  6V 


«< 


10 


11 


1C3 
CD4050 


^ 


$>> 


pt 


*&> 


-L3>  BIT  3 


-L3>  BIT  2 


-O  8IT1 


4-BIT 
\  PARALLEL 
(  INPUT  PORT 

(BCD  OUTPUT) 


-Obito 


<3C 


+  6V 
5 f      IC4 


CD4070 


iJO1 


(DIGIT  SELECT) 


-ObITI  J  2-BIT 

PARALLEL 


<CD  BIT  0      OUTPUT  PORT 


Figure  5:  Schematic  diagram  of  an  inter- 
face that  allows  a  computer  to  directly 
read  the  three-digit  LED  display  of  the 
EDB,  using  four  integrated  circuits. 
Through  2  bits  of  a  parallel  output  port, 
the  computer  sends  a  digit-select  code  and 
then  reads  the  corresponding  BCD  value 
of  the  selected  digit  through  4  bits  of  a 
parallel  input  port. 


Number 

Type 

+  6  V 

GND 

IC1 

CD4042 

16 

8 

IC2 

CD4052 

16 

8 

IC3 

CD4050 

1 

8 

IC4 

CD4070 

14 

7 

JlOOXl 


:  loon 


COMPUTER 
OUTPUT   { 
PORT   16 


bO   L">" 

bl  £Z>- 

b2  O- 


0.1  /iF 


7h 


14 


STEPPER  MOTOR 


SAA1027 


Q4 
Q3 
Q2 

Qi 


x  r 


YELLOW 


GRAY 


YELLOW 


GRAY 


RED 


RED 


BLACK 


Figure  6:  Stepper  motor  and  controller  used  in  the  infrared  and  ultrasonic  scanner.  The 
motor  is  a  North  American  Philips  K82701-P2  type,  which  turns  7.5°  per  step.  It 
operates  on  12  VDC. 

The  SAA1027  integrated  circuit  is  available  from  Signetics  or  from  North  American 
Philips,  Cheshire,  Connecticut,  (203)  272-0301. 


Text  continued  from  page  42: 

The  EDB  contains  all  the  necessary 
electronic  circuitry  to  convert  the 
transmit/receive  time  interval  into  a 
figure  indicating  distance  (in  feet)  and 
present  it  on  a  three-digit  LED  (light- 
emitting  diode)  display.  Figure  3  is  a 
block  diagram  of  the  EDB,  while  fig- 
ure 4  shows  the  schematic  diagram. 

Connecting  the  EDB  to  the  com- 
puter requires  some  thought.  The 
output  of  the  EDB  is  a  three-digit 
display  with  a  numeric  output  range 
of  00.9  to  35.0  in  increments  of  0.1 
feet.  The  multiplexed  display  is  con- 
trolled by  a  three-digit  binary  counter 
with  strobed  digit-select  lines.  It  uses 
a  single  BCD  (binary-coded  decimal  )- 
to-7-segment  decoder/driver.  At  any 
instant,  only  one  digit  is  energized, 
but  because  of  the  persistence  of 
human  vision,  they  all  appear  to  be 
illuminated.  Unfortunately,  this 
multiplexed  display  output  is  not 
very  computer-compatible  and  re- 
quires additional  interface  circuitry. 


Decoding  the  EDB  Output 

Figure  5  is  the  schematic  diagram  of 
a  f our-integrated-circuit  interface  that 
decodes  the  counter  output  on  the 
EDB  and  latches  the  digits  while  the 
computer  reads  them.  Essentially  the 
circuit  consists  of  a  three-input 
demultiplexer  (IC2),  an  edge  detector 
(IC4),  a  4-bit  latch  (ICl),  and  an  out- 
put buffer  (IC3).  The  four-chip  circuit 
is  conveniently  mounted  on  a  piece  of 
perforated  circuit  board  and  attached 
to  the  rear  of  the  EDB,  as  illustrated 
in  photo  7. 

When  the  MSD  (most-significant 
digit)  of  the  LED  display  is  energized, 
the  DS3  line  is  low.  The  data  on  Q0 
thru  Q3  at  this  time  form  the  BCD 
value  of  that  number.  Similarly, 
when  DS2  goes  low,  the  data  lines 
will  hold  the  second  digit  value.  IC2 
is  a  4-to-l-line  demultiplexer  with  the 
three  digit  strobes  as  inputs.  A  2-bit 
TTL  (transistor-transistor  logic)- 
compatible  parallel  output  from  the 
computer  determines  which  of  these 
channels  is  routed  through  the 
multiplexer.  To  get  DSi  ,  the  LSD 
(least-significant  digit),  the  input  code 
to  the  EDB  interface  would  be  00.  A 
binary  code  of  10  would  set  channel 
3,  allowing  DS3  to  go  through.  A 
summary  of  the  codes  is  given  in  table 
1. 

The  inputs  to  IC2  are  offset  by  one 
channel  due  to  the  peculiar  timing  of 
the   EDB.    While   the     DS3     line   is 


48       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  lnc 


Circle  28  on  inquiry  card. 


The  MODEL  800  MST  is  certainly  pleasing  to  look  at,  but  its  true  beauty  lies  beneath  the  surface.  A  glimpse  at  its 
features  reveals  why  it  is  rapidly  becoming  the  most  sought  after  printer  in  the  world  .    .    . 


Four  standard  interfaces: 

RS-232  (15  baud  rates) 

Centronics  compatible  parallel 

IEEE-488 

20ma  current  loop 
Six  line  densities:  64,  72,  80,  96,  120,  132 
100  CPS  at  all  six  densities 
Unidirectional  or  bidirectional  printing 
Sixteen  horizontal  and  ten  vertical  tabs 

•  Elongated  characters  in  all  six  densities 

•  1920  character  buffer 

•  Uses  either  perforated  or  roll  paper 

•  Fully  adjustable  tractors  to  9!/2" 

•  Auto  self-test 


Up  to  10  character  fonts 

Standard  96  character  ASCII 

User  defined  character  font 

Provision  for  up  to  eight  additional  fonts 
Dot  resolution  graphics  in  six  densities 
Variable  line  spacing  control  from  0  to  64  dots  in 
half-dot  increments 

Auto  form-feed  for  any  form  length  at  any  line 
spacing 

Heavy-duty  all  aluminum  chassis 
1  lOvac  or  220vac,  50/60Hz. 
100  million  character  pririthead 
Measures  only  15"  wide,  3"  high,  and  1  1"  deep 
Weighs  only  15  lbs. 


but  maybe  its  most  attractive  feature  is  the  price $699.00 


bare.,  inc. 


W 


P.O.   BOX   3548   FULL..CAL.  88634  /    C714]  888-4344 


physically  tied  to  channel  0  and 
would  appear  to  be  addressed  with  a 
00  input  code,  the  edge-detector  tim- 
ing of  the  circuit  is  such  that  we  are 
not  latching  the  current  digit's  value, 
but  the  next  digit's  value,  when  we 
address  the  channel.  However  illog- 
ical it  may  seem,  the  codes  that  work 
are  stated  in  table  1. 

When  we  have  selected  which  digit 
we  want  to  read  by  setting  the  proper 
multiplexer-input  code,  that  digit 
value  will  be  latched  into  ICl  and 
available  as  a  BCD  value  to  the  com- 
puter. IC3  buffers  the  CMOS  (com- 
plementary metal-oxide  semiconduc- 
tor) voltage  levels  of  the  EDB  to  the 
TTL  level  required  by  most  comput- 
ers. To  read  a  three-digit  range,  we 
simply  set  the  three  multiplexer  codes 
in  succession.  To  obtain  the  distance 
indication,  just  add  the  three  values 
as  follows: 

Distance  =  (MSD)  X  10  +  (2nd 
digit)  X  1  +  (LSD)  X  0.1 

This  interface  design  is  essentially 
speed-independent  and  can  be  driven 
equally  well  by  an  assembly-language 
or  BASIC  program.  Listing  1  is  a 
BASIC  program  that  reads  and  dis- 
plays the  three-digit  range  determined 


RUN 

****** 

****** 

****** 

****** 

****** 

****** 

****** 

****** 

****** 

****** 

****** 

****** 

****** 

****** 

****** 

****** 

****** 

****** 

****** 

****** 

****** 

****** 

****** 

****** 

****** 


**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

** 

** 

** 

** 


STEP1 


** 

**** 

** 

** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

**** 

** 


****************** 


******** 
******** 

******** 
******** 
******** 
******** 


******** 
******** 
******** 


********** 
********** 

******** 
****** 
****** 
****** 


******** 

****** 

******** 


STEP  25 


Figure  7a:  Bar  graph  of  distance 
measurements  taken  by  the  scanning 
system  as  the  ultrasonic  transducer  was 
pivoted  in  twenty-five  steps  through  a 
180°  sweep  around  the  Circuit  Cellar 
(each  asterisk  represents  approximately 
one-half  foot) .  Note  correspondence  with 
floor  plan  in  figure  7b. 


by  the  ultrasonic  ranging  system. 

A  More  Sophisticated  Scanner 

The  original  article,  "I've  Got  You 
in  My  Scanner!,"  previously  men- 
tioned, has  been  reprinted  in  the  book 
Ciarcia's  Circuit  Cellar,  volume  1, 
available  from  BYTE  Books.  Photo  8 
is  a  close-up  of  the  updated  version  of 
the  scanner,  which  now  includes  the 
ultrasonic  ranging  detector.  The  basic 
scanner  consists  of  a  North  American 
Philips  stepper  motor  (12  V  type 
K82701-P2)  and  integrated-circuit 
controller  (SAA1027)  with  an  infra- 
red-sensitive photo  Darlington  tran- 
sistor (General  Electric  type  L14F2) 


fixed  at  the  focus  of  a  parabolic 
reflector  mounted  on  the  shaft.  I  used 
a  Radio  Shack  solar  cigarette  lighter, 
catalog  number  61-2797,  as  the  para- 
bolic reflector.  The  driver  circuit  for 
the  stepper  motor  is  outlined  in  figure 
6.  The  original  article  explained  the 
infrared  sensing  system  in  detail. 

The  new  scanner  has  the  ranging 
detector  mounted  on  the  stepper- 
motor  shaft,  above  the  parabolic 
reflector.  Both  point  in  the  same 
direction.  The  stepper  motor  is  driven 
through  the  SAA1027  with  3  bits  of  a 
parallel  output  port.  To  drive  the 
motor  clockwise,  bit  1  is  set  low,  bit  2 
Text  continued  on  page  56 


@  SUPPORT  COLUMN 
SCAN  STEP 


TABLE 


j  [lJJ 


SOFA 


<*y///i\\ 

<■//  li 

/  I 


jr~-STEP  1 

TELEVISION   RECORDER 


STEP  25 


-TERMINAL 


-BOOKCASE 


TELEVISION 


Figure  7b:  Floor  plan  of  Circuit  Cellar  showing  location  of  scanner  and  beam  paths  to 
room  objects  during  the  twenty-five  steps  in  the  scanning  sweep.  Bar  graph  of  figure  7a 
shows  relative  distance  to  the  nearest  obstruction  in  the  beam  path  at  each  step. 


50       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  29  on  inquiry  card. 


Klui 


ANP 


— — Sfe- 


rOW:  AN  ORIGINATE/ANSWER  103 
fcsisFOR  LESS  THAN  $200 


Switch-selectable  originate/answer 

FCC  certified  tor  direct-connect 

Fits  under  your  phone 

No  AC  required 

Only  $195  (quantity  one) 


UDS  technology  now  adds  a  Bell-compatible  originate/answer  1 03  to  the  family  of  line-powered 
modems.  No  AC  connection  or  power  supply  required;  operating  power  comes  directly  from  the  phone 
line.  The  unit  fits  underneath  your  desk  phone.  With  the  TALK/DATA  switch  in  the  TALK  position,  you 
have  an  ordinary  phone;  move  to  DATA  and  you're  in  contact  with  the  whole  datacomm  world  at  any 
speed  up  to  300  bps. 

For  details,  contact:  Universal  Data  Systems,  5000  Bradford  Drive,  Huntsville,  AL  35805,  Telephone 
205/837-8100,  TWX  810-726-2100 


'Confidence  in  Communications" 


Universal  Data  Systems 

DISTRICT  OFFICES:  Summit,  NJ,  201/522-0025  •  Blue  Bell,  PA,  215/643-2336  •  Atlanta,  404/952-3463  •  Chicago,  312/ 
441-7450  •  Dallas,  21 4/385-0426  •  Santa  Ana,  71 4/972-461 9  •  Sunnyvale,  408/738-0433  •  Boston,  61 7/875-8868. 


u 


IDCMA 


Created  by  Dayner/Hall,  Inc.,  Winter  Park,  Florida 


Circle  30  on  inquiry  card. 


SUPERBRAIN 


32K  or  64K  (Double  or  Quad  Density  units 
available).  Uses  two  Z-80  CPU's.  Commercial 
type  terminal  with  12"  monitor.  Dual  double 
density  minifloppies.  Over  350  kilobytes  of 
storage  (twice  that  with  quad  density  drives) 
Two  serial  RS232  ports,  I/O  ports  standard 
Expandable  with  optional  S-100  S-100  inter- 
face. Comes  with  CP/M™  2.2  operating  sys- 
tem. MiniMicroMart  includes  BASIC  inter- 
preter and  can  supply  a  wide  range  of  CP/M 
Development  and  Application  software. 

w/32K  Double  Density,  List  $2995  .  $2685 

w/64K  Double  Density,  List  $3345 $2883 

w/64K  Quad  Density,  List  $3995 $3595 

64K  Special  Quad  Version $3395 


INTERSYSTEMS 

formerly  ITHACA  AUDIO 


DPS-1,  List  $1795 

LIMITED  TIME  $1299* 

The  new  Series  II  CPU  Board  features  a  4  MHz 
Z-80A  CPU  and  a  full-feature  front  panel.  20- 
slot  actively  terminated  motherboard,  with  25 
amp  power  supply  (50/60  Hz  operation,  incl. 
68cfmfan). 

COMPLETE  SYSTEM  with  InterSystem  64K 
RAM,  I/O  Board  w/priority  interrupt  and 
double  density  disk  controller  board.  Full  1-year 
warranty,  List  $3595  aiaa^* 

only $2895* 

Above  less  disk  controller,  $3195 $2539* 

*  Limited  Time  offer  expires  Sept.  15,  1980. 

HEWLETT-PACKARD 

HP-85A 

Desk-Top 
Computer 

Call 

for 

Pnco! 


F.O.B.  shipping  point.  All  prices  subject  to  change  and  all 
offers  subject  to  withdrawal  without  notice.  Advertised  prices 
are  for  prepaid  orders.  Credit  card  and  C.O.D.  2%  higher. 
C.O.D.  may  require  deposit. 

-  WRITE  FOR  FREE  CATALOG  - 

MiniMicroMart 

1618  James  Street 
Syracuse,  NY  13203    (315)  422-4467 

52       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Listing  1:  A  BASIC  program  that  uses  the  interface  circuit  shown  in  figure  5  to  read  the 
three-digit  distance  value  from  the  EDB  and  display  the  distance  on  the  computer 
printer.  A  sample  execution  follows  the  BASIC-language  statements. 


100 
110 
120 
130 
140 
150 
160 
170 
180 
190 
200 
210 
220 
230 
240 
250 
260 
270 
280 
285 
290 
300 


RUN 


THIS  PROGRAM  ALLOWS  A  COMPUTER  TO  READ  AND  DISPLAY 
DISTANCE  AS  MEASURED  BY  THE  POLAROID  ULTRASONIC 


RANGING  SYSTEM  DEMONSTRATOR  BOARD.  RANGE  .9  TO  35  FT. 


'  ;S;"  FEET" 


REM 

REM 

REM 

REM 

REM 

GOSUB  250 

PRINT"DI STANCE  TO  TARGET  IS 

GOTO  150 

REM 

REM 

REM 

REM 

REM 

REM 

REM 


THIS  ROUTINE  SETS  AND  READS  THE  3  DIGITS  ON  THE 

RANGING  BOARD. 

IT  IS  A  THREE  STEP  PROCESS:  SET  THE  DIGIT;  READ  THE 

DIGIT  VALUE;  AND  MASK  OFF  EVERYTHING  EXCEPT  THE  4  BIT 

CHARACTER. 
FOR  T=0  TO  2 
OUT  16, T 
S(T)=INP(16) 
S(T)=S(T)  AND  15 
S=(S(2)*10)+(S(l)*l)+(S(0)*.l) 
NEXT  T 
RETURN 


DISTANCE 

TO 

TARGET 

IS 

3 

.3 

FEET 

DISTANCE 

TO 

TARGET 

IS 

3 

.4 

FEET 

DISTANCE 

TO 

TARGET 

IS 

3 

.5 

FEET 

DISTANCE 

TO 

TARGET 

IS 

3 

.4 

FEET 

DISTANCE 

TO 

TARGET 

IS 

3 

.3 

FEET 

DISTANCE 

TO 

TARGET 

IS 

3 

.4 

FEET 

DISTANCE 

TO 

TARGET 

IS 

3 

.3 

FEET 

DISTANCE 

TO 

TARGET 

IS 

3 

.4 

FEET 

DISTANCE 

TO 

TARGET 

IS 

3 

.4 

FEET 

DISTANCE 

TO 

TARGET 

IS 

3 

.5 

FEET 

DISTANCE 

TO 

TARGET 

IS 

3 

.3 

FEET 

Listing  2:  A  BASIC  program  that  causes  the  scanner  to  make  a  180°  scanning  sweep  in 
twenty-five  steps  and  prints  the  distance  measurements  in  the  form  of  a  bar  graph. 
Figure  7a  shows  the  output  from  the  execution  of  this  program  on  the  system  set  up  in 
the  Circuit  Cellar. 


100  REM  THIS  PROGRAM  MAKES  A  180  DEGREE  SCAN  AND  RECORDS  THE 

110  REM  DISTANCE  TO  SOLID  OBJECTS  EVERY  7.5  DEGREES. 

120  REM 

130  REM  STEPPER  MOTOR  CONTROLLER  ATTACHED  TO  PORT  18 

140  REM  ULTRA  SONIC  RANGING  UNIT  ATTACHED  TO  PORT  16 

150  REM 

16  0  REM 

170  DIM  Z (25) 

180  OUT  18,1  :OUT  18,255  :REM  PRESET  STEPPER  CONTROLLER 

190  REM 

200  REM  CLOCKWISE  SCAN 

210  REM  BIT  2  IS  SET  HIGH  AND  BIT  0  IS  TOGGLED 

220  FOR  D=0  TO  24 

230  OUT  18,5 

240  GOSUB  470 

250  OUT  18,4 

260  NEXT  D 

27  0  REM 

280  REM  COUNTERCLOCKWISE  SCAN 

290  REM  BITS  1  AND  2  ARE  HELD  HIGH  AND  BIT  ZERO  IS  TOGGLED 

300  FOR  D=0  TO  24 

310  OUT  18,7 

320  GOSUB  570 

330  OUT  18,6 

340  NEXT  D 

350  REM 


Listing  2  continued  on  page  56 


Circle  31  on  inquiry  card. 


STOP  PLAYING  GAMES 
AND  GET  DOWN  TO  DOSINESS 


Corvus  Transforms  the  Personal  Computer 
into  a  Powerful  Business  Tool. 

In  business,  professional  offices,  and  schools  through- 
out the  world,  thousands  of  Corvus  intelligent  peripherals 
bring  mass  storage,  increased  speed,  and  multi-user 
capability  to  a  variety  of  microcomputers.  Current  applica- 
tions include  accounts  receivable  and  payable,  medical 
records,  mailing  lists,  inventories,  word  processing,  insur- 
ance, mathematics  and  science,  and  other  large  and 
complex  files. 

Corvus  proven  Winchester  disk  technology  provides 
10  to  80  million  bytes  of  capacity,  fully  compatible  with 
your  current  operating  system.  This  is  up  to  500  times  the      ~« 
capacity  of  a  floppy  disk. 

The  Corvus  CONSTELLATION  links  up  to  64  com- 
puters in  a  state-of-the-art  multi-processor  network.  It 
provides  shared  mass  storage,  pipes  for  inter-computer 
communication,  and  system  spooling  for  sharing  of 
peripherals  such  as  printers.  Performance  far  exceeds 
that  of  larger  and  more  expensive  networks. 

Backup  data  protection  and  archival  storage  are  pro- 
vided by  the  Corvus  MIRROR  (Patent  Pending),  a  low- 
cost  backup  using  standard  video  cassette  recorders. 

Contact  your  local  Corvus  dealer  for  the  full  story 
about  these  innovative  new  products.        . 

<*£  *^k.  '       CORVUS  SYSTEMS 


'w 


■ 


•   2029  O  Toole  Avenue 
*     San  Jose.  California  95131 
(408)  946-7700  TWX  910-338-0226 


u&ai 


iffurfffintiii'mwfi 


■ 


V 


New  power  at 
your  fingertips. 

Konan  presents  Hard  Disk  Control,  Tope  Control,  and 
Serial  1/6  Boards  lor  S-lOO  computers.  Konan,  known 
throughout  the  industry,  lor  its  leading,  innovative;  . 
guaranteed  controllers  for  S-lOO  systems,  does  it  again. 
Now,  it  offers  you  more  of  the  expanded  capabilities  you 
need"  .    .  ■  ".».■      -  "•  •   \  -'. 

First,  there's  Konan's  complete  line  of  hard  disk,  mass  , 
storage  subsystems  and  controllers,  These  high  reliability 
products  include  the  SMC-lOO™  storage  module  (SMD  of 
CDC  9760  interface)  hard  disk  coritrpllerjor  the&lOO  Bus, 
DAT400  Winchester  type  hard  disk  tape  "backup  con- . 
troller.lhe  HARD  TAPFj^  systerruahd  the  hew  KNX-SOO1^ 
.hard  disk  corrtroper  which is  software  compatible with. 
Alpha  Micro.  AM-500** Alsd,  coming  soon'  Shugart  ' 
.  technology  mini  hard  disk  controller,  arid  9  track  reel  to 
reel  to^  controller.  ~,  '..-.   *."      '*..•'.'; 

Now,  Kohah  irittoducesCCTOPLUSW  and  OMNIPORT™-: 
two  new  serial  I/O  boards.. OCTOPLUS™,  the-8-port  board 
■  offers  a  realtime  clock  andfull  interrupt  control,  Andihe  16 
port  OMNIPORI^H  offers  you  .an  -efficient  economical 
board  where  morefthan  8  ports  are needed.  - 

With  these  and  other  quality  products,  Konan  shows 
again  that  when  it  comes  to  S-IOQ  systems,  it  is  definitely  in  . 
controL(AndaU  at  attractive  0£.M.  and  dealer  prices.) 

•For  complete  information  call  Konan's  direct;  tolMree  in- , 
foimcrtipnlin,e:8CX>-628-4$63.    •  .  ■ -,  ,» 

'Or,  write  to:  Konari  Corporation,  1448  North  27th  Avenue, 
. Phdenix,  AZ 85009.TWX/TELEX 9109511552       ' .,-,, .*  '• 


"Alpha  Micro  AM-500  is  a  trademark  of  Alpha  Micro  Systems. , 

IN.  CONTROL,  SMC-IOO.'HARD  TAPE,  KNX-50O",  OCTOPLUS,  and 
OMMPORT  are  trademarks  of  Konan  Corporation. 


•  A 


Glfcl©32-©ft4Bq«*iy 


f    i 


■ 


'■'':¥ 


Circle  33  on  inquiry  card. 


MTI  stocks  'em  all 
for  faster  delivery. 


No  hidden  charges.  Prices  include  delivery. 
VISA  and  MasterCard  orders  accepted. 

VIDEO  TERMINALS 

VT100  DECscope $    1750 

VT132  DECscope 2295 

ADM-3A  (dumb  terminall  • 

ADM-3A+  (dumb  terminal)  » 

ADM-31  (2  page  buffer) « 

ADM-42  (8  page  buffer  avail.) » 

1410  (Hazeltine  dumb  terminal)  825 

1420  (dumb  terminal)  895 

1421  (Consul  580  &  ADM-3A  comp.)....     895 

1500  (dumb  terminal)  1045 

1510  (buffered) 1145 

1520  (buffered  printer  port)  1395 

1552  (VT-52  compatible)  1350 

300  BAUD  TELEPRINTERS 

LA34-DA  DECwriter  IV  1045 

LA34-AA  DECwriter  IV  1295 

Teletype  4310 1085 

Teletype  4320 1225 

Diablo  630  RO 2295 

Diablo  1640  RO 3085 

Diablo  1640  KSR  3285 

Diablo  1650  RO 3185 

Diablo  1650  KSR  3385 

Tl  743  (portable) 1190 

Tl  745  (portable/built -in  coupler)  1585 

Tl  763  (portable/bubble  memory)  2690 

Tl  765  (port/bubble  mem/b-i  coupler)  .   2895 

600  BAUD  TELEPRINTERS 

Tl  825  RO  impact 1565 

Tl  825  KSR  impact 1645 

Tl  825  RO  Pkg 1750 

Tl  825  KSR  Pkg 1895 

1200  BAUD  TELEPRINTERS 
LA120-AA  DECwriter  III  (forms  pkg.)  .  2245 

LA180  DECprinter  I  2195 

Tl  783  (portable) 1745 

Tl  785  (port/built-in  coupler)  2395 

Tl  787  (port/internal  modem)  2845 

Tl  810  RO  impact 1800 

Tl  810  RO  Pkg 2047 

Tl  820  KSR  impact 2057 

Tl  820  KSR  Pkg 2275 

Tl  820  RO 1895 

Tl  820  RO  Pkg 2047 

2400  BAUD 

Dataproducts  M200  (2400  baud)  2595 

DATAPRODUCTS  LINE  PRINTERS 

B300  (300LPM  band)  5535 

B600  (600LPM  band) 6861 

2230  (300LPM  drum) 7723 

2260  (600LPM  drum)  9614 

2290  (900LPM  drum)  12655 

ACOUSTIC  COUPLERS 

A/J  A242-A  (300  baud  orig.)  242 

A/J  247  (300  baud  orig.)  315 

A/J  AD342  (300  baud  orig./ans.)  395 

A/J  1234  (Vadic  compatible) 895 

A/J  1245  (300/1200  Bell  comp.)  695 

MODEMS 

GDC  103A3  (300  baud  Bell) 395 

GDC  202S/T  (1200  baud  Bell)  565 

GDC  212-A  (300/1200  baud  Bell)  850 

A/J  1256  (Vadic  compatible) 825 

CASSETTE  STORAGE  SYSTEMS 

Techtran  816  (store/forward) .1050 

Techtran  817  (store/for/speed  up)  1295 

Techtran  818  (editing) 1795 

Techtran  822  (dual) 2295 

MFE  5000  (editing) 1495 

FLOPPY  DISK  SYSTEMS 

Techtran  950  (store/forward) 1395 

Techtran  951  (editing) 1995 

*  Please  call  for  quote. 


mti 


Applications  Specialists  &  Distributors 
Great  Neck.  New  York/Cleveland.  Ohio. 


N.Y.:  516/482-3500  &  212/895-7177 
800/645-8016  Ohio:  216/464  6688 


56        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Listing  2  continued: 


360 

REM 

370 

REM  PLOT  RANGES  AS  BAR  GRAPH 

380 

FOR  D=0  TO  24 

390 

FOR  W=l  TO  INT(Z (D) ) 

400 

PRINT"**"; 

410 

NEXT  W 

420 

PRINT"  " 

430 

NEXT  D 

440 

GOTO  220 

450 

REM 

460 

REM 

470 

REM  STEP  DELAY  AND  RANGE  SAMPLE  ROUTINE 

480 

FOR  T=0  TO  2 

490 

OUT  16, T 

500 

S(T)=INP(16)  :S(T)=  S(T)  AND  15 

510 

NEXT  T 

520 

Z(D)=(S(2)*10)+(S(l)*l)+(S(0)*.l) 

530 

FOR  Q=0  TO  10  :NEXT  0 

540 

RETURN 

550 

REM 

560 

REM 

570 

FOR  Q1=0  TO  100  :NEXT  01 

580 

RETURN 

Listing  3:  A  short  BASIC  program  that  demonstrates  one  method  for  using  the 
ultrasonic  scanning  device  in  a  security  system. 


100 
110 
120 
130 
140 
150 
160 
170 
180 
190 
200 
210 
220 
230 
240 
250 
260 
270 
280 
290 
300 
310 
320 
330 
340 
350 


DEMONSTRATES  HOW  THE 
USED  AS  AN  INTRUSION 


ULTRASONIC 
DETECTOR. 


TAKE  FIRST  DISTANCE  READING 


REM  THIS  PROGRAM 

REM  BOARD  CAN  BE 

REM 

REM 

A=l  :GOSUB  220  :REM 

GOSUB  330 

A=2  :GOSUB  220  :REM   TAKE  SECOND  DISTANCE  READING 

IF  ABS(X(1) )-ABS(X(2) ) >=.3  THEN  GOTO  280 

IF  ABS(X(2) )-ABS(X(l))>=.3  THEN  GOTO  280 

GOTO  140  :REM  CONTINUE  SCAN 

REM 

REM 

FOR  T=0  TO  2 

OUT  16, T 

S(T)=INP(16)  :S(T)=S(T)  AND  15 

NEXT  T 

X(A)=(S(2)*10)+(S(l)*l)+(S(0)*.l) 

RETURN 

PRINT"  I  GOT  YOU  IN  MY  SCANNER  AT  ";X(2); 

REM  AN  ALARM  ROUTINE  WOULD  BE  PLACED  HERE 

GOTO  140 

REM 

REM 

REM  SAMPLE  RATE  DELAY  TIMER 

FOR  Y=0  TO  200  :NEXT  Y 

RETURN 


RANGING 


FEET. 


RUN 

I  GOT  YOU  IN  MY  SCANNER  AT  11.4  FEET. 


Text  continued  from  page  50: 
is  held  high,  and  bit  0  is  toggled  to 
produce  each  step.  To  drive  the 
motor  counterclockwise,  bits  1  and  2 
are  held  high,  and  bit  0  is  toggled  for 
each  step.  The  new  scanner  can  read 
the  distance  at  each  step. 

Listing  2  is  a  program  that  causes 
the  scanner  to  make  a  180°  scan  and 
prints  out  the  distance  measurements 


in  the  form  of  a  bar  graph,  demon- 
strated here  in  figure  7a. 

To  help  you  understand  the  mode 
of  operation  and  value  of  the  ranging 
device,  I  have  also  sketched  the  area 
of  the  Circuit  Cellar  where  the  mea- 
surements were  taken.  (See  figure 
7b.) 

The  scanner  (the  red  object  in  fig- 
ure 7b)  was  placed  on  a  tripod  at  a 


The  picture  perfect  peripheral 


Videoprint  3000  is  the  con- 
venient economical  means  of 
obtaining  distortion-free 
hardcopy  from  your  Apple 
computer  graphics  display  in 
full,  brilliant  color.  The  entire 
system  is  self  contained  in  the 
convenient  desk-top  unit 
shown  above. 

Videoprints  eliminate  such 
off-the-screen  photography 
problems  as  barrel  distortion, 
color  desaturation'  and  loss  of 
color  fidelity.  Videoprints  also 
minimize  the  effects  of  raster 
lines  and  video  noise. 

Videoprints  are  instantly 
produced  with  Polaroid® 
SX-70orPolacolor4"x5" 
films,  as  well  as  with  conven- 
tional color  negative  or  35mm 
slide  transparency  films, 
offering  you  a  range  of  handy 
sizes.  The  pictures  are  made 
at  the  push  of  a  button. 

If  you've  ever  wanted  to 
distribute  copies  of  computer 


graphics  or  file  them  in  your 
permanent  records,  or  send 
them  through  the  mail  or 
project  them  as  slides,  you 
need  Videoprint. 

Hook  up  to  one  single 
cable  and  you're  ready  to 
capture  any  image  on  the 
Apple  monitor  screen.  Other 
personal  computers  with  color 
graphics  capability  work  with 
the  Videoprint  3000,  too. 

In  fact,  if  you  use  computer 
graphics  in  any  form,  you 
really  need  Videoprint  3000. 
Find  out  all  about  this  exciting 
new  tool.  Wfate  or  call  us  today 
for  your  local  dealers'  location. 


Circle  34  on  inquiry  card. 


The  Videoprint  People. 

Image  Resource  Corporation 

2260  Townsgate  Road,  Westlake  Village,  CA  91361 

(805)  496-3317 


Videoprints  shown  were 
produced  by  an  Apple  II  with 
graphics  tablet,  or  by  live 
images  on  3A  "videotape. 

Polaroid!'  Polacolor"  and  "SX-70"  are  registered 
trademarks  of  the  Polaroid  Corporation. 


height  of  5  feet  (1.5  meters),  about  2 
feet  (0.6  meters)  in  front  of  my  desk 
area.  The  parabolic  reflector  was 
pointed  90°  to  the  left  of  center  so 
that  a  180°  scan  resulted  in  it  ending 
up  pointing  90°  right  of  center.  At 
each  of  the  twenty-five  steps  it  took 
to  reach  this  point,  it  measured  the 
distance  to  the  nearest  obstruction  to 
its  line  of  detection.  For  comparison, 
the  blue  dotted  lines  in  figure  7b  show 
where  each  step  should  have  been  and 
what  should  have  been  in  the  way  of 
the  sonar  "beam." 

The  program  of  listing  2  printed  the 
graph  bar  corresponding  to  each  step, 


starting  with  step  1.  At  the  position 
reached  after  step  1,  the  system 
recorded  a  distance  of  about  5  feet 
(1.5  meters)  to  the  VTR  (videotape 
recorder)  on  the  counter  top.  The 
same  result  was  obtained  for  the  next 
two  steps.  At  the  position  reached 
after  step  4  (about  30°  around),  the 
scanner  was  pointing  between  the 
stereo  system  and  the  TRS-80  com- 
puter on  the  desk  to  the  right.  This 
was  indicated  by  a  reading  of  about 
15  feet  (4.6  meters),  measuring  the 
distance  to  the  bookcase  on  the  far 
wall. 
The  next  couple  of  steps  had  the 


Microhouse.  Microprice. 


We  will  attempt  to  meet  or  beat  any  adver- 
tised price  on  hardware  or  software! 
INDUSTRIAL  MICRO  SYSTEMS,  the  industrial- 
strength  microcomputers  priced  like  the  light- 
weights. All  IMS  systems  feature  a  Z80  4 
mHz  CPU,  S-100  bus  with  10  (series  5000) 
or  12  (series  8000)  slot  motherboard,  DMA 
(IBM-compatible)  double-density  floppy  disk 
controller,  32K  high  speed  (250  nS)  static 
RAM,  rugged  power  supply,  two  RS232  serial 
ports  and  one  parallel  port  (all  expandable). 
Each  IMS  system  comes  in  your  choice  of  an 
attractive  desk-top  or  rockmount  enclosure. 
CP/M  is  included. 


THE  GOOD  SILVER 
WORDSTAR  2.1  The 

premier  word-processing 
software  by  MicroPro 
WORDSTAR  2.1  wrtti 


SERIES  5000  wr*  5  1/4" 
With  two  single-sided,  double-density 
drives  $2531.20 

With  two  double-sided,  double-density 
drives  2908.7S 

SERIES  8000  with  8"  drives 
With  one  single-sided,  double-density 
drive  $3359.00 

With  two  single-sided,  double-density 
drives  4029.00 

With  one  double-sided,  double-density 
drive  3659.00 

With  two  double-sided,  double-density 
drives  4549.00 

HIGH  SPEED  IMS  S-100  MEMORY  BOARDS 
1 6K  250  nS  static  RAM  290.00 

32K  250  nS  static  RAM  585.00 

64K  Dynamic  RAM  937.50 

CALL  FOR  MORE  INFORMATION  ON  THE  NEW 
IMS/SHUGART  8"  WINCHESTER  SYSTEM 


DATASTAR  data  entry, 
retrieval,  and  update 
system  from  MicroPro 
SUPERSORT  sort/ 
merge/extract  soft- 
ware gives  your  CP/M 
micro  the  power  of  a 
key-to-disk  system 
BASK  80  INTERPRETER 
by  Microsoft,  ANSI 
compatible,  disk- 
extended 
BASK  COMPILER 

WHITESMITHS  C  con- 
forms to  full  UNIX 
version  7  C.  One  of  the 
best  C  compilers  for 
micros  on  the  market 

TCS/Aflonto  Accounting 
System: 

General 

Ledger 

Accounts 

Receivable 

Accounts 

Payable 

Payroll 


Ust  Microhouse 
495.00      349.98 
645.00      489.98 

350.00      279.98 
250.00      199.98 


350.00     287.50 
395  00      330.00 


620.00      600.00 


compare  at  530.00     175.00 
compare  at  530.00     175.00 


FROM  THE  PRINT  SHOP.. 


List 
S795.00 


CENTRONICS  PRINTERS 

730-1  100cps80col. 

730-3  same  with 

RS232  interface 

737-1  Letter-quality 

dot-matrix 

704-9  180  cps,  132 

col.,  RS232  interface 

700-9  60  cps,  132  col 

TEXAS  INSTRUMENTS  PRINTERS 

810  RO,  150  cps,  256 


845.00 


995.00 


2180.00 
1375.00 


FIFO  buffer 

820  RO,  1 50  cps, 

1280  FIFO,  full  ASCII 

NECSPINWRTTERS 

5510  SERIAL  or  5530 
PARALLEL 


1895.00 


1995.00 


Microhouse 
$639.00 

718.00 

849.00 

1895.00 
1149.00 

1580.00 
1679.00 


compare  at  530.00  175.00 

compare  at  530.00  175.00 

All  four  pockoges  595.00 

Sample  printouts  (oil  4  pkgs 

included)  10.00 

Manuals  (one  pkg  per  manual)  Each  35.00 


CALL  OR  WRITE  FOR  FREE  CATALOG 
VISA' 


'MosttwOord 


3055.00    2459.00 


58        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


MASTER  CARD  OR  VISA  WELCOME 

PRICES  AND  SPECIFICATIONS  SUBJECT  TO 
CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE 

Microhouse 


511  North  New  Street  Bethlehem.  PA  18018  (215)868 -8219 

Circle  35  on  inquiry  card. 


TRS-80  directly  in  the  path  of  the 
scanner  beam,  and  then  the  path  of 
the  beam  was  open  to  the  far  wall 
again  for  a  couple  of  steps.  The  rest  of 
the  scan  was  similarly  significant  in 
that  the  range  detector  accurately 
described  the  perimeter  from  its  view- 
point. Most  important,  however,  was 
the  demonstration  of  the  sensitivity 
of  the  ranging  device.  At  steps  9  and 
16,  the  only  object  in  the  path  be- 
tween the  scanner  and  the  wall  was  a 
4-inch  (10  cm)  ceiling-support  column 
about  7  feet  (2.1  meters)  away.  In 
both  cases  the  obstruction  was  ac- 
curately identified. 

We  now  have  a  device  that  can 
rotate  to  a  particular  position  and  ac- 
curately measure  the  distance  to  any 
object  it  "sees."  A  practical  use  of  the 
range  detector  is  as  a  security  device. 
When  the  wall  is  known  to  be  16  feet 
(4.8  meters)  away  from  the  scanner,  a 
sudden  reading  of  9  feet  (2.7  meters) 
indicates  that  someone  or  something 
just  moved  in  front  of  the  range 
detector.  The  program  of  listing  3 
allows  the  range  detector  to  be  used 
as  a  motion  detector. 

In  Conclusion 

I  have  demonstrated  only  two  uses 
for  the  Polaroid  Ultrasonic  Ranging 
System  Demonstrator  Kit.  The  ma- 
jority of  applications  I've  heard  about 
thus  far  have  been  independent  pro- 
jects that  utilize  the  ranging  system 
without  the  additional  capabilities  of 
a  computer.  They  include  a  walking 
cane  (with  audio  feedback)  for  the 
visually  handicapped,  a  0  to  35  foot 
(0  to  11  meter)  altimeter  for  the 
Gossamer  Albatross  aircraft  (for  its 
English  Channel  crossing),  and  as  an 
electronic  "dip  stick"  for  measuring 
liquid  levels  in  storage  tanks. 

I  hope  that  once  you  realize  how 
easy  it  is  to  attach  this  automatic 
ranging  system  to  a  computer,  you'll 
have  as  much  fun  experimenting  with 
it  as  I  have.  Unfortunately,  a  new 
problem  has  arisen.  Until  now,  one  of 
the  major  reasons  I  haven't  attempted 
to  build  a  robot  was  the  amount  of 
expense  and  technical  effort  required 
to  make  it  "see."  Now  I'll  have  to  find 
a  new  excuse.! 


Next  Month: 

Automated  testing  of  electronic 
products  using  programs  written  in 
a  high-level  computer  language. 


■■■^?U'  ■ 


When  you  pick  a  Daisy. 
Pick  Vista's  V300  Printer 


Vi/ta 


I 


Computer  Company 


MHMHMHV1 


$1 895 


There  are  Daisies!. . .  And,  There  are  Daisies!. . .  But  Vista  has  a  Peach! 

The  Vista  V300  is  exactly  that,  a  "peach"  of  a  daisy  wheel  printer  both  from  the  standpoint  of  price 
and  performance. 

Think  of  it,  a  printer  at  nearly  half  the  price  (when  compared  to  models  even  remotely  competitive  in 
quality)  combined  with  the  ultimate  in  reliability,  print  quality,  and  flexibility. 

Typical  Comments:  "Superb  print  quality!",  "Highly  reliable.",  "Definitely  letter  quality.  .  .  I  can't 
believe  the  price  tag.",  "Best  use  I've  seen  yet  of  LSI  Technology." 

But  judge  for  yourself  —  look  at  the  V300  features  and  keep  in  mind  this  is  a  letter  quality  printer  at 
dot  matrix  prices. 

•  Tractor  option  available 

•  Print  Speed  —  25  CPS  (Optional  45  CPS  for  $2,195) 

•  Print  Wheel  —  Industry  standard  96-character  Daisy  Wheel 
(including  the  extended-life  dual  plastic  wheels) 

•  Service  —  Prompt  maintenance/service  agreements  avail- 
able nationwide 

•  Interface  —  Industry  standard  parallel  (RS232-C  optional) 

•  Printable  Columns  —  136 

•  Warranty  —  90  days  parts  and  labor,  one  year  parts  only 

•  Proportional,  bi-directional  printing  •  Programmable  VFU 

•  Extensive  self-test  functions  •  Hardware  and  software 
compatible 

Vista  does  it  again!  Quality,  Price  and  Perfor- 
mance with  a  peach  of  a  daisy  wheel  printer. 


IMMEDIATE  DELIVERY 

For  Further  Information 
Call  Toll  Free  (800)  854-8017 


AND,  Vista  Has  a  Complete  V100  Word  Pro- 
cessing System  for  Only  $4995! 

The  Vista  V100  is  a  complete  word  process- 
ing system  that  includes: 


Exidy  Sorcerer 

Computer.  48K 

V200E20  Disc  Drive 

System,  Double 

Density 

Sanyo  Data  Display 

Monitor 


Vista  V300  Printer 

Full  Character  Daisy 

Wheel 

Wordstar.  CPM  1 .4 

(Includes  E  Basic) 

Can  also  be  used  for 

Data  Processing 


The  Vista  Computer  Company  1401  Borchard  Street  •  Santa  Ana.  California  92705  •  714/953-0523 


Circle  36  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


59 


B  Dyscm 


Sis'::" 

. 

,,,  ,.;, 

P»*™^"        j 

~~                                     j 

9jro 

Over  the  past  seven  Now  we're  making 
years  we've  earned  a  name  it  easier  for  you  to  buy  the 
for  ourselves  by  making  the  best.  Just  dial  Dysan  direct 
best  magnetic  media  in  the  TOLL  FREE  at  800/538-8150 
business.  Precision  magnetic  or  408/988-3472  (in  Calf- 
media  —  Diskettes,  Mini  forma]  or  contact  your  local 
Diskettes,  Diagnostic  Disk-  Dysan  office  listed  below. 
ettes,  Rigid  Discs,  Disc 

Packs,  and  Disc  Cartridges  „.    f  Pre™n  magnetic 

\  —all  rprnfiPri  m  hP  inrw,  me^ia  from  Dysan.  Our 


0  Dysan 

^CORPORATION 

5440  Patrick  Henry  Drive 


Santa  Clara,  CA  95050 
408/988-3472 


-all  certified  to  be  100% 
error  free  both  on-track 
and  between  the  tracks. 


media  says  it  all. 


*y$an 


'©;, 


Dysan  Corporation 


Santa  Clara,  CA  95050 
408/988-3472 

19600  Fairchild 
Suite  150 
Irvine,  CA  92713 
714/851-9462 

13201  Bell  Red  Road 
Suite  205 

Bellevue,  WA  98004 
206/455-4725 


Technical  Fcnum 


Kinetic  String 
Art  for  the  Apple 

Louis  Cesa,  305  Doris  Ave,  Vestal  NY  13850 

The  accompanying  photographs  were  produced  using 
high-resolution  graphics  on  the  Apple  II  computer.  As  in- 
teresting as  the  pictures  are,  they  do  not  do  justice  to  the 
real-time  art  that  takes  place  on  the  screen.  The  photo- 
graphs show  only  time  slices  at  different  stages  in  the 
development  of  the  kinetic  string  art.  On  the  screen  one 
can  see  shapes  forming  and  gradually  being  replaced  by 
other  shapes  in  a  continuous  display  of  color  and  motion. 


Algorithm  Description  for 
Kinetic  String  Art  Program 

1.  Initialize  Variables: 

Xl=X2  =  Yl=Y2  =  CNTl  =  CNT2=0; 
DIM  C(150),  TX1(150),  TX2(150),  TY1(150), 

TY2(150); 
AT  =  1 

2.  Erase  the  line  from  TXl(AT),  TYl(AT)  to  TX2 
(AT),  TY2(AT)  of  color  C(AT). 

3.  If  CNTl  =0  then  choose  a  new  random  color  and  a 
new  random  CNTl. 

COLOR =1  +  RND(3) 
CNTl  =  5x(l+RND(10)) 

4.  If  CNT2  =  0  then  choose  new  step  sizes  for 
DX1,  DY1,  DX2  and  DY2  and  a  new  random  CNT2: 
DXl  =  RND(9)-4 

DYl=RND(9)-4 
DX2=RND(9)-4 
DY2  =  RND(9)-4 
CNT2=5X(1+RND(10)) 

5.  Compute  new  XI,  Yl,  X2,  Y2  for  next  line  and  test 
for  screen  boundaries.  For  example, 

470PX1=X1  +  DX1 

480  IF  PX1>  =0  AND  PXK  =  MX  THEN  500 

490  PX1=X1:  DX1=  -DXl 

500X1=PX1 

6.  Draw  the  new  line  from  XI,  Yl  to  X2,  Y2. 

7.  Store  the  coordinates  and  color  of  the  new  line  in: 

C(AT),  TXl(AT),  TX2(AT),  TYl(AT),  TY2(AT) 

8.  Step  AT  to  next  position  in  table. 
AT=AT+1 

IF  AT  >  150  THEN  AT  =  1 

9.  Go  to  step  2. 


The  algorithm  used  is  quite  simple.  (See  textbox.  Con- 
tractual agreements  preclude  publishing  a  listing  of  the 
program.)  The  pictures  are  drawn  by  a  line  segment 
making  a  random  walk  on  the  screen.  An  initial  pair  of 
endpoints  is  chosen  at  random;  also  chosen  at  random 
are  color,  number  of  lines  to  be  drawn  with  that  color, 
step  size  for  each  endpoint  (in  the  x  and  y  directions),  and 
number  of  times  that  the  step  sizes  are  to  be  used.  Suc- 
cessive lines  are  drawn  by  advancing  the  endpoints  of  the 
line  by  the  chosen  step  size  in  the  x  and  y  directions. 


62       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Whenever  the  number  of  times  that  an  action  was  to  be 
executed  (such  as  number  of  lines  to  be  drawn  in  a  given 
color)  is  exhausted,  new  random  values  for  that  quantity 
and  for  the  number  of  times  that  the  quantity  should  be 
used,  are  chosen.  If  a  point  attempts  to  walk  off  the 
screen,  it  is  reflected  back. 

The  designs  in  the  accompanying  photographs  are 
formed  by  150  lines.  The  program  was  coded  so  that 
when  the  151st  line  is  added,  the  first  line  is  deleted,  and 
so  on.  This  is  done  by  a  routine  that  keeps  track  of  each 


line  segment  currently  on  the  screen.  When  the  table  con- 
tains 150  lines,  this  routine  erases  the  oldest  line  segment 
before  adding  a  new  one.  (This  effect  can  be  noted  in 
photos  1  and  2.)  Interesting  effects  can  be  obtained  by 
using  different  algorithms  to  choose  the  new  line  to  be 
added  at  each  iteration.  For  example,  an  interesting  effect 
is  obtained  with  just  10  lines  on  the  screen  and  choosing 
random  endpoints  for  each  new  line  (essentially  a  visual 
image  of  white  noise). ■ 


November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc       63 


Micrograph 

Part  1:  Developing  an 
Instruction  Set  for  a  Raster-Scan  Display 


E  Grady  Booch 

4314  Driftwood  Dr 

Colorado  Springs  CO  80907 


Simply  stated,  computer  graphics 
is  the  technique  of  visual  communica- 
tion from  computer  to  man.  (See 
reference  14.)  Interactive  computer 
graphics  is  an  important  subset  of  this 
broad  field  and  relates  to  computer- 
generated  displays  that  can  interact 
with  a  user  in  real  or  near-real  time. 
Interactive  graphics  started  with  at- 
tempts to  use  the  CRT  (cathode-ray 
tube)  as  a  computer  output  device. 
(See  reference  12).  The  Whirlwind  I  in 
1950  and  Sketchpad  in  1963  are  ex- 
amples of  early  attempts  at  interac- 
tive computer-graphics  systems. 
Since  that  time,  two  distinct  classes  of 
CRT-based  devices  have  been 
developed  for  use  in  interactive 
graphics:  calligraphic  (or  vector) 
devices  and  raster-scan  (as  in  a  televi- 
sion receiver)  devices. 

The  area  of  vector  graphics  "has 
for  several  years  been  sufficiently 
mature  to  justify  efforts  at  standardi- 
zation within  it."  (See  reference  8.)  A 
large  body  of  information  is  available 
on  the  design  of  such  systems.  (See 
reference  13.)  However,  the  same  is 


not  necessarily  true  of  raster-scan 
devices.  Until  recently,  raster-scan 
technology  has  not  been  economical- 
ly feasible.  Decreasing  hardware 
costs,  especially  for  memory,  have 
facilitated  the  trend  toward  raster- 
scan  displays.  (See  reference  3.)  The 
emergence  of  raster-scan  displays  has 
a  side  benefit,  namely  that  "raster- 
scan  technology  is  the  only 
economical  way  to  achieve  color  in 
full-sized  displays."  (See  reference  4.) 
For  the  microcomputer  user,  this 
means  that  he  can  add  moderate- 
resolution  color  graphics  to  a  system 
at  an  affordable  price,  using  raster- 
scan  technology.  The  benefits  of  col- 
or graphics  for  the  personal  computer 
are  obvious:  not  only  are  color 
displays  dazzling  and  eye-catching, 
but  more  important,  they  add  a 
new  dimension  for  communicating 
with  a  computer.  Microcomputers 
with  color-graphics  capabilities  have 
been  available  for  some  time,  such  as 
the  Apple  II  and  the  Compucolor. 
Within  the  past  year,  however, 
Motorola     and    AMI     (American 


Microsystems  Incorprated)  have 
released  a  LSI  (large-scale  integration) 
chip,  called  a  video-display 
generator,  which  performs  all  the 
video  functions  necessary  to  produce 
a  color-graphics  and  alphanumerics 
display  on  a  standard,  unmodified 
color  television.  As  a  result,  low-cost 
color-graphics  displays  are  now 
possible  for  the  personal  computer 
user. 

This  three-part  article  presents  the 
theory,  design,  and  construction  of  a 
low-cost,  color-graphics  display  pro- 
cessor called  Micrograph,  which  is 
based  on  the  Motorola  MC6847 
video-display  generator.  (See  photo 
1.)  Essential  characteristics  of 
Micrograph  are  described  in  the  text 
box.  In  the  remainder  of  this  article,  I 
will  review  the  characteristics  of  in- 
teractive computer-graphics  systems, 
followed  by  an  overview  of  the 
Micrograph  design.  Subsequent  ar- 
ticles will  concern  the  hardware  con- 
struction details  for  Micrograph  and 
the  software  necessary  to  control  the 
system. 


About  the  Author 

£  Grady  Booch  is  currently  a  computer 
systems  design  engineer  with  the  Air 
Force  Space  and  Missile  Test  Center.  He  is 
involved  with  the  development  of  a  high- 
resolution  color-graphics  system  for 
tracking  missile  launches.  Grady  received 
his  bachelor  of  science  and  master  of 
science  degrees  in  computer  science  from 
the  United  States  Air  Force  Academy  and 
the  University  of  California,  Santa  Bar- 
bara, respectively. 


Micrograph  Features: 

•  64  by  64,  128  by  128,  and  256  by 
192  pixel  resolutions  are  available. 

•  Up  to  eight  different  colors  are 
displayed  at  one  time. 

•  It  contains  a  single-board  pro- 
cessor, based  on  Zilog  Z80  pro- 
cessor and  Motorola  MC6847 
Video  Display  Generator. 

•  Construction  cost:  about  $275  . 


•  High-level  graphics  primitives 
support. 

•  Both  graphics  and  alphanumer- 
ics are  supported. 

•  It  interfaces  to  a  host  microcom- 
puter via  three  8-bit  input/output 
ports  (status,  input,  and  output) 
and  by  radio- frequency  or  video 
entry  to  a  standard,  unmodified 
color  television. 


64       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  37  on  Inquiry  card. 


WHEN  OPPORTUNITY  KNOCKS ... 


, ,>  -,'  • 


Open  the  door,  and  experience  the  dream.  Your  own  busi- 
ness, the  one  you've  always  yearned  for.  No  more  limits  on 
your  creativity  or  earning  potential.  No  more  working  for 
someone  else. 

If  you're  a  successful  computer  professional  and  have 
access  to  some  capital,  chances  are  you  could  own  a 
MicroAge  Computer  Store.  MicroAge  Computer  Stores  are 
built  around  a  whole  new  concept  of  what  a  computer  store 
should  be.  Designed  to  provide  solutions,  not  just  sell  hard- 
ware. 

MicroAge  Computer  Stores  are  firmly  positioned  in  the  bus- 
iness and  professional  marketplace.  And  as  a  MicroAge 
Computer  Store  owner,  you'll  be  backed  by  one  of  the 
acknowledged  leaders,  industry  pioneers  in  microcomput- 
ing. Contact  the  Director  of  Franchising  today  to  receive  a 
complete  Franchise  Information  Package  free  of  charge 
and  at  no  obligation.  Opportunity  is  knocking . . .  you'll  see 
what  we  mean. 


MicroAge 

ca/MPUTer  sTore 

1425  W.  12th  Place  •  Tempe,  AZ  85281  •  (602)  967-1421 


PROCESSOR    2 
I 


CODE 
GENERATOR 


DISPLAY 
FILE 


__,      DISPLAY 
^     PROCESSOR 


CRT 


DATA  BASE 


Figure  1:  A  general  block  diagram  of  an  interactive  graphics-display  system.  The  functions  of  Processor  1  and  Processor  2  may  be 
performed  by  the  same  device;  however,  the  output  of  Processor  1  must  be  a  structured  abstract  of  the  image  to  be  displayed,  for  the 
graphics  package  (Processor!)  to  operate.  (The  figure  is  from  Principles  of  Interactive  Computer  Graphics,  by  Newman  and  Sproull. 
Copyright  1973,  used  with  permission  of  McGraw-Hill  Book  Company.) 


Background  on  Interactive 
Computer-Graphics  Systems 

Newman  and  Sproull,  in  their  book 
Principles   of  Interactive   Computer 


Graphics  (reference  12),  present  an 
excellent  model  of  a  generalized  in- 
teractive graphics  system,  as 
reproduced  in  figure  1.  Processor  1, 


Photo  1:  A  view  of  the  completed  Micrograph  prototype,  based  on  the  Motorola 
MC6847  video-display  generator.  Use  of  this  integrated  circuit  greatly  simplifies  hard- 
ware design  by  eliminating  the  complex  divider-chains  usually  found  in  homebrew 
video  displays. 


which  is  not  necessarily  a  different 
physical  processor  than  Processor  2, 
handles  program-specific  processing 
for  a  particular  graphics  application. 
The  output  of  this  processor  is 
generally  a  structured,  abstract 
representation  of  the  set  of  images 
that  will  be  displayed. 

Processor  2  represents  the  process- 
ing that  is  to  be  handled  by  a  graphics 
package,  as  it  is  commonly  called. 
This  processor  manipulates  the 
abstract  representations,  performing 
transformations  (such  as  rotation, 
translation,  and  scaling)  and  clipping 
as  needed.  The  output  of  this  pro- 
cessor is  generally  a  display  file  con- 
sisting of  instructions  that  are  mean- 
ingful to  a  physical  display  processor. 
The  display  processor  uses  these  in- 
structions to  produce  an  image  upon 
some  type  of  display  device.  For  in- 
teractive graphics,  these  processes 
must  occur  very  rapidly. 

Numerous  graphics  packages  for 
commercial  systems  exist  to  handle 
the  requirements  of  Processors  1  and 
2.  SIGGRAPH  (Special  Interest 
Group  on  Computer  Graphics)  of  the 
ACM  (Association  for  Computing 
Machinery)  has  proposed  a  standard 
for  such  systems.  However,  for  our 
purposes,  we  must  turn  our  attention 
to  the  display  processor  itself.  Before 
examining   the   design   for   a   color- 


66        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  38  on  inquiry  card. 


~  Q.O)       C 


CO  n 


D^-  ^  CD  Q>  wr= 


O-O 


C  <D  CD  >  en 
3  D)>  "D  X -* 


(1)  w  (DO 


-Od)1 

^  c  o 


Dx  ^  c  O 


■D  wRi! 


O   C   P 


-  O  "D  =  w  <1> 


1* 


SP 


cn>-_^0 


Q..O  c 


=  >o 


"O-^r  «_  "> 


aJnCD 


c  O  d)1—  o 
7-i  o on 


°£„;°oo-£a>£pEE 


»«    "-    t/>    t/>  -.— 


C    O-Q) 


>8£E 


graphics  display  processor,  we  must 
consider  the  characteristics  of 
calligraphic  and  raster-scan  displays. 

Comparison  of  Display 
Devices 

Four   basic   technologies   exist   to 
support  interactive  graphics: 

•  calligraphic 

•  raster-scan 

•  storage-tube 

•  plasma 

Three  of  these  devices  (calligraphic, 
raster-scan,  and  storage-tube)  are 
CRT-based,  but  only  two 
(calligraphic  and  raster-scan)  are 
adaptable    to    interactive,    rapidly 


Glossary 

Aliasing:  As  used  here,  a  granular 
or  stair-stepped  appearance  in  an 
image  caused  by  the  display  screen 
being  divided  into  a  finite  number 
of  elements.  This  effect  is  most 
noticeable  on  low-resolution 
displays  and  on  high-resolution 
displays  with  near-horizontal  or 
near-vertical  lines. 
Calligraphic  Display:  A  display, 
that  produces  an  image  from  a  col- 
lection of  vectors  and  points,  by 
directing  the  electron  beam  in  the 
X  and  Y  directions  corresponding 
to  the  vector  endpoints. 
Display  Processor:  A  special- 
purpose  peripheral  processor  that 
is  dedicated  to  producing  a  visual 
image  on  some  type  of  display 
(usually  a  CRT)  based  on  special 
graphics  instructions  in  a  display 
list. 

Instancing:  The  technique  of  defin- 
ing one  image,  then  being  able  to 
perform  transformations  to 
reproduce  the  same  image  in 
several  different  places  on  the 
display. 

Pixel:  A  picture  element. 
Raster-Scan  Display:  A  display 
that  produces  images,  just  as  in 
television,  by  amplitude  modula- 
tion of  the  Z-axis  beam  along  a  full 
screen  of  horizontal  lines  (the 
raster). 

Scan-Line  Conversion:  An 
algorithm  used  to  calculate  each 
individual  point  along  a  vector, 
given  the  starting  and  ending 
points. 

Transformation:  Modifications  of 
an  image,  such  as  translation 
(movement  in  the  X,  Y,  or  Z  axis), 
rotation  (also  in  any  axis),  and 
scaling  (also  in  any  axis). 


moving  displays. 

Calligraphic  displays  produce  im- 
ages by  drawing  vectors  using  end- 
point  information.  A  relative  or  ab- 
solute position  is  presented  to  the 
display,  and  the  electron  beam  is 
deflected  from  its  current  position. 
Analog  methods  of  vector  generation 
can  produce  high-resolution  vectors. 
Symbols  are  usually  generated  as  a 
collection  of  vectors.  Special  hard- 
ware may  also  exist  to  produce  circles 
and  arcs,  but  these  features  are 
generally  not  cost-effective. 

Calligraphic  displays  can  achieve 
resolutions  of  up  to  4096  by  4096  pix- 
els (ie:  picture  elements)  which  cor- 
responds to  16,777,216  elements 
(which  is  why  I  don't  consider  256  by 
256  pixels  or  even  512  by  512  pixels  as 
"high  resolution").  (See  reference  11.) 
Therefore,  a  21-inch-diagonal  rec- 
tangular CRT  will  typically  have  a 
spot  size  of  0.02  inches  (0.5  mm).  (See 
reference  9.)  Vectors  using  these 
techniques  will  appear  sharp  rather 
than  granular.  Several  thousand  vec- 
tors may  be  displayed  flicker-free. 

Calligraphic  displays  can  produce 
color  images  using  beam-penetration 
tubes.  This  type  of  CRT  has  multiple 
layers  of  phosphor  coating  on  the 
face  of  the  tube.  Individual  colors 
(usually  four  different  colors)  are  pro- 
duced by  varying  the  anode  voltage 


and  hence  the  depth  of  beam  penetra- 
tion. 

Raster-scan  displays  produce  an 
image  much  like  commercial  televi- 
sion by  generating  a  full  screen  of 
horizontal  lines.  This  set  of  lines  (the 
raster)  is  modulated  in  the  Z  axis  (in- 
tensity and  color)  to  produce  an  im- 
age. Vectors  are  drawn  using  digital 
scan-line-conversion  techniques 
which  compute  every  point  along  the 
vector.  Symbols  are  usually 
generated  using  a  character  generator 
which  directly  plots  each  point  of  the 
symbol. 

Raster-scan  displays  can  achieve 
resolutions  up  to  2048  by  2048  in 
monochrome  and  1024  by  1024  in 
color,  which  corresponds  to  roughly 
one  million  pixels  (for  color).  (See 
reference  9.)  The  limited  resolution 
for  color  displays  results  from  the  dif- 
ficulty in  producing  shadow  masks 
and  the  granularity  of  the  phosphor- 
dot  triples  used  in  constructing  the 
CRT.  Because  of  the  nature  of  the 
raster-scan  CRT,  the  individual  dots 
have  insignificant  overlap  and 
therefore  vectors  appear  coarse  and 
stair-stepped.  However,  techniques 
such  as  ordered-dithering  and  anti- 
aliasing algorithms  exist  to  reduce  the 
effect  of  granularity.  (See  references 
7,  10,  and  12.)  Stair-stepping  (or 
aliasing)  is  most  noticeable  in  near- 


68       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


CALLIGRAPHIC  DISPLAY                      RASTER-SCAN  DISPLAY 

Advantages 

Disadvantages      Advantages           Disadvantages 

•  High  resolution 
(4096  by  4096). 

•  Analog  circuitry  •  Digital  circuitry    •  Moderate 
often  requires          is  quite  reliable.       resolution 
adjustment.                                           (1024  by  1024 

color). 

•  Thousands  of 
vectors  can  be 
displayed. 

•  Limited  colors     •  Many  colors        •  Digital  scan-line 
(usually  four).           possible  (more         conversion  is 

than  2").                 slow. 

•  Display  has  low  •  Display  is 
brightness.              high  intensity. 

•  Limited                •  Many  (gray 
intensities                scale) 
are  possible.            intensities  exist. 

•  Shading  of           •  Shading  areas 
large  areas              is  simple, 
impossible. 

•  Flicker  occurs     •  Display  does 
when  too  many        not  flicker, 
vectors  are 
displayed. 

•  Ghosting             •  Display  has 
occurs  on                high  contrast, 
rapidly  moving 
displays. 

Table  1:  Comparison  of  calligraphic  (ie:  vector)  and  raster-scan  displays. 

Circle  39  on  inquiry  card.          > 

68000 


When  the  68K™  and  68K  MiniFrame™  were  first  announced  in  June,  the  computer  and  data  processing  world  responded 
to  their  incredible  features  with  never-before-seen  excitement! 

The  68K  constitutes  a  new  standard  in  the  micro/mini  computer  industry.  The  68K  boasts  the  power,  features  and  speed 
of  a  mini  computer,  but  at  a  micro  price.  And  our  software  is  ready  now  —  when  you  need  it!  We  are  proud  to  offer 
this  most  complete  68,000  based  product  line! 

The  first  two  months  of  68K  production  are  already  sold  out!  Place  your  30%  deposit  now  to  reserve  the  next  available  unit! 


Hardware 

68K  Two  Board  Set  (128K  bytes  RAM) 
68K  MiniFrame  (256K  bytes  RAM) 
Additional  RAM  (128K  bytes) 

Software 

Disk  Operating  System 
68,000  Assembler 
Industrial  Pascal  Compiler 
Text  Editor 
Floating  Point 

Documentation 

Hardware  Documentation 
Software  Documentation 


$3995 
$6995 
$595 


$500 
$350 
$400 
$150 
$100 


$100 
$100 


Processor  Type 

Motorola  MC68000 

Motorola  MC6609  for  I/O,  Disk, 

and  memory  management. 

*     Processor  Speed 

6  MHz. 

1     Bus  Type 

Proprietary  connector.  Adapters 

J 

available   for  S-100,   Versabus, 

1 

and  others. 

1     RAM 

Up  to  512  KBytes.  Additional  RAM 

boards   up  to  4  billion  bytes. 

Parity. 

Memory  Managemen 

Relocation    and    limit    registers. 

virtual   memory,  and  demand 

paging. 

PROM 

1  to  32  KBytes  firmware  including 

I/O  queueing  and  debugging. 

memory  management. 

Parallel  I/O 

4  Parallel  ports.  High-speed  DMA 

port  for  Winchester  or  hard  disk 

interface. 

Serial  I/O 

6  Serial  RS-232  ports. 

Disk  I/O 

Single/Double     Density    Floppy 

Disk  Controller  for  up  to  4  8" 

Drives. 

Other  Features 

Memory  Management,  Prioritized 

Interrupt  Handling,  DMA,  Mul- 

tiprocessing  and   Multitasking 

Capabilities.  Virtual  memory. 

Disk  Drives 

Dual  Shugart  8"  Double  Density. 

Miniframe 

19"    Rack    Mountable.    Includes 

Power   Supply  and   I/O  Con- 
nectors, dual  8"  disk  drives. 


MicroDaSys 


PO  Box  36215,  Los  Angeles,  CA  90036    (213)731-0876 


SAY  AH...HA! 


For  three  years,  MicroMed™  and  MicroDent™  have 
been  the  finest  micro-based  medical  and  dental  bill- 
ing systems  In  the  world.  Now,  in  the  latest  revision, 
MicroMed  and  MicroDent  represent  the  most  com- 
plete, comprehensive,  and  cost-effective  software 
billing  packages  ever. 

If  you  are  a  physician  considering  the  installation  of  a 
billing  system  for  your  medical  or  dental  office,  then 
MicroMed  and  MtcroDent  are  for  you. 

The  SoftwareHows,M  division  of  MicroDaSys  is  a 
leader  in  solution  ^rientecl  office  tools.  Both  Micro- 
Med and  MicroDent  provide  the  most  cost-effective 
way  to  automate  your  patient  accounting  and  record 
keeping  procedures. 

MicroMed  and  MicroDent  offer: 

—Complete  billing  for  small  practices  or  busy  groups! 

—Handling  of  any_  insurance  forms  (including  Medi-Cal,  Champus,  etc.) 

—Automatic  Patient  Recall  system. 

—Multiple  insurance  coverage  for  any  patient. 

—Printing  of  patient  statements  automatically. 

—Instant  recall  of  patient  ledgers  on  CRT  or  printer. 

— Daily  transactions  include  treatment  details. 

—Insurance  preautftorlzatlon  (dental). 

—All  the  reports  you  need  for  a  successful!  practice: 
— Activity  reports  itemized  by  physician. 
—Daily,  monthly  and  year-to-date  totals  by  physician. 
— Service  profitability  analysis. 
— Aged  accounts  receivable. 

—Mail  list  data  base  extracts  patients  on  the  basis  of  15  selection  criteria. 

—Mailing  labels,  lists  and  form  letter  facilities,  all  automatically. 

Not  only  is  your  billing  system  a  time  and  money  saver,  but  best  of  all  it  entitles  you,  to  terrific  ta»  advantages. 
MicroMed  and  MicroDent  include  CBASIC2  source  code  and  comprehensive  documentation.  And  the 
price  is  right!  Version  1.60F  (floppy  based)  is  just  $995  and  Version  1.65FH  (floppy  and/or  hard  disk)  is 
$1500.  If  you  don't  have  the  latest  version  2.06  of  CBASIC2,  we  can  supply  it  for  just  $150.  To  gel  you 
started,  we  include  sample  computer  forms.  A  Demo  Disk  is  available  to  dealers,  consultants  and  OEM's. 
Call  or  write  today  for  your  free  brochure,  sample  forms  and  reports. 


Then  say  Ah.-.HA! 


Lucrative  quantity  discounts 
to  dealers  and  OEMs. 


^m 


s 


a  division  of 


^iS^J 


MicroDaSys  P.O.  Box  36275  Los  Angeles,  CA  90036  Pi»n«  ttiw  rat-ana  twx:«io32U37b 


Did  you  see  our  October 
for  the  unique  and  powerfi 
Data  Base  integration™  ac- 
:ounting  SolutionWare™? 


Management  oriented 

•  Fully  integrated 

•  Powerful 

•  Easy  to  use 


; 


n  addition  to  our  superior  Ac- 
counts Payable  and  Receivable, 
General  Ledger  and  Payroll 
modules,  OrderRight™,  Micro- 
DaSys Inventory™,  and  Versa- 
Sort™  make  the  SoftwareHows 
DBI™  business  package  the  only 
serious  choice  for  today's  soft- 
are  needs. 

>on't  hesitate!  Call  or  write 
today  and  ask  us  why  our  busi- 
software  sets  a  new  Stan- 
ford of  excellence! 


" 

MOV 

VEC 

JUMP 

' 

1 

SYM 

CALL 

SYM 

VEC 

RETURN 

VEC 

VEC 

JUMP 

Figure  2:  The  display  list  of  primitive  in- 
structions performed  by  the  display  pro- 
cessor of  a  calligraphic  (ie:  vector) 
display.  The  loop  is  performed  repeatedly 
by  the  processor  to  guide  the  display  elec- 
tronics. A  new  or  modified  display  is  pro- 
duced by  altering  the  display  list. 


COLOR   DATA 


Figure  3:  A  color  raster-scan  frame  buffer.  Each  pixel  (ie:  picture  element)  on  the  screen 
is  represented  by  a  unique  set  of  X  and  Y  coordinates.  Every  coordinate  is  associated 
with  some  amount  of  color  information  (in  this  case,  4  bits).  This  data  may  be  used  to 
specify  an  address  in  a  color-look-up  table  such  as  figure  4. 


vertical  and  near-horizontal  lines. 
Any  number  of  vectors,  up  to  and  in- 
cluding a  full  CRT  screen,  can  be 
displayed  without  flicker. 

Color  raster-scan  displays  produce 
their  images  by  exciting  triads  of  dots 
or  rectangles  at  each  pixel.  Each  triad 
generally  consists  of  one  red,  one 
blue,  and  one  green  element.  Dif- 
ferent colors  (in  excess  of  216)  can  be 
produced  by  exciting  each  element  at 
different  levels  of  intensity. 

Clearly,  the  use  of  each  type  of 
display  is  associated  with  certain  ad- 
vantages and  disadvantages,  as  sum- 
marized in  table  1. 

Controlling  a  Calligraphic 
Display 

As  mentioned  previously,  a 
calligraphic  display  draws  vectors 
based  upon  endpoint  information. 
Even  the  most  complex  images  can  be 
created  as  a  collection  of  vectors. 
Because  of  the  short  persistence  of  the 
CRT  phosphors  required  for  a  fast 
calligraphic  display,  once  a  vector  is 
drawn,  it  will  disappear  very  quickly, 
typically  in  just  a  few  milliseconds. 
Thus,  the  entire  display  must  be  con- 
tinuously refreshed  to  avoid  flicker 
and  a  loss  of  portions  of  the  image. 


Refresh  rates  vary  with  the  intensity 
of  the  display,  but  the  image  must  be 
refreshed  at  least  30  times  per  second. 

These  requirements  give  rise  to  a 
structure  called  a  display  list.  As 
figure  2  indicates,  a  display  list  is 
simply  a  collection  of  primitive  in- 
structions for  the  display  processor. 
The  display  processor  repeatedly 
scans  this  list  to  send  vector-drawing 
information  to  the  display  elec- 
tronics. To  modify  a  display,  Pro- 
cessor 2  (of  figure  1)  simply  points  the 
display  processor  to  a  new  display 
list,  or  inserts  or  deletes  a  portion  of 
the  existing  list.  Generally,  a  display 
list  is  stored  external  to  the  display 
processor  in  the  host-processor 
memory  and  is  addressed  via  DMA 
(direct  memory  access). 

Numerous  instruction  sets  have 
been  devised  for  calligraphic-display 
processors.  Since  displays  at  this 
primitive  level  are  very  difficult  to 
control,  the  trend  is  toward  higher- 
level  graphics  languages.  However, 
all  primitive  instruction  sets  must 
contain  certain  basic  features,  in- 
cluding primitives  to  move  the  beam, 
draw  a  line,  draw  a  character,  call  a 
subroutine,  and  change  colors  or  in- 
tensity. 


Controlling  a  Raster-Scan 
Display 

Unlike  calligraphic  displays,  raster- 
scan  displays  generally  employ  what 
is  known  as  a  frame  buffer.  The 
frame  buffer  is  essentially  a  block  of 
memory  that  maintains  a  one-to-one 
correspondence  with  the  set  of  pixels. 
In  other  words,  there  exists  one 
memory  location  for  every  pixel.  A 
pixel  can  be  specified  in  one  or  more 
bits,  as  figure  3  indicates.  Thus,  color 
information  for  a  pixel  is  stored  at 
each  memory  location.  In  color 
raster-scan  displays,  this  memory 
location  does  not  necessarily  hold 
physical  color  information,  but  often 
supplies  a  pointer  to  a  color-look-up 
table,  as  figure  4  indicates.  Thus,  for 
example,  a  pixel  may  be  specified  by 
4  bits,  but  the  color  information  may 
be  translated  to  any  sixteen  of  a  possi- 
ble 216  colors.  This  technique  allows 
the  display  of  many  different  colors 
with  a  conservation  of  memory.  The 
techniques  of  contrast  stretching  and 
pseudocoloring  can  be  easily 
achieved  with  a  color-look-up  table. 

A  raster-scan  display  does  require  a 
large  amount  of  memory  to  imple- 
ment the  frame  buffer.  For  example,  a 
display  with  a  resolution  of  512  by 


70       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  40  on  Inquiry  card. 


Do  more 

than  ever  before- 

spend  less  than 

you  planned 


Heath  makes  the  All-In-One  Computer  more  versatile 


Many  satisfied  customers  know 
Heath  takes  the  risk  out  of  buying  a 
balanced  computer  system.  With  the 
Heathkit  All-in -One  Computer,  you 
get  16K  Random  Access  Memory 
(expandable  to  48K),  keyboard,  video 
terminal  and  floppy  disk  system  - 
together  in  one  self-contained,  com- 
pact unit  -  for  up  to  hundreds  of 
dollars  less  than  comparable  systems. 

Heath  now  makes  the  All-in -One 
Computer  more  versatile  than  ever! 
The  new  Heathkit  H77  Floppy  Disk 
System  gives  the  All-in-One  even 
more  data  storage  and  recall  capac- 
ity. Combined,  the  All-  In -One  and 
H77  Floppy  Disk  give  you  up  to  300K 


bytes  of  on-line  data  storage  - 
enough  to  hold  entire  files;  You  can 
mount  operating  system  and  pro- 
gram disks  at  the  same  time,  to  make 
computing  even  faster. 

You  can  run  programs  written  in 
MICROSOFT™  BASIC™  and  As- 
sembly Languages,  and  all  current 
software  written  for  the  popular 
Heathkit  H8  Computer. 

Heath  User's  Group  (HUG)  will  share 
with  you  a  library  of  over  500  pro- 
grams to  make  your  computer  serve 
you  in  ways  you  never  imagined. 

There's  no  better  way  to  learn  about 
computer  systems  -  and  save  money 
-  than  by  building  one  yourself. 

Heathkit 


SEND  FOR  FREE  CATALOG     VISIT  YOUR  HEATHKIT  STORE 


Concise,  easy-to-follow  Heathkit 
assembly  manuals  show  you  the 
way,  from  start  to  finish.  And  a  na- 
tionwide network  of  service  centers 
protects  your  computer  investment. 

Join  the  Heathkit  computer  family 
today  -  and  pocket  the  savings! 

For  complete  details  on  Heathkit 
computer  systems,  as  well  as  nearly 
400  other  electronic  kits  for  your 
home,  work  or  pleasure,  send  today 
for  your  free,  value-packed  Heathkit 
catalog.  Or  pick  up  your  copy  at  the 
nearest  Heathkit  Electronic  Center. 


Vftite  to:  HEATH  COMPANY, 
DEPARTMENT  334-714, 
BENTON  HARBOR,  MI  49022 


In  the  U.S.  and  Canada,  visit  your 
nearby  Heathkit  Electronic  Center  where 
Heathkit  products  are  also  displayed, 
sold  and  serviced.  See  the  white  pages  of 
your  phonebook.  In  the  U.S.,  Heathkit 
Electronic  Centers  are  units  of 
Vehtechnology  Electronics  Corporation. 


CP-184 


512  by  8  requires  256  K  bytes  of 
memory.  This  drawback  is  one  of  the 
primary  reasons  that  raster-scan 
devices  have  only  recently  become 
cost-effective. 

Using  a  frame  buffer,  an  image  is 
drawn  by  inserting  color  information 
into  the  memory  location 
corresponding  to  the  appropriate  pix- 
el. This  architecture  has  the  feature  of 
producing  flicker-free  images; 
however,  to  draw  vectors  the  display 
processor  must  calculate  every  point 
along  the  vector.  Scan-line- 
conversion  algorithms  that  calculate 
the  points  of  a  vector  (given  the  end- 
points)  exist,  but  such  algorithms  are 
slow  compared  to  analog  techniques 
used  in  calligraphic  displays.  Once  an 
image  is  written  into  the  frame  buffer, 
it  will  be  continuously  displayed. 
Refresh  is  not  required  by  the  host, 
but  the  image  cannot  be  modified  as  a 
calligraphic  display  can. 

Clearly,  the  characteristics  of  color 
raster-scan  displays  present  control 
problems  unlike  those  for  calligraphic 
displays.  We  must  therefore  not  only 
exploit  the  inherent  color-display 
potential,  but  we  must  also  deal  with 
the  problems  of  selectively  updating  a 
raster-scan  display.  As  the  next  sec- 
tion indicates,  we  can  adapt 
calligraphic  control  techniques  to  ef- 
fectively control  a  color  raster-scan 
display. 

Primitives  for  a  Color  Raster- 
Scan  Display 

To  develop  an  instruction  set  for  a 
color-graphics  display  processor,  we 
must  first  establish  our  requirements. 
We  assume  as  a  minimum  that  these 
primitive  instructions  will  be  ex- 
ecuted by  an  intelligent  display  pro- 
cessor having  both  a  single-frame 
buffer  and  a  color-look-up  table. 
Therefore,  we  require  that: 

•  The  set  of  graphics  primitives  must 
permit  the  construction  of  any  im- 
age within  the  physical  limitations 
of  the  raster-scan  display.  The  set 
doesn't  need  to  be  minimal:  effi- 
ciency is  a  more  important 
characteristic. 

•  The  graphics  primitives  must  be 
implementation-independent.  The 
primitives  must  be  applicable  to 
any  resolution  and  not  be  con- 
strained by  word  size  or  any 
similar  characteristic  of  the  target 
processor. 

•  The  graphics  primitives  must  be 

Circle  41  on  Inquiry  card.  ^^^ 


SYBEX  has  the  keys  to  BASIC 


Have  more  fun . . . 
Learn  more  BASIC 


Hands-on  BASIC! 


; 


INSIDE  BASIC  GAMES 

by  Richard  Mateosian 

300  pp    100  illustr.     Ref  B245 
7"x9"    ISBN  0-89588-055-5    $13.95 

Describes  BASIC  programming  tech- 
niques within  the  framework  of  real 
games.  Blackjack  and  craps,  math 
games  and  others  are  presented 
and  analyzed  in  detail,  teaching  the 
reader  to  design  effective  programs 
as  well  as  to  play  the  games.  An 
effective  and  enjoyable  way  for  any- 
one with  an  elementary  knowledge 
of  BASIC  to  learn  to  design  and  pro- 
gram algorithms.  The  programs  are 
written  in  MICROSOFT  BASIC  and 
can  run  on  a  PET/CBM,  APPLE  II  or 
TRS-80  among  others. 


FIFTY  BASIC  EXERCISES 

by  J.  P.  Lamoitier 

300  pp    140  illustr.    Ref  B250 

7"x9"    ISBN  0-89588-056-3     $12.95 

The  BASIC  book  with  style.  This  is 
the  book  for  the  educated  reader, 
designed  to  teach  BASIC  through 
actual  practice.  Each  of  fifty  gradu- 
ated exercises  is  explained  in  full 
detail  with  flowcharts  and  program 
listings.  Applications  for  mathema- 
tics, business,  physics,  accounting, 
games  and  statistics  illuminate 
BASIC  programming  techniques  and 
develop  the  reader's  ability  to  con* 
sistently  write  attractive,  effective 
programs.  Includes  a  comparison 
and  evaluation  of  useful  BASIC  ex- 
tensions. All  programs  are  written  in 
MICROSOFT  BASIC. 


I  the  leader  in  computer  education,  enters  a  new  era 
with  the  simultaneous  publication  of  four  new  books 
^k^r  on  high  level  languages.  These  volumes  employ  the  same 
effective  methods  developed  by  SYBEX  to  teach  machine  language 
programming  in  such  best  sellers  as  PROGRAMMING  THE  Z80  and 
PROGRAMMING  THE  6502.  From  YOUR  FIRST  COMPUTER  and  the 
CP/M  HANDBOOK  to  the  new  BASIC  and  PASCAL  series,  SYBEX  is 
meeting  the  changing  needs  of  the  micro  generation. 

YBEX — Anticipating  your  needs  in  computer 

ducation . . . 


SYBEX  unlocks  PASCALS 


A  unique 

reference  for  all  PASCALS 


THE  PASCAL 
HANDBOOK 

by  Jacques  Tiberghien 
300  pp    150  illustr.     Ref  320 
7"x9"  ISBN  0-89588-053-9  $14.95 

A  completely  new  approach  to 
PASCAL.  Every  PASCAL  sym- 
bol, reserved  word,  identifier 
and  operation  is  described  in 
alphabetical  order.  Each  entry 
includes  definition,  syntactic 
diagram  and  semantic  descrip- 
tion, implementation,  varia- 
tions and  program  examples. 
Easy  to  use,  comprehensive 
and  concise,  this  unique  hand- 
book is  indispensable  to  all 
PASCAL  users.  Covers  most 
versions  of  PASCAL  including 
Jensen  and  Wirth  (Standard 
and  CDC  Version),  H-P  1000, 
OMSI  (DEC),  PASCAL/Z,  ISO 
and  UCSD  PASCAL. 


INTRODUCTION  TO  PASCAL 
(INCLUDING  UCSD  PASCAL) 

by  Rod  nay  Zaks 

320  pp    100  illustr.     Ref  P310 

7"x9"     ISBN  0-89588-050-4    $12.95 

A  simple,  step-by-step  guide  to  the  elegant  lan- 
guage of  PASCAL.  The  logical  format,  clear 
explanations  of  each  concept,  symbol  and  oper- 
ation, and  the  progressive  exercises  at  the  end 
of  each  chapter  will  have  everyone — beginners, 
students  and  professionals — writing  effective 
programs  in  a  short  time.  This  first  volume  in 
the  SYBEX  PASCAL  series  covers  Standard 
PASCAL  as  well  as  UCSD  PASCAL,  the  most 
widely  used  version  on  small  computers. 


a  INSIDE  BASIC  GAMES  $13.95 
D  THE  PASCAL  HANDBOOK  $14.95 


MAIL  TO:  SYBEX 

DEPT.  B11 

2344  SIXTH  STREET 

BERKELEY,  CA  94710 

PHONE  ORDERS:  415/848-8233 


PLEASE  SEND  ME 

□  FIFTY  BASIC  EXERCISES  $12.95 

D  INTRODUCTION  TO  PASCAL  $12.95 

NAME 

ADDRESS  

CITY 

PLUS  D  $1.50/book  UPS  or        D  750/book  4th  class  mail       (CA  add  tax) 

TOTAL  AMT.  ENCLOSED  OR  CHARGE  MY  □  VISA     □  MC     □  AM.  EX. 

CARD  # EXP.  DATE 

SIGNATURE 


ZIP_ 


D  PLEASE  SEND  ME  YOUR  FREE  CATALOG 


NO  FRILLS! 

NO  GIMMICKS! 

JUST  GREAT 

DISCOUNTS 

MAIL  ORDER  ONLY 


ATARI  800 

Personal  Computer 

System $79900 

NORTHSTAR 

Horizon  II  32K 234900 

Horizon  II  Quad 279900 

Horizon  II  64K 299900 

Horizon  Quad  64K 339900 

_____  _ 

912  74900 

920  79900 

_____ 

1420  79500 

1500  84900 

1510  104900 

1520  122900 

0KIDATA  ~ 

Microline80 69900 

S0R0C  Technology 

iq  120  69900 

iq  140  99900 

CR0MEMC0 

System  3  569500 

Z2H  799500 

INTERTEC 

Superbrain32K 249500 

Superbrain64K .279500 

DECwriter  IV 

LA34  97900 


TEXAS  INSTRUMENT 

810  Multicopy 
Impact  Printer 149900 


We'll  meet  or  beat  any  advertised  prices! 


Most  items  in  stock  lor  immediate  delivery 
Factory  sealed  cartons  Full  manufacturer' s  guarantee 

DATA  DISCOUNT  CENTER 

Box  1 00 1 35-53  Northern  Blvd.,  Flushing,  NY.  11354 

Visa*  Master  Charge  »N.Y  S  residents  add  SalesTax 
Shipping  F  OB  NY 

Phone  Orders  Call  212-465-6609 


s 

N 

0 

\ 

X 

N 

\ 

"s. 

N, 

COLOR 
DATA 

1 

PIXEL 


COLOR    LOOK  UP  TABLE 


WHICH 
POINTS 

TO   •«. 


1111 

10      0       1 

0      0      10 

1  1  1 

1  1  1 

1  1  1 

0  0  0      0 

0  0  0       1 

0  0  10 

0  0  11 


1111 


GREEN 


BLUE 


DIGITAL  /ANALOG 
CONVERTERS 


Figure  4:  Color-look-up  table.  Using  this  scheme,  a  4-bit  value  from  the  frame  buffer 
(shown  in  figure  3)  can  select  one  of  sixteen  predefined  colors.  In  this  example,  each  col- 
or is  composed  of  various  intensities  of  red,  green,  and  blue.  Other  systems  may  specify 
colors  by  indicating  values  for  intensity,  hue,  and  saturation. 


adaptable  to  a  display-list  struc- 
ture, since  display  lists  are  a  well- 
established  form  of  control  for 
display  processors  and  hence  per- 
mit straightforward  integration 
with  generalized  graphics-support 
software  in  the  host  processor. 

Graphics  Primitives 

As  explained  previously,  we  know 
that  raster-scan  and  calligraphic 
displays  are  architecturally  different. 
However,  our  third  requirement  in- 
dicates that  both  classes  of  displays 
must  at  least  appear  identical  to  the 
user.  Therefore,  our  graphics 
primitives  become  an  abstraction  for 
the  control  of  a  raster-scan  display. 
We  must  design  a  set  of  primitives  in- 
dependent of  the  actual  architecture 
of  the  display.  Just  as  with  the 
benefits  of  using  a  high-level  pro- 
gramming language,  the  use  of 
abstractions  in  controlling  a  graphics 


display  allows  the  user  to  concentrate 
upon  producing  images  rather  than 
concerning  himself  with  the 
mechanics  of  the  implementation. 

Before  examining  the  primitives  for 
a  color  raster-scan  display,  it  is  im- 
portant that  you  understand  two  very 
critical  abstractions.  First,  it  is 
necessary  that  the  user  visualize  the 
display  processor  as  manipulating  a 
two-dimensional  Cartesian  surface, 
with  the  origin  of  the  space  at  some 
predefined  location  (usually  the 
center,  or  lower  left-hand  corner)  on 
the  display  surface.  There  may  or 
may  not  be  a  direct  mapping  of  pixel 
data  in  the  display-processor  memory 
to  this  surface:  the  actual  implemen- 
tation should  be  invisible  to  the  user. 

From  the  previous  section,  we 
know  that  the  display  processor 
doesn't  need  to  be  concerned  with 
identification  of  objects  that  are 
displayed  in  this  space,  but  rather  we 


74        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  42  on  inquiry  card. 


Pump  Up  Your  TRS-80  with  the  ES/F  Mass  Storage  System 


THESE  FACTS  SPEAK  FOR  THEMSELVES! 


▲  Actual  Size 


Actual  Thickness  ▼ 


CASSETTE 

ES/F 

MINI-DISK 

SPEED                      56 

(Seconds  to 
load  "Blackjack") 

6 
(5'  wafer) 

6J4 

CAPACITY 

(thousands 
of  bytes) 

38 

(C-20) 

64 
(75'  wafer) 

59 
(TRSDOS) 

RELIABILITY 

(Designed  for 
digital  data?) 

NO 

YES 

YES 

SYSTEM  COST 

(First  unit 
plus  interface) 

$60 

$250 

$800 

MEDIA  COST 

(in  quantities 
often) 

$3.10 
cassette 

$3.00 
wafer 

$3.20 
disk 

Let's  face  it.  Cassette  players  were  not 
designed  to  store  digital  data  and  pro- 
grams. That's  why  we  designed  a  digita 
storage  system  using  a  continuous  tape 
loop:  the  Exatron  Stringy/ Floppy 
(ES/F)  and  the  Wafer.  There's  no  ex- 
pensive interface  to  buy— the  ES/F 
comes  ready  to  pump  up  your  TRS-80.* 

Once  your  TRS-80*  is  pumped  up  by 
our  ES/F .  .  .  you  won't  want  to  deflate 
it.  We're  so  sure,  that  we  offer  an 
unconditional  30-day  money-back 
guarantee  and  a  one-year  limited  war- 
ranty. Over  2.000  TRS-80*  owners  have, 
met  the  wafer . . .  why  don't  you7  " 


EXATRON i 
STRINGY/FLOPP 

SPEED,  CAPACITY 
AND  RELIABILITY  < 
FOR  ONLY  $249.50 


f 


m 


CALL 

OUR  HOTLINE 

(800)-538-8559 

IN  CALIFORNIA. 
CALL  (408)  737-7111 


e* 


;«* 


exatron,  inc. 

181  Commercial  Street 
Sunnyvale.  Calif.  94086 


"TRS-80  is  a  registered  trademark  of  Tandy  Corp. 


Circle  43  on  inquiry  card. 


JDR  MICRODEVICES,  INC. 

j  is  expanding  its  wholesale  electronics  operations  to 
|  provide  you  with  the  best  pricing  avialable.  JDR 

gives  your  the  highest  quality  components  along 
|  with  great  service  that  gets  your  order  out  the  door 

jn  24  hours. 


MEMORY  SPECIALS ' 

2101        450ns 

249 

1702 

4.95 

2102        450ns 

.99 

2708 

6.25 

21L02      450ns 

1.29 

2716       5v 

14.95 

2112        450ns 

2.99 

2732 

59.95 

2114        450ns 

4.99 

Z-80 

9.95 

4116        200ns 

5.99 

8085A 

12.95 

4116 

250ns     8/39.95 

LS  SERIES 

LOOK  AT  THIS  LS  PRICING! 

74LS00 

.32 

74LS85 

1.23     74LS175 

1.09 

74LS02 

.38 

74LS86 

,45     74LS191 

1.31 

74LS04 

.35 

74LS93 

.71      74LS195 

1  39 

74LS08 

38 

74LS95 

1.11      74LS221 

1.28 

74LS10 

.32 

74LS109 

.49     74LS240 

1.89 

74LS20 

.35 

74LS138 

,79     74LS241 

1.89 

74LS30 

.35 

74LS139 

.79     74LS244 

1.79 

74LS32 

.39 

74LS151 

79     74LS283 

1. 03 

74LS38 

.39 

74LS153 

,79     74LS298 

1  24 

74LS42 

.79 

74LS157 

.79     74LS367 

99 

74LS51 

.35 

74LS158 

82     74LS368 

.99 

74LS54 

.35 

74LS161 

.99     74LS373 

1.85 

74LS73 

44 

74LS163 

.99     74LS374 

1.81 

74LS74 

48 

74LS174 

1.19     74LS377 

1.48 

OTHER  SPECIALS 

7400 

10/1.99             95H90 

7  95 

7404 

10/199             RED  LED                   10/100 

7447 

5/2.49             GREEN  LED 

6/1  00 

7490 

5/1.99             YELLOW  LED 

6/1.00 

7493 

5/1.99             2N3904 

8/1.00 

74151 

3/1.99             2N3906 

8/1.00 

74153 

3/1.99             2N3055 

.79 

74157 

3/199             4MHZ  Crystal 

2.00 

74161 

5/3.99             5MHZ  Crystal 

2.00 

74163 

5/3.99             10MHZ  Crystal 

2.00 

LINEAR  IC'S 

LM301-8 

.34 

LM555-8 

.39 

LM310 

.64 

LM556 

.69 

LM3118 

.64 

LM565 

.99 

LM318-8 

1.49 

LM567 

1.29 

LM319 

1.29 

LM741-8 

.29 

LM324 

.59 

LM747 

.79 

LM377 

2.29 

LM1458-8 

.69 

LM380 

1.29 

LM1889 

249 

REGULATORS 

7805T 

89 

7905T 

.99 

781 2T 

89 

7912T 

99 

781 5T 

.99 

7905K 

1.29 

DIP 

IC 

SWITCHES 

SOCKETS 

4  position 

99 

14  pin                 10/1.49 

5  position 

.02 

16  pin                 10/1.69 

6  position 

06 

24  pin 

4/1.00 

7  position 

.09 

IMSAI  S-100  edge 

8  position 

.14 

connector  solder  tail 

gold    2.49 

MA1012A 
CLOCK  MODULE 

Complete  alarm  clock  module  with  special  I 
transformer  and  spec  sheets  included  Just  add  | 
switches      8.99     3/24 


TERMS:  Include  $2.00  lor  shipping.  $10.00 
minimum  order.  Send  SASE  for  com 
plete  catalog 

JDR  MICRODEVICES,  INC. 

1101  South  Winchester  Blvd. 

San  Jose,  California  95128 

408  2474852 


need  only  to  be  able  to  manipulate 
the  pixel  data  that  forms  these  ob- 
jects. 

The  second  abstaction  which  we 
must  develop  concerns  graphics- 
display  registers.  These  registers  are 
defined  in  the  display  processor  and 
may  be  addressed  by  the  user  to  set 
up  global  image  parameters,  such  as 
current  vector  type,  or  to  provide  im- 
mediate processor-status  informa- 
tion, such  as  the  current  X  and  Y  posi- 
tion. Clearly,  these  registers  may  be 
implemented  in  diverse  portions  of 
the  display  hardware.  Concerning  the 
second  requirement,  it  is  important 
that  the  user  sees  these  registers  as  an 
easily  addressable  set  that  may  be 
referenced  by  the  host  processor.  As 
we  shall  see,  the  use  of  graphics- 
display  registers  helps  reduce  the 
scope  of  some  of  the  graphics 
primitives  that  are  necessary  to  con- 
trol a  color  raster-scan  display. 

It  is  evident,  as  with  any  graphics 
display,  that  the  minimum  set  of  in- 
structions we  need  includes  only  a 
point-positioning  and  a  vector- 
drawing  primitive.  But  clearly,  this 
set  is  by  no  means  efficient.  Thus,  I 
will  present  and  defend  the  set  of 
graphics  primitives  for  a  color  raster- 
scan  display  which  will  be  im- 
plemented in  Micrograph.  Next  I 
will  present  the  primitive  instruc- 
tions in  their  mnemonic  form  in  order 
to  maintain  their  implementation  in- 
dependence. 

As  with  a  calligraphic  display,  one 
of  the  most  fundamental  operations 
we  perform  is  point  positioning. 
Since  a  raster-scan  display  does  not 
produce  an  image  by  beam  move- 
ment, but  rather  by  Z-axis  modula- 
tion, we  must  abstract  current  X  and 
Y  coordinates,  which  may  also  be  ad- 
dressed as  graphics-display  registers. 
To  increase  the  utility  of  a  move 
primitive  (ie:  primitive  instruction 
specifying  a  movement),  we  must  in- 
clude several  options.  To  begin,  both 
absolute  and  relative  point  position- 
ing are  necessary.  The  need  for  ab- 
solute positioning  is  obvious;  relative 
positioning  permits  an  entire  display 
to  be  defined  relative  to  a  single  point 
in  the  image,  which  is  an  essential 
feature  if  subroutines  and  instancing 
are  to  be  supported. 

Furthermore,  remember  that  the 
elements  of  an  image  are  often  closely 
spaced:  thus,  we  need  options  for 
long  and  short  movement.  With  a 


long  movement,  we  may  express  a 
point  position  in  the  full-screen  coor- 
dinates (for  either  absolute  or  relative 
positioning).  With  a  short  movement, 
we  may  express  a  point  position  with 
a  limited  maximum  value  (such  as  0 
to  7,  again  either  absolute  or 
relative).  Therefore,  it's  possible  to 
decrease  display-list  memory  re- 
quirements with  the  use  of  short 
movements,  which  take  less  storage 
than  a  long  instruction.  Finally,  it  is 
often  necessary  to  simply  plot  a  single 
point.  To  do  so,  we  must  include  the 
option  to  illuminate  or  not.  If  we  il- 
luminate, we  obviously  must  include 
a  parameter  for  the  color  of  the  point. 
Mnemonically,  our  move  primitive 
can  be  represented  as: 

MOVT,M,C,I,(±)X,(±)Y 

where: 

T  =  type  (Short  or  Long  move- 
ment) 

M  =  mode  (Absolute  or  Relative 
positioning) 
C  =  color 

I  =  illuminate  (Yes  or  No) 
X  =  X  position  or  offset  (with  a 
sign  on  the  relative  mode) 
Y  =  Y  position  or  offset  (with  a 
sign  on  the  relative  mode) 

For  example,  the  primitive: 

MOVS,R,4,Y,+3,-4 

moves  the  current  X,Y  position  by  an 
offset  of  (3,-4)  and  illuminates  that 
point  in  a  color  whose  code  is  4. 

The  next  obvious  primitive  we 
need  performs  vector  drawing.  With 
the  same  justification  as  for  the  move 
primitive,  we  must  permit  the  options 
of  long  and  short  vectors.  We  assume 
that  the  starting  point  of  the  vector  is 
the  current  X,  Y  position,  and  the  end- 
points  are  determined  by  either  ab- 
solute or  relative  positioning.  Just  as 
with  a  move  primitive,  we  must  also 
be  able  to  specify  the  color  of  the  vec- 
tor. Finally,  we  must  be  able  to  define 
the  current  vector  type,  such  as  solid, 
dashed,  or  dotted  vectors.  Experience 
indicates  that  such  line  types  are  rare- 
ly used.  Therefore,  rather  than  speci- 
fying this  parameter  in  the  primitive 
itself,  we  assume  that  we  have 
available  a  graphics-display  register 
that  defines  the  current  line  type. 
Mnemonically,  our  vector  primitive 


For  years  many  small  business  system  buyers 
thought  that  in  order  to  get  "real"  performance 
and  enough  storage  to  be  a  "real"  business  system 
they  would  have  to  sacrifice  the  family  jewels. 

But  with  the  introduction  of  the  Smoke  Signal 
Chieftain  series  office  computers  a  lot  of  people's 
minds  have  been  changed. 

Because  we  designed  the  highly  reliable 
Chieftain  small  business  system  with  the  most 
innovative  combination  of  performance  and  effi- 
ciency around. 

At  your  fingertips  there  are  64,000  characters 
of  random  access  memory  and  you  can  address 
anywhere  from  740,000  characters  to  2  million 
characters  with  Smoke  Signals's  new  double  den- 
sity controller.  For  larger  concerns,  there's  a  20M 
byte  hard  disk  available. 

At  a  time  when  other  small  computer  manu- 
facturers tell  you  "you're  on  your  own".  Smoke 
Signal  offers  an  abundance  of  easy-to-use  software 
programs  such  as  order  entry,  inventory  control,    / 


accounts  receivable,  invoice  entry,  payroll,  word 
processing  and  much,  much  more.  There's  BASIC, 
COBOL  and  FORTRAN  —  even  a  multi-user  BOS 
(Business  Operating  System)  that  allows  for 
numerous  users  simultaneously. 

Chieftain  systems 
starting  at  under  $200.00 
per  month  display  per- 
formance on  par  with  sys- 
tems costing  twice  to 
three  times  as  much. 

So  call  (213)  889-9340 
for  your  nearest  autho- 
rized Smoke  Signal  dealer  —  he'll  be  glad  to 
demonstrate  the  Chieftain's  high  reliability  and 

ease  of  operation.  For  dealers  only,  circle  45 

All  other  inquiries,  circle  44 


SMOKE  SIGNAL    W,  BROADCASTING 

31336  Via  Colinas.  Westlake  Village.  California  91361,  (213)  889-9340 


/-v 


, 

J 


s 


/ 


can  be  represented  as: 

VECT,M,C,(±)X,(±)Y 
where: 

T  =  type  (Short  or  Long  move- 
ment) 

M  =  mode  (Relative  or  Absolute 
endpoints) 
C  =  color 

X  =  X  position  or  offset  (with  a 
sign  in  the  relative  mode) 
Y  =  Y  position  or  offset  (with  a 
sign  in  the  relative  mode) 

For  example,  the  primitive: 

VEC  L,A,15,255,180 

draws  a  vector  (with  the  color  coded 
15)  from  the  current  X,Y  position  to 
the  pixel  (255,180). 

We  must  have  an  instruction  that 
allows  us  to  call  a  subroutine.  Such  a 
primitive  is  essential  to  support  object 
instancing.  Furthermore,  since  we 
assume  the  existence  of  an  intelligent 
target  display  processor,  we  must  ex- 
pand our  primitive  to  permit  a  call  to 
a  display-processor  subroutine.  Such 


an  option  allows  the  user  to  execute 
his  own  predefined  routines,  which 
can  possibly  decrease  the  image- 
generation  time  and  reduce  some  of 
the  processing  burden  from  the  host 
for  often-used  routines.  Clearly,  this 
option  is  not  essential,  but  it  does 
allow  the  user  to  exploit  the  full 
capabilities  of  the  display  processor. 
Mnemonically,  our  call  primitive  (ie: 
primitive  instruction  to  call  a 
subroutine)  can  be  represented  as: 


CALL  T,N 


where: 


T  =  type  of  subroutine  (Processor 

or  Graphics) 

N     =     name     or     number     of 

subroutine 

For  example,  the  primitive: 
CALL  G7 

calls  the  grapics  subroutine  number  7. 
Along  with  the  call  primitive,  we 
obviously  must  have  a  primitive 
which  allows  us  to  return  from  a 
subroutine.  Our  return  primitive  in- 
struction can  be  represented  as: 


RET 


Text  is  often  an  element  of  a 
display  and  therefore  warrants  its 
own  primitive.  It  is  important  to 
realize  that  text  usually  occurs  as  a 
string  of  symbols  rather  than  a  single 
symbol.  Therefore,  we  must  include 
an  option  to  display  a  number  of  con- 
tiguous symbols.  Furthermore,  in 
terms  of  the  symbols  themselves,  we 
may  wish  to  use  either  a  standard 
alphanumeric  font  or  a  user-defined 
font.  Therefore,  we  assume  the 
availability  of  a  programmable  sym- 
bol generator.  As  will  be  explained, 
the  user  may  define  his  own  set  of 
symbols  and  then  display  a  string  of 
symbols  by  using  the  symbol 
primitive,  passing  it  the  codes  for  the 
appropriate  symbols.  Mnemonically, 
our  symbol  primitive  can  be 
represented  as: 


SYM  N,S„..S„- 


where: 


N   =   number  of  symbols  in  the 

string 

Si  =  symbol  code 


Building  Blocks  for 
Microcomputer  Systems, 
Dedicated  Controllers 
and  Test  Equipment. 


R2l/0 

S-100  ROM, 

RAM  &  I/O 

BOARD 


ECT's  R2l/0  is  an  S-100  Bus  I/O  Board  with  3  Serial 
I/O  Ports  (UART's),  1  Parallel  I/O  Port,  4  Status  Ports, 
2K  of  ROM  with  the  8080  Apple  Monitor  Program  and 
2K  of  Static  RAM. 

$295.00 


RM-10 
S-100 

RACK  MOUNT 
CARD  CAGE 


ECT's  RM-10  is  a  rack  mount  10  slot  Card  Cage  with 
Power  Supply,  consisting  of  an  ECT-100  rack  mount 
Card  Cage  (19"W  x  12.25"H  x  8"D),  the  MB-10  Mother 
Board  (with  ground  plane  and  termination)  all  10 
connectors  and  guides  and  the  PS-15A  Power  Supply 
(15A  @  8V,  1.5A  @  ±  16V). 


$295.00 


Specializing  in  Quality  Microcomputer  Hardware 

Industrial  •  Educational  •  Small  Business  •  Personal 

Card  Cages,  Power  Supplies,  Mainframes,  CPU's,  Memory,  IIO,  OEM  Variations 


ELECTRONIC  CONTROL  TECHNOLOGY 


763  Ramsey  Ave.,  Hillside,  NJ  07205 


(201)  686-8080 


78       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  46  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  47  on  inquiry  card.  ' 


NOW  CLEANING  YOUR  OWN 

DISKETTE  HEADS  COULD  SAVE 

YOU  A$40  SERVICE  CALL. 

AND  A  LOT  MORE. 


I 


m     "Tic 


The  recording  heads  on  your 
diskette  drives  may  be  dirty— 
and  that  can  cause  you  a  tot  of 
grief.  There's  the  serviceman 
you  have  to  call  when  the 
machine  doesn't  perform.  {You 
know  how  much  service  calls 
cost  these  days!)  There's 
machine  down-time,  idle  data 
entry  clerks.  All  the  other  delays 
a  cranky  machine  can  cause. 
And  that  service  call  might 
not  even  be  necessary. 

3M  solves  the  problem 
in  seconds— and  leaves 

your  heads 
"Computer  Room  Clean" 

The  Scotch*  head-cleaning 
diskette  kit  lets  you  clean  the 
read-write  heads  on  your 
8"  or  514"  diskette  drives.  In  just 
30  seconds,  without  any 
disassembly,  mess  or  bother, 
the  heads  can  be  completely 
cleansed  of  dirt,  dust,  magnetic 
oxides-ait  the  things  that  can 
get  into  your  machines  every 
day.  And  foul  them  up. 

Just  saturate  the  special 
white  cleaning  pad  in  its  jacket 
with  the  cleaning  solution.  Then 
insert  the  jacket  into  the  disk- 
ette drive  and  turn  it  on.  Your 
machine  does  the  rest.  The 


heads  are  microscopically  cleaned 
without  wear,  without  abrasion. 

This  3M  head-cleaning 
diskette  kit  has  been  evaluated 
and  approved  by  major  diskette 
drive  manufacturers.  If  s  the 
best  possible  way  to  clean  your 
heads  without  service  caits  or 
machine  teardowns. 


At  only  $1  per  cleaning- 
it's  the  best  insurance  you 
can  get. 

This  fast-cleaning  new  Scotch 
kit  comes  with  everything 
you  need  (including  special 
fluid,  applicator  tip,  cleaning 
diskettes)  to  handle  up  to 
30  cleanings.  That's  only  about 
a  dollar  a  cleaning. 

With  the  Scotch  head-clean- 
ing diskette  kit,  you  could  save 
yourself  a  lot  more  than  just  a 
service  call.  So  try  this  remark- 
able kit  today.  For  the  name  of 


A  Score/?  cleaning  diskette  shown 
before  use,  and  after  IS  cleanings 
of  recording  heads. 


thedea 

free:  800-328-1300. 

(In  Minnesota,  call  collect: 

612-736-9625.)  Ask  for  the 

Data  Recording  Products 

Division. 


■< 


For  example,  if  we  have  defined  a 
128-character  ASCII  (American  Stan- 
dard Code  for  Information  Inter- 
change) set  of  symbols,  the  primitive: 

SYM  5,68,80,77,80,83 

displays  the  string  "COLOR". 

Also,  as  noted  earlier,  we  may  need 
to  synchronize  our  display  with  the 
display  frame  rate,  especially  if  we 
wish  to  perform  animation  with 
smooth  movements.  Therefore,  we 
need  a  primitive  that  suspends 
display  processing  until  the  end  of  a 
frame  or  until  after  a  certain  number 


of  frames.  Mnemonically,  our  wait 
primitive  can  be  represented  as: 

WAITN 
where: 

N  =  number  of  frames  to  wait 

For  example,  the  primitive: 

WAIT  7 

suspends  processing  for  seven  frames. 
Since  we  have  assumed  the  ex- 
istence of  a  color-look-up  table  to 
facilitate  pseudocoloring  and 
contrast-stretching,  we  must  provide 


^  D-Cat: 

.  \)Sf  Everything 
^UlLU^yotCii  ever  need 
in  a  basic,  direct  modem. 


There's  only  one  originate /answer 
modem  that  gives  you  the  performance 
and  reliability  of  a  direct  connect 
modem  with  the  portability  and  price 
of  an  acoustic.  Novation's  new  D-Cat. 

D-Cat  is  the  only  direct  modem 
that's  FCC  approved  for  handset  jack 
connection  with  any  modular  phone. 
Use  it  at  home  or  at  work  on  a  50-pin, 
six  line  business  phone.  Talk  to 
D-Cats,  Cats,  or  any  other  Bell  103 
compatible  modem. 

D-Cat  also  has  all  the  features  you 
want:  full  duplex  capability,  voice/data 


monitor,  up  to  20  dB  performance 
improvement  over  acoustic,  hold 
function,  privacy  button,  self-test, 
and  a  remarkable  price.  Only  $199. 

But  best  of  all,  it's  from  Novation. 
The  recognized  world  leader  in 
personal  communications. 

D-Cat  by 

Novation 

Call  for  details: 

(800)  423-5410 

In  California  (213)  996-5060 


Available  at  Avnet  Electronics,  Hamilton  Electro,  Hamilton  Avnet,  Kierulff  Electronics,  Byte  Shops, 
Computerland,  and  your  local  computer  store. 
Novation,  Inc.,  18664  Oxnard  Street,  Tarzana,  California  91356 


DETACHABLE  INSERT 


some  method  of  controlling  such  a 
structure.  There  are  two  common 
methods  for  the  organization  of  such 
tables.  One  method  allows  for  the 
definition  of  a  color  by  the  propor- 
tions of  red,  green,  and  blue  elements 
(the  colors  which  physically  make  up 
a  pixel).  This  method  is  easily  per- 
formed in  hardware,  but  it  is  not 
readily  adaptable  to  common  English 
color  descriptions  (such  as  hot  pink 
or  sea  green).  A  preferred  method, 
which  we  shall  use,  defines  a  color  by 
its  hue,  intensity,  and  saturation. 
This  classification  refers  to,  respec- 
tively, the  gradation  of  color  (red, 
pink,  purple),  the  brightness  of  the 
color,  and  the  purity,  or  amount  of 
black,  in  the  color  (dark  red,  fire- 
engine  red). 

We  abstract  the  existence  of  a 
three-part  table  (which  will  actually 
be  implemented  in  hardware)  that  is 
used  as  a  color-look-up  table.  Since 
this  table  is  user-alterable,  we  will 
refer  to  its  parts  as  color  memories. 
(They  would  usually  be  implemented 
as  programmable-memory  elements.) 
In  order  to  generalize  this  primitive, 
we  need  to  be  able  to  update  the  en- 
tire table,  one  entire  portion  of  the 
table  (hue,  intensity,  or  saturation), 
or  all  the  parameters  for  a  given  color 
code.  This  table  will  allow  selection 
of  2"  colors  out  of  a  2'+**5  color  set 
where  n  is  the  pixel  size  in  bits  and  i, 
h,  and  s  are,  respectively,  the  word 
size  of  the  intensity,  hue,  and  satura- 
tion color  memory.  For  example,  if  n 
=  i  =  h  =  s  =  4,  we  can  select  one 
of  sixteen  colors  out  of  a  212  color  set. 
Mnemonically,  our  load-color- 
memory  primitive  can  be  represented 
as: 


LCRAM  R,M,(A,)C, 


where: 


R  =  reference  (intensity,  Hue,  or 

Saturation  color  memory,  or  All) 

M=  mode  (Single  address  or  All 

addresses  in  table) 

A  =  address  (optional) 

C    =    color   data   for   the   color 

memory 

For  example,  the  primitive: 

LCRAM  A,S,2,5,7,2 


DETACHABLE  INSERT 


80       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  48  on  inquiry  card. 


mmmmum 


mammmmmm 


ENGINEERING  SELECTION  GUIDE  •FALL  1990 


■ 


%mw 


HpNc 

■  \?1 

T 

t  i( 

THE  8"  9  TO  45  M  BYTES 
FIXED  RIGID  DISK  DRIVE 

FROM 


m 


•~>*jS~ 


-)i  r  i  Ji  it  i  i  *  *  i   »  *   '  '  » 


PRIORITY  rONEH  ELECTRONICS , 


FOR  THE  INSIDE  TRACK,  SEE  PAGE  8 


80  —  CV  II         BYTE  November  1980 


r 

PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 

1 

We  thank  Robert  Tinney  for  accurately  depicting,  on  our  cover,  PRIORITY  ONE 

ELECTRONICS'  support  for  the  electronic  industry,  worldwide  and  beyond.  We  will  continue 

to  service  you  with  the  finest  state  of  the  art  components.  PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS  is 

proud  to  present  our 

Fall,  1980  Engineering  Selection  Guide. 

Please  detach  the  selection 

guide  from 

your  magazine  and  take  a  few  moments  to  look 

over  the  wide  variety  of  fine 

products  that  PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS  has  assembled  for  you. 

Anacom  General  Corp. 

15 

Fluke 

44,45 

Probes 

34.38.39,46 

Antronics 

52 

Frequency  Counters 

39,  47,  48 

Prototyping  Supplies 

12,24-33.36-38 

AP  Products 

17,  35-37 

Function  Generators 

39,48 

Pulse  Generators 

38,  39 

Apparat 

16 

Global  Specialties  Corp. 

38,  39 

QT  Computer  Systems 

2,3,  5,12,13 

Apple  Memory  Expansion 

16,17,19 

Godbout 

2-4,12,13 

RAM  ICs 

16,  19 

Apple  Peripherals 

17 

GSC 

52,  53 

Resistors 

22 

B.  &  K.  Precision 

46,  48 

Hard  Disks 

7-9 

Ribbon  Cable 

24 

Bishop  Graphics 

31-33 

Hard  Holes 

18 

Robinson  Nugent 

25 

Books 

17,  54 

Hazeltine 

14 

RS232  Connectors  &  Cable 

24 

Breadboards 

27-29,  32, 

33                       Head  Cleaning  Kits 

18 

RS232  Interfaces 

3,  17 

Breadboards,  Solderless 

37,  38 

Heders 

16,24,25,35,36 

S100  Products 

2-13,16,28,32,33 

Bug  Box  System 

40 

Heat  Guns 

50 

Sams  Books 

16,  54 

C-Probe 

41 

Heat  Shrinkale  Tubing 

51 

Sanyo 

14 

Cables 

15,24,34 

Hlckok 

45.  CV  III 

Semiconductors 

19-22 

California  Computer  Systems  2-4,  6, 12, 

13,16,17,  CV-IV  Hitachi 

41-43 

Serial  Interfaces 

3,  17 

Caltronics 

21,24,34 

HUH?  TRS-80  Products 

16 

Shugart 

13 

Capacitance  Meters 

41,47,48 

Hunter  Tools 

49 

Slit  N'  Wrap 

30 

Capacitators 

23 

I/O  Boards 

2,3 

Sockets 

24-26,  36 

Card  Cages 

13,  28,  30 

ICs 

19-21 

Software 

6,  7,  9, 16 

Card  Extenders 

4,  12,28 

IC  Storage 

40 

Soldering  Equipment 

50.  51 

CAT  Modem 

15 

IDC  Connectors  &  Cables 

24,35 

Static  RAM  Boards 

4.  5 

Centronics 

15 

International  Instrumentation, 

Inc.  40,  41 

Static  RAM  ICs 

19 

Clock/Calendar  Boards 

2,  17 

ISOBAR 

52 

Super  Ram 

5 

CMOS  ICs 

21 

ISOTIP 

51 

Support  Chips 

19 

Coleflex 

51 

Junction  Boxes 

52 

Sullens 

26 

CompuPro 

2-4,12,13 

Just  Wrap 

27 

Surgeonics 

52 

Connectors 

24-26,  34, 

35                      Ledu  Lamps 

52 

Switchboard 

3 

Continental  Specialties 

38,39 

Linear  ICs 

20 

TEI 

13 

CPU  Boards 

2 

Livermore  Data  Systems 

15 

Temperature  Probes 

45 

CPU  Chips 

19 

Logic  Probes  &  Analyzers 

27,  38,  39 

Terminals  CRT 

14 

CP/M 

6 

LS  ICs 

20 

Terminals  Wiring 

27.  30 

Crystals 

23 

3M  Scotch 

18 

Terminator  Boards 

12 

"D"  Connectors 

24 

Mainframes 

13,28.30 

Test  Clips 

34,  35 

D-Cat 

15 

Magnifier  Lamps 

52 

Test  Equipment 

38,  39,  41-48.  CV-III 

Digital  Pulser 

38,  39 

Media  Accessories 

18 

Texas  Instruments 

25,  26 

Diodes 

22 

Memory  Boards 

2,4,  5 

Textool 

25 

DIP  Jumpers 

36 

Memory  Chips 

16,  19 

Thinker  Toys 

3,5,6,7,12.13 

DIP  Plugs 

25 

Meters 

39,  40,  45,  47,  48,  CV-III    Tools 

12,25,27.30,34,35,49-52 

DIP  Switches 

19 

Micropolis 

CV-II  .  8-11.16 

Transformers 

21 

Discretes 

22,23 

Microprocessor  ICs 

19 

Transistors 

22 

Discus 

6,7 

Modems 

15 

TRS-80  Memory  Expansion 

16.  19 

Disk  Cabinets 

13 

Monitors 

14 

TRS-80  Peripherals 

16 

Disk  Drives 

6-11,13,16 

Morrow  Designs 

3,5,6,7,12,13 

TTLICs 

20 

Disk  Jockey 

6 

Motherboards 

12,  28 

UARTs 

19 

Diskette  Storage  &  Care 

18 

Motorola 

19-21 

Ungar 

50 

Diskettes 

18 

Mullen 

12 

Vector  Electronic  Co. 

4,12,  28-30 

Drafting  Aids 

31-33 

NEWDOS80 

16 

Verbatim 

18 

Dynamic  RAM  Boards 

2,  5 

Non-Linnear  Systems 

46,47 

Video  Boards 

2 

Dynamic  RAMs 

19 

Novation 

15 

Video  Displays 

14 

Econorams 

2,4,5 

Oscilloscopes 

41-43,  46 

Vista  Computer  Co. 

16 

Edsyn 

51 

Opto-lsolators 

19 

Winchester 

24 

Enclosures 

13.28,30 

Page  Precut  Wire 

25 

Winchester  Technology 

7,  8,  9 

EPROM  Boards 

4 

Pana  Vise 

49 

Wire 

25 

EPROMs 

19 

Panel  Meters 

47 

Wire  Wrap  Boards 

27,  28.  29,  32 

Expandable  1'™ 

5 

Photo  Boards 

28 

Wire  Wrap  Headers 

24,  36 

Expandable+ 

5 

Plugboards 

27-29,  32,  33 

Wire  Wrap  Sockets 

25 

E-Z-Bus 

32,33 

Power  Strips 

52 

Wire  Wrap  Tools 

27,  29 

E-Z-Circuit 

31 

Power  Supplies 

53 

Z80  Microprocessor ICs 

19 

E-Z-Hook 

34 

Printers 

15 

ZIP  DIP  Sockets 

25 

.                       ©  1980  by  PRIORITY  1  ELECTRONICS.  All  rights  reserved,  no  part  shall  be  reproduced  without  written  permission  from  PRIORITY  1  ELECTRONICS. 

ORDER  TOLL  FREE  (800)  423-5633 


BYTE  November  1980 


80  —  1 


ruomiiiaiiy-dijuiebseu  metnury 

■    ennuis  wiui  wysiai  cuniroueo  rrequencies  |±U.1%) 

Specifications  and  prices  subject  to  change  without  notice. 

•  Uses  FF  Detect  to  disable  output  when  empty  locations 
addressed 

1    QTCI0BB                       Bare  Board 

$  69.00 

LIST  PRICE         OUR  PRICE 

1    QTCI0K                         Kit 

$275.00 

THT-SW8K                                                                         $199.00 

LIST  PRICE         OUR  PRICE 

^JJTCIOA                         A&T 

$375.00 

TIIT-SWBA                                          $259.00               $239.00 

CCS2720                                            $250.00               $239.00, 

WE  ACCEPT  VISA,  and  MASTER-CHARGE  — « 

noin-rmiNHjivira      f  —  W  "sing  (4l16-150ns)  (6MHz)  200ns 


80  —  3 


i  yuwei  un/iBSttt. 


I 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


MEET  THE  ECONORAM  FAMILY... 

ALL  ECONORAMS 

FROM  COMPUKIT  INCLUDE: 

■  Fully  static  memory  used  throughout  to  promote  reliable 
operation  and  facilitate  direct  memory  access.  (DMA) 


P»8)(£ 

Static  S-100  Memory 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


California  Computer  Systems 


CCS2422 

FLOPPY  DISK  CONTROLLER 

WITH  CP/M  VERSION  2.2 

•  Compatible  with  the  IEEE  proposed  S-100  bus 
standards 

•  Controls  any  combination  of  5V4  and  8"  drives  up  to  four 

•  Double-Sided  and  Side  Select  signals  implemented  for 
double-sided  drives 

•  Reads  and  writes  diskettes  conforming  to  the  IBM  3740 
format  standard  for  single-density  diskettes  and  the  IBM 
System  34  format  standard  for  double-density  diskette 

•  Z-80  compatible,  ROM-resident  bootstrap  loader  for 
loading  CP/M  Into  system  memory  from  diskette 

•  ROM-resident  MOSS  2.2  Disk  Monitor 

■  Plug-compatible  with  Shugart  800/850  and  400/450 
drives 

•  Fast  Seek  for  voice-coil  drives  hardware-  or  software- 
enabled 

•  Can  be  assigned  to  one  of  eight  banks  through  bank 
byte/bank  port  system  used  by  Cromemco  and  others 

•  Optional  Auto  Wait  circuitry  for  wait  on  data  or  board 
status  register  when  data  register  is  not  ready  for  data 
transfer 

•  PINT,  NMI,  or  VIZ-V17  can  be  used  to  interrupt  the  CPU 
when  the  2422  is  ready  for  data  transfer  or  a  new 
command 

■  Write  Precompensation  circuitry  for  double-density 
diskettes 

•  Digital  phase  locked  loop  for  read  data  separation 

•  LEDS  to  indicate  ROM,  Bank,  and  Board  Select 

•  Address  Decoding  ROMs  handle  ROM  and  register 
addressing 

•  Optional  Wait  State  for  ROM 

•  Assembled  &  Tested 

List  Price  Our  Price 

CCS2422  $400.00  S375.00 

CALIFORNIA  COMPUTER 
SYSTEMS  SOFTWARE 

CCS-2601  CP/M  Version  2.2  Microcomputer 

Control  Program   S150.00 

CCS-2610  MAC-CP/M  Macro  Assembler   $90.00 

CCS-2620  SID-CP/M  Symbolic  Instruction 

Debugger  $75.00 

CCS-2630  TEX-CP/M  Text  Formatter $75.00 

CCS-2640  DESPOOL— CP/M  Background 

Print  Utility $50.00 

All  software  comes  with  manuals  &  8"  diskette 

CP/M,  MAC,  SID,  TEX,  and  DESPOOL  are  registered- 
trademarks  of  Digital  Research. 

Thinker  Toys- 


DISK  JOCKEY  I 
FLOPPY  DISK  CONTROLLER 


iifiuamm 


DISCUS  1 

FULL-SIZE,  SINGLE-DENSITY 

DISK  MEMORY  SYSTEM 

The  DISCUS  I  full-size,  single-density  disk  memory  sys- 
tem offers  the  opportunity  to  move  your  S-100  system  into 
the  large  storage  capability  and  high  speed  access  of  an 
8"  drive. 

DISCUS  I  gives  you  250,000  bytes  per  diskette  with  five 
times  the  access  speed  of  a  mini-floppy.  Yet,  the  cost  is 
only  slightly  higher. 

DISCUS  !  full-size,  single-density  disk  system  is  com- 
plete in  every  way— complete  with  all  hardware,  all  soft- 
ware and  completely  assembled  and  tested. 

Specifications: 

Data  Specifications  and  Formats 

■  250,000  byte  capacity  per  standard  8"  floppy  diskette 

•  Soft-sectored  IBM-compatible  format:  77  tracks/26 
sectors  per  track/128  bytes  per  sector 

•  Includes  Disk/ ATE™  disk  operating  system  with  integral 
monitor,  assembler  and  text  editor  &  BASIC-V  advanced 
virtual  disk  BASIC  capable  of  addressing  up  to  1 
megabyte 

•  Software  customized  for  SOL  and  Exidy  available 

•  Patches  for  CP/M*  included 

•  Optional  CP/M'  Microsoft  BASIC,  and  FORTRAN 
available. 

List  Price    Our  Price 

THT-D1S  Single  Drive $995.00       $950.00 

THT-D1D  Dual  Drive $1790.00    $1595.00 


Specifications 

•  S-100  compatible 


DISK  JOCKEY  2D 
FLOPPY  DISK  CONTROLLER 

Specifications: 

•  Plug  compatible  with  Shugart,  Remex  and  Siemens 
single-  or  double-sided  drives 

•  Double/stngle-density  capability  utilizing  MFM  and  FM 
data  formats 

•  Western  Digital  1791  LSI  floppy  disk  controller  chip 

•  Uses  2K  of  S-100  address  space: 

—  1K  PROM  with  built-in  disk  drive  and  I/O  utility 
subroutines  incorporating  memory  mapped  I/O 

—  1K  2114-3L  300  ns  access  time  RAM  for  disk  data 
buffering  and  general  purpose  use 

•  Starting  address  of  memory  space  is  340:000  (E000 
hex)  for  compatibility  with  other  popular  ROM  based 
systems 

•  Phase-locked  data  separator  and  crystal  controlled  disk 
data  write  precompensation  capability  to  insure  the 
highest  standards  of  data  integrity  in  double  density 
mode 

•  Compatible  with  all  2  MHz  and  4  MHz  systems  which 
conform  with  the  proposed  IEEE  standards  for  the  S-100 
bus 

•  1602  UART  with  crystal-controlled  baud-rate  generator 

•  Sixteen  switch  selectable  baud  rates  from  50  to  19,200 
bits/second 

•  TTY  current  loop  and  industry  standard  RS232C  serial 
interface 

•  Power-on  jump  circuitry  for  automatic  bootstrap  loading 
from  the  disk  drive 

•  Power  supply  requirements:  +8v@  1200  ma;  +16v@ 
150ma;-16v@70ma 

•  ROM  utility  subroutines: 

Bootstrap  load  Seek 

Terminal  input  Set  sector 


Thinker 
Tbys- 


DISCUS/2D™ 
DOUBLE  DENSITY  DISK  SYSTEM 

Why  not  go  all  the  way  to  the  professional/industrial  stan- 
dard of  600K  byte/side  disk  memory  with  your  S-100 
system?  The  new  DISCUS/2D™  full-size,  double-density 
floppy  disk  system  is  actually  less  expensive  than  many 
mini-floppy  systems. 

And  Thinker  Toys™  hasn't  just  made  full-size,  double- 
density  disk  memory  affordable ..  .we've  made  it  more 
functional. 

Thinker  Toys™  has  developed  BASIC-V™  a  virtual  disk 
BASIC  that  lets  you  address  all  600K  bytes  {expandable  to 
1  megabyte)  as  if  were  main  memory.  The  data  format  is 
soft-sectored  and  compatible  with  IBM's  new  System  34. 
And  DISCUS/2D,M  accepts  both  single-density  and  dou- 
ble-density disks  for  complete  flexibility  in  data  storage. 

And  DISCUS/2D™  is  even  more  attractive  because  it's 
priced  and  delivered  as  a  truly  complete  system.  It's  com- 
plete with  all  hardware.  It's  complete  with  all  necessary 
software.  And  it's  completely  assembled,  tested  and 
warranted. 

Specifications: 

•CP/M  V2. 2  standard 

■  Plug  compatible  with  Shugart,  Remex  and  Siemens 
single-  or  double-sided  drives 

•  Double/single-density  capability  utilizing  MFM  and  FM 
data  formats 

•  Western  Digital  1791  LSI  floppy  disk  controller  chip 

•  Uses  2K  of  S-100  address  space: 

—  1K  PROM  with  built-in  disk  drive  and  I/O  utility 
subroutines  incorporating  memory  mapped  I/O 

—  1K  2114-3L  300  ns  access  time  RAM  for  disk  data 
offering  and  general  purpose  use 

Starting  address  of  memory  space  is  340:000  (E000 

hex)  for  compatibility  with  other  popular  ROM  based 

systems 

Phase-locked  data  separator  and  crystal  controlled 

disk  data  write  precompensation  capability  to  insure  the 

highest  standards  of  data  integrity  in  double  density 

mode. 

Compatible  with  all  2  MHz  and  4  MHz  systems  which 

conform  with  the  proposed  IEEE  standard  for  the 

S-100  bus 

1602  UART  with  crystal-controlled  baud-rate  generator 

Sixteen  switch  selectable  baud  rates  from  50  to  19,200 

bits/second 

TTY  current  loop  and  industry  standard  RS232C  serial 

interface 

Power-on  jump  circuitry  for  automatic  bootstrap  loading 

from  the  disk  drive 

Power  supply  requirements:  +  8V@  1200  ma;  +  16V@ 

150  ma;  -16V@70ma. 

ROM  utility  subroutines: 

Bootstrap  load  Seek 

Terminal  input  Set  sector 

Terminal  output  Set  DMA  address 

Home  Disk  read 


Disk  write 
Select  drive 
Terminal  panic  detect 
Terminal  status 

Discus  2D 
Double  density 
Single  sided 


THT-D2DS  Single  Drive 
THT-D2DD  Double  Drive 


DMA  status 
Disk  status 
Disk  error 

Switch  density 

Discus  2  +  2 
Double  density 
Double  sided 


List  Price  Our  Price 
.  .$1199.00  $1098.00 
.  .$1994.00     $1798.00 


THT-D22S  Single  Drive.  . 
THT-D22D  Double  Drive 


List  Price  Our  Price 
.$1545.00  $1395.00 
.$2740.00     $2450.00 


rrtWP    PAFTUIA  I 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


DRIVE  A  HARD  BARGAIN! 


THINKER  TOYST 


9 


GENERAL  SYSTEM  INFORMATION 

The  DISCUS  M26  is  supplied  with  the  CP/M  2  Operating 
System  prerecorded  on  the  disk.  Both  low  level  drivers  and 
bootstrap  software  are  furnished  in  the  documentation  and 
on  the  disk  itself.  The  drivers  are  assembled  to  run  at  F400 
hex  and  assume  that  the  controller  has  I/O  addresses  50, 
51.  52  and  53  hex.  For  recovery  from  a  catastrophic  soft- 
ware crash,  Morrow  Designs  can  supply  a  floppy  diskette 
which  reformats  the  disk  and  reinstalls  copies  of  the  oper- 
ating system. 

The  controller  can  run  up  to  four  hard  disks  for  a  total  of 
104  megabytes  of  on-line  storage.  It  is  implemented  in 
forty-seven  MSI  and  SSI  TTL  integrated  circuits.  A  DIP 
switch  is  provided  for  setting  the  starting  I/O  address  of  the 
controller.  The  four  addresses  are: 
0-Control  and  data  status 
1-Controller  command  register 
2-Drive  select  and  control  register 
3-Data  In  and  Out 

The  lowest  address  set  into  the  switch  must  be  divisible 
by  four.  Through  the  "Drive  select  and  control  register,"  the 
controller  can  select  any  of  the  four  drives  and  up  to 
sixteen  heads  within  a  drive.  Also  accessible  through  this 
register  are  the  step  and  direction  command  lines  which 
are  used  to  move  the  eight  read/write  heads  from  one  track 
to  another. 

Data  transfers  are  handled  through  an  on-board  finite 
state  machine  fashioned  out  of  sfindard  TTL  and  a  medi- 
um-sized PROM  (64  x  8).  The  commands  are: 

write  a  sector  header 

read  a  sector  header 

read  a  sector  of  data 

write  a  sector  of  data 

reset  the  internal  data  buffer  pointer  to  the  beginning 
of  the  data  buffer 

reset  the  internal  data  buffer  pointer  Jo  the  beginning 
of  the  sector  header  buffer 


26  MEGABYTES 


Suddenly,  S-100  microcomputer  systems  can 
easily  handle  100  million  bytes.  Because  Morrow 
Designs'"  now  offers  the  first  26  megabyte  hard 
disk  memory  for  S-100  systems-the  DISCUS 
M26m  Hard  Disk  System. 

It  has  26  megabytes  of  useable  memory  (29 
megabytes  unformatted).  And  it's  expandable  to 
104  megabytes. 

The  DISCUS  M26""  system  is  delivered  com- 
plete-a  26  megabyte  hard  disk  drive,  controller, 
cables  and  operating  system-for  just  $4995.  Up 
to  three  additional  drives  can  be  added,  $4495 
apiece. 

The  DISCUS  M26m  system  features  the  Shugart 
SA400B  Winchester-type  sealed  media  hard  disk 
drive,  in  a  handsome  metal  cabinet  with  fan  and 
power  supply. 

The  single-board  S-100  controller  incorporates 
intelligence  to  supervise  all  data  transfers,  com- 
municating with  the  CPU  via  three  I/O  ports  (com- 
mand, status,  and  data).  The  controller  has  the 
ability  to  generate  interrupts  at  the  completion  of 
each  command  to  increase  system  throughput. 
There  is  a  512  byte  sector  buffer  on-board.  And 
each  sector  can  be  individually  write-protected 
for  data  base  security. 

The  operating  system  furnished  with  DISCUS 
M26""  systems  is  the  widely  accepted  CP/M*  2.0 


The  CPU  transfers  data  to  the  controller  by  first  resetting 
the  internal  data  buffer  pointer  to  the  beginning  of  either  of 
the  two  data  areas.  Next,  it  fetches  data  from  the  appropri- 
ate location  in  memory  and  performs  successive  outputs  to 
the  data  port  of  the  controller.  Each  reference  to  the  data 
port  automatically  increments  the  pointer  to  the  buffer. 

Transferring  data  from  the  controller  is  accomplished  in 
a  similar  fashion.  The  pointer  is  positioned  and  then  the 
CPU  does  successive  inputs  and  finally  stores  the  data  in 
an  appropriate  place  in  memory.  The  data  buffer  is  stable 
between  operations  and  can  be  referred  to  again.  The 
buffer  must  NOT  be  touched  during  disk  data  transfer 
operations. 

Provision  is  made  for  the  interconnection  of  controller 
interrupts  to  any  of  the  S-100  Bus  vectored  or  unvectored 
interrupts. 

SPECIFICATIONS 

Enclosure 

Cabinet  dimensions:  67/s"  high,  16Vie"  wide,  30V2"  long. 
Cabinet  is  both  rack  mountable  or  useable  as  table  top 
model.  (Available  Fall  1980:  rack  slides  and  desk  height 
rack.)  Color:  beige. 

Power  Supply  (internal  to  cabinet) 

+  24  v@3.0amps 
+  5  v@  3.0  amps 
-14  v  @  1.5  amps 

Drive  Power  Requirements 

115  v  AC  @  3.0  amps,  or 
230  v  AC  @  1.5  amps 

Capacity  (formatted):  26,476,544  bytes 

Seek  time  (track  to  track):  1ms:  head  settle  time:  20  ms 

202  cylinders 

8  tracks  per  cylinder 

32  sectors  per  track 

512  bytes  per  sector 


LIST  PRICE 
$4995.00 
OUR  PRICE 

$4495.00 


CP/M®  SOFTWARE  OPTIONS 

For  anyone  currently  running  CP/M  2,  we  will  provide  a 
program  that  automatically  integrates  the  DISCUS  M26 
into  the  operating  system.  This  program  will  be  provided 
on  an  IBM  standard  diskette,  and  it  will  leave  existing 
terminal  and  disk  I/O  unchanged.  Thus  the  M26  can  be 
readily  added  to  most  S-100  systems. 

For  systems  without  CP/M  2,  we  offer  CP/M  in  several 
configurations.  The  standard  release  provides  disk  t/O  for 
the  DISCUS  M26  and  the  Disk  Jockey,  and  terminal  I/O  for 
the  Disk  Jockey  or  Switchboard  serial  ports.  Optionally,  we 
provide  terminal  I/O  for  the  SOL  keyboard  and  monitor  or 
for  the  EXIDY  keyboard  and  monitor.  Terminal  I/O  can  also 
be  left  blank  (jump-to-self)  to  allow  custom  patching. 

Finally,  for  CROMEMCO  users,  we  plan  to  offer  a  CP/M 
2  expanded  to  full  CDOS  compatibility  and  interfaced  to 
the  M26  and  to  standard  CROMEMCO  floppys.  This  is  sold 
and  serviced  by  MICAH,  1250  Pine  St.,  #102,  Walnut 
Creek,  CA  94596,  (415)  933-2783.  It  will  also  be  available 
directly  from  Morrow  Designs. 

List  Price     Our  Price 

THT-M26S  Subsystem $4995  00     $4495.00 

THT-M26A  Add-on  hard  disk  drive  $4995.00  $3995.00 
THT-M26HDC  Hard  disk  controller $  695.00 


Shipping  Weight:  THT-M26S&A 
THT-M26HDC 


50  lbs. 
3  lbs. 


PLEASE  ORDER  BY  PART  NUMBER 


BYTE  November  1980  80  —  7 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


THE  MICROPflLIS  MICRODISK™ 

WE  DIDN'T  JUST  GIVE  IT  BETTER 

STORAGE  CAPACITY. 

WE  GAVE  IT  BETTER  EVERYTHING. 


THE  HEART  OF 

EVERY  MICRODISK™ 

SUBSYSTEM 


The  MicroDisk  rotary  voice  coil  positioner,  a  balanced 
swing  arm  mechanism  supported  on  two  pre-loaded  bearings. 


MICROPOLIS 

MicroDisk  s:  clean  area,  with  lifetime  filters, 
showing  direction  of  general  airflow  in  the  system. 


Functional  Specifications 

Encoding  Method 
Platters 
Data  Surfaces 
Data  Heads 
Available  Tracks 


EPM 
1.  2or  3 
1.  3or  5 

1,  3or  5 
580 


The  MicroDisk's  drive  mechanics  consist  of  a  die  cast  deck  whose 
lower  half  is  devoted  to  the  recording  heads,  platters,  and  voice  coil 
motor  components.  This  lower  half  is  the  closed  circuit  clean  area, 
and  air  is  circulated  through  it  by  disk  rotation  induced  flow.  The  flow 
is  directed  through  a  0.3  micron  absolute  filter.  So  there's  never  any 
reason  to  expose  the  MicroDisk's  clean  area  to  unsterile  air, 

Most  other  manufacturers  violate  the  rules  for  sealed  "clean" 
areas  in  their  drives.  By  placing  active  components  inside  the  clean 
area  — components  that  would  require  unsealing  the  area  to  replace 
or  repair  faulty  parts. 

But  we  decided  it  didn't  make  any  sense  to  offer  a  clean  area  that 
wouldn't  stay  clean. 

So  there  are  no  active  electronic  parts  in  the  MicroDisk's  clean 
area.  The  electrical  connection  between  this  area's  components  and 
the  electronics  package  is  made  via  a  PCB  which  seals  the  clean  area 
from  the  rest  of  the  casting.  The  single  chip  preamps  are  located  in 
sockets  accessible  without  violating  the  integrity  of  the  clean  area. 

So  you  can  depend  on  it  not  only  to  be  clean,  you  can  depend  on  it 
to  work. 

The  Quartz-locked  direct-drive  motor.  Another  lirst  from  Micropolls. 

In  order  to  increase  reliability  and  capacity  of  the  MicroDisk's 
drive  system,  we  added  an  element  that  no  one  else  in  the  industry 
has:  Quartz  crystal  speed  control. 

Rotational  drive  for  the  MicroDisk  is  provided  by  a  Quartz-locked, 
direct-drive.  brushlessD.C.  Micro-Motor'"  only  %"  high.  This  innova- 
tive combination  allows  a  very  low  profile,  and  lets  three  platters 
reside  in  an  envelope  only  4.62"  high. 

It  also  makes  the  design  of  the  Micropolis  (or  your)  controller  very 
simple,  and  lets  us  put  a  full  5%  more  data  on  the  drive  itself  by 
holding  the  rotation  to  an  accuracy  of  0.5%. 

And  the  simplicity  of  the  Quartz-locked  MicroMotor  gives  the  drive 
something  else;  a  very  long  life. 

The  MicroDisk  lets  you  put  the  brakes  on. 

We've  included  something  on  the  MicroDisk  that  some  other  drive 
manufacturers  curiously  omit  — a  braking  mechanism.  They  claim 
that  a  brake  is  unnecessary  and  superfluous.  And  no  threat  to  your 
disk. 

They're  wrong. 

Some  manufacturers  use  the  head  to  stop  the  disk  from  rotating 
when  power  is  cut.  This  means  that  the  head  stows  the  disk  by 
friction,  letting  the  disk  rotate  many  times  before  it  stops. 

That's  why  we  gave  the  MicroDisk  a  brake.  It  extends  the  life  of  the 
disk  by  not  allowing  the  head  to  act  as  the  braking  mechanism. 
That's  longer  disk  life  for  you,  and  a  higher  MTBF  in  the  critical  clean 
area. 

Quite  frankly,  it  makes  us  wonder  why  people  do  it  any  other  way 


The  MicroDisk  rotary  voice  coll  positioner.  A  truly  balanced  system. 


In  keeping  with  the  Micropolis  policy  of  not  skimping  on  quality, 
we  gave  the  MicroDisk  a  rotary  voice  coil  positioner.  It's  a  balanced 
swing  arm  mechanism  supported  on  two  pre-loaded  bearings. 

The  voice  coil  is  attached  to  the  system  on  the  opposite  side  of  the 
bearings  from  the  heads,  and  the  whole  mechanism  is  statically 
balanced. 


The  innovative  Quartz-locked,  direct-drive,  brushless  DC. 
Micro-Motor,  shown  with  braking  mechanism. 


Environmental 

Ambient  Temp.  Range     50-104°F  (10-40°C) 
Relative  Humidity  10-80%  non  condensing 

Power  Requirements 
110V  60Hz.  3.5A  (max.) 
220V  50Hz.  1.5A(max.) 


Specifications  subject  to  change  without  notice. 


The  Micropolis  MicroDisk  8-inch  drive  |left|.  and 
Industry  standard  8-inch  floppy  disk  drive,  shown  side  by  side. 


Other  manufacturers  try  and  cut  costs  by  using  either  a  stepper 
motor  or  a  linear  voice  coil.  There's  only  one  drawback  to  both  of 
them  — they  can  never  be  balanced. 

This  means  that  their  drives  are  vulnerable  to  unexpected  jolts, 
bumps,  and  shocks  during  operation.  With  an  unbalanced  positioner, 
a  random  elbow  or  push  to  the  drive  unit  will  cause  small  movements 
of  the  head  relative  to  the  disk. 

Imagine  your  stereo  turntable.  What  happens  when  someone 
nudges  it  while  a  record  is  playing7  The  unbalanced  pick-up  arm 
skips  over  your  record.  In  a  disk  system  even  very  small  movements 
are  serious  during  a  write  operation. 

There's  yet  another  disadvantage  to  using  a  stepper  motor  instead 
of  a  rotary  voice  coil.  It's  slower.  For  multi-user  system  applications 
it's  unacceptably  slow.  And.  during  the  "power-down1'  sequence,  or 
in  case  ot  power  failure,  it  can't  move  the  head  to  a  neutral  area.  So 
the  head  lands  in  your  data  area  on  the  disk,  and  may  destroy  the 
data.  Forever,  The  MicroDisk's  rotary  voice  coil,  however,  always 
lands  the  head  in  a  neutral  area.  So  data  is  never  threatened. 

The  MicroDisk  has  a  Dedicated  Servo  Surface.  This  is  the  bottom 
surface  of  the  bottom  disk,  and  is  not  used  for  data.  Rather,  it's  used 
for  positioner  information  that  allows  the  heads  to  know  where  they 
are.  The  positioner  contains  feedback  that  tells  the  heads  continually 
when  they're  on  track,  so  they  won't  ever  write  off  track  even  in  a 
severe  vibration  environment.  With  a  stepper  motor,  the  head  never 
knows  where  it  is  — it's  like  driving  in  the  dark. 

But  with  the  MicroDisk's  rotary  voice  coil,  you  know  just  where 
you  are. 

Think  ot  it  as  the  end  of  flying  blind. 


Capacity 
Model  Nos. 
Unformatted  Capacity 
M  Bytes  Per  Drive 
Formatted  Capacity 
M  Bytes  Per  Drive 

Mechanical  Dimensions 
Height 

Width 
Depth 
Weight 

Access  Time 

Track  to  Track 
Average  (1/3  stroke) 
Settling 

Average  Latency 
Transfer  Rate 


1262-1 
1252-1 


26.7 


1263-1 
1253-1 


44.5 


7.00"  (177.80  mm) 
19.00"  (482,60  mm) 
18.40"  (467.30  mm) 
45  lbs.  (20.50  Kg) 

4  milliseconds 
34  milliseconds 
8  milliseconds 
8.33  milliseconds 
7.375  M  Bits  Sec. 


The  Micropolis  Intelligent  Controller,  whose  board  fits 
inside  the  drive,  providing  optional  error  correction. 


80  —  8 


BYTE  November  1980 


VISIT  OUR  RETAIL  STORE 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


THE  MICROPHLIS  MICRflDISK™ 
8"  RIGID  DISK  SUBSYSTEM  WITH  OSM. 
MULTI-USER,  MULTI-TASKING  AND  INCREASED 
CAPACITY  FOR  YOUR  S-100  MICRO-COMPUTER. 

The  Micropolis  Microdisk  is  an  8" 
Winchester  disk  storage  subsystem  de- 
signed tor  an  S-100  Bus  minicomputer  using 
an  8080,  8085,  or  Z-80  microprocessor  with 
a  clock  frequency  of  2-4  MHz.  The  sub- 
system, including  the  OSM  software  pack- 
age, provides  you  with  a  true  multi-user, 
multi-tasking  system. 

The  Microdisk  subsystem  consists  of  the 
OSM  multi-user  multi-tasking,  multi-access 
software  package,  full  documentation.  In- 
telligent Disk  Adapter  board,  interface  ca- 
ble, and  from  one  to  eight  Microdisk  storage 
modules,  depending  on  your  needs. 

The  Microdisk  subsystem  offers  upward 
expansion  of  existing  program  and  data 
files  previously  created  for  Micropolis,  Mac- 
rofloppy  and  Metafloppy  subsystems. 

The  Microdisk  delivers  high  capacity,  file 
sizes  up  to  65,000  records  in  length,  fast 
access,  and  excellent  data  reliability. 


fluff  ^ 


SttOfn 

Configurator    . 

I 

1 

-■ 

|    pctin :  i 

t :„  _J 

j    - 

<m ... 

| 

I    fLom 

J 

I                        1 
i   WOWOSK   I 

m 

I 
1       I 

OCT 

I             j 

j    ;:    Cm          I 

| 

| 
i 

m    .  j 

| 

I,--:  <W*: 

L ■ ... 

j 

i 

Micropolis  OSM.  Another  first  lor  Microdisk. 

Micropolis  OSM  is  a  set  of  operating  system  modules  which 
requires  a  Microdisk  subsystem  as  the  primary  file  device.  It  relies  on 
the  Intelligent  Disk  Adapter  in  the  subsystem  to  perform  the  File 
Management  for  the  Microdisk.  I/O  interface  cards  with  appropriate 
interrupt  capability  are  necessary  to  support  multiple  terminals. 
Bank  switchable  memory  may  be  used  in  the  host  computer  to 
expand  memory  capacity,  although  it  is  not  required. 

OSM  uses  techniques  of  processor  control.  I/O  handling,  memory. 
task  and  resource  management  to  create  a  true  multi-user  environ- 
ment. Using  the  OSM  Executive,  users  at  several  terminals  can 
invoke  and  interact  with  different  application  programs  written  in 
assembly  language  or  BASIC.  The  system  provides  an  assembler,  a 
source  text  editor,  and  a  Disk  Extended  BASIC  Interpreter  to  support 
the  development,  execution,  and  maintenance  of  application  pro- 
grams. General  system  management  is  provided  by  Filecopy.  Disk 
Archiving,  and  other  utilities. 

The  main  OSM  module  is  loaded  into  the  host  computer  memory  by 
the  Microdisk  bootstrap  process,  and  is  permanently  resident  during 
system  operation.  The  bootstrap  process  also  loads  the  Microdisk 
File  Management  programs  into  the  Intelligent  Disk  Adapter. 
Included  in  the  resident  module  are  programs  for  Interrupt  Servicing, 
Processor  Conrol,  Physical  Device  Drivers.  Logical  Device  Handlers, 
Memory  Management,  Task  Management,  the  system  Supervisor, 
the  OSM  Executive,  and  the  DEBUG  Executive. 


Nonresident  OSM  Modules. 

Some  of  the  OSM  modules  are  separate  programs  which  are 
loaded  from  the  disk  when  required,  and  run  under  the  controls  and 
management  of  the  main  OSM  resident  module.  These  include  an 
8080/8085  assembler,  a  source  text  editor,  a  FILECOPY  utility,  a  Disk 
Archiving  utility,  and  the  Micropolis  Disk  Extended  BASIC 
Interpreter, 


OSM  Disk  Archiving  Utility. 

The  Disk  Archiving  program  is  an  optimized  utility  that  can  be  usei 
to  back-up  copy  the  contents  of  a  Microdisk  unit  onto  multiple  flopp' 
disk  volumes. 


OSM  Memory  Management. 

The  Microdisk  Memory  Manager  controls  the  allocation  of 
memory  blocks  to  tasks,  provides  dynamic  program  demand  alloca- 
tion for  assembly  language  programs,  and  specifiable  partition  sizes 
for  user  BASIC  programs.  Programs  can  also  be  allocated  portions  of 
memory  from  different  bank  switchable  memory  boards,  if  the 
address  ranges  do  not  overlap.  For  assembly  language  programs, 
the  address  ranges  may  be  noncontiguous.  (A  BASIC  program  uses 
an  address-contiguous  memory  area.) 


MICRODISK  SUBSYSTEMS 

FORMATTED 
MEMORY 
NO.  OF         SPACE  (M        LIST  OUR 

PART  NO.  PLATTERS  BYTE)  PRICE  PRICE 

MCP12611  1  6~1         $4923.00    $4190.00 

MCP12621  2  18.2         $5148.00   $4435.00 

MCP12631  3  31.1         $5673.00   $4935.00 

For  S-100  bus  Systems,  you  must  order  controller  and  OSM 
Software  Package  to  the  right 


OSM  Executive. 

The  OSM  Executive  lets  you  control  the  normal  operation  of  your 
computer  system  with  dialogue  through  interactive  terminals,  and 
offers  command  dialogue  access  to  the  Supervisor  facilities. 
Included  in  the  OSM  Executive  are  controls  and  commands  to  initiate 
a  task,  name  and  set  the  execution  priority  for  a  task,  load  a  program 
as  a  task,  suspend  a  program,  resume  a  program,  place  a  program  in 
background  execution  mode,  cancel  a  program,  terminate  a  task, 
transfer  a  terminal  to  another  task,  view  the  system  status,  and  view 
the  logical  device  status. 

Access  is  also  provided  to  the  Microdisk  and  the  floppy  disk  File 
Managers  by  commands  to  re-name  a  disk  file,  change  the  filetype, 
filemode  or  password  of  a  disk  file,  change  the  Microdisk  master 
password,  view  the  directory  of  a  disk  drive  unit,  and  view  the 
amount  of  free  space  on  a  disk  drive  unit. 


OSM  Disk  File  Management. 

Important  elements  of  the  Microdisk  Fife  Management  design 
include  the  following:  named  file  access  with  password  protection, 
dynamically  expandable  files,  sequential  record  access,  direct 
record  access,  alphanumeric  keyed  sequential  access,  alphanumeric 
keyed  random  access,  separate  key  files,  multiple  key  files,  user 
definable  file  types,  multiple  open  files  with  four  level  access  mode 
locks,  automatic  read-after-write  verification,  and  re-try  logic  for 
maximum  data  integrity. 

There  is  also  a  common  interface  scheme  between  the  floppy  disk 
and  the  Microdisk  File  Managers.  All  the  preceding  features  (except 
passwords  and  keyed  access  modes)  apply  to  the  floppy  as  well. 
Floppy  disk  formatting  is  compatible  with  the  Micropolis  PDS  4.0 
format. 


OSM  BASIC  File  Management. 

Micropolis  OSM  BASIC'S  file  management  capabilities  are  per- 
formed through  the  Microdisk  and  floppy  disk  File  Managers  in  OSM. 
Each  file  stored  on  a  disk  is  identified  by  a  file  name  which  may  be  up 
to  ten  characters  long,  and  the  files  may  have  an  optional  password. 
Files  can  be  BASIC  program  files,  assembly  language  object  files,  or 
data  files,  and  the  Microdisk  will  support  index  files.  Also,  permanent 
and  write  protect  attributes  may  be  assigned  on  a  per  file  basis. 

There  are  statements  to  RENAME  files,  modify  the  end-of-file 
MARKER  (EOF),  and  change  file  attributes  (ATTR),  Functions  are  also 
available  to  find  the  name,  size,  and  attributes  of  a  file,  as  well  as  to 
find  out  how  much  space  is  free  on  a  given  disk  unit. 

The  File  Managers  automatically  maintain  placement  of  files  on 
the  disk,  with  initial  space  for  a  new  file  allocated  by  the  system  at 
the  time  of  creation.  Existing  files  are  automatically  extended  as 
necessary  without  any  required  preallocation.  When  a  file  is 
SCRATCHed,  its  space  returns  automatically  to  available  status. 


S-100  BUS  CONTROLLER  AND  OSM  SOFTWARE 

PACKAGE  ON  W  METAFLOPPY  SINGLE  (M2), 

OR  DOUBLE  (M4)  DISKETTES 

PART  NO.  MEDIA  TYPE       LIST  PRICE    OUR  PRICE 


OSM  BASIC. 

When  BASIC  is  loaded,  you  have  a  powerful  set  of  tools  for  devel- 
oping, testing,  executing,  and  maintaining  BASIC  programs. 

OSM  BASIC  program  lines  can  be  as  long  as  250  characters,  and 
may  include  multiple  statements,  the  maximum  line  number  being 
65,529. 

Micropolis  OSM  BASIC  has  11  immediate  mode  commands,  which 
are  as  follows:  SAVE  a  file,  LOAD  a  file,  SCRATCH  a  file.  LIST  a 
program.  DELETE  lines  from  a  program,  RUN  a  program.  CNTL/C  to 
interrupt  a  running  program,  CONT  to  continue  an  interrupted  pro- 
gram, CNTL/X  to  cancel  an  input  line,  and  FLOW  and  NOFLOW  to 
enable  and  disable  the  flow  trace  debugging  aid. 

OSM  BASIC  File  Programming. 

Micropolis  OSM  BASIC  data  file  programming  is  easy  to  use.  You 
can  open  files  simultaneously  for  sequential  and  random  (direct) 
access  in  both  read  and  write  modes  —  with  only  one  OPEN  state- 
ment. Up  to  ten  files  may  be  open  at  one  time  —  with  no  special 
buffering  provisions  necessary. 

The  CLEAR  option  lets  you  open  a  file  for  rewrite  instead  of  append, 
while  END  option  provides  you  with  an  on-endfile-goto- 
capability.  And  the  ERROR  option  gives  you  an  on-error-goto- 
capability. 

You  can  also  open  Microdisk  files  for  keyed  sequential  and  keyed 
direct  access.  One  or  more  index  key  files  may  be  associated  with  a 
given  data  file.  Index  files  may  be  handled  separately  or  they  may  be 
automatically  coupled  to  an  open  data  file.  Data  is  written  to,  and 
read  from,  files  using  PUT  and  GET  statements  with  variable  lists. 
This  allows  a  mixture  of  numeric  and  string  variables.  Files  must  be 
CLOSEd  after  use. 

This  file  I/O  structure  also  extends  to  your  printer  and  terminal 
output  files,  to  afford  you  a  high  degree  of  device  independence.  And 
additional  options  on  the  OPEN  statement  (PAGESIZE  and  ENOPAGE) 
facilitate  the  pagination  of  output  reports.  In  fact,  print  files  may  be 
easily  diverted  to  terminal  or  disk  simply  by  changing  a  file  name  in 
the  OPEN  statement. 

The  Microdisk  subsystem.  A  timely  arrival  from  Micropolis. 

The  Microdisk's  hardware  is  available  in  one,  two  or  three  platter 
configurations,  with  delivery  of  formatted  storage  capacities  of  6.2, 
187,  and  31.2  megabytes. 

Winchester  technology  is  incorporated  in  the  Microdisk  design, 
which  is  packaged  in  two  sections.  The  lower  half,  which  contains 
the  platters,  disk  heads,  and  positioner,  is  completely  sealed.  The 
upper  half,  which  is  accessible  for  maintenance,  contains  four  circuit 
boards,  including  the  Micropolis  intelligent  controller. 

When  you  get  right  down  to  it.  the  Microdisk  subsystem  is  a 
much-needed,  timely  solution  for  capacity-starved  microcomputer 
users. 

Maybe  that's  one  reason  why,  in  just  four  years.  Micropolis  is 
already  the  second-largest  producer  of  5'A-inch  floppy  disk  drives  — 
for  both  OEMs  and  end-users. 

And  we  won't  be  number  two  forever. 


PART  NO. 


MICRODISK  ADD-ON  DRIVES 

FORMATTED 
NO.  OF  MEMORY  LIST  OUR 

PLATTERS       SPACE  (M 
____^         BYTE)  PRICE  PRICE 


MCPOSM1002         5'/4"  M2  Diskette      $660.00  $560.00 

MCPOSM1004         5  V  M4  Diskette      $660.00  $560.00 

PREREQUISITE:  To  install  your  Microdisk  subsystem,  you  must 
have  access  to  a  Metafloppy  (M2,  or  M4)  subsystem. 


MCP12511 
MCP12521 
MCP12531 


6.1 

$4458.00 

$3995.00 

18.2 

$4683.00 

$4250.00 

31.1 

$5208.00 

$4695.00 

PLEASE  ORDER  BY  PART  NUMBER 


BYTE  November  1980 


80- 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


MICROPOLIS  DISK  DRIVE  SUBSYSTEMS 


NOW  DOUBLE  SIDED 


At  Micropolis,  complete  means  complete. 

Some  suppliers  offer  only  hardware  and  call 
that  complete.  At  Micropolis  complete 
means  everything:  hardware  and  software 
and  documentation. 

The  hardware  set  is  complete  with 
S-100/8080/Z-80  compatible  controller, 
drive(s),  cable-even  a  built-in  Autoload 
bootstrap  ROM  to  eliminate  tiresome  button 
pushing. 

Our  full  Disk  Extended  BASIC  and  DOS, 
assembler  and  editor  software  comes  com- 
plete, too.  On  its  own  diskette,  ready  to  go. 
Software  from  Micropolis  includes  a  DOS 
and  Disk  Extended  Basic  designed  for 
8080/Z80-based  microcomputers. 

DOS  is  a  complete  package,  including  an 
assembler,  editor,  file  management  func- 
tions and  utilities,  which  provides  total  sup- 
port for  8080  programming.  BASIC  is  a  self- 
contained  package  which  provides  a  powerful  set  of  tools  for  developing,  testing,  executing,  and  maintaining  BASIC  programs. 

BASIC  is  designed  for  microcomputers  with  at  least  24K  bytes  of  RAM  and  a  Micropolis  MetaFloppy  disk  system.  DOS  can  be  used 
alone  in  a  16K  bytes  memory  system. 

Activating  the  built-in  Auto  load  ROM  brings  up  the  system  under  control  of  the  DOS  executive.  BASIC  can  be  accessed  by  issuing  a 
simple  DOS  command. 

Both  packages  are  designed  for  flexible,  efficient  programming.  Both  packages  use  the  same  file  structure  and  file  management 
scheme  for  total  compatibility.  8080  programs  created  under  DOS  can  be  loaded  and  accessed  from  BASIC.  Data  files  created  under 
BASIC  can  be  processed  by  user  written  application  programs  running  under  the  DOS. 

At  Micropolis,  complete  means  COMPLETE. 

Imagine  getting  all  the  capacity  of  an  8-inch  floppy  in  a  5 'A -inch  format. 

MetaFloppy  can  give  you  this  higher  capacity  because  it  packs  more  data  into  every  disk.  You  get  the  capacity  of  larger  8-inch  drives  with  the  lower  price  and  smaller  packaging 
of  5V.i-inch  drives. 

An  ordinary  5'/4-incn  floppy  provides  just  35  tracks/drive  and  stores  only  70K  bytes.  Not  nearly  enough  for  anything  useful.  So  instead,  we  use  77  tracks— each  with  16  sectors  of 
256  bytes/sector— to  yield  a  capacity  of  315K  bytes  per  side.  That's  more  than  four  times  an  ordinary  5 V4-inch  floppy!  And  why  we  call  this  one  "quad  density." 

Combine  two  of  these  drives  in  a  compact  dual  module  and  you  can  copy  diskettes  from  one  drive  to  the  other,  or  rearrange  data  files,  or  whatever.  The  dual  unit  stores  630K 
bytes.  Enough  for  almost  anything.  But  just  in  case  that  isn't  enough,  our  controller  can  handle  two  duals  {or  four  singles).  That  means  your  micro  can  have  more  than  a  million 
bytes  of  formatted  disk  storage. 

If  that  still  isn't  enough,  on  special  order  you  can  add  a  second  controller  with  up  to  four  more  drives.  That  will  give  you  a  grand  total  of  over  2,500,000  bytes  of  storage  on-line. 

This  means,  if  your  application  keeps  growing,  we've  got  you  covered  in  easy  steps.  And  you  get  all  these  bytes  at  surprisingly  low  cost. 

Faster  than  a  speeding  bullet. 

At  Micropolis,  we  don't  skimp  on  performance  to  deliver 
maximum  capacity.  So  you  can  expect  professional  operating 
speed  and  efficiency.  Like  checks  and  balances,  such  as 
automatic  read  verification  after  writing,  that  you  would  ex- 
pect in  a  sophisticated  data  processing  system. 

Like  fast  track-to-track  positioning  time  of  only  30 
milliseconds.  And  a  data  transfer  rate  of  250,000  bits  per  sec- 
ond. 

Up,  Up,  and  away! 

Metafloppy    gets    along    well    with    almost 
everyone. 

So  choose  the  microcomputer  you  want.  MetaFloppy's  con- 
troller  is  completely  compatible  with  the  S-100/8080/Z-80  buss. 
It  just  plugs  Into  your  MITS  8800,  IMSAI  8080,  COMPAL-80. 
SOL-20,  Polymorphic  88,  CBOMEMCO,  TDL,  or  similar  micro 
and  it's  ready  to  go.  The  memory  mapped  controller/bootstrap 
may  be  origined  at  any  1 K  byte  boundary  in  the  48K  to  64K  byte 
region  of  memory. 

For  small  businesses,  for  engineers  who  want  to  develop 
their  own  software,  or  for  the  advanced  hobbyist,  MetaFIODpy 

ADD-ON  STORAGE  MODULES 

The  MetaFloppy  Add-On  Storage  Modules  provide  additional  storage  by  adding  more 
drives  to  the  controller  supplied  with  the  subsystems  A  maximum  of  four  drives  can  be 
attached  to  each  controller  by  use  of  the  daisy  chain  cafjies 
Add-On  modules  do  not  include  Controller.  User's  Manual  or  diskettes. 

DOUBLE  SIDED 

PART  H  DESCRIPTION LIST  PRICE       OUR  PRICE 


METAFLOPPY  DISK  SUBSYSTEMS 


Subsystems  complete  with  BASIC.  DOS,  Assembler/Editor.  Users  Manual,  S-100  Con- 
troller, complete  Calling,  Cabinet,  and  Power  Supply 


DOUBLE  SIDED 


LIST  PRICE       OUR  PRICE 


MCP-10S4-4 

Four-disk  system  with  2,520.000 
bytes  (formatted)  on-line  storage 
capacity  50  lbs 

S4.622  00 

$3,995  00 

MCP-1 053-4 

Two-disk  sysiem  with  1,260.000 
bytes  (formaltedl  of  on-line  storage 
capacity  25  lbs 

S2.605.00 

S2.295.00 

MC  PI  043  4 

One  disk  system  with  630,000 
bytes  (formatted)  of  on-line  storage 
capacity  16  lbs 

SINGLE  SIDED 

S1.50l.00 

SI. 298.00 

PART* 

DESCRIPTION 

LIST  PRICE 

OUR  PRICE 

Subsystems  complete  with  BASIC.  DOS.  Assembler/Editor,  Users  Manual,  S-100  Con- 
troller. Cabinet  and  Data  Cable. 

Requires  DC  Regulator  Kit  (Parts  MCP-1091011.  to  converl  raw  S-100  Suss  0C  supplies 
to  voltages  necessary  for  the  Drive  Module 


DOUBLE  SIDED 


LIST  PRICE       OUR  PRICE 


One-dtsk  sysiem  with  630  000 
bytes  Iformattedl  of  on-line  storage 
capacity 

SINGLE  SIDED 


SI.  41900        S1.250.00 


LIST  PRICE      OUR  PRICE 


Two-dtsk  1,260.000  byte  add-on  wilt- 
enclosure  and  power  supply  Re- 
quires daisy  chain  cable  25  lbs 
One-disk  630.000  byte  add-on  with 
enclosure  and  power  supply  Re- 
quires daisy  chain  cable  16  lbs 
One-disk  630.000  byte  add-on  with 
enclosure  Requires  daisy  chain 
cable  and  regulator  kit  8  lbs 


DESCRIPTION 


SINGLE  SIDE0 


LIST  PRICE       OUR  PRICE 


Four-disk  system  with  1.260.000  S3.290  (X 

bytes  (formalledl  on-line  storage 

capacity  50  lbs 

Two-disk  sysiem  with  630  000  51  895  (X 

byles  i  formatted)  of  on-line  storage 

capacity  25  lbs 

One  disk  system  with  315,000  $1,14501 

bytes  Iformattedl  of  on-line  storage  capacity  16  lbs 


One-disk  system  with  315.000 
byles  (formaltedl  of  on-line  storage 
capacity 


Two-disk  630.000  byte  add-on  with 
enclosure  and  power  supply  Re- 
quires daisy  chain  cable  25  lbs 
One-disk  315,000  byte  add-on  with 
enclosure  and  power  supply  Re- 
quires daisy  chain  cable  16  lbs 
One  disk  315,000  byle  add-on  with 
enclosure  Requires  daisy  chain 
cable  and  regulator  kit  8  lbs 


$1,395  00        Jl  .279.00 


80  —  10 


BYTE  November  1980 


WE  ACCEPT  VISA,  and  MASTER-CHARGE 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


MICROPOLIS"  DISC  DRIVE  SUB  SYSTEMS 


MACROFLOPPY  DISC  SUBSYSTEMS 


DESCRIPTION 


LIST  PRICE     OUR  PRICE 


One-disk  system  with  143,000 
bytes  capacity.  16  lbs. 


$795.00 


$698.00 


MCP-1041-l  One-disk  system  with  143,000 

bytes  capacity.  Requires  d.c. 
regulator  kit,  part  number  1091-01, 
to  convert  raw  S-100  bus  d.c.  sup- 
plies to  voltages  necessary  for  the 
drive  module.  10  lbs. 


$695.00 


MACROFLOPPY  ADDON  STORAGE  MODULES 
The  two  versions  of  the  MacroFloppy  add-on  storage  modules  are: 

LIST  PRICE 

MCP-1021-l  One-disk  143,000  byte  add-on  with  $445.00 

enclosure.  Requires  daisy  chain 
cable  and  regulator  kit.  8  lbs. 


OUR  PRICE 
$410.00 


MCP-1022-l  One-disk  143,000  byte  add-on  with 

enclosure  and  power  supply.  Re- 
quires daisy  chain  cable.  15  lbs. 


$545.00 


NOTE:  Add-on  modules  do  not  include  Controller,  User's  Manual  or  Diskettes. 


At  Micropolis,  we  pack  100%  more  capacity  into  a  5%  -inch  floppy. 

Meet  the  Micropolis  MacroFloppy.  From  the  Greek  "macro,"  meaning  "large, 
great." 

The  MacroFloppy:  1041  and  :1042  disk  drive  subsystems  give  you  up  to  two  times 
greater  storage  capacity  than  ordinary  51/4-inch  floppy  disks.  143K  bytes,  to  be  ex- 
act. For  less  money  than  you'd  think  possible.  Both  subststems,  in  fact,  are  the 
lowest  cost  approaches  to  adding  the  capabilities  of  a  floppy  to  your  S-100  system. 

The  70K  (or  thereabouts)  bytes  provided  by  most  5% -inch  floppies  have  never 
been  enough.  Expecially  today,  when  you  need  more  high-speed  random  access 
storage  than  ever.  To  help  you  work  with  larger  data  files.  And  use  programs  bigger 
than  your  computer's  memory. 

MacroFloppy  provides  you  with  that  needed  extra  storage.  And  so  economically. 

Two  complete  subsystems.  Ready  to  go. 

Both  the  MacroFloppy:  1041  and  :1042  are  fully  assembled,  tested,  burned-in,  and 
tested  again.  For  zero  start-up  pain  and  long  term  reliability.  They're  also  backed  up 
by  our  famous  Micropolis  factory  warranty. 

They  both  come  complete  with  the  powerful,  field-proven  Micropolis  extended 
disk  BASIC.  And  both  subsystems  allow  upward  capability  of  BASIC  programs  with 
the  high-capacity  MetaFloppy  quad  density  floppy  subsystems. 

So  you  can  use  the  low-cost  MacroFloppy  for  program  development,  and  upgrade 
later  to  the  high  capacity  MetaFloppy. 

In  other  words,  if  your  application  keeps  growing,  we've  got  you  covered. 

At  Micropolis,  you  get  it  all.  From  a  single  source- 
Some  suppliers  offer  only  hardware  and  call  that  everything.  At  Micropolis, 
everything  means  everything:  hardware,  software,  and  documentation. 

The  MacroFloppy:  1041  comes  packaged  inside  a  protective  enclosure  (without 
power  supply).  And  includes  an  S-100  controller.  Interconnect  cable.  And  2  disket- 
tes, one  of  them  the  Micropolis  BASIC,  a  compatible  DOS,  assembler  and  editor. 
The:1041  is  even  designed  to  be  used  either  on  your  desk  top,  or  to  be  integrated 
right  into  your  S-100  chassis.  A  d.c.  voltage  regulator  kit,  1091-01,  is  available  to 
convert  your  S-100  chassis  raw  supplies  to  levels  suitable  for  the  :1041,  at  small  ad- 
ditional cost. 

The  MacroFloppy:  1042  comes  with  everything  the  :1041  has,  and  more.  Such  as 
d.c.  regulators,  its  own  line  voltage  power  supply,  and  to  top  it  off,  a  striking  cover. 
Making  it  look  right  at  home  just  about  anywhere. 

To  complete  the  package,  we  even  include  a  comprehensive  User's  Manual  in- 
cluding software  descriptions,  that  tells  you  just  what  to  do,  and  how  to  do  it. 
Because  we  know  that  you  need  it  all. 

CABLES  (1  lb.) 


MCP-1083-01 

Standard  interface  cable  A,  with  2  connectors  for 
use  with  1  storage  module  attached  to  controller. 

$25.00 

MCP-1083-02 

Daisy  chain  interface  cable  B,  with  3  connectors 
for  use  with  2  storage  modules  attached  to 
controller. 

$35.00 

MCP-1083-03 

Daisy  chain  interface  cable  C,  with  4  connectors 
for  use  with  3  storage  modules  attached  to 
controller. 

$50.00 

MCP- 1083-04 

Daisy  chain  interface  cable  D.  with  5  connectors 
for  use  with  4  storage  modules  attached  to 
controller. 

$65.00 

MCP- 1092-06 

Power  cable  A,  to  be  used  in  conjunction  with 
1015/1016  series  drives. 

$8.00 

MCP-1092-07 

Power  cable  B,  to  be  used  in  conjunction  with 
1021/1041  series  systems. 

$8.00 

AnrFSSORIFS 

MCP-1091-01 

Regulator  kit  for  1041,  1021,  1015  and  1016. 

$20.00 

MCP-1092-01 

Relocatable  bootstrap  kit. 

$25.00 

MCP-1 093-03 

Poly  88  kit  (relocated  BASIC  MDOS) 

$25.00 

Ordinary        Micropolis 
b% "  floppy      MetaFloppy™ 

Each  one  of  our  floppy  disks  has  a  remarkable  storage  capacity, 
eliminating  the  need  to  keep  bothersome  stacks  of  paper. 


PLEASE  ORDER  BY  PART  NUMBER 


BYTE  November  1980 


80  —  11 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


CK-017  ACTIVE  TERMINATOR 

Active  termination  promotes  reliable  and  accurate  data 
transfer  by  minimizing  the  ringing,  cross-talk,  overshoot, 
noise  and  other  gremlins  that  can  occur  with  unterminated 
lines.  Also  saves  considerable  energy  compared  to  passive 
termination  systems,  thereby  putting  less  strain  on  your 
power  supply  and  keeping  heat  out  of  the  enclosure.  All  lines 
(except  power  &  ground)  terminated  to  2.7  V  through  270 
ohms. 
GBT-I06U  Kit  1  lb $34.95 


Extender/Terminator 

•  Active  and/or  dynamic  termination 

•  All  power  lines  fused  for  protection 

•  All  S-100  lines  labeled  and  numbered 

•  Can  be  used  as  an  extender  and/or  terminator 

•  Solder  mask  both  sides  of  board 

•  Silkscreened  reference  designations 

•  Gold  plated  fingers 

CCS-2520AK  Kit  1  lb $39.95 


S-100  Extender  Board 

Includes  built-in  logic  probe,  great  instructions.  Allows  you 
to  troubleshoot  and  work  on  boards  outside  of  the  system. 
Ideal  for  taking  measurements;  makes  probing  the  board 
easy.  Includes  non-slip  type  probe.  Logic  probe  indicates  H, 
L,  &  pulse  train  w/3  different  colored  LEDs.  Kit  form. 
MUL-CK004  $59.00 


MUL-CK011 
S-100  Relay/Opto-isolator  Kit 

S-100  compatible,  8  fast  reed  relays  respond  to  an  8  bit 
word.  Also,  8  opto-isolators  accept  an  8  bit  word  from 
outside  and  send  it  to  your  computer  for  handshaking  or 
further  control  purposes.  Good  for  model  railroad,  burglar 
alarm,  audio  switching,  automated  display,  ham  radio 
and  other  uses. 

MUL  CK0I1K Kit $129.00 

MUL-CK011    AST S179.0D 


S-100 
MOTHERBOARDS 


S-100  MOTHERBOARDS 

WITH  ACTIVE  TERMINATION  &  SHIELDING 

6,  12,  or  20  slot 

Active  termination  for  buffering  to  2.7  volts  at  280  ohms 

Standby  current,  a  low  15-20  MA 

Shielding  further  reduces  noise  factor 

All  power  is  brought  out  to  a  block  connector  for 

convenience. 

S-100  connectors  are  .125"  pin  to  pin  on  3/4"  centers. 

Assembled  and  tested. 


GBT-153U 
GBT-153A 
GBT-154U 
GBT-154A 
GBT-155U 
GBT-155A 


UNKIT6SL0T 
A&T 6  SLOT 
UNKIT  12  SLOT 
AST  12  SLOT 
UNKIT  20  SLOT 
AST  20  SLOT 


LIST  PRICE 


$129.00 
$169.00 
$214.00 


OUR  PRICE 
$  89.00 
$119.00 
$129.00 
$149.00 
$174.00 
$189.00 


THE  WUNDERBUSS  with  Noiseguard" 
High-performance  S-100  bussboards 

shown  WUNDERBUSS720 

Capacity:  20  positions 
Dimensions:  17'A"x81/2" 


Specifications: 

•  Edge  Connectors:  S-100  type,  .125"  spacing  on  3/4" 
centers. 

•  Shielding:  Every  signal  fully  shielded  by  both  intercon- 
nected ground  lines,  2nd  cross-coupled  ground  planes. 

•  Termination:  Active  termination  of  each  line.  Termina- 
tion network  includes  LM  201  op  amp  and  2  PNP/NPN 
pairs  for  buffering  to  2.4  volts  at  180  ohms. 

•  Mounting:  Holes  at  each  edge  connector  position,  plus 
auxiliary  holes  to  fit  IMSAI  cabinet. 

•  Power  Connectors:  "Fast  on"  connectors  at  all  10 
positions. 

•  Power  Required:  7 to  10  volts;  14  to  20 volts;  —14 to  —20 
volts. 

•  Peripheral  Power  Outputs:  5  volts  at  1  amp,  12  volts  at 
500ma;  — 12  volts  at  500ma. 

•  Circuit  Board:  Double-sided  glass  epoxy  with  plated 
through  holes.  Solder  mask  on  both  sides  and  part 
legend 

KITS  (less  S-100  connectors) 


THT-WB8K 

$54.00 

THT-WB12K 

$65.00 

THT-WB20K 

$76.00 
A&T  (with  connectors) 

LIST  PBICE 

OUR  PRICE 

THT-WB8A 

$144.00 

$136.00 

THT-WB12A 

$175.00 

$165.00 

THT-WB20A 

$226.00 

$209.00 

SILENCE  + 
MOTHERBOARDS 

♦  No  Need  for  Termination  ♦  Very  High  Crosstalk  Rejection 
+  LED  Power  Indicator  +  Fits  in  Most  Mainframes  ♦  6. 12, 
and  18  Slots  Available  ♦  Has  Operated  in  14  MHz  Quietly. 


QTC-MB6BB 

QTC-MB6K 

QTC-MB6A 

QTC-MB12BB 

QTC-MB12K 

QTC-MB12A 

QTC-MB1BBB 

QTC-MB1BK 

QTC-MB18A 


6  SLOT  BARE  BOARD 

6  SLOT  KIT 

6  SLOT  A&T 

12  SLOT  BARE  BOARD 

12  SLOT  KIT 

12  SLOT  A&T 

18  SLOT  BARE  BOARD 

18  SLOT  KIT 

18  SLOT  A&T 


$  25.00 
$  40.00 
$  50.00 
$  30.00 
$  70.00 
$  90.00 
$  50.00 
$100.00 
$140.00 


MOTHERBOARD 

WITH  ACTIVE  TERMINATION 

•  Twelve-slot  capability  using  standard  S-100  connectors 

•  Low-reactance  pin  connectors  to  eliminate  ringing  and 
data  error 

•  "Double  path"  trace  pattern  which  halves  the  line 
inductance 

•  On-board  voltage  regulator 

•  Active  termination  to  regulate  signal  line  voltages 

•  Wide  spacing  of  bus  lines 

•  Criss-cross  bus  lines  to  minimize  signal  noise 

•  Distributed  by-passing  of  all  power  lines 

•  Capability  of  supporting  CPUs  at  4  MHz  and  above 

•  Solder  mask  on  both  sides  of  board 

•  Simple,  strong  mounting 


CCS-2501A 


$119.95 


VCT-8803  Motherboard  for 
S-100  Bus  Microcomputer 

Mounts  11  receptacles  with  100  contacts  or  10  receptacles 
plus  interconnectors  to  smaller  boards  for  expansion. 
Connectors  mount  with  tabs  protruding  through  .038  inch 
(1  mm)  diameter  holes  in  rows  spaced  .250  inch  (6.4  mm) 
on  each  connector  position  and  0.75  inch  (19  mm)  between 
connector  positions.  Includes  etched  circuit  and  instruc- 
tions for  active  or  passive  terminations  plus  12  tantalum 
capacitors  for  +5,  *12,  —12  volt  buses,  and  spacers  for 
mounting  in  Vector  VP1  or  VP2  cases.  G-10  epoxy  glass 
board  with  2  ounce  copper,  solder  plated  circuitry  plus 
solder  mask  to  avoid  accidental  short  circuits.  Large 
buses:  +5  V  and  GND  (10  amps),  +12  V  or  16  V  (7  amps). 
Current  ratings  are  per  MIL-STD-275  with  10°  rise. 
Shipping  weight  2  pounds  (.9  kg) $29.50 


80  —  12 


BYTE  November  1980 


ORDER  TOLL  FREE  (800)  423  5633 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


MAINFRAMES 
THE  BMW  OF  S-100  MAINFRAMES 

From  the  power  supply  through  the  sturdy  chassis,  TEI 
constructs  and  assembles  each  mainframe  with  great 
care.  Every  TEI  mainframe  utilizes  a  constant  voltage 
transformer  (CVT)  which  delivers  clean,  regulated  power 
at  the  proper  level,  reducing  the  heat  in  the  computer 
cards.  The  output  voltage  on  the  transformer  remains 
nearly  even  with  the  input  voltage  varying  from  approx- 
imately 85V  to  140V,  This  means  the  mainframe  will  never 
notice  voltage  variations  or  even  a  brownout.  It  also  pro- 
vides 100  dB  noise  rejection  to  protect  the  computer  from 
voltage  spikes  and  line  noise. 


TEI  22  slot  and  12  slot  mainframes  offer  a  S-100  mother- 
board which  is  grounded,  shielded  and  actively  terminated 
for  high  speed  operation  now  or  for  later  upgrading.  Each 
mainframe  is  shipped  completely  assembled,  tested  and 
burned  in,  with  fan,  washable  filter,  all  connectors  and  card 
guides,  Rackmount  models  are  available  in  both22  and  12 
slot  mainframes.  The  combination  of  the  lowest  noise  bus, 
a  regulated  CVT  power  system  and  a  rugged  chassis 
produces  a  mainframe  without  equal. 


LIST 
S-100  MAINFRAMES  PRICE 

TEI-MCS112         12  Slot  Desk  $685.00 

TEI-MCS122  22  Slot  Desk  S84S.00 

TEI-RM12  12  Slot  Rackmount         $800.00 

TEI-RM22  22  Slot  Rackmount  $945.00 

Shipping  Weight:  On  12  Slot  Mainframes    35  Lbs. 
On  22  Slot  Mainframes    50  Lbs 
S-100  MAINFRAMES 
WITH  3  CUTOUTS 
F0R5V4" 
FLOPPY  DISK  DRIVES 
INTERNAL  CABLING  IS  PROVIDED 
TEI-TF12  12  Slot  $695.00 

TEI-RM12  12  Slot  $795.00 

Shipping  Weight:  40  Lbs. 


OUR 
PRICE 
$615.00 
$760.00 
$720.00 
$850.00 


$625.00 
$715.00 


•  S-100  compatible 

•  Industrial/commercial  quality  construction 

•  Flip-top  cover 

•  Excellent  cooling  capability 

•  12  slot  capability  (uses  model  2501A) 

•  Input  105,  115,  or  125  VAC 

■  Output +8  VDC20A,  +       16VDC4A 

•  Active  termination  of  all  bus  lines 

•  Fan  and  circuit  breaker  included 

•  Rugged  construction 


CCS-2200A  Assembled  «.  Tested  35  lbs 


List    Our  Price 
$399.00     $369.95 


CCS-2200AK  Kit  35  lbs $349.95 


THINKER  TOYS 
8"  DISK  DRIVE  CABINET 

George  Morrow  is  recognized  as  a  pioneer  and  an  industry 
leader  because  of  his  innovative  designs  and  participation 
on  the  S1000  IEEE  Standards  Committee,  George  has 
designed  these  floppy  disc  enclosures  with  power  supply, 
which  incorporates  the  following  features: 

•  Internal  data  cable  and  power  cables 

•  Data  signals  are  terminated  at  the  back  of  the  cabinet 
with  a  socket/header  connector 

•  Regulated  power  supply  with  protection  circuitry 

•  Clean,  attractive  appearance 

•  Stackable 

•  Accommodates  Shugart  SA801R,  SA800R,  SA581R, 
SA850R.  Siemans  FDD120/200  Series.  Demex  2000, 
Remex  4000 

•  Vented  chassis  for  cool,  reliable  operation 

•  Color  Beige 

•  Shipping  weight:  20  lbs.  (single  drive  cabinet) 

30  lbs.  (dual  drive  cabinet) 


THT-DC1 
THT-DC2 


Single  Drive  Cabinet 
Dual  Drive  Cabinet 


$  250.00 
$  375.00 


BUY  CABINET  AND  SHUGART 
801R  DRIVES  AND  SAVE 

SINGLE  CABINET 

THT-S801R1P  $  720.00 

DUAL  CABINET 

WITH  ONE  DRIVE  WITH  TWO  DRIVES 

THT-0801R1P  $825.00         THT-D801R2P         $1250.00 

Shipping  Weight:  Add  15  lbs  per  drive 

EXTERNAL  DATA  CABLES 


PRI-50SKSK 
PRI-50CESK 
PRI-50CECE 


Socketto  Socket 
Cardedge  to  Socket 
Cardedge  to  Carded 


(Accepts  2  each  5V  Disk  Drives) 

MF  +  MD 

Includes  cabinet,  18  amp  power  supply,  IEEE  S-100  Moth- 
erboard (6-12  slot)  and  dual-mim-disk  provision  with  disk 
drive  power  supply.  The  QT  +  MF  +  MD  is  fan-cooled,  has 
AC  line  filter  to  eliminate  EMI,  and  is  fully  assembled  and 
factory  tested.  Power  and  reset  switches  are  located  on 
the  front  panel. 

OTC-MF+MD12  S50O.00     QTC-MF+MD6     $450.00 

QTC-MF+MD  Without  Mother  Board  S400. 


QT  MAINFRAME  +  MF  + 


Includes  cabinet,  30  amp  power  supply,  and  the  IEEE 
S-100  motherboard  (12  or  18-slot).  The  QT  MF+  is  fan- 
cooled,  has  AC  line  filter  to  eliminate  EMI,  and  is  fully 
assembled  and  factory  tested.  Power  and  reset  switches 
are  located  on  front  panel, 

QTC-MF+12         $450.00  QTC-MFf18         $500.00 

QTC-MF+  Without  Mother  Board  S350.00 


SHUGART  SA801R 


2  OR  MORE 

$470.00 

Capacity 

Single  Density 

Double  Density 

Unformatted 

Per  Disk 

3.2  megabits 

6-4  megabits 

Per  Track 

41.7  kilobits 

83.4  kilobits 

IBM  Format 

Per  Disk 

2.0  megabits 

n/a 

Per  Track 

26.6  kilobits 

n/a 

Transfer  Rate 

250  kilobits/sec. 

500  kilobits/sec. 

Latency  (average) 

83  ms 

83  ms 

Access  Time 

Track  to  Track 

8  ms 

8  ms 

Average 

260  ms 

260  ms 

Setting  Time 

8  ms 

8  ms 

Head  Load  Time 

35  ms 

35  ms 

Shugarts  SA801  standard  floppy  disk  drive  is  the  estab- 
lished industry  leader  with  over  85,000  units  installed 
around  the  world.  This  floppy  disk  drive  application  leader- 
ship is  backed  by  17  patents  and  a  technical  staff  with 
hundreds  of  man-years  of  disk  drive  engineering 
experience. 

the  SA801R  floppy  disk  drive  is  mechanically  and  elec- 
tronically the  same  as  the  SA801  except  it  has  a  narrower 
chassis  width  pius  side  and  bottom  mounting  posts  to 
facilitate  installation  of  two  drives  side-by-side  in  a  stan- 
dard 19"  RETMArack. 


Shipping  Weight  15  I 


SHUGART SA400 


ACTIVITY  LIGHT 

WRITE  PROTECT  CIRCUITRY 

CAPACITY 

TRACKS 

HEADS 

BIT  TRANSFER  RATE 

RECORDING  DENSITY 

AVERAGE  ACCESS  TIME 

DRIVE  DIMENSIONS 

SHIPPING  WEIGHT 


110KB 

35 

1 

125K  bits/sec. 

2600BPImax. 

550  msec. 

3.25"Hx575"Wx8"L 

4  LBS. 


SHUGART  SA400  5%" 

110  KB,  35  tracks 

SHU-SA400  $295.00 

IN  A  CABINET 

WITH  POWER  SUPPLY 

LBO-SA400  PC  „-, $395.00 


GODBOUT 
S-100  MAINFRAMES 

•  Rugged  metal  frame 

•  Line  cord 

•  Line  filter 

fan 

•  Fuse  holder 

•  2  Convenience  outlets 

•  Cardguides 

•  Base  is  drilled  to  accept  all  vector 
&  Godbout  motherboards 

•  Desk  and  rack  mount 

•  Back  panel  has  cutouts  for 
12-DB25.  3-DA15.  &  2-DD50 
connectors 

GBT-B0X  DESK   $289.00 

GBT-B0X  RACK   $329.00 

SHIPPING  WEIGHT:  23  LBS 


PLEASE  ORDER  BY  PART  NUMBER 


BYTE  November  1980  80  —  13 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


HAZ141 

Shipping  Weight  48  lbs. 
STANDARD  FEATURES: 

•  Separate  integral  12-key  Numeric  Pad 

•  All  128  ASCII  Codes 

•  64  Displayable  Characters 

•  24  x  80  Screen  Configuration 

•  High  Resolution  using  a  5  x  7  Dot  Matrix 

•  TTY-Style  Keyboard  Layout 

•  Cursor  Addressing  and  Sensing 

•  EIA  Interface 

•  Eight  Selectable  Transmission  Rates  up  to  9600  Baud 

•  Microprocessor  Based 

•  Remote  Commands 

•  Attractive  Styling  for  Contemporary  Environments 

LIST  PRICE:  $850.00 
OUR  PRICE:  $798.00 


HAZ1420 

Shipping  Weight  4b  lbs. 
ALL  THE  FEATURES  OF  THE  "1410  "PLUS     .     .     . 

•  94  Displayable  Characters  including  lower  case 

•  15  key  Numeric  Pad  including  (*),(-)  and  Enter 

•  User-Defined  Video  Presentation     —     Hi/Lo 
Intensity  Blink,  or  Non-Display 

•  Cursor  Control  Keys 

•  Typematic 

•  Typewriter-Style  Keyboard 

•  Field  Tab 

•  Column  Tab 

•  Twelve  Operator  Function  Keys 

•  Non-Glare  Screen 

•  Audible  Alarm 

•  Remotely-Controlled  Auxiliary  EIA  Input/Output 
Interface  (Option) 

LIST  PRICE:  $995.00 
OUR  PRICE:  $949.00 

HAZ1421 

Shipping  Weight  48  lbs. 

•  All  128  ASCII  Codes 

•  95  Displayable  Characters  including  Lower  Case 

•  High  Resolution  using  a  5  x  9  Dot  Matrix  including 
two  Lower  Case  Descenders 

•  Typewriter-Style  Keyboard  Layout 

•  User-defined  Video  Presentation 

•  Cursor  Addressing  and  Sensing 

•  EIA  Interface 

•  Eight  Transmission  Rates  up  to  9600  Baud 

•  Non-Glare  Screen 

•  Self  Test 

•  12-Key  Numeric  Pad 

•  Switch-Selectable  Emulation: 

ADM  3A/Consul  580/HAZELTINE  1400  Series 
LIST  PRICE:  $895.00 
OUR  PRICE:  $859.00 


SANYO 


HAZ1500 

Shipping  Weight  48  lbs. 
STANDARD  FEATURES: 

•  All  128  ASCII  Codes 

•  94  Displayable  Characters  Including  Lower  Case 

•  24  x  80  Screen  Configuration 

•  High-Resolution  Characters  Using  a  7  x  10  Dot  Matrix 

•  ANSI  standard  Keyboard  Layout  including  Numeric 
Pad 

•  Cursor  Addressing  and  Sensing 

•  Dual  Intensity 

•  EIA  and  20MA  Interface 

•  Nine  Selectable  Transmission  Rates  Up  to  19.2  KB 

•  Auxiliary  EIA  Output 

•  Remote  Editing  Commands 

•  Standard  or  Reverse  Video 

•  Microprocessor  Based 

LIST  PRICE:  $1095.00  OUR  PRICE:  $1050.45 

HAZ1510 

Shipping  Weight  48  lbs. 
ALL  THE  FEATURES  OF  THE  "1500  "PLUS     .     .     . 

•  Cursor  Control  Keys 

•  Protected/Unprotected  Data 

•  Transmit  Page,  Line  or  batches  of  information 

•  Function  Keys    —  up  to  127 

•  Tab/Back  Tab/Auto  Tab 

•  Format  Mode  with  Insert  and  Delete  Line  Keys 

•  31  Remote  Commands  including  "Terminal  Status" 
LIST  PRICE:  $1195.00  OUR  PRICE:  $1125.00 

HAZ1520 

ALL  THE  FEATURES  OF  THE  "1510  "PLUS     .     .     . 

Separate  Microprocessor-Controlled  Printer  Interface 
which  allows: 

•  Interfacing  of  both  serial  and  parallel  printers 

•  Printerspeed  independent  of  communications  baud 
rate 

•  Printer  control  codes  to  be  sent  by  the  CPU  and 
received  by  the  printer  without  restriction  or  alter- 
ation of  the  terminal  (especially  useful  for  wide 
carriage  applications) 

•  Information  to  be  transmitted  directly  to  either  the 
printer  or  the  terminal,  or  to  both 

•  Operating  Modes/Remote  Commands:  Remote/ 
Local  Print:  Printer  On-Line  with/without  Display; 
Printer  Off-Line        Shipping  Weight  48  lbs. 

LIST  PRICE:  $1450.00  OUR  PRICE:  $1395.00 


SYQVMC6013     „_  .„ 

COLOR  DATA  DISPLAY     •  - 1    r 
MONITOR,     13  INCH  DIAGONAL 

LIST  PRICE:  $495.00   OUR  PRICE:  $475.00 

High  performance  color  data  display  monitor  for  use 
with  color  capable  computer  systems.  Features  an 
in-line  gun,  slotted  black  matrix  CRT  with  90  sq.  inch 
viewing  area;  up  front  controls  and  easy  care  steel 
cabinet.  Standard  EIA  timing  provides  a  16  line  x  64 
character  display  format.  Requires  1.0  volt  p-p  com- 
posite video  input.        Shipping  Weight  37  lbs. 


SYOVM450 

DATA  DISPLAY  MONITOR, 
9  INCH  DIAGONAL 

Shipping  Weight  15  lbs. 
LIST  PRICE:  $220.00 
OUR  PRICE:  $198.00 

Compact,  affordably  priced  data  display  monitor  is 
ideal  for  personal  use  or  where  space  is  limited.  Fea- 
tures a  44  sq.  inch  viewing  screen;  white  data  display; 
up-front  controls  and  easy  care  steel  cabinet.  Stand- 
ard EIA  timing  provides  a  16  line  x  64  character  display 
format.  Requires  1.0  volt  p-p  composite  video  input. 


SYODM501 

HIGH  PERFORMANCE  DATA  DISPLAY 
MONITOR,  12  INCH  DIAGONAL 

Shipping  Weight  24  lbs. 
LIST  PRICE:  $315.00     OUR  PRICE:  $298.00 

Designed  for  use  with  advanced  level  computer  sys- 
tems. Features  an  anti-reflective,  75  sq.  inch  viewing 
screen;  white,  high  resolution  data  display;  up-front 
controls  and  easy  care  steel  cabinet.  Computer  com- 
patible timing  provides  a  24 1 inex  80  character  display 
format.  Requires  1.0  volt  p-p  composite  video  input. 


SYO  DM5112 

PROFESSIONAL  DATA  DISPLAY 
MONITOR,  12  INCH  DIAGONAL 

Shipping  Weight  24  lbs. 
LIST  PRICE:  $325.00   OUR  PRICE:  $310.00 

This  professional  data  display  monitor  features  an 
anti-reflective,  75  sq.  inch  viewing  screen  and  green, 
high  resolution  data  display  for  maximum  viewing 
comfort.  Also  featured  are  up-front  controls  and  easy 
care  steel  cabinet.  Computer  compatible  timing  pro- 
vides a  24  line  x  80  character  display  format.  Requires 
1.0  volt  p-p  composite  video  input. 


80  —  14 


BYTE  November  1980 


VISIT  OUR  RETAIL  STORE 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


CENTRONICS® 
737  DOT  MATRIX 
PRINTER 


LETTER  QUALITY 


ode 


Standard  Features: 

•  80  cps—  proportional  spaced  mo 

•  50  cps  — monospaced  mode 

•  proportional  spacing,  plus  10  cpi  and  16.7cpi 

•  Nx9  (proportional)  or  7x8  (monospaced)  dot  matrix 

•  3  way  paper  handling  system 

•  96  character  ASCII 

•  microprocessor  electronics 

•  expanded  print 

•  right  margin  justification 

•  print  underlining 

•  9-wire  free  flight  print  head 

•  bidirectional  stepper  motor  paper  drive 

•  full  one  line  buffer 

•  21  Ipm  with  80  columns  printed 

•  58  Ipm  with  20  columns  printed 

•  6  lines  per  inch  vertical  spacing 

•  paper  tear  bar 

•  parallel  or  serial  interface 

•  50  to  9600  baud  switch  selectable 


CEN-7371  Parallel 
CEN-7373  Serial  . 


List  Price  Our  Price 
.  $  995.00  $895.00 
.  .  .$1045.00     $950.00 


CENTRONICS 
730  DOT  MATRIX  PRINTER 

Standard  Features: 

•  100  characters/second 

•  80  characters/line 

•  10  characters/inch 

•  3-way  paper  handling  system 

•  7x7  dot  matrix 

•  96  character  ASCII 

•  microprocessor  electronics 

•  unidirectional  print  at  5.0  ips 

•  high  speed  return  approximately  10  ips 

•  21  Ipm  with  80  columns  printed 

•  58  Ipm  with  30  columns  printed 

•  80  character  buffer 

•  6  Ipi  vertical 

•  Parallel  or  serial  interface 


CEN-7301  Parallel 
CEN-7303  Serial    . 


List  Price  Our  Price 
.  .  $795.00  $725.00 
.  .   $845.00     $775.00 


CENTRONICS® 

MICROPRINTER 

Nonimpact  Desk-Top  Printers 

Features: 

•  150  Lines  Per  Minute  •  96  Characters— Upper  and  Lower 
Case  •  5/10/20  Characters/Inch  — Software  Selectable  ■ 
Elongated  characters  •  Underlining  •  Simplified  Operation 

•  Quiet  •  Audio  alarm  •  Long  Life— Only  4  Moving  Parts  • 
Small  Size  and  Light  Weight  •  No  Toners/Ribbons  Re- 
quired • 

The  paper  requires  no  toners  or  ribbons.  Instead,  it 
carries  a  conductive  aluminized  coating  which  is  vaporized 
by  a  low  voltage  discharge  from  the  print  head  to  produce 
highly  readable  characters. 
CEN-P1     $349.00 

CONDUCTIVE  ALUMINIZED  PAPER  FOR 

THE  CENTRONICS  P1  AND  S1  PRINTER 

CEN-P1S1  PAP-CASE  OF  5  ROLLS $29.95 

Shipping  Weight:  4  lbs. 


MODEMS 


THE  STAR 

MODEM 

from  LIVERMORE 


FEATURE 

FITS  GTE  HANDSETS! 


2  YEAR  WARRANTY 


EXCLUSIVE  ACOUSTIC  CHAMBERS 

The  exclusive  triple  seal  of  Livermore's  new  flat  mounted 
cups  locks  the  handset  mto  the  acoustic  chamber  yielding 
superior  acoustic  isolation  and  mechanical  cushioning. 
Designed  to  adapt  to  most  common  handsets  used 
throughout  the  world,  the  STAR  offers  the  utmost  in  flex- 
ibility and  transmission  reliability. 

Specifications: 

•  Data  Rate:  0  to  300  baud 

•  Compatibility:  Bell  103  and  113;  CCITT 

•  Frequency  Stability:  ±0.3  percent.  Crystal  controlled 

•  Receiver  Sensitivity:  —50  dBm  ON.  -53  dBm  OFF 

•  Modulation:  Frequency  shift  keyed  (FSK) 

•  Carrier  Detect  Delay:  1.2  seconds  ON:  120  msec  OFF 

•  EIA  Terminal  Interface:  Compatible  with  RS  232 
specifications 

•  Teletype  Interface:  20  milliampere  current  loop 

•  Optional  Interfaces:  IEEE  488;  TTL;  TTY43 

•  International  (CCITT)  frequencies  available 

•  Switches:  Originate/Off/Answer;  Full  Duplex/Test/Half 
Duplex 

•  Indicators:  Transmit  Data,  Receive  Data,  Carrier 
Ready,  Test 

•  Power:  Supplied  by  24  VAC/150  MA  UL/CSA  listed  wall- 
mount  transformer.  Input  115  VAC,  2.5  watts.  (A  220 
VAC,  50  Hz  adaptor  is  available  upon  request.) 

•  Dimensions:  10"  x  4"  x  2" 

•  Weight:  1.74  lbs.  (3  lbs.  shipping  weight  including  AC 
adaptor.) 

•  Warranty:  Two  years  on  parts  and  labor,  excluding  the 
AC  adaptor  which  carries  the  manufacturers  warranty 


List  Our 

Price  Price 

$199.00  $149.00 

$199.00  $149.00 

$229.00  $219.00 

$395.00  $298.00 

$465.00  $398.00 


Part  No.  Description 

LIV-$TAR  RS232.TTL  Modem 

LIV-STAR20M  RS232,  20MACurrent  Loop 

LIV-STAR-V21  CCITT  European  Standard 

LIV-IEEE  IEEE  488  Standard 

LIV-IEEE-V21  IEEE  488,  CCITT  Standard 


CABLES 

Part  No.  Description  Price 

CND-RS2328F  RS232  8Cond  8  ft $19.95 

LIV-I2I  IEEE  to  IEEE  2  Meter $59.95 

LIV-I2PET  IEEE  to  Pet  2  Meter $59.95 


NOVATION  CAT  MODEM 


•  0-300  Baud 

•  Bell  103 

•  Answer,  Originate 

Part  No. 

NOV-CAT    


List  Price    Our  Price 
$198.00     $175.00 


Shipping  weight:  3  lbs. 


NOVATION 
D-CAT 

Data  Rate:  0-300  Baud.  Compatibility:  Bell  100  series. 
Interface:  EIS  RS232  C.  Modes:  Data.  Talk,  Monitor, 
Normal  and  Test.  Duplex:  Half,  Full.  Indicators:  Ready, 
Power 

Novation  proudly  announces  a  worthy  complement  to  the 
famous  CAT'".  It's  the  D-CAT.  The  first  directly  coupled 
modem  with  the  portability,  ease  of  use  and  low  cost  of  an 
acoustic.  D-CAT  is  the  only  direct  modem  that  is  FCC 
approved  for  handset  jack  connection  with  any  modular 
phone.  It  operates  with  either  single  or  multi-line  tele- 
phones without  the  need  of  adapters. 

Part  No.  List  Price  Our  Price 
NOV-DCAT $199  00     $195.00 

YOU  MUST  HAVE  A  PHONE 
WITH  MODULAR  CONNECTORS. 

Shipping  weight:  3  lbs. 


PRINTERS 


ANACOM  150 
DOT  MATRIX  PRINTER 

Features: 

•  150  Characters  per  second 

•  Bidirectional  printing,  logic  seeking 
•9x9  Dot  matrix 

•  Upper  and  lower  case  with  descenders 

■  Double  width  characters 

•  10  characters  per  inch  — horizontal 

•  6  or  8  lines  per  inch— vertical 

•  Uses  a  snap-in  cartridge  ribbon 

•  Adjustable  tractors 

•  Original  and  4  copies 

•  Paper  out  sensor 

•  90  day  factory  warranted 

■  Parallel  or  serial  interface 

Printers  List  Price     Our  Price 

ANA-150P  Parallel $1350.00    $1095.00 

ANA-150S  Serial $1350.00     $1095.00 

REPLACEMENT  PERSONALITY  MODULES 

ANA-PC  Parallel  Module $75.00 

ANA-SC  Serial  Module $75.00 

ANA-RIBBON  Cartridge  Nylon $15.00 

OPTIONS 
Options  must  be  ordered  with  printer 
ANA-600ELH600  Million 

Impact  Extended  Life  Head $150.00 

ANA-BELL  Programmable  Bell  Circuit $75.00 

ANA-240V50C  240VAC  50  Cycle  Power  Supply  .  $30.00 


Novation 


A  NEW  BREED  OF  MODULAR 
MODEMS  FROM  NOVATION 

NOV-4102D  Originate  Only $340.00 

NOV-4103B  Auto  Answer/Manual  Originate  . .  .$399.00 
NOV-4113B  Auto  Answer  Only .$365.00 

Novation  presents  the  first  fully  integrated  modern  system 
for  the  future. 

Their  new  line  of  300  baud  direct  connect  modems  are 
the  best  for  reliability,  economy  and  convenience. 

Novation's  direct  connect  modems  meet  all  require- 
ments for  the  FCC  ruling  on  Part  68,  eliminating  the  cost 
and  need  for  a  Bell  DAA  (data  access  arrangement).  It 
saves  even  more  through  a  simplified,  economical  installa- 
tion procedure,  using  a  modular  T-adapter— a  Novation 
excl  usive 

MODULATION:  FSK,  phase  coherent.  OPERATING 
MODE:  4102  Originate,  4103B  Auto  Answer/Manual  Origi- 
nate, 4113B  Auto  Answer  Only.  COMMUNICATION 
MODE:  Full,  Half  duplex.  PHONE  LINE  INTERFACE:  Di- 
rect-connect  per  FCC  Part  68.  Modular  Plug  mates  with 
standard  telephone  Modular  Jack  (USOC-RJ11C).  FCC 
registration  No.  AU492X-70157-PC-N.  Ringer  equivalence 
0.3A,  1.0B.  BELL  COMPATIBILITY:  4102D  103A,  4103B 
103A,  4113B  113B,  CARRIER  DETECT:  Sensitivity: 
-50dBm  On  delay:  150  ms  (  +  ,  -15ms)  Off  Delay:  50  ms 
(  +  ,  -5ms)  Noise  Rejection  OdBm  TRANSMITTER:  4102D 
On  Delay:  Coincident  with  carrier  detect— Off  Delay:  Coin- 
cident with  carrier  loss—Level  -9dBm  4103B  On  Delay: 
Originate:  Coincident  with  carrier  in  originate  Answer:  2.5 
sec  (  +  ,  -.5  sec)  after  automatic  answer.  Off  Delay:  Origi- 
nate: Coincident  with  carrier  loss.  Answer:  Coincident  with 
line  disconnect.  Level  -9dBm  (factory  fixed)  4113B  On 
Delay:  Originate:  Coincident  with  carrier  in  originate.  An- 
swer: 2.5  sec  (  +  ,  -.5  sec)  after  automatic  answer.  Off 
Delay:  Originate:  Coincident  with  carrier  loss.  Answer: 
Coincident  with  line  disconnect.  Level:  -9dBm  {factory 
fixed)  INTERNAL  SWITCH  OPTIONS:  4102D:  None 
4103B  Abort  Timer  1 8  Sec.  Abort  Timer:  6  sec.  Carrier  Loss 
Disconnect:  1  sec.  Disconnect  Enable:  On/Off.  Tone  Ring- 
er: On/Off.  Force  DTR:  On/Off  41138  Abort  Timer:  18  sec. 
Abort  Timer:  6  sec.  Carrier  Loss  Disconnect:  1  sec.  Dis- 
connect Enable:  On/Off.  Tone  Ringer:  On/Off.  Force  DTR: 
On/Off.  ADDITIONAL  FEATURES:  4102D:  None.  4103B: 
None,  4103B,  4113B:  Built  in  audio  ringer  with  level  adjust- 
ment. TERMINAL  INTERFACE:  EIA  RS232C  Outputs: 
Mark  (Off):  -8v,  Space  (On):  +  8V  Inputs  Mark  (Off):  -3  to 
-25V,  Space  (On):  +  to  +25V,  TTY,  20MA  active  current 
loop:  Mark:  20MA,  Space:  no  current.  Pin  Connects:  (Write 
for  additional  specifications)  POWER  REQUIREMENTS: 
117VAC  +.  -10%,  60Hz,  16  W  STANDARD  CABLES  AND 
ACCESSORIES:  UL  listed  wall-mount  24VAC  power 
transformer.  Plug-to-plug  6-foot  telephone  modular  cable. 
OPTIONAL  CABLES:  EIA  RS232C  6-foot,  8-wire  cable. 
TTY  6-foot,  4-wire  cable.  EIA  RS232C/TTY  Y-cable,  Mocf- 
ular  T-adapter  (connects  modem  and  telephone  to  phone 
line)  SIZE:  12"L,  5%"W,  2</4"H  WEIGHT:  1  Lb  SHIPPING 
WEIGHT:  3  Lbs 


WE  ACCEPT  VISA,  and  MASTER-CHARGE 


BYTE  November  1980 


80  —  15 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


TRS-80* 
MEMORY  EXPANSION  KITS 

You're  busy  writing  programs.  Suddenly,  in  the  middle  of 

a  line  you  run  out  of  memory  space! 

In  the  words  of  a  famous  San  Francisco  detective, 

"What  will  you  do?  What  will  YOU  do?'' 

Now  that  you  have  discovered  some  of  the  things  your 
TRS-80*  can  do  for  you  games,  business,  education-you 
want  to  do  more.  You  want  to  go  beyond  the  simple 
program,  but  when  you  type  in  the  PRINT  MEM  command, 
there  is  no  memory  space  left.  What  will  you  do? 

If  you're  smart,  you  will  do  what  thousands  of  other 
TRS-80*  owners  have  done.  You  will  dash  off  an  order  to 
Priority  1  Electronics  for  our  16K  Memory  Expansion  Kits. 
Don't  pay  a  penny  more  or  settle  for  anything  less.  Our 
Memory  Expansion  Kits  come  complete  with  eight  factory 
prime  16K  dynamic  RAM  chips,  easy  to  follow  step-by- 
step  instructions,  and  a  100%  guarantee.  What  more 
could  you  ask  for? 

TRS-16KEXP  This  kit  allows  you  to  expand  from  16K  to 
32K  or  from  32K  to  48K  in  your  Expansion  Interface 

$50.00 

TRS-16KEY  This  kit  includes  the  programming  jumpers 
necessary  to  expand  from  4K  to  16K  in  your  TRS-80* 

Keyboard    $53.00 

NOTE:  Apple  owners,  this  terrible  fate  can  happen  to  you, 
too.  Order  our  Apple  II**  Memory  Expansion  Kit. 
APL-16K $50.00 

THE  PRIORITY  1  ELECTRONICS 
MEMORY  EXPANSION  KIT 
Don't  program  without  it. 

•TRS-80  is  a  registered  trademark  of  Tandy  Corp. 
"Apple  II  is  a  registered  trademark  of  Apple  Computer 
Corp. 


MODEL  T2400AA 

The  Mini-8100S  is  an  S-100  size  card  providing  a  compact 
S-100  adapter  for  the  TRS-80,W  computer.  Designed  for 
those  who  possess  or  will  possess  an  S-100  mainframe.  It 
has  the  same  adapter  circuitry  as  the  Mini-8100,  but  plugs 
exactly  into  an  S-100  motherboard. 

Features: 

•  S-100  Bus  Interface 
■  Fully  Socketed 

•  Solder  Mask  and  Silk  Screened  Component  Legend 

•  Not  Recommended  for  Use  With  Expansion  Interface 

Ordering  Information:  List    Our  Price 

CCS-T2400AA  Mini-8100S $125.00     $112.61 


MODEL  T5400AA 

The  Mini-8100  opens  up  the  vast  world  of  S-100  products 
for  your  TRS-80™  Computer,  providing  an  S-100  Bus 
adapter/motherboard  for  memory  expansion  and  ex- 
tended I/O  capabilities.  This  combination  four-slot  moth- 
erboard and  S-100  interface  connects  to  the  TRS-80  or 
expansion  interface. 

Features: 

■  S-100  Bus  Interface 

•  4-Slot  Motherboard 

•  Fully  Socketed 

•  Solder  Mask  and  Silk  Screened  Component  Legend 


Ordering  Information: 
CCS-T5400AA  Mini-8100 

Assembled  &  Tested 


List    Our  Price 
$155.00  $139.60 


MODEL  T5416ABA 

The  8100  allows  a  Radio  Shack  TRS-80  computer  to  be 
interfaced  to  the  popular  S-100  Bus  for  memory  expansion 
and  extended  I/O  capabilities. 

The  8100  opens  up  a  whole  new  world  of  peripheral 
devices  to  the  TRS-80  owner.  For  example,  you  can  now 
easily  add  more  memory,  floppy  disc  systems,  PRCK 
boards,  printer  interfaces,  multi-purpose  I/O  boards,  AC 
device  controllers,  and  a  whole  host  of  other  varied 
peripherals. 

The  8100  has  its  own  built-in  6-slot  motherboard  which 
includes  our  unigue  card  guide  system  which  keeps  the 
boards  in  their  places. 

The  8100  is  designed  to  sit  on  a  table  top  next  to  your 
TRS-80  and  connects  to  it  via  a  ribbon  cable.  A  second 
TRS-80  connector  allows  other  TRS-80  devices  to  be 
connected  at  the  same  time. 

Not  only  do  you  get  an  S-100  bus  interface  and  mother- 
board, but  the  8100  has  more  on-board  options. 

Features: 

•  S-100  Bus  Interface 

•  6-Slot  Motherboard 

•  Accepts  8, 16K  or4K  Dynamic  RAMs 

•  Programmable  Baud  Rate  Selection 

•  Selectable  Even,  Odd  or  No  Parity 

t.  Serial  RS-232-C/20  ma  Current  Loop 
+•  Parallel  Input  and  Output 

•  Addressable  in  4K  Blocks  Via  Dip  Switches 

•  DCE  or  DTE  Jumper  Selectable 

•  5-,  6-,  7- or  8-Bit  Word  Length  with  1-,  t%-  or  2-Stop 
Bits 

Ordering  Information:  List    Our  Price 

CCS-T5416ABA  Complete  8100 

Assembled  &  Tested $375.00    $337.00 


NEWDOS/80 

A  NEW  ENHANCED  NEWDOS  FOR 
THE  TRS-80®  MODEL  1  FOR  THE  1980s 

Apparat  Inc.  announces  the  most  powerful  Disk  Operating 
System  for  the  TRS-80.S  It  has  been  designed  for  the 
sophisticated  user  and  professional  programmer  who  de- 
mands the  ultimate  in  disk  operating  systems. 

NEWDOS/80  is  not  meant  to  replace  the  present  version 
of  NEWDOS  2.1  which  satisfies  most  users,  but  is  a  care- 
fully planned  upward  enhancement,  which  significantly 
extends  NEWDOS  2. 1s  capabilities.  This  new  member  to 
the  Apparat  NEWDOS  family  is  upward  compatible  with 
present  NEWDOS  2.1  and  is  supplied  on  Diskette,  com- 
plete with  enhanced  NEWDOS+  utility  programs  and  doc- 
umentation. Some  of  the  NEWDOS/80  features  are: 
■  New  BASIC  commands  that  support  files  with  variable 
record  lengths  up  to  4095  Bytes  long. 

•  Mix  or  match  disk  drives.  Supports  and  track  count  from 
18  to  80.  Use  35,  40  or  77  track  5"  mini  disk  drives  or  8" 
disk  drives,  or  any  combination 

•  A  security  boot-up  for  BASIC  or  machine  code 
application  programs.  User  never  sees  "DOS  READY" 
or  "READY"  and  is  unable  to  "BREAK,"  clear  screen,  or 
issue  any  direct  BASIC  statement  including  "LIST." 

•  New  editing  commands  that  allow  program  lines  to  be 
deleted  from  one  location  and  moved  to  another  to  allow 
the  duplication  of  a  program  line  with  the  deletion  of  the 
original. 

•  Enhanced  and  powerful  RENUMBER  that  allows 
relocation  of  subroutines. 

•  Powerful  program  chaining,  &  enhanced  debug. 

•  Device  handling  for  routing  to  display  and  printer 
simultaneously. 

•  CDE  function;  simultaneous  striking  of  the  C,  D  and  E 
keys  will  allow  user  to  enter  a  mini-DOS  to  perform  some 
DOS  commands  without  disturbing  the  resident 
program. 

•  Upward  compatible  with  NEWDOS  2.1  andTRSDOS2.3 

•  Includes  Superzap  3.0  and  all  Apparat  2.1  utilities. 

Shipping  weight:  3  lbs. 

APP395 $1 49.00 

APP395M  NEWDOS/80  when  purchased 

with  any  Micropolis  Drive  on  the  same  order $100.00 


NEW  FROM  SAMS  BOOKS 
NOW  IN  TWO  VOLUMES 

TRS-80    ^^jfe 

INTERFACING   \  '\$P<f0> 


& 


\\^" 


B00K1 

AND 

BOOK  2 

SHIPPING  WEIGHT  1  LB. 


INTRODUCTION,  BOOK  I 

The  Radio  Shack  TRS-80  computer  provides  abundant 
computer  power  at  moderate  cost,  allowing  broad  ver- 
satility. Like  many  TRS-80  users,  you,  perhaps,  are  con- 
tent to  apply  your  computer  to  home,  business,  or  per- 
sonal uses  where  standard  peripherals,  such  as  key- 
board, display,  cassette  recorder,  etc.,  are  appropriate. 
Or,  maybe,  you  are  like  a  growing  number  of  others  who 
desire  to  have  their  TRS-80  actually  control  external 
devices,  sense  external  events,  and  perhaps,  even 
transfer  information  between  the  computer  and  pe- 
ripheral circuits  of  their  own  design.  If  you  are  among  the 
latter  group,  then  TRS-80  interfacing  will  introduce  you  to 
the  internally  generated  signals  available  and  show  you 
how  each  can  be  used  under  BASIC  language  program 
control.  The  book  is  for  the  reader  with  a  good  under- 
standing of  commands  in  Level  II  BASIC  and  would  be 
found  midway  between  the  beginning  computer  user  and 
the  advanced  programmer/hardware  designer.  190 
pages. 
SAM  21633    $8.95 

ADVANCED  TECHNIQUES,  BOOK  2 

This  book  will  introduce  you  to  some  of  the  advanced 
interfacing  techniques  that  will  allow  you  to  do  real  things 
with  your  Radio  Shack  TRS-80  computer.  You  will  find 
that  these  techniques  can  be  applied  to  computer  appli- 
cations in  your  home,  research  laboratory,  or  school 
laboratory.  You  will  learn  how  the  computer  can  be  used 
to  drive  high-current  and  high-voltage  loads,  to  generate 
voltage  and  current  signals,  and  to  measure  unknown 
voltages  and  currents.  Since  many  computers  are  being 
used  to  control  devices  that  are  located  some  distance 
from  the  central  processing  unit,  the  author  has  included 
a  chapter  on  serial  communication  and  remote  control. 
Remote  control  circuits  are  provided  that  allow  you  to 
control  Universal  Asynchronous  Receiver/Transmitter 
(UART)  chips,  analog-to-digital  converters,  digital-to- 
analog  converters,  and  other  devices  that  can  be  located 
from  several  feet  from  the  computer  to  several  thousand 
feet  from  it. 
SAM  21739    $9-95 


MICROPOLIS  DISK  DRIVES 
FOR  THE  TRS-80  COMPUTER 

•  Plug-In  Compatible  with  the  TRS-80  Disk  Drive 
■  35  Tracks 

•  Faster  Than  a  Speeding  Bullet  (30ms) 

•  Available  in  77  Track 

•  Soft  Sector 

•  Metallic  Gray  and  Black  Cabinet 

•  Power  Supply,  Fuse,  and  Line  Cord 

•  Single-  or  Dual-Drive  Configuration 

LIST  OUR 

SINGLE  DRIVES  PRICE  PRICE 

MCP10271  35TRACK  $  545.00  CALL 

MCP 10272  77  TRACK  $  645.00  $  575.00 

DUAL  DRIVES 
MCP10371               35TRACK  S1 195-00  CALL 

MCP  1 0372 77  TRACK S1395.00        _  $1195.00 

AS  FEATURED  IN  TRS-80  INTERFACING 


Interface  your  TRS-80  to 

the  "real  world" 
the  faster  and  easier  way. 


EL 


The  Jumper.  A  24"  40-conductor  flat  ribbon  cable  as- 
sembly with  a  socket  connector  on  one  end,  a  card-edge 
connector  on  the  other.  Its  preassembled  and  every  line 
is  pretested. 
APP-924150-24 $11.95 


The  Header.  Copper  alloy  770  for  instant  plug-in  access 

to  the  PC  board. 

APP-923875-R    $3.49 


The  Solderless  Breadboard.  Its  our  famous    super- 
strip"  for  unlimited  freedom  in  the  layout  and  implementa- 
tion of  your  circuits. 
APP-923252-R    $17.00 


THE  VISTA  V-80 
DISK  DRIVE  SYSTEM 

•  23%  more  storage 
capacity  than  TRS-80 

•  120  day  warranty 

•  40  track  patch  at 
NO  CHARGE 


THE  VISTA  V80: 

widen  the  ability  of  your  TRS-80 

The  Vista  V80Mini  Disk  System  is  the  perfect  way  to  widen 
the  capabilities  of  your  TRS-80IM  Micro-computer.  Quickly 
and  inexpensively.  Our  $395  price  tag  is  about  $100  less 
than  the  Radio  Shack  equivalent.  Our  delivery  time  is 
immediate.  And  our  system  is  fully  interchangeable.  That's 
just  the  start. 

It  will  give  you  23%  more  storage  capacity  by  increas- 
ing useable  storage  from  55,000  to  65,000  bytes  per  drive 
with  our  new  software  patch. 

It  can  work  8  times  faster  than  the  TRS-80  Mini-Disk 
system,  because  track-to-track  access  is  5ms  versus 
40ms  for  the  TRS-80.  You  can  realize  this  added  speed 
once  the  new  double  disk  expansion  interface  is  available 
without  expensive  modification  of  the  existing  unit. 

It  has  a  better  warranty  than  any  comparable  unit 
warranty  available— a  full  120  days  on  all  parts  and  ser- 
vice. When  you  consider  how  much  more  goes  into  the 
Vista  V80,  that  shows  a  lot  of  faith  in  our  product. 

A  full  3  amp  power  supply  means  you  have  2v2  times 
the  power  necessary  to  operate  the  V80,  and  full  ventila- 
tion insures  that  there  will  be  no  problems  due  to 
overheating. 

The  Vista  V80  Mini  Disk  System  requires  Level  II  Basic 
with  16K  RAM  Expansion  Interface  (it  operates  from  the 
Radio  Shack  interface  system).  It  comes  complete  with  a 
dependable  MPI  Minifloppy  disk  drive,  power  supply,  reg- 
ulator board  and  vented  case.  It's  shipped  to  you  ready  to 
run  — simply  take  it  out  of  the  box  and  plug  it  in.  You're  in 
business.  From  the  company  that  means  business— Vista 
Computer  Company. 

y  K      y  DISKETTES 

Part  No.  Sectoring  Application  Box  of  10 

VRB-M0  525-01        Soft  Sector        TRS-80,  Apple     $     29.95 

VIS-V-80  Single  drive  system $395.00 

VIS-V-80-2  Two  drive  system   $770.00 

VIS-V-80-4  Four  drive  system $1450.00 

PRI-34CEEE-2  Two  drive  cable    $29.95 

PRI-34CEEE-4  Four  drive  cable $39.95 

Four  Drive  and  Two  Drive  Systems  come 
complete  with  Data  Cable. 


80  —  16 


BYTE  November  1980 


WE  ACCEPT  VISA,  and  MASTER-CHARGE 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


PARALLEL  INTERFACE 

•  Two  bi-direction  8  bit  buses  for  interface  to  periferals 

•  Two  programmable  control  registers 

•  Two  programmable  data  direction  registers 

•  Four  individually  controlled  interrupt  input  lines;  two 
useable  as  peripheral  control  outputs 

•  Handshake  control  logic  for  input  and  output  peripheral 
operation 

•  High  impedance  3  state  and  direct  transistor  drive 
peripheral  lines 

•  Programmable  interrupts 

•  CMOS  drive  capability  on  side 
A  peripheral  lines 

•  2  TTL  drive  capability  on  all  A  and  B  side  buffers 

•  Power  down  ROM 

•  Supports  interrupt  daisy  chain 

•  Allows  DMA  daisy  chain 

•  256  bytes  firmware  (ROM)  or  softwares  (RAM)  space 
available 

List     Our  Price 
CCS-7720A  Assembled 

(with  cable  and  Software)  1  LB $119.95    $107.95 

CCS-7325A  Cable  Assembly, 

25  P"D""  to  dual  13P  header $24.95 

CCS-7620A  A  Firmware  ROM,  General  purpose  .  .$24.95 

CENTRONICS 
PARALLEL  INTERFACE 

The  Model  7728  interfaces  high-speed  Centronics-type 
parallel  interface  printers  to  the  Apple  II*  computer.  The 
7728  provides  eight-bit  parallel  data  output  bus,  four-bit 
status  input,  Data  Strobe  and  Acknowledge  handshake 
signals,  and  printer  Reset  signal  to  ensure  compatibility 
with  a  wide  selection  of  printers. 

Driver  firmware  is  provided  in  an  on-board  256-byte 
ROM. 

•  Pin-for-pin  compatibility  with  Centronics  printers 

•  Handshaking  provided  with  Data  Strobe  and 
Acknowledge  signals 

•  ASCII  character  output  controlled  by  on-board  ROM 

•  Eight-bit  parallel  output  bus 

•  Four-bit  status  input 

•  Printer  Reset  signal 

•  Compatibility  with  standard  Apple  II  printer  command 

•  Flexible  character/line  format 

•  Auto  line  feed  and  video  echo  are  under  software  control 

•  Interrupt  daisy  chain  supported  with  arbitration  logic 

•  DMA  daisy  chain  pass-through  provided 

•  Software-programmable  interrupts 

•  Jumper-selectable  IRQ  signal 

•  Berg  plug  jumpers  provided  for  all  jumper-selectable 
features 

List    Our  Price 

CCS7728  Assembled $119.95    $107.95 

CCS-7340A  Cable  for  the  Integral  Data 

IDS-440  Paper  Tiger   Call 

CCS-7379A  Cable  for  Centronics  printers,  the 

Okidata  Microline  80,  or  the  Microtek  MT-88T $31.95 

CCS-7388A  Cable  for  the  MPI  88T $29.95 

CCS-7001A  RAM  pack  for  ROM  replacement $19.95 

CCS-7601A  Unburned  ROM  pack $19.95 

SYNCHRONOUS 
SERIAL  INTERFACE 

•  Conforms  to  RS-232-C  (configuration  A  thru  E) 

•  Supports  half  or  full  duplex  operation 

•  DTE  type  configuration 

•  Failsafe  RS-232-C  operation 

.  14  STD  CLK  rates  50-19. 2K  BAUD  plus  EXT  CLK 

•  BAUD  rates  dip  switch  selectable 

•  All  BAUD  rates  crystal  controlled 

•  Programmable  interrupts  from  transmitter,  receiver,  and 
error  detection  logic 

•  Programmable  SYNC  code  register 

•  Standard  synchronous  signaling  rate  per  RS-269/ANSI 
X3. 1-1975 

•  Peripheral/modem  control  functions 

•  Three  bytes  of  fifo  buffering  on  both  transmit  and 
receive  date 

•  7,  8,  or  9  bit  transmission 

•  Optional  odd,  even,  or  no  parity  bit 

•  Parity,  overrun,  and  overflow  status  checks 

•  Power  down  prom 

•  256  bytes  firmware  (ROM)  or  software  (RAM)  space 
available 

•  Supports  interrupt  daisy  chain 

•  Allows  DMA  daisy  chain 

List    Our  Price 
CCS-7712A  Assembled 

(with  cable  &  software)  1  LB $1 79.95     $159.00 

CCS-7325A  Cable  Assembly, 

25P  "D"  to  dual  BP  header $24.95 

CCS-7001A  RAM  (for  ROM  replacement)    $19.95 

CCS-7601A  ROM  (unburned.  empty)  $19.95 

CCS-7610A  Firmware  ROM  General  Purpose   .  .  .  $24.95 

APPLE  II®  EXTENDER  BOARD 

A  handy  tool  when  debugging  or  testing  modules  in  the 
APPLE  II*  computer. 

VCCS-7520A  Assembled  $24.95 


APPLE 
PERIPHERALS 


arithmetic  Processor 

•  Based  on  AMD  AM9511  device 

•  Fixed  point  16  and  32  bit  operation 

•  Floating  point  32  bit  operation 

•  Binary  data  formats 

•  Add,  subtract,  multiply,  and  divide 

•  Trigonometric  and  inverse  trignometric  functions 

•  Square  roots,  logarithms,  exponentiation 

•  Float  to  fixed  and  fixed  to  float  conversions 

•  Stack  oriented  operand  storage 

•  Programmed  I/O  data  transfer 

•  End  signal  selectable  interrupt 

•  Supports  interrupt  daisy  chain 

•  Allows  DMA  daisy  chain 

•  Powered  down  ROM 

•  256  Bytes  firmware  (ROM  or  software  (RAM)  space 
available 

List    Our  Price 

CCS-7811B  For  use  with  Apple  II    $399.95    $359.00 

CCS-7001A  RAM  (for  ROM  replacement)   $19.95 

CCS-7601A  ROM  (unburned,  empty) $19.95 

CCS-7811C  For  use  with  Apple  II  plus   $359.00 


ASYNCHRONOUS 
SERIAL  INTERFACE 

•  Parity,  overrun,  and  framing  error  checks 

•  Optional  divide  by  16  clock  mode 

•  False  start  bit  detection 

•  Software  programmable  interrupts 

•  Data  double  buffered 

•  One  or  two  stop  bit  operation 

•  Power  down  PROM 

•  256  bytes  firmware  (ROM)  or  software  (RAM)  space 
available 

•  Supports  interrupt  daisy  chain 

•  Allows  DMA  daisy  chain 

•  134.5  BAUD.available  for  selectric  interface 

•  Conforms  to  RS-232-C  (configuration  A  thru  E) 
■  Supports  half  or  full  duplex  operation 

•  DCR  type  interface 

•  Failsafe  RS-232-C  operation 

.  14  STD  CLK  rates  50-19. 2K  BAUD  plus  EXT  CLK 

•  BAUD  rates  dip  switch  selectable 

•  All  BAUD  rates  crystal  controlled  except  EXT 

•  8  and  9  bit  transmission 

•  Optional  even,  odd,  and  no  parity  bit 

•  Programmable  control  register  L|S(    Qur  pnce 
CCS-7710A  Assembled 

(with  cable  &  software)  1  LB $159.95     $159.00 

CCS-7325A  Cable  assembly, 

25P  "D"  to  dual  13P  header $24.95 

CCS-7001A  RAM  (for  ROM  replacement)   $19.95 

CCS-7601  ROM  (unburned,  empty)    $19.95 

CCS-7610A  Firmware  ROM  General  Purpose   . .  .  .$24.95 


GPIB  INTERFACE 

With  the  Model  7490  General  Purpose  Instrument  Bus 

Interface,  your  Apple  II*'  computer  can  operate  with  instru- 
ments which  fall  under  the  IEEE  488-1978  communication 
bus  standards.  Up  to  fifteen  inter-connected  controllers, 
talkers,  and/or  listeners  can  be  interfaced  on  the  bus. 
Such  devices  include  counters,  signal  generators,  digital 
multimeters,  and  color  graphics  output  devices. 

•  Controller/talker/listener  functions  of  IEEE  488 
standards  implemented 

•  Capability  of  handling  up  to  15  interconnected  devices 
on  the  bus 

■  Five  bus  management  lines  and  three  data-byte-transfer 
lines  provided 

•  Full  buffering  of  all  16  signal  lines 

•  Bi-directional  8-bit  data  bus 

•  An  on-board  parallel  interface  adapter  which  contains 
control,  data  direction,  and  data  output  registers  for 
reliable  operation 

•  Data  transferring  performed  asynchronously 

•  Full  handshaking  with  peripherals 

•  DMA  daisy  chain  pass-through  support 

•  Allowance  for  interrupt  daisy  chain 

•  Software-programmable  interrupts 

•  Operation  in  a  paging  mode  with  eight  256-byte  pages  of 
firmware 

■  Controller  firmware  stored  in  a  2K  x  8-bit  EPROM 
(preprogrammed  at  the  factory) 

■  3  foot  GPIB-compatible  cable  provided 

List    Our  Price 
CCS-7490A  Assembled $300.00     $269.00 

APPLE  MEMORY  EXPANSION  KITS 
4116's  RAMS 

from  Leading  Manufacturers.  1,000'sof  sets  sold!  100% 
guaranteed.  (16K  x  1  200/250ns) 

APL-16K  8  for  $50.00 


PROGRAMMABLE 
TIMER  MODULE 

•  Flexible  external  interface  patch  area  for  custom 
interface  applications 

•  Selectable  prescaler  on  timer  3  capable  of  4mhz  input 

•  Programmable  interrupts 

•  Readable  down  counter  indicates  counts  to  go 
to  time-out 

•  Selectable  gating  for  frequency  or  pulse  width 
comparison 

•  Three  asynchronous  external  clock  and  gate/trigger 
inputs  internally  synchronized 

•  Three  maskable  outputs  to  patch  area 

•  Power  down  ROM 

•  Supports  interrupt  daisy  chain 

•  Allows  DMA  daisy  chain 

•  256  byte  firmware  (ROM)  or  software  (RAM) 
space  available 

List    Our  Price 

CCS-7440A  Assembled  1  LB   $114.95    $103.00 

CCS-7001A  RAM  (for  ROM  replacement)   $19.95 

CCS-7601A  ROM  (Unburned,  empty) $19.95 

PROM  MODULE 

The  7114A  PROM  MODULE  permits  the  addition  or 
replacement  of  the  Apple  II  firmware  without  the  physical 
removal  of  the  Appie  II  ROMS.  This  allows  soft- 
ware/firmware replacement,  change,  and/or  patch  to  be 
made  on  a  ROM  or  BYTE  BASIS.  An  on-board  enab- 
le/disable toggle  switch  is  also  availale. 

•  BYTE  oriented  program  overlay 

•  Selectable  prom  overlay 

•  Power  down  of  PROMS 

•  14K  PROM  space  available 

•  Uses  +5  volt  2716  type  proms 

•  Allows  use  of  DMA/interrupt  daisy  chains 
CCS-7114A  Assembled  List     Our  Price 
(without  PROMS)  1  LB $79.95     $75.00 

33/4  DIGIT  BCD 
A/D  CONVERTER 

The  7470  allows  conversion  of  a  DC  voltage  to  a  BCD 
number  for  computer  monitoring  and  analysis.  Typical 
inputs  would  be  DC  inputs  from  temperature  or  pressure 
transducers. 

•  Selectable  interrupt  on  end  of  conversion 

•  200US  per  conversion 
.  -4  to  +4  VDCfull  scale 

•  Plus  or  minus  .05%  non-linearity 

•  Plus  or  minus  1  count  quantization 

•  Corrective  offset  error 

•  Temperature  coefficient  adjustment 

•  Calibration  adjustment 

•  Input  offset  adjustment 

•  Floating  inputs 

•  Overange  and  sign  indicators 

•  Input  filter 

•  Power  down  ROM 

•  Supports  interrupt  daisy  chain 

•  Allows  DMA  daisy  chain 

•  256  bytefirmware  (ROM)  or  software  (RAM)  SDace 
available  List     Our  Price 

CCS-7470A  Assembled  and 

Calibrated  1  LB $111.95  $99.95 

CCS-7001A  RAM  $19.95 CCS-7601  ROM  $19.95 

CALENDAR/ CLOCK 
MODULE 

The  Model  7424  Calendar/Clock  Module  for  the  Apple 
II*  computer  provides  accurate  real  time  counting  for  a 
wide  variety  of  applications.  The  7424  can  be  software- 
programmed  for  either  a  12-hour  or  24-hour  format,  and 
automatically  adjusts  February  to  29  days  for  leap  years. 
Each  decimal  digit  of  data  is  separately  addressed,  allow- 
ing the  user  complete  freedom  of  data  format.  An  optional 
back-up  battery  maintains  accurate  time  counting  when 
the  Apple  is  powered  down  or  during  power  outages.  To 
prevent  accidental  setting  of  the  clock,  the  time-setting 
signal  to  the  clock  can  be  jumper-disabled. 

•  MSM5832  Clock  to  count  seconds,  minutes,  hours,  days 
of  week  and  month,  months,  and  years 

•  Berg  plug  jumpers  provided  for  all  user-selected 
features 

•  Optional  back-up  battery  provided  for  maintaining  time 
during  power-down  of  the  Apple  or  during  power  outage 

•  12  hour  or  24  hour  format 

■  Automatic  adjustment  of  February  to  29  days  for  leap 
years 

•  Jumper-enabled  time  setting  to  prevent  accidental 
timing  setting 

•  BASIC  program  listing  provided  for  setting  time,  day, 
month,  and  year 

•  Interrupt  daisy  chain  arbitration 

•  DMA  daisy  chain  pass-through 

•  Jumper-selectable  IRQ  generation  at  hour,  minute, 
second,  or  millisecond  intervals 

•  Low-power  Schottky  devices 

•  Jumper-selectable  256-byte  ROM  or  RAM  logic 

•  3  jumper-selectable  CCS  drivers  and  space  for  user- 
burned  driver  on  1K  EPROM 

List    Our  Price 
CCS-7424A  Assembled  $125.00  $109.95 


ORDER  TOLL  FREE  (800)  423-5633 


BYTE  November  1980 


80  —  17 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


BRAND 


If  it's  worth  remembering, 

it's  worth  Scotch 
Data  Recording  Products. 


\ferbatim 

™  .TnmrxiDle  Tatjvft;  storage  rrtrXi 


DISKETTES 


Sides/ 
Density 


Sectoring 


List 

Price 

Box  of  10 


Price 
Box  of  10 


MMM-740-OP 

MMM-740/2-OP 
MMM  740-32P 
MMM-740/2-32P 
MMM-741-0 

MMM -743-0 


MMM-744-OK 


MMM-744-10K 

MMM-744-16K 


1/single 
2/single 
1/single 
2/single 
1/double 
2/double 
(2  head) 

1/single 

1/single 
1/single 


Soft-IBM 
Soft-IBM 
32-ShugartB01 
32-Shugart801 
Soft-Shugart  Dbl 

Soft-IBM 

5" 
Soft-Shugart 
SA400(TRS-80) 
Soft/10  SA400 
Soft/1 6  Micropolis 


$50.00 
$88.00 
$50.00 
$88.00 
$70.00 

$100.00 


$50.00 
$50.00 
$50.00 


$39.95 
$75.00 
$39.95 
$75.00 
$59.00 

$88.00 


$39.95 
$39.95 
$39.95 


VRB- 
VRB- 

VRB 
VRB 
VRB- 
VRB- 
VRB- 
VRB 
VRB 
VRB- 
VRB 
VRB- 


5V4  DISKETTES 

Sectoring  Application  #  of  Heads       Box  of  10 

MD  525-01      Soft  Sector  TRS-80  Apple 

MD  525-10     Hard  1 0  Sector  North  Star 

MD  525-1 6     Hard  16  Sector  Micropolis 

MD  540-01      Soft  Sector  40  Track  Cert. 

M  D  540-1 0     Hard  1 0  Sector  40  Track  Cert. 

MD  540-1 6     Hard  16  Sector  40 Track  Cert. 

MD  550-01      Soft  Sector  40  Track  Cert. 

MD550-10     HardlOSector  40  Track  Cert. 

MD  550-16     Hard  16  Sector  40  Track  Cert. 

MD  577-01      Soft  Sector  77  Track  Cert. 

MD577-10     HardlOSector  77TrackCert. 

MD577-16     Hard16Sector  77TrackCert 

VRB-MD  577  Series  comes  with  reinforced  hub  ring  mounted 


1 

$29.95 

1 

$29.95 

1 

$29.95 

1 

$38.95 

1 

$38.95 

1 

$38.95 

2 

$55.00 

2 

$55.00 

2 

$55.00 

1 

$48.00 

1 

$48.00 

1 

$48.00 

VRB-FD32-1000 
VRB-FD34-1000 

VRB-FD32-2000 
VRB-FD34-2000 


Hard  Sector 
Soft  Sector 
Hard  Sector 
Soft  Sector 


8"  DISKETTES 

Shugart801R 
IBM  3740 
Flippy 
Flippy 


$37.00 
$37.00 
$66.00 
$66.00 


BE  SURE  TO  ORDER  YOUR  KASSETTE/10 
LIBRARY  CASE  BELOW 


ALL  VERBATIM  DISKETTES  ARE  DOUBLE  DENSITY 
CERTIFIED 


HOUSINGS  FOR 
MAGNETIC  MEDIA 


ttc 


•  Capacity:  50  diskettes 

•  Vinyl  dust  cover 

•  5  pressboard  dividers 
■  3  metal  dividers 

•  Will  cross-file  in  a  standard 
letter-size  file  drawer 


Shipping  weight:  MM-1  5  lbs.        FM-2  9  lbs. 
MMM-MM1  (for  5VV  diskettes)  $28.50 

MMM-FM-2  (for  8"  diskettes)  $37.00 


3M  CRASHGUARD  14"  HARD  DISKS 

SOMETHING  YOU  CAN  DEPEND  ON 

Each  "Scotch"  brand  top  loading  and  front  loading  cart- 
ridge is  coated  with  CRASHGUARD"— 3Ms  exclusive  pro- 
tective disk  coating  which  guards  against  oxide  build-up  on 
the  read/write  heads  and  the  hazards  of  head-to-disk 
interference.  You  can  depend  on  CRASHGUARD  to  pro- 
tect you  from  data  checks  (phantom  errors),  damaged 
heads,  computer  downtime  and  data  loss. 
Shipping  weight:  10  lbs 
Part  No. Sectoring        Application Price 


MMM-910-12 
MMM-910-16 
MMM-910-24 
MMM-920-12 
MMM-920-24 
MMM-9331-48 


12  Sector 
16  Sector 
24  Sector 
12  Sector 
24  Sector 
48  Sector 


DEC  PDP-11 

DECPDP-8 

TI980 

CDC  HAWK 

Microdata2754 

Datapoint10/MB 


$100.00 
$100.00 
$100.00 
$120.00 
$120.00 
$160.00 


THE  PROTECTOR. 

•  Capacity:  50  Diskettes 

•  Sizes  for  8"  and  5V.»"  Diskettes 

•  Rugged,  smoked  plexiglass  construction 

•  Helps  keep  dust,  dirt  and  grime  from  contaminating 
valuable  diskettes 

Shipping  Weight:  VRBPRT5  3  lbs.         VRBPRT8  5  lbs. 


Part  Number 

VRB-PRT5 

VRB-PRT8 


Description 
For  5V4"  Diskettes 
For  8" 


Price 
$29.95 
$39.95 


DON'T  LET  DUST  OR  SCRATCHES 
DIRTY  YOUR  DATA! 


PREVENT  THE  USE  OF  DAMAGED  DISK 
CARTRIDGES  WITH 

SHOCKWATCH 

Media  equipped  with  Shockwatch  give  an  immediate 
signal  that  a  shock  great  enough  to  cause  a  malfunction 
has  been  experienced. 

The  dramatic  change  from  clear  to  vivid  red  attracts  the 
attention  of  all  operating  personnel  and  assures  its  re- 
moval from  service  before  significant  financial  loss. 

The  Shockwatch  impact  detector  is  a  length  of  precision- 
bore  capillary  tubing,  containing  a  precise  thread  of  red 
liquid.  Mechanical  shock  or  acceleration  exceeding  a  pre- 
determined level  disrupts  the  relationship  between  the 
liquid  and  the  tube.  Immediately,  vivid  red  liquid  fills  the 
tube.  This  simple  change  in  appearance,  from  clear  to 
brilliant  red,  is  a  positive  indicator  that  the  cartridge  or  pack 
has  received  a  shock  sufficient  to  cause  probable  damage. 

MMM-SWCART $8.95 

Shipping  weight:  1  lb. 

HARDHOLE 

HUB 

REINFORCING 

DISK 
PROTECTORS 

•  Protects  disks  and  diskettes  from  wear! 

•  Repairs  damaged  disks! 

Now  you  can  save  those  "ruined"  disks  with  simple 
insertion  of  our  DISK  PROTECTOR!  Inserting  a  protector 
on  a  new  disk  will  increase  its  life  times  over!  Easy  to 
install,  just  slip  a  protector  ring  onto  the  precision  tool,  then 
slip  on  the  disk!  No  glueing,  no  drying  time,  no  heat!  One 
tool  lasts  indefinitly,  each  disk  requires  one  protector  ring. 

Part  No.  Description  Price 

VRB  HDHL5  5V  Diskette  Protector  Ring  (pkg.  50)  $3.50 

VRB  HDHL5A  5V4"  Applicator  Tool    $5.00 

VRB  HDHL8  8"  Diskette  Protector  Rings  (pkg.  50)  .$7.00 

VRD  HDHL8A  8"  Applicator  Tool   $10.00 

Shipping  Weight:  4  oz. 


KASETTE/10 

LIBRARY  CASE 

Shipping  Weight:  8"  2  lbs. 
5V>"  1  lb. 


Part  Number 


Color 


Price 


MMM-KS10GY 
MMM-KS10BK 
MMM-KS10BU 
MMM-KS10BG 
MMM-KM10GY 
MMM-KM10BK 
MMM-KM10BU 
MMM-KM10BG 


B" 
8" 
8" 
8" 

5 'A" 
5'A" 

5'/4" 
5'/4" 


Grey 
Black 
Blue 
Beige 
Grey 
Black 
Blue 
Beiqe 


$4.50 
$4.50 
$4.50 
$4.50 
$4.25 
$4.25 
$4.25 
$4.25 


PREVENT  HEAD  CRASHES 

A  one  year  supply  of  disk  cleaning  supplies  cost 
$29.95— What  is  a  diskette  with  one  of  your  programs 
worth? 


Diskette  drive  heads,  like  your  cassette  heads,  need 
periodic  mantenance  to  assure  efficient  and  error-free 
operation.  Unlike  other  peripheral  devices,  the  read/write 
head(s)  on  diskette  drives  are  extremely  difficult  to  clean 
without  partially  disassembling  the  drive.  The  unique  con- 
cept of  the  diskette  head  cleaning  kit  allows  the  user  to 
clean  the  drive  heads  without  diassembly  in  jus!  minutes. 
Available  for  8"  or51/4",  both  single  and  double  sided  disk 
drives.  Kit  contains  2  cleaning  diskettes,  a  4  oz.  bottle  of 
CS-85  cleaning  solution  and  easy-pour  dispenser.  Wt.  12 
oz.  A  1  year  supply  if  you  clean  your  disk  once  a  week. 

Catalog  No.  Description 

VRB-FD088"  Disk  Drive  Cleaning  Kit $29.95 

VRB-FD05  BH"  Disk  Drive  Cleaning  Kit $29.95 


3M  SCOTCH®  BRAND  PERSONAL 
COMPUTING  TAPE  WITH  LEADER 

MMM-PCC-10  10  Minute $1.30 

MMM-PCC-20  20  Minute    $1.40 

MMM-PCC-30  30  Minute    $1.50 


80  —  18 


BYTE  November  1980 


PLEASE  ORDER  BY  PART  NUMBER 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


PART  NO. 


INS  B08AN 

DPB212N 

DP82I4N 

DP82I6N 

DP8224N 

DP8224-4N 

0P8226N 

DPB228N 

DP8238N 

INS8250N 

INS825IN 

INS8253N 

INS8255N 

INS8257N 

INS8259N 


PART  NO. 


Z80A 

Z80PI0 

Z80API0 

Z80CTC 

Z80ACTC 

Z800MA 

Z80A0MA 

Z80SIOO 

Z80ASI00 

Z80SI0I 

Z80ASI0I 

Z80SI02 

Z80ASI02 


PART  NO. 


6502 

6502A 

6520 

6522 

6530002 

6530-003 

6530-004 

6530-005 

6532M 

655 1 M 


PART  NO. 


MC6800P 

MC6802P 

MC6808P 

MC6809P 

MC6821P 

MC6828P 

MC6840P 

MC6845P 

MC6847P 

MC6850P 

MC6852P 

MC6854P 

MC6860P 

MC6862P 

MC6875L 

MC66710P 

MC66750P 


STOCK 
NUMBER 


NI0T-B0412 
M0TB0421 
M0T-B0422 
M0T-B0427 
MOT-B0428 
M0T-B0435 
M0T-B0436 
M0T-B0437 
MOT-B0438 
M0T-B0439 
MOT-B0440 
M0TB0441 
M0T-CTG12 


8080  SERIES 


DESCRIPTION 


8  BIT  CPU 
8  BIT  I/O  PORT 

PRIORITY  INTERUPT  CONTROL 
BI-DIRECTIONAL  BUS  DRIVER 
CLOCK  GEN  AND  DRIVER  (2MHz) 
CLOCK  GEN  AND  DRIVER  (4MHz) 
INV  BI-DIRECTIONAL  BUS  DRIVER 
SYSTEM  CONTROLLER  &  BUS  DRIVER 
SYSTEM  CONTROLLER  &  BUS  DRIVER 
ASYNCHCOMM  ELEMENT 
PROGRAMMABLE  COMM  INT. 
PROGRAMMABLE  INTERNAL  TIMER 
PROG.  PERIPHERAL  INTERFACE 
PROG.  DMA  CONTROLLER 
PROG.  INTERUPT  CONTROLLER 


Z80  SERIES 


DESCRIPTION 


8BITCPU(4MHz) 
PARALLEL  INTERFACE  (2.5MHz) 
PARALLEL  INTERFACE  (4MHz) 
CTC  (2MHz) 
CTC  (4MHz) 

DMA  CONTROLLER  (2MHz) 
DMA  CONTROLLER  (4MHz) 
SERIAL  INTERFACE  (2MHz) 
SERIAL  INTERFACE  (4MHz) 
SERIAL  INTERFACE  (2MHz) 
SERIAL  INTERFACE  (4MHz) 
SERIAL  INTERFACE  (2MHz) 
SERIAL  INTERFACE  (4MHz) 


6502  SERIES 


DESCRIPTION 


8  BIT  CPU 

8  BIT  CPU 

PIA 

PIA 

RAM/ROM  I/O  TIMER 

RAM/ROM  I/O  TIMER 

TIM.  RAM/ROM 

RAM/ROM  I/O  TIMER 

RAM/ROM  I/O  TIMER 


6800  SERIES 


DESCRIPTION 


8  BIT  CPU 

MPU,  CLK,  RAM 

MPU.  CLK 

MICROPROCESSOR 

PIA 

PRIOR.  INTERUPT  ADAPT. 

PTM 

CRT  CONTROLLER 

COLOR  VIDEO  DISPLAY  GEN. 

ASYNCH.  COMM.  INT.  ADAPT. 

SYNCH  SER.  DATA  ADAPT. 

ADVANCED  DATA  LINK  CONT. 

0-600  BPS  MODEM 

0-2400  BPS  MODEM 

MPU  CLOCK  GEN. 

CHAR  GEN  ASCII  SHFTD  W/GRK 

CHAR.  GEN  ALPHA.  NUM.  CTRL  CHAR 

MOTOROLA,  Semiconductors 
BOOKS  AND  LITERATURE 

TITLE 


CMOS 

VOLT  REG. 

LO  POWER  SCHOTTKY 

M6800  REF.  MANUAL 

UNDERSTAND  MICRO 

POWER  DATA 

MICRO  DATA  LIB 

BASIC  MICRO  AND  THE  M68O0 

PROG.  THE  M6800  MICRO 

BASIC  l/CENGR  AND  THE  6800 

LINEAR  INTERFACE 

LINEAR  CIRCUIT 

MASTER  SEL.  GUIDE 


PRICE 


S6.50 
S2.95 
S5.25 
$2.95 
$3.25 
$9.95 
$3.50 
$5.55 
$5.55 

$15.00 
$7.50 

$17.95 
$6.80 

$16.45 

$18.00 


PRICE 


$14.95 

$9.95 
$14.95 

$9.95 
$13.95 
$39.95 
$45.00 
$56.00 
$59.95 
$56.00 
$59.95 
$56.00 
$59.95 


PRICE 


$12.95 
$18.95 
$8.95 
$10.95 
$21.95 
$21.95 
$21.95 
$21.95 
$21.95 
$21.95 


PRICE 


$11.95 
$17.95 

$9.95 
$34.95 

$5.95 
$14.95 
$14.95 
$31.00 
$14.95 

$5.41 

$5.79 
$24.95 
$10.89 
$12.00 

$7,40 
SI  2.50 
$12.50 


PRICE 


$5.95 

$3.95 
$3.95 
$3.95 
$3.95 
$6.50 
$8.95 

$15.95 
$8.95 

$29.95 
$5.95 
$6.50 
$3.95 


OPTO-ISOLATORS 

VISO  ICO(MA)  VCEO 


4N27 

NPN 

1500V 

2.0 

30V 

$1.10 

$  .92 

4N28 

NPN 

500V 

2.0 

30V 

$1.10 

$.92 

4N30 

NDL 

1500V 

30 

30V 

$1.40 

$7.10 

4N31 

NDL 

1500  V 

10 

30V 

$1.25 

$1.00 

ER 

PRODUCTS 

(U\  MOTOROLA 

xZy  Semiconductors 

STATIC  RAMS 

PART  NO. 

DESCRIPTION                                             1-7         8-24 

25-99 

100* 

2I02AN-L 

1024x1  450NS  LP                                 $1.60       $1.40 

$1.15 

$1.00 

2102AN-2L 

1024  x  1  250NS  LP                                 $1.75       $1.60 

$1.25 

$1.10 

2114N-3L 

1024x4  300NS  LP                                 $6.95       $5.65 

$5.00 

$4.50 

5257N-3L 

4096  x  1  300NS  LP                                 $9.50       $6.90 

CALL 

CALL 

7489 

16x4  60NS  TTL                                    $2.99       $ 

DYNAMIC  RAMS 

$2.25 

$1.75 

PART  NO. 

DESCRIPTION                                              1-7         B-24 

25-99 

100* 

4U6AC20 

16K  x  1  200NS                                         $7.95       $6.25 
CALL  FOR  VOLUME  PRICING  ON  4116  DYNAMIC  RAMS 

$ 

$5.20 

5290J-2 

16Kx1  150NS      (4116)                          CALL        CALL 

E  PROMS 

CALL 

CALL 

PART  NO. 

DESCRIPTION                                                  17 

8-24 

25-99 

I702A 

256  x  1  US  UV  ERASABLE                             $6.95 

t  6.00 

CALL 

2708 

1024  x  8  450NS  UV  ERASABLE                    $  9.00 

!  8.50 

CALL 

TNIS2716 

3  SUPPLY  2K  x  8  EPROM                                 $19.95 

CALL 

CALL 

2716 

5V  ONLY  2K  x  8  EPROM                                $20.00 

18  00 

SI  5.00 

2732 

5V  ONLY  4K  x  8  EPROM                                 CALL 

BUS  DRIVERS  &  RECEIVERS 

CALL 

CALL 

PART  NO. 

DESCRIPTION 

PRICE 

8T26N 

QUAD  BUS  DRV/RCVR  EXT 

$2.75 

8T28N 

QUAD  3  STATE  BUS  DRV/RCVR 

$2.75 

BT96N 

HEX  INVERTER  TRI-STATE 

$1.95 

BT97N 

HEX  BUFFER  TRI-STATE 

$1.95 

BT98N 

HEX  INVERTER  TRI-STATE 

$1.95 

B13IN 

QUAD  TRI-STATE  LINE  RECEIVER 

$3.00 

MC14B8P 

RS232  QUAD  LINE  DRIVER 

$1.18 

MC1489P 

RS232  QUAD  LINE  RECEIVER 

UARTS 

$1.18 

PART  NO. 

DESCRIPTION 

PRICE 

AY51013A 

UART30KBAUD(-12V*5V) 

$5.95 

TR1602B 

UART20KBAUD(-12V*5V) 

$5.95 

MEK6800  MICROCOMPUTER  MODULES 

PART  NO. 

DESCRIPTION 

PRICE 

MEK680904A 

6809  MPU  BOARD.  CASS  INT.  1K  RAM.  DEBUG  MONITOR  (MOKEP) 

$490.00 

MEK6809D4B 

SAME  AS  ABOVE.  WITH  ADDR  &  DATA  BUFFERS 

AND  RS-232  INTERFACE 

$528.00 

MEK68KPD 

KEYPAD/DISPLAY  WITH  PWR.  SUPPLY  FOR  MEK6809D4A 

$275.00 

MEK6802D5 

6802  SBC,  25  KEY  KEYPAD,  2K  MONITOR 

WITH  DEBUG,  PWR  SUPPLY 

$305.00 

MEK68I0E 

I/O  MODULE,  CASS  INT.,  RS-232C  INT,  DIA  PORT  (MOKEP) 

$325.00 

MEK6BRRE 

RAM/ROM  MODULE,  1K  RAM  EXPAN,  TO  8K, 

EDITOR/ASSEMBLER  ON  ROM  (MOKEP) 

$469.00 

MEK6B00ABC 

ADAPTER/MOTHERBOARD  FOR  MEK6800 

D2  AND  MOKEP  PRODUCTS 

$215.00 

MEK6809EAC 

EDITOR/ASSEMBLER  FOR  THE  MEK6809EAC  (CASS,  300  BAUD) 

$110.00 

MEK6800D2A 

6800  EVALUATION  KIT  II.  PIA  I/O,  CASS  INT,  256  BIT  RAM 

$409.00 

MEK6802D3 

6802  SBC  HEX  KEYPAD,  PARALLEL  I/O. 

MONITOR.  16  BIT  TIMER  COUNTER 

$305.00 

MEK6B02D3C 

SAME  AS  ABOVE  WITHOUT  KEYPAD  &  LED  DISPLAYS  (MOKEP) 

$269.00 

MEK68I0 

SAME  AS  MEK68I0  LESS  RS-232  DRIVER  ROM 

$305.00 

MEK6800AB 

SAME  AS  MEK6800ABC  LESS  EDITOR/ASSEM  CASSETTE 

$169.00 

MEK68MB5 

MOTHERBOARD  FOR  MOKEP  PRODUCTS 

$139.00 

MEK68MM16 

16K  RAM  FOR  THE  MOKEP  FAMILY 

$359.00 

MU6BMM32 

32K  RAM  FOR  THE  MOKEP  FAMILY 

$479.00 

MEK68R2 

PROGRAMMABLE  CRT  INTERFACE  FOR  THE  MEK6800AB  (MOKEP) 

$359.00 

MEK68R2IYI 

PROGRAMMABLE  CRT  INTERFACE  FOR  THE  MEK6802D3 

$359.00 

MEK68CC 

CARD  CAGE  FOR  THE  MEK68MB5  MOTHERBOARD 

$  85.00 

MEK6BRR 

SAME  AS  MEK68RRE  LESS  EDITOR  ASSEMBLER  ON  ROM 

$359.00 

MEK6BWW 

WIRE  WRAP  MODULE  FOR  THE  MEK6800AB 

$  69.00 

MEK6BWW01 

WIRE  WRAP  MODULE  FOR  THE  MEK68MB 

$  69.00 

MEK68EP 

EPROM  PROGRAMMER  FOR  THE  MOKEP  FAMILY 

$419.00 

MEK68CMB 

10  SLOT  MOTHERBOARD  AND  CARD  CAGE 

FOR  THE  MOKEP  FAMILY 

$209.00 

CHR0MA68 

6808  SBC  WITH  COLOR  GRAPHICS 

$149.00 

SPST  DIP  SWITCHES 

PRICE 

PART  NO. 

NO.  OF  POSITIONS                             1-9 

10-24 

25-99 

0IP-SW4 

f-&mm^                  4                                      J,5° 

$1.40 

$1.28 

DIPSW5 

4jU7^&*.                                       si60 

$1.49 

$1.36 

DIP-SW6 

afcu/7*ni                       $170 

$1.59 

$1.45 

DIP-SW7 

IHJ 

$1.68 

$1.53 

0IP-SW8 

^^B    MIV 

$1.86 

$1.70 

D1P-SW9 

^^^^r 

$2.10 

$1.92 

DIP-SW10 

10                                      $2.50 

$2.33 

$2.12 

CALL  FOR  QUANTITY  PRICING 


BYTE  November  1980 


80  —  19 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


f 

74LS  TTL 

74LS  TTL 

74LS  TTL 

> 

PART# 

DESCRIPTION 

PRICE 

PART* 

DESCRIPTION 

PRICE 

74LS00 

QUAD  2-IN  NAND  GATE 

S  .40 

74LS7B 

DUAL  J-F  F/F  W/PRESET.  COMM 

74LS0I 
741S02 

QUAD  2-IN  NAND  GATE  (OC) 
QUAD  MN  NOR  GATE  (OC) 

.40 
.40 

74LS83 

CLK  ♦  CLR 
4-BIT  FULL  ADD 

S  .63 
1.37 

PARTS 

DESCRIPTION 

PRICE 

74LS03 

QUAD  2-IN  NAND  GATE  (OC) 

.40 

74LS85 

4-BIT  MAG  COMP 

1.58 

74LS173 

QUAD  "D"  REG  (TS) 

SI. 89 

74LS04 

HEX INV 

.42 

74LS86 

QUAD  EX-OR  GATE 

.58 

74LSI74 

HEX  "D"  F/F 

2.05 

74LS0S 

74LS08 

HEX INV 

QUAD  2-IN  AND  GATE 

.42 

.40 

74LS90 
74LS93 

BINARY  COUNTER 
BINARY  COUNTER 

.95 
.95 

74LSI75 
74LS190 
74LS19I 

QUAD  "D"  F/F 
U/D  DECADE  CTR 
U/D  BINARY  CTR 

1.95 
1.20 
1.43 

74LS09 
74LSI0 

OUAD  2-IN  NAND  GATE  (OC) 
TRIP  3-IN  NAND 

.40 
.40 

74LS107 
74LS109 

DUAL  J-K  F/F  W/CORNER  PWR  PINS 
DUAL  J-K  F/F  POS  EDGE 

.60 

74LS192 

U/D  DECADE  BINARY 

3.05 

74LSI1 

TRIP  3-IN  AND 

.42 

74LS112 

DUAL  J-K  F/F  NEG  EDGE 

.62 

74LS193 

U/D  BINARY  CTR 

3.05 

74LS12 
74LS13 
74LS14 

TRIP  3-IN  NAND  GATE  (OC) 
DUAL  SCHMITT  TRIG 
HEX  SCHMITT  TRIG 

.42 
.78 
2.20 

74LS113 
74LS114 
74LS122 

DUAL  J-K  F/F  NEG  EDGE 
DUAL  J-K  F/F  NEG  EDGE 
RETRIGGERABLE  MON  MULTIVIBRATOR 

.62 
.62 
1.55 

74LS196 
74LS197 
74LS221 

PRESET  DECADE  CTR 
PRESET  BINARY  CTR 
DUAL  MONO.  MULTIVIBRATOR  (SCH  TRG) 

1.98 
1.98 
1.70 

74LS15 

TRIP  3-IN  NAND 

.42 

74LS123 

DUAL  RETRIG.  MONO.  MULTIVIBRATOR 

1.70 

74LS240 

OCTAL  INV  BUS/LINE  DRVR 

2.81 

74LSZ0 

DUAL  4-IN  NAND  GATE 

.40 

74LS125 

QUAD  BUFF  (TS) 

.74 

74LS24I 

OCTAL  BUS/LINE  DRVR 

2J31 

74LS21 
74LS22 

DUAL  4-IN  NAND  GATE 
DUAL  4-IN  NAND  GATE  (OC) 

.40 
.40 

74LS126 
74LS132 

QUAD  BUFF  (TS) 
QUAD  SCHMITT  TRIG 

.74 
1.20 

74LS242 
74LS243 
74LS244 

QUAD  BUSTRSCVR/INV 
QUAD  BUS  TRSCVR 
OCTAL  3  STAT  DRVR 

2.BI 
2.B1 

74LS26 
74LS27 

QUAD  2-IN  NAND  GATE  (HV) 
TRIP  3-IN  NOR  GATE 

74LS136 
74LSI38 

QUAD  EX-OR  GATE 
EXP.  SNGL  3/8  DECODER 

.42 

.95 

74LS245 

OCTAL  BUS  TRSCVR 

2.53 

74LS30 

SNGL8-IN  NAND  GATE 

.40 

74LSI39 

EXP.  DUAL  2/4  DECODER 

.95 

74LS247 

BCD-7  SEGMT  DECODER/DRIVER 

1.68 

74LS32 
74LS37 

QUAD  2-IN  OR  GATE 
QUAD  2-IN  NAND  BUFF 

.46 
.46 

74LSI5I 
74LSI53 

SNGL  8-1  MUX 
DUAL  4-1  MUX 

84 
.84 

74LS253 
74LS2S7 
74LS258 

DUAL  4-IN  MUX  (TS) 
QUAD  2-IN  MUX 
QUAD  2/1  MUX 

IBS 

1.95 
1.95 

74LS3B 

74LS40 

QUAD  2-IN  NAND  BUFF  (OC) 
DUAL  4-IN  NAND  BUFF 

74LS154 
74LSI55 

SNGL  4-16  DECODER 
DUAL  2-4  DEMUX 

.42 

1.55 

74LS266 

QUAD  EX-NOR  GATE 

.66 

74LS42 

BCD-DECIMAL  DECODER/DRIVER 

.92 

74LSI56 

DUAL  2-4  DEMUX  (OC) 

1.55 

74LS279 

QUAD  SET/  RESET  LATCH 

J38 

74LS47 
74LS48 

BCD-7  SEGMT  DECODER/DRIVER 
BCD-7  SEGMT  DECODER/DRIVER 

1.7B 
1.78 

74LS157 
74LS158 

QUAD  2-1  MUX 

QUAD  2-1  MUX  (INV  OUT) 

.84 
.95 

74LS283 
74LS299 

74LS365 

4-BIT  FULL  ADD 

FOUR  BIT  BINARY  COUNTER 

HEX  BUFF  (TS) 

1.76 
2.20 

.88 

74LS49 
74LS51 

BCD-7  SEGMT  DECODER/DRIVER 
QUAD  2-IN  AND-OR-INV  GATE 

HUM 

74LS161 

PRESET  DECADE  CTR 
PRESET  BINARY  CTR 

.40 

1.20 

74LS366 

HEX  INV  (TS) 

88 

74LS54 

QUAD  2-IN  AND-OR-INV  GATE 

.40 

74LS162 

PRESET  DECADE  CTR  (SYN  CLR) 

2.20 

74LS367 

HEX  BUFF  (4-2)  (TS) 

J38 

74LSSS 

74LS73 
74LS74 

DUAL  4-IN  AND-OR-INV  GATE 
DUAL  J-F  F/F  W/PRESET*  CLR 
DUAL  "D"  F/F 

.40 
.60 
.58 

74LS163 
74LS164 
74LSI68 

PRESET  DECADE  CTR  (SYN  CLR) 

8-BIT  S/R 

SYN  DECADE  U/D  CTR 

1.20 
2.20 
3.75 

74LS368 
74LS373 
74LS374 

HEX  INV  (4-2)  TS 

TRI-STATE  OCTAL  D-FLIP-FLOP 

TRI-STATE  OCTAL  D-FLIP-FLOP 

88 
2.00 

2.00 

74LS75 

QUAD  LATCH 

.82 

74LS169 

SYN  BINARY  U/D  CTR 

3.75 

74LS386 

QUAD  EX-OR  GATE 

.69 

LMLS76 

DUAL  J-K  F/F  W/PRESET*  CLR 

.62 

7.4LS170 

4x4  REG  FILE 

3.15 

74LS670 

4x4  REG  FILE  (TS) 

3.5 

< 

r 

74  TTL 

74TTL 

PART* 

DESCRIPTION            '  ' 

PRIC 

PART# 

DESCRIPTION 

PRICE 

PART* 

DESCRIPTION 

PRICE 

74157 

QUAD  2-INPUT  MULTIPLEXER  (9322) 

1.10 

7400 

QUAD  TWO-INPUT  GATE 

S  .32 

7454 

ANO-OR-INVERT  GATE 

S  .32 

74160 

PRESETTABLE  DECADE  COUNTER  (9310) 

1.32 

7401 

QUAD  TWO-INPUT  GATE  (OPEN  COLL.) 

.32 

7460 

DUAL  FOUR-INPUT  EXPANDER 

.32 

74161 

PRESET.  DECADE  BINARY  COUNTER  (9316) 

1.32 

7402 

QUAD  TWO-INPUT  NOR  GATE 

32 

7470 

EDGE-TRIGGERED  J-K  FLIP-FLOP 

.50 

74162 

PRESET.  DECADE  CTR  (SYNCH  CLEAR) 

1.32 

7403 

QUAD  TWO-INPUT  GATE  (OPEN  COLL) 

32 

7472 

J-K  MASTER  SLAVE  FLIP-FLOP 

.45 

74163 

PRESET.  BINARY  CTR  (SYNCH  CLEAR) 

1.32 

7404 

HEX  INVERTER 

3t 

7473 

DUAL  J-K  FLIP-FLOP 

.45 

74164 

SERIAL-IN.  PARA-OUT  8-BIT  SHIFT  REG. 

1.43 

7405 

HEX  INVERTER  (OPEN  COLLECTOR) 

.36 

7474 

DUAL  D  FLIP-FLOP 

.45 

74165 

PARA-IN,  SERIAL-OUT  8-BIT  SHIFT  REG 

1.43 

7406 

30V-40MA  HEX  INVERTER 

.45 

7475 

QUAD  LATCH 

.73 

74166 

8-BIT  SHIFT  REGISTER 

1.43 

7407 

30V-40MA  HEX  BUFFER 

.45 

7476 

DUAL  J-K  FLIP-FLOP 

.45 

74170 

4  x  4  REGISTER  FILE 

2.42 

7408 

QUAD  2-INPUT  POSITIVE  AND  GATE 

.32 

7483 

4-BIT  BINARY  FULL  ADDER 

.99 

74173 

TRI  ST.  QUAD  K  F.-FLOP  (DM8551N) 

1.80 

7409 

QUAD  2-INPUT  AND  GATE  (OC) 

.32 

7485 

FOUR-BIT  MAGNITUDE  COMPARATOR 

1.30 

74174 

HEX  D  FLIP-FLOP 

1.21 

7410 

TRIPLE  THREE -INPUT  GATE 

.32 

7486 

QUAD  EXCLUSIVE-OR  GATE 

.40 

74175 

QUAD  D  FLIP-FLOP 

1.21 

7411 

TRIPLE  THREE-INPUT  AND  GATE 

32 

7489 

64  BIT  RAM  OC 

2.98 

74176 

PRESET.  DECADE  COUNTER  (DM8280) 

1.32 

7413 

DUAL  SCHMITT  TRIGGER 

.54 

7490 

DECADE  COUNTER 

.73 

74177 

PRESET.  BINARY  COUNTER  (DM8281) 

1.32 

7414 

HEX  SCHMITT  TRIGGER 

1.26 

7491 

SERIAL-IN.  SERIAL-OUT  8-BIT  SHIFT  REG 

.99 

74180 

PARITY  GENERATOR/CHECKER 

1.21 

7416 

15V-40MA  HEX  INVERTER 

.45 

7492 

DIVIDE-BY-TWELVE  COUNTER 

.73 

74181 

ARITHMETIC  LOGIC  UNIT 

2.75 

7417 

15V-40MA  HEX  BUFFER 

.45 

7493 

FOUR-BIT  BINARY  COUNTER 

.73 

74182 

CARRY  LOOK  AHEAD 

1.10 

7420 

DUAL  FOUR-INPUT  GATE 

.32 

7495 

4-BIT  RIGHT-SHIFT,  LEFT-SHIFT  REGIST 

.88 

74184 

BCD-TO-BINARY  COUNTER 

2.10 

7423 

EXPAND  DUAL  FOUR-INPUT  NOR  GATE 

.36 

7496 

5-BIT  SHIFT  REG.  (PARA-IN.  PARA-OUT) 

.99 

74185 

BINARY-TO-BCO  CONVERTER 

2.10 

7425 

DUAL  FOUR-INPUT  NOR  GATE 

.36 

74107 

DUAL  J-K  FLIP-FLOP 

.99 

74189 

64-BIT  RAM  (TRI-STATE) 

3.65 

7426 

QUAD  2-INPUT  INTERFACE  NAND  GATE 

.36 

74109 

DUAL  J-K  FLIP-FLOP  (FSC  9024) 

.50 

74190 

SYNCH.  DECADE  UP/DOWN  COUNTER 

1.43 

7427 

TRIPLE  THREE-INPUT  NOR  GATE 

.36 

74121 

ONE  SHOT 

.50 

74191 

SYNCH.  BINARY  UP/DOWN  COUNTER 

1.43 

7430 

EIGHT-INPUT  GATE 

.32 

74123 

DUAL  ONE  SHOT 

.77 

74192 

DECADE  UP/DOWN  COUNTER  (DM8560N) 

1.43 

7432 

QUAD  2-INPUT  OR  GATE 

.36 

74126 

TRI  STATE  QUAD  BUFFER  (DM8093) 

.59 

74193 

BINARY  UP/DOWN  COUNTER  (DM8563N) 

1.43 

7437 

QUAD  TWO-INPUT  NAND  BUFFER 

.42 

74126 

TRI  STATE  QUAD  BUFFER  (DM8094) 

.59 

74194 

4-BIT.  BI-DIREC  UNIV  SHIFT  REG 

1.10 

7438 

7440 

QUAD  2-INPUT  NAND  BUFFER  (OC) 
DUAL  FOUR-INPUT  BUFFER 

.42 
.32 

74132 

QUAD  SCHMITT  TRIGGER 

.99 

74195 
74194 

4-BIT  PARALLEL  SHIFT  REG 
PRESET.  DECADE  COUNT.  (DM8290N0 

1.10 

74141 

NIXIE  DRIVER 

1.35 

1.21 

7441 

BCD-DECIMAL  DECODER/DRIVER  (NIXIE) 

1.30 

74145 

BCD  TO  DECIMAL  DECODER  DRIVER 

1.21 

74198 

PARA-IN,  PARA-OUT  8-BIT  SHIFT  REG 

2.20 

7442 

BCD-TO-DECIMAL  DECODER 

.77 

74147 

10/4  PRIORITY  ENCODER 

1.98 

74199 

PARA-IN,  PARA-OUT.  8-BIT  SHIFT  REG 

2.20 

7445 

BCD-TO-DECIMAL  DECODER/DRIVER 

1.43 

74148 

8/3  PRIORITY  ENCODER  (9318) 

1.98 

74251 

TRI  STATE  DM74151  (DM8121) 

1.10 

7446 

BCD-7  SEG  DECODER/DRIVER  (30  VOLT) 

1.32 

74150 

SIXTEEN  LINE  MULTIPLEXER 

1.50 

74284 

4  x  4  MULT.  (MOST  SIG  BIT)  TS. 

4.95 

7447 

BCD-7  SEG  DECODER/DRIVER  (15  VOLT) 

1.32 

74151 

EIGHT  LINE  MULTIPLEXER 

1.10 

74285 

4x4MULT.  (LEAST  SIG  BIT)  TS 

49 

1 

7448 

BCD-7  SEG  DECODER/DRIVER  (ACTIVEHI) 

1.32 

74153 

DUAL  FOUR-INPUT  MULTIPLEXER 

1.10 

74365 

TRI  STATE  HEX  BUFFER  (DM8095) 

a 

i 

7450 

EXPAN.  DUAL  AND-OR-INVERT  GATE 

.32 

74154 

4T0  16LINEDEC0DE/DEMUX 

1.65 

74366 

TRI  STATE  HEX  INVERT,  (DM8096) 

.9 

i 

7461 

DUAL  AND-OR-INVERT  GATE 

.32 

74155 

DUAL  2  TO  4  DEMULTIPLEXER 

.99 

74367 

TRI  STATE  HEX  BUFFER  (4-2) 

J 

b 

7453 

EXPANDABLE  AND-OR-INVERT  GATE 

.32 

74156 

DUAL  2  TO  4  DEMUX  (OC) 

1.21 

74368 

TRI  STATE  HEX  INVERT.  (4-2) 

.9 

b 

4 

^ 

LM741CN/10     G.P.  OP  AMP  (10  PAK)  (MC1741CPI) 

3.99 

% 

LM741CH 

G.P.  0PAMP(MC1741CG) 

.79 

LINEAR 

LINEAR 

LM747CN 

DUAL  741  (MC1747CP2) 

1.00 

LM747CH 

DUAL  741  (MC1747CG) 

1.25 

MC3403P 

QUAD  DIFF.  OP  AMP 

1.20 

PART* 

DESCRIPTION 

PRICE 

LM746CN 

NON-COMP  OP  AMP  (MC1748CP1) 

.56 

MC3423PI 

OVR/VOLT  PROT  CIRCUIT 

'I 

LM301AN 

IMPROVED  709  OP  AMP 

$  .49 

LM748CU 

N0N-C0MP0PAMP(MC1748CG) 

.90 

LM3900 

QUAD  OP  AMP 

JJU 

LM307N 

IMPROVED  741  OP  AMP 

.69 

MC1330AP 

LOW  LEVEL  VIDEO  DET. 

1.83 

RC4136 

QUAD  741 

1.79 

LM308N 

PRECISION  OP  AMP  LOW  POWER 

.79 

MC1349P 

HI  GAIN  VIDEO  IF  AMP 

1.49 

WC474ICP 

QUAD  741 

1.40 

LM311N 

VOLTAGE  COMPARATOR  (DIP) 

.84 

MCI350P 

VIDEO  IF  AMP 

1.29 

LM3IIH 

VOLTAGE  COMPARATOR  (TO-5I 

1.42 

MC1352P 

VIDEO  IF  AMP  WITH  AGC 

1.69 

1C8038 
MC75450P 

DUAL  PERIPH  DRIVER  (AND) 

4.50 

LM324N 

LOW  POWER  OUAD  OP  AMP 

1.19 

MC1358P 

SOUND  IF  AMP 

1.90 

MC75451P 

DUAL  PERIPH.  DRIVER  (AND) 

1.25 

LM339N 

LOW  POWER  &  OFFSET  VOLTAGE  OP  AMP 

.80 

MCI408LS 

8-BIT  D/A  CONVERTER 

4.69 

MC75452P 

DUAL  PERIPH.  DRIVER  (NAND) 

1.25 

LM348N 

LOW  POWER  QUAD  741  OP  AMP 

1.31 

MCI436CG 

HI  VOLT  OP  AMP 

4.41 

MC75453P 

DUAL  PERIPH  DRIVER  (OR) 

1.25 

LM358N 

SINGLE  ENDED  LOW  POWER  DUAL  OP  AMP 

84 

MCI439P1 

HI  SLEW  RATE  OP  AMP 

2.84 

LM380N 

2.5  WATT  POWER  AUDIO  AMP 

1.49 

MC1445L 

HI  FREQ  OP  AMP 

2.97 

MC75454P 
MC7549IP 

QUAD  LED  SEGMENT  DRIVER 

1.25 
.91 

NE555V 

TIMER  I.C. 

.55 

MC1456CP 

LINEAR  OP  AMP 

1.20 

MC75492P 

HEX  LED  DIGIT  DRIVER 

1.31 

NE555I//II 

TIMER  IX.  10PAK 

4.50 

MC1458CG 

DUAL  741 

.98 

NE556A 

DUAL  555  TIMER 

1.00 

MC1458CP 

DUAL  741 

.69 

NE565A 

PHASE  LOCKED  LOOP 

1.49 

MC1488P 

RS-232  DRIVER 

1.18 

LM710CN 

HI  SPEED  VOLT  COMP.  (MC1710CP) 

1.18 

MCI 489 

RS-232  RECEIVER 

1.18 

FET  LINEAR 

LM710CH 

HI  SPEED  VOLT  COMP.  (MC1710CG) 

1.20 

MCI496P 

BAL.  MOD-DEMOD 

1.31 

PRICE 

LM711CN 

DUAL  V/COMP  W/COMM  OUTPUT  (MC1711CP 

.64 

MC3302P 

L/PWRL/OFST  QUAD  COMP 

.80 

LM711CH 

DUAL  V/COMP  W/COMM  OUTPUT  (MC1711CG 

1.18 

MC3310P 

WIDE  BAND  AMP 

.98 

LF355N 

JFETOPAMPL/CURRENT 

SI. 49 

LM733CN 

DIFF  VIDEO  AMP  (MC1733CP) 

1.00 

MC3340P 

ELECTRONIC  ATTENUATOR 

1.50 

LF356N 

JFET  OP  AMP  WIDEBAND 

1.49 

LM741CN 

G.P.  OPAMP(MC1741CPI) 

.49 

MC3410P 

QUAD  OP  AMP 

.89 

LF357N 

JFET  OP  AMP  HI-SPEED 

149 

80  —  20 


BYTE  November  1980 


CA,  AK,  HI,  CALL  (213)  894-8171 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


r 

™"X 

4000  Series  CMOS 

1 

PRICE 

PRICE 

PART  #             PRODUCT  DESCRIPTION                                                           1-24 
4000                DUAL  3-INPUT  NOR  GATE  ♦  HUT.                                            S  .40 

25-99 
$  .33 

PART# 

PRODUCT  DESCRIPTION 

1-24                  25-99 

4414 

PCM  FILTER 

23.76                 19.80 

4001                  QUAD  2-INPUT  NOR  GATE                                                              40 

.33 

4408 

BIN  TO  PHONE  PLS  CONV. 

10.04                  8.37 

4002                DUAL  4-INPUT  NOR  GATE                                                         .40 

.33 

4409 

BIN  TO  PHONE  PLS  CONV. 

10.04                  8.37 

4006                  18-BIT  STATIC  SHIFT  REGISTER                                                  1.42 

1.18 

4410 

2  0F8T0NEENCDR 

9.28                  7  73 

4007  DUAL  COMPLEMENTARY  PAIR  PLUS  INV.                                     .40 

4008  4-BIT  FULL  ADDER  WITH  PAR.  CARRY                                         1.75 

.33 
1.04 

4411 

BIT  RATE  FEQ.  GEN. 

11.68                  9.73 

4412 

UNIV.  LW-SPEED  MODEM 

14.11                 11.76 

4011                  QUAD  2-INPUT  NAND  GATE                                                           .40 

.33 

4415 

QUAD  PREC  TIMER/DRIVER 

5.65                  4.71 

4012                DUAL  4-INPUT  NAND  GATE                                                       .40 

.33 

4419 

2  0F8KYPDT0BINENC0R 

3.30                  2.75 

4013                  DUAL  D  FLIP/FLOP                                                                        .72 

.60 

4443 

uPA/D  CONVERTER 

2.85                  2.38 

4014  8-BIT  STATIC  SHIFT  REGISTER                                                1.25 

4015  DUAL  4-BIT  STATIC  SHIFT  REGISTER                                       1.47 

1.04 
1.22 

4457 

R/C  TRANSMITTER 

4.50                  3.75 

4458 

R/C  TRANSMITTER 

9.36                  7.80 

4016                QUAD  BILATERAL  SWITCH                                                        72 

.60 

4469 

ADDRESS  ASYN  RECEIVER/TRANSMITTER 

13.37                 11.14 

4017                DECADE  COUNTER/DIVIDER                                                    1.25 

1.04 

4490 

HEX  CONTACT  DE-BOUNCER 

2.89                  2.40 

4018                  PRESETTABLE  DIVIDE  BY  "N"  COUNTER                                      1.14 

.95 

4495 

HEX  TO  7  SEG  DECODER/DRIVER 

2.70                  2.25 

4020                14-STAGE  RIP-CARRY  BINARY  COUNTER                                 1.47 

1.22 

4500 

1-BIT  CPU  IND.  CONT  UNIT 

5.46                  4.55 

4021                 8-BIT  STATIC  SHIFT  REGISTER                                                1.25 

1.04 

4501 

TRIPLE  GATE 

40                  .33 

4022                DIVIDE  BY  8  COUNTER/DIVIDER                                               1.25 

1.04 

4502 

STROBE  HEX  INV-BUFFER 

1.73                    1.44 

4023                  TRIPLE  3-INPUT  NAND  GATE                                                         .40 

.33 

4503 

TRI-STATE  HEX  BUFFER 

.64                  .70 

4024                 7-BIT  BINARY  COUNTER                                                              1 06 

.89 

4506 

DUAL  EXP  AOI  GATE 

1 .00                    .83 

4025                 TRIPLE  3-INPUT  NOR                                                                     .40 
4027                  DUAL  J-K  FLIP/FLOP                                                                     .72 

.33 
.60 

4508 

DUAL  4-BIT  LATCH 

4.53                    .83 

4510 

BCD  UP/DOWN  COUNTER 

1.47                   1.22 

4028                BCD-TO-DECIMAL  DECODER                                                    1.02 

IS 

4511 

BCD-TO-SEVEN  SEGMENT  DECODER  DRIVER 

1.44                  1.20 

4029                  PRESETTABLE  UP/DOWN  COUNTER                                            1.42 

1.19 

4512 

8-CHANNEL  DATA  SELECTOR 

1.42                  1.18 

4032                TRIPLE  SER  ADDER                                                                219 

1.83 

4513 

BCD-7  SEG  LTCH/DEC/DRVR  RIP-BL 

1.91                   1.59 

4034  8-BIT  SHIFT  REGISTER                                                            3.50 

4035  4-BIT  SHIFT  REGISTER                                                                 1.86 

2.91 
1.55 

4514 

4-BIT  LATCH  4  TO  16  LINE  DECODER  HI 

2.91                   2.43 

4515 

4-BIT  LATCH  4  TO  16  LINE  DECODER 

2.91                   2.43 

4040                12-BIT  BINARY  RIPPLE  COUNTER                                             1.47 

1.22 

4516 

BINARY  UP/DOWN  COUNTER 

1.59                  1.32 

4042                QUAD  D.  LATCH                                                                     1.06 

m 

4517 

DUAL  64-BIT  STATIC  SHIFT  REG 

7.03                  5.86 

4043                  QUAD  TRI-STATE  NOR  R/S  LATCH                                                .99 

J33 

4518 

DUAL  BCO  UP  COUNTER 

1.47                  1.22 

4044                  QUAD  TRI-STATE  NAND  R/S  LATCH                                              .99 

.83 

4519 

4-BIT  AND/OR  SELECTOR 

.80                    .66 

4046                PHASE  LOCKED  LOOP                                                             1.57 

1.31 

4520 

DUAL  BINARY  UP  COUNTER 

1.47                  1.22 

4049                HEX  INVERTING  BUFFER                                                          .72 

.60 

4521 

24  STG  FREO  DIVIDER 

3.56                  2.97 

4050                HEX  BUFFER                                                                           .72 

.60 

4522 

DIVIDE-BY-N  COUNTER  (BCD) 

1.81       '            1.51 

4051                 SINGLE  8-CHANNEL  MULTIPLEXER                                          1.30 

1.08 

4526 

DIVIDE-BY-COUNTER  (BINARY) 

1.81                   1.51 

4052                DIFFERENTIAL  4-CHANNEL  MULTIPLEXER                               1.30 

1.08 

4527 

BCD  RATE  MULTIPLIER 

1.59                  1.33 

4053                  TRIPLE  2-CHANNEL  MULTIPLEXER                                              1  30 

1.08 

4528 

DUAL  MONOSTABLE  MULTIVIBRATOR 

1.81                 1.51 

4066                  QUAD  BILATERAL  SWITCH                                                            .80 

.66 

4529 

DUAL  4-CHANNEL  ANALOG  DATA  SELECTOR 

1.96                  1.63 

4068                8-INPUT  NAND  GATE                                                                .40 

.33 

4530 

DUAL  5  IN.  MAJORITY  LOG-GATE 

1.22                  1.02 

4069                HEX  INVERTER                                                                        .40 

.33 

4532 

8-BIT  PRIOR  ENCODER 

3.01                   2.51 

4070  QUAD  EXCLUSIVE  OR  GATE                                                           .40 

4071  BUFFERED  QUAD  2-INPUT  OR  GATE                                              .40 

.33 
.33 

4534 

REAL  TIME  5  DEC  CNTR 

9.16                  7.63 

4536 

PROG.  TIMER 

4.86                  4.05 

4072                  DUAL  4-INPUT  OR  GATE                                                                 40 

.33 

4538 

DUAL  PREC  MONO-MLTVB 

1.81                   1.51 

4073                  TRIPLE  3-INPUT  AND  GATE                                                           .40 

.33 

4539 

DUAL  4-CHANNEL  DATA  SEL/MUX 

1.44                  1.20 

4075                 TRIPLE  3-INPUT  OR  GATE                                                              .40 

.33 

4541 

PROG  OSC-TIMER 

1.80                  1.50 

4076  TRI-STATE  QUAD  LATCH                                                             1.57 

4077  QUAD  ECLSV  NOR  GATE                                                            40 

1.31 
.33 

4543 

BCD  TO  SEVEN  SEGMENT  DECODER  (LCD) 

2.63                  2.19 

4547 

HI-CURRENT  BCD/7  SEG  DEC/DRVR 

1.65                  1.38 

4078                8-INPUT  NOR  GATE                                                                  .40 

.33 

4551 

QUAD  2  IN.  ANALOG  MUX 

1.44                  1.20 

4081                  BUFFERED  QUAD  2-INPUT  AND  GATE                                            .40 

.33 

4553 

3  DIGIT  BCD  CNTR 

3.95                  3.29 

4082                  DUAL  4-INPUT  GATE                                                                      .40 

.33 

4556 

DUAL  BIN  TO  1  OF  4  DEC  (INV.) 

1.15                    .96 

4093  QUAD  2-INPUT  NAND  SCHMITT  TRIGGER                                   .78 

4094  8-BIT  BUS-COMP  SHFT  STR  LATCH                                             3.01 

.65 
2.51 

4557 

1  TO  64-BIT  VARIABLE  SHIFT  REG 

3.95                  3.29 

4558 

BCDT0  7SEGDCDR 

1.77                  1.47 

4099                 8-BIT  ADDRESSABLE  LATCH                                                       1.73 

1.44 

4560 

NBCD  ADDER 

3.80                  3.17 

4160                  DEC  CNTR  ASYNC  CLR                                                                 1.28 

1.06 

4566 

IND  TIME  BASE  GEN. 

3.28                  1.98 

4161                  BIN  CNTR  ASYNC  CLR                                                                 128 

1.06 

4568 

PHASE  COMPARATOR/PROG.  TIMER 

6.49                  5.41 

4162                  DEC  CNTR  SYNC  CLR                                                                   128 

1.06 

4569 

HIGH  SPEED  DUAL  PROG.  CTR 

2.48                  2.07 

4163                BIN  CNTR  SYNC  CLR                                                               1.28 

1.06 

4582 

LOOK  AHEAD  CARRY  BLOCK 

1.37                  1.14 

4174                 HEX  D  FLIP  FLOP                                                                       J  1.28 

$  1.06 

4583 

DUAL  SCHMITT  TRIG 

1.69                    1.41 

4175                 QUAD  D  FLIP  FLOP                                                                        128 

1.06 

4584 

EX  RPL  MM74C14N 

.85                    .71 

4194                 4-BIT  UNIV.  SHIFT  REG.                                                                 1.42 

1.18 

4565 

4-BIT  MAG  COMP 

1.80                  1.50 

4404                  PULSE  CODE  MOD/DEMOD  (CODEC)                                           34.40 
4406                PULSE  CODE  MOD/DEMOD  (CODEC)                                        43.00 

32.48 

4597 

8-BIT  BUS  COMPAT  CNTR-LATCH 

3.72                  3.10 

35.83 

4598 

8-BIT  BUS  COMPAT  ADDRS-LATCH 

4.33                  3.61 

PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS  supplies  only  "B"  type, 
Buffered,  CMOS  devices  if  manufactured  by  Motorola 

4599 

8-BIT  ADDRESSABLE  LATCH 

3.72                  3.10 

45100 

4  x  4  CROSS  POINT  SW  W/CONT  MEM 

4.44                  3.70 

Semiconductor. 

^W=^ 

78H05 
|           309K 

POSITIVE 

5V 

5V              1 

5A           $8.95 
5A           $2.09 

NEGATIVE 

5V               1.5A           $2,50 

6  Amps  125  VAC 

7  Amps  30  VDC 

mMs 

VOLTAGE    REGUL/ 
CASE 

VTOR 

7905CK 

C^^tfi/Jl 

31 7K 

1.2-37V              1 

5A            $4.50 

STYLE    -_^ 

7906CK 

6V              1.5A           $3.69 

v-"^        -\Lr — n=> 

323K 

5V 

3A            $7.70 

ff*-  ^-^ 

7908CK 

8V              1.5A           $3.69 

DPDT  STANDARD  TOGGLE                    N     '            ' 

7805CR 
7806ck 
7808CK 
781 2CK 
7815CK 

5V              1 
6V              1 
8V              1 
12V              1 
15V              1 

5A            $2.50 
5A           $2.50 
5A           $2.50 
5A           $2.50 
5A           $2,50 

TO-3 

791 2CK 
7915CK 
7918CK 
7924CK 
7905CT 

12V              1.5A           $250 
15V              1.5A           $250 
18V              1.5A           $3.69 
24V               l  5A           $3  69 
5V                1.5A            $1,75 

CAL-ST2I       (ON-NONE-ON)                          $3.50       $3.25       $3.10 
CALST22       (ON-OFF-ON)                                 3.80         3.50         3.25 
CAL-ST23       (MOM  ONOFF-MOM  ON)             3.80        3.50         3.25 

CAL-ST24       (ONOFF-MOM  ON)                       3.95         3.60         3.40 

7B18CK 

18V              1 

5A           $2.50 

•dMnyife 

7906CT 

6V              1.5A           $1.75 

CAL-ST25       (ON-NONE-MOMON)                     3.95         3.60         3.40 

CT^^ 

7908CT 

BV              1.5A           $1.75 

CAL-ST26       (0N-0N-ON)                               3.95         3.60         3.40 

317T 

1.2-37V               1 

5A           $2.95 

791 2CT 

12V              1.5A           $1.75 

filament  transformers 

7805CT 
7806CT 
7808CT 
7812CT 

5V               1 
6V               1 
8V               1 
12V              1 

5A           $1.25 
5A           $1,25 
5A           $1  25 
5A           $1.25 

TO-220 

791 5CT 
7918CT 
7924CT 

15V              1.5A           $1.75 
18V              1.5A           $175 
24V               1.5A           $1.75 

,«%rF^~?^~ — :.-^r~* — r. 

7815CT 

15V               1 

5A           $1.25 

— — ^» 

79L05CP 

5V                  1A           SI. 10 

7818CT 

18V               1 

5A           $1.25 

■~==:==^o 

79L12CP 

12V                 1A           11.10 

High  quality  low  voltage  fila- 

7824CT 

24V               1 

4A           $1.25 

CP 

79L15CP 

15V                  1A           $1.10 

ment  transformers  Conserva- 

TO-92 

79L18CP 

18V                  1A           $1,10 

tively    rated.    Individually 

78L05CP 

5V 

1A            $  .49 

79L24CP 

24V                 ,1A           $1.10 

boxed 

IEc<Xtreii<ci9:     1 

78L08CP 
78L12CP 

8V 
12V 

1A            $  .49 
1A            $  .49 

, 

We  wi 

II  be  pleased 

jj^j 

78L15CP 

15V 

1A            S  ,49 

'"JZ            ■jl^^ 

^rt.i.u»  Ml    1 

78L18CP 

18V 

1A             $    49 

to  give  yoi              iaiion 

78L24CP 

24V 

1A             $  .49 

Pan  No.         Primary       Secondary       Rating       Sh.Wt.          Price 

LM305H         4.5V  -  40V  VOLT  REG 

11  89 

H  Package 

on  your 

large  quantity 

CAL-T631           117  VAC         6.3V           1  AMP          5  lbs          $3.39 
CAL-TI26I         117  VAC      12.6  V          1  AMP        .5  lbs.        $4.39 
CAL-T126C05     117  VAC       12.6  V  CT      500  MA        .5  lbs.         $3.39 

LM723CN       2-37V  VOLT  RED. 
LM723CH       2-37V  VOLT  REG 
MC3423PI       OVER/VOLT  PROT 

S  .59 

$1  06 
$1.31 

jlnfrwwm 

requirements. 

WE  ARE  PROUD  TO  FEATURE  MOTOROLA,  NATIONAL,  AND    1 

CAL-T126C3       117  VAC       12  6  V  CT      3  AMP          2  lbs.         $7.59 

"Tlllfli 

OTHER  LEADING  MANUFACTURES  OF  SEMICONDUCTORS      1 

CAL-T241           117  VAC       24     V           1  AMP          11b.           $4.79 

M    D  o  /■*  L/  o  /i  /!* 

EXACT  PART  NUMBER  OF  DEVICES  MAY  VARY  DEPENDING     1 

^ 

IN       rdOlxdUC                  UIN    MAMUhrtUIUMt 

ORDER  TOLL 

FRE 

E(8C 

)Q\  423~5S33  BYTENovemberi98°     80—21 

PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


CARBON  FILM 

1A  WATT  5% 
FIXED  RESISTORS 

ORDERING  INSTRUCTIONS: 
V*  watt  resistors  must  be  ordered  in  exact 
multiples  of  4,  50(L)  or  1,000(M)  pes.  per 
value. 


Resistor  Element 

(Deposited  Pure  Carbon  Film) 


CONSTRUCTION: 


Conformal  Multi-Coating 


EIA  Standard  Color  Coding 


Solder , 
Coated  Leadwire 


PART* 

VALUE 

RCO-100 

10  ohm 

RCQ-110 

11  ohm 

RCO-120 

12  ohm 

RCQ-130 

13  ohm 

RCO-150 

15  ohm 

RCQ-160 

16  ohm 

RCO-180 

18  ohm 

RCO-200 

20  ohm 

RCQ-220 

22  ohm 

RCQ-240 

24  ohm 

RCQ-270 

27  ohm 

RCQ-300 

30  ohm 

RCO-330 

33  ohm 

RCQ-360 

36  ohm 

RCQ-390 

39  ohm 

RCQ-430 

43  ohm 

RCO-470 

47  ohm 

RCQ-510 

51  ohm 

RCO-560 

56  ohm 

RCQ-620 

62  ohm 

RCQ-680 

68  ohm 

RCO-750 

75  ohm 

RCO-820 

82  ohm 

PARTS 

RCQ-101 

RCQ-111 

RCO-121 

RCQ-131 

RCQ-151 

RCQ-161 

RCQ-181 

RCO-201 

RCO-221 

RCO-241 

RCQ-271 

RCQ-301 

RCQ-331 

RCQ-361 

RCO-391 

RCQ-431 

RCQ-471 

RCQ-511 

RCQ-561 

RCO-621 

RCO-681 

RCQ-751 

RCO-821 

RCQ-911 


VALUE 
100  ohm 
110  ohm 
120  ohm 
130  ohm 
150  ohm 
160  ohm 
180  ohm 
200  ohm 
220  ohm 
240  ohm 
270  ohm 
300  ohm 
330  ohm 
360  ohm 
390  ohm 
430  ohm 
470  ohm 
510  ohm 
560  ohm 
620  ohm 
680  ohm 
750  ohm 
820  ohm 
910  ohm 


PARTS 

RCQ-102 

RCQ-112 

RCQ-122 

RCO-132 

RCO-152 

RCQ-162 

RCO-182 

RCQ-202 

RCQ-222 

RCO-242 

RCO-272 

RCQ-302 

RCQ-332 

RCO-362 

RCO-392 

RCO-432 

RCO-472 

RCO-512 

RCQ-562 

RCQ-622 

RC  0-682 

RCQ-752 

RCQ-822 

RCO-912 


VALUE 

1.0  K 

1.1  K 

1.2  K 

1.3  K 

1.5  K 

1.6  K 

1.8  K 
2.0  K 

2.2  K 

2.4  K 

2.7  K 

3.0  K 

3.3  K 

3.6  K 

3.9  K 
4.3  K 

4.7  K 

5.1  K 
5.6  K 

6.2  K 

6.8  K 

7.5  K 
8.2  K 
9.1  K 


Welded  End 


PARTS 

RCQ-103 

RCQ-113 

RCQ-123 

RCO-133 

RCQ-153 

RCQ-163 

RCO-183 

RCQ-203 

RCQ-223 

RCO-243 

RCQ-273 

RCQ-303 

RCO-333 

RCO-363 

RCO-393 

RCQ-433 

RCQ-473 

RCQ-513 

RCO-563 

RCQ-673 

RCQ-683 

RCQ-753 

RCO-823 

RCO-913 


Helical 
VALUE 

10  K 

11  K 

12  K 

13  K 

15  K 

16  K 
18  K 
20  K 
22  K 
24  K 
27  K 
30  K 
33  K 
36  K 
39  K 
43  K 
47  K 
51  K 
56  K 

67  K 

68  K 
75  K 
82  K 
91  K 


Exacting  Contami 
Cuttinq  Ceramic 
PART* 
RCQ-104 
RCQ-114 
RCO-124 
RCQ-134 
RCQ-154 
RCQ-164 
RCQ-184 
RCQ-204 
RCQ-224 
RCQ-244 
RCO-274 
RCO-304 
RCO-334 
RCO-364 
RCO-394 
RCQ-434 
RCQ-474 
RCQ-514 
RCQ-564 
RCO-624 
RCQ-684 
RCQ-754 
RCO-824 


nation  Free 
Rod 
VALUE 
100  K 
110  K 
120  K 
130  K 
150  K 
160  K 
180  K 
200  K 
220  K 
240  K 
270  K 
300  K 
330  K 
360  K 
390  K 
430  K 
470  K 
510  K 
560  K 
620  K 
680  K 
750  K 
820  K 


PARTS 

RCQ-105 

RCQ-115 

RCO-125 

RCQ-135 

RCQ-155 

RCO-165 

RCQ-185 

RCQ-205 

RCQ-225 

RCQ-245 

RCQ-275 

RCO-305 

RCO-335 

RCQ-365 

RCQ-395 

RCQ-435 

RCQ-475 

RCQ-S15 

RCO-565 

RCQ-625 

RCQ-685 

RCQ-755 

RCO-825 


VALUE 

1.0  M 

1.1  M 

1.2  M 

1.3  M 

1.5  M 

1.6  M 

1.8  M 
2.0  M 

2.2  M 

2.4  M 

2.7  M 

3.0  M 

3.3  M 

3.6  M 

3.9  M 
4.3  M 

4.7  M 

5.1  M 
5.6  M 

6.2  M 

6.8  M 

7.5  M 
8.2  M 
9.1  M 

10  M 


RCO-914  910  K  RCQ-915 

TO  ORDER,  YOU  MUST  ADD  A  QUANTITY  CODE  TO  THE  PART  # 

"BLANK"  =  PACKAGE  OF  4  "L"  =  PACKAGE  OF  50  "M"  =  PACKAGE  OF  1,000 

SHIPPING  WT.  1  OZ.  SHIPPING  WT.  1  OZ.  i_4 SHIPPING  WT.  1  LB.      $14.00 

on*  1-19 $1.00  5-9 $13.00 


20+ 


$    .80 


IF  YOU  WISH: 

8  PCS.  OF  A  47  K  RESISTOR .... 
150  PCS.  OF  A  2.2  M  RESISTOR . 


10-24 $12.00 

25+  Call  For  Price 

EXAMPLE  OF  HOW  TO  ORDER 

QTY.  ORDERED PART  NUMBER UNJT AMOUNT 


RCQ-473 


.29 


.58 


RCQ-225L 


1.00 


3.00 


vs 


2.000  PCS 

.  OF  A  390  ohm  RESISTOR  .... 

2 

RCQ-391M 

14.00                 28.00         j 

TRANSISTORS 

Sir,  ,  ■■.  mo  REi 

DIODES 

t£ 

POLARITY 

VCE 

IC(MA) 

HFE 

F(MHZ) 

'ACKAGE  OF 

100  + 

PIV 

AMPS 

APPLIC. 

PACKAGE  OF 

100 

2N697 

NPN 

40V 

150 

120 

30 

2/$1.18 

$  .50 

IN1183 

50V 

35A 

RECT. 

1/$2.26 

$1.74 

2N2219A 

NPN 

40V 

800 

200 

300 

2/S1.00 

$  .40 

IN4001 

50V 

1A 

RECT. 

5/$1.00 

$10.00 

2N2221A 

NPN 

30V 

800 

120 

250 

2/51.00 

$  .35 

IN4002 

100V 

1A 

RECT. 

5/51.00 

$10.00 

2N2222A 

NPN 

40V 

800 

300 

300 

3/$1.00 

$  .27 

IN  4003 

200V 

1A 

RECT. 

5/51.00 

$10.00 

2N2904A 

PNP 

60V 

600 

40 

3WT 

2/S1.00 

$  .41 

IN4004 

400V 

1A 

RECT. 

S/$1.00 

$12.00 

2N2906A 

PNP 

60V 

600 

40 

1.8WT 

27$1.00 

$  .40 

IN  4005 

600V 

1A 

RECT. 

4I$1.00 

$14.50 

2N2907A 

PNP 

60V 

600 

100 

200 

3/S1.00 

$  .27 

IN  4006 

800V 

1A 

RECT. 

4/$1.00 

$16.00 

2N3053 

NPN 

40V 

700 

250 

5WT 

2/$1.40 

$  .50 

IN  4007 

1000V 

1A 

RECT. 

47$1.00 

$18.50 

2N3054 

NPN 

55V 

4A 

100 

75WT 

$1.42 

$1.23 

IN4148 

75V 

10MA 

SIG. 

5/S1.00 

$10.00 

2N3055 

NPN 

60V 

15A 

70 

115WT 

$  .98 

$  .75 

IN5400 

50V 

3A 

RECT. 

3/$1.19 

$30.00 

2N3904 

NPN 

40V 

200 

300 

300 

5/$1.00 

$  .1* 

IN  5402 

200/V 

3A 

RECT. 

3/$1.49 

$40.00 

2N3906 

PNP 

40V 

200 

300 

250 

5/$  1.00 

$  .14 

IN5404 

400V 

3A 

RECT. 

3/$1.79 

$50.00 

2N4400 

NPN 

40V 

600 

150 

200 

4711.00 

$  .15 

/T 

>. 

2N4401 

NPN 

40V 

600 

300 

250 

4/$1.00 

$  .15 

(k 

k 

2N4402 
2N4403 

PNP 
PNP 

40V 
40V 

600 
600 

150 
300 

150 
200 

4/$1.00 

4/J1.00 

$  .15 
$  .15 

^ 

y 

ZENER  DIODES 

/C 

2N5400 
2N5401 

PNP 
PNP 

120V 
150  V 

600 
600 

180 
240 

310MW 
310MW 

2/$1.00 
2/51.00 

$  .40 
$  .40 

Vz 

WATT 

It  ma 

PACKAGE  OF                               100 

2N6028 
2N6282 

PUT 
NDL 

40V 
60V 

375MW 
10A 

PROG 
1.8K 

UJT 

160W 

2711.00 

$4.12 

$  .45 

$3.55 

IN4728A 
IN4729A 

3.3V 
3.6V 

1W 
1W 

76MA 
69MA 

4/J1.00 
4/$1.00 

$16.00 
$16.00 

2N6285 

PDL 

60V 

10A 

1.8K 

160W 

$4.95 

$4.25 

IN4730A 

3.9V 

1W 

64MA 

4/$1.00 

$16.00 

MPF102 

NJFT 

25V 

10 

VHF 

AMP 

2/51.00 

$  .45 

IN4731A 

4.3V 

1W 

58MA 

4/$1.00 

$16.00 

PJFT 

40V 

10 

GEN 

PRPS 

271.60 

$  .60 

IN4732A 

4.7V 

1W 

53MA 

4I$1.00 

$16.00 

IN4733A 

5.1V 

1W 

49MA 

mi.oo 

MPS2222A 

PNP 

40V 

800 

300 

300 

4/S1-00 

$  .16 

$16.00 

MPS2907 

PNP 

60V 

600 

100 

200 

4/51.00 

$  .16 

IN  4734  A 

5.6V 

1W 

45MA 

4/$1.00 

$16.00 

MPSA13 

NDL 

30V 

300 

5K 

200 

mi.oo 

$  .30 

IN4735A 

6.2V 

1W 

41  MA 

4/51.00 

$16.00 

MPSA63 

PDL 

30V 

300 

5K 

200 

mi.oo 

$  .30 

IN  4736  A 

6.8V 

1W 

37MA 

4/$1.00 

$16.00 

MJE2955 

PNP 

60V 

10A 

90W 

2 

$2.98 

$2.36 

IN4737A 

7.5V 

1W 

34MA 

47$1.00 

$16.00 

MJE2955T 

PNP 

60V 

10A 

75W 

2 

$1.19 

$  .95 

IN4738A 

8.2V 

1W 

31MA 

4/$1.00 

$16.00 

MJE3055 

NPN 

60V 

10A 

90W 

2 

$1.98 

$1.60 

IN4739A 

9.1V 

1W 

28MA 

4/51.00 

$16.00 

MJE3055T 

NPN 

60V 

10A 

75W 

2 

$  .98 

$  .90 

IN4740A 

10V 

1W 

25MA 

4/$1.00 

$16.00 

T1P29A 

NPN 

60V 

3A 

75 

30W 

2/51.40 

$  .55 

IN  4741 A 

11V 

1W 

23MA 

4/$1.00 

$16.00 

TIP30A 

PNP 

60V 

3A 

75 

30W 

2/11.60 

$  .60 

IN4742A 

12V 

1W 

21  MA 

4/$1.00 

$16.00 

TIP31A 

NPN 

60V 

5A 

50 

40W 

2/S1.60 

$  .65 

IN4743A 

13V 

1W 

19MA 

4/$1.00 

$16.00 

TIP32A 

PNP 

60V 

5A 

50 

40W 

2/51.60 

$  .65 

IN4744A 

15V 

1W 

17MA 

4I$1.00 

$16.00 

TIP41A 

NPN 

60V 

10A 

75 

65W 

{.98 

$  .85 

IN4746A 

18V 

1W 

14MA 

4/$1.00 

$16.00 

TIP42C 

PNP 

60V 

10A 

75 

65W 

11.49 

$1.10 

IN4747A 

20V 

1W 

12.5MA 

4/S1.00 

$16.00 

TIP48 

NPN 

300V 

1A 

150 

40W 

$1.10 

$  .90 

IN4751A 
IN4754A 

30V 
39V 

1W 
1W 

8.5MA 
6.5MA 

4/$1.00 
3/$1.00 

$16.00 

TIP49 

NPN 

350V 

1A 

150 

40W 

$1.20 

$  .95 

$20.00 

TIP120 

NDL 

60V 

8A 

1K 

65W 

$1.40 

$1.15 

IN4757A 

51V 

1W 

5MA 

mi.oo 

$20.00 

TIP127 

PDL 

100  V 

6A 

1K 

65W 

$1.98 

$1.55 

IN4759A 

62V 

1W 

4MA 

mi.oo 

$38.00 

2N5060 

SCR 

30V 

.8A 

mi.so 

$  .60 

IN4761A 

75V 

1W 

3.3MA 

mi.oo 

$42.00 

C106B1 

SCR 

250V 

4A 

mi.oo 

$  .39 

IN4763A 

91V 

1W 

2.8MA 

mi.oo 

$42.00 

T2800B 

TRIAC 

200V 

8A 

$1.49 

$1.20 

IN4764A 

100  V 

1W 

2.5MA 

mi.oo 

$42.00 

80  —  22 


BYTE  November  1980 


PLEASE  ORDER  BY  PART  NUMBER 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 

ALUMINUM 

ELECTROLYTIC 

CAPACITORS 


11 

AXIAL  LEAD 

100  PAC 

L. 

1 

1000  PAC 

PART  NO. 

SIZE 

PRICE  PER 

ADD  •C"  TO 

ADO  "M"  TO 

VALVE/VOLTAGE 

(1NCHESI 

PKG.  OF: 

END  OF  PART  # 

END  OF  PART  # 

CA-1/50 

.19  x 

.49 

6/1.00 

11.00 

90.00 

CA-Z.Z/50 

.19  x 

.49 

6/1.00 

11.00 

90.00 

CA-3.3/50 

.24  x 

.49 

6/1.00 

11.00 

90.00 

CA-4.7/50 

.24  x 

.49 

6/1.00 

11.00 

90.00 

CA-10/50 

.24  x 

.63 

6/1.00 

11.00 

90.00 

CA-22/16 

.24  x 

.49 

6/1.00 

11.00 

90.00 

CA-ZZ/50 

.32  x 

.63 

4/1.00 

15.00 

120.00 

C A  33/16 

.24  x 

.49 

5/1.00 

14.00 

110.00 

CA-33/35 

.32  x 

.63 

4/1.00 

17.00 

130.00 

CA-47/16 

.24  x 

.63 

4/1.00 

15.00 

115.00 

CA-47/35 

.32  x 

.79 

3/1.00 

20.00 

140.00 

CA  100/16 

.32  x 

.63 

4/1.00 

18.00 

14000 

CA-100/35 

.40  x 

.79 

3/1.20 

27.00 

220.00 

C A  220/16 

.40  x 

.79 

3/1.00 

22.00 

170.00 

CA-220735 

.40  x 

1.24 

2/1.00 

30.00 

230.00 

CA-330/16 

.40  x 

.99 

3/1.20 

25.00 

200.00 

CA-330/35 

.51  x 

1.24 

3/1.20 

36.00 

30000 

CA-470/10 

.40  x 

.99 

3/1.20 

25.00 

200.00 

CA-470/16 

.40  x 

1.24 

2/1.00 

32.00 

240.00 

CA-470/35 

.63  x 

1.24 

2/1.40 

42.00 

340.00 

CA-1 000/10 

.51  x 

.99 

2/1.00 

34.00 

270.00 

CA  1000/16 

.51  x 

1.24 

2/1.20 

38.00 

295.00 

CA  1000/35 

.63  x 

1.58 

.98 

60.00 

520.00 

CA-2200/10 

.63  x 

1.24 

2/1.50 

49.00 

390.00 

CA-2200/25 

.87  x 

1.98 

1.10 

74.00 

605.00 

CA-3300/10 

.63  x 

1.58 

1.00 

65.00 

500.00 

CA-3300/25 

.87  x 

1.98 

1.50 

100.00 

750.00 

CA4700/10 

.71  x 

1.58 

1.20 

80.00 

600.00 

CA-4700/25 

.99  x 

1.98 

2.00 

130.00 

1000.00 

RADIAL  LEAD 


PART  NO. 

VALVE/VOLTAGE 


SIZE 
[INCHES! 


PRICE  PER 
PKG.  OF: 


100  PAC 

ADD  V  TO 

END  OF  PART  # 


1000  PAC 

ADO  "M"  TO 

END  OF  PART  # 


CR-1/50 

.20  x 

.45 

6/1.00 

CR-2.2/50 

.20  x 

.45 

6/1.00 

CR-3.3/50 

.20  x 

.45 

6/1.00 

CR-4.7/50 

.20  x 

.45 

6/1.00 

CR  10/50 

.24  x 

.45 

6/1.00 

CR-22/16 

.24  x 

.45 

6/1.00 

CR-22/35 

.32  x 

.49 

6/1.00 

CR-33/16 

.24  x 

.45 

6/1.00 

CR-33/35 

.39  x 

.49 

6/1.00 

CR-47/16 

.32  x 

.49 

6/1.00 

CR-47/35 

.39  x 

.49 

5/1.00 

CR-100/16 

.39  x 

.49 

5/1.00 

CR-100/35 

.39  x 

.63 

4/1.00 

CR  220/16 

.39  x 

.63 

4/1.00 

CR-220/35 

.51  x 

.79 

3/1.00 

CR  330/16 

.51  x 

.79 

3/1.00 

CR  330/35 

.63  x 

.99 

2/1.00 

CR-470/16 

.51  x 

.79 

3/1.00 

CR-470/35 

.63  x 

.99 

2/1.20 

CR  1000/10 

.51  x 

.79 

3/1.20 

CR  1000/16 

.63  x 

.99 

3/1.40 

CR  1 000/35 

.71  x 

1.40 

2/1.50 

CR-2200/10 

.63  x 

1.24 

2/1.20 

CR  2200/25 

.87  x 

1.58 

1.00 

CR  3300/10 

.63  x 

1.40 

2/1.60 

CR  4700/10 

.71  x 

1.58 

1.00 

8.00 

8.00 

8.00 

8.00 

9.00 

9.00 

12.00 

9.00 

13.00 

12.00 

14.00 

13.00 

15.00 

15.00 

24.00 

22.00 

32.00 

24.00 

40.00 

25.00 

31.00 

57.00 

44.00 

70.00 

60.00 

70.00 


65.00 

65.00 

65.00 

65.00 

70.00 

70.00 

95.00 

70.00 

103.00 

95.00 

110.00 

103.00 

115.00 

115.00 

180.00 

150.00 

250.00 

180.00 

310.00 

200.00 

230.00 

450.00 

310.00 

550.00 

400.00 

550.00 


"C"  =  Package  of  100 


Volume  Discount:  C-packages.  1-9  None.  10-24  less  10%.  25  -  less  15%.  M-packages.  1-4  None.  5-9 
less  10%.  10-up  Call  for  price  Axial  and  Radial  Capacitors  may  be  combined  in  standard  packages 
for  best  price.  Other  values/voltages  available  in  1000  (M)  packages  -  Call  for  price. 

"BLANK"  =  Package  of  (    ) 
"M"  =  Package  of  1,000 

Exact  size  may  vary.  The  dimensions  above  are  for  reference 
only. 

CRYSTALS 

PART  tf/FBEQ. 


XTL1.OO0MH 

6800CPU.  STD.  CLOCK 

$4.95 

$4.45 

XTLI.B43MH 

4411  BAUD  RATE  GEN 

S4.95 

$4.45 

XTL2.000MH 

Z80  CPU.  STD.  CLOCK 

$4.95 

$4.45 

XTL3.000MH 

STANDARD  CLOCK  FREO. 

54  95 

$4.45 

XTL3.276MH 

ICM7025.STOPWATCH 

$4.95 

$4.45 

XTL3.579MH 

TV  COLOR  BURST  SM  CASE 

$395 

$3.50 

XTL4.0O0MH 

Z80A  CPU,  STD  CLOCK 

$3.95 

$3.50 

XTL6.000MH 

STANDARD  CLOCK  FREQ. 

$395 

$3.50 

XTL10.00MH 

STANDARD  CLOCK  FREQ. 

$3.95 

$3.50 

XTLIB.OOMH 

8080,  8008,  8224 

S3.95 

$3.50 

XTL20.00MK 

STANDARD  CLOCK  FREO. 

$3.95 

$3  50 

Ar« 

J  DISC 

Ceramic 

CODE 

VOLT- 

Lead 

Lead 

LETTER 

AGE 

Dtp, 

Spacing 

Thk. 

Dia. 

Inches 

A 

1000V 

.290 

.250 

.156 

.025 

B 

1000V 

.385 

.250 

.156 

.025 

C 

1000V 

.590 

.375 

.156 

.025 

D 

50V 

.276 

.156 

.250 

.025 

E 

50V 

.315 

.156 

.250 

.025 

F 

50V 

.355 

.156 

.375 

.025 

G 

50V 

.473 

.156 

.375 

.025 

H 

25V 

.394 

.157 

.250 

.025 

1 

25V 

.484 

.157 

.250 

.025 

J 

25V 

.532 

.157 

.375 

.025 

ARCO  DISC  CERAMIC 


Cote 
Lottor 


Prtct  |Mf 
Pickigt  of 


-C  100  j»c 

Add  -C  to 

ond  of  port  * 


-M  lOOO  pic 

Add  -M  to 

ond  of  port  * 


CCO-3R3 

33pf 

A 

CCD-050 

5pf 

A 

CCD-060 

6  pf 

A 

CCD-6R8 

6.8pf 

A 

CCD-7R5 

75pf 

A 

CCD-080 

8pf 

A 

CCD-100 

10pf 

A 

CCD120 

12pf 

A 

CCD-150 

15pt 

A 

CCD-180 

18pf 

A 

CCD-200 

20pf 

A 

CCO220 

22pf 

A 

CCD-240 

24pf 

A 

CCD-250 

25pf 

A 

CCD270 

27pf 

A 

CCD300 

30pf 

A 

CCD-330 

33pf 

A 

CCD-390 

39pt 

A 

CCD-470 

47pf 

A 

CCD-500 

50pt 

A 

CCD-510 

51pf 

A 

CCD-560 

56pf 

A 

CCD-680 

68pf 

A 

CCD-750 

75pl 

A 

CCD-820 

82pf 

A 

CCD-910 

91pf 

A 

CCD-101 

100pf 

A 

CCD-121 

120pf 

A 

CCD-131 

l30pf 

A 

CCD-151 

150pf 

A 

CCD-181 

180pf 

A 

CCD-201 

200pf 

A 

CCD-221 

220pt 

A 

CCD-241 

240pl 

A 

CCD-251 

250pf 

A 

CCD-271 

270pf 

A 

CCD-301 

300pf 

A 

CCD-331 

330pf 

A 

CCD-351 

350pf 

A 

CCD-361 

360pf 

A 

CCD-391 

390pf 

A 

CCD-401 

400pf 

A 

CCD-471 

470pf 

A 

CCD-501 

500pf 

A 

CCD-511 

510pf 

A 

CCD-561 

seopf 

A 

CCD-601 

eoopf 

A 

CCD-681 

esopf 

A 

CCD-751 

750pf 

A 

CCD-821 

820pf 

A 

CCD-911 

910pf 

A 

CCD-102G 

OOtuf 

A 

CCD-122 

O012uf 

R 

CCD-132 

0013uf 

B 

CCD-152G 

0015uf 

B 

CCD-162 

0O16uf 

B 

CCD-182 

0018uf 

B 

CCD-202G 

002ul 

H 

CCD-222G 

0022uf 

B 

CCD-252G 

0025uf 

B 

CCD-272G 

0027uf 

B 

CCD-302G 

003uf 

B 

CCD-332G 

0033uf 

c: 

CCD-392G 

0O39uf 

c 

CCD-402G 

0O4uf 

<; 

CCD-432G 

0043uf 

c 

CCD-472 

0O47uf 

c 

TCD-502Z 

0O5ul 

0 

TCD-103Z 

01uf 

F 

TCD-203Z 

02uf 

F 

TCD-253Z 

02Suf 

(i 

TCA333Z 

033uf 

H 

TCA-5032 

05uf 

1 

TCA-683Z 

088uf 

J 

TCA-104Z 

1uf 

J 

IF  YOU  WISH: 

18  PCS.  of  2.2  ul/SOV  Capacitor  (Axial) .... 
200  PCS.  oi  100  uf/16V  Capacitor  (Radial)  . 
1000  PCS.  of  2,200  U1/25V  Capacitor  (Axial) 


4/29C                          $460 

$37,00 

4/29*                        $460 

$37  00 

4/ 29c                      $4  60 

$37  00 

4/29*                        $460 

$37,00 

4/29*                        $460 

$37  00 

4/29t                      $460 

$37,00 

4/29C                      $4.60 

$37.00 

4/29C                      $460 

$37.00 

4/29t                        $4.60 

$37.00 

4/29C                      $460 

$37  00 

4/29*                     $4.60 

$37  00 

4/29C                     $4.60 

$37  00 

4/29C                     $460 

$37  00 

4/29«                     $460 

$37.00 

4129c                      $4.60 

$37.00 

4/29C                     $460 

$37.00 

4/29C                     $4.60 

$37  00 

4/29C                      $4.60 

$37  00 

3/29C                      $5.40 

$43  00 

3/29C                      $540 

$43  00 

3/29C                      $540 

$4300 

3/29*                      $5.40 

$43.00 

3/29*                      $540 

$43.00 

3/29C                     $5.40 

$4300 

1'29*                      $5.40 

$43.00 

3/29*                      $5.40 

$43.00 

3/29*                     $540 

$43  00 

3/29*                     $540 

$43.00 

3/29*                     $6.80 

$54.00 

3/29*                     $680 

$54.00 

3<29c                      $680 

$54  00 

3/29*                     $6.80 

$54.00 

3/29*                      $6.80 

$54.00 

4/29*                     $4.90 

$40.00 

4/29*                     $4.90 

$40.00 

4/29*                     $4.90 

$40.00 

4/29*                     $4.90 

$40.00 

4/29*                     $5.60 

$45.00 

3/29*                     $6.00 

$48.00 

2/29*                     $9.20 

$7400 

2/29*                   $1060 

$85  00 

U MUST  ADD 

=  TO  THE  PART  # 

QTY. 

ORDERED  PART  NUMBER 

UNIT    AMOUNT 

3        CA-2.2/50 

1.00       3.00 

2        CR-100/16C 

13.00      26.00 

1         CA-2200/25M  605.00   605.00' 

PLEASE  ORDER  BY  PART  NUMBER 


BYTE  November  1980 


80  —  23 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


WINCHESTER  ELECTRONICS 


m 

Litton 

D-Subminiature  Connector 


V 


p  =  Plug-Male 
S  -  Socket-Female 
C  =  Cover-Hood 


PART  NO 


NO.  OF 
PINS 


1-9 


10-24        25  99      100-249 


IDC-DE9P 
IDC-DE9S 
I0C-DE9C 

IDC-DA15P 
IDC-DA1SS 
IDC-DA15C 

IDC-DB  25P 
IDC-DB  25S 
IDC-DB  25C 


9 
9 
9 

15 
15 
15 

25 
25 
25 


4.20 
4.50 
1.25 

4.35 
5.00 
1.40 

6.25 
6.60 
1.60 


4.00 
4.20 
1.10 

4.20 
4.85 
1.25 

6.00 
6.35 
1.50 


IDC-DC37P           37          8.80  8.00 

IDC-DC37S           37        11.00  10.25 

IDC-DC37C           37          2.25  2.00 

Right  Angle  D-Sub.  Conn 


3.60 
3.80 
1.00 

3.75 
4.35 
1.10 

5.20 
5.60 
1.35 

7.20 
9.20 
1.80 


3.20 
3.40 


3.40 

3.90 
.95 

4.70 
5.00 
1.20 

6.40 
8.20 
1.60 


RIGHT  ANGLE  D-SUBMINATURE 
CONNECTOR 


PART  NO. 


NO.  OF 
PINS 


1-9 


10-24        25-99     100-249 


IDCRADE9P 

IDCRADE9S 

IDCRADA15P 

IDCRADA15S 

IDCRADB25P 

IDCRADB25S 

IDCRADC37P 

IDCRADC37S 


9 
9 

15 
15 
25 
25 
37 


4.50 
4.70 
4.80 
5.10 
6.30 
6.75 
9.00 


4.10 
4.30 
4.50 
4.90 
6.00 
6.40 
8.10 


11.50        10.60 


3.70 
3.90 
4.20 
4.70 
5.25 
5.50 
7.30 
9.50 


3.30 

3.50 
3.90 
4.40 
4.75 
5.00 
6.50 
8.50 


subminiature  toggle  switches 

6  Amps  125  VAC 


7  Amps 

30  VDC 

PRICE 

SPOT  STANDARD  TOGGLE 

1-9 

10-24 

25-99 

CAL-STH 

(ON-N0NE-0N) 

S2.60 

S2.40 

S2.20 

CAL-STI2 

(0N-0FF-0N) 

2.80 

2.50 

2.30 

CAL-ST13 

IM0M0N-0FF-M0M0N) 

2.80 

2.50 

2.30 

CAL-STI4 

(ON-0FF-MOM  ON) 

2.80 

2.50 

2.30 

CAL-ST15 

(0N-N0NE-M0M  ON) 

2  80 

2.50 

230 

RS232and  "D"  SUB-MINIATURE 
CONNECTORS 

P-  Plug,  Male  Type  -  S  -  Socket.  Female  Type  - 


PART  NO. 


DESCRIPTION 


1-! 


CND-DE9P  9  PIN  MALE 

CN0-0E9S  9  PIN  FEMALE 

CND-0E9C  9  PIN  COVER 

CN0-DA15P  15  PIN  MALE 

CND-DA15S  15  PIN  FEMALE 

CND-0A15C  15  PIN  COVER 

CND-DB25P  25  PIN  MALE 

CND-DB25S  25  PIN  FEMALE 

CND-DB51212  1  PC.  GREY  HOOD 

CNDP25H  2  PC.  GREY  HOOD 

CND-0B51226  2  PC.  BLACK  HOOD 

CND-DC37P  37  PIN  MALE 

CND-DC37S  37  PIN  FEMALE 

CND-DC37C  37  PIN  COVER 

CND-D050P  50  PIN  MALE 

CND-0050S  50  PIN  FEMALE 

CND-0050C  50  PIN  COVER 

CND-D20418  HARDWARE  SET  2  PR. 

RS23?   nRP^P  FIA 
CND-RS2328FCLASS1CABLE8COKT8FT  ««>•*    SI7.95   $15.95 

nuu—MM  CENT  700  SERIES 

CND-5730360  printer  CONNECTOR 


$  2.10 
S  2.70 
S  1.50 
$  2.75 
S  3.95 
$  1.50 
$  3.50 
$  4.60 
S  1.60 
S  1.50 
S  1.90 
S  5.80 
S  8.70 
$  1.80 
S  8.75 
SI  1.65 
S  2.00 
S  1.00 


C  =  Covet 
PRICE 
10-24 
$  1.90 
S  2.40 
$  1.25 
S  2.45 
S  3.60 
S  1.30 
J  3.25 
$  4.35 
S  1.45 
S  1.25 
S  1.65 


Hood 


25-99 

$  1.70 

$  210 

S  1.10 

S  2.15 

S  3.20 

S  1.10 

S  3.00 

S  4.20 

S  1.30 

S  1.10 

S  1.45 


S  5.10  S  4.45 

i  7.70  S  6.70 

S  1.55  S  1.30 

$  7.75  J  6.70 

S10.25  S  8.90 

S  1.80  S  1.60 

S  0.80  $  0.70 


S  9.00    S  7.50   S  6.00 


FLEX-COM 

Edgecard  Connector 


ffiHBBBBBBBB 


d-i 


HHHfflfflEHSEE 


PART  NO 


NO.  OF 
PINS 


1-9 


PRICE 
10-24        25-99     100-249 


IDC-20CE 
IDC-26CE 
IDC-34CE 

IDC-40CE 
IDC-50CE 


10/20 
13/26 
17/34 
20/40 
25/50 


4.35 
5.00 
6.00 
6.90 
7.25 


4.15 
4.75 
5.70 
6.50 
7.00 


3.75 

4.30 
5.10 
5.80 

6.30 


3.30 

3.80 
4.50 
5.25 

5.40 


Socket  Connector 


rtMWWH—WWMMM 


PART  NO. 


NU.OF 
PINS 


1-9 


PRICE 
10-24        25-99     100-249 


IDC-20SKT 
IDC-26SKT 
IDC-34SKT 
IDC-40SKT 
IOC-50SKT 


10/20 
13/26 
17/34 
20/40 
25/50 


2.75 

3.50 
4.50 
5.40 
6.50 


2.50 
3.20 
4.20 
5.00 
6.00 


2.25 
2.85 
3.75 
4.50 
5.40 


2.00 

2.30 
3.30 
3.90 
4.75 


Header  Connector 


Right  Angle  Soldertail  GOLD  Header 


PART  NO. 


1-9 


10-24         25-99       100-249 


IDC-RAH20ST 
IOC-RAH26ST 
IDC-RAH34ST 
IDC-RAH40ST 
IDC-RAH50ST 


1.90 
2.25 
2.95 
3.60 
4.30 


1.60 
2.00 
2.60 
3.00 
3.60 


1.45 
1.80 
2.35 
2.70 

3.25 


1.30 
1.60 
2.10 
2.40 
2.90 


RIGHT  ANGLE  WIRE  WRAP 
GOLD  HEADER 


PART  NO. 


1-9 


10-24        25-99      100-249 


IDC-RAH20WW 
IDC-RAH26WW 
IDC-RAH34WW 
IDC-RAH40WW 
IDC-RAH50WW 


4.15 
5.30 
5.95 
7.00 
7.95 


3.60 
4.30 
5.00 
6.00 
6.80 


3.25 
3.90 
4.75 
5.40 
6.20 


2.90 
3.50 

4.50 
4.80 
5.50 


STRAIGHT  SOLDERTAIL  GOLD  HEADER 


NO.  PINS       1-9  10-24        25-99     100-249 


IDCSTH20ST 

10/20 

1.85 

1.55 

1.40 

1.30 

IDCSTH26ST 

13/26 

2.20 

1.95 

1.75 

1.55 

IDCSTH34ST 

17/34 

2.90 

2.55 

2.30 

2.05 

IDCSTH40ST 

20/40 

3.55 

2.95 

2.65 

2.40 

IDCSTH50ST 

25/50 

4.25 

3.55 

3.20 

2.85 

STRAIGHT  WIRE  WRAP  GOLD  HEADER 

PART  NO.         NO.  PINS      1-9         10-24        25-99     100-249 


IOCSTH20WW 
IDCSTH26WW 
IDCSTH34WW 

IDCSTH40WW 
IDCSTH50WW 


10/20 
13/26 
17/34 
20/40 
25/50 


4.20 
5.25 
5.90 
6.95 
7.90 


3.55 
4.25 
4.95 
5.95 
6.75 


3.20 
3.85 
4.70 
5.35 
6.15 


2.65 
3.45 
4.45 
4.75 
5.45 


HEADER  CONNECTOR  EJECTOR 


The  IDCEJ  provides  an  ejector  and  positive  lock  for  socket 
connectors  when  used  with  any  of  the  header  connectors  listed. 
Easy  installation  and  low  cost  provide  easy  extraction,  when 
desired,  for  your  IDC  socket  interconnects.  Order  2  for  each 
connector. 


QTY. 


PRICE 


IDCEJ5 
IOCEJC 


pkg  5 
pkg  100 


S1.00 
$10.00 


IDC  System 

RIBBON  CABLE 


PART  NO. 


Color  Coded  Laminated  Cable  lor  insulation 
Displacement  28  Guage.  7  Strand 

NO.  OF  PRICE  PER  SPOOL 


CONDUCTORS 


10  Ft. 


100  Ft. 


IDC-09CC 
IDC-14CC 
IDC-16CC 
IOC-20CC 
IDC-25CC 
IDC-26CC 
IDC-34CC 
IDC-40CC 
IDC-50CC 


9 

14 
16 
20 
25 
26 
34 
40 
50 


3.80 

4.75 

5.50 

7.00 

6.50 

8.50 

11.00 

13.00 

16.00 


30.00 
40.00 
45.00 
60.00 
72.00 
72.00 
100.00 
115.00 
145.00 


GRAY  LAMINATED  CABLE  FOR  INSULATION  DISPLACEMENT 
28  Gauge  7  Strand 


PART  NO. 


NO.  OF 
CONDUCTORS 


PRICE  PER  SPOOL 
10  Ft.  100  Ft. 


IDC-09GY 
IDC-14GY 
IDC-16GY 
IDC-20GY 
IDC-25GY 
IDC-26GY 
IDC-34GY 
IDC-40GY 
IDC-50GY 


9 

14 
16 
20 
25 
26 
34 
40 
50 


2.50 
3.50 
4.00 
4.80 
6.00 
6.00 
8.30 
10.00 
12.00 


18.05 
28.00 
32.00 
40.00 
50.00 
50.00 
66.00 
77.00 
95.00 


Dip  Plugs 


TTTTT 


NO.  OF 
PINS 


1-9 


10-24        25-99     100-249 


IDC-14DP 
IDC-16DP 
IDC-24DP 


14 
16 
24 


1.50 
1.70 
2.50 


1.40 

1.60 
2.20 


1.25 
1.45 
2.00 


1.10 
1.30 
1.80 


TRANSITION  CONNECTOR 


PART  NO. 


NO.  OF 
PINS 


1-9 


PRICE 
10-24        25-99     100-249 


INSTALLATION/ASSEMBLY  TOOLS 

IDC-1080        Arbor  Press  with  Ram  for  all 

connectors  except  D-Subminiature 

order  platens  below.  12  LBS.  $180.00 
IDC-013031     Platen  &  Ram  for  D-Subminiature 

Connectors  S  50.00 

IDC-1083        Platen  for  Edgecard  Connector  $  35.00 

IDC-10811       Platen  for  Socket  Connector  S  35.00 

IDC-1096        Platen  for  24  Pin  Dip  Plug  only  $35.00 

IOC-10871       Platen  for  14  &  16  Pin  Dip  Plug  only  S  35.00 
IDC-1084        Platen  for  Transition  Connector 

SH.  WT.  1  LB.  $  35.00 


80  —  24  BYTE  November  1980 


PLEASE  ORDER  BY  PART  NUMBER 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


Texas  Instruments 

FACE  GRIP  LOW  PROFILE 

SOLDER  TAIL  DIP  SOCKETS 

C85  SERIES 


•  Face  grip  design   provides  maximum  retention 
force 

•Anti-wicking  feature 

•  Redundant  contact  points 
SPECIFICATIONS 
Material 

A   Body-91V-0  polyester 

B   Contact— copper  nickel  alloy 

C    Finish  —  200  microinches  tin  alloy  (mm  (stripe 

NOTES 

A  Operating  temperature— 40°C  to  +  100°C 

B   Contacts  have  redundant  spring  elements 

C    Accommodates  standard  IC  leads  up  to 
014  thick  and    025  wide 

0  Contact  is  designed  and  oriented  to  the  insulator 
to  grasp  the  broad  "face"  of  the  IC  lead,  allow 
ing  tor  low  insertion  and  high  retention  forces 


E  Socket  is  designed  to  achieve  maximum  density 
on  boards 

F  Sockets  may  be  mounted  end  to  end  on  .100" 
centers  continuous  line  or  on  .400"  centers 
row  to  row 

G  Socket  is  designed  to  prevent  IC  leads  from  con- 
tacting PC  board 

H  Closed  entry  feature  -  along  with  chamfered  side 
walls  -  provided  to  facilitate  automatic  IC  inser- 
tion and  protect  the  IC  leads  against  damage 

I  Strengthened  socket  legs  allow  tor  automatic 
socket  insertion  into  PC  board 

J   Anti-wicking  feature  built  into  contact  leg 

K  Design  to  achieve  outstanding  insertion/with- 
drawal characteristics 


PART 
NO. 


PINS 


1-' 


PRICE 
10-49        50-99 


TIS-08LP 
TIS-14LP 
TIS-16LP 
TIS-18LP 
TIS-20LP 
TIS-22LP 
TIS-24LP 
TIS-28LP 
TIS-40LP 


08 
14 
16 
18 
20 
22 
24 
28 
40 


N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
.30 
.30 
.35 
.40 
45 
50 


.15 

.18 
20 
.25 
.25 
.30 
.35 
.40 
.45 


.10 
.15 
.18 
22 
.23 
.25 
.30 
.35 
.42 


08 
14 
.16 
18 
20 
.22 
.24 
.28 
40 


.07 
.12 
.13 
.15 
.17 
.19 
.20 
.24 
.35 


.06 
.11 
.12 
.13 
.145 
17 
.18 
.21 
.31 


-MINIMUM  ORDER  SI  00  Per  Line  item 


DIP  PLUGS 


PART  NO. 


1-9 


PRICE 
10-24  25-99     100-249 


KNX-0BDP 

KNX-14DP 
KNX-16DP 
KNX-24DP 
KNX-40DP 


14 
16 
24 

40 


.50 

.65 

.70 

1.15 

1.90 


.45 

.60 

.65 

1.05 

1.70 


.43 
.58 
.62 
.90 
1.60 


.40 
.55 
.58 
.95 
1.50 


Sccket  and  Dip  Plug  priced  based  on  gold  not  exceeding  $700  per  oz. 


ZERO  INSERTION 
FORCE  TEST  SOCKETS 

IrTfrnfTrnfTl  ^^ 

yiuyuuu: 


? 


n  in  1 1 


1-9  10-24  25-99 

ZIP-16DIP   $5.50  5.35  4.95 

ZIP-24DIP    $7.50  7.25  6.95 

ZIP-40DIP  $10.25  9.85  9.50 


•  Zero  insertion  pressure  (ZIP)  insertion  and  extraction .  •  Wide  entry  holes  to 
accommodate  maximum  number  of  device  types.  •  Contact  exit  on  even  .100 
spacing  for  convenience  in  board  mounting.  •  Built  in  "stop"  for  cam  handle 
prevents  "overthrow"  causing  plastic  damage.  •  Top  mount  assy.  Screws 
for  ease  of  replacement  of  worn  or  damaged  internal  components  •  General 
redesign  of  original  ZIP  DIP  incorporating  improvements  designed  to  extend 
life  and  reliability. 


vaoatMsoat 

N        iES  GOLD  3  LEVEL  WIRE  WRAP  SOCKETS 


•Deep  Chamfered  Closed 
Entry  Contacts 

•RN  Side  Wipe  Contact  Design 

•Terminal  Barbs  Allow 
Self-lock  into  PC  Board 

•Rugged  Socket  Body  Design 


PART  NO. 


1-9 


TRTUE*" 

10-24 


25-99 


100-249        250-999 


RNS-08WWG 
RNS-14WWG 
RNS-16WWG 
RNS-18WWG 
RNS-20WWG 
RNS-22WWG 
RNS-24WWG 
RNS-28WWG 
RNS-40WWG 


14 
16 
18 
20 
22 
24 
28 
40 


.50 

.60 

.65 

.85 

1.00 

1.25 

1.25 

1.60 

1.85 


.42 

.49 

.52 

.75 

.90 

1.15 

1.15 

1.50 

1.65 


.40 

.47 

.50 

.70 

.80 

1.10 

1.10 

1.40 

1.55 


.37 

.45 

.47 

.65 

.75 

1.05 

1.05 

1.30 

1.45 


.33 

.42 

.44 

.60 

.70 

1.00 

1.00 

1.20 

1.35 


Socket  prices  based  on  gold  npt  exceeding  $700  per  cz 


RN  ICA  HIGH  RELIABILITY  WIRE  WRAP  SOCKET 

•  30  fi  inch  gold  contact  •  Pin  socket  contacts  for  high  reliability  and  high  retention 
mounting  holes  •  End  and  side  stackable  •  3-Level  wrap  •  Low  profile  body  with. 


PRICE 

PART  NO. 

PINS 

1-9 

10-24 

25-99 

100-249 

250-999 

RNH-08HRW 

8 

1.10 

1.00 

.90 

.86 

.77 

RNH-14HRW 

14 

1.65 

1.55 

1.45 

1.30 

1.15 

RNH  16HRW 

16 

1.85 

1.65 

1.55 

1.40 

1.25 

RNH-18HRW 

18 

2.10 

1.90 

1.85 

1.65 

1.60 

RNH-20HRW 

20 

2.45 

2.10 

2.00 

1.80 

1.70 

RNH-22HRW 

22 

2.55 

2.30 

2.10 

2.00 

1.90 

RNH-24HRW 

24 

2.75 

2.50 

2.20 

2.10 

2.00 

RNH-28HRW 

28 

3.25 

3.00 

2.60 

2.50 

2.40 

RNH-40HRW 

40 

4.50 

4.25 

4.00 

3.60 

3.40 

PRECUT  WIRE  WRAP  WIRE 

PRECUT  WIRE  SAVES  TIME  AND  COSTS  LESS  THAN 

WIRE  ON  SPOOLS 

Kynar  precut  wire.  All  lengths  are  overall,  including  1"  strip  on  each  end.  Cdlors  and 
lengths  cannot  be  mixed  for  quantity  pricing.  Choose  from  colors  Red  (R),  Blue  (U), 
Black  (B).  and  Yellow  (Y). 


PRECUT  WIRE  KIT  ASSORTMENTS 


PART  NO. 


PRECUT  WIRE  100  PACK 

LENGTH     100/Bag  PART  NO. 


PGP025C* 
PGP030C 
PGP035C* 
PGP040C 
PGP045C" 
PGP050C" 


PART  NO. 


2.5" 
3.0" 
3.5" 
4.0" 
4.5" 
5.0" 


$1.25 
1.30 
1.37 
1.42 
1.48 
1.54 


PGP055C 
PGP060C* 
PGP070C* 
PGP080C" 
PGP090C- 
PGP100C* 


Length      100/Bag 


5.5" 
6.0" 
7.0" 
8.0" 
9.0" 
10.0" 


1.58 
1.65 
1.99 
2.14 
2.24 
2.39 


PRECUT  WIRE  500  PACK 

LENGTH     500/Bag         PART  NO. 


LENGTH     500/Bag 


PGP025D* 
PGP030D' 
PGP035D- 
PGP040O' 
PGP045D* 
PGP050D- 


2.5" 
3.0" 
3.5" 
4.0" 
4.5" 
5.0" 


$3.58 
3.86 
4.15 
4.44 
4.74 
5.04 


PGP055D* 
PGP060D' 
PGP070D' 
PGP080D* 
PGP090D- 
PGP100D* 


5.5" 

5.38 

6.0" 

5.66 

7.0" 

6.76 

8.0" 

7.38 

9.0" 

8.11 

10.0" 

8.71 

"Specify  color  when  ordering.  Red  (R),  Blue  (U),  Black  (B),  &  Yellow  (Y). 
Example:  If  you  wish  to  order  (2)  pkg.  500.  4",  Red: 
~2  PGP0400R 


PGPWKI*  $9.95 
CONTAINS 

250     3"  100  4'/2" 

250     3%"  100  5" 

100     4"  100  6" 

PGPWK3*  $32.95 

CONTAINS 

500     2%"  500  4'/!" 

500    3"  500  5" 

500    3%"  500  5</2" 

500    4"  500  6" 


PGPWK2*  $24.95 

CONTAINS 

250    2V4"  250    5" 

500     3"  100    5V!" 

500    3'/2"  250 


500    4" 
250     4'A" 


100    6'/2" 
100    7" 


PGPWK4"  $59.95 

CONTAINS 

1000     2'/2"  1000    4%" 

1000     3"  1000     5" 

1000     3'/2"  1000     5" 

1000     4"  1000    6" 


Wire  kit  assortments  are  available  in  the  4  celors  mentioned  along  with  a  rainbow 
assortment.  Use  color  code  (A)  for  the  rainbow  assortment 
Example:  If  you  wish  to  order  one  wire  kit  3  in  blue. 


PGPWK3U 


32.95    32.95 


SPOOLED  30  GAUGE  KYNAR 


PART  NO. 


SPOOL 
LENGTH  1-4 


5-9 


PGS050*  50  ft. 

PGS100*  100ft. 

PGS250*  250  ft. 

PGS500*  500  ft. 

PGS1000*  1000  ft. 


1.99 
3.65 
5.75 
10.20 
17.95 


1.85 
3.50 
5.50 
9.95 
15.95 


Example:  If  ybu  wish  to  order  400  ft.  of  yellow: 


PGS100Y 


3.65     14.60 


•Specify  celor  when  ordering,  Red  (R),  Blue  (U),  Black  (B),  Yellow  (Y),  &  for  wire  kits  only 
rainbow  assortment  (A),  j 


ORDER  TOLL  FREE  (800)  423-5633 


BYTE  November  1980 


80  —  25 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


Texas  Instruments 


Gold  Plated  Edgeboard  Connectors 


Standard  But  Not  Ordinary 

The  H4  Series  standard  edgeboard  con- 
nectors otter  the  best  value  in  the  edgeboard 
market  today. 

To  assure  reliable  electrical  connections,  our 
cantilever  contacts  are  pre-loaded  for  optimum 
normal  force  and  bifurcated  for  redundancy; 
each  contact  point  features  from  50  (Wire 
Wrap')  to  75  (solder  tail)  microinches  (mini- 
mum) of  wrought  gold  inlay  over  a  nickel  dif- 
fusion barrier.  The  inlay  is  metallurgically 
bonded  to  a  copper-nickel-tin  alloy  <CA  725) 


that  is  suited  to  both  soldered  and  wire  wrapped 
terminations  The  dielectric  contact-housing  is 
made  df  glass-filled  thermoplastic  polyester, 
meeting  UL  Flammability  Classification  94V-0 

FEATURES 

RELIABLE,  COST-EFFICIENT  CONTACT  DESIGN 

•  50 (Wire  Wrap)  to 75 (solder  tail)  microinches 
gold  inlay  over  a  nickel  diffusion  barrier 
(minimum  thickness). 

•  Copper-nickeMin  CA  725  Alloy. 

•  Bifurcated  contact  points 

•  Preloaded,  cantilever  spring  design. 

•  Contacts  are  user  removable. 


RUGGED  BODY 

•  Glass-filled  thermoplastic  pclyester  — 
Meets  U.L  Flammability  Classification 94V-0. 
—  Resists  common  cleaning  solvents, 

•  Solder  standoff  —  Facilitates  cleaning  — 
Reduces  solder  wicking 

•  Between  contact  polarization  key  (snaplock 
for  .100"  &  .125"  centers). 

•  Generous  chamfered  card  slot. 

•  Molded  ccntact  identification  —  Alpha- 
numeric (.156"  centers)  —  Numeric  (100"  & 
125"  centers). 

•  Location  ridges  (bottom)  and  raised  dots 
(top)  mark  every  fifth  contact  position. 

•  Entire  connector  design  is  U.L.  Approved 


Tl  EDGE  CONNECTORS 
I"  Contact  Centers:  ST     Soldertail  GOLD:  WW    -  Wire  Wrap  GOLD 
PRICE 
PART  W0. 1-9  10-24  25-99  100-249 


TIC-1 530-1  ST 
TIC-1530-l  WW 
TIC-1 836-1  ST 
TIC-1 836-1  WW 
TIC-2244-1  ST 
TIC-2244-1  WW 
TIC-2550-1  ST 
TIC-2550-l  WW 
TIC-3060-1  ST 
TIL)  300(1  1  WW 
TIC-3672-1  ST 
TIC-3672-1  WW 
TIC-4080-1  ST 
TIC-40B0  1  WW 
TIC-4386-1  ST 
TIC-4386-1  WW 
TIC-50100-l  ST 
TIC-50100-l  WW 


1.60 
1.70 
2.00 
2.10 
2.25 
2.40 
2.50 
2.70 
2.95 
3.20 
3.30 
3.90 
3.60 
4.40 
3.90 
4.65 
4.50 
5.40 


1.45 
1.55 
1.80 
1.90 
2.00 
2.15 
2.25 
2.45 
2.60 
2.85 
2.95 
3.50 
3.25 
4.00 
3.50 
4.15 
4.05 
4.90 


1.30 
1.35 
1.60 
1.65 
1.75 
1.90 
2.00 
2.15 
2.30 
2.55 
2.60 
3.10 
2.85 
3.60 
3.10 
3.70 
3.60 
4.30 


1.10 
1.15 
1.40 
1.45 
1.50 
1.60 
1.65 
1.80 
1.90 
2.20 
2.30 
2.60 
2.40 
3.00 
2.60 
3.10 
3.00 
3.60 


.125"  Contact  Centers:  STG  -  Soldertail  GOLD:  WWG  -  Wire  Wrap  GOLD 


PART  NO. 


19 


PRICE 


ABBREVIATIONS: 
ST    -  Solder  Tail  Gold 
WW    -Wire  Wrap  Gold 


TIC-2244-2  ST 
TIC-2244-2  WW 
TIC-2856-2  ST 
TIC-2856-2  WW 
TIC-3060-2  ST 
TIC-3060-2  WW 
TIC-3162-2ST 
TIC-3I62-2WW 
TIC-3672-2  ST 
TIC-3672-2  WW 
TIC-4080-2  ST 
TIC-4080-2  WW 
TIC-4488-2  ST 
TIC-4488-2  WW 
TI-S100  ST 
TI-S100  WW 


100  249 


2.30 
2.60 
2.80 
3.20 
2.90 
3.40 
3.05 
3.50 
3.45 
4.00 
3.80 
4.45 
4.20 
4.85 
3.20 
4.00 


2.10 
2.35 
2.55 
2.90 
2.60 
3.06 
2.75 
3.15 
3.10 
3.60 
3.45 
4.00 
3.B0 
4.35 
2.90 
3.75 


1.85 
2.10 
2.25 
2.55 
2.30 
2.70 
2.45 
2.80 
2.75 
3.20 
3.05 
3.55 
3.35 
3.90 
2.50 
3.50 


1.50 
1.75 
1.85 
2.15 
1.95 
2.25 
2.05 
2.35 
2.30 
2.68 
2.55 
2.95 
2.80 
3.20 
2.20 
3.25 


Sullins  Gold  Plated 
E_EvelwG-ldwiresw7aXTailGold  Edgeboard  Connectors 

Sullins  Eleclonics  was  the  first  manufacturer  to  pioneer  the  use  of  Valox,*  a  polyester,  as  an  insulator 
material.  The  quality  and  performance  of  this  material  has  been  a  prime  reason  tor  the  outstanding 
success  of  this  connector  line.  Sullins  connectors  are  unique  in  being  recognized  by  Underwiters 
Laboratories.  This  is  especially  important  to  customers  fabricating  UL  approved  devices. 


CAT.  PART  NO. 


.156"  CONTACT  CENTER  CONNECTORS 

APPLICATION  1-9  10-24 


SUL-6I2S5 

PET,  MA1003 

1.95 

1. 80 

1. 55 

SUL-6I2E5 

PET.  MA1003 

2.30 

2.00 

1.75 

SUL-1020E5 

2.00 

1. 77 

1.53 

SUL-1224E5 

COMMODORE  PET 

3.60 

3.20 

2.B0 

SUL-I224S5 

COMMODORE  PET 

3.30 

2.90 

2.50 

SUL-1530E5 

VECTOR  PLUGBOARDS.  GRI  KEYBOARDS 

3.30 

2.90 

2.50 

SUI-1530S5 

VECTOR  PLUGBOARDS.  GRI  KEYBOARDS 

3.50 

3.05 

2.65 

SUL-I530W5 

VECTOR  PLUGBOARDS.  GRI  KEYBOARDS 

2.40 

2.10 

1.85 

SUL-1836E5 

3.70 

3.25 

2.80 

SUL-I836S5 

3.40 

3.00 

2.60 

SUL-2244E5 

VCT3662.  VCT-3682.  AIM-65 

3.90 

3.45 

3.00 

SUL-2244S5 

SYM,  VCT-3677.  KIM 

4.10 

3.60 

3.15 

SUL2244W5 

VECTOR  PLUGBOARDS.  SYM.  KIM.  AIM-65 

4.20 

3.70 

3.20 

SUL-2550E5 

5.30 

4.65 

4.05 

SUL-3672E5 

8.30 

7.30 

6.35 

SUL-3672S5 

7.25 

6.40 

5.55 

SUL-3672W5 

7.40 

6.55 

5.65 

SUL-4386E5 

M0 1 6800,  INTEL  MULTIBUSS 

8.25 

7.30 

6.30 

SUL-4386S5 

NSC  PACER.  VCT-460811) 

8.25 

7.30 

6.30 

SUL4386W5 

VCT-4611[1]|2|.  INTEL  MULTIDUSS 

B.80 

7.75 

6.75 

.125"  CONTACT  CENTER  CONNECTORS 

CAT.  PART  NO. 

APPLICATION 

I -9 

1 0-24 

25-99 

Materials  &  Characteristics 

Insulator:  Glass  filled  thermoplastic  polyester,  color:  Blue, 

Insulation  Resistance:  5000  megoms. 

Solvent  Resistance:  Perchloroethylene,  Freon  113.  Freon  11,  Trichloroethylene. 

Contacts:  Phosphor  Bronze 

Operating  Voltage:  .100  (2.54)  ,125(3.17)  ,150(3.81)  .156  (3  96)  contact  centers 

(At  sea  level)         600  VDC  800  VDC   1500  VDC   1800  VDC 
Current  Rating:  5  amperes 
Voltage  Drop:  30  MV  at  rated  current. 
Contact  Resistance:  10  milliohms  maximum. 
Operating  Temperature:  -65"C  to  +125°G 
Board  Thickness  Accommodated:  .062  inch  (1.57mm) 
Board  Insertion:  2  to  16  ozs  per  contact  pair  using  .062  (1.57mm)  steel  test  blade. 


CAT.  PART  NO. 


.1"  CONTACT  CENTER  CONNECTORS 

APPLICATION  1-9 


SUL-2856W2  PROLOG  STD  BUSS.  VCT-4610|1](2| 

SUL-2856S2  PROLOG  STD  BUSS.  VCT-4610[1 1|2| 

SUL-3672W2 

SUL-4080W2  VCT-4380  PLUGBOARD 

SUL-S100ALT  .140"  SPACED  ROWS  FOR  ALTAIR 

SUL-S100SEG  S-100  SOLDER  EYELET 

SUL-S100STG  .250"  SPACED  ROWS.  IMSAI.  VCT-8803.  CR0MEMC0 

SUL-S10DWWG  S-100  WIRE  WRAP 

SULCfil  IMSAI  STYLE  CARD  GUIDE 

SULCG1/C  IMSAI  STYLE  CARD  GUIDE 


6.60 
5.50 
6.30 
7.00 
7.80 
7.95 
5.95 
6.50 


5.80 
4.85 
5.55 
6.20 
6.90 
7.60 
5.40 
5.75 
1.00  Pkg  ol5 
15.00  Pkg  ol  100 


5.05 

4.20 
4.80 
5.35 
6.00 
6.60 
4.70 
4.95 


SUL-1020EI 

SUL-1020W1 

SUL 1326b  1 

SUL-1530EI 

SUL-I530S1 

SUL-1530W1 

SUL-2040EI 

SUL-2040S1 

SUL-2040W1 

SUL2244EI 

SUL-2244SI 

SUL-2244WI 

SUL-2550E1 

SUL-2550S1 

SUL-2550WI 

SUL-3060E1 

SUL-3060S1 

SUL3060W1 

SUL-3672E1 

SUL-3672S1 

SUL-3672W1 

SUL-4080EI 

SUL-4080SI 

SUL-4080WI 

SUL-4386E1 

SUL-4386SI 

SUL4386WI 

SUL-50I00E1 

SUL-50I00S1 

SUL-50I00WI 


VCT-4608.  SOSSBC-100.  IMSAI  MI0.  S10 


TRS-80.  VCT-4609  PLUGBOARD 

TRS-BO.  VCT-4609  PLUGBOARD 

TRS-80.  VCT-4609  PLUGBOARD 

VECTOR  PLUGBOARDS 

VECTOR  PLUGBOARDS 

VECTOR  PLUGBOARDS 

SOS  VERSAFL0PPY.  INTEL  MULTIBUSS 

SDS  VERSAFLOPPY.  APPLE  II 

VECTOR  4609.  IMSAI  PI0 

INTEL  MULTIBUSS.  VCT-4608 11| 

INTEL  MULTIBUSS,  VCT-4608 11| 

INTEL  MULTIBUSS.  VCT-4608  |l| 

VCT-3719|1||4|.VCT-4493|11 

VCT-4494IH.  VCT-37I9|1||4| 

VCT-4493|1].VCT-4494|I| 

COMMODORE  PET 

COMMODORE  PET 

C0MM0DDRE  PET 

COSMAC  ELF 

C0SMAC  ELF 

COSMAC  ELF 

ELF  PRODUCTS 

ELF  PRODUCTS 

ELF  PRODUCTS 


2.90 

2.55 

2.20 

2.80 

2.45 

2.15 

3.00 

2.65 

2.30 

3.75 

3.30 

2.90 

3.60 

3.20 

2.80 

3.75 

3.3D 

2.90 

4.20 

3.70 

3.20 

3.90 

3.45 

3.00 

4.10 

3.60 

3.15 

5.55 

4.90 

4.25 

4.50 

3.95 

3.45 

5.55 

4.90 

4.25 

6.10 

5.40 

4.70 

5.95 

5.20 

4.55 

6.D0 

5.30 

4.60 

6.60 

5.85 

5.10 

6.35 

5.60 

4.90 

6.20 

5.50 

4.75 

8.00 

7.10 

6.10 

7.40 

6.55 

5.65 

7.95 

7.00 

6.10 

7.40 

6.55 

5.70 

7.40 

6.55 

5.70 

8.35 

7.40 

6.40 

7.80 

6.90 

6.00 

9.30 

8.25 

7.15 

9.60 

8.50 

7.35 

9.40 

8.30 

7.20 

9.45 

8.35 

7.25 

8.50 

7.50 

6.50 

GOLD  S-100  CONNECTORS 


PRIORITY  ^distributes  the  Tl  S-100  Card  Edge 
Connectors  at  tremendous  volume  for  prices 
others  only  wish  they  could  duplicate. 


Part  No. 


SOLDER  TAIL  PRICE 
1-9     10-24  25-99 


100-249   Part  No. 


WIRE  WRAP  PRICE 
1-9     10-24  25-99 


100-249 


TI-S100  STG      3.20   2.90   2.50         2.20  TI-S100WWG    4.00   3.75  3.50         3.25 

Connector  pricing  based  on  gold  not  exceeding  $700.00  per  oz. 


80  —  26 


BYTE  November  1980 


PLEASE  ORDER  BY  PART  NUMBER 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


WIRE  UIRBPPIIIC  TOOLS 
ROD  WIRE 


'  HOBBV  '  WIRE  lURflPPIIIG 
TOOL  BBITERV  POWERED 

For  .025''  (0.63mm)  sq.  post 
MODIFIED''  wrap,  positive  indexing 
anti-overwrapping  device. 

0KM-BW2630  TOOL  $19.95 

0KM-BC1  BATTERIES 

AND  CHARGER  $11.00 
0KMBT-30  BITF0RAWG30  $3  95 
OKMBT-2628  BIT  FOR  AWG  26-28    $7.95 


ISF    C   S'ZE  Nl  etc  a 


HOBBV  UlRflF 
TOOLS 


0KM-WSU-30M 


MODIFIED  WRAP 


$7  95 


TRICOLOR  DISPEtlSER 


•  3  Rolls  ot  Wire  in  one  dispenser. 

•  3  Colors  Blue  White  Red  50  ft  of  each  color 

•  AWG  30  (0,25mm)  KYNAR'  Insulated  Wire 

•  Built-in  Plunger  cuts  wire  to  desired  length 

•  Built-in  Stripper  strips  1"  of  insulation. 

•  Refillable  (for  refills  see  below) 


OKM-WD-30-TRI 

TRICOLOR  DISPENSER    $7.95 

TRICOLOR  DISPE0SER 
REPlPtEITIEnT  ROLLS 

•  AWG  30  (0,25mm)  KYNAR"  Insulated  Wire 

•  3  Colors  Blue  While,  Red,  50  ft  each  color 

•  Silver  plated  solid  conductor,  easy  stripping 

0KM-R-30-TRI     REPLACEMENT  ROLLS  $5,95 

DIP  It  inSERTIOR  TOOLS  UIITH  Pin  STRRIGHTI1ER 


S1HAIGHTEN  PINS       RELUSE  PICKUP  INSERT 


onno 


14-16  PIN  DIP/IC  INSERTER 


e  MOS  &  CMOS  IC's   Du'a 


OKM-MQS-1416  14-16  PIN. MPS  CMOS  SAFE  INSERTER  $7.95 

OKM-MOS-2428  24-28  PIN. MOS  CMOS  SAFE_INSERTER_         $7.95 

3G -40  Pill  cmbs-SRFE 
U  inSERTIOd  TOOL 

Unique  new  insertion  lool  Also  aligns  benl- 
oul  pms  A  twist  o!  the  handle  compresses 
ihe  pins  to  proper  600  inch  spacing  and 
locks  !he  IC  into  the  lool  Then  simply  place 
the  tool  on  the  socket  and  depress  the 
plunger  (or  instant  and  accurate  insertion 
Features  heavy  chrome  plating  throughout 
for  reliable  static  dissipation  Includes  termi- 

GHOUND  STRAP  NOT  INCLUDED 


36-40  PIN  CMOS  SAFE  INSERTION  TOOL         $7.95 


DIP    IC  EXTRACTOR  TOOL 


EXTRACTOR  TOOL      $1.49 


WK-7  IC 

INSERTION 


WIRE  DISPEH5ER 

•  With  50  ft.  Roll  of  AWG  30  KYNAR*  wire- 
wrapping  wire. 

•  Built-in  Plunger  cuts  wire  to  desired  length 

•  Built  m  Stripper  strips  1"  Of  insulation 

•  Refillahip  'For  refills,  see  below) 


0KM-WD-30-B 

BLUE  WIRE 

$4.95 

0KM-WD-30-Y 

YELLOW  WIRE 

$4.95 

0KM-WD-30-W 

WHITE  WIRE 

$4  95 

0KM-W0-30-R 


RED  WIRE 


$4  95 


DISPEI1SER  REPLflCEmEnT  ROILS 

Wire  for  wire-wrapping  AWG-30  (0,25mm) 
KYNAR"  wire  50  ft  roll,  silver  plated,  solid  con- 
ductor easy  stripping 
OKM-R-308-0050  30-AWG  BLUE  50  FT  ROLL 
0KM-R-30Y-0Q50  30-AWG  VELLOW50  FT  ROLL  $2. 
0KM-R-30Y-0Q5O  30-AWG  WHITE  50  FT  ROLL  $2 
0KM-R-30R-0050         30-AWG  RED  50  FT    ROLL        $2. 

"(UP  RI1D  STRIP"  TOOL 

A  unique  new  design  tor  stripping  1"  insulation 
from  30AWG  wire.  Insert  wire,  squeeze  lool 
closed  to  cut  off  excess  wire,  pull  wire  through 
stripping  slot  to  remove  insulation.  Handy  pocket 
size,  only  IJi"  x  1"  x  V.         Shipping  Weight  4  oz 


0KM-CAS-130 

l<i   NOT    APPHCABLf  ro 

TERminnis 


CLIP  AND  STRIP  $1 

MLCNE  OR  TEHON  INSULATION 


025"(0,63mm)  Square  Post 
3  Level  Wire-Wrapping 
Gold  Plated. 


?5  Pf  fl  PACKAG. 


SLOTTED  TERMINAL       $4.98 


0KM-WWT-3 
OJM-WWT-4 


SINGLE  SIDED  S2.98 

TERMINAL 

IC  SOCKET  TERMINAL     $4  98 


DOUBLE  SIDED  t 

TERMINAL 

TERimnni  insERTinc  tool 

For  inserl.ng  WWT- 1   WWT-2  WWT-3  and  WWT-4 
Terminals  info  ,040"(1.0mm)  Ota  Holes. 


0KM-INS-1         INSERTING  TOOL  $2.49 

P.l.B.TERITIinPL  STRI'PS 

The  TS  strips  provide  positive  scew  activated  clamping 
action,  accommodate  wire  sizes   14-30  AWG  (1  8  - 

0.25mm].  Pins  are  solder  plated  copper,  .042  inch  (1mm) 
■-     on   200  inch  {St      ' 


I0KM-TS-4 

4-POLE 

rSl 

IOKMTS-8 

8-POLE 

$3 

[0KM-TS-12 

12  POLE 

43 

mooumR  TERmiriRL  strips 

For  versatile,  economical  connections  especially  in 
bread-boarding  and  short  runs.  Two  circuit  modules 
are  dovetaiied  together  tn  various  combinations  to 
form  printed  circuit  board  terminals  with  the  desired 
number  o(  circuits  Waking  stable,  low-resistance 
connections  with  only  a  screwdriver,  the  space- 
saving  terminals  lake  conductors  from  26  through  16 
AWG  conforming  to  20  inch  (5.08mm)  hole  spac- 
ing on  boards  up  to   126  inch  (3,20mm)  thicK 


0KM-TS-6MD 


2-P0LE 


$1,79 


asaa, 


PL  ERRD  GUIDES 


TR-i  consists  ol  2  guides  precision  molded  with 
unique  spring  linger  aclion  that  dampens  shock 
and  vibration,  yet  permits  smooth  insertion  or  ex- 
traction. Guides  accommodale  any  card  thick- 
ness Irom  040-  100  inches. 

QUANTITY  —  OMf  PAIR  12  PCS.) 


0KM-TR-1 


CARD  GUIDES 


Shipping  Weight  4  oz 


PRB-I  DIGITAL  LOCK  PROBE 


Compatible  with  OTL,  TTL.  CMOS,  MOS  and  Mico- 
processors  using  a  4  to  !5V  power  supply  Thresholds 
automatically  programmed  Automatic  resetting  mem- 
ory No  adjustment  required.  Visual  indication  ot  logic 
levels,  using  LED's  to  snow  high,  low,  bad  level  or  open 
circuit  logic  and  pulses  Highly  sophisticated,  shirt 
pocket  portable  (protective  tip  cap  and  removable 
coil  cord). 

•   DC  to  >  50  MHZ  •  Automatic  thrcthold 


■   UO  K    .  imp? 
>   Automatic:  pu 

lo  SO  Mhc 
t  Automatic  r* 
.  Opm  ciTCult 


i   Com. 


I 


PL  ERRD  GUIDES  &  BRRLHETS 

TRS-2  kit  includes  2  TR-1  guides  plus  2  mount- 
ing brackets.  Support  brackets  feature  unique 
stabilizing  post  that  permits  secure  mounting 
with  only  1  screw 


0KM-TRS-2     GUIDES  &  BRACKETS 


0KM-PRB-1     DIGITAL  LOGIC  PROBE 

vacuum  vise 


Unique  vacuum  based  light  duty  vise  for  precision 
handling  of  small  components  and  assemblies.  Rug- 
ged ABS  construction  1H"  (38mm)  wide  jaws,  IV 
(32mm)  travel  for  maximum  versatility.  Also  features 
screw  lugs  for  permanent  installation, 
(mounting  screws  included) 


BW928  INDUSTRIAL  WRAPPING  TOOL 


GREAT  FOR 
PRODUCTION! 


OKM-WK-7  COMPLETE  IC  INSERTER/EXTRACTOR  KIT 

INDIVIDUAL  COMPONENTS 

0KM-M0S-1416  14-16  PIN  MOS  CMOS  SAFE  INSERTER 

0KMM0S-2428  24-28  PIN  MOS  CMOS  SAFE  INSERTER 

OKM-MOS-40  36-40  PIN  MOS  CMOS  SAFE  INSERTER 
0KM-EX-1  14-16  PIN  EXTRACTOR  TOOL 

KM-EX-2  24-40  PIN  CMOS  SAFE  EXTRACTOR  TOOL 


^0K 


$7  95 

il Is  0KM-BW928BF 

J,  49  0KM-BT30I 

$7  95  0KM-BC1 


•  Accepts  Industrial  Bits  &  Sleeves 
(Gardner  Denver  or  equivalent) 

•  Auto-Indexing 
•  Modified  Wrap 

$29  95   •  Back-Force  available  (Recommended  lor  #30) 
Part  No.  Description 

0KM-BW928  Tool 

Tool  (with  Backforce) 
#30  Bit  &  Sleeve 
Batteries  &  Charger 


Contains  Hobby  Wrap  Tool  WSU-30M.  Wire 
Dispenser  WD-30-B.  (2)  14  DIP'S,  (2)  16  DIP'S 
Hobby  Board  H-PCB-1  DIP  IC  Insertion  Tool 
INS-1416,  DIP  IC  Extractor  Tool  EX-1  and  PC 
Edoe  Connerlor  CON-1 

0KM-WK-4B(BLUE)    WIRE-WRAPPING  KIT    $25.99 


CA,  AK,  HI,  CALL  (213)  8948171 


BYTE  November  1980 


80  —  27 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 

Ism  S-100  PRODUCTS 


COMPATIBLE  PLUGBOARDS  FOR  INTERFACE, 
MEMORY  EXPANSION,  EXPERIMENTATION 


VCT-  8800V 

Universal  Microcomputer/processor 

plugboard,  use  with  S-100  bus.  Complete 

with  heat  sink  &  Hardware.  5.3"  x  10"  x  1/16.' 

1-4  5-9  10-24 

$22.48      $20.37      S18.26 


VCT-  8801 

Individual  tinned  square  pads  surround  most 

holes.  Ideal  for  mounting  components  by 

"tack"  soldering.  Top  of  board  pod  free  for 

mounting  I/O  connectors. 

1-4  5-9  10-24 

$23.12 $20.95  $18.78 


ranTranraronmrnni.iHi.Jrr 

VCT-  8801-1 

Plain  no  etched  circuitry  except  contacts. 

Produces  maximum  flexibility. 

1-4  5-9  10-24 

$15.67  $14.24|||||h.,  $12.82 


VCT- 8802-1 

Pad  per  2  holes.  Two-noie  pads  allow  tack 

soldering  of  socket,  plus  second  hole  for 

component  leads. 

1-4  5-9  10-24 

$27.21  $24.63  $22.05 


"ANY  DIP"  has  full  power  and  ground  planes 

back  to  back.  Boards  accommodates 

.3,  .4,  .6,  .9"  Dips. 

1-4  5-9  10-24 

$24.67      $22.34      $20.02 


L. 


'if:."- ■■■•':■  • 
VCT-8800R2 


\  vm'-:<m. 


•  Make  your  own  custom  S-100-Bus  circuit 
board. 

•  Just  expose,  develop  and  etch  in  lab  or 
home. 

•  No  camera  or  dark  room  needed. 

•  Coated   both  sides  with   copper  and   + 
Positive  Photoresist. 

•  S-100-Bus  card  size:  5.3"  x  10"  x  .062" 

•  Gold   plated  50/100  contacts   on   .125" 
centers,  continuous  into 

copper  fields  both  sides. 

•  Complete  step-by-step  instructions. 

•  Expose  with  bright  sun  or  G.E.  RS  275  watt 
suntan  lamp. 

•  Two  layout  papers:  1  clear,  1  with  0.1"  grid. 

VCT-8800R2 

1-9  10-49  50-99 

$22.42  $20.32  $18.22 

VCT-0088-21-45  developer  for  +  Positive 

Photoresist,  6  oz.  concentrate  makes  30  fluid 

ounces,  develops  2400  square 

inches.     $2.46 


VCT-8803  Motherboard  for 
S-100  Bus  Microcomputer 

Mounts  11  receptacles  with  100  contacts  or  10  receptacles 
plus  interconnections  to  smaller  boards  for  expansion. 
Connectors  mount  with  tabs  protruding  through  .038  inch  (1 
mm)  diameter  holes  in  rows  spaced  .250  inch  (6.4  mm)  on 
each  connector  position  and  0.75  inch  (19  mm)  between 
connector  positions.  Includes  etched  circuit  and  instruc- 
tions for  active  or  passive  terminations  plus  12  tantalum 
capacitors  for  +5,  +12,  -12  volt  buses,  and  spacers  for  mount- 
ing in  Vector  VP1  orVP2case.  G-10epoxy  glass  board  with  2 
ounce  copper,  solder  plated  circuitry  plus  solder  mask  to 
avoid  accidental  short  circuits.  Large  buses:  +5V  and  GND 
(10  amps),  +12V  or  16V  (7  amps).  Current  ratings  are  per 
MIL-STD-275with10°  rise. 

Shipping  weight  2  pounds  (.9kg) $29.50 


VCT-3690-12  Card  Extender 

Card  Extender  has  100  contacts  —  50  per 

side  on  .125  centers.  Attached  connector  is 

compatible  with  S-100  Bus  Systems. 

1-4  5-24 

$26.64  $24.18 

VCT-3690  6.5"  22/44  pin  .156  ctrs.  Extender $15.66 

VCT-3690-4  7.5"  36/72  pin  .1  ctrs.  Extender $22.76 

VCT-3690-6  1 1 "  22/44  pin  .156  ctrs.  Extender   $18.80 


21  pairs  of  nylon  guides 

furnished  for  snap-in  mounting 

on  .25"  multiples 


VCT-CCK100 


Shipping 

m. 

10  lbs. 
RACH  MOUNTABLE  CAGE 

Especially  designed  to  accommodate  S100 
size  Plugboards,  Motorola  Exorcisor,™  and 
Micromodule™  Plugboards.  Cage  has  .081" 
thick  anodized  aluminum  side  walls.  Will 
accommodate  Plugboards  4.0"  to  8.5"  long 
and  10.0"  to  1 1 .5"  wide  by  1/16"  thick.  Cages 
assemble  quickly. 


■'"Registered  Motorola  trademark 


VECTOR-PAK 

ASSEMBLED 

MICROCOMPUTER 

CASES 


VCT-VPZ- $159.00 


VCT-VP1  -S163.0C 

Same  as  VP2  except  cards  oriented 
side  to  side. 

Adjustauic  paun.ay.ng  system  for  S-100  bus 
microcomputers,  compatible  with  Altai r  8800 
and  IMSAI  8080  size  cards. 

•  Smart  looking,  deluxe  cases  unmarred  by 
unsightly  screws  or  fasteners. 

•  Finished  in  dark  blue  textured  vinyl. 

•  Instantly  accessible  interiors  with  slip  out 
covers. 

•  Removable  recessed  rear  and  front  panels. 

•  Fully  adjustable  interior  mounting  systems 
for  any  card  or  card  spacing  within  size 
limitations.  No  cutting  or  drilling 
necessary. 

•  Perforated  bottom  cover  for  cooler 
operation. 

DESCRIPTION 
Assembled  case  with  perforated  bottom 
cover.  Installed  mounting  struts  for  card 
guides  and  receptacles  or  motherboard. 
Cards  top  loaded,  spanning  front  to  back. 
Card   guide   (12   pair)    and   chassis   plate 

Supplied  Uninstalled.        Shipping  Weight  25  lbs. 


VCT-BPI7/9 

INPUT/OUTPUT  CONNECTOR  REAR  PANEL 

•  Ten  connector  cutouts  for  ITT  Cannon  DB25S 
Type  25  pin  connector  (connectors  furnished  by 
user). 

•  Panel  may  be  installed  with  cutouts  on  either 
right  or  left  side. 

•  Interchangeable  with  standard  rear  panel. 

•  Connectors  may  be  slipped  through  the  panel  for 
ease  of  assembly  or  disassembly. 


80  —  28 


BYTE  November  1980 


PLEASE  ORDER  BY  PART  NUMBER 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


VCT-3662  6  5"  x  4.5"  $   8.69 

VCT-3662-2  9.6"  x  4.5"  $10.85 

P  pattern  plugboards  for  IC's  Epoxy  Glasss  1/16"  44  pin. 
con.  spaced  .156 

VCT-3719-1  $9.28 

Same  as  3662  except  36/72  con.  on  .1  centers 
VCT-3719-4  $11.73 

Same  as  3662-2  except  36/72  con.  on  .1  centers 


VCT-3682  9.6"  x  4.5"  $13.63 

VCT-3682-2  6.5"  x  4.5"  $11.04 

Hi-Density  Dual  In-Line  Plugboard  for  Wire  Wrap  with 
Power  and  Grd.  Bus  Epoxy  Glass  1/16"  44  pin  con.  spaced 
.156 


VCT-3677  9  6"  x  4.5"  $13.33 

VCT-3677-2  6.5"  x  4.5"  $10.68 

Gen.  Purpose  DIP  Boards  with  Bus  Pattern  tor  Solder  or 
Wire  Wrap  Epoxy  Glass  1/16"  44  pin  con.  spaced  .156 


VCT-4493-1 

4.5"  x  9.6"  Universal  pattern  for  any  .3"  .4,"  .6','  .9',' 
spaced  DIPS  Holds  63  Dips.  Accommodates  additional  I/ 
O  connectors  36/72  con.  on  .1  centers. 

1-4  5-9  10-24 

$23.83  $21.55  $19.27 

VCT-4494-1 

Same  as  4493  except  22/44  con.  on  .156  centers. 
1-4  5-9  10-24 

$20.68  $18.67  $16.67 

VCT-4493 

4.5"  x  6.5"  Universal  pattern  for  any  .3"  .4"  .6"  .9," 
spaced  DIPS.  Accommodates  additional  I/O  connectors 
36/72  con.  on  .1  centers. 

1-4  5-9  10-24 

$19.37  $17.59  $15.80 

VCT-4494 

Same  as  4493  except  22/44  con.  on  .156  centers. 
1-4  5-9  10-24 

$16.33  $14.79  $13.25 


VCT-HA9 

Pkg.of4  $1.26 

Ejector 

Card  with  Roll  Pin 

VCT-HA9C 
Pkg.of100  $26. 


WIRE  WRAP 

POSTS  (see  next  page) 

catalog    is    available    to    qualified 
industrial  and  institutional  customers. 


.042  dia.  holes  on 
0.1  spacing  for  IC's 


Phenolic 

PART  NO. 
VCT-64P44-X 
VCT-169P44-X 


Epoxy  Glass 


SIZE 

4.5"  x  6.5" 
4.7"  x  17" 


VCT-64P44 
VCT-84P44 
VCT-169P44 
VCT-169P84 


PRICE 

1-9        10-19 

$1.56      $1.40 

$3.69     $3.32 


$1.79  $1.61 

$2.21  $1.99 

$4.52  $4.07 

$8.83  $7.95 


APPLE  PLUGBOARD 

Vector  4609  Peripheral  Interface  Plugboard  for  construc- 
tion of  custom  circuits.  Plug  compatible  with  Apple  II, 
Commodore  PET  and  Super  Kim  microcomputers. 

VCT-4609 

1-4  5-9  10-24 

$20.74  $18.79  $16.84 


VCT-4607 

DEC,  LSI-11,  PDP6,  PDP11,  Heath  H-11,  P  Pattern  Epoxy 
Glass,  Plug  Board  8.43"  x  5.187"  Dual  36  pin  DEC/ 
HEATH  Connectors. 

1-4  5-9  10-24 

$16.26  $14.74  $13.21 

MOTOROLA  EXORCISER 
PROTOTYPING  BOARDS 


VCT-4611 

3  hole  pads  interspersed  with  power  busses  (shown 
above). 

1-4  5-9  10-24 

$29.95  $26.96  $23.96 

VCT-4611-1 

Bare  board  except  with  edge  connector.  No  power  bussing. 

1-4  5-9  10-24 

$19.95  $17.96  $15.96 


VCT-4611-2 

Has  only  interspersed  power  busses. 

1-4  5-9 

$29.95  $26.96 


10-24 
$23.96 


UNIVERSAL  MICROCOMPUTER 
PLUGBOARDS 

For  STD  Bus,  Pro-Log  Microprocessors  and  General  Use. 
Size:  4.5"  x  6.5"  x  .052"  28/56  contacts  on  .125"  centers. 


VCT-4610  for  soldering  or  wire  wrapping.  Mounts  20  16  pin 
DIP  ICs. 

1-4  5-9  10-24 

$18.95  $17.06  $15.16 


VCT-4610-1  for  soldering  or  wire  wrapping.  Mounts  59  16 
pin  DIP  ICs. 

1-4  5-9  10-24 

$15.95  $14.36  $12.76 


VCT-4610-2  wire  wrapping  board.  Mounts  35  16  pin  DIP 
ICs. 

1-4  5-9  10-24 

$18.95  $17.06  $15.16 


VCT-4608 

Form  and  size  compatible  with  INTEL  SBL80  Series  and 
NATIONAL  BLC  80  Series  microcomputer  boards.  Power 
and  Ground  buses  on  both  sides. 

1-4  5-9  10-24 

$59.23  $53.67  $48.11 

VCT-4608-1 

Same  as  4608  except  plain,  less  power  buses. 


VCT-4350 

Large  Microprocessor  development  plugboard  with  Zig- 
zag Buses  7"  x  9.6"  Holds  77  DIPs,  80  pin  con.  spaced 
.125. 

1-4  5-9  10-24 

$22.80  $20.69  $18.58 


VISIT  OUR  RETAIL  STORE 


BYTE  November  1980 


80  —  29 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


031 


T.M 


Slit-N-Wrap  is  easy  to  use  and  is  up  to  four  times  fasterthan  ordinary 
manual  wrapping  because  there  is  no  wire  measuring  or  pre- 
stripping  required.  Slit-N-Wrap  tools  have  a  patented  action  which 
slits  wire  insulation  while  the  tools  is  wrapping  wire  on  .025"  square 
posts.  Connections  are  just  as  reliable  as  with  conventional 
wrapping  tools.  Tests  show  Slit-N-Wrapped  connections  exceed  Mil 
Spec  requirements  for  pull-off,  are  low  resistance,  and  are  gas  tight. 
All  tools  and  bits  are  guaranteed  to  provide  at  least  10,000  reliable 
wraps  before  bit  replacement  is  required 

Slit-N-Wrap  tools  with  Tefzel  insulated  wire 


PI  84 1 


micro  clip      {MglaRh     iJe&M 

For  .042"  dia.  holes,  (all  boards  on  this  page) 


VCT-T42-1/C 
VCT-T42-1/M 
VCT-P149     Hand  installing  tool 


Pkg.  of  100         S   1.54 

Pkg.  OM000       $11.28 

$  3.23 


WRAP  POST 


For  042"  dia.  holes,  (all  boards  on  this  page)  Bifurcated  contacts  for 
soldering  components  above  board  and  .025"  sq.  wrap  post  below  board. 

T44  will  accept  a  .021"  max.  dia.  lead  in  bifurcated  end.  3  level  wrap  post. 
VCT-T44/C  Pkg.  of  100  $  2.34 

VCT-T44/M  Pkg.  of  1000         $14.35 

A13    Hand  Installing  tool *  4.19 

T68  will  accept  a  .032"  max  dia.  lead  in  bifurcated  end.  3  level  wrap  post. 

VCT-T68/C                                                      Pkg.  of  100  $  2.67 

VCT-T68/M                                                      Pkg  of  1000  $16.40 

VCT-A13-1     Hand  Installing  tool $  4.15 

T68A  will  accept  a  .032"  max.  dia.  lead  in  bifurcated  end,  2  level  wrap  post 

VCT-T68A/C                                               Pkg.  of  100  $  2.57 

VCT-T68A/M                                               Pkg.  of  1000  $14  50 

VCT-A13-1     Hand  Installing  tool  $4  15 


Manual  wrapping  kit  with  knurled  aluminum  shaft,  replaceable 

hardened  steel  bit,  and  2  rolls  of  Tefzel  wire. 

VCT-P1 84     1  lb $30.00 


P184-4T1 


:eed-thru  wrap  post  tits  plated-thru  or  plain  holes.  Sharp  Corners  on 
:hese  .025"  sq.  wrap  post  bite  into  wrapped  wires  tor  perfect  connections. 

VCT-T46-2-9/C  Pkg.  100  $   2.72 

VCT-T46-2-9/M  Pkg.  1000  $20.46 

VCT-T46-3-9/C  Pkg.  100  $  2.74 

VCT-T46-3-9/M  Pkg.  1000  $20.90 

VCT-T46-4-9/C  Pkg.  100  $  2.64 

VCT-T46-4-9/M  Pkg.  1000  $16.91 

VCT-T46-5-9/C  Pkg.  100  $  3.58 

VCT-T46-5-9/M  Pkg.  1000  $28.93 

VCT-T46-6-9/C  Pkg.  100  $  4.99 

VCT-T46-6-9/M  Pkg.  1000  $42.96 

VCT-P133B    Hand  installing  tool  $  3.03 


Motorized   Slit-N-Wrap   kit,   complete  with    rechargeable   NiCad 

batteries  and  charger. 

VCT-P184-4T    3  /6s $105.00 

AC  powered  Slit-N-Wrap  with  pistol  grip  and  trigger  for  industrial 

and  production  use. 

VCT-P184-4T1     3  lbs $105.00 

Hardened  steel  replacement  bit  for  P184  series. 

VCT-P1B4A     1  lb $16.95 

Tefzel  insulate  silver  plated  copper  28  gauge  wire  for  P184  series 
Slit-N-Wrap  tools  (2  rolls  per  package). 

VCT-W28-6A     Green,  0.5  lbs $5.39 

VCT-W28-6B     Red.  0.5  lbs $5.39 

VCT-W28-6E     While.  0.5  lbs $5.39 

VCT-W28-6F     Yellow,  0.5  lbs $5.39 

P180  Series  Tools  Using  Polyurethane  Nylon  Coated  Wire.  Poly- 
urethane  nylon  coated  copper  wire  is  used  in  all  P180  series  tools. 
The  small  diameter  of  this  insulated  28  gage  wire  permits  two  7-turn 
wraps  on  a  0.025  inch  (.64  mm)  square  post  occupying  only  .21  inch 
(5.3  mm)  of  post  length.  Soldering  is  not  required  on  rectangular 
posts,  but  if  wrapped  on  round  or  irregular  posts  it  may  be  soldered 
using  a  750QF  (399°C)  iron  which  melts  the  insulation  as  solder  flow 
occurs. 
Manual  wrapping  kit  with  2  rolls  of  Polyurethane  wire. 

VCT-P180     1  lb $25.00 

Motorized  Slit-N-Wrap  kit,  complete  with   rechargeable  NiCad 
batteries  and  charger, 

VCT-P160-4T     3  lbs $99.50 

AC  powered  Slit-N-Wrap  with  pistol  grip  and  trigger  for  industrial 
and  production  use. 

VCT-P160-4T1     3  lbs $99.50 

Hardened  steel  replacement  bit  for  P180  and  P160  series. 

VCT-P180A     1/6 $14.25 

Polyurethane  nylon  insulated  copper  28  guage  wire  for  P180  and 
P160  series  Slit-N-Wrap  tools  (3  rolls  per  package). 

VCT-W28-2A     Green.  0.5  lbs $2.89 

VCT-W28-2B     Red,  0.5  /6s $2.89 

VCT-W28-2C     Clear,  0.5  /6s $2.89 

VCT-W28-2D      Blue,  0.5  lbs $2.89 


P160-1A        UNWRAP  TOOL 


T107  Bus  Strip 

T107  Bus  Strip 

Jsed  for  supply  busses  on  Vector  board  Holes  are  1"  Centers  13"  long. 


Unwrapping  bit  is  recessed  far  enough  into  the  sleeve  (spring  loaded)  to 
permit  unwrapping  more  than  the  maximum  amount  of  turns  on  a  3  wrap 
post  for  26-30  gage  wire. 
VCT-P160-18  $12.50 


T46  SERIES  WRAP  POST 


^V 


VECTOR-PAK  CARD  CAGES 

19"  rack  mounting  cages  are  supplied  completely  assembled,  ready 
for  connectors.  Models  listed  accommodate  1/16"  thick  cards  4.5" 
maximum  to  3"  minimum  width  x  6.5"  long.  Heavy  extruded  alumi- 
num cross  members  (T-Struts)  provide  strength  and  easy,  infinitely 
variable  connector  spacing.  21  pairs  of  4-40  connector  mounting 
nuts  are  furnished  installed. 

Vector  VCT-CCK-3  Card  Cage  —  Has  108  grooves  0.075"  wide  for 
1/16"  circuit  cards  in  extruded  aluminum  plates  mounted  top  and 
bottom.  Vertically  and  horizontally  adjustable  rear  cross  members 
have  21  pairs  of  4-40  nuts  in  captive  grooves  for  easy  connector 

mounting.  Net  Each $47.94 

Vector  VCT-CCK-13  Card  Cage  —  19"  wide  x  5'/*"  high  x  8.9"  deep. 
Has  21  pairs  of  riveted  anodized  aluminum  card  guides. 

Net  Each $50.00 

Vector  VCT-CCK13P  Card  Cage  —  Same  as  No  CCK1 3,  except  with 

riveted  ABS  plastic  guides.  Net  Each $50.00 

Vector  VCT-CCK-14P  Card  Cages  —  1 9"  wide  x  5V«"  high  x  1 2"  deep. 
Has  21  pairs  of  riveted  card  ABS  plastic  card  guides  on  0.75"  centers. 

Net  Each $57.63 

Vector  VCT-CCK13S  —  Same  as  CCK-13,  except  for  snap  in  card 
guides.  Comes  in  kit  form.  Net  Each $41.00 


T112-1  Bus  Link 


T112-2  Bus  Link 


VCT-T107 
VCT-T107/C 


Pkg.  10 
Pkg.  100 


T112-1  Bus  Link 

Fits  over  WW  pin  and  connects  pin  to  bus  2"  long. 


VCT-T112-1/C 
VCT-T112-1/M 


Pkg. 100 
Pkg.  1000 


T112-2  Bus  Link 

Same  as  T112-1  except  .3"  long. 


VCT-T112-2/C 
VCT-T112-2/M 


Pkg.  100 

_Pkg.  1000 


$  4.00 
$38.06 


$  1.93 
$  8.14 


$  2.15 
$10.95 


The  Vector  Pak  system  is  a  coordinated  packaging  system  which 
provides  modular  cases  and  cages  for  nearly  all  Vector  Plugbords 
and  many  industry-standard  plug-in  boards.  Adjustable  rear  struts 
mount  almost  any  PC  connector  without  hole  drilling  or  special 
brackets.  Other  sizes  and  cage  parts  are  available  separately  —  write 
for  catalog. 

Vector  VCT-CMA3A-20  Cage  ~-  5%"  h.  x  8.9"  deep  fits  19"  racks. 
Holds  eight  2"  wide  x  6V  long  x  4.6"  high  modules  (Vector  No. 

EFP204A66).  Net  Each $62.56 

Vector  VCT-CMA4A-20  Cage  —  5'A"  h.  x  12"  deep  fits  19"  racks. 
Holds  eight  2"  wide  x  9,6"  long  x  4,6"  high  modules  (Vector  No. 

EFP204A96).  Net  Each $63.99 

Vector  VCT-CMA3A-16  Cage  —  Same  as  No.  CMA3A-20,  except 
holds  ten  1.6"  wide  x  6.6"  long  x  4  6"  high  modules  (Vector  No. 
EFP164A66).  Net  Each $67.91 


SOCKET  PINS 

Gold  plated,  machined  socket  pin  for  .042"  dia.  holes.  (All  boards  on  this 
page.)  With  3  level  wrap  post. 


VCT-R32 

Pkg.  25 

$     5.75 

VCT-R32/C 

Pkg.  100 

$  21.63 

VCT-R32/M 

Pkg.  1000 

$202.95 

VCT-P158    Impact  Insertion  tool 

$  20.95 

VCT-D9    Die  point  for  P158 

$     4.05 

**       TRIFURCATED  KLIP  WRAP  POST 

For  .010"  to  .040"  diameter  leads  above  board  and  .025"  sq.  3  level  wrap 
post  below  board  for  .042"  dia.  holes.  (All  boards  on  this  page.) 


VCT-T49/C 

Pkg.  100 

$  3.76 

VCT-T49/M 

Pkg. 1000 

S22.7C 

VCT-P156    Hand  Installing  tool 

$  3.52 

>-*- 


10  lbs. 


2  lbs. 


EFP  MODULES 

All-aluminum  modules  are  anodized  finished  and  have  5V*"  high 
front  panels  with  thumb  screw,  solid  rear  panels  for  connector 
mounting  or  circuit  board  slotting,  rear  sliding  side  covers,  plus 
inner  multiple-grooved  top  and  bottom  rails  to  hold  1/16"  thick 
circuit  boards  without  special  bracketing. 
Vector  VCT-EFP164A66  Case  —  Has  6  circuit  board  grooves  spaced 
0.1 50"  apart  on  top  and  bottom  rails,  holds  circuit  boards  4.5"  wide  x 

6.5"  maximum  length  inside.  Net  Each $9.38 

Vector  VCT-EFP204A66  Case  —  Same  as  No.  EFP164A66,  except 

has  9  circuit  board  grooves  Net  Each  $9.65 

Vector  VCT-EFP204A97  Case  —  Same  as  No.  EFP164A66.  except 
holds  circuit  boards  4.5"  wide  x  9.6"  maximum  length  inside.  Net 
Each  $11.0; 


M  — 30 


BYTE  November  1980 


CALL  FOR  VECTOR  ITEMS  NOT  LISTED 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


li'Z  CiicClliT 

by       Bishop  Graphic^. 
BLACK 
PRECISION 
SLIT  PC 
ARTWORK 
TAPE 


18Yds./RoTr                       "^ 
PRICE  PER  PACKAGE  . . . 

$i.ir 

Tape  Size 

Cat  No.' 

in             mm 

.015 

0.38 

BEZ010151 

020 

0.51 

BEZ010201 

026 

0.66 

BEZ010261 

031 

0.79 

BEZ010311 

040 

1,02 

BEZ010401 

050 

1.27 

BEZ010501 

062 

1.57 

BEZ010621 

080 

2.03 

BEZ010801 

093 

2.36 

BEZ010931 

100 

2.54 

BEZ011001 

125 

3.18 

BEZ011251 

200 

5  08 

BEZ012001 

250 

6.35 

BEZ012501 

Donut     [A     £££' 
Pads       J  ^p     J1-25 

OD 

ID 

Cat. 

Qty./ 

In. 

080 

mm 

2.03 

In. 

.031 

mm 

0,79 

No.' 

BEZD216 

Pkg 
80 

100 

2.54 

031 

0.79 

BEZD101 

64 

120 

3.05 

.031 

0.79 

BEZD239 

64 

125 

3.18 

.031 

0.79 

BEZD102 

128 

150 

3,81 

.031 

0.79 

BEZD144 

112 

160 

4.06  j 

.040 

1.02 

BEZD247 

112 

187 

4.75 

.031 

0.79 

BEZD138 

120 

200 

5.08 

.031 

0.79 

BEZD139 

120 

250 

6.35 

.062 

1.57 

BEZD109J  120 

300 

7.62 

.062 

1.57 

BEZD111|  120 

Combination  Pack 


Tees 


90° 
Elbows 


Universal 
Corners 


Q 


PRICE  PER  PACKAGE  .  .  .   $1.95 


I    BEZK101 

7_  BEZK102    40   [ 
_      7  BEZK103    40  ] 
t  b4   BEZK104 
BEZK105 
!0     BEZK106I   40   I 


ARTWORK   TARGETS 

30  per  package $1.95 


PRESSURE  SENSITIVE 

DUAL  IN-LINE  (DIP) 

PATTERNS 

aoaBaao 


aoooooo 


i 


Cut  Pad 

•  Basic  large  terminal  area 

•  Most  commonly  used  pattern 

PRICE  PER  PACKAGE  .  .  .    $1.95 


No.  of 
Leads 

14 

Qty/ 
Pico.' 

32 
28 

Scale 

1X 
2X 

Catalog 
Number 

BEZ6014 
BEZ6038 

16 

32 
28 

1X 
2X 

BEZ6004 

BEZ6109 

18 

30 
26 

1X 
2X 

BEZ6900 
BEZ6901 

24 

12 
12 

1X 
2X 

BEZ6S3S 
BEZ6536 

28 

12 

12 

1X 
2X 

BEZ6903 
BEZ6904 

40 

8 
8 

1X 

2X 

BEZ6906 
BEZ6907 

OIBIBIOIQIBIB 
BIBIBIBIBIOIB 


A 


Cut  Pad  With  Conductors 

•  Use  where  conductor  traces 
must  be  routed  between  pads 
PRICE  PER  PACKAGE  .  .  .  $1.95 
No.  of         Qty/  Catalog 

Leads  Pkg.'         Scale      Number 


14 


32 
28 


1X 
2X 


BEZ6760 
BEZ6761 


32 

28 


1X 
2X 


BEZ6763 
BEZ6764 


40 


1X 
2X 


BEZ6984 
BEZ698S 


B  0  0  0  0  0  B 
jjjjpjpT 

Narrow  Cut  Pad 

►  Use  where  a  longer  terminal  area  is 
desired.  Can  be  used  with  conductors 
between  terminals. 

PRICE  PER  PACKAGE  .  .  .  $1.95 


No.  of 
Leads 

Qty/ 
Pkg.' 

Scale 

Catalog 

Number 

14 

32 
28 

1X 
2X 

BEZ6013 
BEZ6071 

16 

32 
28 

1X 
2X 

BEZ64S3 
BEZ6244 

40 


1X 
2X 


BEZ6987 
BEZ6988 


PRINTED  CIRCUIT 

"TO"  STYLE  PATTERNS 

Price  per  package  . . .  $1.95 


J> 


T0-18  ,   ,  ~ 

PATTERNS  Jwj" 

|JL         'CM,mml 

1X  SCALE.CAT.  NO.t  BEZS003.  36  PER  PACK 
2X  SCALE.CAT.  NO.  BEZ6048,  36  PEP  PACK 

HEAD 

T0-5 

PAnERNS  •°i»-<  ^Q  I  f5 

IX  SCALE.CAT.  NO.t  BEZ6029,  36  PER  PACK 


wx. 


HEAD 

TO-5 

PAnERNS 


O 

o°o 


p     • 


A 


X-ACTO  KNIFE  &  BLADES^ 


Cat.  No.  EZ3101(X-ActoNo.  1)  $1.50 

CM.  Not  BEZ3110 

(X-ActoNo.  16)  \ 

5  blade  pack $1.30 


Cat.  No.t  BEZ3108  ^__ _ 

(x-ActoNo.  11)  ~^-^^aa^*r;'  r — > 

5  blade  pack $1 .30  I 


m 


8X 
MAGNIFIER 


1 X  SCALE,  CAT.  NO.t  BEZ6021, 36  PER  PACK 
2X  SCALE.  CAT.  NO.    BEZ6197,  32  PER  PACK 


10LEAD 

T0-5  «    , 

PAnERNS   r^folft 

1X  SCALE.CAT.  NO.t  BEZ6022.  36  PER  PACK 
2X  SCALE.CAT.  NO.  BEZ6198,  32  PER  PACK 


12-LEAD 

T0-5 

PATTERNS 


t>        o 


IX  SCALE.CAT.  NO.t  BEZ6023.  36  PER  PACK 
2X  SCALE.CAT.  NO.  BEZ6203.  32  PER  PACK 

BASIC  PRINTED  CIRCUIT 
SEQUENTIAL  REFERENCE 
DESIGNATION  KIT 


Set  Sequence 

125"  :  .iyn  {3.17  mm) 

CI  t^C20 


CRKXR10 


U1t,,uU20 


Rl Thu  R40 


QihuQ20 


Catalog  Number 


No.  of  Seta 

Per  Kll 


BEZ80051     $1.95 


SEQUENTIAL  ALPHABET  KIT 


Letter  Characters 

125"  High  (3.17mm) 

A,E,l,O.R,T 


No.  01 

Each 

Letter 

Per  Set 


No.  ol 

Seta 

Per  Kit 


Cat. 
No 


C,L,nJ,S,U 


D,G,H,M,P,Y 


B.F.J,  K.Q.V.W.X.Z 


BEZ80451 
2      $1.95 


SEQUENTIAL  NUMBERS  KIT 

(120  Characters  Per  Kit) 


Set  Numbers 

.126"  High  (3.17  mm) 


01234 


56789 


Catalog  Number 


No.  of  Seta 
Per  Kit 


BEZ80551     $1.95 


•  Check  PC  Artwork  &  Boards 

CAT.  NO.  BEZ3520 $7.95 

DRAFTING  AIDS 
POLYESTER  ACCUFILM  CIF*» 

iClear   Inking    Film)     Ihe   ideal    film    lot    creadng 
precision  PC  artwork  masters 

•  Excellent  surlace  adtiesion 

•  Dimensional  stability 

•  Protective  anli  static  coating 

QUANTITY:  2  SHEETS  PER  PACKAGE 

8V2X11     11X17      17x22 
Sheet  Size       12T.6*        (27. 9x        [43.2 

27,9cm)       43.2  cm)       559cm) 

Catalog  No!  BEZ1101     bezhio     BEZ1116 


$    .85         $1.20        $1.95 


10x10  LINES/ 
IN.    (.100"  — 
2.54  mm) 
HEAVY 
ACCENT  ON 
10TH  LINE 


Polyester  VALU-G  RIDS 

Always  use  a  background  grid  during  primed  circuit 
artwork  and  layoul  preparation  to  insure  maximum 
accuracy  on  the  final  circuit  board  Using  a  grid 
system  facilitates  the  placement  of  components 
terminal  areas  (donut  pads)  and  conductor  traces 
on  the  layoul  Most  multiple  lead  components,  such 
as  dual  in-line  packages  (DIPS)  conform  to  standard 
grid  increments 

Sheet  Catalog  Price 

Size  Number        Per  Sheet 


8'/2"x11'         BEZ10223 
(21. 6x  27  9cm) 


$  .95 


11"x  17" 

17  9x43.2  err 


BEZ10224 


1.55 


17"x22"  BEZ10225  2  25 

(43  2  <  55  9  cm) 

ACCUPRINT  DRAFTING 
and  TRACING  VELLUM  PADS 

Use  these  handy  sheets  of  Bishop's  ACCUPRINT 
drafting    vellum    for    preliminary    printed    cm 
artwork  sketches  and  layouts      50-Sheet  Pad 

SAME  GRID  PATTERN  AS  ABOVE 

Sheet  Size  Plain         10x10  GRID 

(Ungridded)   Dropout  Blue 

16#   0027"  Thick    16#   0027"  Thick 
(0.07mm)  {0  07  mm) 


V2"  X  11" 

I?(.6i27.9cml 


BEZ20207 

$  6.45 


11"x17" 

(27  9x43. 2cm: 


BEZ20211 

$  9  95 


BEZ20208 
$11  40 


INSERTION-TYPE  CONNECTOR  PATTERNS 

Strip* 
per  Pack/ 
Contacts/    Catalog     Strips/ 
Scale         Strip         Number      Pack 


MULTI-PURPOSE  PRESPACED  PADS 


Center 


Center 
Spacing 


Center 


All  strips  4"  In  length 


Center 
Spacing 


Use  to  speed  tape-up  for  rows  ot  axial  lead  component 

pads  or  add  DIP  sizes 

Pad  Type 


.100" 

|2.54mm| 


.125" 

1 3.  175  mm 


.156" 

l3  962mrr 


ir    ir  ir 


1X 


44 


2 
BEZ6805 

$1.95 


it-    ir  1 1- 


2X 

1X 


22 

35 


"i  r 


-II* 


1500 

-1   r 


5 

BEZ6809 

$1.95 

2 

BEZ6704 
$1.95 


.100" 

12  5«  mrr 


->  rm 

0000000000000 


Scale 

1X 


Scale/ 
Pads 
Per 

Strip 

40 


Strips 
Per 

Pack 


Catalog 
Number 


J       l~. 


4 

BEZS716 

$1.95 

3 

BEZ6708 

$1.95 


5 

BEZ6720 
$1.95 


.156" 

(3  96  mm  1 


¥000000 000000 

0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 


2X 

1X 


£"„„ 


2X 
2X 


6 

BEZ5003 
S1.95 

7 

BEZSOM 
11  95 

6 

8EZS017 
1195 

7 
6 

BEZ50H 
SIM 

BEZ5020 
J195 

7 

7 

BEZSOS1 
S 185 

BEZ5015 
11.95 

PLEASE  BE  SURE  TO  ORDER  BY  PART  NUMBER  ONLY! 


BYTE  November  1980 


80  —  31 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


NEW!  Ii  S  -US  MICROPROCESSOR 

Your  Direct  Route  To  Efficient,  Creative  and 

Cut  The  High  Cost  Of  Creativity!  Combine  E-Z  CIRCUIT'S  COPPER 
ELECTRONIC  PACKAGING  &  PROTOTYPING  SYSTEM  With  E-Z 
CIRCUIT'S  New  E-Z  BUS™  CARDS  And  Plug  Unlimited  Flexibility  Into 
Your  Microprocessor  System  —  At  A  Remarkably  LOW  COST! 


E-Z  CIRCUIT'S  Unique  New  Pressure-Sensitive  COPPER 
Printed  Circuit  Design  System  Lets  You  Create  Your  Own 
Printed  Circuit  Boards  Quickly.  Easily  and  Professionally 
.  .     Without  Artwork,  Photography.  Or  Etching! 

E-Z  CIRCUIT'S  Unique  Copper  PC  Design  System  is  an 
aerospace-proven  concept  in  circuit  packaging  that  lets 
you  construct  prototypes  and  limited  quantity  production 
printed  circuit  boards  directly  from  engineering  sketches 


and  logic  flow  diagrams.  Using  this  system,  you  can 
make  production  quality  PC  boards  without  artwork, 
photography,  screening,  etching,  plating  or  any  other 
production  problems  and  time  delays. 

The  flexibility  and  simplicity  of  E-Z  CIRCUIT'S  Copper 
Printed  Circuit  Design  System  reduces  construction  time, 
facilitates  problem  solving,  speeds  design  changes  and 
insures  a  highly  reliable,  technically  precise  PC  board 
prototype  or  microprocessor  interface 


NEW!  E-Z  BUtf  CARDS 

Plain  Microprocessor  Plugboards  Designed  To  Permit  Maximum  Creativity  In  Program 
Experimentation,  Interface  Design,  And  Memory  Expansion 


Want  to  build  your  own  microprocessor  interface 
without  the  hassle  of  modifying  standard  hard- 
ware7 E-Z  CIRCUIT'S  plain,  pre-shaped.  pre- 
drilled  microprocessor  plugboards  free  your 
design  of  unnecessary  contacts,  etching,  and 
other  extras  that  cost  you  money,  yet  serve  no 
purpose  in  your  design!  Using  E-Z  CIRCUIT'S  new 
Bus  Cards  as  a  base,  you  build  the  precise  micro- 
processor design,  modem  control,  motor  control 
or  memory  expansion  you  require,  with  cost, 
composition,  quality  and  reliability  completely 
under  your  control. 

We  have  an  E-Z  BUS™  Card  specially  designed  to 
plug  into  your  state-of-the-art  microprocessor 
system. 

•  Mount  any  combination  of  E-Z  CIRCUIT™ 
pressure-sensitive  copper  dual-in-lines  (DIPS), 
and  E-Z  CIRCUIT  wrap  post  sockets  plus 
transistors,  resistors,  capacitors,  E/M  or  SS 
relays,  terminals  and  switches. 

•  Plain,  non-etched  surface  allows  unrestricted 
component  placement  and  maximum  flexibility 
for  the  implementation  of  your  individual  design 


.042"  diameter  holes  on  0.1 "  grid  centers 
Precision   pre-shaped   for  total   compatability 
with  microprocessor  units  specified 
Ideal  for  use  with  E-Z  CIRCUIT'S  pressure- 


sensitive  Copper  PC  Design  System  or  for 
soldering  and  wire  wrapping  applications  using 
E-Z  CIRCUIT'S  standard  hardware  and 
accessories 


V^ 


80  —  32 


BYTE  November  1980 


PLEASE  ORDER  BY  PART  NUMBER 


ec  —  08 


086X  JaqmaAoN  axAfl 


UL8P68  (ZIZ)  11VO  'IH  'M  VO 


$        iped  J3d  siaags  6  ,t*  .9   t92/Z38  on  JapJO 
saueid  puncuB  pue  ja«od  se  asn  joj  ieapi 

S133HS  U3dd03  133d  A  103 


96  IS         13Sd  '3d  sduis  2 

.BC.Z3B  on  J^PJO 
pannbdj  siuiod  tsai  jo  jaqujrtu  joj  itiQ 

dldiS  INIOd  1S31  dBddOO 


1111111111 


s0e>iDed  j»d  00  1$   30ldd 
aCiipCd  '»d  liou  (ooj  01  »"JO  AlUNVflO 
L00ZIEZ39  on  JBPJO 
'    (JtP!M(uJUJSO'S).00Z 

100UE239    ON  JOP'O 
'     '  yiPw  (LUUJ  K'Z)  .001 

3dVl  3AI1V  IflSNI 


00  1  10010CZ38 

001  10500CZ39 
00  L  UC0OtZ39 

oou  isiooczaa 


•  K'i  001 

J/Z'l  0SO 

u  6/0  ICO 

u  SCO  S10 


56  It         Ci'ls  I)  siopnpuo3  :.:,  (O  afie^ed 
ZCEIZ39   ON  'aCJO 

dims  aoionoNoo  aaovdsibd  Haddoo 


OXd  U3d 
30IUd 


ON 

H30UO 


3ZIS 

OIU13H 


3ZIS 
1VHI33Q 


S3dVl  H3dd03 


IKZZ38  wijj  ZO'l  .0t0 
Z0ZIZ3B  UJUizoi  ,0M) 
i>0Z/Z38       ujuj  20  i       .0*0 


UJUiK'2  .001 
ujuj  8l'E  .9ZI 
ujuj  5E'9     -09Z 

3U)»n       IBLUID8Q 


96  1 
56  1$ 


V  Z 1-238 
IZIZ38 


(ujuj  K'Zl.OOt 
(uiuj  iZ'U.OSO 


W'lS      1"d  «d    "l-USl 

IDEIZ38  on  jbpjo 

Ouiovds  )u»uodu)00  .00Z 

Oup«dS  iB.USQ  MOb   .009 

•tuBuodujoa  9(  |0  Duuunouj  s»ony 
dIUlS  !N3NOdWOD 

3I3HDSIQ  H3ddOO 


iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
tiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 


ON 


j*l*iui|a  apttul 

rail 


j*|»uil|a  •pumo 

tool 


30IHd        AID      ON  U3QdO 


tttVU  '*4  OS  li 

(sesjy  IBUIU1J9J.  punoa) 

SQVd  lRNOQ  U3dd03 


M0S13  o06 
H3dd03 


56  1$         sdutS  9  jo   :-'.d 

0»C.Z38   on  JapJO 

dijtsfsped  ir»uoQ  paaedsajd  ie 

SQVd  IflNOQ  Q30VdS3dd  d3ddOO 


toooooooc 


i  e  o  o  o  e  e  e 


IS  6Hd/suj3UBd8 

90nZ38 

on  JapiO 

I  6m  3|OH  njyi) 

aovxovd 

OllSVld  1V~13 
dOiSISNVdl  *  uos 


A 


6^d/Sut3||Bd  9 

90PIZ3B 

on  J»P'0 

(sa6eiped 

Bui.unov^  pnist 

OVIdl  dDS 

U3lrlll'J3d 


ss 


6i|d/sui3iiBd  5 

P0PUZ39 

on  JSPJO 

ONIlNnOH 

30NV~U 

30V*OVd  E-Ol 


SbiD  Nld     ON  U3QUO 


NOUVUnOldNOO  H01D3NNOO  lOVdWOD 

satDH  pai|3i3  PMO-110  oaniHQ-Nn 


£dlJ|S  JO13BUUO0 

SNOUVMmQUNOO 

M0133NNOO 

ni-wii«i 


lei 


SNU311Vd  U01SISNVU1  U3M0d  U3dd03 


uunnuuuuun 

liiiiii 


Ot'tt  1^Bd   i»d   l»S    I 

69EZZ38  on  >%f»0 

B>«)U80 

(ujuj  96  E)  .991    O  ■euouieod  zz 

•■•PIS  luauoduiOQ  v  imojiQ  joj 

gai«  uj*ti*d  jotMuuoa  suo  svpnpui 


SU01|3SUU03 

•)tjtd»s  rf  tMO||t  ujoiiBd  spis 
linoxo  Buiyoituj  ■  put  uj»u*d  »p>« 

|U»UOdUJ03  ■  JO  UOUBuiCJujoa  gill 

NOUVdnDIJNOO 
d0103NNOO 


96  is         D))0,g 

CZ01Z39 

on  j»PjO 

suoisuaujiQ 

peajds 

JO.SiSueji  |Bng 

■p»ri-9  %  Oi 


96  IS  6Hd/9 

9Z0L238 

ON  '»P'0 

SuoisuauiiQ 

peajds 

PBSTji   s-oi 


3u? 


j  IS  6>(d,9 
PZ01Z38 
on  JapJO 

suoisuaujia 

PB8JC)S 

peai-9  5  01 


P* 

W 


96  iS  6^t) 

IZ0LZ38 

on  J3P'0 

fluoeds 

bio  pean  ..ooz 

"peai-E  9  01 


A 


J6  IS  -6»|d/9 
9Z0LZ3B 
on  japiO 

SUOiSuBUJiQ 

psajds 
'pea-)-oi    9  01 


MZt         H3»d  J«d  I0S  I 

99CIZ3S   °N  J»PJO 

sjaiuao  suoipeuuoo 

(ujuj  96'CI  .991'  O  'suoilisod  ;z  »t»j»<l»s  ft  8MO||*  uj«||«d  Bp|B 

:ft*p|S  lueuodujoo  f  jmojio  joj  uoej     \\nai\o  Ouigoituj  *  pu*  ujautd  spis 

uj»u*d  Jp)d*uuoo  buq  sapnpui        lucuoduioa  ■  jo  uoiiiuiqiuoa  buj. 


mwmwmwmw 


SNM311Vd  U0133NN03  U3dd03 


Slit  6<<d/g 

ZZ0LZ38 

on  jsp-o 

Burnetts 

eio  peal  ^ooz 

pean  t  s  oi 


* 


96  IS         sujaued  Z  to   tid 

,  CESIZ3S  iaquinN  BoieiBO 

P**l  dio  uovb  joi  uoueuiuu&i  |Buo<)ippe 

l  BitpOUJUJOSOB  EBBJB  |Buiuij»|  BJ)K3    SJB|U»3  (ujuj   '!<,  Z> 

.001    uo  uoee  sptd  om|  jo  swoj  ienp  99  uo>,dN3S3a 

SB3IABQ 

•un-ui  (Wfl  P»1M  jo  8i   91  >L   01  '9  saiBpoujujODov 


IIIIIIIIIHIIIIItllUIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIttllllllltllllllll 

Nd3iivd  (dia)  avd  319000 


58  It         ujajiBd  I  JO   •■■'<■) 

90ZLZ39  jaqiunN  Boieieo 

paai  dia  uovB  joi  GuoiiBuiuiiat  icuoiiippe 

2  aiapoujujoooc  staje  iBuiujia)  bji>3   sjb|u33  (ujuj  f9  i> 

.001  uo  u»a  sp«d  ea>ui  40  smoj  ienp  99  uoi.dijosaQ 

S»DIA9Q 

aun-u|  |Bng  pvai-OZ  to  Bl   91  >l   01    8  satepoujujossv 


Nb3iivd  (dia)  avd  3ididi 


SNd311Vd  ases  9|Ais  g-Ql  U3dd03 


S6'H         uja»Bd  L  jo  Ond 

S02LZ39  jaQiunN  Boiejeo 

pvai  diQ  uosa  jo)  suoueuioi.si  ibuoiuppb 

E  aitpouiLUOSSB  bbbjb  iPuiujjai  ej)ig   sjaiuao  (uiuj  K'Z) 

.001'  uo  goes  sped  jnoj  (o  smoj  ienp  99   uondu^saa 

saDitaa 

sui  1  ui  iena  pBaioz  jo  81   9l  >l  OL  8  saiepoufuiooov 


Nd3iivd  (dia)  avd  dnod 


SNU311Vd  (dia)  HOVXOVd  3NI1-NI  1VHQ 


96  IS    sduis  C  10  Bid     9ZEIZ39      on '»pJO 


didis  NOiinaidisia  MO«  sianoa 


96  IS    sdNis  9  jo  «M     SZEIZ38     on  JBpjQ 


didis  Nounaidisia  Mod  sionis 


96' it    sdijJSEloDHd    EZEIZ38   on  JBpjQ 


didis  Noaneidisio  avd  bionis 


96  IS     ediJis  £  (0  8>id     LZEIZ38   on  jepjQ 


n    n    n 


■Jj^BUJJJJJjltkUJJJJJBfcujJJJJjfjJi 


dims  Nounaidisia  avd  aiONis 


sdiuis  Nounaidisia  aNnoua  *  u3M0d  U3dd03 

-  -  -  paoN  noA  BumtAjaAg  suiejuoo  IAJ31SAS 

ONIdAXOlOUd  9  ONIOVXOVd  3INOH13313 

U3dd00  aAisueqajduioo  stnnOdlO  Z3 

u6isea  BOB^e\u[  |njsseoon$ 

IAI31SAS  N9IS3Q 


v. 


(H31SAS  SOS  Z  3  l»  »•!•  p«po|d>3) 


S0IN0H10313  3NO  AllUOIUd 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


Model  XIOOW's  mini  size  and  Finger-eze  Hypo-Action  permit  direct  multiple  hookups  to  one  pin,  even 
with  wire  wraps.  Connects  vertically  or  horizontally. 


IMPORTANT  ORDERING  INFORMATION 

Most  Items  Available  in  10  Retma  Colors: 
BK- BLACK  BR -BROWN  RD  -  RED 

OR -ORANGE  YE -YELLOW  GN  -  GREEN 

BU-BLUE  VT-  VIOLET  GY  -  GREY 

WH- WHITE  S-  ONE  EACH  OF  ALL  10  COLORS 

COLOR:     Must  be  replaced  with  one  of  the 
above  ABBREVIATIONS. 


X100W  MINI  HOOK 

2.25' 

The  X100W  Mini-Hook  combines  all  the  proven 
features  that  have  made  all  E-Z-Hook  products  the 
most  used  Test  and  Trouble  Shooting  Aids 
available.  The  concave  Plunger  configuration  and 
built-in  Washer  provide  tireless  Finger-eze  Hypo- 
Action  tor  fast,  safe,  short-free  testing.  Hook  is 
large  enough  to  span  most  component  leads,  yet 
small  enough  to  get  into  tight  places.  Tough,  for 
continued  use  production  testing,  yet  so  gentle,  it 
will  not  damage  delicate  components.  Insulated  to  a 
single  contact  point  for  true  readings. 

EZH-X100W  ■  COLOR $.98 

EZH-X1 00 w  S  - 1  ea.  1 0  colors $9.50 

JUMPER-MINI-HOOK  TO  MINI-HOOK 


SPECIFY 


Part  Number 

EZH204I2-COLOR 
EZH20412-S  I  ea   ID  colors 
EZH204-24-CO!l)A 
EZH204-24-S  1  ea.  10  colors 
EZH204-36-C0L0R 
EZH204-36-S  1  ea.  10  colors 


MINI-HOOK  TO  STACKING  BANANA  PLUG 

32' 780cm 

EZH-201W-HDorBK $1.95 

MINI-HOOK  TO  MINIATURE  BANANA  PLUG 
EZH-CZIW-RD  or  BK $2.25 


MINI-HOOK  to  .025"  (.635  mm)  SQUARE  SOCKET 
WITH  HEAT  SHRINK  INSULATOR 


E-Z-LINK 

0.25"  SQUARE  SOCKET  CONTINUOUS  JUMPERS 

E-Z-Link  Continuous  Jumpers  were  designed  to 
facilitate  pre-testing  back-panel  layouts  before  final 
wire  wrapping.  Consisting  of  insulated  ,025" 
(,635mm)  Square  Socket  Connectors  evenly  spac- 
ed on  3' '  centers,  E-Z-Links  individually  snap  over 
standard  wire  wrapping  pins  to  form  any  desired 
network.  Eliminate  costly  in-plant  measuring,  strip- 
ping and  crimping 
6ZH-L3025-BL  or  RD-pkg.  ol  25 $19.95 


XM  MICRO  HOOK 


XPL  PROBE  CABLES 


1.75" 

The  XM  Micro  Hook  is  designed  for  difficult  IC  test 
connections.  Light  weight  (less  than  1  gram)  and 
Finger-eze  Hypo  Action  permit  direct  hook  up  to 
delicate  wires  where  weight  and  leverage  may 
damage  component. 

EZH-XM    COLOR $.99 

EZH-XMS  - 1  ea.  10  colors $9.60 

JUMPER-MICRO-HOOK 
TO  MICRO-HOOK 


SPECIFY  LENGTH 


XI OOW  GROUND 


SPECIFY 
LENGTH 


BNC  MALE  TO  BNC  MALE,  WEATHERPROOF, 
WITH  STRAIN  RELIEF  BOOTS 


SPECIFY 
LENGTH 


Part  Number 


EZH-XM- 1 2  COLOR 
EZH-XM- 1 2- S  I  ea.  10  colors 
EZH-XM-24-C0L0R 
EZH-XM  24-S  1  ea.  ID  colors 
EZH-XM-36-C0L0R 
EZH-XM-36-SI  ea.  10  colors 


12 

$  225 

12 

$21.50 

24 

$  2.25 

24 

$21.50 

3fi 

$  2.25 

38 

$21.50 

Cable:RG58C/U 
Part  Number 

EZH-1026-24 
EZH-1026-36 
EZH-1026-48 


PRICE 


Wire  Length 

Inches 

24  $6.50 

36  $6.50 

48  $6.50 


MICRO-HOOK  TO  STANDARD  BANANA  PLUG 

32"/80cm 


EZH-BXM-RD  or  BK $1.95 


TEST  CABLE  WALL  BRACKET 

Deep  Slots  hold 
Test  Cables  for 
Easy  Selection. 
Half  slot  on  each  end    ■ 
end  permits-mounting 
of  two  or  more  units 
side  by  side  with  no 
loss  of  space 
between  racks. 

EZH-WB6  -  S3  00 


Blftji 


/ 


VIMMH  I  l»l" 


BNC  FEMALE  TO  BNC 


EZH  9220 $2.00 


BNC  FEMALE  TO  UHF  MALE  ADAPTER 
EZH-9001  $3.6 


STANDARD  BANANA  PLUG 
EZH-9202-C0L0R  pkg.  2 $1.20 

j :.":.  I 

PANEL  MOUNT  STANDARD  BANANA  JACK 
EZH-9217-C0L0R  pkg.  4 $2.00 


PART  SUBSTITUTION  CLIP 
EZH-71-l-BKpkg.2 $2.10 


£=Q 


SUM-LINE  TEST  CONNECTOR 

Slim   Line  Probe  with  lightweight  construction. 
Screw  on  cover  for  ready  access  to  repair  or  replace 
Internal  circuitry  nr  connections. 
EZH-54-1-R0  or  BK $1.95 


■ 


BNC  FEMALE  TO  STANDARD  DOUBLE 
BANANA  PLUG  ADAPTOR 


EZH-9225 $3.75 


flMMj  . 


BNC  FEMALE  PANEL  RECEPTACLE 
EZH-9230 $1.20 


BNC  MALE  CONNECTOR  FOR  RG58C/U  CABLE 
EZH-8901  $1.75 


BNC  T  ADAPTOR  -  2  FEMALE 
AND  1  MALE  CONNECTORS 

EZH-9238 $4.95 


UHF  MALE  CONNECTOR  FOR  RG58C/U  CABLE 
EZH-8911  $1.50 

I 


STACKING  BANANA  PLUG 
EZH-9203  RD  or  BK  pkg.  2 $1.50 


STANDARD  BANANA  JACK 
EZH-9210  RO  or  BK  pkg.  2 $1.50 


STACKING  DOUBLE  BANANA  PLUG 


EZH-0B750 $2.10 


ALLIGATOR  CLIP  LEAD  SETS 


10  color  coded  mini 

clip  leads  15  inches 

long.  2  each  red,  green, 

yellow,  black,  and 

white. 
CAL-ACL 1015      S2.19 


10  color  coded  standard 

clip  leads  15  inches 

long.  2  each  red,  green, 

yellow,  black,  and 

white. 

CAL-ACL-1015H      $2.69 


80  —  34 


BYTE  November  1980 


PLEASE  ORDER  BY  PART  NUMBER 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


ii 


» 


introducing  the  great  new 

'Super-Grip  IT 

test  clip  from  A  P  Products 

22  new  models  for  troubleshooting  DIP's  safely  and  quickly 


CHECK  THESE  UNIQUE  FEATURES: 


Naw  "narrow  nose'  shape  allows  easy  attachment  on  high 
density  boards.  Fits  onto  IC't  with  only  .040"  between 
opposing  rows  of  leads. 

New  "nail-head"  pins  keep  probe 
hooks  from  sliding  off  ends. 


When  we  invented  the  original  A  P  Super- 
Grip  test  clip  in  1967,  we  thought  it  was  perfect.  .  . 
but  look  at  the  improvements  we've  made! 

In  the  process,  we've  retained  every  invaluable 
design  feature  that  assures  ultra-reliable,  non- 
shorting  electrical  connections  with  positive  clamp- 
ing action. 

And  here  are  more  bonus  features: 

■  Proven  Alloy  770  contacts  for  optimum 
wiping  action. 

■  New  one-piece  body  for  each  DIP  size. 
TC-14  fits  14-pin  DIP,  etc. 

■  Simplifies  prototype  and  production 
testing,  field  service  work,  and  Quality 
Control  inspection. 


Steel  pin  and 
hinge  design. 
Made  to  last! 


Heavy-duty,  industrial- 
grade  springs  for  firm 
contact  pressure. 
They'll  keep  their 
spring  indefinitely. 
No  intermittents. 


Also     available     with     long, 
headless,    test    lead    pins    for- 

attaching     AP     juniper     Cable    Both  rows  of  contacts  are  the  same  length 
assemblies...  <not  offset)  and  do  not  have  "nail-heads". 

STANDARD  TEST  CLIP 


Offset  pin  rows  allow  probes  to  hang 

free  on  longer  pins  in  the  top  row  and 
not  interfere  with  shorter  pins  In  the 
bottom  row. 


New  "open-nose"  design  now  permits 
probe  tip  access  at  DIP  leads. 


1 1  *  ?  f  J®»  f  J 


"Contsct  comb"  fits  between 
DIP  leads  —  eliminating 
any  possibilities  of  shorts. 


Rugged,  engineering  grade 
thermoplastic  body  molded 
around  contact  pins. 


us    P m    N«.  fto 


another  "Faster  &  Easier"  innovation  from 
AP  PRODUCTS  INCORPORATED 


^753  INTRA-CONNECTOR 


PROVIDES  FULL 
ACCESS  TO 
LINES  .  .  . 
SAVES  VALUABLE 
TIME  TESTING 
FLAT  RIBBON 
CABLE  SYSTEMS 


*  Permits  quick  testing 
of  previously  unprobe- 
sble  circuits. 

■  Provides  both  straight 
in  end  right-angle  func- 
tions. 

■  Metes    with     stsndard 

.10" x.  10"  dual-row  con- 
nectors. 


The  A  P  Infra-Connector  al 
lows  immediate  access  to  pre 
viously  inaccessible  lines.  In 
use,  the  connector  is  inter- 
jected between  mating  system 
connectors  to  provide  external 
pin  contacts  that  can  be 
probed  individually  or  con- 
nected to  another  cable  as- 
sembly; pins  also  can  be  used 
to  facilitate  daisy  chaining 
from  a  single  connector  cable 
end. 

Two  Intra-Connectors  used 
in  conjunction  with  the  A  P 
Intra-Swttch  form  a  complete 
test  assembly  for  probing  sig- 
nals under  no  load  and  full 
load  conditions. 

Contacts  are  non-corrosive 
alloy  770.  Body  is  glass-filled 
polyester. 


PART  NUMBER 

MODEL  NUMBER 

ROW  TO  ROW 

SPACING 

1-49 

PRICING  SCHEDULE 
60-99        100-249 

250-499 

APP 

923695 

TC-8 

.3  IN. 

$  7.35 

$  6.90 

$  6.60 

$  6.30 

APP 

923698 

TC-14 

.3  IN. 

$  4.50 

$  4.07 

S  3.82 

$  369 

APP 

923700 

TC-16 

.3  IN. 

S  4.75 

$  4.28 

$  4.04 

$  3.90 

APP 

923702 

TC-16LSI 

.5/6  IN. 

$  8.95 

$  8.40 

$  8.05 

$  7.70 

APP 

923703 

TCI  8 

.3  IN. 

J10.00 

$  9.40 

$  9.00 

$  8.60 

APP 

923704 

TC-20 

.3  IN. 

SI  1.55 

SI  0.86 

$10.40 

$  9.95 

APP 

923706 

TC-22 

.4  IN. 

$12.95 

$12.17 

$11.67 

$11.17 

APP 

923714 

TC24 

.5/.6  IN. 

$13.85 

$12.47 

$11  77 

SI  1.36 

APP 

923718 

TC-28 

.5/.6  IN. 

J15.25 

$14.35 

$13.75 

$13.10 

APP 

923720 

TC-36 

.5/6  IN. 

SI  9.95 

$18.75 

$17.95 

$17.15 

APP 

923722 

TC-40 

.5/.6  IN. 

$21.00 

$19,75 

$18.90 

$18.05 

PART  NUMBER 

HEADLESS  TEST  CLIP 

PRICING  SCHEDULE 
ROW  TO  ROW 
MODEL  NUMBER           SPACING             1-49           50-99         100-249 

250  499 

APP-923690-8 

LTC-8 

.3  IN. 

$  7.35 

$  6.90 

$  6.60 

$  6.30 

APP-92369014 

LTC-14 

.3  IN. 

$  4.50 

$  4.07 

$  3.82 

$3.69 

APP-923690  16 

LTC-16 

.3  IN. 

S  4.75 

$  4.28 

$  4.04 

$  3.90 

APP-923690-16L 

LTC16LSI 

.5/.6IN. 

$  8.95 

$  840 

$  8.05 

$  7.70 

APP  923690-18 

LTC-16 

.3  IN. 

$10.00 

$  9.40 

$  9.00 

$  8.60 

APP-923690-20 

LTC-20 

.3  IN. 

$11.55 

$10.85 

$10.40 

$  9.95 

APP-923690-22 

LTC-22 

.4  IN. 

$1295 

$12.17 

$11.67 

$11.17 

APP-92369024 

ITC-24 

.5/6  IN. 

$13.95 

$12.47 

$11.77 

$11.36 

APP-923690-28 

LTC-28 

.5/6  IN. 

$15.25 

$14.35 

$13.75 

$13.10 

APP-923690-36 

LTC-36 

.5/6  IN. 

$19.95 

$18.75 

$17.95 

$17.15 

APP-923690-40 

LTC-40 

.5/.6  IN. 

$21.00 

$19.75 

$18.90 

$18.05 

No.  of      Dim. 
Contacts    "A" 


Part 
Number 


Model        Price 
No.  Each 


20 
26 
34 
40 
50 


1.160  APP-922576-20 

1.460  APP-922576-26 

1.860  APP-922576-3. 

2.160  APP-922576-4C 

2.660  APP-922576-50 


-\  «■  r 


iooivp 

t 


■  « 

•  » 
it 


y 


IC-20 
IC-26 
IC-34 
IC-40 
IC-50 


TYP 


$6.00 
6.90 
8.10 
9.00 

10.50 


TVP 
MO  TVP 


No.  of      Dim. 
Contacts    "A" 


20 
26 
34 
40 
50 


XX 
XX 
XX 
XX 
XX 
XX 
XX' 
XX' 


INTRA-SWITCH 

ALLOWS  ANY  LINE 
TO  BE  OPENED  OR 
CLOSED . . . 
ANOTHER  TIME 
SAVER  IN  TESTING 
FLAT  RIBBON 
I  CABLE  SYSTEMS 


■  Permits  instant  line-by- 
line switching  for  diag 
nostic  or  QA  testing. 

■  Switches  ectusted  with 
pencil  or  probe  tip. 

■  Metes  with  stendsrd 
.10'  x.  10" dual-row  con- 
nectors. 

The  A  P  Intra  Switch  allows 
opening  and  closing  any  num- 
ber of  lines,  individually,  at 
system  interconnection 
points.  Applications  include 
switching  command  signals  to 
control  boards  as  well 
switching  I/O  signals  to  or 
from  test  equipment  and  for 
programming  optional  preset 
logic  functions. 

Design  features  include: 
low  profile  for  use  in  confined 
areas,  switch  buttons  reces 
sed  in  face  of  covers  to  elimi- 
nate accidental  switching,  and 
position  "1"  identification. 

Wiping  action  and  spherical 
detents  maximize  contact  in 
tegrity. 

An  Intra-switch  used  ir 
conjunction  with  two  A  P  In 
tra-Connectors  form  a  com 
plete  test  assembly  for  pro 
bing  signals  under  no  load  and 
full  load  conditions. 

Contacts  are  non-corrosive 
alloy  770.  Body  is  glass-filled 
polyester. 


Part 
Number 


1.160 
1.460 
1.860 
2.160 
2.660 


APP-922578-2C 
APP-922578-2C 
APP-922578-34 
APP-922578-40 
APP-922578-50 


Model 

Price 

No. 

Each 

IS-20 

$12.00 

IS-26 

13.80 

IS-34 

16.20 

IS-40 

18.00 

IS-50 

21.00 

_I7 


2*0     4O0 


-  r-      OWTVP 


« 


-~r  tit. 


Lff 


=     TVP 

1 


PLEASE  ORDER  BY  PART  NUMBER 


BYTE  November  1980  80  —  35 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


m 


DIP 
JUMPERS 

FLAT  RIBBON  CABLE 
ASSEMBLIES  WITH 
DIP  CONNECTORS 

•  Available  with  14, 16,  24  and 
40  contacts. 

•  Mate  with  standard  IC  sockets. 

•  Fully  assembled  and  tested. 

•  Integral  molded-on  strain 
relief. 

•  Discrete  test  points  for  line- 
by-line  probeability. 


CALL  FOR  QTY.  PRICING 


SINGLE-ENDED 
DIP  JUMPERS 


No. 
Contacts 

Length 
36" 

14 

APP-924102-36 
$3.49 

IS 

APP-9241 12-36 

53.69 

24 

APP-9241 22-36 
BUM 

A  P  DIP  Jumpers  are  the  low-cost,  high-quality  solution  tor 
jumpering  within  a  PC  board;  interconnecting  between  PC  boards, 
backplanes  and  motherboards;  interfacing  Input/  Output  signals; 
and  more. 

All  assemblies  use  rainbow  cable.  Standard  lengths  are  6, 12. 18, 24 
and  36  inches. 


«  APP-924132-36 

40  $10.09 

DOUBLE-ENDED  DIP  JUMPERS 


■a 
CortKU 

Lmgth 

r 

Lwiglh 

Lsngth 

ir 

Lmjtti 
24" 

length 
J6" 

H 

APP-9Z410W 
CM 

APP-924I06-I? 
S3  96 

APP-92410J-1S 
HI  9 

APP424106-Z4 
K49 

APP-92410636 

M 

IB 

APP4Z41IM 

tug 

APP-02411612 

4PP-924I16I8 
S4M 

APP-9241 16-24 
SABS 

APP-9241 1636 
tS49 

14 

APP424IZH 

ait 

»PP  9241261! 
SM9 

APP-9241 2S-I I 
1719 

APP024I 26-24 

17  69 

APP-9241 2639 

tug 

40 

APP4241JW 

Stan 

APP-924I3M2 
III  IS 

APP  92413618 
112.1)9 

APP-B24 136-24 
112.99 

APP-924I36J6 
11479 

m 


i  A 


A  P  PRODUCTS  INCORPORATED 
FLAT  RIBBON 
CABLE  ASSEMBLIES 

•  Choice  of  3  types  of  end  connectors  molded  on  and 
factory  tested. 

•  Daisy  chain  and  single-end  also  available. 

•  5  popular  sizes  to  choose  from:  20, 26, 34, 40  and  50 
contacts,  each  with  line-by-line  probe  access  holes. 

•  Choice  of  2  cable  types  and  5  lengths. 
FLAT  RIBBON  CABLE 

Stranded,  28  AWG  with  laminated  PVC  insulation. 

"Electric  Pink"  cable  has  red  stripe  on  one  edge  for 
orientation.  Used  only  on  double-end  and  daisy  chain 
assemblies. 

"Rainbow"  cable  is  coded  in  standard  10-color 
sequence  on  front.  Serpentine  striping  on  back  aids 
in  identifying  wire  number  and  wire  group  during  tear 
down  separation  for  discrete  wire  terminations.  Used 
only  on  single-end  jumpers. 


/ 


CARD-EDGE  JUMPERS 

Mates  with  double-sided 
V16"  PC  board  up  to 
2.050"  wide  with  contact 
fingers  on  .100"  centers. 
Probe  access  holes  in 
back. 


CARD-EDGE  JUMPERS 

DOUBLE  END  SINGLE  END  DAISY  CHAIN 

Electric  Pink  Rainbow  13  connKlortl 

Electric  Pink 

r ar r 


APP-924052-06-1)    APP  924062-36  B    APP  924092  06  fl 
88.89 J64J 813.29 


APP-924053-06-8    APP  924063-36-R    APP92409306P 
89.99 1759 II4J9 


APP -924064-06-8    APP-924064-38-8    APP  924094068 
81239 SOS) 818.49 


/ 


APP-924055-06-B   APP-9240S5J8-B   APP  924086O8-R 
814.46 811-19 821.89 


APP  92405606R    APP  924066-36  8    APP-924096O6-8 
81589  812.79  82349 


SOCKET  JUMPERS 

Mates  with  .025"  square 
or  dia.  posts  spaced  on 
patterns  of  .100"  centers. 
Probe  access  holes  in 
back. 

SOCKET  JUMPERS 

DOUBLE  EN0  JUMPER  ASSEMBLIES 
Stearic  Pink  Cibli 


SINSLE  END 
flllnbow 


DAIST  CHAIN 
[3  connsclonj 
Hiclrlc  Pink 


APP  924002-06-8    APP  924002-168    APP  924002  36-8    APP  924012-36-8    APP924072O6B 
84W 8609 8659 KM 8739 


APP  9240034)6-8  APP  924003  18-8  APP 924003-368  APP  92401336-8  APP  924073-06  R 
88-49 J72? 865J J6M 8969 

APP  924004-068  APP  924004  18R  APP92400436B  APP92401436B  APP-92407M6-8 
8649 SIM ill  19 88.29  812.69 


APP  924005-068    APP  924005  18-8    APP  924005-369    APP924016368    APP  924075-068 
89.99 $1L5» 8J2M 8069 814.89 


APP  924006-06H    APP-924006IB-B    APP-92400636-B    APP-ffiWKHS-n    APP-924076O8-B 
812.39  813.99  816.29  811.99  818.49 


double-row 
JUMPER  HEADERS 


'''MALE  and  FEMALE 


Ideal  mates  for  "GREAT  JUMPERS" 


Solder  to  PC  boards 
for  instant  plug-in 
access  via  socket- 
connector  jumpers 

.025"  square  posts  are 
molded  into  plastic 
header  strip  on  a 
.10"  x  .10"  matrix 

Choice  of  straight 
or  right  angle  con- 
figurations 


MATERIALS:  Dielectric  is  thermoplastic  polyester,  unaffected  bv  wave 
soldering  or  board  cleaning  solvents.  Posts  are  fabricated  from  copper 
alloy 


HEADERS 


FEMALE   HEADERS 

■  Mate  with  matrices  of  .025"  square 
or  round  posts  on  .100"  centers 

■  Ideal  as  single  and  dual-row  cable 
connectors  for  back  panels  and 
patchboard  matrices 

■  36  "tuning  fork"  contacts  per  row 
in  rugged  nylon  header  strip 

■  May  be  "cut-to-length"  for  shorter 
rows  of  contacts 

■  Single  and  dual-row  strips  available 

Female  A  P  Headers  are  siackable  to 
maintain  .100-inch  row  !o-row  spacing. 
Solder  tails  are  sized  for  PC  board  mount 
inq  or  cable  attachment.  Built-in  stand 
oils  facilitate  wave  soldering  and  board 
cleaning.  Dual-row  headers  are  ultra- 
sonically  welded  at  the  factory. 


STRAIGHT 


No. 
Posts 


aim. 

"A" 


Dim. 


Part 
Number 


Price 
2  sets 


100  TYP   -      - 


WnrtlTuTlTTTtrT 


4 


zo 

26 
34 
40 

so 


RIGHT  ANGLE 


No. 
Posts 


1.0 
1.3 
1.7 
2.0 
2.5 


Dim 
"A" 


0.9 
1.2 
1.6 
1.9 
2.4 


APP-923862-R 
APP-923B63-R 
APP-923864-R 
APP-923865-R 
APP-923866-R 


Pari 
Number 


SI. 59 
$1.89 
$2.39 
$2.79 
$3.39 


Price 
2  sets 


20 
26 
34 
40 
50 


1.0 
1.3 
1.7 
2.0 
2.5 


0.9 
1.2 
1.6 
1.9 
2.4 


APP  923872  R  $1.89 

APP-923873-R  $2.39 

APP-923874-R  $2.99 

APP-923875R  $3.49 

APP-923876-R  $4.29 


Tvpical  application:  board-to-board  interconnection. 

MALE  HEADERS-STRAIGHT  &  RIGHT  ANGLE 
For  economical  attachment  of  complete  matrices  of  .025" 
square  posts  to  PC  boards  to  serve  as  male  contacts  for 
interconnection  systems 

Ideal  for  mating  with  single  and  dual-row  female  con- 
nectors; also  use  as  patch-board  for  discrete,  single- 
position  connections 

■  36  posts  per  row  —  molded  into  nylon  header  strip 
Break-to-length"  feature  allows  making  short  rows 

Male  A  P  Headers  are  stackable  to  maintain  .100  inch  row-to-row 
spacing.  All  may  be  wire  wrapped  on  reverse  side  of  PC  board. 
Built-in  stand-offs  facilitate  wave  soldering  and  board  cleaning. 
Dual-row  headers  are  ultrasonically  welded  at  the  factory. 

MATERIALS 

DIELECTRIC:  Thermoplastic 

polyester. 
POSTS:  Full-hard  copper 

alloy  770. 


FBmale     Rows       Part  No.       Price  Ea. 


1 

APP-929974 

$1.49 

2 

APP-929975 

$3.09 

MODELS  for  wire  wrapping 

Male  1600)  Rows 

Part  No. 

Price  Ea. 

Straight 

1 

APP-929834-0S 

$2.29 

Straight 

2 

APP  929836-05 

$4.59 

Rl  angle 

1 

APP-929835-03 

$2.09 

Rl  angle 

2 

APP-929838-03 

$4.59 

7ar7  length  shown  as  (.600)  in  drawings. 

Male  1.1001 

Rows 

Pari  No. 

Price  Ea. 

Straight  1  APP-929834-01  $1.09 

Straight  2  APP-929636-01  $2.29 

RL  angle  1  APP-929835-01  $1.29 

fit  angle  2  APP-929838-01  $2.99 


80  —  36 


BYTE  November  1980 


CALL  FOR  QUANTITY  PRICING 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


Introducing 

POWERACE 

Use  a  POWERACE  for  faster  and  easier 
prototyping  of  all  types  of  electronic  circuits 

•  1680  sotderless.  plug-In  tie  points.. .will  hold  up  to  18  14-pin  DIP't. 

•  Breadboard  elements  accept  all  DIP  sizes.. .including  RTL.  DTL,  TTLand  CMOS  devices, 
TO-5's  and  discretes  with  leads  up  to  .032"  dla. 

•  All  connections  to/from  switches.  Indicators,  power  supplies  and  meters  are  made  via 
solderless,  plug-in,  tie-point  blocks  on  control  panels. 

•  Interconnect  with  any  solid  20  to  30  AWG  wire. 

•  Breadboard  elements  are  mounted  on  ground  planes... ideal  for  high-frequency  and 
high-speed/low-noise  circuits. 

•  Short-circuit-proof  fused  power  supplies. 

•  Operate  on  110  to  130  VAC  at  60  Hz. 

•  Space-age  compact  styling  and  high-grade  components  permit  convenient,  organized 
and  quick  prototyping.  SHIPPING  WEIGHT  -  4  LBS^ 


POWERACE  103 
APP-923103 


POWERACE  101 

APP-923101 


POWERACE  102 

APP-923102 


$124.95         $79.95       $124.95 


Triple-output  power 
supply  for  prototyp- 
ing both  linear  and 
digital  circuits. 


The  general  purpose 
model  for  prototyp- 
ing all  types  of 

cimujts. 


The  complete  digital 
prototyping  lab  with 
FREE  logic  probe 
built  in! 


An  inree  of  these  brand  new  POWERACE  mooeis 
offer  a  new  dimension  In  convenience  lor  fast  solder- 
less,  circuit  building  and  testing. 

In  addition  to  built  in  power  supplies,  each  model 
incorporates  two  ol  the  famous  AP  Products  Super 
Strip  universal  plug-in  breadboards.  (See  Super 
Strip  page  lor  complete  details.)  Combined,  they 
provide  16  distribution  buses  of  25  lie  points  per 

POWERACE  101 

POWER  SUPPLY  is  required  and  adjustable  from 
•5  to  +15  VDC  at  600  mA.  Ripple/noise  is 
elO  mV  at  lull  load.  Line  and  load  regula- 
tion is  s£3'/ti. 

METER  is  built  in  0-15  VOC.  Inputs  are  accessible 
at  lie  point  blocks  on  control  panel  which 
allows  monitoring  of  power  supply  or  cir- 
cuits. Meter  accuracy  is  5%  of  full  scale. 

POWERACE  103 

TRIPLE-OUTPUT  POWER  SUPPLY  has  outputs  of 
+5  VDC  at  750  mA;  +15  VDC  at  250  mA:  and 
-15  VOC  at  250  mA.  Ripple/noise  is  10 
mV  at  lull  toad  for  all  outputs.  Line  and  load 
regulation  is  t;l%  lor  all  outputs,  i  15-volt 
outputs  track. 

METER  is  built  in  15-0-15  VDC.  Input  is  accessible 
at  tie-point  blocks  on  control  panel  which 
allows  monitoring  of  power  supply  or  cir- 
cuits. Meter  accuracy  is  5Do  ol  full  scale. 

TWO  LOGIC  INDICATORS  (LED  s|  have  buffered 
inputs  that  require  1  microamp  max. 

TWO  LOGIC  SWITCHES,  momentary,  with 
denounce  circuitry.  Both  Q  and  Q  outputs 
can  sink  15  mA.  and  source  5  mA. 

TWO  DATA  SWITCHES  with  logic  1  and  logic  0 
outputs  have  unlimited  sinking  capabilities 
and  can  source  10  mA.        


bus.  These  may  be  jumpered  in  groups  as  desired 
and  used  for  voltage  and  ground  distribution,  reset 
lines,  clock  lines,  shift  command,  etc.  The  remaining 
1280  tie  points  are  for  plugging  in  circuit  com- 
ponents and  jumper  wires. 

As  a  bonus,  a  free  logic  probe  is  incorporated  Into 
model  102. 

POWERACE  102 
POWER  SUPPLY  is  regulated  +5  VDC  at  1  amp. 
Ripple/noise  Is  -sJO  mV  at  lull  load.  Line 
and  load  regulation  is  =sl%. 
PULSE  DETECTION  WITH  MEMORY  is  built-in. 
Will  detect  positive  or  negative  going  pulses 
as  short  as  10  nanoseconds.  Memory  is 
reset  by  momentary  switch  on  control  panel. 
THREE  LOGIC  INDICATORS  |LED's|  have  buffered 
Inputs  that  require  1  microamp  max. 

FREE  LOGIC  PROBE  the  above  pulse 

detection  with  memory  plus  logic 
indicator  features  constitute  a  tree, 
built-in  logic  probe1 

TWO  LOGIC  SWITCHES,  momentary,  with 
debounce  circuitry.  Both  Q  and  Q  outputs 
can  sink  15  mA.  and  source  5  mA. 

FOUR  DATA  SWITCHES  with  logic  1  or  logic  0 
outputs  have  unlimited  sinking  capabilities 
and  can  source  10  mA. 

CLOCK  GENERATOR  has  the  following  frequencies 
available:  1  Hz.  10  Hz.  100  Hz,  1  KHz.  10  KHz 
and  1 00  KHz  with  a  50%  duty  cycle.  C  output 
will  sink  15  mA  and  source  5  mA.  C  output 
will  sink  or  source  50  mA. 

ONE-SHOT  PULSE  GENERATOR  has  output  of  7  ms 
pulse,  positive  or  negative  going.  Both  Q 
and  Q  outputs  can  sink  15  mA  and  source 
400  microamps.         


§NK  SUPER-STRIPS 

UNIVERSAL  BREADBOARDING  ELEMENTS 
WITH  SOLDERLESS  PLUG-IN  TIE  POINTS 

I1  ■  '" It 


■  Combine  distribution  system  with 

universal  .1"  x  .1"  matrix 

■  840  solderless.  plug-in  tie-points 

•  Accommodates  up  to  9 14-pin  DIPs 

■  Compatible  with  all  DIP's  and  dis- 
cretes with  lead  diameters  to  .032" 

■  Require  no  special  patch  cords 

The  A  P  Super-Strips  combine  a  power/sig- 
nal distribution  system  with  a  matrix  of  128  ter- 
minals, each  with  5  tie  points.  The  distribution 
system  consists  of  eight  buses,  each  individual 
bus  consisting  of  a  line  of  25  tie  points.  All  tie 
points  are  the  solderless,  plug-in  type  of  the 
same  design  used  on  A  P  Terminal  Strips  and 
A'  P  Distribution  Strips. 


The  Super  Strip  will  accept  all  DIP'S,  TO-5's 
and  discrete  components  with  lead  diameters 
up  to  .032  inches.  As  many  as  nine  14-pin  DIP's 
can  be  accommodated.  Any  solid  wire  up  to 
No.  20  A.W.G.  can  be  used  for  interconnec- 
tions. 

Super-Strips  may  be  permanently  mounted 
with  the  integral  non-shorting  instant-mount- 
ing backing,  or  for  quick  removal,  they  may  be 
mounted  with  screws  (supplied)  on  panels  up 
to  1/8"  thick.  Hardware  and  mounting  tem- 
plates are  provided  with  every  strip  Body  ma- 
terial is  acetal  copolymer. 

SS-2  (Alloy  770  terminals!     A  PA  923252       $17.00 

SS-1  IGold-plated  terminals)   APA-923748     $29.95 


TERMINAL  and  DISTRIBUTION  STRIPS 


Model  2641  Terminal  Strip, 

AP^92326t......tlfJB 

Model  212B  Distribution  Strip, 
24  four-tie  point  terminals, 

APP-923277 $2.50 


Modet  248L  Terminal  Strip, 
96  five  tie  point  terminals, 

APP-923265 S10.00 

BREADBOARDING 
BUILDING  BLOCKS  WITh 
UNIVERSAL  MATRICES 

OF  SOLDERLESS  APP-923281 $2.25 

PLUG-IN  TIE-POINTS 


'..,.'.:":: 


.I209RDKT 


mon  Smp. 


Model  264R  Terminal  Strip, 
128  (our-tie  point  terminals 

APP-923289 $10.00 

Mode)  1540  Terminal  Strip 
54  four  tie  point  Terminals 

APP-923291 $6.00 

Model  606R  Distribution  Smp, 
36  four  tie-point  terminals, 

APP-923293 $3.50 


K::B:jl\ ===!:===  *  ^■l*iv!^*\\m<-l  ■ 


JUMPER  WIRE  KIT 

Each  kit  contains  350  wires  cut  to 
14  different  lengths  from  0.1 "  to  5.0." 

Each  wire  is  stripped  and  the 
leads  are  bent  90°  for  easy  insertion. 

Wire  length  is  classified  by  color 
coding. 

All  wire  is  solid  tinned  22  gauge 
with  PVC  insulation. 

The  wires  come  packed  in  a 
convenient  plastic  box. 


_B    APP-92335I  JK-1 . . .  $10.95 

■  


for  fast, 

solderless, 


All-Circuit 
Evaluator 


plug-in  circuit 


building  and  testing 


Just  plug  in  any  components  with  leads  to  .032"  dia.  Inte 
connect  with  solid  wire  up  to  20  ga.  Assembled  models  too 


Part 

ACE 

Tit 

DIP 

No. 

No. 

Board  Size 

Price      ^^^. 

No. 

Model  No. 

Points 

Capacity 

Buses 

Posts 

(inches) 

Each             ^ 

APP-923333 

200-K  (kit) 

728 

8(16's) 

2 

2 

4-9/16x5-9/16 

$18.95 

APP923332 

208  (assem.) 

872 

8(16's) 

8 

2 

4-9/16x5-9/16 

28.95 

APP-923334 

20I-K  (kit) 

1032 

12  (14's) 

2 

2 

16x7 

24.95 

APP-92333I 

2I2  (assem.) 

1224 

12  (14s) 

8 

2 

4-9/16  x  7 

34.95 

APP-923326 

218  (assem) 

1760 

18  (14s) 

10 

2 

6-1/2x7-1/8 

46.95 

APP-923325 

227  (assem.) 

2712 

27  (14's) 

28 

4 

8x9-1/4 

59.95 

APP-923324 

236 (assem ) 

3648 

36(14's) 

36 

4 

10-1/4x9-1/4 

79.95 

Gold-anodized  aluminum  base/ 

ground;  non-corrosive  nickel-si 

ver  terminals:  4  rubber  feet- 

SHIPPING  WEIGHT 

ACE  • 


Model 
236 


CA,  AK,  HI,  CALL  (213)  894-8171 


BYTE  November  1980 


80  —  37 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


PROTO-BOARD^  UNITS 

All  the  speed  and  convenience  of  GT  sockets  and  Bus 
Strips  plus  backplanes  and  binding  posts  in  both  kits  and 
preassembled  units.  Assemble,  test  and  modify  circuits  as 
fast  as  voucan  think;. 


•  IS  COntlMtltKl  SMCWITHS  OOHTOMTKM 


PROTO-BOARD  PB-6  KIT- 
HOLDS  10, 14  PIN  IC'S 

Contains  one  preassembled  QT-47S  socket,  two  pre- 
assembled QT-47B  bus  strips,  tour  binding  posts,  metat 
ground/base  plate,  non-marring  feet  and  all  hardware.  Ten 
minute  assembly  time.  Size:  6"  I,  x  4"  w.  x  1,4"  h.  Weight: 
7  ozs. 
GSCPB6 $19.95 

PROTO-BOARD  PB-100  KIT- 
HOLDS  10, 14  PIN  IC'S 

Contains  two  preassembled  QT-35S  sockets,  one  pre- 
assembled QT-35B  bus  strip,  two  binding  posts,  non-me- 
tallic base  plate,  non-marring  feet  and  all  hardware.  Ten 
minute  assembly  time.  Size:  4.5"  w.  x  6"  I,  x  1,4"  h. 
Weight:  7.5  ozs 
GSCPBIOO-Complete    $21.95 

PROTO-BOARD  PB-101- 
HOLDS10, 14  PIN  IC'S 

Fully  assembled  breadboard  contains  two  QT-35S  sockets 

and  four  QT-35B  bus  strips  mounted  on  metal  ground/base 

plate  with  non-marring  feet.  Excellent  for  audio  and  small 

digital  projects.  Size:  6.0"  I.  x  4.5"  w.  x  1.4"  h.  Weight:  9 

ozs. 

GSCPB101   $25.00 

PROTO-BOARD  PB-102- 
HOLDS12, 14  PIN  IC'S 

Fuliy  assembled  breadboard  contains  two  QT-47S  sock- 
ets, three  QT-47B  bus  strips  and  one  QT-35B  bus  strip  on  a 
metal  ground/base  plate  with  non-marring  feet.  Excellent 
tor  intermediate  digital  needs  Size:  7.4"  I.  x  4.5"  w,  x  1.4" 
h  Weight:  10  ozs. 
GSCPB102     $30.00 

PROTO-BOARD  PB-103- 
H0LDS24, 14  PIN  IC'S 

Fully  assembled  breadboard  contains  three  QT-59S  sock- 
ets, four  QT-59B  and  one  QT-47B  bus  strip,  four  binding 
posts  on  a  metal  ground/base  plate  with  non-marring  feet. 
Build  calculators,  interfaces,  networks,  etc.  Size:  9"  I.  x  6" 
w.  x  1.4"  h.  Weight:  21  ozs. 
GSCPB103     $50.00 

PROTO-BOARD  PB-104- 
H0LDS32, 14  PIN  IC'S 

Fully  assembled  breadboard  contains  four  QT-59S  sock- 
ets, seven  QT-59B  bus  strips  and  four  binding  posts  on  a 
metal  ground/base  plate  with  non-marring  feet.  Build  a 
CPU.  encoder,  complex  display,  etc.  Size:  9.8"  I  x  8"  w  x 
1.4"  h.  Weight:  29  ozs. 
GSCPB104     $66.00 


PROTO-BOARD  PB-203- 
HOLDS24, 14  PIN  IC'S 

Fully  assembled  breadboard  contains  built-in,  short-proof, 
fused,  5  VDC  at  1  amp,  regulated  power  supply,  in  addition 
to  three  QT-59S  sockets,  four  QT-59B  bus  strips,  one 
QT-47B  bus  strip  and  four  binding  posts.  Capacity  for  most 
digital  and  many  analog  projects.  Size:  9.75"  I.  x  6.6"  w.  x 
3.25"  h.  Weight:  5  lbs. 
GSCPB203    $105.00 

PROTO-BOARD  PB-203A 

Provides  all  the  features  of  Proto-Board  PB-203  with  addi- 
tional +  15  and  -15  VDC  at  0.5  Amp  power  supplies  with 
internally  ad|ustable  output  voltages.  Size:  Same  as 
PB-203.  Weight:  5  5  lbs 
GSCPB203A    $160.00 

PROTO-BOARD  KIT  PB-203AK 

Kit  version  of  Model  PB-203A.  Kit  contains  all  components 
of  model  PB-203A  plus  solder,  hook-up  wire  and  easy-to- 
follow  instructions.  Weight:  5.5  lbs. 
GSCPB203AK $136.00 


QUICK  TEST  SOCKETS  AND  BUS  STRIPS 

Universal  breadboarding  system  eliminates  the  soldering 
iron.  QT  sockets  provide  terminals,  each  consisting  of  five 
pre-connected  tie-points,  running  across  the  width  of  the 
socket.  QT  bus  strips  consist  of  two  rows  of  connected  tie- 
points  (in  groups  of  five)  which  run  the  length  of  the  bus 
strip.  All  QT  sockets  and  bus  strips  are  molded  of  high- 
temperature  plastic  so  that  leads  and  wires  can  be  sol- 
dered while  plugged  in.  Specially  engineered,  large- 
aperture  holes  guide  leads  into  contacts  easily  and 
effortlessly.  Contacts  are  pre-stressed,  spring-loaded, 
non-corrosive,  nickel  silver  alloy.  Average  contact  resis- 
tance is  0  5  milliohm  initially;  0.4  milliohm  after  use  Any 
diameter  lead  from  .015"  to  .032"  may  be  used.  All  QT 
units  are  .33"  thick:  all  sockets  are  1.32"  wide;  all  bus 
strips  are  .36"  wide.  Units  mount  with  4-40  flat-head 
screws  from  the  front  or  6-32  self-tapping  screws  from  the 
rear.  QT  units  feature  unique  snap/lock  mechanism  which 
mates  units  together  in  seconds  to  expand  or  contract  a 
breadboard  system  at  will. 


*m§ 

9fi=* 

QT-59S 
QT-59B 
QT-47S 
QT-47B 
QT-35S 
QT-35B 

■:: '.':«£$£* 

•ssass 

4  va  =<■.:  sk  an  «•  «,::  tat  mm 

.     „■■!,-„-„ „-,       ,„.     „ 

•::.  :••*•> :::              •••.'•.  • 

'•'-v* 

*«SK  SKJittS  KiS  IKfl  iSKJ  KM  KJR» 

w* 

*■' I:  :■■■':■                      '■       * 

•  !§ll5|pf;;;  .     • 

CSC 
No. 

GSC-QT-59S 
GSC-QT-47S 
GSC-QT-35S 

GSC-QT-59B 
GSC-QT-47B 
GSC-QT-35B 

•KBi  »JB  .RSf  KJK  KST  MJE*, 

Mtg. 
Length             Dimen.. 
Ins.                  Ins. 
QT  SOCKETS 

65                6.2x0.7 
5.3                5.0x0.7 
4.1                 3.8x0.7 
QT  BUS  STRIPS 

6.5                 6.2x0.7 
5.3                 5.0x07 
41                  3.8x0.7 

Price 

$12.95 
9.75 
7.25 

2.75 
2.50 

2.20 

EXPERIMENTOR 
BREADBOARDING  SOCKETS 

Solderless  breadboarding  sockets  accept  DIP'S,  transis- 
tors, LEDs,  resistors,  capacitors,  and  most  all  types  of 
discrete  components,  as  well  as  #22-30  solid  hookup  wire. 
An  interlocking  system  permits  boards  to  be  snapped 
together  for  optimum  configuration  for  any  circuit.  Sockets 
are  molded  of  durable,  abrasion  resistant  material  and 
feature  prestressed,  nickel-silver  contacts,  A  vinyl  plastic 
backing  prevents  shorts  when  sockets  are  mounted  on 
metallic  surfaces.  Tie-points  are  alphanumerically  identi- 
fied for  faster  wiring  and  circuit  tracing.  Sockets  can  be 
used  loose  or  fastened  to  a  mounting  surface. 
EXPERIMENTOR  EXP-300— With  0.3"  center  channel 
spacing  to  fit  the  smaller  DIP'S.  Size,  %"  d.  x  2.1"  w.  x6"  Ig. 

GSCEXP300     $12.00 

EXPERIMENTOR    EXP-350-With    0.3"    center    channel 
spacing  to  fit  the  smaller  DIP'S.  Size  W  d.  x  2.1"  w.  x3.6"  Ig. 

GSCEXP350 6.75 

EXPERIMENTOR    EXP-325-With    0.3"    center   channel 
spacing  to  fit  the  smaller  DIP'S.  Size3/s"  d.  x  2.1"  w.  x  1.66"  Ig. 

GSCEXP-325   3-50 

EXPERIMENTOR    EXP-600-With    0.6"    center   channel 
spacing  to  fit  the  larger  DIP'S.  Size3*"  d.  x2.4"  w.  x6"  Ig. 

GSCEXP600 14.75 

EXPERIMENTOR    EXP-650-With    0.6"    center   channel 
spacing  to  fit  the  larger  DIP'S.  Size  3/s"  d.  x  2.4"  w.  x  3.6"  Ig. 

GSCEXP650 8.75 

EXPERIMENTOR  EXP-4B-With  40-point  bus  strips.  Size, 

%"  d.  x1.0"  w,  X6.0"  Ig, 

GSCEXP4B 4.75 


EXPERIMENTOR 
SCRATCHBOARD™  WORKPADS 

Start  breadboarding  even  before  parts  are  assembled  Or, 
sketch  a  working  breadboard  and  save  it  for  later.  Pre- 
printed pads  of  paper  with  a  light  blue  breadboard  hole 
pattern  give  you  a  head  start. 

EXPERIMENTOR  MATCHBOARD'M 
Go  from  breadboard  to  finished  PC  board  non-stop.  Pre- 
drilled,   pre-etched,   copper-clad   PC  boards  speed   the 
work.  The  component  side  is  silk-screened  with  alpha- 
numeric index. 

EXP-300P-One  Matchboard,  Net  Each $2.70 

EXP-302— Three  50-sheet  Scratchboard  workpads. 

Net  each $3.30 

EXP-303-Two  Matchboards  and  one  EXP-300  Bread- 
board. Net  Each $16.00 

EXP-304-Two  Matchboards,  one  EXP-300  Breadboard 
and  one  Scratchboard.  Net  Each 17.00 


LOGIC  PROBES 

CSC  logic  probes  are  the  ultimate  tools  for  digital  design 
and  testing.  These  hand-held  units  provide  an  instant 
overview  of  circuit  conditions.  Simple  to  use:  just  clip 
power  leads  to  circuit's  power  supply,  set  logic  family 
switch  to  TTL/DTL  or  CMOS/HTL.  Touch  probe  to  test 
node.  Trace  logic  events  and  pulses  through  digital  cir- 
cuits. Even  stretch  and  latch  for  easy  pulse  detection- 
Instant  recognition  of  high,  low  or  invalid  levels,  open 
circuits  and  nodes.  Simple,  dual-level  detector  LED  s  tell  it 
quickly,  correctly.  HI  (Logic  "1");  LO  (Logic  "0"J.  Also 
incorporates  blinking  pulse  detector,  e.g.,  HI  and  LO  LEDs 
blink  on  or  off,  tracking  "1"  or  "0"  states  at  square  wave 
frequencies  up  to  1.5  MHz.  Pulse  LED  blinks  during  pulse 
transition.  Choice  of  three  models  to  meet  individual  re- 
quirements; budget,  project  and  speed  of  logic  circuits. 

LP-1  LOGIC  PROBE— Hand-held  logic  probe  provides 
instant  reading  of  logic  levels  for  TTL.  DTL,  HTLorCMOS. 
Input  Impedance:  100,000  Ohms.  Min.  Detectable 
Pulse:  50  ns.  Max.  Input  Signal  (Frequency):  10  MHz. 
Pulse  Detector  (LED):  High  speed  train  or  single  event. 
Pulse  Memory:  Pulse  or  level  transition  detected  and 
stored.  GSCLP1 $50.00 

LP-2  LOGIC  PROBE-Economy  version  of  Model  LP-1. 
Safer  than  a  voltmeter.  More  accurate  than  a  scope.  Input 
Impedance:  300,000  Ohms.  Min.  Detectable  Pulse:  300 
ns.  Max.  Input  Signal  (Frequency):  1.5  MHz.  Pulse  De- 
tector (LED):  High  speed  train  or  single  event.   Pulse 

Memory:  none.  GSCLP2 $28.00 

GSLP3— High  speed  logic  probe.  Captures  pulses  as 
short  as  10  ns.  Input  Impedance:  500,000  Ohms.  Mini- 
mum Detectable  Pulse:  6  ns.  Max.  Input  Signal  (Fre- 
quency): 60  MHz.  Pulse  Detector  (LED):  High  speed 
train  or  single  event.  Pulse  Memory:  Pulse  or  level  transi- 
tion detected  and  stored.  GSCLP3 $77.00 


DIGITAL  PULSER 


The  ultimate  in  speed  and  ease  of  operation.  Simply  con- 
nect clip  leads  to  positive  and  negative  power,  then  touch 
DP-1's  probe  to  a  circuit  node:  automatic  polarity  sensor 
detects  circuit's  high  or  low  condition.  Depress  the  push- 
button and  trigger  an  opposite  polarity  pulse  into  the  cir- 
cuit. Fast,  troubleshooting  includes  injecting  signals  at  key 
points  in  TTL,  DTL,  CMOS  or  other  popular  circuits.  Test 
with  single  pulse  or  100  pulses  per  second  via  built-in  dual 
control  pushbutton  button  selects  single  shot  or  continu- 
ous modes.  LED  indicator  monitors  operating  modes  by 
flashing  once  for  single  pulse  or  continuously  for  a  pulse 
train.  Completely  automatic,  probe-size  lab/field  pulse 
generator  for  any  family  of  digital  circuits.  Output:  Tn- 
state.  Polarity:  Pulse-sensing  auto-polarity.  Sync  and 
Source:  100  mA.  Pulse  Train:  100  pps.  LED  Indicator: 
Flashes  for  single  pulse;  stays  lit  for  pulse  train. 
GSCDP1    $83.00 


LOGIC  MONITOR 

Trace  signals  through  all  types  of  digital  circuits.  Unit  clips 
over  any  DIP  IC  up  to  16  pins.  Each  of  its  16  contacts 
connects  to  a  single-bit  level  detector  that  drives  a  high- 
intensity,  numbered  LED  readout  activated  when  the  ap- 
plied voltage  exceeds  a  fixed  2  V  threshold.  Logic  "1"  turns 
LED  on;  logic  "0"  keeps  LED  off.  A  power-seeking  gate 
networks  automatically  locates  supply  leads  and  feeds 
them  to  the  LM-1's  internal  circuitry.  Saves  minutes,  even 
hours  in  design  troubleshooting,  debugging  of  equipment. 
Voltage  Threshold:  2  V  ±0.2  V  Input  Impedance: 
100,000  Ohms.  Input  Voltage  Range:  4-15  V  max.  across 
any  two  or  more  inputs.  Current  Drain:  200  mA  at  10  V. 
Size:  4"  I.  x2"  w.  x1.75"  d.  whenopen.  Weight:  3  ozs. 
GSCLMI    $60.00, 


80  —  38 


BYTE  November  1980 


PLEASE  ORDER  BY  PART  NUMBER 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


LOGICAL  ANALYSIS  KITS 

The  increasing  use  and  complexity  of  digital  logic  has 
created  the  need  for  portable  and  compact  test  equipment. 
The  Logical  Analysis  Kits  contain  design/test/ 
troubleshooting  instruments  that  detect  and  locate  logic 
problems,  as  well  as  component  or  mechanical  failures, 
down  to  a  specific  IC  pin.  The  Logic  Pulser  (the  source) 
and  the  Logic  Probe  or  Logic  Monitor  (detectors)  instantly 
provide  static  and  dynamic  logic  state  analyses.  These 
portable  compact  units  save  time  in  all  phases  of  digital 
work. 

GSC  Model  LTC-1  Logical  Analysis  Kit— Complete  with 
LP-1  logic  Probe,  DP-1  Logic  Pulser,  LM-1  Logic  Monitor, 
wiring  accessories,  manuals  and  molded  case.  .  $220.00 
GSC  Model  LTC-2  Logical  Analysis  Kit— For  high-speed 
and  memory  analysis.  Same  as  Model  LTC-1,  except  sub- 
stitutes LP-3  High-Speed  Logic  Probe $250.00 


MAX100  100MHZ 
FREQUENCY  COUNTER 

Specifications. 

Frequency  Range:  20  Hz  to  100  MHz  guaranteed;  110 
MHz  typical.  Gate  Time:  1  sec.  Resolution:  1  Hz.  Accu- 
racy: ±1  count  ±  time  base  error.  Input  Impedance:  1 
Magohm  shunted  by  56pR  Coupling:  AC.  Sine  Wave 
Sensitivity:  30  mV  RMS  at  50  MHz.  Internal  Time  Base 
Frequency:  3.579545  MHz  crystal  oscillator.  Stability: 
±3  ppm  at  25°C.  Temperature  Stability:  Better  than  0.2 
ppm/°C,  0-50°C  Max.  Aging:  10  ppm/year.  Display:  Eight 
0.6"  LED  digits.  Lead-Zero  Blanking:  Decimal  point  ap- 
pears between  6th  and  7th  digit  when  input  exceeds  1 
MHz.  Overflow:  With  signals  over  99,999,999  Hz,  most 
significant  (left  hand)  digit  flashes,  allowing  readings  in 
excess  of  100  MHz.  Display  Update:  1/6  sec.  plus  1  sec. 
gate  time.  Low  Battery  Indicator:  When  battery  supply 
falls  below  6.6  VDC,  all  digits  flash  at  1  Hz.  Power  Re- 
quired: Internal,  6  "AA"  cells;  external,  110  or  220  VAC 
charger/eliminator,  auto  cigarette  lighter  adapter  or  7.2-10 
VDC  external  supply.  Battery  Charging:  12-14  hrs.  Size: 
1.75"h.  x  5.63"  w.  x  7.75"  d.  Weight:  Less  than  1.5  lbs. 
with  batteries 

CSC  Model  MAX-100  Frequency  Counter- $149.00 


MAX-100  ACCESSORIES 

GSC  100-CA1-100  VAC  Charger/eliminator   12.45 

GSC  100-IPC— Input  cable  with  clip  leads 7.45 

GSC  Model  PS-500  Prescaler-500  MHz  10:1    70.00 

GSC  100-CC— Carrying  case 12.45 


MAX-50  FREQUENCY  COUNTER 

A  mini-sized,  hand-held  frequency  counter  featuring  the 
latest  LSI  circuitry  and  advanced  engineering  provides 
accurate  frequency  measurement  and  operating  sim- 
plicity. Can  be  used  to  check  AM,  CB.  Business  Radio, 
audio,  ultrasonics  and  many  others.  Frequency  Range: 
100  Hz  to  50  MHz.  Input  Impedance:  More  than  1 
Megohm,  diode  protected.  Input  Connector:  Miniature 
phone  jack.  Input  Coupling:  AC.  Sensitivity:  30  mVfrom 
100  Hz  to  30  MHz;  100  mV  from  30  MHz  to  50  MHz. 
Maximum  Input:  200  Vp-p  to  1  kHz;  75  Vp-pfrom1  kHz  to 
10  MHz;  50  V  p-p  to  50  MHz.  Time  Base  Accuracy:  ±  3 
ppm  at  25°C.  Temperature  Stability:  Better  than  0.2 
pprnAC  from  0°  C  to  50°  C.  Display:  Six  0.1"  magnified 
LEDs  with  anti-glare  window.  Zero  Blanking:  All  zeros  to 
the  left  of  the  first  significant  digit  are  blanked;  decimal 
points  light  automatically.  Display  Update:  6  per-second. 
Power  Requirements:  One  9  V  alkaline  battery  or  battery 
eliminator.  Size:  3"  h.  x  6"  w.  x  1.5"  d.  Weight:  8  ozs. 

GSC  MAX-50— Frequency  Counter $77.00 

GSC  MMAC2  AC  Adapter-For  110  VAC 12.45 

GSC  MMA4  Mini  Antenna- 4.95 

GSC  MM-IPC  Input  Cable  Clip  Leads- 4.95 

GSC  MMC5  Carrying  Case— 7.45 

MAX-550  FREQUENCY  COUNTER 

550  MHz  VERSION  OF  ABOVE 

GSC  MAX-550-   $165.00 


6001  FREQUENCY  COUNTER 

Model  6001  bench-top  frequency  counter  is  designed  for 
applications  from  audio  to  UHF,  in  communications,  data 
processing,  process  control.  RF  and  digital  design,  multi- 
plex, etc.  Exceptional  flexibility  in  general-purpose  lab  and 
test-bench  applications.  Extremely  accurate  measure- 
ments from  50  Hz  to  650  MHz.  Inputs  (Front  Panel):  Two 
inputs  provided  through  front-panel  BNC  connectors.  "A" 
input  is  for  signal  frequencies  from  5  Hz  to  100  MHz;  1 
Megohm  +25  pF  input  impedance;  a  low-pass  filter  pro- 
vides 3  dB/octave  rolloff  at  50  KHz.  "B'  input  is  for  signal 
frequencies  from  40  to  650  MHz;  50  Ohms  input  imped- 
ance; fuse  protected.  Gate  Times:  Three  pushbutton- 
selectable  gate  times  (0.1, 1.0  and  10  sec.)  provide  resolu- 
tions of  10,  1  and  0.1  Hz  respectively;  a  front-panel  LED 
indicates  gate-open  condition.  Timebase:  A  precision  10 
MHz  crystal  oven  oscillator  (0.5  ppm,  0-50c  C)  provides 
internal  reference,  or  an  external  reference  may  be  se- 
lected by  a  rear-panel  switch.  The  oven  oscillator  output  is 
buffered  and  made  available  at  a  rear-panel  BNC  connec- 
tor. A  second  rear-panel  BNC  connector  provides  the  input 
connection  for  an  external  timebase  reference  signal.  Use 
of  an  external  timebase  other  than  10  MHz  permits  the 
6001  to  operate  in  a  scaling  (also  called  rescaling)  mode,  in 
which  the  output  is  presented  in  units  othen  than  Hz.  This 
permits  the  6001  to  be  used  as  a  directly-duplicating  digital 
display  in  a  number  of  applications,  including  transducer 
translation,  flow  monitoring,  tachometry,  etc.  Display:  8- 
digit,  7-segments,  0.43"  LED  display  features  zero  blank- 
ing. Decimal  point  indicates  frequency  in  MHz.  A  contrast 
enhancement  filter  assures  legibility,  even  in  high  ambient 
light  conditions.  Discrete  front-panel  LEDs  provide  Oven 
Ready,  Overflow  and  Gate  Open  indications.  In  addition, 
the  leftmost  digit  (of  the  8-digit  display)  flashes  to  indicate 
counter  overflow.  Controls:  Power,  Gate  Time  Select,  A/B 
Input  Select,  Low  Pass  Filter  In/Out,  Internal/External 
Time  Base  (rear-panel).  Power  Required:  105-135  VAC, 
57-63  Hz.  10  VA  max;  215-250  VAC,  50-60  Hz  version 
available.  Operating  Temperature:  0-50°  C.  Size:  3"  h.  x 
10"  w.  x  7"  d.  Weight:  3  lbs. 

Frequency  Counter— Net  Each $385.00 

Input  Fuse  Kit— Includes  two  miniature  1/10  amp  fuses 
(for  B  input  protection).  Net  per  Kit   $7.50 


5001  UNIVERSAL  COUNTER-TIMER 

Designed  for  electronic  measurements  and  display  of  fre- 
quency, period,  interval  and  counted  events.  Unique  full 
input  signal  conditioning  on  both  channels,  including  at- 
tenuators, slope  selection  and  variable  trigger  level.  Varia- 
ble delay  between  measurements.  Frequency:  Up  to  10 
MHz  in  four  ranges.  Selectable  Gate  Times:  .01,  0.1,  1.0 
or  10  seconds.  Display  indicates  frequency  (in  KHz)  at  A 
Input.  Period:  Measures  period  of  signal  at  A  input,  400 
nsec.  to  10  sec;  measures  signal  cycle  or  averages  over 
10,  100  or  1,000  cycles.  Display  indicates  time  period. 
Frequency  Ratio:  Counts  number  of  cycles  occurring  at  A 
input  (to  10  MHz)  during  one  cycle  at  B  input  (to  2  MHz),  or 
averages  over  10, 100  or  1,000  cycles  at  B  input.  Useful  for 
scaling  measurements.  Display  indicates  ratio  Fa/Fb. 
Time  Interval:  Measures  time  between  given  signal  edge 
occurring  at  A  input  (starts  measurement)  and  given  edge 
occurring  at  B  input  (ends  measurement),  from  200  nsec. 
to  10  sec.  May  average  over  10,  100  or  1,000  intervals,  or 
measure  single  interval.  Event  Count:  Counts  up  to 
99,999,999  events  at  up  to  10  MHz.  "Run"  pushbutton 
enables  counting  with  running  count  continuous  dis- 
played: when  "hold"  button  is  pushed  displayed  count  is 
frozen  while  counting  continues;  returns  to  continuous 
display  when  the  "Run"  button  is  pushed  again.  Third 
("Reset")  button  resets  count.  Delay:  Variable  control 
causes  75  msec,  to  7.5  sec.  delay  between  measurement 
cycles  to  facilitate  viewing  or  recording  of  displayed  read- 
ings. Detent  position  freezes  display  indefinitely  following 
next  measurement  cycle.  Full  Signal  Conditioning  On 
Both  Inputs:  Both  inputs  incorporate  x1/x10/x100  selec- 
table attenuator.  +/—  slope  selector  and  variable  trigger 
level  control.  Both  inputs  are  1  Megohm  at  25  pf,  DC 
coupled.  Display:  Bright,  8-digit,  7-segment,  0.43"  LED 
display,  drive  for  high  visibility.  Decimal  point  position 
gives  frequency  measurements  in  KHz,  time  measure- 
ments in  micro-seconds.  Discrete  LED  indicators  show 
overflow  (when  count  exceeds  99,999,999)  and  gate-open 
conditions.  Operating  Temperature:  0-50°  C.  Power  Re- 
quired: 105-135  VAC,  57-63  Hz,  10  VA  max.;  215-250  VAC, 
50-60  Hz  version  available.  Size:  3'  h.  x  10"  w.  x  7"  d. 
Weight:  3  lbs. 

GSC5001  Universal  Counter-Timer— Net  Each    $360.00 


2001  FUNCTION  GENERATOR 

Signal  generator  with  advanced  IC  circuitry  produces  sta- 
ble, low-distortion  sine  waves  (less  than  2%  THD),  fast, 
rise-and-fall-time  square  waves  (less  than  100  nsec), 
high-linearity  triangle  waves  (better  than  1%)  and  TTL 
square  waves  with  rise  and  fall  time  less  than  25  nsec. 
Frequency  is  accurate,  calibrated  ±5%  and  sweepable  up 
to  100:1.  A  voltage-controlled  oscillator  allows  generator's 
frequency  to  be  remotely  shifted  or  swept  by  an  AC  or  a  DC 
voltage  fed  into  the  "Sweep  In"  jacks.  A  DC  voltage  pro- 
vides a  directly  proportional  shift  in  frequency,  while  an  AC 
voltage  provides  a  frequency -modulated  sweep.  Two 
shortproof,  600-Ohm  outputs  are  adjustable  from  1  mV  to 
100  mV  p-p,  open  circuit  and  100  mV  to  10  V  p-p,  open 
circuit,  with  better  than  ±.5  dB  flatness.  Variable  DC  Offset 
control  (push-button  selectable)  provides  controlled,  vari- 
able shifting  of  output  waveform's  center  line  above  or 
below  zero.  Frequency  Range:  1  Hz  to  100  KHz  in  5 
overlapping  decade  ranges,  pushbutton  selectable,  with  a 
10:1,  50-increment  vernier  dial;  1-10  Hz.  10-100  Hz. 
100-1000  Hz.  1-10  KHz,  10-100  KHz.  Dial  Accuracy:  ±5% 
of  dial  setting;  calibrated  at  10  Hz,  100  Hz,  1  KHz  and 
10KHz.  Sine  Wave  Distortion:  Less  than  2%  THD  over 
frequency  range.  Triangle  Wave  Linearity:  Better  than  1% 
over  frequency  range.  Square  Wave  Rise  and  Fall  Times: 
Less  than  100  nanosec.  with  600  Ohms,  20  pF  termination. 
Time  Symmetry:  Less  than  ±2%;  TTL  square  wave  output 
with  rise  and  fall  times  less  than  25  nanosec.  Sweep 
Range:  Maximum  100:1;  maximum  linear  range,  10:1  at 
any  dial  setting.  Sweep  Input:  0  to  ±10  Volts.  Input  Im- 
pedance: 30K  Ohms.  Main  Output:  Sine,  square  and 
triangle  waveforms,  pushbutton  selectable;  Hi  Level. 
0.1-10  V  p-p  open  ckt,  .05-5  V  p-p  into  600  Ohms;  Lo  Level 
(-40  dB),  1-100  mV,  open  ckt.  .5-50  mV  into  600  Ohms. 
Amplitude  Control:  Variable:  greater  than  40  dB  range. 
Amplitude  Flatness:  Less  than  ±0.5  dB.  DC  Offset  Con- 
trol: Variable  ±5  V  into  open  ckt.;  pushbutton  in/out 
switch.  Max.  DC  Offset:  (AC  +  DC)  components  before 
clipping):  Hi  output,  ±  10  V  max.;  Lo  output,  ±1  V  max. 
TTL  Square  Wave  Output:  10  TTL  loads;  rise  and  fall  time, 
less  than  25  nsec.  Power  Required:  105-125  VAC,  50/60 
Hz;  6  Watts;  220-240  VAC,  50/60  Hz  optional.  Operating 
Temperature:  0°  to  50°  C  (calibrated  at  25°  C  ±5%).  Size: 
10"  w.  x  3"  h.  x  7"  d.  Weight:  2.2  lbs. 

GSC2001  Function  Generator— Net  Each $186.00 


4001  DIGITAL  PULSE  GENERATOR 

A  precision  digital  pulse  generator  that  combines  compact 
size  with  outstanding  performance.  Symmetrical  and 
asymmetrical  pulses  over  a  wide  range  of  frequencies, 
duty  cycles  and  amplitudes.  Fast  rise  and  fall  times;  less 
than  30  nsec.  Independent  pulse  width  and  spacing  con- 
trols. Continuous/manual  one-shot  operation.  External 
triggering;  DC  to  10  MHz.  Synchronous  output  gating. 
Square  wave  and  complementary  output.  In  the  Gate 
mode,  output  is  synchronized  with  leading  edge  of  input 
gate  signal;  last  output  pulse  is  always  completed,  even  in 
absence  of  gate  signal.  Frequency  Range:  0.5  Hz  to  5 
MHz.  Puise  Width  and  Spacing  Controls:  100  nsec.  to  1 
sec.  in  7  overlapping  decade  ranges.  Variable  Width  and 
Spacing  Controls:  Concentric,  single-turn  verniers  pro- 
vide continuous  adjustment  between  ranges;  pulse  spac- 
ing controls  not  active  during  Trigger.  Gate  and  One-Shot 
modes.  Duty  Cycle:  107  to  1  range,  continuously  adjust- 
able, 0.5  Hz  to  5  MHz.  Accuracy:  ±5%  of  control  settings; 
calibrated  at  min.  and  max.  of  vernier  settings.  Pulse 
Jitter:  Less  than  .1%  ±50  ps.  Run  Mode:  0.5  Hz  to  5  MHz 
frequency  selectable  through  pulse  width  and  spacing 
controls.  Trigger  Mode:  DC  to  approx.  10  MHz,  from 
external  source.  Gate  Mode:  Generator  starts  syn- 
chronously with  leading  edge  of  gate  signal.  One-Shot 
Mode:  Momentary  pushbutton  for  single-pulse  operation; 
pulse  occurs  each  time  button  is  depressed.  Square 
Wave:  Pushbutton  provides  square  wave  at  output.  Com- 
plement: COMPL  pushbutton  inverts  output  signal  without 
losing  sync  time  reference.  TRIG/GATE  Input  Require- 
ments: TTL  compatible;  sine  waves,  4  V  p-p  pulses,  2  V 
peak,  greater  than  40  nsec.  wide;  input  impedance,  ap- 
prox. 400  Ohms,  DC  coupled:  max.  input  level,  ±10  V.  VAR 
OUT:  Amplitude,  0.1-10  V  into  open  circuit,  adjustable  by 
single-turn  vernier;  rise/fall  time,  less  than  30  nsec;  im- 
pedance, constant  50  Ohms.  TTL  OUT:  Fan  out,  40  TTL 
loads;  sink,  64  mA  at  0.8  Vmax.;  rise/fall  time,  less  than  20 
nsec.  SYNC  OUT:  Amplitude,  2.4  V  min.  fan  out,  10  TTL 
loads;  sink,  64  mA  at  0.8  Vmax.;  rise/fall  time,  less  than  20 
nsec;  pulse  width,  greater  than  20  nsec;  sync  pulse  lead 
time,  greater  than  20  nsec.  Operating  Temperature:  0°  to 
50°  C  (calibrated  at  25°  C  ±5°  C).  Power  Required: 
105-125  VAC,  50/60  Hz,  6  Watts;  220-240  VAC,  50/60  Hz 
optional.  Size:  10"  w.  x  3"  h.  x  7"  d.  Weight:  2.2  lbs. 

GSC4001  Digital  Pulse  Generator-Net  Each      $235.00, 


WE  ACCEPT  VISA,  and  MASTER-CHARGE 


BYTE  November  1980 


80  —  39 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


r  •  v^ 

/l»§ 
I  feoce 

The  heart  of  the  system  is  the  patented  III  Bug  Box  which  has  30 
compartments  measuring  1"  x  .375"  x  5"  deep.  Each  Bug  Box  will 
store60eight-pin  DIPs,  30  fourteen-pin  DIPs,  30  stxteen-pin  DIPs  or  30 
other  small  components  such  as  transistors,  diodes,  resistor  net- 
works, etc.  The  transparent  cover  has  a  stairstep  design  that  allows 
the  user  to  empty  one  compartment  at  a  time,  A  numbering  system  on 
the  cover  gives  an  instant  count  of  remaining  ICs. 
CONSTRUCTION  — heavy  duty  high  impact  injection  molded  styrene 


lat  end  to 

accommodate 

Bug  Tags  for  quick 

iccurate  identlficatior 

of  Bug  Boi 

contents., 

THE  STANDARD  BUG  BOXES  ARE  BLUE 

Sh.Wt. 
III-BGX-001  Bug  Box  Single  PackJ  1.98  1II-BGX-001A  S  2.98  2oz. 
III-BGX-003  Bug  Box  3  Pack  $  5.49  III-BGX-O03A  S  6.00  6oz. 
Ill  BGX-010  Bug  Box  10  Pack  $  17.49 
lll-BGX-250  Bug  Box  250  Pack      $399.95 

"A"  Indicates  Anti-Static  Plastic  Construction 
LSI  BUG  BOX  (Big  Bug  Box) 

The  LSI  Bug  Box  is  designed  to  store  large  ICs  and  provides  separate 
compartment  storage  for  8,  10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22,  24, 28  and/or  40 
pin  IC's.  The  basic  box  is  permanently  divided  into  three  permanent 
compartments  measuring  1  x  4.15  x. 5  inches  deep.  Divider  guides  are 
molded  into  the  bottom  of  the  box  in  strategic  locations  to  allow  the 
use  of  user  inserted  dividers  (two  types  supplied)  to  further  divide  the 
box  into  storaae  for  all  of  the  standard  LSI  IC  types  as  shown  below. 


I-BGX-010A  $  26.00   2  lbs 
I-8GX-250A  $599.95  20  lbs 


Additionally, 
the  main  permanent 
compartments  ar»  ideal  for 
storage  of  leaded  components  such 
s  resislors  and  capacitors  (the  Bug  Tag 
resistor/capacitor  families  provide  three  part  values  per  tag  and 
e  that  the  basic  LSI  bug  box  is  used  for  storage 


Stores  eighteen  20  Of 
22  pin  ICs  m  separate 
compartments 


Stores  six  40  pin  IC's  in  Any  molded  groove  localic 

separate  compartments  may  be  used  for  divider  loc 


lll-BLX-001  LSI  Bug  Box  Single  PackS    2.98  lll-BLXOOIAS    3.9B 

III  BLX  003  LSI  Bug  Box  3  Pack  S    8.29  III-BLX-003A  $  10.95 

lll-BLX-010  LSI  Bug  Box  10  Pack        $26.49  III-8LX-010A  S  34.95 

lll-BLX-250  LSI  Bug  Box  250  Pack      {599.95  III-BLX-250A  $799.95 

"A*'  Indicates  Anti-Static  Plastic  Construction 

III-BDV012       2  sets  of  12  extra  LSI  Dividers  $1.49      1  oz. 


-■   ■'■ ■,. . 


THE  BUG  BOX  SYSTEM 

The  Bug  Box  System  provides  a  complete  storage/protection/identi- 
tication  and  retrieval  capability  for  integrated  circuits  or  other  small 
components  or  tools.  The  system  is  totally  modular  and  can  be  as 
small  as  a  single  Bug  Box  in  a  field  engineer's  tool  kit  or  as  large  as 
the  complete  storage/indexing  and  retrieval  for  the  thousands  of 
different  ICs  and  semiconductors  used  in  a  major  research  and 
development  laboratory. 


/ 


BBBifiaaaan      -^BB|BSii 


JUG  CAGE 

The  Bug  Cage  will  store  either  a  Bug  Box  or  a  Bug  Tray  in  any  ol  its  12 
storage  locations,  and  its  modular  design  allows  it  to  be  attached  to 
other  Bug  Cages,  either  vertically  or  horizontally,  to  build  storage 
libraries  ol  any  size.  The  ends  ot  the  Bug  Boxes  or  Bug  Trays  are 
exposed  so  that  Bug  Tag  identification  labels,  on  the  ends,  are  visible. 

Sh.Wt. 
$  10.95  2  lbs. 

$114.95  15  lbs. 


III-BGC-001 
IIIBGC-012 


Bug  Cage,  Single 
Bug  Cage,  12  Pack 

CAGE  KEEPERS 


Cage  Keepers  pin  a  column  or  Bug  Boxes  into  the  storage  compart- 
ment o(  a  Bug  Cage  lor  protection  against  casual  use  or  theft  and  for 
transportation.  Keepers  are  available  in  a  5"  model  for  a  single  cage 
and  a  10"  model  for  cages  stacked  two  high, 

Sh.Wt. 
IH-CKP-005       5"  Cage  Keepers,  Pkg,  of  2  J3.9B        3  oz 

lll-CKP-010       10"  Cage  Keepers,  Pkg,  of  2  $4.98       15  oz. 

Colors:  The  standard  Bug  Boxes  and  Cages  are  blue;  yellow,  red  and 
white  are  available  at  extra  cost 


BUG  TRAYS 

Bug  Trays  offer  storage  for  larger  components  or  tools.  Available  in 
three  styles.  Bug  Tray  Open  has  a  single  open  compartment  measur- 
ing 3.05"  wide  x  4,6"  long  x  6"  deep.  Bug  Tray  Vertical  has  five  storage 
areas  measuring  ,5"  wide  x  4  6"  long  Bug  Tray  Horizontal  has  eight 
areas  measuring  ,4"  wide  x  3.95"  long. 


lll-BTV-001  Bug  Tray  Vertical,  Single 

HI-BTV-OIO  Bug  Tray  Vertical,  10  Pack 

III-BTHO01  Bug  Tray  Horizontal.  Single 

III-BTH-OIO  Bug  Tray  Horizontal,  10  Pack 

III-BT0-001  Bug  Tray  Open,  Single 

III-BT0-010  Bug  Tray  Open,  10  Pack 

M-BTX-003  Bug  Tray  Mixer.  3  Pack 


Sh.Wt 

S  1.49 

1  oz. 

$12.96 

10  oz. 

$  1.49 

1oz. 

SI  2.98 

10  oz. 

S  1.49 

1oz, 

$12.98 

10  oz. 

$  3.98 

3oz 

BUG  RUGS 


Bug  Rugs  provide  the  necessary  static  discharge  for  CMOS  M0SFET 
devices  Bug  Rugs  are  made  of  high  carbon  content  foam  which  will 
effectively  short  all  of  the  pins  together  when  they  are  inserted  into 
the  foam  Die  cut  to  the  exact  dimensions  of  the  Bug  Box  compart- 
ments. Each  package  contains  30  Bug  Rugs  to  line  the  30  compart- 
ments of  a  Bug  Box. 


Sh.Wt. 
$  1.98  1  oz. 

$14.98  4oz 

$  1.98  1  oz, 

$14.98  4oz 


lll-BGR-030  Bug  Rug,  Pkg  of  30 

lll-SBR-300  Bug  Rug,  Pkg  of  300 

lll-BBB-036  LSI  Bug  Rug,  Pkg.  of  6 

lll-BBR-060  LSI  Bug  Rug.  Pkg.  ol  60 


BACK  PACKS 

Each  Back  Pack  label  is  imprinted  with  the  exact  internal  logic  of  a 
specific  IC  as  well  as  the  pinout  of  this  logic  to  the  pins  of  the  IC.  When 
Back  Packs  are  affixed  to  the  IC  and  the  IC  is  in  the  circuit,  the  user 
can  trace  logic  connections  without  needing  data  sheets  or  counting 
pins.  Each  Back  Pack  family  packet  contains  532  labels  and  each  is 
imprinted  with  the  logic  and  pinout  of  the  most  popular  ICs  within 
that  logic  family.  Labels  are  die-cut  and  are  self-adhesive  to  stick  to 
the  IC.  Several  blank  labels  are  included  in  each  family  packet  for 
special  labels. 


Sh.Wt, 
2oz. 
2oz. 
4oz. 


III-BPT-012 
IIIBPC0I? 
III-BPM0I2 
llf  BPU-012 


TTL  Family  Back  Packs  $  5.9B 

CMOS  Family  Back  Packs  $  6.98 

Combination  of  TTL/CMOS  Packs  $10.98 
Over  700  Back  Pack  Labels  covering  the 
most  popular  CPU's,  RAMS,  UARTS. 
Clocks.  PIA,  PROMS.  Drives, 

and  much  more  $  9.95 


3oz. 


BUG  TAGS 

Bug  Tags  are  self-adhesive  labels,  die-cut  to  the  exact  dimensions  of 
the  front  edge  of  a  Bug  Box.  They  are  pre-printed  with  the  numbers 
and  descriptions  of  the  ICs  in  the  most  popular  logic  families.  They 
are  packaged  by  logic  families  and  each  Bug  Tag  package  contains 
200  or  more  labels 

Sh.Wt. 

IIIBTT-200  TTL  Bug  Tag  Family  $  3.98  2  oz. 

III-BTC-200  CMOS  Bug  Tag  Family  $  3.98  2  oz. 

III-BTK-200  LS  Shottky  Family  S  3.98  2  oz. 

III-BTS-200  LINEAR  Bug  Tag  Family  $  3.98  2  oz. 

III-BTM-SOO  Contains  ALL  800  labels  above  $13.95  8oz 

lll-BTU-300  MICROPROCESSOR  Bug  Tags  $  5.96  3  oz 

lll-BTR-300  RESISTOR  300  labels  (900  valves)  $  5.98  3  oz 

lll-BTP-300  CAPACITOR  300  labels  (900  valves)  $5.98  3oz 

IIIBTZ-200  DIODES  &  ZENERS.  Bug  Tag  Family  $  3.98  2  oz 

lll-BTD-200  DIP  RESISTOR,  Bug  Tag  Family  $3.98  2oz 


COMPARTMENT     CONTENTS 

30 

39 

JB 

n 

16 

35 

M 

33 

H 

n 

10 

is 

18 

" 

is 

ia 

14 

.3 

i? 

11 

10 

8 

■ 

7 

* 

* 

* 

1                  'M 

Ifffl 

r-m-p 

■    iMTtflnlAriONAL    INST HUME 

NT*  HON   INC 

lll-BTF-01?  $  2.98  1  oz 
Field  Engineering  Kit  Bug 
Tags  (rear  compartment 
labels)  are  used  whenever 
more  than  one  type  of  IC  (or 
other  component)  is  to  be 
stored  in  a  single  box.  The 
Bug  Tag  FE  Kit  contains  12 
labels  designed  to  mount  on 
the  rear  cover  ot  a  Bug  Box 
for  user  written  or  typed 
identificationof  different 
contents  for  each  of  the  30 
c  o  m  p  a  rt  m  enls-  uithe^ox_ 


PROTO-PAK 

Proto-Paks  provide  the  basic  IC  set  for 
general  CMOS  and  /or  TTL  prototyping  or 
troubleshooting.  Proto-Pak  includes  30 
different  IC's.  Back  Pack  labels  for  each, 
a  Bug  Box  to  house  them  in.  and  Bug^ 
Tags  to  locate  them  easily 


lll-PPT-030  TTL  PROTO-PAK 

lll-PPC-030  CMOS  PROTO-PAK 


Sh.Wt 
$39.95  4  oz 

$49.95  4  oz 


so-40      «,,.-.»   PLEASE  ORDER  BY  PART  NUMBER 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


MICRO  PROCESSOR  BASED 
DIGITAL  CAPACITANCE  METER 

THE  STANDARD  AGAINST  WHICH  ALL 
OTHERS  WILL  BE  MEASURED 


•  Auto  Ranging 

•  Auto  Zero  Mapping 

•  Leading  zero  blanking 


III-CP3001 

$29995 

•  Microprocessor  based 
Programmed  for  field  upgrades  &  future  expansion 


•  Avg.  auto  search /measure  and  display  time  « 
0.1  sec.  for  values  to  100  ufd.  max.  =0.279  sec. 

•  Direct  measurements  of  cap  values  to  1  F. 

•  Dual  input  Cx  terminals  for  computer  derived 
measurements  of  caps  to  100  F. 

•  Dual  regulated  power  supplies 

•  Limits  entry  by  keypad  or  displayed  or  stored 
values  and  computer  derived  +  or  -  %  'ages 

•  Nested  multiple  limits  for  simultaneous  sort- 
ing of  caps  into  increasing  tolerance  groups. 

•  Arithmetic  average 

•  Statistical  mean 

•  Standard  deviation 

•  Statistical  sampling  function  to  determine 
probability  of  incoming  batch  within  limits  by 
measuring  only  a  random  sample  of  the  batch 

•  Running  mean  calculation 

•  Ignore  first  x  readings  function 

•  Display  average  of  x  readings  function 


•  Limits  comparator  (up  to  16  simultaneous 
sets  of  limits) 

•  DA  (dielectric  absorption)  Measurement 

•  Leakage  measurement 

•  Four  level  16  keypad  for  user  interface  & 
control 

•  Battery  (auto  or  marine)  or  AC  operation 

•  6502  Microprocessor  based 

•  ROM  (2K  or  more  depending  upon  options) 

•  RAM  (IK  or  more  depending  upon  options) 

•  BCD  output  for  printer  or  other  interface 

•  Single  cycle  or  continuous  operating  modes 

•  Programmed  pitch  and  duration  audio  for 
eyes  off  limits  comparison  testing  &  keyboard 
entry 

•  Limits  independent  of  range— any  limit  can 
be  from  .1  pF  to  1  F. 

•  25  turn  trimmers  (internal)  for  range  calibra- 
tion and  temp,  setting 

•  Binary  search  auto  ranging 

The  u  C-PR0BE  — offers  advanced  capacitance  testing  functions  and  statistical  capabilities  that  are  not 
available  on  any  other  capacitance  meter  at  any  price.  The  u  C-Probe  uses  the  powerful  6502  microproces- 
sor for  control  and  stored  program  functions  which  are  simply  not  feasible  with  conventional  instruments. 
Full  auto  ranging  from. 1  pF  to  1  Farad  is  standard  as  is  full  autoZERO.  This  automatically  zeroes  the  effects 
of  stray  or  lead  capacitance  — Rather  than  the  cumbersome  and  time  consuming  zero  control  tweaking 
required  with  every  other  meter  presently  sold,  the  u  C-Probe  samples  the  offset  stray  or  lead  capacitance 
for  each  of  its  internal  ranges  and  stores  the  result  in  random  access  memory.  It  then  subtracts  these  zero 
offset  values  from  each  reading  before  display  or  use  in  other  calculations.  Zero  mapping  automatically 
occurs  at  turn-on,  after  the  reset  button  is  pressed  or  it  may  be  initiated  at  any  time  by  pressing  key  1D.  An 
exclusive  audio  output  allows  "eyes  off"  sorting  of  capacitors  and  gives  audio  feedback  for  other  C-Meter 
functions  and  key  entry.  The  u  C-Probe's  .1%  accuracy  and  .1  pF  resolution  place  it  in  the  post  doctorate 
class  of  capacitance  meters. 

Size:  8<hx9x3  inches  (excluding  tilt  stand/handle).  Weight:  3%  lbs.  Made  in  U.S.A.  III-CP3001  $299.95 
QC-N0TCH— Adds  Limits  comparator  capability  to  basic  unit  —  allows  user  setting  of  up  to  16  simultaneous 
sets  of  independent  limits  — i.e.,  lower  limit  could  be  .1  pF  and  upper  limit  1  Farad  if  required.  Limits 
indication  by  LCD  displayed  "up  arrow"  and  "high"  for  over  upper  limit,  "down  arrow"  and  "low"  for  under 
lower  limit  and  bar  with  "OK"  for  "in  range."  Also  displays  L-01  through  L- 16  to  show  which  multiple  limit  the 
capacitor  fell  into  in  multiple  limits  testing.  Provides  audio  signals  to  denote  High,  Low  or  coded  signal  for 
the  exact  Limits  range  for  multiple  limits  testing. 

Size:  Internal  to  main  unit  Weight:  1  oz.  additional  weight.  Installed  when  ordered  with  basic  unit.  Plug-in 
ROM-user  installable.  III-QCN002    $149.95 

STATISTICS  option  — Provides  extensive  statistical  monitoring  in  QC  and  other  applications.  Provides 
statistical  mean,  running  average,  standard  deviation  and  ignore  first  readings  capabilities  as  well  as 
random  sample  testing  rather  than  total  batch  testing  for  incoming  acceptance/rejection  of  large  ship- 
ments of  capacitors. 

Size:  Internal  to  main  unit.  Weight:  1  oz.  additional  weight.  Installed  when  ordered  with  basic  unit.  Plug-in 
ROM-user  installable.  III-STT001     $149.95 

TEMP  OVEN  option— Houses  XTAL  time  base  and  critical  C-measurement  components  in  a  closely  controlled 
(1°C)  temperature  oven. 

Size:  Internal  to  main  unit.  Weight:  4  oz.  additional.  Installed  when  ordered  with  basic  unit.  Factory  ONLY 
installation.  HI-XVN001     $79.95 

EXTENDED  MSM  RANGE  — Extends  the  basic  measurement  functions  to  DA  and  Leakage  +  extends  upper 
range  to  several  hundred  Farad. 

Size:  Internal  to  main  unit.  Weight:  1  oz.  additional.  Installed  when  ordered  with  basic  unit.  Factory  ONLY 
installation.  III-EMR001     $99.95 

BCD  OUTPUT  —  Provides  an  output  port  from  the6502  microprocessor  with  BCD  information  and  handshak- 
ing signal  lines  to  interface  with  printers/recorders  or  other  equipment. 

Size:  Internal  to  main  unit  but  including  rear  panel  connector.  Weight:  2  oz.  additional.  Installed  when 
ordered  with  basic  unit.  Factory  ONLY  installation.  III-BCD001     $99.95 

AC  ADAPTOR  — Allows  AC  operation  of  u  C-Probe.  UL  listed  unit  operated  on  115  VAC  and  plugs  into  AC 
Adaptor  jack  on  rear  panel. 

Size:  2x2x2  inches.  Weight:  1  lb.  III-MACB00    $1 9.95 

for  your  convenience,  we  recommend  that  you  order  factory  options  with  order  for  basic  unit. 


0 


gy  HITACHI 


Hitachi  Denshl  America.  Ltd 


Single  and  dual  trace,  15  and  30  MHz.  All  four  high  sensitivity 
Hitachi  oscilloscopes  are  built  to  demanding  Hitachi  quality 
standards  and  are  backed  by  a  2-year  warranty.  They're  able  to 
measure  signals  as  low  as  1mV/ division  (with  X5  vertical  magni- 
fier). It's  a  specification  you  won't  find  on  any  other  15  or  30  MHz 
scopes.  Plus:  Z-axis  modulation,  trace  rotation,  front  panel  X-Y 
operation  for  all  four  scope  models,  and  X10  sweep  magnifica- 
tion. And,  30  MHz  oscilloscopes  offer  internal  signal  delay  lines. 
For  ease  of  operation,  functionally-related  controls  are  grouped 
into  three  blocks  on  the  color  coded  front  panel.  Now  here's  the 
clincher:  For  what  you'd  expect  to  pay  more,  you  actually  pay 
less.  Check  our  scopes  before  you  decide.  All  scopes  come 
complete  with  probes. 

Hitachi...The  measure 


of  quality. 


List  Price 
$735.00 
Our  Price 

$650.00 
HIT-V-152B 


List  Price 
$995.00 
Our  Price 

$859.00 
HIT-V-302B 


■~wg&-=*~-  ~  —  "-- 


R.4*%^  ■*»  bfc 


»  CRT 
Display  area 
Acceleration  potential 
Intensity  modulation 


•  Vertical  deflection 
Sensitivity  and 
bandwidth 


Rise  time 
Non-distorted  Max. 

amplitude 

Signal  delay  line 


Input  R  and  C 
Maximum  input 
Display  mode 
X-Y  operation 


Direct  1  M  ohm,  approx.  30pF 
oltag«  600Vp-p  or  300V(DC+AC  peak) 

CHI  ,  CH2,  DUAL,  ADD,  DIFF 

DC-500kHz,  5mV/div~5V/div 

se  difference  DC-  1 OkHz  3° 


■  Horizontal  deflection 

Sweep  mode 

TV  synchronization 

Internal 

External 
Trigger  sensitivity 


Trigger  slope 
Sweep  time 


Sweep-time  magnifie 
Max.  sweep  rate 


AUTO,  NORM,  TV  {+),  TV  (-) 
TV  sync-separator  circuit 
Over  Idiv  (V  sync-signal) 
Over  1  Vp-p  (V  sync-signal) 


•  Amplitude  calibrator 
Waveform 
Voltage 


•  Power  requirements 


•  Dimensions 


>  Ambient  operation 
temperature 


130BUB31  (5-inch,  round  shape) 
SxlOdiv  (1div=9.5mm) 
Approx,  2k V 
Over  5Vp-p 


5mV/div~5V/div  ±5%,  DC-15MHz, 

-3dB 

1mV/div~1V/div  ±6%,  DC~5MHzTyp 

-3dB  (Using  x5  amplifier) 

24ns 

More  than  4  divat  15MHz 


Frequency 


20Hz~2MHz 

2~15MHz 


0.5div 
1.5div 


200mV 
800m  V 


0.2ys/div~0.2s/div  ±5%,  19  calibrated 

steps 

10  times  (±7%) 

lOOns/d.v 


1kHz  ±10%  Typ,  Square  wave 
0.5V  ±3% 


100V  (12O/220/240V)  ±10% 
50/60Hz,40W 


.  275(W)x19O(H)x400(D)mrr 


Approx   8.5kg 


130BTB31  (5-inch,  round  shape) 
8x10div  (ldiv=9.5mm) 
Approx.  4kV 
Over  5Vp-p 


5mV/div-5V/div  -5%,  DC~30MHz, 

-3dB 

1mV/div-1V/div  ±6%,  DC~5MHz 

— 3d8  (Using  x5  amplifier)  Typ 

12ns 

More  than  4  div  at  30MHz 

Permits  viewing  leading  edge  of 

displayed  waveform 

Direct  1M  ohm,  approx.  30pF 

600Vp-p  or  300V(DC+AC  peak) 

CHI,  CH2,  DUAL,  ADD,  DIFF 

DC-500kHz,  5mV/div~5V/div 

Phase  difference  DC~10kHz  3° 


AUTO,  NORM,  TV  (+),  TV  (-) 
TV  sync-separator  circuit 
Over  1div  (V  sync-signal) 
Over  1  Vp-p  (V  sync-signal) 


Frequency  Internal 


20Hz~5MHz 
5~30MHz 


0.5div 
1.5div 


200mV 
SOOmV 


0.2us/div~0.2s/div  ±5%,  19  calibrated 

steps 

10  times  (±7%) 

lOOns/div 


1kHz  ±10%  Typ,  Square  wave 
0.5V  ±3% 


100V  (1 20/220/240 V)  -10% 
50/60Hz,40W 


Approx.  275<Wlx190(H)x400(D)mm 


Approx.  8.5kg 


AT-10AB1.5 2 


AT-10A81.5 2 


HIT-V151B  (Single  trace  version  of  HIT-V152B) 


List  Price 

$570.00 


Our  Price 
$525.00 


WE  ACCEPT  VISA,  and  MASTER-CHARGE 


BYTE  November  1980 


80  —  41 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


Hitachi...The  measure  of  quality. 


0 


HITACHI 

Hitachi  Denshi.Ltd. 


•  Dynamic  range  8  div. 

•  TV  sync-separator  circuit 

•  Built-in  signal  delay  line  (V-352) 

•  X-Y  operation 

•  Sweep-time  magnifier  (10  times) 

•  Trace  rotation  system 

•  Fine-adjusting,  click-positioning 
function 

•  Economically  priced  20MHz  dual  trace 
oscilloscope 

•  Square  CRT  with  internal  graticule 
(illuminated  scale) 

•  High-accuracy  voltage  axis  and  time 
axis  set  at  ±3%  (certified  at  10°  to  35  C) 

•  High-sensitivity  1mV/div. 

•  Low  drift 

•  2  Year  Warranty 


HIT-V202 

20MHz  DUAL  TRACE 


SPECIFICATIONS: 


LIST  PRICE:  $850.00 
OUR  PRICE:  $798.00 


HIT-V352 

35MHz  DUAL  TRACE  WITH  DELAY 

LIST  PRICE:  $1150.00 
OUR  PRICE:  $998.00 


•  CRT 

Display  area 
Acceleration  potential 
Intensity  modulation 


•  Vertical  deflection 
Sensitivity 


Bandwidth 

Rise  time 
Signal  delay  line 
Max.  input  voltage 
Input  connection 
Input  impedance 
Operating  modes 
X-Y  operation 
Sensitivity 
Phase  difference 
X  bandwidth 
Dynamic  range 


»  Horizontal  deflection 
Sweep  mode 
Sync  signals 
Sync  connection 
TV  synchronization 

Internal 

External 
Trigger  sensitivity 


AUTO  low  bandwidth 
Trigger  polarity 
External  sync  input 


Sweep  time 


Sweep  time  magnifier 
Max.  sweep  rate 


•  Amplitude  calibrator 
Waveform 
Voltage 


•  Power  requirements 


i  Weight 


•  Temperature 
Ambient  operation  temperature 


140BMB31R  (5.5-inch  square  with  internal  graticule, 

illuminated  scale} 

8x10div  <1div  =  9.4mm) 

Approx.  2kV 

Voltage:  5Vp-p  or  more 

Effective  band-width:  DC  to  2MHz 

Input  impedance:  47kJ2  (type) 

Max.  input  voltage  300V     (DC  +  AC  peak) 


5mV/div  to  5V/div  +3%,  9-step  changeover 

(When  using  x5  amplifier)  1  mV/div  to  1  V/div  ±5% 

Continuously  variable  when  using  x2.5  amplifier  with 

fine  adjustment 

(provided  with  click-positioning  function) 

DC  to  20MHz,  -3dB  (at  8div) 

(When  using  x5  amplifier)  DC  to  7MHz,  -3dB  (at  8div) 

1  7.5ns,  (for  x5)  50ns 


500Vp-p  or  300V  (DC  +  AC  peak,  at  1  kHz) 

AG,  GND,  DC 

Direct  1  M  ohm,  approx.  30pF 

CHI,  CH2,  DUAL,  ADD,  DIFF 

CH1:  X  axis,  CH2:  Y  axis 

5mV/div  to  5V/div  (when  using  x5  amplifier:  ImV/div) 

DC  to  50kHz  within  3° 

DC  to  500kHz,  -3dB 

8div  or  more ____^__„ 


AUTO,  NORM,  TV  (  +  ),  TV  (- 

CH1,  CH2,  LINE,  EXT 

AC 

TV  sync-separator  circuit 

1  div  or  more  (V  sync-signal) 

1  Vp-p  or  more  (V  sync-signal) 


Frequency 

Internal 

External 

20Hz  to  2MHz 
2  to  20MHz 

0.5div 
1.5div 

200  mV 
800  mV 

20Hz 

Input  impedance:  approx.  1M  ohm,  30pF  or  less 

Max.  input  voltage:  300V  (DC  +  AC  peak,  at  1  kHz) 

0.2/is/div  to  0.2s/div  +3%,  19  calibrated  steps 

Continuously  variable  when  using  x2.5  amplifier  with 

fine  adjustment 

(provided  with  click-positioning  function) 

10  times  (»5%) 

lOOns/div  (20ns/div  or  50ns/div,  not  calibrated) 

Linearity:  within  3%  or  +5%  when  using  x  10 


Ambient  temperature  for  guaranteeing 
specifications 


•  Accessories 


Approx.  1  kHz  ±10%  (typ) 
0.5V  ±3% 

square  wave 

100/1  20/220/240  V 
50  to  60Hz,  approx. 

±10% 
45W 

Approx.  8.5kg 

0  to+40°C 

+10to+35°C 

20,000  hours  (target 

value! 

Probe  AT-10AF1.5  (10:1/1:1) 

Power  cable 

Operation  manual 


140DFB31  (5.5-inch  square  with  internal  graticule, 

illuminated  scale) 

8x10div  (1div=9.4mm) 

Approx.  5.2 kV 

Voltage:  5Vp-p  or  more 

Effective  band-width:  DC  to  2MHz 

Input  impedance:  47  kn  (typ) 

Max.  input  voltage:  300V   (DC  +  AC  peak) 


5mV/div  to  5V/div  ±3%,  9-step  changeover 

(When  using  x5  amplifier)  1  mV/div  to  1  V/div  +5% 

Continuously  variable  when  using  x2.5  amplifier  with 

fine  adjustment 

(provided  with  click-positioning  function) 

DC  to  35MHz,  -3dB  (at  8div) 

(When  using  x5  amplifier)   DC  to  7MHz,  -3dB  (at  8div) 

10ns,  (for  x5)  50ns 

Permits  viewing  leading  edge  of  displayed  waveform 

500Vp-p  or  300V  (DC  +  AC  peak,  at  1  kHz) 

AG,  GND,  DC 

Direct  1  M  ohm,  approx.  30pF 

CHI,  CH2,  DUAL,  ADD,  DIFF 

CH1:  X  axis,  CH2:  Y  axis 

5mV/div  to  5V/div  (when  using  x5  amplifier:  1  mV/div) 

DC  to  50kHz  within  3" 

DC  to  500kHz, -3dB 

8div  or  more 


AUTO,  NORM,  TV  (+),  TV  (-) 

CH1,  CH2,  LINE,  EXT 

AC 

TV  sync-separator  circuit 

1  div  or  more  (V  sync-signal) 

1  Vp-p  or  more  (V  sync-signal) 


Frequency 

Internal 

External 

20Hz  to  5MHz 
5  to  35MHz 

0.5div 
1.5div 

200  mV 
800  mV 

20Hz 

Input  impedance:  approx.  1  M  ohm,  30pF  or  less 

Max.  input  voltage:  300V  (DC  +  AC  peak,  at  1  kHz) 

0.2Ms/div  to  0.2s/div  +3%,  19  calibrated  steps 

Continuously  variable  when  using  x2.5  amplifier  with 

fine  adjustment 

(provided  with  click-positioning  function) 

10  times  (±5%) 

20ns/div 

Linearity:  within  3%  or  +5%  when  using  x10 


Approx.  1  kHz  ±10%  (typ),  square  wave 
0.5V  ±3% 

100/1  20/220/240V 
50  to  60Hz,  approx. 

±10% 
45W 

Approx.  8.5kg 

0  to  +40°C 

+10to+35°C 

20,000  hours  (target 

value) 

Probe  AT-10AF1.5  (10:1/1:1) 2 

Power  cable 1 

Operation  manual 1 


80  —  42 


BYTE  November  1980 


WE  ACCEPT  VISA,  and  MASTER-CHARGE 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


<f&  HITACHI 

Xtpr   Hitachi  Denshi,  Ltd. 

V-550B  50  MHz  Dual  Trace 
Delayed  Sweep  Oscilloscope 

Until  now,  if  you  wanted  a  50  MHz  dual 
trace  oscilloscope  of  uncompromising 
quality,  there  was  only  one  choice.  Now 
there's  a  second. . .  an  outstanding  new 
delayed  sweep  scope  with  an  estab- 
lished name-the  Hitachi  V-550B. 

The  V-550B  offers  all  the  capabilities 
you  expect  from  a  lab  grade  oscillo- 
scope-trigger view,  a  bright  6"  square 
CRT,  and  a  maximum  sweep  rate  of  5 
ns/div-plus  a  few  features  you  might 
not  expect,  such  as  1  mV/div.  sensitivity 
(10  MHz),  automatic  focus  correction, 
and  a  built-in  TV  sync  separator  circuit. 

The  cost?  Remarkably  reasonable, 
especially  when  you  compare  it  to  the 
other  leading  50  MHz  scope.  It's  a  price 
breakthrough  made  possible  by  using 
up-to-date  production  techniques  and 
a  design  backed  by  over  20  years  of 
oscilloscope  experience. 


The  Hitachi  Alternative 


A  REMARKABLE  VALUE  THE 
HIT-V550B  AT  $1745-00  (Probes  Included) 


SHPG.  WT.  29  LBS. 


A  New  C.R.T.  Development 

The  large  square  C.R.T.  of  V-550B  is  most  advantageous  not  only 
for  dual  trace  operations,  but  also  for  third  channel  display  of  trigger- 
ing signals.  The  diameter  of  the  screen  is  6"  and  the  tube  has  an 
internal  graticule.  Care  has  been  given  to  such  details  as  graticule 
divisions  in  red  which  provide  greater  contrast  in  photography  of 
data. 

In  the  vertical  axis,  supplementary  graticule  markings  of  0, 10. 90, 
and  100%  are  provided,  which  facilitates  reading  of  rise  time  of  pulse 
waves.  Since  these  supplementary  markings  are  in  dots  they  do  not 
interfere  with  ordinary  measurements. 

The  use  of  an  improved  phosphor  makes  the  new  V-550B 10  kV  tube 
as  bright  as  old  type  15  kV  C.R.T.'s. 

High  Sensitivity:  I  mV/dlv.  (1(1  MHz) 

Sensitivity  of  1  mV/div  is  useful  for  research  and  development  in 
such  applications  as  medical  and  biological  experiments  where  sig- 
nals are  weak. 


Automatic  Focus  Feature  Eliminates  Lag. 

Loss  of  focus  tends  to  occur  when  brightness  or  sweep  range  is 
altered.  Automatic  focus  solves  this  problem,  eliminating  the  neces- 
sity for  adjustment  each  time. 

Trace  rotation  system  (or  easily  adjusting  bright-line  inclination  caused  by 
terrestrial  magnetism. 

When  bright  lines  are  inclined  by  the  influence  of  terrestrial  mag- 
netism, this  rotation  system  promptly  compensates  and  corrects 
lines  to  the  proper  locations,  rendering  accurate  observation  con- 
stantly feasible. 

Third  Channel  Display  (Trigger  View) 

In  addition  to  CH1  and  CH2,  CH3  can  be  observed.  Internal  trig- 
gered signals  and  externa)  triggered  signals  can  be  displayed  as  a 
third  trace.  This  feature  allows  time  comparisons  to  be  made 
between  external  trigger  signals  and  displayed  waveforms. 

X-Y  Operation  Convenient  for  Observation  ol  Two  Types  of  Waves. 


Delayed  sweep  permits  1,000  X  Magnification 

One  of  the  qualifications  for  high  performance  oscilloscopes  is 
that  they  be  equipped  with  delayed  sweep.  Needless  to  say.  the 
V-550B  possesses  delayed  sweep,  which  permits  magnification  of 
any  desired  portion  of  the  wave  up  to  a  thousand  times. 

Variable  Hold-off  Circuitry  Facilitates  Pulse  Measurement 

The  trigger  hold-off  circuitry  is  a  variable  hold-off  circuitry  spe- 
cially developed  for  the  V-550B,  permitting  stable  triggering  on  com- 
plex waveforms. 

Single  Sweep 

The  single  sweep  mechanism  is  indispensable  for  studying  signals 
produced  in  research  involving  vibration,  impact,  explosion,  and 
voice. 

10  X  Sweep  Magnification  Facilitates  Precision  Measurement 

Delayed  Sweep  Jitter  Held  at  Below  1/20,000 


SPECIFICATIONS 

C.R.T. 

Type 

Hitachi  150BCB31  rectangular  mesh  type  tube  with  10kV  accel- 
eration potential  and  metal  backed  phosphor. 

Screen  Type 

P31  (GH)  phosphor  standard. 

Useful  Screen  Area 

8x  10div{1  div  =  1  cm). 

Graticule 

Internal  graticule  with  centimeter  divisions  and  2mm  subdivi- 
sions along  the  central  axis  10%  and  90%  lines  are  indicated. 
Illumination  continuously  variable. 

Z-axis  Input 

DC-coupled  positive-going  signal  decreases  intensity:  5  Vp-p 
signal  causes  noticeable  modulation  at  normal  intensity:  DC  to 
3.5  MHz. 

VERTICAL  DEFLECTION  (2  Identical  Channels) 

Bandwidth  and  Rise  Time 

DC  to  at  least  50  MHz  and  rise  time  7,0  ns  or  less.  DC  to  at 
least  10  MHz  and  rise  time  36  ns  or  less  as  magnifier 
extends.  Lower— 3dB  point,  AC  coupling  10  HZ  or  less.  10x 
probe:  1  Hz  or  less. 

Dellection  Factor 

5mV /div  to  5V /div  in  10  calibrated  steps,  1-2-5 sequence.  Uncal- 
ibrated  continuous  control  between  steps  1:<2,5,  x5  magnifier 
extends  min.  deflection  rate  to  1mv7div. 

Accuracy 

±3%(+10to+35°C) 

±5%  (0  to  +50°C) 

Additional  error  for  magnifier  ±2% 

Display  Modes 

CH1,  CH2  (normal  or  invert)  Alternate,  chopped  (250kHz  rate), 
Added. 

Input  Impedance 

1M  ohm  ±2%  in  parallel  with  30pF  approx. 

Maximum  Input  Voltage 

250V  (DC  +  peak  AC)  or  500Vp-p  AC  at  1Khz  or  less. 

Delay  Line 

Permits  viewing  leading  edge  of  displayed  waveform. 

3rd  Channel  Display  (A  Trigger  View) 

Display  simultaneously  channel  1,  channel  2,  and  external 
trigger  signal.  The  deflection  factor  is  approx.  200mv7div. 


TRIGGERING  A  AND  B 
A  Trigger  Modes 

Automatic,  Normal,  Single  sweep,  TV-V,  TV-H. 
A  Trigger  Hold-off 

Adjustable  control  permits  a  stable  presentation  of  repetitive 

complex  waveform, 
A  Trigger  Source 

Internal  (Ch1.  Ch2),  Line,  External. 
A  Trigger  Slope 

+  or- 
A  Trigger  Sensitivity 


DC  to  10MHz 

DC  to  50MHz 

Internal 

0.5div 

1.5div 

External 

150mV 

500mV 

A  Trigger  Coupling 

AC;  30Hz  to  full  bandwidth 
HFRej:30Hzto4kHz 

LFRej:  4kHz  to  50MHz 

DC:  0  to  full  bandwidth 
A  External  Trigger  Input  Impedance 

1M  ohm  ±20%  in  parallel  with  30pF  approx. 
Maximum  Input  Voltage 

250V  (DC  +  peak  AC) 

500Vp-pACat  1kHz  or  less 
B  Trigger  Modes  and  Source 

Automatic,  Normal  (Internal,  External) 
B  Trigger  Slope 

+  or- 
Trlgger  Coupling 

AC  only;  30Hz  to  full  bandwidth 
HORIZONTAL  DEFLECTION 
Time  Base  A 

50ns/div  to  0.5s/div  in  22  calibrated  steps,  1-2-5 sequence. 

Uncalibrated  continuous  control  between  steps  1:<2.5 

10x  mag  extends  fastest  sweep  rate  to  5ns/div. 
Time  Base  B 

50ns/divto50ms/div  in  19  calibrated  steps  1-2-5 sequence.  10x 

mag  extends  fastest  sweep  rate  to  5ns/div. 


Accuracy 

±3%(+10to+35°C) 

±5%  (0  to  +50°C) 

Additional  error  for  magnifier  ±2%. 
Horizontal  Display  Modes 

A  only,  A  intensified,  B  delayed. 
Calibrated  Sweep  Delay 

Continuous  calibrated  control  between  0.5  and  10x  time  base  A 

setting. 
X-Y  OPERATION  (CHI:  Horiz.  Ch2;  Vert) 
Dellection  Factor 

Same  as  vertical  deflection 
Accuracv 

Y:  ±3%  (+10  to  +35°C),  ±5%  (0  to  +50°C) 

X:  ±5%  (+10  to  +35°C),  ±7%  (0  to  +50°C) 

Additional  error  tor  CH1  and  CH2  magnifier  ±2% 
Bandwidth 

DC  to  at  least  500kHz 
Phase  Error 

3°  or  less  from  DC  to  50kHz 
CALIBRATOR 

0.5v  ±1%  Frequency  1kHz  +5%  square  wave 
POWER 
Line  Voltage  and  Frequencies 

10BVACto132VAC,  49Hzto61Hz, 

114V  AC  to  120V  AC,  49Hz  to  400Hz 
POWER  CONSUMPTION 

45W  or  less  at  normal  line  voltage 
DIMENSION  AND  WEIGHT 

310(W)x  180(H)  x  410(D)  mm 

(12.2x7.1  x  16.1  In.) 

9.3kg  (20.5  Lb.) 
AMBIENT  TEMPERATURES 

Rated  range  of  use:  +10  to  +35°C 

Limits  of  operation:  0  to  +50°C 

Storage  and  transport:  -20  to  +70°C 
M.T.B.F. 

20.000  hours  for  target  value 
ACCESSORIES  SUPPLIED 

Two  AT-10AD1.5  probes,  2-A  fuse,  protective  cover,  operation 

manual. 


ALSO  AVAILABLE:  HIT-V100  100  MHz  DUAL  TRACE  OSCILLOSCOPE. 

CALL  FOR  PRICING 


ORDER  TOLL  FREE (800)  4235633 


BYTE  November  1980 


80  —  43 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


Three  good  reasons  to  buy  a 
handheld  DMM  from  Fluke. 


MODEL  D800A: 

THE  TROUBLESHOOTER 


MODEL  802A: 
THE  ANALYST 


•  Six  functions 

dc  voltage 
ac  voltage 
dc  current 
ac  current 
resistance 
diode  test 

■  31/2-digit  resolution 

•  0.25%  basic  dc  accuracy 

•  LCD  display 

•  Overload  protection 

•  Safety-designed 
test  leads 

■  Full  year  parts 

&  labor  warranty 

FLU-D800A 


9Wf& 


r;:ir^i 


•  Seven  functions 

dc  voltage 
ac  voltage 
dc  current 
ac  current 
resistance 
diode  test 
conductance  (1/R) 

•  31/2-digit  resolution 

•  0.1%  basic  dc  accuracy 

•  Overload  protection 

•  Safety-designed 
test  leads 

•  Two  year  parts 
&  labor  warranty 


l^lfglf^ 


■■■■■<■■  .■■.■■■..■■      ■ .  .,■   ■    ■■ 


MODEL  D804A: 
THE  INVESTIGATOR 


•  Nine  functions 

dc  voltage 
ac  voltage 
dc  current 
ac  current 
resistance 
diode  test 
conductance  (1/R) 
logic  level  and 

continuity  detect 
temperature  (K-type 

thermocouple) 

•  Peak  hold  on  voltage 
and  current  functions 

•  Selectable  audible 
indicator  for  continuity 
or  level  detection 

•  31/2-digit  resolution 

•  0.1%  basic  accuracy 

•  LCD  display 

•  Overload  protection 

•  Safety  designed 
test  leads 

•  Full  year  parts 

&  labor  warranty 


$115.00     FLU-D802A 


$179.00     FLU-D804A 


$219.00 


More  hard  facts  on  Fluke  handheld  DMM*s: 
One-year  specifications. 


Accuracies  are  ±  (%  of  reading  - 
AC  Current 


no.  of  digits)  1  year,  18°C  to  28°C  except  as  noted. 
D8Q4A  D802A  D800A 


Ranges 
Resolution 

Accuracy 

2  mA  range 
(45Hz-450Hz) 

20-2000  mA  ranges 
(45Hz-450Hz) 
(450Hz-1kHz) 


2  mA,  20  mA,  200  mA,  2000  mA 


0,05%  of  range  (1  ^Aon  2  mA  range) 


3%  of  rdg 

+  2  digits 
1.5%  of  rdg 

+  2  digits 
1.5%  of  rdg 

+  2  digits 


2%  of  rdg 

+  2  digits 
1.5%  of  rdg 

+  2  digits 
1.5%  of  rdg 

+  2  digits 


2%  of  rdg 
+  3  digits 
2%  of  rdg 
+  3  digits 
Not  Specified 


Conductance* 


D804A 


Ranges 

Equivalent  Resistance 
Range 

Resolution 
Accuracy 


Overload  Protection 


200  nS 

2mS,  200  nS 

5Mnto  10,000  Mn 

500nto1  Mn(2mS), 

5Mf!to10,000Mfl 

(200  ns) 

0.05%  of  range  (10- 

"Son  200  nS  range) 

200  nS:  2%  of  rdg 
+  10  digits 

200  nS:  2%  of  rdg 

+  10  digits 

2  mS:  0.2%  of  rdg 

+  1  digit 

500V  dc  or  rmson  all  ranges 


Temperature  (D804A  Only,  requires  thermocouple  accessory) 


Temperature  Sensor 

Range 

Resolution 

Accuracy 


Connection 


Overload  Protection 


K-type  Thermocouple  (Chromel-Alumel).  See 
accessories 

-20°Cto+1265°C 

rc 

±3°C±1  digit,  -20°to+300°C;3%of  rdg,  +300°Cto 
+  1265°C  (±2°±1  digit,  0°to  +  80°C  typical)  Accuracy 
includes  NBS  conformity,  calibration  stability,  zero  and 
reference  junction  but  not  thermocouple  errors. 

Dual  banana  isothermal  termination  provided  with  Fluke 
thermocouple  accessories.  Use  Y8104  termination 
accessory  for  any  K-type  thermocouple. 


2A  fused  up  to  250V 


Continuity  (804A  Only)  Use  for  Passive  Current  Testing 


Ranges 
Indication 


Response  Time 
(2  kn  range) 


Overload  Protection 


All  Resistance  and  Con'ductance  ranges 

Open  Circuit:  "-*"  Display 

Continuity:  "  ♦ "  Display  +  2  kHz  audio  tone  (selectable) 

50  /xs  (Minimum  duration  of  continuity  or  open  to  toggle 
display  or  audio  tone.  Pulse  stretcher  holds  display  and 
tone  for  approx.  100  ms.) 

500V  dc  or  rms  all  ranges 


Level  Detector  (804A0nly)  Use  for  Active  Circuit  Testing 


Reference  Level 
Display 


0.8V  dc  nominal 


"♦"  for  inputs  greaterthan  reference 

"■»"  for  inputs  less  than  reference 

"*"for  inputs  toggling  above  and  below  reference 

Audio  tone  coincident  with  "■*-"  (switch  selectable) 


Pulse  Response 
(200  kn  range) 

Input  Impedance 
Overload  Protection 


50  ^s  (Minimum  width  of  0  to  +3V  pulse  required  to 
toggle  display.  Pulse  stretcher  holds  display  for  approx. 
100  ms  when  short  pulses  are  detected.) 


>100kn,  <100pF 


500V  dc  or  rms 


Accuracies  are  ±  (%  of  reading 
DC  Voltage 


no.  of  digits)  1  year,  18°Cto  28°C  except  as  noted 
D804A  D802A  D800A 


Ranges 
Resolution 
Accuracy  (all  ranges) 

Input  Impedance 
Normal  Mode  Rejection 
Common  Mode  Rejection 


200mV,2V,  20V,  200V,  1000V 


100MVon200mVrange 


0.1%  rdg 
+  1  digit 


0.1%  rdg 
+  1  digit 


0.25%  rdg 
+  1  digit 


10  Mn  on  all  ranges 


>60dBat50and60Hz 


>100  dB  at  dc,  50,  60  Hz;  1  kn  unbalance 


AC  Voltage 


D804A 


D802A 


D800A 


Ranges 

Resolution 

Accuracy 


200  mV,  2V,  20V,  200V,  750V 


100nVon200mVrange 


45  Hz  to  1  kHz:  0.75%  of  rdg  +2 
digits  on  all  ranges  except  750V 
(1%  of  rdg  +  2  digits) 

1  kHz  to  2  kHz:  1.5%  of  rdg  +  3 
digits  on  all  ranges  except 
750V  (not  specified) 

2  kHz  to  5  kHz:  5%  of  rdg  +  5  digits 
on  all  ranges  except  200V  and 
750V  (not  specified) 


45  Hz  to  450  Hz: 
1%  of  rdg  +  3 
digits  on  all 
ranges 


Input  Impedance 


10  MO,  <100pFon  all  ranges 


Resistance 


D804A 


D802A 


D800A 


Ranges 

Resolution 

Accuracy 
200 n range 

2  kn  thru  200  Ml 

ranges 
2000  kn  range 

20  Mn  range 

Open  Circuit  Voltage 

Diode  Test 
(Hi-LoOhms) 


20on,  2  kn,  20  kn,  2  Mn,  20Mn 


0.05%  of  range  (0.mon200n  range) 


0.2%  of  rdg 
+  3  digits 

0.1%  of  rdg 
+  1  digit 

0.15%  of  rdg 
+  1  digit 
2%  ot  rdg 
+  1  digit 


0.2%  of  rdg 
+  3  digits 

0.1%  of  rdg 
+  1  digit 

0,1%  of  rdg 
+  1  digit 
2%  of  rdg 
+  1  digit 


0.3%  of  rdg 
+  3  digits 

0.2%  of  rdg 
+  1  digit 

0.2%  of  rdg 
+  1  digit 
2%  of  rdg 
+  1  digit 


<1.5Von  all  ranges  except  2  kn  range  <3.5V 

2  kn,  200  kn,  and  20  Mn  ranges  supply  enough  voltage 
to  turn  on  junctions  allowing  a  "Diode  Test"  200n, 
20  Kn,  and  2000  kn  ranges  can  be  made  in-circuit 
measurements  without  turning  on  silicon  junctions 


DC  Current 

O804A                      D802A                      D800A 

Ranges 

2  mA,  20  mA,  200  mA,  2000  mA 

Resolution 

0.05%  of  range  (1  p.A  on  2  mA  range) 

Accuracy 

0.75%  of  rdg  +  1  digit  all  ranges 

80  —  44 


BYTE  November  1980 


WE  ACCEPT  VISA,  and  MASTER-CHARGE 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


LOW  COST  DMM'S 


LCD  DISPLAY 

Large,  high  contrast,  2000  count,  liquid  crystal  display 
digits  can  be  seen  from  a  distance  and  in  practically  any 
light.  An  overrange  condition  is  indicated  when  only  the 
most  significant  digit  is  displayed. 


TRUE  RMS,  50  kHz  AND  HIGHER 

True  RMS  assures  accurate  measurements  of  nonsinusoi- 
dal  waveforms.  You  can  notice  the  difference  on  even  the 
average  power  line.  Any  measurement  of  ac  voltage  and 
current  may  apply  to  waveforms  having  a  crest  factor  of  1 :1 
(squarewaves)  to  1.4:1  (sinewaves)  to  3:1  (peaked  wave- 
forms). A  typical  3dB  bandwidth  to  200  kHz  includes  the 
most  significant  harmonics  of  fundamental  frequencies  to 
50  kHz.  A  Fluke-manufactured  hybrid  rms  converter  pro- 
vides wideband,  low  noise,  accurate  measurements  at  low 
cost. 


CONDUCTANCE  MEASUREMENTS 

This  unique  and  highly  useful  function  makes  possible 
resistance  measurements  far  beyond  the  capacity  of  ordi- 
nary multimeters.  Conductance  is  theinverseofohms(lii) 
and  is  expressed  in  Siemens,  formerly  mhos.  Simple  con- 
version of  direct-reading  conductance  to  ohms  yields  re- 
sistance values  to  10,000  Mil  without  special  shielding  to 
minimize  noise.  It  is  a  must  for  verifying  resistance  values 
in  high  voltage  dividers,  checking  leakage  of  capacitors, 
pcb's,  cables,  and  insulators,  and  for  general  use  above  20 
Mfi.  You  may  measure  transistor  beta  and  leakage  directly 
using  a  simple  test  adapter— more  useful  and  informative 
than  simple  junction  tests.  Ask  for  application  bulletin 
AB-44  for  more  details. 


ONE  YEAR  ACCURACY  SPECIFICATIONS 

A  very  stable  semiconductor  Band-Gap  reference  element 
lets  us  guarantee  accuracy  specifications  for  one  year. 
That  means  you  can  depend  on  accuracy  for  long  periods 
of  time.  But  it  also  means  a  great  savings  in  calibration 
expense  over  the  life  of  the  DMM.  There  are  only  five 
calibration  adjustments.  Some  will  probably  never  need  to 
be  changed. 


SPECIFICATIONS 
DC  VOLTAGE 

Ranges:  ±200mV,  ±2V,  ±20V,  ±200V,  ±1000V. 
Resolution:  100 ^.V  on  lowest  range,  Won  1000V range. 
Accuracy:  +{0.1%  of  reading  +  1  digit)  on  all  ranges. 
Overload  Protection:  To  1000V  dc  or  peak  ac  on  any 
range,  continuous. 
Imput  Impedance:  10MU  on  all  ranges. 


AC  VOLTAGE  (TRUE  RMS) 

Ranges:  200mV,  2V,  200V,  750V. 

Resolution:  100  ^V  on  lowest  range,  1 V  on  750V  range. 

Accuracy:  ±(%  of  reading  +  no.  of  digits). 

Range  45  Hz    1kHz   10  kHz    20  Khz    50kHz    200  kHz 

200mv 

|JV         (0.5%+2)    (1.0%  +  2)      (5%  +  3) 

200V 

750V  (0.5%  +  2)  Not  specified 

*  Extended  Frequency  Response  is  typically  ±3dB  at  200 
kHz.  Above  accuracy  applies  for  5%  to  100%  of  voltage 
range. 

Overload  Protection:  To  750V  rms,  1000V  peak,  not  to 
exceed  10'  volt-Hertz  product,  continuous  (except  10 
seconds  maximum  on  200mV  and  2V  ranges). 
Input  Impedance:  10Mn  in  parallel  with  <  100  pF. 
Resistance: 

Reso'  Arrurarv  FuM  Scale  Max  Test 

lutlon        "cc"""=y  Voltage     Current 


Range 


200!1 

2«r 

20k!l 
200k!f 


"+.O. 

<0.25V 

1.30  mA 

m 

±(0.2%  of  rdg+1 

xl.OOV 

1.30  mA 

digit) 

<0.25V 

10.0MA 

00!1 

>  1.00V 

35.0MA 

2000k!!  1kfl    „..,.,,,,,       <0.25V      O.IOiiA 

20MS!'  10kf!   ±(0.5%  of  rdg+1 

>1.5V        0.35^A 


digit) 


•Diode  lest  ranges. 

V 


FOR  BENCH 
OR  FIELD 

IFLUKEI 


•  3!2  LCD  display 

•  Auto  zero,  auto  polarity 

•  AC  or  battery  operated  models 

•  One  year  warranty 

•  Many  other  features  not  found  in  other  DMM'S! 

FLU-D810 $249.00 

FLU-D811  with  Ni  Cad  batteries $289.00 

LOW  POWER  OHMS  AND  DIODE  TEST 

Three  resistance  ranges  are  identified  as  diode  test 
ranges  (-*+).  They  supply  enough  voltage  to  turn  on  a 
silicon  junction  so  diode  and  transistor  junctions  can  be 
tested.  The  remaining  ranges  (low  power  ohms)  supply 
only  enough  voltage  to  measure  the  resistance  of  in- 
circuit  components  other  than  diodes  and  transistors. 

BATTERY  OPTION  (-01) 

Rechargeable  size  "C"  Ni  Cad  batteries  are  installed 
inside  the  8010A  or  8012A  with  this  option.  They  are 
continually  kept  charged  when  the  power  cord  is  plugged 
in  and  completely  recharged  in  approximately  14  hours. 
The  batteries  typically  provide  up  to  40  hours  of  continu- 
ous operation  without  recharging  when  measuring  dc 
voltage,  up  to  15  hours  for  other  measurement  functions. 
The  letters  "BT"  appear  in  the  upper  left  hand  corner  of 
the  display  about  a  half  hour  before  the  batteries  require 
recharging. 

SAFETY  AND  PROTECTION 

Recessed  banana  jacks  reduce  shock  hazard  to  an  oper- 
ator. When  measuring  resistance  or  conductance,  up  to 
300  volts  may  be  applied  with  no  instrument  damage. 
Transients  to  6kV  cause  no  damage  when  measuring 
voltage.  The  standard  current  input  is  protected  against 
shorts  with  a  2A,  250V  fuse  in  series  with  a  600V  fuse. 
That  is  double  protection— first,  for  ordinary  overloads 
protected  with  an  ordinary  fuse,  and,  second,  for  acci- 
dental connection  to  a  source  of  up  to  600V  ac. 

8081 A-10  AMPERES  AND  TRUE  RMS 

The  8010A  will  measure  10  amperes  of  ac  or  dc  current. 
That  is  higher  than  most  multimeters,  and,  because  the 
true  value  of  ac  current  is  measured,  even  complex 
current  waveforms  can  be  measured  with  accuracy  and 
confidence. 
DC  Current 

Ranges:  200  ^A,  2  mA,  20  mA,  200  mA,  2A  (and  10A  on 
8010A). 

Resolution:  0.1  y.A  on  lowest  range. 
Accuracy:  ±(0.3%  of  reading  +  1  digit)  on  all  ranges 
except  10A  range  on  8010A  where  accuracy  is  ±(0.5%  of 
reading  +  1  digit). 
AC  Current  (True  RMS) 
Accuracy:  ±(%  of  reading  +  no.  of  digits) 
45  Hz  2  kHz         10  kHz 


Range 

200  uA 
2  mA 
20  mA 
200  mA 
2000  mA 
10A* 


20kHz 


(1%+2) 


(2%  +  2) 


(1%  +  2) 


Not  specified 


FLUKE  DMM 
ACCESSORIES 

FLU-4820S  Carrying  case  (FLU-D810,  D811) S35.00 

FLU-C90  Carrying  case  (FLU-D800,  D802,  D804)    $10.00 
FLU-A81  AC  adaptor  (FLU-D800,  D802,  D804)    .  .  .$15.00 

FLU-80J10  10  Amp  current  shunt $30.00 

FLU-Y8133  Deluxe  test  lead  set    $15.00 

FLU-Y8134  Deluxe  test  lead  set  with  safety 

connectors   $15.00 

FLU-Y8140  Slim  test  lead  set $15.00 

FLU-80T150C  Temp  probe  (°C)    $110.00 

FLU-80T150F  Temp,  probe  (°F) $110.00 

FLU-Y8102  Sheath  thermocouple  (D804)   $50.00 

FLU-Y8103  Bead  thermocouple  (D804) $20.00 

FLU-Y8104  Thermocouple  termination  (D804) $10.00 

FLU-Y8008  Touch  and  hold  probe  (D810.  D811)  .  .   $40.00 

FLU-80K40  40KV  high  voltage  probe    $75.00 

FLU-81RF  100  MHz  rf  probe    $45.00 

FLU-82RF  500  MHz  rf  probe $85.00 

FLU-801600  Clamp-on  AC  current  probe  600A  .  .  .  $90.00 

FLU-Y8100  200A  AC/DC  current  probe $195.00 

FLU-Y8101  150A  AC  current  xformer $69.00 


HICKOK 


LX304 

•  3'/i  Digits 

•  V  LCD  Display 

•  Floating 
Decimal  Point 

•  Diode  Test  Function 

•  Auto  Zero, 
Auto  Polarity 

•  100  „!/'  Resolu- 
tion on  DCV 

•  200  Hr.  Battery  Lite 


SPECIFICATIONS 


DC  VOLTS 

200mV.  2V.  20V. 
200V, 1000V 

Input  Impedance 

lOMfi,  all  ranges 

Overload  Protection 

1000V  dc/peak  ac,  except  500V 
on  200mV  range 

RESISTANCE 

200Q.  2kn.  20kn, 
200ka  2Mn.  20MO 

Resolution 

O.m  on  200fi  range 

Accuracy 

±0.9%  + 1  digit  except  ±1.4% 
+  1  digit  on  20Mn  range 

Overload  Protection 

120V  dc  or  rms  ac,  all  ranges,  indefinitely 
240V  dc  or  rms  ac,  all  ranges,  30  seconds 

AC  VOLTS 

200V.  600V,  Avg.  sensing— rms 
calibrated  sine  wave 

Accuracy 

±1.0% +  4  digits,  40  Hz  to  120  Hz 
-0.2dB@1  kHz. -2.0  dB@  5kHz 

Input  Impedance 

4,3Mfi,  all  ranges 

Overload  Protection 

600V  dc  or  ac  rms,  all  ranges 

OC  CURRENT 

200mA,  1A 

Resolution 

0  1mA 

Accuracy 

±1.5%  *  1  digit,  all  ranges  except 
±2.5%  +  1  digit  on  200mA  range  of  LX  303 

Overload  Protection 

1.7A  all  ranges 

GENERAL 

Power 

Single  9V  battery;  NEDA  1604  (not  incl.t 
or  Hickok  AC  Adapter 

Battery  Indicator 

"Lo  Bat"  on  display 

Dimensions 

5'/b"  x  33/s"  x  13A"  (14.7  cm  x  8.5  cm  x  4.3  cm) 

Weight 

12  oz.  (0.33  kg)  including  battery 

HIC-LX304  . . . 

ftft&AS 

ACCESSORIES  (See  LX  303) 

LX303 

•  3V?  Digits 
•  14"  LCD  Display 

•  200  Hour  Battery  Lile 
Auto  Zero.  Polarity  and  Overage 

•  lOOmvDCF.C.  Sensilivity 
•  19  Ranges  and  Functions 

•  Weighs  on  12  ounces 


Specifications:  DC  Volts  (5  Ranges):  O.lmV  to  1000V; 
Accuracy  +0.5%  rdg  +0.5%  f.s.;  Input  imped:  10M 
ohms;  Max.  input  1kV  except  500V  on  200mV  range. 
AC  VOLTS  (40Hz  to  5kHz):  0.1  to  600  V;  Accuracy: 
+  1.0%  rdg  +0.5%  f.s.  (-2dB  max.  at  5kHz);  Max  in- 
put:600V.RESISTANCE  (6  LOW  POWER  RANGES):  0.1 
ohms  to  20M  ohms;  Accuracy:  +0.5%  rdg  +0.5%  f.s. 
(  +  1.5%  rdg  on  20M  ohms  range);  input  protected  to 
120  VAC  all  ranges.  DC  CURRENT  (6  RANGES):  01nA 
to  100mA;  Accuracy:  +1.0%  rdg  +0.5%  f.s.  DIMEN- 
SIONS AND  WEIGHT:  5-7/8"  x  3-3/8  x  1%",  12  oz.; 
Power:  9V  Batt.  (not  included)  or  Hickok  AC  adapter; 
READ  RATE:  3/sec.  OPERATING  TEMPERATURE: 
0°-50"  C. 
PART  NO. 
HIC-LX303 
HIC-RC-3 
HIC-CC-3 
HIC-VP-10 


HIC-VP40 
HIC-CS-1 
HIC-TP-20F 
HIC-TP-20C 


DESCRIPTION PRICE 

DIGITAL  MULTIMETER $79.95 

1 15V  AC  ADAPTER $  8.00 

PADDED  CARRY  CASE $  8.00 

X10  DC  PROBE  ADAPTER 

(Up  to  10KV) $16.50 

40kV  DC  PROBE $38.50 

10  Amp  DC  Current  Shunt   $16.50 

Temp  Probe  (-67  to  +  302F)   $49.95 

Temp  Probe  (-55  to  *  150C)  ....  $49.95 


VISIT  OUR  RETAIL  STORE 


BYTE  November  1980 


80  —  45 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


Non-Linear  Systems  oscilloscopes 


NEW  MS- 2 30  Dual  Trace  Miniscope  with  30  MHz  Bandwidth! 

From  the  originators  of  the  Digital  Voltmeter,  the  people  who  have  broken  sales  and  performance  records  for  Oscillo- 
scopes, Non-Linear  Systems,  comes  the  MS-230  miniscope. 

Non-Linear  Systems  took  their  engineering  and  modular  construction  skills  and  made  a  dream  a  reality,  a  Dual-Trace  30 
iniscope,  small  enough  to  fit  in  most  briefcases  with  room  to  spare  at  an  affordable  price. 


MHz  r 


FEATURES:  •  Dual-Trace  —  2-channel;  separate,  chopped  or 
alternate  modes.  •  Warranty  —  one  year  parts  and  labor.  •  30- 
megahertz  bandwidth.  •  External  and  internal  trigger.  •Time  Base 
—  0.05  microseconds  to  0.2  Sec./div  —  21  settings.  •  Battery  or 
line  operation.  •  Line  synchronization  mode.  •  Power  consump- 
tion less  than  50W.  •  Vertical  Gain  —  0.01  to  50  volts/div  —  12 
settings.  •  Size:  2.9"  H  x  6.4"  W  x  8,5"  D .  •  Weighs  only  3.5  lbs  with 
batteries  •  TEST  MOST  DIGITAL  LOGIC  CIRCUITS  INCLUD- 
ING MICROPROCESSORS. 


VERTICLE:  Mode:  CHI,  CH2,  CHI  &  CH2 (Chopped) &  CH2( Ait.) 
( The  following  specifications  apply  to  each  channel. )  Bandwidth: 
DC  to  30  MHz,  ±3  db  @  3  division  deflection.  Typical  4  division 
deflection  is  obtainbable  up  to  20  MHz.  Coupling:  AC,  DC  or 
ground,  switch  selectable  Low  frequency  3  db  point  on  AC  is  3 
Hz.  Rise  Time:  Approximately  10  nSec  @  3  division  deflection. 
Vertical  Input:  10  mV/div  to  50  V/div  in  12  calibrated  ranges 
Accuracy  is  3%.  Input  Impedance:  1  megohm  in  parallel  with  50 
pF. 

HORIZONTAL:  Mode:  Internal  time  Dase  or  external,  in  XY  mode, 
vertical  input  is  thru  CH1  and  horizontal  thru  CH2.  Time  Base:  0 .1 
^sec/div  to  0.5  sec/div  in  21  calibrated  ranges;  3%  accuracy. 
Bandwidth:  DC  to  1  MHz  (13  db)  Deflection  factor:  10  mV/div  to 
50  V/div  in  12  calibrated  ranges.  Max.  Input  Voltage:  250  V  (DC  and 
peak  AC).  Trigger  Modes:  Automatic,  internal,  external,  and  line 
(line  not  functional  when  operating  on  battery  power).  Slope 
Switch:  +  or  -.  Coupling:  AC  Sensitivity:  Less  than  1  div  for 
interanl  trigger  and  less  than  1  volt  for  external  trigger.  CRT 
Viewing  Area  (Screen  Size):  1 .1 "  H  x  1 .35 "  W  Graticule:  0.25  in./div 
(4  div  H  x  5  div  W).  Power:  3  rechargable  batteries  or  115  VAC  with 
transformer.  Battery  Life:  Approx,  45  minutes.  Power  Consump- 
tion: Less  than  50  watts  Input  Connector:  BNC;  Iwo  shielded 
cables  included.  Size:  2.9"  H  x  6.4"  W  x  8.5"  D.  Weight:  3.5  lbs.  with 
batteries. 
NLS  MS-230  Miniscope List  Price  S598.15 

Our  Price  $525.00 


MS-215  MINISCOPE  OSCILLOSCOPE 


An  extremely  small  dual-trace  oscilloscope  with  big  performance 
at  a  low  price.  Portable,  battery  powered  or  AC  line  operation 
Rechargeable  batteries  and  charger  included. 
FEATURES:  •  Dual  trace  —  2  channel;  separate,  chopped,  or 
alternate  modes.  •  15  MHz  bandwidth.  •  External  and  internal 
trigger.  •  Battery  or  line  operation.  •  Automatic  or  line  sync, 
modes.  *  Power  consumption  less  than  15  watts.  •  Time  Base:  0  1 
^sec  to  0.5  sec/div  in  21  settings.  •  Vertical  Gain:  0.01  to  50 
volts/div  in  12  settings.  •  Weighs  only  3  lbs.  with  batteries. 


SPECIFICATIONS:  Vertical  (Both  channels  identical}.  Mode: 
CH1.  CH2,  CH1  and  CH2  (chopped),  and  CH1  and  CH2  (alter- 
nate). Bandwidth:  DC  to  15  MHz,  ±6  db  at  1  div  deflection.' 
Risetime:  Approx.  23nsecat  1  div  deflection  Deflection  Factor:  10 
mV/div  to  50  V/div  in  12  calibrated  ranges;  3%  accuracy.  Max. 
Input  Voltage:  350  V  (DC  and  peak  AC)  provided  DC  component 
does  not  exceed  250  V  Horizontal  Mode:  Internal  time  base  or 
external.  In  XY  mode,  vertical  input  is  thru  CH1  and  horizontal  thru 
CH2.  Time  Base:  0.1  ^sec/div  to  05  sec/div  in  21  calibrated 
ranges;  3%  accuracy.  Bandwidth:  DC  to  200  kHz  (r3db)  Deflec- 
tion Factor:  10  mV/div  to  50  V/div  in  12  calibrated  ranges.  Max. 
Input  Voltage:  250  V  (DC  and  peak  AC).  Trigger:  Modes:  Auto- 
matic, internal,  external,  and  line  (line  not  functional  when  operat- 
ing on  battery  power).  Slope  Switch:  +  or  -  Coupling:  AC  Sensi- 
tivity: Less  than  1  div  for  internal  trigger  and  less  than  1  volt  for 
external  trigger.  CRT  Viewing  Area  (Screen  Size):  1 .1 "  H  x  1 .35" 
W  Graticlue:0.25  in, /div  (4  div  H  x5  divW)  Power  Consumption: 
Less  than  15  watts.  Power  Required:  AC  line  or  rechargeable 
batteries.  Battery  Lite:  3  hours  typical  Input  Connector:  BNC;  two 
shielded  cables  included.  Size:  2.9"  H  x  6.4"  W  x  8.0"  D  Weight:  3 
lbs. 
NLS-MS-215  Miniscope List  Price  $465.45 

Our  Price  $410.00 

*  Typical  3  dB  point  is  8  MHz  at  2-division  deflection.  Typical 
maximum  frequency  for  full  scale  (4-div)  deflection  is  2  MHz. 


MS-15  MINISCOPE  OSCILLOSCOPE 

An  extremely  small  oscilloscope  with  big  performance 
at  a  low  price.  Portable,  battery  operated,  or  AC  line 
operation.  Rechargeable  batteries  and  charger  unit  in- 
cluded. 1.1"  x  1.35"  viewing  area. 

FEATURES:*  15  MHz  bandwidth.  •  External  or  internal 
triggering.  •  Time  Base— 0.1/jsec.  to  0.5  sec/div.  in  21 
settings.  •  Battery  or  line  operation.  •  Automatic  and 
line  sync  modes.  •  Power  consumption  less  than  15 
watts.  •  Vertical  Gain— 0.01  to  50  volts/div.  in  12  set- 
tings. •  Weight— only  3  lbs. 


SPECIFICATIONS:  Vertical  Bandwidth:  15  MHz  ±  6  dB 

at  1  div.  deflection*.  Risetime:  Approx.  23nsec.  at  1  div 
deflection.  Deflection  Factor:  10  mV/div.  to  50  V/div.  ir 
12  calibrated  ranges;  3%  accuracy  .  Max.  Input  Voltage: 
350  V  (DC  +  peak  AC)  provided  DC  component  does  not 
exceed  250  V.  Horizontal  Mode:  Internal  time  base  or  ex 
ternal.  Time  Base:  0.1  usee  to  0.5  sec/div.  in  21 
calibrated  ranges;  3%  accuracy.  Horizontal  Bandwidth: 
DC  to  200  kHz  (±3  dB).  Deflection  Factor:  Approx 
1  V/div.  Max.  Input  Voltage:  100  V  (DC  +  peak  AC).  Trig' 
ger  Modes:  Automatic,  internal,  external  and  line  (line 
does  not  function  when  operating  on  battery  power) 
Slope  Switch:  +  or  - .  Coupling:  DC.  Sensitivity:  Less 
than  1  div.  for  internal  trigger;  less  than  1  volt  for  exter- 
nal trigger.  CRT  Viewing  Area  (Screen  Size):  1.1"  h.  x 
1.35"  w.  Graticule:  0.25  in./div.  (4  div.  h.  x  5  div.  w. 
Power  Consumption:  Less  than  15  watts.  Power  Re- 
quired: AC  line  or  rechargeable  batteries.  Battery  Life:  3 
hours  typical.  Input  Connector:  BNC;  two  cables  includ- 
ed. Size:  2.9"  h.  x  6.4"  w.  x  8.0"  d.  Weight:  3  lbs.  with 
batteries 
NLS-MS-15  Miniscope List  Price  $349. 

Our  Price  $310.00 

MHz  at  2-division  deflection.  Typical 
jll  scale  (4-div)  deflection  is  2  MHz 


'  Typical  3  dB  point  is  8 
maximum  frequency  for  f 


ACCESSORIES:    PROBES 


Deluxe  10  to  1  probe  with  10  megohm  input.  100  HHz 
probe  with  4  interchangeable  tips:  Spring-loaded  retrac- 
table cover  tip,  insulating  tip,  BNC  tip,  IC  tip,  also  in- 
cluded cap  adjustment  tool  and  zippered  vinyl  case. 
NLS-41-141 $27.00 


DELUXE  COMBINATION  PROBE 

Same  as  above  except  the  probe  has  a  switch  to  select; 
10  to  1,  1  to  1  or  a  ground  reference  position. 
BKP-PH37RD  Red  probe  body 
BKP-PR37GY  Grey  probe  body $39.50  ea. 


LEATHER  CARRYING  CASE 

The  leather  case  has  2  separate  compartments.  One  to 
hold  the  scope,  the  other  to  hold  the  charger,  probe 
shoulder  strap,  etc.  The  case  can  be  worn  on  the  belt,  or 
over  the  neck.  The  snaps  used  on  the  case  are  "one 
way",  thus  accidental  striking  of  the  case  against  an  ob- 
ject will  not  undo  the  snaps  or  let  it  be  pulled  off  you 
belt. 

NLS-41-180-  Leather  Case  (MS-230) $45.00 

NLS-41-140- Leather  Case  (MS-15  &  MS-215)  $45.00 

NLS-41-134-2  -  Charger  Unit,  230  VAC 

(MS-15  &  MS-215) $7.70 

NLS-41-184-2  •  Charger  Unit,  230  VAC 

(MS-230) $20.9 


-Only11x22x30cm 


SfC PRECISION , 


15  MHz  response:  usable  beyond  20  MHz 

•  10  mV/div  vertical  sensitivity 

•  Conveniently  fits  into  ordinary  attache  case 
(4.5  x  8.5  x  12")  with  handle 
Operates  on  AC,  external  10-16  VDC  or  optional  internal  battery  pack 

•  8  x  10  division  high-brightness  rectangular  CRT 
TIME/DIV  control  selects  line/frame  rate  triggering 
18  calibrated  sweep  positions 
Video  sync  separator  standard 
X-Y  operation  —  X  axis,  through  CH 

•  Front-panel  probe  calibration  source 
Weighs  only  3.6  kg.  (8  lbs.) 

SPECIFICATIONS 

VERTICAL  AMPLIFIER:  Deflection  Factor:  10  mV/div  to  20  V/div.  ±5%  in  11 
ranges,  each  with  vernier  adjustment.  Frequency  Response:  DC: -15  MHz 
(-3  dB);  AC:  -10  Hz-15  MHz  (-3  dB).  RiseTime:  24  nsec  or  less  Overshoot 
3%  or  less.  Input  Impedance:  1  Mil  shunted  by  22  pF.  Maximum  Input:  300 
V  (DC  *  AC)  peak  or  600  V  p-p.  Operating  Modes:  Channel  A  only;  Channel 
~  only;  A  &  B  (dual).  Dual-Trace:  Trace  automatically  chopped  at  all 
sweep  rates  less  than  or  equal  to  1  mSEC/div  and  alternate  mode  for 
all  sweep  rates  greater  than  1  mSEC/div.  Chop  Frequency:  100  kHz 

20%,  Channel  Separation:  Better  than  60  dB  at  1  kHz. 
SWEEP  SYSTEM:  (Common  to  Channel  A  and  Channel  B).  Type:  Auto- 
matic and  triggered  (NORM):  auto  provides  sweep  with  no  input 
signal.  Sweep  Time:  1.0  ^S/div  to  0.5  S/div  ±5%  in  18  ranges  in  a  1-2-5 
sequence.  Linearity:  3%;  10X  ±5%.  Sweep  Magnification:  x10.  ±10%, 
variable  between  ranges.  Extends  maximum  sweep  rate  to  100  nS /div. 
TRIGGERING:  Source:  CH  A.  CH  B.  (CH  A  in  dual)  external.  Automatic: 
Sweep  obtained  without  input  signal.  Normal:  Sweep  is  obtained  with  a 
displayed  signal  of  one  division  or  more.  Slope:  Sweep  can  be  set  to 
trigger  on  the  positive-  or  negative-going  slope  of  the  trigger  wave- 
form. Coupling:AC,  20  Hz-20  MHz.  Level:  Continuously  variable.  Trigger 
Sensilivity:  INT:  20  Hz  to  15  MHz  -  1  Div  deflection.  EXT.  20  Hz  to  15 
MHz  —1.0V  p-p.  External  Trigger  Input:  Max.  Input  Voltage:  50  V  p-p  or 
24  V.  DC  +  AC  peak  Input  Impedance:  100  Kit  (nominal).  Input  Capac- 
itance: 35  pF  (nominal). 

HORIZONTAL  AMPLIFIER:  Input  through  Channel  B  vertical  input.  Deflec- 
tion Factor:  10  mV/div,  to  20  V/div.  x5%  in  11  ranges,  each  with  fine 
adjustment.  Response:  DC:  DC  to  1  MHz  (-3  dB);  AC:  10  Hz  to  1  MHz.  Input 
Impedance:  1  Mil  (±5%).  22  pF  (±3pF)  Input  Protection:  300  V  (DC  I  AC 
peak)  or  600  V  p-p.  X-Y  Operation:  With  SWEEP  TIME/DIV  switch  in  X-Y 
position,  the  CH  B  input  becomes  the  X  input  (horizontal)  and  the  CH  B 
position  control  becomes  horizontal  position  control. 
OTHER  SPECIFICATIONS: 

Operating  Environment  —  Temp:  0  to  +45  C  Calibration:  Internal  1  V  p-pi 
3%  (square  wave  at  1  kHz  ±5%).  CRT:  Rectangular.  8  x  10  div  (OV 
cm/div)  with  P31  phosphor;  mumetal  shield.  Power  Requirements:  120 
VAC-60  Hz,  240  VAC-50  Hz,  10-16  VDC  or  internal  battery  Power 
consumption;  16  watts  (AC).  Supplied  with  120  VAC  adapter.  240  VAC 
adapter  available  on  special  order.  Size:(HW0)  11  x  22  x  30  cm  (4.5  x 
8.5x12")  with  handle.  8x20x25  cm  (3.25x7.75x10")  without  handle. 
Weight  3.6  kg  (8  lbs.)  with  optional  battery  Probes:  Two  10:1 /direct 
probes  and  accessory  tips  provided.  Options:  BP-14  battery  pack, 
LC-20  deluxe  carrying  case  with  shoulder  strap  and  pocket.  LC-21 
pouch  for  probes  and  operating  manual. 

LIST  PRICE         OUR  PRICE 
BKP 1420         Miniscope  $825.00  $750.00 

BKP-BP14         Battery  Pack  $  55.00 

BKP  LC20         Leathercase  CALL 

BKP-LC2I         Pouch  for  Probes  CALL 


3"  5  MHz  Solid 

State 

Oscilloscope 

$289.00 

B&K-PRECISION 
Model 

BKP-1405 

FEATURES:  5MHz  with  high  sensitivity  •  Direct  deflec- 
tion input  for  waveforms  to  450MHz  •  Sharp  bright  trace 
•  DC  amplifiers  on  both  axes  •  10mV/div  vertical  sen- 
sitivity •  Weighs  only  8.5  lbs. 

The  1403A  is  an  outstanding  value.  Bandwidth  extends 
to  5MHz  with  a  sensitivity  of  10mV/div  or  better.  With 
high  brightness  CRT  and  smoked-glass  filter. 
waveforms  are  clear  and  easy  to  observe.  The  graticule 
features  db  and  division  indexing. 
SPECIFICATIONS:  Vertical  Amplifier— Sensitivity: 
10mV/div  or  better.  Response:  DC,  DC-5MHz  (-3dB); 
AC,  2Hz-5MHz(-3dB).  Max  Input:  600V  peak  to  peak.  In- 
put Impedance:  1  meg  shunted  by  35pF.  Attenuattor:  1, 
1/10,  1/100  multiplier,  ±5%.  Gain  Control  Range: 
greater  than  22dB.  Horizontal  Amplifier— Sensitivity: 
300mV/division  or  better.  Response:  DC-250kHz.  Max  In- 
put: 100  Vp-p.  Sweep  System— Type:  Recurrent.  Time 
Base  Ranges:  10-100Hz,  100-1000Hz,  1 -10kHz, 
10-100kHz;  continuously  variable  between  ranges. 
Sweep  Linearity:  ±5%.  Sync:  Internal,  negative;  exter- 
nal. Direct  Deflection  Terminals:  10V/division  sensitivity 
or  better.  General  — Intensity  Modulation:  25Vp-p. 
Power:  117/234VAC.  50-60Hz.  10W;  three-wire  grounded 
line  cord.  Acc.incl.:  Leads,  spare  fuse,  instructions. 
Size:  (HWD)  13.1  x  18  x  29  cm  (5.25  x  7,25  x  11.5"). 
Weight:  3.8  kg.  (8.5  lbs.).  Optional  Accessories:  PR-21 
iprobe.  LC-14  case.  a 


80  —  46 


BYTE  November  1980 


WE  ACCEPT  VISA,  and  MASTER-CHARGE 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


Non-Linear  Systems 


DIGITAL 
PANEL 


DIGITAL 
MULTIMETERS 


DEL  PC-4  PANEL  METER  EVENT  COUNTER 


The  PC-4  is  an  all-solid-state  evenVcounter  or~totalizer 
designed  for  panel  mounting  and  high  reliability.  It  will 
totalize  electronic  pulses  up  to  200,000  per  second  or 
mechanical  switch  closures  up  to  3000  per  second.  The 
.3"  high  LED  display  is  easily  readable  up  to  eight  feet. 
Has  multiplexed  BCD  output  and  a  displayhold  feature. 
Input  Signal  Amplitude:  +  3  to  +15  volts  or  switch 
open  to  ground  for  count.  Decimal  Location:  external 
jumper  locates  decimal  to  any  of  four  positions.  Out- 
puts: 1-2-4-8  BCD  parallel.  Power  Source:  +5  VDC, 
±5%,  external.  Size:  0.9375"  h.  x  2.5"  w.  x  3.25  d. 
Weight:  4  oz. 

NLS  PC-4  Event  Counter— Price  Each $64.20 

MODEL  RC-5TB  UNIVERSAL  COUNTER 


9  3  9  3  9 


A  DIN  size  panel-mounted  universal  counter  which  can 
be  internally  programmed  to  function  as  a  unit  counter, 
frequency  counter.  The  RC-5TB  also  permits  internal 
selection  of  four  time  bases  of  0.01  sec,  0.1  sec,  1.0 
sec,  or  10  sec  for  the  frequency  counter  mode  and  1  cy- 
cle, 10  cycles,  or  1000  cycles  for  the  period  frequency 
ratio  and  time  interval  modes.  The  RC-5TB  utilizes  ter- 
minal block  connections  and  has  hold  and  reset 
capabilities.  Power  Requirements:  +  5  VDC,  ±5%. 
Operating  Temperature  Range:  0"  C  to  +50°  C.  Ac- 
curacy: Unit  counter  frequency  counter,  ±  1  count:  fre- 
quency ratio/period/time  interval,  ±1  count  +  time 
base  accuracy.  Number  of  Digits:  5.  Display:  0.5"  high 
LED.  Count  Rate:  Greater  than  1  MHz.  Input  signal 
Amplitude:  +  3  to  +15  volts.  Time  Base  Crystal  Fre- 
quency: 10  MHz.  Frequency:  DC  to  1  MHz.  Size:  Behind 
bezel.  3.58"  w.  x  1.645"  h.  x  3.80"  d. 
NLS  RC-5TB  "niversal  Counter-  Net  each $144.00 

MODELS  PR-5  AND  PR-5B 
DIGITAL  PRESET  COUNTERS 


PR-5 


S.H  3  E  7 

0     ^>  model  *"*•:> 


c 


Low-cost  electronic  digital  preset  counters  to  replace 
mechanical  counters.  Solid-state  LSI  design.  Up  to  500 
kHz  pulse  count  rate  or  300  contact  closures  per  se 
cond.  Accepts  subtractive  pulses  for  rejection  subtrac 
t ion  or  for  counting  downward.  Multiplexed  BCD  output 
Guarded  preset;  can  not  be  accidently  changed 
Unlimited  number  of  preset  count.  Applicable  to  totaliz- 
ing batch  counting,  digitizing,  timing  rate/frequency 
measurement,  press  control,  coil  winding  and  many 
other  applications.  5-digit,  0.3"  high  LED  display  in- 
dicates total  number  of  counts  less  any  subtractive 
counts.  Compatible  with  wide  range  of  sensors.  Count 
Speed:  Electronic,  up  to  500  kHz  (  +  3  V  to  +  15  V);  con- 
tact closure,  up  to  300/sec  Number  of  Resets:  One, 
built-in;  unlimited  number  with  external  switches; 
preset  number  set  by  front-panel  screwdriver  ad- 
justments. Input  Impedance:  40K  ohms.  Reset  Capabili- 
ty: Front-panel  pushbutton  switch  or  external  contact 
closure.  Power  Requirements:  +  12  VDC  (  ±  5%).  270  mA 
max.;  Mode)  PR-5B  contains  internal  rechargeable  bat- 
tery pack  which  provides  + 12  V  stand-by  power 
(without  toss  of  count)  for  approximately  1  hr.  in  case  of 
primary  power  failure.  An  optional  115  VAC  line  power 
supply  for  operation  of  Model  PR-5  or  recharging  bat- 
teries of  PR-5B  is  available  as  an  accessory.  Operating 
Temperature:  0  °  C  to  50  °  C.  Coincidence  Output:  Output 
signal  is  provided  when  displayed  count  is  equal  to 
preset  number  (TTL  logic  level)  or  when  zero  is  reached 
when  counting  downward.  Size:  2.25"  h.  x  3.25"  w.  x  4" 
d.  Weight:  4.75  oz. 

NLS  PR-5  Digital  Preset  Counter— Net  Each.        $168.55 
NLS  PR-5B  Counter  w/Battery  Pick- 
Net    Each $198.55 


RANGE  INFORMATION 

RANGE  CODE 

WHEN  ORDERING  PANEL  METERS  0-200V  A 

FROM  THIS  PAGE,  A  VOLTAGE  RANGE  0-200V  B 

MAY  BE  REQUIRED  IN  THE  PART  0-20V  C 

NUMBER.  PLEASE  USE  THE  CODES  0-2V  D 

GIVEN  0-.2V  E 


Great  performance  at  a  thrifty  price.  3Vz  digits;  3  digits 
olus  100%  overrange.  0.05%  accuracy. 
FEATURES:  •  MOS/LSI  construction.  •  Less  than  1" 
high.  •  Programmable  decimal.  *  No  zero  adjustment 
necessary.  •  Overload  indication.  •  Large,  bright,  0.3" 
LED  or  LCD  display.  •  Low  Power  requirement.  •  Display 
blanking.  •  Automatic  polarity.  •  Input  voltage  protec- 
tion. 

SPECIFICATIONS:  Voltage  Ranges:  0-  ±0.1999. 
0-  ±1.999,  0-  +  19.99.  0-  ±  199.9,  and  0-  1000  VDC. 
Accuracy  (at  +23"  C  ±2°  C):  ±0.05%  of  reading 
+  0.05%  of  full  scale.  Input  Impedance:  0.1999  volt 
range.  100  megohms:  1.999  volt  range.  1000  megohms; 
19.99  volt  range.  1  megohm;  199.9  and  1000  volt  ranges, 
10  megohms.  Display  Height:  0.3"  Display  Type:  PM-349 
and  PM-350,  LED:  PM-351 .  LCD.  Update  Rate:  3  rdg./sec 
nominal  Power  Requirements;  5  VDC  (±5%).  200  mA. 
nominal  for  PM-349  and  PM-350;  6mA  for  PM-351.  Com- 
mon Mode  Rejection:  80  dB.  minimum.  Common  Mode 
Compliance:  +  100  mV,  Operating  Temperature:  10°  C 
to  50 D  C.  Zero  Adjustment:  None  required.  Decimal  Posi- 
tioning Capability:  Standard.  Control  Signals:  Polarity 
Inhibit:  Standard.  Display  Inhibit:  Standard.  Scale  Fac- 
tor Adjustment:  ±5%.  Input  Voltage  Protection:  Stan- 
dard. Overload  Indication:  Standard.  Bipolar  Operation: 
Standard.  Automatic  Polarity:  Standard.  Special  Scal- 
ing: Optional  Offset  Capability:  Optional  Current  Meter 
Operation:  Optional.  Overall  Size:  2-7/8"  w.  x  15/16"  h.  x 
3%"  d. 
with  Soldered  in  components 

NLS-PM349-RANGE $55.65 

Range  change  resistors,  Display  and  IC's  are  plug  in 

NLS-PM350RANGE $69.55 

NLS-PM351-RANGE $78.10 

RANGE:  .2V  (PM350,  PM351  Only),  2V,  20V,  200V,  1000V. 

Specify  when  ordering. 

AVi  DIGIT  PM  SERIES  DIGITAL  PANEL  METER 
SPECIFICATIONS:    Voltage    Ranges:    0-  ±1.999, 
0-  19.999.  0-  ±  199.99,  0    -  ±  1000VDC.  Accuracy  (at 
NLS-PM450-RANGE $122.00 

4%   DIGIT  RM  SERIES  DIGITAL  PANEL  METERS 


RM-450 

SPECIFICATIONS:  Voltage  Ranges:  0-±  1.9999, 
0-  19.999.  0-  ±  199.99,  0-  ±  1000  volts.  Accuracy  (at 
23°  C  ±  2°):  0.02%  of  full  scale.  Imput  Impedance: 
1.9999  volt  range,  1000  megohms:  19.999  volt  range.  1 
megohm:  199.99  and  1000  volt  ranges,  10  megohms. 
Display  Height:  RM  450,  0.5";  RM-451,  0.4".  Display 
Type:  RM-450.  LED:  RM-451.  LCD. 

NLS-RMS450-RANGE (LED  DISPLAY)     $133.00 

NLS  RM450TB  RANGE (LED  DISPLAY)     $133.00 

NLS-RM451-RANGE   (LCD  DISPLAY)     $146.60 

NLS-RM450TB-RANGE (LCD  DISPLAY)     $146.60 

RANGE:  2V,  20V,  200V,  1000V. 

Specify  when  ordering. 

m  DIGIT  RM  SERIES  DIGITAL  METERS 

SPECIFICATIONS:  Voltage  Ranges:  0-  ±.  1999.  0-  ± 
1.999,  0-±  1999,  0-  ±  199.9.  and  0-±  1000 
VDC/VAC.  Accuracy  (at  23°  C  ±2°  C):  ±  (0.05%  of 
reading  +0.05%  of  full  scale).  Input  Impedance:  0.199 
volt  range.  100  megohms;  1.999  volt  range.  1000 
meghohms;  19.99  volt  range.  1  megohm:  199.9  and  1000 
volt  ranges,  10  megohms.  Display  Height:  0.5"  LED:  0.6" 
LCD.  Display  Type:  RM-350  or  RM-350TB,  LED:  RM-351 
or  RM-351TB,  LCD.  Update  Rate:  3  readings/second. 
Common  Mode  Rejection:  80  db  minimum  Common 
Mode  Compliance:  +  100  mV.  Operating  Temperature: 
10"  C  to  50"  C  Zero  Adjustment:  None  required.  Size: 
1.89"  h.  x  4.0"  w.  x  3.8"  d. 

NLS-RM350-RANGE (LED  DISPLAY)  $69.55 

NLS-RM350TB-RANGE (LED  DISPLAY)  $69.55 

NLS-RM351-RANGE (LCO  DISPLAY)  $81.30 

NLS-RM350TB-RANGE (LCD  DISPLAY)  $81.30 


RANGE:  .2V,  2V,  20V,  200V,  1000V. 

Specify  when  ordering. 


THE  NEW  TECHNOLOGY 
TOUCH/TEST  20  MULTIMETER 

Voltage  Measurements.  AC  volts  &  AC  millivolts  —  each  function  has 
three  ranges:  measurements  from  10  microvolts  to  750  VRMS.  DC 
volts  &  DC  millivolts  —  each  function  has  three  ranges,  measure- 
ments from  10  microvolts  to  1000  VOC. 

Temperature  Measurements.  Degrees  Celsius  &  Fahrenheit  —  two 
ranges;  measurements  from  -40  to  +150DC  or  from  -40°  to  +302':T. 
Conductance  Measurements.  Measurements  from  0.01  nanosiemens  to 
1.999  nanosiemens  which  is  equivalent  to:  from  5  megohms  to  100.000 
megohms 

Capacitance  Measurements.  Microfarads,  nanofarads  &  picofarads  — 
six  ranges  combined;  measurements  from  1.0  picofarad  to  200 
microfarads. 

Current  Measurements.  AC  amperes  &  AC  milliamperes  —  four  ranges; 
measurements  from  10  microamperes  to  10  amperes.  DC  amperes.  OC 
milliamperes  &  DC  microamperes  —  seven  ranges  combined;  mea- 
surements from  0.01  microamperes  to  10  amperes. 
Resistance  Measurements.  Megohms,  kilohms  &  ohms  —  seven  ranges 
combined,  measurements  from  10  milliohms  to  20  megohms. 
Other  Tests.  Diode  Test  —  A  single  quantitative  means  of  checking 
diode  and  transistor  junctions  in  both  conducting  and  non-conducting 
directions.  Continuity  Test  —  Provides  capability  for  audibly  checking 
conductors  and  solder  joints  for  shorts  and  open  circuits,  plus  a 
go-no-go  measurement  of  the  amount  of  resistance  from  10  milliohms 
to  2000  ohms. 

ACCURACY  SPECIFICATIONS 

DC  Voltage  -  DC  volts  &  DC  Millivolts 

±(0.2%  of  Reading  ♦  1  digit) 
AC  Voltage  -  AC  volts  &  AC  millivolts 

±(0.5%  of  Reading  *  2  digits)  -  50  Hz  to  10  kHz 
OC  Current  —  DC  amps,  DC  milliamps  &  DC  microamps 

±(1%  of  Reading  +  1  digit) 
AC  Current  —  AC  amps  &  AC  milliamps 

±(1.5%  of  Reading  +  2  digits)  —  50  Hz  to  10  kHz 
Temperature  —  %  &  °F 

±(3'C  from  -40°C  to  +150'X) 
Resistance  —  ohms,  kilohms  &  megohms 

±(0.25%  of  Reading  +  1  digit) 

Test  Current  —  100  nA,  10  ^A  &  1  mA 

Test  Voltage  —  0.2V  max.  @  F.S.  up  to  2  megohms 
Conductance  —  nanosiemens 

+(0.2%  of  Reading  +2  digits) 
Capacitance  —  microtarad,  nanotarad  8.  picofarad 

±(1%  of  full  scale) 
Diode  Test 

±(0.2%  of  Reading +  1  digit) 

Test  Current  —  1  mA  ±2% 

TOUCH/TEST  20  comes  complete  with  Test  Leads.  Temperature  Probe,  and 
Component  Test  Adaptor. 

CAT.  PART  ft  LIST  PRICE  OUR  PRICE 


NLS-TT20  $399.50 

NLS-TT20B  $425.00 

(With  Batteries  and  Charger  Unit) 
NLS-41-140        Leather  Carrying  Case 


$360.00 
$385.00 


$45.00 


A 


FM-300TB/115  and  FM-300TB/230 
LCD  Display  —  45.0  to  99.9  Hz. 

3DIGIT  FM  SERIES 
DIGITAL  LINE  FREQUENCY  MONITORS 
FEATURES:  •  Crystal  controlled  time  base.  •  Fits  DIN  or 
NEMA  cutout.  •  Large  0.6"  LCD  or  0.5"  LED.  •  Calibra- 
tion not  required.  •  Line  voltage  protection.  •  Display 
updated  every  two  seconds.  •  Terminal  block  connec- 
tions. 

SPECIFICATIONS:  Frequency  Range:  FM  3TB  and  FM- 
300TB.  45.0  to  99.9  Hz;  FM-340TB.  045  to  450  Hz,  Time 
Base:  1  second,  crystal  controlled.  Resolution:  FM-3TB 
and  FM-300TB.  0.1  Hr:  FM-340TB.  1  Hz.  Accuracy:  FM- 
3TB  and  FM300TB,  ±  0.1  Hz:  FM-340TB.  ±  1  Hz.  Display: 
FM-3TB.  0.5"  LED:  FM-300TB.  0.6"  LCD:  FM-340TB. 
0.6"LCD.  Update  Rate:  Once  every  two  seconds 
Operating  Temperature:  0  °  C  to  +  50 "  C.  Size:  1 .09"  h.  x 
4.00"  x  3.80"  d. 

NLS-FM3TB-115VAC $103.55 

NLS-FM3TB-230VAC S105.55 

NLSFM300TB-115VAC $109.15 

NLSFM300TB-230VAC $112.35 

NLS-FM340TB-115VAC $112.00 

NLSFM340TB  230VAC $115.00 


WE  ACCEPT  VISA,  and  MASTER-CHARGE 


BYTE  November  1980 


80  —  47 


DYNASCAN 
CORPORATION 


BSSSSBc 

Test  Equipment 

New 

Sweep/Function 
Generator 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


BKP-3020 

...Four 
One! 


LIST  PRICE      OUR  PRICE 

s35000      *30900 
Instruments    in 


decoders. ..Generate  double  side-band  supressed  car- 
rier signals  for  communications  system  tests. ..Evaluate 
attack-time  of  audio  compressors.. .Sweeptest  any 
passive  or  active  device  up  to  2MHz. 

FEATURES:  Four  instruments  in  one  package  —  sweep 
generator,  function  generator,  pulse  generator,  tone- 
burst  generator  •  Covers  .02Hz-2MHz  •  1000:  1  tuning 
range  •  Low-distortion  high-accuracy  outputs  •  Three 
-step  attenuator  plus  vernier  control  •  Internal  linear 
and  log  sweeps  •  Tone-burst  output  is  front-panel  or  ex- 
ternally programmable  •  Variable  symmetry  for  almost 
any  wave  shape  •  Independent  control  of  modulation 
and  carrier  level  •  Most  complete  low  frequency  signal 
source  in  its  price  range. 

APPLICATIONS:  Frequency  response  tests  ...  Amplifier 
square-wave  and  sweep  evaluation  ...  Tone-burst 
speaker  response  tests  ...  Bias  signal  source  ... 
substitute  signal  source  for  digital  and  analog  circuits 
...  Pulse  signal  source  ...  Check  threshold  levels  for  TTL 
and  CMOS  logic  ...  Receiver  alignment  ...  IF  response 
tests...  Observe  distortion  including  Transient  Inter- 
modulation  (TIM)  distortion  ...  Measure  linearity  of  in- 
struments and  transducers  ...  Check  for  ringing  induc- 
tors ...  Align  subaudible  and  tone-burst. 

SPECIFICATIONS:  Frequency- Range:  .02Hz-2MHz  in  7 

ranges,  (each  range  provides  1000:  1  frequency  control.) 
Ext.  Control:  VCG  range  >1000:  1  (linear)  on  any  range 
with  0-10V  input.  Accuracy:  ±5%  of  f .s.  Stability:  .05% 
(after  15  min.)  SQUARE  WAVE:  Variable  amplitude  and 
fixed  TTL  output.  Symmetry:  99%  to  100kHz.  Rise/Fall 
Time:  <100ns.  TTL  Square  Wave:  <25ns.  rise/fall  time 
(logic  0<0.4V;  logic  1>2.4V).  SINE  WAVE— Distortion: 
<1%  .02Hz  to  100kHz,  <0.5%  typical.  Amplitude 
Flatness:  Better  than  ±0.3dB  to  2MHz  at  max.  output. 
TRIANGLE  WAVE— Linearity:  99%  at  100kHz.  Variable 
Symmetry:  40:1  range,  .02Hz-2MHz.  AM  Modulation: 
0-1.5Vp-p  ext.  signal  required  to  provide  100%  modula- 
tion. Capable  of  suppressed  carrier  operation. 
SWEEP— Internal:  Linear  or  log.  Sweep  Rate:  0.5Hz  to 
50Hz.  Sweep  Width:  Var.  10:1  to  1000:1.  Sweep  V.  Out- 
put: Proportional  to  sweep.  Ext.  Sweep:  Rear  panel  VCG 
input  provided.  TONE-BURST— Burst  Width:  Adj.  from 
5-90%  of  period  of  internal  gating  frequency.  Ext. 
gating,  burst  width  determined  by  TTL  gating  pulse. 
Rep.  Rate:  0.5Hz  to  50Hz,  set  by  SWEEP  RATE  control. 
OUTPUT— Amplitude:  20Vp-p  open  circuit;  10Vp-p  at 
50Q.  Control:  Cont.  variable,  >20dB.  Fixed  attenuation, 
0-40dB  in  3  steps:  total  60dB  attenuation.  Output  Z:  50Q 
±5%.  DC  Offset:  Cont.  variable.  0  to  ±  10V  or  ±  5V  in- 
to 50Q. 


GENERAL— Rear  panel  jacks:  VCG  (sweep)  input,  GCV 
voltage  out  (prop,  to  freq.),  AM  input,  TTL  output,  ext. 
burst    gate    input.    Operating    Temp.:    0-50°C.    Power: 

105-130VAC,  60Hz,  22W.  Three-wire  cord.  Size  (HWD): 
8.1  x29  x  20cm.  (3.2  x  11.3  x  7.8")  incl.  handle.  Weight: 
1.35kg  (3.1  lbs.)  CSA  listed. 


New  Low  Distortion 
Function  Generator 


LI 


BKP-3010 


ST  PRICE      OUR  PRICE 

$20000      $17500 


APPLICATIONS:  Frequency  response  tests  •  Amplifier 
performance  evaluation  •  Bias  signal  source  • 
Analog/Digital  signal  substitution  •  Receiver  alignment 

•  Check  linearity  of  test  instruments  ■  Check  resonant 
circuits  for  ringing  inductors. 

FEATURES:  Generates  sine,  square  and  triangle 
waveforms  •  Variable  amplitude  and  fixed  TTL  square- 
wave  outputs  •  0.1  Hz  to  1  MHz  in  six  ranges  •  Typical 
sine  wave  distortion  under  0.5%  from  0.1  Hz  to  100  kHz 

•  Variable  DC  offset  for  engineering  applications  •  VCO 
external  input  for  sweep-frequency  tests. 

SPECIFICATIONS:  Frequency— Range:  0.1Hz  to  1MHz 
in  six  ranges.  (Each  range  provides  >100:1  freq.  control.) 
Ext.  Control:  >100:1  on  any  range  with  0-5. 5V  input.  Ac- 
curacy: 5%  of  f.s.  Stability:  .05%  (after  15  min.) 
SQUARE  WAVE— Symmetry:  99%  to  100kHz  Rise/Fall 
Time:  <100ns.  TTL  Square  Wave:  <25ns  rise/fall  time. 
TRIANGLE  WAVE— Linearity:  99%  to  100kHz.  SINE 
WAVE— Distortion:  <1%  0.1Hz  to  100kHz;  <0.5% 
typical.  Amplitude  Flatness:  <0.3dB  to  1MHz  at  max. 
output.  OUTPUT— Amplitude:  20Vp-p  open  circuit, 
10Vp-p  into  600S2.  Continuously  variable,  >30dB  range. 
Output  Z:  600B  ±5%.  DC  Offset:  Var.  to  max.  of  ±10V 
open  circuit  or  ±  5V  at  600n.  GENERAL— Operating 
Temp.:  0-50"C.  Power:  105-130VAC,  60Hz,  8W.  Size 
(HWD):  8.1  x  29  x  20cm  (3.2  x  11.3  x  7.8")  incl.  handle. 
Weight:  1.3kg  (2.9  lbs.).  CSA  listed. 

80  MHz  Counter  with 
Period  Mode  and  Timer 


BKP-1820 


LIST  PRICE      OUR  PRICE 

*30000      $26500 


FEATURES:  •  5Hz  to  80MHz  reading  guaran- 
teed—100MHz  typical  •  Period  measurements  from  5Hz 
to  1  MHz.  "  Period  average,  auto  and  manual  positions  • 
One  PPM  resolution  •  Totalizes  to  999999  plus  overflow 

•  Elapsed  time  measurements  from  .01  to  9999.99 
seconds  plus  overflow  •  One-megohm  input  resistance 

•  Bright,.  43"  high  LED  readouts. 

SPECIFICATIONS:  FREQUENCY  — Range:  5Hz  to 
80MHz  Gate  Time  Auto:  10ms  (MHz)  and  100ms  and  1 
sec.  (kHz).  Gate  Time  Man.:  1  sec.  (1  Hz  reso.).  Accuracy: 
±t.b.  accur.  ±1  count.  Resolution:  ±0.0001%  (i.e. 
1  PPM  of  a  6  digit  scale).  PERIOD— Range:  5Hz  to  1  MHz; 
MS  (100  period  aver.)  or  AUTO  reading.  Period  Aver.  Auto: 
1  period  aver,  (ms),  10  and  100  period  aver.  (^s).  Period 
Aver.  Man.:  100  and  100  period  aver,  (ms  reading  with  1  ns 
reso.).  TOTALIZE  CHAR.— Range:  5Hz  to  80MHz;  0  to 
999999  plus  overflow.  Control:  Man.  reset  to  0;  converti- 
ble to  remote  reset.  ELAPSED  TIME— Range:  .01  to 
9999.99  sec.  plus  overrange.  Trigger:  TTL  or  contac 
closure.  Reset:  Manual,  on  front  panel.  IN 
PUT— Impedance:  1  M£;  25pF.  Coupling:  AC.  Sensitive 
ty:  30mV  rms,  5Hz  to  40MHz;  50mV  max.  at  80MHz 
Derate  linearly  to  100  V  (peak  AC  +  DC)  at  1kHz.  Max 
Input:  200V  (peak  AC  +  DC)  DC  to  500  Hz,  derate  linear 
ly  to  30V  (peak  ac  +  dc)  @  80MHz.  Attenuator:  X10 
switch  sel.  INT.  TIME  BASE— (25°C;1/2  hour  warm-up) 
10MHz  Crystal  Oscillator.  Setability:  ±0.1  PPM  (±  1Hz). 
Stability:  <±1PPM  for  ±10°  Line  Voltage 
Variations  ±0.001%  (i.e.  ±10  PPM)  from  0"  to  50 °C  am- 
bient. Max.  Aging:  ±  1  PPM/YR.  Ext.  Input:  TTL  Level, 
switch  sel.,  General  — Power:  105V  to  130V  and  212  to 
258V.  50/60  Hz.  Size  (HWD):  8.1  X  29  x  19  cm.  (3.25  x  11.6 
x  7.50")  incl.  handle.  Weight:  1.4  kg  (3  lbs.). 


Portable  Autoranging 
Digital  Capacitance  Meter 


BKP-830 


LIST  PRICE     OUR  PRICE 

$19900      *174°° 


•  Automatically  measures  capacitance  from  0.1pF  to  200  mF 

•  0.1pF  resolution 

•  No  range  switching 

•  10  internal  ranges  for  accuracy  and  resolution 

•  0.2%  basic  accuracy 

•  Range  hold  switch 

•  Zero  control  lor  test  lead  compensation 

•  3: 2  digit  LCD  display 

•  Banana  jacks  and  special  lead  insertion  jacks 

•  Battery  or  AC  operation 

•  Fuse-protected 

CAPACITANCE 

Range:  10  automatically  selected  ranges  with  full  scale  value  from 
199. 9pF  to  199.9mF  (reads  from  0.1pF  to  0.2F,  with  resolution  of 
0.1  pF),AccuracyMufo.2%of  reading,  ±0.5pF.±1  digit  to  1999uF. 
1%  of  reading,  ±1  digit  from  20uF  to  l99.9mF;  Hold  all  specs 
between  180  &  1999  counts  same  as  Auto;  for  all  readings  between 
0  and  179  counts  add:  0.1%  of  full  scale  to  19.99mF  full  scale,  0.5% 
of  full  scale  from  19.99uF  full  scale  to  199.9mF  full  scale. 
Resolution:  0.1  pF  on  lowest  range  and  0,05%  of  full  scale  on  all 
other  ranges,  Reading  Time:  0.4-1 .0  SEC  to  0.20mF;  increasing  to 
6  SEC  at  200mF  Zero  Control:  Can  compensate  up  to  25pF  of  test 
lead  capacitance.  Minus  sign  (-)  indicates  overcompensation. 
Overrange  Indicator:  (All  Ranges)  plus  sign  (+)  with  blank  display 
and  mF  LED  on, 
GENERAL 

Display:  3 Va  digit  LCD  display.  Front  Panel  Controls:  Range  HOLD 
switch,  ZERO  adjust,  ON-OFF  switch.  Power  Source:  4  standard 
"C"  size  cells  operating  from  4.2-6  volts,  nicad.  alkaline,  or  zinc 
carbon,  with  provision  for  AC  adapter/charger.  (Note:  batteries 
and  charger  are  not  supplied.)  Battery  Lite:  20  hour*  minimum, 
continuous  use.  Operating  Temperature:  *15°C  to  +35°C  (59°F 
to  95C:F)  at  stated  accuracy.  Usable  range  at  reduced  accuracy: 
0°C  to  50nC(32°F  to  122CF).  Dimension:  16x11  x  6cm  (6.4x4.4  x 
2.4").  Weight:  725g  (1 .6  lbs.)  with  batteries.  Optional  Accessories: 
BC-28  AC  adapter/charger,  BP-28  battery  pack,  LC-28  carrying 
case. 

New  Portable  Digital 
Capacitance  Meter 


BKP-820 


LIST  PRICE      OUR  PRICE 

$15500      *14000 


FEATURES:   Measures  capacitance  to   1    Farad  in   10 

ranges  •  Resolves  to  0.1pF  on  lowest  range  •  4  digit 
easy-to-ready  LED  display  •  0.5%  accuracy  •  Special 
lead  insertion  jacks  and  banana  jacks  •  Fuse  protected 
•  Uses  either  rechargeable  or  disposable  batteries  • 

Overrange  indication. 

APPLICATIONS:  Measure:  unmarked  capacitors  •  cable 
capacitance  •  trimmer  capacitors  •  capacitance  in  swit- 
ches and  other  components  •  capacitor  tolerance  for  in- 
coming inspection,  QA;  Design  use. 

SPECIFICATIONS:  Capacitance— Range:  0  1pF  to  1000 
millifarads  (1   Farad)  in  10  ranges.  Accuracy:  0  5%  of 

F.S.,  ±  1  digit  to  100mF;  1%  of  F.S.,  ±  1  digit  from 
1000fjF  to  1000mF.  Resolution:  0.1pF  on  lowest  range. 
Reading  Time:  0.6  sec  to  10mF,  increasing  to  35  sec 
max.  at  1000mF.  Overrange:  Bottom  segments  of  digits 
are  "ON"  for  overrange.  GENERAL:  Display:  4  digit  LED. 
Power:  (4-6  volts)  4  standard  "C"  size  cells,  nicad, 
alkaline  or  zinc  carbon,  with  provision  for  charger  (bat- 
teries and  charger  not  supplied).  Battery  Life:  8  hours 
min.  Operating  Temp.:  0°C  to  SOX  (32°  to  100°F).  Size 
(HWD):  16  x  11  x  6cm  (6.4  x  4.4  x  2.375").  Weight:  675g. 
(1.15  lbs.)  with  batteries.  Optional:  BC-28  charger,  BP-28 
battery  pack,  LC-28  carrying  case. 


80  —  48 


BYTE  November  1980 


WE  ACCEPT  VISA,  and  MASTER-CHARGE 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


VACUUM  BASE 
$19.95       PNV-380 


LOW-PROFILE  BASE 
$13.9i>       PNV-305 


STANDARD  BASE 
PNV-300     $13.95 


SH.WT. 
2  lbs. 


PNV-304 
HORIZONTAL  JAW  VISE  HEAD 


Not  Included 


$12.95 

PNV-312  TRAY  BASEMOUNT 


SH.WT. 
2  lbs. 


PNV-311 


PNV-315 
$19.95 


BOARD  HOLDER 


with   14"  uat 

FITS  S-100  BOARDS 


$16.95 


BENCH  CLAMP 


STANDARD  VISE  HEAD 

SH.WT.  2  lbs. 


PANAVISE  TILTS,  TURNS,  AND 
ROTATES  TO  ANY  POSITION. 
IT  HOLDS  YOUR  WORK 
EXACTLY  WHERE  YOU  WANT  IT. 


PNV-303 


Hmter  Tools 


SEMI-FLUSH  CUTTING  Regular 
head  design  for  *20  (.032")  soft 
copper  or  smaller.  A  popular  cut- 
ter on  the  assembly  line.  Exclusive 
duradium  process  (see  tech  sheet). 
Makes  this  cutter  tough  for  elec- 
tronic production  applications. 

A  =  4%      HNT-20197(cl  $12.25! 

FULL  FLUSH  CUTTING  Our  most 
popular  cutter.  Slim  taper  nose  de- 
sign plus  full  flush  cut  at  extreme 
tip  combine  to  make  the  ideal  pro- 
duction cutter.  Recommended  for 
#20  (.032")  soft  copper  wire  or 
smaller.  Exclusive  duradium  proc- 
ess (see  tech  sheet)  gives  un- 
matched life  to  the  cutting  edge. 
Perfect  for  P.C.  board  and  related 
high  density  applications  where 
clearance  is  a  factor.   A  =  414" 

HNT-20195(c)  $12.46 
SEMI  FLUSH  CUTTING  Taper  nose 
and  tip  cutting.  This  cutter  is 
larger  than  the  *20195  for  durabil- 
ity and  longer  life.  Recommended 
for  *18  (.0403")  and  smaller  cop- 
per wire.  Ideal  for  P.C.  board  and 
related  type  applications  where 
density  allows  a  larger  head  pro- 
file. A  =  4'A" 

HNT-20186(c)  $12.72 
TIP  DYKE  -  SEMI-FLUSH  CUTTING 
For  getting  in  those  tight  spots 
with  maximum  visibility.  Cuts  at 
the  extreme  tip  and  has  alignment 
pin  to  keep  the  cutter  Dlades 
aligned.  Recommended  for  nickel 
ribbon  size  .010"  x  .030"  and  smal- 
ler. Also  *22  (.0253")  and  smaller 
copper  wire.  Perfect  for  work  on 
D.I.P.'s  and  other  I.C.  packages 
where  clearance  and  visibility  are 
factors.  A  =  43/«" 

HNT-20190  $20.09 

ULTRA  FINE  "DELICATE"  CUTTING  AND  BENDING  APPLI- 
CATIONS.  DELICATE  YET   DURABLE 

FULL  FLUSH  CUTTING  Tiny  deli- 
cate cutter.  Thin  taper  jaw  plus 
overall  small  size.  Gets  into  those 
tight  spots.  Ideal  for  super  high 
density  P.C.  board  work  and  re- 
work, and  other  delicate  jobs. 
Recommended  for  #24  (.020")  and 
smaller  copper  wire.  A  =  31!V|.." 

,n, , MATURE  CHAIN  NOSfc  Minia- 
ture for  extra  fine  work.  Designed 
for  bending,  forming  or  holding 
delicate  parts  and  assemblies 
found  in  the  electronics  industry. 
Also  widely  used  wherever  preci- 
sion pliers  are  required  such  as 
instrumentation  work,  hobbyists, 
technicians,  etc.  Radius  edges  and 
smooth  gripping  surface  for  pro- 
tection of  delicate  assemblies. 

CURVED  MINIATURE  CHAIN 
NOSE  Similar  to  #20144  but  with 
curved  nose.  Gets  into  those  tight 
spots.  Particularly  suited  to  P.C. 
board  rework  and  instrumentation 
applications,  a  =  41/;" 


HNT-20177  $10.04 


A  =  4V4" 
HNT-20144  $12.46 


HNT-21029   $14.73 


FINE  CUTTING  AND  BENDING  APPLICATIONS.  DELICATE 
YET  DURABLE  FLUSH  AND  SEMI-FLUSH  CUTTERS.  RECOM- 
MENDED FOR  USE  ON  "18  (.040")  AND  SMALLER  SOFT  COP- 
PER WIRE.  ALL  HUNTER  PRECISION  ELECTRONIC  CUTTERS 
COME  COMPLETE  WITH  SPRING,  COLOR  CODED  CUSHION 
GRIP  HANDLES,  AND  FULL  POLISH  HEAD. 


NARROW  CHAIN  NOSE  Serrated 
jaw,  radius  edged  for  precision 
looping,  twisting,  and  bending. 
Serrated  jaw  for  extra  grip  with 
minimum  pressure.  A  delicate  yet 
durable  tool  for  production  use. 

A  =  4J/4"  HNT-20150(c)  $10.04 

EXTRA  LONG  NEEDLE  NOSE  Ser- 
rated jaw  radius  edged.  For  preci- 
sion pulling,  clamping  and  hold- 
ing. Strong  taper  point  insures  long 
working  life,  serrated  jaws  for  firm 
grip  using  less  pressure.  Reduces 
fatigue.  Perfect  for  production,  line 
use.    A  =  5%" 

HNT-2010S(c)  $11.38 

SUPER    THIN    NEEDLE    NOSE 

Smooth  jaws,  radius  edged  for  pre- 
cision bending,  reaching,  clamp- 
ing and  forming.  Delicate  needle 
nose  allows  access  to  remote 
areas.  Ideal  for  guiding  leads 
through  high  density  areas. 

A  =  43/."     HNT-20114(c)  $11.12 

SUPER  THIN  -  EXTRA  LONG  - 
NEEDLE  NOSE  Smooth  jaws,  radius 
edged.  Similar  to  *20114  but  long- 
er. Extra  long  "delicate"  needle 
nose  allows  access  to  remote 
areas.    A  =  6" 

HNT-20115(c)  $11.79 


c= 


^Ece^H 


KNIFE  SETS 


Stripper  and  Cuttei  with  spring 
HNT-25508  $308  , 


HEAVV  DUTY  KNIFE  SET  includes  three 
knives,  regular  #50130,  heavy  duty 
#50160  and  extra  heavy  duty  #50170, 
plus  10  assorted  blades.  Packed  in  com- 
pact clear  plastic  carrying  case, 

HNT-50182    $6.43 


■jr  ~,k«. 


A 


STRAIGHT  NOSE  FORCEP  CLAMP 

5"  Model  HNT-54035  $6.43 
FORCEP  CLAMP  (Hemostat,  ForcepJ 
Popular  in  the  electronics  field  with  ap- 
plications throughout  industry  Clamps, 
holds  and  positions  small  parts,  wires, 
pins,  etc. 


PRECISION  KNIFE  SET  Popular  set  both 
in  industry  and  with  the  hobbyist.  Com- 
plete with  two  most  popular  handles 
#50130  and  #50160  plus  10  assorted 
blades.  Packed  in  compact  clear  plastic 
carrying  case. 

HNT-50183    $4.55 


CA,  AK,  HI,  CALL  (213)  894  8171 


BYTE  November  1980 


80  —  49 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


Ungar 


MODULAR  SOLDERING  TOOLS 

Designed  for  Professionals  by  Professionals  _ 


STANDARD  LINE  SOLDERING  TOOLS 


The  modular  "Standard  Line"  provides  the  professional  with  a  durable  yet  economical  iron  for  all  types 
of  soldering.  Handles  are  perfectly  balanced  for  comfort  and  fatigue-free  soldering.  Heaters  provide 
fast  recovery  and  maximum  heat  transfer,  AH  irons  are  120  VAC. 

Note:  LAN  electrical  Tools  &  Components  are  UL  Listed  and  bear  the  mark.  Rated  at  1 20  Volts  AC/DC. 

2.  All  Temperature  Ranges  are  Approximate. 

3.  Tip  not  included. 


MODEL  750  GROUNDED  3-WIRE  HANDLE 

The  handle  when  assembled  with  the  S  or  HP  Series  heaters,  is  completely  grounded  from  tip  to  plug 
and  eliminates  electrostatic  tip  potential.  A  unique,  spring-loaded  ground  plate  reflects  heat  away  from 
the  operator's  hand.  For  use  only  with  S  or  HP  heaters. 
Ungar  Model  750  Grounded  Handle  —  UNG-750 $9.95 


MODEL  777  CLEAN  ROOM  HANDLE 

Convection-cooled,  molded  grip  for  "clean  room"  use.  Octagonal  handle  prevents  rolling.  Stainless 

steel  heat  reflector.  Accepts  all  Standard  Line  heaters  and  integral  heater/tips,  including  the  S  and  HP 

series. 

Ungar  Model  777  Clean  Room  Handle  —  UNG-777 $4.95 


\ 

S  SERIES  STAINLESS  STEEL  HEATERS 

Constructed  of  corrosion-resistant  stainless  steel.  Units  feature  improved  2-  or  3-wire  versatility,  high 
strength,  resistance  to  abuse  and  provide  positive  transfer  of  heat  to  the  tip.  Wedge-shaped  base  guide 
permits  firm,  taper-fit  assembly  to  the  handle.  The  heat  reflecting  shield  also  provides  a  positive  ground 
when  used  with  Model  750  grounded  handle.  Models  537-S,  1 237-S  and  4037-S  Thread-On  Heaters  will 
accept  all  W  Thread-On  Tips  and.  with  No.  100  Adapter,  all  v6"  Thread-in  Tiplets  and  Nibs;  with  No.  101 
Adapter,  all  3/16"  Thread-in  Tips. 


PART  NO. 

TEMP. 

FOR'/ 

"  THREAD-ON  TIPS 

WATTS                                SIZE 

PRICE 

UNG-537-S 

UNG-1237-S 

UNG-4037-S 

Approx  700 
Approx.  800 
Approx  900 

23                  3.67"  Ig.  x  .365"  diam. 
33                  3.65"  Ig.  x  .375"  diam. 
45                  3.45"  Ig.  x  .365"  diam. 

$5.40 
$6.47 
S8.43 

3  WIRE  LINE 


The  ultimate  tool... approved  grounding  ensures  maximum  safety  from  static-induced  currents  to 
sensitive  circuitry.  Meets  NASA/military  standards  plus  gives  you  the  versatility  of  more  than  40  tips, 
tiplets,  nibs,  and  three  fast-change  heater  units.  Handle  up  to  30"'  cooler.  New  heat  resistant  cord  set. 

Use  V  thred-on  tips  or  adapters 


COMPLETE  3-WIRE  IRON 


PART 
NO. 


DESCRIPTION 


SUGGESTED  USER  PRICE 


lUNG-127 
lUNG-135 

UNG-145 


Handle,  650'7 
Handle,  750,: 
Handle,  900'' 


■750°  F, 
850-  F 
■1000"  F 


27W. 
35W. 
.  45W. 


$14.88 
$14.88 
$14.88 


V*"  THREAD-ON  TIPS  AND  ADAPTERS 


*   I 

H  [J 


1 

[I 


PL-111  PL-113  PL-114  KL-133  Pl-138  PL-151  PL-153  PL-155 

TIPS 


Material 

Size,  Ins. 

Ungar 
No. 

Tip 
Shape 

Ovrl.                 Tip 
Lgth.                 Diam. 

Net 

Each 

VT  THREAD-ON  TIPS 

UNG-PL111 
UNG-PL113 
UNG-PL114 
UNG-PL133 
UNG-PL138 
UNG-PL151 
UNG-PL153 
UNG-PL15S 


Plated' 
Plated- 
Plated' 
Plated' 
Plated' 
Plated' 
Plated' 
Plated' 


Pencil 
Chisel 
Micro  spade 
Taper  chisel 
Needle 
Screwdriver 
Chisel 
Stepped  chisel 


1-1/4 
1-1/4 

1 
1-1/16 
1-1/4 
1-1/4 
1-1/16 
1-1/4 


1/8 
1/8 
.05 
1/8 
3/64 
1/8 
3/16 
1/16 


$1.85 
$1.85 
$1.85 
$1.92 
$1.85 
$1.85 
$1.85 
$1.85 


ADAPTERS 


UNG-100 
UNG-101 


1/4"  thread-on  heaters  to  1/8"  thread-in  tips 
1/4"  thread-on  heaters  to  3/16"  thread-in  tips 


$  .63 
$  .63 


SOLDERING  STATION 


PRINCESS®  MICRO  LINE 


Princess  Kit 

UNG-6975  $21.59 

Complete  Princess  iron  with  3  interchangeable 
copper  nibs.  Includes  #6902  2-wire  handle,  #6910 
10W  heat  capsule  and  #6950,  #6951  and  #6952 
soldering  nibs. 

Princess  Soldering  Station 

UNG-6900   $28.50 

Complete  10W  soldering  station.  Fully  assembled 
iron  with  3  copper  nibs  plus  Princess  iron  holder 
and  cleaning  sponge.  Includes  #6902  2-wire  handle, 
#691 0 1 0W  heat  capsule  and  #6950,  #6951  and  #6952 
nibs,  #6990  iron  holder  and  sponge. 


Designed  expressly  for  the  special  needs  of  micro-electronic  assembly.  This  popular  precision  tool 
design  enables  pinpoint  hand  control,  comfort  and  accuracy  assuring  hi-yield  soldering  of  delicate 
circuitry  and  components  in  the  tightest  spaces. 


PART 
NO. 

HANDLES 

DESCRIPTION 

.PRICE 

UNG-6902 
UNG-6903 

Nylon  Pastel  Turquoise.  Plastic 
cool-grip,  2-wire  plug  &  cord. 

Nylon  Pastel  Turquoise,  Plastic 
cool-grip,  3-wire  plug  &  cord 

$  8.72 
$11.78 

HEAT  CAPSULES  (Accepts  all  W 

nibs  and  tiplets) 

UNG-6918 

Reach:  2%."  775--850-  F„  18W 

$10.58 

V."  PRINCESS  NIBS 

UNG-6960 
UNG-6961 
UNG-6962 
UNG-6963 
UNG-6953 

Platedt               Pencil 
Platedt               Screwdriver 
Platedt               Spade 
Platedt              Precision 
Copper               Precision 

3/8 
7/16 
3/8 
3/8 
3/8 

1/16 
1/16 
1/16 
1/16 
1/16 

$1.62 
$1.62 
$1.62 
$2.90 
$1.58 

t  Iron  ciad  ana  gold  plated. 


DE-SOLDERING  EQUIPMENT 


PART 
NO. 


6948 


DESCRIPTION 


6982 


6983 

PRICE 


UNG-50  DK  Ungarmatic*  Desoldering  Kit  Adapts  for  fast,  easy  removal 

of  14  and  16  pin  DIP'S.  Kit  includes  95  Tip  Adapter,  6982 
Extractor,  6948  Bar  Tip,  5013  Super-Wick  Desoldering  Braid 

UNG-51  DK  Desoldering  Kit.  Same  as  above.  With  100  Adapter,  fits  Ungar 

Heaters.  Standard  1237-S,  4037-S,  37  HP.  3-wire  135. 

145  Dl"  361,  362 
UNG-5002  Super-Wick™  050  W  Desoldering  Braid 

UNG-5004  Super-Wick'"  100  W  Desoldering  Braid 

UNG-6980  DIP  Extractor  Pliers 

UNG-6982  Dual  In-Line  Extractor.  Removes  up  to  16  pin  IC's,  use  6948 

desolder  tip 
UNG-6983  TO-5  Extractor,  for  most  TO  type  cans,  use  desolder  tips: 

6943,  6944,  6946 
UNG-6948  Desolder  Tip.  for  DIP'S,  Iron  Clad,  pre-tinned 

UNG-7805  Solder-Off  Bulb  with  TEE  tip 


$12.45 


$11.20 


$  1.65 

$  1.89 
$14.95 

$  4.22 

$  4.87 

$  5.00 

$  2.88 


PRODUCTION  AIDS; 

M 

ftflnn  f  *^ 


PART 

NO. 


DESCRIPTION 


UNG-8000  Iron  Holder.  All  Irons' 

UNG-6990  Iron  Holder,  for  Princess  Iron  only 

UNG-8800  Iron  Holder.  All  Irons"  plus  Ungarmatic  and  Hot  Vac  2000 

UNG-400  Kleen-Tip  Sponge  &  Tray,  fastens  to  workbench,  sponge 

replaceable 
UNG-455  Replacement  sponge 


HEAT  GUN 


Uron  clad  and  silver  plated. 


Specifically  built  for  electronic  assembly,  the  W  nozzle 
enables  precise,  accurate  heat  flow  (750  '-BOO1-'  F.)  for  a 
variety  of  applications  including:  shrink  tubing,  curini 
cements,  reflow  soldering,  cooling/drying,  encapsulation, 
shrink  films,  and  component  stressing.  Four  baffle 
adapters  standard  with  heat  guns  for  complete  versatility. 
Weighs  13  oz.  Convenient  3-way  switch.  Case' of  UL 
recognized  glass  filled  plastic.  #6966C  complete  with 
3-wire  NEMA  plug  for  approved  grounding. 


PART 
NO. 


DESCRIPTION 


3-Wire  Model,  4  baffle  adapters  standard 


S59.95 


J 


80  —  50 


BYTE  November  1980 


PLEASE  ORDER  BY  PART  NUMBER 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


UNGAffwwtie 

MODULAR  SOLDERING  TOOLS 

Designed  for  Professionals  by  Professionals 

Controlled  Soldering  Station 

THREAD-TOGETHER  MODULAR  DESIGN  FOR 
QUICK,  ON-LINE  HEATER  OR  TIP  CHANGE 

•  Available  in  3  preset  temperatures;  600°  F.,  700°  F. 
or  800°F.  for  any  application. 

•  Closed  loop,  non-magnetic  control. 

•  Low  voltage  system;  3  wire  grounded. 

•  Biomechanical  designed  handle  with  cool  grip 
for  operator  comfort.  Cord  is  super  flexible  3  wire 
grounded,  heat  resistant. 

•  Large  capacity  snap-on  tray  and  sponge; 
removable  for  optional  placement. 

•  Long  life  interchangeable  tips;  iron  clad,  chrome 
plated,  pre-tinned. 

•  Designed  for  use  on  sensitive  components. 

Transient  Spikes 

Transient  spikes  caused  by  the  switching  action  of 
some  controlled  output  soldering  stations  may  be 
transmitted  to  the  workpiece  and  may  adversely 
affect  a  metal  oxide  semiconductor,  particularly  if 
the  amplitude  of  that  spike  is  in  excess  of  the  operat- 
ing voltage  of  the  device.  UNGARmatica  Tempera- 
ture Controlled  Soldering  Stations  and  Irons  suppress 
transient  spikes  to  less  than  the  5  volt  operating  voltage 
of  sensitive  MOS  devices. 

COMPLETE  STATION  SELECTION  GUIDE 
FOR  THIS                                        ORDER  COMPLETE 
TEMPERATURE STATION  PART  It 

600°F  ,..^T  UNG-50T6 

MOST 

700°F  popular)  UNG-50T7 

800°F  UNG-50T8 

LIST  PRICE:  $69.95 

OUR  PRICE:  $62.96 

Each  of  the  above  stations  include:  #70B  Power 
Supply  with  on/off  switch,  indicator  light,  and  3  wire 
power  cord;  #71  Handle  with  3  wire  heat  resistant 
secondary  cord;  #89  Tray  and  Sponge;  #72  Iron 
Holder;  Controlled  Heater  with  #87  Screwdriver 
tip  1/16."  I 

fl  a   I   I  A  n 


3UNG#80"OUNG#83   HlNG  #86    t|JNG#88  ^UNG  «93  UNG  #95 
Iron  clad,  chrome  plated,  pre-tinned  tips 

UNG  #80  Long  Screwdriver  W $2.56 

UNG  #83  Screwdriver  3/32"  $2.56 

UNG  #86  Needle  Tip  3/64"  $2.56 

UNG  #88  Long  Screwdriver  3/64" $2.56 

UNG  #93  Screwdriver  1/32"  $2.56 

UNG  #95  TIP  ADAPTER  Tip  Adapter  #95  for  spe- 
cial micro  applications.  This  Adapter  is  designed  for 
the  use  of '/«"  thread-in  Princess  Nibs.     $1.59 


PORTABLE   DESOLOERING 
TOOLS 

EDS-AS196        $21 95 


Special  purpose  SOLDAPULLT  for  low  static  work 
stations.  Deluxe  features.  Static  conductive  con- 
struction reduces  sensitive  component  damage. 


EDS  DS017 


DELUXE 


$1795 


(U3i) 


Rugged  manual  loading  tool  for  volume  desolder- 
ing.  High  vacuum.  Heavy  duty  plastic.  Fully 
enclosed  shaft  for  safety.  Plunger  lock  feature  for 
compact  storage. 


EDS-PT109 


$12 


50 


.  T '=-'J^f-r^~ 


wt    3  oz. 
(85u) 


Sturdy  tool  for  routine  desoldering.  Slim  profile, 
smooth  action,  very  low  recoil.  Plunger  lock  feature 
for  compact  storage. 


EDS-US340 


$1195 


LOW  STATIC  POTENTIAL 

Completely  portable.  One  hand  loading,  three  posi- 
tion stroke  adjustment.  Swift  vacuum  action. 


EDS-US140 


$3 


95 


tigf'f.    ' '  ?" 


Compact  manual  loading  tool.  Easy  one  hand  oper- 
ation. Adjustable  three  position  loading  stroke.  Low 
mass  plunger,  rapid  vacuum  impulse,  negligible 
recoil. 


EDS-MV124 


$5 


95 


s=^tWt^ftff^irs^t=^. 


(2L 


MINI  VACUUM  PUMP    ""(270°'> 


Designed  for  desoldering  microminiature  compo- 
nents and  fine  wiring.  Resilient  teflon  tip,  spring 
arrestor  plunger  with  cleaning  shaft. 


REPLACEMENT  TIP  FOR  SOLQAPULLTS 

CAT.  # TOOL  USED  PRICE 

EDS-SRT12 
EDS-LS197 
EDS-EC131 
EDS-ST132 


DS017,  PT109,  US140 

AS196,  US340 

MV124  (END  CAP) 

MV124  (TIP) 


$2.95 
$4.50 
$1.95 
$1.95 


SUPER-WICK™ 

DESOLDERING  BRAID 


UNG-5002 
UNG-5004 


.050" 
.100" 


$1.65 
$1.88 


ISOSTIB 


ISO-Tip  Cordless 
Soldering  Irons 


Up  to  125-150  Joints  per  charge 

5-10  Seconds  average  soldering  heat  time 

Tip  performance  up  to  50  watts  and  over  700°  F  tip 

temperature 

Built-in  work  light 

"Lock  off"  switch 

Rechargeable  battery  &  charger  included 

Cannot  over  charge 

ISO-7800     $38.95 

Fastest  recharging  iron  on  the  market. 

Recharges  fully  in  one  hour. 

ISO-7740     $28.95 

"Quick  Charge"  Recharges  completely 

in  3  to  4'/2  hours. 

ISO-7540     $25.50 

"The  Original"  Recharges  completely 

in  12  to  16  hours. 

ISO-6500     $11.95 

P.C.  Drill  attachment  with  No.  56  Bit. 


SOLDER 

The  best  for  general  wire  and  printed  circuit  solder- 
ing 60%  tin,  40%  lead  alloy,  .032"  dia.  (21  guage) 
with  triple  resincore. 

TCH1832  1  lb.  $13.41 

TCH1835  'A  lb.  $  7.44 


cffi 


COLE -FLEX  CORPORATION 


IRRADIATED  POLYOLEFIN 
SHRINKABLE  TUBING 

•  Conforms  to  MIL-I-23053B/5 

•  Shrinks  50%  (2:1  ratio)  with  only  5%  longitudinal 
shrinkage 

•  Fewer  sizes  covering  more  applications 

•  Operating  temp,  range:  -55JC  to  +135°C 

•  Dielectric  strength:  500^  per  mil 

Price  100  Ft.  (25 1 4  It  Lengths) 

Part  No.  Size    4  It.  Length     Add  "C"  to  end  of  Part  No. 


CST364XX      3/64"        $1.05  $22.36 

CST116XX       1/16"        $1.10  $23.83 

CST332XX      3/32"        $1.25  $27.04 

CST18XX         1/8"         $1.30  $28.59 

CST316XX      3/1 6"        $1.60  $34.73 

CST14XX          1/4"          $2.00  $43.94 

CST38XX          3/8"          $2.25  $48.94 

When  ordering— Replace  "XX"  with  color  code:  ColorCodes: 
BK-Black,  WH-White.  RD-Red,  YE-Yellow,  BU-Blue.  CL-Clear 

NIBBLING  TOOL 

This  Nibbling  Tool  is  perfect  for 
cutting,  trimming,  or  notching 
sheet  metal  up  to  18  guage. 
It  operates  like  a  punch  and  die 
and  also  works  well  on  alumi- 
num or  plastic  up  to  1  /16"  thick. 
We  feel  that  this  tool  can  be  a 
real  time-saver  for  our  custo- 
mers when  working  on  chassis, 
printed  circuit  boards  and  proto- 
type model  boards. 


TLX-201 


NIBBLING  TOOL 


$8.95 


PLEASE  ORDER  BY  PART  NUMBER 


BYTE  November  1980  80  —  51 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


ISDBflFY 


Model  IBAR4-6  with  6  foot  power  cord 
Model  IBAR4-15  with  15  toot  power  cord 

•  4  Standard  3-prong  plugs 

•  4  100  KHz  to  200  MHz  filters 

•  Inductively  isolated  grounds 

•  Sockets  individually  filter  isolated 

•  Each  socket  isolated  from  power  line 

•  On-Off  switch  •  Indicator  light 

•  Circuit  breaker  protected  at  15A. 

High  Voltage  Spike  Protection:  1000  A,  8/20  usee;  pro-1000 
A,  8/20  usee;  protection  from  repeated  spikes. 
Load  Handling:  1875  W  MAX.  total  load;  15A  per  socket. 
Input:  125  VAC,  15  Amps;  Standard  3-prong  plug. 

PROTECT  YOUR  INVESTMENT 
PROTECT  YOUR  DATA  WITH 


GOF-IBAR46 

LIST  PRICE    $7995 

,95 


OUR  PRICE 


$59 


POWERMATE 


(gscT) 

BY        ™  ofcursTED 

MULTIPLE  OUTLET  STRIPS 

Designed  with  GSC's  traditional  regard  for  quality, 
safety  and  long  life,  Powermate  Multiple  Outlet 
Strips  set  a  new  standard  of  excellence.  The  unique 
two-piece  extruded  Aluminum  Channel  body  is 
very  strong  and  rigid  for  maximum  wearability.  All 
Powerstrip  models  are  circuit-breaker  protected, 
CSA  and  UL  listed. 
GENERAL  SPECIFICATIONS: 
Size:  2"  W  x  1%"  H.  (Length  according  to  Model). 
Maximum  Power  Rating:  15A,  125  VAC,  60  Hz,  1875 
Watts  continuous  duty.  Outlets:  3-prong  "U" 
ground.  Case:  Anodized,  extruded  aluminum.  Pro- 
tection: Circuit  Breaker.  6'  line  cord. 


$■'■- 


■ 


MODEL 

LENGTH 

OUTLETS 

SWITCH 

LIGHT    PRICE 

G0F-9P5-6 

9" 

5 

No 

No   $15.95 

G0F-9PLS4-6 

9" 

4 

Yes 

Yes  $16.95 

G0F-12P7-6 

12" 

7 

No 

No    $17.95 

GOF-12PLS6-6 

12" 

6 

Yes 

Yes  $18.95 

G0F-24PLS8-6 

24" 

8 

Yes 

Yes  $24.95 

G0F-48PS8-6 

48" 

8 

Yes 

No   $32.95 

G0F-72PS8-6 

72" 

8 

Yes 

No    $36.95 

RACK  MOUNT  OUTLET  STRIP 


7  OUTLETS  WITH  SWITCH  &  PILOT  LIGHT 

Anodized  aluminum.  1  outlet  on  front,  6  on  back. 
Size:  19"  W  x  3%  H  x  314"  D. 
GOF-19RRPS7  -  with  6  foot  power  cord.     $34.95 


& 


ANTRONK 

Corporation  ULLISTED 

JUNCTION  BOXES 

PROTECTION   —   UL    listed    and    100%   factory 
tested  •  Reliablepush-to-resetcircuit  breaker 

•  Tough  14-guage  jacketed  3-wi re,  6  foot  cord  with 
molded  plug  •  Rugged  steel  housing  •   Electrical 
and  mechanical  grounding  throughout  unit. 
CONSTRUCTION  —  All  wiring  mechanically  fas- 
tened and  soldered  •  Multiple  keyhole  mounting 

•  Silicone  enamel  finish  •  U-ground  3-prong 
outlets. 

UTILITY  —  Models  for  every  application  •  End- 
mounted  cords  •  Full  15  amp,  125  volt  A. C.  rating. 


ANT-UL30 


ANT-UL40 


Master 
Model  Switch 
Number       &  Pilot 


Only 
3- Prong 


Switched  Switched 
Outlets  w/Pilot 
3-Prong        3-Prong 


Price 


ANT-UL30  1 
ANT-UL40 

ANT-UL60  1 

ANT-UL70  1 

ANT-UL70L  1 


—  $16.00 

—  $19.25 

—  $18.95 

—  $29.90 
6  $35.05 


Magnifier  IM  SERIES 

Perfectly  balanced  fluorescent  lighting  with  preci- 
sion magnifier  lens.  Tough  thermoplastic  shade. 
Easy  lens  removal.  New  wire  clip  design  permits 
easy  installation  and  removal  of  fluorescent  tube. 
Comes  with  plastic  shield  to  protect  tube  from  soil- 
ing and  damage. 

Colors:  Gray,  Black.  Comes  with  one  22  watt  T-9 
Circline  fluorescent  tube.  3  diopter  lens  standard. 
Shipping  weight  with  bracket:  8  lbs. 
'Reach:  Model  IM-10,  42" 


LDU-IM10A-WH 
LDU-IM10A-GY 
LDU-IM10A-BK 
LDU-IM10A-CB 
LDU-5DLNS 


WHITE 

GRAY 

BLACK 

CHOC  BROWN 

5  DIOPTER  LENS 


LIST  PRICE  OUR  PRICE 
$94.95  $69.95 
$94.95  $69.95 
$94.95  $69.95 
$94.95  $69.95 
$14.00 


MRGEONICS  LIMITED 


Protection  against  transient  over-voltage 

The  units  consist  of  a  two-gate  solid  state  circuit 
board  protected  by  a  3  amp  fuse. 
Upon  the  occurrence  of  a  transient  over-voltage 
above  6%  of  the  line  voltage,  the  components  in  the 
two-gate  system  react  in  tandem  to  allow  pico- 
second response  time  and  energy  dissipation. 
The  transient  voltage  is  thereby  suppressed  to  a 
safe  non-destructive  level. 
Product  Specifications: 

•  120  Volts,  Single-Phase,  40/70  Hz. 

•  Steady  State  Power  Dissipation:  .85W. 

•  Transient  Energy  Dissipation:  20  Joules. 

•  Max.  Peak  Current  2000  amps. 

INTERCEPTOR 

SURGE-LESS  SOCKET" 

Model  ISS  701-R 


Patent 
Pending 


SRG-ISS-701-R 

1-4  5-9      NQ         10-24 

$21.80  $20.25  <3     $18.50 

Shipping  Weight:  8  oz. 

CONTROLS . . . 

ELECTRICAL  SURGES  — 

PROTECTS  YOUR 

VALUABLE  ELECTRICAL 

EQUIPMENT 

POWER-SENTRY 


Model  PS  701-D 


Patent 
Pending 


SRG-PS-701-D 

1-4         5-9       10-24 
$31.50   $29.30  $27.00 

Shipping  Weight:  8  oz. 

COMP-ONICS 

ELECTRONIC  ATTENUATOR 

•  POSITIVE  PROTECTION  FOR  SOPHISTICATED 
EQUIPMENT 

•  MORE  ACCURATE  REPORTS 

The  Model  708  can  be  utilized  in  applications  where 
inductive  and  switching  transients  are  present  and 
jeopardize  the  electonic  circuitry  of  data  process- 
ing equipment,  computer  power  supplies  and 
numerical  controlled  machinery.  When  the  Comp- 
onics  Model  708  is  connected  harmonic  distortion 
and  transients  are  instantaneously  clamped  to  a 
safe  efficient  operating  level. 


SRG-CO  708 

10-24 
$199.75 


80  —  52 


BYTE  November  1980 


VISIT  OUR  RETAIL  STORE 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


OPEN  FRAME  POWER  SUPPLIES 


FEATURES: 

•  Designed  to  comply  with  all  applicable  UL  &  CSA 
specifications! 

•  Pluggable  IC  regulators  -  user  replaceable! 

•  Remote  sensing! 

•  Fold  back  currents  limiting! 

•  Unconditionally  guaranteed  for  two  years! 

•  Manufactured  and  serviced  in  U.S.A.  and  Canada! 

•  Industry  standard  frame  sizes  for  simplified  second 
sourcing! 


GOF  Midget  Series:  $26.00 


GOF  M-5 

GOFM-12 

GOF  M-15 

GOF  M-24 

GOF  M  2-6 

GOF  M  10-16 

GOF  M  16-24 

Dim.:  1.9"  x  4.0"  x  4  0" 

Weight:  3  lbs.  


5V/1.2A 
12  V  /  0.5  A 

15  V  /  0.5  A 
24  V  /  0.4  A 

2  to  6  V  /  1  A 
10  to  16  V  / 1  A 

16  to  24  V  /  1  A 


Basic  features  of  all  GOF  Series  units  include:  dual  AC  pri- 
mary hookup  for  115/230  VAC  connection  with  50  Hz  provision: 
oversize  lo-flux  transformers;  pluggable  IC  regulators.  85° 
computer-grade  electrolytics;  metal-can  power  transistors. 
FR-4  circuit  boards  with  2  oz.  copper  track;  remote  sensing; 
fold  back  current  limiting;  multi-surface  mounting  with 
factory-installed  captive  hardware;  industry  standard  frame 
size  for  simplified  alternative  sourcing. 

Premium  components  are  used  in  all  units  to  enhance 
reliability.  All  IC  regulators  are  pre-burned  and  checked  before 
installation  in  actual  units.  IC's  are  socket  mounted  and  user 
replaceable.  Computer-grade  capacitors  are  rated  to  85° 
operating  levels  and  are  built  to  GSC's  own  specifications  for 
low  ESR  to  enhance  long  life.  All  power  transistors  are  metal- 
can  devices  and  are  graded  for  important  parameters  by  GSC's 
own  quality  assurance  group  before  release  to  production. 


SPECIFICATIONS: 

Input 

Line  Regulation: 
Load  Regulation: 
Output  Ripple  &  Noise: 


Remote  Sensing: 

Transient  Response: 

Overload  Protection: 

Ambient  Operating  Temp.: 
Mounting: 

Cooling: 


105-125  VAC  /  210-250  VAC.  47-63  Hz. 

0.05%  over  entire  operating  range. 

0.1%  for  no  load  to  full  load  current. 

1  mV  RMS  /  3  mV  peak-to-peak 

typical. 

On  all  models  except  G0F-M  series, 

FDD100  and  GOF  2A-1D. 

No  overshoot  or  undershoot  on 

turn-on  or  turn-off. 

Foldback  current  limited,  self 

restoring. 

Continuous  duty  from  0°C.  to  60°C. 

Multi-surface  mounting  with  8-32 

captive  hardware. 

Convection  cooled. 


GOF-1  Series:  $36.00 


GOF  1-5 

5V/3A 

GOF  1-12 

12  V  /  15  A 

GOF  1-15 

15  V/ 1.2  A 

GOF  1-24 

24  V  /  0.8  A 

GOF  1—28 

28  V  /  0.5  A 

Dim:  1.62"  x 

4.00"  x  4.87" 

Weight: 

GOF-2  Series:  $57.00 


GOF  2-5 

5V/6A 

GOF  2-12 

12  V  /  3  A 

GOF  2-15 

15  V  /  2.8  A 

GOF  2-24 

24  V  /  2.3  A 

GOF  2-28 

28  V  /  2.0  A 

Dim.:  2.5"  x  4.87' 

x  5.62" 

Weight:  5  lbs. 

GOF  3X-5 

GOF3X-12 

GOF  3X-15 

GOF  3X-24 

GOF  3X-28 

Dim.:  2.75"  x  9.0"  x  4.87" 

Weight:  10  LBS. 


GOF-FDD-100  Series:  $89.00 


GOF-FD0100  24V/2A        5V/1.5A  5V/5A 

GOF-FDD101         12-15  V/ 1  A        5V/3A  12-15  V/ 1  A 

GOF-FDD102  24V/2A         5V/3A  12-15  V/ 1  A 

Dim.:  2.80"  x  10.25"  x  4.00" 
Weight:  6  LBS. 

Overvoltage  Protection  Modules 


GOF-OVF-1 
GOF-OVF-2 
G0F-0VF-3 
Weight:  1  lb. 


Below  6  A 
6  A  to  10  A 
15  A  to  25  A 


S  8.00 
$12.00 

$24.00 


G0F2A-1DA 

GOF2A-1DB 

GOF2A-1DC 

GOF2A-1DD 

Dim.:  2.53"  x  7.90"  x  4.03" 

Weight:  5  lbs. 


12-15  V/ 1.5  A 

5V/1.2A 

15  V  /  0.5  A 

24  V  /  0.4  A 


GOF  2A  IT  Series:  $115.00 

GOF2A-1T  5V/6A  12-15  V/  1 .5  A 

12-15  V/  1.5  A 
G0F2A-1TA  5V/6A  5V/0.8A 

12-15  V/  1.5  A 
G0F2A-1TB  5V/6A  5V/3A 

18-24  V/1.0  A 
G0F2A-1TC  5V/6A  18-24  V/ 1 .0  A 

12-15  V/1.5A 
GOF-FDD200         5V/3A  5V/1.0A 


GOF-5  Series:  $140.00 


GOF  5-5 

GOF  5-12 

GOF  5-15 

GOF  5-24 

GOF  5-28 

Dim.:  6.0"  x  13.25"  x  4.E 

Weight.  15  LBS. 


5  V  /  25  A 
12  V  /  16  A 
15  V  / 13  A 
24  V  /  8.1  A 

28  V  /  6.9  A 


GOF  2A-2D  Series:  $90.00 


GOF  2A-2D  A 

GOF  2A-2D  B 

GOF  2A-2D  C 

GOF  2A-2D  D 

Dim:  2.78"  x  11.00"  x  4.87" 

Weight:  10  LBS. 


12-15  V/3A 
5V/6A 
5V/6A 
5V/6A 


12-15  V  /  3  A 

5V  /6A 
12-15  V  /  3  A 

24  V  /  2.3  A 


GOF  3A  IT  Series:  $145.00 


G0F3A-1TA  5V/12A 

G0F3A-1TB  5V/12A 

GOF3A-1TC  5V/12A 

GOF3A-1TD  5V/12A 

Dim.:  4.30"  x  16.75"  x  4.88" 
Weight:  16  LBS. 


12-15  V/  3  A       12-15V/3A 

12-15V/3A  18or24V/2A 

5V/6A       12-15  V/  3  A 

18or24V/2A      12-15V/3A 


GSC  power  supplies  sell  faster  than  we  can  stock  our  shelves.  Please  plan  ahead  and  allow  4-6  weeks  for  delivery. 


PLEASE  ORDER  BY  PART  NUMBER 


BYTE  November  1980  80  —  53 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


IC  OP-AMP  COOKBOOK 

by  Walter  G.  Jung.  The  first  book  of  its  kind  to  be 
published.  Covers  not  only  the  basic  theory  of  the  IC 
op-amp  in  great  detail,  but  also  includes  over  250 
practical  circuit  applicaions,  liberally  illustrated. 
Organized  into  three  basic  parts:  introduction  to  the  IC 
op-amp  and  general  considerations,  practical  circuit 
applications,  and  appendixes  of  manufacturers' 
reference  material.  592  pages;  5%  x  8%;  softbound. 
SAM  20969 $12.95 

TTL  COOKBOOK 

byDonaldE.  Lancaster.  A  complete  and  detailed  guide 

to  transistor-transistor  logic  (TTL)— what  TTL  is,  how 

it  works,  and  how  to  use  it.  336  pages;  51/2  x  8V2; 

softbound. 

SAM  21035 $9.50 

ACTIVE-FILTER  COOKBOOK 

by  Donald  E.  Lancaster.  A  practical,  user-oriented 
treatment  of  active  filters.  Explains  what  active  filters 
are  and  how  they  work,  and  gives  detailed 
information  on  design,  analysis,  and  synthesis 
technigues.  Explores  some  interesting  applications 
for  active  filters  in  brainwave  research,  electronic 
music,  quadrature  art,  and  psychedelic  lighting.  240 
pages;  51/z  x  8%  softbound. 
SAM  21168 $14.95 

CMOS  COOKBOOK 

by  Donald  E.  Lancaster.  This  well-known  author 
presents  an  information-packed  guide  to  this  low- 
cost,  fun-to-work-with  digital  logic  family.  416  pages; 
5'/2  x  8V2;  softbound. 
SAM  21398 $10.50 

GUIDEBOOK  TO  SMALL  COMPUTERS 

by  William  Barden,  Jr.  Contains  all  the  information 
needed  for  the  prospective  buyer  of  a  small  computer 
to  make  a  wise  selection  from  21  popular  systems 
described.  128  pages;  5%  x  8V2;  softbound. 
SAM  21698 $4.95 

GUIDE  TO  CMOS  BASICS.  CIRCUITS.  S  EXPERIMENTS 

by  Howard  M.  Berlin.  Discusses  what  CMOS  devices 
are,  their  characteristics,  and  design  rules.  A  series  of 
22  useful  experiments  illustrate  many  of  the  concepts 
discussed.  224  pages;  5'/2  x  8V2;  softbound. 
SAM  21654 $8.95 

THE  Z  80  MICROCOMPUTER  HANDBOOK 

by  William  Barden.  Jr.  Gives  current  and  prospective  users  a  one- 
stop  source  to  Z-80  technology  — hardware  and  software  aspects 
and  instrumentation  problems.  304  pages;  5'/2  x  BVs;  sottbound. 

SAM  21500 $8.95 

USING  THE  6800  MICROPROCESSOR 

by  Elmer  Poe.  Acquaints  you  with  the  hardware  and  software  of  the 

"6800"  fun  machine.  176  pages;  5'A  x  8V2;  softbound 

SAM  Z15I2 16.95 

THE  CHEAP  VIDEO  COOKBOOK 

by  Donald  E.  Lancaster.  Your  complete  guide  to  super  low  cost 
alphanumeric  and  graphic  microprocessor-based  video  displays. 
256  pages;  51A  x  X8V2;  sottbound. 

SAM  21524 $5.95 

IC  CONVERTER  COOKBOOK 

by  Walter  G.  Jung.  Written  for  the  engineer,  technician,  hobbyist,  or 

student,  this  book  will  be  an  invaluable  working  guide  to  the 

understanding  and  use  of  IC  a/d  and  d/a  converters.  576  pages;  5 'A  x 

by-/,  sottbound. 

SAM  21527 $13.95 

BxolC  PROGRAMMING  PRIMER 

by  Mitchell  Waite  and  Michael  Pardee.  Covers  everything  from 
getting  organized  to  writing  a  game  program.  240  pages;  5V2  x  8V2; 
softbound. 

SAM  21586 $8.95 

THE  S  100  AND  OTHER  MICRO  BUSES 

by  Elmer  C.  Poe  and  James  C.  Goodwin.  From  discussing  the  basics 
of  buses  to  examining  in  detail  the  various  ways  to  convert  different 
bus  signals  to  S-100  signals,  this  guide  covers  it  all  144  pages;  SB  x 
8V2;  softbound. 

SAM  21587 $5.95 

MICROCOMPUTER  INTERFACING  WITH  THE  B255  PPI  CHIP 
by  Paul  F.  Goldsborough  and  Peter  R.  Rony.  Introduces  you  to  the  Intel 
8255  Programmable  Peripheral  Interface  (PPI)  through  discussion 
and  experiments.  Tells  what  the  8255  is,  where  it  fits  in  a 
microcomputer  system,  why  it  is  used,  and  how  it  is  used.  224  pages; 
5V2  x  8fe  softbound. 
,    SAM  21614 $895 


SAMS  BOOKS 


MICROCOMPUTER  PRIMER  (2nd  Edition) 

by  Mitchell  Waite  and  Michael  Pardee.  Describes  the 

newest  advances  in  microprocessor  technology 

including  information  on  VLSI  chips,  16-bit  micros, 

and  new  interface  devices.  384  pages;  5Vz  x  8%; 

softbound. 

SAM  21653 $11-95 

THE  HOWARD  W.  SAMS  CRASH  COURSE  IN 
MICROCOMPUTERS 

by  Louis  E.  Frenzel,  Jr.  Designed  to  meet  the  computer 
challenge  fo  the  '80's,  this  course  is  arranged  as  a 
series  of  lessons  in  a  unique  self-teaching  format.  The 
programmed  instruction  text  is  a  quick  and  effective 
way  to  learn  the  basics,  numbers  systems,  memories, 
architecture,  input/output  devices,  software 
programming,  and  applications.  Written  for  the  lay 
person  as  well  as  scientists,  engineers,  or 
technicians.  264  pages;  8'/z  x  11;  wirebound. 
SAM  21634 $17.50 

FUNDAMENTALS  OF  DIGITAL  COMPUTERS  (2nd  Edition) 

byBonaldD.  Spencer.  Covers  everything  fromcomputerhardwareto 
the  two  most  popular  programming  languages  — BASIC  and 
FORTRAN.  320  pages;  5%  x  8V2;  softbound. 

SAM  21534 $9.95 

DBUG:  AN  8080  INTERPRETIVE  DEBUGGER 

by  Christopher  A.   Titus  and  Jonathan  A.  Titus.  Describes  the 

operation  of  a  software  debugging  program  for  the  8080  and  how  it 

can  be  applied  to  program  development  and  testing.  11 2  pages;  5V2X 

8V2;  softbound. 

SAM  21536 $4.95 

MICROCOMPUTER-ANALOG  CONVERTER 
SOFTWARE  AND  HARDWARE  INTERFACING 

by  Titus.  Titus.  Rony,  andlarsen.  Introduces  you  to  the  concepts  and 
techniques  of  interfacing  digital  computers  to  analog  devices.  288 
pages;  5%  x  8V2:  softbound. 

SAM  21540 $9.50 

8080/8085  SOFTWARE  DESIGN,  2  Volumes 

byLarsen.  Rony.  Titus  &  Titus.  Volume  1  gives  you  an  introduction  to 

assembly  language  programming.  336  pages;  5V2  x  8%;  softbound. 

SAM  21 541 $9.50 

Volume  2  is  a  unique,  one-of-a-kind  computer  science  book  for  the 
design  engineer.  Written  in  Intel  machine  code.  352  pages;  5V2  x  BVz; 
softbound. 

SAM  21615 $995 

Two-volume  set,  SAM  21659 $17.50 

INTERFACING  AND  SCIENTIFIC  DATA  COMMUNICATIONS  EXPERIMENTS 
by  Rony.  Larsen.  Titus,  and  Titus.  Tells  you  about  the  principles  of 
transmitting  data  using  the  asynchronous-serial  data  transfer 
technique-the  most  universal  interfacing  standard  available  today. 
160  pages;  5V2  x  8V2;  softbound. 
SAM  21546 $5.95 

INTRODUCTORY  EXPERIMENTS  IN  DIGITAL  ELECTRONICS  AND  B080A 
MICROCOMPUTER  PROGRAMMING  AND  INTERFACING.  2  Books 

by  Rony.  Larsen,  and  Titus.  Completely  self-instructional  texts.  Book 
1  covers  Digital  Codes,  An  Introduction  to  Programming,  Some  8080 
Microcomputer  Instructions.  Registers  and  Register  Instructions  and 
more.  496  pages;  5V2  x  8V2;  softbound 

SAM  21550 $12.95 

Book  2  covers  What  is  Interfacing.  Device  Select  Pulses,  The  8080A 
Distinctive  Set.  and  more.  416  pages;  5%  x  8V2;  softbound. 

SAM  21551 $10.95 

Two  Volumes.  SAM  21552 $20.95 


6502  SOFTWARE  DESIGN 

by  Leo  Scanlon.  Explains  the  fundamentals  of  the 
popular  6502  integrated  circuit  currently  being  used  in 
general  purpose  microcomputers,  video  games,  and 
personal  computers.  272  pages;  5%  x  8V2;  softbound. 
SAM  21656 $10.50 

Z-80  MICROCOMPUTER  DESIGN  PROJECTS 

by  William  Barden,  Jr.  Provides  a  solid  introduction  to 
the  Z-80  and  shows  how  to  build  a  microcomputer 
called  the  EZ-80  around  this  remarkable  chip.  208 
pages;  8V2X  11;  softbound. 
SAM  21682 $12.95 

HOW  TO  PROGRAM  AND  INTERFACE  THE  6800 

by  Andrew  C.  Staugaard,  Jr.  Provides  an  in-depth 
introduction  to  microprocessors/microcomputers  in 
general  with  emphasis  on  the  Motorola  6800  micro- 
processor family.  Includes  over  30  "hands-on" 
experiments  that  demonstrate  "real-world" 
applications.  416  pages;  5Vz  x  8Vz;  softbound. 
SAM  21684 $13.95 

B085A  COOKBOOK 

by  Christopher  A.  Titus  and  Jonathan  A.  Titus.  Shows 
you  how  to  design  a  microprocessor  using  the  8085A 
microprocessor  chip  with  designs  for  several 
completely  operational  microprocessors.  352  pages; 
5%  x  8Vi;  softbound. 
SAM  21697 $12.95 

COMPUTER  GRAPHICS  PRIMER 

by  Mitchell  Waite.  Threecarefully  illustrated  chapters 
explain  perspectives,  basic  concepts,  and  graphics 
programming  in  this  newest  computer  development 
that  permits  the  creation  of  complex  drawings,  plans, 
maps,  and  schematics  on  the  screen  of  a  television 
set.  184  pages;  5%  x  8 'A;  softbound. 
SAM  21650 $12.95 

PROGRAMMING  &  INTERFACING  THE  6502.  WITH 
EXPERIMENTS 

by  Marvin  L.  De  Jong.  A  compilation  of  information 
and  programs  that  will  be  useful  to  anyone  interested 
in  using  6502-based  microcomputer  systems.  416 
pages;  51  x  8V2;  softbound.  SAM  21651  $13.95 

TV  TYPEWRITER  COOKBOOK 

by  Donald  E  Lancaster.  Gives  you  an  in-depth  coverage  of  typew 
riters  (tvt's)—  the  only  truly  low-cost  microcomputer  and  small- 
systems  display  interface.  256  pages;  5'/2  x  iW,  softbound. 
SAM  21313 $9.95 

THE  B080A  BUGBO0K  •  MICROCOMPUTER  INTERFACING 
AND  PROGRAMMING 

by  Rony,  Larsen,  and  Titus.  Gives  you  the  principles,  concepts,  and 
applications  of  an  8-bit  microcomputer  based  on  the  8080 
microprocessor  IC  chip.  416  pages;  5'/2  x  8V2;  sottbound. 

SAM  21447 $10.50 

(BUGBOOK*  is  a  registered  trademark  of  E  &  L  Instruments.  Inc., 
Derby  Connecticut  06418.1 

HOW  TO  PROGRAM  MICROCOMPUTERS 

by  William  Barden.  Jr.  A  popular,  complete  guide  to  assembly 

language  programming  of  the  Intel  8080,  Motorola  MC6800,  and  M0S 

Technology  MCS  6502  Microprocessors.  256  pages;  5V2  x  8V2; 

softbound. 

SAM  21459 $8.95 

Z-80  MICROPROCESSOR  PROGRAMMING  S  INTERFACING  -  Books  1  &  2 

by  Elizabeth  A.  Nichols,  Joseph  C.  Nichols,  and  Peter  R.  Rony.  Two 
volumes  of  laboratory-oriented  text.  Book  1  explores  Z-80  software 
and  machine  language  programming.  Book  2  addresses  Interfacing 
digital  circuits  with  the  Z-80  CPU,  PI0.  and  CTC  chips.  Both  books 
stress  learning  through  experimentation. 
Book  1;  304  pages;  5%  x  8%;  softbound. 

SAM  21609 $10.95 

Book  2;  496  pages;  5'A  x  8V2;  softbound. 

SAM  21610 $12.95 

Two  Volumes,  SAM  21611 $21.96 

TEA:  AN  8080/8085  CORESIDENT  EDITOR/ASSEMBLER 
by  Christopher  A.  Titus.  Deals  with  an  assembly  language  program 
and  provides  a  detailed  explanation  so  that  the  reader  can  effectively 
use  the  program  presented  to  prepare  assembly  language  programs. 
Includes  a  complete  assembled  listing  of  the  program  to  be  used  on  • 
the  8080-based  microcomputer.  256  pages;  6T4  x  8'A;  softbound. 
SAM  21628 $8.95 


J 


80  —  54 


BYTE  November  1980 


PLEASE  ORDER  BY  PART  NUMBER 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 


PRIORITY  ONE  ELECTRONICS 

ORDERING  INFORMATION 
•     BY  PHONE:  (800)  423-5633,  (213)  894-8171 
BY  MAIL:  16723C  Roscoe  Blvd.,  Sepulveda,  CA  91343 


MINIMUM  ORDER 


$15.00  IN  MERCHANDISE  on  prepaid  U.S.  orders.  Payment  may 
be  made  by  check,  money  order,  Mastercharge,  VISA,  and  by 
bank  transfer.  (Call  for  details.) 


OPEN  ACCOUNTS 

U.S.  ONLY.  $25.00  MINIMUM.  We  gladly  accept  purchase  orders 
Irom  government,  schools,  and  lirms  with  a  published  Al  rating 
Irom  DUNN  &  BRADSTREET.  All  orders  are  FOB  Sepulveda. 
California.  Freight  charges  will  be  prepaid  and  added  to  the 
invoice.  An  application  for  credit  is  available  upon  request. 
Please  include  payment  with  your  initial  order;  credit  applica- 
tions take  four  weeks  to  process. 


COD 


We  do  not  accept  COD  orders. 


SALES  TAX 


Add  6%  sales  tax  to  all  parts  delivered  in  California.  If  the 
merchandise  is  for  resale,  you  must  include  a  signed  standard 
resale  permit  card  (not  just  a  tax  number)  to  qualify  for 
exemption. 


PHONE  NUMBERS 


ORDER  DESK:  To  place  an  order  from  outside  CA,  AK,  HI, 
Call: 

(800)  423-5633 

SALES  DEPT :  To  place  an  order,  inquire  about  product 
availability  or  to  make  a  technical  inquiry  calf: 

(213)  894-8171 

CUSTOMER  SERVICE:  To  inquire  about  an  order,  your 
account,  or  a  missing  or  damaged  package  call: 

(213)  893-8202 


LARGE  QUANTITY 
QUOTATION  OR  BIDS 

Priority  1  Electronics  will  quote  on  quantities  in  excess  of  the 
maximum  amounts  shown  in  the  selection  guide. 


PRICES 


Prices  are  net,  FOB  Sepulveda,  California.  Prices  are  subject  to 
change  without  notice.  Due  to  the  wide  fluctuations  in  the  price 
of  precious  metals,  we  reserve  the  right  to  revise  prices  at  the 
time  of  shipment,  without  notice,  on  items  that  contain  gold  or 
silver  such  as  ICs,  connectors,  and  wire.  For  up  to  the  minute 
prices  and  for  prices  in  excess  of  those  shown,  call  PRIORITY  1 
ELECTRONICS,  (213)  894-8171.  (800)  423-5633. 


RETAIL  STORE 


Visit  our  retail  showroom  anytime  Monday-Friday9-6,  Saturday 
10-5.  You  can  pick-up  your  parts  and  brouse  through  thousands 
of  items,  many  available  only  at  the  retail  store. 


U.S.  SHIPPING 
AND  HANDLING 


All  orders  under  50  lbs.  are  shipped  via  UPS  insured  unless 
otherwise  specified.  For  orders  shipped  via  mail  (not  recom- 
mended) all  packages  to  the  U.S.,  its  possessions  and  territories 
and  Canada,  are  insured  to  $200. 00  Minimum  mall  shipping  and 
handling  charge  is  $3.00  For  insurance  coverage  above 
$200.00,  consult  your  local  postmaster  for  rates  and  fees. 
Orders  over  50  lbs.  will  be  shipped  via  motor  freight  collect.  The 
weights  listed  in  the  product  descriptions  are  approximate  fig- 
ures. To  compute  your  shipping  and  handling  charge,  consult  the 
table  in  the  next  column: 


UPS  SHIPPING  CHARGES 


For  foreign  postal  charges,  consult  the  table  below: 


Up  to 


Ground 


Air 


11b. 


S  2.50        $  3.00 


2  lbs. 


$  2.50        $  3.09 


3  lbs. 


$  2.50        $  4.07 


4  lbs. 


$  2.50 


S  5.07 


5  lbs. 


$  2.85 


6.06 


6  lbs. 


S  3.21         $  7.07 


7  lbs. 


S  3.57        $  8.06 


8  lbs. 


S  3.94        $  9.05 


9  lbs. 


S  4.29 


$10.05 


10  lbs.       S  4.66 


$11.04 


11  lbs. 


$  5.02        $12.04 


12  lbs. 


S  5.39        $13.04 


13  lbs. 


$  5.74        $14.03 


$  6.10        $15.03 


15  lbs. 


S  6.47        S16.02 


16  lbs.        $6.83        $17.02 


17  lbs. 


$  7.19        $18.02 


18  lbs. 


$  7.55        $19.01 


$  7.92 


$20.00 


20  lbs.        $8.27        $21.00 


21  lbs.        $  8.64        S22.00 


22  lbs.        $  9.00 


$23.00 


23  lbs.        $  9.36        $23.£ 


24  lbs. 


$  9.72        $24.99 


25  lbs. 


$10.08        $25.98 


Up  to 


Ground 


Air 


REGION 


First  pound 


26  lbs. 


$10.45        $26.97 


Each  additional 
pound  or  fraction 

there  of 


27  lbs. 


$10.£ 


$27.97     Africa 


$6.50 


$5.00 


28  lbs.        $11.17        $28.96     Asia 


$6.40 


$5.00 


29  lbs.        $11.53        $29.97     Australia 


$6.25 


$4.84 


30  lbs.        $11.90        $30.95     Central  America  &  Caribbean 


$3.85 


$1.85 


31  lbs.        $12.25        $31.95      Europe 


S4.50 


$2.90 


32  lbs.        $12.61        $32.95     Middle  East 


$5.70 


$3.70 


33  lbs.       $12.98        $33.95     South  America 


$5.25 


$3.25 


34  lbs.        $13.34        $34.94     'Canada  &  Mexico  —  Same  as  U.S.  Air. 


35  lbs.        $13.70        $35.93     These  rates  are  subject  to  change  with  each  USPS  rate  increase. 


36  lbs. 


$14.06        $36.93 


WARRANTY 


37  lbs. 


$14.43        $37.93 


38  lbs.        $14.78        $38.92 


39  lbs. 


$15.15 


$39.92 


40  lbs. 


$15.51 


$40.91 


41  lbs. 


$15.87        $41.91 


42  lbs.        $16.23        $42.90 


43  lbs. 


$16.59        $43.90 


44  lbs. 


$16.96        $44.90 


Since  the  Seller.  PRIORITY  I  ELECTRONICS,  does  not  control  the  use  of 
its  products,  there  are  no  express  warranties  which  extend  beyond  the 
description  ol  the  lace  hereof.  Seller  disclaims  any  implied  warranties 
ol  merchantability  or  ol  fitness  lor  any  particular  purpose.  Since  Seller 
cannot  control  the  manner  or  use  ol  its  products  alter  their  sale.  Seller 
shall  not  be  responsible  for  any  consequential  or  indirect  damages. 
Since  Seller  is  only  acting  as  a  distributor  ol  products  manufactured  by 
other  companies.  Seller  expressly  limits  its  liabilities  to  any  guarantees 
extended  by  the  manufacturer,  which  guarantees  seller  will  pass 
through  to  the  customer.  Seller  will  at  its  option,  either  replace  the 
goods  sold  or  relund  the  purchase  price. 

CLAIMS  AND  RETURNS 


45  lbs. 


$17.31 


$45.89 


46  lbs. 


$17.68 


$46.88 


47  lbs. 


$18.04        $47.89 


48  lbs. 


$18.40        $48.f 


49  lbs. 


$18.76        $49.88 


50  lbs.        $19.12        $50.86 


These  rates  are  subject  to  change  with  each  UPS  rate  increase. 


FOREIGN  ORDERS 

Minimum  $25.00  must  be  PREPAID  in  one  of  the  following  three 
ways: 

1)  Mastercharge.  VISA,  and  their  affiliated  cards.  (Don't  forget 
the  expiration  date.) 

2)  A  MAGNETICALLY  ENCODED  BANK  CHECK  or  MONEY  ORDER 
payable  in  U.S.  dollars  through  a  U.S.  bank.  If  an  uncoded  check 
or  money  order  is  sent,  a  5.00  Collection  Fee  must  be  included. 
An  unencoded  check  will  also  delay  processing  of  your  order  for 
a  minimum  of  four  to  six  weeks. 

3)  Bank  Transfer.  Call  or  write  for  details. 

NO  OTHER  METHOD  OF  PAYMENT  IS  ACCEPTABLE. 

Letters  of  credit  and  purchase  orders  from  outside  the  U.S.  will 
not  be  accepted. 

Foreign  orders  may  be  sent  via  Emery  Air  Freight  Collect  or  via 
Airmail.  All  mail  packages  to  Canada  are  insured  for  up  to 
$200.00.  All  other  foreign  mail  packages  are  not  insured.  If  you 
desire  insurance,  please  specify  Emery.  Where  postal  size  and 
weight  restrictions  make  it  impossible,  or  postal  costs  make  it 
impractical,  we  reserve  the  right  to  ship  any  package  via  Emery 
Air  Freight  Collect.  (Any  prepaid  postage  collected  would  be 
refunded.) 


Inspect  all  shipments  immediately  upon  receipt.  Missing  car- 
tons or  obvious  damage  to  cartons  should  be  noted  on  the 
delivery  receipt  before  signing.  Concealed  damage  or  loss 
should  be  reported  at  once  to  the  carrier  and  an  inspection 
requested.  All  claims  (or  shortage  or  damage  must  be  made 
within  five  days  after  receipt  of  shipment.  Claims  for  lost  ship- 
ments must  be  made  within  15  days  of  receipt  of  invoice  or  other 
notification  of  shipment.  You  must  save  damage  or  pilfered 
cartons  until  claim  is  settled.  No  goods  may  be  returned  or 
exchanged  without  a  Return  Merchandise  Authorization.  Goods 
returned  without  an  RMA  number  and/or  not  prepaid  will  be 
refused,  which  may  result  in  additional  delay,  risk  and  expense 
to  the  customer.  An  RMA  number  may  be  received  in  writing  or 
calling  the  PRIORITY  1  ELECTRONICS  Customer  Service  Depart- 
ment. Monday  thru  Friday,  9  a.m. -12  p.m.,  1  p.m. -4:30  p.m.  at 
(213)  893-8202.  If  authorized,  goods  returned  which  are  the  result 
of  customer  error  will  be  subject  to  a  minimum  of  $15.00  or  15%. 
whichever  is  greater,  restocking  charge. 

PRIORITY  1  ELECTRONICS  assumes  no  responsibility  for  any 
errors  that  may  occur  in  this  selection  guide.  Any  product 
recommendation  is  not  binding  and  shall  not  eliminate  custo- 
mer responsibility  to  check  the  suitability  of  the  products  we  sell 
for  their  particular  application.  ABSOLUTELY  NO  ADJUSTMENT 
CAN  BE  MADE  ON  PARTIALLY  ASSEMBLED  KITS. 

•  1980  Priority  1  Electronics.  All  rights  reserved,  no  part  shall  be 
reproduced  without  written  permission  from  Priority  1 
Electronics. 


Special  thanks  to  all  our  friends  in  the  industry 
whohavehelped   to  make  us  number  £o*. 

Ditto,  Larry,  PA  &  MA,  Terry,  Tom  &  Dave,  Scotl  &  Gregg, John, 
Ray,  Willis  &  Fred,  Steve  and  one  guy  who  tried,  Jim  Nelson. 


ORDER  TOLL  FREE  (800)  4235633 


BYTE  November  1980 


80  —  55 


CA,  AK,  HI  (213)  894-8171  •  OUTSIDE  CA  (800)  423-5633 


r  CUSTOMER  NUMBER  ^ 

THIS  IS  THE  NUMBER  THAT  APPEARS  DIRECTLY 
s  ABOVE  YOUR  NAME  ON  PREVIOUS  ORDERS. 


16723C  ROSCOE  BLVD.,  SEPULVEDA,  CA  91343 


ORDER  NUMBER 


PRIORITY  lONEI  ELECTRONICS 

PLEASE  TYPE  OR  PRINT  -  DO  NOT  WRITE  IN  SHADED  AREAS. 


s* 
o 

L 
D 

T 
O 


S*' 
H 


T 
O 


*On  Credit  Card  Orders  this  must  be  the  EXACT  name  as  it  appears  on 
card  and  the  address  where  the  Bank  mails  your  monthly  statement. 


•IF  SAME  AS  "SOLD  TO",  WRITE  "SAME". 


PURCHASE  ORDER* 

SHIP  VIA    GUPS    DUPSBLUE(AIR) 
nFMFRYAIRCOl       nOTHFR 

FOB 

Sepul 

TFRMSnChprkNn                                  Fnclnspd 

□  VISA       DMASTERCHARGEi  □  Company  P.O.  Attached 

□TAXABLE 
□  EXEMPT 

□  VISA 

□  M.C. 

CARD« 

EXPIRES 

AUTH/PPD  AMT 

DATE 

0      PHONE                                                         EXT.             /V 
A                                                                                                   G 

Y    (            )                                              T    ( 

) 

EXT. 

SIGNATURE 

QTY. 
ORDERED 


PART  NUMBER 


DESCRIPTION 


WEIGHT 


UNIT  PRICE 


AMOUNT 


10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15. 


ORDER  BY  PART  NUMBERS  EXACTLY  AS  SHOWN  IN  SELECTION  GUIDE 


_  CHECK  HERE  IF  YOU  HAVE 

□  MOVED  SINCE  YOUR  LAST  ORDER. 

CHECK  HERE  IF  THIS  IS 
UYOUR  FIRST  ORDER  FROM  US. 

SEND 
□  CATALOG 

NOTES  &  SPECIAL  INSTRUCTIONS 

COMMENTS 

DATE  SHIPPED 

INVOICED 

EB 

CR.CK.AMT. 

P.O.  NOS. 

PB 

LOC. 

D&B. 

TOTAL 
WEIGHT 


Sub-Total 
(minimum  $15.00) 

6%  Sales  Tax  (Calif.  Only) 

Shipping 

(consult  table  on  reverse) 

(Minimum  $2.50) 


TOTAL  $ 


80  —  56 


BE  SURE  TO  READ  THE  ORDERING  INFORMATION  ON  THE  REVERSE  SIDE. 

BYTE  November  1980 


IMflD^^ 


World's  fastest  troubleshooter 

A  DMM  SO  UNIQUE ...  SO  VERSATILE . . .  vari-pitch 

**JrZ.  .L-Z~.!l -» \T.Tl  xl.ml^Z, w~  — >! mbmvV-JL  v JL  Not  iust  a  beeP ■  •  ■ not  Just  instant  ohms.  MX333s  VARI- 

SO  SUPERIOR  WE  WERE  TEMPTED  TO  PITCH  audible  tone  changes  frequency  proportionate  to  the 

mii  a     if  eAueTllllir  tSi  CE  reading  so  you  can  literally  troubleshoot  by  ear!  The  higher  the 

vALfc  I  I    wvmB  I  nl«U  ELSE  pjtcrl,  the  higher  the  reading.  No  need  to  take  your  eyes  off  the 

We  believe  the  MX333,  with  the  VARI-PITCH™  and  LOGI-TRAK™  Pr°be  °r  wait  f°r  a  r?,adout t0  sett'e,  vari-pitch  responds 

,  ,    ....         *__»»■_    _     •   _» )■ t„_» i »~,i-..  \t  instant  y,  proportional  y  and  accurate  y  in  a    votage,  current, 

functions,  to  be  the  greatest  time  savmg  tool  in  electronics  today.  It  resistance  and  diode  test  ranges,  it  even  provides  analog-like 

has  all  the  functions,  ranges  and  accuracy  you  expect  from  the  best  audible  response  to  variations  for  quick  and  easy  adjustment 

along  with  the  two  additional  features  which  will  save  enormous  and  nulling. 
amounts  of  troubleshooting  time.  And  the  MX333's  202  range  gives  i  OGI  TRAIT  tc 

you  10  milliohm  resolution  for  those  critical  low  resistance  tests.  o„Jt^!kJ  «_ri^!_Jl?_^^LL<-r-,-„-_  <™.~  -,-k_ 

i,   ._  «.^        ■       ..„„    _         -..,,,  _      •                         i          <-,*  Combines  the  features  of  a  high  performance  logic  probe 

Both  MX  series  DMM  s  have  0.1%  basic  accuracy  plus  a  10A  range,  and  voltmeter  in  one  convenient  function.  Use  any  standard  10:1 

plus  the  intelligent  case  styling  that  has  the  size  of  a  hand  held,  but  high  frequency  scope  probe  to  find  high  and  low  logic  levels 

the  shape  of  a  better  idea.  With  either  unit  you  get  more  performance  and  positive  or  negative  pulses  as  narrow  as  5  nsec  without 

per  dollar  than  with  competitive  models.  And  the  MX333  gives  you  taking  your  eyes  off  the  circuit!  The  vari-pitch  output  tells  it 

more,  much  more,  than  you  ever  thought  possible!  Effort  cutting  «"•  ^nd   unlike  ordinary  logic  probes,  LOGI-TRAK  spots 

• ,'.»!___  ,u~t  ...in  --..-.,-..  i._..--  *,,,  *»,„  „™.wi  ground  shorts,  supply  shorts,  opens,  marginal  or  ambiguous 

innovations  that  will  save  you  hours  by  the  second!  «ogic  states  and  $£_„-_,  pJses  instantly!  Then,  without 

changing  anything  but  the  direction  of  your  glance,  it's  easy  to 
verify  actual  voltage  on  the  digital  readout! 

UNIVERSAL  SIZE  AND  SHAPE 

MX333  and  MX331  are  the  first  digital  multimeters  designed 

from  the  gound  up  for  LCD  technology.  The  display's  45  °  angle 

is  easy  to  read  at  any  viewing  point;  from  directly  above  to 

Jjr     -AS- QUUrf- *.  MA__C  straight  on.  Powered  by  a  single  9  volt  battery,  their  compact 

•-'""'""'■ "~"'  size  and   unique  shape  make  than  ideal  for  all   portable 

~ I^^R       V  •W4fTT-:  HB8       applications. 

S^^^ML        ■_  —M-i  i-li—n       ~  ""'*  Mil ii .in  No  matter  how  you  use  a  multimeter;  in  your  hand,  clipped 

to  your  belt  or  on  a  shelf,  no  other  DMM  is  as  convenient  as  the 
^t__B_  ll    X_-_-_-__-_---__-----__-l  Hickok  MX333  or  MX331!  And,  with  VARI-PITCH,  MX333  is 

really  out  of  sight  in  performance. 

CONDENSED  SPECIFICATIONS:  MX331  and  MX333 
DC  VOLTS  (5  RANGES):  220mV  to  1000V  full  scale,  RESOLU- 
TION: 0.1  mV,  ACCURACY:  ±0.1%  +  1  digit,  INPUT  IMPE- 
ii     MMi  is;       P4\\\«  -  DANCE:  10MO.  OVERLOAD  PROTECTION:  1000V  DC  or  peak 

^3^%TSf    ■&        ]        tf^lmll  *""'**»       *"         AC  +  up  to  6kV  transients  all  ranges. 

™  »_»__.  .W^tfl.ftWIl  "■••,,"'-         AC  VOLTS  (5  RANGES):  200mV  to  1000V  full  scale,  RESOLU- 

TION: 0.1  mV,  ACCURACY:  ±1%  +  2digits,  45  Hz  to  1kHz,  ±5%  + 
5  digits  to  5kHz,  INPUT  IMPEDANCE:  10MH,  OVERLOAD 
PROTECTION:  1000V  DC/750  RMS. 

RESISTANCE  (7  RANGES):  20n  to  20MI1  full  scale 
except  no  20(1  range  on  MX331,  RESOLUTION: 
0.01  n  on  MX333, 0.1  n  on  MX331 ,  ACCURACY:  0.1  % 
+  1  digit  except  0.2%  on  200O,  1%  on  20Mn,  and  3% 
on  20fl  ranges.  OVERLOAD  PROTECTION:  500V 
DC  on  RMS  all  ranges  plus  2A  fuse  on  20fl  range. 
TEST  VOLTAGE:  Low  power,  0.25V  max  of  full 
scale. 

DIODE  TEST  (1  RANGE):  Measures  forward  vol- 
tage drop  across  diode  and  transistor  junctions  at 
2mA  nominal  current. 

AC/DC  CURRENT  (5  RANGES):  2mA  to  10A  full 
scale,  RESOLUTION:  1MA,  ACCURACY:  ±1.2%  +  1 

H  —vHiK  digit  DC,  ±2.5%  +  1  digit  AC,  OVERLOAD  PRO- 

.   n«   f|V    WKM  HpfK  J__— m  TECTION:  250V  @2A  all  ranges  except  10A,  max 

\  M  V\  \  \\    •■■■■■ l^ii,l"!5T^^  15A  on  10A  range. 

I'JVJU\      VAVCJS2JC  »*ac-333  -*  GENERAL:  Dimension*:  2.2  x  6.7  x  6  in.  (5.6  x  17  x 

-n     «_n  awn  fflWKrt  s«i  MJ  «m_         15-2  cm);  Weight:  22  oz.  (.7kg);  Power:  9V  battery 

200ft     «a     Wft   a""1     m      10A  ^j-       ■■        (incl.)  or  Hickok  AC  adapter;  Battery  Life;  200  Hrs. 

200mv     2J!n      »i     wo"*    !<™rt    *""  ,   "nr       u      mm   iW      _V         typical;   Temperature:   0-50°C   operating,   -35   to 

°~      ,mxt  7/////////////,   m   mmmm  oc  ,        ,--      W  +60°C   storage.    INCLUDES:    Deluxe   safety   test 

*      ^  '/WMWi  .        ,        ,         ■»  leads,  battery  manual  and  belt  clip. 

Ill         i         I         I  <        *        '        l  IV    M^VM,     nMM $179.00 

'  ,^^MBa-'""*|g  1   HIC-MX333     DMM  w/VARI-PITCH  of  LOGI-TRAK 235.00 

HIC-SP+7       10:1  Probe  for  LOGI-TRAK 33.50 

HIC-CC+4      Carrying  Case 15.00 

.,..,..,-.,.    ...  HIC-BC+3       ACAdapter 8.00 

______ —  -— —  --W  HIC-VD+14     RFProbe 33.50 

HICKOK 


BYTE  November  1980       80  —  CV  III 


we  see  the  s-100 

a  little  differently. 

WE  SEE  THE  S-100  AS  AN  INDUSTRY  STANDARD. 

Systems  builders  who  value  performance,  price, 
reliability  and  IEEE  compatibility  are  getting  some  good 
news  from  CCS. 

The  IEEE-certified  S-100  is  a  real  bus,  for  a  very  real, 
very  dynamic  industry. 

And  CCS  S-100  components  deliver  industrial  quality  at 
industrial,  mass-produced  prices.  High  performance  plus  full 
IEEE  compatibility. 

There  is  no  greater  value  for  the  quality  conscious 
system  designer.  On  any  bus.  From  any  manufacturer. 


2422  Disk  Controller.   Single 

and  double  density  controller 
for  up  to  four  s%"  or  8"  single- 
sided  drives,  or  two  double-sided 
drives.  Shipped  with  cp/m  2.2, 
the  controller  reads  and  writes 
IBM-standard  single  density. 
Automatically  determines  disk 
density  -  single  or  double.  Sup- 
ports PerSci  auto  eject,  plus 
fast-seek  for  voice  coil  systems. 

2016  16K  Static  RAM.  Fully 
buffered  board  features  2114 
static  RAMs  for  +5v  operation. 
Bank  select  available  by  bank 
port  or  bank  byte,  for  system 
expansion  beyond  64K.  Address- 
able in  4K  blocks  at  4K  bound- 
aries. LED  indicators  for  board 
selection  and  bank  selection. 
Available  in  200,  300,  or  450  nsec 
versions.  All  versions  support 
4MHz  operation  with  no  wait 
states. 


2810  Z80  CPU  Board.   Capable 

CPU  for  S-100  Systems  operates 
at  2  or  4MHz,  is  fully  Altair/lmsai 
compatible,  z-80  monitor  is 
available  separately,  includes 
auto  addressing  to  4K  bound- 
aries, plus  a  serial  port  for  serial 
devices,  including  terminals  and 
printers.  Supports  both  front- 
panel  operation  and  power-on 
memory  jump,  plus  wait-state 
generation  for  slower  memories. 
Compatible  with  proposed  ieee 
s-100  standards. 

2032A  32K  Static  RAM.   Fast 

static  memory  operates  with- 
out wait  states  at  a  full  4MHz. 
Supports  full  and  partial  bank 
select,  for  expansion  beyond 
64K.  Addressable  in  8K  blocks  at 
8K  boundaries.  Address  and  data 
lines  are  fully  buffered,  and 
there  are  no  DMA  restrictions. 


2065  64K  Dynamic  RAM.  Trans 
parent  refresh  with  fail-safe 
extended  wait  state  capability. 
250ns  access  time,  for  4MHz 
operation  with  no  wait  states. 
Bank  select  (fully  Cromemco 
compatible)  for  systems  of  up 
to  51 2K.  And  any  16K  block  can 
be  independently  addressed. 


2200A  Mainframe.   ROCk  solid, 
heavy  gauge  cabinet  includes 
12-slot,  actively  terminated 
S-100  motherboard,  fan,  and 
power  supply.  Power  supply  fea- 
tures 105, 115,  or  125  volt  AC 
input  power,-  provides  +8vDC 
at  20  amps,  ±16vDC  at  4  amps, 
includes  convenient,  front 
mounted,  lighted  reset  switch. 


California 
Computer 
Systems 


FROM 

PRIORITY  C  J  ELECTRONICS 


■  CV  IV       BYTE  November  1980 


The  first  personal  computer 
far  under  $200. 


The  Sinclair  ZX80. 
A  complete  computer- 
only  $199.95  plus  $5.00  shipping. 

Now,  for  just  $199.95,  you  can  get  a 
complete,  powerful,  full-function  computer, 
matching  or  surpassing  other  personal 
computers  costing  several  times  more. 

It's  the  Sinclair  ZX80,  the  computer  that 
independent  tests  prove  is  faster  than  all 
previous  personal  computers.  The  compu- 
ter that  "Personal  Computer  World"  gave 
5  stars  for  'excellent  value.' 

The  ZX80  cuts  away  computer  jargon 
and  mystique.  It  takes  you  straight  into 
BASIC,  the  most  common,  easy-to-use 
computer  language. 

You  simply  take  it  out  of  the  box,  con- 
nect it  to  your  TV,  and  turn  it  on.  And  if 
you  want,  you  can  use  an  ordinary  cassette 
recorder  to  store  programs.  With  the  man- 
ual in  your  hand,  you'll  be  running  programs 
in  an  hour.  Within  a  week,  you'll  be  writing 
complex  programs  with  confidence. 

All  for  under  $200. 

Sophisticated  design  makes  the 
ZX80  easy  to  learn,  easy  to  use. 

We've  packed  the  conventional  computer 
onto  fewer,  more  powerful  LSI  chips — 
including  the  Z80A  microprocessor,  the 
faster  version  of  the  famous  Z80.  This 
makes  the  ZX80  the  world's  first  truly  port- 
able computer  (6V2"  x  8V2"  x  V/2"  and  a  mere 
12  oz.).  The  ZX80  also  features  a  touch 
sensitive,  wipe-clean  keyboard  and  a 
32-character  by  24-line  display. 

Yet,  with  all  this  power,  the  ZX80  is  easy 
to  use,  even  for  beginners. 


Your  course  in  computing. 

The  ZX80  comes  complete  with  its  own 
128-page  guide  to  computing.  The  manual 
is  perfect  for  both  novice  and  expert.  For 
every  chapter  of  theory,  there's  a  chapter 
of  practice.  So  you  learn  by  doing— not  just 
by  reading.  It  makes  learning  easy,  exciting 
and  enjoyable. 

The  ZX80's  advanced  design 
features. 

Sinclair's  4K  integer  BASIC  has  perform- 
ance features  you'd  expect  only  on  much 
larger  and  more  expensive  computers. 
These  include: 

■  Unique  'one  touch'  entry.  Key  words 
(RUN,  PRINT,  LIST,  etc.)  have  their  own 
single-key  entry  and  are  stored  as  a  single 
character  to  reduce  typing  and  save 
memory  space. 

■  Automatic  error  detection.  A  cursor 
identifies  errors  immediately  to  prevent 


entering 

programs  with  faults. 

■  Powerful  text  editing  facilities. 

■  Also  programmable  in  machine  code. 

■  Excellent  string  handling  capability — up 
to  26  string  variables  of  any  length. 

■  Graphics,  with  22  standard  symbols. 

■  Built-in  random  number  generator  for 
games  and  simulations. 

Sinclair's  BASIC  places  no  arbitrary  re- 
strictions on  you— with  many  other  flexible 
features,  such  as  variable  names  of  any 
length. 

And  the  computer  that  can  do  so  much 
for  you  now  will  do  even  more  in  the  fu- 
ture. Options  will  include  expansion  of  IK 
user  memory  to  16K,  a  plug-in  8K  floating- 
point BASIC  chip,  applications  software, 
and  other  peripherals. 
Order  your  ZX80  now! 

The  ZX80  is  available  only  by  mail  from 
Sinclair,  a  leading  manufacturer  of  consumer 
electronics  worldwide.  We've  already  sold 
tens  of  thousands  of  units  in  Europe,  so 
demand  will  be  great. 

To  order  by  mail,  use  the  coupon  below. 
But  for  fastest  delivery,  order  by  phone 
and  charge  to  your  Master  Charge  or  VISA. 
The  ZX80  is  backed  by  a  30-day  money- 
back  guarantee,  a  90-day  limited  warranty 
with  a  national  service-by-mail  facility,  and 
extended  service  contracts  are  available  for 
a  minimal  charge. 


Price  includes  TV  and  cassette  connectors, 
AC  adaptor,  and  128-page  manual. 

All  you  need  to  use  your  ZX80  is  a  standard  TV 
(color  or  black  and  white).  The  ZX80  comes  complete 
with  connectors  that  easily  hook  up  to  the  antenna 
terminals  of  your  TV.  Also  included  is  a  connector  for 
a  portable  cassette  recorder,  if  you  choose  to  store 
programs.  (You  use  an  ordinary  blank  cassette.) 


The  ZX80  is  a  family  learning  aid.  Children  10  and 
above  will  quickly  understand  the  principles  of 
computing — and  have  fun  learning. 

Phone  orders  only:  (203)  265-9171.  We'll 
refund  the  cost  of  your  call. 
Information:  General  and  technical— (617) 
367-1988,  367-1909,  367-1898,  367-2555. 
Phones  open  Monday-Friday  from  8  AM  to 
8  PM  EST. 


inclair 


Sinclair  Research  Ltd.,  475  Main  St., 
P.O.  Box  3027,  Wallingford,  CT  06492. 


BY-11-0 

To:  Sinclair  Research  Ltd.,  475  Main  St.,  P.O.  Box  3027,  Wallingford,  CT  06492. 

Please  send  me ZX80  personal  computer(s)  at  $199.95*  each  (US  dollars),  plus  $5 

shipping.  (Your  ZX80  may  be  tax  deductible.) 

I  enclose  a  check/money  order  payable  to  Sinclair  Research  Ltd.  for  $ 

Name 


Address. 
City 


State_ 


.Zip_ 


Occupation: 

Intended  use  of  ZX80:. 


-  Age: . 


Have  you  ever  used  a  computer?  □  Yes  □  No. 

Do  you  own  another  personal  computer?  □  Yes  □  No.    'For  Conn,  deliveries,  add  sales  tax. 


Circle  49  on  inquiry  card. 


Buy  By  Mail 
and  Save! 


COMPUTERS 


INTERTEC  SuperBrain®    32K  .  $2495 

64K  RAM,  List  $3345 $2695 

64K  Quad,  List  $3995 $3395 

NORTH  STAR  Horizon  I® 

16K  D.D.  Kit $1259 

32K  D.D.  Kit $1579 

32K  Assembled,  List  $2695  ....  $2149 

Horizon  2  32K  DD,  Assm.,  $3095  $2439 
32K  QD,  Assm.,  List  $3595  ....  $2859 


CROMEMCO  Z-2,  List  $995  ...  $  829 

System  2,  64K,  List  $3990 $3179 

System  3,  64K,  List  $6990 $5479 

ATARI®    400,  List  $630 $  489 

800,  List  $1080 $  839 

TI-99/4,  List  $1 150 $  985 

DISK  SYSTEMS 

THINKER  TOYS®    Discus  2D  .  $  939 

Dual  Discus  2D $1559 

Discus  2 +  2,  List  $1549 $1288 

PRINTERS  &  TERMINALS 
PAPER  TIGER  IDS-440 $  849 

with  Graphics  Option $  949 

CENTRONICS  730-1,  List  $995  .  $  639 

737,  List    $995 $  849 

T.I.  810 $1575 

INTERTUBE  II,  List  $995 $  729 

PERKIN-ELMER  Bantam  550  ..  $  789 

TELEVIDEO  912C $779 

920C $  839 

HAZELTINE  1420 $  839 

1500 $  879 

SOROC  120 $  745 

FLOPPY  DISKS  SPECIAL 

5Vt"  Box  of  10  ONLY  $29.95 

(specify  TRS-80,  North  Star,  SuperBrain,  etc.) 

Most  items  in  stock  for  immediate  delivery.  Factory  sealed  cartons, 
w/full  factory  warranty.  NYS  residents  add  appropriate  sales  tax 
Prices  do  not  include  shipping.  VISA  and  Master  Charge  add  3%. 
COD.  orders  require  25%  deposit.  Prices  subject  to  change  without 
notice. 

Computers 
Wholesale 

P.O.  Box  144  Camillus,  NY  13031 
S     (315)  472-2582 


loads  all  parameters  for  the  color 
memories  at  the  indexed  color  code  of 
2.  The  hue,  intensity,  and  saturation 
are  loaded  at  this  address  with  the 
data  5,  7,  and  2,  respectively. 

In  order  to  exploit  the  full 
capabilities  of  the  frame  buffer,  we 
must  have  some  method  to  access  in- 
dividual elements  of  the  buffer.  And 
we  must  have  the  capability  of 
loading  all  or  portions  of  the  frame 
buffer  in  order  to  support  selective 
filling  and  erasing.  If  we  do  not  pro- 
vide this  function,  it  becomes  very 
difficult  to  produce  solid  colored  or 
shaded  images,  which  is  one  of  the 
important  advantages  of  a  raster-scan 
display.  Furthermore,  if  we  allow  the 
host  to  directly  load  individual 
elements  of  the  frame  buffer,  we  can 
produce  a  full  frame  that  implements 
algorithms  such  as  depth  queuing  and 
shading  that  cannot  be  performed 
otherwise  by  the  display  processor  at 
the  pixel  level.  Thus  it  is  apparent 
that  we  do  need  some  sort  of  load- 
pixel  primitive.  In  order  to  increase 
the  utility  of  this  primitive,  however, 
we  must  introduce  the  concept  of  the 
viewport. 

Through  the  graphics-display 
registers,  we  can  define  a  rectangular 
area  on  the  display  by  a  pair  of  X,Y 
coordinates  (the  left  and  right  X 
boundary  and  the  top  and  bottom  Y 
boundary).  Thus,  rather  than  loading 
the  full  screen,  we  can  reference  the 
area  bounded  by  a  viewport.  This 
feature  permits  us  to  load  areas  of  the 
display  or  even  to  mask  portions  of 
the  display.  To  further  increase  the 
generality  of  this  primitive,  we  must 
also  permit  loading  a  single  pixel. 
This  feature  allows  us  to  change  the 
color  of  the  point  we  are  currently  at. 
We  could  do  the  same  with  the  MOV 
primitive,  but  this  instruction  would 
be  shorter.  Finally,  we  can  define  our 
load-pixel  primitive  as: 


LPIX  R,C„..C„ 


where: 


R  =  reference 
Viewport,  or  X,  Y) 
C,  =  color  data 


(Full     frame, 


Along  with  this  primitive,  we  must 
add  that  a  predefined  order  of  filling 
the  pixels  must  be  maintained,  such 
as  left  to  right,  bottom  to  top.  For  ex- 
ample, the  primitive: 


LPIXF,0,0,0,0... 


loads  the  entire  display  with  a  single 
color  0. 

The  next  primitives  we  need  do  not 
actually  produce  an  image,  but  sup- 
port the  previous  primitives.  First, 
since  we  have  assumed  the  existence 
of  graphics-display  registers,  we  must 
allow  the  host  to  load  the  registers 
with  a  value.  In  this  work,  we  do  not 
specify  the  types  or  numbers  of 
graphics-display  registers,  since  they 
may  vary  from  system  to  system. 
However,  certain  registers  will  be 
consistent,  such  as  vector  type  and 
current  X  and  Y  position. 
Mnemonically,  our  load-register 
primitive  can  be  represented  as: 


LREG,  N,V 


where: 


N  =  register  name  or  number 
V  =  value  to  be  loaded 

For  example,  the  primitive: 

LREG  X,4096 

loads  the  X  register  with  the  value 
4096. 

Since  some  of  these  registers  con- 
tain status  information,  it  is  impor- 
tant that  the  host  be  able  to  read  back 
the  value  in  the  register.  For  example, 
if  the  display  processor  supports  a 
light  pen,  it  may  be  necessary  for  the 
host  to  read  back  the  X  and  Y  posi- 
tion coordinates.  Mnemonically,  our 
read-register-primitive  can  be 
represented  as: 


RREGN 


where: 


N  =  register  name  or  number 
For  example,  the  primitive: 
RREGY 


reads  the  contents  of  the  Y  register 
and  returns  the  value  to  the  host. 

Since  we  have  assumed  the  ex- 
istence of  subroutines,  there  must  be 
some  way  of  loading  subroutines  in 
the  display-processor  memory:  thus 
we  need  a  load-subroutine  primitive. 
We  obviously  need  the  parameters  of 

Text  continued  on  page  276 
Circle  50  on  inquiry  card.  > 


WordPro™ 
Word  Processing  Software 

Turn  your  Commodore  CBM/PET  computer 
into  a  highly  sophisticated  word  processing  system 


Everyone  expected  it  would  happen 
sooner  or  later. .  .with  WordPro  it 
already  has!  Now  all  the  marvelous 
benefits  of  an  advanced  stand-alone 
wordprocessor  are  available  with  the 
WordPro  series  of  software  and  the 
systems  they  create. 

If  you've  already  been  shopping  for 
software  in  the  crowded  word- 
processing  marketplace,  you've 
probably  determined  the  features 
you  really  want.  You'll  find 
WordPro  has  them,  and  more. 

And  if  you  haven't  begun  to  shop 
yet,  we  urge  you  to  compare, 
because  only  by  comparison  will 
you  fully  appreciate  how  complete 
and  sophisticated  WordPro 
software  really  is. 

WORDPRO  GIVES  YOU 
THREE  LEVELS  TO  CHOOSE 
FROM 


WORDPRO  SOFTWARE  IS 
LOADED  WITH  THE 
LATEST  INNOVATIONS 

Sophisticated  systems  programmed 
with  leading  edge  wordprocessing 
features,  WordPro  is  a  series  of 
programs  designed  specifically  for 
use  with  the  Commodore 
CBM/  PET  computers,  peripherals 
and  compatible  typewriter  quality 
printers. 


WHAT  MAKES  WORDPRO 
THE  BEST? 

Our  research  has  shown  that  while 
many  wordprocessing  packages 
have  comparable  features  to 
WordPro,  none  can  surpass 
Wordpro's  EASE  OF  USE  AND 
FLEXIBILITY.  Wordpro  operators 
need  not  be  familiar  with  computer 
commands  or  functions.  WordPro  is 
easy  to  learn  for  anyone  with 
ordinary  typing  skills. 


WORDPRO  1  is  ideal  for 
hobbyists,  students  and 
organizations  who  can  benefit  from 
the  advantages  of  a  basic 
wordprocessor  without  the  program 
refinements  of  a  comercially 
oriented  system.  WordPro  1  is 
recommended  for  use  with  the 
CBM/  PET  8/  16K,  C2N  cassette 
and  interfaced  printer. 


WORDPRO  3  converts  the 
CBM/2001  32K  computer  into  a 
highly  sophisticated  40-column 
screen  wordprocessor.  This  program 
incorporates  the  advanced  features 
considered  important  to  effective 
wordprocessing,  including  nearly 
every  entering,  editing,  memory  and 
printing  feature  available  today. 
WordPro  3  is  recommended  for  use 
with  CBM/PET  32K  (40-column) 
computer,  CBM  Dual  Disk  Drive, 
and  a  properly  interfaced  printer. 


WORDPRO  4  has  it  all!  With  this 
program,  you  will  have  everything 
you  could  want  from  a 
wordprocessor. .  .and  then  some. 
WordPro  4  includes  every  feature 
found  on  WordPro  3,  but  with  the 
added  advantage  of  an  80-column 
display  screen.  The  80-column 
display  simplifies  text  editing  and 
makes  entering  text  in  columnar 
formats  effortless.  And  with  a  few 
simple  keystrokes,  you'll  be  able  to 
visualize  on  the  screen  exactly  how 
your  document  will  look  prior  to 
printing  it  out.  WordPro  4  is 
designed  for  use  with  the 
Commodore  CBM  8032  computer, 
CBM  Dual  Disk  Drives,  and  a 
properly  interfaced  printer. 


Professional  Software  Inc. 

166  Crescent  Rd.,  Needham,  MA  02194 
(617)  444-5224 

'WordPro  Dealer  Inquires  Invited* 

WordPro  was  developed  by  Steve  Punter  ot  Pro-Micro  Software  Ltd.,  and  Is  marketed  exclusively  by 

Professional  Software  Inc. 

WordPro  Is  a  registered  trademark  of  Professional  Software  Inc.  CBM  Is  a  registered  trademark  of 
Commodore  Business  Machines. 


Now  With  Multi-Key  Capabilities  For  Apple  &  Pet 

Since  KRAM™  was  introduced  in  1979  it  has  fast  become  known  as  the 
users.  Now,  after  hundreds  of  requests  we  have  added  MULTI-KEY, 


IBM/370  users  have  VSAM  (Virtual  Storage  Access  Method)  to 
provide  fast,  flexible  keyed-access  to  their  data.  Now  SUPER 
KRAM   (Keyed  Random  Access  Method),  from  United 
Software  of  America,  gives  Apple  and  Pet  users  the  same 
flexibility,  substantially  increasing  the  processing  power  of  the 
Apple  and  Pet. 

Until  SUPER  KRAM  the  only  "random  access"  capability  in 
the  Apple  and  Pet  consisted  of  a  crude  form  of  "relative 
record"  processing.  While  this  is  usable  for  very  simple 
applications,  it  falls  far  short  of  the  needs  of  today's  business 
and  analytical  applications.  Using  SUPER  KRAM  records 
may  be  processed  by  any  one  of  multiple  "Key"  values,  which 
may  consist  of  any  kind  of  data:  numbers,  letters,  special 
characters,  etc.  Even  Apples's  long-awaited  DOS  3.3  doesn't 
have  anything  like  this!! 


KRAM™  2.0  Regular  Features 

•  Written  in  6502  machine  code 
Basic  compatible 

•  Create/Open  a  dataset 

•  Put  record  by  key 

•  Add  &  delete  records  by  key 

•  Get  any  record  by  Full/Partial  key 

•  Access  Dy  any  key  in  as  little  as 
.2  sec.  (.1  sec.  with  Corvus  disk) 

•  Supports  multiple  disks 

•  Read  next  or  previous  record 

•  Dynamic  space  allocation 

•  Dynamic  space  reclamation 

•  Dynamic  index  compression 

•  Files  never  need  reorganization 

•  Compatible  with  language  systems 

KRAM™  2.0  Only  $99.95 


APPLE  /  ATARI 

"Precise,  humanized,  well  documented  an  excellent  value"  are  the  applauds  being  given 


3-D 

ANIMATED 

COLOR 

GRAPHICS 


APPLE  WORLD 

The  Program  made  famous  on  National  TV! 


by  Paul  Lutus 


Written  in  machine  code. 


Look  for  the  RED-WHITE-BLUE 
United  Software  Display  at  your  local 
computer  dealer,  or  send  check  or 
moneyorder,  plus  $3.00  shipping  to: 

UNITED 

SOFTWARE 

OF 

750  3RD  Avenue,  AMERICA 

New  York  NY  10017 

(212)  682-0347  Telex  640055 

DEALER  INQUIRIES  INVITED 

KRAM  is  a  trade  mark  of  United  Software  of  America. 


APPLE  WORLD  turns  your  Apple  into  a  sophisticated  graphics 
system  capable  of  creating  animated  three-dimensional  color 
images,  projecting  them  in  true  perspective  on  the  screen,  rotate 
them,  move  them  closer,  further  away,  and  many  other  exciting  and 
imaginative  things. 

Draws  objects  with  65,000  points  per  side. 

A  powerful  screen-oriented  text  editor  is  included  to  facilitate 
image  formation.  This  program  was  recently  featured  on  Tom 
Snyder's  Prime  Time  Saturday  TV  Show  and  is  now  available  for 
sale. 

APPLE  WORLD'S  powerful  editor  is  so  easy  to  use  that  children  will 
love  it.  You  can  now  "sketch"  your  dream  house,  boat,  car,  or 
fantasy  empire.  Then  view  it  as  it  would  be  seen  from  10,000  feet,  or 
you  can  ZOOM  in  until  the  screen  is  filled  with  a  doorknob.  You 
could  then  go  inside  and  move  from  room  to  room  examining 
furniture  placement  as  your  screen  rotates  within  the  room.  Images 
or  specific  parts  of  images  can  easily  be  saved  to  disk  or  printer. 

Does  all  this  sound  like  science  fiction?  You  won't  think  so  after  you 
have  visited  Apple  World. 

Introductory  Price  $59.95 

36  page  manual  included 

For  48K  Apple  II  or  Plus  with  Disk 


TM 


By  Ken  Germann 


You've  Asked  For  It,  Now  You  Got  It! 

quickest  and  most  powerful  access  method  for  serious  Apple  and  Pet 
MULTI-INDEX,  functions,  as  well  as  increasing  processing  speed. 


SUPER  KRAM'S  "Added  Features 

•  MULTIKEY  SUPPORT  —  Allowing  simultaneous  access  to  a  KRAM 
file  by  more  than  one  key  field. 

•  HI-SPEED  READ  —  This  feature  allows  increased  I/O  speed  up 
to  60%  faster  during  processing  of  SUPER  KRAM  read 

next,  read  previous,  put  and  delete  requests. 

•  IMPROVED  INDEX  ARCHITECTURE  —  Allowing  faster 
index  searchers  and  more  efficient  disk  space  utilization. 

•  INTEGRATED  BASIC  COMMANDS  —  Allowing  SUPER 
KRAMtm  commands  to  be  coded  in-line  with  Basic,  providing 
easier  usage  of  KRAM  than  ever  before. 

•  USER-SPECIFIABLE  BUFFER  POOL  —  Allowing  the  user  to 
specify  how  many  KRAM  files  are  allowed  open  at  one 
time;  will  support  any  number  of  KRAM  files. 


•  LOGICAL  RECORDS  (KEYS  MAY  BE  NON-UNIQUE)  — 
Records  added  to  the  KRAM  files  are  immediately 
accessible  by  any  of  the  defined  keys  for  the  file  (Automatic 
Upgrade). 

•  KRAM  2.0  files  are  totally  compatible  with  SUPER  KRAM 

Requirements 

Apple  &  Pet  requirements  -  KRAM  2.0  and  SUPER  KRAM 
are  designed  to  work  with  both  Apple  ll's,  Disk  II,  and  Corvus 
Systems  10  Megabyte  Winchester  Disk,  and  Commodore's 
2040,  3040,  and  8050  Disk  units.  KRAM  2.0  and  SUPER  KRAM 
require  32K/48K  Apple  and  a  least  on  disk  drive. 
(KRAM  2.0  requires  Integer  Basic  in  ROM).  KRAM  and 
SUPER  KRAM  work  on  any  40/80  column  16K/32K  Pet. 


SUPER  KRAM ™  Only  $175 


BREAKTHROUGHS 

these  sophisticated  programs  designed  to  meet  the  stringent  needs  of  individuals  and  business  professionals. 

NEW  3-D  SUPERGRAPHICS 


&  3-D  GAME  DEVELOPMENT  SYSTEM  IN  COLOR 


by  Paul  Lutus 

Watch  colorful  butterflys,  birds,  fly  across  your  Apple  or  Atari 
screen  with  true  3  dimensional  perspective.  Have  rocket  ships 
fly  out  at  you  in  this  incredible  high  speed  graphics  package. 
3-D  SUPERGRAPHICStm  is  a  6502  machine  language  program 
that  will  interface  to  your  Basic  or  machine  language 
programs  or  games  using  simple  "DOS-like"  commands. 
Features  include: 

•  Simple  image  entry  through  editor 

•  Objects  up  to  256  points  per  side 

•  Uses  all  hi-res  colors 

•  Allows  mixed  colored  text  & 
graphics  for  prompts  and  captions 

•  Translates  on  3  axes 

•  Individual  axis  scales 

•  21  different  commands 

•  Rotate  object  by  1.4°  to  360°  increments  at  machine  speeds 

For  48K  Apple  II  or  Plus  with 
Disk  II  $39.95  for  disk 
For  ATARI  800  with  40K  memory 
(disk  optional)  $39.95  for  tape 


FOR  COMMODORE  16K/32K  COMPUTERS 
DATABASE  MANAGEMENT  SYSTEM  —  A  comprehensive, 
interactive  system  like  those  run  on  mainframes!  Six  modules 
comprising  42K  of  programming  allow  you  to;  create,  edit,  delete, 
display,  print,  sort,  merge,  etc.,  etc.  -  databases  of  up  to  10,000 
records.  Printer  routines  automatically  generate  reports  and  labels 
on  demand.  60  pages  of  concise  documentation  are  included. 
Requirements  -  16-32K  PET  and  2040  Dual  Disk  (printer 
optional) COST  $1 25 


OTHER  SOFTWARE 

APPLE  COMPUTERS 

Super  Space  Wars $  9.95 

States  &  Capitals 9.95 

Moving  Point 

Average 19  95 

Stock  Options 24.95 

Finance 12.95 

Bonds  12.95 

COMMODORE  PET 

Stock  Options 24.95 

Finance 12.95 

Bonds  12.95 


Stock  Analyzer 22.95 

Mortgage  1 4.95 

Space  Intruders 
("Best  Game  of  1979")  .  .$19.95 

Jury/Hostage 9.95 

Kentucky  Derby/Roulette  9.95 

Mlien  I.Q./Tank 9.95 

Tunnelvision/Maze  Chase  14.95 

Submarine  Attack  9.95 

Battle  of  Midway  7.95 

Laser  Tank  Battle* 9.95 

Swarm 14.95 

Baseball  9.95 

Super  Startrek 14.95 

PET  Music  Box 29.95 


Technical  Fcnum 


A  Line-Failure 
Indicator 


Hank  Olson,  POB  339,  Menlo  Park  CA  94025 


Have  you  ever  come  back  from  work  looking  forward 
to  an  evening  of  home  computing,  only  to  find  that 
nothing  works?  The  program  that  was  almost  debugged 
during  previous  evenings  is  gone7 

While  nothing  short  of  nonvolatile  memory  will  com- 
pletely solve  this  problem,  the  simple  line-failure  in- 
dicator described  here  will  alert  you  to  problems  that  oc- 
curred while  you  were  away.  A  simple  glance  at  the 
three-color  display  of  LEDs  (light-emitting  diodes)  will  at 
least  let  you  know  what  you  are  in  for.  The  indicators 
light  as  follows: 

•  green:  power  is  on,  no  recent  failures 

•  yellow:  power  has  failed  and  returned 

•  red:  power  has  been  off  for  a  short  time 

•  none:  power  has  been  off  for  a  long  time 


N.O.  =  NORMALLY  OPEN 
N.C.  =  NORMALLY  CLOSED 


Having  different  colored  LEDs  seems  best  from  a  human- 
interface  point  of  view,  even  though  their  voltage  re- 
quirements differ  somewhat. 

The  circuit  of  the  line-status  indicator  is  shown  in 
figure  1.  The  basic  power  supply  uses  a  common  6.3  V 
filament  transformer  and  a  bridge  rectifier  of  four 
1N4001  diodes.  The  primary  is  controlled  by  SW1,  a 
double-pole  switch  which  prevents  the  battery  from 
discharging  when  the  unit  is  off.  This  supply  must  pro- 
vide the  current  to  light  one  LED  plus  energize  a  small 
relay  coil.  This  represents  about  150  ohms,  so  the  RC 
(resistor/capacitor)  time  constant  of  the  power-supply 
filter  is  about  0.15  seconds.  Therefore,  if  you  return  to 
find  the  yellow  indicator  on,  you  will  know  that  there  has 
been  a  line-voltage  dropout  of  0.3  seconds  or  longer. 

Looking  at  figure  1,  we  see  that  the  green  LED  is  held 
on  by  SCRl.  The  SCR  gate  can  only  be  triggered  into 
conduction  manually  by  means  of  SW2.  Once  this  push- 
button switch  (SW2)  is  (momentarily)  closed,  a  pulse  of 
current  enters  the  gate  of  the  SCR  from  the  0.1  /*F 
capacitor;  and  the  SCR  goes  into  conduction.  Since  this 
SCR  operates  on  DC,  it  will  stay  in  conduction  until  the 
DC  supply  fails  (meaning  that  there  is  an  AC  line 
dropout). 

When  the  DC  supply  fails,  the  relay  Kl  is  de-energized, 
closing  the  "normally  closed"  contacts  and  lighting  the 


Figure  1:  This  power-line-failure  indicator  uses  a  silicon-controlled  rectifier  to  detect  voltage  dropouts.  If  power  should  fail  for 
more  than  0.3  seconds,  the  SCR  ceases  to  conduct  and  the  green  LED  is  extinguished,  while  the  red  LED  lights.  The  red  LED  remains 
on  as  long  as  power  is  out;  its  power  is  drawn  from  a  set  of  rechargeable  batteries.  Should  power  return,  the  red  LED  goes  out  and 
the  yellow  one  is  illuminated  to  indicate  this  sequence  of  events. 


86       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


At  ^7951  how  toughcan 
these  new  Tigers  be? 


Introducing  the  new  Paper  Tiger™ 
445  with  the  most  rugged  printing 
mechanism  ever  put  in  a  low-cost 
matrix  printer. 

The  445  comes  with  a  reliable  ballis- 
tic-type print  head  and  an  advanced 
cartridge  ribbon  that  lasts  four  times 
longer  than  many  cassette  or  spool 
ribbons.  Two  separate  heavy  duty 
motors  drive  the  print  head 
and  advance  the  paper.  Plus  you  get 
true  tractor  paper  feed. 

And  the  new  445  gives  you  the  per- 
formance you  expect  from  the  Paper 
Tiger  family  of  printers.  You  can  soft- 
ware-select character  sizes,  print 
80-  and  132-column  formats,  adjust 
paper  width  and  length,  even  gen- 
erate six-part  business  forms.  All  at 
unidirectional  print  speeds  to  198 
characters  per  second. 


Need  more  stripes?  Specify  DotPlot™ 
a  sophisticated  raster  graphics  option. 

If  you've  got  an  Apple**,  TRS-80*** 
or  other  personal  computer,  get  your 
paws  on  the  tough  new  Paper  Tiger™ 
445  from  IDS. 

The  people  who  invented  low-cost 
matrix  printing  just  growled. 

Call  TOLL  FREE  800-258-1386  (in 
New  Hampshire,  Alaska  and  Hawaii, 
call  603-673-9100.)  ; 
Or  write: 

Integral  Data     J» 
Systems,  Inc.,  gifti     4£s  {§ 
Milford,  New    , 
Hampshire 
03055. 

Paper 

■5  ^Integral  Data  Systems,  Inc. 


Circle  51  on  inquiry  card. 


"Suggested  U.S.  retail  price. 
"Apple  is  a  trademark  of  Apple  Computer  Inc. 
*  TRS-80  is  a  trademark  of  Radio  Shack,  a  division  of  Tandy  Corp. 


WHY  CUT? 
WHY  STRIP? 
WHYNOT  . . . 

JUST 


WIRE 

WRAPPING 

TOOL 


AWG  30  Wire 
.025"  Square  Posts 
-j  Daisy  Chain  or  Point  To  Point 

•  No  Stripping  or  Slitting  Required 
JUST  WRAP ,.... 

Built  In  Cut  Off 
Easy  Loading  of  Wire 

•  Available  Wire  Colors: 

•  Blue,  White,  Red  &  Yellow 
PATENTED  U.SA. 
FOREIGN  PATENTS  PENDING 


JUST  WRAP  TOOL  WITH  ONE  50  FT.  ROLL  OF  WIRE 
COLOR        T      PART  NO.  US.  LIST  PRICE 


BLUE  JW 1 B  S  14.95 

WHITE  JW  1 W  14.95 

YELLOW  JW  1  Y  14.95 

RED  IW 1 R  14.95 


REPLACEMENT  ROLL  OF  WIRE  50  FT. 


BLUE  R  JW  B  S  2.98 

WHITE  R  JW  W  2.98 

YELLOW  RJWY  2.98 

RED  R  IW  R  2.98 


JUST  WRAP-UNWRAPPDJG  TOOL 


'Minimum  billings 
$2.00/Nei    " 


OK  Machine  6*  Tool 
Corporation 

3455  Conner  St.,  Bronx, N.Y.  10475  U.S. A 
Tel. (212)  994-6600  Telex  125091 


I 

1       1 

ifN 

•          ■ 

red  LED.  The  1N4454  serves  to  disconnect  the  two-cell 
nickel-cadmium  (nicad)  battery  from  Ul  during  power 
outages,  so  that  the  only  load  on  the  battery  is  the  LED. 
Use  of  a  relay  to  actuate  the  battery-to-LED  circuit  is  the 
best  method,  because  it  closes  the  circuit  with  nearly  zero 
resistance,  while  consuming  no  power  in  the  process.  The 
two-cell  nicad,  a  General  Electric  DS25D,  is  a  rather 
small  unit  made  for  printed-circuit  board  mounting  and 
thus  fits  in  easily.  This  tiny  battery  will  light  the  red  LED 
for  several  hours  when  fully  charged. 

When  AC  power  returns,  DC  is  quickly  restored  to 
energize  Kl  and  to  charge  the  battery  via  ICl,  the 
regulator.  ICl  is  a  voltage  regulator,  but  it  also  has 
current-limit  capability.  The  10-ohm  resistor  between 
pins  1  and  8  of  the  regulator  causes  charge  current  to  be 
limited  to  20  mA,  even  if  the  battery  is  nearly  discharged. 
As  the  battery  charges  and  its  terminal  voltage  ap- 
proaches the  regulated  voltage  output  to  which  ICl  is  set, 
current  drops  below  20  mA  and  tapers  off  in  the 
"constant-voltage"  charge  mode. 

Meanwhile,  the  SCR  remains  nonconducting,  which 
allows  current  to  flow  via  the  360-ohm  and  10  k-ohm 
resistors  to  the  base  of  Ql,  forward-biasing  this  transistor 
and  lighting  the  yellow  LED.  Thus  the  yellow  LED  in- 
dicates that  power  has  failed  and  returned.  The  red  LED 
has,  of  course,  been  extinguished  with  the  energizing  of 
Kl. 

The  final  step  in  the  sequence  is  when  the  person  who 
uses  this  line-failure  detector  notices  that  the  yellow  LED 
is  lit,  and  resets  SW2.  This  act  causes  SCRl  to  conduct, 
diverting  current  from  the  base  of  Ql,  extinguishing  the 
yellow  LED  and  lighting  the  green  LED. 

Since  it  takes  between  1.5  and  1.8  V  to  light  an  LED,  I 
chose  a  battery  consisiting  of  two  nicad  cells  in  series. 
This  gives  a  battery  voltage  of  2.4  V,  which  is  adequate 
to  light  LEDs  of  all  colors,  using  series  dropping  resistors. 
Since  the  battery  is  charged  in  series  with  a  1N4454,  the 
voltage-regulator  output  should  be  set  (by  means  of  the 
5  k-ohm  variable  resistor)  to  between  +2.9  and  +3.1  V. 
This  accounts  for  the  series  forward-voltage  drop  in  the 
1N4454.  Note  that  an  RCA-CA3085  is  used  as  a 
regulator.  An  LM305H  (National  Semiconductor)  will 
not  substitute  for  this  integrated  circuit  since  it's  not 
made  to  regulate  below  +4.5  V.  The  older  National 
LM300H  would  work,  however. 

Kl  can  be  any  small  relay  having  a  coil  voltage  from  4 
to  8  V  DC,  with  a  set  of  normally  closed  contacts.  The 
series  resistor  is  adjusted  to  drop  the  unregulated  +8  V 
of  the  DC  supply  to  the  desired  voltage  of  the  relay  coil. 
In  my  own  case,  a  small  relay  (from  an  old  radiosonde 
transmitter)  which  had  a  400-ohm  coil  and  which  closed 
reliably  on  +4  V  was  used.  A  390-ohm  resistor  was  then 
used  to  drop  the  +8  V  supply  to  the  coil  voltage  of 
+  4V.I 


Technical  Forum  is  a  feature  intended  as  an  interactive 
dialog  on  the  technology  of  personal  computing.  The  subject 
matter  is  open-ended,  and  the  intent  is  to  foster  discussion 
and  communication  among  readers  of  BYTE.  We  ask  that  all 
correspondents  supply  their  full  names  and  addresses  to  be 
printed  with  their  commentaries.  We  also  ask  that  cor- 
respondents supply  their  telephone  numbers,  which  will  not 
be  printed. 


88        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  52  on  Inquiry  card. 


Look  what's  happened  to 


HIPL0T 


TM 


DMP-4 
$1,385* 


DMP-5 
$1,685* 


DMP-7 
1,985* 


It's  grown  into  a  complete 
family  of  quality  low  cost  digital  plotters 


In  just  two  short  years,  The 
HIPL0T  has  become  the  most 
popular  digital  plotter  among 
small  systems  users.  With  a 
record  like  that,  what  can  we  do 
for  an  encore?  WE'VE  IN- 
TRODUCED A  COMPLETE  LINE 
OF  HIPL0TS...with  a  model 
suited  for  just  about  every  plot- 
ting application. 

The  HIPL0T  DMP  Series  is  a 
new  family  of  digital  plotters 
with  both  "standard"  and  "in- 
telligent" models  available  with 
surface  areas  of  8V2"  x  11"  (DIN 
A4)  and  11"  x  17"  (DIN  A3).  For 
the  user  needing  a  basic  reliable 
plotter,  we  have  the  "old  stan- 
dard" DMP-2  (81/z "  x  1 1 ")  and  the 
"new  standard"  DMP-5  (11"  x 
17").  For  those  needing  a  lit- 
tle more  capability,  there  are 
the  DMP-3  (81/2"  x  11")  and 
the  DMP-6  (11"  x  17")-both 

TM  HIPLOT  and  DM/PL  are  Trademarks 
of  Houston  Instrument 


Yes,  they  are  UL  listed!  *  * 

microprocessor  controlled  and 
providing  easy  remote  position- 
ing of  the  X  and  Y  axes  (perfect 
for  the  OEM).  For  those  who 
want  this  intelligence  plus  the 
convenience  of  front  panel  elec- 
tronic controls,  we've  provided 
the  DMP-4  (8V2"  x  11")  and  the 
DMP-7  (11"  x  17"). 

The  "standard"  plotters  come 
complete  with  an  RS-232-C  and 
a  parallel  interface.  The  "intel- 
ligent" DMP  plotters  accept  data 
from  either  an  RS-232-C  or  Centronics 
data  source.  For  the  "standard"  plot- 
ters, software  is  available  from 
our  ever  expanding  "Micrographic 
Users  Group."  The  "intelligent" 
HIPL0Ts  use  our  exclusive 
DM/PL™  language  which  min- 
inimizes  plot  software  to  a 
fraction   of  that   normally  as- 

houston  instrument 

GRAPHICS  DIVISION  OF 

BAUSCHSLOMB  T 


Circle  53  for  literature 

Circle  54  to  have  representative  call 

sociated  wth  digital  plotting. 

With  the  new  DMP  Series, 
high  quality  digital  plotting  can 
now  be  a  part  of  your  system.  It 
just  doesn't  make  sense  to  be 
without  this  valuable  tool  when 
there  is  a  DMP  plotter  with  the 
plot  size,  speed  and  capabilities 
that  are  exactly  tailored  to  your 
specific  needs. ..and  your 
budget. 

Prices  for  the  DMP  series 
range  from  $1,085*  to  $1,985*. 

For  complete  information  con- 
tact Houston  Instrument,  One 
Houston  Square,  Austin,  Texas 
78753.  (512)837-2820.  For  rush 
literature  requests,  outside  Texas 
call  toll  free  1-800-531-5205.  For 
technical  information  ask  for 
operator  #2.  In  Europe  contact 
Houston  Instrument,  Rochester- 
laan  6,  8240  Gistel,  Belgium. 
Telephone  059/27-74-45. 


•U.S.  suggested  retail  prices  only. 
•DMP  2,  3  and  4  UL  listed 
DMP  5,  6  and  7  UL  listing  pending 


Language  Control  Structures 
for  Easy  Electronic  Visualization 


Control  structures  are  the 
program-  flow  manipulation  features 
of  the  language  that  you  use  to  beat 
your  computer  into  submission. 
BASIC'S  control  structures  are  em- 
bodied in  the  RUN,  GOTO,  GOSUB, 
and  RETURN  keywords  and  a  few 
functions,  certainly  an  impoverished 
set.  Highly  structured  languages  like 
Pascal  are  rigidly  limited  to  the  con- 
trol structure  of  subroutines.  Lowly 
structured  approaches  like  assembly 
language  are  necessary  to  implement 


la 


Dr  Thomas  DeFanti 

Electronic  Visualization  Laboratory 

University  of  Illinois  at  Chicago  Circle 

POB  4348 

Chicago  IL  60680 

higher-level  languages  and  real-time 
systems,  because  the  lack  of  enforced 
structure  allows  an  infinite  variety  of 
control  structures  to  be  used  at  a  cost 
of  great  human  effort.  The  execution- 
speed  gain  in  using  assembly 
language  is  more  due  to  the  efficient 
building  of  customized  tables  and 
linked  lists  than  to  efficiency  in  add- 
ing, subtracting,  multiplying,  and 
dividing  numbers. 

Assembler  coding  is  by  no  means 
easy.    Note    the    word    "easy":    it's 


important  because  in  one  sense  it 
means  "accessible."  In  this  case,  it's 
your  access  to  complex  electronic 
visualizations. 

Electronic  visualizations  are  impor- 
tant  because  producing  and 
manipulating  images,  especially 
animated  ones,  is  a  truly  multidimen- 
sional task  which  reflects  our  real- 
world  interactions  much  more  than 
maintaining  an  accurate  laundry  list 
or  printing  payroll  checks.  Producing 
them  demands  a  lot  from  software. 


r 

c  Z> 

ft/Jj  >  J  §l\\ 

■  SJ  /  0  i  /*  "  i 

d             11 

\ 

5\v  a 

Photos  la  and  lb:  Sample  output  from  the  GRASS/ Image  Processor.  Photo  la  was  made  by  Guenther  Tetz,  and  photo  lb  by  Dan 
Sandin  and  the  author. 


90       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  55  on  inquiry  card. 


Oronge  micro 


CENTRONICS  737(S°Zv) 


Word  Processing  Print  Quality 

•  18  x  9  dot  matrix;  suitable  for  word 
processing  •  Underlining  •  proportional 
spacing  •  right  margin  justification  •  serif 
typeface  •  50/80  CPS  •  9Vj"  Pin 
Feed/Friction  feed  •  Reverse  Platen  • 
80/132  columns 


'SPECIALIZING  IN  PRINTERS 
AND  CRT'S" 


MALIBU 

The  Small  Business  Printer; 
Letter  Quality  &  Speed. 

•  10  x  9  dot  matrix  •  Letter  quality  print; 
Lower  case  descenders  •  High  speed;  165 
CPS,  Bidirectional,  Logic  seeking  •  Wide 
carriage,  Adjustable  tractors  to  16"  • 
Vertical  forms  control  •  Variable  line  spac- 
ing •  User  programmable  character  set  • 
DOT  RESOLUTION  GRAPHICS 


CENTRONIC  737-1 


(List  $995) 


SCall 


MALIBU  165 


(List  $2495) 


$2195 


EPSON  TX80 


A  Reliable,  Graphics  Printer 


•  5  x  7  dot  matrix  •  125  CPS  •  Double  wide 

,    characters  •  Dot  resolution  graphics  &  64 

f    special  graphic  characters  •  6/8  lines  per 

inch  •  Vertical  forms  control  •  Adjustable 

tractors  •  Heavy  duty  —  Highly  reliable 


EPSON  TX80 


(List  $799) 


SCall 


OKIDATA  MICROLINE  SERIES 

TRS-80  Graphics  Compatibility 


•  9  x  7  dot  matrix  •  80  CPS  •  80,  132 
columns  —  64  shapes  for  charts,  graphs  & 
diagrams  •  Double  wide  characters  •  6/8 
ines  per  inch  •  Up  to  3  part  copy  •  Friction 
&  pin  feed  •  200  M  character  head  warranty 


OKIDATA  MICROLINE  80       (List  $800) 


$599 


BASE  2 

The  Hobbyist  Printer  With  The  Most  Features 

•  Graphics  •  Tractors/Friction  Feed  •  2K 

«•—       Input  Buffer  •  RS-232  Serial,  Centronics- 
■U  A     Parallel,  IEEE-488,  20  ma  •  TRS-80  Cable 
B*f.   option  •  100  CPS  •  Fast  form  feed  •  User 
programmable  character  set  •  64,  72,  80, 
j  96,    120,    132   Columns/line   •    Expanded 
characters  •  Automatic  skip-over-perfora- 
|  tion   •   Horizontal   &  Vertical  tabs  •  Pro- 
grammable vertical   line   spacing   •    Intel 
8085  Microprocessor  —  over  40  software 
commands 
BASE  2    800B  (List  $699)  $649 


TOLL  FREE 
(800)  854-8275 

CA,AK,  HI  (714)  630-3322 

At  Orange  Micro,  we  try  to  fit  the  right  printer  to  your  application. 
Call  our  printer  specialists  for  free  consultation. 


ANACOM 

Low  Cost,  High  Speed,  Wide  Carriage 

•  9x9  dot  matrix  •  Lower  case  descenders  •  Wide  carriage  • 
Adjustable  tractors  to  16"  •  150CPS,  Bidirectional,  Logic  Seeking 

ANACOM  150 (List  $1350)  $1250 

Low-Priced  Professional  Print  Quality 

•  9  x  9  dot  matrix  •  Lower  case  descenders  •  80  CPS  •  Bidirectional, 
Logic  seeking  Tractor  feed  •  40.  66,  80,  132  columns  per  line  •  64 
special  graphic  characters 

EPSON  MX80  (List  $645)  SCall 

THE  SMALL  COMPUTER  PRINTER     by  Brent  Weston ' 

This  illustrated  booklet  provides  the  information  you  need  about  today's  small 
printers.  There  are  many  printers  available,  each  with  different  features  and 
capabilities.  The  Small  Computer  Printer  will  guide  you  in  determining  which 
printer  best  fits  your  applications.  A  complete  feature  comparison  chart  is 
included  representing  over  40  small  printers.  A  printer  is  a  big  investment  — 
learn  all  about  them  before  you  buy  one.  §795 


TELEVIDEO  CRT'S 

PRICES  SLASHED! 


TVI912C 
TVI  920C 


} 


Please  Call  Toll  Free 
Prices  are  too  low  to 
advertise 


■■■■■■■■■■■IHHBMaaaaHMHBMi 

PRINTERS 

CENTRONICS  730  Radio  Shack  Line  Printer  II (List  $795)  $ 


639 
$  Call  I 
(List  $2970)  $25991 
(Lis!  $1094)$    9391 

(List  $12951$  Call  | 
(List  $2905)  $25591 


OKIDATA  MICROLINE  82  &  83 

NEC  5530-5  letter  quality,  RO,  parallel,  tractors   

PAPER  TIGER  IDS  440      w/graphics  and  2K  buffer  . 
PAPER  TIGER  IDS  460  w/graphics,  9  x  9  dot  matrix 

QUME  5/45  typewriter  quality     

INTERFACE  EQUIPMENT 

APPLE  II  -  BASE  2  parallel  graphics  interface  board 'cable               $  160 1 
APPLE  II  -  EPSON  TX80 

parallel  graphics  interface  board  '  cable $  1101 

SSMAIO  BOARD  Apple  Serial/parallel  interface               (List  $225)S  199l 

MICROTRONICS  Atari  parallel  interface                                               $  691 

ATARI  850  Interface  module,  serial/parallel     $  199l 

TRS-80  CABLES                                                                            S  CallJ 


CALL  FOR  FREE  CATALOG 


*fe 


Phone  orders  WELCOME.  Same  day 
shipment  for  VISA,  MASTER 
CHARGE,  and  AMERICAN  EX- 
PRESS. Personal  checks  require  2 
weeks  to  clear.  Add  3%  for  ship- 
ping and  handling.  California  resi- 
dents add  6%.  Manufacturer's 
warranty  included.  Prices  subject  to 
revision. 


Oronge  m 

ffllrrn  < 


micro 


3148  E.  La  Palma,  Suite  E 
Anaheim,  CA  92806 


and  making  their  access  easy  requires 
paying  attention  to  the  provision  of 
rich  control  structures  in  a  language. 

Electronic  Visualization  is  an  inten- 
tionally broad  term  meant  to  conjure 
thoughts  of  computer  graphics, 
animation,  image  processing,  video 
synthesis,  and  even  advanced  word- 
processing.  Anyone  successfully  pro- 
ducing images  for  communication  is 
unlikely  to  reject  a  technique  for 
reasons  of  algorithmic  purity  (as  a 
computer  scientist  might  feel  forced 
to  do).  Computer  hobbyists  use  the 
tools  at  hand,  and  electronic 
visualization  is  the  means  to  the  end 
and  the  end  product  of  using  these 
tools.  Simultaneously,  it  can  be  both 
because  we  are  seeing  the  vast 
increase  of  real-time  imaging  systems, 
even  in  microcomputer-based  con- 
figurations; and  controlling  these 
real-time  systems  can  be  as  feedback- 
intensive  as  playing  a  musical  instru- 
ment or  driving  a  racing  car. 

Just  to  unify  the  concepts  so  far, 
think  about  this  question:  what 
besides  the  cosmetic  packaging 
governs  our  choice  of  a  musical 
instrument  or  an  automobile?  It  is  a 
combination  of  capability  and  user 


The  most  successful 
approaches  to  date  are 
basically  highly 
developed,  beautifully 
evolved  kluges. 


control,  of  course:  having  one 
without  the  other  is  useless.  So  why 
are  the  programming  languages  cur- 
rently available  so  impoverished  on 
the  control-structure  side? 

Perhaps  it  is  because  computers 
were  invented  to  process  payrolls, 
not  images.  Television,  on  the  other 
hand,  is  image-oriented  and  currently 
uses  a  host  of  presently  emerging  real- 
time digital  techniques  and  increas- 
ingly flexible  control  structures.  As  a 
matter  of  fact,  just  about  all  the 
television  you  see  these  days  is 
digitally  processed  for  purposes  of 
synchronization. 

Television  is  a  high-speed  medium 
conducive  to  parallel  and  pipeline 
processing.  You  are  driving  television 
rather  than  generating  it.  TV  cameras 
are  on  all  the  time  and  you,  as  direc- 


A  CREATION  OF  COMPUTER  HEADWARE 

t/7 


(Wow!  How'dM  That 
Stuff  get  In  There?) 

A  sophisticated, 
self-indexing  filing 
system — flexible, 
infinitely  useful  and  easy 
to  use,  that  adapts  to 
your  needs. 

WHATSIT's  unique  capabilities: 

Multiple  Entries  allowed  per 
field:  For  example,  a 
bibliographic  file  can 
associate  each  work  with  any 
number  of  authors.  WHATSIT 
allocates  file  space  as 
needed  for  each. 

New  Data  Fields  added  "on 
the  fly":  You're  not  confined 
to  a  particular  "record 
layout"  that  must  be  declared 
in  advance.  Your  file  evolves 
to  fit  your  needs. 


Immediate  Response:  Even  in 
the  largest  files,  WHATSIT 
responds  in  seconds,  thanks 
to  pointer  linkages  and  hash 
coding. 

Conversational  Dialogue: 

Query  and  update  requests 
may  be  intermixed  in  any 
order,  without  returning  to  a 
"menu  selector. " 

NEW 

Apple  II  Plus 
WHATSIT  at  special 
introductory  price: 

$95 

(Regular  price,  $150 
after  December  31,  1980). 

WHATSIT  comes  ready  to  run  on 
your  Apple,  Apple  II  Plus,  AlpaMicro 
NorthStar,  or  CP/M  computer.  See 
your  dealer  for  a  full 
demonstration. .  .or  write  or  call: 

IIVHIHIU 

<§ojtwanz 


P.O.  Box  14815  •  San  Francisco,  CA  94114  •  Tel:  (415)  621-2106 


tor,  are  fading,  switching,  adding 
titles  and  constantly  throwing  away 
images  that  you  don't  want.  Control 
is  the  name  of  the  game. 

The  television  folk  are  not  about  to 
give  up  rich,  real-time  control  struc- 
tures and  the  computer  folk  won't 
give  up  language.  How  to  get  them 
together  is  the  essence  of  the  task  at 
hand. 

Getting  Computers  and  Television 
Technology  Together 

Looking  at  the  history  of  control 
structures  for  computer  graphics  and 
for  television,  we  see  that  most 
computer-graphics  usage,  with  the 
obvious  and  exciting  exception  of 
video  games,  is  some  variety  of  non- 
real-time  plotting.  This  is  where  the 
money  is  and  where  the  language 
development  for  computer-aided 
design  has  been  focused.  No 
manufacturer  of  equipment  for  com- 
puter graphics  (excepting  the  video- 
game people)  now  depends  on  anima- 
tion for  solvency.  Plotting  is  slow  and 
often  merely  the  side  output  of  a  large 
FORTRAN  finite-element  analysis 
program.  Visual  aesthetics  are  rarely 
the  primary  concern,  if  any  concern 
at  all.  People  who  use  such  systems 
are  highly  skilled  and  highly  paid 
technicians  who  became  that  way  by 
having  to  deal  with  plotting  packages 
as  a  condition  of  employment.  If  the 
job  were  easy,  they  wouldn't  get  paid 
so  much. 

We  are  just  reaching  the  point  of 
electronically  generating  and 
manipulating  images,  in  real  time, 
under  program  control.  How  do  we 
design  languages  to  deal  with  real 
time?  Or,  more  important,  why  do 
we  want  such  a  language,  an 
alphanumeric  string-oriented 
language,  at  all?  Why  not  use  picture- 
based  languages  with  symbols  for 
motions  and  timing? 

How  Can  You  Control  Images 
Easily? 

After  about  ten  years  of  living  with 
this  obvious  and  nagging  question, 
some  conclusions  became  clear.  First, 
purist  approaches  to  electronic 
visualization  are  hopeless.  Image  con- 
trol employs  a  hybrid  of  languages, 
several  input  devices,  picture- 
oriented  commands,  custom  hard- 
ware, and  a  smattering  of  idiosyn- 
crasies. The  most  successful 
approaches    to    date    are    basically 


92        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  56  on  inquiry  card. 


The 


MAGIC  WAND* 


ALMOST 
PERFEC. 

We've  been  saying  it  for  a  few  months 
now,  and  the  reviewers  seem  to  agree. 

4  4  Until  I  saw  the  Magic  Wand,  if  I  were  allowed  to  own  one  and 
only  one  editor,  Word  Star*  would  have  been  it.  .  .  .  My  personal 
preference  is  for  Pencil  or  Magic  Wand  for  text  creation.  J  5 

Jerry  Pournelle 
On  Computing,  Summer  1980 

4  4  The  basic  functions  of  the  Magic  Wand  editor  are  as  easy  to  learn 
as  those  of  Electric  Pencil*.  .  .  .  Magic  Wand  dominates  in  the  area 
of  print  formatting.  ?  ?  Larry  Press 

On  Computing,  Summer  1980 

4  4  Of  all  the  word  processors  I  have  used  (and  that  includes  a  dozen 
or  more),  the  Magic  Wand  is  the  most  versatile.  The  Wand  has 
almost  all  of  the  features  of  other  processors,  plus  many  new  ones  of 
its  own.  It  measures  up  to  even  the  word-processing  software  running 
on  the  largest  mainframe  computers.?  ?Rod  Hallen 

Microcomputing,  June  1980 

4  4  The  Magic  Wand  is  one  of  the  most  flexible  word  processing 
packages  available,  and  should  be  considered  by  any  potential  word 
processing  purchaser.  5  ?  Glenn  A.  Hart 

Creative  Computing,  August  1980 

Available  for  both  the  CP/M®    and  OASIS  operating  systems 

small  business  applications,  vac. 

3220  Louisiana  •  Suite  205  •  Houston,  Texas  77006  •  713-528-5158 


Circle  57  on  inquiry  card. 


Electric  Pencil  is  a  trademark  of  Michael  Shrayer  Software,  Inc. 
WordStar  is  a  trademark  of  Micro  Pro  International.  Inc. 
CP/M  is  a  registered  trademark  of  Digital  Research  Corp. 

BYTE  November  1980        93 


highly  developed,  beautifully  evolved 
kluges.  We  know  what  "purism"  in 
coding  FORTRAN  and  BASIC  does 
to  image  production.  Purism  in 
television  technique  eliminates  com- 
puter graphics  as  we  know  it.  So  how 
about  using  graphic  symbols  to  save 
the  day? 

Using  symbols  in  a  menu  and  some 
sort  of  manual-selection  mechanism 
is  an  approach  taken  by  many  FOR- 
TRAN graphics  systems.  This  limits 
the  number  of  symbols  to  those 
defined  in  the  menu  and  there  is  no 
user-level  extensibility  in  that  you 
cannot   create  new  symbols   out  of 


sequences  of  old  symbols,  which 
eliminates  the  one  truly  unique 
feature  of  computers.  To  state  it 
bluntly,  you  can't  program  with  a 
menu. 

What  happens,  however,  if  you  do 
find  a  system  that  provides  for  the 
combination  of  nonalphanumeric 
symbols  in  meaningful  ways?  In  an 
extremely  advanced  case,  it  should 
look  something  like  Japanese,  and 
you  might  note  that  the  language 
used  to  program  computers  in  Japan 
is  a  phonetic  alphanumeric  transcrip- 
tion of  their  language.  They  do  not 
program  in  their  extremely  beautiful 


Tax  Practitioners  /  CPAs : 

Successful  Tax  Professional  Reveals 
Effective  Practice  Development 
Formula. ... 


"Every  tax 

professional.. .whether  he 

is  desirous  of  expanding 

his  practice,  or  just 

better  serving  his  existing 

clientele  (or  both).. .can 

profit  from  this  system." 


Are  you  satisfied  with  the  growth  of  your  tax  practice? 

Successful  practice  development  is  a  perplexing  problem  facing  all  tax  professionals 
today.  The  field  tested  MICROTAX  professional  tax  preparation  software  package 
can  provide  you  with  an  innovative  solution. ..and  at  the  same  time  enable  you  to 
serve  your  existing  clientele  in  a  more  professional  and  timely  manner. 


Consider  the  advantages  this  state-of-the- 

•  Complete  System... 

.. .containing  Federal  Individual,  Corporate  AND  State 
Individual  returns.  The  system  is  designed  to  accept  in 
formation,  summerize  the  data,  compute  the  tax.  and 
print  th'e  returns;  including  all  forms  and  schedules  re 
quired  by  the  IRS 

•  Versatile 

MicroTax  is  cost  efficient  for  practices  preparing  as  few 
as  20  returns  per  tax  season  .but  comes  with  a  fast 
mode,  capable  of  processing  2.000  returns — or  more! 

•  Best  Of  All... 

...and  this  is  really  exciting. ..MicroTax  allows  you  to  of 
fer  preyear-end  tax  planning  to  your 
clients — enabling  you  to  predict  the  potential  liability 
and  take  steps  to  minimize  the  tax  in  a  timely  manner. 


art  package  can  bring  to  your  practice: 

•  Complete  In-OfTlce  Security 

— no  risk  of  sensitive  client  information  falling  into  the 
wrong  hands. 

■  Saves  Time 

Compared  with  conventional  service  bureaus.  MicroTax 
offers  virtually  instant  turnaround  time. 

•  More  Professional 

Greater  range  of  services  allows  you  to  present  a  more 
professional  appearance  to  your  clients. 

■  Requirements: 

CP/M.  Microsoft  Basic  D  48K  Memory 

•  Introductory  Price  (  til  Dec.  1,  1980) 
MicroTax  is  available  as  a  three  part  system: 

Federal  Individual  $750.00    Annual  Updates 

State  Individual  250.00   Are  Available 

Corporate  250.00 


MicroTax  is  a  versatile  and  money-saving  tool  that  NO  tax  professional  should  be  without  (it's  been 
selected  for  use  by  COMPCI-TAX  of  Utah). 


Call  or  write  today  for  additional  information,  or  your  nearest  dealer.  Problems  that  can't  wait? 
Call  Don  White  our  V.P.  of  Research  and  Development,  direct,  at  (213)  668-0238. 


Circle  272  for  microTax 


Circle  58  for  SOFTWARE  Inc. 


microTciK 


Available  at  most 
Professional  computer  retailers 

Income  Tax  Software  Specialists 

s.aFxvMA.Ei.+  mc 

3600  WILSHIRE  BOULEVARD,  #1510.  LOS  ANGELES,  CALIFORNIA  90010  •  (213)  738-9972 


and  rich  symbol  set.  Eliminating 
alphanumeric  languages  is  not  such  a 
hot  idea,  except  in  turnkey  systems. 

The  second  conclusion  gestating 
for  the  past  ten  years  is  that  complete 
parallelism  is  necessary  for  control- 
ling images  in  meaningful  ways.  You 
simply  must  be  able  to  develop 
sequences  independently  and  merge 
them  in  ways  that  do  not  necessitate 
rewriting  the  programs.  Xerox's 
Smalltalk  and  certain  other  languages 
have  this  capability,  as  do  television 
technology  and  everyday  life:  making 
this  parallelism  easily  accessible  takes 
real  care. 

The  third  conclusion  is  that  a  flexi- 
ble priority  scheme  is  needed.  Some 
tasks  are  more  important  than  others, 
just  as  in  real  life  and  computer 
operating  systems.  It  is  essential  to 
give  this  capability  to  the  user  of  an 
electronic  visualization  system. 

Fourth,  providing  for  user  exten- 
sibility at  several  levels  is  the  only 
way  people  will  easily  be  able  to  use  a 
system  for  applications  not  envi- 
sioned by  the  designer.  I  will  discuss 
this  later. 

Fifth,  the  system  must  be  software- 
fault  tolerant.  Fault-tolerant  hard- 
ware has  been  a  research  area  of  great 
importance  to  real-time  control 
systems,  yet  language  purists  still 
think  people  should  solve  problems  in 
structured,  orthodox,  algorithmic 
ways.  A  computer  language  should 
provide  as  many  paths  to  a  given 
communication  as  possible,  as 
natural  languages  do,  and  the  kind  of 
error  handling  that  a  friend  would 
offer.  Allowing  nonstructured,  non- 
procedural, "seat-of-the-pants"  pro- 
gramming is  often  the  only  salvation 
when  the  final  goal  is  aesthetically 
defined,  and  is,  perhaps,  not  at  all 
clear.  It  has  been  called  "fuzzy 
programming,"  and  it's  easy  to  throw 
in  the  recursive,  value-returning, 
clever  structured-programming 
capabilities  as  well,  but  limiting 
yourself  to  these  latter  approaches 
stifles  human  creativity,  problem- 
solving,  and  sideways  thinking. 

Zgrass  —  A  Language  for  Easy 
Electronic  Visualization 

Zgrass  is  a  programming  language 
and  operating  system  written  in 
assembly  language  for  the  Z80 
microprocessor  by  Nola  Donato,  Jay 
Fenton,  and  me.  Not  surprisingly,  it 
embodies  all  the  control  structures 
mentioned  so  far  in  this  article  and 


THE  DAWN  OP 

ACE 


The  2nd  Generation  is  here! 


MEASUREMENT  systems  &  controls  proudly 
introduces  its  new  and  exciting  "2nd  Generation" 
family  of  S-100*  compatible  products.  Each  has 
been  specifically  designed  for  use  with 
multi-user  and  network 
operating  systems  such 
as  MP/M,  CP/NET,  and 
OASIS.  Every  product  is 
fully  tested  and  burned- 
in,  comes  with  a  1  year 
guarantee,  and  offers 
you  features  not 
currently  available  from 
any  other  source. 

Z80  PROCESSOR 
BOARD  —  The  most 
powerful  CPU  board  available  today.  Outstanding 
features  include  4MHz  operation,  high-speed  serial 
and  parallel  I/O  utilizing  DMA  or  programmed 
control,  eight  vectored  priority  interrupts,  and  a 
real  time  clock. 

MULTI-USER  SERIAL  I/O  BOARD  —  For  use  in 

expanded  systems  requiring  up  to  eight  additional 
serial  I/O  ports.  Features  include:  16  maskable 

'All  products  meet  the  new  IEEE  standards. 


Systems 


a  Division  of  MEASUREMENT  systems  &.  controls 

incorporated 


vectored  priority  interrupts,  RS-232C  interfaces 

with  full  handshake,  asynchronous  or  synchronous 

operation  with  asynchronous  baud  rates  to  19,200. 

Available  in  four  or  eight  channel  versions. 


DOUBLE  DENSITY 

FLOPPY  DISK 

CONTROLLER  BOARD- 

controls  up  to  four  51/4- 
inch  or  8-inch  disk  drives 
using  IBM  soft  sectored 
formats.  It  features  1K 
of  on-board  buffering, 
DMA  controlled  data 
transfers  and  the  per- 
formance character- 
istics of  the  superior 
NEC  765  chip. 


64K  BANK  SELECTABLE  MEMORY  BOARD  — 

Features  include  I/O  port  addressing  for  bank 

select  with  256  switch  selectable  I/O  ports  for  the 

memory  bank  addressing.  The  memory  is 

configured  as  four  totally  independent  16K 

software-selectable  banks,  with  each  bank 

addressable  on  any  16K  boundary. 

"Attractive  Dealer  &  OEM  Prices" 
~  See  your  nearest  computer  dealer,  or 

contact  us  for  the  complete  story  on 
The  2nd  Generation. 


867  North  Main  St.  /  Orange,  Calif.  92668 
(714)  633-4460    TWX  /  TELEX:  678  401  TAB  IRIN 


2a 


n  1  n      TIMING  FDR  1 
HDRIZDNTflL 
v  LINE  DF  VIDEO 

J     Jj  '— |  |+*++j  15  U5EC 

0  1 1  *  1 1  [ 1 1 i 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 rr | :: 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 f 1 1 1 


52.3  ♦       10.79  =  EH. 73  U5EC 


Photos  2a,  2b,  and  2c:  Sample  output  from  the  first  Zgrass  system,  with  a  resolution  of 
160  by  102  pixels,  with  2  bits  per  pixel.  Photo  2a  was  made  by  Copper  Giloth,  and 
photos  2b  and  2c  by  Nola  Donato. 


has  been  in  development  for  ten 
years. 

Zgrass  started  out  as  GRASS 
(Graphics  Symbiosis  System),  a 
language  designed  to  bring  the 
immense  complexity  of  a  Digital 
Equipment  Corporation  PDP-11 /45 
and  as  Vector  General  3DR  Display 
system  within  the  grasp  of  artists  and 
educators  at  Ohio  State  University.  It 
has  high  levels  of  interaction, 
parallelism,  priority,  and  tree- 
structured  manipulations  of  vector- 
defined  objects.  Photos  from  this 
system  can  be  seen  in  "About  the 
Cover...  And  Some  More  of  the 
Same,"  in  the  October  1977  BYTE, 
page  22. 

GRASS  depends  on  $120,000  of 
equipment  to  run  —  rather  expensive 
for  a  single-user  system  —  but  it  is 
one  of  the  first  highly  developed  non- 
FORTRAN  interactive  graphics 
systems  for  use  by  artists. 

In  1973,  Dan  Sandin,  inventor  of 
the  Image  Processor,  brought  color 
television  usage  to  our  computer 
graphics  work  at  the  University  of  Il- 
linois at  Chicago  Circle.  Dan  and  I 
developed  most  of  the  ideas  about 
control  structures  presented  here. 
Photos  la  and  lb  show  some  output 
from  the  GRASS/Image  Processor 
system. 

Generating  a  complete  program- 
ming language  with  parsers,  com- 
pilers, and  graphics  takes  a  lot  of 
human  effort.  More  than  ten  person- 
years  of  programming  were  devoted 
to  GRASS,  aided  by  generous  sup- 
port from  the  National  Science  Foun- 
dation, National  Endowment  for  the 
Arts,  and  others. 

GRASS  is  totally  oriented  toward 
real-time  generation  and  control  of 
images  for  the  simple  reason  that 
television  cannot  easily  be  slowed 
down  for  long  and  /or  time-lapse  ex- 
posures as  can  be  done  with  film.  The 
control  structures  for  GRASS  were 
developed  ad  hoc  and  became  in- 
creasingly idiosyncratic.  Nola 
Donato,  a  postgraduate  student  of 
mine,  decided  to  teach  me  how  to 
generalize  many  of  the  programming- 
language  concepts.  The  result  was 
GRASS3,  which  later  became  Zgrass. 

In  1977,  I  was  led  to  Jeff 
Frederiksen  at  Dave  Nutting 
Associates,  who  was  developing  a 
deluxe  home  computer  for  Bally  Cor- 
poration using  the  custom  integrated 
circuits  they  had  developed  for  the 
Bally  Arcade  video  game.  The  pros- 


96       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Don't  play  games 
with  your  company's  money. 


Our  entry  level  computer  system  is  the  first  step  in 
a  full  range  of  computer  products.  Not  the  last  step  in 
a  full  range  of  computer  games. 

We  call  it  VI P.  The  Vector  Intelligent  Partner.  And 
with  a  price  of  just  $3695,  you  can't  get  more  computer 
for  your  money. 

VIP  has  all  the  assets  and  none  of  the  liabilities  of 
other  entry  level  systems.  It  starts  off  with  a  lot  more 
disk  capacity.  It  has  the  same  computational  power,  uses 
the  same  software  as  our  larger  systems,  and  can 
be  upgraded  at  any  time.  So  you  avoid  the 
expense  of  new  hardware  and  software  when 
you  outgrow  your  current  system. 

You'l  I  be  able  to  do  low  cost  word  processing, 
mail  list  sorting,  database  management  and 
accounting.  You  can  even  do  software 
development. 

VIP  is  perfect  for  salesmen,  real  estate 
brokers,  insurance  agents,  small  business 
owners  and  corporate  department  heads. 
Because  at  Vector,  improving  your  business  is  the 
best  way  to  improve  our  business. 

For  information  contact  Vector,  31364  Via  Colinas, 
Westlake  Village,  CA  91362.  Or  call  213/991-2302. 


Economy  Sized  Computers 


Circle  59  on  Inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980         97 


Photo  3:  Sample  output  from  a  later  version  of  Zgrass,  with  a  resolution  of  320  by  204  pixels  with  2  bits  per  pixel.  Photo  3  was  made 
by  Frank  Dietrich. 


pect  of  developing  a  language  for 

fun,  one  that  had  user-orientation  as 
the  benchmark  rather  than  how  many 
FOR-NEXT  loops  you  could  execute 
per  unit  time  was  too  good  to  pass 
up.  I  was  contracted  to  produce 
Zgrass,  and  in  a  year,  Nola  Donato, 
Jay  Fenton  (a  legendary  wizard  of 
video  games  and  pinball-machine 
operating  systems),  and  I  had 
generated  9000  lines  of  code.  (Much 
of  the  work  was  done  not  in  a  lab  but 
in  a  cabin  in  the  woods  of 
Wisconsin!)  Examples  of  output  from 
this  system  are  seen  in  photos  2a,  2b, 
and  2c.  Note  that  the  resolution  of 
this  first  Zgrass  machine  is  160  by  102 
pixels  (ie:  picture  elements),  with  2 
bits  per  pixel. 

Some  confusion  arose  about 
whether  we  were  producing  a  hob- 
byist machine  or  a  home  computer 
for  consumers,  so  the  project  was 
suspended.  Even  now  nobody  really 
knows  what  a  "consumer  computer" 
is  supposed  to  be. 

98        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Ire 


From  consulting  with  less  en- 
lightened would-be  consumer  com- 
puter manufacturers,  I  have  perceiv- 
ed that  they  follow  the  rather 
negative  view  of  consumerism.  (Few 
people  reading  this  article  would  be 
considered  only  consumers  —  I 
assume  that  BYTE  readers  are  mostly 
hobbyists  or  professionals.)  Con- 
sumerism is  based  on  great  market 
penetration,  and  the  big  question  is: 
"How  do  you  get  90%  market 
penetration  like  color  TV?" 

It  is  also  based  on  consuming,  that 
is,  wearing  out  or  getting  sick  of 
hardware  and  software  so  you  go  buy 
more  and  consume  it.  The  user  is 
expected  to  supply  no  creativity,  just 
assume  a  passive,  susceptible-to- 
entertainment  pose  —  this  reminds 
you  of  television  watching,  doesn't  it? 
Well,  anything  requiring  creative 
energy  is  akin  to  hobbyism. 

Consumer  computers  do  exist  in 
the  form  of  video  games  that  you  can 
get  bored  with  and  buy  more  —  even 
the  advertisements  invariably  cite  the 


number  of  new  games  to  be  available 
each  month.  I  don't  know  how  to 
write  a  programming  language  that 
wears  out,  though.  User-extensibility 
is  planned  "nonobsolescence."  Zgrass 
is  not  a  consumer  language  by  current 
standards. 

The  project  is  on  active  status 
again,  but  this  time  with  a  hob- 
byist/professional orientation.  We 
believe  there  are  many  people  who 
want  a  recordable  image-producing 
system  for  around  $3000.  The  current 
configuration  includes: 

•  Z80  processor  with  16  K  bytes  of 
EPROM  and  48  K  bytes  of  pro- 
grammable memory 

•  custom  graphics  integrated  circuits 
and  floating-point  hardware 

•  dual  UARTs  (universal  asyn- 
chronous receiver/transmitters) 
for  connection  to  larger  com- 
puters, printers,  etc 

•  RBG  (red,  blue,  green)  monitor  for 
best  color  resolution 


Please  send  your  free  software  catalog. 

(Check  which  software  is  of  particular  interest) 

□  C  COMPILER.  Optimized  native  code  for  VAX  11/780,  PDP-11,  LSI-11,  Z80, 
8085,  8080.  Full  C  language  as  defined  in  Kernighan  and  Ritchie,  with  com- 
prehensive portable  library.  Cross  compilers  available.  Runs  under  VMS, 
IAS,  RSX-11D,  RSX-11M,  RSTS/E,  RT-11,  UNIX,  Idris,  CDOS,  CP/M.  From  $600 

□  IDRIS  OPERATING  SYSTEM.  System  calls  and  file  system  identical  to 
UNIX  V6,  including  pipelines.  Utilities  include  shell,  editor,  assembler, 
loader,  archiver,  compare,  copy,  grep,  etc.,  plus  system  utilities  for  file 
system  maintenance.  Runs  on  LSI-11,  PDP-11.  From  $1000. 

□  PASCAL  COMPILER.  Optimized  native  code  for  VAX  11/780,  PDP-11, 
LSI-11,  Z80,  8085,  8080.  Full  Pascal  language  as  defined  in  Jensen  and 
Wirth,  with  standard  library.  Includes  C  compiler  and  portable  library, 
permitting  intermixed  C  and  Pascal.  Cross  compilers  available.  Runs 
under  VMS,  IAS,  RSX-11D,  RSX-11M,  RSTS/E,  RT-11,  UNIX,  Idris,  CDOS, 
CP/M.  From  $750. 


Name_ 


Company_ 

Street 

City 


_State_ 


-Zip_ 


Idris  is  a  trademark  of  Whitesmiths  Ltd 
UNIX  is  a  trademark  of  Beil  Laboratories. 
CP/M  is  a  trademark  of  Digital  Research  Co 


VMS,  RSX-11,  RT-11.  RSTS/E,  VAX, 
PDP-11,  LSI-11  are  trademarks  of  Digital 
Equipment  Corporation. 


Whitesmiths,  Ltd 

Software  for  grownups. 

(212)799-1200 

ROB.  1132  Ansonia  Station,  New  York,  NY.  10023 


•  alphanumeric  terminal  (which  the 
user  provides) 

•  provision  for  floppy  disks,  tablet, 
other  I/O  (input/output)  devices 

Eight  Zgrass  units  in  this  configura- 
tion have  been  alive  and  well  and  tied 
into  the  Bell-Laboratory-developed 
UNIX  operating  system  since  January 
1980.  Although  I  have  only  discussed 
software  design,  I  must  mention  that 
the  hardware  to  test  the  concepts  real- 
ly exists!  See  photo  3  and  note  that 
the  resolution  is  now  320  by  204  pix- 
els, with  2  bits  used  per  pixel. 

Details  of  Zgrass  Control  Struc- 
tures 

Programs  in  Zgrass  are  called 
macros.  Macros  are  stored  as  ASCII 
(American  Standard  Code  for  Infor- 
mation Interchange)  character  strings 
and  normally  contain  executable 
Zgrass  commands.  The  fundamental 
unit  of  execution  in  Zgrass  is  a  com- 
mand, which  is  either  an  assignment 
statement  or  a  function  call. 

Zgrass  does  not  require  declaration 
of  variable  types  (with  the  exception 
of  array  dimensioning).  The  software 
automatically   does   all   conversions 


that  make  sense  based  on  the  context. 
Any  argument  can  be  a  function  call 
whose  returned  value  is  converted  to 
whatever  is  needed,  if  at  all  possible. 
Literals,  indirect  references, 
variables,  built-in  commands,  user- 
defined  commands,  and  user-defined 
macros  are  all  handled  by  the  same 
parser,  so  the  syntax  is  very  predict- 
able. The  fact  that  there  are  no 
restrictions  on  name  length  helps  to 
produce  easily  read  code. 

User-Level  Extensibility 

Extensibility  in  Zgrass  is  achieved 
in  two  major  ways.  First,  you  can 
write  macros  which  return  values, 
produce  graphics,  or  ask  questions; 
or,  through  string-manipulation 
primitives  written  by  Barb  Wilson, 
you  can  generate  other  macros. 
Macros  use  arguments  in  exactly  the 
same  way  as  system  commands,  and 
are  even  named  and  called  like  system 
commands. 

To  reiterate,  macros  are  simply 
strings  of  ASCII  characters.  When  a 
macro  is  called,  an  MIB  (Macro  Invo- 
cation Block)  is  automatically  built.  It 
gives  information  on  the  invoking 
function   call,    the   passed-argument 


REAL 
INTE 

FORYQ 


Com 

industry 

control 

tical  wi 

A/D  + 

conversio 

freq 

tionsjs 

caret 

If  y&&^e|got  a  data  S€; 

or  contr^rafeElication, 


3$K 


HardwareCfi^!rarap!. 
A/D  +  D/A.  Drop  by  you 
dealer  and  put  your  world  on  a 
silver  platter. 

U*       Mountain  Hardware 

K4k         LEADERSHIP  IN  COMPUTER  PERIPHERALS 

■^  A  Division  of  Mountain  Computer,  inc. 

■^8"  300  Harvey  West  Blvd  .  Santa  Cm*,  CA  95060 

(408)429.8600     : 


output 

p)  ff&  ©2tfiw(yisten  ttirife 

^IS&wlg&Uiitea 

iQ\m.ii\liiQ  umnufii  Gouts. 

Jsfchfeu'ieitefe,  ij&tls  Itei*  sxi 


list,  and  pointers  to  local  variables, 
and  provides  room  for  the  returned 
value.  MIBs  form  a  stack  which  im- 
plements the  subroutining  and  block 
structuring  of  the  language.  When  the 
macro  returns,  the  MIB  is  deleted 
along  with  the  local  variables  and 
unused  literal  arguments,  if  any,  and 
control  is  passed  back  to  the  caller. 

If  arguments  are  to  be  passed  to  a 
macro,  they  are  read  by  the  normal 
input  command,  and  print  statements 
are  suppressed  as  long  as  there  are 
arguments  left.  If  no  arguments  are 
present  or  an  insufficient  number  are 
passed,  the  print  statements  function 
normally  and  the  macro  asks  for 
input  from  the  terminal.  This  allows 
macros  to  be  used  whether  or  not  you 
know  the  arguments  wanted,  with  no 
extra  code  by  the  author  of  the 
macro. 

Macros  can  also  be  executed  in 
parallel  as  background  jobs.  When 
called  and  suffixed  by  a  ".B",  the 
Macro  Invocation  Block  is  added  to  a 
background  linked  list.  After  that, 
the  macro  will  run  forever  (it  restarts 
at  the  beginning  when  it  tries  to 
return)  until  Control-C  or  the  stop 
command  selectively  kills  it.  Photo  2c 
shows  two  sorting  algorithms  being 
compared  for  execution  speed  in  real 
time,  a  tricky  task  in  most  languages, 
easy  in  Zgrass. 

The  background  parallelism  is 
achieved  by  interleaving  execution  of 
the  macro  statements.  The  MIB  con- 
tains all  relevant  context  for  execu- 
tion, including  a  pointer  to  the  next 
command  to  execute,  so  switching 
MIBs  after  each  line  has  been  com- 
pleted is  simple  and  gives  the  func- 
tional parallelism.  If  there  are  five 
background  macros,  each  one  gets  a 
line  executed,  in  turn,  round-robin 
fashion.  This  construct  is  simple  and 
straightforward  with  no  bizarre  side- 
effects  except  that  unusually  time- 
consuming  commands  will  make  the 
parallelism  temporally  step 
somewhat.  Background  interleaving 
is  easily  understood  and  used  even  by 
the  most  naive  users. 

Meanwhile,  the  keyboard  is  still 
active.  When  the  user  types  a  com- 
mand line,  it  is  executed  at  a  higher 
priority  than  the  background  macros. 
If  the  user  initiates  a  macro  at 
keyboard  level,  it  will  finish  before 
the  background  macros  continue.  In 
any  event,  the  keyboard  overrides  the 
background,  again  in  an  obvious, 
predictable  way. 


100        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  61  on  inquiry  card. 


COMPUTERS-TERMINALS-MODEMS! 


NEW! 

TI-99/4  Home  Computer 


Optional  color  monitor 
$449 

Main  console  unit 

$889 

(Includes  RF  modulator  for  use  with  any  TV) 

Write  for  a  list  of  extensive 
program  modules  available — 
everything  in  games,  education, 
and  home  computer  applications. 


NEW! 

From  Perkin-Elmer 
1250  Super  Owl 


$1799 


Intelligent  CRT 

Incredibly  powerful  and  flexible 


24  fully  programmable  function  keys 

Full  screen  editing  capabilities 

RAM  memory  for  down  line  loading  by 

host  computer 

Built-in  printer  port 

Full  polling  capabilities 

Detachable  keyboard 

Optional  light  pen 

Much  more! 


Penril  300/1200  Modem 

Connect  any  compuler  or  lerminal  to  the  phone  lines. 


$799 


•  1200  Baud-Bell  212A 

•  300  Baud 

•  Originate/Auto  answer 

•  Full  duplex 

•  RS232 

•  1  year  warranty 


Direct  connection  to  the  phone  lines 

via  RJ11C  standard  extension  phone  jack 


USR-330  Modem 

•  0-300  Baud— Bell  103/113 

•  Originate/ Auto  answer 

•  Half/Full  duplex 

•  RS232 

•  1  year  warranty 

$339 


Direct  connection  to  the  phone  lines 

via  RJ 1 IC  standard  extension  phone  jack 


USR-1600P  Computer 

NEW!     f^ 

$4099 

PASCAL 

With  power  and  speed  for 

business,  educational, 
and  scientific  applications. 

W.D.  Microengine-based  single 
board  computer  with  64K  RAM 

•  1  megabyte  of  floppy  disc 

•  2  parallel  ports 

•  2  serial  ports 

•  Floppy  disc  controller  with  DMA 

•  File  manager 

•  Screen  oriented  editor 

•  Single  cabinet  design 

•  Includes  power  supply 


Perkin-Elmer 
Bantam  550  CRT 


The  Phone-Link      «,--«»,, 
Acoustic  Modem    NEW! 


$749 


•  Transparent  mode 

•  Addressable  cursor 

•  Editing  functions 

•  Upper/lower  case 

•  Compact 


Sleek,  low  profile 

0-300  Baud 

Originate/ Answer  modes 

Half/Full  duplex 

Self-test 

RS232— Will  work  with  any  RS232 

computer  or  terminal 

LED  displays  of  all  functions 

1  year  warranty 

At  your  computer  store  now! 


$179 


Perkin-Elmer  650/655 

CRT  Page  Printer 

•  100  CPS 

•  Quiet 

•  Compact 

•  RS232 

•  Can  be  added  to 
any  CRT  with  our  $999 
interface  option. 

The  printer  designed  to  give  you  rapid,  reli 
able,  hard  copy  of  your  CRT  screen  display. 


DEC  LA34 

$969 


Teletype  43  plug  compatible 
Variable  character  sizes 
Full  width  paper 
Many  more  features 
Write  for  print  sample 


Teletype  Model  43KSR  $1049 
Microterm  Mime  HA  CRT  $819 
Microterm  ACT  VA $779 


.o 


We  offer  full  service,  on-site  maintenance  plans  on  all  equipment. 
Any  product  may  be  returned  within  10  days  for  a  full  refund. 


U.S.  ROBOTICS  .imc 

203  N.WABASH     SUITE  17IB     CHICAGO,  ILL  60601 


SALES 


SERVICE 


[3123  34B-5BBO 
[3123  3-46-5651 
(3123  733-D-4S7 


The  user  may  also  specify  pro- 
grams to  run  as  the  result  of  a  clock 
interrupt.  When  a  macro  call  is  suf- 
fixed by  a  ".¥",  the  Macro  Invocation 
Block  is  chained  into  a  list  that  is 
polled  every  1/60  second.  The  user 
sets  the  frequency  of  execution  from  1 
to  32,768  sixtieths  of  a  second.  These 
foreground  macros  execute  on  a 
higher  priority  level  than  the 
keyboard  and  background  macros  so 
they  will  start  up  just  about  on  time 
(again,  delayed  only  by  a  time- 
consuming  graphics  command). 
Foreground  macros  allow  a  keyboard 
command  to  be  slipped  in  during  con- 
text switching. 

Zgrass,  then,  has  three  effective 
levels  of  priority  with  parallelism  at 
two  of  the  three  levels.  Since  the 
Macro  Invocation  Block  maintains  all 
context  information,  even  recursive 
programming  is  possible  at  any  level. 

One  of  the  severe  problems  in 
interpretive,  extensible  languages  like 
Zgrass  is  the  overhead  of  parsing  and 
looking  up  names  in  name  tables.  For 
this  reason,  Zgrass  has  a  compiler 
which  eliminates  the  overhead  and 
dramatically  increases  speed.  All  the 
automatic  conversions,  priority,  and 


parallelism  continue  to  work.  Com- 
piling does  eliminate  some  of  the 
interactive  debugging  features,  so 
you  usually  debug  on  the  noncom- 
piled  version  first. 

Zgrass  System  Extensibility 

Zgrass  also  allows  extensibility  at 
the  system-command  level.  A  system 
such  as  this  should  allow  an  experi- 
enced programmer  to  write  new  com- 
mands in  assembler  and  interface 
them  to  the  system  easily,  certainly 
without  changing  the  EPROMs 
(erasable,  programmable  read-only 
memories).  A  transfer  vector  in  low 
memory  and  a  series  of  Z80  RST 
(special  restart  subroutine-call)  in- 
structions allow  communication  with 
about  one  hundred  system  routines 
which  do  parsing,  type  conversion, 
graphics  primitives,  and  so  on. 

Documentation  explains  what 
these  routines  do,  and  anyone  with  a 
cross  assembler  (or  patience  for  hand 
assembly)  can  write  new  commands 
of  which  the  system  has  no  prior 
knowledge.  Such  extensibility  allows 
virtually  infinite  variety  of  specialty 
graphics  commands,  device  drivers, 
and    so    forth    to    be    written    and 


SOFTWARE  ENGINEERS 

WE'RE  KNOWN  BY  THE  COMPANY  WE  KEEP. 

Wescom,  Inc.  has  joined  with  Rockwell  International.  This  move  will  strengthen  our  al- 
ready envious  industry  standing.  We  are  seeking  bright  professionals  interested  in  a 
career  at  the  leading  edge  of  the  telecommunications  industry. 

These  positions  require  a  BSEE  or  BSCS  with  a  minimum  of  1-3  years  software  design 
experience.  Experience  in  control  processing,  real  time,  and/or  8080  ASSEMBLY 
language  is  considered  a  plus. 

SYSTEMS  SOFTWARE 

Provide  the  design  for  new  call  processing  features  and  systems,  modular  functional 
descriptions  and  interfaces,  software  architectural  and  data  base  design. 

OPERATING  SYSTEMS  SOFTWARE 

Design  and  develop  software  that  maintains  a  system  that's  operated  by  stored  pro- 
gram control.  Involvement  also  includes  design  and  implementation  of  administrative 
diagnostic  and  fault  recovery  programs. 

SOFTWARE  METHODOLOGY 

Explore  and  intitate  software  techniques  for  future  switching  systems  develop- 
ment. Areas  of  interest  include  structured  design  techniques,  high-level  languages, 
documentation  schemes  and  software  testing  mechanisms. 

We  offer  a  competitive  salary,  generous  benefits  and  the  assurance  that  you'll  be  in 
good  company  with  an  innovative  leader  in  the  design,  development  and  manufacture 
of  sophisticated  telephone  equipment  and  systems. 

We  are  an  equal  opportunity  employer.  Minorities,  women  and  handicapped  are  en- 
couraged to  apply.  For  more  information,  send  a  letter  or  resume,  or  call: 

Dennis  Kebrdle  .^l^. 

Wescom, Inc.  ^II^A  Rockwell 

Rockwell  International  ^Pl^B  jiv^rvwcii 

8245  s.  Lemont  Rd.  ^^L^  international 

Downers  Grove,  IL  6051 5  ^^ 


(312)  985-9000,  ext.  2349 


..where  science  gets  down  to  business 


distributed  to  others  on  audio  tape, 
disk,  or  over  telephone  lines.  Terry 
Disz  wrote  a  debugging  program  used 
as  a  disk-resident  command  for  set- 
ting break-points,  dumping  memory 
and  registers  and  so  on.  This  capabili- 
ty is  not  for  everyone,  but  it's  there. 

The  maximum  size  of  one  of  these 
user-written  nonresident  commands 
is  4  K  bytes.  Since  the  typical  Zgrass 
machine  has  30  K  bytes  of  program- 
mable memory,  the  amount  of  poten- 
tial custom  code  is  immense.  All 
housekeeping  for  storage  allocation 
and  deletion,  maintenance  of  tem- 
porary scratch-pad  areas  and  general 
cleanup  is  done  by  system  routines. 
You  only  concentrate  on  the  details, 
obeying  a  few  rules  for  writing 
position-independent  code. 

One  further  type  of  extensibility  is 
easy  to  get.  Zgrass  has  an  extra 
UART  which  talks  to  other  com- 
puters quite  nicely.  Larger  computers 
can  send  graphics  and  character  data 
to  your  Zgrass  machine.  Zgrass  units 
can  even  talk  to  one  another  at  up  to 
19.2  k  bps! 

Error  Handling,  Debugging  and 
Automated  Instruction 

Zgrass  was  designed  from  the 
beginning  to  be  a  language  for  writing 
CAI  (computer-aided  instruction) 
programs.  In  particular,  it  was 
designed  to  be  self -teaching  to  a  fairly 
high  degree.  When  Zgrass  is  used  as  a 
CAI  system,  the  result  of  providing 
parallelism,  string  manipulation,  and 
good  error  handling  is  that  the  stu- 
dent always  has  the  power  of  the 
whole  language  to  explore  while  the 
author  of  the  CAI  programs  is  also  in 
control. 

Since  macros  are  character  strings, 
they  can  be  built  and  executed.  You 
can  take  student  input,  make  it  into  a 
program  (before  the  student  even 
knows  how  to  edit),  let  parameters  be 
changed,  show  the  results,  and  verify 
certain  classes  of  results  both  during 
execution  and  after.  The  approaches 
we  have  taken  to  Zgrass  CAI  are 
beyond  the  scope  of  this  article,  so  I 
will  just  mention  the  system  features 
which  make  CAI  possible. 

Error-handling  routines  normally 
generate  error-message  numbers  on 
the  terminal.  There  are  about  sixty  of 
them  and  they  are  quite  specific.  Dur- 
ing regular  programming,  they  are 
used  in  conjunction  with  single  step- 
ping, variable  printing  and  other 
debugging     techniques     to     identify 


102       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  62  on  Inquiry  card. 


We  designed  a  computer  family 
that  multiplies  dealer  sales." 


Geof  Karl  in 

Director  of  Systems  Development 

"At  ADDS,  we've  just  designed  a  unique  computer 
family  that  multiplies  your  selling  power  because  it 
expands  customers'  computing  power. 

"We  call  it  ADDS  Multivision-a  trio  of  stacking, 
CP/M®-compatible  computers  that  lets  users  upgrade 
without  any  change  in  their  programs.  It  works  like  this: 

"MULTI VISION  1  (top  module)  is  a  get-started 
computer  with  a  5  MHz  processor,  64K  bytes  of  RAM 
and  mini  disk  storage  capacity  of  700K  bytes.  It  lists 
for  $3,785  without  terminal. 

"MULTIVISION  2  (top  and  bottom  modules)  pro- 
vides 5M  or  10M  bytes  of  hard-disk  storage.  Priced 
thousands  less  than  other  hard-disk  systems,  it  lists  for 
$7,995  with  5M  bytes  of  disk. 

"MULTIVISION  3  (entire  stack)  tops  off  the  line, 
giving  you  a  multi-user  system  with  up  to  256K  bytes 
of  RAM  that  supports  up  to  four  display  terminals 
simultaneously. 

"We  even  offer  an  ADDS-developed  package  that 
lets  Multivision  function  as  a  word  processor. 

"Since  its  introduction  at  the  NCC,  thousands 
have  inquired  where  to  buy  Multivision.  We'd  like  to 
give  them  your  name." 

For  information  on  dealer  opportunities,  write: 
S.  Eric  McErlain,  Systems  Division,  Applied  Digital  Data 
Systems  Inc.,  100  Marcus  Boulevard,  Hauppauge, 
N.Y  11787 

CP/M  is  a  registered  trademark  of  Digital  Research,  Inc. 
See  us  at  COMDEX  '80,  Booth  304. 


SOMETHING  EXTRA  IN  EVERYTHING  WE  00 


Circle  63  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980         103 


Your  vehicle  for  com 

The  Challenger  8P  DF. 


The  general  purpose  microcomputer 
was  first  introduced  as  a  computer 
for  hobbyists  and  experimenters. 
However,  as  the  industry  has  grown, 
microcomputers  have  become 
specialized  for  personal  use  or  for 
small  business  use.  There  is  virtually 
no  computer  for  the  serious  experi- 
menter with  one  important  exception, 
the  Ohio  Scientific  Challenger  8R 

The  C8P  is  unique  in  that  it  incor- 
porates the  features  of  state-of-the- 
art  personal  computers,  with  the 
memory  and  disk  storage  capacity 
of  business  computers,  along  with 
the  "mainframe"  bus  architecture 
and  open  ended  expansion  capability 
of  industrial  control  computers. 

Personal  Computer 
Features 

The  C8PDF's  specs 
beat  all  personal 
computers  hands 
down.  It  executes 
instructions  two 
to  three  times 
faster,  and 
displays  more 
alphabetic 
characters 
on  its  screen 
than  other 


models.  It  has  upper  and  lower  case 
and  graphics  in  16  colors.  The  C8P's 
standard  I/O  capabilities  are  far 
more  extensive  than  any  other  com- 
puter, with  joystick  and  keypad  inter- 
faces, sound  output,  an  8-bit  D/A 
converter,  16  parallel  I/O  lines, 
modem  and  printer  interfaces,  AC 
remote  control  and  security  monitor 
interfaces  and  a  universal  acces- 
sory port  that  accepts  a  prom  blaster, 
12-bit  analog  I/O  module,  solderless 
prototyping  board  and  more. 

Ohio  Scientific  offers  a  large  library 
of  personal  applications  programs, 
including  exciting  action  games 
such  as  Invaders  and  Star  Trek, 
sports  simulations,  games  of  logic 


and  educational  games,  personal 
applications  such  as  biorhythms, 
calorie  counter,  home  programs 
such  as  checking  and  savings 
account  balancers  and  a  home 
budgeter  just  to  name  a  few.  A  new 
Plot  BASIC  makes  elaborate  anima- 
tions easy,  and  music  composition 
program  allows  you  to  play  complex 
multi-part  music  through  the  com- 
puters DAC. 

At  the  systems  level  the  machine 
comes  standard  with  OS-65D,  an  ad- 
vanced disk  operating  system  with 
Microsoft  BASIC  and  an  interactive 
Assembler  Editor.  Optional  software 
includes  UCSD  PASCAL  and 
FORTRAN  and  an  Information 
Management  System  (OS-MDMS). 
Dozens  of  independent  software 
suppliers  now  also  offer  personal 
programs  for  the  C8P 


puter  explorations 


Business  Computer  Features 

The  C8P  DF  utilizes  dual  8"  floppy 
disk  drives  which  store  up  to  eight 
times  as  much  information  as  per- 
sonal computer  mini-floppies,  and 
an  available  double-sided  option 
expands  capacity  to  1.2  megabytes 
of  on-line  storage.  The  C8P  DF  is 
compatible  with  Ohio  Scientific's 
business  computer  software,  in- 
cluding OS-65U  an  advanced  oper- 
ating system,  and  an  Information 
Management  System  (OS-DMS)  with 
supplementary  inventory,  account- 
ing, A/R-A/P,  payroll,  purchasing, 
estimation,  educational  grading  and 
financial  modeling  packages.  The 
system  also  supports  word  process- 
ing (WP-3)  and  a  fully  integrated 
small  business  accounting  system 
(OS-AMCAP  V1 .6).  The  C8P  DF's 
standard  modem  and  printer  ports 
accept  high-speed  matrix  printers 
and  word-processing  printers  directly. 

Home  Control  and 
Industrial  Control 

The  C8P  DF  has  the  most  advanced 
home  monitoring  and  control  capa- 
bilities ever  offered  in  a  computer 
system.  It  incorporates  a  real  time 
clock  and  a  unique  FOREGROUND/ 
BACKGROUND  operating  system 
which  allows  the  computer  to 
function  with  normal  BASIC  pro- 
grams, at  the  same  time  it  is 
monitoring  external  devices. 
The  C8P  DF  comes  standard 
with  an  AC  remote  control 

interface,  which 


allows  it  to  control  a  wide  range  of 
AC  appliances  and  lights  remotely, 
without  wiring,  and  an  interface  for 
home  security  systems  which  moni- 
tors fire,  intrusion,  car  theft,  water 
levels  and  freezer  temperature,  all 
without  messy  wiring.  In  addition, 
the  C8P  DF  can  accept  Ohio  Scien- 
tific's Votrax  voice  I/O  board  and/or 
Ohio  Scientific's  new  universal 
telephone  interface  (UTI).  The  tele- 
phone interface  connects  the  com- 
puter to  any  telephone  line.  The 
computer  system  is  able  to  answer 
calls,  initiate  calls  and  communicate 
via  touch-tone  signals,  voice  output 
or  300  baud  modem  signals.  It  can 
accept  and  decode  touch-tone 
signals,  300  baud  modem  signals 
and  record  incoming  voice 
messages.  These  features  collec- 
tively give  the  C8P  DF  capabilities  to 
monitor  and  control  home  functions 
with  almost  human-like  capabilities. 

For  process  control  applications,  a 
battery  back  up  calendar  clock  with 
automatic  computer  restart  capabili- 
ties is  available.  Ohio  Scientific's 
unique  accessory  ports  allow  the 
connection  of  a  nearly  unlimited 
number  of  48  line  parallel  I/O  cards 
and  12-bit  high  speed  instrumenta- 
tion quality  analog  I/O  modules  to 
the  computer  by  inexpensive  16-pin 
ribbon  cables. 

Exploring  New  Frontiers 

Ohio  Scientific's  vocalizer  software 
processes  normal  BASIC  print  state- 
ments with  conventional  spellings 
and  speaks  them  clearly  in  real-time 


on  computers  equipped  with  the  UTI 
(CA-15B  or  CA-14A).  This  voice  out- 
put capability,  combined  with  the 
C8P's  remote  control,  remote  sens- 
ing, telephone  interface  capabilities 
and  reasonable  cost  open  up  new 
frontiers  for  computer  applications. 

Documentation 

The  C8P  DF  is  not  a  beginner's  com- 
puter and  doesn't  come  with  begin- 
ner's documentation.  However,  Ohio 
Scientific  does  offer  detailed 
documentation  on  the  computer 
which  is  meaningful  for  experts, 
including  a  Howard  Sams  produced 
hardware  service  manual  that  in- 
cludes detailed  block  diagrams, 
schematics,  parts  placement  dia- 
grams and  parts  lists.  Ohio  Scientific 
is  now  also  offering  fully 
documented  Source  Code  in 
machine  readable  form  for  OS-65D, 
the  Challenger  8P's  operating 
system  allowing  experimenters  and 
industrial  users  to  customize  the 
system  to  their  specific  applications. 

What's  Next? 

Ohio  Scientific  is  working  on  a 
speech  recognizer  to  complement 
the  UTI  system,  with  a  several  hun- 
dred word  vocabulary.  The  company 
is  also  developing  an  8  megabyte 
low-cost,  add-on  hard  disk  for  use  in 
conjunction  with  natural  language 
parsing  to  further  advance  the  state- 
of-the-art  in  small  computers.  The 
modular  bus  architecture  of  the  C8P 
assures  system  owners  of  being 
able  to  make  use  of  these  new 
developments  as  they  become 
available  just  as  the  owner  of  a  1976 
vintage  Challenger  can  directly  plug 
in  voice  output,  the  UTI  and  other 
current  state-of-the-art  OSI 
products. 

The  C8P  DF  with  dual  8"  floppies, 
BASIC  and  two  operating  systems 
costs  about  $3000,  only  slightly 
more  than  you  would  pay  for  a  dual 
mini-floppy  equipped  personal  com- 
puter with  only  a  fraction  of  the 
capabilities  of  the  C8P 

For  more  information  and  the 
name  of  the  dealer  nearest  you, 
call  1-800-321-6850  toll  free. 


1333  SOUTH  CHILLICOTHE  ROAD 
AURORA,  OH  44202  •  [21 6]  831  -5600 


Circle  64  on  inquiry  card. 


problems.  When  teaching,  however, 
the  CAI  program  must  trap  errors. 
These  fall  into  three  types:  syntax, 
nontermination,  and  logic. 

To  trap  syntax  errors,  you  should 
use  the  ONERROR  command  which 
transfers  the  control  to  a  diagnostic 
section  of  the  program  that  you,  as  a 
CAI  author,  will  have  provided. 
There  you  can  get  the  error  number, 
the  erroneous  argument,  and  even  the 
entire  ASCII  text  of  the  line  in  error 
with  the  GETERROR  command.  You 
can  then  explain  the  problem  to  the 
user  in  whatever  level  of  detail  you 
wish. 

Indefinite  loops  are  caught  with  the 
LOOPMAX  command  which  sets  a 
limit  to  the  number  of  control 
transfers  (ie:  skips  and  GOTOs). 
Once  the  limit  is  exceeded,  an  error  is 
generated  and  trapped  as  explained 


earlier.  So,  you  can  catch  nonter- 
minating  programs  or  be  very 
meticulous  and  require  efficiency 
from  advanced  students  by  lowering 
the  LOOPMAX  appropriately. 

Logic  errors  are  trickier  and  the 
general  case  is  impossible.  However, 
if  you  choose  suitable  problems  to 
solve,  you  can  do  some  very  nice 
verification.  For  graphic  tasks,  the 
CMPARA  command  can  check  a  stu- 
dent's building  of  an  image  against  a 
prototype.  The  CAI  author  can  tell  if 
the  student's  image  is  a  proper  subset 
of  the  prototype  and  let  it  continue. 
Once  a  stray  pixel  is  written, 
CMPARA  returns  a  value  of  —2 
which  means  the  image  is  "mixed  up," 
and  you  inform  the  student  im- 
mediately. This  approach  clearly  falls 
short  of  genuine  artificial  intelligence, 
but  it  is  nevertheless  quite  useful. 


Several  classes  at  the  University  of 
Illinois  at  Chicago  Circle  have  been 
taught  with  great  success  using  a 
GRASS-coded  prototype  (called 
GAIN,  by  Tom  Towle). 

Conclusions 

Zgrass  is  a  language/system 
designed  to  provide  easy  access  to 
computer  graphics  and,  in  general,  to 
computing.  It  has  sophisticated  real- 
time structures  and  control  capabili- 
ty, and  it's  friendly,  extensible,  and 
fun.  The  language  is  more  efficient 
than  BASIC,  more  user-oriented  than 
FORTRAN  or  Pascal,  and  it  has  the 
kind  of  language-control  structures 
that  will  help  you  create  your  mind's 
fantastic  visualizations  on  your  video 
screen  with  more  ease  than  ever 
before.  ■ 


Glossary 

Color:  The  256  colors  available  in 
Zgrass  form  an  abbreviated 
spectrum.  You  can  get  four 
colors  on  the  screen  at  any  one 
time.  The  default  colors  are 
white,  red,  green,  and  blue. 
They  are  also  known  as  color  0, 
color  1,  color  2,  and  color  3. 
The  values  are  stored  in  $L0, 
$L1,  $12,  and  $L3  unless  you 
modify  $HB  to  use  the  right-side 
colors  $R0,  $Rl,  $R2,  and  $R3. 

Color  Map:  The  color  map  is  the 
way  Zgrass  translates  color  0 
thru  color  3  to  the  256  available 
colors.  The  hardware  looks  at 
the  values  of  $L0  thru  $13 
before  it  writes  a  pixel  to  the 
screen.  If  it  is  writing  a  0,  it  uses 
the  color  stored  in  $L0;  if  it  is 
writing  a  1,  it  uses  the  color 
stored  in  $Ll,  and  so  on.  To 
change  the  color  map  so  1  refers 
to  yellow  instead  of  red,  set  $Ll 
to  127.  There  are  actually  two 
color  maps,  the$Lsandthe$Rs. 
You  get  to  the  $Rs  by  setting 
$HB. 

Color  Option:  The  possible  values 
for  color  option  are  0  thru  15. 
You  may  need  to  study  your 
truth  tables  for  inclusive-OR 
and  exclusive-OR  (XOR)  logical 
operations  to  really  understand 
what's  going  on.  The  following 
is  functionally  true,  however: 


Color 

Option      Meaning 

0  replace  with  color  0 
(white) 

1  replace  with  color  1  (red) 

2  replace  with  color  2 
(green) 

3  replace  with  color  3 
(blue) 

4  don  r  draw  (actually  XOR 
with  00) 

5  XOR  screen  with  color  1 
(01  binary) 

6  XOR  screen  with  color  2 
(10  binary) 

7  XOR  screen  with  color  3 
(11  binary) 

8  change  red  to  white,  blue 
to  green  (clear  bit  0) 

9  change  green  to  white, 
blue  to  red  (clear  bit  1) 

10  OR  with  01  (if  red  or 
white,  stay  red;  if  blue  or 
green,  stay  blue) 

11  OR  with  10  (if  green  or 
white,  stay  green;  if  red 
or  blue,  stay  blue) 

12  replace  with  red  only  if 
white  were  there 

13  replace  with  green  only  if 
white  or  red  were  there 

14  increment  the  color  there 
by  1  (white  to  red,  red  to 
green,  green  to  blue,  and 
blue  to  white) 

15  decrement  the  color  there 
by  1  (white  to  blue,  red 
to  white,  green  to  red, 
and  blue  to  green) 


Macro:  A  string  that  is  supposed  to 
contain  legal  Zgrass  commands. 
Most  programming  languages 
call  such  things  "programs"  or 
"subroutines, "  but  we  call  them 
macros.  Macros  are  effectively 
user-defined  commands. 
Macros  can  behave  just  like 
commands  in  the  sense  that  you 
can  pass  arguments  to  macros 
with  the  INPUT  command  and 
return  values  with  the  RETURN 
command.  You  define  a  macro 
just  like  you  define  a  string, 
with  an  assignment  to  a  name  or 
by  using  EDIT. 

String:  A  collection  of  characters 
(ie:  numbers,  letters,  punctua- 
tion) delimited  (ie:  enclosed)  by 
single  or  double  quotes  or 
balanced  (ie:  enclosed)  by 
brackets  or  braces.  If  you  have 
to  use  a  string  delimiter  in  a 
string,  make  sure  that  it  is 
delimited  by  a  different  string 
delimiter  or  things  will  get  very 
confused.  Most  likely  it  will 
consider  the  rest  of  your  macro 
as  part  of  the  string.  Examples: 

"THIS  IS  A  LONGER  STRING" 

"PRINT  A*B*C 

SKIP     -1     ;.TH1S    STRING 

COULD  BE  A  MACRO  TOO" 

[THIS  IS  HOW  TO  PUT  A 

QUOTE  IN  A  STRING:  "  '  "/ 

I1234J 

11 


106       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  65  on  Inquiry  card. 


SupetSoft     First  in  Software  Technology 


ENHANCED  'TINY'  PASCAL 

We  still  call  it  'Tiny'  but  it's  bigger  and  better  than  ever!  This  is 
the  Famous  Chung/Yuen  Tiny'  Pascal  with  more  features  includ- 
ing recursive  procedures/functions  &  disk  I/O. 
'Tiny'  Pascal  is  fast.  Programs  execute  up  to  ten  times  faster 
than  similar  BASIC  programs. 

SOURCE  TOO!  We  still  distribute  source,  in  'Tiny'  Pascal,  on 
each  discette  sold.  You  can  even  recompile  the  compiler,  add 
features  or  just  gain  insight  into  compiler  construction. 

'Tiny'  Pascal  is  perfect  for  writing  text  processors,  real  time 
control  systems,  virtually  any  application  which  requires  high 
speed.  Requires:  36K  CP/M.  Supplied  with  complete  user  manual 
and  source  on  discette:  $85.00  Manual  alone  $10.00 


StackWork's  FORTH 

A  full,  extended  FORTH  interpreter/compiler  produces  COMPACT, 

ROMABLE  code.  As  fast  as  compiled  FORTRAN,  as  easy  to  use 

as  interactive  BASIC. 

SELF  COMPILING:  Includes  every  line  of  source  code  necessary 

to  recompile  itself. 

EXTENSIBLE:  Adds  functions  at  will. 

Z80or  8080  ASSEMBLER   included 

Single  license,  OEM  licensing  available 

Please  specify  CPU  type:  Z80  or  8080 

Requires:  32K  CP/M. 

Supplied  with  extensive  user  manual  and  tutorial:  $150.00 

Documentation  alone:  $25.00 


Protect  your  software  investment  by  buying  source!  Prevent  obsolescence,  create  custom  versions, 
or  use  our  systems  as  sources  for  'library  functions! 

The  source  code  for  all  our  programs,  including  the  ones  on  this  page,  is  available  from  us,  either 
at  additional  cost,  or  if  noted,  included  in  the  price.  The  programs  on  this  page  are  distributed  with 
machine  readable  source  at  no  additional  cost. 


SUPERSOFT 

Your  Source  for 
SOURCE 


TFS-Text  Formatting  System 

An  extremely  powerful  formatter.  More  than  50  commands.  Supports 
all  major  features  including: 

•  left  &  right  margin  justification    •  user  defined  macros 

•  dynamic  insertion  from  disk  file  •  underlining  and  backspace 
TFS  lets  you  make  multiple  copies  of  any  text.  For  example: 
Personalized  form  letters  complete  with  name  &  address  &  other 
insertions  from  a  disk  file.  Text  is  not  limited  to  the  size  of  RAM 
making  TFS  perfect  for  reports  or  any  big  job. 

Text  is  entered  using  CP/M  standard  editor  or  most  any  CP/M 
compatible  editor.  TFS  will  link  completely  with  Super-M-List 
making  personalized  form  letters  easy. 

Requires:  24K  CP/M 

Source  to  TFS  in  8080  assembler  (can  be  assembled  using 
standard  CP/M  assembler)  plus  user  manual:  $250.00. 

Object  code  only  with  user  manual:  $85.00 

Manual  alone:  $20.00 


TERM 

A  complete  intercommunications  package  for  linking  your  computer 
to  other  computers.  Link  either  to  other  CP/M  computers  or  to 
large  timesharing  systems.  TERM  is  comparable  to  other  systems 
but  costs  less,  delivers  more  and  source  is  provided  on  discette! 
With  TERM  you  can  send  and  receive  ASCII  and  Hex  files 
(COM  too,  with  included  conversion  program)  with  any  other 
CP/M  computer  which  has  TERM  or  compatible  package.  Allows 
real  time  communication  between  users  on  separate  systems  as 
well  as  acting  as  timesharing  terminal. 

•  Engage/disengage  printer  •  send  files 

•  error  checking  and  auto  retry  •  receive  files 

•  terminal  mode  for  timesharing  between  systems 

•  conversational  mode 
Requires:  32K  CP/M. 

•Supplied  with  user  manual  and  8080  source  code:  $110.00 
Manual  alone:  $15.00 


r    \Ti 

master  criaruel 

L"T"J 

mssm 

CP/M  Formats:  8"  soft  sectored,  5"  Northstar, 
5"  Micropolis  Mod  II,  Vector  M7 

•CP/M  REGISTERED  TRADEMARK  DIGITAL  RESEARCH 


SUPERSOFT  ASSOCIATES  •  PO.BOX1628-  CHAMPAIGN,  IL  61820 

(217)359-2112 


OATEBOCK  for  Tue  Jan  1  -  Not  printed  since  the  last  change 

.'First  one  ISecond  one  [Third  one 


! tooth  extraction 


9  80  : 

16  IKathg  Nelson/check  up 


58  [Hike  Sdva/restoration 


George  Kennedy 
restoration: : ::- 


IEd  Jones/check  up  and 
!x-rags 


1  Judith  Washington/ 
[restoration 


!Thel*a  Carter/check  up 


Schedule  C(ancel      rKodify      LUok  for  openings    fKold  in    Reschedule  list 
Kodag      NCext  dag  FCuture     FXrint  dag's  appts    [Xisplag  person's  appts 
r,  nuMber  or  space  for  a  nen  display,  or  Q  to  quit 


INTRODUCING 

DATEBOOK™ 

THE  NEW  OFFICE 

APPOINTMENT  CALENDAR 

PROGRAM 

DATEBOOK  helps  manage  time  just  tike  a  com- 
mon office  appointment  book,  but  with  the  speed 
and  accuracy  of  a  computer.  DATEBOOK  elim- 
inates the  scribbles,  erasures,  and  frustration  of 
searching  through  the  book  for  a  specific  opening. 

DATEBOOK™  is  ideal  for  Doctors,  Dentists,  Law- 
yers, Salesmen,  Repairmen,  or  in  any  situation  where 
time  management  is  critical  to  office  efficiency.  Its 
menu  display  and  one-key  options  make  DATE- 
BOOK  one  of  the  easiest  programs  to  leam  and 
use. 

DATEBOOK™  features  include: 

•  Appointment  scheduling,  cancelling,  modify- 
ing and  rescheduling. 

•  Automatically  searches  for  openings  according 
to  time  of  day,  day  of  week,  and  week  of  year. 

•  Displays  all  scheduled  appointments  for  a 
specified  person. 

•  Lists  day's  schedule  (Screen  or  hard  copy). 

•  Can   be   customized   to   accommodate   any 
workday/hours  schedule. 

DATEBOOK™  is  written  in  PASCAL  and  is  avail- 
able to  run  on  CP/M  as  well  as  UCSD  PASCAL 
systems. 

(415)  455-4034 

^  w  only    4>4b*J3 

Yv  '^Vfi  f£j     Dealer  discounts  available. 


w> 


3<uS?(i 


%, 


naturally 

bug  free 


% 


1492  Windsor  Way,  Livermore,  CA  94550 


Beck  Reviews 


Applied  Mathematical 
Physics  With 
Programmable  Pocket 
Calculators 


by  Robert  M  Eisberg 
McGraw-Hill  Book  Com- 
pany, New  York  NY, 
1976 

176  pages,  softcover 
$9.95 


This  book  by  Professor 
Eisberg  of  the  University  of 
California,  Santa  Barbara  is 
interesting  on  three  counts. 
First,  it  introduces  the  reader 
to  numerical  methods  for 
differentiation,  integration, 
and  solution  of  differential 
equations.  Second,  these 
methods  are  applied  to  the 
general  problems  of 
mathematical  physics,  start- 
ing with  the  motion  of  an 
oscillator  and  finishing  with 
Schrodinger's  equation. 
Third,  the  programs  for  the 
solution  of  the  equations  in 
these  fields  are  given  for  the 
Hewlett-Packard  HP-25  and 
the  Texas  Instruments  SR-56 
calculators. 

A  reader's  first  reaction 
might  be  that  the  programs 
apply  only  to  the  solution  of 
the  problems  of 
mathematical  physics. 
However,  the  mathematical 
procedures  that  were  aimed 
at  these  calculators  may  also 
be  applied  to  any  computer. 
Furthermore,  the  problems 
are  in  the  field  of  physics, 
but  the  methods  of  solution 
of  these  problems  should  be 
of  interest  to  the  general 
reader. 

This  book  discusses  the 
derivative  and  methods  of 
obtaining  it,  followed  by 
programs  and  examples. 
Problems  for  testing  the  pro- 
gram are  also  given.  Pro- 
cedures for  integration  and 
summation  are  introduced 
with  the  appropriate  pro- 
grams and  examples  for 
solution. 

The  numerical  procedure 
for  the  solution  of  second- 


order  differential  equations 
is  developed  without  the 
great  depth  required  for 
mathematical  development. 
These  equations  are  given 
for  both  undamped  and 
damped  motion,  as  well  as 
the  driven  oscillator.  The 
program  development  and 
the  results  obtained  are  in- 
teresting. 

The  harmonic  oscillator 
section  is  followed  by  the 
coupled  oscillator.  The  ex- 
amples for  the  coupled 
oscillators  and  their  motion 
are  interesting  not  only  for 
the  study  of  the  motion  of 
such  systems,  but  also  for 
the  solution  of  the 
simultaneous  equations  in- 
volved. 

The  concept  of  central 
force  motion  is  introduced, 
including  orbital  path  deter- 
mination. This  section  con- 
cludes with  alpha  particle 
scatter  due  to  repulsive 
forces.  A  "random"  number 
generator  program  is  in- 
troduced and  applied  to 
problems  of  entropy,  or 
run-down  evaluation. 

Finally,  Schrodinger's 
time-independent  equation  is 
introduced  and  evaluated, 
and  programs  are  given  for 
the  harmonic  oscillator  and 
the  potential  well. 

This  is  an  admirable  little 
book  on  mathematics  ap- 
plied to  physics  and  the  pro- 
gramming of  such  material 
for  the  HP-25  and  SR-56 
programmable  calculators.  It 
is  also  of  great  interest  to 
the  computer  programmer 
because  of  the  procedures 
discussed,  which  are  adap- 
table to  the  computer. 


WB  Agocs 

Department  of  Physical 

Sciences 

Kutztown  State  College 

Kutztown  PA  19530 


The  Little  LISPer 


by  Daniel  P  Friedman 
Science  Research 
Associates  Inc 
Palo  Alto  CA,  1974 


108        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  66  on  inquiry  card. 


WHYCIS  COBOL 

LETS  YOUR 
JVUCROGOMPUTER 

PERFORM  LIKE  A 


MAINF 


Now,  you  can  use  a  microcomputer  for 
sophisticated  business  applications 
. . .  because  now  there's  CIS  COBOL. 
Micro  Focus  developed  this  COBOL  so 
your  microcomputer  can  run  the  same 
programs  as  a  minicomputer  or  a 
mainframe. 

CIS  COBOL  is  Micro  Focus'  Compact, 
Interactive,  Standard  COBOL  which 
offers  the  advantages  of  COBOL . . . 
powerful  data  structure  features,  English- 
like language,  existing  programmer 
expertise ...  to  provide  you  with  a  full 
commercial  language.  You  won't  be 
restricted  by  size  either:  a  64K  byte 
microcomputer  will  compile  up  to  8000 
lines  of  COBOL,  more  if  the  program's 
split  into  dynamically  loaded  modules. 

Choose  a  Compact  Compiler. 

The  Compact  compiler  runs  on  32K  byte 
microcomputer  systems.  Its  powerful 
subset  includes  full  support  for  random, 
indexed  and  sequential  files. 

Or choose  the 
Standard  Compiler. 

The  Standard  CIS  COBOL  compiler 
requires  a  minimum  48K  of  user  RAM. 
A  super-set  of  the  Compact  compiler, 
implementing  ANSI  74  COBOL  to 
Federal  Low -intermediate  Level. 


The  same  CIS  COBOL 
extensions  for  conversational 
working,  screen  control,  interactive 
debugging,  and  special  peripheral  sup 
port  are  in  both  compilers.  And  there  are 
more  reasons  to  consider  CIS  COBOL: 

•  It  conforms  fully  to  the  ANSI  74  stand- 
ard, so  programs  are  portable  upwards 
and  downwards  to  minis  or  mainframes. 

•  Its  interactive  features  enable  main- 
frame programmers  to  get  results  fast . . . 
working  on  inexpensive  microcomputers. 

Forms 

The  FORMS  utility  lets  you  build  a 
screen  layout  online  at  the  CRT.  Then 
it  automatically  generates  COBOL 
record  descriptions  for  inclusion  in  your 
program. 

Forms-2 

A  superset  of  FORMS,  it  eliminates  the 
need  to  write  simple  data  entry  and 
inquiry  programs,  because  the  programs 
can  be  automatically  generated  from 
screen  definitions. 

Environment 

CIS  COBOL  products  run  on  the  8080 
or  Z80  microprocessors  under  the  CP/M* 
operating  system,  and  on  the  LSI-11 
or  PDP-11  processors  under  RT-11. 
They  are  distributed  in  a  variety  of  disk 
formats  and  come  with  a  utility  that 
enables  you  to  use  any  make  of  CRT. 

OEMs 

Intel  has  adopted  CIS  COBOL  and  offers 
it  (as  iCIS-COBOL)  for  their  Intellec  and 


Intellec  II  systems.  Ideal 
for  OEM's  or  private  label, 
COBOL  was  developed 
entirely  by  Micro  Focus.  Send 
inquiries  for  CIS  COBOL  object  packs 
and  application  vendor  terms  to  MICRO 
FOCUS  or  its  licensed  distributors. 
Distributor  terms  also  available  from 
MICRO  FOCUS. 


Send  me  more  information  for: 

□  Single  Copy  Users 

□  Reseller  and  Distributor  Licensing 

Name 

Title 

Company 

Address 

City/State 

Zip/Phone 


-•I 

! 


Computer  ModeL 
Version  of  DOS 


MICRO  FOCUS™ 

Micro  Focus  Inc.  •  1601  Civic  Center  Drive  • 
Santa  Clara  •  CA  95050  •  Tel:  (408)  984-6961  • 
Telex:  171-135  MISSION  SNTA 

U.K.  Office  •  58  Acacia  Road  •  St.  Johns  Wood  • 
London  NW8  6AG  •  Tel:  01  722  8843  •  Telex: 
228536  MICROF  G 
L______ ______  J 


CIS  COBOL  distributors  include:  Vector  Graphic,  Onyx  Systems,  Altos  Computer  Systems,  Lifeboat  Associates,  Research  Machines,  Telecomputing,  Modular  Business  Systems,  Rah,  Midlectron, 
Rostronics  and  Johnson-Laird  Inc.     flntellec  is  a  trademark  of  Intel  Corp.     *CP/M  is  a  trademark  of  Digital  Research  Inc. 


58  pages,  softcover 
$3.95 

It  might  seem  a  little  odd 
to  review  a  six-year-old 
book,  but  there  is  a  good 
reason  for  it  in  this  case: 
LISP  has  only  recently 
become  available  for 
microcomputers.  John  Allen 
(guest  editor  of  the  August 
1979  BYTE  special  issue  on 
LISP)  has  promised  that  his 
LISP  Company  will  unveil  a 
full  line  of  LISP  systems.  It 
will  start  with  a  Z80  version 
and  proceed  to  much  more 
capable  LISPs  for  the  new 
16-bit  microprocessors. 
Also,  LISP  interpreters  from 
other  sources  exist  for  Z80, 
6800,  and  AM-100  pro- 
cessors. 

The  next  question  is  how 
does  one  learn  LISP? 
Reference  manuals  give  too 
much  detail  and  not  enough 
feel  for  the  language.  Most 
introductory  material  gives 
too  little  detail  and  not 
enough  feel  for  the 
language,  and  nearly  all 
books  on  LISP  make  the 
mistake  of  telling  the  student 
what  LISP  functions  are  and 


what  they  do  instead  of  how 
to  use  them.  There  is  an 
alternative  to  all  this.  One 
can  obtain  The  Little 
LISPer,  study  it  for  a  short 
time,  and  come  away  with  a 
firm  grasp  of  the  essentials 
of  LISP.  This  grasp  is  suffi- 
cient to  make  sense  out  of 
the  rest  of  the  material  con- 
cerning LISP  and  LISP-based 
systems  that  one  might  en- 
counter. 

The  Little  LISPer  was 
originally  written  to  provide 
a  two-week  course  for  non- 
programmers.  It  is  one  of  the 
best  introductions  to  any 
language  that  I  have  ever 
read.  I  went  straight  through 
it  the  day  I  got  it.  The  se- 
quence of  topics  (interleav- 
ing functions,  data  struc- 
tures, programming  prin- 
ciples, recursive  program- 
ming techniques)  is  laid  out 
with  a  deft  touch  that  has 
the  student  progressing 
much  faster  than  he  realizes. 
This  organization  of  the 
material  allows  the  reader  to 
build  up  a  sophisticated 
sense  of  the  patterns  in- 
herent in  LISP  structures 


the  electric  pencil  II 

^^  ^™  B 19B0  Mfihael  Shrayet 

Jgj         for  the  TRS-80  Model  II*  Computer 

MX 


The  Electric  Pencil  is  a  Character  Oriented  Word  Processing 
System.  This  means  that  text  is  entered  as  a  continuous  string 
of  chrracters  and  is  manipulated  as  such.  This  allows  the  user 
enormous  freedom  and  ease  in  the  movement  and  handling  of 
text.  Since  lines  are  not  delineated,  any  number  of  char- 
acters, words,  lines  or  paragraphs  may  be  inserted  or  deleted 
anywhere  in  the  text.  The  entirety  of  the  text  shifts  and 
opens  up  or  closes  as  needed  in  full  view  of  the  user.  Car- 
riage returns  as  well  as  word  hyphenation  are  not  reguired 
since  each  line  of  text  is  formatted  < 


As  text  is  typed  and  the  end  of  a  screen  line  is  reached,  a 
partially  completed  word  is  shifted  to  the  beginning  of  the 
following  line.  Whenever  text  is  inserted  or  deleted,  existing 
text  is  pushed  down  or  pulled  up  in  a  wrap  around  fashion. 
Everything  appears  on  the  video  display  screen  as  it  occurs 
thereby  eliminating  my  guesswork.  Text  may  be  reviewed  at 
will  by  variable  speed  or  page-at-a-time  scrolling  both  in  the 
forward  and  reverse  directions.  By  using  the  search  or  the 
search  and  replace  function,  any  string  of  characters  may  be 
located  aid/or  replaced  with  any  other  string  of  characters  as 
desired.  Specific  sets  of  characters  within  encoded  strings 
may  also  be  located. 

When  text  is  printed,  The  Electric  Pencil  automatically 
inserts  carriage  returns  where  they  are  needed.  Numerous 
combinations  of  Line  Length,  Poge  Length,  Character  Spacing, 
Line  Spacing  <xtd  Page  Spacing  allow  for  any  form  to  be 
handled.  Right  Justification  gives  right-hand  margins  that 
are  even.     Pages  may  be  numbered  as  well  as  titled. 


the  electric  pencil 

-a  Proven  Word  Processmij  Svstem 


The  TRSDOS  versions  of  The  Electric  Pencil  II  are  our  best 
es*r!  You  can  now  type  as  fast  as  you  like  without  losing  any 
characters.  New  TRSDOS  features  Include  word  left,  word  right, 
word  delete,  bottom  of  page  numbering  as  well  as  extended 
cursor  controls  for  greater  user  flexibility.  BASIC  files  may 
also  be  written  and  simply  edited  without  additional   software. 

Our  CP/M  versions  ire  the  same  as  we  have  been  distributing 
for  several  years  aid  allow  the  CP/M  user   to  edit  CP/M  files 
r   CONVERT   utility   for   an   additional 
t  required  if  only  quick  and  easy  word 
ired.     A  keyboard  buffer  permits  fast   typing 


Serial  Diablo,  NEC,  Qi 


CP/M         TRSDOS 
ne  $  300.00        $   350.00 


Features 

TRSDOS  or  CP/M  Compotible  •  Supports  Four  Disk 
Drives  *  Dynamic  Print  Formatting  "  Dioblo,  NEC  & 
Qime  Print  Packages  *  Multi-Column  Printing  *  Print 
Value  Chaining  •  Page-ot-a-time  Scrolling  • 
Bidirectional  Multispeed  Scrolling  *  Subsystem  with 
Print  Value  Scoreboard  *  Automatic  Word  &  Record 
Number  Tally  •  Global  Search  &  Replace  *  Full  Margin 
Control  *  End  of  Poge  Control  •  Non  Printing  Text 
Line  &  Paragraph  Indentation  * 
Underlining     ■      Boldface 


All  other  printers $  275.00       $  325.00 

The  Electric  Pencil  I  is  still  available  for  TRS-80  Model  I 
users.  Although  not  as  sophisticated  as  Electric  Pencil  If,  it 
is  still  an  extremely  easy  to  use  oid  powerful  word  processing 
system.  The  software  has  been  designed  to  be  used  with  both 
Level  i  (I6K  system)  and  Level  II  models  of  the  TRS-80.  Two 
versions,  one  for  use  with  cassette,  and  one  for  use  with  disk, 
are  available  on  cassette.  The  TRS-80  disk  version  is  easily 
transferred  to  disk  and  is  fully  inteructive  with  the  READ, 
WRITE,  DIR,  and  KILL  routines  of  TRSDOS. 

TRC         Cassette $   100.00 

TRO        Disk S   150.00 


MICHAEL  SHflAYFR  SOFTWARE.  INC. 

1198  Los  Robles  Dr. 

Palm  Springs.  CA.  92262 

(7141  323-1400 


almost  without  noticing. 

Other  features  that  con- 
tribute to  the  relaxed,  but 
speedy,  progress  of  the  stu- 
dent are  the  organization  of 
the  entire  text  into  carefully 
constructed  sets  of  questions 
and  answers  and  the  light 
humorous  touch  of  the  ex- 
amples. 

LISP  operates  on  list 
structures,  and  most  of  the 
data  used  in  the  book  are 
lists  of  foods.  One  of  the 
problems  for  the  reader  is  to 
determine  the  list  that  results 
from  inserting  the  atom 
ROAST  after  the  atom 
CHUCK  in  a  list  beginning: 

(HOW  (MUCH  WOOD).  .  . 

Unfortunately  the  text 
breaks  off  too  soon,  leaving 
the  reader  with  a  clear  sense 
of  things  he  was  just  about 
ready  to  do,  but  will  have 
to  find  out  about  elsewhere. 
In  any  case,  the  author 
says  the  reader  is  "better 
prepared  than  he  realizes"  to 
learn  the  details  of  a  full 
LISP  system  and  many  more 
advanced  programming 
techniques.  It  is  only 
necessary  to  become  familiar 
with  the  full  range  of 
features  of  a  complete  LISP 
system  before  diving  into 
the  world  of  artificial  in- 
telligence and  numerous 
other  fields. 

LISP  is  a  realization  and 
extension  (in  notation,  not 
computing  power)  of 
Church's  lambda  calculus, 
one  of  the  most  powerful 
mathematical  tools  in  ex- 
istence. It  is  generally  con- 
sidered a  remarkable 
achievement  to  teach  a 
powerful  mathematical 
technique  to  nonmathemati- 
cians.  As  far  as  I  am  con- 
cerned, though,  this  kind  of 
teaching  should  be  normal, 
and  the  usual  "math  is  hard 
and  you're  too  dumb  to 
learn  it"  approach  should  be 
thrown  away.  The  fact  is 
that  most  people  are  not  too 
dumb  to  learn  mathematics 
of  whatever  sort,  but  few 
people  are  clever  enough  to 
learn  improperly  presented 
mathematics.  It  seems  that 
even  fewer  are  clever 
enough  to  present  it  well.  I 
am  delighted  to  have  an  op- 
portunity to  point  out  an  in- 


stance of  top-quality  text- 
book writing  and  to  offer 
my  congratulations  to 
Daniel  Friedman. 

Mokurai  Cherlin 

APL  Business  Consultants  Inc 

POB  1131 

Mt  Shasta  CA  96067 


Mathematical  Elements 
for  Computer  Graphics 

by  David  Rogers  and 
]  Alan  Adams 
McGraw-Hill  Book 
Company,  New  York 
NY,  1976 

Softcover,  239  pages 
$12.95 


One  of  the  ironies  of  com- 
puter graphics  is  that  it  is 
the  aspect  of  computer  use 
that  most  attracts  people 
who  do  not  like  mathe- 
matics, while  it  is  one  of  the 
few  fields  of  computing 
(contrary  to  popular  belief) 
that  require   mathematics. 
Mathematical  Elements  for 
Computer  Grapics  is  a  good 
sourcebook  of  the  mathe- 
matics, the  formulae,  and 
the  algorithms  required  to 
implement  graphics  packages 
and  applications  on  com- 
puters of  any  size.  It  is 
especially  well  suited  to 
personal-computer  use,  since 
all  of  the  algorithms  are 
presented  in  BASIC. 

Rogers  and  Adams  assume 
several  things  about  the 
reader.  First,  they  assume 
that  the  reader  is  writing,  or 
wants  to  write,  software  for 
a  line-drawing  display  (such 
as  those  produced  by  Tek- 
tronix). If  you  have  a 
television-technology  display 
(like  most  small-computer 
users),  you  will  need  to 
devise  the  software  to  make 
it  draw  lines.  They  also 
assume  that  the  reader  has  a 
substantial  background  in 
mathematics.  Unfortunately 
for  this  subject,  a  substantial 
mathematical  background 
means  three  terms  of 
college-level  calculus  plus 
matrix  algebra.  Also,  the 
algorithms  are  presented  in 
Dartmouth  BASIC,  which 
requires  a  fair  amount  of 
conversion  before  it  will 


110       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  67  on  Inquiry  card. 


Circle  68  on  Inquiry  card. 


When  It  Comes 
To  Add-on  Memory. 


LOBO 
Has  It  All 


LOBO  DRIVES  manufactures  a  full  line  of  S-1 00 

computer  compatible  disk  drives.  All  drives  are 

software  compatible  with  most  S-1 00  disk  operating 

systems  and  applications  software  programs.  Only 

LOBO  DRIVES  offers  you  the  variety  and  choice  of 

floppy  and  fixed  disk  drives.  Choose  from  5%  and 

8-inch  floppies,  5Vi  and  8-inch  Winchester  technology 

fixed  disk  drives,  and  several  Floppy/Fixed  disk 

combinations.  Each  LOBO  DRIVES  system  is 

thoroughly  tested  and  burned-in  and  has  the  famous 

LOBO  DRIVES  One  Year,  100%  Parts/Labor 

Warranty. 


MODEL  400  5V4-INCH  FLOPPY 
DISK  MEMORY  SYSTEM 

A  high-speed  (298)  Msec  Access),  high- 
reliability  (8000  hrs  MTBF),  low-cost  floppy 
disk  memory  system.  It  is  available  in  both 
soft  and  hard  sector  formats,  and  a  choice 
of  single  or  double  density  configurations. 

•  Up  to  220  KBytes  Capacity 

•  Single/Double  Density 

•  Soft  Sector  Format 

•  Complete  Software  Compatibility 


MODEL  800/850  DUAL  FLOPPY 
DISK  DRIVE  MEMORY  SYSTEM 

LOBO  DRIVES  offers  you  a  choice  of 
single-sided,  single  or  double  density 
(Model  800)  or  double-sided,  single  or 
double  density  (Model  850)  dual  8-inch 
memory  subsystems.  Each  system  comes 
complete  with  chassis  and  power  supply, 
cables,  controller  and  interface. 

•  Compatible  with  Most  S-1 00  DOS 
Systems 

•  Up  to  3.2  MByte  Capacity 


MODEL  1850  DUAL 

FLOPPY/FIXED  DISK  MEMORY 

SYSTEM 

No  more  worries  about  back-up.  LOBO 
DRIVES  has  combined  the  latest  state-of- 
the-art  Winchester  technology  with  the  pro- 
ven reliability  and  dependability  of  its  Model 
850  8-inch  floppy  disk  drive  to  bring  you  the 
ultimate  in  memory  expansion  for  your 
S-1 00  computer.  The  Model  1850  is  the 
ideal  memory  system  for  small  business 
and  word  processing  applications. 

•  5  or  10  MByte  Fixed  Disk  Capacity 

•  1 .6  MByte  Floppy  Disk  Capacity 

•  Software  Compatibility 

•  Sealed  Environment 

•  Winchester  Reliability 

•  70  Msec  Average  Access  Time 


MODEL  950  DUAL 

FLOPPY/FIXED  DISK  MEMORY 

SYSTEM 

All  the  advantages  of  Winchester 
technology  fixed  disk  memory:  large 
capacity  (6.38  MBytes),  high  speed  (170 
Msec  avg.  access  time),  and  extended 
reliability,  combined  with  the  convenience 
of  a  built-in  floppy  disk  back-up  in  one 
cabinet.  Only  LOBO  can  bring  you  the 
storage  capacity  of  16  mini-floppies  at  a 
fraction  of  the  price. 

•  The  Storage  Capacity  of  1 6  Mini- 
Floppies 

•  Built-in  Back-up 

•  1 70  Msec  Access  (Avg) 

•  Software  Compatibility 


See  your  nearest  dealer,  call,  or  write  for  the  complete  LOBO  DRIVES  story., 
find  out  just  how  competitively  priced  a  quality  drive  can  be. 


l§>B<| 

drives] 


& 


INTERNATIONAL 


935  Camino  Del  Sur 
Goleta,  California  93017 
(805)  685-4546 
Telex:  658  482 


SIMPLY 
BEAUTIFUL. 

CF&A  furniture  looks  terrific.  But  beauty  is  more  than  skin  deep. 
That's  why  our  line  of  desks,  stands,  and  enclosures  also  fea- 
tures rugged  construction,  low  cost,  and  quick  delivery.  In  a 
wide  range  of  sizes  and  configurations.  With  accessories  to 
meet  your  individual  requirements.  With  a  smile  and  a  thank  you. 

Call  CF&A.  We  make  it  simple.  We  make  it  beautiful. 

CF*A 


Computer  Furniture  and 

Accessories,  Inc. 

1441  West  132nd  Street 

Gardena,  CA  90249 

(213)327-7710 


work  in  Microsoft  BASIC  or 
BASIC-E. 

For  those  of  you  who 
have  not  yet  been  scared 
off,  you  will  learn 
algorithms  and  techniques 
for:  scaling,  rotation,  curve 
representation,  three- 
dimensional  displays,  three- 
dimensional  transformation, 
and  surface  description  and 
display.  Of  course,  I  am 
only  summarizing;  Rogers 
and  Adams  break  these 
topics  down  into  65  sec- 
tions, plus  algorithms. 

So  why  buy  (or  borrow) 
this  book  ?  If  you  want  a 
text  to  teach  yourself  com- 
puter graphics,  this  is  the 
wrong  book.  It  will  not 
really  tell  you  how  to  put  all 
of  the  algorithms  together 
into  a  usable  package  or  ap- 
plication. But,  if  you 
already  know  something 
about  computer  graphics 
and  need  a  reference  to  give 
or  compare  formulae  and 
algorithms,  then  this  is 
definitely  the  right  book.  A 
caveat  is  in  order:  I  have 
not  checked  any  of  the 
algorithms  or  programs  for 
typographical  accuracy. 
Which  is  to  say,  it's  a  good 
reference,  but  not  a  good 
text.B 

John  A  Lehman 
716  Hutchins  #2 
Ann  Arbor  MI  48103 


BYTE's  Bugs 


Duplicated  NAND  Gate 

A  drafting  error  marred 
Steve  Ciarcia's  article  "A 
Build-It-Yourself  Modem  for 
Under  $50"  (August  1980 
BYTE,  page  22).  The  pin 
numbers  for  a  section  of  an 
integrated  circuit  were  incor- 
rectly marked,  duplicating 
the  numbers  for  a  different 
section. 

In  figure  lb  on  page  28, 
the  NAND  gate  of  IC4c 
should  have  had  its  input  in 
dicated  as  being  on  pins  8 
and  9,  with  output  on  pin 
10.  The  pin  numbers  for 
IC4d  are  correct  as  shown.! 


112        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  69  on  inquiry  card. 


fery  sharp  printout 
at  very  low  payout 


The  Heath  H-14  Printer  gives  you  high-performance 
features  at  one  of  the  lowest  prices  anywhere... 


•  5  x  7  dot  matrix  and  high  quality  impact  printhead 
give  you  clear,  easy-to-read  images 

•  Standard  96-character  ASCII  set,  UPPER  and  lower  case 

•  Operator  or  software-selectable  line  widths;  132,  96, 
or  80  characters 

•  Compatibility  with  any  computer  having  RS-232C  or 
20  mA  current  loop  serial  interface,  with  handshaking 

•  Sprocket  paper  feed,  with  adjustable  spacing,  to  keep 
paper  moving  smoothly 

•  Sustainable  print  speed  approximately  30  characters 
per  second 

•  "Paper  jammed"  and  "paper  out"  signals  to  prevent 
loss  of  data 

•  Selectable  baud  rates  from  110  to  4800 

•  Convenience  of  standard  fan-fold  paper,  2.5  to  9.5 
inches  wide 

•  Chrome  wire  rack  to  keep  paper  neat 

Visit  your  Heathkit 

Service  Center 

H-14  Printers  are  on  display 

at  the  61  Heathkit  Electronic 

Centers  throughout  the  U.S. 

and  Canada.  See  your  telephone 

white  pages  for  the  location 

nearest  you. 

In  the  U.S.  Heathkit  Electronic 

Centers  are  units  of  Veritechnology 

Electronics  Corporation. 

*In  kit  form.  FOB  Benton  Harbor,  MI.  Also  available 
completely  assembled  at  $895.00,  FOB  Benton  Harbor. 
Prices  subject  to  change  without  notice. 

Circle  70  on  Inquiry  card. 


The  H-14's  remarkable  price  includes  connecting  cables, 
paper  rack,  paper,  and  ribbon  —  so  you're  all  ready  to 
run.  And  service  for  the  H-14  is  available  at  61  Heathkit 
Electronic  Centers  in  the  U.S.  or  Canada. 
Check  out  the  microprocessor-based  H-14  Printer  today, 
in  kit  form  or  factory  assembled.  You'll  find  complete 
details  in  the  newest,  FREE  Heathkit  Catalog.  Send  for 
yours  today,  or  pick  one  up  at  the  nearest  Heathkit 
Electronic  Center.  Dealer  inquiries  on  assembled 
units  are  invited,  too. 

Complete  service,  so  you're  @ 

never  left  out  in  the  cold  U  f%  *~%  f  l~tt 

Computer  Systems 

Send  for 
FREE  Catalog 

Write  to:  Heath  Company, 

Dept.  334-716 

Benton  Harbor,  MI  49022 


CP-191 


SYNCHRO-SOUND 

THE  COMPUTER  PEOPLE 


,Pt**& 


S5ffBH0» 


Many  ol  our  prices  are  too  low  to  advertise! 
PLEASE  CALL  OR  WRITE 


We  carry  a  full  line  of:  ADDS,  QUME,  TELETYPE, 

CROMEMCO,  FLORIDA  DATA  SYSTEMS,  SCOTCH, 

MAXELL,  VERBATIM,  ALPHA-MICRO,  ATARI, 

INTEGRAL  DATA,  LIVERMORE  COUPLERS, 

HAZELTINE,  TEXAS  INSTRUMENTS, 

DIGITAL  MICRO  SYSTEMS  and  others. 


-SOUND 


PRISES.  INC. 
IE  COMPUTER  PEOPLE 


Eccks  fleceived 


193-25  Jamaica  Ave. 
Jamaica.  New  York  11423 


PHONE  ORDERS  CAL 
New  York  212/468-7067 
Los  Angeles  213/628-180E 

Chicago  312/641-3010 


The  following  is  a  list  of  books  received  at  BYTE  Publications  dur- 
ing this  past  month.  Although  the  list  is  not  meant  to  be  exhaustive, 
its  purpose  is  to  acquaint  BYTE  readers  with  recently  published  titles 
in  computer  science  and  related  fields.  We  regret  that  we  cannot 
review  or  comment  on  all  the  books  we  receive;  instead,  this  list  is 
meant  to  be  a  monthly  acknowledgement  of  these  books  and  the 
publishers  who  sent  them. 


Bit-Slice  Microprocessor 
Design,  Jim  Brick  and  John 
Mick;  McGraw-Hill  Book 
Company,  New  York  NY 
1980;  7%  by  Wi  inches  (20 
by  24.5  cm),  398  pages, 
hardcover,  ISBN 
0-07-041781-4,  $18.50. 

Computer  Peripherals  for 
Minicomputers,  Micro- 
processors, and  Personal 
Computers,  C  Louis 
Hohenstein;  McGraw-Hill 
Book  Company,  New  York 
NY  1980;  6  by  9  inches  (15.5 
by  23  cm),  312  pages,  hard- 
cover, ISBN  0-07-029451-8, 
$19.50. 

Early  British  Computers, 
Simon  Lavington;  Digital 
Press,  Bedford  MA  1980; 
53/4  by  8V4  inches  (15  by  21 
cm),  130  pages,  softcover, 
ISBN  0-932376-08-8,  $8. 

A  Guide  to  Structured 
COBOL  with  Efficiency 
Techniques  and  Special 
Algorithms,  Pacifico  A  Lim; 
Van  Nostrand  Reinhold, 
New  York  NY  1980;  6  by  9 
inches  (15.5  by  23  cm);  272 
pages,  hardcover,  ISBN 
0-442-24585-8,  $18.95. 

Master  Handbook  of  Elec- 
tronic Tables  &  Formulas, 
third  edition,  Martin  Clif- 
ford; Tab  Books,  Blue  Ridge 
Summit  PA  1980;  6  by  &Y* 
inches  (15.5  by  21  cm),  313 
pages,  softcover,  ISBN 
0-8306-1225-4,  $8.95. 

More  Chess  and  Com- 
puters: The  Microcomputer 
Revolution,  The  Challenging 
Match,  David  Levy,  Monroe 
Newborn;  Computer  Science 
Press,  Potomac  MD  1980; 
5V4  by  8%  inches  (13.5  by 
20.5  cm),  117  pages;  soft- 
cover,  ISBN  0-914894-07-2, 
$12.95. 

Practical  Area  Navigation, 
Paul  Garrison;  Tab  Books, 
Blue  Ridge  Summit  PA 
1980;  6  by  9Vi  inches  (15.5 
by  23  cm),  224  pages;  soft- 


cover,  ISBN  0-8306-2286-1, 
$5.95. 

Practical  BASIC  Pro- 
grams, Lon  Poole;  Osborne/ 
McGraw-Hill,  Berkeley  CA 
1980;  8%  by  10%  inches 
(20.5  by  26.6  cm),  171 
pages,  softcover,  ISBN 
0-931988-38-1,  $15. 

Project  Whirlwind:  The 
History  of  a  Pioneer  Com- 
puter, Kent  C  Redmond  and 
Thomas  M  Smith;  Digital 
Press,  Bedford  MA  1980;  7% 
by  Wi  inches  (18.6  by  24.5 
cm),  280  pages,  hardcover, 
ISBN  0-932376-09-6,  $21. 

Some  Common  BASIC 
Programs,  third  edition, 
Mary  Borchers  and  Lon 
Poole;  Osborne/McGraw- 
Hill,  Berkeley  CA  1980;  8% 
by  103/4  inches  (20.5  by  27.5 
cm),  195  pages;  softcover, 
ISBN  0-931988-06-3. 

Structured  BASIC  and 
Beyond,  Wayne  Amsbury; 
Computer  Science  Press, 
Potomac  MD  1980;  6  by  9 
inches  (15.5  by  23  cm),  310 
pages,  softcover,  ISBN 
0-914894-16-1,  $10.95.  ■ 


BYTE's  Bugs 


The  First  Shall  Be  Last 

The  Washington  Area 
Computer  Society  (WACS) 
meets  on  the  last  Friday  of 
the  month  (not  the  first)  on 
the  campus  of  the  Catholic 
University  of  America  in 
Washington,  DC,  in  the 
first-floor  lecture  room  in 
Keane  Hall,  starting  at  7:30 
PM.  Incorrect  information 
about  the  meeting  time  had 
been  published  in  a  past 
issue  of  BYTE.B 


114        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


k^A 


Sp 

.-<•*-- 

tjl 

*,."      '      ' 

•i 

ft.  ft  ■»• 

BASIC  SOFTWARE  LIBRARY 

NOW  *  10  *  Volumes  and  Growing 

WHY  Pay  hundreds  of  dollars  for  Software  that  does  Not  work  when  WE  offer  the  BEST 
available  Software  for  only  a  few  dollars  a  program.  And  what  is  better  OURS  WORKS! 

We  have  over  100,000  in  circulation  since  1975  and  we  are  still  around  and  That's  more  than  Anyone  else  can  say.  We 
used  to  sell  hundreds  of  programs  individually,  the  programs  in  Volume  X  were  sold  for  several  years  at  over  $10,000, 
in  Volume  III  for  over  $6,000  but  a  few  years  ago  we  decided  to  promote  software  to  the  mass  public  and  it  was  an 
instant  success. 

For  Homeowners,  Businessmen,  Engineers,  Hobbyists,  Doctors,  Lawyers,  Men  and  Women 


Vol.  I  S24. 

Business  & 
Personal 

Bookkeeping 
Programs 

Bond 

Building 

Compound 

Cyclic 

Decision  1 

Decision  2 

Depreciation 

Efficient 

Flow 

Installment 

Interest 

Investments 

Mortgage 

Optimize 

Order 

Pert  Tree 

Rate 

Return  1 

Return  2 

Schedule  1 

Games  & 

Pictures 


95 

Animals  Four 

Astronaut 

Bagel 

Bio  Cycle 

Cannons 

Checkers 

Craps 

Dogfight 

Golf 

Judy 

Line  Up 

Pony 

Roulette 

Sky  Diver 

Tank 

Teach  Me 

A.  Newman 

J.F.K. 

Linus 

Ms.  Santa 

Nixon 

Noel  Noel 

Nude 

Peace 

Policeman 

Santa's  Sleigh 

Snoopy 

Virgin 


Vol.  II  $24 

Binomial 

Chi-Sq. 

Coeff. 

Confidence  1 

Confidence  2 

Correlations 

Curve 

Differences 

Dual  Plot 

Exp-Distri 

Least  Squares 

Paired 

Plot 

Plotpts 

Polynomial  Fit 

Regression 

Stall 

Stat  2 

T-Distribution 

Unpaired 

Variance  1 

Variance  2 

XY. 

APPENDIX  A 


95 

Beam 

Conv. 

Filter 

Fit 

Integration  1 

Integration  2 

Intensity 

Lola 

Macro 

Max.  Min. 

Navaid 

Optical 

Planet 

PSD 

Rand  1 

Rand  2 

Solve 

Sphere  Trian 

Stars 

Track 

Triangle 

Variable 

Vector 


Vol.  Ill 
$39.95 

Billing 

Inventory 

Payroll 

Risk 

Schedule  2 

Shipping 

Stocks 

Switch 

Vol.  VI 
$49.95 

Mini-Ledger 

Payroll 

A/R 

Inventory 

Peprec. 

Ledger 


Vol.  VII 
$39.95 

Chess 

Medbil 

Wdproc 

Utility 


Vol.  IV 
$9.95 

Bingo 

Bonds 

Bull 

Enterprise 

Football 

Funds  1 

Funds2 

Go-Moku 

Jack 

Life 

Loans 

Mazes 

Poker 

Popul 

Profits 

Oubic 

Rates 

Retire 

Savings 

SBA 

Tic-Tac-Toe 


Vol.  V 
$9.95 

Andy  Cap 

Baseball 

Compare 

Confid  10 

Descrip 

Differ 

Engine 

Fourier 

Horse 

Integers 

Logic 

Playboy 

Primes 

Probal 

Ouadrac 

Red  Baron 

Regression  2 

Road  Runner 

Roulette 

Santa 

Stat  10 

Statu 

Steel 

Top 

Vary 

Xmas 

APPENDIX  B 


Vol.  VIII 
$19.95 

1040-Tax 

Balance 


lnstol78 
Deprec  2 
APPENDIX  C 


Vol.  IX 
$19.95 

Auto 

Cypher 

Hurrtrac 

ID 

Lorana 

Map 

Navigate 

Omega 

Patterns 

Radar 

RDF 


Vol.  X 
$69.95 

Intro. 
A/R 
A/P 
Mer  Inv 
Check 
Assets 
Payroll 
BalSh 
P/L 

Year  End 
Data  Base 
Tax  Up 
Basic  St. 


•  SPECIAL  BONUS*  15%  discounts  on  single  purchase  of  full  set 

by  December  31st,  1980 

Unconditional  Money  Back  Guarantee. 


Almost  every  single  program 
included  in  these  volumes  will  run  in 
every  Computer  system  that 
operates  in  Basic.  A  few  changes 
may  be  required  for  some  Basics  but 
most  of  these  changes  are  covered  in 
one  of  the  Tables  and  Appendices 
included  in  Volumes  III,  V,  VI, 
VIII,  and  X. 

Volume  VI  —  Disk  programs  are 
compatible  with  TRS-80  disk  basic 

The  disk  programs  in  Volumes  VI,  VII  and  X  are 
written  in  (CP/M)  M  Basic  and  Disk  Extended 
Microsoft  Basic.  Other  programs  written  in  8K 
Basic. 


Add  $1 .50  per  volume  handling,  all  domestic  shipments  sent  U.P.S.  except  APO  and 
P.O.  Box  which  go  parcel  post.  Foreign  orders  add  $6. 00/ volume  for  air  shipment  and 
make  payable  in  U.S.  dollars  only. 

AVAILABLE  AT  MOST  COMPUTER  STORES 

Master  Charge  and  Bank  Americard  accepted. 

Our  Software  is  copyrighted  and  may  not  be  reproduced  or  sold. 

Unlike  others  we  have  NOT  raised  our  prices  in  five  years 


KEMCO,  LTD. 

P.O.  Box2096L  Ashland,  VA  23005 

Sales  HOT  LINE  1-804-798-1147 

IN  GERMANY 

Ing.  W.  Hofacker,  GmbH 
Holzkirchen,  W.  Germany 


IN  HOLLAND 

Nanton  Press  B.V 
Bilthoven,  Holland 


OVER  116, 


\\\\\ 


USE  TODAY 


Programming  Quickies 


Complex  Number 
Subroutines 


William  R  Harlow,  Department  of  Mechanical  and  Industrial 
Engineering,  836  Rhodes  Hall,  University  of  Cincinnati, 
Cincinnati  OH  45221 

I  teach  numerical  methods  to  engineering  students  at 
the  University  of  Cincinnati,  where  we  have  an  Amdahl 
computer.  Also,  various  departments  have  purchased 
Heath,  IMSAI,  Radio  Shack,  and  Wang  systems. 
Although  the  big  system  has  built-in  hardware  to  per- 
form complex  operations,  the  smaller  systems  must  have 
them  implemented  as  subroutines. 

Besides  the  four  fundamental  operations  of  addition, 
subtraction,  multiplication,  and  division,  there  are 
several  important  functions  of  a  complex  variable.  These 
include  log(z),  e',  sin(z),  cos(z),  z",  and  others.  Since 
addition  and  subtraction  are  so  easy  to  handle,  they  are 
not  included  in  the  routines  listed  here. 

Listing  1  gives  a  set  of  BASIC  routines  to  do  the  com- 
plex operations  listed  in  table  1.  Other  functions  not 


Listing  1:  Subroutines  for  manipulation  of  complex  numbers. 
See  table  1  for  a  description  of  the  functions  calculated.  Note 
that  some  of  the  routines  use  the  constant  §PI,  which  should  be 
set  to  3.1415926535. 


1000  REM 

1010  M1=A1*A2-B1*B2:M2=A1*B2+A 

2000  REM 

2010  D=A2«+B2*2 

2020  01=<A1*A2+B1*B2)/D:  Q2«<A2 

35000  REM 

3010  R=SGR(Alt2+Blt2>: I=SGN(A1 

3020  ON  .[  GOTO  3060,3060,3070, 

3030  B=ARCTAN(B1/A1>-HPI:  GOTO 

3060  B=(-(tPI/2)  :G0T0  3120 

3060  B=ARCTAN(B1/A1> ':  G0TU  3120 

3070  B=ttPI:  GOTO  3120 

3080  B=0:G0T0  3120 

3090  B=ttPI+ARCTAN(Bl/Al>  :  GOTO 

3100  B«*PI/2'.  GOTO  3120 

3110  Pl,P2=0:GOT0  3120 

3120  R0=P*L0G<R>  :  R=EXP<R0> 

3130  P1=R*C0S(P*B) : P2=R«8IN<P* 

4000  REM 

4010  I=SGN(Al)+3«SGN(Bl)+4 

4020  IF  1=4  THEN  4120 

4030  L=.5*L0G<Alt2+Blt2> 

4040  ON  I  GOTO  4060,4070,4080, 

4060  L2=ARCTAN<Bl/Al>-ttPI:  GOTO 

4060  L2=<-ttPI/2>:  GOTO  4130 

4070  L2=ARCTAN<B1/A1>: GOTO  413 

4080  L2=(ttPI)  :  GOTO  4130 

4090  L.2=0:  GOTO  4130 

4100  L2=HPI+ARCTAN(B1/A1>: GOTO 

4110  L2=t*PI/2;  GOTO  4130 

4120  PRINT  "L0G(Z)  IS  UNDEFINE 

4130  L1=L: RETURN 

6000  REM 

6010  E1=EXP(A1)*C0S<B1) ! E2=EXP 

6000  REM 

6010  U1  =  <EXP(B1>--EXP(-B1) )/2: U 

6020  S1=SIN<A1)*U2:S2=C0S<A1>* 

7000  REM 

7010  Ul  =  <EXP<Bl>-rXP<-Bl>>.-  ;u 

7020  C1=C0S(A1)*U2;  C2=SIN<A1>* 

8000  REM 

8010  IF  B1O0  THEN  80S0 

8020  IF  AK0  THEN  8040 

8030  R1=SSR<A1 ) : R2=0: RETURN 

8040  R1=0: R2=S«R(-A1) : RETURN 

8060  R=S0R(Al+2+Bl1'2) 

8060  R1=S0R< <R+Al>/2> : R2=8GN(B 


2*81 ;  RETURN 


*Bl-Al«B2)/0: RETURN 

)+3*SGN(Bl)+4 

3110,3080,3090,3100,3060 

3120 


B> : RETURN 


4120,4090,4100,4110,4070 
4130 

4130 
0" i STOP  : RETURN 

<A1>*SIN(B1>: RETURN 

2=  <  EXP ( Bl >  +EXP ( -B 1 ) ) /2 
Ul : RETURN 

2=<EXP(B1 )+EXP<-Bl ) )/2 
<-Ul>: RETURN 


1 )»SHR( (R-Al )/2) : RETURN 


Other 

Operation                                                                                  Variables 

Line  Number              type                                                    Input;  Use                        Used 

Output 

1000                             product  z,xz2                                        A1,B1;A2,B2 

M1.M2 

2000                             quotient  Z!  /  z2                                        A1,B1;A2,B2                       D 

Q1.Q2 

3000                             power    z'                                              A1.B1                                 P,R,I,B 

P1.P2 

4000                             natural  logarithm  Ln  z                            A1.B1                                 l,L 

L1.L2 

5000                             exponential  e*                                        A1.B1 

E1.E2 

6000                             sine    sin  z                                             A1.B1                                 U1.U2 

S1.S2 

7000                             cosine    cos  z                                        A1.B1                                 U1.U2 

C1.C2 

8000                             square  root  z"2                                      A1.B1                                 R 

R1.R2 

Table  1:  Table  of  complex  number  operations  performed  by  subroutines  in  listing  1.  In  the  "Input" 

column  (Al,  Bl)  refers 

to  the  complex  number  Al+Bli,  where  i  is  the  square  root  of  —1.  In  the  "Output"  column,  the  two 

numbers  listed  are  the 

real  and  imaginary  parts  of  the  answer;  eg:  the  output  variables  Ml  and  M2  of  the  multiplication 

routine  mean  that  the 

result  of  the  multiplication  is  the  complex  number  MJ+M2i. 

116        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


The  best  in  data  base  management 
for  your  micro-computer 


Get  the  most  out  of  your  micro-computer.  Use  our 

advanced  and  progressive  data  management  system. 


HDBS  is  an  extended  hierarchical  data  base 
system  offering 

•  fixed  length  records 

•  file-level  read/write  protection 

•  one-to-many  set  relationships 


t 

p 

: 

h 

MDBS  is  a  full  network  data  base  system  offered 
as  an  upgrade  from  HDBS. .  .or  it  may  be  ideal  as 
your  initial  system.  Unique  and  versatile,  it  adds 
these  features: 

•  full  network  CODASYL-oriented  data  structures 

•  variable  length  records 

•  multiple  levels  of  read/write  protection 

•  one-to-one,  many-to-one,  and  many-to-many  sets 

•  non-redundancy  of  data,  easy  updating 

•  occurrences  of  a  record  type  may  own  other 
occurrences  of  the  same  type 

•  a  single  set  may  have  multiple  owner  and  member 
record  types 


MDBS-DRS.  As  an  add-on  to  MDBS,  the  DRS 

system  offers  extraordinary  flexibility  in  data  base 

restructuring  to  meet  new  needs. 

•  Item,  record,  and  set  types  can  be  added,  deleted, 
or  renamed  in  an  existing  data  base  as  well  as 
other  data  base  characteristics.  You  can  redesign 
the  data  base  after  it  is  already  on-line! 


MDBS-RTL.  As  an  add-on  to  MDBS,  the  RTL 
(Recovery  Transaction  Logging)  logs  all  data  base 
transactions,  so  that  in  the  event  of  a  system 
failure,  the  data  base  can  be  recovered  with 
minimal  loss  of  information. 
•  The  recovery  processor  permits  selective 
reloading  of  the  data  base  from  the  transaction 
file.  Users  can  log  messages,  indicate  complex 
transaction  sequences,  and  effect  selective 
control  over  the  recovery  process. 


MDBS-QRS.  An  interactive  Report- 
Writer/Query-System  for  HDBS/MDBS  data  bases. 
Featu  res . . . 

•  may  be  customized  for  non-technical  users 

•  complex  retrieval  conditions  may  be  specified 

•  detailed  reports  can  be  quickly  generated 

•  wildcard  and  "match-one"  string  specifications 
included 


HDBS  and  MDBS  Packages  Include: 

•  DDL  data  definition  language  analyzer/editor 

•  260-page  users  manual 

•  DMS  data  management  routines  callable  from 
host  language 

•  Sample  application  program  and  DDL  files 

•  Relocator  to  re-org  all  routines 

•  System  specific  manual  for  bringing  up  our 
software 


54-page  "primer"  on  data  base 
systems  for  micro-computers  — 
only  $10.00  per  copy. 

Dealer  Demo-Package  ($60.00) 
includes  Primer,  HDBS/MDBS 
Manuals,  Demo-Disk,  etc. 


Both  HDBS  and  MDBS  Systems. . . 

•  Run  under. .. 
CP/M®  with  CBASIC;  Microsoft  BASICS, 

FORTRAN  or  COBOL;  InterSystem 
PASCAL/Z;  Sorcim  PASCAL/M;  Micro 
Focus  CIS  COBOL;  Digital  Research  PL/I 

OASIS 

TRSDOS  and  NEWDOS  (Models  I  and  II)  with 
Disk  BASIC 

North  Star  DOS  with  North  Star  BASIC 

Apple  DOS  and  Applesoft  BASIC 

Machine  Language  Interface  available  on  all 
above  systems. 

•  Up  to  254  record-types  definable  in  the  data  base; 
each  record-type  may  contain  up  to  255  item- types; 
each  item-type  may  be  up  to  9,999  bytes  in  length. 

•  Names  of  data  items,  records,  sets,  and  files  are 
wholly  user  definable. 

•  Commands  to  add,  delete,  update,  search,  and 
traverse  the  data  base. 

•  Straightforward  use  of  ISAM-like  structures. 

•  Records  can  be  maintained  in  several  sorted 
orders. 

•  Written  in  machine  language  for  maximum 
execution  efficiency  and  minimal  memory  usage. 

•  Independent  of  types  and  sizes  of  disk  drives. 
Support  data  base  spread  over  several  disk  drives 
(max. 8);  disks  may  be  mini-  or  full-sized  floppies 
or  hard  disks. 

•  Available  versions:  Z80  (requires  approx.  18K), 
6502  (approx.  30K),  8080  (approx.  22K) 

Total  memory  requirement  must  allow  for  buffer 
areas.  For  Apple  users,  a  language  card  is 
recommended. 

•  8086  version  available.  (Call  or  write  for  details 
and  prices.) 

Ordering  information  (applicable  to  Z80,  8080 
and  6502  versions): 

When  ordering,  specify  intended 
use  with. .. 

1 .  North  Star  DOS  and  BASIC 

2.  CP/M«  -  CBASIC 

3.  CP/M"  -  Microsoft  BASIC  4.XX 

4.  CP/M®  -  Microsoft  BASIC  5.XX 

5.  CP/M»  -  Microsoft  BASIC  or 
FORTRAN  Compiler 

6.  CP/M®  -  Microsoft  COBOL-80 

7.  CP/M»  -  InterSystem  PASCAL/Z 

8.  CP/M«  -  Sorcim  PASCAL/M 

9.  CP/M»  -  Digital  Research  PL/I 

10.  CP/M»  -  Micro  Focus  CIS 
COBOL 

11.  TRSDOS/NEWDOSandTRS 
Disk  BASIC  (Models  I  and  II) 

12.  Apple  DOS  and  Applesoft  BASIC 

13.  OASIS 

14.  Machine  Language  Programs 
(Specify  operating  system.) 


HDBS  (Version  1.04) 

$  300.00 

MDBS  (Version  1.04) 

900.00 

DRS 

300.00 

RTL 

300.00 

QRS 

300.00 

HDBS  upgrade  to  MDBS 

650.00 

MDBS  with  DRS. 

RTL.  and  ORS 

1500.00 

HDBS/MDBS  Manual 

35.00 

DRS  Manual 

5.00 

RTL  Manual 

5.00 

QRS  Manual 

5.00 

System  Specific 

Manuals  (each) 

5.00 

Within  a  given  operating  system, 
add  $125. 00  for  each  additional 
language  selected 

For  prices  outside  the  U.S.  and 
Canada,  please  ask  for  price  lists. 


Add  $2.50  handling  fee  for  non-cash 
order  ($5.00  outside  U.S.). 


Indiana  residents  add  4%. 

We  accept  Visa  and  Master  Charge. 


o  o  *...**.*„< — „ 


i  Setting  standards  of  excellence  for  data  base 
software. .  .worldwide. 


Micro 
Data  Base 
Systems,  inc. 

Box  248,  Lafayette,  Indiana  47902 
317-448-1616 


Circle  71  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980        117 


included  could  be  the  hyperbolic  and  inverse 
trigonometric  functions.  The  square  root  of  a  complex 
number  was  included  even  though  it  is  a  special  case  of 
z".  The  only  complicated  ones  are  the  power  and  the 
logarithm.  This  is  due  to  the  angle  utilized. 

The  subroutines  have  been  given  large  line  numbers  so 
that  they  may  be  put  at  the  end  of  a  program.  Users  can 
certainly  renumber  these  lines  or  use  only  those  needed 
for  a  particular  problem. 

Two  rather  simple  problems  (see  listings  2  and  3)  are 
included  to  demonstrate  the  use  of  the  functions.  Both 
make  use  of  Newton's  method  to  solve  for  the  roots  of  a 
function.  This  is  done  using  the  following  iterative  for- 
mula to  obtain  a  better  approximation  of  z,  zl+1,  from  the 
current  approximation,  z*: 

zktl=zk- f(zk)/f(zk)  where  k=l,2,... 

An  initial  or  starting  value  of  z  is  selected  (z=x+iy). 
Thus  zt  «■  Xi  +  iyt  is  used  in  /(zj  and  f(zt).  This  will 
generate  a  z2  which  is  fed  back  into  the  right-hand  side  of 
the  equation  to  give  a  z»,  and  so  on. 

The  method  is  rapid  in  convergence  and  quite  stable.  If 
a  certain  zk  should  make  f(zk)  very  small  or  zero, 
however,  it  is  best  to  restart  with  a  new  z,.  In  the  pro- 
grams shown,  a  test  to  stop  cycling  is  made  on  the  f(z): 

IF  SQR(Flt2+F2t2)  <1E-6THEN  .  .  . 

This  statement  stops  the  iteration  when  the  complex  error 
has  a  magnitude  of  less  than  10~6.  ■ 


Listing  2:  Example  program  using  the  subroutines  of  listing  1. 
The  program  given  in  listing  2a  attempts  to  find  a  root  of  the 
function  f(z)=e'  —  z2.  Note  that  its  derivative  f(z)=  g(z)=C— 
2z.  Listing  2b  shows  two  separate  runs  of  the  program  with 
starting  points  of  (1,1)  and  (—1,0);  the  final  results  are  under- 
lined. Due  to  the  cyclic  nature  ofe',  there  are  an  infinite  number 
of  solutions  to  this  problem. 


(2a) 


10  INPUT  " 

12  PRINT 

IS  PRINT  TABQ4):  X,  Y 

20  A1=X:  Bl-Y 

30  GOSUB  S000 

40  P=2 

50  GOSUB  3000 

60  F1=E1-Pl: F2=E2-P2 

65  IF  SQK<Flt2+F2t2KlE-6 

70  G1=E1-2*A1: G2=E2-2*B1 

B0A1=F1:B1=F2:  A2=G1!B2=G2 

90  GOSUB  2000 

100  K»X-at:Y«Y-Q2 

110  GOTO  15 

120  STOP  "  ROOT 


KEY  IN  X.Y 


DETERMINED.  KEY  RUN  FOR  A  NEW  SET" 


(2b) 


2.912389622376 

2.187132232955 

1.760811047732 

1.603663701734 

1.58722527008 

1.588042823737 

1.58804726466? 


2.575157181739 

2.174648753578 

1.808824533853 

1.596954184978 

1.54253028231 

1.S40223443863 

1.540223501065 


X,  -  -1  Y,  m  0 

-.733043605249  0 

-.7038077863239  0 

-.7034674683272  0 


6809  i-100    aita 


TM 


SINGLE  BOARD  COMPUTER 

•    MEETS  I.E.E.E.  S-100  STANDARD 

^     •  10  addressing  modes 
<§>  •  24  indexed  sub  modes 
^r  •  auto  increment/decremen 
•  constant  indexing  from  PC 


J>* 


"tt 


4K/8K/16K  ROM      •    2K  RAM 

ROM/RAM  relocatable  on  4K  boundary 

•  ACIA;  PIA;  8080  SIMULATED  I/O 

•  20  PARALLEL  I/O  LINES     •   256  I/O  PORTS 

ACIA  provides  RS-232  lines  for  asychronous  com 
munications  with  limited  modem  control  at  8  select 
able  baud  rates;  I/O  locatable  at  any  4K  boundary 

P.C.  Board  &  Manual  $69.95 
with  Monitor  $99.95 

•  ASSEMBLED  &  TESTED  WITH  2K  RAM 
&  MONITOR  $349.50 

„     „ %jW       ItltffJ 

•  adsMON:  ADS  MONITOR 

Examine  and  change  registers  and  memory;  punch 
and  load  in  Motorola  format;  user  definable  inter- 
rupt service  and  more 
$39.95  in  2716  EPROM 

llillll 

MasterCharge/VISA  Accepted 
Illinois  residents  add  sales  tax  Add  2.5%  for  shipping 

Ackerman  Digital  Systems,  Inc 

110  N.  York  Rd.,  Suite  208,  Elmhurst,  III.  60126  (312)  530-8992 


118       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  72  on  inquiry  card. 


Listing  3:  Example  program  using  the  subroutines  of  listing  1. 
The  program  given  in  listing  3a  attempts  to  find  a  root  of  the 
function  l(z)=2z2  +(-6  -  i>z  +  (20  -  i)  =  (2z  +  4  -  U(z  - 
5).  (Its  roots  are  (—2  +  0.5\)  and  5.)  The  derivative 
i'(z)=g(z)=4z  +  (—6  —i).  Two  runs  of  the  program  are 
shown  in  listing  3b,  with  the  final  results  underlined. 


(3a) 


10  INPUT  "  KEY  IN  X, Y  ",X,Y 

12  PRINT 

15  PRINT  TABC14); X, Y 

20  A1»X: B1=Y 

40  P-2 

50  GOSUB  3000 

60  Fl=2*Pl:F2=2«P2 

70  A2=-6: B2=-l 

80  GOSUB  1000 

90  F1=F1+M1-20:F2=F2+M2+S 

95  IF  S0R(Fl1'2+F2t2)<lE-6  THEN  200 

100  Gl=4»Al-6: G2=4»B1-1 

110  Al=Fl: B1=F2! A2=Gl:B2=G2 

120  GOSUB  2000 

130  X=X-01: Y=Y-B2 

140  GOTO  15 

200  STOP  "ROOT  DETERMINED.  KEY  RUN  FOR  A  NEW  SE1 


(3b) 


i 

-3.307692307727 

-1.45941644561 

-1.434942737807 

-2.053130882705 

-2.00036624035 

-2.00000001228 


Y,  -  1 


-4.461538461515 
-1.379310344755 
.532192367931 
.4886935917174 
.499806328929  7 
■  4999999788526 


Xi  -  2 


Y,  -  2 


2.207547169882 
2.830440251643 
4.902563504007 

4.604564248345 
5.015324400454 
4.999923902019 
4.9999999991/7 


-2.226415094319 
1.193459119487 

-1.877088064073 

-. 193451138577 
2.68292464E-02 
1.12126O02E-04 

-2.49665620E-0V 


BYTE's  Bits 


International  Systems 

and  Courseware 

Exchange 

One  of  the  greatest  deter- 
rents facing  organizations 
that  desire  to  purchase  a 
microcomputer  is  the  fact 
that  the  development  of 
systems  applications  soft- 
ware is  costly  and  time- 
consuming.  In  an  attempt  to 
find  a  solution  to  this  situa- 
tion, John  Earle  Associates 
Inc   has  met  with  educators, 
professionals,  and  business 
people  to  discuss  means  for 
alleviating  this  problem. 
These  discussions  culminated 
in  the  establishment  of  the 
International  Systems  and 
Courseware  Exchange 
(ISCE).  The  purposes  of  the 
ISCE  are  to  enable  schools, 
businesses,  and  professionals 
to  license  others  to  use  their 
proprietary  courseware  and 
systems  for  an  annual  fee  on 
a  lease  basis,  and  to  recover 
the  developmental  costs  of 
the  software  through  the 
licensing  fee.  All  schools, 
governmental  agencies,  doc- 
tors, lawyers,  engineers,  ac- 
countants, businesses, 
manufacturers,  and  free- 
lance developers  of  systems 
applications,  courseware,  or 
games  are  welcome  to  par- 
ticipate, as  providers  or  as 
users;  or  as  is  the  case 
within  many  businesses  and 
schools,  they  may  be  includ- 
ed in  both  categories. 

A  free  catalog  will  be  pro- 
vided to  each  individual  or 
organization  with  listings  in 
the  catalog.  Catalogs  will  be 
available  to  others  for  $10. 

The  first  catalog  contain- 
ing listings  of  software  and 
all  information  necessary  to 
order  or  submit  programs 
will  be  published  in  January, 
1981.  Catalog  entries  dealing 
with  administrative  or 
business  applications  should 
be  mailed  to  Howard  R 
Baldwin,  Registrar,  Univer- 
sity of  Akron,  3220  Miles 
NW,  Canton  OH  44718. 
Catalog  entries  concerning 
educational  or  professional 


applications  should  be  sent 
to  Swen  A  Larsen,  Dean  of 
Science  and  Technology, 
World  University,  Barbosa 
esq  Guayama,  Hato  Rey, 
Puerto  Rico  00917.  For  a 
copy  of  the  catalog  or  for 
more  information,  contact 
John  Earle  Associates  Inc, 
POB  12213,  Loiza  Station, 
Santurce,  Puerto  Rico 
00914. 


Pass  the  Salt  and  the 
Computer,  Please 

Eleven  of  the  nation's 
newspapers  affiliated  with 
the  AP  (Associated  Press) 
are  experimenting  with  elec- 
tronic delivery  of  news  to 
the  home.  Through  the  joint 
efforts  of  the  newspapers, 
the  AP,  and  CompuServe 
Inc,  an  information  net- 
working firm,  a  daily  elec- 
tronic edition  will  be 
published  for  at  least  six 
months.  The  results  of  this 
test  will  be  shared  with  the 
1300  daily  newspapers  and 
3500  radio  and  television 
stations  that  are  a  part  of 
the  AP  news  cooperative. 

The  newspapers  par- 
ticipating are  The  Columbus 
Dispatch;  The  Washington 
Post;  Los  Angeles  Times; 
The  Neio  York  Times; 
Chicago  Sun-Times;  The  St 
Louis  Post-Dispatch;  The 
Minneapolis  Star  and 
Tribune;  The  Atlanta  Jour- 
nal and  Constitution;  The 
Norfolk  Virginian-Pilot  and 
Ledger-Star;  San  Francisco 
Chronicle;  and  The  Middle- 
sex News  (Framingham, 
Massachusetts).  Each  news- 
paper contributes  news  items 
and  computing  expertise  to 
produce  the  news  that  is 
delivered  to  the  Compu- 
Serve computers.  Customers 
with  a  terminal  and  modem 
merely  have  to  place  a 
telephone  call  to  link  up 
with  the  electronic  editions. 
Home  users  are  charged  $5 
per  hour,  billed  in  1-minute 
increments.  The  service 


operates  from  6  PM  to  5 
AM  weekdays  and  all  day 
on  weekends  and  holidays. 
The  experimenters  hope 
that  the  test  will  provide 
substantial  information  on 
marketing  the  service,  pro- 
motion, design  of  the  data 
base,  and  new  sources  of 
advertising  revenue.  For 
more  information,  contact 
CompuServe  Inc,  5000  Ar- 
lington Centre  Blvd,  Colum- 
bus OH  43220,  (614) 
457-8600. 


Tuition-Free  Program 

for  Women  in 
Electrical  Engineering 

A  brochure  from  the 
University  of  Dayton 
outlines  a  National  Science 
Foundation-sponsored  Fast- 
Track  program  for  women 
interested  in  electrical 
engineering.  To  qualify,  an 
applicant  must  hold  a 
bachelor's  degree  in 
mathematics,  physics,  or  a 
related  science.  Participants 
earn  a  certificate  that  serves 
to  advance  them  to  an 


academic  level  equivalent  to 
that  of  an  electrical 
engineering  graduate. 
Credits  earned  can  be  ap- 
plied toward  a  bachelor's 
degree  in  electrical  engineer- 
ing. A  Fast-Track  staff  at 
the  university  offers  counsel- 
ing and  guidance,  assists  in 
part-time  work  placement, 
arranges  for  partial  living 
expense  stipends  and  place- 
ment in  engineering  jobs  at 
program  conclusion.  The 
program  commences  January 
5,  1981,  and  lasts  thru 
December  19,  1981.  Copies 
of  the  brochure,  entitled 
Women  Interested  in 
Engineering,  can  be  obtained 
by  writing  or  calling  Carol 
M  Shaw,  Assistant  Dean, 
School  of  Engineering, 
University  of  Dayton, 
Dayton  OH  45469,  (513) 
229-2736.  ■ 


SAVE  AT  THE  APPLE  COMPUTER  SUPERMARKET... 

"Computers 'R'  us" 

UNBEATABLE  MAIL  ORDER  DISCOUNTS 
„     A  SUBSIDIARY  OF  CONSUMER  COMPUTERS 


CHRISTMAS 

SUPER 

SALE 


APPLE  II  PLUS 

OR  APPLE  II  STANDARD 


16K 


1049 


i 


DISK  II  DRIVE  S/IOC 

^/CONTROLLER  "WO^ 

.        PASCAL  %jm*%r 
SYSTEM    >«l^5 


OFFER 
EXPIRES 
DEC.  31 
1980 


SEE   PAOI   391 
FOR  MORI  PRODUCTS  AND 
ORDERING  INFORMATION 


ORDER  TOLL  FREE:  1-800-854-6654 

CALIFORNIA,  BACKORDER  OR  TECHNICAL  INFO:  (714)  698-8088 

CREDIT  CARD  USERS  PLEASE  SEE  ORDERING  INSTRUCTIONS  ON  PAGE  391 


Circle  73  on  inquiry  card. 


November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc        119 


Manufacturing  and  marketing  micro  products  is 
our  only  business. 


QT  is  committed  to 
building  uncommon 
features  and  quality 
into  each  of  its  micro 
user  products.  Were 
offering  you  the 
lowest  prices  on  the 
QT  System  + 
and  other  fine  pro- 
ducts. It's  our  new 
beginning. 


-  Look  At  These  QT 

System  +  Features: 
2  Megabyte  storage  (standard) 

•  Up  to  It)  Megabytes  storage 
available  •  Mainframe  with  power 
supply  and  tan  •  Televideo  920C 
terminal  •  CPU-Z80-4MHZ  •  Two 
8"  disk  drives  •  Floppy  disk  con- 
troller (double  density)  •  Dynamic 
Memory  (48K  — expandable  to 
64K)  •  2K  Monitor  program  and 
Disk  Bios  on  2716  EPROM 

•  RAM/ROM/PROM,  up  to  8K  in 
any  combination  on  CPU  •  Hairi 
Disk  Compatible  •  2  Serial/2 
Parallel  Ports  •  Real  Time  Clock 

•  EPROM  Programmer  •  CP/M 
2.2  or  1.4  Operating  System 

•  MP/M'  Compatible  •  Full  line 
of  business  software  available 

SYSTEM  +  SS  (1  Megabyte) 
Sgl  Side/Dbl  Oen  14295.00, 
SYSTEM  +  DS  (2  Megabytes) 
Dbl  Side/Dbl  Den  S4995  00 


coMPim  k 
SYSTEMS 

1            INC. 

15620  South  Inql 
Lawndale.  CA  30 
(213)  970-0952 

ewonif  / 

Wenue 

J 

Call  TOLL  FREE 
(Except  Alaska.  C 

800-421 

alitor  nia 

-5150 
and  Hawai 

■  Silence  +  Mother  Boards 

No  need  tor  termination  •  Very 
high  crosstalk  rejection  •  6.  8.  12 
and  18  slots  available  •  Has 
operated  to  14  MHZ  quietly 

Bare  6-Slot  8-Slot  12-Slol  18-Slot 

Bd  S24.95  526.95  S29  95      $49  95 

Kit  S39.95  $54.95  S69.95      S99  95 

A&T  S49  95  $69.95  S89  95    SI39.95 

■  SBC+   2/4 

1K  RAM  On  Board  •  2  Program- 
mable Timers  •  Power  On  jump  to 
On-Board  IK  or  2K  EPROM 
(2708-2716)  •  2  Separate  Parallel 
Ports  •  Programmable  Baud  Rate 
Selection  (110  to  9600)  •  Serial 
1/0  Port  (RS-23ZI. 
Bare  Board    S60.00       KM  S190  00 

IK  Mem.  Hit  St?. 00       Ail        S28I1.0H 

Expandable  +  Dynamic 
Memory  (16K  to  64K) 
Uses  3242  Refresh  Chip  with 
delay  line  •  Quiet  tour  layer  PC  Bd 
•  Supports  16K.  32K.  48K  01  64K 
ol  memoiy  •  24  Addiess  lines  pel 
IEEE  specifications  •  Bank  on  oil 
signal  selected  by  I  0  port  40 
(Hex)  per  industry  standard 

Bare  Board  $70 .00  48K  Kit  $480  00 
16KKU  S280.00  «K  fl.1 1  S5l.ll  no 
16KA&I  S325.00  64K  Kil  S525  1)0 
32KKH  $360  00       63KA&JS625  00 

"KASI       S Wo  mi 
_  I/O  + 
Two  Independent  SYNC  ASYNC 
Serial  Ports  •  One  Strobed 
8-Bit  Parallel  Input  Pert  With 
Handshaking  •  Three  B-Bit 
Parallel  Ports  lUnderitcated.  User 


16-Bit  Timers 


Bate  Board    $89  00 
Kit  $275  00 


RAIY1+   65 

2  oi  4MHZ  •  16K  Static  RAM 

•  Uses  2114L  static  RAMS  •  Ad- 
dressable in  4K  steps  •  Memory 
pi  election  in  1K  increments 

•  Features  bank  selection 

2MH2  4MH2 

Bare  Hoard     $20. W  Kil  $225  UU 

Kit  S200.00  AX1         S250  011 

A&1  S240.00 

■  Clock/Calendar  + 

[lay,  Week.  Month,  Yeai  •  24 
Hour  I ime.  or  12  Hour  AM  PM 
(selectable)  •  Interval  Interrupt 
Timet    1024  H:  lappiiixiinately  I 


Bate  Board    $45  1111       A&  1         S150  11 

Kit  sum  no 

~~  Mainframe  +  IMF  + 

•  Cabinet  •  30A  Pwt  Supply  •  12 
oi  18  Slot  M nt he i ho.t id  •  Fan 
cooled  •  AC  Line  Fillet  to 
eliminate  I  Ml  •  A&l  •  Power  and 
Reset  Switches  on  trout  panel 

Mt  +   12  $450  oo 

Mt  +   18  $500  nn 

Mt  +  W  llMiithi'ihrd       $40o  nn 

■  Mainframe  +  Mi  +  Ml) 

Accepts  ?  Each  h'«"  lltsk  Drives 

•  18A  Pwi  Supply  •  6  12  Slot 


isinn  •  Disk  lliivc  ('owe 
AC  line  tiltei  to  Bltmtti.it 
wei  and  reset  switches 


mi  ♦  Mm.'  $500  nn 

Ml  +   MPS  S450  00 

Mt  +    MOW    llMuthritjrit    $*00  Oil 

■  DDC-8  + 

Availdhle  in  Blown  oi  1  RS  80 
Colors  •  Disk  Cabinet  tor  Simile 
8"  Drive  •  Data  Cable  •  Fan" 
•  Accepts  Petset  Shugait, 
Siemens,  Remex.  UUMt 
lines  +   $250  on 
Also  Available    S-100  (Snuttl 
Pioto  Board  +    Ask  tor  out 
catalog 

WARRANTY:  1  ye.u  against 
detects  in  material  and  wotkm.ii 
ship  from  date  of  shipment  on  a 
01  products 


Letters  continued  from  page  20: 

Impressive  Bar-Code  Maker 

IBM  manufactures  a  type  element  that 
could  possibly  be  used  to  prepare  bar- 
code text  that  would  also  be  readable  by 
humans.  This  type  element  is  not  listed 
in  any  of  IBM's  typeface  catalogs.  It  is 
called  a  special-application  element,  and 
I  guess  IBM  figures  that  you  know  they 
have  it  if  you  want  it.  The  intended  ap- 
plication is  for  the  preparation  of  text 
for  input  on  a  Dataflow  Optical  Reading 
System. 

This  element  is  currently  available 
only  in  the  standard  88-character  for- 
mat. IBM  sales  representatives  in 


Michigan  could  not  find  out  if  it  was  go- 
ing to  be  manufactured  in  the  new 
96-character  format  too.  This  point  is 
not  very  important,  since  there  are  not 
too  many  of  the  new  96-character  Selec- 
trics  in  the  computer-users'  market.  The 
new  Selectric  III  will  use  the  96-character 
element  only,  so  it  won't  be  of  much  use 
to  anyone  in  the  market  to  upgrade, 
since  they  would  lose  their  investment  in 
the  type  elements  they  had. 

The  element  is  called  DF-2  OCR  and 
the  part  number  is  1167659.  IBM's  cur- 
rent price  is  $18  for  one  element,  or  $16 
each  for  three  or  more. 

IBM  recommends  that  you  use  a  Tech 
III  ribbon  (IBM  number  1136391)  with 


the  DF-2  OCR  element;  the  High-Yield 
Correctable  Film  carbon  ribbon  just 
doesn't  make  an  adequate  impression  all 
the  time.  The  DF-2  OCR  is  a  10-pitch 
element,  by  the  way,  so  don't  order  it 
unless  you  have  10-pitch  capacity.  I 
would  be  interested  in  hearing  from  any 
readers  who  interface  the  HEDS-3000  to 
their  computer  and  use  this  element  to 
generate  the  input  data. 

Michael  Essig 
POB  828 
Jackson  MI  49204 


Figure  1:  An  example  of  the  IBM.  DF-2  OCR  output,  using  the  High-Yield  Correctable  Film  Ribbon. 


The      IBM 

III  III  Mil      I!  I    II 


DF-2 

9    tl    I  I  I  I 


Type      element       is 
hi  milium     iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiii    mm 


ij  n  i  p  u  f>  optical   character   recognition   type 

illllllllllllllll       IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIS       I  Illllllllllllllll  IIIUIIIIIIl        IHIIIIIIIIIilSMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII       lllillllllllll 


face      combining      conventional       characters      with      a 
■iiiiiiiiinii    iiitiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiBi     iiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii    iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniin!    iiiiiiinii-  nil 


bar-code 
liiiiiiniii  iiiiiiniiiiii 


to  meet      the 

is*  ■  is  imiiiiuiiii    iiiiiiiiii 

IBM  recommends   the 

II  I    !k  llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll      iiiiiiiiii 


requirements  of      the      DATAFLOW  Optical       Reading      System. 

iuii!iii!i in ninmitiiiui mill!!  iiiiji     iiiiiiiiii    ii    i9ii   ii  nil  us  n  iiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiii    iii  imiiiii!iniiiiiii     in  iiiiiiiiiimiiiiii 

use      of      their  1FCH      III      ribbon  to      obtain      the      highest      print      <J  U  a  J  „'.  ,t  v   . 

iiiiiim    turn     illinium  mi  iginiin     n  n  n     iiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiii  nun    iiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiii     iiiiiiiiii    iiiiiiisiiiiiiiiiinii    ii'iiiiiiniiiii    iiiiniiiiiiiniiiiiiiiii 


ABCDEFGHIJ  KLMNOPQRSTUVWXY^ 

I     I    II    |    II   II   II   1 1  II  III  II  II  I!  II  1 1  III  Ii  lil  III  III  1 1  II  III  11  II  II 

abcdefoh!  j   k   Imnopq  rstuvwxyz 
iiiiiiii i  iiimiiisiiiii inn  la  n itiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiii  linn  iibiiiiii 


><  #  $  %  A  &  * ( ) ■+ 
illllllllfililllllllllllllllllll  I 

1234  5  67890 
inn  minium  iiiiiiiiii  iii 


IIIIIIIII3!       Elllilll 


,  .  / 

lllllllll 


STOP! 


Did  you  remember  to  remove 
your  Priority  One  insert?  If  not 
please  turn  back  to  page  80  and 
tear  it  out. 


m 


•  LOW  COST 


COMPUTER 
INSTANT  ADS 

Buy  or  sell  fast  with  the  Computer  Instant  Ads.  The  all  ad 
low  cost  computer  publication  for  individuals  and  businesses. 
It's  on  convenient  8 '/a"  by  11"  pages  in  easy  to  read  type. 

Bargains  —  Computers,  Components,  Peripherals,  Software, 
Positions  and  Help  Wanted,  whether  you're  buying,  selling, 
or  swapping  you  can  get  fast  results  at  low  cost  with  the  CIA. 

Instant  Ads  —  If  you  don't  want  to  wait  a  few  days  for  the  next 
CIA  issue— just  dial  our  special  computer  hot  line  number 
(reserved  for  subscribers)  anytime,  24  hours  a  day,  and  our 
computer  will  tell  your  computer  (with  300  baud  modem)  all 
about  the  ads  received  by  the  CIA  since  our  last  issue.  Call 
as  often  as  you  like.  The  only  additional  expense  to  you  is 
the  price  of  a  direct  dial  phone  call.  But  remember,  if  you 
don't  want  to  pay  for  the  phone  call,  you  only  have  a  few 
days  to  wait  because  the  CIA  is  published  TWICE  each  month. 

LOW  COST  ADVERTISING  -  Only  100  per  word  for  one  ad 
and  just  8<t  per  word  per  issue  when  the  same  ad  is  run  in 
two  or  more  consecutive  issues. 

FREE  ADVERTISING  —  Subscribe  now  for  free  advertising. 
Mail  an  ad  (up  to  50  words  type  written  or  printed,  please) 
to  us  with  your  subscription  and  we  will  run  it  free;  or  phone 
your  subscription  using  our  toll-free  number  and  charge  your 
subscription  to  your  VISA  or  Master  Charge  Card.  When  you 
telephone  your  subscription,  we  will  send  you  a  certificate 

'      ad  One  year  (24  issues)  only  $13.00 

Two  years  (48  issues)  only  $20.00 

Subscribe  NOW        Call  TOLL-FREE  1-800-453-6464 
In  Utah  phone  268-3000 

Qfll  COMPUTER  INSTANT  ADS  ASSOCIATION 

■iKI    277  East  6100  South     ■     Salt  Lake  City.  Utah  84107 


LOW  SUBSCRIPTION  RATES 


122       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  75  on  Inquiry  card. 


INT(X  N  X  SIN(X  2),X) 


Surprised?  You  should 
be.  Because  until  now,  no 
software  could  solve  any- 
thing but  the  most  basic 
arithmetic  problems  without 
a  series  of  complicated 
steps. 

A  big  disadvantage?  If 
you  use  a  microcomputer  for 
scientific,  educational  or  en- 
gineering applications,  you 
bet  it  is.  That's  why  Microsoft 
has  come  up  with  a  solution 
of  its  own.  muMath. 

muMath  is  a  symbolic 
math  package  you'll  recog- 
nize immediately  as  a  major 
advance  in  microcomputer 
software. 

muMath  lets  you  effi- 
ciently and  accurately  per- 
form the  most  complex 
mathematical  operations: 
Exact,  infinite  precision  ra- 
tional arithmetic.  Unbound 
variables.  Complex  expres- 
sions (even  equations  may 
be  included).  Exact  solution 
of  algebraic  equations.  Plus 
logarithmic,  exponential  and 
trigonometric  simplifications 
and  transformations. 

That's  right.  It  does  in  an 
instant  what  took  you  years 


to  learn  at  school.  Rational 
arithmetic.  Algebra.  Trigo- 
nometry. Transcendental 
functions.  Symbolic  differen- 
tiation (including  ordinary 
and  partial  derivatives.) 
Symbolic  integration  of  in- 
definite and  definite  integrals. 
Matrix  arithmetic  and 
algebra. 

Trigonometric  simplifica- 
tion? But  of  course.  Just  type: 


?SIN(2*Y)*(4*COS(X)A3 

-COS(3*X)+SIN(Y)XOS 

(X+Y+#P1)-COS(X-Y)); 

Then  instantly  muMath 

returns: 

@4*SIN(Y)  *COS(X)  *COS(Y). 

Adding  fractions?  Need 
you  ask? 

?1/3+5/6+2/5+3/7; 
©419/210. 

muMath  is  written  in 
muSIMP,  which  is  included  in 
the  muMath  package. 


10800  NE  Eighth 

Suite  819 

Bellevue.WA  98004 

206-455-8080 

Telex  328945 


We  set  the  standard. 


muSIMP  is  an  applicative, 
recursive  language,  ideal  for 
describing  complex  mathe- 
matical concepts. 

Because  of  its  highly 
interactive  nature  and  hier- 
archical structure,  muMATH 
is  an  excellent  math  teaching 
device,  from  simple  arith- 
metic to  calculus. 

muMATH  is  currently 
available  for  the  CP/M® 
operating  system. 

The  complete  system, 
including  muMATH  and 
muSIMP  on  disk  and  docu- 
mentation is  $250.  Runs 
under  CP/M. 

Just  what  you  need?  We 
thought  so.  Shoot  some 
questions  at  us  about 
muMATH.  We  have  all  the 
answers. 

Also  new  from  Micro- 
soft: the  muLISP  interpreter 
for  CP/M.  An  efficient  and 
reliable  LISP  system  fully 
capable  of  supporting  ser- 
ious artificial  intelligence 
efforts.  $200. 


CP/M  is  a  registered  trademark  of 
Digital  Research. 


Circle  76  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE's  BOMB  Cards 


From  the  first  year  of  BYTE  to  the 
present  we  have  put  great  stock  in  your 
monthly  comments  that  accompany 
BOMB  (BYTE's  Ongoing  Monitor  Box) 
cards.  We  really  do  read  every  one  of 
them,  and  we  are  often  influenced  by 
your  comments.  What  follows  is  a 
representative  sampling  from  the  cards 
over  the  past  few  issues.  By  the  way,  if 
you'd  like  to  add  your  votes  on  this 
month's  articles  to  our  tally,  simply  fill 
out  the  BOMB  card  at  the  back  of  the 
magazine,  using  the  article  table  on  the 
second-to-last  page  as  a  guide.... CM 

Pournelle: 

•  The  User's  Column  is  a  very  good 
idea — keep  on! 

•  Pournelle  is  great! 

•  More  Pournelle  please.  I'm  subscrib- 
ing. 

•  Very  interesting  theme.  No  more 
Pournelle,  please. 

•  [Pournelle  wrote  the]  best  article  on 
TRS-80  since  BYTE  began. 

•  Are  Pournelle's  articles  only  to  be 
semiregular7  I  vote  for  more. 

•  Pournelle  alone  will  get  me  to 
subscribe. 

•  Pournelle  has  no  finesse. 

•  Pournelle  helped  me  decide  between 
Radio  Shack,  Apple,  and  Atari... 
TRS-80  and  Omikron  here  I  come. 

•  Jerry  Pournelle's  column  told  me  far 
more  about  TRS-80  add-ons  than  I  have 
managed  to  learn  in  many  weeks  of 
searching. 

Ciarcia: 

•  Mr  Ciarcia  has  done  it  again. 

•  Don't  lose  Steve,  he's  worth  his 
weight  in  gold! 

•  You  should  put  two  or  three  more 


Steve  Ciarcias  on  the  payroll. 

•  Ciarcia 's  article  was  excellent,  but  on- 
ly Bo  Derek  gets  a  10. 

CAI: 

•  [I  was]  glad  to  have  some  really  good 
info  on  CAI  I 

•  There  were  too  many  articles  on  CAI. 

•  CAI  makes  as  much  sense  as 
substituting  computer-game  playing  for 
physical  education.  Education  is  achiev- 
ed through  dint  of  personal  dedication 
and  mental  application  of  effort. 
Chrome-plated  push-button  gee-gaws 
cannot  substitute  for  same. 

Others: 

•  Excellent  editorial. 

•  The  editorial  by  Dr  Braun  rated  a  ten. 

•  Editorials  should  be  rated. 

•  Your  product  description  of  the  Apple 
III  was  terrific — and  they  say  regular 
magazines  can't  get  new  products 
published  quickly. 

•  I  found  the  product  description  of  the 
Apple  III  outstanding. 

•  Not  being  so  good  at  hardware  and 
"systems  stuff,"  I  found  the  July  issue 
more  readable  than  usual. 

•  Surprisingly,  the  standard  of  the  July 
issue  was  exceptionally  low. 

•  After  I  finish  this  BOMB  card,  I'm  go- 
ing to  fill  out  the  subscription  form. 

•  The  quality  of  articles  in  BYTE  is 
slowly  going  downhill. 

•  [July  was  the]  best  overall  issue  of 
BYTE  in  a  while  I 

•  [July  was]  a  rather  dull  issue — let's 
keep  it  on  a  professional  level. 

•  Indeed  you  are  starting  to  speak 
English  instead  of  "highbrow." 
How  About... 

•  More  hardware! 

•  More  language-oriented  articles! 

•  More  homebrew  articles! 

•  More  on  16-bit  processors! 


•  Emphasis  on  personal  applications? 

•  Less  educational  material — more 
technical  articles? 

•  Publishing  'Tavorite  Benchmarks"  as 
they  come  in. 

•  Publishing  information  about  the 
Signetics  2650  microprocessor? 
Coming  up: 

•  I  would  like  to  see  articles  on 
homebrew  graphics  terminals. 

•  I  would  appreciate  more  articles  on 
the  new  16-  and  32-bit  microprocessors. 

•  I  would  very  much  like  to  see  in-depth 
articles  on  speech  recognition. 

•  When  will  you  publish  more  articles 
on  artificial  intelligence? 

•  It  would  be  nice  if  more  articles  could 
appear  on  fantasy  games.... 


CP/M  Vendors? 

As  the  developers  of  CP/M  and 
MP/M,  we  at  Digital  Research  are 
preparing  a  list  of  vendors  of  CP/M- 
compatible  software.  We  would  ap- 
preciate the  help  of  BYTE  readers  in 
compiling  this  list  for  distribution  to  all 
interested  persons  who  contact  us. 

If  you  are  currently  marketing  CP/M- 
compatible  software,  please  send  us  any 
or  all  literature  pertaining  to  your  soft- 
ware. If  you  have  any  questions,  please 
contact  Curt  Geske,  at  Digital  Research, 
POB  579,  Pacific  Grove  CA  93950,  or 
(408)  649-3896. 

Thank  you. 

Marilyn  Darling 
Digital  Research! 


r"     S-100  USERS:  GIVE  YOUR  COMPUTER  THE  GIFT  OF  SIGHT!        "^ 


The  DS-80  Digisector®  is  a  random 
access  video  digitizer.  It  works  in 
conjunction  with  a  TV  camera  (either 
interlaced  or  non-interlaced  video)  and 
any  S-100  computer  conforming  to  the 
IEEE  standards.  Use  it  for: 

•  Precision  Security  Systems 

•  Moving  Target  Indicators 

•  Computer  Portraiture 

•  Fast  To  Slow  Scan  Conversion 

•  Robotics 

•  Reading  UPC  Codes,  schematics, 
paper  tape,  musical  scores 

THmO©t^§) 


IMAGE  PROCESSED  BY  DS-80 


CHECK  THESE  FEATURES: 

□  High  resolution  —  a  256  x  256  pic- 
ture element  scan 

□  Precision  —  64  levels  of  grey  scale 

D  Speed  —  Conversion  time  of  14 
microseconds  per  pixel 

□  Versatility  —  scanning  sequences 
user  programmable 

□  Economy  —  a  professional  tool 
priced  for  the  hobbyist;  comes  fully 
assembled,  tested  and  burned  in, 
with  fully  commented  portrait  print- 
ing software. 

Price:  $349.95    MasterCharge  and  Visa 


P.O.  BOX  1110,  DEL  MAR,  CA  9201 4    71 4-942-2400J 


124        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  77  on  inquiry  card. 


A  Few  Extraordinary  Products  for  Your  6800/6809  Computer 

From  Percom  . .  . 

Low  Cost 
Mini-Disk  Storage 
in  the  Size  You  Want 


Percom  mini-disk  systems  start  as 
low  as  $599.95,  ready  to  plug  in  and 
run.  You  can't  get  better  quality  or  a 
broader  selection  ot  disk  software 
from  any  other  microcomputer  disk 
system  manufacturer — at  any  price ! 

Features:  1-,  2-  and  3-drive  systems 
in  40-  and  77-track  versions  store 
102K-  to  591K-bytes  of  random  ac- 
cess data  on-line  •  controllers  in- 
clude explicit  clock/data  separation 
circuit,  motor  inactivity  time-out  cir- 


cuit, buffered  control  lines  and  other 
mature  design  concepts  •  ROM 
DOS  included  with  SS-50  bus  ver- 
sion —  optional  DOSs  for  EXOR- 
ciser*  bus  •  extra  PROM  sockets 
on-board  •  EXORciser*  bus  version 
has  1  K-byte  RAM  •  supported  by  ex- 
tended disk  operating  systems;  as- 
semblers and  other  program  de- 
velopment/debugging aids;  BASIC, 
FORTRAN,  Pascal  and  SPL/M  lan- 
guages; and,  business  application 
programs. 


EXORciser*  Bus  LFD-400EX™  -800EX™  Systems 


Versatile  Mother  Board,  Full-Feature  Prototyping  Boards 


Printed  wiring  is  easily  soldered  tin-lead 
plating.  Substrates  are  glass-epoxy.  Pro- 
totyping cards  provide  for  power  regula- 
tors and  distributed  capacitor  bypassing , 
accommodate  14-,  16-,  24-  and  40-pin 
DIP  sockets.  Prototyping  boards  include 
bus  connectors,  other  connectors  and 
sockets  are  optional. 
MOTHERBOARD  —  accommodates  five 
SS-50  bus  cards,  and  may  itself  be 


The  SBC/9™.  A  "10"  By  Any  Measure. 

The  Percom  SBC/9™  is  an  SS-50  bus  compatible,  stand- 
alone Single-Board  Computer.  Configured  for  the  6809 
microprocessor,  the  SBC/9™  also  accommodates  a  6802 
without  any  modification.  You  can  have  state-of-the-art 
capability  of  the  '09.  Or  put  to  work  the  enormous  selection  of 
6800-coded  programs  that  run  on  the  '02. 

The  SBC/9™  includes  PSYMON™,  an  easily  extended  1- 
Kbyte  ROM  OS.  Other  features  include: 

•  Total  compatibility  with  the  SS-50  bus.  Requires  no  changes  to  the 
motherboard,  memory  or  I/O. 

•  Serial  port  includes  bit-rate  generator.  RS-232-C  compatible  with 
optional  subminiature  'D'  connector  installed.  10-pin  Molex  connec- 
tor provided. 

•  Eight-bit,  non-latched,  bidirectional  parallel  port  is  multi-address 
extension  of  system  bus.  Spans  a  30-address  field;  accommodates 
an  exceptional  variety  of  peripheral  devices.  Connector  is  optional. 

•  Includes  1-Kbyte  of  static  RAM. 

•  Costs  only  $199.95  with  PSYMON™  and  comprehensive  users 
manual  that  includes  source  listing  of  PSYMON™. 

T"  trademark  of  Percom  Data  Company,  Inc. 

•  trademark  of  the  Motorola  Corporation. 

Prices  and  specifications  subject  to  change  without  notice. 


plugged  into  an  SS-50  bus.  Features 
wide-trace  conductors.  Price:  $21.95 
SS-50  BUS  CARD — accommodates  34- 
and  50-pin  ribbon  connectors  on  top 
edge,  10-pin  Molex  connector  on  side 
edge.  Price:  $24.95. 

SS-30  BUS  CARD  —  1 '/.-inch  higher 
than  SWTP  I/O  card,  accommodates  34- 
pin  ribbon  connector  and  12-pin  Molex 
connector  on  top  edge.  Price:  $14.95. 


The  Electric  Window™:  Instant,  Real-Time  Video  Display  Control 

Memory  residency  and  outstanding  software  control  of  display  format  and 
characters  make  this  SS-50  bus  VDC  card  an  exceptional  value  at  only  $249.95. 
Other  features: 

•  Generates  128  charac- 
ters including  all  ASCII  dis- 
playable  characters  plus 
selected  Greek  letters  and 
other  special  symbols. 

•  Well-formed,  easy-to- 
read  7x12-dot  characters. 
True  baseline  descenders 

•  Character-store  (display)j 
memory  included  on  card. 

•  Provision  for  optional 
character  generato 
EPROM  for  user  defined 
symbols. 

•  Comprehensive  users! 
manual  includes  souro 
listing  of  Driver  software 
Driver  —  called  WINDEX™ 
—  is  also  available  on  mini- 
diskette through  the  Per- 
com Users  Group. 


PEflQOM 


PERCOM   DATA  COMPANY.    INC. 

211    N.    KIRBY    GARLAND.    TEXAS    75042 
(214)2723421 


Products  are  available  at  Percom  dealers  nationwide.  Call  toll-free, 

1-800-527-1592,  for  the  address  of  your  nearest  dealer,  or  to 

order  direct.  _.~_,  _ 

Circle  79  on  inquiry  card.    


Circle  78  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


125 


Graphic  Color  Slides 

Part  1 


Color  slides  of  graphs,  bar  charts, 
and  other  visual  aids  are  a  valuable 
addition  to  various  public  presenta- 
tions. When  made  using  conventional 
methods,  the  slides  are  expensive  to 
produce  and  difficult  to  modify.  But 
when  the  slide  is  produced  by 
photographing  a  computer-generated 
color  image  (as  described  in  my  arti- 
cle, "Making  Color  Slides  with  an 
Intecolor  Microcomputer,"  January 
1980  BYTE,  page  20),  the  slide  can  be 
produced  inexpensively  and  the  im- 
age can  be  modified  easily.  Points, 
lines,  bars,  and  curves  can  be  drawn 
to  represent  numeric  data. 

Unfortunately,  writing  the  pro- 
gram that  creates  the  screen  image 
can  be  tedious  and  time-consuming. 
Many  aspects  of  the  program  design, 
such  as  the  selection  of  suitable  scales 
and  the  conversion  from  user-units  to 
screen-units,  can  be  done  by  the  com- 
puter. The  subroutines  given  here  in 
listing  1  have  been  written  to  provide 
a  common  set  of  routines  that  can  be 
used  to  generate  different  kinds  of 
graphs  on  a  Compucolor  II  computer 
with  a  minimum  of  effort. 

Design  Considerations 

Ergonomic  texts  (ie:  those  that 
analyze  human  engineering  factors) 
suggest  that  scales  are  most  conve- 
nient for  the  user  if  they  are  subdivid- 
ed in  steps  that  are  powers  of  ten — 1, 
10,  100,  0.1,  0.001,  etc.  Double-  and 
half -size  steps  (2  and  0.5)  are  also  ac- 
ceptable for  intermediate  ranges, 
although  other  scale  intervals  (such  as 
0.75,  1.5,  3,  4)  should  be  avoided. 
Based     on     this,     I    have    written 

126       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Alan  W  Grogono 

Associate  Professor 

Department  of  Anesthesiology 

Upstate  Medical  Center 

State  University  of  New  York 

750  E  Adams  St 

Syracuse  NY  13210 


Writing  the  program  that 
creates  the  screen  image 
can  be  tedious  and  time- 
consuming. 


subroutines  to  select  a  suitable  step 
size  from  the  series:  0.1,  0.2,  0.5, 1,  2, 
5,  10,  20,  50.... 

The  ideal  number  of  steps  depends 
upon  the  application.  On  graph 
paper,  where  fine  measurements  may 
be  made,  a  large  number  of  smaller 
steps  is  useful.  On  a  video  monitor  or 
in  a  color  slide,  however,  a  smaller 
number  of  large  steps  is  preferable 
because  it  is  less  confusing;  around 
four  to  eight  steps  seem  to  be  ap- 
propriate. The  scale  should  start  and 
end  at  a  multiple  of  the  step  size. 

A  program  that  satisfies  these 
criteria  should  be  easy  to  write;  some 
readers  might  want  to  stop  at  this 
point  and  write  their  own.  Unfor- 
tunately, there  are  several  pitfalls  for 
the  unwary.  At  several  stages  of  the 
calculation  and  graph  preparation,  it 
is  necessary  to  avoid  calculation  er- 
rors (for  example,  producing  2.99999 
or  3.00001  instead  of  3).  Similarly, 
scale  zero  might  be  calculated  as 
1.000E-06,  which  looks  odd  if  printed 
on  a  graph  scale. 

The  first  step  of  the  scaling  process 
is  to  calculate  the  range  of  the  data, 
R,  and  make  an  initial  guess  for  the 
value  of  the  step  size,  JUMP.  This 
value  can  be  obtained  from  table  1,  or 
it  can  be  calculated  from  the  follow- 


ing equation: 

JUMP  =  4  *  10t(INT(0.434295 
*LOG(R/1.21))) 


(This  is  essentially  line  10315  of  the 
BASIC  program  in  listing  1;  the  con- 
stant 0.434295  is  used  to  obtain  the 
base-10  logarithm  from  the  Com- 
pucolor BASIC  LOG  function,  which 
returns  the  natural  or  base-e 
logarithm.) 

Once  the  initial  value  of  JUMP  has 
been  calculated,  it  is  repeatedly  divid- 
ed by  2  until  the  resulting  value  for 
JUMP  is  less  than  or  equal  to  one- 
fourth  the  value  of  the  range  R;  this 
assures  that  the  graph  will  have  at 
least  four  steps  in  the  range.  The  con- 
stant 1.21  is  chosen  to  give  the  rela- 
tionship between  R  and  JUMP  shown 
in  table  1. 

Implementation  Notes 

The  program  has  been  written, 
tested,  and  employed  to  illustrate  this 
article  on  a  Compucolor  II.  The 
BASIC  interpreter  recognizes  two- 
letter  variable  names  but  tolerates 
longer  names  (ie:  AXIS,  AXES  and 
AX  are  all  equivalent).  Names  were 
chosen  to  avoid  BASIC  reserved 
words  such  as  INT,  OR,  ON,  STEP. 
Thus  the  variable  COLOR  has  been 
spelled  COLOUR,  and  JUMP  has 
been  used  in  place  of  STEP.  For 
graphics  work  this  version  of  the 
language  employs  the  word  PLOT 
followed  by  one  or  more  arguments. 
Table  2  lists  the  more  important  plot- 
ting codes. 

Text  continued  on  page  138 


BRAIN 


Once  in  a  great  while  someone  comes  along 
with  a  simple  improvement  for  an  already  great 
product.  Take  our  SuperBrain,  for  example.  Really  a 
simple  concept.  A  high-powered,  low  cost  micro- 
computer packaged  in  an  attractive  desk  top 
cabinet.  So  how  do  you  improve  on  that? 

WE  DID  IT... 

It  wasn't  enough  that  our  SuperBrain  had 
such  standard  features  as  twin  double  density 
51/4"  drives  with  over  300,000  bytes  of  disk 
storage.  A  full  32K  of  dynamic  RAM  -  expandable 
to  64K  in  seconds.  A  CP/M*  Disk  Operating 
System  which  assures  compatibility  to  literally 
hundreds  of  application  packages  presently  availa- 
ble. A  crisp,  12"  non-glare  screen  with  a  full  24 
line  by  80  column  display.  A  full  ASCII  keyboard 
with  a  separate  keypad  and  individual  cursor 
control  keys.  Twin  RS232C  serial  ports  for  fast 
and  easy  connection  to  a  modem  and/or  a  printer. 
And,  dual  Z80  processors  which  operate  at  4  MHZ 
to  insure  lightning-fast  program  execution.  No,  it 
wasn't  enough.  So  we  made  it  better. 

ANNOUNCING  SUPERBRAIN  QD... 

Our  new  00  model  has  all  of  the  features  of 
our  phenomenally  popular  SuperBrain  with  the 
addition  of  double-sided  disk  drives  and  an  extra 
32K  of  dynamic  RAM.  So,  for  only  a  modest  in- 
crease in  price,  you  can  order  your  next  SuperBrain 
with  more  than  twice  the  disk  and  memory  storage 
capability.  But,  best  of  all,  the  new  QD  model  has 
the  same  tough,  rugged  construction  and 
exceptional  quality  that  made  our  SuperBrain 
such  a  success. 


HOW  DID  WE  DO  IT? 

The  secret  of  SuperBrain  QD's  incredible  disk 
storage  lies  within  our  new  double-density  double- 
sided  disk  drives.  A  total  of  nearly  720,000  bytes 
of  data  are  formatted  on  two  specially  designed 
5Ya"  drives.  And  that's  more  than  enough  to  get 
you  started  with  most  serious  small  business 
applications.  And  SuperBrain  QD's  standard  64K  of 
dynamic  RAM  will  handle  even  the  most  complicat- 
ed programming  tasks. 

Of  course,  if  you're  into  megabytes  instead  of 
kilobytes,  you  may  think  neither  SuperBrain  is  right 
for  you.  Not  so!  Intertec  offers  20-96  megabytes  of 
hard-disk  storage  which  connects  in  seconds  to 
either  the  SuperBrain  or  SuperBrain  QD.  So,  your 
original  investment  is  always  protected.  As  you 
grow.  No  matter  how  much  your  needs  expand. 


BUT  IS  IT  RELIABLE? 

Our  best  salesmen  are  our  present  users.  Not 
only  have  SuperBrain  users  been  impressed  with 
the  inherent  reliability  of  the  system,  they  tell  us 
that  no  other  microcomputer  system  available 
today  offers  such  a  unique  modular  design  con- 
cept. Just  about  the  only  tool  required  to  easily 


maintain  the  system  is  a  common  screwdriver.  And 
Intertec's  total  commitment  to  product  service  and 
customer  support,  with  service  outlets  in  most 
major  cities,  insures  your  original  investment  will 
be  a  valuable  one  for  many  years  to  come. 

THE  DECISION  IS  YOURS. 

Whether  your  next  SuperBrain  is  a  regular 
model  or  our  OD  version,  you  will  have  the 
satisfaction  of  knowing  you  purchased  what  is 
becoming  one  of  the  world's  most  popular  micro- 
computer systems.  And  regardless  of  which  model 
you  choose,  you'll  probably  never  outgrow  it  be- 
cause you  can  keep  expanding  it. 

So,  call  or  write  us  today  for  more  infor- 
mation. Intertec  systems  are  distributed  worldwide 
and  may  be  available  in  your  area  now. 

Circle  80  on  inquiry  card. 


3 


NTE3TEC 
["DATA 
=  SYSTEMS. 


2300  Broad  River  Rd.,  Columbia,  SC  29210 
(803)  798-9100  TWX:  810-666-2115 


'  Registered  uaflemam  ot  Digital  Research  !nc 


By  Netronics 

ASCII/BAUDOT, 
STAND  ALONE 


Computer  3|&» 


Terminal 


The  Netronics  ASCII/BAUDOT  Computer  Terminal  Kit  is  a 
microprocessor-controlled,  stand  alone  keyboard/ terminal 
requring  no  computer  memory  or  software.  It  allows  the  use  of 
either  a  64,  or  32  character  by  16  line  professional  display  for- 
mat with  selectable  baud  rate,  RS232-C  or  20  ma.  output,  full 
cursor  control  and  75  ohm  composite  video  output. 

The  keyboard  follows  the  standard  typewriter  configuration 
and  generates  the  entire  128  character  ASCII  upper/lower  case 
stt  with  96  printable  characters.  Features  include  onboard 
ngulstors,  selectable  parity,  shift  lock  key,  alpha  lock  jumper, 
a  drive  capability  of  one  TTY  load,  and  the  ability  to  mate 
directly  with  almost  any  computer,  including  the  new  Ex- 
plorer/85 and  ELF  products  by  Netronics. 

The  Computer  Terminal  requires  no  I/O  mapping  and 
includes  Ik  of  memory,  character  generator,  2  key  rollover, 
processor  controlled  cursor  control,  parallel  ASCII/BAUDOT 
to  serial  conversion  and  serial  to  video  processing — fully 
crystal  controlled  for  superb  accuracy.  PC  boards  are  the 
highest  quality  glass  epoxy  for  the  ultimate  in  reliability  and 
long  life. 

VIDEO  DISPLAY  SPECIFICATIONS 

The  heart  of  the  Netronics  Computer  Terminal  is  the  micro- 
processor-controlled Netronics  Video  Display  Board  (VID) 
which  allows  the  terminal  to  utilize  either  a  parallel  ASCII  or 
BAUDOT  signal  source.  The  VID  converts  the  parallel  data  to 
serial  data  which  is  then  formatted  to  either  RS232-C  or  20  ma. 
current  loop  output,  which  can  be  connected  to  the  serial  I/O 
on  your  computer  or  other  interface,  i.e..  Modem. 

When  connected  to  a  computer,  the  computer  must  echo  the 
character  received.  This  data  is  received  by  the  VID  which 
processes  the  information,  converting  to  data  to  video  suitable 
to  be  displayed  on  a  TV  se't  "(using  an  RF  modulator)  or  on  a 
video  monitor.  The  VID  generates  the  cursor,  horizontal  and 
vertical  sync  pulses  and  performs  the  housekeeping  relative  to 
which  character  and  where  it  is  to  be  displayed  on  the  screen. 
Video  Output:  1.5  P/P  into  75  ohm  (EIA  RS-I 70)  •  Baud  Rale: 
110  and  300  ASCII  •  Outputs:  RS232-Cor20  ma.  current  loop 
•  ASCII  Character  Set:  128  printable  characters— 


!"tr<4/()**,-./0123456789:;<=>? 
WBC0EFWI3KLrl«P«STUUWXVZC\r. 

vabcdef9hutdBn<w$tuwx¥z{!HI 


BAUDOT  Character  Set:  A  BCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQ 
RSTU  V  WX  YZ-?:*3$#().,9014!57;2/68* 
Cursor  Modes:  Home,  Backspace,  Horizontal  Tab,  Line  Feed, 
Vertical  Tab,  Carriage  Return.  Two  special  cursor  sequences 
are  provided  for  absolute  and  relative  X-  Y  cursor  addressing  • 
Cursor  Control:  Erase,  End  of  Line,  Erase  of  Screen,  Form 
Feed,  Delete  •  Monitor  Operation:  50  or  60Hz  (jumper 
selectable. 

Continental  U.S.A.  Credit  Card  Buyers  Outside  Connecticut 

CALL  TOLL  FREE  800-243-7428 

To  Order  From  Connecticut  Or  For  Technical  mm,  _ 
r  Assistance,  Etc.  Call  (203)  354-9375 


Netronics  R&D  Ltd.,  Dept.  B11 

333  Litchfield  Road,  New  Milford.  CT  06776 

Please  send  the  items  checked  below — 

D  Netronics  Sland  Alone  ASCII  Keyboard/Computer 
Terminal  Kit,  $149.95  plus  $3.00  postage  &  handling. 

D  Deluxe  Steel  Cabinet  for  Netronics  Keyboard/Termi- 
nal In  Blue/Black  Finish,  $19.95  plus  $2.50  postage 
and  handling. 

□  Video  Display  Board  Kit  alone  (less  keyboard),  $89.95 
plus  $3  postage  &  handling. 

D  12"  Video  Monitor  (10  MHz  bandwidth)  fully  assem- 
bled and  tested,  $139.95  plus  $5  postage  and  handling. 

D  RF  Modulator  Kit  (to  use  your  TV  set  for  a  monitor), 
$8.95  postpaid. 

D  5  amp  Power  Supply  Kit  In  Deluxe  Steel  Cabinet 
( ±  8VDC  @  5  amps,  plus  6-8  VAC),  $39.95  plus  $2 
postage  &  handling. 

Total  Enclosed  (Conn.  res.  add  sales  tax)  $ 

By- 

□  Personal  Check          Q  Cashiers  Check/Money  Order 
D  Visa  D  Master  Charge  (Bank* ) 

Acct.  #    

Signature 

Print 

Name 


_Exp.  Date . 


Address  . 
City 


.  Zip 


I 

Lv  na  mam    D  Send  Me  More  Information     mm,  a^  J 

128       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publicationa  Inc 


7000  ERASE/REVIEW   IMAGES 
9000  COMPLETE  GRAPH  OUTLINE 

16000  DATA  ENTRY 

10100  EQUATION  PLOTTING 

10200  FIND  LITTLE  AND  BIG 

10300  CALCULATE  DATA  FOR  BORDERS 

10500  DRAW  BORDERS 

10700  CONVERT  USER  UNITS  TO  GRAPH 

10800  GRAPH  UNITS  TO  TEXT  POSITION 

11000  PLOT  POINTS 

11100  PLOT  VECTORS 

11200  PLOT  V-BARS 

11300  PLOT  X-BARS 

11500  SAVE  ON  DISK 

11800  SELECT  COLORS 

11900  PAUSE 


3*  X 


Listing  1:  Collection  of  plotting  subroutines  and  driver  program  for  the  Compucolor  II. 
See  text  and  listing  remarks  for  further  description  of  the  subroutines. 

5  REM  KV  5  REM  GRAPHS.     CO     A.  W.  GR0G0N0.       AUG.     1979 

6  REM  SUBROUTINES  VI 
40  RESTORE    : CLEAR  200: DIM   I$<12) 

50  DATA  1,2,  6,  4:  FOR  1=  1T0  4:  READ  COLOUR  CD  :NEXT  I 
60  REM  WRITE:   60  DIMCARRAVC25,  D)   TO  USE  EQUATION  SUB 
90  PLOT  29,  27,  24, 15, 14,  2,  255,  6, 1, 12,  3, 16,  3 :  REM  CLEAR  PAGE 

100  REM 

101  REM 

110  REM  SUBROUTINES 
120  REM 
130  REM 
140  REM 
150  REM 
160  REM 
170  REM 
180  REM 
190  REM 
200  REM 
210  REM 
220  REM 
230  REM 
235  REM 
240  REM 
250  REM 
260  REM 
270  END 

490  REM  WRITE  EQUATION  AT  500,    EG:    500  V=  X"2 
510  RETURN 

6900  REM 

6901  REM 

6902  REM       ERASE/REVIEW   IMAGES 

6903  REM 

7000  PLOT  2,  255,  27,24,6, 11, 14,12,  3, 11,  7:  REM  IMAGE  ERASE/REVIEW 
7005  FOR   1=  1T0  12:I$a>=  CHR$   C48+   I-  7*   <I>  9)>:NEXT   I 

7010  PRINT   "ERASE/REVIEW       IMAGE  S":PRINT 

7020  PRINT  ,, "1.      REVIEW  IMAGES.  ": PRINT 

7030  PRINT  ,,  .INPUT   "2.      ERASE   IMAGES.      ENTER  NUMBER:    ";I 

7040  IF   1=  2THEN  7100 

7050   1$=   "REVIEWED" :G0SUB  7200 

7060  FOR  1=  L0WT0  HIGH: PLOT  3,  64,  29,  27,  4 : REM  LOSE  CURSOR 

7070  PRINT  "LOAD  SCREEN.  D IS;  "+  I*(I):PL0T  27,  27: REM  IMAGE 

7880  INPUT  "";I*:NEXT  I: RETURN 

7100   I*=   "ERASED"  :G0SUB  7200 

7110  PLOT  27,  4: FOR   1=  HIGHT0  L0WSTEP  -  1 

7120  PRINT   "DEL  SCREEN.  D IS;  "+   I*<I):NEXT  I 

7130  PLOT  27,  27: PRINT   "IGNORE  FCS  ERROR  -  EFNF"; 

7140  PRINT   "   DURING  RENAMING" : PLOT  17,10,27,4 

7150  J=  HIGH-  L0W+  1.F0R   1=  L0WT0  12-  J: REM  CLOSE  GAP 

7160  PRINT   "REN  SCREEN.  D IS;  "+  I$<I+  J)+  "TO  SCREEN.  D IS;  "+  I$(I) 

7180  NEXT   I: PLOT  27,  27: RETURN 

7200  PLOT  6,5*  I-  4,12,  27,  4: PRINT   "DIR":REM  DIRECTORY 

7210  PLOT  27,  27: PRINT  ,  "IMAGES  ARE  LISTED     SCREEN.  D IS;  N     "; 

7220  PRINT   "WHERE  N   IS  THE  NUMBER.  ".PRINT 

7230  PRINT  ,  "ENTER  #S  OF  FIRST  AND  LAST   IMAGES  TO  BE   ";  1$; ":" 

7235  PRINT   : PRINT  , ,  "FOR  A  ENTER  10,    FOR  B  ENTER  11  ETC.  " 

7240  PRINT    :PRINT  ,,  : INPUT   "FIRST   ";L0W:REM 

7250  PRINT    :PRINT  ,,: INPUT   "  LAST  ";HIGH:REM 

7260  PRINT    : PRINT  ,,  : INPUT  "PUSH  RETURN  TO  ADVANCE";  I*: RETURN 

Listing  1  continued  on  page  130 


Meet  IMP  2,  the  stylish  impact  printer 
with  three  way  paper  handling. 


Designed  for  desk  top  use,  this  sleek  unit  combines 
an  ultra-low  profile  with  a  unique  fan-cooled  printing 
system  that  can  knock  out  80,  96,  or  132  columns  of 
crisp  hardcopy  with  continuous  throughput  of  one  line 
per  second. 

Three  way  paper  handling.  IMP  2  features  three  way 
paper  handling  for  forms,  single  sheets  and  paper  rolls, 
with  tractors  adjustable  from  1.5  inch  to  9'/2  inches. 
Software  control  of  forms  length,  printer  select/deselect 
together  with  a  choice  of  three  standard  interfaces 
make  IMP  2  the  most  versatile  printer  available  in  its 
price  range. 

Interfaces  abound.  IMP  2  provides  parallel,  RS232C 
and  20mA  current  loop  as  standard  equipment.  But  if 
you  need  something  special,  we  can  supply  interfaces 


for  just  about  any  system  —  high  speed  serial,  Apple, 
Pet,  TRS-80,  IEEE  488. . .  you  name  it. 
Versatile  character  sets.  96  ASCII  character  set  is 
standard.  And  you  can  select  six  character  sizes,  even 
graphics,  under  software  control.  Options  include  full 
page  buffering  and  special  character  sets. 

Service  —  a  big  difference.  No  other  printer 
manufacturer  offers  Axiom's  combination  of  low  cost 
plus  nation-wide  service  and  distribution  —  in  the  USA 
and  18  overseas  countries. 

Psssst  —  the  price!!!  With  all  this  performance,  the  price 
is  low.  Just  $795  for  IMP  2  ($695  for  IMP  1,  without 
tractor  feed).  And  that's  the  single  unit  price. 

Better  phone,  write  or  mail  the  bingo  card  today! 


AXIOM 

AXIOM  CORPORATION 


Circle  81  on  Inquiry  card. 


5932  San  Fernando  Road,  Glendale,  CA  91202 
Tel:  (213)  245-9244  •  TWX:  910497-2283 


The  days  of  complicated,  unreliable, 
dynamic  MM  are  gone: 


the  ultrabyte  memory  board 


Cinn       QK       I  complete  kit        \ 

O    I  JJ  *J      **•*       \withl6K  memory  J 

Netronics  consistently  offers  innovative  products  at  un- 
beatable prices.  And  here  we  go  again  — with  JAWS, 
the  ultrabyte  64K  S100  memory  board. 
ONE  CHIP  DOES  IT  ALL 
JAWS  solves  the  problems  of  dynamic  RAM  with  a 
state-of-the-art  chip  from  Intel  that  does  it  all.  Intel's 
single  chip  64K  dynamic  RAM  controller  eliminates 
high-current  logic  parts  .  .  .  delay  lines  .  .  .  massive 
heat  sinks . . .  unreliable  trick  circuits. 
REMARKABLE  FEATURES  OF  JAWS 
Look  what  JAWS  offers  you:  Hidden  refresh  . . .  fast 
performance  ...  low  power  consumption  . . .  latched 
data  outputs  ...  200  NS  4116  RAMs  .  .  .  on-board 
crystal . . .  8K  bank  selectable  . . .  fully  socketed . . . 
solder  mask  on  both  sides  of  board  . . .  designed  for 
8080. 8085,  and  Z80  bus  signals .  .  .  works  in  Explorer, 
Sol,  Horizon,  as  well  as  all  other  well-designed  S100 
computers. 

I  GIVE  YOUR  COMPUTER  A  BIG  BYTE  OF  MEMORY  | 
power mm jaws— save up to m OH  1 
INTRODUCTORY  LIMITED-OFFER  SPECIAL  PRICES!  | 

UN0ECI0E0?  TRY  a  mm  m  JAWS  in  your  computer  oh  our 
IO-OAY  MOHEY-  BACK  OFFER  /SPECIFY  YOUR  COMPUTER) 


CONTINENTAL  US  A  CREDIT  CARD  BUYERS  OUTSIDE  CONNECTICUT  CALL 


^_^      From  CoMMCticut  Or  For  Aiiiiunc 

GNNETRONICSl 


CALL  TOLL  FREE  800-243-7428 

From  CoMweticul  Or  For  fontanel,  (203)  354-9375         Dept 

"JRESEARCH&     bh 
(DEVELOPMENT  LTD  \ 

333  Litchfield  Road,  New  Milford.CT  06776 
Please  send  the  items  checked  below 
G  JAWS  16K RAM  kit, No.  6416.  $199.95* 
"  JAWS  16K  RAM  fully  assembled,  tested,  burned  in. 

No.  6416W,  $229.95.* 
"  JAWS  32K  RAM  kit.  No.  6432,  (reg.  price  $329.95). 
SPECIAL  PRICE  $299.95.* 
!  JAWS  32K  RAM  fully  assembled,  tested,  burned  in. 
No.  6432W.  (reg.  price  $369.95).  SPECIAL  PRICE 
(339. 95.  * 

□  JAWS48K  RAM  kit.  No.  6448.  (reg.  price  $459.95). 
SPECIAL  PRICE  $399.95.* 

□  JAWS  48K  fully  assembled,  tested,  bumed  in.  No. 
6448W.  (reg.  price  $509.95),  SPECIAL  PRICE 
$449.95.* 

D  JAWS  64K  RAM  kit.  No.  6464,  (reg.  price  $589.95). 
SPECIAL  PRICE  $499.95.* 

□  JAWS  64K  RAM  fully  assembled,  tested,  burned  in. 
No.  6464W.  (reg.  price  $649.95).  SPECIAL  PRICE 
$559.95* 

□  Expansion  kit.  JAWS  16K  RAM  module,  to  expand 
any  of  the  above  in  16K  blocks  up  to  64K.  No.  16EXP. 
$129.95* 

"All  prices  plus  $2  postage  and  handling.  Connecticut 
residents  add  sales  tax. 
Total  enclosed:  $_ 
H  Personal  Check 

□  VISA 

Acct.  No.  

Signature 

Print  Name 

Address 


0  Money  order  or  Cashiers  Check 

□  MASTER  CHARGE  (Bank  No ) 

Exp.  Date  


City 

State  

□  Send  me  more  information 


Zip 


CALCULATES  LIMITS,  SCALE  VALUES  AND 
DRAWS  OUTLINE  WITH  TIC  MARKS,  SCALES, 
TITLE  AND  AXES  LABELS 


Listing  1  continued: 

3988  REM 
8989  REM 
8996  REM   PREPARE  COMPLETE  GRAPH  OUTLINE 

8991  REM 

8992  REM 

8993  REM 

8994  REM 

8995  REM 

9600  REM  GRAPH  OUTLINE 
9010  GOSUB  10200: REM  DATA  RANGE 
9020  GOSUB  10300: REM  AUTOSCALE 
9030  GOSUB  10500: RETURN  :REM  FRAME 

9980  REM 

9981  REM 

9982  REM   ENTER: 

9983  REM 

9984  REM 

9985  REM 

9986  REM 

9987  REM 

9988  REM 

9989  REM 

9990  REM 

9991  REM 

10000  PLOT  6, 1,12, 14,  3, 18, 13:  REM  DATA  ENTRV 

10010  PRINT   "DATA       ENTR  V" 

10015  PLOT  10, 9,  9: INPUT  "GRAPH  TITLE:  "• TITLE* 

10020  PLOT  10,  9,  9: INPUT  "NUMBER  OF  DATA  POINTS:  "; NUMBER 

10021  DIM  ARRAY (NUMBER+  2,  2> 

10024  PLOT  10, 9,  9: INPUT  "X-AXIS  UNITS,  INDEPENDANT:  ";LABEL*<0> 

10025  IF  CHOICE=  1THEN  LABEL* <1>=  "NUMBER" : GOTO  10030 

10026  PLOT  10,  9,  9: INPUT  "V-AXIS  UNITS,   DEPENDANT:  ";LflBELf«L> 
10028  LABEL*<2>=  LABEL* <1) 

10030  FOR  ITEM=  1T0  NUMBER: REM  ENTER  POINTS 

10040  IF  ITEM-  1<  >  10*  INT  (<ITEM-  IV  10) THEN  10O60:REM  PAGE 

10050  PLOT  12, 10, 10: PRINT  "POINT", ,  LABEL*<0> : REM 

10055  IF  CH0ICE<  >  1THEN  PLOT  28:PRINT  ,,,,""; LABEL*<1> 

10060  IF  ITEM-  1=  5*  INT  ((ITEM-  1)/  5) THEN  PLOT  10: REM  SPACE 

10070  PRINT  :  PRINT  ""-ITEM, ,:  INPUT  "".;  ARRAV<  ITEM,  0>  .REM 

10075  IF  CHOICE*  1THEN  NEXT  ITEM: RETURN 

PLOT  28, 18,  9,  3>  9,  9 : 1 NPU I  " " ;  ARRAY '.  I T  EH,  1 ) 
ARRflV ( I TEM,  2 > =   ARRAY  < I TEM,  1 ) : NEXT  I TEM : RETURN 


TITLE* 

NUMBER  OF  DATA  POINTS 

LABEL*<0>  FOR  X-AXIS 

LABEL* (1)  FOR  V-AXIS 

ARRAY (NUMBER,  2 >  OF  DATA  POINTS 

NOTE:  IF  CHOICE  =1  THEN  ONLV  1  AXIS  IS  ENTERED 


itiwytt 
10085 
10090  REM 
10691  REM 
18092  REM 

10093  REM 

10094  REM 

10095  REM 

10096  REM 

10097  REM 

10098  REM 
10100  PLOT  6, ! 
10110  PRINT  "I 
10120  NUMBER= 
10130  IF  V<  > 

10132  PLOT  : 

10133  PRINT 

10134  PRINT 

10135  PRINT 

10136  PRINT 


WRITE  EQUATION 

TESTS 
INPUT 
INPUT 


IS  THE  EQUATION  WRITTEN 
LITTLE CO) 
BIGC0) 


CALCULATES  ARRflV C2« 


FROM  EQUATION 


.  14, 12, 
Q  U  A 


3, 12, 7: REM  EQUATION  PLOTTING 
T  I  0  N   P  L  0  T  T  I  N  G" : PRINT  :REM 
1 : V=  .  9999 : GOSUB  490 
.  9999THEN  10140: REM  JUMP  IF  EQUATION  AT  LINE  500 
16, 11: PRINT  "TYPE  EQUATION  AT  LINE  500": PR I NT 
, "USING  THE  RULES  OF  BASIC.  ": PRINT  : PRINT 
.."EXAMPLE:   500  Y=X"2-3*X" :  PRINT  :REM 

,  "NOW  TYPE  500 ": PRINT 

,  "THEN  TYPE  RUN  AND  PRESS  RETURN" : END 

Listing  1  continued  on  page  132 


130       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  82  on  inquiry  card. 


EVERYG 
WINS 


Selecting  software  for 
your  Ohio  Scientific  computer 
is  a  chancy  task  at  best.  There 
are  few  trustworthy  vendors  with 
a  national  reputation.  There  are 
no  consistent  quality  standards 
and  the  documentation  is  often 
cryptic  and  inaccurate.  If  you 
are  lucky  enough  to  find  a  good 
package,  there's  no  guarantee  of 
ongoing  support.  A  wrong 
choice  results  in  months  of 
wasted  time,  effort,  and  money. 

With  the  Software  Federa- 
tion, you  no  longer  take  that  risk. 
The  Software  Federation  was 
formed  by  three  of  the  largest 
Ohio  Scientific  hardware  dis- 


S  oft  ware  Packages  

BUS-I  Original  of  popular  series,  sold  "as  is"     $99 
BUS-II  Unlicensed  version  of  BUS-I      SI  50 
BUS/DMS  Most  current  version  of  BUS  series, 

completely  reworked,  DMS  compatible    $850 
fig- FORTH  A  complete  Forth  Interest  Group  version  for 

0SI.  Not  a  kludge    SI  75 
MEMTEST/2  New  edition  of  popular  memory  test  $50 
WP-INT  Interface  between  WP-2  and  OSI-DMS  for 

form  letters    $80 
Amway  Distributors  Package   $995 
DATA  DIRECTOR  Complete  rewrite  of  OSI-DMS  Nucleus 

by  BBS,  command  oriented,  very  interactive   $995 
System  Exerciser  Self-prompting  test  routines  for  end 

user  troubleshooting    S60 
Med-Bill/Farogher  Single  doctor  client  billing    $995 
Manufacturing  Control  System  Hard  disk  based 

Standalone  inventory  with  job  costing  and 

bill-of-materials     $3500 
Fast  Floppy  Dumper  Floppy  disk  backup  for  hard  disk 

systems    $125 
WP6502  65U  word  processor  from  DQFLS    $  1 25 
USUS  Software  Exchange  Library  6  disk  set  of  UCS0 

Pascal  programs,  includes  USUS  membership  $80 
Mailer  Text  processor,  keyed  files  &  sort  capability,  good 

mass  mailer,  DMS  compatible    $190 
Payroll  Very  thorough  package  for  floppy  or  hard  disk, 

DMS  compatible    $495 
General  Ledger  Multi-division.'department  support, 

journal  based,  floppy  or  hard  disk.  DMS 

compatible    $495 


tributors  to  select  and  market 
quality  software  through  reput- 
able dealers  nationwide. 


The  Software  Federation 
soloes  the  dealer's  problems  by 
providing  low  cost  access  to  high 
quality  software  with  the  sort 
of  demonstration  packages, 
documentation,  and  support 
that  the  dealer  needs  to  success- 
fully sell  machines. 


Affiliated  Dealers 

TriComp  Inc.  Denver,  CO  80221 

Total  Data  Systems  Ft.  Collins,  CO  80525 

Data  Services  Computer  Carp.  Denver.  CO  80239 

Tra-Sta  Computer  Shoppe  Pueblo  CO  8 1005 

Business  Data  Systems,  Inc.  Boulder  CO  80301 

Tek-Alds  Industries  Inc.  Arlington  His   H.  60004 

KMH Galesburg,  IL61401 

Practical  Computer  Springfield,  IL  62703 

Datobus  Grayslake,  IL  60038 

MAP  Systems  Peoria  Hts. ,  IL  6 1 6 1 4 

Business  Computer  of  Joliet  Cresthill,  IL  60435 

Cyberrronics  Houston,  TX  77084 

CSB  Houston,  TX  77057 

Computer  Management  Systems  Mitchell  SD  57301 

Frisch  Computer  St.  Paul,  MN  55 1 1 3 

Farragher  &  Assoc.  Milwaukee,  Wl  532 1 3 

Specialized  Computer  Systems  Jackson.  Ml  49204 

Community  Computers  Arlington,  VA  22201 

Delta  Data  Distributors  Memphis,  TN  381 18 

International  Automation  New  Kensington,  PA  15608 

Whitlock  International,  Inc.  Detroit  Ml  48219 


The  Software  Federation 
soloes  the  independent  ven- 
dor's problems  by  providing  a 
proprietary  method  of  software 
protection,  aggressive  enforce- 
ment of  software  licenses,  a 
strong  dealer  base,  primary 
support,  and  national 
advertising. 


The  Software  Federation 
solves  the  user's  problems  by 
providing  quality  software, 
exceptional  documentation, 
after-the-sale  support,  and 
optional  software  maintenance 
services. 

Why  risk  making  the  wrong 
choice?  With  the  Software  Fed- 
eration, everyone  wins! 

See  the  dealer  in  your  area 
for  a  complete  turnkey  demon- 
stration. 


Software  Federation 

44  University  Drive 
Arlington  Hts.,  IL  60004 
Phone:  312/259-1355 


OUR  PRICES 

ARE 

TOO  LOW 

TO 

ADVERTISE! 

CHECK  THEM— CALL  TOLL  FREE 

800-243-7428 

LOOK  WHAT  WE  OFFER! 


»  HAZELTINE 

Terminals 

►  CENTRONICS 

Printers 

►  LEAR-SIEGLER 

Terminals/ Printers 

>  DATAPRODUCTS 

Printers 

>  ANADEX 

Printers 

BE  SMART- 
DON'T  BUY 
UNTIL  YOU 
CHECK  OUR 
PRICES! 


MASTERCHARGE 

VISA     COD 

PERSONAL  CHECK 
MONEY  ORDER 


RtNETRONICS 

RESEARCH  &  DEVELOPMENT,  LTD. 
333  Litchfield  Rd..  New  Milford,  CT  06776 


Listing  1  continued: 


10140 

10142 
10143 
10145 

10150 
10160 
10170 
10180 
10190 

10191 
10192 
10193 
10194 

10200 
10210 

10215 
10220 
10225 
10230 
10235 
10240 
18288 
10289 
10290 
10291 
10292 
10293 
10294 
10295 
10296 
10297 

10300 
10310 

10315 
10320 
10325 
10330 
10340 
10350 
10360 
10370 
10380 
10390 
10395 
10480 
10481 
10482 
10483 
10484 
10485 
10486 
10487 
10489 
10490 
10491 
10492 
10493 
10494 
10495 


IF  TITLE*<  > 
PRINT  : PR I NT 
PRINT  : PRINT 
PRINT  : PRINT 
PRINT  : PR I NT 
X=  LITTLE  03): 
ARRAY (ITEM,  0> 


""THEN  10145 

,,"ENTER  TITLE  <E.  G:  EQUATION) : 

,,  :  INPUT  "".;  TITLE* 

, ,  :  INPUT  "ENTER  LOWEST  X  VALUE: 

, , : INPUT  "     HIGHEST  X  VALUE: 

FOR  ITEM*  1T0  25:G0SUB  490: REM 

=  X: ARRAY (ITEM,  1>=  Y 


■;LITTLE(0) 
';BIG(0) 
FROM  EQUAN 


CALCULATE  FRAME  FROM  LITTLE(AXIS)  AND  BIG(AXIS) 


JUMP(AXIS) 
LOWCAXIS) 
HIGH(AXIS) 
SCALE(AXIS) 
GAPS (AX IS) 


IS  STEP  LENGTH 
IS  SCALE  LOW 
IS  SCALE  HIGH 
IS  SCALE  LENGTH 
IS  NUMBER  OF  STEPS 


X=  X+  (BIG(0)-  LITTLE(O))/  24: NEXT  ITEM: RETURN  :REM  INC  X 

REM 

REM 

REM   FIND  LITTLE(AXIS)  AND  BIG(AXIS) 

REM  FROM  ARRAY < NUMBER,  1)  IN  BOTH  AXES 

REM 

FOR  AXIS=  0TO  l.QQSUB  10210: NEXT  AXIS: RETURN  :REM  LO,  HI 

LITTLE(AXIS)=  ARRAYd,  AXIS):BIG(AXIS)=  ARRAYd,  AXIS) 

FOR  ITEM=  1T0  NUMBER 

IF  ARRAY(ITEM,AXIS)>  LITTLE (AX IS) THEN  10230 

LITTLE(AXIS)=  ARRAYdTEM,  AXIS) 

IF  ARRAY ( ITEM,  AXIS K  BIG(AXIS)THEN  10240 

BIG(AXIS)=  ARRAY < ITEM,  AXIS) 

NEXT  ITEM: RETURN 

REM 

REM 

REM 

REM 

REM 

REM 

REM 

REM 

REM 

REM 

FOR  AXIS=  0TO  1:G0SUB  1O310:NEXT  AXIS: RETURN  :REM  SCALE 

RANGE=  (BIG(AXIS)-  LITTLE(AXIS) V  1.21 

JUMP(AXIS)=  4*  10"  (INT  (.434295*  LOG  (RANGE))) 

DEF  FN  I(I)=  JUMP(AXIS)*  INT  (1/  JUMP(AXIS)+  .0001) 

FOR  1=  1T0  3:JUMP(AXIS)=  JUMP(AXIS)/  2 

HIGH(AXIS)=  -  FN  K-  BIG(AXIS)) 

LOW(AXIS)=  FN  KLITTLE(AXIS)) 

SCALE(AXIS)=  HIGH(AXIS)-  LOW(AXIS) 

GAPS(AXIS)=  INT  (1.0001*  SCALE(AXIS)/  JUMP(AXIS)) 

IF  GAPS(AXIS)<  4THEN  NEXT  I 

EVEN=  2*  JUMP(AXIS)*  INT  (-  SCALE(AXIS)/  JUMP(AXIS)/  2.  1) 

HIGH(AXIS)=  LOW(AXIS)-  EVEN 

SCALE(AXIS)=  HIGH(AXIS)-  LOW(AXIS) : RETURN 

REM 

REM 

REM   DRAW  BORDERS  WITH  SCALES  AND  TITLES 

REM 

REM  USER  MAY  ALTER 

REM  MINSCREEN(AXIS)  AND  MAXSCREEN(AXIS)  BUT 

REM  SELECT  VALUES  TO  MAKE 

REM  RANGE  A  MULTIPLE  OF  24.   ALSO: 

REM 

REM  IN  0  AXIS  VALUES  MUST  BE  MULTIPLES  OF  2 

REM  IN  1  AXIS  VALUES  MUST  BE  MULTIPLES  OF  4 

REM 

REM  RATI 0( AX IS)   IS  CALCULATED  FROM 

REM  RANGE  AND  SCALE (AXIS) 

REM 

Listing  1  continued  on  page  134 


132       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


The  best 
news  since 

CPM... 

customizable 

full  screen 

editing 


North  Star 
Heath  H8/H89 
Super  Brain 


Sorcerer 

TRS-80  Model  I 

TRS-80  Model  II 


Most  other  CP/M  Systems  with 
CRT  or  Memory  Mapped  Displays. 


See  us  at  Northeast  Computer  Show  Booth  418 


Changes  You  Make  On  the  Screen  Become 
The  Changes  to  the  File. 

Full  screen  editing  is  the  fastest  and  easiest  method  of 
editing  all  types  of  text  files.  Straight  forward  enough  for 
novices,  yet  also  the  choice  of  professionals.  VEDIT  is  a 
proven  full  screen  editor  with  unequalled  features.  You  will 
appreciate  that  you  can  easily  edit  1 0  times  faster  than  with  a 
command  editor.  Since  VEDIT  is  customizable,  it  adapts  to 
your  applications  and  preferences,  instead  of  requiring  you 
to  adapt  to  it. 

VEDIT  is  ideally  suited  to  program  development  and  it's 
special  features  make  it  the  most  valuable  development  tool 
a  programmer  can  have.  VEDIT  appeals  to  word  processing 
users  too.  Many  simple  text  editing  tasks,  such  as  mailing 
lists,  are  faster  and  easier  to  do  with  VEDIT  than  with  more 
complex  word  processors. 

Features  of  VEDIT: 

Full  screen  editor  with  status  line  and  cursor.  The  screen 
continuously  displays  the  region  of  the  file  being  edited. 
Changes  are  made  by  first  moving  the  cursor  to  the  text  you 
wish  to  change.  You  can  then  overtype,  insert  any  amount  of 
new  text  or  hit  a  function  key.  These  changes  are 
immediately  reflected  on  the  screen  and  become  the 
changes  to  the  file. 

Full  array  of  cursor  movements  with  single 
key  movement  to  begin  and  end  of  lines  and  to 
tab  positions. 

Function  keys  for  character  delete,  line  delete 
and  allowing  line  splitting  and  concatenating. 
Text  movement  is  very  easy  using  a  text 
register. 

Flexible  command  mode  allows  global 
search  and  substitute,  repetitive  editing 
operations. 

File  handling  allows  files  to  be  merged  on  input,  split  on 
output,  drive  selection  and  more.  Blocks  of  text  are  readily 
copied  from  one  file  to  another. 

Disk  buffering  can  automatically  perform  Read/Write  for 
files  larger  than  available  main  memory. 

Tabs  settable  to  any  positions.  Tab  key  inserts  tab 
character  or  spaces  to  next  tab  position. 

Extensive  60  page,  clearly  written  manual  with  sections  for 
both  the  beginning  and  experienced  user. 

You  Customize  the  Fastest  Editor  for 
Word  Processing,  C-Basic,  Fortran  and 
Assembler: 

Keyboard  layout  for  all  cursor  and  function  keys. 

Your  screen  size.  (Up  to  70  lines,  200  columns). 

Default  Tab  positions  and  various  parameters. 

Scrolling  methods. 

Cursor  type,  blinking,  reverse  video. 

Its  ideal  for  diverse  hardware,  keyboards  and  applications. 

For  OEMs  too. 

Ordering:  Specify  your  CRT  terminal  type,  video  board  or 
microcomputer,  the  8080/Z80  or  Z80  code  version,  and  disk 
format  required. 

Standard  Package:  Disk  and  manual $110 

Manual:  Price  refunded  with  software  purchase  $  15 
PUCEOH  V-100:  24  X  80  Video  display  board  . .  .$445 

VISA  and  MASTER  CHARGE  Welcome. 
Attractive  Dealer  Terms. 


Compuview  Products,  Inc. 

618  Louise  /  Arm  Arbor,  Michigan  48103        Call  Anytime  -  (313)  096-1299 


Circle  83  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980         133 


Now-Break  Through  The  64K 
Micro-Memory  Limit! 


SIXTEEN 

Bank  Selectable  16K  Static  RAM 


SAVE  $50.00 

LIMITED  TIME  OFFER 

Don't  buy  any  more  antique  RAMs  (RAM  without 
bank  select)  —  now  there's  Netronic's  new 
SWEET  SIXTEEN  board  featuring  a  universal  soft- 
ware bank  select  system.  SWEET  SIXTEEN  is 
capable  of  addressing  2,048  different  banks. 
With  SWEET  SIXTEEN  boards  you  can  add  mem- 
ory beyond  the  64K  limit,  or  expand  to  a  multi- 
terminal  system. 

LOOK  AT  THESE  FEATURES: 

•  300  NS,  low  power  21 14's. 

•  Software  Bank  Selector  —  Universal  decoder 
works  with  Cromenco.  Alpha  Micro.  Netronics,  most 
other  systems,  or  your  design.  Onboard  dip 
switches:  Bank  Select  Enable;  Reset  Enable;  Reset 
Disable,  Port  Address;  Port  Data. 

•  All  Inputs  And  Outputs  meet  the  proposed  IEEE 
standards  for  the  S-100  bus. 

•  4.0  MHz  Operation. 

•  Schmitt  Trigger  Buffer  on  all  signals  for  maximum 
noise  immunity. 

•  Addressable  On  16k  Boundaries,  0-64k.  dip 
switch  selectable. 

•  Phantom  Option,  dip  switch  selectable. 

•  PWR  MWRITE  Option,  dip  switch  selectable. 

•  LED  Indicator  to  display  status. 

•  Glass  Epoxy  PC  Board  with  gold-plated  contacts 
and  double-sided  solder  mask. 

•  Fully  Socketed. 

•  Four  Separate  Regulators  for  maximum  stability 

10-Day  Money-Back  Policy  For  Wired  &  Tested 
Unit:  Try  a  fully  wired  board  —  then  either  keep  it. 
return  it  for  kit,  or  simply  return  it  in  working  condi- 
tion. 


Continental  U.S.A.  Credit  Card  Buyers 


Outside  Connecticut: 


CALL  TOLL  FREE: 
800-243-7428 

From  Connecticut  Or  For  Assistance: 
(203|  354-9375 
Please  send  the  items  checked  below: 

□  SWEET  SIXTEEN  kit;  No.  S-16  (reg.  price 
S249.95)nowS199.95* 

D  SWEET  SIXTEEN,  fully  assembled,  tested, 
burned  in;  No.  S-16W  (reg.  price  $289  95) 
now  S239.95* 

*Plus  S2  postage  &  insurance.  Connecticut  residents 
add  sales  tax. 

Total  Enclosed:  S  

□  Personal  Check     □  Money  Order/Cashiers  Check 

D  VISA     D  Master  Charge  (Bank  No.    ) 

Acct.  No.   Exp.  Date 

Signature  

Print 

Name 

Address  

City 

State Zip  


I5.NETR0NICS 

RESEARCH  &  DEVELOPMENT,  LTD. 
333  Litchfield  Rd.,  New  Milford,  CT  06776 


PLACE  IS  CALCULATED  FOR 
TIC  MARKS  AND  SCALE  NUMBERS 


Listing  1  continued: 

10496  REM 

10497  REM 
19498  REM 

10560  PLOT  2..  255,  27,  24,  29, 15..  6,  COLOUR Q >,  12:  REM  DRAW  FRAME 
10505  MINSCREEN(0)=  18:MAXSCR£EM<0)=  114 
10510  MINSCREEN(1)=  16:MAXSCREEN(1)=  112 

10515  FOR  AXIS*  0TO  1:RANGE=  MAXSCREEN(AXIS)-  MINSCREEN(AXIS) 
10520  RATIO (AXIS)*  RANGE/  SCALE (AXIS): NEXT  AXIS 
16522  PLOT  3, (MAXSCREENC0H  MINSCREEfKO))/  4-  LEN  (TITLE*)/1  2 
10523  PLOT  29-  MAXSCREENd)/  4: PRINT  TITLE* 
10525  FOR  AXIS=  0TO  1 

10530  PLOT  6,  COLOUR (l),  2,  250-  4+  AXIS,  MINSCREEN(AXIS)-  1 
10540  PLOT  MINSCREENd-  AXIS)-  1 
10545  PLOT  MAXSCREEN(AXIS)+  2-  2+  CAXIS=  1) 
10550  PLOT  MAXSCREENd-  AXIS)*  2-  2+  (RXIS=  0) 
10555  PLOT  MRXSCREEN(AXIS)+  2-  2+  (AXIS=  1), 255 
10560  J=  JUMP (AXIS)/  2 

10565  FOR  PLACE*  LOW<flXIS)TO  HIQH<AXIS)+  JSTEP  JUMP(AXIS) 
10570  GOSUB  10700: REM  TIC  MARKS 

10580  GRAPH CI-  AXIS)=  MINSCREENd-  AXIS)-  2: REM  OUTSIDE  FRAME 
10590  PLOT  6, COLOUR CD : GOSUB  11010 
10600  PLOT  6,  COLOUR ( 2): REM  NUMBERS 

10620  IF  ABS  ( PLACE X  JUMP ( AX I S ) /  2THEN  PLACE*  0:REM  NO  EXPON 
10630  GRAPH (1-  AXIS)=  MINSCREENd-  AXIS)-  8+  4+  AXIS 
10640  GOSUB  10800 : PLACE*=  STR*  (PLACE) 
10650  PLOT  3,  TEXK6)-  LEN  (PLACE*)/  (2-  AXIS),  TEXT(l) 
10660  PRINT  PLACE*: NEXT  PLACE .NEXT  AXIS 
10662  PLOT  3,  MAXSCREEN(0)/  2-  4-  LEN  (LABEL* (8)) 
18664  PLOT  34-  MINSCREEN(l)/  4: PRINT  LABEL*(0) 
10666  PLOT  3,  MINSCREEN(0)/  2-  6,29-  MAXSCREEN(l)/  4 
10670  PRINT  LABELED: RETURN 

10688  REM 

10689  REM 

10690  REM   CALCULATE  SCREEN  GRAPH  POSITION 

10691  REM 

10692  REM  CONVERTS  PLACE  IN  USER  UNITS 

10693  REM  TO  GRAPH (AXIS)  FROM 

10694  REM  RATIO(AXIS),  LOW (AXIS),  MINSCREEN(AXIS) 

10695  REM 

10700  J=  RATIO(AXIS)*  (PLACE-  LOW(AXIS)) :REM  CONVERT  USER  UNITS 
10710  GRAPH(AXIS)=  MINSCREEN(AXIS)+  J+  .  0001: RETURN 

10790  REM 

10791  REM 

10792  REM   CALCULATE  SCREEN  TEXT  POSITION 

10793  REM 

10794  REM  CONVERTS  GRAPH(AXIS)  PLOTTING  UNITS 

10795  REM  TO  TEXT (AXIS)  FOR  CURSOR  POSITION 

10796  REM 

10800  TEXT(0)=  GRAPH (0)/  2: REM  GRAPH  UNITS  TO  CURSOR  POS 
10810  TEXT(1)=  INT  (31.75-  GRAPH(i)/  4): RETURN 

10988  REM 

10989  REM 

10990  REM   PLOT  POINTS  OR  LINES 

10991  REM 

10992  REM  ARRAV (NUMBER,!)   IS  PLOTTED  EITHER 

10993  REM  AS  POINTS  OR  AS  CONTINUOUS  LINE 

10994  REM 
11000  FLAG=  1: GOSUB  11150 : RETURN  :REM  POINTS 

11010  PLOT  2,  GRAPH (0),  GRAPH (1),  255: RETURN  :REM  POINT 

Listing  1  continued  on  page  138 


134       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  84  on  inquiry  card. 


The  Perfect  Fit 


The  Micromodem  II  data  communications  system 
and  the  Apple  II*  computer.  What  better  combination  to 
maximize  the  capabilities  of  your  personal  computer! 

This  popular  direct  connect  modem  can  transmit 
data  between  an  Apple  II  and  another  Apple  II,  a 
terminal,  another  microcomputer,  minicomputer  or 
even  a  large  time-sharing  computer  anywhere  in  North 
America.  The  Micromodem  II  has  unique  automatic 
dialing  and  answer  capabilities  which  further  increases 
the  communications  possibilities  between  the  Apple  II 
and  another  computer  or  terminal. 

You  can  send  and/or  receive  messages  or  data 
when  you  are  out  of  your  office,  home  or  out  of  town. 
Your  branch  business  locations  can  communicate  with 
each  other  regarding  inventory  and  other  matters  over 
the  phone.  Or  you  can  communicate  with  friends 
across  the  country.  And  you  can  access  information 
utilities  like  the  SOURCE  for  various  business  and 
personal  applications. 

The  Micromodem  II  consists  of  two  parts.  One  part 
includes  the  printed  circuit  board  which  holds  the 
Micromodem  II,  ROM  firmware  and  the  serial  interface. 
The  board  plugs  directly  into  the  Apple  II  providing  all 
the  functions  of  a  serial  interface  card  plus 
programmable  auto  dialing  and  auto  answer 
capabilities.  The  on-board  ROM  firmware  enables  the 
Micromodem  1 1  to  operate  in  any  of  three  modes  to 
perform  different  tasks-terminal  mode,  remote  console 
and  program  control  mode. 


The  other  part  of  the  Micromodem  II  datacomm 
system  is  a  Microcoupler  which  connects  the 
Micromodem  board  and  Apple  II  to  a  telephone  line. 
The  Microcoupler  gets  a  dial  tone,  dials  numbers, 
answers  the  phone  and  hangs  up  when  a  transmission 
is  over.  There  are  none  of  the  losses  or  distortions 
associated  with  acoustic  couplers.  The  Microcoupler  is 
compatible  with  any  North  American  standard 
telephone  lines  and  is  FCC-approved  for  direct 
connection  in  the  U.S.  It  works  with  standard  dial 
phone  service  or  Touch-tone  service. 

The  Micromodem  II  is  completely  compatible  with 
Bell  103-type  modems.  Full  and  half-duplex  operating 
modes  are  available  as  well  as  speed  selectable 
transmission  rates  of  1 1 0  and  300  bps. 

Why  not  increase  your  Apple  It's  capabilities  by 
outfitting  it  with  the  sophisticated  Micromodem  II  data 
communications  system?  The  Micromodem  II  is 
available  at  retail  computer  stores  nationwide.  For  the 
store  nearest  you,  call  or  write: 


©Hayes 


Hayes  Microcomputer  Products  Inc. 

5835  Peachtree  Corners  East,  Norcross,  Georgia  30092  (404)  449-8791 

Ty  Micromodem  II  is  a  trademark  of  Hayes  Microcomputer  Products,  Inc. 

*  Apple  II  is  a  registered  trademark  of  Apple  Computer  Inc. 

The  Micromodem  li  can  also  be  used  with  the  Bell  &  Howell  computer. 


136       BYTE  November  1980 


Bubble  Price  Break 

Intel  reduces  prototyping  prices  of  1 -megabit  bubble 

memories  by  40%  now.  And  guarantees  a  volume  price 

of  $595  for  complete  component  sets  by  August  1981. 


Fast-breaking  bubble  technol- 
ogy. You've  been  hearing  about 
it  for  years.  Now  Intel  announces 
the  kind  of  break  you've  been 
waiting  for:  a  price  break. 

On  August  11th,  Intel  lowered 
its  100-unit  price  for  the  BPK72 
Bubble  Memory  Kit  by  40%  to 
$995  —  less  than  100  millicents 
per  bit. 

By  August  1981,  the  price  of 
megabit  bubble  memories  ordered 
in  5,000-unit  lots  will  be  an 
unprecedented  $595.  That's  60 
millicents  per  bit.  Not  "projected." 
Not  "expected."  Guaranteed. 

One  year  later,  for  25,000-piece 
orders,  the  unit  price  will  be  $295 
— cutting  the  per-bit  price  in  half 
once  more.  Again,  we  guarantee  it. 

How  can  Intel  guarantee  such 
a  sharp  price  reduction?  Simple. 
Intel  was  the  first  to  bring  produc- 
tion 1-megabit  bubble  memories 
to  market.  We've  been  delivering 
them  for  over  a  year,  for  a  wide 
range  of  applications,  and  now 
we're  moving  prices  down  the 
manufacturing  learning  curve. 

Get  more  than  bubbles 

Intel's  bubble  memory  is  a 
complete  set  of  bubble  compo- 
nents for  microprocessor-based 
applications.  This  set  consists 
of  six  special  support  ICs:  a  con- 
troller, a  formatter/sense  amp., 
three  packages  for  coil  driving 
and  a  current  pulse  generator.  It 
interfaces  to  Intel®  and  other 
microprocessor  system  buses  via 
the  controller,  which  handles  up 
to  eight  bubble  memory  packages, 
and  provides  built-in  power  fail 
protection  and  error  correction. 

The  bubble  element  and  its 
small  set  of  associated  ICs  can  be 


treated  as  a  peripheral  subsystem. 
This  allows  designers  to  con- 
centrate on  higher  level  system 
objectives,  instead  of  spending 
time  learning  the  intimate  details 
of  bubble  device  interfacing.  Thus 
minimizing  expense  in  hardware 
and  software  development. 

Add  more  value 
to  your  product 

With  Intel's  solid-state  bubble 
memory,  all  that  moves  is  the 
information.  That  means  high 
reliability  and  low  maintenance 
for  your  products,  even  in  harsh 
or  unclean  environments — the 
kind  where  disks  and  tapes  won't 
go.  And  since  the  memory  is 
completely  nonvolatile,  your  data 


remains  secure  when  the  power 
goes  off.  No  battery  backup  or 
replacement  is  necessary. 

Furthermore,  Intel's  bubble 
memory  system  is  small,  light- 
weight and  silent.  By  packing 
over  1  million  bits  into  less  than 
100  square  centimeters  of  board 
space,  it  allows  you  to  reduce 
the  size,  weight  and  power  con- 


sumption of  your  products. 

As  the  natural  mass  storage  for 
LSI  microprocessor-based  systems, 
Intel's  megabit  bubble  memory 
makes  it  practical  to  design  more 
features  into  your  equipment. 
So  now  you  can  build  in  program- 
mability.  Portability.  Reduced 
service  and  repair  costs.  All  with 
ensured  data  integrity,  even  in 
hostile  environments.  Consider 
what  that  means  in  your 
applications. 

Start  designing  now 

Everything  you  need  to  start 
designing  your  next  generation 
product  is  included  in  our  Bubble 
Memory  Prototype  Kit  (BPK72), 
available  now  from  distributor 
stock.  It  contains  all  the  compo- 
nents necessary  for  a  1-megabit 
system,  plus  a  printed  circuit  board 
and  complete  documentation. 

To  find  out  how  bubble  mem- 
ories can  give  you  that  competitive 
edge  in  your  next  project — and 
to  receive  our  bubble  brochure, 
contact  your  local  Intel  sales 
office/distributor.  Better  yet,  have 
one  of  our  field  sales  engineers 
give  you  a  firm  quote  based  on 
exactly  what  you  need  for  your 
next  product.  Write  Intel  Cor- 
poration, 3065  Bowers  Avenue, 
Santa  Clara,  CA  95051.  Or  call 
(408)  987-8080. 


Intel  delivers 
solutions. 

Europe:  Intel  International,  Brussels,  Belgium. 
Japan:  Intel  Japan,  Tokyo.  United  States  and  Canadian 
distributors:  Alliance,  Almac/Stroum,  Arrow  Electronics, 
Avnet  Electronics,  Component  Specialties,  Hamilton/Avnet, 
Hamilton/Electro  Sales,  Harvey,  Industrial  Components, 
Pioneer,  L.A.  Varah,  Wyle  Distribution  Group,  Zentronics. 


Circle  85  on  Inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980         137 


IS  PLOTTED  EITHER 
HORIZONTAL  BARS 


Listing  1  continued: 

11020  PLOT  2,  242,  GRAPH i&h  GRAPH <1>j  255: RETURN  .REM  VECTOR 

11106  FLAG=  0:GOSUB  11150: RETURN  .REM  VECTORS 

11150  PLOT  6,  C0L0UR<3>:F0R  ITEM=  1TO  NUMBER: FOR  AXIS=  0TO  1 

11160  PLACE=  ARRAVC ITEM,  AXIS): GOSUB  1070O: NEXT  AXIS 

11170  ON  2+  >:iTEM=  10R  FLAG=  DGOSUB  11010,11020 

11180  NEXT  ITEM: RETURN 

11188  REM 

11189  REM 

11190  REM   PLOT  BAR  GRAPHS 
11131  REM 

11192  REM  ARRAV ( NUMBER,  1) 

11193  REM  AS  VERTICAL  OR  AS 

11194  REM 

11200  FLAG=  l:GOSUB  11310: RETURN  :REM  V- 
11300  FLAG=  0:GOSUB  11310: RETURN  :REM  X-BAR 
11310  COLOUR*  2: FOR  ITEM=  1TO  NUMBER 

11320  COLOUR=  COLOUR+  1+  2+  <COLOUR=  4): PLOT  6,  COLOUR (COLOUR) 

11330  FOR  AXIS=  OTO  1:PLACE=  ARRAVdTEM,  AXIS) 

1134S  GOSUB  10700: NEXT  AXIS 

11350  PLOT  2,250-  FLAG*  4,  MINSCREEN<FLAG) :REM  X  OR  V  BAR 

11360  FOR  1=  GRAPHC1-  FLAG)TO  GRAPhKl-  FLAG)+  1 

11370  PLOT  I, GRAPH (FLAG): NEXT  I: PLOT  255: NEXT  ITEM .RETURN 

11490  REM 

11491  REM 

11492  REM   SAVE  IMAGES  ON  DISK 

11493  REM 

11494  REM  IMAGES  SAVED  AS  SCREEN.  DIS 

11495  REM 

Listing  1  continued  on  page  140 


A  10  Megabyte  Winchester 
hard  disk  based, 
S100  Computer  for 

$7500??? 

YOU    BET!!! 


We'll  give  you  20  to  1 
(storage  that  is)! 


na 
nc 


NNC  Electronics      15631  Computer  Lane 
Huntington  Beach  CA  92649     (714)  893-4120 


Photo  1:  Variation  of  text  height  and 
color.  Both  text  height  and  color  can  be 
changed  under  program  control. 

Text  continued  from  page  126: 

Subscripts  for  array  variables  com- 
mence at  0.  In  consequence,  if 
NUMBER  =  25  and  AXES  =  1,  then 
the  BASIC  statement  DIM  ARRAY 
(NUMBER,  AXES)  will  define  an  ar- 
ray with  dimensions  26  and  2. 

Values  of  0  or  —1  are  assigned  to 
results  of  logical  operations:  0  for 
false  and  —1  for  true.  This  poperty  is 
used  in  line  11170  of  listing  1. 

It  is  also  possible  to  change  the 
height  and  color  of  displayed  text  (as 
shown  in  photo  1);  this  is  done  occa- 
sionally within  the  body  of  the  pro- 
gram in  listing  1. 

The  Subroutines 

Listing  1  contains  the  subroutines 
that  together  can  be  used  to  produce  a 
graph  on  the  color  video-display 
screen.  Subscripted  variables,  when 
used  with  a  subscript  of  0,  refer  to 
some  horizontal  component  of  the 
graph;  a  subscript  of  1  refers  to  some 
vertical  component  of  the  graph.  Cer- 
tain calculation  subroutines  (for  ex- 
ample, 10200  and  10300)  can  be  ac- 
cessed at  a  line  ending  in  "00"  to  per- 
form calculations  for  both  the  X  and 
Y  axes,  or  they  can  be  accessed  at  the 
corresponding  line  ending  in  "10"  to 
calculate  for  only  one  axis. 

Some  of  the  more  important 
subroutines  are  described  briefly  in 
the  paragraphs  that  follow: 

•  7000 — Review  or  erase  images;  this 
subroutine  enables  graphs  stored 
on  disk  to  be  reviewed  (displayed) 
or  erased  from  the  disk. 

•  9000 — Prepare  complete  graph 
outline;  this  subroutine  consists  of 
three  subroutines  that  examine  the 
data  and  draw  the  appropriate 
graph  frame  (see  also  subroutines 
10200,  10300,  and  10500). 

•  10000— Data  entry;  the  title  of  the 
graph,  the  axes'  labels,  and  data 


138       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  86  on  Inquiry  card. 


Circle  87  on  Inquiry  card. 


CENTRONICS  MODEL  737: 
Give  Your  Business  Ihe  Advantage 


eettti    •  •M  s 

:     dr. 


"n  ■&  c:  KTKOHi^ 


Centronics'  new  Model  737  means  you  get  more  than 
ever  from  a  printer.  Outstanding  print  quality.  Fast, 
quiet  operation.  Ready  to  handle  text  processing, 
word  processing,  or  electronic  mail  in  addition  to  reg- 
ular small  business  requirements.  And  it  meets  every 
business'  prime  requirement:  low  cost. 

Outstanding  Print  Quality 

Model  737  is  the  first  small  business  printer  to 
offer  correspondence  quality  printing.  Characters  with 
true  descenders  as  well  as  underlining.  Proportional 
spacing,  the  ability  to  justify  right  margins  and  serif 
typeface  makes  the  737  ideal  for  text  processing  appli- 
cations. Standard  business  data  processing  spacing 
makes  it  available  for  applications  ranging  from  let- 
ters to  aged  accounts  receivable  reports.  The  steel 
platen  assures  crisp,  clean  print  impression. 

Unexpected  Features 

Leave  it  to  Centronics  to  have  some  surprises  in  the 
new  Model  737.  You  get  the  ability  to  print  subscripts 
and  superscripts  (particularly  important  for  chemical 
or  mathematical  applications).  The  field  proven  700 
Series  printhead  technology  and  fewer  moving  parts 
mean  reliability  that  you  wouldn't  expect  in  a  com- 
pact, low-cost  printer. 

And  the  737  is  quiet.  An  optional  acoustic  cover 
makes  it  ideal  for  office  environments. 


Pick  Your  Paper 

Run  letterhead  paper  for  correspondence,  roll  paper 
for  general  information,  or  fan-fold  paper  for  standard 
data  processing  (payroll,  billing,  inventory,  etc.).  You 
can,  with  the  3-way  paper  handling  ability  of  the 
Model  737. 

The  Printer  of  the  Future . . .  Today 

Never  before  has  one  printer  offered  such  high 
quality,  reliability,  and  applications  flexibility  at  such 
low  cost.  (If  you  don't  need  the  correspondence  qual- 
ity of  the  737,  our  Model  730  delivers  100  c.p.s.  at 
even  greater  savings.) 

Why  Wait? 

The  new  Model  737  is  now  available  for  delivery 
For  more  information:  call  (603)  883-0111,  Centronics 
Data  Computer  Corporation,  Hudson,  New  Hampshire 
03051,  or  any  of  our  15  U.S.A.  or  9  international  sales 
offices. 

All  Centronics  products  are  supported  by  the  largest 
worldwide  service  network  of  any  independent  printer 
company.  Always  use  genuine  Centronics  ribbons 
and  accessories. 


nTROniC5  PRIRTER5 

...  the  advantage 


Listing  1  continued: 


11560 
11510 

11520 
11530 
11549 
11730 
11781 
11782 
11783 
11784 
11785 
11786 
11787 
11788 
11800 
11802 
11884 
11806 
11810 
11820 
11830 
11840 
11850 
11860 
11870 
11890 
11891 
11892 
11893 
11894 
11895 
11896 

11900 

11910 
11920 


PLOT  6,  C0L0UR<2>,3,  0,  31, 11.  3, 13,  31:  REM  SAVE  ON  DISK 

INPUT  "ENTER  S  TO  SAVE,  OR  PRESS  RETURN:  ".;  I*: PLOT  28,11 

IF  IK  >  "S"THEN  11540 

PLOT  27,  4:  PRINT  "SAVE  SCREEN.  [J IS  6000-6FFF"  :PLOT  27,27 

RETURN 

REM 

REM 

REM   SELECT  COLORS 

REM 

REM  COLOURED   FRAME 

REM  COLOURS)   SCALE 

REM  COLOUR <3>   GRAPH  1 

REM  COLOUR < 4 )   GRAPH  2 

REM 

PLOT  6,  4,  3,  0,  31, 11,  3, 16,  31 :  REM  COLOR  SELECTION 

INPUT  "ENTER  C  TO  CHANGE  COLOR:  ".;  K* 

PLOT  6,  C0L0UR<2>,3,  0,31, 11:  IF  K*<  >  "C'THEN  RETURN 

PLOT  6, 38, 12, 3,  23, 7, 14: PRINT  "COLOR  SELECTION" 

PRINT  : PRINT  ,,  :  INPUT  "TOUCH  COLOR  FOR  BACKGROUND:  ".;  If- 

1=  <ASC  <I*>-  16 )*  8: PLOT  6,  1, 12,  3, 16, 11: REM  BKD 

PLOT  6, 1/  8+  9+  2+  4*  (I>  40) 

DATA  "FRAME",  "SCALES",  "GRAPH1",  "GRAPH2" : RESTORE  11840 

FOR  J=  1TO  4: READ  I* : PLOT  3,16,9+  2*  J: PRINT  "FOR  ".;  I*.; 

INPUT  "".;  J*:COLOUR(J)=  1+  ASC  (J*)-  16 

PLOT  6,  COLOUR*:  J  >,  3,  32,  9+  2+  J:  PR  I  NT  I$:NEXT  J:  RETURN 

REM 

REM 

REM   PAUSE 

REM 

REM  "PRESS  RETURN  TO  CONTINUE" 

REM  BLINKS  BRIEFLV  AT  BOTTOM  OF  GRAPH 

REM 

PLOT  6,  COLOUR <1>,  31,  3, 18,  31 : REM  PAUSE 

PRINT  "PRESS  RETURN  TO  CONTINUE" : FOR  1=  1TO  1000: NEXT  I 

PLOT  15,  3,  O,  31, 11 :  INPUT  " ".;  I* : RETURN 


PLOT  2 

Enter  graph-plotting  mode 

PLOT  2,  X,  Y 

Point  at  X,Y 

PLOT  2,  242,  X,  Y 

Vector  to  X,Y 

PLOT  2,  250,  XO,  Y,  XM 

Horizontal  bar  at  Y  from  XO  to  XM 

PLOT  2,  246,  YO,  X,  YM 

Vertical  bar  at  X  from  YO  to  YM 

PLOT  3,  T,  L 

Cursor  to  tab  T  at  line  L 

PLOT  6,  C 

Defines  the  color  of  both  the  foreground  and  background 

PLOT  8 

Cursor  to  home 

PLOT  9 

Tab  8  spaces 

PLOT  10 

Line  feed  (move  cursor  down  one  line) 

PLOT  1 1 

Erase  line 

PLOT  12 

Erase  page 

PLOT  14 

Double-height  text 

PLOT  15 

Normal-height  text,  with  blink  mode  off 

PLOT  16  thru  PLOT  23 

Changes  color  of  foreground  or  background  (whichever  is 

active) 

PLOT  27,  4:  PRINT 

"[disk  commands]": 

PLOT  27,  27 

Execute  floppy-disk  command 

PLOT  27,  10 

Write  text  vertically 

PLOT  27,  24 

Write  text  horizontally 

PLOT  28 

Cursor  up 

PLOT  29 

Enable  background  color 

PLOT  31 

Blink  on 

PLOT  255 

Cancel  graph-plotting  mode 

Table  2:  Table  of  plot  codes 

in  Compucolor  BASIC.  Many  functions  associated  with 

the  color  video-display  screen  are  achieved  by  the  use  of  the  PLOT  command.  The 

table  of  PLOT  commands  here  includes  all  those  used  in  listings  1  and  2. 

Range  of  Values,  R, 
to  Be  Plotted 

0.121<R<1.21 
1.21    sR<12.1 
12.1    <R<121 
121     <R<1210 
1210  <R<12100 


Initial  Value 
for  JUMP 

0.4 

4.0 

40.0 

400.0 

4000.0 


Table  1:  Initial  value  for  step  size 
(JUMP)  given  the  range  (R)  of  the 
variable  to  be  plotted.  The  table  can  be 
continued  in  both  directions  by  either 
multiplying  or  dividing  all  the 
numbers  in  a  line  by  10.  Once  the  in- 
itial value  for  JUMP  is  found,  it  is 
repeatedly  divided  by  2  until  the  step 
size  used  subdivides  the  range  into  at 
least  four  intervals — that  is,  until 
]UMP<  (R/4). 


are  entered  in  this  subroutine.  Cer- 
tain applications  (eg:  histograms) 
require  only  one  set  of  data  to  be 
entered.  If  CHOICE  =  1,  then  the 
subroutine  fills  only  ARRAY  («,1), 
that  is,  the  data  entries  are  placed 
in  ARRAY  (0,0),  ARRAY  (1,0), 
ARRAY  (2,0),  and  so  on.  If 
CHOICE  is  not  equal  to  1,  then 
this  subroutine  expects  two  sets  of 
data  to  be  entered,  filling  both  AR- 
RAY (n,0)  and  ARRAY  (n,l).  The 
Y-axis  data  is  duplicated  in  a  third 
column,  ARRAY  («,2),  thus  allow- 
ing this  data  to  be  manipulated 
later  without  being  destroyed. 
10100 — Equation  plotting;  this 
subroutine  tests  to  see  that  no 
equation  exists,  then  invites  the 
user  to  write  an  equation  at  line 
500.  The  equation  takes  the  form 
Y  =  (some  arithmetic  expression 
using  X).  Once  the  equation  exists, 
the  subroutine  asks  for  a  title  and 
the  X-axis  limits.  The  program 
then  uses  the  equation  to  calculate 
twenty-five  equidistant  data  points 
to  fill  ARRAY  (n,l). 
10200— Find  big  and  little;  this 
subroutine  determines  the  largest 
and  smallest  values  for  the  data 
and  stores  them  in  arrays  BIG  (n) 
and  LITTLE  (n). 

10300 — Prepare  values  for  frame; 
the  step  size  (JUMP)  is  calculated 
in  accordance  with  the  constraints 
described  above.  This  value  is  used 
to  determine  the  HIGH  and  LOW 
values  for  the  scale.  GAPS  is  the 
number  of  JUMPS  in  the  length  of 
the  axis  (variable  SCALE). 
10500 — Draw  borders  with  scales 
and  titles;  this  subroutine  draws 


140       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  88  on  inquiry  card. 


ahoowdtid 


SPECIALS 

CALL  TOLL  FREE:  1-800-528-1418 


ARCHIVES 

BUSINESS  COMPUTER 


The  latest  in  all-in-one  computers  is  now  available 
from  MicroWorld!  The  new,  compact  Archives  Busi- 
ness Computer  is  CP/M-based,  S-1 00  compatible,  and 
includes  64K  RAM  as  standard  equipment.  The  Archives 
also  features  an  amazing  storage  capacity ...  up  to 
1  .5  megabytes  on  built-in,  dual  5 1/4"  drives!  The  det- 
achable microprocessor-controlled  keyboard  in- 
cludes a  righthand  numeric  pad,  lefrhand  function 
keycluster,  and  23  relegendable  function  keys.  A  full 
25-line  by  80-character  display  is  provided  by  the  12" 
green  phosphor  monitor.  Screen  attributes  include 
inverse  video,  blink  and  underline  in  any  of  8  intensi- 
ties. Options  for  the  Archives  Business  Computer 
include  a  direct-wire  modem,  hardware  floating  point 
chip,  and  an  extensive  selection  of  applications  soft- 
ware! 

CALL  FOR  PRICE! 


DIABLO  630  RO 

Letter-quality,  up  to  40  cps  printer 
offers  complete  interchangeabii- 
ity  between  metal  and  plastic  print 
wheels!  Universal  Interface,  baud 
rates  to  9600,  optional  forms  trac- 
tor. 

CALL  FOR  PRICE! 


LEXICON  LX-11 

Priced  lower  than  Novation,  lower 
than  Livermore!  New  Bell  103A- 
compatible,  RS232-compatible 
modem  has  special  battery- 
powered  optionl 

CALL  FOR  PRICE! 


MICROSHOPPER 

New  edition  of  the  best  selling 
computer  consumer  guide!  In- 
cludes more  than  100  photos, 
dozens  of  hardware  and  software 
product  reviews . . .  feature  articles, 
glossary,  and  morel 

$10.00  POSTAGE  PAID 


TELEVIDEO  920B 

Your  best  terminal  buy,  loaded 
with  featuresl  Full-function  key- 
board, 24  x  80  display,  blink,  reverse, 
self-test! 

CALL  FOR  PRICE! 


ATARI  800  SYSTEM 

MicroWorld  now  offers  complete 
systems  based  around  the  Atari 
800  Personal  Computer  .  .  .  Inter- 


face Module,  choice  of  printers, 
disk  drives,  program  recorder, 
modem,  extensive  software  library! 

CALL  FOR  SPECIAL  PRICE! 


FREE  FREIGHT 

MicroWorld  provides  the  most  attractive  mail-order  offer  in 
the  computer  industry.  The  nation's  largest  inventory,  plus 
our  own  automated  order  processing  allows  us  to  pass  on 
unrivaled  savings!  And  now . . .  FREE  FREIGHT  on  any  product 
featured  on  this  page!  We'll  pay  the  surface  freight  on  any 
computer  or  peripheral  product  in  this  ad.  Call  MicroWorld 
today,  the  source  you  can  trust! 

mcxowowd 

1425  W.  12th  Place,  Tempe,  AZ  85281 
Master  Card  and  Visa  orders  welcomed! 


Listing  2:  Demonstration  program  for  the  subroutines  of  listing  1.  This  short  program, 
when  added  to  the  program  in  listing  1,  allows  the  user  to  make  a  graph  of  a  collection 
of  points,  an  equation,  or  a  series  of  vertical  bars. 

5  REM  KV  5  REM     GRAPHS.  CO  R.  W.  GR0G0N0.   RUG.  1379 

6  REM     DEMONSTflTION  PROGRAM  FOR  USE  WITH  SUBROUTINES 
48  RESTORE  : CLEAR  266: DIM  t#<12) 

58  DATA  1,2,  6,  4:  FOR  1=  1T0  4:  READ  COLOUR  U>  :NEXT  I 

90  PLOT  29,  27,  24, 15, 14,  2,  255,  6, 1, 12,  3, 16,  3 :  REM  CLEAR  PAGE 

280  REM 

GRAPH   T  V  P  E:":PRINT 

XA'  SCATTER" 

PLOT  EQUATION" 

V-BAR  GRAPH" 
: INPUT  "ENTER  1-3:  ";K:PL0T  28,11 
3THEN  340 
366  IF  K<  >  2THEN  390 

370  RESTORE  : CLEAR  200: FOR  1=  1TO  4: READ  COLOUR (I) :NEXT  I 
380  K=  2: DIM  ARRAV<25, 1> :REM  DIMENSIONS  FOR  EQUATION 
390  ON  KGOSLIB  10600, 10100, 10000 :  REM  PREPARE  DATA  ARRAV 
400  GOSUB  9000: REM  FRAME 

410  ON  KGOSUB  11000, 11100, 11288 : REM  SCATTER,  LINE,  V-BARS 
428  GOSUB  11900: REM  PAUSE 
430  GOSUB  11500: REM  SAVE 
440  GOSUB  11800: REM  SELECT  COLORS 
458  IF  K*=  "C'THEN  400 
468  GOTO  5 


298  REM 

300  PRINT 

"SELECT 

310  PRINT 

:  PRINT  ,,  "1. 

320  PRINT 

: PRINT  ,,  "2. 

330  PRINT 

: PRINT  ,,  "3. 

340  PRINT 

: PRINT  ,,, :I 

350  IF  K<  10R  K> 


FREE  your  keyboard  —  interact  directly  with  the 
screen .  Why  waste  time  typing?  Use  a  3-G  Light  Pen. 


I  In  his  business,  Al  Zenker  ol  Zenker 
Dental  labs  in  Penndel.  Pennsylvania 
uses  our  pens  for  data  entry.  Harry 
Lee  of  Pittsfield,  Massachusetts  uses 
the  pen  to  select  telephone  numbers 
to  be  dialed  by  his  computer  Thorwald 
Esbensen  of  Micro-Ed,  Inc.  in  Min- 
neapolis, Minnesota  writes  education 
software  for  the  3-G  Light  Pen  Swiss 
Air  Dispatch  at  Kennedy  Airport  in  New 
York  uses  our  pens  to  speed  up  its  bus- 
iness operations.  Dr  Richard  Kerns 
of  East  Carolina  University  incopor- 
ates  our  pen  in  a  demonstration  with  a 
voice  synthesizer  to  teach  his  students 
how  to  use  computers  In  Holland.  Jo- 
nan  Smilde  uses  a  3-G  Light  Pen  to 
experiment  with  graphics. 

I  These  people  have  discovered  the  be- 
nefits of  using  a  3-G  Light  Pen 
Wouldn't  a  3-G  Light  Pen  make  your 
system  more  versatile  and  more  func- 
tional7 Ves.  of  course  it  would1 

I  Oon'tWait  —  orderyourpen  today  and 
receive 

1)  3-G  Light  Pen 

2)  Demonstration  cassettes  (with 
Professional  TRS-80.  PET  and 
Apple) 

3)  Sample  program  listing 

4)  Complete  documentation  and 
instructions 

5)  Other  Light  Pen  software  and 
games  available 

i  NO  ASSEMBLY  NECESSARY.  READY 
TO  PLUG  IN  AND  USE. 

i  Complete  documentation  so  you  can 
write  your  own  program  in  BASIC  No 
machine  language  coding  necessary 

l  All  3-G  Professional  models  plug  into 
machine  ports.  Economy  model  plugs 
into  cassette  and  batteries  are  in- 
cluded 


j—  — i  —  —  —  -  Mail  Coupon  or  Call  Today  for  Immediate  Delivery  -  —  ~  —  —  ^ 

9 


3-G  Company,  Inc.  Dept.  Bt 

Rt.  3,  Box  28A,  Gaston,  OR  97119 

(503)  662-4492 


Yes.  I  want  to  make  my  computer  more  versatile    Rush  me. 
Pens  (AddSl  50for  mailing  and  handling  —  S6  00  foreign  ) 


Enclosed  is:  Q  check  or  money  order 


]  Masler  Charge         Q  Visa 


Card  No 

Exp.  dale 

PITV    t 

7IP 

iG  LIGHT  PENS  FOR 


POINT  PEN  TO  CORRECT  ANSWER 


WHERE  ISMT.  ST.  HELENS' 


OREGON 

WASHINGTON 

MONTANA 


;-G  LIGHT  PEN  INTERACTING  DIRECTLY  WITH  THE  SCREEN 


the  borders  for  the  graph  with  its 
scales,  labels,  and  title.  The  length 
of  each  number  or  word  is  em- 
ployed to  ensure  appropriate  posi- 
tioning. The  value  of  RATIO,  cal- 
culated here,  is  used  in  the 
subroutine  at  line  10700. 

•  10700 — Convert  units  to  screen;  a 
value  on  one  of  the  axes  (in 
variable  PLACE)  is  converted  to  its 
corresponding  screen  position 
(stored  in  variable  GRAPH). 

•  10800-Converts  units  for  text  posi- 
tion; a  screen  position  variable, 
GRAPH,  is  converted  to  its  cor- 
responding cursor  position  and 
stored  in  variable  TEXT. 

•  11000  and  11100— Plot  points  or 
lines;  the  data  points  in  ARRAY 
are  plotted  as  separate  points 
(11000)  or  as  points  joined  by  lines 
(11100). 

•  11200  and  11300— Plot  Y-bars  or 
X-bars;  the  quantities  in  ARRAY 
are  plotted  as  vertical  (11200)  or  as 
horizontal  bars  (11300). 

•  11500 — Save  image  on  disk;  this 
subroutine  transfers  the  finished 
graph  to  disk  for  recall  later. 

•  11800 — Select  colors;  the  colors 
for  the  background,  frame,  scales, 
and  graphs  are  selected  with  this 
routine. 

•  11900 — Pause;  this  subroutine 
causes  the  words  "PRESS 
RETURN  TO  CONTINUE"  to 
flash  briefly  beneath  the  graph. 

A  Demonstration  Program 

The  program  in  listing  2  was  writ- 
ten to  demonstrate  the  color-graphics 
subroutines.  Graph  type  1  allows 
data  to  be  entered  and  displayed  as 
separate  points.  The  program  initially 
selects  the  colors  shown  in  photo  2a, 
but  the  user  can  select  his  own  colors, 
as  shown  in  photo  2b. 

Photos  3a  and  3b  illustrate  the  use 
of  the  equation-plotting  subroutine, 
graph  type  2.  Photo  3a  shows  the 
program  colors  for  the  first  range 
selected  (  —  2  to  +2);  photo  3b  shows 
a  different  set  of  colors  selected  by  the 
user  for  the  longer  range  (  —  4  to  +4). 
Photo  4a  shows  how  a  variable,  such 
as  income,  can  be  displayed  as  a 
Y-bar,  as  an  example  of  graph  type  3. 
Photos  4b  and  4c  show  the  same  data 
using  different  colors  selected  by  the 
user. 

The  brevity  of  listing  2  shows  that 
minimal  program  writing  is  required 
to  produce  these  graphs.  In  fact,  if 
only  one  type  of  graph  is  required 


142       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  89  on  inquiry  card. 


Ill  Ihh     ■mfc^  ■   M   I  ^^ 

GRAPHIC  TABLET 

A  VERSATILE  INPUT  DEVICE  FOR  SMALL  COMPUTERS 


•  81/2"  x  11"  TABLET  SURFACE 

•  PEN 

•  COMPATIBILITY  WITH  7"  x9"  DISPLAYS 

•  MINIMUM  INTERFACE  AND  SOFTWARE 
REQUIREMENTS 

KURTA  Graphic  Tablets  provide  the  small 
computer  user  with  a  method  of  enhancing 
his  or  her  present  setup  without  making  a 
large  expenditure.  For  example,  because  of 
the  recessed  tablet  surface,  an  8V2"  x  1 1"  pad 
of  paper  fits  snugly,  virtually  eliminating 


re-location  problems.  Hard  copy  is  easily  ob- 
tained using  the  pen  with  replaceable  ball 
point  cartridge.  The  KURTA  Graphic  Tablet  is 
directly  compatible  with  standard  7"  x  9" 
display  screens  and  since  the  tablets'  data 
output  directly  matches  the  computer  capa- 
bilities, the  interface  and  software  require- 
ments are  minimized.  KURTA  is  "the  new 
leader  in  graphic  message  input  and  delivery." 
For  more  information  about  the  KURTA 
Graphic  Tablet  see  your  nearest  computer 
dealer  or  contact  us  direct. 


WURTfi 


CORPORRTIOn 

20B  S.  RIVER  DR. 
TEMPE,  ARIZONA  B5aS1 
C602)  968-8709 


Circle  90  on  Inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


143 


(eg:  points  joined  by  lines),  then  the 
total  program  would  be: 


300  GOSUB  10000 

REM  DATA 

ENTRY 

310  GOSUB     9000 

REM  FRAME 

320  GOSUB  11100 

REM  PLOT 

LINES 

330  GOSUB  11900 

REM  PAUSE 

340  END 

Of  course,  this  assumes  the  presence 
of  the  subroutines  given  in  listing  1. 

2a 


In  such  a  program  and  in  the  dem- 
onstration program,  the  X-axis  and 
Y-axis  graph  scales  are  determined 
automatically  by  the  program  except 
where  the  user  selects  the  X-axis  limits 
for  the  equation. 

Summary 

The  subroutines  in  listing  1  were 
written  to  illustrate  the  principles 
used  in  determining  neat  graph  scales, 
and  emphasis  has  been  placed  on 
these    calculations.     The    frame    is 


Photo  2:  Examples  of  point-plotting  mode.  The  computer  automatically  chooses  the 
colors  of  photo  2a,  but  the  user  can  override  this  to  select  any  other  color  combination, 
as  in  photo  2b.  The  slight  "pincushion"  effect  can  be  eliminated  by  the  addition  of  a  cor- 
rective kit  supplied  by  Compucolor. 


Photo  3:  Examples  of  equation-plotting  mode.  The  range  of  both  the  X  and  Y  axes  can 
be  changed,  as  can  the  choice  of  colors.  Photo  3a  illustrates  the  standard  colors  as 
selected  by  the  computer;  photo  3b  shows  another  graph  with  colors  of  the  user's 
choice. 


drawn  just  outside  the  area  in  which 
points  will  be  graphed.  This  avoids 
the  problem  of  graphing  points  that 
lie  directly  on  the  frame;  it  also 
avoids  the  possibility  of  the  color  for 
a  nearby  graph  point  spilling  onto  the 
frame.  The  program  generates  an 
even  number  of  scale  increments  for 
each  axis;  this  ensures  uniform  spac- 
ing of  both  tick  marks  and  numbers. 
Colors  are  critical  when  the  screen  is 
being  photographed;  light  colors  on 
dark  backgrounds  show  up  best  (this 
is  discussed  in  detail  in  my  previous 
article  in  the  January  1980  BYTE). 

These  subroutines  can  be  used  in 
many  graphics  applications.  As  writ- 
ten, they  employ  two-letter  names  as 
well  as  the  variables  X,  Y,  I,  J,  K,  1$, 
J$,  and  K$.  This  allows  the  user  all 
the  remaining  single  letters.  If  the 
user's  program  defines  NUMBER 
(number  of  points)  and  fills  ARRAY 
with  the  appropriate  data,  then  the 
subroutines  in  listing  1  can  be  used  to 
generate  a  graph.  The  graph  will  be 
labeled  as  well  if  the  user  defines  the 
variables  TITLES,  LABEL$(0),  and 
LABEL$(1). 

The  photographs  used  to  illustrate 
this  article  have  been  created  using  a 
Compucolor  II  with  16  K  bytes  of 
user  memory  but  without  the  Pin- 
cushion Correction  Kit.  The  barrel 
distortion  on  the  top  and  bottom  can 
be  reduced  by  using  a  telephoto  lens, 
but  the  pincushion  effect  on  each  side 
will  then  be  worse  unless  the  correc- 
tion kit  is  installed. 

Next  month,  Part  2  of  this  article 
will  use  the  subroutines  given  here  to 
construct  several  other  kinds  of 
graphs:  a  different  kind  of  equation- 
plotting  routine,  a  histogram  with  the 
equivalent  Gaussian  (bell-shaped) 
curve  superimposed,  linear  and  other 
kinds  of  regression  plotting,  and  a 
monthly  analysis  graph  of  more  than 
one  variable.! 


Photo  4:  Examples  of  bar-graph-plotting  mode.  Here,  the  same  data  is  displayed  in  the  standard  colors  (photo  4a)  and  two  sets  of 
user-selected  colors  (photos  4b  and  4c).  Horizontal  bar  graphs  can  also  be  displayed. 

144       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Programming  Quickies 


Simple  Base  Conversions 
for  the  TRS-80 

James  M  Curran,  24  Greendale  Rd,  Cedar  Grove  NJ  07009 


I  have  noticed  that  decimal-to-hexadecimal  and 
decimal-to-octal  conversions  are  usually  accomplished 
by  means  of  subroutines,  most  of  which  require  three  to 
four  statements.  This  is  efficient  enough  for  users  of  a 
low-level  BASIC;  however,  computer  enthusiasts  with  a 
BASIC  interpreter  containing  the  DEF  FN  (define  func- 
tion) command  long  for  a  simple  one-statement  conver- 
sion. Here  are  such  conversion  statements.  For  those  of 
you  who  need  to  convert  hexadecimal  or  octal  to 
decimal,  these  conversions  are  also  included.  I  have  even 
thrown  in  a  decimal-to-binary  function. 

Listing  1:  Definitions  for  five  base-conversion  functions.  The 
first  statement  defines  the  function  for  converting  decimal  to 
binary  numbers.  The  second  and  third  definitions  give  the  func- 
tions for  converting  from  decimal  to  hexadecimal  and  from 
hexadecimal  to  decimal  numbers.  Notice  that  the  variable  HX$ 
must  be  initialized  for  both  of  these.  The  last  two  statements 
define  the  functions  for  converting  from  decimal  to-octal  and 
from  octal  to  decimal  numbers. 

l.DEF  FN  DB#(D)  =  (D  AND  1  )  +  ( D  AND  2)*5+(D  AND  4)*25+ 
(D  AND  8)*125+(D  AND  16  )*625+ 
(D  AND  32)*3125+(D  AND  64)*15625+ 
(D  AND  128)*78125 


2 .HX$="0123456789ABCDEF" 

DEF  FN  DH$(D)=MID$(HX$,(D  AND  -4096  )/4096+l- 
( D> 32767 )*16,1)+ 

MID$(HX$,(D  AND  3840  )/255+l,  1  )+ 
MIDS(HXS,(D  AND  240  )/16+l,  1  )+ 
MID$(EDC$,(D  AND  15)+1,1) 


3.HX$="0123456789ABCDEF" 

DEF  FN  H$D(H$)=(INSTR(HX$,MID$(H$,1,1))-1)*4096+ 
( INSTR( HX$ , MID5(  H$ , 2 , 1 ) )-l ) *256+ 
(  INSTR( HX$ , MID$(  HS , 3 , 1 ) )-l ) *16+ 
(  INSTR(  HX$ , MID$(  H$  ,  4, 1 )  )-l  ) 


4. DEF  FN  DO#(D)=(D  AND  7  )+( D  AND  56)*1.25+ 
(D  AND  448 )*1. 5625+ 
(D  AND  3584)*1. 953125+ 
(D  AND  28672 )*2. 44140625 


5. DEF  FN  0$D(0$)=VAL(MID$(0$,1,1))*3276+ 
VAL( MIDS( 0$ , 2 , 1 ) )*4096+ 
VAL( MID$( 0$ , 3 , 1 ) )*512+ 
VAL(  MID$(  0$ ,  4 , 1  )  )*64+ 
VAL(  MID$( 0$ , 5 , 1 ) )*8+ 
VAL(MID$(0$,6,1)) 


These  functions  can  also  be  used  as  subroutines  by 
those  without  the  DEF  FN  command.  An  AND-statement 
is  necessary,  because  it  performs  a  logical-AND  opera- 
tion which  is  used  in  all  three  routines  to  convert  decimal 
to  the  various  other  bases. 

The  first  function,  which  I  call  FNDB#,  returns  the 
binary  equivalent  of  the  argument  as  an  eight-digit  in- 
teger. 

The  hexadecimal  equivalent  of  the  argument  is  return- 
ed by  the  second  function,  FNDH$,  as  a  four-character 
string  with  leading  zeros.  Arguments  greater  than  32767 
(7FFF  hexadecimal)  must  be  signed;  ie:  reduced  by  65536. 
For  a  1-byte  conversion,  only  the  second  half  of  the  func- 
tion is  necessary. 

My  third  function,  called  FNH$D,  converts  the  argu- 
ment, which  must  be  a  four-character  string,  into  its 
decimal  equivalent.  In  this  function,  the  INSTR  com- 
mand is  employed;  if  your  BASIC  does  not  have  it,  it  is 
easily  replaced  with  a  BASIC  subroutine.  Its  function  is 
to  return  the  position  in  the  first  string  at  which  the  sec- 
ond string  begins.  FNH$D  can  also  be  made  into  a  1-byte 
routine  by  using  its  second  half.  Both  FNH$D  and 
FNDH$  require   HX$  to  be  initialized. 

The  final  two  functions  for  decimal-to-octal  conver- 
sions (FNDO#  and  FNO$D)  work  similarly  to  their  hexa- 
decimal counterparts.  ■ 


SAVE  AT  THE  APPLE  COMPUTER  SUPERMARKET... 

"Computers 'R'  us" 

UNBEATABLE  MAIL  ORDER  DISCOUNTS 
„.     A  SUBSIDIARY  OF  CONSUMER  COMPUTERS 


CHRISTMAS 

SUPER 

SALE 


APPLE  II  PLUS 

OR  APPLE  II  STANDARD 


1  6K      ONLY 

48K      1049 

DISK   II  DRIVE$aaf 

W  CONTROLLER  ■•Oil 

i        PASCAL   $/|**C 
L       SYSTEM   '425 


OFFER 
EXPIRES 
DEC.  31 
1980 


SIE  PAOI  391 
FOR  MORI  PRODUCTS  AMD 
ORDERING   INFORMATION 


ORDER  TOLL  FREE:  1-800-854-6654 

CALIFORNIA,  BACKORDER  OR  TECHNICAL  INFO:  (714)  698-8088 
CREDIT  CARD  USERS  PLEASE  SEE  ORDERING  INSTRUCTIONS  ON  PAGE  391 


Circle  91  on  inquiry  card. 


November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc       145 


The 

Brains  of  Men 

and  Machines 


by  Ernest  W.  Kent 

When  the  "Brains  of  Men  and 
Machines"  series  of  articles  originally 
appeared  in  BYTE  magazine,  the  re- 
sponse was  immediate  and  enthusiastic. 
Now  Ernest  W.  Kent  has  expanded  his 
ideas  about  the  brain  into  a  full-length 
book. 

As  researchers  begin  to  unravel  the 
mysteries  of  the  brain's  chemical,  elec- 
trical, and  synaptic  circuitry,  their  find- 
ings are  becoming  immediately  ap- 
plicable to  advances  in  robotic  behavior 
and  computer  design.  The  Brains  of 
Men  and  Machines  "dissects"  the 
brain  to  provide  new  insights  into  com- 
puter design  and  artificial  intelligence. 

It  is  one  of  the  rare  books  that  tran- 
scends disciplinary  boundaries.  In  it  the 
ever  increasing  relationship  between 
man  and  machine  is  freshly  examined  — 
a  relationship,  Professor  Kent  con- 
cludes, that  is  today  being  reexamined 
in  the  light  of  man's  own  neurological 
self-image. 

Hardcover  304  pages 


Hi™!  7° Ma,n  st 

BUllria  Peterborough,  NH  03458 


B11 


ISBN  #0-07-034123-0 
Price  $15.95 

Please  remit  in  U.S.  funds  or  draw  on  a  U.S.  Bank 


Please  send  □ 


.  copies  of 


The  Brains  of  Men  and  Machines 


Company 


Street 


City 


State/Province 


□  Check  enclosed  in  the  amount  of  S 

□  Bill  Visa  □  Bill  Master  Charge 

Card    No. 

Exp.      Date 


Add  75«  per  book  to  cover 
postage  and  handling. 

Available  in  October 


m 


Blobs  and  Newsletters 


A  Club  in  Augusta 

The  CSRA  Computer 
Club  is  a  group  of  computer 
hobbyists  and  professionals 
that  enjoy  working  and 
playing  with  computers. 
Dues  are  $6  per  year  and 
everyone  interested  in  com- 
puters is  invited  to  attend 
the  meetings  held  at  7:30 
PM  on  the  third  Thursday 
of  each  month  in  the  Stu- 
dent Center  of  the  Medical 
College  of  Georgia,  Laney 
Walker  and  15th  streets  in 
Augusta,  Georgia.  A  month- 
ly newsletter  is  also  publish- 
ed. Contact  the  club  at 
CSRA  Computer  Club,  POB 
284,  Augusta  GA  30903. 


TRS-80  Group  in 
Manchester 

The  Manchester  TRS-80 
Users  Group  meets  the  first 
Sunday  of  each  month  at 
Raytheon  Company,  Island 
Pond  Rd,  in  Manchester, 
New  Hampshire.  For  infor- 
mation, contact  Scott 
Mitchell,  346  S  Taylor  St, 
Manchester  NH  03103,  (603) 
624-0089. 


Classroom  Computer 
News 

Classroom  Computer 
News  is  a  bimonthly  news- 
letter written  for  teachers 
and  administrators  and 
covers  the  technical  and  the 
human  side  of  using  com- 
puters in  schools,  as  well  as 
developments  in  the  micro- 
computer industry.  Each 
issue  includes  application 
programs,  tutorials,  book 
reviews,  new  product 
reviews,  and  industry  news 
briefs.  Interviews  with  in- 
novators in  the  educational 
computing  field,  accounts  of 
teachers'  and  administrators' 
personal  experiences  with 
microcomputers,  overviews 
of  software,  and  analyses  of 
trends  within  the  industry 
are  covered.  Subscription 
rates  for  Classroom  Com- 
puter News  are  $9  per  year. 
Contact  Classroom  Comput- 

Circle  92  on  inquiry  card. 


er  News,  POB  299,  Cam- 
bridge MA  02138,  (617) 
661-6164. 


Tl  99/4  Users  Unite 

There  are  many  Texas  In- 
struments TI  99/4  users  in- 
terested in  swapping  infor- 
mation, programs,  and  other 


related  items.  If  you  are  in- 
terested in  starting  a  users 
group,  or  simply  estab- 
lishing contact  with  other 
users,  write  to  Larry 
Morrow,  8075  Spring  Gar- 
den Ct,  W  Chester  OH 
45069. 


News  and  Trading 
Newsletter 

The  Midwest  Buss  is  a 
newsletter  and  trading 
forum.  The  newsletter  in- 
cludes buy-and-sell  columns 


and  articles  on  hardware 
and  software.  Ads  are  $1 
per  line.  A  line  consists  of 
60  characters,  punctuation 
and  spaces  included.  All  ads 
should  be  printed  or  type- 
written. Include  phone  num- 
bers and  addresses  on  a 
separate  portion  of  the  card. 
The  deadline  for  submission 
of  ads  or  articles  is  the 
twenty-sixth  of  each  month. 
The  Midwest  Buss  is  mailed 
on  the  first  of  each  month. 
Subscriptions  are  $6  per 
year.  Contact  The  Midwest 
Buss,  441  E  Bernhard,  Hazel 
Park  MI  48030.  ■ 


$115,001 
QUANTITY 

A  handful  of  compact  switch! 
of$115! 


-    '  bly  low  price 


But  don't  be  mislead  by  price.  This  is  no  st  own  coveriess 

pretender  that  tries  Jo  pass  as  a  switcher.|I||. 

POWER-ONE'S  new  SD  Series  is  a  true  high  p'  switching 
power  supply  in  every  sense  of  the  word.  It  meenwr    •  deifi- 

cations while  employing  the  absolute  latest  state-o  .<er 

conversion  techniques.  Yet  it's  smaller,  lighter,  and  mor*  -Shan 

the  rest. 

All  at  a  cost  that  combines  affordability  with  the  finest  features  of 
switching  technology.  The  result  is  a  dramatic  new  dimension  in 
switching  power  supply  value. 

See  for  yourself.  For  fast  action,  write  or  phone  for  our  new  1980 
Catalog  with  complete  details  on  the  exciting  new  SD  Series. 
Models  Chart 


MODEL 

VOLTAGE 

CURRENT 

SD5-10 

5V 

10A 

SD12-4.2 

12V 

4.2A 

SD15-3.4 

15V 

3.4A 

SD24-2.1 

24V 

2.1A 

SD28-1.8 

28V 

1.8A 

mm 


if" 


o.c.  power supplies 


Power-One,  Inc.  •  Power  One  Drive  •    Camarillo,  CA  93010 
(805)  484-2806  •  (805)  987-3891  •  TWX  910-336-1297 


Three-Dimensional  Graphics 
for  the  Apple  II 


Many  articles  have  been  written 
regarding  three-dimensional  graphics 
on  home  computers.  Some  involve 
highly  complex  hardware  such  as 
spinning  mirrors,  while  others  rely 
upon  computation-intensive  software 
to  project  three-dimensional  objects 
on  a  two-dimensional  plane. 

Taking  an  innovative  step  back- 
wards and  rediscovering  an  old  tech- 
nique, I  have  been  able  to  create 
three-dimensional  pictures  using  my 
Apple  II  computer.  I  have  generated 
a  number  of  visually  stimulating  dis- 
plays in  this  manner  and  would  like 
to  share  with  you  the  methods  used, 
with  the  hope  that  you  too  will  dis- 
cover new  ways  to  use  your  com- 
puter. 

The  method  is  simple.  Just  take  a 
piece  of  cardboard,  and  with  a  pair 
of  scissors,  cut  out  a  pair  of  eyeglass 
frames.  Next,  put  a  red  filter  over  the 
left  eye  opening  in  the  frame  and  a 
green  filter  over  the  right  opening  (I 
did  say  it  was  an  old  idea!).  When 
viewing  the  screen  with  the  glasses 
on,  anything  colored  red  will  not  be 
visible  to  your  right  eye,  and  any- 
thing green  will  not  be  visible  to  your 
left  eye  (you  may  have  to  adjust  the 
tint  on  your  television  to  optimize 
this).  Anything  white  will  be  visible 
to  both  eyes. 

148       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Dan  Sokol 

John  Shepard 

211  Fall  Creek  Dr 

Felton  CA  95018 


The  image  that  falls  on  the  retina  of 
your  right  eye  will  be  the  green  image 
on  the  video  monitor,  but  it  will 
appear  to  be  white!  (It's  all  done  in 
your  brain.)  The  same  is  true  of  the 
red  image  in  relation  to  your  left  eye. 
(We  will  refer  to  the  red  image  in  our 
software  as  violet.  This  is  because  the 
Apple  HI-RES  graphics  cannot  gen- 
erate red.)  [However,  see  "More 
Colors  for  Your  Apple,"  by  Allen 
Watson  III,  June  1979  BYTE,  page 
60...  RSS] 

Creating  an  Image 

As  you  can  see  by  figures  la  and 
lb,  an  image  that  seems  to  appear  in 
front  of  the  screen  can  be  made  by 
drawing  the  green  image  to  the  left  of 
the  red  one.  An  image  that  appears 
behind  the  screen  is  simulated  by 
placing  the  green  image  to  the  right  of 
the  red  one.  The  apparent  depth  is 
determined  by  the  distance  between 
the  two  colored  images. 

It  should  be  mentioned  that  the 
brain  requires  a  frame  of  reference  to 
judge  distance  "properly."  An  effi- 
cient way  to  provide  this  reference  is 
to  put  a  white  border  around  the 
screen.  This  will  define  the  neutral 
plane.  Naturally,  any  objects  on  this 
plane  need  be  drawn  only  once  in 
white. 


The  program  in  listing  1  generates  a 
set  of  lines  which  appear  to  disappear 
into  the  distance. 

Another  simple  program  is  present- 
ed in  listing  2.  This  one  generates  a 
three-dimensional  box. 

Using  the  shape-generator  pro- 
grams provided  by  Apple,  the  user 
can  make  objects  appear  to  be 
various  sizes  and  depths.  This  effect 
can  be  seen  by  running  the  program 
in  listing  3. 

You  can  place  as  many  objects  in 
space  as  you  have  room  for.  There 
are,  however,  some  guidelines. 

•  You  should  draw  your  images 
from  back  to  front.  This  way  any 
overwriting  will  look  natural. 

•  As  you  approach  the  neutral 
plane,  the  two  images  get  closer 
together.  Any  place  that  they  are 
coincident  should  be  white.  This 
can  be  handled  with  software.  (I 
didn't  say  easily.) 

•  Using  other  colors  generates  an 
unbalanced  image  in  the  neutral 
plane — you  experiment. 

•  You  will  have  to  adjust  your  color 
television  set  to  match  the  color  of 
the  filters  that  are  being  used.  The 
best  way  to  do  this  is  to  draw  a 
small  green  square  and  a  small  red 
square  on  the  screen.  Then  place  a 

Text  continued  on  page  154 


If  you 

just  bought 

another 

printer, 

boy  are 

you  gonna 

be  sorry 


Epson. 


The  Epson  MX-80.  It's  not  just  another  worked- 
over  rehash  of  last  year's  model.  It's  our  top-of- 
the-line  80-column  printer.  It's  new.  From  the 
ground  up.  And  it's  the  most  revolutionary 
printer  to  hit  the  market  since  Epson  invented 
small  printers  for  the  1964  Olympics  in  Tokyo. 
Don't  take  our  word  for  it,  though.  Compare. 
There  simply  isn't  a  better  value  in  an  80-column 
printer.  Period. 

But  here's  the  fact  that's  going  to  stand  the 
printer  world  on  its  ear.  The  MX-80  sports  the 
world's  first  disposable  print  head.  After  it's 
printed  about  50  million  characters,  you  can 
throw  it  away.  Because  a  new  one  costs  less  than 
$30,  and  the  only  tool  you  need  to  change  it  is  at- 
tached to  the  end  of  your  arm. 

Now  that's  revolutionary, 
but  that's  only  the  beginning. 
The  MX-80  also  prints  bidirec- 
tionally  at  80  CPS  with  a  logi- 
cal seeking  function  to  mini- 
mize print  head  travel  time 


The  world's  first  disposable  print 
head.  It  has  a  life  expectancy  of  over  50 
million  characters,  yet  it's  so  simple, 
you  can  change  it  with  one  hand.  And  it 
costs  less  than  -  repeat  less  than -$30. 


and  maximize  throughput.  It  prints  96  ASCII, 
64  graphic  and  eight  international  characters  in 
a  tack-sharp  9x9  matrix.  And  it  provides  a  user- 
defined  choice  of  40,  80,  66  or  132  columns  and 
multiple  type  fonts. 

We  spent  three  long  years  developing  the 
MX-80  as  the  first  of  a  revolutionary  series  of 
Epson  MX  Printers.  We  employed  the  most  ad- 
vanced automatic  assembly  and  machining 
techniques  in  existence  to  produce  a  printer  that 
is  incredibly  versatile,  remarkably  reliable  and 
extraordinarily  inexpensive.  It's  a  printer  that 
could  only  come  from  the  world's  largest  man- 
ufacturer of  print  mechanisms:  Epson. 

If  it  sounds  like  we're  proud  of  the  MX-80,  we 
are.  Not  only  does  it  do  things 
some  of  the  world's  most  ex- 
pensive printers  can't  do,  it'll 
do  them  for  you  for  less  than 
$650.  That's  right.  Under  $650. 
And  if  that  isn't  revolution- 
ary, we  don't  know  what  is. 

EPSON 

EPSON  AMERICA,  INC. 


23844  Hawthorne  Boulevard,  Torrance,  California  90505,  Telephone  (213)  378-2220 


Circle  93  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980        149 


0 

X0  =  Y0 

5 

INIT  = 

10 

BLACK 

100 

CALL 

150 

REM 

200 

C0LR  = 

205 

X0  =  1  : 

250 

REM 

251 

REM 

252 

REM 

500 

REM 

510 

C0LR  = 

520 

C0LR  = 

550 

END 

CALL    LINE 


Listing  1:  This  Apple  integer  BASIC  program  generates  three-dimensional  lines  disappearing  into  infinity. 

COLR=SHAPE=ROT= SCALE 
2048:CLEAR=2062:PLOT=2830:LINE=2836:DRAW=2871 :XDRAW=2884 
=0:WHITE=127:VI0LET=85:    LET   GREEN=42 
INIT:    POKE   -16302,0: 

BUILD    THE    BORDER 
WHITE:X0=0:YO=0:    CALL    PLOT:XO=279:    CALL   LINE:Y0=191:    CALL    LINE:X0=0:    CALL   LINE:Y0=0: 
YO=1:    CALL   PL0T:X0=278:    CALL   LINE:YO=190:    CALL   LINE:XO=1:    CALL   LINE:YO=1:    CALL    LINE 


LINES    TO    INFINITY 

VIOLET:XO=25:YO=180:    CALL   PLOT: X0  =  260  :YO=20  :    CALL   LINE:XO  =  70 :Y0=180  :    CALL   LINE 

GREEN:XO=60:    CALL   PLOT:XO=270 :YO=20 :    CALL   LINE:X0=1 0 :Y0=1 80 :    CALL   LINE 


Listing  2:  An  Apple  integer  BASIC  program  for  generating  a  three-dimensional  box. 

0  XO=Y0=COLR=SHAPE=ROT=SCALE 

5  INIT=2048:CLEAR=2062:PL0T=2830:LINE=2836: DRAW =2871 :XDRAW=2884 
10  BLACK=0:WHITE=127:VIOLET=85:  LET  GREEN=42 
100  CALL  INIT:  POKE  -16302,0: 
150  REM    BUILD  THE  BORDER 

200  C0LR=WHITE:XO=0:Y0=0:  CALL  PL0T:X0=279:  CALL  LINE:Y0=191:  CALL  LINE:XO=0:  CALL  LINE:YO=0:  CALL  LINE 
205  X0=1:Y0=1:  CALL  PL0T:X0=278:  CALL  LINE:Y0=190:  CALL  LINE:X0=1:  CALL  LINE:Y0=1:  CALL  LINE 

600  REM 

601  REM 

602  REM 

603  REM   A  BOX 

610  COLR=WHITE:XO=150:YO=50:  CALL  PLOT:XO=250:  CALL  LINE:Y0=150:  CALL  LINE:XO=150 

615  COLR=GREEN:YO=75:XO=40:  CALL  LINE 

620  X0=140:  CALL  LINE: X0=250 :Y0=50 :  CALL  LINE 

622  XO=250:YO=150:  CALL  PLOT 

625  X0=140:Y0=175:  CALL  LINE:X0=40:  CALL  LINE:X0=1 50  :Y0=150 :  CALL  LINE:X0=40 : Y0=175 :  CALL  PLOT 

630  Y0=75:  CALL  LINE:XO=140:  CALL  PL0T:Y0=175:  CALL  LINE 

635  X0=41 :Y0=75:  CALL  PLOT: Y0=1 75 :  CALL  LINE:X0  =  141:  CALL  PL0T:Y0=75:  CALL  LINE 

637  C0LR=VI0LET 

640  XO=30:YO=185:  CALL  PL0T:Y0=85: 

642  X0=250:YO=150:  CALL  LINE 

645  XO=130:YO=185:  CALL  PLOT:XO=30:  CALL  LINE 

650  XO=150:YO=150:  CALL  LINE:XO=30 :Y0=85 :  CALL  PLOT: X0=1 50 :YO=50 :  CALL  LINE 

660  XO  =  130:YO=85:  CALL  PLOT: X0=250  :Y0=50  :  CALL  LINE 

680  END 


CALL  LINE:Y0=50:  CALL  LINE 


CALL  LINE:XO=130:  CALL  LINE: Y0= 1 85 :  CALL  LINE 


Listing  3:  This  program  uses  the  shape  stored  in  the  Apple  II  shape  table  and  transforms  it  into  three-dimensional  form. 


o 

5 
10 
100 
150 
200 
205 
250 
700 
701 
710 
800 
801 
802 
805 
810 
820 
830 
840 
999 


X0=Y0=C0LR=SHAPE=R0T=SCALE 

INIT=2048:CLEAR=2062:PLOT=2830:LINE=2836:DRAW=2871 :XDRAW=2884 

BLACK=0:WHITE=127:VIOLET=85:  LET  GREEN=42 

CALL  INIT:  POKE  -16302,0: 

REM    BUILD  THE  BORDER 

COLR=WHITE:XO=0:YO=0:  CALL  PL0T:X0=279:  CALL  LINE:Y0=191 


CALL  LINE:XO=0:  CALL  LINE:Y0=0:  CALL  LINE 


X0=1:Y0=1:  CALL  PL0T:X0=278:  CALL  LINE:Y0=190:  CALL  LINE:X0=1:  CALL  LINE:Y0=1:  CALL  LINE 

REM 

REM 

REM 

REM 

REM     3-D  SQUARES 

REM    USE  SHAPE  #1 

REM   SHAPE  #1  =  01  01  24  3F  3F  36  36  2D  2D  24  00 

ROT=0:SCALE=1 :SHAPE=1 :X0=5:Y0=5 

FOR  1=1  TO  7:SCALE=I:C0LR=GREEN:X0=X0+(I»4) :Y0=Y0+(I»4) 

CALL  XDRAW:C0LR=VI0LET:X0=X0+I:Y0=Y0+I:  CALL  XDRAW :  NEXT  I 

XO=XO+32:YO=90:COLR=GREEN:SCALE=SCALE+2:  CALL  XDRAW: COLR=VIOLET: Y0=Y0+8 :X0=X0+8 :  CALL  XDRAW 

X0=X0+42:Y0=Y0-42:C0LR=GREEN:SCALE=SCALE+2:  CALL  XDRAW :C0LR=VI0LET: Y0=Y0+9 :X0=X0+9 :  CALL  XDRAW 

END 


Editor's  Note: 

Some  Comments  on  the  Programs 

The  three  programs  in  this 
article  assume  that  the  high- 
resolution  graphics  routines  have 
been  loaded  into  the  Apple  II  start- 
ing at  hexadecimal  location  COO. 
The  instruction  LOMEM-A096 
should  be  executed  before  loading 
the  programs  to  protect  these 
routines. 

When  I  was  typing  these  pro- 


grams into  the  Apple,  I  noticed 
that  line  10  of  each  listing  has  the 
statement  LET  GREEN  =  42.  At 
the  time  I  could  not  understand 
why  the  LET  keyword  was  used, 
so  I  deleted  it.  Several  syntax 
errors  later  I  realized  the  answer. 

When  "GREEN  =  42"  is  parsed 
by  the  BASIC  interpreter,  the 
token  GR  (for  graphics  mode)  is 
recognized.  The  rest  of  the  line 
(EEN  =  42)  is  then  unrecognizable 


to  the  parser.  When  "LET  GREEN 
=  42"  is  analyzed,  the  keyword 
LET  tells  the  parser  that  the  next 
token  will  be  a  variable. 
Therefore,  GREEN  is  not  broken 
into  two  tokens  (GR  and  EEN). 

This  little  trick  could  prove  very 
useful  when  you  wish  to  use  a 
variable  name  which  contains  a 
keyword. 


150       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


INDUSTRIAL 

MICRO 

SYSTEMS 


More  than  meets  the  eye. 


The  new  Series  5000  is  mighty  for  its  size. 
In  more  than  several  thousand  ways! 

In  fact,  it's  the  first  small  system  offering  over  a 
megabyte  of  integrated  mini-floppy  capacity.  And 
with  its  super  memory  management,  you  can  have 
better  than  300k  of  RAM  in  desk  or  desktop  ver- 
sions. But  hardware  is  just  the  beginning  of  the  story. 

It's  the  wide  selection  of  software  that  really 
makes  this  system  mighty. 

Operating  systems?  Choose  CP/M*  with 
CBASICf — the  most  widely  accepted  small  computer 
operating  system  ever.  Or  MVT-FAMOS,**  a  multi- 
user, multi-tasking  operating  system  with  file 
management  like  the  big  guys,  Or  MICROCOBOL,tt 


also  for  multiple  users,  but  implemented  in  COBOL, 
familiar  to  commercial  users  the  world  over. 

And  applications  programs  for  these  operating 
systems  number  in  the  thousands.  From  real  estate 
to  accounting,  taxes  to  inventory  control,  they're  all 
available  at  low  cost — ready  to  run. 

When  you  add  these  software  and  hardware 
features  to  Industrial  Micro  Systems'  reputation  for 
rugged,  reliable  quality  products  you'll  begin  to  see  it 
all.  A  lot  more  systems  than  your  first  glance  reveals. 

See  even  more  at  your  dealer.  Call  us  to  find 
out  the  name  of  your  nearest  dealer.  He'll  tell  you 
everything  you  need  to  know.  And  really  open  your 
eyes! 


•Trademark  ot  Digital  Research  Inc. 


'Trademark  of  MVT  Microcomputer  Systems  Inc. 


tTrademark  of  Software  Systems 


ttProductofCAP-CPP 


INDUSTRIAL  MICRO  SYSTEMS 


Circle  94  on  inquiry  card. 


628  N.  Eckhoff  St.,  Orange,  CA  92668,  (714)  978-6966 
2800  Lockheed  Way,  Carson  City,  NV  89701 

See  us  at  Comdex  '80  Nov.  18-21,  1980  Las  Vegas  Convention  Center. 


BYTE  Novate  1M0       151 


Today  one  dollar  buys 
%  of  a  business  phone  call. 


Today  one  dollar  buys 

6V*  readers  who  actually  see 

your  sales  message. 


As  your  selling  dollar  buys 
less  and  less,  it  pays  more  and 
more  to  advertise  in 
McGraw-Hill  magazines. 

As  prices  keep  going  up  and  up, 
McGraw-Hill  magazines  help  10.8  million 
decision-makers  keep  costs  down. 

For  example,  Chemical  Week  told 
chemical  processing  managers  and  pro- 
fessionals how  exports  credits  could 
lower  their  debt-servicing  costs.  And 
Engineering  News-Record  showed  the 
construction  industry  how  to  cope  with 
the  destructive  effects  of  the  1981  federal 
budget. 

By  helping  10.8  million  readers  solve 
their  inflation  problems,  we  help  you 
solve  yours. 

Today,  the  price  of  reaching  one 
potential  customer  in  McGraw-Hill 
magazines  is  only  16*.  '  This  compares  to 
a  cost  of  $6. 07  for  sending  a  business  let- 
ter,2 over  $3. 50  for  a  business  phone  call,3 
and  an  in-person  sales  call  which,  believe 
it  or  not,  now  costs  $137. 02.4 

In  times  like  these,  when  everything 
costs  more,  you  may  be  tempted  to 
spend  less  on  your  advertising  budget. 
But  our  Laboratory  of  Advertising  Per- 
formance (LAP)  Report  #5262  demon- 
strates that  "Industrial  companies  that 
maintained  or  increased  their  advertising 
expenditure  during  the  1974-75  recession 
enjoyed  higher  sales  growth  than  those 
that  cut  advertising."  Write  1221  Avenue 
of  the  Americas,  New  York,  N.Y.  10020 
for  LAP  Report  #5262  today.  And  let  us 
help  you  make  your  advertising  more 
efficient,  as  the  price  of  all  other  selling 
tools  becomes  more  expensive. 

'One  reader-noted  impression  in  the  average  McGraw-Hill  publieation. 
2The  Dartnel!  Institute  of  Business  Research.  ^"Telephone  Marketing" 
by  Murray  Roman.  P.  87,  McGraw-Hill  1976.  4Laboratory  of  Advertising 
Performance  Report  #8013.5.  McGraw-Hill  Research. 


McGraw-Hill  Magazines 

With  inflation, 
we're  an  even  better  buy 


(la) 


RED  IMAGE 


X 
I 

II 
II 
I  I 
I  I 


N.,'!/" 


QREEN   IMAGE 


I      I 
I      I 

I       I 


VIRTUAL 
OBJECT 


SCREEN 


RED  FILTER 


I 


-♦    *-< GREEN   FILTER 


OBSERVER 


Figure  1:  A  figure  which  appears  to  be  behind  the  video  screen  can  be  produced  by 
drawing  the  red  image  on  the  left  side  of  the  screen  and  the  green  image  on  the  right  side 
(see  figure  la).  By  reversing  these  two  images,  the  image  will  appear  to  be  in  front  of  the 
video  screen  (see  figure  lb). 


(lb) 


GREEN  IMAGE 


RED  FILTER 


RED   IMAGE 


SCREEN 


VIRTUAL 
OBJECT 


—     —    1 GREEN   FILTER 


OBSERVER 


Text  continued  from  page  148: 
piece  of  the  green  filter  over  the  red 
square  and  a  piece  of  the  red  filter 
over  the  green  square.  Adjust  the 
tint,  chrominance  (if  you  have 
one),  and  color  knobs  so  that  both 
squares  disappear  (as  much  as 
possible. .  .you  may  have  to  double 
up  the  filters). 

•  If  you  aren't  worried  about  using 
your  color  television  for  other 
entertainment,  you  can  make  the 
following  adjustments  to  it.  On  the 
back  of  the  set  are  three  controls 
that  are  (usually)  labeled  red, 
green,  and  blue  (or  R,  G,  B;  or  red 
screen,  blue  screen,  green  screen). 
These  adjust  the  relative  intensity 
of  the  three  electron  guns.  If  you 
first  mark  the  initial  positions  of 
the  three  controls  with  a  pencil, 

154       November  1M0  ©  BYTE  Publication  Inc 


you  will  be  able  to  reset  them  when 
you  are  finished.  The  adjustment  is 
simple.  Turn  the  blue  screen  off! 
This  removes  all  the  blue  dots  from 
the  screen,  only  red  and  green 
remain.  After  adjusting  the  tele- 
vision as  described  in  the  previous 
step,  reverse  the  positions  of  the 
filters  (red  over  red,  green  over 
green)  and  adjust  the  red  screen  so 
that  the  intensity  of  the  two 
squares  through  the  filters  appears 
the  same. 
•  We  used  colored  cellophane, 
available  at  most  art  supply  stores, 
for  filters. 

There  are  a  number  of  games  that 
can  be  adapted  to  three-dimensional 
displays  with  this  technique.  Have 
fun!B 


Hazeltine  Distributors: 

ALABAMA:  Huntavlllo,  W  A  Brown  Instruments.  Inc  (205)  883-8660 
ALASKA:  Anchorage,  Global  Communications.  Inc  1907)  276-4532 
ARIZONA:  Ptioenli.  Data  Systems  Marketing  (602)265-5216.  Leasametnc 
(602)258-1225:  PLS  Associates.  Inc  (602)  279 -1531  Tempe,  Hamilton 
Avnel  Electronics  (602)  275-7851 .  The  Phoenix  Group  (602)  894-9247 
CALIFORNIA:  Anaheim.  Leasamelric  (714)  634-9525  Burlingame.  Data 
Access  Systems  (415)  692-5711.  Canon,  Data  Access  Systems  (213) 
538-4100;  Data  Systems  Marketing  (213)324-1151.  Costa  Mesa.  Hamil- 
ton Avnel  Electronics  (7(4)  64!  4100  Avnel  Electronics  (714)  754-6111. 
Culver  City,  Hamilton  Avnet  Electronics  (213)  558-2000.  Leasametnc 
(213)  670-0461;  Foalac  City.  Leasametnc  (415)  574-4441;  Hawthorne 
Hamilton  Avnet  Electronics  (213)  970-0956;  Kayward,  Byle  Industries. 
Inc  (415)  783-8272:  The  Phoenix  Group  (415)  887-2851;  Irvine.  Compu- 
ter Datacom,  Inc  (714)  540-6327;  Data  Systems  Marketing  (714)  540- 
2312;  Kentlleltl.  American  Peripheral  Exchange  (415)  457-0822.  Lot 
Angeles.  David  Jamison  Carlyle  Corp  (213)  277-4562;  Martinez.  Ameri- 
can Peripheral  Exchange  (415)  229-3810  Mountalnvlew,  Data  Systems 
Marketing  (415)941-0240;  Newport  Beach,  David  Jamison  Carlyle  Corp 
(714)  640-0355;  Northrldge,  Dayton  Forester  Associates,  Inc  (213)  992- 
6831.  Oakland,  Consolidated  Data  Terminals  (415)  533-8125;  Orlnda. 
David  Jamison  Carlyle  Corp.  (415)  254-9378.  Redondo  Beach,  Consoli- 
dated Data  Terminal  (213)  970-1030,  San  Olego.  Data  Systems  Marketing 
(714)  560-9222;  Electronic  Marketing  Specialists  (714)  560-5133;  Hamil- 
ton Avnet  Electronics  (714)  571  -7510,  Leasametnc  (714)  565-7475;  Santa 
Clara,  American  Peripheral  Exchange  (408)  244-0260.  Sherman  Oaks. 
Electronic  Marketing  Specialists  (213)  990-4244.  Sunnyvale,  Electronic 
Marketing  Specialists  (408)  245-9291.  Hamilton  Avnet  Electronics  (408) 
743-3355;  Torrance,  the  Phoenix  Group.  Inc  (513)  533-8134.  Tuatin. 
Electronic  Marketing  Specialists  (714)  832-9920 
COLORADO:  Danvar.  Data  Systems  Marketing  (303)  573-5133;  Leasame- 
tnc (303)  429-7900:  PLS  Associates,  Inc  (303)  773  1218.  Englearood. 
Hamilton  Avnet  Electronics  (303)  779-9996 

CONNECTICUT:  West  Haven.  Westwood  Associates  (203)  932-6383; 
Southbury.  J  J  Wild.  Inc  (203)  264-9494 
DELAWARE:  Newark.  Westwood  Associates  (302)  454- 1 1 1 3 
FLORIDA:  Fort  Lauderdale.  Hamilton  Avnel  Electronics  (305)  971-2900: 
W  A  Brown  Instruments.  Inc  (305)  776  4800;  Melbourne.  W  A  Brown 
Instruments,  Inc  (305)  723-0766:  Orlando,  Leasametnc  (305)  857-3500, 
W.  A  Brown  Instruments,  Inc  (305)  425  5505:  Tallahassee,  W  A  Brown 
Instruments.  Inc  (904)  878-6642;  Tampa.  W  A  Brown  Instruments,  Inc 
(813)977-0914. 

GEORGIA:  Atlanta.  Data  Access  Systems  (404)  449-5435;  W  A  Brown 
Instruments.  Inc  (404)  455-1035;  Lake  City,  Westwood  Associates  (404) 
961-0712.  NorcrOM,  Hamilton  Avnet  Electronics  (404)  448-0800.  Leasa- 
metnc (404)  449-6123. 

HAWAII:  Honolulu,  David  Jamison  Carlyle  Corporation  (808)  531-5136. 
Kinooko.  Data  Systems  Marketing  (808)  247-0934 
ILLINOIS:  Chicago.  David  Jamison  Carlyle  Corporation  (312)  475-1500; 
Elk  Grave  Village,  Leasametnc  (312)  595-2700.  Peripheral  Support  Inc 
(312)  593-5900.  Morton  Grove,  Data  Access  Systems  (312)  967-0440: 
Schiller  Park.  Hamilton  Avnet  Electronics  (312)  678-6310 
INDIANA:  Indianapolis,  Hamilton  Avnet  Electronics  1317)  844-9333. 
South  Band,  General  Micro  Computer  (219)  277-4972 
KANSAS:  Lanoia,  North  Supply  Company  (913)  888-9800;  Loonam  Asso- 
ciates, Inc  (913)  888-2124;  Overland  Porli,  Hamilton  Avnet  Electronics 
(913)  888-8900:  Shawnee  Mlaalon.  Inland  Associates.  Inc  (913)  362- 
2366. 

KENTUCKY:  JtNamotown.  Loonam  Associates  (502)  499-8280 
LOUISIANA:  Mandevllle,  W.  A.  Brown  Instruments.  Inc  (504)  626-9701 
MARYLAND:  Baltimore,  Hamilton  Avnet  Electronics  (301)  796-5000: 
Weslwood  Associates  (301)  356-7812;  Gallhenourg,  Leasametric  (301) 
948-9700;  Lanham,  Data  Access  Systems  (301 )  459-3377 

MASSACHUSETTS:  Cambridge,  Compuman  Corporation  (61 7)  491  -2700: 
Naadham.  J  J  Wild,  Inc  (617)  444-2366.  Norwood,  Data  Access  Sys- 
tems (617)  769-6420;  Woburn.  Hamilton  Avnet  Electronics  (617)  273- 
7500,  Leasametric  (617)  935-7780 

MICHIGAN:  Ann  Arbor,  Compuman  Corporation  (313)  994-3200;  Livonia, 
Hamilton  Avnet  Electronics  (313)  522-4700;  Troy.  Data  Access  Systems 
(313)589-1409, 

MINNESOTA:  Buratvlllo.  Leasametnc  (612)  894-6060:  Edina,  Hamilton 
Avnet  Electronics  (612)  941  -3801 ;  Minneapolis,  Loonam  Associates  (612) 
831-1616 

MISSOURI:  Earth  City,  Hamilton  Avnet  Electronics  (314)  344-1200.  St. 
Louts,  Inland  Associates  (314)  621-3742:  Loonam  Associates  (314)  427- 
7272 

NEBRASKA:  Omaha,  Loonam  Associates  (402)  333-5502 
NEW  HAMPSHIRE:  Merrimack.  J.  J  Wild.  Inc  (603)  424-4717 
NEW  JERSEY:  Allendale,  Leasametric  (201)  825-9000;  Bogota,  Qytel 
(201)487-7737.  Cherry  Hill,  The  Dalastore,  Inc  (609)  779-0200;  Hamil- 
ton Avnet  Electronics  (609)  424-0100.  Clnnamlnaon,  Westwood  Associ- 
ates (609)  829-7280;  Fairlleld,  Hamilton  Avnet  Electronics  (201 )  575- 
3390  Motawan,  David  Jamison  Carlyle  Corporation  (201)  946-9669. 
Mountain  Lakes.  Data  Access  Systems  (201 )  335-3322.  Palisades  Park, 
Oala  Access  Syslems  (201 )  944  2005;  Roielle,  TSC  Data  Terminals  (201 ) 
245-6333;  Sprlngtleld.  Westwood  Associates  (201)  376-4242.  Union. 
Transnet  Corporation  (201 )  688-7800 

NEW  MEXICO:  Albuquerque.  Data  Systems  Marketing  (505)  294-5790. 
PLS  Associates.  Inc  (505)  255-2330 

NEW  YORK:  Falrporl,  Data  Access  Systems  (716)  377  2080.  Great  Neck, 
MTI  Sales  Corporation  (212)  896-7177;  Mollis,  Synchro-Sound  Enter- 
prises (212)  468-7067,  Latham,  J.  Cameron  Associates.  Inc  (518)  371- 
5947;  Melville,  Hamilton  Avnet  Electronics  (516)  454  6060.  New  York, 
Byte  Shop  East,  Inc  1212)  889-4204;  Data  Access  Systems  (212)  564- 
9301;Leasametric(212)594-6900;JohnD  OwensAssociates,  Inc  (212) 
448-6283:  Qytel  (212)  889-3888,  Plttiford.  J  Cameron  Associates,  Inc 
(716)  386-1681:  Plilnvlew,  Leasametnc  (516)  293  5881  Rochester. 
Hamilton  Avnet  Electronics  (716)475-9130;  East  Syracuse.  Hamilton  Av- 
net Electronics  (315)  437-2641;  Syracuse,  Leasametric  (315)  455-561 1 

NORTH  CAROLINA:  Durham,  W.  A.  Brown  Instruments.  Inc  (919)  683- 
1560 

OHIO:  Cincinnati,  Interactive  Information  Systems  (513)  761-0132;  Cleve- 
land, Data  Access  Systems  (216)  473-2131;  Hamilton  Avnet  Electronics 
(216)  831-3500,  MTI  Systems  (216)  464-6688;  Pro-Data  Corporation 
(216)  229-8100.  Dayton,  Hamilton  Avnet  Electronics  (513)  433-0610. 
Leasametric  (513)  898-1707. 

OREGON:  Bend,  Data  Systems  Marketing  (503)  388-3612;  Hlllaboro.  Data 
Systems  Marketing  (503)  640-4863 

PENNSYLVANIA:  Alton,  MLPI  Newcorp  Products.  Inc.  (215)  485-8180. 
Bala  Cynwyd,  Data  Access  Systems  (215)  667-8315;  Folerotl,  Leasame 
trie  (215)  583-2000:  Huntingdon  Valley.  Marketline  Syslems.  Inc  (215) 
947-6670. 

SOUTH  CAROLINA:  Columbia,  W  A  Brown  Instruments.  Inc  1803)  798- 
8070 

TENNESSEE:  Dak  Ridge.  W  A.  Brown  Instruments.  Inc  (615)  482-5761 
TEXAS:  Austin.  Hamilton  Avnet  Electronics  (512)  837-8911.  Dallas, 
Leasametric  (214)  661-9193;  Houston,  CMC  Marketing  Corporation  (713) 
995-4960:  Data  Access  Systems  (713)  682-5965.  Hamilton  Avnet  Elec- 
tronics (713)  780-1 771 ;  Leasametric  (713)  977-5990:  Irving,  Data  Access 
Systems  (214)  256-5536;  Hamilton  Avnet  Electronics  (214)  661-8204 
UTAH:  Silt  Lata  City.  Data  Systems  Marketing  (801 )  487-8281 ,  Hamilton 
Avnet  Electronics  (801 )  972-2600;  PLS  Associates.  Inc  (801 )  466-8729 

VIRGINIA:  Newport  News.  Atlantic  Communications  (604)  380-8498; 
Sterling.  Comsel  Corporation  (703)  525-5689.  Vienna.  Comsel  Corpora- 
tion (703)  938-5264. 

WASHINGTON:  Bellevue,  Hamilton  Avnel  Electronics  (206)  643-3950; 
Sothell,  Data  Systems  Marketing  1206)  487-3571 :  Redmond,  Consoli- 
dated Data  Terminals  (206)  883-0100;  Leasametric  (206)  883-6510; 
Tukwlla,  Data  Access  Systems  (206)  251-5070 
WISCONSIN:  Milwaukee.  Hamilton  Avnet  Electronics  (414)  784-4510:  Pe- 
ripheral Support,  Inc  (414)  774-1000;  Waukotha,  Loonam  Associates 
(414)  548-9790 


Smart 


Your  Hazeltine 

distributor  has  all 

the  terminals 

you  need. 


You  can  save  time  by  taking  all  your  TTY  terminal  needs  to  one  source 
—  your  local  Hazeltine  distributor.  Right  in  your  neighborhood,  your 
distributor  offers  the  same  quality,  the  same  service  and  the  same 
comprehensive  warranty  program  that  you  would  get  by  contacting 
Hazeltine  directly. 

The  Hazeltine  distributor  can  give  you  easy 
access  to  a  broad  selection  of  Hazeltine 
products,  including  the  economical 
Hazeltine  1400/1500  series  of  conversational 
and  editing  terminals,  the  high  performance 
Modular  One  family,  and — soon  — 
the  new  Hazeltine  Executive  80™  line 
of  sophisticated  smart  terminals. 
An  experienced  sales  professional, 
your  local  distributor  is  ready  to 
provide  full  product  and  application 
support. 

Most  important,  each  of  our  autho- 
rized distributors  has  Hazeltine's  full 
support.  You  will  find  that  Hazeltine's 
entire  field  and  factory  organization 
supports  the  distributor  when  you 
need  delivery,  warranty  service,  or 
even  just  the  answer  to  a  question. 

Be  a  smart  shopper.  Call  your  near-        

est  Hazeltine  distributor — part  of  our 
winning  team  for  the  eighties. 

Hazeltine  Corporation, 
Computer  Terminal  Equipment, 
Greenlawn,  NY  11740. 
(516)  549-8800     Telex:  96-1435 

Hazeltine  and  the  Pursuit  of  Excellence 


Answers  for 
the  Eighties 


economy 


Hazeltin 

1500  Seri 


Circle  95  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980         155 


No.  17 

Software  with 
full  support 

Purchasing  our  software  is  just  the 
beginning.  We  then  back  it  up  with 
professional  support: 
■  Subscription  to  "LIFELINES"  for  automatic 
notifications  of  revisions!  ■  Update  service  for 
software  and  documentation!  ■  Telephone 
Hotline!     Overseas  software  export  service! 


with   /«. 
Annual  /    Al 


All  Lifeboat  programs  require  CP/M, 
unless  otherwise  stated. 


$v/ 


Mis, 


/JW* 


G  CP/M*  FLOPPY  DISK  OPERATING  SYS- 
TEM—Digital  Research's  operating  system 
configured  for  many  popular  micro-computers 
and  disk  systems: 

System  Version  Price 

Apple  II*   2.x  . . .  .349/25  0 

SoftCard*  with  Z80 

Microsoft  BASIC  version  5 

with  high  resolution 

graphics 
North  Star  Single  Density   . .  2.x  . . .  .170/25 

North  Star  Double/Quad  ...  2.x 170/25 

Durango  F-85 2.x  .. .  .170/25 


CDISILOG  — As   DISTEL  to  Zilog/Mostek 

®  mnemonic  files S65/S10 

® 

I  SMAL/80  Structured  Macro  Assembler 
®  Language— Package  of  powerful  general 
purpose  text  macro  processor  and  SMAL 
structured  language  compiler.  SMAL  is  an  as- 
sembler language  with  IF-THEN-ELSE, 
LOOP-REPEAT-WHILE,  DO-END,  BEGIN- 
END  constructs $75/$15 

PHOENIX  SOFTWARE  ASSOCIATES 

HPASM*  —  Z80  macro  assembler,  Intel/TDL 
©mnemonics.  Generates  Intel  hex  format  or  re- 
locatable code  in  either  TDL  Object  Module 
format  or  PSA  Relocatable  Binary  Module  for- 
mat. Supports  text  insertion,  conditional 
branching  within  macros,  recursive  macro  calls 

and  parameter  passing $129/525 

E  I  EDIT— Character  oriented  text  file  editor.  In- 

©  eludes  macro  definition  capabilities.  Handles 

insertion,  deletion,  searching,  block  move,  etc. 

for  files  of  any  length.   Does  not  require  a 

CRT. S129/S25 

L  ]  PLINK*— Two  pass  disk-to-disk  linkage  edi- 
©  tor/loader  which  can  produce  re-entrant, 


iCOM  Micro-Disk  241 1   1 .4  . .  .  .145/25 

iCOM  3712  for  MITS 

88-2SIO  Console 1 .4  . . .  .170/25  * 

iCOM   3712  for 

3P+S/MITS  SIO 

Rev  non-zero  console    . . .  1 .4  . . .  .170/25  * 

JCOM3812 14. .    .170/25* 

Mits  3202/Altair  8800 1 .4  . .  .  .145/25 

Heath  H8  -  H17 1.4  ...  .145/25  ® 

Heath  H89   1.4...  .145/25  ® 

Heath  H89  by  Magnolia  ....  2.x  .. .  .300/25  O 

Ohio  Scientific  C3 2.x 200/25 

Onyx  C8001  Standard 2.x .. .  .250/25 

Onyx  C8001  Enhanced   ....  2.x  ..  .  .330/25 

TRS-80  Model  I 1 .4  . .  .  .145/25  ® 

TRS-80  Model  II   2.x 170/25  ^  ROMable  code.  Can  link  programs  that  are 


2.x. 


250/25 


TRS-80  Model  II  *  Corvus 
Processor  Technology 

Helios  II 1.4.. .  .145/25 

Intel  MDS  Single  Density  ...  2.x 170/25 

Intel  MDS  Double  Density  . .  2.x  . . .  .170/25 

Mtcropolis  Mod  I    2.x  .. .  .200/25  ® 

Micropolis  Mod  II 2.x  ..  .  .200/25  ® 

Mostek  MDX  STD 

Bus  System  2.x  .. .  .350/25  ** 

The  following  configurations  are  scheduled  for 

release  soon: 

North  Star  Double/Quad 

+  Corvus   2.x  .. .  .250/25 

Ohio  Scientific  C3-C 2.x 250/25 

iCOM  3812 2.x  .. .  .225/25  ' 

iCOM  451 1/Pertec  D3000  . .  2.x  . . .  .375/25  *  i 
Software  consist  -  of  the  operating  system,  text 
editor,  assembler,  debugger  and  other  utilities 
for  file  management  and  system  maintenance. 
Complete  set  of  Digital  Research's  documen- 
tation and  additional  implementation  notes  in- 
cluded. Systems  marked  *  and  **  include  firm- 
ware on  2708  and  2716.  Systems  marked  +  in- 
clude 5440  media  charge.  Systems  marked 
®  require  the  special  ®  versions  of  soft- 
ware in  this  catalog.  O  includes  hardware  ad- 
dition to  allow  our  standard  versions  of 
software  to  run  under  it. 
□  Z80  DEVELOPMENT  PACKAGE-Consists 
®  of:  (1)  disk  file  line  editor,  with  global  inter  and 
©  intra-line  facilities;  (2)  Z80  relocating  assem- 
bler, Zilog/Mostek  mnemonics,  conditional  as- 
sembly and  cross  reference  table  capabilities; 
(3)  linking  loader  producing  absolute  Intel  hex 

disk  file  $95/$20 

DZDT— Z80  Monitor  Debugger  to  break  and 

®examine  registers  with  standard  Zilog/ 

©  Mostek  mnemonic  disassembly  displays.  $35 

when   ordered   with   Z80   Development 

Package  $50/$10 


r1         ca 


jp> 


arger  than  available  memory  for  execution 
rgeted  on  another  machine.  Full  library 
capabilities.  Input  can  be  PSA  Relocatable  Bi- 
nary Module,  TDL  Object  Module  or  Microsoft 
REL  files.  Output  can  be  a  COM  file,  Intel  hex 
file.  TDL  Object  Module  or  PSA  Relocatable 

file S129/S25 

DBUQ*  and  ^BUG*  — Z80  interactive  machine 

©level  debugging  tools  for  program  develop- 

^l  ment.  BUG  has  full  symbolic  trace  and  interac- 

y  tive  assembly  (mnemonics  compatible  with 

PASM).  Dynamic  breakpoints  and  conditional 

traps  while  tracing  (even  through  ROM!).  ^BUG 

is  a  subset  of  BUG  and  is  used  in  memory 

limited  situations $129/$25 


DIGITAL  RESEARCH 

II  MP/M- Installed  for  single  density  MDS-800. 
Multi-processing  derivative  of  the  CP/M  op- 
erating system.  Manual  includes  CP/M2 
documentation $300/550 

□  MAC— 8080  Macro  assembler.  Full  Intel  macro 
©definitions.  Pseudo  Ops  include  RPC,   IRP, 

REPT,  TITLE,  PAGE,  and  MACLIB.  Produces 

absolute  hex  output  plus  symbol  table  file  for 

use  by  SID  and  ZSID  (see  below)   .  ,$120/$15 

CSID—  8080  Symbolic  debugger.   Full  trace, 

©pass  count  and  breakpoint  program  testing. 

Has  backtrace  and  histogram  utilities.  When 

used  with  MAC,  provides  full  symboiic  display  of 

memory  labels  and  equated  values  ,$105/$15 

GZSID— Z80  Symbolic  debugger  with  all  fea- 

©turesof  SID   $130/$15 

© 

[""!  TEX  —  Text  output  formatter  to  create  paginat- 

®  ed,  page-numbered  and  justified  copy.  Output 

can  be  directed  to  printer  or  disk   .  .  $105/$15 

□  DESPOOL— Utility  program  to  permit  simulta- 
©  neous  printing  from  text  files  while  executing 

other  programs   $80/$10 

Li  tiny  C  — Interactive  interpretive  system  tor 
©teaching  structured  programming  techniques. 
Manual  includes  full  source  listings  ,$105/$50 
Q  BDS  C  COMPILER  — Supports  structures, 
®  unions,  2  dimensional  arrays,  pointers,  recur- 
©  sion  and  overlays.  Features  optimized  code 
,    j  generator,  variablesized  buffers  for  file  I/O,  and 

,^^y   capability  to  produce  ROMable  code.  Includes 

As  XASM-68  for  RCA  1°P*=  ^  ay  macro  package  to  enable  user  to  produce  Itnk- 
'-'1Jl''  ':''  able  modules  with  MAC  (see  under  Digital  Re- 
search). Floating  point  functions,  full  run-time 
package  and  machine  code  library  sources 
provided.  Linker,  library  manager  and  textbook 
included.  Compiler  lacks  initializers,  statics, 
floats  and  longs $145/$25 


AVOCET  SYSTEMS 

LJ  XASM-68—  Non-macro  cross-assembler  with 
nested  conditionals  and  full  range  of  pseudo 
operations.  Assembles  from  standard  Motorola 
MC6800  mnemonics  to  Intel  hex  . .  ,$200/$25 

Pi  XASM-65-  As  XASM-68  for  MOS  Technology 
MCS-6500  series  mnemonics $200/$25 

LJ  XASM-48-  As  XASM-68  for  Intel  MCS-48  and 
UPI-41  families  $200/$25 


□  DISTEL— Disk  based  disassembler  to  Intel 
8080  orTDL/Xitan  Z80  source  code,  listing  and 
cross  reference  files,  Intel  or  TDL/Xitan  pseudo 
ops  optional.  Runs  on  8080 $65/$10 


WHITESMITHS  C  COMPILER- The  ultimate 
©in  systems  software  tools.  Produces  faster 
®  code  than  a  pseudo-code  Pascal  with  more 
extensive  facilities.  Conforms  to  the  full  UNIX* 
Version  7  C  language,  described  by  Kernighan 
and  Ritchie,  and  makes  available  over  75  func 
tions  for  performing  I/O,  string  manipulation 
and  storage  allocation.  Linkable  to  Microsoft 
REL  files   Requires  60K  CP/M $630/$30 

MICROSOFT 

H  BASIC-80- Disk   Extended  BASIC,  ANSI 

©compatible   with   long  variable   names, 

®  WHILE/WEND,  chaining,  variable  length  file 

records.  MBASIC  version  4.51  also  included  on 

disk $325/$25 

□  BASIC  COMPILER— Language  compatible 
©with  BASIC-80  and  3-10  times  faster  execution. 
®  Produces  standard  Microsoft  relocatable  bi- 
nary output.  Includes  MACRO-80.  Also  linkable 
to    FORTRAN-80    or    COBOL-80    code 

modules   $350/$25 

_TFORTRAN-80-ANSI  66  (except  for  COM- 

©  PLEX)  plus  many  extensions.  Includes  relocat- 

®  able  object  compiler,  linking  loader,  library  with 

manager.   Also  includes  MACRO-80  (see 

below) $425/$25 

:~  COBOL-80-  Level  1  ANSI  74  standard  plus 
©most  of  Level  2.  Full  sequential,  relative,  and 
@  indexed  file  support  with  variable  file  names. 
Powerful  interactive,  formatted  screen  handling 
with  ACCEPT  and  DISPLAY  verbs.  Program 
segmentation  for  execution  of  programs  larger 
than  memory  and  CHAIN  command  with  pa- 
rameter passing.  Full  support  of  CP/M  version 
2  files.  Includes  MACRO-80  (see  above),  link- 
ing loader,  and  relocatable  library  manager. 

Requires  48K  CP/M $700/$25 

,   I  MACRO-80  —  8080/Z80   Macro   Assembler. 

CD  Intel  and  Zilog  mnemonics  supported.  Relocat- 

®able  linkable  output.  Loader,  Library  Manager 

and     Cross     Reference     List     utilities 

included $149/$15 

XMACRO-86—  8086   cross   assembler.   All 
©  Macro  and  utility  features  of  MACRO-80  pack- 
age.  Mnemonics  slightly  modified  from  Intel 
ASM86.      Compatibility      data      sheet 

available $275/$25 

[  ]  EDIT-80  — Very  fast  random  access  text  editor 

©  for  text  with  or  without  line  numbers.  Global  and 

intra-line  commands  supported.  File  compare 

utility  included $89/$15 

i  j  PASCAL/M*— Compiles  enhanced  Standard 
®  Pascal  to  compressed  efficient  Pcode.  Totally 
CP/M  compatible.  Random  access  files.  Both 
16  and  32-bit  Integers.  Runtime  error  recovery. 
Convenient  STRINGS.  OTHERWISE  clause  on 
CASE.  Comprehensive  manual  (90  pp.  inde- 
xed). SEGMENT  provides  overlay  structure. 
IN  PORT,  OUTPORT  and  untyped  files  for  arbi- 
trary I/O.  Requires  56K  CP/M.  Specify  1)  8080 
CP/M     2)   Z80   CP/M,   or   3)   Cromemco 

CDOS $175/$20 

[JPASCAL/Z-Z80  native  code  PASCAL  com- 
©  piler.  Produces  optimized,  ROMable  re-entrant 
©  code.  All  interfacing  to  CP/M  is  through  the 
support  library.  The  package  includes  compiler, 
relocating  assembler  and  linker,  and  source 
for  all  library  modules.  Variant  records,  strings 
and  direct  I/O  are  supported.  Requires  56K 

CP/M    $395/$25 

Li  PASCAL/MT- Subset  of  standard   PASCAL. 
®  Generates  ROMable  8080  machine  code. 
©Symbolic  debugger  included.  Supports  inter- 
rupt procedures,  CP/M  file  I/O  and  assembly 
language  interface.  Real  variables  can  be  BCD, 
software  floating  point,  or  AMD  951 1  hardware 
floating  point.  Includes  strings  enumerations 
and  record  data  types.  Manual  explains  BASIC- 
PASCAL  conversion.  Requires  32K    ,$250/$30 
i    APL/V80—  Concise  and  powerful  language  for 
©  application  software  development.   Complex 
programming  problems  are  reduced  to  simple 
expressions  in  APL.  Features  include  up  to  27K 
active  workspace,  shared  variables,  arrays  of 
up  to  8  dimensions,  disk  workspace  and  copy 
object  library.  The  system  also  supports  auxil- 
iary processors  for  interfacing  I/O  ports.  Re- 
quires 48K  CP/M  and  serial  APL  printing  termi- 
nal or  CRT  $500/$30 

Li  ALGOL-60  — Powerful   block-structured   lan- 

©guage  compiler  featuring  economical  run-time 

®  dynamic  allocation  of  memory.  Very  compact 

(24K  total  RAM)  system  implementing  almost 

all  Algol  60  report  features  plus  many  powerful 

extensions  including  string  handling  direct  disk 

address  I/O  etc $199/$20 

JCBASIC-2  Disk  Extended  BASIC-Non- 
®  interactive  BASIC  with  pseudo-code  compiler 
and  run-time  interpreter.  Supports  full  file  con- 
trol, chaining,  integer  and  extended  precision 
variables,  etc.  Versions  of  CRUN  for  CP/M  ver- 
sions 1.4  and  2.x  included  on  disk.   .$120/$15 

MICRO  FOCUS 

I  STANDARD  CIS  COBOL-ANSI  74  COBOL 
©  standard  compiler  fully  validated  by  U.S.  Navy 
tests  to  ANSI  level  1 .  Supports  many  features  to 
level  2  including  dynamic  loading  of  COBOL 
modules  and  a  full  ISAM  file  facility.  Also,  pro- 
gram segmentation,  interactive  debug  and 
powerful  interactive  extensions  to  support  pro- 
tected and  unprotected  CRT  screen  formatting 
from  COBOL  programs  used  with  any  dumb 

terminal $850/$50 

□  FORMS  2  — CRT  screen  editor.  Output  is 
©  COBOL  data  descriptions  for  copying  into  CIS 
COBOL  programs.  Automatically  creates  a 
query  and  update  program  of  indexed  files 
using  CRT  protected  and  unprotected  screen 
formats.  No  programming  experience  needed. 
Output  program  directly  compiled  by  STAN- 
DARD CIS  COBOL $200/$20 


[  ]  NEVADA  COBOL- Subset  of  ANSI-74.  Fea- 
®  tures  fast  compilation  and  execution  with  small 
object  modules.  Has  extended  arithmetic  with 
ji18  digit  accuracy  Extended  I/O  includes  ran- 
7^dom  access  files  and  sequential  files  of  both 
\0)r  fixed  and  variable  length  records,  and  interac- 
v*'     tive  accept/display  verbs.  Good  error  mes- 
\        sages  and  debugging  facilities  enhance  pro- 
gram development.   Requires  a  32K  CP/M 
system    $149/$25 

EIDOS  SYSTEMS 

KBASIC  — Microsoft  Disk  Extended  BASIC 
:;  version  4.51  integrated  with  KISS  Mufti-Keyed 
Index  Sequential  and  Direct  Access  file  man- 
agement as  9  additional  BASIC  commands. 
KISS  included  as  relocatable  modules  linkable 
to  FORTRAN-80.  COBOL-80,  and  BASIC 
COMPILER.  Specify  CP/M  version  1,4  or  2.x 
when  ordering.  Requires  48K  CP/M  S585/$45 
To  licensed  users  of  Microsoft  BASIC-80 
(MBASIC) $435/$45 


:  iXYBASIC  Interactive  Process  Control 
BASIC— Full  disk  BASIC  features  plus  unique 
commands  to  handle  byte  rotate  and  shift  and 
to  test  and  set  bits.  Available  in  several  ver- 
sions: 

Integer  ROM  squared $350/$25 

Integer  CP/M $350/825 

Extended  ROM  squared    $450/$25 

Extended  CP/M    $450/$25 

Extended  Disk  CP/M  $550/325 

Integer  CP/M  Run  Time  Compiler  .  $350/$25 
Extended  CP/M  Run  Time  Compiler $450/$25 

I  I  RECLAIM— A  utility  to  validate  media  under 
CP/M.  Program  tests  a  diskette  or  hard  disk 
surface  for  errors,  reserving  the  imperfections 
in  invisible  files,  and  permitting  continued 
usage  of  the  remainder.  Essential  for  any  hard 

disk.  Requires  CP/M  version  2 $80/$5 

[  BASIC  UTILITY  DISK- Consists  of:  (1) 
®  CRUNCH-14—  Compacting  utility  to  reduce 
the  size  and  increase  the  speed  of  programs  in 
Microsoft  BASIC  4.51,  BASIC-80  and  TRS-80 
BASIC.  (2)  DPFUN  — Double  precision  subrou- 
tines for  computing  nineteen  transcendental 
functions  including  square  root,  natural  log,  log 
base  10,  sine,  arc  sine,  hyperbolic  sine,  hyper- 
bolic arc  sine,  etc.  Furnished  in  source  on  dis- 
kette and  documentation $50/535 

I  STRING/80— Character  string  handling  plus 
routines  for  direct  CP/M  BDOS  calls  from 
FORTRAN  and  other  compatible  Microsoft  lan- 
guages. The  utility  library  contains  routines  that 
enable  programs  to  chain  to  a  COM  (tie,  retrieve 
command  line  parameters  and  search  file  direc- 
tories with  full  wild  card  facilities.  Supplied  as 
linkable  modules  in  Microsoft  format  $95/$20 
STRING/80  source  code  available 
separately-  5295/NA 

DTME  STRING  BIT-FORTRAN  character 
®  string  handling.  Routines  to  find,  fill,  pack, 
move,  separate,  concatenate  and  compare 
character  strings.  This  package  completely 
eliminates  the  problems  associated  with 
character  string  handling  in  FORTRAN 
Supplied  with  source $65/S15 

:  ]  VSORT—  Versatile  sort/merge  system  for  fixed 
®  length  records  with  fixed  or  variable  length 
fields.  VSORT  can  be  used  as  a  stand-alone 
package  or  loaded  and  called  as  a  subroutine 
from  CBASIC-2.  When  used  as  a  subroutine, 
VSORT  maximizes  the  use  of  buffer  space  by 
saving  the  TPA  on  disk  and  restoring  it  on  com- 
pletion of  sorting.  Records  may  be  up  to  255 
bytes  long  with  a  maximum  of  5  fields  Upper/ 
lower  case  translation  and  numeric  fields 
supported $175/$20 

I  CPM/374X  — Has  full  range  of  functions  to 
create  or  re-name  an  IBM  3741  volume,  display 
directory  information  and  edit  the  data  set  con- 
tents. Provides  full  file  transfer  facilities  be- 
tween 3741  volume  data  sets  and  CP/M 
files $195/$10 


CPAids* 

MASTER  TAX— Professional  tax  preparation 
©  program.  Prepares  schedules  A,  B,  C,  D,  E,  F, 
t  G,  R/RR  SE,  TC,  ES  and  forms  2106.  2119. 
2210.  3468,  3903,  2441,  4625,  4726,  4797, 
4972,  5695  and  6251.  Printing  can  be  on  readily 
available,  pre-printed  continuous  forms,  on 
overlays,  or  on  computer  generated,  IRS  ap- 
proved forms.  Maintains  client  history  files  and 
is  interactive  with  CPAids  GENERAL  LEDGER 

II  (see  below) $995/$30 

Annual  Update  Fee $350 

STANDARD  TAX  — As  above  for  schedules  A, 

t  B,  C,  D.  E,  G,  R/RP,  SE.  TC  and  forms  2106  and 

2441.  Also,  does  not  maintain  client  history 

files   $495/$30 

Annual  Update  Fee $175 

GENERAL  LEDGER  II- Designed  for  CPAs. 
t  Stores  complete  12  month  detailed  history  of 
transactions.  Generates  financial  statements, 
depreciation,  loan  amortizations,  journals,  trial 
balances,  statements  of  changes  in  financial 
position,  and  compilation  letters.  Includes 
payroll  system  with  automatic  posting  to  gen- 
eral ledger,  Prints  payroll  register,  W2's  and 
payroll  checks $450/$30 


Lifeboat  Associates,  1651  Third  Avenue,  N.Y.,  N.Y.  10028(212)  860-0300  Telex:220501 
Neu  in  der  Schweiz  Lifeboat  Associates  GmbH,  Aegeristr  35  6340  Baar  Telefon  042/31  2931 


Copyright  ©  1980  Lifeboat  Associates.  No  por- 
tion of  this  advertisement  may  be  reproduced 
without  prior  permission.  __ 


35/jsr 


rf*^ 


T/MAKER  —  Powerful  new  tool  for  preparing 
management  reports  with  tabular  data.  Makes 
financial  modeling  projects  easy.  Do  you  want  a 
weekly  profitability  report?  Set  up  the  table  and 
compute.  Just  change  the  sales  figures  for  next 
week  and  compute.  You  have  a  new  report! 
T/MAKER  includes  a  full  screen  editor  for 
setting  up  tables  which  pages  left,  right,  up 
and  down.  Compute  includes  standard  arith- 
metic, percents.  exponents,  common  tran- 
scendental functions,  averages,  maxima, 
minima,  projections,  etc.  Requires  48K  CP/M, 
CBASIC-2,  CRT  Terminal  with  addressable 
cursor  positioning $275/525 


[  I  BSTAM— Utility  to  link  one  computer  to  another 
®  also  equipped  with  BSTAM.  Allows  file  transfers 
at  full  data  speed  (no  conversion  to  hex),  with 
CRC  block  control  check  for  very  reliable  error 
detection  and  automatic  retry.  We  use  it!  It's 
great!  Full  wildcard  expansion  to  send  * .  COM. 
etc.  9600  baud  with  wire.  300  baud  with  phone 
connection.  Both  ends  need  one.  Standard  and 
®  versions  can  talk  to  one  another.  This 
software  requires  a  knowledge  of  assembler 
language  for  installation $150/$10 

!     BSTMS— Intelligent  terminal   program  for  . 

@»CP/M  systems.  Permits  communication  be-v\ 
tween  micros  and  mainframes.  Sends  charac-f* 
ter  data  files  to  remote  computers  under  com- 
plete control.  System  can  record  character  data 
sent  from  remote  computer  systems  and  data 
banks  Includes  programs  to  EXPAND  and 
COMPRESS  binary  files  for  transmission.  This 
software  requires  a  knowledge  of  assembler 
language  for  installation $200/S25 

[_:  WHATSIT?*  — Interactive  data-base  system 
using  associative  tags  to  retrieve  information  by 
subject.  Hashing  and  random  access  used  for 
fast  response.  Requires  CBASIC-2    S175/S25 

i    SELECTOR  III-C2— Data  Base  Processor  to 

J  create  and  maintain  multi-key  data  bases. 
Prints  formatted  sorted  reports  with  numerical 
summaries  or  mailing  labels.  Comes  with  sam- 
ple applications,  including  Sales  Activity,  Inven- 
tory, Payables,  Receivables.  Check  Register, 
and  Client/Patient  Appointments,  etc.  Requires 
CBASIC-2.  Supplied  in  source  .  .    .  S295/S20 

;  GLECTOR  — General  Ledger  option  to 
SELECTOR  HI-C2.  Interactive  system  provides 
for  customized  COA.  Unique  chart  of  transac- 
tion types  insure  proper  double  entry  book- 
keeping. Generates  balance  sheets,  P&L 
statements  and  journals.  Two  year  record  al- 
lows for  statement  of  changes  in  financial  posi- 
tion report.  Supplied  in  source.  Requires 
SELECTOR  III-C2.  CBASIC-2  and  56K 
system $350/$25 

DMA 

"!  CBS—  Configurable  Business  System  is  a 
t  comprehensive  set  of  programs  for  defining 
custom  data  files  and  application  systems  with- 
out using  a  programming  language  such  as 
BASIC,  FORTRAN,  etc.  Multiple  key  fields  for 
each  data  file  are  supported.  Set-up  program 
customizes  system  to  user's  CRT  and  printer. 
Provides  fast  and  easy  interactive  data  entry 
and  retrieval  with  transaction  processing. 
Report  generator  program  does  complex  calcu- 
lations with  stored  and  derived  data,  record 
selection  with  multiple  criteria,  and  custom  for- 
mats. Sample  inventory  and  mailing  list  sys- 
tems included  No  support  language 
required S395/S40 


MICROPRO 

□  SUPER-SORT  I  —  Sort,  merge,  extract  utility  as 
©  absolute  executable  program  or  linkable  mod- 
ule in  Microsoft  format.  Sorts  fixed  or  variable 
records  with  data  in  binary,  BCD.  Packed  Deci- 
mal. EBCDIC,  ASCII,  floating  &  fixed  point,  ex- 
ponential, field  justified,  etc.  Even  variable 
number  of  fields  per  record!    $225/$25 

,    SUPER-SORT  ||— Above  available  as  abso- 
®  lute  program  only S175/S25 

^SUPER-SORT  III  — As   II   without   SELECT/ 
G  EXCLUDE S125/S25 

[  DATASTAR— Professional  forms  control  entry 
©  and  display  system  for  key-to-disk  data  cap- 
ture. Menu  driven  with  built-in  learning  aids. 
Input  field  verification  by  length,  mask,  attribute 
(i.e.  uppercase,  lowercase,  numeric,  auto-dup, 
etc.).  Built-in  arithmetic  capabilities  using  keyed 
data,  constant  and  derived  values.  Visual  feed- 
back for  ease  of  forms  design.  Files  compatible 
with  CP/M-MP/M  supported  languages.  Re- 
quires 32K  CP/M    S350/S35 

_  WORD-STAR—  Menu  driven  visual  word  pro- 
©  cessing  system  for  use  with  standard  terminals. 
Text  formatting  performed  on  screen.  Facilities 
for  text  paginate,  page  number,  justify,  center 
and  underscore.  User  can  print  one  document 
while  simultaneously  editing  a  second.  Edit 
facilities  include  global  search  and  replace, 
Read/Write  to  other  text  files,  block  move.  etc. 
Requires  CRT  terminal  with  addressable  cursor 
positioning   S445/S40 

:     WORD-STAR-MAIL-MERGE- As  above  with 

©option  for  production  mailing  of  personalized 

documents  with  mail  lists  from  DATASTAR  or 

NAD $575/S40 

WORD-MASTER  Text  Editor— In  one  mode 
CD  has  superset  of  CP/M's  ED  commands  includ- 
ing global  searching  and  replacing,  forwards 
and  backwards  in  file  in  video  mode,  provides 
full  screen  editor  for  users  with  serial  address- 
able-cursor terminal    $145/825 


»*/ 


MAGIC  WAND—  Word  processing  system  with 
simple,  easy  to  use  full  screen  text  editor  and 
powerful  print  processor.  Editor  has  all  standard 
editing  functions  including  text  insert  and  de- 
lete, global  search  and  replace,  block  move  and 
library  files  for  boiler  plate  text.  Print  processor 
formatting  commands  include  automatic  mar- 
gins, pagination,  headings  8  footings,  centered 
and  justified  text.  Also  prints  with  true  propor- 
tional spacing,  merges  with  data  files  for  au- 
tomatic form  letters,  and  performs  run-time 
conditional  testing  for  varied  output.  Requires 
32K  CP/M  and  CRT  terminal  with  addressable 
cursor $395/$40 


[  ]  TEXTWRITER  III  —  Text  formatter  to  justify  and 
®  paginate  letters  and  other  documents.  Special 
features  include  insertion  of  text  during  execu- 
tion from  other  disk  files  or  console,  permitting 
recipe  documents  to  be  created  from  linked 
fragments  on  other  files.  Has  facilities  for  sorted 
index,  table  of  contents  and  footnote  insertions. 
Ideal  for  contracts,  manuals,  etc.  Now  compati- 
ble with  Electric  Pencil*  and  Word-Star  pre- 
pared files $125/$20 

DATEBOOK— Program  to  manage  time  just 
4  like  an  office  appointment  book  but  using  the 
qM  speed  and  memory  of  a  computer.  Keeps  track 
of  three  appointment  schedules  (three  dental 
chairs,  three  attorneys,  etc.)  at  once.  Appoint- 
ments consist  of  name,  reason  for  the  appoint- 
ment, the  date  and  time,  and  the  length  of  the 
appointment.  System  can  be  quickly  cus- 
tomized for  the  individual  user  Many  helpful 
features  for  making,  changing,  finding,  and  re- 
porting appointments.  Requires  48K  CP/M  and 
1B0K  bytes  diskette  storage.  Not  available  for 
Apple  CP/M $295/$25 

PEACHTREE  SOFTWARE* 

I'. General  accounting  software  for  small  busi- 

©  nesses.  Each  product  can  be  used  alone  or  with 

t  automatic  posting  to  the  general   ledger. 

Supplied  in  source  for  Microsoft  BASIC  4.51 . 

GENERAL  LEDGER    $530/840 

ACCOUNTS  PAYABLE     $530/$40 

ACCOUNTS  RECEIVABLE     $530/$40 

PAYROLL   S530/$40 

INVENTORY    $6607840 

l.  I  Other  application  products  supplied  in  source 
©  for  Microsoft  BASIC  4.51 . 

t  MAILING  ADDRESS    $530/840 

PROPERTY  MANAGEMENT    S925/S40 

GRAHAM-DORIAN  SOFTWARE 
SYSTEMS 

□  Comprehensive  accounting  software  written  in 
©  CBASIC-2  and  supplied  in  source  code.  Each 
®  software  package  can  be  used  as  a  stand- 
t  alone  system  or  integrated  with  the  General 
Ledger  for  automatic  posting  to  ledger  ac- 
counts. Requires  CBASIC-2. 

GENERAL  LEDGER    8805/840 

ACCOUNTS  PAYABLE     8805/840 

ACCOUNTS  RECEIVABLE     8805/840 

INVENTORY  SYSTEM    8555/840 

JOB  COSTING    $805/$40 

APARTMENT  MANAGEMENT     .  .     $805/540 
CASH  REGISTER    8805/840 

POSTMASTER  — A  comprehensive  package 
®  for  mail  list  maintenance  that  is  completely 
menu  driven.  Features  include  keyed  record 
extraction  and  label  production.  A  form  letter 
program  is  included  which  provides  neat  letters 
on  single  sheet  or  continuous  forms.  Includes 
NAD  file  translator.  Requires  CBASIC-2. 
S150/S20 

STRUCTURED  SYSTEMS  GROUP 

I  ..!  Complete  interactive  accounting  software  for 
t  business.  Each  product  can  be  used  stand- 
alone or  with  automatic  posting  to  the  general 
ledger.  Each  product  is  thoroughly  tested  and 
very  well  documented.  Each  product  requires 
CBASIC-2. 

GENERAL  LEDGER    8820/840 

ACCOUNTS  RECEIVABLE     8820/S40 

ACCOUNTS  PAYABLE     S820/S40 

PAYROLL  8820/840 

INVENTORY  CONTROL     8820/840 


NEWSLETTER 
FROM  LIFEBOAT 

LIFELINES  is  the  first  step  in  software  support  for 
the  serious  microcomputer  user  Each  issue 
reports  new  revisions  together  with  information  on 
the  purpose  for  each  such  release,  be  it  for  correction 
of  "bugs"  or  the  addition  of  features  and  facilities. 

Feature  Articles  !  New  Software  !  Product 
Comparisons  !  Info  on  CP/M  Users  Group  ! 

SUBSCRIPTION  INFORMATION: 

$18  for  twelve  issues:  U.S.,  Canada,  and  Mexico. 
$40  for  twelve  issues:  all  other  countries. 
S2.50  for  each  back  issue:  U.S.,  Canada,  and 
Mexico. 

$3.60  for  each  back  issue:  all  other  countries. 
Send  Check  to  LIFELINES,  1 651  Third  Avenue, 
New  York.  N.Y.  10028  or  use  your  VISA  or 
MASTERCARD-call  (212)  722-1700 


"ANALYST— Customized  data  entry  and  report- 
t  ing  system.  User  specifies  up  to  75  data  items 
per  record.  Interactive  data  entry,  retrieval, 
and  update  facility  makes  information 
management  easy.  Sophisticated  report 
generator  provides  customized  reports  using 
selected  records  with  multiple  level  break- 
points for  summarization.  Requires  a  disk  sort 
utility  such  as  QSORT.   SUPER-SORT  or 

VSORT  and  CBASIC-2 S250/815 

LETTERIGHT—  Program  to  create,  edit  and 
type  letters  or  other  documents.  Has  facilities  to 
enter,  display,  delete  and  move  text,  with  good 
video  screen  presentation.  Designed  to  inte- 
grate with  NAD  for  form  letter  mailings.  Re- 
quires CBASIC-2 S200/S25 

'NAD  Name  and  Address  selection  system  — 
Interactive  mail  list  creation  and  maintenance 
program  with  output  as  full  reports  with  refer- 
ence data  or  restricted  information  for  mail 
labels.  Transfer  system  for  extraction  and  trans- 
fer of  selected  records  to  create  new  files.  Re- 
quires CBASIC-2 $100/820 

□  QSORT—  Fast  sort/merge  program  for  files 
with  fixed  record  length,  variable  field  length 
information.  Up  to  five  ascending  or  descend- 
ing keys.  Full  back-up  of  input  files  created 
8100/820 

•   ••**•* 

CONDIMENTS 


HEAD  CLEANING   DISKETTE- Cleans  the 

drive  Read/Write  head  in  30  seconds.  Diskette 
absorbs  loose  oxide  particles,  fingerprints,  and 
other  foreign  particles  that  might  hinder  the  per- 
formance of  the  drive  head.  Lasts  at  least  3 
months  with  daily  use.  Specify  5"  or  8  ". 

Single  sided  820  each/855  for  3 

Double  sided   $25  each/865  for  3 

I  "DC  300  Data  Cartridges  Specify  450  XL  or 
300' certified.  Pack  of  5 8100 

Q  FLIPPY  DISK  KIT-  Template  and  instructions 
to  modify  single  sided  51  k  'diskettes  for  use  of 
second  side  in  single  sided  drives $12.50 

l._  FLOPPY  SAVER— Protection  for  center  holes 
for  5"  and  8"  floppy  disks.  Only  1  needed  per 
diskette.  Kit  contains  centering  post,  pressure 
tool  and  tough  7  mil  mylar  reinforcing  rings  for 
25  diskettes. 

5  ",  Kit    $14.95 

5".  Rings  only  $7.95 

8",  Kit   $16.95 

8",  Rings  only  88.95 

i  PASCAL  USER  MANUAL  AND  REPORT-  By 
Jensen  and  Wirth.  The  standard  textbook  on 
the  language.  Recommended  for  use  by 
Pascal/2,  Pascal/M  and  Pascal/MT  users  812 


THE  C  PROGRAMMING  LANGUAGE- By 

Kernighan  and  Ritchie.  The  standard  textbook 
on  the  language.  Recommended  for  use  by 
BDS  C,  tiny  C,  and  Whitesmiths  C  users  .  .$12 
STRUCTURED  MICROPROCESSOR  PRO- 
GRAMMING-By  the  authors  of  SMAL/80. 
Covers  structured  programming,  the  8080/ 
8085  instruction  set  and  the  SMAL/80  lan- 
guage   $20 

ACCOUNTS  PAYABLE  &  ACCOUNTS 
RECEIVABLE-CBASIC-By  Osborne/ 
McGraw-Hill   $20 

GENERAL        LEDGER-CBASIC-By 

Osborne/McGraw-Hill $20 

PAYROLL  WITH  COST  ACCOUIMTING- 
CBASIC-byOsborne/McGraw-Hill  $20 

*  *  *  *  *  * 
Hearty  Appetite. 

•  •      •       • 

*CP/M  and  MP/M  are  trademarks  of  Digital  Re- 
search. 

Z80  is  a  trademark  of  Zilog,  Inc. 
UNIX  is  a  trademark  of  Bell  Laboratories. 
WHATSIT?  is  a  trademark  of  Computer  Head- 
ware. 

Electric  Pencil  is  a  trademark  of  Michael 
Shrayer  Software. 

TRS-80  is  a  trademark  of  Tandy  Corp. 
Pascal/M  is  a  trademark  of  Sorcim. 
SoftCard  is  a  trademark  of  Microsoft. 
Apple  is  a  trademark  of  Apple  Computer. 
PASM.  PLINK,  BUG  and  MBUG  are  trademarks 
of  Phoenix  Software  Associates  Ltd. 
CPAids  is  a  trademark  of  Computer  Tax  Ser- 
vice, Inc. 

MAGIC  WAND  is  a  trademark  of  Small  Busi- 
ness Application,  Inc. 

Peachtree  Software  is  a  trademark  of  Retail 
Sciences,  Inc. 

jRecommended  system  configuration  consists 
of  48K  CP/M,  2  full  stze  disk  drives,  24  x  80  CRT 
and  132  column  printer. 

®  Modified  version  available  for  use  with  CP/M  as 
implemented  on  Heath  and  TRS-80  Model  I 
computers. 

©User  license  agreement  for  this  product  must 
be  signed  and  returned  to  Lifeboat  Associates 
before  shipment  may  be  made. 

©This  product  Includes/eXcludes  the  language 
®  manual  recommended  in  Condiments. 

©Serial  number  of  CP/M  system  must  be 
supplied  with  orders. 

©  Requires  Z80  CPU. 


Ordering  Information 


MEDIA  FORMAT  ORDERING  CODES 
When  ordering,  please  specify  format  code. 


LIFEBOAT  ASSOCIATES  MEDIA  FORMATS  LIST.  Diskette,  cartridge  disk  and  cartridge  tape 
format  codes  to  be  specified  when  ordering  software  for  listed  computer  or  disk  systems.  All 
software  products  have  specific  requirements  in  terms  of  hardware  or  software  support,  such  as 
MPU  type,  memory  size,  support  operating  system  or  language. 


Computer  system 


Format  Code 
See  MITS  3200 


Altair  8800  Disk 

Altos     

Apple  +  SoftCard  l3Sector   RG 

Apple   -  SoftCard  16  Sector RR 

AVL  Eagle    RB 

BASF  System  7100    RD 

Slackbawk  Single  Densily     Q3 

Blackhawk  Micropolis  Mod  II         .  Q2 

CDS  Versatile  3B    Q1 

CDS  Versatile  4     Q2 

COMPAL-80     Q2 

Cromemco  System  3    A1  * 

Cromemco  Z2D     R6 

CSSN  BACKUP  (tape)    T1  # 

Delta    AT 

Digi-Log  Microterm  II   RD 

Digital  Microsystems     A1* 

Discus   , .  .See  Morrow  Discus 

Durango  F-85    RL 

Dynabyte  DB8/2   Rl 

Dynabyle  DBS/4    A1* 

Exidy  Sorcerer   ■   Lifeboai  CP/M    Q2 
Exidy  Sorcerer   -  Exidy  CP/M       .Q4 

Heath  H8   ■  H17/H27     P4 

Heath  HB9  *  Lifeboat  CP/M    P4 

Heath  H89    ■  Magnolia  CP/M     .    ,P7 
Helios  II    .See  Processor  Technology 

Horizon .See  North  Star 

iCOM  241 1  Micro  Floppy     R3 

ICOM3712  A1 

iCOM  3812   A1* 

Prices  reflect  distribution  on  8" 
single  density  diskettes.  If  a 
format  is  requested  which 
requires  additional  diskettes,  a 
surcharge  of  $8.  per  additional 
diskette  will  be  added. 
Prices  FO.B.  New  York. 
Shipping,  handling  and  C.O.D. 
charges  extra. 

Manual  cost  applicable  against 
price  of  subsequent  software 
purchase. 

The  sale  of  each  proprietary 
software  package  conveys  a 
license  for  use  on  one 
system  only. 


WS4 


Computer  systei 

(COM4511  5440  Cartridge 

CP/M  1.4      D1# 

ICOM4511  5440  Cartridge 

CP/M  2  2    D2# 

IMS  5000   RA 

IMS  8000    A1" 

IMSAI  VDP-40       R4" 

IMSAI  VDP-42     R4" 

IMSAI  VDP-44 R5" 

IMSAI  VDP-80   A1" 

Intecolor See  ISC  Intecolor 

Intel  MDS  Single  Density     A2 

Intel  MDS  Double  Density A5 

Intertec  SuperBrain  DOS  0.1     R7 

Intertec  SuperBrain  DOS  0  5-2.X    RJ 

Intertec  SuperBrain  DOS  3.X RK 

ISC  Intecolor  8063/8360/8963       ,A1 

Kontron  PSI-80   RF 

Meca5'it  ' P6 

Micromation 

(Except  TRS-80  below]    AT 

Micropolis  Mod  I ,Q1 

Micropolis  Mod  II     02 

MITS  3200/3202 Bl 

Morrow  Discus     AT 

Mostek     Al 

MSD  5V RC 

North  Star  Single  Density    Pi 

North  Star  Double/Quad    P2 

Nylac  Single  Density    Q3 

Nylac  Micropolis  Mod   II     Q2 

Ohio  Scientific  C3 A3 

Onyx  C8001 T2# 

Perlec  PCC  2000    A1" 

Processor  Technology  Helios  II        B2 

Quay  500     RO 

Quay  520  RP 

RAIR  Single  Density     R9 

*  Single-Side  Single-Denstty  disks 
are  supplied  for  use  with  Double- 
Density  and  Double-Side  8  '  soft 
sector  format  systems. 

*"  IMSAI  formats  are  single  densily 
with  directory  olfset  of  zero. 

#  A  media  surcharge  of  S25  for  or- 
ders on  tape  formats  T1  and  T2  and 
of  S100  for  orders  on  disk  formats 
D1  and  D2  will  be  added. 
The  list  ol  available  formats  is  sub- 
ject to  change  without  notice.  In 
case  of  uncertainty,  call  to  confirm 
the  format  code  for  any  particular 
equipment. 


Format  Code  Computer  syster 


Form 


I  Code 


See  Exidy  Sorcerer 

At 

See  Intertec 


RAIR  Double  Densiiy 
Research  Machines  8 
Research  Machines  5' 

REX     

Sanco  7000  5'V    .  .  . 
SD  Systems  8" 
SD  Systems  51 
Sorcerer    .... 
Space  byte    . 
SuperBrain     .  . 

Tarbell    .  .     A1 

TEI5Vi"    R3 

TEI  8"    A1 

Thinkertoys     .       See  Morrow  Discus 

TRS-80  Model  I  3V«"     R2 

TRS-80  Model  I  ■  FEC  Freedom  RN 
TRS-80  Model  I    ■  Micromation 

Omikron  5'a      RM 
OmikronS  A1 

Shuffleboard  8   A1 

TRS-80  Model  II    A1' 

VDP-40/42/44/80     See  fMSAI 

Vector  Graphic    Q2 

Vector  MZ     Q2 

Versatile See  CDS  Versatile 

Vista  V80  5'-a "  Single  Density PS 

Vista  V200  SW  Double  Density  .PS 
Zenith  Z89  -  Lifeboat  CP/M  .  P4 
Zenith  Z89  •  Magnolia  CP/M         P7 


TRS-80  Model  I 
TRS-80  Model  I 
TRS-80  Model  I 


A4* 


1 


tat  Associates 

TIE 

SOFTWARE 

JtJPEi- 

MAMET 


Lifeboat  Associates 

1651  Third  Avenue,  N.Y,  N.Y.  10028 
(212)860-0300 


Product  Review 


The  Altos  ACS8000 
Single-Board  Computer 


Mark  Dahmke 

1515  Superior  St,  Apt  15 

Lincoln  NE  68521 


Altos  Computer  Systems  of  San 
Jose,  California,  manufactures  a 
series  of  powerful  Z80-based  com- 
puters aimed  mainly  at  the  small- 
business  and  scientific-laboratory 
markets.  The  company  offers  a  wide 
variety  of  models  —  from  one  8-inch, 
single-density,  Shugart  floppy-disk 
drive  with  32  K  bytes  of  main 
memory  to  four  double-density, 
8-inch  floppy-disk  drives,  and  a  hard- 
disk  subsystem  with  as  much  as  58 
megabytes  of  on-line  storage. 

Hardware  Design 

The  ACS8000  series  are  all  single- 
circuit-card  computers  based  on  a 
Z80A  microprocessor  running  at 
4  MHz.  All  systems  come  with  at 
least  32  K  bytes  of  4116  dynamic 
memory  devices.  This  is  expandable 
to  64  K  bytes  on  two  versions  of  the 
ACS8000,  and  to  208  K  bytes  on  the 
third  version. 

The  system  also  comes  with  a  2708 
EPROM  (erasable  programmable 
read-only  memory)  that  contains  the 
ALTOS-E  monitor  program.  The 
2708  is  active  until  CP/M  is  boot- 
loaded:  it  is  then  disabled  and  disap- 
pears so  the  entire  memory-address 
space  is  available  as  programmable 
memory.  This  technique  is  widely 
used  and  is  referred  to  as  "phantom 
read-only  memory." 


About  the  Author 

Mark  Dahmke  is  a  a  consulting  editor  for 
BYTE  Publications  and  also  operates  a  com- 
puter consulting  business.  He  has  been  in- 
volved with  computers  since  1974  and  does  a 
great  deal  of  systems  hardware  and  software 
design.  His  interests  include  writing, 
photography,  voice  synthesis,  and  computer 
graphics. 


158       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Serial  Ports 

Even  the  smallest  Altos  system 
comes  with  a  dual-channel,  serial  I/O 
(input /output)  device.  One  channel  is 
used  for  the  system  console,  and  the 
other  is  set  up  to  drive  a  printer  or 
another  device,  such  as  a  modem. 
The  console  channel  is  preset  by  the 
ALTOS-E  monitor  firmware  to  9600 
bps,  with  1  start  bit,  1  stop  bit,  8  data 
bits,  and  no  parity.  It  runs  in  full- 
duplex  (ie:  simultaneous-bidirection- 
al) mode.  The  9600  bps  data  rate  of 
the  console  is  not  alterable,  but  the 
printer  characteristics  can  be  changed 
after  the  system  is  booted  up. 

Parallel  Ports 

All  Altos  computers  come  with  at 
least  two  user-defined  parallel  ports. 
There  are  actually  two  Z80  PIO 
(parallel  input/output)  devices,  each 
with  two  ports,  but  one  is  used  to 


control  disk  operations.  The  user- 
definable  ports  are  accessible  through 
an  external  connector  that  may  be 
connected  to  a  printer,  an  EPROM 
programmer,  or  a  parallel-input 
keyboard.  Both  ports  are  fully  pro- 
grammable. 

The  Counter-Timer  Circuit 

The  Z80  CTC  (counter-timer  cir- 
cuit) is  a  programmable  counter- 
timer  that  has  four  independent  chan- 
nels. Three  of  the  channels  (addresses 
0  thru  2)  are  used  by  the  system  to  set 
console  and  printer  data  rates  and 
disk-head  load-delay  times.  The 
fourth  channel  is  available  to  the  user 
and  can  be  programmed  as  an  inter- 
val timer  or  real-time  clock. 

The  Floppy-Disk  Controller 

The  Altos  single-density  model 
uses    the    Western    Digital    1771-1 


A  Visit  to  Altos 

Altos  computers  have  acquired 
quite  a  reputation  for  reliability  — 
it's  the  sort  of  thing  you  hear  by 
word-of-mouth  in  this  industry. 
To  find  out  more,  I  paid  a  visit  to 
Altos  recently  at  the  invitation  of 
Dr  Roger  Vass,  the  Vice-President 
of  Marketing. 

Roger  described  the  extensive 
quality-control  procedures  used  at 
Altos,  which  include  several  bum- 
in  tests  of  individual  components 
and  complete  systems  in  its 
testing  ovens.  Another  reason  for 
the  low  failure  rate  of  the  com- 
puters (eg:  less  than  1%  are  re- 
turned  to    the   plant   because   of 


defects)  is  that  Altos  computers  use 
a  single  printed-circuit  board  for 
the  entire  computer,  thus 
eliminating  many  potential  inter- 
connection problems. 

Interestingly,  Altos  sells  more 
computers  (ie:  about  55%  at  pre- 
sent) overseas  than  it  does 
domestically,  due  in  part  to  the 
company's  vigorous  marketing  ac- 
tivity in  Europe.  Roger  sees  the 
European  market  as  having  great 
potential  for  American  personal- 
computer  companies.  Certainly, 
the  growth  of  the  number  of 
publications  and  public  interest  at 
overseas  trade  shows  confirms 
this.  .  .CM 


For  your  Horizon — 


North  Star 
Horizon  Computer 
with  5"  Floppy  Disks 


Display 
Terminals 


Up  To  Four 
Hard  Disks 


Up  To  Four  8 ' 
Floppy  Disks 


More  power,  work,  flexibility! 

JOEDOS™ — Jointly  Operate  Everything  Disk  Operating 

System.  Switch  from  North  Star™  BASIC  to  CP/M™  and  back 
again  with  a  simple  command.  Floating  point  and  standard 
8, 10, 12,  and  14  digit  precisions  of  North  Star  BASIC,  as  well 
as  Digital  Research's  CP/M  all  on  the  same  hard  disk  unit. 

Designed  to  operate  with  the  DISCUS  M26™  26.5  mega- 
byte (formatted)  Winchester-technology  hard  disk  unit  and 
North  Star's  Micro  Disk  System,  JOEDOS  brings  you  large 
mainframe  performance  at  microcomputer  cost  and  reliability. 
CP/M  disk  activity  is  amazingly  quick  through  JOEDOS;  ac- 
cess to  North  Star  BASIC  programs  and  files  is  unbelievable! 

Speed  and  enormous  storage  capacity  (as  much  as  106 
megabytes)  are  only  the  beginning.  Through  JOEDOS,  each 
hard  disk  unit  may  appear  to  be  one  drive  or  many  different 
"drives"  (as  many  as  147  double  density  180K  North  Star 
5Va"  drive-size  segments).  As  many  as  seven  of  these  seg- 
mented "drives"  may  be  addressed  at  any  particular  time. 
Segment  size,  file  size  and  directory  size  are  variable 
according  to  user's  requirements.  Maximum  file  size  is  16 
megabytes,  while  the  maximum  directory  size  for  each  seg- 
ment is  8,160  entries. 

JOEDOS  —  Micro  Mike's  hard  disk  operating  system. 
Requires  DISCUS  M26  hard  disk  unit  and  controller  and 
North  Star  Micro  Disk  System  for  operation.  Includes  CP/M. 
JOEDOS  and  manual  $495 


JOESHARE™  — North  Star  HorizonT7DISCUS  Hard  Disk 

Timesharing  System.  Micro  Mike's  popular  interrupt-driven, 
bank  switching  timesharing  for  North  Star  Horizon  com- 
puter is  now  available  with  all  the  features  of  JOEDOS  hard 
disk  operating  system.  JOESHARE  allows  multiple  users 
to  access  as  many  as  four  26.5  megabyte  hard  disk  units, 
simultaneously  operating  programs  through  North  Star  DOS 
or  through  CP/M. 

JOESHARE  — Micro  Mike's  North  Star  Horizon  time- 
sharing/DISCUS  hard  disk  operating  system.  Requires  North 
Star  Horizon  and  DISCUS  M26  hard  disk  unit  for  operation. 
Includes  CP/M. 
JOESHARE  and  manual  $750 


JOEDOS,  JOESHARE.  HDSHARE.  5.2SHARE  and  DOSCHG  are  registered  trademarks  of 

Micro  Mikes,  Incorporated 

North  Star  and  Horizon  are  registered  trademarks  ot  North  Star  Computers.  Inc. 

DISCUS  and  M26  are  registered  trademarks  of  Morrow  Designs,  Inc. 

CP/M  is  a  registered  trademark  of  Digital  Research,  Inc. 

Copyright  1980  Micro  Mike's,  Inc.  All  rights  reserved  worldwide 

Circle  96  on  Inquiry  card. 


HDSHARE™  —  North  Star  Horizon/North  Star  Hard  Disk  Time- 
sharing System.  A  version  of  JOESHARE  with  all  of  the  fea- 
tures of  JOEDOS  using  the  North  Star  hard  disk.  HDSHARE 
allows  multiple  users  to  access  as  many  as  four  18  mega- 
byte North  Star  hard  disk  units,  simultaneously  operating  pro- 
grams through  North  Star  DOS  or  through  CP/M. 

HDSHARE  — Micro  Mike's  North  Star  Horizon  time- 
sharing/North Star  hard  disk  operating  system.  Requires 
North  Star  Horizon  and  North  Star  hard  disk  system  for  oper- 
ation. Includes  CP/M. 
HDSHARE  and  manual  $750 

5.2SHARE™  — North  Star  Horizon/ Floppy  Disk  Timesharing 
System.  Micro  Mike's  floppy  disk  timesharing  system  has 
some  new  enhancements.  5.2SHARE  now  supports  8, 10, 12, 
and  14  digit  floating  point  and  standard  North  Star  BASIC 
with  as  many  as  four  DISCUS  8"  drives,  operating  in  conjunc- 
tion with  the  Horizon's  5V*"  drives  to  provide  in  excess  of  5 
megabytes  of  external  storage. 

5.2SHARE  —  Micro  Mike's  interrupt-driven,  bank  switch- 
ing timesharing  for  the  North  Star  Horizon  computer.  Includes 
8"  drive  software  interface.  For  double  density  or  quad 
capacity  systems  only. 
5.2SHARE  and  manual  $395 

DOSCHG™  —  Micro  Mike's  8"  drive  interface  to  North  Star 
DOS  and  BASIC.  Requires  North  Star  Micro  Disk  System  and 
DISCUS  8"  drives  and  controller  for  operation. 
DOSCHG  and  manual  $150 


Program  operation  manuals  are  available  for  preview  before, 
software  purchase. 

Program  Operation  Manuals  for  each  program  $25 

(Applies  toward  purchase  of  program) 

Programs  are  available  in  double  density/quad  capacity 
format  only.  Prices  are  subject  to  change  without  notice. 

Contact  your  North  Star  dealer  or  Micro  Mike's. 
Send  $1  for  descriptive  literature. 


JUAAifce 


Micro  Mike's,  Inc. 


o 


905  South  Buchanan      Amarillo,  Texas  79101  USA     Telephone:  806/372-3633 

making  technology  uncomplicated . . .  for  People 


BYTE  November  1980 


159 


Could  you 
pass  this 

Red  Cross 
swimming  test? 

SWIM: 

1.  Breaststroke  — 100  Yds. 

2.  Sidestroke-lOOYds. 

3.  Crawl  stroke  - 100  Yds. 

4.  Back  crawl -50  Yds. 

5.  On  back  (legs  only)  -  50  Yds. 

6.  Turns  (on  front,  back,  side). 

7.  Surface  dive— underwater  swim— 20  Ft. 

8.  Disrobe— float  with  clothes  — 5  mins. 

9.  Long  shallow  dive. 
10.  Running  front  dive. 
11. 10-minute  swim. 

Anybody  who's  taken  a  Red  Cross  swim 
course  knows  how  tough  it  can  be. 

There's  a  good  reason. 

We  believe  drowning  is  a  serious 
business. 

Last  year  alone,  we  taught  2,589,203 
Americans  not  to  drown— in  the  seven  dif- 
ferent swim  courses  we  offer  all  across  the 
country.  (Incidentally,  most  of  the  teaching 
—as  with  almost  everything  American  Red 
Cross  does— is  done  by  dedicated  vol- 
unteers.) 

A  good  many  of  the  youngsters  not 
only  are  learning  to  keep  themselves  safe. 
Thousands  upon  thousands  of  them  are 
learning  to  become  lifesavers. 

And  the  life  they  save— it  just  might 
be  your  own. 


~.» 


Peter  Vaeth-Photography 


Red  Cross 
counting 
on  you. 


Photo  1:  Front  view  of  the  Altos  ACS  8000-2  computer,  which  has  64  K  bytes  of 
memory  and  two  dual-density,  single-sided  disk  drives. 


Photo  2:  Interior  view  of  the  ACS  8000-2,  which  is,  as  are  all  the  Altos  models,  a  single- 
board,  Z80-based  computer. 


floppy-disk  controller/formatter 
device  to  manage  up  to  four  8-inch 
drives.  The  1771-1  is  directly  in- 
tegrated into  the  single-board  design 
of  the  Altos. 

The  double-density  version  re- 
quires some  additional  control  cir- 
cuitry and  uses  the  1791-1  device; 


thus  the  board  supporting  doub  e- 
density  disks  is  slightly  larger.  All 
versions  of  the  ACS8000  are  available 
with  either  single-sided  or  double- 
sided  Shugart  drives. 

All  boards  have  a  fifty-pin  expan- 
sion connector  that  allows  the  user  to 
access  all  Z80  address,  data,  and  con- 


160        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  97  on  Inquiry  card. 


Whatever 
happened  to 
eenie,  meenie, 
miney,  mo? 


I  could  be 
another 
.  Solomon . . 


'This  may  put 
the  Godfather 
jjut  of business. 

Ufonly 
my  heart 
would  stop\ 

gracing. 


It  must  use 

Bayesian, 

weighted  factor 

^analysis,  and. . . 


Maybe  this' 1 1 
help  me  choose 
a  career. . 


I  could 
use  it  to 
select  my  staff. 


Would  I 
rather  have 
Winston's  millions ' 
or  Billy  Joe's 
love? 


Hmmmm . . . 

could  be 

my  ticket 

to  the  Boardroom . 


Should  I 

buy  stock 

or  commodities 

in  this  economy? 


/      / 


V        ^      i 


u 


IM 

When  Decision  Master  speaks  everybody  listens. 


Let's  face  it.  We  all  have  to  make  decisions.  Decisions  that  can  change  our  lives.  Decisions  th 
make  us  happy  or  unhappy.  Decisions  that  could  win  us  fame  or  fortune.  Now.  DecisionMusl 
can  help  you  make  the  best  decisions  of  your  life. 

Use  Bayesian  theory  to  peer  into  the  future  ...even  if  you've  never  heard  of  the  Bayes'  Rule 
Do  a  complete  weighted  factor  analysis. .  .without  knowing  what  one  is.  Use  discounted 
cash  How  to  compare  investment  alternatives  without  bothering  with  present  value 
tables.  These  and  other  sophisticated  theories  that  were  once  the  exclusive  domain  of 
professors  and  top  business  executives  are  built  into  DeeisionMaster's  algorithms. . . 
so  you  can  use  them  at  the  touch  of  a  key! 

DecisionMasteriseasytou.se.  It  features: 

•  A  fully  documented  manual  developed  by  an  authority  in  the  field. 

•  A  unique  program-controlled  cross  reference  system. 


You'll  use  DecisionMaster  in  hundreds  of  routine  decisions 
as  well  as  more  important  ones  such  as*  Buying  a  hotise 
•  Changing  jobs*  Selecting  investment*  Evaluating  insur- 
ance policies'  Expanding  product  lines'  Leasing  vs. 
purchasing. 

If  you  buy  only  one  computer  program  this  year, 
make  it  DecisionMaster.  And  when  it  speaks. 
listen. 


5p 


NOW  YOU'RE 
TALKING! 


THE 
SOURCE 


MICRONET 


CBBS: 

COMPUTER 

BULLETIN 

BOARD 

SYSTEM 


YOUR 

COMPUTER 

WITH 

BSTMS 


THE 

ASYNCHRONOUS 
DIAL-UP 


YOUR 
.      CHOICE 


ABBS: 

APPLE 

BULLETIN 

BOARD 

SYSTEM 


"BSTMS" 

Byrom  Software  Terminal  Monitor  System 

The  missing  link  between  your  CP/M 
system  and  remote  computers  everywhere! 

■  talks  to  most  dial-up  remote  computers. 

■  stores  data  from  remote  computers  in  CP/M  files. 

■  copies  data  to  CP/M  list  device  if  desired. 

■  transmits  files  to  the  remote  computer. 

■  it  will  even  "talk"  to  another  CP/M  console. 

■  features  EXPAND  and  COMPRESS  programs 
to  translate  binary  files  into  character  files  and 
vice  versa. 

■  uses  the  same  simple  installation  procedure  as 
BSTAM. 

This  system  is  great  for  recording  data  from  remote 
time-sharing  systems!  It  makes  it  possible  to  do 
local  processing  of  data  on  a  micro  and  then 
transmit  it  to  the  mainframe. 
This  software  requires  a  knowledge  of  assembler 
language  for  installation. 

5>^UU  per  computer. 
$^!b  for  manual  alone. 

Prices  reflect  distribution  on  0"  single  density  diskettes. 
If  a  formal  is  requested  which  requires  additional  diskettes, 
a  surcharge  of  S8    per  additional  diskette  will  be  added. 

Apple  is  a  trademark  of  Apple  Computer. 
MicroNET  is  a  trademark  of  CompuServ. 
CP/M  is  a  trademark  of  Digital  Research. 

Lifeboat  Associates 

1651  Third  Avenue,  New  York,  N.Y.  10028 
(212)  860-0300  Telex:  220501 


trol  lines.  Aitos  does  not  use  the  conL 
nector  for  expansion  purposes 
because  of  its  single-board 
philosophy,  but  it  is  there  for  the 
special  needs  of  the  users. 

Optional  Components 

The  ACS8000  has  provisions  for 
some  special  components  that  are  op- 
tional on  all  of  the  standard  systems. 
The  Z80  DMA  (direct  memory  ac- 
cess) controller  is  a  very  sophisticated 
device  that  can  be  programmed  to 
perform  block  data  transfers  from 
memory  to  memory,  from  memory  to 
an  I/O  port,  or  vice  versa.  The  device 
can  also  be  programmed  to  search  for 
a  byte  within  a  block,  with  or 
without  transfer  of  the  block.  The 
device  has  one  DMA  channel  that  can 
be  set  up  to  work  in  four  different 
modes: 


•  single-byte  mode  —  in  which  eac 
memory  access  operates  on  a  single 
byte  of  data 

•  burst  mode  —  in  which  the  device 
keeps  control  of  the  bus  for  as  long  as 
data  is  continuously  ready 

•  continuous  mode  —  in  which  the 
device  retains  bus  control  for  the  en- 
tire operation 

•  transparent  mode  —  in  which  the 
device  operates  only  during  memory 
refresh  time  so  it  does  not  slow  down 
the  processor 

I  was  informed  by  Altos  that, 
although  the  Z80  DMA  device  can  be 
plugged  into  the  system,  there  is  no 
way  to  use  it  under  CP/M.  The 
OASIS  multiuser  operating  system  is 
set  up  to  use  DMA  to  access  a  disk, 
however. 

The  Advanced  Micro  Devices 
Am9511  arithmetic  processor  is 
another  optional  device  that  provides 
fixed  and  floating-point  arithmetic 
and  floating-point  trigonometric  and 
mathematical  operations.  It  may  be 
used  to  speed  up  computational 
capabilities  of  the  system.  All  com- 
mands and  data  transfers  take  place 
on  an  8-bit,  bidirectional  data  bus. 
Transfers  to  and  from  the  9511  may 
be  handled  by  the  Z80  under  program 
control  (with  IN  and  OUT  instruc- 
tions) or  through  the  Z80  DMA 
device.  The  Am9511  can  be  program- 
med to  generate  interrupts  upon  com- 
pletion of  arithmetic  functions. 

Altos   also   plans   to   introduce  a 

2708/2716  EPROM  programmer  that 

will  plug  into  the  parallel-port  con- 

Text  continued  on  page  166 


162       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


SAVE 


APPLE®ond  TRS-80<§ 


"APEX"  NEW  DISK  OPERATING 
SYSTEM  FOR  THE  APPLE® 

Fully  Professional  DOS  for  the  Apple  II.  The  result  of  two  years  of 
exfensive  development,  APEX  provides  o  complete  program  development 
and  file  management  system.  A  comprehensive  command  set  allows  the 
user  to  perform  almost  any  imaginable  disk  operation. 

•  Command  structure  similar  to  CPM®  and  main  frame  systems. 
Contains  20  command  words. 

•  Easy  program  interface.  Simple  communications. 

•  Capable  of  handling  5  inch,  8  inch,  ond  hard  disks. 

•  Safety  features  to  protect  against  accidental  data  loss.  Features 
include  backup  files,  directory,  read  after-wrire  &  limit  checks. 

•  4  times  faster  than  CPM®. 

•  Aufo  default  structure  eliminates  tedious  typing  by  automatically 
setting  up  command  strings,  file  names,  etc. 

•  Functional  on  both  single  ond  multi-drive  systems. 

•  Device  handler  structure  for  interfacing  peripherals. 

The  APEX  package  includes  all  of  the  tools  for  a  complete  assembly 
language  development  system,  high  speed  two  pass  resident  assembler 
and  a  powerful  macro  editor. 

The  complete  APEX  package  with  operating  system,  assembler,  editor 
and  manuals,  also  includes  utilities  to  maintain  files. 


APEX 

$99 


RELATED  SOFTWARE 
XPLO  >79 

FOCAL™  *59 


SAVE  ON  APPLE  II  16K 


FREE  MEMORY  UPGRADE  KIT 
TO  46K  WITH  PURCHASE  OF 
APPLE  II  16K 

(MTI  ONLY) 


M195 


INTRODUCTORY  OFFER 

SAVE  $300  TRS-80  Graphics 
List  $949 


OKIDATA 
IfMICROLINE  60 


OUR  PRICE 


>649 


1-60 
SoffCard 

»399 

The  Source $100 

Applesoftware. .  $29.95 


MTI  APPLE  8"  DISK  SYSTEM 

*One  SA800R  Floppy 

*1  Drive  Chassis  &  Power  Supply 

•Controller,  Coble  ond  DOS 


M439 


Drives  for  any  Microcomputer 

Does  not  include  power  supply  &  cabinet. 


PertecFD200 $282 

Shugart  SA400  $279 

MPIB51  $279 

MPID91  $399 


FD250 $059 

SA800/601 $479 

D52  $349 

D92  $525 


Printers 


f  fc  !^%*  9  '■■■^   .^fc.  4»    A  ^b. 


Cenrronic  779 $1 .069 

Dose  2 $649 

Centronics  737 $939 

Centronics  702-9 $1 ,995 

Anadex9501 $1,549 

Malibu $2,395 

spinwriter $2,549  Daisy  Wheel . 


$1779 


A  new  enhanced  NEWDOS  for  the  TRS-80. 

The  most  powerful  Disk  Operating  System  for  the  TRS-80, 
designed  for  the  sophisticated  user  and  professional  program- 
mer who  demands  the  ultimate. 

NEWDOS/80  is  the  planned  upgrade  from  NEWDOS  2.1. 
Some  of  the  features  are.- 

•  New  BASIC  commands  for  files  with  variable  record 
lengths  up  to  4095. 

•  Mix  or  march  drives.  Use  05,  40  or  80  track  5"  disk 
drives  or  8"  disk  drives,  or  combo. 

•  Security  boor-up  for  BASIC  or  machine  code  applica- 
tion programs. 

•  New  editing  commands. 

•  Enhanced  RENUMber  that  allows  relocation. 

•  Command  chaining. 

•  Device  handling  for  routing  to  display  and  printer 
simultaneously. 

•  DFG  function;  striking  of  D,  F  and  G  keys  allows  user  to 
enter  a  mini-DOS  without  disturbing  program. 

•  Compatible  with  NEWDOS  &  TR5DOS. 

•  Machine  language  Superzap/60  2.1      JAJIQ 
utilities  and  enhanced  debug  and  copy.     I  ^T  r 


Disk  Drive  Sale! 

Complete  with  power  supply 
and  chassis. 

TF-3  Shugarr  SA400 $339 

Pertec  FD200,  40  track $379 

•TF  5  MPI  B5 1 ,  40  track $369 

•TF  7  Micropolis  77  track  $579 

TDH-1  Dual  Sided  drive 

35  track $499 

TF-3M  Drive  Sys  2  Shugart  . . .  $699 


Disk  Expansion  System 

•2  Shugarr 

SA400  TF-3 $678 

•1  Two-Drive  Cable $  26 

•  1  Expansion 

Interface  32K $459 

•1  35-rrack  DOS+ $  99 

TOTAL  LIST  PRICE $1262 

SPECIAL 

PRICE 

ONLY  

Same  as  obove  but 
includes  TRS-60® 
Level  II 


11,149 


M949 


NEWDOS+ 

40  track $110 

NEWDOS+ 

35  track $  99 

Microconductor, 
Data  Base  Mgr. 

Modi $249 

Mod  II $399 

AJA  Business  Pkg $359 

The  Source $100 

Basic  Compiler $1 95 

Mail  List $60 

Electric  pencil $1 50 


NEW 


TF-8  80  TRACK  DISK  DRIVE 

Double  Your  Capacity 

TF-9  DUAL  80  TRACK  DISK  DRIVE 

Quadruple  Your  Capacity 


J639 
*789 


8"  Floppy  Disk  Drive  System 

for  Model  I 

•  OneSA801  Floppy 

•  NEWDOS  80 

•  Cable  b  Adapter 


«x 


/VIICROCO/VIPUrER 

TECHNOLOGY 
INCORPORATED 


$1095 


3304  West  MacArthur 

Santa  Ana,  CA  92704 

(714)  979-9923 


TELEX       Order  Desk  Only 
678-401     800-854-7222 
TAD  IRIN 


ALL  PRICES  CASH 

DISCOUNTED 

FREIGHT  FOB/FACTORY 

ASK  FOR  OUR 
FREE  CATALOGUE 


4401  South  Tamarac  Parkway 

Denver,  CO  90237 

(303)741-1778 


Circle  98  for  MTI 


Circle  99  for  Apparat 


BYTE  November  1980        163 


CP/M    Features    With    Altos 
Systems 

All  the  standard  CP/M  system 
utilities  are  available: 

•  ED:  context  (text)  editor. 

•  ASM:  CP/M  standard  (no- 
frills)  8080  assembler. 

•  LOAD:  loader,  converts 
hexadecimal-ASCII  format  files 
to  absolute  machine-code  files. 

•  DDT:  CP/M  Dynamic  Debug- 
ging Tool. 

•  PIP:  Peripheral  Interchange 
Program  that  is  used  to  move 
and  copy  disk  files  from  disk  to 
disk  and  can  also  be  used  to 
copy  files  from  disk  to  printer 
or  from  a  reader  device  to  disk. 

•  SYSGEN:  CP/M  utility  that 
generates  new  system  disks. 

•  DUMP:  prints  the  contents  of  a 
file  on  the  display  in  hexa- 
decimal (base  16)  form. 

•  SUBMIT:  CP/M  batch  facility: 
executes  a  series  of  console  com- 
mands from  a  disk  file. 

Some  additional  commands  and 
utilities  are  available: 

•  MOVCPM:  CP/M  utility  that  is 
used  to  relocate  the  CP/M 
operating  system  depending  on 
system  memory  size. 

•  STAT:  displays  status  of 
various  device  assignments  and 
shows  the  amount  of  free  space 
left  on  each  on-line. 

•  MTS:  memory-test  program 
that  performs  a  destructive 
memory  test  on  system 
memory. 

•  SETUP:  utility  that  modifies  the 
boot-load  sector  of  a  disk.  It 
also  allows  a  disk  to  be  flagged 
for  single-  or  double-density 
operation  and  sets  the  printer 
data  rate  at  boot-load  time. 

•  REFORM:  disk-formatting  utili- 
ty that  allows  the  user  to  format 
a  disk  for  single-  or  double- 
density  operation.  Disks  may  be 
formatted  to  be  either  IBM 
3740-  compatible  or  Intel  ISIS-II 
format.  Altos  has  its  own  for- 
mat for  double  density. 

•  DTEST:  disk-test  utility  that 
checks  out  both  drives  and  disks 
on  the  system. 

•  SINGLE:  followed  by  the  letter 
designation  of  a  drive  (A,  B,  C, 
D),   will  set  up  the  drive  for 


single-density  operation. 

•  DOUBLE:  works  the  same  as 
SINGLE  but  sets  the  designated 
drive  for  double-density  opera- 
tion. 

•  COPY:  will  copy  data  track  by 
track  from  the  disk  in  drive  A  to 
drive  B. 

•  FILES:  will  display  the  file- 
control-block  information  in 
hexadecimal  for  all  files  on  a 
disk. 

Other  files  are  included  with  the 
system: 

•  BOOT. ASM:  an  assembler 
source  for  the  boot  loader. 

•  ALTOSE.ASM:  an  assembler 
source  for  the  ALTOS -E  2708 
EPROM. 

•  CBIOS.ASM:  an  assembler 
source  for  the  custom  Basic  In- 
put/Output System  (CBIOS)  in 
CP/M.  This  allows  the  user  to 
make  further  operating-system 
modifications  as  needed. 

UCSD  Pascal  Operating  System 

Initializing  the  System 
In  order  to  make  UCSD  (Univer- 
sity of  California,  San  Diego) 
Pascal  fully  operational  on  the 
Altos,  a  user-written  procedure 
that  does  direct  cursor  addressing 
on  video  terminals  must  be  added 
to  the  operating  system.  Referred 
to  as  GOTOXY,  the  procedure  ac- 
cepts two  integer  variables  as  input 
and  positions  the  cursor  on  the 
screen  accordingly.  Since  there  are 
so  many  different  video  terminals, 
it  is  the  responsibility  of  the  user  to 
write  the  GOTOXY  procedure. 
After  compiling  it,  the  user  must 
execute  a  program  called  BINDER 
which  links  GOTOXY  to  the 
SYSTEM.PASCAL  file. 

The  other  initialization  program 
is  called  SETUP.  When  executed, 
the  user  is  given  a  set  of  options  in- 
cluding Help  and  Teach.  SETUP 
modifies  a  table  of  key  assignments 
and  terminal  commands,  allowing 
the  user  to  customize  the  operating 
system  to  a  particular  terminal. 
Most  keys  may  also  have  a  prefix 
(eg:  Escape)  to  allow  for  terminals 
that  send  escape  sequences  for  cer- 
tain user-definable  keys.  For  exam- 
ple, many  terminals  have  a 
separate  keypad  for  cursor  control 


(eg:  Up,  Down,  Home,  etc).  The 
escape  sequence  for  "cursor  home" 
on  many  terminals  is  Escape-H;  or 
27,72  in  decimal  ASCII  codes.  In 
SETUP,  the  cursor-home  function 
could  be  defined  as  having  a  prefix 
code  and  the  decimal  value  72  (or 
H  as  the  character  code). 


Other  Features 

The  Pascal  Operating  System 
has  some  other  unique  features. 
When  compiling  a  program,  Pascal 
will  list  error  messages  and  ask  if 
you  want  to  continue  or  return  to 
the  editor.  If  the  latter  option  is 
chosen,  the  operating  system  loads 
the  editor  and  places  the  cursor  on 
the  character  where  the  compila- 
tion error  was  detected.  This 
feature  saves  a  great  deal  of  time 
when  correcting  syntax  and  logic 
errors. 

The  Filer  also  has  some  in- 
teresting features.  Basically,  the 
Filer  is  a  utility  program  that  lists 
directories  of  disks  and 
manipulates  files  directly  in  the 
conventional  disk-operating- 
system  mode.  On  request,  the  Filer 
will  create  a  duplicate  directory  for 
backup  purposes.  The  Filer  also 
has  a  routine  for  locating  bad 
blocks  on  disk.  If  a  bad  sector  is 
found,  it  will  be  marked  as  an  im- 
movable file  in  the  directory. 

Altos  is  marketing  Pascal/ M 
and  a  C  compiler.  The  firm  is  also 
in  the  process  of  providing  hard- 
disk  backup  on  cartridge  tape.  The 
company  is  also  introducing  an 
asynchronous  communications 
package  for  Altos  computers 
(price:  $100)  and  a  bisynchronous 
IBM  3780  protocol  package  that 
allows  the  Altos  to  go  on  line  in 
batch  mode  to  an  IBM  host  com- 
puter. The  price  is  $1000. 

In  version  II. 0  of  Pascal,  the 
Debugger  package  is  missing.  I  was 
informed  by  Altos  that  it  was 
having  problems  with  it  and  that  a 
new  version  would  be  available 
with  the  next  release.  Altos  also 
said  that  Pascal/M  does  have  a  full 
Debug  option  and  that  it  will  be 
available  shortly. 


164        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  100  on  inquiry  card. 


For  those  special  people  who've 
stepped  ahead  with  a  mini-computer 


■  -  -  —  .^^S 

Ssls^^- 

( \-ftiiii 

i@^#:®:^:: ' 

^•-'t-'v^aMk 

.^hf 

rnaxell 

Mini-Floppy  Disk 

nSSm 

.  .   ■■      .     .             f 

■  ■'     ■■:      ■     ■:. .          ■    %         .}'. 

■  ■■■...■■■..■■    .■■■.■    ■    ■■     ■      .■      ;-;: 

■■■■"■   t 

m^m 

Maxell  offers  a  way  to  stay  ahead. 


A  Maxell  5Va"  Mini-Disk  will  consistently  let  you  maxi- 
mize the  capability  of  your  system  today.  And  as  your 
involvement  with  it  grows,  tomorrow  as  well.  Maxell 
Mini-Disks  are  all  made  with  the  same  exacting  100% 
certification  and  critical  dependability  of  the  Maxell  8" 
Floppy  Disk.  So  you  know  your  5Va"  Maxell  Mini-Disks 
meet  or  exceed  the  same  ISO  and  Shugart  specifica- 
tions industry  reauires. 


There  are  double  density  Maxell  single  and  double- 
sided  5Va"  Mini-Disks  for  soft  and  hard  sector  systems. 
And  8"  Maxell  Floppy  Disks  for  every  disk  drive  config- 
uration. See  your  computer  supply  dealer  or  write  to  us 
for  more  information.  If  you  are  a  computer  products 
dealer,  wiite  for  the  growing  opportunities  Maxell 
Business  Products  Division  offers  you  with  our  8"  Floppy 
and  5Va"  Mini-Disks. 


rnaxell 


BUSINESS  PRODUCTS  DIVISION 

Maxell  Corporation  of  America,  Business  Products  Division,  60  Oxford  Drive,  Moonachie.  N.J.  07074  Tel:  201-440-8020 


Text  continued  from  page  162 

nector.  This  project  has  been  delayed 
because  of  software  development 
priorities. 

Hard-Disk  Capability 

Altos'  third  single-board  version  of 
the  ACS8000  has  an  on-board  hard- 
disk  controller  in  addition  to  the 
floppy-disk  controller.  Hard-disk 
storage  may  start  at  14.5  megabytes 
and  can  be  expanded  up  to  58 
megabytes. 

Multiuser  Versions 

The  system  that  I  received  was  an 
ACS8000-2  with  64  K  bytes  of 
memory  and  two  dual-density, 
single-sided  floppy-disk  drives.  As 
described  in  the  literature,  the 
ACS8000-2/MU2  is  a  two-user 
system  with  112  K  bytes  of  memory 
and  two  double-density  single-sided 
drives. 

Memory  is  divided  into  banks, 
with  a  16  K-byte  system  area  and  two 
or  more  48  K-byte  user  areas.  A  four- 
user  ACS8000-2/MU4  is  the  same  as 
an  MU2  but  with  208  K  bytes  of 
memory.  The  largest  non-hard-disk 
configuration  would  be  an  ACS8000- 


1K    BYTES 
EPROM 


32K    TO    208K 
BYTES  OF  USER 
MEMORY 

(32K    TO    64K 
ON    SINGLE 
USER    SYSTEMS, 
112K  FOR    2 
USERS,   208K 
FOR   4    USERS) 


All  Altos  systems  run 
either  CP/M  or  Altos 
multiuser  executive 
AMEX. 


4/MU4  with  208  K  bytes  of  memory 
for  four  users  and  four  double- 
density,  double-sided  floppy-disk 
drives. 

The  smallest  hard-disk  multiuser 
configuration  would  be  an  ACS8000- 
6/MU2  with  112  K  bytes  of  memory, 
two  double-density,  single-sided 
drives  and  a  one-platter  hard  disk 
yielding  14.5  megabytes  of  space. 
This  system  would  have  four  serial 
I/O  ports  and  two  parallel  ports. 

The  largest  configuration  would  be 
an  ACS8000-9/MU4  with  208  K 
bytes  for  four  users,  four  double- 
density,  double-sided  floppy-disk 
drives  and  58  megabytes  of  hard-disk 
space.  A  total  of  six  serial  ports  and 
two  parallel  ports  would  be  available 
on  the  system;  these  can  be  used  to 
support  four  terminals  and  two  other 
peripherals. 


Z80A 
MICROPROCESSOR 

a 

CONTROL 


I 1 

I  I 

|  OPTIONAL  L 

I  DMA 


I 


I 

OPTIONAL  I 
FPP 
AM9511 

I 


I 1 

I  OPTIONAL 
I  HARD  DISK 
I     CONTROLLER 


I    (14.5   TO    58 
|    MEGABYTES) 
I I 


FLOPPY    DISK 
CONTROLLER 


(UP    TO    4 
Bin.    DRIVES) 


_ST0 

PORT 


c 


c 


USER 
DEFINED 

_P  10 

PORT 

USER 
DEFINED 


Figure  1:  Block  diagram  of  the  Altos  ACS8000  systems. 

166       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Software 

All  Altos  systems  run  either  Digital 
Research's  CP/M  operating  system 
or  Altos  multiuser  executive  AMEX. 
AMEX  is  functionally  compatible 
with  CP/M,  using  the  same  disk  for- 
mats and  operating-system  conven- 
tions. If  you  plan  to  use  a  hard  disk, 
AMEX  is  a  necessity  since  straight 
CP/M  supports  only  floppy  disks. 
CP/M  version  2.0,  which  directly 
supports  hard  disks,  and  MP/M,  the 
multiprogramming  version  of  CP/M, 
are  also  available. 

Optional  Software 

The  Altos  CP/M  has  been 
customized  to  allow  for  printout 
spooling  and  despooling.  In  this  pro- 
cess, printed  material  is  stored  on 
disk  until  the  printer  is  free.  This  op- 
tion allows  printers  to  be  driven  in 
the  background  mode  so  that  printing 
may  go  on  while  the  computer  is  do- 
ing something  else. 

Another  software  option  is  for  use 
with  the  Microsoft  FORTRAN-80 
compiler.  A  FORTRAN  service- 
subroutine  library  called  APULIB 
makes  use  of  the  Am9511  floating- 
point processor  to  speed  up 
arithmetic  computations  in  FOR- 
TRAN by  a  factor  of  10  or  more.  A 
typical  FORTRAN  program  perform- 
ing extensive  calculations  could  run 
about  four  times  faster  with  APULIB. 

The  other  major  software  option  is 
the  UCSD  Pascal  operating  system. 
Altos  offers  it  as  a  separate  and 
distinct  operating  system  for  the 
ACS8000.  This  operating  system  con- 
sists of  a  file  manager,  an  editor,  a 
Pascal  compiler,  a  BASIC  compiler,  a 
macroassembler  for  the  Z80,  an 
interactive  debugger,  and  a 
linker/librarian.  UCSD  (University 
of  California,  San  Diego)  Pascal  runs 
as  a  P-machine  interpreter.  All  por- 
tions of  the  operating  system  and 
some  other  run-time  subroutines  are 
written  in  Pascal,  with  the  exception 
of  portions  of  the  P-machine  inter- 
preter. Pascal  is  also  patched  to 
handle  the  Am9511  arithmetic  pro- 
cessor for  greater  computational 
speed.  The  Z80  CTC  is  also  set  up  to 
act  like  a  real-time  clock.  Unfor- 
tunately, the  real-time  clock  is  not  ac- 
cessible by  the  user;  it  is  used  inter- 
nally to  improve  the  performance  of 
the  disk  interface. 

Altos  Documentation 

The  manual  shipped  with  the  Altos 
consists  of  the  following  segments: 


Copyright  *  Robert  Tinnay  197B 


^■mm^ 


Beautiful  "Computer  Chess"  Reproduction— only  $7.95! 


This  dramatic  reproduction  of  the  October  78  Byte  cover  art  has  been 
produced  with  the  same  care  and  quality  as  limited  edition  prints— yet  it  is 
available  for  the  price  of  a  poster. 

The  overall  size  is  18"  x  22",  which  includes  a  V/2"  border.  It  is  printed  on 
heavy,  80  lb.,  matte  finish,  coated  stock,  excellent  for  the  finest  framing  if 
desired. 

The  price  of  this  quality  reproduction  is  $7.95,  plus  $2.00  for  mailing  tube 
handling,  and  postage.  In  addition,  thcto* 
100  finest  prints  from  this  first  c* 


>n,  thcJMtbt,  Robert  Tinncy,  will  select  thaX' 

0\^>r\\\a  personal  signature  and  // 
ibered  prints  will  bo  sold         ^  ^>   / 


prints 
■1.00  plus  $1 


See  coupon  below  for  ordering. 


•  an  operating  manual  which  con- 
tains a  hardware  and  software  over- 
view section 

•  setup  and  checkout  guides 

•  a  CP/M  operating  guide 

•  a  troubleshooting  section 

•  all  the  schematic  diagrams 

The  manual  also  includes  the 
SA800/801  disk-drive  maintenance 
manual  and  six  publications  from 
Digital  Research  covering  all  aspects 
of  CP/M. 

Setting  Up  and  Using  a  New 
System 

My  Altos  is  hooked  up  to  a  video 
terminal  set  to  9600  bps.  When  power 
is  applied,  the  Altos  displays  the  two 
prompt  characters  %  *  on  the  con- 
sole, which  means  that  the  EPROM 
monitor  is  in  control.  (If  reset  is 
depressed,  the  same  response  is 
given.)  If  a  floppy  disk  is  inserted  into 
drive  A  (the  drive  on  the  right-hand 
side)  and  reset  is  depressed,  the 
monitor  will  automatically  begin 
loading  the  operating  system  from  the 
disk.  If  you  are  running  CP/M,  the 
message  "32  K  ALTOS  DOS  VERS 
1.47"  will  be  displayed,  followed  by 
A>  on  the  next  line.  The  A  character 
means  that  the  disk  in  drive  A  is  the 
currently  active  disk,  while  the  >  in- 
dicates that  CP/M  is  ready  to  receive 
commands. 

After  the  machine  displayed  the 
A>  prompt,  I  tried  to  enter  the  DIR 


command  to  display  the  directory, 
with  no  success.  I  reset  the  system 
and  tried  again  —  still  nothing.  Then 
I  decided  to  check  the  RS-232  cable 
and  connectors  to  see  if  the  transmit 
and  receive  lines  were  hooked  up  pro- 
perly. After  experimenting  with  my 
own  8080-based  system  to  make  sure 
the  terminal  would  talk  to  it  and  still 
finding  no  problems,  I  called  Altos: 
the  gentleman  I  spoke  with  suggested 
that  I  make  sure  that  pin  20  (Data 
Terminal  Ready)  of  the  RS-232  cable 
was  hooked  up.  I  took  apart  my  cable 
and  found  that  pin  20  was  not  con- 
nected. A  quick  resoldering  job 
solved  the  problem.  (I  later 
discovered  that  the  Altos  manual 
discusses  the  problem  in  the  section 
on  troubleshooting,  but  I  had 
apparently  not  seen  it  on  my  first 
reading  of  the  manual.) 

One  of  my  complaints  about  the 
Altos  is  that  the  console  data  rate  is 
defined  in  firmware  —  in  the 
EPROM.  The  system  can  be  used 
only  if  you  have  a  9600  bps  terminal 
(at  least,  to  start  with).  Even  after  the 
initial  load,  there  is  no  way  to  easily 
modify  the  data  rate  short  of  creating 
a  new  EPROM. 

CP/M  has  a  SETUP  command  that 
allows  the  user  to  change  the  boot- 
load  characteristics  of  a  disk.  The 
printer  data  rate,  the  system  clock 
rate  (2  MHz  or  4  MHz),  and  the  den- 
sity of  the  disk  may  be  redefined  for 
each    system    disk.    It   would    seem 


reasonable  to  be  able  to  modify  the 
console  data  rate  also,  but  this  is  not 
currently  the  case. 

Formatting  Disks 

The  next  thing  I  tried  to  do  was  to 
create  a  backup  copy  of  the  master 
system  disk.  The  documentation  for 
this  procedure  is  fairly  accurate,  but 
important  instructions  are  left  out. 

The  first  step  is  to  insert  a  blank 
disk  (with  the  label  side  facing  down) 
into  drive  B,  the  left-hand  drive.  The 
REFORM  command  will  reformat  a 
disk  for  any  of  several  disk  formats. 
After  typing  in  REFORM,  the  com- 
puter asks  you  to  enter  a  number  cor- 
responding to  the  type  of  format  that 
will  be  used  and  to  indicate  whether 
the  blank  disk  is  in  drive  B  (in  a  two- 
drive  system)  or  drive  D  (in  a  four- 
drive  system). 

The  first  time  I  tried  to  format  a 
disk,  I  got  errors  on  top  of  errors.  The 
documentation  failed  to  mention  that 
the  write  protect  notch  on  the  disk 
must  be  covered  to  allow  read /write 
operation.  Since  I  usually  work  with 
5  -inch  floppy  disks,  I  am  used  to 
covering  the  write  protect  notch  to 
protect  a  disk,  not  to  unprotect  it. 
After  trying  everything  I  could  think 
of,  it  finally  occurred  to  me  that  the 
notch  might  need  to  be  covered  to 
work.  [This  method  of  disk  protec- 
tion is  standard  for  8-inch  disks,  so 
neither  Altos  nor  its  documentation  is 
in    error    here.    Still,    this    situation 


At  a  Glance 

Name  of  computer 

Altos  ACS8000  series 

Software  included 

ALTOS-E  monitor  (in 

Manufacturer 

Altos  Computer  Systems 
2360  Bering  Dr 
San  Jose  CA  95131 
(408)  946-6700 

Hardware  options 

read-only  memory) 

an  9511  arithmetic- 
processor  board;  Win- 
chester hard  disk;  multiple 

Price 
Processor 

from  $2840  (ACS8000-1S) 
Z80A  (8-bit) 

Software  options 

users 

Operating  systems:  AMEX, 
CP/M   MP/M   OASIS 

Memory 
Mass  Storage 

64  K  bytes  (expandable  to 
208  K  bytes  on  a  multiuser 
system) 

one  to  four  8-inch,  single- 
or  double-density,  single- 
or  double-sided,  Shugart 
floppy-disk  drives 

Languages 

UCSD  Pascal. 

FORTRAN-80;  MBASIC, 
MBASIC-80,  CBASIC  II; 
COBOL-80,  CIS  COBOL; 
Vanguard  APL,  PL/ 1-80, 
Z80  Macro  Assembler 

Other  hardware  features 

includes  serial  printer  port, 
two  user-definable  parallel 
ports 

168       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  101  on  inquiry  card. 


THE  SOLUTION  STORE 


.  Makes  The  Difference! 


MicroAge  Computer  Stores  sell  solutions  to  your  professional,  business 
and  household-management  problems,  not  just  hardware.  That's  what 
makes  the  MicroAge  difference!  From  systems  integration  to  easy-to- 
understand  application  software,  research  and  development  to  warranty 
service  and  repair,  systems  consulting  to  training  and  installation.  In  all 
these,  we  offer  the  latest,  most  innovative  approaches.  That's  why  we  are 
the  forerunners ...  the  pioneers  in  the  microcomputer  industry. 

But  don't  just  take  our  word  for  it.  Visit  the  MicroAge  Computer  Store  nearest 
you  and  see  the  difference  solutions  make.  We  have  differences  you'll 
experience  with  every  time-  and  money-saving  idea.  The  difference  that 
will  keep  you  satisfied  now  and  for  years  to  come! 


/MicroAge 

CQ/MPUTOr  sTore 

"Where  Vision  Becomes  Reality" 


61 1  Rockville  Pike 
Rockville,  Maryland 
(301)840-9315 

5742  E.  Broadway 
Tucson,  Arizona 
(602)  790*959 


1 707  Monroe  Avenue 
Rochester,  New  York 
(716)  244-9000 

1220  Melbourne  Drive 
Hurst,  Texas 
(817)284-3413 


2065B  El  Camino  Real  West        83  South  10th  Street  24  W.  Camelback  2591  Hamilton  Road 

Mountainview,  California  Mineapolis,  Minnesota  Phoenix,  Arizona  Columbus,  Ohio 

(415)964-7063  (612)338-1777  (602)2650065  (614)868-1550 

2525  NScottsdale  Road  1490  W.  Spring  Valley  Road  4550-50  E.  Cactus  Coming  SOOn  to: 

Scottsdale,  Arizona  Richardson,  Texas  Phoenix,  Arizona  El  Paso,  Texas 

(602)941-8794  (214)234-5955  (602)996-2910  Denver,  Colorado 


FOR  FRANCHISE  OPPORTUNITY  INFORMATION  CALL  (602)  967-1421 


always  causes  problems  for  people 
who  are  accustomed  to  working  with 
5-inch  floppy  disks.  .  .  ,GW] 

Altos  Demonstration  Programs 

The  CP/M  disk  that  came  with  the 
system  had  a  number  of  demonstra- 
tion programs,  including  a  biorhythm 
program  in  BASIC,  a  rather  poor  im- 
plementation of  tic-tac-toe,  a 
number-guessing  game,  and  a  pro- 
gram that  did  nothing  but  compute 
and  print  square  roots.  The  business 
package  demonstration  programs  in- 
cluded a  payroll  generator  and  an 
automobile  parts-list/inventory  pro- 
gram. 

The  only  documentation  provided 
with  any  of  these  business  demo  pro- 
grams was  a  single  typed  page  giving 


hopelessly  inadequate  operating  in- 
structions. I  never  succeeded  in  mak- 
ing any  of  the  nongame  programs 
work. 

Final  Remarks 

•  The  hardware  of  the  Altos 
ACS8000  is  well  designed,  although 
the  documentation  of  some  of  its 
components  is  absent.  The  computer 
uses  several  sophisticated,  optional 
support  chips  such  as  the  counter- 
timer,  the  serial  and  parallel  ports, 
and  the  Am9511  arithmetic  pro- 
cessor. However  I  had  to  look  over 
the  manufacturers'  specification 
sheets  and  application  notes  to  find 
out  anything  about  them. 

•  The  software  of  the  Altos  ACS8000 
is   not    as   well  supported,    but    the 


CP/M,  AMEX,  UCSD  Pascal,  and 
OASIS  operating  systems  are 
available.  Altos  has  provided  no  soft- 
ware support  for  the  specialized  hard- 
ware built  into  the  system. 

•  Languages  available  from  Altos  in- 
clude FORTRAN-80,  MBASIC, 
MBASIC-80,  CBASIC  II, 
COBOL-80,  CIS  COBOL,  Vanguard 
APL,  PL/I-80,.  and  Z80  Macro 
Assembler.  Numerous  other 
languages  are  available  from  other 
sources  for  use  with  the  CP/M 
operating  system. 

•  The  Altos  ACS8000  is  strong  on 
hardware  and  weak  on  software  and 
documentation.  Perhaps  someday  the 
Altos  people  will  get  around  to 
documenting  and  supporting  the  best 
selling  points  of  their  product  line.  ■ 


SciTronJCS  introduces  the  first  small  computer  based  power  monitor . 


^  ENERGY  WATTCHER 


TM 


Now  have  your  computer  continuously  measure,  calculate  and  record  your 
power  consumption  and  cost.  Receive  energy  reports  every  minute,  15  minute, 
hour,  day  and  month  period. 


•  Available  for  TRS-80-I,  Apple  II  &  S-100 
computers. 

•  Easy  installation  clip-on  probes  supplied. 

•  Qualify  for  a  15%  energy  tax  credit. 


•  Compatible  with  Remote  Controller  &  Real  Time 
Clock  for  complete  Energy  Management  System. 

•  Inexpensive  — only  $295. 


Remote  Controller  &  Real  Time  Clock  Available 

Have  full  computer  control  of  up  to  256  lights,  appliances 
and  even  wall  switches  without  special  wiring.  The  SciTronics 
REMOTE  CONTROLLER  permits  direct  control  of  the  inex- 
pensive BSR  remote  line-carrier  switches  sold  by  Sears, 
Radio  Shack  and  many  others. 

•  Controls  all  256  BSR  remote  switches  — not  just  16 

•  Hardware  driven  — requires  minimal  software 

•  No  ultrasonic  link  — prevents  erractic  operation 

•  No  BSR  command  module  necessary 

•  Real  time,  crystal  controlled  clock  available 

The  controller  comes  complete  with  full  documentation,  sample  software 
and  is  designed  to  work  with  most  of  the  popular  computers  including 
any  S-100  based  system,  TRS-80-1,  Apple  II,  Heath  H8  and  others. 

Real  time  clocks  are  available  for  all  of  the  above  computer  systems. 
When  used  with  the  controller,  true  time  scheduling  is  realized.  All 
clocks  are  crystal  controlled  and  have  battery  backup  for  accurate  and 
reliable  operation  Interrupts  allow  Foreground/Background  operation 
of  two  programs  simultaneously.  Clock  data  includes  year,  month, 
date,  day  of  week,  hour,  minute,  and  second. 

Applications: 

•  Make  your  entire  home  or  apartment  computer  controlled 

•  Save  energy  by  controlling  lights  &  appliances 

•  Control  security  systems  &  alarms 


Remote  switches  not  included 

ENERGY WATTCHER  $295. 

S-100  CONTROLLER  BOARD  $159. 

S-100  REAL  TIME  CLOCK  BOARD  $139. 

E  NCASE  D  CONTROLLE  R  (TRS-80.  Apple  1 1  etc.)  $1 84. 

ENCASED  CONTROLLER  & 

REAL  TIME  CLOCK  (TRS-80,  Apple  II  etc.)  $269. 

APPLE  II  CLOCK  BOARD  $109. 

Send  check  or      SciTrOtllCS   IllC. 

money  order  to:   523  s.  Clewell  St.,  P.O.  Box  5344 
Bethlehem,  PA  18015 
(215)868-7220 

Please  list  system  with  which  you  plan  to  use  peripheral 
Master  Charge  and  Visa  accepted.  PA  residents  add  sales 
tax  COD's  accepted 


Dealer  Inquiries  Invited 


170        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  lnc 


Circle  102  on  inquiry  card. 


GOOD  NEWS  FOR  CBASIC-2tm  USERS 

INTRODUCING 

QBASIC 

Now  you  can  move  up  to 

a  16  bit  multi-user  system  with 

a  real  machine  code  compiler 

that  accepts  your  existing  programs. 


QBASIC  is  the  latest  in  Marinchip  Systems 
growing  line  of  software  for  our  M9900 
computer.  While  preserving  source 
language  compatibility  with  the  widely  used 
CBASIC-2,,,,  language,  QBASIC  generates 
real  machine  code  for  the  M9900's  16  bit 
processor.  QBASIC  programs  run  up  to  ten 
times  faster.  Separate  compilation  of  pro- 
gram modules  is  permitted.  Assembly 
language  calls  are  made  more  simple  and 
flexible. 

So,  if  you  like  CBASIC,, ,,,  but  are  limited  by 
its  performance  and  the  hardware  and 
operating  systems  it  runs  on,  contact  us 
about  our  new  QBASIC. 

Marinchip  Systems 


Circle  103  on  inquiry  card. 


QBASIC  is  only  the  latest  member  of  the 

*  Superb  user  manuals 

M9900  hardware  and  software  line  that  in- 

* Three  year  track  record  of  hardware 

clude  the  following  major  features: 

and  software  reliability 

*  Systems,  boards,  kits,  and  software 

*  Advanced  16  bit  processor 

available 

*  S-100  Bus  flexibility 

*  Both  8  and  16  bit  memory  supported 

*  Unix,,,,  like  multi-user  operating  system 

*  Memory  size  up  to  16  megabytes 

Complete  dual  floppy  single  user  systems 

*  Pascal,  Assembler,  and  BASIC,,,, 

from  $5500,  and  floppy  or  hard  disc  mufti- 

interpreter 

user  systems  configured  to  your  require- 

* Hard  disc  or  floppy  available 

ments. 

*  Prompt  quantity  delivery  with  attractive 

discounts 

Call  or  write  for  complete  specifications  and 

*  Applications  available:  General  Ledger, 

price  list. 

Accounts  Payable  and  Receivable, 

C8ASIC  is  a  trademark  ot  Compiler  Systems 

Payroll,  and  Text  Formatter 

UNIX  is  a  trademark  ot  Bell  Laboratories 

BASIC  is  a  trademark  ot  the  Trustees  of  Dartmouth  College 

Computer  Power  and  Human  Reason 
16  St.  Jude  Road 


Mill  Valley,  CA  94941 
(415)383-1545 


Advertising  Design   Asterisk  Associates 
BYTE  November  I960         171 


Seventh  Annual 

SIGGRAPH 

Conference 


Kenneth  Livingston 

225  Nebraska  Hall 

University  of  Nebraska 

Lincoln  NE  68508 

Mark  Dahmke 

1515  Superior,  Apt  15 

Lincoln  NE  68521 


The  Association  for  Computing  Machinery  (ACM) 
Special  Interest  Group  on  Computer  Graphics  (SIG- 
GRAPH) held  its  seventh  annual  conference  on  July  14 
thru  18,  at  the  Seattle  (Washington)  Center  (former  site 
of  the  Seattle  World's  Fair).  This  conference,  like  all  of 
the  recent  SIGGRAPH  conferences,  was  extremely  well 
attended.  Over  1200  people  registered  for  the  two-day 
preconference  tutorials.  More  than  2300  people  registered 
for  the  three-day  conference  itself.  Participants  came 
from  nearly  every  state,  Canada,  several  European  coun- 
tries, and  Japan. 

Preconference  Tutorials 

Each  year,  the  conference  organizers  have  sought  to 
provide  participants  with  an  opportunity  to  not  only  at- 
tend the  conference,  but  also  to  acquire  additional  infor- 
mation and  expertise  about  graphics  through  a  series  of 
tutorial  sessions.  These  are  led  by  well-known  computing 
and  graphics  professionals  from  both  industry  and  educa- 
tion. This  year's  eight  tutorial  sessions  included  these 
topics: 

•  Introduction  to  Computer  Graphics 

•  Introduction  to  Raster  Graphics 

•  Advanced  Raster  Graphics 

•  Computer-Aided  Design 

•  Low-Cost  Graphics 

•  Graphic  Design  and  Information  Graphics 

•  Animation  Graphics 

•  User  Interfaces  to  Graphic  Systems 

These  tutorials  ranged  in  level  of  expertise  from  novice  to 
expert  and  provided  a  means  for  everyone  to  advance 
technically. 

The  session  on  low-cost  computer  graphics  addressed 
issues  relating  to  the  use  of  graphics  capabilities  of 
personal-computing  hardware.  Many  of  these  systems 
can  be  configured  at  costs  of  about  $2000.  Given  today's 
economy,  systems  in  this  price  range  can  be  very  appeal- 
ing to  small  businesses,  public-school  systems,  and  small 

Photos  1  thru  6  by  Kenneth  Livingston. 

172       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


colleges  and  universities.  At  the  other  end  of  the  scale  are 
large  CAD/CAM  (Computer-Aided  Design/Computer- 
Aided  Manufacturing)  systems.  Typically,  these  systems 
are  quite  expensive,  ranging  from  $40,000  to  $300,000  for 
top-of-the-line  systems.  Obviously,  smaller  and  less  ex- 
pensive (and,  therefore,  less  comprehensive  and  versatile) 
systems  exist.  The  computer-aided  design  tutorial  ad- 
dressed the  needs  of  medium-  and  large-scale  industry 
users  of  CAD/CAM  systems. 

Included  in  this  session  were  discussions  of 
CAD  /CAM  standards  for  data  bases  and  techniques  used 
for  geometric  modeling.  Geometric  modeling  is  a  term 
used  to  describe  the  process  of  representing  a  three- 
dimensional  object  by  a  series  of  Cartesian,  polar,  or 
homogeneous  coordinates  with  (or  without)  a  series  of 
equations.  The  object  may  or  may  not  exist  prior  to  the 
construction  of  the  numerical  or  geometric  model. 

Three  other  tutorials  on  raster  graphics  and  animation 
were  oriented  toward  the  use  of  raster-scan  devices. 
Because  raster-scan  devices  essentially  use  standard 
television  technology,  there  is  a  significant  price  and  per- 
formance advantage  in  their  use.  Personal-computer 
owners  should  be  aware  of  this  advantage,  as  many 
microcomputer  systems  have  utilized  raster-scan  (televi- 
sion) technology  from  the  beginning.  Discussions  of 
algorithms  for  modeling  three-dimensional  objects, 
simulation  of  light  sources  (shading  and  shadows),  sur- 
face textures,  and  display  optimization  dominated  these 
sessions.  An  emphasis  was  placed  on  the  creation  of 
realistic-looking  images. 

Another  group  of  tutorials  centered  on  what  might  be 
termed  human  factors  in  computer  graphics.  Human  fac- 
tors means  the  interface  between  human  beings  and 
machines.  It  is  an  area  of  computing  in  general  that, 
while  not  being  totally  overlooked,  has  certainly  been 
slighted.  Those  of  us  involved  in  interactive  computing 
(including  graphics)  realized  long  ago,  by  necessity,  how 
important  a  friendly,  forgiving,  and  possibly  even 
natural  interface  is  for  successful  communication  be- 
tween people  and  machines.  The  frustration  of  having  an 
interactive  program  bomb  or  hang  before  completing  its 
task  can  be  overwhelming. 

Our  batch-oriented  colleagues  have  discovered  this 
recently,  primarily  because  on-line  data  bases  are  becom- 
ing more  popular,  and  more  batch-oriented  computing 
professionals  are  finding  their  way  into  interactive  proj- 
ects. Recently,  we  have  begun  to  discover  the  importance 
of  aesthetically  pleasing  and  more  understandable 
graphic  output.  Many  computer-graphics  specialists  have 
come  into  this  area  from  the  technical  side,  rather  than 
from  the  artistic  side.  It  should  come  as  no  surprise,  then, 
that  graphic  designers  can  offer  much  sound  advice  about 
graphics  layout  and  design.  This  information  can  be  very 
valuable  in  businesses  where  executives  are  accustomed 
to  expecting  and  demanding  professional  quality  for 
graphics  presented  at  board  meetings  and  in  annual 
reports.  Two  tutorials  concentrated  on  psychological 
aspects,  design  methodologies,  subjective  evaluation, 
and  design  concepts  as  they  relate  to  computer-graphics 
systems. 

All  of  the  tutorials  were  well  attended.  Although  we 
were  unable  to  attend  all  of  them  (they  ran  concurrently), 
those  sessions  we  attended  were  well  thought  out  and 
carefully  presented. 


MODEL  II 


AUTHORIZED 
TRS-8O0® 


MODEL  I 


AL.ERA301 


26-4002 

64K  1  Drive 

$3499.00 

MODEL  III 


COMPUTER  SPECIALISTS 

26-1056  16K  Level  II  System  with  Keypad.  $670.00 

26-1145  RS-232  Board 84.00 

261 140  "O"  K  Interface 249.00 

26-1141  "16"  K  Interface 365.00 

26-1142  "32"  K  Interface 476.00 

26-1 160  Mini  Disk  -  Drive  O 424.00 

26-1161  Mini  Disk  -Additional 424.00 

26-1154  Lineprinter  II 720.00 

26-1156  Lineprinter  III 1799.00 

26-1180  Voice  Synthesiser 339.00 

26-1181  VOXBOX 145.00 

26-1104  Factory  Upper/Lower 

Case  Modifcation  Installed 70.00 

26-1506  Scripsit  -  Tape 60.00 

26-1563  Scripsit  -  Disk 85.00 

NOTE:  Call  for  availability  of  VIDEO  TEX,  Model  III,  Color, 
and  other  new  products. 


26-1054 

4K  Level  II 

$552.00 

COLOR 


lg$%gg3g£&BMi>» 


ALL  OTHER  R.S.  SOFTWARE 

FURNITURE,  STANDS,  CABLES 

AND  ACCESSORIES  DEDUCT 

10%  FROM  CATALOG  PRICE 


26-3001  4K $360.00 

26-3002  16K 540.00 

26-3010  Color  Video 360.00 

26-1206  Recorder 54.00 

26-3008  Joysticks 22.50 


CERTROniES 

Fast  100  CPS  Centronics 

730    Printer $675. 

Text  Quality  Centronics 

737    Printer $850 


Novation  Cat  Modem.  .$149.00 
CCA  Data  Management 

System 72.00 

Adventure  Games 

Games  1-9  each 14.00 


□ 


Acorn 

Software 
Products,  Inc. 


00 


Pocket  Computer 


00 


Model  II  Cobol  Compiler 

$360.00 

Cobol  Run  Time  Package 

$36.00 


26-3501  1 .9K  P.C $225.00 

26-3503  Cassette  l/F 45.00 

14-812  Recorder 72.00 


GAMES: 

Alien   Invasion $9.00 

Stock   Market 9.00 

Star  Trek 9.00 

Block 'Em 9.00 

Ting-Tong 9.00 

UTILITIES: 

System   Savers 14.00 

EDUCATION: 

Language  Teacher 18.00 

FREE:  PRICE  LIST 
UPON  REQUEST 


1-800-841-0860  Toll  Free  Order  Entry 

MICRO  MANAGEMENT  SVSTEMS,  INC. 


No  Taxes  on  Out  Of 
State  Shipments 


Immediate  Shipment 
From  Stock  on  Most  Items 


DOWNTOWN  PLAZA  SHOPPING  CENTER 

115CSECONDAVE.  S.W. 

CAIRO,  GEORGIA31728 

(912)  377-7120  Ga.  Phone  No. 


'TRS-80  is  a  registered  trademark  of  the  Tandy  Corp. 


Full  Factory  Warranty 
on  All  Items  Sold. 

Largest  Inventory 
In  the  S.E.  U.S.A. 


Circle  104  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


173 


The  Conference 

In  an  attempt  to  emphasize  the  importance  of  graphic- 
design  concepts  and  the  human-factors  side  of  computer 
graphics,  the  first  session  was  a  special  panel  presentation 
chaired  by  Aaron  Marcus,  research  consultant  at 
Lawrence  Livermore  Laboratories.  This  panel  featured 
graphic  designers  from  the  United  States  and  Europe. 
They  agreed  that  we  have  seen  far  too  many  examples  of 
poorly  designed  graphics — especially  computer- 
generated  graphics.  Anyone  engaging  in  computer 
graphics  would  do  well  to  obtain  and  read  some  good 
textbooks  on  graphic  design,  in  addition  to  their 
computer-graphics  texts.  While  a  chart  or  graph  is  more 
understandable  than  a  table  of  numbers,  a  well-designed 
chart  or  graph  is  more  readable  than  one  which  has  had 
no  design  principles  applied  to  its  creation. 

The  remainder  of  Wednesday's  sessions  were  split  into 
two  concurrent  sessions.  Papers  presented  in  one  group 
of  sessions  were  quite  technical  in  nature:  'The  Theory, 
Design,  Implementation  and  Evaluation  of  a  Three- 
Dimensional  Surface  Detection  Algorithm"  and  "Simula- 
tion and  Expected  Performance  Analysis  of  Multiple  Pro- 
cessor Z-Buffer  Systems."  Papers  presented  in  the  other 
group  of  sessions  were  more  applications-oriented: 
"Geographic  and  Data  Base  Systems"  and  "Computer 
Graphics  Moves  into  the  Business  World." 

The  latter  area  is  of  specific  interest  to  one  of  us  (Liv- 
ingston), who  is  currently  involved  in  the  integration  of 
computer  graphics  and  market  research.  According  to 
Carl  Machover  of  Machover  Associates,  who  chaired  the 
business-graphics  panel  discussion,  there  are  four  com- 
puters used  in  business  applications  for  every  computer 
used  in  CAD/CAM  types  of  applications.  Assuming  that 
these  figures  are  accurate,  the  business-computer 
graphics  potential  is  enormous.  This  position  is  sup- 
ported by  IBM's  recent  entry  into  the  low-cost,  color, 
business-graphics  marketplace  with  its  Model  3279 
display  terminal.  Recent  articles  in  Harvard  Business 
Review  (January  1980)  and  the  Wall  Street  Journal  also 
seem  to  reinforce  this  position. 

Thursday's  sessions  embraced  a  wide  variety  of  topics. 
Sessions  dedicated  to  graphics  software  and  languages, 
surfaces,  and  applications  filled  the  morning.  Papers 
were  presented  at  these  sessions  ranging  from  the  design 
of  a  LISP-based  graphics  language,  to  three-dimensional 
representation  and  rendering  algorithms,  and  to 
stereographic  displays  of  atmospheric  data.  (This  latter 
session  proved  to  be  very  interesting  to  us  for  reasons 
having  little  to  do  with  computer  graphics.  The  materials 
chosen  for  displays  represented  conditions  existing  in  the 
Omaha,  Nebraska,  area — sixty  miles  away  from  our 
homes— when  the  1975  tornado  struck  that  area.) 

Thursday-afternoon  sessions  were  oriented  toward 
rather  specialized  areas  of  computer  graphics: 

•  Computer  Graphics  and  Television 

•  Animation 

•  CAD/CAM 

•  User  Views  of  CAD/CAM 

Recent  uses  of  computer  graphics  in  television  were 
discussed,  including  a  presentation  by  ABC  Sports  on 
their  use  during  the  Winter  Olympics.  The  CAD/CAM 
sessions  included  reports  on  graphics  used  in  planning 
electrical-distribution  systems,  ship-hull  design,  and 
graphics  at  the  Ford  Motor  Company.  There  was  also  a 
panel  discussion  addressing  productivity  gains  and  expec- 


tations achieved  through  the  use  of  CAD/CAM  systems. 

Friday's  sessions  included  discussions  of  graphics  stan- 
dards, human  factors  (more),  and  raster  techniques.  The 
question  of  graphics  standards  is  of  particular  importance 
to  those  who  regularly  attempt  to  transport  graphics  pro- 
grams or  systems  from  one  computing  environment  to 
another.  While  other  areas  of  computing  developed  stan- 
dards long  ago  (eg:  COBOL,  FORTRAN,  Pascal,  etc), 
the  graphics  area  had  not  attempted  such  a  feat  until 
quite  recently.  This  has  all  begun  to  change,  thanks  to  the 
work  of  the  SIGGRAPH  CORE  standards  committee. 

The  human-factors  presentations  included  discussions 
on  color  and  how  it  is  perceived  by  the  human  eye,  and 
on  a  prototype  voice-  and  gesture-input  interface  being 
developed  at  MIT.  An  afternoon  session  on  raster- 
graphics  techniques  completed  the  conference  program. 

Perhaps  the  only  negative  criticism  we  offer  concerns 
the  famous  SIGGRAPH  film  festival.  This  has  become  an 
annual  event  since  its  informal  inception,  at  the  first  SIG- 
GRAPH conference,  on  the  balcony  of  one  participant's 
dormitory  room  at  the  University  of  Colorado  in 
Boulder.  This  year's  film  festival  was  held  in  a  hotel 
ballroom  designed  to  hold  no  more  than  1500  people. 
With  1900  people  packed  into  the  crowded  space,  and 
lines  waiting  to  get  in,  the  hotel's  management  restricted 
access  to  the  ballroom  for  safety  reasons.  A  greatly  ab- 
breviated second  showing  left  many  participants 
frustrated.  The  film  festival  is  a  forum  for  some  of  the 
best  computer  graphics  and  animation  produced  during 
the  preceding  year  and  is  always  enlightening  and  well  at- 
tended. We  sincerely  hope  next  year's  conference  com- 
mittee takes  the  film  festival's  popularity  into  considera- 
tion during  planning. 

The  Exhibition 

Although  this  was  the  seventh  annual  SIGGRAPH 
conference,  it  was  only  the  fifth  annual  SIGGRAPH  ex- 
hibition. There  were  ninety-nine  vendors  listed  in  the  ex- 
hibition guide  for  SIGGRAPH  '80.  At  SIGGRAPH  '76 
(the  first  exhibition),  there  were  only  ten.  This  says  much 
about  the  growth  of  this  part  of  the  industry.  Another  in- 
dicator of  growth,  according  to  Ken  Anderson  of  the 
Anderson  Report  (a  newsletter  devoted  to  computer 
graphics),  is  the  fact  that  last  year  the  computer-graphics 
industry  reached  $1  billion  in  delivered  products.  The 
computing  industry  as  a  whole  does  approximately  $40 
billion  in  delivered  products  per  year. 

Several  vendors  at  the  exhibition  were  of  special  in- 
terest to  personal-computer  users.  ABW  Corporation 
demonstrated  its  TEKSIM  package.  TEKSIM  allows  the 
Apple  II  user  to  access  the  Tektronix  Plot-10  software. 
Although  the  Apple /TEKSIM  combination  offers  only 
about  one-fourth  the  resolution  of  a  Tektronix  terminal, 
advantages  such  as  lower  cost,  color  displays,  selective 
erase,  and  standard  video  output  are  claimed  by  the  ven- 
dor. Apple  Computer  Inc  displayed  both  the  Apple  II  and 
III  computers.  Calcomp,  which  most  of  us  think  of  as  a 
vendor  for  the  large-host  user,  demonstrated  its  1051 
drum  plotter  (among  other  products).  The  Model  1051  is 
an  RS-232C-compatible,  relatively  low-cost  product, 
which,  considering  Calcomp 's  quality  reputation  and  ser- 
vice organization,  makes  it  a  viable  product  for  passive- 
graphics  production  on  small  systems. 

Cromemco,  with  which  most  personal-computer  users 
are  familiar,  brought  its  line  of  high-  and  medium- 
resolution  graphics  hardware  to  the  exhibition.  Recent 


174       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


emphasis  on  efficient  software  designed  to  increase  the 
productivity  of  the  programmer  and  end  user  is  evident 
in  Cromemco's  recently  announced  high-resolution 
graphics-software  package.  Digital  Engineering,  Inc,  was 
present  with  its  Retro-Graphics  printed-circuit  board. 
This  transforms  the  Lear-Siegler  ADM-3A  terminal  into  a 
graphics  terminal  compatible  with  the  Tektronix  Plot-10 
software  package.  This  company  also  makes  a  cross-hair 
graphic-input  cursor  and  a  printer  for  the  modified  ter- 
minal. Houston  Instruments,  a  division  of  Bausch  & 
Lomb  Corporation,  displayed  much  of  its  pen-plotter  line 
and  its  more  recently  developed  electro-static  plotter  line. 

An  eight-color,  eight-pen  digital  plotter  was  displayed 
by  Soltec  Corporation.  This  is  an  interesting  approach  to 
low-cost,  multipen,  passive  graphics.  The  plotter  is 
basically  a  single-pen  plotter  with  "parking  stalls"  for  ad- 
ditional pens  and  enough  native  intelligence  to  relocate 
each  pen  for  changes  in  color  and  line  weight,  or  for  an 
optional  cross-hair  cursor  for  digitizing.  Summagraphics 
exhibited  its  popular  Bit-Pad  One,  a  low-cost  approach 
to  graphic-data-entry  problems. 

Tektronix  was  present  with  nearly  everything  in  its  line 
of  graphics  terminals  and  its  stand-alone  4050  series  of 
desk-top  graphics  computers.  Hewlett-Packard  also 
displayed  its  line  of  desk-top  graphics  computers  in- 
cluding the  Model  9845C  color  machine.  The  space- 
shuttle  image  on  this  machine  was  very  impressive. 

Also  present  were  vendors  oriented  toward  heavy 


Photo  1:  Megatek's  new  Wizzard  color  terminal.  It  also  heralds 
the  development  of  Megatek's  device-independent  software. 


Photo  2:  Overview  of  exhibition  area.  The  Calcomp  booth  is  in 
the  center  foreground.  Tektronix  is  in  the  center  mid-way  back. 
IBM  and  Hewlett-Packard  are  in  the  center  rear  and  Megatek  is 
to  the  right  in  the  foreground. 


Photo  3:  The  Hewlett-Packard  9845C  color  desk-top  computer 
is  being  demonstrated  by  using  an  image  of  the  space  shuttle. 


SAVE  AT  THE  APPLE  COMPUTER  SUPERMARKET... 

"Computers 'R'  us" 

UNBEATABLE  MAIL  ORDER  DISCOUNTS 
.,      A  SUBSIDIARY  OF  CONSUMER  COMPUTERS 


CHRISTMAS 

SUPER 

SALE 


APPLE  II  PLUS 

OR  APPLE  II  STANDARD 

i6K  on°lrv$925 

48K      1049 


DISK  II  DRIYE$40C 

W/CONTROLLER  ■•«»•# 

i        PASCAL   $a«c 
SYSTEM  '425 

SIE  PACE   39  1 
L  FOR  MORE  PRODUCTS  AMD 
ORDERING  INFORMATION 


OFFER 
EXPIRES 
DEC.  31 
1980 


ORDER  TOLL  FREE:  1-800-854-6654 

CALIFORNIA,  BACKORDER  OR  TECHNICAL  INFO:  (714)  698-8088 

CREOIT  CARD  USERS  PLEASE  SEE  ORDERING  INSTRUCTIONS  ON  PAGE  391 


Circle  105  on  inquiry  card. 


November  1980  ©  BYTE  Public»Hons  Inc       175 


graphics  users.  CAD/CAM  applications  by  Computervi- 
sion,  Inc,  were  shown.  IBM  showed  entries  for  all  levels: 
the  3279  color  terminal  for  low-  to  mid-level  business- 
graphics  users,  the  3277  graphics-attachment  feature  for 
the  mid-level  engineering  users,  and  the  3250  for 
CAD/CAM  applications.  Vector  General  and  Adage 
featured  their  high-performance  vector-display  devices. 
Megatek,  with  a  popular  display  booth,  exhibited  its  new 
line  of  Wizzard  graphics  terminals. 

With  nearly  100  vendors  displaying  recent 
developments,  it  is  not  possible  to  describe  all  the  new 
products.  Suffice  it  to  say  that  there  was  something  for 
everyone  at  the  exhibition.  If  too  little  information  could 
be  gleaned  from  vendor  representatives  at  their  display 
booths,  many  vendors  also  conducted  forum  sessions 
from  morning  until  evening.  Technical  and  management 
people  were  there  to  answer  more  detailed  questions 
about  their  products. 

There  are  three  things  we  want  to  reemphasize  as  being 
significant  in  the  computer-graphics  industry: 

•  First,  the  continued  development  of  lower-cost  color 
graphics  terminals — the  user's  capital  expenditures  are 
critical  in  justifying  new  approaches  in  problem  solving. 

•  Second,  an  increased  emphasis  on  graphics-software 
standards  yielding  greater  productivity  for  software 
developers  and  end  users. 

•  Finally,  the  beginning  use  of  computer  graphics  by  and 


Photo  4:  A  Calcomp  representative  demonstrates  the  Model 
1051  digital  plotter. 


for  management,  as  opposed  to  its  historically  limited  use 
as  an  engineering  tool. 

These  items  are  very  important  to  the  growth  of  the 
computer-graphics  industry.  This  exhibition,  the  con- 
ference, and  the  tutorials  were  dedicated  to  enhancing 
these  three  areas. 

Harvey  Kriloff  and  Robert  Ellis,  cochairmen  of  the 
SIGGRAPH  '80  conference,  and  the  SIGGRAPH  '80 
committee  are  to  be  commended  for  the  quality  of  this 
year's  conference.  Next  year's  conference  will  be  held  in 
Dallas,  Texas,  and  is  scheduled  for  August  3  thru  7. 
Somehow  we  expect  it  to  be  hotter  than  the  75  degrees  of 
Seattle.  If  present  trends  hold  up,  however,  it  will  also  be 
a  fine  and  interesting  conference.  ■ 


Photo  5:  IBM's  Model  3279  color-graphics  terminal.  This  ter- 
minal is  oriented  toward  business  and  management  graphics 
rather  than  toward  engineering  applications. 


Photo  6:  The  Tektronix  Model  4054  features  a  large-screen 
storage  display  tube  and  built-in  cartridge-tape  drive,  with  disk 
drives  optional. 


176       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


WHOLESALE  COMPUTER  PRICES! 
DIRECT  TO  THE  PUBLIC 

12  Meeting  St.,  Cumberland,  R.I.  02864 


NEW! 

ATARI  825 

PRINTER  -  $949 


FREE 

-  ($219.95  value) 


APPLE  II  DISK 

with  Controller  —  $495 


•&$ 


&  1  Box  (5  Pes) 
Diskettes 


i 


NEC  Spinwriter 

5530  or  5510 

$2449 


I 


SOROCIQ120 
$699 


OKIDATA  M1CROUNE  80  -  $529 


FREE 

—  ($95  value  each) 


^•85,-l2899/  « 

EPSON  MX-80  a/^""**^  SI 

80  Character,  9x9  Dot  Matrix//  4 

Roll  &  Pin  Feed  Printer 

for  your  Apple,  TRS-80 

or  Commodore     $500     

&  ^       f ni 

^\VV    Interface  to  ^^"^Ii^Sf  ^ 

Your  Computer  ^^**ii>  jkH 


nMEGA  OFFERS  THE  BEST  DELIVERY  AND  PRICE  ON: 

APPLE  •  ATARI  •  TRS-80  MODEL  II  •  INTERTEC  • 

T.1.810  •  HEWLETT-PACKARD-85  •  SOROC  • 

COMMODORE  •  NEC  •  QCJME  •  CENTRONICS 

OMEGA  sells  only  factory  fresh,  top  quality  merchandise  to  out  customers. 
OMEGA  will  try  to  match  any  current  advertised  price  with  similar  purchase  conditions. 
Before  you  buy  anywhere  else  —  be  sure  to  call  OMEGA  Sales  Co. 
1-401-722-1027 

flMEGA  ships  via  UPS,  truck  or  air.  COD's,  VISA,  Mastercharge  accepted. 
"A  member  in  good  standing  of  the  Better  Business  Bureau." 


•   We  cany  a  complete  line 
of  the  above  equipment 
For  information  and 
further  pricing  call: 


TOLL  FREE 
1-800-556-7586 

TELEX  952106 


Circle  106  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


177 


9K  RAM  (8K  user  available), 
14K  BASIC  interpreter 
operating  system  ROM. 


User-programmable,  in 
both  BASIC  and  MC6800 
machine  language. 


Built-in  RF 
modulator. 

Built-in  sound 
synthesizer. 


Microphone  jack 
enables  you  to 
add  audio  to 
program  tapes. 


Keyword  shift  plate. 


Full,  standard,  53-key 
typewriter  keyboard. 


High  resolution  picture 
on  your  TV  screen,  in 
8  colors. 

256  x  192  graphics  mode. 


All  that  computer  for  $599. 

The  Imagination  Machine, 
the  personal  computer  from  APF  Electronics. 


Ihe  Imagination  Machine  is  more 
personal  computer  than  you'd  expect 
at  $599. 

The  Imagination  Machine  is  a 
superbly  designed,  expandable,  user- 
programmable  computer  system . .  .at 
$599. 

No  other  personal  computer  on  the 
market  can  touch  it,  at  that  price. 

Read  what  it  brings  you: 

First  of  all.  The  Imagination  Machine 
has  9K  RAM  and  14K  BASIC-IN-ROM. 
A  full  53-key  professional,  typewriter 
keyboard.  A  high-resolution  picture  on 
your  TV  set,  in  eight  colors.  Fast 
loading  (1500+  baud  rate),  built-in 
dual-track  cassette  deck,  for  APF's 
digitally  recorded  tape  programs. 
Built-in  sound  synthesizer.  And,  even  a 
built-in  RF  modulator,  which  is  a  $40 
option  on  other  computer  systems. 

All  that,  plus  user-programmability. 

We  know  sophisticated  users  aren't 
going  to  be  satisfied  forever  using 
preprogrammed  software.  (Even 
though  we  offer  a  large  library  of 
educational,  entertainment,  home 
and  business  management  pro- 
grams.) So,  we  made  The  Imagination 
Machine  user  programmable,  in  both 
BASIC  and  MC6800  machine  lan- 
guage. To  simplify  matters,  we've  just 
developed  the  first  and  only  BASIC 
TUTOR  course  on  cassette.  With  it,  you 
can  learn  to  program  The  Imagination 
Machine  in  BASIC,  with  hands-on 
training,  right  at  the  computer. 

Some  exceptional  features. 

The  Imagination  Machine  has  several 
unique  features  that  can  help  you 
use  your  time  at  the  computer  more 
effectively. 

For  example,  it  stores  programs  and 
data  on  the  same  cassette  tape.  (With 
other  computers,  you  have  to  read 
programs  from  one  tape  into  the 
computer,  remove  the  tape,  put  in 
another  tape  and  store  your  data  on 
the  new  tape.) 

Another  special  feature  is  The 
Imagination  Machine's  unique 
keyword  system,  which  simplifies 


BASIC  programming.  The  machine 
has  24  different  programs  statements 
and  commands  printed  at  the  top  of 
the  keyboard.  You  can  enter  these  24 
into  your  program  without  retyping 
them  every  time  you  use  them.  Instead 
of  typing  out  "PRINT;'  for  example,  you 
just  press  two  keys  and  the  word 
appears  on  the  screen.  The  system 
helps  prevent  typing  errors  and  can 
speed  up  entering  programs. 

A  third  feature  is  Timed  Response 
Monitoring,  which  automatically 
adjusts  the  computer's  pace  and 
level  to  your  own.  It  makes  "tutoring 
programs!'  for  instance,  easier  and 
more  interesting  to  follow. 

And  then  there  are  The  Imagination 
Machine's  three  graphic  display 
modes:  1  Alpha  numerics,  mixed  with 
low-resolution  graphics  in  as  many  as 
eight  colors.  2.  High  resolution  —  up 
to  eight  colors  —  128  x  192  display. 
3.  High  resolution  graphics  —  up  to 
four  colors  —  with  256  x  192  display. 

And  expandability. 

A  personal  computer  that  can't  grow 
along  with  your  growing  requirements 
soon  becomes  obsolete.  So,  we 
designed  The  Imagination  Machine  to 
be  expandable.  By  adding  APF's 
optional  "Expansion  Box"  and  inter- 
face cartridges,  you  can  hook  up  any 
compatible  floppy  disk  or  printer,  or  an 
additional  8K  RAM  memory  cartridge. 


Full  mini-floppy  system 


$995. 


system.  In  that  case,  order  APF's 
System  II.  It  includes  The  Imagination 
Machine,  the  "Expansion  Box"  floppy 
disk  interface  and  72K-byte,  mini- 
floppy disk  drive.  All  for  just  $995!  No 
one  can  come  close  to  that  price. 

You  can't  beat  our  prices 
or  our  guarantee. 

If  you  can  find  a  better  personal 
computer  system  for  the  money,  let  us 
know.  In  the  meantime,  we  stand  by 
our  statement:  There  is  no  other  per- 
sonal computer  on  the  market  that 
offers  so  much  for  so  little.  And  if  you 
order  now,  we'll  even  include  our 
$19.95  APF  Technical  Reference 
Manual,  with  complete  schematics, 
absolutely  free. 

Order  The  Imagination  Machine 
directly  from  APF  Electronics,  with  the 
assurance  that  if  you  are  not  com- 
pletely satisfied,  you  can  return  it  within 
30  days  of  purchase  for  a  complete 
refund.  To  order,  or  to  learn  the  name 
of  the  dealer  nearest  you,  call  TOLL 
FREE  1-800-223-1264.  New  York 
residents  call  212-869-1960.  Master- 
Card and  VISA  accepted. 


Price  list: 

System  I, 

The  Imagination  Machine. 

$599. 

System  II,  Mini-floppy  System 
(Includes  The  Imagination 
Machine,  BB-2,  and  Mini- 
floppy Disk  Drive). 

$995. 

BB-1.  Expansion  Box  with 
RS232  cartridge. 

$199.95 

BB-2.  Expansion  Box  with 
floppy  disk  interface 
cartridge. 

$199.95 

8K  RAM  memory  cartridge. 

$  99.95 

RS232  cartridge. 

$149.95 

Floppy-disk  interface 
cartridge. 

$149.95 

Mini-floppy  Disk  Drive. 

$399.95 

For  small  business  and  professional 
use,  you  may  require  a  full  mini-floppy 


$599.  Manufacturer's  suggested  retail  price. 

relectronics  inc. 


1501  Broadway  New  York.  NY  10036 


Circle  107  on  Inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980        179 


A  Simplified  Theory 
of  Video  Graphics 


This  is  an  interesting  time  for 
choosing  a  personal  computer, 
especially  if  you  are  looking  for  one 
with  a  graphics  display.  As  you  can 
see  from  the  summary  of  specifica- 
tions in  table  1,  the  available  graphics 
capabilities  of  the  personal  computers 
are  all  different,  and  no  one  model 
has  a  clear  advantage  over  all  the 
others.  To  make  your  choice  even 
more  difficult,  some  models  exhibit 
undocumented  quirks  that  are  not  ap- 
parent from  the  specifications. 

Your  choice  of  a  video-graphics 
system  will  depend  on  what  you  want 
to  do  with  graphics  and  on  the  perfor- 
mance of  the  different  computers. 
While  I  can't  help  with  the  first  aspect 
of  your  decision,  I  may  be  able  to 
help  you  understand  system  perfor- 
mance by  explaining  the  operating 
principles  of  video  displays  and 
describing  the  various  combinations 
of  features  available  on  popular  per- 
sonal computers. 

The  Importance  of  Video 
Graphics 

Many  applications  of  personal 
computers  are  modeled  on  conven- 
tional practices  that  have  been 
developed  over  a  period  of  several 


About  the  Author 

Allen  Watson  III  began  writing  FORTRAN 
programs  for  scientific  analysis  soon  after 
receiving  his  bachelor's  degree  in  mathematics. 
Later,  as  a  full-time  programmer,  he  wrote 
IBM  System/360  assembly-language  programs 
for  the  computer-aided  design  of  calculators 
and  has  prepared  and  presented  training 
courses  about  the  Fairchild  F-8  and  Motorola 
6800.  Allen  is  currently  writing  and  editing 
user  manuals  for  Apple  computers. 


180        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Parti 


Allen  Watson  HI 

1261  Robbia  Ct 

Sunnyvale  CA  94087 


years,  while  graphics  displays  have 
been  too  expensive  for  general  use 
until  quite  recently.  Many  existing 
computer  programs  do  not  use  even 
the  simplest  graphics,  although  there 
are  several  notable  exceptions, 
such  as  chess  games  that  use  high- 
resolution  graphics  to  display  the 
board  and  pieces,  and  music  editors 
that  display  standard  musical  nota- 
tion. 

Here's  the  important  point: 
computer-graphics  displays  can  pro- 
duce schematic  diagrams,  music 
scores,  flowcharts,  architectural 
drawings,  and  the  like  that  are  much 
easier  for  the  person  using  the  com- 
puter to  understand  than  the 
unadorned  columns  of  numbers  that 
are  usually  associated  with  com- 
puters. Of  course,  you  still  might  not 
be  able  to  afford  video-graphics 
displays  as  powerful  as  the  one  used 
by  NASA  to  simulate  the  view  seen 
by  the  pilot  of  the  space  shuttle  dur- 
ing its  return  from  orbit.  Even  though 
they  have  their  limitations,  the  cur- 
rent small-computer  displays  will 
enable  you  to  do  a  lot  of  interesting 
things. 

Raster-Scan  Video 

While  there  are  several  different 
ways  of  displaying  information  on  a 
video  screen,  all  of  the  personal  com- 
puters presently  available  use  the 
same  kind  of  raster-scan  technique 
that  ordinary  television  does.  We'll 
take  a  look  at  the  basic  features  of 
this  technique,  since  they  are  shared 
by  all  inexpensive  video  displays. 

Television  is  an  imperfect  com- 
promise among  several  factors: 

•  resolution,  which  determines  how 


much  detail  we  can  display 

•  frame  rate  (to  be  discussed  later), 
which  is  the  number  of  complete  pic- 
tures transmitted  in  1  second 

•  bandwidth,  a  measure  of  the  fre- 
quency response,  of  the  equipment 
involved 

An  increase  either  in  resolution  or 
in  frame  rate  requires  an  increase  in 
bandwidth,  which  adds  to  the  cost  of 
the  equipment.  If  we  must  keep 
within  a  limited  bandwidth,  we  can 
obtain  better  resolution  only  at  the 
expense  of  jerkier  motion  and  vice 
versa.  There  is  a  type  of  television 
called  slow-scan,  for  example,  that 
manages  to  transmit  reasonably 
detailed  images  over  the  narrow- 
bandwidth  channels  used  by  amateur 
radio  operators,  but  the  resulting 
frame  rate  is  so  low  that  the  illusion 
of  motion  is  lost.  We  will  see  how 
much  bandwidth  is  necessary  for 
ordinary  television  after  we  look  at 
the  raster-scan  process  itself. 

If  we  display  a  sequence  of  images 
that  change  only  slightly  from  one  to 
the  next,  and  do  it  fast  enough,  the 
eye  will  not  be  able  to  separate  them: 
persistence  of  vision  will  cause  the 
separate  images  to  fuse  into  a  "mov- 
ing" picture.  In  order  to  transmit  such 
a  sequence  of  images  electronically, 
each  image  must  be  dissected  into  a 
series  of  dots  that  may  be  transmitted 
one  at  a  time.  The  television  camera 
does  this  by  rapidly  scanning  the  im- 
age in  a  series  of  horizontal  lines 
which  form  a  raster.  The  lines  are 
scanned  one  after  another  in  the  same 
way  that  a  person  scans  the  lines  of 
letters  on  a  printed  page.  Reading  is  a 
process   of   converting   information, 


Start  learning  and  computing  for  only  $129. 95  witn  a  Netronics  8085-based 
computer  kit.  Then  expand  it  in  low-cost  steps  to  a  business/development  system 
with  64k  or  more  RAM,  8"  floppy  disk  drives,  hard  disks  and  multi-  terminal  I/O. 

THE  NEW  EXPLORER/86  SYSTEM 


Special!  Full  8"  floppy,  64k  system  for  less  than  the  price  of  a 

.    ,,,„„„„  .,  (Also  available  wired  &  tested.  $1799.95) 

Imagine  —  tor  only  $129.95  you  can  own  the  starting 
level  of  Explorer/85,  a  computer  that's  expandable  into 
full  business/development  capabilities  —  a  computer 
that  can  be  your  beginner  system,  an  OEM  controller, 
or  an  IBM-formatted  8"  disk  small  business  system. 
From  the  first  day  you  own  Explorer/85,  you  begin 
computing  on  a  significant  level,  and  applying  princi- 
ples discussed  in  leading  computer  magazines.  Ex- 
plorer/85 features  the  advanced  Intel  8085  cpu.  which 
is  100%  compatible  with  the  older  8080A.  It  offers  on- 
board S-100  bus  expansion.  Microsoft  BASIC  in  ROM. 
plus  instant  conversion  to  mass  storage  disk  memory 
with  standard  IBM-formatted  8"  disks.  All  for  only 
$129-95,  plus  the  cost  of  power  supply,  keyboard/ 
terminal  and  RF  modulator  if  you  don't  have  them  (see 
our  remarkable  prices  below  for  these  and  other,  ac- 
cessories). With  a  Hex  Keypad/display  front  panel. 
Level  "A"  can  be  programmed  with  no  need  for  a  ter- 
minal, ideal  for  a  controller,  OEM.  or  a  real  low-cost 

start. 

■*\k  ""<&.  Level  "A"  is  a 

complete  operating 

system. perfect  for 
^beginners,  hobbyists, 
P""*    Industrial  controller 

use.  $129.95 


mini 


Only  $1499.95! 


Full  8"  disk  system  for  less  than  the  price  of  a  mini    (shown  with 
Nelronics  Explorer/85  computer  and  new  terminnl).  System  features 
floppy  drive  from  Control  Data  Corp..  world's  largest  maker  of 
memory  storage  systems  (not  a  hobby  brand.') 


Level  "A" 
With  Hex 
Keypad/Display. 


nal  256  bytes  located  in  the  815SA).  The  static  RAM 
can  be  located  anywhere  from  fttSftl  to  EFFF  in  4k 
blocks. 

LEVEL  "E"  SPECIFICATIONS 
Level  "E"  adds  sockets  for  8k  of  EPROM  to  use  the 
popular  Intel  2716  or  the  TI  2516.  It  includes  all  sockets, 
power  supply  regulator,  heat  sink,  filtering  and  decou- 
pling components.  Sockets  may  also  be  used  for  2k  x  8 
RAM  IC's  (allowing  for  up  to  12k  of  onboard  RAM). 
DISK  DRIVE  SPECIFICATIONS 

•  8"  CONTROL  DATA  CORP  •  Data  capacity;  401.016  bytes 
professional  drive.  (SD).  802.032  bytes  (DD). 

•  LSI  controller  unformatted. 

•  Write  protect.  •  Access  time:  25ms  (one 

•  Singleordoubledensity.  track). 

DISK  CONTROLLER/  I/O  BOARD 
SPECIFICATIONS 

•  Cont.ols  up  lo  four  8"  drives. 

•  1771 A  LSI  (SD)  floppy  disk 
controller. 

•  Onboard  data  separator 
(IBM  compatible). 

•  2  Serial  I/O  ports 

•  Autobool  to  disk  system 
when  system  reset. 


LEVEL  "A"  SPECIFICATIONS 

Explorer/85's  Level  "A"  system  features  the  advanced 
Intel  8085  cpu,  an  8355  ROM  with  2k  deluxe  monitor/ 
operating  system,  and  an  advanced  8155  RAM  I/O  .  .  . 
all  on  a  single  motherboard  with  room  for  RAM/ROM/ 
PROM/EPROM  and  S-100  expansion,  plus  generous 
prototyping  space. 

PC  Board;  Glass  epoxy,  plated  through  holes  with 
solder  mask.  ■  I/O:  Provisions  for  25-pin  (DB25)  con- 
nector for  terminal  serial  I/O,  which  can  also  support  a 
paper  tape  reader  .  .  .  cassette  tape  recorder  input  and 
output  .  .  .  cassette  tape  control  output  .  .  .  LED  output 
indicator  on  SOD  (serial  output)  line  .  .  .  printer  inter- 
face (less  drivers)  .  .  .  total  of  four  8-bit  plus  one  6-bit 
I/O  ports.  •  Crystal  Frequency:  6.144  MHz.  •  Control 
Switches:  Reset  and  user  (RST  7.5)  interrupt  .  .  .  addi- 
tional provisions  for  RST  5.5,  6.5  and  TRAP  interrupts 
onboard.  •  Counter/ Timer  Programmable.  14-bit  bi- 
nary. •  System  RAM:  256  bytes  located  at  F800.  ideal 
for  smaller  systems  and  for  use  as  an  isolated  stack 
area  in  expanded  systems  .  .  .  RAM  expandable  to  64K 
via  S-100  bus  or  4k  on  motherboard. 

System  Monitor  (Terminal  Version):  2k  bytes  of 
deluxe  system  monitor  ROM  located  at  F000.  leaving 
(Wife  free  for  user  RAM/ROM.  Features  include  tape 
load  with  labeling  .  .  .  examine/change  contents  of 
memory .  .  .  insert  data  .  .  .  warm  start .  .  .  examine  and 
change  all  registers  .  .  .  single  step  with  register  display 
at  each  break  point,  a  debugging/training  feature  ...  go 
lo  execution  address  .  .  .  move  blocks  or  memory  from 
one  location  to  another  .  .  .  fill  blocks  of  memory  with  a 
constant  .  .  .  display  blocks  of  memory  .  .  .  automatic 
baud  rate  selection  lo  9600  baud  .  .  .  variable  display 
line  length  control  (1-255  characters /line)  .  .  .  chan- 
nelized I/O  monitor  routine  with  8-bit  parallel  output 
for  high-speed  printer  .  .  .  serial  console  in  and  console 
OUt  channel  so  that  monitor  can  communicate  with  I/O 
ports. 

System  Monitor  (Hex  Keypad/Display  Version): 
Tape  load  with  labeling  .  .  .  lape  dump  wilh  labeling 
.  .  .  examine/change  contents  of  memory  .  .  .  insert  data 
.    .  warm  start    .  .  examine  and  change  all  registers  .  .  . 


single  step  with  register  display  al  each  break  point  .  .  . 
go  to  execution  address.  Level  "A"  in  this  version 
makes  a  perfect  controller  for  industrial  applications, 
and  is  programmed  using  the  Netronics  Hex  Keypad/ 
Display.  It  is  low  cost,  perfect  for  beginners. 
HEX  KEYPAD/DISPLAY  SPECIFICATIONS 
Calculator  type  keypad  with  24  system-defined  and  16 
user-defined  keys.  Six  digil  calculator-type  display, 
that  displays  full  address  plus  data  as  well  as  register 
and  status  information. 
LEVEL  "B"  SPECIFICATIONS 
Level  "B"   provides  the  S-100  signals   plus   buffers/ 
drivers  lo  support  up  to  six  S-100  bus  boards,  and  in- 
cludes: address  decoding  for  onboard  4k  RAM  expan- 
sion selectable  in  4k  blocks  . .  .  address  decoding  for 
onboard  8k  EPROM  expansion  selectable  in  8k  blocks 
. ,  .  address  and  data  bus  drivers  for  onboard  expansion 
.  .  .  wait  state  generator  (jumper  selectable),  to  allow  the 
use  of  slower  memories  . .  .  two  separate  5  volt  regula- 

LEVEL  "C"  SPECIFICATIONS 

Level  "C"  expands  Explorer/85' s  motherboard  with  a 
card  cage,  allowing  you  to  plug  up  to  six  S-100  cards 
directly  into  the  motherboard.  Both  cage  and  card  are 
neatly  contained  inside  Explorer's  deluxe  steel 
cabinet.  Level  "C"  includes  a  sheet  metal  superstruc- 
ture, a  5-card.  gold  plated  S-100  extension  PC  board 
that  plugs  into  the  motherboard.  |usl  add  required 
number  of  S-100  connectors. 


LEVEL  "D"  SPECIFICATIONS 

Level  "D"  provides  4k  of  RAM,  power  supply  regula- 
tion, filtering  decoupling  components  and  sockets  to 
expand  your  Explorer/85  memory  lo  4k  (plus  the  origi- 


•  2716  PROM  socket  included 
for  use  in  custom 
applications, 

•  Onboard  crystal  controlled. 

•  Onboard  I/O  baud  rate 
generators  to 9600  baud. 

•  Double-sided  PC  board 
(glass  epoxy.) 

DISK  DRIVE  CABINET/POWER  SUPPLY 

•  Deluxe  steel  cabinet  with  individual  power  supply  for  max- 
imum reliability  and  stability. 

ORDER  A  COORDINATED 
EXPLORER/85  APPLICATIONS 
PAR! 

Beginner's  Pak  (Save  $26.00!)—  Buy  Level  "A"  (Ter- 
minal Version)  wilh  Monitor  Source  Listing  and  API 
5-amp  Power  Supply:  (regular  price  $199.95).  now  at 
SPECIAL  PRICE:  $169.95  plus  post.  &  insur. 
Experimenter's  Pak  II  (Save  $53.40!)  —  Buy  Level 
"A"  (Hex  Keypad/Display  Version)  with  Hex 
Keypad/Display.  Intel  8085  User  Manual.  Level  "A" 
Hex  Monitor  Source  Listing,  and  AP-1  5-amp  Power 
Supply:  (regular  price  $279.35),  all  al  SPECIAL 
PRICE:  $219.95  plus  post.  &  insur. 
Special  Microsoft  BASIC  Pak  (Save  $103.00!)  —  In- 
cludes Level  "A"  (Terminal  Version).  Level  "B ", 
Level  "□"  (4k  RAM),  Level  "E ".  8k  Microsoft  in 
ROM.  Intel  8085  User  Manual.  Level  "A"  Monitor 
Source  Listing,  and  AP-1  5-amp  Power  Supply:  (regu- 
lar price  $439.70),  now  yours  at  SPECIAL  PRICE: 
$329.95  plus  post.  &  insur. 

ADD  A  TERMINAL  WITH  CABINET, 
GET  A  FREE  RF  MODULATOR:  Save 
over  $114  at  this  SPECIAL  PRICE:  $499.95 
plus  post.  &  insur. 
Special  8"  Disk  Edition  Explorer/85  (Save  over  $104!) 
—  Includes  disk-version  Level  "A".  Level  "B".  two 
S-100  connectors  and  brackets,  disk  controller.  64k 
RAM,  AP-1  5-amp  powersupply.  Explorer/85  deluxe 
steel  cabinet,  cabinet  fan.  8"  SD/DD  disk  drive  from 
famous    CONTROL   DATA   CORP    (not    a    hobby 
brand!),  drive  cabinet  with  power  supply,  and  drive 
cable  set-up  for  two  drives.  This  package  includes 
everything  but  terminal  and  printers  (see  coupon  for 
them).   Regular  price  $1630.30.  all  yours  in  kit  at 
SPECIAL  PRICE:  $1499.95  plus  post.  &  insur.  Wired 
and  tested,  only  $1799.95. 

Special!  Complete  Business  Software  Pak  (Save 
$625.00!)  —  Includes  CP/M  2.0.  Microsoft  BASIC:. 
General  Ledger.  Accounts  Receivable.  Accounts 
Payable.  Payroll  Package:  (regular  price $1325).  vours 
now  at  SPECIAL  PRICE:  $699.95. 


Please  send  the  items  checked  below: 

G  Explorer/85  Level  "A"  kit  (Terminal  Version).  .  .  $129.95  plus 

$:)  post.  &  insur. 
D  Explorer/85  Level  "A"  kit  [  Hex  Keypad/Display  Version) .    . 

$129.95  plus  $3  post.  &  insur. 
:  ]  8k  Mil  result  BASIC  "i   cassette  lape.  $64.95  postpaid. 
Q  Ilk  Microsoft  BASIC  in  ROM  kit  {requires  Levels    1)1)    anil 

"E") .  .    $99.95  plus  $2  post.  S  insur. 
n  Level  "It"  IS-  IIKII  kit        $49.95  plus  $2  post  &  insur. 

n  Level  "C"  (S-100  6-card  expander  |  kit      $39.95  plus  $2  post 

&  insur. 
D  Level  "D"  (4k  RAM)  kit       $69.95  plus  $2  post.  S  insur. 
n  Level  "E"  (EPROM/ROM)  kit        $5.95  plus  50<r  p&h 

□  Deluxe  Sleel  Cabinet  fur  Kxplorer/85  $40.95  plus  $3  post 
K  insur. 

□  Fan  For  Cabinet  .  .  .  $15.00 plus  $1.50  post-  &  insur. 

□  ASCII  Keyboard/Computer  Terminal  kit:  features  a  full  128 
character  set.  u&l  case;  full  cursor  control:  75  ohm  video 
output:  convertible  to  baudnt  output:  selectable  baud  rale. 
RS232-C  or  20  ma.  I/O.  32  or  64  character  by  tfi  line  formats, 
andean  be  used  wilh  either  a  CRT  monitor  or  a  TV  set  (if  vou 
have  an  RF  modulator)    .  .  $149.95  plus  $3.00  post.  S  insur. 

□  DeLuxe  Steel  Cabinet  for  ASCII  keyboard/terminal  . 
$19.95  plus  $2.50  post.   .  insur. 

:  ;  New!  Terminal/ Monitor:  (See  photo)  Same  features  as  above 

except  12"  monitor  with  keyboard  and  terminal  is  in  deluxe 

single  cabinet,  kit  .  .  .  $399.95  plus  $7  post.  &  insur. 

D  Ha/.elline  terminals:  ( )ur  prices  loo  low  to  quote  —  CALL  US 

G  Lear-Slgler  terminals/printers:  Our  prices  too  low  lo  quote: 

CALL  US 
]  Hex  Keypad/Display  kit       $69.95  plus  $2 ■  ,v  insur. 


□  AP-1  PowerSupply  KII±8V  ©5  amps)  in  deluxe  steel  cabinet 

.  $39.95  plus  $2  post.  &  insur. 
a  Gold  Plated  S- 100  Bus  Connectors       $4.85  each,  postpaid 

□  RF  Modulator  kfl  I  allows  you  to  use  your  TV  set  as  a  monitor) 
...$8.95  postpaid. 

G  16k  RAM klllS  too  board  expands  lo  64k)    .    $199.95 plus  $2 

post  &  insur. 
D  32k  RAM  kit       $299.95  plus  $2  post.  &  insur. 

□  48k  RAM  kit       $399.95plus  $2  posl.it  insur. 
[  j  64k  RAM  kit        $499.95  plus  $2  post.  &  insur. 

D  1 6k  RAM  Expansion  kit  (to  expand  anv  of  the  above  in  16k 

blocks  up  to  64k)  .  .    $99.95  plus  $2  post.  &  insur.  each 
:  :  Intel  8085  cpu  Users'  Manual     .  $7.50 postpaid. 
a  12"  Video  Monitor  (lOMHz  bandwidth)  .    .  $139.95  plus  $5 

post.  &  insur. 
D  Beginner's  Pak  (see  above)  $169.95  plus  $4  post.  &  insur. 
n  Experimenter's  Pak  (see  above]       $219.95  plus  $6  post.  & 

insur. 
G  Special  Microsoft  BASIC  Pak  Without  Terminal  i  set  :ah  nve| 

$329.95  plus  $7  post.  &  insur. 
D  Same  as  above,  plus  ASCII  Keyboard  Terminal  With  Cabinet, 

Gel  Free  RF  Modulator  (see  above)     .  $499.95  plus  $10  pest. 

&  insur 

a  Special  8"  Disk  Edition  Explorer/85  (see  above)      $1498.95 

plus  S26  posl.  &  insur 

D  Wired  &Tesled .  ,    $1799.95  plus  $26  post.  K  insur. 
O  Extra  8"  CDC  Floppy  Drives     .  $499.95  plus  $12  post  &  insur. 
D  Cabinet  &  Power  Supply  For  Drive      S69.95  plus  $3  post  & 

insur. 

□  Drive  Cable  Set -up  For  Two  Drives       $25  plus  $1.50  post.  & 
insur. 


G  Disk  Controller  Board  Wilh  I/O  Ports       $199.95  plus  $2  posl 

&  insur. 
G  Special:  Complete  Business  Software  Pak  (see  above)  .    . 

$699.96  postpaid. 
SOLD  SEPARATF.LY 

GCP/M  1.4.      $IOOposlpaid. 

G  CP/M  2.0       $150  postpaid. 

G  Microsoft  BASIC        $325  postpaid 

G  Intel  8085  cpu  User  Manual      87.50  postpaid. 
G  Level  "A"  Monitor  Source  Lisllng       I3S  postpaid, 
^g*     Continental  USA  Credit  (ard  Buyers  Outside  Connecticut     gw 

m  CALL  TOLL  FREE:  800-24:1-7428  m 

|H      To  Order  From  Connecticut  Or  For  Technical       ^V 
™  Assistance,  call  (203)  354-9375  ~ 

Total  Enclosed  (Conn  res.  add  sales  tax)  S    

Paid  By: 

D  Personal  Check  D  Cashier's  Check/Money  Order 

□  VISA        □  Master  Charge  (Bank  No . ) 

Accl.  No.  Exp.  Date 

Signature   

Print 

Name    

Address   

Citt 


Sly_ 


15b 


.Zip- 


NETRONICS  Research  &  Development  Lid. 
333  Litchfield  Road,  New  Milford,  CT  06776 


Circle  108  on  Inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


181 


Circle  109  on  Inquiry  card. 


CP/M® 
SOFTWARE 

8080  Emulator 

RAID  is  a  software-based  system  rivaling 
hardware  emulators  costing  thousands  of 
dollars.  RAID  is  absolutely  the  most  ad- 
vanced and  sophisticated  debugging  sys- 
tem ever  developed  for  a  computer.  Fully 
symbolic,  including  labels,  operands  and 
op-code  mnemonics,  RAID  combines 
real-time  and  emulation  modes  in  a  single 
package.  Tracing  by  prime  path,  indi- 
vidual instructions,  subroutines  and 
breakpoints  is  supported.  Special  feature 
allows  emulation  and  real-time  modes  to 
function  together  for  high  speed  emula- 
tions. Other  features  include  memory 
search  facilities,  disk  access  by  track  and 
sector,  single-step,  multi-step,  block 
move,  user-selectable  radix,  etc.  Over  70 
commands  in  all.  Requires  24K  min. 
CP/M®2  system. 

Raid $250 

Manual  only $  25 


ISIS1  Conversion 

ISIS1  to  CP/M®  conversion  utilities  permit 
CP/M®  users  to  read  or  write  files  to  or 
from  an  ISIS1  diskette.  The  package  con- 
sists of  three  utility  programs  that  read, 
write  and  display  the  ISIS1  directory. 

ISIS'  -  CP/M®  Utilities $250 

Manual  only $     5 


Floating  Point  Package 

'FPP'  is  a  set  of  8080  assembly  language 
subroutines  that  provide  12  digit  BCD 
arithmetic  functions  for  add,  subtract, 
multiply,  and  divide.  BCD  arithmetic 
means  no  conversion  errors  and  minimal 
conversion  time.  Source  code  is  supplied 
on  standard  8"  diskette. 

FPP  on  CP/M*  diskette  $200 

FPP  on  ISIS'  diskette $200 

Manual  only $  10 


/ISIS  is  a  trademark  o(  Intel  Corporation. 
"CP/M*  is  a  registered  trademark  of  Digital  Re- 
search. 


SOUTHERN 
COMPUTER 
SYSTEMS, 
Inc. 


586  Shades  Crest  Road 
Birmingham,  Al. 

Send  check  or  money  order  to: 
P.O.  Box  3373  A 
Birmingham,  Al.  35205 
Phone:205  933-1659 


Computer  Model 

Apple  II 

Atari  400  and  800 

Commodore  PET 
Compucolor  II 
Exidy  Sorcerer 
Radio  Shack  TRS-80 


Text: 
Lines  by 
Characters 

24  by  40 

24  by  40 

25  by  40 
32  by  64 
30  by  64 
16  by  64 


Texas  Instruments  TI-99/4  24  by  32 


Graphics: 

Aspect 

Method      Resolution  Ratio 

Subcell        40  by  48  4:3 

Mapping      280  by  192  4:3 

Subcell        160  by  80  8:5 

Mapping      280  by  192  4:3 

Special        320  by  200  4:3 

Subcell        128  by  128  4:3 

Special        512  by  240  4:3 

Subcell        128  by  48  4:3 

Special        256  by  192  4:3 


No 
of 

16 
6 

16 
4 


Color: 

Method 

NTSC 
NTSC 

NTSC 
NTSC 


8     R-G-B 


16      NTSC 


Table  1:  A  summary  of  some  of  the  features  available  in  personal  computer 
displays.  The  graphics  capabilities  of  available  personal  computers  differ,  and  no 
one  model  seems  to  have  a  clear  advantage.  NTSC  (National  Television  System 
Committee)  indicates  that  American-standard  color-video  conventions  are  used. 
R-G-B  indicates  that  separate  red,  green,  and  blue  video  signals  are  sent  to  the 
monitor. 


which  is  actually  all  present  on  the 
page  simultaneously,  into  a  sequence 
of  words  that  follow  one  another  in 
time.  In  a  similar  fashion,  the  raster- 
scan  process  converts  a  picture  into  a 
sequence  of  rapidly  changing  signal 
levels  which  represent  the  brightness 
of  successive  points  on  each  scanning 
line. 

When  this  rapidly  changing  signal 
is  picked  up  by  a  television-receiving 
set,  it  is  converted  back  into  a  visible 
raster  on  the  screen  of  the  picture 
tube.  The  neck  of  the  picture  tube 
contains  an  electron  gun  that  projects 
a  beam  of  electrons  onto  a  thin  layer 
of  phosphor  on  the  inside  of  the 
screen.  Wherever  the  electron  beam 
strikes  the  phosphor  it  produces  a 
spot  of  light  whose  brightness 
depends  on  the  intensity  of  the  signal 
being  received. 

If  the  electron  beam  is  swept  across 
the  screen  so  that  the  spot  of  light  is 
always  in  the  same  relative  position 
as  the  scanning  dot  in  the  camera,  the 
picture  will  be  recreated  on  the 
screen.  The  circuits  in  the  television 
set  controlling  the  position  of  the 
beam  must  be  able  to  keep  in  step 
with  the  camera,  so  the  picture  infor- 
mation is  interrupted  for  a  short  time 
at  the  end  of  each  line  (and  for  a 
longer  time  at  the  end  of  each  frame). 
During  these  intervals  the  signal  is 
changed  to  an  intensity  level  that  is 
never  used  for  picture  information, 
thus  creating  synchronization  pukes 
that  the  television  circuits  can 
distinguish  from  the  picture  signal. 

In  this  country,  the  repetition  rate 
for  the  picture-scanning  process  was 


set  at  60  scans  per  second  so  that  in- 
terference from  the  60  Hz  AC  power 
line  will  be  synchronized;  that  is,  any 
visible  interference  effect  will  stand 
still  on  the  screen  and  be  less 
noticeable  than  it  would  be  if  it  were 
moving.  Scanning  the  entire  picture 
60  times  per  second  amounts  to  a  lot 
of  information  per  unit  of  time,  and 
thus  requires  a  very  wide  bandwidth. 
The  television  designers  discovered 
that  they  could  cut  the  bandwidth 
requirement  in  half  by  making  the 
camera  scan  every  other  line  during 
alternate  scanning  cycles  called  fields. 
Two  successive  fields  cover  all  the 
lines  in  the  raster  30  times  each 
second,  to  make  a  frame.  (See  figure 
1.)  Since  the  lines  of  the  two  alternate 
fields  mesh  between  each  other,  this 
technique  is  called  interlaced  scan- 
ning. 

This  seems  like  a  rather  com- 
plicated way  of  getting  30  frames  per 
second,  and  you  may  be  wondering 
whether  television  wouldn't  work  just 
as  well  with  a  straightforward  scan  of 
the  entire  raster,  30  times  per  second. 
This  concept  is  fine  as  far  as  the  60  Hz 
power-line  interference  is  concerned, 
but  30  frames  per  second  is  too  slow 
for  the  human  eye  to  merge  the  image 
into  a  continuous  picture  without 
noticeable  flicker.  If  you  are  familiar 
with  filmed  motion  pictures,  you 
know  that  they  are  projected  at  only 
24  frames  per  second,  but  a  shutter 
interrupts  each  frame  so  that  the  ef- 
fective flicker  rate  is  actually  48 
frames  per  second,  fast  enough  for 
motion  to  appear  continuous. 

There  are  other  factors  which  also 


182        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  110  on  Inquiry  card. 


Data  Terminals  From 

MICROMAIL?  YES, 


Because  We  Offer. . . . 


...  A  'Personal  Approach' 


Towards  the  Quick  and  Efficient 
Handling  of  Your  Individual 
Order. 


. . .  Inventory. 


The  Equipment  You  Select  is 
Readily  Available  from  Our  Stock. 


...Terminals  Onlv. 


We  Specialize  in  Data  Terminal 
Equipment. 


Z^7lsMEW 


DIABLO 630 

•  Uses  metalized  or  plastic  print 
wheels. 

•  Automatic  bi-directional  printing. 

•  Maximum  print  speed  is  40 
characters/second. 

•  Variable  column  spacing,  120  posi- 
tions/inch. 

•  Variable  line  spacing,  48  posi- 
tions/inch. 

•  Forms  control;  bi-direcitonal  paper 
feed;  horizontal,  and  vertical  tabs; 
left,  right,  top  and  bottom  margins. 

$1999.00 

Optional  Forms  Tractor  -  $200.00 


DIABLO 1650 

•  Prints  at  40  cps,  using  88,  92,  or  96 
char,  metalized  printwheels. 

•  Vertical  resolution  1/48".  Horizon- 
tal 1/120".  Capable  of  proportional 
spacing,  bidirectional  printing,  and 
graphics  under  software  control. 

•  Bidirectional  normal  and  direct 
tabs.  Left,  right,  top  and  bottom 
margins.  _  _    >._-__  __ 

R.O.  $2890.00 
KSR  $3155.00 


DIABLO 1640 

•  Uses  plastic  printwheel  and  prints 
at  45  cps.  Otherwise,  shares  iden- 
tical features  with  1650  including: 

-  Friction  or  tractor  feed,  up  to 
15"  wide. 

—  Cartridge  ribbon,  fabric  or 

carbon         R.O.  $2745.00 
KSR  $3050.00 


•  Includes  upper/lower  case  option. 

•  Bidirectional  printing  at  150  cps. 

•  Tractor-feed  forms,  3"  to  15"  wide. 

$1599.00 

Options: 

—  Forms  length  control -$100.00 

—  Vertical  Format  Control  with 
Compressed  Print-$125.00 


DECwriter 


LA  34 


(Shown   with   optional   forms   tractor   and 
numeric  keypad). 

•  Prints  10,  12,  13.2,  or  16.5 
characters  per  inch,  upper/lower 
case. 

•  2,  3,  4,  6,  8,  or  12  lines  per  inch. 

•  Friction  feed,  paper  width  to  15 
inches.  AM«M.  «« 

Options:  $96900 

-  Numeric  keypad  —  $80.00 

—  Adjustable  forms  tractor  — 
$130.00  TVj 

I  Model 'AA'      $1,099.00 


,  More  Performance /or  Your  | 


SOROC 


Displays  80  x  24,  upper/lower 
case. 

Separate  numeric  keypad  and 
cursor  keys. 

Protected  fields  displayed  at 
reduced  intensity. 

$689.00 


MO,re    Than  f  I.  810! 

Dollar  Than  ••'■ » 


ANADEX     DP-9500/9501 

•  High  Density  Graphics 

•  Parallel,  RS-232C,  and  Current 
Loop  interfaces  standard. 

•  Double  width  printing 

•  132/175  or  132/220  columns. 

•  50  to  220+  lines/min.,  150/200 
CPS  9x7/7x9  font  or  120/200 
CPS  with  11x9/7x9  font. 

•  9-wire  print  head,  650  million 
character  life. 

•  Bi-Directional  printing  with 
shortest  distance  sensing  logic. 

•  Adjustable  width  tractor  paper 

Call  For  Low  Price 


SOROC 


IQ140 


117-key  detachable  keyboard 
with  numeric  cluster  and  cursor 
control. 

Insert/delete  line,  insert/delete 
character. 

Underline,  blink,  reverse,  Vi  in- 
tensity, protected  and  blank 
fields. 

Printer  port  with  independent 
baud  rate -prints  line,  partial  or 
full  screen. 


$1099.00 


eKHCHQKIfHLd 


MICROMAIL  •  BOX  3297  •  SANTA  ANA,  CA  92703 
(714)  731-4338 


TELEVIDEO  912/920 

•  Insert/delete  line,  insert/delete 
character,  line/page  erase. 

•  Reverse  video,  blinking, 
underline,  Vi  intensity,  pro- 
tected field,  blank  security  field. 

•  Uses  7x10  dot  matrix  for  a 
high  quality  u/l  case  display 
with  descenders. 

•  Standard  typewriter  or  teletype 
keyboard;  numeric  keypad. 

•  Model  920  includes  17 
dedicated  keys  for  function  and 
editing. 

•  Block  or  character  transmis- 
sion, auxiliary  printer  port. 

•  Cursor  up,  down,  left,  right 
return,  home,  load,  read,  tab 
and  back  tab. 

Call  For  Low  Price 


TELETYPE 43 

•  Prints  1 32  columns,  upper/lower 
case  with  true  descenders. 

•  30  character/second  print  speed. 
1 10-300  baud. 

•  Uses  12"  wide  by  8.5"  pinfeed 
paper. 

•  Print  position  scale,  paper  guide 
and  supply  rack. 

$999.00 


Write  or  Call  In  for  Our 
Free  Catalogue! 


TO  ORDER:  Send  check  or  money  order  to:  MICROMAIL,  P.O. 
Box  3297,  Santa  Ana,  CA  92703.  Personal  or  company  checks 
require  two  weeks  to  clear.    All  equipment  includes  factory 
warranty. 


SHIPPING:  We  ship  freight  collect  by  UPS  when  possible.  Larger 
terminals  are  shipped  by  motor  freight.  Air  and  express  delivery 
is  available  on  all  products. 


HANDLING:  All  orders  are  subject  to  MICROMAILs  handling 
charges.  Less  than  $750.00,  add  3%.  $750.00  to  $2  000  00 
add  2%.  Over  $2,000.00.  add  1%. 


Circle  111  on  inquiry  card. 

CIRCLE  COMPUTER  SALES 
Discount  computer  brokers 
Northern  California's  Finest! 


THINKERTOYS® 

Discus  M26®   26  Megabyte  Disk 
The  best  S100  Winchester  disk 
system  on  the  market 
Discus®   2D  Dbl  Dens  8"  Floppy 

600K  bytes  per  drive 
Discus®   2  +  2  Dbl  Side  8"  Floppy 
1200K  bytes  per  drive 
(All  Thinkertoys  disk  systems 
include  CP/M®  at  no  charge) 
Add-on  Dbl-Dens  8"  Disk  Drive 
Add-on  Dbl-Side  8"  Disk  Drive 
Disk  Jockey®   2D  Controller 
16K  SuperRam®   Static  RAM 
32K  SuperRam®   Static  RAM 
16K  MemoryMaster  Bank-Select 
24K  MemoryMaster  Bank-Select 
Switchboard  Serial/Parallel  I/O 
DECISION  IR  Computer  System 

NORTH  STAR  COMPUTERS 

HORIZON®    2  Drive  32K  D/D 
HORIZON®   2  Drive  32K  Quad 
HDS-18  18-Megabyte  Hard  Disk 
RAM32  32K  Dynamic  RAM 
RAM  16  16K  Dynamic  RAM 
NorthStar  Application  Software 

GODBOUT  ELECTRONICS 

Z80  Processor  -  4Mhz,  POJ, 

EPROM,  Interrupts 
Dual  Processor  -  8085/8088 

Ease  into  16-bit  processing 
Econoram  IIA8K  Static  RAM 

...  OLD  RELIABLE 
Econoram  XIV  16K  Static  RAM 
Econoram  XX  32K  Static  RAM 

bank-select  or  extended  addressing 

very  low  power  .  .  a  great  buy 
Interfacer  I  Dual  Serial  I/O 

A  very  flexible  board 

Full  RS232  handshaking 
Interfacer  II  Serial/Parallel  I/O 

PRINTERS 

Diablo  630  -  The  low-cost  DAISY 

These  will  be  hard  to  get 
NEC  5515  RO  Serial  Interface 

Diablo-compatible  interface 

USED  ALPHA  MICROS 
TERMINALS 


List 

Our 

Price 

Price 

4995 

4089 

1199 

999 

1545 

1299 

795 

669 

1195 

999 

429 

365 

349 

295 

699 

585 

399 

335 

549 

465 

259 

217 

call 

3095 

2537 

3595 

2947 

4999 

4097 

739 

599 

499 

419 

call 

295 

249 

425 

359 

189 

158 

349 

295 

699 

594 

249       207 


249       207 


2695 


2850 


2395 
2499 

Call 


Hazeltine  1420                                   995 

895 

Hazeltine  1500                                 1225 

1049 

Televideo  920C                                   975 

877 

MEASUREMENT  SYSTEMS 

DM6400  64K  Dynamic  RAM                 895 

657 

DMB  64K  Dynamic  Bank-Select  RAM  1 195 

857 

Excellent  reliability,  low  cost, 

low  power  ...  a  good  buy 

ALTOS 

ACS8000-2  64K  Dbl-Dens,  Sgl-Sided  4500 

3995 

ACS8000-5  64K  DEMO  .  .  .                5990 

4795 

can  upgrade  to  4  users  and  hard  disk 

MICRO  PRO 

Word  Star                                          495 

379 

Super  Sort                                         250 

189 

Data  Star                                           350 

269 

Mail  Merge  (Requires  Word  Star)          150 

119 

Prices  subject  to  change  without  notice.  Delivery  subject  to  availability. 

Circle  Computer  Sales 

700  Larkspur  Landing  Circle 

Larkspur,  CA  94939 

415-461-2616 

184        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Figure  1:  A  comparison  of  the  interlaced  (la)  and  noninterlaced  (lb)  raster-scanning 
schemes.  The  standard  home  television  receiver  displays  a  picture  made  up  of  two  alter- 
nating fields,  each  composed  of  262V2  lines.  The  lines  are  interlaced  to  produce  a  high- 
resolution  picture  that  can  be  transmitted  on  a  narrow  bandwidth  signal. 


complicate  video-display  timing.  The 
vertical-retrace  interval  provides  time 
for  the  television  circuits  to  return  the 
scanning  dot  to  the  top  of  the  screen 
after  each  field  has  been  completed. 
Since  no  picture  information  should 
be  viewed  during  this  time,  the  elec- 
tron beam  must  be  turned  off  or 
blanked:  so,  this  time  is  also  called 
the  vertical-blanking  interval. 

A  complete  frame  consists  of  two 
field  scans  and  two  vertical-retrace 
intervals.  Television  in  the  United 
States  uses  a  total  of  525  lines  per 
frame  or  262.5  lines  per  field.  Each 
vertical  retrace  uses  21  lines,  leaving 
241.5  lines  per  field  for  the  transmis- 
sion of  picture  information.  The  odd 
half -line  per  field  is  necessary  in  order 
to  make  the  lines  of  alternate  fields  in- 
terlace properly. 

At  30  frames  per  second,  525  lines 
per  frame  is  equivalent  to  15,750  lines 
per  second  or  63.5  (is  per  line.  Since 
all  the  lines  are  scanned  in  the  same 
direction,  the  scanning  dot  must  be 
returned  across  the  screen  between 
the  end  of  one  line  and  the  start  of  the 
next.  This  is  called  horizontal  retrace 
and  takes  about  15  fis. 

Video  Monitor  Versus  the 
Standard  Receiver 

So  that  the  engineers  at  the  televi- 
sion station  can  monitor  the  quality 
of  the  signal  that  is  being  transmitted, 
the  picture  is  displayed  on  a  video 
monitor  (something  like  a  television 
set  without  the  antenna  and  tuner).  It 
does  not  pick  up  other  television 
broadcasts  but  is  connected  directly 
to  the  station  equipment  generating 
video  signals.  If  the  outgoing  video 
signal  already  has  the  horizontal  and 
vertical  synchronizing  pulses,  it  is 
called  composite  video.  Most  video 
monitors  are  also  capable  of  accept- 
ing the  video  signals  and  synchroniz- 
ing signals  separately. 

Because  the  monitor  gets  the  signal 


before  it  has  been  through  the  various 
distortions  imposed  on  it  by  the 
transmission  and  reception  equip- 
ment, the  picture  displayed  on  a 
monitor  is  much  sharper  than  the  one 
on  a  home  television  set.  The  band- 
width of  the  video  signal  displayed  by 
a  home  set  is  limited  to  less  than 
4.5  MHz,  while  most  video  monitors 
can  handle  12  MHz  or  more. 

Home  television  receivers  display 
less  of  the  picture  in  another  respect: 
they  crop  off  the  edges  by  generating 
a  raster  which  is  too  large  for  the 
screen.  This  deliberate  overscanning 
is  done  so  that  the  unavoidable  errors 
in  the  positioning  of  the  raster 
(caused  by  manufacturing  tolerances 
and  changes  in  the  power-line 
voltage)  will  not  leave  unsightly  gaps 
at  the  edges  of  the  picture.  In  televi- 
sion broadcasting,  no  important  ac- 
tivity is  allowed  to  occur  near  the 
edges  of  the  picture  where  it  might  be 
lost.  Personal  computers  that  use 
standard  television  receivers  for  their 
displays  must  have  similar  precau- 
tions: data  is  never  displayed  on  the 
parts  of  lines  near  the  sides  of  the 
screen,  or  anywhere  on  the  top  or 
bottom  lines. 

The  television  signal  is  transmitted 
over  the  air  after  it  is  impressed  onto 
a  VHF  (very-high-frequency)  or  UHF 
(ultra-high-frequency)  radio  signal  by 
modulation.  Modulation  is  the 
modification  of  some  characteristic  of 
the  VHF  or  UHF  signal,  or  carrier,  in 
step  with  the  changes  in  the  informa- 
tion that  is  being  transmitted.  The 
particular  frequency  used  for  the  car- 
rier determines  which  channel  you 
tune  your  TV  set  to  in  order  to  pick  it 
up.  Circuits  in  the  television  can 
detect  the  changes  in  the  carrier  and 
extract  the  information  they  contain: 
specifically,  the  composite-video 
signal. 

If  we  want  to  display  our 
computer-generated  video  on  an  or- 


SIRIUS  80+ 

High  Performance 

Low  Cost  Floppy  Add-Ons ! 

The  SIRIUS  SYSTEMS  80+  Series  of  Floppy 
Disk  add-ons  are  designed  to  provide  un- 
matched versatility  and  performance  for  your 
TRS-80*.  Consisting  of  four  different  add- 
ons, there  is  a  80+  Series  Floppy  Disk  Drive  to 
meet  your  needs. 

COMMON  CHARACTERISTICS 

■  5ms  track-to-track  access  time 

■  Auto-Eject 
m  180  day  WARRANTY 

■  Exceptional  speed  stability  - 1 112% 

■  Single/Double  Density  operation 

■  Mix  any  or  all  80  +  Series  on  the  SS 
Standard  cable 

SPECIFIC  CHARACTERISTICS 
The  SIRIUS  80+1  -a  single  sided,  40  track 
Drive.  Offering  5  more  tracks  than  the  Radio 
Shack  model,  it  cost  $120  less.  Formatted 
data  storage  is  102K/204K  Bytes  Single/ 
Double  Density. 

SiRiuseo+1  $379.95 

The  SIRIUS  80+2  is  a  dual  sided,  80  track  (40 
per  side)  Disk  Drive.  It  appears  to  the  TP.S-80* 
as  TWO  40  track  drives  yet  COST  LESS  THAN 
HALF  THE  PRICE!  Even  greater  savings  result 
since  data  is  recorded  on  both  sides  of  the 
media  instead  of  only  a  single  side.  This  unit 
may  require  the  SS  Standard  cable.  Formatted 
data  storage  is  204K/408K  Bytes  Single/Double 
Density. 

SIRIUS  80+2   $449.95 

The  SIRIUS  80+3  -  a  single  sided,  80  track 
Drive.  Offering  21/3  times  the  storage  of  a 
standard  Radio  Shack  Disk  Drive,  the  80+3 
greatly  reduces  the  need  for  diskettes  corre- 
spondingly. Additionally,  because  of  the  in- 
creased storage  and  faster  track-to-track 
access  time,  the  80+3  allows  tremendously 
increased  throughput  for  disk  based  pro- 


grams! The  80+3  includes  SIRIUSs  TP.AKS- 
PATCH  on  diskette  (for  use  with  96  tpi  drives) . 
Formatted  data  storage  is  204K/408K  Bytes 
Single/Double  Density. 
SIRIUS  80+3 $499.95 

The  SIRIUS  80+4  -a  dual  sided,  160  track  (80 
per  side)  5%"  monster!  The  ultimate  in  state- 
of-the-art  5V-"  Floppy  Disk  Technology,  the 
80+4  is  seen  by  the  TRS-80*  as  two  single 
sided  disk  drives.  Thus,  in  terms  of  capacity, 
one  80+4  is  equivalent  to  4%  standard  Radio 
Shack  drives  —  at  a  savings  of  over  73%  (not 
to  mention  diskettes!!!).  (With  a  double  den- 
sity converter  the  available  memory  is  huge!) 
The  80+4  (a  96  tpi  drive)  includes  TRAKS- 
PATCH  on  diskette  and  may  require  the  SS 
Standard  cable.  Formatted  storage  is  408K/ 
816K  Bytes  Single/Double  Density^ 
smius  80  +  4  $649.95 

All  80+  Series  Floppy  Disk  add-ons  operate  at 
5ms  track-to-track  but  are  Expansion  Interface 
limited  to  12ms  for  the  TRS-80* 
'TRS-80©  of  Tandy  Corp. 

ACCESSORIES 

SS  Standard  2  Drive  Cable $29.95 

NEWDOS/80-Sophisticated  Operating  System 
for  the  TRS-80*  from  Apparat $149.95 


Save  up  to  10%  with  these  SIRIUS  Packages! 

$624.95 

$749.95 

$1080.95 

$1349.95 


NEWDOS/80,  SIRIUS  80+3,  and  Two  Drive  Cable  .... 
NEWDOS/80,  SIRIUS  80+4,  and  Two  Drive  Cable  .... 
NEWDOS/80,  Two  (2)  SIRIUS  80+3's,  Two  Drive  Cable 
NEWDOS/80,  Two  (2)  SIRIUS  80+4's,  Two  Drive  Cable 


PRIAM 

Hard  Disks 
Now  Available 
from  SIRIUS 

SYSTEMS! 


PRIAM's  high-performance,  iow-cost  Winchester  disc  drives  speed  up  throughput  and  expand  data  storage 
from  20  megabytes  to  154  megabytes.  And  a  single  controller  can  be  used  to  operate  14-inch-disc  drives  wrth 
capacities  of  33, 66,  or  154  megabytes  or  floppy-disc-size  drives  holding  20  and  34  megabytes.  So  rt'seasy  to 
move  up  in  capacrty,  or  reduce  package  size,  without  changing  important  system  elements  or  performance. 


I  Fast,  Linear  Voice  Coil  Positioning 
I  10  ms  track-to-track  positioning 
I  Fully  servoed  head  positioning 
I  Dedicated  servo  tracks 


m  DC  Power  required  only  I 

■  Simple,  parallel  Interface 

■  Optional  SMD  Interface 


I  50  ms  Average  Positioning  time 
I  90  ms  Maximum  Positioning  Time 
I  6.4  ms  Average  Latency 


THE  PRIAM  LINEUP 

Capacity  Size 

33Mbyr.es  7"  x  17"  x  20" 

66  Mbytes  7"  x  17"  x  20" 

154  Mbytes  7"  x  17"  x  20" 

20  Mbytes  4.62"  x  8.55"  x  14.25 

34  Mbytes  4.62"  x  8.55"  x  14.25 

10.6  Mbytes  floppy-size 


Model/Disc  Size 

DISKOS    3350(14" 

DISKOS    6650  14 

DISKOS  15450  14 

DISKOS    2050     8 

DISKOS   3450  |  8 

DISKOS    1070 

All  PRIAM  DISKOS  Drives  have  a  Transfer  Rate  of  1 .03  Mbytes/Sec. 

Optional  SMD  interface  available  tor  $150. 


Weight 

33  lbs. 
33  lbs. 
33  lbs. 
20  lbs. 
20  lbs. 
(low) 


Price 
$2995 
$3749 
$4695 
$2995 
$3745 
$2195 


SIRIUS  SYTEMS  offer  cases  and  enclosures  for  all  PRIAM  Hard  Disk  Drives.  All  14"  Winchester 
Drives  will  mount  in  our  14 "  Standard  Case.  The  8'  Winchesters  have  two  alternatives;  a  single 
drive  case  and  a  dual  drive  case.  All  SIRIUS  SYSTEMS  Winchester  drive  cases  include  Power 
Supply,  internal  cabling,  switches,  fan,  extra  AC  outlet  (not  switched,  but  fused)  and  possess  very 
adequate  ventilation.  Drive  addressing  is  done  on  the  rear  of  the  Case  and  not  on  the  drive  iteself 
to  provide  ease  of  use  during  operation.  All  WINCHESTER  DRIVE  Cases  are  Warranted  tor  a  full 
year  and  come  in  our  standard  blue-black  color  scheme.  Consult  us  for  current  availability  and 
pricing. 


Introducing  the  Versatile,  Low-Cost 
OMEGA  Series  Controller 


As  new  technological  advances  bring  down  the 
cost  of  fast,  reliable  mass  data  storage,  the  need 
for  an  inexpensive,  versatile  controller  have  be- 
come greater  and  greater.  To  meet  this  need, 
SIRIUS  SYSTEMS'  OMEGA  Series  Controller 
was  designed. 

The  SIRIUS  OMEGA  Series  Controller  Module 
utilizes  an  on-board  microprocessor  to 
mediate  data  transfer  to  a  wide  variety  of 
peripherals  from  an  equally  wide  variety  of  host 
computer  systems.  Up  to  four  Winchester  Hard 
Disks  (8 "  or  14"),  four  5%"  Floppy  Disks  Drives 
and/or  up  to  eight  8"  Floppy  Disk  Drives  may  be 
in  use  at  one  time.  Host  systems  interfacing 
is  accomplished  via  a  parallel  or  a  serial  inter- 
face. With  the  additon  of  a  Personality  module, 
the  OMEGA  Series  Controller  Module  is  directly 
compatible  with  many  popular  com- 
puter systems  (among  them  the  TRS-80", 
Apple,  Heath,  and  others).  Provision  is  made  for 
the  addition  of  a  streaming  tape  drive,  also. 

SPECIFIC  HARDWARE 
FEATURES  INCLUDE: 

■  Control  of  up  to  twelve  Floppy  Disk  Drives 
(eight 8"  andlor  lour 5Va") 

•  8  "  andlor  5V4 "  Disk  Drive  Utilization 

•  Single  (FM)  or  Double  (MFM)  density  data 
storage 

•  Hard  or  Soft  sectored  diskette  usage 

•  Utilization  of  "Quad' '  density  (96  tpi)  8"  or 
5V*" Disk  Drives 


■  Control  of  up  to  four  WINCHESTER  type 
PRIAM  DISKOS  Disk  Drives 

•  8"  or  14"  may  intermix  on  the  same  cable 

•  Accommodates  8"  and/or  14' '  drives  of 
5.3Mbytes  to  154Mbytes 

•  Ultra-Fast  data  transfers 

■  Extremely  flexible  host-controller  interfacing 

SPECIFIC  SOFTWARE 
FEATURES  INCLUDE: 

■  Dynamic  format  modifications  via  command 
words 

■  Extremely  flexible  format  acceptance  for  un- 
usual data  storage  formats 

■  Easily  interfaces  to  standard  operating  sys- 
tems (TRS-DOS*.  CP/M*  ,etc) 

■  Operates  in  either  get/put  sector  mode  or 
data  string  mode 

■  Performance  parameters  may  be  changed  by 
EPR0M  replacement  or  Dynaminic  Repro- 
gramming 

CP/M^  of  Digital  Research 

Dedicated  systems  cards  are  also  available  on  a 
limited  basis  for  the  STD-BUS  and  the  S  100. 
These  cards  feature  shared  memory  also  (again, 
software  selectable)  in  addition  to  the  regular 
OMEGA  Series  Controller  Module  features.  Con- 
sult SIRIUS  SYTEMS  for  current  price  and 
availability  for  the  entire  line  of  OMEGA  Series 
Memory  Units  and  Controllers.  Dealer  inquir- 
ies are  invited. 


What  TFORTH  is  -  and  what  it  has  to  offer  YOU ! 

TFORTH  is  a  unique  growth  programming  language  for  the  TRS-80*  that  combines  the  best 
features  of  an  interpreter  and  a  compiler  all  in  one  functional  easy-to-use  package.  TFORTH  cannot  be 
simply  compared  with  Fortran,  BASIC  or  PASCAL.  This  high  speed,  high  level  modular  code  offers 
the  speed  found  in  many  FORTRAN  compilers  yet  retains  the  on-line  conviences  found  in  BASIC 
INTERPRETERS  by  flagging  input  errors  as  they  occur  line-by-line.  Unlike  PASCAL,  TFORTH  needs 
no  "run-time"  package  for  support.  Serving  as  an  operating  system,  compiler,  assembler,  inter- 
preter, virtual  memory  manager,  all  in  one:  TFORTH  makes  easy,  efficient-  structured  re-entrant 
programs  a  natural  consequence. 

The  key  to  TFORTH's  flexibility  and  ease  of  use  lies  in  its  use  of  a  stack  for  parameters  and  a  unique 
dictionary  for  WORDS.  These  WORDS  are  stated  in  terms  of  other  WORDS  already  defined  in  the 
dictionary.  It  is  this  rich  set  of  WORDS  that  provides  DO  LOOPS,  IF-THEN-ELSE  statements, 
BEGIN-ENO  statements,  virtual  memory,  any  number  base  (to  base  32)  for  input  or  output,  a  macro 
assembler,  re-entrant  code,  multithread  dictionary,  line  editor,  excellent  math  package  (16  bit 
integers,  double  precision  floating  point,  SIN,  COS,  TAN,  EXP  and  LOG)  and  it  runs  under  either 
TRSDOS*  or  NEWDOS.  Assembler  inherently  nests  with  high  level  in  an  easy  fashion.  Complicated 
drivers  for  new  devices  take  only  a  few  lines  of  TFORTH  which  saves  both  memory  and  disk  space! 

TFORTH  is  a  procedural  language  specifing  a  process  rather  than  a  desired  result.  The  ability  to 
have  the  language  grow  in  the  direction  the  user  desires  is  excellent  for  novel  applications.  New  data 
types  and  new  processes  can  become  part  of  the  language.  Due  to  the  modular  constructions,  a  very 
compact  code  is  produced  which  executes  at  exceptionally  high  speeds  between  machine  code  and 
machine  code  plus  20%  typical  overhead  speeds.  Memory  requirements  can  be  "less"  than 
assembler  coding  or  other  high  level  languages. 

TFORTH  comes  complete  for  the  TRS-80*  with  as  little  as  16K  of  memory  and  a  single  Disk  Drive 
using  either  TRS-QOS®  or  NEWDOS.  It  provided  on  diskettes  and  an  optional  Math  and  Utilities 
package  is  available. 

Through  TFORTH  an  excellent  way  to  develop  new  languages,  provide  simple  control  of  device 
(including  videomonitors,  A/D  and  D/A  converters  and  burglar  alarms)  and  to  implement  tasks 
requiring  monitoring  and  decision  is  offered.  Many  WORDS  to  handle  peripherals  are  part  of  basic 
TFORTH  and  others  may  be  added  easily.  Often,  substantial  hardware  development  can  be  eliminated 
by  using  TFORTH  to  do  the  major  digital  or  reduction  of  data. 

For  many  applications  a  minimal  task  may  be  written  in  high  level  (or  mixture  of  assembler  and  high 
level)  code:  loaded,  assembled  and  prior  to  execution  may  be  written  to  the  disk  as  a  ready  to  execute 
machine  code/EXE  module  with  the  DOS. 

TFORTH  (on  diskette -specify  for  Standard  or  96  tpi  Disk  Drives)   $129.95 

TFORTH  with  the  addition  of  TRAKS-PATCH  (a  powerful  combination!) $136.95 


STATE-OF-THE-ART  DISK  DRIVES 


QUME  DataTrakS 

8"  Disk  Drive 

DOUBLE  SIDED! 

DOUBLE  DENSITY! 

High  performance  Double  Sided  Disk  8"  Disk 
Drive  ■  Single  or  Double  Density  ■  Door  Lock 
and  Write  Protect  INCLUDED!  ■  Negative  DC 
Voltage  not  required  ■  Low  Power  Operation 

■  FAST!  3ms  track-to-track  access 

■  Low  friction  and  minimum  wear 

■  Superior  Head  Load  Dynamics 

QUME  DataTrak  8 $574.95 

(2/S549ea) 

QUME  Technical  Manual  $6.95 

Connector  Set  #3  (AC,  DC,  &  Card  Edge) 

$10.95 

Connector  Set  #4  (AC  and  DC) $2.95 


MPI 51/52  &  91/92 
5%"  Disk  Drives 


SIRIUSl 
SYSTEMS 

7528  Oak  Ridge  Highway 
Knoxville,  Tennessee  37921 


jroffis) 


TO  ORDER  CALL  (615)  693-6583 

Phone  Orders  Accepted  9AM-7PM  (EST)  Mon-Fri 

We  accept  MC,  VISA,  AE,  COD  (requires  Certified  Check,  Cashier's  Check 
or  Cash)  and  Checks  (personal  checks  require  14  days  to  clear).  SHIPPING 
AND  HANDLING:  $7.00  per  Floppy  Disk  Drive  or  80+  Module  ■  5%  for  other 
items  (any  excess  will  be  refunded)  ■  Foreign  Orders  add  1 0%  for  Shipping 
&  Handling.  Payment  in  U.S.  currency  ■  Tennessee  residents  add  6%  Sales 
Tax  ■  VOLUME  DISCOUNTS  AVAILABLE 


■  Fast!  5ms  track-to-track  access 

■  Exclusive  Pulley-Band  Design 

■  Unique  Door/Ejector  Mechanism 
m  Reliable  11 12%  Speed  Stability 

■  Single/Double  Density  Operation 
m  Industry/ANSI  Standard  Interface 

MPI  51  (Single  Head/40  tracks) 
125K/250K  Bytes  Single/Double  Density* 

$259.95 
MPI52  (Dual  Head/80  tracks  (40/side)) 
250K/500K  Bytes  Single/Double  Density* 

$349.95 

MPI  91  (Single  Head/80  tracks) 
250K/500K  Bytes  Single/Double  Density  * 

$399.95 
MPI  92  (Dual  Head/160  tracks  (80/side)) 
500K/1000K  Bytes  Single/Double  Density* 

$524.95 

MPI  Technical  Manual  $6.95 

••Unformatted  data  storage 


Circle  112  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980         185 


dinary  television  set,  we  must  either 
modify  the  set  internally  to  give  it  a 
direct  composite-video  input,  like 
that  of  a  video  monitor,  or  else  we 
must  add  a  modulator  to  our  com- 
puter. The  modulator  acts  like  a  tiny 
broadcasting  station;  it  generates  a 
VHF  or  UHF  carrier  that  corresponds 
to  a  standard  television  channel 
(which  is  not  being  used  by  a  local 
transmitting  station)  and  modulates  it 
with  the  computer  video  signal.  The 
modulated  signal  can  then  be  con- 
nected to  the  receiver's  antenna 
terminals. 

Displaying  Computer  Data 

For  our  computer  to  produce  a 
display  on  a  television  set  or  a  video 
monitor,  it  must  generate  a  compos- 
ite-video signal.  Generating  the 
horizontal  and  vertical  synchronizing 
pulses  is  relatively  easy,  since  they 
just  repeat  over  and  over  in  a  fixed 
numerical  relationship.  Our  com- 
puter's internal  clock  can  serve  as  a 
stable  high-frequency  source  for  a 
few  additional  circuits  to  use  in  pro- 
ducing the  horizontal  and  vertical 
synchronizing  signals. 


Combining  functions 
helps  to  keep  the  cost  of 
personal  computing 
down. 


To  make  the  display  circuits  in  per- 
sonal computers  simpler  and  less  ex- 
pensive, the  whole  complicated 
business  of  interlaced  scanning  lines 
and  alternating  fields  has  been 
eliminated  in  most  cases.  Instead,  the 
odd  half-line  per  field,  which  would 
have  been  needed  to  make  the  field 
lines  interlace,  is  omitted;  this  leaves 
262  lines  per  field.  Without  the  in- 
terlace, the  lines  of  any  two  suc- 
cessive fields  appear  in  exactly  the 
same  places,  so  we  can  just  as  well 
think  of  a  computer  display  as  having 
60  frames  per  second,  with  262  lines 
per  frame.  In  fact,  a  different  number 
of  lines  per  frame  may  be  used  if  the 
designer  finds  it  convenient,  but  the 
number  must  be  within  a  few  percent 
of  262  for  the  display  to  work  with  a 
standard  television  set. 


Video  Refresh 

While  synchronization  is  easy, 
generating  a  video  signal  with  our 
computer  is  a  little  more  difficult. 
First  of  all,  a  television  picture  must 
be  continually  regenerated  by 
repeating  the  entire  scanning  process 
60  times  per  second.  This  continual 
regeneration  of  the  display  is  called 
video  refresh;  it  requires  a  stream  of 
data  at  a  rate  much  too  fast  for  our 
computer  to  keep  up  with — if  the 
system  had  to  compute  the  data  anew 
for  every  scan.  Instead,  most  com- 
puter designers  set  aside  enough 
memory  to  store  all  of  the  data  that 
will  appear  on  the  display.  This 
reserved  memory  is  called  the  video- 
refresh  memory.  Circuits  designed 
especially  for  video-displaying  read 
data  from  the  refresh  memory,  in  step 
with  the  video-synchronizing  pulses, 
and  transform  the  data  into  the  video 
signal  which  is  displayed. 

Using  part  of  the  computer's  own 
memory  for  video  refresh  has  not 
been  the  general  rule.  Most  large 
computer  systems  include  video  ter- 
minals that  are  independent  of  the 
main  computer  and  contain  their  own 


NEW  EATON  7000+ 


Now  you  can  add  hard  copy 
capability  to  your  computer 
with  plug-in  simplicity  that 
matches  up  to  any  micro 
system.  And  with  the  Eaton 
7000+  dot-matrix  printer, 
you  get  complete  printout 
versatility  at  an 
affordable  price. 

Interfaces  with 

any  personal  computer 

Apple,  Commodore  Pet,  TRS-* 
Northstar  and  others  — no  matter 
what  type  of  computer  you  have  or 
are  thinking  of  buying,  Eaton  7000+ 
fits.  Just  plug  it  in  and  start  printing. 
You'll  get  virtually  maintenance-free 
operation  with  a  minimum  of  moving 
parts.  And  minimum  life  of  100 
million  characters  with  Eaton's 
newest  printhead,  while  the  print 


186        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


mechanism  is  designed 

for  a  minimum  of  10  million  cycles. 

High  performance  design 

The  7000+  features  uni-directional 
printing  at  a  speed  of  1.25  lines 
per  second.  It  accepts  any  standard 
single  or  2-ply  roll  paper  from  %"  to 


PLUG  IN  AND 
PRINT  OUT- 
IN  SECONDS! 

Vb"  wide  and  prints  3V3"  line 
ith  40  to  64  adjustable  character 
lapacity. 

For  immediate  information  call: 
Eaton  Printer  Product  Operations, 
307/856-4821. 

For  descriptive  literature  and  the 
name  of  your  nearest  dealer  write 
Eaton  Corporation,  Count  Control/ 
Systems  Division, 901  South  12th  St., 
Watertown,  Wl  53094. 
Dealer  inquiries  invited. 


Electrical/ Electronic  Control 


EAT-1A 

Circle  392  on  inquiry  card. 


G0 1 6-BIT  NOW  —  WE  HAVE  MADE  IT  EASY 


8086 

8  Mhz.  2-card  CPU  Set 

$ 


WITH  86-DOS& 

ASSEMBLED,  TESTED,  GUARANTEED 


With  our  2-card  8086  CPU  set  you  can  upgrade  your  Z80  8- 
bit  S-100  system  to  run  three  times  as  fast  by  swapping  the 
CPUs.  If  you  use  our  16-bit  memory,  it  will  run  five  times  as 
fast.  Up  to  64K  of  your  static  8-bit  memory  may  be  used  in  the 
8086's  1  -megabyte  addressing  range.  A  switch  allows  either  4 
or  8  Mhz.  operation.  Memory  access  requirements  at  4  Mhz. 
exceed  500  nsec. 

The  EPROM  monitor  allows  you  to  display,  alter,  and 
search  memory,  do  inputs  and  outputs,  and  boot  your  disk. 
Debugging  aids  include  register  display  and  change,  single 
stepping,  and  execute  with  breakpoints. 

The  set  includes  a  serial  port  with  programmable  baud  rate, 
four  independent  programmable  16-bit  timers  (two  may  be 
combined  for  a  time-of-day  clock),  a  parallel  in  and  parallel  out 
port,  and  an  interrupt  controller  with  1 5  inputs.  External  power 
may  be  applied  to  the  timers  to  maintain  the  clock  during 
system  power-off  time.  Total  power:  2  amps  at  +  8V,  less  than 
100  ma.  at  +  16V  and  at  -16V. 

86-005"*,  our  $195  8086  single  user  disk  operating 
system,  is  provided  without  additional  charge.  It  allows 
functions  such  as  console  I/O  of  characters  and  strings,  and 
random  or  sequencial  reading  and  writing  to  named  disk  files. 
While  it  has  a  different  format  from  CP/M,  it  performs  similar 
calls  plus  some  extensions  (CP/M  is  a  registered  trademark  of 
Digital  Research  Corporation).  Its  construction  allows  relative- 
ly easy  configuration  of  I/O  to  different  hardware.  Directly 
supported  are  the  Tarbell  and  Cromemco  disk  controllers. 

The  86-DOS®  package  includes  an  8086  resident  as- 
sembler, a  Z80  to  8086  source  code  translator,  a  utility  to  read 
files  written  in  CP/M  and  convert  them  to  the  86-DOS  format,  a 
line  editor,  and  disk  maintenance  utilities.  Of  significance  to 
Z80  users  is  the  ability  of  the  translator  to  accept  Z80  source 


„^Sm 


'-*& 


%^ 


code  written  for  CP/M,  translate  this  to  8086  source  code, 
assemble  the  source  code,  and  then  run  the  program  on  the 
8086  processor  under  86-DOS.  This  allows  the  conversion  of 
any  Z80  program,  for  which  source  code  is  available,  to  run  on 
the  much  higher  performance  8086. 

BASIC-86  by  Microsoft  is  available  for  the  8086  at  $350. 
Several  firms  are  working  on  application  programs.  Call  for 
current  software  status. 

All  software  licensed  for  use  on  a  single  computer  only. 
Non-disclosure  agreements  required.  Shipping  from  stock  to 
one  week.  Bank  cards,  personal  checks,  CODs  okay.  There  is 
a  10-day  return  privilege.  All  boards  are  guaranteed  one  year 
—  both  parts  and  labor.  Shipped  prepaid  by  air  in  US  and 
Canada.  Foreign  purchases  must  be  prepaid  in  US  funds. 
Also  add  $10  per  board  for  overseas  air  shipment. 


8/16  16-BIT  MEMORY 

This  board  was  designed  for  the  1980s.  It  is  configured  as 
16K  by  8  bits  when  accessed  by  an  8-bit  processor  and 
configured  8K  by  16  bits  when  used  with  a  16-bit  processor. 
The  configuration  switching  is  automatic  and  is  done  by  the 
card  sampling  the  "sixteen  request"  signal  sent  out  by  all  S- 
1 00  IEEE  1 6-bit  CPU  boards.  The  card  has  all  the  high  noise 
immunity  features  of  our  well  known  PLUS  RAM  cards  as  well 
as  "extended  addressing".  Extended  addressing  is  a  replace- 
ment for  bank  select.  It  makes  use  of  a  total  of  24  address  lines 
to  give  a  directly  addressable  range  of  over  16  megabytes. 
(For  older  systems,  a  switch  will  cause  the  card  to  ignore  the 
top  8  address  lines.)  This  card  ensures  that  your  memory 
board  purchase  will  not  soon  be  obsolete.  It  is  guaranteed  to 
run  without  wait  states  with  our  8086  CPU  set  using  an  8  Mhz. 
clock.  Shipped  from  stock.  Prices:  1  -4,  $280;  5-9,  $260;  1 0-up, 
$240. 


Circle  113  on  inquiry  card. 


*    Jit  i 


' 


mmrmi  *j  mml 
pbJiv*{Kpr 


?Se 


,  Seattle  Computer  Products,  Inc. 

^t*^         1114  Industry  Drive,  Seattle,  WA.  98188 


(206)  575-1830 


BYTE  November  1980 


187 


refresh  memory.  In  other  words,  a 
small  personal  computer  is  a  hybrid: 
part  computer,  part  terminal.  Com- 
bining functions  in  this  way  helps  to 
keep  the  cost  of  personal  computing 
down.  Also,  putting  the  refresh 
memory  into  the  computer  makes 
changing  the  display  faster  and 
easier. 

Bit-Mapped  Displays 

There  are  several  different  methods 
of  transforming  the  data  stored  in  the 
refresh  memory  into  an  effective 
video  display.  The  most  straight- 
forward method  is  to  take  the  data 
just  as  it  is  read  from  the  refresh 
memory  and  transmit  it  to  the  display 
1  bit  at  a  time.  Each  1  bit  in  this  serial 
bit  stream  appears  on  the  screen  as  a 
spot  of  light,  and  each  0  bit  as 
darkness.  The  size  of  the  refresh 
memory  is  matched  to  the  picture 
scan  so  that  for  each  bit  in  the  refresh 
memory  there  is  one  spot  on  the 
display  screen.  A  one-to-one  cor- 
respondence of  this  kind  is  called  a 
map,  and  this  technique  for 
generating  computer  video  displays 
is  called  bit  mapping.  An  example  of 
a  bit-mapped  display  is  shown  in 
photo  1. 


Photo  1:  Example  of  a  bit-mapped 
display.  This  simulation  of  a  spaceship  in 
orbit  around  a  star  is  done  on  a  180-bit  by 
150-bit  map. 


Since  we  can  program  the  com- 
puter to  store  data  bits  into  the 
refresh  memory  in  any  pattern  we 
desire,  this  kind  of  display  can  have 
all  the  versatility  we  want,  but  there 
are  some  drawbacks.  For  one  thing, 
this  system  requires  a  large  refresh 
memory.  To  store  a  display  which  is 
200  dots  high  by  300  dots  across,  for 
example,  takes  60,000  bits  or  7500 
bytes.  Bit-mapped  displays  are 
relatively  slow,  too;  just  storing  0s 
into  this  much  memory  in  order  to 


(212)  986-7690 

MAIL  ORDER  ONLY 


Micro  Computer  Vour  One  Stop  For.  .  .Quality  and  Huge  Savings 


DISCOUNT 


Company 


QUALITY  •  DELIVERY  •  SERVICE 

60  E.  42nd  St.  Suite  411  New  York,  NY  10017 


CENTRONICS 

737-1  —  $895 


PAPER  TIGER 

440G  -  $895 


i-»-         mm 


APF 

IMl  -  $495 
IM2  -  $988 


XYMEC 

HQ  1000  -  $2395 


COMMODORE 

8K  - $729 
16K  -  $888 
32K  -  $1088 
2022  -  $695 
2040  -  $1088 
8050  -  $1435 
8032  -  $1495 


NEC 
SPINWRITER 

5510  -  $2795 
5520  -  $2990 


APPLE 

16K  -  $  959 
48K  -  $1059 

Disk  —  $529 
Other  Products  Avail 


SUPERBRAIN* 

*32K  -  $2445 
64K  -  $2645 
64KQD  -  $3395 
*32K  add-in  memory 

only  $10  with 

purchase 


*XEROX 

1740  RO  -  $2619 
1740  SR  -  $2995 
1750  RO  -  $2795 
1750  KSR  -  $3170 
1730  -  $2195 


MAIL  ORDER  ONLY 

Send  Certified  Check  (Personal  or  Company  Checks  require  2  weeks  to  clear.) 
We  pay  all  shipping  and  insurance  charges  except  items  marked  with  asterisk. 
VISA,  MasterCharge  add  5%     N.Y.S.  Residents  add  appropriate  sales  tax. 


*  (DENOTES  ITEMS 
SHIPPED  F.O.B.  NYC) 

PHONE  (212)  986-7690 


clear  the  screen  to  black  takes  close  to 
1  second  with  the  fastest  micro- 
processor. 

Displaying  only  letters  and 
numbers  means  we  can  get  by  with  a 
much  smaller  refresh  memory  than  is 
needed  for  bit  mapping.  A  letter  that 
occupies  eight  rows  of  eight  dots  re- 
quires 8  bytes  of  memory  in  the  bit- 
mapped display,  but  we  can  encode 
the  same  letter  in  ASCII  (American 
Standard  Code  for  Information  Inter- 
change) and  reduce  the  size  of  the 
refresh  memory  by  a  factor  of  8.  This 
means  that  instead  of  sending  the 
data  bits  directly  to  the  display,  it  is 
necessary  to  decode  each  stored 
character  and  generate  the  ap- 
propriate video  information.  To  do 
this,  the  refresh  circuits  send  the 
character  code  (along  with  signals 
that  indicate  which  of  the  eight  rows 
of  dots  is  currently  being  displayed) 
to  another  circuit  called  a  character 
generator.  The  character  generator  is 
little  more  than  a  read-only  memory 
that  contains  the  video  bit  patterns 
for  each  of  the  characters  we  want  to 
display. 

Having  a  smaller  refresh  memory 
more  than  compensates  for  the  addi- 
tional cost  of  the  character  generator. 
For  example,  our  200-dot  by  300-dot 
display  has  a  capacity  of  925 
characters,  in  twenty-five  rows  of 
thirty-seven  characters  each.  The  bit- 
mapped memory  needed  for  this  is 
7500  bytes,  but  we  can  store  925 
characters  in  only  925  bytes  if  we  use 
the  character  generator.  It  takes  only 
one-eighth  as  long  to  update  the 
refresh  memory,  too.  The  main 
drawback  is  its  lack  of  versatility;  we 
can  only  display  characters  of  a  fixed 
size  and  spacing.  Obviously,  a 
method  of  getting  many  different 
shapes  without  increasing  the  size  of 
the  refresh  memory  would  be  more 
flexible. 

Using  a  byte  of  memory  for  each 
character,  in  all  possible  combina- 
tions of  8  bits,  requires  a  total  of  256 
different  codes.  A  complete  set  of 
uppercase  and  lowercase  letters, 
numbers,  and  punctuation  takes  only 
ninety-six  codes,  leaving  160  com- 
binations that  we  can  assign  to  special 
shapes  useful  for  graphics.  Each 
special  shape  must  be  designed  using 
the  same  number  of  dots  and  rows  as 
the  other  characters.  It  may  often  be 
necessary  to  use  several  of  them  to 
make  up  the  image  of  one  object  in 
the  display.  We  can  allow  for  this  by 
setting  up  special  characters  such  as 


188       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


straight-line  segments,  corners,  in- 
tersections, and  so  on,  in  various 
orientations. 

Several  personal-computer 
manufacturers  have  taken  this  ap- 
proach. While  keeping  the  speed  and 
small  refresh  memory  of  the 
character-generator-based  design, 
they  also  have  a  reasonable  graphics 
capability  with  good  resolution.  To 
compensate  for  the  limited  number  of 
special  shapes  that  you  can  have  with 
this  method,  the  Exidy  and  Texas 
Instruments  computers  have  pro- 
grammable character  generators  so 
that  you  can  design  your  own  shape 
characters  and  change  them  as 
needed. 

Character  Subcells 

There  is  another  way  to  add 
graphics  capability  to  the  character- 
generator  display.  Suppose  we  divide 
each  of  the  character  cells  into  four 
subcells,  each  of  which  is  four  dots 
square.  By  displaying  any  combina- 
tion of  these  four  subcells,  with  all 
dots  illuminated,  there  will  be  sixteen 
possible  shapes  which  we  can  display 
in  each  character  location.  By 
allocating  sixteen  extra  character 
codes  to  represent  these  sixteen  com- 
binations, we  can  have  a  very  ver- 
satile graphics  system;  however,  it 
won't  have  much  resolution. 
Dividing  each  character  in  half 
horizontally  and  vertically  converts 
the  twenty-five  rows  of  thirty-seven 
characters  in  our  example  to  a 
50-block  by  74-block  graphics 
display. 

We  could  increase  the  resolution  by 
dividing  the  character  cells  into 
smaller  pieces,  but  the  number  of 
combinations  of  blocks  we  would 
have  to  encode  would  increase  very 
quickly.  If  we  divide  each  cell  by  4  in 
each  direction,  we  increase  the  resolu- 
tion to  100  by  148;  but,  there  will  be 
sixteen  subcells  in  each  character  cell 
so  we  must  store  16  bits  of  data  for 
each  cell.  Since  there  are  65,536  dif- 
ferent 16-bit  codes,  using  read-only 
memory  for  the  character  generator 
becomes  impractical.  Instead,  it  is 
necessary  to  devise  some  logical 
method  for  generating  the  subcell  pat- 
terns by  decoding  an  extra  byte  of  in- 
formation, using  additional  circuitry. 
Also,  the  refresh  memory  would  have 
to  be  twice  as  big  to  store  these  2-byte 
codes.  This  may  help  to  explain  why 
the  personal  computers  that  use  this 
approach  have  relatively  low  resolu- 
tion.! 


ENTREPRENEURS 

IIIKKI    1H  MORE  THAN  EVER  IN  THE  MICRO- 

II  bLULU      COMPUTER  INDUSTRY. 

The  shortage  of  knowledgeable  dealers/distributors  is  the  #1  problem  of  microcomputer 
manufacturers.  Over  300  new  systems  houses  will  go  into  business  this  year,  but  the  number  falls 
short  of  the  1200  needed.  It  is  estimated  that  the  nationwide  shortage  of  consultants  will  be  over 
3000  by  1981 .  The  HOW  TO  manuals  by  Essex  Publishing  are  your  best  guide  to  start  participating 
in  the  continued  microcomputer  boom. 


$36 


HOW  TO  START  YOUR  OWN  SYSTEMS  HOUSE 

6th  edition,  March  1980 

Written  by  the  founder  of  a  successful  systems  house,  this  fact- 
filled  220-page  manual  covers  virtually  all  aspects  of  starting  and 
operating  a  small  systems  company.  It  is  abundant  with  useful, 
real-life  samples:  contracts,  proposals,  agreements  and  a  complete 
business  plan  are  included  in  full,  and  may  be  used  immediately  by 
the  reader. 

Proven,  field-tested  solutions  to  the  many  problems  facing  the 
small  systems  house  are  presented. 

From  the  contents: 

•  New  Generation  of  Systems  Houses  •  The  SBC  Marketplace  • 
Marketing  Strategies  •  Vertical  Markets  &  lAPs  •  Competetive 
Position  /  Plans  of  Major  Vendors  •  Market  Segment  Selection  & 
Evaluation  •  Selection  of  Equipment  &  Manufacturer  •  Make  or  Buy 
Decision  •  Becoming  a  Distributor  •  Getting  Your  Advertising 
Dollar's  Worth  •  Your  Salesmen:  Where  to  Find  Them  •  Product 
Pricing  •  The  Selling  Cycle  •  Handling  the  12  Most  Frequent  Objec- 
tions Raised  by  Prospects  •  Financing  for  the  Customer  •  Leasing 
No.  10  *  Questions  You  Will  Have  to  Answer  Before  the  Prospect  Buys  • 
Producing  the  System  •  Installation,  Accaptance,  Collection  • 
Documentation  •  Solutions  to  the  Service  Problem  •  Protecting  Your  Product  •  Should  You  Start 
Now?       •       How  to  Write  a  Good  Business  Plan       •       Raising  Capital 


HOW  TO  BECOME 
A  SUCCESSFUL 

COMPUTER 
CONSULTANT 


$28. 


HOW  TO  BECOME  A  SUCCESSFUL  COMPUTER  CONSULTANT 

by  Leslie  Nelson,  May  1980 

Independent  consultants  are  becoming  a  vitally  important  factor  in 
the  microcomputer  field,  filling  the  gap  between  the  computer 
vendors  and  commercial /industrial  users.  The  rewards  of  the 
consultant  can  be  high:  freedom,  more  satisfying  work  and  doubled 
or  tripled  income.  HOW  TO  BECOME  A  SUCCESSFUL  COM- 
PUTER CONSULTANT  provides  comprehensive  background  infor- 
mation and  step-by-step  directions  for  those  interested  to  explore 
this  lucrative  field: 

•  Established  consulting  markets  •  How  to  get  started  •  Itemized 
start-up  costs  •  Are  you  qualified?  •  Beginning  on  a  part-time  basis 

•  The  Marketing  Kit  •  Should  you  advertise?  •  Five  marketing  tips 

•  Getting  free  publicity*  How  much  to  charge*  When  do  you  need  a 
contract?  •  Sample  proposals   •  Which  jobs  should  be  declined   • 

No.  16  Future  markets  •  The  way  to  real  big  money  •   Avoiding  the  legal 

How  consultants'  associations  can  help  you    •    The  National  Register  of  Computer  Con- 
•       How  others  did  it:  real-life  sample  cases      •      and  much  more. 


FREE-LANCE  SOFTWARE  MARKETING      3rd  edition,  June  1980 

Writing  and  selling  computer  programs  as  an  independent  is  a 
business  where  •  you  can  get  started  quickly,  with  little  capital 
investment  •  you  can  do  it  full  time  or  part  time  •  the  potential 
profits  are  almost  limitless.  Since  the  demand  for  computer 
software  of  all  kinds  is  growing  at  an  explosive  rate,  the  conditions 
for  the  small  entrepreneur  are  outstanding. 

This  manual  will  show  you  how  to  sell  your  own  computer  programs 
using  these  proven  techniques:  •  direct  to  industries  •  through 
consulting  firms  •  through  manufacturers  of  computer  hardware 
•  in  book  form  •  mail  order  •  through  computer  stores.  It  will 
show  you  how  to  profitably  sell  and  license  all  types  of  software 
ranging  from  sophisticated  analytical  programs  selling  for  thou- 
sands of  dollars,  down  to  simple  accounting  routines  and  games  for 
personal  computers. 

The  book  will  guide  you  step  by  step  through  the  process  of 
"0.  No.  32         marketing,  advertising,  negotiating  a  contract,  installing  software, 

training  users  and  providing  maintenance  and  support.  It  also  contains  sample  software  contracts 
that  have  been  used  in  actual  software  transactions.  Also  included  are  tips  on  how  to  negotiate  with 
a  large  corporation,  ways  of  avoiding  personal  liability,  techniques  for  obtaining  free  computer  time 
and  hints  on  how  to  run  a  free-lance  software  business  while  holding  a  full-time  job. 


55 


ESSEX  PUBLISHING  CO.  Dept.  2 

285  Bloomfleld  Avenue     •     Caldwell,  N.J.  07006 

Order  books  by  number.  Send  check,  money  order  (U.S.$),  VISA  or  Master  Charge  #. 

Publisher  pays  4th  class  shipping.  For  Air  Mail  shipping  add  $2.50  per  book  in  USA  and 

Canada,  $5.00  In  Europe,  $8.00  elsewhere.  N.J.  residents  add  5%  sales  tax. 

□   No.  10  □  No.  16  □   NO. 32  D  Check  enclosed  D  Creditcard 


Name. 


Address  . 


-State. 


City 

Card  # 

For  faster  shipment  on  credit  card  orders  call  (201)  783-6940  between  9  and  5  Eastern  time. 


-Zip 
_Exp. 


Circle  114  on  inquiry  card. 


November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc        189 


Product  Review 


The  Power  of  VisiCalc 


Robert  E  Ramsdell 

POB59 
Rockport  MA  01966 


At  a  Glance 

Software: 

VisiCalc 

Type: 

Screen-oriented  matrix  calculator 

for  projections,  budgeting,  and 

many  other  numeric/data 

manipulations 

Author: 

Software  Arts  Inc 

Distributor: 

Personal  Software  Inc,  1330 

Bordeaux  Dr,  Sunnyvale  CA 

94086,  (408)  745-7841 

Price: 

$150.00 

Format: 

5-inch  floppy  disk 

Language: 

Machine  language 

Computers: 

Apple  II,  Apple  11+  or  Apple  III; 

Radio  Shack  TRS-80,  Model  I  or 

II;  Atari  800;  Commodore  PET 

and  CBM  computers,  minimum 

32  K  bytes  of  programmable 

memory  required,  48  K  or  more 

recommended 

Documentation: 

Loose-leaf  binder  with  eighty-page 

tutorial  manual,  reference  card 

Audience: 

Businessmen,  accountants, 

attorneys,  real-estate  investors  — 

anyone  who  needs  to  use  a 

calculator  for  determining  options 

available  under  different  scenarios 

Introduction 

The  most  exciting  and  influential  piece  of  software  that 
has  been  written  for  any  microcomputer  application  is 
VisiCalc.  I've  been  using  VisiCalc  almost  full-time  for  the 
past  six  months  and  have  written  over  300  applications 
(which  I  refer  to  as  models)  for  the  program.  During  that 
time  I  have  learned  its  strengths  and  weaknesses  and  have 
found  that  the  authors  have  allowed  for  a  tremendous 
number  of  variables  and  contingencies  in  its  operation. 
The  instant  communication  between  the  operator  and  the 


About  the  Author 

Robert  E  Ramsdell,  CPA,  is  a  microcomputer  consultant  who  lives 
and  works  in  Rockport,  Massachusetts.  His  company,  Pansophics,  Ltd, 
published  federal  income  tax  models  for  1979  and  1980  using  VisiCalc 
and  markets  several  other  financial  modeling  packages. 


screen  facilitates  and  enhances  the  manageability  and  in- 
teractivity of  the  program. 

Since  I  am  a  certified  public  accountant,  the  majority 
of  applications  I  have  written  are  oriented  towards  ac- 
counting, a  usage  for  which  VisiCalc  is  particularly  ap- 
propriate. In  addition,  I  know  of  several  attorneys  who 
are  using  the  program  for  estate-  and  gift-planning,  one 
of  whom  is  maintaining  his  accounts  receivable,  as  well, 
on  VisiCalc.  A  number  of  real-estate  agents  are  using  it  to 
perform  real-property  investment  analysis. 

About  the  Program 

VisiCalc  is  an  electronic  scratch  sheet  that  is  sixty-three 
columns  wide  (lettered  A  thru  BK)  and  254  rows  long 
(numbered  1  thru  254).  Any  column/row  coordinate  can 
be  referred  to  by  any  other  column/row  coordinate 
arithmetically  or  trigonometrically.  Once  the  relation- 
ships between  the  coordinates  have  been  established  in 
the  model,  a  change  in  any  value  which  affects  other 
values  will  be  instantly  updated.  This  gives  the  computer 
operator  the  ability  to  play  instant  what-if  situations  with 
the  value  in  the  matrix. 

The  program  has  a  great  deal  of  flexibility  in  its  for- 
matting, allowing  any  coordinate  to  be  a  label  or  a  value, 
and  allowing  columns  to  be  adjusted  from  three 
characters  to  full-screen  width.  The  screen  can  be  split  in- 
to two  windows,  either  horizontal  or  vertical,  and  each 
can  be  scrolled  independently  of  the  other.  This  makes 
the  comparison  of  information  extremely  easy.  Values 
can  be  formatted  as  full-decimal  notation  (up  to  eleven 
significant  digits),  two-place  decimal  (for  financial 
usage),  and  integer. 

An  annoyance  that  I  have  found  in  the  program  is  its 
inability  to  round  off  integers,  which  causes  columns  to 
add  up  imperfectly.  This  often  creates  the  need  for  a  great 
deal  of  additional  work  when  attempting  to  prepare 
financial  information  directly  from  the  model. 

One  of  the  most  powerful  features  of  VisiCalc  is  its 
ability  to  replicate  an  entire  series  of  coordinate  functions 
with  a  few  keystrokes.  When  creating  models  with  a 
series  of  identical  calculations  (such  as  a  10-year  business 
forecast),  only  the  calculations  for  the  first  column  must 
be  entered.  Then  the  subsequent  columns  can  replicate 
the  same  calculations  (VisiCalc  automatically  uses  the 
new  coordinates)  in  a  matter  of  seconds.  This  is  a  tremen- 
dous time-saving  device  when  elaborate  models  are  being 
created.  The  authors  of  VisiCalc  have  also  provided  the 
ability  to  insert,  delete,  and  move  entire  rows  and  col- 
umns. This  feature  is  useful  if  the  model  is  finished  and 


190        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


the  user  discovers  that  an  important  calculation  was 
omitted. 

VisiCalc  can  be  interfaced  through  most  printers,  and 
various  printer  configuration  routines  are  set  up  directly 
through  the  program.  The  program  will  output  to  a 
printer  with  any  number  of  character  widths,  so  the 
choice  of  printer  depends  on  the  needs  of  individual 
users.  Finally,  the  methods  by  which  the  program  loads, 
saves,  and  deletes  models  on  the  disk  are  very  well 
designed. 

Specific  Applications 

Accounting  applications  abound  for  VisiCalc.  Finan- 
cial analysis,  business  forecasts,  and  projections  which 
formerly  required  hours  can  be  completed  with  VisiCalc 
in  a  matter  of  minutes.  The  pricing  on  a  bill-of-materials 
inventory  can  be  updated  in  a  matter  of  seconds.  Produc- 
tions estimates  can  be  updated  instantly.  Different 
scenarios  can  be  examined  and  variables  and  constants 
interchanged  until  a  workable  model  is  achieved.  Even 
with  the  advent  of  programmable  electronic  calculators, 
the  complexity  of  forecasting  (due  to  the  interdependency 
of  the  variables)  has  limited  the  accountant  to  either  the 
most  rudimentary  forecast  or  the  extremely  expensive 
alternative  of  time-sharing  on  a  large  computer. 

Sophisticated  and  statistically  valid  time-series  analysis 
can  be  performed  on  VisiCalc.  Lead  and  lag  regression 
analysis  becomes  as  easy  as  entering  the  various  for- 
mulas. Each  of  the  variables  can  be  changed  or  updated, 
and  the  results  of  the  new  analysis  will  be  instantly 
displayed. 

Small  businesses  will  also  find  uses  for  VisiCalc.  A 


model  can  be  created  which  will  allow  for  the  printing  of 
a  financial  statement  whenever  a  trial  balance  is  entered. 
Financial  ratios  and  analysis  are  easily  performed.  The 
model  can  even  calculate  income  tax  and  compare  the 
current  results  with  those  of  a  previous  period  or  a 
budget.  (Some  marketed  models  even  print  out  tax 
returns.)  Also,  budgets  are  relatively  easy  to  prepare 
(thanks  to  the  replicate  command),  and  changes  and  up- 
dates are  easily  entered. 

More  complex  models  can  be  designed  for  areas  such  as 
real  estate  and  stock  market  investment  analysis,  where 
many  interdependent  variables  must  be  given  considera- 
tion. A  change  in  any  of  these  variables  will  instantly 
cause  the  entire  model  to  be  updated,  and  new  com- 
parisons can  be  made. 

Documentation 

VisiCalc  comes  with  an  eighty-page  tutorial  manual 
that's  very  useful  for  the  beginner  and  a  well-designed 
reference  card.  After  one  reading,  however,  the  manual  is 
not  of  very  much  help  in  running  the  program.  A  new 
manual  is  being  written  and  may  be  available  soon.  In 
addition,  several  books  are  in  preparation  which  will  aid 
the  VisiCalc  owner  in  using  the  program. 

Program  Constraints 

The  primary  constraint  of  the  VisiCalc  program  is  the 
programmable  memory  available  to  the  user.  In  the  Ap- 
ple II,  for  example,  a  48  K-byte  machine  will  have  about 
25  K  bytes  available  to  the  user  for  modeling.  This  may 
sound  like  a  lot,  but  in  fact  model  files  require  a  lot  of 
room.  To  compound  this  problem  there  is  no  easy  way  to 


E  •  X  •  P  •  A  •  N 


YOUR 
TRS-80* 


or 


S-100 


INTRODUCING  THE  XTD-TRS  INTERFACE  CARD 
FOR  THE  STD  BUS 

This  card  permits  direct  connection  between  the  TRS-80*  and  the  STD  BUS  system.  The 
TRS-80"  can  even  be  used  as  a  development  system  for  Z-80  STD  BUS.  QC  Microsystems 
distributes  a  full  line  of  STD  BUS  products  from  a  number  of  manufacturers  including 
Mostek,  Xitex,  Intelligence  Systems. 


DDT-80 
ROM 


tlllHMIHt) 
$260  Includes:  DDT-80  ROM 

*TRS-80  and  CP/M  are  registered  trademarks  of  Tandy  Corp.  and  Digital  Research,  respectively. 


•—  OFF  THE  SHI 

•ILFS 

TD  BUS  PRODUCTS  — i 

AVAILABLE  NOW: 

MDX-CPU1 

$260 

Z80  CPU/RAM/PROM 

MDX-CPU2 

$295 

Z80  CPU/RAM/PROM 

MDX-DRAM  8/32 

• 

Dynamic  RAM 

MDX-PIO 

$250 

Parallel  I/O 

MDX-A/D  8.10.12 

• 

A/D  Converters 

MDX-D/A  8,  12 

* 

D/A  Converters 

SYS-CPM- 

* 

CP/M  2.2  Disk  S.W. 

MDX-MATH 

$699 

Floating  Point  Math 

MDX-SIO 

$260 

Serial  I/O 

XTD-VDT 

Video  Interface 

PROM-I 

$165 

PROM  Programmer 

MDX-EPROM/UART 

$225 

Combination  PROM/UART 

CARD  CAGES 

8-22  Slot  with  MotherBoard 

POWER  SUPPLY 

$135 

•Contact  QC  for  Pricing  Options 

i — 200  NS  MEMORY!! — 

High  speed  4116  RAMS  for  Maximum 
Reliability  from  your  TRS-80*. 

SET  OF  8  FOR  $44 

OTHER  RAMS  $(1-9) 

2114  UCB  1K  X  4  450  NS  5.00 

4118N-4  1K  x  8  250  NS  24.00 

4104N-4  4K  x  1  250  NS  10.50 

PROMS 

2716T-12  2K  x  8  650  NS 
2716T-8  2KX8  450NS 


Z80  PARTS 

Z80-CPU 

Z80-PIO 

Z80-CTC 

Z80-DMA 

Z80-SIO 

MISC. 

12"  video  Monitor  B&W 


2.5  MHZ 

$1(1-9) 

11.00 

8.50 

8.50 

29.00 

37.50 


13.75 
14.50 

4.0  MHZ 

$(1-9) 
15.00 
11.00 
11.00 
37.00 
45.00 

$149.00 


Ask  For  Our  Full  Catalog 
Of  Products  And  Services 

MasterCharge.  Visa,  American  Express.  Check,  C.O.D.  accepted. 
Add  $3.00  for  U.S.  Shipping  &  Handling.  Allow  two  weeks  for 
shipment,  Min.  order  of  $10.00,  All  products  covered  by  a  90  day 
OEM  warrenty.  Prices  subject  to  change  without  notice. 


Overseas  Inquiries  Welcome! 

Micro 

Systems       P.O.  box  401326 

GARLAND,  TEXAS  75040 
(214)  343-1282 

Ask  for  our  complete  catalogue! 


Circle  289  on  Inquiry  card. 


November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc        191 


A 


r  You  can  talk  to  more 
computers,  faster  and  easier, 
with  the 

VET/2fi™»SCOTT 


The  Scott  VET/2  is  a  compact,  highly  versatile  Voice 
Entry  Terminal  developed  for  TRS-80  users  —  and 
available  soon  for  the  PET  and  APPLE  computers.  Key 
features  of  the  VET/2  include: 

•  Easy  to  use  —  all  programs  may  be  written  in  Level  II 
BASIC.  One  USRn  statement  is  all  that's  needed  to 
allow  your  program  to  be  voice  controlled. 

•  Performance  comparable  to  systems  costing  $10,000 
or  more. 

•  High  accuracy  (98+%)  and  fast  recognition. 

•  Supplied  with  demo  programs  and  software  tools. 

•  Connects  directly  to  screen  printer  I/O  port. 

•  Simplified  training  mode  with  automatic  prompting. 

•  Overlay  features  make  vocabulary  size  virtually 
unlimited. 

The  user  manual  fully  describes  the  operation  and 
training  procedures  for  the  VET/2  and  includes  com- 
plete instructions  on  interfacing  the  VET  with  BASIC 
programs. 

All  hardware  covered  by  90-day  warranty.  Software 

guaranteed  for  replacement  only.  Prices  subject  to  change 

without  notice. 

Send  coupon  or  telephone  today  for  more  information! 


INSTRUMENTS 


815  North  Elm 
Denton,  Texas  76201 


Please  place  my  order  for: 

□  VET/2  (includes  manual 

and  shipping  $898.50 

□  VET/2  Operator's  Manual  $7.20 
Texas  residents  add  5  %  tax 
California  residents  add  6%  tax 

Card  No. 

Ship  to: 

Address 

City State  - 


817/387-1054 

Payment  Enclosed  □ 

Master  Charge  □ 

VISA  D 

C.O.D.  D 

Exp.  Date 


-Zip  . 


%^ 


Sig. 


All  orders  must  be  signed.      ^ 

192        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc  Circle  115  On  inquiry  Card. 


move  information  between  models  (for  example,  in  a 
business  consolidation),  so  that  using  the  same  basic  in- 
formation in  different  models  can  be  a  big  chore. 

The  only  other  limiting  factor  is  the  fact  that  the 
VisiCalc  disk  cannot  be  copied  or  backed  up.  The  ob- 
vious reason  for  this  to  avoid  software  piracy,  but  it 
could  prove  to  be  a  problem  if  someone  decided  that  5x/4 
inches  was  the  perfect  size  for  a  coaster.  There  is  a  dealer 
program  for  instant  replacement,  however. 

Data  Interchange  Format 

Software  Arts  Inc,  the  creator  of  VisiCalc,  has 
developed  a  common  language  for  data  (which  it  uses  in 
VisiCalc)  called  the  DIF  (Data  Interchange  Format).  The 
basic  goal  of  the  DIF  is  to  allow  the  interchange  of  data 
between  many  different  kinds  of  programs  (such  as  data 
bases,  graphing  programs,  report  generators  etc).  The 
type  of  data  which  is  addressed  by  the  DIF  is  data  which 
is  stored  in  tabular  form  —  columns  and  rows.  By  setting 
up  a  standard  for  such  data  handling  it  becomes  easy  to 
manipulate  the  data  through  program  control. 

Programmers  and  others  who  are  interested  in  learning 
more  about  the  DIF  or  would  like  to  purchase  the  Pro- 
grammer's Guide  to  Data  Interchange  Format  ($1.50) 
should  write  to  The  DIF  Clearinghouse,  POB  70,  MIT 
Branch,  Cambridge  MA  02139. 


Conclusions 

•  VisiCalc  is  an  extremely  well-designed  software 
package  that  can  be  used  by  anyone  with  or  without 
a  programming  background.  There  is  no  program- 
ming language  involved  in  the  use  of  VisiCalc. 

•  The  instant  interaction  between  the  user  and  the 
screen  facilitates  the  understanding  of  the  manipula- 
tion of  the  variables  in  the  matrix. 

•  The  ability  to  interchange  data  with  other  programs 
helps  make  VisiCalc  an  integral  part  of  any  business 
systems  package. 

•  VisiCalc  is  the  first  program  available  on  a 
microcomputer  that  has  been  responsible  for  sales  of 
entire  systems.  ■ 


Farewell  to 
the  Florida  panther. 


No  one  knows  how  many 
Florida  panthers  are  still 
Stive.  Perhaps  fewer  than 
100.  If  these  mountain 
lions  die,  another  creature 
will  be  gone  from  the  earth 
forever  . . .  the  victim,  first, 
of  predator  elimination  pro- 
/*  grams,  and  more  recently, 

of  ever-shrinking  habitat. 
But  we  don't  have  to  bid  fare- 
well to  the  Florida  panther. 
The  National  Wildlife  Federation 
hasawaided  a  grant  to  researchers 
to  study  the  panther  and  its  future  .  .  . 
"*"-'■*"  arid  to  draw  up  a  plan  for  saving  it.  That's 

just  one  small  example  of  how  the  National  Wildlife 
Federation  is  working  to  save  endangered  species 
from  extinction  You  can  be  a  part  of  the  effort  jjfl" 
Join  the  National  Wildlife  Federation,  Department  ass 
inft,  1412  16th  Street.  NW,  Washington,  DC  20036.  ™ 


■Technological  Breakthrough- 


COMPUTER- 
METER 

Microprocessor  technology  and 
the  inventors  of  the  digital 
meter  have  teamed  up  to  bring 
you  the  world's  most  versatile 
test  instrument. 


Computers  for  the  home.  Toys  that  speak. 
Machines  that  think.  Space  age  technology 
brings  new  changes  to  your  world  every  day. 
Even  those  of  us  who  work  with  this  new 
technology  are  constantly  amazed  by  the  latest 
applications  of  the  ubiquitous  microprocessor. 
And  here  is  a  remarkable  new  way  for 
computer  techonology  to  simplify  your  work 
life.  When  the  president  of  our  company  (a 
businessman,  not  a  technician)  saw  one  of  the 
pre-production  models  of  this  new  test 
instrument  at  a  trade  show,  even  he  recognized 
it  for  what  it  is:  a  remarkable  new  way  for 
anyone  involved  with  electronics  to  save  time, 
money,  and  space.  We've  shown  it  to  our 
technicians  and  their  reactions  were  similar, 
though  more  down-to-earth:  "I  want  it!" 

There's  much  more  to  tell  about  this 
incredible  little  meter  that  takes  the  place  of  at 
least  3  separate  test  instruments,  but  we're  sure 
that  the  Touch  Test  20  will  end  up  very  near  the 
top  of  your  equipment  list. 

STAYING  AHEAD 

For  three  decades,  the  inventors  of  the  Touch 
Test  20,  Non-Linear  Systems,  have  made  a 
science  of  staying  ahead  through  innovation  in 
test  equipment  In  1952,  NLS  propelled 
electronic  testing  into  the  space  age  by 
introducing  the  world's  first  digital  voltmeter, 
and  they  have  remained  committed  to  first  rate 
value  and  performance  through  sophisticated, 
yet  simplified  electronic  test  tools.  Their 
battery  powered  portable  oscilloscopes  have 
"lightened  the  load"  of  both  field  and 
laboratory  engineers  all  over  the  world,  and 
NLS  digital  panel  meters  have  also  become  a 
world-wide  standard. 

The  Touch  Test  20  adds  to  the  NLS 
reputation  for  accuracy  and  reliability  and 
we're  proud  to  be  among  the  first  to  be  able  to 
offer  it  to  you. 

3  1b  8  oz  TEST  LAB 

We  think  the  Touch  Test  20  is 
miniaturization  at  its  best,  because  no 
compromises  in  accuracy  and  versatility  were 
made  in  the  process  of  squeezing  a  trunk  full  of 
test  equipment  into  a  rechargeable  battery 
powered  portable  test  lab. 

It  will  measure  AC  voltage,  AC  current, 
resistance,  capacitance,  conductance, 
temperature,  DC  voltage,  DC  current, 
continuity,  and  test  diodes  -  20  key  test 
functions,  10  electrical  parameters  and  44 
ranges.  Now,  you  can  take  one  lab  to  the  field 
instead    of    a    cumbersome    collection    of 


individual  testers.  And  in  the  lab,  the  Touch 
Test  20  will  go  a  long  way  toward  cleaning  up 
the  cluttered  array  of  equipment  found  on  most 
test  or  troubleshooting  benches. 

JUST  TOUCH 

The  "touch"  in  Touch  Test  20  means  no 
more  knobs  and  dials  to  fiddle  with: 
selection  of  the  various  functions  is 
accomplished  by  a  tap  of  the  finger  on  one  of 
the  touch  sensitive  switches  on  the  front 
panel.  When  you  switch  functions,  there's 
an  audible  bleep  and  an  LED  lights  to  show 
the  function  selected.  Selecting  the  range  is 
also  a  beautifully  simple  procedure  -  just 
touch  one  of  the  switches  below  the  display 
to  shift  the  decimal  point  to  the  appropriate 
place  for  the  signal  you're  measuring. 


Non-Linear  Systems,  Inc. 

Specialists  in  the  science 
of  staying  ahead. 


SPECIFICATIONS 

VOLTS  1  mV  to  1  KV  @  .2% 

AMPERES    1  uA  to  10  A  @  1% 

OHMS  10  uOhm  to  19.99  MOhm  @  .25% 
TEMPERATURE  -40°  C  to  +150°  C  +/-  3° 
CAPACITANCE  1  pF  to  199.9  uF  @  1% 
CONDUCTANCE  .01  nS  to  199.9  nS  @  .2% 
DIODE  TEST   ...    1  mV  to  1999  mV  <§>  .2% 

SIZE    2.9"  x  6.4"  x  7.5" 

WEIGHT   .     3  lbs  8  oz  (Including  batteries) 


EVEN  IDIOTS 

While  no  intrument  is  totally  idiot-proof,  the 
Touch  Test  20  certainly  comes  close:  when  any 
function  is  selected,  this  instrument 
automatically  selects  the  least  sensitive  range 
of  the  function,  to  avoid  embarrasing  but  all  to 
common  smoke  test  situations.  We're  told 
(though  we  do  not  advise  such  mistreatment), 
that  you  can  plug  the  test  leads  into  a  120  volt 
wall  socket  and  select  any  function  without 
causing  terminal  damage  to  the  instrument. 

To  complement  these  remarkable 
capabilities,  the  Touch  Test  20  is  shipped  ready 
to  go  to  work  for  you,  complete  with  a  charger 
unit,  rechargeable  batteries,  high  quality  test 
probes,  a  component  test  block,  and  a 
temperature  probe. 

ONE  YEAR  WARRANTY 

Each  Touch  Test  20  is  individually  tested 
and  "burned-in"  at  elevated  temperatures  to 


assure  the  quality  of  the  instrument  shipped  to 
you.  However,  should  the  unlikely  happen,  the 
manufacturer  stands  behind  their  reputation 
for  reliability  with  a  full  one-year  limited 
warranty  against  any  defects  in  material  or 
workmanship.  This  of  course  excludes  damage 
brought  about  through  any  kind  of  abuse,  and 
the  warranty  extends  only  to  the  original 
purchaser. 

PRIORITY  SHIPMENT 

We  at  JADE  have  been  in  the  business  of 
supplying  computers  and  related  equipment  for 
five  years  now,  and  we've  always  guaranteed 
our  customer's  satisfaction.  We  know  that 
you'll  be  happy  with  this  piece  of  equipment,  so 
try  it  for  thirty  days;  if  the  Touch  Test  20 
doesn't  live  up  to  your  expectations,  we'll 
quickly  refund  the  purchase  price.  And  don't 
worry  about  slow  delivery  -  the  manufacturer 
has  assured  us  that  we  will  have  priority 
shipment  of  the  Touch  Test  20  directly  from  the 
factory.  This  plus  our  computerized  order 
processing  system  assures  you  of  the  fastest 
possible  delivery. 

CALL  US  TOLL  FREE 

To  order  your  Touch  Test  20  send  $425.00 
plus  $2.95  shipping  and  handling  to  JADE 
Computer  Products,  4901  West  Rosecrans, 
Hawthorne,  California  90250  (California 
residents  please  add  6%  sales  tax).  Credit  card 
buyers  may  use  one  of  our  toll  free  numbers 
listed  below. 

JADE  Computer  Products  has  been  an 
industry  leader  in  the  microcomputer  field  for 
over  five  years  -  further  assurance  of  our 
dedication  to  fast  service  and  continued 
product  support. 


Computer  Products 

4901  West  Rosecrans  Ave 
Hawthorne,  California   90250 


Continental  US . . .  800-421-5500 
Inside  California  .  800-262-1710 
Los  Angeles  Area  213-973-7707 

Call  for  your  free  copy  of  our  catalog  containing 
over  4000  different  computer  products. 


Circle  116  on  inquiry  card. 


Jl 


CBM'"  8032  BUSINESS  COMPUTER 

The  new  Commodore  8032  Business  coomputer  offers  a  wide 
screen  display  to  show  you  up  to  80-character  lines  of  informa- 
tion. Text  editing  and  report  formatting  are  faster  and  easier 
with  the  new  wide-screen  display.  The  8032  Business  Com- 
puter also  provides  a  resident  Operating  System  with  ex- 
panded functional  capabilities.  You  can  use  Basic  on  the  8032 
Business  Computers  in  both  interactive  and  program  modes. 

with  expanded  commands  and  functions  for  arithmetic. 

editing,  and  disk  file  management.  The  CBM  8032  Business 

Computer  is  ideally  suited  for  the  computing  needs  of  the 

business  marketplace.  Call  for  additional  information. 


£z  commodore 


$1695 


$1795 


*32K  RAM,  14K  4.0  BASIC 

*IEEE  BUS  *80  x  25  CRT 

'Ideal  for  WordProcessing 

or  other  business  /technical  computer  uses. 


CBM™  8050  DUAL  DRIVE  FLOPPY  DISK 

The  CBM  8050  Dual  Drive  Floppy  Disk  is  a  much  enhanced 
version  of  the  intelligent  CBM  2040  Disk  Drive.  The  CBM  8050 
has  all  of  the  features  of  the  CBM  2040,  and  provides  more 
powerful  software  capabilities,  as  well  as  one  megabyte  of 
online  storage  capacity.  The  CBM  8050  supplies  relative 
record  files  and  automatic  diskette  initialization.  It  can  copy 
all  the  files  from  one  diskette  to  another  without  copying 
unused  space.  The  CBM  8050  also  offers  improved  error  recov- 
ery and  the  ability  to  append  to  sequential  files. 


MULTI-USER  TIME  SHARE  OFFERED  TO  YOU  BY  THE 

NEECO  MULTI-CLUSTER 

At  a  low  entry  cost,  up  to  eight  CBM  computers  can  transfer  data  bi-directionally  to  one 
CBM  Dual  Disk  Drive.  The  MULTI-CLUSTER,  designed  with  its  own  independent  power 
supply,  provides  a  connection  from  one  CBM  computer  work  selection  to  other  CBM 
computer  work  stations,  allowing  data  transfer  and  data  access  on  a  priority  queuing  basis. 
This  system  provides  the  cost  effectiveness  required  in  a  multi-using  environment  by 
establishing  the  dual  disk  drive  as  a  central  mass  storage  unit.  This  provides  a  high  degree 
of  disk  accessibility. 

The  standard  configuration  of  this  system  allows  3  CBM*  microcomputers  (maximum  of  8) 
connected  through  the  MULTI— CLUSTER  to  the  IEEE  port  of  the  2040  Disk  Drive.  More 
CBM's  can  be  added  to  the  system  according  to  the  user's  need. 
MULTI-CLUSTER 
Standard  Components  Additional  Component  Prices 

One  Multi-Cluster  Each  extra  CM-100 $250 

Controller MC800A  Output  Printer  Module $200 

Three  Channel  Modules  . . .  CM-100  (for  Centronics  Protocal) $200 

Multi-Cluster  is  a  product  of  BMB  Compuscience. 


NEECO 

PROUDLY 

ANNOUNCES 


.DATASOURCE 1 

"A  full  featured  Database  Manager  for  the  Commodore  8032" 

Never  before  has  a  true  Database  been  available  for  Commodore  Computers.  DATASOURCE  1  contains  database 
capabilities  you  would  not  expect  on  a  microcomputer  system.  Capabilities  like  selective  search  by  any  sub-field  or  field 
within  a  record,  mathematic  manipulation,  up  to  120  fields  per  screen  display,  and  much  much  more!  DATASOURCE  1*8 
major  feature  is  total  usability!  DATASOURCE  was  designed  for  use  by  you! 


MAJOR  FEATURES  INCLUDE: 

•  SCREEN  ORIENTED  •  SELECTIVE  OR  SEQUENTIAL 

SEARCHES  •  UP  TO  120  SORTABLE  DISPLAY  FIELDS  •  UP  TO  2 

DISPLAY  SCREENS  OF  DATA  PER  RECORD  •  HUNT  FUNCTION 

(find  characters  in  any  record)  •  POWERFUL  MATHEMATICAL 

MANIPULATION  •  SUPPORT  PROGRAMS  INCLUDE:  FILE  OR  EDIT 

SCREEN  RECORD,  POWERFUL  SORT/MERGE.  DIRECTORY 

MANAGER.  EXTENDED  OUTPUT  REPORT  GENERATOR,  FULL  «0*" 

COMPATIBILITY  WITH  WORDPRO  4™  FILES.  AND  MUCH.  MUCH        »^> JaJ5» 

MORE!  EMINENTLY  USABLE  BY  NOVICE  USERS.  G   aS?*%Q& 


MAJOR  USES  INCLUDE: 

•  MAILING  LIST 
MANAGEMENT  •  QUERY/CALL 
INFORMATION  •  A/RAGING 
MANAGEMENT  •  CASH  FLOW 
FORECASTS  •  FILE  MANAGEMENT  •  ANY 
PROJECT/PROBLEM  THAT  REQUIRES 
INVENTORY  DATA  OR  FILE 
MANIPULATION! 


<8F 


$495 


•Requires  DOS  2.0  or  DOS  2.5 

AVAILABLE  TO  DEALERS  FROM  MICROAMERICA 

WordPro  4  la  a  registered  trademark  of  Professional  Software  Inc. 


NEECO 

679  Highland  Ave. 
Needham,  MA 
02194 


Mon-Fri  9:30-5:30 

MasterCharge  & 

Visa  Accepted 

(617)449-1760 

Telex:  951021 


MICROAMERICA  DISTRIBUTING 

"Nationwide  distributors  of  Computer  Equipment" 
21  Putnam  Street 
Needham,  MA 

02194  (617)449-4310 


Circle  117  for  NEECO 


Circle  118  for  Microamerica 


NEECO 

PROUDLY 

INTRODUCES 


ALlOMCOMPUTERSI 


ALTOS  ACS  8000-5 

•  Dual  8"  floppy  disks 

•  Megabyte  storage 
.  64K  RAM 

•  Totally  expandable 
to  Hard  Disk  (29MB) 
and  Multi-User 


$5990 


ALTOS  OFFERS  OUR  USERS 
TOTAL  SYSTEM  CAPABILITIES 
AND  FLEXIBILITY ..  . 

•  Z80  based  •  CP/M  •  Multi-User 

•  Hard  Disk  •  Seven  languages 

•  MP/M  •  NEECO  system  support 

•  Full  Word  Processing 


"ALTOS  Computers  offer  you  System 
Flexibility  and  Reliability" 


CONTACT  NEECO  FOR  ADDITIONAL  INFORMATION  ON 
HOW  ALTOS  CAN  BECOME  YOUR  COMPUTER  SOLUTION 


Altos  computers  range  in  price  from  less  than  $3000  to  over  $14,000.  Altos  Computer  Systems'  capabilities 
range  from  single  disk-single  user  to  29  Megabytes-Multi-User. 

ALTOS  computers  are  distributed  to  Dealers/OEMs  in  the  N.E.  Region  by  MICROAMERICA 


Ql       DpDDD  AIIIJ         Trial  Tested  Osborne  Business  Packages  on  the  Superbrain 
wWl    d^DITI#%IPI  •  Accounts  Receivable    $250.00        Complete  4  Module 

QflPTWADP  •  General  Ledger  $250.00  Package  $795 

^Vrl   VVHnC  •  Accounts  Payable         $250.00  MicrosoftBASIC 

(Business  Packages  written  in  MicrosoftBASIC)    •  Payroll  Packaqe  $250  00  s325 


SUPERBRAIN 

32K  RAM  $2795 
64K  RAM  $2995 

FORTRAN    $  450 

The  Superbrain  is  ideal  for  use  as  an  intelligent 
terminal  or  stand  alone  microcomputer  system  for 
OEM's,  commercial  customers,  and  other  • 

sophisticated  computer  users." 


SPECIAL  OFFER! 

Purchase  a  64K  Superbrain 
at  $2995  and  will  include 
MBASIC5  for  only  $250! 
(regularly  $350) 


SPECIAL  OFFER!  -  Purchase 
a  Centronics  704-9  (RS232, 
180  CPS,  retail  $2380)  printer 
and  a  64K  Superbrain  together 
for  only  $4595  -  cash  price  only. 

Two  5.25"  Shugart  Minifloppies  with  over 

300  K  (CP/M  Version  2.2  or  later)  Disk  Storage.| 

Integrated  in  a  single  compact  housing. 

CP/M  operating  System  with  MBASIC5  and 
other  interpreters/compilers  available. 

32K  or  64K  RAM  models  available. 

2  I/O  Ports  -  one  fully  enabled  RS232 
port  for  communications.  Other  port  for 
RS232  serial  printer  output. 

Too  many  software  packages  are  now 
available  to  list  them  here. 

OEM/DEALER  INQUIRIES 

All  pricing  and  specifications  are  subject  to  change.l 


1 


NEECO 


Mon-Fri  9:30-5:30 
MasterCharge  & 
679  Highland  Ave.       Visa  Accepted 
Needham,  MA       (617)  449-1  760 
Telex:  951021 


02194 


ISUPRBRAIN 

|The  Honor  Graduate 


MICROAMERICA  DISTRIBUTING 

"Nationwide  distributors  of  Computer  Equipment" 
21  Putnam  Street 
Needham,  MA  _ 

Q2194  (617)  449-4310 


Circle  119  for  NEECO 


Circle  120  for  Microamerica 


BYTE  November  1980 


195 


Product  Review 


The  MicroAngelo  Video  Display 


Mark  Dahmke 
1515  Superior  St 
Lincoln  NE  68521 


Introduction 

The  MicroAngelo  high-resolution  raster  graphics 
display  stands  well  above  other  S-100  graphics  displays 
in  its  price  and  performance  range.  Since  the 
MicroAngelo  is  actually  a  single-board  microcomputer,  a 
great  number  of  functions  that  previously  had  to  be  per- 
formed by  the  host  computer  are  now  done  in  firmware 
on  the  graphics  board.  Rather  than  using  the  memory- 
address  space  of  the  host  as  a  graphics  display  buffer 
(32  K  bytes  in  this  case),  the  host  communicates  with  the 
MicroAngelo  through  two  parallel  ports  with  simple  yet 
powerful  commands.  The  MicroAngelo  decodes  these 
commands  and  automatically  performs  the  desired  func- 
tions independently  of  the  host  processor.  With  this 
parallel-processing  capability,  system  response  time  is 
greatly  enhanced. 


Hardware  Overview 

The  MicroAngelo  consists  of  a  Z80A  microprocessor 


with  32  K  bytes  of  on-board  programmable  memory 
and  4  K  bytes  (expandable  to  8  K  bytes)  of  PROM  (pro- 
grammable read-only  memory)  firmware.  The  board 
contains  all  hardware  necessary  to  generate  a  512  by  480 
dot  black-and-white  display  for  a  television  monitor  (10 
MHz  bandwidth  or  greater).  The  board  communicates 
with  the  host  through  two  parallel  ports  which  may  be 
addressed  to  any  of  eight  blocks  of  ports  from  hexa- 
decimal 00  to  F0.  The  video  monitor  may  be  connected 
via  composite  video  (RS-170  standard)  or  direct-drive 
transistor-transistor-logic-level  video,  horizontal  and 
vertical  synchronization. 

The  MicroAngelo  has  four  possible  interrupt  sources: 
data  from  host,  data  to  host,  light  pen,  and  60  Hz  timer. 
Whenever  a  data  byte  is  sent  by  the  host  or  the  host  reads 
a  data  byte  sent  to  it,  an  interrupt  will  occur  in  the 
MicroAngelo.  An  interrupt  will  occur  when  the  light  pen 
is  fired  and  also  when  the  timer  produces  a  pulse.  Of 
these  four  possible  interrupts  only  the  data  from  host  and 
light  pen  sources  is  usually  enabled. 


At  a  Glance 

Hardware: 

MicroAngelo  high-resolution 

MicroAngelo  and  the  host  com- 

graphics display. 

puter  is  facilitated  by  two  parallel 

Use: 

High-resolution  raster-scan 

ports.  The  MicroAngelo  also  has  a 

graphics  display  which  may  be 

dumb  terminal  emulation  mode. 

used  to  draw  character  or  graphics 

Firmware: 

PROM  (programmable  read-only 

images  on  a  standard  television 

memory)  firmware  is  provided  on- 

monitor. 

board  the  MicroAngelo.  High-level 

Manufacturer: 

Scion  Corporation 

commands  may  be  sent  via  parallel 

8455-D  Tyco  Rd 

ports.  Such  functions  as  "turn  on 

Vienna  VA  22180 

dot"  or  "draw  vector"  are  im- 

(703) 827-0888 

plemented  by  single  commands. 

Price: 

The  MicroAngelo  graphics  board 

The  on-board  Z80  intercepts  these 

and  firmware  (the  S-100  board  on- 

commands and  performs  the 

ly)  is  $1095.  Also  available  is  the 

desired  functions. 

Graphics  Subsystem  which  in- 

Hardware 

Any  S-100  mainframe  computer  or 

cludes  the  MicroAngelo  S-100 

required: 

any  computer  which  has  an  S-100 

board,  a  graphics  keyboard  (IBM 

bus  adapter.  Although  the 

Selectric-style  keyboard  with  some 

MicroAngelo  uses  a  Z80 

special  function  keys)  and  a  high- 

microprocessor,  the  host  processor 

resolution  15-inch  monitor.  Cost: 

need  not  be  8080/Z80  compatible. 

$2495.  A  light  pen  is  optional. 

Documentation: 

An  eighty-page  user's  manual  is 

Features: 

The  MicroAngelo  S-100  board 

supplied. 

generates  a  512  by  480  dot  black- 

Audience: 

Anyone  requiring  high-resolution 

and-white  raster  display.  Com- 

intelligent graphics  on  a  small 

munication  between  the 

system. 

196        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  121  on  Inquiry  card. 


~,„.u  «uitts*5  JWidUKoaojW  crapyv 


.nci<  fi/ddns  jncnod  pur> 
.00Z$ams°opulPu*>Wdnsx<nod 

l>     S6£*  ainP°W  V/Q  M3G3 


w.     iguueqo  f 

»-    nasi 


s}U3UJ3Ji.nbai 
Oao»    3jBrt\yos  ibuiiuiya/  • 

s3U.|0fZX3U!l/sPx!dH5,  - 
'uonniosaa  Lunwixew  • 

(a^q/siaxi.d  8)  sDiqdeJD 
3WMP^M^iaAB|ds!P 

<S  siqepapS  M^S  • 

S|3/\3TfejQ9l    • 

33J1J3M3!U'33S09/1 

m  stasia  pue  s9zW6!a  « 

auiii  1E3M  001S 

— AOl+oiO 

,      .  -  •  »r-E  ' AC7+  -.saBuBJ  indino 
'AS+  o;  0  'A01+  ftfffjSS  ^otuaui  jo  o/l  • 

8uuii  6ui|«as  D3STV  £  • 
Adbjtode  iiq  Z I  • 

SSpiAOjd  pJEOg  V/Q  SJBLUJrfX  ■ 


njBoq  uoisuixftra  iu;m 

■pjeofl  uoisuedra  I3d  Jo  08-SiU 

Cfifr$  3inP°W  a/V  M3E3     •« 
p3P"33lBu!S-MD9l      * 

iBnu3j3jjia  "ud  8    4 

a/v  a" " 

x08-SMl 


S6C$ 


3Jopoiuiuoo  jo  Xieu.3P«l  ;63Mp 

sc$  O/l  PJPWd 

O/l  13|lGJBd 

O/lWOHd 
9808 

8*M9l/9l*>18 

vsva 

s;dniJ3}ui  p3Jop3*/A\ 
0<*$  "do  9808 

SOMVO900VS 

— -  "^ojinbai  aie«vyos  iBiuiujW  • 

„,  «  'Ar'i  'Ani+  :s36ubj  indul  • 
A5+  <*  0  'A01+  °>  0  A5+dA0l+ oiuaa]  jq  q/j  # 

indq6nojqi  ZHM  52  • 
ADEjnDDBiiqZl  • 

S3MD1V3J  OOlCIV-Wl 
S6fr$  sP33U  jnoA  ,33m  d«  piB09  a/V  00  IS 

*«*  ^UO  i  *5  «  SP33U  UO^b,.  «P  —I 


S3 1  friz  HO  'pirepA&p  •  u/v\B|U93jr)  pip£z 


66SZ.Z8£(91Z) 

DNI  'MVWD3X 

indu]  3|npoai  sqi 

oi  pspauuoD  A|p3j|p  aq  oi  saBneB  ujbjis 

pus  sjosu9s  gjnsssjd  'S9[dnoDOLUJ3iJi  sb 

qons  sjosuas  pAS[  a\o|  6uiii[UiJ9d 

(USA  AO I  °i  A^O  I )  bBubj  9p|A\  'pA9|  a\ct| 

AoBjnoDB  ;iq  21  ljijaa  indq6nojqi  zf_j!H  001 


3NI 


SH       33 


uoiiesirediuoo  uoipunf  ppD 

9|dnODOUJJ3lJl  |BUO|ldO  ljiim  pusd 

Bu|UO!l!pUOD  |BUB|S  pUB  IBUJLUJ31  A\9JDg 

A;>Bjn:>DB  iiq  g  [ 

AoBjnDDB  iiq  p\ 

005  °1  dn  ujbB  aiqBLuaiBjBojj 


swoiido  oozav-wi 


idnjjaiuj  pajopaA  saziii;]-)  * 

UO[P9|3S  33jnOS  lUnOD  pUB  Bur,BB  BiqBLUUUBjBojJ    • 

sindino  BuiA3>) 
yiqs  Aousnbsjj  pus  spAo  Ainp  x3|daio3  * 
sindino  ADusnbsji  snonuiiuoo  jo  loqs  suo  • 

SJ31UnOD  2  uo  SJOlBJBdlJJOD  LUJB|V    • 

J31UnOD  lU3Ag    * 

ABp  JO  3UJ|_L   • 

3SH  |BUJ31X3  JOJ  3|qB|IBAB  S3U||  5  [    # 

(3|qBpBDsso)  sjsiunoD  iiq  9i  luspuadspuj  q 

S3MDIVHJ  M3W1I 

spuuBqD  ggi  01  uojsuBdxa  joj  uoisiaojj  « 

a/V  P  JS8I  sn;Bis  jo  ldrujaiu!  pajopaA  sazjijif)  « 

paddeuj  Ajolusui  jo  q/i  • 


BujiuaiuajDU!  puuBqo  o;ny 

AjBuiq  psjjo 

'AjBuiq  'iuauj3[dujo3  s,oa\i  :sibujjoj'  indino 

A5+  01  0  'A01+  01 0  'A5+  'A01+  :s3Bubj  indu| 

indL|6nojqi  J3qBiq 

joj  Bujujpdjd  6ujpjAOjd  psqoiB|  s|  bibq 

uojpapp  urujaAo  bibq 

Sa/V  BuiziuojqDuAs  joj  uojsiaoj^ 

a/V  JO  J366U1  |BUJ91X3 

spuueqD  |Biiu9J3jjip  gnji  g 

jo  papu3-9|Bujs  gi  joj  3|qBpaps-J3dujnp 

pjBpuBjs  AoBjrooB  iiq  ^  [ 

pjepuBjs  indqBnojqi  ZHM  0£ 

spjom  i|q  91  jo  9  u\  BiBp  sjsjsubjx 

suojiBDypsds  00  IS  3331  W*  ssiidujo^ 


S3HD1V3J  OOZdVWI 

■suoiiBDHddB  jaqio  Aubuj  pue  SuiAa))  y!qs  ADuanbaji  'Buiiunco  }uaA3  'Aep  jo  aujii  joj  Aiiua 
■puBdapu!  pasn  aq  os|B  ubd  pue  uo!SJaAuoD  a/V  }jb;s  ubd  qDNM  (ClS6  awv)  „nDJID  J3ain 
pjjaMod  e  suibiuod  i|  -suibB  Pub  saBuej  aiqeueA  lindqBnojqi  zHW  00l  lADBjnaDB  jra  qi  t»i 
21  sb  qans  sucuido  BuipiAOjd  sappouj  q/V  shouba  a)BpouiUJ03DB  ubd  pjBoq  au,  -spaau 
ucHiismbae  b}bP  pa^Djisiqdos  }aauj  05  pauBisap  s]  pjBog  may,  Pub  q/v  A\au  s  jBUJDa! 

sM3WII3a/V00l-S. 


^ 


flW 


A  connector  is  provided  for  the  light  pen  interface. 
Several  commercially  available  light  pens  will  work  with 
the  MicroAngelo. 

Jumper  Options 

Several  on-board  jumpers  are  provided  for  special  ap- 
plications. For  example,  it  is  possible  to  increase  the  clock 
speed  of  the  Z80A  microprocessor  (and  hence  the  speed 
of  the  board)  from  4  MHz  to  5  MHz,  assuming  that  all 
the  components  are  capable  of  operating  at  that  speed. 
Interrupts  (as  previously  discussed)  may  be  enabled  or 
disabled.  The  number  of  visible  scan  lines  may  be 
changed  from  the  default  480  to  448  lines.  If  this  option  is 
chosen,  the  user  is  responsible  for  display  management. 
The  PROM  sockets  may  be  jumped  to  either  the  default 
1  K  byte  per  PROM  or  2  K  bytes  per  PROM. 


Photo  1:  The  MicroAngelo  Graphics  Subsystem.  Included  in  the 
subsystem  are  the  MicroAngelo  S-100  board,  the  15-inch  high- 
resolution  black-and-white  monitor,  and  a  special  keyboard 
that  has  an  IBM  Selectric-style  layout  plus  some  special  function 
keys  on  the  far  left  and  right.  The  light  pen  is  optional. 


Photo  2:  A  close-up  of  the  MicroAngelo  S-100  board.  The 
board  has  a  Z80A  microprocessor,  32  K  bytes  of  memory,  and 
four 2708  PROMS  (expandable  to  8  Kbytes2716PROMs).  The 
board  is  actually  a  stand-alone  32  K  computer.  The  video 
display  generates  512  by  480  dots.  In  the  ALPHA  mode,  up  to 
85  by  40  characters  may  be  displayed  on  the  screen. 


Adapting-MicroAngelo  to  Non- S-100  Systems 

Since  the  MicroAngelo  uses  a  simple  parallel-port  in- 
terface to  the  host  system,  it  may  be  attached  to  almost 
any  host  system.  Data  is  transferred  via  the  eight  parallel 
input  and  eight  output  lines  of  the  S-100  bus  connector. 
Power  is  supplied  through  pin  1  (  +  8  V),  pin  2  (  +  18  V), 
pin  52  (  —  18  V),  and  pin  50  (ground).  Address  bus  lines 
A7,  A6,  A5,  A4  and  pDBIN  may  be  tied  permanently 
high  (  +  5  V);  Al  and  pWR  are  tied  low  (ground).  A0  is 
connected  to  the  host  to  select  whether  port  0  or  1  is 
addressed.  (MicroAngelo  uses  two  ports.)  sINP  and 
sOUT  are  connected  to  the  host  as  input-and-output- 
control  command  lines.  Using  this  twelve-line  interface, 
the  MicroAngelo  becomes  a  stand-alone  graphics  display 
device.  If  interrupts  are  required,  they  may  be  easily 
added  to  the  above  set  of  signals. 

Firmware 

The  MicroAngelo  firmware  is  what  makes  the  board  so 
powerful.  It  takes  all  the  work  out  of  designing  software 
and  applications  programs  for  the  MicroAngelo.  The 
Screenware  Pak  I  is  a  well-integrated  firmware  package 
that  allows  the  board  to  be  used  as  a  terminal  emulator,  a 
graphics  display,  or  both. 

If  a  byte  is  sent  to  the  MicroAngelo  (via  the  parallel 
port),  it  is  interpreted  by  the  firmware  in  one  of  two 
ways.  If  bit  7  (the  most  significant  bit)  is  turned  on,  the 
byte  is  seen  as  a  command.  If  it  is  off,  the  firmware  treats 
it  as  an  ASCII  character  and  passes  it  to  the  terminal  or 
ALPHA  mode  program. 

In  the  text  mode,  the  board  will  display  forty  lines  with 
eighty-five  characters  per  line.  Text  and  graphics  may  be 
mixed  on  the  screen.  In  the  dumb  terminal  mode,  the 
firmware  will  respond  to  the  following  control  codes: 
backspace,  horizontal  tab,  line  feed,  form  feed,  carriage 
return,  escape,  and  delete. 

Several  features  are  available  in  the  terminal  mode.  It 
is  possible  to  display  black-on-white  or  white-on-black 
characters,  for  example.  Underlining  may  be  turned  on 
and  off,  and  character  overstriking  may  be  allowed  or 
disallowed.  Two  fonts  are  available,  the  standard 
character  set  or  a  user-defined  font.  The  winking  cursor 
may  be  displayed  or  inhibited,  and  the  scroll  mode  may 
be  changed.  Scrolling  may  be  done  on  a  line-by-line 
basis,  or,  to  improve  response  time,  block  scrolling  may 
be  done.  Cursor  addressing  is  available  —  rows  run  from 
0  to  39,  columns  from  0  to  84.  It  is  also  possible  to  query 
the  firmware  to  obtain  the  current  cursor  location. 

Graphics-Mode  Commands 

The  display  may  be  manipulated  in  many  ways  in  the 
graphics  mode.  First,  the  graphics  cursor  may  be  set  to  a 
value,  read  or  queried,  or  set  to  the  contents  of  the  alpha 
cursor  and  vice  versa.  The  format  for  most  graphics- 
mode  commands  is: 

<Command>  <xh>  <xl>  <yh>  <yl> 

where  xh  and  xl  are  the  high  and  low  bytes  of  the  X  coor- 
dinate and  yh,  yl  are  the  high  and  low  bytes  of  the  Y 
coordinate  respectively  (in  hexadecimal).  The  coor- 
dinates (384,256)  would  be  sent  as: 

<Command>  <01>  <80>  <01>  <00> 


198 


November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


THE  NEXT  GENERATION  OF  MICROCOMPUTERS  IS  HERE 

AT  QUASAR  DATA  PRODUCTS 


16  BIT  POWER 

Z-8000 


8  BIT  POWER 

Z-80 


AND  STILL  RUN  YOUR  8  BIT  SOFTWARE 

IF  YOU  see  it  our  way  then  we  think  we  have 
the  products  for  you: 

•  The  S- 100  bus  is  here  to  stay.  It  is  not  the  greatest  but  with  proper 
termination  it  works  reliably  at  high  speeds,  and  since  it  is  now  an 
IEEE  standard,  it  is  well  defined. 

•  The  8  BIT  systems  are  useful  but  they  are  the  limiting  factor  for 
many  applications 

•  The  16  BIT  systems  are  the  way  future  systems  will  go.  Why  not? 
There  is  very  little  price  difference  and  an  order  of  magnitude 
performance  difference. 

•  The  real  usefulness  of  the  16  BIT  microprocessors  will  be  determined 
by  the  software. 

•  The  systems  using  5V4  inch  disk  drives  really  do  not  have  adequate 
memory  storage  or  computer  power  for  many  business  or  scientific 
applications. 

•  Sixty-four  kilobytes  of  addressable  RAM,  the  maximum  for  8  BIT 
systems,  is  not  adequate  for  many  business  or  scientific  applications. 

•  It  is  not  worth  buying  8  BIT  systems  or  boards  now  if  you  can  get 
the  same  software  with  16  BIT  systems  at  about  the  same  price. 


•  The  new  16  BIT  microprocessors  have  power  comparable  to 
minicomputers  but  do  not  require  the  same  overhead  in  terms  of 
downtime,  maintenance,  or  initial  investment.  They  are  more 
versatile   in   many  applications  such  as  real  time  applications. 

THIS  IS  WHAT  QDP  HAS  AVAILABLE: 

•  A  Z-8000  Board  that  can  plug  into  your  existing  S- 100  Bus  System 
(see  below  for  description) 

•  A  complete  Z-8000  System  (see  below  for  description) . 

•  A  Z-8000  System  configured  for  your  exact  needs. 

•  Software  to  allow  you  to  run  all  the  available  Z-80/8080  software 
including  CP/M. 

•  Software  that  includes  a  Monitor,  Debugger,  Disassembler,  and  Basic. 

•  Software  options:   a)   Extended  Monitor,   b)   Simulators   for 
8080,  Z-80,  6800,  6502,  1802. 

•  A  Z-80  System  (QDP-100)  that  is  upward  compatible  with  the  Z-8000. 

THIS  IS  WHAT  IS  COMING  FROM  QDP: 

•  A  128  kilobyte  RAM  card.  •  UNIX'  operating  system. 


Z-8000  SERIES  16  BIT  CPU  S-100  BOARD  -  CAN  BE  PLUGGED  INTO  YOUR  EXISTING  SYSTEM  $695.00 


Fully  S-100  IEEE  compatible. 

Supports  existing  8  BIT  memory  and  8  BIT  peripheral 

boards. 

Capable  of  reading  and/or  writing  8  BIT,  16  BIT,  or 

mixes   8   BIT   and    16    Bit   memories   automatically. 

8  BIT  and/or  16  BIT  peripheral  modules  can  simultaneously 

co-exist  in  the  same  bus  without  any  modifications. 

Capable  of  operating  as  a  slave  processor  to  enable  your  existing 

CPU  to  control  the  Z-8000. 


Industrial 
Quality 


Supports    either    segmented    CPU    or    non-segmented    CPU. 

•  Power-on  and  reset  jump  dip  switch  selectable. 

•  Jumper  selectable  2  or  4  MHz.  operation. 

•  Dip  switch  selectable  number  and  type  of  wait  states. 

SOFTWARE 

•  Z-80  emulator  enables  you  to  execute  your  existing  8  BIT  software 
without  any  modifications  and  allows  you  to  run  CP/M 
immediately. 

•  Extended  Monitor,  Debugger,  Disassembler. 


QDP-8100  WITH  2  MEGABYTES  STORAGE 
STANDARD  (OPTIONAL  4  MEGABYTES) 

Z-8000  series  16  BIT  CPU  S-100  Board  -  see  above 


SYSTEMS 


SOFTWARE  (Provided  with  system) 

•  CP/M  2.2'  operating  system 

•  Basic 

•  Z-80/8080  Emulator 

•  Monitor,  Debugger,  Disassembler  software 

•  Optional  software:  Pascal 

•  UNIX2  operating  system  coming 


$6,395. 


QDP-100  WITH  2  MEGABYTES  STORAGE 
STANDARD  (OPTIONAL  4  MEGABYTES) 

•  Z-80  series  8  BIT  CPU  S-100  Board  (4  MHz.  Z-80,  Double  density 
disk  Controller,  2716  Prom  Burner  2  Parallel  &  2  Serial  Ports,  real 
time  clock) 

SOFTWARE  (Provided  witn  system)         «fc  /%     QQCfc 

•  CP/M  2.2' operating  system  q»*W»^^%»e 

•  Basic 

•  Accounts  Receivable,  General  Ledger,  Accounts  Payable, 
Payroll  with  Cost  Accounting 

•  Optional  software:  Fortran,  Pascal,  Cobol,  C 


EACH  SYSTEM  CONTAINS: 

Intelligent  CRT  terminal  (80  characters  X  24  lines)   •  64  kilobytes  RAM  •  Two  8  inch,  double  sided,  double  density  floppy  disk  drives  with  controller 
•  2  serial  and  1  parallel  (2  parallel  for  QDP-100)  ports  •  Attractive  woodgrain  cabinet  with  power  supplies  and  cabling 

FULL  TECHNICAL  SUPPORT    FROM  THE  STAFF  AT  QUASAR  DATA  PRODUCTS 


4  Mhz  64K  Dynamic  RAM 

16K  -  S250M       32K  -  s350"       48K  -  S450M       64K  -  s54900 

QUASAR  FLOPPY  SYSTEM 

•  Two  MFE  DBL  sided  drives  •  Cable  •  Case  &  Power  Supply 
assembled  and  tested  Wood  cabinet    s1895°<' 

QUASAR  2  MEG  FLOPPY 

•  2  MFE  double  sided  drives 

P*  Teletek  disk  controller  board 
•  Power  supply  &  cable 
•  Wood  cabinet 
•  CP/M  version  2.2  &  bios 

•  Assembled  &  tested s2295" 

Dealer  Inquiries  Invited.  Hours:9-5:30  M-F 

Specifications  Subject  To  Change 
M"  Digital  Research  "UNIX"  Bell  Lab  "Z-80001 "  Zilog 


TELETEK  DBL.  DENSITY,  DBL.  SIDED 

Disk  Controller  Board s395" 


MFE  Double  Sided  -  Double  Density 

8"  Floppy  Disk  Drives,  (the  best) 65000 

Using    the    Teletek    Controller    under    CP/M, 
THIS    DRIVE    WILL    GIVE    YOU    ALMOST 
ONE  MEGABYTE  PER  DISK  DRIVE. 
Power  supply  for  above "llO"0 


PAPER  TIGER 

Includes  Graphics s949" 

Cable  for  TRS-80 S39M 

Call  for  Apple 


TI  -  820 

Serial  Printer  - 
Full  package  options. .  .  s1995" 


»Z-80™  Zilog 


Checks,  money  orders  accepted 
Add  $2.50  freight  charges  on  orders  under  10  lbs.  Over  10  lbs.  F.O.B.  Cleveland 

QUASAR  DATA  PRODUCTS 

10330  Brecksville  Rd.,  Brecksville,  OH  44141  (216)  526-0838  or  526-0839 


Circle  122  on  Inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980        199 


Photo  3a,  3b,  3c,  3d,  3e,  3f:  Sample  displays  produced  with  the  MicroAngelo  graphics  board.  Vectors  may  be  drawn  with  single 
high-level  commands. 


200        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Automated 
Iquipment 
i ncqrporated 


Toll-Free  Ordering 

1-800-854-6003 
714-739-4701 


Outside  Calif. 


Inside  Calif. 
Outside  Cont.  USA 


TERMINALS 

TELEVIDEO  91 2B $698 

TELEVIDE0  912C 698 

TELEVIDEO  920B 748 

TELEVIDEO 920C 748 

SOROC  IQ-120 695 

ZENITH  A-19 850 

HAZELTINE  1500 850 


1 1  0  EI  B    D  tl  Q  !1 
>*J|>I  I  1  '.I'I'll 
;|-  I  D  fl  (I    E  !!  II  1 

ia&j-rii  'ri-.n 


NORTHSTAR 

HRZ-1-32K-D $1990 

HRZ-2-32K-D 2295 

HRZ-1-32K-Q 2450 

HRZ-2-32K-Q 2690 

ADDITIONAL  16K  RAM 365 

ADDITIONAL  32K  RAM 565 

HARD  DISC  SYSTEM 3935 

DM6400  64K  RAM  MAY  BE  SUBSTITUTED 
FOR  ASM  32K  NORTHSTAR  FOR  $140. 
NORTHSTARS  WITHOUT  MEMORY  AVAIL- 
ABLE. 


PRINTERS 

NEC5510(TRACT.,RIB.,THIM) $2600 

NEC  5515  (TRACT.,  RIB.,  TH I M) 2700 

NEC  5520  (TRACT.,  RIB.,  THIM) 2900 

NEC5530(TRACT.,RIB.,THIM) 2600 

MALIBU 2295 

TI-810 1495 

TI-820 1640 

EPSON   MX80 CALL 

AN  ADEX  DP-8000 795 

ANADEXDP-9500 1345 


BOARDS  KIT         ASM 

CB2   Z80CPU $200 $265 

VB1C   VIDEO 140 190 

VB2     VIDEO 155 210 

VB3     VIDEO 375 440 

I04      INTERFACE 165 225 

SB1     SYNTHESIZER 195 270 

MEASUREMENT  SYSTEMS  MEMORY 

DM    3200  32K  4MHZ 480 

DM    6400  64K  4MHZ 595 

DMB3200  32K  4MHZ  BANK  SELECT.    630 
DMB6400  64K  4MHZ  BANK  SELECT.    745 


DYNABYTE 

DB  8/1   48K $  2395 

DB  8/1   64K 2715 

DB  8/2  48K 3900 

DB  8/2  64K 4200 

DB  8/4  SINGLE 3030 

DB  8/4   DUAL 3830 

10M  WINCHESTER 4630 

32M  PHOENIX 11800 

64M  PHOENIX 15000 

96M  PHOENIX 18000 


SOFTWARE 

WORDSTAR $350 

MAILMERGE 100 

DATASTAR 250 

N.S.  PASCAL 175 

MAGIC  WAND 290 

CBASIC 100 

BOOKKEEPER 800 


ADDITIONAL  DISCOUNTS  FROM  OUR 

SOFTWARE  PRICES  WHEN  PURCHASING 

A  SYSTEM  FROM  US 


GRAHAM-DORIAN 
JOB  COSTING$700 
INVENTORY..  475 
CASH  REG ...  475 
APARTMENT.  475 
MEDICAI 700 


STRUCTURED  SYS 

ACCTSREC $700 

ACCTS  PAY 700 

GENLEDG 700 

PAYROLL 700 

INVENTORY  ...    425 


We  will  try  to  beat  any  advertised  price. 

Automated  Equipment  Inc. 
Suite  #D 

4341  W.  Commonwealth  Ave. 
Fullerton,  Calif.  92633 


DISCUS-1    1 
DISCUS-1   2 
DISCUS  2D  1 
DISCUS  2D   2 
DISCUS  2 +  2   1 
DISCUS  2 +  2  2 


MORROW 

DRIVE $  815 

DRIVE 1465 

DRIVE 970 

DRIVE 1635 

DRIVE 1265 

DRIVE 2245 


DISC  JOCKEY  1 190 

DISC  JOCKEY  2D 350 

DISCUS  M26  HARD  DISC 3990 

ADDITIONAL  HARD  DISC 3685 


MISC 

NEC   THIMBLES $   16 

NEC    RIBBONS 6 

RS232CABLE5' 20 

RS  232  CABLE  10' 25 

LEDEX  MONITOR 125 

NOVATION   CAT 165 


DISCS-BOX  OF  10 

VERBATUM5V4  1SIDE$27 
VERBATUM5V4  2SIDE  45 
VERBATUM8  1  SIDE    35 

VERBATUM8  2SIDE    55 

OTHERS  CALL 


OPEN  MON-FRI  8  AM  TO  5  PM 

TERMS:  All  prices  listed  are  cash  discounted  and  are  subject 
to  change  or  withdrawal.  Credit  cards  and  COD's  are 
accepted  at  2%  additional  handling  charge.  Univer- 
sities and  Well  Rated  Firms  NET-10. 

SHIPPING:  ADDITIONAL  IN  ALL  CASES. 

TECH.  ASSISTANCE:  WE  TRY  TO  HELP  INTERFACE  AND 
TROUBLESHOOT  CALL  714-739-4701 


Circle  123  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


201 


Replacing  <  Command  >  with  <84>  would  cause  the 
firmware  to  set  the  graphics  cursor  to  (384,256)  on  the 
screen.  Some  commands  have  no  operands  such  as  "clear 
screen".  It  is  possible,  with  one  command,  to  toggle  the 
screen  figure/ground.  This  means  that  every  dot  on  the 
screen  will  be  complemented  (ie:  reversed).  If  a  dot  is  on 
(white),  it  will  be  turned  off  (black)  and  vice  versa. 

Individual  dots  may  be  turned  on,  off,  complemented 
or  queried.  The  form  of  this  group  of  commands  is  also: 

<Command>   <xh>  <xl>  <yh>  <yl> 

In  the  case  of  the  query  command,  the  response  is  a  single 
byte  from  the  firmware  with  a  value  of  1  or  0. 

A  vector,  the  next  level  of  sophistication,  may  also  be 
turned  on,  off  or  complemented.  The  endpoint  of  the  vec- 
tor is  specified  in  the  command,  and  the  starting  point  is 
assumed  to  be  the  current  value  of  the  graphics  cursor. 

It  is  also  possible  to  work  with  regions  of  the  display.  If 
we  wish  to  turn  on  all  dots  in  a  box  with  corners  (XI, Yl), 
(X2,Y1),  (X1,Y2),  (X2,Y2)  the  command: 

<95>   <xlh>   <xll>   <ylh>   <yll> 
<x2h>  <x2l>  <y2h>   <y2l> 

would  be  sent.  Regions  may  also  be  turned  off  or  com- 
plemented. 

Characters  may  be  plotted  depending  on  the  graphics 
cursor  and  the  mode  selected  for  graphics  characters.  Op- 
tions available  include: 

•  normal-size  or  double-size  characters 

•  black-on-white  or  white-on-black 

•  direction  and  orientation 


8"  DISK  CONTROLLER 

NOW— DOUBLE  SIDED  OPTION! 

•  DOUBLES  APPLE  ][  STORAGE 

•  APPLE  DOS  COMPATIBLE 

•  SHUGART  800  OR  850  COMPATIBLE 

•  IBM  3740  DATA  ENTRY  CAPABILITY 

•  CP/M,  UCSD  PASCAL  CAPABILITY 
Available  at  your  local  APPLE  Dealer:  $400. 


£SVA> 


SORRENTO  VALLEY  ASSOCIATES 

11722  SORRENTO  VALLEY  RD. 
SAN  DIEGO,  CA  92121 


Alternate  characters  may  be  defined.  When  the  ALPHA 
mode  alternate-character-set  option  is  employed,  sending 
an  ASCII  character  to  the  firmware  will  display  the  alter- 
nate character  instead  of  the  standard  font  character.  To 
define  the  character,  the  following  sequence  of  bytes 
must  be  sent: 

<9A>  <  asc>  <sll>  <sl0> 
<s9>  ...  <sl>  <s0> 

where  9A  is  the  command,  "asc"  is  the  ASCII  character 
code  assigned  to  the  character,  and  sll,  slO,  ...  sO  are  the 
twelve  scan  lines  (6  bits  wide)  that  make  up  the  character 
in  a  6  by  12  dot  array. 

Using  the  Light  Pen 

The  light  pen  provides  a  convenient  means  of  entering 
data  or  drawing  on  the  screen  without  having  to  enter 
numeric  coordinates.  The  coordinates  of  the  pen  may  be 
read  directly,  along  with  a  flag  indicating  whether  or  not 
the  pen  has  been  fired  since  it  was  last  queried.  Cross 
hairs  may  be  displayed  at  any  point  on  the  screen  when 
using  the  light  pen.  Another  set  of  commands  allows  the 
cross  hairs  to  be  displayed,  moved,  and  queried  without 
regard  to  the  light  pen. 

Memory  Uploading/Downloading 

Several  commands  are  provided  for  dumping  and 
loading  the  screen,  thus  allowing  the  user  to  save  images 
on  disk  and  restore  them  for  later  viewing  or  editing. 
Memory  blocks  may  be  examined  or  deposited  allowing 
quick  loading  of  alternate  character  fonts  or  user-written 
code.  The  firmware  allows  the  user  to  deposit  Z80  in- 
structions in  unused  blocks  of  on-board  memory.  The 
user  code  may  be  defined  as  an  op  code  and  thereafter 
treated  as  just  another  firmware  command. 

Concerning  Gray  Levels  and  Color 

The  one  drawback  of  the  MicroAngelo  is  that  it  does 
not  have  gray  levels  —  meaning  the  ability  to  have  levels 
in  between  black  and  white  or  on  and  off.  However,  I 
was  informed  by  Scion  that  another  product,  as  yet  un- 
named, is  available.  This  is  another  S-100  board  which 
mixes  the  output  of  three  or  more  MicroAngelo  boards  to 
produce  color,  gray  levels,  or  both;  four  colors  can  be 
obtained  with  as  few  as  two  boards. This  scheme  does  re- 
quire more  than  one  MicroAngelo  board,  but  compared 
to  other  graphics  displays  with  512  by  480  resolution,  this 
approach  is  still  cost-effective.  The  board  does  offer  in- 
teresting possibilities:  256  gray  levels,  the  256  possible 
hues  or  colors,  and  the  winking  of  dots  on  an  individual 
dot  basis.  Also,  it  is  possible  to  use  the  winking  effect  to 
alternate  between  two  colors. 

Conclusions 

The  MicroAngelo  video  display  system  provides  quali- 
ty high-resolution  graphics  capabilities  to  S-100  bus  (or 
similar)  microcomputer  systems,  with  an  exceptional 
price-to-performance  ratio. 

On-board  firmware  provides  a  simple  but  powerful  set 
of  commands  that  makes  system  integration  easy. 

Although  the  board  is  designed  to  run  on  the  S-100 
bus,  it  can  be  easily  adapted  to  almost  any  other  bus  or 
input/ouput  port  organization  and  does  not  require  an 
8080  or  Z80  host  computer.  ■ 


202        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  124  on  inquiry  card. 


PMC-80 

Level  II 16K  at  $645 


SOFTWARE  COMPATIBLE 


Reads  all  Level  II  BASIC  tapes 
Reads  all  SYSTEM  tapes 
Full  range  of  peripherals 


The  PMC-80  is  a  "work-alike"  computer 
to  the  popular  TRS-80*  Model  I,  Level  II 
by  Tandy,  Radio  Shack.  The  PMC-80  has 
16K  bytes  of  RAM  and  the  complete 
Level  II  12K  BASIC  ROM  by  Microsoft 
that  makes  it  100%  software  compatible 
with  programs  from  Radio  Shack  and 
from  the  hundreds  of  other  independent 
suppliers.  The  built-in  cassette  player 
reads  standard  Radio  Shack  programs 
for  the  TRS-80.* 

Sold  through  computer  stores. 


Video  output  for  monitor  and  TV 
Optional  FASTLOAD  at  8000  baud 
Optional  Upper/Lower  case 


The  PMC-80  will  operate  with  any  of  the 
many  peripherals  Radio  Shack  and 
other  independent  vendors  have  in- 
vented to  plug  into  the  TRS-80.*  Most 
importantly,  the  Interface  Adapter  per- 
mits Expansion  Interfaces  with  memory 
expansion  to  48K  to  be  added.  An 
Expansion  Interface  will  also  permit  the 
addition  of  Radio  Shack  compatible 
5 '  i "  disks  and  disk  operating  systems, 
RS  232,  printers,  etc. 

"TRS-80  is  a  registered  trademark  of  Tandy,  Radio  Shack. 


Personal  Micro  Computers,  Inc. 


475  Ellis  Street,  Mountain  View,  CA  94043 


(415)  962-0220 


Circle  125  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980        203 


The  Age  of  Affordable  Pers 


■ 

In  1978  Ohio  Scientific  introduced     f, 
a  revolutionary  new  low  cost  com- 
puter —  the  Superboard  II.  This 
computer  provides  all  important 
personal  computer  features  on  a 
single  board  at  a  cost  of  under  $300.  The  Superboard  II  received  rave 
reviews  by  microcomputer  experts  such  as: 

"We  can  heartily  recommend  the  Superboard  II  computer  system  for 
the  beginner  who  wants  to  get  into  microcomputers  with  a  minimum  of 
cost.  Moreover,  this  is  a  'real'  computer  with  full  expandability." 

POPULAR  ELECTRONICS  MARCH,  1979 

"The  Superboard  II  weighs  in  at  $279  and  provides  a  remarkable 
amount  of  computing  for  this  incredible  price'.' 

KILOBAUD  MICROCOMPUTING  FEBRUARY,  1979 

"The  Superboard  II  and  its  fully  dressed  companion  the  Challenger  IP 
series  incorporate  all  the  fundamental  necessities  of  a  personal  com- 
puter at  a  very  attractive  price.  With  the  expansion  capabilities 
provided,  this  series  becomes  a  very  formidable  competitor  in  the  home 
computer  area'.'  INTERFACE  AGE  APRIL,  1979 

"The  graphics  available  permit  some  really  dramatic  effects  and  are 
relatively  simple  to  program . . .  The  fact  that  the  system  can  be  easily 
expanded  to  include  a  floppy  means  that  while  you  are  starting  out  with 
a  low-cost  minimal  system,  you  don't  have  to  throw  it  away  when  you 
are  ready  to  go  on  to  more  complex  computer  functions.  At  $279, 
Superboard  II  is  a  tough  act  to  follow."        RADIO  ELECTRONICS  JUNE,  1979 

"The  Superboard  is  an  excellent  choice  for  the  personal  computer 
enthusiast  on  a  budget"  BYTE  MAY,  1979 


Since  the  introduction  of  Super- 
board  II,  the  cost  of  personal  com- 
puters has  actually  gone  up  with 
new  models  by  major  manufacturers 
ranging  from  $1000  to  well  over 
$4000  due  to  the  general  cost  of 
inflation  and  the  increasing  func- 
tionality included  in  these  com- 
puters. Today  Cleveland  Consumer 
Computers  is  offering  you  the  orig- 
inal Superboard  II  at  its  original 
price  of  just  $279.  In  today's 
economy  this  is  by  far  the  best  buy 


in  personal  computing  ever! 

The  Superboard  II  can  entertain 
your  whole  family  with  spectacular 
video  games  and  cartoons,  made 
possible  by  its  ultra  high  resolution 
graphics  and  super  fast  BASIC.  It 
can  help  you  with  your  personal 
finances  and  budget  planning, 
made  possible  by  its  decimal 
arithmetic  ability  and  cassette  data 
storage  capabilities.  It  can  assist  you 
in  school  or  industry  as  an  ultra 


powerful  scientific  calculator,  made 
possible  by  its  advanced  scientific 
math  functions  and  built-in 
"immediate"  mode  which  allows 
complex  problem  solving  without 
programming!  This  computer  can 
actually  entertain  your  children 
while  it  educates  them  in  topics 
ranging  from  naming  the  Presidents 
of  the  United  States  to  tutoring 
trigonometry  —  all  possible  by  its 
fast  extended  BASIC,  graphics  and 
data  storage  ability. 

The  machine  can  be  economically 
expanded  to  assist  in  your  business, 
remotely  control  your  home,  com- 
municate with  other  computers 
and  perform  many  other  tasks  via 
the  broadest  line  of  expansion 
accessories  in  the  microcomputer 
industry. 

This  machine  is  super  easy  to  use 
because  it  communicates  naturally 
in  BASIC,  an  English-like  program- 
ming language.  So  you  can  easily 
instruct  it  or  program  it  to  do 
whatever  you  want,  but  you  don't 
have  to.  You  don't  because  it  comes 
with  a  complete  software  library  on 
cassette  including  programs  for 
each  application  stated  above.  Ohio 
Scientific  also  offers  you  hundreds 
of  inexpensive  programs  on  ready- 
to-run  cassettes.  Program  it  yourself 
or  just  enjoy  it;  the  choice  is  yours. 

The  Superboard  II  comes  fully 
assembled  and  tested.  It  reguires 
+  5V  at  3  Amps  and  a  video  monitor 
or  TV  with  RF  converter  to  be  up 
and  running.  $279.00 

Standard  Features: 

•  Uses  the  ultra  powerful  6502 
Microprocessor. 

•  8K  Microsoft  BASIC-in-ROM. 
Full  feature  BASIC  runs  faster 
than  currently  available  personal 
computers  and  all  8080  based 
business  computers. 

•  4K  static  RAM  on  board  expand- 
able to  8K. 

•  Full  53-key  keyboard  with 
upper/lower  case  and  user 
programmability. 

•  Kansas  City  standard  audio 
cassette  interface  for  high 
reliability. 

•  Full  machine  code  monitor  and 
I/O  utilities  in  ROM. 


204        BYTE  November  1980 


Circle  126  on  inquiry  card. 


onal  Computing  is  Still  Here, 


Mini-Floppy 
Disk  Drive 


Direct  access  video  display  has  IK 
of  dedicated  memory  (besides  4K 
user  memory),  features  upper 
case,  lower  case,  graphics  and 
gaming  characters  for  an  effective 
screen  resolution  of  up  to  256  x 
256  points.  Normal  TV's  with 
overscan  display  about  24  rows  of 
24  characters  without  overscan  up 
to  30  x  30  characters. 

Optional  Extras: 

•  Available  610  expander  board 
features  up  to  24K  static  RAM 
(additional),  dual  mini-floppy 
interface,  and  an  OSI  48  line 
expansion  interface. 

•  Assembler/Editor  and  Extended 
Machine  Code  monitor  available. 

•  630  I/O  Expander. 

RGB  color  and  NTSC  composite 
color  outputs  with  up  to  16  colors, 
Dual  8-axis  joystick  interface,  AC 
remote  control  interface  which 
mates  with  AC-12P,  home  security 
interface  which  mates  with  the 
AC-17P,  16-line  parallel  I/O  inter- 
face, 16-pin  I/O  bus  interface 
which  allows  the  connection  of 
parallel  I/O  lines  or  high  speed 
analog  I/O  module,  or  a  PROM 
blaster  or  solderless  interface  pro- 
totyping board,  programmable 
sound  generator  and  program 
selectable  modem  and  high  speed 
printer  ports,  and  more. 


Freight  Policies  All  orders  of  $100  or  more 
are  shipped  freight  prepaid.  Orders  of  less 
than  $100  please  add  $4.00  to  cover  shipping 
costs.  Ohio  Residents  add  5.5%  Sales  Tax. 

Guaranteed  Shipment  Cleveland 
Consumer  Computers  &  Components 
guarantees  shipment  of  computer  systems 
within  48  hours  upon  receipt  of  your  order. 
Our  failure  to  ship  within  48  hours  entitles 
you  to  $35  of  software,  FREE. 


VISA 


Hours: 

Call  Monday  thru  Friday 
8:00AMto5:00PME.D.T. 


Software: 


CS-600 


Ohio  Scientific  and  independent  suppliers 
offer  hundreds  of  programs  for  the 
Superboard  II,  in  cassette  and  mini-floppy 
form.  Here  is  a  sampling  of  popular  Ohio 
Scientific  programs  for  the  Superboard  II. 


EDUCATIONAL  PROGRAMS 

BASIC  Tutor  Series 

Clock  Tutor 

Continents  Quiz 

Definite  Integral 

French  Drill  &  Tutor 

German  Tutor  &  Drill 

Hangman  (8K) 

Log  Tutors  1-3 

Math  Blitz 

Math  Intro 

Mathink 

Matrix  Tutors  1-3 

Metric  Tutor  &  Quiz 

Spanish  Drill  &  Tutor 

Spelling  Quiz 

Trig  Tutor  (8K)  I  &  II 

BUSINESS  PROGRAMS 

Address  Book 

Advertisement  Demo 

Inventory  Demo 

Mailing  List  (8K) 

Straight  &  Constant  Depreciation 

Time  Calculator 

PERSONAL  PROGRAMS 

Biorhythm 

Calorie  Counter 

Checking  Account 

Loan  Finance 

Personal  Calendar 

Savings  Account 

GAME  PROGRAMS 

Baseball  I 

Black  lack 

Civil  War 

Destroyer 

High  Noon 

Hockey 

Lander 

New  York  Taxi 

Poker 

Racer 

Space  War 

Star  Trek 

Star  Wars 

Tic-Tac-Toe 

Tiger  Tank 


SBII&C1P 

SCE-336 

SCE-353 

SCE-332 

SCE-326 

SCE-339 

SCE-342 

SCE-324 

SCE-344 

SCE-329 

SCE-319 

SCE-337 

SCE-345 

SCE-335 

SCE-3S2 

SCE-333 

SCE-318 

SCB-S23 
SCB-520 
SCB-518 
SCB-524 
SCB-500 
SCB-525 

SCP-716 
SCP-708 
SCP-719 
SCP-717 
SCP-718 
SCP-720 

SCG-975 
SCG-955 
SCG-977 
SCG-951 
SCG-960 
SCG-979 
SCG-925 
SCG-956 
SCG-962 
SCG-949 
SCG-942 
SCG-946 
SCG-926 
SCG-945 
SCG-950 


610  Board 


Price 
$35.00 
6.50 
6.S0 
6.50 
6.50 
6.50 
9.00 
6.50 
6.50 
6.50 
9.00 
6.50 
6.50 
6.50 
6.50 
6.50 

9.00 
6.50 
6.50 
6.50 
9.00 
9.00 

9.00 
6.50 
9.00 
6.50 
6.50 
9.00 

6.50 
6.50 
6.50 
6.50 
6.50 
6.50 
6.50 
6.50 
6.50 
6.50 
6.50 
6.50 
6.50 
6.50 
14.00 


Hardware: 

Superboard  II 

as  specified  in  the  advertisement. 

$279 

610  Board 

For  use  with  Superboard  II  and 
Challenger  1 P,  8K  static  RAM  ex- 
pandable to  24K  or  32K  system  total. 
Accepts  up  to  two  mini-floppy  disk 

drives.  Requires  +5V@  4.5  amps. 

298 

Mini-Floppy  Disk  Drive 

Includes  Ohio  Scientif ic's  PICO 

DOS  software  and  connector  cable. 

Compatible  with  610  expander 

board.  Requires  +  12V@  1 .5  amps 

and  +5V@  0.7  amps. 

299 

630  Board 

As  specified  in  the  advertisement. 

229 

AC-3P 

12"  combination  black  and  white 

TV/video  monitor. 

159 

4KP 

4K  RAM  chip  set. 

79 

PS-005 

5V  4.5  amp  power  supply  for 

Superboard  II. 

35 

PS-003 

Mini-floppy  power  supply. 

29 

C1P  Sams 

ClP/Superboard  II  Manual. 

8 

OS-65D 

V3.2  Disk  Operating  System  with 
9-digit  extended  BASIC,  random 

access  and  sequential  files. 

49 

CS-600 

Metal  case  for  Superboard  II,  610 
and  630  board  and  two  power 

supplies. 

49 

CS-610 

Metal  case  for  single  floppy  disk 

drive  and  power  supply. 

49 

AC-12P 

Wireless  AC  remote  control  system. 
Includes  control  console,  two  lamp 
modules  and  two  appliance 

modules  for  use  with  630  board. 

175 

AC-17P 

Home  security  system.  Includes 
console,  fire  detector,  window 
protection  devices  and  door  unit  for 

use  with  630  board. 

249 

C4P  Sams 

C4P  Manual. 

16 

C3  Sams    Challenger  III  Manual. 


40 


To  Order: 

Or  to  get  our  free  catalog  CALL  1-800-321-5805  TOLL  FREE. 

Charge  your  order  to  your  VISA  or  MASTER  CHARGE  ACCOUNT 
Ohio  Residents  Call:  (216)  464-8047.  Or  write,  including  your  check 
or  money  order,  to  the  address  listed  below. 

I  CLEVELAND  CONSUMER 
COMPUTERS  &  COMPONENTS 


'     '    '   WB1M  ^B. 


s5*J£9*J59»  —  . 


P.O.  Box  46627 
Cleveland.  Ohio  44146 


CLEVELAND  CONSUMER 
COMPUTERS  S  COMPONENTS 


P.O.  Box  46627 
Cleveland,  Ohio  44146 


Order  Form 

□  Superboard  II  $279.  □  630  Board  $229. 

□  610  Board  $298.  □  AC-3P  12"  B-W  Monitor  $159 

□  Mini-Floppy  Disk  Drive  $299.      DC1P  Sams  Manual  $8. 
(Attach  separate  sheet  for  other  items.) 

NAME: 

ADDRESS: 

CITY: 


_STATE: 


.ZIP: 


|   Payment  by:  VISA:  _  MASTER  CHARGE 

I   Credit  Card  Account  f 

I   Expires : Interbank  |  (Master  Charge) 

I  TOTALCHARGEDORENCLOSED:$_ 
I 


MONEY  ORDER: 


_(OhioResidentsadd5.5%  Sales  Tax) 


All  orders  shipped  insured  UPS  unless  otherwise  requested.  FOB  Cleveland,  Ohi< 


Circle  126  on  Inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


205 


Getting  to  Know  Your  Monitor 


Ron  Dalpiaz 

308  High  St  Box  573 

Tuscarawas  OH  44682 


There  are  few  more  satisfying  pur- 
suits than  constructing,  operating, 
and  maintaining  a  personal  computer 
system.  The  brave  souls  who  develop 
their  systems  from  discrete  kits, 
preferring  to  assemble  the  "ideal" 
combination  of  peripherals,  can  feel 
justifiably  proud  of  their  accom- 
plishments. 

Inevitably,  system  failures  will  oc- 
cur and  can  usually  be  remedied  by 
personal  knowledge  and  help  from 
numerous  books  and  articles  on 
computer-circuit  theory.  But  one  fre- 
quently neglected  area  is  the  opera- 
tional theory  of  the  most  used 
human-to-computer  interface:  the 
monochrome  video  monitor. 

The  video  monitor  is  a  basic  part  of 
most  personal  computer  systems.  The 
theory  described  here  applies  to  con- 
verted television  receivers  and  profes- 
sional monitors.  The  two  differ  most- 
ly in  the  video  amplifier's  frequency 
response  and  the  cathode-ray-tube 
phosphor  color:  a  professional 
monitor  has  a  greater  frequency 
response  and  a  green  phosphor. 
Additionally,  the  professional 
monitor  has  no  tuner,  intermediate 
frequency  amplifier,  video  detector, 
sound  or  AGC  (automatic  gain  con- 
trol) sections,  which  are  necessary  in 
the  broadcast  receiver.  The  latter 
must  have  these  sections  rendered 
inoperable  or  selectively  switched  out 
when  used  as  a  monitor.  Our  discus- 
sion will  assume  a  professional 
monitor  with  direct  video  entry. 

The  Picture  Tube 

The  fundamental  part  of  the  video 
monitor  is  the  CRT  (cathode-ray 
tube).  Various  circuits  are  used  to 
deflect  and  modulate  the  beam. 

Figure  1  shows  the  elements  found 
in  the  modern  picture-tube  electron- 
gun  assembly.  6.3  V  applied  to  the 
heater  causes  electrons  to  be  emitted 
or  "boiled  off"  from  the  cathode  sur- 
face. The  electrons  are  pulled  toward 
the  phosphorus  screen  by  the  high 
positive  potential  existing  at  the  ac- 
celerating anode  surrounding  the  bell 
of     the     picture     tube.     Typically, 


CONTROL 
GRID 


-l 


11 


> 


!    I 


-FOCUSING 
ANODE 


I      I 


-F 


CATHODE 


-ACCELERATING 
ANODES 


Figure  1:  Internal  structure  of  a  cathode-ray  tube.  The  electron  beam  is  emitted  by  the 
cathode  when  it  is  heated.  Electrons  are  attracted  to  the  screen  by  a  high  voltage  (12  kV 
to  20  kV)  on  the  second  anode. 


LZ^ 


> 


CROSSOVER 


o 


f 


CONTROL    GRID 


Figure  2:  The  crossover  effect.  Two  accelerating  anodes,  in  conjunction  with  the  focus- 
ing anode,  are  used  to  give  a  sharp  beam  and  a  well-defined  screen  image.  Without  the 
focusing  arrangement,  the  electron  beam  diverges  and  splatters. 


CONTROL   GRID-i 


CATHODE 


1 


FOCUS  ANODE 


1 


SECOND   ANODE 


RT 


D 


^~--J^' 


\V-7FT 


-——^-^^T-  J  SCREEN 


4^ 


ilSi 


f 

B- 


BRIGHTNESS 


ii    FOCUS 
_wv 


B  + 


Figure  3:  Focusing  the  beam.  By  applying  the  proper  potentials  to  the  anodes  and  con- 
trol grids,  the  electron  beam  can  be  "squeezed"  to  a  pinpoint,  for  displaying  the  image 
on  the  screen. 


206        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


What  do  you  need? 

Program  listings  .  .  .  inventory  listings  .  .  . 
custom  logos  and  letters  .  .  .  mailing  labels  in  a 
multitude  of  sizes  .  .  .  custom  forms  and  the  data 
to  complete  them  .  .  .  curve  plotting  or  bar 
graphs  . .  .  digitized  images  from  video  or  bit 
pads  .  .  .  multi-part  forms  .  .  .  preprinted  forms 
.  .  .  tickets  .  .  .  and  the  list  goes  on  .  .  . 


How  do  we  do  it? 

High  speed  bi-directional  full  logic  printing;  two 
standard  character  sets,  upper/lower  case 
with  descenders;  high  speed  font  at  165  cps; 
letter  quality  font  at  90  cps;  expanded 
characters,  solid  underlining;  programmable 
character  sets;  complete  dot  control  graphics; 
adjustable  tractor  feed  3"-16";  user  adjustable 
platen;  programmable  tabs,  forms  length  and 
line  spacing;  out  of  paper  signal;  self-test; 
interface  options  —  RS-232C,  Centronics 
parallel,  Apple,  S-100;  and  the  list  goes  on  .  .  . 

The  Malibu  Model  165 

Find  out  if  it's  the  easy  solution  to  your  hard  copy  needs  —  contact 
your  local  computer  dealer  or  you  can  write  or  call  us  today  for 
complete  specifications  and  print  samples  —  you  won't  be  disappointed. 

Versatility,  Quality  and  Reliability:  We  build  it  in. 


malibu 

Electronics  Corporation 


Dealers  and  OEM'S,  call  us  about  our  new  purchase  programs 
with  prices,  terms  and  delivery  to  meet  your  needs  too. 


2301  Townsgate  Road,  Westlake  Village,  CA  91361  (805)  496-1990 

a  subsidiary  of  "-^-tfiw^lh  li  Convocation 


Circle  127  on  Inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980         207 


voltages  of  12  kV  to  20  kV  are  fed  to 
this  anode  from  the  monitor's  high- 
voltage  section. 

The  emitted  electrons  pass  through 
various  control  grids  and  arrive  at  the 
screen  in  the  form  of  a  luminescent 
dot.  The  brilliance  of  the  dot  is  con- 
trolled by  adjusting  the  potential  at 
the  control  grid.  A  voltage  more 
negative  than  the  cathode  surface 
decreases  the  beam  brilliance,  while  a 
more  positive  voltage  increases  the 
beam  brilliance.  Varying  the  control- 
grid  voltage  modulates  the  beam  and 
produces  the  shades  of  black  and 
white  that  form  the  picture  elements 
on  the  monitor  screen. 

The  two  accelerating  anodes,  in 
conjunction  with  the  focusing  anode, 
are  used  to  give  a  sharp,  well-defined 
screen  image.  Without  these  anodes, 
the  electron  beam,  after  passing 
through  the  control  grid,  would  en- 
counter crossover  and  become  broad 
and  splattered,  as  shown  in  figure  2. 

By  applying  the  proper  potentials 
to  the  accelerating  anodes  and  the 
focus  anode,  the  beam  is  squeezed 
and  formed  into  a  well-defined  pin- 
point suitable  for  displaying  the  im- 
ages  on   the   screen.   This   result   is 


shown  in  figure  3. 

Deflection  Circuits  and 
Rastering 

The  processes  described  so  far 
would  result  in  a  black  screen  with  a 
single  bright  dot  in  the  center  of  the 
picture  tube.  The  first  step  in  obtain- 
ing a  display  on  the  screen  is  to  pull 
the  electron  beam  from  side  to  side; 
this  illuminates  a  line  on  the  screen. 
The  beam  can  be  moved  from  top  to 
bottom,  in  order  to  illuminate  a 
whole  screen  of  lines.  If  this  is  done 
rapidly  enough,  this  will  produce  il- 
lumination over  the  entire  area  of  the 
picture  tube.  This  process  is  called 
rastering,  and  the  dimly  illuminated 
screen  with  no  data  information  pre- 
sent is  called  the  raster. 

The  deflection  yoke  consists  of 
electromagnetic  coils  arranged  in  a 
vertical  and  horizontal  configuration 
and  is  fitted  around  the  picture  tube 
neck;  it  is  the  primary  device  used  for 
deflecting  the  electron  beam.  To 
move  the  beam  from  the  top  to  the 
bottom  of  the  screen  (vertically),  a 
rapidly  rising  (and  more  rapidly  fall- 
ing) sawtooth-current  waveform  is 
passed  through  the  vertical  windings 


FINDING  SOLUTIONS 

AND  BEING  COMPETITIVE 

IS  OUR  BUSINESS. 

Having  problems  and  looking  for  a 

computer  to  help  solve  them? 

Are  you  finding  computer  dealers 

come  in  one  of  two  ways?  Either 

Full  system  support  with  Full  price 

or  Take  it  or  Leave  it  with  Low 

price.  At  Omega  we  don't  believe 

that  you  should  have  to  make  a 

choice.  Yes,  we're  in  business  to  sell 

products  but  also,  to  solve  your 

problems.  Our  prices  will  be  the 

lowest  possible.  Our  support  and 

product  quality  will  be  second  to  none.  Check  out  our  Mail  Order  prices  in  this 

ad  (our  retail  prices  will  be  higher).  See  if  you  don't  agree  with  our  first  claim. 

For  our  second  claim,  call  us  with  your  data  processing  needs  and  problems. 

Better  yet,  come  in  and  see  us.  Finding  solutions  and  being  competitive  is  our 

business.  We  never  forget  either  of  them. 


tcippkz  computer 

Authorized  Dealer 


APPLE  II  "PLUS"  16K         S   929.95 
48  K  1079.95 

Apple  II  Accessories: 

Disk  II  with  Contorller  $485.00 

Disk  II  2nd  drive    435.00 

Graphics  Tablet   665.00 

Language  System  with  PASCAL   395.00 

Silentype  Printer  w/lnt    489.00 

Integer  Firmware  Card   152.00 

Z-80  Softcard    259.00 

Videx  Videoterm  80  col  Card    279.00 

Sanyo  12"  Green  Monitor    179.00 


Calculators:  ($2.00  shipping  charge) 
Hewlet  Packard 

HP-85 CALL 

HP-67   $299.00 

HP-34C     127.00 

Texas  Instruments 

TI-58C     109.00 

Cannon 

P10-D    80.00 

Sharp 

6200    98.00 

5100    89.00 


HP-41C     $269.00 

HP-97    589.00 

HP-38C     127.00 

TI-59 209.00 

P7-D    80.00 

5813    35.00 

5102    80.00 


Mail  Order  Terms  of  Sale:  Price  based  on  prepaid  orders.  Visa  or  Master  Charge  orders  may  have  service  charge  added 
to  purchase  price.  No  COD's.  Allow  14  working  days  tor  personal  and  company  checks  to  clear  All  orders  (unless 
specified  in  ad)  within  Continental  U.  S.  shipped  U.P.S.  no  charge.  APO  or  out  of  Continental  U.  S.  write  or  call  for 
snipping  charges.  All  prices  subject  to  change  and  all  offers  subject  to  withdrawl  without  notice.  CA  residents  add  6% 

OMEGA  IfflBRO  COMPUTERS 


The  Problem  Solving  Company 


3447  Torrance  Boulevard  •  Torrance,  California  90503  •  (213)  370-9456 


of  the  yoke.  Figure  4  shows  a 
sawtooth  waveform  produced  by  a 
typical  vertical  circuit  and  the  resul- 
tant vertical  sweep  of  the  beam. 

As  the  current  rises  (Time  A),  the 
buildup  of  magnetic  flux  causes  the 
beam  to  be  swept  from  the  top  to  the 
bottom  of  the  screen.  When  the 
sawtooth  reaches  maximum  value,  it 
rapidly  falls  to  0  (Time  B),  causing 
the  beam  to  be  retraced  from  the  bot- 
tom back  to  the  top  of  the  screen, 
where  the  process  begins  again.  Dur- 
ing the  beam  sweep  from  top  to  bot- 
tom, the  trace  is  visible,  but  during 
the  retrace  the  beam  is  cut  off  by  the 
retrace  blanking  circuitry  to  avoid 
undesirable  retrace  lines  from  show- 
ing. Vertical  sweep  of  the  beam  nor- 
mally occurs  60  times  per  second. 

The  sawtooth  wave  is  produced  in 
an  oscillator  and  amplifier  section  of 
the  television  monitor  and  is  fed  to 
the  vertical  windings  of  the  deflection 
yoke  60  times  per  second.  Vertical 
beam  deflection,  if  used  alone,  would 
result  in  a  bright  vertical  line  in  the 
center  of  the  darkened  screen.  To 
complete  the  rastering  process,  the 
beam  must  also  be  deflected  from  left 
to  right,  and  this  is  accomplished  by 
the  horizontal  circuitry. 

The  horizontal  windings  in  the 
deflection  yoke  are  also  fed  with  a 
sawtooth  current  originating  in  the 
horizontal  oscillator  and  output  cir- 
cuitry. The  frequency  of  this 
sawtooth  is  15,750  Hz.  The  rising 
sawtooth  current  is  passed  through 
the  horizontal  windings  in  the  yoke, 
causing  the  beam  to  be  deflected  from 
the  left  to  the  right  side  of  the  picture. 
The  beam  is  then  cut  off  by  the 
horizontal  blanking  circuitry,  and  the 
rapidly  falling  sawtooth  current 
sweeps  the  beam  back  to  the  left  side 
of  the  screen  to  repeat  the  process. 
Figure  5  illustrates  a  typical  horizon- 
tal oscillator  and  deflection  circuit 
and  the  resultant  screen  trace. 

The  horizontal  sawtooth  voltage  is 
produced  by  the  horizontal  oscillator 
and  output  section.  The  sawtooth  is 
coupled  into  a  horizontal  output 
transformer  before  being  fed  to  the 
deflection  yoke  windings.  The  main 
purpose  of  this  transformer  is  to  pro- 
duce the  high  voltage  necessary  for 
the  accelerating  anode  at  the  picture 
tube.  The  rapidly  falling  sawtooth 
voltage  present  during  beam  retrace  is 
fed  to  the  horizontal  output 
transformer  which  steps  it  up  to  a 
Text  continued  on  page  212 


208        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  128  on  inquiry  card. 


Now  NRI  takes  you  inside  tke 

world's  most  popular  microcomputer 

to  train  you  at  home  as  the 

new  breed  of  computer  specialist! 


NRI  teams  up  with  Radio  Shack 
to  teach  you  how  to  use, 
program  and  service 
microcomputers . . .  make  you 
the  complete  technician. 
It's  no  longer  enough  to  be  just  a 
programmer  or  a  technician.  With  micro- 
computers moving  into  the  fabric  of  our 
lives  (over200,000  of  the  TRS-80™  alone 
have  been  sold),  interdisciplinary  skills 
are  demanded.  And  NRI  can  prepare 
you  with  the  first  course  of  its  kind, 
covering  the  complete  world  of  the 
microcomputer. 

Learn  At  Home 
in  Your  Spare  Time 

With  NRI  training,  the  program- 
mer gains  practical  knowledge  of  hard- 
ware, enabling  him  to  design  simpler,  more 
effective  programs.  And,  with  advanced 
programming  skills,  the  technician  can 
test  and  debug  systems  quickly  and  easily 


Training  includes  TRS-80  computer,  transistorized 
volt-ohm  meter,  digital  frequency  counter, 
and  the  MU  Discovery  Lab  with  hundreds  of  tests 
and  experiments. 

(TRS-80  is  a  trademark  of  the  Radio  Shack  division  of  Tandy  Corp.) 


Only  NRI  gives  you  both  kinds  of 
training  with  the  convenience  of  home 
study.  No  classroom  pressures,  no  night 
school,  no  gasoline  wasted.  You  learn  at 
your  convenience,  at  your  own  pace.  Yet 
you're  always  backed  by  the  NRI  staff  and 
your  instructor,  answering  questions,  giving 
you  guidance,  and  helping  you  over  the 
tough  spots. 

Explore  the  TRS-80 
Inside  and  Out 

NRI  training  is  hands-on  training, 
with  practical  experiments  and  demon- 
strations as  the  very  foundation  of  your 
knowledge.  You  don't  just  program  your 
computer,  you  introduce  and  correct  faults 
. .  .watch  how  circuits  interact. . . interface 
with  other  systems. . .  gain  a  real  insight 
into  its  nature. 

You  also  build  test  instruments  and 
the  NRI  Discovery  Lab,  performing  over  60 
separate  experiments  in  the  process.  You 
learn  how  your  trouble-shooting  tools  work, 
and  gain  greater  understanding  of  the  in- 
formation they  give  you.  Both  micro- 


computer and  equipment  come  as  part 
of  your  training  for  you  to  use  and  keep. 

Send  for  Free  Catalog. . . 
No  Salesman  Will  Call 

Get  all  the  details  on  this  exciting 
course  in  NRI's  free,  100-page  catalog.  It 
shows  all  equipment,  lesson  outlines,  and 
facts  on  other  electronics  courses  such  as 
Complete  Communications  with  CB,  TV  and 
Audio,  Digital  Electronics,  and  more.  Send 
today,  no  salesman  will  ever  bother  you. 
Keep  up  with  the  latest  technology  as  you 
learn  on  the  world's  most  popular  computer. 
If  card  has  been  used,  write  to: 

NRI  Schools 

McGraw-Hill  Continuing 
■ri  fji  Jj|      Education  Center 
&5VZ  3939  Wisconsin  Avenue 
I  ■  II  I  Washington,  DC.  20016. 


Circle  131  on  inquiry  card. 

Buy  an  Atari  800  16K  for 


$747 


and  your  savings  hove  just  begun: 

odd'M6KRom      S1 39.95     Joysticks  S14.95 

odd  I    SKRom         $84.95      Star  Raiders  U9.95 

410  Program  Rec.  159.95     29.95  Rom  Pocks    $19.95 


COMPUTERS 


USSL, 

Horizon  II  32K  DD* 
Horizon  II  32K  Quod* 
Industrial  Micro  5000  D.D. 
Altos  ACS-8000-5 
Zenith  (Heoth)  Z-89,  48K 
Dynabyte  DD  8/1  48K 
Tl  99/4  w/Monitor 


mg 


$2399 
$2799 
$2499 
$4995 
$2299 
$2345 
$899 


4J;l,'hH;HI 

^^ss^ 

«—  M           mmm 

Okidota  Microline  80 

$546 

Comprint  GP  (Apple,  TRS-80) 

$495 

Paper  Tiger  w/graphics 

$879 

MPI  66T 

$624 

Centronics  737 

$829 

Diablo  630 

$2349 

NEC  5510 

$2589 

TERMINALS 


P.E.  Bantam  (w/non-glore) 

$689 

Soroc  IQ  1 20  (Pre-tested) 

$749 

Televideo  91 2C 

$749 

Televideo  920C 

$799 

Hazelrine  1500 

$899 

Visual  Tech  200 

$945 

■  HOW  TO  ORDER  1 

Moil-Order  Only 

2%  cosh  discount  incl.  Prices  subject  to  change.  Product 
subject  to  availability.  Az.  residents  add  5%.  F.O.D. 
Scottsdale.  Factory  Warranties  included. 
*Our  Horizons  ore  better  thon  their  Horizons,  coll  us, 
we'll  tell  you  why. 

Scottsdale 
Systems 

6730  E.  McDowell  Rood  #1 03    ,  ^_  , 
t  Scottsdale,  Az.  85257 

™        Open  6  to  6  PM  ■  M-Sat. 

(602)941-5856 


OQ-1 


INPUT  PULSE   FROM 
HORIZONTAL  OUTPUT 


HORIZONTAL 

OUTPUT 

TRANSFORMER 


15KV-17KV  TO 
2ND  ANODE 


I— v.  BOOST   B+  TO 
"— •*  FOCUS  ANODE 


Figure  6:  Typical  high-voltage  circuit.  High-frequency  AC  from  the  horizontal- 
deflection  circuitry  is  also  used  to  produce  the  high  voltage  supplied  to  the  focusing  and 
second  anodes.  After  passing  through  a  step-up  transformer,  the  AC  is  rectified  and 
filtered  for  use  in  various  other  circuits. 


HORIZONTAL 

SYNC 

PULSES 


w- 


VERTICAL    SYNC    PULSES 
CONTAINED   WITHIN 
INFORMATION    BURST 


INFORMATION 


WHITE    LEVEL 


Figure  7:  Composite  video  signal.  The  signal  sent  to  most  video  displays  contains  large 
pulses  used  to  keep  the  horizontal  oscillator  in  time  with  the  picture  information.  The 
picture  information  is  essentially  an  on/off  control  of  the  electron  beam.  In  most  video 
monitors,  a  low  pulse  turns  the  beam  on,  illuminating  a  dot  on  the  screen;  an  in- 
termediate voltage  turns  the  beam  off. 


Text  continued  from  page  208: 
very  high  potential.  This  pulsating 
high  voltage  is  then  rectified,  filtered, 
and  applied  to  the  picture  tube  anode. 
Various  taps  on  the  transformer  give 
alternate  circuit  voltages,  including 
the  focus  voltage.  Figure  6  illustrates 
a  typical  high-voltage  circuit. 

The  production  of  high  voltage  to 
accelerate  the  electron  beam  com- 
bined with  the  horizontal  and  vertical 
deflection  of  the  beam  all  work 
together  to  produce  a  dimly  il- 
luminated raster  on  the  screen. 

Interlaced  Scanning 

A  careful  study  of  the  raster  reveals 
the  precision  with  which  it  is  pro- 
duced. The  raster  is  usually  com- 
posed of  525  finely  spaced  parallel 
horizontal  lines,  approximately  480 
of  which  are  visible  within  the  view- 
ing area  of  the  picture  tube.  The 
number  of  lines  and  the  scanning 
method  used  depend  on  the  particular 
video  interface  used,  and  I  will 
assume  a  high-quality  monitor  used 
with  a  video  system  outputting  sixty- 
four  or  more  characters  per  line. 


The  vertical  oscillator  and  output 
section  utilize  an  interlaced  scanning 
method  which  traces  262.5  lines 
across  the  screen  in  1/60  second,  then 
returns  to  trace  a  second  set  of  262.5 
lines  between  the  previous  lines.  Each 
set  of  lines  is  called  a  field,  and  the 
two  fields  combined  produce  one 
complete  data  picture  or  frame. 
When  the  electron  beam  is  modulated 
to  produce  a  picture,  one  frame  oc- 
curs once  each  1/30  second,  and 
thirty  complete  pictures  occurring 
each  second  are  sufficient  to  give  the 
illusion  of  a  continuous  display.  Ex- 
ceptions to  this  process  are  video- 
interface  techniques  which  do  not  in- 
terlace their  fields  but  which  trace  a 
complete  picture  in  one  field.  The 
60  Hz  scan  rate  can  also  vary. 

The  Composite  Video  Signal 

In  order  to  synchronize  the 
monitor's  vertical  and  horizontal 
oscillators  with  the  video-interface 
output,  a  composite  video  signal  or 
separate  video  and  synchronization 
signals  are  coupled  to  their  respective 
stages.    The    purpose    of    the    syn- 


212       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Suddenly,  RCA  makes  talking  to 
your  computer  a  lot  cheaper. 

New  interactive  data  terminal 
with  color  graphics-only  $369. 


PPSfwSfl*- 


o 


!  && 


RCA's  new  VP-3301  is  a  professional  quality, 
ASCII  encoded,  interactive  data  terminal,  suitable  for  a 
wide  variety  of  industrial,  educational,  business  and 
individual  applications  requiring  interactive  communi- 
cation between  computer  and  user.  Connects  directly 
to  your  computer  or  to  a  standard  modem  for  over  the 
phone  access  to  time  sharing  networks  and  data 
bases.  And  it's  compatible  with  networks  such  as  those 
provided  by  CompuServe  Information  Services  and 
Source  Telecomputing  Corp.  Microprocessor  intelli- 
gence and  LSI  video  control  integrated  circuits  bring 
performance,  features  and  flexibility  at  a  low  price. 
Operates  from  5  volt  power  supply  (included). 

Unique  color  locking  circuitry  creates  sharp,  jitter 
free,  true  color  graphics  and  rainbow  free  characters. 

You  can  display  the  entire  field  of  characters  in 
any  of  8  colors  against  any  of  8  background  colors 
(8  gray  scales  with  monochrome  monitors).  Or  to  add 
special  emphasis,  you  can  display  individual  letters, 
words  or  lines  in  different  colors  or  in  reverse  video. 

The  VP-3301  offers  you  a  choice  of  two  software- 
selectable  display  formats:  Either  40  characters  by 
24  lines.  Or  20  characters  by  12  lines. 

The  terminal's  resident  character  set  consists  of 
52  upper  and  lower  case  alphabetics,  10  numerals,  32 
punctuation /math  symbols  and  31  control  characters. 


You  can  also  define  a  total  of  125  of  your  own 
characters.  Including:  Greek  letters  and  other  foreign 
alphabets,  graphic  symbols,  large  graphics  building 
blocks,  playing  card  suits,  unique  character  fonts  and 
"little  green  men." 

The  keyboard  section  features  flexible-membrane 
key  switches  with  contact  life  rated  at  greater  than  five 
million  operations.  A  finger  positioning  overlay  and 
positive  keypress  action  give  good  operator  "feel". 

An  on-board  sound  generator  and  speaker  pro- 
vides aural  feedback  for  key  presses  and  may  also  be 
activated  with  escape  sequences  to  provide  an 
audio  output. 

The  sealed  keyboard  surface  is  spill  proof  and 
dust  proof.  This,  combined  with  high  noise  immunity 
CMOS  circuitry,  makes  the  VP-3301  ideal  for  hostile 
environments. 

Output  is  industry  standard  asynchronous  RS232C 
or  20  mA  current  loop  with  6  switch-selectable  baud 
rates  and  8  selectable  data  formats. 

You  can  connect  the  terminal  directly  to  a  525  line 
color  or  monochrome  monitor.  Or  to  a  standard  TV  set 
using  your  RF  modulator. 

For  more  information,  contact  RCA  Microcomputer 
Marketing,  New  Holland  Avenue,  Lancaster,  PA 

Or  call  our  toll-free  number:  800-233-0094. 


♦Suggested  user  price. 


RCA 


Circle  132  on  Inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980        213 


Circle  133  on  inquiry  card. 


BKG 10. 


The  improved  version  ot  bKG  9.8, 
the  backgammon  playing  program 
that  defeated  the  world 
backgammon  champion  by  a  score 
of  7-1  at  Monte  Carlo  in  July,  1979. 

BKG  10,  developed  utilizing  the 
expertise  of  Paul  Magriel,  former 
world  backgammon  champion 
and  author  of  Backgammon,  has 
emerged  as  one  of  the  best 
pieces  of  artificial  intelligence 
software  available  on 
microcomputer. 


BKG  10.  features: 

•  Version  I  utilizes  direct  cursor  control  for 
professional  display  of  board,  disc,  cube,  etc. 

•  Version  II  adds  printer/disc  IO  of  game  in 
progress,  enables  board  set-up  at  non- 
standard points  and  simulation  capabilities. 

•  BKG  10.  incorporates  advanced  SNAC  func- 
tions (Smooth  &  Nonlinear  Application 
Coefficients)  as  described  in  (Scientific 
American,  June,  1980). 

•  Plays  by  ABPA  Tournament  Rules,  including: 
doubling,  match  play  and  optionally  the 
Crawford  Rule.  BKG  10.  VI  will  play  either 
side.  VII  enables  machine  —  machine  play  for 
simulation  applications. 

•  BKG  10.  responds  quickly,  making  most  moves 
in  under  15  seconds  (2  MHz),  or  7  seconds 
(4MHz). 

•  BKG  10.  was  written  entirely  in  Z-80  Assem- 
bler. 

BKGIO.    has    the  additional   capability  of 

suggesting  moves  and  doubling  decisions. 

•  SYSTEM  REQUIREMENTS  • 

system. 


rocessor.  32K  TPA,  CP/M  C 
addressable  video  termini 


compatible  operate 
&  8"  floppy  drive.  \i 


BKG  10.  $79  °°  $129^ 

single  /,cerae  fee  PRICE  INCIUOES: 

Two  non-copiable  diskettes 

and  a  complete  30  page  monual. 

Software  Update  subscription  available 

INTELLIGENCE  SYSTEMS  LTD  ,  I  24  S  DELAWARE  STREET 

INDIANAPOLIS,  IN.  46204  (31/)  63 1  -55  \  4 

For  Mastercard,  VISA,  or  C.O.D.  orders  only 

Call  Now:   800-824-7888  m 


Alaska/Hawaii  800-824-7919 
Ask  for  Operator  1 05 


BKG  10. 


BLACK 
LEVEL 


WHITE 
LEVEL * 


n_ 


(a) 


(b) 


Figure  8:  Sample  video  display  and  corresponding  composite  video  signal.  The  low  por- 
tion of  the  composite  signal  (b)  turns  on  the  electron  beam  to  illuminate  the  screen  (a). 
When  the  intermediate  voltage  of  the  black  portion  is  encountered,  the  beam  is  turned 
off.  As  the  composite  signal  returns  to  the  low  white  level,  the  screen  is  illuminated 
again. 


1ST  VIDEO 

2ND  VIDEO 

COMPOSITE 

AMPLIFIER 

1 

AMPLIFIER 

DEFLECTION 
COILS 

n  x 

VIDEO  INPUT 
| — ^, 

1 < 

J 

1  PICTURE 

P 

i 

1  TUBE 

1 

1 

1 — 
| 

VERTICAL 
SWEEP 

— 1 

l__ 

r- 

rn 

<J 

SYNC 
SEPARATOR 

DEFLECTION 
CIRCUITS 

.      Ji 

1 

1 

i 

_i 

1 
1 

HORIZONTAL 

i 

HIGH 

SWEEP 

VOLTAGE 

Figure  9:  Block  diagram  of  the  signal  path  in  a  typical  monitor.  The  solid  lines  represent 
actual  video  information,  while  the  dashed  lines  indicate  the  path  of  synchronization 
signals. 


chronization  signals  is  to  time  the  ver- 
tical and  horizontal  oscillator  stages 
to  the  video  information  fed  to  the 
picture  tube.  Figure  7  is  a  sketch  of 
the  most  widely  implemented  com- 
posite video  signal. 

This  signal  contains  both  the 
horizontal  and  vertical  synchroniza- 
tion pulses  (called  sync  pulses)  and  is 
applied  to  the  sync  separator  where 
the  horizontal  and  vertical  pulses  are 
separated,  amplified,  and  sent  to  their 
respective  oscillators  to  synchronize 
their  respective  traces.  Included  in  the 
vertical  sync  pulses  (assuming  in- 
terlaced scanning  is  used)  are 
equalization  pulses  whose  function  is 
to  assure  that  the  second  field  of  lines 
is  interlaced  with  the  first. 

Electron-Beam  Modulation 

The  last  link  in  the  chain  to  create 
an  image  is  to  modulate  the  electron 
beam,  turning  it  on  and  off  to  display 
white  dots  on  the  dim  raster;  this 
forms  the  dot  matrices  arranged  as 
alphanumeric  characters.  The  infor- 


mation contained  in  the  composite 
video  signal  is  actually  a  series  of 
voltage  reference  levels  which  are 
amplified  in  the  video  amplifier  and 
applied  to  the  control  grid  or  cathode 
of  the  picture  tube  to  turn  the  electron 
beam  on  or  cut  it  off.  The  black  field 
in  the  display  is  represented  by  a 
voltage  near  the  black  level  just  under 
the  horizontal  sync  pulse.  Figure  7  il- 
lustrates this.  The  white  dots  in  the 
picture  are  represented  by  the  white 
level,  or  minimum  voltage.  In  scan- 
ning the  display  shown  in  figure  8a, 
when  the  beam  begins  its  trace  at 
point  A,  the  voltage  level  is 
minimum,  or  white  as  in  figure  8b. 
When  point  B  is  reached,  the  voltage 
level  jumps  to  the  black  reference 
level  and  cuts  off  the  beam  at  the  pic- 
ture tube.  A  black  screen  is  evident. 
At  point  C,  the  beam  is  on  again,  and 
white  is  presented. 

Production  of  a  display  on  a  video 
terminal  is  more  complex,  but  the 
beam  is  modulated  in  the  same  way 
to  produce  numerous  dots  of  white 


214       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Q  Cromemco 
incorporated 
Tomorrow's  Computers  Today 


(jSF 


Discover  Savings  and  Service  with 


MAI 

(ORDE 


L  ORDER  DIVISION       \ 

tERTOLL  FREE)  J 


•  WE  ARE  PROUD  to  be  an  AUTHORIZED  CROMEMCO  DEALER 

•  CROMEMCO  stands  for  quality,  reliability  and  obsolescence  insurance 

•  CROMEMCO  is  widely  recognized  as  a  microcomputer  industry  leader 

•  CROMEMCO  provides  strong  support  for  their  dealers  and  end-users 

•  THE  BOTTOM  LINE  -  it's  what  you  buy  AND  where  you  buy  it  ...  WE  CARE! 


New- 


CROMIX  IS  HERE! 


The  exciting  new  multi-user,  multi- 
tasking operating  system  with  many 
added  capabilities. 


\\&n. 


SYSTEM  ZERO! 


The   S-100  personal   computer  with 
Cromemco  reliability. 

16FDC 

Double  density  disk  controller 


fi&f**  '  '        RPG  II 
Exclusive  offering  of  this  important 
business    language    by    a    microcom- 
puter manufacturer 

LISP 
The    language    for   Artificial    Intelli- 
gence research 


M(jW"  *  '    QUADART! 

4  port  serial  I/O 

INTELLIGENT  I/O  CONTROLLER! 

On  board  Z-80 

Use   these   together   for  results  you 
won't  believe! 


N*w 


BUSINESS 
SYSTEMS  SOFTWARE! 

General  Ledger 
Accounts  Payable 
Accounts  Receivable 
Inventory 

An  integrated  turnkey  system  that 
requires  no  computer  programming 
knowledge.  Produced  and  supported 
by  Cromemco,  and  designed  to 
make  full  use  of  the  advanced 
features  found  in  Cromemco  hard- 
ware. 


SYSTEMS: 


List 


Our  Price 


SYSTEM  2  3990  3190. 

Now  double  density! 
Dual      double-sided      mini      floppy      disk 
drives;  64K  RAM 

SYSTEM  3  7395.  CALL 

Now  double  density! 
2  Mbyte  of  dual  double-sided  8"  floppy 
disk;  64K  RAM 


Z-2H 


CALL 


9995. 

Now  double  density! 
11    Mbyte    integral    hard   disk;  2  double- 
sided  5"  floppy  disks;  64K  RAM 

All  Cromemco  systems  feature  the 
S-100  industry  standard  bus,  4  MHZ 
Z-80  CPU,  64K  RAM,  and  can  be 
easily  upgraded  to  multi-user,  multi- 
tasking capability. 


PERIPHERALS: 

3102  "SMART"  TERMINAL 
40  function  keys;  detachable  keyboard 
with  14-key  numeric  pad 

3703  DOT-MATRIX  PRINTER 
180  CPS;  18-inch  platen;  132  columns; 
bi-directional     with     double     buffering 

3355A  FULL  LETTER  PRINTER 
55  CPS;  15-inch  platen;  quality  impress- 
ion suited  to  camera  copy 

BOARDS:  List  Our    Price 

SGL.CARD  COMP.  450.  380. 

8K  BYTESAVERII  245.  210. 

32K  BYTESAVER  295.  CALL 

ZPU  395.  335. 

4FDC  495.  420. 

64KZ  1785.  1510. 

TU-ART  295.  250. 

SDI  595.  CALL 
High  resolution  color  graphics  interface 


Our 
LANGUAGES:  List  Price 

COBOL,  now  updated  95.  90. 

FORTRAN  IV  95.  90. 

MACRO  ASSEMBLER  95.  90. 

16K  BASIC  95.  90. 

32K  BASIC  295.  275. 

DATA  BASE  MGMT.  95.  90. 

WORD  PROCESSING  95.  90. 

RATFOR  195.  180. 

TRACE  95.  90. 

EBS  BUSINESS  SOFTWARE: 

GENERAL  LEDGER;  ACCOUNTS  PAY- 
ABLE; ACCOUNTS  RECEIVABLE;  PAY- 
ROLL (Calif.);  INVENTORY;  ORDER 
ENTRY 

List  Price  $995.  each 

Customization  available 


Call  or  write  for  our  low  mail  order  prices  on  all  CROMEMCO  products  ...  or  on  PERSCI  disk  drives, 
MEASUREMENT  SYSTEMS  boards,  BASE  2,  QUME,  SOROC,  ADDS,  TVI,  NEC  SPINWRITER  or 
other  quality  products.  


•XECUTIVE 


USINESS 


lYSTEMS 


20457  E.  Valley  Blvd.,  Walnut,  CA  91789 
(714)  594-5736 


WE  ALSO  OFFER: 

•  Complete  analysis  of  your  system  needs 

•  Installation,  training,  support  &  maintenance 

•  Custom  applications  software 
kAT  OUR   REGULAR  CONSULTING   RATES 

Phone  inquiries  welcome 


Prices  shown  are  for  "Cash  with  Order" 
COLLECT  PHONE  ORDERS  WELCOME  or  Send  check  or 
M.O.  (Personal  or  Co.  checks  require  2  wks.  to  clear)  Please 
include  phone  number.  Shipping  charges  will  be  added. 
Within  Calif,  add  applicable  sales  tax.  Factory  warranty 
included.  All  prices  subject  to  revision. 


CP/M  !'     Digital 


CDOSS 
Research 


Cromemco,  Inc. 
CBASIC™ 


Compiler  Systems 


i7 


Circle  134  on  Inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


215 


(corresponding  to  data  elements  sent 
from  the  video  interface).  Alternate 
methods  employ  black  data  elements 
on  a  white  field.  The  frequency 
response  of  the  video  amplifier  stages 
determines  how  fast  the  beam  can  be 
turned  on  and  off;  the  faster  the 
response,  the  more  data  elements  can 
be  displayed  on  each  line  with  good 
resolution. 

Home  Television  Receivers 

The  video  amplifier  section  in  a 
professional  monitor  differs  greatly 
from  that  in  a  television  receiver. 
Television  receivers  can  rarely  be 
modified  to  produce  dots  of  a  rate 
beyond  5  MHz,  while  monitors  can 
be  purchased  with  from  12  to  100 
MHz  response.  The  converted  televi- 
sion receiver  must  have  its  tuner,  in- 
termediate frequency  amplifier  and 
sound  section  switched  out  when 
employing  direct  video  input.  The 
limited  frequency  response  generally 
allows  only  up  to  thirty-two 
characters  per  line,  but  the  low  cost 
of  such  receivers  makes  them  an  at- 
tractive choice. 

After  injection  and  amplification  of 
the  composite  video  signal  in  a  televi- 


sion receiver  used  for  video  display, 
the  video  is  separated  from  the  syn- 
chronization pulses,  and  the  latter  are 
sent  to  the  synchronization  section. 
The  separated  video  information  is 
then  amplified  by  the  video  amplifier, 
coupled  to  the  picture  tube,  and  used 
to  modulate  the  electron  beam.  In 
systems  using  separate  video  and  syn- 
chronization inputs,  the  vertical  and 
horizontal  pulses  are  not  processed  in 
a  synchronization  separator,  but  are 
fed  directly  to  their  respective 
oscillators.  The  separate  video  is 
directly  coupled  to  the  video  output 
stage. 

Troubleshooting 

When  all  the  circuits  described 
above  are  working  in  perfect  unison 
and  are  synchronized  by  the  com- 
posite video  signal,  a  stable  display 
will  be  produced.  A  malfunction  at 
any  stage  in  the  monitor  creates  a 
problem  peculiar  to  that  particular 
section.  So,  what  do  you  do  when  the 
monitor  fails? 

The  first  step  is  to  obtain  a  good, 
accurate  schematic  of  the  circuitry 
(preferably  before  any  problems  oc- 
cur). The  manufacturer  should  sup- 


ply this.  Locating  problems  can  be 

somewhat  simplified  by  considering  a 
monitor  as  consisting  of  the  sections 
shown  in  the  block  diagram  of  figure 
9.  Using  this  diagram,  we  can  observe 
the  signal  flow  lines  to  generally 
predict  the  section  where  the  problem 
may  lie.  Some  symptoms  and  their 
solutions  will  prove  helpful. 

•  No  Video  or  Raster:  Assuming  that 
the  power  supply  is  functioning, 
the  absence  of  raster  could  mean 
that  the  electron  beam  is  not  being 
deflected  across  the  picture  tube 
screen.  Perhaps  no  beam  is  pre- 
sent, so  the  logical  checkpoint  is 
the  high-voltage  section  to  see  if 
the  beam  accelerating  potential  is 
present.  Use  of  a  high-voltage 
probe  is  necessary  here. 

If  the  high  voltage  is  present  at 
the  anode  of  the  picture  tube,  it  is 
best  to  measure  voltages  at  the 
control  grid  and  cathode  of  the  pic- 
ture tube,  assuming  that  a  visual 
check  revealed  that  the  heater  was 
lit.  Having  cleared  the  picture  tube 
and  proving  that  a  beam  can  be 
formed,  proceed  to  check  the 
horizontal-sweep     section     where 


32  K  BYTE  MEMORY 

RELIABLE  AND  COST  EFFECTIVE  RAM  FOR 
6502  &  6800  BASED  MICROCOMPUTERS 


AIM  65-*KHVrSYM 

PETS44-BUS 


*  PLUG  COMPATIBLE  WITH  THE  AIM-65/SYM  EXPANSION 
CONNECTOR  'BY  USING  A  RIGHT  ANGLE  CONNECTOR 
(SUPPLIED)  MOUNTED  ON  THE  BACK  OF  THE  MEMORY 
BOARD 

*  MEMORY  BOARD  EDGE  CONNECTOR  PLUGS  INTO  THE 
6800  S  44  BUS 

*  CONNECTS  TO  PET  OR  KIM  USING  AN  ADAPTOR  CABLE. 

*  RELIABLE-DYNAMIC  RAM  WITH  ON  BOARD  INVISIBLE 
REFRESH-LOOKS  LIKE  STATIC  MEMORY  BUT  AT 
LOWER  COST  AND  A  FnACTION  OF  THE  POWER 
REQUIRED  FOR  STATIC  BOARDS. 

*  USES  *5V  ONLY.  SUPPLIED  FROM  HOST  COMPUTER. 

»  FULL  DOCUMENTATION.  ASSEMBLED  AND  TESTED 
BOARDS  ARE  GUARANTEED  FOR  ONE  YEAR  AND 
PURCHASE  PRICE  IS  FULLY  REFUNDABLE  IF  BOARD  IS 
RETURNED  UNDAMAGED  WITHIN  14  DAYS. 

ASSEMBLED    WITH  32K  RAM $395.00 

«  WITH  16K  RAM $339.00 

TESTED       WITHOUT  RAM  CHIPS $279.00 

HARD  TO  GET  PARTS  (NO  RAM  CHIPS) 

WITH  BOARD  AND  MANUAL  $109.00 

BARE  BOARD  S  MANUAL  $49.00 


PET  INTERFACE  KIT-CONNECTS  THE  32K  RAM  BOARD  TO 
A  4K  OR  8K  PET  CONTAINS  INTERFACE  CABLE,  BOARD 
STANDOFFS.  POWER  SUPPLY  MODIFICATION  KIT  AND 
COMPLETE  INSTRUCTIONS  $49.00 


U.S.  PRICES  ONLY 


i»sjSi^a,iB»i»*£S*~S!li3S!BP5j 


16K  MEMORY 
EXPANSION  KIT 


ONLY 


$58 


FOR  APPLE,  TRS-80  KEYBOARD, 
EXIDY,  AND  ALL  OTHER  16K 
DYNAMIC  SYSTEMS  USING 
MK4116-3  OR  EQUIVALENT 
DEVICES. 

•  200  NSEC  ACCESS,  375  NSEC 
CYCLE 

•  BURNEDIN  AND  FULLY 
TESTED 

•  1  YR.  PARTS  REPLACEMENT 
GUARANTEE 

•  0TY.  DISCOUNTS  AVAILABLE 


ALL  ASSEMBLED  BOARDS  AND 
MEMORY  CHIPS  CARRY  A  FULL  ONE 
YEAR   REPLACEMENT  WARRANTY 


COmPUTER    DEVICES 

1230  UJ.COUinS    AVE. 

ORflDCE,     CR   92668 

(714)633-7280 

nls  please  add  6%  sales  tax.  Mastercharg«> 

„ 'pied    Please  allow  14  days  lor  checks  !■ 

ank.  Phone  orders  welcome.  Shipping  charge* 
,  added  to  all  shipments. 


216       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  135  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  136  on  Inquiry  card. 


HANDLER 

CONCESSIONAIRES 

DISTRIBUIDORES 

O.E.M. 

AUSGEZEICHNETE  GROSS  = 
HANDELSPREISE  stellen  nureinen 
Aspekt  unseres  Handlerprogrammes 
dar.  Treten  Sie  noch  heute  mit  uns 
in  Verbindung.  (Wir  sprechen 
Deutsch) 


UN  EXCELLENT  PRIX  DE  GROS 
ne  represente  qu'un  seul  aspect  de 
notre  programme  de  distribution  in- 
ternationale.  Mettez-vous  en  contact 
avec  nous  aujourd'hui  pour  recevoir 
plus  de  renseignements.  (On  parle 
francais!) 


EL  EXCELENTE  PRECIO  AL 
MAYOREO  que  ofrecemos  repre- 
senta  solo  un  aspecto  de  nuestro 
programa  de  distribucion  inter- 
nacional.  Pongase  en  contacto  con 
nosotros  para  informacion  mas 
detallada.  (Se  habla  espafiol!) 


A.D.D.S. 

IND.  MICRO 

ANADEX 

OKIDATA 

APPLE 

SOROC 

CENTRONICS 

SUPERBRAIN 

CROMEMCO 

TELEVIDEO 

HAZELTINE 

TEXAS  INSTR. 

CT) 


Micro-Computer  Brokers 

INTERNATIONAL 

6819-P.  North  2 1  si  Avenue 
Phoenix,  Arizona  8501 5   U.S.A. 

Telephone:  (602)  242-996 1 
Telex:  (0)  668382 


voltages  originate  which  directly 
or  indirectly  affect  both  horizontal 
and  vertical  deflections  of  the 
beam.  The  final  step  would  be  a 
check  of  the  deflection  system 
itself. 

•  No  Video  —  Raster  Present:  A 
raster  always  indicates  that  ver- 
tical and  horizontal  sweep,  deflec- 
tion, high-voltage  and  low-voltage 
sections  are  working.  Assuming  a 
video  signal  is  present,  we  should 
investigate  all  portions  of  the 
monitor's  video  amplifier  section, 
also  the  picture-tube-control-grid 
and  cathode  circuits. 

•  Raster  and  Video  Present  —  Ver- 
tical Rolling:  Assuming  the  vertical 
hold  control  does  not  stop  the  ver- 
tical roll,  this  indicates  that  the 
vertical  oscillator  is  not  in  step 
with  the  video  interface  signal.  The 
obvious  starting  point  is  the  ver- 
tical sweep  section,  particularly 
the  vertical  oscillator. 

•  Raster  and  Video  Present  — 
Horizontal  Lines:  This  problem  is 
very  similar  to  the  above  vertical 
problem,  except  that  horizontal 
lines  are  the  problem.  Again,  this 
indicates  that  the  horizontal 
oscillator  is  out  of  step  with  the 
video  interface  circuitry.  In- 
vestigate the  horizontal  oscillator 
to  correct  this  problem. 

•  Raster,  Video  Present  —  Display 
Rolling  and  Drifting  Sideways: 
This  is  both  a  vertical  and  horizon- 
tal problem.  Obviously  the  circuit 
feeding  both  horizontal  and  ver- 
tical oscillators  is  at  fault,  and  this 
would  be  the  synchronization 
separator  or  amplifier.  When 
symptoms  or  tests  indicate  one  sec- 
tion as  the  probable  point  of  trou- 
ble, proceed  to  check  voltages  for 
direct-current  biasing  and  use  an 
oscilloscope  to  investigate 
waveforms. 

Troubleshooting  is  a  logical,  step- 
by-step  procedure.  In  repairing  your 
monitor,  the  screen  is  the  best  visual 
aid  you  have,  and  should  be  utilized 
to  the  utmost  in  preliminary 
generalizations  as  to  the  problem  cir- 
cuit. And  troubleshooting  a  video 
monitor  yourself,  whether  or  not  it's 
homebrew,  can  give  you  the  satisfac- 
tion of  knowing  your  hardware  a  lit- 
tle bit  more.B 


You  can  buy  wholesale 

without  being  a  corporate  giant.  The 
Purchasing  Agent  provides  a  per- 
sonalized commercial  buying  service 
for  companies  and  individuals. 

The  Purchasing  Agent  will  get  you 
the  lowest  wholesale  price  by: 

•  Aggressively  bidding  wholesalers 
against  each  other  on  your  order, 

•  Consolidating  orders  for  volume 
discounts,  and 

•  Using  professional  buyers'  thor- 
ough knowledge  of  the  computer 
market. 

The  Purchasing  Agent  will  get  you 
the  quickest  deliveries  direct  from 
wholesalers'  inventories. 

Here  are  examples  of  items  clients 
have  purchased  recently  through  The 
Purchasing  Agent  and  the  prices  paid. 
(Prices  shown  include  the  buying  fee.) 


COMPUTERS 

Alpha  Micro  10  MEG 

$11,203 

Altos  64K,  1  MEG 

3,370 

Commodore  CBM  32K 

1,344 

Dynabyte  DB  8/1  64K 

2,480 

EXIDY  48K  Sorcerer 

1,118 

HP-85 

2,970 

North  Star  Hoz  II  32K  D.D. 

2,332 

Super  Brain  64K 

2,600 

Tl  99/4 

859 

Zenith  Z-8016K 

1,960 

Zenith  Z-89  48K 

2,214 

PRINTERS 

Anadex  9500 

$1,204 

Base  2 

493 

Centronics  737 

749 

Diablo  630 

2,139 

Diablo  1 640  RO 

2,622 

Intergal  Data  Paper  Tiger 

852 

NEC  5510  W/Tractors 

2,520 

Qume  Sprint  5  R/O 

2,445 

Tl  810  Basic 

1,480 

VIDEO  DISPLAY 

Hazeltine  1500 

$854 

Lear  Siegler  ADM3A  + 

812 

Televideo912C 

685 

Televideo920C 

754 

Zenith  Z-1 9 

798 

SOFTWARE 

Ward  Star 

$275 

Magic  Wond 

220 

Over  200  computers,  CRT's  and 
printers  plus  software. 

All  products  are  new  and  carry  full  manufac- 
turerer's  warranty  against  original  defects.  Whole- 
sale prices  are  subject  to  change  without  notice.  The 
Purchasing  Agent  has  a  minimum  fee  of  $75.00. 

THE 

PURCHASING 

AGENT 

18  Daisy  Lane 
Orinda,  CA  94563 
(415)376-9020 


FIRST  CLASS 

interfacing 

CompuPro's  feature-packed  S-100  I/O  boards  conform  to  the  IEEE  696/S-100  standard  to 
provide  reliable,  cost-effective  interfacing  between  your  computer  and  its  associated 
peripherals  (such  as  terminals  and  printers). 

Interfacer  I  is  a  dual  channel,  full  RS-232  serial  board.  Hardware  UARTs  perform  all 
basic  I/O  operations,  thus  freeing  the  CPU  from  the  need  to  perform  these  routines;  this 
increases  speed  and  reliability. 

Interfacer  II  incorporates  one  channel  of  serial  I/O  (identical  to  an  Interfacer  I  serial 
port),  three  full  duplex  parallel  ports  for  handling  I/O  data,  and  a  separate  full  duplex 
parallel  port  for  status  and  interrupt  control  to  give  unparalleled  interfacing  flexibility. 


interfacer  I 


Dual  RS-232  ports  with  full  handshake 

•  Independently  selectable  Baud  rates  for  each  port,  up  to  19.2  KBaud  -  simulta- 
neously drives  slow  and  fast  devices  (such  as  teletype/terminal  combinations) 
•  EIA  line  drivers  and  receivers 
•  Conversion  to  TTL,  current  loop  (20  mA),  and  RS-232  levels  for  interfacing 
to  almost  any  kind  of  serial  device 

•  On-board  crystal  timebase  for  freedom  from  system  clock  variations 
•  Software  programmable  UART  parameters,  interrupt  enables,  and  hand 
shaking  lines  (handshaking  lines  are  full  RS-232  -  not  just  a  three  wire  system) 
•  Operates  with  2  or  4  MHz  systems 
•  Provision  for  optically  isolated  current  loop  for  each  channel 
•  Dip  switch  selectable  port  addresses 
•  Provision  for  custom  frequency  compensation  on  both  receive  and  transmit  sides  (accomodates 
varying  speed/noise  situations  or  unusual  cable  lengths) 
Compatible  with  interrupt-driven  I/O  systems 


PARALLEL  CHANNELS 


interfacer  II 


•  Latched  input  and  output  data  with  24  mA  drive  current 
•  Each  full  duplex  port  has  strobe,  attention,  and  enable  bits  (each  with 
selectable  polarity);  an  input  interrupt;  and  16  data  lines,  giving  a  three 
port  total  of  48  true  data  lines 
•  Interrupts  for  each  input  port 
•  Separate  25  pin  connectors  with  power  for  each  channel 

•  Separate  status  port  for  interrupt  mask  and  port  status 

•  No  mode  selection/initialization  required 
•  Handles  Centronics  type  interface,  daisy  type  printers,  and  interfaces  to 

A/D  converters 

SERIAL  CHANNEL 

•  RS-232  port  includes  all  features  of  an  Interfacer  I  serial  channel,  such  as  EIA  line  drivers 
and  receivers,  interfacing  to  almost  any  kind  of  serial  device,  on-board  crystal  controlled  Baud  rate 
generator  (up  to  19.2  KBaud),  full  interrupt  capability,  etc. 
•  Works  with  any  software  I/O  drivers  developed  for  the  Interfacer  I 

Either  board  costs  $199  unkit  (sockets,  bypass  capacitors  pre-soldered  in  place),  $249 
assembled,  and  $324  qualified  under  the  Certified  System  Component  high-reliability  program. 

These  and  other  CompuPro  products  are  available  at  finer  computer  stores  world-wide; 

write  us  direct  if  there's  no  store  in  your  area. 

TERMS:  California™  add  tax.  Allow  5%  for  shipping,  excess  refunded.  VISA®/Mastercard®  orders  call  (415)  5624636,  24  hours.  Please  include  street  address  for  UPS  delivery. 


CompuPro™ 


from 


ELECTRONICS 


Bldg.  725,  Oakland  Airport,  CA  94614 


218        BYTE  November  1980 


Circle  137  on  inquiry  card. 


^^^■■^■■■■■■■^■■M  Please  note:  Several  of  our  unkits  have 
been  significantly  reduced  in  price  -  however,  we  must  caution  that  unkits 
are  not  intended  for  novice  builders.  While  assembly  is  simple,  de-bugging 
may  be  required  to  bring  up  an  unkit  due  to  such  problems  as  IC  infant  mortali- 
ty. It  is  assumed  that  most  unkit  users  will  have  sufficient  test  equipment  and 
knowledge  to  do  their  own  de-bugging;  however,  factory  service  for  unkits  is 
available  for  a  flat  service  charge. 

CompuPro  products  are  also  available  assembled,  or  qualified  under  our 
high-reliability  Certified  Sytem  Component  (CSC)  program  {200  hour  burn-in, 
extensive  testing,  more). 


FULLY  STATIC  MEMORY 

Our  memories  feature  fully  static  design  to  eliminate  dynamic  tim- 
ing problems,  IEEE  spec  compatibility,  4/5  MHz  operation,  low  power, 
extensive  bypassing,  and  careful  thermal  design.  CSC  memories  will 
run  with  10  MHz  CPU  clock,  speeds  on  the  S-100  bus  {while  drawing 
half  the  current  of  non-CSC  boards)  to  give  high  speed,  ultra-low 
power  operation. 

If  you're  looking  for  specs  -  if  you're  looking  for  performance  —  if 
you're  looking  for  exceptional  value,  then  look  no  further  than  the 
RAM  series  from  CompuPro. 

3"1UU  KA/\ri  XX  (with  bank  select  and  IEEE  compatible  extended  addressing) 

unkit         assm         CSC 

16K  RAM  XX-16 $319  $399  $479 

24K  RAM  XX-24 $439  $539  $629 

32K  RAM  X-32 $559  $699  $799 

OTHER  S-100  MEMORY 

8K  RAM  IIA $159     $189     $239 

16K  RAM  XIV $279     $349     $429 

{Includes  IEEE  compatible  extended  addressing.) 

SBC/BLC  MEMORY 

32K  RAM  XI n/a        n/a        $1050 

COMPUPRO  S-100  MOTHERBOARDS: 
DESIGNED  FOR  THE  FUTURE, 

AVAILABLE  NOW 

Specifically  designed  to  handle  the  new  generation  of  5  to  10  MHz 
CPUs  coming  on  line  (as  well  as  present  day  2  and  4  MHz  systems), 
these  advanced  motherboards  feature  Faraday  shielding  between  all 
bus  signal  lines  to  minimize  crosstalk,  active  termination  that  splits 
the  termination  load  between  each  end  of  every  bus  line,  and 
mechanical  compatibility  with  Godbout,  Vector,  Imsai,  TEI,  and 
similar  enclosures.  Available  in  "unkit"  form  (edge  connectors  and 
termination  resistors  pre-soldered  in  place  for  easy  assembly),  or  fully 
assembled  and  ready  to  go. 

*CK-024  20  slot  motherboard  with  edge  connectors  — 

unkit  $174,    assm  $214 

*CK-025  12  slot  motherboard  with  edge  connectors  — 

unkit  $129,    assm  $169 

*CK-026    6  slot  motherboard  with  edge  connectors  — 

unkit    $89,    assm  $129 

PASCAL/M  + MEMORY  SPECIAL 

PASCAL  -  easy  to  learn,  easy  to  apply  -  can  give  a  microcomputer 
with  CP/M°more  power  than  many  minis.  We  supply  a  totally  stan- 
dard Wirth  PASCAL/M  8"  diskette  by  Sorcim,  with  manual  and 
Wirth's  difinitive  book  on  PASCAL,  for  $150  with  the  purchase  of  any 
memory  board.  Specify  Z-80  or  8080/8085  version.  PASCAL/M 

available  Separately  for  $1  75.  'CP/M  is  a  trademark  of  Digital  Research 

OTHER  S-100  BUS  PRODUCTS 

Active  Terminator  Board $34.50  kit 

Memory  Manager  Board $59  unkit,  $85  assm, 

$100  CSC 

Mullen  Extender  Board $59  kit 

Mullen  Relay  Optolsolator  Control  Board .  .  $129  lot,  $1 79  assm 

^S&SS^  "■""" 

*■>  fle*        ^o»      ^o**1 

VISIT  FINER  COMPUTER  ST( 


CPU-Z:  8  BITS  OF  Z80A  POWER 

FOR  THE  S-100  BUS 

Superior  design  in  a  true  IEEE-compatible  board  {timing  specs 
available  on  request)  gives  the  power  for  future  expansion  as  well  as 
system  flexibility.  Includes  all  standard  Z-80A  features  along  with 
power  on  jump/clear,  on-board  fully  maskable  interrupts  for 
interrupt-d riven  systems,  selectable  automatic  wait  state  insertion, 
provision  for  adding  up  to  8K  of  on-board  EPROM,  IEEE  compatible 
16/24  bit  extended  addressing,  and  much  more.  Works  with  6  MHz 
Z80As;  supplied  with  4  MHz  CPU.  $225  unkit,  $295  assm,  $395  CSC. 

CPU  8085/88: 

16  BIT  DUAL  PROCESSING 
POWER  FOR  THE  S-100  BUS 

CPU  8085/88  uses  an  8088  CPU  for  true  16  bit  power  with  a  stan- 
dard 8  bit  S-100  bus,  and  an  8085  for  compatibility  with  CP/M  and 
8060  software.  Accesses  up  to  16  megabytes  of  memory,  meets  all 
IEEE  S-100  bus  specifications  (timing  specs  available  on  request),  runs 

8085  and  8086  code  in  your  existing  mainframe  as  well  as  Microsoft 

8086  BASIC  and  Sorcim  PASCAL/M,  runs  at  5  MHz  for  speed  as  well 
as  power,  and  is  built  to  the  same  stringent  standards  that  have 
established  our  leadership  in  S-100  bus  components.  $295  unkit, 
$425  assm,  (both  operate  at  5  MHz);  $525  CSC  (with  5  MHz  8085,  6 
MHz  8088). 

CPU  8085  (single  processor  version  of  above):  $235  unkit,  $325 
assm,  $425  CSC. 

SPECTRUM  S-100  COLOR 

GRAPHICS  BOARD  | 

Includes  8K  of  IEEE-compatible  static  RAM;  full  duplex  bidirectional 
parallel  I/O  port  for  keyboard,  joystick,  etc.  interface;  and  6847-based 
graphics  generator  that  can  display  all  64  ASCII  characters.  10  modes 
of  operation,  from  alphanumeric/semi-graphics  in  8  colors  to  ultra- 
dense  256  x  192  full  graphics.  75  Ohm  RS-170  line  output  and  video 
output  for  use  with  FCC  approved  modulators.  $339  unkit,  $399 
assm,  $449  CSC.  You  don't  have  to  settle  for  black  and  white 
graphics  or  stripped-down  color  boards;  specify  the  CompuPro 
Spectrum. 

Want  graphics  software?  Sublogic's  2D  Universal  Graphics  Inter- 
preter (normally  $35)  is  yours  for  $25  with  any  Spectrum  board  pur- 
chase. 

2708  S-100  EPROM  BOARD    $85  unkit 

4  independently  addressable  4K  blocks,  with  dipswitch  selectable 
jump  start  built  right  into  the  board.  Includes  all  support  chips  and 
manual,  but  does  not  include  EPROMs. 

GODBOUT 

COMPUTER  ENCLOSURE 

$289  desktop,  $329  rack  mount 

This  handsome  enclosure  does  justice  to  the  finest  computer 
system.  Includes  dual  AC  outlets  and  fuseholder  on  rear,  heavy-duty 
line  filter,  and  black  anodized  front  panel  {with  textured  vinyl  painted 
cover  for  desktop  version).  Pre-drilled  base  accepts  our  high- 
performance  S-100  motherboards  or  types  by  Vector,  California 
Digital,  and  others.  Rack  mount  version  includes  slides  for  easy  pull- 
out  from  rack  for  maintenance  or  board  changing. 

NEW  LOW  PRICE 

16K  DYNAMIC  RAMS  -  8/$39 !! 

Lowest  price  ever  on  one  of  our  most  popular  items.  Expands 
memory  in  TRS-80*  -I  and  -II,  as  well  as  machines  made  by  Apple,  Ex- 
idy,  Heath  H89,  newer  PETs,  etc.  Low  power,  high  speed  (4  MHz). 
And  $3  for  2  dip  shunts  plus  TRS-80*  conversion  instructions.  Limited 
quantity  —  first  come,  first  served. 

DC  ROBOT  MOTOR  SPECIAL 

DC  fractional  horsepower  motor  runs  on  about  1  to  5V.  Not  a  ser- 
vo motor  by  any  means,  but  good  for  experimenting  with  robots, 
toys,  games,  etc.  10/$2.95 

FREE  CATALOGUE:  Find  out  more  about  our  product  line.  For  1st 
class  delivery,  add  41  cents  in  stamps;  foreign  orders  add  $2  (refund- 
able with  order). 

TERMS:  Cal  res  add  tax.  Allow  V*  for  shipping,  excess  refunded.  Orders  under  $1 5  add 
$1  handling.  VISA® /Mastercard®  orders  ($25  min)  call  (415)  562-4)636,  24  hrs.  Please 
include  street  address  for  UPS  delivery.  Sale  prices  good  through  cover  month  of 
magazine,  other  prices  subject  to  change  without  notice. 


VISIT  FINER  COMPUTER  STORES  WORLD-WIDE  FOR  MORE  INFORMATION  ON  THESE 

OUTSTANDING  PRODUCTS,  OR  WRITE  US  DIRECT  IF  THERE'S  NO  STORE  IN  YOUR  AREA. 


Bldg.  72S,  Oakland  Airport,  CA  94614 


from 


*^  ELECTRONICS    ^ 


H  the  Tandy  CotjotjIiw 


Circle  137  on  Inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


219 


Digital  Storage  of  Images 


Thomas  Williams 

39A  Mill  St 

Maynard  MA  01754 


The  availability  of  inexpensive 
computer  memory  has  brought  high- 
resolution  gray-scale  and  color 
graphics  within  the  reach  of  the  home 
computer  experimenter.  Over  the  last 
decade  the  ability  to  capture  video 
signals  in  digital  form,  manipulate  the 
stored  data,  and  display  it  has  moved 
from  military  and  research  engineers 
to  undergraduates  and  interested 
hobbyists. 

Quantization 

Before  examining  methods  of  cap- 
turing video  signals,  let's  look  at  im- 
age quantization,  which  is  the  process 
of  converting  an  image  into  one  or 
more  arrays  of  numbers.  The  value  of 
each  array  element  represents  the 
measure  of  light  present  in  the  area  of 
a  corresponding  point  in  the  original 
image.  These  array  or  picture 
elements  are  called  pixels. 

A  typical  gray-scale  image  might 
be  quantized  into  a  two-dimensional 
array  of  values  that  range  from  0  to 
15,  representing  intensity  values  from 
black  to  white.  If  the  array  were  256 
by  256  elements  or  64  K  pixels,  each 
with  a  4-bit  value,  the  array  would 
occupy  32  K  8-bit  bytes  of  memory. 

Scanning 

To  perform  the  quantization,  the 
image  is  scanned  by  a  transducer 
capable  of  converting  light  into  an 
electronic  signal.  This  signal  is 
sampled  periodically,  and  each  sam- 
ple is  converted  into  a  numeric  value. 
Transducer  sensitivity,  scanning  rate, 
and  sampling  rate  all  affect  the  quali- 
ty and  form  of  the  digital  image. 

There  are  basically  four  methods  of 


scanning  images.  The  first  requires 
the  movement  of  the  transducer  with 
respect  to  the  image  or  scene.  This  is 
typically  done  by  drum  scanners 
where  an  image  is  spun  under  a  light 
source  and  photodiode.  (See  figure 
1.) 


No  matter  how  much  ef- 
fort is  spent  on  improving 
the  system,  the  results  are 
only  as  good  as  the  input. 


The  second  method  deflects  either  a 
light  beam  or  sensor  optics  in  two 
dimensions  to  scan  the  image.  This 
method  is  often  used  in  a  device 
called  a  flying-spot  scanner;  such 
devices  were  used  during  the  first 
decades  of  television  for  transferring 
movies  to  video  form  for  broadcast. 

The  third  method  is  the  use  of  a 
television  camera.  In  a  television  tube 
(ie:  a  vidicon)  the  image  is  focused  on 
a  target  that  is  scanned  with  an  elec- 
tron beam.  (See  figure  2.)  It  can  be 
thought  of  as  a  CRT  (cathode-ray 
tube)  working  in  reverse. 

The  fourth  method,  which  is  still 
rather  expensive,  is  the  photodiode- 
array  camera.  It  uses  an  integrated 
circuit  which  contains  an  array  of 
photodiodes  and  circuitry  to  help 
scan  the  array.  Advantages  of  this 
camera  over  vidicons  are  the  stability 
of  its  geometry  (as  vidicons  require 
electron-beam  deflection  which  is 
never  completely  repeatable  and  ac- 
curate) and  the  inherent  immunity  to 


shock  (as  vidicons  are  vacuum  tubes 
and  thus  sensitive  to  abuse). 

Video  Costs 

As  with  anything  electronic,  there 
are  uncontrollable  costs  of  precious 
metals  and  precision  parts,  and  con- 
trollable costs  of  design  and 
assembly.  Hardware  hobbyists  with 
good  supplies  of  parts  can  usually 
find  clever  ways  of  cutting  costs. 
Most  of  us,  though,  have  limited 
resources  and  must  buy  kits  or  search 
for  bargains  on  assembled  equip- 
ment. Video  cameras  sometimes 
show  up  at  flea  markets  in  various 
states  of  repair  and  can  provide  you 
with  a  good  video  signal  at  very  low 
cost.  Home-video  enthusiasts  and 
closed-circuit  security  systems  have 
also  provided  a  marketplace  for  inex- 
pensive cameras. 

Cameras  with  sufficient  quality  for 
use  with  digital  image-capture 
systems  can  be  quite  expensive.  The 
increased  costs  usually  provide  more 
geometric  linearity  and  a  more 
uniform  imaging-target  surface. 
Black-and-white  cameras  range  in 
price  from  about  $200  to  $10,000.  At 
the  lower  end  of  the  price  scale  you 
can  expect  about  5%  error  in  the 
linearity  of  the  vertical  and  horizon- 
tal scanning.  Usually  these  errors  are 
not  noticeable.  GeometrjC  linearity  is 
only  important  when  the  image- 
capture  system  is  used  for  a  precise 
geometric  task,  such  as  measurement 
of  object  size. 

Target  nonunif  ormity  is  a  source  of 
concern.  Inexpensive  cameras  may 
have  differences  in  video  level  (for 
uniform  illumination)  across  the  im- 


220       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Why  is  the  88G  Printer 
the  new  industry 

leader? 


■ 


d 


QUALITY 

The  attractive,  durable  88G  casework  is 
formed  from  impact-resistant,  flame- 
retardant  Styron.  Microprocessor  con- 
trolled stepper  motors  provide  precision 
control  over  print  head  and  paper 
positioning.  Computer  quality  tractors 
position  paper  for  readability  and  are 
fully  adjustable  to  accommodate  varying 
paper  widths. 


MICROPROCESSOR 
CONTROLLED  INTERFACE 

The  microprocessor  array  provides  the 
intelligence  for  a  dual  RS232  serial 
and  a  Centronics®  type  parallel  interface. 
Both  inputs  are  fully  buffered  to  allow 
the  88G  to  receive  data  and  print 
simultaneously.  A  IK  character  buffer  is 
standard  with  a  2K  buffer  available  as 
an  option. 

The  short  line  thruput  of  the  88G  has 
been  increased  by  incorporation  of  a 
Quick  Cancel  feature  that  fully  utilizes 
the  bidirectional/unidirectional  printing 
capabilities.  Built-in  diagnostic  and 
self-test  capabilities  allow  the  user  to 
easily  pinpoint  system  problems  and 
a  Power  On  confidence 
test  verifies  jjpt**"" 

operational  status  of        r 
the  printer  each 
time  power  is  applied 


VERSATILITY 

The  88G  prints  a  full  upper  and  lower 
case  96  character  ASCII  set  with  a  crisp, 
clear  7x7  matrix  in  80,  96,  or  132  column 
formats.  For  text  processing  and 
correspondence  applications,  an  11x7, 
80  column  serif  style  matrix  can  be 
selected  by  switch  or  software  command. 
The  dual  tractor/pressure-feed  paper 
drive  system  allows  the  user  to  choose 
either  pin-feed,  roll,  or  single  sheet 
papers  up  to  9.5  inches  wide. 

Complete  forms  control  allows  the 
88G  to  be  quickly  configured  for  printing 
single  or  multiple-ply  invoices,  purchase 
orders,  checks,  or  any  type  of  preprinted 
form.  Optional  paper  roll  holders  and 
single  sheet  feeders  can  be  quickly 
attached. 

The  wide  use  range  of  the  88G  makes 
it  the  perfect  companion  for  business 
systems,  data  processing,  RO  teleprinter 
and  terminal  printer  applications. 

GRAPHICS 

A  high-resolution,  dot-addressable 
graphics  option  can  be  added  for  appli- 
cations requiring  plotting,  printing  of 
screen  graphics,  drawings,  illustrations, 
etc.  Single  dot  print  resolution  greatly 
extends  the  usefulness  of  the  graphics 
capability.  Selection  of  one  of  the 
four  horizontal  dot  densities  available 
customizes  the  graphic  printout,  and 
alphanumerics  can  easily  be  included 
for  titling  of  graphs  and  illustrations. 


% 


LONG  LIFE 
RIBBON  CARTRIDGE 

Ribbon  difficulties  are  minimized 
through  use  of  a  continuous  loop  cart- 
ridge with  a  five  million  character  life. 
It  is  easily  changed  without  opening 
the  case,  and  without  any  complicated 
or  messy  threading  operations. 


PRICE 


Every  detail  is  directed  toward  providing 
a  heavy-duty,  commercial  quality 
printer  for  only  $749.00.  No  other  printer 
on  the  market  today  can  provide  its 
quality,  features  and  performance  at 
a  comparable  price.  The  88G  is  an 
obvious  industry  leader. 


©Centronics  is  a  registered  trademark  of  the  Centronics  Data  Computer  Corp. 


Micro  Peripherals,  Inc. 
2099  West  2200  South 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  84119 
Phone  (801)  973-6053 


Circle  138  on  Inquiry  card. 


LINEAR 
MOTION 


SIGNAL 


ROTATIONAL 
MOTION 


Figure  1:  A  drum  scanner  produces  high-quality  results  by  moving  the  photograph 
relative  to  the  sensor.  Its  drawbacks  are  that  it  requires  precision  mechanical  construc- 
tion, works  very  slowly,  and  the  signal  it  produces  is  not  video-compatible. 


VERTICAL 
DEFLECTION   COILS 


LENSES 


HORIZONTAL    DEFLECTION 
COILS 


SIGNAL 


Figure  2:  A  vidicon  tube.  This  most  popular  method  of  converting  an  image  into  an 
electronic  signal  uses  a  photo-sensitive  imaging  target  which  is  scanned  by  an  electron 
beam.  The  resulting  signal  is  the  scanned  image  in  the  form  of  a  changing  voltage. 
Disadvantages  of  the  vidicon  are  its  unstable  geometry  (since  electron-beam  deflection 
is  never  completely  repeatable  and  accurate)  and  its  low  resistance  to  shock  (since 
vidicons  are  vacuum  tubes). 


age  as  much  as  20%.  This  error  (also 
called  shading)  is  still  present  in  more 
expensive  cameras  where  it's  typically 
reduced  to  10%  or  less.  Fortunately, 
the  shading  effect  changes  slowly 
across  the  image  target.  Actual 
defects  in  the  target  are  often  found  in 
inexpensive  cameras,  leading  to  black 
or  white  spots  in  the  image. 

It  is  possible  to  make  some  correc- 
tion for  the  effects  of  shading  and 
defects  after  the  image  is  quantized. 
To  do  so,  you  first  quantize  an  image 
of  a  solid-gray  surface.  The  deviation 
of  each  point's  value  from  the  average 
value  indicates  the  amount  of  correc- 
tion that  is  necessary.  By  storing  this 
image  (or  an  image  of  corresponding 
correction  values)  the  recorded  target 
sensitivity  can  be  used  to  improve  the 
quality  of  another  image  quantized 
from  the  same  television  camera. 

A  television  camera  is  to  an  image- 
capture  system  as  an  antenna  is  to  a 
television  set.  No  matter  how  much 
effort  is  spent  on  improving  the 
system,  the  results  are  only  as  good  as 
the  input.  Although  the  system  can  be 
made  to  compensate  for  some  of  the 
deviations  in  the  camera,  improve- 
ment of  the  video  source  is  usually 
the  choice  for  further  investment  once 
an  image-capture  system  is  in  place. 

A  video  image  is  normally 
generated  in  a  4:3  aspect  ratio.  This 
means  that  a  properly  operating 
camera  produces  it  in  a  format  that 
must  be  presented  on  a  screen  with 
three  units  of  height  and  four  units  of 
width.  Typical  television  sets  are  ad- 
justed to  approximately  this  ratio.  If 
the  video  signal  is  quantized  into  a 
square  array  of  square  pixels,  only  a 
portion  of  each  line  should  be  quan- 
tized. (See  figure  5.)  Because  there  are 
approximately  512  lines  of  useful 
video  image  in  a  frame  (approximate- 
ly 256  lines  in  a  field),  it  is  often  con- 
venient to  work  with  512  or  256 
squared  resolutions.  Some  manufac- 
turers of  quantizers  offer  nearly 
square  pixels  by  quantizing  during 
3/4  of  the  horizontal  period,  while 
others  offer  square  pixels  by  digitiz- 
ing the  entire  image  at  640  by  512, 
320  by  256,  or  other  resolutions.  Still 
others  offer  rectangular  pixels.  To 
achieve  square  pixels,  the  sampling 
rates  must  be  increased  by  a  factor  of 
1.33.  If  the  entire  image  is  to  be  quan- 
tized with  square  pixels,  the  memory 
requirements  must  also  be  increased 
by  a  factor  of  1.33. 


222       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


If  you  want  a  choice 

in  print  wheels, 

there's  only  one  choice 

in  printers. 


It's  the  only  printer  that  lets  you  use  either  metal  or  plastic  print  wheels.  So  you  can 
choose  the  print  wheel  that's  just  right  for  the  job. 

The  630  works  as  well  with  a  96-character  plastic  daisy  print  wheel  as  it  does  with  an 
88-,  92-,  or  96-character  metal  daisy  print  wheel.  In  over  100  different  type  styles. 

Every  630  has  fewer  moving  parts  than  competitive 
printers,  which  makes  it  more  reliable.  And  it  offers  unsurpassed  print 
quality.  Compatibility  with  Diablo  supplies.  And  bi-directional 
printing  capability. 

The  630  is  the  only  printer  in  the  world  that  uses  both  metal 
and  plastic  wheels. 

So  if  you  want  to  change  your  print  wheels,  you'll  just  have   §f 
to  change  your  printer. 

To  a  Diablo  630  printer. 


Diablo  Systems 


XEROX 


Diablo*  and  XEROX*  arc  trademarks  of  XEROX  CORPORATION. 

Circle  139  on  Inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980        223 


Circle  140  on  inquiry  card. 


Order  these 
heavy  duty  industrial 
j  boards-best  overall  specs  in 
the  industry,  finest  components  and 
workmanship,  IEEE  standard  for 
S-100  bus. 


Guaranteed  to  operate  with  Cromemco, 
North  Star  and  most  other  S-100  systems. 
All  manuals  include  applications  programs 
in  BASIC.  DIP  switch  selectable  port  base 
address. 

A/0  MODULE 

Dependable  high-speed  analog-to-digital 
conversion.  12-bit  precision.  32  single- 
ended  input  channels,  or  16  true  differen- 
tial inputs.  High-speed  sample  and  hold 
amplifier.  25  usee  conversion  time.  Preci- 
sion analog  multiplexer.  Vectored  inter- 
rupt capability.  Optional  instrumentation 
amplifier  with  gain  from  1  to  1 ,000. 
AIM-12,  standard  input  module  with 

instrumentation  amplifier  $725 

AIM-12B,  input  module  only $635 

AIM-11B,  11 -bit  precision  module  .$575 

D/A  MODULE 

Four  independent  channels  for  digital-to- 
analog  conversion.  12-bit  precision  over 
full  0°  to  70°C  range.  Jumper  selectable 
outputs.  Binary  or  2's  complement  digital 
inputs.  Flexible  bit-mapping  jumpers  allow 
compatibility  with  any  existing  I/O  mapped 
software  (either  12-  or  8-bit).  Super 
simple  programming. 
AOM-12,  output  module $495 

REAL TIME  CLOCK 

Features  new  OKI  CMOS  clock  chip  for 
day,  date,  hours,  minutes,  and  seconds. 
1 2  or  24  hour  time  format.  On-board  bat- 
tery backup.  Full  year  operation  without 
battery  replacement.  Read  or  write  time 
directly  from  I/O  port.  Vectored  interrupt 
capability. 
CLK-24  $250 

ALSO  AVAILABLE:  Industrial  control  out- 
put current  module,  4-20  mA  -  $395. 
Nonvolatile  CMOS  memory,  250  nsec,  4K 
bytes  with  battery  backup  -  $395. 
8K  CMOS  memory  -  $590. 16K  CMOS 
memory  -  $990.  Thermocouple  compen- 
sation module  -  $350. 

California;  add  6%  tax. 
Money  back  guarantee.  10-day  trial. 

OEM  and  dealer  inquiries  invited. 


system  reliability/ system  integrity 

DUAL  SYSTEMS  CONTROL  CORP. 

1825  Eastshore  Hwy.,  Dept.  B 
Berkeley,  CA  94710  (415)  549-3854 


BEGINNING    OF  EVEN  FIELD 


BEGINNING    OF  ODD  FIELD 


HORIZONTAL   RETRACE    INTERVAL- 


VERTICAL   RETRACE    INTERVAL 


Figure  3:  Video  lines  are  interlaced  in  a  2:1  ratio  to  reduce  image  flicker.  Each  frame  of  a 
video  image  (1/30  second)  is  made  up  of  two  fields.  During  the  first  1/60  second  the 
even-numbered  lines  are  scanned,  followed  by  the  odd-numbered  lines  during  the  sec- 
ond 1/60  second.  The  luminance  signal  (black-and-white  intensity)  is  indicated  by  the 
heavy  lines.  The  narrow  lines  indicate  intervals  during  which  the  electron  beam  is  off  in 
order  for  the  deflection  circuits  to  prepare  for  the  next  luminance  signal. 


WHITE 

^^^  ^^™"  ^™^"       i  nuikiAnirc         ^"^  ■* o"NL 


10.2  fit 
SYNC  PERIOD 


LUMINANCE 
-53.3  fis  - 


Figure  4:  Each  line  of  a  video  signal  is  composed  of  a  horizontal  active-line  period  (53.3 
lis),  which  contains  the  luminance  information,  and  a  sync  period  (10.2  its),  which  con- 
tains reference  levels  and  the  horizontal  sync  period. 


Noise  and  Averaging 

Video  signals,  like  all  signals,  con- 
tain noise.  It  arises  from  several 
sources,  primarily  the  circuits  which 
amplify  the  sensor  output.  Very  high 
quality  video  sources  can  have  signal- 
to-noise  ratios  exceeding  45  dB.  This 
is  approximately  equivalent  to  a  noise 
of  ±Vi  the  least-significant  bit  in 
a  7-bit  quantization.  However,  many 
inexpensive  home  cameras, 
videotape,  and  off-the-air  sources 
often  exhibit  signal-to-noise  ratios 
worse  than  25  dB  or  about  ±  Vi  the 
least-significant  bit  in  a  4-bit  quan- 
tization. Why  is  it  that  such  noisy 
video  is  still  quite  acceptable  to  a 
viewer?  The  noise  is  random;  it 
changes  every  1/30  second;  and  the 
eye  averages  out  the  noise.  If  you 
carefully  view  still  video  frames,  such 
as  on  television  sports  events,  the 
noise  becomes  apparent. 

To  improve  the  noise  figure  and  the 
quality  of  the  captured  image,  a 
number  of  frames  can  be  pointwise 
averaged.  Several  frames  are  used  to 
accomplish   this:    the   first  frame  is 


digitized  and  stored;  the  second  and 
successive  frames  are  digitized;  and 
each  value  is  added  to  the 
corresponding  stored  value.  The 
resulting  array  of  numbers  is  divided 
by  the  number  of  frames  used.  Thus, 
the  value  for  each  point  becomes  the 
average  of  digitized  values  for  that 
point  across  all  the  frames  used,  effec- 
tively cancelling  out  random  noise. 
The  improvement  can  be  quite 
dramatic  in  situations  where  con- 
siderable noise  is  present.  One  can  ex- 
pect to  achieve  about  6.3  X  log2  N  dB 
improvement  for  N  frames  up  to  a 
practical  limit  of  about  45  dB.  This 
maximum  figure  depends  on  the 
signal  source,  and  the  improvement 
depends  on  the  randomness  of  the 
noise. 

Sampling 

The  process  of  quantization  con- 
sists of  a  sampling  and  a  digitization 
phase.  The  sampling  phase  deter- 
mines exactly  when  the  signal  value  is 
to  be  frozen  in  time  so  the  instan- 
taneous value  can  be  converted  into  a 


224       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


CHRISLIN  YEARS  AHEAD  IN 
MEMORY  DESIGN 


WE'VE  DONE  IT  AGAIN  —  State  of  the  Art  Multibus®  Memory  Design.  First  to  offer  up  to  51 2K  on  one  board,  and  CHRISLIN  again  brings  pricing 
sanity  to  the  memory  market.  Why  pay  over  $2000  for  our  competitor's  64K  x  8  memory  board  when  we  will  give  you  the  CI  8086  1 28K  x  9  memory 
for  just  $1500  or  better  yet,  the  CI-8086  51 2K  x  9  memory  module  for  $4700. 

Up  to  51 2K  bytes  in  a  single  option  slot.  Available  in  64K,  96K.  1 28K,  256K,  or  51 2K  configurations.  On  board  parity  generator  checker,  for  both  8  bit 
or  16  bit  systems.  Off  shelf  deliveries. 


Ill  II  ill 

iiiiii 
ill i if 


i"U!innmmi  ■ 


B 
fill  I 


CI-6800-2  —  16KB  to  64KB.  Plugs  directly  into 
Motorola's  EXORciser  I  or  II.  Hidden  refresh  up  to  1 .5 
Mhz.  Cycle  stealing  at  2  Mhz.  Addressable  in  4K 
increments  with  respect  to  VXA  or  VUA.  On  board 
parity.  64K  x  9  $995.00. 


1111 | • J 

Mliiir'ffiaE:. 


CI-SIOO  —  16KB  to  64KB.  Transparent  hidden 
refresh.  No  wait  states  at  4  Mhz.  Compatible  with 
Alpha  Micro  and  all  Major  8080,  8085  and  Z80 
Based  S100  Systems.  Expandable  to  51 2K  bytes 
thru  Bank  Selections.  64K  x  8  $750.00. 


CI  8080  —  1 6KB  to  64KB  on  a  single  board.  Plugs 
directly  into  MDS  800  and  SBC  80/1 0.  Addressable 
in  4K  increments  up  to  64K.  16KB  $390.00.  64KB 
$750.00. 


CI- 1 1 03  —  1 6KB  to  256KB  on  a  single  dual  height 
board.  Plugs  directly  into  LSI  11/2,  H1 1  or  LSI 
1 1  /23.  Addressable  in  2K  word  increments  up  to 
256KB.  8K  x  1 6  $390.00. 32K  x  1 6  $750.00. 1 28K 
x  18  $2880.00. 


CI-6800  —  16KB  to  64KB  on  a  single  board.  On 
board  hidden  refresh.  Plugs  directly  into  EXORciser  I 
and  compatible  with  Rockwell's  System  65. 
Addressible  in  4K  increments  up  to  64K.  1 6K  x  8 
$390.00.  64K  x  8  $750.00. 


Tested  and  burned  in.  Full  year  warranty. 


DON  TASK  WHY  WE  CHARGE  SO  LITTLE,  ASK  WHY  THEY  CHARGE  SO  MUCH. 

Chrislin  Industries,  Inc. 

Computer  Products  Division 
31352  Via  Colinas  •  Westlake  Village,  CA  91362  •  213-991-2254 


Multibus  is  a  trademark  of  the  Intel  Corp. 


LSt  II  is  a  trademark  of  Digital  Equipment  Corp. 


EXORciser  is  a  trademark  of  Motorola 


Circle  141  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


225 


number  (ie:  digitized).  The  sampling 
function  is  accomplished  by 
periodically  pulsing  a  sample  circuit. 
The  value  of  the  video  signal  is  then 
used  to  charge  a  capacitor  that  holds 
that  value  during  the  time  needed  by 
the  digitizer  until  the  next  sample 
pulse.  A  sample-and-hold  circuit  pro- 
vides the  necessary  components  in 
hybrid  or  monolithic  form.  (See 
figure  6.) 

The  choice  of  sampling  rate  deter- 
mines the  spatial  resolution  with 
which  the  video  signal  is  quantized. 
The  sampling  theorem  tells  us  that  a 
sample  frequency  must  be  chosen  that 
is  at  least  twice  the  value  of  the 
highest  frequency  component  in  the 
signal  that  we  wish  to  record.  Thus  if 
we  choose  to  sample  at  10  MHz,  or 
once  every  100  ns,  we  will  be  able  to 
record  components  of  the  video 
signal  which  are  changing  at  rates  up 
to  5  MHz.  Sampling  at  this  rate 
guarantees  adequate  data  for  all  nor- 
mal black-and-white  video  sources, 
since  they  contain  very  little  energy 
beyond  4  MHz. 

Examination  of  the  sampling  pro- 
cess shows  that  if  there  are  frequency 
components  in  the  signal  above  half 
of  the  sampling  rate,  false  informa- 


tion (called  aliasing)  results.  (See 
figure  7.)  The  aliasing  component  is 
effectively  a  beat  frequency  between 
the  sampling  frequency  and  the  signal 
components  above  half  the  sampling 
frequency.  In  the  case  of  standard 
video,  the  luminance  signal  is  already 
filtered  to  roll-off  in  amplitude  above 
4  MHz.  However,  the  chrominance 
signal  in  color  video  occupies  the 
range  from  about  3  MHz  to  4.5  MHz. 

Therefore,  you  must  either  filter 
the  signal  to  remove  frequencies 
above  about  3  MHz,  derive  a  pure 
luminance  signal  from  a  properly 
designed  video  demodulator,  or  use  a 
strictly  luminance  source,  such  as  a 
black-and-white  television  camera. 
When  digitizing  at  lower  resolu- 
tions (and  sampling  at  lower  rates), 
the  signal  must  be  filtered  accord- 
ingly. 

The  quality  of  a  quantized  video 
signal  depends  on  accurate  timing.  If 
every  element  of  the  digital  image  is 
to  be  precisely  aligned  with  the  cor- 
responding element  in  the  video  lines 
above  and  below  it,  the  digitizer 
clock  must  be  precisely  synchronized 
with  the  television  horizontal-sync 
signal.  Also,  the  digitizer  clock  must 
not  drift  during   the   time  between 


PUT  TIME  AND 

BSR  CONTROL  IN 

YOUR  APPLE  II 


^3HHBHJB&j|jjjHttHJftflj^tf^ 

TM 

THUNDERCLOCK  PLUS 


AN  INTERFACE  FOR  THE  BSR  X  10 

•  Control  AC  outlets  with  your  BSR 
Command  Console  and  APPLE  II 

•  All  22  BSR  commands  at  your  pro- 
gram's fingertips 

•  Up  to  128  separate  dim/bright  levels 

•  THUNDERWARE'S  Scheduler  soft- 
ware will  control  AC  outlets  in  the 
background,  while  you  run  another 
program  in  the  foreground 

BOTH  FEATURES  ON  ONE  CARD 


A  REAL  TIME  CLOCK/CALENDAR 

•  Provides  month,  date,  day-of-week, 
hour,    minute,   and   second 

•  Software  selectable  time  formats:  24 
hour  or  AM/PM  ASCII  string,  or  as 
numeric  values 

•  Provides  interrupts  which  can  be  en- 
abled or  disabled  under  software  con- 
trol 

•  On  board  battery  allows  accurate  time- 
keeping for  up  to  2  years  even  with 
your  APPLE  turned  off 


•  Onboard  firmware  makes  the  THUNDERCLOCK  PLUS  exceptionally  easy  to  use 

•  Read  or  set  time,  control  interrupts,  and  send  BSR  commands  with  simple  BASIC 
'INPUT'  and  'PRINT'  statements 

•  Completely  APPLE  II  compatible:  INT  and  FP  BASIC  or  PASCAL  with  Unit  support 

•  At  an  affordable  introductory  price  for  both! 

THUNDERCLOCK  PLUS™ $119.00 

Clock,  BSR  interface,  and  User's  manual 

THUNDERWARE  SCHEDULER $24.95 

Diskette  with  Scheduler,  examples,  demos, 
and  Scheduler  manual 

PASCAL  SOFTWARE $19.95 

Diskette  with  PASCAL  Unit  for  clock  and 
BSR  interface 

TO  ORDER  TOLL  FREE  (VISA/MC)  CALL: 
800-227-6204  Ext.  307  (Outside  California) 
800-632-2131    Ext.  307  (California  Only) 

California  residents  add  6%  sales  tax 

BSR  X  10  is  a  trademark  of  BSR  IUSAI  LTD.    APPLE  II  is  a  trademark  of  APPLE  COMPUTER,  INC 


OR  WRITE  FOR  INFORMATION: 
THUNDERWARE  INCORPORATED 
P.O.  Box  13322,  Oakland,  CA  94661 


(a) 


THIS    AREA 
IS    IGNORED 


THIS    AREA 
IS    IGNORED 


T 

T 

(b) 


THIS    AREA 
IS    IGNORED 

I 

(cl 

Figure  5:  The  aspect  ratio  (width:height) 
of  normal  video  is  4:3.  The  aspect  ratio  of 
each  individual  pixel  is  determined  by  the 
image-sampling  rate. 

a:  This  7  by  7  square  array  of  rectangular 
pixels  is  produced  by  sampling  the  same 
number  of  points  per  line  as  there  are  lines 
in  a  frame.  For  example,  each  line  in  an 
American-standard  television  frame  (512 
lines)  would  be  scanned  as  512  points. 
b:  By  increasing  the  sampling  rate  by 
1.33,  square  pixels  result  and  a  7  by  7  ar- 
ray results  from  a  square  portion  of  the 
frame. 

c:  With  the  same  increase  in  the  sampling 
rate  as  in  b,  nearly  the  entire  frame  can  be 
quantized  into  a  9  by  7  rectangular  array 
of  square  pixek. 


226       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  142  on  Inquiry  card. 


Elegance  and  power 
in  a  mathematical 
language. 

APL 


by  Phelps  Gates 


Software  you  can  rely  on. 


Now,  a  high-level,  scientific  programming  language  that  doesn't  cost  $200  or  $300  for  the  home  computer.  This  language 
is  perfect  for  the  mathematician,  scientist,  engineer,  or  anyone  who  just  wants  to  learn  a  new  language.  The  power  of  this 
language  is  in  its  strong  mathematical  operations,  especially  with  regard  to  matrices  and  vectors.  Programs  requiring  matrix 
multiplication  or  other  matrix  problem  solving  that  would  require  hours  of  programming  time  in  BASIC  are  solved  quickly 
and  with  effort  in  APL.  Not  only  is  math  made  easy,  but  upon  gaining  proficiency  in  APL  programming  various  string 

manipulations  become  child's  play. 

To  aid  in  learning  APL,  lessons  are  included  on  the  disk.  Starting  from  the  basics,  you  are  brought  step  by  step  through  the 
various  programming  techniques  involved  with  APL.  These  lessons  act  as  a  tutor  in  a  "learning  by  doing"  atmosphere  which  will 
have  you  "talking  APL"  in  no  time.  Also  available  is  the  book,  APL:  An  Interactive  Approach,  which  reinforces  many  of  the 
examples  given  in  the  lessons.  The  book  also  provides  additional  insight  into  APL  programming. 
LIMITATIONS 

Due  to  the  absence  of  the  special  APL  character  set  on  the  TRS— 80,  APL-80  uses  shifted  letters  to  represent  the  various  APL 
characters.  These  shifted  letters  are  identified  on  the  screen  by  a  graphics  block  before  each  shifted  letter.  If  you  have  a  modified 
TRS-80  (Electric  Pencil  Modification),  a  lower  case  driver  is  included  to  display  the  shifted  letters  on  the  screen. 

In  addition  to  the  keyboard  limitations,  there  are  several  other  limitations.  Lamination,  domino,  and  matrix  inverse  are  not 
implemented  but  can  be  derived  with  user-defined  functions. 

Multiple  specifications  must  be  split  into  two  statements  unless  the  left-hand  assignment  is  to  a  quad.  This  also  applies  to  implied 
multiple  specifications. 

Reduction  and  reshape  (p)  are  not  permitted  for  empty  arguments;  the  argument  of  add/drop  may  not  be  scalar;  empty  indices 
are  not  permitted. 

A  quad  (q)  can't  be  typed  in  response  to  a  quad  (nor  can  the  name  of  a  function  which  itself  gets  input  from  a  quad).  Quote-quad 
(m)  is  permitted. 

No  more  than  32  user  functions  can  be  defined  in  a  single  workspace  and  a  function  may  not  contain  more  than  255  lines. 

A  comment  (c)  must  occupy  a  separate  line:  a  comment  can't  follow  a  function  statement  on  the  same  line. 

In  the  tape  version,  arrays  are  limited  to  five  (5)  dimensions. 
FEATURES 

APL-80  on  disk  contains  the  following  features:  )SAVE  and  )LOAD  workspace  on  disk;  )COPY  other  workspaces  into  current 
ones;  Return  to  DOS  for  directory  or  commands  without  losing  your  workspace;  Send  output  to  lineprinter;  Five  workspaces  of 
lessons  included;  Sequential  and  random  files;  15  digit  precision;  Monadic  and  dyadic  transposition;  Easy  editing  within 
FUNCTION  lines;  Latent  expression  (FUNCTION  can  "come  up  running"  when  loaded);  Tracing  of  function  execution;  Real-time 
clock;  User-control  of  random  link;  Workspace  is  25587  bytes  (in  48K  machine);  Arrays  may  have  up  to  63  dimensions. 

COMMANDS  I  APL-80 

APL-80  supports  the  following  commands:  Absolute  value,  add,  and,  assign,  branch,  catenate,  ceiling,  chr$/asc,  circular, 
combinatorial,  comment,  compress,  deal,  decode,  divide,  drop,  encode,  equal,  expand,  exponential,  factorial,  floor,  format,  grade 
down,  grade  up,  greater,  greater/equal,  index  generator,  indexing,  index  of,  inner  product,  label,  less,  less/equal,  logarithm, 
maximum,  member,  minimum,  multiply,  nand,  negate,  nor,  not,  not  equal,  or,  outer  product,  peek,  poke,  quad,  quote  quad, 
random,  ravel,  reciprocal,  reduction,  reshape,  residue,  reverse,  rotate,  scan,  shape,  sign,  system,  subtract,  take,  transposition. 

SPECIFICATIONS 

Minimum  system  requirements:  32K  disk  system  (48K  recommended)  Includes  APL-80,  Fiveworkshapesof  lessons,  instruction 
manual. 

Price:  $39.95  on  disk 

Reduced  feature:  16K  Level  II  tape  version,  no  lessons. 
Transpositions,  format,  and  inner  product  not  implemented.  Reduced  domain  for  some  functions.  6  digit  accuracy. 
Price:  $14.95  on  cassette 
APL:  An  Interactive  Approach 
Price:  $16.95  ($3.00  shipping  charge) 


The  Software  Exchange 


TO  ORDER  TOLL-FREE 

1-800-258-1790 

(In  NH  call  673-5144) 


Circle  143  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980         227 


Circle  144  on  Inquiry  card. 

SAVE  MORE  THAN  20% 

NORTH  STAR  —  INTERTUBE  —  MICROTEK 

ZENITH  —  RCA-COSMAC  —  ITHACA 

THINKER  TOYS  —  GODBOUT  —  SUPERBRAIN 

The  smartest  computers  at  the  smartest  price 


FACTORY  ASSEMBLED  &  TESTED  LIST     ONLY 

HORIZON  1  32K  DOUBLE  DEN  12695       »1994 

HORIZON  2-32K-DOUBLE  DEN  3095         2299 

HORIZON  2  32KQUAO  DENSITY  3595         2699 

HORIZON  2  64KQUAD+HARD  DISK  9329         7199 

HORIZON  MEMORY  ASSM  I6K   399  32K    579 

HORIZON  MEMORY  KIT  19K   359  32K    535 

NORTH  STAR  HARD  DISK  19  Mb  4999         3939 

PASCAL  FOR  NORTH  STAR  ON  DISK  199           190 

Powerful  NORTH  STAR  BASIC.Tha  Brat FREE 

2  NORTH  STAR  SOFTWARE  DISKS  wlHORIZON FREE 

NSSE  1  22  ft  P01  TERRIFIC  PROGRAMS  ONLY      10 

NORTHWORD        299        MAILMAN        239  INFOMAN        369 

RCA-COSMAC  VP-1 11       99            RCA-COSMAC  VP-7 11  199 

COLORI  RAINBOW     365        CAT  100      1369  SPECTRUM     289 

ITHACA  FRONT  PANEL  COMPUTER  94K  3196         2995 

Z-8001  CPU  CARD  16-bit  ITHACA  S-100  8Mb  1179 

ITHACA  MEMORY  9116-bit  64K  995           945 

SEATTLE  9098  CPU  16  bit  10  x  fnttr  556 

SEATTLE  MEMORY  811 6  BIT  16K4Mhz  356 

SSM  KITS  2-80  CPU  221                VIDEO  BRD  VB3  4Mhl  412 

MEASUREMENT  MEMORY  64K  A  ft  T  4mHz  599 

MEASUREMENT  MEMORY  64K  BANK  SELECT  799 

ECONORAM  XIV  UNKIT  16K  299           254 

CENTRAL  DATA  64K  RAM  665           599 

DISCUSI2D  A  &  T  •  CPIM  1199           975 

THINKER  TOYS  HARD  DISK  26  Mb  4995         3995 

DISCUS/2+2  1-2  Mbyte*  A  4  T  1549         1295 

TARBELL  DISK  CONTROLLER  DO  495           445 

TARBELL  CASETTE  INTERFACE  KIT  120           109 

SUPERBRAIN  2995         2395 

SUPERBRAIN  QUAD  OENSITY  3995         2995 


2995 
995 
995 

179 

795 

995 

1650 

2915 

86 

125 

79 

99 

HDS 

EZ-SO  MACHINE  LANGUAGE  TUTOR  25  STATISTICS 

EZ-CQDER  Translates  Englilb  to  BASIC  79 

ECOSOFT  FULL  ACCOUNTING  PKG  350 

BOX  OF  DISKETTES  29      IN  PLASTIC  CASE 

Which  Computers  in  BEST?  BROCHURE 

North  Star  Documentation  refundable  vWHRZ 


ZENITH  HEATH  Z  89  48K 

INTERTUBE  II  SMART  TERMINAL 

ZENITH-HEATH  SMART  TERMINAL 

ZENITH-HEATH  WH-11  16bit  COMPUTER 

CAT  NOVATION  MODEM 

MICROTEK  PRINTER 

ANADEX  PRINTER  OP-8000 

ANADEX  PRINTER  DP  9500  1 

NEC  PRINTER  Faat  Typewriter  Quality 

SECRETARY  WORD  PROCESSOR      Tha  Best! 

TEXTWRITER  III  Book  Writing  Program 

GOFAST  NORTH  STAR  BASIC  Speeder  Upper 

PDS  SUPER  Z  80  ASSEMBLER  ft  Mora 

SUPER  BASIC  DEBUGGER        189    COMPILER  135 


2495 

725 

739 

2995 

169 

675 

865 

1399 

2799 

77 

112 

71 

99 

40 

190 

71 

315 

30 

.FREE 

20 


ORDER  2  or  more  COMPUTERS. . .  .BIGGER  DISCOUNTS 
YES  WE  WILL  BEAT  OUR  COMPETITION'S  PRICEI 
FACTORY  ASSEMBLED  &  FACTORY  WARRANTY 

AMERICAN 
SQUARE  COMPUTERS 

KIVETT  DR  •  JAMESTOWN  NC  27282 
(9191-889-4577 


INPUT  Q> 


'I O  OUTPUT 


Figure  6:  An  image  is  quantized  in  two  phases:  sampling  and  digitization.  Sampling 
freezes  the  signal  value  so  that  it  can  be  converted  into  a  number  (digitized).  A  sample- 
and-hold  circuit  such  as  shown  here  performs  the  sampling  phase.  Because  of  the  low 
output  impedance  of  the  first  operational  amplifier,  the  capacitor  is  charged  nearly  in- 
stantaneously when  the  switch  is  operated  by  the  video  signal.  The  high  input  im- 
pedance of  the  second  operational  amplifier  holds  the  capacitor  at  its  full  charge  during 
the  time  the  digitizer  reads  the  signal. 


3NAL  S 


(a) 


Figure  7a:  A  correctly  sampled  video  signal.  Each  dot  indicates  an  instantaneous  value 
read  by  the  digitizer. 


RESULTING   ALIAS 


INPUT    SIGNAL    WITH 

COMPONENTS    GREATER 

THAN    1/2    SAMPLING    FREQUENCY 

(bi 


Figure  7b:  If  high-frequency  components  are  present  in  the  video  signal  which  are  above 
one-half  the  sampling  rate,  false  information  (aliasing)  results.  Aliasing  is  a  beat  fre- 
quency between  the  sampling  frequency  and  those  signal  components  above  one-half 
the  sampling  frequency.  A  low-pass  filter  is  used  to  filter  the  frequency  components  and 
eliminate  aliasing. 


horizontal-sync  pulses.  It  is  as  much 
the  attention  to  timing  as  to  the  high- 
speed technology  that  makes  quality 
digitized  video  a  reality. 

Low-Speed  Digitization 

The  digitizer,  or  A/D  (analog-to- 
digital)  converter,  is  commonly 
thought  of  as  a  device  that  takes  on 
the  order  of  20  us  to  50  us  to  deter- 
mine an  8-bit  or  12-bit  value.  Such 
converters  are  inexpensive  and  are 
adequate  for  sampling  slowly  chang- 
ing signals,  such  as  an  audio  signal. 


To  digitize  a  video  signal  with  such  a 
converter,  you  can  sample  the  signal 
no  more  often  than  about  once  per 
scan  line.  (See  figure  8.)  During  the 
first  frame,  the  first  point  of  each  line 
is  digitized.  During  the  second  frame, 
the  second  point  of  each  line  is  digi- 
tized, and  so  forth,  until  the  entire 
image  is  digitized.  If  512  samples  per 
line  are  needed,  512  frames  of  video 
would  be  required  to  digitize  every 
point.  Thus,  it  would  take  about  17 
seconds  to  complete  the  digitization 
of  one  frame.  To  do  this  the  camera 


228       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publicationa  Inc 


The  Empire  has  expanded! 


New  Mainframe  opens  more 
areas  for  development 


I  n  one  quantum  leap  Tarbell  has  expanded  its  pop- 
ular Empire  (the  vertical  disk  subsystem)  into  a  full 
line.  This  entire  series  now  encompasses  5  variations. 
Each  one  contains  different  components  so  the 
S-100  system  designer,  hobbyist,  or  serious  business 
user  can  arrive  at  the  exact  custom  state  he  wants 
and  needs. 

The  basic  Empire  still  includes  two 

Shugart  or  Siemens  8"  disk  drives; 
the  compact  cabinet  with  fan 
and  power  supply;  aTarbell  floppy 
disk  interface;  CP/M";  Tarbell 
BASIC;  the  necessary  cables,  con- 
nectors and  complete  documen- 
tation. Naturally,  it's  fully  assem- 
bled and  Tarbell  tested. 

The  new,  top  of  the  line  Empire 

contains  the  basic  model's  com- 
ponents with  the  Tarbell  design- 
approved  Mainframe.  Beside  the 
8-slot  S-100  motherboard  with  an 
active  terminated  bus,  there's  a 
cardcage  with  card  guides  and  a 
double-density  interface. 

Circle  145  on  inquiry  card. 


You're  the  master  of  your  Empire 

You  can  call  the  shots  in  the  Empire.  Tarbell's  made 
sure  of  that  by  offering  them  as  complete  subsystem 
packages ...  or,  as  separate  units.  For  example,  the 
mainframe  may  be  ordered  with  1,  2  or  no  drives. 
Whichever  way  you  go,  however,  you  always  get  the 
reliability  of  Tarbell  tested  compo- 
nents and  leadership-engineering. 

To  get  control  of  your  own  Empire, 
see  your  quality  computer  store 
for  quick  delivery.  Or,  contact  us 
for  dealer  locations  or  further  in- 
formation. 

CP/M  is  a  trademark  of  Digital  Research. 


950  Dovlen  Place  -  Suite  B 
Carson,  California,  90746 
(213)  538-4251  /  538-2254 


BYTE  November  1980 


229 


our  Elves,  Reindeer  and  Rudolph  are 
insufficient  in  the  year  2001? 
T/MAKER'S  projections  indicate 
interplanetary  vehicles  will  have  to  be 
built  in  massive  quantities  in  order  to 
satisfy  universal  demand.  Wow,  we  have 
to  start  shipping  to  Pluto  almost 
immediately. 

T/MAKER  helps  me  stay  on  top  of 
everything  by  giving  me  a  total  view  on 
my  CRT  screen.  We  just  input  the  latest 
census  figures  along  with  toy  type 
requests  and  it  goes  to  work  really  fast. 
T/MAKER  can  take  text  and  numerical 
data,  integrate  the  data  and  print  out 
hard  copy  reports  for  our  work  stations 
throughout  the  universe. 
T/MAKER  is  a  wonderful  tool  for  data 
analysis.  It  is  easy  to  set  up  calculations 
for  rows  and  columns  of  tabular  data, 
automatically  perform  the 
computations,  review  the  results  and 
then  modify  some  of  the  data  to  see  the 
impact  on  the  over  all  results.  Several 
days  of  manual  work  can  be 
accomplished  in  minutes. 
T/MAKER  is  a  full  screen  editor  for  word 
processing  which  handles  text  up  to  255 
characters  wide.  It  includes  features  like 
text  formating  and  justification,  text 
buffer  for  block  moves  and  repeated 
inserts,  global  search  and  replace  and 
commands  for  printing  your  letters, 
reports  and  document. 
T/MAKER  can  perform  an  unlimited 
number  of  analysis  and  reporting  tasks 
which  integrate  numerical  and  text 
processing.  For  example: 

•  Financial  Statements  •  Balance  Sheets 

•  Statistics  •  Growth  &  Projections  • 
Profitability  Reports  •  Revenues  & 
Expenditures  •Portfolio  Analysis 'Price 
Lists  •  Rate  Structures  •  Inventory 

Valuation and  much,  much  more. 

T/MAKER  requires  a  48K  CP/M  system, 
a  total  of  240K  bytes  of  disk  storage, 
CBASIC-2,  and  a  CRT  computer 
terminal  with  cursor  addressing  and 
clear  screen. 

T/MAKER  system  is  $275.00  complete 
with  documentation  and  quick- 
reference  card. 
Documentation  alone  is  $25.00. 


LIFEBOAT 
ASSOCIATES 

1651  Third  Ave.  NY,  NY  10028 
(212)  860-0300 
International  Telex  220501 

T/MAKER  is  a  trademark 
of  P.  Roizen 
CP/M  is  a  trademark 
of  Digital  Research 


-512    SAMPLES- 


NEEDED    PER    SCAN    LINE. 


DIGITIZER    HAS    63    MICROSECONDS 


THE    SAME    SAMPLE    POSITION 
IS    SELECTED    FOR    EVERY 
SCAN    LINE    ON    EACH    FRAME 
EFFECTIVELY     DIGITIZING 
ONE    COLUMN    OF    THE    IMAGE 
DURING    EACH    FRAME 


Figure  8:  By  sampling  a  single  point  per  scan  line,  the  digitization  of  each  pixel  can  be 
completed  within  63  us,  and  data  is  produced  at  a  slow  enough  rate  (15. 7  k  bytes/se- 
cond) for  transfer  to  mass  storage. 


DATA  READY    f_3> 


DATA   IN  f_2> 


DATA  CLOCK  ADDRESS 

32  K    8-BIT    BYTES    OF   SEMICONDUCTOR  MEMORY 


Figure  9:  Through  the  use  of  a  shift  register,  standard  programmable  memory  can  be 
used  to  transfer  a  single-bit  image  at  video  rates.  If  a  single  bit  is  deposited  into  the  shift 
register  every  100  ns,  an  8-bit  value  can  be  deposited  into  memory  every  800  ns.  The 
same  process  can  be  reversed  for  displaying  the  image. 


must  be  stationary  on  a  tripod  with 
respect  to  the  object  being  viewed  to 
keep  the  image  stable.  Tape  players 
with  freeze-frame  options  might  seem 
attractive  for  this  purpose.  However, 
home  videotape  machines  do  not  pro- 
duce a  truly  stable  image  and  are  not 
usually  adequate  for  this  purpose. 

The  digitizer  has  plenty  of  time  to 
produce  a  digital  value.  Precision  is 
defined  by  the  number  of  quantiza- 
tion levels,  and  more  can  be  obtained 
for  a  small  additional  cost.  Unfor- 
tunately, the  sample  circuitry  must 
sample  a  very  precise  portion  of  the 
video  signal,  and  its  accuracy 
becomes  more  important  if  greater 
quantization  levels  are  desired.  Ad- 
ditionally, the  decay  rate  of  the  sam- 
ple circuitry  becomes  important 
because  the  sample  must  be  held  for 
up    to    50    jis    versus    the    100    ns 


necessary  for  the  high-speed  digitiza- 
tion technique. 

The  advantages  of  slow  digitization 
are  the  use  of  a  relatively  inexpensive 
A/D  converter  and  low  data  rates, 
permitting  direct  storage  of  the  data 
using  floppy  disks.  The  disadvan- 
tages are  the  need  to  hold  the  camera 
and  scene  stable  for  a  length  of  time 
(depending  on  resolution)  and  the  in- 
ability to  capture  other  video  sources, 
such  as  television  programs  and 
videotape.  The  requirements  for  the 
sampling  phase  are  also  more  sub- 
stantial than  those  for  the  high-speed 
method. 

There  is  a  hidden  disadvantage  of 
the  low-speed  method.  The  stored  im- 
age cannot  be  readily  viewed  by 
reversing  the  process.  The  only  way 
to  reproduce  the  data  in  image  form  is 
to  place  a  photographic  camera  in 


230       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Settle  for  More 
from  Trbor  TRS-80 


BASIC  Compiler,  with  trs-so  basic 

Compiler,  your  Level  II  BASIC  programs  will  run  at 
record  speeds!  Compiled  programs  execute  an 
average  of  3-10  times  faster  than  programs  run 
under  Level  II.  Make  extensive  use  of  integer 
operations,  and  get  speeds  20-30  times  faster 
than  the  interpreter. 

Best  of  all,  BASIC  Compiler  does  it  with  BASIC, 
the  language  you  already  know.  By  compiling 
the  same  source  code  that  your  current  BASIC 
interprets,  BASIC  Compiler  adds  speed  with  a 
minimum  of  effort. 

And  you  get  more  BASIC  features  to  program 
with,  since  features  of  Microsoft's  Version  5.0 
BASIC  Interpreter  are  included  in  the  package. 
Features  like  the  WHILE  .  .  WEND  statement,  long 
variable  names,  variable  length  records,  and  the 
CALL  statement  make  programming  easier.  An 
exclusive  BASIC  Compiler  feature  lets  you  call 
FORTRAN  and  machine  language  subroutines 
much  more  easily  than  in  Level  II. 

Simply  type  in  and  debug  your  program  as 
usual,  using  the  BASIC  interpreter.  Then  enter  a 
command  line  telling  the  computer  what  to 
compile  and  what  options  to  use. 

Voila!  Highly  optimized,  Z-80  machine  code 
that  your  computer  executes  in  a  flash!  Run  it  now 
or  save  it  for  later.  Your  compiled  program  can  be 
saved  on  disk  for  direct  execution  every  time. 

Want  to  market  your  programs?  Compiled  ver- 
sions are  ideal  for  distribution*  You  distribute  only 
the  object  code,  not  the  source,  so  your  genius 
stays  fully  protected. 

BASIC  Compiler  runs  on  your 
TRS-80  Model  I  with  48K  and  disk 
drive.  The  package  includes 
BASIC  Compiler,  linking  loader 
and  BASIC  library  with  complete 
documentation.  $195.00. 


MORE 
FROM 


MICROSOFT 


'Microsoft  royalty  information  for 
the  sale  of  programs  compiled 
with  BASIC  Compiler  is  available 
from  Microsoft. 


n 


j 


muMflXH  Symbolic  Math  System 

expands  your  TRS-80  beyond  the  limits  of  numeri- 
cal evaluation  to  a  much  higher  level  of  math 
sophistication. 

Symbolic  mathematics  is  muMATH's  power.  For 
the  first  time,  algebra,  trigonometry,  calculus, 
integration,  differentiation  and  more  can  be  per- 
formed on  a  system  smaller  than  an  IBM  370.  And 
in  a  fraction  of  the  time  you  could  do  them 
manually. 

Yet  for  all  its  power,  muMATH  is  simple  to  use. 
To  perform  a  differentiation  you  could  enter: 
?DIF(A*XT3  +  SIN(XT2),X); 

In  almost  no  time,  the  computer  would  reply 
with:  @2*X*COS(XT  2)  +  3*A*X  f  2. 

Or  to  add  fractions:  ?1/3  +  5/6  +  2/5  +  3/7; 
The  instantaneous  answer:  419/210. 
Or  to  perform  a  more  difficult  trigonometric 
expansion  you  enter:  SIN(2*Y)*(4*COS(X)T3-COS 
(3*X)  +  SIN  rY)*(COS(X+Y+#PI]  -  COS(X-Y)); 

Just  a  few  seconds  later,  the  computer  replies: 
@4*SIN(Y)*COS(X)*COS(Y). 

muMATH  has  virtually  infinite  precision  with  full 
accuracy  up  to  611  digits. 

If  you  use  math,  you'll  find  countless  ways  to  save 
time  and  effort  with  muMATH.  It's  a  professional 
tool  for  engineers  and  scientists.  A  learning  tool 
for  students  at  any  level  from  algebra  to  calculus. 
And  if  you  want  to  expand  your  capabilities 
even  beyond  the  standard  muMATH,  the  option  is 
open.  muSIMP,  the  programming  language  in 
which  muMATH  is  written,  is  included  in  the  muMATH 
package.  A  superset  of  the  lan- 
guage LISP,  muSIMP  is  designed 
especially  for  interactive  symbolic 
mathematics  and  other  artificial 
intelligence  applications. 

muMATH    and    muSIMP   were 

written   by  The  Soft  Warehouse, 

Honolulu,  Hawaii.  Priced  at  $74.95, 

the  package  includes  muMATH, 

muSIMP  and  a  complete  manual. 

It  requires  a  Model  I  TRS-80  with 

32K  and  single  disk.  muMATH 

for  the  Apple  II  Computer  will 

be  available  later  this  year. 


1 


You  can  buy  muMATH  and  BASIC  Compiler  at  computer  stores  across  the  country  that  carry  Microsoft 
products.  If  your  local  store  doesn't  have  them,  call  us.  206-454-1315.  Or  write  Microsoft  Consumer 
Products,  400  108th  Ave.,  NE,  Suite  200,  Bellevue,  WA  98004. 


CONSUMERS  PRODUCTS 


Circle  146  on  Inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980         231 


VIDEO       I — ->_ 
INPUT       ' 


SAMPLE 

AND 

HOLD 


DIGITIZER 


SYNC 
REGEN- 
ERATOR 


CLOCK 


COUNT- 
ERS 


ADDRESS 


VIDEO   OUT 
FOR    DISPLAY 

Figure  10:  Block  diagram  of  an  image-quantization  system.  In  this  example,  a  single  memory  board  is  used  for  each  bit  of  quantiza- 
tion. Four  boards  would  be  needed  for  a  4-bit  quantization. 

front  of  a  television  monitor  and 
open  the  shutter  for  17  seconds  while 
the  data  are  converted  back  into 
video,  one  point  per  line.  Then,  of 
course,  the  film  must  be  processed: 
this  is  hardly  conducive  to  interactive 
use. 


afriirmin 


We  know  you  hardcore  bit  hack- 
ers will  recognize  the  computing 
power  derived  from  combining  the 
FORTH  language  with  the  6809, 
today's  most  advanced  8  bit 
microprocessor. 

And  we  know  you'll  understand 
this  machine's  16  bit  math,  indirect 
addressing  and  two  stacks  are 
ideally  suited  for  implementing 
FORTH. 

But. ..should  anyone  need  further 
convincing  that  FORTH  provides  a 
new  dimension  in  power,  speed 
and  ease  of  operation,  consider 
the  following: 

•  It's  a  modern,  modular,  structured- 
programming  high-level  com- 
piled language, 

•  It's  a  combined  interpreter, 
compiler,  and  operating  system. 

•  It  permits  assembler  code  level 
control  of  machine,  runs  near 
speed  of  assembler  code,  and 
uses  less  memory  space  than 
assembler  code. 

•  It  increases  programmer  produc- 
tivity and  reduces  memory  hard- 
ware requirements. 

Call  or  write  today. 


•  It  replaces  subroutines  by 
individual  words  and  related 
groups  of  words  called 
Vocabularies.  These  are  quickly 
modified  and  tested  by  editing 
1024-character  text  blocks,  called 
screens,  using  built-in  editor. 

tFORTH  is  a  basic  system  imple- 
mented for  SS-50  buss  6809  systems 
with  the  TSC  FLEX  9.0  disk  oper- 
ating system.  It  is  available  on  514" 
or  8"  single  density  soft-sectored 
floppy  disks.  $100.00 

tFORTH  +  consists  of  tFORTH  plus  a 
complement  of  the  following 
FORTH  source  code  vocabularies: 
full  assembler,  cursor  controlled 
screen  editor,  case  statements, 
extended  data  types,  general  I/O 
drivers.  $250.00 

firmFORTH  is  an  applications  pack- 
age for  use  with  tFORTH.  It  provides 
for  recompilation  of  the  tFORTH 
nucleus,  deletion  of  superfluous 
code  and  production  of  fully 
rommable  code.  $350.00 


KEN  YON 1 

= MICROSYSTEMS 


Circle  147  on  Inquiry  card. 

Also  available  for  6800 


3350  Walnut  Bend,  Houston,  Texas  77042  •  (713)978-6933 


High-Speed  Digitization 

If  we  want  to  digitize  512  points 
during  each  scan  line,  the  converter 
must  operate  at  very  high  speeds.  The 
active  portion  of  a  video  line  is  about 
53  /is.  Roughly,  this  means  it  must 
quantize  the  signal  once  every  100  ns. 
Such  converters  were  available  10 
years  ago  for  about  $2000,  but  today 
they  can  be  built  for  less  than  $100! 
Next  I'll  examine  the  problems  of 
storing  the  data  produced  at  this  rate. 

Most  home  computers  have  central 
memory  that  can  be  cycled  at  about 
250  ns  to  1000  ns  per  8-bit  transfer.  If 
the  digitizer  obtains  one  4-bit  quanti- 
ty every  100  ns  (at  512  samples  per 
line  with  rectangular  pixels),  or  8  bits 
every  200  ns,  standard  computer 
memory  cannot  cope  with  the  speed 
requirement.  Most  experimenters 
own  configurations  with  32  K  bytes 


How  much  vigorous 
activity  does  your 
child  get  each  day 
at  school? 
If  you  don't  know, 
find  out. 

To  do  better  in  the  classroom  now,  to  be  fit 
and  healthy  later  in  life,  children  need  at 
least  one  school  period  a  day  of  physical 
education.  But  most  schools  are  not  providing 
this.  And  many  schools  require  none  at  all. 

Send  for  our  free  checklist  and  find  out 
how  your  schools  score.  Then,  do  something 
about  it. 

Write  Checklist,  President's  Council  on 
Physical  Fitness  and  Sports,  Washington, 
D.C. 20201. 


As  the  Western  United  States'  largest 
distributor  of  SuperBrain®  hardware  and  soft- 
ware, 

WE  WILL  NOT  BE  UNDERSOLD 
BY  ANY  ADVERTISED  PRICE! 

Huge  volume  purchases  for  national  and 
international  marketing  gives  us  the  chance 
to  get  you  rock  bottom  prices  from  the  fac- 
tory. 

Our  SuperBrain®  prices  are  the  lowest  in 
the  country,  and  our  assistance  in  hardware 
and  software  information  will  be  pleasant  and 
helpful  at  all  times. 


SOFTWARE. 

CBasic 


PROGRAM  LANGUAGES. 


MBasic 


Accounts  Receivable 
Accounts  Payable 
General  Ledger 
Payroll 
Inventory 

Restaurant  Payroll 
Job  Costing 
Mailing  List 
Word  Processing 
"Magic  Wand" 


$250.00 
250.00 
250.00 
250.00 
250.00 
250.00 
250.00 
150.00 
195.00 
325.00 


C  Basic 
M  Basic 
Fortran 
Cobol 


AND  MORE. 


Model  88T  Impact  Matrix  Printer 

'Other  Printers  Available: 
T-l  810 
Anadex 
Diablo 
•NEC 
Qume  I 


595.00! 


Dealer  Inquiries  Invited. 

Circle  148  on  inquiry  card. 


COMPUTER 
|  MARKETING 

CORPORATOR 

Computer  Marketing  Corporation 
116  South  Mission 
Wenatchee,  WA  98801 
(509)  663-1626 


or  less  of  central  memory.  Although 
32  K  bytes  would  be  barely  sufficient 
for  a  256  by  256  4-bit  image,  128  K 
bytes  are  necessary  for  a  512  by  512 
4-bit  image.  Therefore,  memory  is 
usually  dedicated  to  the  image- 
storage  function  and  accessed  by  the 
computer  through  either  a  processor- 
controlled  or  DMA  (direct-memory 
access)  port. 


The  problem  of  providing  large 
memories  capable  of  200  ns  cycle 
times  can  be  solved  by  the  sequential 
nature  of  data  transfers.  By  dividing 
memory  into  a  number  of  parallel 
segments  it's  possible  to  use  memories 
with  800  ns  read/write-cycle  times  to 
simultaneously  digitize,  display,  and 
communicate  with  the  computer. 

Proper    memory     organization 


,£■— I  START 
^ — '  CONVERT 


REFERENCE 
VOLTAGE 


END    OF 
CONVERSION 

SIGNAL 


Figure  11:  The  configuration  of  a  conventional  A/D  converter. 


allows  ease  of  expansion,  depending 
on  whether  higher  spatial  resolution 
or  more  bits  per  picture  element  are 
anticipated  in  the  future.  Also,  good 
designs  can  be  software-reconfigured 
to  trade  off  spatial  resolution  for  the 
number  of  bits  per  pixel.  Methods  for 
reconfiguration  are  left  for  the  am- 
bitious designers  to  discover  on  their 
own. 

A  Hypothetical  Design 

Assume  that  we'll  require  a  512  by 
512  image  with  4-bit  quantization  of 
each  pixel.  Memory  is  physically 
organized  as  four  32  K-byte  memory 
boards.  This  is  because  there  are 
256  K  points  in  the  image,  and  we 
wish  to  have  1  bit  of  each  4-bit  pixel 
value  on  each  memory  board.  We 
will  use  memory  which  transfers  8-bit 
quantities. 

If  we  shift  1  bit  every  100  ns  into  a 
serial-in,  parallel-out  shift  register, 
then  every  800  ns  the  resulting  8-bit 
value  can  be  deposited  into  memory. 
(See  figure  9.)  The  same  process  can 
be  reversed  for  real-time  display.  To 
do  so,  the  memory  is  read  every  800 
ns,  the  8-bit  value  is  placed  into  a 
parallel-in,  serial-out  shift  register, 
and  shifted  out  at  100  ns  per  pixel. 


FEATURES  INCLUDE: 

•  Uses     Standard     Typewriter     Ribbon 
(Model  101B-80) 

•  Built-in  Power  Supply 

•  5  x  7  Dot  Matrix  Character  Generator  or 
10  x  7  or  10  x  14  Dot  Matrix 

•  Standard  96  ASCII  Character  Font 

•  Upper  and  Lower  Case  Printing 

•  Up  to  88  Characters  Per  Line 

•  Single  Line  Print  Rate  Is 

"110/160  CPS 

•  Average  Print  Rate  Is 

**55/60  CPS  For  Ten  Lines 

•  Graphics    Capability    With     Extended 
Character  Modes 

•  Programmable  With  32  System   Level 
Software  Commands 

•  Standard  Parallel  and  Serial  Interface 

•  Reset  Interface 

•  Baudrate  Select  From  110  to  9600 

•  Manual  Paper  Advance  (Model  101 B-80) 

•  Manual  Selftest 

•  Adjustable  Tractor  Width  From  1  to  91/? 
Inches  (Model  101  B-80) 

"Model  101A-40  &  7078-80  Respectively 


80  COLUMN  LOW  COST  IMPACT  PRINTER 


$495  Kit,  101B-80KE        $545  Assembled  &  Tested  101B-80E 


COOSOL,  INC.      P.O.  BOX  743,  ANAHEIM,  CA  92805  (714)  545-2216     7  Days  a  Week 


234       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Iik: 


Circle  149  on  inquiry  card. 


5,000,000  Reasons  to  replace 
your  5-inch  Floppies  with  a 
low-cost,  high-performance 

HarcbDisk. 


E 


2 
a. 


5  megabytes  Instantly  expand  the  program  and  data  storage 
horizons  on  your  H-89,  TRS-80,  or  s-100  microcomputer  system. 


c  Just  slip  5  megabytes  of  on-line  data  storage 
into  place  in  your  standard  5-inch  floppy  disk 
openings,  and  suddenly  your  capability  horizons 
have  dramatically  shifted,  upwards,  now  your 
CP/M*  S-100  microcomputer  system,  or  H-89 
Heathklt  (HDOS  or  cpm  2.2)  computer  system  can 
utilize  the  kind  of  high-reliability  and  rapid- 
access  mass  storage  which  today's  sophisticated 
programming  demands,  da  company  named 
ACT  has  created  a  complete  package  at  a  price  so  good,  you 
couldn't  walk  away  from  It.  The  5-inch  package  includes  the 
remarkable  Shugart  Technology  ST  506  hard-disk  drive  with  6.3 
megabytes  of  unformatted  mass  storage  and  a  micro-sequencing 
controller  card  with  complete  floppy  dlsk-iike  Interfacing.  Hard- 
disks  have  never  been  more  affordable,  if  you  are  wondering 
Just  how  these  ultra-fast,  high  throughput  hard-disk  drives  will 
work  with  your  multi-terminal  or  real-time, 
transaction  oriented  systems:  now  you  can  get  L 
some  straight  answers.  Clip  and  mail  the  coupon  Hf^5*^  V 
for  quick  response  to  all  your  questions.  OrP 
better  yet,  give  us  a  call  today  at  (703)  471-6288 
for  some  no-nonsense  reasons  why  your  system 
needs  to  act  now.  Quantity  pricing  Is  available 
to  meet  the  needs  of  Original  Equipment! 
Manufacturers;  check  the  box  on  the  coupon. 


American  Computer 
and  Telecommunications 
Corporation 


Circle  150  on  Inquiry  card. 

Clip  and  mail  coupon  to: 

11301  Sunset  Hills  Road 
Suite  A-4,  Reston,  VA  22090 
[703)471-6288 


Tell  me  more  about  the  ACT 
5-Inch  hard-disk  drive 
package: 

My  present  5-inch  hard-disk  drive 
interests  center  around: 

□  S-100  Microcomputer  Systems 

□  H-89  Heathkit  Computer  Systems 

□  TRS-80  Radio  Shack  Computer 
Systems 

D    Send  me  quantity  price  schedule 

Name 

Title    

Company   

Address 

City,  State, 
Phone  ( 


Zip. 


REFERENCE 
VOLTAGE 

•} 

COMPARATORS 


SIGNAL    I — v, 
INPUT       I 


>  OUTPUT 


Figure  12:  The  small  number  of  bits  required  for  image  quantization  makes  flash  (or 
parallel)  A/D  conversion  practical  One  comparator  is  used  for  each  quantization  level. 
For  a  4-bit  quantization,  sixteen  comparators  would  be  needed.  A  reference  voltage 
equal  to  full  scale  is  fed  to  a  voltage  divider  to  form  a  set  of  comparator  thresholds.  The 
output  of  each  comparator  is  then  fed  to  the  encoder,  where  the  number  of  on  com- 
parators is  converted  into  a  binary  output.  Parallel  converters  are  available  in  DIP  form 
and  allow  for  high  data-conversion  rates. 


HEATH  KIT® 

computer  products  and  Zenith  Data  Systems  get  even  better 
when  you  subscribe  to  Buss:  The  Independent  Newsletter  of 
Heath  Co.  Computers.  Buss  spreads  the  latest  news  of 
compatible  hardware  and  software  from  many  vendors.  The 
newsletter  is  not  affiliated  with  any  of  these  and  does  not 
depend  on  income  from  ads.  So  Buss  has  to  please  only  its 
subscribers — over  2900  of  them. 

Readers'  candid  reports  of  their  discoveries  save  other 
subscribers  headaches— and  money.  Innovations  published  in 
Buss  have  included  hardware  modifications  and  software 
fixes.  And,  since  it  is  not  a  company-controlled  publication, 
Buss  can  deal  with  both  the  weaknesses  and  strengths  of 
Heath  Co.  Computer  products. 

Buss  is  a  proven  newsletter  that  keeps  getting  better— it's 
been  published  since  April  1977.  If  you  subscribe  this  month 
you'll  receive  a  free  directory  of  over  50  suppliers  of 
hardware  and  software  for  Heathkit®  computers  and  Zenith 
Data  Systems.  You  have  the  choice  of  starting  your  Buss 
subscription  with  the  latest  issue  or  available  back  issues 
(about  14).  All  this  information  will  be  mailed  first  class  (by 
air  mail  overseas).  Full  refund  guaranteed  if  you're  not 
satisfied.  Payment  must  be  in  U.S.  dollars  payable  on  a  U.S. 
bank  or  by  Master  Charge  or  Visa. 
Issues:  12  18  24 

U.S.  &  Canada        $17.98  $24.75  $29.95 

Overseas  25.00  30.00  35.00 

Buss,  325-B  Pennsylvania  Ave.,  S.E.,  Washington,  DC  20003 


To  achieve  the  desired  number  of 
quantization  bits  per  pixel,  we  stack 
the  appropriate  number  of  memory 
boards.  (See  figure  10.)  In  our  case, 
four  boards  would  be  needed  for  4-bit 
pixels.  Of  course,  there  would  have 
to  be  an  address  bus  common  to  all 
boards  and  an  extra  board  to  provide 
control  and  A/D  conversion.  The  ex- 
tra board  would  be  needed  to  decode 
the  video  sync  signals  to  keep 
memory-addressing  in  step  with  the 
video  signal.  Additionally,  D/A 
(digital-to-analog)  conversion  and 
sync  generation  are  necessary  to  drive 
a  display  monitor. 

Notice  that  the  memory  is  running 
at  very  slow  speeds  by  modern  stan- 
dards. If  we  use  memory  that  allows 
two  operations  per  800  ns,  the  com- 
puter can  access  or  deposit  data  com- 
pletely transparent  to  the  digitization 
or  display  process. 

Now  consider  high-speed  A/D  con- 
verters. Normal  converters  use  a  D/A 
converter,  a  programmer,  and  a  com- 
parator to  derive  a  numerical  quanti- 
ty representing  the  voltage  on  the  in- 
put. (See  figure  11.)  The  programmer 
tries  successive  numbers,  generating 
successive  voltages  out  of  the  D/A 
converter.  These  voltages  are  com- 
pared with  the  analog  input  to  deter- 
mine if  they  are  above  or  below  the 
input  voltage.  The  comparator  out- 
put is  used  by  the  programmer  to 
decide  what  number  to  try  next  until 
the  process  converges  on  a  final 
value. 

The  fastest  A/D  programs  take 
about  as  many  tries  as  there  are  bits 
of  quantity.  Each  try  consumes  as 
much  time  as  the  total  of  the  pro- 
grammer gate  delay,  the  D/A-gate 
delay,  the  D/A-settling  time,  and  the 
comparator-settling  time.  The  fastest 
converters  perform  conversion  on  the 
order  of  the  100  ns  per  bit.  This  is  ob- 
viously unacceptable  for  our  pur- 
poses, since  we  consider  4  bits  to  be  a 
minimum  quantization  and  100  ns  to 
200  ns  to  be  a  maximum  conversion 
time. 

The  small  number  of  bits  that  are 
required  does  make  another  conver- 
sion technique  very  practical.  It  has 
several  names,  the  most  popular  be- 
ing flash  or  parallel  conversion.  It 
consists  of  one  comparator  for  each 
quantization  level,  or  sixteen  com- 
parators for  4  bits.  (See  figure  12.)  A 
reference  voltage  equal  to  full  scale  is 
fed  to  a  voltage  divider  (ie:  a  network 
of  resistors)  to  form  a  set  of  com- 
parator thresholds,  and  the  outputs 


236        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  151  on  inquiry  card. 


TO  ORDER  CALL  (212)  687-5000 


SUPE 


INTE3TEC 
DMA 
SY5TEMS 
64K 

ONLY 

$2995 

32K  $2795 


4  i»  :it 


COLICS 


NEW  80 
.COLUMN 

\CBW 


More  than  an  intelligent  terminal,  the  SuperBrain  outperforms  many  other 
systems  costing  three  to  five  times  as  much.  Endowed  with  a  hefty  amount  of 
available  software  (BASIC.  FORTRAN,  COBOL),  the  SuperBrain  is  ready  to 
take  on  your  toughest  assignment.  You  name  it!  General  Ledger,  Accounts 
Receivable,  Payroll,  Inventory  or  Word  Processing,  .the  SuperBrain  handles 
all  of  them  with  ease  FEATURES  INCLUDE: 

•  2  dual-density  minifloppies  with  360K  bytes  of  disk  storage  •  A  CP/M  Disk 
Operating  System  with  a  high-powered  text  editor,  assembler  and  debugger. 


Model  QD 

720K  Bytes  disk  storage 
and  B4K  RAM 

$3895 


SUPER  BRAIN  HARD  DISKS 


10  Megabyte 

$3995 


plus  $11 95 


NEW  AMPEX 
HARD  DISK 

5  Fixed 
5  Removable 
!  Only  $5995 

APPLE  I 

A  complete  self-contained  computer  system  with  APPLESOFT  floating  point 
BASIC  in  ROM.  full  ASC  1 1  keyboard  in  a  light  weight  molded  carrying  case 

Features  Include: 

•  auto-start  ROM  •  Hi-Res  graphics  and  15  color  video  output 

•  Expandable  to  48K 

Supertalker $279  Micromodem $379 

Disk 595  Superterm  (24  x  80) 395 

Add-on  Disk 495  Speechlab 229 

Pascal  Card 495  Communication  Card ... .  225 

Business  Software 625  Modem 200 

Monitor 159  Graphics  Printer 595 

Printer  Card 180  Graphics  Tablet 795 


[apple// 

IS  FINALLY  HERE 

128KRAMM 


FOR  BEST 
DELIVERY  AND 
SUPPORT  SEE 
IT  AT  THE 
COMPUTER 
FACTORY 


Basic  4.0 

Operating 
System 


•  80  column  by  25  line  display 

•  12"  CRT 

•  New  screen  editor 

•  Split  screen  processing 

•  Super  fast  string  handling 

•  15  additional  basic  commands 

•  Supports  relative  record  processing 

Model  8016      Model  8032 

16K  memory         32K  memory 


Commodore  Computer 

These  low  cost  Commodore  PET  Business 
Computers  have  virtually  unlimited  business 
capabilities.  Accounts  Receivable,  Inventory 

ecords.  Payroll,  ana       /—**■—• 
„ther  accounting  / 

functions.  /      5:  ;?  $)M  >:j? 

PET  16N  &  32N / 
COMPUTERS      J 


'  16  or  32.000 
Bytes  Memory 

i  Level  III 
Operating 
System     ,- 

1  Full  Scree 
Editor 


$1495, 


,$1795 


NEW  8050  DUAL  DISK 

1  million  bytes  on-line  storage 

and  DOS  2.0  operating  system 

•  Supports  relative  record  (Random  Access) 

•  Faster  more  reliable       on|y   $1695 

CENTRONICS  704 

cps  Bi-Directional  •  Up  to15" 
"aper  Width  •  9  x  9  Matrix 
•  Upper/Lower  Case 

•  Tractor  Feed 

•  RS-232 
Serial  Interface 

$1895 

List  $2500 
CENTRONICS  700-9 

$1  295  List  $1895 

•  60  cps  •  Up  to  15"  paper  width 

•  Tractor  Feed  •  Parallel  Interface 
for  Apple  &  TRS-80  •  2  channel 
vertical  forms!  •  Top  of  Form! 

CENTRONICS(Letter  quality) 
737  Serial  $995 
737  Parallel  $965 

CENTRONICS 

730  Serial  $775 
730  Parallel  $745 


PERIPHERALS 


PET  DUAL 
FLOPPY  DISK 

•  Stores  360.0C0 
Bytes  on-line 

1    •  Microprocessor 
controlled 

•  Uses  single  or 
dual  sided  floppies 

HI-SPEED  PRINTER 
.       •  150  cnaracters  per 
second  •  Up  to  4 
copies  8"  wide 
•  Microprocessor 
Controlled  •  Prints 
All  Graphics  •  Full 
Formatting  Capability 


DIP-8lBIDIRECT^n 

MATRIX  PRINTER 


•  Centronics 
interface 

•  Serial  add  $50 

•  Ribbon  cartridge| 

•  Up  to  4  copies 

•  80  column 


Anderson  jacobson     Parallel 

841  I/O  Terminal  Ideal  for    $  1 1 30 
■*■  word  processing  and        _     .   . 
small  businesses.         o6N3l 

ASCII  Code  $1230 

15  CPS  Printout       * 
High  Quality  Selectric  Printing 
Reliable  heavy  duty  mechanisml 
Completely  Refurbished  by  A.J.r 
Delivered  FREE  to  nearest  service  center  I 


iBjiiljll.il      II>»IW  ii  »»»»■»  ■■!»! 

■ •     ...     .  ,'.  ':.." ': 


■i  ;.■  ■:;!:■ nil'; :.;...;::::-:...:  iiiiIiiiiik:  iv; i      i ;-  -  *  ...i  : ;    . 

"W'TTSTV 


XEROX  1730 

Letter  Quality  Printer 

List  $2755  Special  $2495 

•  40  Cps  90  Day  On  Site  Warranty 

•  Uses  all  100  metal  &  plastic  daisy  wheels 

•  Automatic  bidirectional  printing 

•  Fewer  moving  parts 


XYIYIEC  HQ  1000 

with  10,  12,  15  Pitch  & 
Proportional  Spacing 

1  Z-80  controlled        <tO/IQC 
1  Up  to  198  columns  S^fi^O 


Min. Credit  Card  Order  $75 

N  Y    residents  add  8%  sales  tax 

•  Same  day  shipment  on  prepaid  and 

credit  card  orders 


/  TO  ORDER  CALL  (212)  687-5000  M<,S,o.6  s«  ,,-s 

The  COMPUTER  FACTORY  miMT^J?£r;£Z»r°LlM*') 


The  Nature  of  Video  Images 

The  video  standard  has  three 
primary  components,  synchroni- 
zation signals,  a  luminance  (black- 
and-white)  signal,  and  a 
chrominance  (color)  signal.  The 
synchronization  (sync)  signals  tell 
the  receiver  when  to  begin  a  new 
frame  and  a  new  line.  The 
luminance  signal  provides  intensi- 
ty values  that  comprise  a  picture. 
The  signals  are  effectively 
separate,  allowing  compatibility 
between  color  and  black-and- 
white  television  receivers.  Our 
primary  interest  here  is  the 
luminance  signal,  but  the 
chrominance  signal  must  still  be 
considered.  It  must  be  filtered  out 
of  a  color  video  signal  before 
quantization.  (The  reason  for  this 
requirement  has  been  described  in 
the  section  on  sampling.) 

Each  complete  picture,  called  a 


frame,  takes  1/30  second  to  com- 
plete. To  reduce  flicker,  2:1  in- 
terlacing is  used.  During  the  first 
1/60  second,  the  even-numbered 
lines  are  displayed;  and  during  the 
second  1/60  second,  the  odd- 
numbered  lines  are  displayed.  Each 
set  of  lines  (half  of  the  frame)  is 
called  a  field.  (See  figure  3.) 

Each  field  consists  of  262.5  lines, 
each  line  transmitted  in  63.5  us. 
Nine  of  these  lines  are  used  for  the 
vertical  synchronization  pulse, 
which  is  actually  a  series  of  pulses 
that  are  easy  for  receiver  circuits  to 
recognize.  Each  line  is  composed  of 
a  horizontal  active-line  period  dur- 
ing which  luminance  information 
is  present,  and  a  sync  period  when 
reference  levels  and  the  horizontal 
sync  signal  are  present.  The 
horizontal  active  period  is  53.3  its, 
and  the  sync  period  is  10.2  (is.  (See 
figure  4.) 


Attention  TRS-80  Mod  II  owners: 
P&T  CP/M®  2  has  more  to  offer! 


More  Disk  Storage  596K  bytes  with 
double  density  on  standard  single  sided 
disk  drives.  If  that's  not  enough,  ver- 
sions are  available  for  double  sided 
expansion  drives  (1  2M  bytes  per  disk) 
and  the  Cameo  Hard  disk  system  (1 OM 
bytes). 

More  CRT  Functions  P&T  CP/M  2 
has  the  most  advanced  screen  driver 
available  for  the  Mod  1 1  including:  erase 
to  end  of  line/screen,  insert/delete 
line,  cursor  addressing,  non-scrolling 
area  on  screen,  and  much  more. 
More  Serial  I/O  Capabilities  The  se- 
rial drivers  in  P&T  CP/M  2  support 
ETX/ACK,  XON/XOFF,  and  request  to 
send  handshaking.  Direct  control  of 
the  serial  ports  is  also  available  for 
special  applications. 


More  Documentation  We  provide  the 
standard  CP/M  manuals  and  our  own 
150  page  manual  written  specifically 
for  P&T  CP/M  2. 

More  Utilities  We  have  added  14  of 
our  own  utility  programs  for  the  Mod  II 
to  the  standard  CP/M  utilities. 
More  Useful  System  Functions  P&T 
CP/M  2  has  all  sorts  of  useful  features 
you  won't  find  elsewhere:  type-ahead 
buffer  for  keyboard  input,  system  time 
of  day  clock,  automatic  program  execu- 
tion, and  lots  more. 

Prices 
Standard  P&T  CP/M  2  $1 85 

P&T  CP/M  2  for  Shugart  850 

2  sided  drives  $220 

P&T  CP/M  2  for  Cameo  Hard 

Disk  system  $250 


We  also  carry  these  other  software  packages: 


Magic  Wand  text  processor  $350 

VEDIT  text  editor  $110 

LYNC   data   communication  program    $95 

MCALL    intelligent   terminal  program    $65 

MAC  macro  assembler  $90 

Pascal/M  $175 

Microsoft  Basic-80  Interpreter  $325 

Microsoft  Basic-80  Compiler  $350 


CBASIC2  (improved  performance)       $105 
Osborn  accounting  software 
(requires  CBASIC  2;  manuals  extra) 
each  package  $95;  all  four  $295 
Also  available  are  single  and  double  sided 
expansion  disk  drives  and  the  Cameo  Hard 
Disk  System.  Call  or  write  for  details. 


Prepaid,  COD    Mastercharge  or  Visa  orders  accepted 
Shipping  extra  California  residents  add  6°t>  sales  tax 


s^-^T       PICKLES  &  TROUT 

1  ROU  1  P-O.  BOX  1 206,  GOLETA.  CA  9301 7.  (805)  967-9563 

CP/M  is  a  trademark  of  Digital  Research  Inc. 


TRS-80  is  a  trademark  of  Tandy  Corp. 


of  the  comparators  are  fed  to  an  en- 
coder. The  analog  voltage  determines 
which  comparators  are  on,  and  the 
encoder  then  turns  the  number  of  on 
comparators  into  the  corresponding 
binary  number.  The  only  delays  are 
the  settling  time  of  one  comparator 
and  the  encoder-logic  delay.  I've  built 
three  of  these  for  under  $100.  They 
are  also  commercially  available  in 
DIP  (dual-in-line  package)  form  in 
3-bit  or  4-bit  designs  that  allow  for 
cascading  to  achieve  1  or  2  additional 
bits. 

Summary 

Inexpensive  semiconductor 
memory  and  other  technological 
developments  have  made  digital  im- 
age storage  with  real-time  video  input 
and  output  a  practical  reality  for  the 
home  computer  experimenter. 
Several  complete  hardware  and  soft- 
ware systems  are  available  for  the 
display  and  digitization  of  real-time 
video.  At  least  one  company  offers  an 
inexpensive,  real-time  digitizer  and 
display,  while  several  offer  very  inex- 
pensive digitizers  to  accomplish  low- 
speed  digitization.  A  high-speed 
system  costs  $1500  to  $5000  or  more, 
depending  on  options.  The  primary 
price  difference  is  due  to  the  amount 
of  image  memory  desired.  Low-speed 
systems  range  from  about  $350  to 
$4000. 

Flash-conversion  products  range 
from  $30  to  $90  for  3-bit  and  4-bit 
units  with  about  30  MHz  maximum 
rate.  These  save  you  the  headaches  of 
finding  matched  resistor  values  for 
homebrew  flash  converters. 

Although  there  isn't  enough  infor- 
mation in  this  brief  article  to  con- 
struct an  image-capture  system,  there 
should  be  enough  to  familiarize  an 
ambitious  designer  with  the  tech- 
niques and  problems.  You  would  be 
well  advised  to  obtain  a  technical 
manual  from  a  manufacturer  to  help 
assess  the  potential  difficulties.  With 
healthy  competition  in  the  growing 
marketplace  for  image-capture  and 
display,  the  power/price  ratio  of 
complete  systems  will  continue  to  in- 
crease. ■ 


238       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publication!  Inc 


Circle  152  on  inquiry  card. 


Exciting,  entertaining  software  for  the  Apple  II  and  Apple  II  Plus' 


If  you  liked  "Invaders",  you'll  love  ASTEROIDS  IN  SPACE  by  Bruce  Wallace.  Your  space  ship  is  traveling  in  the  middle  of  a  shower  of  asteroids.  Blast  the  asteroids 
with  lasers,  but  beware  —  big  asteroids  fragment  into  small  asteroids!  The  Apple  game  paddles  allow  you  to  rotate  your  space  ship,  fire  its  laser  gun,  and  give  it 
thrust  to  propel  It  through  endless  space.  From  time  to  time  you  will  encounter  an  alien  space  ship  whose  mission  is  to  destroy  you,  so  you'd  better  destroy  it  first! 
High  resolution  graphics  and  sound  effects  add  to  the  arcade-like  excitement  that  this  program  generates.  Runs  on  any  Apple  II  with  at  least  32K  and  one 
disk  drive.  On  diskette  —  $19.95 


FRACAS™  by  Stuart  Smith.  A  fantastic  adventure  game  like  no  other 
—  up  to  eight  players  can  participate  in  FRACAS  at  the  same  time. 
Journey  in  the  land  of  FAROPH,  searching  for  hidden  treasure  while 
warding  off  all  sorts  of  unfriendly  and  dangerous  creatures  like  the 
Ten  Foot  Spider  and  the  Headless  Horseman.  You  and  your  friends 
can  compete  with  each  other  or  you  can  join  forces  and  gang  up  on 
the  monsters.  Your  location  is  presented  graphically  and  sound 
effects  enliven  the  battles.  Save  your  adventure  on  diskette  or 
cassette  and  continue  it  at  some  other  time.  Requires  at  least  32K 
of  RAM.  Cassette:  $19.95        Diskette:  $24.95 


BATTLESHIP  COMMANDER'"  by  Erik  Kilk  and  Matthew  Jew.  Agame 
of  strategy.  You  and  the  computer  each  start  out  by  positioning  five 
ships  of  different  sizes  on  a  ten  by  ten  grid.  Then  the  shooting  starts. 
Place  your  volleys  skillfully  —  a  combination  of  logic  and  luck  are 
required  to  beat  the  computer.  Cartoons  show  the  ships  sinking  and 
announce  the  winner.  Sound  effects  and  flashing  lights  also  add  to 
the  enioyment  of  the  game.  Requires  at  least  32K  of  RAM. 
Cassette:  $14.95        Diskette:  $19.95 


FASTGAMMON'"  by  Bob  Christiansen 
Sound,  hi  res  color,  and  cartoons  have 
helped  maked  this  the  most  popular 
backgammon-playing  game  for  the 
Apple  II  But  don't  let  these  entertaining 
features  fool  you  —  FASTGAMMON 
plays  serious  backgammon  Requires  at 
least  24K  of  RAM. 
Cassette:  $19.95        Diskette:  $24.95 


""Apple    II"   and    "Apple   II   Plus"   are 
trademark1,    ot   Apple    Computer,    Inc 


QUTILny  SOFTWARE 

6660  Reseda  Blvd..  Suite  105.  Reseda.  CA  91335 

WHERE  TO  GET  IT:  Call  us  at  (213)  344-6599  for  the  name  of  the  Quality  Software  dealer  nearest  you.  If  necessary,  you 
may  order  directly  from  us  MasterCharge  and  Visa  cardholders  may  place  orders  by  telephone  and  we  will  deduct  $1 
from  orders  over  $19  to  compensate  for  phone  charges.  Or  mail  your  order  to  the  address  above.  California  residents  add 
6%  sales  tax.  SHIPPING  CHARGES:  Within  North  America  orders  must  include  $1.50  for  first  class  shipping  and  handling. 
Outside  North  America  the  charge  for  airmail  shipping  and  handling  is  $5.00  —  payable  in  U.S.  currency. 


Circle  153  on  Inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980         239 


BYTELINES 

NEWS  AND  SPECULATION  ABOUT  PERSONAL  COMPUTING 


Conducted  by  Sol  Libes 


L/EC  Opens  Computer 
Museum:  Digital  Equip- 
ment Corporation  (DEC), 
the  pioneer  in  minicom- 
puters, has  opened  a  "com- 
puter museum"  in  the  lobby 
and  mezzanine  level  of  its 
Marlboro,  Massachusetts, 
"Tower  Building."  It  il- 
lustrates, through  actual 
equipment,  the  evolution 
from  calculator  to  micro- 
computers. The  exhibits  in- 
clude precomputer  devices, 
the  four  generations  of 
digital  logic  used  in  com- 
puters, and  some  early 
computer  systems  (eg: 
PDP-1  with  the  original 
Spacewar  program  and 
others).  The  museum  is 
open  to  the  public. 


ilandom  News  Bits: 

Casio,  Inc,  the  Japanese 
electronics  manufacturer, 
has  introduced  a  personal 
computer  in  the  US.  The 
FX-9000P  can  store  pro- 
grams directly  in  4  K-byte 
CMOS  (complementary 
metal-oxide  semiconductor) 
memory  cartridges  (with 
lithium  batteries)  that  can 
be  removed  from  the  unit. 
The  basic  unit  is  priced 
under  $900....  Pascal  can 
now  be  considered  as 
having  "made  it."  IBM  has 
announced  that  Pascal  will 
be  available  for  IBM  sys- 
tems using  OS/VS  and 
VM/CMS  operating  sys- 
tems. IBM  will  charge  $235 
a  month  for  it.  To  think  that 
most  microcomputer  users 
pay  less  than  IBM's  monthly 
charge  to  buy  Pascal  out- 
right.... A  study  conducted 
by  the  National  Institute  for 
Occupational  Safety  and 
Health  found  that  video- 
terminal  users  suffer  prob- 
lems of  eye  strain,  blurred 


vision,  color  perception, 
numbness,  and  loss  of 
strength  in  their  arms. 
These  users  also  experience 
higher  levels  of  anxiety, 
depression,  confusion,  and 
fatigue.... The  University  of 
Southern  California  will  of- 
fer a  graduate  degree  in 
voice  I/O  (input/output). 
The  curriculum  includes 
courses  in  electrical  and 
biomedical  engineering, 
communications,  computer 
science,  linguistics,  oto- 
laryngology, and  psy- 
chology... 


X  ujitsu  Overtakes  IBM 

In  Japan:  For  the  past  thir- 
ty years,  IBM  has 
dominated  data  processing 
over  the  entire  globe.  Now, 
however,  it  is  reported  that 
in  Japan  Fujitsu,  Ltd,  has 
overtaken  IBM  in  sales. 
Fujitsu  and  several  other 
Japanese  computer  sup- 
pliers are  now  preparing  a 
massive  onslaught  into  the 
US  and  European  markets. 


I 


EEE  Local  Network 
Standard  Moves  Ahead: 

The  IEEE  Local  Network 
Standards  Committee  ex- 
pects to  have  a  draft  of  its 
standard  by  year's  end.  At 
this  time,  it  appears  that 
the  Ethernet  system,  pro- 
posed by  Xerox,  Digital 
Equipment  Corporation, 
and  Intel,  will  not  be 
adopted  as  the  standard. 
The  reasons  for  this  are  that 
Ethernet  is  still  in  a  pre- 
liminary-definition state 
with  many  areas  not  pre- 
cisely defined.  Further, 
Ethernet  is  highly  depen- 


dent on  coaxial  cables  and 
a  particular  modulation 
technique.  Also,  Ethernet 
does  not  have  any  provision 
for  acknowledging  data- 
grams, which  could  lead  to 
possible  incompatibilities  in 
error  control  between  dif- 
ferent manufacturer's 
devices. 


■Juper  Computer 
Planned:  The  Ames 
Research  Center  of  NASA 
(National  Aeronautics  and 
Space  Administration)  is 
planning  a  special  super 
computer  capable  of  per- 
forming a  billion  floating- 
point operations  per  sec- 
ond. The  computer  will  be 
designed  to  simulate  a  wind 
tunnel.  It  is  expected  to 
have  40  M  words  of  direct- 
ly addressable  memory  plus 
200  M  words  of  block- 
addressable  memory. 
NASA  wants  the  system 
operational  in  1986. 


u« 


I S  Government  Shift- 
ing To  Smaller  Com- 
puters: The  US  government 
now  has  a  reported  15,000 
computers  in  operation, 
worth  more  than  $5.4 
billion.  The  trend  is  shifting 
from  large,  costly  main- 
frames to  smaller  units.  In 
fact,  now  at  least  two-thirds 
of  the  machines  cost  less 
than  $50,000. 

The  GSA  (General  Ser- 
vices Administration) 
recently  disclosed  that  at 
the  end  of  1979  the  three 
leading  computer  suppliers 
were  Digital  Equipment 
Corporation  (3656  units), 
Sperry  Univac  (1778  units), 
and  IBM  (1284  units). 
However,  IBM  still  ranked 


number  one  in  dollars 
($1.45  billion),  Control 
Data  was  second  ($754 
million),  and  Sperry 
Univac  was  third  ($686 
million). 


Jtlibbon  Recycling:  The 

word-processing  and 
printer  markets  have 
created  the  new  business  of 
recycling  printer  ribbons. 
About  fifty  vendors  are  of- 
fering consumers  recycled 
ribbons  at  a  saving  of  as 
much  as  60%,  along  with 
deliveries  in  5  to  10  days. 

Several  ribbon  manufac- 
turers are  introducing 
sealed  ribbon  cartridges  to 
prevent  recycling.  They 
claim  that  sealing  improves 
ribbon  reliability. 


M, 


Licrosoit  Signs  UNIX 
Agreement:  Microsoft,  of 
Bellevue,  Washington,  has 
signed  an  agreement  with 
Western  Electric  for  the 
rights  to  develop  and 
market  versions  of  UNIX, 
an  operating  system 
originated  by  Bell 
Laboratories.  The  Microsoft 
versions  will  be  specifically 
designed  for  16-bit 
microprocessors,  such  as 
the  Intel  8086,  Zilog  Z8000, 
and  Motorola  68000.  The 
Microsoft  version  will  be 
called  XENIX.  UNIX  seems 
to  be  the  most  popular 
minicomputer  timesharing 
operating  system  in  current 
use.  It  is  very  popular  in 
the  educational  community, 
probably  because  Western 
Electric  sold  it  to  educa- 
tional institutions  for  a  very 
low  fee.  However,  due  to 
its  sophisticated  features, 
UNIX  has  been  gaining  in 
popularity  in  the  profes- 


240       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


SOFTIA^RE 

tanking 

DIGITA/^RKETINGTf 


DIGITAL  MARKETING  '  267Q  CHERRY  LANE  «  WALNUT  CREEK  »  CALIFORNIA  94596  •  (415)  938-2880 
/REPORT  WRITER™  /PASCAL/ M™ 


/COPYWRITER'"" 


/Mini-word  and  arithmetic  calculation  processor  designed  to 
'  generate  reports  with  ledger  ot  figures  and  numeric  calcula- 
tions. Built-in  calculator  (unctions  end  calculator  to  paper  er- 
rors. Saves  data.  Reports  can  be  printed  ds  often  as  desired. 
Crranges  In  ddtd  can  be  easily  entered  and  sdved.  "Cause  ar 
Effect"  analysis  easily  computed  using  Recdlculate  function. 

f  Typical  applications  are: 

*  Appreciation  Schedules 

*  Capitol  Expenditure  Proposals 

*  Protit/Loss  Projections 

*  Balance  Sheet  Projections 

*  Budget  Analysis 

*  Job  &  Labor  Analysis 


CP/M™  compatible  language  for  8'  8080/Z80  CPU's. 
NorthStor  2D,  Cromemco  CDOS  &  Superbraln. 

*  Random  occess  files 

*  Run-time  debug  support 

*  Over  45  extensions  to  Standard  Pascal 

*  Requires  54K  RAM 

$175  Manual  alone  -  510 


ACT™ 


$150.  Manual  alone  $25. 

Requires  48K  RAM  &  Microsoft  Basic  Formats:  8*  single 
density.  NorthStor  2D  &  Micropolis  Mod  II 


CP/M  compotlble  macro  assembler  for  Z80,  8080/85.  6502 
&  6800. 

One  assembler  that  supports  all  major  8  bit  micros  and  runs 
under  CP/M.  Formats:  8'  single  density,  NorthStar,  &  Super- 
brain.  Requires  24K  RAM. 
$125.  Manual  alone  ■  $15. 

ACT  II  -  CP/M  2.x  compatible  cross  assembler  for 
8086/8088 

$175.  Manual  alone  -  $15. 

ACT  I  and  ACT  II  purchased  together  -  $225. 


f  A  powerful  CP/M  Word  Processing  System  which  Includes 
fast  screen  editor  and  Is  exceptionally  easy  to  learn  and  i 
Copywriter  supports  both  vertical  and  horizontal  scrolling 
132  column  printers.  File  size  is  limited  only  by  disk  size. ' 
print  formating  program  allows  control  over  output  word  | 
cessing  files,  and  permits  the  insertion  of  variable  data  in 
form  letters.  Full  proportional  printing  is  also  supported. 

(COPYWRITER  +  includes  dn  Integrated  mailing  list 
system  which  can: 
select  any  range  of  zip  codes  for  printing 

select  which  fields  to  fill  into  merge 

select  by  title,  position  or  department  within  a  company 

Output  can  sort  for  bulk  mailings  by  state  and  zip  code. 


COPYWRITER  -  $395. 

COPYWRITER*  -  $595.  Manual  alone  $35. 

Requires  56K  RAM.  8*  single  density  IBM  format 


/DATEBOOK™ 

( NEWI  for  NorthStar,  Micropolis,  TRS-80  Mod  II 
&  dny  other  CP/M  based  operating  system. 

/End  paging  through  an  appointment  book  forever!  Easy  to 
'  learn  &  use. 
„    Replaces  your  office  appointment  book 

*  Searches  for  openings  thot  fit  time  of  day,  day  of  week  & 
day  of  year  constraints 

*  Appointments  made,  modified  or  cancelled  by  a  few  key 
strokes 

*  Copies  of  day's  oppolntments  can  be  quickly  printed 

*  Schedule  appointments  4  months  in  advance  -  plus 
$295.  Manual  alone  -  $25. 


/S^BASIC™ 

Produces  chalnoble,  relocatable  native  code. 

*  Fully  defined  user  functions  &  procedures 

*  Local  &  global  variables 

*  Single  &  double  precision  floating  point 

*  Fixed  point  packed  BCD 

*  Integer,  string  &  character  data  types 

*  Pdcked  binary  disk  storage 

Requires  40K  RAM.  Format  8*  single  density,  NorthStar  2D 

&  Micropolis  Mod  II. 

SPECIAL  INTRODUCTORY  PRICEI  $250. 

$295.  January  1, 1981 


'PAYSOFT™ 


/Easy  to  use,  yet  powerful  and  flexible  payroll  program  for  8* 
'  single  density,  NorthStar  2D  &  TRS-80. 

*  Simplified  data  base  construction. 

*  Minimum  system  operation  time 

*  Enter  hours  worked  -  gross  &  net  pay  calculated 

*  Federal,  State,  FICA,  SDI  witholdings  are  automotic 

Requires  48K  RAM 
$195. 


FILETRAN™ 

/The  TRSDOS  to  CP/M  and  CP/M  to  TRSDOS  file  translation 
system.  FILETRAN  transfers  files  by  file  name  from  one  disk  to 
another  May  also  be  used  to  seorch  any  program  for  all  oc- 
curences of  a  string.  Can  be  used  to  generate  a  variable  cross 
reference  Helps  to  convert  Level  II  BASIC  programs  to  Micro- 
soft Basic  Formats:  8"  single  density,  NorthStar  2D  & 
TRS-80 

$149. 


vlAGIC  WAND™ 

'/M-based  word  processing  system  for  8«  soft-sectored  & 
.*  NorthStar  or  Micropolis. 

Full  screen  text  editing 

Full  text  formatting  commands 

Merging  with  external  data  files 

Variables 

Conditional  commands 

True  proportional  printing 

50. 


PEARL™ 

The  application  software  generator  tor  8'  single  density, 
NorthStar  2D,  Micropolis  Mod  II  &  Superbraln. 
Pearl  asks  questions  thqt  a  programmer  would  have  to 
answer  to  code  the  system.  You  dnswer  the  questions  & 
Pearl  uses  built-in  logic  to  construct  both  subroutines  & 
mainline  programs.  The  system  then  compiles  &  executes 
your  program  code. 

•  Level  1  For  Personal  Computing  -  $130. 

•  Level  2:  The  Business  Assistant  -  $350. 

•  Level  3:  Advanced  Software  Development    -  $650. 

CBASIC2™  required. 
Manuals  alone  -  $25.  each 


'SELECTOR  IV™ 

1  A  totally  self-contained  CP/M  Data  Base  System  providing 
complete  ddta,  procedural,  query,  and  report  definition  func- 
tions. Allows  records  to  be  managed  on  a  one-for-one  basis, 
as  well  as  in  'batch'  mode  where  several  files  can  communi- 
cate with  each  other  in  a  variety  of  ways.  Includes  multiple 
key  fields .  Requires  54K  RAM. 


$550.  Manual  alone  $25. 


Formats:  8*  single  density,  NorthStar  2D  &  Micropolis  Mod  I 


ULTRASORNI'M 

The  sort/merge/select  utility  for  CBASIC2  written  in  assembly 
language.  Can  be  loaded  by  CBASIC  during  run-time,  also  can 

NnriT  °S  °  s,and-°'on<>  u,ili»V  Formats.  8-  single  density, 
NorthStor  2D  &  Micropolis  Mod  II. 

$175. 


CBASIC2™ 


'TEXTWRITERIIItm 

f  NEW  FEATURESI  a  text  formatting  program  for  NorthStar  & 
TRS-80  DOS,  Micropolis  MDOS  &  any  CP/M  based  system. 

Proportional  spacing  &  enhanced  printing  for 
•  Diablo  •  Qume  •  NEC  printers 


nte re. T  'me"™')ia,e  °°de  COm>iter  wi'*  ™-«™ 

interpreter.  Features  include  chaining,  integer  &  external  pred- 
ion arithmetic.  CP/M,  MP/M  »  relocated  TRS-80  vers*  s  va ,- 
able,  as  well  as  8-  sing,e  density,  NorthStar  2D  &  Micropo  s 


5120. 


Enhanced  printing  includes  ribbon  color  change  dudl 
pitch,  reverse  line  feed. 

•  UNDERSCORE  .   SUPERSCRIPT 

•  DOUBLE  STRIKE  %CRIPT 

•  STRIKEOUT 
$125.  Manual  alone  -  $25. 


'  '"quiry 


caret. 


sional  and  business  worlds 
as  well. 

Microsoft  plans  to  charge 
an  initial  fee  for  the 
package  ranging  from  a 
low  of  $500  to  $3000  for  a 
four-user  system.  The  com- 
pany also  has  plans  to 
adapt  its  BASIC, 
FORTRAN  ,  and  COBOL 
compilers  to  run  under 
XENIX.  Microsoft  has  pur- 
chased a  DEC  PDP- 11/70 
minicomputer  specifically 
for  the  XENIX  development 
project.  The  Z8000  version 
is  slated  for  introduction  by 
year's  end,  and  the  8086 
and  68000  versions  are  to 
follow  sometime  in  the  sec- 
ond guarter  of  1981. 

Considering  that  Digital 
Research  plans  on  develop- 
ing only  an  8086  version  of 
its  very  popular  CP/M 
operating  system,  it  seems 
likely  that  Microsoft's 
XENIX  will  become  the 
dominant  operating  system 
for  16-bit  microcomputer 
systems. 


Winch  Winchester  Disk 
Drives  Coming  On  Strong: 

At  least  a  half-dozen  com- 
panies will  have  5-inch 
hard-disk  drives  on  the 
market  late  in  the  first  half 
of  1981.  Latest  to  jump  on 
the  5-inch  disk-drive  band- 
wagon are  International 
Memories  Inc  (IMI)  (the 
Cupertino,  California,  firm 
that  marketed  the  first 
8-inch  Winchester  drive) 
and  Shugart  Associates  (the 
largest  producer  of  floppy- 
disk  drives).  These  drives 
typically  store  5  million  to  7 
million  bytes  and  sell  for 
less  than  $1000  in  OEM 
(original  eguipment 
manufacturer)  guantities. 


W4  K-Bit  Memory  Devices 
Becoming  Available: 

Several  integrated-circuit 
manufacturers  are  currently 
supplying  samples  of  the 
new  64  K-bit  program- 
mable memory  circuits  to 
OEMs  for  evaluation  and 
development.  Look  to  see 
these  devices  in  use  start- 
ing in  early  1981. 

The  introduction  of  these 


components  has  already 
caused  the  price  of 
16  K-bit  devices  to  drop 
significantly;  just  a  few 
months  ago,  these  circuits 
cost  six  to  eight  dollars — 
now  they  are  four  or  five 
dollars.  Currently,  the 
64  K-bit  memories  are  in 
the  forty-  to  sixty-dollar 
range,  which  may  drop  to 
thirty  or  thirty-five  dollars 
in  production  guantities. 

It  is  expected  that 
Japanese  suppliers  will 
dominate  the  64  K-bit 
device  marketplace.  The 
16  K-bit  device  market  has 
been  dominated  by 
American  suppliers, 
although  the  Japanese  cur- 
rently have  40%  of  that 
market.  The  demand  for  the 
64  K-bit  memories  does 
not,  as  yet,  appear  to  be 
very  strong.  However,  the 
price  erosion  of  the 
16  K-bit  memories  and  in- 
creasing competition  from 
Japanese  suppliers   should 
cause  the  64  K-bit  memory 
prices  to  drop  guickly. 


Jfc  rotecting  The  Software 
Copyright:  Software  ven- 
dors are  very  concerned 
about  software  being 
pirated  by  unauthorized 
copying.  The  problem  is 
acute  simply  because  it  is 
very  easy  to  duplicate 
cassette-  and  disk-based 
software.  Further,  it  isn't 
especially  difficult  to  copy 
software  stored  in  read-only 
memories. 

The  personal-computer 
user  does  not  appear  to  be 
the  cause  of  the  problem 
because  most  of  that  type  of 
pirating  is  for  personal  use, 
and  it  occurs  only  on  a 
small  scale  without  a 
significant  impact  on  ven- 
dor sales.  However,  several 
software  vendors  are  com- 
plaining that  software 
pirates  are  making  copies 
of  their  software  packages 
and  selling  them.  The  soft- 
ware pirate  freguently 
changes  the  name  of  the 
software  package  and  may 
even  make  some  minor 
changes  so  that  the  con- 
sumer is  unaware  that  the 
software  is  a  fraud.  The 
practice  appears  to  be 
widespread  outside  the  US, 


where  this  kind  of  activity 
is  very  difficult  to  prevent. 
As  a  result,  software  ven- 
dors are  seeking  ways  to 
prevent  pirating.  Several 
are  now  experimenting  with 
software  technigues  that 
cause  the  copied  software 
to  self-destruct  if  it  is  run 
on  an  unauthorized 
machine.  I  suspect  that  this 
will  prove  to  be  a  deterrent 
for  the  experimenter  and 
small-time  thief,  but  the 
professional  software  pirate 
should  be  able  to  overcome 
this  system. 


A  andy.  Apple.  And 
Commodore  Are  Top 
Personal-Computer  Per- 
formers: Each  year  Datama- 
tion analyzes  and  rates  the 
top  one  hundred  computer 
companies.  For  the  second 
year  in  a  row,  Tandy  Cor- 
poration (parent  company 
of  Radio  Shack),  Apple 
Computer,  and  Com- 
modore have  made  that  list. 
In  fact,  for  this  past  year 
Tandy  ranked  thirty-ninth 
(up  from  last  year's  fifty- 
eighth),  Apple  ranked 
sixty-first  (up  from  one- 
hundredth  last  year),  and 
Commodore  ranked 
seventy-fifth  (up  from 
ninety-fourth  last  year). 
Tandy  had  gross  sales  of 
$150  million,  a  131%  in- 
crease. Apple  had  $75 
million  in  sales,  up  from 
$10  million  the  previous 
year,  a  650%  increase. 
Commodore  had  $55 
million  sales,  a  150%  in- 
crease. 

These  three  personal - 
computer  makers  had  the 
highest  growth  rates  of  the 
top  one  hundred  computer- 
product  vendors  in  the  US. 
IBM,  which  ranked  number 
one  in  total  sales,  had  only 
a  7%  increase  in  sales. 


JL  diking  Computers  To 
Be  The  Rage:  1981  should 
be  the  year  that  consumers 
first  see  the  widespread  use 
of  voice  output  in  products 
ranging  from  computers  to 
household  appliances. 
Many  manufacturers  are 
currently  supplying 


samples  of  speech-synthesis 
integrated  circuits  to  OEM 
customers.  The  manufac- 
turers include  Texas  In- 
struments, National 
Semiconductor,  General 
Instrument,  Hitachi,  and 
Votrax.  The  Hitachi 
HD38880  integrated  circuit, 
for  example,  can  produce 
up  to  200  words  or  one 
hundred  seconds  of  speech 
from  data  stored  in  a 
128  K-bit  ROM  (read-only 
memory).  The  Texas  In- 
struments TMS5200,  essen- 
tially the  same  device  used 
in  the  Speak  &  Spell  toy, 
has  been  given  an  8-bit 
data-bus  interface  and 
should  operate  easily  with 
personal  computers. 


Alcradom  Rumors:  It  is 

rumored  that  Intel, 
Motorola,  and  Fujitsu  are 
all  working  on  the  develop- 
ment of  microprocessors 
that  will  implement  the  IBM 
System/370  instruction  set. 
Performance  is  expected  to 
be  comparable  to  an  IBM 
370/115.  IBM  is  rumored  to 
already  have  such  an 
integrated-circuit  version 

running Xerox  is 

rumored  to  be  attempting 
to  buy  Apple 

Computer....  Digital  Eguip- 
ment Corporation  is 
rumored  ready  to  release  a 
16-bit  microprocessor 
device  that  will  be  compat- 
ible with  8080,  Z80,  and 
6800  support  circuits.  It  is 
expected  to  have  the  power 
of  a  PDP-11/23.  At  least 
one  company  is  rumored  to 
be  investigating  an  S-100 
implementation .... 

MAIL:  I  receive  a  large 
number  of  letters  each  month 
as  a  result  of  this  column.  If 
you  write  to  me  and  wish  a 
response,  please  include  a 
stamped,  self -addressed 
envelope. 

Sol  Libes 
POB  1192 
Mountainside  NJ  07092 


242       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


CP/M " '  -  based  Business  Software  for  TRS-80®2  computers  on  . 
...  the  fastest  Mod-ll  CP/M  with  the  most  features!!! 


Over  610,000  bytes/disk 
Downloading  package  included 
1 ,200  baud  operation  of  serial 
printers  without  data  loss 
Single  drive  backup 


•  Mixed  single/double  density  on  any 

of  4  drives  (even  a  1 -drive  system) 

•  Ultra-fast  disk  operation 

•  Emulation  of  cursor  addressing  for 

any  of  several  "dumb"  CRTs 


Auto-LF  printer  support  &  ASCII 
top-of-form  software  (LPIII) 

Supplemental  document  describing 
our  implementation 

User-settable  function  keys 


MOD-II  CP/M  $250.00        MOD-I  CP/M $150.00        CBASIC2"3  (Mod  I  or  II)   $110.00 

The  following  software  for  Mod-ll  CP/M  only  unless  otherwise  stated  (*-requires  CBASIC2): 

RM/COBOL*4  -  Only  COBOL  for  CP/M  with  alternate  keys  (multi- 
key  ISAM),  CRT  screen  handling,  interactive  debug,  Z80  code,  and 
the  most  useful  Level  2    features.  Compatible  with  Tandy's 

COBOL-but  runs  faster!  $495.00 

PMS  (Property  Management  System)  -  Interactive,  menu-driven 
system  includes  full  G/L,  budgeting,  cash  journal,  delinquency 
list,  tenant  activity/rent  roll,  complete  audit  trail  and  reports 

on  vacancies,  lost  rent,  and  vendors  $650.00* 

demo  disk  &  manual  75.00* 

APH  (Automated  Patient  History)  -  General-purpose  question- 
asking,  answer-printing  system  furnished  as  self-administered 
review-of-systemsgeneral patient  history(Mod-l also) ...  $1 75.00* 


MAGIC  WAND"5  -  Full-feature  word  processing,  true  proportional 
spacing,  file  merging,  and  use  of  full-screen  editor  for  source 

programs  or  data $400.00 

RPA  (Residential  Property  Analysis) -Analyzes  income  and  expense, 
financing,  taxes,  inflation  and  depreciation  on  home,  condo,  or 
apartments  over  a  user-selectable  time.  Shows  payoff  in  terms  of 
ROI,  Cap  rate,  cash-on-cash.  Amortization  schedules  and 
worksheet $300.00* 

demo  disk  &  manual  35.00* 

RBC  (Rent/Buy  Comparison)  -  Sales  or  investment  tool  to  compare 
renting  and  savings  account  investment  vs.  purchasing  a  particular 
property $250.00* 

demo  disk  &  manual 35.00* 


Osborne  &  Assoc.  CBASIC  source  programs  (Mod-I  also): 

Payroll  w/Cost  Accounting $250.00*     General  Ledger  w/Cash  Journal  $250.00* 

Accts.  Payable/ Accts.  Receivable  $250.00*     O&A  CBASIC  Books  (ea.) $  20.00 

\feibatim®6  media:  (Qty.  1 00  prices) 

5W'  single  density   $2.50  ea. 

8"  certified  double  density  $4.00  ea. 


8"  single  density 

450'  tape  cartridges 


$  3.00  ea. 
$20.00  ea. 


8041  Newman  Ave.,  Suite  208  LC- 
Huntington  Beach,  CA  92647 
(714)848-1922 


Registered  trademark  of: 

s1  Digital  Research 

•2Tandy  Corp. 

•3Compiler  Systems,  Inc. 

»4Ryan-McFarland  Corp. 

•5Small  Business  Applications,  Inc. 

•^verbatim  Corp. 


$9 


Distributed  in  U.K.  by: 

Microcomputer  Applications  Ltd. 

11,  Riverside  Court, 

Caversham,  Reading,  England 

TEL:  (0734)  470425 


DG/H8  —  THE  TOTAL  SYSTEMS  CONCEPT 


THE  DG-80  ZILOG  Z80  BASED  CPU  —  $249.00  (Documentation  Only  $25.00) 


FEATURES: 

•  Compatible  with  Heath*  H8  hardware  and  software 

•  Z80  CPU  —  Enhanced  instruction  set  •  Provisions  for 
up  to  8KR0M/EPR0M  and/or  4K  RAM  •  Jump-On-Re- 
set  to  any  1K  boundary  •  DIP  switch  selectable  wait 


states  for  any  or  all  8K  blocks  of  memory  •  All  Z80 
interrupt  response  modes  available  •  Interrupt  Acknow- 
ledge and  Dynamic  Memory  Refresh  signals  available  on 
bus  •  Frequently  selected  options  by  DIP  switch  or  sol- 
derless  jumper  •  Machined  contact  gold  sockets  for 


ROM/EPROM,  RAM  •  Includes  many  advanced  features 
for  future  expansion  •  Assembled,  tested  and  guaran- 
teed •  Extensive  operations  manual  and  Z80  PROGRAM- 
MING MANUAL 
90  DAY  WARRANTY 


DG-64D      64K- $529.00      48K- $480.00      32K-$431.00      16K-  $382.00     J^K- $333.00 


BEST  RAM  EVER 

AVAILABLE  FOR 

THE  H8. 


FEATURES: 

•  Up  to  64K  bytes  capacity  Dynamic  RAM 

•  Hardware  bank  selectable  in  8K  incre- 
ments •  Software  bank  selectable  in  16K 
increments  through  I/O  port  •  On-  board 
bank  select/CPU  ROM  disable  port,  ad- 


dressable to  any  of  256  I/O  addresses  •  Up 
to  8  boards  controllable  through  one  I/O  port 
(allows  page  mode  operation)  •  On-board 
transparent  refresh  for  8080  or  Z80  micro- 
processor backed  up  by  asynchronous  re- 
fresh upon  toss  of  normal  program  execu- 


tion. •  4  MHz  operation  with  no  wait  states 
required  •  Low  power  consumption  — 
less  than  8  watts  •  Assembled,  tested,  & 
burned-in 

90  DAY  WARRANTY 

Documentation  Only        $15.00 


DG-FP8  —  $69.95 


Monitor/Utility  package  for  DG-80  CPU  provides 
functions  of  PAM-8  as  well  as  the  following: 


•  Split  Octal  or  Hexidecimal  Entry  and  Dis- 
play •  Z80  monitor  features  such  as  dis- 
play alternate  register  sets,  display  index 
registers,  •  "Shorthand"  display  of  mem- 
ory contents  pointed  to  by  general  purpose 
Documentation  Only  -  $15.00  (Source  Listing  Not  Included) 


registers  •  Supports  STANDARD  CP/M 
provided  by  D-G  as  well  as  HDOS  •  Pro- 
vides firmware  support  for  DG-ADP4, 4  MHz 
hardware  •  Includes  single  step  features 


DG-ADP4  — $19.95 


Plug-in  hardware  modification  to  allow  operation  of  the  Heath*  H17  disk  system  with  the 
DG-80  at  4  MHz.  Requires  the  use  of  the  DG-FP8  firmware  package. 


16K  CHIP  SETS  $49.00 


(8-4116  Type  Dynamic  RAMS)  for  DG-32D.DG-64D, Apple*, TRS-80*. 
H88/  89»,  and  Pet* 


DG-CMD1  —  $29.95 


ROM  disable  port  for  use  with  the 
Heath*  H8  computer.  Addressable  to 
any  of  256  I/O  ports.  Allows  the  use  of  a 
full  64K  of  RAM  when  used  in  conjunc- 


tion with  the  DG-80  CPU  and  the  DG-FP8 
hardware/firmware  package  (NOT  RE- 
QUIRED FOR  SYSTEMS  UTILIZING  THE 
DG-64D  MEMORY  BOARD) 


DG-FP8/DG-ADP4  -  TOGETHER  —  $79.95 

Save  on  Combination  Purchase  Reg.  $89.90 

DG-32D  —  32K  —  $339.00  —  16K  —  $287.00 
— jrfK  —  $235.00 -DOCUMENTATION  $12.00 


STANDARD  CP/M  Ver  2.2      $130.00 


CP/M  is  a  registered  trademark  of  Digital  Research  ot  Pacific  Grove,  California.  Heath,  HDOS,  H8.  H88/89  &  PAM8  are  registered  trademarks  of  the  Heath  Company.  Z80  is  a  registered  trademark  of  Zilog 
Corp.  PET  is  a  registered  trademark  of  Commodore,  Apple  is  a  registered  trademark  of  Apple  Computer.  TRS-80  is  a  registered  trademark  of  TANDY  Corp. 


□  B 


Ordering  >*»iinttuii:  Products  listed  available  from  DG  Electronic  Develop- 
ments Co.,  P.O.  Box  1124, 1827 South Aimstrong,  Denison,  Tx,  75020,  Check, 
Money  Order,  VISA  or  Master  Charge  accepted.  Phone  orders  (charge  only)  call 
(214)  465-7805.  No  COD'S.  Freight  prepaid.  Allow  3  weeks  for  personal  checks 
to  dear.  Texas  residents  add  5%.  Foreign  orders  add  30%. 


Circle  155  on  Inquiry  card. 


BYTE  Novtmbtr  1980 


243 


Machine  Problem  Solving 

Part  3:  The  Alpha-Beta  Procedure 


Professor  Peter  Frey 

Northwestern  University 

Cresap  Neuroscience  Laboratory 

2021  Sheridan  Rd 

Evanston  IL  60201 


Zero-Sum  Games 

In  many  problem-solving  situations,  the  wisdom  of  a 
particular  decision  often  depends  upon  the  range  of  op- 
tions that  someone  else  may  have.  Many  real-world  de- 
cision-making environments  can  be  modeled  in  terms  of  a 
two-person  game.  When  each  player  is  aware  of  his  own 
and  his  opponent's  options  at  each  choice  point,  the  game 
is  described  as  one  of  perfect  information.  If  the  rules  of 
the  game  require  that  each  player's  gain  must  come  at  the 
expense  of  the  other,  then  the  game  is  strictly  com- 
petitive, or  zero-sum.  Familiar  games  that  meet  these  cri- 
teria are  chess,  checkers,  three-dimensional  tic-tac-toe, 
go,  gomoku,  and  Othello. 

The  first  two  articles  in  this  series  considered  decision- 
making situations  in  which  a  single  individual  was 
responsible  for  a  series  of  choices.  By  constructing  pro- 
grams that  searched  among  a  large  number  of  choice 
combinations,  we  were  successful  in  developing  mechani- 
cal solutions  for  these  problems.  When  two  people  are 
making  choices  and  each  is  trying  to  better  his  own  posi- 
tion at  the  other's  expense,  the  standard  look-ahead 
search  that  we  described  earlier  is  no  longer  adequate. 

Minimax  Strategy 

Instead,  it  is  necessary  to  consider  choices  in  which  the 
two  players  attempt  to  satisfy  conflicting  goals.  Most  of 
the  important  strategic  ideas  which  are  used  in  analyzing 
these  games  date  back  to  a  very  influential  book  which 
was  written  in  1944  by  Von  Neumann  and  Morgenstern 
(see  reference  4). 

The  key  idea  for  our  present  purposes  is  the  minimax 
strategy.  In  analyzing  any  given  position  in  the  game,  a 


look-ahead  tree  is  constructed  which  represents  the  se- 
quence of  options  that  the  two  players  have  (as  a  hierar- 
chical branching  structure  which  grows  exponentially  as 
one  proceeds  away  from  the  initial  position). 

The  minimax  strategy  consists  of  evaluating  "final" 
positions  at  some  arbitrary  depth  (usually  defined  by 
practical  constraints  of  time  and  space)  and  then  follow- 
ing parent  nodes  all  the  way  down  the  tree  to  the  starting 
position.  This  path  is  defined  by  assuming  that  each 
player  will  decide  among  the  options  that  are  available  to 
him  at  his  choice  points  by  selecting  the  one  that 
guarantees  the  best  possible  outcome. 

If  the  terminal  evaluations  are  chosen  such  that  high 
numbers  favor  the  first  player  (and  low  numbers  favor 
the  second  player),  the  first  player  is  expected  to  choose 
the  pathway  that  guarantees  as  large  a  terminal  value  as 
possible,  and  the  second  player  is  expected  to  choose  the 
pathway  that  guarantees  as  small  a  terminal  value  as 
possible.  In  practical  terms,  the  first  player  always  max- 
imizes, the  second  player  always  minimizes. 

This  description  would  seem  to  explain  the  derivation 
of  the  name.  This  is  not  historically  correct,  however. 
The  "minimax"  name  is  actually  based  on  the  underlying 
strategic  idea  that  each  player  attempts  to  minimize  his 
opponent's  maximum  potential  gain. 

History  and  Practicality 

The  minimax  technique  appeared  to  be  of  limited  prac- 
ticality when  it  was  first  discovered  because  of  the  rapid 
increase  in  the  number  of  terminal  positions  as  the  look- 
ahead  tree  grows.  The  number  of  terminal  positions  that 
need  to  be  analyzed  in  a  minimax  search  is  equal  roughly 


244       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


DYNACOMP 


Quality  software  for; 

ATARI 

PET 

APPLE  II  Plus 


TRS-80  (Level  II) 
NORTH  STAR 
CP/M  8"  Disk 


BRIDGE  2.0 


GAMES 

Price:  $17.95  Cassette 
$21.95  Diskette 

An  all-inclusive  version  or  this  most  popular  of  card  games.  This  program  both  BIDS  and  PLAYS 
either  contract  or  duplicate  bridge.  Depending  on  the  contract,  your  computer  opponents  will  either 
play  the  offense  OR  defense.  If  you  bid  too  high,  the  computer  will  double  your  contract  I  BRIDGE  2.0 
provides  challenging  entertainment  for  advanced  players  and  is  an  excellent  learning  tool  for  the  bridge 
novice. 

HEARTS  1.5  Price:  S14.95  Cassette 

$18.95  Diskette 

An  exciting  and  entertaining  computer  version  of  this  popular  card  game.  Hearts  is  a  trick-oriented 
game  in  which  the  purpose  is  not  to  take  any  hearts  or  the  queen  of  spades.  Play  against  two  computer 
opponents  who  are  armed  with  hard-to-beat  playing  strategies. 

CRIBBAGE  2.0  (TRS-80  only)  Price:  $14.95  Cassette 

$18.95  Diskette 

This  is  a  well-designed  and  nicely  executed  two-handed  version  of  the  classic  card  game,  cribbage.  It  is 
an  excellent  program  for  the  cribbage  player  in  search  of  a  worthy  opponent  as  well  as  the  beginner 
wishing  to  learn  the  game,  in  particular  the  scoring  and  jargon.  The  standard  cribbage  score  board  is 
continually  shown  at  the  top  of  the  display  (utilizing  the  TRS-80's  graphics  capabilities),  with  the  cards 
shown  underneath.  The  computer  automatically  scores  and  also  announces  the  points  using  the  tradi- 
tional phrases. 

CHESS  MASTER  (North  Star  and  TRS-80  only)  Price:  $19.95  Cassette 

$23.95  Diskette 

This  complete  and  very  powerful  program  provides  five  levels  of  play.  It  includes  castling,  en  passant 
captures  and  the  promotion  of  pawns,  Additionally,  the  board  may  be  preset  before  the  start  of  play, 
permitting  the  examination  of  "book"  plays.  To  maximize  execution  speed,  the  program  is  written  in 
assembly  language  (by  SOFTWARE  SPECIALISTS  or  California).  Full  graphics  are  employed  in  the 
TRS-80  version,  and  two  widths  of  alphanumeric  display  are  provided  to  accommodate  North  Star 


STARTREK3.2  Price:  $  9.95  Cassette 

$13.95  Diskette 

This  is  the  classic  Startrek  simulation,  but  with  several  new  features.  For  example,  the  Klingons  now 
shoot  at  the  Enterprise  without  warning  while  also  attacking  star  bases  in  other  quadrants,  The 
Klingons  also  attack  with  both  light  and  heavy  cruisers  and  move  when  shot  at!  The  situation  is  hectic 
when  the  Enterprise  is  besieged  by  three  heavy  cruisers  and  a  starbase  S.O.S.  is  received !  The  Klingons 
get  even! 

SPACE  TILT  (Apple  only)  Price:  $10.95  Cassette 

$14.95  Diskette 
Use  the  game  paddles  to  tilt  the  plane  of  the  TV  screen  to  "roll"  a  ball  into  a  hole  in  the  screen.  Sound 
simple?  Not  when  the  hole  gets  smaller  and  smaller!  A  built-in  timer  allows  you  to  measure  your  skill 
against  others  in  this  habit-forming  action  game. 

GAMES  PACK  I  and  GAMES  PACK  II  Price:  $  9.95  each,  Cassette 

$13.95  each,  Diskette 
GAMES  PACK  I  contains  BLACKJACK,  LUNAR  LANDER,  CRAPS,  HORSERACE,  SWITCH 
and  more.  GAMES  PACK  II  includes  CRAZY  EIGHTS,  JOTTO.  ACEY-DUCEY,  LIFE,  WUMPUS 
and  others. 
Why  pay  S5.95  or  more  per  program  when  you  can  buy  a  DYNACOMP  collection  for  just  $9.95? 


STATISTICS  and  ENGINEERING 


DATA  SMOOTHER  Price:  $14.95  Cassette 

$18.95  Diskette 

This  special  data  smoothing  program  may  be  used  to  rapidly  derive  useful  information  from  noisy 
business  and  engineering  data  which  are  equally  spaced,  The  software  features  choice  in  degree  and 
range  of  fit,  as  well  as  smoothed  first  and  second  derivative  calculation.  Also  included  is  automatic 
plotting  of  the  input  data  and  smoothed  results. 

FOURIER  ANALYZER  Price:  $14.95  Cassette 

$18.95  Diskette 

Use  this  program  to  examine  the  frequency  spectra  of  limited  duration  signals.  The  program  features 
automatic  scaling  and  plotting  of  the  input  data  and  results.  Practical  applications  include  the  analysis 
of  complicated  patterns  in  such  fields  as  electronics,  communications  and  business. 

TFA  (Transfer  Function  Analyzer)  Price:  $19.95  Cassette 

$23.95  Diskette 

This  is  a  special  software  package  which  may  be  used  to  evaluate  the  transfer  functions  of  systems  such 
as  hi-fi  amplifiers  and  filters  by  examining  their  response  to  pulsed  inputs.  TFA  is  a  major  modification 
of  FOURIER  ANALYZER  and  contains  an  engineering-oriented  decible  versus  log-frequency  plot  as 
well  as  data  editing  features.  Whereas  FOURIER  ANALYZER  is  designed  for  educational  and  scien- 
tific use,  TFA  is  an  engineering  tool. 

FOURIER  ANALYZER  and  TFA  may  be  purchased  together  for  a  combined  price  of  129.95 
(Cassettes)  and  S37.93  (Diskettes). 

REGRESSION  I  Price:  $19.95  Cassette 

$23.95  Diskette 

REGRESSION  I  is  a  unique  and  exceptionally  versatile  one-dimensional  least  squares  "polynomial" 
curve  fitting  program.  Features  include  very  high  accuracy;  an  automatic  degree  determination  option; 
an  extensive  internal  library  of  fitting  functions;  data  editing;  automatic  data  and  curve  plotting;  a 
statistical  analysis  (e.g.,  standard  deviation,  correlation  coefficient,  etc.)  and  much  more.  In  addition, 
new  fits  may  be  tried  without  reentering  the  data.  REGRESSION  I  is  certainly  the  cornerstone  program 
in  any  data  analysis  software  library. 


Circle  156  on  Inquiry  card. 


Availability 

DYNACOMP  software  is  supplied  with  complete  documentation  containing  clear  explanations  and 
examples.  All  programs  will  run  within  16K  program  memory  space  (ATARI  requires  24K).  Except  where 
noted,  programs  are  available  on  ATARI,  PET,  TRS-80  (Level  II)  and  Apple  (Applesoft)  cassette  and 
diskette  as  well  as  North  Star  single  density  (double  density  compatible)  diskette.  Additionally,  most  pro- 
grams can  be  obtained  on  standard  8"  CP/M  floppy  disks  for  systems  running  under  MBASIC. 


BUSINESS  and  UTILITIES 

MAIL  LIST  II  (North  Star  only)  Price:  $21.95 

This  many-featured  program  now  includes  full  alphabetic  and  zip  code  toning  as  well  as  file  merging. 
Entries  can  be  retrieved  by  user -defined  code,  client  name  or  Zip  Code.  The  printout  format  allows  the 
use  of  standard  size  address  labels.  Each  diskette  can  store  more  than  1 100  entries  (single  density;  over 
2200  with  double  density  systems)! 

TEXT  EDITOR  I  (Letter  Writer)  Price:  $14.95  Cassette 

$18.95  Diskette 
An  easy  to  use,  line-oriented  text  editor  which  provides  variable  line  widths  and  simple  paragraph  in- 
dexing, This  text  editor  is  ideally  suited  for  composing  letters  and  is  quite  capable  of  handling  much 
larger  jobs. 

FINDIT  (North  Star  only)  Price:  $19.95 

This  is  a  three-in-one  program  which  maintains  information  accessible  by  keywords  of  three  types:  Per- 
sonal (e.g.,  last  name),  Commercial  (eg:  plumbers)  and  Reference  (eg:  magazine  articles,  record 
albums,  etc).  In  addition  to  keyword  searches,  there  are  birthday,  anniversary  and  appointment  sear- 
ches for  the  personal  records  and  appointment  searches  for  the  commercial  records.  Reference  records 
are  accessed  by  a  single  keyword  or  by  cross-referencing  two  or  three  keywords. 

DFILE  (North  Star  only)  Price:  $19.95 

This  handy  program  allows  North  Star  users  to  maintain  a  specialized  data  base  of  all  files  and  pro- 
grams in  the  stack  of  disks  which  invariably  accumulates.  DFILE  is  easy  to  set  up  and  use.  It  will 
organize  your  disks  to  provide  efficient  locating  of  the  desired  file  or  program. 

COMPARE  (North  Star  only)  Price:  $12.95 

COMPARE  is  a  single  disk  utility  software  package  which  compares  two  BASIC  programs  and 
displays  the  file  sizes  of  the  programs  in  bytes,  the  lengths  in  terms  of  the  number  of  statement  lines, 
and  the  line  numbers  at  which  various  listed  differences  occur.  COMPARE  permits  the  user  to  examine 
versions  of  his  software  to  verify  which  are  the  more  current,  and  to  clearly  identify  the  changes  made 
during  development. 

COMPRESS  (North  Star  only)  Price:  $12.95 

COMPRESS  is  a  single-disk  utility  program  which  removes  all  unnecessary  spaces  and  (optionally) 
REMark  statements  from  North  Star  BASIC  programs.  The  source  file  is  processed  one  line  at  a  time, 
thus  permitting  very  large  programs  to  be  compressed  using  only  a  small  amount  of  computer  memory. 
File  compressions  of  20-50%  are  commonly  achieved. 

GRAFIX  (TRS-80  only)  Price:  $12.95  Cassette 

$16.95  Diskette 

This  unique  program  allows  you  to  easily  create  graphics  directly  from  the  keyboard.  You  "draw" 
your  figure  using  the  program's  extensive  cursor  controls,  Once  the  figure  is  made,  it  is  automatically 
appended  to  your  BASIC  program  as  a  string  variable.  Draw  a  "happy  face",  call  it  HS  and  then  print 
it  from  your  program  using  PRINT  HSI  This  is  a  very  easy  way  to  create  and  save  graphics. 

TIDY  (TRS-80  only)  Price:  $10.95  Cassette 

$14.95  Diskette 

TIDY  is  an  assembly  language  program  which  allows  you  to  renumber  the  lines  in  your  BASIC  pro- 
grams. TIDY  also  removes  unnecessary  spaces  and  REMark  statements.  The  result  is  a  compacted 
BASIC  program  which  uses  much  less  memory  space  and  executes  significantly  faster.  Once  loaded, 
TIDY  remains  in  memory;  you  may  load  any  number  of  BASIC  programs  without  having  to  reload 
TIDY! 


SIMULATIONS  and  EDUCATION 

BLACK  HOLE  (Apple  only)  Price:  $14.95  Cassette 

$18.95  Diskette 

This  is  an  exciting  graphical  simulation  of  the  problems  involved  in  closely  observing  a  black  hole  with 
a  space  probe,  The  object  is  to  enter  and  maintain,  for  a  prescribed  time,  an  orbit  close  to  a  small  black 
hole.  This  is  to  be  achieved  without  coming  so  near  the  anomaly  that  the  tidal  stress  destroys  the  probe, 
Control  of  the  craft  is  realistically  simulated  using  side  jets  for  rotation  and  main  thrusters  for  accelera- 
tion. This  program  employs  Hi-Res  graphics  and  is  educational  as  well  as  challenging. 

VALDEZ  Price:  $14.95  Cassette 

$18.95  Diskette 

A  simulation  of  supertanker  navigation  in  the  Prince  William  Sound  and  Valdez  Narrows.  The  pro- 
gram uses  an  extensive  256X256  element  radar  map  and  employs  physical  models  of  ship  response  and 
tidal  patterns.  Chart  your  own  course  through  ship  and  iceberg  traffic.  Any  standard  terminal  may  be 
used  for  display. 

FLIGHT  SIMULATOR  Price:  $17.95  Cassette 

$21.95  Diskette 

A  realistic  and  extensive  mathematical  simulation  of  take-off,  flight  and  landing.  The  program  utilizes 
aerodynamic  equations  and  the  characteristics  of  a  real  airfoil.  You  can  practice  instrument  approaches 
and  navigation  using  radials  and  compass  headings.  The  more  advanced  flyer  can  also  perform  loops, 
half-rolls  and  similar  aerobatic  maneuvers. 

TEACHER'S  PET:  I  Price:  $  9.95  Cassette 

S13.95  Diskette 

This  is  the  first  of  DYNACOMP's  educational  packages.  Primarily  intended  for  pre-school  to  grade  3, 
TEACHER'S  PET  provides  the  young  student  with  counting  practice,  letter-word  recognition  and 
three  levels  of  math  skill  exercises. 


Ordering  Information 

All  orders  are  processed  and  shipped  postpaid  within  48  hours.  Please  enclose  payment  with  order  along 
with  computer  information.  If  paying  by  VISA  or  Master  Card,  include  all  numbers  on  card.  For  orders 
outside  North  America  add  10ft  for  shipping  and  handling. 

Add  S3. 00  for  8"  floppy  disk  (soft  sectored,  CP/M,  Microsoft  BASIC) 

Deduct  10%  when  ordering  3  or  more  programs. 

Ask  for  DYNACOMP  programs  at  your  local  software  dealer.  Write  for  detailed  descriptions  of  these  and 
other  programs  from  DYNACOMP. 

DYNACOMP,  Inc. 

6  Rippingale  Road 
Pittsford,  New  York  14534 

(716)  586-7579 

New  York  SIBtc  raJdemj  pkw  idd  7W  NYS  uka  in 


r     MORE  FOR  YOUR     1 

RADIO  SHACK 

TRS-80  MODEL  I  ! 

THE  DATAHANDLER 

DATABASE  MANAGEMENT 
SYSTEM  IN  MMSFORTH 

Now  the  power,  speed  and  compactness  of 
MMSFORTH  drive  a  major  applications  pro- 
gram for  many  of  YOUR  home,  school  and 
business  tasks!  Imagine  a  sophisticated 
database  management  system  with  flexibili- 
ty to  create,  maintain  and  print  mailing  lists 
with  multiple  address  lines.  Canadian  or  the 
new  9-digit  U.S.  ZIP  codes,  and  multiple 
phone  numbers,  plus  the  speed  to  load  hun- 
dreds of  records  or  sort  them  on  several 
fields  in  5  seconds!  Manage  inventories  with 
selection  by  any  character  or  combination. 
Balance  checkbook  records  and  do  CONDI- 
TIONAL reporting  of  expenses  or  other  cal- 
culations. File  any  records  and  recall 
selected  ones  with  optional  upper/lower 
case  match,  in  standard  or  custom  formats. 
Personnel,  membership  lists,  bibliographies, 
catalogs  of  record,  stamp  and  coin  collec- 
tions—you name  it!  ALL  INSTANTLY,  with- 
out wasted  bytes,  and  with  cueing  from 
screen  so  good  that  non-programmers  quick- 
ly master  its  use!  With  manual,  sample  data 
files  and  custom  words  for  mail  list  and 
checkbook  use. 

Technical:  Handles  data  as  compressed  in- 
dexed sequential  subfiles  of  up  to  25K  char- 
acters (9K  in  32K  RAM).  Access  1-4  data 
diskettes.  Modified  Quicksort.  Optionally 
precomiles  for  5-second  program  load.  Self- 
adjusts  for  many  routine  mods.  Structured 
and  modular  MMSFORTH  source  code  ideal 
for  custom  modifications. 

THE  DATAHANDLER  V1.1,  a  very  sop- 
histicated database  management  system 
operable  by  non-programmers  (requires  Disk 
MMSFORTH,  1  drive  &  32K  RAM);  with 
manuals $59.95* 


FORTH 


THE  PROFESSIONAL  FORTH 
FOR  TRS-80  MODEL  I 

(Over  1,000  systems  in  use) 

MMSFORTH   Disk  System  V1.9  (requires  1 

disk  drive  &  16K  RAM) just  $79.95* 

MMSFORTH  Cassette  System  V1.8  (requires 
Level  II  BASIC  &  16K  RAM) $59.95* 

AND  MMS  GIVES  IT 
PROFESSIONAL  SUPPORT 

Source  code  provided 
MMSFORTH  Newsletter 
Many  demo  programs  aboard 
MMSFORTH  User  Groups 
Programming  staff  can  adapt 
THE  DATAHANDLER  to  YOUR  needs. 

MMSFORTH  UTILITIES  DISKETTE:  includes 
FLOATING  POINT  MATH  (L.2  BASIC  ROM 
routines  plus  Complex  numbers, 
Rectangular-Polar  coordinate  conversions, 
Degrees  mode,  more),  plus  a  full  Forth-style 
Z80  ASSEMBLER;  plus  a  powerful  CROSS- 
REFERENCER  to  list  Forth  words  by  block 
and  line.  All  on  one  diskette  (requires 
MMSFORTH,  1  drive  &  16K  RAM),  . .  $39.95* 

FORTH  BOOKS  AVAILABLE 

MICROFORTH    PRIMER    —    comes    with 

MMSFORTH;  separately $15.00* 

USING  FORTH  —  more  detailed  and  advanc- 
ed than  above $25.00* 

URTH  TUTORIAL  MANUAL  —  very  readable 

intra,  to  U/Rochester  Forth $19.95* 

CALTECH  FORTH  MANUAL  —  good  on 
Forth  internal  structure,  etc $6.95* 

*  —  Software  prices  are  for  single-system 
user  license  and  include  manuals.  Add  $2.00 
S/H  plus  $1.00  per  additional  book;  Mass. 
orders  add  5%  tax.  Foreign  orders  add  15%. 
UPS  COD,  VISA  &  M/C  accepted;  no  unpaid 
purchase  orders,  please. 

Send  SASE  for  tree  MMSFORTH  information. 
Good  dealers  sought. 

Get  MMSFORTH  products  from  your 
computer  dealer  or 

MILLER  MICROCOMPUTER 
SERVICES  (B2) 

61  Lake  Shore  Road,  Natick,  MA  01760 
(617)653-6136 


to  the  average  number  of  options  at  each  choice  raised  to 
a  power  equal  to  the  depth  of  the  search  tree.  For  exam- 
ple, consider  the  game  of  chess,  which  averages  thirty- 
eight  options  at  each  choice  point.  A  minimax  search 
considering  a  look-ahead  of  four  moves  for  each  player 
would  have  38"  terminal  positions.  That  is  more  than  4 
trillion  (4,000,000,000,000)  positions. 

You  do  not  have  to  be  a  mathematical  genius  in  order 
to  determine  that  a  process  that  grows  exponentially  like 
this  one  is  going  to  get  out  of  control  very  quickly. 
Because  of  this  exponential  explosion  and  because  there 
were  no  computers  in  the  1940s,  the  minimax  algorithm 
initially  received  little  attention. 


In  practical  terms,  the  first  player 
always  maximizes,  the  second  player 
always  minimizes. 


The  Alpha-Beta  Technique 

In  1956,  at  the  Dartmouth  Summer  Research  Con- 
ference on  Artificial  Intelligence  (see  reference  1),  John 
McCarthy  pointed  out  that  Bernstein's  chess  program  did 
not  need  to  analyze  all  of  the  terminal  positions  in  order 
to  select  the  move  that  was  best  in  terms  of  the  minimax 
strategy. 

Although  no  formal  description  of  the  idea  was  given 
at  that  time,  several  of  the  game-playing  programs  writ- 
ten in  the  late  1950s  appear  to  have  employed  an  enhanc- 
ed version  of  the  minimax  procedure,  which  has  come  to 
be  called  the  a-/3  (ie:  alpha-beta)  pruning  algorithm.  The 
name  seems  to  have  been  coined  by  McCarthy. 

The  first  clear  description  of  the  technique  for  English- 
speaking  audiences  was  published  in  1969  by  Slagle  and 
Dixon  (see  reference  3).  The  a-/3  procedure  provides  a 
remarkable  increase  in  the  efficiency  of  the  search  pro- 
cess; and,  with  the  advent  of  the  high-speed  computer  in 
the  late  1960s  and  1970s,  the  minimax  idea  finally  came 
of  age. 

Although  there  are  many  references  to  the  a-|8 
minimax  technique  in  the  popular  literature,  the  pro- 
cedure has  not  received  much  detailed  analysis  in  the 
academic  literature.  The  best  expository  presentation  on 
this  topic  is  a  recent  paper  by  Knuth  and  Moore  (see 
reference  1).  The  technical  details  that  enhance  the  effi- 
ciency of  the  a-@  strategy  are  scattered  throughout  a 
number  of  hard-to-find  sources.  The  purpose  of  this  arti- 
cle is  to  summarize  the  main  ideas  and  to  present  a  sam- 
ple program  with  the  key  algorithms. 

Treasure  Search 

To  provide  an  explicit  example,  I  have  devised  a  new 
game  that  is  easy  to  play  and  is  easily  programmed.  One 
of  the  difficulties  of  describing  the  ct-0  minimax  pro- 
cedure within  the  context  of  a  familiar  game  is  that  move 
generation  and  position  evaluation  are  sufficiently  com- 
plex that  these  aspects  of  the  program  tend  to  mask  the 
fine  points  of  the  a-0  search.  The  game  we  will  consider 
involves  very  straightforward  move-generation  and 
position-evaluation  routines.   For  this  reason,  we  will  be 


An  Extraordinary  Offer  to  introduce  you  to  the  benefits  of  Membership  in 

ELECTRONICS  BOOK  CLUB 


invites  you  to  take 
this  1,442-page 
omputer  Library 
for  only 


$A95 


A  complete  guide  to  modern  microprocessor/microcomputer 
troubleshooting  and  servicing  that  shows  you  how  to  do  it  all . . . 
how  to  understand  and  troubleshoot  digital/logic  and  micro- 
processor circuits,  how  to  dig  into  their  operating  systems,  and 
how  to  locate  and  repair  problems  quickly  and  easily.  You'll  learn 
about  binary  codes,  system  interfacing,  input/output  devices, 
flowcharts,  using  oscilloscopes,  logic  probes,  etc.,  when  troub- 
leshooting, testing,  and  repairing  TTL  logic  gates,  clock  pulses, 
random-access  memories.  CPU's.  VCR's,  videodisc  players, 
complete  minicomputer  systems  like  the  TRS-80,  TV  games,  TV 
tuners  308  pps ..  229  illus.  List  (12.95 


Handbook  Of  Microprocessor  Applications 


How  to  use  microprocessors  in  a  wide  variety  of  applications . . . 
including  interfacing  and  using  machine  language  program- 
ming! Clearly  explains  and  examines  the  concepts  crucial  to  the 
use  of  microprocessors  and  fully  details  every  phase  of  logic  and 
machine  decisions:  Boolean  algebra,  the  truth  table,  OR,  NOR, 
AND  and  NAND  functions,  etc.  Learn  to  document  and  analyze  a 
problem,  locate  any  given  step,  calculate  forward  jumps,  use 
timing  loops,  calculate  delays  and  more.  State  machines, 
input/output  functions,  data  buses,  ROM  and  RAM.  This  book  is 
practical ...  and  focuses  on  the  how-to  of  using  microprocessor 
chips.  308  pps.,  94  illus.  List  $14  95 


The  BASIC  Cookbook 


A  complete  dictionary  of  all  BASIC  statements,  commands,  and 
functions— with  programming  examples  and  flowcharts— 
thoroughly  defines  the  BASIC  vocabulary,  illustrates  the  defini- 
tions with  sample  programs,  and  clarifies  the  programs  with 
matching  flowcharts.  You'll  learn  how  to  use  each  BASIC  term  in 
a  workable  program.  ARRAY,  COS,  END,  FOR-TO,  GOSUB,  INPUT, 
LIST,  RANDOMIZE,  REM,  SCRATCH,  SGN,  SQR,  TAN.  It  also  defines 
programming  terms  that  apply  to  APL.  ALGOL,  COBOL,  FORTRAN, 
RPG,  PL1,  and  other  languages.  140  pps.,  49  illus.  List  (7.95 


A  programmer's  guide  to  using  Pascal,  Tiny  Pascal  and  Super- 
soft  Tiny  Pascal  .  .  .  including  actual  programs  and  helpful 
exercisesl  Starting  with  how  to  load  a  Tiny  Pascal  cassette  into  a 
TRS-80  system,  goes  through  all  the  steps  necessary  to  become 
proficient  in  this  new  language.  Learn  to  read  syntax  diagrams; 
use  WRITE  statements  to  print  characters  and  do  TRS-80 
graphics;  enter  integers  with  READ  statements;  use  logic  with 
AND,  OR  and  NOT,  etc.  You'll  also  find  out  how  to  put  together 
complete  READ  and  WRITE  programs,  and  use  repetitive  (loop- 
ing) statements  to  write  unending  loops  .  .  .  plus  how  to 
"goof-proof"  entries.  350  pps.,  106  illus.  List  (15.95 


1001  Things  lo  Do  With  Your  Pmona 


Over  1,000  time-saving,  money-saving,  effort-saving  and  just- 
plain-fun  applications— with  actual  programs,  printouts,  flow- 
charts, diagrams  and  illustrations.  Twelve  Chapters  contain 
programs  for  any  use  and  taste,  and  applications  for  everyone: 
business  and  financial  mathematical,  technical  and  scientific, 
educational,  statistical,  control  and  peripheral,  hobbies  and 
games.  Includes  a  shorthand  translator,  weather  forecasting, 
precise  values  for  camera  settings,  animated  films,  model 
railroads,  controlling  household  devices  like  wood  stoves,  Morse 
code,  almost  100  games .  336  pps..  100  illus.  List  (12.95 


Let  us  send  you  this  5-volume,    1,442  page 
Computer  Library  as  part  of  an  unusual  offer  I 
of  a  Trial  Membership  in  Electronics  Book  Club. 

Here  are  quality  hardbound  volumes,  each  I 
especially  designed  to  help  you  increase  your  | 
know-how,  earning  power,  and  enjoyment  of  elec- 
tronics and  computers.  Whatever  your  interest 
in  electronics/computers,  you'll  find  Electronics 
Book  Club  offers  practical,  quality  books  that  you 
can  put  to  immediate  use  and  benefit. 

This  extraordinary  offer  is  intended  to  prove 
to  you,  through  your  own  experience,  that  these 
very  real  advantages  can  be  yours  .  .  .  that  it  is 
possible  to  keep  up  with  the  literature  published 
in  your  areas  of  interest,  and  to  save  substantially 
while  so  doing.  As  part  of  your  Trial  Membership, 
you  need  purchase  as  few  as  four  books  during 


/ 
/ 
/ 


Only  $2.95  for 
ALL  FIVE! 

Regular  List 
Price  $64.75 

Top-Quality 

Hardbinding 

Contains  the 
very  latest 
info  on 
computers! 

Over  500 
illustrations 

Contains  over 
275,000  words 

1442  data- 
packed  pages 


the  coming  12  months.  You  would  probably  buy  at 
least  this  many  anyway,  without  the  substantial 
savings  offered  through  Club  Membership. 

To  start  your  Membership  on  these  attrac- 
tive terms,  simply  fill  out  and  mail  the  coupon  to- 
day. You  will  receive  the  5-volume  Computer 
Library  for  10-day  inspection. YOU  NEED  SEND 
NO  MONEY.  If  you're  not  delighted,  return  the 
books  within  10  days  and  your  Trial  Membership 
will  be  cancelled  without  cost  or  obligation. 

ELECTRONICS  BOOK  CLUB,  Blue  Ridge  Summit,  Pa.  17214 


Facts  About  Club  Membership 


•  The  5  introductory  books  carry  a  publishers  retail  price  of 
$6475.  They  are  yours  for  only  $2.95  for  all  5  (plus  postage/ 
handling)  with  your  Trial  Membership. 

•  You  will  receive  the  Club  News,  describing  the  current  Selec- 
tion, Alternates,  and  other  books,  every  4  weeks  (13*  a  year) 

•  If  you  want  the  Selection,  do  nothing;  it  will  be  sent  to  you 
automatically  If  you  do  not  wish  to  receive  the  Selection,  or  if  you 
want  to  order  one  of  the  many  Alternates  offered,  you  simply  give 
instructions  on  the  reply  form  (and  in  the  envelope)  provided, 
and  return  it  to  us  by  the  date  specified  This  date  allows  you  at 
least  10  days  in  which  to  return  the  form  If.  because  of  late  mail 
delivery,  you  do  not  have  10  days  to  make  a  decision  and  so 
receive  an  unwanted  Selection,  you  may  return  it  at  Club  ex- 
pense 

•  To  complete  your  Trial  Membership,  you  need  buy  only  four 
additional  monthly  Selections  or  Alternates  during  the  next  12 
months  You  may  cancel  your  Membefship  any  time  after  you 
purchase  these  four  books 

•  All  books  — including  the  Introductory  Offer  — are  fully  return- 
able after  10  days  if  you're  not  completely  satisfied 

•  All  books  are  offered  at  low  Member  prices  plus  a  small 
postage  and  handling  charge 

•  Continuing  Bonus:  If  you  continue  after  this  Trial  Membership, 
you  will  earn  a  Dividend  Certificate  for  every  book  you  purchase. 
Three  Certificates  plus  payment  of  the  nominal  sum  of  $1  99  will 
entitle  you  to  a  valuable  Book  Dividend  of  your  choice  which  you 
may  choose  from  a  list  provided  Members. 


ELECTRONICS  BOOK  CLUB 

Blue  Ridge  Summit,  Pa.  17214 

Please  open  my  Trial  Membership  in  ELEC- 
TRONICS BOOK  CLUB  and  send  my  5-volume 
Computer  Library,  invoicing  me  for  only  $2.95 
plus  shipping.  If  not  delighted,  I  may  return  the 
books  within  10  days  and  owe  nothing,  and 
have  my  Trial  Membership  cancelled.  I  agree 
to  purchase  at  least  four  additonal  books  dur- 
ing the  next  12  months  after  which  I  may 
cancel  my  membership  at  any  time. 


Name. 


. Phone. 


Address_ 


City_ 


State. 


.Zip. 


(Valid  for  new  Members  only.  Foreign  and  Canada  add  15";  >.)  BY-  II 80 


Circle  156  on  Inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


247 


able  to  concentrate  on  the  tree-searching  algorithm  in  the 
absence  of  unwanted  distractions. 

This  new  game  is  called  Treasure  Search  and  is  played 
on  an  8-by-8  grid.  A  digit  between  1  and  9  is  randomly 
assigned  to  each  of  the  sixty-four  squares.  Each  contes- 
tant has  a  single  playing  piece  which  is  initially  posi- 
tioned in  the  central  portion  of  the  grid.  The  players  take 
turns  moving  their  pieces.  A  piece  can  be  moved  only  one 
square  at  a  time  in  one  of  four  orthogonal  directions  (ie: 
north,  south,  east,  or  west).  The  object  of  the  game  is  to 


Treasure  Search  4 

8    6     17 

5    8 

9    6 

4    9    5    6 

2    6 

9    1 

George 

4     14    6 

4    7 

4     1 

0 

9    1     4     * 

7    5 

3    5 

6    2    5    9 

X    4 

4    4 

TRS-80 

5    9    9    3 

4    8 

8    1 

0 

3    7    6    2 

4    5 

1     8 

8    8    6    4 

6    9 

1     3 

Which  Direction  for  X? 

Table  1:  Starting  position  for  Treasure  Search.  The  human 
player  moves  the  "X"  one  square  at  a  time  and  attempts  to 
collect  as  many  big  numbers  as  possible.    The  computer 
moves  the  "*"  on  alternate  turns  with  the  same  objective. 
The  first  player  to  accumulate  one  hundred  points  wins. 

We  have  discounts,   manufacturer's  war- 
ranties, FREE  shipping  and  insurance  and  a 
TOLL    FREE    ORDER     NUMBER     available. 
CALLUS! 

Pan  American  Electronics 

Incorporated  

£Q]   a  Radio  Shack      ~~"™ 


VISA' 


AUTHORIZED    SALES    CENTER 


1117  Conway,  Mission,  Texas  78572 

TOLL  FREE  ORDER  NUMBER  800/531-7466 

Texas  &  Principal  Number  512/581-2765 


visit  squares  where  a  large  number  has  been  assigned  and 
to  collect  as  many  of  these  as  possible.  Once  a  number 
has  been  taken  from  a  square,  that  location  is  empty  and 
subsequent  visits  provide  no  additional  benefits.  The  first 
player  to  accumulate  one  hundred  or  more  points  wins 
the  game. 

Table  1  depicts  the  playing  board  as  it  might  appear  at 
the  start  of  the  game.  The  human  player  has  the  token 
designated  as  "X"  and  always  moves  first.  Move  selection 
is  made  by  pressing  one  of  the  four  arrow  keys 
(  — ,—  ,t,J)  on  the  computer  keyboard.  The  program  I 
will  present  is  written  for  the  Radio  Shack  TRS-80  com- 
puter in  Level  II  BASIC. 

The  Treasure  Search  Game 

The  specific  numbers  that  appear  in  table  1  are  set  ran- 
domly at  the  beginning  of  each  game;  therefore,  a  new 
playing  field  is  present  for  each  and  every  game.  The 
strategy  for  each  player  is  to  find  a  pathway  in  which  he 
can  collect  large  numbers  for  himself  and  at  the  same  time 
deny  large  numbers  to  his  opponent.  The  game  was 
originally  planned  for  young  children.  I  have  subsequent- 
ly found  that  it  is  fun  for  children  of  all  ages. 

To  begin  my  presentation,  I  will  provide  a  listing  of  the 
computer  instructions  for  creating  the  playing  field  and 
accepting  moves  from  the  human  player.  Subsequently,  I 
will  present  the  algorithm  for  selecting  moves  for  the 
machine  and  then  discuss  enhancements  that  substantial- 
ly increase  the  efficiency  of  the  search. 

The  Program 

The  initial  statements  in  this  program  are  very  similar 
to  those  at  the  beginning  of  its  two  predecessors.  Certain 
housekeeping  functions  are  required,  such  as  setting  aside 
memory  for  string  storage,  clearing  the  video  display, 
telling  the  machine  to  treat  all  variables  as  integers,  reset- 
ting the  "seed"  for  the  random-number  generator,  and  in- 
itializing important  variables: 

100  CLEAR  100:  CLS:  DEFINT  A-Z:  RANDOM: 
SH  =  0:  ST  =  0 

(Several  versions  of  this  program  are  given  in  the  body  of 
the  text  and  in  listings  1  thru  3.)  The  variables  SH  and  ST 
represent  the  cumulative  score  for  the  human  and  the 
TRS-80,  respectively. 

Our  next  objective  is  to  solicit  the  human  player's 
name  so  that  we  can  communicate  with  him  in  a  civilized 
manner: 

110  PRINT@463,  "PLEASE  ENTER  YOUR  NAME";: 
INPUT  N$ 

The  next  step  is  to  create  several  arrays  that  will  be 
needed  by  the  program.  Two  arrays  are  needed  for 
remembering  move  directions  (A  and  D),  one  is  needed  to 
provide  an  internal  representation  of  the  playing  field 
(B),  and  several  more  are  used  by  the  tree  search:  M 
stores  the  move  that  is  being  considered  at  each  level  of 
the  look-ahead  tree;  E  stores  the  evaluation  score  for  each 
of  those  moves;  Q  keeps  track  of  which  moves  have  been 
considered  at  each  level  of  the  tree;  V  keeps  track  of  the 
best    pathway    value   for   each    level    of    the    tree;    Z 


248       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  159  on  inquiry  card. 


The 
Software  Exchange 
has  it  all! 


gives  you 
these  fine 


phone  call 

-258-179 

access  to  all 


SOFTWARE 

Microsoft 

Apparat 

Racet 

Hayden 

Muse 

Ritam 

Softape 

Lance  Micklus 

Image 

Quality  Software 

Web  Associates 

Small  Systems  Software' 

On-Line  Systems 

Creative  Computing 

Personal  Software 

Scott  Adams 

Acorn  Software 

Synergistics 

Strategic  Simulations 

Automated  Simulations 

Avalon  Hill 

Micro  America 

Edu  Ware 

Instant  Software 

Interpro 

Micro  Auto  Systems 

Peripherals  Unlimited 

Program  Design 

Personal  Finance  Systems 

Small  Business  Systems  Group 

Syntonic 

Seabrees  Computing 


companies. 

(IN  NH  CALL  673-5144) 

HARDWARE 

Square  1 

Computer  Resources  Company 
Radio  Shack 
Commodore  Pet 
Atari 


BOOKS 

Hayden 

Wiley 

Scelbi 

Compusoft 

Dilithium 

Sams 

Radio  Shack 

SoftSide 

Addison  Wesley 

International  Jewelers 

Dome  Publishing 


Percom 

Centronics 

NEC 

Sun 

Okidata 

Source/TeleComputing 

Computer  Case  Co. 

MicroMint 

Eaton  LRC 

Cover  Craft 

BSR 

BASF 

Corvus 

Archbold  Electronics 

ESP 

Novation 

AMP  Recording  Studios 

Dysan 


TheScttwate  Exchange  ■  south  j  m,LforD,  nh  03055   CS 

To  order:  Call  Toil-Free  1-800-258-1790  on  nh  «//  imwi-sw) 


The  Software  Exchange  &  HardSide  (Div   of  Robnaille  &  Sons,  Enterprises.  Inc .).  SottSide  Publications 


Circle  160  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980         249 


Circle  161  on  inquiry  card. 


^x: 


CP/A 


OPTIMIZED  SYSTEMS 
SOFTWARE 

PRESENTS 

CONTROL  PROGRAM/APPLE 
the  DOS  you  have  been  waiting  for 

OSS  CP/A  is  an  all  new,  disk-based 
operating  system  which  provides 
commands  and  utilities  similar  to 
CP/M®.  CP/A  has  byte  and  block  I/O,  a 
simple  assembly  language  interface, 
and  direct  access  via  Note  and  Point. 
And  it's  easy  to  add  your  own  com- 
mands or  device  handlers.  CP/A  is 
expandable,  flexible,  consistent, 
easy-to-use  and  available  now  with 
compatible  program  products: 

BASIC  —  Some  of  the  features  of  OSS 
BASIC  are  syntax  checking  on  program 
entry,  true  decimal  arithmetic  (great  for 
money  applications),  32K  byte  string  sizes, 
flexible  I/O,  long  variable  names  (up  to  255 
significant  characters),  and  the  ability  to  get 
and  put  single  bytes. 

BUSINESS  BASIC  WITH  PRINT  USING  — 

This  is  virtually  the  only  basic  available  on 
the  Apple  that  has  PRINT  USING.  It  also 
has  record  I/O  statements  and  all  the 
features  of  our  standard  BASIC. 

EDITOR/ASSEMBLER/DEBUG  —  OSS 

EASMD  is  a  total  machine  language  de- 
velopment package.  The  editor  provides 
functions  like  FIND,  REPLACE,  etc.  The 
assembler  uses  standard  6502  mnemon- 
ics, can  include  multiple  files  in  one  assem- 
bly, and  can  place  the  object  code  in 
memory  or  to  a  disk  file. 

Prices  of  CP/A  with: 

BASIC  $  69.95 

Business  BASIC   84.95 

EASMD  69.95 

BASIC  +  EASMD 109.95 

Business  BASIC  +  EASMD   ....  124.95 

Requires  48K  RAM  and  DISK 

Add  $3.50  for  shipping  and  handling  in  continental  USA. 
California  residents  add  6%.  VISA/Master  Charge  wel- 
come. Personal  checks  require  two  weeks  to  clear. 

SEE  YOUR  DEALER  or  ORDER  TODAY 


OPTIMIZED  SYSTEMS  SOFTWARE 
is  a  product  of 

Shepardson  Microsystems,  Inc. 

20395  Pacifica  Dr.,  Suite  108B 

Cupertino,  CA  95014 

(408)  257-9900 


remembers  a  "killer"  move  for  each  level  of  the  tree  (this 
is  explained  later  in  this  article);  and  PV  is  used  to 
remember  the  principal  variation  that  is  selected  by  the 
tree  search.  The  lines  we  will  need  are: 

120  DIM  A(8),  B(99),  D(4),  E(12),  M(12) 
130  DIM  PV(12/12),  Q(12),  V(12),  Z(12) 

The  array  representing  the  playing  field,  B,  is  treated  as 
a  10-by-10  grid  with  the  first  row  having  indices  of  0  to  9, 
the  second  row,  10  to  19,  the  third  row  20  to  29,  etc.  With 
this  organization,  the  "squares"  adjacent  to  any  position 
are  always  separated  by  a  constant  value.  The  square  to 
the  right  is  always  the  current  square  plus  1.  The  square 
to  the  left  is  always  the  current  square  minus  1.  To  go  up, 
add  10;  to  go  down,  subtract  10.  For  move  generation, 
we  create  an  array  with  the  following  coefficients: 

140  D(l)  =  -10:  D(2)  =   -1:  D(3)  -  1:  D(4)  =  10 

We  will  use  a  special  feature  of  the  TRS-80's  architec- 
ture to  produce  moves  for  the  human  player.  A  special 
array  is  needed  to  take  advantage  of  the  fact  that  the 
keyboard  is  memory -mapped. 


150  A(l)  =  10:  A(2)  = 
A(8)  =  1:  CLS 


10:  A(4)  =   -1: 


Since  our  program  is  designed  for  children  of  all  ages, 
we  will  let  the  human  player  adjust  the  playing  strength 
of  the  machine.  Young  children  can  play  against  a  weak 
opponent.  Older  children  can  select  a  more  competitive 
opponent. 

160  PRINT@461,  'TRS-80  PLAYING  STRENGTH 
(1T0  5)";:INPUTY 

The  larger  the  number,   the  deeper  we  will  have  the 
machine  search. 

The  variable  DM  is  used  to  set  the  maximum  depth  of 
the  look-ahead  search.  It  is  defined  as  twice  the  value  Y 
minus  1.  This  will  produce  searches  of  one  ply,  three 
plies,  five  plies,  seven  plies,  and  nine  plies  for  playing- 
strength  settings  from  1  to  5.  A  five-ply  search  involves 
three  moves  for  the  machine  and  two  for  the  human  op- 
ponent. [A  ply  is  a  move  by  either  opponent;  the  com- 
bination of  one  move  by  both  sides  is  called  a  play  or  a 
turn;  thus  two  plies  equal  one  move.  .  .  GW]  It  is  also 
necessary  to  create  the  array  that  provides  an  internal 
representation  of  the  playing  field.  This  is  done  by  assign- 
ing a  digit  from  1  to  9  to  each  of  the  squares  in  the  playing 
area: 

170  DM  =  2*Y:  FOR  I  =  11  TO  88: 
B(I)  =  RND(9):  NEXT  I 

The  squares  that  surround  the  grid  are  used  to 
designate  the  edge  of  the  board  and  are  set  to  a  value  of 
99  for  this  purpose: 

180  FOR  I  =  0  TO  10:  B(I)  =  99:  NEXT  I: 
FOR  I  =  89  TO  99:  B(I)  =  99:  NEXT  I 

190  FOR  I  =  19  TO  79  STEP  10:  B(I)  =  99: 
B(I  +  1)  =  99:  NEXT  I 


250       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Lie 


Happy  customers  are  fast 
making  Single  &  Multi- 
User  oasis  recognized  as 
the  super  system  software. 
but,  system  software  is  only 
as  good  as  the  applica- 
tions it  runs.  And  that's 
where  oasis  really  cooks. 

Application  software 
developers  particularly 
like  oasis  because  it 
lets  them  blend  unique 
performance  features  with 
their  own  products — in 
other  words,  build  better 
software.  Security  features 
like  User  Accounting  with 
Logon,  Password  and 
Privilege  Level;  File  and 
Automatic  Record  Locking; 
Private,  Shared  and 
Public  Files.  Speed  and 
convenience  of  Keyed 
Index  (ISAM)  Files.  Economy 
from  Compiled  Re-Entrant 
basic  that  makes  multi-user 
systems  practical  on  as 
little  as  64K  memory.  And 
lots  more. 


B 


ecause  oasis  has  better 
development  tools — 
and  more  of  them — 
creating  very  sophisticated 
software  is  possible, 
practical,  easier,  faster.  Just 
one  example:  basic  that  is 
an  Interpreter  and  Compiler 
with  Debugger  and 
Editor.  If  you  do  your  own 
development,  you'll  really 
appreciate  these  kinds 
of  features.  For  software 


professionals,  they  make 
providing  superior  products 
much  more  cost  attractive. 

Add  all  the  ingredients 
i  together  and,  whether 
you  do  it  yourself  or  buy  it 
off  the  shelf,  the  pay-off 
is  a  wide  selection  of  top- 
performing,  top-quality 
application  software  that 
does  more  so  you  do  less. 

oasis;  Single  or  Multi- 
User  with  a  sizzling  array 
of  features  and  tools; 
almost  unlimited  software 
possibilities  (and  applica- 
tion software  for  Single- 
User  oasis  is  Multi-User 
compatible);  the  most 
extensive  documentation  in 
the  industry — indeed,  you 
get  a  lot  to  like.  And  that's 
put  oasis  System  Software* 
among  the  hottest  products 
on  the  market. 

Drop  us  a  line  today 
for  a  complete,  free 
Application  Software 
Directory.  And  see  your 
oasis  Distributor,  or  send 
the  coupon  direct,  to  get 
the  products  you  want.  Try 
us.  We  believe  you'll  savor 
the  oasis  recipe. 

*  For  Z80  based  computers 


APPLICATION  SOFTWARE  AVAILABLE 
FOR  OASIS: 

Accounts  Payable;  Accounts  Receivable; 
General  Ledger;  Mail  List  Pak;  Order  Entry/ 
Inventory  Control;  Inventory  Tracking  Pak; 
Word  Processors. 

Architects  &  Pro  Designers  Timekeeping 
&  Job  Cost  Analysis;  Cable  TV  Subscriber 
Billing  Sys;  Construction  Mgt  Pak; 
Construction  Pak;  Contractors  Tracking  Pak; 
Distributors  Pak;  Dental  Office  Mgt  Pak; 
Medical  Billing  Sys;  Pharmacy  Prescription 
Processing  with  A/R;  Management  Analysis 
Pak;  Real  Estate  Office  Mgt;  Restaurant  Pak: 
Sewer  &  Water  Utility  Info  Pak. 
Bisyncronous  Communication  Pak;  2780/ 
3780/3270  Emulators;  File  S  Screen  Mgr 
with  Report  Generator;  Full  Network  Data 
Base  Mgt  Sys;  Game  Pak;  Hierarchical 
Data  Base  Mgt  Sys;  Radlogs  (Radio  Station 
Logs/ Schedules/ Programming/Billing  with 
A/R,  A/PG/L. 

THESE  ITEMS  ARE  NOT  AVAILABLE 
DIRECT  FROM  PHASE  ONE  SYSTEMS, 
INC.  —please  write  for  ordering  instructions 
and  complete,  free  Application  Software 
Directory.  If  you  have  items  you  would  like 
listed  in  the  Directory,  send  us  complete 
information.) 


OASIS  IS  AVAILABLE  FOR 

SYSTEMS;  Altos;  Compucorp;  Cromemco; 
Delta  Products;  Digital  Group;  Digital 
Microsystems;  Dynabyte;  Godbout;  IBC; 
Index;  Intersystems;  North  Star;  Onyx; 
SD  Systems;  TRS  80  Mod  II;  Vector 
Graphic:  Vorimex. 

CONTROLLERS:  Bell  Controls;  Cameo; 
Corvus;  Konan;  Micromation;  Micropolis; 
Tarbell;  Teletek;  Thinkertoys;  X  Comp. 


MAKES  MICROS 
RUN  LIKE  MINIS 


PLEASE  SEND  ME: 


Product 


OPERATING  SYSTEM 

(Includes: 
EXEC  Language; 
File  Management; 
User  Accounting; 
Device  Drivers; 
Print  Spooler; 
General  Text 
Editor;  etc.) 
SINGLE-USER 
MULTI-USER 


BASIC  COMPILER/ 
INTERPRETER/DEBUGGER 


RE-ENTRANT  BASIC 

COMPILER/INTERPRETER/ 

DEBUGGER 


DEVELOPMENT  PACKAGE 

(Macro  Assembler; 
Linkage  Editor; 
Debugger) 


Price 

with 

Manual 


Manual 
Only 


1150 
350 


TEXT  EDITOR  Si 
SCRIPT  PROCESSOR 


DIAGNOSTIC* 
CONVERSION  UTILITIES 

(Memory  Test; 
Assembly  Language; 
Converters;  File 
Recovery;  Disk  Test; 
File  Copy  from 
other  OS;  etc  ) 


COMMUNICATIONS 
PACKAGE 

(Terminal  Emulator; 
File  Send  &  Recei/e) 


PACKAGE  PRICE 

(All  of  Above) 

SINGLE-USER 

MULTI-USER 


FILE  SORT 


COBOL-ANSI  '74 


$17.50 
17.50 


500 
850 


60  00 
60  00 


Order  OASIS  from: 

Phase  One  Systems,  Inc. 

7700  Edgewater  Drive,  Suite  830 

Oakland,  CA  94621 

Telephone  (415)  562-8085 
TWX  910-366-7139 

NAME 

STREET  (NO  BOX  -) 

CITY 


.ZIP. 


STATE 

AMOUNTS 

(Attach  system  description; 

add  S3  for  shipping; 

California  residents  add  sales  tax) 

□  Check  enclosed    □  VISA 
D  UPS  C.O.D.    □  Mastercharge 

Card  Number 

Expiration  Date 

Signature 


Circle  162  on  inquiry  card. 


Announcing  the  most  important  utility 
ever  introduced  for  the  TRS-80*  Model  I 


and  Model  II— 


TM 


ENHBAS 


ENHBAS  is  an  Enhanced  Basic  extension 
module,  which  loads  at  the  top  of  BASIC,  add- 
ing many  commands  and  background  tasks- 
DOver  30  new  commands  added  to  your 
BASIC: 

•SORT-Multi-keying,  multi-tagging  array 
sort.  Sorts  thousands  of  items  in  mere 
seconds,  all  with  one  command! 

•JNAME-Use  line  labels  along  with  line 
numbers  in  branching  statements,  as  in 
assembly  language,  using  the  ENHBAS 
commands  GTO  and  CSUB  (special 
GOTO  and  GOSUB). 
How  many  times  have  you  wanted  to  use 
variables  to  reference  line  numbers?  Now 
you  can!  GTO  and  CSUB  allow  variable 
expressions  as  operands,  such  as  in 
GTO  X+40. 

•WHILE  /  WEND-New,  structured  pro- 
gramming loop  construct.  Makes  for  more 
logical  program  flow  (less  GOTO's). 

•EXEC  /  EVAL-Two  new,  extremely  pow 
erful  functions!  EVAL  evaluates  an  alge- 
braic expression  in  string  form.  With  EVAL 
you  can  manipulate  complex  functions  in 
string  form,  and  then  evaluate  them.  EXEC 
executes  a  string  expression  as  if  it  were 
a  BASIC  program  line!  With  EXEC,  your 
computer  can  actually  write  its  own  pro 
grams  and  execute  them! 

•CALL-Pass  control  to  machine  language 
subroutines  at  any  address,  passing  para- 
meters both  ways. 

•CLM  /  PAGE-Set  up  automatic  page 
roll-over  and  other  line  printer  functions 
from  BASIC. 

•Aff  these  and  many  more! 

Din  addition  to  the  above  commands,  Model  I 
ENHBAS  contains  vector  graphics  and 
drawing  commands.  Model  II  ENHBAS  has 
many  functions  suited  to  business  program- 
ming—ISAM file  handling  commands,  RS-232 
access,  and  many  more;  along  with  several 
Model  I  BASIC  commands  left  out  of  Model  II 
(PEEK,  POKE,  OUT,  etc.). 

DENHBAS  includes  many  background  util- 
ities (Model  I  version): 

•User-definable  cursor 
•Key  click 

•Two-tone  beep  on  error 
•Automatic  lower-case 
•Automatic  debounce 
•Short-entry  commands 
(Shift-letter  prints  command) 
•Real  Control  keys 
•One  letter  commands 
•Formatted  LIS  Tings 

ENHBAS  is  available  for: 

16K  Model  1-Level-II  Tape  $39.95 

32K  Model  I  Disk $39  95 

32K  Model  III  (avail.  1 1/1/80)   $39.95 

32K  Model  II  (on  TRSDOS  disk) $99.95 

•TRS-flO  is  a  reg.  trademark  of  Radio  Shack,  a  Tandy  Co. 


Other  software: 

CSG  PILOT-Disk-based,  high  level  language. 
32K  Model  I  Disk $59.95 

Z-EMULATOR-Executes  assem.  lang.  lines 

16K  Model  I— Level-II  Tape $29.95 

32K  Model  I  Disk $29.95 

ENHCOMP-lnteger  subset  BASIC  compiler. 

Full  graphics.  Requires  RS  Editor/ Assembler. 
32K  Model  I  Disk $24.95 

ABBREV  Level  I   abbrev.    in   Level-II/Disk. 

16K  Model  l-Level  II  Tape $24.95 

32K  Model  I  Disk $24.95 

Dealer  and  OEM  inquiries  invited. 


The  Comsoft  Group 

6008  N  Keystone  Ave.,  Dept.  B 
Indianapolis,  IN  46220 

(317) 257-3227 


The  playing  field  also  needs  to  be  presented  on  the  video 
display,  along  with  a  title  for  the  game: 

220  CLS:  FOR  I  =  11  TO  88:  IF  B(I)  =  99  THEN  240 
230  X$  =  RIGHTS  (STR$  (B(I),1):  GOSUB  1000 
240  NEXT  I:  PRINT@22,  'TREASURE  SEARCH";Y; 

The  subroutine  starting  at  line  1000  computes  a  loca- 
tion on  the  video  screen  (R  =  row;  C  =  column)  and 
prints  a  character  there: 

1000  R  =  INT  (1/10):  C  =  I-10*R: 

K  =  141  +  (8-R)*64  +  C*4 
1010  PRINT@K,  X$;:  RETURN 

Our  next  objective  is  to  enhance  our  video  display  by 
printing  the  names  of  the  contestants  on  the  left-hand  side 
of  the  screen  where  the  score  will  be  recorded.  We  also 
need  to  put  each  player's  piece  on  the  playing  field  and  to 
define  several  useful  variables.  Y$  is  a  string  variable  of 
twelve  blank  spaces.  Z$  is  similar  except  it  represents 
thirty-two  blank  spaces.  These  two  variables  will  be  used 
when  we  wish  to  erase  part  of  the  video  display.  The 
variable  T  represents  the  position  (row-column)  of  the 
computer  piece,  and  H  represents  the  position  of  the 
human  piece: 

250  PRINT@256,  N$;:  PRINT@448,  'TRS-80";: 

Y$  =  STRINGS  (12,  "  ") 
260  T  =  54:  T$  =  "*":  H  =  45: 

H$  =  "X":  Z$  =  STRINGS  (32,  "  ") 
270  I  =  T:  X$  =  T$:  GOSUB  1000: 

B(T)  =  99:  B(H)  =  99 
280  I  =  H:  X$  =  H$:  GOSUB  1000:  GOTO  300 

The  position  where  each  player's  piece  is  located  is  not 
available  for  a  move,  so  those  positions  in  the  B  array  are 
temporarily  set  to  the  value  99. 

Now  we  are  ready  to  create  the  module  that  solicits  the 
human's  move.  First  we  will  start  with  a  message  to  pre- 
sent when  the  requested  move  is  not  legal.  This  can  occur 
if  the  human  attempts  to  move  off  the  playing  field  or  to 
a  position  occupied  by  the  machine's  playing  piece: 

290  PRINT® 788,  "ILLEGAL  MOVE,  TRY  AGAIN";: 
FOR  1  =  1  TO  999:  NEXT  I 

In  most  situations,  line  290  will  not  be  executed.  Instead, 
the  message  will  usually  be  a  request  for  the  human 
player's  move: 

300  PRINT® 788, Z$;: 

PRINT@788,  "WHICH  DIRECTION  FOR  X"; 

The  machine  waits  for  the  human's  response  by  doing  a 
rapid  cycle  from  the  beginning  to  the  middle  of  line  310. 
When  a  keyboard  response  occurs,  the  machine  checks  a 
special  location  in  memory  that  keeps  track  of  the  arrow 
keys  and  determines  which  bit  has  been  set  by  the  key- 
press: 

310  IF  INKEYS  =  ""  THEN  310  ELSE  R  =  PEEK(16444) 

I    The  player's  response  is  then  processed  to  determine  the 


252       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Z80,  OASIS,  MAROT. 


A  superior  operating 
system  and  top  application 
software  Pring  out  the  best 
in  a  microcomputer.  That's 
why  Marot  offers  the  oasis* 
Operating  System  and 
compatible  software  for 
owners  of  Z80  based  micros. 
They  make  a  terrific  trio. 


1 


Z80  MICROS  —great 
machines.  Tandy's  trs-80 
mod  if  with  dma,  bank 
select  possibilities  and 
nationwide  service.  Altos. 
Cromemco.  Horizon. 
And  many  others.  Great 
machines — but  it  takes 
a  great  operating  system 
to  tap  their  full  potential. 

2  enter  oasis  —available 
from  Marot.  oasis  is  fast 
emerging  as  the  operating 
system  for  Z80  commercial 
applications  and  serious 
programmers.  Why?. ..rapid 
formating  and  back-up  of 
diskettes;  efficient  disk  utili- 
zation; excellent  line  editor 
and  document  processor 
for  file  management  and 
textwriting;  user  accounting 
with  logon,  password,  privi- 
lege level  and  use  account- 
ing; machine  independence 
of  programs,  data  and  text 
files;  sequential,  direct  and 
keyed  index  (isam)  files; 
interpreted  and  compiled 

BASIC;  COBOL-ANSI  74; 

single  and  multi-user  ver- 
sions; and  more.  No  wonder 
pros  say  'oasis  makes 
micros  run  like  minis!' 


3  APPLICATION  SOFTWARE 
—available  from  Marot. 
oasis  is  your  active,  invisible 
partner  supporting  these 
excellent,  ready-to-run 
products: 

Magic  Wand.'  The 
wordprocessor  combining 
the  ease  of  screen  editing 
with  micro  power. 

HDBS**  For  data 
management  needs 
restricted  to  hierarchical 
tree  structure  and  fixed 
length  records. 

MDBS**  Handles  full 
network  CODASYL  oriented 
data  structures  and 
variable  length  records. 

ABS***  Quality  office 
management  systems — 
accounts  receivable  and 
payable,  general  ledger, 
etc. — the  total  interacting, 
user-oriented  business 
package.  Written  in  COBOL; 
available  with  source  code. 

A  Law  package.  And 
ready  soon:  complete 
medical  management, 
real  estate,  restaurant, 
pharmacy,  management 
analysis  packages,  and 
others. 

Marot  and  its  Dealers 
offer  oasis  and  many 
professional  software 
products  to  individuals, 
OEMs  and  dealers. 
Licensing  arrangements 
are  also  available.  Just 
call  or  write  and  start 
your  own  terrific  trio. 


PLEASE  SEND  ME: 


(Circle  what  you  would  like 
and  send  order  with  payment 
to  the  address  shown  below  ) 


□  SEND  COMPLETE 
INFORMATION 


Product 


MAGIC  WAND ' 


Price 


$400 


ABS  ACCOUNTING  (call  or  write) 


MDBS,  full  network 

$900 

HDBS 

300 

Report  Generator, 

Query  System 

300 

Primer 

10 

(Other  options  available) 

Magic  Wand,  MDBS  and  HDBS  ar 

8 

available  for  several  operating  sys 

terns. 

"oasis  is  the  trademark  of  Phase  One  Systems,  Inc. 
"hdbs  and  MDBS  are  produced  by  Micro  Data  Base 

Systems,  Inc. 
'"American  Business  Systems,  Inc 
trs-80  is  the  registered  trademark  of  the  Tandy 
Corporation 

Magic  Wand  is  the  registered  trademark 
of  Small  Business  Systems.  Inc 


Product 

Price 

with 

Manual 

OASIS 

Manual 

Only 

OPERATING  SYSTEM 

(Includes: 

EXEC  Language; 

File  Management: 

User  Accounting; 

Device  Drivers; 

Print  Spooler; 

General  Text 

Editor;  etc.} 

SINGLE-USER 

$150 

$17.50 

MULTI-USER 

350 

17.50 

BASIC  COMPILER/ 

INTERPRETER/DEBUGGER 

100 

15.00 

RE-ENTRANT  BASIC 

COMPILER/INTERPRETER/ 

DEBUGGER 

150 

15.00 

DEVELOPMENT  PACKAGE 

(Macro  Assembler; 

Linkage  Editor; 

Debugger) 

150 

25.00 

TEXT  EDITOR  & 

SCRIPT  PROCESSOR 

150 

15.00 

DIAGNOSTIC  & 

CONVERSION  UTILITIES 

(Memory  Test; 

Assembly  Language; 

Converters;  File 

Recovery;  Disk  Test; 

File  Copy  from 

other  OS;  etc.) 

100 

15.00 

COMMUNICATIONS 

PACKAGE 

(Terminal  Emulator; 

File  Send  &  Receive) 

100 

15.00 

PACKAGE  PRICE 

(All  of  Above) 

SINGLE-USER 

500 

60.00 

MULTI-USER 

850 

60.00 

FILE  SORT 

100 

15.00 

COBOL-ANSI  74 

750 

35.00 

MAROT  SOFTWARE  SYSTEMS 
YOUR  EASTERN  SOURCE 


Send  order  to: 

Marot  Software  Systems,  Inc. 

35  East  85th  Street 

New  York  City,  NY  10028 

Telephone  (212)  534-5499 

NAME. 


STRFFT  (NO  RDX  *) 

CITY 

STATF                             7IP 
AMOUNT$ 

(Attach  system  description; 
add  $3  for  shipping; 
New  York  residents  add  sales  tax.) 
□  Check  enclosed  Q  VISA 
D  UPS  C.O.D.  □  Mastercharge 

Card  Number 

Expiration  Date 

Signature 


Circle  163  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


253 


new  square  (J)  for  his  piece. 

A  test  is  also  made  to  make  sure  that  the  new  square  is 
on  the  playing  field  and  not  currently  occupied  by  the 
machine's  piece: 

320  R  =  INT(R/8):  J  =  H+A(R) 

330  IF  B(J)  =  99  THEN  290  ELSE  PRINT@788,  Z$; 

If  the  move  is  legal,  the  necessary  changes  are  made  to 
the  video  display  and  to  the  internal  representation  of  the 
board.  In  addition,  the  player's  score  is  modified  approx- 
imately and  a  check  is  made  to  determine  if  the  game  is 
over: 

3601  =  H:  B(I)  =  0:  X$  =  "-": 

GOSUB  1000:  SH  =  SH  +  BQ) 
370  H  =  J:  B(H)  =  99:  I  =  H:  X$  =  H$: 

GOSUB  1000 
380  PRINT@321,  SH;:  IF  SH  >  99  THEN  930 

Move-Selection  Strategy 

This  completes  the  module  for  soliciting  and  processing 
the  move  selected  by  the  human  player.  We  can  see  that 
Treasure  Search  is  much  easier  to  program  than  more 
familiar  games  such  as  chess  or  checkers.  We  are  now 
ready  to  address  the  major  focus  of  this  article,  namely, 
move  selection  by  the  machine.  As  a  first  approximation, 
I  will  present  a  relatively  simplistic  strategy  and  then 
subsequently  will  consider  more  sophisticated  ap- 
proaches. 

The  following  initial  strategy  surveys  the  playing  field 
in  each  of  the  four  directions  from  the  current  position 
(T)  of  the  machine's  playing  piece  and  selects  as  the  best 
move  (BM)  the  square  which  has  the  largest  value  (BV): 

530  BV  ' 1:1  =  0 

540  I  =  I  +  1:  J  =  T  +D(I):  IF  B(J)  =  99  THEN  560 
550  IF  B(J)  >  BV  THEN  BM  =  J:  BV  =  B(J) 
560  IF  I  <  4  THEN  540 

This  is  equivalent  to  a  look-ahead  search  of  one  ply. 
Once  a  move  has  been  selected,  it  is  then  necessary  to 
make  that  move  on  the  video  display  and  to  make  the  ap- 
propriate changes  in  the  internal  representation  of  the 
playing  field.  In  addition,  the  score  for  the  machine  needs 
to  be  modified  and  a  check  needs  to  be  made  to  determine 
if  the  game  is  over: 

8001  =  T:  B(I)  =  0:X$  =  "-": 

GOSUB  1000:  PRINT@179,  Y$; 
810  T  =  BM:  ST  =  ST  +  B(T):  B(T)  =  99: 

I  =  T:  X$  =  T$ 
820  GOSUB  1000:  PRINT@513,  ST;: 

IF  ST  <  100  THEN  300 

To  complete  the  program,  we  need  two  messages  to 
signal  the  end  of  the  game: 

910  PRINT@915, 

'THANK  YOU  FOR  A  PLEASANT  GAME"; 
920  GOTO  920 
930  PRINT@917, 

"CONGRATULATIONS,  YOU  WIN";:  GOTO  920 
1000  R  =  INT(I/10):  C  =  I-10*R: 
K  =  141 +  (8  -  R)*64  +  C*4 
1010  PRINT  @  K,  X$;:  RETURN 


[Please  note  that  this  simple  version  of  the  game  is  not 
the  version  given  in  listing  1.  To  acquire  this  version, 
type  in  all  the  BASIC  lines  presented  so  far  in  the 
text.  .  .  GW/ 

Implementing  a-/3  Techniques 

If  you  run  this  program  on  a  TRS-80,  it  will  play  a  legal 
game,  but  it  will  not  be  particularly  challenging.  Your 
children  will  probably  enjoy  playing  it  because  they  will 
beat  it  most  of  the  time.  A  one-ply  look-ahead  does  not 
produce  brilliant  play.  To  make  the  machine  more  in- 
telligent, we  need  to  add  the  a-/3  minimax  algorithm.  To 
do  this,  we  will  substitute  the  following  code  for  lines  530 
to  560: 


510  DT  =  DM 
520  L  =  1:  SC  =  0:  S  = 
530  V(0)  -  -99:  V(l)  = 
M(l)  =  H 


-1 

-99:  M(0)  =  T: 


The  maximum  depth  of  the  search,  DT,  is  set  to  the 
value  DM  which  was  calculated  at  line  170.  Next,  we  in- 
itialize several  key  variables.  The  depth  of  the  search  (L) 
starts  with  a  value  of  1.  The  variable  that  remembers  the 
cumulative  difference  between  the  changes  in  the  players' 
scores  (SC)  is  set  to  zero.  The  variable  that  keeps  track  of 
which  player  has  the  move  (S)  is  set  to  a  —1. 

The  array  that  retains  the  best  values  obtained  so  far  at 
each  level  of  the  tree  is  initialized  at  a  —99  for  index 
values  of  0  and  1.  The  array  that  keeps  track  of  the  move 
(M)  currently  being  considered  at  each  level  of  the  tree  is 
set  to  the  value  T  (the  location  of  the  machine's  piece)  for 
the  index  value  of  0  and  to  H  (the  location  of  the  human's 
piece)  for  the  index  value  of  1. 

The  first  move  considered  in  the  look-ahead  process 
will  be  for  the  machine.  The  value  of  L  at  the  base  of  the 
tree  will  be  2.  You  may  think  this  a  bit  curious,  but  it  is  a 
useful  strategy  since  we  will  want  to  refer  to  V(L  —  2) 
and  M(L  —  2)  at  several  points  in  the  search  process. 

To  begin  the  main  loop  of  the  tree  search,  we  increase 
the  depth  (L)  by  1  and  then  initialize  the  variable  Q  (an 
index  for  the  moves  that  have  already  been  considered  at 
this  level  of  the  tree),  the  variable  S  (an  index  indicating 
whose  turn  it  is  to  move),  and  the  variable  V  (the  value 
for  the  best  move  found  so  far  at  this  level  of  the  tree): 

540  L  =  L  +  1:  Q(L)  =  0:  S  =  -S:  V(L)  =  V(L  -2) 

The  next  step  is  to  increment  the  Q  index  so  that  the 
machine  can  consider  the  next  move  option  at  this  level 
of  the  tree.  If  we  have  exhausted  all  of  the  move  options 
at  this  level,  it  is  time  to  branch  to  a  special  section  of 
code  that  instructs  the  machine  to  back  up  one  level  in  the 
tree: 

580  Q(L)  =  Q(L)  +  1:  IF  Q(L)  >  4  THEN  760 

If  the  move  options  at  this  level  have  not  been  exhausted, 
the  machine  is  instructed  to  generate  the  location  (J)  of  a 
square  to  which  the  player  can  consider  moving: 

590  J  =  M(L  -  2)  +  D(Q(L)) 


254        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


THE  ULTIMATE  REFINEMENT 
PL/I  FOR  YOUR  MICRO. 


IBM's  told  us  about 
PL/I  for  years.  Now, 
we're  telling  them 
something. 

PL/I  Subset  G.  Newly 
designed  expressly  for 
minicomputers  by  an  ANSI 
committee  of  PL/I  experts.  All 
the  best  application 
programming  features,  refined 
to  match  contemporary 
programming  practices. 

PL/l-80™  for  Microcomputers. 

Based  on  Subset  G, 
PL/1-80  runs  under  our 
CP/M®  and  MP/M™  operating 
systems. 

PL/1-80  Means  Performance. 

In  an  independent 
benchmark,  PL/1-80  was 
tested  against  34  other  high- 
level  languages  for  8-bit 
processors,  and  came  out 
on  top.  * 


PL/1-80  versus  the  best  of 
several  languages: 

PL/1-80 

1.00 

FORTRAN 

1.21 

BASIC  COMPILER 

1.32 

PL/M 

1.71 

PASCAL  COMPILER 

1.89 

PASCAL 
INTERPRETER 

17.07 

BASIC 
INTERPRETER 

34.57 

'Execution  time  ratio, 
Eratosthenes  Sieve 

Subset  G  is  a  brand  new 
language  with  a  new 
following.  DEC®,  Data 
General,  and  Prime  now 
support  it,  and  the  list  is 
growing.  There's  no  better 


.»■  »i  i»i  ura  man  »m»i  i  4'//:  i  tzi 


PL/l-80  from  Digital 
Research.  Fast.  Economical. 
Refined.  With  the 
programming  power  of 
minicomputer  PL/I  .  The 
package  includes  compiler, 
run-time  library,  linkage 
editor  and  relocating  macro- 
assembler, plus  three 
comprehensive  manuals.  All 
for  only  $500. 
(Domestic  USA  price  only) 

Interested  in 
Refinement? 

Call  or  write  Digital  Research. 
Experts  in  refinement. 

H)DJGJTflL  RESEARCH" 

P.O.  Box  579 

801  Lighthouse  Avenue 

Pacific  Grove,  CA  93950 


investment. 


'i«n«iiHB«»t:i«i 


TWX  910360  5001 


Circle  164  on  Inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980         255 


Making  Moves 

Move  generation  is  quite  simple  because  M(L— 2) 
always  represents  the  current  location  of  the  piece  of  the 
player  whose  turn  it  is  to  move  and  D(Q(L))  represents 
one  of  the  four  directions  in  which  a  move  can  potentially 
be  made.  I  say  potentially  because  the  new  location  could 
be  off  the  playing  field  or  could  already  be  occupied  by 
the  opponent's  piece.  Our  next  statement  checks  for  this: 

600  IF  B(J)  =  °9  THEN  580  ELSE  M(L)  =  J:  E(L)  =  B(J) 

If  the  move  is  legal,  the  new  location  is  recorded  as  the 
current  move  at  this  level  in  array  M,  and  the  digit  at  this 
location  is  recorded  as  the  current  value  at  this  level  in  ar- 
ray E.  In  addition,  the  internal  representation  of  the  play- 
ing field,  B,  is  modified  to  reflect  this  move,  and  the 
variable  SC  is  altered  to  keep  track  of  the  relative  points 
accumulated  by  each  player: 

610  B(J)  =  99:  B(M(L  -  2))  =  0:  SC  =  SC  +  S  *  E(L) 

In  order  to  provide  a  visible  record  of  the  machine's 
"thought"  process,  the  machine  is  instructed  to  print  the 
move  location  (J),  the  cumulative  change  in  the  score  at 
this  point  (SC),  and  the  best  value  so  far  at  this  level, 
V(L),  in  the  empty  area  on  the  right  side  of  the  video 
display.  The  machine  also  checks  to  see  if  the  current 
depth  is  the  maximum  possible  depth.  If  not,  it  branches 
to  line  540  which  starts  the  main  loop  again  by  going  one 
level  higher  in  the  tree: 

620PRINT@179  +  64*L,  J;  SC;  V(L);  "  ";: 
IF  L  <  DT  THEN  540 


If  the  search  is  at  the  maximum  depth  (ie:  L  =  DT),  then 
the  machine  records  the  current  value  of  SC  as  a  potential 
new  best  value: 

670  V(L  +  1)  =  -S  *  SC 

The  next  step  is  to  reverse  the  move  we  just  made. 
When  a  new  move  is  made,  the  board  representation  is 
updated  at  line  610.  When  the  move  is  taken  back  at  line 
680,  we  refer  to  the  process  of  "downdating"  the  board: 


680  B(M(L))  =  E(L):  B(M(L  -  2))  =  99: 
SC  =  SC  -  S  *  E(L) 

Negamax 

To  determine  whether  the  value  recorded  at  line  670  is 
better  than  the  current  value  at  this  level,  we  employ  the 
negamax  procedure  (see  reference  1).  This  is  equivalent  to 
the  minimax  procedure  except  that  its  implementation  re- 
quires fewer  programming  steps.  Rather  than  minimizing 
and  maximizing  at  every  other  level,  the  negamax  ap- 
proach always  maximizes  the  results  at  a  given  level,  but 
it  reverses  the  arithmetic  signs  at  every  other  level  to  pro- 
duce the  identical  result  as  the  minimax  procedure.  (You 
may  recognize  the  similarity  between  this  approach  and 
the  use  of  the  logical  NOR  operation  in  circuit  design. 
Two  levels  of  NOR  logic  are  equivalent  to  a  level  of 
ANDs  followed  by  a  level  of  ORs.)  The  following  line  im- 
plements the  negamax  calculations: 

700  IF  V(L)  <  -V(L  +  1)  THEN 
V(L)  =  -V(L  +  1)  ELSE  580 

If  the  new  value  is  worse  than  or  equal  to  the  current 
value,  the  machine  branches  to  line  580  and  considers 
another  move  at  this  level.  If  the  new  value  is  better  than 
the  current  value,  the  machine  continues  to  the  next  state- 
ment: 

740  IF  L  =  2  THEN  BM  =  M(L): 
PRINT@180,  BM;  V(2); 

If  the  search  process  is  at  the  base  of  the  tree  (L  =  2), 
then  the  new  best  move  is  recorded  for  later  use  and  an 
announcement  of  our  new  find  is  printed  on  the  video 
display.  This  includes  both  the  new  location,  BM,  and 
the  net  difference  in  the  score  produced  by  the  anticipated 
sequence  of  moves,  V(2) 

Evaluating  for  Cutoff 

At  line  700,  the  minimax  rule  was  applied  to  select  the 
best  option  for  the  player  with  the  move.  The  next  con- 
sideration is  whether  the  current  move  will  produce  an 
a-j3  cutoff.  The  logic  for  this  decision  is  based  on  the  idea 
that  the  opponent  may  already  have  a  move  at  this  level 
in  the  tree  that  guarantees  him  a  value  that  is  at  least  as 


$      GOLD  DISK      $ 

CP/M8  Compatible  Z-80  Disassembler 


■  RECREATES  Z-80  ASSEMBLY  LANGUAGE  SOURCE  FILES  FROM 

ABSOLUTE  CODE  (.COM  FILES)  FOR  ALTERATION.  $ 

FEATURES  MNEMONIC  LABELS  FOR  EASY  PROGRAM  TRACING 

■  INCLUDES  COMPLETE  DOCUMENTATION  AND  FREE  UTILITY 

FOR  SPECIFYING  AND  DECODING  ASCII  SECTIONS  OF  CODE. 
OPERATES  UNDER  MINIMUM  CP/M1  CONFIGURATION  (16K  RAM). 
DOCUMENTATION  ONLY:  $12  (MAY  BE  APPLIED  TO  DISK  ORDER). 


62° 


POSTPAID 


ONE  DAY  SERVICE  FOR  CREDIT 
CARD  CUSTOMERS:  ORDER  DISK 
BY  PHONE  FREE!  (WE  WILL  PAY 
YOU  BACK  FOR  THE  PHONE  CALL) 


BOWER-STEWART  &  ASSOCIATES 
P.O.  BOX  1389 
HAWTHORNE,  CA.  90250 
(213)  676-5055 


"WORTH  ITS  WEIGHT  IN  GOLD- 


SPECIFY  DRIVE  AND  SYSTEM 
AVAILABLE  ON  5'/«"  OR  8"  IBM  SS/SD  DISK 


CALIF.  RESIDENTS  ADD  6  V.  SALES  TAX. 


•CP/M  IS  A  TRADEMARK  OF  DIGITAL  RESEARCH 


256       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publication!  Inc 


Circle  165  on  inquiry  card. 


k  McGRAW-HILL  PUBLICATION 


GUIDE  TO  PERSONAL  ^^COMFiJTiNG 


GETTVHG  SIM 

v*(nat  You  Need  Are 

EQUIPMENT  RE' 

TKS-BO,  Apple,  Sore 


hat  It  Will  Cost 


ft«*t~Seiltne|  Author 

JERKY  POURNE__ 

"Writing  Yrlth  A  Mlcrocoi 

"THE  BSM  A.RY  WORI 

A  PSRSONAL 

COMPUTER  DIRECTORr 
COMPUIERCUIBS: 
WHO  MEEDS  TMEMf 


When  will  the  Personal  Computer 
Explosion  touch  YOU? 


Are  you  prepared  for  the  explosive 
transformation?  Right  in  your  own 
home?  Electronic  mail.  Personalized  • 
investment  analysis.  Foreign  language 
tutorial.  Home  energy  management. 
Robots.  Computer  music.  Secretarial 
service.  Diet  and  menu  planning.  And 
more,  more,  more. 

onComptiting™  the  new  McGraw-Hill 
quarterly,  prepares  you  for  the 
enormous  changes  coming  during  the 


r^0i$':'T:M§M^-!:^f0K- 


LJ 


1 980's  (Some  are  already  here). 

onComptiting™  explains  in  nontechnical 

language  what  personal  computers  are, 

how  they  work,  and  how  you  can  use 

them  at  home,  for  fun  and  profit. 

Don't  let  the  personal  computer 

explosion  catch  you  off  guard.  Know 

what's  happening  and  help  make  it 

happen!  Prepare  now  for  the  exciting 

future  with  a  subscription  to 

onCompating™! 


Call  Toll-Free 

800-258-5485 


Start  your 
subscription  today. 


onCompating™  Subscription  Dept.  P.O.  Box  307,  Martinsville,  NJ  08836 

DOMESTIC  subscription  rate: 

D  U.S.  1  yr.  (4  issues)  @  $8.50  □  Canada  &  Mexico,  1  ft,  (4  issues)  @  S  10.00 

FOREIGN  (to  expedite  service,  please  remit  in  U.S.  funds  drawn  on  a  U.S.  bank.) 

□  Europe  (and  all  other  countries,  except  above),  1  yr.  @  $  1 2 .00  —  surface  delivery. 

D  Bill  Visa  □  Bill  Master  Charge  Q  Bill  me  (North  America  only) 


)  onComputing,  Inc.  1980 


Card  Number 

Expiration 

Signature 

Name  (please  print) 

* 

Street/ Apartment  Number 

City 

State/Province/Country    Code 

7BBO 

good  as  the  one  we  are  considering  in  the  current  branch. 
This  procedure  is  easy  to  implement  but  not  particular- 
ly easy  to  understand.  The  general  idea  was  explained  by 
an  example  by  W  D  Maurer  in  an  earlier  issue  of  this 
magazine  (see  reference  2),  and  a  detailed  exposition  is 
provided  by  Knuth  and  Moore  (reference  1).  For  our  pur- 


Listing  1:  Listing  for  the  game  of  Treasure  Search,  written  for 
the  TRS-80  using  Level  II  BASIC.  This  game,  in  its  various  ver- 
sions, illustrates  the  usefulness  of  alpha-beta  pruning  when 
searching  a  tree  for  the  best  strategy  in  a  two-player  game.  The 
game,  as  written  here,  plays  an  unmodified  alpha-beta  strategy 
against  a  human  player.  See  listings  2  and  3  for  additions  that 
cause  the  computer  to  play  more  rapidly. 


0: 


INPUT  N$ 


100   CLEAR    100:    CLS:    DEFINT   A-Z:    RANDOM:    SH 

ST  =  0 
110   PRINT@463,  "PLEASE  ENTER  YOUR  NAME 
120   DIM  A(8),  B(99),  D(4),  E(12),  M(12) 
130   DIM  PV(12,12),  Q(12),  V(12),  Z(12) 
140   D(l)  =   -10:  D(2)  =   -1:  D(3)  =  1:  D(4)  =  10 
150   A(l)  =  10:  A(2)  =   -10:  A(4)  =   -1:  A(8)  =  1:  CLS 
160   PRINT@461,  "TRS-80  PLAYING  STRENGTH  (1  TO  5)";: 

INPUT  Y 
170   DM  =  2*Y:  FOR  I  =  11  TO  88:  B(I)  =  RND(9):  NEXT  I 
180   FOR  I  =  0  TO  10:  B(I)  =  99:  NEXT  I:  FOR  I  =  89  TO  99: 

B(I)  =  99:  NEXT  I 
190   FOR  I  =   19  TO  79  STEP  10:  B(I)  =  99:  B(I   +   1)   =  99: 

NEXT  I 
220   CLS:  FOR  I  =  11  TO  88:  IF  B(I)  =  99  THEN  240 
230   X$  =  RIGHTS  (STR$  (B(I),1):  GOSUB  1000 
240   NEXT  I:  PRINT@22,  "TREASURE  SEARCH";  Y: 
250   PRINT@256,  N$;:  PRINT@448,  "TRS-80";: 

Y$  =  STRINGS  (12,  "  ") 
260    T  =  54:  T$  =  :  H  =  45:  H$  =  "X": 

Z$  =  STRINGS  (32,  "  ") 
270    I  =  T:  X$  =  T$:  GOSUB  1000:  B(T)  =  99:  B(H)  =  99 
280    I  =  H:  X$  =  H$:  GOSUB  1000:  GOTO  300 
290   PRINT@788,  "ILLEGAL  MOVE,  TRY  AGAIN";: 

FOR  I  =  1  TO  999:  NEXT  I 
300   PRINT@788,  Z$;:  PRINT@788,  "WHICH  DIRECTION  FOR 

X"; 
310   IF  INKEY$  =  ""  THEN  310  ELSE  R  =  PEEK(16444) 
320   R  =  INT(R/8):  J  =  H  +  A(R) 
330   IF  B(J)  =  99  THEN  290  ELSE  PRINT@788,  Z$; 
360    I  =  H:  B(I)  =  0:  X$  =  "-":  GOSUB  1000:  SH  =  SH  +  B(J) 
370    H  =  J:  B(H)  =  99:  I  =  H:  X$  =  H$:  GOSUB  1000 
380   PRINT@321,  SH;:  IF  SH  >  99  THEN  930 
510   DT  =  DM 

520    L  =  1:  SC  =  0:  S  =   -1 

530   V(0)  =   -99:  V(l)  =   -99:  M(0)  =  T:  M(l)  =  H 
540    L  =  L  +  1:  Q(L)  =  0:  S  =   -S:  V(L)  =  V(L  -  2) 
580   Q(L)  =  Q(L)  +  1:  IF  Q(L)  >  4  THEN  760 
590   J  =  M(L  -  2)  +  D(Q(L)) 
600   IF  B(J)  =  99  THEN  580  ELSE  M(L)  =  J 
610   B(J)  =  99:  B(M(L  -  2))  =  0:  SC  =  SC 
620   PRINT@179  +  64  *  L,  J;  SC;  V(L);  "  " 

540 
670   V(L  +  1)  =   -S  *  SC 

680   B(M(L))  =  E(L):  B(M(L  -  2))  =  99:  SC  =  SC  -  S  *  E(L) 
700   IFV(L)  <   -V(L  +  l)THENV(L)  =    -V(L  +  1)  ELSE  580 
740   IF  L  =  2  THEN  BM  =  M(L):  PRINT@180,  BM;  V(2); 
750   IF  V(L)  <   -V(L  -  1)  THEN  580 
760   L  =  L  -  1:  S  =   -S:  PRINT@243  +  64  *  L,  Y$;:  IF  L  >  1 

THEN  680 
800    I  =  T:  B(I)  =  0:  X$  =  "-":  GOSUB  1000:  PRINT@179,  Y$; 
810   T  =  BM:  ST  =  ST  +  B(T):  B(T)  =  99:  I  =  T:  X$  =  T$ 
820    GOSUB  1000:  PRINT@513,  ST;:  IF  ST  <  100  THEN  300 
910   PRINT@915,  "THANK  YOU  FOR  A  PLEASANT  GAME"; 
920   GOTO  920 
930   PRINT@917 

GOTO  920 
1000    R  =  INT  (1/10):  C 

C  *  4 
1010   PRINT@K,  X$;:  RETURN 


E(L)  =  B(J) 
+  S  *  E(L) 
;:  IF  L  <  DT  THEN 


"CONGRATULATIONS,     YOU    WIN" 


I  -  10  *  R:  K  =  141  +  (8  -  R)  *  64  + 


poses,  the  job  is  accomplished  by  a  single  statement: 

750  IF  V(L)  <   -V(L  -  1)  THEN  580 

If  the  condition  specified  in  line  750  is  satisfied,  then  a 
cutoff  is  not  called  for,  and  the  process  branches  to  line 
580,  where  the  next  move  option  is  considered  at  this 
level.  If  the  condition  in  line  750  is  not  satisfied,  the  pro- 
cess continues  to  line  760,  which  instructs  the  machine  to 
back  up  one  level  in  the  tree: 

760  L  =  L  -  1:  S  =   -S:  PRINT@243  +  64  *  L,  Y$;: 
IF  L  >  1  THEN  680 

The  backup  procedure  includes  decreasing  the  value  of 
L  by  1,  changing  the  index  that  indicates  which  player  has 
the  move,  erasing  the  move  information  printed  on  the 
right  side  of  the  video  display,  and  branching  to  line  680 
to  execute  the  downdate  instructions  for  the  new  value  of 
L.  If  the  value  of  L  decreases  to  1,  all  options  at  the  base 
of  the  tree  have  been  examined  and  the  search  is  com- 
pleted. In  this  case,  the  machine  drops  to  line  800  and 
makes  the  move  which  has  been  stored  by  variable  BM. 

It  is  important  to  note  that  the  jump  to  line  680  for 
downdating  is  followed  by  execution  of  the  minimax  test 
(line  700)  for  a  new  best  move  at  the  new  value  of  L; 
sometimes  the  program  proceeds  again  to  line  750,  where 
another  cutoff  may  occur.  Note,  also,  that  line  760  can  be 
entered  from  two  different  locations.  In  addition  to  drop- 
ping through  from  line  750,  the  machine  can  be  directed 
to  line  760  from  line  580  as  a  result  of  exhausting  all 
possible  move  options  at  a  given  level.  The  a-p  test  at  line 
750  provides  a  means  for  terminating  the  search  at  a  node 
before  all  of  the  options  have  been  analyzed. 

The  version  of  Treasure  Search  just  completed  is  given 
in  listing  1. 

Traditional  Techniques 

This  completes  the  a-fi  minimax  module.  You  may  be 
surprised  that  this  algorithm  can  be  presented  in  only  a 
few  lines  of  BASIC.  The  simplicity  of  the  presentation  is 
possible  because  we  used  the  negamax  procedure  and 
because  Treasure  Search  is  a  simple  game.  It  is  very 
straightforward  in  terms  of  move  generation  (line  590), 
move  evaluation  (line  600),  and  the  ease  of  updating  (line 
610)  and  downdating  (line  680)  the  internal  representa- 
tion of  the  playing  field.  This  simplicity  also  means  that 
the  algorithm  will  execute  fairly  rapidly,  and  thus  a 
search  of  nontrivial  depth  can  be  completed  in  a  reason- 
able amount  of  time. 

The  algorithm  that  I  have  presented  for  the  a-0 
minimax  procedure  is  quite  different  from  the  one  that 
appears  in  most  textbooks.  Traditionally,  the  algorithm 
generates  all  of  the  moves  at  each  node  and  then  orders 
them  using  a  plausibility  routine  before  proceeding  to  the 
next  deeper  level  of  the  tree.  This  approach  is  based  on 


Listing  2:  To  implement  the  killer  heuristic,  these  lines  are  to  be 
added  to  listing  1,  replacing  line  590  of  listing  1  and  inserting 
lines  550,  560,  and  710. 

550   J  =  Z(L):  I  =  0 

560    I  =  I  +  1:  IF  J  =  M(L  -  2)  +  D(I)  THEN  600  ELSE  IF  I  <  4 

THEN  560 
590   J  =  M(L  -  2)  +  D(Q(L)):  IF  J  =  Z(L)  THEN  580 
710   IF  L  >  2  THEN  Z(L)  =  M(L) 


258       November  1960  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


A^Hft     ^^B  4A  Licenced  by  Sinclair  Research  Ltd.  ^_ 

Microcomputer 

for  everyone  at 
a  Micro  Price 


*2* A     The  IMkrofkel 


The  unique 

and  valuable 

components  of  the  MicroAce 

The  MicroAce  is  not  just  another  personal 
computer.  Quite  apart  from  its  exceptionally  low 
price,  the  MicroAce  has  two  uniquely  advanced 
components:  the  powerful  BASIC  interpreter,  and 
the  simple  teach  yourself  BASIC  manual. 

The  unique  versatile  BASIC  interpreter  offers 
remarkable  programming  advantages: 

•  Unique  'one-touch'  key  word  entry:  the 
MicroAce  eliminates  a  great  deal  of 
tiresome  typing.  Key  words  (RUN,  PRINT, 
LIST,  etc.)  have  their  own  single-key  entry. 

•  Unique  syntax  check.  Only  lines  with  correct 
syntax  are  accepted  into  programs.  A  cursor 
identifies  errors  immediately.  This  prevents 
entry  of  long  and  complicated  programs  with 
faults  only  discovered  when  you  try  to  run 
them. 

•  Excellent  string  handling  capability  takes  up 
to  26  string  variables  of  any  length.  All  strings 
can  undergo  all  relational  tests  (e.g. 
comparison).  The  MicroAce  also  has  string 
input  to  request  a  line  of  text  when 
necessary.  Strings  do  not  need  to  be 
dimensioned. 

•  Up  to  26  single  dimension  arrays. 

•  FOR/NEXT  loops  nested  up  26. 

•  Variable  names  of  any  length. 

•  BASIC  language  also  handles  full  Boolean 
arithmetic,  conditional  expressions,  etc. 

•  Exceptionally  powerful  edit  facilities,  allows 
modification  of  existing  program  lines. 

•  Randomise  function,  useful  for  games  and 
secret  codes,  as  well  as  more  serious 
applications 

•  Timer  under  program  control. 


PEEK  and  POKE  enable  entry  of  machine  code 
instructions,  USR  causes  jump  to  a  user's 
machine  language  sub-routine. 

•  High  resolution     graphics    with    22    standard 
graphic  symbols. 

•  All     characters     printable     in     reverse     under 
program  control. 

•  Lines  of  unlimited  length. 

'Excellent  value'  indeed! 

For  just  $149.00  (excluding  handling  charge)  you 
get  everything  you  need  to  build  a  personal 
computer  at  home...  PCB,  with  IC  sockets  for  all 
ICs;  case;  leads  for  direct  connection  to  a  cassette 
recorder  and  television  (black  and  white  or  color); 
everything! 

Yet  the  MicroAce  really  is  a  complete,  powerful, 
full-facility  computer,  matching  or  surpassing  other 
personal  computers  at  several  times  the  price. 

The  MicroAce  is  programmed  in  BASIC,  and  you 
can  use  it  to  do  quite  literally  anything,  from  playing 
chess  to  managing  a  business. 

The  MicroAce  is  pleasantly  straightforward  to 
assemble,  using  a  fine  tipped  soldering  iron.  It 
immediately  proves  what  a  good  job  you've  done: 
connect  it  to  your  TV  ...  link  it  to  the  mains  adaptor 
...  and  you're  ready  to  go. 

Fewer  chips,  compact  design, 
volume  production-more  power 
per  Dollar! 

The  MicroAce  owes  its  remarkable  low  price  to  its 
remarkable  design:  the  whole  system  is  packed  on 
to  fewer,  newer,  more  powerful  and  advanced  LSI 
chips.  A  single  SUPER  ROM,  for  instance,  contains 
the  BASIC  interpreter,  the  character  set,  operating 
system,  and  monitor.  And  the  MicroAce  1K  byte 


-  a  new  generation  of 
miniature  computers 

A  COMPLETE  COMPUTER 
for  $149.00  for  IK  Kit 

Post  and  Packing  FREE 

(Add  6%  Tax  for  Shipments  inside  California) 

RAM  (expandable  to  2K  on  board)  is  roughly 
equivalent  to  4K  bytes  in  a  conventional  computer 
typically  storing  100  lines  of  BASIC.  (Key  words 
occupy  only  a  single  byte.) 

The  display  shows  32  characters  by  24  lines. 

And  Benchmark  tests  show  that  the  MicroAce  is 
faster  than  all  other  personal  computers. 

No  other  personal  computer  offers  this  unique 
combination  of  high  capability  and  low  price. 

The  MicroAce  teach-yourself 
BASIC  manual. 

If  the  features  of  the  BASIC  interpreter  mean 
little  to  you  don't  worry.  They're  all  explained  in  the 
specially  written  book  free  with  every  kit!  The  book 
makes  learning  easy,  exciting  and  enjoyable,  and 
represents  a  complete  course  in  BASIC 
programming  from  first  principles  to  complex 
programs.  (Available  separately  purchase  price 
refunded  if  you  buy  a  MicroAce  later.) 
A  hardware  manual  is  also  included  with  every  kit. 

The  MicroAce  Kit: 

$149.00  with  IK    COMPLETE 

$169.00  with  2K 

Demand  for  the  MicroAce  is  very  high:  use  the 
coupon  to  order  today  for  the  earliest  possible 
delivery.  All  orders  will  be  despatched  in  strict 
rotation.  If  you  are  unsuccessful  in  constructing 
your  kit,  we  will  repair  it  for  a  fee  of  $20.00,  post  and 
packing  FREE.  Of  course,  you  may  return  your 
MicroAce  as  received  within  14  days  for  a  full 
refund.  We  want  you  to  be  satisfied  beyond  all 
doubt        and  we  have  no  doubt  that  you  will  be. 


280  A  microprocessor 
chip,  widely  recognised 
as  the  best  ever  made, 


Your  MicroAce  kit 
contains... 

•  Printed  circuit  board,  with 
IC  sockets  for  all  ICs. 

•  Complete  components  set, 
including  all  ICs  all 
manufactured  by  selected 
world  leading  suppliers. 

•  New  rugged  keyboard, 
touch-sensitive,  wipe-clean. 

•  Ready  moulded  case. 

•  Leads  and  plugs  for 
connection  to  domestic  TV 
and  cassette  recorder. 
(Programs  can  be  SAVEd 
and  LOADed  on  to  a 
portable  cassette  recorder.) 

•  Mains  adaptor  of  600  mA 
at  9VDC  nominal 
unregulated. 

•  FREE  course  in  BASIC 
programming  and  user 
manual. 


JOIN  THE  REVOLUTION  -  DON'T  GET  LEFT 
BEHIND  -  ORDER  YOUR  MICRO  ACE  NOW!! 


Send  Check,  Money  Order  or  quote  your  Credit  Card  No.  to: 
MicroAce  1348  East  Edinger,  Santa  Ana,  California,  Zip  Code  92705. 
or  phone  (714)  547  2526  quoting  your  Credit  Card  Number. 


Quantity 


Description 


Unit  Price 


MicroAce  Kit  1K 

$149.00 

MicroAce  Kit  2K 

$169.00 

Manual 

$10.00 

1K  Upgrade  Kit 

$29.00 

Shipmen 
add  6% 

ts  inside  California 
TAX 

TOTAL 

Amex. 
Diners 
Check 

Money  Order 
Master  Charge 
Visa 


Card  No.. 


Exp.  Date- 


W  Mi  W  W  W  W  WP.  W     I  If 


Address- 

City 


.Zip. 


Circle  166  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


259 


the  well-known  finding  that  the  efficiency  of  the  a-0 
method  is  increased  greatly  when  the  strongest  moves  for 
each  player  are  examined  first  at  each  level  of  the  tree. 
The  disadvantage  of  generating,  ordering,  and  storing  all 
of  the  moves  at  each  level  is  that  most  of  them  will  never 
be  examined  if  an  a-/?  cutoff  occurs.  If  a  cutoff  can  be 
produced  by  some  other  means,  a  great  deal  of  time  and 
memory  can  be  saved  by  ignoring  most  of  the  moves  at 
each  node  and  omitting  the  ordering  process. 

The  obvious  question  is,  of  course,  how  can  we  have 
our  cake  and  eat  it  too?  The  competition  among  chess 
programmers  over  the  last  decade  has  led  to  some  useful 
discoveries  that  are  relevant  to  this  problem.  We  will 
consider  two  of  these  discoveries  that  are  especially  effec- 
tive in  increasing  the  efficiency  of  the  a-/3  minimax  pro- 
cedure. The  first  is  the  killer  heuristic  and  the  second  is 
the  iterative  search. 

The  Killer  Heuristic 

The  killer  heuristic  is  a  simple,  yet  powerful,  idea  that 
greatly  improves  move  ordering.  Instead  of  trying  to 
order  moves  on  the  basis  of  a  special  plausibility  analysis, 
the  killer  procedure  simply  remembers  moves  that  were 
effective  in  the  past.  That  is,  information  generated  as  a 
byproduct  of  the  regular  tree  search  is  remembered;  and 
it  is  applied  later  on  in  the  search  when  a  similar  situation 
is  encountered.  In  our  implementation,  we  will  remember 
the  move  that  was  judged  most  recently  to  be  the  best  by 
the  minimax  rule  at  each  level  of  the  tree;  each  time  we 
visit  a  new  node  in  the  tree,  this  move  will  be  tried  first. 

To  implement  this  idea,  a  few  additions  and  modifica- 
tions are  necessary  (see  listing  2).  When  the  tree  search 
moves  to  a  higher  level,  the  first  move  examined  should 
be  the  killer  for  that  level  (lines  550  and  560  of  listing  2). 

First,  the  appropriate  move  is  read  from  the  Z  array, 
then  a  check  is  made  to  make  sure  the  move  is  legal.  If  the 
killer  does  not  produce  an  immediate  cutoff,  the  search 
process  will  revert  back  to  the  normal  procedure  of  ex- 
amining each  of  the  possible  options.  This  process  is  con- 
trolled at  lines  580  and  590. 

We  need  to  modify  line  590  of  listing  1  to  make  sure 
that  a  move  is  not  examined  twice  (first  as  the  killer  and 
then  as  a  regular  option). 

The  final  step  in  implementing  the  killer  heuristic  is  to 
provide  a  means  for  remembering  the  move  which  is  cur- 
rently most  effective  in  terms  of  the  minimax  strategy  at 
each  level  of  the  look-ahead  tree.  This  is  accomplished  by 
recording  the  current  move  each  time  the  search  process 
finds  that  it  is  the  best  one  so  far;  this  is  done  at  line  700 
of  listing  1. 

If  the  process  is  at  the  base  of  the  tree  (L  =  2),  then  the 
move  need  not  be  recorded  since  the  killer  strategy  does 
not  apply  at  this  level.  It  is  too  late  to  define  a  move  that 
should  be  searched  first  at  the  base  of  the  tree.  By  not 
altering  the  killer  at  L  =  2,  we  make  sure  that  the  move 
examined  initially  will  be  searched  only  once  even  if  it 
turns  out  not  to  be  the  one  eventually  chosen. 

The  killer  heuristic  is  a  very  powerful  addition  to  the 
a-0  minimax  algorithm.  It  requires  only  a  small  change  in 
the  algorithm,  involves  a  negligible  amount  of  time  in 
terms  of  code  execution,  and  often  results  in  a  decrease  of 
50%  or  more  in  the  number  of  nodes  actually  visited  in 
the  search  tree.  At  the  deeper  levels  of  the  tree,  it  ac- 
complishes essentially  the  same  function  as  plausibility 


ordering,  but  does  it  much  more  efficiently. 

The  killer  heuristic  does  not  provide  a  means  for  order- 
ing the  moves  when  the  machine  is  constructing  the  initial 
"limb"  of  the  look-ahead  tree.  Because  the  search  is  a 
depth-first  search,  the  process  begins  by  selecting  a  se- 
quence of  moves  that  starts  at  the  base  node  and  goes  to 
the  maximum  depth.  The  a-/3  cutoffs  are  most  effective  if 
this  initial  limb  contains  the  strongest  moves  at  each  node 
for  each  player.  This  first  stage  of  the  search  can  be  very 
time-consuming  if  the  moves  that  are  initially  examined 
are  eventually  discarded  for  better  ones.  Because  the 
killer  heuristic  employs  strong  moves  only  after  they 
have  been  discovered  by  the  regular  search  process,  it  is 
not  helpful  in  structuring  the  initial  "limb"  of  the  look- 
ahead  process. 

The  Iterative  Technique 

A  different  technique  has  proven  its  effectiveness  for 
this  purpose.  This  procedure  is  the  iterative  tree  search. 
Its  effectiveness  for  increasing  the  efficiency  of  the  a-0 
minimax  procedure  was  discovered  serendipitously.  At 
Northwestern  University,  for  example,  the  Slate-Atkin 
chess-programming  team  was  concerned  about  time  con- 
trol in  move  selection.  Occasionally,  in  a  complex  posi- 
tion, their  chess  program  would  conduct  its  regular  look- 
ahead  search  and  would  not  complete  the  task  in  the 
amount  of  time  anticipated.  In  several  instances,  the 
search  would  require  four  to  five  times  as  long  as  an- 
ticipated. This  was  a  serious  problem  because  chess  tour- 
naments are  conducted  under  strict  time  allowances.  If  a 
program  takes  too  much  time  for  move  selection  during 
the  early  stages  of  the  game,  very  little  time  will  be 
available  when  it  is  needed  during  the  latter  part  of  the 
contest. 

To  cope  with  this  problem,  Slate  and  Atkin  im- 
plemented an  iterative  procedure  whereby  the  search  is 
conducted  in  stages.  At  first,  a  complete  two-ply  search  is 
conducted,  then  a  three-ply  search,  then  a  four-ply 
search,  etc,  until  a  search  of  the  desired  depth  is  reached. 
The  advantage  of  this  procedure  for  time  control  is  that  a 
search  can  be  aborted  at  any  time  and  the  machine  can 
fall  back  upon  the  move  selected  by  the  immediately 
preceding  search  of  one  less  ply  in  depth.  It  is  possible  to 
use  information  gained  in  the  early,  shallow  searches  to 
help  structure  (ie:  order)  the  deeper  searches. 

Interestingly  enough,  Slate  and  Atkin  discovered  that 
this  ordering  information  caused  an  increase  in  the  effi- 
ciency of  the  deeper  searches  which  more  than  made  up 
for  the  time  spent  conducting  the  shallow  searches.  They 
also  found  that  the  beneficial  effect  of  the  iterations  in- 
creases as  the  depth  of  search  increases. 

The  iterative  search  is  much  easier  to  implement  than 
you  might  think.  The  key  idea  for  enhancing  the  efficien- 
cy of  the  a-0  search  is  that  the  best  sequence  of  moves  (as 
judged  by  the  minimax  strategy)  from  a  shallow  search 
can  be  used  to  order  the  initial  moves  in  the  deeper  search 
which  follows.  It  is  necessary  to  develop  and  record  the 
principal  variation  for  each  of  the  searches. 

This  means  that,  instead  of  remembering  just  the  best 
move  at  the  base  of  the  tree,  the  machine  needs  to  record 
the  best  moves  for  each  side  at  every  level  of  the  tree. 
Thus,  it  predicts  the  initial  move,  the  best  reply,  the  best 
counter-reply,  etc.  This  principal  variation  is  then  used 
for  selecting  the  initial  limb  for  the  next  deeper  search  in 


260        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


<^ 


.Threaded  Interpretive 

Languages 


Loeliger 


Threaded  languages  (such  as  FORTH)  are  an  exciting  new  class  of  languages.  They  are  compact 
and  fast,  giving  the  speed  of  assembly  language  with  the  programming  ease  of  BASIC,  and  com- 
bine features  found  in  no  other  programming  languages.  An  increasing  number  of  people  are 
using  them,  but  few  know  much  about  how  they  work.  Is  a  threaded  language  interpreted  or 
compiled?  How  much  memory  overhead  does  it  require?  Just  what  is  an  "inner  interpreter?" 
Threaded  Interpretive  Languages,  by  R.  G.  Loeliger,  concentrates  on  the  development  of  an 
interactive,  extensible  language  with  specific  routines  for  the  ZILOG  Z80  microprocessor.  With 
the  core  interpreter,  assembler,  and  data  type  defining  words  covered  in  the  text,  it  is  possible  to 
design  and  implement  programs  for  almost  any  application  imaginable.  Since  the  language  itself 
is  highly  segmented  into  very  short  routines,  it  is  easy  to  design  equivalent  routines  for  different 
processors  and  produce  an  equivalent  threaded  interpretive  language  for  other  development  sys- 
tems. If  you  are  interested  in  learning  how  to  write  better  FORTH  programs  or  you  want  to  design 
your  own  powerful,  but  low-cost,  threaded  language  specific  to  your  needs,  this  book  is  for  you. 


SAW 

i  in  1 1 


This  and  other  BYTE/McGraw-Hill 
books  are  available  from  BYTE 
Books  or  your  local  computer  store. 

Please  send 


ISBN  0-07-038360- X 
Price  J  18.95 


copies  of  Threaded  Interpretive  Languages 


B11 


Name 


Title 


Company 


Street 


City 


State/Province 


Code 


EliTE 


Peterborough,  NH  03458 


□  Check  enclosed  in  the  amount  of  $ 

C  Bill  Visa  D   Bill  Master  Charge 

Card  No. 

Exp.  Date  

Add  75c  per  book  to  cover  postage  and  handling. 
Please  remit  in  U.S.  funds  or  draw  on  a  U.S.  Bank. 


Circle  167  on  inquiry  card. 


HAYDEN  TALKS 
SYSTEMS... 


New! 

MICROPROCESSOR 
SOFTWARE  DESIGN 

(ed.  Schindler)  A  must  for  systems 
designers  and  software  engineers! 
This  edited  compilation  of  articles 
from  Electronic  Design  magazine 
covers  the  full  spectrum  of  applica- 
tions software.  Includes  discussions 
from  top-down  design  through 
operating  system  specifications  fea- 
turing languages  such  as  BASIC  and 
PASCAL.  #5190-5,  $13.25. 

New! 

DIGITAL  COMPUTER 
SIMULATION 

(Maryanski)  System  simulation 
studies  are  simplified  with  this  new 
book!  Text  discusses  general  prop- 
erties of  significant  systems  for  com- 
puter simulation,  the  mechanism  for 
the  development  of  programs  that 
simulate  discrete  systems,  GPSS  and 
Simscript,  CSMP,  the  System 
Dynamics  approach  to  continuous 
simulation,  and  disciplines  in  which 
simulation  modes  are  applied, 
#  5118-2.  $15.95. 

THE  8086  PRIMER:  An  Intro- 
duction to  its  Architecture, 
System  Design  and 
Programming 

(Morse)  Written  by  the  man  re- 
sponsible for  the  architectural 
definition  of  the  8086  processor. 
Reviews  processors  in  general  and 
discusses  the  8086  in  detail  —  in- 
cluding information  never  before 
published.  Also  covers  motivation 
for  the  design  of  the  8086  chip, 
corrected  procedures,  and  internal 
architecture.  #5165-4.  $9.95. 

Available  at  your  local 
computer  store! 

Write  to: 

Hayden  Book  Company, 

Inc. 

50  Essex  Street 

Rochelle  Park,  NJ  07662 

or  Call  Toll  Free,  24  hours  a  day, 
(1-800-827-3777,  ext.  302)* 

TO  CHARGE  YOUR  ORDER  TO 

Master  charge  or  Visa! 
Minimum  order  is  $10.00; 
Customer  pays  postage  and  handling. 
From  Missouri,  call 
1-800-892-7655,  ext.  302. 


Listing  3:  Additions  to  listing  1  to  implement  an  iterative  tree 
search  algorithm.  These  lines  are  to  be  added  to  the  combination 
of  listings  1  and  2. 

500   FOR  I  =  4  TO  DM:  Z(I  -  2)  =  PV(2,I):  NEXT  I 
510   IF  PV(2,3)  =  H  THEN  DT  =  DM  ELSE  DT  =  2 
720   I  =  L:  PV(L,I)  =  M(L):  IF  L  =  DT  THEN  740 
730   1  =  1+1:  PV(L,I)  =  PV(L  +  1,1):  IF  I  <  DT  THEN  730 
780   IF  DT  =  DM  THEN  800 

790    FOR  I  =  2  TO  DT:  Z(I)  =  PV(2,I):  NEXT  I:  DT  =  DT  +  2: 
GOTO  520 


the  iteration.  In  our  present  algorithm,  we  employ  this 
strategy  by  placing  the  principal  variation  from  the 
previous  search  in  the  killer  array  at  the  start  of  each 
iteration. 

The  first  requirement  is  the  development  and  storage  of 
the  principal  variation.  This  is  fairly  difficult  to  explain 
but  not  very  difficult  to  implement  (see  lines  720  and  730 
of  listing  3).  Once  we  have  a  principal  variation,  we  then 
modify  the  initial  preparation  for  the  look-ahead  search 
(see  lines  500  and  510  of  listing  3). 

This  accomplishes  two  important  things.  At  line  500, 
the  killer  array  receives  the  moves  for  each  side  that  were 
ascertained  to  be  best  on  the  move  calculation  from  the 
previous  turn  (not  the  previous  iteration  of  this  turn,  but 
rather  the  last  time  the  machine  made  a  move).  The  index 
1-2  is  used  because  the  first  two  moves  anticipated  by  that 
variation  (one  for  the  machine  and  one  for  the  opponent) 
have  already  been  played. 

Line  510  checks  to  see  if  the  opponent  actually  made 
the  anticipated  move.  If  so,  an  iterative  search  is  un- 
necessary since  the  principal  variation  from  the  previous 
move  calculation  provides  the  same  ordering  information 
as  would  be  obtained  by  the  iterations.  The  search  depth, 
DT,  is  therefore  set  to  the  maximum  depth,  DM.  If  the 
opponent  does  not  make  the  anticipated  move,  an 
iterative  search  is  required  and  therefore  the  search 
depth,  DT,  is  set  at  the  minimum  value.  Note  that  DT  = 
2  calls  for  a  one-ply  search. 

When  a  search  has  been  completed,  it  is  necessary  to 
determine  if  the  maximum  depth  has  been  reached  or 
whether  another  iteration  is  required.  If  the  latter  case 
holds  true,  the  principal  variation  from  the  most  recent 
iteration  is  stored  in  the  killer  array  and  the  search  depth 
is  increased.  In  our  present  implementation,  each  itera- 
tion is  two  plies  deeper  than  its  predecessor.  Lines  780 
and  790  of  listing  3  accomplish  this  task. 

Analysis  of  Modifications 

With  these  additions,  the  program  will  select  a  move  in 
the  Treasure  Search  game  by  using  an  iterative  a-j3 
minimax  procedure  enhanced  by  the  killer  heuristic.  To 
demonstrate  the  power  of  this  modified  algorithm,  I  have 
made  some  sample  runs  which  count  the  number  of  nodes 
visited  in  the  look-ahead  tree  in  an  actual  game  with  and 
without  the  various  modifications.  These  results  are  very 
informative. 

The  program  was  examined  in  four  variations: 
minimax,  a-0  minimax,  a-/3  minimax  with  the  killer 
heuristic,  and  iterative  a-@  minimax  with  the  killer 
heuristic.  The  version  involving  the  minimax  strategy 
without  a-@  is  produced  simply  by  replacing  line  750 
with: 

750  GOTO  580 


262        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Moke 
Vour 
Dreams 
Come  True 


Imagine  sitting  down  ot  your  computer 
system  and  developing  that  specialized 
application  you've  always  dreamed 
about  —  with  absolutely 
no  programming! 

Now  you  con  with  PRISM™  —  the  first 
Data  Base  Management  System  that 
provides  the  Total  Solution  to  your 
information  management  needs.  UJith 
PRISM™,  you  can  have  your  application 
up  and  running  in  o  matter  of  minutes  — 
not  months. 


PRISM  requires  CP/M  and  C6HSIC.  (CP/M  is  o  registered 
trademark  of  Digital  Research.  CBflSIC  is  a  trademark  of 
Compiler  Systems.) 


PRISM's  flexibility  and  ease  of  use  are 
combined  with  its  full  spectrum  of 
features  and  capabilities  to  make  it  the 
ideal  DBMS  for  a  wide  range  of  business 
applications.  Mailing  Lists,  Patient 
Records,  Real  Estate  Listings,  and  Client 
Billings  are  just  a  few  of  the  possibilities, 
find  PRISM™  provides  the  guality, 
performance,  and  affordability  you  have 
come  to  expect  from  MAG  software 
products. 

To  find  out  how  your  dreams  can 
become  realities,  see  your  PRISM™ 
dealer  today. 

Micro  Applications  Group,  7300  Coldus 
Avenue,  Van  Nuys,  California  91406, 
(213)  881-8076. 


PRISfUl 


TM 


"The  Total  Solution"  (MAE) 


•  MAG  1980 


Circle  168  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980        263 


This  eliminates  all  of  the  a-/3  cutoffs. 

To  insure  comparability  of  our  results,  an  initial  game 
configuration  (digit  assignment)  was  constructed  and 
placed  in  an  array  such  that  each  game  started  with  the 
playing  field  depicted  in  table  1.  In  addition,  the  same 
series  of  moves  was  made  by  the  human  opponent  in  each 
game.  Each  version  of  the  program  calculated  a  move  for 
the  machine's  first  four  times  to  play.  In  each  case,  the 
search  depth  was  set  for  a  seven-ply  search.  The  number 
of  nodes  in  each  of  the  look-ahead  trees  is  presented  in 
table  2.  The  node  count  for  the  iterative  search  is  the  sum 
across  all  iterations. 

An  analysis  of  these  results  demonstrates  the  powerful 
effect  of  the  a-/3  procedure.  By  using  the  IF  statement  at 
line  750  in  the  a-@  versions,  the  search  effort  is  reduced 
dramatically.  In  our  example  with  a  seven-ply  search  and 
with  four  options  at  each  node,  the  a-/3  modification 
reduces  the  node  count  by  a  factor  of  about  10.  Since 
there  is  an  approximate  linear  relationship  between  the 
number  of  nodes  in  the  tree  and  computation  time,  the 
a-0  procedure  selects  a  move  in  one-tenth  the  time  of  the 
full  minimax  search.  Since  the  two  procedures  always 
select  the  same  move,  this  enhancement  in  speed  comes  at 
essentially  no  extra  cost. 

The  results  in  table  2  indicate  that  the  killer  heuristic  is 
also  a  powerful  addition  to  the  a-/3  algorithm.  In  our  ex- 
ample, the  node  count  was  reduced  by  30%  to  50%  by 
simply  remembering  moves  that  had  proved  themselves 
effective  at  an  earlier  stage  in  the  search. 

This  modification  also  provides  substantial  benefits  at 
minimal  extra  cost  in  terms  of  processing  time  and 
memory  requirement.  The  empirical  analysis  presented  in 
table  2  also  demonstrates  the  beneficial  effects  of  the  it- 
erative procedure.  The  number  of  nodes  generated  in  the 
calculation  for  the  first  move  was  reduced  by  almost  25  % 
despite  the  fact  that  searches  of  one  ply,  three  plies,  and 
five  plies  were  conducted  prior  to  the  seven-ply  search. 

In  the  calculations  for  moves  2,  3,  and  4,  the  prior  prin- 
cipal variation  correctly  predicted  the  human's  move  so 
that  the  machine  dispensed  with  the  iterations  because  it 
already  had  the  ordering  information  they  would  have 
produced.  The  results  presented  in  table  2  clearly  indicate 
that  the  iterative  procedure  enhances  the  efficiency  of  the 
search  process. 

Improvements 

A  comparison  of  the  full  minimax  procedure  as  it  was 
employed  in  the  early  1950s  with  the  modern,  enhanced 
a-P  procedure  indicates  a  truly  dramatic  increase  in 
search  efficiency.  The  full  minimax  procedure  averaged 
approximately  17,000  nodes  for  the  first  four  move 
calculations.  The  modern  algorithm  as  presented  in  this 
article  averaged  approximately  600  nodes  for  these  same 
four  calculations.  This  difference  is  large  enough  to  con- 
vert an  impractical  but  elegant  idea  into  a  powerful  pro- 
gramming tool.  I  should  also  point  out  that  the  effec- 
tiveness of  these  procedures  would  be  even  more  notable 
if  we  had  examined  a  game  like  chess  with  more  than 
thirty  options  at  each  node  instead  of  a  simple  game  with 
only  four  options  at  each  node. 

There  is  an  additional  way  to  increase  the  efficiency  of 
the  a-/3  search.  In  the  present  program,  the  evaluations  of 
the  terminal  positions  are  based  on  a  cumulative  process 
in  which  the  treasures  collected  at  each  node  in  the  tree 


Number  of  Nodes  in 
the  Look-ahead  Tree 

First     Second    Third     Fourth 
Move      Move      Move      Move 


Minimax 

13157 

18456 

20029 

17609 

a-0  Minimax 

1965 

1650 

1641 

1794 

a-0  Minimax  with  Killer 

Heuristic 

969 

1023 

926 

830 

Iterative  a-0  Minimax  with 

Killer  Heuristic 

753 

571 

675 

363 

Table  2:  An  empirical  analysis  of  the  minimax  algorithm  and 
enhancements  as  applied  to  the  Treasure  Search  game.  Each 
version  of  the  program  conducted  a  seven-ply  look-ahead 
search. 


are  added  or  subtracted  to  a  running  total.  As  the  search 
process  nears  the  maximum  depth  of  the  tree,  it  is  possi- 
ble to  set  boundary  conditions  (ie:  a  window)  that  deter- 
mine whether  the  final  value  can  influence  the  selection 
process. 

In  many  cases,  the  nonterminal  score  will  be  sufficient- 
ly deviant  that  the  search  can  be  terminated  prematurely 
wthout  any  change  in  the  ultimate  decision  process.  This 
enhancement  can  significantly  reduce  the  time  required  to 
complete  the  search. 

Strategic  Weakness 

This  program  for  Treasure  Search  will  play  a  fairly  in- 
telligent game.  As  presented  here,  however,  it  has  a  ma- 
jor weakness.  When  the  game  reaches  its  final  stages,  the 
machine  continues  to  search  for  a  pathway  which  gives  it 
the  greatest  amount  of  treasure  in  the  long  run.  This  is 
not  an  optimal  strategy  because  the  game  is  won  or  lost  at 
this  stage  by  short-range  planning.  The  first  player  to 
reach  100  wins.  The  machine  with  its  present  strategy 
may  pass  up  a  large  treasure  which  would  provide  an  im- 
mediate win  in  favor  of  a  smaller  one  which  ultimately 
leads  to  a  rich  lode.  This  could  throw  away  an  easy  win. 

Serious  players  may  wish  to  introduce  a  special  set  of 
instructions  for  the  endgame  to  correct  for  this  weakness. 
The  machine's  game  can  also  be  strengthened  by  convert- 
ing the  program  to  assembly  language.  The  deeper  the 
look-ahead  search,  the  greater  the  apparent  intelligence 
of  the  machine.  Conversion  to  assembly  language  will 
permit  the  program  to  search  six  plies  deeper  without  in- 
creasing move-selecting  time. 

This  article  should  provide  useful  information  to 
anyone  who  wishes  to  write  a  game  program  which 
employs  the  a-/3  minimax  procedure.  ■ 


References 

1 .  Knuth,  D  E,  and  R  W  Moore,  "An  Analysis  of  Alpha-Beta  Pruning," 
Artificial  Intelligence,  1975,  Volume  6,  pages  293  thru  326. 

2.  Maurer,  W  D  "Alpha-Beta  Pruning,"  November  1979  BYTE,  pages 
84  thru  96. 

3.  Slagle,  J  R,  and  J  K  Dixon,  "Experiments  with  Some  Programs 
That  Search  Game  Trees,"  Journal  of  the  Association  for  Com- 
puting Machinery,  1969,  Volume  16,  pages  189  thru  207. 

4.  Von  Neumann,  J,  and  O  Morgenstern,  Theory  of  Games  and 
Economic  Behavior.  Princeton  NJ,  Princeton  University  Press, 
1944. 


264        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


CP/M*  compatible  software 


SYSTEM  MAINTENANCE 


DIAGNOSTICS  I:  Easily  the  most  comprenensive  set  ot  CP/M  compatible 
system  check-out  programs  ever  assembled.  Finds  hardware  errors  in  your 
system,  confirms  suspicions,  or  just  gives  your  system  a  clean  bill  ol  health. 
Tests  ■ 

•  Memory        •  CPU  (8080/8085/Z80)        •  Terminal 

•  Disk  •  Printer 

To  our  knowledge  the  CPU  test  is  the  first  of  its  kind  anywhere.  Diagnostics  I  can 
help  you  find  problems  before  they  become  serious.  A  good  set  of  diagnostic 
routines  are  a  must  in  any  program  library. 

Minimal  requirements:  24K  CP/M.  Supplied  with  complete  user  manual: 
$60.00  Manual  alone:  $15.00. 


ACCOUNTING 


ACCOUNTS  PAYABLE/RECEIVABLE:  A  complete,  user  oriented  package 
which  features: 

automatic  postings  to  general  ledger  (optional) 

accounts  payable:        •  check  printing  with  invoice  •  invoice  aging 

accounts  receivable:    •  progress  billing  •  customer  statements 

•  partial  invoice  payments      •  invoice  aging 
The  entire  package  is  menu  driven  and  easy  to  learn  and  use.  It  incorporates  error 
checking  and  excellent  user  displays.  This  package  can  be  used  stand  alone  or 
with  the  General  Ledger  below. 

Supplied  with  extensive  user  manual:  $200.00.        Manual  alone:  $20.00. 

GENERAL  LEDGER:  A  complete,  user  oriented  package  which  features: 

•  Accepts  postings  from  external  programs  (i.e.  AP/AR  above) 

•  Accepts  directly  entered  postings 

•  Maintains  account  balances  for  current  month,  quarter,  and  year  and  previous 
three  quarters 

•  Financial  reports:  trial  balance,  income  statement  balance  sheet,  and  more 
Completely  menu  driven  and  easy  to  learn  and  use.  Excellent  displays  and  error 
checking  for  trouble  free  operation.  Can  be  used  stand  alone  or  with  Accounts 
Payable/Receivable  above. 

Supplied  with  extensive  user  manual:  $200.00.       Manual  alone:  $20.00. 
Both  require  48K  CP/M,  terminal  with  cursor  positioning,  home  and  clear  home, 
one  8"  disk  or  Two  5"  disks.  CBASIC2  required. 

TEXT  PROCESSING 

TFS— Text  Formatting  System:  An  extremely  powerful  formatter  More 
than  50  commands    Supports  all  major  features  including: 

•  left  &  right  margin  justification  •  user  defined  macros 

•  dynamic  insertion  from  disk  file  •  underlining  and  backspace 

TFS  lets  you  make  multiple  copies  of  any  text.  For  example:  Personalized  form 
letters  complete  with  name  &  address  &  other  insertions  from  a  disk  file.  Text  is 
not  limited  to  the  size  of  RAM  making  TFS  perfect  for  reports  or  any  big  job. 

Text  is  entered  using  CP/M  standard  editor  or  most  any  CP/M  compatible 
editor  TFS  will  link  completely  with  Super-M-List  making  personalized  form 
letters  easy 

Requires:  24K  CP/M. 

Supplied  with  extensive  user  manual:  $85.00.        Manual  alone:  $20.00. 

Source  to  TFS  in  8080  assembler  (can  be  assembled  using  standard  CP/M 
assembler)  plus  user  manual  $250.00. 

MAILING  LIST 

SUPER-M-LIST:  A  complete,  easy  to  use  mailing  list  program  package 
Allows  for  two  names,  two  address,  city,  state,  zip  and  a  three  digit  code  field  for 
added  flexibility.  Super-M-List  can  sort  on  any  field  and  produce  mailing  labels 
direct  to  printer  or  disk  file  for  later  printing  or  use  by  other  programs.  Super-M 
List  is  the  perfect  companion  to  TFS  Handles  1981  Zip  Codes! 

Requires:  48K  CP/M. 

Supplied  with  complete  user  manual:  $75.00.        Manual  alone:  $10.00 

UTILITIES 

Utility  pack  #1 :  A  collection  of  programs  that  you  will  find  useful  and  maybe 
even  necessary  in  your  daily  work  (we  did' )  Includes 
CMP:    Compare  two  files  for  equality. 

Compacts  many  files  into  one.  useful  when  you  run  out  of  directory 
entries 

In  core  sort  of  variable  length  records. 
Extended,  alphabetical  directory  listing  with  groupings  by  common 
extension 

Formatted  listings  to  printer. 
Lists  files  to  CRT  a  page  at  a  time 
.  plus  more . . . 


ARCHIVER 

SORT: 
XDIR 

PRINT 
PG: 


PROGRAMMING  LANGUAGES 


■  recursive  procedures/functions  • 

•  FOR  (loop) 
■IF...  THEN. . .  ELSE 

•  READ  &  WRITE 


SuperScft 


Requires  24K  CP/M  r—       ..  o     <■,  -r       i  i 

Supplied  with  instructions  on  discette  $50  00  MiTSt  111  OOTtWdre  iGClinOlOQy 


FORTH:  a  full,  extended  FORTH  interpreter/compiler  produces  COMPACT, 
ROMABLE  code.  As  fast  as  compiled  FORTRAN,  as  easy  to  use  as  interactive 
BASIC. 

SELF  COMPILING:  Includes  every  line  of  source  code  necessary  to  recompile 

itself. 

EXTENSIBLE:  Adds  functions  at  will. 

Z80  &  8080  ASSEMBLERS  included 

Single  license,  OEM  licensing  available 

Please  specify  CPU  type:  Z80  or  8080 

Supplied  with  extensive  user  manual  and  tutorial:  $150.00 

Documentation  alone:  $25.00 

ENHANCED  'TINY'  PASCAL:  We  still  call  it  Tiny'  but  it's  bigger  and  better 
than  ever!  This  is  the  Famous  Chung/Yuen  Tiny  Pascal  with  more  features 
added.  Features  include: 

•integer  arithmetic     -CASE 
•sequential  disk  I/O  •  one  dimensional  arrays 
•WHILE  •  PEAK'  &  POKE 

•REPEAT...  UNTIL  -more 
Tiny'  Pascal  is  fast.  Programs  execute  up  to  ten  times  faster  than  similar  BASIC 
programs. 

SOURCE  TOO!  We  still  distribute  source,  in  Tiny  Pascal,  on  each  discette 
sold.  You  can  even  recompile  the  compiler,  add  features  or  just  gain  insight  into 
compiler  construction. 

Tiny'  Pascal  is  perfect  for  writing  text  processors,  real  time  control  systems, 
virtually  any  application  which  requires  high  speed.  Requires:  36K  CP/M.  Supplied 
with  complete  user  manual  and  source  on  discette:  $85.00. 
Manual  alone:  $10.00. 

SOFTWARE  SECURITY 

ENCODE/DECODE:  A  complete  software  security  system  for  CP/M.  Encode/ 
Decode  is  a  sophisticated  coding  program  package  which  transforms  data  stored 
on  disk  into  coded  text  which  is  completely  unrecognizable  Encode/Decode 
supports  multiple  security  levels  and  passwords.  A  user  defined  combination 
(One  billion  possible)  is  used  to  code  and  decode  a  file.  Uses  are  unlimited.  Below 
are  a  few  examples: 

•  data  bases  •  general  ledger  •  inventory 

•  payroll  files  •  correspondence  •  accounts  pay/rec 

•  programs  •  tax  records  •  mailing  lists 
Encode/Decode  is  available  in  two  versions: 

Encode/Decode  I  provides  a  level  of  security  suitable  for  normal  use. 
Encode/Decode  II  provides  enhanced  security  for  the  most  demanding  needs. 
Both  versions  come  supplied  on  discette  and  with  a  complete  user  manual. 

Encode/Decode  I:    $50.00 

Encode/Decode  II:    $100.00  Manual  alone:  $15.00 

— INTERCOMPUTER  COMMUNICATIONS 

TERM:  a  complete  intercommunications  package  for  linking  your  computer  to 
other  computers.  Link  either  to  other  CP/M  computers  or  to  large  timesharing 
systems.  TERM  is  comparable  to  other  systems  but  costs  less,  delivers  more  and 
source  is  provided  on  discette! 

With  TERM  you  can  send  and  receive  ASCII  and  Hex  files  (COM  too.  with 
included  convertion  program)  with  any  other  CP/M  computer  which  has  TERM  or 
compatible  package.  Allows  real  time  communication  between  users  on  separate 
systems  as  well  as  acting  as  timesharing  terminal. 

•  Engage/disengage  printer  •  error  checking  and  auto  retry 
•terminal  mode  for  timesharing  between  systems  -conversational  mode 

•  send  files  •  receive  files 
Requires:  32K  CP/M. 

Supplied  with  user  manual  and  8080  source  code:  $11 0.00 

Manual  alone:  $15.00. 

CP/M  Formats:  8"  soft  sectored,  5"  Northstar, 
5"  Micropolis  Mod  II,  Vector  MZ 
All  Orders  and  General  Information: 
SUPERSOFT  ASSOCIATES 
P.O.  BOX  1628 
CHAMPAIGN,  IL  61820 
(217)359-2112 

Technical  Hot  Line:  (217)  359-2691 
(answered  only  when  technician  is  available) 

'CP/M  REGISTEREP  TRADEMARK  DIGITAL  RESEARCH 


VISA 


Fmaslei  charge! 

L.     ■*.     A 

Circle  169  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


265 


Ask  BYTE 


Conducted  by  Steve  Ciarcia 


The  Automatic 
Apartment 


Dear  Steve, 

I  would  like  to  con- 
gratulate you  on  your 
remote-control  article  using 
the  BSR  X-10  ("Computerize 
a  Home,"  January  1980 
BYTE,  page  28).  I  have  built 
a  unit,  and  it  is  now  so 


much  a  part  of  my  life  that  I 
take  it  for  granted.  It  wakes 
me  up,  controls  the  lights, 
and  guards  the  apartment  in 
conjunction  with  a  simple 
burgler  alarm. 

I  have  envisioned  a 
system  of  lighting  control 
that  would  illuminate  any 
room  that  I  enter,  while 
darkening  the  one  I  just  left. 


In  "Ask  BYTE, "  Steve  Ciarcia  answers  questions  on  any 
area  of  microcomputing.  The  most  representative  questions 
received  each  month  will  be  answered  and  published.  Do 
you  have  a  nagging  problem?  Send  your  inquiry  to: 

Ask  BYTE 

c/o  Steve  Ciarcia 

POB  582 

Glastonbury  CT  06033 
If  you  are  a  subscriber  to  The  Source,  send  your  questions 
by  electronic  mail  or  chat  with  Steve  (TCE317)  directly.  Due 
to  the  high  volume  of  inquiries,  personal  replies  cannot  be 
given.  Be  sure  to  include  'Ask  BYTE"  in  the  address. 


For  this  system  to  work,  it 
must  keep  track  of  the 
number  of  people  in  the 
apartment  (if  there  are  more 
than  one),  and  it  must  be 
able  to  sense  their  motion 
from  room  to  room.  Thus, 
if  one  person  is  in  the  living 
room,  and  he  goes  to  the 
kitchen,  the  kitchen  light 
should  come  on,  while  the 
living  room  light  should  go 
off.  If  there  were  more  than 
one  person  in  the  living 
room,  the  light  should  re- 
main on  until  the  last  person 
has  left.  Of  course,  manual 
control  should  be  available, 
and  the  system  should  be 
able  to  recognize  any  sens- 
ing errors  it  may  make,  and 
reset  itself  accordingly. 

Obviously,  I  need  a  door- 
way sensor  that  will  detect  a 
person  passing  through,  and 
also  detect  the  direction  he 
is  going.  Would  you  suggest 
ultrasonic  sensors,  or  would 
infrared  optical  sensors  be 
more  practical?  Could  you 
provide  some  circuit  ideas  to 
help  me  along7 
Jim  Porter 

/  am  always  glad  to  hear 


from  someone  who  takes 
computer  control  seriously. 
Having  a  computer  and 
automating  your  apartment 
makes  being  "gadget  happy" 
sound  almost  respectable.  In 
any  case,  I  am  familiar  with 
your  problem,  and  I'll  try  to 
offer  a  few  circuits  that 
might  help. 

When  I  first  got  involved 
with  security  systems,  I  did 
a  lot  of  investigation  on  mo- 
tion detectors,  ultrasonics, 
and  infrared  systems.  Very 
few  companies  offer  auto- 
matic systems  that  count 
people  and  control  lights  in 
rooms.  This  should  give  you 
some  indication  of  what  you 
are  getting  yourself  into. 

Two  possible  methods 
that  come  to  mind  are 
detecting  the  motion  of 
people  within  a  room  or 
counting  them  as  they  enter 
and  exit. 

Motion  detectors  usually 
incorporate  one  of  three 
techniques:  infrared,  ultra- 
sonic, and  microwave.  The 
infrared  types  are  the 
cheapest.  They  rely  upon 
changes  in  ambient  light, 
Text  continued  on  page  270 


To  Place  An  Order 
1-800-231-3680 


MARYMAC  INDUSTRIES,  INC.  ■ 

(Radio  /hack 


Questions  &  Answers 
Texas  1-713-392-0747 


AUTHORIZED  SALES  CENTER 

BRAND  NEW  IN  CARTONS  DELIVERED.  Marymac  Industries  owns  &  operates  Radio  Shack  ©  dealership  in  Katy,  Texas.  Warran- 
ties will  be  honored  by  all  company  owned  Radio  Shack©  stores,  &  participating  franchisees  and  dealer  authorized  sales  centers.  Save 
State  Sales  Tax.  Texas  Residents  Add  Only  5%  Sales  Tax.  Open  Mon.-Sat.  10-7.  We  pay  freight  and  insurance.  No  extra  charge  for 
Master  Charge  &  Visa.  Call  us  for  reference  in  or  near  your  city.  Ref:  Katy  National  Bank,  Katy,  Texas.  Radio  Shack®  Authorized 
Sales  Center,  21969  Katy  Fwy,  Katy,  Houston  Texas  77450. 


WE  OFFER  ON 
REQUEST 

Federal  Express 


Houston  Intercontinental  Airport 
Delivery 

U.P.S.  BLUE 

References  from  people  who  have 
bought  computers  from  us  probably 
in  your  city 

ED  McMANUS 


0 

0 

0 
0 


In  stock  TRS-80  Modal  I  &  II 
Taking  ordars  for  Modal  III 

Where  Your  Dollar 
Means  More 


10%  15% 

OR    MORE 


WE  ALWAYS 
OFFER 

0   NO  extra  charge  for  Master  Charge 
or  Vise 

0   We  always  pay  the  freight  and 
insurance 

0   Toll  free  order  number 

0   Our  capability  to  go  to  the  giant  Tandy 
Computer  warehouse  5  hours  away, 
in  Ft.  Worth,  Texas,  to  keep  you  in 
stock. 

JOE  McMANUS 


^*^^^?j 


266        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  lirc 


Circle  60  on  inquiry  card. 


Now 
Graphics 

for  your  computer 

$680 


Expand  your  computer's  capabilities  with  this  easy-to-use  drum  plotter. 

The  Strobe  Model  100  interfaces  to  any  computer  to  generate  professional  quality  graphics. 

OFFERING  High  Resolution  Graphics  Output  *  Outstanding  Performance  *  Assembler  Coded 
Drivers  for  High  Speed  Plotting  *  Precise  Operator  Controls  *  Interactive  Coordinate  Input 

ALSO  AVAILABLE   Hardware  Interfaces  for  -  TRS-80  •  APPLE  II  •  PET  •  S-100. 
Applications  Software  Package  providing  vector  plotting  and  variable  size  alphanumerics 
for:  TRS-80  Level  II  BASIC,  Applesoft  BASIC,  Northstar  BASIC,  CBASIC, 
Microsoft  BASIC  &  FORTRAN. 

•TRS-80.  APPLE  It,  and  PET  are  trademarks  of  Tandy  Corp. ,  Apple. Computer  Co.. 
and  Commodore  Business  Machines,  respectively 

Circle  170  on  inquiry  card. 


S 


•  *4" 


.«.      XV*- 


mm 

3  3^^^.    >SK* 


■-  '•':'". 


\v,.\ 


STROBE  INCORPORATED 

897-5A  Independence  Avenue,  Mountain  View,  CA  94043 
(415)  969-5130 


la 


F 


+  12V 
A 


**■     TRANSDUCER 


I 


8 


>1K 
Af    AD 

Fn 


RST  VCC 

TRG 
NE555 


.0.001/jF 


/77 


rt? 


DJUST 
FOR   23  kHz 


;o.oimf 


m 


Number  Type  +5V       GND        +12V 


IC1  LM1812 

IC2  NE555 

IC3  7404 


8 

14 


5,  10,  15       12 

1 

7 


lb 


■12V 


LM309H 


16-42mH 
MILLER   6211 


1 


+  5V 
A 


GND 


HEAT    SINK 
REQUIRED 


-3h 


!22K 


rh 


|22Jl 


470ft 


100ft 
— Wi        f 


IN  Rxl 


„.,T  MOD 

OUT  |N 


IC1 
LM1812 


ft? 


:10pf 


J<r- 

IC3 

7404 


1.5K 


;0.01/iF 


RST 


TRG 


OUT 


IC2 
NE555 


CTLV 


/77 


/T7 


■S2K 

"?    ADJUST 
FOR 
23  kHz 


;0.01/iF 


rn 

:o.ooi^f 


m 


+  I2V 


Figure  1:  Ultrasonic  transmitters.  The  circuit  of  la  has  a  usable 
range  of  about  twenty  feet.  The  circuit  of  figure  lb  is  more  ap- 
propriate for  greater  distances.  Both  circuits  transmit  con- 
tinuously at  23  kHz. 


SENSITIVITY 
1M 
w. 


,0.01/iF 
MYLAR 


I 


TRANSDUCER 


r 


^2V 


470ft 

— WNr 


1N5231 
.100MF         M.    5.1V 
16V 


0.005^F 


■ft 


rn 


10K 
— y&- 


8 


TR 
TC 


V+  OUT 

NE567 

LF  GND      OF 


4.7  K 
— vw — 


.0.005 


:0.02MF 


2.2K 
-w\>— 


10  K 
-wv- 


:0.02/iF 


,  TTL  LEVEL 
OUT 


2N2222 


LOGIC    0 

SIGNAL   PRESENT 

LOGIC  1 

SIGNAL    NOT    PRESENT 


m 

Figure  2:  Ultrasonic  receiver.  This  simple  receiver  has  TTL-compatible  outputs,  and  it  will  work  with  either  transmitter  in  figure  1. 

268        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


& 


OSBORNE 

MEANS 

BUSINESS! 


Discover  What  A  Truly  Great  Business  System 

Can  Mean  For  You! 


Buying  a  business  software  package  can  be  a 
difficult  and  frustrating  process.  Your  needs  won't 
conform  to  any  standardized  system,  and  you  can't 
take  the  time  to  develop  your  own  system  from 
scratch.  After  all,  why  re-invent  the  wheel? 

Before  you  (or  anybody  else)  installs  a  computer 
system  for  your  business,  you  owe  it  to  yourself  to  read 
our  books. 

OSBORNE/McGraw-Hill  has  published  these 
celebrated  business  programs  in  book  form  to  help 
you  know  what's  in  a  good  business  software  package 
and  what  it  can  do  for  you. 


h  awr  A&axtntm 


PAYROLL  WITH 

COST 

ACCOUNTING* 


ACCOUNTS 
PAYABLE/ 
ACCOUNTS 
RECEIVABLE  * 


, 


GENERAL 
LEDGER* 


What  to  expect  from  a  GOOD 
business  system 

Osborne's  three  business  books  are  renowned 
for  excellence  in  design  and  in  documentation.  Each 
book  is  written  from  a  system  user's  point  of  view,  and 
carefully  describes  the  mechanical  design  of  the 
system,  including  the  function  and  operation  of  each 
program.  Our  books  explain  in  detail  how  to  use  the 
programs.  What's  more,  they  contain  complete 
program  listings  and  supporting  technical 
documentation,  like  data  file  structure,  hardware 
requirements  and  specific  information  about 
changing  and  installing  the  programs.  These 
are  also  available,  ready  to  run  on  your  computer, 
from  independent  dealers  in  the  Osborne  Dealer 
Network.  Call  or  write  for  a  dealer  referral  list. 


Order  FOrm  i  *  The  books  are  available  In  both  Wang  BASIC  and  C-BASIC 

Please  send  me  the  following  books* 


Title 

Price 

Quantity 

Amount 

Payroll  w/Cost  Acctg.  -  CBASIC 

S20.00 

Accounts  Payable/Receivable  -  CBASIC 

S20.OO 

General  Ledger  •  CBASIC 

S20.00 

Taxi  Calif,  residents  only  6%  /  6  1 13%  BART 

Tax 

Shipping 

TOTAL 

USA.  S4.00  foreign 

Please  tend  Information  package  fori 

Q  End  user                       □  Deals 

Address: 


City  i 


fi\  OSBORNE/McGraw-Hill 

630  Bancroft  Way,  Dept.  BIO 
Berkeley,  CA  947  lO 

For  faster  shipment  or  credit  card,  phone  (41 5)  548-2805 


Hi 


1124 


Circle  171  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


269 


Text  continued  from  page  266: 
and  the  latest  designs  incor- 
porate an  active  photosen- 
sitive integrated  circuit.  In 
fact,  Delco  Electronics  (7 
Oakland  St,  POB  2, 
Amesbury  MA  01913)  was 
offering  an  under-$30  kit  a 
while  back.  In  your  applica- 
tion, with  lights  flashing  on 
and  off  this  may  not  be  a 
reliable  approach. 

There  are  many  ultra- 
sonic systems  on  the  market, 
and  they  range  in  price  from 
$50  to  $100.  My  only 
criticism  of  them  is  that  they 
are  prone  to  false  alarms 
and  you  may  find  that  the 
harmonics  interfere  with  the 
BSR  system.  If  you'd  like  to 
try  placing  one  across  a 
doorway  or  diagonally 
across  a  room,  you  could 
try  the  circuits  shown  in 
figures  1  and  2.  These  units 
operate  at  23  kHz.  Depend- 
ing upon  the  sensitivity  set- 
ting, they  will  detect  most 
anything  passing  through 
the  beam.  For  small  rooms, 
you  won't  need  much 


power,  so  the  circuit  of 
figure  la  should  suffice.  If 
you  need  a  range  of  greater 
than  twenty  feet,  use  the 
higher-power  version  shown 
in  figure  lb.  The  receiver  for 
either  circuit  is  shown  in 
figure  2.  By  the  way,  the 
output  is  TTL  (transistor- 
transistor  logic)-compatible. 
Normally  the  signal  will  be 
a  logic  0  (ie:  nothing 
interrupting  the  beam  be- 
tween the  transmitter  and 
receiver);  the  signal  will  go 
to  a  logic  1  only  when 
someone  walks  into  the 
room. 

The  most  effective  system 
for  detecting  motion  uses 
microwave  radia- 
tion—similar to  police  radar 
and  operating  on  the  same 
X-band  frequency.  In  my  ex- 
perience, these  are  the  best 
by  far.  They  are  relatively 
false-alarm  free  and  very 
sensitive.  I  have  them  in- 
stalled throughout  my 
home,  and  I  have  found 
their  reliability  to  be  excep- 
tional. Unfortunately,  they 


are  expensive  (in  the  range 
of  $150  to  $400  for  domestic 
installations).  A  good  unit  is 
the  Midex  55  made  by 
Solfan  (665  Clyde  Ave, 
Mountain  View  CA  94043). 
Solfan's  more  expensive 
units  have  contact-closure 
outputs  which  would  work 
well  in  your  application. 

The  final  solution  to  your 
problem  might  be  to  build  a 
people  counter.  The  circuit 
in  figure  3  (sent  to  me  by 
William  Curlew)  might  be 
exactly  what  you  need.  It 
consists  of  two  photodetec- 
tors  (and  two  separate  light 
sources)  mounted  in  the 
doorjamb. Normally  the  light 
beam  is  uninterrupted  and 
the  output  of  the 
photodetectors  is  low.  As 
long  as  there  is  light  on  both 
sensors,  the  output  of  IC2b 
is  low.  As  someone  starts 
through  the  doorway,  one 
of  the  sensors  goes  high, 
clocking  the  JK  flip-flop  into 
one  of  two  direction  states. 
When  the  person  fully  enters 
the  doorway,  blocking  both 


the  sensors,  a  trigger  pulse  is 
generated  and  sent  to  gates 
2c  and  2d.  Depending  upon 
the  state  of  the  flip-flop,  the 
clock  pulse  will  be  directed 
to  either  the  count-up  or 
count-down  line  of  the  4-bit 
up/down  counter,  IC5.  The 
counter  will  increment  as 
people  walk  into  the  room 
and  decrement  they  walk 
out.  A  manual  reset  is  pro- 
vided to  start  things  out  cor- 
rectly. When  the  4  outputs 
are  tied  to  a  parallel  input 
port,  your  computer  can 
read  it  as  often  as  necessary 
to  determine  how  many 
people  are  left  in  the  room. 
Since  the  counting  is  done  in 
hardware,  timing  is  not 
critical.  It  will  accommodate 
only  fifteen  people  in  its 
present  form,  so  don't  have 
too  many  guests  at  your 
parties.  Finally,  for  absolute 
certainty,  you  may  want  to 
use  it  with  the  ultrasonic  cir- 
cuits previously  discussed. 
Steve 


IC2 
74LS00 


lOOpF 


-EXT 


R/C 


IC4 
74121 


Al 


IC2 

74LS00 


IC1 
74LS14 


10 


^DH^ 


I 1 

!         IC2  I 

74LSO0        | 

L9, . 

-B    I       5 


HD^ 


NOTE:  Q1  AND  Q2  MOUNTED  IN  DOORJAMB 
WITH  TWO  LIGHT  SOURCES  ON 
OPPOSITE  SIDE. 


ICS 
74LS193 


CTDN 


CLEAR 


14 


2.2K 
-wv — 


1 


RESET 


-Obi 

-Ob2 
-0»3 


TO 

COMPUTER 
/PARALLEL 
INPUT    PORT 


+  5V 


m 


Number 

Type 

+5VGND 

IC1 

74LS14 

14       7 

IC2 

74LS00 

14       7 

IC3 

7473 

4     11 

IC4 

74121 

14       7 

IC5 

74LS193 

16       8 

Figure  3:  This  circuit  is  capable  of  optically  detecting  the  passage  of  people  through  a  doorway  and  maintaining  a  count  of  people  in  a 
room.  The  photo-transistors  sense  motion  through  the  doorway  and  cause  the  count  stored  in  IC5  (a  4-bit  binary  counter)  to  either  be 
incremented  or  decremented,  depending  upon  the  direction  of  passage. 


270       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


[SUPER  SAVINGS  ON  SOFTWARE] 

Limited  Time  Offer  —  Offer  Expires  December  31,  1980 


DIGITAL  RESEARCH    DISK 
Double  Density  or  QuadM^uHALfevAl 

CP/M®  1.4  Northstar 

$149/$25 

CP/M®  2.2  Cromemco 

$189/$25 

(Specify  Single  or  Double  Density) 

TRS-80® 

Model  1  CP/M  1.4    

$129 

Model  II  CP/M  2.2    ... 

.. . .  $149 

MICROSOFT 

Basic  80 

$269/$25 

Basic  Compiler    

$325/$25 

Fortran  80   

$349/$25 

MICROPRO 

Word-Star  (Ver.  2.1)  . 

.  $349/$40 

Word-Star  2.1 

with  Mail  Merge    

.  $465/$65 

Mail-Merge 

(Requires  2.0  or  2.1) 

.  $119/$20 

DataStar    

.  $269/$35 

Word-Master    

.   $119/$25 

SuperSort  I   

.  $189/$25 

SuperSort  II    

.  $159/$25 

SuperSort  III     

.  $109/$25 

COMPUTER  PATHWAYS 

•  Pearl  (level  1)     

..  $89/$25 

•  Pearl  (level  2)     

.  $279/$25 

•  Pearl  (level  3)    

$529/$25 

MICRO-AP 

•Selector  III-C2 

.  $249/$20 

•  Selector  IV    

.  $429/$35 

•  Glector 

.  $289/$25 

S-Basic  Compiler    . . . 

.  $289/$25 

WHITESMITHS 

"C"  Compiler    call  FOR  PRICE 

Pascal  (incl  "C")    .  call  for  price 

IHTERSYSTEMS 

Pascal/Z    Version   3 

A    Z-80 

Native    Code    Pascal 

Compiler 

$345 

•    Requires  CBASIC-2 

®    Mfgs.  Trademark 

*      Q  Supplied  in  source  code 

D    Requires  MICROSOFT  BASIC 

SHIPPING  &  INSURANCE 

$2.50  Per  Package.  P 

'ices 

Assumed  Advanced  Prepayment 

COD  &  Charge  Cards  2%  Higher 

Business  Applications 
Software 

PEACHTREE 

'□General  Ledger    ...  $399/$40 
•□Accts  Receivable    . .  $399/$40 

*DAccts  Payable   $399/$40 

'□Payroll   $399/$40 

•□Inventory    $399/$40 

•□Property  Mgt   $799/$40 

•□C.P.A.  Client  Write-Up$799/$40 
•□Mailing  Address    . . .  $349/$40 


SUPER  SPECIAL! 

Purchase  General  Ledger, 

A/P,  A/R,  Payroll 

(Structured  Systems,  Peachtree 

or  Graham-Dorian) 

AHD 

DEDUCT  AN  ADDITIONAL 

$100 

From  The  Total  Order 


STRUCTURED  SYSTEMS 

•  General  Ledger  $699/$25 

•  Accts  Receivable    . . .  $699/$25 
•Accts  Payable    $699/$25 

•  Payroll    $699/$25 

•  Inventory  Control   . . .  $399/$25 
•Analyst $189/$15 

•  Letteright     $189/$25 

•  NAD    $85/$20 

QSORT         $85/$20 

GRAHAM-DORIAN 

••General  Ledger   $699/$35 

••Accts  Receivable     . .  $699/$35 

••Accts  Payable    $699/$35 

••Payroll    $699/$35 

••Inventory  $699/$35 

••Cash  Register    $449/$35 

••Apartment  Mgt.    . . .    $449/$35 
••Job  Costing    $699/$25 

APPLE  OWNERS 
Now  Available! 

On  Microsoft  Z80/CPM 
Conversion  Unit  For  The  Apple 
THE  APPLESOFT 
—  Call  For  Price- 
Also  Available  For  Use  With  It 
PEACHTREE 
Business  Software  Application  Packages 
CALL     FOR     BARGAIN     PRICES 


ALL 

LIFEBOAT  ASSOCIATES 
SOFTWARE 
LESS  1 0% 


C  BASIC  II 
$89 


ALL 

COMPUTER  DESIGN 

LABS  SOFTWARE 

LESS  20% 


ELECTRIC 
PENCIL 

15% 


All  Offers  Subject  To  Withdrawl 

All  Prices  Scheduled  To  Change 

December  31,  1980 

All  Prices  Are  For  Software  Sup- 
plied On  Standard  IBM  Compat- 
ible 8"  Single-Density  Disk.  Add 
$10.00  Per  Disk  For  The  Follow- 
ing 5Va"  CPM®  Compatible 
Formats: 

-Northstar  DD 

-Northstar  SD 

-Northstar  Quad 

-Micropolis  QD 

(Vector  Graphics) 

Superbrain  3.0,  DD  or  QD 
(Some    5V4"    Transfers    Require 
More  Than  One  Disk).  For  Other 
Formats  Contact  Us  For  Pricing. 
Specify  Format  To  Avoid  Delay 
8"  Assumed  If  Not  Specified 


Circle  172  on  inquiry  card. 


MiniMicroMart,  Inc. 


master  charge 


1«1«    hmoc  Qtroot    Qx/ran,  ,CP    MY    l^fYl   mRlA99-4Afi7 


T\A/Y7in-RA1-nA91 


Remote  Control 
in  Europe 

Dear  Steve, 

Please  tell  me  if  the  X-10 
remote-control  system  by 
BSR  could  be  operated  on 
220  V  50  Hz  in  Europe.  I 
see  from  the  schematic 
diagrams  and  various  pic- 
tures it  is  designed  to  work 
on  110  V  60  Hz.  Do  they 
have  a  220  V  system7  If 
not,  is  there  any  way  I 
could  adapt  the  system  to 
work  on  a  220  V  system. 

Please  tell  me  where  I  can 
buy  the  set  (ie:  common 
console,  cordless  controller, 
appliance  module,  lamp 
module,  in-wall  switch 
module)  using  an  American 
Express  card;  maybe  from 
Sears  as  you  said  in  your  ar- 
ticle. If  so,  please  let  me 
know  the  address  of  Sears; 
for  that  matter,  any  reliable 
dealer  who  accepts 
American  Express.  I'll  be 
grateful  for  the  two  answers. 
Next  time  you  are  in  Europe 
drop  in  and  see  us.  We  have 
a  wood  stove  too,  and  I 
hope  to  connect  it  to  the 


central  heating  system. 
Rangith  Amitirigala 
Brugg,  Switzerland 

Up  to  this  point  the  X-10 
system  has  been  available 
only  in  the  American  ver- 
sion (115  VAC  60  Hz).  The 
custom  LSI  (large-scale  in- 
tegration) device  used  in  the 
American  units,  surprisingly 
enough,  can  work  on  either 
50  or  60  Hz.  The  polarity 
set  on  pin  13  of  the 
command-console  integrated 
circuit  selects  either  of  the 
two  operating  frequencies. 
These  consoles  cannot, 
however,  be  easily  con- 
verted from  115  V  to  220  V 
operation  without  con- 
siderable component 
changes. 

A  call  to  BSR  (USA)  Ltd 
in  New  Jersey  produced 
some  fruitful  answers  to 
your  question.  Even  though 
BSR  is  working  on  a  Euro- 
pean version  of  the  X-10, 
another  company  has  just 
announced  availability  of  a 
220  V  50  Hz  unit.  I  suggest 
that  you  contact  this  firm 
for  price  and  delivery.  The 


source  is:  Busch-Jaeger 
Elektro  GmbH,  5880 
Ludenscheid,  Freisenberg, 
Post  Each  1280,  West  Ger- 
many (BRD). 

As  for  Sears  Roebuck 
and  Company,  it  is  my 
understanding  that  the  firm 
accepts  only  its  own  credit 
card.  Rather  than  worry 
about  which  stores  will 
accept  your  credit  card,  you 
may  find  it  easier  to  go  your 
local  bank  (in  Switzerland) 
and  arrange  for  a  letter  of 
credit  or  bank  draft  when 
ordering  from  an  American 
company. 
Steve 


Operational  Amplifiers 

I  have  been  using  the 
AD284J  isolation 
operational-amplifier 
system  that  you  described  in 
"Mind  Over  Matter"  (June 
1979  BYTE,  page  49)  as  an 
EKG  (electrocardiogram) 
monitor,  in  conjunction 
with  a  surplus  chart 
recorder.  Can  you  recom- 
mend some  books  that  will 


Introducing . . . 

system — one 


&    MINDexCHANGE 
softsources 


System — one  is  a  Pascal  based  information 
storage  and  retrieval  system.  Softsources  are 
ready  made  databases  of  computing 
resources,  contract  clauses,  bibliographic 
references,  and  more. 

ml\Dex  is  suitable  for  the  researcher,  lawyer, 
contractor,  educator,  and  student.  Virtually 
anyone  assembling  or  accessing  text  based 
information  may  benefit  from  this  versatile 
and  productive  information  management 
tool. 


"•ixUeK  can  scan  volumes  of  data  for  you 
and  extract  what  is  most  relevant  to  your 
needs. 

"IXDex  is  designed  to  adapt  to  your  special 
vocabulary  through  a  simple  dictionary  of  key 
words  or  through  a  more  complex  but  effec- 
tive thesaurus  of  key  concepts  as  defined  by 
associated  word  groups. 

"•IXDex  can  assist  a  legal  practice  or  con- 
tractor's office  in  the  generation  of  legal 
documents  from  standard  clauses,  and  in 
searching  case  briefs  for  legal  precedents. 


UND 


ntrDiTcnisnjjsifEcimis 


miMDrK    Features: 

■  Variable  length  text  records  which  may 
span  files  and  disks  to  accommodate 
large  databases. 

■  Ranked  retrieval  in  order  of  closest  match 
to  your  inquiry. 

■  Interactive  inquiry  as  well  as  retrieval  from 
inquiry  archive  files. 

■  Fully  automatic  association  of  your  key 
words  to  all  or  a  selected  range  of  text 
records. 

■  Optional  indexing  on  all  text  in  a  record  or 
on  delimited  key  word  groups  and  the 
ability  to  suppress  key  group  output. 

■  Formatting  and  output  controls  with 
specifiable  destination. 


Introductory  prices: 

ml.\Dr*  system  —  one,  for  UCSD 
Pascal  1.5,  11.0,  or  PASCAL/M  with 
sample  databases  and  manual  ..$  175 

ml\'Ue\  manual  only $    20 

MINDexCHANGE  softsources  from      $     25 
prices  vary  with  database,  please  in- 
quire for  specifics. 

Contact:    mlWDe*  infosystems 

81  Centennial  Loop,  Suite  A 
Eugene,  Oregon  97401 
Ph:  (503)485-5827 

Shipped  on  8"  single-density 
soft  sectored  diskettes. 


UCSD  Pascal  is  a  registered  trademark  of  The  Regents  of  the  University  of  California.  PASCAL/M  is  a  trademark  of  Sorcim. 
272        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc  Circle  173  On  inquiry  Card. 


help  me  to  learn  more  about 
operational  amplifiers? 
Matsutoshi  Uchiyma 
Tokyo,  Japan 

/  am  glad  you  are  gaining 
experience  with  the  circuit. 
As  far  as  expanding  your 
mind  a  little,  I  suggest  the 
following  books: 

•  Operational  Amplifiers 
— Design  and  Applica- 
tions, Jerald  G  Graeme, 
Gene  E  Tobey,  and 
Lawrence  P  Huelsman, 
McGraw-Hill  Book  Com- 
pany, New  York  NY 
1971. 

•  Applications  of  Opera- 
tional Amplifiers — Third 
Generation  Techniques, 
Jerald  G  Graeme, 
McGraw-Hill  Book  Com- 
pany, New  York  NY 
1973. 

•  Handbook  of  Opera- 
tional Amplifier  Circuit 
Design,  David  F  Stout 
and  Milton  K,aufman, 
McGraw-Hill  Book  Com- 
pany, New  York  NY, 
1976. 

I  hope  these  help. 
Steve 


Beyond  "Cyclops" 

Dear  Steve, 

I  consider  your  series  of 
articles  the  best  collection  of 
homebrew-type  construction 
ideas  and  projects  available 
to  the  personal-computer  ex- 
perimenter. Your  article 
"Self -Refreshing  LED 
Graphics  Display"  (October 
1979  BYTE,  page  58)  has 
prompted  me  to  write  you. 

I'd  like  to  propose  a  pro- 
ject to  you.  I  understand 
that  a  construction  project 
called  "Cyclops"  appeared  in 
Popular  Electronics  that  ac- 
tually used  a  dynamic- 
memory  integrated  circuit  to 
act  as  a  "pseudo-image  sen- 
sor." Can  this  unique  idea 
be  extended  to  larger-area 
memory  devices7  The 
4  K-byte  circuit  would  make 
a  nice  64-by-64  element 
array. 
Jesse  Newton 

Thanks  for  the  pat  on  the 
back.  Sometimes  late  at 
night  I  need  it. 

I  remember  that  article 


SAMS  CIRCUIT  DESIGN  SOFTWARE. 

37  TECHNICAL  PROGRAMS  TO  LET  YOU  SPEND  LESS  TIME  ON  ROUTINE  CALCULATIONS,  STATISTICS, 
ANALYSES... MORE  TIME  ON  CREATIVE  DESIGN  AND  ENGINEERING. 


Sams— the  leader  in  technical  publishing— now  offers  the  most  ad- 
vanced engineering  software  systems  available.  These  tested, 
documented,  debugged  programs  can  be  used  as  stand-alone  pro- 
grams or  as  subroutines  for  more  complex  programs. 

■i  FASTER  INFORMATION— Solve  simultaneous  equations  with  real 
and  complex  coefficients  and  polynomial  roots.  Quickly  determine  the 
effects  of  an  infinitely  variable  set  of  design  parameters.  Plot  graphs 
for  various  functions  while  varying  scales  to  fit  data. 


EASY  TO  RUN— 7  cassettes  include  37  debugged  programs. 


■i  FULLY  DOCUMENTED— Easy-to-read  and  follow  instructions. 

■i  DESIGNED  FOR  POPULAR  MICROCOMPUTERS-Designed  for  use 
on  TRS-80*  systems  having  Level  II  BASIC  and  at  least  1 6K  RAM; 
many  of  the  routines  can  be  adapted  to  run  on  other  popular  com- 
puters. Programs  will  beavailable  soon  for  Apple  and  Ohio  Scientific. 
■■  PROGRAMMED,  TESTED,  AND  DEBUGGED  BY  HOWARD  M. 
BERLIN— Howard  M.  Berlin— an  author  in  the  Blacksburg  Series— is 
an  electrical  engineer  with  the  Chemical  Systems  Laboratory  at  Aber- 
deen Proving  Ground,  Maryland,  and  has  been  adjunct  instructor  in 
the  Department  of  Electrical  Engineering  at  the  University  of  Delaware. 


□ 

a 
a 

a 

a 

□ 


□ 


□ 


PLOTTING  GRAPHS  FOR  VIDEO  DISPLAY  (5  Programs) 

Histograms.  Cartesian  Plots.  Semi-Logarithmic  Plots.   Log-Log  Plots.   Polar  Plots.   #26006. 

$16.95. 

PLOTTING  GRAPHS  FOR  LINE  PRINTER  (3  Programs) 

Cartesian  Plots.  Semi-Logarithmic  Plots.  Polar  Plots.  #26000.  $16.95. 

ACTIVE  FILTER  DESIGN  (6  Programs) 

Low  and  High-Pass  (Bessel,  Butterworth,  1,  2,  and  3-dB  Chebyshev).  State-Variable  Filter. 
Bandpass  Filters  with  Q's  less  than  10  and  50.  Staggered-Tuned  Butterworth  Bandpass  Filters  (2, 
3,  or  5  stoles).  Notch  Filter.  #26001.  $21.95. 

DESCRIPTIVE  STATISTICS  &  REGRESSION  ANALYSIS  (3  Programs) 

Descriptive  Statistics  (mean,  standard  deviation,  variance,  kurtosis,  z-scores).  Curvilinear  Regres- 
sion (linear,  inverse,  polynomial,  exponential,  logarithmic).  Multivariate  Linear  Regression. 
#26002  $21.95. 

ELECTRONICS  I  (5  Programs) 

Zener  Diode  Voltage  Regulator  Design.  555  Timer  Design  (monostable  and  astable  circuits). 
Transistor  Bias  Parameters.  Single-Stage  Transistor  Amplifier  Design.  Heat  Sink  Selection  and 
Design.  #26003.  $16.95. 

ELECTRONICS  II  (7  Programs) 

4-Quadrant  Arctangent  Function.  Rectangular/Polar  Conversion  and  Complex  Number  Math- 
ematics. Minimum  and  Maximum  values  of  an  Array.  Roots  of  Polynomials  with  Real  Coefficients. 
Inverse  Laplace  Transforms  of  a  Transfer  Function,  Solution  of  Simultaneous  Equations  with  Real 
and  Complex  Coefficients.  #26004.  $16.95. 

ELECTRONICS  III  (8  programs) 

Average  and  RMS  values  of  a  Periodic  Function.  Fourier  Series  Expansion  of  a  Periodic  Function. 
Fourier  Transform  and  Spectrum  Plot.  Analysis  of  Damped  Oscillations.  Impedance  Matching 
Pads.  PI-TEE  (delta-wye)  Transforms.  #26005.  $16.95. 

CIRCUIT  DESIGN  PROGRAMMING  BOOK  FOR  THE  TRS-80. 

Circuit  Design  Programs  for  the  TRS-80  by  Howard  M.  Berlin  features  all  of  the  programs  listed 

above. ..and  more.  #21741.  $12.95. 


Indicate  quantities  in  the  boxes  and  return  entire  ad  witn  order. 
Mail  to:  Howard  W.  Sams  &  Co.,  Inc.  •  RO.  Box  7092 

4300  West  62nd  Street 

Indianapolis,  IN  46206.  (317)  298-5400. 


AMOUNT  OF  ORDER:  $_ 


(add  local  tax  where  applicable) 

D    PAYMENT  ENCLOSED 

D  CHECK        □  MONEY  ORDER 

D  VISA  D  MASTER  CHARGE  Interbank  No._ 

Expiration  Date: 

Account  No. : 

Name  (print): 

Signature: 

Address: . 

City_ 


AD048 


_Stale_ 


-Zip- 


SEND  INFORMATION  ABOUT  PRICE  AND  AVAILABILITY  FOR  SAMS  SOFTWARE 
FOR:   □  APPLE         D   OHIO  SCIENTIFIC. 

Sams  Software  Systems  are  available  from  major  Sams  Distributors  and  Com- 
puter Stores    Prices  good  in  U.S.A.  only   In  Canada,  contact  Lenbrook 
Industries,  Ltd.,  Scarborough,  Ontario,  M1H  1H5,  Canada    Offer  expires 
1/31/81 
•TRS-80  is  a  registered  trademark  of  Radio  Shack,  a  division  of  Tandy  Corp. 

Sams  Books 


Circle  174  on  Inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980        273 


well,  and  I  have  wanted  to 
try  exactly  what  you  sug- 
gest. I've  waited  because  I 
want  fairly  high  resolution. 
Perhaps  with  the  new  32  K 
and  64  K  bit  devices  I  will 
try  it.  Give  me  a  little  time. 

The  real  problem  I  have  is 
that  there  are  so  many  good 
article  ideas.  I  still  want  to 
put  a  computer  in  a  car,  do 
something  with  solar  heat, 
remote  control,  and 
robotics.  As  long  as  you 
haven't  been  dissatisfied 
with  everything  so  far,  I 
trust  that  I'll  find  something 
interesting  in  the  meantime. 
Steve 

Across-the-Sea  File 

Dear  Steve, 

I  read  with  great  interest 
your  article  "Computerize  a 
Home"  (January  1980  BYTE, 
page  28),  and  I  am  in- 
terested in  the  BSR  X-10 
system. 

I  contacted  the  Commer- 
cial Section  of  the  US  Em- 
bassy here  and  also  my 
employer's  purchasing  agent 
in  New  York,  but  neither 
could  find  me  the  address  of 


the  BSR  Company.  I  would 
appreciate  it  if  you  could  tell 
me  the  manufacturer's 
address. 

Thank  you. 
Z  Lapidot 
Rehovot,  Israel 

The  address  for  BSR  is: 
BSR  (USA)  Ltd,  Rt  303, 
Blauvelt  NY  10913, 
telephone:  (914)  358-6060. 
There  are  many  stocking 
distributors  for  its  products 
including:  The  Software  Ex- 
change, 6  South  St,  Milford 
NH  03055. 

BSR  is  an  English  com- 
pany, and  there  may  be 
outlets  closer  to  you  than 
those  listed  here. 
Steve 

Point-to- Point 

Dear  Steve, 

My  compliments  for  a  fine 
set  of  articles  over  the  years. 
Only  recently  have  I  had  the 
time  to  try  some  of  the  pro- 
jects you  write  about.  I  am 
planning  to  build  the  DVM 
(digital  voltmeter)  from  your 
article  in  the  January  1978 
BYTE  ("Add  More  Zing  to 


the  Cocktail,"  page  37). 

I  have  contacted  the 
printed-circuit  board 
manufacturer  that  you  men- 
tioned in  your  article,  but  it 
no  longer  has  boards 
available  for  that  particular 
project.  I  do  have  all  the 
components,  and  would  like 
to  avoid  the  tedium  of 
hand-wiring  the  project.  Do 
you  have  any  boards 
available  for  a  reasonable 
price? 

I  plan  to  use  this  circuit  as 
part  of  a  solar-energy- 
collector  measurement 
system  (among  other 
things).  I'm  also  trying  to 
work  out  a  method  to 
manage  energy  consumption 
around  the  house. 
Frank  J  Pakulski 

A  lot  of  people  have  built 
and  are  using  the  DVM  in- 
terface you  mention.  (Please 
note  a  typographical  error  in 
table  1  of  that  article.  On 
ICl  pin  24  is  +5  V,  pin  13 
is  ground,  and  pin  12  is  —5 
V.)  I'm  sorry  that  the  com- 
pany that  once  sold  the 
components  no  longer  sup- 
plies them.  I  have  noticed 


ARTIFICIAL 
INTELLIGENCE 


C/PM® 


For  Your 


or 


S-100  SYSTEM 


"SHIVA™"  is  a  highly-sophisticated  VIRTUAL-PERSONALITY™  multi-level  multi- 
user multi-tasking  executive  (operating  system)  for  S-100  based  systems.  It  provides 
your  microcomputer  system  immediately  with  power  comparable  to  that  of  large- 
frame  maxi-computers  for  a  remarkably  small  price,  yet  SHIVA™  requires 
surprisingly  little  R.A.M.  area,  and  is  conversational!!!  SHIVA's™  English-like 
input/output  is  interactive,  dynamic,  and  may  be  reconfigured  or  expanded  by  the 
user.  And  SHIVA™  gives  you  the  freedom  to  expand  indefinitely . . .  with  tremendous 
hardware  and  software  choice:  SHIVA™  supports  hard  disks  and  floppies . . .  R.A.M. 
addressing  beyond  64  kilobytes  .  .  .  time-sharing  .  .  .  multi-level  user-reconfigurable 
password  protection  . . .  and  features  shell-commands  similar  to  UNIX®  in  structure!! 
SHIVA™  is  compatible  with  C/PM®  and  C/DOS®  for  easy  implementation  and  near 
universal  software  support!!!  SHIVA™  is  available  for  8080, 8085,  MC6800, 6502,  and 
Z80®-based  systems. 

Versions  are  in  development  for  ZILOG  Z8000®  16-BIT,  INTEL  8086®  and  INTEL 
iApx-432®  32-BIT  PROCESSORS  .  .  . 

And  Omega  Research™  is  dedicated  to  non-obsolescence  and  system  superiority  in 
software  choice  ....  SHIVA™  supports  BASIC,  FORTRAN,  COBOL,  a  MACRO- 
ASSEMBLER, DATA  BASE  MANAGEMENT,  ALGOL-60,  PASCAL ....  interfaces 
in  development  for  UNIX®,  C,  LISP,  PL/I,  APL,  and  RT-11®. 

And  needless  to  say,  SHIVA™  is  very  fast 

SHIVA™ $350  -  Available  on  8"  I.B.M.  Soft-Sectored  Disks  and  5"  C/DOS® 

(Cromemco)  Diskettes.  Includes  complete  Documentation.  .  . 

M.C.  &  Visa  orders  accepted 

"SHIVA*" ,"  "VIRTUALPERSONALITY*" ,"  and  "OMEGA  RESEARCH*"  "  are  trademarks  of  OMEGA  RESEARCH. 
"RT-1 1  ■ "  is  a  trademark  of  DIGITAL  EQUIPMENT  CORPORATION. 
"UNIX" "  is  a  trademark  of  BELL  LABORATORIES 
"CP/M-"  is  a  trademark  of  DIGITAL  RESEARCH  OF  CALIFORNIA 
"C/DOS""  is  a  trademark  of  CROMEMCO.  Inc. 
"Z-80"  "  and  "Z-8000"  are  trademarks  of  ZILOG,  Inc. 
"INTEL""  is  a  trademark  of  INTEL  CORPORATION 

No  shipments  prior  to  return  of  signed  software 
license  agreement.  For  detailed  information  on 
"SHIVA    ,"  send  $1.00  postage  and  handling  to 


CALIFORNIA  RESIDENTS  ADD  6%  SALES  TAX 


P.O.  Box  479 

Linden,  Ca.  95236 

(209)  334-6666 

9am  to  5pm  Mon.-Fri. 


that  companies  such  as 
Jameco  sell  the  MC14433 
DVM  chip,  but  not  the 
printed-circuit  board. 

Recently,  I  have  been  ar- 
ranging for  boards  and  kits 
on  some  of  my  articles.  This 
time  the  sources  are  more 
closely  regulated  and  the 
boards  and  parts  will  be 
available  far  into  the  future. 
Steve 


In-Depth  Information 
Center 

Dear  Steve, 

I  would  like  you  to 
recommend  some  texts  that 
would  introduce  me  to  com- 
puter hardware,  from  basic 
switching  theory  through 
the  actual  architecture  of  a 
computer.  I'm  tired  of 
superficial  prose  intended 
for  the  general  consumer.  I 
need  some  more  in-depth  in- 
formation that  is  found  only 
in  engineering  texts.  You 
know,  something  that  pre- 
sents the  computer  from  the 
electronics  engipeer's  point 
of  view  in  a  well-structured 
manner.  What  do  you  sug- 
gest? As  a  postscript, I  would 
also  like  to  learn  about 
Pascal. 
Daniel  R  Shook 

You  ask  an  extremely  dif- 
ficult question.  I  have  talked 
to  other  computer  en- 
thusiasts and  it  seems  that 
(given  the  wide  variety  of 
texts  and  computer  books 
being  published)  no  two  can 
agree  on  what  is  best.  I  have 
felt  that  there  is  a  void  in 
this  area,  and,  as  a  matter 
of  fact,  I  have  just  written  a 
book  on  building  a  Z80 
computer  system  from 
scratch.  It's  above  the  in- 
troductory level,  but  not 
just  for  engineers — similar  to 
my  articles.  It  should  be 
published  in  early  1981. 

In  the  meantime,  I  suggest 
you  join  the  McGraw-Hill 
Electronic  &  Control 
Engineers  book  club.  Many 
of  its  monthly  selections  are 
introductory  texts  written 
for  engineers. 

A  good  book  on  Pascal  is 
Pascal  User  Manual  and 
Report — Second  Edition,  by 
Jensen  and  Wirth  from 
Springer-  Verlag. 
Steve  ■ 


274        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  175  on  inquiry  card. 


WE  CAN  TAKE  YOU  FROM 

WATERLOO  TO  THE  SUPER  BOWL. 

(By  way  of  the  North  Atlantic) 

In  the  few  short  months  since  we  introduced  Computer  Bismarck"",  we've  transported  over  2500  adventurous  minds  to  the  North  Atlantic  - 
there  to  recreate  the  historic  battle  between  the  awesome  German  warship  and  the  British  Home  Fleet  The  startling  realism  and  excitement  of 
that  experience  have  prompted  many  well-seasoned  travelers  to  proclaim  it  "...unique  among  computer  games  and  board  games  alike.*"  One 
enthusiast  had  this  to  say:  "The  wealth  of  detail.. .is  hardly  short  of  fantastic.  Only  real  war  rooms.. .in  the  Pentagon  have  ever  before  been  able  to 
simulate  a  battle  in  this  manner.**"  Now  we  offer  two  more  strategy  games  to  embark  you  on  new  flights  of  the  imagination. 


COMPUTERNAPOLEONICS™ 

takes  you  to  the  battlefields  of  Waterloo  on  the 
fateful  day  of  June  18,  1815.  Here,  the  greatest 
battle  ever  fought  is  about  to  begin,  awaiting 
only  your  commands  to  set  the  amassed  armies 
in  motion. 

You  and  your  friend  choose  your  role  — 
either  as  the  military  genius,  Napoleon,  or  as  the 
Duke  of  Wellington,  the  iron-willed  leader  of 
the  Anglo-Allied  forces.  The  video  screen 
displays  the  map  of  the  Belgian  countryside  with 
the  artillery,  infantry,  and  cavalry  units  under 
your  respective  commands. 

AS  NAPOLEON,  you  must  utilize  your 
superior  combat  strength  and  numbers  to  deal 
Wellington  a  quick  and  decisive  defeat  before 
his  Prussian  ally  can  supply  reinforcements. 
Speed  is  of  the  essence.  But  any  tactical  blunders 
in  military  deployment  will  result  in  a  repeat  of 
history  -  Napoleon's  ignominious  defeat 

AS  THE  DUKE  OF  WELLINGTON, 

you  must  not  only  survive  the  onslaught  of  the 
French  artillery,  cuirassiers,  and  the  dreaded 
Imperial  Guard,  you  must  also  inflict  sufficient 
damage  to  Napoleon's  forces  to  prevent  his 
relentless  northward  march  of  conquest 

THE  COMPUTER,  in  our  solitaire  scenario, 
plays  Wellington  while  you  play  Napoleon. 
Two  levels  of  play  are  provided  by  making  the 
entry  of  Prussian  reinforcements  variable.  This 
makes  the  need  for  French  military  decisiveness 
and  devastating  execution  even  more  critical. 

FOR  THE  NOVICE  AND  THE  ADVANCED. 

Computer  Napoleonics  has  all  the  advantages  of  your 
basic,  traditional  wargame  —meticulous  detail,  realism, 
and  payability.  Plus  one.  Because  the  computer  keeps 
track  of  all  the  rules,  neither  player  can  make  an  illegal 
move.  This  makes  learning  it  a  cinch  (mastery  is  quite 
another  matter),  and  it  will  convert  the  novice  wargamer 
into  a  fanatic  in  no  time. 

The  advanced  wargamer  will  find  the  computer  a  worthy 
opponent  indeed,  and  the  two  levels  of  play  in  the  solitaire  version  will 
challenge  the  most  experienced  of  strategists. 


COMPUTERQUARTERBACK71 

propels  you  onto  the  playing  field  of  the  Super 
Bowl.  From  its  multiple  offensive  and  defensive 
plays  and  its  real-time  playing  conditions 
to  the  animated  video  display  of  the  grid- 
iron and  the  halftime  statistics,  no  strategy 
football  game  has  ever  been  more  complete 
in  detail  or  as  exciting  in  realism.  Three  ver- 
sions are  offered:  Semi- Pro,  Pro,  and  Computer- 
as- Opponent 

SEMI- PRO  presents  you  with  a  choice  of  18 
offenses  and  14  defenses.  Here,  you  will  begin  to 
learn  the  intricacies  of  football;  the  thrill  of  the 
perfectly  executed  two-minute  drill;  the  agony 
of  the  fumble,  interception,  and  penalty.  On 
offense,  you  will  learn  to  read  the  defense  and 
call  audibles  as  needed. 

After  you  have  mastered  the  Semi-Pro 
version,  it's  time  to  move  on  to  the  Big 
Time... the  Pro  version! 

THE  PRO  VERSION  not  only  gives  you 
every  offense  (36)  and  defense  (24  plus  double- 
teaming  capabilities  and  special  alignments)  you 
could  ever  want,  it  also  gives  you  the  team  you 
want!  With  2.7  million  computet  dollars,  you 
get  to  draft  a  team  to  your  style  and  specifications. 
Spend  more  on  your  quarterback  and  receivers 
and  your  passing  game  may  very  well  be 
unstoppable... but  your  running  game  may  suffer 
for  lack  of  funds. 

THE  COMPUTER  eliminates  all  the  organi- 
zational drudgery  of  conventional  board  games. 
It  plays  scorekeeper,  referee,  umpire,  and  lines- 
man. As  timekeeper,  it  makes  you  play  in  real- 
time. Take  longer  than  30  seconds  to  hike  the 
ball  and  five  yards  will  be  marched  off  against 
you  for  delay-of-game. 

"THE  ROBOTS"  is  the  team  most  ably 
coached  by  your  friendly  computer.  It's  ready  to  play  any  time  you  are.  It 
even  "learns"  your  tendencies  and  patterns  through  time,  and  it  will 
make  the  necessary  tactical  adjustments.  It  plays  so  well  you  must  be  in 
top  form  to  stand  a  chance  against  it 


All  you  need  to  start  on  these  mind  journeys  is  an  Apple  II  with  Applesoft  ROM  card,  48K  memory,  and  a  mini-floppy  disc  drive.  For  $59.95, 
Computer  Napoleonics  comes  with  the  game  program  mini-disc,  two  mapboard  cards,  a  rule  book,  and  two  player-aid  charts.  Computer 
Quarterback,  for  $39.95,  gives  you  the  game  disc,  a  rule  book,  and  four  play  diagram  charts. 


Credit  card  holders,  call  800-648-5600  (toll  free)  and  charge 
your  order  to  your  VISA  or  MASTERCHARGE  In  Nevada,  call  800- 
992-5710.  For  Computer  Quarterback,  ask  for  Operator  178;  for 
Computer  Napoleonics,  Operator  1 79. 

While  you're  at  it  you  can  also  get  our  other  games: 
•    Computer  Bismarck  for  your  Apple:  $59.95  (Operator  180) 
Computer  Bismarck,  TRS-80  48  K  Disc:  $59.95; 
32K  Cassette:  $49.95 


Computer  Ambush  (a  tactical  simulation  of  man-to-man  combat  in 
World  War  II)  for  your  Apple:  $59.95  (Operator  181) 
To  order  by  mail,  send  your  check  to  Strategic  Simulations  Inc., 
Dept  B,  450  San  Antonio  Road,  Suite  62,  Palo  Alto,  CA  94306.  Our 
14-day  money  back  guarantee  assures  your  satisfaction. 


STRATEGIC  SIMULATIONS  INC. 


'Creative  Computing,  Aug.  1980. 
"Popular  Mechanics,  Aug.  1980. 


Apple  is  a  registered  trademark  of  Apple  Computer  Inc. 
TRS-80  is  a  registered  trademark  of  Tandy  Corporation. 


Circle  176  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


275 


Text  continued  from  page  82: 

subroutine  name,  length,  and  the 
subroutine  instructions.  Thus,  our 
load-subroutine  primitive  can  be 
represented  as: 


LSUB  N,L,Do..D„., 


where: 


N  =  subroutine  name  or  number 

L  =  subroutine  length 

D,  =  subroutine  instructions 

For  example,  the  primitive: 


LSUB  CLIP,5,D„..D4 

loads  a  subroutine  named  CLIP  with 
the  given  five  instructions. 

In  order  to  maintain  a  sense  of 
symmetry  with  these  primitives,  we 
need  to  include  a  primitive  to  read 
back  a  given  subroutine.  Although 
this  feature  does  not  affect  the 
displayed  image,  it  does  aid  the  host 
in  debugging  and  keeping  track  of  the 
current  status  of  the  display.  Thus, 
we  require  a  read-subroutine 
primitive,  which  can  be  represented 
as: 


Call  on  John  D.  Owens  for  all  Your  Computer  Needs 


IOHN  STARTED  PROGRAMMING  IN  1959  AND  HAS  WORKED  ON 

THE  IBM  704,  UNIVAC  I,  NCR  304,  CDC  6600,  IBM  360/370 

AND  MANY  OTHERS.  WHEN  YOU  CALL  ON  US,  JOHN's  EXTENSIVE 

EXPERIENCE  BECOMES  AVAILABLE  TO  YOU. 


IMS  5000  and  8000  Systems 

The  new  rising  stars!  Beautifully  designed  and  constructed  with  the  Industrial  Micro 
System  reputation  for  fine  quality.  These  systems  feature  a  Z80  CPU,  S-100  bus;  double 
density  drives  (either  single  or  double  sided)  CP/M®.  5000  series  uses  mini  floppies, 
8000  uses  maxi  floppies.  Hard  disk  and  MP/M  now  available. 

Model  5-00125  with  two  double  density  drives,  32K  Static  RAM  $2,765 

Model  8-00125  as  above  but  with  8"  drives $4,185 


AMPEX  DFR-900  HARD  DISK  DRIVES 

Winchester  media;  16MB  removable;  32,  64  or  96  MB  fixed.  These  drives  are  totally  in- 
tegrated with  the  IMS  hardware  and  CP/M.  We  can  furnish  a  package  consisting  of  an 
IMS  system,  your  choice  of  CRT  or  printer,  optional  hard  disk  and  applications 
software. 


DRIVES 

Per  Sci  299B  Now  Available!!!  .  .  .   $2,200 

Cabinet  and  power  supply $300 

Per  Sci  277.   $1,210    Shugart $525 

MPI  B51  .  .  .  .   $265     B52 $365 

Innotronics  and  QUME  also  available 

HAZELTINE  1500 $885 

1510 $980     1520 $1,210 

1420  (two  year  warranty) $775 

DEC  LA  35/36  Upgrade $750 

Increases  baud  rate  to  1200.  Microproces- 
sor controlled.  Many  features  include 
TOF,  tabs  and  margin  control. 


We  have  no  reader  inquiry  number. 

Call  on  us  for  product  sheets. 

Dealer  inquiry  invited. 

Prices  subject  to  change  without  notice. 

CODs  accepted  at  no  extra  charge. 


TELEVIDEO  SMART  CRTs 

912  B  and  C  

920  B  and  C  


$780 
$850 


IMS  MEMORY  16  K  static  . 

32  K  static  . 

64  K  Dynamic  with  parity 


$285 
$585 
$950 


TEI  MAINFRAMES,  S-100 

12  slot 

22  slot 


$500 
$670 


TARBELL 

Double  density  controller . 

Cables 


$420 
.    $40 


CALIF.  COMPUTER  SYSTEMS 
CONTROLLER  Single  or  double  density; 
5'/«  or  8"drives.  ROM  Addressable.  Price 
includes  CP/M®  2.2 $395 


WE  EXPORT: 


Overseas  Callers:         TWX  710  588  2844 
Phone  212  448-6298    or  Cable:  OWENSASSOC 


We  Are  Known  for  Our  Prompt  and  Courteous  Service! 


JOHN  D.  OWENS 

83      Associates,  Inc.      21; 

113  12  Schubert  Street 

Staten  Island,  New  York  10305 


212  448-6283 
212  448-2913 


212  448-6298 


RSUBN 
where: 

N  =  subroutine  name  or  number 
For  example,  the  primitive: 

RSUB  CLIP 

reads  the  instructions  of  the 
subroutine  CLIP  and  presents  the 
data  to  the  host. 

We  have  also  assumed  the  existence 
of  a  programmable  symbol  genera- 
tor. In  order  to  support  this  feature, 
there  is  the  need  for  some  method  of 
loading  the  generator.  We  either  need 
to  load  an  entirely  new  font  definition 
in  the  symbol  generator  or  alter  only 
certain  symbols:  thus  we  must  pro- 
vide the  option  of  loading  the  entire 
set  or  only  one  element.  We  can 
define  each  symbol  by  providing  data 
which  represents  either  the  vectors 
that  make  up  the  symbol  or  by  defin- 
ing a  bit  pattern  that  forms  the  image 
of  the  symbol.  In  either  case,  our 
load-symbol  primitive  can  be 
represented  as: 


LSYMM,(A,)D0..D„ 


where: 


for 


M    =    mode   (All  symbols   or  a 
Single  symbol) 

A  =  symbol  code  (optional: 
single  symbol  only) 
D,  =  data  mask  defining  the  sym- 
bol 

For  example,  the  primitive: 

LSYMS,80,D0.. 

loads  the  symbol  numbered  80  with 
the  given  data  mask. 

Symmetrically,  we  must  include  a 
primitive  to  read  back  the  data 
describing  a  single  or  all  symbols. 
This  feature  is  necessary  to  be  able  to 
produce  hard  copies  of  the  displayed 
image.  The  host  must  know,  if  an  im- 
age is  to  be  plotted,  how  the  current 
font  is  defined.  We  use  the  same 
justification  as  above  to  support  the 
option  of  reading  all  or  only  selected 
symbols.  Mnemonically,  our  read- 
symbol  primitive  can  be  represented 
as: 


276        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


RSYM  M(,A) 


where: 


our    read-pixel    primitive    can    be 
represented  as: 


(255.  255) 


M    =    mode   (All  symbols  or  a 
Single  symbol) 

A  =  symbol  code  (optional:  for 
single  symbol  only) 

For  example,  the  primitive: 

RSYM  A 

reads  back  the  entire  font  definition 
to  the  host. 

In  order  to  fully  support  a  require- 
ment for  hard  copy,  two  final 
primitives  have  to  be  provided.  First, 
since  we  have  assumed  the  existence 
of  a  color-look-up  table,  we  must 
have  some  manner  of  reading  back 
the  values  of  the  table  to  the  host. 
Otherwise,  the  host  would  have  to 
keep  track  of  the  current  color  defini- 
tions. This  primitive  thus  reduces  the 
host's  bookkeeping  and  allows  infor- 
mation on  the  actual  displayed  colors 
to  be  read  back.  For  the  same  reasons 
as  we  described  for  the  load-color- 
memory  primitive,  we  must  support 
the  same  options  of  reading  back 
either  the  entire  table,  one  entire 
parameter,  or  all  parameters  for  one 
color  code.  Mnemonically,  we  can 
represent  our  read-color-memory 
primitive  as: 


RCRAM  R,M(,A) 


where: 


R  =  reference  (intensity,  Hue,  or 

Saturation  color  memory,  or  All) 

M  =  mode  (Single  address  or  All 

addresses) 

A  =  address  (optional:  for  single 

address  only) 

For  example,  the  primitive: 

RCRAM  I, A 

reads  back  the  contents  of  the  entire 
intensity  color  memory. 

Finally,  we  must  be  able  to  read 
back  values  of  the  pixel  data  itself. 
This  feature  is  necessary  not  only  for 
the  support  of  hard  copy,  but  allows 
the  host  to  interrogate  the  display  to 
read  back  the  values  of  pixels  at 
specified  points  in  the  image.  We  use 
the  same  justification  as  for  the  load- 
pixel  primitive  to  support  the  various 
options  of  reference  (full-frame, 
viewport,    or   X,Y).    Mnemonically, 


RPIXR 


where: 


R     =     reference     (Full-frame, 
Viewport,  or  X,  Y) 

For  example,  the  primitive: 

RPIXF 


(0,0) 


reads  back  the  contents  of  the  entire      Figure  5:  A  sample  of  the  images  produced 
display-frame  buffer.  by  Micrograph  using  the  primitives  of 

This  completes  our  set  of  graphics     listing  1. 


Call  on  John  D.  Owens  for  all  Your  Computer  Needs 


TELETYPE  Model  43  Inventory  Sale/!!! 

Model  4320  AAK  and  AAL $1,085 

Model  4330  punch/ reader.  10  or  30  CPS. 

8  level,  1"  tape $2,595 

Limited  supply  of  Model  45  available. 

IBM  3101  CRT  Model  10 $1,195 

Model  20 $1,395 

Selectric-like,  detached  keyboard.  9x16  dot  matrix. 
Maintenance  contract  from  IBM  only  $70  per  year. 

ITHACA  INTERSYSTEMS 

Full  S-100  IEEE  Compatibility!  Full  24  address  bits.  DMA 
disk  controller.  SYSTEM  2A  includes  20  slot  mainframe 
with  front  panel,  64K  Dynamic  RAM.  Z80  CPU,  4  MHZ, 
extended  addressing  capability.  4  parallel,  2  serial  I/O, 
floppy  controller.  Our  discounted  price $3,236 

MARINCHIP  SYSTEMS  M9900 

Elegant  16  bit  CPU,  S-100  compatible  Multi  user,  multi  pro- 
cessor operating  system.  Extended  precision  commercial 
BASIC,  FORTH,  META,  PASCAL,  Word  Processor  and 
Text  Editor.  Fast  and  powerful! 

Complete  kit  and  software  package $550 

Assembled $700 

We  configure  complete  systems  with  floppy  or  hard  disk. 

MARINCHIP  USERS:  QBASIC  for  the  9900 $220 

16  bit ,  32K  words,  64K  BYTES  memory  $1,050 

MICROANGELO  $2,280 

High  resolution  graphics  system.  Microangelo  features  15" 
22MHZ,  green  phospher  screen,  72  key  keyboard;  includes 
complete  cabling  and  software.  From  SCION. 

GRAPHICS  SOFTWARE  On  line,  real  time,  for  the 
M9900  to  drive  the  Microangelo.  For  use  in  design  of  PC 
board  masks,  IC  masks  and  other  applications  usually  re- 
quiring a  $200,000  system. 

COMPUTER  TO  COMPUTER  COMMUNICATIONS 

Enables  communications  from  a  micro  to  a  terminal  or  to 
another  micro,  mini  or  maxi  computer.  Modes  of  opera- 
tion: TERMINAL  (your  system  acts  like  an  intelligent  ter- 
minal), FILE-TO-FILE,  LOCAL  (Disk  commands), 
Full/Half  Duplex  on  8"  or  5'  disks.COM  to  COM  mode 
does  full  CRC 16  error  check  and  retransmits  block  on  error. 
Object  Code $75         Source  Code $150 


INDUSTRIAL 

MICRO 

SYSTEMS 

TELETYPE 

HAZELTINE 

IBM 

TELEVIDEO 

TEI 

TARBELL 

CORVUS 

PER  SCI 

NEC 

ITHACA 

INTERSYSTEMS 

MARINCHIP 

DATA  SOUTH 

QUME 
CENTRONICS 

TEXAS 

INSTRUMENTS 

ATARI 

DEC 

CALIFORNIA 

COMPUTER 

SYSTEMS 

KONAN 

EDGE 

TECHNOLOGY 

INNOTRONICS 

XEROX 

DIABLO 

INTEGRAL 

DATA  SYSTEMS 

CROMEMCO 

SOROC 
MICROPRO 

TELETEK 

NOVATION 

AMPEX 

CDC 

NORTH  STAR 

COMMODORE 

SCION 

MPI 

POWER  ONE 

MEASUREMENT 

SYSTEMS 
AND  CONTROL 


WE  OFFER  A  FULL  RANGE  OF  EXPERT  CONSULTING 

SERVICES  COVERING  ALL  AREAS 

OF  COMPUTER  APPLICATIONS  AND  SYSTEMS. 


JOHN  D.  OWENS 

Associates,  Inc. 


SEE  OUR  AD  ON  FACING  PAGE 


November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc       277 


Circle  177  on  inquiry  card. 


POCKETS 


<p>xv 


Here's  $395  worth  of  convenience  for  anyone 
working  with  digital  systems.  Carry  it 
anywhere  in  a  pocket,  valise  or  toolkit  to  enter 
-     and  retrieve  data,  run  diagnostics,  change 
constants,  test  aata  links,  etc. 


Look  at  its  facilities: 
•  Transmits  128 

ASCII  codes 
•Can  display  last  30 
characters  received 
•  Displays  full 
64-character  ASCII 
set  on  dearie- 
segment  LEDs 
•25-line  RS232/C 

compatible  interface 
•Single  5V  supply 
required  at  400mA 
typical 
•  110  or  300  baud 
transmission  selectable 
•Parity  codes,  stop  bits 
'  settable  to  your  standard 
g|g®.      •Obeys  bell,  cursor  and 

data  format  control  codes 

Phone  or  write  us  for  more  details  now: 

GR  ELECTRONICS, 

^  1640  Fifth  Street, 

Santa  Monica,  CA  90401 . 

Telephone:  (213)  395-4774. 

Telex:  65-2337  (BT  Smedley  SNM). 


!T 


DATADISK 
SYSTEMS 


CP/M*   FOR  NORTH  STAR  SYSTEMS 

CP/M  2.2  -  The  industry  standard  'software  bus"  specially  tailored  for  the  North  Star  disk  systems  and  8080,  8085.  Z80  microcomputers 
Fully  supports  all  standard  North  Star  I/O  and  single,  double  or  quad  capacity  disk  drives.  A  minimum  of  24K  of  continuous  ram  memory  starling 
at  location  zero  is  required  The  foliowina  Digital  Research  (dr|  and  Datadisk  Systems  (dd)  programs  are  included  on  your  CP/M  diskette: 
tS150/SZ5 


ED  (dr)  —  Text  Editor  Used  to  wrile  pro- 
grams in  most  languages  and  modify  any 
ASCII  disk  file  Delete,  substitute,  search  on 
char/slrlng/line  number/ relative  position, 
block  move,  global  change,  macro  com- 
mands ED  Is  your  window  to  CP/M  com- 
patible soltware. 

ASM  (dr)  -  8080  Assembler.  Uses  stan- 
dard 8080  mnemonics  and  pseudo-ops 
Conditional  assembly,  HEX  lile  generation, 
assemble  listings,  multi-disk  file  transfer. 

PIP  (dr)  -  Peripheral  Interchange  Program. 
File  transfer  between  disk  and  logical 
devices  Software  file  routing,  concatin- 
ation,  pagination,  text  extraction,  case 
numbering  and  much  more. 


SUBMIT  (dr)  -  8atch  ED.  PIP.  DDT,  ASM 
and  associated  parameters  into  user  defined 
processes 


DDT  (dr)  -  Dynamic  Debugging  Tool  8080 
assembly  language  run-time  monitor  Real 
time  Deiween  break  points,  Iracing,  lull  in- 
ternal regrster  display  and  alteration  at  any 
slep,  single  slep,  disassembly,  assembly. 
the  list  goes  on  and  on  If  you  write  device 
conlrollers,  DDT  is  an  invaluable  tool 

STAT  (dr)  -  Status  /alteration  ol  logical-to- 
physical  devices,  disk  drive  parameters, 
storage  space,  file  size. 

LOAD  (dr}  -  Convert  8080  'HEX'  hies  (out- 
put of  ASM}  into  machine  executable  code 
Programs  are  then  executed  by  typing 
the  program  name 


w  system  disketie. 


OSTAT  (dd)  -  Multi-purpose  Disk  Status 
routine  Logically  assign  disk  drives  to 
operale  with  any  combination  ol  single  den- 
sity, double  density,  single  side,  double 
side,  as  well  as  standard  or  sequential  disk 
sectoring  An  optional  seleciion  allows  fast 
stepping  and  optimal  sectoring  lo  signifi- 
cantly    reduce     disk -intensive     program 

An  additional  feature  permits  system  re- 
configuralion  to  quad  capacity  This  allows 
douole  density  owners  to  upgrade  wilh  no 
additional  software  expense. 


XSUB  (dr)  -  Extends  the  power  ol  SUBMIT 
to  include  automatic  line  input  to  programs 

FORMAT  (dd)  -  Prepare  diskette  tor  use 
with  CP/M  2.2. 


FOLLOWING  SOFTWARE  AVAILABLE  IN 


DESPOOL  -  Simullaneous  lile  print  and  user  operatic 
TEX  —  Text  formatter  Quality  hard  copy  ...     ... 


$45/15 
S70/I15 

S85/J15 

ZSID  -  Same  as  SID  lor  the  Z80  instruction  set  I95/J15 

COMPILER  SYSTEMS  CBASIC-2  rel  2  06 

Compiler  extended  disk  BASIC    Self  documenting,   source  code 

protection,  line  numbers  not  required S95/J15 

California  residents  add  B%  sales  lax. 

Specify  single,  double  or  quad  capacity 

Additional  formats  available  soon. 

Structured  Systems  Group  programs  require  CP/M  and  CBASIC-2. 

'CP/M  is  a  registered  trademark  ol  Digital  Research. 

tSo/fware  and  documentation  /documentation  only . 

CMHMBUS  to-  Non-slanoarc  Syslims  Ema 

Shipping   S2  00  COO.  S2.00 


MOST  5.25  AND  S  INCH  FORMATS 

MT  microSYSTEMS  PASCAL/MT.  -  requires  32K  minimum  memory 
Symbolic  debugger,  BCD  or  floating  point  Optimized  lor  the  CP/M 
environment  Produces  compact  machine  code  I250/J25 

STflUCTUREO  SYSTEMS  requites  CBASlC-2} 

GENERA.    LEDGER  S895/S25 

INVENTORY  S79S/S25 

ACCOUNTS  oavABLE  S695/S25 

ACCOUNTS  RECEIVABLE  .                                            S695/I25 

PAYRDLI  $695/125 

ANALVS-  I225/J20 

LETTER.GH1  S175/S20 

QSORT  195/110 

NAD  S75/S10 

5HUGAP.T  HARD  DISK  6  mo.  warranty,  direct  connection  to  North  Star 

13.2  MBYTE $4696 

26.4  MBYTE M995 

LINE  PRINTER  -  multi-font,  multi- language,  up  to  132  col,  self 
test,  boldface,  125  cps,  much  more $796 

VEHBATIM  mini-disks  (lots  of  10) (24.95 


OATADISK  SYSTEMS,   P.O.   BOX  195,   POWAY,   CA  92064,  (714)  578-3831 


primitives  for  a  color  raster-scan 
display.  The  graphics  primitives  are 
summarized  in  table  2.  Note  that  this 
list  does  not  include  primitive  instruc- 
tions for  operations  such  as  circle  or 
arc  generation.  Such  features  can  be 
generated  by  existing  primitives  (us- 
ing the  vector-drawing  primitive). 
Furthermore,  circle  and  arc  primitives 
are  difficult  to  generalize  and  cannot 
easily  support  any  more  complex 
curves:  their  utility  is  therefore  very 
limited  for  the  cost  of  their  implemen- 
tation in  terms  of  support  hardware 
and  display-processor  software.  Fur- 
thermore, features  such  as  transfor- 
mations are  not  included  at  this  level 
since  they  presuppose  a  definite  im- 
age structure  that  cannot  be  known 
by    the    display    processor.    Other 

Text  continued  on  page  292 


Listing  1:  This  arrangement  of  primitives 
developed  for  Micrograph  was  used  to 
produce  the  images  in  figure  5. 

MOV  20,10  (t) 

VEC  SHORT  ,REL,WHITE,20,30 

MOV  5,30  (T) 

VEC  SHORT  ,REL,WHITE,25,30 

MOV  30,10  (E) 

VEC  SHORT  ,REL,WHITE,30,20 

MOV  30,10  (E) 

VEC  SHORT , REL,  WHITE,40, 10 

MOV  30,15  (E) 

VEC  SHORT , REL,  WHITE,40, 15 

MOV  30,20  (E) 

VEC  SHORT, REL,  WHITE,40,20 

MOV  50,10  (X) 

VEC  SHORT, REL,  WHIT  E,60,20 

MOV  50,20  (X) 

VEC  SHORT  ,REL,  WHIT  E,60, 10 

MOV  70,10  (T) 

VEC  SHORT, REL,  WHITE,70, 15 

MOV  65,15  (T) 

VEC  SHORT, REL,  WHITE,75,15 

LREG  VPORT  ,30,45,40,60         (rectangle 

around  circle) 

LPIX  VPORT  ,CYAN0.  .CYAN  m 

LREG  VPORT,  120,60,200,120  (part  of 

LPIX       VPORT, BLUE 

LREG     VPORT,  170, 170,250,230  (part  of 

cube) 
LPIX       VPORT, RED 
MOV      120,60 
VEC        SHORT ,REL,GREEN,  170, 170  (part 

of  cube) 
MOV  200,120 
VEC        SHORT, REL,GREEN, 250,230  (part 

of  cube) 
MOV      200,60 
VEC       SHORT, REL,GREEN, 250,230  (part 

of  cube) 
MOV  120,120 
VEC       SHORT  ,REL,GREEN ,  170,250  (part 

of  cube) 
MOV      20,200 
SYM       4,a,/3,E,X  (from  user-defined 

font) 

5  types  of  primitives,  37  instructions,  300 
parameters 


278        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  lnc 


Circle  178  on  inquiry  card. 


;cQMPJTRQUicsi  EVERYTHING 


50  N.  PASCACK  ROAD 
SPRING  VALLEY,  NEW  YORK  10977 


*  APPLE  IS  A  TRADEMARK  OF  THE  APPLE  CORP. 


TO 


FROM  COMPUMAX  BUSINESS  SYSTEMS 

The  COMPUMAX  business  applications  programs  are  written  with  the  novice 
computer  user  in  mind.  They  are  easy  to  use,  yet  powerful  in  their  capabilities.  Further, 
COMPUMAX  supplies  the  BASIC  source  code.  Thus  the  programs  are  easy  to  modify. 

MICROLEDGER 

This  General  Ledger  system  performs  the  essential  functions  of  dual  entry  bookkeeping 
and  matches  revenues  and  expenses: 
MICROLEDGER  includes  the  following  programs.: 

LEDGER  1  -  builds  and  maintains  the  CHART  OF  ACCOUNTS  file.  This  file  contains 
both  current  and  accumulated  totals  for  each  account. 

LEDGER  2  -  builds  and  updates  the  JOURNAL  TRANSACTION  file. 

LEDGER  3  -  lists  both  the  the  JOURNAL  file  and  the  CHART  OF  ACCOUNTS. 

LEDGER  4  -  computes  the  TRIAL  BALANCE  and  executes  POSTING  of  journal  trans- 
actions into  the  CHART  OF  ACCOUNTS.  An  AUDIT  TRIAL  of  all  transaction  is  output. 

LEDGER  5  -  produces  the  PROFIT  AND  LOSS  STATEMENT. 

LEDGER  6  -  produces  the  BALANCE  SHEET.  Assets,  liabilities  and  owners'  equities  are 

shown  by  account  and  by  totals $140.00 

MICROPAY 
An  Accounts  Payable  system.  MICROPAY  includes  the  following  program  &  functions: 

PAY  1  -  initializes  both  Transaction  and  Masterfiles,  then  beginstheAccounts  Payable 
process  by  inputting  and  adding  records  in  the  Transaction  file. 

PAY  2  -  allows  for  changes  and  deletions  of  Transaction  and  Master  records. 

PAY  3  -  reports  outstanding  Accounts  Payables  in  four  categories;  under  30  days,  31-60 
days,  61-90  days,  and  over  90  days. 

PAY  4  -  reports  all  outstanding  Accounts  Payables  for  a  single  customer  or  for  all  custo- 
mers, and  computes  Cash  Requirements. 

PAY  5  -  reports  all  outstanding  Accounts  Payables  for  a  single  date  or  for  a  range  of 
dates  and  computes  the  Cash  Requirements. 

PAY  6  -  lists  both  the  Transactions  and  Master  files. 

PAY  7  -  prints  checks  and  accumulates  and  journalizes  Accounts  Payables.  This  pro- 
gram simultaneously  creates  entries  for  the  MICROLEDGER  file $140.00 

MICROREC 
An  Accounts  Receivable  system,  MICROREC  includes  the  following  programs  and 
functions: 

REC  1  -  initializes  Accounts  Receivable  files,  adds  A/R  record  and  prints  invoices. 

REC  2  -  accepts  receipt  of  customer  payments  and  changes  or  deletions  of  A/R  Trans- 
action or  Master  file  records. 

REC  3  -  reports  outstanding  Accounts  Receivables  in  four  categories;  under  30  days, 
31-60  days,  61-90days,  and  over  90  days. 

REC  4  -  reports  all  outstanding  Accounts  Receivables  for  a  single  customer,  or  for  all 
customers  and  computes  Cash  Projections. 

REC  5  -  produces  reports  for  all  outstanding  Accounts  Receivables  for  a  single  date  or 
for  a  range  of  dates  and  computes  Cash  projections. 

REC  6  -  lists  Transaction  and  Master  files  and  accumulates  and  journalizes  Accounts 
Receivables,  creating  JOURNAL  entries  which  communicate  with  the  MICROLEDGER 

JOURNAL  file $140.00 

MICROINV 
This  Inventory  Control  system  presents  a  general  method  of  Inventory  Control  and  pro- 
duces several  important  reports.  Its  program  includes: 

INV  1  -  initializes  Transaction  and  Master  files  and  adds  and  updates  Transaction  and 
Master  records. 

INV  2  -  handles  inventory  issued  or  received,  creating  inventory  records.  This  program 
also  accumulates  and  journalizes  transactions,  producing  JOURNAL  entries  which 
communicate  with  the  MICROLEDGER  file. 

INV  3  -  lists  both  Transaction  and  Master  files. 

INV  4-  produces  the  STOCK  STATUS  REPORT,  showing  the  standard  inventory  stock 
data  and  stock  valuation,  and  the  ABC  ANALYSIS  breaking  down  the  inventory  into 
groups  by  frequency  of  usage. 

INV  5  -  gives  a  JOB  COST  REPORT/MATERIALS,  showing  allocation  of  materials  used 
year-to-date  by  each  job  or  work  code.  {This  is  complemented  by  the  Job  Cost  Report/ 
Personnel  in  the  MICROPERS  program.) 

INV  6  -  computes  and  provides  the  E.O.Q.  (Economic  Order  Quantities) ....  $140.00 

MICROPERS 

This  is  a  Payroll/Personnel  program  whose  functions  include: 

PERS  1  -  initializes  the  Master  file  and  allows  for  entry  and  updates  of  Master  records. 
PERS  2  -  initializes  the  Payroll  file  and  allows  for  entry  and  updates  of  payroll  records. 
PERS  3  -  lists  an  Employee  Master  Record  or  the  entire  Employee  Master  file;  lists  a 
single  Payroll  Record  or  the  entire  Payroll  file. 

PERS  4  -  computes  Payroll  and  prints  the  PAYROLL  REGISTER.  Prints  PAYCHECKS 
and  creates  JOURNAL  entries  to  be  fed  into  the  MICROLEDGER  JOURNAL  file. 
PERS  5  -  produces  the  JOB  COST  REPORT/PERSONNEL,  computes  the  quarterly  941 

bank  deposit,  and  the  Annual  W-2  run $140.00 

All  COMPUMAX  programs  available  in  machine  readable  format  (diskette  form)  for  the 
following  machines: 

TRS-80™  Model  I  Micropolis  1053/11 

APPLE  II  Microsoft  under  CP/M 

PET  CBASIC  under  CP/M 

Cromemco 


FROM  ADVENTURE  INTERNATIONAL    (By  Scott  Adams) 

t  1 .  ADVENTURELAND  -  You  wander  through  an  enchanted  world  trying  to  recover 
the  13  lost  treasures.  You'll  encounter  wild  animals,  magical  beings,  and  many 
other  perils  and  puzzles.  Can  you  rescue  the  Blue  Ox  from  the  quicksand?  Or  find 
your  way  out  of  the  maze  of  pits?  Happy  Adventuring 

t  2.  PIRATE'S  ADVENTURE  -  "Yo  ho  ho  and  a  bottle  of  rum"  You'll  meet  up  with  the 
pirate  and  his  daffy  bird  along  with  many  strange  sights  as  you  attempt  to  go  from 
your  London  flat  to  Treasure  Island.  Can  you  recover  Long  John  Silver's  lost 
treasures?  Happy  Sailing,  matey 

3.  MISSION  IMPOSSIBLE  ADVENTURE -Good  morning,  your  mission  is  to. ..and  so 
it  starts.  Will  you  be  able  to  complete  your  mission  in  time?  Or  is  the  world's  first 
automated  nuclear  reactor  doomed?  This  one's  well  named.  It's  hard,  there  is  no 
magic,  but  plenty  of  suspense.  Good  luck 

4.  VOODOO  CASTLE  -  Count  Cristo  has  had  a  fiendish  curse  put  on  him  by  his 
enemies.  There  he  lies,  with  you  his  only  hope.  Will  you  be  able  to  rescue  him  or  is 
he  forever  doomed?  Beware  the  Voodoo  Man 


*  All  orders  processed 

within  24-Hours 
•k  30-Day  money  back  guarantee 

on  all  Software  (/ess  a  $3 

penalty  for  handling) 


m 


5.  THE  COUNT  -  You  wake  up  in  a  large  brass  bed  in  a  castle  somewhere  in  Tran- 
sylvani.  Who  are  you,  what  are  you  doing  here,  and  WHY  did  the  postman  deliver 
a  bottle  of  blood?  You'll  love  this  Adventure,  in  fact,  you  might  say  it's  Love  at  First 
Byte 

6.  STRANGE  ODYSSEY  -  Marooned  at  the  edge  of  the  galaxy,  you've  stumbled  on 
the  ruins  of  an  ancient  alien  civilization  complete  with  fabulous  treasures  and 
unearthly  technologies.  Can  you  collect  the  treasures  and  return  or  will  you  end 
up  marooned  forever? 

7.  MYSTERY  FUN  HOUSE -Can  you  find  your  way  completely  through  the  strangest 
Fun  House  in  existence,  or  will  you  always  be  kicked  out  when  the  park  cFoses? . . . 

8.  PYRAMID  OF  DOOM  -  An  Egyptian  Treasure  Hunt  leads  you  into  the  dark  re- 
cesses of  a  recently  uncovered  Pyramid.  Will  you  recover  all  the  treasures  or  more 
likely  will  you  join  its  denizens  for  that  long  eternal  sleep? 

9.  GHOST  TOWN  -  Explore  a  deserted  western  mining  town  in  search  of  1 3  treasures 
From  rattlesnakes  to  runaway  horses,  this  Adventure's  got  them  all!  Just  remem- 
ber, Pardner,  they  don't  call  them  Ghost  Towns  for  nothin'.  (Also  includes  new 

bonus  scoring  system!)  $14.95  Per  Adventure 

*  Note:  Apple  requires  24K  and  has  no  lower  case. 

t  Recommended  for  the  novice  adventurer,  with  many  built-in  HELPS! 


FROM  PERSONAL  SOFTWARE  INC. 

VISICALC  $150.00 

Take  virtually  any  problem  you  would  explore  using  calculator,  pen,  and  paper, 
working  in  rows  and  columns.  Apply  VisiCalc  and  you'll  see  why  every  reviewer  of  this 
product  has  said  the  same  thing:  VisiCalc  is  the  most  useful,  most  important  program  yet 
developed  for  personal  computing. 

With  VisiCalc,  you  work  with  an  electronic  worksheet  of  up  to  63  columns  and  254 
rows.  At  the  juncture  of  any  column  and  row  you  can  type  in  words  and  numbers.  VisiCalc 
automatically  performs  all  arithmetic  functions,  net  present  value,  and  transcendental 
functions  -  instantly! 


CCA  DATA  MANAGEMENT  SYSTEM  $74.95 

DMS  Features: 

File  Creaton  and  Maintenance: 

•  Fields  may  be  alphanumeric,  numeric,  integer,  floating  point,  or  fixed  decimal  with 
commas. 

•  Fields  may  be  COMPUTED  FIELDS.  DMS  will  compute  any  field  within  a  record, 
using  constants  or  other  fields  in  the  same  record.  Functions  include  add,  subtract, 
multiply,  divide,  and  raise  exponential  powers. 

•  Records  are  easily  located,  using  the  SCAN  feature.  SCAN  for  records  with  a  field 
over,  below,  or  between  a  range  of  values. 

•  Records  are  easily  added  and  updated.  DMS  "prompts''  you  with  questions. 

•  Multi-diskette  capabilities  for  larger  files  -  up  to  85,000  characters  per  file! 

•  Sort  the  records  into  almost  any  order,  using  up  to  1 0  fields  as  "keys".  So  you  can 
sort  for  customer  numbers;  within  zip  code,  for  instance. 

•  Delete  records,  "compact"  files,  and  backup  files  on  data  diskettes  easily. 
Report  Features: 

•  Print  reports  with  records  in  any  order. 

•  Select  fields  to  be  printed. 

•  Print  mailing  labels. 

•  Numeric  totals  and  subtotals  can  be  specified  when  a  value  in  an  unrelated  field  in 
the  same  record  changes.  For  example,  sort,  subtotal,  and  print  according  to  depart- 
ment, or  month,  or  customer  number,  or  model  number. 


GUA 


.hahteeopboht 


91% 


WINS 

PLACES 

SHOWS 


32% 


AVERAGE  PROFIT 
AT  ALL  TRACKS-1978 


THE  HORSE  SELECTOR  II  (FLATS)  (By  Dr.  Hal  Davis) $50.00 

New  simplified  version  of  the  original  Horse  Selector.  The  first  Horse  Selection  System 

to  actually  calculate  the  estimated  odds  of  each  horse. 

HIGHER  PROFITS  (OVER  100%)  POSSIBLE  THROUGH  SELECTIVE  BETTING  ON: 

•  Rates  each  horse  in  10  seconds. 

•  Easy  to  follow  rules. 

•  Can  be  used  with  any  Apple  II  Computer. 

•  100%  money  back  guarantee  (returned  for  any  reason). 

•  Uses  4  factors  (speed  rating,  track  variant,  distance  of  the  present  race,  distance  of 
the  last  race) 

•  Using  the  above  factors,  the  Horse  Selector  calculates  the  estimated  odds.  BET  on 
horses  whose  actual  payoff  (from  the  Tote  Board  or  Morning  Lines)  is  higher  than 
payoff  based  on  estimated  odds. 

•  Using  the  above  factors,  the  Horse  Selector  calculates  the  estimated  odds.  BET  on 
any  selected  horse  with  an  estimated  payoff  (based  on  Tote  Board  or  Morning  Lines) 
higher  than  calculated  payoff  (based  on  Horse  Selector  II). 

•  Source  listing  for  theTRS-80T",  TI-59,  HP-67,  HP-41,  Apple  and  BASIC  Computers. 

•  No  computer  or  calculator  necessary  (although  a  calculator  would  be  helpful  for 
the  simple  division  used  to  calculate  estimated  odds) 

FREE  Dutchlng  Tables  allows  betting  on  2  or  more  horses  with  a  guaranteed  profit. 


HOUR 
9A     ORDER 

mFW        LINE 
(914)  425-1535 

ADD  $2.00  FOR  SHIPPING  UPS  AREAS 
ADD  $3.00  FOR  COD.  OR  NON-UPS  AREAS 
ADD  $4.00  OUTSIDE  USA,  CANADA  &  MEXICO 


NEW  TOLL-FREE 

ORDER  LINE 

(OUTSIDE  OF  N.Y.  STATE) 

(800)  431-2818 


Circle  179  on  Inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980         279 


1 
I 

i 
© 


I 
I 

r 


Listing  2:  The  first  third  of  the  firmware  for  Micrograph  control,  written  for  the  Z80 
microprocessor  used  in  the  prototype.  The  remaining  portions  of  the  firmware  will  be 
included  in  the  next  two  issues  of  BYTE,  along  with  hardware  construction  details  (Part 
2,  December  1980  BYTE),  and  software  (Part  3,  January  1981  BYTE). 


00  no 

01)00        n 

0001  C.3W00 


0004 

00 

0005 

on 

0006 

FF 

000  7 

00 

0008 

00 

0009 

02 

OOOA 

00 

OOOB 

no 

OOOC 

FF 

OOOD 

FF 

OOOE 

00 

OOOF 

00 

0010 

FF 

0011 

FF 

0012 

08 

0013 

80 

001 4 

A50A 

0016 

A50A 

0018 

A50A 

001A 

A50A 

001C 

A50A 

ooi  f: 

A50A 

0020 

A50A 

0022 

A5DA 

0024 
0026 

A30B 
A308 

1  3 
1  4 
IS 


19 
20 
21 


3fl 

3  I. 

3  3 
34 
35 
36 
37 
38 
39 
40 
41 
42 
43 
44 
45 
46 
47 
48 
49 
50 
51 
52 
53 
54 

56 
57 
58 
59 
60 
61 
62 
63 
64 
65 
66 


*********** 


>:H  MICROGRAPH  F  IRMWAkF 


MICROGRAPH  1.0  ******************** 

DEVELOPED  BY  BRADY  POOCH 

MICROGRAPH  IS  A  I  JRMWARE  COW  ROl  IF  D  MX  ROPROCF  BSOR 
BASED  COLOR  GRAPHICS  DISPLAY  SY8TE«.  BUILT  AS  A 
SIMPLE  BOARD  DISPLAY  F'ROCFSSOR,  WHICH.  INTfc  RF  ACES 
TO  A  STANDARD  UNMODIFIED  COI.11R  I'ELEV  tSION  -  THE  USER 
SEES  MICROGRAPH  AS  A  256  X  256  PIXEL  SYSTEM,  8  MIS 
PER  PIXEL.  THIS  SYSTEM  IS  MAPPED  TO  AN  EQUAL  OR  LOWER 
RESOLUTION  DISPLAY.  GRAPHICS  PRIMITIVES  ARE  AVAILABLE 
TO  ALLOW  THE  USER  TO  CREATE  GRAPHICS  DISPLAYS. 
MICROGRAPH  INI  ERF  ACES  "10  A  HOST  COMPUTER  VIA  THREF 
H  BIT  </0  PORTS,  FURTHER  INFORMATION  IS  AVAILABLE 
IN  THF  fO'CROGRAI'H  REFERENCE  MANUAL. 


ORB   0 

01 

.If         MAIN 


: SI  ART  AT  ADDRESS  0 
[DISABLE  INTERRUPTS 
[JUMP  TO  MAIN 


;ULOBAE  DEFINITIONS,  CONSTANTS  AND  STRUCTURES***** 


STRUCTURES  ****************************************** 

STRUCTURES  PROVIDES  STORAGE  FOR  ALL  FIRMWARE 
VARIABLES  AND  STRUCTURES.  DEFAULT  VALUES  ARE  PROVIDED 
IN  THIS  SFCTTON,  WHICH  IS  STORED  IN  EF'ROM.  STRUCTURES 
ARE  MOVED  TO  RAM  DURINR  INITIALIZATION,  AND  REFERENCED 
VIA  THE  OFFSETS  DESCRIBED  IN  DEFINITIONS.  NOTE  1HAT 
THE  FIRST  SEVERAL  BYTES  OF  RAM  ARE  RESERVED  FOR  THE 
BRAPHICS  AND  MICROPROCESSOR  STACKS. 


ESTRUCT 

EGDR: 

ECDRO 

EGDR1 

EGDR2 

E8DR3 

E0DR4 

EGDR  5 

EGDR  6 

EGDR7 

EGDR8 

EGDR9 

EGDR10 

EGDR  1.1 

EGDR12 

EGDR 13 

EGDR14 

EGDR15 

ESLINK 

EL  00s 

ELtll: 

EL02: 

FL03: 

EL04: 

EL  05: 

ELOA: 

EL07: 

EL  10; 

EL)  1: 


:E0U 
EQU 
DEFB 
DEFB 
DETB 
DEFB 
DEFB 
DEFB 
DEFB 
DEFB 
DEFB 
DEFB 
DEFB 
DEFB 
DEFB 
DEFB 
DEFB 
DEFB 
EC1II 
DEEM 
DEFW 
DEFW 
DEFW 
DEFW 
DEFW 
DEFW 
DEFW 
DEFW 
DEFW 


* 

* 

0 

0 

255 

0 

0 

oonnnoiUB 

o 

o 


00001000B 

lnnooonns 

USER 

USFR 

USER 

USER 

USER 

USFR 

USER 

USER 

GUSER 

GUSER 


;  START  OF  STRUCTURES 

; GRAPHICS  DISPLAY  REG 

;X 

;Y 

;PRIMARY  COLOR 

; SECONDARY  COLOR 

[FRAME  COUNT 

; VECTOR  MODE 


[VIEWPORT  0 

LEFT  X 

; VIEWPORT  0 

LEFT  Y 

JVIEWPORT  0 

RIGHT  X 

; VIEWPORT  0 

RIGHT  Y 

JVIEWPORT  i 

LEFT  X 

[VIEWPORT  1 

LEFT  Y 

JVIEWPORT  1 

RIGHT  X 

(VIEWPORT  1 

RIGHT  Y 

! DISPLAY  FORMAT 

[STATUS 

; GRAPHICS  S 

JB  LINKAGE 

(SUBROUTINE 

00 

[SUBROUT INE 

01 

(SUBROUTINE 

02 

; SUBROUTINE 

03 

f SUBROUTINE 

04 

•.SUBROUTINE 

05 

; SUBROUTINE 

06 

; SUBROUTINE 

07 

; SUBROUTINE 

10 

[  SUBROUT INE 

1  1 

0028 

A30H 

002A 

A308 

002C 

A308 

002E 

A308 

0030 

A308 

0032 

A308 

0034 

01 

0035 

01. 

0036 

01 

0037 

01. 

0038 

01 

0039 

01. 

003A 

01 

003B 

01. 

003C 

01 

003D 

01. 

003E 

01 

003F 

01. 

0040 

01 

0041. 

01. 

0042 

01 

00  43 

0  1. 

0044 

00 

0045 

00 

0046 

00 

00  4  7 

on 

0  04  8 

00 

0049 

no 

004  A 

no 

004B 

no 

0  04C 

no 

00  4  D 

nn 

00  4E 

(1000 

0050 

C9 

0  066 
0066 


0068 

4601 

006A 

6801 

006C 

7601 

(I06F 

6F02 

0070 

ABO  2 

0  0  72 

1403 

0074 

8703 

0  076 

9F03 

B07S 

CB03 

007A 

FB03 

007C 

8504 

0  0  7E 

EE04 

0080 

0E05 

0  0  82 

5705 

0084 

6505 

0086 

8705 

0088 

BBC)  5 

008* 

4  606 

008C 

8807 

67 
68 
69 
70 
71 
72 
73 
74 
75 
7f. 
77 
78 
79 
80 
81 
82 
83 
84 
85 
86 

8  7 
88 
89 
90 
91 

93 
94 
95 
96 

9  7 
98 
99 

1  00 

1.0  I 
1  0  2 
103 
104 

i  rrs 

I.  (16 
1(17 
1.08 
109 
J  1 0 
J  1  J 

)  i  :■' 

1 1. 3 
1  14 
1.15 
1  1.6 
1  17 
118 

1. 1  9 
120 
121 
122 
123 

1.2  4 
1  25 
.1.2  6 
127 
1.28 

1.30 
1  .'■  1 
.1.32 
1  33 
134 
135 
1.36 
137 
1.3H 


EL.12: 

EL13: 

EL14: 

EL  IF.: 

EL16: 

EL17: 

ESLONG: 

ESOO: 

ESOI. 

ES02; 

ES03  : 

ES04 

E805: 

ES06: 

ES07; 

ES10: 

ES11 

ESJ.2 

ES13: 

ES1.4 

ES15 

E81A1 

ES1.7: 

ESPTR: 

ESOFF: 

EGPC: 

EREF: 

EM: 

EMM: 

EMN: 

ESX! 

ESY! 

ECOLOR: 

EXERRT: 

ENUI  L: 


DEFW 

DEFW 

DEFW 

DEFW 

DEFW 

DEFW 

EQU 

DEFB 

DEFB 

DEFB 

DEFB 

DEFB 

DEFB 

DEFB 

DEFB 

DEFB 

DEFB 

DEFB 

DEFB 

DEFB 

DEFB 

DEFB 

DEFB 

DEFB 

DEFB 

DEFB 

DEFB 

DEFB 

DEFB 

DEFB 

DEFB 

DEFB 

DEFB 

DEFW 

DEFB 


GUSER 

GUSER 

GUSER 

GUSER 

GUSER 

GUSER 

•S 

) 

1 

1 


(SUBROUTINE 

12 

; SUBROUTINE 

13 

(SUBROUTINE 

14 

(SUBROUTINE 

15 

(SUBROUTINE 

16 

(SUBROUTINE 

17 

(GRAPHICS  SUB  LENGTH 

[SUBROUTINE 

00 

[SUBROUTINE 

01 

[SUBROUTINE 

02 

[SUBROUTINE 

03 

[SUBROUTINE 

04 

[SUBROUTINE 

0  5 

[SUBROUTINE. 

06 

[SUBROUTINE 

0  7 

[SUBROUTINE 

10 

[SUBROUTINE 

1.1 

[SUBROUTINE 

12 

[SUBROUTINE 

13 

(SUBROUTINE 

14 

(SUBROUTINE 

1.5 

[SUBROUTINE 

16 

[SUBROUTINE 

i ; 

(GRAPHICS  SUB  POINTER 
[GRAPHICS  SUB  OFFSET 
[GRAPHICS  STACK  POINTER 
[CURRENT  VIEWPORT  REFERENCE 
[VECTOR  DRAWING  TEMP 
(VECTOR  DRAWING  TEMP 
[VECTOR  DRAWING  TEMP 
[VECTOR  DRAWING  TEMP 
(VECTOR  DRAWING  TEMP 
[VECTOR  COLOR  STORAGE 
[ERROR  SERVICE  TEMP 
(FRAME  SERVICE 


NON  MASKABLE  INTERRUPT  TRAP 


A  1RAP  TO  THIS  LOCATION  IN  MEMORY  OCCURS  UPON  RECEIPT 
OF  A  NON  MASKABLE  INTERRUPT,  THIS  SECTION  FORCES  A 
JUMP  TO  THE  ERROR  SERVICE  ROUTINE,  XERR. 


ORG 
JR 


CONSTANTS  ** 


1  02 
XERR 


[LOCATION  OF  INTERRUPT 
[JUMP  TO  ERROR  SERVICE 


CONSTANTS  PROVIDLS  STORAGE  FOR  ALL  FIRMWARE  CONSTANTS 
WHICH  ARE  STORED  IN  EPROM. 


CONST: 
IVECT: 
IMTOi 

TNTl: 
INT2: 
RENTER ( 


EOU 

EUU 

DEFW 

DEFW 

DEFW 

EQU 

DEFW 

DEFW 

DEFW 

DEFW 

DEFW 

DEFW 

DEFW 

DLFW 

DEFW 

DEFW 

DEFW 

DEFW 

DEFW 

DEFW 

DEFW 

DEFW 


* 

* 

FRAMF 

INPUT 

OUTPUT 

CM.  I  S 

LCRAM 

LP  IX 

LREG 

(SUB 

I. SYM 

MOV 

RCRAM 

RtTN 

RPIX 

RREG 

RSUB 

RSYM 

SYM 

VEC 

WAIF 


(START  OF  CONSTANTS 

[START  OF  INTERRUPT 

VEC 

(FRAME  SERVICE 

(INPUT  SERVICE 

[OUTPUT  SERVICE 

(PRIMITIVE  ENTRY  POINTS 

[CALLS  ENTRY 

(LCRAM  ENTRY 

(LPIX  ENTRY 

(LREG  ENTRY 

(LSUB  FNTRY 

(LSYM  ENTRY 

(MOV  ENTRY 

[RCRAM  ENTRY 

[RETN  ENTRY 

(RPIX  ENTRY 

(RREG  ENTRY 

[RSUB  ENTRY 

[RSYM  ENTRY 

(SYM  ENTRY 

[VEC  ENTRY 

[WAIT  ENTRY 

Listing  2  continued  on  page  282 


SNAPP  II  EXTENDED  DASIC 

A  family  of  enhancement  fo  rhe 
Model  II  DASIC  interpreter.  Part  of 
the  package  originated  with  the  best  of 
APPARAT  INCs  thoughts  in  implementing 
NEWDOS  DASIC.  The  system  is  written 
entirely  in  machine  language  for  SUPER 
FAST  execution.  The  extensions  ate  fully 
integrared  into  Model  II  DASIC  and  require  NO 
user  memory,  and  NO  user  disk  space.  The 
packoge  is  made  up  of  the  following  five 
modules,  each  of  which  may  be  purchased 
separately: 

XDASIC  -  Six  single  keystroke  commands  fo  list 
the  first  last,  previous,  next,  ot  current  program 
line,  or  to  edit  the  current  line.  Ten  single 
character  abbteviations  for  frequently  used 
commands:  AUTO.  CLS,  DELETE.  EDIT. 
KILL  LIST,  MERGE,  NEW.  LLIST.ond  SYSTEM.  S25 
XREF  •  A  powerful  cross-reference  facility  with 
output  to  display  and/or  printer.  Trace  a 
variable  thtough  the  code.  Detetmine  easily  if 
a  variable  is  in  use.  $40 

XDUMP  -  Permits  the  programmer  to  display 
ond/or  print  the  value  of  any  or  all  program 
variables.  Identifies  the  variable  type  for  all 
variables  Each  element  of  any  array  is  listed 
separately.  $40 

XRENUM  An     enhanced     program     line 

renumbering  facility  which  allows  specification 
of  on  upper  limit  of  the  block  of  lines  to  be 
renumbered,  supports  relocation  of 
renumbered  blocks  of  code,  ond  supports 
duplication  of  blocks  of  code.  $40 

XFIND  -  Permits  quick  ond  easy  location  of 
specified  strings  or  keywords  within  the 
program  text.  $30 

SAVE  -  on  the  putchase  of  the  entire  package 

CONVERT  i14° 

This  remarkable  utility  converts  "V" 
format  files  (the  sequential  format 
used  by  rhe  SHACKS,  CODAL  and  DASIC 
Compilers)  to  the  "F"  format  files  (the 
sequential  file  format  used  by  the  DASIC 
interpreter  and  DASCOM),  and  vice  versa. 
Without  this  product,  programs  written  for  the 
intetpretet  will  have  to  be  RE-KEYED  to  be 
used   by  the   SHACKS   Compiler  DASIC. 

SKRUNCH  S750° 

A    SUPER    FAST    TRSDOS    UTILITY. 

Compresses  your  DASIC  programs 
to  on  absolute  minimum.  Typically  saves  30- 
40%  space,  even  for  programs  without  REM 
statements!  Also  tesufts  in  7- 1 0%  improvement 
in  execution  speed.  $35 

SDASIC  —  Model  I  and  Model  II 

Ptogtam  in  a  high-level,  full  struc- 
tured DASIC!  The  DEST  of  the 
DASIC  preprocessors.  PERFORM  named 
subroutines.  CONDITIONAL  case  structutes. 
WHILE  loops.  UNTIL  loops.  And  much  more. 
Forget  about  line  numbers.  Model  II  version  is 
compiled,  ond  SUPER  FAST.  From  Ultimate 
Computer  Systems  Model  I      $50 

DOSFIX  Model"    *75 

A  collection  of  patches  to  TRSDOS 
and  DASIC  to  enhance  theit 
usability  and  function  includes  out  well-known 
DREAK7E  patches  to  keep  the  breok  key  from 
being  used  accidentally.  FREE  WITH  ANY 
MODEL   II    SOFTWARE   PACKAGE. 


H  FRIEND 
FOUR  NEW  TRSDOS  COMMANDS! 
SHOW  —  A  much  better  mufti-disk 
directory  display.  Let's  you  see  only  those  files 
you  want,  and  includes  date  of  last  update. 
MOVE  -  A  much  better  file  copying  command. 
Copy/Move  whole  groups  of  files,  renaming 
them  at  the  same  time,  if  desited.  with  just  1 
command! 

ERASE  -  Dettet  than  KILL,  bettet  than  PURGE. 
PRINT  -  Print  DASIC  ptogroms  from  disk,  whether 
saved  in  ASCII  ot  compressed. 
All  4  DOS  commands  allow  fast  processing  of 
one,  or  complete  groups  of  files,  based  on 
generic  naming  and  wild  card  specifications. 
Enhanced    functions   roo    numetous   to   fully 
describe  here. 
EXAMPLES: 
SHOW   PAY7DA5* 

Directory  display  of  all    /DAS'  files  on  all 
diskettes  which  begin  with  PAY.' 
MOVE   PAY*/DAS:1    TO  =/OLD:3 

Save  current  versions  of  payroll  programs  to 
drive  3.  changing  extensions  to  '/OLD.' 
MOVE   OLD*/*   TO   NEW=/=:1 

Copy  all  files  on  drive  0  which  begin  with 
OLD,'  tegatdless  of  extension,  to  drive  1. 
changing  the  first  3  letters  of  the  filename  to 
NEW,'  but  tetoining  the  same  file  extension. 
Save  time! 
Reduce  frustration! 
Eliminate  ERROR  33!  $75 

HHOSTII  /  TERMII 
Allows  remote  control'  of  a  Model 
II  from  anothet  Model  II.  ot  any 
ASCII  terminal.  If  terminal  is  a  Model  II.  accurate 
scteen  positioning  (PRINT  @)  is  fully  supported! 
Requires  NO  user  memory!  This  system  is 
designed  to  provide  software  support  to  our 
customer  locations  without  ever  leaving  the 
office.  $50 

OUGZAP 

A  powerful  utility  oriented  towotd 
the  machine  language  pro- 
grammer. Display/Modify/Print/Memory/ 
Disk  sectors.  Use  this  to  help  you  learn  more 
oboutthe  internals  of  theModel  II.  $50 


8160  Corporate  Pork  Dr. 

Cincinnofi,  Ohio  45242 

Ohio  residents  call  collect 


(513)891-4496 

Call  Toll  Free 

1  -  600  -  543-4626 

Most  products  will  soon  be  available 

for  the  Model  I.  CALL  FOR  DETAILS! 


H  MASTER  /  SLAVE 
This  software  package  was  de- 
signed to  support  rhe  transferring 
of  files  from  one  Model  II  to  another,  via  direct 
connection  or  modem/phone  line  connection. 
ALL  kinds  of  files,  and  baud  rotes  up  to  9600 
ate  fully  supported.  Ttansfet  files  in  either 
direction,  even  with  the  SLAVE  Model  II 
UNATTENDED!  $150 

H  SPOOLER  —  Model  I  and  Model  II 
Our  workhorse!  This  package, 
available  for  Model  I,  in  rhe 
TRSDOS/NEWDOS  or  NEWDOS  80  versions, 
or  for  the  Model  II,  greotly  enhances  system 
performance  when  running  typical  business 
applications.  Many  applications  have  been 
benchmarked  fo  run  nearly  TWICE  AS  FAST 
with  the  SPOOLER  installed.  Installs  in  minutes, 
and  no  changes  are  required  to  your  programs. 
Preferred  Model  II  versions  require  NO  user 
memory.  Optional  features  for  rhe  Model  II 
version  only:  Serial  printer  support,  and  DISK 
SPOOLING  support.  The  DISK  SPOOLING 
support  is  particularly  recommended  for  word 
processing  applications.  $  1 00 

SERIAL  PRINTER  OPTION  $50 

DISK  SPOOLING  OPTION  $50 

H  ROUTE 
Couses  LPRINT  data  to  be  sent  to 
the  video  scteen!  A  great  help  in 
writing  and  debugging  programs  when  no 
printet  is  available,  you  have  a  slow  printer  or 
you  are  just  in  a  hurry.  Con  be  turned  on  ond  off 
from  within  your  DASIC  program.  Requires  NO 
user  memory.  $25 

H  SCREEN 
Supports  the  copying  of  the  full 
video  screen  to  the  printet.  Can 
be  invoked  by  the  operator  with  a  keystroke,  or 
from  your  program  with  o  USRcall.  Requires  NO 
user  memory.  $25 

SAVE 

Retrieve  the  resident  DASIC 
^■^"  program  following  an  occidenral 
SYSTEM,  or  a  system  crash.  DON'T  DE 
WITHOUT  THIS  ONE.  YOU  NEVER  KNOW  WHEN 
YOU  WILL  NEED  IT!  $35 


TERMS   OF  SALE: 

Credit  cotd  customers,  odd  3% 
iBI  COD.  customers  add  $3.  Ohio 
residents  add  4'/i%  sales  tax  Shipments 
normally  mode  rhe  same  day  we  receive 
your  order. 

OUR  GUARANTEE: 

If  your  diskette  arrives  damaged, 
we  will  replace  it  without  charge. 
If  you  ever  accidentally  damage  it.  we  will 
teplace  it  for  a  $10  handling  charge.  For  a 
period  of  one  year,  we  will  provide  you  with 
any  enhancements  or  updates  for  a  $10 
handling  charge.  For  a  period  of  one  year,  if 
errors  are  discovered  in  the  ptogroms,  they  will 
be  corrected  wirhour  charge.  In  rhe  event  we 
cannot  correct  an  error,  you  moy  return  the 
ptogtom  material  for  a  refund. 

TRS-80  is  a  trademark  of  rhe  Radio  Shack 
division  of  Tondy  Corporation. 
NEWDOS  and  NEWDO5/60  ore  rtademarks  of 
Apparar.  Inc. 


Circle  180  on  Inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


8 

(J 


Listing  2  continued: 


140 

I   DEF 

NIT  ION 

,\      ft  ft  *  ft  *  ft  ft  ft  SJJ*  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft'  ft;  ft  ft'  ft  ft  *  ft  ft-  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft;  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft 

1  42 

;  dee 

NITTONS  PROVIDES  GLOBAL  DEFINITIONS  OF  VARIOUS 

143 

1  STRUCTURES 

AND  VARIABLES. 

144 

; 

145 

DEFTN 

EOII 

$ 

81  ART  OF  DEF  IN 

14* 

RES  Ml 

•t:f:uii 

1) 

RESTART  ADDRESS 

147 

PBOTTM:  ERU 

40  9  6 

BOTTOM  OF  PRIVATE  LAM 

Ufl 

HSTACt 

:  EQO 

PB0TTfl+*3 

BOTTOM  OF  MICRO  STARK 

1« 

B8TACJ 

':  FOO 

MSTAOK+64 

BOTTOM  OF  ORARH  STACK 

isu 

STRUCT:  EQU 

OSTAOKU 

START  OF  STRUCTURES 

153 

REI  OC 

LOU 

-E STRUCT 

RET.  ORATION  CONSTANT 

1.52 

SORi 

FIJI! 

RFLOC+FDDR 

GRAPHICS  DISPLAY  REG 

153 

BDROi 

eou 

RFLOC+EGDEO 

X 

1.  S 4 

BBS  1.  i 

EBU 

RFLOO  +  EGDRi. 

Y 

1  55 

0DR2 : 

EOII 

Rt 1 OC+EODR? 

PRIMARY  COLOR 

1.56 

RDR3: 

FQI1 

EEL0C  +  EGDR.3 

SECONDARY  001  OK: 

157 

0DR4  : 

LOU 

RELO0+EGDR4 

FRAME  COUNT 

158 

0DR5: 

E8U 

REEOOEIiORS 

VECTOR  MODE 

15? 

GDR6: 

FOU 

REL0C+EBDR6 

VIEWPORT  0  LEFT  X 

1*0 

GDR7: 

FUII 

REI.OO  +  FODE/ 

VIEWPORT  0  l.l-.ir  Y 

1*1 

0RD8: 

FOO 

RELOC-itPDRB 

VIFWPORT  0  RIGHT  X 

U2 

00R9  : 

EBU 

RELO0+EGDR9 

VIEWPORT  0  RIGHT  Y 

:i  63 

0DR10 

EOII 

RELOC+EOORIO 

VIEWPORT  1  LEFT  X 

164 

OUR  11 

EOII 

REL0C  +  E0DR1.  1 

VIEWPORT  1  LEFT  Y 

IAS 

HDR12 

FOU 

RIL0C:  +  EGDR!2 

VIFWPORT  1  RIGHT  X 

1.6  6 

SDR  13 

EOII 

REL0C  +  EI5DRJ.3 

VIFWPORT  1  RIGHT  Y 

1*7 

BDR14 

FOU 

REL0f:  +  EG0R14 

DISPLAY  1  OKMAT 

1.68 

OCR  IS 

EBU 

RFL0C+FR0RI5 

STATUS 

1*9 

BLINK 

EOII 

RELOC+ESt  INK 

GRAPHICS  SUB  LINKAGE 

170 

1  00: 

FOU 

RELOC  +  El.OO 

SUBROUTINE  00 

171 

L.01  : 

EQU 

REI.00  +  EL01 

SUBROUTINE  01 

172 

L02: 

EOU 

REL0C  +  FI.02 

SUBROUTINE  02 

173 

1 .03! 

FOU 

REL0C+EL03 

SUBROUTINE  03 

174 

1.04: 

EBU 

REL0C  +  EI.IJ4 

SUBROUTINE  04 

ITS 

L05: 

EOII 

RFLOC+FLOS 

SUBROUTINE  OS 

174 

I..0  6: 

EQU 

RELOC  +  EI.OA 

SUBROUTINE  06 

177 

L07: 

EQU 

REL0C+EL07 

SUBROUTINE  07 

178 

HOI 

EOU 

REL0C+FL10 

SUBROUTINE  10 

179 

Lit  J 

EOII 

REI.0C+EL1  1. 

SUBROUTINE  11 

1.80 

1.12: 

EBU 

REL0C+EL12 

subroutine:  ,1.2 

181 

L  1  3  : 

EOU 

REL0C+E.L13 

SUBROUTINE  13 

182 

LI.  4: 

EOII 

REL0C  +  EI.14 

SUBROUTINE  1.4 

183 

L.  1  f. : 

EQU 

REL0C+ELJ5 

SUBROUTINE  15 

184 

1.16: 

EQU 

REL0C  +  FL1.6 

SUBROUTINE  1.6 

185 

L.17: 

ERU 

REL0C+EL17 

SUBROUTINE  17 

18* 

SLONB 

EOU 

RELOC  +  ESI.ONO 

GRAPHICS  SUB  LENGTH 

187 

SOO: 

FQU 

RELOC+ESOO 

SUBROUTINE  00 

188 

SOI: 

EQU 

REL0C+ES01 

SUBROUTINE  01. 

189 

SO?! 

EOU 

REL0C+ES02 

SUBROUTINE  02 

1.90 

S03: 

EOU 

RFL0C+E803 

SUBROUTINE  03 

191 

S04: 

EQU 

REL0C+ES04 

SUBROUTINE  04 

192 

S05: 

EQU 

RELOC+ESQS 

SUBROUTINE  05 

193 

S06: 

EOU 

REL0C+ES04 

SUBROUTINE  06 

194 

S07: 

EQU 

REL0C+FS07 

SUBROUTINE  07 

195 

810: 

EQU 

RELOC+ESiO 

SUBROUTINE  10 

1.96 

Sll  : 

EBU 

RELOO  +  FSU. 

SUBROUTINE  1.1 

197 

812: 

EOII 

REL0G  +  F.S12 

SUBROUTINE  12 

1.98 

S13: 

EQU 

REU»€+ES13 

SUBROUTINE  .1.3 

199 

814: 

FOU 

REL0C  +  E.S14 

SUBROUTINE  14 

200 

8 1 5 : 

EOU 

RFL0C  +  FSJ.5 

SUBROUTINE  IS 

201 

816: 

FQU 

REL.00  +  ES16 

SUBROUTINE  16 

202 

S  1 7 : 

EOU 

REL0C+E817 

SUBROUTINE  17 

207. 

SPTR: 

EQU 

RELOC  +  ERF'TR 

GRAPHICS  BUB  POINTER 

204 

SOW : 

EOU 

RFI.OC  +  FBOFF 

GRAPHICS  SUB  OFFSET 

205 

BPC: 

EOU 

RFLOO+EGRC 

GRAPHICS  STACK  POINTER 

206 

REF: 

FOU 

reloc+eref 

CURRENT  VIEWPORT  REI 

207 

N1 

FOU 

RELOC+EM 

.VECTOR  DRAWING  TEMP 

208 

MM: 

FQU 

REI.OO+FMM 

•VECTOR  DRAWING  TEMP 

209 

MM: 

EQU 

RELOC  +  E.MN 

VECTOR  DRAWING  TEMP 

210 

SX: 

EQU 

REI..OC*ESX 
REE OC+ERY 
RELOCUCCOLOR 

■VECTOR  DRAWING  1  EMP 
VECTOR  DRAWING  TEMP 

212 

BY : 
COLOR 

:   FOU 

; VECTOR  COLOR  STORAGE 

217 

XFRRT 

:   EOU 

Rt  I  OC  +  LXt  RRT 

;  ERROR  SERVICE  (IMP 

008E 

313F10 

009! 

00040! 

1IIIV4 

CUE DO) 

009  7 

CD3DU2 

novo 

JBFB 

009C 
009D 
009E 
00A2 
D0A4 


f  E 
I  S 

DDCBOF  C6 
DDCBOFCE 
DD7E0F 


2L4 
2 1. 5 
2 1 6 
21.7 
218 
219 
220 
221 


22f! 
229 
230 
231. 

233 

234 

236' 
23  7 
238 
239 
240 
241. 
242 

244 
2  45 
246 
247 
248 
2  4  9 
250 
2  SI. 

2S3 
254 

255 
256 
257 
258 
259 
260 
261 
262 
263 
264 
265 
266 
267 
268 
269 
2  70 
271 
2  72 
273 
274 
275 
276 
277 
2  78 
279 
280 
281 
282 
283 
284 
285 
236 
287 


NULL:  EQU 

FREE:  EQU 

SYMTAB:  EBU 

I  OP:  EQU 

CRO:  EOU 

Ri  :  I  (1 1 1 

R2:  EOII 

BOTTOM: EOU 

RTOP:  FBI] 

ft  *  ft  ft  ft  *  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  *  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft 
MAIN  PROGRAM  BI.OCKftftftftftftftftftftft 
ft*ft*ftftft*ftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftft^ 

MAIN    ftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftft 


REI.OIM-ENUI.I, 

B'lRUCHNU!  I  I  I 

51.20 

6143 

7  160 

7184 

7700 

819  2 

1  4335 


FRAME  SERVICE 

START  01  FRl.  E  RAM 

START    OF    SYftBOl      I A 01  E 

TOP  OF  PRIVATE  PAN 

COLOR  RAM  0 

COLOR  RAM  1 

COLOR  RAM  2 

START    01     LI  I  RI  811    RAM 

REFRESH  TOP  SYSTEM  I 


>ftftftftftftftftft- 


MAIN  IS  THE  DRIVER  FOR  MICROGRAPH.  OF  1 1  R  I  NIT)  At  I7.IN0 
SI',  MAIN  CALLS  INT.  I.  FETCH  AND  EXEC  ARE  CALLED  IN 
TURN  TO  PROCESS  IHF  GRAPHICS  PRIMITIVES. 


CA1  I.S 

CALLED  BY 
REGISTERS 
170 
STRUCTURES 


i  n  1 1 

FETCH 
EXE  i: 

NO!  APPLICABLE. 

8P       (STACK  POINTER) 

NONE 
NONE 


MAIN:    ID  BP.MBTACK 

CALL  IN  IT 

I  OOP:    CAI  I  FETCH 

CALL  EXEC 

,IR  LOOP 


; INTERRUPT  SERVICE  ROUTINES 


INITIALIZE  SP 

INITIALIZE     THE    SYSTEM 
FETCH    A    PRIMITIVE 
EXECUTE    A    PRIMITIVE 
REM  A 'I     I  N0EF1  Nil  I:  Li- 
ft *  ft  ft  ft  ft  *  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft  ft 
ftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftft 
ftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftft 


XE^RR    ftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftft 

XFRR  SERVICES  AN  ERROR  CONDITION.  XFRR  IS  CALLED  UPON 
A  TRAP  TO  IHF  NON  MASKABLE  INTERRUPT  VECTOR. 
XERR  ALLOWS  A  SYSTEM  RESET,  REGISTER  DUMP,  OR  MEMORY 
DUMP  VIA  THE  DIAGNOSTIC  DIRECTIVES. 


CALLS 

8ENDBY 

CALLED  BY 

NON  MA! 

(KABLE  INTERRUP1 

REGISTERS 

A 

<DUMP) 

B 

(DUMP) 

E 

(DUMP) 

0 

(DUMP) 

E 

(DUMP) 

H 

(DUMP) 

L 

(DUMP) 

IX 

<  DUMP  ) 

IY 

(DUMP) 

SP 

(DUMP) 

170 

PORT  2 

(STATUS) 

PORT  4 

(INPUT) 

STRUCTURES 

GDR15 

(STATUS) 

XERR:    EI 

PUSH  AF 

SET  0, (IXibDRlS) 
SET  1,(IX+GDR1S) 
LD    A.UXiGDRlS) 


: ENABLE  INTERRUPTS 

[SAVE  A  AND  I- 

;8ET  ERROR 

:SET  ERROR 

lGE.1     WE     STATUS 

Listing  2  continued  on  page  284 


OS-9  "LEVEL  TWO  MULTIUSER 
OPERATING  SYSTEM 


Ti 


rue  multitasking,  multiuser  OS 
for  timesharing  or  real-time 
control  applications 

■  Sophisticated  memory 
management  permits  use 
of  over  one  megabyte. 

■  Versatile,  easy-to-use  input/output 
supports  multiple  devices. 

■  UNIX™ -like  file  structure  including 
hierarchical  directories,  pipes,  filters, 
and  byte-addressable  random  access  files. 

■  Provides  log-on  password  protection 
and  user  file  security. 

■  Can  run  on  small,  inexpensive 
systems  with  floppy  disks  and  as  little  as 
32K  memory. 

□  $495.00* 


INTRODUCING 


6809 


SOFTWARE 
POWER 
TOOLS 


and  edited. 

■  Buffer,  line  and  character  oriented 
commands. 

■  Search,  change  and  extend  operations. 

■  Permits  multiple  input/output  files. 

□  Disk  or  tape  $75.00 

□  ROM  set  (2716)  $90.00 


OS-9™ 
INTERACTIVE  ASSEMBLER 


OS-9™  LEVEL  ONE 
OPERATING  SYSTEM 

A  multitasking  real-time  operating 
system  for  software  development, 
process  control  and  smaller 
multi-user  applications. 

■  Versatile  input/output  system  can 
support  multiple  devices  using 
interrupt-driven,  DMA,  or  program- 
controlled  data  transfer.  Users  can  easily 
add  additional  I/O  devices. 

■  Tape  or  disk-based  versions  available. 

■  Disk  versions  support  UNIX™ -like 
hierarchical  directory  structure  and 
byte-addressable  random-access  files. 

■  Memory  management  for  single 
address-space  (up  to  64K). 

□  Disk  version  $150.00* 

□  Tape  version  $95.00 


BASIC09™ 
PROGRAMMING 
LANGUAGE  SYSTEM 

Extended  BASIC  language 
compiler/interpreter  with 
integrated  text  editor  and  debug 
package.  Runs  standard  BASIC  programs 
or  minimally-modified  PASCAL  programs. 

■  Permits  multiple  named  program 
modules  having  local  variables  and 
identifiers.  Modules  are  reentrant, 
position  independent  and  ROMable. 

■  Additional  control  statements  for 
structured  programming:  IF  . . .  THEN 
.  .  .  ELSE,  FOR  ...  NEXT,  REPEAT  .  . . 
UNTIL,  WHILE  ...  DO,  LOOP  .  . . 


BY  MICROWARE^ 


ENDLOOP,  EXITIF  . . .  ENDEXIT. 

■  Allows  user-defined  data  types  and 
complex  data  structures.  Five  built-in 
data  types:  byte,  integer,  9  digit 
floating-point,  string  and  boolean. 

■  Outperforms  any  other  BASIC  on  any 
8-bit  MPU. 

■  Available  on  ROM,  disk  or  cassette 
tape.  Runs  under  OS-9™  Level  One  or 
Level  Two. 

□  Disk  or  tape  $195.00* 


S 


MICROSOFT 
6809  BASIC 


tandard  Microsoft  BASIC  optimized 
for  the  6809  and  OS-9™. 

■  Four  data  types:  integer,  string, 
single  precision  and  double  precision 
floating  point. 

■  Program  trace  and  edit  capabilities. 

■  Automatic  line  numbering  and 
renumbering. 

■  Supports  random  and  sequential 
file  I/O.  Full  PRINT  USING  for 
formatted  output. 

□  Disk  or  tape  $250.00 


M 


OS-9™  TEXT 
EDITOR 


inimum-keystroke  macro  text 
editor  useful  for  text 
preparation  or  interactive 

word  processing. 

■  User-defined  macros  with 

parameters  permit  virtually 

unlimited  command  expansion. 

Macros  can  be  saved,  loaded 


Compact  Motorola  compatible 
assembler  for  machine  language 
program  development. 

■  Operates  in  "batch"  mode  or 
interactive  line-by-line  mode. 

■  Facilities  for  generation  of  OS-9™ 
memory  modules  and  system  calls. 

■  Formatted  listings  include  syntax  and 
context  error  checking. 

■  Runs  on  OS-9™  Level  One  or 
Level  Two. 

□  Disk  or  tape  $75.00 

□  ROM  set  (2716)  $90.00 


F; 


OS-9™ 
INTERACTIVE 
DEBUGGER 


acilitates  testing  and  debugging  of 
machine-  language  programs. 

■  Includes  common  "monitor" 
functions:     memory  examine/change, 
breakpoints,  display/change  registers,  etc. 

■  Calculator  mode  evaluates  arithmetic 
expressions  in  hex,  decimal  or  binary. 

■  Access  to  system  commands. 

■  Available  on  ROM,  disk  or 
cassette  tape. 

□  Disk  or  tape  $35.00 

□  ROM  (2716)  $50.00 

BASIC  09  is  a  trademark  of  Motorola.  OS-9  is  a 
trademark  of  Motorola  and  Microware".  UNIX  is  a 
trademark  of  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories. 

Most  software  is  available  on  ROM, 
diskette  and  tape  in  versions  for  many 
popular  6809  computers.  Source  listings 
and  yearly  maintenance/update  service 
are  sold  separately  for  most  programs. 

*Specify  manufacturer  and  type  of  CPU 
and  I/O  controllers.  Contact  Microware® 
for  specific  availability. 


MICROWARG 

Microware  Systems  Corp. .  Dept.  BI 
5835  Grand  Avenue 
Des  Moines,  Iowa  50304 
(515)  279-8844 


Circle  181  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


283 


I 


I 

I 

5" 


Listing 

2  continued: 

00A9 

D302 

233 

OOftB 

DDCB0F66 

289 

00  AF 

28FA 

290 

OOB1 

0804 

291 

008,? 

DDCB0FA6 

2  9  2 

0087 

F5 

293 

0088 

DD7E0F 

29  4 

OOBB 

D302 

295 

008  D 

Fl 

296 

DGBE 

C87F 

297 

COCO 

C20000 

298 

U0C3 

CB77 

2  99 

00C5 

204F 

300 

ooc? 

Fl 

301 

00C8 

F5 

30  2 

OOC* 

CD910A 

303 

oocc 

78 

30  4 

noi.  j 

CD  9  JO.', 

3  05 

0080 

79 

306 

0  0D1 

CD9I.0A 

3  07 

ODD'. 

7  A 

308 

U0D5 

CD910A 

3  09 

0008 

n 

3 1  Li 

0009 

CD910A 

311 

OODC 

7C 

312 

OCIDD 

CD910A 

313 

OOEO 

7D 

314 

00E1 

CD910A 

3  1  5 

00E4 

DD22CA10 

3 1  6 

DOES 

DD7E4A 

317 

00E8 

CD910A 

313 

ooee: 

DD7E4  8 

319 

Q0F1 

CD910A 

320 

OOF  4 

FD22CA10 

321 

00F8 

DD7E4A 

322 

OOFB 

CD910A 

323 

OOFE 

DD7E4B 

324 

0 1  0 1 

CD910A 

325 

0104 

09 

326 

0105 

2E00 

327 

0107 

2600 

328 

0109 

39 

329 

010A 

7D 

330 

01  08 

CD910A 

331 

010E 

7C 

332 

n  *  or 

CD910A 

333 

0112 

09 

33  4 

0113 

Fl 

335 

Oil'. 

1395 

3  36 

0  1 1 6 

Fl 

337 

0117 

08 

338 

one 

D9 

339 

on? 

DDCB0F66 

3  40 

0  1 1 D 

28FA 

341 

01  IF 

D804 

342 

0 1 2 1 

6F 

343 

0122 

DDCB0FA6 

34  4 

0126 

DD7E0F 

3  4  5 

0129 

0302 

346 

0128 

0DCB0F66 

34  7 

012F 

28  FA 

34  3 

0  1  3 1 

DB04 

34  9 

0133 

6  7 

350 

013'. 

DDC80FA6 

351 

0138 

DO/EOF 

352 

0138 

0302 

353 

01  3D 

7E 

35  4 

013! 

CD910A 

355 

0141 

D9 

356 

0142 

08 

357 

0143 

C3AB00 

358 
359 
36  0 
361 
362 

OUT 

<  2  >  »  A 

DISPLAY  THE  STATUS 

BIT 

4, (IX+GDR15) 

WAIT  FOR  D1REC1 IVE 

JR 

Z, XERRO 

JUMP  UNTIL  RECEIVED 

IN 

A,  (4) 

GET  THE  DATA 

RES 

4.  <  IXhjDRI.5) 

RESET  THE  STATUS 

push 

AF 

SAVE  A  AND  F 

LD 

A, (IX+0DR15) 

OFT  THE  STATUS 

OUT 

<  2  )  ,  A 

OUTPUT  THE  STATUS 

POP 

AF 

RESTORE  A  AND  1- 

B I  T 

7,  A 

TEST  FOR  RESET 

,IP 

NZ, RESTART 

RESTART  IF  SET 

BIT 

6,  A 

TEST  FOR  DIRECT  1VF, 

JR 

NZ.XERRl 

JUMP  IF  SET 

POP 

AF 

RE SI  ORE  A  AND  f 

PUSH 

AF 

SAVE  A  COPY  01  A  AND  F 

CALL 

SEND8Y 

SI  ND  A 

LI) 

A,B 

GET  li 

CALL 

SENDBY 

SEND- B 

LD 

A,C 

GET  C 

CALL 

SENDBY 

SEND  c 

LD 

A,D 

GET  D 

CALL 

SEND BY 

SEND  D 

LO 

A,E 

GET  E 

CALL 

SENDBY 

SEND  E 

LD 

A,H 

GET  H 

CALL 

SENDBY 

SEND  H 

LD 

A,L 

GET  L 

CALL 

SENDBY 

SEND  L 

LD 

(STRUCTFXERNT) , IX 

GET  IX 

LD 

A,  (lX-iXERRT! 

GET  LOU  BYTE. 

CALL 

SENDBY 

SEND  IT 

LD 

A, (IX-fXFRRT  +  1 ) 

GET  HIGH  BYTE 

CALL 

SENDBY 

SEND  I  r 

LD 

(BTRUCT+XERRT) , 1Y 

GET  IY 

LD 

A, (IXtXERRT) 

GET  LOU  BYTE 

CALL 

SENDBY 

SEND  IT 

LD 

A, (IX+XERRT+1 > 

SET  HIGH  BYTE 

CALL 

SENDBY 

SEND  IT 

EXX 

SAVE  PRIMARY  REGISTERS 

LD 

L,0 

CLEAR  POINTER 

LD 

H ,  0 

CLEAR  POINTER 

ADD 

HI.  ,  SP 

GET  THE  STACK  POINTER 

LD 

A,L 

GET  THE  LOU  BYTE 

CALL 

SENDBY 

SEND  IT 

LD 

A,H 

GET  THE  HIGH  BYTE 

CALL 

SENDBY 

SEND  IT 

EXX 

RESTORE  PRIMARY  REGS 

POP 

AF 

RESTORE  A  AND  F 

JR 

XERRO 

DO  IT  AGAIN 

POP 

AF 

POP  A  AND  ! 

EX 

AF.AF' 

SAVE  A  AND  F 

EXX 

SAVE  PRIMARY  REGISTERS 

BIT 

4,  (IX+GDR15) 

TEST  THE  INPUT 

JR 

Z.XEKR2 

JUMP  IF  NOT  SET 

IN 

A  ,  (  4  ) 

GET  THE  DATA 

LD 

L,A 

RAVE  THE  LOU  ADDRESS 

RES 

4,  (  IXJ-GDR15) 

RESET  THE  FLAG 

LD 

A,  (IX-(GDR1.S> 

GET  THE  STATUS 

OUT 

(  2  )  ,  A 

SEND  THE  STATUS 

8 1  T 

■'.,   (  I>f*ebfti5! 

TEST  TFIE  INPUT 

JR 

Z.XERR3 

JUMP  IF  NOT  SET 

IN 

A.  (4! 

GET  THE  DATA 

LD 

H ,  A 

SAVE  THE  HIGH  ADDRESS 

REE 

4, (IXiOOftiS) 

RESET  THE  FLAG 

1,0 

A,  (IXt-GDRlS) 

GET  THE  STATUS 

OUT 

(  2  )  ,  A 

SEND  THE  STATUS 

LD 

A , ( HL ) 

GET  THE  MEMORY  DATA 

CALL 

SENDBY 

SEND  THE  DATA 

EXX 

RESTORE  PRIMARY  REGS 

e:x 

AF , AF ' 

RESTORE  A  AND  F 

Jp 

XERRO 

DO  IT  AGAIN 

FRAME  *Sf*««*ss* ******»««*«««««»«*»*«•«»»»«* ^ 

FRAME  IS  THE  INTERRUPT  SERVICE  ROUTINE  FOR  A  FRAMF 


0146 
0147 
01.48 
014C 
014E 
U1S1 
0154 
0157 
015A 
015C 
0160 
0163 
01  6  5 
0166 


0168 

016? 
01  6  A 
Q16E 
0  1  7 1 
0173 
0174 


FB 

DDCB0FD6 

DD7E0F 

D302 

DD340  4 

CDCC10 

DD7E0E 

0300 

DDCB0F96 

DD7E0F 

0302 

Fl 

ED4D 


DDC80FE6 
DD7E0F 


Fl 
ED4D 


363 
364 

365 
366 
367 
368 
369 
370 
371 
372 
37  3 
3  74 
375 
376 
377 
3  78 
379 
330 
38 1 
382 
383 
384 
385 
386 
337 
388 
389 
390 


393 

3  94 
395 

396 

39  7 
398 
399 

4  00 
401 
402 
403 

40  4 
405 

40  6 
4  07 
4  08 

4  1 U 
4 1 1 
412 
41.3 

4 1  4 
4  1  5 
416 
4  1  7 
418 
4  1 9 
420 
421 

42  4 

426 
4  27 
423 

43  0 
431 
432 
4  33 
4  34 
435 
4  36 
43  7 


COUNT  INTERRUPT  (FIRST  PRIORITY,  MASKABLE  INTERRUPT). 
FRAME  FIRST  SETS  THE  FRAME  INTERRUPT  FLAG,  INCREMENTS 
THE  FRAME  COUNT,  CALLS  NULL,  THE  FRAME  SERVICE 
ROUTINE  IN  RAM,  AND  THEN  RESETS  THE  FRAME  INTERRUPT 
FLAG.  NOTE  THAT  THE  OUTPUT  TO  THE  DISPLAY  PORT  FORCES 
A  RESET  OF  THE  INTERUPT  FOR  THE  FRAME  INTERRUPT, 
SINCE  THE  INTERRUPT  IS  PRODUCED  ON  THIS  PORT. 


CALLS 
CALLED  BY 
REGISTERS 


STRUCTURES 


NULL 


FIRST  PRIORITY  MASKABLE  INTERRUPT 


A 
F 
IX 

PORT  0 
PORT  2 

GDR4 

GDR14 

GDR15 


(1EMP0RARY) 
(TEMPORARY) 

( INDEX) 

(DISPLAY) 
(STATUS) 

(FRAME  COUNT ) 
(DISPLAY  FORMAT) 
(STATUS) 


PUSH  AF 

EI 

SET  2,(IX+GDR15) 

LD  A,(IX+GDR15) 

OUT  (2), A 

INC  (IX+GDR4) 

CALL  STRUCT+NULL 

LD  A, (IX+GDR14) 

OUT  (0),A 

RES  2, (IX+GDR15) 

LD  A,(OHGDR15> 

OUT  (2), A 

POP  AF 

RET  I 


;SAVE    A    AND    F 

; ENABLE    INTERRUPTS 

;SET    FRAME    INTERRUPT 

(GET    GDR15 

! UPDATE  THE  STATUS 

; INCREMENT  FRAME  COUNT 

[CALL  NULL  IN  RAM 

;GET  THE  DISPLAY  FORMAT 

[SEND  IT 

[RESET  FRAME  INTERRUPT 

[GET  THE  STATUS 

[UPDATE  THE  STATUS 

[RESTORE  A  AND  F 

[RETURN  FROM  INTERRUPT 


INPUT 


INPUT  IS  THE  INTERRUPT  SERVICE.  ROUTINE  FOR  AN  INPUT 
INTERRUPT  (SECOND  PRIORITY,  MASKABLE  INTERRUPT). 
INPUT  SIMPLY  SETS  THE  INPUT  INTERRUPT  FLAG  IN  GDR15. 


CALLS 
CALLED  BY 
REGISTERS 

170 
STRUCTURES 


NONE 

SECOND  PRIORITY  MASKABLE  INTERRUPT 


F 
IX 

PORT  :■■ 

GDR1.5 


(TEMPORARY) 
(TEMPORARY) 
( INDEX) 

(STATUS) 

(STATUS) 


PUSH  AF 

EI 

SET  <t,  (DHOrjRiS! 

LD  A,(IX.GDR15) 

OUT  (2), A 

POP  AF 
RET  I 


[SAVE  A  AND  F 
[ENABLE  INTERRUPTS 
[SET  INPUT  INTERRUF'T 
;mX    GDR15 
[UPDATE  THE  STATUS 
[RESTORE  A  AND  F 
[RETURN  I  ROM  INTERRUPT 


OUT  PUT 


OUTPUT  IS  THE  INTERRUPT  SERVICE  ROUTINE.  LOR  AN  OUTPUT 
INTERRUPT  (THIRD  PRIORIIY,  MASKABLE  INTERRUPT). 
OUTPUT  SIMPLY  RESETS  IKE  OUTPUT  1NTERRRUPT  FLAG  IN 
GDR15. 

CALLS  NONE 

CALLED  EY      THIRD  PRIORITY  MASKABLE  INTERRUPT 

Listing  2  continued  on  page  286 


META  TECHNOLOGIES 

FOR  YOUR  DISK  SYSTEM 


FILE  BOX    $19S&~ 

DISKETTE  STORAGE  SYSTEM         for  8"  disks  .  .  .$24.95* 


MTC  brings  you  the  ULTIMATE  diskette 
storage  system,  at  an  affordable  price.  Stor- 
ing 50  to  60  diskettes,  this  durable,  smoke- 
colored  acrylic  unit  provides  easy  access 
through  the  use  of  index  dividers  and  ad- 
justable tabs.  Unique  lid  design  provides 
dust-free  protection  and  doubles  as  a  carry- 
ing handle. 


PLASTIC  LIBRARY  CASES 

(not  shown) 
An  economical  form  of  storage  for  10  to  15 
diskettes,  and  is  suitable  for  your  bookshelf! 
Case  opens  into  a  vertical  holder  for  easy  ac- 
cess. 

S'/i-inch  or  8-inch  diskette  case $3.00* 


TRS-80™  PRODUCTS 


MHWkStHV  ItlSU  tUXOitKIt 

iVOTHI  K  MYSTKKlh; 


NEWDOS/80  by  Apparat $149.95 

NEWDOS+  with  ALL  UTILITIES 

35-track $69.95 

40-track j79  g5 

TRS-80TM    DISK   AND   OTHER   MYSTERIES 

.  .  .$19.95 
MICROSOFT  tm  BASIC  DECODED  &  OTHER 
MYSTERIES  for  the  TRS-80TM $29.95 


THANK 
YOU 

u  1980... 

To  show  our  appreciation  for  a  very 
successful  year,  thanks  to  our 
thousands  of  satisfied  customers,  we 
are  offering  some  great  products  at 
prices  even  lower  than  our  regular  low 
prices.  We  make  an  honest  effort  to 
deliver  the  best  products  at  the  lowest 
prices  with  the  fastest  service.  The 
confidence  you  have  shown  in  MTC  is 
recognized  and  welcomed.  Our 
mothers  thank  you,  our  fathers  thank 
you,  our  children  thank  you  . . .  and  we 
thank  you. 


Single  Sided,  Single  Density,  Soft-Sectored 
5'/4-inch,  (for  TRS-80™)  Mini-floppy 

DISKETTES 


$19 


80  m 

box  of  10 


Meta  Technologies  strikes  again ...  at 
the  competition!  These  are  factory 
fresh,  absolutely  first  quality  (no 
seconds!)  mini-floppies.  They  are 
complete  with  envelopes,  labels  and 
write-protect  tabs  in  a  shrink- 
wrapped  box. 

INTRODUCING 

PLAIN  JANE™ 

DISKETTES 

The  Beautiful  Floppy 

with  the  Magnetic  Personality"* 

In  1980  alone,  MTC  has  sold  nearly  a  third 
of  a  million  dollars  worth  of  brand-name 
diskettes.  If  anyone  knows  quality,  we  do. 
And  these  are  quality  diskettes.  The 
catch?  They  are  in  a  plain  white  box. 
You're  not  paying  for  fancy  printing,  fancy 
labels  or  fancy  names  on  the  packaging. 
We  don't  even  put  our  own  label  on  the 
package  (labels  cost  money).  At  this  in- 
troductory price  (our  regular  price  will  be 
$21.95  per  box  of  10)  we  cannot  offer 
quantity  or  dealer  discounts. 

PLAIN  JANETM  Diskettes $19.80* 

VERBATIM  brand  Diskettes  (box  of  10) 

5 '/« -inch  (for  TRS-80TM) 

MD525-01 $23.95 

10  boxes  of  10. . .  (each  box). . .  $22.95 

8-inch  FLOPPIES 

Single-Density,  FD34-1000  . . .  $29.95 
Double-Density,  FD34-8000  . .  $39.95 


CALL  FOR  INFORMATION  ON 
OTHER  TRS-80™  PRODUCTS 


All  products 

guaranteed  for 

replacement  only. 

Prices,  Specifications  & 

Offerings  subject  to 
change  without  notice. 


m 


MOST  ORDERS 

SHIPPED 

WITHIN  ONE 

BUSINESS  DAY 


PRICES  GOOD  THRU 
NOVEMBER  30,  1980. 
Sorry,  no  dealer  or 
quantity  discounts. 
Allow  for  shipping 
delays  for  1980 
specials. 


WE  ACCEPT 

•  VISA 

•  MASTER  CHARGE 

•  CHECKS 

•  MONEY  ORDERS 

•  COD. 


Add  $2.50  for 
standard  UPS 
shipping  &  handling 
$2  00  EXTRA 
for  COD. 
Ohio  residents 
add  5';%  sales  tax. 


TO  ORDER  CALL  TOLL  FREE 

1-800-321-3552 

IN  OHIO  call  (216)289-7500  (COLLECT) 

(YlETR  TECrMQLQGJES  CORPORflTmi 


26111  Brush  Avenue,  Euclid,  Ohio  44132 


TRS-80  is  a  TM  of  Tandy  Corp. 
PLAIN  JANE  is  a  TM  of  MTC. 
1980  by  Metatechnologies  Corporation,  Inc. 


Circle  182  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980        285 


Listing  2  continued: 


4  30   ; 

REGISTERS 

A 

(TEMPCR 
(TEMPOR 

'iRY! 
ARY! 

440 

IX 

( INDEX) 

4  4 1 

/,  4  2       1 

1/0 

PORT  2 

(STATUS 

) 

4  43 

4  4  4 

STRUCTURES 

BORIS 

(STATUS 

) 

4  45 

0176 

f  5 

4  46   C 

LIT  F' LIT !  POSH 

AF 

;SAVE  A  AND  F 

0177 

FB 

447 

EI 

; ENABLE  INTERRUPTS 

0176 

BDCB0F9E 

448 

RES 

3, CIX+ODRlt 

) 

JRESET  OUTPUT  INTERRUPT 

01  7C 

DD7E0F 

44? 

I...  Ij 

A,  (IX+GDR15 

) 

[GET  GDR15 

01  7  f 

0302 

450 

OUT 

itS.  A 

; UPDATE  THE  STATUS 

0181 

Fl 

451 

POP 

AF 

; RESTORE  A  AND  F 

0182 

E64B 

452 
453 
454 

RLT1 

; RETURN  FROM  INTERRUPT 

sississsJSS 

s  *#«  « it  *■«  «tst-»  s 

******* 

**«*sjHf*SM)f»**««*i!l<**** 

455 

PROCESS  DRIVERS******** 

******* 

************************ 

456 
45  7 
458 

*********** 

************ 

*  *  *  *  *  *  * 

************************ 

INIT  ***** 

************ 

******* 

jtiMC  11*11  «^«I#««M«  II  *««*'« 

459 
4  60 

1HI1  INITIALIZES  MICROGRAPH. 

THE  lNPUT/OUTFUT  PORTS 

461 

ARC  FIRST 

SET  UP,  THE! 

MEMORY 

IS  CLEARED.  INIT  THEN 

462 

LOADS  HIE 

RAM  WITH  THE 

STRUCTURES,  THEN  SET  THE 

463 

INTERRUPTS 

4  64 

4  65 

CALLS 

NONE 

46  6 

4  67 

CALLED  BY 

ftftlN 

468 

469 

REGISTERS 

A 

(TEMPORARY) 

4/0 

B 

( TEMPOR 

ARY) 

471 

C 

(TEMPORARY! 

4  7  2 

D 

(TEMPOR 

ARY) 

4  73 

E 

(TEMPORARY) 

474 

H 

(POINTER) 

475 

L 

(POINTER) 

476 

IX 

(INDEX) 

477 

IY 

( INDEX) 

4  73 
4  79 
4  80 

I 

(INTERF 

UPT  VECTOR! 

,  I/O 

ALL  FOR" 

f: 

431 

4  82 

I  STRUCTURES 

ALL  STRUCTURES 

4  33 

0184 

St  Of 

4  64 

Nil:    LB 

A, 00 UUll 111 

I  LOAD  MODE  2  MASK 

0136 

D301 

435 

our 

(  1  )  ,  A 

iSET  UP  DISPLAY 

oi  ee 

1)303 

4  86 

OUT 

(  3  )  ,  A 

J8E1  UP  STATUS 

018A 

D307 

487 

OUT 

(  7  )  ,  ft 

;SET  UP  OUTPUT 

01  8 1 

3E4F 

466 

1.  D 

A ,01001 1 1  IE 

I  LOAD  MODE  1  MASK 

013K 

D305 

489 

OUT 

(  5  !  ,  ft 

;SET  UP  INPUT 

0190 

3  LA  8 

4  90 

LD 

A,  INTO 

;GET  FIRST  VECTOR 

01?2 

D301 

491 

OUT 

(  1  !  ,  A 

ISET  UP  FRAME  INTERRUPT 

0 )  9 4 

3E6A 

492 

LD 

,T,  INT1 

[GET  SECOND  MFC TOR 

0176 

D303 

49  3 

our 

<  5  )  ,  A 

[SET  UP  INPUT  INIFRUPT 

01  98 

3B6C 

4  94 

LD 

A,  I  NT  2 

;GET  THIRD  INTERRUPT 

oi?  a 

0307 

495 

OUT 

(  7  !  ,  A 

ISET  UP  OUTPUT  INT 

019C 

3F07 

4  96 

ID 

ft,  000001  1  11 

; DISABLE  INTERRUPTS 

019E 

D303 

49  7 

our 

<  3  >  ,  A 

ISET  STATUS 

01A0 

3FB7 

4  98 

ED 

A,  100001 1.  IE 

:- ENABLE  INTERRUPTS 

01A2 

D301 

499 

OUT 

(1)  ,A 

[SET  DISPLAY 

0 1  f . ', 

03  OS 

500 

OUT 

(  5  )  ,  A 

;SET  INPUT 

01A6 

D307 

501 

our 

<  7  )  ,  A 

ISET  OUTPUT 

01A6 

3E6Q 

502 

LD 

fl, 100006006 

[SET  STATUS 

01AA 

D302 

50  3 

our 

(2)  ,A 

;SET  STATUS 

01  AC 

DD21E010 

504 

LD 

IX, STRUCT 

ISET  UP  IX 

01 80 

DD360000 

505 

LD 

(IX+O! ,0 

ICLEAR  FIRST  WORD 

01B4 

216010 

506 

LD 

HL, STRUCT 

; POINT  TO  STRUCT 

01B7 

113110 

50  7 

LD 

DE, STRUCT!-) 

IPOINT  TO  NEXT  STRUCT 

01BA 

Q14D00 

508 

LD 

EC, FREE-  STRUCT 

ISET  UP  COUNT 

Qiao 

EDBO 

509 

LDIR 

ICLEAR  PRIVATE  RAM 

01RF 

2104  00 

5  1 0 

LD 

HL.ESTRUCT 

; POINT  TO  STRUCTURES 

01C2 

113010 

511 

LD 

DE, STRUCT 

IPOINT  TO  STRUCT 

01 C3 

014DOO 

5 1 2 

LD 

BCENULL-ES 

TRUCT+1 

I  GET  THE  COUNT 

G1C8 

EDBO 

513 

01  CA 

210020 

5  1  4 

01  CD 

3600 

515 

01CF 

110120 

5  1  6 

01 02 

010018 

5 1  7 

01D5 

EDBO 

518 

01D7 

DDCBOFBE 

51? 

01 0* 

DD7E0F 

520 

01  OF 

D302 

521 

01  ELI 

3E00 

522 

01E2 

ED  4/ 

523 

0 1  F  4 

ED5L 

524 

0 1 1-,  6 
DIE  7 

1  B 
DD7E0E 

526 

01  FA 

D300 

52/ 

01  EC 

C9 

528 

01  ED 
0 1 F 1 
0  1 F  4 
01E6 
01FA 
01.FC 
0  200 
0202 
0204 
0205 
0209 
0208 
020C 
0200 
020F 


DDCB0FF6 

DD7E0F 

D302 

DDCB405E 

200F 

DDCB0F66 

26  FA 

DB  0  4 

F3 

DDCB0FA6 

1825 

D5 

E5 

FDE5 

DD5E40 


531 

533 
534 
535 
536 
537 
536 
53? 
MO 
541 
5  4  2 


557 
558 

560 
561 

56  2 
563 
564 
565. 
566 
567 
566 
5  69 
570 
571 
5  72 
573 
574 
575 
576 

57  7 
578 
579 
580 
531 
582 
583 
584 
535 
566 
587 
508 


LDIR 

LD 

HL.RBOriOM 

LD 

(HL!  ,0 

LD 

DE,RB01T0M-i  1 

LD 

SCR  TOP  -R80TT0 

LDIR 

RES 

7,  (IX  +  GDR15) 

L  D 

A,  (1XHGDR1S) 

OUT 

<  2  )  ,  A 

LD 

A,0 

LD 

I ,  A 

IM 

EI 

LD 

A,  (IX-IGDR14) 

OUT 

(  0  )  ,  A 

RET 

FET 

STR 

SUB 

IK 

SUB 

POR 

OR 

THE 


CH  0 
EAM 
ROUT 
SPTR 
ROUT 
T 

DATA 
FET 


BTA 
(FR 
I  ME 

IS 

1NE 

TH 

If 
CH 


INS 
OM 
IN 

PO 

E  H 

PU 

TA 


PR 

THE 

RA 

r, 

INT 

osr 
i  1 1 
rus 


I  LOAD  STRUCTURES 
IPOINT  TO  RBOTTOM 
ICLEAR  FIRST  LOCATION 
IPOINT  TO  NEXT  LOCATION 
I  GET  THE  COUNT 
ICLEAR  REFRESH  RAM 
ICLEAR  INIT  STATUS 
I  GET  GDR1.5 
[UPDATE  STATUS 
ICLEAR  A 

ISET  UP  INTERRUPT  VECTOR 
ISET  INTERRUPT  MODE  2 
[ENABLE  INTERRUPTS 
ISET  DISPLAY  MASK 
ISET  DISPLAY  MODE 
; RET  URN 


IMIIIWES  AND  DATA  FROM  THE  INPUT 

FOST  COMPUTER  OR  A  GRAPHICS 
M).  (ETCH  FIRST  SETS  THE  FETCH  STATUS 
FETCH  GETS  DATA  FROM  THE  CURRENT 
LR.  OTHERWISE,  FETCH  SETS  DATA  FROM 

INPUT.  IN  ANY  CASE,  THE  PRIMITIVE 
N  REGISTER  A.  FETCH  FINALLY  CLEARS 


NONE 

MAIN 

LCRAM 

LP  IX 

l.REG 

LSUL 

LSYM 

MOV 

RCRAfl 

RSYN 

SYfl 

UEC: 

UA).  r 

GLTBK 


E 
U 
L 
IX 

I  Y 

PORT     2 
POR  I     4 

GDR15 
SLINK 
SPTR 

8  OFF 


SET 
LD 
OUT 
B I  T 
JR 

b  I  r 

JR 

IN 

DI 

RES 

JR 

PUSH 

PUSH 

PUSH 

ID 


,  (IX 
,  <  IX 
2)  ,  A 
,  (  IX 
7  ,  F  E 
,  (IX 
,FET 
,  (4) 

,  <IX  + 

ETCH2 

E 

L 

Y 

,  (IX+ 


+  GDR 
+  GDR 

i-SPT 
TCH1 
t-GDR 
CHO 


(RF TURNS  DAT  A i 
( TEMPORARY i 
(F'OINIER) 
(POINTER) 

(  P01N  II  R) 
(POINTER.1 
I  INDEX) 
( INDEX) 

(STATUS) 
< INPUT! 

(STATUS! 

(GRAPHICS  SUBROUTINE  LINKAGE) 
(GRAPHICS  SUBROUTINE  POINTER) 
(GRAPHICS  SUBROUTINE  OFFSET) 

15)        ISET  FETCH  FLAG 
IS)        IGET  GDR15 

I  UPDATE  THE  STATUS 
R!         I  TEST  SPTR 

I  JUMP  IF  SUBROUTINE 
15)        :  TEST  INPUT  -INTERRUPT 

UUMP  IF  NO  INTERRUPT 

IGET  DATA  FROM  HOST 

[DISABLE  THE  INTERRUPTS 
15)        IRESET  INPUT  INTERRUPT 

[JUMP  TO  THE  EXIT 

[SAVE  D  AND  E 

ISAVE  H  AND  L 

[SAVE  IY 
R)         IGET  SUB  POINTER 

Listing  2  continued  on  page  288 


GET  AHEAD  START 
ON  TOMORROW  WITH  THE 
SOFTWARE  THAT'S  GOING  PLACES. 
THE  UCSDp-SYSTEM:" 


JULIE  ERWIN,  Director  of  Marketing,  SofTech  Microsystems 


UCSD  p- System  and  UCSD  Pascal  are  trademarks  of  the  Regents  of  the  University  of  California. 
LSI-11  is  a  trademark  of  Digital  Equipment  Corp. 


Our  microcomputer  software 
system's  going  places  for 
good  reasons: 

We're  constantly  expanding 
and  developing  it.  We  started  with 
UCSD  Pascal,™  added  FORTRAN, 
and  we'll  be  introducing  more  in 
the  months  ahead. 

We  offer  a  total  development 
and  execution  environment,  from 
operating  system  and  cross  assemblers 
to  screen  editor. 

We  run  on  most  major  micro- 
processors today:  Z80,  8080, 
8085,  6502,  6800,  6809, 9900  and 
LSI-11™  And  because  the  UCSD 
p-System's  portable,  you  can  be  sure 
that  what  you  invest  in  software 
today  is  a  good  investment  in  tomorrow. 

We're  going  places  and 
gaining  in  popularity  with  microcom- 
puter manufacturers,  applications 
developers,  and  demanding  end  users. 
Get  a  head  start  on  tomorrow  by 
working  with  a  company  that  knows 
how  to  develop  professional 
quality  software,  and  that's  committed 
to  delivering  it. 

Our  system's  available  for 
distribution  licensing  or  for  single -copy 
sales.  With  Pascal,  it  costs  $350 . . . 
with  FORTRAN ,  $400 ...  and  with  both 
languages,  $550.  Documentation 
sets  are  $50.  Phone  orders  are  welcome, 
and  Visa  and  Master  Card  orders 
are  accepted.  Write  or  call  for 
more  details. 

soqhEH 

micRosvsTems 

PI  SUSSIDIflBV  OF  SOFTECH 

9494  Black  Mountain  Road,  San  Diego, 
CA  92126.  (714)  578-6105 
TWIX:  910-335-1594 


Circle  183  on  Inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


287 


Listing  2  continued: 


0212 
0214 
0216 
021ft 
021C 
02  IF 
0222 
0221. 
0227 
022ft 
02213 
022C 
022E 
022E 
0230 
0231 
0235 
02  30 
023A 
023  (J 
02  3  C 


02  W 

023E 
0242 
0245 
0217 
0248 
024B 
024F 
0252 
0254 


CB23 
1600 

FD219010 
ED  19 
FD6E0  0 
F 06601 

odsf:41 

1600 
DD3441 
19 
7£ 

t  df.:i 

El 

01 

F5 

DDCB0FB6 

DD7E0F 

D307 

FB 

I  1 

c<? 


FS 

DDCBOFEE 

DD7E0F 

D302 

F  1 

CD5502 

DDCBOFAE 

007E0F 

D302 

C9 


589 
590 

591 
592 
593 
594 

595 
596 
597 
598 
599 
600 
601 
602 
603 
60', 
605 
606 
60  7 
60S 

60  9 
610 

6 1  1 
612 
613 
614 
615 
616 
617 
613 
619 
620 
621 
622 
623 
624 

626 
627 
628 
629 
630 
631 
632 
6  33 

635 

63  6 
637 
638 
639 
640 

64  1 
642 
643 
64  4 
645 
646 
647 
64  8 
649 
650 
651 
652 
633 
654 
655 
656 
657 
658 
659 
660 
661 
662 
663 


SLA 

E 

i MULTIPLY  BY  TWO 

LD 

D,0 

.-CLEAR  POINTER 

LD 

IY,STRUCT+SLINK 

(LOAD  SLINK  ftDDRESS 

ftDD 

IY.DE 

!ftDD  THE  OFFSET 

1.0 

Lf(IY+0) 

(BET  LOW  BYTE  OF  ENTRY 

LD 

H, (1Y+1  > 

;GET  HIBH  BYTE  OF  ENTR 

LD 

E,  (IXM50FF) 

(GET  OFFSET 

LD 

D,0 

;CLEAR  POINTER 

INC 

(IX+SOFF) 

; INCREMENT  OFFSET 

ftDD 

Kt.BE 

IftDD  OFFSET 

LD 

ft, <HL) 

;GET  DATA  FROM  SUB 

POP 

1.Y 

; RESTORE  IY 

COP 

HI- 

;RESTORE  HL 

['OF' 

DE 

! RESTORE  DE 

PUSH 

AF 

(SAVE  A  AND  F 

RES 

6,  (IX1GDR15) 

(RESET  FETCH  HAG 

LD 

A,  <  IX  K3DFiia> 

(GET  GDR15 

001 

(  2  )  ,  ft 

(UPDATE  THE  STATUS 

EI 

; ENABLE  THE  INTERRRUPT 

f'OF 

AF 

;  RE  ST  ORE  ft  AND  E 

RET 

; RETURN 

EXEC    »***«**** ««***«****»**«*»*««»*** *****s ********** 

EXEC    IS    THE    rami     STEP    IN    EXECUTING    ft    GRftF'HICS 
PRIMITIVE.     EXECUTE    FIRST    SETS    THE    EXECUTE    FLAG,     THEN 
C A L t  S    P R I M ft T  ,     WHICH    J U M P B    TO     I  II F     P R 0 f ' E R    P R I M I  I  1  V E  . 
AFTER    A    RETURN    FROM    THE    PRIMITIVE    ITSELF,    EXEC 
RESETS    THE    EXECUTE    FLAG    AND    RE  I  URNS. 

CALLS  PRIMAT 

CALLED    BY  MAIN 


STRUCTURES 


F 
IX 

PORT 

cdri: 


(TEMPORARY) 
(TEMPORARY) 

< INDEX) 

(STATUS) 


(SAVE  A  AND  F 
(SET  EXECUTE  FLA 
SOFT  GDR15 
; UPDATE  THE  STAT 
;  RE ST  ORE  A  AND  F 
;CALL  PRIMAT 
; RESET  EXECUTE  f 
IGET  THE  STATUS 
; UPDATE  THE  STAT 
IRE  TURN 


LAG 
US 


PUSH  AF 

SET   5,(IX+GDR15> 

LO    A,  (IX-!GDR15> 

OUT   (2), A 

POP   AF 

CALL  PRIMAT 

RES   5,(IX+GDR15) 

LD    A, (  IX  FOUR 15) 

OUT   (2), A 

RET 


GRAPHICS  PRIMITIVES**** 


PRIMAT  mHHHHHHIHSm«mtHH(Hi.-.,i(„>iH 

F'RIMAT  IS  THE  SECOND  STEP  IN  EXECUTING  ft  PRIMITIVE. 
PRIMftl  FIRST  DETERMINES  THE  PRIMITIVE  NUMBER  FROM  THE 
OP  CODE  IN  REGISTER  A,  AND  PUTS  ft  F'OINTER  TO  THIS 
ADDRESS  IN  IY.  HL  IS  THEN  LOADED  WITH  THE  SUBROUTINE 
ADDRESS  ITSELF,  THEN  PRIMAT  JUMPS  TO  THIS  LOCATION. 
NOTE  THAT  A  RETURN  FROM  A  PRIMITIVE  SUBROUTINE 
ACTUALLY  RETURNS  TO  EXEC. 

CALLS  NONE 

CALLED  BY      EXEC 


REGISTERS 


(E'RIMIT  1VE 
(POINTER) 
(POINTER) 
(POINTER! 


0255 
0256 
0250 
025ft 
025C 
025E 
0260 
0262 
D266 
0268 
D7  6B 
026E 


026F 
U271 
0273 
02  77 
(12  79 
027B 
027C 
027E 
0280 
0283 
0286 
02  87 
028A 
028D 
028E 
0290 
0292 
0295 
0296 
029  9 
0  29ft 


5F 

CB3B 

CB3B 

CB3B 

CB3B 

CB23 

1600 

FD216E00 

FD19 

FD6E0  0 

([16  601 

E9 


CB5F 

2014 

FD219010 

E60  7 

CB27 

5F 

16  00 

FD19 

FD6E00 

FD6601 

E9 

217F10 

DD5E42 

1600 

B7 

ED52 

DD4640 

70 

DD4641 

2B 

70 


6,64 

665 
666 
667 

66  8 
669 
670 

672 

6  73 
674 
675 

67  6 
6  77 
678 

6  79 
680 
6S1 

68  3 
6S4 
635 
686 
687 
686 
689 
690 
691 
692 
693 
694 
695 
696 

69  7 
698 
699 
700 
701 
702 
703 
704 
705 
706 

70  7 
708 
709 
7 1 0 
711 
712 
713 
714 
715 
716 
717 
718 
719 

20 
21 
722 
723 
24 
25 
726 
727 
728 

7  30 
731 
732 
733 
7  34 
735 
7  36 
737 
738 


L 
IY 


(POINTER) 
(INDEX) 


STRUCTURES 

UMAT  :  LD 
SRL 
SRI 
SRL 
SRL 
SLA 
LO 
LD 
ADD 
ID 
LD 
.IP 

CALLS  **** 


RENTER   (PRIMITIVE  ENTRY  POINTS) 


t: 

E 

f 

E 

D ,  0 

lY.PENK: 

1  Y  ,  DE 

L,  (  IYhj) 

H,  (1H  1  ) 

(HL) 


(SAVE  A  COPY  OF  A  IN  F 
; SHIFT  THE  OP 
;    CODE  EIGHT  FOUR 
i    BITS  TO  MAIN  IAIN 
(    THE  OFFSET 
(MULTIPLY  BY  TWO 
.'CLEAR  THE  POINT!  R 
;LOAD  RENTER  ADDRESS 
;ftDD  THE  OFFSET  IN  HL 
(LOAD  LOW  BYTE  OF  SUB 
iLOAD  HIGH  BYTE  OF  SUB 
(JUMP  TO  SUBROUTINE 


CALLS  CALEB  A  MICROCOMPUTER  OR  GRAPHICS  SUBROUTINE. 
CALLS  FIRST  DETERMINES  WHAT  TYPE  OF  SUBROUTINE  IS 
BEING  CALLED.  IF  IT  IS  A  MICROCOMPUTER  SUBROUTINE, 
CALLS  CALLS  [HE  PROPER  SUBROUTINE  AS  LINKED  BY 
SLINK.  OTHERWISE,  CALLS  PUSHES  SPTR  AND  SOF!  ON  THE 
GRAPHICS  SUBROUTINE  STACK,  AND  LOADS  THE  NEW  VALUES 
FOR  SPTR  AND  SOEF  .  FUTURE.  DATA  FROM  FETCH  THEN  COMES 
FROM  THIS  GRAPHICS  SUBROUTINE  UNTIL  A  RETN  IS 
EXECUTED. 


CALLS 


CALLED  BY 
REGISTERS 


USER  (INDIRECTLY,  BY 
GUSER  (INDIRECTLY,  BY 
USER  SUBUNDIRf  CTLY) 


DEFAULT ) 
DEFAULT) 


PRIMAT 

(INDIRECTLY) 

A 

(PRIMITIVE  Of 

B 

(TEMPORARY) 

[) 

(TEMPORARY) 

E 

(TEMPORARY) 

H 

(POINTER) 

I.. 

(F'OINTER) 

IX 

( INDEX) 

STRUCTURES 


BIT 

JR 

LD 

AND 

SLA 

LD 

LD 

ADD 

LD 

LO 

JF 

LD 

ID 

I.  D 

OR 

SBC 

LD 

L.D 

[ .[) 

DEC 

LD 


NONE 

GPC  (GRAPHICS  STACK  POIINTER) 

GSTACK  (GRAPHICS  STACK) 

SOFF  (GRftF'HICS  SUBROUTINE  OFFSET) 

SLINK  (GRAPHICS  SUBROUTINE  LINKAGE) 

SPTR  (GRAPHICS  SUBROUTINE  POINTER) 

3, ft  (TEST  T  Bl  I  IN  OP  CODE. 

NZ, CALLS!  (JUMP  IF  GRAPHICS  SUB 

I Y, STRUCT +6L INK     (GET  LINK  BftSE 

0000011  IB  (MASK  ALL  BUT  SUB 

A  ; MULTIPLY  BY  TWO 

E,ft  ;SAVE  ft  IN  E 

D,0  JCLEAR  POINTER 

IY,DE  JADD  OFFSET  TO  IY 

L,  (lY-tO)  i  GET  LOW  ADDRESS 

H,(IYH)  ;GET  HIGH  ADDRESS 

(HL)  (JUMP  TO  SUBROUTINE 

HL, GSTACK  ;LOAD  GSTACK  ADDRESS 

E,  (1X1  GPC)  (GET  GF'C 

0,0  JCLEAR  F'OINTER 

A  ; RESET  THE  CARRY 

HL,DE  (SUBTRACT  POINTER 

B,  (  IXiSPTR)  (LOAD    SPTR 

<HL),B  (PUT    SPTR    ON    GSTACK 

B, (IXHSOFF )  JLOAD    SOEF 

HL  (UPDATE     riTE    POINTER 

(HL)  ,B  ;pl.H     SOFF     ON    GSTACK 

Listing  2  continued  on  page  290 


FOLLOW  THE  LEADER 


DataStar.1"  A  general  purpose  key  to 
disk  data  entry  software  package 
that's  way  ahead  of  the  pack. 

DataStar  has  two  distinct 
phases.  One  allows  you  to  actually 
design  on  the  CRT  the  exact  form 
you  need.  The  other  allows  you  to 
store  and  retrieve  data.  Quickly. 
And  accurately.  So,  when  it  comes 
to  data  entry  and  verification,  go 
with  the  leader. 

Go  with  DataStar. 

WordStar.  The  world  leader  in 
microcomputer  word  processing. 

With  so  many  advanced  features, 
isn't  it  quite  obvious?  WordStar  is 
a  born  leader.  In  fact,  more  than 
seven  thousand  people  have  pur- 
chased WordStar  from  over  300 
dealers  around  the  world.  In  just 
the  first  year!  Proof  positive  that 
WordStar  is  the  word  processing 
software  package  for  Z-80,  8085 
and  8080  microcomputers. 


SuperSort.  It  makes  sorting  so  simple, 
it's  simply  in  a  class  by  itself. 

There  you  are.  With  a  mountain 
of  tedious  tasks.  But  don't  panic. 
Here  comes  SuperSort  to  the 
rescue!  SuperSort  is  faster,  more 
powerful  and  able  to  sort  560 
records  in  a  single  minute.  Hooray 
for  SuperSort.  It  makes  molehills 
out  of  mountains. 

WordMaster.  Its  everything  you've 
ever  wanted  in  a  video  text  editor. 
And  more. 

WordMaster  is  so  powerful  and 
flexible  it  can  actually  double  as 
a  word  processor.  Yet  it  has  all  the 
capabilities  you  need  to  enhance 
your  file  management  needs  on  a 
small  budget.  No  wonder  it's  the  path 
most  programmers  wish  to  take. 

I/O  Master." The  economic  route  to 
quality  printing. 

Now  you  can  get  better  input/ 
output  performance  for  less  money 
because  I/O  Master's  S-100  board 


icroPfo 

Leads  the  way. 


-r ■  i f i i - r-[ r [ i ins  subiwi  in  uha;'iKf  \n  iiIt.il 


MicroPro  International  Corporation    1299  4th  Street,  San  Rafael,  California  94901    Telex  340388 
Dealer/Distributor/O.  E.  M.  inquiries  invited. 


gives  you  the  advantage  of 
using  lower  cost  O.E.M.  letter 
quality  printers.  Plus  you  get  so 
many  extra  features.  Like  two 
fully-buffered  serial  ports,  so  you'll 
never  have  to  worry  about  keystrokes 
and  data  ever  getting  lost  again. 

So,  when  it  comes  to  high  quality/perform- 
ance, look  to  MicroPro  to  lead  the  way. 
And  then  follow,  follow,  follow! 


Listing  2  continued: 


K 

0298 

ESOF 

8 

D29D 

007740 

02A0 

00:5641 

r 

02A4 

DD3442 

02A7 

0034  4  2 

i 

CI  :■■  A  A 

C9 

i 

^ 

M 

JO 

8 

© 

ra 

z 

<r 

r 

02AB 

CB47 

132AD 

2320 

02AF 

FE1D 

0281 

200? 

02B3 

0630 

0285 

21001C 

02B8 

CD9A08 

0286 

E  9 

02EC 

0610 

02BE 

E60C 

02C0 

CB2? 

02C2 

C627 

02C4 

6F 

Q2C5 

2600 

oecy 

11001C 

02CA 

19 

02CB 

CD9AD8 

02CE 

C? 

B2Cf 

FE1C 

0201 

202  7 

B2D3 

CDEOOi 

0206 

E60F 

0208 

6F 

02DV 

2601] 

0  2DB 

11001C 

020  K 

1 9 

0201 

38 

02E0 

5  4 

02E1 

F02100C 

02£5 

FD.19 

0  2E7 

CDED01 

02EA 

FD7700 

0  2t.  D 

t  DEW)) 

02F0 

ED/710 

B2F3 

CDED01 

0  2F6 

FD7720 

02FV 

C9 

02EA 

0601 

02FC 

L60G 

0  2FE 

CB27 

7  4  0 
7  4 1 
742 
74  3 
744 
74S 


74  8 
74? 
750 
751 
752 
753 
754 
755 
756 
757 
758 
75? 
760 
761 
762 
7  63 
764 
76  5 
766 
767 
768 
76  9 
770 
771 
772 
7  73 
7  74 
7  75 
776 
777 
7  78 
7  7  ? 
780 
781 
782 
78  3 
7  84 
735 
786 

78  7 
788 
78? 

7  90 
7?1 
792 

79  3 
794 
795 
796 

79  7 
798 
79? 
800 
301 
807 

80  3 
804 
305 

8  06 
SO  7 
800 
30? 
8 1 0 
311. 
812 
813 


AND 

00001  111 B 

LO 

<  IX  +  SF'TR) 

LB 

(IX+SOFF ) 

]  HC 

<IX*8PC> 

INC 
RF..T 

(IX: BPC) 

jand  all  bui  su 
(UPDATE  SPTR 

J  UPDATE  SOFF 
SINCREFIEKT  GF'C 
J  INCREMENT  BPC 

;R[.  [URN 


LCRAM 


LCRAM  LOADS  TFIE  COLOR  RAMS.  LCRAfi  FIRST  DETERMINES  IF 
A  SINGLE  OR  AIL  COLOR  RAMS  ARE  TO  BE  LOADED.  IE  A 
SINGLE  COLOR  RAM  IS  10  BE  LOADED.  THE  ENTIRE  RAM  OR 
A  SINGLE  ADDRESS  OF  THAT  RAM  IS  TO  BE  LOADED. 
OTHERWISE,  ALL  THREE  COLOR  RAWS  ARE  EITHER  ENTIRELY 
LOADED,  OR  A  SINGLE  ADDRESS  IN  ALL  THREE  IS  LOADED. 


CAL  L  8 


REGISTERS 


FETCH 
GETBLK 


FTTMAT       (INDIRECTLY) 


I/O 


NONE. 


STRUCTURES    CRO 

CR1 

CR2 


BIT 

JR 

CP 

JR 

LD 

LD 

CALL 

RET 

LD 

AND 

SLA 

SLA 

LI) 

LD 

LI) 

ADD 

CALL 

RET 

CP 

JR 

CALL 

AND 

LD 

LD 

LD 

ADD 

LD 

LD 

LD 

ADD 

CALL 

LD 

CALL 

I...D 

CALL 

LD 

RET 

LD 

AND 

SLA 


0,A 

Z,LCRAM1 

000111018 

NZ,LCRAMO 

B,48 

HL.CRQ 

GETBLK 

B ,  1  6 

00001 100B 

A 

A 

L  ,A 

H,0 

BE, CRO 

HL.DE 
GETBLK 

00011100B 

NZ.LCRAM2 

FETCH 

00001 11  IB 

L,  A 

H,0 

DE.CRO 

HL,DE 

E  ,  L 

0 ,  H 

1  Y  ,  0 

IY,DE 

FETCH 

(IYMj)  , 

FETCH 

( IY+1/ 

[  E  rc>! 

(IY*32 


,A 


'i >  .  A 


(PRIMITIVE  C 

(COUNTER) 

(TEMPORARY) 

(TEMPORARY) 

(POINTER) 

(POINTER) 

(INDEX) 


(COLOR  RAM  0! 
(COLOR  RAM  1) 
(COLOR  RAM  2) 


:;ode  ) 


;TEST  SINGLE  BIT 

;JUMP  IF  SINGLE 

;TEST  FOR  ALL 

JJUMP  IF  NOT  ALL 

JSET  COUNT  OF  48  BYTES 

JSET  START  ADDRESS 

J  CAL  I.  GETBLK 

; RETURN 

; SET  C0UN1  OF  16  BYTES 

;mask  OFF  OPCODE 

;SHIFT    OFFSET 

; SHIFT  OFFSET 

J  SAVE.  OFFSET 

JCLEAR  POINTER 

;GET  START  ADDRESS 

;ADD  TO  OFFSET 

JCALL  GETBLK 

; RETURN 

jtest  for  all 
jjump  if  not  all 

;0E.l  OFFSET 

J  MASK  ALL  BUT  OFFSET 

J8AVE.  OFFSET 

JCLEAR  POINTER 

(BET  START  ADDRESS 

;AD!)  TO  OFFSET 

;  REST  ORE.  1  OW  BYTE 

JRESIORE  HIGH  BYTE 

: CLEAR  INDEX 

J  MOVE  POINTER  In  INDEX 

;GET  DATA 


B  ,  1 

000011  GOB 
A 


J  LOAD  DATA  IN 

CRO 

jget  DATA 

J  LOAD  DA  FA  IN 

CR1 

rGET  DATA 

JLOAD  DATA  IN 

CR2 

;return 

FSET  COUNT  OF 

1  BYTE 

J  MASK  ALL  BUT 

OF  FSET 

; SHIFT  OFFSET 

03  00 

CB27 

0302 

6E 

0303 

2600 

0  5  05 

CDED01 

0  308 

F.60F 

0.3  0  A 

85 

0  3  OB 

6f 

030C 

noon: 

0  3  OF 

19 

0310 

CD9A08 

0  3  1 '..', 

C? 

0316 
0318 
031 A 
0  311) 
0321 

0327 
0  329 
032B 
0  3  2D 
032F 
0331 
0333 
0  3  35 
0338 
033A 
0330 
03  3F 
0342 


1E00 
1600 

E.6  0F 

OD/7',3 

DDCB433E 

DDCB',33E 

CB5F 

2821 

CB57 

281? 

CB4F 

20  OE 

CB47 

280  5 

DD7E03 

1808 

0D7E02 

180  3 

CDED01 

CD390A 


B 1 4 
815 
816 
817 
8 1  B 
819 
820 
821 
822 
823 
824 

826 
827 
828 
82? 
830 
831 
832 
833 
834 
835 
836 

83  7 
838 
33? 

84  0 
341 
84  2 
843 
844 

84  6 

84  7 
848 
84? 
850 
851 
852 
853 
854 
855 
856 

85  7 
858 
359 
84  0 
861 
862 
863 

86  4 
865 
366 
867 
368 
869 
8  70 
871 
372 
873 
874 
8  75 
876 
877 
873 
8  79 
88  0 
881 
882 
883 
83  4 
885 
33  6 
887 
838 


SLA 

A 

LD 

L ,  A 

1.  D 

Fl  ,  0 

CALL 

FETCH 

AND 

00001 11  IB 

ADD 

A  ,  1... 

LO 

L,A 

LD 

DE.CRO 

ADD 

HI  ,DE 

CALL 

GETBLK 

RET 

!  shift .offset 

j  save  a  in  l 

jclear  pointer 

ji3et  offset 

j  mask  all  but  offset 

jadd  offset 

jSAVE  of  f  set 

;get  start  address 

;add  offset 

jget  data 


LP  IX 

refer 

PIXEL 

L0ADE 

COLOR 

LPIX 

LOADE 

OTHER 

LOAD 

REOUE 

SET  , 

GRAPH 

X  AND 

THE 

A  TIM 

REFER 

LOADE 

ORIGI 


LOA 
ENC 

AT 

D  I 

0 

FIR 

D 

WIS 
REG 
STE 
AND 
ICE 

Y, 
RIt 
E. 
ENC 
D 
N 


PIXEL  DATA 

LPIX  CAN  1. 

Y,  OR  AN  EN 

EITHER  THE 

AS  SPECIFIC 

CHECKS  TO 

SO,  LPIX  L 

LPIX  SETS 

STED.  NEXT, 

IF  THE  COL 

HE  APF'ROPRI 

ISPLAY  RESI 

ND  PROCEDES 

OF  THE  DIS 

IP  IS  CALLE 

TO  SEE  IF  T 

IX  18  COMF1 


FETCH 
CASE 
CLIP 
POKE 


ACC 
OAD 
1IRE 
PRIM 
D  IN 
SEE 
OADS 
A  FL 

LPI 
OR  D 
ATE 
GTER 

TO 
PLAY 
D  IF 
HAT 
ETED 


OR  1)1 
EITH 

VIE 
ARY 

THE 
IF  0 

THE 
AG  I 
X  DE 
OE 

COLO 
S.  N 
LOAD 

TO 

TFIE 
POIN 

WHE 


m   to  i 

ER  FULL 

WPORT. 

COLOR, 

DATA  W 
NLY  A  S 

APPROP 
F  THERE 
T ERMINE 
NOT  FOI 
R  IS  LO 
EXT,  LP 

THE  FT 
THE  TOP 
RE  IS  A 
T  WILL 
N  X  AND 


HE  GIVEN 

FRAME,  ONE 
THE  PIXELS  ARE. 
THE  SECONDARY 
H1CH  FOLLOWS. 
INGLE  POINT  IS 
R1ATE  COLOR. 

IS  A  FULL  FRAME 
S  WHAT  COLOR  IS 
LOW,  A  FLAG  IS 
ADED  FROM  THE 
IX  CLEARS  BOTH 
XELS  FROM 
,  ONE  LINE  AT 

VIEWPORT 
ACTUALLY  BE 

Y  RECYCLE  TO  THE 


CALLED  BY- 
REGISTERS 


PRIMA!    (INDIRECTLY) 


STRUCTURES 


LD 

LD 

AND 

LD 

SRL 

SRL 

BIT 

JR 

BIT 

JR 

BIT 

JR 

BIT 

JR 

LD 

JR 

LD 

JR 

CALL 

CALL 


LPIXU 
LPIX2: 


A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
IX 

NONE 

8RD0 
GDR1 
GDR2 
G0R3 
REF 

E,  0 
D ,  0 

0  Oil  01  1  11 
(IX+REF) 
<  IX  +  REF) 
(IX+REF) 
3  ,  A 
Z.LPIX4 

Z,  LPIX 3 

1  ,A 

NZ,LFTX1 
U  ,  A 

Z.LPIXO 
A,  (IX-iG 
LPIX 
A,  (IX+G 
LP  IX  2 
FETCH 
POKE 


(PRIMITIVE  OP  CODE,  TEMPORARY) 

(CASE) 

(CLIP  SUCCESS  FLAG) 

(FULL  FRAME  FLAG) 

(COLOR  FOLLOWS  FLAG! 

(INDEX) 


(X) 
( Y  ) 


DR3) 
DR2) 


(PRIMARY  COLOR) 
(SECONDARY  COLOR! 
(REFERENCE ) 

;  CLEAR  COLOR  F01..1  0W8 
; CLEAR  FULL  FRAME 
; CLEAR  OP  CODE 
JSAVE  REFERENCE 
,'  ADJUST  REFERENCE 
; ADJUST  REFERENCE 
JTEST  REFERENCE 
JJUMP  IF  VIEWPORT  REF 
J  TEST  REFERENCE 
JJUMP  IF  FULL  FRAME 
J  TEST  COLOR  FOLLOWS 
JJUMP  IF  COLOR  FOLLOWS 
JTEST  COLOR  TYPE 
JJUMP  IF  PRIMARY  COLOR 
J  LOAD  SECONDARY  COLOR 
JJUMP  AROUND  FETCH 
J  LOAD  PRIMARY  COLOR 
JJUMP  AROUND  FITCH 
JGET  THE  COLOR  DATA 
J  POKE  THE  COLOR  AT  XI 

Listing  2  continued  on  page  292 


Circle  185  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  184  on  inquiry  card. 


APPLE  II  24K  IFR 

SIMULATOR  FLIGHT 

TRAINER 

The  latest  version  of  IFR  SIM  includes  duel  nav  radios  and 
allows  the  pilot  to  actually  practice  IFR  landings  and  naviga- 
tion. Features  a  HIRES  plot  of  the  flight  that  is  flipped  in  & 
out  with  "ESC"  key. 

Smooth  fluid  real-time  response  gives  your  Apple  more 
flight  simulator  power  than  most  10,000  machines  on  the 
market  today. 

$25.00  for  one  on  disk,  three  for  $37.50. 
A  VAILABLE  FROM 

PROGRAMMERS  SOFTWARE 
EXCHANGE 

2110  N  2nd  St 

Cabot  AR  72023 

(501)  843-6037 


TERMINALS  FROM  TRANSNET 


SORCERER  SOFTWARE 


SYSTEM  2  by  Richard  Swannell.  loads  into  the  lop  of  available  RAM  and  becomes  an  integral  part  of  the  8ASIC 
language    All  commands  are  single  keystroke   SYSTEM  2  is  mitten  in  Z80  and  provides  the  following  features; 
1    SCREEN  EDITOR.  Use  the  editor  to  insert,  replace,  delete  or  rubout  characters  in  your  BASIC  program.  Watch  the 
line  change  on  the  screen1  Gone  are  the  days  of  typing  in  a  whole  line  to  change  one  character1 

2.  FUNCTION  KEYS.  SYSTEM  2  allows  12  keys  to  be  programmed  to  represent  one  or  more  characters  or  up  to 
several  lines  of  tent  each1  After  a  key  is  programmed,  by  simply  hitting  key.  all  the  text  is  sent  to  the  processor 
|U3t  as  if  you  typed  it  in  on  the  keyboard'  function  keys  may  be  used  in  all  modes  of  operation,  including  the 
editor    This  feature  is  handy  tor  lengthy  andlor  often  used  commands  and  may  include  multiple  statements. 

3.  RENUMBERING  ROUTINE.  With  a  single  keystroke  your  program  is  renumbered.  Starling  line  number  and 
increment  may  be  changed. 

4.  BASIC  BUFFER  PROTECTOR.  SYSTEM  2  sends  a  ICR1  when  the  BASIC  BUFFER  is  full.  This  prevents  BASIC  from 
crashing. 

5.  PRINTER  DRIVER.  Simply  hit  CTRL  P  to  direct  output  to  Centronics  printer. 

6.  RIVIVAL  ROUTINE.  If  NEW  or  CLOAD  are  typed,  or  RESET  is  hit  by  mistake,  your  program  may  be  recovered.  This 
is  a  safety  device. 

OTHER  FEATURES 

-  RUNSTOP  stops  execution  until  any  other  key  is  hit. 

CLEAR  clears  screen  then  sends  a  ICRI.  Hit  CLEAR  to  start  on  'new  page'. 

-  CTRL  characters  such  as  ESC,  LF  and  CLEAR  don't  return  ?SN  ERROR 

-  RUB  doesn't  require  the  SHIFT  key  to  be  depressed   This  quickens  editing 

-  Includes  a  Real  Time  Random  Number  Generator. 

-  Returns  automatically  to  BASIC  after  TAPE  CRC  ERROR  while  CLOADmg. 

-  Suppresses  premature  CRLF   Normally,  if  RUB  is  used  extensively  while  typing  in  a  BASIC  line,  the  cursor  will 
drop  down  to  the  next  line  before  reaching  the  end  ol  the  current  line   SYSTEM  7  prevents  this. 

-  SYSTEM  2  requires  2K  of  memory  and  is  available  in  8,  1 6,  32  &  48K  versions  $35.50 

RS232  PRINTER  DRIVER.  Requires  250  bytes  ot  memory  and  is  relocatable  Suitable  for  MONITOR,  STANDARD 
BASIC,  WORD  PROCESSOR  PAC  &  DEVELOPMENT  PAC.  Stores  each  character  in  a  buffer  then  sends  the  whole  line 
at  once,  which  solves  timing  problems  $10.00 


COMBINED  SYSTEM  2  b  RS232  PRINTER  DRIVER.  SYSTEM  2  i 
printer  driver 


ilh  the  RS232  printer  driver  instead  ot  Centronics 

mm 


LUNA  LANDER.  Written  in  Z80  and  Baste  and  requiring  1 6K,  LUNA  LANOER  uses  graphics  to  the  full.  Land  you  craft 
on  the  moon  in  real  time.  But  be  careful  to  land  softly,  otherwise  you  will  see  your  LANDER  crumple  before  your  very 
eyes'  $15.00 


SYSTEM  SOFTWARE 

1  Kent  Street,  Bicton,  6157  Australia 


Program  comes  on  cassette  and  includes  lull  documentation.  Specify  size  of 
RAM.  Prices  in  Australian  Dollars.  Add  $2  for  overseas  airmail. 
SORCERER  is  a  trade  mark  of  EXIDY  INC. 


PURCHASE 
PLAN 


12-24  MONTH  FULL 
OWNERSHIP  PLAN 


36  MONTH 
LEASE  PLAN 


PURCHASE  PER  MONTH 

PRICE         12  MPS.     24  MPS.      36  MPS. 


LA36  DECwriter  II    51,695  $162  S  90  $61 

LA34  DECwriter  IV  1,095  105  59  40 

LA34  DECwriter  IV  Forms  Ctrl.  1,295  124  69  47 

LA1 20  DECwriter  III  KSR     ...  2,495  239  140  90 

LA180  DECprinter  I    2,095  200  117  75 

VT100  CRT  DECscope    1,895  182  101  68 

VT132  CRT  DECscope    ....■■■  2,295  220  122  83 


DT80/1  DATAMEDIA  CRT 


191        106 


TI745  Portable  Terminal  ... .  1,595 

TI765  Bubble  Memory  Terminal  2,595 

TI810  RO  Printer    1,895 

TI820  KSR  Printer    2,195 

TI825  KSR  Printer   1,595 


153 
249 
182 
210 
153 


85 
146 
101 
117 

85 


57 
94 
68 
79 
57 


ADM3A  CRT  Terminal   

875 

84 

47 

32 

ADM31  CRT  Terminal    

.      1,450 

139 

78 

53 

ADM42  CRT  Terminal    

.     2,195 

210 

117 

79 

QUME  Letter  Quality  KSR   . . 

.     3,295 

316 

176 

119 

QUME  Letter  Quality  RO   . . . 

.     2,895 

278 

155 

10b 

HAZELTINE  1420  CRT 

945 

91 

51 

34 

HAZELTINE  1500  CRT    

.     1,195 

115 

64 

43 

HAZELTINE  1552  CRT    

.     1,295 

124 

69 

47 

Hewlett-Packard  2621A  CRT 

.     1,495 

144 

80 

54 

Hewlett-Packard  2621 P  CRT 

.     2,650 

254 

142 

96 

FULL  OWNERSHIP  AFTER  12  OR  24  MONTHS 

10%  PURCHASE  OPTION  AFTER  36  MONTHS 

ACCESSORIES  AND  PERIPHERAL  EQUIPMENT 

ACOUSTIC  COUPLERS  • 

MODEMS 

•  THERMAL  PAPEF 

RIBBONS  •  INTERFACE  MODULES  • 

FLOPPY  DISK  UNITS 

PROMPT  DELIVERY 

•  EFFICIENT  SERVICE 

RAIWsNet  corporation 


1945  ROUTE  22 
UNION,  N.J.  07083 


201-688-7800 

TWX  710-985-5485 


GREAT 

FOR 

XMAS 


ATTACHE  STYLE  CASES  FOR  CARRYING  AND  PROTECTING  A  COM- 
PLETE COMPUTER  SET-UP  CONSTRUCTED  OF  THE  HIGHEST  QUALITY 
LUGGAGE  MATERIAL  WITH  SADDLE  STITCHING  WILL  ACCOMMODATE 
EQUIPMENT  IN  A  FULLY  OPERATIONAL  CONFIGURATION  ALONG  WITH 
MANUALS,  WORKING  PAPERS  AND  DISKS.  NEVER  A  NEED  TO  REMOVE 
EQUIPMENT  FROM  CASE  SIMPLY  REMOVE  LID.  CONNECT  POWER  AND 
OPERATE  LID  CAN  BE  REPLACED  AND  LOCKED  FOR  SECURITY  AND 
PROTECTION  WITHOUT  DISCONNECTING  CABLES    FULLY  TESTED 

•  AP101S  Apple  and  Single  Disk  Drive $109 

•  AP102D  Apple  and  Double  Disk  Drive 119 

•  AP103M  Apple,  9  inch  Monitor  and  Double  Drive 129 

•  RS201  TRS-80,  Expansion  Unit  and  Double  Drive 109 

•  RS202  TRS-80  Monitor  and  Accessories 84 

•  P401  Paper  Tiger  Printer 99 

•  P402  Line  Printer  ll-Centronics  730 89 

•  CC90  Matching  Attache  Case 75 


CQHPLITER    CASE    COMPANY 

5650  INDIANA  MOUND  CT     COLUMBUS    OHIO  43213 
|614|  868-9464 


Circle  186  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  187  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


291 


MNEMONIC    NAME 

CALL 

call  subroutine 

LCRAM 

load  color  memory 

LPIX 

load  pixel 

LREG 

load  register 
load  subroutine 

LSUB 

LSYM 

load  symbol 

MOV 

move 

RCRAM 

read  color  memory 

RET 

return 

RPIX 

read  pixel 

RREG 

read  register 

RSUB 

read  subroutine 

RSYM 

read  symbol 

SYM 

display  symbol 

VEC 

draw  a  vector 

WAIT 

wait 

Table  2:  Quick  reference  guide  to  the 

primitives 

defined    for    Micrograph. 

Although  the  minimum  set  of  instruc- 

tions   need 

only    include    a    point- 

positioning 

primitive    and   a    vector- 

drawing  primitive,  added  flexibility  of 

extra  functions  is  used  to  remove  pro- 

cessing burden  from  the  host  system. 

Text  continued  from  page  278: 
features,  such  as  clipping  and  anti- 
aliasing, can  be  readily  implemented 
at  the  primitive  level  without  the  ad- 
dition of  other  instructions.  Such 
features  can  be  treated  as  system 
parameters,  selectable  through  the 
load-register  primitive.  In  figure  5,  a 
sample  of  the  images  produced  by 
these  primitives  is  shown.  (Also  see 
listing  1.) 

One  last  item  that  must  be  dis- 
cussed is  error  processing.  For  any 
implementation  of  the  primitives,  the 
display  processor  must  be  able  to 
detect,  report,  and  possibly  recover 
from  errors  such  as  invalid  primitives 
or  an  error  in  a  called  user 
subroutine.  Of  course,  this  error  pro- 
cessing is  highly  implementation- 
dependent,  but  does  not  affect  the 
structures  of  our  primitives. 
However,  several  of  these  primitives 
can  be  used  to  aid  the  host  computer 
in  error  processing,  such  as  the  read- 
register  and  read-pixel  primitives. 

So  far  the  characteristics  of  interac- 
tive computer-graphics  systems  have 
been  examined,  focusing  on  a  com- 
parison of  the  features  of  calligraphic 
and  raster-scan  display  processors.  A 
set  of  primitive  instructions  for  the 
control  of  a  color  raster-scan  display 
processor  have  been  developed. 

Next  month,  Part  2  of  this  article 
will  concern  the  hardware  design  of 
Micrograph,  a  microprocessor-based 
peripheral  which  implements  these 
primitives.  ■ 


isting  2 

continued: 

a  3  4  5 

C9 

889 

RET 

; RETURN 

03  4  6 

1601 

890 

LP  1X3: 

LD 

0.1 

:SET    EULL    FRAME    FLAG 

one 

1E03 

891 

JR 

LPIX5 

;JUMP    AROUND    CASE 

034A 

CDA007 

892 

LPIX4: 

CALL 

CASE 

;FIND    VIEWPORT    CASE 

0340 

DD360000 

893 

LPIX5: 

LD 

(IX+GDRD) 

,  0 

: CLEAR    X 

03  Si 

DD360100 

894 

LD 

(IX+GDR1) 

,0 

; CLEAR    Y 

0355 

CB4f 

895 

BIT 

1  ,A 

;TEST    COLOR    FOLLOWS 

0  35  7 

20QE 

896 

JR 

NZ.LPIX7 

;JUMP    IF    COLOR    FOLLOWS 

0359 

1E01 

897 

LD 

E,  1 

;SET    COLOR    FLAG 

035B 

CB4  7 

898 

BIT 

0,A 

;TEST    COLOR    TYPE 

B3SD 

2805 

899 

JR 

Z.LPIX6 

;JUMP    If     PRIMARY    COLOR 

Q3SF 

DD7E03 

90  0 

LD 

A, (IX+GDR3) 

;L0AD    SECONDARY    COLOR 

0362 

1603 
DD7E02 

901 
902 

LP  1X6: 

JR 
LD 

LPIX7 

}  y 

;JUMP    TO    LOOP 

0  364 

A,  <  IX+GDR 

JL0AD    PRIMARY    COLOR 

036? 

CB4  3 

903 

LP  1X7: 

BIT 

0,E 

;TEST    COLOR    FOLLOWS 

0369 

2(303 

904 

JR 

NZ.LPIXB 

[JUMP    IF    COLOR    PRESENT 

0  3  6B 

CDED01 

9  05 

CALL 

FETCH 

:GET    DATA 

0361:1 

C  B  4  2 

906 

LPIX8: 

BIT 

0.D 

JTEST    FULL    FRAME 

0  3  70 

2007 

9  07 

JR 

NZ.LPIX9 

iJUMP    If     FULL     FRAME 

0372 

CDEF07 

908 

CALL 

CLIP 

; CHECK    FOR    CLIP 

0  3  75 

CB4  1 

909 

BIT 

0,C 

:TEST    SUCCESS 

037? 

2303 

910 

JR 

Z.LPIX10 

fJUMP    IF    CLIPPED 

0  3  ?  9 

CD390A 

911 

LPIX9: 

CALL 

POKE 

;P0KE    THE    DATA 

B37C 

DD3400 

912 

LPIX10 

.     INC 

(IX+GDR0! 

! INCREMENT    X 

0  3  7F 

20E6 

9 1  3 

JR 

NZ.LPIX7 

;JUMP    IF    X    NOT    ZERO 

0331 

DD3401 

914 

INC 

(IX+GDR1) 

INCREMENT    Y 

0384 

20E1 

9 1 5 

JR 

NZ.LPIX7 

JJUMP    IF    Y    NOT    ZERO 

0386 

C9 

916 
917 

, 

RET 

; RETURN 

918 
919 

;     LREG 

***** 

!  #  fg  $  fe  £%$  $  £9 

¥  *  g  J 2  V  # 

R  ses  if  X  9  *:  t>;  *  *  s  *  3  *  s  *:  *:  *  *  *:■  ?."  ■<:  *  *: 

920 

:     LREG 

LOADS 

A    GRAPHIC 

DISPLAY 

REGISTER.     If     GDR15    IS 

921 

:     SPEC 

FIED, 

A    RESET    OCCURS,    3 

(NCE    THIS    IS    ESSENTIALLY 

922 

:    A    READ    ONLY    REGISTER. 

OTHERWISE,     LREG    SETS    A    POINTER 

923 
924 
925 

:     TO    THE    APPROPRIATE    RE0ISTER 

>ND    READS    IN    THE    DATA. 

:     CALL! 

LETCH 

926 

f 

927 
928 
929 

:     CALLED    BY 

PRIMAT 

(INDIRECTLY) 

;     REG  I! 

■  TERS 

A 

(PRIMITIVE    OP    CODE,     TEMPORARY) 

930 

D 

(TEMPO 

:ARY) 

References 

1.  "Chip  Controls  CRT  Attributes."  £/ec- 
tronics,  June  1978. 

2.  "Chip  Generates  16  Colors."  Elec- 
tronics, November  1978. 

3.  "Color  Displays  to  Pace  Computer 
Graphics  Market."  Mini-Micro  Systems, 
February  1979. 

4.  Computer,  IEEE  Society,  January  1979. 

5.  Computer  Graphics,  SIGGRAPH-ACM, 
June  1978. 

6.  Course  notes  from  "Computer 
Graphics"  taught  by  Dr  Steven  Levine, 
Lawrence  Livermore  Laboratory, 
Anaheim  CA,  October  1978.  They  are 
available  from  Integrated  Computer 
Systems  Inc,  3404  Pico  Blvd,  Santa 
Monica,  CA. 

7.  Crow,  Franklin  W.  "The  Aliasing  Prob- 
lem in  Computer  Generated  Shaded 
Images."  Communications  of  the  ACM, 
November  1977. 

8.  Denning,  P  J.  ACM  Computing  Survey, 
December  1978.  This  is  a  special  issue 
on  graphics  standards. 

9.  James,  L  P.  "An  Engineering  Survey  of 
Graphics  Display  Systems."  An  un- 
published Computer  Science  Corpora- 
tion (Vandenberg  AFB)  document, 
March  1979. 

10.  Judice,  Charles  N.  "Processing  Signals 
for  Digital  Display."  Bell  Laboratory 
Record,  Bell  Telephone  Laboratory, 
March  1976. 

11.  Manufacturers'  literature  from  "Com- 
puter Graphics"  course  taught  by  Dr 
Steven  Levine.  See  reference  6  above. 

12.  Newman,  W,  and  R.  Sproull,  Principles  of 
Interactive    Computer   Graphics.    New 


York:  McGraw-Hill,  1973. 

13.  Schrack,  G  F.  "Current  Literature  in 
Computer,  Graphics  and  Interactive 
Techniques."  Computer  Graphics, 
SIGGRAPH-ACM,  December  1978. 

14.  Walker,  B,  S;  Gurd,  J,  R;  and  Drawnek, 
E,  A.  Interactive  Computer  Graphics. 
New  York:  Crane  Russak,  1973. 


BYTE's  Bugs 


Feeling  Listless 


The  performance  of  a  program  in  the 
Technical  Forum  "Some  More  on  Perfor- 
mance Evaluation,"  by  Carl  Helmers 
(July  1980  BYTE,  page  216)   suffered 
from  one  error  of  substitution  and  one 
error  of  omission. 

Listing  1  on  page  217,  a  program  sub- 
mitted by  Charles  Porter,  should  contain 
two  lines  as  follows: 

105  IF  X  =  L  THEN  120 
110  IF  A(X)  =  0  THEN  100 
ELSE  90 

Thanks  to  Martin  Berman  of  Teaneck, 
New  Jersey,  for  pointing  this  out.B 


292       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Omikron's  Accounting  Software 


Ve  made  our  reputation  with  our  Mapper  sys- 
tems. One  year  ago  we  told  TRS-80  Mod  I 
owners  that  they  could  have  standard  CP/M, 
8"  drives,  compatibility  with  the  Mod  II,  the 
ability  to  transfer  files  from  TRSdos  to  CP/M 
or  run  Newdos80,  the  TRSdos  compatible 
operating  system,  with  8"  and  5"  drives  all 
on  line  at  once.  Most  of  the  readers  said  "too 
good  to  be  true"  and  it  was  only  the  slowly 
spreading  word  (plus  some  excellent  reporting 
—  see  August  Byte  column  by  Jerry  Pournelle) 
that  convinced  you  it  worked. 

Here  we  go  again!  A  field-proven,  fully  In- 
tegrated accounting  package  with  self- 
instructive  documentation  for  $350.00 .  Too 


good  to  be  true  ?  A  General  Ledger  which  has 
been  running  in  the  real  world  long  enough 
to  shake  out  the  bugs  and  has  sold  for  many 
times  our  price  of  $100.00.  Too  good  to  be  true  ? 
Ok,  if  we  have  to,  we  can  wait  for  the  word  to 
spread.  But  just  to  get  the  ball  rolling— let  me 
give  you  the  particulars: 

REQUIREMENTS: 

Computer-  48K  z80/8080 
Printer—  132  columns 
Video  —  80  x  24  or  16  x  64  w/scrolling 
Storage  —  2  disk  units  250  kbytes  each 
Language  —  Microsoft  Basic 
O/S-  CP/M 


BENEFITS:  This  is  not  another  re-write  of  the 
Osborne  packages  but  a  professionally  pro- 
duced and  marketed  set  of  accounting  software 
originally  produced  for  the  Mits/Altair  machine. 
It  has  been  tested  and  debugged  in  actual  use. 
It  comes  with  sample  data  and  a  manual  de- 
signed for  self-instruction.  They  are  thought- 
fully designed,  interactive  programs  with  clear 
prompts  for  ease  of  operation.  Source  code  and 
documentation  to  aid  in  customization  are  also 
included. 

INTERESTED?  Write  or  call  for  our  free  brochure. 
It  may  sound  too  good  to  be  true,  but  we've 
heard  that  before.  Risk  a  stamp— our  Mapper 
customers  were  glad  they  did. 


Too  good  to  be  true? 


*CF/M  is  a  TM  of  Digital  Research.  TRS  80  is  a  TM  of  Tandy  Corporation. 


Circle  188  on  inquiry  card. 


y^qRk  on  tfoe  y  [iqicorp 


presents: 


Aroethc/st 

a  multi-faceted 

text  processing  system 


Amethyst  is  a  user-extensible  text  pro- 
cessing system  based  on  MIT  Emacs   Its 
powerful  yet  easy-to-learn  command  set  pro- 
vides convenient  screen  editing  of  both  „  . 

programs  and  documents    The  Amethyst  command  set  can  be 
added  to  or  modified  to  suit  personal  preferences. 

Amethyst,  first  of  the  Gemstones.  is  a  professionally  crafted 
program  in  a  series  that  represents  a  firm  commitment  to 
user  support.  Ongoing  program  updates,  a  newsletter,  and  a 
telephone  hotline  for  bug  fixes  and  custom  code  modifications,  are 
an  integral  part  of  each  Gemstone  Documentation  for  Amethyst 
includes  not  |ust  multiple  user  s  manuals,  but  also  a  program  logic 
manual  and  related  theoretical  materials 

A 48k  CP  M     with  a  cursor  addressable  display  is  required 
Amethyst  is  written  in  C,  and  the  BDS  C  compiler  is  included 
to  provide  for  simple  reconfiguration  of  the  system    Amethyst  is 
available  on  8"  soft  sector  diskettes,  other  formats  soon 


PO   Box  423 

Arlington,  Massachusetts  02174 

617  498-1387 

CP  M  is  a  registered  trade  mark  of  Digital  Research 


'350 


779  UPPER  CASE/lower  case 
"Conversion  Kit  I" 

Expand  the  capabilities  of  your  779  line  printer  to 
include  word  processing!!  Available  to  all  Centronics 
779  and  TRS  80  Printer  I  owners  is  the  option  of  lower 
case  and  changing  slash  0  zero  to  standard  0.  No  etch 
cuts  or  soldering  needed,  installs  in  minutes  with  a 
screwdriver.  No  program  modification  or  additional 
interface  is  required.  price  $125.00 

UPPER/LOWER  CASE  NOW  AVAILABLE  FOR  THE  FOLLOWING 
CENTRONICS  PRINTERS: 

101AL,  102BL,  306,  500,  501,  503,  700,  701,  702,  703,  780,  781. 

Motor  control  "conversion  kit  ii" 

FOR  ALL  CENTRONICS  779  &  TRS  80  PRINTER  I  UNE  PRINTERS!! 

Our  "Conversion  Kit  II"  Motor  Controller  gives  your  779 
the  ability  to  turn  the  motor  on  and  off  automatically. 
Removes  the  annoying  noise  of  constant  run, 
increasing  the  life  span  of  your  779  and  TRS  80  line 
printer  motor!  No  soldering,  software  or  hardware 
changes  needed,  installs  easily.  price  $95.00 

SAVE!  Buy  Service  Technologies  "Conversion  Kit  I" 
and  "Conversion  Kit  II"  together  for  the  single  price 
of  $199.00 

To  order,  please  send  check  or  money  order  in  the 
proper  amount  to:      r  T~  /     /  (f 

(Jervice  Jecnnoloqies,    Jfnc. 

32  Nightingale  Rd. 

Nashua,  N.H.  03062 

(603)  883-5369 
Visa  and   Master  Charge   accepted   (please   include  signature, 
expiration  date  and  phone  number). 


Circle  189  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  190  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


293 


THE  ORIGINAL  MAGAZINE  FOR 
OWNERS  OF  THE  TRS-80 ™*  MICROCOMPUTER 


SOFTWARE 

FOR  TRS-80 ™ 

OWNERS 


H 


CQIYIPJTRQWICS 

MONTHLY  NEWSMAGAZINE 

Practical  Support  For  Model  I  &  II 


MONTHLY 

NEWSMAGAZINE 

FOR  TRS-80  " 

OWNERS 


PRACTICAL  APPLICATIONS 
BUSINESS 

GAMBLING  •  GAMES 
EDUCATION 
PERSONAL  FINANCE 
BEGINNERS  CORNER 
NEW  PRODUCTS 
SOFTWARE  EXCHANGE 
MARKET  PLACE 
QUESTIONS  AND  ANSWERS 
PROGRAM  PRINTOUTS 
AND  MORE 


Or 


PROGRAMS  AND  ARTICLES  PUBLISHED  IN  OUR  FIRST  12  ISSUES 
INCLUDE  THE  FOLLOWING: 

A  COMPLETE  INCOME  TAX  PROGRAM  (LONG  AND  SHORT  FORM) 

INVENTORY  CONTROL 

STOCK  MARKET  ANALYSIS 

WORD  PROCESSING  PROGRAM  (FOR  DISK  OR  CASSETTE) 

LOWER  CASE  MODIFICATION  FOR  YOUR  VIDEO  MONITOR  OR  PRINTER 

PAYROLL  (FEDERAL  TAX  WITHHOLDING  PROGRAM) 

EXTEND  16  DIGIT  ACCURACY  TO  TRS-80'"  FUNCTIONS  (SUCH  AS 

SQUARE  ROOTS  AND  TRIGONOMETRIC  FUNCTIONS) 

NEW  DISK  DRIVES  FOR  YOUR  TRS-80" 

PRINTER  OPTIONS  AVAILABLE  FOR  YOUR  TRS-80'" 

A  HORSE  SELECTION  SYSTEM***AR1THMETIC  TEACHER 

COMPLETE  MAILING  LIST  PROGRAMS  (BOTH  FOR  DISK  OR  CASSETTE 

SEQUENTIAL  AND  RANDOM  ACCESS) 

RANDOM  SAMPLING***BAR  GRAPH 

CHECKBOOK  MAINTENANCE  PROGRAM 

LEVEL  II  UPDATES***LEVEL  I!  INDEX 

CREDIT  CARD  INFORMATION  STORAGE  FILE 

BEGINNER'S  GUIDE  TO  MACHINE  LANGUAGE  AND  ASSEMBLY 

LANGUAGE 

LINE  RENUMBERING 

AND  CASSETTE  TIPS.  PROGRAM  HINTS.  LATEST  PRODUCTS 

COMING  SOON  (GENERAL  LEDGER.  ACCOUNTS  PAYABLE  AND 

RECEIVABLE.  FORTRAN  80,  FINANCIAL  APPLICATIONS  PACKAGE. 

PROGRAMS  FOR  HOMEOWNERS,  MERGE  TWO  PROGRAMS. 

STATISTICAL  AND  MATHEMATICAL  PROGRAMS  (BOTH 

ELEMENTARY  AND  ADVANCED)  .  .     AND 


WORD  PROCESSING  PROGRAM  (Cassette  or  Disk)  For  writing  letters,  text,  mailing  lists,  etc.,  with  each  new  subscriptions  or  renewal. 

LEVEL  II  RAM  TEST  (Cassette  or  Disk)  Checks  random  access  memory  to  ensure  that  all  memory  locations  are  working  properly. 

DATA  MANAGEMENT  SYSTEM  (Cassette  or  Disk)  Complete  file  management  for  your  TRS-80'" 

CLEANUP  (Cassette  or  Disk)  Fast  action  Maze  Game 

ADVENTURE  (Cassette  or  Disk)  Adventure  #0  by  Scott  Adams  (From  Adventureland  International)         .  trsso'-  is  a  trademark  of  Tandy  CORP 


FJ?E£ 


SEND  FOR  OUR  NEW  48  PAGE  SOFTWARE  CATALOG  (INCLUDING  LISTINGS  OF  HUNDREDS  OF  TRS-80'"  PROGRAMS  AVAILABLE  ON 
CASSETTE  AND  DISKETTE).  $2.00  OR  FREE  WITH  EACH  SUBSCRIPTIONS  OR  SAMPLE  ISSUE. 


•CQMPUTRQNICS 


MATVewVTCAL    Ai=*=\JCATU-gS   SERVICE'" 


50  N.  PASCACK  ROAD 
SPRING  VALLEY,  NEW  YORK  10977 


-jffM  ^  m    HOUR 
S*1    24  ORDER 
LINE 


ONE  YEAR  SUBSCRIPTION       $24 

TWO  YEAR  SUBSCRIPTION      $48 

SAMPLE  OF  LATEST  ISSUE      $4 

START  MY  SUBSCRIPTION  WITH  ISSUE 

(#1  -  July  1978  •  #7  -  January  1979  •  #12  -  June  1979  •  #18  -  January  1980) 


(914)  425-1535 


NEW  TOLL-FREE 

ORDER  LINE 

(OUTSIDE  OF  N.Y.  STATE) 

(800)  431-2818 


NEW  SUBSCRIPTION 


RENEWAL 


NEW!!! 

MOD-II  NEWSLETTER 
$ll/year  Cor  11  issues) 


CREDIT  CARD  NUMBER . 


EXP.  DATE_ 


SIGNATURE. 


NAME 


ADDRESS . 


-CITY_ 


.  STATE- 


_ZIP_ 


'  ADD  $6/YEAR  (CANADA,  MEXICO)  -  ADD  S12/YEAR  AIR  MAIL  -  OUTSIDE  OF  U.S.A.,  CANADA  &  MEXICO  ■ 


294        BYTE  November  1980 


Circle  191  on  inquiry  card. 


H 

& 

E 


CQiriPUTRQWICS 


N 
C. 


...  EVERYTHING  FOR  YOUR  TRS-80  •  •  • 

TRS-80  Is  a  trademark  of  the  Radio  Shack  Division  of  Tandy  Corporation 

•k  All  Orders  processed  within  24-Hours 

-k  30-Day  Money  Back  Guarantee  on  all  Software  (less  a  $3  penalty  for  handling) 

•k  10-Day  Money  Back  Guarantee  on  Disk  Drives  and  Printers  PLUS  120-Days  Free  Service 


%»»»»»»»%»»»»»1i»»%»»»%%%%%»»%»»»»»W»*fc*%»H^*W'**<************'********************<ft**** 


■»»»%»»»»»»»»»»»»»»%»%»«»»»*»»»»»«»»»»' 


T< 
FROM  APPAHAT  NEW  DOS 
35,  40  and  77  Track  Versions  available 
•  NEW  DOS/80  (With  variable  record  length  files, 
chainings  and  many  other  features  $149.95 


LEARNING  LEVEL  II  By  David  Lien 

The  Original  Author  Of  The  Level  Manual 
A  Step  By  Step  approach  to  Learning  Level  II 
especially  geared  to  new  TRS-80'"  Owners 

$15.95 


•  TRS-80'-  DISK  AND  OTHER  MYSTERIES 

Over  100  pages  of  indespensible  information  for 
disk  owners.  Learn  to  recover  information  from 
bad  disks,  how  to  make  Basic  programs  unlistable! 
and  1 2  more  chapters  of  never  published  tips  and 
information.  Written  by  H.C.  Pennington. 
(For  all  Disk  Owners).  $22.50^ 


' 


: 


NEW  SBSG  BUSINESS  SYSTEM  FOR  MODEL  I 
OR  MODEL  II  -  IN  STOCK 

-  General  Ledger 

-  Accounts  Receivable 

-  Accounts  Payable 

-  Payroll 

-  Inventory  Control  with  Invoicing 

Each  module  can  be  operated  individually  or  as  a 

coordinated  SYSTEM.  Turn-Key  error  catching 

operation  for  beginners. 

Complete  manual  and  documentation 

accompany  each  program. 

Minimum  System  requirements  2-Disk  Drives 

for  Model  I.  ,.1-Disk  Drive  for  Model  II 

Each  module  can  be  formatted  to  span  data 

on  up  to  4-Disk  Drives 

Free  30-Day  telephone  consultation 

Call  for  complete  specifications 

Model  I  Version  $125.00  Per  Module 

$495.00  Per  System 
Model  II  Version  $225.00  Per  Module 

$995.00  Per  System 


DATA  MANAGEMENT  SYSTEMS 

-  DMS  replace  index  cards  or  any  data  requiring 
long  lists  of  information. 
TBS  In-Memory  Information  System 
(For  Cassette  Systems)  $39.95 

TBS  Disk  Data  Manager  (Requires  1  or  more  disk 
drives). ..Set  up  fast  random  access,  files  in 
minutes.  Stores  up  to  320K  of  information  on  4 
Drives.  Up  to  10  fields  and  255  characters  per 
record.  Supports  upper  and  lower  case.  RS-232  or 
TRS-232. ..Features  complete  editing  $49.50 

Personal  Software  CCA  Data  Management 
System. ..Completely  user  oriented,  menu  drive. 
130  page  Step  By  Step  Manual. ..Capable  of 
inventor/  control,  sorting  data,  reporting  data  in 
nearly  any  form  (for  reports  and  mailing  labels). 
Sorts  data  by  up  to  10  fields  forzip  code,  balance 
due,  geographic  location  or  whatever.  Prints 
reports  with  subtotals  and  totals  automatically 
calculated.  Fast  random  access  $75.00 


iCQMPJTRQNICS: 

50  N.  PASCACK  ROAD 
SPRING  VALLEY,  NEW  YORK  10977 

HOURS:  9*5 

Monday  thru  Saturday 


FROM  RACET  COMPUTES 

•  REMODEL-PROLOAD  -  Renumbers  program 
lines,  combines  programs.  The  only  renumber 
program  that  will  renumber  the  middle  of  a 
program.  Specify  16K,  32K  or  48K,  Works  with 
Cassette  or  Disk  $34.95 

•  GSF  -  Use  in  your  Basic  Programs  for  Instant 
Sorting  (will  sort  1000  items  in  9  seconds).  Other 
commands  include  Compress  and  Uncompress 
Data.  Duplicate  Memory,  Display  Screen  Controls 
and  Fast  Graphic  Controls  $24.95 
(For  Cassette  or  Disk,  specify  16K.  32K  or  48K) 

•  DOSORT  -  All  GSF.  commands  plus  special 
Multiple  Disk  Sorting  Routines  $34.95 
(Specify  32K  or  48K) 

•  INFINITE  BASIC  -  Adds  70  commands  to  your 
TRS-80'"  including  Instant  Sort.  Matrix 
Commands,  String  Commands,  Left  and  Right 
Justification,  String  Centering,  Simultaneous 
Equations,  Upper  and  Lower  Case  Reverse  and 
more.  (For  Cassette  or  Disk)  $49.95 

•  INFINITE  BUSINESS  (Requires  Infinite  Basic) 
Eliminate  Round-off  error,  127-Digit  Calculation 
Accuracy.  Insert  New  Elements  in  Sorted  Arrays, 
Automatic  Page  Headings,  Footings  and 
Pagination,  Multiple  Precision  Arithmetic  and 
more.  (For  Cassette  or  Disk)  $29.95 

•  COPSYS  -  Copy  Machine  Language  Programs 
(For  Cassette  Only)  $14.95 

•  DSM  (Disk  Sort  Merge)  $75.00 


FROM  SMALL  SYSTEM  SOFTWARE 
RSM-2  Machine  Language  Monitor  $26.95 

RSM-2D  Disk  Version  of  RSM-2  $29.95 

DCV-1  Converts  Machine  Language  Programs 
from  tape  to  disk  $9.95 

AIR  RAID  -  The  ultimate  TRS-80'"  game  converts 
your  TRS-80'"  into  a  real  time  shooting  gallery 

$14.95 
BARRICADE  -  A  fast  pong  style  game  $14.95 
CPM  -  (For  Disk  Only)  $150.00 

TRS-232  INTERFACE  -  Interface  with  Software 
driver  RS-232  printers  to  your  TRS-80'"      $49.95 
TRS-232  FORMATTER  -  Additional  (optional) 
Software  for  TRS-232  owners  Adds  many  printer 
commands  to  your  TRS-80'"  $14.95 

(With  purchase  of  TRS-232)  $9.95 

PENMOD  -  Use  the  Electric  Pencil  with  RS's  lower 
case  modification  $19.95 


FROM  GALACTIC  SOFTWARE 

MAIL  PAC  -  For  Model  I  Disk  Systems 

only  $99.95 

Quick-sorting  full  user  control  over  mailing  list 

from  Galactic  Software. 

STOCK  MARKET  PAC  $99.95 


■M    ~    «       HOUR 

■.S9-\24  °RDER 

LINE 


48-Page  Catalog  $2  FREE  With  Any  Order 

Order  By  Phone  Or  Mail 
Add  $1  Per  Order  For  Shipping  Within  UPS  Areas 

Add  $3  For  COD. 

Add  $3  For  All  Foreign  And  Non-UPS  Shipments 

Add  $3  For  UPS  Blue  Label 

Circle  191  on  inquiry  card. 


(914)  425-1535 


NEW  TOLL-FREE 

ORDER  LINE 

(OUTSIDE  OF  N.Y.  STATE) 

(800)  431-2818 


$99.95 


FROM  THE  BOTTOM  SHELF 

CHECKBOOK  II  (For  Cassette  or  Disk)      $39.95 

SYSTEM  DOCTOR  (A  completediagnosisof  your 

TRS-80'".  Checks  memory,  video,  cassette,  disk, 

ROM.  and  all  other  parts  of  your  system) 

For  Cassette  or  Disk  $28.50 

CHECKBOOK  REGISTER  ACCOUNTING 

SYSTEM  (Requires  2  disk  drives)      $75.00 
LIBRARY  100  -  100  established  business,  game 
and  educational  programs  plus  FREE  Tiny  Pilot 
all  for  $49.50 

BASIC  TOOL  KIT  -  Lists  all  variables,  GOTO's 
and  GOSUB's  in  your  program  $19.80 


SOUNDWARE  -  Adds  sound  to  your  TRS-80'" 
Just  plus  it  in  $29.95 

Sample  programs  included 
TING  TONG  -  Can  be  used  with  Soundware  for  a 
Sound  version  of  pong  $9.95 


VIC  -  The  Carta  Visual  Instructional 

Computer  Program  $19.95 

The  Level  II  16K  Cassette  is  designed  to  teach 
beginners  the  Basics  of  Machine  Language  and 
Assembly  Language  Programming   See  every 
Machine  Language  Instruction  Display  on  your 
video.  VIC  includes  Step  By  Step  55  page  manual 


VISTA  V80  DISK  DRIVE  - 

11  OK  Of  Storage  $395.00 

Add  $29.95  for  Cable  (Free  with  purchase  of 
2-Disk  Drives).  10  day  money  back  guarantee. 


FROM  HOWE  SOFTWARE 
MON-3  -  Machine  Language  Programming  for 
beginners.  MON-3  is  a  complete  System  Monitor 
with  Users  Manual  $39.95 

MON-4  -  Disk  Version  of  MON-3  $49.95 


FROM  MICROSOFT 

•  LEVEL  III  BASIC  $49.95 

Now  Cassette  owners  can  add  Disk  Commands 
to  their  TRS-80'"  without  owning  a  Disk  Drive 

•  MICROSOFT  DISK  ADVENTURE  $29.95 

•  TRSDOS  BASIC  COMPILER  $195.00 

Run  Basic  Programs  up  to  15  times  faster. 


NEC  BUSINESS  QUALITY  PRINTERS 

(For  MOD-I  or  MOD-II)  $2,995.00 


THE  ELECTRIC  PENCIL 

Cassette 

Disk 

MOD-II  Version 


$99.95 
$150.00 
$325.00 


•  HORSE  SELECTOR  II  By  Dr.  Hal  Davis 

The  TRS-80'"  version  updated  for  the  TRS-80'" 
and  originally  reviewed  in  Systems  and 
Methods  $50.00 


•  •  •  EVERYTHING  •  •  • 
FOR  MOD-II  OWNERS 


NEW  MOD-II  NEWSLETTER 

MOD-II  Catalog  Free  w/subscription     $12/year 

MAIL  PAC  $199.95 

MICROSOFT  BASIC  COMPILER 

$395.00 

MICROSOFT  BASIC  $325.00 

GSF  SORT  ROUTINE  $50.00 

CP/M  $170.00 
PEACHTREE  BUSINESS 

SOFTWARE  Call 

WORD  STAR  $495.00 


BYTE  November  1980         295 


A  General  Interpolating 
Graphics  Package  for  the  TRS-80 


D  K  Cohen  and  Devon  Crowe 

Bell  Technical  Operations  Corp 

1050  E  Valencia  Rd 

Tucson  AZ  85706 


If  you've  ever  tried  creating  graph 
displays  with  the  Radio  Shack 
TRS-80,  then  you  know  that  the  task 
can  be  time-consuming.  If  you 
haven't  tried,  you  can  look  forward 
to  the  fact  that  axes  must  be 
generated  and  labelled,  and  data  must 
be  plotted  using  the  awkward  screen 
coordinates  of  Level  II  BASIC.  After 
all  this  has  been  done,  the  resulting 
graph  usually  is  not  continuous,  but 
has  annoying  holes  in  it.  But  don't 
despair,  because  with  our  simple 
package  that  may  be  implemented  as 
a  subroutine  plotting  X,  Y  coordinate 
relations  or  geometric  figures  is  easy. 

In  order  to  use  this  plotting 
package  effectively,  we  suggest  that 
you  work  through  each  example 
given.  After  implementing  this 
package,  TRS-80  users  should  be  able 
to  plot  any  analytic  function  or  set  of 
x  and  corresponding  y  values  effi- 
ciently. This  package  will  allow  you 
to  draw  axes  in  the  correct 
quadrant(s)  and  label  them  with 
chosen  titles.  Tic  marks  displayed  at 
user-determined  intervals,  and  max- 
imum and  minimum  values  displayed 
at  the  correct  positions  on  the  graph 
are  also  easy  to  accomplish. 


Basic  Plotting 

The  plotting  package  is  divided 
into  two  subroutines.  The  inter- 
polating   subroutine    (see    listing    1) 


With  this  package,  TRS-80 
users  should  be  able  to  plot 
any  analytic  function. 


plots  the  functibn  (or  coordinate 
pairs), interpolating  between  the 
points  to  produce  a  continuous  curve. 
The  resulting  curve  may  be  easily 
displayed  at  any  position  of  the 
screen  by  changing  at  most  four 
parameters.  The  program  takes  care 
of  all  scaling  problems,  and 
parameters  are  specified  through  the 
use  of  additional  BASIC  statements 
inserted  at  the  front  of  the 
subroutine. 

To  begin  this  demonstration,  sup- 
pose you  desire  to  plot  the  cost  of 
heating  a  home  as  a  function  of  the 
monthly  period,  displayed  in  the 
upper  right-hand  corner  of  the  screen. 


(This  is  done  to  leave  space  for  other 
information  you  may  desire  to  dis- 
play.) In  order  to  have  the  graph 
confined  to  the  desired  position,  you 
must  specify  a  viewport.  For  this 
plotting  routine,  consider  the  screen 
to  be  divided  into  one  hundred 
horizontal  units  and  forty  vertical 
units.  The  bottom  left  corner  cor- 
responds to  the  screen  coordinate 
(0,0).  (See  figure  1.)  To  display  the 
graph  in  the  right-hand  corner,  the 
horizontal  coordinates  should  be 
from  50  to  100,  and  the  vertical  coor- 
dinates should  be  from  20  to  40. 
Thus,  to  set  this  viewport,  the  reader 
must  specify  the  four  variables,  Zl, 
Z2,  Wl,  W2.  For  this  example  the 
viewport  variables  should  be  set  as 
follows: 


Zl 

= 

100 

Z2 

= 

50 

Wl 

= 

40 

W2 

= 

20 

The  next  step  is  to  set  up  the  x  and 
corresponding  y  arrays.  For  example, 
if  during  the  month  of  January  the 
heating  cost  was  $80,  the  first  x  ele- 
ment would  be  1  (for  the  month)  and 


296        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  192  on  inquiry  card. 


Are  you  ready 

for  the  Z8OOO 
microprocessor 

revolution? 


Zilog's  generation-ahead,  16-bit,  Z8000  is  changing  the 
way  systems  manufacturers  and  designers  think  about 
microprocessing.  Now  there's  an  easy  way  for  you 
to  learn  everything  you  need  to  know  to  stay  on 
top  of  this  powerful  new  technology.  Enroll  today 
in  Zilog's  five-part,  home-study  seminar  on 


Z8000  architecture  for  the  advanced  engineer. 

Learn  the  details  of  the  Z8000's  16-bit  architecture, 
techniques  of  memory  management,  methods  for  inter- 
facing memory  and  peripherals,  proper  handling  of 
interrupts  and  traps,  and  use  of  the  Z8000's  powerful 
instruction  set. 

You  study  at  your  own  pace  at  home.  Each  test  is 
individually  graded  and  critiqued.  Total  cost  for  all  course 
materials  and  tests  is  $39.  Enroll  today.  Become  your 
company's  expert  on  the  micropro- 
cessor technology  of  the  future.  Upon 
completion  of  the  course,  every 
registrant  gets  a  colorful  Captain  Zilog 
T-shirt!  Allow  four  weeks  for 
CHAR  \   receipt  of  your  first  lesson. 

ON 


Zilog 


Training  and  Education  Department  C2 
10460  Bubb  Road,  Cupertino,  CA  95014 

Enroll  me  today  in  the  1980  Zilog  Z8000  Architecture  Course. 

□  Enclosed  is  my  check  or  money  order  for  $39. 

Make  check  payable  to:  Zilog,  Inc. 

Please  charge  my    □  Mastercharge  or    □  Visa  account: 

□□□□[!□□□□□□□□□□□ 

Expiration  date 

SIGNATURE 

MyT-Shirtsizeis:     S     M     L    XL 


Zilog 

An  Affiliate  of  EJ^ON  ENTERPRISES  INC. 
BUSINESS  ADDRESS 

NAME 

COMPANY  NAME 


CITY/STATE/ZIP_ 
TELEPHONE 


BILLING  ADDRESS  (as  shown  on  charge  card .) 
NAME 

COMPANY  NAME 

ADDRESS 


l\    \    CITY/STATE/ZIP 

\    \  Mail  lessons  lo:  □  Business  Address 


D  Billing  Address 


§!!i 

tiHttlDM     Mitt  ait'lea  . 
iBiiS'iiin 


Boards  for S-100  BUS 
from  S.C.  Digital 

"CPUI-Z80" 

Adrauced  Z80A  based  CPU  board 
S219  Assembled  and  Tested 
S149  Kit  '(less  Interrupt) 

Features:  Model  CPUI-Z80 

•  2/4  Mhz  SW  selectable.  •  Built  in  8  Prioritized  Vectored  Interrupts  with  8  possible  levels 

of  Nested  Interrupts  using  powerful  Mode  2  of  Z80.  all  done  in  Hardware,  expandable  with 

external  ckt    •  Vector  Jump  on  RESET,  in  4K  increments.  •  Supports  2K  of  EPROM  (not 

supplied},  DMA,  dynarmic  RAM  refresh  .  .  .  many  more. 

'Kit  comes  with  all  parts  except  chips  connected  to  Interrupts. 


"INTERFACE:  1" 

I/O,  Memory 
Interface  Board 

S229  Assembled  and  Tested 
S169  Kit 


Features:  Model  3SPC 

•  3  Serial  w  RS232C  or  20ma  Current  Loop.  1  Parallel.  •  4K  of  EPROM/ROM  and  4K  of 
RAM  (ROM/RAM  not  supplied}.  •  Built  in  Kansas  City  Standard  Cassette  interface  usable  to 
1200  Baud.  •  Generates  all  popular  baud  rates  up  to  19. 2Kbaud,  including  110&  134.5.  * 
SW  settable  Address.  Baud  Rates.  Ports. 

UNISELECT"   16K  Static  RAM  with  universal  Bank  Select 
Model  16KUS        S255  A  &  T,  with  200  nsec  memory  chips. 

All  boards  meet  IEEE-SI 00  standards.       Fully  socketed,  solder  masks,  gold  contacts,  and 

guaranteed  for  one  full  year.        Kit  guaranteed  parts,  only. 

Delivery:  from  stock  to  72  hours.  Ordering:  You  may  call  for  M.C.,  Visa  or  COD.  orders. 

(Add  $4.00  for  COO.)  Personal  checks  ok.,  but  MO  speeds  shipment.  Takes  7  to  15  days  to 

clear  personal  checks  before  shipping. 

Undamaged  boards  can  be  returned  within  10  days  for  full  refunds.  Illinois  residents  add  5%% 

OEM.  PRICING  AVAILABLE,     DEALER  INQUIRY  INVITED 

S**        p^-       -.       ■        P.O.  Box  906  Phone: 

■  V-».      Uigital        Aurora.  I L  60507    (312)897-7749 


DISK  DRIVE  WOES?  PRINTER  INTERACTION? 

MEMORY  LOSS?   ERRATIC  OPERATION? 

DON'T  BLAME  THE  SOFTWARE! 


ISO-1  ^\J      ISO-2 

Power  Line  Spikes,  Surges  &  Hash  could  be  the  culprit! 
Floppies,  printers,  memory  &  processor  often  interact! 
Our  unique  ISOLATORS  eliminate  equipment  interaction 
AND  curb  damaging  Power  Line  Spikes,  Surges  and  Hash. 
•ISOLATOR  (ISO-1  A)  3  filter  isolated  3-prong  sockets; 
integral  Surge/Spike  Suppression;  1875  W  Maximum  load, 

1  KW  load  any  socket     $56.95 

•ISOLATOR  (ISO-2)  2  filter  isolated  3-prong  socket  banks; 

(6  sockets  total);  integral  Spike/Surge  Suppression; 

1875  W  Max  load,  1  KW  either  bank $56.95 

•SUPER  ISOLATOR  (ISO-3),  similar  to  ISO-1  A 

except  double  filtering  &  Suppression  ....  $85.95 
•ISOLATOR  (ISO-4),  similar  to  ISO  1 A  except 

unit  has  6  individually  filtered  sockets  ....  $96.95 
•ISOLATOR  (ISO-5),  similar  to  ISO-2  except 

unit  has  3  socket  banks.  9  sockets  total  .  .  .  $79.95 
•CIRCUIT  BREAKER,  any  model  (add-CB)  Add  $  7.00 
•CKT  BRKR/SWITCH/PILOT  any  model 

(CBS) Add  $14.00 

Mft  PHONE  ORDERS  1-617-655-1532 

J3E2  Electronic  Specialists,  Inc. 


171  South  Main  Street.  Natick.  Mass.    01760 


Dept.BI 


Circle  193  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  194  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


297 


the  y  element  would  be  80  (for  the 
cost).  Table  1  is  a  hypothetical  set  of 
data  to  be  graphed.  The  arrays  that 
will  contain  the  data  are  AX  and  AY. 
Thus,  for  this  example,  the  following 
BASIC  statements  should  be  inserted 
at  the  beginning  of  the  subroutine: 

FOR  1  =  1  TO  12 

READ  AX(I) 

READ  AY(I) 

NEXT  I 

DATA  1,80,2,90,3,75,4,50,5, 
45,6,45,7,50,8,80, 
9,70,10,65,11,70,12,80 


The_  next  variables  specify  the 
dimension  of  the  arrays  to  be 
graphed.  In  this  example,  the 
minimum  dimension  TI  is  1,  the  max- 
imum dimension  TA  is  12,  and  the 
separation  between  the  array  points 
IN  to  be  plotted  is  1.  (For  example,  if 
you  wanted  to  plot  the  cost  of  heating 
for  every  other  month,  IN  would  be 
2.)  Therefore,  you  must  include  the 
following  BASIC  statements: 

TI  =  1 
TA  =  12 
IN    =       1 


You  can  extend  the  useful- 
ness and  data  entry  speed 
of  your  TRS-80  by  giving  it 
the  graphics  and  menu  ca- 
pabilities of  the  Bit  Pad  One 
digitizer. 

With  the  Bit  Pad  and 
proper  software,  you  can 
generate  schematic  dia- 
grams; describe  sales 
curves  to  your  computer;  enter  alphanu- 
meric information  by  merely  touching 
printed  letters  on  a  menu,  or  enter  order  or 


inventory  information  by 
merely  checking  boxes  on 
printed  forms. 

Bit  Pad  One,  complete 
with  stylus,  specially  de- 
signed plug-in  TRS-80  in- 
terface and  power  supply 
cost  just  slightly  over 
$1,000. 

If  you  don't  have  a  digi- 
tizer, you  are  restricting  your  TRS-80's 
abilities.  We'll  gladly  send  you  a  list  of  dis- 
tributors who  have  the  Bit  Pad  One. 


35  Brentwood  Avenue,  Fairfield, 
CT  06430,  (203)384-1344 

Now,  Bit  Pad  One 
digitizer  makes  it  easy  to  add 
graphics  capability 
to  your  TRS-80! 


H2 

3 

■% 

s 

6 

-f 

8 

|  A|  B 

0 

E 

F 

G 

PfTJ  K  |  f|§f 

h\°. 

P 

a 

R 

S 

T 

U 

v  Jw|  X  |  "^P 

The  final  variable  to  be  specified, 
Si,  determines  the  resolution,  or  how 
well  the  points  are  connected  in  the 
graph.  The  value  of  Si  needed  to 
fully  connect  all  the  points  depends 
strongly  on  the  size  of  the  viewport 
and  the  number  of  array  points  to  be 
plotted.  A  little  experimentation  with 
Si  is  necessary  to  obtain  the  desired 
effect.  For  this  demonstration: 
Si  =  0.01.  After  specifying  the 
parameters  above,  the  user  is  now 
ready  to  run  the  program. 

After  execution,  the  results  should 
be  as  presented  in  figure  2.  To  change 
the  viewport,  simply  change  the 
values  in  the  viewport  variables. 
Figure  3  shows  the  result  when  the 
viewport  variables  are  as  follows: 


Zl 

= 

100 

Z2 

= 

0 

Wl 

= 

40 

W2 

= 

0 

If  you  desire  to  plot  the  cost  of 
heating  for  every  other  month, 
simply  change  IN  to  2.  The  results  of 
this  change  are  shown  in  figure  4. 

Adding  Axes 

At  this  point,  it  would  be  nice  to 
have  the  axes  drawn  and  labeled. 
This  can  be  done  by  specifying  four 
axis  parameters  for  use  by  the  axis- 
drawing  subroutine  in  listing  2.  The 
first  two  parameters  to  be  defined  are 
the  string  variables  AX$  and  AY$, 
which  define  the  x  axis  and  the  y  axis 
labels  respectively.  For  this  example 
the  x  axis  should  be  labeled  "month" 
and  the  y  axis  should  be  labeled 
"cost."  Thus,  the  two  BASIC  state- 
ments that  must  be  executed  are: 


AX$   = 
AYS   = 


"MONTH" 
"    COST" 


The  final  two  parameters  specify 
the  separation  of  the  tic  marks  on  the 
axes.  In  the  example,  set  Cl  (the  x- 
axis  tic-mark -separation  variable)  to 
1  for  a  tic  mark  every  month.  Set  C2 
(the  y-axis  tic-mark-separation 
variable)  to  5  for  a  tic  mark  at  every 
$5.00  increment.  Thus,  the  following 
BASIC  statements  must  be  executed: 

Cl    =1 
C2    =5 

After  execution,  the  results  should  be 

Text  continued  on  page  310 


298        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  tac 


Circle  195  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  196  on  Inquiry  card. 


A  REFURBISHED  ASCII  TERMINAL  OFFERED  FOR  THE  FIRST  TIME 
TO  SMALL  BUSINESS  AND  PERSONAL  COMPUTER  USERS. 

The  AJ  630.  For  just  $ 495  you  can 
have  a  quiet  thermal  printer  terminal. 


Now,  for  less  than  the  price  of  a  good  electric  typewriter,  you 
can  have  your  own  personal  ASCII  printer  terminal. 

And  the  AJ  630  gives  you  a  lot  of  features  for  interactive 
timesharing,  data  entry/retrieval,  and  communications. 

•  A  wide  carriage — up  to  140  characters  per  line 

•  Built-in  lamp  for  paper  illumination 


•  Upper  and  lower  case  characters 

•  128-character  ASCII  code  set 

•  RS-232C  interface 

•  Selectable  110,  1 50,  or  300  bps  operation 

•  Desktop  portability 

•  30-day  warranty  on  parts  and  labor 

Perhaps  best  of  all,  the  AJ  630  is  quiet.  You  can  use  it 
anywhere  without  disturbing  anyone — in  the  office  or  at 
home.  And  we'll  make  it  easy  for  you  to  pay — with  cash, 
certified  check,  Master  Charge,  or  Visa. 

Call  toll-free  for  more  information  and  details  on  our 
10-day  money  back  guarantee:** 

800/538-9721 

California  residents  call  collect  408/263-8520,  Extension  275. 

*  Plus  $50  for  transportation,  terminal  checkout,  and  one  15"  four  hundred  foot  roll  of  paper. 
"Excluding  checkout  charge  of  $50. 


ANDERSON 
JACOBSON 


See  Us  At 

©COfBlBiH't© 
November  18-21.  1980 
Las  Vegas  Convention  Center 


MARKET 
CHARTER, 


rm 


STOCK   CHARTING   ON   YOUR  APPLE   IP 

•  High-Low-Close  Bar  Charts 

•  Simple,  Exponential,  Weighted  Averages 

•  Trendlines,  Resistance  Lines,  etc. 

•  Volume  Charts  with  average  volume 

•  Hard  Copy  of  the  Charts  and  Data 

•  Comparison  Charts 

•  Weekly  &  Daily  Stock  Histories  available 

•  User  Oriented 

•  User  can  create  and  update  the  Data  base 

•  Many  Satisfied  Users 

MARKET  CHARTER  Retails  for  $129.95.  Manual,  Demo 
Diskette  and  Stock  Histories  are  available  separately.  Call  or 
write  for  information  on  new  offering  in  the  financial  field. 

RTR  SOFTWARE,  INC. 

DEPT.  B-11 

1147  BALTIMORE  DR. 

EL  PASO,  TEXAS  79902 

(91 5)  544-4397 

•TRADEMARK  OF  APPLE  COMPUTER,  INC 


master  ''.hargp 


VISA" 


DISCOUNT  PRICES 

Microcomputers  &  Peripherals 

ITS 
YTES 
OOKS 
ARGAINS 


Ik 


•ifc. 


taL 


I  >  hi  on   :.  .»:i 


J 


Cromemco  •  SWTPC  •  Lear-Siegler 

Hazeltine  •  RCA  •  North  Star 
Verbatim  •  Perkin  Elmer  and  others 

Fast,  off  the  shelf  delivery. 
Call  TOLL  FREE  800/523-5355 

MARKETLINE  SYSTEMS,  Inc. 

2337  Philmont  Ave.,  Huntingdon  Valley,  Pa.  19006 
215/947-6670  •  800/523-5355 

Dealer  Inquiries  Invited 


Circle  197  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  198  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


299 


Listing  1:   The  interpolating  subroutine.  Written  in  TRS-80  Level  II  BASIC,  this  routine  plots  points  on  the  screen  from  an  array 
specified  by  the  user.  BASIC  statements  are  inserted  before  the  routine  is  run  to  create  the  desired  array  and,  thus,  the  desired  image. 


10000  Z2  =  Z2  +  25 

10005  W2  =  W2  +  5 

10010  IF  Z2>Z1  THEN  Z3  =  Z2  ELSE  GOTO  10025 

10015  Z2  =  Z1 

10020  Z1=Z3 

10025  IF  W2>W1  THEN  W3  =  W2  ELSE  GOTO  10040 

10030  W2  =  W1 

10035  W1=W3 

10040  Y1  =  -1.0E38 

10045  Y2  =  1.0E38 

10050  X1=Y1 

10055  X2  =  Y2 

10060  FOR  I  =  TI  TO  TA  STEP  IN 

10065  IF  YKAY(I)THEN  Y1=AY(I) 

10070  IF  Y2>AY(I)  THEN  Y2  =  AY(I) 

10075  IFX1<AX(I)THENX1=AX(I) 

10080  IF  X2>AX(I)  THEN  X2  =  AX(I) 


10085  NEXT  I 

10090  IF  Yl  =Y2  THEN  Yl  =  1.001  «Y1 

10095  IF  XI  =X2  THEN  XI  =1.001  -XI 

10100  A  =  (X1-X2)/(Z1-Z2) 

10105  B  =  (Y1-Y2)/(W1-W2) 

10110  FOR  I  =  TI  TO  TA  STEP  IN 

10115  SET((Z2  +  (AX(I)-X2)/A),  (47-((AY(I)-Y2)/B  +  W2))) 

10120  Q  =  I  +  IN 

10125  IF  Q>TA  GOTO  10165 

10130  IF  AX(I)>AX(Q)  THEN  SS=  -SI  ELSE  SS  =  S1 

10135  FOR  J  =  AX(I)TO  AX(Q)  STEP  SS 

10140  IF  AX(I)  =  AX(Q)  THEN  AX(Q)  =  1.001 -AX(Q)  + .0000001 

10145  Y3  =  ((AY(Q) - AY(I))/(AX(Q) - AX(I))WJ - AX(I))  +  AY(I) 

10150  SET((Z2  +  (J-X2)/A),(47-((Y3-Y2)/B  +  W2))) 

10155  NEXT  J 

10160  NEXT  I 

10165  RETURN 


with  new  items 

RS.— We  want  to  be  your  software  source.  Give  us  the  opportunity  to  beat  any  nationally  advertised  price! 


DISK 

WITH 

MANUAL / 


MANUAL 
ONLY 


CP/M 

OSBORNE  11 

General  Ledger* $  59/$20 

Acct  Rec/Acct  Paytt. .  $  59/S20 

Payroll  w/Cost# $  59/$20 

Buy  2  get  1  free $118/$57 

All  3  &  CBASIC2 $199/$71 

DIGITIAL  RESEARCH* 
CP/M-  2.2  Northstar. .  $149/$25 
CP/M'  2.2Cromemco.  $189/$25 
CP/M"  (other versions).  Call 

PL/l-80 Call 

Mac $  85/$15 

Sid $  85/S15 

Z-Sid $  95/S15 

Tex $   70/S15 

Despool $  50/S10 

MICROSOFT 

Basic-80 $289/$30 

Basic  Compiler  .  $324/$30 

Fortran-80  $384/$30 

Cobal-80 $594/$30 

Mil  Math $224/$30 

Mu  Lisp $169/$25 

MICRO  DATA  BASE  SYSTEMS 

HDBS $250/$40 

MDBS $750/$40 

Other Call 

S.O.F.TW.A.R.E. 
Microtax't 

Federal  individual $749/$50 

Federal  corporate. .    .  $249/$25 

State  individual S249/S25 

C.P.A.  Plus 

Client  Write-up $995/$9S 

Time  billing $995/$95 

Business  Plus}. 

General  Ledger $  79/$25 

Accounts  Receivable .  $  79/$25 

Accounts  Payable $  79/S25 

Payroll $  79/S25 

All  4 $269/$99 

SUPERSOFT 

Forth  (8080  or  Z80)H.  .  $129/$25 

Diagnostic  I $  49/$20 

Other  disk  software . . .    less  10% 
SOFTWARE  WORKS 

Adapt $69 

Ratfor $86 


CP/M  users:  specify  disk  systems  and  formats.  Most  formats  available. 


COMPUTER  PATHWAYS 

Pearl  (level  1)# $  99/$25 

Pearl  (level  2)*   .  .  .     $299/$25 
Pearl  (level  3)# $649/$25 

MICROPRO 

Word-Star  (Ver.  2.0). . $349/$40 
Word-Star 

/Mail-Merge $489/$65 

DataStar $279/$35 

Word-Master $1 19/$25 

SuperSortl $199/$25 

SuperSort  II $169/$25 

SuperSort  III $119/$25 


PEACHTREE'H 

General  Ledger} 

Accts  Receivable} 

Accts  Payable  } 

Payroll} 

Inventory?- 

Property  Mgt.} 

C.P.A.  Client  Write-up}. 
Mailing  Address} 


$449/$45 
$449/$45 
$449/$46 
$449/$45 
$499/$45 
$899/$45 
$899/$45 
$399/$45 


STRUCTURED  SYSTEMS 

General  Ledger* $747/$25 

Accts  Receivable*  . . .  $747/$2S 

Accts  Payable* $747/$25 

Payroll* $747/$25 

Inventory  Control*. . . .  $447/$25 

Analyst* $197/$20 

Letteright* $167/$20 

NAD* $  87/$20 

QSORT $  87/S20 

GRAHAM-DORIAN  11 

Most  packages $699/$40 

MICRO-AP 

Selector  1 1 1-C2* $269/$20 

Selector  IV* $469/$35 

S-Basic  Compiler $229/525 

WHITESMITHS 

MC"  Compiler* $600/$30 

Pascal  (incl  "CT $750/$45 

EIDOS  SYSTEMS 

Kiss $299/$26 

Kbasic $529/$50 


OTHER  GOODIES ' 

Tiny  C" $  69/$40 

CBASIC  (Ver  2.06).  .  .  $  89/$1S 

Pascal/Z  (Ver  3) $369/$35 

Pascal/MT  (Ver  3).  .  . .  $224/$30 

Pascal/M $149/$20 

Pascal/UCSD $299/$25 

FMS-80 Call 

CBS $279/$45 

T.I.M.} $369/$45 

Vsort  I $159/$25 

String/80 $   84/S20 

Whatsit? $149/$25 

Postmaster $139/$20 

Textwriterlll $11 1/S20 

Magic  Wand $299/$45 

Spell  Binder $349/$45 

Electric  Pencil  II less  15% 

CPAids less  12% 

Vulcan  D.B.MS           $469/$30 
NevedaCobol $89/$25 

APPLE  II 

MICROSOFT 

Softcard(CP/M) $292 

PERSONAL  SOFTWARE 

Visicalc' $122 

CCA  Data  Mgr $84 

Desktop/Plan $  84 

PEACHTREE'fl 

General  Ledger} $224/$45 

Accts  Receivable} $224/$45 

Accts  Payable} $224/$45 

Payroll} $224/$45 

Inventory} $224/$45 

MUSE 

Super-Text $  84 

Other  disk  software ...    less  10% 

Whatsit? $129 

Apple  PIE $  69 

TRS-80    MODEL  II 

CP/M   2.2 $149 

Electric  Pencil  II less  15% 

TRS-80    MODEL  I 

CP/M  1.4 $129 

CCA  Data  Mgr $  68 


•  -Special  Bonus  with  order  i-Requires  microsoft  BASIC  8—  Supplied  ,n  source  code  #- Requires  CBASIC-2  ©-  Mfgs  Trademark 

Don't  see  it— CALL!  Other  software  requirements— Call 

"LIGHTNIN"  service  available!  Just  call  and  ask  Diana. 

ORDERS  ONLY-CALL  TOLL  FREE   VISA  •  MASTERCHARGE 

1-800-854-2003  ext.  823  •  Calif.  1-800-522-1500  ext.  823 

Overseas  — add  $10  plus  additional  postage  •  Add  $2.50  postage  and  handling  per  each  item  •  California 
residents  add  6%  sales  tax  •  Allow  2  weeks  on  checks,  COD.  ok  •  Prices  subject  to  change  without  notice 
All  items  subject  to  availability  • 

For  information  write  or  call  THE  DISCOUNT  SOFTWARE  GROUP 

1610  Argyle  Ave.,  Bldg.  102  •  Los  Angeles,  CA  90028  •  (213)665-8280 


(100.40) 


(50.  20) 


(0,0)  (100.0) 

Figure  1:  The  TRS-80  video  monitor 
screen  is  partitioned  into  one  hundred 
units  horizontally  and  forty  units  vertical- 
ly. The  bottom  left  corner  of  the  screen 
corresponds  to  the  coordinates  (0,0). 
Coordinates  are  also  used  to  specify 
viewports  in  which  the  plot  is  to  be 
displayed. 


Month 


2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 


Cost($) 

80 
90 
75 
50 
45 
45 
50 
80 
70 
65 
70 
80 


Table  1:  This  hypothetical  set  of  data 
represents  the  heating  costs  incurred  in 
a  house.  Plotted  as  in  figure  2,  the  in- 
formation may  be  limited  to  one  area 
of  the  screen  or  may  use  the  whole 
screen,  as  in  figure  3. 


Circle  200  on  Inquiry  card. 


Dealers:     We  can  supply  you  with  the  industry's  largest  selection  of  quality 
business  systems  in  our .  .  . 

$245  Dealer  Demo  System 


You've  got  the  hardware  . .  .we've  got  the  software  AND  the  total  sales  pack- 
age to  sell  this  rapid-growth  market.  Demonstration  diskettes  and  docu- 
mentation to  quickly  close  the  sale.  (Kit  includes:  14  diskettes,  20  users 
manuals  and  supporting  Promotional  Material.) 

Check  our  complete  list  of  systems.  The  source  code  is  dealer-adaptable 
to  run  on  any  computer  with  disc  capabilities  in  CBASIC  II  (CP/M). 


GL,     A/P,     A/R 
Payroll 

Cash  Receipts/Disb. 
Job  Costing 
Fund  Accounting 
Student  Scheduling 
Mailing  List  Mgmt. 
Medical/Dental 
Office  Scheduler 
Patient  Billing  &  A/R 
Insurance  Forms 


THE  STANDARD 
OF  EXCELLENCE 
IN  BUSINESS 
SYSTEMS  SOFTWARE 


Wholesale  Distribution  System 

Purchasing  &  Receiving 
Inventory  Control 
Invoicing  &  Receivables 
Salesman  Comm.  Reporting 
Backorder  Management 
Manufacturing  Inventory  Control 
Finished  Goods  Inventory  Mgmt. 
Parts  Inventory  Mgmt. 
Parts  Purchasing  &  Receiving 
Bill  of  Material 
Production  Scheduling 


INTERNATIONAL 

IICRO 


IYSTEMS 


For  details  on  our  demo  special,  contact  us  at: 
8425  Quivira  Road,  Lenexa,  Kansas  66215 
Phone:  (913)  888-8330 


LTOCSTM) 


for  CP/M" 


An  enhanced  version  of  FIG**  FORTH  is 
now  available  on  a  CP/M*  disk,  ready  to  run. 
Features  include: 

•  EDITOR,  WITH  STRING  COMMANDS 

•  Z-80/8080  ASSEMBLER 

•  RAPID  DISK  I/O  VIA  INTERLEAVING 

•  8  DISK  BUFFERS,  1024  bytes  each 

The  price  of  $75  includes  documentation 
suitable  for  the  beginning  FORTH 
programmer,  as  well  as  the  experienced  user. 

Available  for  immediate  delivery. 

Send  $75  (includes  shipping  —  CA  residents 

add  6%  sales  tax)  &  your  address  to: 

Mitchell  E.  Timin  Engineering  Co. 

9575  Genesee  Ave. 
San  Diego,  CA   92121 

"TM  Digital  Research 
"FORTH  INTEREST  GROUP 


Desk  Main/Frame 


Desk  Main/Frame 

LOW  COST  &  ATTRACTIVE  STYLING 

•  MAIN/FRAME  INTEGRATED  INTO  FURNITURE  QUALITY  DESK 

•  ELECTRONICS  PACKAGE  SLIDE  MOUNTED  FOR  EASY  ACCESS 

•  SUPPORTS  TWO  8"  FLOPPY  DRIVES  FROM  SEVERAL  MANUFAC- 
TURERS (DRIVES  NOT  INCLUDED) 

•  10  SLOT  MOTHERBOARD  INCLUDES  CONNECTORS 

•  POWER  SUPPLY  FOR  DRIVES  AND  CARDS 

•  DESK  AND  MAIN/FRAME  AVAILABLE  SEPARATELY 

•  MATCHING  PRINTER  DESK  AVAILABLE 


WRITE  OR  CALL  FOR  OUR  BROCHURE  WHICH  INCLUDES 
OUR  APPLICATION  NOTE:  BUILDING  CHEAP  COMPUTERS' 

INTEGRAND 

8474  Ave.  296  •  Visalia,  CA  93277  •  (209)  733-9288 
We  accept  BankAmericard/Visa  and  MasterCharge 


Circle  201  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  202  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


301 


Circle  203  on  inquiry  card. 


"A  triumph  of  cleverness." 

—Parabola 

"Every  few  decades  an  unknown 
author  brings  out  a  book  of 
such  depth,  clarity,  range,  wit, 
beauty  and  originality  that  it  is 
recognized  at  once  as  a  major 
literary  event.  This  is  such  a 

WOrk."  —MARTIN  GARDNER, 

Scientific  Amtritnn 
$8.95,  now  in  paperback,  at  your  bookstore 

, VINTAGE  BOOKS 

A  division  of  Random  House 


"A  rarity— a  first- 
rate  popular  book 
about  modern 
mathematics.' 


»» 


-JEREMY  BERNSTEIN. 
The  New  Yorker 


$4.95,  now  in  paperback, 
at  your  bookstore 

VINTAGE  BOOKS  &*, 

A  division  of  Random  House 


Figure  2:  The  information  of  table  1  is  plotted  as  shown  here.  The  size  and  location  of 
the  viewport  used  were  specified  by  limiting  the  display  area  to  the  bounds  of  50  to  100 
and  20  to  40. 


Figure  3:   The  information  of  table  1  is  plotted  again,  with  the  viewport  bounds  set  at  0 
to  100  and  0  to  40  (whole  screen). 


Figure  4:  The  information,  as  in  table  1,  may  be  condensed  by  changing  the  IN 
variable.  The  integer  value  specified  allows  the  program  to  plot  a  reduced  number  of 
values  from  the  array.  Also,  varying  the  Si  parameter  may  help  to  close  gaps  that  occur 
between  plotting  points. 


302        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  204  on  inquiry  card. 


H0t  Produced  and  widely  used  in  England  and  U.S.A. 
COMPLETE  BUSINESS  PACKAGE 


INCLUDES  EVERYTHING  FROM  INVENTORY  TO  SALES  SUMMARY 

PROMPTS  USER,  VALIDATES  EACH  ENTRY,  MENU  DRIVEN 

Approximately  60-100  entries/Inputs  require  only  2-4  hours  weekly  and  your  entire  business  is  under  control. 


PROGRAMS  ARE  INTEGRATED- 

01  =  ENTER  NAMES/ADDRESS,  ETC 

02  =  ENTER/PRINT  INVOICES 

03  =  ENTER  PURCHASES 

04  =  ENTER  A/C  RECEIVABLES 

05  =  ENTER  A/C  PAYABLES 

06  =  ENTER/UPDATE  INVENTORY 

07  =  ENTER/UPDATE  ORDERS 

08  =  ENTER/UPDATE  BANKS 

09  =  EXAMINE/MONITOR  SALES  LEDGER 

10  =  EXAMINE/MONITOR  PURCHASE  LEDGER 

11  =  EXAMINE/MONITOR  (INCOMPLETE  RECORDS) 

12  =  EXAMINE  PRODUCT  SALES 


SELECT  FUNCTION  BY  NUMBER- 

13=  PRINT  CUSTOMER  STATEMENTS 
14  =  PRINT  SUPPLIER  STATEMENTS 
15=  PRINT  AGENT  STATEMENTS 

16  =  PRINT  TAX  STATEMENTS 

17  =  PRINT  WEEK/MONTH  SALES 

18  =  PRINT  WEEK/MONTH  PURCHASES 
19=  PRINT  YEAR  AUDIT 

20=  PRINT  PROFIT/LOSS  ACCOUNT 

21  =  UPDATE  END  MONTH  FILES  MAINTENANCE 

22  =  PRINT  CASH  FLOW  FORECAST 


23=  ENTER/UPDATE  PAYROLL  (NOT  YET  AVAILABLE) 

24  =  RETURN  TO  BASIC 

WHICH  ONE?  (ENTER  1-24) 

01  SUB.  MENU  EXAMPLE:  01  =  EXAMINE:  02  =  INSERT:  03  =  AMEND:  04  =  DELETE 

05  =  PRINT  (1,2,3):  06  =  NUMERIC  COMBINATIONS:  07  =  SORT 

VERY  FLEXIBLE.  ADD  YOUR  OWN  FUNCTIONS.  EASY  TO  INTEGRATE. 

All  programs  in  BASIC  for  CP/M.  PET.  6800 

G.  W.  COMPUTERS  UTD,  the  producers  of  this  beautiful  package  in  U.K. 


WE  EXPORT  TO  ALL  COUNTRIES: 

BARCLAYCARD  ACCEPTED 
CBM  APPROVED 

CP/M  Ver.  9.00  is  one  16  K  core  program 

using  random  access  releasing  both  drives  for 

data  storage,  and  250  word  vocabulary  is 

translatable  in  any  foreign  language. 

PRICES:  Programs  1  -23  EXC  (1 9,20,22,23)  £475 


CALLERS  BY  APPOINTMENT  ONLY 

89  Bedford  Court  Mansions 

Bedford  Avenue 

London  WC1,  U.K. 


CONTACT  TONY  WINTER  01-636-8210 

BARCLAYCARD  ACCEPTED 

CBM  APPROVED 

CP/M  Ver.  9.00  is  one  16  K  core  program 

using  random  access  releasing  both  drives  for 

data  storage,  and  250  word  vocabulary  is 

translatable  in  any  foreign  language. 

£575  Stock  Integrated  Option  +  £100  Bank  Integrated  Option  +  £100 


AT  LAST! 

Mass  production  prices  on  this  high  quality  software.  Buy  direct  and  save 
50%.  Now,  also  available  for  CBASIC  on  CP  M  and  MBASIC  on  HEATH 
HD0S. 

DATA  BASE  MANAGER  Mod-I  $69    Mod-ll  $199 

You  can  use  it  to  maintain  a  data  base  &  produce  reports  without  any  user 
programming.  Define  file  parameters  &  report  formats  on-line.  Key 
random  access,  fast  multi-key  sort,  field  arith.,  label,  audit  log.  No  time- 
consuming  overlays.  500  happy  users  in  a  year.  Mod-ll  version  has  over 
50  enhancements  including  40  fields  max.  'IDM-M2  is  great!'  -  80-US. 
A/R  Mod-I  $69    Mod-ll  $149 

Invoices,  statements,  aging,  sales  analysis,  credit  checking,  form  input, 
order  entry.  As  opposed  to  most  other  A/R,  ours  can  be  used  by  doctors, 
store  managers,  etc. 

WORD  PROCESSOR  Mod-I  $49    Mod-ll  $49 

Center,  justification,  indentation,  page  numbering.  Mod-I  version  features 
upper/lower  case  without  hardware  change! 

MAILING  LIST  Mod-I    $59    Mod-ll  $99 

The  best!  Compare  and  be  selective.  Form  input,  5-digit  selection  code,  zip 
code  ext.,  sort  any  field,  multiple  labels.  Who  else  offers  a  report  writer? 
INVENTORY  Mod-I  $99    Mod-ll  $149 

Fast,  key  random  access.  Reports  include  order  info,  performance 
summary,  E.O.Q.,  and  user-specified  reports.  Many  have  converted  their 
inventory  system  to  ours! 

GL.  A/R,  A/P.  &  PAYROLL  Mod-ll  $129  each 

Integrated  accounting  package.  ISAM,  100+  page  manual,  Uses 80 column 
screen,  not  64.  A  $1,000  value.  Dual  disk  required. 
L216,  a  cassette  package  of  10  business  programs  for  Level  II  16K 
systems,  $59.  Includes  word  processor  &  data  base.  Poker  game  $19. 
Most  programs  are  on-line,  interactive,  random  access,  bug  free, 
documented  and  delivered  on  disks.  Mod-I  programs  require  32KTRSD0S. 
Don't  let  our  low  prices  fool  you!  If  still  not  convinced,  send  SASE  (28C)  for 
catalog. 


£j. 


MICRO  ARCHITECT.  INC.. 

96  Dothan  St.,  Arlington,  MA  02174 


TEXAS  COMPUTER  SYSTEMS 

.  Radio  /hack 

Authorized  Sales  Center,  OFFERS 

LOWEST  PRICES  on 


TRS-80 


COMPUTERS 

for  the  BEST  prices  on  ALTTKJu^computers^S^urT^ 
Radio  Shack®  computers  are  discounted  10%,  15%  up  to  20%!  CALL  for  the  latest  prices  on  the  items 
you  need,  or  get  advice  from  our  consultant  about  your  specific  needs.  CALL  for  prices  on  the  Model  I,  II, 
and  the  new  Model  III,  Color  Computer  and  Pocket  Computer, 

SAVE  up  to  50%  on  accessories  (non-Radio  Shack®  ),  Need  more  dish  space?  Ask  about  single/DOUBLE 
DENSITY  controller  for  the  Model  I.  300k  in  a  2-disk  system.  5  minute  installation  w/no  modifications. 
Copies  your  single  density  data  to  DOUBLE  for  complete  compatability.  Less  than  $200. 

40  track  disk  drives  $359.  16k  memory  add  on  only  $58  w/instructions.  Specify  computer  or  expansion 
interface.  CALL  for  information  on  Programs  available. 

*  UPS  prepaid  insured  delivery— FREE  except  some  large  items. 

*  No  taxes  on  out-of-state  shipments,  Texas  tes.  Add  5%. 

*  All  merchandise  is  new,  checked  and  guaranteed  by  manufacturer. 

*  Payment  Money  Order.  Cashier's  Check,  Certified  Check.  Personal  Checks  require  3  weeks  to  clear. 
VISA,  MASTERCHARGE-Add  3%. 

*  Prices  subject  to  change  at  any  time. 

*  Delivery  of  merchandise  is  subject  to  availability. 

TCS,  106  East  10th,  Brady,  TX.  76825 

An  Authorized  RADIO  SHACK*   Sales  Center  F701 

TOLL  FREE  Order  Number  1  800  351 1473 

Texas  Residents  915-597-0673 


Circle  205  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  206  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


303 


Circle  207  on  inquiry  card. 


CHOOSE... 

Choose  an  Apple  Desk 


A  compact  bi-level  desk  ideal  for  an  Apple 
computer  system.  This  42"x  31>4"  desk  comes 
with  a  shelf  to  hold  two  Apple  disk  drives.The 
top  shelf  for  your  TV  or  monitor  and  manuals 
can  also  have  an  optional  paper  slot  to  accom- 
odate a  printer. 

Choose  a  Micro  Desk 


Get  your  micro  computer  off  the  desk  top  and 
into  the  micro  shelf  under  our  Designer  Series 
desks.  Suitable  for  the  North  Star,  Dynabyte, 
Vector  Graphics,  and  Altos  computers.  The 
desks  come  in  a  variety  of  sizes  and  colors. 

Choose  a  Mini  Rack 


Mini  racks  and  mini  micro  racks  have  standard 
venting,  cable  cutouts  and  adjustable  RETMA 
rails.  Choose  a  stand  alone  bay  or  a  48",  60", 
or  72"  desk  model  in  a  variety  of  colors  and 
wood  tones.  A  custom  rack  is  available  for  the 
Cromemco. 

Choose  a  Printer  Stand 


The  Universal  printer  stand  fits  the: 

Centronics  700' s  Diablo  1600's  &  2300's 

Dec  LA  34  T.I.  810 &  820 

NEC  Spinwriter  Okidata  Slimline 

Lear  Siegler  300's  Anadex  9500's 

Delivery  in  days  on  over  200  styles  and  colors 
in  stock.  Dealer  inquiries  invited. 

ELECTRONIC  SYSTEMS 

FURNITURE 

COMR4M*d 

17129  S.  Kingsview  Avenue 
Carson,  California  90746 
Telephone:  (213)538-9601 


Figure  5:   The  axis-plotting  subroutine  provides  for  labeling  and  scaling  of  the  display. 
The  user  only  needs  to  specify  increments  for  each  scale. 


Figure  6:  Analytic  functions  such  as  this  may  be  plotted  by  transforming  the  function 
into  an  array.  Usually,  a  short  BASIC  routine  may  be  inserted  before  the  plotting 
routines,  depending  on  the  complexity  of  the  desired  display. 


304       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  208  on  inquiry  card. 


THE  FIRST  TRS-80®  COMPATIBLE  COMPUTER 
WITH  HIGH  DENSITY  COLOR  GRAPHICS ! 


LNW80 

$89.95 


LNW  RESEARCH  introduces  the  LNW80,  a  high  performance  color  computer, 
compatible  with  the  TPS-8E)TM  Model  I.   The  fully  integrated  LNW80  is 
a  sophisticated  and  versatile  microcomputerwith  the  following  powertul 
features. 

COMPATBILtTY 

Hardware  and  software  compatible  to  the  Radio  Shack  TRS-80™  Model  I 
computer,  provides  the  widest  software  base  of  any  microcomputer. 
cassette  interface;  expansion  bus 

DISPLAY 

Quality  upper  and  lower  case  display. 

Two  modes  of  color  graphics,  high  resolution  graphics,  384  x  192  in 
eight  colors  -  higher  density  than  the  Apple  II!  Low  density  color 
graphics  of  128  x  192  are  also  available  in  eight  colors. 

High  resolution  -  black  and  white  graphics  -  of  384  x  192  mixed  with 
text  and  TRS-80™  standard  graphics. 

Reverse  video-  composite  video,  RF  output 
PERFORMANCE 

The  LNW80  utilizes  the  fast  Z-80A  microprocessor  which  executes  at  a 
speed  of  4  MHZ  -  over  twice  the  speed  of  the  TRS-80™  Model  I. 


PC  BOARD 


Ask  about  our  ; 


LNW 
RESEARCH 


Keyboard 
cabinet 


F 


EXTERNAL  DATA  SEPARATOR 


$14.95 

SOME  SOLDERING  REQUIRED 


VIDCO  10O-8O 


LNW  RESEARCH  3183-E  ARWAY  AVE  COSTA  MESA  CA  92626  714-652-8946 


ORDERING  INFORMATION 


SYSTEM 
EXPANSION 
*.ca95  rpCBOARD  *1 

9Q7  |_U5£8  MANUAL  J 

•  SERIAL  RS232C/20mA  I/O 

•  FLOPPY  CONTROLLER 

•  32K    BYTES  MEMORY 

•  PARALLEL  PRINTER  PORT 

•  DUAL  CAS5ETTE  PORT 

•  REAL-TIME  CLOCK 

•  SCREEN  PRINTER  BUS 
ONBOARD  POWER  SUPPLY 
SOFTWARE  COMPATIBLE 
SOLDER  MA5K,SILK  SCREEN 


FOR  SER/OUS  USERS 

OF  8080,  8085,  OR  Z80  COMPUTERS 

PRINTER  WIZARD  —  Now  add  powerful  capabilities  to 
your  printer.  Free  your  computer  for  use  while 
simultaneously  printing  backlogged  output  on  a  first-in- 
first-out  basis.  Transparent  operation  without  noticable 
slowing  of  the  computer.  Allows  continuous  computer  and 
printer  operation  on  programs  having  sporadic  output.  Will 
backlog  up  to  100  pages  when  used  with  a  disk  system. 
Adds  optional  automatic  paging  with  numbers,  adjustable 
margins  on  4  sides,  indented  overflow  lines.  Occupies  less 
than  2V*  K. 


Documentation  only 


EX80M103 
EX80M103D 


$45.00 
$    7.50 


DISASSEMBLER  —  Disassemble  machine  code  into  stan- 
dard source  language.  Modify  or  relocate  existing  programs 
such  as  DOS  or  BASIC  using  your  existing  assembler  (not 
included).  Disassembles  any  8080,  8085,  or  Z80  code,  in- 
cluding embedded  data  blocks  and  "trick"  codes. 
Generates  symbol  and  label  tables. 


Documentation  only 


EX80M217 
EX80M217D 


$75.00 
$12.50 


ALL  EXCOM  products  are  fully  supported  and  warranted  indefinitely  against 
original  defects.  Available  on  single  or  double  density  NORTHSTAR  5Y*" 
diskettes,  300  or  1200  baud  cassettes  (specify).  Washington  residents  add 
5.3%  tax. 

Excom 

P.O.  Box  1802  Bellevue,  Washington  98009  U.S.A. 
Telephone  (206)  641-6577 


MflURO  PROflC  MP-250  PLOTTER  -  1695 
with  L2D  Plot  packoge  -  8795 
with   L2D  h  L3P   packages     -   $950 


b 
□ 

P 

a 

□ 

53 

□ 

VI 

n 

□ 
□ 


M0UR0  PLOTTER  -  Uses  11"  by  6-1/2'  or  any  length  paper. 
Resolution  Is  200  steps  per  Inch.  0.005"  tracking  error. 
Mauro  X-Y  vector  softuare  with  pen  control  Is  ovalable 
for  8080/Z80,  6502,  h  6800  micro-processors.  Requires  5 
bits  of  a  parallel  output  port.  PPPLE,  TRS-80,  and  RS232 
Interfaces  a^s    avalabfe  as  1/0  Options. 

LLRPOC  SOFTWARE  -  Supports  complete  2D  h  perspective  piot- 
inq,  Including  RSC1I  and  curve  generation.  Available  as 
relative  Jinking  libraries  (LflO)  for  MICROSOFT  compatible 
softuare  products,  F0RTR0N-B0 ,  C0B0L--80,  COMPILER  TCIC, 
and  MP.CRO-80  in  CP/M  compatible  files  on  8"  IBM-374G  disks 
or  5-1/4'  N0RTH5TRR  formatted  disks. 

L2C  -  X-Y  plot  package.    Contains  over  20  entries, 
including  CPLC0MP  compatible  calls  such  as  PLOT  and 


L3P  -  Perspective  plat  package.  Contains  over  70 
entries.  Capable  of  ZOOMING,  FLY-SYS,  ANIMATION 
and  much  mare.  (See  self  portrait  above). 

LERPAC   SERVICES       (9163    381-17 17 

624-5  MEDITERRANEAN  WRY   SACRAMENTO   Cfl  958P6 
DEALER  INQUIRIES  ARE  INVITED 


Circle  210  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


305 


7a 


Wl  =  40 
W2=  0 
Zl  =  100 
Z2  =  0 
SI  =  .005 

AX(1)=1 
AX(2)  =  2 
AX(3)  =  2.1 
AX(4)  =  1 
AX(5)  =  0 
AX(6)=1 
AX(7)  =  2.1 


Wl=  40 
W2=  0 
Zl  =  100 
Z2=  0 
SI  =  .005 

AX(1)  =  .5 
AX(2)  =  0 
AX(3)  =  1 
AX(4)  =  .5 
AX(5)  =  1.3 
AX(6)  =  1 
AX(7)  =  0 
AX(8)  =  .2 
AX(9)  =  .8 
AX(10)  =  .98 
AX(11)  =  .6 


AY(1)  =  0 
AY(2)  =  1 
AY(3)  =  2 
AY(4)  =  2 
AY(5)  =  0 
AY(6)  =  0 
AY(7)  =  2 

TI=1 

TA  =  7 
IN  =  1 

GOSUB  10000 


7b 

Wl=  40 

AY(1)  =  0 

W2=    0 

AY(2)  =  0 

Zl  =  100 

AY(3)=1 

Z2=     0 

AY(4)  =  2 

SI  =  .005 

AY(5)  =  2 

AY(6)  =  1 

AX(1)  =  0 

AY(7)  =  0 

AX(2)  =  1 

AY(8)  =  1 

AX(3)  =  2 

AY(9)  =  1 

AX(4)  =  2.3 

AY(10)  =  0 

AX(5)=1.3 

AY(11)  =  1 

AX(6)  =  0.3 

AY(12)  =  2 

AX(7)  =  0 

AX(8)  =  0.3 

TI=1 

AX(9)  =  1.3 

TA=12 

AX(10)  =  1 

IN  =  1 

AX(11)  =  1.3 

AX(12)  =  2.3 

GOSUB  10000 

7c 


AY(1)=1 
AY(2)  =  0 
AY(3)  =  0 
AY(4)=1 
AY(5)  =  .3 
AY(6)  =  0 
AY(7)  =  0 
AY(8)  =  .4 
AY(9)  =  .4 
AY(10)  =  .58 
AY(11)  =  .91 

TI=1 

TA=11 

IN=1 

GOSUB  10000 


Figure  7:   Three-dimensional  displays  are  also  achieved  through  the  transformation  to 
an  array. 


306        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  211  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  212  on  inquiry  card. 


^■■>fyv;vitth!ifv;vfV!«vt«w^vi-ifvrwv  vr-MT-^-v;  w  j 


PET  TWO-WAY  RS-232  and 
PARALLEL  OUTPUT  INTERFACE 


SADI  -  The  microprocessor  based  serial  and  parallel  interface  for  the  Com- 
modore PET.  SADI  allows  you  to  connect  your  PET  to  parallel  and  serial  print- 
ers, CRT's,  modems,  acoustic  couplers,  hard  copy  terminals  and  other  com- 
puters. The  serial  and  paral.el  ports  are  independent  allowing  the  PET  to 
communicate  with  both  peripheral  devices  simultaneously  or  one  at  a  time. 
In  addition,  the  RS-232  device  can  communicate  with  the  parallel  device. 

Special  Features  for  the  PET  interface  include: 

Conversion  to  true  ASCII  both  in  and  out 

Cursor  controls  and  function  characters  specially  printed 

Selectable  reversal  of  upper  and  lower  case 

PET  IEEE  connector  for  daisy  chaining 

Addressable  -  works  with  other  devices 
Special  Features  for  the  serial  interface  include: 

Baud  rate  selectable  from  75  to  9600 

Half  or  full  duplex 

32  character  buffer 

X-ON.  X-OFF  automatically  sent 

Selectable  carriage  return  delay 
Special  Features  for  the  parallel  interface  include: 

Data  strobe  -  either  polarity 

Device  ready  -  either  polarity 

Centronics  compatible 

Complete  with  power  supply,  PET  IEEE  cable,  RS-232  connector,  parallel 
port  connector  and  case.  Assembled  and  tested. 

SADIa  (110VAC)$295 

SADIe  (230VAC)  $325 

Order  direct  or  contact  your  local  computer  store. 


SJUi 


Connecticut 
microcomputer,  Inc. 


34  DEI  MAR  DRIVE,  BROOKFIHD,  CONNECTICUT  06804 
TEL:  1203)775  4135      TWX:  710  4560052 

VISA  AND  M/C  ACCEPTED  ■  SEND  ACCOUNT  NUMBER.  EXPIRATION  DATE  AND  SIGN  ORDER. 

ADD  $3  PER  ORDER  FOR  SHIPPING  &  HANDLING  ■  FOREIGN  ORDERS  ADD  10%  FOR  AIR  POSTAGE. 

MENTION  THIS  MAGAZINE  WITH  YOUR  ORDER  AND  DEDUCT  2%. 


gg833 


■vvvs^vrwwywwvvs<  xv  s^ 


I 
I 
I 
I 

! 

i 
> 
i 

i 
I 
> 
> 
i 
< 
i 
« 
I 
» 

» 
I 

» 

! 
I 
' 
i 

I 
« 


^vvs^TtvvrvwMK  v^s^vrvrsrs^wvrvfyv  ^ 


PET  to  NEC  and 

CENTRONICS 

PRINTER  ADAPTER 

LOWEST  COST  COMPLETE  INTER- 
FACE ON  THE  MARKET 

Simple  to  use  -  low  cost  -  designed  for  NEC  5530  Spin- 
writer  and  Centronics  parallel  printers.  Works  with 
WORDPRO  and  other  software.  Switch  for  upper-lower 
case  conversion  or  upper  case  only. 

Plugs  into  the  PET  and  into  the  printer  -  all  cables  and 
connectors  included  -  extra  IEEE  connector  for  Com- 
modore disk  drives. 

Uses  BASIC  PRINT  statements  -  no  machine  code  need- 
ed. 

Device  address  selectable  -  works  with  other 
peripherals. 

$129  complete  -  compare  to  others  at  $225.  Generous 
dealer  discounts. 

Assembled  and  tested.  Our  usual  30  day  money  back 
trial  period  applies. 

Order  direct  or  contact  your  local  computer  store. 


rCmC 


Connecticut 
microcomputer,  Inc. 

34  DEL  MAR  DRIVE,  BROOKFIHD,  CONNECTICUT  06804 
TEL:  12031 775  4595   TWX:  710  456  0052 

VISA  AND  M/C  ACCEPTED  -  SEND  ACCOUNT  NUMBER,  EXPIRATION  DATE  AND  SIGN  ORDER. 

ADO  S3  PER  ORDER  FOR  SHIPPING  A  HANDLING  -  FOREIGN  ORDERS  ADD  10%  FOR  AIR  POSTAGE. 

MENTION  THIS  MAGAZINE  WITH  YOUR  ORDER  AND  DEDUCT  2%. 


ij-~>*->*->£'>^~>-?->-r~~?-^c-**~^->*-^->s  ■>*•*<■>■;•>*  ■^•^•^•^■^f  ww  w%> 


tVltf  t 


OSBORNE  COMPATABLE 

READY     to     RUM 

BUSINESS     SOFTWARE 


in   CBASICS     or      1 

*  features  * 

Four  Complete  Packages— 

•  General  Ledger 

•  Accounts  Receivable 

•  Accounts  Payable 

■     Payroll  with  Cost  Accounting 
Strong  support  from  Osborne  Manuals 
CBASIC2  runs  under  CP/M  or  under  CDOS 
version  1.07  on  Cromemco  computers 
16K  BASIC  runs  on  Cromemco  computers 
Cursor  addressing  routines  for  Hazeltine, 
Lear  Siegler  and  Cromemco  (Beehive) 
Terminals 

Source  Codes  and  Installation  Instructions 
provided  along  with  disks 
Automatic  Command  Start-up 
Easy  to  apply  to  all  of  your  business  and 
systems  needs 


BK  BASIC 

•  hardware  required  * 

•  One  or  more  8"  or  5"  Floppy  -' 
Drives 

•  CRT  with  cursor  addressing 
■     132-Column  Printer 


$145°° 

per  package 


•  DEALER  INQUIRIES  INVITED  • 


• 
• 
• 

OSBORNE  READY  to  RUN 
BUSINESS  SOFTWARE 

SRI0S(CP/M  for 
Cromemco  computers) 

X-IOSCMP/M  for 
Cromemco  Computers) 

• 
• 
• 

EXPAND(Run  Cromemco 
Software  on  CP/M) 

MICROPL0T(Versatile 
Printer  Graphics) 

DRIVE (Customized 
Printer  Drivers) 

• 

• 
• 
• 

D'JP  3(Disk  Util- 
ities for  Cromemco 

DUP  U  (Double  sided 
DUP  5(Bisk  Util- 
ities for  CP/M 
DUP  f>(Dbl.  Densitv) 

•  Call  or  Write  for  Free  Catalogue  and  More  Information  • 

*  We  will  Customize  any  of  our  programs  at  our  Standard,  Consulting  Rates  * 

w     All    orders   usually   shippr-d    R" 

For    5"    disks    add   :;'20.00    for   downloading 

.\1IC.\H    BO\     418?    HUM   I  (  Rtl  K    (   U  If  .   <H<*i     ph  .  *  1  yVu- 2  7«  1  

MICro  Applications  and  Hardware 
.  CONSULTANTS  and  SOFTWARE  DEVELOPERS   - 


TRS  80-1  TRS  80-11 


TRSDOS® 
NEWDOS® 


TRSDOS® 
P  &  T  CP/M® 


EDITOR 

EDIT  ANY  ASCII  FILE/PROGRAM 
GLOBAL  SEARCH/REPLACE 

ABSOLUTELY  THE  BEST 

7995     9995 

ALSO  AVAILABLE 

Osborne  Accounting  Model  I  &  Model  II  CP/M  Host  program 
for  Model  II  CP/M® 


BYTES  &  FLIGHTS 

7631  ■  St.  Albans  Rd. 

Richmond,  B.C. 

V6Y  2K8 

(604)  278-5200 


Circle  213  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  214  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


307 


Circle  215  on  inquiry  card. 


Looking  for  the 

Lowest  Prices 


We  have  consistently  offered  the 
TRS-80  line  at  savings  up  to  20%, 
which  means  you  can  save  $1 50  to 
$1500  by  buying  directly  from 
Computer  Discount  of  America. 

TRS-80  Model  II,  64K  System, 
with  disc  drive  —  only  $3385.00 

Other  TRS-80  Model  I,  Model  II,  or 
Model  III  computers  and  systems, 
are  in  stock  at  similar  savings. 


Our  savings  are  as  big  on  stands, 
expansion  interfaces,  printers, 
diskettes  —  everything  for  your 
TRS-80  Svstem.  We  ajso  stock  the 
new  TRS-80  Color  Computer,  and 
Pocket  Computer. 

AATARI 

400  -  $499.00 
800  ~  $799.00 


The  computers,  accessories,  and 
hardware  are  brand  new,  in  factory 
sealed  cartons,  ana  carry  a  full 
factory  warranty. 

Most  models  are  in  stock  for  imme- 
diate delivery  (usually  within  7-10 
days),  and  a  price  quote  is  as  near 
as  your  phone. 

So  if  you're  looking  for  the  lowest 
prices  in  the  U.S.A., for  microcom- 
puters and  accessories,  call 
Computer  Discount  of  America, 
West  Milford,  New  Jersey,  07480. 
201-728-8080.  NO  TAX  ON 
OUT-OF-STATE  SHIPMENTS. 


TOLL  FREE  800-526-5313 


Computer 
Discount 

of  America 


Listing  2:  The  axis-creating  subroutine  shown  here  produces  properly  scaled  axes,  com- 
plete with  tic  marks  and  labels,  from  a  set  of  values  specified  by  inserting  BASIC 
statements. 


20000  IFX1<=0  AND  X2<  =0  THEN  A1=Z1  ELSEA1=Z2 

20005  IF  XI >  =0  AND  X2<  =0  THEN  Al  =Z2-X2/A 

20010  FOR  11=0  TO  1 

20015  FOR  Jl=W2TOWl 

20020  SET((A1+I1),(47-J1)) 

20025  NEXT  Jl 

20030  NEXT  II 

20035  IF  Y1<=0AND  Y2<  =0  THEN  Bl  =47-Wl  ELSE  Bl  =47- W2 

20040  IF  Yl>  =0  AND  Y2<  =0  THEN  Bl  =47-W2  +  Y2/B 

20045  FORI3  =  Z2TOZl 

20050  SET(I3,BD 

20055  NEXT  13 

20060  FOR  15  =  1  TO  3  STEP  2 

20065  FOR  J5  =  0TO  1 

20070  FOR  K5  =  X2  TO  XI  STEP  CI 

20075  SET(((K5  -  X2)/A  +  Z2  +  J5),(B1  - 15  +  2)) 

20080  NEXT  K5 

20085  NEXT  J5 

20090  NEXT  15 

20095  FOR  16  =  0  TO  4  STEP  2 

20100  FOR  J6  =  2T03 

20105  FOR  K6  =  Y2  TO  Yl  STEP  C2 

20110  SET((A1+J6-I6),(47-((K6-Y2)/B  +  W2))) 

20115  NEXTK6 

20120  NEXT  J6 

20125  NEXT  16 

20130  IF  BK>47-W2  GOTO  20145 

20135  IF  Al  =Z2-X2/A  THEN  PI  =  -64  ELSE  PI  =64 

20140  IF  Al  =Z2  THEN  P2=  -4  ELSE  P2  =  4 

20145  IF  Bio 47 -Wl  GOTO  20160 

20150  IF  A1=Z2-X2/ATHENF1=64ELSEP1=  -64 

20155  IF  Al  =  Z2  THEN  P2  =  -  4  ELSE  P2  =  4 

20160  IF  Blo47-W2  +  Y2/B  GOTO  20175 

20165  Pl=  -64 

20170  IF  Al=Z2THENP2  =  4ELSEP2=-4 

20175  Z3  =  LEN(AX$) 

20180  Z4  =  (Zl+Z2)/2 

20185  17  =  0 

20190  FOR  J7  =  3  TO  45  STEP  3 

20195  IF  B1<J7  GOTO  20210 

20200  17  =  17  +  64 

20205  NEXT  J7 

20210  Z5  =  Z4/2  +I7-Z3/2 

20215  IF  Al  =Z2-X2/A  AND  Bl  =47-W2  +  Y2/B  THEN  DU  =  5  ELSE  DU  =  0 

20220  PRINT  @  Z5  +  P1+DU,  AX$, 

20225  W3  =  LEN(AY$) 

20230  FOR  18=1  TO  W3 

20235  F$(I8)  =  MID$(AY$,I8,1) 

20240  NEXT  18 

20245  W4  =  (Wl+W2)/2 

20250  J6  =  0 

20255  FOR  K8  =  3  TO  45  STEP  3 

20260  IF  47-W4<K8  GOTO  20275 

20265  J8  =  J8  +  64 

20270  NEXT  K8 

20275  W5  =  J8  +  Al/2-(INT(W3/2)-l)*64 

20280  L8  =  0 

20285  FOR  M8  =  W5  TO  (W5  +  (W3-  1)«64)  STEP  64 

20290  L8  =  L6+1 

20295  PRINT  @  M6  +  P2,F$(L8); 

20300  NEXT  M8 

20305  F1(1)  =  47-W1 

20310  Fl(2)  =  47-W2 

20315  F1(3)  =  B1 

20320  F1(4)  =  B1 

20325  F3(l)  =  AI/2 

20330  F3(2)  =  Al/2 

20335  F3(3)  =  Zl/2 

20340  F3(4)  =  Z2/2 

20345  FOR  19=1  TO  4 

20350  J9  =  0 

20355  FOR  K9  =  3  TO  45  STEP  3 

20360  IF  F1(I9)<K9  GOTO  20375 


Listing  2  continued  on  page  310 


308        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  216  on  inquiry  card. 

^"  RACET  COMPUTES  -j£ 


COMPUTES 
702  PalmrJale   Oranae  CJ  1266s'  -  RACET  computes  -  RACET  SORTS  -  RACET  UTILITIES 

FROM  THE  LEADER  IN  UTILITY  SOFTWARE 

FOR  THE  TRS*  COMPUTERS 

•  •  NEW  ••  HARD/SOFT  DISK  SYSTEM  (MOD  II)  $400 
The  Hard  Disk  Software  Implementation  You  Have  Been  Waiting 
For!!  MOD  II  TRSDOS  compatible  —  using  Cameo  controller 
interface  to  popular  large  hard  disk  fixed/removable  combinations 
(Ampex,  CDC,  Diablo,  Pertec,  Wanco,  etc.).  Compatible  with  your 
existing  programs  —  change  only  'filename'.  All  disk  BASIC  state- 
ments identical.  Improved  dynamic  file  allocation.  A  single  file  can 
be  as  large  as  one  disk  —  20  megabytes  or  larger.  Alternate  mode 
allows  24-million  byte  record  range.  Directory  expandable  to  handle 
thousands  of  files!  Includes  special  XCOPY,  DCS,  and  SZAP 
utilities  for  use  with  hard  or  soft  disks.  Parameterized  FORMAT 
utility  includes  options  for  specifying  the  number  of  sectors/track, 
platters/drive,  sectors/granule,  sectors/directory,  etc. 

•  •  NEW  **  BASIC  LINK  FACILITY 'BLINK'  $25  Mod  I 
(ModlMin32K1-disk)  $50  Mod  II 
Link  from  one  BASIC  program  to  another  saving  all  variables!  The 
new  program  can  be  smaller  or  larger  than  the  original  program  in 
memory.  The  chained  program  may  either  replace  the  original 
program,  or  can  be  merged  by  statement  number.  The  statement 
number  where  the  chained  program  execution  is  to  begin  may  be 
specified! 

INFINITE  BASIC  (Mod  I  Tape  or  Disk)  $49.95 

Extends  Level  II  BASIC  with  complete  MATRIX  functions  and  50 
more  string  functions.  Includes  RACET  machine  language  sorts! 
Sort  1000  elements  in  9  seconds! !  Select  only  functions  you  want 
to  optimize  memory  usage. 

INFINITE  BUSINESS  (Requires  Infinite  BASIC)  $29.95 

Complete  printer  pagination  controls  —  auto  headers,  footers, 
page  numbers.  Packed  decimal  arithmetic  —  127  digit  accuracy 
+  ,  -,  *,  /.  Binary  search  of  sorted  and  unsorted  arrays.  Hash  codes. 
BASIC  CROSS  REFERENCE  UTILITY  (Mod  II  64K)  $50.00 

SEEK  and  FIND  functions  for  Variables,  Line  Numbers,  Strings, 
Keywords.  'All'  options  available  for  line  numbers  and  variables. 
Load  from  BASIC  —  Call  with  'CTRL'R.  Output  to  screen  or  printer! 


■  RACET  computes  —  RACET  SORTS  —  RACET  UTILITIES  —  RACET  computes  —    RACET 

DSM  $75.00  Mod  I,  $1 50.00  Mod  II 

(Mod  I  Min  32K  2-drive  system.  Mod  II 64K  1-drive) 

Disk  Sort/Merge  for  RANDOM  files.  All  machine  language  stand- 
alone package  for  sorting  speed.  Establish  sort  specification  in 
simple  BASIC  command  File.  Execute  from  DOS.  Only  operator 
action  to  sort  is  to  change  diskettes  when  requested!  Handles 
multiple  diskette  files!  Super  fast  sort  times  —  improved  disk  I/O 
times  make  this  the  fastest  Disk  Sort/Merge  available  on  Mod  I  or 
Mod  II. 

UTILITY  PACKAGE  (Mod  II  64K)  $150.00 

Important  enhancements  to  the  Mod  II.  The  file  recovery  capabilities 
alone  will  pay  for  the  package  in  even  one  application!  Fully 
documented  in  124  page  manual!  XHIT,  XGAT,  XCOPY  and 
superzap  are  used  to  reconstruct  or  recover  data  from  bad 
diskettes!  XCOPY  provides  multi-file  copies,  'wild-card'  mask 
select,  absolute  sector  mode  and  other  features.  SUPERZAP 
allows  examine/change  any  sector  on  diskette  include  track-0,  and 
absolute  disk  backup/copy  with  I/O  recovery.  DCS  builds  con- 
solidated directories  from  multiple  diskettes  into  a  single  display 
or  listing  sorted  by  disk  name  or  file  name  plus  more.  Change 
Disk  ID  with  DISKID.  XCREATE  preallocates  files  and  sets  'LOF' 
to  end  to  speed  disk  accesses.  DEBUGII  adds  single  step,  trace, 
subroutine  calling,  program  looping,  dynamic  disassembly  and  more!! 

DEVELOPMENT  PACKAGE  (Mod  II  64K)  $125.00 

Includes  RACET  machine  language  SUPERZAP,  Apparat  Dis- 
assembler, and  Model  II  interface  to  the  Microsoft  'Editor 
Assembler  Plus'  software  package  including  uploading  services 
and  patches  for  Disk  I/O.  Purchase  price  includes  complete  copy 
of  Editor  Assembler  +  and  documentation  for  Mod  I.  Assemble 
directly  into  memory,  MACRO  facility,  save  all  or  portions  of 
source  to  disk,  dynamic  debug  facility  (ZBUG),  extended  editor 
commands. 

COMPROC(Modl  —  Disk  only)  $19.95 

Command  Processor.  Auto  your  disk  to  perform  any  sequence  of 
instructions  that  you  can  give  from  the  keyboard.  DIR,  FREE, 
pause,  wait  for  user  input,  BASIC,  NO  OF  FILES  and  MEM  SIZe| 
RUN  program,  respond  to  input  statements,  BREAK,  return  to 


Circle  reader  request  for  free  24-page  catalog. 


DOS,  etc.  Includes  lowercase  driver,  debounce.  screenprint! 


I 


DEALER  INQUIRIES   INVITED 


RACET  SORTS  —  RACET  UTILITIES  —  RACET  computes  -  RACET  SORTS 


CHECK.  VISA.  M/C.'C.O  D..  PURCHASE  OROEfl     "TRS  80  is  a  registered  trademark  ot 
Telephone  Orders  Accepted  (714)  G37-S016  Tandy  Corporation 

•  RACET  UTILITIES  —  RACET  computes  -  RACET  SORTS  -  RACET  UTILITIES  -  RACET  computes  - 


r 


THE  PASCAL  DATABASE 
written  in  UCSD  PASCAL 


> 


Software  ahead  of  its  time 
available  now  for  the  APPLE'  COMPUTER 
Create  a  library  of  information  at  your  fingertips 

Full  database  power.    Unlimited  applications  for  such  diverse 
data   as:   mailing  lists,  personal  and  business  accounting, 
inventory,  job   estimates,   sales   analyses   and    property 
management. 

THE  PASCAL  DATABASE  is  easy  to  use. 
Menu  driven.  Clear  screen  instructions  enable  even  the 
inexperienced  user  to  operate  THE  PASCAL  DATABASE. 

THE  PASCAL  DATABASE  has  advanced  features: 

•  On-line  interaction.  Update,  search  and  traversedatabasefiles... 
sort  on  multiple  fields...  maintain  records  in  several  sorted  orders. 

•  Screen  formatting  ...you  design  the  layout  of  your  files. 

•  Immediate  and  automatic  indexing  of  information  at  data  entry, 
t  User  definable  data  description  gives  you  ultimate  flexibility... 

you  define  file,  record  and  field  names 

•  Generates  custom,  easy  to  read  reports.  Easy  storage  and 
retrieval  in  report  library. 

•  Password  protection  for  individual  files 

•  Up  to  1024  bytes  per  record. 

Soon  available  on  8"  IBM  3740  floppies  and  other  UCSD  Pascal  systems. 
Source  license  available.    Dealer  inquiries  invited. 

OTHE  PASCAL  DATABASE      Special  introductory  price   $400.00 
Shipped  on  floppy  disks.  Includes  complete  documentation  and 


< 


sample  datafiles. 


Arizona  residents  please  add  6%sales  tax 


O  Manual  only  $25.00     Master  Charge    Bank  Amencard   Check  or  Money  Order 

(Refundable  with  system  purchase  within  90  days) 


ARIZONA  COMPUTER 
SYSTEMS,  INC. 

P.O.  Box  125  Jerome,  Arizona  86331 
(602)-634-7301   9am  ■  4  pm  Mon.-Fn. 

'"  Apple  is  a  registered  trademark  of  Apple  Computer,  Inc. 
"  UCSD  PASCAL  is  a  trademark  of  the  Regents  of  the  University  of  California 


< 


SPEECH  RECOGNITION 


NOW  TALK  TO  YOUR: 

PET,  TRS-80  (Lll) 
AIM-65  and  SORCERER 

NEW  COGNIVOX  SR-100  has  32  word  (or  short  phrase)  vocabulary 
(AIM-65  with  4K  RAM,  16  words).  Up  to  98%  recognition  rate. 
Breakthrough  price  of  only  $119  includes  microphone,  cassette  with 
software  and  manual.  Version  for  the  TRS-80  (VIO-332)  costs  $149  but 
also  has  32  word  speech  output  and  music  capability,  includes  all  above 
plus  speaker/amplifier.  For  the  Sorcerer,  in  addition  to  SR-100,  we  offer 
COGNIVOX  VIO-132  which  includes  speech  output  and  music  and 
extensive  software  and  costs  $1 79.  Please  add  $3  for  shipping  in  the  US, 
Calif,  add  6%  tax.  Foreign  orders  welcome,  add  10%  for  processing  and 
shipping  by  air  When  ordering,  please  specify  make,  model  and  memory 
size  of  your  computer, 

VOICETEK 

Dept.  B,  P.O.  Box  388,  Goleta,  Ca  93017 


Circle  217  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  218  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


309 


-2  THEN  Dl$  =  "#. mill" 

-2THEND2$  =  "#.##[[[[" 


Listing  2  continued: 

20365  J9  =  19  +  64 

20370  NEXT  K9 

20375  F2(I9)=J9  +  F3(I9) 

20380  NEXT  19 

20385  IF  ABS(Y1)>1E4  OR  ABS(Y1)<  IE- 
ELSE  Dl$  ="#####■##" 

20390  IF  ABS(Y2)>  1E4  OR  ABS(Y2)<  1E- 
ELSED2S  =  "#####.##" 

20395  IF  ABS(X1)>  1E4  OR  ABS(X1)<  IE -2  THEN  D3$  =  "#.##[[[[" 
ELSE  D3$  =  "#####■##" 

20400  IF  ABS(X2)>  1E4  OR  ABS(X2)<  1E-2  THEN  D4$  =  "#.##[[[[" 
ELSE  D4$  ="#####•##" 

20405  IF  Blo47-W2  +  Y2/B  GOTO  20435 

20410  Dl = 1 

20415  D2=  -9 

20420  D3=  -68 

20425  D4  =  60 

20430  GOTO  20505 

20435  IF  Bio 47- Wl  GOTO  20475 

20440  Dl=-68 

20445  D2=  -68 

20450  D4  =  60 

20455  IF  Al  =Z1  THEN  D3  =  65 

20460  IF  Al  =Z2  THEN  D3  =  54 

20465  IF  Al  =Z2-X2/A  THEN  D3=  -68 

20470  GOTO  20505 

20475  Dl=60 

20480  D2  =  60 

20485  D3=  -68 

20490  IF  Al  =Z2  THEN  D4=  -74 

20495  IF  Al  =Z1  THEN  D4=  -62 

20500  IF  Al  =Z2-X2/A  THEN  D4  =  60 

20505  PRINT  @  F2(l)  +  D3, USING  D1$;Y1; 

20510  PRINT  @  F2(2)  +  D4,  USING  D2$;Y2; 

20515  PRINT  @  F2(3)  +  D1, USING  D3$;X1; 

20520  PRINT  @  F2(4)  +  D2, USING  D4$;X2; 

20525  RETURN 


TTCS-80,  PET, 
APPLE,  SORCERER 

Communications  Interface  Systems 


I  i  r.: 


DSend  &  Receive  Morse  Code  /  Radioteletype 

□  Teaches  Morse  Code!  /  Copies  wire  services! 

□  Complete  Hardware  &  Software  Package 

□  Extensive  User  Manuals 

□  From  $129 

Write  or  call  for  complete  catalog 


AMCROTRONICS,  inc.  ® 


1 125  N.  Golden  State  Blvd.  /  Suite  G 
Turlock,  CA  95380  (A) 

(209)  667-2888  /  634-8888  t********  ,.>  ,., 

We  are  experiencing  telephone  difficulties,  please  keep  trying 


All  scaling  and  other  mun- 
dane functions  are  taken 
care  of  in  the  subroutine. 


Text  continued  from  page  298: 

displayed  as  in  figure  5.  This  is  for  a 
graph  of  the  cost  of  heating  for  every 
month  displayed  in  the  total 
viewport. 

Clearly,  it  is  easy  to  plot  any  set  of 
data  that  can  be  represented  in  array 
form.  Remember  that  all  scaling  and 
other  mundane  functions  are  taken 
care  of  in  the  subroutines.  You  don't 
need  to  be  concerned  or  irritated  by 
the  gyrations  needed  to  create  dis- 
plays on  the  TRS-80. 

Analytic  Functions 

In  order  to  plot  any  analytic  func- 
tion, be  prepared  to  transform  the 
function  into  array  form.  An  example 
of  this  is  best  demonstrated  in  the 
plotting  of  the  function: 


Y 


X4 


This  is  for  X  taking  on  values  from 
—  10  to  10.  In  order  for  this  to  occur 
the  following  BASIC  initialization 
routine  is  needed: 

FOR  1= -10  TO  10 

AX  (I +  10)  =1 

AY(I  +  10)  =  It5  +  It4-It3 

NEXT  I 

TI=  0 

TA  =  20 

IN  =  1 

AX$=  "X  AXIS" 

AY$=  "Y  AXIS" 

Cl=         2 

C2=  49750 

The  result  should  appear  as  shown  in 
figure  6.  Note  that  the  correct 
quadrants  are  displayed. 

Another  feature  provided  by  this 
graphics  package  is  the  ability  to 
create  three-dimensional  graphs. 
Figures  7a,  b,  and  c  give  several 
examples  of  this,  along  with  the  array 
values  used.  The  displayed  figures  are 
not  necessarily  functions,  but  may 
have  more  than  one  y  value  for  each 
value  of  x. 

So,  creating  graphic  displays  isn't 
as  time-consuming  as  you  might  have 
once  believed,  and  now  there's  less 
distance  between  the  creative  idea 
and  its  final  realization  on  screen.* 


310        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  219  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  220  on  inquiry  card. 


BUSINCSS  SOFTWflRC 
FOR  TH€  Z-89! 


S  &  M  Systems,  Inc.,  the  "Rll-ln-One"  Software  Company 

is  offering  a  full  line  of  Business  Packages  for  the 

"nil-In-One"  Z-89  Microcomputer 

lnseq-80<TM)  Business  Software  Systems 
Industry  Standard  Osborne  Based:  Accounts  Payable/Receivable, 

General  Ledger,  Payroll 
S  &  M  Software:  Retail  Inventory  Control,  Invoicing, 
Manufacturers  Inventory  Control,  Customer  Mail  List 

PLUS  MANY  MORE!! 

All  Systems  have  been  Field  Tested  and  are  ready  for  shipment! 

CALL  ABOUT  OUR  NATIONAL  DEALER  PROGRAM  AND  JOIN  THE  BEST 

IN  SELLING  THE  FINEST  SOFTWARE  ON  THE  Z-80  MARKET! 

SYSTEMS  ALSO  OPERATE  ON  TRS-80  MOD  I,  MOD  II,  MOD  III 
AND  ALTOS  MICROCOMPUTERS 


for  Further  Information,  Contact:  S  &  M  Systems,  Inc. 

P.  O.  Box  1 225 


Or  Dial  Direct:  1  -61  7-373-1  599 
1-617-481-5231 


Haverhill,  Massachusetts  01830 


EVADA 


ForCP/M 

Powerful  subset  of  ANSI-74 

Order  now! 

All  the  elegant  simplicity 

of  COBOL  is  now  affordable! 


DISKETTE 
MANUAL 


99 


95^ 


REQUIRES  only  16K  RAM. 
Available  on  8"  CP/M 
standard  single  density  or 
5  <A"  diskettes  for  North 
Star,  TRS-80  Mod  I  and 
Superbrain,  Other  formats 
too!  Manual  alone  $24.95. 


These  powerful,  easy  to  use 
COBOL  APPLICATION  PACKAGES 

are  also  available: 

1.  BUDGET  PLAN  REPORT 
GENERATOR 

Fantastic  time  saver  and  planning 
aid  for  beginning  or  established 
businesses. 

2.  PERSONAL  FINANCIAL 
REPORTING 

Eye-opening  insights  of  personal 
spending. 

3.  LABELS  for  mailing  lists. 

4.  PRECOBOL  (a  preprocessor). 

ALL  4  in  one  BOOK! 

73  pages  with  complete  COBOL 
source  code  listings  and  super 
documentation. 


$24 


95 


<§> 


WE  ACCEPT 


Ellis  Computing 

1480  17fh  Avonu* 

Sen  Francisco.  CA  94177 

(415)  664-1534 


In  CA  add  sales  tax.  CP  M  trade  mark  of  Digital  Hesearch.  TRS-80  trade  mark  of  Tandy  Corp. 


COLOR  VIDEO  PROCESSOR 

•  Text,  Graphics,  Animation  •  16  Colors  •  256  x  192  Resolution 

•  NTSC  Composite  Video  Output  •  Uses  TMS  9918  •  Includes 
I/O  Mapped  16K  Video  Memory  •  3D  Simulation  with  32  Video 
Sprites  •  2  Byte  X-Y  Positioning  •  Real  Time  Clock  •  8  Level 
Interrupt  Selection  •  Inexpensive  RF  Modulator  allows  easy 
connection  to  any  color  TV  • 

PROGRAMMABLE  SOUND  GENERATOR 

•  Music,  Sound  Effects,  Tone  Signaling,  Ultrasonics  •  27  Hz  to 
111  KHz  Range*  3  Programmable  Analog  Channels  with  Sepa- 
rate Frequency,  Volume  and  White  Noise  Control  •  10  Selectable 
Envelope  Wave  Shapes  under  Software  Control  •  Two  8-Bit 
Programmable  I/O  Ports  for  use  as  External  Keyboard/Display 
Interface  •  Power  Amplifier  for  driving  External  Speaker  • 


INTRODUCTORY 
OFFER       . 


SINGLE  BOARD  COLOR  VIDEO 
AND  SOUND  GENERATOR  KIT.. $350 

COLOR  VIDEO  KIT $295 

SOUND  GENERATOR  KIT  $195 

Texas  residents  add  5%  sales  tax.  Prices  include  complete  documentation,  manuals 
and  programming  examples.  PC  board  is  solder-masked  with  gold  contacts.  Add  $100 
for  assembled  and  tested  units.  Send  $9.50  for  documentation  only,  refundable  with 
order.  Compatible  with  Z80,  8085  and  8080  at  2  or  4  MHz  on  S-100  buss. 

vm/k      ELECTRONIC  DESIGN  ASSOCIATES 

■KaJr*      P.O.  Box  94055       Houston,  Texas  77018       (713)  999-2255 


Circle  221  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980         311 


f 


1.3 


OQugQuyoooDDOPL) , 
POBBPuDDDDnnnnn  \ 


POCKET  COMPUTER   $269 


MODEL  I   $699 


Model- 1,  Level-li,  4K 
Model-!,  16K  no  Keypad 
Model-I,  16K  w/ Keypad 
Model-ll,  64K  RAM 
Model-Ill,  16K  RAM 
Model-Ill,  32K  Dual  Disk 
Pocket  Computer  w/lnterface 
TRS-80  Color  Computer 
TRS-80  Color  Computer  Expanded 
COMM-80  Interface 
CHATTER  BOX  Interlace 
DISK-80  Interface 
Expansion  Interlace,  no  RAM 
Expansion  Interface,  16K  RAM 
Expansion  Interface,  32K  RAM 
RS-232-C  Board 


LIST 
PRICE 

$649.00 
$768.00 
$849.00 

$3899.00 
$999.00 

$2495.00 
$298.95 
$399.00 
$599.00 
$179.95 

$349.95 
$299.00 
$418.00 
$537.00 
$99.00 


OUR 
PRICE 

$619.00 
$669.00 
$729.00 

$3799.00 
$929.00 

$2299.00 
$269.00 
$359.00 
$519.00 
$159.95 
$259.95 
$329.95 
$279.00 
$339.00 
$399.00 
$89.00 


with  interface 


TRS-232  Printer  Interface 

16K  Memory  Kit,  TRS-Keypad 

16K  Memory  Kit,  TRS-Exp.  Int. 

Upper/lower  Mod  Kit 

Video  Reverse  Kit 

CPU  Speed-up  Kit 

Data  Dubber 

Percom  Electric  Crayon,  w/cable 

TRS-80  Dust  Cover  (3pc  set) 

TRS-80  Computer  Case 

TRS-80  Monitor  Case 


LIST 
PRICE 

$119.00 

$119.00 

$59.00 


$9.95 

$109.00 

$84.00 


OUR 
PRICE 

$59.95 
$59.00 
$59.00 
$24.95 
$23.95 
$24.95 
$49.95 
$279.95 
$7.95 
$99.95 
$84.00 


COLOR  COMPUTER  $359 


MODEL  III   $929 


Percom,  TFD-100,  40-track 
Percom,  Dual  TFD-100  Drives 
Percom,  TFD-40,  40-track 
Percom,  TF0-200,  77-track 
Hardside,  40-track  Disk  Drive 
Percom  Data  Separator 
Percom  Extender  Card 
2-Drive  Cable 
4-Drive  Cable 


LIST 
PRICE 

$429.95 
$849.00 
$399.95 
$675.00 
$399.00 

$15.95 
$29.95 
$39.95 


OUR 
PRICE 

$399.00 

$799.00 

$379.00 

$629.00 

$359.00 

$29.95 

$15.00 

$29.00 

$39.00 


TERMS: 


TERMS:  Prices  and  specifications  are  subject  to  change.  HARDSIDE  accepts  VISA  &  MASTERCARD. 
Certified  checks  and  Money  Orders;  Personal  checks  accepted  (takes  3  weeks  to  clear).  HARDSIDE  pays  all 
shipping  charges  (within  the  48  states)  on  all  PREPAID  orders  OVER  $100.00.  On  all  orders  over  $100  a 
$2.50  handling  charge  must  be  added.  COD  orders  accepted  (orders  over  $250  require  25%  deposit)  there  is 
a  $5.00  handling  charge.  UPS, Blue  Label, and  Air  Freight  available  at  extra  cost. 


TO  ORDER  TOLL-FREE: 

1-800-258-1790 


(In  NH  call  673-5144) 


312        BYTE  November  1980 


Circle  222  on  inquiry  card. 


The  Chatterbox 

A  TRS-80  Interfacing  Alternative 


The  CHATTERBOX  is  a  unique  packaging  combination  of  the  presently 
available  COMM-80  I/O  Interface  for  the  TRS-80"  and  an  acoustic  modem 
This  one  box  is  all  that  is  required  to  turn  even  a  barebones  4K  TRS-80*  into  a 
full  time-sharing  terminal. 
The  CHATTERBOX  includes  built-in  programmable  50-19200  baud  serial  port,  a  Centronics 
compatible  parallel  printer  port,  a  300  baud  acoustic  originate  modem,  and  a  spare  TRS-BUS 
expansion  connector.  It  comes  complete  with  power  supply,  ribbon  cable  and  connector,  user's  manual,  and 
terminal  software  for  immediate  operation.  When  the  modem  is  in  use,  the  complete  data  conversion  is 
automatically  routed  to  the  serial  output  port  where  it  can  be  logged  on  a  printer. 
The  CHATTERBOX  is  the  only  peripheral  needed  to  allow  a  TRS-80'  to  communicate  with  time-sharing  systems  such  as 
MICRONET  and  the  SOURCE. 

It  is  completely  hardware  and  software  compatible  with  existing  TRS-80"  products  and  connects  either  to  the  keyboard 
connector  or  screen  printer  port  on  the  RS  Expansion  Interface.  Features:  Full  8-bit  parallel  port;  RS-232-C  serial  port  (up  to 
19.200  baud);  Acoustic  modem;  TRS-BUS  connector  for  future  expansion;  Connects  to  Keyboard  or  E.I.;  Includes  terminal 
software;  Users  manual;  Power  supply.  $259  95 


PRINTERS 


LIST 

OUR 

PRICE 

PRICE 

Centronics  730 

$795.00 

$749.00 

Centronics  730-3 

$895.00 

795.00 

Centronics  737 

$995.00 

$869.00 

Centronics  779 

$1395.00 

$1095.00 

Centronics  779  w/lower  case 

$1595.00 

$1195.00 

NEC  5510  SpinWriter 

$3195.00 

$2595.00 

NEC  5520  SpinWriter 

$3395.00 

$2895.00 

NEC  5530  SpinWriter 

$3195.00 

$2495.00 

NEC  Tractor-Feed  Option 

$249.00 

$225.00 

LRC  7000*  (64-col.) 

$405.00 

$299.00 

LRC  7000'  (40-col.) 

$389.00 

$289.00 

Okidata  Microline-80 

$800.00 

$699.00 

Tractor-Feed  Option 

$140.00 

$129.00 

RS-232-C  Option 

$299.00 

$279.00 

LRC  to  TRS-80 

LRC  to  PET,  IEEE 

LRC  to  RS232C,  male  or  female 

730  or  737  to  TRS-80 

NEC  or  779  to  TRS-80 

RS-232-C  to  RS-232-C,  male  to  male 


$20.00 
$59.00 
$65.00 
$29.00 
$35.00 
$24.95 


GENERAL  INTEREST 


SPECIAL 


PRICE 

PRICE 

BSR  System  X-10  Home  Controller 

$124.95 

$109.95 

BUSY  BOX,  TRS-80 

$114.95 

$99.95 

BUSY  BOX,  S-100 

$119.95 

$114.95 

AC-SFK-31  Line  Filter 

$24.95 

$19.95 

IS0-2  Line  Filter  &  Isolator 

$56.95 

$49.95 

IS0-2/CBS  Line  Filter-Isolator 

$70.95 

$59.95 

IS0-7/CB  Super  Filter-Isolator 

$146.95 

$99.95 

Mini-Flex  Diskette  File 

$24.95 

$19.95 

CASIO  C-80  Calculator  Watch 

$49.95 

$44.95 

BONE  F0NE 

$69.95 

$56.95 

L0G0S-9  Printing  Calculator 

$99.95 

$79.95 

CASIO 

C-80  CALCULATOR 

WATCH  $44.95 

/  '**'•"    *  *  ~" 

BONE 
FONE 
$56.95 


(plus  $2.50  postage  and  handling) 


(plus  $2  50  postage  and  handling) 


OLIVETTI 

LOGOS-9 

PRINTING 

CALCULATOR 

$79.95 

(plus  $2.50  postage  and  handling) 


TO  ORDER  TOLL-FREE 
1-800-258-1790 

(In  NH  call  673-5144) 


c& 

VISA_ 

Circle  222  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980         313 


Event  Queue 


November  1980 


November-February 

Courses  from  Integrated 
Computer  Systems  Inc, 

throughout  the  US.  Courses 
are  being  offered  on  VIO— 
Voice  Input /Output  for 
Computers  and  Program- 
ming in  Ada.  The   VIO 
course  will  teach  par- 


ticipants to  apply  voice- 
processing  algorithms  and 
software,  utilize  speech  syn- 
thesis techniques,  and  design 
voice-recognition  systems. 
There  will  be  systems  on 
which  students  can  learn. 
Programming  in  Ada  will 
cover  language  features, 
structured  programing,  in- 
terrupt handling,  external 
I/O  (input/output)  inter- 


faces, and  more.  This  course 
is  designed  for  program- 
mers, systems  analysts,  soft- 
ware engineers,  and  for 
those  in  the  aerospace  and 
defense  industries.  For 
schedules  of  the  times  and 
cities,  contact  ICS  Inc,  3304 
Pico  Blvd,  POB  5339,  Santa 
Monica  CA  90405,  (213) 
450-2060. 


Waiting  On  Delivery 
of  A  DEC  LAI 20? 


Avoid  the  hassle  by  upgrading  your  LA36  for  1200 
baud  operation  with  a  DS120  Terminal  Controller. 

The  Datasouth  DS120  gives  your  DEC  writer®  II  the  high  speed 
printing  and  versatile  performance  features  of  the  DECwriter®  III 
at  only  a  fraction  of  the  cost.  The  DS120  is  a  plug  compatible 
replacement  for  your  LA36  logic  board  which  can  be  installed  in 
minutes.    Standard  features  include: 

•RS232  interface 

•20  mA  Current  Loop  interface 

•Top  of  Form 

•Adjustable  Margins 

•Double  wide  characters 


•165  cps  bidirectional  printing 
•Horizontal  &  Vertical  Tabs 
•Page  Length  Selection 
•110-4800  baud  operation 
•1000  character  print  buffer 
•X-on,  X  off  protocol 
•Self  Test 


•Parity  selection 

•  Optional  APL  character  sel 


Over  4000  DS120  units  are  now  being  used  by  customers  ranging 
from  the  Fortune  500  to  personal  computing  enthusiasts.  In 
numerous  installations,  entire  networks  of  terminals  have  been 
upgraded  to  take  advantage  of  to- 
day's higher  speed  data  com- 
munications  services.  LSI 
microprocessor  electronics 
and  strict  quality  control 
ensure  dependable  per- 
formance for  years  to 
come.  When  service  is 
required,  we  will  respond 
promptly  and  effectively. 
Best  of  all,  we  can  deliver 
immediately  through  our 
nationwide  network  of 
distributors.  Just  give  us  a 
call  for  all  the  details. 

DATASOUTH  COMPUTER  CORPORATION 

4740  Dwight  Evans  Road  •  Charlotte,  North  Carolina  28210  •  704/623  8500 


November-December 

Datapro  Seminars, 

throughout  the  US. 
Seminars  on  data  com- 
munications, teleprocessing 
software,  distributed 
systems,  systems  analysis 
design,  word  processing, 
and  more,  will  be  given. 
The  enrollment  fee  is  $530 
for  current  Datapro  sub- 
scribers and  $580  for  non- 
subscribers.  For  information 
on  when  and  where  the 
seminars  are  being  held, 
contact  Datapro  Research 
Corporation,  1805  Under- 
wood Blvd,  Delran  NJ 
08075,  (609)  764-0100. 

November-February 

Courses  from  Harvard, 

throughout  the  US,  and  in 
London,  England.  Business 
graphics,  digital-image  pro- 
cessing, computer  mapping, 
computer  graphics,  and  in- 
formation systems  for 
natural  resources,  are  some 
of  the  one-  and  two-day 
courses  being  sponsored  by 
the  Harvard  Graduate 
School  of  Design  Laboratory 
for  Computer  Graphics  and 
Spatial  Analysis.  For  a  com- 
plete schedule,  contact  the 
Laboratory  in  Cambridge 
MA  02138,  or  contact  Karen 
Smolens,  Center  for 
Management  Research,  850 
Boylston  St,  Chestnut  Hill 
MA  02167. 

November  8 

Fall  1980  California  Corn- 


er! order  to  gain  optimal 
coverage  of  your  organi- 
zation's computer  con- 
ferences,  seminars ,  work- 
shops, courses,  etc,  notice 
should  reach  our  office  at 
least  three  months  in  advance 
of  the  date  of  the  event. 
Entries  should  be  sent  to: 
Event  Queue,  BYTE  Publica- 
tions, 70  Main  St,  Peter- 
borough NH  03458.  Each 
month  we  publish  the  current 
contents  of  the  queue  for  the 
month  of  the  cover  date  and 
the  two  following  calendar 
months.  Thus  a  given  event 
may  appear  as  many  as  three 
times  in  this  section  if  it  is 
sent  to  us  far  enough  in 
advance. 


314        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  223  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  224  on  inquiry  card. 


FULL  COLOR 

GRAPHICS 

Complete  line  of  color  imaging  systems  with  high  ^  * 

resolution  real  time  video  FRAME  GRABBER        -.,,-..''  :.;■ 
for  the  8-100  bus.  ___  , 

Capture  and  digitize  a  video  frame  in  1  /60th  of  a  second.  Store 
up  to  2  million  bits  of  image  data  in  on-board  buffer.  By  software,      VT-M'*"°  "&*% ' 
select  the  best  resolution  for  your  application  from  256  to  1280     ;^)'fjpyyg!  ] 
pixel  s  per  TV  line.  Display  your  digitized  image  or  your  computer     ....  ,•  *  I  .(£'•' ~*"1  ■  ^.-. 
processed    image   with    up   to   256  gray  levels   or   65,536    .JJjj"  i  if ■"***"==?. 


simultaneous  colors  on  standard  B/W,  NTSC  or  RGB  color  TV  ^TVa  '-* 
monitors. ....■■  ■  »?*■'  * 


I  .afaK     -Br^B« j—. 

TBI 


"piprg*; 


240x256  Digitized  image,  16  levels 


FREE 
CATALOG 


"    '•         ...  ■  .  ...   .     ".  "■ 


Features: 

•  Highest  quality  480x51 2x8  digital  video  image 

•  Input  capability  from  TV  cameras  or  other  sources 

•  Variety  of  synchronization  choices 

•  2  selectable  video  A/D  conversion  circuits 

•  Choice  of  1,  2,  4,  8,  16  or  24  bits  per  pixel 

•  32K-byte  image  memory  on  the  basic  system 

•  64K,  128K,  192K  and  256K-byte  system  capacity 

•  High  resolution  lightpen  input 

•  Photographic  trigger  control  input 

•  Software  selectable  system  parameters 

•  Stand-alone  intelligent  graphics  unit  with  universal  interface 
Accessories: 

•  RGB  color  monitor  •  Hard  copy  printer/plotter 

•  High  performance  lightpen       •  Software  packages  available 


480x512  Computer-generated 


240x256  Digitized  image.  1 6  levels 


ROBOTICS-AUTOMATED  COUNTING  AND  MEASURING-QUALITY  CONTROL  MONITORING 
PATTERN  RECOGNITION-IMAGE  PROCESSING-MEDICAL  AND  SCIENTIFIC  RESEARCH 


■ 


^DIGITAL 
^GRAPHIC 
^SYSTEMS 


441  California  Avenue 
Palo  Alto,  CA  94306 
415/494-6088 


GO  FOR  IT! 

FOR  PRICE, QUALITY  &  RELIABILITY 

ADDS  REGENT  25   $  875.00 

ANACOM  Printer  (Ser./Par.)  150CPS  ....  1095.00 

ANADEX  Printer  DP-8000 925.00 

ANADEX  Printer  DP-9500/9501 1425.00 

BASE  2  Printer  with  options 599.00 

CENTRONICS  Printer  779  w/tractor 975.00 

CENTRONICS  Printer  730  (Parallel) 675.00 

CENTRONICS  Printer  737  (Parallel) 825.00 

EATON  Dot  Matrix  Parallel    399.00 

EPSON  TX80  Tractor  Feed/Graftrax Call 

MICRO-TERMS  Call 

NEC  SPINWRITER  5510  R.O./forms  tractor  2725.00 

TELEVIDEO  920-B    795.00 

Tl  99/4  Personal  Computer/ monitor   ....  925.00 

TRIMM— Printer  Stand  with  basket 95.00 

CALL  FOR   QUOTES   ON  ANY  OTHER   MICRO   PRODUCTS 

We  are  dealers  for  BASF,  DYSAN,  3M(SCOTCH)  Dis- 
kettes, Cartridges,  Mag  Tape,  etc.  In  addition  we  carry  a 
complete  line  of  Printer  Ribbons  and  other  data  process- 
ing accessories. 

||lier*/^3  1840  LINCOLN  BLVD., 

[fcJUfcaf  fcj|     SANTA  MONICA,  CA  90404 

MART,    INC.  (213)450  5911 


Circle  225  on  inquiry  card. 


JOE  COMPUTER*  Presents  Exclusive  Software: 
IT'S  FOOTBALL  SEASON! 

Pro  and  College  Football  from  SOL: 

A  TRS  80t  translation  of  Ken  Perry's  popular  Apple  programs.  These  programs  predict  point 
spreads  with  unbelievable  accuracy.  They  are  heuristic  and  require  about  10  minutes  a  week  to 
record  the  weekend's  results  into  the  data  base  from  your  local  newspaper.  You  may  predict  any 
game  within  seconds  from  the  data  saved  on  cassette  or  disk.  Pro  Football  contains  all  28  pro 
teams.  College  football  contains  an  unbelievable  data  base  of  78  teams!  Each  program  comes  with 
the  entire  1979  season  data  file  on  cassette  or  disk.  You  can  display  each  team's  record  of  scores 
or  won-loss  record.  A  record  of  4-5  weeks  is  required  before  predictions  are  effective  so  you're 
just  in  time!  Pro  or  College  Football  will  be  shipped  UPS.  blue  label  the  same  day  order  is  receiv- 
ed. Order  COD.  by  phone.  $1.00  blue  label  charge;  COD.  fees  added  on. 

Pro  Football  Cassette  (32K  TRS  80  Level  II)  $21 .95 

Disk   $26.95 

College  Football  Cassette  (48K  TRS  80  Level  II)  $21 .95 

Disk   $26.95 

Horse  Race  Handicapping! 

Probability  Handicapping  Device  1  was  written  by  a  professional  software  consultant  to  TRW 
Space  Systems.  This  is  a  complex  program  carefully  human  factored  tor  easy  use.  It  is  a  com- 
prehensive horse  racing  system  for  spotting  overlays  in  thoroughbred  sprint  races.  Your  computer 
will  accurately  predict  the  win  probability  and  odds  line  for  each  horse  based  on  your  entries  from 
the  racing  form.  The  next  day  overlaid  horses  can  be  spotted  on  the  track  tote  board.  The  users 
manual  contains  a  complete  explanation  of  overlay  betting  plus  much  more  useful  information.  The 
appendix  contains  a  detailed  tab  run  of  a  100  consecutive  race  system  workout  showing  an  amaz- 
ing 50%  return  ($.50  returned  tor  each  $1 .00  flat  wager).  Includes  many  features  such  as  error 
correction,  bubble  sort,  line  printer  output,  archiving,  etc.  The  manual  may  be  ordered  seperately 
for  perusal  for  $7.95  and  credit  PHD-1  users  manual  and  cassette  for:  8K  Apple  II  Applesoft,  8K 

Challenger  (specify  1P or  4P] .  TRS-80  1 6K  Level  II $29. 95 

Apple  or  TRS-80  Disk   $34.95 

Brand  new  from  SOL:  Win  At  The  Races  another  Ken  Perry  spectacular!  This  algorithm  is  based 
on  a  currently  popular  book  representing  the  most  ambitious  multiple  regression  research  on 
thoroughbred  racing  to  date.  The  probable  odds  and  win  probability  for  each  horse  are  displayed. 
Line  printer  output,  error  correction,  descending  sort;  all  the  niceties! 

Win  At  The  Races  cassette  (32K  TRS-80  Level  II) $34.95 

Disk  (48K  TRS-80  Level  II) $39.95 

THE  BOOK  (or  the  Computerized  Handlcapperl 

WINNING  AT  THE  RACES  by  William  Ouirin  Ph.D.  Computer  science  has  come  to  the  rescue  of  the 
racing  fan.  This  is  the  first  major  scientific  study  of  handicapping  available  to  the  general  public, 
detailing  what  the  computer  reveals  about  class,  form,  early  speed,  and  more;  plus  special  multi- 
ple regression  computer  systems.  A  Tom  Ainsle  —  winners  circle  book. 

Winning  At  The  Races  $21 .95 

+  $.75  P  &  H 
Order  now  to  get  on  our  list  and  receive  back  issues  free! 
Phone  Orders:  Mike  (213)  992-0514  Systems  Design  Lab  (213)  374-4471 

Make  Checks  payable  to:    JOE  COMPUTER 
22713  Ventura  Blvd.,  Suite  F,  Woodland  Hills,  CA  91364 

'Get  on  the  Computers  &  Gambling  Products  mailing  list  for  $3.00  &  receive  available  back  issues 
Calif,  res.  add  6%  tax.  fTRS-80  is  a  Registered  Trademark  of  Tandy  Corporation 


Circle  226  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980         315 


puter  Swap  Meet     will  be 
held  in  the  Gateway  Hall  at 
the  Santa  Clara  County 
Fairgrounds  344  Tully  Rd, 
San  Jose  CA.  Show  times 
are  from  10  AM  to  8  PM. 

Manufacturers,  stores, 
and  individuals  will  display 
both  top-of-the-line  and 
used  merchandise. 

A  special  consignment 
table  will  be  available  for 
those  who  wish  to  drop  off 
an  item  or  two  to  be  sold 
during  the  day.  A  free 
literature  table  is  available 
to  anyone  within  the  in- 
dustry. Admission  to  buyers 


will  be  through  the  purchase 
of  a  redeemable  $5  purchase 
certificate.  Sellers,  both  in- 
dividuals and  companies, 
should  call  (415)  966-6546 
for  booth  prices,  availability 
and  reservations.  Or,  write 
to:  California  Computer 
Swap  Meets,  POB  52,  Palo 
Alto  CA  94302. 


November  8-9 

Personal  Computer  Fair, 

Pacific  Science  Center,  Seat- 
tle WA.  The  theme  of  this 
year's  fair  is  "Hands  On." 
Both  the  booths  and  the 


exhibits  will  reflect  this  idea, 
and  the  public  will  have  ac- 
cess to  as  many  computers 
and  terminals  as  possible. 
Contact  The  Northwest 
Computer  Society,  POB 
4193,  Seattle  WA  98119, 
(206)  284-6109. 


November  10-13 

The  Fourth  Annual  Data- 
Entry  Management  Con- 
ference, Orlando  FL.  The 
theme  of  this  conference  is 
"Improving  Productivity  and 
the  Quality  of  Working 
Life."  This  conference  will 
cover  data  entry,  dis- 


MPD  117 


MPD115 


Marway  has  the  AC  Power ' 
Controller  For  Your  System. 

You'll  find  the  ideal  solution  to  AC  power  distribution  needs  in  Marway's  proven 
family  of  power  controllers.    From  home  audio  visual  centers  to  a  time  shared 
maxicomputer  system.  Marway  products  will  stop  "glitches",  surges  and 
unwanted  line  noises. 


MPD  110  Series  of 
3Vz"  rack  mount 
AC  power  controllers 

•  Low  Price 

•  10  outlets  —  8  switched  (remote 
option).  2  unswitched  (direct) 

•  115  VAC  and  230  VAC  models 

•  15  amp  capacity 

•  High  performance  EMI  filter 

•  Optional  remote  control 


MPD  11 5  Series  of  DEC 
Compatible  Controllers 

•  Interchangeable  with  DEC  model 
861  and  priced  40°°  less 

•  12  outlets  —  8  switched.  4  un- 
switched (direct) 

•  115  VAC  and  230  VAC  models 

•  Up  to  30  amp  capacity 

•  High  performance  EMI  filter 

•  Optional  delayed  output  and 
optional  power  fail  restart 


MPD  117  low-cost  AC  power  distribution 


•  Minimum  cost 

•  8  outlets  — 6  switched.  2  un- 
switched (direct) 


•  10  amp  capacity 

•  High  energy  EMI  filter 

•  Transient  suppressor 


All  Marway  Power  Controllers  provide  organized. noise-free  power  distribution 
of  standard  AC  current  to  eliminate  frequently  experienced  line  transients 
and   associated  problems.    They  turn  a  single  wall  outlet  into  a  controlled 
power  source.   Contact  Marway  today. 

Marway  can  solve  your  power  distribution  problems  and  save  you  money. 

v mflRLUflV  PPODLCT5  INC > 


2421  South  Birch  Street,  Santa  Ana,  CA  92707  (714)  549-0623 


tributed  processing,  and 
word  processing  with  em- 
phasis on  data  entry,  in- 
cluding human-machine  in- 
terface. Contact  Data  Entry 
Management  Association, 
POB  3231,  Stamford  CT 
06905,  (203)  322-1166. 


November  11-13 

Eleventh  Annual  Canadian 
Computer  Show  and  Con- 
ference, International  Cen- 
tre, 6900  Airport  Rd,  Toron- 
to, Ontario.  Computers  and 
data-processing  equipment, 
supplies  and  services,  disk 
drives,  terminals  and  print- 
ers, telecommunications 
equipment,  software,  and 
other  related  items  will  be 
displayed.  Seminars  and 
tutorials  will  also  be  in- 
cluded. Contact  Industrial 
Trade  Shows  of  Canada,  36 
Butterick  Rd,  Toronto,  On- 
tario M8W  3Z8,  Canada. 

November  12 

National  Conference  on  the 
Use  of  On-Line  Computers 
in  Psychology,  St  Louis 
MO.  This  conference  is  for 
computer  users  in  psychol- 
ogy and  related  disciplines. 
These  users  will  consider 
the  use  of  computers  in 
research,  clinical  practice, 
and  teaching.  Tutorial  ses- 
sions will  be  included.  Con- 
tact Dr  Dominic  Massaro, 
Program  in  Experimental 
Psychology,  University  of 
California,  Santa  Cruz  CA 
95064. 

November  13-16 

The  1980  International  Com- 
puter Music  Conference, 
Queens  College,  Flushing 
NY.  This  conference  is  for 
persons  interested  in  com- 
puter applications  in  music. 
Conference  activities  include 
presentation  of  papers,  con- 
certs, workshops,  panel 
discussions,  meetings  of 
special  interest  groups, 
demonstrations,  and  an  ex- 
hibition of  computer  music 
equipment.  For  information, 
contact  Dr  Hubert  S  Howe 
Jr,  Director  1980  Interna- 
tional Computer  Music  Con- 
ference, Queens  College, 
Flushing  NY  11367,  (212) 
520-7342. 

November  17-21 
Integrated  Circuit  Engineer- 
ing, Bergamo  Center,  4435  E 


316        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  227  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  228  on  inquiry  card. 


Picture  your  data 
with  x,y  Genesis 

APPLESOFT*  Subroutines  Package  .  .  $74.95 


.  {9-313  > 

TURN 

" 

■STDRV 

PROJECTED 

THIS 

1977 

197*3 

1979 

1988          1981 

WLES  REVENUE 

44?.  3 

474.7 

512.3 

548.7       597.3 

TOTAL  EXPENSES 

413.4 

437.8 

467. 5 

498.4       536.4 

PROFIT  BEFORE  TAXES 

a.* 

17.7 

44.3 

58.3         61.8 

FEDERAL  TAXES 

S3. 9 

18.8 

22.4 

25.1          38.5 

NET  PROFIT 

15.9 

18.8 

22.4 

25.1          30.5 

INTO 
THIS 


9,  389 


>  e  o  f  :; 

"  h  K  E  S 


£  :<  P  £  N  S  E  S 


4  0U    ! 

7?     7  3     7  9     SB     SI 
PROJECTED 

for  the  total  picture 

of  your  business  or  scientific  data. 

■  The  most  FLEXIBLE  coordinate  graphics 
package  available  for  the  APPLE  II*  Computer. 

■  Add  a  new  dimension  of  meaning  to  your  data. 
Graphics  means  your  data  will  convey  more  in- 
formation, faster,  and  it  will  be  retained  longer. 

■  Standard  formats  for  PIE  CHART,  BAR  CHART, 
SCATTER  PLOT,  and  LINE  PLOT  are  included. 

■  User-definable  character  sets. 

■  Hard  copy  -  dump  graphics  screen  to  printer. 

Custom  OEM  Licenses  and  Dealer  Discounts  Available. 

...... .  VisiCalc™  Models 

For  the  APPLE  II*  Computer. 

SAVE  HOURS  OF  SETUP  TIME. 
VISIBLE  BOOKKEEPER $59.95 

Nine  basic  bookkeeping  models  with  instructions 
for  adapting  to  your  own  small  business. 

BUSINESS  PROJECTOR $39.95 

Basic  one  year  projection  with  Cash  Flow,  P&  L, 
Balance  Sheet,  and  Common  Ratios. 

....  Selected  Software  Tools  .... 

VISICALC '150.00 

Throw  away  your  pencil  and  paper  with  this 
Matrix  Problem  Solver  from  Software  Arts,  Inc. 

INFORMATION  MASTER *150.00 

THE  most  powerful  and  easiest  to  use  Data  Man- 
agement System  from  High  Technology,  Inc. 

Software  with  a  future  from 

FUTUREWORLD 

2514  UNIVERSITY  DRIVE       De<*  B"11 
DURHAM,  NORTH  CAROLINA  27707 
(919)489-7486 

'Trademark  of  APPLE  COMPUTER.  INC. 


Circle  229  on  inquiry  card. 


JM 


reformaTTer 

Now  There  Are  Three! 

REFORMATTER™  diskette  conversion  software  now  includes 
3  programs  for  transferring  information  bidirectionally  via  floppy 
diskette  medium: 

CP/M®  <— ?>DEC  gives  the  CP/M®  user 
complete  access  to  DEC  formatted  diskettes.  Provides  complete 
facilities  for  file  reorganization  and  directory  maintenance  along 
with  editing  capabilities. 

TRSDOS  <— »IBM  gives  the  Radio 
Shack®  Mod  II  user  complete  access  to  IBM  3740  formatted 
diskettes.  Provides  complete  facilities  for  character  translation, 
file  reorganization  and  directory  maintenance,  along  with  editing 
capabilities. 

CP/MS  <— »IBM,  the  original  REFORMATTER™ 

now  available  with  enhanced  features,  gives  the  CP/M®  user 
complete  access  to  IBM  3740  formatted  diskettes.  Provides 
complete  facilities  for  character  translation,  file  reorganization, 
and  directory  maintenance,  along  with  editing  capabilities. 

REFORMATTER™  programs  require  a  multiple  drive  system 
with  at  least  one  8"  single  density  drive. 

REFORMATTER™  is  available  at  $195.00  per  program.  For 
detailed  information  contact: 
MicroTech  Exports 
467  Hamilton  Avenue,  Suite  2 
Palo  Alto,  California  94301 

415/324-9114  ■TWX:  910-370-7457  MC1H-ALTOS 
Dealer  &  OEM  discounts  available 

CP/M  is  a  registered  trademark  of  Digital  Research. 
Radio  Shack  is  a  registered  trademark  of  Tandy  Corp. 


Bridge  the  GAP  in  your 
Business  Accounting. 

GENERAL  ACCOUNTING  PACKAGE.  This  is  a  proven  dou- 
ble entry  accounting  system  with  user  definable  accounts.  The 
account  numbers  are  made  up  of  7  4-digit  fields  allowing  7  levels 
of  account  classifications.  With  the  use  of  the  Operator  Report 
Selector  Generator  (ORSG),  you  can  generate  any  type  of 
report  you  desire,  or  use  report  programs  in  GAP-GL,  GAP- 
AP,  and  GAP-AR. 

GAP-GL  Includes  all  basic  GAP  functions,  plus  entry  of 
General  Ledger  transactions,  prints  General  Journal, 
General  Ledger  summary  and  detail,  Balance  Sheet, 
Profit  and  Loss Price  $124.95 

GAP-AR  Requires  GAP-GL  to  run,  allows  adding  A/R  in- 
voices, printing  Sales  Journal,  detail  A/R  report,  Ac- 
count Aging,  add/update  Cash  Receipts  with  register, 
Cash  Receipts  Journal,  and  A/R  Billing  .  Price  $99.95 

GAP-AP  Requires  GAP-GL  to  run,  allows  adding  of  A/P  in- 
voices, printing  Purchase  Journal,  detail  A/P  report, 
Aging  of  Accounts,  Check  Writing,  Check  Printing, 
Cash  Disbursements  Journal Price  $99.95 

SAVE  NOW  by  purchasing  all  three  packages  for  only  $299.95. 
Simply  mention  this  ad  when  calling  in  your  order,  or  send  the  ad 
with  you  mail  order. 

Your  BA/VISA  or  MasterCard  is  welcomed. 
Call  today  to  receive  complete  package  specifications. 

System  requirements  are  48K  CP/M        CP/M  is  registered  trademark  of  Digital  Research 


fy 


PROFESSIONAL  DATA  SYSTEMS 

31 8  E  1 8  St 
BAKERSFIELD,    CA  93305 
Telephone  (805)  323-0891 


Circle  230  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


317 


Patterson  Rd,  Dayton  OH 
45430.  This  course  is  de- 
signed for  engineers,  scien- 
tists, managers,  and  others 
who  need  a  broader  under- 
standing of  the  design, 
fabrication,  and  testing  of 
integrated  circuits.  The  fee  is 
$635.  For  information,  con- 
tact the  Director,  Continu- 
ing Engineering  Education, 
George  Washington  Univer- 
sity, Washington  DC  20052, 
(202)  676-6106,  or  toll  free 
(800)  424-9773. 

November  18-20 

The  Third  Industrial  Revolu- 


tion, McCormick  Place, 
Chicago  IL.  This  show  is  an 
exposition  and  conference 
devoted  to  development  by 
manufacturing  companies  of 
systems  for  information 
management.  Information 
may  be  obtained  from  Ban- 
ner &  Grief  Ltd,  110  E  42nd 
St,  New  York  NY  10017, 
(212)  687-7730. 

November  19-21 

Comdex,  Las  Vegas  Conven- 
tion Center,  Las  Vegas  NV. 
Comdex  is  a  conference  and 
exposition  for  independent 
sellers  of  small-computer 


and  word-processing 
systems,  peripherals,  media, 
and  supplies.  Address  in- 
quiries to  The  Interface 
Group,  160  Speen  St,  Fram- 
ingham  MA  01701,  (800) 
225-4620. 

November  20-21 

Western  Educational 
Computing  Conference,  San 

Diego  CA.  This  conference 
will  feature  papers  and 
seminars  on  the  use  of  com- 
puting in  higher  education 
for  instruction,  administra- 
tion, and  research.  Contact 
Ron  Langley,  Director, 


Televideo 
912  B.  $724  920  B 
912  C.  $724    920  C 


$547  ^{f1 


$773 
$773 


Z-89(48K). 


$795 
$2,225 


Texas  Instruments 

810 $1,516 


IQ120 


Atari 

800  (16K)  .5748 
400 $445 


Kurta  Digitizer.  .$559 


Scotch  -5'."  Qty.  10 $29 

Verbatim  -  5  v    Qty  10 $26 

Novation  -  Cat $150 

Mattel  -  Intellivision $238 


We  Also  Buy  and  Sell 
Used  Micro  Computers  &  Peripherals. 

Prices  reflect  3%  cash  discount.  Add  3%  for  credit  card  orders. 
Product  shipped  in  factory  cartons  with  manufactures  warranty. 
Add  2%,  a  minimum  of  $5,  for  shipping  and  handling.    ■■■ 


Call  Collect 


602-954-6109 


GOmPUTER 
WAREHOUSE 


2222  E.  Indian  School  Rd.  •  Phoenix,  Arizona  85016 


We  will  try  to  beat  any  advertised  prices! 


Computer  Center,  California 
State  University,  Long 
Beach,  1250  Bellflower  Blvd, 
Long  Beach  CA  90840,  (213) 
498-5459. 

November  20-23 

Northeast  Computer  Show, 

Hynes  Auditorium,  Boston 
MA.  This  exposition  is  open 
to  the  general  public.  The 
admission  will  be  $5.  Con- 
tact National  Computer 
Shows,  824  Boylston  St, 
Chestnut  Hill  MA  02167, 
(617)  739-2000. 

November  21-23 

National  Home  Entertain- 
ment Show,  New  York  Col- 
iseum, New  York  NY.  Ex- 
hibits will  cover  video, 
photography,  audio,  games, 
and  home  computers. 
Seminars  and  demonstra- 
tions will  be  featured  in  this 
show.  Contact  United 
Business  Publications  Inc, 
475  Park  Ave  South,  New 
York  NY  10016,  (212) 
725-2300. 

November  24-25 

Computer  Equipment 
Registration,  George 
Washington  University, 
Washington  DC.  This  course 
will  review  the  FCC's  Part 
15  rules  dealing  with  RF 
(radio  frequency)  emis- 
sions by  computers. 
Technical  considerations 
governing  the  classifications 
for  computers,  peripherals, 
and  other  related  devices 
will  be  described.  Contact 
the  GWU  Continuing 
Engineering  Education  Pro- 
gram, Washington  DC 
20052,  (800)  424-9773. 

November  25-27 

Semiconductor  International 

'80,  Metropole  Convention 
Centre,  Brighton,  England. 
This  exhibition  is  devoted 
completely  to  production  of 
semiconductor  components, 
and  displays  will  cover  all 
areas  of  technology.  A 
technical  conference  pro- 
gram will  cover  mask- 
making  procedures,  VLSI 
(very  large-scale 
integration),  crystal  growth 
technology,  thin  film  tech- 
nology, bonding,  memory 
testing,  and  more.  Contact 
Kiver  Communications  SA, 
171/185  Ewell  Rd,  Surbiton, 
Surrey,  KT6  6AX,  England. 


318        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  231  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  232  on  inquiry  card. 


Slack  Works 


A  full,  extended  FORTH  interpreter/compiler 
produces  COMPACT,  ROMABLE  code.  As  fast  as 
compiled  FORTRAN,  as  easy  to  use  as  interactive 
BASIC. 


SELF  COMPILING 

Includes  every  line  of  source 
necessary  to  recompile  itself. 


« 


EXTENSIBLE 

I  Add  functions  at  will. 

I  CP/M*  COMPATIBLE 
ZSOor  8080  ASSEMBLER  included 

Single  license 

Supplied  with  extensive  user  manual  and  tutorial 

$150.00 

Documentation  alone:  $25.00 

OEM's,  we  have  a  deal  for  you! 


CP/M  Formats:  8"  soft  sectored, 
5"  Northstar,  5"  Micropolis  Mod  II, 
Vector  MZ.TRS-80  Mod  II 

Please  specify  CPU  type. 
Z80or8080 

All  Orders  and  General  Information: 
SUPERSOFT  ASSOCIATES 
P.O.  BOX  1628 
CHAMPAIGN,  IL  61820 
(217)359-2112 

Technical  Hot  Line:  (217)  359-2691 
answered  only  when  technician  is  available) 


SuperSoft 

First  in  Software  Technology 

*CP/M  registered  trademark  Digital  Research 


Circle  233  on  inquiry  card. 


Model  EP-2A-87 

EPROM  Programmer 

PT1MAI-  it^  The    Model    EP-2A  87 

£„,       EP-2A°Sf'Nck        EPROM  Programmer  has  an 

■'  i^2~-~Ks^Sil!^L       m        RS-232  compatible  interface 
.,,,»        S,,»JB6|    m        and   includes  a  2K  or  4K 

fl"   -g*.  tgjjfg    m        buffer.  During  the  ON-LINE 
^m  m         mode,    another    computer 

*  can  down-load  to  the  buffer. 

Only  two  easy-to-implement 
commands  are  available  to 
an  external  computer.  (Load 
buffer  and  read  buffer.) 
In  the  OFF-LINE  mode,  the  EP-2A-87  will  program,  verify,  test 
buffer,  and  load  the  buffer  from  the  EPROM  socket.  During  the 
programming  cycle,  the  EPROM  is  checked  before  programming  to 
insure  that  it  is  erased  and  after  programming  it  automatically  verifies 
that  programming  is  correct.  Power  requirements  are  115  VAC 
50/60  Hertz  at  15  watts. 

Part  No.  Description  Price 

EP-2A-87-1  Programmer  with  2K  buffer    $525.00 

EP-2A-87-2  Programmer  with  4K  buffer    600.00 

Non  standard  voltage  option  (220  v.  240  v.  100  v)   15.00 

PM-0  Personality  Module,  programs  TMS  2708  26.00 

PM-1  Personality  module,  programs  2708    26.00 

PM-2  Personality  module,  programs  2732    31.00 

PM-3  Personality  module,  programs  TMS  2716  26.00 

PM-4  Personality  module,  programs  TMS  2532   31.00 

PM  5  Personality  module,  programs  2716,  TMS  2516    16.00 

PM-6  Personality  module,  programs  2704    26.00 

PM-7  Personality  module,  programs  2758,  TMS  2508    16.00 

PM-8  Personality  module,  programs  Motorola  MCM68764    34.00 

MS  XX  Disk  driver  software   27.50 

Optimal  Technology,  Inc. 

*  Blue  Wood  127      ^^ 

Earlysville,  Virginia  22936 
Phone  (804)  973-5482 


VT-100  GRAPHICS 


Vector  Plotting 
1220x240 
Dots/Screen 
Light  Pen  and 
Software  Options 
$1200 


DECwriter  GRAPHICS 


Vector  Plotting 
Many  DEC  Options 


1320  x  792  Dots/Page 
$1060 


^S  SELANAR  (408)727-2811 

^  CORPORATION 

2403  De  La  Cruz  Blvd.,  Santa  Clara,  CA  95050 


Circle  234  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


319 


December  1980 


December  2-5 

The  Eleventh  International 
Conference  of  the  Computer 
Measurement  Group, 

Sheraton-Boston  Hotel, 
Boston  MA.  This  conference 
is  entitled  "Computer  Per- 
formance Evaluation  in  the 
80s."  Contact  Judith  G 
Abilock,  Price  Waterhouse 
and  Company,  Office  of 
Government  Services,  1801 
K  St  NW,  Washington  DC 
20006,  (202)  296-0800. 


December  3-5 

The  1980  Winter  Simulation 
Conference,  Orlando  Mar- 
riott, Orlando  FL.  This  con- 
ference will  feature  papers, 
panel  discussions,  tutorials, 
and  review  sessions  on 
discrete  and  combined 
simulations.  Contact  Pro- 
fessor Tuncer  I  Oren,  Chair- 
man, Department  of  Com- 
puter Science,  University  of 
Ottawa,  Ottawa,  Ontario 
KIN  9B4,  Canada,  (613) 
231-5420. 

December  3-5 

Implementing  Computer- 
Based  Human  Resource 


Systems,  New  York  NY. 
This  is  a  seminar  for  plan- 
ning, organizing,  and  im- 
plementing a  comprehensive 
system  for  the  human 
resources  area.  It  will 
demonstrate  ways  to  set  up 
a  useful  personnel  record- 
keeping system.  The  course 
fee  is  $695.  For  information, 
contact  The  University  of 
Chicago,  Center  for  Con- 
tinuing Education,  MC 
Seminar  Division,  1307  E 
60th  St,  Chicago  IL  60637, 
(800)  223-7450. 

December  4 

California  Computer  Shows, 


condor 

COMPUTER  CORPORATION 


Our  Newest 

Data  Base 

Management 

System 


Introducing  CONDOR  SERIES  20/DBMS,  the  relational 
data  base  management  system  for  users  who  want  power- 
ful performance  at  reasonable  prices. 
For  the  special  introductory  offer  of  $695,  discover  how 
easy  it  is  to  develop  business  or  personal  information 
systems  with  SERIES  20/DBMS. 

•  Create  a  Data  Base  in  Minutes 

•  Full  CRT  Screen  Management 

•Use  English-like  commands.  Host  language  not 
required. 
•Computational,  Statistical,  and  Sorting  Capabilities 

CONDOR  SERIES  20/DBMS  is  compatible  with  many  Z-80 
microcomputers  with  at  least  48K  RAM  running  under 
CP/M®  operating  systems. 

CP/M  is  a  registered  trademark  of 
Digital  Research,  Inc. 


CONDOR  SERIES  20/DBMS 


.User's  Manual  ($35,  plus  tax) 


.Additional  information. 


Please  Send  To: 
Name 


Company . 
City 


.SERIES  20  package  ($695,  plus  tax) 

Position 

Address 

State ZIP. 


Phone ( 


.Computer. 


.CRT. 


CONDOR  COMPUTER  CORPORATION 

3989  Research  Park  Drive,  P.  O.  Box  8318 

Ann  Arbor,  Michigan  48107     (313)  769-3988 

Dealer  inquiries  welcome.  C20-2 


Hyatt-Palo  Alto,  Palo  Alto 
CA.  Show  hours  are  from  1 
to  7  PM.  OEM  (original 
equipment  manufacturers) 
and  end-user  computer  and 
peripheral  products  will  be 
exhibited  and  demonstrated 
by  over  sixty  companies. 
Contact  Norm  De  Nardi 
Enterprises,  95  Main  St,  Los 
Altos  CA  94022,  (415) 
941-8440. 

December  10 

1980  Computer  Networking 
Symposium,  Caithersburg 
MD.  The  symposium  is 
sponsored  by  the  IEEE  Com- 
puter Society,  Technical 
Committee  on  Computer 
Communications,  and  the 
Institute  for  Computer 
Sciences  and  Technology  of 
the  National  Bureau  of  Stan- 
dards. The  focus  is  on  office 
automation,  office  system 
components,  and  the  com- 
puter networks  required  to 
interconnect  them.  For  in- 
formation, contact  Executive 
Secretary,  POB  639,  Silver 
Spring  MD  20901,  (301) 
439-7007. 


January  1981 

January  7-9 

The  Fourteenth  International 
Symposium  on  Minicom- 
puters and  Microcomputers, 

Hotel  del  Coronado,  San 
Diego  CA.  The  scope  of  the 
symposium  will  cover  tech- 
nology, hardware,  software, 
engineering,  languages,  sys- 
tems architecture,  operating 
systems,  numerical  methods, 
computer  networks,  and 
other  aspects  of  computing. 
Contact  the  Secretary, 
MIMI  '81  San  Diego,  POB 
2481,  Anaheim  CA  92804. 

January  13-15 

Communications  Networks 
1981,  Albert  Thomas  Con- 
vention Center,  Houston 
TX.  This  show  will  feature 
exhibits  and  seminars  cover- 
ing network  policy  and 
management  for  US  and  in- 
ternational users  and  car- 
riers; network  architecture, 
software,  and  hardware; 
new  developments;  informa- 
tion appliances;  and  more. 
This  conference  is  aimed  at 
communications  profes- 
sionals, carrier,  service  and 


320       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  lnc 


Circle  235  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  236  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  237  on  inquiry  card. 


APPLE  H  TRS-80 

®  QUALITY  0 

S  DISK  SOFTWARE  OS 


D  HOME  FINANCE  PAK  I:    Entire  Series  $49.95  AT 

[~1  BUDGET:  The  heart  of  a  comprehensive  home  finance  system.  Allows  user  to  define  up  to  20  budget 
items.  Actual  expense  input  can  be  by  keyboard  or  by  automatic  reading  of  CHECKBOOK  II  files.  Costs  are 
automatically  sorted  and  compared  with  budget.  BUDGET  produces  both  monthly  actual/budget/variance 
report  and  a  year-to-date  by  month  summary  of  actual  costs.  Color  graphics  display  of  expenses.  .  .524.95 

Q  CHECKBOOK  II ;  This  extensive  program  keeps  complete  records  of  each  check/deposit.  Unique  check 
entry  system  allows  user  to  set  up  common  check  purpose  and  recipient  categories.  Upon  entry  you  select 
from  this  pre  defined  menue  to  minimize  keying  in  a  lot  of  data.  Unique  names  can  also  be  stored  for  com- 
pleteness. Rapid  access  to  check  files.  Check  register  display  scrolls  for  ease  of  review.  40  column  print- 
out.  Up  to  100  checks  per  month  storage.   Files  accessible  by  BUDGET  program $19.95 

LJ  SAVINGS.  Allows  user  to  keep  track  of  deposits/withdrawals  for  up  to  10  savings  accounts.  Complete 
records  shown  via  screen  or  40  column  printer $14.95 

O  CREDIT  CARD:  Keep  control  of  your  cards  with  this  program.  Organizes,  stores  and  displays  purchases, 
payments  and  service  charges.  Screen  or  40  column  printer  display.   Up  to  1 0  separate  cards S14.9S 

D  UNIVERSAL  COMPUTING  MACHINE:  $39.95  AT 

A  user  programmable  computing  system  structured  around  a  20  row  x  20  column  table.  User  defines  row 
and  column  names  and  equations  forming  a  unique  computing  machine.  Table  elements  can  be  multiplied, 
divided,  subtracted  or  added  to  any  other  element.  User  can  define  repeated  functions  common  to  a  row  or 
column  greatly  simplifying  table  setup.  Hundreds  of  unique  computing  machines  can  be  defined,  used,  stored 
and  recalled,  with  or  without  old  data,  for  later  use.  Excellent  fur  sales  forecasts,  engineering  design  analysis. 
budgets,  inventory  lists,  income  statements,  production  planning,  project  cost  estimates  in  short  for  any 
planning,  analysis  or  reporting  problem  that  can  be  solved  with  a  table  Unique  curser  commands  allow  you 
to  move  to  any  element,  change  its  value  and  immediately  see  the  effect  on  other  table  values.  Entire  table 
can  be  printed  by  machine  pages  (user -defined  3-5  columns)  on  a  40  column  printer. 

□  COLOR  CALENDAR:  $19.95® 

HIRES  color  graphics  display  of  your  personal  calendar.  Automatic  multiple  entry  of  repetitive  events.  Re- 
view at  a  glance  important  dates,  appointments,  anniversaries,  birthdays,  action  dates,  etc.  over  a  5  year  per 
iod.  Graphic  calendar  marks  dates.  Printer  and  screen  display  a  summary  report  by  month  of  your  full  text 
describing  each  day's  action  item  or  event.  Ideal  for  anyone  with  a  busy  calendar 

□  BUSINESS  SOFTWARE:    Entire  Series  $159.95  ®(J) 

Q  MICROACCOUNTANT  The  ideal  accounting  system  for  the  small  business.  Based  on  classic  T  accounts 
and  double-entry  bookkeeping,  this  efficient  program  lecords  and  produces  teports  on  account  balances, 
general  ledger  journals,  revenue  and  expenses  Screen  or  40  column  printer  reports.  Handles  up  in  1000 
lournal  entries  per  month  up  to  300  accounts.     Includes  a  shoit  primer  in  Financial  Accounting.  .     S49.95 

Q  UNIVERSAL    BUSINESS  MACHINE:     This  program  is  designed  to  SIMPLIFY  and  SAVE  TIME  foi  the 
serious  businessman  who  must  penudically  Analyze,  Plan  and  Estimate    The  program  was  created  using  our 
Universal  Computing  Machine  and  it  is  programmed  to  provide  the  following  planning  and  forecasting  tools. 
CASH  FLOW  ANALYSIS                 PROFORMA  BALANCE  SHEET     SOURCE  AND  USE  OF  FUNDS 
PROFORMA  PROFIT  &  LOSS        SALES  FORECASTER                     JOB  COST  ESTIMATOR 
Price,  including  a  copy  of  the  Universal  Computing  Machine .       $89  95 

□  BUSINESS  CHECK  REGISTER  AND  BUDGET:  A  combination  of  our  CHECKBOOK  II  and  BUDGET 
programs  expanded  to  include  up  to  50  budgetable  items  and  up  to  500  checks  pei  month.  Includes  hank 
statement  reconciliation  and  automatic  check  search  (4BK) . .  .       .     . ,  S49.95 

□  ELECTRONICS  SERIES:      Entire  Series  $159.95  ® 

□  LOGIC  SIMULATOR  SAVE  TIME  AND  MONEY.  Simulate  youi  digital  logic  circuits  before  you  build 
them.  CMOS.  TIL.  or  whatever,  if  it's  digital  logic,  this  program  can  handle  it.  The  program  is  an  inter 
active,  menu  driven,  full  fledged  logic  simulator  capable  of  simulating  the  bit  tunc  by  bit-time  response  of  a 
logic  network  to  user-specified  input  patterns.  It  will  handle  up  tu  1000  gates  including  NANOS  NORS  IN 
verters.  FLIP  FLOPS.  SHIFT  REGISTERS,  COUNTERS  and  use*  defined  liACROS  Up  to  40  usei  defined, 
tandoin,  or  binary  input  patterns.  Simulation  results  displayed  on  CRT  or  printer.  Accepts  network  des- 
criptions from  keyboard  oi  from  LOGIC  DESIGNER  for  simulation SB9.95 

Lj  LOGIC  DESIGNER:  Interactive  HIRES  Graphics  program  lor  designing  digital  logic  systems.  A  menu 
driven  series  of  keyboard  commands  allows  you  to  draw  directly  on  the  screen  up  to  1 5  different  gate  types, 
including  10  gate  shape  patterns  supplied  with  the  program  and  5  reserved  for  user  specification.  Standard 
patterns  supplied  are  NANO.  NOR,  INVERTER.  EX  OR.  T  FLOP.  JK  FLOP.  D  FLOP,  RS-FLOP.  4  Bit 
COUNTER  and  N  BIT  SHIFT  REGISTER.  User  interconnects  gates  just  as  you  would  normally  draw  using 
line  graphics  commands.  Network  descriptions  for  LOGIC  SIMULATOR  generated  simultaneously  with  the 
CRT  diagram  being  drawn S89.95 

□  MATHEMATICS  SERIES:       Entire  Series  $49.95  ® 

□  STATISTICAL  ANALYSIS  I:  This  menu  driven  program  perforins  SIMPLE  LINEAR  REGRESSION  analy 
sis,  determines  the  mean,  standard  deviation  and  plots  the  frequency  distribution  af  user  supplied  data  sets. 
Printer,  Disk,  I/O  and  edit  routines  included  (32K  mm.) SI 9  95 

□  NUMERICAL  ANALYSIS:  HIRES  2  Dimensional  plot  of  any  (miction.  Automatic  scaling.  At  your  option, 
the  program  will  plot  the  function,  plot  the  INTEGRAL,  plot  the  DERIVATIVE,  determine  the  ROOTS 
find  the  MAXIMA  and  MINIMA  and  list  the  INTEGRAL  VALUE  S19.95 

□  MATRIX:  A  general  purpose,  menu  driven  program  for  determining  the  INVERSE  and  DETERMINANT  of 
any  matrix,  as  well  as  the  SOLUTION  to  any  set  of  SIMULTANEOUS  LINEAR  EQUATIONS  Oisk  I/O  for 
data  save.  Specify  55  eon.  set  <48K)  or  35  eqn  (32K) S19.95 

□  3-D  SURFACE  PLOTTER:  Explore  the  ELEGANCE  and  BEAUTY  of  MATHEMATICS  hy  creating  HI- RES 
PLOTS  of  3  dimensional  surfaces  from  any  3  variable  equation.  Disk  save  and  recall  routine:,  foi  plots  Menu 
driven  to  vary  surface  parameters.  Hidden  line  or  transparent  plotting $19.95 

D  ACTION  ADVENTURE  GAMES:  Entire  Series  $29.95  A 

□  RED  BARON:  Can  you  outfly  the  REO  BARON1  This  fast  action  game  simulates  a  machine  gun  DOG 
FIGHT  between  your  WORLD  WAR  I  Bl  PLANE  and  the  baron  s.  You  can  LOOP,  DIVE.  BANK  or  CLIMB 
■  n  any  one  of  8  directions    and  so  can  the  BARON    in  HI  RES  graphics S14.95 

□  BATTLE  OF  MIDWAY:  You  are  in  command  of  the  U.S.S.  HORNETS'  DIVE  BOMBER  squadion.  Your 
targets  are  the  Aircraft  carriers,  Akaqi,  Soryu  and  Kaga.  You  must  fly  your  way  through  ZEROS  and  AA 
FIRE  to  make  your  DIVE  BOMB  run.  In  HI  RES  graphics S14.95 

CISUB  ATTACK:  It's  April,  1943,  The  enemy  convoy  is  headed  for  the  CORAL  SEA  Your  sub,  the 
MORAY,  has  just  sighted  the  CARRIERS  and  BATTLESHIPS.  Easy  pickings.  But  watch  out  for  the  DC 
STROYERS     they're  fast  and  deadly    In  HIRES  yraphics S14  95 

□  FREE  CATALOG  All  programs  are  supplied  on  disk  and  run  on  Apple  II  w/Disk  Si  Applesoft  ROM  Card  & 
TRS  80  Level  II  and  require  32K  RAM  unless  otherwise  noted  Oetailed  instructions  included.  Oiders  ship 
ped  withm  3  days.  Card  users  include  card  number.  Add  SI. 50  postage  and  handling  with  each  order. 
California  residents  add  %'/?%  sales  tax. 

Make  checks  payable  to: 

SPECTRUM  SOFTWARE 

P.O.  Box  2084     142  Carlow,  Sunnyvale,  CA  94087 
For  phone  orders  -  408-738-4387 
DEALER  INQUIRIES  INVITED 


DIGITAL 
COMPUTER  CASSETTES 

•  Ideal  for  Apple,  Pet  or  TR-S80  Users. 

•  Eight  Special  50  Foot  Cassettes. 

•  Unique  Storage  Album. 


$9.95  each  or  3  for  $26.00 

Extra  cases  -  $4.9S 

No  Sales  Tax  For  Out  Of  State  Customers 
Price  Includes  Free  Shipping  In  Continental  U.S. 

Dealer  Inquiries  Welcome 

c        j  ~  Call  Collect 

Sound  Concepts  for  Master  Card 

or  Visa  Orders 
801-375-7333 


P.O.  Box  299 
Provo,  Utah  84601 


LOW  COST  IMPACT  PRINTER 


48  Column  Impact  Printer  available  in  KIT  form  or  ASSEMBLED  and 
TESTED,  ready  to  be  connected  to  your  computer.  Primary  features 
include:  Microprocessor  controlled  and  programmable  with  32  system 
level  software  commands,  96  ASCII  characters  with  upper  and  lower 
case,  no  eye  straining  print  with  9  software  selectable  sizes  from  5  x  7  to 
larger  10  x  7  and  10  x  14  character  fonts,  reverse  font  printing 
capability,  standard  parallel  and  serial  interface,  baudrate  selectable 
from  1 10  to  9600  baud,  plus  many  more  functions  at  your  command. 

Prices  for  KITS  are  $295  (101A-48K)  without  enclosure  and  $325 
(101A-48KE)  with  enclosure.  KITS  include  all  electronics,  mechanical 
parts  and  detailed  assembly  instructions, 

ASSEMBLED  and  TESTED  Impact  Printers— prices  are:  $325 
(101A-48)  excluding  enclosure,  $355  (101A-48E)  with  enclosure. 

For  further  information,  contact: 

COOSOL,  INC. 

P.O.  Box  743,  Anaheim,  Ca.  92805         Phone:  (714)  545-2216 
(7  days  a  week) 


Circle  238  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


321 


hardware  vendors  who  are 
interested  in  combining 
voice,  data,  and  message 
systems  applications.  Con- 
tact Communications  Net- 
works '81,  c/o  The  Con- 
ference Company,  60  Austin 
St,  Newton  MA  02160,  (617) 
964-4550. 

January  14-19 

42nd  National  Audio- Visual 
Convention  and  Exhibit, 

Dallas  Convention  Center, 
Dallas  TX.  Over  300  manu- 
facturers and  producers  of 
audio-visual,  video  and 
microcomputer  hardware 
and  software  will  be  ex- 
hibiting their  products. 
Seminars  will  cover  market- 
ing and  production  of 
audio-visual  items.  For  more 
information,  contact  the 
National  Audio-Visual 
Association,  3150  Spring  St, 
Fairfax  VA  22031,  (703) 
273-7200. 


January  16-17 

Microcomputer  Conference, 

Arizona  State  University, 
Tempe  AZ.  The  goal  of  this 


microcomputer  conference  is 
to  introduce  educators  to 
the  applications  of  com- 
puters in  the  classroom.  The 
emphasis  of  the  conference 
is  to  provide  an  awareness 
of  microcomputers  and  their 
impact  on  society.  For  fur- 
ther information,  contact  Dr 
Gary  G  Bitter,  Arizona  State 
University,  Payne  203, 
Tempe  AZ  85281. 


January  27-29 

Advanced  Semiconductor 
Equipment  Exposition,  San 

Jose  Convention  Center,  San 
Jose  CA.  Over  100  ex- 
hibitors will  feature  equip- 
ment at  this  trade  show. 
The  show's  emphasis  is  on 
new  products  and  emerging 
technology  in  the  semicon- 
ductor processing  and  pro- 
duction fields.  Contact 
Cartlidge  &  Associates,  491 
Macara  Ave,  Suite  1014, 
Sunnyvale  CA  94086,  (408) 
245-6870. 

January  28-31 

The  Third  IMMM/Data 
Comm  International  Japan 


Exposition,  Harumi  Exposi- 
tion Center,  South  Hall, 
Tokyo,  Japan.  Over  15,000 
scientists,  design  engineers, 
technical  managers,  applica- 
tions engineers,  and  other 
specialists  are  expected  to  at- 
tend this  show.  Internepcon 
Japan/Semiconductor  Inter- 
national is  held  concurrent- 
ly. A  conference  program 
will  include  talks  on 
microcomputer-controlled 
data  communications 
systems,  peripheral  inter- 
facing, software  manage- 
ment, and  more.  Contact  In- 
dustrial and  Scientific  Con- 
ference Management  Inc, 
222  W  Adams  St,  Chicago 
IL  60606,  (312)  263-4866.  ■ 


BYTE's  Bugs 


Correspondence  on 
Correspondence 

Thank  you,  BYTE,  for 


Introducing 

THE 

eericHmarK 


WORD 

PROCESSING 

SYSTEM 


THE  BENCHMARK  software  system  sets  new  standards  in  word  processing.  First,  it 
can  be  delivered  to  run  on  the  CP7  M  or  the  North  Star  DOS,  so  there  may  be  no  need  to 
buy  a  special  operating  system.  Second,  it  has  all  the  features  of  systems  costing 
thousands  of  dollars  more.  Third,  the  price  is  as  low  as.  or  lower  than,  most  word 
processing  systems. 

Anyone  can  learn  to  run  and  use  THE  BENCHMARK  in  one  day  of  self  training. 
Completely  self-prompting  in  English.  THE  BENCHMARK  is  a  full  capability  word 
processor,  has  been  thoroughly  tested  in  an  office  environment  and  proved  to  meet  the 
needs  of  the  most  sophisticated  user. 

•  Multi-operating  system  •  Overtype  -  erases,  corrects 

•  Changes  terminal  drivers  •  Variable,  electronic  decimal  tab 

•  Customized  to  utilize  all  the  •  Screen  menus  simplify  operation 
features  of  terminal  &  printer  •  Block  move  and  get 

CC  ^\  Ok  Q  p'us  tax 

ONLY    Q      ■  ^»  ^»  where  applicable 

THE  BENCHMARK  is  distributed  exclusively  by  RS.B  Computer  Systems.  Dealer 
inquiries  are  invited. 

P^p  Computer 


1954  E.  University 


Systems 


Tempe,  Arizona  852S1 


1 -800-528-7385  AZ-602-968-7101 

THE  BENCHMARK  is  a  trademark  of  Metasoft  Corporation 


running  the  enlarged,  cor- 
rected oscilloscope 
photographs  in  BYTE's  Bugs 
on  page  182  of  the  June  1980 
issue.  BYTE  readers  may 
wish  to  label  these  pictures 
in  order  to  be  sure  of  their 
correspondence  with  the 
original  photographs  on 
page  66  of  the  article,  "A 
Computer-Controlled  Light 
Dimmer"  (January  1980 
BYTE).  The  picture  labels 
should  be  matched  as 
follows: 

Original  Pictures  in 

Article  BYTE's  Bugs 

(January)  (June) 

00  a 

40  b 

80  c 

CO  d 

FF  e 

Thank  you  again  for  your 
time  and  concern  in 
publishing  the  corrections  in 
BYTE's  Bugs. 

John  H  Gibson 
Department  of  Physics 
Alma  College 
Alma  MI  48801 


Incorrect  STOIC  Price 

An  incorrect  price  was 
reported  in  John  James's  ar- 
ticle "What  is  FORTH?"  in 
the  August  1980  BYTE.  On 
page  134,  middle  column, 
Mr  James  reported  that  the 
language  STOIC  was 
available  from  the  CP/M 
User's  Group  (1651  Third 
Ave,  New  York  NY  10028) 
for  $20.  The  membership  fee 
of  $4  has  been  replaced  by  a 
one-time  catalog  fee  of  $6, 
making  the  total  $22,  not 
$20  ($8  each  for  two  floppy 
disks  plus  $6  for  the 
catalog).  Also,  the  above 
price  is  valid  for  the  United 
States,  Canada,  and  Mexico 
only.  The  price  for  all  other 
countries  is  $12  per  disk, 
making  a  total  of  $30  ($12 
each  for  two  floppy  disks 
plus  $6  for  the  catalog).  The 
Group  is  filling  orders  that 
were  received  with  insuffi- 
cient funds,  but  they  (and 
we  at  BYTE)  request  that 
the  receivers  of  such  orders 
pay  the  appropriate  dif- 
ference in  price. ■ 


322        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  239  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  240  on  inquiry  card. 


WE 

DELIVER! 

Osborne  Business 
Sofrvvore 


O 


Before  you  buy  the  programs  that  your  company  is  going  to 
depend  on  for  its  accounting,  ask  the  following  questions: 

Do  I  get  the  source 
code? 

Is  it  well  documented? 

Is  it  fully  supported? 


(Don't  settle  for  less. 
You  cannot  make  the 
smallest  change  without  it.) 
(The  Osborne  documen- 
tation is  the  best.) 
(If  not,  why  not?  What  are 
they  afraid  of?) 

The  Osborne  system  is  the  industry  standard  accounting 
package,  with  literally  thousands  of  users.  We  offer  an  en- 
hanced version  of  that  package  that  will  run  on  most  systems 
without  recompiling. 

CRT  INDEPENDENCE.  The  original  programs  were 
designed  to  run  on  a  Hazeltine  terminal.  To  use  a  different 
CRT,  you  had  to  modify  and  test  two  modules  —  and  recom- 
pile every  program!  With  the  Vandata  package,  you  simply 
pick  your  CRT  from  a  menu  and  run. 

FILE/DRIVE  MAP.  The  original  package  had  all  data  files 
on  the  same  drive  as  the  programs.  Ours  allows  you  to 
dynamically  specify  the  drive  assigned  to  each  file.  In  fact,  you 
can  change  the  drive  assignments  whenever  you  wish,  to  ac- 
commodate expanded  file  sizes  or  new  hardware  —  all 
without  recompiling! 

INTEGRATION.  The  original  AR  and  AP  systems  had  to 
be  changed  and  recompiled  to  feed  journal  entries  to  GL.  Our 
installation  program  eliminates  this  hassle.  It  simply  asks  you  if 
you  want  the  systems  integrated,  and  what  your  special  ac- 
count numbers  are. 

SPEED.  The  original  programs  used  a  binary  search  to  ac- 
cess the  GL  account  file.  We  use  an  enhanced  technique  that 
greatly  cuts  down  on  disk  accesses,  thus  speeding  up  account 
lookups  significantly  in  the  GL,  AR  and  AP  systems. 

BUGS.  We  have  corrected  a  number  of  bugs  in  the  original 
programs.  If  you  find  a  bug  in  our  programs,  we'll  fix  it  —  and 
send  you  a  $20  reward!  Our  users  are  sent  bug  fixes  in  source 
form. 

MORE!  We  have  made  many  minor  enhancements,  and 
fixed  many  minor  problems.  We  are  committed  to  the  ongoing 
support  of  our  package.  Vandata  has  been  an  independent 
software  supplier  for  over  seven  years.  Quality  and  support  are 
our  way  of  doing  business. 

General  Ledger  with  Cash  Journal  $95 

Accounts  Receivable  $95 

Accounts  Payable $95 

Payroll  with  Cost  Accounting  $95 

•  All  Four  Packages  (GL,  AR,  AP,  PR) $295 


Magic  Wand  (Super  Word  Processor! !)  $345 

Pearl  Level  III  (best  prog,  tool  available)  $645 

CBASIC-2  $110 

TRS-BO®    MODIICP/M®    2.2  (Pickles  &  Trout)  $185 

H89/Z89  CPM1    2.2  (Magnolia  inc.  h/w  mod)  $295 

Foimats:  Std  8".  5"  NorthStar  DD.  TRS-80  MOD  II  tm.  H89/Z89  Manuals  tor 
GL,  AR/AP,  and  PR  are  not  included  in  price  —  add  $20  per  manual  desired 
(AR/AP  are  in  one  manual)  CP/M'*'  and  CBASIC-2  required  to  run  accounting 
software  Users  must  sign  licensing  agreement  Dealer  inquiries  invited. 


To  order  call 
or  write: 


VISA/MC  Welcome 
TRS-80* 


(206)  542-8370 

VANDATA 

17541  Stone  Avenue  North 

Seattle,  WA  98133 

—  CPjM*    is  a  registered  trademark  of  Digital  Research, 
is  a  registered  trademark  of  Radio  Shack.  Inc. 


6502  MICRO  MICROCOMPUTER 


This  JBE  micro-microcomputer  has  the  following; 

•  1024  bytes  of  RAM  (two  2114s) 

•  2048  bytes  of  EPROM  (2716) 

•  Uses  one  6522  via  (documentation  incl.) 

•  2  8-bit  bidirectional  I/O  ports 

•  2  16-bit  programmable  timer/counter 

•  Serial  data  port 

•  Latched  output  and  input  with  handshaking  logic 

•  TTL  and  CMOS  compatible 

The  6502  microprocessor  is  particularly  suited  for  control  functions  such 
as  temperature  control  burglar  alarm,  electrical  wheel  chair,  lights,  etc. 
This  micro-micro  interfaces  with  the  JBE  Solid  State  Switch  and  A-D  and 
D-A  converter  and  uses  JBE  5V  power  supply.  2716  EPROM  is  available 
separately.  A  50  pin  connector  is  included. 
80-153  ASSM,  $110.95     Kit  $89.05     Bare  Board  $24.95 


DIMMER  CONTROL 


111 

lilt 


ui 


^]WG 


The  JBE  Dimmer  Control  has  4 
channels,  256  brightness  levels 
on-board  power  supply  and  four 
8-bit  parallel  input  ports  {not 
latched).  This  board  interfaces 
with  JBE  Solid  State  Switch  and 
Apple  II  Parallel  Interface  Card 
(documentation  included). 

80-146   ASSM.    $89.95 

KIT    $79.95 

BARE  BOARD    $25.95 


APPLE  II  DISPLAY  BOARD 


This  handy  little 
board  is  ideal  for 
teaching  and  trouble- 
shooting.Ithasarun- 
stop  single  step 
switch  which  makes 
identification  of 
shorted  lines  between 
address  or  data-bits 
easy  &  shows  single 
step  for  teaching 
computer  logic.  The 
display  board  has  16 
address  LEDs,  8  data 
LEDsandlRDYLED. 
All  lines  are  buffered. 


80-144   ASSM.     $49.95 

KIT     $42.95 

BARE  BOARD     $25.95 


&  JOHN  bell  engineering 


ALL  PRODUCTS  ARE  AVAILABLE  FROM  JOHN  BELL  ENGINEERING 

P.O.  BOX  338  •    REDWOOD  CITY,  CA  94064  •   (415)367-1137 

ADD6%  SALES  TAX  IN  CALIFORNIA.  FOR  ORDERS  OUTSIDETHE  U.S.A., 

ADD5%  FORSHIPPINGANDHANDLING. 

"For  complete  product  line,  see  John  Bell  Engineering  full  page  ad  in  Kilobaud 

'Write  for  our  new  catalog 


Kill  Surges 
Like  Lightning! 


Surge  Sentry  120  works  in  parallel  with  the  power 
line  to  shunt  destructive  power  surges  in  less  than 
1  nanosecond!  Triggers  at  10%  above  the  nominal 
peak  voltage.  Plugs  into  any  standard  120-volt 
outlet  for  immediate  protection. 

Ideal  for  small  computers,  communications, 
medical,  and  other  sensitive  electronic  equipment. 
Suggested  retail  price  $89.50.  OEM  model  also 
available.  Call  or  write: 

l\  [i  Z  R&K  Enterprises 

643  South  6th  Street,  San  Jose,  CA  95112 
(408)  288-5565. 

Dealer  inquiries  invited. 


Circle  241  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


323 


Product  Review 


The  muSIMP/muMATH-79 
Symbolic  Math  System 


Computers  are  very  literal  minded: 
ask  one  to  add  1/2  and  1/3  and  it  will 
probably  give  you  0.833333  or  some 
close  approximation.  Ask  for  401  (ie: 
40  factorial)  and  you  will  get  an 
answer  like  8.1592E47,  if  you  receive 
a  reply  at  all.  But  what  if  you  wanted 
the  answer  5/6  for  the  first  problem 
and  an  exact  answer  to  the  second 
problem,  all  forty-eight  digits  of  it? 
Computers  express  everything  in 
numbers,  not  symbols:  that's  the 
problem. 

A  software  package  called 
muMATH-79,  created  by  the  Soft 
Warehouse  of  Honolulu,  Hawaii, 
does  just  what  you  want  and  more. 
The  muMATH-79  package,  billed  as 
a  symbolic  math  system,  is  to 
algebraic  problem  solving  what  the 
pocket  calculator  is  to  arithmetic 
problem  solving.  Like  a  pocket 
calculator,  it  cannot  solve  problems 
on  its  own,  but  muMATH-79  can  be 
an  invaluable  tool  in  terms  of  increas- 
ing the  accuracy  and  the  complexity 
of  the  problems  that  can  be  solved  by 
a  person. 

muMATH-79  is  a  modular  system. 
It  can  be  used  for  any  one  or  a  com- 
bination of  the  following:  611-digit 
arithmetic;  matrix  manipulation; 
algebraic  manipulation  and  equation 
solving;  logarithmic  and 
trigonometric  manipulation;  integra- 
tion and  differentiation. 

Arithmetic  and  Algebra 

muMATH-79  manipulates 
everything  as  a  string  of  symbols,  so 
it's  no  surprise  that  numbers  are 
stored  as  strings  of  digits,   with  a 

324        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Gregg  Williams 
Editor 


given  number  being  up  to  611  digits 
long.  Given  this  situation, 
muMATH-79  has  defined  addition, 
subtraction,  multiplication,  division, 
and  integral  exponentiation  as  opera- 
tions that  work  on  two  strings  of 
numbers  to  give  a  third  string  as  a 
result. 


Matrix  operations  in 
muMATH-79  are  fast  as 
well  as  exact. 


When  muMATH-79  is  running,  the 
computer  prompts  user  input  with  a 
question  mark  and  a  space.  (In  our 
examples,  computer-generated  out- 
put is  underlined  here  to  distinguish  it 
from  user  input.)  All  commands  must 
be  ended  in  a  semicolon,  and 
muMATH-79  precedes  its  answer 
with  an  ampersand  and  a  space.  For 
example,  if  we  type  in: 

7_2t50; 

muMATH-79  replies  almost  instantly 
with: 

@   1125899906842624 


Similarly,  a  request  for  40  factorial 
gets  an  immediate  reply: 

7_40l; 

@  81591528324789773434 
561126959611589427200 


0000000 


We  can  assign  strings  (ie:  numbers  or 
symbolic  expressions)  to  variable 
names  using  a  colon: 


7_Cl:2t50; 

@   1125899906842624 


?_C2:C1-1; 

@   1125899906842623 


Also,  we  can  change  the  radix  used 
to  accept  and  display  numbers.  For 
example,  to  change  to  binary  (also 
called  radix  2  or  base  2),  we  say: 

7_  RADIX  (2); 
@  1010 


and  muMATH-79  replies  that  its  base 
was  base  10  (since  it  is  now  in  base  2, 
it  prints  10  in  binary:  binary  1010  = 
decimal  10).  To  check  that  we  are  in 
base  2: 

7_C1; 

@  10000000000000000000 
0000000000000000000000 

000000000 
7_C2; 
@  11111111111111111111 

111111111111111111111 

111111111 

Sure  enough,  Cl,  being  250,  should  be 
a  1  followed  by  fifty  0s  in  binary,  and 
C2  should  be  fifty  Is. 

Also,  muMATH-79  is  fast.  It  com- 
puted all  the  above  answers  in  less 
than  1  second  each  (running  on  a 
Cromemco  Z-2D  at  4  MHz),  and 
answered  2501  (seven  lines  of 
numbers)  in  31  seconds.  (See  listing 
1.)  When  a  number  being  computed 


Circle  242  on  inquiry  card 


Circle  243  on  inquiry  card. 


For  your  APPLE/CORVUS  Computer  System: 

Store  up  to 

30,000  names 
per  mailing  list! 

with  an 

unlimited  number 
of  lists! 


Unlimited  potential  is  avail- 
able now  with  this  new  mail- 
ing list  program  designed 
for  commercial  mailers,  and 
written  in  Applesoft.  With  6 
lines  per  record,  fully  adapt- 
able to  your  format,  up  to 
30,000  names  can  be  main- 
tained on  each  list  with  no 
limit  on  the  number  of  lists. 
"Apple"  and  "Corvus"  are  registered 
trademarks  of  Apple  Computer  Inc. 
and  Corvus  Systems. 


Features  of 


This  Revolutionary  Program: 

creates  list  •   finds  entry 


selects  list 
displays  list 
reports  list 
maintains  list  by  zip 
code  and  alphabetical 
order 


browse  thru  entry 
change  entry 
add  to  entry 
deletes  entry 
search  entries 
utility/code  field 

PRODUCES  1  UP,  2UP,  3UP,  4UP  CHESHIRE 
OR  PRESSURE  SENSITIVE  LABELS 


Fully  Prompting  •  Easy  To  Run 


Requirements: 


Requires  48K  Apple,  80  or  132  column  printer, 
Corvus  11AP  Hard  Disk.  Optional:  Corvus  Mir- 
ror, Corvus  Constellation. 


Complete  Software 


program    with    detailed 
user  manual.  Add  $3.  for    $' 

shipping. 

All  orders  prepaid  or  C.O.D.  N.J.  firms  add  5%  sales  tax. 


250. 


STONEHENGE  COMPUTER  CO. 

89  Summit  Avenue  Summit,  N.J.  07901 

or  call  (201)  277  1020  for  further  information 
i  DEALER  INQUIRIES  INVITED 


There's  never  been  a 

better  time  to 

buy  an  Apple II. 


48K  APPLE  H 

OR  PLUS 
ONLY  $1095. 


Visit  our  newly  expanded  showroom  and  see 
one  of  the  original  Applels  on  display. 


[apple  computer 

Authorized  Dealer 


FARNSWORTH 
COMPUTER  CENTER 

1891  N.  FARNSWORTH  AVE. 
(At  the  East-West  Tollway) 
AURORA,  IL.  60505 
(312)  851-3888 

Weekdays  10-8;  Sat.  10-5 


IMAIL  ORDER  DISCOUNTSI 


^L 


apple  computer 

Sates  and  Service 


APPLE  II  48K 

$1,059 


ACCESSORIES 


DISK  II  DRIVE  &  CONTROLLER 

DISK  II  DRIVEONLY 

INTEGER  BASIC  FIRMWARE  CARD 

APPLESOFT  II  FIRMWARE  CARD 

M&RSURR-MODRF  MODULATOR 
CENTRONICS  PRINTER  INTERFACE  CARD 
HIGH-SPEED  SERIAL  INTERFACE  CARD 


.480         MICROSOFTZ-80SOFTCARDSYSTEM 315 

420  VIDEX  80  COLUMN  BOARD 

149  W/GRAPHICS  AND  SWITCH    350 

149  DC  HAYES  MICROMODEM  II 330 

25  SILENTYPE  PRINTER  W/INT.  CARD                        510 

185  LANGUAGE  SYSTEM  W/PASCAL 420 

145         GRAPHICS  TABLET    650 

ALF  MUSIC  SYNTHESIZER 235 

SOFTWARE 


APPLE  FORTRAN    165 

DOS  3.3       49 

APPLE  DOS  TOOL  KIT 65 

APPLEPLOT  GRAPH  &  PLOT  SYSTEM 60 


THE  CONTROLLER  BUSINESS  SYSTEM   ...      515 
THECASHIER  RETAIL  MANAGEMENT   ..  199 

VISICALC 120 

APPLEWRITER  TEST  EDITOR 65 


WE  WILL  TRY  TO  BEAT  ANY  ADVERTISED  PRICE 
WE  PERFORM  APPLE  WARRANTY  REPAIR 
TO  ORDER: 


computer  age.  inc. 

Authorized  Apple  Dealer  &  Service  Center 

4688  CONVOY  ST.,  SUITE  105 

SAN  DIEGO,  CA  92111 

(714)565-4042 


Please  phone  using  VISA  and 
Master  Card.  Or  send  cashier's 
check,  money  order  or  personal 
check  (allow  14  business  days  to 
clear).  VISA  and  MC  credit  card 
service  add  2%.  Shipping,  han- 
dling and  insurance  add  3%. 
California  residents  add  6% 
sales  tax. 
ORDER  HOURS: 
Monday  thru  Saturday  9-5  PST. 


Circle  244  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


325 


Listing  1:  Extended-precision  arithmetic  in  muMATH-79.  As  shown  in  the  first  two  examples,  muMATH-79  does  not  convert  frac- 
tions, but  rather  reduces  them  to  their  lowest  terms.  As  you  can  see  from  the  493-digit  answer  to  250!  (250  factorial),  muMATH-79 
does  all  its  arithmetic  exactly.  In  this  and  all  other  listings,  underlining  denotes  computer  output. 

1_  4/20; 

@    1    /    5 


J_   352/283072; 
@  11  /  8846 

?  250! ; 


@  32  3285626090910773232081455202436847099484371767  37  806667  47  942  4-27112  8  23 
747555111209488  817  915  37102819945092  8507  35  3189432  9267  3093171280899082  27  91 
0302790712819216765272401892647  3  32180411862610068  32925  36513  3678  939089569 
93  5713  5  3017504051317  87600772  47  9  3  3065  402  3  3900616482555224881943657  2586057 
39922264125483298220484913772177665064127685880715  3128978777672951913990 
844377478702589172  97  325515028  3241787  32065818848  20624785  82659808  848  825548 
800000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 


exceeds  the  capacity  of  the  system, 
muMATH-79  replies  with  the  word 
FALSE: 

7_300!; 
@  FALSE 


muMATH-79  also  manipulates 
symbolic  expressions  (depending  on 
the  values  of  its  control  variables, 
described  later).  For  example: 


5*X-3*Y12  +  8*X- 
13*X  -  7*Yt2 


■4*Yt2 


Equations  in  muMATH-79  are  often 
hard  to  read.  It  helps  to  write  them 
out  using  pencil  and  paper;  the  above 
5X-3Y2  +  8X-4Y2,     which 


simplified  to  13X  — 7Y2.  Variables  can 
be  used  in  expressions,  where  they 
add  their  symbolic  content  to  the 
expression  being  evaluated: 

7_EXPRl:B  +  4; 
@  4  +  B 


EXPR2:EXPR1  +  C+2*B; 
4  +  3*B  +  C 


was 


A  variable  name  is  called  bound  if 
it  has  a  value  and  unbound  if  it  does 
not.  For  example,  the  variable 
EXPRl,  above,  is  bound  because  it 
has  the  value  B  +  4.  There  are  times, 
however,  when  we  want  a  variable  to 
simply  be  itself.  We  can  change  a 
variable  from  bound  to  unbound  as 
follows  (using  the  example  of 
EXPRl): 


7_  EXPRl; 

@  4  +  B       (EXPRl  is  bound) 
7_  EXPRl: 'EXPRl 
@  EXPRl      (EXPRl  is  now 
unbound) 

Equation  Solving 

In  addition,  some  equations  can  be 
solved.  For  example,  to  solve 

X3  +  2X2-63X  =  0: 

7_SOLVE(Xt3  +  2*Xt 

2-63*X==0,X); 
@  {X  =  7, 
X  -  -9, 

X  ■  0) 

(muMATH-79  uses  the  double  equal 


UCSD  Pascal*  for  the  INTE2TEC  SUPE^BRAIN® 


Certified  by  Softech  Microsystems 
Our  package  includes: 


$400  complete 


operating  system 

compiler 

screen  editor 

filer 

library 


Z80  assembler 

user  manual 

Jensen  &  Wirth  Pascal  Reference  Manual 

Bowles'  Beginners  Guide  to  UCSD  Pascal 


Nocsis  mm^mwm  zm 

615  Third  Street,  San  Francisco,  CA  94107 
Telephone:  (415)  495-7440 


Master  Charge  Accepted 


•Trademark  of  the  Regents  of  the  University  of  California 
T*Trademark  of  Intertec  Data  Systems 


326        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  245  on  inquiry  card. 


Someday  your  computer  is  going  to  break;  even  the  most  reliable 

computer  systems  "go  down".  Often,  finding  exactly  what  is 

wrong  can  account  for  the  most  time  consuming  part  of  repairing 

the  system,  and  the  longer  the  system  is  down,  the  more 

money  you  lose. 

DIAGNOSTICS  I  is  a  complete  program  package  designed  to  check 

every  major  area  of  your  computer,  detect  errors,  and  find  the 

cause  of  most  common  computer  malfunctions,  often  before  they 

become  serious.  For  years,  large  installations  have  run  daily 

or  weekly  diagnostic  routines  as  a  part  of  normal  system 

maintenance  and  check-out  procedures. 

DIAGNOSTICS  I  is  designed  to  provide  that  kind  of  performance 

testing  for  8080/Z80  micro  computers. 

DIAGNOSTICS  I  will  really  put  your  system  through  its  paces.  Each 

test  is  exhaustive  and  thorough.  The  tests  include: 

■  Memory  Test      -CPU  Test  (8080 /8085/Z80 )       -Printer  Test 

■Disk  Test  -CRT  Test 

To  our  knowledge,  this  is  the  first  CPU  test  available  for  8080/Z80 

CPU's.  Many  times  transient  problems,  usually  blamed  on  bad 

memory,  are  really  CPU  errors. 

A  good  set  of  diagnostics  is  an  indispensable  addition  to  your 

program  library  even  if  your  system  is  working  fine.  Hours  have  been 

wasted  trying  to  track  down  a  "program  bug"  when  actually 

hardware  was  to  blame! 

DIAGNOSTICS  I  also  allows  you  to  be  confident  of  your  system. 

This  can  be  critical  when  file  merges  or  sorts  and  backups 

are  involved.  You  want  to  be  as  sure  of  your  computer  as  possible 

during  these  critical  times.  Running  DIAGNOSTICS  I  prior  to 

these  and  other  important  functions  helps  to  insure  that  your 

system  is  operating  at  peak  performance. 

DIAGNOSTICS  I  is  supplied  on  discette  with  a  complete  users  manual. 
DIAGNOSTICS  I:  $60.00       Manual  only.-  $15.00 
Requires:  24K  CP/M;  16K  disc  for  TRS-80 
formats:  CP/M  8"  SOFT  SECTORED,  NORTHSTAR  CP/M 
AND  TRS-80  DOS 


All  Orders  and  General  information: 
SUPERSOFT  ASSOCIATES 
P.O.  BOX  1628 
CHAMPAIGN,  IL  61820 
(217)359-2112 

Technical  Hot  Line:  (217)359-2691 

(answered  only  when  technician  is  available) 


FULL-VIEW  80™ 

by 
Bit  3  COMPUTER 
CORPORATION 


80  X  24  DISPLAY  CARD 


Permits  selection  of  80  column  or  Apple  40  column/graphics  on  a  single 
monitor  via  keyboard  or  program  control  •  Available  character  fonts  include 
7x9,5x7,  orEROM  •  2  K  firmware  on  card  •  Lowest  power  requirement  of  any 
80x24  card  on  the  market  •  User  definable  character  sets  with  the  optional 
EROM  Adaptor  and  a  2716  or  2732  (255  characters!)  EROM  •  7  keyboard 
function  keys  with  pressure  sensitive  adhesive  label  provides  HOME,  HOME 
&  CLEAR,  CLEAR  TO  END  OF  LINE,  CLEAR  TO  END  OF  SCREEN,  CATALOG, 
LOAD  and  RUN  •  Works  with  Apple  II,  Apple  II  Plus,  Apple  Pascal,  Z-80 
Softcard",  and  DC.  Hayes  Micromodem  TM  .  Compatible  with  all  Apple  II 
peripheral  cards  •  Fast  scroll-both  scroll  up  and  scroll  down  -Full  keyboard 
editing  •  127  upper/lower  case  characters  •  Individually  selectable  inverse 
or  normal  characters  •  Real  time  1/60  second  nonmaskable  interrupt  clock 
can  be  software  enabled  to  permit  timing  of  programs  in  background  mode  • 
READ  screen  capability  •  Light-pen  connector  and  light  pen  firmware  support 
•  XY  cursor  positioning  via  GOTO  X,  Y  command  -Blank  screen  command  to 
suppress  video  •  Tab  •  50/60  Hz.  •  80x24  display  memory  is  contained  on 
card  •  Keyboard  Shift- Lock  identified  by  blinking  cursor  Un-shifted  by  non- 
blinking  cursor. 


Apple  II,  Z-80  Softcard,  DC.  Hayes  Micromodem 
registered  trademarks  of  Apple  Computer,  Inc., 
Microsoft  Consumer  Productsand  D.C.  Hayes  Associ- 
ates, Inc.  resp. 

List  Prices:  5x7  or  7x9  $395.00 
Manual  only  $15.00 
See  your  Apple  Dealer  or  contact: 


Bit  3  COMPUTER  CORPORATION 

1890  Huron  St.  •  St.  Paul,  MN  551 13  •  (612)  926-6997 


MCFR  Associates  EXCLUSIVE! 


SURPLUS  COMPUTER  BARGAINS 


8  INCH  FLOPPY  DRIVES 

Used,  removed  from  systems  Mfd.  by  MPI  Division  of 
Control  Data  These  are  the  CDC  floppy!  Includes 
schematics  &  I/O  data.  Sold  'As-ls'  but  complete  and 
whole!  An  incredible  BARGAIN,  easy  to  interface  with 
most  commercial  controllers  Features  "hard"  sectoring. 

...  Only  $229.00*. 
3/S599.00 

Plus  Shipping 


Special  Price   

Buy  3  and  SAVE  BIG!! 


<f^gjj0^ 


'/ 


CASE  STYLE 
MAY  DIFFER 


DAISY  TERMINALS  featuring  the  DIABLO 
HyType  Daisy  Printer.  This  exciting  terminal  features: 
RS232C  ASCII,  110-1 200  BAUD,  KSR  operation  plus  fan- 
tastic PLOTTER  mode  with  bi-directional  horiz.  &  verfl 
movement,  V60"H  &  1/48"V  increments.  15"  platen. 
prints  at  10.  15  &  30  cps!  Uses  plastic  printwheel  and 
has  many  more  exciting  features.  Includes  operator's 
manual  &  schematics.  Used  &  refurbed. 
Now  Only  SI 499.00 

Add  $30  00  lor  Shipping  Crate   Pay  Sh,pping  On  Delivery 


*  SELECTRIC  Typewriter  Terminals 

USED,  off-lease  Features  IBM  Seiectric  Printer  RS232 
I/O.  Takes  BCD  code  type  elements.  Whole  and  com- 
plete. "AS-IS"  (may  need  some  adjustments).  SEE  OUR 
OCT.  1980  ADVERTISEMENT  in  this  magazine.  15" 
carriage,  type  ball  included.  110  VAC  includes  power 
supply.  I/O  and  printer  circuits  and  more. 

Only  $469.00 

Add  S18.00  lor  Shipping  Crate    Pay  Shipping  On  Delivery 
Maintenance  Manuals  Available...  $25.00 

'IBM  Trademark 


GET  YOUR  COPY  OF  OUR  LATEST  FLYER! 

Circle  the  Bingo  Card  Number  or  Send  a  1st  Class  Stamp  for  a  Free  Copy. 


CFR  ASSOCIATES,  INC. 

18  Granite  Street 
Haverhill,  Mass.  01830 


617-372-8536 

Phone  Orders 
Welcome 


Circle  246  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  247  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


327 


When  You  Have  To 
Face  A  Deadline 


Communication  Arts,  Huntington  Beach,  CA 


Arm  Yourself  With 
Pascal/MT+ 


From 


ViSA* 


WIT  Micro  SYSTEMS 


master  charge 


1562  Kings  Cross  Drive 
Cardiff,  California  92007       (714)  753-4856 

We  ship  on  8"  single  density  and  5-1/4"  North  Star  single  density. 
Other  formats  available.  Ask  us. 

CP/M  is  a  registered  trademark  of  Digital  Research       MP/M  is  a  trademark  of  Digital  Research       Pascal/MT*  is  a  registered  trademark  of  MT  Micro  Systems 

Circle  248  on  inquiry  card. 


MT  MicroSYSTEMS  SOFTWARE  ARSENAL: 


Pascal/MT+® 


Screen 
Editor* 

*Contact  us  lor  the  exciting  news  about  this  leap  forward  in  state  of  the  art  technology. 


Pascal/MT+®  provides  you  with  the  power  to  meet  your 
deadlines  head-on!  Compiling  directly  to  native  code  without 
slowing  down  to  generate  P-code  or  assembly  language, 
Pascal/MT+®  generates  ROMable,  optimized  native  code  and 
gives  you  the  flexibility  of  modular  compilation;  and  it  does 
so  at  speeds  up  to  2000  lines  per  minute  while  the  others  are, 
at  best,  one  third  as  fast!  Even  when  you're  not  facing  a 
deadline,  Pascal/MT+®  never  wastes  your  time!  Nobody  likes 
to  wait  for  a  computer.  The  Pascal/MT+®  won't  keep  you 
waiting!  Your  software  written  in  Pascal/MT+®  is  totally 
portable  to  most  8  and  16  bit  processors.  The  Pascal/MT+® 
system  provides  you  with  a  powerful  debugging  tool.  With 
Pascal/MT+®  you  do  have  an  effective  weapon  against 
monstrous  deadlines. 

Pascal  is  the  most  popular  programming  language  in  use 
today.  You  can  use  Pascal/MT+®  to  replace  assembly 
language  in  your  ROM  based  applications,  BASIC  and  COBOL 
in  your  business  applications,  FORTRAN  in  your  scientific 
applications,  or  interpreted  Pascal  in  all  of  yourapplications. 
Because  Pascal  programs  are  easy  to  write,  read,  and 
maintain;  and  because  the  Pascal/MT+®  system  contains  all 
of  the  features  you  need  for  your  applications,  you  can  get 
your  job  done  on  time!  In  fact,  you  may  never  need  assembly 
language  or  any  other  high  level  language  again. 
Pascal/MT+®  has  the  speed,  extensions,  and  portability  to 
stock  your  software  arsenal  for  years  to  come!!! 


ISO  STANDARD  Pascal 

Pascal/MT+®  supports  the  ISO  Standard.  We  send  the  results 
of  our  compiler's  performance  on  the  Validation  Suite.  Also, 
for  portability  the  MT+  compiler  can  warn  you  when  you  are 
using  non-standard  extensions. 


Modular  Compilation 

Pascal/MT+®  generates  the  same  industry  standard  relocat- 
able code  used  in  FORTRAN  and  PL/I.  Both  Pascal  and 
assembly  language  modules  may  be  separately  compiled 
and  then  combined  to  produce  a  final  program.  With  modular 
compilation  available,  the  run  time  overhead  is  as  small  as 
256  bytes  and  is  typically  1200  bytes. 


Native  Code  Generation 

Pascal/MT+®  native  code  is  faster  than  interpreted  Pascal 
and  other  native  code  Pascals  in  benchmark  test  programs. 
Optimization  steps  taken  during  compilation  perform  such 
enhancements  as  removing  redundant  PUSH/POPsequences 
and  using  single  increment  and  decrement  instructions  when 
adding  or  subtracting  small  literal  numbers.  In  addition,  our 
disassembler  interleaves  your  Pascal  source  code  and 
symbolic  assembly  code  to  help  you  write  more  efficient 
programs. 


Extras 

•  Predeclared  arrays  INP  and  OUT  directly  access  I/O  ports. 

•  INLINE  instruction  for  inserting  assembly  language  between  the  Pascal 
statements.  A  built-in  mini  assembler  translates  the  instructions  at 
compile  time.  Constant  tables  may  be  generated  using  the  inline  facility. 

•  ABSOLUTE  assembly  language  procedure  declarations  for  using  pre- 
assembled  routines. 

•  INTERRUPT  procedures. 

•  CHAINING  for  transfering  control  from  one  program  to  another. 

•  ELSE  clause  on  the  case  statement. 

•  REDIRECTED  I/O  facilities  allow  user  written  charade,  level  I/O  drivers  to 
be  called  via  READ  and  WRITE  statements. 

•  HEX  literal  numbers  are  supported. 

•  Built  in  procedures/functions: 
—bit  test,  clear,  set. 

—byte  swap. 

—return  hi  or  lo  byte. 

—Shift  left  and  right. 

—Return  the  address  of  a  data  item  or  routine. 

—Return  the  size  of  a  data  item. 

—Enable,  disable  interrupts. 

—All  standard  file  I/O  plus  random  read  and  write  to  files. 

•  Include  files  supported. 

•  Source  code  for  run-time  package  included. 

•  Business  (18  digit)  arithmetic. 

•  Scientific  (6.5  digit)  arithmetic. 

•  AMD  9511  hardware  support. 

•  Transcendental  functions. 

•  Full  string  capability  (UCSD  compatible). 

Symbolic  Debugger 

Our  symbolic  debugger  is  optionally  linked  into  the  final  program.  If  you're 
tired  of  feeling  like  you're  in  the  dark  when  using  a  higher  level  language,  the 
Pascal/MT+®  debugger  lights  up  the  darkness.  The  debugger  traces  one  or 
more  lines  of  Pascal  code  or  executes  the  program  until  a  line  number  or 
symbolic  breakpoint  is  reached.  To  follow  program  flow  the  name  of  each 
procedure  and  function  entered  is  displayed  by  the  debugger.  The  contents  of 
simple  and  complex  variables  may  be  displayed  by  name.  The  debugger  may 
be  used  in  a  ROM  environment  so  that  program  flow  and  variable  contents  are 
visible. 

Distribution  disk  contains 

•  BCD  compiler  configured  for  your  target  machine. 

•  Floating  point  compiler  configured  for  your  target  machine. 

•  Linker. 

•  Interactive  Symbolic  Debugger. 

•  Run  time  package  in  source  and  object  form. 

•  Pascal  library  and  utility  routines. 

•  Manual  containing  an  Applications  Guide  and  a  Language  Guide. 

•  Sample  programs. 

•  Librarian  program  to  manage  libraries  of  modules. 

System  Requirements 

•  Operating  System:  CP/M®  (or  equivalent  such  as  CDOS,  IMD0S,  etc.) 
MP/M™.  Intel  ISIS  II.  Heath  HDOS,  and  PDP-1 1  systems  to  be  available  soon. 

•  Memory  requirements:  48K  minimum. 

•  Host  Machines:  8080  or  Z80. 

•  Target  Machines:  8080/Z80,  68000,  Z8000,  8086/8088,  6809. 

•  Resident  compilers  for  all  processors  will  be  forthcoming  as  operating 
systems  become  available. 

MT  MicroSYSTEMS  has  a  very  reasonable,  graduated,  one  time  royalty 
arrangement  for  free  standing  software  generated  by  Pascal/MT*® 

Ordering 

8  bit  processor  target  machines: 

8080/Z80,  6809  $250.00  each 

16  bit  processor  target  machines: 

68000,  Z8000,  8086/8088 $500.00  each 

User's  guide  alone 

(refundable  with  system  purchase): $30.00 

Contact  us  for  information  about  our  automatic  update  service. 

Note:  Not  all  16-bit  CPU  code  generators  are  available  at  this  time:  contact  us  for  information 
before  ordering. 

OEM  and  Dealer  inquiries  invited.         circle  248  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  249  on  inquiry  card. 


WORD  PROCESSOR 

and 
REPORT  WRITER 
when  you  buy  this 

CADO  COMPUTER! 

Now  .  . .  own  a  complete 
CADO  business  computer 
and  word  processor  for  about 
the  cost  of  I BM  's  computer- 
only  5120.  It's  the  only  low 
cost  system  that's  multi- 
tasking: you  can  actually 
enter  your  payables  or 
receivables  at  the  same  time 
you  print  perfect  letters  or 
documents. 

CADO  is  the  perfect  way  to 
keep  track  of  things,  too: 
personnel,  sales,  purchase 
orders  . . .  everything.  And 
only  CADO  has  JUST  ASK 
II— the  simple,  programmer- 
less  English  language 
inquiry  system.  It's  free,  too. 
JUST  ASK  1 1  works  with 
Word  Processing  to  auto- 
matically insert  names  and 
facts  in  your  standard  letters. 
And  CADO  has  an  applica- 
tion package  j  ust  for  you. 
Get  all  the  facts  on  the  only 
computer  with  free  word 
processor  and  report  writer 
. . .  from  the  world's  fastest 
growing  computer  company 
. . .  sold  and  serviced  in  over 
150  CADO  offices  worldwide. 

Send  in  the  coupon  NOW! 


CADCX 


CADO  Systems  Corporation 

2771  Toledo  Street  •  Torrance.  C  A  90503 
(213)320-9660  B11 

Please  rush  me  more  information  on 
the  CADO  System  20/22. 


The  most  impressive 
feature  of  muMATH-79  is 
its  ability  to  do  symbolic 
differentiation  and 
integration. 

sign  to  distinguish  it  from  the  single 
equal  sign,  which  is  used  as  a  Boolean 
equality  operator;  the  final  X  in  the 
SOLVE  command  tells  muMATH-79 
to  solve  for  the  variable  X.) 

It  is  also  aware  of  imaginary  and 
complex  numbers  and  uses  the 
variable  §1  to  represent  the  imaginary 
number  u 

7_SOLVE(Xt2  +  l==0,X); 


X  =  #D 

However,  muMATH-79  is  not  intelli- 
gent; it  cannot  solve  equations 
of  order  3  or  higher.  (The  example 
with  the  X3  polynomial  is  seen  by 
muMATH-79  as  being  of  order  2, 
with  a  zero  factor  added.)  Factoring 
is  hard  even  for  people,  but 
muMATH-79  can  aid  you  in  factor- 
ing a  higher-order  polynomial. 

Trigonometric  and  Logarithmic 
Manipulation 

With  the  addition  of  these  packages 
to  the  muMATH-79  system,  the  user 
can  manipulate  logarithmic  and 
trigonometric  expressions.  Manipula- 
tion of  these  expressions  varies  with 
the  values  of  certain  control 
variables. 

For  example,  if  the  trigonometric 
expansion  variable  TRGEXPD  is  0: 

7_  SIN(5*Y); 
@  SIN(5*Y) 


But  if  TRGEXPD  is  -6  (denoting 
expansion  of  multiple-angle  sine  and 
cosine  functions): 


]_  SIN(5*Y); 

@  -12*COS(Y)t2*SIN(Y) 

+  16*COS(Y)t4*SIN(Y) 

+  SIN(Y) 


The  functions  available  are  LN 
(logarithm  to  the  base  e),  LOG 
(logarithms  to  other  bases),  SIN, 
COS,  TAN,  COT,  SEC,  and  CSC. 
And  muMATH-79  uses  the  variable 
#E  (for  e)  and  #PI  (for  x). 


Matrix  Manipulations 

The  math  system  can  also 
manipulate  matrices.  Matrices  can  be 
multiplied  (or  divided)  by  a  matrix  or 
a  scalar,  transposed,  inverted,  and 
taken  to  an  integer  power.  If  a  matrix 
is  nonsingular  (ie:  its  inverse  does  not 
exist),  muMATH-79  responds  to  an 
attempt  to  invert  it  with  divide-by- 
zero  error  messages.  If  the  matrix  can 
be  inverted,  the  coefficients  of  its 
inverse,  if  nonintegral,  are  expressed 
as  fractions — that  is,  the  inverse  is 
algebraically  exact.  For  an  example  of 
this,  see  listing  2. 

Matrix  operations  are  fast  as  well 
as  exact.  The  inversion  of  matrix  H  in 
listing  2  took  5  seconds,  and  the 
inversion  of  a  5-by-5  matrix  took  48 
seconds.  Since  matrix  entries  are  sym- 
bolic, the  entries  can  be  scalars  or 
matrices.  This  allows  the  formation 
of  complex  data  structures  that  can  be 
manipulated  by  muMATH-79. 

Differentiation  and  Integration 

The  most  impressive  feature  of 
muMATH-79  is  its  ability  to  do  sym- 
bolic differentiation  and  integration. 
For  example,  if  we  differentiate  1/X3 
with  respect  to  X,  we  get  —  3X~4. 
muMATH-79  accomplishes  the  task 
as  follows: 

J?_DIF(l/Xt3,X); 
@  -3  /  X14 


Listing  2:  Matrix  inversion  and  multi- 
plication in  muMATH-79.  Listing  2a 
shows  the  creation  of  the  2  by  2  matrix  H. 
Listing  2b  shows  the  creation  of  the  in- 
verse of  H,  HINV.  Listing  2c  shows  the 
multiplication  of  two  compatible  matrices 
using  a  period  (.)  as  the  muMATH-79 
matrix  multiplication  operator. 

(2a) 

2_  H:{ [380,-115/2], [17,109]}; 

@  ([380,  -115/2], 
[17,  109]) 

(2b) 
J?_HINV:H"-1; 

@  {[218/84795,  23/16959], 
[-34/84795,  152/16959]} 

(2c) 
?_H.HINV; 

g  {[1,  0], 
[0,  1]} 


330        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  250  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  251  on  inquiry  card. 


DIG  I  AC 


MAPS  1 000 


MP/M'S 

HARDWARE 

PARTNER 


>  .*        %«P> 


•  g  Jiff  IB  |i 

"wjriiit 


'The  Dlglac  MAPS-1000  MP/M"  Universal  Support  Module 
has  been  designed  to  meet  the  total  demands  required  by 
Digital  Research's  MP/M  multi-user,  multi-tasking 
operating  system.  All  Input/output,  Interrupt  generation 
for  task  switching,  and  disk  bootstrapping  are  resident 
functions  on  the  MAPS-1000. 

'The  MAPS-1000  has  been  designed  with  all  the  following 
powerful  features: 

•  Four  (4)  independent  RS-232C  Serial  Communication 
channels  •  One  8  bit  TTL  parallel  port  •  On-board 
phantom  controlled  disk  boot  prom/monitor  •  Power 
on  jump  capability  •  Crystal  controlled  MP/M  interrupt 
generation  Logic  •  On  board  extended  memory  bank 
switching  Logic 

*  MAPS-1000  fully  assembled  and  tested 
introductory  price.  .  .  .$375.00 


DIGIAC  CORPORATION 

175  Engineers  Road 
Smithtown,  New  York  11787 
Phone  (516)  273-8600 
MP/M  is  a  trademark  of  the 
Digital  Research  Corporation 


DIUIACJ 

:CORPORATION 


HEATH 


H9 


OWNERS 


UPGRADE     your     H9     for    a    fraction    of    the 
cost   of    a     new    terminal    with    these    features. 

rL.CK.EK    FREE  $69.95  kit    $79.95  assembled 

If  Columbus  would  have  had  to  wait  for  his  H9  operating  at  600  baud,  he  might  not  have 
discouvered  America.  At  last  your  computer  can  communicate  with  your  H9  eight  times 
faster  I4800  baud)  without  that  annoying  refresh  Interrupt  that  causes  the  screen  toflash 
at  rates  greater  than  600  baud.  Faster  listings.  Faster  program  execution.  Eight  times 
faster. 

L  U  K5UK        LUm    I    KUL  $29.95    KIT      $  34.95     ASSEMBLED 

Why  limit  your  output  to  consecutive  lines  ot  your  terminal?  CURSOR  CONTROL  al- 
lows your  computer  to  move  the  cursor  anywhere  on  the  screen.  Add  that  professional 
touch  to  your  displays  by  utilizing  masking  techniques.  Functions  included  are;  left, 
right,     up,     down,     left    and    right    20    spaces,    home    and    erase    page. 

OKArlA  $59.95    KIT      $69.95     ASSEMBLED 

Open  a  whole  new  world  to  your  output.  The  graphical  display  capabilities  of  GRAFIX 
allow     you    to    create    displays    never    before    possible    on    the    H9. 

LUWt  K    LA  be    ENTRY  $28.bb  assembled 

Now  you  can  enter  lower  case  characters  from  the  keyboard.  A  Shift  Lock  key  allows 
the  keyboard  to  operate  as  the  standard  H9  keyboard  or  to  generate  upper  and  lower 
case    depending    upon   the    Shilt    key    as    per    a   normal    typewriter. 


LOWER   CASE   DISPLAY 

Lower    case    capabilities    greatly   improve    readability    on    te 

KEY   CAPS 

These  quality   canto. 

Full  Six   Month    Warranty  —  24  Line  Compatible 


S34.77     ASSEMBLED 
lodified    for    24  lines. 


$12.50  SET  4    ARROWS    $1.00 

These  quality   contour   key  caps    have    molded-in    alphanumerics.     For    that    professional   feel. 


Northwest   Computer  Services,  Inc. 

8503    N.E.  30th   Ave. 

Vancouver,     WA       98665 

(206)  573-8381 


*H9   is  a  registered  trademark   of   Heath   Co 


MASTER    CARD    and    VISA    welc 


The  Ultimate  Application  Development  System 

Our  Selector-IV™  data  base  management  system  win  let  your  micro- 
computer operate  with  the  flexibility  available  (up  to  now)  only  on  larger 
systems.  You  can  create,  maintain  and  report  on  files  limited  in  size  only  by 
your  *CP/M™  compatible  operating  system  or  disk  storage  capacity. 

The  basis  of  the  power  of  Selector-IV™  is  our  unique  method  of  cross- 
indexing  the  information  in  your  files.  You  can  immediately  recall  records  by 
the  contents  of  any  piece  of  information  required  -  from  account  numbers  to 
ZIP  codes  to  the  date  of  your  last  audit.  You  can  update  records,  individually  or 
all  at  once.  You  can  create  new,  uniquely,  selected  sub-files  from  existing  ones 
(in  the  same  or  a  different  format),  and  perform  computations  in  the  process. 
You  can  define  procedures  to  generate  computed  invoices,  personalized  letters, 
or  gummed  labels  with  the  information  coming  from  several  files  at  once, 
and  invoke  them  whenever  needed.  You  can  add  new  items  to  a  record  definition 
and  change  or  delete  them  at  will. 

We've  come  a  long  way  since  we  released  the  first  information  management 
system  in  microcomputers.  We've  built  screen  editing  functions  into  the 
system  which  make  operating  the  system  as  convenient  as  possible.  We've  had 
Selector-XV's™  documentation  produced  by  our  experts  emphasizing  its  use 
for  the  novice,  the  applications  developer,  as  well  as,  the  retailer.  Our  appli- 
cations specialists  can  provide  you  with  a  "turnkey"  Selector-TV™  system 
customized  for  virtually  any  requirement. 

With  Selector-IV™  and  a  good  word  processor  program,  chances  are  you 
won't  need  any  other  software.  Look  for  Selector-IV™  at  » 

your  local  computer  retailer,  or  call:  ^^H 

MICRO*AP,  INC. 

9807  Davona  Dr.,  San  Ramon,  GA  94583 

C415)  828-6697  MICROAP 

•CP/M  is  a  registered  trademark  of  Digital  Research. 
Circle  252  on  inquiry  card. 


yOU  DIDNT  KNOW! 


OAE'S  new  PP-2708/16 
PROM  Programmer  is  the 
only  programmer  with  all 
these  features: 

•  Converts  a  PROM  memory 
socket  to  a  table  top  pro- 
grammer: No  complex  inter- 
facing to  wire  — just  plug  it 
into  a  2708  memory  socket* 
A  short  subroutine  sends 
data  over  the  address  lines 
to  program  the  PROM 
Programs  2  PROMS  for  less 
than  the  cost  of  a  personal- 
ity module.  (2708s  and  TMS 
2716s) 

•  Connect  2  or  more  in  paral- 
lel —  super  for  production 
programming 

Complete  with   DC  to   DC 
switching  invertor  and  10 


Circle  253  on  inquiry  card. 


'  *Pat's  Pending 


turn  cermet  trimmers  (for 
precision  pulse  width  and 
amplitude  alignment) 

•  All  packaged  in  a  handsome 
aluminum  case 

PP-2708/16.  .  .A  &T  $349.95 

PP-2716  (Programs  Intel's 
2716 A  &  T  $324.95 

OAE 

Oliver  Advanced  Engineering,  Inc. 

676  West  Wilson  Avenue 

Glendale,  Calif.  91203 

(213)  240-0080 


BYTE  November  1980         331 


CROSS-ASSEMBLERS 

WRITTEN  III  ANSI  FORTBAH  IV 
PACKAGE  MO.  MACHIMEIS) 

xasmssoo  Mciaoo.02,08 

XASMIS01  MC8801 

XASM680S  MC6605 

XASM8808  MC6809 

XASM80SS  8080,8085 

XASM1802  CDP1802 

XASM8S02  6500  FAMILY 

Full  instruction  set,  all  addressing  modes.  Free  format  input, 
relocatable  listing  and  object  module,  many  user-selectable 
assembly  options.  6-character  labels,  arithmetic  expressions  in 
operands,  long  error  messages,  high  execution  speed. 

Full-capability  assemblers  run  on  almost  any  system  suppor 
ting  ANSI  standard  FORTRAN  IV,  1 966  or  later,  at  a  fraction  of 
the  cost  of  a  separata  development  system. 

FORTRAN  SOURCE  MFOIA  PRICE 

MAGNETIC  TAPE  PACKAGE S75.00 

PUNCHED  CARD  PACKAGE $50.00 

MANUAL/LISTING  ALONE $20.00 

Packages  include  manual/listing,  shipping  in  U.S.A.  For  cards. 
specify  punch  code.  For  tape,  specify  code,  BPI,  block  size. 

I  mi  J|  P.O.  Box  14538 

III  IVI  Minneapolis,  MN  55414 

llaflWI  (0121-722  1702 


Circle  254  on  inquiry  card. 


JSET,  Paid 

for  using  your 
Computer  *§ 

FUN'  Easv        ttSDv 

RUSH  COUPON  FOR    ^ 
FREE  FACTS 

GP^SPARETIME 

Send  today  to  —  OAR-B1 1  • 
209-5  Kenroy,  Rosevllle,  CA  95678 


Circle  255  on  inquiry  card. 


e 

CO 

© 

es 

tallati 

vice 

1     * 

Is"    CO 

00  x 

CO    °>    0) 

to  B  if> 

o            £ 

i  a 

°            H 

coo 

t 

<E 

Ul 

ft 

a 

^S 

3 

L    CO 

UJ 
XL 
t-i 

(O  o 

5° 

0  2 

1 

Z 

CD 

w' 

«S  o 

<2 

a 

o 

2 
>■  M 

H 

B 

L±J 

N 

m  -i 

(0 

■XL 

CO 

a 

H 

h-t 

o 
ui£ 

■j 

U 

£ 

CO' 

S  5 

CD       . 
£:    co 

4 

•i     K 

i 

til 

CO  TJ 

CP 

Ml 

U. 

i:    ra 

u. 

(1l 

HI 

III 

* 

o  c 

CO     CO 

>> ' 

> 

Ml 

S  5 

Circle  256  on  inquiry  card. 


Listing  3:  Algebraic  intergration  in  muMATH-79.  Listing  3a  shows  the  creation  of  the 
function  FC1,  which  equals  Xz  +  ln(X).  Listing  3b  shows  the  calculation  of  the  indefinite 
integral  of  FC1,  while  listing  3c  shows  the  calculation  of  its  definite  integral  from  e  to  2e. 
(See  the  text  for  these  two  equations  written  in  conventional  form.) 


(3a)         ?    FCl:X-2+LN(X); 
@   X"2    +   LN(X) 

(3b)       J?_INT(FC1,X); 

@    -X   +   X*LN(X)    +    X"-3/3 

(3c)        _?_DEFINT(FC1,X,#E,2*#E); 

@    -2*#E    +    2*#E*LN(2*#E)    +    7*#E~3/3 


It  works  with  the  resources  of 
whatever  packages  are  loaded  into  it 
at  the  time.  For  example,  if  the  trigo- 
nometric package  is  loaded, 
muMATH-79  can  do  the  following: 

JLDIF(COT(2*X),X); 
@  -2  *  CSC(2*X)t2 


which  translates  as: 

■£-  cot  2X  =  -2  csc2(2X) 
dX 

Indefinite  and  definite  integrals  are 
also  within  muMATH's  capabilities. 
The  definite  integral  is  calculated  by 
simple  substitution  of  the  integral 
limits  into  the  result  of  the  indefinite 
integration,  in  much  the  same  process 
a  person  performs.  If  muMATH-79 
cannot  do  this,  it  simply  returns  the 
indefinite  integral.  Listing  3  shows 
its  calculation  of  the  following  two 
integrals: 


$X2  +  ln(X)  dX  = 

£+Xin(X)-X+C 


that  rigorously  applies  a  given  set  of 
rules  to  arrive  at  a  transformed  result. 
But  achieving  a  desired  algebraic 
manipulation  is  not  always  an  exact 
process. 

For  example,  consider  the  trivial 
example  given  in  figure  la.  If  the 
denominator  is  distributed  over  the 
numerator,  the  result  is  the  expres- 
sion in  figure  lb.  But  if  we  factor  the 
numerator  first,  the  discovered  factor 
of  (X+l)  in  the  numerator  cancels  the 
(X+l)  in  the  denominator,  leaving 
the  simplified  answer  in  figure  lc. 

muMATH-79  cannot  make  these 
decisions;  it  is  a  tool,  not  a  problem 
solver.  So  certain  variables  called 
control  variables  are  introduced  into 
its  environment.  Under  human  con- 
trol, these  variables  are  used  to  tell 
muMATH-79  what  manipulations  to 
make. 


(a) 
(b) 
(c) 


(X+1) 


and 


(X  +  1)  T  (X+1) 

X3  +  X2  X2(X  +  1  ) 

(X+1)       -         (X+1) 


\l'x2  +  ln(X)dX  = 
^-+2eln(2e)-2c 


muMATH-79  Control  Variables 

The  package  does  not  exhibit 
artificial  intelligence.  (Although  with 
some  of  its  accomplishments,  it  seems 
to  exhibit  it.)  Rather,  it  is  a  very 
sophisticated    symbol    manipulator 


Figure  1:  Options  in  the  transformation 
of  an  algebraic  expression.  The  simple 
expression  in  figure  la  can  be  transformed 
to  that  of  figure  lb  by  distributing  the 
denominator  over  the  terms  of  the 
numerator.  A  more  useful  transforma- 
tion, however,  is  shown  in  figure  lc.  By 
factoring  out  a  term  of  X2  and  cancelling 
out  the  (X+l)  factor  in  both  numerator 
and  denominator,  the  expression  can  be 
considerably  simplified. 


Circle  257  on  inquiry  card. 


Payroll 

General  Ledger 
Accounts  Payable 
Accounts  Receivable 

Flexible  and  sophisticated  business  software  that  is  of 
the  highest  quality.  Originally  developed  by  Osborne 
&  Associates  and  rapidly  becoming  a  standard.  Ac- 
countants are  pleased  with  our  balance  sheets  and 
income  statements.  It  has  been  tested  and  approved 
by  secretaries. 

•  Complete  instructions  •  Return  within  30  days 

•  Up  and  running  the  tor  complete  refund  if 
same  day  of  delivery.             not  satisfied. 

•  100%  guaranteed  •  No  licensing 

•  Unlimited  free  agreement  — use  as 
telephone  assistance.  you  want. 

Accounts  Receivable  $145.00 

Accounts  Payable  $145.00 

Payroll-California  $145.00 

Payroll-Non  California  state 
income  tax  calculations 

(add  to  California  payroll)  $125.00 

General  Ledger    $145.00 

Multiple  profit  center  option 

for  general  ledger  $  50.00 

Manuals  (each)    $  20.00 

Formats:  Any  8"  single  or  double  density.  TRS-80  Mod  II.  Northstar 
DD,  Vector  Grophics,  Super  Brain,  many  others. 
Runs  on  Beehive,  Soroc.  Hazeltine,  ADDS.  Televideo,  SOL,  TRS-80 
Mod  II,  HEATH,  ACT  V,  Intertube  II,  Altos,  ADM  and  many  other 
terminals.  All  programs  in  CBASIC  under  CP/M  (includes  source). 

Synergetic  Computer  Products 

575  Middlefield  Avenue  Suite  J,  Palo  Alto,  CA  94301 
(415)  328-5391 

VISA  •  Master  Charge  •  COD  •  Company  Check 

TRS-80  is  a  trademark  ol  Radio  Shack,  Inc  CP/M  is  a  trademark  of  Digital  Research 


NOBODY  DOES  IT  LIKE 


l 


I 


\ 


V 


HAZELTINE 
1420 

.VIDEO  TERMINAL 

s775°° 


HAZELTINE 
1500 

VIDEO  TERMINAL 


SYNCHRO-SOUND  enterprises  ini 

The  Computer  People   ■      phone  ORDERS.  CALL: 

193-25  Jamaica  Avenue   I  New  York— 212/468-7067 

Jamaica.  N.Y.  11423  Los  Angeles-213/628-1808 

Chicago-312/641-3010 
■         Dalias-214/742-6090 


Desoldering 
Systems 


MODEL  PC-10:  Finger  Controlled       REMOVE  ANY  COMPONENT 

FROM  ANY  PCB 
.  .  .  QUICKLY  AND  SAFELY 


MODEL  PC-20 
Footpedal  Controlled 


STANDARD  SYSTEM  FEATURES 

■  Lightweight  and  Portable 

■  Internal  Vacuum  Pump 

■  Sodr-X-Tractor  Handpiece 

■  Variable  Temperature  Control 


INCORPORATED 

9893  Brewers  Court  ■  Laurel,  Md.  20810  ■  phone  (301)  490-9860 


Circle  258  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  259  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980         333 


Although  an  explanation  of  the 
intricacies  of  control  variables  is 
beyond  the  scope  of  this  review,  the 
topic  does  deserve  some  explanation. 
Table  1  is  a  list  of  the  control 
variables  and  their  effects  on 
algebraic  expressions.  Table  2  shows 
the  effect  of  one  control  variable, 
NUMNUM,  on  expressions.  (Most 
control   variables  behave   similarly, 


with  positive  values  causing  an 
expansion  of  terms  to  take  place  and 
negative  values  causing  a  combina- 
tion of  terms  to  take  place.) 

Generating  a  muMATH-79 
System 

Because  muMATH-79  can  poten- 
tially use  more  than  64  K  bytes  of 
memory,  the  system  is  supplied  as  a 


Control 
Variable 

NUMNUM 

DENDEN 

DENNUM 

NUMDEN 

BASEXP 
EXPBAS 
PWREXPD 


Result  with 
Positive  Value 

A(B  +  C)-AB  +  AC 

A  v    B  +  C   ' 

B  +  C     .    B.   C. 
A  A       A 


1 


AB  +  AC 


Result  with 
Negative  Value 

AB  +  AC-A(B  +  C) 

3 J-(. 

AB  +  AC  A  v 

JL  +  C.  _   B  +  C 


B  +  C 


B  +  C 


_i  +  C_ 
A       A 


(AB)C-ACBC 
(A+B)2-A2  +  2AB+B2 

(A+B)3-A3  +  3A2B  +  B3 
(etc) 


_B  +  C 
A      A 

A'AC-AK 

ACBC-(AB)C 

(A  +  B)"2-- 


B  +  C 


1 


(A'  +  2AB  +  B') 


(A  +  Bf- 


1 


AJ  +  3A'B  +  3AB2  +  B" 
(etc) 


Table  1:  The  effect  of  control  variables  on  symbolic  manipulation  within 
muMATH-79.  The  values  given  to  these  control  variables  determine  how 
muMATH-79  manipulates  algebraic  expressions.  Other  control  variables  not  listed 
in  this  table  are  TRGSQ,  TRGEXPD,  LOGBAS,  PBRCH,  and  LOGEXPD,  which 
control  trigonometric  and  logarithmic  expressions. 


Value  of 
NUMNUM 

Transformation 

Example 

0 

do  nothing 

3A(B  +  CXD  +  E)-  3A(B  +  CXD  +  E) 

2  and  its 
multiples 

distribute  constants 
over  sums 

-A(3B  +  3CXD  +  E) 

3  and  its 

distribute  monomials 

-3(AB  +  ACXD  +  E) 

multiples 

over  sums 

5  and  its 
multiples 

distribute  sums 
over  sums 

-3A(D(B  +  C)+E(B  +  C)) 

6  ( =  2.3) 

distribute  constants 
and  monomials 
over  sums 

-(3AB  +  3ACXD  +  E) 

10  (  =  2«5) 

distribute  constants 
and  sums  over  sums 

-  A(D(3B  +  3C)  +  E(3B  +  3C)) 

15  (  =  3-5) 

distribute  monomials 
and  sums  over  sums 

-  3(ABD  +  ABE  +  ACD  +  ACE) 

30  (  =  2.3*5) 

distribute  constants, 
monomials,  and 
sums  over  sums 

-  3ABD  +  3ABE  +  3ACD  +  3ACE 

-2,-3,-6 

same  as  2,  3,  6, 

only  factor  out  instead 

of  distribute 

NUMNUM  =  -3  causes 
3AB  +  3AC-A(3B  +  3C) 

Table  2:  A  detailed 
algebraic  expressions 

example  of  the  effect  of  the  control  variable  NUMNUM  on 
.  NUMNUM  is  so  named  because  it  controls  the  distribution  or 

factoring  of  a  numerator  expression  with  the 
Positive  values  cause  a  factor  to  be  distributed 
cause  factoring  a  common  value  from  a  sum. 

numerator  expression  containing  it. 
across  a  sum,  while  negative  values 

series  of  packages  that  can  be  com- 
bined to  create  an  optimal  environ- 
ment for  a  given  purpose.  Figure  2 
shows  a  dependency  diagram  from 
the  muMATH-79  packages  as  they 
are  supplied.  To  run  a  given  package, 
you  must  load  that  package  and  all 
the  packages  above  it.  For  example, 
to  manipulate  algebraic  and 
logarithmic  expressions,  you  must 
load  the  file  named  MUSIMP79 
(which  loads  MUSMORE  automati- 
cally), ARITH,  ALGEBRA,  and 
LOG,  in  that  order.  To  solve  equa- 
tions that  use  logarithmic  expres- 
sions, you  would  add  to  the  above 
the  files  EQN  and  SOLVE. 

Of  course  you  would  like  to  have 
all  the  packages  available  at  once. 
Unfortunately,  due  to  the  large  size  of 
the  packages,  this  cannot  be  done.  A 
32  K-byte  system  is  necessary  to  run 
anything  in  muMATH-79,  but  more 
memory  is  recommended.  It  takes 
40  K  bytes,  for  example,  to  run 
algebra  and  48  K  bytes  to  run  either 
calculus  or  matrix  algebra. 

A  muMATH-79  system  is  first 
generated  and  then  saved  for  future 
loading  into  the  same  system.  Each 
package  takes  1  to  5  minutes  to  load, 
given  a  Z80  system  running  at 
4  MHz;  loading  time  will  be  propor- 
tional to  the  speed  of  the  processor 
being  used. 

Another  method  of  loading,  called 
condensation,  takes  from  10  minutes 
to  1  hour  per  module  to  load,  but  it 
has  the  advantage  of  loading  the  same 
module  in  just  over  half  as  much 
memory.  At  BYTE  Publications  Inc, 
we  are  running  a  condensed  system  in 
56  K  bytes  that  includes  all  the 
muMATH-79  packages  except 
TRACE,  ARRAY,  and  MATRIX.  It 
took  an  afternoon  to  set  up  the 
system,  but  the  time  was  well  spent, 
because  all  the  packages  interact  with 
each  other.  However,  problem  solu- 
tion time  decreases  with  increased 
unused  memory.  Decreasing  the 
number  of  packages  used  would 
probably  cut  the  solution  times  of 
problems,  but  so  far  the  delays 
encountered  have  been  hardly  objec- 
tionable. 

The  muSIMP-79  Language 

An  unexpected  benefit  of  the 
muMATH-79  package  is  the  inclusion 
of  the  muSIMP-79  language. 
muMATH-79  as  supplied  is  actually  a 
series  of  source  files  written  in 
muSIMP-79.  Inclusion  of  the  source 
files  allows  you  the  very  important 


334        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  260  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  261  on  inquiry  card. 


IEEE-488  BUS 

SYSTEM  BUILDING  BLOCKS 

For  Commodore  PET/CBM  and  other  computers. 


TNW-2000 


TNW-1000      Serial  Interface:  $129 

1  channel  output  only 

TNW-2000       Serial  Interface:  $229 

1  channel  input  ana  output 

TNW-232D      Dual  Serial  Interface:  $3$9 

TNW-103 
SOFTWARE 


2  channels  input  and  output  plus  RS-232  control  lines 

Telephone  Modem:  $389 

Auto  answer/auto  dial.  Use  with  DAA 

PTERM:  A  program  that  turns  vour  PET  into  a  terminal 
{Use  with  TNW-2000,  TNW-232D,  or  TNW  103] 

SWAP:  Allows  storage  ot  up  to  8  programs  in  PET 
memory  at  once  Run  them  in  any  order 

PAN:  A  sophisticated  electronic  mail  program 
{use  with  TNW-103) 


TNW 


CORPORATION 


Write  or  call  for  Information  today: 

TNW  Corporation 
3351  Hancock  Street 
San  Diego  CA  92110 

(714)  225-1040 


DECLSM1 
Components 

Dependable  service 
at  discount  prices 

Domestic 
and  Export 


I  111  I 

I 

HIM 

ILL 
iiT 

mini  I) 

Computer  Suppliers,  Inc. 

25  Chatham  Rd.,  Summit,  N.J.  07901 

Since  1973 

(201)  277-6150    Telex  13-6476 


©Mini  Computer  Suppliers,  Inc. 
1979 


SPECTACULAR 

Offers 


BASF  "FLEXYDISK" 
Superior  quality 
data  storage  medium, 
certified  and 
guaranteed  100% 
error  free. 


5V4"or  8"*  *fr*Mm 

Diskettes  . . . . .  .10/  $2411 

5V4"  or  8"  Vinyl  i 

Storage  Pages         1 0/  $  O 

Write  for  quantity  discounts 
*Single  sided  /  Single  Density 


■wB 


SFD  CASSETTES 
"Super  Ferro  Dynamic" 
Using  the  finest 
Agfa  PE  61 1  tape 
in  a  professional 
quality  housing. 


C-1 0  Cassette 
Sonic  Weld 
Housing 


10/ 


$7 


Add  IOC  p.  cassette  for  5  screw  housing 

Cassette  Album      .   -    QQ 
Page 91  .  o" 

Write  for  quantity  discounts 


LIBRARY  CASE 
3-ring  binder  album. 
Protects  your  valuable 
programs  on  disks  or 
cassettes.  Fully 
enclosed  and 
protected  on  all  sides 
similar  to  Kas-sette 
storage  box. 


Library  3-ring  binder   $6.50 

5V4"mini  Kas-sette  10/$2.49 
8"    Kas-sette    10/S2.99 


Write  for  quantity  discounts 


j^J-j 


DISKETTE  DRIVE 
head  cleaning  kits 
prevent  head 
crashes  and  insure 
efficient  error- 
free  operation. 


5V«"  or  8"  KIT 

INTRODUCTORY 
PRICE 
$19.50 


HARDHOLE  8"  applicator    S4.00 

reinforcing  ring  of       5%"  applicator $3.00 

tough  mylar  protects  g..        ,ar  hardho|es  (50)  .  $8.00 
damage  5V'"  mVlar  hardholes  (SO)  $6.00 


ABM 


PRODUCTS 
631  "B"  St 
San  Diego, 
CA  92101 
(714)  235-6602 


VISA  •  MASTERCHARGE  •  MONEY  ORDERS 
CERTIFIED  CHECK  •  FOR  PERSONAL  CHECKS 
ALLOW  2  WEEKS  •  CO.D.  REQUIRES  A  10% 
DEPOSIT  •  CAL  RES.  ADD  6%  SALES  TAX 
MIN.  $2  SHIPPING  81  HANDLING  •  MINIMUM 
I  ORDER  $10  •  SATISFACTION  GUARANTEED 
OR  FULL  REFUND. 


The  WORKSHEET  Problem-Solving  Language 

Want  to  play  "What-if '?  Want  to  do  Real  Estate  Analysis, 
Family  Budgeting;,  Taxes,  Company  Cash  Flow;  want  to 
evaluate  the  effect  of  changing  assumptions  on  complex 
and  interrelated  processes?  WORKSHEET  is  a  powerful 
language  designed  for  the  purpose  of  writing  programs  to 
solve  these  and  all  other  programs  that  involve  a  row- 
column  "spreadsheet".  Even  non-programmers  are  solving 
complicated  problems(e.g.,  the  loads  on  a  bridge  as  a  train 
progresses  across  it)  within  the  first  day!  For  use  with 
MicroSoft  Basic  or  with  North  Star  Basic  under  CP/M 
(please  specify). 

WORKSHEET  Language  disk  (5"  or  8"  CP/M)  $99.95 
Manual  only  19.95 

NORTH  STAR  BASIC-CP/M 

Fabulous  North  star  Basic  Meets 
The  Industry  Standard  CP/M  Operating  System 

North  Star  Basic  users  are  switching  to  CP/M — all  over 
the  world — and  we  made  it  possible!  The  software  pro- 
fessionals at  the  SoHo  group  present  The  MATCHMAKER, 
an  easy-to-use  conversion  which  enables  North  Star  owners 
who  also  own  the  CP/M  operating  system  to  gain  the  full 
power  of  their  North  Star  Basic,  running  under  CP/M. 
You'll  have  dynamic  file  allocation,  automatic  file  creation 
and  extension,  and  automatic  reuse  of  deleted  files,  all 
under  the  control  of  the  powerful  instruction  set  of  the 
outstanding  North  Star  Basic  interpreter.. 
Installation  takes  about  30  minutes  and  involves  no  dis- 
assembly or  machine  coding.  Every  powerful  feature  of 
both  systems  is  maintained  with  this  professional  piece  of 
software.  And  the  instructions  are  COMPLETE  and  easy 
to  follow. 

The  MATCHMAKER  $89.95  ppd. 

Manual  only  9.95  ppd. 

The  SoHo  Group 

140  Thompson  St.,  Suite  4-B 

New  York,  NY  10012 

Note:  CP/M,  Microsoft,  and  North  Star  are  registered  trademarks  of  Digital 
Research.  Microsoft,  and  North  Star  Computers,  respectively. 


Circle  262  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  263  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


335 


MUSIMP79 
(+MUSMORE) 


FOR    DEBUGGING 
MU-SIMP    PROGRAMS 


Figure  2:  Functional  dependency  chart  for 
the  packages  in  muMATH-79.  To  run  any 
package  shown  here,  muSIMP-79  and  all 
the  packages  connecting  it  to  that  desired 
package  must  be  compiled  to  make  a 
custom  muMATH-79  system. 


ARITHMETIC 


USED   TO    BUILD 
MATRICES 


ALGEBRA 


MANIPULATION 
OF    EXPRESSIONS 
USING    VARIABLES 


MATRIX 
OPERATIONS- 
MULTIPLICATION, 
INVERSION,  ETC. 


EQN 


MANIPULATION 
OF    EQUATIONS 


SOLVE 


SOLUTION 

OF    EQUATIONS 


LOG 


LOGARITHMIC 
FUNCTIONS 


DIFFERENTIATION 


POSITIVE 

TRIGONOMETRIC 

FUNCTIONS 


TRGNEG 


NEGATIVE 

TRIGONOMETRIC 

FUNCTIONS 


SOLUTION    OF 

INDEFINITE 

INTEGRALS 


option  of  changing  or  adding  to 
muMATH-79  by  changing  existing 
muSIMP-79  programs  (ie:  packages) 
or  adding  your  own. 

muSIMP-79  is  a  variation  of  the 
well-known  list-processing  language 
LISP;  it  has  been  adapted  for  read- 
ability and  optimized  for  the 
manipulation  of  symbolic  expres- 
sions. Considering  that  the  entire 
capabilities  of  muMATH-79  are 
based  on  the  use  of  the  muSIMP-79 


language,     the     availability     of 
muSIMP-79  is  a  definite  advantage. 

D  ocumentation 

The  muSIMP/muMATH-79  Sym- 
bolic Math  System  comes  with  all  its 
associated  files  on  floppy  disk  and  its 
printed  documentation  in  a  three-ring 
binder.  There  are  about  175  pages  of 
printed  documentation  in  the 
reference  manual,  with  tabbed  sec- 
tions marked  General  Information, 


INTMORE 


MORE    COMPLEX 
INTEGRATION, 
PLUS    DEFINITE 
INTEGRALS 


Calculator-Mode  Lessons,  Program- 
ming-Mode  Lessons,  muSIMP-79, 
Arithmetic,  Algebra,  Equation, 
Matrix,  Log  and  Trig,  and  Calculus. 
All  of  the  sections  consist  of  either 
documentation  or  source  code  for  a 
particular  package,  both  of  which  are 


Never  so  fast . . .  Never  so  easy! 


3D  Animation  for  the  Apple  1 1 


With  SubLOGIC's  A2-3D1  high-speed  3D      Cassette  $45  or  disk  $55.  See  your 


animation  package  for  your  Apple,  you 
can  •  generate  scenes  or  drawings 

•  view  them  from  any  distance  or  angle 
and,  yes  •  even  rotate  them.  All  you 
need  is  16K  RAM  and  the  creative  urge. 

116  pages  of  documentation  included 
to  guide  the  beginner  through  scene 
creation,  storage,  retrieval,  movement, 
and  advanced  applications. 

Special  Features:  | 

•  100-150  lines-per-second  projection  rate    i 

•  Dual  page  flicker  free  animation 

•  Scenes  created  with  standard  coordinates 

•  Easy  use  with  BASIC  programs 


dealer  or  order  direct  (include  $1.75 
for  UPS  or  $2.50  for  first  class  mail). 
Illinois  residents  add  5%  sales  tax. 
Visa  and  Mastercard  accepted. 


The  engineering  and  graphics  experts 
opening  a  new  era  in  computer  simulation. 

LOGIC 

Distribution  Corp. 
BoxV,  Savoy,  IL  61874 
(217)359-8482 


336        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  278  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  264  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  265  on  inquiry  card. 


1    J-80 


$685 


The  world's  most  popular  microcomputer,  with  16K  of 
memory  and  Level  1 1  basic  for  only  $685.  complete  with 
full  90  day  Radio  Shack  warranty.  We  accept  check, 
money  orderorphoneorderswith  Visa  orMasterCharge. 
(Shipping  costs  added  to  charge  orders). 
Disk  drives,  printers, 
peripherals,  software 
and  games  .  .  .  you 
name  it,  we've  got  it 
(Both  Radio  Shack  & 
other  brands).  Write 
or  call  for  our 
complete  price  list. 


Shown  is  Level  I. 
Leva)  II  includes 
Alphanumeric  keypad. 


ELECTRONICS  MART 


Ltd. 


AUTHORIZED 
DEALERSHIP 


Radio  /hack 


32E.MainStreet«MilanMichigan48160«(313)439-1400 


EITI 

Back  Issues  for  sale 


I 


The  following  issues  are  available: 

1976:  July  and  November 

1977:  March,  May  thru  December 

1978:  February  thru  October,  December 

1979:  January  thru  December  except  March 

1980:  January  to  current  issue  except  February 

Cover  price  for  each  issue  through  August  1977  is  $1.75 

Domestic;  $2.75  Canada  and  Mexico;  $3.75  Foreign. 

September  1977  through  October  1979  issues  are  $2.50 

Domestic;  $3.25  Canada  and  Mexico;  $4.00  Foreign. 

November  1979  to  current  is  $3.00  Domestic;  $3.75  Canada 

and  Mexico;  $4.50  Foreign. 

Send  requests  with  payment  to: 

BYTE  Magazine 

70  Main  St,  Peterborough  NH  03458 

Attn:  Back  Issues 


O 
O 

o 
o 

o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 

o 
o 

o 

o 


BUY  COMPUTERS 
BY  MAIL  ORDER 
AND  SAVE  16% 


APPLE  HARDWARE 


16K 
32K 
48K 
Disk  with  Controller 


$  958.00 
$1,040.00 
$1,099.00 


495.00 
440.00 
445.00 
655.00 
215.00 


Disk 
Pascal 

Graphics  Tablet 
Symtek  Light  Pen 
Versawrlter  Digitizer  System 

$   215.00 
Videx  Vldeoterm 
80  Column  Card       $   315.00 
with  graphics-ROM  $    335.00 
Apple  Clock  $   225.00 

Micro  Soft  Z-80  Software  Card 
wlthCPM  $    319.00 

Parallel  Printer  Card 

$    145.00 
Communications  Card  with 
connecting  cable    $    185.00 
Apple  II  Firmware  Card 

$    149.00 
Integer  Basic  Firmware 

$    149.00 


SOFTWARE 

Controller  (General  Business 
System)  $  519.00 

Cashier  (Retail  Mgmt  & 
Inventory  System)      $    199.00 
Apple  Post  Mailing  List 

$     45.00 

CROMEMCO 

SAVE  16%  ON  ALL  EQUIPMENT 


NORTHSTAR 

Horizon-2-32KDD 


VERBATIM 
&  MEMOREX 

5V4" 


$2,390.00 


$      27.50 


PLASTIC  BOXES 

5'A"  $       2.25 

8"  $       3.50 


Send  certified  check  (regular  checks  require  2  weeks  to  clear)  or 
charge  to  VISA  or  Master  Charge.  Customer  pays  shipping. 

MIRO  COMPUTERS,  INC. 

27  Long  Meadow  Place  South  Setauket,  L.I.,  N.Y.  11720 
(516)  423-7955  call  mon.-sat.,  ioam-oPM 


O 


±m 


Circle  266  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


337 


available  on  the  disk  in  machine- 
readable  form.  Included  are  sections 
on  building,  saving,  and  using  a 
muMATH-79  environment  (which  is 
the  muMATH-79  packages  compiled 
plus  all  the  variable  and  status 
assignments  completed  to  date).  In 
addition,  ten  files  (five  for  each  sub- 
ject) that  execute  interactively  on  the 
host  computer  cover  the  topics  of 
using  muMATH-79  in  what  is  called 
calculator  mode  and  of  programming 
in  muSIMP-79. 

The  Soft  Warehouse  prints  an 
occasional  newsletter  that  contains 
updates,  additions,  and  (very  occa- 
sionally) corrections  to  its  muSIMP/ 
muMATH-79  and  muLISP  (another 
of  its  products)  systems.  The  people 
at  the  Soft  Warehouse  have  been 
friendly  and  informative  every  time 
I've  called  them. 

muMATH-79  for  the  TRS-80 

Microsoft  Consumer  Products  of 
Bellevue,  Washington  (a  sibling  com- 
pany to  the  Microsoft  of  Microsoft 
BASIC  fame)  is  marketing  two  ver- 
sions of  muSIMP/muMATH-79  for 
the  TRS-80.  The  first  version, 
equivalent  to  the  one  described  in  this 
review,  will  sell  for  $250. 

A  slightly  diminished  version  of  the 
system  will  be  available  for  $75 — a 
very  reasonable  price.  Although  I 
have  not  seen  it,  the  manufacturer 
informs  us  that  the  system  will  come 
with  two  floppy  disks  (one  for 
32  K-byte  systems,  one  for  48  K-byte 
systems)  and  an  abbreviated  manual. 
The  floppy  disk  for  the  32  K-byte 
system  will  include  muSIMP-79,  a 
precompiled  module  including  the 
arithmetic,  algebra,  and  equation- 
solution  packages,  and  uncompiled 
logarithmic  and  positive  and  negative 
trigonometric  packages. 

The  floppy  disk  for  the  48  K-byte 


At  a  Glance: 

Name  of  program 

muSIMP/muMATH-79 

Type  of  program 

language/utility 

Manufacturer 

The  Soft  Warehouse 
POB  11174 
Honolulu  HI     96828 
(808)  734-5801 

Price 

$290 

Format 

5-inch  or  8-inch  disk 

Language  used 

8080  machine  language 

Computer  needed 

an  8080,  8085,  or  Z80-based  computer 
running  CP/M,  CDOS,  IMDOS,  or  TRSDOS 
operating  systems 

Documentation 

175  pages,  8V2  by  11  inches, 
ring  binder 

in  three- 

Audience 

high-school  and  college  students,  educators, 
programming  language  enthusiasts 

TRS-80  system  will  be  the  same  but 
will  add  the  differentiation  package 
and  most  of  the  integration  packages 
in  the  compiled  module.  Both  ver- 
sions have  extensions  that  allow 
muSIMP  to  access  the  TRS-80 
graphics. 

Conclusions 

•  The  muSIMP/muMATH-79 
Symbolic  Math  System  is  a  very 
impressive  tool.  It  fills  a  gap  in  the 
spectrum  of  problems  solvable  by  a 
computer. 

•  Although  it  cannot  work 
wonders,  muSIMP/muMATH-79  can 
solve  many  of  the  problems  encoun- 
tered in  algebra,  trigonometry,  and 
even  calculus  classes.  (Educators  need 
not  fear:  muMATH-79  does  not  pro- 
vide a  solution's  derivation,  only  the 
final  answer.) 

•  Educators  from  the  high-school 
level  up  have  used  the  package  as  an 
aid  to  teaching  mathematics.  And 
researchers  have  used  it  to  keep  track 


of  equations  during  complex  mani- 
pulations. Other  potential  users  in- 
clude: engineers  demanding  exact 
numeric  solutions  of  problems  and 
matrices  (the  fractional  answers  can 
be  divided  out  conventionally  to  give 
decimal  answers  of  any  accuracy);  re- 
searchers interested  in  artificial  in- 
telligence; college  professors  studying 
programming  languages,  and  all 
those  in  need  of  a  calculator. 

•  Although  this  is  no  fault  of  the 
package,  muMATH-79  occasionally 
behaves  in  a  way  that,  although  cor- 
rect, leads  to  unexpected  and  seem- 
ingly mysterious  results.  (I,  for  exam- 
ple, was  unable  to  save  a  compiled 
package  to  disk  drive  B  because  I  had 
assigned  an  algebraic  value  to  the 
variable  B.)  Some  sophistication  on 
the  part  of  the  user  is  necessary  in 
such  cases. 

•  The  documentation  is  good,  but 
a  thorough  knowledge  of  the  system 
is  gained  only  by  lots  of  practical 
experience.  ■ 


AIM  65 


AIM  65  is  fully  assembled,  tested  and  warranted.  With  the  addition  of  a  low  cost,  readily  available  power 
supply,  it's  ready  to  start  working  for  you.  It  has  an  addressing  capability  up  to  65K  bytes,  and  comes 
with  a  user-dedicated  1K  or  4K  RAM. 


•  Thermal  Printer 

•  Full-Size  Alphanumeric  Keyboard 

•  True  Alphanumeric  Display 

•  Proven  R6500  Microcomputer  System  Devices 


•  Built-in  Expansion  Capability 

•  TTY  and  Audio  Cassette  Interfaces 

•  ROM  Resident  Advanced  Interactive  Monitor 

•  Advanced  Interactive  Monitor  Commands 


PRICE:  $389.00 


Plus  $4.00  UPS  (shipped  in  U.S.  must  give  street  address),  $10  parcel  post  to  APO's,  FPO's,  Alaska, 
Hawaii.Canada,  $25  air  mail  to  all  other  countries 

We  manufacture  a  complete  line  of  high  quality  expansion  boards.  Use  reader  service  card  to  be  added 
to  our  mailing  list,  or  U.S.  residents  send  $1.00  (International  send  $3.00  U.S.)  for  airmail  delivery  of  our 
complete  catalog. 


ENTERPRISES 

INCORPORATED 

2951  W.  Fairmount  Avenue  •  Phoenix,  AZ  85017  •  (602)  265-7564 


338        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  267  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  268  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  269  on  Inquiry  card. 


MICROSTAT 
NOW  AVAILABLE  FOR  CP/M 

MICROSTAT,  the  most  powerful  statistics  package  available 
for  microcomputers,  is  completely  file-oriented  with  a  power- 
ful Data  Management  Subsystem  (DMS)  that  allows  you  to 
edit,  delete,  augment,  sort,  rank-order,  lag  and  transform  (1 1 
transformations,  including  linear,  exponential  and  log)  existing 
data  into  new  data.  After  a  file  is  created  with  DMS,  Microstat 
provides  statistical  analysis  in  the  following  general  areas: 
Descriptive  Statistics  (mean,  sample,  and  population  S.D., 
variance,  etc.).  Frequency  Distributions  (grouped  or  individ- 
ual). Hypothesis  Testing  (mean  or  proportion).  Correlation  and 
Regression  Analysis  (with  support  statistics).  Non-parametric 
Tests  (Kolmogorov-Smirnov,  Wilcoxon,  etc.).  Probability  Dis- 
tributions (8  of  them),  Crosstabs  and  Chi-square,  AN0VA(one 
and  two  way).  Factorials,  Combinations  and  Permutations,  plus 
other  unique  and  useful  features. 

MICROSTAT  requires  48K,  Microsoft  MBasic  with  CP/M  and 
is  sent  on  a  single-density  8"  Disk.  It  is  also  available  on  5" 
diskettes  for  North  Star  DOS  and  Basic  (32K  and  two  drives 
recommended),  specify  which  when  ordering.  The  price  for 
Microstat  is  $250.00.  The  user's  manual  is  $15.00  and 
includes  sample  data  and  printouts.  We  have  other  business 
and  educational  software,  call  or  write: 


ECOSOFT 


ji^  systems, 
inc. 


•  Quantity  Discounts 
Available 

•  90-day  Warranty 

•  Ask  about  our  unique 
"Guaranteed  Custom 
Programming" 


ZENITH  DATA  SYSTEMS 


Z89  MICROCOMPUTER  SYSTEM  

48KB  Memory 

Z19  Video  Terminal  (24  x  80) 

2  Serial  E1A  ports 

Single  5"  Diskette  Drive 

Z19  Smart  Video  Terminal  .  . .  .SPECIAL 
24  lines  x  80  col 
Reverse  Video 
Numeric  keypad 

HDOS  Operating  System  (with  BASIC) . . 

Microsoft  Basic 

Word  Processing  for  Z89  System 

Dual  5"  Diskette  Drive  for  Z89  System  . . 


LIST  OUR  PRICE 

$2,895  $2,495 


$    950 


795 


$    150  $     145 

$    150  $     145 

$    395  $    375 

$1,195  $1,095 


[master  charge] 


P.O.  Box  68602 
Indianapolis,  IN  46268 
_J  (317)283-8883 

CP/M  is  a  registered  trade  mark  of  Digital  Research. 


To  Order:  Send  Check  or  Money  Order  to:  PK  Systems,  Inc.,  113  North 
Center,  Bloomington,  IL  61701.  Allow  two  weeks  for  personal  checks  to 
clear.  For  COD  Orders,  add  5%  for  handling  and  service  charge.  Rush 
orders,  add  $50.00 

Shipping:  Freight  collect,  FOB  Bloomington.  We  ship  UPS,  air  freight,  or 
motor  freight. 

PK  Systems  is  an  Authorized  Zenith  Data  Systems  Dealer  and  Zenith 
Service  Center. 


(T 


A  Message 
to  our  Subscribers 


From  time  to  time  we  make 
the  BYTE  subscriber  list 
available  to  other  companies 
who  wish  to  send  our 
subscribers  promotional 
material  about  their  products. 
We  take  great  care  to  screen 
these  companies,  choosing 
only  those  who  are  reputable, 
and  whose  products,  services, 
or  information  we  feel  would 
be  of  interest  to  you.  Direct 
mail  is  an  efficient  medium 
for  presenting  the  latest 
personal  computer  goods  and 
services  to  our  subscribers. 

Many  BYTE  subscribers 
appreciate  this  controlled 
use  of  our  mailing  list,  and 
look  forward  to  finding 


information  of  interest  to 
them  in  the  mail.  Used  are 
our  subscribers'  names  and 
addresses  only  (no  other 
information  we  may  have  is 
ever  given). 

While  we  believe  the 
distribution  of  this 
information  is  of  benefit  to 
our  subscribers,  we  firmly 
respect  the  wishes  of  any 
subscriber  who  does  not  want 
to  receive  such  promotional 
literature.  Should  you  wish  to 
restrict  the  use  of  your  name, 
simply  send  your  request  to 
BYTE  Publications  Inc,  Attn: 
Circulation  Department, 
70  Main  St,  Peterborough  NH 
03458.  Thank  you. 


^ 


=^ 


CATCH  THE  S-100  INC.  BUS! 


SSM  I/0-4  2P  +  2S  KIT 

G0DB0UT  EC0N0RAM  XX-16K  UNKIT 

S.D.  SYSTEMS  SBC-100  Z-80  KIT 

IMSAI  "8080"  FRONT  PANEL 
COMPUTER  W/MPU-A  AST 

MORROW  DESIGNS  SWITCHBOARD 
I/O  KIT 

ITHACA  INTERSYSTEMS  DPS-1 

W/MPU-80  A  &  T 
SHUGART  SA-800  BARE  DRIVE 

NORTH  STAR  MDS-A  DOUBLE  DENSITY 
DISK  SYSTEM  A  &  T 


LIST 
PRICE 

OUR 

SPECIAL 

CASH 

PRICE 

210.00 

144.00 

319.00 

272.00 

295.00 

219.00 

1,150.00 

800.00 

199.00 

170.00 

1,795.00 

1.499.00 

650.00 

475.00 

899.00        699.00 


Subject  to  Available  Quantities    « 
Shipping  i 


Prices  Quoted  Include  Cash  Discounts. 
Insurance  Extra. 


We  carry  all  major  lines  such  as 

S.D.  Systems,  Cromemco,  Ithaca  Intersystems,  North  Star, 

Sanyo,  ECT,  TEI,  Godbout,  Thinker  Toys,  SSM. 

For  a  special  cash  price,  telephone  us. 

S-IDD,inc. 

7  White  Place,  Clark,  N.J.  07066 
201-382-1318 

Hours:  Mon.  -  Fri.  —  10  a.m.  to  6  p.m. 


Circle  270  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


339 


An  8088  Processor 
for  the  S-100  Bus 


Part  3 


Thomas  Woodward  Cantrell 

2475  Borax  Dr 

Santa  Clara  CA  95051 


MON88  is  a  small  system  monitor  for  the  single-board 
8088-based  processor  described  in  parts  1  and  2  of  this  ar- 
ticle (September  and  October  1980  BYTE,  pages  43  and 
62  respectively). 

The  current  configuration  of  MON88  implements  six- 
teen commands  (expandable  to  twenty-six)  and  uses  less 
than  1.5  K  bytes  of  memory.  This  includes  a  "large"  (ap- 
proximately 256-byte)  video  driver  required  for  my  hard- 
ware environment  and  lengthy  messages  (about  128 
bytes'  worth)  that  make  MON88  easy  to  use.  No  attempt 
was  made  to  optimize  the  amount  of  memory  used. 

Stripping  out  the  video-driver  routine  (that  is,  using  a 
hardware  terminal,  rather  than  software,  to  create  the 
same  effect)  and  the  messages,  along  with  some  optimiza- 
tion, can  probably  reduce  code  size  to  1  K  bytes.  My 
plan  is  to  expand  the  monitor  until  it  fills  the  2  K  bytes  of 
EPROM  (erasable  programmable  read-only  memory)  in 
the  8755 A-2  integrated  circuit  on  the  processor  board. 
(See  table  1  for  a  quick-reference  guide  to  the  MON88  in- 
struction set.) 

MON88  Philosophy 

The  8088  incorporates  very  powerful,  mainframe-like 
architectural  features  such  as  segmented  memory, 
pipelining,  multi-  and  co-processing  "hooks,"  etc.  One 
key  objective  of  the  8088  project  has  been  to  implement 
the  hardware  and  software  in  as  simple  a  fashion  as  possi- 
ble. This  will  allow  users  familiar  with  traditional  8-bit 
processors  to  ease  into  an  understanding  of  this  powerful 
new  machine. 

Following  the  philosophy  of  simplicity,  my  8088  design 
embodies  what  is  known  as  the  "small  model  of  computa- 
tion." This  model  assumes  that  a  given  task  can  be  im- 
plemented using  one  set  of  segmentation  register  values: 

•  one  64  K  code  segment 

•  one  64  K  data  segment 

•  one  64  K  stack  segment 

•  one  64  K  extra  segment 

A  key  feature  of  the  8088  is  that,  for  many  instruc- 
tions, certain  memory  segments  are  used  to  determine  an 
absolute  memory  address.  This  allows  instructions  to  be 
implemented  in  fewer  bits,  contributing  to  the  extremely 


efficient  use  of  memory  in  the  8088.  This  is  not  a  restric- 
tion because  the  default  segment  can  be  overridden  by 
using  a  segment-prefix  for  the  instruction  in  question. 

In  fact,  my  decision  was  to  initially  use  only  sixteen  of 
the  twenty  address  lines  available  on  the  processor 
board.  In  this  case,  all  segments  (code,  data,  stack  and 
extra)  totally  overlap  in  the  64  K-byte  address  space  of 
the  processor  board.  This  means  we  need  not  concern 
ourselves  with  what  segment  is  where,  and  what  instruc- 
tions assume  which  segments. 

MON88  Organization 

The  organization  of  MON88  in  memory  is  shown  in 
figure  1.  I  will  briefly  discuss  each  section.  Note  that 
modifications  to  MON88  for  your  own  environment  are 
discussed  later  in  this  article.  The  following  paragraphs 
describe  each  section  of  the  monitor. 

Storage  allocation  and  constant  definition:  This  section 
defines  commonly  used  constants  and  specific  I/O  (in- 
put/output) port  addresses,  etc.  In  addition,  memory 
allocation  is  performed  for  needed  buffer  and  variable 
space. 

User  jump  table:  This  is  the  first  actual  code  in  MON88 
consisting  of  two  MON88  entry  points  (INIT  and 
START)  and  three  I/O  entry  points  (KEYIN,  KEYSTAT 
and  VIDOUT).  A  user  program  could  terminate  by  jump- 
ing to  one  of  the  two  MON88  entry  points.  Similarly,  a 
user  program  could  call  one  of  the  I/O  entry  points. 
When  the  I/O  is  done,  the  return  instruction  of  each  I/O 
routine  will  give  control  back  to  the  user  program. 

Segment  register  and  I/O  initialization:  The  code, 
data,  stack  and  extra  segments  (CS,  DS,  SS  and  ES)  are 
set  overlapping  at  address  0.  Environment-dependent 
I/O  initialization  is  also  performed  by  this  routine. 

Main  loop:  This  is  the  overall  control  routine  for 
MON88.  It  prints  the  prompt  character  and  accepts  a 
one-letter  command  from  the  console.  The  appropriate 
command-routine  address  is  determined  and  control  is 
transferred  from  this  routine. 

Message  storage:  Messages  used  by  various  commands 
are  stored  here.  Note  that  each  message  is  terminated  by 
aO. 

Command  jump  table:  The  addresses  for  the  twenty- 
six    possible    commands    are    stored    here.    Note    that 


340        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  271  on  inquiry  card. 


THIS  YEAR 
CP/liDS 

COMPLETE  INTEGRATED 
ACCOUNTING  SOFTWARE 

MASTER  TAX— Professional  tax  preparation  program.  Prepares  sched- 
ules A,  B,  C,  D,  E,  F  G,  R/RP,  SE,  TC,  ES  and  forms  2106,  2119,  2210, 
3468,  3903,  2441, 4625,  4726,  4797, 4972,  5695  and  6251.  Printing  can  be 
on  readily  available,  pre-printed  continuous  forms,  on  overlays,  or  on  com- 
puter generated,  IRS  approved  forms.  Maintains  client  history  files  and  is 
interactive  with  CPAids  GENERAL  LEDGER  II  (see  below)  . . .  .S995/S30 
Annual  Update  Fee $350 


GENERAL  LEDGER  II— Designed  for  CPAs. 
Stores  complete  12  month  detailed  history  of 
transactions.  Generates  financial  statements, 
depreciation,  loan  amortizations,  journals, 
trial  balances,  statements  of  changes  in  finan- 
cial position,  and  compilation  letters.  Includes 
payroll  system  with  automatic  posting  to  gen- 
eral ledger.  Prints  payroll  register,  W2's  and 
payroll  checks $450/$30 

Runs  with  widely  accepted  CP/M  operating 
system 

Distributed  by 

Lifeboat  Associates 

1651  Third  Ave.,  New  York,  N.Y  10028 


lifeboat  Associates 

THE 
SOFTWARE 
SUPER- 
MARKET 


ZOBEX 

ZS-SYSTEMS 

Complete  computer  on  3  S-100  boards  with  32K  RAM  for  $1395.00 
Runs  M/PM  and  C/PM 


64K  RAM 

4  MHz  No  WAIT  States 

DMA  operation, 

Bank  select  in  I6K  sections 

DISK  CONTROLLER 

8"  and  5"  DRIVES 
All  digital  design  for  stable  and 
reliable  performance.  No  one- 
shots  or  analog  circuitry.  BIOS 
for  C/PM  available. 


Z80CPU 


2-4  MHZ 


2  or  4  serial  ports,  3  parallel, 
one  4K  EPROM,  Vectored  inter- 
rupts, real  time  clock,  Software 
controlled  baud  rates,  Drives 
daisy  wheel  printer  directly 

CARD  CAGE 

and  Fan 

6  slot  shielded  motherboard  for 
good  cooling  and  low  noise. 


SEND  FOR  FREE  INFORMATIONS 

6  months  warranty  on  our  boards  with  normal  use 

ZS-SYSTEMS 
ZOBEX 

5333  Mission  Center  Rd.,San  Diego,  CA.  92108 

P.O.  Box  1847,  San  Diego,  Ca.  92112 

(714)  447-3997,  (714)  296-9182 


rBTTBTroircnrcnru'yBTrro^Ti^^TiTi; 


vTo  furthe 


lprove 
service  to  our  customers  we 
have  installed  a  toll-free 
■^  WATS  line  in  Our 


Peterborough,  New 
Hampshire  office. 
If  you  would 
like  to  order  a 
subscription  to\ 
BYTE,  or  if 


BYTE's 

Toll-free 
Subscriber 
W.A.T.S.  Line 


(800)258-5485 

We  thank  you  and  look 
forward  to  serving  you. 


you  have  a 
question  relat 
ed  to  a  BYTE 
subscription, 
you  are  inv 

to  call* 
(800)258-5485 
between  8:00  AM  and 
4:30  PM  Eastern  Time 
Friday  8  AM  -  Noon). 
♦  Calls  from  conti 
nental  U.S 
only 


I 


MJLQjajMJLSUlJLiJUULSLSlJLSlSL&SLa 


mCviSLSU 


SLSLSL 


917£ 


LINE  VOLTAGE 
TRANSIENT  CLIPPING 


Features  Parallel  Operation 

PROTECTS: 

•Computers 

•  Micro-Computer  Systems 
•Word  Processors 
•Cash  Registers 

•  Power  Supplies 


5000  Hits/Second 

PROTECTS  AGAINST: 

•  High  Energy  Voltage 
Transients 

•On-Off  Switching 
•Lightning  Induced  Transients 

•  Inrush  of  On/Off  Power 


MFD.  by  Energy  Electronic  Systems,  Inc 
Exclusively  for: 


TRANSIENT  VOLTAGE 

SURGE  SUPPRESSOR     LISTED 


7133  RUTHERFORD  ROAD 
BALTIMORE,  MARYLAND  21207 

(301)  298-3130 


Circle  273  on  Inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


341 


HEXADECIMAL 
ADDRESS 

STORAGE    ALLOCATION 

CONSTANT  DEFINITION 
(EQUATES) 

USER 
JUMP 
TABLE 

F800 

SEGMENT  REGISTER 
I/O    INITIALIZATION 

F80F 

MAIN 

WORKING 

LOOP 

F835 

MESSAGE 
STORAGE 

F85A 

COMMAND 
JUMP 
TABLE 
(CTABLE) 

F8B8 

UTILITY 
I/O   ROUTINES 

F8EC 

COMMAND 
ROUTINES 

FA7E 

VIDEO 
DRIVER 

FD18 

Figure  1:  Memory  map  for  the  MON88  monitor. 


unimplemented  commands  are  given  the  ERR  (error)  ad- 
dress. 

Utility  and  I/O  routines:  This  and  the  following  (com- 
mand routines)  section  make  up  the  bulk  of  MON88.  The 
utility  routines  are  used  by  command  routines.  This 
allows  command  routines  to  be  implemented  largely  as 
calls  to  various  utility  routines  (see  figure  2).  For  in- 
stance, many  commands  require  the  acquisition  of  a 
starting  and  ending  address.  The  utility  routine  SETUP 
performs  this  function.  Many  of  these  utility  routines 
may  be  useful  in  your  own  programming  efforts. 

Command  routines:  These  are  the  routines  that  actual- 
ly perform  each  command.  Due  to  the  extensive  use  of 
the  above  utility  routines,  most  commands  are  easily  im- 
plemented as  a  series  of  subroutines.  A  good  example  is 
the  W  (CWRITE)  cassette-write  command,  which  dumps 
a  block  of  memory  to  tape  (see  listing  1,  starting  at  line 
576).  Note  that  of  the  twelve  "instructions"  constituting 
the  command,  eight  are  calls  to  other  routines. 

The  advantage  of  programming  in  this  manner  is  that 
the  command  routines  are  easy  to  write.  Should  you 


— *T* — 

PRINT 
PROMPT 


COMPUTE  INDEX 
INTO  COMMAND 
JUMP  TABLE 
(CTABLE) 


GET   COMMAND 

ROUTINE 

ADDRESS 


CALL 

COMMAND 

ROUTINE 


<- 


COMMAND 
ROUTINE 


UTILITY 
ROUTINE 


UTILITY 
ROUTINE 


Figure  2:  High-level  flowchart  for  MON88  program.  In  general, 
the  program  decodes  user  input  and,  if  valid,  jumps  to  the  ap- 
propriate command  subroutine.  Once  the  routine  is  finished, 
control  is  passed  back  to  the  command-input  routine,  and  the 
program  prints  another  prompt. 


want  to  add  commands,  they  can  probably  be  im- 
plemented largely  as  a  series  of  calls  to  already-existing, 
tested  utility  routines  in  MON88.  This  also  saves 
memory  space  by  eliminating  redundant  coding  of  essen- 
tially the  same  routine. 

Video  driver:  My  hardware  requires  a  relatively 
lengthy  software  driver  for  the  video  board  in  my 
system.  I  converted  this  code  from  8080  assembly 
language  using  Intel's  CONV86  code  converter.  Briefly, 
the  tradeoff  is  between  the  performance  of  the  converted 
code  versus  a  version  rewritten  for  the  8088  and  the 
associated  time  required  for  each  process.  Converted 
code  may  be  somewhat  larger  than  a  rewritten  version, 
but  it  will  probably  take  only  a  small  fraction  of  the  time 
to  implement  as  compared  to  a  rewrite.  Because  the  8088 
has  a  faster  clock  rate  than  the  8080,  the  converted  pro- 
gram, even  if  larger,  will  probably  run  faster  than  the 
original  8080  version. 

Environment  Dependence 

The  dependence  of  MON88  on  a  certain  I/O  or 
memory  environment  has  been  minimized.  The  following 
summarizes  the  changes  you  will  need  to  make  to  adapt 
MON88  to  your  own  system.  Refer  to  listing  1,  starting 
at  line  14. 

Location  of  MON88:  The  statement  immediately 
preceding  the  EQUATES  FOLLOW  section  sets  MON88's 
origin.  For  my  processor  board,  the  origin  is  hexadecimal 
F800: 

ORG        F800H 

Text  continued  on  page  346 


342       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


MiGRAPHlcm 
POSSIBILITIES 

Q^%  8V  TOM  .SLOAN  g>@ 


Vl   JUST  WROTE  A  PROGRAtf\  (JUST  HAVE  A  5EAT  AND 
THAT  WILL  DISPLAY  ANYTHINC-V^-— 77  PUT  ON  THE 
YOU  THINK  ONTO  THE  SCREEN/lf? /THINKING    CAP. 
USING   MY  NEW  REVOLUTION ARY, 
CTHINK  5Y5TEM!' 


FOR  SALE:  OHIO  SCIENTIFIC 
C2-8P  SYSTEM 

Do  you  want  a  lot  of  reliable  computing  power  at  a  low  price?  Finances  have  forced  me 
to  sell  my  OSI  C2-8P,  which  has  the  following: 


•  6502-based  OSI  500  processor  board 

•  540  video  display  board  with  graphics 
option 

•  powerful  542  polled  keyboard 

•  20K  bytes  of  static  programmable 
memory 


•  8-slot  motherboard  with  5  empty  slots 

•  cassette  interface  and  two  parallel 
ports 

•  hefty  power  supply 

•  all  documentation,  lots  of  reprints,  OS/ 
extended  monitor  and  assembler  tapes. 


some  game  and  blank  tapes. 

My  selling  price  is  $675,  and  I'll  pay  the  shipping.  Call  me  (603)  924-9281  days,  or 
write:  Gregory  Williams,  Shadow  Lane  Apts,  #8,  Peterborough  NH  03458. 


November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc       343 


backward  moves  are  acceptable.  Overlapping  moves 
can  of  course  have  strange  results: 


Rl00[cr] 

LENGTH  (HEXADECIMAL)  =  0200 


November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc       345 


Command  Summary 

Command  syntax  definitions: 


memory  on  a  byte-by-byte  basis.  All  tape-read  opera- 
tions display  the  length  of  the  file  being  read  when  the 

J —  J — — c — --■  ■*■■  ■' —  *i-.  i— ij^.  i _ j„- i 


S,  T,  U  —  Not  Implemented 

V  —  Verify  the  Equality  of  Two  Blocks  of  Memory 

The  block  of  memory  from  [addrl]  to  [addr2]  will 
be  compared  with  the  block  starting  at  [addr3].  Dif- 
ferences will  be  noted  in  hexadecimal  and  binary: 

V[addrl]  [addr2]  [addr3][cr] 

V20  3F  100[cr] 

SRC        M  DEST        M  DIFF 

0022        10  0122  11  00000001 

0030        3E  0130  3F  00000001 

In  this  case,  the  hexadecimal  20  bytes  from  hexa- 
decimal addresses  20  to  3F  are  equal  to  those  at  ad- 
dress 100  except  for  two  locations:  hexadecimal  loca- 
tions 22  and  122  differ,  as  do  locations  30  and  130. 

W  —  Write  to  Cassette 

The  block  of  memory  from  [addrl]  to  [addr2]  will 
be  written  to  tape.  MON88  will  calculate  the  length  of 
the  block,  display  it,  and  write  it  to  the  tape  header  for 
use  by  the  Read  ("R")  and  Compare  ("C")  commands: 


W[addrl]  [addr2][crl 

W100  lFF|cr] 

LENGTH  (HEXADECIMAL) 


100 


The  block  of  memory  from  hexadecimal  100  to  IFF  is 
written  to  tape. 

X,  Y,  Z  —  Not  Implemented 


Command 

Use 

A 

Enter  ASCII  text  into  memory. 

B 

Not  implemented 

C 

Compare  cassette  input  with  memory. 

D 

Display  memory. 

E 

Enter  hexadecimal  data  into  memory. 

F 

Fill  memory  with  a  constant. 

G 

Go  To  and  execute  user  program. 

H 

1 

Hexadecimal  math. 
Input  from  an  I/O  port. 

J 

Not  implemented. 

K 

Toggle  keyboard  upper/lowercase. 

L 

Not  implemented. 

M 

Move  memory. 

N 

Nondestructive  memory  test. 

O 

Output  to  an  I/O  port. 

P 

Put  a  continuous  'sync'  stream  to  tape. 

Q 

Not  implemented. 

R 

Read  a  file  from  cassette. 

S,T,U 

Not  implemented. 

V 

Verify  equality  of  two  memory  blocks. 

W 

Write  a  file  to  cassette. 

X,Y,Z 

Not  implemented. 

Table  1:  A 

quick  reference  guide  to  MON88  commands. 

Note  that  on 

ly  sixteen  of  the  possible  twenty-six  commands 

are  implemented 

.   While  a  stripped  version  of  the  present 

monitor  can 

reside  in  1  K  bytes  of  memory,  there  is  provi- 

sion  on  the  processor  board  for  2  K  bytes  of  EPROM. 

I 


8086  (5MHz) 
8088  (5MHz) 


6809  (2MHz) 
Z80A  (4MHz) 


WORD-ORIENTED 
AND/OR  •*- 

BUS-ORIENTED 


BYTE-ORIENTED 

AND/OR 

EXECUTION-ORIENTED 


A  PPL  ICA  TION  SPEC  TRUM 

Figure  3:  Relative  performance  of  several  8-  and  16-bit 
microprocessors.  The  types  of  programs  a  processor  can  run  are 
divided  into  two  groups:  those  that  primarily  move  data  around 
(word-  or  bus-oriented)  and  those  that  primarily  manipulate 
byte-oriented  data  or  perform  many  numeric  operations.  If  the 
16-bit  8086  microprocessor  (dotted  line)  is  defined  as  a  perfor- 
mance figure  of  1.0,  the  other  three  lines  show  the  approximate 
relative  performance  of  the  three  other  microprocessors  as  in- 
fluenced by  the  type  of  program  being  run. 


Text  continued  from  page  342: 

Scratchpad  Allocation:  My  video-board  driver  uses  an 
80-byte  buffer  and  a  2-byte  X,Y  cursor-position  variable. 
These,  of  course,  can  be  removed  or  replaced  according 
to  your  needs.  Currently  this  storage  is  allocated  in  the 
processor  boards,  1  K  bytes  of  programmable  memory 
in  the  (8185-2)  device. 

The  only  scratchpad  memory  required  by  MON88  is  a 
1-byte  uppercase/lowercase  flag  variable.  This  is  used  by 
the  K  (keyboard  toggle)  command  to  allow  emulation  of 
uppercase-only  peripherals  in  which  letters  are  shifted, 
but  numbers  and  special  characters  are  not. 

If  you  are  not  using  the  processor  board  described  last 
month  and  don't  have  a  dedicated  scratchpad  in  the 
system,  UCFLAG  can  be  allocated  at  the  top  of  memory: 

UCFLAG        EQU  TOPMEM 

where  TOPMEM  is  the  address  of  the  top  of  memory. 

Stack:  My  stack  also  resides  on  the  scratchpad  memory 
within  the  processor  board.  If  you  do  not  have  scratch- 
pad, allocate  the  stack  1  byte  below  the  top  of  your 
memory  (to  leave  room  for  UCFLAG).  Note  that  the 
stack  pointer  is  decremented  before  a  PUSH  operation  is 
performed.  Therefore,  to  allocate  the  stack  1  byte  below 
the  top  of  memory,  set  the  stack  pointer  equal  to  the  top 
of  memory: 


UCFLAG 
STACKP 


EQU  TOPMEM 
EQU  TOPMEM 


346       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Listing  1:  Assembly  listing  of  MON88.  The  flowchart  in  figure  2  outlines  the  general  operation  of  the  program. 


MCS-86  MACRO  ASSEMBLER 


ISIS-II  MCS-86  MACRO  ASSEMBLER  V2.  O  ASSEMBLY  OF  MODULE  VIDBS 
OBJECT  MODULE  PLACED  IN  :  FO:  VIDB8.  OB J 
ASSEMBLER  INVOKED  BY:  A5MB6  VIDBS.  A86 


LOC   OBJ 


OOOO 
F800 


F400 
F4  50 
F452 
OOOC 
OOOA 
OOOD 
0008 


LINE 

1 

a 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

1  1 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

18 

19 

20 

21 

22 

23 

24 

25 

26 

27 

28 


SOURCE 


ABS_0 
M 


ft  »#»ft##*#ft##ft*ft##ftft»ft  ft  »#«ft  ##*###*•»■•&*#*#■&####■&■&#  ft  #*«■#**■■& 

*  * 

*  M    O    N    B    8  ft 

*  * 

*  A  video  oriented  system  monitor  for  the  INTEL  80B8   * 

*  written  Ql  1980  -  revision  O  li- 
ft by. .  Thomas  Woodward  Cantrell  ft 

*  • 

ASSUME   DS:  ABS_0,  CS:  ABS_0,  ES:  AB5_0 
SEGMENT  BYTE  AT  O 
LABEL    BYTE 
ORG      0F800H 

ft  #ft#ftft»ft#ft#ft*##ftft#**ft#ftftft»ftft#ft#ft  #«•##*#  ftft»#ftft#ftft  ft  ft#»ftftftft 

*  ft 

*  EQUATES    FOLLOW  « 

*  ft 
#ftft###ft#ftft##ft*ft#####ft#####ftftft#ft»ft#####ftft#ftftftfrftft##ftft#»#ft 


VIDBUF  EQU 

XY  EQU 

UCFLAG  EQU 

FF  EQU 

LF  EQU 

CR  EQU 

BS  EQU 


0F400H 

VIDBUF+BO 

XY+2 

OCH 

OAH 

ODH 

OBH 


i video  buf  For 

; holder  for  cursor  position 

i   upper / 1 ouer  case  Flag 

;form  feed  (clear  screen) 

i   1  ine  feed 

; carriage  return 

i backspace 

Listing  1  continued  on  page  348 


where  TOPMEM  is  the  address  of  the  top  of  memory. 

Initialization:  I/O  initialization  is  done  in  the  INIT  sec- 
tion of  the  monitor  (see  listing  1,  starting  at  line  76). 
Starting  at  hexadecimal  F81D,  I  initialize  the  Tarbell 
cassette  interface  and  TDL  Video  Interface.  Replace  the 
section  of  code  from  hexadecimal  F81D  to  F828  to  suit 
your  I/O  needs. 

I/O  Drivers 

MON88  currently  uses  the  following  environment- 
dependent  I/O  routines  (their  hexadecimal  addresses  are 
given  in  parentheses): 

•  KEYIN  (F90F)— Reads  a  byte  from  the  console 
keyboard,  strips  off  the  parity  bit,  and  returns  the 
character  in  the  AL  accumulator. 

•  KEYSTAT  (F922)— Reads  the  console  keyboard's 
status  and  returns  AL  =  0  if  a  key  has  not  been  pressed 
and  AL  =  hexadecimal  FF  if  a  key  has  been  pressed. 

•  CIN  (F955) — Reads  a  byte  from  a  mass-storage  device 
(Tarbell  cassette,  in  my  case)  and  returns  the  byte  in  the 
AL  accumulator. 

•  COUT  (F964)— Writes  the  byte  contained  in  the  AL  ac- 
cumulator to  the  mass-storage  device. 

•  CSTART  (FB60) — Sets  up  the  mass-storage  device  for 
a  write  operation.  For  the  Tarbell  interface,  a  start  byte 
and  a  sync  byte  are  required.  Replace  this  code  as 
necessary  for  your  device. 

•  READINIT  (FB9D)— Sets  up  the  mass-storage  device 
for  a  read  operation.  Replace  the  relevant  code  as 
necessary. 

•  PUTSYNC  (FBBF)— Outputs  a  stream  of  sync  bytes  to 


my  cassette.  This  allows  calibrating  the  interface.  If  your 
device  has  a  similar  feature,  modify  the  PUTSYNC 
routine  accordingly.  If  not  needed,  the  whole  P  (PUT- 
SYNC) command  can  be  removed. 
•  VIDOUT  (FCDA) — This  routine  outputs  the  character 
in  the  AL  accumulator  to  the  console  display  device.  In 
my  case,  I  converted  an  8080  version  of  the  video  driver 
to  8088  code  using  Intel's  CONV86  program.  Using  the 
code  converter,  it  took  only  an  hour  or  so  to  get  the 
driver  up  and  running.  I  will  rewrite  it  as  necessary  to 
reduce  the  amount  of  memory  used  by  MON88. 

Adding  or  Removing  Commands 

All  commands  are  referenced  through  CTABLE  (Com- 
mand Jump  Table)  located  at  hexadecimal  F8B8.  Note 
that  the  commands  are  arranged  in  alphabetical  order,  A 
thru  Z.  To  remove  a  command,  simply  replace  its 
reference  in  CTABLE  with  ERR.  For  example,  to  remove 
the  K  command  (uppercase/lowercase  toggle),  change: 

F8CC        DW        KTOGGLE 


to 


F8CC        DW 


ERR 


then  remove  the  KTOGGLE  code  (hexadecimal  FCDl  to 
FCD9). 

Similarly,  to  add  a  special  memory  test  (for  example) 
and  call  it  using  the  letter  T,  first  write  the  code  (for  ex- 
ample,   starting  label  TESTMEM)   for  the  command, 

Text  continued  on  page  360 


November  I960  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc       347 


Listing  1  continued: 


E2E2 
E3E3 
6E6E 
6F6F 
F7FF 
0003 
0004 
0013 
0011 
0000 
00FF 


MCS-86  MACRO  ASSEMBLER 


LDC   OBJ 


FSOO  EB0D90 

FB03  EB3090 
F806  E91901 
F809  E9E000 
FBOC  E9CB04 


F80F 

FC 

F810 

FA 

F811 

8CC8 

F813 

BED8 

FBI  5 

BECO 

FQ17 

BEDO 

FS19 

BCFFF7 

FB1C 

FB 

F81D 

B010 

F81F 

EA6E6E 

F822 

EE 

F823 

BAEOEO 

FB26 

BOBS 

F828 

EE 

F829 

C60652F400 

F82E 

BE5AFB90 

F832 

ES6301 

29 

KSTAT 

EQU 

0E2E2H 

30 

KDATA 

EQU 

0E3E3H 

31 

CSTAT 

EQU 

6E6EH 

32 

CDATA 

EQU 

6F6FH 

33 

STACKP 

EQU 

0F7FFH 

34 

CTLC 

EQU 

03H 

35 

CTLD 

EQU 

04H 

36 

CTLS 

EQU 

13H 

37 

CTLQ 

EQU 

11H 

38 

FALSE 

EQU 

0 

39 

TRUE 

EQU 

OFFH 

40  +1 

♦EJECT 

i keyboard  status  port 
i keyboard  data  port 
iTarbell  status  port 
iTarbell  data  po7*t 
I  Stac  k  address 
;  asc  i  i  ctj-c 
i  asc  i  i  c  1 1  -d 
;  asc.  i  i  c  t  J  -s 
i  asc  i  i  ctl-q 


41 
42 
43 
44 
45 
46 
47 
48 
49 
50 
51 
52 
53 
54 
55 
56 
57 
50 
59 
60 
61 
62 
63 
64 
65 
66 
67 
68 
69 
70 
71 
72 
73 
74 
75 
76 
77 
7B 
79 
BO 
Bl 
82 
83 
84 
85 
86  +1 


SOURCE 


*  * 

*  JUMP   TABLE  * 


#########*»#*####**####*»###»###■«■#*#########**#*###### 


JMP 

JMP 
JMP 
JMP 
JMP 


INIT 


; RESETS  STACK,  SEGMENT  REGISTERS,  CASSETTE  INTERFACE 
i ALSO  PRINTS  SIGN-ON  MESSAGE 


START  i  'WARM  START'-  REGISTERS  NOT  INITIALIZED 

KEYSTAT  i RETURNS  CAL3=0  IF  NO  KEYPRESS  PENDING.   ELSE  CAL3=0FFH 

CONIN  i WAITS  FOR  KEYPRESS.  RETURNS  CALD=CHAR  AND  PRINTS  IT. 

VIDOUT  i  PRINTS  CHAR  IN  AL  ON  CONSOLE 


*  * 

*  INITIALIZATION  * 

*  * 


direction  flag  points  'up' 
disable  interrupts 
initialize 

segment 

reg  isters 

and  set 
stack  pointer 
enable  interrupts 
Reset  Cassette 

Interface 
Reset  Vide-o 

Interfac  e 
Inverse  video  ut/curi.or 
O=lower  case,  FFH-U/C  only 


CLI 

MOV 

AX,  CS 

MOV 

DS,  AX 

MOV 

ES,  AX 

MOV 

SS,  AX 

MOV 

SP,  STACKP 

ST  I 

MOV 

AL,  10H 

MOV 

DX,  CSTAT 

OUT 

DX,  AL 

MOV 

DX,  OEOEOH 

MOV 

AL,  BBH 

OUT 

DX,  AL 

MOV 

BYTE  PTR  MCUCFLAG3,  0 

MOV 

SI,  OFFSET  SIGNON 

CALL 

PRINTMESS 

i  get  sign  on  message 
: and  print  it 


♦EJECT 


MCS-86  MACRO  ASSEMBLER 


LDC   OBJ 


F835  E83D01 
FB3B  B03E 
FB3A  E89D04 

FB3D 

FB3D  B400 
FB3F  E8AA00 
F842  3C41 
F844  72EF 
FB46  3C5A 
F84B  7FEB 
F84A  2C41 


LINE 

B7 

88 

B9 

90 

91 

92 

93 

94 

95 

96 

97 

98 

99 

100 

101 

102 

103 

104 

105 


SOURCE 


348       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


*  * 

*  WORKING   LOOP  * 

*  * 
ft************************************************ 


i  print  CRI.P 
i and  prompt 


START: 

CALL 

CRLF 

MOV 

AL.  '>' 

CALL 

VIDOUT 

MAINLOOP: 

MOV 

AH,  0 

CALL 

CONIN 

CMP 

AL,  'A' 

JB 

START 

CMP 

AL,  'Z' 

JG 

START 

SUB 

AL,  'A' 

; clear  AH 

i   get  a    c  ommand 

i  check    range  far 

i  A 

;    thru 

;      Z 

i calculate  offset 


F84C  DOEO 
F84E  05BBFB90 
F852  BBD8 
FB54  BD07 
FB56  FFDO 
FB5B  EBDD 


106 

SHL 

AL,  1 

i  and  mul tij 

107 

ADD 

AX, OFFSET  CTABLE 

10B 

MOV 

BX,  AX 

109 

MOV 

AX,  WORD  PTR  MCBX3 

110 

CALL 

AX 

i  go  do  it 

111 

JMP 

START 

;  start  ovci 

112 

+  1 

♦EJECT 

MCS-86  MACRO  ASSEMBLER 


LOC   OBJ 


LINE 


SOURCE 


FB5A  OC 

F85B  3B30383B204D6F 
6E69746F72203C 
7263762E20303E 

F870  00 

FB71  41444452204D20 
20542020202044 
494646202020 

F885  00 

F886  53554D20204449 

4646 
F88F  00 

FB90  53524320204D20 
20204445535420 
4D202020204449 
4646 


113 

114 

#* 

IIS 

* 

116 

* 

117 

# 

118 

** 

119 

120 

3IGN0N 

DB 

121 

DB 

122 

DBYTE 

DB 

123 

124 

:OMHEAD 

DB 

125 

DB 

126 

127 

1HEAD 

DB 

128 

DB 

129 

130 

/HEAD 

DB 

MESSAGES  » 

* 

*****************************  *****  *******  #* 


OCH 

'BOSS  Monitor  <rev.  0> ' 


FBA7  00 

131 

132 

i 

F8AB  4C454E47544820 

133 

CHEAD 

2B48455B29203D 

20 

FBB7  00 

134 
135 

136 

M 

♦EJECT 

DB 


DB 


DB 


dumrrnj    byic- 


'ADDR    M       T 


'SUM       DIFF' 


'SRC       M         DEST    M  DIFF' 


'LENGTH     (HEX)     = 


MCS-86    MACRO    ASSEMBLER 


LOC       OBJ 


F8B8 

EOFC 

FBBA 

A7F9 

FBBC 

D2FB 

FBBE 

OOFB 

FBCO 

7BFC 

FBC2 

7EFA 

F8C4 

4AFB 

FBC6 

1AFC 

F8C8 

2CFB 

F8CA 

A7F9 

FBCC 

D1FC 

FBCE 

A7F9 

FBDO 

E7FA 

F8D2 

3BFC 

FBD4 

3FFB 

F8D6 

3FFB 

F8DS 

A7F9 

F8DA 

B2FB 

F8DC 

A7F9 

F8DE 

A7F9 

F8E0 

A7F9 

F8E2 

BDFA 

F8E4 

4FFB 

FBE6 

A7F9 

F8E8 

A7F9 

F8EA 

A7F9 

137 
13B 
139 
140 
141 
142 
143 
144 
145 
146 
147 
148 
149 
150 
151 
152 
153 
154 
155 
156 
157 
158 
139 
160 
161 
162 
163 
164 
163 
166 
167 
168 
169 
170  +1 


*  • 

*  COMMAND   JUMP   TABLE  * 

«  ■ 

CTABLE   DW  AENTER  I  ENTER  ASCII  TEXT  INTO  MEMORY 

DM  ERR  I  B 

DW  COMPARE  i  COMPARE  CASSETTE  INPUT  WITH  MEMORY 

DW  DUMP  i  DISPLAY  MEMORY 

DW  ESUBST  i  ENTER  HEX  DATA  INTO  MEMORY 

DW  FILL  i  FILL  MEMORY  WITH  A  CONSTANT 

DW  GOTO  ;  GO  TO  &  EXECUTE  A  USER  PROGRAM 

DW  HEXMATH  i  COMPUTE  SUM  AND  DIFFERENCE  OF  HEX  It'S 

DW  INPUT  i INPUT  FROM  A  PORT 

DW  ERR  I  J 

DW  KTOGGLE  ;  TOGGLE  KEYBOARD  UPPER /LOWER  CASE  FLAG 

DW  ERR  i  L 

DW  MOVE  i  MOVE  MEMORY 

DW  NTEST  i  NON  DESTRUCTIVE  MEMORY  TEST 

DW  OUTPUT  i  OUTPUT  TO  A  PORT 

DW  PUTSYNC  ;   OUTPUT  CONTINUOUS  SYNC  STREAM  TO  CASSETTE 

DW  ERR  I Q 

DW  READ  i  READ  FROM  CASSETTE 

DW  ERR  I  S 

DW  ERR  i  T 

DW  ERR  i  U 

DW  VERIFY  I  VERIFY  EQUALITY  OF  TWO  MEMORY  BLOCKS 

DW  CWRITE  i WRITE  TO  CASSETTE 

DW  ERR  I  X 

DW  ERR  i  Y 

DW  ERR  i  Z 

♦EJECT  Listing  1  continued  on  page  350 


November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc       349 


Listing  1  continued: 
MCS-86  MACRO  ASSEMBLER 


LDC   OBJ 


LINE 


SOURCE 


FBEC 

EB2000 

F8EF 

50 

FBFO 

A052F4 

FBF3 

OACO 

FSF5 

7405 

F8F7 

5B 

FSFB 

EB0900 

F8FB 

50 

FBFC 

5B 

FBFD 

E8DA03 

F900 

E80100 

F903 

C3 

F904 

3C61 

F906 

7206 

F90B 

3C7B 

F90A 

7302 

F90C 

245F 

F90E 

C3 

F90F 

52 

F910 

BAE2E2 

F913 

EC 

F914 

2480 

F916 

74FB 

F918 

5A 

F919 

52 

F91A 

BAE3E3 

F91D 

EC 

F91E 

247F 

F920 

5A 

F921 

C3 

F932 

F922 

B400 

F924 

52 

F925 

EAE2E2 

F928 

EC 

F929 

2400 

F92B 

7402 

F92D 

F6D4 

F92F 

SAC4 

171 

172 
173 
174 
175 
176 
177 
178 
179 
180 
181 
182 
183 
184 
185 
186 
187 
IBB 
1B9 
190 
191 
192 
193 
194 
195 
196 
197 
198 
199 
200 
201 
202 
203 
204 
205 
206 
207 
208 
209 
210 
211 
212 
213 
214 
215 
216 
217 
218 
219 
220 
221 
222 
223 
224 


*  * 

*  UTILITYROUTINES  * 

*  and  • 
»  I/O   DEVICE   HANDLERS  » 

*  (except   video   driver)  » 


; get  a  keyboard  character 

R  MCUCFLAG3    i   check  for  case  conversion 
;  0? 

»  YES.  .  no  conversion 
(restore  character 
; convert  to  DC 

; and  echo  it  on  console 

; always  return  UC 


CONIN: 

CALL 

KEYIN 

PUSH 

AX 

MOV 

AL, 

BYTE 

OR 

AL. 

AL 

JZ 

CONNEXT 

POP 

AX 

CALL 

UCCHEK 

PUSH 

AX 

CONNEXT 

POP 

AX 

CALL 

VIDOUT 

CALL 

UCCHEK 

KQUIT: 

RET 

UCCHEK: 

CMP 

AL, 

'a  ' 

JC 

UQUIT 

CMP 

AL, 

'i  '  +  1 

JNC 

UQUIT 

AND 

AL, 

5FH 

UQUIT: 

RET 

KEYIN: 

PUSH 

DX 

MOV 

DX, 

KSTAT 

KEYLOOP 

IN 

AL, 

DX 

AND 

AL, 

80H 

JZ 

KEYLOOP 

POP 

DX 

KIN: 

PUSH 

DX 

MOV 

DX 

KDATA 

IN 

AL 

DX 

AND 

AL 

71- H 

POP 

DX 

RET 

KEYSTAT 

MOV 

AH 

FALSE 

PUSH 

DX 

MOV 

DX 

KSTAT 

IN 

AL 

DX 

AND 

AL, 

OOH 

JZ 

KEXIT 

NOT 

AH 

KEXIT: 

MOV 

AL, 

AH 

keyboard  device  handler 

check  for  keyprets 

no  keypress. .  then  wait  For  one 


else  get  the  character 
and  strip  parity 


i  RETURN  CALIJ-O  IF  MO  KEYPRESS  ELSE  CAI_:=-OFFH 
i  prepare  for  false 


return  it  if  no  k cypres f 
otherwise  make  it  TRUE 


MCS-86  MACRO  ASSEMBLER 


VID8B 


LOC 

OBJ 

F931 

5A 

F932 

C3 

F933 

F933 

50 

F934 

EBEBFF 

F937 

3C00 

F939 

7418 

F93B 

EBDBFF 

F93E 

3C13 

F940 

750D 

F942 

E8CAFF 

F945 

3C11 

F947 

740A 

F949 

3C03 

F94B 

745A 

F94D 

EBF3 

F94F 

F94F 

3C03 

F951 

7454 

F953 

225 

POP 

DX 

226 

RET 

227 

; 

228 

CTLCHEK: 

229 

PUSH 

AX 

230 

CALL 

KEYSTAT 

231 

CMP 

AL,  0 

232 

JZ 

CTLEXIT 

233 

CALL 

KIN 

234 

CMP 

AL,  CTLS 

235 

JNZ 

CTLCCHEK 

236 

KWAIT:    CALL 

KEYIN 

237 

CMP 

AL,  CTLQ 

238 

JZ 

CTLEXIT 

239 

CMP 

AL,  CTLC 

240 

JE 

ERR 

241 

JMP 

KWAIT 

242 

CTLCCHEK: 

243 

CMP 

AL.  CTLC 

244 

JZ 

ERR 

245 

CTLEXIT: 

i   CHECK  FOR  CTL-S,   CTL-Q  AND  CTL-C 

i  keypress?' 

i  no  keypress  so  return 

i   if  keypress  then  pet  the  data 

i  check  for  ctl-s 

iif  not  look  for  ctl-c 

j if  ctl-s  then  wait  for  another  keypress 

;is  it  ctl-q 

i  YES.  .  return 

i abort? 

i  YES 

; otherwise  wait  some  more 

;  i  s  it  ctl-c 
1  YES.  .  ABORT! 


350       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


F953  58 

F954  C3 

F955 

F9S5  52 

F956  BA6E6E 
F959 

F959  EC 

F95A  2410 

F95C  75FB 

F95E  EA6F6F 

F961  EC 

F962  5A 

F963  C3 

F964 

F964  52 

F965  50 

F966  BA6E6E 
F969 

F769  EC 

F96A  2420 

F96C  75FB 

F96E  58 

F96F  EA6F6F 

F972  EE 

F973  5A 

F974  C3 

F775  50 

F9  76  ESBAFF 

F979  B00D 

F97B  E85C03 


246 

POP 

AX 

247 

RET 

248 

; 

249 

CIN: 

250 

PUSH 

DX 

251 

MOV 

DX, 

CSTAT 

252 

CINLOOP 

253 

IN 

AL, 

DX 

254 

AND 

AL, 

10H 

255 

JNZ 

CINLOOP 

256 

MOV 

DX, 

CDATA 

257 

IN 

AL, 

DX 

258 

POP 

DX 

259 

RET 

260 

i 

261 

COUT: 

262 

PUSH 

DX 

263 

PUSH 

AX 

264 

MOV 

DX, 

CSTAT 

265 

COUTLOOP. 

266 

IN 

AL, 

DX 

267 

AND 

AL, 

20H 

268 

JNZ 

COUTLOOP 

269 

POP 

AX 

270 

MOV 

DX, 

CDATA 

271 

OUT 

DX, 

AL 

272 

POP 

DX 

273 

RET 

274 

; 

27  5 

CRLF: 

PUSH 

AX 

276 

CALL 

CTLCHEX 

277 

MOV 

AL, 

CR 

278 

CALL 

VIDOUT 

GET  BYTE  FROM  CASSETTE 


i   cassette  ready  to  read' 

I  NO.  .  wait 

i  YES.  . 

;  get  the  data 


i WRITE  A  BYTE  TO  CASSETTE 


;  cassette  ready  for  unite? 

;  NO.  wait 

; get  char  bar  k 

i  and  send  to  tape 


;  CHECK  FOR  ABORT 

I  SEND  CR  AND  LF  TO  CONSOLE 


MCS-86  MACRO  ASSEMBLER 


LOC 

OBJ 

F97E 

BOOA 

F980 

E85703 

F983 

58 

F984 

C3 

F985 

F985 

51 

F986 

B90100 

F9B9 

E80200 

F9BC 

59 

F98D 

C3 

F98E 

F98E 

50 

F9BF 

B020 

F991 

E84603 

F994 

E2FB 

F996 

58 

F997 

C3 

F998 

F99B 

50 

F999 

AC 

F99A 

3C00 

F99C 

7407 

F99E 

56 

F99F 

E83803 

F9A2 

5E 

F9A3 

EBF4 

F9A5 

58 

F9A6 

C3 

F9A7 

B02A 

F9A9 

E82E03 

F9AC 

BCFFF7 

F9AF 

E983FE 

F9B2 

F9B2 

51 

F9B3 

B90B00 

F9B6 

F9B6 

DOEO 

F9B8 

7209 

F9BA 

50 

F9BB 

B030 

F9ED 

EB1A03 

F9C0 

EB0790 

F9C3 

50 

F9C4 

B031 

F9C6 

ESI. 1 03 

SOURCE 


279 

MOV 

AL,  LF 

280 

CALL 

VIDOUT 

281 

POP 

AX 

282 

RET 

283 

; 

2B4 

BLANK: 

i  [ 

285 

PUSH 

cx 

286 

MOV 

CX,  1 

287 

CALL 

TABS 

288 

POP 

CX 

289 

RET 

290 

i 

291 

TABS: 

i 

292 

PUSH 

AX 

293 

MOV 

AL,  '  ' 

294 

TLOOP: 

CALL 

VIDOUT 

295 

LOOP 

TLOOP 

296 

POP 

AX 

297 

RET 

298 

i 

299 

PRINTMESS: 

i   1 

300 

PUSH 

AX        i   1 

301 

PMESS: 

LODS 

DBYTE 

302 

CMP 

AL,  0 

303 

JE 

PQUIT 

304 

PUSH 

SI 

305 

CALL 

VIDOUT 

306 

POP 

SI 

307 

JMP 

PMESS 

308 

PQUIT: 

POP 

AX 

309 

RET 

310 

i 

311 

ERR: 

MOV 

AL,  '*' 

312 

CALL 

VIDOUT 

313 

MOV 

SP.  STACKP 

314 

JMP 

START 

315 

i 

316 

BINOUT: 

317 

PUSH 

CX 

31B 

MOV 

CX,  0 

319 

BIN0UT1 

320 

SHL 

AL,  1 

321 

JB 

B0UT1 

322 

PUSH 

AX 

323 

MOV 

AL,  '0' 

324 

CALL 

VIDOUT 

325 

JMP 

BINEND 

326 

B0UT1: 

PUSH 

AX 

327 

MOV 

AL,  '1  ' 

328 

CALL 

VIDOUT 

> PRINT  A  BLANK-  SAVE  ALL  RLG 


print  1  blank 


PRINT  #  DLANKS  IN  CX.  .ON  EXIT  CX^-0 


;   PRINT  THE  MESSAGE  < —  CSIO  ON  CONSOLE 
END  OF  MESSAGE  IS  A  ZERO  (O) 
i  get  a  byte 

.check  for  end  of  message 
.quit  if  zero 

i   otherwise  save  message  pointer 
idnd  display  byte 

;  print  more  message 


j print  error 

i   message 

; reinitialize  stack 

i and  abort ! 

i OUTPUT  CAL3  AS  EIGHT  BINARY  DIGITS  (BITS) 


get  the  bit 
outp  ut  a  i 
u  th  ertui  se.  . 
output 
I  a  0 
continue 


output    a    1 


Listingl  continued  on  page  352 


November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc        351 


Listing  1  continued: 

F9C9  58 
F9CA  E2F-A 
F9CC  59 
F9CD  C3 


MCS-86  MACRO  ASSEMBLER 


329 

BINEND: 

POP 

AX 

330 

LOOP 

BIN0UT1 

331 

POP 

CX 

332 

RET 

do  it  eiriht  timer. 


LOC 

OBJ 

F9CE 

F9CE 

50 

F9CF 

51 

F9D0 

8AE0 

F9D2 

B104 

F9D4 

D2E8 

F9D6 

59 

F9D7 

EB0700 

F9DA 

8AC4 

F9DC 

E80200 

F9DF 

58 

F9E0 

C3 

F9E1 

F7E1 

240F 

F9E3 

0490 

F9E5 

27 

F9E6 

1440 

F9E8 

27 

F9E9 

E8EE02 

F9EC 

C3 

F9ED 

F9ED 

2C30 

F9EF 

720E 

F9F1 

3C0A 

F9F3 

F5 

F7F4 

7309 

F9F6 

2C07 

F9F8 

3C0A 

F9FA 

7203 

F9FC 

3C10 

F9FE 

F5 

F9FF 

C3 

FAOO 


FAOO 

BBOOOO 

FA03 

E8E6FE 

FA06 

3C30 

FA08 

7210 

FAOA 

51 

FAOB 

B104 

FAOD 

D3E3 

FAOF 

59 

FA10 

E8DAFF 

FA13 

7292 

FA15 

02DB 

FA  17 

E2EA 

333 
334 
335 
336 
337 
338 
339 
340 
341 
342 
343 
344 
345 
346 
347 
348 
349 
350 
351 
352 
353 
354 
355 
356 
357 
358 
359 
360 
361 
362 
363 
364 
365 
366 
367 
368 
369 
370 
371 
372 
373 
374 
375 
376 
377 
378 
379 
380 
381 
382 
383 
384 
385 
386 


PUSH 

PUSH 

MOV 

MOV 

SHR 

POP 

CALL 

MOV 

CALL 

POP 

RET 

HEXDIGOUT: 

AND 

ADD 

DAA 

ADC 

DAA 

CALL 

RET 


HEXCHK: 


SUB 

JB 

CMP 

CMC 

JNB 

SUB 

CMP 

JB 

CMP 

CMC 

RET 


GETPARMB 


AX 

CX 

AH,  AL 
CL.  4 
AL.  CL 
CX 

HEXDIGOUT 
AL,  AH 
HEXDIGOUT 
AX 


i OUTPUT  CAL]  AS  2  HEX  DIGITS.   ALL  REG  SAVED 

i  save  AL 

; shift  AL  right  4  places 

, output  upper  nibble 

i  restore  AL  (now  we  do  lower  nibble) 


AL,  OFH 
AL,  90H 


VIDOUT 


i CONVERT  NIBBLE  TO  ASCII  HEX 
i mask  upper  4  bits 
I  tricky  conversion.  . 
but 
it 

work  s ! 
print  the  result 


I  CHECK  AL  FOR  VALID  HEX  DICIT;  CONVERT  TO  BIN 
AL,  'O'   ;  IF  INVALID  RETURN  WITH  CARRY  SET. 
HRET  i Error.  .  not  alphanumeric 

AL,  OAH  ; check  for  0-9 


HRET 
AL,  7 
AL,  10 
HRET 
AL,  16 


;  return  o.  k.   if  O— V 
i  adjust  for  A-F 

;  return  error  if  >  \- 


i  16  BIT  HEX  VALUE  TO  BX.  BX  IS  SHIFT  REGISTER,  ACCEPTS  LAST  4 
i  ON  ENTRY  CX  EQUALS  NUM3ER  OF  KEYPRESSES  THAT  CAN  BE  ACCEPTED 
I  ON  EXIT  AH  CONTAINS  TERMINATOR  (I.E.   CR,  SPACE) 

I  UNLESS  THE  TERMINATOR  IS  INVALID  (NOT  EUUAL  CR,  SPACE  OR  "  ,  ') 
i IN  WHICH  CASE  AN  ERROR  IS  GENERATED. 


MOV 

BX,  0 

CALL 

CONIN 

CMP 

AL,  '0' 

JB 

BEX  IT 

PUSH 

CX 

MOV 

CL,  4 

SHL 

BX,  CL 

POP 

CX 

CALL. 

HEXCHK 

JB 

ERR 

ADD 

BL,  AL 

LOOP 

LOOPB 

clear  BX 

q et  a  c harac ter 

alp  hanumcr i  c  ? 

NO.  .  .  quit 

YES.  .  .  then 

shift  BX  to 

ma  k  e  room  for 

latest  add  it i  on 

check  for  val  id 

hex 

and  convert 

if  invalid  then 

c-rv 

or  ! 

o t herwi  se  add  it 

in 

keep  looking 

to  binary 


MCS-86  MACRO  ASSEMBLER 


LOC 

OBJ 

FA19 

C3 

FA1A 

3C20 

FA1C 

740B 

FA1E 

3C2C 

FA20 

7407 

FA22 

3C0D 

FA24 

7403 

FA26 

E97EFF 

FA29 

8AE0 

FA2B 

C3 

FA2C 

FA2C 

53 

FA2D 

E8D0FF 

FA30 

BBD3 

FA32 

SB 

FA33 

C3 

INE 

SOURCE 

387 

RET 

388 

BEX  IT. 

CMP 

AL,  ' 

389 

JE 

BGOOD 

390 

CMP 

AL,  ', 

391 

JE 

BGOOD 

392 

CMP 

AL,  CR 

393 

JE 

BGOOD 

394 

JMP 

ERR 

395 

BGOOD: 

MOV 

AH,  AL 

396 

RET 

397 

; 

398 

GETPARMD: 

399 

PUSH 

BX 

400 

CALL 

GETPA 

401 

MOV 

DX,  BX 

402 

POP 

BX 

403 

RET 

404 

; 

; test  for  b lank 

if';  „  c  omma 

;  or  carriage  return 

; if  none  of  the  above  the  ERROR 
; save  terminator 


16  BIT  HEX  VALUE  TO  DX.  USE  GETPARMB 
; save  BX 

i  get  the  parameter 
; put  it  where  it  belongs 
i  restore  BX 


352        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


FA34 

FA34 

51 

FA35 

B9FFFF 

FA38 

E8C5FF 

FA3B 

3C0D 

FA3D 

7406 

FA3F 

E8EAFF 

FA42 

EB0390 

FA45 

8BD3 

FA47 

59 

FA4B 

C3 

FA49 

FA49 

52 

FA4A 

3BD3 

FA4C 

7303 

FA4E 

E956FF 

FA51 

2BD3 

FA53 

8BCA 

FA55 

41 

FA56 

5A 

FA57 

C3 

FA5B 

FA58  53 
FA59  51 
FA5A  52 
FA5B  8AD0 
FA5D  B9FFFF 
FA60  E89DFF 
FA63  81F9FFFF 
FA67  7  502 
FA69  8ADA 
FA6B  BAC3 
FA6D  5A 


405 

SETUP: 

; 

406 

PUSH 

CX 

407 

MOV 

CX, OFFFFH 

408 

CALL 

GETPARMB 

409 

CMP 

AL,  CR 

410 

JE 

SET1 

411 

CALL 

GETPARMD 

412 

JMP 

SET2 

413 

SET1: 

MOV 

DX,  BX 

414 

SET2: 

POP 

CX 

415 

RET 

416 

; 

417 

CLENGTH 

418 

PUSH 

DX 

419 

CMP 

DX,  BX 

420 

JNB 

CL1 

421 

JMP 

ERR 

422 

CL1: 

SUB 

DX.  BX 

423 

MOV 

CX,  DX 

424 

INC 

CX 

425 

POP 

DX 

426 

RET 

427 

i 

428 

GETPARMAL 

i 

429 

; 

430 

PUSH 

BX 

431 

PUSH 

CX 

432 

PUSH 

DX 

433 

MOV 

DL,  AL 

434 

MOV 

CX, OFFFFH 

435 

CALL 

GETPARMB 

436 

CMP 

CX, OFFFFH 

437 

JNE 

GQUIT 

438 

MOV 

BL,  DL 

439 

GQUI T: 

MOV 

AL,  BL 

440 

POP 

DX 

GET  PARMS  IN  BX  AND  DX.   ALL  PURPOSE  PARAMETER  CETTER 
:  save  CX 

;  allow   64K  key  pre  si, es 
i  get  first  parameter 
; check  for  carriage  return 
;   if  so  CDX3  defaults  to  LBX3 
i  otherwise  get  second  parameter 


CCX]'C — CDX:- CBX3  +  1,   IFCBX1M  DX.l  THEN  ERR 


;  if  CBXI  >  CDX3 
; then  error ! 

; else  determine  difference 

i  and  put  in  CX 

i  count  =  difference  +  1 


;  cal:<: —  ASCII  HEX  FROM  CONSOLE 
CAL3  UNCHANGED  IF  NO  PARAMETER  EN1EHED 
i   save  BX 
; save  CX 
;   save  DX 
;  save  AL 

,64  keypresses  allowed 
;  q  e  t  the  parameter 
ihow  many  parameters  entered'/ 
;  if  greater  than  zero  then  continue 
; if  zero  perms  entered  restore  old  value 
i  otherwise  put  it  where  it  belongs 
i  res  tore  DX 


MCS-86  MACRO  ASSEMBLER 


LOC  OBJ 

FA6E  59 

FA6F  5B 

FA70  C3 

FA71 

FA71  50 

FA72  BAC7 

FA74  E857FF 

FA77  8AC3 

FA79  EB52FF 

FA7C  58 

FA7D  C3 


INE 

SOURCE 

441 

POP 

CX 

442 

POP 

BX 

443 

RET 

444 

i 

445 

OUTBX: 

446 

PUSH 

AX 

447 

MOV 

AL,  BH 

448 

CALL 

HEXOUT 

449 

MOV 

AL,  BL 

450 

CALL 

HEXOUT 

451 

POP 

AX 

452 

RET 

453 

; 

454  +1 

*EJECT 

-,  restore  CX 
; restore  BX 


LBX3  OUTPUT  AS  FOUR  HEX  DIGITS 


output 

BH 

and 

BL 


MCS-86  MACRO  ASSEMBLER 


LOC   OBJ 


LINE 


FA7E 

FA7E  EBB3FF 

FAB1  E8C5FF 

FAB4  E8D1FF 

FA87  B807 

FA89  43 

FA8A  E2FB 

FA8C  C3 

FA8D 

FA8D  E8A4FF 

FA90  E8B6FF 

FA93  41 


455 
456 
457 
458 
459 
460 
461 
462 
463 
464 
465 
466 
467 
468 
469 
470 
471 
472 
473 
474 
475 
476 
477 
478 


##ftftftftft»#ftft#ftft#»####ft#»#*ft#«ft#ft#»#»#ft#»ftft#»#»ftft«#» 
ft  ft 

*  COMMAND       ROUTINES  * 

ft  ft 

»####ft»##  ft  ftft#ft»ft#»»»#»«###»#»*ftft»  ftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftft 


VERIFY 


CALL 

CALL 

CALL 

MOV 

INC 

LOOP 

RET 


CALL 
CALL 
INC 


iFILL  A  BLOCK  OF  MEMORY  WITH  A  CONSTANT 

SETUP  ;   get  start  and  end 

CLENGTH  ;   compute  the  count 

GETPARMAL  ;  and  get  the  constant 

MCBXI,  AL  ;  .  . -.  f  il  1  it.  .  . 
BX 
FLOOP 


SETUP 

CLENGTH 

CX 


I  VERIFY  EQUALITY  OF  TWO  BLOCKS  OF  MEMORY 
i  GET  SOURCE  START  AND  END 
i  and  compute  the  length 

Listing  1  continued  on  page  354 


November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc       353 


Listing  1  continued: 


FA94 

SSF3 

FA96 

51 

FA97 

B9FFFF 

FA9A 

EB63FF 

FA9D 

59 

FA9E 

SBFB 

FAAO 

E8D2FE 

FAA3 

56 

FAA4 

BE90F8 

FAA7 

EBEEFE 

FAAA 

5E 

FAAB 

FAAD 

F3 

FAAC 

A6 

FAAD 

B3F900 

FABO 

7501 

FAB2 

C3 

FAB3 

SBDE 

FAB5 

4B 

FAB6 

E8BCFE 

FAB9 

EBB5FF 

FABC 

ESC6FE 

FABF 

8A07 

FAC1 

8AE0 

FAC3 

E808FF 

FAC6 

E8BCFE 

FAC9 

E8B9FE 

FACC 

8BDF 

FACE 

4B 

479 

MOV 

SI,  BX 

480 

PUSH 

CX 

481 

MOV 

CX, OFFFFH 

482 

CALL 

GETPARMB 

4B3 

POP 

CX 

484 

MOV 

DI,  BX 

485 

CALL 

CRLF 

486 

PUSH 

SI 

487 

MOV 

SI, OFFSET  VHEAD 

48B 

CALL 

PRINTMESS 

489 

POP 

SI 

490      VLOOP: 

491 

REPE   CMPS 

DBYTE,  DBYTE 

492 

CMP 

CX,  0 

493 

JNE 

VERR 

494 

RET 

495       i 

496      VERR     MOV 

BX,  SI 

497 

DEC 

BX 

498 

CALL 

CRLF 

499 

CALL 

OUTBX 

500 

CALL 

BLANK 

501 

MOV 

AL, MCBX] 

502 

MOV 

AH,  AL 

503 

CALL 

HEXOUT 

504 

CALL 

BLANK 

505 

CALL 

BLANK 

506 

MOV 

BX,  DI 

507 

DEC 

BX 

save  source  in  EU 


i  64K  keypresses  a  1 ] owed 
; get  the  destination 


; save  source 

i  pr  in t  h  ead  er 
i  restore  source 

I  do  it ! 

i al 1  done? 
.  NO.  .  .  error 

if  done  then  return 

get  the  source  aililr 
adjust  it 

out p  ut  the  addr 

get  what ' s  there 
save  it  in  AH 
out p  ut  the  data 


get  the  destination  addr 
adjust  it: 


MCS-86  MACRO  ASSEMBLER 


LOC 

OBJ 

FACF 

EB9FFF 

FAD2 

BA07 

FAD4 

E8AEFE 

FAD7 

E8F4FE 

FADA 

E8ABFE 

FADD 

32C4 

FADF 

E8D0FE 

FAE2 

E84EFE 

FAE5 

EBC4 

FAE7 

FAE7 

EB4AFF 

FAEA 

3C0D 

FAEC 

7503 

FAEE 

E9B6FE 

FAF1 

EB55FF 

FAF4 

53 

FAF5 

E83CFF 

FAF8 

BBFB 

FAFA 

5B 

FAFB 

8BF3 

FAFD 

F3 

FAFE 

A4 

FAFF 

C3 

FBOO 

FBOO 

EB31FF 

FB03 

EB43FF 

FB06 

EB1900 

FB09 

BA07 

FBOB 

EBCOFE 

FBOE 

EB74FE 

FB11 

43 

FBI  2 

F6C30F 

FBI  5 

7503 

FBI  7 

EB0300 

FBI  A 

E2ED 

FB1C 

C3 

FB1D 

B3F901 

FB20 

7409 

FB22 

FB22 

EB50FE 

FB25 

E849FF 

FB2S 

E85AFE 

FB2B 

C3 

FB2C 

FB2C 

EB05FF 

FB2F 

EB43FE 

FB32 

8BD3 

FB34 

EC 

FB35 

E896FE 

FB3B 

E84AFE 

50B 
509 
510 
511 
512 
513 
514 
515 
516 
517 
518 
519 
520 
521 
522 
523 
524 
525 
526 
527 
52B 
529 

530 

531 
532 
533 
534 
535 
536 
537 
538 
539 
540 
541 
542 
543 
544 
545 
546 
547 
548 
549 
550 
551 
552 
553 
554 
555 
556 
557 
558 
559 
560 


CALL 

OUTBX 

MOV 

AL,  MCBX: 

CALL 

BLANK 

CALL 

HEXOUT 

CALL 

BLANK 

XOR 

AL,  AH 

CALL 

BINOUT 

CALL 

CTLCHEK 

JMP 

VLOOP 

CALL 

i  MO 
SETUP 

CMP 

AL,  ODH 

JNZ 

Ml 

JMP 

ERR 

CALL 

CLENGTH 

PUSH 

BX 

CALL 

SETUP 

MOV 

DI,  BX 

POP 

BX 

MOV 

SI,  BX 

MOVS 

DBYTE, DBYTE 

CALL 

SETUP 

CALL 

CLENGTH 

CALL 

NULINE2 

DL00P1: 

MOV 

AL,  MCBX3 

CALL 

HEXOUT 

CALL 

BLANK 

INC 

BX 

TEST 

BL,  OFH 

JNZ 

DNEXT 

CALL 

NULINE 

DNEXT: 

LOOP 
RET 

DL0OP1 

NULl'NE: 

CMP 

CX,  1 

JE 

NUQUIT 

NULINE2 

CALL 

CRLF 

CALL 

OUTBX 

CALL 

BLANK 

NUQUIT: 

RET 

INPUT: 

CALL 

SETUP 

CALL 

CRLF 

MOV 

DX,  BX 

IN 

AL,  BX 

CALL 

HEXOUT 

CALL 

BLANK 

; d  i  sp lay  i  t 
j  get  the  data 

I  output  the  data 

> determine  bad  bits 
; display  in  binary 
>  check  for  abort 
;   continue 

::  A  BLOCK  OF  MEMORY 

; get  start  and  end 
; if  not  enough  data 

; th en  error ! 

i  otherwise  compute  length 

isave  start  addretb 

. and  get  destination 

iCDll    < —  destination 

-,  csi i    <—   source 
....  move  it... 


DISPLAY  MEMORY 

; get  start  and  end 
( and  compute  length 
<  set  up  console 
i  get  what 's  there 
;  pr  in t  it 
i and  a  blank 


i  test  for  16  byte  boundary 

i  if  not  then  continue 

; otherwise  set  up  console  for  new  line 

;  c  ont  inue 


go  to  new  line 
print  address 
and  a  b lank 


; INPUT  FROM  A  PORT 

i  get  port  addres 


read  the  port 
print  data  in  hex 


354       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


MCS-86  MACRO  ASSEMBLER 


LOC 

OBJ 

FB3B 

E874FE 

FB3E 

C3 

FB3F 

FB3F 

EBF2FE 

FB42 

8AC2 

FB44 

FEC8 

FB46 

BBD3 

FB48 

EE 

FB49 

C3 

FB4A 

FB4A 

E8E7FE 

FB4D 

FFE3 

FB4F 

FB4F 

E8E2FE 

FB52 

E8F4FE 

FB55 

E81DFE 

FB58 

E85500 

FB5B 

E80F00 

FB5E 

E85600 

FB61 

8A07 

FB63 

E8FEFD 

FB66 

43 

FB67 

E8C9FD 

FB6A 

E2F5 

FB6C 

C3 

FB6D 

B03C 

FB6F 

E8F2FD 

FB72 

B0E6 

FB74 

E8EDFD 

FB77 

8  AC  5 

FB79 

E8E8FD 

FB7C 

8AC1 

FB7E 

E8E3FD 

FB81 

C3 

FB82 

FB82 

E8AFFE 

FB85 

E8EDFD 

FB88 

E82500 

FB8B 

E80F00 

FB8E 

E82600 

FB91 

EBC1FD 

FB94 

8807 

FB96 

43 

FB97 

E899FD 

FE9A 

E2F5 

F89C 

C3 

FB9D 

FB9D 

BO  10 

INE 

SOURCE 

561 

CALL 

BINOUT 

562 

RET 

563 

; 

564 

OUTPUT: 

1  1 

565 

CALL 

SETUP 

566 

MOV 

AL.  DL 

567 

DEC 

AL 

368 

MOV 

DX,  BX 

569 

OUT 

DX,  AL 

570 

RET 

571 

; 

572 

SOTO: 

,  1 

573 

CALL 

SETUP 

574 

JMP 

BX 

575 

i 

576 

CWRITE: 

i  1 

577 

CALL 

SETUP 

578 

CALL 

CLENGTH 

579 

CALL 

CRLF 

580 

CALL 

CPROMPT 

581 

CALL 

CSTART 

582 

CALL 

LENGTHOUT 

583 

CLOOP: 

MOV 

AL, MCBX3 

584 

CALL 

COUT 

585 

INC 

BX 

586 

CALL 

CTLCHEK 

587 

LOOP 

CLOOP 

588 

RET 

589 

; 

590 

CSTART: 

MOV 

AL,  3CH 

591 

CALL 

COUT 

592 

MOV 

AL,  0E6H 

593 

CALL 

COUT 

594 

MOV 

AL,  CH 

595 

CALL 

COUT 

596 

MOV 

AL,  CL 

597 

CALL 

COUT 

59B 

RET 

599 

l 

600 

READ: 

i  1 

601 

CALL 

SETUP 

602 

CALL 

CRLF 

603 

CALL 

CPROMPT 

604 

CALL 

READINIT 

603 

CALL 

LENGTHOUT 

606 

RLOOP: 

CALL 

CIN 

607 

MOV 

MIBXJ,  AL 

608 

INC 

BX 

609 

CALL 

CTLCHEH. 

610 

LOOP 

RLOOP 

61  1 

RET 

612 

; 

613 

READINIT: 

614 

MOV 

AL, 10H 

b  inary 


OUTPUT  TO  A  PORT 

i  get  address 

>  and  data 

; adjust  data 

i  output  data 


EXECUTE  A  PROGRAM 

i  get  the  address 
i  GO!  ! 

•■   ITE  TO  CASSETTE 

■>  get  the  range 

i  compute  the  length 


;  tell  1 ength 

;get  a  byte 

.■  output 

i  next  byte 

i check  for  abort 

i   c  ont  i  nue 


start  byte 
sync  byte 
high  length 
1 om  length 


READ  FROM  CASSETTE 
i  yet  address 


: prompt  when  reading 
i  get  a  byte 

.:  n  e  x  t    byte 

; check  for  abort 

; continue 


; reset  interface 


MCS-86  MACRO  ASSEMBLER 


VID8B 


LOC  OBJ 

FB9F  52 

FBAO  BA6E6E 

FBA3  EE 

FBA4  5A 

FBA5  EBADFD 

FBA8  8AE8 

FBAA  E8A8FD 

FBAD  BAC8 

FBAF  C3 

FBBO 

FBBO  BEA8F8 

FBB3  EBE2FD 

FBB6  C3 

FBB7 

FBB7  53 

FBBB  BBD9 

FBBA  EBB4FE 

FBBD  5B 

FBBE  C3 


615 

PUSH 

DX 

616 

MOV 

DX,  CSTAT 

617 

OUT 

DX,  AL 

618 

POP 

DX 

619 

CALL 

CIN 

620 

MOV 

CH,  AL 

621 

CALL 

CIN 

622 

MOV 

CL,  AL 

623 

RET 

624 

i 

625 

CPROMPT: 

626 

MOV 

SI,  OFFSI 

627 

CALL 

PRINTMES: 

628 

RET 

629 

; 

630 

LENGTHOUT: 

631 

PUSH 

BX 

632 

MOV 

BX,  CX 

633 

CALL 

OUTBX 

634 

POP 

BX 

635 

RET 

; get  high  length 
j and  low  length 


; CASSETTE  PROMPT 


i   OUTPUT  RECORD  LENGTH 


;  g  et  the  c  ount 
;  outp  ut  it 

Listing  1  continued  on  page  356 
November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc        355 


Listing  1  continued: 


FBBF 

FBBF 

E833FD 

FBC2 

FBC2 

B0E6 

FBC4 

E89DFD 

FBC7 

EB3BFD 

FBCA 

3C00 

FBCC 

74F4 

FBCE 

E84BFD 

FBD1 

C3 

FBD2 

F3D2 

EB5FFE 

FBD5 

EB9DFD 

FBDB 

BE71FB 

FBDB 

EBBAFD 

FBDE 

E8A4FD 

FBE1 

EBCCFF 

FBE4 

EBB6FF 

FBE7 

EBCDFF 

FBEA 

F3EA 

E86BFD 

FBED 

3A07 

FBEF 

7507 

FBF1 

43 

FBF2 

ES3EFD 

FBF5 

E2F3 

FBF7 

C3 

FBFB 

50 

FBF9 

EB79FD 

FBFC 

ES72FE 

FBFF 

EB83FD 

MCS-B6    MACRO    ASSEMBLER 


LOC 

OBJ 

FC02 

8A07 

FC04 

8AF0 

FC06 

EBC5FD 

FC09 

EB79FD 

FCOC 

58 

FCOD 

EBBEFD 

FC10 

EB72FD 

FC13 

32C6 

FC15 

E89AFD 

FC1B 

EBD7 

FC1A 

FC1A 

ES17FE 

FC1D 

53 

FOE 

52 

FC1F 

E853FD 

FC22 

BEB6F8 

FC25 

EB70FD 

FC2B 

E84AFD 

FC2B 

03DA 

FC2D 

EB41FE 

FC30 

EB52FD 

FC33 

5A 

FC34 

5B 

FC35 

2BDA 

FC37 

E837FE 

FC3A 

C3 

FC3B 

FC3B 

E8F6FD 

FC3E 

EBOBFE 

FC41 

EB31FD 

FC44 

53 

FC45 

51 

FC46 

SA07 

FC4B 

BAEO 

FC4A 

F6D0 

FC4C 

B807 

FC4E 

8A07 

FC50 

F6D0 

FC52 

3AC4 

FC54 

750C 

FC56 

BB27 

FC58 

43 

FC59 

EBD7FC 

FC5C 

E2E8 

FC5E 

59 

FC5F 

SB 

FC60 

EBE2 

636 

637 

PUTSYNC 

:  SEND  SYNC  STREAM  TO  CASSETTE 

638 

CALL 

CRLF 

639 

SYNCLOOP: 

640 

MOV 

AL, 0E6H 

;  sync  charac  ter 

641 

CALL 

COUT 

;  send  it 

642 

CALL 

KEYSTAT 

i  check  for  keypress 

643 

CMP 

AL,  0 

;  zero  =  no  key  pre-  s 

644 

JE 

SYNCLOOP 

;  so  continue 

645 

CALL 

KIN 

i ignore  the  keypress 

646 

RET 

i  and  quit 

647 

; 

648 

COMPARE 

1  COMPARE  INPUT  FROM  CASSETTE  WITH  MEMORY 

649 

CALL 

SETUP 

650 

CALL 

CRLF 

651 

MOV 

SI.  OFFSET 

COMHEAD       i   print  header 

652 

CALL 

PRINTMESS 

653 

CALL 

BLANK 

654 

CALL 

CPROMPT 

655 

CALL 

READINIT 

656 

CALL 

LENGTHOUT 

657 

COMLOOP 

658 

CALL 

CIN 

;  get  char  from  cassette 

659 

CMP 

AL,  MCBX3 

; compare  with  memory 

660 

JNE 

COMERR 

;  no t  eq.ua  1  !  !  error 

661 

C0M1: 

INC 

BX 

;  i  f  equal 

662 

CALL 

CTLCHEK 

i   check  for  abort 

663 

LOOP 

COMLOOP 

jthen  continue  checking 

664 

RET 

665 

COMERR: 

PUSH 

AX 

666 

CALL 

CRLF 

667 

CALL 

OUTBX 

i   if  error. .  output  memory  address 

668 

CALL 

BLANK 

INE 

SOURCE 

669 

MOV 

AL,  MCBX: 

get  memory  data 

670 

MOV 

DH,  AL 

save  it  too 

671 

CALL 

HEXOUT 

output  what's  in  memor 

672 

CALL 

BLANK 

673 

POP 

AX 

restore  cassette  data 

674 

CALL 

HEXOUT 

output  it 

675 

CALL 

BLANK 

676 

XOR 

AL,  DH 

determine  bad  bits 

677 

CALL 

BINOUT 

and  print  in  binary 

678 

JMP 

C0M1 

continue 

679 

; 

680 

HEXMATH 

COMPUTE  SUM  AND  DIFFER 

681 

CALL 

SETUP 

get  the  numbers 

682 

PUSH 

BX 

save 

683 

PUSH 

DX 

them 

684 

CALL 

CRLF 

685 

MOV 

SI,  OFFSET  MHEAD 

686 

CALL 

PRINTMESS 

print  the  header 

687 

CALL 

CRLF 

6B8 

ADD 

BX,  DX 

sum 

6B9 

CALL 

OUTBX 

690 

CALL 

BLANK 

691 

POP 

DX 

restore 

692 

POP 

BX 

number  s 

693 

SUB 

BX,  DX 

difference 

694 

CALL 

OUTBX 

695 

RET 

696 

i 

697 

NTEST: 

, MEMORY 

TEST 

69B 

CALL 

SETUP 

get  start  and  end 

699 

CALL 

CLENGTH 

,  c  omp  ute  length 

700 

CALL 

CRLF 

701 

MTEST1: 

PUSH 

BX 

702 

PUSH 

CX 

703 

MTLOOP: 

MOV 

AL,  MCBX1 

; get  what's  there 

704 

MOV 

AH,  AL 

■>   save  it 

705 

NOT 

AL 

i  complement 

706 

MOV 

MLBX3,  AL 

;  a  n  d  store  it  bail! 

707 

MOV 

AL,  MCBX3 

iread  it  again 

708 

NOT 

AL 

; re-complement 

709 

CMP 

AL,  AH 

;  i  s  it  o .  k  .  ? 

710 

JNE 

SHORT    TERR 

;if  not  then  error1 

711 

MOV 

MCBXJ,  AH 

i  restore  previous  va'Sun 

712 

TNEXT: 

INC 

BX 

inext  location 

713 

CALL 

CTLCHLK 

; check  for  abort 

714 

LOOP 

MTLOOP 

i  continue 

715 

POP 

CX 

716 

POP 

BX 

717 

JMP 

MTEST  1 

; test  forever 

718 

; 

356        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


FC62 

EB10FD 

FC65 

EB09FE 

FC68 

E81AFD 

719 

720 
721 
722 


CALL 

CRLF 

CALL 

OUTBX 

CALL. 

BLANK. 

XOR 

AL,  AH 

i TELL  USER  ABOUT  HAD  MEMORY 

i   output  bad  addrc?f,f. 

»  and  a  b  lank 

; te 1 1  user  which 


MCS-86  MACRO  ASSEMBLER 


LOG   OBJ 


FC6D 

E85EFD 

FC70 

E812FD 

FC73 

E83CFD 

FC76 

EBEO 

FC78 

FC78 

EBB9FD 

FC7B 

FC7B 

E8F7FC 

FC7E 

E8F0FD 

FC81 

B90800 

FC84 

E8FEFC 

FC87 

8A07 

FC89 

E842FD 

FCBC 

50 

FC8D 

B02D 

FC8F 

E84800 

FC92 

58 

FC93 

E8C2FD 

FC96 

EB0890 

FC99 

8807 

FC9B 

43 

FC9C 

E2E6 

FC9E 

EBDB 

FCAO 

B0FC20 

FCA3 

74F4 

FCA5 

80FC0D 

FCA8 

7403 

FCAA 

E9FAFC 

FCAD 

8B07 

FCAF 

C3 

FCBO 

FCBO 

B9FFFF 

FCB3 

EB4AFD 

FCB6 

E8BCFC 

FCB9 

E830FC 

FCBC 

3C04 

FCBE 

7405 

FCCO 

8807 

FCC2 

43 

FCC3 

EBF4 

FCC5 

E8ADFC 

FCC8 

B040 

FCCA 

E80D00 

FCCD 

E8A1FD 

FCDO 

C3 

FCD1 

FCD1 

A052F4 

FCD4 

F6D0 

FCD6 

A252F4 

FCD9 

C3 

MCS-86  MACRO  ASSEMBLER 


723 

CALL 

HEXOUT 

724 

CALL 

BLANK 

725 

CALL 

BINOUT 

726 

JMP 

TNEX1 

727 

; 

728 

ESUBST: 

i 

729 

CALL 

SETUP 

730 

NUSLODP 

731 

CALL 

CRLF 

732 

CALL 

OUTBX 

733 

MOV 

CX,  B 

734 

SLOOP: 

CALL 

BLANK 

735 

MOV 

AL,  MCBX3 

736 

CALL 

HEXOUT 

737 

PUSH 

AX 

738 

MOV 

AL.  '-' 

739 

CALL 

VIDOUT 

740 

POP 

AX 

741 

CALL 

GETPARMAL 

742 

JMP 

GTEST 

743 

SNEXT: 

MOV 

MCBX3,  AL 

744 

INC 

BX 

745 

LOOP 

SLOOP 

746 

JMP 

NUSLOOP 

747 

QTEST: 

CMP 

AH,  '  ' 

748 

JE 

SNEXT 

749 

CMP 

AH,  ODH 

750 

JE 

Ql 

751 

JMP 

ERR 

752 

Ql: 

MOV 

MCBX],  AL 

753 

RET 

754 

i 

755 

AENTER: 

756 

MOV 

CX, OFFFFH 

757 

CALL 

GETPARMB 

758 

CALL 

CRLF 

759 

ELOOP: 

CALL 

CONIN 

760 

CMP 

AL,  CTLD 

761 

JE 

EEXIT 

762 

MOV 

MCBX3,  AL 

763 

INC 

BX 

764 

JMP 

ELOOP 

765 

EEXIT: 

CALL 

CRLF 

766 

MOV 

AL,  '«>' 

767 

CALL 

VIDOUT 

76B 

CALL 

OUTBX 

769 

RET 

770 

l 

771 

KTOGGLE 

772 

MOV 

AL,  BYTE  P 

773 

NOT 

AL 

774 

MOV 

BYTE  PTR 

775 

RET 

776 

; 

VID88 

i  bits  are    bad  in  hrx... 

; and  b  inar  y 
<  continue 

BSTITUTE  MEMORY  WITH  HEX  DATA 
;  get  address 

;  and 

«  print  i  t 

i  8  entries  per  lint- 

; get  what 's  there 
; and  print  it 

i  save  it 

; wi  th  a  p  romp t 

i  restore  i  t 

;  g  et  new  data 

;  check  for  qui  t 

i otherwise,  put  new  data  in  memory 

iand  continue 


if  blank  then 

continue 

if  carraige  return 

then  we  are  done 

otherwise.  .  error ! 

save  that  last  one?! 


i ENTER  ASCII  TEXT  IN  MEMORY 

i 64K  keypresses 

I  get  the  entry  address 


d  one? 

YES 

NO. .  put  data  in  memory 


output  the  ending  address 


■J  TOGGLE  THE  UPPER/LOWER  CASE  FLAG 
:FLAG3    ;  get  the*  flag 
;   togg  1  e 

*G"J,AL    >  put  flag  back 


LOC   OBJ 


LINE 
777  +1 


SOURCE 
*EJECT 


MCS-86  MACRO  ASSEMBLER 


LOC   OBJ 


SOURCE 


778 
779 
780 
781 
782 
783 
784 


*  VIDEO   DRIVFR  * 

Listing  1  continued  on  page  358 


November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc       357 


Listing  1  continued: 


FCDA 

50 

FCDB 

56 

FCDC 

57 

FCDD 

E80400 

FCEO 

5F 

FCE1 

5E 

FCE2 

58 

FCE3 

C3 

00E1 
OOEO 
OOEO 
00E1 
OOCO 
00E2 
0080 
0088 
0098 


FCE4  53 

FCE5  8B1E50F4 

FCE9  247F 

FCEB  7403 

FCED  E80600 

FCFO 

FCFO  891E50F4 

FCF4  513 

FCF5  C3 

FCF6  3C20 

FCF8  7303 

FCFA  EB7490 
FCFD 


785 
786 
787 
788 
789 
790 
791 
792 
793 
794 
795 
796 
797 
798 
799 
800 
801 
802 
803 
804 
805 
806 
807 
808 
809 
810 
811 
812 
813 
814 
815 
816 
817 
B18 
819 
820 
821 
822 
823 
824 
825 
826 
827 
828 
829 
830 
831 


*  DRIVES   TDL   VDB   VIDEO   INTERFACE  * 

*  * 

*  converted    from    8080    Assembler    with    CCJNV-86         * 

****#*###*#**#**##**#*«•*###**#*#»##  *##*###-&  ********* 
VIDEO  DRIVER 


PUSH 

PUSH 

PUSH 

CALL 

POP 

POP 

POP 

RET 


A)! 

SI 

DI 

VIDEO 

DI 

SI 

AX 


********    CONVERTED  CODE  BEGINS  HERE  ******** 


VDB  DRIVER 


VD 

VC 

XRD 

YRD 

YWR 

MRD 

MWR 

VMODE 

BMODE 


EQU 
EQU 
EQU 
EQU 
EQU 
EQU 
EQU 
EQU 
EQU 


PUSH 

MOV 

AND 

JZ 

CALL 

MOV 
POP 
RET 

CMP 
JAE 
JMP 


0E1H 

OEOH 

OEOH 

0E1H 

OCOH 

0E2H 

BOH 

8BH 

98H 


BX 


BX,  WORD  PTR  MCXYT 
AL,  7FH 
SHORT  L.  2 
VOUT 

WORD  PTR  MCXY3,  BX 
BX 


AL,  20H 
SHORT  L  3 
CNTL 


MCS-86  MACRO  ASSEMBLER 


VID8B 


LOC 

OBJ 

FCFD1 

3C7F 

FCFF 

7501 

FD01 

C3 

FD02 

FD02 

E6E1 

FD04 

FECF 

FD06 

7401 

FD08 

C3 

FD09 

FD09 

B750 

FDOB 

FECB 

FDOD 

7401 

FDOF 

C3 

FD10 

FD10 

FEC3 

FD12 

53 

FD13 

52 

FD14 

51 

FD15 

B098 

FD17 

E6E0 

FD19 

32C0 

FD1B 

E6E0 

FD1D 

BA50C1 

FD20 

8AC6 

FD22 

E6E0 

FD24 

8AEA 

FD26 

BB00F4 

FD29 

E4E1 

FD2B 

8807 

FD2D 

9F 

FD2E 

43 

FD2F 

9E 

FD30 

FECD 

FD32 

75F3 

FD34 

8AC6 

INE 

SOURCE 

832 

CMP 

AL, 

7FH 

833 

JNZ 

SHORT  L_4 

834 

RET 

835 

L_4: 

836 

OUT 

VD, 

AL 

837 

DEC 

BH 

838 

JZ 

SHORT  L.  5 

839 

RET 

840 

k_5: 

841 

MOV 

BH 

80 

B42 

DEC 

BL 

843 

JZ 

SHORT  L...6 

844 

RET 

845 

L_6: 

846 

V02: 

INC 

BL 

847 

; 

848 

SCROLL: 

PUSH 

BX 

849 

PUSH 

DX 

850 

PUSH 

CX 

B51 

MOV 

AL 

BMUDE 

852 

OUT 

VC 

AL 

853 

XOR 

AL 

AL 

854 

OUT 

VC 

AL 

855 

MOV 

DX 

OC 1  50H 

856 

MOV 

AL 

DH 

857 

SI: 

OUT 

VC 

AL 

858 

MOV 

CH 

DL 

859 

MOV 

BX 

VIDBUF 

860 

LI  : 

IN 

AL 

VD 

861 

MOV 

MtBXD,  AL 

862 

LAHF 

863 

INC 

BX 

864 

SAHF 

865 

DEC 

CH 

866 

JNZ 

LI 

867 

MOV 

AL 

DH 

358        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  274  on  inquiry  card. 


FD36 

FECB 

868 

DEC 

AL 

FD3S 

E6EO 

869 

OUT 

VC,  AL 

FD3A 

BB00F4 

870 

MOV 

BX,  VIDBUF- 

FD3D 

8AEA 

871 

MOV 

CH,  DL 

FD3F 

8A07 

872 

L2: 

MOV 

AL, MfBXJ 

FD41 

E6E1 

873 

OUT 

VD,  AL 

FD43 

9F 

874 

LAHF 

FD44 

43 

875 

INC 

BX 

FD45 

9E 

876 

SAHF 

FD46 

FECD 

877 

DEC 

CH 

FD48 

75F5 

878 

JN7 

L2 

FD4A 

FEC6 

879 

INC 

DH 

FD4C 

8ACA 

880 

MOV 

AL,  nn 

FD4E 

3CD9 

881 

CMP 

AL,  0B9H 

FD50 

73D0 

882 

JB 

SI 

FDSa 

8AEA 

883 

MOV 

CH,  Dl 

FD54 

B020 

884 

MOV 

AL,  BOH 

FD56 

E6E1 

i6    MACRO 

885 
ASSEMBLER 

S2: 

OUT 

VD,  AL 

MCS-E 

VI  DOS 

LOC 

OBJ 

LINE 

SOURCE 

FDSS 

FECD 

886 

DEC 

CH 

FD5A 

7  5FA 

887 

JNZ 

S2 

FD5C 

59 

888 

POP 

CX 

FD5D 

5A 

889 

POP 

DX 

FD5E 

5B 

B90 

POP 

BX 

FD5F 

B088 

891 

SETCAV 

MOV 

AL,  VMODE 

FD61 

E6E0 

892 

OUT 

VC,  AL 

FD63 

B050 

893 

SETCUR: 

MOV 

AL,  80 

FD65 

2AC7 

894 

SUB 

AL,  BH 

FD67 

E6E0 

895 

OUT 

VC,  AL 

FD69 

30D9 

896 

MOV 

AL, 25+0C0H 

FD6B 

2AC3 

897 

SUB 

AL,  BL 

FD6D 

E6E0 

898 

OUT 

VC,  AL 

FD6F 

C3 

899 
900 

RET 

FD70 

3C0D 

901 

CNTL: 

CMP 

AL,  CR 

FD72 

7422 

902 

JZ 

SHORT    CCR 

FD74 

3C0A 

903 

CMP 

AL.  1  F 

FD76 

7415 

904 

JZ 

SHORT     CLF 

FD78 

3C0C 

905 

CMP 

AL,  FF 

FD7A 

741E 

906 

JZ 

SHORT    CFF 

FD7C 

3C08 

907 

CMP 

AL,  BS 

FD7E 

7401 

908 

JZ 

SHORT    CBS 

FD80 

C3 

909 

RET 

FD81 

B04F 

910 

CBS: 

MOV 

AL,  79 

FD83 

2AC7 

911 

SUB 

AL,  BH 

FD85 

7901 

912 

JNS 

SHORT    L_0 

FD87 

C3 

913 

RET 

FD88 

914 

L_8: 

FD88 

E6E0 

915 

OUT 

VC,  AL 

FDSA 

FEC7 

916 

INC 

BH 

FD8C 

C3 

917 

RET 

FD8D 

FECB 

918 

CLF: 

DEC 

BL 

FD8F 

7503 

919 

JNZ 

SHORT    L._9 

FD91 

E97CFF 

920 

JMP 

V02 

FD94 

921 

L_9: 

FD94 

EBCD 

922 

JMP 

SETCUR 

FD96 

B750 

923 

CCR: 

MOV 

BH,  80 

FD98 

EBC9 

924 

JMP 

SETCUR 

FD9A 

B098 

925 

CFF: 

MOV 

AL,  BMODE 

FD9C 

E6E0 

926 

OUT 

VC,  AL 

FD9E 

BBD007 

927 

MOV 

BX,  25*80 

FDA1 

32C0 

928 

CFF1: 

XOR 

AL,  AL 

FDA3 

E6E1 

929 

OUT 

VD,  AL 

FDA5 

9F 

930 

LAHF 

FDA6 

4B 

931 

DEC 

BX 

FDA7 

9E 

932 

SAHF 

FDA8 

SAC7 

933 

MOV 

AL,  BH 

FDAA 

0AC3 

934 

OR 

AL,  BL 

FDAC 

75F3 

935 

JNZ 

CFF1 

FDAE 

BB1950 

936 

MOV 

BX, 256«80+25 

FDB1 

EBAC 

937 
938 

JMP 

SETCAV 



939 

ABS_0 

ENDS 

MCS-B6  MACRO  ASSEMBLER     VID8B 

LOC   OBJ  LINE      SOURCE 

F80F  940  END       INIT 

ASSEMBLY  COMPLETE,  NO  ERRORS  FOUND 


MARK  GORDON 

COMPUTERS 

DIVISION  OF  MARK  GORDON  ASSOCIATES,  INC. 

P.O.  BOX  77,  CHARLESTOWN,  MASSACHUSETTS  02129 
(617)242-2749       (617)491-7505 

SD  SYSTEMS  COMPUTER  KITS 

•  EXPANDORAM  I  (No  RAMS) 169.00 

•  VERSAFLOPPY  CONTROLLER  I  . .  189.00 

•  SBC-100  Single  Board  Kit 239.00 

•  Z80  Starter 269.00 

OTHER  SPECIALS 

•  16K  Memory  Kit 49.00 

•  CAT  Modem 151.00 

•  Leedex  Monitor 109.00 

•  Atari  400 499.00 

•  Atari  800 779.00 

•  Hazeltine  1410 699.00 

To  Order  Call  Toil-Free  1-800-343-5206 

ORDERING  INFORMATION 

We  accept  Visa  and  Mastercharge.  We  will  ship  C.O.D.  certified 
check  or  money  order  only.  Massachusetts  residents  add  5  percent 
sales  tax. 

The  Company  cannot  be  liable  for  pictorial  or  typographical  Inaccuracies 

ATTENTION 

COMMODORE 

DISK  OWNERS 


Never  sort  another  disk  file! 

With  Creative  Software's  ISAM  file  handling  routine,  your  files 
are  always  maintained  in  sorted  order.  2K  bytes  of  assembly 
language  subroutines  allow  you  to: 

•  CREATE  a  new  ISAM  file 

•  OPEN  an  existing  file 

•  READ  key  and  data  from  file 

•  WRITE  key  and  data  to  file 

•  READNEXT  key  and  data  from  file 

•  DELETE   key  and  data  from  file 

•  CLOSE  file 

•  SUPPORTS  up  to  5  open  ISAM  files  simultaneously 

Available  for  16K  or  32K  CBM  computers  and  2040  disk  units 

899.95  +  S2.50  shipping 

Soon  to  be  available  for  CBM  8016  and  8032  computers  with  8050  disk 
drive.  Manual  available  separately  for  $15.00 


Creative  Software 

P.O.  BOX  4030,  MOUNTAIN  VIEW,  CA  94040 


Circle  275  on  inquiry  card.  November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc       359 


Text  continued  from  page  347: 

followed  by  a  RET  (return)  statement.  Then  replace: 


F8DE        DW        ERR 


ith 


F8DE 


DW        TESTMEM 


Notes  on  Performance 

How  does  the  8088  stack  up  in  performance  versus  the 
popular  8-bit  processors  of  the  1970s?  To  answer  this 
question,  we  must  develop  at  least  a  rough  definition  of 
what  we  mean  by  performance. 

To  evaluate  performance  I  use  three  criteria: 

•  the  execution  speed  for  a  set  of  applications, 

•  the  amount  of  memory  required  to  implement  the  ap- 
plications, and 

•  the  amount  of  software-development  effort  required 
for  application  implementation  (as  measured  by  lines  of 
assembly-language  code). 

An  appropriate  set  of  applications  will  include  a  mix  of 
mathematics,  data-handling  and  process-control-type 
programs.  In  addition,  both  execution-bound  (eg:  heavy 
calculation)  and  bus-bound  (eg:  bubble  sort)  applications 
should  be  included. 

This  article  is  not  meant  to  be  a  full-fledged  benchmark 
report.  Nevertheless,  using  my  own  background, 
manufacturer's  documentation,  and  other  sources,  I  have 
come  to  the  following  conclusions  concerning  the  5  MHz 
8088,  which  on  the  average: 

•  is  1.5  to  5  times  faster  than  the  fastest  versions  of  other 
popular  8-bit  machines  (ie:  Z80B,  68B09,  6800,  8080A, 
etc), 

•  will  typically  require  only  50%  to  75%  of  the  memory 
devoted  to  code  by  these  other  machines  for  a  set  of  ap- 
plications, and 

•  requires  substantially  less  (as  little  as  50%  or  less)  lines 
of  code  to  implement  a  benchmark  than  these  other 
machines. 

Execution  speed  is  the  most  visible  measure  of  perfor- 
mance. Factors  which  contribute  to  the  8088's  superiority 
are: 

•  The  high  standard  clock  rate:  The  standard  8088  runs 
at  5  MHz  (in  fact,  possibly  faster  if  you're  willing  to  ex- 
periment). Intel  claims  that,  next  year,  specially  selected 
8  MHz  8088s  will  be  available.  If  5  MHz  8088s  are  fast, 
8  MHz  8088s  will  be  unreal. 

•  The  pipelined  architecture:  This  architecture  allows 
overlapped  instruction  fetch  and  execution,  eliminating  a 
traditional  performance  limitation  present  in  other  8-bit 
machines. 

•  The  16-bit  internal  data  paths:  These  enhance  data 
movement  and  manipulation  capability. 

•  Its  rich  set  of  arithmetic  instructions:  Math-oriented 
applications  are  served  exceptionally  well  by  the  8088. 
The  5  MHz  8088  can  do  most  16-bit  integer  math  (add, 
subtract,  multiply,  divide)  faster  than  a  9511  hardware 
math  chip. 


•  Powerful  addressing  modes:  The  8088  allows  up  to 
four  address  components  to  be  used  in  calculating  an  ab- 
solute physical  memory  address.  In  addition,  most  in- 
structions can  operate  directly  on  a  memory  location, 
eliminating  the  traditional  accumulator  bottlenck  found 
in  other  machines. 

The  amount  of  memory  required  can  have  significant 
cost  ramifications  for  an  application.  Here  again,  the 
16-bit  internal  organization  and  powerful  addressing 
modes  of  the  8088  reduce  memory  requirements.  In  ex- 
treme cases  (heavily  word-  or  math-oriented)  the  8088 
can  implement  applications  in  as  little  as  20%  to  30%  of 
the  memory  of  other  8-bit  machines. 

The  number  of  lines  of  code  required  to  implement  an 
application  becomes  more  and  more  of  an  issue  each  day. 
For  instance,  the  Department  of  Defense  states  that  one 
line  of  debugged,  documented  code  now  costs  close  to 
$60.  Programming  costs  continue  to  rise,  while  produc- 
tivity remains  relatively  fixed.  This  suggests  a  real  "soft- 
ware crisis"  in  the  1980s. 

The  8088  can  require  as  little  as  50%  (average  perhaps 
75%)  of  the  lines  of  code  as  compared  to  other  8-bit 
machines.  This  is  because  one  assembly-language  instruc- 
tion can  generate  up  to  6  bytes  of  code,  and  the  instruc- 
tions implemented  are  very  powerful  relative  to  other 
popular  microprocessors. 

A  summary  chart  of  my  findings  is  shown  in  figure  3. 
The  relative  performance  of  the  8088  (5  MHz),  6809 
(2  MHz)  and  Z80A  (4  MHz)  are  shown,  with  an  8086 
(true  16-bit  machine)  thrown  in  for  reference.  A  differen- 
tiation between  word-  or  bus-oriented  and  byte-  or 
execution-oriented  applications  must  be  made  here.  Note 
that  the  bus-oriented  versus  execution-oriented  differen- 
tiation does  not  apply  to  nonpipelined  machines  like  the 
Z80A  or  6809.  The  byte-orientation  versus  word-orienta- 
tion differentiation  does  affect  the  performance  of  these 
machines. 

Full-speed  memories  are  assumed  as  shown  below: 


Processor 
5  MHz    8088,  8086 
2  MHz         6809 
4  MHz        Z80A 


Access  Time  (approximately) 
480  ns 
320  ns 
250  ns 


As  shown  above,  the  8088  can  function  at  maximum 
speed  but  still  use  slower  memory  than  the  other 
microprocessors.  In  many  cases  (especially  EPROMs), 
slower-memory-speed  selected  parts  have  much  lower 
prices  than  faster  selections. 

Essentially,  the  8088  has  from  1.5  to  2.5  times  the  per- 
formance of  the  fastest  8-bit  competition.  Of  course,  the 
performance  improvement  over  older  8-bit  processors 
(ie:  6800s,  8080As,  etc)  is  even  higher. 

Finale 

In  the  text  box  on  pages  344  thru  346  you  will  find  a 
full  description  of  each  MON88  command.  A  complete 
listing  of  the  monitor  program  is  given  in  listing  1. 

The  8088  is  not  only  the  highest  performance  8-bit  pro- 
cessor available,  but  represents  a  "bridge"  to  the  new 
architectures  of  the  1980s.  I  hope  that  you  have  found  the 
8088  project  as  challenging,  educating  and  rewarding  as  I 
have.  Welcome  to  the  future! ■ 


360        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Add  Macro  Expansion 
to  Your  Microcomputer 

Part  2 


David  C  Brown 

1704  Manor  Rd 

Havertown  PA  19083 


Last  month,  I  discussed  the  definition  and  use  of  the 
macro  instruction  and  detailed  a  set  of  requirements  for  a 
macro  processor.  Part  1  also  gave  an  overview  in  the 
form  of  text  and  flowcharts  of  how  this  macro  processor 
would  operate.  Figures  1  thru  11  provide  a  more  detailed 
flowchart  of  these  processes  and  roughly  correspond  to 
the  overview  flowcharts  in  figure  1  of  Part  1  of  this  article 
(October  1980  BYTE,  page  162).  Frequent  reference 
should  be  made  back  to  these  overview  flowcharts  when 
reading  the  detailed  flowcharts  of  figures  1  thru  11.  A 
glossary  of  terms  appears  on  page  371. 

This  completes  the  explanation  of  the  macro  definition 
and  expansion.  In  the  rest  of  the  article  I  will  discuss  the 
interface  of  the  macro  processor  to  an  assembler,  as  well 
as  possible  enhancements. 

Alternate  Implementation  Approaches 

The  last  hurdle  to  clear  is  how  to  tie  this  macro  facility 
into  your  assembler.  Basically,  there  are  two  ways  this 
can  be  done,  preprocessor  or  in-line.  The  approach  used 
depends  upon  your  situation. 

The  simplest  way  to  use  your  macro  processor  is  as  a 
preprocessor.  This  can  be  done  in  two  ways.  In  the  first 
way,  the  macro  processor  is  a  separate  program,  reading 
your  source  program  and  writing  an  output  file  of  ex- 
panded code  to  cassette,  paper  tape,  floppy  disk,  etc;  it  is 
this  output  file  that  is  read  into  the  assembler  instead  of 
the  original  source.  While  this  is  the  easiest  way  to  use  the 
preprocessor,  it  is  also  the  worst  from  the  viewpoint  of 
efficiency,  requiring  an  intermediate  file  and  a  longer  run 
time.  However,  if  you  cannot  modify  the  assembler  itself, 
this  may  be  the  only  approach  you  can  take. 

A  second,  more  efficient,  preprocessor  approach  is  to 
locate  the  read  routine  in  the  assembler  and  replace  it 


Listing  1:  Example  of  keyword  parameters.  A  change  that  can  be 
made  in  the  macro  assembler  involves  the  use  of  keyword 
parameters.  These  allow  the  user  to  specify  variable  symbol 
values  in  any  order  or  by  default.  The  macro  definition  for 
MOVE  is  given  in  listing  la;  two  examples  of  a  macro  call  and 
its  resulting  code  are  given  in  listings  lb  and  lc.  In  listing  lb, 
both  &TO  and  &FROM  are  assigned  the  default  values  given  in 
the  prototype  statement  of  the  macro  definition.  In  listing  lc, 
the  value  for  &FROM  is  specified  by  default.  Note  the  absence 
of  the  ampersand  in  naming  variable  symbols  within  the  macro 
call. 


(la) 

1. 

MACRO 

2. 

&JUMP  MOVE 

&TO  =  FIELDB.&FROM  =  FIELDA,&LENGTH  = 

3. 

LXI 

B,&TO 

4. 

LXI 

D.&FROM 

5. 

MVI 

H.&LENGTH 

6. 

&JUMP  L 

D 

7. 

STAX 

B 

8. 

INX 

B 

9. 

INX 

D 

10. 

DCR 

H 

11. 

JNZ 

&JUMP 

12. 

MEND 

(lb) 

LOOP 

MOVE 

LENGTH  =  10 

LXI 

B.FIELDB 

LXI 

D.FIELDA 

MVI 

H.10 

LOOP 

LDAX 

D 

STAX 

B 

INX 

B 

INX 

D 

DCR 

H 

INZ 

LOOP 

(lc) 

LOOP 

MOVE 

LENGTH  =  9,TO  =  NEW 

LXI 

B.NEW 

LXI 

D.FIELDA 

MVI 

H,9 

LOOP 

LDAX 

D 

STAX 

B 

INX 

B 

INX 

D 

DCR 

H 

JNZ 

LOOP 

November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc       361 

with  a  call  to  the  macro  processor.  This  is  the  direction 
taken  in  my  flowcharts  since  it  is  a  compromise  between 
a  separate  program  and  making  major  revisions  to  the 
assembler. 

Replacing  the  read  routine  is  not  as  easy  as  it  sounds, 
however.  Microprocessor  assemblers  typically  use 
character  assembly  rather  than  line  assembly.  They  read 
the  source  statement  one  character  at  a  time  and  process 
each  character  as  it  is  read  rather  than  reading  an  entire 
source  statement  and  having  the  whole  statement 
available  to  work  on.  My  flowcharts  are  designed  for  line 
assembly  in  that  a  model  statement  is  completely  expand- 
ed before  it  is  passed  to  the  assembler. 

If  your  assembler  uses  character-assembly  processing, 
it  will  call  the  macro  processor  for  each  character.  This 
will  require  the  read  routine  to  expand  the  model  state- 
ment on  the  first  call  and  pass  it  one  character  at  a  time  to 
the  assembler  on  successive  calls  until  it  is  completely 
transferred,  at  which  point  the  read  routine  will  expand 
the  next  model  statement.  You  can  also  modify  the 
model-expansion  routines  to  pass  the  statement  a 
character  at  a  time  directly  from  the  expansion  routines, 
but  this  is  a  little  more  difficult. 

The  worst  drawback  of  either  preprocessor  approach  is 
that  every  operation  code  is  looked  up  twice,  once  by  the 
macro  processor  to  check  for  macro  calls  and  once  by  the 
normal  assembler.  This  is  quite  time-consuming.  Perhaps 
the  most  efficient  way  to  incorporate  macro  processing  is 
to  put  the  macro  processing  in-line  with  the  assembler's 
operation-code-lookup  and  read  routines.  This  requires 

Text  continued  on  page  366 


FREE  SOFTWARE 


mm 


Unretouched  photograph 

•  TEKTRONICS  EMULATOR 

•  PRINTER  INTERFACES 

•  CHARACTER  GENERATOR 

Designed  to  work  with  the  CDL 

DYNAMIC  BLACKBOARD 

High  Resolution  Graphics  Interface 

51  2  x  640  Matrix  •  High  Speed  •  Gray  tones  and  color 
Light  pen  •  Fast  delivery  •  2-year  field  experience. 

'Offer  good  until  January  31 ,  1  981 . 

Send  for  brochure  and  data. 


CAMBRIDGE  DEVELOPMENT 
LABORATORY 

36  Pleasant  Street,  Watertown,  MA  021  72 
(617)  926-0869 


The  worst  drawback  of  the 
preprocessor  approach  is  that  every 
operation  code  is  looked  up  twice. 


f        MAIN         J 


ASSEMBLER 

INITIALIZATION 

CODE 


BUILD  INITIAL 
MACRO  STACK  ENTRY 
OF   ALL   ZEROS 


CHECK   MACRO- 
LEVEL  OF  CURRENT 
MACRO   STACK  ENTRY 


LOAD  MODEL- 
POINTER   FROM 
ENTRY   IN   MACRO 
STACK 


SET  MODEL-POINTER 
TO  BEGINNING  OF 
SOURCE  STATEMENT 


(■—•   ) 


IS  OPCODE  OF  STATE- 
MENT  IN  MACRO   DIREC- 
'     ORY 


ALLOCATE  SYMBOL 
TABLE  FOR  MACRO 
EXPANSION 


CHECK   MACRO- 
LEVEL   OF   CURRENT 
MACRO  STACK  ENTRY 


MOVE   SOURCE    FILE 
STATEMENT   TO 
STATEMENT  BUILD   AREA 


Figure  1:  Overview  flowchart  for  macro  definition  and  expan- 
sion. This  flowchart,  MAIN,  takes  an  assembly-language  file 
containing  both  macro  definitions  and  macro  calls,  stores  the 
definitions,  expands  macro  calls,  and  completes  the  work  of  a 
regular  assembler.  The  boxes  marked  with  asterisks  represent 
the  code  that  performs  the  assembler  functions;  the  remaining 
boxes  represent  the  code  that  is  added  through  modification  of 
the  assembler's  "read  source"  routine  to  implement  the  macro 
facility.  Refer  to  the  flowcharts  in  figures  2  thru  11  on  pages  363 
thru  370. 


362        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  276  on  inquiry  card. 


(     STORE      ) 


SET  MACHO-SWITCH  -3 


LOAD  UP  MODEL 
AND  DIRECTORY 
ENTRY  POINTERS 


PRINT   "ERROR 
MISPLACED   MACRO/ 
MENO"  ERROR 
STATEMENT 


CLEAR    PARAMETER 
COUNT  AND  LABEL 
INDICATOR  IN 
DIRECTORY  ENTRY 


SET  MACRO-SWITCH  •  1 


READ  NEXT 

SOURCE   STATEMENT 


'SOURCE^ 
YES    /FILE  EMPTY 


PRINT     ERROR- 
PREMATURE  END  OF 
FILE"  ERROR  MESSAGE 


DELETE   THIS 
INCOMPLETE  DEFINITION 
FROM  DIRECTORY 


INITIALIZE 
DIRECTORY   ENTRY 


(     RETURN     J 


STORE  PROTOTYPE 
PARAMETERS 


PRINT      ERROR 
INVALID  CONTINUATION" 
ERROR   STATEMENT 


SET  MACRO-SWITCH  =  3 


STORE  MODEL 
STATEMENT 


PROCESS  MEND 
STATEMENT 


(     RETURN     J 


Figure  2:  Flowchart  for  STORE  subroutine.  This  subroutine  stores  an  entire  macro  definition  within  the  macro-definition  storage 
area.  MACRO-SWITCH  is  a  flag  that  tells  the  program  what  kind  of  line  the  routine  is  expecting  next.  MACRO-SWITCH =0  means 
that  the  computer  is  ready  to  process  a  new  macro  definition.  MACRO-SWITCH =1  means  that  the  computer  has  found  a  MACRO 
statement  and  is  looking  for  the  prototype  statement.  MACRO-SWITCH =2  means  that  the  computer  is  ready  to  process  the  second 
line  of  the  prototype  statement,  if  there  is  one.  MACRO-SWITCH =3  means  the  computer  is  ready  to  process  the  body  of  the  macro 
definition. 


November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc       363 


(3) 


(    PROTO  1     j 


SET  MACRO- 
SWITCH  =  2 


VALIDATE   VARIABLE 
SYMBOL  LENGTH 


ADD  1    TO   PARAMETER 
COUNT  IN  DIRECTORY 
ENTRY 


STORE   LABEL   IN 
VARIABLE    SYMBOL 
1    OF   DIRECTORY 


MOVE   1  TO  LABEL 
INDICATOR   IN 
DIRECTORY   ENTRY 


STORE  OPCODE    IN 
MACRO   NAME  OF 
DIRECTORY    ENTRY 


PROTO   2 


STORE 

PROTOTYPE 

PARAMETERS 


(    RETURN     ) 


Figure  3:  Flowchart  for  PROTOl  subroutine.  This  subroutine  stores  the  prototype  label,  if 
any,  the  macro  name,  and  calls  PROT02  to  store  the  prototype  variable  symbols. 


Figure  4:  Flowchart  for  PROT02  subroutine.  This  subroutine  stores  the  variable  symbols  of  a 
macro  prototype  statement  in  the  directory. 


Figure  5:  Flowchart  for  MEND  subroutine.  This  subroutine  does  several  housekeeping  chores 
associated  with  ending  a  macro  definition. 


(4) 


f  PROTO  2     J 


LOCATE   NEXT 
OPERAND  ON 
PROTOTYPE   STATEMENT 


YES 


VALIDATE   VARIABLE 
SYMBOL    LENGTH 


ADD   1  TO  THE 
PARAMETER    COUNT 
IN  DIRECTORY    ENTRY 


SET   MACRO- 
SWITCH  TO  3 


STORE    SYMBOL    IN 
NEXT   VARIABLE    SYM- 
BOL   OF  DIRECTORY 


f    RETURN     J 


(5) 


f      MEND      J 


STORE   A  FORM 
FEED   CHARACTER 
AT  POSITION  GIVEN 
BY  MODEL-POINTER 


ADD  1  TO 
MODEL-POINTER 


CALCULATE  LOCATION 
OF  NEXT  DIRECTORY 
ENTRY 


STORE  VALUE  OF 
MODEL-POINTER   IN 
NEXT   DIRECTORY 
ENTRY 


SET   MACRO-SWITCH  =  0 


(     RETURN    J 


CALCULATOR  MODULE  SELECTOR 


libraries  or  a  total  of  20,000 


for  Texas  Instruments  59/58  Calculator 

Holds  four  Solid  State  Software" 
program  steps. 

Effectively  quadruples  the  power  of  a  Tl  59  or  58  calculator  by 
providing  continuous  access,  under  program  or  manual  control,  to 
any  routine  in  any  module. 

Four  LED  lamps  on  the  selector  can  be  activated  to  illuminate  a 
prompting  message  or  serve  as  a  status  indicator. 

Attaches  to  the  calculator  through  the  module  port  and  can  also  be 
used  with  the  PC  100  printer. 

Completely  portable  requiring  no  external  power  supply  or  batteries. 

Assembled,  tested  and  warranted  for  ninety  days. 


i  N.  Bowser 
Richardson,  TX  75080     **^v4 
(214)  238-1815 


364       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  387  on  inquiry  card. 


f       MODEL      J 


SET   INPUT-POINTER 
TO   START  OF 
STATEMENT 


MOVE   1   CHARACTER 
FROM  INPUT  AREA  TO 
MODEL    AREA   USING 
RESPECTIVE  POINTERS 


ADD  1  TO 

INPUT-POINTER 


ADD   1    TO 
MODEL -POINTER 


STORE  HEXADECIMAL 
"FFH  AT   MODEL 
POINTER 


ADD  1  TO 
MODEL-POINTER 


STORE    A    CARRIAGE 

RETURN   AT  POSITION 
OF  MODEL-POINTER 
IN   MODEL    AREA 


(     RETURN    j 


Figure  6:  Flowchart  for  MODEL  subrou- 
tine. This  subroutine  stores  one  model 
statement  of  a  macro  definition  in  the 
macro-storage  area. 


f      ALLOC      J 


SET  MACRO-LEVEL, 
SYMBOL- TABLE -POINTER, 
AND  VALUE -STORAGE- 
POINTER   TO  VALUES 
FOUND  IN  CURRENT 
MACRO    STACK   ENTRY 


STORE   MACRO-LEVEL 

IN  CURRENT  (NEW) 
MACRO   STACK  ENTRY 


STORE    ADDRESS  OF 
DIRECTORY   ENTRY   IN 
NEW  MACRO  STACK   ENTRY 


ADD   1   TO   SYSNDX 
AND    STORE   AS  A   2-BYTE 
BINARY  NUMBER    IN 
VALUE  STORAGE    AREA 
STARTING   AT  VALUE- 
STORAGE  -  POINTER 


STORE    "aSYSNDX" 
VALUE  OF  VALUE- 
STORAGE-POINTER, 
2,   AND  "A"  IN 
CURRENT  SYMBOL 
TABLE  ENTRY 


POINT   DIRECTORY- 
SYMBOL-POINTER 
TO  VARIABLE   SYMBOL 
1     IN   CURRENT 
DIRECTORY   ENTRY 


POINT  MODEL-POINTER 
TO  FIRST  OPERAND 
ON   STATEMENT 


STORE   SYMBOL- 
TABLE-POINTER, 
VALUE-STORAGE- 
POINTER   IN 
MACRO-STACK  ENTRY 


INCREMENT 
MODEL- POINTER 
UNTIL    CARRIAGE 
RETURN  IS   FOUND, 
THEN   ADD  1 


STORE   MODEL- 
POINTER    IN 
CURRENT  MODEL 
ADDRESS  IN 
MACRO  STACK 


{      RETURN     J 


LOAD  UP  PARAMETER 
COUNT  FROM  CURRENT 
DIRECTORY  ENTRY 


¥ 


Figure  7:  Flowchart  for  ALLOC 
subroutine.  This  subroutine  is  called 
when  a  macro  call  is  found  in  the  body 
of  the  assembly-language  program;  it 
sets  up  pointers  in  the  macro  stack  and 
symbol  table  to  identify  the  current  values  of  the  variable  sym- 
bols as  defined  in  the  macro  call. 


ARE  YOU  STILL 
PLAYING  GAMES 


Get  down  to  business  with  CBS. 

THE  CONFIGURABLE  BUSINESS  SYSTEM™  is  a 
ready-made  set  of  programs  that  lets  you  customize 
your  computer  without  ever  using  a  complex 
programming  language. 

•  It  makes  accounting  a  1,2,3  operation. 

•  It  turns  inventories  into  child's  play. 

•  It  makes  mailing  lists  a  zip. 

In  fact,  CBS  now  makes  the  business  of  computers 
so  easy,  you  might  still  think  you're  playing  a  game! 


WITH  YOUR  COMPUTER? 


CP/M-  is  a  Trademark  of  Digital  Research  Corp. 


Disks  and  manual,  $395.  Manual  only,  $40. 

CBS  Disks  can  fit  any  8080  or  Z80  computer  with 
CP/M.*  Your  DMA  representative  can  tell  you  about 
PDOS,  our  CP/M  compatible  operating  system,  and 
ASCOM,  an  Asynchronous  Communication  Control 
Program. 

DMA  •  WE  SPEAK  YOUR  LANGUAGE 


DYNAMIC  MICROPROCESSOR  ASSOCIATES  •  545  Fifth  Avenue  •  New  York,  New  York  10017  •  (212)  953-1721  •  Master  Charge  and  VISA  accepted 


Circle  299  on  inquiry  card. 


November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc       365 


f      ENTER   J 


STORE  VARIABLE 
SYMBOL  POINTED  TO  BY 
DIRECTORY-SYMBOL- 
POINTER  IN  CURRENT  SYM- 
BOL TABLE  ENTRY 


STORE  VALUE 
LENGTH  IN  CURRENT 
SYMBOL  TABLE  ENTRY 


STORE  0  IN  LENGTH 
FIELD  OF  CURRENT 
SYMBOL  TABLE  ENTRY 


STORE  "S"  IN  INDICATOR 
FIELD  OF  CURRENT 
SYMBOL  TABLE  ENTRY 


STORE  VALUE -STORAGE- 
POINTER  IN  VALUE 
ADDRESS  OF  CURRENT 
SYMBOL  TABLE  ENTRY 


I       ARE    NEXT   TWO 

CHARACTERS    POINTED 

TO   BY  MODEL-POINTER  ■ 

I     ,  "a  a"  I 

i _!_ i 

IS   NEXT  CHARACTER 

POINTED   TO  BY  I 

MODEL-POINTER  =  "8" 


STORE   SAVED 
INDICATOR  IN 
CURRENT   SYMBOL 
TABLE  ENTRY 


RESTORE  OLD 

VALUE -STORAGE -POINTER 


I 


DOES  MODEL- 
I      POINTER   POINT 
I      TO  A  BLANK,  CARRIAGE         I 
I      RETURN, OR   COMMA  I 

I I 


^\.     NO 

ADD  1  TO 

MODEL-POINTER 

j? 

SAVE   SYM80L-TABLE- 
POINTER    AND 

VALUE -STORAGE- POINT- 
ER   TEMPORARILY 


SET   PASS- 
SWITCH  =  ON 


SUBSTITUTE   FOR 
VARIABLE    SYMBOL 


SET   PASS- 
SWITCH  =  OFF 


*- 

YES 

/MODE 

ADD    1  TO 
MODEL-POINTER 

/POINTER 
QED   AT  A    C 

SAVE  INDICATOR  IN  CURRENT 
SYMBOL   TABLE    ENTRY 


J 


Figure  8:  Flowchart  for  ENTER  subroutine.  This  subroutine,  called  by  ALLOC,  stores  the  current  value  of  a  variable  symbol  in  the 
symbol  table. 


Text  continued  from  page  362: 

source  listings  for  your  assembler  and  enough  courage  on 
your  part  to  modify  your  assembler.  The  operation-code- 
lookup  routine  must  be  modified  to  first  check  for  the 
identifier  MACRO,  at  which  point  it  stores  the  defini- 
tion. If  the  operation  code  is  not  MACRO  and  is  not 
found  in  the  assembler's  operation-code  table,  the 
assembler  must  then  look  it  up  in  the  macro  directory  and 
expand  it  if  found. 

In  using  this  in-line  approach,  you  also  have  to  modify 
the  read  routines  to  make  use  of  the  macro-level  counter, 
as  is  done  at  the  beginning  of  the  flowchart  in  figure  5. 
This  approach,  more  ambitious  than  the  others,  is  the 
best,  and  it  should  be  taken  if  you  have  the  assembler 
source  and  can  take  the  time.  It  will  result  in  an  efficient, 
well -integrated  assembler,  rather  than  a  patchwork  crea- 
tion. However,  if  this  route  cannot  be  taken,  the  power 
of  macro  facilities  is  probably  worth  the  inefficiency  of 
the  preprocessor  technique. 


Extensions 

If  you  are  really  ambitious,  there  are  several  other 
facilities  that  you  can  implement.  Many  of  these  facilities 
require  modifications  to  the  assembler  as  well  as  to  the 
macro  processor;  but  if  you  are  still  reading  at  this  point, 
maybe  you  feel  up  to  the  task. 

A  large  improvement  can  still  be  made  in  print 
facilities.  As  detailed  so  far,  the  macro  call  itself  never 
gets  to  the  assembler  for  printing  so  that  you  do  not 
know  from  looking  at  the  intermediate  source  listing 
which  statements  are  generated  by  the  macro  assembler 
and  which  are  in  the  original  source.  Ideally,  the  macro 
call  should  print  and  all  generated  statements  should  be 
identified  as  such.  One  solution  is  to  print  the  macro- 
level  indicator,  since  this  shows  the  level  of  nesting  when 
nested  macro  calls  are  used.  You  can  also  add  an 
assembler  directive  that  tells  the  assembler  whether  or 
not  to  print  the  generated  statements. 

Another  facility  that  you  can  implement  is  conditional 


366       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


1 


©- 


©- 


ADD  1  TO 
MODEL-POINTER 


STORE    VALUE- 
STORAGE  -POINTER 
IN  VALUE  ADDRESS 
FIELD  IN  CURRENT 
SYMBOL  TABLE  ENTRY 


DOES    MODEL-POINTER 
POINT  TO  A  BLANK,               ! 
CARRIAGE    RETURN, 
OR    COMMA 
I 


©" 


MOVE   CHARACTER 
FROM  MODEL-POINTER 
TO  VALUE-STORAGE- 
POINTER 


ADD  1  TO  LENGTH 
FIELD  OF  CURRENT 
SYMBOL  TABLE  ENTRY 


ADD  1  TO 

VALUE- STORAGE-POINTER 


£> 


ADD  1  TO 
MODEL-POINTER 


¥ 


SET  QUOTE  ■  ON 


— © 


SET  QUOTE -OFF 


— O 


assembly,  which  was  mentioned  in  Part  1  of  this  article. 
This  would  go  along  with  the  ability  to  define  local 
variable  symbols  within  the  body  of  the  macro  defini- 
tion; these  local  variable  symbols  would  be  used  for  loop 
control  and  arithmetic  within  the  macro  definition. 

Another  possible  modification  is  the  addition  of  global 
symbols  and  a  global  symbol  table.  This  would  allow 
you  to  pass  variable  symbols  from  one  macro  expansion 
to  another.  When  a  global  symbol  is  encountered,  you 
look  it  up  in  the  global  symbol  table  to  get  its  value.  If  it 
is  not  found  there,  it  is  added  to  the  global  symbol  table. 
This  global  table  does  not  have  its  entries  deleted  at  the 
end  of  the  macro  generation,  so  the  information  put 
there  is  still  present  whenever  the  next  macro  call  is  pro- 
cessed. 

The  method  for  handling  variable  symbols  and  their 
values  detailed  in  this  article  is  known  as  positional 
parameters.  This  means  that  the  first  variable  symbol  on 
the  prototype  assumes  the  first  value  on  the  macro  call, 
the  second  variable  symbol  assumes  the  second  operand 
value,  and  so  on.  A  more  flexible  method  is  keyword 
parameters.  With  keyword  parameters,  the  macro  pro- 
totype might  look  like  this: 

&LABEL    MOVE     &FROM=FIELDA, 
&TO  =  FIELDB,  &LENGTH  = 


The  macro  call  would  then  be  coded: 

LOOP2    MOVE  LENGTH = 14,FROM = FIELDC 

Keyword  operands  are  distinguished  by  an  equals  sign 
and  have  several  interesting  properties.  As  shown  in 
listing  la,  the  &FROM  =  and  &TO  =  variable  symbols  in 
the  prototype  specify  a  default  value — FIELDA  and 
FIELDB,  respectively.  If  the  FROM  and  TO  operands  are 
omitted  on  the  macro  call,  the  defaults  are  used  as  in 
listing  lb;  otherwise,  the  value  from  the  macro  call  is 
used,  as  in  listing  lc.  The  &LENGTH=  parameter  on  the 
prototype  has  no  default,  so  it  must  be  specified  on  the 
macro  call.  Also,  since  you  specify  the  keywords  on  the 
macro  call,  they  do  not  have  to  be  in  the  same  order  as 
specified  on  the  prototype.  Otherwise,  the  keywords  are 
used  in  the  macro-definition  statements  just  like  the  posi- 
tional parameters  I  have  been  discussing. 

Keyword  processing  requires  a  more  complicated 
loading  of  the  symbol  table  when  the  macro  call  is  en- 
countered; it  also  requires  modifications  to  the  routine 
that  stores  the  macro  definition,  since  the  defaults  will 
have  to  be  stored  in  the  value-storage  area  and  the  direc- 
tory entries  will  have  to  be  modified  to  point  to  the 
default  values.  It  is  a  lot  of  work,  but  it  is  much  more 
flexible. 


November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc       367 


These  are  just  some  of  the  enhancements  you  can  im- 
plement. If  you  have  access  to  the  IBM  Assembler 
Language  manual  (referenced  at  the  end  of  this  article), 
you  will  find  that  it  gives  much  more  detailed  explana- 
tions of  these  facilities,  plus  others  that  I  have  not  men- 
tioned. 

To  those  of  you  who  are  still  interested,  study  of  the 
text  and  flowcharts  of  this  article  is  all  you  need  do  before 
you  can  write  your  own  macro  assembler.  Once  you 
understand  the  processes  involved  ("walking  through" 
the  flowcharts  with  pencil  and  paper  will  help),  there  is 
no  reason  why  you  cannot  give  it  a  try.  After  all,  there's 
no  magic  to  system  software — it's  just  another 
program.  ■ 


References 

1.  Emmerichs,  J.  "Designing  the  'Tiny  Assembler'."  BYTE,  April 
1977,  page  60. 

2.  Fylstra,  D.  "Write  Your  Own  Assembler."  BYTE,  September  1975, 
page  50. 

3.  Graham,  R.  Principles  of  Systems  Programming.  New  York  NY: 
Wiley,  1975. 

4.  Grappel,  R  and  J  Hemenway.  "Jack  and  the  Machine  Talk." 
BYTE,  August  1976,  page  52. 

5.  Gries,  D.  Compiler  Construction  for  Digital  Computers.  New  York 
NY:  Wiley,  1971. 

6.  IBM    System    360/370    OS    Assembler    Language,     Manual 
GC28-6514. 

7.  Jewell,  G.  "Simplify  Your  Homemade  Assembler."  BYTE,  May 
1976,  page  74. 

8.  Wegner,  P.  Programming  Languages,  Information  Structures,  and 
Machine  Organization.  New  York  NY:  McGraw-Hill,  1968. 


(     EXPAND    J 

SET  STATEMENT- 
BUILD-POINTER   TO 
BEGINNING  OF 
STATEMENT- BUILD- AREA 

CLEAR  STATEMENT- 
BUILD-AREA  TO 
BLANKS 

^^MODEL-  ^v 
^^POINTER  AT    ^^  YES 

.      RETURN      jS 

Tno 

ADD   1  TO 
MODEL-POINTER 

SCAN 

MOVE   CARRIAGE 
RETURN  TO  END 
OF  LINE  IN 
STATEMENT  BUILD 
AREA    AND  INCREMENT 
STATEMENT-BUILD- 
POINTER 

SCAN    FOR 
VARIABLE    SYMBOLS 

jS MODEL-  \^ 

NO    S  POINTER  AT    ^V 

3                    jS 

[yes 

STORE     MODEL    POINTER 
IN    CURRENT    MODEL 
FIELD    OF    CURRENT 
MACRO    STACK    ENTRY 

SET  READ- 
SWITCH  .ON 

I 

1 

(     RETURN     j 

f    RETURN     J 

Figure  9:  Flowchart  for  EXPAND  subroutine.  This  subroutine 
expands  a  model  statement  using  the  current  values  of  the 
variable  symbols  as  found  on  top  of  the  symbol  table. 


l::ll»7iV*-rii 

APPLE-TIME      $150 

For  Your  APPLE...  The  Ultimate 
CLOCK/CALENDAR  Board 

MORE  FEATURES  FOR  LESS 

•  12  or  24  HR  Format 

•  Perpetual  Calendar  MM  DD  YY 

•  Crystal  Controlled  Time  Base 

•  Ultra  Fast  Time/Date  Setting 

•  4  Interrupts  Available 

•  Months  Of  On-Board  Battery 

Backup  Set  it  &  forget  it. 

MANY  MORE  FEATURES 


I 


^ 


r         1 
L        A 


TSR80  &  S100  MODRS  AVAIL  ABIF 


©Compu/Time  Dea|er  lnquires. 

P.O.  Box  5343 
Huntington  Beach.  Ca   92646  (714)  536-5000 

Makers  Of  Qualify  Low  Cost 
Microcomputer  Components 


CP/M®  USERS! 

The  ED-80  TEXT  EDITOR 


$50,000  in  Development  Costs  - 
Yours  for  Only  $99! 

For  all  CP/M,  Cromemco,  TRS-80 
Mod  II,  and  North  Star  Systems. 

Full  Screen  Text  Editor  w/Scrolling. 

For  all  CRT  and  Video  Monitors. 

Features  Found  only  on  IBM,  CDC, 
UNIVAC  and  DEC  Systems. 

Forward  or  Backward  Locate  and 
Change  Commands. 

Field  Proven  —  More  than  2  Years. 


A  Terrific 
Value  - 


$99 


00 


Write  for  FREE 
Color  Brochure 


Software  Development  &  Training,  Inc. 

Post  Office  Box  4511,  Dept.  B 
Huntsville,  Alabama  35802 

VISA  or  MC 


368        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Circle  279  on  Inquiry  card. 


Circle  280  on  inquiry  card. 


SCAN 


YES 


i       IS  MODEL-POINTER 
-J       POINTING  TO 

"aa"OR"at"  J 


YES 


SUBST 


SUBSTITUTE   FOR 
VARIABLE    SYMBOL 


YES 


DELETE  TOP  (MOST 
CURRENT)  ENTRY 
FROM   MACRO  STACK 


G 


•) 


YES 


MOVE  AN  "X"   TO 
POSITION   72  OF 
STATEMENT  BUILD 
AREA 


POINT    STATEMENT- 
BUILD- POINTER   TO 
POSITION    73  OF 
STATEMENT  BUILD 
AREA 


YES 


MOVE  1  CHARACTER  AS 
GIVEN   BY  POINTERS 
FROM   MACRO  MODEL 
AREA  TO  STATEMENT- 
BUILD-AREA 


SET  STATEMENT- 
BUILD-POINTER=10 


f    RETURN     J 


Figure  10:  Flowchart  for  SCAN  subroutine.  This  subroutine  scans  for  variable  symbols  in  the  model  statement  and  replaces  them  with 
their  most  recent  values;  it  also  restores  blanks  that  were  compressed  out  of  the  model  statement. 


November  I960  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc       369 


(     SUBST      J 


LOAD  SYMBOL- TABLE-POINTER 
FROM  SYMBOL 
TABLE  ADDRESS  IN 
CURRENT  MACRO   STACK  ENTRY 


ADD  1  TO  MODEL-POINTER 


IS 

"MODEL- 
NO  /    POINTER  AT 
,A    DELIMITER 

P 


<D 


MOVE  1  BYTE   FROM  VALUE 
STORAGE  AREA  TO  STATE- 
MENT BUILD  AREA 


i 


CONVERT  2   BINARY 
BYTES  POINTED  TO  BY 
VALUE -STORAGE- POINTER 
TO    5   CHARACTERS 


ADD  1  TO  STATEMENT-BUILD- 
POINTER  AND  VALUE-STOR- 
AGE-POINTER 


MOVE  THE  5  CHARACTERS  TO 
STATEMENT-BUILD- ARE  A 
USING   ITS  POINTER 


CALCULATE  LENGTH 
OF  VARIABLE   SYMBOL 


SUBTRACT    12  FROM 
SYMBOL- TABLE-POINTER 


ThAS  SYMBOL-TABLE-] 
I    POINTER    UNDER-         \- 
i    FLOWED  <<0> 

[7s  SYMBOL-TABLE- 
|  POINTER  AT  DESIRED  |_ 
VARIABLE   SYMBOL 


LOAD  VALUE-STORAGE- 
POINTER    FROM  VALUE 
ADDRESS  IN  SYMBOL 
TABLE  ENTRY 


f    RETURN    J 


PRINT  "ERROR- 
UNDEFINED  VARIABLE 
SYMBOL "  ERROR  MESSAGE 


LOAD  VALUE  LENGTH  FROM 
SYMBOL  TABLE   ENTRY 


SET  VALUE-STORAGE- 
POINTER  =  0, VALUE- 
LENGTH  =0 


n 


S  THE  INDICATOR  llTl 

THE  CURRENT SYM-    | 

BOL  TABLE  ENTRY*   l 
"S"  (STRING) 


Figure  11:  Flowchart  for  SUBST  subroutine.  This  subroutine,  called  by  SCAN,  substitutes  the  appropriate  value  for  its  corresponding 
variable  symbol  in  a  model  statement. 

370        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


GLOSSARY 


Conditional  Assembly:  a  feature  of  macro  assemblers  that  in- 
structs the  assembler  to  generate  or  leave  out  certain  lines  of 
assembly-language  code  based  on  a  given  condition 
evaluated  at  the  time  of  expansion. 

Descriptor:  useful  when  working  with  strings  of  characters. 
It  is  a  fixed-length  entry  containing  the  length  of  the  string 
and  a  pointer  to  where  the  string  starts  in  the  storage  area. 
(Symbol-table  entries  can  be  considered  descriptors.) 
Descriptors  are  used  frequently  in  assemblers  and  in  high- 
level  language  compilers. 

Directory:  it  contains  an  entry  for  every  macro  de- 
fined, pointing  to  the  start  of  the  model  statements  and  speci- 
fying the  variable  names  (from  the  macro  prototype)  that 
must  be  entered  into  the  symbol  table  before  the  macro  is 
evaluated. 

Global  Variable:  a  variable  whose  value  is  in  effect  for  the 
entire  assembly  and  for  every  macro  generation.  Use  of  a 
given  global  variable  name,  even  within  different  macros, 
refers  to  the  same  value  (unlike  local  variable  symbols,  the 
values  of  which  are  lost  at  the  end  of  the  macro  expansion). 
In  this  article,  &5YSNDX  is  a  global  variable. 

Inner  Macro:  a  macro  call  specified  within  the  model 
statements  of  another  macro.  When  a  macro  referred  to  as 
the  outer  macro  is  generating  statements  and  encounters  an 
inner  macro,  it  must  stop,  generate  the  statements  from  the 
inner  macro  call,  add  them  to  the  statements  belonging  to  the 
outer  macro,  then  continue  generating  its  own  statements. 

Keyword  Operand:  a  variable  symbol  followed  by  an  equals 
sign;  it  appears  only  on  the  macro  prototype  and  the  macro 
call.  Unlike  positional  parameters,  keyword  operands  can  be 
coded  in  any  order.  They  also  allow  the  ability  to  specify 
default  values  in  the  macro  prototype. 

Local  Variable:  a  variable,  the  value  of  which  is  in  effect  only 
for  the  macro  in  which  it  is  defined.  All  variable  symbols 
defined  in  macro  prototype  statements  are  local  variables. 
The  same  local  variable  symbol  name  used  in  another  macro 
is  treated  as  a  separate  variable,  even  though  the  names  are 
the  same. 

Macro:  a  user-defined  assembly-language  operation  code 
that  generates  one  or  more  assembler  instructions. 

Macro  Call:  a  pseudoinstruction  within  an  assembly- 
language  program  that  refers  to  a  macro  definition  of  the 
same  name.  The  eventual  result  is  the  replacement  of  the 
macro  call  statement  with  the  expanded  model  statements  of 
the  macro  definition. 

Macro  Definition:  a  sequence  of  statements  that  tell  the 
macro  processor  what  to  generate  when  replacing  the  macro- 
call  instruction.  It  is  made  up  of  a  MACRO  statement  that 
signals  the  beginning  of  the  macro,  a  prototype  statement 
that  defines  the  macro  name  and  its  operands,  a  series  of 
model  statements  that  replace  the  macro  call,  and  a  MEND 
statement  that  signals  the  end  of  the  macro  definition. 

Macro  Stack:  a  stack  of  certain  information  about  currently 
incompleted  macro  calls;  it  is  necessitated  by  the  ability  to 
call  a  macro  within  a  macro.  Each  macro-stack  entry  points 
to  the  directory  entry,  the  end  of  the  symbol  table,  and  the 
value-storage  area  for  the  macro. 


Model-Storage  Area:  an  area  of  computer  memory  set  aside 
for  storing  the  model  statements  of  all  macro  definitions.  The 
directory  entry  for  each  macro  points  to  the  start  of  that 
macro's  model  statements  in  the  model-storage  area. 

Pass  1:  the  assembler's  first  reading  of  source  statements. 
During  pass  1,  the  assembler  builds  its  symbol  table,  which 
includes  every  label  in  the  program,  and  checks  for  duplicate 
symbols. 

Pass  2:  the  assembler's  second  reading  of  the  source 
statements.  At  this  point,  all  symbols  are  known  to  the 
assembler  as  a  result  of  pass  1,  and  the  equivalent  machine 
code  can  be  generated  from  the  source  code. 

Positional  Operands:  when  the  variable  symbols  in  a  macro 
prototype  are  defined  as  positional  operands,  they  are 
assigned  values  from  the  list  of  operands  in  the  macro-call 
statement  in  the  order  that  they  are  defined  in  the  prototype. 
The  first  variable  symbol  on  the  prototype  gets  the  first 
operand  value,  and  so  on. 

Preprocessor:  a  routine  or  program  that  processes  and  usual- 
ly modifies  the  input  before  the  main  program  gets  it.  Macro 
facilities  are  often  written  as  preprocessors  that  replace 
macro  calls  with  their  expanded  assembly-language 
statements  before  passing  the  source  file  to  the  assembler. 

Prototype:  the  second  statement  in  the  macro  definition.  It 
defines  the  label  entry,  the  operation  code  (macro  name), 
and  the  allowable  operands  (in  the  form  of  variable  symbols) 
for  the  macro  call. 

Recursion:  a  technique  in  which  a  called  subroutine  calls 
itself.  A  recursive  function  must  be  designed  so  that  it  even- 
tually returns  a  value  rather  than  calling  itself  again;  other- 
wise, it  calls  itself  in  a  loop  that  never  finishes. 

Stack:  a  last-in,  first-out  list  that  allows  the  user  to  remove 
only  the  value  most  recently  placed  onto  the  stack.  Stacks 
are  similar  to  the  devices  used  to  dispense  plates  in  a 
cafeteria.  Plates  (values)  are  put  on  the  top  of  the  stack, 
pushing  down  all  the  others,  and  are  removed  from  the  top, 
causing  the  others  to  pop  up.  A  stack  in  programming  works 
the  same  way,  giving  rise  to  the  terms  PUSH  and  POP, 
which  are  commonly  used  when  talking  about  computer 
stacks. 

Symbol  Table:  a  stack  containing  an  entry  for  each  variable 
in  the  macro  prototype.  The  symbol-table  entry  specifies  the 
variable  name,  the  length  of  its  current  value,  and  the  ad- 
dress where  the  value  is  stored  in  the  value-storage  area. 

Text  Compression:  the  process  of  removing  all  unnecessary 
blanks  from  a  source  statement  in  order  to  reduce  the 
amount  of  space  needed  to  store  the  text. 

Value-Storage  Area:  an  area  of  memory  set  aside  for  storing 
the  values  associated  with  a  program's  variables.  The 
symbol-table  entry  for  each  variable  points  to  the  start  of 
that  variable's  value  and  specifies  the  value  length. 

Variable:  a  variable  (or  variable  symbol)  is  a  character  string 
that  can  have  many  different  values  assigned  to  it  by  either 
the  programmer  or  the  assembler.  Variables  can  be  either 
global  or  local;  most  references  to  variable  symbols  in  this  ar- 
ticle actually  refer  to  local  variable  symbols. 


November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc        371 


What's  New? 


PERIPHERALS 


The  HP  82900  Series  floppy-disk 
drives  read  double-sided,  double- 
density,  5-inch  floppy  disks,  and  can  be 
configured  to  provide  from  279  K  bytes 
to  1.08  megabytes  of  storage.  The  inter- 
face between  the  HP-85  and  the  disk 
drives  is  the  HP-85  Mass  Storage  ROM 
(read-only  memory).  The  ROM  makes 


Floppy-Disk  Drive  for  the  HP-85 

available  thirty  additional  BASIC  com- 
mands including  a  Translate  command, 
which  upgrades  written  tape-based  pro- 
grams for  use  on  the  drives;  the  ability 
to  store  and  retrieve  the  graphics  display 
on  the  video  screen;  automatic  default 
to  the  drive;  and  volume  labeling, 
allowing  users  to  refer  to  disks  by  name 


and  write  programs  independent  of  drive 
addresses.  Prices  for  the  floppy-disk 
drives  start  at  $1500  for  a  single-master 
drive  and  go  to  $2500  for  a  dual-master 
drive.  Contact  the  Inquiries  Manager, 
Hewlett-Packard  Co,  1507  Page  Mill  Rd, 
Palo  Alto  CA  94304. 
Circle  662  on  inquiry  card. 


Seven  Spinwriter  Thimble 
Fonts  from  NEC 

NEC  Information  Systems  Inc.  5 
Militia  Dr,  Lexington  MA  01273,  (617) 
862-3120,  has  introduced  Pica  10  Multi- 
lingual, Elite  12  Multilingual,  British 
Elite  12,  Greek /Times  Roman,  Scientific 
Times  Roman,  Super  Courier/ 
Publishers,  and  Light  Italic /Manifold 
type  fonts.  These  fonts  meet  the  special 
printing  requirements  of  many  in- 
dustries. The  multilingual  fonts  offer  the 
capability  of  printing  over  thirty 

■'^•IH^B 

£KPl>fi**p*»*p    1 

languages.  The  fonts  are  offered  on  the 
NEC  Spinwriter  series  of  55  character 
per  second  impact  printers  which  feature 
the  "thimble"  print  element. 

Circle  663  on  inquiry  card. 

Line  Driver  Meets  Bell  Mel 

Tuck  Electronics  has  announced  a 
line-driver  series  for  use  on  metallic 

allic-Line  Specifications 

pairs  from  0  to  9.6  kbs  for  4-wire  full- 
duplex  service.  The  driver  complies  with 

Where  Do  New  Products  Items 
Come  From? 

The  information  printed  in  the  new  products  pages  of  BYTE  is  obtained  from 
"new  product"  or  "press  release"  copy  sent  by  the  promoters  of  new  products.  If  in 
our  judgement  the  information  might  be  of  interest  to  the  personal  computing 
experimenters  and  homebrewers  who  read  BYTE,  we  print  it  in  some  form.  We 
openly  solicit  releases  and  photos  from  manufacturers  and  suppliers  to  this 
marketplace.  The  information  is  printed  more  or  less  as  a  first  in  first  out  queue, 
subject  to  occasional  priority  modifications.  While  we  would  not  knowingly  print 
untrue  or  inaccurate  data,  or  data  from  unreliable  companies,  our  capacity  to 
evaluate  the  products  and  companies  appearing  in  the  "What's  New?"  feature  is 
necessarily  limited.  We  therefore  cannot  be  responsible  for  product  quality  or  com- 
pany performance. 


Bell  43401  amplitude  and  line  balance 
specifications,  and  features  a  floating 
receiver  amplifier.  The  unit  features 
analog  and  digital  loop-back  test 
facilities,  and  a  blinking  light  which  in- 
dicates when  the  driver  is  in  the  test 
mode.  The  driver  supports  an  RS-232  in- 
terface. The  unit  is  available  in  stand- 
alone and  multiple  units.  Single  unit 
price  for  stand-alone  units  is  $175,  and 
multiple-unit  cards  are  $162.  For  more 
information,  contact  Tuck  Electronics 
Inc,  3645  Industrial  Park  Rd,  Camp  Hill 
PA  17011,  (717)  761-4354. 


Circle  664  on  inquiry  card. 


372       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


What's  New? 


PERIPHERALS 


Large-Screen  Color  Monitor 


The  AM-26,  a  26-inch  color  monitor, 
with  over  340  square  inches  of  screen 
surface,  combines  Sony's  Trinitron  color 
system  with  switchable  A/B  inputs, 
switchable  underscan,  internal  and  exter- 
nal sync,  and  separate  RGB  (red,  green, 
and  blue)  gun  switches.  Talley  light, 


separate  horizontal  and  vertical  scan 
delay  are  optional,  and  a  separate 
tuner/audio  amplifier  and  speaker  sec- 
tion may  be  added.  The  Amtron  AM-26 
is  priced  at  $2395  from  Amtron,  Aptos 
CA  95003,  (408)  688-4445. 
Circle  665  on  inquiry  card. 


Digital  Plotters  from 
Houston  Instrument 

The  DMP  family  of  plotters  comprises 
two  standard  and  four  intelligent 
models.  All  these  models  are  available 
with  plotting  sizes  of  21.5  by  28  cm  (8.5 
by  11  inches)  and  28  by  44  cm  (11  by  17 
inches).  The  DMP-2  is  a  21.5  by  28  cm 
plotter  with  an  RS-232C  and  parallel  in- 
terface. It  has  a  pen  speed  of  2.4  inches 
per  second  and  can  plot  at  100  or  200 
increments  per  inch.  The  DMP-5  has  a 
surface  area  of  28  by  44  cm  and  the  RS- 
232C  and  parallel  interface.  The  unit  is 
plug-compatible  with  the  DMP-2  and 
can  utilize  software  developed  for  the 
DMP-2.  The  DMP-3  features  a  built-in 
microprocessor  and  pen  speeds  of  3 
inches  per  second.  Use  of  Houston  In- 


strument's Digital  Micro/Plotter 
Language  alleviates  the  software  burden 
on  the  host  computer.  Self -test  and  pen 
positioning  are  accomplished  via  a  com- 
puter or  terminal  keyboard.  The  DMP-3 
comes  with  an  RS-232C  or  Centronics- 
compatible  interface.  The  DMP-6  is  a 
21.5  by  28  cm  version    of  the  DMP-3 
and  features  a  pen  speed  of  2.4  inches 
per  second.  The  DMP-4  and  the  DMP-7 
utilize  electronic  controls  to  facilitate 
positioning  of  the   X  and  Y  axes.  Self- 
diagnostics  are  activated  through  front 
panel  controls.  Prices  for  the  DMP 
Series  plotters  start  at  $1085.  For  com- 
plete information,  contact  Houston  In- 
strument, 1  Houston  Sq,  Austin  TX 
78753,  (512)  837-2820. 

Circle  666  on  inquiry  card. 


Paper-Tape  Reader 

A  paper-tape  reader/transmitter,  the 
Model  612,  is  available  from  Addmaster 
Corporation,  416  Junipero  Serra  Dr,  San 
Gabriel  CA  91776,  (213)  285-1121.  The 
612  features  the  ability  to  read  five-  to 
eight-level  tape  and  to  transmit  7  to  11 
frames  per  character  at  50  to  9600  bps 
(bits  per  second).  Other  features  include 
starting  and  stopping  on  character  at  all 
speeds;  choice  of  manual  or  automatic 
control;  90  to  260  V,  50  to  60  Hz  power 
sources;  and  even,  odd,  or  no  parity; 
with  a  choice  of  desk-top  or  rack 
mounting.  The  price  is  $656  to  $779. 
Circle  667  on  inquiry  card. 


Chatterbox  from 
Micromint 


The  Chatterbox  is  a  packaging  com- 
bination of  the  presently  available 
COMM-80  I/O  (input/output)  interface 
for  the  TRS-80  and  an  acoustic  modem. 
This  box  can  turn  even  a  4  K-byte 
TRS-80  into  a  full  time-sharing  terminal. 
The  Chatterbox  includes  a  built-in  pro- 
grammable 50  to  19  K  bps  (bits  per  se- 
cond) serial  port,  a  Centronics- 
compatible  parallel  printer  port,  a  300 
bps  acoustic  originate  modem,  and  a 
spare  TRS-BUS  expansion  connector.  It 
comes  with  a  power  supply,  connection 
cable,  manual,  and  smart  terminal  soft- 
ware. When  the  modem  is  in  use,  the 
data  conversation  is  automatically 
routed  to  the  serial  output  port  for 
printing.  The  Chatterbox  allows  a 
TRS-80  to  communicate  with  time- 
sharing systems  such  as  Micronet  and 
the  Source.  In  addition,  Chatterbox  can 
be  used  simply  to  provide  an  address 
selectable  serial  and  parallel  port.  It  is 
completely  hardware-  and  software- 
compatible  with  existing  TRS-80  pro- 
ducts, and  it  connects  either  to  the 
keyboard  connector  or  screen  printer 
port  on  the  Expansion  Interface.  It  does 
not  require  the  Expansion  Interface  for 
operation.  The  Chatterbox  is  available 
for  $259  from  The  Micromint  Inc,  917 
Midway,  Woodmere  NY  11598,  (516) 
374-6793. 
Circle  668  on  inquiry  card. 


November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc       373 


Whsft  New? 


SYSTEMS 


Systems  from  Wang 

The  Office  Information  Systems 
(OIS)  Models  115-1  and  115-2  incor- 
porate hard-disk  drives  located  within 
the  master  control  unit.  The  OIS 
systems  can  utilize  the  Wang  Office- 
BASIC  language,  telecommunications 
and  high-speed  image  printing 
capabilities,  and  Wang  MAILWAY  elec- 
tronic mail  software.  These  systems 
combine  word-processing  and  data- 
processing  capabilities  in  one  device. 
The  Model  105  supports  two  work- 
stations and  one  printer,  and  contains  a 
2.5-megabyte  hard  disk.  The  addition  of 
text  editing,  hyphenation,  and  justifica- 
tion to  the  105  provides  a  complete 
photocomposition  system.  The  105 
begins  at  $9300. 

The  115-1  and  115-2  support  more 
users,  peripherals,  and  larger  hard-disk 
storage  units.  The  115-1  begins  at 
$13,400,  and  the  115-2  starts  at  $15,400. 
For  complete  information,  contact  Wang 
Laboratories  Inc,  1  Industrial  Ave, 
Lowell  MA  01851,  (617)  459-5000. 

Circle  669  on  inquiry  card. 


Casio  Markets  Its  First 
Computer 

The  FX-9000P  computer,  priced  under 
$900,  has  been  introduced  by  Casio  Inc, 
15  Gardner  Rd,  Fairfield  NJ  07006,  (201) 
575-7400.  It  features  instantaneous 
operation  of  the  user  system  when  the 
power  is  switched  on.  A  graphic-display 
system  makes  it  possible  to  display 
graphs,  diagrams,  and  tables.  The  FX- 
9000P  has  all  functions  necessary  to  per- 
form scientific  and  technical  calculations 
and  business  analyses.  The  machine  ac- 
cepts memory  packages  to  expand 
memory  capacity. 

Circle  670  on  inquiry  card. 


British  S-100-Based 
Microcomputer 

The  Tuscan  S-100  is  based  on  the 
IEEE  (Institue  of  Electrical  and  Elec- 
tronics Engineers)  standard  S-100  bus. 
This  single-board  computer  uses  a  Z80 
microprocessor,  can  store  64  K  bytes  of 
programmable  memory,  is  CP/M  com- 
patible, and  includes  a  printer  interface. 
Expansion  capabilities  include   high- 
resolution  graphics  and  speech  synthesis 
cards.  Transam  offers  application  soft- 
ware packages  that  include  BASIC  and 
Pascal.  Tuscan  S-100  prices  start  at  £195 
for  kits.  For  details,  write  Transam,  12 
Chapel  St,  London  NW1  5DH,  England. 
Circle  671  on  inquiry  card. 


Canon  Introduces  Its  Desk-Top  Computer 


The  TX  Series  microcomputers  from 
Canon  feature  a  6809  microprocessor, 
extended  BASIC  and  assembler  lan- 
guage, a  twenty-column  alphanumeric 
video  display,  and  a  built-in  twenty-six- 
column  triple-copy  impact  printer.  The 
models  have  15  K  bytes  of  user  memory 
which  can  be  expanded  to  31  K  bytes. 
Each  model  has  an  RS-232  interface  port 
and  a  modem  port.  The  TX-25  is  a  pro- 
grammable machine  with  a  full 


typewriter  keyboard  and  a  built-in 
Canon  floppy -disk  drive.  The  TX-10  and 
TX-15  are  nonprogrammable.  The  TX-15 
incorporates  a  typewriter  keyboard, 
while  the  TX-10  has  a  ten-key  pad  with 
twenty-six  labeled  keys.  The  price  for 
the  series  is  $1295  from  Canon  Systems 
Division,  10  Nevada  Dr,  Lake  Success, 
Long  Island  NY  11042,  (516)  488-6700. 

Circle  672  on  inquiry  card. 


374       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Whsft  New? 


GRAPHICS 


Colormaster  Video  and 
Graphics  Board 

The  Colormaster  allows  users  to  pro- 
gram virtually  any  display  format  (eg: 
64  by  32,  128  by  16,  and  80  by  25).  The 
board  is  designed  for  S-100  bus  systems. 
Characters  may  be  reversed,  dimmed, 
flashing,  underlined,  and  any  of  eight 
colors.  Bit-mapped  graphics  or  an  op- 
tional PROM  (programmable  read-only 
memory)  graphics  set  may  also  be  dis- 
played. Another  option  allows  extension 
of  the  character  set  to  include  128  user- 
defined  characters.  The  Colormaster  kit 
is  $399;  assembled  and  tested,  it  is  $499; 
and  the  bare  board  is  $79.  For  more  in- 
formation, contact  MicroDaSys,  POB 
36051,  Los  Angeles  CA  90036,  (213) 
731-0876. 
Circle  673  on  inquiry  card. 


Summagraphics  Unveils 
Supergrid  Digitizer 


The  microprocessor-based  Supergrid 
utilizes  a  new  technology — the  Direct 
Magnetostrictive  principle.  This  unit 
features  high  accuracy  (±.005  inch  or 
0.125  mm)  and  high-resolution  (.001 
inch  or  0.025  mm)  and  eliminates  the 
need  for  a  biasing  magnet.  Supergrid  is 
translucent   with  a  flat   surface; 
moreover,  it  supports  a  stylus  and  a  cur- 
sor, and  it  permits  simultaneous  use  of 
two  digitizer  tablets  with  the  same  driv- 
ing electronics.  The  Supergrid  comes  in 
11  by  11  and  20  by  20  inch  forms,  with 
larger  versions  to  follow.  RS-232C, 
IEEE,  8-bit  parallel,  and  16-bit  parallel 
interfaces  are  supported.  The  technology 
behind  the  device  is  based  on  a  principle 
that  replaces  a  matrix  of  magnetostric- 
tive wires  with  a  matrix  of  plain  copper 
wires  and  only  one  magnetostrictive 
wire  per  axis.  For  more  information, 
contact  Summagraphics  Corporation,  35 
Brentwood  Ave,  Box  781,  Fairfield  CT 
06430,  (203)  384-1344. 
Circle  674  on  inquiry  card. 


Hard-Copy  Unit  for  Video 
Images 

The  Tektronix  4634  Imaging  Hard 
Copy  Unit  produces  high-quality  con- 
tinuous tone  copies  from  raster-scan 
video  sources  in  seconds.  Designed  to 
provide  photographic  quality  images, 
the  device  is  aimed  at  digital  image  pro- 
cessing, pattern  recognition,  remote 
sensing,  video-disk,  and  high-resolution 
display  environments.  The  4634  records 
on  dry  silver  paper  using  a  fiber-optic 
video  display.  The  process  requires  no 
toners  or  developers.  The  copies  have  a 
twelve-tone  gray-scale  range.  The 
approximate  cost  per  copy  is  $0.20.  It 
prints  6  by  8  inch  images  on  8Vi  by  11 
inch  paper.  It  is  usually  requires  a  single 
cable  connection  and  can  be  interfaced 
to  most  raster-scan  video  sources, 
whether  analog  or  digital.  An  automatic 
gain-control  circuit  tracks  the  input 


signal.  Paper  is  available  in  8Vz  inch  by 
500  foot  rolls.  Paper  length  can  be  ad- 
justed from  7  to  11  inches.  For  more  in- 
formation, contact  Marketing  Com- 
munications Department,  M  S  63-635, 
Tektronix  Inc,  POB  500,  Beaverton  OR 
97077,  (503)  682-3411. 
Circle  675  on  inquiry  card. 


Digitizer  for  the  Apple  II 

The  DS-65  Digisector  is  a  random 
access  video  digitizer  for  the  Apple  II.  It 
converts  a  television-camera's  output 
into  digital  information  that  the  Apple 
can  process.  The  Digisector  features 
high-resolution  reproduction,  sixty-four 
levels  of  gray  scale,  and  accepts  inter- 
laced or  industrial  video  input.  The  unit 
has  on-board  software  featuring  full 
screen  scans  directly  to  the  Apple 
screen,  random  access  digitizing  by 
BASIC  programs,  line-scan  digitizing  for 


reading  charts  or  tracking  objects,  and 
utility  functions  for  clearing  and  copying 
the  screen.  BASIC  programs  include  a 
burglar  alarm  and  a  graph  reader.  Com- 
plete source  listings  are  included  in  the 
package.  The  DS-65  is  used  for  digi- 
tizing pictures;  security  systems; 
moving-target  indicators;  computer  por- 
traits; reading  paper  tape,  strip  charts, 
bar  codes,  and  more.  The  price  is  $349 
from  The  Micro  Works,  POB  1110,  Del 
Mar  CA  92014,  (714)  942-2400. 
Circle  676  on  inquiry  card. 


November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc       375 


What's  New? 


SOFTWARE 


A  Mail-List  and  Data-Base 
System 

SelectraSort  is  a  mail-list,  data-base 
management  system.  It  can  pull  records 
from  mail-list  files  on  the  basis  of  over 
sixty  selection  criteria.  The  mail-list-file 
maintenance  module  enters  new  records 
to  the  mail  list  and  changes  or  deletes 
existing  entries.  The  selection  module 
pulls  records  form  the  files.  The  print 
module  prints  selected  and  master  mail 
lists  as  well  as  mail  labels.  Sorts  can  be 
done  by  ZIP  code,  country,  state,  last 
activity  date,  amount  purchased  or  sold 
last  year  and  this  year.  SelectraSort  is 
$195,  which  includes  CBASIC  source 
code.  It  is  available  on  8-inch  soft- 
sectored  and  5-inch  soft-  and  hard- 
sectored  floppy  disks.  Contact  Software 
Hows,  a  division  of  MicroDaSys,  POB 
36275,  Los  Angeles  CA  90036,  (213) 
731-0877. 
Circle  677  on  inquiry  card. 


General  Ledger  for  the 
Atari 

MicroLedger,  the  Compumax  general 
ledger  program,  has  been  converted  to 
run  on  the  Atari  800.  The  Atari  Micro- 
Ledger  performs  trial  balances  and  pro- 
duces profit-and-loss  statements  and 
balance  sheets.  It  features  updating  op- 
tions, allowing  the  user  to  review  and 
update  records  in  the  journal  or  chart  of 
accounts;  a  running  balance  column  in 
the  journal  listing;  and  error  traps.  The 
MicroLedger  package  retails  for  $140, 
which  includes  the  program,  sample 
data,  and  a  manual.  BASIC  source  code 
is  also  included.  Minimum  hardware  re- 
quirements are  the  Atari  800  with  24  K 
bytes  of  memory  and  a  floppy-disk 
drive;  a  printer  is  offered  as  an  option. 
Contact  Compumax  Inc,  POB  1139, 
Palo  Alto  CA  94301,  (415)  325-4503. 

Circle  678  on  inquiry  card. 


Data  Manager  for  the 
Apple 

Information  Master  is  a  data  manager 
for  use  with  the  Apple  and  includes  the 
ability  to  do  calculations,  totals,  sub- 
totals, and  more.  The  program  lets  the 
user  define,  enter,  edit,  sort,  and 
retrieve  data.  Printed  report  formats 
using  the  report-generation  features  can 
be  defined.  Other  features  include  screen 
formatting,  error  trapping,  and  the  abili- 
ty to  add,  multiply,  divide,  and  do  ex- 
ponentiations. A  program  is  included 
that  transfers  files  from  the  Management 
System  for  use  with  the  Information 
Master.  For  further  details  on  the  Infor- 
mation Master  program,  contact  High 
Technology  Inc,  POB  14665,  8001  N 
Classen  Blvd,  Oklahoma  City  OK 
73113,  (405)  840-9900. 


Circle  679  on  inquiry  card. 


Vector  Releases  COBOL 
with  Program  Generator 

Vector  Graphic  Inc   has  released  a 
version  of  its  ANSI-standard  CIS 
COBOL,  featuring  program  generation 
capability.  Version  4.2  of  CIS  COBOL 
implements  the  eight  modules  necessary 
to  meet  the  ANSI  Level  1  standard  at 
the  low-intermediate  level.  The 
FORMS-2  utility  generates  data-entry 
screens   and  can  create  error-free  data 
input  programs  without  the  programmer 
writing  a  line  of  code.  It  is  available 
from  Vector  Graphic  Inc,  31364  Via 
Colinas,  Westlake  Village  CA  91361, 
(213)  991-2302. 
Circle  680  on  inquiry  card. 


Job-Costing  Package  Under 
CP/M 

This  job-costing  package  consists  of  a 
reporting  facility,  a  job-costing  accounts 
payable,  and  a  job-costing  payroll. 
These  programs  are  designed  to  run  on  a 
Z80  or  8080  processor  using  the  CP/M 
operating  system.  Other  CP/M-like 
systems  are  also  supported.  The  soft- 
ware will  run  on  hard  or  floppy  disks. 
The  business  applications  are  integrated, 
yet  each  will  run  singly.  The  price  is 
$700  for  a  system  from  Arkansas 
Systems  Inc,  Suite  206,  8901  Kanis  Rd, 
Little  Rock  AR  72205,  (501)  227-8471. 

Circle  681  on  inquiry  card. 


Business  Application  for 
the  HP-85 

Pro-Flow  can  figure  sales  analysis, 
forecast  performance  for  products, 
evaluate  material  costs,  and  perform 
cash-flow  analysis  for  a  year's  opera- 
tion. By  mixing  initial  raw  data  values 
with  formulas,  users  can  make  projec- 
tions about  future  operations.  Pro-Flow 
is  designed  to  run  on  the  HP-85  micro- 
computer. It  is  available  at  a  suggested 
retail  of  $150  from  Scelbi  Publications, 
20  Hurlbut  St,  Elmwood  CT  06110, 
(203)  522-5515. 


Circle  682  on  inquiry  card. 


Disk-O-Tape 

Disk-O-Tape  is  a  utility  program  for 
the  Apple  II  and  Apple  II  Plus  com- 
puters. It  enables  users  to  transfer  the 
data  from  a  floppy  disk  to  cassette  tape 
and  back  again.  The  program  features 
sector-by-sector  copy  of  a  DOS  3.2  disk 
to  tape,  error  detection,  and  a  verifica- 
tion pass  for  reliability.  Each  tape  pro- 
duced by  the  program  contains  a  boot- 
strap for  easy  loading  on  disk.  The  pro- 
gram allows  user-assigned  naming  of 
tapes.  Disk-O-Tape  requires  at  least 
32  K  bytes  of  programmable  memory. 
The  program  comes  on  a  floppy  disk 
with  Testape,  a  program  to  aid  in  ad- 
justing the  cassette  recorder  for  optimum 
performance.  Disk-O-Tape  costs  $12 
from  Dann  McCreary,  POB  16435-B, 
San  Diego  CA  92116. 
Circle  683  on  inquiry  card. 


Lifeboat  Supports  the 
Durango  F-85 

Lifeboat  Associates  has  made 
available  its  8080  software  line  format- 
ted for  the  Durango  F-85  computer.  This 
software,  which  includes  languages  such 
as  BASIC,  COBOL,  and  Pascal;  word- 
processing  systems,  such  as  Wordstar; 
communication  software,  such  as 
BSTAM;  and  complete  accounting 
packages,  is  available  by  the  implemen- 
tation of  CP/M.  The  first  version  of 
CP/M  supports  the  F-85  with  up  to  four 
floppy-disk  drives.  This  is  priced  at 
$170.  Later  versions  will  support  the 
12-megabyte  and  25-megabyte  hard-disk 
systems.  Contact  Lifeboat  Associates, 
1651  Third  Ave,  New  York  NY  10028, 
(212)  860-0300. 

Circle  684  on  inquiry  card. 


RECLAIM  "Hides"  Bad 
Sectors  and  Tracks  from 
CP/M 

Lifeboat  Associates,  1651  Third  Ave, 
New  York  NY  10028,  (212)  860-0300, 
has  announced  a  CP/M  2.0  utility  pro- 
gram that  tests  floppy-disk  and  hard- 
disk  systems  for  error-prone  parts  of  the 
disk  and  allocates  those  parts  to  files 
that  are  invisible  to  the  user.  RECLAIM 
maps  the  bad  spots  out  of  the  file  direc- 
tory so  that  they  cannot  be  used  again. 
It  safely  tests  the  disk  with  or  without 
data  files.  At  the  completion  of  the  pro- 
gram, it  announces  the  number  of 
blocks  hidden  from  the  file  system. 
RECLAIM  is  available  on  all  CP/M 
media  formats  supported  by  Lifeboat 
Associates.  The  cost  is  $80. 
Circle  685  on  inquiry  card. 


376       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


What's  New? 


SOFTWARE 


Digital  Synthesizer  for  the 
Apple 

Mountain  Computer  Inc   has 
developed  the  MusicSystem  for  the 
Apple  II.  This  sixteen-voice  digital  syn- 
thesizer permits  the  creation  of  the 
sounds  of  real  musical  instruments  uti- 
lizing the  principle  of  additive  synthesis. 
The  generation  of  sounds  is  accom- 
plished through  programmable  wave- 
forms, envelopes,  and  amplitudes  for 
each  musical  voice.  Software  is  included 
for  editing  and  playing  of  compositions. 
The  editor  program  permits  graphical  in- 
put of  sheet  music  utilizing  standard 
music  notation.  The  player  program  per- 
mits polyphonic  performance  of  musical 
compositions.  Stereo  output  is  to  user's 
stereo  amplifier  and  speakers   or  directly 
off  card  with  stereo  headphones.  For  in- 
formation, write  or  call  Mountain  Com- 
puter Inc,  300  Harvey  W  Blvd,  Santa 
Cruz  CA  95060,  (408)  429-8600. 

Circle  686  on  inquiry  card. 


New  Business  Software  for 
the  TRS-80 

American  Business  Systems  (ABS)  has 
announced  that  its  line  of  financial- 
and  business-applications  software 
packages  are  now  available  to  users  of 
Radio  Shack  TRS-S0  computers.  These 
seven  new  ABS  packages  offer  the  same 
full-scale  features  and  capabilities  as  the 
company's  software  for  larger  mini- 
computers and  microcomputers. 

The  packages  include  a  complete 
series  of  financial  systems,  ranging  from 
Accounts  Payable  and  Receivable 
through  Payroll,  Order  Entry  and  Inven- 


tory Control  to  a  fully  automated 
General  Ledger  System.  The  application 
systems  currently  available  include 
Financial  Modeling  and  Real-Estate  Sales 
Management.  Additional  packages  soon 
to  be  released  will  offer  a  Client 
Accounting  System  and  a  Cor- 
respondence Management  Package, 
which  includes  a  letter  writter,  word 
processor  and  mailing-label  generator. 

Information  is  available  from 
American  Business  Systems  Inc,  439 
Littleton  Rd,  Westford  MA  01886,  (617) 
486-3509. 

Circle  687  on  inquiry  card. 


TRS-80  CP/M  2.0  with  12 
Megabytes 

Lifeboat  Associates,  1651  Third  Ave, 
NewYork  NY  10028,  (212)  860-0300,  has 
announced  the  release  of  CP/M  version 
2.0  for  the  TRS-80  Model  II.  The  system 
features  extended  density  format  for 
each  of  up  to  four  floppy-disk  drives. 
Nearly  2.5  megabytes  of  storage  is  pos- 
sible with  floppy-disk  drives  alone.  The 
Corvus  10  megabyte  Winchester  hard 
disk  is  suggested  as  a  storage  system, 
allowing  CP/M  to  access  12  megabytes 
of  memory.  A  menu-driven  configura- 
tion program  allows  total  control  of  the 
parallel  printer  port  and  both  serial 
ports  of  the  TRS-80. 

The  printer  port  software  can  be  set 
to  control  a  "dumb"  printer  that  has  no 
page  control,  or  the  software  page  con- 
trol can  be  disabled  for  printing  checks 
or  mailing  labels.  The  system  includes 


functions  to  set  data  rates  of  from  134.5 
to  9600  bps  (bits  per  second)  for  the 
serial  ports.  An  ADM-3A  emulation 
program  is  included  which  allows  the 
TRS-80  to  be  used  as  a  terminal  through 
the  serial  ports.  The  system  is  offered 
with  Corvus  hard-disk  capability  for 
$250  and  floppy-disk  capability  for 
$170.  Circle  688  on  inquiry  card. 


Software  for  the  Apple  II 

Softpoint,  Dept  C,  103  Clinton  Ave, 
Terryville  NY  11776,  has  announced 
cassette  programs  for  the  Apple  II  in- 
cluding Function  Plot,  Speed  Reading, 
Road  Race,  and  more.  The  programs 
utilize  the  Apple's  high-resolution 
graphics  capabilities.  The  prices  range 
from  $5.95  to  $9.95. 

Circle  689  on  inquiry  card. 


Reformat  for  the  TRS-80 

Reformat  is  a  programming  aid  to  be 
used  prior  to  compiling  with  the 
Microsoft  BASIC  compiler.  The  BASIC 
compiler  allows  the  use  of  long  variable 
names  which  can  contain  BASIC  re- 
served words,  making  the  format  of  a 
BASIC  source  file  and  the  use  of  spaces 
critical.  BASIC  program  files  that  are 
written  as  multistatement  compressed 
lines  will  be  rejected  by  the  compiler  in 
almost  all  cases.  Bluebird's  has 
developed  this  machine-language  pro- 
gram which  will  reformat  any  TRS-80 
BASIC  source  file  into  a  format  accept- 
able to  the  compiler.  Reformat  is 
available  for  $24.95  from  Bluebird's 
Company  2267  23rd  St,  Wyandotte  MI 
48192,  (313)  285-4455. 
Circle  690  on  inquiry  card. 


Data-Base  Program  for 
Z80  Systems 

Condor  Computer  Corporation,  3989 
Research  Park  Dr,  Ann  Arbor  MI 
48104,  (313)  769-3988,  has  announced 
Target/80  DBMS,  a  data-base  system 
for  Z80  microcomputers.  Target/80  is 
designed  for  transaction  processing  ap- 
plications. This  version  uses  nineteen 
commands,  including  relational  opera- 
tions for  selecting,  sorting,  appending, 
or  posting  data.  Target/80  is  compatible 
with  most  Z80  systems  with  at  least 
48  K  bytes  of  programmable  memory 
running  under  CP/M.  The  price  is  $695. 

Circle  691  on  inquiry  card. 


November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc       377 


Whsft  New? 


MISCELLANEOUS 


Computer  in  a  Case 


The  Quasar  Micro-Information 
System  consists  of  a  hand-held  com- 
puter, video  display,  printer,  modem, 
cassette  deck,  expandable  programmable 
memory  unit,  I/O  (input/output)  driver 
— and  it  all  fits  in  a  briefcase.  The  hand- 
held computer  fits  in  the  palm  of  a 
hand,  weighs  less  than  a  pound  and  con- 


trols the  peripheral  devices.  A  library  of 
memory  capsules  in  ROM  (read-only 
memory)  for  use  in  the  computer  include 
fourteen  languages,  calorie  counter, 
bar/wine  guide,  phonetic  pronouncia- 
tion,  and  games.  The  system  is  available 
from  Quasar  Company,  Franklin  Park 
IL  60131.  Circle  692  on  inquiry  card. 


Nine-Voice  Synthesizer 

Vista  Media  Products  has  announced 
the  Music  Machine  Nine.  Using  LSI 
(large-scale  integration)  technology,  the 
device  can  produce  nine  voices  on  the 
Apple  II  computer.  The  board  uses  three 
AY3-8910  integrated  circuits  and  re- 
quires one  expansion  slot.  It  can  use 
software  now  available  to  produce  and 
play  back  nine-voice  music  compatible 


with  other  music  boards.  It  will  respond 
to  commands  for  pitch,  amplitude,  dura- 
tion, attack,  delay,  and  more.  Two 
high-impedance,  low-level  outputs  are 
provided  with  six  voices  assigned  to 
each  channel.  It  is  available  through  Ad- 
vanced Computer  Products,  1310 
E  Edinger,  Santa  Ana  CA  92705,  (714) 
558-8813. 
Circle  693  on  inquiry  card. 


Logic  Timing  Recorder 
from  A  P  Products 


A  P  Products,  1359  W  Jackson  St, 
Painesville  OH  44077,  (800)  321-9668,  in 
Ohio  (216)  354-2101— collect,  has  in- 
troduced the  Logic  Timing  Recorder,  a 
device  for  charting  logic  timing.  The 
unit  is  an  ABS  plastic  board  with  320 
slides  arranged  in  eight  horizontal  rows. 
The  slides  represent  the  two  logic  levels 
of  a  circuit.  After  the  slides  are  manual- 
ly moved  into  position  to  represent  the 
logic  state  in  a  circuit,  the  board  is 
checked  for  proper  design,  then  it  can  be 
placed  on  a  copying  machine  to  make  a 
permanent  record  for  your  files.  The 
recorder  may  be  used  over  and  over 
again  to  chart  the  logic  timing  of  all  cir- 
cuits. The  Logic  Timing  Recorder,  P/N 
923758,  has  a  suggested  price  of  $44.95. 
Circle  694  on  inquiry  card. 


A/D  Converter  for  S-100 
Systems 

The  AIM-12  is  a  16-  or  32-channel 
12-bit  A/D  (analog-to-digital)  converter 
designed  for  laboratory  and  industrial 
applications.  The  card  plugs  directly 
into  the  standard  IEEE  S-100  bus. 
Features  include  an  on-board  resistor 
programmable  instrumentation  amplifier 
and  operation  of  up  to  25  ms  with  12 
bits  of  accuracy.  The  AIM-12  is  I/O  (in- 
put/output) mapped  and  can  be  used 
with  either  BASIC  or  assembly-language 
instructions.  The  module  is  designed  for 
direct  conversion  of  voltages  from 
thermocouples,  level  sensors,  pressure 
transducers,  pH  electrodes  and  other 
low-level  signal  sources.  The  device  pro- 
vides thirty-two  single-ended  or  sixteen 
fully  differential  inputs;  input  impedance 
exceeds  one  billion  ohms.  It  is  fully 
compatible  with  North  Star,  Cromemco, 
and  most  S-100  system.  Multiple  boards 
can  be  employed,  and  BASIC  and 
assembly-language  programs  are  sup- 
plied. The  price  of  the  AIM-12  is  from 
$575,  depending  on  options,  from  Dual 
Systems  Control  Corporation,  1825 
Eastshore  Hwy,  Berkeley  CA  94710, 
(415)  549-3854.        Circle  695  on  inquiry  card. 


378        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


Speed  up  your  PET  programming  with  The  BASIC 
Programmer's  Toolkit™  now  only  $39.95. 

Don't  waste  valuable  programming  time  if  there's  an 
easier  way  to  go.  Here  it  is:  The  BASIC  Programmer's 
Toolkit,  created  by  Palo  Alto  ICs, 
a  division  of  Nestar.  The  Toolkit  is  a 
set  of  super  programming  aids  de- 
signed to  enhance  the  writing, de- 
bugging and  enhancing  of  BASIC 
programs  for  your  PET. 

The  BASIC  Program- 
mer's Toolkit  has  two 
kilobytes  of  ROM  firm- 
ware on  a  single  chip. 
This  extra  ROM  store  lets  you  avoid 
loading  tapes  or  giving  up  valuable 
RAM  storage.  It  plugs  into  a  socket 
inside  your  PET  system,  or  is  mount 
ed  on  a  circuit  board  attached  on 
the  side  of  your  PET,  depending  on 
which  model  you  own. 

There  are  basically  two  versions  of 
PET.  To  determine  which  Toolkit  you 
need,  just  turn  on  your  PET.  If  you 
see***COMMODORE  BASIC*** 
your  PET  uses  the  TK-80P  Toolkit. 
If  you  see  ###COMMODORE 
BASIC###,  your  PET  uses  the 
TK-160  Toolkit.  Other  versions  of 
the  BASIC  Programmer's  Toolkit 
are  available  for  PET  systems 
that  have  been  upgraded 
with  additional  memory. 


wouia  ai: 

Increase 

your  PETs  IQ 

f0r«CQO95 


AUTO  FIND 
DELETE  STEP 
RENUMBER  OFF 
APPEND  HELP 
DUMP      TRACE 


How  Toolkit  makes  your  programming  easier: 

FIND  locates  and  displays  the  BASIC  program  lines 
that  contain  a  specified  string,  variable  or  keyword. 
If  you  were  to  type  FIND  A$,  100-500,  your  PET's  screen 
would  display  all  lines  between  line  numbers 
100  and  500  that  contain  A$. 

RENUMBER  renumbers theentire 
program  currently  in  your  PET. 

You  can  instantly  change 
all  line  numbers  and  all 
references  to  those 
numbers.  For  instance, 
to  start  the  line  numbers 
with  500  instead  of  100, 
just  use  RENUMBER  500. 

HELP  is  used  when  your  program 
stops  due  to  an  error.  Type  HELP, 
and  the  line  on  which  the  error 
occurs  will  be  shown.  The  erroneous 
portion  of  the  line  will  be  indicated 
in  reverse  video  on  the  screen. 
These  simple  commands,  and  the  other 
seven  listed  on  the  screen,  take 
the  drudgery  out  of  program 
development  work.  And  for  a  very 
low  cost.  The  BASIC  Program- 
mer's Toolkit  costs  as  little  as 
$39.95,  or  at  most,  $59.95. 

Get  the  BASIC  Programmer's 
Toolkit  and  find  out  how  quick 
and  easy  program  development 
can  be.  See  your  local  PET 
dealer  or  send  this  coupon  in 
today. 


fjs.  commodore 


PET 


persona! 
—  mput.es 


PAW  MI©  ICs 

A  Division  of  Nestar  Systems,  Incorporated 


PET™  is  a  trademark  of 
Commodore  Business 
Machines,  Inc. The  BASIC 
Programmer's  Toolkit™ 
is  a  trademark  of  Palo 
Alto  ICs,  a  division  of 
Nestar  Systems,  Inc. 


The  Toolkit  is  fully  assembled. 
It  is  not  a  kit  and  requires  no 
special  tools  to  install. 


I  want  to  save 

programming 

time  and  money. 

Send  me  The  BASIC  Programmer's  Toolkit  that  will  give 

my  PET  10  new  and  useful  commands. 

Fill  in  the  appropriate  line  below: 

Qty TK-160Toolkit(s)  @  $39.95  each 

Qty TK-80P  ToolkitCs]  @  $59.95each 


Want  to  charge  it?  Call  (415]  493-TOOL,  or  fill  out  the 
form  below. 

Enclosed  is  a  D  money  order        □  check 

(If  charging]:  D  Bill  VISA        □  Bill  Master  Card. 


Please  include  the  amount  of  the  Toolkit,  plus  $2.50  for 
shipping  and  handling.  Please  allow  4-6  weeks  for  delivery. 
SATISFACTION  GUARANTEED,  OR  SEND  IT  BACK 
WITHIN  10  DAYS  OF  RECEIPT  AND  PALO  ALTO  ICs 
WILL  REFUND  YOUR  MONEY. 

SEND  TO: 

Name 


Address- 
City 


-State- 


_Zip_ 


Charge  Card- 


_Exp.  Date- 


Phone 

MAIL  TO: 


Master  Card  Interbank  Number- 


Signature- 


Palo  Alto  ICs 

A  Division  of  Nestar  Systems,  Inc 

430  Sherman  Avenue 

Palo  Alto,  CA  94306 

(415]  493-TOOL 


Dealer  inquiries  invited. 


Circle  281  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980        379 


OSFers! 


OSI  DIDN'T  FILL  YOU  IN... 

WE  WILL...        With  the 
Complete, 
New  OS-65D 
V3.2 

Disassembly 
Manual. 

•  60  pages  of  listings 

•  Includes  full  cross-reference 
listing 

Order  today.  Send  check  for 
$24.95  to  Software  Consultants, 
7053  Rose  Trail,  Memphis,  Tenn. 
38134.  901-377-3503.  Postpaid. 
Allow  2-3  weeks. 


" 's  "  ■    ■    m    I *""""'"' 

■  -     ■                  m 

mi 

H .__ s- 

«    1  f     i    tH  i      Mlii  —  «—  - 

8K  BYTE  STATIC  RAM  MODULE  FOR  THE  6800;  COMPATIBLE 

WITH  THE  MOTOROLA  EXORcisef  BUS  AND  0  2  KIT. 

TWO  SEPARATE  4k  ADDRESSES;  EACH  MAY  BE  USED  AS  RAM 

OR  TREATED  AS  ROM, 

SWITCHES  SET  ADDRESSES  AND  CONTROL  RAMiROM  OPTION 

ALL  IC's  ARE  SOCKETED;  EACH  IC  HAS  A  BYPASS  CAPACITOR 

ACCESS  TIME:  450  NSEC 

DIMENSIONS:  HEIGHT  8  425IN.  WIDTH  9.750  IN    THICKNESS 

.062  IN. 

SIGNALS:  R:W,  VMA  OR  VUA  (JUMPER,,  (12 

STATIC  RAM:  LOW  POWER  2102AN  4L  OR  EQUIVALENT. 

THE  AII688K  COMES  ASSEMBLED  AND  TESTED. 

PRICE  J 175 

APPLIED  LOGIC,  INC 

P.O.  BOX  328 

JAMAICA,  MEW  YORK  11415 

12121459-4064 

'EXOHciser  is  a  trademark  of  Motorola.  Inc. 

Now  you  can  afford  quality! 


Scotch 

DISKETTES 


SAVE  30%  TO  45%! 

Possibly  the  LOWEST  prices  you'll  find 
on  quality  SCOTCH  Brand  Diskettes  in 
sizes  to  fit  all  Mini/Micro  Computers. 
One  box  or  by  the  case,  all  orders  are 
processed  quickly  and  shipped  per 
your  instructions. 

Call  COLLECT  to  Order! 

(805)484-8146 

QUALITY  DATA  SUPPLY 

P.O.  Box  236,  Camarillo,  CA 93010 


Authorized  Distributor 
Information  Processing  Products 


3M 


Circle  282  on  Inquiry  card. 


Circle  283  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  284  on  inquiry  card. 


S-100  A/D 


•  S-1 00  Bus  Compatible  A/D 
Converter 

•  12  Bit  Accuracy 

•  16  Channel  Analog  Input 

•  Programmable  Gain  Amplifier 
with  Sample-and-Hold 

•  High  Quality  Commercial/ 
Industrial  Construction 

2  and  4  Channel,  12  Bit  D/A 
Boards  also  available. 

■— gggjji     CALIFORNIA    DATA 
CORPORATION 


CDC 


34  75  Old  Conejo  Road,  Suite  CI  0 
Newbury  Park,  California  91320 
(805)498-3651 


80X24  VIDE0TERM™ 

7X9  MATRIX  DISPLAY  FOR 

APPLE  II® 


LOWER  CASE  W  DESCENDERS  i 


80  columns  by  24  lines  with  easy  to  read  7x9  dot  matrix, 
upper  and  lower  case  with  descenders  using  shift  lock 
feature  •  1 K  firmware  incorporates  PASCAL  and  BASIC 
protocalls  so  user  is  not  required  to  enter  machine 
language  programs  or  change  PASCALS.  Misc.  info,  or 
Gotoxy  files  •  Compatible  with  all  APPLE  II  peripherals 
so  user  won't  need  new  software  patches  for  future 
software  products  ■  Crystal  controlled  dot  clock  for 
excellent  character  stability  •  VIDEOTERM  is  the  same 
size  as  the  Apple  language  card  and  power  consump- 
tion is  held  to  a  minimum  through  the  use  of  CMOS  and 
lower  power  devices  •  Character  set  can  be  user  de- 
finable up  to  a  maximum  of  128  symbols  of  8x16  dot 
matrix  font  •  Display  control  character  mode  and  four 
standard  display  formats  controlled  by  escape  sequen- 
ces •  Built  in  light  pen  capability  •  Inverse  display 
mode  •  50/60  HZ  operation  •  Sockets  on  all  IC's. 


PRICE;Without  graphic  EPROM  S34S 
OPTIONS:  Graphics  EPROM  line  dwg. $25 

VIDEO  SWITCH  PLATE,  Inserts 

In  case  slot  to  choose  between 

APPLEIP    andVIDEOTERMI12  mm,   ■"■■- 

MANUAL:  $15  IH   eaeaaai 

VIOEX  3060  N.W   Thistle  PI.  Corvallis  OR  97330  Phone (503) 758-0521 


APPLE  ][™ 

A/D  INTERFACE  BOARD 

•  8  CHANNELS 

•  8  BITS 

•  65  /JS  CONVERSION 

•  ON  BOARD  REFERENCE 

$9950   i   $2.50  SHIPPING 
(S5.00  SHIPPING  FOREIGN) 


TRENDCOM  100™ 

GRAPHICS  UPGRADE  KIT 

•  TGU1   -  FOR  PRINTERS 

WITH  SELF-TEST  JUMPER 

•  TGU2  -  FOR  PRINTERS 

WITH  SELF-TEST  SWITCH 

•  APPLE  II  HIRES  DUMP 

SOFTWARE 

$59.95  ♦  $2.50  SHIPPING 
(S500  SHIPPING  FOREIGN) 


ISECJ) 


I  STREET  ELECTRONICS 
CORPORATION 

8900  SW  BURNHAM,  «F9 

TIGARD    OR  97223         (503)  620-2713 


Circle  285  on  Inquiry  card. 


Circle  286  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  287  on  Inquiry  card. 


HARD  DISC  STORAGE 
FOR  THE  S100  BUS 


PI1QQ  HDD   HAND   OIBC   CdNTHOLLIR 

B33  33MB   DISC  BUBBVBTBM 


BIO  lOMB  OIBC  auaBYBTBM 

*  CIIOS  tor  ■■»■«  It 

PtIOO  UBBPIB  MANUAL  tlO 

■  33  UBBRB   MANUAL  BjIB 

■  lO  UBBPIB  MANUAL  SIB 


•  1DCBIOB 


ADAPTIVE  DATA   &   ENERGY   SYSTEM 

262'   Pomona  Boulevard 

Pomona.  CA   9  I  766 

Phone   (T14)  523-9653 


OEiLf*  IftOUIIIItS  WCLCOUfO 


attention  fgpppHa*  owners 

DOUBLE  THE  CAPACITY  OF  YOUR  DISK 

THIS  KIT  ALLOWS  YOU  TO  WRITE  AND 

READ  ON  BOTH  SIDES  OF  YOUR  APPLE 

FLOPPY  DISK 

DOES  NOT  AFFECT  DISK  DRIVE 
RELIABILITY 

EASILY  INSTALLED   IN   IS  MINUTES 
DOUBLE  FLOPPY  DISK  CAPACITY  FROM 
116K  to  232K  BYTES 

SPECIAL  INTRODUCTORY  OFFER 

ONLY  $9.9S  plus  $1.00  postage 


ciut@metric/L 

8999  KINGS  HILL  DR. 
SANDY,  UT.  84070 


TIME! 


FOR        YOUR 
S-100     COMPUTER  I 

Th«    COMPUTlMER"  by    rml    fSaturaS 

•  4  Indapandant    Interval   tlmara  and 
eatsndar  clocka 


a    all  caacadabla   and   synchronous 


•  0-1/2    million  yaar   renga  with 
1.0  mteroaacond-10  aacond    raacMton 


a   vactorad    Intarrupta 

a  complataty  aoftwara    controltad 


a   asaamblad.  tastad,   and  daflvarad   with 
sampla  aoftwara  and   instruction  manual, 
$238 

IDEAL   FOR   SCIENTIFIC,  ENGINEERING, 
MEDICAL   AND   HOBBY   APPLICATIONS! 

rml 
san  carlos, CA 


Circle  286  on  Inquiry  card. 


Circle  290  on  Inquiry  card. 


/V1ICRO 

BUSINESS  WORLD 

Immediate  response  to  your  orders  (verbal  or  written),  toll-free  (800)  421-0347 


tippkZ  II . . .  Apple  II  plus 
and  the  NEW  Apple  III 

The  complete,  ready  to  run  computers  .  .  .  Connect  to  your 
color  TV  and  start  writing  programs  today.  APPLE  is  faster, 
smaller,  more  powerful  than  it's  predecessors.  APPLE  will 
change  the  way  you  think  about  computers.  Call  for  our  Price. 

INVENTORY  CONTROL  SYSTEM  FOR  Apple  II 

The  first  truly  professional  system  that  can  tackle  up  to  8,100 
items  •  Transaction  register/audit  trail  •  Inventory  Status  re- 
port •  Re-order  report  •  Keeps  track  of  purchase  orders  auto- 
matically •  Will  handle  multiple  departments  or  divisions 
Fast  data  retrival. 

Minimum  hardware  requirements:  APPLE  1 1  Plus  with  48K, 
one  disk  drive  and  80  column  printer. 
Introductory  Price:  $99.00  Including  comprehensive  manual. 


ZENITH 

DATA 

SYSTEMS 

Smart  Video 
Terminal 


Z-89 
Computer  i 
System: 

includes:  Z19  Display,  a  built  in  5V4" 
Floppy  Disk.  2  serial  ports,  and  16K  of 
memory.  2295.00    48K  Memory  2595.00 
Also  48K  Z-1 9  has  a  Z80  Micro  -processor, 
numeric  keypad  and  8  function  key.  895.00 


ATARI  800 


Personal 
Computer  System 

Packed  with:  Computer  Console,  Basic 
Language  Card,  Education  System 
Master  Cartridge,  Cassette  Recorder,  TV 
Modulator,  8K  Memory  (expandable  to 
48K),  Power  Supply  &  all  Books  and 
Manuals  S799.95 

ATADI  Anf\  Personal  Computer 
HI  AM  4UU  Svstem  for  less 
Packed  with:  Computer  Console,  Basic 
Language  Cartridge,  Power  Supply,  TV 
Modulator,  and  all  Books  and 
Manuals  $499.95 

ATARI  Program  Recorder  69.99 

ATARI  Software,  Roma,  Cassettes   25%   off  list  price 

ATARI  Expansion  Memory    8K  Module  99.99 

16K  Module        169.99 


£s  commodore 


the  Great  American  Solution 


CBM  8000  SERIES  BUSINESS  COMPUTER 


CBM  2001  SERIES  BUSINESS  COMPUTER 


DYSAN  DISKETTES 


EPSON  MX-80 

DOT  MATRIX  PRINTER 

The  new  Model  MX  80  is  a  high-speed 
bidirectional,  impact  printer  capable  of 
printing  9x9  dot  matrix  characters.  Prints 
enlarged,  condensed,  condensed/enlarged, 
normal  characters  with  40,132,  66,  80  col- 
umns per  line  logical  seeking  function. 


$645. 


THE  CADILLAC  OF  THE   FLOPPY  DISKS  AT  LOW  LOW  PRICES 

8"  (BOX  OF  10)  •  3740/1  sgl  side/  sgl  density 4.50  ea 

•  3740/1D  sgl  side/dbl  density 6.95  ea 

5"  (BOX  OF  5  )•  104/1  soft  sector  e  107/1   10  sectors 

•  105/1  16  sectors 4.50  ea 

Prices  subject  to  change  without  notice. 

VISA  and  MASTER  CHARGE  WELCOME.  Allow  2  weeks  for  cashiers 
check  to  clear,  4  weeks  for  personal  checks.  Add  2%  for  shipping  and 
handling.  Calif,  residents  add  6%  sales  tax.  (Sorry,  no  C.O.D.) 

U.S.  and  International  dealer  inquiries  invited. 

Copyright  1980  •  MICRO  Business  WORLD        Circle  291  on  inquiry  card. 


EPSON  TX-80  .  . . 
DOT  MATRIX  PRINTER 

with  graphics  $795. 

16K  RAM  setof8  4H6's 
250  ns  or  better   $59.00 


/V/IICRO 


BUSINESS  WORLD 


TM 


15818  Hawthorne  Boulevard 
Lawndale,  California  90260(213)371-1 


660  j 


^•:  ■:>•:: 


6800  Family 
Software 


SOFTWARE:  WIZRD  multllasking  DOS,  editor. 

assembler,  C,  PL/W.  PASCAL.  FORTRAN.  12K  BASIC 

FIRMWARE:  FANTOM  monitor/debugger.  MATH 

long  integer  and  floating  point.  4K  industrial 

BASIC 

CROSS  SOFTWARE:  Assembler.  PL/W.  linker. 

math/science,  simulator 


WIKTKK 


1801  South  Street 
Lafayette,  IN  47904 
'   317-742-8428 


Circle  292  on  inquiry  card. 


PET 
music 


BOARD 


At  last!  A  music  maker  for  your  PET.  Our 
system  consists  of  a  small  circuit  board 
which  plugs  into  your  PET's  user  port  and 
connects  either  to  a  speaker  or  your  hi-fi 
system  (cable  included).  Our  software  (on 
cassette)  lets  you  enter ,  save,  and 
playback  music  in  up  to  four  voices,  each 
with  its  own  tone  colour.  Also  included  are 
several  sample  pieces  to  get  you  started. 
When  ordering,  please  specify  8k,  l6k,  or 
32k  PET  version. 

$*t9  without  amp  (plugs  into  your  stereo) 
$5**   with  amp  (connects  to  a  speaker) 
Please  use  certified  cheque  or  money  order. 


Electronic  Music  Systems 
kS   Livingston  Rd.  Suite  501 
West  Hill,  Ontario,  Canada 
M1E  1K8 


"PET  is  a  trademark  of  Commodore  B.H. 


v 


Circle  295  on  inquiry  card. 


S-100  VOICE 

The  ARTICULATOR  board  allows 
you  to  record,  store,  and 
playback  any  vocabulary  on  your 
S-100  computer.  Input  speech  is 
digitized  by  the  ARTICULATOR 
and  sent  to  the  computer  via  an 
on-board  port  for  storage  at  1K 
to  2K  bytes/sec.  This  data  is  then 
sent  back  from  the  computer  to 
the  ARTICULATOR  for  very  high 
quality  playback.  On-board  VOX 
switching  minimizes  memory 
storage  requirements. 

PRICE  —  $319  A&T 
AVAILABLE  NOW 

Quintrex,  Inc.,  9185  Bond 
Shawnee  Mission,  Ks.  66215 
(913)888-3353 


H8  OWNERS 

APU-H  ARITHMETIC  PROCESSOR 

CARD 

• 

ADDS     POWERFUL     MATH 

CAPABILITY  TO  H8 

• 

32     BIT    FLOATING    POINT 

OPERATION 

• 

16  AND  32  BIT  FIXED  POINT 

OPERATION 

• 

ADD.    SUBTRACT.    MULTIPLY 

AND  DIVIDE 

• 

TRIG,    LOG,     EXP.     SQUARE 

ROOT  AND  MORE 

• 

BASIC  INTERFACE  PROVIDED 

• 

USES  SINGLE  H8  CARD  SLOT 

• 

FULL  DOCUMENTATION 

• 

ASSEMBLED  AND  TESTED 

• 

VISA  AND  MASTER  CHARGE 

ACCEPTED 

$389.00 

CCM.  inc 

P.O.  BOX  2308           RES  TON  VA  2209 1 

Phone  orders  1703)  620-3403 

Circle  293  on  inquiry  card. 


16K  DYNAMIC  RAM 

T1  4116 16Kx1  RAMS 
8  FOR  $32.00       32  FOR  $120.00 

THIS  IS  A  SPECIAL  PURCHASE 
OF  NEW  T.I.  300  N.S.  DYNAMIC 
RAMS. 

These  are  factory  spec,  parts, 
not  surplus.  These  parts  will  work 
with  most  memory  boards  as  well 
as  memory  expansion  for  TRS-80, 
APPLE,  EXIDY,  etc. 


HANLEY  ENGINEERING 
P.O.  BOX  21432 

SEATTLE,  WASH.  98111 
(206)  633-3404 


Circle  296  on  Inquiry  card. 


PRINTERS 

MICROTEK  MT-80 
-ftorstM  OUR  PRICE  S77S 
-Pmrs79s   OUR  PRICE  $685 


0KIDATA  MT-80 
ibm.oo   OUR  PRICE  $650 

BASE,  MODEL  800B 
ims699  OUR  PRICE  $575 


I 


■niASt  ADD  3 %  F0S  SS.H  TO  OKDfS  ■ 

TECHNICAL  INNOVATIONS 
P.O.  BOX  803  DEPT.  B 

HILLSBOftO,  OR  97123 
503-648-6423 


I 


Circle  294  on  inquiry  card. 


$  Dysan 

•/corporation 


SoK-e  your  dfec  problem*,  buy  100%  surface 
tasted  Dysan  ■MMBtaj  AD  ordcra  chapped 
from  atock.  wMhki  24  houn.  Call  toll  FREE 
(B00)  235-4137  for  prices  and  Information 
VWa  and  Master  Card  accepted.  AD  orders 
sent  postage  paid 


PACIFIC 
EXCHANGES 

100  Foothill  Blvd. 
San  Luis  Obispo.  CA 
93401   (InCal  call 
(805)  543-1037.) 


Circle  297  on  inquiry  card. 


FIFTY  BUS  SYSTEMS 

32K  6800s  from $1694.59 

32K  6809s  from $1844.69 

Include:  Chassis,  CPU,  32K  Static  Ram,  l/Os 
Fully  Expandable 

2114L  300ns  STATIC  RAM  CHIPS    $5.90 

PA  PTfl  B  V  PR  IMP      From  ,ne  same  shipment  we  use  in  our 
riMt  I  un  I  mime      professional  qualify  ooards. 
Add  $5.00  Handling  on  Orders  Under  $200.00 

32K  STATIC  RAM  BOARD 

FOR  THE  SS50  AND  SS50C  BUS  (SWTP  etc.) 

•  SS50C  Extended  Addressing  (can  be  disabled). 

•  4  separate  8K  blocks  •  Low  power  2114L  RAMS 

•  Socketed  lor  32K  "  Write  Protect 

•  Gold  Bus  Connectors 

16K $328.12 

24K $438.14 

32K $548.15 

Phone,  write,  or  see  your  dealer  for  details  and  prices  on  our 
broad  range  of  Boards  and  Systems  for  the  SS50/SS5OC 
BUS  including  our  UNIQUE  90x24  VIDEO  BOARD,  and  our 
AC  Power  Control  Products  for  all  computers. 

Gimix     (^1 

1337  W.  37th  Place  •  Chicago,  IL  60609 
(312)927-5510  •  TWX  910-221-4055 
The  Company  that  delivers. 

Quality  Electronic  products  since  1975. 

GIMIX*   and  GHOST'    are  Registered  Trademarks  of  GIMIX  INC 


Circle  298  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  300  on  inquiry  card. 


FOR  APPLE  II  AND  APPLE  II  PLUS  COMPUTERS 

DoubleVision" 


80  x  24  Video  Display  with  Upper  and  Lower  Case 

COLUMNS  LINES 

•  is  a  hardware  board  that  may  be  plugged  into  any  slot  in  Apple  II  or  Apple  II  Plus32Kor48K  Disks  •  full  128  ASCII  character  set,  including 
control  characters  •  fully  programmable  cursor  •  built  in  light  pen  capability  •  inverse  video  •  full  cursor  control  •  works  with 
50/60HZ  •  has  2k  of  its  own  screen  memory  •  has  its  own  video  output  jack  that  must  be  connected  to  a  monitor  (or  a  high  band  width  black 
&  white  TV  thru  a  good  RF  modulator).  Color  TV's  produce  a  poor  display  and  are  not  recommended.  •  permits  you  to  connect  another 
monitor  (or  a  T.V.  set  thru  RFmod)  to  the  Apple  video  output  jack  •  displays  24  lines  of  80  column  text  —  programmable  for  different 
values  •  permits  you  to  have  graphics  on  Apple  video  output  •  video  output  and  Apple  video  output  may  be  connected  to  one  monitor  thru 
optional  video  switch  •  is  active  only  when  addressed  for  reading  from  or  writing  to  •  accepts  lower  case  input  from  keyboard  by  use  of 
escape  key.  (no  modification  required)  or  direct  use  of  shift  key  (1-wire  connection  from  shift  key  pad  to  DoubleVision  required).  •  is  compati- 
ble with  the  latest  version  of  various  word  processing  software  packages.  Presently  these  include  Apple-pie  2.0—  Programma  International, 
Easywriter  Professional  system— Informational  Unlimited,  Text  Editor/Formatter— Peripheral's  Unltd.  (when  ordering  from  these  companies, 
please  ask  for  versions  compatible  with  DoubleVision).  All  software  available  from  Computer  Stop  when  released.  •  Peripheral's  Unltd. 
B.I.T.S.  and  P.I.T.S.  and  Southeastern  Software's  "DATA  CAPTURE"  with  Micromodem  and  communication  card.  These  packages  give  ability 
to  upload,  transfer  and  download  files  from  remote  computers,  and  all  at  80  columns!  •  Programma  Int.  latest  assembler  LISA  V:20  will  sup- 
port full  80  column  display  •  is  transparent  for  use  with  Basic  and  Pascal  •  software  on  disk  for  easy  modification  and  adaptation  for  dif- 
ferent applications  •  completely  commented  source  listing  of  software  and  hardware  schematics  available  •  PASCAL 
(optional)  •  becomes  the  console  when  installed  in  Pascal  •  Permits  80  column  text  processing  with  full  upper/lower  case  while  using 
Pascal's  editor  •  must  be  plugged  into  slot  3  when  operating  with  Pascal 


Available  now  at  your  local  computer  store 3>^%7&.UU 


Call  Computer  Stop  for  Store  nearest  you 
Shipping,  Insurance,  Handling,  extra 


Dealer  inquiries  invited. 
Contact: 

COMPUTER  STOP  CORP. 

2545  West  237th  St. 

Suite  L 

Torrance,  CA  90505 

539-7671 


The  Computer  Stop 

16919  Hawthorne  Blvd. 
Lawndale,  CA  90260 

(213)371-4010 


Circle  301  on  inquiry  card. 


Calif.  Residents  add  6%  Sales  Tax 
•Apple  is  a  Registered  TM  of  Apple  Computers,  Inc. 


MON.  -  SAT. 
10-6 


BYTE  November  1980 


383 


J^  ATARI 


Atari  800 $810.00  810  Disk  Drive  . .  $525  00 

16K  RAM  Module  $150.00  Controllers $18/Pr. 

All  ROM's,  Including  STAR  RAIDERS,  20%  OFF!!! 
"•Bit  Bucket  software  for  the  ATARI"* 

Disassembler/dumper/ 

depositer/BASIC  renumber $30.00 

Action  Games . . .  $25.00  Brain  Games . . .  $25.00 

All  above  Bit  Bucket  software  FREE  with 

purchase  of  ATARI  800. 

Free  utilities  disk  (disasm,  renumber,  etc.)  with 

purchase  of  810  Disk. 

PET 

8K  . . .  .$699.00  16K  . .  .$876.00  32K  . .  .$1140.00 

CAT  Modems $156.00! 

Soroc  IQ120  Terminals $775.00 

All  Centronics  Printers  15%  OFF!! 

The  Bit  Bucket 

168  North  Beacon  Street 

P.O.  Box  365 

Newton  Highlands,  MA  02161 

Phone:  (617)  7B3-3144 
See  us  at  the  Northeast  Computer  Show  in  Boston 
November  20-23 

All  prices  subject  to  change  without  notice. 


1802  USERS 

Original  innovations  from  the  other  side 
of  the  world. 

1.  Micro-basic  for  1802  micro- 
systems. Uses  only  I K  of  memory 
and  HEX  key  pads.  The  world's 
smallest! 

2.  HUG  1 802  microprocessor  full 
color  7K  on  board  memory.  Uni- 
que original  ultracompact  design. 

3.  Also  just  developed  PASCAL  for 
1802. 

4.  1802  owners  contact  us  for  FREE 
data  on  Australasian  developed  in- 
novations never  before  published. 

Write  to:  Kit  Parte,  Ltd. 

DeptB 
Box  27037 
Wellington, 
New  Zealand 


ATARI  OWNERS 

SCREEN  PRINT 
INTERFACE 


Obtain  hoTdcopy  of  any  screen  image 
(graphics  and  /  or  text)  on  either  a 
TRENDCOM  200  or  IDS  440  Paper 
Tiger  printer  Simply  attach  the  sup- 
plied parallel  printer  cable  and  load 
the  software  from  cassette  (may  be 
transferred  to  Disk).  Obtain  o  "picture" 
of  the  screen  on  your  printer  under 
direct  (CTRL?)  or  program  (XI0) 
control.  Works  in  all  graphics/text 
modes  as  well  as  LPRINT  ond  LIST  "P" 


Only 


$139 


California  residents  add  6%  tax 


AMCROTRONICS,  inc.  ® 

1 125  N- Golden  State  Blvd.  /  Suite G 
Turlock,  CA  95380  (A) 
(209)  667-2888  /  634-8888 


We  are  experiencing  fefepfione 
difficulties,  please  keep  trying. 


Circle  302  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  303  on  Inquiry  card. 


Circle  304  on  inquiry  card. 


NORTHSTAR  SOFTWARE 

FUN  ON  THE  HORIZON  is  a  collection  of  40 
games  with  average  size  over  200  lines.  In- 
cludes Poker,  Golf,  Football,  Biorhythm,  Blaok- 
jack,  Keno,  Life  and  33  more $24.00 

UTILITY  contains  a  Z80/8080  Disassembler  for 
machine  code  programs  resident  in  RAM  or  on 
diskette.  It  also  includes  a  COMPRESS  utility  for 
BASIC  program  files  which  increases  execution 
speed  while  decreasing  program  size  as  much  as 
35% $17.00 

SUPRTREK,  a  space  battle  game,  features  ac- 
tion graphics  and  an  updated  play-by-play 
display  map  of  the  galaxy.  Over  900  lines  of 
code S 1 1 .00 

All  programs  use  the  64  character  ASCII  subset 
with  max  line  length  64  characters.  Available  in 
double  or  single  density  on  1  or  2  ISDI  specially 
modified  double-sided  diskettes.  (SD,  add 
$4.00  per  order) 

COMBINATION  PRICE:  All  three  packages  for 
$36.00 

Order  now  from        S&S  Computing,  Inc. 
64  Juniper  Street 
Allentown,  Pa.  18106 
(215)  398-1299 

or  circle  our  reader  service  number  below  to 
receive  4  pages  of  program  abstracts  and  sam- 
ple output. 


Circle  305  on  inquiry  card. 


INVENTORY  CONTROL  SYSTEM 

WITH  PARTS  EXPLOSION  FOR 
FINISHED  GOODS  AND  ASSEMBLIES 

Parts  requirements  forecasting  &  Pull  Sheets 

Economic  Order  Quantities  &  Pull  Sheets 

1500  Items  per  single  density  8"  disk  side 

AVAILABLE  FOR  CROMEMCO.  CP/M, 

AND  OASIS  OPERATING  SYSTEMS 

Hardware  requirements:  64k  RAM, 
132  Column  printer.  Manual  (Includes 
Source)  and  8"  floppy  disk  . . .  $250. 
Accounts  Receivable.  Accounts  Pay- 
able. General  Ledger.  Payroll  and 
Mailing  List  programs  also  available. 

FEITH  SOFTWARE,  INC. 

CEDARBR00KA-1103 

WYNCOTE,  PA.  19095 

(215)  887-9780 


Circle  306  on  inquiry  card. 


! !  ftCAL  TIME 


» t 


The  TIME  MACHINE  from  ALPHA  OMEGA  COMPUTER 
SYSTEMS  isn't  just  another  digital  clock  chip  surrounded 
by  interface  circuitry.  It's  an  intelligent  microcomputer 
based  peripheral  device. 

The  TIME  MACHINE  communicrtei  with  your  computer 
via  a  serial   I/O  port  at  auser  selectabledata  rate  between 
300  and  2400  baud.   BS-232,   RS-422,  or  current  loop 
communication  may  be  used. 

Battery  protection  against  power  loss  is  included.  The 
TIME  MACHINE  automatically  computes  day  of  the  week 
and  leap  year.   Buffered  output  pulses  at  one  second,   one 
minute,   and  one  hour  intervals  are  provided. 

Dimensions  are  2.5  x  4.75  x  7.5  inches.    Batteries, 
power  supply,   and  communication  cable  are  included. 


Jrice  is  only  $450  single  lot  and  quantity  discounts  are 
ivailable.   Dealer  inquiries  invited.   Off  the  shelf  delivery. 

ALPHA 
OMCGAcoftpUTM  sysTtMs,  inc. 

PO  Bo.  11.1/  Cor  •Ml)*    Oregon  97330 

15031754-1911  "' 


Circle  307  on  inquiry  card. 


ARE  YOU  LOOKING  FOR  AN 

iS)/&v  (SS\(mm) 

ACOUSTIC   MODEM? 

THEN  TEAR  THIS  OUT,    YOU 

pin 

C  C  S  INC 

WON'T  SEE  IT  AGAIN  I    !    ! 
BELL   103,    300  BAUD, 

CATALOGS 

101 1  So  Rancho  Dr 
Las  Vegas,  Nevada 

ORIGINATE  MODE, 
RS-232  INTERFACE, 

Software  (over  400  programs  for 
Apple,  Pet,  TRS-80,  Sorcerer,  Sol, 

(702)  384-0067 

. 

BUILT  FOR  TI -7 33, 

Challenger  and  CP/M  systems) 

TURNKEY  SYSTEMS 

. 

TESTED  AND  GUARANTEED. 

Books  (over  100  titles  on  person- 

AVAILABLE TODAY 

LIMITED   QUANTITY 

al,  recreational  and  educational 
applications  of  small  computers. 

•MEDICAL  BILLING* 

CARD   S  COUPLER:    $   89.00 

Peripherals  (ALF  music  synthesi- 

•WORD PROCESSING* 

^/CUSTOM  CASE:      $109.00 
w/CASE  S  POWER:    $124.00 

zer  and  VersaWriter  for  the 
Apple  II) 

•UNIVERSITY  ADMISSIONS* 
•POINT  OF  SALES* 

ADD   $3.00   FOR  SHIPPING. 
■      reative  HflindRusmesses 

Perioherok  PIik 

FREE  TRAINING 

f 

119  Maple  Avenue 
Morristown,  NJ  07960 

CALL  TODAY 

P.O.  Box  18252  •  Tucson,  Az  85731 

< 

Circle  308  on  inquiry  card. 

Circle  309  on  inquiry  card. 

Circle  310  on  inquiry  card. 

computer  11 
products,    inc. 


11542-1  KNOTT 

DEPT.  C 

GARDEN  GROVE, 

CA  92641 

(800)  854-641 1 

(714)891-2663 


ORDERING  INFO 


NAME,  ADDRESS,  PHONE 

SHIP  BY:  UPS  OR  MAIL 

SHIPPING  CHRG.  ADD 

$2.00  UP  TO  (5)  LBS. 

$25.00  Minimum  Order 


ATARI   MODEL  #800 
(NEW  16K  VERSION) 

•COMPUTER  CONSOLE 
•ATARI  BASIC  8K  ROM 
•57  FULL  STROKE  ALPHANUMERIC 

KEYS  PLUS  4  FUNCTION  KEYS 
•  INVITATION  TO  PROGRAMMING 

CASSETTE 

•OPERATORS  MANUAL 
•EDUCATION  SYSTEMS  MASTER 


•JOYSTICKS 
•RF  MODULATOR 
•POWER  SUPPLY 

CALL  FOR  PRICE 

(IN  STOCK) 


ANACOM  GENERAL 
MODEL -150  PRINTER 


10%  OFF  SOFTWARE 
WITH  PURCHASE 


9x9  Matrix 

Impact  Dot 

150  CPS. 

10CPI 

136  Columns 

94  ASCII  Character 


6  or  8  Lines  per  Inch 
Pin  Feed  &  Dual 
Tractor  Drive 
RS-232or 
Parallel  Interface 

CALL    FOR    PRICE 


TERMS 


WE  ACCEPT  CASH, 

CHECK  MONEY  ORDERS, 

VISA  &  MASTER  CHRG. 

(U.S.  FUNDS  ONLY) 

TAX:  6%  CALIF.  RES. 


STATIC  &  DYNAMIC 
RAM  CHIPS 

2104's 

(4K)  DYNAMICS 

$200ea. 

5257-3L 

(4K)  STATIC 
$525ea. 


ATARI   OPTIONAL  ACCESSORIES 
MODEL  #810  DISK  DRIVE  SYSTEM 
MODEL  #820  40-COL.  DOT  MATRIX  PRINTER 
MODEL  #822  40-COL.  THERMAL  PRINTER 
MODEL  #825  80-COL.  DOT  MATRIX  PRINTER 
MODEL  #830  ACOUSTIC  MODEM 
MODEL  #850  INTERFACE  MODULE 
MODEL  #CX853  16K  RAM  MODULE 

CALL  FOR  PRICE  &  AVAILABILITY 


ATARI 


SOFTWARE  & 
ACCESSORIES 


BASKETBALL  ROM  $30.00 

SUPER-BREAKOUT  ROM  $30.00 

STAR  RAIDERS  ROM  $45.00 

CHESS  ROM  $30.00 

VIDEO  EASEL  ROM  $30.00 

MUSIC  COMPOSER  ROM  $45.00 

3D  TIC  TAC  TOE  ROM  $30.00 

JOYSTICKS  $18.00 

PADDLE  CONTROLS  $18.00 

#410  CASSETTE  RECORDER  $60.00 


MICROBYTE 

(NEW  PRODUCTS) 

•Z-80  CPU/IO  BOARD 

•DBL.  DENSITY  DISK  CONTROLLER 

•64K  DYNAMIC  RAM  BD. 

•4  PORT  I/O  BD. 

•MICRO  Z  SYSTEM 

•  D2  DISK  SYSTEM 

ALL  ASSEMBLED  &  TESTED 
CALL  FOR  PRICE  &  DELIVERY 


2114L-3 

LO  PWR./300NS 


1-16    . 
17-49   , 
50-99 
100  Up 

IN  STOCK 


.4.25 
.4.00 
.3.80 
.3.60 


S.D.  SYSTEMS 

NOW  AVAILABLE 
•EXPANDORAM  I  &  II 
•VERSAFLOPPY 
•SBC100/SBC200 
•VDB  8024  VIDEO  BOARD 
•PROM-100  PROGRAMMER 

KITS&A&T        CALL  FOR  PRICE 


ADD-ON 

4116'S       MEMORY 

APPLE,  TRS-80,  HEATH,  ETC. 

(200NS)    8  for  $39.00 
16  for  $75.00 

(250NS)    8  for  $37.00 
16  for  $70.00 


MICROBYTE  32K 

STATIC  RAM  BOARD 

•IEEE/S-100  COMPATIBLE 

•4K  BANK  ADDRESSABLE  TO  ANY 

4K  SLOT  WITHIN  64K  BOUNDARY 
•ON  BOARD  8-BIT  OUTPUT  PORT 
•  NO  DMA  RESTRICTIONS 
•4  MHZ  OPERATION 

ASSEMBLED  &  TESTED       $475 


00 


2708's 

(450  ns.) 

$7.50  ea. 

OR 
8/  $56.00 


2716's 

5  VOLT  ONLY 
450  ns. 

$15.00 

(PRIME) 


CENTRONICS 

MODEL  #737 

•  80  CPS  Proportional  Spaced 

•  Dot  Matrix  (7x9)  or  (7x8) 

•  96  Character  ASCII 

•  Parallel  Interface 

$32500 


8080A 


ANADEX  PRINTERS 


MODEL  #DP8000  CALL  FOR 
MODEL  #DP8000  (APPE)  PRICE 

MODEL  #DP9500  & 

MODEL  #DP9501  DELIVERY 

FEATURES  ON  DP8000: 

•80  COLUMNS,  112  CPS,  BI-DIRECTIONAL, 
SPROCKET  FEED,  9x7  CHARACTER  FONT, 
VARIABLE  FORM  WIDTH 


Z-80A 

CPU  CHIP 

NEC  #D780C-1 

$10. 00       ea. 


COMPONENTS 


74LS240 
74LS241 
74LS244 
74LS373 
74LS374 


$1.50 
$1.40 
$1.50 
$1.60 
$1.60 


QUME  DT-8 

DOUBLE-SIDED/ 

SGL/DBL  DENSITY 

8"  DISK  DRIVES 

CALL  FOR  PRICE 


SHUGART 

SA801R 

Bare  Drives 

Single  Sided/ 

Sgl/Dbl  Density 

CALL  FOR  PRICE 

AND  DELIVERY 


(CERAMIC) 

s2.50  ea. 


VERBATIAM 
5V4" 

SOFT-SECTOR 
DISKETTS 
BOX  OF  (10) 

$29.95 


CAPACITORS 

.1  @  12  VOLTS 

CERAMIC 

11'ea. 

100/S10.00 


NEW  PRODUCTS 
AVAILABLE 

•COMMODORE 
•GODBOUT 
•LEEDEX 
•PERSONAL 
SOFTWARE 
•SANYO 
•SOROC 
•TEXAS  INST. 
CALL  FOR  PRICES 


RS232C0NNECT0RS 


DB25P 
DB25S 


1-9 
2.99 
3.80 


10-24  25  Up 
2.75  2.45 
3.70    3.60 


IMSAI  CONNECTORS 

100  PIN  GOLD-SOLDERTAIL 

$2.50  ea. 

OR 

10/S2.30  ea. 


320T-5 90 

320T-12 80 

340T-5 75 

340T-12 65 

78H05 5.25 


SA  800/801  DISK  DRIVE 

1  OR  2  DRIVES  INSTALLED,  SGL  OR 
DBL.  DENSITY/SGL-SIDED,  METAL 

CABINET,  &  POWER  SUPPLY 
(1)  SA800/$775.00  (2)  SA800/$1 250.00 
(1)  SA801/$795.00  (2)  SA801/$1 295.00 

1  YR.  WARRANTY  PARTS  &  LABOR 


Circle  311  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


385 


Disk    Based 
Word    Processor 


7 


Available    Now! 


Mailing  List  Option 


7 


■23MME 


■4441       West      First      Ave. 
Vancouver,     B.C. 
^Mfe.  VBR   4H9  ■■ 

604-224-3107     h£ 


Apple  II 

SOFTWARE 

ACCESSORIES 

SUPPLIES 

ULTRA-CURRENT 
1000   ITEMS 


kqn 

fflMe 


X* 


1 


fiB»wr«i»; 


TO  ORDER 

'  send  $3  00 

.  You  receive  current 
BUYERS  GUIDE 
and  a  certificate 
worth  $3.00  off  of 

I  your  first  purchase 


2S13  N.  Sheridan  Rd. 
Peoria,  Illinois  61604 


JINSAM    Da*° 


Circle  312  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  313  on  inquiry  card. 


>  Manager 


•  CUSTOM  DATA  FILES 

•  FAST/EASY/MENU  DRIVEN 

•  HELP  COMMANDS 

•  KEYED  RANDOM  ACCESS 

•  MULTIPLE  SEARCH  KEYS 

•  PRIVACY  ACCESS  CODES 

•  WILD  CARD  SEARCH 


For  16K-32K  PET,  Dual  Disk,  and  Printer 

FREE:  LABEL  PRINTER  MODULE 

FREE:  REPORT  GENERATOR  MODULE 

Specify  CBM  2040  or  COMPU/THINK 

Package  $175  User's  Guide  only  $25 

Introductory  Demo  Tape  $5    Disk  $  8 

Check  or  Money  Order  plus  $2  Shipping 

(NY  residents  add  8%  Sales  Tax) 

-DEALER  INQUIRIES  WELCOMED- 


JINI  MICRO-SYSTEMS,  Inc. 

P.O.  Box  274-B     •     Bronx,  NY  10463 


Circle  314  on  inquiry  card. 


r~  QUARTZ  CRYSTALS  "*"*$ 

'   I         l:    Tit 

B&ttM 

9.9336-B      20.000-B     3628B6-B 

428518  6 

468 1 268        I 

1        5390B 

5.GI0-B 

9.98408-B    20.4988-B    36  3636  B 

4287688 

4737688     '  . 

.  '     1  000  A 

5.7143  B 

9.989608    22.1184-8    379628  B 

42.92588 

47883B-B     ( 

1     1  8432  A 

5.955-8 

lOJMQ-B      22.6258-B    38.3768  B 

42.96288 

46.0008       ,  ' 

1  ,     IB437B 

5.9BZ-B 

10  2458 -B     26.3556-B    384448-B 

43.0006-B 

4B.3Q06-6        | 

1  '     ZO0DA 

6.000-6 

10.4*8-6     26.5006  E    38  6258  B 

43.037B-B 

48.66688     '  . 

.1    ?oori* 

6.144-B 

10.77558    266706-8    36.9258-8 

43.0748-8 

48  70068     |  ' 

,         .    V..I    * 

515030-8 

1082558    278008     39.31288 

43  18588 

488768-B        r 

i     ?aooA 

B.29780-B 

10  8386  6    2780068    39.50388 

43.25988 

49.70068     '  , 

i1     ?B657B 

6.400  B 

111360-B    27.65068    39  6668  B 

43-3338-8 

49.73386     i 

1     299S0B 

6.5536  B 

11155-8      2840066    39.7S38-B 

43.3708  B 

498I288     i  ' 

'       3  000  A 

6.72530  B 

H.21B6-8    28.G2768   398768-8 

■13  4078  B 

50.25058        I 

-1          106?  B 

6.75940-B 

11.2890-6    28.7538-8   39.9628-8 

43.43788 

5 1 85568      -<  . 

,   1          lull 

6.9003  B 

11.47768    2967588    40.44488 

43  44488 

5131288     { 

I     3?76BA 

7.0063-6 

1165668    29.937B-8    405328  B 

43.5558-8 

5177788     J 

1  .     3MQB 

rams 

1168168    30.0648  B    4081288 

4362988 

51.85068      '  , 

|  '     ••-■■■; 

7.0916  B 

12.440-8     363606  B    4083368 

4366688 

52.6128  6     1 

1     4  000  6 

7  1836  B 

1431828    30.6258-8    4087588 

43.77788 

56.7506-6     ,  ' 

1.     4  1943  B 

7.2586-B 

14.43088    308768  6    4088BB-B 

4381288 

60.6006-8       1 

1       4  34»B 

8.000B 

150008     31.4378-8   40.92588 

4381488 

60.7508-6     <  , 

.  >     44803B 

8.0556B 

15.44088    31.75388    4160088 

43.85188 

6675068     < 

',     4  6103  B 

8.1416  B 

15.5066  8    31.90088    41  1666- 1 

43.88886 

7040068     ,  ' 

(       46503B 

B.  IB  18-8 

160008     320008     4137668 

43.92568 

750X58       | 

,'     48303  B 

B.3303B 

1638488    33.20068   4193788 

44.00088 

9083388     '  , 

1     491528 

8.4998  B 

17.2248-8    3362588   42.00OB-B 

44.03788 

99.9668-6     ( 

1  ,     bOOOB 

8.5766  B 

17.2422-6    34.55568   4?  5836-8 

44.37688 

100.6668-6   .  1 

I       bOSBBB 

8.6058-8 

188008     34.75388   42.6268  6 

44.77788 

101  4668  B   '  | 

,'    51?03B 

8.9606  B 

1B.4320-6    34.9776  B    42.70068 

45.12568 

103.06688  < 

)         83  B 

8.9906  B 

19.46908    35.92568   42.75388 

46.3006-8 

103.46688  i  ' 

'       5  1B56  B 

9.47208  B 

1975088    35.000-6     4281488 

467006-8 

104.99188   ,  1 

|         ALL   A    - 

CUM 

ALL  8  -11.99 

DflHM0flr:-Q£0UCT5%  '  | 

ADO  SI. 00  SHIPPING 

CAL. 

RES,  ADD  6%  SALES  TAX 

FREE  OSCILLATOR  SCHEMATICS              '  I 

WITH  ANY  ORDER 

i]        QUALITY  COMPUTER  PARTS       !» 

1       p  o. 

BOX  743  /  CHATSWORTh 

.CA91311        I 

MEMOREX 

Floppy  Discs 

Lowest  prices.  WE  WILL  NOT 
BE    UNDERSOLD!!    Buy    any 

quantity  1-1000.  Visa,  Mastercharge 
accepted  Call  free  (800)235-4137 
for  prices  and  information.  All 
orders  sent  postage  paid. 


PACIFIC 
EXCHANGES 

100  Foothill  Blvd. 
San  Luis  Obispo.  CA 
93401.  (InCal.  call 
(805)  543-1037.) 


MICROCOMPUTERS  and 
PHYSIOLOGICAL  SIMULATION 

James  E.  Randall,  Indiana  University 
School  of  Medicine,  Bioomington 

Foreword  by  Arthur  C.  Guyton,  University 
c.t  Mississippi  School  of  Medicine,  Jackson 
This  book  provides  microcomputer  hardware  and 
firngrams  suited  for  teaching  simulations  such  as 
nerve  action  potential,  cardiac  action  potential, 
cardiovascular  system  mechanics,  and  the  glucose 
tolerance  test. 

"Sorely  needed  lor  those  ot  us  who  are  just  begin- 
ning to  adapt  microprocessors  to  teaching  appli- 
cations in  Physiology.  Dr.  Randall  is  eminently 
qualified  to  do  this  special  job.  He  has  interacted 
for  several  years  with  his  potential  readers 
through  his  activities  in  the  American  Physiologi- 
cal Society." 

Beverly  Bishop 
SVNY  nt  Buffalo,  School  of  Medicine 
Feb.  1981).  250  pp.,  illus.     Paper  06128  $14.50 
Price  is  subject  to  change  without  notice. 

Addison- Wesley 

Advanced  Book  Program 

Heading,  Mass.  01867.  U.S.A. 


Circle  315  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  316  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  317  on  inquiry  card. 


Fine  Software  Tools  in  C 


The  Toolbox 

xref     -     cross     reference     C     programs      Handles 

^include  and  #line. 
sort  -  alphabetize  by  all  or  part  of  text  line. 
list  ■■  print  source  listing  with  date  heading  and  line 

numbers-  Handles  ^include  and  #line. 
col  -  rearrange  into  variable  number  of  columns 
print      paginates  text  for  hard  copy. 
crt  -  spool  through  your  files,  a  screen  at  a  time 
and  more 

All  programs  in  Whitesmith  C  except  date  funt  lion 
of  list  and  print  in  PDP-11*  assembler.  Source  code 
on  8"  floppies  in  RT-11*(RX01)  format.  Documenta- 
tion included.  Available  immediately  for  $45  (in- 
cludes shipping  and  sales  tax)  from; 
•PDP-11  and  RT-11  are  trademarks  of  Digital  Equip- 
ment Corporation. 

The  Toolsmith 

P.O.  Box  22511 

San  Francisco,  CA  94122 


INTERTEC  SUPERBRAIN  SOFTWARE 
Available  Now! 

'  LEDGER  

Takes  care  of  Stacks,  Bonds,  CD's,  A/R, 
Real  Estate,  others  -up  to  250  investments 

il.NERAL  LEDGER 

All  general  bookkeeping  functions,  major  (.  sub 
accounts,  coiapar  i  t  i  ve  statements 

.1PENSE  LEDGER  

Designed  to  co-ordinate  with  the  General  Ledger 
for  applications  with  multiple  coat  centers 

HECK  REGISTER/BANK  RECONCILIATION  

Relieve  the  worries  of  keeping  up  with 

iNAHCIAL  PACKAGE  

Amortization  schedules,  balloon  -lOtea, 
effective  interest,  present/f uti re  value,  etc. 

•  Wumpus  "  Escape         •  Bismark 

*  Adventure         *  Others 

I.LLANEOUS 

EPORT  GENERATORS  S 

Rentals,  Automobiles,  Insurance 

Li,  SOFTWARE  EXCLUSIVELY  DEVELOPED  FOR  THE  SUPERBRA 

.  prices  include  manuals,  additional  manuals  s^5  e 

'    Prices  do  not  include  media  cost 


Gmntral  Sytttmi  Consulting 


!9'.5i  676-9612    2310  5  7TH,  Suite  118,  Abilene 


LOGIC  PROBE 
$10.95 


msm 


CMOS/TTL 

H I     70% 

LO   30% 

PULSE 

Hl-Z      or      INVALID    LEVEL 


ASSEMBLED  AND  TESTED. 


■=^E 


POWERED  BY  CIRCUIT  UNDER  TEST. 

SUPPLY  LEADS  AND  INPUT  ARE  OVERVOLTAGE  AND 

REVERSE  POLARITY  PROTECTED. 

COMPARE  TO  UNITS  COSTING  2  AND  3  TIKES  AS  MUCH: 
USE  OUR  90  DAY  GUARANTEE  AS  A  TRIAL  PERIOD. 
YOUR  MONEY  BACK  IP  NOT  SATISFIED: 


SEND  $19.95  T01  ORDER  DLP-1300. 

CYBERTECH 


UE  PAY  POSTAGE. 


SORRY,   NO  C.O.D.S 


Circle  318  on  Inquiry  card. 


Circle  319  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  320  on  inquiry  card. 


EXCITING  MAILORDER  DISCOUNTS 


[apple*  ][ 


i6K  computer 

Disk  II  with  Controller  $47S...withaut  $425 


$899 

APPLE  II  32K  $999 
APPLE  II  48K  $1099 

DOS  3.3  Witt  upgrade  kit  $48 


APPLE  II 
ACCESSORIES 

Apple)  Joystick 47 

ABT  Numeric  Input  Keyboard 114 

ALf  Muaic  Synthe»i«r 245 

Bf ightpen  Lightpen  from  Softape 32 

Clear  Cover  for  Apple  Computer 25 

CCS  Programmable  Timer  Module 159 

Dan  Paymer  Lower  Case  Kit 49 

D  C  Hayes  Micromdem 335 

Extender  Board 27 

Graphics  Input  Tablet 649 

Introl  X  10  Remote  Control  System 239 

Introl  X-10  Controller  Only 164 

M&R  Sup  R  Term  80  Column  Board 32S 

Microsoft  Z  80  Soft  Card 299 

Novation  Cat  Modem 159 

Horn  writer 149 

Speechlink  2000/64  Word  Vocabulary 215 

Super  Talker  Speech  Synthesizer 239 

Sup  R  Mod  RF  TV  Modulator 25 

SVA  8"  Disc  Controller  Card 329 

Versa  Writer  Digitizer  Drawing  System . .  .  209 

WE  SHIP  FAST! 


Adventure  by  Microsoft 27 

Apple  Bowl 14 

Applebug  Assembler/Dissassembler 69 

Applebug  Debugger 27 

Applepost  Graph  &  Plot  System 59 

Applepost  Mailing  List  System 44 

Applesoft  Utility  Programs  by  Hayden  ....  27 

Applewriter  Word  Processor 59 

Bill  Budges  Space  Game  Album 39 

Bill  Budges  Trilogy  of  Games 29 

The  Cashier  Retail  Managment  System  . .  189 
CCA  Data  Management 

by  Personal  Software 84 

The  Contributed  Volumes  1-5 

w/manuals 29 

Desktop  Plan  by  Personal  Software 79 

Dow  Jones  Portfolio  Evaluator 44 

Forth  II  by  Programme  Software 45 

Fortran  for  use  with  Language  System.    .  159 

Pascal  Language  System 396 

Sargon  II  Chess  Game-cassette 27 

Sargon  II  Chess  Game-disk 35 

Shell  Games 27 

Space  invader -Cassette 18 

Space  Invader-disk 25 

Sub-Logic  FS-1  Flight  Simulator 

Cassette 23 


Sub-Logic  FS-1  Flight  Simulator-disk 29 

Sybex  Apple  80  8080  Simulator 17 

Visicalc  by  Personal  Software 115 


APPLE  COMPUTER 
INTERFACE  CARDS 

Asynchronous  Serial  Interface  #7710A. . .  $145 

Applesoft  II  Firmware    Card 149 

CCS  Arithmetic  Processor  Card  0781  IB      329 

CCS  Parallel  Interface   Card  O720A 155 

Centronics  Printer  Interface  Card 179 

Apple  Clock/Calendar  Card 

by  Mountain  Hardware 229 

Communications  Card  6-  DB25  Cable ....  179 

Integer  Basic  Firmware  Card 149 

Parallel  Printer  Interface  Card 139 

Prototyping  Hobby  Card 22 

Romplus  Card  with  keyboard  filter 169 

Romplus  Card  without  keyboard  filter. . . .  159 
SSM  AIO  Serial  Parallel  I/O 

Assembled  &  Tested 169 

Serial  Interface  Cerd 139 

Symtec  Light  Pen  Card 214 


PRINTERS, 
MONITORS,  DISCS 


Anadex  DP8000 850 

Anadex  DP8000AP 850 

Centronics  without  cable 819 

Epson  TX80-B  WfGraphics 799 

MPI  88T 650 

NEC  Spinwriter  *5510 2695 

Paper  Tiger  with  Graphics 959 

Silentype  with  Interface  Card 496 

Leedex  Video  100^12"  B&W 139 

Sanyo  9"  B&W 169 

Color  Monitor  11" 349 

Dyson  disks  Ipkg  10) 50 

Memorex  (pkg  101 40 

Verbatim  ipkg  10) 30 


^cippta  computer  \J\ 
IN  STOCK,  CALL  FOR  PRICES! 


f/^[|3j*™ 


$799 


•High  resolution  COLOR  Graphics  •Built-in  RF  TV  modulator 

•1  OK  Basic  in  ROM  -High  speed  serial  I/O  port 

•  SKuser  RAM  expandable  to  48K  •  Includes  ATARI  4 1 0  program  recorder 

•  57  key  full  stroke  keyboard 


Atari  820  Printer $489 

Atari  810  Disk  Drive 569 

Atari  410  Program  Recorder 69 

Atari  16K  RAM  Module 149 

Atari  8K  RAM  Module 99 

Atari  Basic  ROM 45 

Assembler/Editor 45 

Basketball 30 

Video  Easel 30 

Super  Breakout 30 

Music  Composer 45 

Computer  Chess 30 

Star  Raiders 39 

3D  Tic-Tac-Toe 30 

Joystick 19 


SORCERER  H 
$969 1 


16K 


The  SORCERER  is  a  Z80  CPU  based  micro-computer  internally  expan 
dable  to  48K.  4K  ROM  resident  monitor.  I/O  connector  for  S-100  ex 
pansion.  Parallel  and  serial  interface.  Dual  cassette  I/O.  Graphic  reso 
lution  of  240  x  512,  30  lines  of  64  characters,  8  x  8  dot  matrix 
Full  ASCII  set  (upper  and  lower  case),  plus  standard  graphic  symbols 
User  may  define  up  to  128  characters.  Keyboard  is  63-key  data 
processing  type,  plus  a  16  key  numberic  input  pad. 

S-100  EXPANSION  UNIT $399 

WORD  PROCESSOR  PAC 179 

DEVELOPMENT  PAC 89 

WE   ALSO    SELL   "QUALITY    SOFTWARE"    FOR   SORCERER   AT    10%    OFF    LIST. 


VISA 


TO  ORDER:  Phone  orders  invited  using  Visa,  Mastercard,  or 
bank  wire  transfers.  Visa  &  MC  credit  card  service  charge 
of  2%.  Mail  orders  may  send  charge  card  number  (include 
expiration  date),  cashiers  check,  money  order,  or  personal 
check  (allow  10  business  days  for  personal  checks  to  clear). 
Please  include  phone  number.  Include  3%  shipping,  hand- 


ting,  and  insurance  ($5.00  minimum)  in  USA.  Shipments 
within  Calif,  add  6%  sales  tax.  Foreign  orders  include  1% 
handling-shipped  freight  collect.  Foreign  orders  over  $1000 
allow  3  weeks  extra  and  include  $25  license  fee.  All 
equipment  is  in  factory  cartons  with  the  manufacturers 
warranty.  Equipment  is  subject  to  price  change  and  avail- 
ability. 


MAIL  TO:  1251  BROADWAY  IV  CAJON  CA.,  KK\  £714]  579'0330 


AUTHORIZED 

APPLE 

SALES  & 

SERVICE 


iii«4'jii;i[lj  MM  j,ljj  IMr.fei ' 


Circle  321  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980        387 


-jiMi  %  i  a  i 


.18 

64K  BYTE  EXPANDABLE  RAM 

DYNAMIC  RAM  WITH  ON  BOAROTRANSPARENT 
REFRESH  GUARANTEED  TO  OPERATE  IN 
NORTHSTAR.  CROMEMCO.  VECTOR  GRAPHICS. 
SOL.  AND  OTHER  8080  OR  Z-80  BASED  S100 
SYSTEMS  *4MHZ  Z-80  WITH  NO  WAIT  STATES 

*  SELECTABLE  AND  DESELECTABLE  IN  4K 
INCREMENTS  ON  4K  ADDRESS  BOUNDARIES. 

»  LOW  POWER-8  WATTS  MAXIMUM 

*  200NSEC  4116  RAMS 

*  FULL  DOCUMENTATION. 

*  ASSEMBLED  AND  TESTED  BOARDS  ARE 
GUARANTEED  FOR  ONE  YEAR  AND 
PURCHASE  PRICE  IS  FULLY  REFUNDABLE  IF 
BOARD  IS  RETURNED  UNDAMAGED  WITHIN 
14  DAYS. 

ASSEMBLED/ 
TESTED 

64KRAM J59S.00 

48KRAM $529.00 

32K  RAM S459.00 

16K  RAM 1389.00 


S100  MAINFRAME 
AND  CARD  CAGE  ...  Q 

*  W/  SOLID  FRONT  PANEL  .  .  S239.00~ 

*  W/  CUTOUTS  FOR  2  MINI-FLOPPIES  .  .  .  S239.00 

*  30  AMP  POWER  SUPPLY $119.00 

*  8  SLOT  MOTHERBOARD S149.00 

*  19  SLOT  MOTHERBOARD $199.00 


16K  MEMORY  EXPANSION  KIT 

ONLY  $58 
FOR  APPLE,  TRS-80  KEYBOARD,  EXIDY, 
AND  ALL  OTHER  16K  DYNAMIC  SYS- 
TEMS  USING   MK4116-3   OR  EQUIVALENT 
DEVICES. 

*  200  NSEC  ACCESS,  375  NSEC  CYCLE 

*  BURNED-IN  AND  FULLY  TESTED 

*  1  YR.  PARTS  REPLACEMENT 
GUARANTEE 

*  QTY.  DISCOUNTS  AVAILABLE 


VISTA  V-200  MINI-FLOPPY  SYSTEM 

S1 00  DOUBLE  DENSITY  CONTROLLER 
204  KBYTE  CAPACITY  FLOPPY  DISK 
DRIVE  WITH  CASE  &  POWER  SUPPLY 
MODIFIED  CPM  OPERATING  SYSTEM 
WITH  EXTENDED  BASIC 
$695.00 


COmPUTER    DEVICES 

I230  W.COUirU    AVE. 

ORRDGE,     CA   92668 

(714)633-7280 


>  tax.  Mastercharge 
''lys  lor  checks  to 
.  Shipping  charges 


32K  BYTE  MEMORY 

RELIABLE/COST  EFFECTIVE  EXPANDABLE  RAM  FOR 

6602  AND  6800  SYSTEM-AIM  65-'KIM'SYM'PET'S44-BUS 

»  PLUG  COMPATIBLE  WITH  THE  AIM-65/SYM  EXPANSION 
CONNECTOR  BY  USING  A  RIGHT  ANGLE  CONNECTOR 
(SUPPLIED!  MOUNTED  ON  THE  BACK  OF  THE  MEMORY 
BOARD. 

.  MEMORY  BOARD  EDGE  CONNECTOR  PLUGS  INTO  THE 
6800  S  44  BUS. 

«  CONNECTS  TO  PET  OR  KIM  USING  AN  ADAPTOR  CABLE 

•  RELIABLE-DYNAMIC  RAM  WITH  ON  BOARD  INVISIBLE 
REFRESH-LOOKS  LIKE  STATIC  MEMORY  BUT  AT 
LOWER  COST  AND  A  FRACTION  OF  THE  POWER 
REOUIRED  FOR  STATIC  BOARDS. 

»  USES  +5V  ONLY,  SUPPLIED  FROM  HOST  COMPUTER. 

♦  FULL  DOCUMENTATION.  ASSEMBLED  AND  TESTED 
BOARDS  ARE  GUARANTEED  FOR  ONE  YEAR  AND 
PURCHASE  PRICE  IS  FULLY  REFUNDABLE  IF  BOARD  IS 
RETURNED  UNDAMAGED  WITHIN  14  DAYS. 

ASSEMBLED    WITH  32K  RAM  $395.00 

S  WITH  16K  RAM $339.00 

TESTED       WITHOUT  RAM  CHIPS $279.00 

HARD  TO  GET  PARTS  (NO  RAM  CHIPS) 

WITH  BOARD  AND  MANUAL        $109  00 

BARE  BOARDS  MANUAL     $49.00 


PET  INTERFACE  KIT-CONNECTS  THE  32K  RAM  BOARD  TO 
A  4K  OR  8K  PET.  CONTAINS:  INTERFACE  CABLE,  BOARD 
STANDOFFS,  POWER  SUPPLY  MODIFICATION  KIT  AND 
COMPLETE  INSTRUCTIONS (49.00 


U.S.  PRICES  ONLY 


W  Portable  Oscilloscopes 


^ 


15  MHz  Triggered  Miniscope  Model  MS-15 

15  MHz  Dual  Trace  Triggered  Miniscope 

Model  MS-215 

30  MHz  Dual  Trace  Triggered  Miniscope 

Model  MS-230 


■fe. 


New  Touch/Test  20  Multimeter 

™   A  portable/bench-type  meter  than  tests  and  measures  10 
electrical  parameters,  20  functions  &  45  ranges. 

MEASURES:  FEATURES 

■  AC  and  DC  Voltage  ■  AC  and  DC  ■  Touch  selection  and  control  of 
Current  ■  Resistance  ■  Temperature,  functions,  ranges  and  power.  ■  Large 
°C  &  °F  ■  Conductance  ■  Capacitance  (0.55"  high)  LED  readout.  ■  In-circuit 

■  Performs  diode/transistor  test  capabilities.  ■  Size:  2.9"  H  x  6.4" 
and  continuity  tests  W  x  7.5"  D.  ■  Weighs  less  than  3  lbs. 

Order  with  Confidence  and  get  the  Fordham  Advantage! 

ourprices  TOLL  FREE 


£ 


(800)645-9518 

l"  *       ,n  M  V    Statp  rail  f51  fil  75?-n05n 


n  NY   State  call  (516)  752-0050 


855  Conklin  St.  Farmingdale,  N.Y.  11735 


■JjM  ■  Master  Charge 
VtSA'      ■  BankAmericard 

■  VISA  ■  COD 

■  Money  Order 

■  Check 
COD's  extra 


5 


388        BYTE  November  1980 


Circle  322  on  Inquiry  card. 


The  Supermarket  for  TRS-80 
Add-on  Components 

In  stock  now.  Immediate  delivery. 


* 


(and  other  computers,  too) 


The  Vista  V-80/800/8000 
Family  Disk  Drive  System 

•  Fully  compatible  with 
TRS-80.  Heath/Zenith 

•  120  Day  Warranty 

•  40  Track  Patch  at 
NO  CHARGE 


V-80  Single  drive  system   (102K)    $395.00 

V-80  Two  drive  system  (204K)    $  770.00 

V-800  Single  drive,  B52  Drive  (204K)    ....  $505.00 

V-800-2  Double  drive.  B52  Drives  (408K)  $1175.00 

V-8000  Single  drive.  B92  Drive  (408K)    ...  $  775.00 

V-8000-2  Double  drive  B92  Drives  (816K)  $1450.00 


Vista's  Add  on  Drives  for  Apple' 

Speed  .  Capacity  .  Price 

More  tor  Lets 

30  to  60%  cheaper  per  byte 
From  20  to  400%  more  capacity 
Twice  as  fast 
Compatible  with  Pascal 
Warranty  120  days 


The  VISTA  Model  II 

•  Provides  one,  two  or 
three  drives. 

•  Adds  up  to  1.5  million 
bytes  of  on-line  storage. 

•  120  day  warranty 

•  Does  everything  Radio 
Shack's  expansion 
system  will  do.  .  .  for  less! 


$  900.00       Single  drive  (non-expandable) 
$1000.00       Single  drive 

Expansion  System 
$1550.00       Two  drive  Expansion  System 
$2100.00       Three  drive  Expansion  System 
S  525.00       Additional  drives  alone 


Printers 


Vlata  V300   

Daisy  wheel 
Letter  quality 

Base  2  Printer  

Variable  line  spacing  control 
0  to  64  dots  in  half  dot  increments 
100  cps  —  six  densities 
Standard  96  character  ASCII 
Up  to  10  character  fonts 

Anadax  DP8000  $895.00 

9x7  dot  matrix 
80  column  (112  cps) 

vista  Printer    $745.00 

5x7  dot  matrix 
80  column  (125cps) 

Add  On  Drives 


$1895.00 


$575.00  (includes:  2-K  Buffer, 
graphics,  high  speed  tractor  feed) 


The  Vista 
MUSIC 
MACHINE  9 


WITH  9  VOICES! 

•  NEWI  Uses  latest  State  of  the  Art  LSI  Technology. 

•  Requires  only  one  slot  for  9  voices! 

•  Uses  three  Ay3-8910's  to  produce  nine  voices 
(Other  competitive  models  have  only  3  voices). 

•  Simulates  three  ALF  Boards. 

•  Plays  music  generated  by  the  ALF  Board. 

•  APPLE'"  II  compatible. 

•  ALF™  software  required. 


MP!  B51 
MPI  B52 
Siemens 
Siemens 
Shugart 


40  Track,  Double 

Density-204K    $275.00 

Dual  Head,  Double 

Density-408K    $375.00 

FDD100-5  40  Track  Double 

Density  204K    $275.00 

FDD100-8  8"  Single 

Sided  Drive   $448.00 

801 R  Single  Sided  Drive   $448.00 


Other  Products 


1.  VISTA  Verbatim  diskettes  (hard  or  soft  sector)  Certified 
40  track   

2.  16K  RPM  upgrade  kits,  guaranteed  for  120  days. 
PRIME  PRODUCT    

3.  NEW!  DOS  •    

4.  LNW  expansion  bare  board    

5.  H.C.  Pennington  book.  TRS-80  Disk  and  Other 
Mysteries     

6.  DDT  Disco-Tech  disk  drive  timer   


$  38.95 

$  59.95 
$110.00 
$  66.95 

$  18.95 
$  19.95 


The  VISTA  V-200  for  Exidy, 

•  Completely  packaged  system,  tested  and  ready  to  plug  in,  includes: 
power  supply,  two  40  track  drives,  case,  controller,  all  cabling  and 
total  CPM  documentation. 

•  Storage  capacity  from  400K  to  1.2  meg. 

•  System  software-VISTA  CP/M  Disk  Operating  System  and  BASIC-E  Compiler 
recorded  on  5-1/4"  diskettes. 

Price:  Starting  as  low  as  $1199.00 


2^ 


CALL  TOLL-FREE  800-854-8017 


•TRS-80  is  a  registered  trademark  of  Radio  Shack 


The  Vista  Computer  Company  1401  Borchard  Street  •Santa  Ana,  California  92705  •714/953-0523 


Circle  323  on  Inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


389 


Circle  324  on  inquiry  card. 


CMOS  [DIODE  CLAMPED) 


1  35  TMS404S  1\ 
1.95  250NSST 
B.95    82S23  - 


82S129  - 
82S126  - 
S3S131  - 


2101-1254  *  4  STATIC 
fDITSl  FLOPPY  DISC 

CONTROLLER  - 
MM027  34K   •   10YN.I2- 
MK4096  11K  ■    1DYN.HA 


DATELS  DAC-08BC  -  8  bit  DAC  -  S9.95 


8"  DISKETTES  -  HARD  SECTOR 
$1,75, 10/$1 6.00 


CRYSTALS  $3.45 

2  000  MHz 
4  000  MHz 
3.000  MHz 

3  57  MHz 
5.000  MHz 
6  000  MHz 


8.000MHz 
10.000  MHz 
18.000  MHz 
20.000  MHz 


RIBBON  CABLE 

FLAT  (COLOR  CODED] 

#30  WIRE 


50cond.  -  .90/ per  foot 


RS232 
CONNECTORS 


DB25Pmale S3.25 

D6  25S  female  ...  S4.25 
HOODS SI.  50 


PRINTED  CIRCUIT  BOARD 


x  6"  DOUBLE  SIDED  EPOXY  BOARD  1  /1 6"  thick 
0ea 5/S2.60 


EPOXY  giass  vector  boafd 

1  /1 6"  thick  with  1  /1 0"  spacing    454"  X  856" 


74S00 
74S02 
74S05 
74S08 
74S11 
74S15 


.30  74S20     - 

.30  74S30     - 

.45  74S32     - 

,40  74S89     - 

.35  74S112  - 

.40  74S140  - 


.40  74S153  - 

.40  74S151   - 

.40  74S157  - 

1.90  74S158  - 

.85  74S174  - 

1.00  74S257  - 


7  WATT  LD  65  LASER  DIODE  IR  $8.95 


25  watt  Infra  Red  Pulse  (SG  2006  equiv.) 

Laser  Diode  ISpec  sheet  included)  S24.95 

MINIATURE  MULTI-TURN  TRIM  POTS 
100,  5K,,OK,20K,250K.      ...      S.75  each  ...  3/2.00 

2N3820PFET $ 

2N5457NFET $    45 

2N2646  UJT $    45 

ER  900  TRIGGER  DIODES 4/S1  00 

2N  6028  PROG.  UJT $  .65 

FP  100  PHOTO  TRANS «    50 

RED,  YELLOW  OR  GEEN  LARGE  LED's.     2" 6/S1  00 

RED/GREEN  BIPOLAR  LED's $    55 

MLED92RLEO 5   '?5 

MRD14B  PHOTO  DARLXTOR S    75 

~L-118  0PTO-ISOLATOR S    75 

5  OPTO-ISOLATOR $80 

1  WATTZENERS:  3.3,4.7,5.1,5.6  68  82  9  1    10 

1 2,  1 5,  1 8,  or  22V '...'...  6/S1 ,00 

100,5K,10K,20K,250K,$.75each 3/2.00 

SFC  3301  -  50PRV  30A  FAST  RECOVERY  DIODE  (35nsl  $2.25 


Silicon  Power  Rectifiers 


200PRV  1ALASCR     .95 


FCS  8024    4  digit 
C.C.  8"  display 
FND  503  C.C.  .5" 
FND510C.A.  .5" 
DL-704-.3"  C.C. 


LED  READOUTS 

$5.95  DL-707C.A.  .3" 

$   .85  DL747C.A.  6" 

$   .85  HP3400.8"CA 

$  .85  HP3405.8"CC 


12A       50A 


125A      240A 


1.50        6.50       9.60 


1.00       2.50      10.50      16.50 


-45       1 .25       3T00      1Z50~     2000" 


IN  4148  (IN914) 15/51.00 

.1  or  .01  uf  25V  ceramic  disc,  caps.    16/$1.00, 100/S50.00 


TRANSISTOR  SPECIALS 

2N1303PNPGETO5  3ft 

2N1307PNPGETOS 

2N404A  PNP  G£  TO  6  jW 

HEPG6014      PNPGET03  t 

TIP121       NPNS.SIVHI.HING  t 

:;Nix's3  \pn:.:-i-ii-  m;  power  » 

MRFB004aCHR'  T3ASSIST0RNPN  ,    $ 

2N3772NPNS'TOS  « 

2N4908PNPS-TO3 . 

2N5036PNPSiTO92  4/1 

2N3137NPNSiRF  $ 

2N39i9NPMSiT03Rr  $ 

2N1420NPNSiTr>$      .      31* 

3N3767NPNS.  T066  $ 

2N2222NPNS.  '018                     ....  6.S 

2N305B  NPN  Si  TO-3   ,.  | 

2N3904  NPN  S  TO-92 6/8 

2N3906PNPS.  T092  »*' 

2N5296  NPN  S.  TO  2?0  S 

2N6109PNPS  TO-220   ...  $ 

2N1309PNPGETOS  s 

TIP31BNPNS-TO220  $ 

TIP328PNPSiTO230  $ 


3*111' 

PRV 

2A 

6A 

25A 

100 

1.40 

200 

.80 

1.30 

2.20 

400 

1.00 

1.65 

3  30 

600 

1  30 

1.90 

4.40 

7408  - 
7409- 
7410- 


7420- 
7425- 
7426- 


REGULATORS 

LM317T $2.50 

323K-5V3A $5.75 

79HGKC-5Vat5A   .  .6.95 


340K-12,15or  24V. $1.50 
340T-5,  6,  8,  1 2,  1 5 

)8or24V $1.10 

320M5 

LAS1412  +  12V3A  $3.95 


TTLIC  SERIES 

7448     -  75 

74b0  -  .17 

7472  -  .35 

7473  -  .35 

7474  -  .42 

7475  -  .49 

7476  -  .45 
74B0  -  .45 
7483-  .60 
7485  -  .75 


7495  - 
7496- 
74107  - 
74121  - 
74122- 
74123  - 

74125  - 

74126  - 


74151  - 
74153  - 
75154        1 


74197    - 

74279 

74325 

74365 

74367 

74368 

75491 


TTL  REED  RELAY  -  SPST  5V  20ma  I 


MM5387AA   CLOCK  CHIPS   $5.95 

MM5314 $4.75 

MM5316 $4.95 


DIP  SOCKETS 

SPIN  .17  22PIN   .30 

14  PIN  .20  24  PIN 

16  PIN  .22  28  PIN     .40 

18  PIN  .25  40P1N 


SANKEN  AUDIO  POWER  AMPS 

Si  1010  G  10  WATTS $750 

Si  1 020 G 20 WATTS $1375 

Si  1 050  G  50  WATTS $26  90 


TANTULUM  CAPACITORS 


NO.  30  WIRE  WRAP  WIRE  SINGLE  STRAND 


.22UF35V 
.47UF35V 
.68UF35V 
1 UF  35V 
2.2UF  20V 
3.3UF  20V 


5/S1.00 
5/S1.00 
5/$  1.00 
5/$1 .00 
5'/i$1.00 
4/$ 1.00 


4.7UF15V 

6.8UF35V 

15UF16V 

30UF6V 

33UF20V 

100UF15V 

150UF15V 


5/S1.00 
4/$ 1.00 
3/$  1,00 
5/S1.00 
$  .60 
$   .70 


36  74LS162 

.16  74LS163  - 

30  74LS164  - 

45  74LS168  - 


lineah  Circuits 


LM308 


m 


CALIFORNIA  COMPUTER  SYSTEMS 

16K  RAM  BOARD.  Fully  buffered  addressable  in  4K 
blocks.  IEEE  sfandard  for  bank -addressing  2114's. 

PCBD       $28.95  Kit    450    NSEC         $249.95 

PT-1  PROTO  BOARD.  Over  2,600  holes  4"  regula- 
tors. All  S-100  buss  functions  labeled,  gold  fingers. 
PCBD $2~8.95 

PT-2  PROTO  BOARD.  Similar  to  PT-1  except  set- 
up to  handle  solder  tail  sockets.  PCBD        $28  95 

CCS  MAIN  FRAME.  Kit  (S-100)  $339.95 

APPLE    EXTENDER.    Kit $22.95 

APPLE     IEEE     INSTRUMENTATION     INTERFACE 
KIT  7490.   Kit $275.00 

ARITHMETIC   PROCESSOR   FOR  APPLE   7811A. 
Kit $350.00 

APPLE    ASYNCHRONOUS    SERIAL    INTERFACE 
7710A.     Kit $89.95 

APPLE    SYNCHRONOUS    SERIAL 
7712A.    Kit       ... 

ALL    OTHER    CCS 


INTERFACE 

$89.95 

PRODUCTS    AVAILABLE 


///7 


PB-1  2708  &  2716  Programming  Board  with  pro- 
visions for  4K  or  8K  EPROM.  No  external  supplies 
required.   Textool    sockets.    Kit $143.00 

CB-1A  8080  Processor  Board.  2K  of  PROM  256 
BYTE  RAM  power  pn/rest  Vector  Jump  Parallel 
port  with  status.  Kit     .  $146.00   PCBD  $31.95 

VB-3  80x24  VIDEO  BOARD.  Graphics  included. 
4MHZ  $379.95 

IO-4  Two   serial    I/O   ports  with   full    handshaking 
20/60  ma  current  loop:  Two  parallel   I/O  ports. 
Kit     $168.00     PCBD     $31.95 

VB-IC  64  x  16  video  board,  upper  lower  case  Greek 
composite  and  parallel  video  with  software,  S-100. 
Kit     $143.00 

CB-2   Z80   CPU    BOARD.    Kit   $199.95 

AIO   APPLE   SERIAL/PARALLEL  $144.95 

ALL  OTHER   SSM    PRODUCTS   AVAILABLE 


W7T7C 


inc.       WAMECO  INC. 


FDC-1  FLOPPY  CONTROLLER  BOARD  will  drive 
shugart,  pertek,  remic  5"  &  8"  drives  up  to  8  drives, 
on  board  PROM  with  power  boot  up,  will  operate 

with  CPM™  (not  included).    PCBD     $43.95 

FPB-1  Front  Panel.  IMSAI  size,  hex  displays.  Byte, 
or  instruction  single  step.    PCBD  ...$48.50 

MEM-1A   8Kx8   fully   buffered,   S-100,   uses   2102 

type  rams.  PCBD $28.95 

QM-12  MOTHER  BOARD,  13  slot,  terminated,  S-100 

board   only $39.95 

CPU-1   8080A  Processor  board  S-100  with  8  level 

vector   interrupt.  PCBD $28.95 

RTC-1  Realtime  clock  board.  Two  independent  in- 
terrupts. Software  programmable.  PCBD $25.95 

EPM-1   1702A  4K  Eprom  card.  PCBD  $25.95 

EPM-2  2708/2716  16K/32K  EPROM   CARD. 

PCBD $28.95 

QM-9  MOTHER  BOARD.  Short  Version  of  QM-12. 

9  Slots.  PCBD ....$33.95 

MEM-2   16Kx8   Fully   Buffered  2114  Board. 

PCBD $28.95 

PTB-1  POWER  SUPPLY  AND  TERMINATOR  BOARD. 

PCBD     .. $28.95 

IOB-1   SERIAL  AND  PARALLEL  INTERFACE. 

2  parallel,  one  serial  and  cassette. 

PCBD $28.95 


2708 
2716 


$7.50 
$25.95 


2114L   450    NSEC $4.99 

2114L   200    NSEC   $5.99 


M 


(415)  726-7593 
P.O.  Box  955  •  El  Granada,  CA  94018 

Please  send  for  IC,  Xistor  and  Computer  parts  list 


NOV.  SPECIAL  SALE 
ON   PREPAID  ORDERS 

(Charge  cards  not  included  on  this  offer) 

WAMECO  AND  MIKOS  PARTS  SALE. 

10%  off  on  Wameco  PCBD  with  Mikos  parts 
assortments. 

MIKOS  PARTS  ASSORTMENT 
WITH    WAMECO    AND    CYBERCOM    PCBDS 

MEM-2  with  MIKOS   =  7  16K  ram 

with    L2114   450    NSEC    $229.95 

MEM-2  with  MIKOS  -13  16K  ram 

with   L2114   200   NSEC   $249.95 

CPU-1   with  MIKOS    =2  8080A  CPU   $99.95 

QM-12  with  MIKOS  =  4  13  slot  mother 

board $1 1  0.95 

RTC-1  with  MIKOS  =  5  real  time  clock $65.95 

EMP-1  with  MIKOS  ;10  4K  1702  less 

EPROMS    $  49.95 

EPM-2  with  MIKOS  =11    16-32K  EPROMS 

less   EPROMS $65.95 

QM-9  with  MIKOS  c12  9  slot  mother 

board $99.95 

FPB-1   with  MIKOS   =14  all  parts 

for  front  panel $144.95 

MIKOS  PARTS  ASSORTMENTS  ARE  ALL  FACTORY  MARKED 
PARTS.  KITS  INCLUDE  ALL  PARTS  LISTED  AS  REQUIRED 
FOR  THE  COMPLETE  KIT  LESS  PARTS  LISTED.  ALL  SOCK- 
ETS    INCLUDED. 

LARGE  SELECTION  OF  LS  TTL  AVAILABLE 

PURCHASE  S50.00  WORTH  OF  LS  TTL  AND  GET 
10c'o  CREDIT  TOWARD  ADDITIONAL  PURCHASES. 
PREPAID  ORDERS  ONLY 

VISA  or  MASTERCHARGE.  Send  account  number,  interbank  num- 
ber, expiration  date  and  sign  your  order.  Approx.  postage  will 
be  added.  Check  or  money  order  will  be  sent  post  paid  in  U.S. 
If  you  are  not  a  regular  customer,  please  use  charge,  cashier's 
check  or  postal  money  order.  Otherwise  there  will  be  a  two- 
week  delay  for  checks  to  clear.  Calif,  residents  add  6%  tax. 
Money  back  30-day  guarantee.  We  cannot  accept  returned  IC's 
that  have  been  soldered  to.  Prices  subject  to  change  without 
notice.  $10  minimum  order.  $1.50  service  charge  on  orders 
less  than  $10.00. 


390        BYTE  November  1980 


Circle  325  on  Inquiry  card. 


"Computers  '  R'  us" 

A  CONSUMER  COMPUTERS  SUBSIDIARY 

UNBEATABLE  MAIL  ORDER  DISCOUNTS 


'apple  computer 

Authorized  Dealer 


*925 


FOR 


16K 


[cippkz// 

APPLE 


OR  APPLE 


48K 

FOR  ONLY 

*1049 

PLUS 


APPLE  COMPUTER 
PERIPHERALS 

DISK  II  DRIVE  1  CONTROLLER  card 485 

DISK  II  DRIVE  ONLY 425 

GRAPHICS  TABLET 655 

SILENTYPE  PRINTER  w/int.  card 515 

SSM  AIO  SERIAL/PARALLEL  kit 155 

SSM  AIO  assembled  t  tested 190 

SYMTEC  LIGHT  PEN  SYSTEM 215 

SYMTEC  SUPER  SOUND  GENERATOR.  .225 
SVA  8  INCH  DISK  CONTROLLER  CARD. 335 
VERSA  WRITER  DIGITIZER  SYSTEM  ...  .215 
VIDEX  VIDEOTERM  80  COLUMN  CARD. 315 
VIDEX  VIDEOTERM  w/graphics  ROM. .  .  .335 

LOBO  DISK  DRIVE  ONLY 385 

LOBO  DRIVE  w/controller  card 485 

DC  HAYES  MICROMODEM  II 319 

DAN  PAYMAR  lower  case  kit 55 

APPLE  COMPUTER 
INTERFACE  CARDS 

PARALLEL  PRINTER  Int.  card 145 

COMMUNICATION  CABDw/conn.  cable.  185 

HI  SPEED  SERIAL  Int.  card 145 

LANGUAGE  SYSTEM  with  PASCAL 425 

CENTRONICS  PRINTER  Int.  card 185 

APPLESOFT  II  FIRMWARE  card 149 

INTEGER  BASIC  FIRMWARE  card 149 

MOUNTAIN  HARDWARE 

ACCESSORIES 

A  Division  Of 

Mountain  Computer 

APPLE  CLOCK/CALENDAR  card 225 

SUPERTALKER  SD200  SPEECH 

SYNTHISIZER  SYSTEM 245 

ROMPLUS  w/keyboard  filter 165 

INTROUX  10  BSR  REMOTE  CONTROL 

SYSTEM 245 

INTROUX  10  controller  card  only 165 

ROMWRITER  SYSTEM 155 

MUSIC  SYSTEMI16  voices/stereo) 465 

A/D-D/A  16  CHANNELS 319 

EXPANSION  CHASSIS  18  slotsl 555 


APPLE  ADD-ONS 

CORVUS  10  MEGABYTE  HARD  DISK 

DRIVE  SYSTEMw/pwr  supply 4395 

CORVUS  CONSTELLATION 595 

16K  MEMORY  UPGRADE  KIT 

(TRS-80,  APPLE  II.  SORCERERI 60 

ABT  NUMERIC  INPUT  KEYPAD 

(specify  old  or  new  kybrd) 115 

ALF  MUSIC  SYNTHISIZER 235 

BRIGHTPEN  LIGHTPEN 32 

GPIB  IEEE  488  119781  Int 259 

ARITHMETIC  PROCESSOR  card 335 

SPEECHLINK  2000  164  Word  Vocab.l 215 

M»R  SUP-R-MOD  TV  MODULATOR 30 

MICROSOFT  Z80  SOFTCARD  SYSTEM 

w/CP/M  4  MICROSOFT  BASIC 299 

MICROWORKS  DS  65  DIGISECTOR 339 

LAZE  R  lower  case  adapter 50 


APPLE  II  or  APPLE  II  PLUS 
SOFTWARE 

PASCAL  with  LANGUAGE  SYSTEM 425 

FORTRAN  for  use  with  LANGUAGE 

SYSTEM 165 

CP/M  for  use  with  MICROSOFT 

Z-80  SOFTCARD  llncl.l 299 

DOS  3.3 49 

THE  CONTROLLER  General  Business 

System 519 

THE  CASHIER  Retail  Management  t 

Inventory  System 199 

APPLEWRITER  Word  Processor 65 

APPLEPOST  MAILING  list  system 45 

APPLEPLOT  Graph  I  Plot  Sytem 60 

DOW  JONES  PORTFOLIO  EVALUATOR. ...  45 
APPLE  CONTRIBUTED  VOLUMES 

1  thru  5  w/manuals 30 

VISI  CALC  by  PERSONAL  SOFTWARE.  ...  120 
DESKTOP/PLAN  by  DESKTOP 

COMPUTERS 85 

CCA  DATA  MANAGEMENT  SYSTEM 

By  PERSONAL  SOFTWARE 85 

APPLEBUG  ASSEMBLER/DISASSEMBLER.  75 
APPLE  DOS  TOOL  KIT 65 


PMC-80 

COMPLETELY  COMPATIBLE  WITH  RADIO 
SHACK  TRS-80  LEVEL  II  SOFTWARE 
AND  PERIPHERALS. 

Features  Include: 

Level  II  BASIC  40  pin  interface  conn. 

Video  8  Ch.  3  TV  OUT.    16K  User  RAM  Memory 

Quilt  in  Cassette  Expandable  to  48K 

For  more  information,  please  call  or  write. 


THE  TRS-80  WORK-ALIKE' 
16K  LEVEL  II  ONLY $579 


FOR 


ATARI  800 

PERSONAL  COMPUTER  SYSTEM 


ATARI  ACCESSORIES 

400  COMPUTER 479 

820  PRINTER  (40  col) 459 

810  DISK  DRIVE 559 

410  Program  Recorder 59 

815  DUAL  DISK  DRIVE 1199 

822  THERMAL  PRINTER  (40  coll 369 

825  PRINTER  (80  col.  imp.l 795 

850  INTERFACE  MODULE 175 

ATARI  16K  RAM  MODULE 155 


16K 

#$969 

32  K 

$1049 

48K 

$1099 


SORCERER 
COMPUTER 


S-100  EXPANSION  UNIT 375 

WORD  PROCESSING  PAC 179 

DEVELOPMENT  PAC 89 

LEEDEX  VIDEO  100 129 

SANYO  9"  BtW 165 

SANYO  15"  B*W 245 

PANACOLOR  10"  COLOR 329 

ZENITH  13"  COLOR 399 


* 


129 


LEEDEX 
VIDEO  100 


IN  CALIFORNIA.  OR  FOR  BACKORDER 

OR  TECHNICAL  INFO  CALL 
(714)  698-8088 


TOLL  FREE  ORDER  LINE  \  '800-854-6654 

CREDIT  CARD  USERS  PLEASE  READ  TERMS  OF  SALE  IN  ORDERING  INFORMATION 


Challenger 

OHIO  SCIENTIFIC 

C1P  MOD  2 429 

C4P 399 

C4PMF  (1  disk  drive) 1589 

AC-16P  JOYSTICKS  (2) 39 

ATV  RF  TV  MODULATOR 35 


699 


C4P 

8K  ROM  BASIC 

8K  RAM  EXPANDABLE  TO  96K 

32x64  UPPER  1  LOWER  CASE 

256x512  GRAPHICS  POINTS 

PROGRAMMABLE  TONES 

ANALOG  INPUTS 


J429 


CIP  MOD  II 

8K  ROM  BASIC 
8K  RAM  EXPANDABLE  TO  32K 

COLOR  EXPANSION 
48  LINE  DISPLAY  EXPANSION 


PRINTERS 


ANADEX  DP  8000 775 

ANADEX  DP  9600 1350 

BASE  2 

CENTRONICS  737 825  | 

MPI  88-T 

PAPER  TIGER  IDS  440 

w/graphics I 

NEC  SPINWRITER 2550  I 

TRENDCOM  200 519  I 

SILENTYPE  w/Int 515  I 

EPSON  TX  80  w/graphics 729  I 

EPSON  MX  80  132  col 620 


•FAST  DELIVERY 
•LOW  PRICES 
•COURTEOUS  SERVICE 
•KNOWLEDGEABLE  STAFF 
•LARGE  VARIETY 


ORDERING  INFORMATION:  Phone  Orders  Invited  using  VISA,  MASTERCARD,  AMERICAN  EXPRESS,  or  bank  wire  transfers.  VISA  &  MC  credit  card  service  charge  of  2%,  AE  credit 
card  service  charge  of  5%.  Mail  orders  may  send  charge  card  number  (include  expiration  date),  cashier's  check,  money  order  or  personal  check  (allow  10  business  days  to  clear.) 
Please  Include  a  telephone  number  with  all  orders.  Foreign  orders  (excluding  Military  PO's)  add  10%  for  shipping  and  all  funds  must  be  in  US  dollars.  Shipping,  handling  and  In- 
surance in  U.S.  add  3%.  California  residents  add  6%  sales  tax.  Our  low  margins  prohibit  us  to  send  COD  or  on  account.  All  equipment  subject  to  price  change  and  availability. 
Equipment  is  new  and  complete  with  manufacturer  warranty.  We  ship  most  orders  within  2  days.  Order  desk  hours  are  Monday  thru  Saturday  9-5  PST.  Send  for  FREE  1981  Catalog. 
WE  ARE  A  MEMBER  OF  THE  BETTER  BUSINESS  BUREAU  AND  THE  CHAMBER  OF  COMMERCE  RETAIL  STORE  PRICES  MAY  DIFFER  FROM  MAIL  ORDER  PRICES. 

PLEASE  SEND  ORDERS  TO:  CONSUMER  COMPUTERS  MAIL  ORDER  CRU  Division     831 4  PARKWAY  DRIVE,  GROSSMONT  SHOPPING  CENTER  NORTH.  LA  MESA.  CALIFORNIA  92041 


Circle  326  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  327  on  inquiry  card. 


At  last.., the 

Typewriter  Interface! 


Turn  your  electric  typewriter  into  a  low  cost,  high 
quality  hard  copy  printer.   1  Year  Warranty 

Dynatyper— the  patented*  RDI— I/O  Pak  is  fast  becoming  the  industry 
standard  for  typewriter  output.  Why?  Because: 

1.  It  takes  2  minutes  to  initially  install  and  5  seconds  to  remove  or 
replace. 

2.  You  do  not  have  to  modify  your  typewriter.  All  factory  warranties 
and  maintenance  agreements  on  your  typewriter  will  be  honored. 

3.  You  can  use  it  with  all  powered  carriage  return  typewriters  that 
have  U.S.  keyboard.  Our  Model  I  works  with  all  non  Selectrics  and 
our  Model  II  works  with  Selectrics.  Conversion  between  models 
takes  2  minutes  and  the  kit  (26  plungers)  is  available  for  a  nominal 
charge. 

4.  You  don't  have  to  lug  around  a  bulky  printer  when  you  travel.  If 
there  is  a  typewriter  at  your  destination,  you  can  install  the  light 
(3  lbs.)  I/O  Pak  in  just  2  minutes. 

5.  Same  interface  for  TRS-80,  Apple  and  GPIB.  Centronics  and  Pet 
compatible  interfaces  are  available  in  third  quarter  1980.  Electric 
pencil  available. 

6.  Delivery:  Stock  to  two  weeks.  Price:  $499.  for  the  complete  system, 
FOB  Rochester,  Domestic. 

Over  1000  in  operation  today.  VISA  and  MasterCard  accepted.  Call 
Ken  Yanicky  at  716-385-4336. 


•Potent  Pending 


3100  Monroe  Avenue,  Rochester,  New  York  14618 


incorporated 


The  TRS-80  I/O  solution 


The  COMM-80  is  the  only  interface  you 
need  to  turn  your  TRS-80  Level  I  or  II 
into  a  timesharing  terminal  with  provi- 
sions for  a  printer.  The  COMM-80 
combines  the  most  used  features  of  the 
RS  expansion  interface  in  a  low  cost 
unit  containing  a  built-in  RS-232-C  inter- 
face (50- 19,200  baud  software  select- 
able), a  full  8  bit  parallel  port  (34  pin 
edge  card  Centronics  compatible)  and  a 
TRS-BUS  connector  for  future,  expansion. 
Up  to  16  units  can  be  chained  together 
and  addressed  separately.  Interface 
your  TRS-80  to  all  standard  RS-232-C  de- 
vices including  modems,  CRT  Terminals, 
printers  and  other  computers.  Smart 
terminal  software  (will  run  in  4K)         f  AMMi ftfl 
is  included  at  no  extra  cost.  \kt\h#l   II   1     OV 

Assembled  and  tested  .. .    $179.95 

Includes  case,  power  supply,  ribbon 
cable,  parallel  printer  port,  serial 
port  and  TRS-BUS  connector  plus 
smart  terminal  software 
(please  specify  Level  I  or  II). 

NY  residents  add  7%  sales  tax. 

To  order  call  (516)374-6793 
or  write: 

The  MicroMint  Inc. 
917  Midway 
Woodmere,  NY  11598 
Dealer  inquiries 
invited. 


TRS-B0  is  trademark  ol  Tandy  Corp. 


EXECUPORTS 


80  Print  Position 


Quiet,  Portable,  Reliable, 
Versatile  Printing  Data 
Terminals 


FEATURES: 

•  Built-in  Acoustical  Coupler/Modem 

•  10,  15,  30  CPS 

•  Carrying  Case  f  'j 


80/136 

Print  Position 

Plotting 


,'.',',' 


Model  300 


Model  3000 


SPECIAL  PURCHASE  PRICES 
Remanufactured  Units 


Model  3000  $1,195 
(One  Year  Factory  Warranty) 


Model  300  $795 
(90  Day  Factory  Warranty) 

CALL  NOW  TO  ORDER 

Buy  Direct  From  The  Manufacturer  •  Maintenance  Contract  Available 

•  Immediate  Delivery  • 

Computer  Transceiver  Systems  Inc. 
East  66  Midland  Avenue  •  Paramus,  NJ  07652 
P.O.  Box  15  •  Phone:  (201)  261-6800 


392        BYTE  November  1980 


Circle  328  on  Inquiry  card. 


page 


PRE-CUT  WIRE  WRAP  WIRE 


Length     100/Bag    500/Bag     1K/Bag 


Length     100/Bag    500/Bag     1K/Bag 


Kit  No.  1 


$9.95 


Kit  No.  3 


$32.95 


2.5" 
3.0" 
3.5" 
4.0" 
4.5" 
5.0" 
5.5" 
6.0" 


51.25 
1.30 


37 
42 
48 
54 
58 
65 


$3.58 
3.86 
4.15 
4.44 
4.74 
5.04 
5.38 
5.66 


$ 


6.19 
6.78 
7.37 
7.94 
8.54 
9.13 
9.72 
10.31 


6.5 
7.0 
7.5 
8.0 
8.5 
9.0' 
9.5' 
10.0 


7.5" 

2.08 

8.0" 

2.14 

8.5" 

2.18 

$1.92 
1.99 
2.08 
2.14 
2.18 
2.24 
2.30 
2.39 


$6.44 
6.76 
7.07 
7.38 
7.69 
8.11 
8.32 
8.71 


$11.81 
12.44 
13.09 
13.73 
14.36 
15.01 
15.65 
16.28 


Kynar  precut  wire.  All  length's  are  overall,  including  1"  strip  on  each  end. 
Colors  and  lengths  cannot  be  mixed  for  quantity  pricing.  Choose  from  colors 
Red,  Blue,  Black,  Yellow,  White,  Green,  Orange,  and  Violet. 


250  3"  100 
250  3'/j"  100 
100   4"   100 


454" 

5" 
6" 


500  2V    500  4Vi' 

500  3"       500  5" 

500  3'/*"    500  5'/?' 

500  4"       500  6" 


Kit  No.  2 


$24.95 


Kit  No.  4 


$59.95 


250 
500 
500 
500 
250 


2%' 

3" 

3V2' 

4" 

4Vi' 


250 
100 
250 
100 
100 


5" 

5'/*' 

6" 

6'/*' 

7" 


1000  2%"  1000  4'/2' 

1000  3"  1000  5" 

1000  3'/2"  1000  5" 

1000  4"  1000  6" 


•   *  Truckload  SALE  •  • 


FREE  WIRE  KIT 

Kit  #  1  on  orders  over  $50 
Kit  #3  on  orders  over  $1 50 
Kit  #4  on  orders  over  $250 


RN  WIRE  WRAP 
IC  SOCKETS 

3-level  Gold 
Closed  Entry 
Design 

*  Sockets  sold  at  these 
prices  by  the  tube  only. 


Size  Quantity/Tube  Price  ea.'  Price/Tube 

08  pin  52  .39  $20.28 

14  30  .46  $13.80 

16  26  .50  $13.00 

18  23  .68  $15.64 

20  21  .85  $17.85 

22  19  .92  $17.48 

24  17  .94  $15.98 

28  15  1.23  $18.45 

40  10  1.60  $16.00 

Above  prices  include  gold  up  to  $800/oz 


IDC  CRIMP  STYLE  CONNECTORS 


Card  Edge  Connectors 


IDC  Sockets 


Cable  Plugs 


Right  Angle  Headers 


CABLE 


IDE  10 
IDE  20 
IDE  26 
IDE  34 
IDE  40 
IDE  50 


$3.25 
$3.50 
$4.05 
$4.85 
$5.65 
$5.90 


IDS  10 
IDS  20 
IDS  26 
IDS  34 
IDS  40 
IDS  50 


$1.25 
2.02 
2.65 
3.50 
4.05 
5.06 


IDP  14 
IDP16 
IDP  24 
IDP  40 


1.25 
1.40 
2.25 
3.65 


DB25 

Connectors 

Male         $4.95 

Female     $5.25 


Wire  Wrap 


IDH10WR 
IDH20WR 
IDH26WR 
IDH34WR 
IDH40WR 
IDH50WR 


1.75 
2.75 
3.60 
4.15 
4.90 
6.15 


Solder  Tail 

IDH10SR        .80 

IDH20SR 

IDH26SR 

IDS34SR 

IDH40SR 

IDH50SR 


1.25 
1.85 
2.15 
2.50 
3.15 


10 

2.90 

17.00 

14 

3.40 

23.80 

16 

3.70 

27.20 

20 

4.40 

34.00 

24 

5.00 

40.80 

26 

5.40 

44.20 

34 

6.80 

57.80 

40 

7.80 

68.00 

50 

9.50 

85.00 

ORDERING  INFORMATION 


Orders  under  $25  include  $2  handling. 
All  prepaid  orders  shipped  UPS  Ppd 
Visa,  MC  &  COD's  charged  shipping. 


All  prices  good  through  cover  date. 

Most  orders  shipped  next  day. 

Byte  must  be  mentioned  to  get  sale  prices. 


Call  or  Write  for  1980  Catalog: 

•  IC  Sockets 

•  Vector  Boards  &  Pins 

•  Bishop  Drafting  Aids 

•  OK  Tools 

•  RN  IDC  Crimp  Connectors 


OdSfG       1858  Evergreen,  Duarte,  California  91010  Phone  (213)  357-5005 


Circle  329  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980        393 


Circle  330  on  Inquiry  card. 


WAMECO 

THE  COMPLETE  PC  BOARD  HOUSE 
EVERYTHING  FOR  THE  S-100  BUSS 


•K  FPB-1A  FRONT  PANEL  BOARD  FOR  8080A  AND  Z80 
SYSTEMS  IMSAI    COMPATIBLE. 
PCBD    $56.95  KIT    $1  75.00 

■*  MEM-2  16K  RAM  2114s.  ADDRESSABLE  IN  4K 
BOUNDARIES. 
PCBD  ....  $33.95      KIT  (LESS  RAMS)    ...      $80.95 

•X-  EPM-2  16/32K  ROM  USES  2716  OR  2708.  ADDRESS- 
ABLE  IN  4K  BOUNDARIES. 
PCBD  ...  $33.95       KIT  (LESS  ROMS)   ....  $74.95 

•*  CPU-1  8080A  PROCESSOR   BOARD  WITH  VECTOR 
INTERRUPT. 
PCBD    $33.95  KIT    $124.95 

■*  IOB-1    I/O  BOARD.  ONE   SERIAL,  TWO   PARALLEL 
WITH    CASSETTE.  PCBD    $33.95 

■*  FDC-1A  FLOPPY  DISC  CONTROLLER  BOARD  USES 
1771.  PCBD    $45.95 


■*  QMB-12  13  SLOT  MOTHER  BOARD. 

PCBD    $42.95  KIT   $1 25.95 

•*  QMB-9  9  SLOT  MOTHER  BOARD. 

PCBD    $35.95  KIT    $1 09.95 

•*  PTB-1  POWER  SUPPLY  AND  TERMINATOR  BOARD. 
PCBD    $29.95  KIT   $49.95 

■*  RTC-1  REAL  TIME  CLOCK  BOARD  WITH  TWO 
INTERRUPTS. 
PCBD    $29.95  KIT    $79.95 

•*  MEM-1A    8K  RAM,  USES  2102's. 

PCBD    ....  $33.95         KIT  (LESS  RAM)    $71.95 

*•  EPM-1  4K  170Z  BOARD. 

PCBD $29.95         KIT  (LESS  ROM)    ....   $59.95 


FUTURE   PRODUCTS:  80  CHARACTER   VIDEO   BOARD. 
Z-80  CPU  BOARD  WITH  ROM,  8  PARALLEL  PORT  I/O  BOARD. 

DEALER  INQUIRIES  INVITED,  UNIVERSITY  DISCOUNTS  AVAILABLE 

AT  YOUR   LOCAL  DEALER 

MOST    PRODUCTS    FOR    IMMEDIATE    SHIPMENT.    NO    4-8    WEEK    DELAYS    REQUIRED    FOR    OTHERS. 


L 


W7J7C 


inc. 


WAMECO,    INC.,  P.O.   BOX   877    •    455   PLAZA   ALHAMBRA    •    EL  GRANADA.  CA  94018    •    (415)  726-6378 


BECKIAN  ENTERPRISES 


ALL  PRIME  QUALITY  -  NEW  PARTS  ONLY 
SATISFACTION  GUARANTEED. 


EDGE  CARD  CONNECTORS:  GOLD  PLATED: 

Abbreviations:  S/E  Solder  Eye  .  S/T  Sold  Tail:  W/W  Wire  Wrap. 


PART  »  DESCRIPTION.  Row  Sp 

BRAND:  TEXAS  INST. 

4070         50/100  Imsai/Crom.  .250 

4090         SOU 00  Imsai  WIW  .250 

BRAND:  SULLINS:  U.L  Rag. 

129165     501100  Solder  Eya  .140 

129870     501100  SIT  Imaai  .250 

129975     50/100  WIW  Inuai  .250 

1299S5     501100  SIT  Altair  .140 

129990     501100  S/T  Cram-am.  .250 


1  9pc.         10  24pcs.  25pcs.  Up. 


«3.95aa. 
4.30aa. 

E.SOaa. 

4.50aa. 

5.25 

4.95 

4.75 


$3.55oe.    $3.1 5oo. 
3.65aa.     3.45aa. 


OTHER  .125"  CONTACT  CTR  CONNECTORS: 
12305   22144  SIE  Na  Eara    .140     4.15 
12759   36172  SIT         .140     5.40 
12790   40180  WIW        .250     5.30 


.100"  CONTACT  CTR  CONNECTORS: 
10046   13126 


10280 
10175 
10160 
10190 
10465 
10490 
10500 
10535 
10540 
10550 
10565 
10605 
10596 
10615 


25I50 
20/40 
20I40 
20I40 
36I72 
36I72 
36I72 
40I80 
40/80 
40180 
43186 
43186 
43186 
43/66 


SIE  Na  Eara 

SIE  TRS  80 
SIE  TRS  66 
WIW  TRS  80 
SIT  TRS  90 
S/E  Vector 
WIE  Vector 
S/T  Vector 
SIE  PET 
WIW  PET 
SIT  PET 
S/E  COS/ELF 
S/T  C0SIELF 
WIW  COS/ELF 
S/T  COS/ELF 


140 
.140 
.140 
.200 
.140 
.140 
.290 
.140 
.140 
.200 
.140 
.140 
.140 
.200 
.200 


3.40 
4.50 
5.85 
3.30 
3.20 
5.50 
5.80 
5.70 
5.85 
6.60 
5.80 
6.95 
6.66 
6.96 
6.60 


6.1  Oaa. 

4-IOna. 

4.75 

4.45 

4.25 


3.75 
4.85 
5.65 


3.05 
4.05 
5.35 
3.00 
2.90 
4.90 
5.25 
4.20 
5.35 
5.40 
5.25 
6.25 
5.95 
6.20 
6.10 


5.45oa. 

3.70 

4.20 

3.95 

3.90 


3.35 
4.35 
5.00 


2.15 
3.60 
4.75 
2.15 
2.55 
4.40 
4.65 
4.66 
4.75 
4.80 
4.65 
5.55 
5.30 
5.95 
5.40 


.156"  CONTACT  CENTER  CONNECTORS. 

PART  It  DESCRIPTION.  Row  Sp. 

15105  6112  SIE  PETINSC  .140 

15110  6112  S/T  PETINSC  .140 

15137  6112  S/T  PETINSC  .266 

15175  61-  SIE  Sgla  Raw 

15270  10/20  SIE  .140 

15275  10120  S/T  .140 

15435  12124  SIE  PET  .140 

15440  12124  SIT  PET  .140 

15445  12124  S/T  PET  .200 

15505  15130  SIE  GRI  Key  .140 

15510  15130  S/T  GRI  Key  .140 

15515  15130  WIW  GRI  Key  .200 

15660  18138  SIE  .140 

15610  18136  S/T  .140 

15615  18136  WIW  .200 

15700  22144  SIE  KIMIVEC  .140 

15705  22144  SIT  KIMIVEC  .140 

15710  22I44  WIW  KIMIVEC  .200 

15875  25150  SIE  .140 

15680  25150  S/T  .140 

15685  25150  WIW  .200 

16115  36I72  SIE  .140 

16120  36172  SIT  .140 

16125  36172  WIW  .200 

16145  36172  S/T  .200 

16235  43/86  S/T  Mat  6860  .140 

16240  43186  WIW  Mot  6800    .200 

16260  43186  S/T  Mot  6800  .200 

16725  43/86  SIE  Mot  6960  .140 

K1  Pol-Keys 


1-9pc. 

•  1.80 
1.95 
1.90 
1.70 
2.15 
2.00 
2.50 
2.65 
2.75 
2.50 
2.40 
2.60 
3.35 
3.00 
3.60 
2.96 
3.98 
3.49 
4.85 
4.55 
4.95 
6.50 
6.55 
6.75 
6.50 
6.60 
7.80 
6.50 
7.20 
.15 


10-24pcs. 
61.05 

1.65 

1.54 

1.50 

1.95 

1.95 

2.35 

2.40 

2.50 

2.25 

2.15 

2.35 

3.05 

2.70 

3.20 

2.90 

3.30 

3.20 

4.20 

4.10 

4.35 

5.95 

5.90 

6.10 

5.95 

5.95 

7.05 

5.95 

6.50 
.12 


25pcs.  Up. 
11.45 

1.50 

1.45 

1.30 

1.70 

1.60 

2.10 

2.15 

2.20 

2.00 

2.95 

2.10 

2.70 

2.40 

2.90 

2.75 

3.00 

2.95 

3.75 

3.65 

3.90 

5.20 

5.25 

5.40 

5.20 

5.30 

6.25 

5.20 

5.75 
.10 


■D'  TVPE  SUBMINIATURE  CONNECTORS. 


PART  NUMBER      DESCRIPTION. 

DE  9P 
DE  9S 
DE     1109931 


DA  15P 

DA  15S 

DA  512111 

DA  512261 

DA  1165632 


Female 

2  pc.  Grey  Haod. 

Male 

Eomele 

1.  pc.  Grey  Hood 

2  pc.  Block  Hood 

2  pc.  Grey  Hood 


DB 

25P 

Male 

DB 

25S 

Female 

DB 

512121 

1  pc.  Grey  Haod 

DB 

51226-1 

2  pc.  Black  Hood 

DB 

1109633 

2  pc.  Grey  Hood 

DC 

37P 

Mala 

DC 

37S 

Female 

DC 

1109634 

2  pc.  Grey  Hood 

DD  50P 

OD  50S 

DD  512161 

OD  1109635 

0  204192 


Mole 
Femola 

1  pc.  Grey  Hood 

2  pc.  Grey  Hood 

Hardware  Set 
II  Hood  Satl 


1  9pcs. 

11.00ea. 
2.25ea. 
1.50aa. 

2.35aa. 
3.25aa. 
1.40ea. 

2.50b.. 
1.60ea. 

2.80ee. 
3.60aa. 
1.50aa. 
1.90ea. 
1.75oi. 

4.20aa. 
B.OOae. 
2.25ea. 

5.5000. 
9.40ea. 
2.40ea. 
2.60ea. 

.90ea. 


QUANTITY 
10-24pci. 

»1.40aa. 
2.00aa. 
1.35eo. 

2.1  Sea. 

3  lOoo. 
1.20aa. 
2.25oo. 
1.35eo. 

2.6000. 
3.40ea. 
1.30oo. 
1.65oe. 
I.SOee. 

400oo. 
5.7b«o. 
2.00eo. 

5.10oo. 
8.60ee. 
2.20ee. 
2.40aa. 


2599pca. 

$1.30eo. 
1.90ea. 
1.20ae. 

2.00ea. 
2.90ea. 
1.1 5ee. 
2.00oe. 
1.30ea. 

2.40u. 

3.20sa. 
1.1  Oaa. 
1.45ea. 

1.35oa. 

3.70ea. 
5.50ea. 

175es. 

4.75m. 
8.00ao. 
2.  OOee. 
2.10m. 

70ea. 


I.C.  SOCKETS  GOLD. 
WIWRAP  3  TURN 


14  pin 
16  pio 


$0.40  ea. 
0.44  aa. 


8080A  PRIME. 
»8.00  ee. 


EIA  8  CONDUCTOR  CABLES  8ft.  Long 
CLASS  m  Type  Cables. 

1.  to  4  pes.  122.00 

5  to  9  pea.  19.00 


I.C.  SOCKETS  TIN. 


14  pin 
16  pin 


SO. 15  eo. 
0.17  aa. 


CONNECTORS  FOR  CENTRONICS  700  SERIES 
Amphenol  57-30360 

S8.00  M. 


1  to  4  pes. 
5  to  9  pea. 


6.00  ••■ 


COOLING  FANS. 
Extra  Quiet. 


1  to  4 
5  to  9 


$18.00  ee. 

17.00  ee. 


PHONE:  213-988-6196 


MAIL  ORDERS  TO: 


TERMS:  MINIMUM  ORDER:  $15.00  ADD  SI. 35  For 
Handling  &  Shipping.  Orders  over  S30.00  in  the  U.S.A. 
We  Pay  the  Shipping.  CALIF.  RESIDENTS:  Please  Add 
6%  Sales  Tax. 

NOTE:  NO  COD.  OR  CREDIT  CARD  ORDERS  WILL  BE 
ACCEPTED. 

BECKIAN  ENTERPRISES 

P.O.  BOX  #3089 
SIMI  VALLEY,  CA  93063 


394        BYTE  November  1980 


Circle  331  on  inquiry  card. 


THE  STAR  MODEM 

From  Livermore  Data  Systems 


RS232  MODEM 
SALE  $135 

IEEE  488  MODEM 
SALES 


STAR  Modem  is  the  price  performance  leader  with  a  full 
2  YEAR  FACTORY  WARRANTY. 

FORTH  +     $60.00 

for  APPLE  or  PET/CBM 
A  full-featured  FORTH  with  enhancements.  Fast  and 
easy  to  use. 

•  conforms  to  FORTH  Interest  Group  Standards 

•  cross  compilier  to  produce  either  standard  object  modules  or 
self  contained  ROMable  modules 

•  built  in  macro  conditional  assembler 

•  complete  string  processing  capabilities  (including  variable 
length  strings) 

•  disk  virtual  memory  for  large  programs  (or  small  systems!) 

•  arrays  (single  or  multiple  dimensioned) 

•  full  screen  cursor  controlled  editor 

•  floating  point  and  integer  processing 

•  User's  Guide  and  documentation 
A  product  of  IDPC  Company 

Requires  16K  available  RAM  and  one  disk  drive. 


Z80A  System    SPECIAL  $3500 

•  64K  memory 

•  2.4  megabytes  disk  storage  (2  8"  2D  drives) 

•  2  parallel  and  2  serial  ports 

•  CP/M  2.x  included 


KM  MM  Pascal  for  PET    $75 

A  subset  of  standard  Pascal  with  extensions 

•  Machine  Language  Pascal  Source  Editor 

•  Machine  Language  P-Code  Compiler 

•  P-Code  Interpreter  (for  debugging  and  learning) 

•  P-Code  to  machine  language  translator  for  optimized  object 
code 

•  Run-time  package 

•  User  Manual  and  sample  programs 

Requires  16K  minimum.  Specify  ROM  version  and  disk  or  tape. 


FLOPPY  DISKS 


as  low  as  $1 .85 

(write  for  price  list) 


WBflSF 

\ferbatim    maxell 

EARL  for  PET  (disk  file  based)  $65 

Editor,  Assembler,  Relocater,  Linker 

Generates  relocatable  object  code  using  MOS  Technology  mnemonics. 
Disk  file  input  (can  edit  files  larger  than  memory).  Links  multiple  object 
programs  as  one  memory  load.  Listing  output  to  screen  or  printer. 


6502 

6502A 

6520  PIA 

6522  VIA 

6532 

2114-L450 

2114-L300 

2716  EPROM 

4116-200  ni  RAM  (NEC) 

6550  RAM  (PET  8K) 

S-100  Wire  Wrap  $2.65 


7.45  10/6.95  50/6.55  100/6.15 

8.40  10/7.95  50/7.35  100/6.90 

5.15  10/4.90  50/4.45  100/4.15 

6.90  10/6.50  50/6.10/  100/5.70 

7.90  10/7.40  50/7.00  100/6.60 

4.45  20/4.25  100/3.95 

5.65  20/5.35  100/4.95 

13.45  5/12.75  10/11.85 

8  for  39 

12.70 

Solder  Tail  2.15 


CASSETTES  -  AGFA  PE-611  PREMIUM 

High  output,  low  noise,  5  screw  housing,  labels. 

C-10  10/5.65  50/25.00  100/48.00 

C-30  10/7.30  50/34.00  100/66.00 

All  other  lengths  available.  Write  for  price  list. 

A  ATARI  800    $777 
All  Atari  Modules  25%  OFF 

SPECIAL-purchase  ATARI  800,  receive 
extra  8K  memory  FREE. 
EDUCATIONAL  PLAN  -  buy  2  ATARI 
Computers,  receive  1  ATARI  FREE! 


DISKS 

w. 

■ 

(write  tor  quantity  prices)      .)■ 

I 

SCOTCH  (3M)  8" 

10/3.00  50/2.85  100/2.75 

SCOTCH  (3M)  5" 

10/2.95  50/2.80  100/2.70 

Maxell  5" 

10/3.65  50/3.40 

100/3.15 

Maxell  8"  Double  Dens. 

10/410  50/3.95 

100/3.80 

Verbatim  5" 

10/2.40  50/2.35 

100/2.30 

(add  1.00  for  plastic  storage  box) 

BASF  5" 

10/2.40  20/2.35 

100/2.30 

BASF  8" 

10/2.40  20/2.35 

100/2.30 

Diskette  Storage  Pages 

10  for  3.95 

Disk  Library  Cases 

8"  -  2.85 

5"  -  2.15 

Commodore 

CBM-PET  SPECIALS 


X^y  merchandise  with  purchase  of 


<9  Up  to  $235  free 
merchandise  witl 
one  of  following  CBM-PET  items! 


FREE 

8032  32K  -  80  column  CRT  $1795  235 

8016  16K  -  80  column  CRT  $1495  205 

8050  Dual  Disk  Drive  -  950,000  bytes  $1695  220 

CBM  Modem  -  IEEE  Interface  $395     50 

CBM  Voice  Synthesizer  $395    50 

8N  full  size  graphics  keyboard  $795  100 
16K  Full  Size  Graphics  or 

Business  Keyboard  $995  1 50 
32K  Full  Size  Graphics  or 

Business  Keyboard  $1295  205 

2040  Dual  Oisk  Drive  -  343,000  bytes  $1295  205 

2022  Tractor  Feed  Printer  $795  100 

C2N  External  Cassette  Deck  $  95    12 

Used  PETs(8,  16,  and  32K)  CALL 
WRITE  FOR  SYSTEM  PRICES 


'EDUCATIONAL  DISCOUNTS* 

Buy  2  PET  Computers,  get  1  FREE 

CBM  Full  Size  Graphics  Keyboard  $  74 

WordPro  I  -  for  8K  PET  $  25 

WordPro  II  -  16K  CBM,  disk,  printer  $  85 

WordPro  III  -  32K  CBM,  disk,  printer  $1 70 

WordPro  IV  -  8032,  disk,  printer  $255 


VISICALC  for  PET  (Personal  Software) 
BPI  General  Ledger,  A/P,  A/R  for  PET 


$170 
$270 


Programmers  Toolkit  -  PET  ROM  Utilities       $  36.90 
PET  Spacemaker  Switch  $  22.90 


Dust  Cover  for  PET  $    7.90 

IEEE-Parallel  Printer  Interface  for  PET  $  65.00 

IEEE-RS232  Printer  Interface  for  PET  $149.00 

Centronics  737  Proportional  Spacing  Printer  $800 

NEC  Spinwriter  -  parallel  $2450 

XYMEC  Hl-Q  1000  Intelligent  Daisy  Wheel  $ 

Leedex  Video  100  12"  Monitor  $  129 

Zenith  Z1 9  Terminal  (factory  asm.)  $  739 

Zenith  Z89  with  48K  $2150 

Strobe  Model  100  Plotter  $  600 

SYM-1  $209 

SYM  BAS-1  BASIC  or  RAE-'A  Assembler  $  85 

KTM-2/80  Synertek  Video  Board  $349 

KIM-1  (add  $34  for  power  supply)  $159 

Seawell  Motherboard  -  4K  RAM  $195 

Seawell  16K  Static  RAM  -  KIM,  SYM,  AIM  $320 


KL-4M  Four  Voice  Music  Board 
and  Visible  Music  Monitor  (4  voice)  for  PET 


$59.90 


1 15  E.  Stump  Road 
Montgomeryville.  PA  1 8936 


2156995826  A  B  Computers 


MICR-REVERSI  for  PET  by  Michael  Riley        $  9.95 
machine  language  version  -  you  can't  win  at  Level  5. 

PAPER-MATE  60  Command  PET  Word  Processor  $29.95 
full-featured  version  by  Michael  Riley 

A  P  Products    15%  OFF     gl 
APHobby-Blox    15%  OFF 

ALL  BOOK  and  SOFTWARE  PRICES  DISCOUNTED 

The  8086  Book  (Osborne)  $12.75 
Z8000  Assembly  Language  Programming 

(Osborne)  $10.60 

PET  Personal  Computer  Guide  (Osborne)  $12.75 

PET  and  the  IEEE-488  Bus  (Osborne)  $12.75 

6502  Assembly  Language  (Osborne)  $  9.90 

Programming  the  6502  (Zaks)  $10.45 

6502  Applications  Book  (Zaks)  $10.45 

6502  Software  Cookbook  (Scelbi)  $  9.45 


WRITE  FOR  CATALOG. 

Add  SI  25  per  order  for  shipping  We  pay  balance  of  UPS  surface  charges 
on  all  prepaid  orders  Prices  listed  are  on  cash  discount  fe™*** 
prices  slightly  higher 


Circle  332  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980         395 


Circle  333  on  inquiry  card. 


Dual  Trace  Oscilloscope 
HITACHI  30  MHz 

e  TV  sync-separater  circuit 

•  High-sensitivity  1mV7div 
(SMHz) 

e  Sweep-time  magnifier 
(10  times) 

•  Z-axis  input  (Intensity 
modulation) 

•  Signal  delay  line 
e   X-V  operation 
e  Trace  Rotation 


$945.00 

More  sensitive  to  your  input 


SD  SYSTEMS 

ZQA       STARTER 
"OU        SYSTEM 

The  Z80  Starter  Kit  by  SD  Systems 
uses  the  powerful  Z80  microproces- 
sor as  the  heart  of  the  complete  micro- 
computer on  a  single  board.  Learn  a 
step-by-step  introduction  to  micro- 
computers with  s  keyboerd  and  display,  audio  cassette  inter- 
face. PROM  programmer,  wire-wrap  expansion  area.  4- 
channel  Counter  Timer  and  on  Board  RAM  end  PROM. 
Complete  Opperation  and  Instruction  Manual  included.  ZBUG 
Monitor  in  ROM 

27004  kit $340  38007  assem/T. .  $450 


SBC  100      "o*"0 
COMPUTER  KIT 

27003  kit $295 


VERSAFLOPPY  I 

FLEXIBLE  DISK 

DRIVE  Controller 


27002  assem/T  .  . 
38005  assem/T .  . 


$250 
$335 


BOARD 

PROM- 100       »'T 
PROM  Programmer 

27014  kit $200 


VDB-8024 

VIDEO 

DISPLAY  BOARD 


38013  assem/T.  .  .  $470 


8080A 


MICRO- 
PROCESSOR 


$C95 


2114L 


STATIC  RAM 


CRT 

CONTROLLER 
5037P      $3990 


Low  Cost  EPROM  Erasing  Lamps 


•  SIMPLE  10  USE 

•  SAFETY  tNTtflLXK 

•  ERASES  4  CHIPS  IN  LESS 
THAN  20  MINUTES 

UVS-tE  sasoo 


•  HIGH  INTENSITY  6W  LAMP 

•  TUBE  RATED  AT  SGOO  HOUHS 

•  ERASES  S  CHIPS  IN  LESS 
THAN  14  MINUTES 

UVS-64T  si 55  00 


•  UNMATCHED  INTENSITY  AT 
254  nm 

•  TUBE  HATED  tN  EXCESS  Of 
10,000  HOURS 

•  ERASES  IS  CHIPS  IN  LESS 
THAN  7  MINUTES 

S-52T  S355  00 


O  PLESSEY 

___^~~~~~*i  Metallized 
l""""""""-^-  I.  Polyester 
1  I        Capacitors 

r^ggntw. Series  l6° 

f^T^  m  -    'TjMINIBOX 
\  •*"* -~*C£~**BAM  PLER 

'"^^  S26.00 


SD  Systems 
EXPANDO  RAM 


27001  kit $220 

38001   assem/T  .  .  .  $480 


Add-On  RAM  Kit 

27010  (t6K.8d*viCM)  $165 


AP  PRODUCTS 


923101  S    79  95 

923102  12495 


923103         12495 


|l)"'»'"'";jv~(J, 


32K 

^,l."IWI^^l^|  Part  No.  OP1O00-2 

$1295 


SORCERER  COMPUTER 

ZBO     -      *K     ROM      - 
-     30    L.fUM    of    M 


3ZK  RAM    -     Dun 

Mmd       Ch.r»«.n  - 


C)f  MM      4  NEW  LOW 

aim- 1  PRICE 


$239.00 

KTM-2  CRT/TV  Kybd  Tarm  S349 


EPROM 

2708     *990 


EPROM 

2716     $1480 


POWER  SUPPLY 

5  Volt  3  Amp 

APS  5-3 


S42  50 
S4065 
S38  85 


*  16%  * 

DISCOUNT 

COUPON 

Bring  this  I'll  I  l*OI\  into  one  of  our  stores  or 

mail  to  our  Mail  Order  address  shown  below  and 

receive  a   I «%  »l\<  <M   \ I 

on  purchases  from  this  Ad  of  $100.00  or  more 

Uff<M-KXIMHKS<m\wv«MiilH»r:lO.  1 1MIO 


PHONE  NO 

;cepied  only  with  fi 


\T^\/      Send  check  Qr  M"nev  Order  to    P  0    Bo>  2208V    Mm  City  CA  90230 

California   residents   acid  6%  sales   la.     Minimum   Order    $1000 
Add  $2.00  io  cover  postage  and  handling.  Master  Charge  and  Visa  welcomed. 

interbank    number"  and    expiration"  dale      PHONE  ORDERS.  (213)     641  -4064 


MAIL  ORDER 

PO    Bo.  2208Y 

Culver  Crtv  CA  90230 

i213i    (41-4084 


TUCSON 


1602)  M>  2348 


PORTLAND 


SANTA  ANA 


CULVER  CITY 


t\  3!     390-3S95 


140*1    243-4121 


+ apple  II  plu/ 

*  With  48Kof 


m-M    T 


memory! 

$ioam 


Plexiglass 
as  shown 


•  Oof  resolution  graphics  in  six  densities 

•  1920  character  butter 

•  Fully  adjustable  tractors  to  9-1/2" 

IOO 


$649 


CONCORD 

COfllPUTER 

componsffls 


APPLE  EXPANSION  KIT 
16K  Memory  Add-On  3^4 

*  MEMORY  ADD-ON  KIT 

INCLUDES  INSTRUCTIONS 


MSM5832  MICROPROCESSOR 
REAL-TIME  <,_.- 

CLOCK/CALENDAR        f  *♦«* 
GENERAL  DESCRIPTION 


bo/e 


1971  SOUTH  STATE  COLLEGE    ANAHEIM, CA.  92806 

USA  MASIERCHARCE  /714\n07  AC07  MINIMUM 0KDU  S100C 

chcckormo  Wl4)937-0o37  ADO M  SO  FOR FRT 


w 


VISA  MASIERCHARCE 

CHECK  OK  MO 

MO  COO  u> 


1 12  000  l,»iol«mn 


HI  RES  AOD  V 


150,000  customers  have 
noticed  the  difference 


At  HOBBYWORLD,  the  difference  is  selection 

In  order  to  satisfy  the  needs  of  so  many  customers,  you  have  to  offer  the  widest 
possible  selection  of  products.  Hobbyworld  does  just  that,  and  all  under  one  roof! 
The  Hobbyworld  catalog  offers  hundreds  of  products  to  meet  just  about  all  of  your 
electronics  needs,  including:  Computer  systems  &  accessories;  Terminals,  printers, 
disk  drives  &  other  peripherals;  Computerized  toys  &.  games;  Disks,  diskettes  &. 
cassettes;  Application  boards,-  Integrated  circuits  and  other  electronics  parts. 
We  also  feature  a  comprehensive  library  of  software  and  books. 
Add  to  this  the  famous  HOBBYWORLD  quality  guarantee,  competitive 
prices,  and  superior  service  —  and  you've  got  selection  that  can't  be  beat! 


What  are  you  waiting  for? 

Act  now!  Call  us  toll  free  to  request  your 
free  catalog,  or  circle  the  readers  service 
number  in  this  magazine  —  or  fill  out  the 
coupon  and  send  to: 

HOBBYWORLD  ELECTRONICS,  INC. 
19511  Business  Ctr.  Dr.  Dept.  Bll 
Northridge,  California  91324 


FREE  HOBBYWORLD  CATALOG 


Name. 


Company- 
Address 

City 

Zip 


State. 


Selection  makes  the  difference. 

HOBBYWORLD 

ELECTRONICS,  INC. 

Toil-Free:  USA  (800)  423-5387 

Toil-Free:  Calif.  (800)  382-3651 

Local  &  Outside  USA:  (213)  886-9200 


Circle  335  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


397 


Circle  336  on  inquiry  card. 


BUILD  YOUR  OWN  LOW  COST 
MICRO-COMPUTER 

POWER  SUPPLIES 

FOR  S-100  BUS,  FLOPPY  DISCS,  ETC. 


POWER  TRANSFORMERS  (with  mounting  brackets) 


item 

NO. 


USED  IN 
KIT  NO. 


PRI.  WINDING 
TAPS 


J1 

T3 
T4 


OV,  110V,  120V 
0V,  1 10V,  120V 
0V,  110V,  120V 
0V,  1 10V,  120V 


SECONDARY  WINDING  OUTPUTS 
2x8  Vac 2x14  Vac  2x24  Vac 


2x7.5A 

2X12.5A 

2x9A 

2x4A 


2X2.5A 
2x3.5A 
2x2.5A 
(28V,  CT) 


2x2.5A 
r_  48V,  CT,  @3A 

POWER  SUPPLY  KITS  (open  frame  with  base  plate,  3  hrs.  assy,  time) 

ITEM USED  FOR  (5)+8Vdc         (S-8  Vdc        @+16Vdc       @-i6Vdc       (S+28  Vdc 


KIT1  15  CARDS  SOURCE  15A                

KIT  2  SYSTEM  SOURCE  25A                 

KIT  3           DISC  SYSTEM  15A  1A 

KIT  4           DISC  SOURCE  6A  1A 


2.5A 
3A 
2A 
1A 


2.5A 
3A 
2A 
1A 


4A 
5A 


SIZE 
W  x  D  x  H 


UNIT 
PRICE 


33/4"x35/8"x31/a" 
3%"x4%"x31/8" 
3%"x4%"x31/8" 
3%"x35/8"x3'/8" 


21.95 
27.95 
29.95 
22.95 


SIZEWxDxH       UNIT  PRICE 


12"x6"x4%" 
12"x6"x4%" 
14"x6"x47/e" 
10"x6"x47/a" 


51.95 
58.95 
66.95 
51.95 


■  *  •  LJM  IU     au     Af/5  «j  |  ,3»j 

EACH  KIT  INCLUDES:  TRANSFORMER,  CAPACITORS,  RESIS.,  BRIDGE  RECTIFIERS,  FUSE  &  HOLDER  TERMINAL  BLOCK  BASE 
PLATE,  MOUNTING  PARTS  AND  INSTRUCTIONS.  'OPTION  OF  KIT  4:  REPLACE  +28V  @  5A  BY  +16  @  6A 

DISC  DRIVE  POWER  SUPPLY  "R3"  assy.  &  tested,  open  frame,  size:  vmx*wnxm*  6695 

SPECS:    +5V  @  5A  REGUL,  OVP,  -5V  @  1A  REG.,  +24V  @  5A  REG.,  SHORTS  PROTECT.OPTIONS:   1.  REPLACE  +  24V  BY  +  12V| 
IDEALFOR2SHUGART801/851ORSIEMANSFDDKJ0-8/200-8DISKDRIVES&ROCKWELLAIM-65.  2.  ADD   ±  12V  @  1  A,  $10.00  MORE. 

SHIPPING  FOR  EACH  TRANSFORMER:   $4.75.  FOR  EACH  POWER  SUPPLY:  $5.00  IN  CALIF.  $7.00  IN  OTHER  STATES.  CALIF.  RESIDENTS  ADD  6%  SALES  TAX.  OEM  WELCOME. 


MAILING  ADDRESS: 
P.O.  BOX  4296 
TORRANCE,  CA  90510 


SUNNY  INTERNATIONAL 

(TRANSFORMERS  MANUFACTURER) 

(213)  328-2425  MON-SAT  9-6 


SHIPPING  ADDRESS: 
22129V2  S.  VERMONT  AVE 
TORRANCE,  CA  90502 


4 


735  LOMA  VERDE.  RU.O  ALTO.  CA.  94303 

Database  Management  Systems 

HDBS         A  hierarchical  Database  Manage- 
ment System  featuring  fixed  length  records, 
read/write  protection  at  file  level  and  one 
to  many  set  relationships. 

2-80    Optimized  250.00 

8080    Optimized  325.00 

6502  Optimized  325.00 

MDBS         A  large  computer  DBMS  with 
hierarchical  and  full  network  data  struc- 
tures (CODASY  L  Oriented).    Explicit 
representation  of  one  to  one,  one  to 
many,  many  to  one  and  many  to  many 
sets.    Routines  are  callable  from  BASIC, 
PASCAL'  COBOL  or  Machine  Language. 
Z-80    Optimized  750.00 

8080    Optimized  825.00 

6502    Optimized  825.00 


Communications 
BISYNC-80/3780       a  fun  function  ibm 

2780/3780    emulator    that    provides    one    of 
the    most    widely    used    communications 
protocols.  550.00 

BISYNC-80/HASP         A    full    function    Hasp 
Multi-leaving    Workstation    package.     800.00 

BISYNC-80/ASYNC         An    asynchronous 
communications    package    that    uses   the 
full    error    correcting    BISYNC    protocol. 

95.00 

BISYNC-80/3270       a  fun  function  ibm 

3275    or   3271/3277    terminal    emulator 
that    converts    a    "dumb"    terminal    into    a 
very    smart   one.  550.00 


Multiple  License  Pricing 

-    Upon    Inquiry    - 

*  LSI-11,  PDP-11  TM  DEC,  UNIX  TM 
Western  Electric,  CP/M  TM  Digital  Research 


398        BYTE  November  1980 


LSI-11     Z-80    8080    8085    6502 


PHONE:  415  493-8186 


High  Level  Languages 

8080,   8085,   Z-80    (Under    OS-1    or   CP/M) 

BASIC 

Microsoft    Compiler  395.00 

Microsoft   "BASIC    80"  350.00 

FORTRAN 

Microsoft    "FORTRAN    80" 

(Includes    MACRO    80)  500.00 

COBOL 

Microsoft    "COBOL    80"  750.00 

"C" 

Whitesmith's   "C"  600.00 

PL/1 

Digital    Research's    PL/1  500.00 

PASCAL 

M.T.    Compiler  250.00 

Z-80    Optimized    (Under    OS-1    or    CP/M) 

COBOL 

R-M    Z-80    COBOL    ANSI    '74      750.00 
LSI-11*/PDP-11*      Under    RT-11    or    RSTS 

COBOL  -  ANSI  '74  Introducing: 
RJ-11   Compiler  1750.00 


Applications  in  COBOL  '74 

Available    in    R-M    COBOL,    COBOL    80 
and    RJ-11.       (Source    Included) 

General  Ledger  995.00 

Accounts  Receivable  995.00 

Accounts  Payable  995.00 

Inventory  Control  995.00 

Order  Entry/Invoicing  995.00 

COMPLETE  LEGAL  4200.00 

COMPLETE  DENTAL  4200.00 

Why    COBOL? 
It's  portable    (ANSI    '74)    it's   universal! 


OPERATING  SYSTEMS 
TM       Z-80  Optimized 

0S-1  A  breakthrough  in  microcomputer 

software  from  Electrolabs!    UNIX*-|ike    OS 
with  virtual  I/O,  bank-select  memory  control 
to  1  6  MBY  and  optional  memory  protection! 
Totally  compatible  with  all  CP/M  programs. 
You  will  be  amazed  at  the  difference!    Ex- 
cellent brochure  available.    Includes  editor, 
linker-loader,  debugger,  and  one  year  update. 

249.00 
8080.  8085  &  Z-80 

CP/M    Version    2.2  150.00 

Manuals    only  25.00 

CP/M    -    MCZ    Version    2.2.       Runs    on 

ZILOG    MCZ   and    PDS-8000    systems. 
Only    from    Software    Labs!  200.00 

Manuals    only  35.00 


OUR  CATALOGUE 

Software 
Supplies 
Media 

Storage    Equipment 
Publications 
-    Upon    Request    - 


TO   ORDER 

*Price  of  manuals  applied  against  software 
purchase. 

By  Mail:  Send  check  or  money    order  {or 
P.O.  from  rated  or  institutional  customers) 

By  Phone:  Use  Master  Charge  or  Visa  No. 

Important  Note:  Please  specify  complete 
system  hardware  and  software  configuration 
with  each  order. 


Circle  337  on  inquiry  card. 


Contact  us  for  new  prices 

Qume  Datatrak  8 

Double  sided  floppy  with  NO  HEADACHES. 
Although  many  think  this  an  impossibility, 
seeing  is  believing,  and  this  drive  is  really 
something!  Shugart  compatible,  fully  option- 
ed, reliable,  and  rapidly  becoming  the  stand- 
ard in  double-sided  diskdom. 

$599.  Two/$549. 


Siemens  FDD  100-8D 

Single  sided  8"  floppy  drive,  the  latest 

&  greatest  revision.  Features  double  density 

plus  much  more.   An  extremely  reliable 

drive   $439    2/$409 

Hard  sector  option  kit...  $9.95 

Data  separator  option  kit...     $9.95 

The  following  5%"  mini-floppies  share  most 
features  with  their  8"  cousins,  so  without 
further  ado.  .  . 

Siemens  FDD  100-5D $279. 

Qume  Datatrak  5  (double  sided). .  .  .     399. 

BASF  Mini  mini 279. 

SA  400 299. 

All  the  above  mini-floppies  are  fully  SA400 
compatible. 

Manuals  for  all  drives  are  $10,  refundable  against  future  purchase  of 
drives.  Also,  all  8"  drives  can  be  ordered  with  220  v/50  hz  for  world- 
wide use. 


Disk  controllers 

Delta  Products  double  density  $349 

Micromation  doubler  439 

Tarbell  single  density,  A  &  T  225 

Tarbell  single  density,  kit  184 

Tarbell  double  density,  DMA  425 
Sorrento  Valley  8"  single  density 

for  Apple  375 


Electrolabs ' 
Monthly  Special!!! 

TELEVIDE0912C $745 

TELEVIDEO920C 812 

Features  typewriter  keyboard,  microprocessor 
controls,  Upper /lower  case,  adjustable  baud  rates 
(75-9600  baud),  special  function  keys,  much 
much  more. 

Second  page  memory  option  $29.00 


Accessories 


CM  HB  10  MBY  fully  REMOVEABLE  cartridge 
drive.  Complete  with  controller,  personality  card, 
media,  power  supply,  cabling,  connectors  and 
documentation.  Highlighted  by  stylish  &  modern 
cabinetry.  $6995. 

Shugart  SA4008   20MB Y  fixed  disk  system.  S-100, 
includes  controller,  power  supply,  and  all  that  is 
necessary  to  run  $6995. 


Data  Display  Monitors 

used  12"  Sylvania  monitors.  Composite 
video,  12  MHz,  120  VAC.  with  new  P-39  or 
P-4  tube,  $79,  used  tube  $59,  OEM  style 
(without  case),  subtract  $12.  U-fix  model, 
10/$300. 

4116  dynamic  RAM,  16K  Bonanza!! 

Set  of  8,  16K,  for  Apple,  TRS-80,  Exidy,  Heath  &  more.  200  Ns., 
prime  parts,  at  the  unheard  of  $49/8. 

Large  discounts  available  for  quantity  &  dealers  (500  &  up).  Offer 
limited  while  supply  lasts,  as  these  will  vanish  quickly!!! 


Media 


Cable  kits  for  8"  drives  with  10'  50  cond.  flat  cable, 
power  cable,  and  all  connectors.  Assembled  if  de- 
sired. One  drive  27.50,  two  33.95,  three  38.95 
for  mini  floppies  (34  cond):  one  24,95,  two,  29.95 

CP-206  Power-one  power  supply.  Powers  two  drives 
more  than  adequately,  top  quality.  2.8A/24V, 
2.5A/5V,.5A/-5V $99. 

mini-floppy  power  supply $79 


Electrolabs 

POB  4436,  Stanford,  CA  94305 

415-321-5601  800-227-8266 

Telex:    345567    (Electrolab   Pla) 
Visa  MC        Am.   Exp. 


PRAGMATIX  1 


Incredible!!  —  Two  8"  Shugart  compatible  single  sided  floppy 
disk  drives  (double  density),  CP-206  power  supply,  in  hand- 
some color  coordinated  cabinet,  with  full  cabling,  connectors, 
and  documentation,  plus  one  box  diskettes!!!  All  for  an  un- 
precedented $1865.  Up  to  one  MBY  of  storage. 

with  Qume  Datatrak  8"  double-sided  drive  $2495 


8"  ...$39.99  SS/SD 
8"  ...$49.00  SS/DD 
8"  ...$55.00  DS/SD 
8"  ...$59.00  DS/DD 
5%"  $34.95  SS 
5%"  $59.00  DS 
Verbatim,  Memorex,  Scotch,  or 
equivalent  name  brand 
Special  Introductory  Offer!!! 
Wabash  8"  diskettes  $29.00  SS 
$39.00  DS 
Price  is  cheap,  but  they  run 
like  champs!!!! 

Diskette  head  cleaning  kit  for  5V  or  8" 
$28.75  includes  everything  for  1  drive 
for  1  year.  Alignment  Diskette  for 
Floppy  Drives $39.00 


ENCLOSURES 


Rackmount  Mainframe  MT-200.  This  gorgeous 
beast  is  so  appealing  that  it  can  easily  function 
also  as  stand-alone  mainframe.  Very  modern 
styling  with  fully  actively  terminated  S-100  bus. 

With  two  8"  single-sided  disk  drives.  .  .     $1899. 
With  two  8"  double  sided  disk  drives  in  place 
of  single-sided  variety. $2499. 

Desktop  Mainframe  MT-100.  Contemporary  styling,  a  handsome  cabinet 

coated  with  durable  epoxy  finish  colors  (blue,  beige,  off-white  &  silver). 

Easy  to  fit  into  an  office  environment.  The  proper  way  to  start  your 

system. 

Above  plus  two  8"  single  sided  disk  drives $1 599. 

Above  with  two  8"  double  sided  disk  drives  in  place  of  single-sided 
variety $21 99. 


$25  min.  order.  Calif,  residents  add  6%  sales  tax.  Orders  under  $75,  add  5%  shipping 
and  handling,  over  $75  add  2.5%.  All  pricing  subject  to  change  without  notice. 


Circle  338  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


399 


Circle  339  on  inquiry  card. 


Add-On 

Disk  Drive 

Subsystems 

FOr  Apple,  TRS-80,  S-100 
Based  Computers 


Expansion  and  enhanced  capabilities  are  key  words  in  achieving  full  utilization  of  your  computer  system.  Our  complete  line  of  LOBO  disk 
drive  subsystems  are  the  ideal,  cost-effective  way  to  provide  the  expansion  capabilities  you  need  to  meet  your  system  growth  requirements. 
All  of  our  subsystems  are  complete,  thoroughly-tested,  100%  burned-in,  and  feature  a  1  year  100%  parts/labor  warranty. 


APPLE 


3101  Minifloppy 

31 01 1  Minifloppy  w/interface  card 

8101CA  One  SA800  in  cabinet  w/power,  SVA  Controller,  cable  and  manual 

8202CA  Two  SA800  in  cabinet  w/power.  SVA  Controller,  cable  and  manual 

51 01 CA  One  SA850  in  cabinet  w/power,  SVA  Controller,  cable  and  manual 

5202CA  Two  SA850  in  cabinet  w/power,  SVA  Controller,  cable  and  manual 


S-100  BASED 
COMPUTERS 

MODEL  NO  DESCRIPTION 

4101 C  SA400  in  cabinet  w/power 

821 2C  Two  SA801  in  cabinet  w/power 

521 2C  Two  SA851  in  cabinet  w/power 


GENERAL 


MODEL  NO  DESCRIPTION 

8212  Two  SA801  in  cabinet 

821 2C  Two  SA801  in  cabinet  w/power 

5212  Two  SA851  in  cabinet 

521 2C  Two  SA851  in  cabinet  w/power 


TRS80 


MODEL  NO.  DESCRIPTION 

4101C  SA400  in  cabinet  w/power 

8101C  II  One  SA800  in  cabinet  w/power  for  Mod.  I 

8202C  II  Two  SA800  in  cabinet  w/power  for  Mod. 

C802  Cable  for  Mod.  II 

C805  Cable  for  TRS80  Minifloppy 


MODEL  NO 

DESCRIPTION 

C808 

Cable  for  TRS80  Eight-inch  Floppy 

LX80 

Double  density  expansion  interface 

RS232 

Dual  Serial  Port  Option 

16K 

16K  Byte  RAM  for  LX80  (32KB  max.) 

VT0S 

4.0  Disk  Operating  System 

INVENTORY  CO., 

P.O.  Box  185,  Santa  Yuez,Ca.,  93640 
(805)  688-8781 


CM 


<u  to 


c 
> 

< 

c 

O 

v» 

o 

c 

3 


03 


t-   ^  Is* 

=  CM  r- 

J>    i  i 

.  tn  in 

g  CM  CM 


r~  *  oo  oo 


Yes!  We  supply  IMSAI  products... 


RAM  III 
Assembled 
&  Tested: 


I8080 
SYSTEM 
Assembled 
&  Tested: 


18080 

ENCLOSURE 
Sheet  Metal 
Only: 

IMSAI  PS28D 
Parts  Kit: 


64K  Byte  dynamic  RAM  BOARD—  Utilizes  the  Intel  3242  refresh  controller  and 
a  single  delay  line  for  total  internal  refresh.  Uses  time  proven  41 1 6  RAMS. 
Memory  mapped  I/O  boards  are  allowed  to  coexist  by  the  use  of  A1 6  buss  pin  1 6. 

Assembled  &  Tested         Price  $350. 

The  basic  8080  based  system.  Includes  CPA  front  panel,  22  slot  motherboard 
(with  all  22  edge  connectors),  MPU-A  8080  processor  board,  PS28  power 
supply  (28AMP  +8V3AMP  -16V),  and  chassis. 

With  MPU-A     $650.  Without  MPU-A      $600. 


18080 
Options: 


Thinker  Toys  Motherboard 


$75  extra 


THE  ORIGINAL  IMSAI:  Mainframe  with  blue  cover,  cardguides  and  hardware 
spaced  for  28A  power  supply,  up  to  22  slot  motherboard. 

•  Either  jump  start  or  front  panel 

•  Uses  various  motherboards 


Price    $95. 


Mounts  in  the  18080  mainframe  +  5V  28A,  -/+16V  3A,  kit  includes 
board,  transformer,  and  all  components.  ,.,_  ^oc  cr\ 

KIT  595.50 


Terms:  (1)  PREPAID— Send  check  for  merchandise  amount  only— 
We  pay  the  shipping  —or—  (2)  UPS  C.O.D.  and  bank  card  orders  by 
phone  or  mail.  Shipping  charges  will  be  added.  California  residents 
add  6Vt%  sales  tax. 

WRITE  FOR  FLYER  OR  VISIT  OUR  STORE 


400 


BYTE  November  1980 


Circle  340  on  inquiry  card 


DIGITAL  RESEARCH  COMPUTERS 

(214)  271-3538 


32K  S-100  EPROM  CARD 
NEW! 




"til    iKilJ*:-' 


$74.95 

KIT 


USES  271 6s 
Blank  PC  Board  -  $34 


ASSEMBLED  &  TESTED 
ADD  $30 
SPECIAL:  2716  EPROM  s  (450  NS)  Are  $14.95  EA.  With  Above  Kit. 


KIT  FEATURES: 

1-  Uses  +5V  only  2716  (2Kx8)  EPROM's 
2    Allows  up  to  32K  of  software  on  line! 

3.  IEEE  S-100  Compatible. 

4.  Addressable  as  two  independent  16K 
blocks. 

5    Cromemco  extended  or  Northstar  bank 

select. 
6.  On  board  wait  state  circuitry  if  needed. 


7.  Any  or  all  EPROM   locations  can  be 
disabled. 

8.  Double  sided  PC  board,  solder-masked, 
silk-screened 

9.  Gold  plated  contact  fingers. 

10.  Unselected     EPROM's     automatically 
powered  down  for  low  power. 

11.  Fully  buffered  and  bypassed. 

12.  Easy  and  quick  to  assemble. 


.o^ 


16K  DYNAMIC  RAM  PARTIALS 
INTEL  2108     8K  X  1     RAMS     £ 


8  FOR  $9.95        32  FOR  $35        ~  u  %  , 
V  FACTORY  PRIME! 

Huge  special  purchase  of  INTEL  Dynamic  RAM's.  These 
are  2108-4,  300NS,  8K,  Ceramic  DIP.  The  2108  is  the 
INTEL  2116  (16K)  tested  for  either  upper  or  lower  8K  only. 
These  are  factory  prime.  Full  Spec.  See  INTEL  1978  Cat. 
for  details  or  Memory  Design  Handbook  for  application 
data.  Both  IMSAI  and  EXTENSYS  did  mfg.  S-100  RAM 
boards  using  these  devices.  —  P.S.  These  devices  will  not 
work  in  the  SD  EPANDORAM™.  Please  specify  upper  or 
lower  8K.  (S1 626  or  S1 627) .  A  su  per  easy  RAM  to  interface 
to  aZ80,  16  PIN  DIP. 


FOR 
4MHZ 


-nice  LOW  POWER  -  300NS  8  FOR 

cor       2114  RAM  SALE!  $37  so 

4K  STATIC  RAM'S.  MAJOR  BRAND,  NEW  PARTS. 

These  are  the  most  sought  after  21 14's,  LOW  POWER  and  300NS  FAST. 

8  FOR  $37.50 


16K  STATIC  RAM  KIT-S  100  BUSS 


16K  STATIC  RAM  SS-50  BUSS 


PRICE  CUT! 


$1999£T 


in  ii  1111  ■linn 
11  ii  in  ii  in  i  in 


■4**W 


PRICE  CUT! 


122  S2SIS  illll  III 
lilllfilllillill 


FULLY  STATIC! 


BLANK  PC  BOARD  W/DATA-$33 

LOW  PROFILE  SOCKET  SET-$12 

SUPPORT  IC'S  &  CAPS-S19.95 


KIT  FEATURES: 

1 .  Addressable  as  four  separate  4K  Blocks. 
2    ON  BOARD  BANK  SELECT  circuitry.  (Cro- 
memco Standard1)  Allows  up  to  512K  on  line! 
3.  Uses  2114  (450NS)  4K  Static  Rams. 

4  ON  BOARD  SELECTABLE  WAIT  STATES. 

5  Double  sided  PC  Board,  with  solder  mask  and 
silk  screened  layout.  Gold  plated  contact  fingers 
6.  All  address  and  data  lines  fully  buffered.        ASSEMBLED  &  TESTED-ADD  $35 

7  Kit  includes  ALL  parts  and  sockets. 

8  PHANTOM  is  jumpered  to  PIN  67. 
9.  LOW  POWER:  under  1 .5  amps  TYPICAL  from 
the  +8  Volt  Buss 

10  Blank  PC  Board  can  be  populated  as  any 
multiple  of  4K 


FOR  2MHZ 
ADD  $10 


FOR  SWTPC 
6800  BUSS! 


OUR  #1  SELLING 
RAM  BOARD! 


ASSEMBLED  AND 
TESTED  -  $35 


KIT  FEATURES: 

i    Addressable  on  16K  Boundaries 

2  Uses  2114  Static  Ram 

3  Fully  Bypassed 

4  Double  sided  PC  Board    Solder  mask 
and  silk  screened  layout 

5.  All  Parts  and  Sockets  included 

6    Low  Power:  Under  1  5  Amps  Typical 


BLANK  PC  BOARD— $30  COMPLETE  SOCKET  SET— $12 

SUPPORT  IC'S  AND  CAPS— $19.95 


&H*  STEREO!  W 

S-100  SOUND  COMPUTER  BOARD 


COMPLETE  KIT! 
$3495 

(WITH  DATA  MANUAL) 


At  last,  an  S-100  Board  that  unleashes  the  full  power  of  two 
unbelievable  General  I  nstrumentsAY3-8910NMOS  computer 
sound  IC's.  Allows  you  under  total  computer  control  to 
generate  an  infinite  number  of  special  sound  effects  for 
games  or  any  other  program.  Sounds  can  be  called  in  BASIC, 
ASSEMBLY  LANGUAGE,  etc. 
KIT  FEATURES: 

*  TWO  Gl  SOUND  COMPUTER  IC'S. 

*  FOUR  PARALLEL  I/O  PORTS  ON  BOARD. 

*  USES  ON  BOARD  AUDIO  AMPS  OR  YOUR  STEREO. 

*  ON  BOARD  PROTO  TYPING  AREA. 

*  ALL  SOCKETS,  PARTS  AND  HARDWARE  ARE  INCLUDED. 

*  PC  BOARD  IS  SOLDERMASKED.  SILK  SCREENED,  WITH  GOLD  CONTACTS 

*  EASY,  QUICK.  AND  FUN  TO  BUILD.  WITH  FULL  INSTRUCTIONS. 

*  USES  PROGRAMMED  I/O  FOR  MAXIMUM  SYSTEM  FLEXIBILITY 
Both  Basic  and  Assembly  Language  Programming  examples  are  included. 

SOFTWARE: 

SCLT"  is  now  available1  Our  Sound  Command  Language  makes  writing  Sound  Effects  programs 
a  SNAP'  SCL'"  also  includes  routines  for  Register-Examine-Modify.  Memory-Examine-Modify 
and  Play-Memory  SCL'"  is  available  on  CP/M'  compatible  diskette  of  2708  or  2716  Diskette  - 
$24.95  2708  -  $19.95  2716  -  $29.95  Diskette  includes  the  source  EPROM'S  are  ORG  at 
E000H 


BLANK  PC 

BOARD  W/DATA 

$31 


4K  DYNAMIC  RAM  BLOWOUT! 
SAME  AS  INTEL  2107BI 
4K  RAMS  AT  AN  UNBELIEVABLE  50C  EACH!!! 
Prime,  new,  National  Semi.,  1979  date  coded,  full  spec,  parts.  NS. 
#MM5280-5N.  Same  as  INTEL  2107B-4,  T.I.  TMS4060,  NEC  UPD411,  etc. 
We  bought  a  HUGE  QTY.  from  a  West  Coast  Distributor  at  truly 
DISTRESS  PRICES!  One  of  the  most  popular  and  reliable  RAM's  ever 
made.  These  parts  have  been  used  by  almost  all  Major  Computer  Main 
Frame  Mfg.  the  world  over!  Arranged  as  4K  x  1 ,  270  NS  Access  Time,  22 
Pin  Dip.  These  units  DO  NOT  use  multiplexed  addressing,  thus  making 
REFRESH  and  other  timing  very  simple.  See  INTEL  MEMORY  DESIGN 
HANDBOOK  for  full  application  notes  The  NAT.  SEMI.  MEMORY  DATA 
BOOK  is  available  at  most  Radio  Shack  Stores.  Prime  units  in  original 
factory  tubes! 


tf* 


#5280-5N  4096  BITS  X  1   270  NS  ACCESS 


8  FOR  $4.95    32  FOR  $16 

FACTORY  CASE  (450  PCS)  —  $180 

Sockets  Special:  22  Pin  Low  Profile  (With  Purchase  of  5280s)  8  FOR  $1. 


COMPUTER  PARTS  SPECIALS 

74LS175-    .99  8035  Intel  Single  Chip  CPU  -  5.95 

74LS240  -  1.79  Signetics  2901  4  Bit  Slice  -  6.95 

74LS241  -  1.79  AMD  2903  4  Bit  Super  Slice  -  12.50 

74LS244  -  1.79  AMD  29705  Dual  Port  RAM  -  8.95 
74LS373  -  1.99 


NEW!     G.I.  COMPUTER  SOUND  CHIP 

AY3-8910  As  featured  in  July.  1979  BYTEI  A  fantastically  powerful  Sound  &  Music 
Generator,  Perfect  for  use  with  any  8  Bit  Microprocessor  Contains:  3  Tone  Channels. 
Noise  Generator,  3  Channels  of  Amplitude  Control.  16  bit  Envelope  Period  Control,  2-8 
Bit  Parallel  I/O.  3  D  to  A  Converters,  plus  much  more1  All  in  one  40  Pin  DIP  Super  easy 
interface  to  the  S-100  or  other  busses         $11.95  PRICE  CUT! 

SPECIAL  OFFER:  $14.05  each         Add  $3  for  60  page  Data  Manual. 


Digital  Research  Computers 

"*  (OF  TEXAS)  ' 

P.O.  BOX  401565  •  GARLAND,  TEXAS  75040  •  (214)  271-3538 


TERMS:  Add  $1.50  postage.  We  pay  balance.  Orders  under  $15  add  75$ 
handling.  No  COD.  We  accept  Visa  and  MasterCharge.  Tex.  Res.  add  5% 
Tax.  Foreign  orders  (except  Canada)  add  20%  P  &  H  90  Day  Money  Back 
Guarantee  on  all  items:  Orders  over  $50,  add  85S  for  insurance 


■TRADEMARK  OF  DIGITAL  RESEARCH. 

Circle  341  on  inquiry  card. 


NOT  ASSOCIATED  WITH  DIGITAL  RESEARCH  OF  CALIFORNIA,  THE  SUPPLIERS  OF  CPM  SOFTWARE. 

BYTE  November  1980         401 


HEX  ENCODED  KEYBOARD 

Four  onboard  LEDs  indi- 
cate the  HEX  code  gen- 
erated for  each  key 
depression.  The  board 
requires  a  single  +5 
volt  supply.  Board  only 
$1 5.00  Part  No.  HEX-3, 
with  parts  $49.95  Part 
No.  HEX-  3A.  44  pin 
edge  connector  $4.00 
Part  No.  44P. 


T.V. 
TYPEWRITER 


•  Stand  alone  TVT 

•  32  char/line,  16 
lines,  modifications  for 
64  char/line  included 

•  Parallel  ASCII  (TTLJ 
input  •  Video  output 

•  1 K  on  board  memory 

•  Output  for  computer 
controlled  curser  • 
Auto  scroll  •  Non- 
destructive curser  • 
Curser  inputs:  up,  down, 
left,  right,  home,  EOL, 
EOS  •  Scroll  up,  down 

•  Requires  +5  volts 
at  1.5  amps,  and  -12 
volts  at  30  mA  •  All 
7400,  TTL  chips  • 
Char.  gen.  2513  • 
Upper  case  only  • 
Board  only  $39.00 
Part  No.  106,  with 
parts  $145.00  Part 
No.  106A 


44  BUS  MOTHER 
BOARD 


Has  provisions  for  ten 
44  pin  (.156)  connec- 
tors, spaced  3/4  of  an 
inch  apart.  Pin  20  is 
connected  to  X,  and 
22  is  connected  to  Z 
for  power  and  ground. 
All  the  other  pins  are 
connected  in  parallel. 
This  board  also  has 
provisions  for  bypass 
capacitors.  Board 
cost  $15.00  Part  No. 
102.  Connectors 

$3.00  each  Part  No. 
44WR 


UARTfi 
BAUD  RATE 
GENERATOR 


•  Converts  serial  to 
parallel  and  parallel  to 
serial  •  Low  cost  on 
board  baud  rate  gener- 
ator •  Baud  rates: 
110,  150,  300.  600, 
1200,  and  2400  • 
Low  power  drain  +5 
volts  and  -12  volts 
required  •  TTL  com- 
patible •  All  characters 
contain  a  start  bit,  5 
to  8  data  bits,  1  or  2 
stop  bits,  and  either 
odd  or  even  parity.  •  All 
connections  go  to  a  44 
pin  gold  plated  edge 
connector  •  Board  only 
$12.00  Part  No.  101, 
with  parts  $35.00  Part 
No.  1 01  A,  44  pin  edge 
connector  $4.00  Part 
No.  44P 


RS-232/20mA 
INTERFACE 


This  board  has  two 
passive,  opto-isola- 
ted  circuits.  One  con- 
verts RS-232  to 
20mA,  the  other  con- 
verts 20mA  to  RS- 
232.  All  connections 
go  to  a  10  pin  edge 
connector.  Requires 
+12  and  -12  volts. 
Board  only  $9.95. 
part  no.  7901.  with 
parts  $14.95  Part 
No.  7901A. 


ASCII  TO  CORRESPONDENCE 
CODE  CONVERTER 

This  bidirectional  board  is  a  direct  replace- 
ment for  the  board  inside  the  Trendata  1000 
terminal.  The  on  board  connector  provides 
RS-232  serial  in  and  out.  Sold  only  as  an 
assembled  and  tested  unit  for  $249.95. 
Part  No.  TA  1000C 


ASCII  KEYBOARD 

53  Keys  popular  ASR-33  format  •  Rugged 
G-10  P.  C.  Board  •  Tri-mode  MOS  encoding 
•  Two-Key  Rollover  •  MOS/DTL/TTL  Compat- 
ible •  Upper  Case  lockout  •  Data  and  Strobe 
inversion  option  •  Three  User  Definable 
Keys  •  Low  contact  bounce  •  Selectable  Par- 
ity •  Custom  Keycaps  •  George  Risk  Model 
753.  Requires  +5,  -12  volts.  $59.95  Kit. 


ASCII  KEYBOARD 

TTL  &  DTL  compatible  •  Full  67  key  array 

•  Full  128  character  ASCII  output  •  Positive 
logic  with  outputs  resting  low  •  Data  Strobe 

•  Five  user-definable  spare  keys  •  Standard 
22  pin  dual  card  edge  connector  •  Requires 
+5VDC,  325  mA.  Assembled  S.  Tested. 
Cherry  Pro  Part  No.  P70-05AB.  $119.95. 


^zr  ~ 


A-to-D  D-to-A  CONVERTER 


Analog  to  Digital, 
Digital  to  Analog 
Converter  A-D  con- 
version time  20us. 
D-A  conversion 
5us.  Uses  include 
speech  and  music 
synthesizing  and 
slow  scan  TV.  Sin- 
gle power  supply  I5V),  8  Bits  wide,  latched  I/O, 
strobe  lines.  Part  No.  79287K  Complete  Kit 
$49.95  •  Part  No.  79287A  Assembled  $69.95 


3Ht 


m. 


SOLID  STATE  SWITCH 


Your  computer  can  control  power 
(120VAC)  to  your  printer,  lights, 
and  other  120VAC  appliances  up 
to  720  watts  (6AMPS  at  1 20VAC1 
Input  3  to  15  VDC,  2-13  MA  TTL 
compatible,  isolation  1500V.  Part  No.  79000K 
1  Channel  Kit  $9.95  •  Assm.  $1 2.50  •  Part  No. 
79004K  4  Channel  Kit  $34.95  •  Assm.  $44.95. 


SUPER  MODEM 

Orignate,  RS-232  and 
20  mA  compatable,  Full 
duplex,  and  half  duplex, 
direct  connect  or  a- 
coustic  coupled,  on 
board  power  supply,  car- 
rier detect  light,  DB25  plug  ,  300  BAUD,  Type 
103  compatable  frequencies,  Bare  board  Part 
No.  2000,  $1 9,95,  Kit  Part  No.  2000A,  $99.95. 


T.V.  INTERFACE 


•  Converts  video  to 
AM  modulated  RF, 
Channels  2  or  3.  So 
powerful  almost  no 
tuning  is  required.  On 
board  regulated  power 
supply  makes  this  ex- 
tremely stable.  Rated 
very  highly  in  Doctor 
Dobbs'  Journal.  Recom- 
mended by  Apple  • 
Power  required  is  1 2 
volts  AC  C.T..  or  +5 
volts  DC  •  Board  only 
$7.60  part  No.  107, 
with  parts  $1 3.50  Part 
No.  1 07A 


SOROCIQ120 


Upper/lower  case  dis- 
play •  Numeric  keypad 
&  cursor  keys  •  Pro- 
tected fields,  Vs  inten- 
sity display  •  RS  232 
interface  S.  aux.  port. 
IQ120— $799.95  • 
IQ1 40  Detachable  key- 
board—$1199.95 


RS-32/TTL 
INTERFACE 


•  Converts  TTL  to  RS- 
232,  and  converts  RS- 
232  to  TTL  •  Two  se- 
parate circuits  •  Re- 
quires -12  and  +12 
volts  •  All  connections 
go  to  a  10  pin  edge 
connector,kit$9.95  Part 
No.232A10Pinedge  con- 
nector $3.00  part  No. 
10P. 


^TAPE^^\ 
INTERFACE 


•  Converts  a  low  cost 
tape  recorder  to  a 
digital  recorder  •  Works 
up  to  1200  baud  •Dig- 
ital in  and  out  are  TTL- 
serial  •  Output  of 
board  connects  to  mic. 
in  of  recorder  •  Ear- 
phone of  recorder  con- 
nects to  input  on  board 

•  No  coils  •  Requires 
+5  volts,  low  power 
drain  •  Board  only 
$7.60  Part  No.  111, 
with  parts  $29. 95Part 
No.  111A 


MODEM 


•  Type  1 03  •  Full  or  half 
duplex  •  Works  up  to 
300  baud  •  Originate 
or  Answer  •  Serial  TTL 
input  and  output  •  con- 
nect 8  0  speaker  and 
crystal  mic.  directly  to 
board  •  Requires  +5 
volts*  Board  only $7.60 
Part  No.  1 09,  with  parts 
$29.95  Part  No.  109 A. 


COMPUCOLOR  II 


^HMMMfaujil9* 


m 


■ 

With  reg.  keyboard 
MOD3  8K  $1449.95 
MOD4  16  K  $1495.95 
MOD5  32K  $1699.95 
Without  disk  drive  sub- 
tract $450.00.  Add-on 
drives,  $495.00.  With 
101  key  option  add 
$134.95.  With  117  key 
option  add  $179.95. 


DC  POWER  SUPPLY 


•  Board  supplies  a  regulated  +5 
volts  at  3  amps.,  +1  2,  -1 2,  and  -5 
volts  at  1  amp.  •  Power  required  is 
8  volts  AC  at  3  amps.,  and  24  volts 
AC  C.T.  at  1.5  amps.  •  Board  only  §|§ 
$12.50  Part  No.  6085,  with  parts 
excluding  transformers  $42.50 
Part  No.  6085A 


Send  for  FREE  Catalog.. .a  big  self  addressed  envelope  with  80<P  postage  gets  it  fastest! 


Tfl  flrriPr'    Mention  part  no.,  description,  and  price.  In  USA  shipping  paid  by  us  for  orders  accompanied  by  check  or  money 
IU  Ul  UGl  .    order,  yye  accept  C.O.D.  orders  (U.S.  only)  or  a  VISA  or  Master  Charge  no.,  expiration  date,  signature  and  phone 
no.,  shipping  charges  will  be  added.  CA  residents  add  B.5°/o  for  tax.  Outside  USA  add  1 5°/o  for  air  mail  postage 
and  handling.  Payment  must  be  in  U.S.  dollars.  Dealer  inquiries  invited.  Prices  subject  to  change  without  notice. 


Order  Line:  (408)  448-0800 


ELECTRONIC    SYSTEMS  Dept.  B,  P.O.  Box  21638,  San  Jose,  CA  USA  95151 


402        BYTE  November  1980 


Circle  390  on  inquiry  card. 


d**a 


II  Or 


APPLE  II  PLUS 


\ 


16K$975.95.  Extra  16K 
E.S.  RAM  installed 
$74.95,  extra  3SKE.S. 
RAM  installed  $148.95. 


APPLE  II   HOBBY/ 
PROTOTYPING  CARD 

PartNo.7907$14.95 


APPLE  II 
PARALLEL 
INTERFACE 


Interfaces  printers,  syn- 
thesizers keyboards,  and 
JBE  A-D  D-A  Converter 
&  Switches.  This  inter- 
face has  4  I/O  ports 
with  handshaking  logic, 
2-6522  VIA's  and  a 
74LS74  for  timing.  In- 
puts and  outputs  are 
TTL  compatible.  Part 
No.  79295K  Complete 
Kit— $69.95  •  Part  No. 
79295A  Assembled— 
$79.95 


REALTIME 

100,000  DAY 

CLOCK 

MT.  HARDWARE  Dou- 
ble the  utility  of  your 
S-100  bus  computer 
with  a  real-time  clock 
that  keeps  time  in 
1CXVS  increments  for 
over  273  years.  Pro- 
gram events  for  the  en- 
tire period  with  real  time 
interrupts. ..without  de- 
railing the  system.  Main- 
tain a  log  of  computer 
usage,  time  and  date 
transaction  printouts, 
call  up  lists.  On-board 
battery  backup. 
MHPX004- $349.00 


16K  EPRoRT 

rams 


'^f  If  1III 

mmjm   *  m  m»  — 


Uses  2708  EPROMS, 
memory  speed  selec- 
tion provided,  ad- 
dressable anywhere  in 
65K  of  memory,  can 
be  shadowed  in  4K  in- 
crements. Board  only 
$24.95  part  no. 
7902,  with  parts  less 
EPROMs  $49.95  part 
no.  7902A. 


PET  COMPUTER 


With  16K  &  monitor— 
$895.00  •  Dual  Disk  Drive 
-$1095.00 


0PT0  ISOLATED 

PARALLEL  INPUT 

BOARD  FOR 

APPLE  II 


There  are  8  inputs  that 
can  be  driven  from 
TTL  logic  or  any  5  volt 
source.  The  circuit 
board  can  be  plugged 
into  any  of  the  8  sockets 
of  your  Apple  II.  It  has 
a  16  pin  socket  for 
standard  dip  ribbon 
cable  connection. 
Board  only$1 5.00.  Part 
No.  120.  with  parts 
$69.95.  Part  No.  120A. 


VIDEO  TERMINAL 


wmm 


1 6  lines,  64  columns  • 
Upper  and  lower  case 

•  5x7  dot  matrix  •  Se- 
rial RS-232  in  and  out 
with  TTL  parallel 
keyboard  input  •  On 
board  baud  rate 
generator  75,  110, 
150,  300,  600,  & 
1200  jumper  select- 
able •  Memory  1024 
characters  C7-21 L02) 

•  Video  processor  chip 
SFF96364  by  Necu- 
lonic  •  Control  char- 
acters (CR.  LF,  ->,  -, 
T,  i,  non  destructive 
cursor,  CS,  home,  CL 

•  White  characters  on 
black  background  or 
vice-versa  •  With  the 
addition  of  a  key- 
board, video  monitor 
or  TV  set  with  TV 
interface  (part  no. 
107A)  and  power 
supply  this  is  a  com- 
plete stand  alone 
terminal  •  also  S-100 
compatible  •  requires 
+  16.  &  -16  VDC  at 
100mA,  and8VDCat 
1A.  Part  No.  1000A 
$199.95  kit. 


nnmi 


PARALLEL 

TRIAC  OUTPUT 

BOARD  FOR 

APPLE  II 

This  board  has  8  tnacs  capable  of  switching 
110  volt  6  amp  loads  (660  watts  per  channel)  or  a 
total  of  5280  watts.  Board  only  $1 5.00  Part  No. 
210,  with  parts  $1 1 9.95  Part  No.  21 OA 


APPLE  IK- 
SERIAL  I/O 
INTERFACE 


Baud  rate  is  continuously  adjustable  from  0 
to  30,000  •  Plugs  into  any  peripheral 
connector  •  Low  current  drain.  RS-232  input 
and  output  •  On  board  switch  selectable  5  to 
8  data  bits.  1  or  2  stop  bits,  and  parity  or  no 
parity  either  odd  or  even  •  Jumper  selectable 
address  •  SOFTWARE  •  Input  and  Output 
routine  from  monitor  or  BASIC  to  teletype  or 
other  serial  printer  •  Program  for  using  an 
Apple  II  for  a  video  or  an  intelligent  terminal. 
Also  can  output  in  correspondence  code  to 
interface  with  some  selectrics.  •  Also 
watches  DTR  •  Board  only  $15.00  Part  No. 
2,  with  parts  $42.00  Part  No.  2A,  assembled 
$62.00  Part  No.  2C 


8K  EPROM  PICEON 


•  Programs  2708's  address  relocation  of  each 
4K  of  memory  to  any  4K  boundary  •  Power  on 
jump  and  reset  jump  option  for  "turnkey" 
systems  and  computers  without  a  front  panel 

•  Program  saver  software  in  1  2708  EPROM 
$25.  Bare  board  $35  including  custom  coil, 
board  with  parts  but  no  EPROMS  $1 39,  with  4 
EPROMS  $1 79,  with  8  EPROMS  $21 9. 


WAMECO  PRODUCTS 

With  ELECTRONIC  SYSTEMS  parts 

FDC-1  FLOPPY  CONTROLLER  BOARD  will 
drive  shugart,  pertek,  remex  5"  S.  8"  drives 
up  to  8  drives,  on  board  PROM  with  power 
boot  up,  will  operate  with  CPM  (not 
included).  PCBD    $42.95 

FPB-1  Front  Panel.  (Finally)  IMSAI  size  hex 
displays.  Byte  or  instruction  single  step. 
PCBD $42.95 

MEM-1A  8Kx8  fully  buffered,  S-100,  uses 
2102  type  RAMS. 
PCBD $24.95,  $1  68  Kit 

QMB-12  MOTHER  BOARD,  1 3  slot,  termi- 
nated, S-1 00  board  only    $34.95 

$89.95  Kit 

CPU-1  8080A  Processor  board  S-1 00  with 

8  level  vector  interrupt  PCBD   . .  $25.95 

$89.95  Kit 

RTC-1  Realtime  clock  board.  Two  independ- 
ent interrupts.  Software  programmable. 
PCBD $25.95,  $60.95  Kit 

EPM-2  2708/2716  16K/32K 

EPROM  card  PCBD    $24.95 

$49.95  with  parts  less  EPROMS 

QMB-9  MOTHER  BOARD.  Short  Version  of 

QMB-12.  9  Slots  PCBD     $30.95 

$67.95  Kit 

MEM-2  16Kx8  Fully  Buffered  2114  Board 
PCBD $25.95.  $269.95  Kit 

YOU  MUST  REFER  TO  THIS  AD 
TO  GET  THESE  PRICES. 


D.C.  HAYES  MICROMODEM 


Fully  S-100  bus  compatible  including  16-bit 
machines  and  4  MHz  processors.  •  Two  soft- 
ware selectable  Baud  rates— 300  Baud  and  a 
jumper  selectable  speed  from  45  to  300  Baud. 
(110  standard).  Supports  originate  and  answer 
modes.  •  Direct-connect  Microcoupler.  This 
FCC-registered  device  provides  direct  access 
into  your  local  telephone  system,  with  none  of 
the  losses  or  distortions  associated  with  acous- 
tic couplers  and  without  a  telephone  company 
supplied  data  access  arrangement.  •  Auto- 
Answer/ Auto-Call.  The  MICROMODEM  100 
can  automatically  answer  the  phone  and  receive 
input;  it  can  also  dial  a  number  automatically.  • 
Automatic  Reset  and  Disconnect.  •  Software 
compatible  with  the  D.C.  Hayes  Associates 
B0-103A  Data  Communications  Adapter. 
Micromodem-DCHA32625— $379.95 


TIDMA 


Tape  Interface  Direct  Memory  Access  •  Record 
and  play  programs  without  bootstrap  loader  (no 
prom)  has  FSK  encoder/decoder  for  direct  con- 
nections to  low  cost  recorder  at  1 200  baud  rate, 
and  direct  connections  for  inputs  and  outputs  to 
a  digital  recorder  at  any  baud  rate  •  S-100  bus 
compatible  •  Board  only  $35.00  Part  No.  112. 
with  parts  $110.00  Part  No.  112A. 

SYSTEM  MONITOR 

8080,  8085,  or  Z-80  System  monitor  for  use 
with  the  TIDMA  board.  There  is  no  need  for 
the  front  panel.  Complete  with  documentation 
$12.95. 


RS-232/TTY 
INTERFACE 


?«■      w ifjip  - 
-■■■■■■■JUMppt' 

IT- 


This  board  has  two 
active  circuits,  one  con- 
verts RS-232  to  20  m  A, 
the  other  converts  20 
mA  to  RS-232.  Re- 
quires +12  and  -12 
volts.  $9.95  Part  No. 
600A  Kit. 


SERIAL  I/O 


Four  Serial  I/O  RS-232 
ports.  S-100  Bus,  Soft- 
ware or  (umper  selectable 
baud  rate  1110,  300,600. 
1200,2400,4800,9600. 
19.2K),  on  board  Xtal  baud 
rate  generator,  Address- 
ing, switch  selectable. 
Parity  or  no  parity  (odd  or 
even)  switch  selectable,  1 
or  2  stop  bits,  5  to  8 
bits/character.  Board  only 
$29.95.  Part  No.  7908. 
With  parts  (kit)  $199.95, 
Part  No.  7908A. 


S-100  BUS 
ACTIVE  TERMINATOR 


Board  only  $14.95  Part  No.  900,  with  parts 
$24.95  Part  No.  900A 


Send  for  FREE  Catalog.. .a  big  self  addressed  envelope  with  80<t  postage  gets  it  fastest! 


Tfl  flrflPr*    Ment'on  Part  n0-  description,  and  price.  In  USA  shipping  paid  by  us  for  orders  accompanied  by  check  or  money 
iu  ui  ugi  .  onjer  y\/e  accept  C.O.D.  orders  (U.S.  only)  or  a  VISA  or  Master  Charge  no.,  expiration  date,  signature  and  phone 


no.,  shipping  charges  will  be  added.  CA  residents  add  6.5°/o  for  tax.  Outside  USA  add  1 5°/o  for  air  mail  postage 
and  handling.  Payment  must  be  in  U.S.  dollars.  Dealer  inquiries  invited.  Prices  subject  to  change  without  notice. 


Order  Line:  (408)  448-0800 


ELECTRONIC  SYSTEMS  w B^  p-°- Box  2i63a  San  jose' CA  uSA 95151 


Circle  390  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


403 


6502  USERS! 

Upgrade  your  present  6502  system  to  6809 
capability  with  a  65-09  module. 

Simple  installation.  No  modification  to 
existing  hardware  required.  Software  also 
available  for  most  major  systems. 

65-09  Module  Kit $110.00 

65-09  Module  Assembled/Tested  135.00 
2K  Eprom  Monitor 59.95 

Michigan  residents  add  4%  sales  tax. 
Send  check,  money  order  or  COD  to: 

MICRO  PROCESSOR  SYSTEMS,  INC. 

37060  Garfield,  Suite  C4 

Mt.  Clemens,  Ml  48043 

(313)  263-9440 


OHIO 

SCIENTIFIC 

SYSTEMS 

CALL  FREE  FOR  OUR.  PRICES 

(800)  558-0870 

or 

WRITE  FOR  CATALOG 

FARAGHER  & 
ASSOCIATES 

7635  BLUEMOUND 

MILWAUKEE,  WI  53213 

(414)  258-2588 

In  Wisconsin 


HOLD  THAT  TIGER! 

(OR  OTHER  PRINTER) 

B-         «■       •  STAND  WITH 
PAPER-TRAY 

.  MADE  FROM  3/4" 
STURDY  STOCK 

.  OFFICE-TYPE 
WALNUT  FINISH 

•  COMPLETELY 
ASSEMBLED. 
NOT  A  KIT 

.  18"Wx  12"Dx 
shipping     »        27"H 

5V*%  sales  tax  for  I L  orders 

RMF  PRODUCTS,  INC. 
P.O.  Box  413  .Batavia,  I L  60510 

Phone  (312)  879-0020 
DEALER  INQUIRIES  INVITED 


Circle  342  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  343  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  344  on  inquiry  card. 


dbis 


YOUR  HEADQUARTERS  FOR 


SALES  •  SERVICE  *  SUPPORT 

THE    BEST    NEW    YORK    AREA    PRICES 
ON    ALL    OHIO    SCIENTIFIC    COMPUTERS 
-    LOCAL    USERS    GROUP    - 
BUSINESS    AND    PERSONAL    SYSTEMS 

PROFESSIONAL  BUSINESS  SOFTWARE: 
Systems  now  available: 
Encumbered  Budget  Accounting 
I nventory/l nvoici  ng      Export  Management 
Mai  I ing   List                    Payro! I 
Accounts   Receivable     Accounts  Payable 
Manuals  available  separately $35 

ALSO  AVAILABLE: 

•Eaton    LRC  7000+   Plain   Paper  PrI nter. . .$356. 

*0kidata  MIcroMne  80  Printer- 
upper/lower   case,   graphics,    any  paper, 
software  selectable   print   size 695. 

MASTERCHARGE    £    VISA    WELCOME 

Designers  &  Builders  of  Information  Systems,  Inc. 

One  Mayfair  Road  -  Eastchester,  New  York  10707 

(914)779-5292  (212)933-4170 


350  Char/Sec  Low  Cost  Loader 

Solid  state  photoelectronic  components  read 
all  standard  5,  6,  7  or  8-level  tapes.  Smooth, 
quiet  AC  drive.  Reliable  high-speed  paper 
tape  data  entry.  Data  amplifiers  and  "char- 
acter ready"  output  available  for  CMOS  or 
TTL  interfaces.  Standard  interface  or  to  your 
interface  specifications.  Fanfold  boxes  avail- 
able. 

Addmaster  Corporation,  416  Junlpero  Serra 
Drive,  San  Gabriel,  CA  91776,  Telephone: 
(213)  285-1121,  Telex:  674770  Addmaster 
SGAB 


TTye  SoftwSre  Toolwdrks 


H89/H8/Z89 

SOFTWARE  TOOLS  THAT  WORK 
MYCHESS  ■  Now  on  H89  -  $34.95 

Win ner- 1 980  West  Coast  Computer  Faire 

•  FULL  SCREEN  EDITORS 

For  Text  Files  For  Graphics 

•  TEXT  PROCESSING: 

TEXT  Formatter 

•  LANGUAGES:  C,  LISP.  Z80  and 

8080  Macro  Assemblers 

•  UTILITIES      •      GAMES 

Only  $19.95 -$39.95 

All  run  under  HDOS  snmp  avaiiahlp  for  CP'M 

Available  at  most  Heathkjt  slurea  or  from 

THE  SOFTWARE  TOOLWORKS 

1 4478  Glonetta  Dnve 

Sherman  Oaks.  Calif  91423 

(213)986-4885 


Meainn<r 
CPM6 


e  man.  ot  Heath  Lompar 


Circle  345  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  346  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  347  on  inquiry  card. 


EVERY  MONTH 

BUY,  SELL  OR  TRADE  ALL  TYPES  OF 
COMPUTER  EQUIPMENT  AND  SOFT- 
WARE (pre-owned  and  new)  among 
20,000  readers  nationwide  in  BIG 
(11x14")  pages.  Classified  ads  are 
only  10*  per  word  and  are  indexed  for 
easy  and  fast  location.  Subscription: 
$10  a  year/12  issues.  Money  back 
guarantee. 

camPUTSR  showbr 

P.O.  Box  F-14 

Titusville,  FL  32780 

(305)  269-321 1 

MasterCharge  or  VISA  orders  only. 

Call  TOLL  FREE  800-327-9920 


...odd  the 

sound  dimension 
to  your  system 

Soundboard  uses  two  Gl  flV 
3-8910  LC.'s  to  generate 
sound  effects  under  software 
control.  PCB  onlu  $34.95. 
Send  for  additional  informa- 
tion, check  or  money  order  to; 
\m  I  ©  oil  ffl|f«e»n« 

MB       IB      fa  I J  «kSNHI 

Ackerman 

**  Digital  Systems,  Inc. 

1 10  North  York  Road  •  Suite  208 

Elmhurst,  Illinois  60126 

Tel   312-530-8992 

(Illinois  residents  add  5%  state  sales  tax. 


Circle  348  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  349  on  inquiry  card. 


'bird' 

TM 

Versatile  Interface  Peripheral  Board 
Serial/ Parallel  I/O  For  The  Apple  II 

SERIAL  FEATURES:  Software  Baud  Rate  Select  • 
50-19.2  K  Baud  •  Crystal  Controlled  •  Partial  26 
Pin  Connector  Strapping  •  RS232C 

PARALLEL  FEATURES:  Centronics  Compatible  • 
Full  34  Pin  I/O  Connector  Strapping  •  16 I/O  Lines 
+  4  Handshakes 

ALSO:  256  Bytes  On  Board  Ram  •  ALL  COLD 

Connectors/Sockets  •  6  Foot  34  Conductor  Ribbon 
Cable  With  Centronics  Compatible  Connector  •  3 
Foot  Serial  Ribbon  Cable  With  Male  DB25  Connec- 
tor •  90  Day  Limited  Warranty  •  Documentation 
with  Driver  Software 

SMS  *  VIP              S169.95  ea  A  &  T 
Shipping  Add  2.0%   •  Texas  Residents  Add  5% 
Sales  Tax  •  Payment  By  Check  or  Money  Order 

BIRD  *  BOARDS 
Southwestern  Management  Services,  Ltd. 

Box  7277  Austin  Texas  78712                        I 
Phone  512-327-1834                                  1 

Circle  350  on  inquiry  card. 

DEALS  □  DEALS  □  DE/US 


OUR  BUYERS  ARE  IN 

CONTACT  WITH  EVERY  MAJOR 

SUPPLIER  AND  O.E.M. 

BUY  HERE  AT  1000  PIECE 

QUANTITY  PRICES 

ALL  MERCHANDISE  100% 

GUARANTEED!  15  DAY  FULL 

CASH  REFUND! 


?,  f?^   MICRO 
IVI.fll.      SALES 


JUST  HOT  STUFF 


POWER  SUPPLIES 


If  you  can  beat  these 
prices  we  will  be  truly 
amazed.  OEM's  at  500 
lot  pay  more  than  this. 
Call  or  write  for  full 
spec,  sheets. 


DISK  POWER  SUPPLIES 

PRIAM-SHUGART-CENTURY-MICROPOL1S 

+5V@9A     |-5V@.8A   |+24V@7A      I  US-384 

89.00 

SHUGART-SIEMANS-MPI   554" 

+5V@.5A 

+12V@.9A 

|  US-340 

33.50 

+5V  9  2A 

+12V@>4A 

I  US-323 

56.25 

SHUGART-SIEMANS-CDC  8" 

+5V(5>1A 

-5V@.5A 

+24V@  1.5A 

US-205 

52.50 

+5V@2A 

-5V@.5A 

+24V  @  3A 

US-206 

69.00 

+5V  @  3A 

-5V@.6A 

+24V  @  5A 

US-162 

89.00 

+5V@  1.7A 

-5VP1.5A 

+24V@2A 

US-272 

69.00 

+BV  ®  2A 

+  12V  @.4A 

-12V@.4A 

US-HTAA 

37.50 

TELEVIDEO  912C 


$665.00 

Also  have  920C,  SOROC, 
HAZELTINE,  etc.  What 
we  don't  have  is  room  on 
this  page.  Call  Toll  Free 
800  number  for  prices. 


C-ITOH  PRINTER 
$499.00 

Look  closely  at  the 

photo  and  see  other 

adds  in  this  rag  at 

$995.00.  Perfect  units, 

warranteed.  Only  500  pes.  Same  story, 

manufacturerer  had  too  many. 


ATARI 


800  -  $899.00 
400  -  $499.00 

As  long  as  there  is  a 
price  war,  we  will  fight 
your  battle.  Compare 
at  your  local  Dept. 
store  and  buy  U$  MICRO. 


S-100  POWER 


$49.50 

Simple  Brute  Force! 

S-100  Power  Supply, 

30A  @  +8V, 

6A  @  +16V, 

6A  @  -16V, 

PC  Board  Design. 


664  N.  MICHIGAN  AVE.   •  SUITE  1076  •  CHICAGO,  ILLINOIS  60611 

CALL  TOLL  FREE:  1-800-435-9357 

(ILLINOIS  RESIDENTS  CALL:  815-485-4002) 

TERMS:  Prepayment  -  C.O.D.  up  to  $100.00  -  M/C,  Visa 

Please  allow  personal  check  to  clear  before  shipment. 


WRITE  FOR  FULL  CATALOG! 


SPECIAL  OF  THE  QUARTER      SPECIALS  OF  THE  MONTH 


DUAL  DRIVE  SUBSYSTEM 

$995.00       | 

If  this  looks  like  a  Lobo 
Drive  System,  don't  be         2  SHUGART  801  R 
fooled.  Just  because  it  POWER  SUPPLY 

looks  like  one,  works  like  one,  smells  like  one, 
and  tastes  like  one  (?)  doesn't  mean  it  has  to 
cost  like  one! 


S1-MOD  (KIT) 

$239.00 


4r 


Complete  S-100  12  Slot  Computer.  Ample 
system  power  with  regulated  power  for  drives. 
Excellent  for  Subsystem  or  Hobby  use. 
4  hours  to  build.  (6    conn,  incl.,  less  fans) 


EXPANDABLE  RAM  (KIT) 


This  is  the  best  all 
around  64K  board 
you  can  buy.  If  after 
you  see  it,  you  don't 
agree  return  (unassem- 
bled) for  full  refund. 
Bank  Select  by  extended  address  lines. 

32K  -  $380.00        64K  -  $450.00 


32K  STATIC  (KIT) 


You  have  seen  this 
well  known  board 
around  for  years.  We 
bought  500  of  them 
and  plan  on  cornering 
the  market!  Bank 
Select  on  extended 
address  lines. 


MMMMVAMr*"1! 


rr^: 


$388.00 


Z-80  CPU  (KIT) 


The  first  time  this 
world  popular  CPU 
offered  in  Kit.  2  serial, 
3  parallel,  CTC,  EProm 
Z-80  at  4  mhz.  Software 
buad  rate,  etc. (less  Prom) 


$212.00 


DMA  DISK  CONTROLLER  (KIT) 


How  many  DMA  Disk 
Controllers  are  there 
on  the  market?  Can't 
mention  the  name  at 
this  LOW,  LOW,  LOW, 
price. 


$265.00 


12  SLOT  MOTHER 

We  have  connectors  and  power 
supply  too.  Start  your  system 
with  quality  components. 
Terminated. 
CONNECTORS  $3.50  ea. 


$22.50 


4116s 


Expansion  16K  Dynamic 
RAMs  for  Apple,  TRS-80 
S-100  systems.  T.  I.,  Mostek 
Intel,  Call  for  manufacturer. 


$4.25 

200  NS 


DIP-80      $399.00 


4      h 


Don't  be  mislead  by  this 
LOW  price.  This  is  a  rug- 
ged 100%  Duty  Cycle 
7  by  7  Dot  Matrix  Printer,  j 
Brand  new,  factory  warr. 

•  RS  232  ADD  $65.00 
•  TRACTOR  FEED  ADD  $70.00 


2114s 


One  of  the  world's  two 

most  popular  STATIC 

RAMs.  Factory  prime 

tested  units.  Sold  in  lots  of  8  only. 

FUJITSU,  HITACHI,  etc. 


$3.95 


200  NS 


TMS-4044 
MM-5257 
INTEL  2147 


$4.25 

250  NS 


The  other  of  the  world's  most  popular  STATIC 
RAMs.  This  one  is  4K  by  1  organization.  Don't 
buy  Gold,  buy  these,  the  price  won't  last! 


2716s      $13.50  (450  NS) 
2708s         $6.95  (450  NS) 

Remember  when  2716s  were  $50.00  and  hard 
to  get?  These  units  are  so  beautiful  it's  hard  to 
part  with  them.  But  we  will,  for  a  small  price. 
Guaranteed! 


SHUGART  DRIVE 

8"  851 R  $585.00 


8"    801R 

$385.00 


Manufacturer  had 

too  many,  buys  at 

1000  piece  rate, 

sales  dropped,  so  we  got'em.  Fantastic  buy 

them  while  they  last!    Full  warranty. 


get 


51/4"  MINI 

$265.00 


Now  is  the  time  to 

expand  that  Trash-80 

or  Rotton  Apple  (no  offense!)  These  go  so  fast. 

Quantities  limited  to  those  on  hand.    Hurry  ! 

No  Junkers!    Factory  warranty. 

SHUGART  /  SIEMANS  /  MPI 


Circle  351  on  Inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980        405 


Manufacturers, 

Dealers  and 

Endusers 

We  buy,  sell,  trade  and  accept 
consignment  on  all  new  and 
used  Micro  Computers  and 
Peripherals. 

(602)  954-6109 


COmPUTCR 
WAREHOUSE 


2222  E.  Indian  School  Rd. 
Phoenix,  Arizona  85016 


assa&tfsas'" 

PREDICTS  CASH  CRUNCH 


DETERMINES  OPTIHUH  CASHFLOW 
USING  PAYMENT  PRIORITIES  AND 
RECEIVABLE  PROBABLITIES 

MEASURES  IMPACT  OF  POSSIBLE 
PURCHASES  ON  CASHFLOW 

OOCUMENTS  FINANCIAL  ABILITY 

Cl"*^]  *~H — I   Ready  to  pun 
^  lc=-<^>    0n  CP/M  system. 

ALPHA-OMEGA  SYSTEMS,  INC. 

1  504  3RD  AVE.   SUITE  700 
SEATTLE,  WA   98101 


(206)    622-2719 


I 


-/        NEW!!! 

32K  Static  Memory  Board 
For  Digital  Group  Systems 

New  Layout 

64  K  Addressing  Decoded 

Dip  Switch  Selectable 

I/O  Mapped  Addressing  to  2S6K 

On  Board  Battery  Back  Up 

Power  Failure  Inputs 

VLSI  COMPUTER  SYSTEMS 

601  W.  5th  Street,  Suite  103 

Los  Angeles,  C A  90017 

213-623-8682 


~\ 


r 


Circle  362  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  363  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  364  on  inquiry  card. 


LOW  PRICES 


HP  85 $2925 

Atari  400 $   475 

Centronics  737 $   875 

Base  2  800  MST *  629 

Diablo  630  $2439 

NEC  Spinwriter $2695 

MPI88T $   675 

Code-a-phone  1 750 $   259 

Verbatim  disks $      30 

5"  or  8"  cases $        3 

Novation  D-CAT $    165 


SP  ELECTRONICS 

P.O.  Box  8265 
Sacramento.  CA  95818 
(916)  442-2323 


SHORT 
CASSETTES 


JkL 


10  for 
S7.50 


50  for 
S32  50 


Premium  tape  and  cassettes  acclaimed  by 
thousands  of  repeat  order  microcomputer 
users.  Price  includes  labels,  cassette  box 
and  shipping  in  continental  U.S.A.  VISA 
and  M  C  orders  accepted.  California  resi- 
dents add  sales  tax.  Phone  (415)  968-160'! 
24  hours. 


MICROSETTE  CO. 

475  Ellis  Street 
Mt.  View,  CA  94043 


Floppy  Disk  Drives 
35%  OFF  LIST 

Rebuilt,  tested,  like-new,  with 
90-day  Warranty 

$235°°ea. 

Any  auantity,  while  supply  lasts 

Also  available: 
New  and  like-new  Pertec  24MB.  10MB, 
Cartridge  Hard  Disk  Drives,  Magnetic 
Tape  Drives  and  Controllers. 

Call,  write  or  TWX  for  more  info. 
IBEX  COMPUTER  CORPORATION 

18730  Oxnard  St.,  Tarzana,  CA  91356 

(213)705-2517 
VISA  and  Mastercharge  accepted  n 


Circle  365  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  366  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  367  on  inquiry  card. 


MULTIMUSIC 


PLAY  MULTI-VOICE  MUSIC  ON  YOUR 
APPLE  ][.  NO  HARDWARE  CHANGES. 
MACHINE  LANGUAGE  MULTIPLEXES 
1  TO  12  PARTS,  OR  MORE  WITH 
REDUCED  QUALITY.  LO-RES  GRAPH- 
ICS SHOWS  VOICES  CURRENTLY 
PLAYING.  STANDARD  NOTE  NAMES 
WITH  DIRECTIONS  AND  SAMPLES 
INCLUDED.  REQUIRES  APPLE  ][  PLUS 
(OR  ROMCARD),  32K,  DISK  ][. 

SC1408  -  DISKETTE  $39.00 

VISA/MASTERCARD  ACCEPTED. 

SONORA  COMPUTING 

P.O.  BOX  4841 
ALBUQUERQUE,  N.M.  87196 


WE  HAVE 

8039 

MICROCOMPUTERS 
NEW  PRIME  PARTS 

•TIMER  APPLICATIONS 

•  CLOCKS 

•  SYSTEM  CONTROLLERS 

•  KEYBOARD  ENCODING 
•5  VOLT  SUPPLY  6MHz 

»  ETC. 

SEND  CHECK  FOR 
IMMEDIATE  DELIVERY 

1-5  $19         6-25  $15 

OVER  25  $10 

MARSHALL  PHILLIPS 

U.S.I.,  DEPT.  37 

10324  S.  DOLFIELD  ROAD 

OWINGS  MILLS,  MD  21117 

(301)  363-3000  TELEX:  8-7675 


SIS!  IK.  IV 


OSI&TRSDOS 
SOFTWARE 


CIVIL  ENGINEERS 
SURVEYORS 

•  Water  Distribution 

Network  Analysis 

•  Pressure  Sewers 

•  Coordinate  Geometry 

•  Matrix  Algebra 

•  Roadway  Alignment 

SYSTEK,  INC. 

P.  O.  Drawer  J  J 

Miss.  State,  MS  39762 


Circle  368  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  369  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  370  on  inquiry  card. 


WE  WILL  NOT  BE  UNDERSOLD 


16K  MEMORY  UPGRADE  KITS     2forss5  $45 

for  TRS-80*,  Apple  II,  (specify):  Jumpers         $2.50 

PRINTERS         NEC  Spinwriter 

Letter  Quality  High  Speed  Printer 

Includes  TRS-80*  interface  software,  quick 
change  print  fonts,  55  cps,  bidirectional, 
high  resolution  plotting,  graphing,  propor- 
tional spacing:  R.O.  $2550 
R.O.  with  Tractor  Feed  $2650  KSR  with  Tractor  Feed  $2950 
779  CENTRONICS  TRACTOR  FEED  PRINTER  $969 

Same  as  Radio  Shack  line  printer  I 

737  CENTRONICS  FRICTION  &  PIN  FEED  PRINTER  $799 

9x7  matrix  Same  as  Radio  Shack  line  printer  IV 

730  CENTRONICS  FRICTION  &  PIN  FEED  PRINTER  $629 

7x7  matrix  Same  as  Radio  Shack  line  printer  II 

P1  CENTRONICS  PRINTER  Same  as  Radio  Shack  quick  printer  $269 
PAPER  TIGER  (IP440)  Includes  2K  buffer  and  graphics  option  $879 

(IP460)  Bidirectional,  160  cps,  graphics  and  2K  buffer  $1075 
TI-810   Faster  than  Radio  Shack  line  printer  III.  Parallel  and 

serial  w/TRS-80*  interface  software  w/u  +  I  case  &  paper  tray  $1 589 

Compressed  print,  vertical  form  control  $1865 

OKIDATA  Microline  80  Friction  and  pin  feed  $549 

Tractor  Feed,  friction,  and  pin  feed  $649 

Microline  83  Bidirectional,  120  cps,  uses  up  to  15"  paper  $1050 

EATON  LRC  7000  +  64  columns,  plain  paper  $299 

ANADEX                  DP-9500         $1359                  DP-8000  $825 

CAT  MODEM  Works  same  as  Radio  Shack  Telephone  Interface  II  $148 

LEEDEX  MONITOR  Video  100  $119 

ZENITH  Color  Monitor  $379 

SANYO  Model  VM  4509  9"  Monitor  $155 

DISK  OPERATING  SYSTEMS 


for  Model  II,  Altos 
40track 


$  8.95 
$169.00 
$  99.00 
$135.00 


PATCHPAK  #4  by  Percom  Data 
CP/M®  for  Model  I,  Zenith     $145 
NEWDOS  Plus 
NEWDOS80 

ACCESSORIES 

HEAD  CLEANING  DISKETTE:  Cleans  drive  Read/Write  head  in 
30  seconds.  Diskettes  absorb  loose  oxide  particles,  fingerprints, 
and  other  foreign  particles  that  might  hinder  the  performance  of 
the  drive  head.  Lasts  at  least  3  months  with  daily  use.  Specify 
51/4"or8".  $20  ea/$45  for  3 

FLOPPY  SAVER:  Protection  for  center  holes  of  5% "  floppy  disks. 
Only  1  needed  per  diskette.  Kit  contains  centering  post,  pressure 
tool,  tough  7-mil  mylar  reinforcing  rings.  Installation  tools  and 
rings  for  25  diskettes.  $  11.95  Re-orders  of  rings  only  $  7.95 
EXTERNAL  DATA  SEPARATOR:  Eliminates  data  separation  prob- 
lems (crc).  Improves  reliability.  This  plug  in  unit  comes  fully 
assembled  and  tested.  $  29.95 

RS232  $ 

TRS232:  Teletype  current  loop  output  from  cassette  port    $ 
DISK-DRIVE  EXTENDER  CABLES:  Fits  all  mini-disk  drives 

$ 
SIX  (6)  PRONG  ISOLATOR:  ISO  2  $ 

AC  FILTER/6  PRONG  POWER  STRIP  $ 

DISK  DRIVE  CABLES:  2  drive     $29.00  4  drive 

DUST  COVERS:  TRS-80/Apple 

PLASTIC  DISKETTE  HOLDER:  For  ring  binder,  holds  20 
RF  MODULATOR:  Adapts  video  to  TV 
TRS-80  &  OTHER  MYSTERIES 

NEC  SPINWRITER  THIMBLE       $19.95  RIBBON 

CCS  CARDS:  Parallel  or  serial 


84.00 
49.00 

16.95 
$  54.00 
$  39.00 
$  35.00 
$  7.95 
8.00 
35.00 
18.95 
6.95 


$115.00 


FOR  TRS-80* 

CCI-100 

CCI-280 

CCI-800 

For  Zenith  Z89 

CCI-189 

Z-87 


DISK  DRIVES  $314 

40  track,  102K  Bytes.  Fully  assembled  and 
tested.  Ready  to  plug-in  and  run  the  moment 
you  receive  it.  Can  be  intermixed  with  each 
other  and  Radio  Shack  drive  on  same  cable. 
TRS-80*  compatible  silver  enclosure.  90  day 
warranty.  One  year  on  power  supply.  External 
card  edge  included. 

5V4",  40  Track  (102K  Bytes)  for  Model  I  $314 
51/4",  80  Track  (204K  Bytes)  for  Model  I  $549 

8"  Drive  for  Model  II  (%  Meg  Bytes)  $795 


51/4",  40  Track  (102K  Bytes)  add-on  drive  $394 

Dual  5  Vt"  add-on  drive  system  $995 

DISKETTES  —  Box  of  1 0  (5 '/« ") - with  plastic  library  case  $24 

8"  double  density  for  Model  II  (box  of  10)  $36 

COMPLETE  SYSTEMS 

ALTOS  64K,  DD,  SS,  2-Drive,  1  MB 

APPLE  16K 

TRS-80*  Model  II-64K 

TRS-80*  LEVEL  II-16K  with  keypad 

TRS-80*  Expansion  Interface 

HEWLETT  PACKARD  HP-85 

ZENITH  Z89, 48K  all-in-one  computer 

ZENITH  Z19 

TELEVIDEO      912B$745      912C$755 

ATARI  400  $489 

APF         Game  Only  $99 

MATTEL  INTELLIVISION 


$3995 

$989 

$3499 

$689 

$249 

$2950 

$2500 

$735 

920B  $769      920C  $779 

ATARI  800  $749 

Complete  System  $499 

$229 


Software  available  for  all  Complete  Systems 


SOFTWARE  FOR  THE  TRS-80*  SB? 


INTELLIGENT  TERMINAL  SYSTEM  ST80-HI  BY 
LANCE  MIKLUS:  Enables  a  TRS-80*  to  act  as  a  dial 
up  terminal  on  any  standard  time  sharing  network. 
Provides  a  TRS-80'  with  control  key.  ESC  Key, 
Repeat  Key.  Rub  Out  Key,  Break  Key,  full  upper  and 
lower  case  support,  selectable  printer  output  and 
program  selectable  transmission  rates  $139 

CCA-DATA  MANAGEMENT  SYSTEM:  Automate  your 
information  processing  tasks  You  can  create  a  file  of 
customer  information,  quickly  and  easily  add.  delete 
or  update  records;  search  a  file;  keep  a  tile  m  order  of 
the  value  m  any  field,  and  print  records  and  labels  in 
any  desired  sequence  or  from  just  a  part  of  a  file. 
Requires  32K  TRS-80  and  one  drive. S72.00 

S  &  M  SYSTEMS 

INSEQ  80'":  Indexed  Sequential  Access  Method 
(ISAM)  for  the  TRS-80  Model  I  A  must  for  anyone  writ- 
ing business  programs  Eliminate  wasted  disk  space 
from  direct  record  processing  Split  second  access  to 
any  record  Access  data  records  instantly  via  alpha/ 
numeric  "key"  eg  Part  NR,  2tp  code  or  sequentially  In 
ascending  key  sequence  Add/modify  records  in  any 
order   Access  up  to  three  tiles  per  program  — Files 


may  be  spread  over  multiple  disks  Machine  language 
processing  from  your  basic  program  Utility  program 
to  convert  direct  files  to  lNSEQ-80  format  $49.00 

FULLY    INTERACTIVE   ACCOUNTING    PACKAGE: 

ISAM  (INSEQ-80)  based  includes  General  Ledger, 
Accounts  Payable.  Accounts  Receivable  and  Payroll 
System  runs  "stand  alone"  or  "co-ordinated  G/L"  at 
users  option.  Based  on  Osborne  accounting  method 
Requires  32K.  TRS-80.  2  or  3  drives  N/A  CA 

Gvfwal  Ladgw  $99 

Accounts  R«colvaWa  $99 

Accounts  Payabtt  $99 

Payroll  $99 

Osborne  books:  Req'd  as  additional  documentation 
$20  ea 

INVENTORY  Requires  32K.  TRS-80.  1  drive  $125 

INSORT-80:  Callable  form  BASIC  via  USR  Sorts    Ran 

dom  '  Disk  Files  "Disk"  to  "Disk"  sort  times  — 350 
records  in  36  sees,  1000  records  m  6  minutes.  3500 
records  in  12  minutes  Machine  language  processing 
Up  to  35  sort  keys  ascending /descending.  Utility  to 
build  BASIC  program  Runs  under  NEWDOS     (4995 


CP/M®  BASED  SOFTWARE  for 
Zenith,  Altos,  Radio  Shack,  Apple 


2-aO  SOFTCARD  FOR  APPLE:  Your  key  to  future  soft 
ware  expansion  Get  the  best  of  both  worlds.  Apple's 
6502  and  CP/M  Z80   Plug  in  the  card  and  get  a  Z80 

Supports  Apple  language  card  and  all  Apple  peripher- 
als Comes  with  set  of  three  manuals  $339 

CCI-TELNET  VERSION  5:  A  communication  Package 
which  enables  microcomputer  users  to  communicate 
both  with  Large  Mainframes  and  other  microcom- 
puters Extensive  commands  make  it  useful  in  many 
applications  where  communication  between  com- 
puters is  necessary  Powerful  terminal  mode  enabling 
user  to  save  all  data  from  a  session  on  disk.  Com- 
pletely  CP/M   compatible.   Multiple  communication 


protocols  supported  Able  to  transfer  files  in  both 
directions  without  protocol  where  the  other  machine 
does  not  Support  any  protocol  Extensive  ON- 
SCREEN help  Source  code  provided  $149 

MICROPRO-WORD-STAR:  Menu  driven  visual  word 
processing  system  for  use  with  standard  terminals. 
Text  formatting  performed  on  screen  Facilities  for  text 
paginate,  page  number,  justify,  center  and  underscore 
User  can  print  one  document  while  simultaneously 
editing  a  second  Edit  facilities  include  global  search 
and  replace  Read/Write  to  other  text  files,  block 
move,  etc  Requires  CRT  terminal  with  addressable 
Cursor  positioning.  $399 


5  Dexter  Row,  Dept.BUM 
Charlestown,  Massachusetts  02129 

Massachusetts  residents  add 
5%  sales  tax 

Quantities  on  some  items  are  limited 


VISA' 


dealer  (national/international)  inquiries  invited        Send  for  FREE  Catalogue 


The  CPU  SHOP 

TO  ORDER  CALL  TOLL  FREE  1-800-343-6522 

Massachusetts  residents  call  (617)242-3361 
For  detailed  technical  information,  call  617/242-3361 
Hours:  10AM-6PM  (EST)M-F(Sat.till  5) 
*TRS-80  is  a  Tandy  Corporation  Trademark  "Digital  Research 


master  charge 


Circle  361  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980 


407 


DISKETTES 

For  record  reliability  and  quali- 
ty buy  3M  Scotch  Diskettes.  All 
Diskettes  are  in  stock  for  im- 
mediate shipment  Call  TOLL 
FREE  (800)  235-4137  for  prices 
and  information.  Visa  and  Mas- 
ter Card  accepted.  All  orders 
sent  postage  paid. 


PACIFIC 
EXCHANGES 

100  Foothill  Blvd 
San  Luis  Obispo.  CA 
93401    (InCal  call 
(805)543-1037) 


Close- 
Out 


Desk  Top  Computer 


This  unit  is  a  computerized  Electronic  Secre- 
tary It  keepstime.  date,  calendar,  message,  and 
meeting  files  Originally  sold  thru  a  major  mail 
order  house  for  over  $450  00 

Technically,  it's  a  6507  MICRO,  ROM,  Ram. 
Planaplex  Alpha  Display.  Ni-cad  Battery.  Power 
Supply,  Keyboard,  Wood  and  Aluminum  Case 
with  Schematic  and  Instructions 

Most  of  these  Computers  are  warranty  returns 
We  are  offering  refurbished  like  new  units  for 
$99.95  and  as  is  (most  have  minor  problems) 
units  for  $44.95  Add  $4.95  per  unit  for  shipping 
and  handling  per  unit  ordered  All  units  are 
complete  as  described  All  sales  are  final 
California  Residents  add  6  5%  Sales  Tax 

Send  Payment  and  Order  to: 

Solid  State  Surplus 

P.O.  Box  3241 8/San  Jose,  CA  951 52 


FOR  SALE: 

Unused  Polymorphic 
System  8813  with  32K  Ram 
Memory  with  floppy  disk 
drives,  printer  interface  and 
Abern-Sopher  Multiwriter 
III.  System  has  Canadian 
import  tax  paid.  Offers  for 
complete  system  to: 

Bishop  Management, 

#8-825  McBride  Blvd., 
New  Westminster,  B.  C, 
Canada,  V3L  5B5. 
(604)  525-8148. 


Circle  352  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  353  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  354  on  inquiry  card. 


OmniFORTH 

FOR  NORTH  STAR  DOS 


•  Based  on  fig-FORTH 

•  8080  Compatible  (SOLS,  IMSAI,  etc.) 

•  Excellent  users  manual  and  installation 
documentation 

•  Includes  the  interactive  OmniFORTH 
compiler,  Text  EDITOR,  File  system 
utilities,  and  8080  +  Z80  ASSEMBLER 

•  Requires  North  Star  DOS  and  24K  memory 

•  Specify  disk  density  (SD  or  DD/0D) 

•  Price  $64.95  plus  $2.00  S&H 

(Florida  residents  add  4%  sales  tax  US  Funds  only 
Additional  shipping  charges  outside  US  A.) 

•  INTERACTIVE 

B    COMPUTER  SYSTEMS,  INC. 

aVT         6403  OiMarco  Rd. -Tampa.  FL  33614 


$*& 


»  •  Worif 


Skylcs  Electric  Works 

23 1  E  South  Whisman  Road 
Mountain  View,  CA  9404 1 


SURPLUS  ELECTRONICS 


ASCII 


ASCII 


TRS-80*  COMPATIBLE,  IBM 
SELECTRIC®    BASED  I/O  TERMINAL 

with  ASCII  conversion  installed:  $645.00 


Many  Other  Items  Available:  Tape  Drives: 
Cable:  Cassette  Drives;  Wire;  Power  Supplies 
(5  volt  35  amp,  others);  Displays;  Cabinets; 
Transformers;  Heat  Sinks;  Printers;  Com- 
ponents. 

Send  for  Free  Catalog 

WORLDWIDE  ELECTRONICS,  INC. 

130  Northeastern  Blvd. 

Nashua,  N.H.  03062 

Phone  orders  accepted  using  VISA  or  MC 

Toll  Free  1-800-258-1036 

in  NH  603-889-7661 

*TRS-80  is  a  trademark  of  the  Radio  Shack 

Division  of  Tandy  Corporation. 


Circle  355  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  356  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  357  on  inquiry  card. 


J  and  5  Computers 

2247  Shetland  Road 
Livermore,  Ca.  94550 


Texas  Instruments 

99/4  Computer $1090.00 

810  Basic  Printer  (100)  $1600.00 

810  Full  ASC  II  (201)   $1695.00 

Exidy 

32K  Sorcerer $1074.00 

48K  Sorcerer $1205.00 

Lobo  Disks 

SA  400  in  cabinet  w/power  supply $410.00 

3101  I  SA  400  for  Apple  w/interface   . .  $487.00 
SA  801  in  cabinet  w/power  supply $780.00 

Centronics 

730-1  Parallel  $670.00 

730-3  Serial $715.00 

and  more. ..send  $1 .50  for  a  catalogue 

California  residents  add  6%  sales  tax 

All  orders,  add  3%  shipping  and  handling 


ATARI  OWNERS 


Parallel  Printer  Interface 
for  the  ATARI  400  /  800 

Connects  to  controller  jacks  3A4 
works  with  BASIC  /  DOS  /  ASSEMBLER 
Three  printer  connectors  available: 

ATARI  400   /    800 

TRENDCOM100/200  A4P-1  A8P-1 
CENTRONICS  730  /  737  A4P-2  A8P-2 
CENTRONICS  36  PIN*         A4P-3     A8P-3 

•Fits  all  other  parallel  Centronics  plus  Anadex, 
Base  2,  Epson,  Comprint  and  Microtek. 
Order  by  part  number,  MC  /  VtSA  accepted. 


$69.95 

W  W   ♦CAsal 


les  add  6%  tax 

IICS,  inc.® 

119.3  N.  Golden  State 
Turlock,  CA  93380  (A) 
(909)  6*7-888*  /  634-8888 


,    j     RESOLUTION 

MR       005" 


DRUM 
DIGITAL 
PLOTTER 

PRINTERS 

COLOR  GRAPHICS  FROM 

SMALL  PLOTTERS  WITH 

DIG  IDEAS. 

But  draw  the  line  on  price. That's  practical! 

232  SERIAL  IN 

FROM      $310.       SOFTWARE  FURNISHED 

WRITE  FOR  DETAILS  TO 

X-Y   ENTERPRISES    P.O.   BOX    796 

HUNTSVILLE      ALA.    35804 

PHONE  (205)  5344177 


Circle  358  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  359  on  inquiry  card. 


Circle  360  on  inquiry  card. 


yc/t- 


ELECTRONICS 


INTEGRATED  CIRCUITS 


P.O.  Box4430X 
Santa  Clara,  CA  95054 

Will  calls:  2322  Walsh  Ave. 
(408)  988-1640 

Same  day  shipment.  First  line  parts  only    Factory  tested. 
Guaranteed  money  back   Quality  IC's  and  other  compo- 
nents at  factory  prices. 


740DTTL 

7400N 

7402N 

7404N 

7409N 

741  ON 

7414N 

742QN 

7422N 

7430N 

7442N 

7445N 

7447N 

7448N 

7450N 

7474N 

7475N 

7485N 

7489N  l 

7490N 

7492N 

7493N 

7495N 

74100N  l 

74107N 

74121N 

741 23N 

741 25N 

74145N 

741 50N  1 

74151N 

741S4N  2 

74157N 

74161N 

74162N  1 

74163N 

741 74N 

74175N 

74190N  1 

74192N 

74193N 

74221 M  2 

74298N  ! 

74365N 

74366N 

74367N 

Ml  Still  TIL 

74LS0ON 

74LS02N 

74LS04N 

74LS05N 

74LS06N 

74LS10N 

74LS13N 

74LS14N  1 

74LS20N 

74LS22N 

74LS28N 

74LS30N 

74LS33N 

74LS36N 

74LS74N  1 

74LS75N  1 

74LS90N         1 

74LS93N  l 

74LS95N  1 

74LS107N 

74IS112N 

74LS1I3N 

74LS132N 

74LS136N 

741S151N        t 

74LS155N       1 

74LS157N       1 

74LS162N       1 

74LS163N        I 

74LS174N       1 

74LS190N       1 

74LS221N       2 

74LS258N       1 

74LS367N        1 

UNUR 

CA3045 
CA3046  1 

CA3081  1 

CA3Q82  1 

CA3089  2 

LM30tAN.AH 
LM305H 
LM307N 
LM308N  1 

LM309K  1 

LM311H.N 
LM31 7T/K       3 
LM318  1 

LM320K-5        I 


LM323K-5  595 

LM320K-12  150 

LM320K-15  t  50 

IM320T-5  1.35 

LM320T-8  1  35 

LM320T-12  1  35 

IM32QT-15  1  35 

LM324N  1  40 

■    LM339N  1  00 

LM340K-5  1  35 

LM340K-8  I  35 

LM340K-12  1  35 

LM340K-15  1  35 

LM340K-24  1  35 

LM340T-5  1  25 

LM340T-8  1  25 

LM340T  12  1  25 

LM340T-15  125 

LM340T  IB  1  25 

LMWOT-24  1  25 
LM350 


IM377 

LM379 

LM380N 

LM381 

LM382 

LM703H 

LM709H 

LM723H.-N 

LM733N 

LM741CH 

LM741N 

LM747H/N 

LM748N 

L.M13D3N 

LM1304 

LM1305 

LM1307 


L.M2902 

LM3900N 

IM3905 

LM3909N 

MC1458V 

NE550N 

NE555V 

NFS56A 

NE565A 

NE566V 

NE567V 

NE570B 

7BL05 

7BL.08 

7BM05 

75108 

7549 1CN 

75492CN 

75494CN 


B700CJ 

870 1CN        ! 

8750CJ 

L0130 

9400CJVF 

ICL7I03 

ICL7107 

CMOS 

C04000 
C04001 
CD4002 
CD4006 
C04007 
CD400S 
CD4009 
CD4O10 
C0401I 
CD4012 
CD4013 
CD4014 
CD4015 
CD4016 
CD4017 
CC4018 
CLT4019 
CD4020 
CD4021 
CD4022 
CO4023 
CD4024 
CD 4025 


3.50 


CD4026 
CD4027 
CDWS 
CD4029 
CD4030 
CO4035 
0)4040 
C04042 
C04043 
CD4044 
CO4046 
CD 4049 
CO4050 
CD4051 
CD4O60 
CD4066 
CO4068 
CD4069 
CD4070 
C04071 
CD4072 
CD4073 
CD4075 
CD4076 
CD407B 
CD 4081 
CD4082 
CD4116 
CD4490 
CD4507 
CD4508 
CD45I0 
CD45T1 
CD4515 
CD4516 
CD4518 
CD4520 
CD4527 
CD4528 
CD4553 
CD456E 
CD4583 
CD4585 
CD40192 
74C00 
74C04 
74C10 
74C14 
74C20 
74C30 
74C48 
74C74 
74C76 
74C90 
74C93 
74C1 54 
74C160 
74C175 
74C192 
74C221 
74C905 
74C906 
74C914 
74C922 
II  74C923 
74C925 
74C926 
74C927 


8097 
8098 
8T09 
BTlO 
8T13 
BT20 
8T23 
BT24 
BT25 
8T26 
8T28 
8T97 

eras 


4116  200ns  7  95 
8/4116  200is49.00 

25136  6.30 

MM5262  40 

MM5280  3  00 

MM5320  9  95 

MM5330  5  94 

P0411D-3  4  00 

P041ID-4  5  00 

P5101L  8.95 

4200A  995 

82S25  2  90 

91LD2A  150 

HD0165-5  6  95 

MM57100  4  50 

GIAV38500-1  9  95 

MCM66751A  9  95 

9368  3  50 

410D  1001 

416  16  01 

CLOCKS 

MM5311  5.50 

MM5312  3.90 

MM5314  3  90 

MM5369  I  10 

MM  5841  14  45 

MM5865  795 

CT7Q10  895 

CT7015  8.95 
MM5375AA/N  3.90 
MM5375AG/N   4.90 


IC  SOCKETS 

Soloer  Tin  law  Prw 
PIM     1  UP    PIN     1 


WIRE  WRAP  LEVEL  3 


16       33      26     1  0 


DS0026CN 
DS0056CN 
MM53104 


6820 
6850 
8080A 


10  MH/ 
IBMHi 
20MKi 
32  MHl 
32768  m 

1  8432  MH; 
3.5795  MH; 

2  0100  MH/ 

2  !!9ri':.2  MM/ 

2  4576  MHz 

3  2768  MH: 
5  0688  MH/ 
5  185  MH: 
5  7143  MH/ 
6.5536  MH/ 
-'  31818  MH/ 


53  key  ASCII  keyboari 

Fully  assembled 
Enclosure  Plastic 
Metal  Enclosure 


Green,  Change  Yellow  Jumt-o  .25 
CllpliM  LED  Mounting  Clips  fl/S  1  25 
(specify  red,  amber,  green  yellow,  clear) 

CONTINENTAL  SPECIALTIES  In  stock 
Complete  line  ot  Dread  board  test  erji.no 
MAX  100  8  digit  Frm   Clr.     S1Z6  95 


implete  line  oi  AP  Products  in  slock 

SPECIAL  PRODUCTS 
MM 586 5  Stopwatch  Timer 

with  10  pg  spec  9  00 

PC  boafd  7  50 

Switches  Mom   Pushbutton       27 

3  pas  slide  25 

Encodtt     HD0165-5  6.95 

Pirilranlci  100A  Logii 

AnHyttr 
Model  fO  Trigger 

Expander  Kit 
Model  150  Bus 

Grabber  Kit 
Clock  Cllmdlr  Kit 


I  5  M 


1425.00 
$229  00 
1369.00 
12395 


ir  K.I 


8  432  V 


22  1 


1  MHz 


137  50 

147.75 


6259  14.95 

1802CP  plas  13  95 
!802DPplas  17  95 
1861P  1150 

CDP1802CD  28  95 
CDP1B02D  3500 
CDP1861        15.95 

UART/FIFO 

AY5-10I3        5.50 
AYS- 1014 
3341 

PROM 

1702A 

2513B  upper  0 

2708 

2716T1  I 

2716  Intel       I 

82716  Intel  II 


KEYBOARD  ENCODERS 

AY5-2376  112.50 

AV5  3600  17  95 

AY5-9100  1050 

AY5-9200  16.50 

74C922  5.50 

74C923  5.50 

HD0165-5  6  95 

AY59400  1050 

D  Cofmncton  RS232 

D825P  362 

DB25S  5.20 

Cover  1 .67 

DE9S  1.95 

DA15P  2  10 

DA15S  310 

Complete  Set  9  50 


ik  IH  D. 


tit  Dm 


TRANSFORMERS 

6V  300  ma  3  25 

12  Volt  300  ma  transformer  1.25 

12.6V  CT  600  ma  3  75 

12V  250  ma  will  plug  2  95 

12V  CT  250  ma  wall  plug  3  50 

24V  CT  400  ma  3  95 

10V  1  2  amp  wall  plug  4  85 

12V  6  amp  12  95 

I2V50O  ma  wall  plug  4.75 

12V  1  amp  wait  plug  6.50 
10/15VACa'16VA  wall  plug  9  75 


MAN3  CC 

MAN72  74  CA..CA  j 

DL704  CC  ; 

;[-(;:  DL707R  ca  : 


74.95 

Stopwatch  Kll  28.95 

Auto  Clock  Kit         17.95 

5     Digital  Clock  Kit      14.95 

,     »M»*  Eiram  Kit 

■         Hess  PROMS)    SB9  00 

Malkertoird         139  00 

"       ErUnrJn  Boans      $15  00 

RESISTORS  '■>  wall  5% 
)5         10  par  type    03 
B  75     25  per  type   025 
■5       100  per  lyoe   015 
)r  typa   012 


CC/CA  ! 
CC/CA  I 
CC'CA    I 


350  pi 


8746 


MOSryitM0RYRAffB755A 
2101  I  2  95    N82S23 

NB2S123 
N82S126 
NB2S129 
NB25131 
NB2S136 
N62S137 
DM8577 
8223 


2102AL-4 
21Q2AN-2L 
2104A-4 
2107B-4 


•i  type  6  75 
'■7  wait  5%  per  lype   05 

Telnldco  Ttrmmil 
Model  9'2       $845  DO 
Model  920       1945  00 


B  75    BSR  Controller  139  95 


DL727.728 
DL747.750 
DL750 
FND359 
f.NDiOIMjy.- 
fNDSO  J/510 
FND800/807 
3  digit  Bubble 


DGB  fluorescent 
DG10  Fluorescent 
10  digit  Display 

''■:■';.  ('.■.Hirfi  ijhcsocei'-. 
TIL311  Hex 

MAN3640  CC    3 

MAN4610  CA     4 

MAN4640  CC    4 

MAN4710  CA    t 

MAN4740  CC    4 

MAN6640  CC    5 

MAN6710  CA    6 

MAN6740  CC    6 

MA1002A 

MA1Ui)?t 

MA1012A 

1D2P3  transformer 

MA  ill! /A  Translormer 


PROM  Eraser 

assembled  25  PROM  capacity  $37.50 
(with  timer  $69.50    6  PROM  capacity  OSHA' 
UL  version  $69.50  (with  timer  $94.50) 

Z80  Microcomputer 

16  bit  I/O,  2  MHz  clock,  2K  RAM.  ROM  Bread- 
board space  Excellent  tor  control.  Bare  Board 
$28.50.  Full  Kit  $99.00.  Monitor  $20.00.  Power 
Supply  Kit  $35.00.  Tiny  Basic  $30.00 

S-100  Computer  Boards 

8K  Static  Godbout  Econo  IIA  Kit  145.00 

16K  Static  Godbout  Econo  XIV  Kit  285.00 
24K  Static  Godbout  Econo  VIIA-24  Kit  435.00 

32K  Static  Godbout  Econo  X-32  Kit  575.00 

16K  Dynamic  RAM  Kit  199.00 

32K  Dynamic  RAM  Kit  310.00 

64K  Dynamic  RAM  Kit  470.00 

Video  Interface  Kit  $135.00 

80  IC  Update  Master  Manual  $55.00 

Comp.  IC  data  selector,  2700  pg.  master  reference 
guide.  Over  51 .000  cross  references.  Free  update 
service  through  1980.  Domestic  postage  $3.50. 

Modem  Kit  $60.00 

State  ol  the  art,  orig. ,  answer.  No  tuning  neces- 
sary. 103  compatible  300  baud.  Inexpensive 
acoustic  coupler  plans  included 
LRC  7000  +  Printer  $389.00 
40/20  column  dot  matrix  impact,  std.  paper 
Interface  all  personal  computers. 

64/40/32/20  version  $405.00.  Optional  cables 
available 

LRC  7000  printer  interlace  cable  tor  Super  Elt 
with  software  $26.00 


NiCad  Battery  Fixer/Charger  Kit 

Opens  shorted  cells  that  won  t  hold  a  charge 
and  then  charges  them  up.  all  in  one  kit  w/full 
parts  and  instructions.  $7.25 

Rockwell  AIM  65  Computer 

6502  based  single  board  with  full  ASCII  keyboard 
and  20  column  thermal  printer.  20  char,  alphanu- 
meric display,  ROM  monitor,  fully  expandable. 
$375.00.  4K  version  $450.00.  4K  Assembler 
$85.00.  8K  Basic  Interpreter  $100.00. 

Special  small  power  supply  for  AIM65  assem.  in 
frame  $54.00.  Complete  AIM65  in  thin  briefcase 
with  power  supply  $499.00.  Molded  plastic 
enclosure  to  fit  both  AIM65  and  power  supply 
$47.50.  Special  Package  Price:  4K  AIM.  8K  Basic, 
power  supply,  cabinet  $599.00 

AIM65/KIM/VIM/Super  Elf  44  pin  expansion 
board;  3  female  and  1  male  bus.  Board  plus  3 
connectors  $22.95. 

60  Hz  Crystal  Time  Base  Kit  $4.40 

Converts  digital  clocks  from  AC  line  frequency 
to  crystal  time  base.  Outstanding  accuracy. 

Video  Modulator  Kit  $8.95 

Convert  TV  set  into  a  high  quality  monitor  w/o 
affecting  usage.  Comp.  kit  w/full  instruc. 

Multi-volt  Computer  Power  Supply 

8v  Samp,  »18v  .5  amp,  5v  1.5  amp,  -5v 
.5  amp,  12v  .5  amp.  - 1 2v  option.  ±5v,  ±12v 
are  regulated.  Basic  Kit  $29.95.  Kit  with  chassis 
and  all  hardware  $43.95.  Add  $4.00  shipping.  Kit 
of  hardware  $14.00.  Woodgrain  case  $10.00. 
$1.50  shipping. 


RCA  Cosmac  1802  Super  Elf  Computer  $106.95 


Compare  features  before  you  decide  to  buy  any 
other  computer.  There  is  no  other  computer  on 
the  market  today  that  has  all  the  desirable  bene- 
fits of  the  Super  Elt  for  so  little  money.  The  Super 
Elf  is  a  small  single  board  computer  that  does 
many  big  things.  It  is  an  excellent  computer  for 
training  and  for  learning  programming  with  its 
machine  language  and  yet  it  is  easily  expanded 
with  additional  memory.  Full  Basic.  ASCII 
Keyboards,  video  character  generation,  etc. 
Before  you  buy  another  small  computer,  see  if  it 
includes  the  following  features:  ROM  monitor; 
State  and  Mode  displays;  Single  step;  Optional 
address  displays;  Power  Supply;  Audio  Amplifier 
and  Speaker;  Fully  socketed  for  all  IC's;  Real  cost 
ot  in  warranty  repairs;  Full  documentation. 
The  Super  Elt  includes  a  ROM  monitor  for  pro- 
gram loading,  editing  and  execution  with  SINGLE 
STEP  lor  program  debugging  which  is  not  in- 
cluded in  others  at  the  same  price.  With  SINGLE 
STEP  you  can  see  the  microprocessor  chip  opera- 
ting with  the  unique  Quest  address  and  data  bus 
displays  before,  during  and  after  executing  in- 
structions. Also,  CPU  mode  and  instruction  cycle 
are  decoded  and  displayed  on  8  LED  indicators. 
An  RCA  1861  video  graphics  chip  allows  you  to 
connect  to  your  own  TV  with  an  inexpensive  video 
modulator  to  do  graphics  and  games.  There  is  a 
speaker  system  included  for  writing  your  own 
music  or  using  many  music  programs  already 
written.  The  speaker  amplifier  may  also  be  used 
to  drive  relays  for  control  purposes. 


plus  load,  reset,  run,  wait,  input,  memory  pro- 
tect, monitor  select  and  single  step  Large,  on 
board  displays  provide  output  and  optional  high 
and  low  address.  There  is  a  44  pin  standard 
connector  slot  for  PC  cards  and  a  50  pin  connec- 
tor slot  for  the  Quest  Super  Expansion  Board. 
Power  supply  and  sockets  for  all  IC's  are  in- 
cluded in  the  price  plus  a  detailed  127  pg.  instruc- 
tion manual  which  now  includes  over  40  pgs.  of 
software  info,  including  a  series  of  lessons  to 
help  get  you  started  and  a  music  program  and 
graphics  target  game.  Many  schools  and  univer- 
sities are  using  the  Super  Elf  as  a  course  of  study. 
OEM's  use  it  for  training  and  R&D. 
Remember,  other  computers  only  offer  Super  Eft 
features  at  additional  cost  or  not  at  all.  Compare 
before  you  buy.  Super  Elf  Kit  $106.95,  High 
address  option  $8.95.  Low  address  option 
$9.95.  Custom  Cabinet  with  drilled  and  labelled 
plexiglass  front  panel  $24.95.  All  metal  Expan- 
sion Cabinet,  painted  and  silk  screened,  with 
room  for  5  S-100  boards  and  power  supply 
$57.00.  NiCad  Battery  Memory  Saver  Kit  $6.95. 
All  kits  and  options  also  completely  assembled 
and  tested. 

Questdata.  a  software  publication  for  1802  com- 
puter users  is  available  by  subscription  for 
$12.00  per  12  issues.  Single  issues  $1.50.  Is- 
sues 1-12  bound  $16.50. 
Tiny  Basic  Cassette  $10.00,  on  ROM  $38.00, 
original  Elf  kit  board  $14.95.  1802  software; 
Moews  Video  Graphics  $3.50.  Games  and  Music 
$3.00,  Chip  8  Interpreter  $5.50. 


A  24  key  HEX  keyboard  includes  16  HEX  keys 

Super  Expansion  Board  with  Cassette  Interface  $89.95 


This  is  truly  an  astounding  value!  This  board  has 
been  designed  to  allow  you  to  decide  how  you 
want  it  optioned  The  Super  Expansion  Board 
comes  with  4K  ol  low  power  RAM  fully  address- 
able anywhere  in  64K  with  built-in  memory  pro- 
tect and  a  cassette  interface.  Provisions  have 
been  made  for  all  other  options  on  the  same 
board  and  it  fits  neatly  into  the  hardwood  cabinet 
alongside  the  Super  Elf.  The  board  includes  slots 
for  up  to  6K  of  EPROM  (2708.  2758.  2716  or  Tl 
2716)  and  is  fully  socketed.  EPROM  can  be  used 
for  the  monitor  and  Tiny  Basic  or  other  purposes. 
A  IK  Super  ROM  Monitor  $19.95  is  available  as 
an  on  board  option  in  2708  EPROM  which  has 
been  preprogrammed  with  a  program  loader/ 
editor  and  error  checking  multi  file  cassette 
read/write  software,  (relocatable  cassette  file) 
another  exclusive  from  Quest.  It  includes  register 
save  and  readout,  block  move  capability  and 
video  graphics  driver  with  blinking  cursor.  Break 


points  can  be  used  with  the  register  save  feature 
to  isolate  program  bugs  quickly,  then  follow  with 
single  step.  If  you  have  the  Super  Expansion 
Board  and  Super  Monitor  the  monitor  is  up  and 
running  at  the  push  of  a  button. 
Other  on  board  options  include  Parallel  Input 
and  Output  Ports  with  full  handshake  They 
allow  easy  connection  of  an  ASCII  keyboard  to  the 
input  port  RS  232  and  20  ma  Current  Loop  for 
teletype  or  other  device  are  on  board  and  if  you 
need  more  memory  there  are  two  S-100  slots  for 
static  RAM  or  video  boards.  Also  a  1K  Super 
Monitor  version  2  with  video  driver  for  full  capa- 
bility display  with  Tiny  Basic  and  a  video  interface 
board  Parallel  I/O  Ports  $9.85,  RS  232  $4.50, 
TTY  20  ma  l/F  $1.95.  S-100  $4.50.  A  50  pin 
connector  set  with  ribbon  cable  is  available  at 
$15.25  for  easy  connection  between  the  Super 
Elt  and  the  Super  Expansion  Board. 
Power  Supply  Kit  for  the  complete  system  (see 


Multi-volt  Power  Supply ). 

Announcing  Quest  Super  Basic—  SECOND  GENERATION 

A  new  enhanced  version  of  Super  Basic  now      Enhancements  include  increased  speed,  built- 


available.  Quest  was  the  first  company  worldwide 
to  ship  a  full  size  Basic  for  1802  Systems.  A 
complete  function  Super  Basic  by  Ron  Cenker 
including  floating  point  capability  with  scientific 
notation  (number  range  - .  1 7Ea") .  32  bl t  integer 
±2  billion;  multi  dim  arrays,  string  arrays;  string 
manipulation;  cassette  I/O;  save  and  load,  basic, 
data  and  machine  language  programs;  and  over 
75  statements,  functions  and  operations. 


in  provisions  for  Stringy  Floppy,  Floppy  Disc, 
Printer  Driver,  I/O,  user  definable  command 
library  and  statement  renumbering. 
Easily  adaptable  to  most  1802  systems.  Re- 
quires 16K  RAM  minimum  for  Basic  and  user 
programs.  Source  listing  for  both  Serial  and 
Parallel  I/O  included. 
Super  Basic  on  Cassette  $40.00. 


Gremlin  Color  Video  Kit  $69.95 

32  x  16  alpha/numerics  and  graphics;  up  to  8 
colors  with  6847  chip;  IK  RAM  at  E0O0.  Plugs 
into  Super  Elf  44  pin  bus.  No  high  res.  graphics. 
On  board  RF  Modulator  Kit  $4.95 


1802  16K  Dynamic  RAM  Kit  $149.00 

Expandable  to  32K.  Hidden  refresh  w/clocks  up  to  4 
MHz  w/no  wait  states.  Addl.  16K  RAM  $63.00 
Super  Elf  44  pin  expansion  board;  3  female  and  1 
male  bus.  Board  plus  3  connectors  $22.95 
Tiny  Basic  Extended  on  Cassette  $15.00 
(added  commands  include  Stringy,  Array,  Cas- 
sette I/O  etc.) 

S-100  4-Slot  Expansion  $  9.95 

Super  Monitor  VI. I  Source  Listing         $15.00 


Elf  II  Adapter  Kit  $24.95 

Plugs  into  Elf  II  providing  Super  Elf  44  and  50  pin 
plus  S-100  bus  expansion.  (With  Super  Ex- 
pansion). High  and  low  address  displays,  state 
and  mode  LED's  optional  $18.00. 


Super  Color  S-100  Video  Kit  $129.95 

Expandable  to  256  x  192  high  resolution  color 
graphics.  6847  with  all  display  modes  computer 
controlled.  Memory  mapped.  1K  RAM  expanda- 
ble to  6K.  S-100  bus  1802, 8080, 8085,  Z80  etc. 
Editor  Assembler  $25.00 

(Requires  minimum  ol  4K  for  E  A  plus  user 
source) 

1802  Tiny  Basic  Source  listing  $19.00 

Super  Monitor  V2.0/2.1  Source  Listing  $20.00 


TERMS:    $5.00  min.  order  U.S.  Funds.  Calil  residents  add  6%  tax. 

$10.00 min. order  BankAmericard  and  Master  Charge  andCOD.  $1.00  insurance  optional. 
Shipping  charges  will  be  added  on  charge  cards. 


FREE:  Send  for  your  copy  of  our  NEW  1980 
QUEST  CATALOG.  Include  48c  stamp. 


Circle  371  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980        409 


Get  the  inside 
copy  of  CP/M* 


Just  purchase  a  Jade  Double-D 
or  CCS  double  density  disk 
controller  this  month  and 
CP/M*  2.2  is  yours  for  free. 

S-100  Boards 


DOUBLE-D- Jade 

Double  density  dish  controller  wit h  the  inside  truck 

1OD-1300K  Kit  &  CP  M  2.2    $395.00 

IOD-1 300A  H"  A  &  t  &  CP/M  2.2  . .    $489.00 

IOD-130SA  .*>'<"  A  &  T  &  CP  M  2.2     $489.00 

IOD-I200U  Hare  hoard   $55.00 

DOUBLK  DENSITY  -  Cal  Cotnp  Sys 

.V  "  i.r  K"  dish  luiilmllrr  with  free  CP  M  2.2 
IOD-1  I00A    A  &  T  $374.95 

THE  BIG  Z*  -  Jade 

2  or  4  MHz  swilchabte  Z-HO'  CPU  with  serial  I/O 

CPU-30201K    Kit  $145.00 

CPU-30201A   A  &  T  $199.00 

CPU-30800B   Bare  hoard    $35.00 

SBC- 100  -  SD  Systems 

2.5  MHz  Z-80'  CPU  with  serial  &  parallel  I  O  pnrts 

CPC-301Q0K   Kit   $269.95 

CPC-30100A   Jade  A&T  $339.95 

SBC-200  -  SD  Systems 

I  MHz  Z  HO'  CPU  with  serial  &  parallel  It)  ports 

CPC-30200K    Kit    $299.95 

CPC-3020OA    Jade  A&T $375.00 

CB2  -  S.S.M. 

2  nr  ■/  MHz  •'Will  liable  Z-HO'  CPU  with  RAM.  ROM.  &  I  O 

CPU-30300K   Kit  $239.95 

CPC-30300A    A&T   $299.95 

2810  Z-HO*  CPU  -  Cal  Comp  Sys 

2  -I  MHz  Z-HO  A*  CPU  w 'serial  CO  port 
CPU-3OI00A    A&T  $275.00 

KxpandoKAM  I  -  SO  Systems 

2.5  .)///.-  RAM  h,mr,l  expandable  from  ItiK  tn  l!4K 

MKM-18130K  ItiK  kit    $245.00 

M  EM  -  1 6 1 30A  /  HK  Jade  A&T $295.00 

M  EM-32 1 3 1 K  I12K  bit    $275.00 

M  EM-32 1 3 1  A  :12K  Jade  A&T $325.00 

MKM-48132K  IKK  hit    $305.00 

MEM-4H132A  /,S'A'  Jade  A&T $355.00 

MEM-64133K  INK  kit    $335.00 

MEM-64133A  64K  Jade  A&T $385.00 

64K  RAM  BOARD  $359.95 
ExpandoRAM  II  -  SD  Systems 

4  MHz  RAM  board  expandable  from  ItiK  to  256K 

MEM-16630A    I6K  kit    $249.95 

MEM-16630A    16K  Jade  A&T $299.95 

MEM-32631K   32 K  kit    $289.95 

MEM-32631A    32K  Jade  A  &  T $339.95 

MEM-48632K   48K  kit    $324.95 

MEM-48631A   48K  Jade  A&T $374.95 

MEM-64633K   64 K  kit    $359.95 

MEM-64633A    64K  Jade  A&T $409.95 

32K  STA  TIC  RAM  BOARD  $299. 95 
16K  STATIC  RAM  BOARD  $169.95 

32K  STATIC  RAM  -  Jade 

2  or  4  MHz  expandable  static  RAM  board  uses  2II4L's 

MEM-16151K   16K4MHzkit   $169.95 

MEM-16151A   16K  4  MHz  A&T  ...    $224.95 

MEM-32151K  32K  4  MHz  kit   $299.95 

MEM-32151A  32K  4  MHz  A&T  ...    $349.95 


S.P.I.C.  -  Jade 

Our  new  I/O  card  with  2  SIO's.  4  CTC's.  and  1  PIO 
IOI-1045K  2  CTC's,  1  SIO,  1  PIO  . .    $199.00 

IOI-1045A   A&T $259.00 

IOI-1046K   4  CTC's,  2  SIO's,  I  PIO      $259.00 

IOI-1046A   A&T $319.00 

IOI-1045B   Bare  hoard  w/  manual    ...$59.95 
IOI-1045D   Manual  only    $20.00 

16K  STATIC  RAM  -  Cal  Comp  Sys 

2  or  4  MHz  ItiK  static  RAM  -  a  real  memory  bargain 

MEM-16160K    16K  2  MHz  kit    $249.95 

MEM-16160A    1GK  2  MHz  A&T...    $279.00 

MEM-16162K    16K  4  MHz  kit    $279.95 

MEM-16162A    If>K  4  MHz  A  &  T  . . .    $309.00 
MKM-16160B    Bare  hoard  $29.95 

PB-1  -  S.S.M. 

270H.  2716  F.PROM  board  with  built-in  programmer 

MEM-99510K   Kit    $159.95 

MEM-99510A   A&T $239.95 

PROM-100  -  SD  Systems 

270H.  27 IK.  27H2.  2758.  &  2516  EPROM  programmer 

MEM-99520K    Kit    $175.00 

MEM-99520A   Jade  A  &  T   $225.00 

1/0-4  -  S.S.M. 

2  serial  I  O  ports  plus  2  parallel  I/O  ports 

IOI-I010K    Kit $179.95 

IOI-1010A    A&T $259.95 

IOI-1010B    Bare  hoard   $35.00 

BIT  STREAMER  II  -  Vector  Graphic 

ii  serial  I  t)  ports  plus  2  parallel  10  ports 
IOI-1025A   A&T $259.00 

100K  DAY  CLOCK  -  Mtn  Hardware 

Crystal  controlled  S-100  clock  with  NiCad  backup 
IOK-1400A   A&T  $329.95 

SB1  -S.S.M. 

15  //.-  (ii  25K  II;  music  synthesizer  for  S-100 

IOS-1005K    Kit    $239.95 

[OS-  1005A   A&T   $299.95 

TB-4  -  Mullen 

Kxtremeiy  rcrsalile  extender  board  with  logic  probe 

TSX- 1 80 K    Kil    $55.00 

TSX- 180  A   A&T  $75.00 

TERMINATOR  &  EXTENDER  -  CCS. 

Can  he  used  as  both  an  S-100  extender  and  terminator 
TSX-150K    Kit   $39.95 

S-100  EXTENDER  -  Cal  Comp  Sys 

Pals  problem  boards  within  easy  reach 
TSX-160A    A&T   $24.95 

VERSAFLOPPY  I  -  SD  Systems 

X'ersiitile  floppy  disk  controller  for  H"  or  5'  i" 

IOD-1 150K    Kit  $219.95 

IOD-1 150A   Jade  A  &  T    $269.95 

VERSAFLOPPY  II  -  SD  Systems 

\eie  double  density  controller  for  both  H"  &  5'  r" 

IOD-1 160K   Kit  $309.95 

IOD-1 160A   Jade  A  &  T    $369.95 

S-100  PROTO  BOARD  -  Jade 

( 'nirersal  design,  plated  thru  holes,  gold  fingers 
TSX-140B  Bare  hoard   $24.95 

2708/2716  EPROM  BOARD  -  Jade 

Holds  up  to  16  KPROMs.  addressable  on  IK  banks 

MKM-16230K    Kit    $69.95 

MEM-16230A   A  &  T  no  PROMs $99.95 

MEM-16230B    Bare  hoard  $30.00 

*  Z-80.  Z-80A,  and  the  letter  Z  are  recognized  trademarks 
of  Zilog,  Inc. 


VDB-8024  -  SD  Systems 

HO  x  24  I/O  mapped  video  board  with  keyboard  I/O 

IOV-1020K   Kit  $339.95 

IOV-1020A  Jade  A&T $399.95 

VB3  -  S.S.M. 

80  x  24  or  80  x  4H  memory  mapped  with  graphics 

IOV-1095K   Kit,  4  MHz   $399.95 

IOV-1095A   A&T,  4  MHz    $464.95 

IOV-1096K   80  x  48  upgrade,  4  MHz    .  $89.00 

VIDEO  BOARD  -  Jade 

64  x  16  assembled  &  tested  S-100  video  board 

IOV-1050B   Bare  board    $29.95 

IOV-1050A   A&T  sale  price  $99.95 


Single  Board  Computers 

AIM-65  -  Rockwell 

6502  computer  with  printer,  display,  &  keyboard 

CPK-50165   IK  AIM  $374.95 

CPK-50465   4K  AIM  $449.95 

SFK-74600008E   8K  BASIC  ROM   . . .  $99.95 
SFK-64600004E   4 K  assembler  ROM    $84.95 

PSX-030A   Power  supply  $59.95 

ENX-000002   Enclosure $49.95 

4K  AIM,  HK  BASIC,  power  supply,  &  enclosure 
Special  package  price   $599.00 

Z-80*  STARTER  KIT  -  SD  Systems 

Z-HO'  computer  with  RAM,  ROM,  I/O,  &  keyboard 

CPS-30010K  Kit    $319.95 

CPS-30010A  Jade  A&T  $399.95 


Video  Monitors 

VIDEO  100  -  Leedex 

12"  B  &  W  video  monitor  with  12  MHz  bandwidth 
VDM-801210    $139.95 

VIDEO  100-80  -  Leedex 

HI  X  24'version  of  Video  100  with  metal  cabinet 
VDM-801230    $179.95 

9"  B  &  W  MONITOR  -  A.P.F. 

High  quality,  high  resolution  video  monitor 
VDM-750900   9"  monitor $149.95 

13"  COLOR  MONITOR  -  Zenith 

The  hi  res  color  you've  been  promising  yourself 
VDC-201301   $449.00 

12"  GREEN  SCREEN  -  NEC 

20  MHz.  Pill  phosphor  video  monitor  with  audio 
VDM-651200    12"  monitor    $249.95 

Software 

SDOS  -  SD  Systems 

DOS,  CBASIC-2,  Z-80'  assembler/editor/linker 

SFX-55001000D  Manual  set    $24.95 

SFX-55001002M   5'A"  disks  &  man     $199.95 
SFX-55001006F  8"  disk  &  manual     $199.95 

CP/M  2.2  -  Digital  Research 

Latest  &  most  powerful  release  of  CP/M 

SFC-52506000D   Manual  set    $24.95 

SFC-52506000M   5  V  disk  &  manual  $149.95 
SFC-52506000F  8"  disk  &  manual      $149.95 


*CP/M  is  a  registered  trademark  of  Digital 
Research  Corp. 

All    royalties    paid    by    Jade    Computer    Products    and 
California  Computer  Systems. 


track  and  a  free 
2.2  to  boo*  m 


Accessories  for  Apple 

16K  MEMORY  UPGRADE 

Add  16K  of  RAM  to  your  TRS-80.  Apple,  or  Exidy 

MEX-16100K    TRS-80  kit    $39.95 

MEX-16101K   Apple  kit $39.95 

MEX-16102K   Exidy  kit    $39.95 

PRINTER  INTERFACE  -  Cal  Comp 

Centronics  type  I/O  card  w/  firmware 
IOI-2041A  A&T $99.95 

8"  DRIVES  for  APPLE 

Controller,  DOS,  two  8"  drives,  cabinet,  &  cable 
Special  package  price   $1475.00 

AIO  -  S.S.M. 

Parallel  &  serial  interface  for  your  Apple 

IOI-2050K   Kit $159.00 

IOI-2050A   A&T $199.00 

APPLE  CLOCK  -  Cal  Comp  Sys 

Real  time  clock  w/battery  back-up 
IOK-2100A   A&T  $125.00 

SUPERTALKER  -  Mtn  Hardware 

Speech  recognition/synthesizer  w/speaker  &  mike 
IOS-2015A   A&T   $275.00 

Z-80*  CARD  for  APPLE 

Z-80*  CPU  card  with  CP/M  for  your  Apple 
CPX-30800A  A&T  $298.00 

MICROMODEM  -  D.C.  Hayes 

Auto  answer/dial  modem  card  for  Apple  or  S-100 

IOM-2010A   Apple  modem    $349.95 

IOM-1 100A   S-100  modem   $375.00 

Printers 

BASE  2  -  Impact  Printer 

132  cps,  bi-directional,  tractor  feed,  &  graphics 
PRM-13100   $675.00 

DP-9501  -  Anadex 

9x11  dot  matrix,  220  column,  200  cps,  &  graphics 
PRM-10501    Standard  DP-9501  ....   $1495.00 
PRM-10511    with  graphics  &  2K    ..   $1595.00 

ANACOM  150  -  Special 

150  cps,  9x9  matrix,  tractor  feed 

PRM-1 1 150   Parallel  interface $895.00 

PRM-11151    Serial  interface    $895.00 

SPINWRITER  -  NEC 

65  cps.  bi-directional,  letter  quality  with  tractor 
PRD-55510   with  2K  buffer    $2695.00 

NOVATION  CAT 

300  baud,  auto  answer /originate  acoustic  modem 
IOM-5200A   Special  sale  price $139.00 

D-CAT  300  baud,  direct  connect  modem 
IOM-5201A   Special  sale  price $189.00 

EPROM  ERASERS 

L.S.  Engineering  UV  eraser  for  up  to  48  EPROMs 
XME-3200   A&T $39.95 

Spectronics  hi  intensity  industrial  eraser 

XME-3100    Without  timer   $69.95 

XME-3101    With  timer    $94.50 

TV-1  -  Best  Buy 

The  inexpensive  alternative  to  video  monitors 
IOR-5040K   Kit  $8.95 

Call  for  your  free  1 980  catalog 

Circle  372  on  inquiry  card. 


Disk  Drives 

JADE  DISK  PACKAGE 

Double-D  controller  kit,  two  8"  double  density  drives 

CP/M  2.2,  cabinet,  power  supply.  &  cables 

Special  package  price   $1395.00 

DUAL  8"  DRIVES  -  Jade 

A  pair  of  double  density  Shugarts  in  a  cabinet 

MSF-12800R  2  single  sided $995.00 

MSF-125202   2  double  sided $1425.00 

8"  DISK  DRIVES 

Highly  reliable  double  density  floppy  disk  drives 
Shugart  801R  single  sided,  double  density 

MSF-10801R   SA-801R  $425.00 

Special  Sale  Price  2  for  $800.00 

Qume  Datatrak  8  double  sided,  double  density 
MSF- 750080   851R  compatible    $625.00 

DISKETTES  -  Jade 

Bargain  prices  on  magnificent  magnetic  media 
5'/i"  single  sided,  single  density,  box  of  10 

MMD-5110103    Soft  sector   $27.95 

MMD-5111003    10  sector  $27.95 

MMD-5111603    16  sector  $27.95 

5'/i"  double  sided,  double  density,  box  of  10 

MMD-5220103   Soft  sector   $39.95 

8"  single  sided,  single  density,  box  of  10 

MMD-81 10103   Soft  sector   $33.95 

8"  single  sided,  double  density,  box  of  10 

MMD-8120103   Soft  sector   $55.95 

8"  double  sided,  double  density,  box  of  10 
MMD-8220103   Soft  sector   $57.95 


DUAL  DISK  CABINET  Jade 

Metal  enclosure  for  2  801R's,  power  supply  &  fan 
END-000021    Bare  cabinet  $99.00 


Motherboards 


ISO-BUS  -  Jade 

Silent,  simple,  and  on  sale  -  a  better  motherboard 
6  Slot  (5'4"  x  8%") 

Bare  board   $19.95 

Kit $39.95 

A&T $49.95 

12  Slot  (9;'/i"  x8%") 

Bare  board   $29.95 

Kit $69.95 

A&T $89.95 

18  Slot  (UW  x  8V»") 

Bare  board   $49.95 

Kit $99.95 

A&T $139.95 


MBS-061B 
MBS-061K 
MBS-061A 

MBS-121B 
MBS-121K 
MBS-121A 


MBS-181B 
MBS-181K 
MBS-181A 


Mainframes 


MAINFRAME  -  Cal  Comp  Sys 

12  slot  S-100  mainframe  with  20  amp  power  supply 

ENC-112105   Kit    $309.95 

ENC-112106  A&T    $349.95 

DISK  MAINFRAME  -  NNC 

Dual  8"  drive  cutouts  with  8  slot  motherboard 
ENS-112320    with  30  amp  p.s $699.95 


TRS-80  APPLE 

16K  MEMORY  UPGRADE  KIT 

$39.95 


i              MICROPROCESSORS 

1            Z-80 

10.95 

1             Z-80A     . 

12.96 

1            6502    

11.50 

f            6800    

11.95 

1735 

39.95 

\            8035    

24.00 

^        8035-8    .... 

24.00 

^t       anani 

6.59 

B^  8085    

15.95 

8212  .  4.95 
8214  .  4.65 
8216  . .  2.95 
8224  . .  3.25 
8224-4  10.95 
8226  3.85 
8228  .  4.95 
8238  4.95 
8243  . .  8.00 

8250  14.95 

8251  .  6.50 
8253  . .  13.95 
8255  . .  6.50 
8257  . .  19.95 
8259  17.95 
8275  . .  49.95 
8279    . .  15.96 

Z-80  SUPPORT 

3881  PIO   9.50 

3881-4  PIO-4MHZ   14.50 

3882  CTC 9.50 

3882^  CTC-4MHz  14.95 

3883  SIO    29.50 

3884  SIO   49.50 

BAUD  RATE 

GENERATORS 
MC14411    ...  10.00 
1.843  MHz  xtal    4.95 
6800 

SUPPORT 
6821P  5.95 
6828P  .  11.95 
6834P  12.95 
6840P  .  18.75 
6850P  4.80 
6852P  .  5.79 
6875L  .  7.40 
68488P    25.00 

PROMS 
2708  450ns  8.95 
2716  I2,5v  14.95 
2716  5v  . .  14.95 
2732  5v  .  59.95 
2758  Bv     .  19.95 


^ 


fc\«fr 


UARTS 
AY5-1013A    5.25 
AY3-1014A    825 
TR1602B    .    525 
IM6402    ....  9.00 

RAMS 
21L02  2  MHz     1251 
21L02A  4  MHz  1.501 
2114L  2  MHz     3.75 
2114LA  4  MHz  3.95 
2147   70ns         39.95 

4116    4.95 

4164  64Kxl  175.00 
6257  2  MHz  6.75 
5257A  4  MHz  725 
MK4118  18.95 


PLACE  ORDERS 
TOLL  FREE 


Inside  California 
800-262-1710 


Continental  U.S. 
800-421-5500 


For  customer  service 
or  technical  inquiries  call   213-973-7707 

Write  for  our  FREE  1980  catalog 


* 


COMPUTER  PRODUCTS 

4901  W.Rosecrans,  Hawthorne.  CA  90250 

TERMS  OF  SALE:  Cash,  checks,  credit  cards 
money  orders  or  from  recognized  institutions 
Purchase  orders  accepted.  Minimum  order  $1000^*-? 
California  residents  add  6%  sales  tax.    Minim -Hir 
shipping  and  handling  charge  S2.50.  Prices  ac  for 
U.S.  and  Canadian  delivery  only  and  are  subjct 
to  change  without  notice.   For  export  prices  jnd 
information  send  for  a  JADE  INTERNATIONAL 
CATALOG.         _ 


VISA 


SN7400N 
SN7401IM 
SN7402N 
SN7403N 
5N7404N 
SN7405N 
SN7406N 
SN7407N 
SN740BN 
SN7409N 
SN7410N 
SN7411N 
SN7412N 
SN7413N 
SN74I4N 
SN7416N 
SN7417N 
SN7420N 
5N7421N 
SN7422N 
SN7423N 
SN7425N 
SN7426N 
SN7427N 
5N7429N 
SN7430N 
SN7432N 
SN7437N 
SN7438N 
SN7439N 
SN7440N 
SN7441N 
SN7442N 
SN7443N 
SN7444N 
SN7445N 
SN7446N 
5N7447N 
SN7448N 
SN7450N 
SN7451N 
SN7453N 
SN7454N 
SN7459A 
SN7460N 
SN7470N 


74LS00 
74LS01 
74LS02 
74LSQ3 
74LS04 
74LS06 
74LS08 
74LS09 
74LS10 
74LS11 
74LS12 
74LS13 
74LS14 
74LS15 
74LS20 
74LS21 
74LS22 
74LS26 
74LS27 
74LS2S 
74LS30 
74LS32 
74LS33 
74LS37 
74LS38 
74LS40 
74LS42 
74LS47 
74LS48 
74LS49 
74LS51 
74LS54 
74LS55 
74L573 
74LS74 
74LS75 
74LS76 
74LS78 
74LS83 
74LS85 
74LS86 
74LS90 


74S00 
74502 
74S03 
74S04 
74S05 
74  SOB 
74  SIM 
74510 
74S11 
74S15 
74S20 
74S22 
74S30 
74S32 
74S40 
74S51 
74S64 
74S65 
74S74 
74S86 
745112 
74  SI  13 
745114 


7400 


SN7472N 
SN7473N 
SN7474N 
SN7475N 
SN7476N 
SN7480N 
5N7482N 
SN7483N 
SN748SN 
SN7486N 
SN7489N 
SN7490N 
SN7491N 
SN7492N 
SN7493N 
SN7494N 
SN7495N 
SN7496N 
SN7497N 
SN74100N 
SN74107N 
5N74I09N 
SN74U6N 
SN74121N 
5N74122N 
SN74123N 
SN74125N 
SN74126N 
SN74132N 
SN74136N 
SN74141N 
SN74142N 
SN  74143  N 
SN74144N 
SN  74145  N 
SN74147N 
SN74148N 
SN74150N 
SN74151N 
SN74152N 
SN74153N 
SN74154N 
SN74155N 


w$ 


SN74156N 
SN74157N 
SN74160N 
SN74161N 
SN74162N 
SN  74163  N 
SN  74164  N 
SN  74165  N 
SN  74166  N 
SN74167N 
SN74170N 
SN74172N 
SN74173N 
SN74174N 
SN74175N 
SN74176N 
SN74177N 
SN74179N 
SN74180N 
SN74181N 
SN74182N 
SN74184N 
SN74185N 
SN74190N 
SN74191N 
SN74192N 
SN74193N 
SN74194N 
SN74195N 
SN74196N 
SN74197N 
SN74198N 
SN74199N 
SN74221N 
SN74251N 
SN  74276  N 
SN  74279  N 
SN74283N 
SN74284N 
SN74285N 
SN74365N 
SN74366N 
SN74367N 
SN74368N 
SN74390N 
SN74393N 


1.25 
2.79 
1.95 

4.95 


74LS 


74LS92 
74LS93 
74LS95 
74LS96 
74LS107 
74LSI09 
74  LSI  12 
74LS113 
74LSI14 
74LS122 
74LS123 
74LS125 
74LS126 
74LS132 
74LS133 
74LS136 
74LS138 
74LS139 
74LS1S1 
74LS153 
74LS154 
74LS155 
74LS156 
74LS157 
74LS158 
74LS160 
74LS161 
74LS162 
74LS163 
74LS164 
74LS165 
74US168 
74LS169 
74  LSI  70 
74LS173 
74LS174 
74LS175 
74LS181 
74L5190 
74LS191 


1.75 
1.19 
1.19 


74LS192 

74LS193 

74LS194 

74LS195 

74LS197 

74LS221 

74LS240 

74LS241 

74LS242 

74LS243 

74LS244 

74LS245 

74LS247 

74LS248 

74LS249 

74LS251 

74LS253 

74LS257 

74LS258 

74LS260 

74LS266 

74LS273 

74LS279 

74LS2S3 

74LS290 

74LS293 

74LS298 

74LS352 

74LS353 

74LS365 

74LS366 

74LS367 

74LS368 

74LS373 

74LS374 

74LS375 

74LS3B6 

74LS393 

74LS399 

74LS670 

81LS95 

81LS97 


2.95 
1.19 
1.19 
1.19 


2.49 
2.49 
2.49 
1.95 
1.95 


74S 


74S133 
74S134 
74S135 
74S136 
745138 
745139 
74  S 140 
74S151 
74S153 
74  S 157 
74S158 
74S174 
74S175 
745188 
745194 
745195 
745196 
74S240 
74S241 
74S242 
745243 
(TED    AVAILABILITY    ON 


3.95 


2.95 


745244 
74S251 
74S253 
74S257 
74S258 
74S260 
745280 
74S287 
74S288 
745373 
745374 
745387 
745472 
745473 
74S474 
745475 
745570 
74S571 
745572 
74S573' 
74S574 
74S940 
74S941 
THESE    P: 


3.25 
1.45 
1.45 


2.95 
4.95 
4.95 
3.49 
3.49 
5.95 
19.95 
19.95 
21.95 
21.95 
7.95 
7.95 
19.95 
19.95 
14.95 
3.15 
3.15 
ROMS 


CA3013H 

2.15 

CA3023H 

3.25 

CA3039H 

1.35 

CA3046N 

1.30 

CA3059N 

3.25 

CA3060N 

3.25 

CA3080H 

1.25 

CA-LINEAR 


CA3081N 
CA3082N 
CA3083N 
CA3086N 


2.00 
2.00 
1.60 


CA3089N 
CA3096N 
CA3130H 
CA3140H 
CA3160H 
CA3401N 
CA3600N 


3.75 
3.95 
1.39 


CD4000 
CO4001 
CD4O02 
CO4006 
CO4007 
CD4009 
CD4010 
CD40U 
CD4012 
CD4013 
CO4014 
CD4015 
CD4016 
CD4017 
C  D4018 
CD4019 
CD4020 
CD4021 
CO4022 
CO4023 
CD4024 
CD4025 
CD4026 
CO4027 
CD4028 
CD4029 
CO4030 
CD4035 
CD4O40 


1.19 
1.39 
1.19 


CD-CMOS 


CD4041 
CD4042 
CD4043 
CD4044 
CO4046 
CD4047 
CD4048 
CD4049 
CD405O 
CD4051 
CD4052 
CD4053 
CD4056 
CD4059 
CD4060 
CD4066 
CD4068 
CD4069 
CD4070 
CD4071 
CD4072 
CD4073 
CD407S 
CD4076 
CD4081 


1.79 
2.50 

1.35 


1.19 
1.19 
1.19 

2.95 
9.95 
1.49 


CD4082 
CD4093 
CD4098 
CD4506 
CD4507 
CD450S 
CD4510 
CD4511 
CD4514 
CD451S 
CD4516 
CD4518 
CD4519 
CD4520 
CD4526 
CD4528 
CD4529 
CD4543 
CD4562 
CD4566 
CD4583 
CD4723 
CD4724 
MC14409 
MC14410 
MC14411 
MC 14412 
MC 14419 
MC  14433 


2.79 
11.95 
2.79 
2.49 


14.95 
14.95 
14.95 
11.95 
4.95 
13.95 


JE6Q8  PROGRAMMER 

2708  EPROM  PROGRAMMER 


Rtgimn:  8  LED'ifo.  H««  K.y  imtries.  10  LE0'i)2° T 
■Ml  8  LED'ilo,  Dm  Mmid-v  Rijiitir.  Th.  Dm  Mimar 

tomt/rtt  of  Iht  RAMi  trorti  This  EPROM  Chip. 
<cc oo'omiiif  wtlermbv  rutins  ol  i  ntibon  able  trom  tti 
Bit  sockn  to  the  EPROM  locket  on  the  miciop<o»t«i 


JE608K   KIT $399.95 

JE608A  Assembled  and  tested $499.95 


DISCRETE  LEDS 


XC556R  .200"  red 

XC556G  .200"  green 

XC556Y  .200"  yellov 

XC556C  .200"  clear 

XC22R  .200"  red 

XC22G  .200"  green 

XC22Y  .200"  yello\ 

MV10B  .170"  red 


5/11 
4/J1 
4/$l 
4/$l 
5/$l 
4/$l 
4/$l 
4/$l 


MV50  .085"  red 

XC209R  .125"  red 

XC209G  .125"  green 

XC209Y  .125"  yellow 

XC526R  .185"  red 

XCS26G  .185"  green 

XC526Y  .185"  yellow 

XC526C  .185"  clear 


6/$l 
5/$l 
4/J1 

4/51 
5/$l 

4/S1 
4/S1 
4/$l 


XC111R   .190"  red  5/$l 

XC111G   .190"  green  4/$l 

XC111Y  :190"  yellow  4/$l 

XC111C   .190"  clear  4/JI 

INFRA-RED  LED 

i/4"xV4"xl/16"  flat 

IRL— 5/$l 


C.A.  —  Common  Anode 


Type 

MAN  1 
MAN  2 
MAN  3 
MAN  52 
MAN  54 
MAN  71 
MAN  72 
MAN  74 
MAN  82 
MAN  84 
MAN  3620 
MAN  3630 
MAN  3640 
MAN  4610 
MAN  6610 
MAN  6630 
MAN  6640 
MAN  6650 
MAN  6660 
MAN  6710 
MAN  6750 
MAN  6780 
OL704 
DL707 
OL728 


Polarity 
C.A.— red 
5x7  D.M.— red 
C.C.— red 
C. A.— green 
C.C. — green 
C.A.— red 
C.A.— red 
C.C— red 
C. A.— yellow 
C.C— yellow 
C.A. —orange 
C.A. —orange  ±  1 
C.C— orange 
C.  A.— orange 
C.A.— orange— DD 
C.A. —orange  ±  1 
C.C— orange— DD 
C.C— orange  ±  1 
C.A. —orange 
C.A.— red— DD 
C.C— red  ±  1 
C.C— red 
C.C— red 
C.A.— red 
C.C— red 


DISPLAY  LEDS 


C.C.  —  Con 


l  Cathode 


Price 
2.95 

4.95 


500 


1.49 


Type 

DL741 

DL746 

DL747 

DL750 

DL33B 

FND70 

FND358 

FND359 

FNO503 

FND507 

HDSP-3401 

HDSP-3403 

5082-7613 

5082-7620 

5082-7623 

5082-7730 

5082-7731 

5082-7750 

5082-7751 

5082-7760 

5082-7300 

5082-7302 

5082-7304 

LIT-1 

MOC3010 


Polarity 
C.A.— red 

C.A.— red  t  l 

C.A.— red 

C.C— red 

C.C— red 

C.C. 

C.C.  ±  1 

C.C. 

C.C.  (FND500) 

C.A.  (FNDS10) 

C.A. —red 

C.C— red 

CCR.H.D—  red 

C.A.,L.H.D.— yel. 

C.C.R.H.D.— yel. 

CA..L.H.D.— red 

C.A..R.H.D.— red 

CA..L.H.D.— red 

C.A..R.H.D.— red 

C.C.R.H.D.— red 

4x7sgi.dlg.  RHD 

4x7sgl.dlg.  LHD 

Ovemge.char.  (±1)  .600 

Photo  Xslstor  Opto-lsol. 

Optically  Isol.Triac  Driver  1.25 


.600 


.110 


.357 


.300 


.600 


1.25 


1.25 
1.75 

1.2S 
1.75 

22.00 
22.00 
19.95 


RADIO  CONTROL  CIRCUITS 

Ideal  for  remote  control  systems  which  use  pulse  amplitude  modu- 
lation (toy  cars,  boats,  tanks,  etc.)  Features:  five  function  control, 
adjustable  steering  angle,  suitable  for  27  and  47MHz  bands  and  low 
power  consumption. 

KB-4428  TRANSMITTER $4.25 

Abs.  max.  rating  (TA@25°  C J.  Supply  volt.:  Vccl  12VDC 
Power  Disslp.:  PD:  300mW;  Temp,  range:  Oper.  0-+50°C  — 
Storage  -30—  +125°  C.  Rec.  oper.  volt.:  7-11V.  Crystal  or 
CR  Oscillation  circuits  acceptable. 

KB-4429  RECEIVER $5.95 

Abs.  max.  rating  (TA@25°C).  Supply  volt.:  Vccl:  11V.  Vcc2: 
7.5V.  Power  Dlssip.:  60Qmw.  Temp,  range:  Oper.  0  ±  50°C. 
Rec.  oper.  volt.:  VOP1  7-llv  —  VOP2  3-6V. 


LOW  PROFILE 
(TIN)  SOCKETS 

1-24  25-49 50-100 


3  pin  LP 
14  pin  LP 
16  pin  LP 
18  pin  LP 
20  Pin  LP 
22  pin  LP 
24  pin  LP 
28  pin  LP 
36  pin  LP 
40  pin  LP 


SOLDERTAIL  (GOLD) 
STANDARD 


8  pin  SG 
14  pin  SG 
16  pin  SG 
18  pin  SG 
24  pin  SG 
28  pin  SG 
36  pin  5G 
40  pin  SG 


SOLDERTAIL 
STANDARD  (TIN) 


14  pin  ST 
16  pin  ST 
18  pin  ST 
24  pin  ST 
28  pin  ST 
36  pin  ST 
40  pin  ST 


WIRE  WRAP  SOCKETS 
(GOLD) LEVEL  #3 


1/4  WATT  RESISTOR  ASSORTMENTS  -5% 


ASST 

1 

5ea. 

10  Ohn 
27  Ohrr 

12  Ohrr 
33  Ohrr 

15  Ohn 
39  Ohn 

18  Ohn 
47  Ohn 

22  Ohm 
56  Ohm 

50  pes. 

$1.95 

ASST 

2 

5ea. 

68  Ohm   82  Ohrr 
180  Ohm  220  Ohn- 

100  Ohn 
270  Ohn 

120  Ohn 
330  Ohn 

150  Ohm 
390  Ohm 

50  pes. 

$1.95 

ASST 

3 

5ea. 

470  Ohrr 
1.2K 

560  Ohrr 
1.5K 

680  Ohn 
1.8K 

820  Ohn 
2.2K 

IK 
2.7K 

50pcs. 

$1.95 

ASST 

4 

5ea. 

3.3K 

8.2K 

3.9  K 

10K 

4.7K 
12K 

5.6  K 
15K 

6.8K 
18K 

50  pes. 

$1.95 

ASST 

5 

5ea. 

22K 
56K 

27K 
68K 

33K 

82  K 

39K 
100  K 

47K 
120K 

50  pes. 

$1.95 

ASST 

6 

5ea. 

150K 
390K 

180  K 
470K 

220K 
550  K 

270K 
680  K 

330K 
820  K 

50  pes. 

$1.95 

ASST 

7 

Sea. 

1M 
2.7M 

1.2M 

3.3M 

1.5M 
3.9M 

1.8M 
4.7M 

2.2M 
5.6M 

50  pes. 

$1.95 

ASST.  8R 


Includes  Resistor  Assts.  1-7  (350  pes.) 


$10.95  ea. 


$10.00  Min.  Order  —  U.S.  Funds  Only  Spec  Sheets  -  254 

Calif.  Residents  Add  6%  Sales  Tax  1981  Catalog  Available -Send  41^ stamp 

Postage-  Add  5%  plus $1  Insurance  (if  desired) 


1981,,: 


Jameoo 


PHONE 

ORDERS 

WELCOME 

(415)592-8097 


MAIL  ORDER  ELECTRONICS  -  WORLDWIDE 

1355SHOREWAY  ROAD,  BELMONT,  CA  94002 

PRICES  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE 


Part  No,  Function 

7045IPI  CMOS  Precision  Timer 
7Q45EV/Kit*  Stopwatch  Chip,  XTL 
7106CPL  3V2  Digit  A/D  (LCD  Drive) 
7106EV/KU*  !C,  Circuit  Board,  Display 
7107CPL  3V;  Digit  A/D  (LED  Drive) 
7107EV/Kit*  IC,  Circuit  Board,  Display 
7116CPL  3>/2  Digit  A/D  LCD  Dis.  HLD. 
7117CPL  3Vz  Digit  A/D  LED  Dis.  HLD. 
7201IDR  Low  Battery  Volt  Indicator 
720SIPG  CMOS  LED  Stopwatch/Timer 
7205EV/Kit*  Stopwatch  Chip,  XTL 
7206CJPE  Tone  Generator 
72Q6CEV/KU*  Tone  Generator  Chip,  XTL 
7207AIPD  Oscillator  Controller 
7207AEV/KK*  Freq.  Counter  Chip,  XTL 
7208IPI  Seven  Decade  Counter 
7209IPA  Clock  Generator 
7215IPG  4  Func.  CMOS  Stopwatch  CKT 
7215EV/Klt*  4  Func.  Stopwatch  Chip,  XTL 
7216AIJI  8-Diglt  Univ.  Counter  C.A. 
7216CIJI  B-Dlglt  Freq.  Counter  C.A. 
7216DIPI  8-Digit  Freq.  Counter  C.C. 
7217IJI  4-Dlgit  LED  Up/Down  Counter 
7218CIJI  8-Digit  Univ.  LED  Drive 
7224IPL  LCD  4V8  Digit  Up  Counter  DRI 
7226AIJL  8-Digit  Univ.  Counter 
7226AEV/Kit*  5  Function  Counter  Chip,  XTL 
7240IJE  CMOS  Bin  Prog.  Timer/Counter 
7242IJA  CMOS  Dlv|de-by-256  RC  Timer 
7250IJE  CMOS  BCD  Prog.  Timer/Counter 
7260IJE  CMOS  BCD  Prog.  Timer/Counter 
75S5IPA  CMOS  555  Timer  (8  pin) 
7556IPD  CMOS  556  Timer  [14  pin) 
7611BCPA  CMOS  Op  Amp  Comparator  5MV  2.25 
7612BCPA  CMOS  Op  Amp  Ext.  Cmvr.  5MV  2.95 
7621BCPA  CMOS  Dual  Op  Amp  Comp.  5MV  3.95 
7631CCPE  CMOS  Trl  Op  Amp  Comp.  10MV  5.35 
7641CCPD  CMOS  Quad  Op  Amp  Comp.  10MV  7.50 
7642CCPD  CMOS  Quad  Op  Amp  Comp.  10MV  7.50 
7660CPA  Voltage  Converter  2.95 
8069CCQ  50ppm  Band— GAP  Volt  Ref.  Diode  2.50 
8211CPA  volt  Ref/lndlcator  2.50 
8212CPA  Volt  Ref/lndlcator  2.50 
*  INTERSIL'S    EVALUATION    KITS 


"N 


Pri< 

14.95 
22.95 
16.95 
34.95 
15.95 
28.95 
18.95 
17.95 
2.25 
12.95 
19.95 
5.15 
9.95 
6.S0 
11.10 
17.95 
3.95 
13.95 
19.95 
32.00 
26.95 
21.95 
12.95 
10.95 
11.25 
31.95 
74.95 
4.95 
2.05 
6.00 
5.25 
1.45 
2.20 


74C0O 
74C02 
74C04 
74C08 
74C10 
74C14 
74C20 
74C30 
74C42 
74C48 
74C73 
74C74 
74C85 
74C86 
74C89 
74C90 
74C93 
74C95 


.39 


6.95 
1.29 
1.29 
1.59 


74C 


74  C 106 
74  C 107 
74C151 
74  C 154 
74C157 
74C160 
74C161 
74C162 
74C163 
74C164 
74C173 
74C174 
74C175 
74C192 
74C193 


2.95 
3.95 
2.25 


74  C 195 
74C221 
74C240 
74C244 
74C373 
74  C  374 
74C901 
74C903 
74C911 
74C912 
74C915 
74C917 
74C922 
74C923 
74C925 
74C926 
80C95 
B0C97 


1.59 
1.95 
2.25 
2.25 


1.15 
10.95 
10.95 
1.69 
10.95 
5.49 
5.75 
7.50 
7.50 


1.95 


LH0002CN  6.85 

LM1GCLH  4.50 

LM11CLH  4.75 

LH0070-OH  6.05 

TL071CP  .79 

TL072CP  1.39 

TL074CN  2.49 

LH0O82CD  35.80 

TL082CP  1.19 

TL084CN  2.19 

LH0094CD  36.80 

LM300H  .99 
LM301CN 
LM302H 
LM304H 
LM305H 

LM307CN  .45 

LM308CN  1.00 

LM309H  1.95 

LM309K  1.25 

LM310CN  1.75 

LM311H  .90 

LM312H  2.49 

LM317MP  1.15 

LM317T  1.75 

LM317K  3.95 

LM318CN  1.95 

LM319N  1.95 

LM320K-5  1.35 

LM320K-12  1.35 

LM320K-15  1.35 

LM320T-5  1.25 

LM320T-12  1.25 
LM320T-15 
LM323K-5 
LM324N 
LM329DZ 
LM331N 
LM334Z 
LM335Z 
LM336Z 
LM337T 
LM337MP 
LM338K 
LM339N 

LM340K-5  1.35 

LM340K-12  1.35 

LM340K-15  1.35 


5.95 


3.95 


6.95 


LINEAR 


LM340T-5 

1.25 

LM340T-12 

1.25 

LM340T-15 

1.25 

LM341P-5 

.75 

LM341P-12 

.75 

LM341P-I5 

.76 

LM342P-5 

.69 

LM342P-I2 

.69 

LM342P-15 

.69 

LM348N 

1.25 

LM350K 

5.75 

LF351N 

.60 

LF353N 

1.00 

LF355N 

1.10 

LF356N 

1.10 

LM358N 

1.00 

LM359N 

1.79 

LM370N 

4,49 

LM373N 

.i.i-S 

LM377N 

2.95 

LM3B0N 

L.StS 

LM381N 

1.95 

LM382N 

1.79 

LM364N 

1.95 

LM3S6N-3 

1.29 

LM3B7N 

1  45 

LM389N 

1.35 

LM392N 

.69 

LF398N 

4.00 

LM399H 

5.00 

TL494CN 

4.49 

TL496CP 

1.75 

NE510A 

6.00 

NE529A 

d.95 

NE531H 

3.95 

NES36H 

6.00 

NE540H 

6.00 

NE544N 

4.95 

NE550A 

1.30 

NE5S5V 

.39 

LM556N 

.99 

NE564N 

3.95 

LM565N 

1.25 

LM566CN 

1.95 

LM567V 

1.25 

NE570N  4.95 

LM702H  .79 

LM703CN  .89 
LM709N  .29 

LM710N  .79 

LM711N  .79 

LM723N  .69 

LM733N  1.00 

LM739N  1.19 

LM741CN  .35 
MC1741SCG  3.00 
LM747N  .79 

LM748N  .59 

LM1014N  2.75 
LM1310N  1.95 
LM1458CN  .59 
LM1438N  1.25 
LM1489N  1.25 
LM1496N  1.95 
LM1556V  1.75 
LM1800N  2.95 
LM1877N-9  3.25 
LM1889N  3.20 
LM1896N  1.75 
LM2002T 
LM2877P 
LM2878P 
LM2896P-1 
LM3189N 
LM390ON 
LM3905CN 
LM3909N 
LM3914N 
LM3915N 
LM3916N 
RC4136N 
RC4151NB  3.95 
RC4194TK 
RC4195TK 
KB4428 
KB4429 
LM4500A 
ICL8038B 
LM13080N 
LM13600N 
75138 N 
75450 N 
75451CN 


2.05 
2.25 
2.25 

2.95 


3.95 


5.95 


4.95 


CAPACITOR  CORNER 


Value 
10  pf 
22  pf 
47  pf 
100  pf 
220  pf 
470  pf 


50  VOLT  CERAMIC  DISC  CAPACITORS 


1-9     10-99    100+ 


.05 

.08       .06       .05 


Value 
-001/iF 
.0047m  F 
-OlyF 
.022LIF 
.04712  F 


1-9     10-99  100+ 


.09      .07 
.15       .12 


100  VOLT  MYLAR  FILM  CAPACITORS 

.OOlmf  .12       .10      .07      I    ,022mf  .13       .11       .08 

.0022mf  .12      .10       .07  .047mf  .21       .17      .13 

.0O47mf  .12      .10      .07  .lmf  .27       .23       .17 

,01mf  .12       .10       .07      I    .22mf  .33       .27       .22 

+20%  DIPPED  TANTALUMS  (Solid)  CAPACITORS 


-1/35V 
. 15/35 V 
. 22/35 V 
. 33/35 V 
.47/35V 
.68/35V 
1.0/35V 


.39 

.39 


1.5/35V 
2. 2/35 V 
3.3/25V 
4. 7/25 V 
6.8/25V 
15/25V 
22/6V 


.79      .69      .55 


MINI.  ALUMINUM  ELECTROLYTIC  CAPACITORS 


-47/50V 

1.0/50V 

3. 3/50 V 

4.7/25V 

10/25V 

10/50V 

22/25V 

22/50V 

47/25V 

47/50V 

100/25 V 

100/50V 

220/25 V 

220/50V 

470/25V 

1000/16V 

2200/16V 


.47/25V 
-47/50V 
1.0/16V 
1.0/25V 
1.0/50V 
4.7/16V 
4. 7/25 V 
4.7/50V 
10/16 V 
10/25V 
10/50V 
47/50V 
100/16V 
100/25V 
100/50V 
220/ 16  V 
470/26V 


Radial  Lead 


.15       .13      .12 


.15      .13      .12 
.16       .14      .13 


412       BYTE  November  1980 


Circle  373  on  Inquiry  card. 


/a 


sSnductor Clock  Modules 

12V  DC 

AUTOMOTIVE/ 

INSTRUMENT 

CLOCK 

APPLICATIONS: 

•  In  dash  autoclocks 

•  After-market  auto/ 
RV  clocks 

•  Aircraft-marine  elks. 

•  12VDC  oper.  instru. 

•  Portable/battery 
powered  instrumnts. 

Features: Bright  0.3"  green  display-  Internal  crystal  time- 
base.  ±  0.5  sec/day  accur.  Auto,  display  brightness  control 
logic.  Display  color  filterable  to  blue,  blue-green,  green  & 
yellow.  Complete— just  add  switches  and  lens. 

MA1003  Module $16.95 


MA1023  .7"LowCost  Digital  LED  Clock  Module  8.95 

MA1026  .7"  Dig.  LED  Alarm  Clock/Thermometer  18.95 

MA5036  .3"  Low  Cost  Digital  LED  Clock/T.mer  6.95 

MA1002  .5"  LED  Display  Dig.  Clock  &  Xformer  9.95 


2  National  Semiconductor 

v  RAM  SALE 

MM5290J-2  IMK4116/UPD416). .  .  $6.95  each 

16K  DYNAMIC  RAM  11  50IMS) 

(8  EACH  $49,951    (100  EACH  $560,00/lot) 

MM5298J-3A $3.25  each 

SK  DYNAMIC  RAM  (LOW  HALF  OF  MM5290J)  200NS 
(8  EACH  $23.95)    1100  EACH  S250  00/lot! 

MM21 14-3 $5.95  each 

4K  STATIC  RAM  I300NS) 

[8  EACH  $43.95!    (100  EACH  $450.00/lotl 

MM21 14L-3 $6.25  each 

4K  STATIC  RAM  (LOW  POWER  300NS) 
(8  EACH  $44,961    (100  EACH  $475.00/lot) 


EPROM  Erasing  Lamp 


•  Erases  2708,  2716.  1702A,  5203Q.  52040.  etc. 

•  Erases  up  to  4  chips  within  20  minutes. 

•  Maintains  constant  exposure  distance  of  one  inch. 

•  Special  conductive  foam  liner  eliminates  static  build-up. 

•  Built-in  safety  lock  to  prevent  UV  exposure. 

•  Compact  -  only  7-5/8"  x  2-7/8"  x  2" 

•  Complete  with  holding  tray  for  4  chips. 


UVS-11E $79.50 


Jumbo  6-Digit  Clock  Kit 


•  Four  .630"ht.  and  two  .300 "ht. 
common  anode  displays 

•  Uaes  MM5314  clock  chip 

•  Switches  for  hours,  minutes  and  hold  functions 

•  Hours  easily  viewable  to  30  feet 

•  Simulated  walnut  case 

•  115V AC  operation 

•  12  or  24  hour  operation 

•  Includes  ell  components,  case  and  wall  transformer 

•  Size:  6K"  x  3-1/8"  x  IK" 

JE747 $29.95 


6-Digit  Clock  Kit 


•  Bright   .300  ht.  comm.  cath- 
ode display 

•  Uses  MM5314  clock  chip 

•  Switches  for  hours,  minutes 
and  hold  modes 

•  Hrs.  easily  viewable  to  20  ft. 

•  Simulated  walnut  case 

•  1 1  5  V  AC  operation 

•  12  or  24  hr.  operation 

•  Incl.   all  components,  case  8. 
wail  transformer 

•Size:  6%"  N  3-1/8"  x  IX" 


JE701 .....$19.95 


Regulated  Power  Supply 

Uses  LM309K.  Heat  sink  " 
provided.  PC  board  con-  -* 
struction.  Provides  a  solid  *~" 
1  amp  @  5  volts.  Can  supply  up 
to  ±5V,  ±9V  and  ±12V  with 
J E 205  Adapter.  Includes  compo- 
nents, hardware  and  instructions. 
Size:  ZW  x   5"  x  2"H 

JE200 $14.95 


ADAPTER  BOARD 
-Adapts  to  JE200- 
±5V,  ±9V  and  ±12V 


DC/DC  converter  with  +5V  input.  Toriodal  hi- 
speed  switching  XMFR.  Short  circuit  protection. 
PC  board  construction.  Piggy-back  to  JE  200 
board.  Size:  3%"  x  2"  x  9/16"H 


\JE205 


$12.95 


MICROPROCESSOR  COMPONENTS 


-8080A/8080A  SUPPORT  DEVICES  - 


iNSSOBOA 

DPS212 

OP82M 

DPS216 
DPS2!4 

DPS2M 


NSS2« 
NSfcSO 
OPS7SI 


DPS2H 
OP127S 
DFW2TO 
DPB300 
DP8303 
DP&3M 
DPS307 
UP8308 


ir  for  4S  Series 


I/O  Exoi 

Asynchronous  Comm.  Elei 
Pros.  Comm.  I/O  (USART 
Prog.  Interval  Tlrrnr 
Prog.  Peripheral  I/O  {PPI) 
Proa.  DMA  Com.  to  I 
Prog.  Intenupl  Control 
Prog.  CRT  Controller 

Octal  Bus  Receiver 
System  Timing  Element 
8-Blt  Bi-Drrectional  Recet«- 
8-811  Bl-Dlrectlonal  Recelv 
8-Blt  Bl-Dlrectlonal  Recelv 


6800/6800  SUPPORT  DEVICES 

MCMOO  MPU 

MCM02CP  MPU  with  Clock  inn  RAM 

MCSI.0API  128x8  Static  RAM 

MCtKl  Peripheral  Inter.  Adapt  (MC6820) 

MC6828  Priority  Interrupt  Controller 

MC6830L8  102tx8-Blt  ROM  (MC6SA30-S) 

MCMS0  Asynchronous  Comm.  Adapter 

MCMS2  Synchronous  Serial  Data  Adapter 

MC6860  CHjOQbps  Digital  MODEM 

MC6K2  JWtops  Modulator 

MC6S80A  Quad  3-Stale  Bus.  Trans.  (MC8T2G) 

MICROPROCESSOR  CHIPS 

7BO(!80C)  CPU  (MK3SB0N) 

ZSOA  (TttVl)      CPU  (MK38S0NJ) 

CDP1802  CPU 

2650  MPU 

I DM2901  ADC  CPU-*-Bit  Slice  (Com.Temp.Grade) 

MCS6S02  MPU  w/ClocK  (65K  Bytes  Memory) 

MPU-  8- Bit  (SMHi) 

CPU    Sgl.Chlp8-Bit(128DytesRAM) 

CPU  (256  Bytes  RAM) 

CPU— «  Bytes  RAM 

CPU 

CPU— 16-Blt 

MPU— 16-Blt 


NS803SN-O 
NS8039N-6 
NSSMQN-6 
NS8070N 


MMSOOH 

MM503H 

MM506H 

MM5I0M 

MM  1402 

MM5013 

MM5016H 

MMS0MN 

MMM3SN 

2S0*V(1*WA) 

2S18N 

25HV 

2S24V 

2S2SV 

2527V 

2521 V 

2529V 

2532N 

334)  PC 


-SHIFT  REGISTERS- 

Oual  25-Bit  Dynamic 

Dual  50-Bit  Dynamic 

Oual  uw  Bit  Static 

Dual  54-Bit  Accumulator 

256- Bit  Dynamic 

1024-Bit  Dynamlc/Accumuli 

500/512-Bit  Dynamic 

Octal  10-Bit 

Octal  10-Blt 

1024-  Bit  Dynamic 

Hex  32-Bit  Static 

Dual  132-Bit  Static 

512-Bit  Dynamic 

1024-Bit  Dynamic 

OualZatj-BIt  Static 


Dual. 


t  Static 


ll  340  Bit  Stat 
Quad  10-Bit  Static 


-DATA  ACQUISITION- 


AF100-1CN 

AF121-1CJ  Touch  Tone  Low  Pass  Filter 

AF122-1CJ  Touch  Tone  Low  Pass  Filter 

LM308AH  Suoer  Gain  Op  Amp 

LM334Z  constant  Current  Source 

LM33SZ  Temperature  Transducer 

LFB6N  JFET  Input  Op  Amp 

LMJMH  Temp.  Comp.  Prec.  Ret.  (.5Ppm/C") 

ADC0804LCN  S-BIt  A/D  Converter  (1  LSB) 
DAC0806LCN  8-Bit  D/A  Converter  (0.78%  Lin.) 


-DATA  ACQUISITION  (CONTINUED)- 


ADC08O9CCN 

ADCOBHCCN 

DAC1000LCN 

DAC10MLCN 

DAC1020LCN 

DAC1022LCN 

DAC1222LCN 

CD40S1N 

AYS- 1013 


(B-Ch.  t 

B-HIt  A/D  Converter  (16-Ch.  Mui 
10-BHD/ACOnv.  Micro.  Comp. 

10-Blt  D/A  Converter  (0.05%  Lin 
10-Bit  D/A  Converter  (0.20%  Lin 
12-Bit  D/A  Converter  (0.20%  Lin 
8-Char 


MK  B 


3  UAR 


MM2147J 
5101 


1024x4  Static  45un* 
1024x4  Static  300ns 

1024x4  Static  300ns  ■ 
16.3S4xlDvnamic55 
4096x1  Fast  70ns 
256x4  Static 


MM  5261 

MM  5262 

MM528O/2107  4096x1  Dynamic 

MM 52903-2(4 116)      I6K  Dynamic  2S0ns  (I 

MM5298J-3A  8K  Dyn.  200ns  (lower 

7489 


:4  Static 


..  is-o 


1024x4  Static 


2KL 


BK  EPROM 

16K  EPROM  (-SV,  *5V,  * 
(2S.6)TI  16K  EPROM  (Single  *5V) 
(2S32)TI     32K  EPROM 

8K  EPROM  (450ns)  (5lngl 

204BPROM 
;iS«)  32x8  PROM  (Open  Collec 

4096  Bipolar  PROM 
S288)  32x8  T-i  stale  Bipolar  PR 


2513(2140) 
2513(3021) 
2516N 

MM5230N 


2048-Bit  Read  Only 


MCM66750P 


DS0Q2SCN 
OSCD26CN 
INS1771N-1 
INS2651N 
MMSB167N 
MM5B174N 
COP402N 


-MICROPROCESSOR  MANUALS- 


User  Manual 
-  SPECIAL  FUNCTION - 


Dual  MOS  Clock  Dru 
Dual  MOS  Clock  Drh 

Floppy  Disc  Control) 


trailer 


h  64-Olglt 


A  V -5-9100 
AV-S-9200 
AV-s-9500 
AY-S-2376 
HO016S-S 


lor.  Driver  (20-pin  pk' 

TELEPHONE/KEYBOARD  CHIPS- 

Push  Button  Telephone  Dialer 
Repertory  Dialer 
CMOS  Clock  Generator 
Keydoaro  Encooer  (88  keys) 
Keyboard  Encoder  {16  keys) 
Keyboard  Encoder  (16  keys) 
Keyooard  Encoder  (20  keys) 


Push 

96/144- Key  Serli 


Keybi 


DESIGNERS'  SERIES 
Blank  Desk-Top  Electronic  Enclosures 


•  High  strength  epoxy  molded 
end  pieces  in  mocha  brown 
finish. 

•  Sliding  rear/bottom  panel  for 
service  and  component  ac- 
cessibility. 

•  Top /bottom  panels.  080  thk 
alum.  Alodine  type  1200 
finish  (gold  tint  color)  for 
best  paint  adhesion  after 
modification. 

•  Vented  top  and  bottom 
panels  for  cooling  efficiency. 

•  Rigid  construction  provides 
unlimited  applications. 


CONSTRUCTION:    

The  "DTE"  Blank  Desk  Top  Electronic  Enclosures  are  designed  to  blend  and  complement 
today's  modern  computer  equipment  and  can  be  used  in  both  industrial  and  home.  The 
end  pieces  are  precision  molded  with  an  internal  slot  (all  around)  to  accept  both  top  and 
bottom  panels.  The  panels  are  then  fastened  to  V*."  thick  tabs  inside  the  end  pieces  to 
provide  maximum  rigidity  to  the  enclosure.  For  ease  of  equipment  servicing,  the  rear/ 
bottom  panel  slides  back  on  slotted  tracks  while  the  rest  of  the  enclosure  remains  in- 
tact. Different  panel  widths  may  be  used  while  maintaining  a  common  profile  outline. 
The  molded  end  pieces  can  also  be  painted  to  match  any  panel  color  scheme. 


Enclosure 
Model  No. 

Panel 
Width 

PRICE 

DTE-8 

8.00" 

$29.95 

DTE-11 

10.65" 

$32.95 

DTE-14 

14.00" 

$34.95 

$10.00  Min.  Order  -  U.S.  Funds  Only  Spec  Sheets  -  254 

Calif.  Residents  Add  6%  Sales  Ttx  1981  Catalog  Available  -  Send4Wstamp 

Postage  —  Add  5%  plus $1  Insurance  (if  desired) 


J  a 


PHONE 

ORDERS 

WELCOME 

(415)  592-8097 


MAIL  ORDER  ELECTRONICS  -  WORLDWIDE 

1355  SHOREWAY  ROAD,  BELMONT,  CA  94002 

PRICES  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE 


COMPUTER  CUBE" 


COMPUTER  CRT  MONITOR  &  ACCESSORY  CASE 

■  One  piece  heavy  duty  molded  construction 

•  Painted  to  match  Apple  II  &  III(Lt.  beige,  textured  finish) 

•  Smoke  colored  acrylic  front  cover  (removable) 

•  Built-in   shelf   holds  CRT  and  allows  room  for  2  Apple 

•  disk  drives  below  shelf 

•  Three  2V>"  holes  provided  in  bottom  of  case  for  addition 

•  of  fan  if  needed. 

•  Fan  hole  positioned  above  Apple  motherboard  location. 

•  Hookup  cables  can  be  run  through  other  2  holes. 
•Case  accommodates  most  B&W  and  Color  uncased  CRT 

•  monitors  made  by  Motorola,   Ball   Bros.,  Zenith,  Sanyo, 

•  Panasonic,  Hitachi,  etc.  or  any  monitor  that  will  fit  into 

•  10-3/8"H  x  14'/,"W  x  13%"D  space. 

•  Size:  15"  x  15"  x  1  5"  O.D.,  14JV'Hx  14/,"Wx  13WI.D. 

•  Weight:  approximately  12  lbs. 

•  CRT  monitor  fan  and  disk  drives  not  included. 

CUBE-1 $99.95 


TRS-80 
16K  Conversion  Kit 

Expand  your  4K  TRS-80  System  to  16K. 

Kit  comes  complete  with: 

•8  each  MM5290-2  (UPD416)  (16K  Dynamic  Rams) 

(250NS  or  less) 
*  Documentation  for  conversion 

TRS-16K  $49.95 


JE610  ASCII 
Encoded  Keyboard  Kit 


The  JE610  ASCII  Keyboard  Kit  can  be  interfaced  into 
most  any  computer  system.  The  kit  comes  complete 
with  an  Industrial  grade  keyboard  switch  assembly 
(62-keys),  IC's,  sockets,  connector,  electronic  compo- 
nents and  a  double-sided  printed  wiring  board.  The 
keyboard  assembly  requires  +5V  @  150mA  and  —12V 
■yi  10  mA  for  operation.  Features;  60  keys  generate  the 
126  characters,  upper  and  lower  case  ASCII  set.  Fully 
buffered.  Two  user-define  keys  provided  for  custom 
applications.  Caps  lock  for  upper-case-only  alpha  charac- 
ters, Utilizes  a  2376  (40-pin)  encoder  reed-only  memory 
chip.  Outputs  directly  compatible  with  TTL/DTL  or 
MOS  logic  arrays.  Easy  interfacing  with  a  16-pin  dip  or 
18-pin  edge  connector. 

JCOlO  (Case  not  included)  5j>f  "-"5 
K62  (Keyboard  only)    $34.95 

Desk-Top  Enclosure  for 
JE610  ASCII  Encoded  Keyboard  Kit 

Compact  desk-top  enclosure:  Color-coordinated  de- 
signer's case  with  light  tan  aluminum  panels  and  molded 
end  pieces  in  mocha  brown.  Includes  mounting  hardware. 
Size:  3»"H  %  14K"iV  x  S«"D. 

DTE-AK  ■ $49.95 


SPECIAL:  JE610/DTE-AK  PURCHASED  TOGETHER 
(Value  $129.90) $124.95 


JE600 
Hexadecimal  Encoder  Kit 


FULL  8-BIT 
LATCHED  OUTPUT 
19-KEY  KEYBOARD 


The  JE600  Encoder  Keyboard  Kit  provides  two  separate 
hexadecimal  digits  produced  from  sequential  key  entries 
to  allow  direct  programming  for  8-bit  microprocessor 
or  8-bit  memory  circuits.  Three  additional  keys  are  pro- 
vided for  user  operations  with  one  having  a  bistable 
output  available.  The  outputs  are  latched  and  monitored 
with  9  LEO  readouts.  Also  included  isa  key  entry  strobe. 
Features:  Full  8  bit  latched  output  for  microprocessor 
use.  Three  user-define  keys  with  one  being  bistable 
operation.  Debounce  circuit  provided  for  alt  19  keys. 
9  LED  readouts  to  verify  entries.  Easy  interfacing  with 
standard  16-pin  IC  connector.  Only  +5VDC  required 
for  operation, 

JE600    (Case  not  included)      $59.95 

K19  (Keyboard  only)    $14.95 


Desk-Top  Enclosure  for 
JE600  Hexadecimal  Keyboard  Kit 

Compact  desk-top  exclosure:  Color-coordinated  de- 
signer's case  with  light  tan  aluminum  panels  and  molded 
end  pieces  in  mocha  brown.  Includes  mounting  hardware. 
Size:  3%"H  x  8V'W  x  8%"D. 

DTE-HK $44.95 


SPECIAL:  JE600/DTE-HK  PURCHASED  TOGETHER 
(Value  $104.90) $99.95 


Circle  373  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980        413 


CompuMart  has  been  selling  com- 
puters by  mail  since  1971.  Our  thou- 
sands ot  satisfied  customers  rely  on 
CompuMart  for  services  not  generally 
available  from  the  others.  Namely: 

•  Product  Selection/Each  product  ad- 
vertised by  CompuMart  has  been  eval- 
uated by  our  in-house  staff  for  best 
price,  performance,  and  supplier  reli- 
ability 

•  Return  Privilege/After  receipt  of  our 
products,  you  are  protected  by  Compu 
Mart's  exclusive,  10-day  return  privi- 


ledge-  good  for  all  products  except 
software. 

•  Support/Our  Customer  Service  Dept. 
and  expert  technicians  are  always  there 
to  assist  you  by  phone  or  at  Compu- 
Mart's  outlets.  Our  knowledgeable 
phone  sales  force  can  provide  you  with 
detailed  information  and  complete 
product  specifications. 

•  Phone  Ordering/For  added  conveni- 
ence, CompuMart  maintains  a  toll-free 
ordering  number.  1-800-343-5504. 

•  Phones  open  MTWThF     8:30  a.m.  -  7:00 
p.m.     Sat.  11:00  a.m.  -  4:00  p.m. 


with  lO  day  free  return 
= =  Printers  — — 


The  Paper  Tiger 
Printer  From 
Integral  Data 

Uses  standard  %  inch  roll 

paper  and  riDoon 

40  characters  per  line 

Speed:  40  characters 

per  second 

UL  approved 

High  resolution  dot 
matrix  impact  printer 

IDS  Paper  Tiger  Printer $995 

IDS  Graphics  Paper  Tiger  Printer $1,094 

FREE  Cable  with  your  Paper  Tiger. 


NEW!  From  Integral  Data. 
The  IDS  460. 

We  saw  this  new  desktop  printer  at  the  NCC  80 
and  when  we  saw  its  features;  Correspondence 
quality  printing.  High-resolution  graphics  capa- 
bility, programmable  print  control  functions,  and 
automatic  text  justification  — we  knew  that  we  had 
to  offer  this  printer  to  our  cost/features  conscious 
customers  $1,295 

The  Omni  810  Printer  from 
Texas  Instruments 

Tl  Omni  820  Receive-Only  (TO)  Package.  Includes 
machine-mounted  paper  tray  and  cable.  A  com- 
pressed print  option  and  device  forms  control  are 
standard  features  $2,155 


Tl  Omni  820  Keyboard  Send  Receive 
(KSR)  Package  Comes  with  full  ASCII 
Keyboard  with  numeric  Key-  pad  and 
i  EIA  cable  with  autospeed  select. 
$2,395 


CENTRONICS  PRINTERS 

New!  The  incredible  Model  737-  Correspondence 
and  Draft  Quality  Printing  for  Under  $1,000.  This  is 
the  first  printer  in  its  class  to  offer  print  quality 
suitable  for  text  processing,  plus  the  performance 
and  application  flexibility  required  for  data  pro- 
cessing. 

737-1  (Parallel  Interface)—  $899 

737-3  (Serial  Interface)  $1,045 

Tractor  Feed  Printer-  Centronics'  Most  Popular 
Model.  Perfect  for  the  needs  of  a  small  business 
sytesm.  Recommended  by  Apple  and  Radio  Shack. 

$1,079 

FREE  Cable  with  purchase  of  any  Centronics  printer. 

NEC  The  First  Name  in  Letter 
Quality  Printers. 

CompuMart  offers  beautiful  print  quality  with  NEC 
Spinwriter  terminals.  The  Spinwriters,  both  KSR 
and  RO  versions,  give  unsurpassed  hard  copy 
output.  CompuMart  offers  a  complete  range  of 

NEC  Spin-  writers  — Call  our 
expert  salesforce 


Compumart  will  throw  in 
a  FREE  fabric  ribbon  and 
Currier  72  element  when 
you  buy  a  NEC  from  us. 


Terminals^ 


We've  got  the  following  Lear  Sieg- 
ler  Terminals  In  Stock  at  prices 
too  low  to  print— Call  for  quotes. 

ADM-3A  Industries  favorite  dumb  terminal  for 

some  very  smart  reasons. 

ADM-3A.+  New  from  Lear  Siegler.  CALL! 


ADM-31.  The  terminal  that's  too  smart  to  be  con- 
sidered dumb. 

ADM-42.  Available  with  keyboard  semi- 
intelligent  terminal  offering  tremendous  user  flexi- 
bility. The  optional  configurations 
are  amazing. 


Call  for  details. 


HAZELTINE  TERMINALS  AT 
SPECTACULAR  SAVINGS! 


Hazeltine  1410. 
Hazeltine  1420. 
Hazeltine  1500. 
Hazeltine  1510. 
Hazeltine  1520. 
Hazeltine  1552. 


List  $850 
List  $995 
List  $1095 
List  $1395 
List  $1585 
List  $1395 


CompuMart  $749 

CompuMart  $895 

CompuMart  $995 

CompuMart  $1325 

CompuMart  $1485 

CompuMart  $1295 


Call  CompuMart  for  complete  specs 
and  quantity  discounts. 


Calculators 


A  CALCULATOR,  A  SYSTEM,  A 
WHOLE  NEW  STANDARD. 

HEWLETT-PACKARD'S  HP-41C 

HP-41C  Calculator $288.00 

The  System 

Memory  Modules.  For  storing  programs  or  up  to 

2,000  lines  of  program  memory $45.00 

"Extra  Smart"  Card  Reader.  Records  programs  and 

data  back  onto  blank  mag-cards $199.00 

The  Printer.  Upper  and  Lower  case,  High  resolution 

plotting,  Portable  Thermal  operation $355.00 

Application  Modules   $45.00  EACH 

Standard  pac:  ^^^^—  m  M  be* 

Statistics,        Mtk        B  A 

Math, 

Financial  & 
Surveying 


1/2  off  Financial  Decisions  PAC 
with  purchase  of    HP-41 

NOVATION  CATM 

ACCOUSTIC  MODEM 

•  Answer  Originate  •  Bell  108 

•  300  Baud  •  Low  Profile  Design 
Looks  good,  works  great!  $169.00 


Texas  Instruments  TI-99/4  Home 

Computer 

Save  $300  on  this  16-Bit  computer  with 

monitor 

TI-99/4  w/Monitor  $1250 

TI-99/4  w/o  Monitor  $  950 


Monitors^ 


NEW   FROM   SANYO  — Four  Great  Moni- 
tors  at  Low  CompuMart  Prices. 
Sanyo's  new  line  of  CRT  data  display  monitors  are 
specifically  designed  for  the  display  of  alpha- 
numeric or  graphic  data. 
9"  Sanyo  Monitor  $179 

12"  Sanyo  Monitor  $289 

12"  Sanyo  Monitor  with  green  screen    $299  ^ 

13"  Sanyo  Color  Display  Monitor  $495 


Free  6'  Cable 
with  purchase  of  any  Sanyo 


EXCLUSIVE  from  CompuMart! 

Special  Offer.  Zenith  Color  Video 

Monitor  for  $379! 
The  perfect  monitor  for  Apple,  Atari 
and  Texas  Instruments  owners. 


BYTE  November  1980 


Circle  374  on  inquiry  card 


We  carry  the  most  complete  inventory 
of  Apple  computers,  peripherals,  and 
software.  CALL! 
Our  Christmas  Apple  Special:  save  over 

$250  on  our  most  popular  Apple  System.  System 

includesa  48K  Apple  II,  Apple  Disk  &  Controller,  and 

a  Sup  B  Mod  RF  Modulator. 

List:  $2,020 

Compumart  Sale  Price:  $1,769 

New  from  Apple  for  the  Apple  II: 

DOS  3-3  Convert  disks  to  16  sector  format  for  23% 

more  storage  and  faster  access  $60 

Apple  Plot.  The  perfect  graphic  complement  for 

Visicalc.  $70 

Dow  Jones  News  &  Quotes  $95 

Adventure  (Uses  48K)  $35 

DOS  Tool  Kit  $75 

Apple  Fortran  $200 

Silentype  Printer  w/Xface  $595 

Visicalc  $149 

Tax  Planner  $1 20 

From  Symtech  &  Info  Unlimited 

Super  Sound  Generator     (mono)  $159     (stereo)  $259 

Light  Pen  $249 

X-10  Controller  (plugs  into  paddle  port)  $49 

Apple  Sync  Controller  $49 

From  Personal  Software 

Visicalc  $149 

Desk  top  plan  $99 

New  from  Videx!   —  Video  Term 

80  Col.  x  24  line 

7x9  matrix,  plug  in  compatible  board  for  the  Apple 

II.  Price  $325  without  graphics  EPROM.  With 

graphics  EPROM  $350. 

New  from  MUSE 

The  Voice  $39.95 

Super  Text  $99.00 

Address  Book  $49.95 


Mountain  Hardware  —  Expansion  accessories  for 

your  Apple 

lntrol/X-10  System 

$289 

Super  Talker 

$299 

The  Music  System 

$545 

ROM  plus  board  w/keyboard  filter 

$199 

Clock  Calendar 

$280 

16  Channel  A  to  D  Converter 

$350 

Apple  Expansion  Chassis 

$650 

ROM  Writer 

$175 

Miscellaneous  Apple  II  Accessories: 

Easy  Writer  (80  col.  need  Videx) 

$249 

Easy  Mover 

$   49 

Easy  Mailer 

$  69 

Dysan  Diskettes 

ea.  $     5 

S.S.M.  Serial  &  Parallel  Apple  Interface 

$225 

ABT's  Numeric  Key  Pad 

$110 

Preview  of  the  Apple  III 


Buy  $1,000  worth  of  merchandise  from  this  ad. 
including  at  our  special  sale  prices  and  deals,  and 
we'll  ship  you  a  Texas  Instrument's  Speak  &  SpellTM 
with  your  order.  This  is  Tl's  famous  talking  and  learn- 
ing aid  with  the  electronic  voice  and  brain.  It's  an 
incredible  electronic  learning  aid  for  children  aged  7 
and  up.  A  $69.95  Value  Yours  FREE  with  $1,000  pur- 
chase. 

SUPER  SALE  PRICED  TO  MOVE! 

We  want  to  move  our  inventory  of  Zenith  Z-89  and 
Exidy  Computers.  To  do  it,  we've  priced  them  so  low 
you'll  have  to  call  us  for  prices.  If  you  want  either  of 
these  two  great  computers,  call  us  now  while  sup- 
plies last  for  the  best  prices  you'll  find  anywhere. 
Good  selection  of  Zenith  and  Exidy  peripherals  as 
well. 

. COMMODORE  


Buy  direct  from  the  biggest  —  Compumart  has  deliv- 
ered more  Commodore  computers  in  the  U.S.  than 
any  other  dealer.  We  were  Commodore's  first  dealer 
and  carry  everything  Commodore  manufactures.  In 
stock  for  immediate  delivery!  Call  us  now  for  low 
prices  and  special  deals. 
NEW  FOR  PET: 

Visicalc  (Need  32K  and  a  disk  drive)  $199 

Word  Pro  1,  $29.95  •  Word  Pro  2,  $99.95  • 
Word  Pro  3,  $199.95  •  Word  Pro  4,  $299.95  • 


ROCKWELL  AIM  65 

The  single  board  development  system 
that's  perfect  in  the  classroom  or  lab. 

Our  AIM  System  includes:  4K  AIM  with  BASIC 
interpreter  assembler,  Power  Supply,  Cassette 
recorder  &  Enclosure  $799. 

4KAIM  —  65 

PL65  High  Level  Language  $125 

Paper  for  the  AIM  (roll)  $    2.50 

Rockwell's  4-slot  Motherboard  (SALE)  $175 

CompuMart's  Microflex  65  System  for  your  AIM 
Includes:  Adapter  Buffer  Module  w/  4-slot  module 
stack,  8K  RAM  module,  16K  PROM/ROM  module. 
Asynchronous  communications  Interface,  &  Power 
Supply  $1,299 

Call  or  write  for 
our  complete 
Microflex  65 
brochure 


These  4  new  Flexible  Disk  Drives  provide  fast  on-line 
storage  using  flexible  disks 

•HP82901M.  Supplies  approx.  540K  bytes  of  on-line 
storage.  $2,500 

•HP  82902M.  Approx.  270K  bytes  of  on-line  storage. 

$1,500 
'HP  82901S.  Supplies  an  additional  540K  bytes  when 
connected  to  an  HP  82901 M  or  an  HP  82902M. 

$2,200 
•HP  829025.  Supplies  an  additional  270K  bytes  when 
connected  to  an  HP  82901 M  or  an  HP  82902M. 

$1,300 

The  Hewlett-Packard  7225A.  High  Quality/Low  Cost 
Graphics  Plotter.  $2,050 

Call  our  expert  sales  force  for  complete  product 
specifications. 

COM  PU MARTS  EXCLUSIVE 
ATARI  SPECIALS.  (Pick  one) 

3  Ways  to  save  when  you  buy  the  Atari  800  from  us. 

1)  Free  8K  of  memory  with  purchase.  (So  your  Atari 
will  come  to  you  with  24K.) 

2)  Free  410  program  recorder  with  purchase  ($89.95 
value). 

3)  $100  off  Atari  Disk  Drive  purchase. 

ATARI  800  Personal  Computer 
System  — 

Comes  with  800  Operators  Manual,  16K  RAM 
Memory  module,  10  K  ROM  Operating  System, 
power  supply,  TV  Switch  Box.  $1080.00 

PERIPHERALS 

Atari  410  Program  Recorder  (FREE  w/purchase  of 
Atari  800)  $     89.95 

Atari  810  Disk  Drive  ($100  off  with  purchase)     699.95 
New  Dual  Disk  double  density  1499.95 

825  Printer  (Centronics  737)       ,  995.00 

RS232  Interface  w/Cable    -^  '"         ?  249.95 

NEW!  Light  Pens  M^fete  74-95 


Circle  374  on  Inquiry  card 


Phones 
open  from 
8:30  a.m.  to 
7:00  p.m.,  Mon.- 
Fri.;  11:00  a.m. -4:00 
p.m.  Sat.  P.O.'s  accepted 
from  Dun  &  Bradstreet 
rated  companies  -  shipment 
contingent  upon  receipt  of  signed 
purchase  order.  Sale  prices  valid  for 
month  of  magazine  date  only  -  all  prices 
subject  to  change  without  notice.  Our  Ann 
Arbor  retail  store  is  open  1 1 :00  a.m.  to  7:00 
p.m.  Tues.-Fri.,  10:00  a.m.  to  5:00  p.m.  Saturdays. 
Stop  by  and  visit. 


COMPUMART 

270  THIRD  ST.,  P.O.  BOX  568,  DEPT.  111,  CAMBRIDGE,  MA.  02139 


Member  Computer  Dealers  Assoc. 


We've  had  a  reputation  for  dependability  since  1971 


C.  Itoh's  Starwriter  Daisy  Wheel  Printer  is  designed  to  fill  a  distinct  gap  in  the  peripheral  market  place.  A  speed  of 
25  cps  and  its  low  price  make  it  the  ideal  choice  for  today's  system  designer  interested  in  achieving  superior  price/perform- 
ance ratios. 

Incorporating  the  latest  LSI  technology,  the  STARWRITER  is  built  by  one  of  the  world's  most  respected  peripheral 
manufacturers.  The  printer  is  furnished  complete  and  ready  to  use,  requiring  no  changes  in  hardware  or  software.  STAR- 
WRITER  offers  the  industry  standard  parallel  interface,  as  well  as  the  RS-232  interface  with  voltage  or  current  mode  capac- 
ity. Total  plug  compatibility  and  a  wide  variety  of  interface  matching  capabilities  help  lower  system  integration  costs  and 
the  25  cps  model  is  also  easily  upgraded  to  a  45  cps  printer. 

Using  a  96  character  wheel,  the  STARWRITER  produces  letter  quality  printing  on  3  sharp  copies  with  up  to  163 
columns.  STARWRITER  offers  the  highest  degree  of  horizontal  and  vertical  positioning,  resulting  in  the  most  precise  char- 
acter placement  in  the  industry.  The  easy-to-change  character  wheel  also  makes  our  printer  a  perfect  choice  for  international 
applications.  Compatible  with  sheet  feeders,  STARWRITER  accommodates  paper  widths  to  381  mm  (15")  and  uses  indus- 
try standard  ribbon  cartridges. 

Along  with  a  self-test  capability  and  a  programmable  VFU  (Vertical  Format  Unit),  STARWRITER  furnishes  the  oper- 
ator with  all  desirable  status  functions,  commands  and  program  selectable  switches.   Panel  lamps  indicate  the  current  Paper, 
Select  and  Power  status. 

The  easy  plug-in  compatibility  of  STARWRITER  and  its  outstanding  print  performance  continue  C.  Itoh's  tradition 
of  providing  reliable  peripheral  equipment  to  systems  users  the  world  over. 

STARWRITER  is  backed  by  a  one-year  warranty  (three  months  on  parts  and  labor,  9  succeeding  months  on  parts) 
and  is  supported  by  a  strong,  fully  trained  and  technically  proficient  service  organization. 


A  compete  W/P  package  to  add  to  your  computer 
system  now  available.  VR  Data  has  integrated 
the  C.  Itoh  Daisy  Wheel  Printer  and  the  Magic  Wand 
Word-Processing  Program  into  a  high-powered 
inexpensive  word   processing  package.  As  an 
introductory  offer  we  have  the  entire  package 
for  $2295.00*  -  a  $200.00  savings  over  the  combined 
list  price. 

*  Add  $75.00  for  RS232  interface. 


-,©, 


Printer  specs: 

•  DIABLO^  Wheels  &  Supplies 

•  Letter  Quality 

•  25  CPS  -  Rapid  Seeking  -  Bi-Directional 

•  45  CPS  Optional 

•  Parallel  Interface,  Serial  Optional 

•  Tractors  Available 


Priced  Separately: 

C.  Itoh  Starwriter  $2195.00 

options: 

45  CPS  600.00 

RS232  interface  75.00 

Tractors  250.00 


WE  SERVICE  MANY  BRANDS  OF  COMPUTER  EQUIPMENT. 

CALL  FOR  CONSULATION  AND  ESTIMATE. 

DEALER  INQUIRES  INVITED  •  BIDS  ACCEPTED  •  ABOVE  PRICES 
777  HENDERSON  BLVD.  ARE  CASH  DISCOUNTED,  CALL  FOR  OTHER  TERMS. 

FOLCROFT,  PA  19032      ORDER  NOW  •  TOLL  FREE      1  (800)  345-8102  •  IN  PENNSYLVANIA     (215)  461-5300 


416       BYTE  November  1980 


Circle  375  on  inquiry  card. 


•SALE* 

TRS-80 

Disk  &  Other 

Mysteries 

$19.95 

reg.  $22.95  , 


VR  DATA'S 
DISK  DRIVE 
HEADQUARTERS 

77  track  $545 

DRIVES     «*^»* 

|gPnl  mm  EiUi  new  low  price 


TRS-80  Model  I  compatible 


4°  ESS&'MO 

Lv  ■■  I   lJF  I  H  SI  NEWLOWPRiCE 


TRS-80  Model  I  compatible 


ORDER  NOW  TOLL  FREE  1  (800)  345-8102 


TRS-8CT 
64K  MODEL  II 

$3495.00 

NEW  LOW  PRICE 


Model  II  Drives 

1  Drive  Single  Enclosure  S  899.00 

1  Drive  Multiple  Enclosure  1069.50 

Additional  Drives  for  Mult.  Enc.  540.00 


MOD.  I  MOD.  II 

$1500 
300 
$149.95  249 

99.95  199 

149.95  299 

Tape  Disk 

$19.95  $24.95 

34.95  34.95 

$175.00 
100.00 
145.00 
Software  Documentation  Available*  CALL  FOR  PRICES 


SOFTWARE 

Medical/Dental  Patient  Accounting 
Word  Processing  (Magic  Wand) 
General  Ledger 
Payroll 
Data  Base 

Upper/Lower  Case  Modificatron 

Comprehensive  Diagnostics 

CP/M 

New  DOS  +  40  TK 

New  DOS/80 


IN  PENNSYLVANIA     (215)  461-5300 


SUPERBRAINM 

BY INTERTEC 

64K   $2995.^ 


5-1/4"  disk  drives  •  in  stock 


I? 
I 

I 

I. 


•  VR  DATA  Coupon  < 


$ 


5  Off! 
ANY  ITEM  OVE 


OFFER  EXPIRES  12  1  80  ' 


■ 
II  OVER  $50.00 

I  ONE  COUPON  PER  ITEM       "W 


*1 
I 
I 

I 


4K  L  II  TRS-80  575.70 

16K  L  II  789.60 

RS-232  92.10 

OK  Expansion  Interface  278.10 

16K  Expansion  Interface  376.10 

32K  Expansion  Interface  474.10 

Telephone  Modem  179.95 

Emulator  CRT  by  Intertec  895.00 
CRT  Stands                        from         139.00 

Anti-static  Mats  1 10.00 


ft" 
I 

I 

I. 


•  VR  DATA  Coupon  4 


$10  Off! 

^^^^      ANY  ITEM  OVE 


OFFER  EXPIRES  12  11 


ANYITEMOVER  $150.00 


ONE  COUPON  PER  ITEM 


*1 
I 
I 
I 


VISIT  OUR  NEW  WAREHOUSE  SHOWROOM  AND  REPAIR  CENTER* 


WE  SERVICE  MANY  BRANDS  OF  COMPUTER  EQUIPMENT. 

CALL  FOR  CONSULATION  AND  ESTIMATE. 

DEALER  INQUIRES  INVITED  •  BIDS  ACCEPTED  •  ABOVE  PRICES 
777  HENDERSON  BLVD.  ARE  CASH  DISCOUNTED,  CALL  FOR  OTHER  TERMS. 

FOLCROFT,  PA  19032      ORDER  NOW  •  TOLL  FREE      1  (800)  345-8102  •  IN  PENNSYLVANIA     (215)  461-5300 


Circle  375  on  inquiry  card. 


BYTE  November  1980        417 


DP/ NET:  Redefined 


INDIVIDUAL/NET 


WORD  PROCESSOR 


S-100,  7  Slot,  360K  Double  Density 


DUAL/NET 


SMALL  BUSINESS 
APPLICATIONS 


Up  To  4  Terminals 
Can  Be  Slaved  Off  Master 


LOCAL/NET 


TELEPHONE/NET 


OVERSEAS 


AUSTRALIA 


UNITED  KINGDOM 


ASP  MICROCOMPUTERS      TERODEC  (MICRO  SYSTEMS)  LTD. 


799  Dandenong  Road 
East  Malvern  3145 
Victoria,  AUSTRALIA 
TEL:  2118855-2118344 


17  The  Gallop,  Yateley, 
Camberley,  Surrey 
6U17  7SG  ENGLAND 
TEL:  0252  874790 


CENTRAL  EUROPE 
HANNES  KELLER  AG 

Computer-Zentrum 
Eidmattstrasse  36 
CH-8032,  Zurich 
SWITZERLAND 
TEL:  01  89  36  33 


SOUTH  AMERICA 


FAR  EAST 


INVERSIONES  URIMAN  c.a.     MICROBOARDS 


P.O.  Box  1041 
Maracaibo  4001A, 
VENEZUELA 
TEL:  33015 


1-7-1-1003  Saiwal-Cho 
Chiba  City,  Chiba  260  JAPAN 
TEL:  0472(47)3081 


Configurability 


SYSTEM/NET 


LARGE  SYSTEM  NUCLEUS 


Hard  Disc  and  8"  Floppy 
Any  Combination  of  Master  or  Slave 


MASTER/NET 


CANADA 

CESCO  ELECTRONICS  LTD. 

4050  Jean  Talon  Street  WEST 
Montreal,  CANADA  H4P  1W1 
TEL:  (514)  735-5511 


BENELUX 

MICR0SP0T 

Postbus  564-3700  AN  Zeis) 

Verheullaan  3-3971  RD  Driebergen 

HOLLAND 

TEL:  03438-0)8899 


"BUY"  WORD  FOR  THE  1980's 

NETWORKING  is  the  newest  'buzzword'  in 
microprocessors .  Delta  Products  has  produced  a 
superior  hardware  system  that  cannot  be  matched  in 
either  cost  or  performance. 

Don't  buy  a  system  that  has  "designed-in"  limitations; 
check  the  following: 

PERFORMANCE 

This  is  where  DP/NET®  beats  them  all.  Delta  does  multiuser 
and  multitasking  operations  by  using  distributed  processors. 
DIGITAL  RESEARCH  has  provided  a  new  operating  system 
(CP/NET®)  which  combines  MP/M®  and  CP/M  2.2®  into  the 
world's  most  powerful  microcomputer  system. 
The  system  cannot  be  bogged  down  by  adding  more  users. 
High-speed  DMA  transfers  from  Host  to  Slave,  allow  many 
processors  to  share  workloads.  (There  can  be  3  processors  at 
EACH  user  terminal;  a  ZSOfor  screen  function,  and  a  pair  of 
8085/8088  for  main  processing.) 

FLEXIBILITY 

One  of  the  most  important  advantages  of  DP/NET®  is  that 
you  never  have  to  purchase  more  system  than  you  currently 
need.  Your  system  can  start  with  a  5"  minifloppy  32K 
terminal  for  under  $3000.00.  Adding  a  second  terminal  and 
additional  mass  storage  is  as  simple  as  the  original 
purchase.  Networking  up  to  16  OR  MORE  intelligent  and 
semi-intelligent  work  stations  can  follow  in  perfect  step 
with  the  growth  of  your  Company  and  requirements. 

COST 

Since  you  never  buy  more  computer  power  than  you  need,  the 
system  cost  is  matched  to  the  demand  to  be  placed  upon  it. 
DELTA  PRODUCTS  has  a  lot  of  experience  in  building 
micros,  with  over  2000  DELTA  systems  now  in  the  field. 
DELTA  component  cost  has  always  been  extremely 
competitive.  DELTA'S  new  "networking  system"  is  a 
natural  and  simple  combination  of  the  competitive  "good 
deals"  we  have  been  offering  for  some  time. 

SOFTWARE 

A  computer  system  to  the  end  user  IS  THE  SOFTWARE.  All 
CP/M®  compatible  programs  run  perfectly  on  the  DP/NET®. 
DELTA  PRODUCTS  is  currently  writing  its'  own 
high-performance  custom  data  base,  screen  editor,  order 
entry/inventory,  and  accounting  packages  in  PL/1®.  Target 
release  date  for  the  complete  package  is  November,  1980. 

SOLD  ONLY  THROUGH  DEALERSHIPS 
CALL  FOR  YOUR  NEAREST  REPRESENTATIVE 


DELTA  PRODUCTS 

15392  Assembly  Lane 
Huntington  Beach,  CA  92649 


TELEX:  681-367  DELTMAR  HTBH 


MP/M,  CP/M2.2,  PL/1  &  CP/NET  ARE  REG.  TM  OF  DIGITAL  RESEARCH  INC 


Circle  376  on  Inquiry  card. 


iiasllPlils&ail 

3  MOREV  „ 
jjmPS;]  « 

^Ngl 

.bE^I  J 

w& 

ioyii|i 

FOR  MORE 
S  INFORMATION 
SEE  OUR 


■m  -Wl  SELECTION  GUIDE 
IN  THE  NOVEMBER  BIT!  MAGAZINE 

Terms:  Visa,  MC,  BAC,  Check,  Money  Order,  U-S.  Funds  Only.  CA  residents 
add  6%  sales  tax.  Minimum  order  $15.00  Prepaid  U.S.  orders  less  than  $75.00 
include  5%  shipping  and  handling.  MINIMUM  $2.50.  Excess  refunded.  Just  in 
case...please  include  your  phone  number.  Prices  subject  to  change  without 
notice.  We  will  do  our  best  to  maintain  prices  thru  November  1980. 


"^problem  e™*1!! 

YOU  P^QUOJl^     P/W 


\  o      f 

1     -0       ■ 

%  1 

ppr 

ITT 

nl    1 
"  11 

F  II 

i/>  II 

Jf 

1 

o 
m 

M 

f 

n 

V        1 

V  SA/D  BUILD  300 
DRIVES  /vQr  300o» 


* 


„*v 


%, 


M«P 


W° 


616.oa  II  M/cRoPnusr 


^ 


% 


*Oa 


%  *° 


^/s 


^, 


McP 


1>0& 


"°* 


'o. 


MCP 


102^ 


% 


B 


«f 


V 


1.A043-5 


JORITY  L_ONE_J  ELECTRONICS 


v 


i? 


^ 


^ 


SSssBs 

HkSSK 


% 


a 


Circle  377  on  inquiry  card. 


7400 


SN7400N 
SN7401N 
SN7A02N 
SN7403N 
SN7404N 
SN7405N 
SN7406N 
SN7407N 
SN7408N 
SN7409N 
SN7410N 
SN7411N 
SN7412N 
SN7413N 
SN7414N 
SN7416N 
SN7417N 
SN7420N 
SN7421N 
SN7422N 
SN7423N 
SN7425N 
SN7426N 
SN7427N 
SN7429N 
SN7430N 
SN7432N 
SN7437N 
SN7438N 
SN7439N 
SN7440N 
SN7441N 
SN7442N 
SN7443N 
SN7444N 
SN7445N 
SN7446N 
SN7447N 
SN7448N 
SN7450N 
SN7451N 
SN7453N 
SN74S4N 
SN7459N 
SN7460N 
SN7470N 
SN7472N 
SN7473N 
SN7474N 
SN7475N 
SN7476N 
SN7479N 
SN7480N 
SN7481N 
SN74S2N 
SN7483N 
SN7485N 
SN7486N 
SN7489N 
SN7490N 
SN7491N 
SN7492N 
SN7493N 
SN7494N 
SN7495N 
SN7496N 
SN7497N 
SN74100N 
SN74107N 
SN74109N 
SN74116N 
SN74121N 
SN74122N 


SN74123N 
SN7412SN 
SN74126N 
SN7412SN 
SN74132N 
SN74136N 
SN74139N 
5N74141N 
SN74142N 
SN74143N 
SN74144N 
SN74145N 
SN74147N 
SN74148N 
SN74150N 
SN74151N 
SN74152N 
SN74153N 
SN74154N 
SN74155N 
SN74156N 
SN74157N 
SN 74  ISSN 
SN74 I 60N 
SN74161N 
SN74162N 
SN74163N 
SN74164N 
SN74165N 
SN74166N 
SN74167N 
SN74170N 
SN74172N 
SN74173N 
SN74174N 
SN74175N 
SN74176N 
SN74177N 
SN74179N 
SN74180N 
SN74181N 
SN74182N 
SN74184N 
SN74185N 
SN74186N 
SN74188N 
SN74190N 
SN74191N 
SN74192N 
SN74193N 
SN74194N 
SN74195N 
SN74196N 
SN74197N 
SN74198N 
SN74199N 
SM74221N 
SN74251N 
SN74273N 
SN74279N 
SN74283N 
SN74284N 
SN74285N 
SN74290N 
SN74298N 
SN74365N 
SN74366N 
SN74367N 
SN74368N 
SN74390N 
SN74393N 
SN74490N 


CD4000 
CD4001 
CD4002 
CD4006 
CD4007 
CD4008 
CD4009 
C04O1O 
CD401 1 
CD4012 
CD4013 
CD40U 
CD4015 
CD4016 
CD4017 
CD40I8 
CD4019 
CD4020 
CD4021 
CD4022 
CD4023 
CD4024 
CD4025 
CD4027 
CD4028 
CD4029 
CD4030 
CD4031 
CD4032 
CD4034 
CD4035 
CD4037 
CD4040 
CD404T 
CD4042 
CD4043 
CD4044 
CD4046 
CD4047 
CD4048 
CD4049 
CD4050 
CD405 1 
CD4052 
CD4053 
CD4055 
CD4056 
CD4059 
CD4060 
CD4066 
CD4069 
CO4070 
CD407  1 
CD4072 
CD4073 
CD4075 
CD4076 
CD4077 
CD4078 
CD408I 
C04082 
CD4085 
CD4089 


325 
2  15 
3.25 


3.95 
2.95 
995 


CD4093 

CD4094 

CD4098 

C04099 

MC 14408 

MC 14409 

MCI 44 10 

MC14412 

MC14415 

WC14419 

CD4501 

CD4502 

CD4503 

CD450S 

CD4506 

C04507 

C04508 

CD4510 

CD451 1 

CD4512 

CD4515 

CD4516 

CD4518 

CD4520 

CD4S55 

CD4556 

CD4566 

74COO 

74C02 

74C04 

74C08 

74C10 

74C14 

74C20 

74C30 

74C32 

74C42 

74C48 

74C73 

74C74 

74C85 

74C89 

74C90 

74C93 

74C95 

74C107 

74C151 

74C154 

74C157 

74C160 

74C161 

74C163 

74C164 

74C173 

74C1 74 

74C175 

74C192 

74C193 

74C195 

74C922 

74C923 

MM80C95 

MM80C97 


CMOS 


2.25 
12.95 
12  95 
12  95 
12.95 
8.95 
4.96 


2.49 
3.50 
2.10 
239 
2.30 
2.39 
239 
2.59 
2.75 
2.75 
2  39 
2.39 
2.39 
7.95 
6.95 


74LS00 


74LSOON 
74LS01N 
74LS02N 
74LS03N 
74LS04N 
74LS05N 
74LS08N 
74LS09N 
74LS10N 
74LS11N 
74LS12N 
74LS13N 
74LS14N 
74L315N 
74LS20N 
74LS21N 
74LS22N 
74LS26N 
74LS27N 
74LS28N 
74L330N 
74LS32N 
74LS37N 
74LS38N 
74LS40N 
74LS42N 
74LS47N 
74LS48N 
74LS51N 
74LS54N 
74LS55N 
74LS73N 
74LS74N 
74LS75N 
74LS76N 
74LS78N 
74LS83AN 
74LS85N 
74LS86N 
74LS90N 
74LS92N 
74LS93N 
74LS95N 
74LS96N 
74LS107N 
74LS109N 
74LS112N 
74LS113N 
74LS114N 
74LS122N 
74LS123N 
74LS124N 
74LS125N 
74LS126N 
74LS132N 
74LS136N 
74LS138N 
74LS'39N 
74LS145N 
74LS148N 
74LS151N 
74LS153N 
74LS154N 
74LS155N 
74LS156N 
74LS157N 
74LS158N 
74LS160N 
74LS161N 
74LS162N 
74LS163N 


74LS164N 
74LS165N 
74LS166N 
74LS168N 
74LS169N 
74LS170N 
74L5173N 
74LS174N 
74LS175N 
74LS181N 
74LS190N 
74LS191N 
74LS192N 
74LS193N 
74LS194N 
74LS195N 
74LS196N 
74LS197N 
74LS221N 
74LS240N 
74LS241N 
74LS242N 
74LS243N 
74LS244N 
74LS245N 
74LS247N 
74LS248N 
74LS249N 
74LS251N 
74LS253N 
74LS257N 
74LS258N 
74LS259N 
74LS260N 
74LS261N 
74LS266N 
74LS273N 
74LS275N 
74LS279N 
74LS283N 
74LS290N 
74LS293N 
74LS295N 
74LS298N 
74LS324N 
74LS347N 
74LS348N 
74LS352N 
74LS353N 
74LS363N 
74LS365N 
74LS366N 
74LS367N 
74LS368N 
74LS373N 
74LS374N 
74LS375N 
74LS377N 
74LS385N 
74LS386N 
74LS390N 
74LS393N 
74LS395N 
74LS399N 
74LS424N 
74LS668N 
74LS670N 
S1LS95N 
81LS96N 
8 1  LS97N 
81LS98N 


LINEAR 


595 


295 


325 


78H05 
78M06 
78M.G. 
LM105H 
LM108AH 
LM300H 
LM301CN/H 
LM304H 
LM305H 
LM306H 

LM307CN/H  ,29 

LM308CN/H  .98 

LM309K  149 

LM310CN  1.25 
LM311D/CN/H    98 

LM312H  175 

LM317T  2.75 

LM318CN7H  1.49 

LM319N/H  125 

LM320K-XX-  1,49 

LM320T-XX"  1,25 

LM320H-XX-  1.25 

LM323K  495 

LM324N  125 

LM339N  95 

LM340K-XX-  1 .49 

LM340T-XX-  1.25 

LM340H-XX"  1 .25 

LM344H  1.95 

LM34BN  1.85 

LM358CN  .98 

LM360N  1.49 

LM372N  1 .95 

LM376N  375 

LM377N  3  75 

LM380CN/N  1.25 

LM381N  179 

LM383T  1.95 

LM386N  149 

LM387N  149 

LM390N  1 .95 

NE531V/T  3  75 

NE555V  39 

NE556N  98 
NE561T            19.95 

NE562B  7.95 

NE565N/H  1.25 

NE566H/V  175 

NE567V/H  1  50 

NE592N  2.75 

LM702H  2,99 

LM709N/H  29 

LM710N/H  .98 

LM711N/H  .39 

LM715N  1.95 

LW723N/H  .75 

LM733N/H  98 

LM739N  115 

LM741CN/H  33 
LM741CN-14        19 

LM747N/H  79 

LM748N/H  .39 

LM760CN  2  95 

LM1310N  1.90 


LM1458CN/N 

MC1488N 

MC1489N 

LM1496N 

LM1556N 

LM1800N 

LM1B20N 

LM1850N 

LM1889N 

LM2111N 

LM2900N 

LM2901N 

LM2917N 

CA3013T 

CA3018T 

CA3021T 

CA3023T 

CA3035T 

CA3039T 

CA3046T 

LM3053N 

CA3059N 

CA3060N 

CA3062N 

LM3065N 

CA3080N 

CA3081N 

CA3082N 

CA3083N 

CA3086N 

CA3089N 

CA3096N 

CA3097N 

CA3 1 30T 

CA3140T 

CA3146N 

CA3160T 

CA3190N 

CA3401N 

MC3423N 

MC3460N 

SG3524N 

CA3600N 

LM3900N 

LM3905N 

LM3909N 

RC4131N 

RC4136N 

RC4151N 

RC41 94 

RC4 1 95 

ULN2001 

ULN2003 

SN75450N 

SN75451N 

SN75452N 

SN75453N 

SN75454N 

SN75491 N 

SN75492N 

SN75493N 

SN75494N 


RETAIL  STORES  OPEN  MON-SAT 
STORE         1310  "B"  E.  Edinger       STORE         674  El  Camino  Real 

#1  Santa  Ana,  CA  92705  #2  Tustin,  CA  92680 

Showrooms,  Retail,  Warehouse  Specializing  in  Systems 


ADVANCED 

COMPUTER 
PRODUCTS 


With  Apple  Intelligent  Interface 

Card.      Reg.  $595.00 

Interface  Card  Has 

All  Software  For  NOW  only 

Hi-Reg.  Graphics  A_  ..     ~  — 

&  Pascal  Use.  $549.00 


BECKMAIM 

Digital  Multimeters 

,    MODUS   TE<H    *,*,   AND  TECH   MO 


1 

% 


Choice  of  Models  -  The  1ECH  310  nas  all  abow 

features.  7  functions,  29  ranges,  plus  0  75%  Vdc 

accuracy 

The  TECH  300  has  a  0  5%  Vac  accuracy  and  all 


TECH  300  Digital  Multimeter 
TECH  310  Digdal  Multimeter 
VC-201  Vinyl  Carrying  Case 
DC- 202  Deluxe  Carrying.  Case 
HV-21 1  High  Voltage  Probe. 

HP-221  RP  Probe 

Ct-231  AC  Current  Clamp 
DL-241  DeluieTest  Lead  Kit 
TL-242  Spare  Test  Leads 


SH"  MUSIC  MACHINE  9s 

mm    WITH  9  VOICES! 

•  NEWUSeSlattStSlatedttieArtLSITechnoWgy  •  Bequras 
only  ore  slot  tar  9  voces  •  uses  three  AW  8910s  to  produce 
nne  voces  •  Plays  fuse  generated  Uy  DieALFeoairj  •  ALF 
software rewrefl    •  APPLE™  HcomcatWe 


$129.95 


FLOPPY  DISK  DRIVES 


MPI  B5l-5*i'".  40  tracks 
Shugart  SA400-51."  35  tracks 
Shugan  S00/801R  8" 
Siemens  Shugart  Comoalibie 

FDD- 120-80 
PERSCI  Model  27?  Du.il 
WANGO/SIEMENS  5»"  Dr^ve 
MPI  B52  5"V  Dual 
WANGO/SIEMENS  282  Dual 
WANGO/SIEMENS  82 


279.00 
295.00 
475.00 

429.00 
'  195.00 
290  00 
348.00 
395.00 
290.00 


B5BC0NTINENTAL  SPECIALTIES 

MtM  LM-3  40-channel  Logic  Monitor        585.00 
M«IK  LM-1  Logic  Monitor  .      .60.00 

Model  LM-Z  Logic  Monitor 147.00 

MU-IQD  100  MHz  Portable  Frequency  Counter 

149.00 

MOM  LP-1  Digital  Logic  Probe  5000 

MtM  LP-2  Economy  Logic  Probe  28.00 

M»M  LP-3  High  Speed  Logic  Probe  77.00 

MtM  LPK-t  Logic  Probe  Kit.  .    21  95 

Moeei  LTC-1 ,  LTC-2  Logical  Analysis  Kits     220/250 


#?<"    Proto  Clips 

■**--'->  14-Pin  Clip      PC- 14 S  4.! 

*  16-Pin  Clip      PC- 16     S  4-f 

,,     ■  24-Pm  Clip      PC-24 S  9.! 

-V  40-PinClip      PC-40  .       S14( 


Proto  Boards 


1695  P9-104  54. CO 

18.00  PB-203       ..    97.00 

21  00  PB-203A....  149.00 

25.00  PB-203A-KH   129  00 


'■MJm'HJHM 


Apple  II.  1 6K 

or  Apple  II.  Plus  $990 

DISK  SYSTEM  SPECIAL 

Apple  II  Plus  w/48K  Supermod  Video  Modulator 

Disk  II  w/Controller  Integer  Based  ROM  Card. 

Reg.  $2,220.00,  ACP  Price  $  1 8 1 9.00     SAVE  $401 .00 


Hi-Speed  Serial  I/O 
Centronics  Printer  I/O 
Applesoft  II  Firmware 
Apple  Clock 
Introl  X-10  System 
Introl  X-10  Controller 
All  Music  Synthesizer 
16  Ch  Analog  input 
2  Ch  Analog  Output 
13- Key  Keypad 
Visi-CaK 


$18900      0S65  D^i-Sector 
18000      Apple  Graphics  Tablet 
900     DC  Hayes  Modem  li 


26900 
17995 
269.95 
25995 
24995 
164  95 
11995 
125  00 


'Controller 

Disk  II 

Pascal  Lang  System 
Parallel  Printer  Card 
Communications  Card 
Business  Software  Pkg 
Corvus  10  Megabyte  Drive 

4625  00 


S34900 
67500 
349  95 
55900 
459  00 
450  00 
165  00 
189  00 
625  00 


integer  RDM  C3rd 

Proto  Card 

M  &  R  Modulator 

Sanyo  Cassetie 

16K  upgrade  Ka 

Desktop  Plan 

8"  Floppy  Contioller 

Heuristics  SpeechlaD 

Rompius  + 

Supertalker 

Cashier 


SI  89  00 
2195 

2995 
54  95 
54  95 
98  00 
350  00 
17900 
16900 
27900 
25000 


NEWlCalifornia  Computer  Systems  APPLE  Clock.  Only  $1  24.95 


NEW!  Z80  Softcard  for  APPLE  CPM  2.2  &  M  BASIC  5.0  $325.00 


A  ATARI  800  &  400 

I     Personal  Computer  System 
ATARI  800  $825.00 


ATARI  400  $449.00 


ATARI  800  Includes:  Computer  Console,  BASIC  Lang,  Cartridge,  Education 
System  Master  Cartridge,  BASIC  Language  Programming  Manual,  800  Operator's 
Manual  w/Notebook,  Atari  410  Program  Recorder,  16K  RAM  Module,  Power 
Supply,  TV  Switch  Box. 

rifi»l»rin  Etantin  SntMi  CuMltt  rmrmi  Sterling  2i  00 

Disc  Olive  59900       US  History  3S00       Basic  Electricity  3500 

Printer  49900        US  Gavernmenl  3500       E3s>c  Algetta  3500 

Prooram  ReconW  6900       Supervrswy  SfcHS  3500       Ink  (m  i«  Ptt(rM  LiihUii 

WorU  History  IWesterni 


Erjucation  System  Master  Cartnooe 
Atari  BASIC 
AsserrCler  DeOug 


Counseling  Procedures 
Prmcioles  ol  Accointng 

Great  Classics  (Enjiisd) 
Business  Commu'riKatniiis 
Basic  Psychology 
Etleclwe  Wnlmg 

Ptwicio*s  ol  Economics 


3500 
35  00 
35  00 
3500 
35  00 

35  00 
3500 
3500 


Driving  ControHer  Pair 

Paddle  Conwier  Pair 

Jovslick  CantraHer  Pair 


Texas  Instruments 
99/4  PERSONAL  COMPUTER 


Superior  Color,  Music,  Sound  and  Graphics  -  and  a 
Powerful  Extended  Basic  -  All  Built  ' 
Tl  99/4  Console  only 
available  (or  $659,00 


$1099.00 


Cz.  commodore 

—  $775.00 


PET      AS 

^"  ■         LOW  AS 
DISCOUNT  PRICES 


2001 -8K 
200t-16KN      .. 
?001-l6KB(reg) 


775  00  3023  S0-Cr>  Plain  Paper  Pnnte.  69500 

97500  2040  Dual  Mm  Disk  Orrve  125000 

97500  Pet  to  IEEE  CatHe  .3995 

1250.00  IEEE  lolEEE  Cacrt           .    .  4995 

125000  C?N  Emetnai  Cassette  Deck  .     9500 
79500 


SINGLE  BOARD  COMPUTER  SELECTION  GUIDE 


■OMO  MDCrSJOU  ACf  PRICE 
KIM-1                       6502  16900 

SYM-1  6502  239.00 

Cromemco  ZBO  409.00 


ERCL01UIE 
A(M2995 
A0(13995 


■DADO 

SC-SBC10Q 
AIM  65 
Cosmac  Vip 


PRDCE»0H      »Cf  PRICE  EHCLDSUHE 

ZBO  23900  N/A 

6502  375  00  Add  49.95 


Order  now  in  time 
for  Christmas 


THE 
BONE  FONE 


A 


Ctt 

|4     ^fr 


•  SKIERS 

•  JOGGERS 

•  SKATERS 

•  CYCLERS 
You  must  hear 
it  are)  feel  it 
to  believe  it! 

AM/FM  stereo 
surrounds  and 
fills  your  body 
with  sound. 
No  earplugs 
You  wear  itj 

$g595 


naniaaoaziii 


TTEgnSHJIiEB 


sis 

SPEAK  S   SPEAK  &   SPEAK  a 
SPELL     MATH     READ 

$59.95     $75.95    $82.95 

Teus  Instruments'  remarkaoie  new  lamily  ol  talking  learning 

axis  Eacti  is  based  on  time-proven  learning  techniques  that  help 

Children  reaclr  genump  learning  objectives.  And  their  Built-in 

games  and  activities  make  learning  turf 

■■MM*  wMu  hi  IpMk  «  S.»i 

Vowtf  Power.  Super  Stumpers  4.  5.  6  and  7  B.  Mighly  Verbs. 


isS159£ 


CIDCCdY  RADIO  CONTROLLED 
IIICrUA   OFF-ROAD  VEHICLE 


QUARTZ  LCD  WATCH 

WITH  SNOOZE  ALARM 

The  looks  and  functions  of  the 
expensive  models  at  an 
affordable  price. 

NEW! 

6  FUNCTIONS 

•  HOURS  •  MONTH 

•  MINUTES      •  DATE 

•  SECONDS     •  DAY 


An  Outstanding  ACP  Value 
ONLV  $21 .95 


For  rough  roads,  smooth  roads,  high 
cha»«s,  It  handles  "em  all. 

Tough  and  ready  tor  any  challenge,  ttirs  crosscountry,  all-terrain 
R/C  achan-wagon  comes  (trough  like  a  champ,  (tough  roads, 
bandies 'em  alt  Dgnai  proponirjiai  steenng  makes  easy  handling 
in  forward,  reverse.  ngW.  ana  W1  Bims  -  and  hw  speeds.  Takes 
one  9-volt  battery  lor  the  transmitter  6  "C"  batteries  and  one 


SPECIFf  RED  OR  SILVER 


$49.95 


INTRODUCING  THE 

CALCULIGHTER 


LUXURIOUS 

BUTANE 

LIGHTER 

8  DIGIT  FOUR 

FUNCTION 

CALCULATOR 

An  exquisite  gift  item  tor  any  occasion.  Different, 
unique  A  beautifully  designed  and  functional 
accessory  Three  designer  metal  finishes'. 

gold,  silver,  or  black, 

"SUGG.  RET.  ACP  PRICE 

GOLD  95.00  $69.96 

SILVER  85.00  $59.95 

BLACK  85.00  $59.95 


P.O.  Box  17329      Irvine,  Calif.  92713 

Direct  Order  Lines:  (714)  558-8813 

(800)  854-8230  or  (800)  854-8241 


FOR  INTERNATIONAL  ORDERS. 
1401  E.  Borchard  (714)9530604 
SantaAna,CA92705   TWX: 91 0-595-1565 


422        BYTE  November  1980 


Circle  378  on  inquiry  card. 


T  P=^COMPUTER 


FIRST  TQ  OFFER  PRIME  PRODUCTS  TO  THE  HOBBYIST  AT  FAIR  PRICES! 

1 .  Proven  Quality  Factory  tested  products  only. 

2.  Guaranteed  Satisfaction 

3.  Over  $1 ,000,000.00  Inventory 

1980  CATALOG  NOW  AVAILABLE. 

Send  $2.00  for  your  copy  of  the  most  complete  catalog  of  computer  products. 
A  must  for  the  serious  computer  user. 


STATICX  /RAM  BOARDS 


v  *Stt 


•  S-100  32K  (uses  2 1 1  4) 

ASSEMBLED  Kit  1'/>' 

450ns       499.00  450ns       469.00 

250ns       539.00  250ns       499.00 

Bare  Board   49.95 
Bare  Board  w/all  parts  less  mem    99.95 


•  S-100  1SK  (S-100  Compatible) 

•  WOW! 

•  Assembled  &  Tested  c 

2  MHz  $250.00 

4  MHz  S265.00 

•  LOGOS  I BK 

ASSEMBLED 


sm 


450  ns       149.95     KIT  450ns       125  95 
250ns         169.95  250ns        149  95 

Vector  Graphic  8K  Kit  $139.95 
Bare  PC  Board  w/Data   S21.95 


The  vista  v-ao         TRS80  ADD-ON 

Disk  Drive  System 

SALE 

$299.00 


THE  VISTA  V-200  FOR  EXIDY 

Pnce  Sorting  as  low  as  J1 199.00 


V3O0E-33      600        2  Dm*       35  it»      154900     ' 

DouoleHew 
W00E30       MO         30rrve         33IM       153400     J 


H| 


ATTENTION  VIDEO  HOBBYISTS!!! 

*  BOX  BUILDERS 

*  USE  AS  REMOTE  TUNER/TIMER 

*  FULL  SCHEMATICS  AVAILABLE 

*  FOR  ONLY  $5.90!  -  FREE  W/PURCHASE 

NEW,  UNUSED  COMPONENTS 

Fram  The  RCA  HDT-Z01  Mwcistttte  Rtcsritr 

1   UHFrVHF  Tuner  Subassembly  with  all  knobs 

find  Video  0  emodulalor  $98.93 

3  RF  Modulator  wuh  Audio  S  Video  inputs 

Channel  3  or  4  OtilDul  S3S.95 

3  Digital  C-0C»  Module  AM/PM  Fluorescein 

Readout  (Gieeni  S10.95 

■1   300  Otim  to  75  Onm  Matctunc  __      ■    2.4ft 

Or  Subtotal  "f1 2  3. 34 
5  Comr»eie  Set  of  All  Hip  Above 

to  Or»y  $74.95 

Please  Call  For  Volume  Discounts 


RAM  BOARDS  SPECIAL 

18K  Allan  Mlts  Dynamic  RAM  Boards 
Assam    A  Tasted  $1 1 9  95  Untested  S9S  00 


16K 


^> 


LOW  COST  FLOPPY 
DISK  SUBSYSTEM 

Siemens  FDD  1  20-8  |2)  VISTA  Floppy  Control- 
ler IS- 1001.  Case,  Power  Supply  &  Cable.  CP/M 
Dish  Operating  System  Assembled  &  Tested 
Walnut  Wood  Sides  S14M.0O 

•check  ou*  Fiorrr  disk  micks  oh  thii  rut* 
SAVE  $30000       IS1 799 00  VALufcl 


WATANABE  MIPLOT 


IMS  STATIC  RAM  BOARDS 

250  ns.  450  ns. 

8K  Sialic  $209.00  $189.00 

16K  Static  $449.00  $399.00 

32K  Static  $729.00  $629.00 


CENTRONICS  PRINTER 

Model  737 

•  Centronics  complete  printer 

•  The  737  has  everything.  Check 
and  compare  the  features, 

•  New  low  price  $835. OO 


-V.?  SD  SYSTEMS  BOARDS 

S*w  TAKE  10%  OFF!   kit 


SBC  100  SmQla  Board  Computet 
SBC  200  Single  Board  Computer 
Z80  Slarler  System 
VDB  8024  Video  Display  Board 

Ercpando  PftOM 

SOI  00  Computer  System  w/64K 

SD200  Comrjuler  Syslem  w/64K 


ASSEM 
:)  S26500  $  349-00 
399  00 
44900 
45900 
429.00 
22500 
6995.00 
7995.00 


9601 
9602 
9603 


9611 

9613 

9616 

9617 

9620 

9622 

9627 

9629 

9629A 

9630 

9640 

9650 

9655 

96103 

96702 


16  Slot  Mother  Board 
Card  Cage 
8  Slot  Mother  Board 
Power  Supply 
DC  Input  Power  Supply 
UHltty  Proto  Board 
Arith   Proc/Memory  Module 
Buttered  Utility  Proto  Board 
32K  EPROM/RAM  Module 
EPROM  Programming  Head 
16  Channel  Parallel  I/O  Module 
Senal-Parallel  I/O  Module 
16K  Static  RAM  Module  170ns 
32K  Static  RAM  450ns 
32K  Static  RAM  200ns 
Card  Eilender 

Multiple  Programmable  Timer 
8  Channel  Dupie>  Senal  I/O  Mod 
Intelligent  Tape  Controller 
32/32  I/O  Module 
Contact  Closure  Module 
UNPOPULATED  BOARDS  tAlso  /Wai'aOi 


175  00 

75.00 
100  00 
27500 
32500 

39.00 
495  00 

49  00 
250  00 
250  00 
295.00 
325.00 
395  00 
695  00 
895  OO 

68.00 
395  00 
395  00 
550  00 
275  00 
350.00 


APPLE/EXIDY/EXPANDO 


■■,;K*:HMriiTITi'rM  I  ■  htf 

$49.95  TRS-80/APPLE  $49.95 

MEMORY  EXPANSION  KITS, 

4116's,  16K  (200/250  ns.) 

8  pes  for  $49.95 

w/i instructions  &  jumpers 
Call  For  Volume  Pricing 

*  Special:  TRS80  Schematic $  4.95 

*  Expansion  Interface  Schematic  ..$  4.95 

*  Expansion  Interface  Connector. . .       7.95 


^XPATJoORA^^EMOR^rT^ 

*  Bank  Selectable   *  Uses  41 16  200  ns. 

*  Write  Protect    _*#  Power  8VDC,  ±16VDC 

*  Phantom    N^cES  *  Up  to  4  MHz 
Expando  64  Kit  (4116)  Assem.  S  Tested  Add  $50. 

16K  $269.00  48K   $435.00 

32K   $349.00  64K    $505.00 


<\ 


SOROC 

TERMINALS 

SALE 

10  120....$    695.00 
IQ140...        995.00 


UV  "Eprom' 


Eraser 

Model  UVs-1 1  E  $69.95 

Holds  4  Eprom's  at  a  time 

Backed  by  45  years 

experience 

Model  S-52T. ..  $265.00 

rial  Model 


EMAKO-20.. 

UNBELIEVABLE!! 

125  Caps,  60  lorn- Vertical 
Formal  Unit  ■  96  Chaiac- 
lera  ■  Upper/Lower  Case  - 
4,5"  to  95"  AdjuslaPle 
-  80  col/40  col  double 
width  -  Full  96  char.  ASCII 


I.  $777.00  $599.00 


EMAKO-22 $799.00 


Prints  a  132  online  AvabtXe  * 


VISTA  PRINTER    32 

25  CPS,  Full  Character 

Daisy  Wheel,  136  Column 

Model 

No.  FP1500    $1995.00 


BASE  II  PRINTER 


•  72.80,96.  120 


WITH  ALL  OPTIONS 

Option  "M"  Terminal  Screen  B 
Option  "S"  High  Speed  Paper 
Option  -T"  Tractor  Feed 


REG.  $699.00 

$599.00 

fer  (1920  Char).     ...     $5000 
3vance&  Graphics,  50  00 

,.   .  5000 


Z-80/Z-80A/8080  CPU  BOARD 

*  On  board  2706     *  2708  included  (4S0ni.) 
Power  on  jump     *  Completely  socketed. 

-ndTested $185.00 

,.   ., $129.95 

PC  Board $  3^95 

For  AMHi  Speed  Add  S15.00 

8080AKit $   99.95 

BOBOA  Assembled S1  49.95 

S-100  MOTHERBOARD  SPECIAL 

8  slot  expandable  w/9  conn. 

reg  $69.95 NOW  $52.95 


SIEMEN'S  FLOPPY 

•  n,;Diiw!  wiin  [ituihse-Oensity 
e  90  Day  Warranty 

*  CHECK  OUR  FLOPPY  DISK  PRICING! 
ON  THIS  PAGE 


ACOUSTIC  MODEM 


D'  CAT  MODEM  AVAILABLE  SOON 

CALL  FOR  PRICE 


0M5.I2CX. 

Itfmfe  12',  High  Resell 
??  UHiOEMMcdel 
•  M3000-340 


Zemin  13'  Color  Morula 
WGA  13"  Color  TV 

VAMP  '9'  Color  Monitor 
VAMP  15"  Color  Monitor 


499.00 

.■,4900 
57500 


DATA  BOOKS  •  COMPUTER  BOOKS 


1980  ICMastei 
INTEL  Dala  Book 
INTEL  MCS  85  Mam 


S080A  Programming 

6800  Programming 

Z80  Programming 

Vol.  II  Some  Real  Microprocessors  w/Binder 
Some  Real  Support  Devices  w/Binder. 


oMici 


.30*0  27  50 
,/WWft  18.50 
,.3MQ.  18  50 


SALE  •  SVBEX  COMPUTER  BOOKS  •  SALE 


i  &  Business  Computing 
)  F-orn  Chips  to  Systems 
Interfacing  Techniques 


Programming  lh<-  /(((KM! 
PitigrammirKi  the  6502  .. 
(5502  Aoplrcalions  Book 


MICROPROCESSORS 


zeo 

280A     

F-81.3850)    . 
2650  . . 
CD1802 
8080A 
6O80A-4MHZ 
SALE  8085  . . 


$189.00 
. ..  1 49.00 
....10.75 


2903  4-bit  SupersI 
TMS  9900JL 
CP1600  ......... 

6502 


IM6100 

8800 

6800B  2.0  MHz 

6802P  

8035 

8755  ..      ... 

8748      

6809    . 
8086 


2995 
49.95 
39  95 


49,95 
69  95 
37.95 
6995 


ADVANCED  SUPPORT 

AM951 1  Arith,  Processor     .  .175.00 

9512  Arith  Processor 175.00 

9513  Univ.  Timing 79.95 

AM95 1  7  DMA  Controller 18.95 

AM951 9  Universal  Interrupt .      18.95 

Z-80  SUPPORT  CHIPS 

Z8Q-PIO  2.5  MHi  .    .8  75 

Z80A-PIO  4.0  MHz 12.95 

Z80-CTC  2  9  MH7  8  75 

Z80A-CTC  40MHi  12.95 

Z80-OMA  2  5  MHz  29  95 

Z80A-DMA  4  0  MHz  36  95 

Z80-SIO/0  2  5  Mmi  .     35  95 

ZaOASIO/O  4t)  MHZ  39.40 

Z80-SIO/1  2  5  MHz  35  95 

Z80A-SIO/1  40MH|  3940 

Z80-SIO/2  2  5  MHz  35  95 

Z80-SIO/2  4  0  MHz  39  40 

8080/8085  SUPPORT 

8155/8156  I/O  24  95 

8755  I/O  wilt,  fcprom  64  95 

8202  Dyn.  Ram  Cont  34  95 

8205/74S  138  Decoder  3.95 

8212  8  oil  l/o     -  2  75 

8214  Pnorltylnt  5  25 

8216  BusDrrver  2  75 

8224  Oock  Gen  2  95 

8224-4  |4MHj,  9  75 

8226  Bus  Driver  3  95 

8T26  Bus  Driver  2  95 

8228  Sys  Control 
8238  Sys  Com 
8251  Prog.  I  O 
8253  Int   Time- 
8255  Prog.  I  O 
8257  Prog.  DMA 
8259  Prog.  Im 
B275  CRT  Cowione* 
8279  Prog   Keyboard     .    . 


STATIC  RAMS 

21L02  450ns   fe.p\£-* 
21L02  250ns.  [^02 

,  1  30 

1  25 

99 

)  1  y- 
3.75 

1  55 
3.65 

1  15 
355 

21 1 2-1 

ym 

2  85 

265 

2.9( 

2  70 

2114L-250ns   140451 

KSf 

5.9E 

2114L-450nm.  (4045I 

5  5( 

5.25 

475 

4044  250  ns. 

H9n 

750 

6  90 

4044  450ns. 

MCi 

595 

4.75 

EMM4200A 

9.75 

8.75 

EMM4402 

r"M 

7  25 

6.25 

74589 

2.9S 

225 

5101C-E 

TIM 

7  95 

7  25 

AMDS  140/41 

IIIIC 

1025 

9  25 

AMD9 130/31 

ia.« 

10  25 

1101 

I9*i 

1.75 

1  25 

P2125/93425|45ns| 

9.95 

835 

8  25 

6508  1 H 

.  1  CMOS 

rw 

795 

725 

6518  IK 

x  1  CMOS 

7.9S 

7  95 

7.25 

74SI89  64  bilRam 

3.9b 

3.25 

250 

2147  Lr* 

v  Power  4K  Stan 

19.95    18.9E 

16  95 

DYNAMIC  RAMS 

8  75 

Set  of  8 

I16's  . 

49  95 

4050  4K 

x1  {1BP.ni 

4  95 

4027  4» 

x  1  (16  Piil 

4  95 

5261 

!  95     64K 

1103 

1  95 

5270   .. 

<»5    RAMS 

5605 

7  95 

■..".HI 

.245$1 59.95 

SOCKETS 

■  Pins 

Lo-Pro  Solde 

|w, 

e  Wrap 

3  Uval 

Gold 

Ab 

19 

.36 

59 

20 

38 

.62 

24 

20 

29 

.69 
79 

99 

24 

38 

85 

1  20 

43 

1.10 

1  49 

36 

58 

1.25 

1  69 

40        | 

60 

1  40 

1  89 

ZERO  INSERTION  FORCE 

16  Pin   S5.50        24Pm    S 

M.I 

40P-I, 

$10  25 

FLOPPY  DISK  I/O 

1771-01  8"  S  Mmiftopoy  24  9! 

uPd  l,V  Nee  Floppy..  49.9! 

1781   Dual  Floppy 299! 

1791-01  Dual  Floppy  .  369! 

uPd  765  Floppy  49  9! 

A/D  CONVERTERS 

6700  8  bit  Binary         ..  13.K 

8701   10  Oil  Binary.  22  0( 

8703  8  bit  TS       13.5( 

9400  Volt  to  Freq   Conv  7  21 

8751.1  ..!';  Digit  BCD 13.9! 

1408L66blt 3.9( 

t408LB8bit  5  9E 

DACOI  D  to  A     .     . . .  5.9S 

DAC08 9.9i 

TV  CHIPS/SOUND 


AV38500-1  6  Games  B/W 
AV385 15  Color  Converter 
AV38603-!  Roadrace  Game . 
AY38605-1  Warfare  Game 
AY38606-1  Wipeoul  Game 
AV38607I  Shooting  Gallery 
AY3S910  Sound  Generator 
SN76477  Tl  Sound  Generator 
MM5320/21  TV  Synch  Gen 


LM1889  RF  Modulator 3  95 

MM57100  NSC  Color  TV  ....     6.95 

MM87104  Clock  Gen 3.75 

RF  Modulator  w/Audlo  .     8  95 

M8R  Modulator 29.95 

WAVEFORM  GEN. 

8038  Function  Gen 3.95 

MC4024VCO     2  98 

LM566VCO ..1.85 

XR2206  Function  Generator.      5  25 

SHIFT  REGISTERS 


MM5056N  Dual  256 


LED  READOUTS 


DL704  300  Red 

0L7D7  300  Red 

FN0357  357  Red 

FND501  500  Red 

IN!lf,iJ.|..500)  500  Red 

FN0507|6IO)  500  Red 

FN0508  500  Red 


Comm  CaftoOe 

Comm  Cathode 
Comm  Cathode  H 
Comm  Camode 
Comm  Anode 
Comm  Anode  i-t 


500  Green    Comm  Cathode 


2510A0ual  100 1  95 

2847  Ouad80 495 

3341   Dual  80 4  95 

3351  40i9FIFO 17.95 

3357  Quad  80 695 

9403  1 6  «  4  FIFO 24  95 

9408  lOBitSeauencer  9  95 

CTS  DIPSWITCHES 

CTS206-2  1.75  CTS206-7  175 

CTS206-4  1  75  CTS206-8  1  95 

CTS206-5  I  75  CTS206-9  1  95 

CTS206-6  1.75  CTS206-10  1.95 

CONNECTORS  (GOLO) 

DB25PIRS232I.  3  25 

DB2SS  Female 3  75 

Hood 1  26 

Set  w/Hood,  Sale $750 

22/44  WAV.  S/T,  KIM 2  95 

43/66  WAV.  S/T,  MOT 6.60 

50/100  S- 100  Connector  wAiv  .   .4.95 
50/100  S-100  Connector  s/t         395 


39  95 

49.95 

5.95 

..5.95 

10.95 


68O0  SUPPORT  CHIPS 

6810  128x8Ram 4.75 

6820  PIA.... 5.95 

6821  PIA 6.50 

6829  Priority  tri 9.95 

6834-1  512»8  Eprom    .    .   ..16.96 
6845/HD46505  CRT  Com 

6847  Color  CRT 

6850  ACIA 

6852  Serial  Adapter 

6860  Modem 

8862  Modulator 

6871 A  I.OMHzOSC 

6870 

6880  Bus  Driver  ........... 


SHIFT  REGISTER  SALE 

2503V..  .1.49  2525  .1.49 
2504V. ...1.49  2527  ...1.49 
2507V  ...1.49  2528  1  49 
2517V..,. 1.49  2529  .1  49 
2524V..   1.49     2533....  1.49 


0502  SUPPORT  CHIPS 

6520  PIA  7  50 

6522  Mull  11.95 


2732 

2718-5V 
H716-5V,  12V. 
2758-5V        .. 
5203AQ 
5204AO    ..     . 
IM  5610      .      . . 
SALE  8223  32  * 


S12k8(T5) 
32x8 


..74.95 
14.95 

29  95 
29.95 


3.90 
-.2  95 

16.95 


82S11 
82S12 
82S126  256  < 

825129  256  x  4  (TS) 4.90 

825130  512  .4  |OC)  .6.50 
82S23 6.95 

825131     1495 

82S137  14.95 

NOTE:  WE  PROGRAM  PROMS 

CHARACTER  GEN. 

2513-001  (5V)  Upper 9  50 

J  5  i  -'I  ■i'»5  15V)  Lower 10.95 

25 1 3-ADM3  15V)  Lower      ....  14.95 

MCM6571 .      11.75 

MCM6571A 11  75 

MCM6574 14.50 

MCM6575 14.50 

UARTS/BAUD  RATE 

TR1602B15V.  12V)  3  95 

AY51013I5V,  12VI  4  95 

AV5i014A/1612l5-i4v"i  6  95 

AY510t5A/ia63l5VI  6  95 

TMS  60U  15V.  12V)  5.50. 

IM6402  7.95 

IM6403  8.95 

2350  USRT  995 

i671BAslros  24  95 

SALE  TR 1  4726 ft.»5 


4702  1 4  95 

WD  1 94 1  9  95 

COM5016 16.95 

KEYBOARD  ENCODERS 

AY5-2376 .13.75 

AY5-36O0 13.75 

HD0165 995 

74C922 9.95 

74C923     9.95 


FND550           500  Orange  Comm  Cathode                      149 
FNDBC3IB00!   800  Red        Comm  Cathode                        175 
FNOSOMBIOl   800  Red        Comm  Anode                            175 
HP506?-7340   600  Red       4  i  7  Heiidecimal                20  95 
HP5O82-7300    600  Red        4  i  7  Sfll  Digit  RHO               1895 
HP50B2-7731    .300  Red        Comm  Anode                              75 
T1L305             -        Red        Artay  5*7                               7  95 
T1L308              270  Red        Numerical  Display                    10  95 
TIL309              270  Red        Numerical  Dcsciay                     995 
TIL311             270  Red      4  »  7  Hewdecmal                 10  95 
MAN2A             320  Red        Array                                        595 
MANiOA           270  Red        Alpha  Numeric                          895 
MN3061           300  Red        Comm  Anode  FlqM  DP              1 25 
XAN3062          300  Red        Comm  Anode  Lefl  DP               1  ?5 
XAN3063          300  Red        Overtlow.  C A  Left  OP                1 25 
KAN3064         300  Red       Comm  Camode  Right  DP         I  ?5 
JCAN3051           300  Green     Comm  Anode  Right  DP              199 
HAN3052         30D  Green    Comm  Anode  Left  OP              1 99 
XAN3053          300  Green     themow  CA  Lett  OP                 1 99 
XAN3054          300  Green     Comm  Cathode.  Right  DP          1  99 
XAN3081           300  Yellow    Comm  Anode  Right  OP            210 
KAN3B82          300   Veflow    Comm  Anode  Lett  DP              210 
XAN30B3          300  Yelkn*    Ovedlow  CA  Lett  DP                 210 
XAN30B4         300  Yellow    Comm  Cathode  Right  DP        210 

NAKED  PC 

2-80  CPU  (Ithaca)                  »34  95 

8060A  CPU 34.95 

8K  Sialic  RAM  (Logos)           24.95 
1 6K  Stalic  RAM  (2114)       . .  29  95 
32K  Static  RAM  (21 14)           29.95 
8KEprom(2708>.                    24.95 
1702  Eprom  Board                  300C 
2708/2716  Eprom  llthaca)      34  9S 
2708/2716Eprom(vVMCl      3000 

Realtime  Clock 34.95 

ACP  Prolo  8d.  (3M  Conn.) . . .  27.95 

Ver  ten  HrtOO  Proto 22.20 

Vt'Ctnr  HH(1.'J   11  slot  M8...    29.95 
ACP  Extender  w/Conn            18.95 
Video  Interface  (SSM)           31-95 
Parallel  Interlace  (SSM)        31.95 
13  Slot  MolherBoard  (WMC)  32  95 
9SW!MotberBoardfWMC)    .    2995 
SStotMolherlexpandable)        34.95 
Proc-Tech  Bare  Boards.   . . .  CALL 
WMC  Floppy  PCB     .      .      .    34.95 

IC  SPECIAL  PURCHASE 

COMPUTER  SPECIALS 

LF  13508  JFITT  Analog  Multi  8  bit                  8  95 
ICM  7045  Precision  SlopWatcr.                    23  95 
ICM  7205  CMOS  LED  Stopwatch/Timer      19  95 
ICM  7207  Oscillfllor  Controller        .                 7.50 
ICM  7208  Seven  Decade  Counter               18  95 

ICM  7209  Clock  Generator 6.95 

ICL  7107  3V,  Digit  A/D  (LED)     ,    14.95 

MCI  4433P  3',  Digit  A/D  Converter       .      13.95 
ICL  8211  Voltage  Reference                         1.95 

LM  1820N  AM  Radio                  3/1.00 

LM  1850N  Ground  Fault  IC      3/100 

LM  2900N  Quad  Amplifier                            2/1.00 
LM  2901N  (HM)  Quad  Comparator            2/100 
LM  2917N  Fred   to  Volt  Conv    ..           .     2/1.99 

AY-33550  4*.  digit  DMM      24.95 

AY -5-3507  40MHz  DVM    .      9.95 

MEM  4963  M.:-.l.'1  l.mii.f  Dprpotoi          .     11.95 
27S08  32  *8Prom(IM  56O0|                          2  95 
Gl  1  5M  6  channel  Moslet  ,..'....                   1  49 
ULM  2O03A  7  channel  Drrver ;....                    .99 

21 01 AL-4  1 .95 

MCM  14505  64  bit  Static  Ram                        6  95 

7520/25        50         LM  377                   1  25 

1488/1489        2/199          LM  387       .        .    1,25 
MK,5Q14Calc   3/1  99          LM  3302  . . . ,   3/1.99 

74S89      3/1  99        LM  4558    .     .3/1  99 

78H05K 695         RC4136.   .     2/1.99 

LM323K                4  95          RC4131            2/199 
MC1372                895         COM  5027         39  95 
MM529B-4A/B.   2  95         COM  5037         49  95 

^SCOUHl* 

O*5*^                      LIST     SALE 

Apple  II  Plus  W/1BK     1195     990. 
PET2O01-16N                 995.   895 
Eddy  Sorcerer  W/16K               1099 
Cromemco  Sys  III        6990  6290 
Horizon  1  w/32K                      CALL 
Pascal  Mn-roengine      19951595. 
IPSI  1620  Diablo  RO   3295.2695 
Anade*  DP  8000            995.    875, 
CenlroniCSMicroS-1      595.    525. 
Soroc  IO  1  20                    995     795 
Teletype  Model  43        1349.1 1  50. 
HiPir.r  Piutter                  1065    899 
MiPlot  Digitizer                 795     735 
Intertube  It                        395     784. 
Atari  800                            999     750 
Atari  400                            549     449 
TI99/4                             11501025. 
Leedei  12"  Monitor        149.    139. 
Centronics     737             995     899. 
TrencomT-100                375.    349 
Trencom  T-200                595.    525 
Sanyo  9"  Monitor            220.    169 
Sanyo  15"  Monitor         295     249 
Mol  22  MHz  Monitor      296    219 

VERBATIM 
DISKETTES 

1 0O     CERTIFIED  ERROR-FREE! 

•  35  Htm  DDUILf  DENSITY  IINttE-lllEt  W 

SOCKET  SPECIALS 

14  PinwAv-2L              .....     $35 

18  P,nw/w-2l       55 

20  Pm  w/w-2L 75 

52501          Soft  Sectored  IRS  BO.  elc                              S27  25 
525-10          tOHoleHardNS  Apple,  etc                             2725 
525-16          16  Hole  Hard  Miciooolis                                  2725 

22  Pin  s/l 15 

Call  tor  volume  pricing 

•   *(T]  TRACK  BQUIIE  DEHSITt  -  SINGLE  SIDED 

y.   W/KUI  REtHFOICEMENT  KING 
577 -01  Sott  Sectored  IPS  flO  etc 


-  ■  •.  .   ■'. 


577-16  16  Hole  Hard  MicropOtiS 

•  40  TRACKS   OGUliE  SIDED  OOUIIE  DENSITY  S1. 
550-01  Soft  Sectored  SA  450  MR  52 
550-10  10  Hole  Hard.  HAST   IrVANGCO 
550-16  16  He*  Hard  Micro' 

•  I    IOQSCERTIFIEIIISKETTEJ 
FDBOO  01      Soil  Smc#  Densitv  3740 
(DBOO  32      12  Hard  Single  Density  Snug 


VOLUME  DEALER  PRICING  AVAILABLE 
WE  ALSO  STOCK  DYSAN-CALL 


TERMS:  Use  check,  M/C.  VISA. 
AMEX,  CB,  or  COD  COD  requires 
25%  deposit  Charge  Orders  please 

U  S  Funds  Order  by  phone,  mail  or 
TWX  MINIMUM  $10.00.  Please  in- 
duce- mnqarme  'Hue  and  phone  no. 
SHIPPING  U  SA.  add  S2.00  for  first 
d  30«  for  addi- 


I.  Fori 


i  70«  tl 


ii  lbs  FOREIGN:  Add  10%  ship- 
and  handling  COD's  $  1 .85  e»tra. 
responsible  lor  typos  Some 
5  subiect  10  prior  sale   We  re- 


RETAI L  STORES  OPEN  MON-SAT 
1310  "B"  E.  Edinger       STORE         674  El  Camino  Real 
Santa  Ana,  CA  92705  #2  Tustin,  CA  92680 

rehouse  Specializing  in  Systems 


wmmmmamim 

Circle  378  on  inquiry  card. 


P.O.  Box  17329      Irvine,  Calif.  92713 

Direct  Order  Lines:  (714)  558-8813 

(800)  854-8230  or  (800)  854-8241 


FOR  INTERNATIONAL  ORDERS: 

1401   E    Borchard    {714)9530604 
Santa  Ana.  CA92705    TWX:  91 0-595-1565 


BYTE  November  1980 


423 


CaI.Forn.a  DiqiTAl 

Post  Office  Box  3097  B    •    Torrance,  California    90503 


Introducing  the 

ANACDM  150 

DOT  MATRIX  PRINTER 

Mfg.  suggested  list  S13S0 
California  Digital     Introductory  Price 


Full  136  Characters 
for  the  price  of  80 


printer  features  a  ballistic 
ranieed  for  three  million 
6)  integrated  circuits  add  to 
the  reliability  of  the  printer. 

Microprocessor  controlled  logic  seeking  bi-directional 
head  allows  the  An  acorn  to  print  up  to  speeds  of  150 
characters  per  second.      136  columns  wide. 


r  you   are   in  the  market   for   a   "Quality  Engineered" 
lot  matrix  printer,    please  consider  the  Aa.ae.om   150 
icfore  purchasing  a  less  reliable  machine. 

Wailable  either  RS-232  serial  9600  baud.  PRA-15CS 
c  parallel  PRA-15HP.     Field  exchange. 
K  weight  40  pounds. 


=======  3101 

=   =  =====       DISPLAY 

=  =■=7  =     TERMINAL 


This  modularly  constructed  CRT  terminal  has  been 
engineered  with  the  user  in  mind.  The  video  display 
modules  swivels  and  tilts  to  provide  the  operator  with 
a  comfortable  viewing  posture. 


Standard  B0  by  24  Line  screen  formal  with  a  25th  line 
to  display  machine  status  and  aid  in  the  diagnostics 
in  the  event  of  a  system  malfunction. 

B7  key  Selectric  style  keyboard  arrangement   along 
with  numeric   entry  pad.     Eight  user  definable  func- 


IBM  direct  price  <1295 

CALIFORNIA  DIGITAL 

discount  price 

SI  IOC     Immediate 

1199     delivery 


But  moat  of  ail,  buili  Into  every  3101  terminal  la  the 
quality  that  you  have  learned  to  expect  from  the  IBM 
Corporation.         VDT-3101 


H..i 


"""''■'■"••hi  pi; 
-  ■  ■■    . 


Sti 


JEC  V-300 

»Word  Processing 

Daisy  Wheel  Printer 

*1595 


Finally  a  reasonably  priced  letter  quality  printer. .  .  Bi-directional  printing  a 
25  characters  per  second.  Full  136  print  positions  wide.  Proportional  spacii 
1/120"  horizontal,   1/48"  vertical. 

Uses  standard  Diablo  brand  inter ehai.gable  daisy  print  wheels. 
Intel  8085  CPU   microprocessor  controlled.     Interfaces  via  Centronics  par  all  • 
Shipping  58  lbs.      PKV-300. 


NEC  Spin  writer 
V! 


The  word  processing  quatllv  Spinwriter  prims  at  speeds  upio  55  char- 
acters per  second.  The  Model  5510  P/S  is  supplied  with  both  parallel 
and  RS-232  serial  Interfacing  Also  Included  is  the  tractor  feed  meeh 
antes.,   along  with  print  thimble   >nd  ribbon.  PRJN-5518PS     70  lbs. 

Keyboard  (KSR)  Model  5520  P/S   available  (86 96.    PRN-5520  PS  75  lbs. 


P-300 


PRIIMTRONIX 

$4500 

Forty-four  separate  print  heads  shuttle  to 
provide  overlapping  dots.  This  unique  fea- 
ture allows  a  resolution  of  60  dots  per  inch 
horizontal  and  72  vertical. 
The  Printronix  P-300  has  the  capability  of 
outputing  pictures,  bar  codes  and  large  la- 
bels, a  feature  not  provided  with  band  or 
chain  printers.     PRP  -300      200  lbs. 


*1395 

PRX9500 


DP-9500 


TI-BIO 

$1495 

List  $1895 

Save  $400 


CEnTRonics 


730 
737 


$595 
$795 


Both  the  Centronics  730  and  the  737  are  capable  of  accepting 
standard  office  letterhead  or  pin  feed  continuous  forms. 
For  higher  resolution  the  737  implements  a  nine  wire  dot 
matrix  print  head.      Parallel  interfacing.   Add  $65  for 
RS232.     PRC-730P    <S>.     PRC-737P   (S)    17  lbs. 


AMPEX 

DIALOGUE  80 
CRT  TERMINAL 

$995 


New  from  the  Ampex  Corporation.     The  Dialogue  80  features  removable  keyboard, 
displayable  two  pages  (four  optional)  dual  program  keys,   half  intensity  protected 
fields  and  status  line.     Transmits  data  either  til ock,   line  or  character  mode. 
Excellent  value.     VDT-D80        shipping   47  lbs. 

Applied  Digital  Data  Systems  Inc. 

ENT    25  $850 

cter  by  24  line  twelve  inch 

18  key  numeric-entry  cluster. 

video.     Displavable  control 
rs.        VDT-R25      ship.   60  lbs. 


REGENT    30  S950 

onal  features.     Special   function 

High  resolution  graphics.    25th 

line.     Multi-intensity  screen. 

quality  keyboard.   VUT-R30 

REGENT    40  $1195 

:/ delete  line  feature.    Eleven 

al  graphic  symbols.      VDT  -R40 

REGENT     60  $1495 

jlay.     Block  mode  trans- 
otected  fields.     VDT-R60 


HEWLETT    PACKARD 

$2650 

The  Hewlett  Packard  HP-85  is  a  com- 
plete,  low  cost  portable  computer 
system.     This  self  contained  package 
includes  CPU.   keyboard,  printer, 

i;i,l'  iiisplav  jfiii  cijsst'iLi.'  tape  drive. 
SYS-HP85      30  lbs. 


HP 


■:>: 


ATARI 

800    '747 
400    >695 


L0B0 

Disk  Drives 

The  package  includes  a  dur- 
able steel  enclosure.  Power 
One  brand  disk  power  supply, 
muffin  exhaust  fan  and  all  the 
necessary  harnessing  cables. 
The  Lobo  package  with: 
One  Shugart  SA801R  disk  drive.  .  .  $795 
TwoShugart  SA801R  disk  drives. 31183 


VISA 


All  merchandise  sold 
Shipping:  First  five  pc 
Foreign  orders  10%  si 
California  residents  at 
Open  accounts  extende 
tions  and  companies  w 
Warehouse:  15608  Ingl 


pounds  $2.00; 


S-100  BOARDS 

Assembled  •  Tested  •  Burned-in 


MEASUREMENT    SYSTEMS 
Dynamic  memory  DMB-8400  $770 

Dynamic  memory  DMB-3200  700 

GODBOUT/COMPUPRO 
Dual  8088/8085  16  bit  CPU  375 

Z-80  CPU  24  bit  address  4  MHz        239 
Static  RAM  32K   (Alpha  Micro)  575 

Spectrum  color  graphics  board  329 

Interfacer  II    I/O  board  199 

SEATTLE  COMPUTER  PRODUCTS 
8086  16  bit  CPU   2  card  set  /86  dos  595 
CALIFORNIA  COMPUTER  SYSTEMS 
S-100  Mainframe  2200A  329 

Disk  controller/  2.  2  CPM  2422  329 

Z-80  CPU   4  MHz  DMA    2810A  250 

DIGITAL  RESEARCH 
32K    2716   EPROM  board  99 

EPROMS  for  above  2716    16  req.    13 
CALIFORNIA  DATA  CORPORATION 
A/D  board  16  channel   12  bits 
QT    COMPUTER  SYSTEMS 
Real  time  clock/ calendar  135 


MORROW  /  THINKER  TOYS 

-Multiboard  "NEW"  Daisy  wheel  port. 

real  time  clock,   power  on  jump, 

program  interrupt  confl   3P/3S       $275   | 

Swilchboard  interface  4P/2S  '. 

Disk  Jockey  I  disk  controller  J 

Disk  Jockey  II  double  density  '. 

SD  SALES 

PROM-100  programmer  ! 

Video  display  board  8024 

Versafloppy  3740  controller  ! 

MULLEN  PRODUCTS 

Extender  board/Logic  probe  (kit) 

Relay  Opto/control  board 

D.  C.   HAYES  PRODUCTS 

Micromodem    S-100    FCC  register  375   | 

ARTEC  ELECTRONICS 

Wire  Wrap  proto  board  WW/ 100 

General  Purpose  proto  GP/100 

CALIFORNIA  DIGITAL 

80H6  CPU    4K  on  board  static  RAM  4 


S-100  Mother  Board  $35 


Quiet 
Buss 


COMPUTER     lg£ 


CALIFORNIA  COMPUTER  SYSTEMS 
Arithmetic  Processor  7811    B/C         $319 
Asynchronous  serial  interface  7710    129 
Centronics  Interface  card    7728  95 

12K  PROM   Module  7114  69 

Calender/Clock,   Bat.  back-up   7424      99 
Parallel  Interface  7720A  96 

Programable  Timer   7740A  99 

Analog/Digital  converter  7470A  99 

MICROSOFT  PRODUCTS 
Apple  to  Z-80  CPU  card  379 

D.  C.   HAYES  PRODUCTS 
Micromodem  for  Apple  319 

COMPUTER  STOP  PRODUCTS 
Double  Vision  /  80  Column  Video  250 

INTERACTIVE  STRUCTURES 
16  Channel   A/D  card  AIO/2 


MOUNTAIN  COMPUTER  PRODUCTS 
Intro  X-10  system  for  HSR  $23t 

Intro  X-10  card  only  16! 

16  channel  AD/DA    8  bit  311 

Apple  Clock    battery  back-up  221 

Supertalker  SD200  24! 

ROM  Plus  with  filter  16; 

ROM  Writer/ Programmer  1  U 

APPLE  BRAND  PRODUCTS 
Apple  Language  card  45C 

Floppy  disk  with  controller  56t 

Floppy  disk  without  controller  4fl£ 

Apple  parallel  Interface  17; 

SSM  MICROCOMPUTER 
Dual  serial  parallel  interface  AIO    149  | 
SOKltENTO  VALLKY   ASSOCIATES 


'  floppy  c 


■olU-r  (Pai 


:al) 


direct  connect 

MODEM 

UniversaI  DataIOJ 

Connects  directly  to  the  new  modular  phone 
jack.  Fully  powered  from  your  existing 
telephone  line.  No  need  to  locate  external 
AC  power.  Crystal  control  prevents  fre- 
quency drift.  Direct  connect  feature  elim- 
inates loss  of  information  due  to  carbon 
compression  that  is  associated  with  acous- 


$169. 


TOLL  FREE  ORDER  LINE 

800421-5041 

TECHNICAL  &  CALIFORNIA 

213)679-9001 


CAlifoRNiA  DiqiTAl 

Post  Office  Box  3097  B    •    Torrance,  California    90503 


MEW 

from 
INTEGRAL  DATA 


Paper  Tiger 


****   All  the  features  of  the  440  and  more  **** 
The  460  uses  a  dot  matrix  character  formation  technique  in  which 
the  placement  of  the  dots  overlap  both  horizontally  and  vertically 
to   achieve  a  correspondence-quality  printing. 

The  printer's  nine-wire  print  head  uses  staggered  needle   rows  to 
create  the  vertically  overlapping  dots.     The  head  is  driven  bi- 
directionally  under  microprocessor  control  by  a  stepper  motor 
driven  mechanism  with  logic-seeking  look  ahead  capability. 
Standard  "  Two-K  Byte  "  buffer  allows  the  printer  to  accept  the 
entire  content  of  a  1 ,920-character  CRT  screen.     Weight  27  lbs. 

suggested  list  price  $1,295.     Calif.   Digital  price    J1  A7C 


S  100  POWER  SUPPLY  . 

Mfg.  for  California  Digital  by  $SQ 


S>i-;sij3it*d   for  on 
board  regulation. 

■  8V. /BA,  ;  ±16V.  /2A 
>  Input  :1  IS/ 230VAC. 

t  9x5x3"  PWS-8A  Alba. 


Same  aa  above  but: 
8V.  /20A;  ±16V.4A. 
11x5x4"    PWS-20A 


WESTERN  UNION 

ENCLOSURE 


These 


ClOBU 


tured  for  Western  Union  by  Uni- 
versal Technology.     The  exact 
purpose  of  the  product  ta  still  a 
mystery  but  the  enclosure  is 
ideally  suited  for  an  S-100  mother- 
board with  shielded  power  supply. 
Removable  hood  and  plexlglas 
front  make  this  enclosure  an  at- 
tractive home  for  any  hobby  product 
New  surplus  in  factory  boxes  suppll 

22/44  edge  connectors!  DB25S 

foot  grounded  power  cord  and  more, 
Wl/2T,x8  7/BI'     Shipping  weight  8  lbi 


$24.99 


MODEL 43 


4320  KEYBOARD 

TTL AAA    $950 

RS232....AAK     1050 

Friction. .,  AAE 

103  Modem  AAB     1575 


1100  shipping 


TED 


PLASTIC  LIBRARY  CASE 

with  purchaseof  each  box  of  .... 
Memorex  mini-diskettes.  S5  value. 


boVU '24.99 

B,xe°s  *22.2? 


of  TEN        forty  track 


DISKETTES 


/UMMMMU. 

■£ «— 4 


_    DB25 

V'1 H V  ucb    10+ 

— -i  male    *2*o  jp 

:S?°\  female  3*5  30S 

hood-2p  1"     »« 

Cantronlc    6.93 


'Z 


■B 


BCD^sw!1,^"'!?^ 


Ten  Position 
Mfg.   by  Digiawitch 
1  7/8"high    1/2"  wide 


Authorized  Distributor 

Scotch' 

Data  Products 


Edge 
Connectors 


GOLD 
100  PIN 

IMSAI/ALTAIR 


Ims.i   tsMtf  .1251.250 
Immal  w/w,125cintiri 
•Italr  •oldirtill.UOro* 
SPECIALS 

22  «4  Kim  eyelet  156" 
25/50  solder  tab  .150" 
36,72  *id«  poll  w  V..156 


•  2.95  3/f  7.50 
»4.95  3/(13.00 
•5.95  3  115.00 

•  1.9S    3    15  00 

•  1.09  3/12.00 

•  1.95  3    15.00 


Lear  Seigler  Inc. 
In  Plant 

POCKET 

INTERCOM 

$14.95 


IEE  Projection  Module 


Another  one  of  our  mystery  products.     Manufactured  by  the  Lear 
Seigler  Company.     The  pocket  Intercom  it  supplied  in  a  deep  drawn 
blue  anodiied  aluminium  enclosure.     Excellent  for  those  special 
projects  which  require  a  touch  of  elegance.  LSI  list  price  SI 45. 
Supplied  with  chrome  pocket  clip.    9V  transistor  battery  required. 
Model  1105.     New  surplus,    measures  3,5x2, 75x  1.1251'    SPC-LSI 


Voltage  applied  to  one  of  the  twelve  discrete  miniature  incandescent  #328  I 
lamps  causes  the  module  to  display  the  selected  character.  (+-«thru9,. 
Users  may  substitute  the  character  film  and  display  pictures  and  sym- 
bols of  their  own  choosing,  Manufactured  by  Industrial  Electronic  engi- 
neers Inc.     SPC-L12    Used  excellent  cond.    24  lamp  modules  also  avail. 


740-0        IBM  soft  format. 
740/2       Double  side  soft 
741-0        Double  density 
743-0        Double/Double 
740-32      8"  Hard  sector 
744-(0)(10Kl6)  5  l/4"mini 
Library  case  for  any  above 
B34  A         Data  Cassette 
D  C  100     Mini  C  artridge 
D  C  300     D  ata  Cartridge 
920(  )       Disk  Cartridge 


MEMORY 

TRS-80  « 
APPLE  II 

16k  memory  (8)4116's 


Shugart  Associates 


SA800-R  Floppy 


£44950 


Installation  is  simple.     Anyone  who  has 
ever  changed  a  spark  plug  should  be  able  < 
to  up-grade  his  microcomputer. 
How  can  California  Digital  offer  these 
memory  up-grade  sets  at  25%  below  our  competition? 
Simple,    we  buy  in  volume,    wholesale  to  dealers  and 
sell  the  balance  directly  to  owners  of  personal  micro- 
systems.    These  16K   dynamic  memory  circuits  are 
factory  prime  and  unconditionally  guaranteed  for  one 
full  year.     NOW,   before  you  change  your  mind,  pick 
up  the  telephone  and  order  your  up-grade  memory 
from  California  Digital.    Add  $3  for  TRS80  jumpers. 
32-99    100-5C    -999        1K+ 


STATIC 

21L02  450nS. 
21L02  250nS. 
2114  1Kx4  450 
2114  1Kx4  300 
4044  4Kxl  450 

4044  4Kxl   250 

4045  1Kx4  450 
4045  1Kx4  250 
5257  low  pow. 


1-31 
1.  19 
1.49 
5.95 
8.  95 
5.95 
9.95 

8.  95 

9.  95 
5.95 


.99 
1.  39 
5.  50 
8.50 
5.50 
9.50 
8.  50 
9.50 
5.  50 


.95 
1.  25 
5.  25 
8.  00 
5.  25 
9.00 
8.  00 
9.00 
5.  00 


.  90 


.85 


XEROX  800 

WORD  PROCESSING 

KEYBOARD 

ASCII  ENCODED 


This  77  key  word  processing  keyboard  was 
manufactured  by  Micros  witch  Tor  use  in  the 
Xerox  800  word  processing  system. 
The  keyboard  outputs  a  seven   bit   ASCII 
code  along  with  an  eighth  bit  that  allows 
most  keys  to  shift  and  double    function  aa 
special  characters.    Extra  large  "  Tab  & 
Return  "  keys  are  desired  into  the  layout 
of  the  keyboard  to  emulate  the  IBM  Selec- 
trie.    17  illuminated  keys  serve  for  special    | 
word  processing  codes.     The  keyboard  is 
equipped  with  two  thumbwheel  switches  for 
defining  line  width. 

Original  Xerox  acquisition  over  $400.00 
California  Digital  USED  price  only  $49.  00 
Excellent  cond.     Documentation  Included. 


^V 


□ATA  INPUT 
"r",ik  TERMINAL 


quired  from  the  CMC  division  of  the  Pertet 
Corporation.      The  unit  was  originally  designed 
for  inputing  data  directly  onto  magnetic  tape- 
Trie  Hyatem  is  comprised  of  a  premium  cost  aluminium  and  fiberglass  enclosure, 
along  with  a  Honeywell/  Microswitch  hall  effect  keyboard.      Thirty  display  lamps 
advise  the  operator  of  the  systems  status.     Four  Inch  load  speaker  acknowledges 
acceptance  of  data  and  alerts  the  operator  of  pending  problems. 

But  most  of  all  this  "USED  "  terminal,    with  a  little  imagination,   can  be  engineered 
to  make  the  perfect  home  for  an  S-100  computer  and  video  display;  or  with  slight 
modification  will  accept  the  Rockwell  AIM-S5  micro/computer. 

Five  volt  regulated  power  supply  is  available  for  an  additional  $20.    (see  June  Bytel 
All  units  are  in  excellent  condition.      Original  acquisition  over  $700.     22  lbs. 


ControL  D/ua 
CRT  Terminal? 


^At  present  we  have  been  un 

:ure  any  printed  in  form  a 

ts.  If  you  have  any  doubia.  [jicii 
si  purchase  one  of  these  temii 
led  via  truck,    freight  collect. 


ShlfijJiri.t    V 


Scotc] 

Diskette 

HEAD 

Cleaning 
Kit 


$ 


Please  specify: 
8"  or  5  1/4" 


Miniature 
Switches 


your  choice 

$.98 

SPOT  Miniature  Toggles 

7101C&K        ON  NONE  ON 

7107  jbt    ON-OFF(mnt.ON)  I 

7108  CK   ON- (moment  ON)  I 
7103  CK         ON  OFF  ON 

Rotary  3P-4   PoS. 

Rotary  3P-6-Pos. 

Posh  B  (N  0 )    S  39ea  4  -'SI 


DIP  Switch 


hi?9 


KEYBOARD   *24?5 


IBM  2980 


ESS 


***  THOUSANDS  *** 

We  haVe  slashed  price  in  an  effort  to 
reduce  our  over  stocked  inventory. 
These  are  Single  Five  Volt  .Eproms, 
manufactured  by  one  of  the  Worlds 
largest  producers  of  semiconductors. 
Please  phone  for  volume  pricing. 


BANK 
TERMINAL 

*250 


The  IBM  2980  b 
-mlnai  was  on 
lusly  adjust  the  c 


was  designed 


to  be  located  at  each  tellers 
puter.     Information  entered 
at  the  computer.    A  record  of  the 
iltaneously  recorded  onto  a  contim: 


the 


i  passbook  and  s 
seated  within  the  terminal. 

he  heart  of  the  2980  is  the  IBM  Selectrlc  typewriter, 
nd  full  documentation. 
.  potential  use  for  this  I/O  terminal  is  in  business  applications  where  information  ran 
nto  ledger  cards  at  the  same  time  data  is  recorded  at  the  computer.        USED  surplus, 


init  Is  supplied  with  print  ball,   i 


The  new  BSR  timer  runs 
your  home  like  clockwork 
Turns  on  lamps  and  appli- 
ances  while  your   away 
from  home. 

Completely  compatible 
with  your  existing  sys- 
tem X-10  devices. 


BSR  Timer  $65.00 

Master  Console  34.95 

Ultrasonic  Controller  19.9 
Modules:  Appliance. 
Lamp  or  Wall  Switch  13.9 


VISA 


All    merchandise  sold  by    California  Digital  is  premium  gra 
Shipping:    First  five  pounds  $2.00;  each  additional  add  $.40 
~"  orders  10%  shipping.    Excess  will  be  refunded. 
iia  residents  add  6%  sales  tax.    COD's  discouraged 
Open  accounts  extended  to  state  supported  educational  insti 
tions  and  comnanies  with  a    "Strong  Dun  &  Bradstreet.  " 


Circle  379  on  inquiry  card. 


TOLL  FREE  ORDER  LINE 

800)421-5041 

TECHNICAL  &  CALIFORNIA 

213)679-9001 


Computers,  Disk  Systems 


SUPERBRAIN 

BvlNTERTEC 


INTERSYSTEMS 

formerly  ITHACA  AUDIO 


32K  or  64K  (Double  or  Quad  Density  units 
available).  Uses  two  Z-80  CPU's.  Commercial- 
type  terminal  with  12"  monitor.  Dual  double 
density  minifloppies.  Over  350  kilobytes  of 
storage  (twice  that  with  quad  density  drives). 
Two  serial  RS232  ports,  I/O  ports  standard. 
Expandable  with  optional  S  100  S  100  inter- 
face. Comes  with  CP/M™  2.2  operating  sys- 
tem. MiniMicroMart  includes  BASIC  inter- 
preter and  can  supply  a  wide  range  of  CP/M 
Development  and  Application  software. 

w/32K  Double  Density,  List  $2995  .  $2685 

w/64K  Double  Density,  List  $3345 $2883 

w/64K  Quad  Density,  List  $3995 $3595 

W/64K  Quad  -  MiniMicroMart 

Upgrade  Special $3395 

MICROMATION 

s 


A  64K  complete  computer  with  dual  density 
8"  floppies  (1  megabyte).  Rack  or  vertical 
mounting.  Systems  with  double-sided  drives, 
hard  disks,  and  multi-user  (MP/M). 
Z  +  100  64K  RAM, Computer,  $2495.  .  $2099 
Z+ 120  Includes  two  8"  disks,  $4995  $4199 
"Z"  system  features  new  distributed  processing 
multi-user  concept  with  one  Z  80  per  user,  with 
Z-80for  MP/M  (Master  Satellite  concept). 

AS  LOW  AS  $11,899! 


SD  SYSTEMS 

SDS-100,  W/32K  RAM,  $6995 $5945 

SDS-200,  List  $8995 $7645 


RADIO 
SHACK 
TRS-80™ 

10%  OFFL 


DPS-1,  List  $1795 

Call  for  Price! 

The  new  Series  II  CPU  Board  features  a  4  MHz 
Z-80A  CPU  and  a  full-feature  front  panel.  20- 
slot  actively  terminated  motherboard,  with  25 
amp  power  supply  (50/60  Hz  operation,  incl. 
68  cfm  fan). 

COMPLETE  SYSTEM  with  InterSystem  64K 
RAM,  I/O  Board  w/priority  interrupt  and 
double  density  disk  controller  board.  Full  1-year 
warranty.  List  $3595  _    ,,  ,       _  .       , 

Call  for  Price! 


HEWLETT-PACKARD 

HP-85A 


MORROW 

THINKER  TOYS® 
DISCUS  M26™ 


26  megabytes  of 
formatted  storage 
List  $4,995 


$4,199 


THINKER  TOYS® 
DISK  SYSTEMS 

Now  includes  CP/M®   2.2 

Discus  2D,  List  $1199 $1019 

Discus  2D,  dual-drive,  List  $1994 $1694 

Discus  2  +  2,  Assem.,  List  $1549 $1319 

Dual  Discus  2  +  2,  Assem.,  $2748 $2335 

All  Morrow  systems  now  include  CP/M®    2.2 

Circle  380  on  Inquiry  card. 


NORTH  STAR  MDS-A 
Double  Density  Mini 
Floppy  Disk  System 

Double  Density,  Kit 

List  $799       OUR  PRICE  $669 

Assembled  and  Tested $719 

Quad  Version,  Kit,  List $836 

Assembled,  List  $1099 $896 

Above  MDS-A  units  do  not  include  cabinet  or 

power  supply. 

Shipping  and  Insurance:  Add  $7.50. 


NEW!  CR0MIX 
FROM  CR0MEMC0 

A  New  UNIX  Like 
Disk  Operating  System, 

With  true  multi-user, 

multi-tasking  capabilities 

List  $295    OUR  PRICE  $249 

NEW!  DOUBLE  DENSITY 
CONTROLLER  BOARD 

FROM  CROMEMCO 

With  built-in  diagnostics 
16  FDC  Controller.  List  $595  OUR  PRICE  $505 


NEW!  CROMEMCO 
SYSTEM  ZERO 

List  $995 OUR  PRICE  $849 

NEW!  CROMEMCO  SYSTEM  ZERO/D 

A   complete  64K   Computer  with   Double 
Density  Disk  Controller    List  $2995 

OUR  PRICES2545 

Companion  Disk  drive  for  above  — 

Quad  Density  —  Total  of  780  Kilobytes  of 

storage  on  the  two  drives List  $1295 

OUR  PRICE  $1099 

Only  $3644  for  a  complete  64K  Disk  System 

MORROW 

Discus  2D's 
IN  STOCK 


Terminals  and  Printers/ 


TELEVIDEO  TVI-912C 


SOROC 


TI-810 


Upper  and  lower  case,  15  baud  rates:  75  to 
19,000  baud,  dual  intensity,  24  x  80  character 
display,  12  x  10  resolution.  Numeric  pad.  Pro- 
grammable reversfole  video,  auxiliary  port, 
self-test  mode,  protect  mode,  block  mode, 
tabbing,  addressable  cursor.  Microprocessor 
controlled,  programmable  underline,  line  and 
character  insert/delete.  "C"  version  features 
typewriter-style  keyboard.  List  $950 

OUR  PRICE  $789 

920C  (with  11  function  keys,  6  edit  keys  and 
2  transmission  mode  keys,  List  $1030 

ONLY  $849 

Intertec 

EMULATOR 

Software  compatible  with  a  Soroc  IQ-120, 
Hazeltine  1500,  ADM-3A  or  DEC  VT-52.  Fea- 
tures block  mode  transmission  and  printer  port; 
12"  anti-glare  screen;  18-key  numeric  keypad; 
full  cursor  control.  List  $895 

_______  OUR  PRICE     $749 


NEW  INTERTUBE  III 

List  $995     ONLY      $749 

12"  display,  24  x  80  format,  18-key  numeric 
keypad,  128  upper/lower  case  ASCII  charac- 
ters. Reverse  video,  blinking,  complete  cursor 
addressing  and  control.  Special  user-defined 
control  function  keys,  protected  and  unpro- 
tected fields.  Line  insert/delete  and  character 
insert/delete  editing,  eleven  special  line  draw- 
ing symbols. 


IQ-120 

List  $995 

SPECIAL 

$729 


IQ-140  List  $1495 
SPECIAL  $1149 


HAZELTINE 


1410  w/numeric  keypad,  List  $900 $749 

1420  w/lower  case  and  numeric  pad 849 

1510,  List  $1395 1089 

1520,  List  $1650 1389 


NEC  SPIIMWRITER 


TM 


Terminal/Keyboard  as  well  as 

RO  Printer  Only  models  available. 

CALL  FOR  PRICES! 


TI-810  Basic  Unit,  $1895  .    ONLY  $1695 
TI-810  w/full  ASCII  (Lower  case),  vertical 

forms  control,  and  compressed  print  .  $1895 
TI-745  Complete  printing  terminal 
with  acoustic  coupler.  List  $1695 $1399 

PAPER  TIGER" 

•    f 


CENTRONICS 

PRINTERS 

NEW  730,  parallel,  friction,  tractor  .  .  .  $679 

NEW  737  parallel,  friction,  tractor  ....  $849 
779-2  w/tractor  (same  as  TRS-80  Line 


IDS-440  Paper  Tiger,  List  $995  $895 
w/graphics  option,  incl.  buffer,  $1194  .  .  $989 
TRS-80  cable 45 

NEW  IDS  PAPERTIGER  460List  $1295  .  $1149 
NEW  IDS  PAPERTIGER  460G  List  $1394   SI  199 

NEW  IDS  460 

QUALITY  PRINTING  AT  MATRIX 

SPEED-LOGIC  SEEKING 

PROPORTIONAL  SPACING 

w/auto  text  justification 

RNRD6X 

DP9500/DP9501  PRINT6RS 

DP-9500,  List  $1650   $1399 

DP-9501,  List  $1650  $1399 

OKI  DATA 
Microline80 

Tractor  Feed  Option  . 
Serial  interface 

AXIOM  IMP  I 


ONLY  $649 

$99 

$89 

$699 

COMPRINT  912  w/parallel  interf.    $559 
912  w/serial  interface,  List  $699 $589 

MICROTEK,  List  $750 $675 

ANADEX  80-Col.  Dot  Matrix $849 

Above  prices  reflect  a  2%  cash  discount  (order  prepaid  prior  to  shipment).  Add  2%  to  prices  for  credit 
card  orders,  C.O.D.'s,  etc.  Prices  are  f.o.b.  shipping  point.  Prices  are  subject  to  change  and  offers 
subject  to  withdrawal  without  notice.  WRITE  FOR  FREE  CATALOG. 


Printer  I),  List  $1350 1049 

702  120  cps,  bi-direct.,  tractor,  VFU 1995 

703  185  cps,  bi-direct.,  tractor,  VFU 2395 

704  RS232  serial  version  of  703,  $2350  . .  $1995 


MiniMicroMart,  Inc. 

1618  James  Street,  Syracuse  NY  13203  (315)  422-4467  TWX  710-541  0431 


Circle  381  on  inquiry  card. 


If  North  Star  or  Cromemco  offer  it . 

WE  HAVE  IT!! 

Immediate  Delivery  at  Discount  Prices 


NORTH  STAR 
Horizon    2 

32K  Double  Density 

Assembled  and  Tested 
List  $3095 

ONLY  $261 9 

ASSEMBLED 


HORIZON  1,  DD $2279 


32K,  QD,  List  $2995 2539 


HORIZON  2,  32K,  DD  .  $2619 

32K,  QD,  List  $3595 3049 

48K,  DD,  List  $3590 3039 


48K,  QD,  List  $4090 3469 

64K,  DD,  List  $3830 3239 

64K,  QD,  List  $4330 3669 


NORTH  STAR  APPLICATIONS  SOFTWARE 

(Exclusive  for  use  with  North  Star  Disk  Systems  —  specify  Double 
or  Quad  Density) 

NORTHWORD,  List  $399 $339 

MAILMANAGER,  List  $299 249 

INFOMANAGER,  List  $499 419 

GENERALLEDGER,  List  $999 799 

ACCOUNTSRECEIVABLE,  List  $599 499 

ACCOUNTSPAYABLE,  List  $599 499 

NORTH  STAR  HARD  DISK  HD-18 

18  megabytes,  plugs  into  parallel  port  of  North  Star 
Horizon.  Utilizes  tried-and-proven  14"  Century  Data 
Marksman.  List  $4999.  QUR  pR|CE  $419g 

NORTH  STAR  MDS-A  -  Double  (or  Quad) 
Density  Disk  System,  Kit,  List  $799  .  OUR  PRICE  $669 
Assembled  and  Tested,  List  $899    SPECIAL  $719 

NORTH  STAR  MEMORY  BOARDS 

16K  Dynamic  RAM  (RAM-16-A/A),  Assembled,  List  $499 $420 

Kit,  List  $449 SPECIAL  $299 

32K  (RAM-32/A),  Assembled,  List  $739 $620 

Kit,  List  $669 ONLY  $499 


INTRODUCTORY  SPECIALS  ON  ... 

PREMIUM  QUALITY  BASF  DISKS 
CERTIFIED  FOR  QUAD  SYSTEMS 

5V."  DOUBLE  DENSITY  DOUBLE  SIDED  l.si$57.50 
8"  DOUBLE  DENSITY  DOUBLE  SIDED    L.st$75.00    . 
Shipping  J?  50  —  Free  Shipping  In  Multiple  Of  Two  Box  » 


(Box  of  ten) 

..    $36.95 
..    $47.49 


flrV  System  3 

by  CROMEMCO 

Now  with  Dual 

Double  Sided 

Double  Density 

(oj/er  2  megabytes 

of  Storage) 

64K  of  RAM 

List  $7395 


LIMITED  TIME 
INTRODUCTORY  SPECIAL 


$6199! 


CROMEMCO  SYSTEM  2  —  Now  double  Density 
with  Double  Sided  Drives,  Quad  Capacity  mini 
floppy  disc  drives.  List  $3990    Only  S3390 


CROMEMCO  Z-2H 


Full  11 -megabyte  Hard  Disk 
system.  FastZ-80A 
4  MHz  processor, 
two  floppy  disk 
drives,  64K  RAM 
memory,  RS232 
special  interface, 
printer  interface, 
and  extensive 
software  available. 
List  $9995 

our  price  $8489 


NEW  DOUBLE  DENSITY  CONTROLLER  BOARD 
From  Cromemco 

With  built-in  diagnostics  —  16  FDC  Controller 
List  $595    OUR  PRICE  $505 

Z-2  COMPUTER  SYSTEM  List  $995    $845 

SINGLE  CARD  COMPUTER  -  SCC-W  4  MHz.  List  $450    $382 

NEW  COLOR  GRAPHICS  INTERFACE  -  SOI  List  $595  OUR  PRICE  $505 
CROMEMCO  HDD  —  1 1  /22-megabyte  Hard  Disk  for  use  with  existing 
systems.  DMA  controller.  Transfer  rate  of  5.6  megabytes/second. 

HDD-11.  List  $6995    OUR  PRICE  ONLY  $5939 

HDD-22.  List  $1 1 .995    $10,189 


SHIPPING  AND  INSURANCE:    Add  $15  or  Horizons,  $2.50  for  Boards  and  Software.    Hard  Disk  Systems  and  Cromemco  systems  shipped  freight  collect. 
Advertised  prices  are  for  prepaid  orders.  Credit  card  and  C.O.D.  2%  higher.  Deposit  may  be  required  on  C.O.D.    All  prices  subject  to  change  and  offers 

subject  to  withdrawal  without  notice.  .       , 

-  WRITE  FOR  FREE  CATALOG  ^*^^ 


MiniMicroMart,  Inc. 


master  charge 


1618  James  Street,  Syracuse,  NY  13203  (315)422-4467        twx  710-541-0431 


Circle  382  on  Inquiry  card. 


Try  to  beat  our  prices! 


SUPERBRAIN    by  Intertec 


Self  contained  computer  with  duat  disks  and 
two  RS232C  ports.  Complete  with  CPM'  2.2 
and  BASIC.  60COr 

32K  Double  Density,  List  $2995  .  V^DOU 

64K  Double  Density,  List  $3345 $2883 

64K  MiniMicroMart  upgraded 
to  Quad  Density SPECIAL  $3395 

VIDEO  TERMINALS 

/VflrV EMULATOR  (Intertec),  List  $895$  749 
NEW  INTERTUBE  lllList  $895  ONLY  $  749 
SOROC  120,  List  $995  SPECIAL  $  729 

1Q140,  List  $1495 SPECIAL  $1149 

PERKIN  ELMER  550.  List  $997 $  799 

with  anti  glare  screen,  $1027 $  829 

HAZELTINE  1410,  List  $900     $  749 

1420 $  849 

1500,  List  $1225 $  879 

1510,  List  $1395 $1089 

1520,  List  $1650 $1389 

ADDS  R-20,  List  $995 $  945 

LEAR  SIEGLER  ADM3A,  Assembled       $  849 

TELEVIDEO  912C,  List  $950 $  789 

920C,  List  $1030 $  849 

PRINTERS 

ANADEX  DP-8000 $  849 

DP-9500,  List  $1650 $1399 

DP-9501.  List  $1650   $1399 

PAPER  TIGER  IDS  440,  List  $995  $  895 

w/graphics  op.,  incl.  buffer,  $1 195  ...  $  989 

NEW  IDS  PAPERTIGER  460  .    List  1295  $1149 

NEW  I0S  PAPERTIGER  460G  List  $1394    $1199 

NEC  Spinwriters Call  for  Price 

TELETYPE  43  KSR $1087 

CENTRONICS 
730  1  parallel  interface  .  .  .     NEW  LOW  $679 
737  parallel  interface  .  .  SUPER  VALUE  $349 
779  w/Tractor,  List  $1350 $1049 

702  w/Tractor,  VFU,  List  $2480 $1995 

703  w/Tractor,  VFU,  List  $2975 $2395 

704  w/Tractor,  VFU,  List  $2350 $1995 

Tl  810  Basic,  List  $1895 $1695 

810/serial  &  Centronics  style 

parallel  interface,  List  $1940 $1735 

810  w/full  ASCII  (U/LC),  Vertical 
Forms  Control,  Compressed  Print  .  .   $1895 

Tl  820  KSR,  List  $2165 $1895 

Tl  745  w/full  ASCII,  List  $1695 $1399 

COMPRINT  912  w/parallel  interface       $  559 

912  wserial  interface,  List  $699 $  589 

AXIOM  IMP  I $  699 

MICROTEK,  List  $750 $  675 

OKIDATA  Microline  80,  List  $949 649 

Tractor  Feed  Option $     99 

RS232  Serial  Interface $     8i> 


NORTH  STAR  HORIZON® 

HORIZON   1   ASSEMBLED  &  TESTED 

32K,  Double  Density,  List  $2695      ....  $2279 
32K,  Quad  Density,  List  $2995 $2539 

HORIZON  2  ASSEMBLED  &  TESTED 

32K,  Double  Density,  List  $3095 $2619 

32K,  Quad  Density,  List  $3595 $3049 

48K,  Double  Density,  List  $3590 $3039 

48K,  Quad  Density,  List  $4090 $3469 

64K,  Double  Density,  List  $3830 $3239 

64K,  Quad  Density,  List  $4330 $3669 

LIMITED  QUANTITY  OF 
HORIZON  2  KITS  AVAILABLE 

FLOPPY  DISK  SYSTEMS 

NORTH  STAR  MDS  A 
Assembled,  List  $899 SPECIAL  $  719 

Kit  Version,  List  $799 $  669 

MORROW  THINKER  TOYS*    Discus  2D, 

List  $1199 OUR  PRICE  $1019* 

Discus  2D,  dual-drive,  List  $1994 $1694* 

Discus  2 +  2,  A&T,  List  $1549 $1319* 

Dual  Discus  2  t  2,  A&T,  List  $2748  .  .  .  $2335* 
•Now  includes  CP/M"    2.2 
MICROMATION  Megabox,  DD  w/ 

8"  drives,  1 -megabyte,  List  $2295 $1949 

2-megabyte,  List  $3095 $2629 

MICROPOLIS1041  MacroFloppy- 

w /enclosure  (no  P.S.I,  List  $695 $  625 

1042  MacroFloppy  w/case  &  AC  P.S.  .  $  709 
1053  Dual  MetaFloppy'    ,  List  $1895  .  .  .  $1695 


VIDEO  BOARDS 

I/O  Mapped 
SD  COMPUTER  VDB-8024,kit,List  $370$319t 

Assembled,  List  $470 $  399 1 

XITEX  SCT-100K,  Kit ONLY  $154.95 

SCT-100A  Assembled $174.95 

SSM  VB2  I/O.  Kit,  List  $199     Call 

Assembled  &  Tested,  List  $269    Call 

Memory  Mapped 
SSM  VB1C,  16x64,  Kit,  List  $179 

Assembled  &  Tested,  List  $242 
SSM  VB3,  80-Char.,4MHz,Kit,  List  $48!     Call 

4  MHz,  AEfT,  List  $565 Call 

iNTERSYSTEMS,  16x64,  A&T,  List  $165  $149 


ESCON  CONVERSION 
FOR  IBM  SELECTRIC 

Complete  w/microprocessor  controller  and 
power  supply.    Factory  built.    User   installs 
solenoid  assembly  or  it  can  be  done  at  Escon 
factory  at  nominal  cost. 
Parallel  (TRS-80,  Sorcerer,  etc.),  $575   $514 

RS232  Standard  Serial,  List  $599 534 

IEEb-488  (for  PET),  List  $660 584 

TRS-80  Cable 25 


CALIFORNIA  COMPUTER  SYSTEMS 

280  CPU  BOARDS  List  $299    $269 

DISK  CONTROLLER  2422  List  $399      ...  $359 

32  CASE  STATIC  List  $710  S599 

64K  DYNAMIC  BOARD  List  $699  $589 


CPU  BOARDS 

(assembled  unless  noted) 
NORTH  STAR  Z80A  (ZPB-A/A),  $299  $254 
CROMEMCO  4  MHz  (ZPU  W),  List  $395  $335 

4  MHz  (SCC  W),  List  $450 $382 

INTERSYSTEMS  (formerly  Ithaca  Audio) 

new  Series  II  Z-80,  4  MHz.  List  $395  .  .  .  $349 
SSM  CB1  8080  A&T,  List  $252   

CB1A  Kit,  List  $183 

CB2  Z  80.  A&T,  List  $344     

CB2Kit,  List  $260   

DELTA  Z  80,  with  I/O $289 

SD  SBC  100,  List  $350 $298 

SBC-100  Kit,  List  $295 $250 

SBC  200,  List  $400 $332 

SBC  200  Kit,  List  $320 $272 

MEMORY  BOARDS 


32K  SD  ExpandoRAM  Kit 
only  $249T 

ONLY  $159  without  RAM  chips 


NORTH  STAR  16K  Dynamic  RAM  Board, 

A&T  (RAM-16-A/A),  List  $499 $420 

16K  Kit  Version,  List  $449  .    .  SPECIAL  $299 

32K  A&T  (RAM-32/A),  List  $739 $620 

32K  Kit,  List  $669 SPECIAL  $499 

CROMEMCO  16KZ-W,  List  $495 $419 

64KZ-W,  List  $1795 1485 

MEASUREMENT  SYSTEMS  &  CONTROLS 

(Guaranteed  performance,  incl.  labor/parts  1  yr) 
DM6400  64K  Board  w/all  64K,  $795  .  .  .  $659 

DM4800  with  48K,  List  $695 $589 

DM3200  with  32K,  List  $595 $509 

DMB6400  64K  Board  wall  64K $859 

DMB4800  with  48K $789 

MORROW  SuperRAM  -  all  static,  all  A&T 

16K,  4  MHz  or  2  MHz,  List  $349 $299 

32K,  4  MHz,  List  $699 $629 

16K  Memory  Master,  List  $399 $339 

24K  Memory  Master,  List  $549 $465 

INTERSYSTEMS  (formerly  Ithaca  Audio) 

8K  Static  2  MHz,  A&T,  List  $165 $149 

8K  Static  4  MHz,  A&T,  List  $195 $176 

16K  Static  2  MHz,  A&T,  List  $475 $427 

16K  Static  4  MHz,  A&T,  List  $495 $445 

64K  Dynamic,  List  $995 $895 

CALIFORNIA  COMPUTER 
16K  Static,  A&T,  List  $349.95 $259 

FLOPPY  DISK 
CONTROLLER  BOARDS 

NORTH  STAR,  DD, 

Assembled,  List  $499 $399 

MORROW  Disk  Jockey  1,  A&T  ($213)  .  $189 

Disk  Jockey  2D,  A&T,  List  $479 $429 

SD  Versafloppy  1 ,  Kit,  List  $250 $212  t 

Versafloppy  II,  DD  Kit,  List  $350 $297  t 

Versafloppy  II,  DD,  A&T,  List  $430 $365  t 

DELTA  double  density  A&T  ($385) $345 

CONDUCTOR,  double  density  A&T  .  .  .  $269 
INTERSYSTEMS  FDC-2,  A&T,  $495  .  .  .  $439 
MICROMATION  Doubler,  DD,  A&T  .  .  .  $399 
TARBELL  Floppy  Disk  Interface  Kit $199 

double  density,  A&T,  List  $495 $444 


NEW  CROMEMCO 

DOUBLE  DENSITY 

DISK  CONTROLLER 

List  $595               OUR  PRICE  $505 

SHIPPING  AND  INSURANCE:    Add  $2  50  for  boards,  $6  for  Seleclric  Converter  or  Floppy  Disk  Drtves,  $7.50  for  Floppy  Disk  Systems,  $15  for  Horizon    SHIPPED  FREIGHT  COLLECT:    SuperBram,  Centronics 

and  T.I.  printers   Contact  us  for  shipping  information  on  other  terminals  and  printers 

Above  prices  reflect  a  2%  cash  discount  (order  prepaid  prior  to  shipment).  Add  2%  to  prices  for  credit  card  orders,  C.O.D.'s,  etc  Prices  are  subject  to  change  and  offers  subject  to  withdrawal  without  notice 

-  WRITE  FOR  FREE  CATALOG  - 

MiniMicroMart,  Inc. 

1618  James  Street.  Syracuse  NY  13203  (315)  422  4467  TWX  710-541-0431 

Circle  383  on  Inquiry  card. 


Unclassified  Ads 


FOR  SALE:  TRS-80  Model  I  Level  2,  48  K  memory,  ex- 
pansion interface,  two  disk  drives,  Emako-20  matrix 
printer  with  Centronics  cable.  Sell  all  or  part  at  80% 
Radio  Shack  list  price.  Also  diskettes,  game  cassettes, 
etc.  Philip  Crawford,  1720  E  1st  St  #10,  Long  Beach  CA 
90802,  (213)  437-5475. 

EDUCATORS:  Small  private  school  in  central  Connec- 
ticut (K-8)  is  considering  implementation  of  microcom- 
puters into  curriculum.  If  you've  previously  experienced 
such  an  endeavor  in  this  age  group  and  would  be  willing 
to  share  an  evening  enlightening  faculty  and  concerned 
parents,  please  contact  us.  We're  eager  to  make  this  a 
successful  program,  and  would  be  interested  in  learning 
how  your  program  was  launched  and  pitfalls  to  avoid. 
The  Independent  Day  School,  Laurel  Brook  Rd,  Middle- 
field  CT  06455,  Attn:  William  Murdoch,  (203)  238-3994. 

FOR  SALE:  Voltage  regulator,  SOLA  BASIC  750  VA  Unit 
#63-13-175.  Never  used,  output  two  outlets,  6.25  A  max- 
imum. $300,  shipping  additional.  Jane  Groene,  1  Har- 
mony Ct,  Syosset  NY  11791,  (516)  921-4900. 

WANTED:  KIM-1  or  similar  microcomputer  for  dedicated 
real-time  system.  Must  be  like  KIM-1:  easily  expandable 
but  otherwise  a  bare  single-board  system.  Needed  for 
temperature  monitoring  system  in  a  solar  greenhouse. 
Robert  Heller,  Star  Route  Box  51A,  Wendell  MA  01379, 
(617)  544-6416  between  8:30  and  5. 

FOR  SALE:  Standard  Memories  Ecom  memory  system 
including  Ecom  memory  core  (32  K),  heavy-duty  power 
supply,  all  interconnecting  cables,  interface  firmware 
card,  and  documentation.  Original  cost  of  $3500  will 
sell  for  $1000.  All  in  excellent  condition,  both  main  units 
are  for  relay  rack  mounting.  Steve  Garber,  3030  Polk  St, 
San  Francisco  CA  94109,  (415)  474-7081. 


FOR  SALE:  Eaton  LRC  7000  plus  64-character  printer; 
$250.  Radio  Shack  Quick  Printer  II  32-character  (Catalog 
#26-1155);  $150.  Send  certified  check  or  money  order. 
William  R  Spencer  Jr,  5421  Grandin  Rd  Ext,  Salem  VA 
24153. 


FOR  SALE:  LSI-11  processor  (KD11-F)  mounted  in  a 
four-slot  backplane  with  a  serial  interface  (DLV11), 
paper-tape  operating-system  package  including 
PAL-11S  Assembler,  LINK-11S,  ODT,  PTSP,  and  single- 
user  BASIC,  with  full  documentation.  Entire  system 
never  used,  in  mint  condition.  Original  cost  $1325,  ask- 
ing $1000.  Also  for  sale,  Processor  Technology  VDM-1, 
$100.  M  Wallin,  1607  Lauren  Ct,  Bensalem  PA  19020. 


FOR  SALE:  Hazeltine  1500  CRT  terminal  (less  case, 
cable,  XFMR);  $450,  Anderson  Jacobson  acoustic 
coupler  #242A;  $120,  full  ASCII  keyboard;  $50.  S 
Gladstone,  150  W  Cedar  St  #6,  Norwalk  CT  06854,  (203) 
866-8930. 


WANTED:  Soft  black  leather  case  for  the  HP-45,  65,  or 
67.  New  or  used.  E  King,  870  W  181  St,  New  York  NY 
10033,(212)568-3309. 


FOR  SALE:  Ithaca  Audio  8  K,  250  ns  static 
programmable-memory  board  for  S-100  with  protect; 
$120.  Ithaca  Audio  S-100  video-display  board,  64  by 16 
uppercase  and  lowercase  with  Greek  symbols,  normal 
or  reverse  video,  1  K  on-board  programmable  memory; 
$75.  Mostek  4115N  dynamic-programmable  memories; 
eight  for  $30.  Ted  Betz,  Box  379A  RD#1,  Farmingdale  NJ 
07727,(201)938-3722. 


FOR  SALE:  DEC  LSI-11  components:  KD11-F  processor 
board  with  FIS  circuit  and  4  K  memory;  DLV11  serial  In- 
terface with  remote  data-rate  switch.  Also,  Vadic  two- 
speed  modem:  Bell  103/113  (300  bps)  and  202  (1200  bps 
half-duplex)  compatible.  Sell  both  for  half  price.  Bob 
Malahy,  Mechanical  Engineering  Dept,  Rice  University, 
Houston  TX  77001,  (713)664-8635  evenings. 


FOR  SALE:  Color  graphics  board.  Biotech  CGS-808  with 
on-board  microprocessor  control  for  S-100  bus.  Ex- 
cellent condition,  versatile,  up  to  256-by-192  resolution. 
Lots  of  software  Including  3D  graphics.  $362  postpaid. 
John  Peterson,  1820  Camlno  Or,  Forest  Grove  OR  97116, 
(503)357-6310. 


FOR  SALE:  Apple  II  computer  with  36  K  memory,  Apple- 
soft Firmware  Card,  disk  drive  with  controller,  all 
manuals,  plus  extras.  Everything  is  in  excellent  condi- 
tion. $1200  or  best  offer.  David  J  Bauman,  249  Taft  St, 
Wind  Gap  PA  18091,  (215)863-5736. 


WANTED:  S-100  system:  Z80  processor,  48  thru  64  K 
programmable  memory,  15-siot  mainframe,  5  V  at  15  A, 
±  18  V  at  1  A  power  supply,  video-display  board,  serial 
and  parallel  I/O.  Optional:  keyboard,  cassette  interface, 
and  read-only  memory  monitor.  Fred  Tydeman,  3901 
Northf  ield  Rd,  Austin  TX  78759,  (512)  255-9292  evenings. 

FOR  SALE:  New  PP  2708/16  eprom  programmer  by 
Oliver  Audio  Engineering,  factory  assembled;  $200. 
Double-sided  printed-circuit  board  plated  through  with 
schematic  for  building  small  system  using  Motorola 
MC14500  single-bit  controller;  $35  each.  Charles  Krasny, 
POB  57,  Maple  Falls  WA  98266. 


.*■*__£ 


A  New  Floppy 
Disk  System 
for  the  8080. 

Small  (4K)rbut  powerful! 


Ei  ilS    This  and  other  Byte/McGraw-Hill 

I^fil  ^    books  are  available  from  Byte 
|    Books  or  your  local  computer  store. 


ISBN  #0-07-069206-8 
Price  $20.00 


Please  send  D 


K2FDOS  A  Floppy  Disk  Operating  System  for  the  8080 


Company 


K2FDOS  is  a  complete  software  package. 
It  includes  all  the  specific  routines  nec- 
essary to  bootstrap  and  run  a  powerful 
floppy  disk  operating  system  on  an  8080 
based  microcomputer.  K2FDOS  features 
assembly  language  source  code  listings 
and  object  code  in  hexadecimal  listings 
and  machine-readable  (PAPERBYTE®  ) 
bar  code  format. 


430       November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


State/Province 


Code 


□  Check  enclosed  in  the  amount  of  $_ 

□  Bill  Visa  □  Bill  Master  Charge 

Card  No.  _________________ 


Add  75«  per  book  to  cover 
postage  and  handling. 

Please  remit  in  U.S.  funds  or  draw  on  a  U.S.  Bank 


.  Exp.  Date . 


Available  in  October 


70  Main  Street,  Peterborough,  N.H.  03458 


BITI 

BillW 


UNCLASSIFIED  POLICY:  Readers  who  are  soliciting  or  giving  advice,  or  who  have  equipment  to  buy,  sell 
or  swap  should  send  in  a  clearly  typed  notice  to  that  effect.  To  be  considered  for  publication,  an  advertisement 
must  be  clearly  noncommercial,  typed  double  spaced  on  plain  white  paper,  contain  75  words  or  less,  and  include 
complete  name  and  address  information. 

These  notices  are  free  of  charge  and  will  be  printed  one  time  only  on  a  space  available  basis.  Notices  can  be 
accepted  from  individuals  or  bona  fide  computer  users  clubs  only.  We  can  engage  in  no  correspondence  on  these 
and  your  confirmation  of  placement  is  appearance  in  an  issue  of  BYTE. 

Please  note  that  it  may  take  three  or  four  months  for  an  ad  to  appear  in  the  magazine. 


FOR  SALE:  SwTPC  6800  computer  with  12  K  memory, 
CT-64  with  Motorola  monitor,  2  serial  and  1  parallel  inter- 
face, AC-30  cassette  interface,  GT-6144  graphics 
board— all  working.  Cost  over  $1200;  sell  for  $600.  Also, 
OSI  Challenger  with  16  K,  cassette  interface,  video 
board,  extra  boards.  Cost  over  $1400;  sell  for  $700.  J 
Chirlgos,  4707  Larchmont  NE,  Albuquerque  NM  87111, 
(505)  299-0378  after  5  PM. 

FOR  SALE:  64-word  S-100  Model  50  Heuristics 
Speechlab;  $50,  Morrow  Speakeasy  S-100  1P,  1S,  and 
cassette  Interface;  $30,  OAE  paper-tape  reader;  $20.  All 
work  fine.  Micro-Term  ACT-1  terminal,  as  is;  $30.  Alex 
Begin,  7335  Deep  Run,  Birmingham  Ml  48010,  (313) 
642-7512. 

WANTED:  Three  to  six  8080  hackers  to  work  with 
machine-language  Monitor,  Editor,  and  Assembler  that  I 
have  developed.  You  will  get  free  software  In  exchange 
for  user  comments  and  suggestions.  First  letter  should 
give  programming  experience,  computer  type,  and  Input 
format  required.  Robert  G  Durnal,  POB  68,  Junior  WV 
26275. 


FOR  SALE:  Radio  Shack  16  K  Level  II TRS-80  microcom- 
puter. With  numeric  keypad,  expansion  interface, 
cassette  recorder,  and  several  game  cassettes  in- 
cluding Microchess.  List  price  is  $1200.  I  will  sell  for 
$750.  First  cashier's  check/money  order  takes  it  (I  pay 
shipping).  Include  SASE  for  confirmation.  Chris  Willson, 
8726  S  Sepulveda  Apt  91 B,  Westchester  CA  90045. 


FOR  SALE:  Xitan  Z80  system.  Mainframe,  ZPU,  SMB, 
VDB,  48  K  programmable  memory,  16  K  read-only 
memory  (12  K  BASIC  in  read-only  memory),  keyboard, 
manuals,  software.  Complete  system  $1800.  Terry 
Young,  4  Aiken  St,  Derry  NH  03038,  (603)  434-0257. 


FOR  SALE  OR  SWAP:  KSR-28  Teletype  (not  ASCII,  uses 
5-bit  code)  with  manuals.  $100  or  will  swap  for  an 
acoustic  coupler,  modem,  or  Radio  Shack  Voxbox.  R  L 
Reynolds,  30  Jordan  St,  Chelmsford  MA  01863,  (617) 
251-8505. 

NEEDED:  Information,  kit,  schematics,  or  advice  on 
turning  ITEL  word-processor  typewriter  Model  84101010 
into  computer  terminal  or  printer.  Gordon  Dohle,  414-34 
Kleisinger  Cr,  Regina  Saskatchewan,  S4R  7M4  Canada. 

FOR  SALE:  IMSAI  mainframe  with  10-slot  motherboard, 
Ithaca  Audio  Z80  processor  board  (with  2708),  SSM  VB1 
video  board,  32  K  static-programmable  memory,  and 
Soroc  117-key  professional  keyboard.  Best  offer  over 
$600.  Bob  Watson,  (602)  526-2312. 

WANTED:  Student  experimenter  wants  integrated  cir- 
cuits, transistors,  capacitors,  resistors,  LEDs,  books, 
catalogs,  magazines,  diodes,  switches,  tubes,  wire, 
printed-clrcuit  boards,  knobs,  TTL  circuits,  keyboards, 
crystals,  transformers,  and  parts-identification  book. 
Please  state  price  and  what  you  have  to  offer  in  full 
detail.  Judy  Stapleton,  POB  536,  Pine  Lake  GA  30072. 


BOMB 

BYTE  s  Ongoing  Monitor  Box 


Article  # 

1 


2 
3 


Page 
22 


32 


5 
6 


64 


90 


126 
148 


180 


8 

206 

9 

220 

10 

244 

11 

12 
13 


296 


340 


361 


Article 

The  Future  of  Computer 

Graphics 

Home  In  on  the  Range!  An 
Ultrasonic  Ranging  System 
Micrograph,  Part  1:  Developing 
an  Instruction  Set  for  a  Raster- 
Scan  Display 

Language  Control  Structures 
for  Easy  Electronic  Visualiza- 
tion 

Graphic  Color  Slides,  Part  1 
Three-Dimensional  Graphics 
for  the  Apple  II 

A  Simplified  Theory  of  Video 
Graphics,  Part  1 
Getting  to  Know  Your  Monitor 
Digital  Storage  of  Images 
Machine  Problem  Solving,  Part 
3:  The  Alpha-Beta  Procedure 
A  General  Interpolating 
Graphics  Package  for  the 
TRS-80 

An  8088  Processor  for  the 
S-100  Bus,  Part  3 
Add  Macro  Expansion  to  Your 
Microcomputer,  Part  2 


Authors) 

Brown  and 
Levine 

Ciarcia 


Booch 


DeFanti 
Grogono 

Sokol  and 
Shepard 

Watson 
Dalpiaz 
Williams 

Frey 


Cohen  and 
Crowe 

Cantrell 

Brown 


FOR  SALE:  IMSAI  8080  with  16  K  bytes,  3  P  plus  S 
Teletype  I/O  board,  Tarbell  cassette  interface,  case, 
panel,  and  22-slot  motherboard.  8  K  BASIC  and  all  stan- 
dard software.  Panasonic  cassette  unit.  Perfect  condi- 
tion. $600  plus  shipping,  or  best  offer.  Also  available: 
ASR33  teletypewriter.  Dick  Aronson,  61  Morton  St,  New 
York  NY  10014,  (212)  243-0623  home,  (212)  758*500  work. 


WANTED:  Clever  machines  and  ideas  do  not  always  ad- 
vance the  state  of  the  art,  but  they  are  fascinating!  Do 
you  have  or  know  about  any  unusual  computing  devices 
(mechanical,  electronic,  analog,  digital,  unclassiflable)? 
I  am  seeking  information  about  such  things,  historical 
or  recent,  completed  or  not — even  just  crazy,  ingenious 
ideas.  I  am  also  buying  unusual  machines,  books, 
manuals,  and  documentation,  and  am  building  models 
of  some  of  the  machines.  Dick  Rubinstein,  15  Maugus 
Ave,  Wellesley  Hills  MA  02181. 

FOR  SALE:  Radio  Shack  TRS-80  Model  I  Level  II. 
Equipped  with  36  K  programmable  memory,  10-key  pad, 
expansion  interface.  Unit  is  barely  used,  has  been  fac- 
tory serviced,  and  can  handle  additional  16  K  program- 
mable memory.  $1000.  Also,  IBM  Selectric  Model  71-3 
I/O  device  with  TRS-80  printer-port  interface.  Gives 
letter-quality  hard  copy.  $650.  Take  both  for  $1400.  Doug 
Bowie,  POB  3453,  San  Francisco  CA  91449,  (415) 
861-6883. 

FOR  SALE:  Diablo  Hytype  1  Model  1200.  Best  of  the 
daisy-wheel  printers.  Brand-new  unit  with  in-feed  fric- 
tion platen  and  print  wheel.  Interface  for  Apple,  TRS-80, 
and  CP/M  systems.  Maintenance  manual  and  additional 
interface  information  available.  Scott  Priester,  211 
White  Water  Ct,  Greer  SC  29651,  (803)  268-0678  after  6 
PM. 

FOR  SALE:  HP-41C  calculator,  card  reader,  two  memory 
modules,  and  all  manuals  for  $425.  All  components 
essentially  new.  The  system  was  replaced  by  an  HP-85 
before  all  HP-41C  components  were  received.  Ernest  W 
Graham,  POB  396,  Shaw  Island  WA  98286. 

FOR  SALE:  Fairchild  PEP  3870  development  board.  In 
circuit  emulation  of  3870  series  single-chip  microcom- 
puters. Programs  38E70  and  2716  PROM.  Never  used. 
Paid  $450;  asking  $350.  Ron  Sutherland,  POB  1147, 
Lawrence  KS  66044,  (913)  841-9433. 

FOR  SALE:  Expandor  Black  Box  printer,  80-column,  for 
connection  to  parallel  port.  Includes  cable  for  connec- 
tion to  TRS-80  and  maintenance  manual  with 
schematics.  Cost  over  $350  two  years  ago.  Needs  some 
attention,  but  otherwise  in  good  condition.  $150  in- 
cluding UPS  freight.  Gary  Taylor,  Princeton  Plasma 
Physics  Laboratory,  POB  451,  Princeton  NJ  08544,  (609) 
683-2573. 


FORTH  Is  First 

John  James'  introductory 
article  on  FORTH  won  the 
BOMB  first  place  in  our  fourth 
annual  August  language 
issue.  Steve  Ciarcia  came  in 
second  with  his  construction 
article  about  a  homemade 
modem  for  under  $50.  Kim 
Harris'  unique  article, 
"FORTH  Extensibility,"  ran  a 
close  third.  The  BOMB  cards 
for  this  month  were  unusually 
enthusiastic  in  their  rating  of 
individual  articles,  affirming 
the  overall  positive  reaction 
to  this  issue.  Several  BOMB 
cards  expressed  support  for 
the  article  on  Khachiyan's 
algorithm.  First  place  for 
August  was  1.70  standard 
deviations  above  the  mean, 
followed  by  second  place  at 
0.95.1 


J 


November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc        431 


Reader 
Service 


To  get  further  information  on  the  products  advertising  in  BYTE,  fill  out  the  reader  service  card  with  you 
name  and  address.  Then  circle  the  appropriate  numbers  for  the  advertisers  you  select  from  the  list.  Add  a 
15-cent  stamp  to  the  card,  then  drop  it  in  the  mail.  Not  only  do  you  gain  information,  but  our  advertisers  are 
encouraged  to  use  the  marketplace  provided  by  BYTE.  This  helps  us  bring  you  a  bigger  BYTE.  'Correspond 
directly  with  company. 


Inquiry  No. 


Page  No. 


332  AB  Computers  395 
262  ABM  Products  335 

72  Ackerman  Digital  118 
349  Ackerman  Digital  404 
123  AEI  201 

288  Adaptive  Data  &  Energy  Sys  380 

317  Addlson-Wesley  Pub  Co  386 

346  Addmaster  404 

378  Advanced  Comp  Prod  422,  423 

307  Alpha  Omega  Comp  Sys  384 
363  Alpha  Omega  Systems  406 

150  Am  Comp  &  Telecom  Corp  235 
387  Am  Micro  Prod  Inc  364 

144  American  Square  Comp  228 

333  Ancrona  396 

196  Anderson  Jacobson  299 

107  APF  Electronics  178,  179 

99  Apparat  Inc  163 

6  Apple  Computer  12,  13 

63  Applied  Dig  Data  Sys  103 

283  Applied  Logic  Inc  380 

217  Arizona  Comp  Systems  309 

3  Artec  Electronics  6 

311  ASAP  385 

15  Atari  Personal  Computers  27 

*  ATV  Research  382 

123  Automated  Equip  Inc  201 

*  Autometrics  380 
81  Axiom  129 

28  base  2  inc  49 

331  Becklan  394 

240  John  Bell  Engineering  323 

*  Beta  Comp  Devices  216,  388 
354  Bishop  Management  Co  Ltd  408 

*  Bit  3  Computer  Corp  327 
302  Bit  Bucket  384 

165  Bower-Stewart  &  Assoc  256 

151  Buss/Charles  Floto  236 

*  BYTE  Back  Issues  337 

*  BYTE  Books  146,  261,430 

214  BYTES  &  FLIGHTS  307 

*  BYTE  Subscriber  339 

*  BYTE  WATS  341 

265  C  &  S  Electronics  337 

249  Cado  Systems  330 

13  Calif  Comp  Systems  20,  21 

285  Calif  Data  Corp  380 

379  California  Digital  424,  425 
276  Cambridge  Develop  Labs  362 
293  CCM  Inc  382 

310  CCS  Inc  384 

87  Centronics  139 

247  CFR  Assoc  Inc  327 

141  Chrlslin  Industries  225 

111  Circle  Comp  Sales  184 

126  CI  Con  Comp  &  Comp  204,  205 

374  CompuMart  414,  415 

244  Computer  Age  Inc  325 

187  Computer  Case  Co  291 

215  Comp  Discount  of  Am  308 

*  Computer  Factory  237 

69  Comp  Furniture  &  Access  112 

75  Computer  Instant  Ads  122 

148  Computer  Marketing  Corp  233 
348  Computer  Shopper  404 

321  Computer  Specialties  387 

73  Computers  P.  Us  119 
91  Computers  R  Us  145 

105  Computers  R  Us  175 

326  Computers  R  Us  391 

301  The  Computer  Stop  383 

49  Computers  Wholesale  82 

11  Computer  Technology  Assoc  18 

328  Comp  Trans  Sys  Inc  392 

231  Computer  Warehouse  318 

362  Computer  Warehouse  406 

16  Computex  28 
279  COMPUTIME  368 

83  Compuview  Products  Inc  133 

235  Condor  Computer  Corp  320 

334  Concord  Comp  Components  396 

211  Conn  microCOMPUTER  307 

212  Conn  microCOMPUTER  307 

149  Coosol  234 
238  Coosol  321 

162  The  Cornsoft  Group  252 

31  Corvus  Systems  53 

361  The  CPU  Shop  407 

308  Creative  Mind  Businesses  384 
275  Creative  Software  359 

1  Cromemco  1,  2 

*  Cybernetics  Inc  243 
320  Cybertech  386 

255  DAR  Sales  332 

*  Data  Discount  Center  74 
178  Datadisk  Systems  278 

223  Datasouth  Computer  Corp  314 
97  Decision  Master  161 

376  Delta  Products  418,  419 

345  Des  &  Build  Info  Serv  404 

155  DG  Electronics  243 

139  Diablo  (Div  of  Xerox)  223 

250  Digiac  Corp  331 

224  Digital  Graphic  Systems  315 
154  Digital  Marketing  241 


164  Digital  Research  (CA)  255 

341  Digital  Research  Computers  401 

130  DIP  Inc  211 

199  The  Disc  Software  Group  300 

225  Dlsk/3  Mart  Inc  315 

140  Dual  Systems  Control  Corp  224 

156  Dynacomp  Inc  245 

299  Dyn  Microproc  Assoc  365 

*  Dysan  Corp  60,  61 
392  Eaton  Corp  186 
268  Ecosoft  339 

338  Electrolabs  399 

46  Electronic  Control  Tech  78 

*  Electronic  Design  Assoc  311 

295  Electronic  Music  Systems  382 
158  Electronics  Book  Club  247 
194  Electronic  Specialists  297 
390  Electronic  Systems  402,  403 

207  Electronic  Sys  Furniture  Co  304 

221  Ellis  Computing  311 

93  Epson  149 

114  Essex  Publishing  189 

42  Exatron  Inc  75 

209  Excom  305 

134  Executive  Business  Sys  215 

4  Factory  Direct  10 

343  Faragher  &  Assoc  404 

243  Farnsworth  Comp  Center  325 

306  Feith  Software  384 

322  Fordham  Radio  Supply  388 

228  Futureworld  317 

319  General  Systems  Consulting  386 

300  Gimix382 

137  Godbout  Electronics  218,  219 

274  Mark  Gordon  Computers  359 

177  GR  Electronics  LTD  278 

204  GW  Computers  303 

179  H  &  E  Computronics  279 

191  H  &  E  Computronics  294,  295 

296  Hanley  Engineering  382 
56  Hardhat  Software  92 

222  Hardslde312, 313 

167  Hayden  Book  Co  Inc  262 

84  Hayes  Microcomp  Prod  Inc  135 
95  Hazeltine  Corp  154,  155 

40  Heath  Company  71 

70  Heath  Company  113 

7  High  Technology  Inc  14 

335  Hobbyworld  Electronics  397 

53  Houston  Instruments  89 

54  Houston  Instruments  89 
367  Ibex  Comp  Corp  406 
254  IDM  332 

34  Image  Resource  Corp  57 

14  Industrial  Micro  Systems  25 

94  Industrial  Micro  Systems  151 
51  Integral  Data  Sys  87 

202  Integrand  301 

17  Intel30,  31 

85  Intel  136,  137 

133  Intelligence  Systems  214 

355  Interactive  Comp  Sys  Inc  408 

200  International  Microsystems  301 
10  Intertec  Data  Sys  17 

80  Intertec  Data  Sys  127 

*  Ithaca  Intersystems  8,  9 

358  J  &  S  Computers  408 
116  Jade  Computer  Prod  193 

372  Jade  Comp  Products  410,  411 

373  Jameco  Electronics  412,  413 

43  JDR  MICRODEVICES  INC  76 
256  Jepsan  Group  K  Inc  332 
314  Jini  Microsystems  386 

226  Joe  Computer  315 

339  JR  Inventory  Co  400 

*  KemcoLTD115 

147  Kenyon  Microsystems  232 

303  Kit  Parts  LTD  384 
32  Konan  Corp  54,  55 
90  Kurta  Corp  143 

210  Leapac  Services  305 

*  Lifbt  36,  156,  157,  162,  230,  341 

208  LNW  Research  305 
68  Lobo  Drives  Int'l  111 

219  Macrotronics  Inc  310 

304  Macrotronics  Inc  384 

359  Macrotronics  Inc  408 
127  Malibu  Electronics  207 
198  Marketline  299 

103  Marinchip  Systems  171 

163  Marot  Software  Systems  Inc  253 

189  Mark  of  the  Unicorn  293 

227  Marway  Products  Inc  316 
60  Marymac  Industries  Inc  266 

100  Maxell  Data  165 

*  McGraw-Hill  Magazines  152,  153 

*  Meas  Sys  &  Controls  29,  95 
182  Meta  Technologies  Corp  285 
213  MICAH  307 

166  MicroAce  259 

118  MicroAmerica  Distributing  194 

120  MicroAmerica  Distributing  195 

37  Micro  Age  Computer  Store  65 

101  Micro  Age  Computer  Store  169 
252  Micro  Ap  331 

168  Micro  Appl  Group  (MAG)  263 


432        November  1980  ©  BYTE  Publications  Inc 


205  Micro  Architect  303 

291  Micro  Business  World  381 

135  Micro  Computer  Brokers  217 

*  Micro  Comp  Discount  Co  188 
98  Microcomputer  Tech  Inc  163 
39  MicroOaSys69 

71  Micro  Data  Base  Sys  117 

•  Micro  Focus  109 
35  Micro  House  58 

110  Micromail  183 

104  Micro  Management  Sys  173 

96  Micro  Mikes  159 

•  The  Micro  Mint  392 

342  Micro  Processor  Sys  Inc  404 

*  Micro  Pro  International  289 

24  MICRO-SCI  41 
366  Microsette  406 

76  Microsoft  123 

146  Microsoft  (Cons  Prod  Div)  231 

272  MicroTax  Software  94 

229  MicroTech  Exports  317 

20  Microtek  Inc  37 
181  Microware  283 

77  The  Micro  Works  124 
88  Micro  World  141 

325  Mikos  390 

157  Miller  Microcomputer  Ser  246 

173  Mindex  Infosystems  272 

261  Mini  Computer  Suppliers  335 

30  Mini  Micro  Mart  52 

172  Mini  Micro  Mart  271 

380  Mini  Micro  Mart  426 

381  Mini  Micro  Mart  427 

382  Mini  Micro  Mart  428 

383  Mini  Micro  Mart  429 
266  Miro  Computers  337 

26  Morrow/Thinker  Toys  44,  45 
12  Mountain  Computer  Inc  19 
61  Mountain  Computer  Inc  100 

138  mpi  221 

33  MTI,  Inc  56 

248  MT  Microsystems  328,  329 

21  Multi  Business  Comp  Sys  38 
19  Nat  Microsoftware  Prod  Inc  35 

117  NEECO  194 

119  NEECO  195 

281  Nestar  Systems  Inc  379 

108  Netronics  181 

•  Netronics  128,  130,  132,  134 
86  NNC  Electronics  138 

245  Noesis  Computing  Co  326 

18  North  Star  33 

251  Northwest  Comp  Serv  Inc  331 

48  Novation  80 

*  NRI  Schools  209 

64  Ohio  Scientific  Instr  104,  105 

386  Ohio  Scientific  Instr  C  IV 

52  OK  Machine  &  Tool  88 

253  Oliver  Advanced  Eng  331 

188  Omikron  293 

128  Omega  Micro  Computers  208 
175  Omega  Research  274 

106  Omega  Sales  Co  177 

*  onComputing  257 

233  Optimal  Technology  319 

55  Orange  Micro  91 

66  Organic  Software  108 

171  Osborne/McGraw-Hill  269 

•  Owens  Associates  276,  277 
259  Pace  Inc  333 

297  Pacific  Exchanges  382 
316  Pacific  Exchanges  386 
352  Pacific  Exchanges  408 
329  Page  Digital  393 

159  Pan  American  Elec  248 

129  PCD  Systems  Inc  210 

273  PDF  Corp  341 

312  Pensadyne  Comp  Services  386 

8  Percom  Data  15 

78  Percom  Data  125 

79  Percom  Data  125 
309  Peripherals  Plus  384 

125  Personal  Micro  Comp  Inc  203 

25  Personal  Software  43 

*  Phase  One  Systems  251 

152  Pickles  &  Trout  238 
269  pk  systems  inc  339 

92  Power  One  Inc  147 

"  Priority  One  122 

377  Priority  One  420,  421 

230  Professional  Data  Sys  317 
50  Professional  Software  Inc  83 

22  Programma  International  39 
184  Prog  Software  Exch  291 

136  The  Purchasing  Agent  217 
289  QC  Microsystems  191 

74  QT  Comp  Systems  120,  121 

315  Quality  Computer  Parts  386 

284  Quality  Data  Supply  380 

153  Quality  Software  239 

122  Quasar  Data  Products  199 

371  Quest  409 

298  Quintrex  Inc  382 

•  R  &  B  Computer  Systems  322 
241  R  &  K  Enterprises  323 

216  Racet  Computes  309 

27  Radio  Shack  47 


132  RCA  Solid  State  213 

9  REI  Sales  Co  16 

344  RMF  Products  Inc  404 

290  rmi  380 

267  RNB  Enterprises  338 

327  Rochester  Data  392 

62  Rockwell  International  102 

197  RTR  Software  299 

220  S&  M  Systems  311 

305  S  &  S  Computing  384 

270  S-100  Inc  339 

174  Howard  W  Sams  Co  273 

193  SC  Digital  297 

2  Scion  Corp  5 

102  SciTronics  Inc  170 

115  Scott  Instruments  192 

131  Scottsdale  Systems  212 

113  Seattle  Computer  187 

234  Selanar  319 

190  Service  Technologies  293 

161  Shepardson  Microsystems  250 

67  Michael  Shrayer  Software  110 

*  Shugart  7 

*  Sinclair  Research  81 
112  Sirius  Systems  185 

356  Skyles  Electr  Works  408 

57  Small  Business  Appl  93 

44  Smoke  Signal  Broadcasting  77 

45  Smoke  Sig  Broad  (Dealers)  77 
180  Snapp  Inc  281 

183  Softech  Microsystems  287 

58  SOFTWARE  INC  94 

282  Software  Consultants  380 

280  Software  Dev  &  Trn  368 

143  The  Software  Exchange  227 

160  The  Software  Exchange  249 

82  The  Software  Federation  131 

337  Software  Labs  398 

347  The  Software  Toolworks  404 

263  The  SoHo  Group  335 
324  Solid  State  Sales  390 
353  Solid  State  Surplus  408 

368  Sonora  Computing  406 
23  Sorclm  40 

124  Sorrento  Valley  Assoc  202 

237  Sound  Concepts  321 

109  Southern  Comp  Systems  182 

350  Southwestern  Mngmnt  Sys  404 

384  Southwest  Tech  Prod  Corp  C  II 
236  Spectrum  Software  321 

365  SP  Electronics  406 

5  SSM11 

242  Stonehenge  Computer  Co  325 

176  Strategic  Simulations  275 

287  Street  Electronics  380 

170  Strobe  267 

278  SubLOGIC  336 

195  Summagraphics  298 

336  Sunny  Int'l  398 

65  SuperSoft  107 

169  SuperSoft  265 

232  SuperSoft  319 

246  SuperSoft  327 

41  Sybex  72,  73 

"  Synchro  Sound  114,  333 

257  Synergetic  Comp  Prod  333 
370  Systek  Inc  406 

186  System  Software  291 

145  Tarbell  Electronics  229 

38  Tech  Sys  Consultants  (TSC)  67 

294  Technical  Innovations  382 

121  Tec-Mar  Inc  197 

206  Texas  Comp  Sys  303 

47  3M  Company  79 

89  3G  Company  142 

142  Thunderware  226 

201  Mitchell  E  Timin  Eng  Co  301 

*  Robert  Tinney  Graphics  167 
260  TNW  Corp  335 

318  The  Toolsmith  386 

185  TransNET291 

385  United  Business  Products  C III 

*  United  Software  of  Am  84,  85 
29  Universal  Data  Systems  51 

369  Universal  Security  Inst  406 

351  US  Micro  Sales  405 

*  US  Robotics  101 
239  VAN  DATA  323 

59  Vector  Graphics  97 
286  Videx  380 

203  Vintage  Books  302 

36  Vista  Computer  Co  59 

323  Vista  Computer  Co  389 

364  VLSI  Computer  Sys  406 

218  Voicetek  309 

375  VR  Data  416,  417 

330  Wameco  394 

313  WCAS386 

*  Whitesmith's  Ltd  99 

258  Wild  Hare  Comp  Sys  333 
292  Wintek  Corp  382 

264  Winterhalter  &  Assoc  337 

357  Worldwide  Electronics  408 

340  WW  Component  Supply  Inc  400 

360  X  &  Y  Enterprises  408 

192  Zilog  Inc  297 

271  Zs  Systems  341 


a  company  to  rely  on.  .  . 
h\  united  business  products 


m 


Custc^tf^rms 
Wilbc&a^arantee 


jjf^jflR 

■H     j 

^A-« 

te   'v«r*  lE^ 

T  *l;  ^* 

I  Hf    ^aJLiN 

LSisM  vrH 

■f    jmi 

ta#*^  '  V:,     H 

^m  ■;.        v  ~*5H 

^^  .^^       ^^J  ■ 

■**■     *  9 

mk^-f. 

9 

flPifcfi£  r 

^1  n 

^BBBE^?T^^!*3t*? 

united  business  products 

20268  E.  Carrey  Rd. 
WALNUT,  CA.  91789 


A' 


NITED 

Business 
Products 


(213)  448-4850 
(714)  594-5966 


NAME  OF  COMPANY  , 


ADDRESS 


CITY,  STATE,  ZIP 


attention  or  dept. 


A  D  The  swingline  table  top  burster  will  separate  single-ply  continuous 
forms  into  individual  sheets  up  to  15".  Length  2W  to  12".  Paper  weight  10  to 
110  lb.  bond.  Speed  is  constant  at  125  ft.  per  minute. 

Wt.  95  lbs.  Price     $  899.00 

B  D  Our  custom  forms  have  a  guarantee  that  speaks  for  itself.  Our  time  on 
forms  range  from  two  to  five  weeks  for  custom  work  and  before  we  start  a  job 
we  now  give  a  guaranteed  shipping  date  and  price,  depending  on  art  work, 
from  two  to  five  weeks  and  for  every  day  we're  late  we  give  you  a  10%  discount. 
To  get  a  quote  just  mail  the  detached  portion  of  this  ad  with  sample  of  form  or 
layout  and  we  will  call  you  the  day  we  get  the  information  with  a  price  and 
guaranteed  day  of  shipment 

C  D  The  swingline  table  top  decollator  is  a  portable  unit  which  separates 
both  carbon  and  carbonless  continuous  computer  forms  into  stacks.  The 
separated  carbon  is  easily  and  neatly  removed  from  carbon  pick-up  spool. 
Form  size  is  up  to  15"  wide.  Wt.  is  10  to  110  lb.  bond  paper,  and  the  speed  is 
variable  from  75  to  200  feet  per  minute  and  takes  only  120  volts  AC  60  hertz  to 
operate. 

Wt.  40  lbs. 


Price    $  419.00 

D  D  The  Datatech  Intimus  007  shredder  works  for  Scotland  Yard,  for 
government  authorities,  for  important  corporations,  banks  and  embassies. 
The  cutting  capacity  is  12  to  14  sheets  at  one  pass.  Crosscut  is  1/35x3/8.  It  has 
a  2  HP.  motor  and  runs  off  of  220/380  V  3  phase. 


Wt.  320  Lbs. 


Price     $6799.00 


E  D  The  Intimus  306  is  designed  for  trouble  free  operation  and  has  a  switch 
for  forward  and  reverse  rotation.  It  has  2  motors  with  terminal  overload. 
Housing  consists  of  coated  steel,  mounted  on  rubber  cushions  for  noiseless 
shredding.  The  306  can  sit  on  a  table  or  a  stand.  Cutting  width  is  Ve"  or  14"  and 
has  two  150  watt  1 10  V  60  cycle.  1  phase  motors. 


Wt  66  Lbs. 


Price     $1199.00 


F  D  The  Intimus  Simplex  is  designed  for  security  without  problems  in  the 
office.  One  push  of  the  button  renders  confidential  information  into  five 
illegible  paper  strips  W  thin.  The  simplex  has  a  wide  opening  in  the  middle  for 
throw  away  of  cans,  etc.  Even  a  paperclip  is  simply  cut  into  pieces.  The  cutting 
capacity  is  8  to  10  sheets  at  one  time.  It  has  a  1/5  H. P.  motor  and  runs  off  of  1 10 
volts. 

Wt.  27  Lbs.  Price     $  599.00 

G  D  Our  catalog  consists  of  more  information  on  equipment  in  this  ad. 
Other  models  are  available  plus  a  complete  line  of  calculators  and  typewriters 
by  Adler,  Lathem  time  recorders,  several  varieties  of  safes,  and  our 
disintegrator  that  destroys  paper,  aluminum,  film  and  carbon  to  a  complete 
loss  of  identity. 

Price  $2.00 


D  Free  Brochures  and  more  information: 

1.  □  Business  Forms 

2.  o  Calculators 

3.  o   Forms  Handling  Equipment 

4.  d  Time  Recorders 

5.  d  Typewriters 


Terms:  Check  or  money  order  U.S.  funds  only.  Prepaid  orders  add  3%  S/H,  COD's  add  5%  S/H  (U.S. only).  California 

residents  add  6%  sales  tax.  hm 

Prices  subject  to  change  without  notice.  JSL 


Circle  385  on  inquiry  card. 


mascu*,  b 


Ohio  Scientific: 
The  leader  in 
Winchester 
based  micro- 
computers. 


Ohio  Scientific  produced  the  first  large  capacity 
fixed  media  hard  disk  (Winchester)  based 
microcomputers  in  1977.  Since  then  we  have 
shipped  more  of  these  systems  than  the  rest  of 
the  microcomputer  industry  combined. 

Family  Features 

All  standard  C3  features  including: 

•  3-processor  CPU  with  6502,  Z80  and  6800 

•  .7MIPS6502A 

•  48K  static  RAM 

•  Dual  8"  floppies 

•  Free  standing  rack  for  direct  expansion  capabilities 

•  17-slot  OSI  48  line  BUS  architecture  for  large  system 
expansion 

•  Directly  accepts  up  to  8  users  with  currently  available 
memory  boards,  more  with  higher  density  boards  in  the 
future 

•  Directly  expandable  for  use  as  Network  data  bases 

•  Slide-mounted  subassemblies,  removable  side  panels  and 
locking  rear  door  for  easy  expansions  and  service. 

C3-A 

The  floppy  only  rack  based  C3  for  users  who  anticipate 
expansion  to  hard  disk,  multi-user  and/or  networking  in  the 
future.  Under  $7000. 

C3-B 

The  world's  most  powerful  microcomputer  (when  GT 
equipped).  Features  the  highly  advanced  and  extensively 
field  proven  OKIDATA  3306  Winchester  disk. 

Features 

•  System  boots  from  floppies  or  hard  disk  on  power  up 

•  74  megabytes  end  user  workspace  under  OS-65U,  80 
megabytes  unformatted 

•  Ultra-high  performance  disk 
74  millisec  worst  case  access 
38  millisec  average 

10  millisec  access  on  cylinder  (215K  user  workspace) 
8  megabits  per  second  transfer  rate 

•  Simple  on/off  disk  operation  with  elaborate  internal 
protection  from  improper  temperature,  line  voltage  and 
controller  failures 

•  Features  spindle  brake  and  designated  head  landing  areas 
for  much  longer  operational  life  than  the  newer  low-cost 
Winchesters 

•  Highly  advanced  OS-65U  operating  system: 
Multiple  level  pass  word  security 
Multiple  operating  systems  on  disk 

Ultra-high  speed  "FIND"  command  for  high  speed  string 
searches  (Associative  Access) 

Upward  compatible  with  multi-user  and  network  systems 
with  full  file,  peripheral  and  communications  arbitration 
between  users 


•  Available  factory  configured  for  up  to  8  users  and  network 
data  base  operation 

•  Expandable  to  CP/M  operation  by  adding  4K  (CM-2 
memory)  Under  $14,000 

C3-C 

A  medium  performance  Winchester  disk  based  system 

which  provides  the  ideal  cost/performance  ratio  in  typical 

small  business  applications.  The  C3-C  uses  the  Shugart 

SA4008  29  megabyte  Winchester  disk. 

Performance  specifications,  hardware  configuration  and 

software  is  identical  to  the  C3-B  with  the  following 

exceptions: 

•  23  megabytes  of  end  user  workspace  under  OS-65U 

•  29  megabytes  unformatted  capacity 

•  Medium  performance  Winchester 
240  millisec  worst  case  access 
87  millisec  average  access 

10  millisec  access  on  cylinder  (1 10K  user  workspace) 

•  Simple  on/off  disk  operation  Under  $11,000 

Ohio  Scientific  has  a  new  OEM  program  that  is  easy  to 
start  with,  and  provides  generous  discounts  for  quantity 
purchases. 

For  literature  and  the  name  of  your  local 
dealer,  CALL  1-800-321-6850  TOLL  FREE. 

OHIO  SCIENTIFIC 

1333  SOUTH  CHILLICOTHE  ROAD 
AURORA,  OH  44202  •  [21 6]  831  -5600 


Circle  386  on  Inquiry  card. 


