T 




UNIVERSAL static memory card 

• 32K bytes -ROM, RAM, EPROM or a combination 

• SS-50 A&C compatible with 16 and 20 bit address decoding 

• Compatible with all SWTPC 6800 and 6809 computers 



This is the most versatile memory card you can 
buy. Our S-32 may be populated with up to 
32K of static RAM, EPROM, or ROM, or any 
4K block combination of these that you may 
desire. Any 5-volt 2716 pinout compatible 
memory may be used in this card. Any 4K block 
of the memory may be jumper block program- 
med for RAM or ROM use. This feature 
makes this the ideal memory for those process 
control applications that require a mixture of 
ROM and RAM memory. The board is fully 
compatible with all SWTPC 6800 and 6809 com- 
puters. 



The power requirement for the board is only 
1.75 amps at 5.0 volts with a full 32K of RAM 
installed. 

S-32 Circuit card assembled 

-less memory IC's (uses up to 16). $99.50 

2716 Type EPROM for above $50.00 ea. 

16K (2K x 8) Static RAM for above 

(4016 or 2128) $50.00 ea. 




SOUTHWEST TECHNICAL PRODUCTS CORPORATION 

219 W. RHAPSODY 

SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS 78216 (512) 344-0241 

Circle 258 on inquiry card. 




InTCieOu 




WH April 1980 
Volume 5, Number 4 




Foreground 



page 18 




page 40 




page 60 




96 COMPUTING THE / CHING WITH A TRS-80 

by Dr Edwin Dethlefsen 

If you cannot afford both a set of tortoise-shell casting wands and a personal computer, you 

should buy the computer and use the program in this article to peer into the Book of Changes. 

142 THE GREAT RACE AND MICRO DISK FILES, Horse Race Simulations 

by Joseph J Roehrig 

Here is a demonstration of some disk file management techniques used in a delightful game pro- 
gram. 

198 PROGRAM THOSE 2708s! by Robert Glaser 

Programming this erasable programmable read-only memory for 8080-based microcomputers is 

easy with this author's hardware building and software usage methods. 

212 APPLE AUDIO PROCESSING by Mark A Cross 

Here is a simple interface you can add to an Apple II to allow audio input and output. 

234 BUILD A LOW-COST EPROM ERASER by L B Goiter 

Do you need to change the programs in your erasable programmable read-only memory? Try 

building this ultraviolet EPROM eraser to do the job. 



Background 



18 USING THE COMPUTER AS A MUSICIANS AMANUENSIS, 
Part 1: Fundamental Problems by Jef Raskin 

In the first of two parts, this author explores several musical concepts and poses some of the in- 
itial music-to-printed-score translation problems. 

34 ADD A SIMPLE TEXT EDITOR TO YOUR BASIC PROGRAMS 

by Robert G A Goff 

Having a text formatting routine when you output large amounts of text is useful. Now you can 

see how easy it is to implement an editor in BASIC. 

40 EASE INTO 16-BIT COMPUTING, Part 2: Examining a Small 
Multi-User System, by Steve Ciarcia 

Last month, Steve told us about the 8088 processor's capabilities. Now he discusses a two-user 
system with Tiny BASIC that can be built using only five integrated circuits. 

70 ADVANCED REAL-TIME MUSIC SYNTHESIS TECHNIQUES 

by Hal Chamberlin 

This well-known computer music maker discusses the fine points of how he uses versatile digital- 
to-analog converters with a typical personal computer. 

118 CALCULATING FILTER CAPACITOR VALUES FOR COMPUTER POWER 
SUPPLIES by John Thomas 

Here is a homebrewer's explanation of how formulas and guidelines were developed for choosing a 
particular electronic component. 

124 A GRAPHICS TEXT EDITOR FOR MUSIC, Part 1: Structure of the Editor 

by Randolph Nelson 

Now you can learn to enter musical scores into your computer by using a graphics tablet. 



Nucleus 



page 234 



6 Editorial: Bar Codes 


104, 110 Technical Forum: 


Revisited... 


MicroShakespeare; More 


12 Letters 


GOTOXY 


32, 240 BYTE's Bits 


115 BYTE News 


60, 68 Programming Quickies: 


222 Clubs and Newsletters 


An Animated Slot Machine in 


226 Event Queue 


Color; A White Noise Generator 


242 What's New? 


for the Apple II 


287 Unclassified Ads 


66, 220 BYTE's Bugs 


288 Reader Service, BOMB 



April 180 © BYTE Publications Inc 3 



Publishers 

Virginia Londoner, Gordon R Williamson 
Associate Publisher 
John E Hayes 
Assistant 

Cheryl A Hurd 

Editorial Director 

Carl T Helmers Jr 

Editor-in-Chief 

Christopher P Morgan 

Book Editor 

Bruce A Roberts 

Editors 

Richard S Shuford, Gregg Williams, 

Curtis P Feigel 

Assistant to the Editors 

Faith Ferry 

Assistant 

Debe Wheeler 

New Products Editor 

Clubs, Newsletters 

Charles Freiberg 

Drafting 

Jon Swanson 

Production Director 

Nancy Estle 
Production Art 

Wai Chiu Li, Christine Dixon, 

Holly Carmen LaBossiere, Deborah Porter 

Senior Copy Editor 

David William Hayward 
Copy Editors 

Faith Hanson, Warren Williamson, 
Robin M Moss, Anthony J Lockwood 

Typographers 

Sherry McCarthy, Deborah Fredericks 

Advertising Director 

Thomas Harvey 

Assistants 

Ruth M Walsh, Ms. Marion Gagnon 

Special Projects Coordinator 

Jill E Cailihan 

Assistant 

Karen A Cilley 

Marketing Coordinator 

Laura A Hanson 

Circulation Manager 

Gregory Spltzfaden 

Assistants 

Pamela R H Spitzfaden, Agnes E Perry, 

Melanie Bertoni, Barbara Varnum, 

Louise Menegus 

Dealer Sales 

Thomas Yanni 

Receptionist 

Jacqueline Earnshaw 

Traffic Department 

Mark Sandagata 

Controller 

Daniel Rodrigues 

Assistant 

Mary E Fluhr 

Accounts Receivable Specialist 

Karen Burgess 

Accounts Receivable Assistant 

Jeanne Cilley 

National Advertising Sales Representatives: 

Hajar Associates Inc 

East 

280 Hillside Av, Needham Heights MA 02194 

(617) 444-3946 

521 Fifth Av, New York NY 10017 

(212)682-5844 

Midwest 

664 N Michigan Av, Suite 1010, 

Chicago IL 60611 (312) 337-8008 

West, Southwest 

1000 Elwell Ct, Suite 227, Palo Alto CA 94303 

(415) 964-0706/(714) 540-3554 




ON THE COVER 



This month's cover features Hewlett-Packard's new bar code loader. The 
unit is described in detail in Carl Helmers' editorial on page 6. \ 
have been around for several years, in one form or another, but the 
HEDS-3000 Digital Wand is the first serious attempt to make bar codes a 
part of personal computing. Bar code readers ivill soon be used to enter 
recipe information into your microwave oven, read the bar codes on 
groceries, and enter programs into your computer. 

Also in this issue are several articles dealing with computer music. A lot 
has happened since our last special issue on music in September, 1977. 
Many of the new computers feature sound effects as a matter of course, 
such as the Atari and Texas Instruments models. This month Hal 
Chamberlin talks about recent developments in digital-to-analog (D/A) 
techniques for multiple-voice music generation; ]ef Raskin describes a 

"inuensis" or computerized music stenographer (the first of two 
pur ib/; una Randolph Nelson reveals the details of how to enter and modify 
musical information into a computer quickly and efficiently. 



Officers of McGraw-Hill Publications Company: Paul F. McPherson, President; Executive Vice Presidents: James 
E. Boddorf, Gene W. Simpson; Group Vice President: Daniel A. McMillan; Senior Vice President-Editorial: Ralph R. 
Schulz; Vice Presidents: Kemp Anderson, Business Systems Development; Stephen C. Croft, Manufacturing; 
Robert B. Doll, Circulation; James E. Hackett, Controller; William H. Hammond, Communications; Eric B. Herr, 
Planning and Development; John W. Patten, Sales; Edward E. Schirmer, International. 

Officers of the Corporation: Harold W McGraw Jr, President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board; 
Robert F Landes, Senior Vice President and Secretary; Ralph J Webb, Treasurer. 

BYTE is published monthly by BYTE Publications Inc, 70 Main St, Peterborough NH 03458, a wholly-owned sub- 
sidiary of McGraw-Hill, Inc. Address all mail except subscriptions to above address: phone (603) 924-9281. Address 
subscriptions, change of address, USPS Form 3579, and fulfillment questions to BYTE Subscriptions, PO Box 590, 
Martinsville NJ 08836. Controlled circulation pending, Waseca, Minnesota 56093. (ISSN 0360-5280). Canadian 
second class registration number 9321. Subscriptions are $18 for one year, $32 for two years, and $46 for three 
years in the USA and its possessions. In Canada and Mexico, $20 for one year, $36 for two years, $52 for three 
years. $32 for one year air delivery to Europe. $32 surface delivery elsewhere. Air delivery to selected areas at addi- 
tional rates upon request. Single copy price is $2.50 in the USA and its possessions, $2.95 in Canada and Mexico, 
$4.00 in Europe, and $4.50 elsewhere. Foreign subscriptions and sales should be remitted in United States funds 
drawn on a US bank. Printed in United States of America. 

Address all editorial correspondence to the editor at the above address. Unacceptable manuscripts will be 
returned if accompanied by sufficient first class postage. Not responsible for lost manuscripts or photos. Opinions 
expressed by the authors are not necessarily those of BYTE. Entire contents copyright © 1980 by BYTE Publica- 
tions Inc. All rights reserved. ^ ta * 

BYTE® is available in microform from University Microfilms International, 300 N Zeeb Rd, Dept PR, * t 
Ann Arbor Ml 48106 USA or 18 Bedford Row, Dept PR, London WC1R 4EJ ENGLAND. * ' 

Subscription WATS Line: (800) 258-5485 

Office hours: Mon-Thur 8:30 AM - 4:30 PM, Friday 8:30 AM - Noon, Eastern Time 



April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



512 x 484 resolution 
display supervised "by 
its own Z80 micropro- 
cessor 

32K bytes of dual port 
memory give a com- 
pletely undisturbed 
screen image 
Resident software em- 
ulates an ASCII ter- 
minal and provides 
graphics routines for 
point, line, region, and 
light pen usage, and 
more 

Compatible with any 
S-100 system, yet eas- 
ily interfaced to other 
computers 

72 key keyboard with 
graphics function 
keys 

15" high performance 
monitor 




SUBSYSTEMS 




By 
SCION CORP. 



Wordsmith Word Pro- 
cessor software 
40-line page display 
Selectric layout key- 
board plus 20 Word- 
smith function keys 

15" high performance 
monitor 

Compatible with S-100 
systems 

Complete documenta- 
tion 



Call or write: 

SCION CORP. 

8455-D Tyco Road 

Vienna, Virginia 22180 

(703) 827-0888 



Look for 

Shugart drives 

in personal 

computer systems 

made by these 

companies. 



Altos Computer Systems 

2360 Bering Drive 
San Jose, CA 95131 



Apple Computer 

10260 Bandley Drive 
Cupertino, CA 95014 



Commodore Business Machines, Inc. 

3330 Scott Boulevard 
Santa Clara, CA 95051 



Digital Microsystems Inc. 

4448 Piedmont Avenue 
Oakland, CA 94611 



Industrial Micro Systems 

628 N. Eckhoff 
Orange, CA 92668 



Micromotion Inc. 

1620 Montgomery Street 
San Francisco, CA 941 1 1 



Morrow Designs Inc. 

Thinker Toys 

5221 Central Avenue 

Richmond, CA 94804 



North Star Computers Inc. 

1440 Fourth Street 
Berkeley, CA 94710 



Polymorphic Systems 

460 Ward Drive 

Santa Barbara, CA 93111 



Tano Corporation 

4301 Poche Court West 
New Orleans, LA 70129 



Technico Inc. 

9051 Red Branch Road 
Columbia, MD 21045 



Texas Electronic Instruments 

5075 S. Loop East 
Houston, TX 77033 



Vista Computer Company 

1401 E. Borchard 
Santa Ana, CA 92705 



^Shugart 



6 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Editorial 



Bar Codes, Revisited . 



Carl Helmets 



It was with great excitement that I opened a package which recently arrived 
from Hewlett-Packard's Optoelectronics people in Palo Alto, California. This 
package contained one of the first production versions of the model 
HEDS-3000 bar-code data-entry wand. A photo of the wand as it came to us 
was prepared by Ed Crabtree as a cover for this April 1980 issue of BYTE. The 
bar-code reader opens the way to a whole new field of applications of small in- 
telligent processors. 

As long-time readers of BYTE will recall, we have in the past presented no 
small amount of information on the concept of printing digital information in 
bar-coded form as a method of economically distributing data or programs for 
use in a personal computer or other local processors. (See page 10 for "A 
History of Bar Code Information Published in BYTE.") The idea is to treat the 
printed medium as a means of distributing data. With five centuries or so of 
technological progress since Johann Gutenberg's day, the techniques of 
making a good image on paper have been fairly well debugged. 

In the winter of 1976, I had first thought about this subject, then filed it 
away as an impractical scheme. My first thinking had been to try and use the 
direct output of a typewriter to record binary Is and 0s. But Is and 0s are not 
the ideal printed images to decode. They vary from typewriter to typewriter 
and have fairly low tolerance for variation in the position of a simple 
photosensor's scan. After putting aside this idea at that time, I expected to go 
no further with it. 

But then in the summer of 1976 I was approached by Walter Banks, who, at 
the time, was associated with the University of Waterloo's Computer Com- 
munications Network Group. Walter proposed to transform the printing 
scheme into a true bar code, rather than to use my original idea of employing a 
type font. He commented that the University of Waterloo had an old Photon 
phototypesetter that communicated directly to several of his computers, so 
that it would be a relatively trivial task to create bar-code images for various 
data sets. This gave us a representation which was realizable. 

But there was the problem of scanners. The technique would never become 
practical until a scanner that could be marketed for our target price, $50 in 
1976 dollars. (Four years later, at an order of magnitude of 10% per annum in- 
flation, our 1980 target is about $73.) The arbitrary figure of $50 (1976) was 
chosen so that the incremental cost would be small compared to the cost of a 
system which might use the technique. During the course of 1977, 1978, and 
1979, we have from time to time printed texts containing data encoded in a 
bar-code format in order to experiment with the technique, even if no scanners 
were available which met the price criterion. The thought here was that among 
our readers would be individuals who might wish to experiment with methods 
of reading the form. 

We also published a book written by Ken Budnick, about loaders and 
algorithms for decoding bar codes with several popular microprocessors. (This 
book, entitled Bar Code Loader, is available at a price of $2 plus postage of 
$0.60. It may be ordered from BYTE Books, 70 Main St, Peterborough NH 
03458.) 

But there remained the key requirement of an inexpensive mass-produced 
sensor for the bars. It would do little good to have a neat method of entry for 
mass-produced data unless the entry method were at a mass-produced price 
level (ie: not expensive relative to the total cost of the computer system). At 
the time Walter suggested this idea to me in the summer of 1976, the typical 
price of a commercially available bar-code sensor wand was $300 and up. We 
needed to excite enough interest in the concept to get a manufacturer interested 
in the technique for a number of purposes. 



"My 8 to 5 minifloppy now 
works nights and weekends? 




%% \ own a fast-growing business and before I 
bought my computer system I put in a lot of late 
hours keeping up with my accounting and 
inventory control. Now the computer does my 
number crunching quickly, so I have time after 
hours to have some fun with the system. My son 
and I started out playing Star Trek on the system, 
and now we're learning to play chess. 

"When I was shopping around for my system, 
the guys in the computer stores demonstrated all 
the unique features of the minifloppy. I've got to 
admit that at first I didn't really understand all the 
technical details. But now that I use the system 
every day, I really appreciate the minifloppy's fast 
random access and data transfer. I like the 
reliability, too. 



"I'm glad I went with Shugart drives. Look, 
when you lay out your own money for a system, 
you want dependable performance and good 
value. Do what I did. Ask for the system with the 
minifloppy." 

If it isn't Shugart, 
it isn't minifloppy. 

^® Shugart Associates 

435 Oakmead Parkway, Sunnyvale, California 94086 



See opposite page for list of manufacturers featuring Shugart's minifloppy in their systems. 

TM minifloppy is a registered trademark of Shugart Associates 



As a result of the interest expressed in the magazine, 
Walter and I were contacted by John Sien of Hewlett- 
Packard's Optoelectronics Division in the spring of 1978. 
That year we stopped by at Hewlett-Packard after the 
National Computer Conference, which was held in 
Anaheim, California, as it will be again in May of this 
year. 

Walter and I spent a solid day of activity with John and 
several of his product engineering and development 
people going over the functional specifications of what 
we wanted to see in a bar-code reader that was to be 
suitable for use with printed software. We were, of 
course, not told about specific details of any product they 
might have had under development at that time. Our 
purpose was to convey the functional specifications and 
an idea about the potential markets for such a product in 
the personal-computing area. But, as recent events have 
confirmed, Hewlett-Packard has decided to market just 
such a product. 

The product is the Model HEDS-3000 bar-code reader 
wand, which is found on this month's cover. The wand 
can be purchased off the shelf from any Hewlett-Packard 
distributor around the world. The list price for a single 
unit is $99.50 from the distributor. Technical information 
about the digital wand can be obtained by contacting 
Hewlett-Packard directly at 640 Page Mill Rd, Palo Alto 
CA 94304; Attention: John Sien. The technical informa- 
tion that comes with the prototype reader kit includes the 
Digital Wand User's Manual for the HEDS-3000 and the 
detailed six-page engineering specifications for the 
device, dated October 1979 in the case of our copy. 

The wand's price in production quantities will of 
course be significantly lower than the single-unit price of 
$99.50, depending on volume and details of the trans- 
action like custom molding. John reports that Hewlett- 
Packard will supply this product in volume with 
numerous optional specifications. For example, there are 
193 different combinations of case colors. The wand can 
be had in quantity with or without the manual push-to- 
read switch, with or without a custom label, and with or 
without the nine-pin D-type connector found in the 
prototype version. 

John also reports that there is considerable interest 
from appliance manufacturers in use of this product to 
enter user-variable data. Thus, we can, for example, 
foresee microwave ovens that have scanning wands for 
entry of cooking instructions, kitchen computers that use 
scanning wands for entry of nutritional data used in 
managing various kinds of special diets, and other such 
appliances. To such a manufacturer of appliances, the 
bar-code option is very real and usable now, because of 
the existence of this product. 

Other applications suggested by some of the Hewlett- 
Packard literature on the wand include file-folder track- 
ing in offices, ticket verification, identifying assemblies in 
an electronics-service environment, security checkpoint 
verification, and the "classical" application of inventory 
control. This bar-code wand is the same one which is 
used to distribute user-library programs in an attachment 
for the HP-41C calculator, although it has a special inter- 
face and a different model number in that application. 

For experimenters and systems designers interested in 
trying the wand, its interface is a model of simplicity and 
ease. Three wires are all that are required, as seen in 

8 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



figure 1. This figure is reproduced from page 9 of the ex- 
cellent fifteen-page user's manual which accompanies the 
prototype kit for the HEDS-3000. 

One wire supplies power, which is specified to be from 
3.6 to 5.75 V. The reader attachment consumes a 
nominal, but fairly trivial, 50 mA worst-case current. A 
second wire is ground. The third wire is a signal connec- 
tion, which represents an open-collector output similar to 
that of a typical opto-isolator. In the transistor-transistor 
logic (TTL) interface of figure la, this signal line is pulled 
up to the supply voltage with a 2.2 K ohm resistor. The 
recommended TTL-level interface also obtains hysteresis 
by using a Schmitt trigger integrated circuit, such as the 
74LS13. Figure lb shows a somewhat more complicated 
complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) 
logic interface. 

As of this writing, I have not yet connected the wand 
and experimented with it. Nearly any computer will do 
for those who wish to try this circuit. An obvious connec- 
tion, for example, is to the game-paddle port of an Apple 
II computer, which has the necessary power and signal 
lines. A similar arrangement could be made with a 
parallel data port for the typical S-100-based computer 
such as the North Star or Cromemco machines. For com- 
plete low-level, assembly-language software needed to 
read bar codes published as a PAPERBYTE® , see Ken 
Budnick's book mentioned earlier. In it readers will find 
8080/Z80, 6502, and 6800 versions of routines needed to 
scan our PAPERBYTE® format. These routines may 
also be used as a model for similar programming of other 
formats such as the HP-41C calculator format. 

How about printing bar-code formats? It turns out that 
our original use of a phototypesetter is far more elaborate 
than is really required. Any software house can begin to 
supply variations of their products in bar-coded form 



v s O 



+ 5V 

t 



►2.2K 



V O 






74LS14 



GND O- 



-C>G N D 



+ 5V 



V S O 



V O 



GN0 C> 



t>V 




DD 



O v S s 



Figure 1: A pair of schematics showing (la) the TTL interface for 
the HEDS-3000 bar-code reader, and (lb) the CMOS-logic inter- 
face. This diagram is reproduced from page 9 of the HEDS-3000 
Digital Wand User's Manual, which accompanies the reader in a 
prototyping kit. 



Circle 2 on inquiry card. 



A 



At Intersystems, 
"dump" is an instruction. 

Not a way of life. 

[Or, when you're ready for IEEE S-KX), will your 
computer be ready for you?] 




We're about to be gadflies again. 

While everyone's been busy 
trying to convince you that large 
buses housed in strong metal 
boxes will guarantee versatility 
and ward off obsolescence, we've 
been busy with something better. 
Solving the real problem with the 
first line of computer products 
built from the ground up to con- 
form to the new IEEE 5-100 Bus 
Standard. Offering you extra ver- 
satility in 8-bit applications today. 
And a full 16 bits tomorrow. 

We call our new line Series 
II™ And even if you don't need the 
full 24-bit address for up to 16 
megabytes (!) of memory right 
now, they're something to think 
about. Because of all the perform- 



ance, flexibility and economy 
they offer. Whether you're looking 
at a new mainframe, expanding 
your present one or upgrading 
your system with an eye to the 
future. (Series II boards are com- 
patible with most existing S-100 
systems and all IEEE S-100 Stan- 
dard cards as other manufacturers 
get around to building them.) 

Consider some of the fea- 
tures: Reliable operation to 4MHz 
and beyond. Full compatibility 
with 8- and 16-bit CPUs, pe- 
ripherals and other devices. Eight 
levels of prioritized interrupts. Up 
to 16 individually-addressable 
DMA devices, with IEEE Standard 
overlapped operation. User-selec- 
table functions addressed by DIP- 
switch or jumpers, eliminating sol- 
dering. And that's just for openers. 

The best part is that all this 
heady stuff is available nowl In 
our advanced processor— a full 
IEEE Bus Master featuring Memory 
Map™ addressing to a full mega- 
byte. Our fast, flexible 16K Static 
RAM and 64K Dynamic RAM 
boards. An incredibly versatile and 



economical 2-serial, 4-parallel 
Multiple I/O board. 8-bit A/D-D/A 
converter. Our Double-Density 
High-Speed Disk Controller. And 
what is undoubtedly the most flex- 
ible front panel in the business. 
Everything you need for a com- 
plete IEEE S-100 system. Available 
separately, or all together in our 
new DPS-1 Mainframe! 

Whatever your needs, why 
dump your money into obsolete 
products labelled "IEEE timing 
compatible" or other words peo- 
ple use to make up for a lack of 
product. See the future now, at 
your Intersystems dealer or call/ 
write for our new catalog. We'll 
tell you all about Series II and the 
new IEEE S-100 Bus we helped 
pioneer. Because it doesn't make 
sense to buy yesterday's products 
when tomorrow's are already here. 




i&m 



TO 1 



Ithaca Intersystems Inc., 
1650 Hanshaw Road/RO. Box 91, 

Ithaca, NY 14850 
607-257-0190/TWX: 510 255 4346 



'*ii M *H *,■' l, 
*?»i m;-m- - m Pm 



\m 



•-*:>;*# 



, .*«•••■■■*•■ 






using a relatively inexpensive piece of equipment added 
to a typical small-computer system, namely a high- 
resolution, hard-copy printer with relatively small 
incremental-spacing intervals. 

For example, Tom McNeal of Hewlett-Packard's Cor- 
vallis Division (manufacturers of the HP-41C calculator) 
reports that he uses an impact printer with carbon-film 
ribbon to produce bar codes in the format shown in 
figure 2. Printers with similar characteristics of high- 
resolution placement of vertical bar characters are 
manufactured by companies such as Diablo, Qume, and 
NEC. In preparing an output of digital information, the 
precise spacing of the vertical bar characters is used to 
create a wide- or narrow-width imprint depending on the 
details of the format used. 

Let us conclude this commentary with some critique on 
the potential uses of the bar-code format in publishing 
programs or data. The first and most important comment 
is that the technique is not intended to be useful with 
large files of data. When the bulk of information to be 
transferred by a user is in excess of ten to twenty thou- 
sand bytes, the bar-code method is not at all appropriate. 
It is best used for chunks of data that are on the order of 
hundreds of bytes rather than tens of thousands. 

The reason for this comment is that in our previous ex- 
periments with homebrew prototype wands, we found 
that the practical data-rate-equivalent for the manually 



ROOT FINDER 



PROGRAM REGISTERS NEEDED: 21 



ROW 1 (1-2) 

hi i!ii iiii iiiii ii i iiiitii i iiiiiii iiiii iiniiiiiiin 

ROW 2 (2-5) 

!lllllllllflll]IIHIIIIIII]llllllllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII[llllll!IIH 

ROW 3 (6-8} 

jmiii i f rni i ? ii ii ii [ iiii inr n ttiiiii i ni iriin u i iff m r i n n j i iiii i u 

: - - --- 4 (9-13) 

! lll!Jilil!llll!l!li!!IIIIIIIIIIM 

ROW 5 (14 - 24 ) 

llllllllllll[|llllllllll[l!lll^ 

ROW 6 (25 - 36) 

llllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllH 

ROW 7 (37 - 45) 

ii MiiiiE iiiii iiiiiiiii nil i i!itiiiM : Hiirin'ii run 11 mi :i it! it imh r^- r nin; ill' r 

ROW 8 {45 - 55) 

illlllfllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllM 

ROW 9 (56 - 6 5) 

M::l)!lMl>!'ll'i M MIME!' 1 1 1 ! ^ I : ! I : > ' ; M ! ! 1 1 1 ' I ' : 1 1 f ^ 1 1 ' 1 1': I : H > ' J : f ' . I < I ^ ; ! - J ! 9 > M < IT UtJi:. 1 1 1 1 til I . ! 1 1 ' : . M 1 1 ' T 

ROW 10 (66-71) 

[ 1 1 1! 1 1 1 1 1 I f 1 1 1 1 1 ! T 1 1 T ! I 1 1 1 F J 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 M M 1 1 ! 1 1 1 1 1 1 F f 1 1 1 1 U 11 ! 1 1 1 1 1 U 1 1 1 1 t 1 1 i I L I 1 1 1 1 

ROW 11 (71 - 7 5) 

! El! Ill II 3 in I IIIII II II 11 III II III IIII I T I II II MUM 

Figure 2: A sample of bar codes in the format used by the 
Hewlett-Packard HP-41C calculator. This sample consists of 
binary code for the HP-41C program called Root Finder, found 
in the HP-41C Standard Pac library. This image was prepared 
by Tom McNeal, who is a development engineer with the Cor- 
vallis Division of Hewlett-Packard. 

The format specifies that 2 start bits (both binary 0) be used, 
followed by three 8-bit header words, up to 13 data bytes, and 
then 2 stop bits (the first set to binary 1, the second to 0). The 
wide bars, which represent binary Is, should be twice the width 
of the narrow bars, which represent binary Os. The spaces serve 
as a gauge for the width of the narrow bars. 

The original image was printed on an BVi by 11 inch sheet of 
paper, but in reproducing it for use in the magazine we have 
reduced it in size to fit our layout. 



guided input of data is about 10 characters per second. 
The benchmark was taken using input from bar-coded 
program texts published in BYTE's various PAPERBYTE® 
software books. This data rate compares favorably with 
the paper-tape reader on an ASR33 Teletype, but is not! at 
all desirable for repeatedly loading a 10,000-byte file. 

But, when the data to be loaded has a high semantic 
content per byte of coded information, bar codes are 
quite appropriate. This is especially true when the system 
in which the bar code is used must deal with a great 
variety of such detailed specifications. An example of 
such semantically dense coding is the typical electronic 
calculator program, which might have several hundred 
bytes of information representing a very high level of 
function in each byte. Another example might be evi- 
denced by instructions for some hypothetical kitchen 
cooking appliance, which are printed as perhaps a hun- 
dred bytes of data on a food package. Another classic 
example often used in the past is use of bar codes as an 
inventory-control technique in fields as diverse as 
libraries and factories. And of course, the Universal Pro- 
duct Code (UPC) information found on many standar- 
dized supermarket products can be read by this wand, 
thus allowing home and kitchen applications impossible 
for personal computers before this price breakthrough. 

So, I will close my present commentary about bar 
codes by noting that we can expect further lively applica- 
tions articles to appear in future issues of BYTE. This is a 
natural prediction based on the fact that readers now can 
get their hands on the necessary hardware at a very 
reasonable price. The clever designers and marketeers of 
Hewlett-Packard have made the bar-code technology 
quite practical and useful in numerous new applications 
of the small computer. ■ 



A History of Bar-Code Information Published 
in BYTE 

1. Banks, W, C Helmers, and R Sanderson, "A 
Proposed Standard for Publishing Binary Data 
in Machine Readable Form, " November 1976 
BYTE, page 10. 

2. Banks, W, "Samples of Machine Readable 
Printed Software," December 1976 BYTE, page 
12. 

3. Farnell, C, and Seeds, G, "A Novel Bar Code 
Reader," October 1978 BYTE, page 162. 

4. Helmers, C, "Further Notes on Bar Codes," 
February 1977 BYTE, page 121. 

5. Helmers, C, "Another PAPERBYTES Test, " 
March 1977 BYTE, page 130. 

6. Helmers, C, and S S Loomis, "PAPERBYTES 
Forum /'July 1977 BYTE, page 128. 

7. Merkowitz, F L, "Signal Processing for Optical 
Bar Code Scanning," December 1976 BYTE, page 
77. 

8. Merkowitz, F L, "Micro-Scan Corporation Bar 
Code Scanner" (Product Review), October 1978 
BYTE, page 166. 

9. Regli, K, "Software for Reading Bar Codes, " 
December 1976 BYTE, page 18. 

10. Shuford R, "A Proposal for a Kitchen Inventory 
System, or Don't Byte the Wand That Feeds 
You" (Technical Forum), December 1978 BYTE, 
page 184. 



10 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 3 on inquiry card. . 



New from SSM. 



^J-/^,J'. /, 



■«* 



wwwwwii 88*S> 



f;f:: { rf^ 



80 Character Video 

With 80 characters per line 
our VB3 is the perfect video 
interface for word processing. 
It produces a standard 80x24 
display of upper and lower case 
characters or as much as 80x51 
for a full page of text. The matrix 
for graphic display goes up to 
160x204. And with optional 
EPROM as many as 256 user 
programmed characters or 



for rapid screen updating. But it 
occupies memory only when 
activated. So one or more VB3s 
can be located at the same 
address with a full 65K of mem- 
ory still available to the user. 

It generates both U.S. and 
European TV rates and meets 
the new IEEE S-100 standard. 
Other features include key- 



white on black, one level of grey, 
underline, strike thru, blinking 
char., blank-out char., and 
programmable cursor. Software 
includes a CP/M compatible 
driver and a powerful terminal 
simulator. 

VB3 is available in several 
configurations. Retail prices 
start at S375 kit. S440 assembled. 



Z-80 CPU 

We spent o 
designing the CL^ t 
it will be the most fully S-100 
compatible Z-80 CPU on the 
market. 

It operates at 2MHZ or 
4MHZ by DIP switch selection 
and includes two sockets for 
2716/2732 EPRGMsorTMS 
4016 2K RAMs. Memory sock- 
ets can be disabled. Separate 
run/stop and single step switches 
allow system evaluation without 
the benefit of a front panel. 

CB2 also features an 
MWR1TE signal, firmware 
vector jump, and an output port 
to control 8 extended address 
lines (allowing use of more than 
65K of memory). Jumper 
options generate the new IEEE 
S-100 signals to insure future 
S-100 compatibility. 

Retail price— S210 kit, 
5275, assembled. 



Our line. CPU. Video. I/O, RAM. 
EPROM, EPROM Programmer, 
Music, Prototyping, Terminator. 
Ext e ruler, and Mother boards, i 
Available assembled or as kits. 



S080CPU 

Our new CB1A is identical 
to our popular CB1 with the 
exception that the on-board 
RAM has been increased from 
256 bytes to a full IK. 

It also features an optional 
2K of 2708 EPROMs, power-on/ 
reset vector jump, MWR1TE, 



and DIP switch addressing. 
Retail price— 5159 kit, 
S219 assembled. 



-S557 



21 16 Walsh Avenue 

Santa Clara, CA 95050 (4(38) 24o-270 J 



out why SSM has beeon 
of discerning Hobbyists 




Letters 



Disputed Analysis of Frequency 

The article "Frequency Analysis of 
Data Using a Microcomputer" 
(December 1979 BYTE, page 10) by Dr 
F R Ruckdeschel would have been very 
useful, if he had not made one disas- 
trous error: he did not realize that 
Fourier coefficients for discrete, equally 
spaced data points can be validly calcu- 
lated only at certain discrete frequencies. 
This error caused the wide smearing of 
the frequency plots shown in the article. 
These plots should have shown very 
sharp maxima, with little or no 
amplitude at other frequencies. 

I devised a version of his program 
that now gives the correct results. My 
program shows that his figure 2 (page 
18) was correct, but that figure 3 was 
incorrect. In figure 3, essentially all of 
the energy was actually in the first fre- 
quency, as would be expected. The only 
energy present in the other frequencies 
was due to the inexact input data, and 
to round-off errors during calculation. 

My analysis of a square wave (his 
figures 5, 6, and 7) differs. A square 



wave should contain only odd frequency 
components. My analysis of a sixty-five- 
point, eight-period sine wave (his figures 
10 and 11) also differs. My plot shows 
that essentially all of the energy is in fre- 
quency number 8, as would be expected. 

My analysis of a sixty-five-point, 
eight-period sine wave with random 
noise added shows that there is now 
some energy distributed among other 
frequencies, due to the noise component. 

The major changes to the program 
include: 

1) It now calculates only the discrete 
frequencies that are valid. These 
valid frequencies correspond to sine 
(or cosine) waves with one complete 
cycle, two complete cycles, three 
complete cycles, etc, in the data. 
This can be visualized most easily 
by setting the data end to end, to 
form a complete loop; then the only 
valid frequencies are those that can 
fit around the loop without having 
any discontinuity. 

2) Lanczos' method is used to prepare 
the data; this reduces the amount of 



r 



NEW 

INCREDIBLE Computer 

only $24.95 



% 



nent Program 







MONTY™ 
Challenges 



5 You to I 



DPOLY 



MONTY™ is full of surprises. Entertains as he plays— with 

music and colorful visual effects. Cassette programs available 

for 16 K APPLE II* and 16K Level II TRS-80* microcomputers for use 

with your Monopoly game. MONTY™ is a shrewd operator. 

But he can be beaten. Send $24.95 check or money order (postage paid) 

lowans add 3% sales tax. Remember..." MONTY™ plays Monopoly." 

sl fi RitamCorporahon® P.O. Box 921, Fairfield, Iowa 52556 



V 



'Monopoly is a trademark of Parker Bros., Inc. 
Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 
TRS-80 is a trademark of Tandy Corp. 

©Ritam Corporation, 1980 



City™.. 



.Zfc__ 



3) 



J 



calculation by one half (for longer 
problems) and also reduces the 
round-off error. (See Lanczos, C, 
Discourse on Fourier Series, Hafner 
Publishing Co, New York, 1966, 
page 119.) The data is folded at the 
center, and the sums and differences 
are calculated to make two new 
series of numbers, each set one-half 
as long as the original data set. The 
trend is also removed, to allow 
analysis of data that has a straight- 
line, up or down trend. Calculation 
of thirty-two frequencies for sixty- 
five data points now takes just over 
2 minutes. 

The amplitude and phase are calcu- 
lated for each frequency. Note that 
frequency is the base level of the 
data, frequency 1 is for one cycle in 
the data, frequency 2 is for two 
cycles in the data, etc. The phase is 
given in degrees, and is checked for 
a sine-coefficient (which would 
give a divide-by-zero error), and is 
adjusted to the proper quadrant (in 
the to ±180 degrees convention). 
The number of valid sine and cosine 
coefficients that can be calculated 
for a set of data are equal in 
number to the number of data 
points. (The and (N-l)/2 fre- 
quencies have only a cosine coeffi- 
cient.) Beyond this point, the ab- 
solute values of the sine and cosine 
coefficients repeat (this is called 
aliasing). A message is printed on 
the table at this point. 
In the frequency plots, the 
amplitude tends to decline sharply 
at first, then more slowly. To com- 
pensate for this, I plot energy for 
each frequency instead of ampli- 
tude. Energy will tend to remain 
constant for all frequencies, making 
higher levels stand out more clearly. 
I also plot bar graphs instead of 
only the maximum level, and for 
clarity label each bar. The fre- 
quency is not plotted, as it has no 
bearing on the frequency spectrum, 
and only valid frequencies are plot- 
ted. 



With my revised program, meaningful 
frequency analysis of data is much 
easier. 



4) 



Delmer D Hinrichs 
2116 SE 377th Ave 
Washougal WA 98671 



Reply from the Author 

/ received several interesting letters 
regarding my article "Frequency Analysis 
of Data Using a Microcomputer, " 
December 1979 BYTE, page 10. Most of 
the letters were in reference to errors on 



12 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 4 on inquiry card. 



Circle 45 on inquiry card. • 



nn-e& 2 2^ a ° d 'V ^ 






Circle 5 on inquiry card. 

r 



hVwr Computer 




HERE'S WHAT THE DOCTOR 

PRESCRIBES FOR YOUR 

Ailing MICROCOMPUTER: 

muLISP from the Soft Warehouse 

# Over 80 primitively defined LISP 
functions. 

# Infinite precision integer arithmetic 
expressed in any desired radix base 
from 2 through 36. 

# Auto m ati c dynamic m emo ry m an age - 
ment performed by an efficient gar- 
bage collector. 

# Flexible but structured program con- 
trot constructs including an extended 
COND and multiple exit LOOP. 

# Extremely fast execution speed 
achieved by the use of shallow bind- 
ing, address typing, and a closed 
pointer universe. 

The Soft Warehouse can fill your pre- 
scription with the muLlSP-79 tm Soft- 
ware System. It is fully integrated into 
the popular CP/JV1 to1 Operating System 
and available for a number of different 
drives. 

If Math Anxiety is you r af f I icti on , 
we also offer the muMATH-79 tm 
Symbolic Math System. Read about it 
in the August '79 issue oi z BYTE. 

Call or write us di rectly for more in- 
formation, 

©Copyright The Soft Warehouse 1979 




P.O. Box 11 1 74, Honolulu, Hawaii 96828 
Telephone (808) 734-5801 



pages 3 and 4 of the magazine, the 'In 
the Queue" and "In This BYTE" sec- 
tions. My program was referred to as a 
Fast Fourier Transform, or FFT. It ob- 
viously is not, and that choice was 
intentional (as you will see later). I 
assume someone on the editorial staff 
scanned the article, saw a reference to 
FFT, and made a simple mistake. 

One particularly long communication 
was that of Delmer Hinrichs. He states 
that there is a "disastrous error" in the 
analysis, and goes on to provide a re- 
vised program which, in one case, shows 
the energy in the eight-period sine wave 
to be concentrated at one frequency, 
and not the "wide smearing" my figures 
showed. I am afraid Mr Hinrichs fell 
into a trap which I intentionally 
avoided. 

The exact solution for the spectrum of 
an eight-period sine wave is well known. 
It is simply a "sine" function centered on 
the continuous sine-wave frequency, W 
(in radians): 



F(W) = 



sin[(W-W )X8ir] 



(W-W )X8tt 



A comparison of a plot of this expres- 
sion with figure 10 (page 28) will show 
my results to be in very good agreement 
with theory in the vicinity of the funda- 
mental sine-wave frequency (the 
discrepancy near W=0 will be discussed 
shortly). 

The sine function has many zeros and 
small peaks, as can be seen from figure 
10. Mr Hinrichs s program calculates the 
values for the central peak and the 
zeros. His program misses all the small 
peaks. It is no wonder that he concludes 
that all the energy is at one frequency! If 
all the energy were at one frequency, 
how would an eight-period sine wave, 
preceded and followed by zero signal, be 
distinguished from a continuous sine 
wave? 

The problem Mr Hinrichs experienced 
is typical of the subtleties embedded in 
many discrete Fourier transform (DFT) 
and FFT algorithms. Often the calcula- 
tion, by the way the algorithm is 
economized, implicitly assumes that the 
signal repeats outside the "window" over 
which the integral approximation is to 
be performed. A repeating eight-period 
sine wave is just a continuous sine wave, 
which is what Mr Hinrichs s calculation 
told him. I avoided these algorithms and 
just performed a simple approximation 
of the Fourier integral. 

I am just as guilty of believing the 
computer as Mr Hinrichs is. There is an 
error in the program of listing 1 (page 
14), and this was kindly pointed out by 
Mr H L Cunningham. For the sake of 
plotting, I shifted up the data, thus 



adding a DC component. The Fourier 
transform of the shifted data was 
calculated, and the DC component was 
subtracted out. However, the same sine 
function effect caused some energy 
spread into the frequencies near DC, and 
I did not correct for that. When you 
spend much time looking at frequency 
plots, you see what is expected. I saw 
the zero DC term and the smear near the 
fundamental frequency, and not the fair- 
ly obvious anomaly near DC. The pro- 
gram corrections Mr Cunningham has 
provided are shown below: 



Add: 681 REMOVE DC SHIFT 

682 FOR I = 1TON 

683 D(I) = D(I)-B 

684 NEXT I 

Remove line 810 and lines 1250 thru 
1280. The last statement should be: 



1240 RETURN 

These changes do not affect the 
discussion of the frequency-shift keying 
(FSK) technique used in cassette record- 
ing. 

I wish to thank the readers who have 
written to me, and I apologize for any 
inconvenience. 



F R Ruckdesc hel 
773 John Glenn Blvd 

Webster NY 14580 



BYTE Replies 

The description of Dr Ruckdeschels 
article as being principally about the fast 
Fourier transform was indeed a mistake 
made by a member of the BYTE 
editorial staff. We apologize to those 
readers who may have 
suffered confusion due to this error. 



A Dead Transformation? I 

Baron Jean Baptiste Joseph Fourier 
arose from his grave to award the 
Golden Bomb Award to F R 
Ruckdeschel and BYTE magazine for 
generating and publishing such "gross" 
frequency specta in the name of Fourier 
(in Ruckdeschel's article in the 
December 1979 BYTE). 

A quick glance indicates that line 300 
in listing 1 should use 2t(6.2831), and 
line 710 should read TO Kl where 
Kl = (N + l)/2. Even worse is the lame 
explanation for the "unexpected" result 
rather than finding the "bug." Since I am 
sure BYTE will receive many letters on 
this, 'nuff said. 



Sid Gear 

72 Heritage Dr 

Rochester NY 14615 



14 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 




The 
Masterpiece Machine 



AutoScribe 1 * and Your Microcomputer 



Word Processing Anyone Can 
Operate. Immediately. 

If youVe seen other word processing sys- 
tems, you probably find it hard to imagine. 
You know other systems require special 
codes and initials, secret words and annoy- 
ing pauses, before you can even think 
about creating copy. 

AutoScribe is ready to perform at the 
touch of a key. 

With just a handful of simple, logical key- 
board commands, the AutoScribe user 
rapidly learns to create, revise, generate, 
duplicate, edit, store and retrieve . . . effort- 
lessly and conveniently. 
Word Processing That Gets Results 
With AutoScribe, every document is a 
masterpiece . . . justified columns, letter- 
perfect correspondence, reports that impart 
the impact of a discerning professional. 
Performance? Global search and replace, 
block move and copy, infinite reverse 
scroll, page numbering, mailing list merge 
for customized letters, complete format 



flexibility . . . the traits of the most ad- 
vanced state-of-the-art in word processing 
are standard features of AutoScribe. 
AutoScribe puts word processing 
in Proper Perspective 
Word processing should be an effi 
cient, cost-effective business tool . . . 
not a mysterious and cumbersome 
operation requiring weeks of train- 
ing and highly specialized, expen- 
sive hardware. tajsT" 
Supported by lucid, self-teaching 
documentation, AutoScribe makes your 
general-purpose microcomputer into an 
easy-to-use but sophisticated word pro- 
cessor to efficiently complement your 
other business applications. 
Make Your Micro Into a 
Masterpiece Machine 
Put AutoScribe to work in your business 
operations. Now available for CP/M 

AutoScribS 



operating systems and Zenith-Heath sys- 
tems, as well as double-density NorthStar 
systems. AutoScribe is also available as a 
complete turnkey system, including: fast 
Z80 processor with dual ports and two 
disk drives for double- 
density and quad-density 




floppy disk storage, letter-quality printer, 
and professional text-editing videotermi- 
nal. 









See your MicroSource™ dealer for other powerful, user-oriented applications software: LedgerPtus™-the company bookkeeper, Bookkeeper™ — the office 
accountant, Money Beit" — the money manager, Time Keeper" — the time accountant. For the MicroSource dealer nearest you, call (602) 894-9247, and ask for 
Customer Service. Or write us at 1425 W. 12th PI., Tempe, AZ 85281. 

©1979 THE PHOENIX GROUP, INC 



Circle 6 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1990 15 



Further Reply from the Author 

Mr Gear's "quick glance" was a quick 
error. He failed to observe (as others) 
that a numerical approximation to the 
Fourier Integral was being performed, 
not a formal discrete Fourier transform 
(DFT) or fast Fourier transform (FFT). In 
this case, using a DFT (or FFT) would 
have given the wrong results. His com- 
ments would have been correct other- 
wise. The only bug which exists in the 
program (as far as I know) is explained 
in the response to Delmer Hinrichs's 
letter (see above). 

F R Ruckdeschel 



Information Requested 

Are any of my fellow BYTE readers 
willing to share information with me on 
interfacing microcomputer systems to 
the IBM Models 50 or 60 electronic 
typewriters? I would like to use my 
Model 60 as an output printer, and I 
would appreciate some advice, if any is 
to be had. 

Thanks very much, 

Michael Pinneo 
3757 Vienna Dr 
Aptos CA 95003 



Eclipsing Mechanical Pipe Dreams 

In looking through back issues of 
BYTE, I came across an editorial by Carl 
Helmers regarding the control of a 
camera with a computer. ("Computers 
and Eclipses," July 1979 BYTE). Though 
this is probably too late to help Mr 
Helmers with the February 16 event, it 
may be of interest to others. 

The mechanical interface described by 
Mr Helmers is dictated by his choice of 
camera body. The new generation of 
35mm cameras are mostly electronic, 
and therefore more directly controllable 
by computer. In general, there are two 
electromagnets. One releases the first 
curtain to uncover the film. The other 
releases the second curtain to cover the 
film. The time delay between releases 
determines the exposure. 

From here there are two approaches: 

1) Control the main release and the time 
delay circuit (this requires a speed- 
select code and a trip signal). 

2) Control each curtain directly, timing 
done by the computer (this requires 
only an open and close signal). 

To keep the hardware as simple as pos- 
sible, I would recommend the second 
method. Detailed information and 
schematics for a particular camera can 
be found in a service manual. (Available 

16 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



from National Camera Inc, 2000 W 
Union Ave, Englewood CO 80110.) 

A completely electronic interface has 
several advantages: 

• Power requirements are simplified; a 
major consideration for field equip- 
ment. 

• Solenoid and motor vibrations are 
eliminated; with long lenses and long 
exposures they would seriously 
degrade image quality. 

• Complete control of exposure time, 
including long timed exposures and 
in-between standard speeds. 

• Random access shutter speeds; you 
are not limited to one step up or 
down at a time. 

These last two features make the in- 
strument applicable to a wider range of 
tasks. 

William Earl 

363 Joe McCarthy Dr 

Tonawanda NY 14150 

See the Editorial in the March 1980 
issue. . . .CH 



Nose It All 

My comment concerns the smell (yes, 
literally the smell) of BYTE. When the 
December 1979 issue arrived, I sensed 
the same odor that one sometimes 
encounters in large discount chain 
stores, associated with plastic foot-gear 
and, no doubt, a rampage of other pro- 
ducts as well. As this substance, the one 
responsible for the odor, has brought on 
attacks of asthma, I gave the issue a 
wide berth, reading it only in well- 
ventilated surroundings for brief periods 
of time. I escaped without any obvious 
damage to my health. 

I assumed that, somehow, the issue 
had come too close to some offensive 
item while enroute to me, or that a not- 
to-be-repeated mistake had occurred 
during the production of the magazine. 
Alas, I was wrong, for the issue which 
just arrived, January 1980, exudes the 
same noxious particles /vapor. 

Perhaps I, alone among your readers, 
am overly sensitive to whatever new 
manufacturing process is producing this 
"air pollutant." In that case, the solution 
to the problem is simple and is up to 
me. However, I write in case there are 
others who are similarly affected by it, 
in which case the substance might be 
considered at fault. In fact, my reaction 
might be likened to that of the miner's 
canary, warning others of a potential 
threat. 

If you choose to, you are welcome to 
publish this as a letter to find out if 
enough others have been bothered to 



warrant removing the cause. It would 
certainly be a shame if BYTE were 
required to bear a legend devised by the 
Surgeon General. 

Philip K Hooper 
5 Elm St 
Northfield VT 05663 



Warning: The Surgeon Corporal May Yet Determine That 
BYTE Reeding Is Dangerous to Your Health. 



Seriously, the difference in smell is 
due to a change in printers that became 
effective with the December 1979 BYTE. 
Readers will observe an improvement in 
the magazine that took place 
simultaneously. The "What's New?" sec- 
tion of the magazine is now printed on 
the same glossy-paper stock as the rest 
of the issue, rather than on the 
uneoated, buff-colored stock previously 
used. . . .CH 



Reform = Neologism 

In language usage it often happens 
that one person's sensible reform is 
another's unjustified neologism. I was 
reminded of this by Philip Bacon's letter 
in the December 1979 BYTE, "Problems 
1 Thru Ten/' page 78. He objects to 
using numerals to represent small 
numbers within English text. His claim 
to have to mentally translate such 
numbers into words in order to 
recognize them seems amazing to me, 
having never experienced any such dif- 
ficulty myself. Nevertheless, if BYTE 
doesn't mind using a little extra space to 
spell out numbers for Mr Bacon's 
benefit, then I have no objection either. 

As a matter of fact, I would like to 
direct your attention to the far more 
abominable abbreviations recently com- 
ing into use for designating the fifty 
states. By the principle of ironic sym- 
metry I can expect that Philip Bacon has 
no problem with them. When I, 
however, encounter an address in the 
state of "MN" it is my turn to go 
through a kind of mental stuttering: 
''Maine? Montana? Michigan? Where 
the devil is that ZIP code directory?" 

It is obvious that the post office is 
pushing these state codes so that com- 
puterized records need allocate only two 
characters to name a state, whether two 
characters suffice for human intelligi- 
bility or not. This is the most blatantly 
dehumanizing misuse of computer 
technology that I have yet seen. 

Craig Busse 

Systems Analyst/Chicago Office 

Canon USA Inc 

140 Industrial Dr 

Elmhurst IL 60126 ■ 



Grnnpihic& 

The Paper Tiger puts mare bile into 

evenrthing You da 



The Paper Tiger strikes again. With a DotPlot™ graphics 
option that lets you make the most of your Apple II, TRS 80, or 
other personal computer. 

With DotPlot and available software drivers, : 

you can print screen graphics, draw illustrations, 
write block letters, plot charts. And DotPlot 
includes an expanded, 2K-byte buffer. 

That's not all. Every Paper Tiger gives you 8 
software-selectable character sizes. 80 and 
132 column formats. Multi-part business forms 
handling. Forms control. Reliable stepper- 
motor paper drive. Adjustable width tractor feed. 
Continuous duty cycle operation. Plus lots more. 



The Paper Tiger costs only $995. The DotPlot option only 
$99 more. But don't let these low prices fool you. Because the 
Paper Tiger is rugged enough to stand up to the 
most demanding printer-plotter requirements. 
[ m ^ For the name of the Paper Tiger dealer nearest 

^g you, call toll-free 1-800-343-6412 (except Massa- 
■§ chusetts, Alaska, and Hawaii). 
J| Integral Data Systems, 14 Tech Circle, 

Natick, MA 01760. (617) 237-7610. 



Integral Data Systems, Inc. 

Circle 7 on inquiry card. 








Using the Computer as a 
Musician's Amanuensis 

Part 1: Fundamental Problems 



It is the dream of many amateur 
and some professional composers to 
have a machine that relieves the 
tedium of writing down musical 
ideas. The notation of music is not 
terribly difficult to write, but it takes 
a number of years of practice before 
you can do it quickly and legibly. Un- 
fortunately, many composers never 
attain the goal of readability. 

There are several kinds of systems 
that might appeal to a composer who 
wants good-looking scores. One 
might be a display-based music 
editor. Picture the composer seated 
before the display, light pen or 
graphic tablet in hand, writing on the 
display much as he now writes on 
paper. The computer's editing power 
would just make the process easier 
and more efficient. This is fine for the 
composer who does not use a musical 
instrument as he composes, but who 
sits at a desk with pencil and paper 
and is able to write down musical 
thoughts without having to play 
them. 

Other composers actively use an 
instrument as they write, much as 
some people write prose more effec- 
tively by dictation rather than with a 
typewriter or a pen. It is this kind of 
keyboard-based system that is dis- 
cussed here. 

Most modern musicians never 



About the Author 

Jef Raskin's credentials in music include his 
years as a professional musician and music 
teacher. He is presently the manager of Ad- 
vanced Systems at Apple Computer, Inc. His 
personal music and computer equipment in- 
cludes a piano, a harpsichord, an organ, a 
Digital Equipment PDP-11, and three Apple II 
computers. 



18 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Jef Raskin 
Apple Computer Co 

10260 Bandley Dr 
Cupertino CA 95014 



learn to write musical notation at all. 
Many never even learn to read music 
(for example, at least nine out of ten 
guitarists are musically illiterate — 
however well they might play). I am 
always amazed at this lack of 
literacy, not only among guitarists, 
but also among other performers. For 
some reason, music teachers rarely 
expect their students to be fluent at 
writing one of the most widely 
adopted notations that mankind has 
invented. Once you learn to read 
music, then printed music from 
almost anywhere in the world is open 
to you. 

The notation of music has changed 
little since the seventeenth century, 
and it takes relatively little additional 
study to play from many musical 
scores written 500 years ago. The 
same is not nearly as true for certain 
spoken languages. 

(However, this is not to say that 
music notation has not changed at all. 
I have heard many pathetic perfor- 
mances of Baroque and earlier music 
put on by singers and instrumentalists 
who did not realize that today's nota- 
tion of music, while maintaining 
much the same appearance as 
Baroque notation, has often changed 
in meaning. The notation of rhythm 
in French Baroque music in particular 
is radically different from what it 
appears to mean to a person trained 
only in twentieth century notation. 
This problem is delightfully docu- 
mented in Thurston Dart's book, The 
Interpretation of Music, Harper 
Colophon Books, 1963.) 

There is an interesting parallel with 
computer languages here: when I 
receive a piece of music for the piano, 
written in Japan, I can read and play 



the music even if I cannot read the 
title and dedication. Similarly, when 
I have a BASIC program for my 
APPLE II computer, written in Japan, 
I can follow the program and "play" 
it on my computer, even though I 
cannot read the title or REM (remark) 
lines. I somehow suspect that BASIC 
will not last 500 years, but who 
knows? 

Why Use Computers in Music 
at AU? 

Most people expect at least one of 
four musical benefits from their com- 
puter: 

1. The computer as instrument: the 
system will create sounds and give 
the user new sonic effects and 
musical control far beyond the 
abilities of synthesizers now 
available — or do the same things 
simpler and more cheaply. 

2. The computer as virtuoso: it will 
be programmable so that it can 
play pieces that people are tech- 
nically incapable of performing. 

3. The computer as piano roll: the 
computer will capture the perform- 
ances of musicians much as a good 
player piano can, and will enable 
the recreation of their exact 
performance upon demand. Being 
able to do some editing is usually 
part of the deal. 

4. The computer as amanuensis: the 
computer will listen to a person 
hum or play a tune (or be attached 
to their instrument) and write 
down what he is playing. 

There are many other applications of 
computers in music, but these are the 
four dreams that most people confess 



CM-600 
Circuit 
Mount 



CM-600 $6.95* 
RW-50 $2.98* 

NEW CM-600 SOLDERLESS PROTOTYPE BOARD 

CM- 600 is a unique system for solderless construction of circuit prototypes, useful to 
both engineers and hobbyists. The CM-600 is a neoprene board 4i" (114mm) x 6" 
(152mrn) with 2280 holes on .100" (2,54mm) centers. Standard components 
including DIP's are mounted by simply inserting leads into the holes in the long life 
neoprene material. Interconnections are easily made using 20 or 22 AWG(0,8 or 
0,65mm) wire jumpers. Positive contact is assured by the ! elasticity of the hole, which 
compresses the leads together. To remove components or leads, simply pull out. This 
facilitates easy circuit changes making it ideal for breadboarding experimental 
circuits. CM-600 also features numbered rows and columns for easy reference. 
Accessory Kit RW-50 contains 50 pes of AWG 20 (0,8mm) insulated jumper wires of 
assorted lengths from f (13mm) to 4"(100mm). Both ends are stripped and bent 90° 
for easy insertion. In stock directly from 

OK Machine & Tool Corporation 

3455 Conner St., Bronx,N.Y. 10475 U.S.A. 
Tel. (212) 994-6600 Telex 125091 

v * Minimum billings $25.00, add shipping charge $g.OO 

^s^ New York State residents add applicable tax v* 



Circle 8 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 19 



to me. Most of the other applications 
fall into musicological, physiological, 
psychological, or acoustical studies. 
None of these applications will be 
discussed in this article. 

Item 1 (using computers as syn- 
thesizers or as their components) is 
being done all the time, with varying 
degrees of success. Popular music's 
use of synthesizers has often been 
quite effective, whereas the highbrow 
use of computers in music has more 
often had results that are merely 
bizarre. 

Item 2, using the computer to play 
conventional instruments, is coming 
along nicely — at least as nicely as 
can be expected. It has an interesting 
problem: a true virtuoso performer 
plays a bit differently each time. 
Different virtuosi play quite different- 
ly from one another. These differ- 
ences are called interpretation. 

Interpretation is one of the things 
that makes listening to live perfor- 
mances much more interesting than 
listening to recordings which do not 
vary from one playing to the next. 
Few people have even thought about, 
much less attempted to write algo- 
rithms to solve, the problems in- 
herent in getting a computer to 
"understand" a piece of music so that 
it can create a viable interpretation. 
Without the ability to interpret a 
piece, the virtuoso computer is 
trivialized to item 3, a piano roll. 

Some people have set up the com- 
puter to be an automatic recorder- 
player, in the tradition of the Welte 
Vorsetzer (roughly translated: that 
which sits in front) system of the last 
century. Player pianos effectively 
became extinct, and history will 
probably repeat itself with this idea. 
Who wants to have to maintain, for 
example, a piano, when a simple 
record player can reproduce the 
sound of not only the piano, but of 
every other instrument ever in- 
vented? Besides, the record player is 
cheaper and does not go out of tune 
as easily. 

But of all the dreamers mentioned 
here, among those least prepared to 
turn their dream into reality are those 
whose dreams turn to item 4, trans- 
forming played music to the written 
form. They are the composers of the 
future, whose musical ideas need but 
the invention of the automated 
amanuensis for them to become rich, 
famous, or both. They well may be 



right, but they are usually unaware of 
the subtle problems that lie across 
their path. 

Problems in Building the 
Composer's Aid 

Every now and then, I read about a 
company that has begun to manufac- 
ture such a device, normally found in 
the form of a piano with a computer 
and a plotter as peripherals. The 
trouble is, you will usually read 
about them but once. They are 
seldom heard from again, except 
when they announce some "technical 
difficulties" that will delay the mass 
production of their device until next 
year. I suspect that some of them put 



Musical notation contains 
both more and less infor- 
mation than is contained 
in the performance. 



the correct hardware together, an- 
nounce the product, leaving only the 
writing of a few programs to finish 
the job. 

Well, dear reader, that bit of pro- 
gramming is the job. I have no doubt 
that a successful device is or will 
eventually become available. Its exis- 
tence will mean that someone has 
come up with some heuristic solu- 
tions to the rather interesting and dif- 
ficult problems involved. As you will 
see, these problems cannot be solved 
in the sense that certain equations can 
be solved to give a definite, fixed 
answer. All that a solution to the 
computer-generated score problem 
can be is a more or less useful 
approximation, which will require 
human editing in most cases. The rest 
of the article explains why this is the 
case. 

Three Parts of the Problem 

First let us look at some of the 
technical difficulties. One portion of 
the job is quite easy, and another is 
not considered to be difficult. The 
third portion is nearly as difficult as 
climbing Mount Everest on roller 
skates. 

Assume, for the time being, that 
the input will be via a piano-style 
keyboard. Getting this arrangement 
to work is the very easy portion of 



A growing 
line of tools to 
expand the Apple 



Time events in four operating modes— continu- 
ous, single shot, frequency comparison, and 
pulse width comparison. Includes three 16-bit 
interval timers, plus flexible patch area for 
external interface. Programmable interrupts, 
on-board ROM, and much more. 

7720A Parallel Interface. Two bidirectional 8-bit 
I/O ports will connect your Apple to a variety of 
parallel devices, including printers, paper tape 
equipment, current relays, external on/off 
devices. Full featured, programmable inter- 
rupts, supports DMA daisy chaining. 

781 IS Arithmetic Processor. Interfaces with 
Applesoft, so you just plug in and run. Based 
on the AM 9511 device, provides full 16/32-bit 
arithmetic, floating point, trigonometric, loga- 
rithmic, exponential functions. Programmed I/O 
data transfer, much, much more. (Not currently 
compatible with Apple II Plus— check with 
your dealer.) 

771 OA Asynchronous Serial Interlace. Conform- 
ing to RS-232-C A thru E 1978 standard, this 
card wiU drive a variety of serial devices such as 
CRT terminals, printers, paper tape devices, or 
communicate with any standard RS-232 device, 
including other computers. Full hand-shaking, 
and fully compatible with Apple PASCAL! 

7470A W BCD A/D Converter. Converts a DC 
voltage to a BCD number for computerized 
monitoring and analysis. Typical inputs include 
DC inputs from temperature or pressure 
transducers. Single channel A/D, 400 ms 
per conversion. 

7490A 6«B IEEE 488 Interface. A true imple- 
mentation of the IEEE 488 standard— the 
standard protocol for instrumentation and test 
devices. Control and monitor test instruments 
such as digital voltmeters, plotters, function 
generators, or any other device using the 
IEEE 488. 

7114A PROM Module. Permits the addition to or 
replacement of Apple II firmware without 
removing the Apple II ROMs. Available with 
on-board enable/disable toggle switch, 

7500 A Wire Wrap Board. For prototyping your 
own designs. 

751 OA Solder Board. 

7590A Extender Board. 

■. \ 

701 6A T6K Dynamic Memory Add-On. 

Watch this space for new CCS products for 
the Apple. WeVe got some real surprises in the 
works. To find out more about the CCS product 
line, visit your local computer retailer. The CCS 
product line is available at over 250 locations 
nationally, including most that carry the Apple. 
Or circle the reader service number on this ad. 

Apple II, Apple II Plus, and Applesoft are trademarks 
of the Apple Corporation. 

-. i ;■ ■ M"i 

CCS makes the difference. 



20 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



We see the Apple 
a little differently. 









> 

-' ■'.' 









Ik' * 
if'. .< 






■ r t ■ / A, "■ /#r .. 



' .f/vf? 



ry?' a* ;/'. 



We see it as a good 
way to get things done. 

Apple has built a gimt computet We at CCS have 
built a great line of peripherals and components to expand 
the Apple. To do almost anything you want to get done 
with a computer. 

If you wattt to do business with an Apple, we've got 
tools to connect the Apple to standard business printers and 
terminals. Or to modems, for communications over tele- 
phone lines, with other computers, even with other Apples. 

If you want to apply your Apple to engineering, scien- 
tific, or graphic projects, we've got tools for high-powered, 



high-speed math functions, and fast, high resolution graph- 
ics. And tools to connect the Apple to lab test equipment 
like function generators or plotters. 

And we have tools to connect the Apple to the outside 
world, including A/D converters and interval timers with 
external interface. 

We make components for the S40G bus, the PET, and 
the TRS-80, too. We built our products to deliver hard- 
nosed value to the OEM, and to the inventor who knows the 
best, at prices that are unbeaten. 

To find out how much computer your Apple II can be, 
see things our way. Because for serious users with serious 
uses for the Apple, we've got the tools. 



5 



California Computer Systems 

250 Caribbean Sunnyvale, CA 94086 (408) 734-5811 



Circle 9 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 21 



Va r i-e t I o n 1 




Figure 1: A section of Beethoven's ''Variations on 'God Save the King" done on the computer. When done correctly, computer-drawn 
music is indistinguishable from printed music. Only the time signature reveals the computer origin of this sample. The author pro- 
grammed the music system that produced this in 1967. 



the problem. It is no great feat to be 
able to attach a keyboard to a com- 
puter — there is even an integrated 
circuit that does it for you (Intel's 
8279, for example). 

The minimally difficult part of the 
job lies in getting the computer to 
produce what looks like printed 
musical output of acceptable appear- 
ance (for an example, see figure 1). It 
will take an experienced programmer 
a year or so to write programs that 
can achieve a good-looking music 



output from a computer system, 
unless he has a powerful graphics 
system to use. For minimally readable 
music notation, you should figure a 
month or two for the programming 
job. I am not talking about drawing 
just a single melodic line, but drawing 
full scores with all the slurs, beams, 
and other complex notations that 
composers use. 

The very difficult portion of the 
problem is to go from the computer's 
internal representation of the key- 




presses to standard musical notation. 
The processes at the two ends are 
readily accomplished; it is the 
transformation from one to the other 
that is very difficult. 

It is difficult enough to go the other 
way, from standard musical notation 
to a reasonable performance: musi- 
cians find that it takes years of train- 
ing even to do that apparently 
straightforward task. But we will 
concentrate for now on the problem 
of going from the keyboard input on 
a piano-style keyboard to graphic 
output in standard musical notation. 

The first obstacle that deters many 
a hopeful attempt is the fact that 
musical notation contains both more 
and less information than is con- 
tained in the performance. To see this 
clearly, let's simplify the problem 
slightly. If we cannot solve the 
simplified problem satisfactorily, it is 
unlikely that we will be able to solve 
the whole problem. 

A Musical Instrument to 
Keep in Mind 

One of the simplest instruments to 
computerize is the pipe organ. Its 
keys are in either an on or off (down 
or up) state, unlike a piano, where the 
manner in which the keys are struck 
makes a difference in the sound. 
(Note to organists: in this instance I 
am not talking about tracker-action 
organs; rather, I am talking about the 
usual electromechanical pipe organ, 
which is operated electrically from 
simple contact closures in the keys.) 

Another important simplification: 
real pipe organs often have the ability 
to produce a number of different 
timbres or sound qualities. We will 
limit the organ modeled here to what 
organists call a single registration, 



22 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 









r 


fc -- 




k ,^fl^ 




i 


n 


> 


^U^ IM 








< 






' $ 






1 


m \ 


/ fv 1/ 


Iff 










1 ' 

1- .„- . , 




— 


m 


m 


mm 


— ~ 


~~1 


i 








7 
















11 






mg 


f 
















1 




li&kilfi 


m 
















||^ a, iNTSflK: DATA SYSTEMS] 


sifeM 






t 




i 


/ 


S| 


m 




,' " * ; ' ",: 


t 




P 


BP 1 






1 


■ 


■ 












■ 


■■■ 









The Honor Graduate 



There's been a lot of talk lately 
about intelligent terminals with 
small systems capability. And, it's 
always the same. The systems 
which make the grade in perfor- 
mance usually flunk the test in 
price. At least that was the case 
until the SuperBrain graduated with 
the highest PPR (Price/ Perfor- 
mance Ratio) in the history of the 
industry. 

For less than $3,000*, SuperBrain 
users get exceptional performance 
for just a fraction of what they'd 
expect to pay. Standard features in- 
clude: two dual-density mini-flop- 
pies with 320K bytes of disk storage, 
up to 64K of RAM to handle even 
the most sophisticated programs, 
a C P / M Disk Operating System 
with a high-powered text editor, as- 

*Quantity one. Dealer inquiries invited. 
Circle 10 on inquiry card. 



sembler and debugger. And, with 
SuperBrain's S-100 bus adapter, you 
can even add a 10 megabyte disk! 

More than an intelligent terminal, 
the SuperBrain outperforms many 
other systems costing three to five 
times as much. Endowed with a 
hefty amount of available software 
(BASIC, FORTRAN, COBOL), the 
SuperBrain is ready to take on your 
toughest assignment You name it! 
General Ledger, Accounts Receiv- 
able, Payroll, Inventory or Word Pro- 
cessing . . . the SuperBrain handles 
all of them with ease. 

Your operators will praise the 
SuperBrain's good looks. A full 
ASCII keyboard with a numeric key- 
pad and function keys. A non-glare, 
dynamically focused, twelve inch 
screen. All in an attractive desktop 
unit weighing less than a standard 



office typewriter. Sophisticated 
users will acclaim SuperBrain's twin 
Z-80 processors which transfer data 
to the screen at 38 kilobaud! Inter- 
facing a printer or modem is no 
problem using SuperBrain's RS- 
232C communications port. But best 
of all, you won't need a PhD in com- 
puter repair to maintain the Super- 
Brain. Its single board design makes 
servicing a snap! 

So don't be fooled by all the fresh- 
man students in the small systems 
business. Insist on this year's honor 
graduate . . . the SuperBrain. 



sinte3tec 
Cdata 
s systems 



2300 Broad River Road, Columbia, SC 29210 
(803) 798-9100 TWX: 810-666-2115 



BYTE April 1980 23 



Circle 11 on inquiry card. 



Hirea 

fast 

thinker. 




5 MHz CPU Card 

■ Intel 8085A-2 microprocessor ■ Hardware 
floating point ■ Performs calculations six times 
faster than other CPUs ■ On-board monitor in 
PROM ■ IK RAM scratch pad ■ Keyboard or 
RS232C terminal ■ Variable clock frequency 

PRICE— $850 

(California residents add 6% sales tax) 

Call or write Artec for details. 




^RTCCGLGCTROMOJhC. 

605 Old County Rd., San Carlos, CA 94070 

Telephone (415)592-2740 



meaning f he tone color (timbre) 

of the instrun innot be changed. 

This is not too a *e a limitation, as 
much of J S Bat, s nusic can be 
played very beautifully with only one 
registration. 

For the rest of thi d scussion, then, 
this simple pipe orga . will be a useful 
model of a musical instrument to 
keep in mind. 

Four Views of a Piece of Music 

Before proceeding with the musical 
and technical details of the most dif- 
ficult portions of the Composer's Aid, 
it might be a good idea to make sure 
that you and I are using the same 
terms in the same way. 

A piece of music, for this discus- 
sion, has four major embodiments. 
First, there is the musical idea, which 
exists in the mind of the composer. It 
may evolve as it is performed, as in 
improvisation; it may never be real- 
ized, or it may be written down. This 
last activity is termed composing. 

Second, there is the score, which 
is a written document (usually in 
musical notation) that describes how 
to play the piece. We will ignore the 
suggestive descriptions that often ac- 
company the piece, for example: "an- 
dante cantabile con moto appas- 
sionato," or as Fats Waller used to 
write, 'Tempo Basement De Luxe." 
The only portion of the score that will 
interest us for now is the collection of 
splotches of ink that, by their shape 
and position on the page, indicate the 
action to be taken by a human or 
mechanical performer. 

The third embodiment consists of a 
sequence of switch closures or 
keypresses on the keyboard. Such an 
embodiment is represented by a piano 
roll. On the organ, this embodiment 
can be represented mathematically as 
a sequence of ordered pairs, the first 
of which states at what time the key 
was pressed, and the second stating 
for how long an interval the key was 
held before being released. In prac- 
tice, these times need not be more 
accurate than to the nearest hun- 
dredth of a second (so long as errors 
do not accumulate). 

The fourth embodiment is the 
sound of the piece. This is what the 
composer primarily seeks. Many 
computer hobbyists overlook the fact 
that the score, the performer, and the 
instrument are just means to an end. 
Perhaps the ideal world would be one 



where the composer thinks up a 
piece, and some gadgetry attached to 
his head picks up these mental 
emanations and realizes them as 
sound — or perhaps disseminates 
them directly into the audience's 
brains. For the time being, though, 
we prefer to go through this last 
embodiment and hear the piece 
through our ears. Direct mind-to- 
mind music we will leave to the 
science fiction writers. 

Getting Tripped Up by Rhythm 

Now that we have our corner of the 
computer-music world carefully 
delineated, our model instrument 
chosen, and the stipulation made 
that it is not difficult to have a 
computer read a keyboard and pro- 
duce musical notation, let's look at 
some of the more difficult aspects. 
One such aspect is having the com- 
puter proceed from its reading of the 
keyboard to the production of writ- 
ten musical notation. 

If, due to someone's inspiration, 
what I am about to declare as being 
difficult to do turns out to be easy, I 
will be delighted. But read on and 
find out why it may be difficult. 

A piece of music that consists of 
only one note played at a time (a 
simple melody) can be captured by 
the computer by simply storing the 
time at which the note begins, and 
then storing the length of the time 
interval that the note continues to 
sound. It is convenient to measure 
these times in hundredths of a second. 
It is also convenient to say, by con- 
vention, that the time the first note 
begins is called time 0. 

For example, if the first note lasts 1 
second, we say that it starts at time 0, 
and has a length of 100. If the second 
note starts half a second after the first 
note stops and is half a second in 
duration, then we say that it starts at 
time 150 and has a length of 50. 

The rate of playing a musical piece, 
its tempo, is given in terms of 
Maelzel's metronome markings: the 
number of notes of a given metrical 
type (such as quarter or eighth notes) 
that are to be played in 1 minute. 
Incidentally, since the metronome 
was not available until after 1816, 
tempi of pieces composed before that 
date can rarely be ascertained with 
any assured accuracy. 

Figure 2 presents the notation that 
tells us to play exactly 120 quarter 



24 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Now! North Star 

Application Software! 






North Star now offers application 
software for use on the HORIZON! 
Now you have one reliable source 
for both hardware and software 
needs! The first packages avail- 
able are: 

North Word— 

NorthWord is a simple-to-operate. 
word processing system designed 
for use with the popular North Star 
HORIZON. NorthWord enables you 
to increase office efficiency and cut 
document typing time and cost. 
NorthWord incorporates the most 
sought-after word processing fea- 
tures: easy editing, on-screen text 
formatting, simultaneous document 
printing, and much more. NorthWord 
can be integrated with other North 
Star software packages to produce 
customized letters, labels and 
reports quickly and efficiently. 




MailManager — 

MailManager enables you to com- 
pile and maintain complete organ- 
ized mailing lists. Lists are easily 
accessible and can be compiled 
with a great deal of flexibility. Entries, 
corrections and deletions are easily 
made. The North Star MailManager 
can print your list on individual enve- 
lopes, on mailing labels, or in com- 
pact summary form. 

InfoManager— 

InfoManager is a powerful list- 
oriented, data management system. 
It will accept up to 50 categories of 
information for each record and has 
the ability to select and sort before 
printing. The North Star InfoManager 
has power and flexibility for many 
applications: product inquiry, in- 
ventory, customer/client records, 
calendar reminders, and as an easy 
way to fill in often-used forms. 



GeneralLedger — 

General Ledger and Financial 
Reporting, two programs in one, 
maintains general ledger accounts 
based on such input as checks, 
bank deposits and journal entries, 
and uses the information in the 
general ledger to produce custom- 
ized financial statements and 
financial reports. 

NorthWord is the central building 
block for all the North Star applica- 
tion software to follow. Packages 
now being tested include other 
accounting and professional appli- 
cation packages. For more informa- 
tion or a demonstration, contact 
your local North Star dealer. 



NorthStaf 

North Star Computers, Inc. 
1440 Fourth Street 
Berkeley, CA 94710 
(415) 527-6950 
TWX/Telex 910-366-7001 



* 






NorthSfar 



* 



NortfWxd 



notes in 1 minute. Each quarter note 
will have a length of 50/100 of a 
second. 

The first significant problem occurs 
right here. Have a person using a 
metronome play on some instrument 
six quarter notes, in succession, at 



this tempo. There is no difficulty in 
having the computer find when and 
for how long each note is played. The 
resulting data might well look like the 
data in table 1, which came from an 
experiment conducted with a push- 
button switch attached to my Apple 



J = 120 



I 



Figure 2: Markings for tempo. The notation above and to the right of the treble clef tells 
us to play this musical passage at a rate such that 120 quarter notes can be played in 1 
minute. 



1 



120 



m 



Figure 3: Music notation for six equal quarter notes. When a human player tries to play 
these notes, the results, as strictly interpreted by an unsophisticated computer program, 
may be interpreted differently. See figure 4. 



^m 



7 J 1 - 7 J 7 * I ~^ f 



^m 



Figure 4: Possible computer interpretation of six quarter notes. When the keystrokes 
entered by a human attempting to play six notes of equal duration are interpreted, even 
a fairly good computer program might interpret them as something quite different. The 
notes here are: a dotted eighth and a sixteenth rest (two times); a eighth note and an 
eighth rest; a dotted sixteenth note, a thirty-second rest, and an eighth rest; an eighth 
note, a thirty-second rest, and an eighth rest; a dotted eighth note, a sixteenth rest, and 
a thirty -second rest. 





Starting 


Note 




Time 


Length 


ote 


(1/1 00s) 


(1/100s) 


1 





32 


2 


53 


34 


3 


101 


37 


4 


167 


22 


5 


210 


28 


6 


268 


30 



Comments 

The first note started at time and lasted 32/100 seconds. 
The second note started 53/100 seconds after the first. 
The third note's starting time and length, etc. 



Table 1: Results of an attempt to play six notes of equal length. The starting times 
and note lengths, each measured in hundredths of a second, were derived from a 
computer program written for the author's Apple II. The program recorded the times 
a push-button switch was pressed and released. Any computer program that has the 
task of converting these keypresses to standard music notation will have to decide 
from the note length values whether or not certain notes are meant to be equal. 



II computer. 

The data was produced from the 
playing of an experienced musician 
and yet is irregular. There are two 
reasons the results from this very 
simple piece seem so ragged. First, so 
that several notes played consecutive- 
ly at the same pitch may be heard as 
distinctly separate events, the actual 
duration of each note must be shorter 
than the indicated length in order 
leave a short period of silence be- 
tween each instance of the note. Thus 
the length of a note will not be exactly 
half a second (50/100 of a second) 
nor will it average this length, but 
something less. In this case the dura- 
tion averages to 30.5 hundredths of a 
second. 

Another reason the note inceptions 
are not as regular as we might hope 
lies in the normal variations in human 
motion. The average time between 
the notes is 53.6 hundredths of a 
second. 

Now that we have the starting 
times and lengths, how would we 
notate the piece as playedl The player 
was thinking of six equal notes, filling 
a measure as shown in figure 3. But 
the computer heard nothing of the 
sort. It received a sequence of rather 
irregular numbers. It would require 
some clever programming to deter- 
mine that all of those notes were in- 
tended to be the same length. A 
moderately clever program might 
produce the music notation shown in 
figure 4. 

The program seems to be struggling 
to accurately fit the notes it "hears" 
into the pattern of 120 beats to the 
minute, and losing the struggle. 

Another Rhythmic Difficulty 

Matters become worse if the com- 
puter has to determine what the in- 
tended tempo is, just by hearing it. 
Even if the notes are played by a 
precise mechanism, no program can 
tell the difference between the notes 
in figure 5a and the notes in figure 5b, 
since they both sound the same, albeit 
at different tempi. Nonetheless, a 
human player may interpret those 
two notations differently. In fact, if 
we rewrite the six equal notes in 6/4 
time (as in figure 3) so that it is in 3/4 
time, the result is the notation given 
in figure 6. 



26 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



New on the North Star Horizon: 

18Mb Hard Disk Drive! 




II 



Horizon Computer with 64K RAM 
and dual quad capacity (720kb) 
floppy disks 






ISIisl 



m 



Up to four 18Mb Winchester- 
type hard disk drives 



Display terminal 



Letter-quality or dot 
matrix printer 



Horizon I/O flexibility 
allows expansion to 
meet your needs 



Unsurpassed Performance and Capacity! 

North Star now gives you hard disk capacity and process- 
ing performance never before possible at such a low 
price! Horizon is a proven, reliable, affordable computer 
system with unique hardware and software. Now the 
Horizon's capabilities are expanded to meet your growing 
system requirements. In addition to hard disk perform- 
ance, the Horizon has I/O versatility and an optional hard- 
ware floating point board for high-performance number 
crunching. The North Star large disk is a Century Data 
Marksman, a Winchester-type drive that holds 18 million 
bytes of formatted data. The North Star controller inter- 
faces the drive(s) to the Horizon and takes full advantage 



NorthStai^ 

North Star Computers, Inc. 

1440 Fourth St. 

Berkeley, CA 94710 

(415) 527-6950 TWX/Telex 910-366-7001 



of the high-performance characteristics of the drive. Our 
hard disk operating system implements a powerful file 
system as well as backup and recovery on floppy diskette. 

Software Is The Key! 

The Horizon's success to date has been built on the qual- 
ity of its system software (BASIC, DOS, PASCAL) and 
the very broad range and availability of application soft- 
ware. This reputation continues with our new hard disk 
system. Existing software is upward compatible for use 
with the hard disk system. And, with the dramatic increase 
in on-line storage and speed, there will be a continually 
expanding library of readily available application software. 
For more information, see your North Star dealer! 



HORIZON-HD-18 

Horizon computer with 64K 
RAM, 2 quad capacity mini 
drives and one HDS-18 hard 
disk drive $9329 

HDS-18 

Additional 18Mb hard disk drive 
for expansion of Horizon HD-18, 
or your present Horizon $4999 



SYS-1N 

Complete Horizon HD-18 plus 
80 x 24 display terminal and 
NEC Spinwriter printer $13,239 



SYS-1A 

Complete Horizon HD-18 with 
80 x 24 display terminal and 
Anadex printer $11,319 



Circle 13 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 27 



Circle 14 on inquiry card. 



RAYGA MCO 

JOIN 
NOW! 




BIG SAVINGS 

ON EVERY 

ITEM! 

Become a member of 

RAYGAMCO 

Computer Discount Club. 



£ jB o 



E 

CD _ 

- 9? t: 

- CO ■ 



CD 



cd 



C ffl >,Q 

5 « kO 

« -^ £ ^ 

C g (D< 

« a> = < 

"a > > CC 



cc - 2 2 
ill J 

1 1*1 

co o £ x 

> m CO I 









11 

"5 2 



cd co > 



^ u -t-* ,— 

a> 

.q 

E 

CD 



9?g £ 
if. 

^ >> 3 



o 



ii 



< 

$ = > s 

CO — CD « 

■§ i J - 

5J> ^ m Q- 

^ — E 

OQ a s o 



OO 

ll 

1 8 

o |° 

= On 

- O ° 

C o 9- 

.'off 

fill 

2 So 

CO o? 



q. 
N 









£ HO 

Hi 



o 
o 



o 
o 



E 

CD 



O 

CD 

a. 



CO 
Q. 



I 1 

-o P 



CD — 

^ CD 

o I 



CD CD Q. 3 

E S >, E o 

to x) -^ o 5 

z < o a _ 



TOLL FREE, EXCEPT CA 

Store Hours: 800-854-6455 

Sat 10-6, Sun 12-4, Tu-Fri 11-8 

RAYGAM, INC. 

6791 WESTMINSTER AVENUE 

WESTMINSTER, CA 92683 

TELEX 182274 (714) 891-2587 



28 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



$ 



¥ 



\) b b b 



Figure 5: The difficulty of determining tempo from context. Without some kind of ex- 
ternal reference (such as the tempo notation in figure 2), musical notation becomes 
somewhat arbitrary. Hearing only the note sequences in figures 5a and 5b, a computer 
program could not differentiate between the two. 



j 



= 120 



m 



Figure 6: Example of agogic accent. Although the notes here are equivalent to the notes 
in figure 3, a human player will likely accent the first and fourth notes (the first note of 
each measure); this is called an agogic accent. 



The human player is likely to make 
the first and the fourth notes from 
figure 6 longer than any of the others. 
This is done to emphasize them. The 
technique is called an agogic accent 
and is frequently used — especially 
on our organ, which has few other 
means for putting emphasis on a 
note. 

How is the computer to know that 
this phenomenon is accenting and not 
accident? And how is it to know that 
it should not notate the first quarter 
note in each bar differently than the 
others? Clearly then a program must 
have some information about the 
metrical structure of the music. I 
leave it to you to determine just how 
this is to be accomplished. If you re- 
quire human intervention too often, 
you might begin to abandon the com- 
puter altogether. 

If our organ is located in a resonant 
cathedral, the organist might play the 
notes even shorter, perhaps for only a 
quarter of their indicated time, and 
let the resonance of the hall fill in the 
rest of the note. In another instance, 
the organist might feel inspired to 
play a passage staccato for other 
reasons. (Staccato means playing the 
notes briefly, leaving silence to make 



up the time between notes.) This is 
well within the accepted limitations 
of a performer's rights to interpreta- 
tion. 

What is the poor computer to do? 
Try to notate in minute and scrupu- 
lous detail the exact performance? 
This might be interesting if we are 
studying human performance. But it 
is not useful here, for our goal is to 
create a score, which we hope will be 
playable by a human performer, and 
therefore it must not be encrusted 
with the myriad details of a particular 
performance. 

The more successful programs 
(such as Moorer's work at the Stan- 
ford Artificial Intelligence Laborator- 
ies) are adaptive and quite clever 
about imagining what the player 
must "mean" by the apparently 
strange sequence of timings that come 
into the computer in digital form. It 
would be a notable accomplishment 
for a programmer to get a computer 
to merely notate all rhythms correct- 
ly, let alone to solve the problems 
caused by details of harmony as well. 

Next month in Part 2, I will 
examine more problems that arise in 
using the computer as a musician's 
amanuensis. ■ 



clearly readable printouts 
clearly remarkable price 

The $ 625* Heathkit H14 Printer. You'll pay hundreds 
more for a printer with its features. 



Where else can you buy a microprocessor- 
based printer with the H14's features and 
copy quality for under a thousand dollars? 

The Heathkit H14 prints up to 165 charac- 
ters per second, one full line every two 
seconds, 

5x7 dot matrix and finest quality impact 
printhead give you clear, easy-to-read 
images. 

All functions are microprocessor-con- 
trolled for reliable performance and more 
efficient use of your computer. 



UPPER 



You get: 

• Standard 96-character ASCII set- 
and lower case. 

• Operator or software selectable line 
width: 132, 96 and 80 characters per 
line. 

• Compatibility with any computer having 
RS-232C or 20 MA current loop serial 
interface with handshaking. 

• Sprocket paper feed, with adjustable 
spacing, keeps paper moving smoothly. 

• "Paper out" and "paper jammed" sig- 
nals prevent loss of data. 



• Selectable baud rates from 110 to 4800. 

• Convenience of standard fan-fold paper, 
2.5 to 9.5 inches wide. 

• Chrome wire rack keeps paper neat. 

Price includes connecting cables, paper 
rack and ribbon. Just add paper and you're 
ready to run. And service on the H14 is 
close by at any of 55 Heathkit Electronic 
Centers throughout the U.S. 
Complete details on the remarkable H14 
are in the newest, free Heathkit Catalog. 
Send for yours today or pick one up at your 
Heathkit Electronic Center. 



Wbiae *^yZ, " — " -— ■ 




PPPF f^ATAI Or* See the complete line of 
men V./\ 1 ALWU Heathkit Computer Products, 
including printers, video terminals, floppy disk sys- 
tems and software, in the new, 104-page Heathkit Cat- 
alog. It describes nearly 400 exciting kits for your 




home, work or pleasure — all at build-it-yourself sav- 
ings. Send for yours today or pick one up at your 
Heathkit Electronic Centerf where Heathkit Products 
are displayed, sold and serviced. See your white pages 
for center nearest you. 

* I n kit form, F.O.B. Benton Harbor, Ml. Also available completely assembled at $895 F.O.B. Benton Harbor, Ml. Prices are subject to change without notice. 
fUnits of Veritechnoiogy Electronics Corporation 



Heathkit 

Heath Company, Dept. 334-644, Benton Harbor, MI 49022 

Circle 1f ; ry card, 



CP-180 



BYTE's Gits 



Stop, Thief! 



On Friday, February 2, 
1980, a burglary was com- 
mitted at the Cambridge, 
Massachusetts, apartment 
where David Mitton, 
secretary of the New 
England Computer Society, 
lives. Among the items 
stolen was the computer 
system that had been used 
to operate the Cambridge 
Computerized Bulletin Board 
System (CBBS). The follow- 
ing equipment was stolen: 

• Processor Technology 
Sol-20 Terminal Com- 
puter; 

• SD Systems ExpandoRam 
memory board populated 
with 48 K bytes of 
memory; 

• Potomac Micro Magic 
MM-103 modem board 
and telephone interface, 
serial number 1-1155; 

• North Star Minifloppy 
disk-controller board; 

• Two Shugart SA-400-3 
Minifloppy 5-inch floppy- 
disk drives, serial 
numbers A40096 and 
A93222 (drives were open 
and screwed onto a 
3 /4-inch piece of 
plywood); 

• Motorola video monitor. 

Readers of BYTE that have 
any information concerning 
the whereabouts of this 
equipment are asked to con- 
tact David Mitton by 
telephone at work 
(617) 493-3154 or at home 
(617) 876-8718. 

Personal belongings also 
stolen included an Advent 
300 stereo receiver (serial 
number JO-23821), a Sanyo 
625 turntable (serial number 
66119191), and a Raleigh 
Super Course ten-speed 
bicycle (serial number 
250525, brown with 
handlebar gear shifters). 



T C F Rides Again 

The Trenton Computer 
Festival (TCF) (the original 



32 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Personal Computer show) 
will take place on April 19 
and 20 1980. 

The fifth annual Festival 
will last for two full days, 
with a 5-acre outdoor flea 
market and indoor commer- 
cial exhibitor area for up to 
ninety booths. There will be 
thirty speakers, user group 
sessions, and demonstra- 
tions, as well as hundreds of 
door prizes. 

Computer conference ses- 
sions and forums will be 
held on microcomputers in 
the home, education, 
medicine, amateur radio, 
music and the arts. There 
will be user group sessions 
on Saturday and special 
tutorial sessions for the 
general public and novice on 
Sunday. 

It is expected that atten- 
dance will exceed 9000, up 
from 6000 last year. There is 
free parking for 5000 cars. 
There will be a Saturday 
night banquet with noted 
guest speakers. 

TCF-80 will be held at 
Trenton State College, just 
outside of Trenton, New 
Jersey, convenient to New 
York City, Philadelphia, and 
Baltimore. 

Admission is $5 for the 
two days ($2 for students). 
The Saturday night banquet 
is $10. Flea Market spots are 
$5 per day. 

TCF-80 is a nonprofit 
undertaking and is spon- 
sored by: the Amateur 
Computer Group of New 
Jersey, the Philadelphia Area 
Computer Society, the Tren- 
ton State College Computer 
Society, the Institute of Elec- 
trical and Electronics 
Engineers— Princeton Sec- 
tion, and the Department of 
Engineering Technology, 
Trenton State College. 



The $300 Hand-Held 
Coconut 

A little-known fact about 
Hewlett-Packard is that 
most of its computer pro- 
ducts visible to the average 



person have come from the 
same division. This branch 
of Hewlett-Packard began in 
Cupertino, California, under 
the name of the Advanced 
Products Division (APD). In 
mid-1976, APD changed its 
name to the Corvallis Divi- 
sion, when it moved to its 
current location in Corvallis, 
Oregon. 

In 1972, APD started the 
calculator boom with the in- 
troduction of the HP-35, 
which was the first hand- 
held calculator that could 
entirely replace the (then) 
common engineer's slide 
rule. In 1974, APD surprised 
an increasingly calculator- 
oriented world with the in- 
troduction of the HP-65, the 
first user-programmable 
calculator with magnetic 
card storage. 

The Corvallis Division has 
continued its orientation 
toward the personal user 
since its name and location 
change in 1976. Even before 
the move to Corvallis was 
made (some three years 
before the introduction of 
the first product), Hewlett- 
Packard had already devised 
the code names of two 
already-planned products, 
known internally as 
Capricorn and Coconut. 

The Capricorn, Hewlett- 
Packard's desktop computer 
(officially named the 
HP-85), has become a 
popular name by which the 
product is known. (For a 
review of the computer, see 
Christopher Morgan's article 
in the March 1980 BYTE, 
"Hewlett-Packard's New 
Personal Computer, The 
HP-85.") However, it was 
only recently discovered 
that the other name, 
"Coconut," referred to the 
HP-41C, the extended- 
function hand-held program- 
mable calculator introduced 
by the Corvallis Division 
last July. 

Hewlett-Packard has a 
large semiconductor produc- 
tion line at the Corvallis 
plant; this facility is largely 



being used to produce 
custom integrated circuits 
and liquid-crystal displays 
(LCDs) used in the HP-41C. 
The Corvallis plant also 
manufactures a number of 
parts for the HP-85 com- 
puter. 

Computer Camp 

Children can sign up for 
an overnight camp in 
Moodus, Connecticut, 
where this summer's main 
activity will be computers. 
This recreational and educa- 
tional experience is directed 
by Fairfield University pro- 
fessor Dr Michael Zabinski. 
One week is planned from 
June 29 to July 4. The 
campers, ages ten to seven- 
teen, will have small group 
instruction along with mini- 
computers and microcom- 
puters for hands-on experi- 
ence. The camp is for 
children of all levels of 
experience. In addition to 
computers, the campers will 
have the facilities of the 
Grand View Lodge including 
swimming and tennis. For 
further information, contact 
Dr Michael Zabinski PhD, 
(203) 795-9069, or write, 
Computer Camp, Grand 
View Lodge, POB 22, 
Moodus CT 06469. 

Drive Through Order 
Verification Screen 

If you have ever ordered 
a hamburger and f rench fries 
at a drive-through res- 
taurant, then waited 
patiently only to receive a 
jar of horseradish and a 
pound of onions, you now 
have the ability to stop the 
problem before it begins. 
Scan-Data Corp, 800 E Main 
St, Norristown PA 19401, 
has developed the Positran 
Fast Food System which 
eliminates mistakes by 
allowing customers to view 
their order on a video screen 
as it is being placed. The 
system has been tested at 
restaurants around the 
country. ■ 



m: 



■ ■ 



^ ******** *4* 

#4**##*#4«**«###**##«#*#«* • ,4*******4* 44***4* 

■>***'*4****44*i4*+44**H**44.i ******** **4***r*4$4**** 

» i *4****44****4*>$*4 44* *<#»# «#» f f |f § # « » 1 444******4* 4 - 



M'itw - < t %mmt 



222582221 




^UUIMft? 



i pi! 








OHIO SCIENTIFIC 

I Professional 
f v ♦ Computers 

^Jjyr The Challenger Line 



•x. 



BH 



Ohio Scientific 
Microcomputers for all reasons 



Ohio Scientific has been building 
microcomputers longer than any com- 
pany currently in the personal computer 
and small business computer market- 
place. The company features a uniquely 
broad line of computer systems and in- 
terchangeable accessories. Ohio Scien- 
tific computer models range from the 
$279 Superboard II which is the lowest 
cost complete computer on the market to 
the world's most powerful microcom- 
puter; the C3-B GT which features a 74 
million byte, 10 millisecond access disk 
and a 300 nanosecond instruction cycle 
processor. Ohio Scientific computer 
products are sold and supported by a 
world-wide network of over 350 computer 
dealers. The product line featured in 
this brochure is Ohio 
Scientific's professional 
series computers, software 
and accessories. All 
machines in this brochure 
incorporate dual 8" floppy 
disk drives and utilize the 
OSI 48 line BUS architec- 
ture of modular inter- 
changeable PC cards. This 
architecture allows easy 
servicing, modification and 
upgrading. All machines in 
this brochure have internal 
firmware for instant disk 
loading and diagnostic 
testing and come complete 
with connecting cables, 
operating manuals and OS- 
65D disk operating system 
with extended BASIC so 
they can be utilized 

immediately when delivered by connec- 
tion to a standard RS-232 terminal. 

Business 

The most popular use of Ohio Scientific 
professional computers is in small 
business accounting. The minimum con- 
figuration of each computer has dual 8" 
floppies, 48K bytes of RAM and an 
RS-232 port making each computer 
usable in business applications as 
delivered. All Ohio Scientific machines 
can operate as single-user, stand alone 
computers, but by simply adding one 
PC board, they can also be used as 
intelligent terminals in a distributed 
processing network. Business software 
includes an advanced BASIC operating 
system; OS-65U which features end user 
operating ease and security as well as 
highly advanced file structures and com- 
munications protocols. OS-65U is unique 
in that programs written in this operating 
language are immediately upward com- 



32b BYTE April 1980 



patible from single-user floppy systems 
to multi-user timeshare and/or distributed 
processing networks with hundreds of 
megabytes of hard disk. Specific 
business applications software include a 
complete word processor for use on any 
professional series computer (WP-2), a 
family of conventional fully integrated 
accounting systems (OS-AMCAP) and a 
highly advanced data base manager and 
information management system (OS- 
DMS). DMS based applications modules 
range from simple general accounting 
packages to Construction Quotation, 
Medical and Legal billing systems in 
stand alone and/or integrated single-user, 
multi-user and network compatible con- 
figurations. The data base structure of 




RESEARCH AND 
IHVIXOI>MI-M 



these packages allows a high degree of 
end user customization without program- 
ming through use of powerful general 
purpose report writers, mathematical 
packages and an on-line query facility. 

Education 

Ohio Scientific personal computers are 
very popular in general education. The 
professional series offers capabilities for 
advanced educational use. Ohio Scien- 
tific's C1 P and C4P series computers can 
be connected to a C2 or C3 computer to 
utilize its floppy disk and printer, and to 
allow teacher monitoring and com- 
munications under OS-65U Level 1 
operating system. 
The Challenger Ill's unique three- 
processor architecture provides oppor- 
tunities for students to compare archi- 
tecture, machine code, assemblers and 
upper level languages for three types of 
processors on one machine. OS-CP/M 



further'provides a wide range of language 
capabilities including BASIC, FORTRAN, 
COBOL, PASCAL, APL, FORTH, ALGOL 
and others. Ohio Scientific's broad range 
of compatible accessories include a 
solderless interface prototyping board, a 
high speed analog I/O module and a 
PROM blaster for use in hardware labs. 
OSI's home security and control I/O, 
unique voice I/O, and new telephone in- 
terface coupled with the fast access high 
capacity CD-74 hard disk provide unique 
opportunities for advanced computer 
science investigations on an educational 
budget. 

Research and Development 

The C2 and C3 series com- 
puters feature the most 
advanced 6500 family 
operating system and ar- 
chitecture complemented 
by a fast resident inter- 
active assembler/editor, 
on-line debugger and op- 
tional PROM blaster 
capability. The C3 extends 
this development system 
capabilities to the 6800 and 
Z80 family by nature of its 
three-processor architec- 
ture. Ohio Scientific's 
broad range of plug com- 
patible accessories include 
a unique voice recognition 
breadboard, a powerful 
Votrax" based voice output 
system, a general purpose 
telephone interface, a fast 
analog I/O module, very 
fast high storage capacity hard disks, 
and computer network capabilities. 
These leading edge technology products 
provide opportunities for advanced ar- 
chitectural investigations and develop- 
ment without extensive hardware 
modifications. To further enhance the 
C3's usefulness in R/D applications, the 
company is currently developing a 
68000/Z8000 CPU expander board which 
is designed to plug-in to existing C3 
series computer systems. 



OEM 

Ohio Scientific's broad line of plug- 
compatible products and mass produc- 
tion economies provide a tremendous 
cost/performance benefit to both original 
equipment manufacturers and "systems 
houses". 

Contact your local dealer or the factory 
for OEM contract details on computers, 
accessories, complete systems and/or 
subassemblies. 








The C2-0EM with cover off showing the placement of 
floppy drives, UL recognized power supplies and 8-slot 
OSI 48 BUS backplane. 



Ohio Scientific's new C2-OEM is designed to be the cost effective 
solution to business and industrial applications which can effectively 
utilize typical microcomputer execution speed. The C2-OEM benefits 
from Ohio Scientific's years of volume microcomputer production 
experience yielding an extremely competitively priced medium 
performance microcomputer. 

The C2-OEM utilizes the popular 6502 microprocessor operated at 
1 MHz clock speed in conjunction with 48K or 450 NS Dynamic RAM 
memory. 

This hardware configuration when used in conjunction with Ohio 
Scientific's ultra fast BASIC by Microsoft yields Business 
environment performance equal to or better than competitive 
microcomputer systems. 

The C2-OEM is housed in a versatile table top cabinet which can also 
be rack mounted or incorporated in a matching desk which also 
accommodates a CRT terminal and printer. 

The system features very simple physical construction and the use of 
industry standard parts for reliable operation and simple servicing. 
All circuitry is on two 8 x 10" OSI BUS compatible PC cards, one for 
the 48K memory and the other which contains the CPU, Firmware, 
RS-232 port and floppy controller. 

The cards are plugged into an 8 slot back plane which provides 
tremendous expansion capability. The unit features two industry 
standard 8" Floppy disk drives and is powered by two standard UL 
recognized open frame power supplies. 

The C2-OEM's low cost, simple construction, standard performance, 
and factory configuration make it the logical choice when a simple, 
rugged "no problems" computer is desired. 

Features: 

Simplest, most cost-effective computer when typical microcomputer 
execution speed is acceptable. 

• Full business configuration standard • 48K dynamic RAM 

• .35 MIPS 6502 CPU • RS-232 port at 300 to 19,200 baud 

• Dual 8" floppies store 600 Kbytes 

• OSI BUS oriented for modular expansion 

• Fast low overhead disk operating system standard 

• Microsoft BASIC with random and sequential access files 

• Instant load disk bootstrap and front panel emulator in ROM 



Prices 

C2-OEM As specified above $2799 

Options 

-01 Double-sided disks doubles ca- 800 

pacitv to 1.2 Mbythes. 

-02 Internal video board and keyboard 299 

with numeric pad provide complete 
terminal function with upper/lower 
case and graphics within the com- 
puter (a low cost alternative to con- 
ventional CRT terminals). Just add a 
TV monitor for a complete low cost 
system. 

-03 Conversion to static RAM uses one 600 

more slot (2-24K boards) and adds 
4.5 amps additional power. 



Custom Desk DSK-5A 



-04 Double cases — uses separate 200 

cases for computer and floppies. 
Identical in appearance to the 

C3-S1. 

-05 OS-AMCAP package provides $875 

AMCAP V1.5 and OS-65U at a $300 
savings when purchased with the 
computer. 



use with 129 



Notable Accessories 

AC-3P 12" TV monitor for 
the 02 option 

CA-17 Plug-in board adds intelli- 298 
gent terminal capability under Level 
3 NET. 

DSK-5A 5 foot matching desk with slide-in 300 
mounting for C2-OEM, C3-OEM or 
C2-NET. 



Special System * 

C2-NET C2-OEM-04 with a CA-17 but with- $1499 
out the floppy disk drives. Unit has 
special "down load" bootstrap 
ROM which loads the operating 
system from a network data base on 
power up. Just add on RS-232 ter- 
minal for the lowest cost intelligent 
terminal configuration. 



BYTE April 1980 32c 



C )hio SciGfTtific 
Microcomputers for all reasons 



The Premium Performance 
C3 Series 

The Challenger IN family of computers is 
one of the most popular small computers 
in existence with tens of thousands of 
units installed to date. The C3 series pro- 
vides several unique features including: 

• 3 processors — the 6502A, 68B00 and 
Z80A 

• User programmable interrupt vectors 
on all three processors 

• OSI 48 line BUS architecture with 16 
data lines and 20 address bits (1024K 
address space) 

• Upward expandability to 74 megabyte 
disk drives 

• Upward expandability to timeshare and 
distributed processing configurations 

• Broadest line of plug compatible 
accessories in the industry 

• Broadest line of systems 
and applications soft- 
ware of any small 
computer (three 
processors is 
unbeatable here) 

• Fastest instruc- 
tion execution 
speed commer- 
cially available in a 
microcomputer 
(with GT option) 

The C3's Z80 supports Ohio Scientific's 
implementation of Digital Research's 
CP/M® operating system. This very 
popular operating system supports 
nearly a dozen upper level languages and 
hundreds of business, scientific and 
educational packages from several in- 
dependent suppliers. The Challenger Ill's 
4MHz Z80A processor, fast stepping rate 
floppies and large disk buffer size make it 
one of the fastest CP/M operating system 
compatible computers available. 



CP/M's excellent performance is over- 
shadowed by the C3's 6502A ultra-high 
performance processor which executes 
Ohio Scientific's OS-65D developmental 
operating system and OS-65U, a highly 
advanced business BASIC operating 
system with multi-user and distributed 
processing capabilities. The 6502A per- 
forms a memory to accumulator ADD in 
1.0 ms. and a jump extended in 1.5 jus. 
with an overall average of .7 Million In- 
structions per Second (M.I.P.S.) making it 
far faster than any other widely used 
microprocessor (including the new 16-bit 
versions). 




The GT option further extends Challenger 
Hi performance by utilizing the 6502C 
processor and high speed static RAM 
(150 ns. access) to achieve memory to 
accumulator ADD of 600 ns. and 1 .2 
MIPS average operation. This perform- 
ance level places the C3 GT models com- 
parable to mid-range minicomputers 
($50,000 to $100,000 price range) in 
typical business and other information 



intensive applications. Such computers 
are much faster in arithmatic operations 
because of their wider wordwidth but this 
performance advantage is not cost effec- 
tive in all but the most demanding 
number crunching applications. 



Upward Expandability 

Users can start with a relatively modest 
C3-OEM table-top computer and 
transport all of their software and most, if 
not all, of their hardware upward in 
simple plug-together expansion steps to 
hard disk storage, multi-programming — 
timesharing, distributed processing and 
finally, to an "office of the future" 
computer network. 



Versatility 

Ohio Scientific's plug-in options 
include the full scope of 
business accessories 
including a word processing 
printer, modem and 
matching furniture. 
Parallel I/0.A/DD/A 
capability, PROM 
blaster, clock and 
prototyping options 
satisfy the needs 
of the educator and 
OEM. 

Voice I/O, the 
Universal Telephone 
Interface, AC remote 
control, wireless security systems, 
affordable ultra-fast execution speed, 
network capability and huge storage 
capacity challenge the most creative 
innovators to develop the applications 
of tomorrow. 



32d BYTE April 1980 



The Challenger III Series 




C3-S1 




C3-0EM 




Family Features 

Premium performance 3-processor com- 
puter systems. 

• Full business configuration standard 

• 3-processors 6502A, 68B00, Z80A 

• 6502A operation at .7 MIPS standard 

• Z80A operation 4MHz, 68B00 opera- 
tion 2MHz 

• 48K high speed static RAM standard 

• 20 address bits with memory pager 
addresses 768K 

• User programmable interrupt vectors 

• 8-bit parallel I/O port 

• Instant loading floppy disk bootstrap/ 
hard disk bootstrap/front panel 
emulator in ROM 

• RS-232 port strappable from 300 to 
19,200 baud 

• Dual 8" floppies store 600K bytes 

• OSI 48 line BUS oriented for 
modular expansion 

• OS-65D fast low overhead develop- 
ment operating system with ultra-fast 
BASIC standard 

• OS-65U advanced business operating 
system standard 

• Largest accessory family in the micro- 
computer industry 

• Largest software library in microcom- 
puting (due to its unique 3-processor 
architecture) 



C3-S1, C3-OEM 

These two computers are table-top 
versions of the C3 system with a total of 
eight OSI BUS slots. They are ideally 
suited to applications which do not 
require hard disk drives and/or multiple 
users. Both systems can be enhanced by 
adding the GT option and/or dual-sided 
drives. They support OS-CP/M by expan- 
sion to 56K RAM and can be networked 
by expansion to 56K and a network I/O 
port. (The CA-17 provides network and 
CP/M compatibility.) The C3-OEM is a 
single-case table-top unit similar to the 
C2-OEM except for larger power supplies 
and can be mounted in the DSK-5A. The 
C3-S1 is in two cases which can be 
shipped via U.P.S. ( the C3-OEM must be 
shipped by freight). The C3-S1 's floppies 
can be independently turned off; a useful 
feature for process control and security 
applications. 



Prices 

C3-S1 



C3-OEM 



C3-A 



As specified above $4095 
with 48K 

As specified above 3995 
with 48K 

-GT Option Increases 6502 1500 
execution speed to 1.2 
MIPS average (150 ns 
main memory) 

C3-A 

The C3-A system is a 17-slot version of 
the C3 series in a stylish free-standing 
equipment rack. Although the standard 
machine has the same circuit boards and 
hence the same functional specifications 
as the C3-OEM or C3-S1 , the system can 
be directly expanded to 8 users, hard 
disk operation and a network data base 
node configuration by simple plug-in 
operations. The rack also accom- 
modates the PDS-1 system power se- 
quencer and Alloy Engineering cartridge 
tape back-up units. 

The C3-A features rack slide-mounted 
CPU and floppies as well as removable 
side panels and locking back door for 
convenient servicing and upgrading. 

Prices 

C3-A As specified above $5995 

with 48K 

-GT Option Increases 6502 execu- 1950 
tion speed to 1.2 MIPS 
average (150 ns main 
memory) and adds 
heavy duty switching 
power supplies. 

C3 Family Options 

-01 Double-sided drives, $800 

doubles capacity to 1.2 
Mbytes 

-06 OS-AMCAP package 775 

provides AMCAP 1.5 at 
a $200 savings when 
purchased with the 
computer(65U is stand- 
ard with OS's) 

-07 CP/M package requires 400 

CM-10 or CA-17 for 
operation. Provides 
OS-CP/M, Z80 

Assembler/Editor, 
Microsoft Z80 BASIC, 
FORTRAN and COBOL 
at a $250 savings over 
individual prices when 
purchased with the 
computer. 

-08 Real time clock option 100 



BYTE April 1980 32e 



Ohio Scientific 
Microcomputers for all reasons 



Winchester Technology Disks 

Floppy disks store from 250K bytes to 
500K bytes per surface in a series of 
concentric circles called tracks which 
each store 2.5K to 7K bytes. To access 
specific information a head must be 
mechanically positioned over the track, 
then the computer must wait for the infor- 
mation to rotate under the head. On an 8" 
floppy accessing a specific piece of 
information this can take as long as 1 .2 
seconds even though the computer could 
have processed the informaion in a few 
microseconds. (The access time of mini- 
floppies is much worse.) Furthermore, in 
most business applications, it is impos- 
sible to store all necessary information 
on one floppy disk; thus requiring several 
diskettes and frequent disk changes. 

The traditional solution to 
these problems is the con- 
ventional removable platter 
hard disk. These disks rotate 
ten times faster than floppies 
and use more elaborate head 
positioners to move from 
track to track as much as ten 
times faster than floppies. Hard 
disk storage ranges from a few 
megabytes to a few hundred 
megabytes. 

There are several problems with 
conventional hard disks. First and fore- 
most, the extremely high bit density on 
the disks makes them very sensitive to 
mechanical misadjustments and contam- 
ination such as vibrations, dust and 
temperature differences of a few 
degrees, etc. Attempts to use removable 
hard disks in any other than a big com- 
puter, air conditioned, clean room 
environment by other than experienced 
computer operators can result in expen- 
sive head crashes and the complete loss 
of a disk pack. The second problem with 
these drives is that since they require 
close mechanical tolerances for bit 
density, disk removability and inter- 
changeability, they are very complex 
mechanical devices. This results in large 
physical size, high power requirements 
and, most of all, high initial cost and high 
maintenance cost. 

Enter the Winchester: 

In the mid-70's a new disk technology 
was developed which eliminates most of 
the undesirable features of hard disks for 
small computer users; the Winchester 
hard disk. Winchesters 
utilize fast rotating high density disks and 
medium to high speed head positioners 

32f BYTE April 1980 



to achieve performance comparable to 
the most expensive hard disks. However, 
to minimize mechanical complexity and 
difficulty of use, they use fixed or non- 
removable media. Because the media is 
factory installed, the critical head-disk 
tolerances can be maintained with 
relatively simple mechanics. The fixed 
nature of the drive allows the disk 
chamber to be sealed eliminating the 
possibility of con- 
tamination. Yfii i 

Most Winchesters 
simply have an 
on-off switch 
making 




them even 
simpler than 
floppies to use 
from an operator viewpoint. In high 
storage capacity models they achieve 
the lowest cost per bit of any Random Ac- 
cess Memory technology now available. 

The Winchester disk solves all the prob- 
lems of floppies and conventional hard 
disks but creates one big new one! Back 
Up. Ohio Scientific has effectively solved 
this problem with three approaches 
depending on the specific application, 
see the box below. 

Ohio Scientific Winchesters 

OSI pioneered the use of Winchesters 
with microcomputers in 1977. Since then, 
we have installed more units than anyone 
else and have developed the most 
sophisticated Winchester hardware and 
software products for microcomputer 
use. 

Hardware 

Ohio Scientific offers two Winchester 
disks; the CD-23 and CD-74 (see next 



page) although they use different disk 
drives, the basic architecture is the 
same. Both units use a dedicated but 
programmable hard disk controller which 
receives commands from the host proc- 
essor and then performs disk transfers 
independent of the processor. Data 
transfers are to and from a large dual 
port memory buffer. The dual port archi- 
tecture and stand alone disk controller 
mean that virtually no processor 
overhead is required for disk transfers 
and that all segments of disk transfers 
are fully interruptable. Thus, disk 
operation does not degrade 
terminal interrupt response 
time in multi-user systems, a 
very important feature. 

Software 

OS-65U business operating 
systems and OS-DMS informa- 
tion management systems were 
designed from the "ground up" for 
use on Winchester based computers. 
Programs in 65U can directly access 
files up to 100 megabytes in length 
and directly support fast access tech- 
niques such as multi-key ISAM. 

OS-DMS, information management 
system, provides a high degree of intelli- 
gence and end user versatility by its ability 
to utilize large disk files whereas most 
small business computers offer bare 
bones operation because of the need to 
pack information as tightly as possible on 
floppy disks. 



Ohio Scientific Winchester disk based 
computer offer business users a dramatic 
improvement in total performance over 
floppy based micro and minicomputers at 
a relatively modest cost. 



You now have three backup options 
for use with the C3-B and C3-C 
Winchester disk based computers: 

1. Fast floppy dumper under OS-HDM 
for small files (5 Mbytes or less). 
Daily to weekly backup. 

2. 3M tape backup unit from Alloy 
Engineering. About 11 Mbytes per 
tape, cost about $3500. For 
medium files (Under 11 Mbytes). 
Weekly backup. 

3. Networked C3-B's and/or C3-C's| 
Ultrafast backup of files up to disk 
capacity for Large files (over 11 
Mbytes) and/or frequent backup 
requirements. 

(Prices and specs subject to 
change without notice) 






■ ■ 



Hard Dish Computers 






□D 



IJC 



C3-A 



C3-B 







■ 








1 • 1 JC 


[giiiiii 


j 


1 




I 3D 



on 



C3-C 



Family Features 

All standard C3 features including: 

• 3-processor CPU 

• .7MIPS6502A 

• 48K static RAM 

• Dual 8" floppies 

• Free standing rack for direct expansion 
capabilities 

• 17-slot OSI 48 line BUS architecture for 
large system expansion 

• Directly accepts up to 8 users with cur- 
rently available memory boards, more 
with higher density boards in the future 

• Directly expandable for use as Network 
data bases 

• Slide-mounted subassemblies, 
removable side panels and locking rear 
door for easy expansions and service 

C3-A 

The floppy only rack based C3 for users 
who anticipate expansion to hard disk, 
multi-user and/or networking in the 
future. Additional specs are on the 
preceding pages. 

C3-A $5995 

CD-74expandsC3-AtoC3-B 7500 

CD-23expandsC3-AtoC3-C 4500 

CA-16 heavy duty cooling pack 150 

(specify B or C) 

C3-B 

The world's most powerful micro- 
computer (when GT equipped). Features 
the highly advanced and extensively field 
proven OKIDATA 3306 Winchester disk. 
Some 3306 drives have operated since 
1977 without a single failure. 

Features 

• System boots from floppies or hard disk 
on power up 

• 74 megabytes end user workspace 
under OS-65U, 80 megabytes 
unformatted 

• Ultra-high performance disk 

74 millisec worst case access 
38 millisec average 

10 millisec access on cylinder 

(215K user workspace) 

8 megabits per second transfer rate 

• Simple on/off disk operation with 
elaborate internal protection from 
improper temperature, line voltage and 
controller failures 



• Features spindle brake and designated 
head landing areas for much longer 
operational life than the newer low-cost 
Winchesters 

• Highly advanced OS-65U operating 
system: 

Multiple level pass word security 

Multiple operating systems on disk 

Ultra-high speed "FIND" command 
for high speed string searches 
(Associative Access) 

Upward compatible with multi-user 
and network systems with full file, 
peripheral and communications 
arbitration between users 

• Expandable to CP/M operation by 
adding 4K (CM-2 memory) 

• Available factory configured for up to 8 
users and network data base operation 

• Comes standard with real time clock 
and heavy duty cooling package 

C3-B $12,995 

GT Option 

(asperC3-A)add 1,950 

C3-C 

A medium performance Winchester disk 
based system which provides the ideal 
cost/performance ratio in typical small 
business applications. The C3-C uses 
the Shugart SA4008 29 megabyte 
Winchester disk. 

Performance specifications, hardware 
configuration and software is identical 
to the C3-B with the following excep- 
tions: 

• 23 megabytes of end user workspace 
under OS-65U 

• 29 megabytes unformatted capacity 

• Medium performance Winchester 

240 millisec worst case access 

87 millisec average access 

10 millisec access on cylinder 
(11 OK user workspace) 

• Simple on/off disk operation 

C3-C $9,995 

GT Option 

(asperC3-A)add 1,950 



BYTE April 1980 32g 



Ohio Scientific 
Microcomputers for all reasons 



Multiple User Systems 

In applications where several terminals 
are desired, but most of which will be 
utilized for entry and editing (such as 
order entry systems), multiple user micro- 
computers are feasible. In environments 
where it is commonplace for more than 
one user to be processing information at 
a time, a single microcomputer may 
become annoyingly slow. A better con- 
figuration for such applications is 
distributed processing as discussed later. 

All C3 series computers will support up 
to 16 timeshare users under 
OS-65U Level 3 providing that 
the computer has a real time 
clock, sufficient memory and the 
appropriate communications 
ports. 

C3 computers utilize bank 
switching for multiple users. 
Each user must have 32K to 48K 
RAM and an RS-232 port. The 
host machine must also have 4K 
RAM for the multi-tasking execu- 
tive. The computer timeshares 
individuals by interrupting a user 
after a set time (approximately 
100 milliseconds) and bank 
switches to the next user in a 
"round robin" fashion. Bank 
switching architecture is not as 
memory efficient as techniques 
which use re-entrant code or 
swapping disks but is by far the 
fastest technique, requiring only 
a few microseconds of proc- 
essor overhead per switch, a 
feature which is most important 
in multiple user systems. 

Although OS-65U Level 3 will support 
timesharing on any C3, it is only recom- 
mended on C3-B and C3-C computers. 
This is because of the desirability of 17 
BUS slots for multiple user memory 
partitions and the dramatic performance 
advantages of Winchester disks over 
floppies. 

Networking 

In a distributed processing system using 
OSI microcomputers as intelligent ter- 
minals (local systems) most of the work 



load is handled locally. Overall system 
performance does not degrade under 
heavy job loads. Each local system per- 
forms entry, editing and execution while 
utilizing a central data base for disk 
storage, printer output, and other shared 
resources. 

For more demanding applications it is 
desirable to have several data bases, 
each with its own collection of local 
systems. Such an inter-connected set of 
data bases is called a network. Each data 
base and its local intelligent and dumb 
terminals is called a cluster. 




Level 3 NET 

OS-65U Level 3 NET supports this 
advanced networking and distributed 
processing capability as well as con- 
ventional single user operation and time- 
sharing. Level 3 NET supports local 
clusters of intelligent microcomputer 
systems as well as dumb terminals for 
the purpose of utilizing a central 
Winchester disk data base and other 
shared resources. The system also has 
full communications capability with other 
Level 3 data bases providing full network 
capability. 

Level 3 resides in each network data 
base. A subset system resides in each 
intelligent terminal. Each data base 
supports up to 16 intelligent systems and 
up to 16 dumb terminals. Level 3 also 
supports a real time clock, printer 
management, and other shared 
peripherals. 



Data Base Requirements 

Minimal requirements for a Level 3 net- 
work data base are a C3-C or C3-B com- 
puter system with 23 or 74 megabytes 
respectively, console terminal, 88K bytes 
RAM and a CA-10X 16 port I/O board for 
network and cluster communications. 

Intelligent Terminal 
Requirements 

Any Ohio Scientific 8" floppy based com- 
puter with 56K RAM and one data base 
communications port. 



Connections 

Intelligent terminals and net- 
worked data bases are connected 
by low-cost cabling. Each link can 
be up to 10,000 feet long at a 
transfer rate of 500K bits per sec- 
ond, and will cost typically 30c a 
foot (plus installation). 

Syntax 

Existing OS-65U based software 
can be directly installed on the 
network with only one statement 
change! Level 3 has the most 
elegantly simple programming 
syntax ever offered on a computer 
network. 



File syntax is as follows: 



DEVA.B, Local Floppies 

C,D 
DEVE Local Hard 

DEV K-Z Specific 
network 
Data Bases 



} 



unchanged from 
single user and 
timeshare 
system 



Each of up to 8 open files per user can 
be from 8 separate origins. Specific file 
and shared peripheral contentions are 
handled by 256 network semaphores 
with the syntax Waite N 

Waite N, close 

The network automatically prioritizes 
multiple resource requests and each 
user can specify a timeout on resource 
requests. Semaphores are automatically 
reset on errors and program completion 
providing the system with a high degree 
of automatic recovery. 



32h BYTE April 1980 



Time Sharing/Networking 



iNsnrt 



One Step at a Time 

Best of all, Ohio Scientific users can 
develop distributed processing systems 
economically one step at a time. A user 
can start with a single user floppy sys- 
tem, add a hard disk, then timesharing, 
then a second Winchester data base for 
backup and, finally, cluster intelligent 
terminals to achieve a full network 
configuration. 

Level 3 Support Group Factory 
Configured Systems 

Prices include OS-65U Level 1 but do not 
include 65U Level 3 or Level 3 NET. 
Machines with NET prefix have the speci- 
fied number of users plus NETWORK 
data base node capability. The NET- 
WORK partition can be used as an extra 
user through its diagnostic RS-232 port. 

For example, a 4-user system with net- 
working can be used as a 5-user system 
without networking. 

Network systems have ports for 4 in- 
telligent terminals (cluster ports) and 1 
NET port. 





iyiE=ii "1 




B^^ M - -1*1 MM 




INVENTORY ^^f Ml 1 K 
PURCHASING < — ' H 1 1 U_— 




B^^^BjL^S ■■■ 
BP^Bl 74M 




RbtfclVINB^^ BJ"" - ^ " 




SHIPPING | ■' 1 1 

^ ' 




B^B^"^B^^B 




^^mt^^^^mM oe 
B^^Bj r4M 


- ^Mg 



Time- 
share 
Users 



C3-C 
.35 MIPS 



NA 



$10,900 
C3-C-12 



11,700 
C3C-13 



12,400 
C3-C-14 



13,100 
C3-C-15 



13,800 
C3-C-16 



14,500 
C3-C-17 



15,200 
C3-C-18 



C3-C 
.7 MIPS 




$9995 
C3-C 



11,400 
C3-C-22 



12,400 
C3-C-33 



13,400 
C3-C-44 



NA 



NA 



NA 



NA 



C3-B 
.35 MIPS 



NA 



12.99S 
C3-C^ 



$13,900 
C3-B-12 



13,995 
C3-C-N3 



14,700 
C3-B-13 




15,400 
C3-B-14 



16,100 
C3-B-15 



16,800 
C3-B-16 



NA 



17,500 
C3-B-17 



18,200 
C3-B-18 



C3-B 
.7 MIPS 



$12,995 
C3-B 



14,400 
C3-B-22 



15,400 
C3-B-33 



16,400 
C3-B-44 



NA 



NA 



NA 



NA 



C3-B 

.7 MIPS + 

NET 



$14,995 
C3-B-N1 



15,995 
C3-B-N2 



16,995 
C3-B-N3 



18,200' 
C3-B-N4 



NA 



NA 



NA 



NA 



Note 1 . Uses 16-slols, 1 open, comes with printer and word processing ports installed. 



BYTE April 1980 32! 



Ohio Scientific 
Accessories for all reasons 




AC-7B 

CRT terminal for use on all OSI single and 
multi-user systems. Features upper/lower 
case 24x80 character display, numeric 
keypad, dual intensity, protected fields, 
cursor addressing and much more. $995 




AC-14 

High performance word processing 
printer. Produces typewriter quality 
output at up to 55 characters per second. 
Features quick-change ribbon cartridges 
and drop-in print wheels for 
interchangeable fonts. Prints up to 132 
columns, comes with friction-feed 
capability for stationary and adjustable 
width tractor- feed for computer forms. 
Complete with paper guides and silencer 
options. Produces proportional spaced 
characters when used with WP-2 word 
processor package. Comes complete 
with high speed parallel interface, cable 
and one print wheel. $2795 





AC-9TP 

A rugged moderate performance 
business printer. Impact printing at 110 
characters per second, prints 80 or 132 
columns across the page, has adjustable 
width tractors and forms stacker. Comes 
complete with parallel interface and 
connecting cable. $1250 



OSI Desks 

DSK-3 3 foot wide CRT and printer 

stand. $175 



DSK-4 4 foot wide desk. 



$215 





AC-5A 

Deluxe business printer. This "Top of the 
line" shuttle printer very quietly prints an 
entire line at a time using dot matrix 
impact technology. The unit prints 160 
lines per minute at a 132 character 
column width. Features upper and lower 
case, 12 programmable fonts, 11 pro- 
gram selectable form lengths and much 
more. Comes complete with adjustable 
width tractor-feed, high speed parallel 
interface and cable. $2950 



DSK-5 Sfootwidedesk. 



$250 



DSK-5A 5 foot desk with cutout and 

mounting brackets for C2-OEM, 
C2-NETandC3-OEM 
computers. $300 





DSK-6 6 foot wide desk (best for CRT 

and printer). $285 



AC-11P 

300 baud 

modem for use 

with conventional 

telephone handsets. 

Features unique originate/answer back 

capability which allows two similarly 

equipped computers to talk to each other 

as well as communicating with timeshare 

services. Requires an RS-232 port for 

operation. $199 



32j BYTE April 1980 



Microcomputer Components 






CM-9 



CA-10-16 



OSi Power Sequencers Turn Entire Systems On/Off From One 
Keyswitch. 

PDS-1 Switch panel for C3-A, B, C. Sequences CPU, floppies, hard disk, CRTs, 

printerand other accessories. $350 

PDS-3 Switch panel for DKS-5A desk. Sequences CPU, floppies, CRT, printer and 

otheraccessories. $200 

Memories 

CWI-2 4K 2MHz static for expanding C3-B, C3-C to 56K for CP/M and/or 

networking. $129 

CM-3A 16K2MHzlowpowerstaticstandardC3memory. $399 

CM-6 48K1MHzdynamicforC2-OEM and some timeshare systems. $549 

CM-9 24K 2MHz medium power statics usable in computer with booster supplies or 
highcurrentswitchers. $450 

CM-10 8K 2MHz static for expanding C2 and C3 computers to networking or CP/M. 
(C3only) $198 




General I/O 

CA-9 Centronics parallel printer interface with cable. 



$175 



CA-10X 1 to 16 RS-232 port I/O board. 300-19200 baud plus synchronous operation 
at250Kand500Kbaud. 1 portstandard. $125 

Each additional port. $ 50 

CA-10-N5 CA-10X port board configured for four cluster communications ports and one 
network communications port all at 500K baud for use in data bases. $349 



CA-18A 




Combinational I/O 

CA-17 8K 2MHz RAM and 1 cluster port plus 1 auxiliary RS-232 port. (Converts any 
C2orC3tonetworking.) $298 

CA-18 1 Centronics parallel printer port with cable, 1 parallel word processing printer 
port with cable, 2 RS-232 ports and 1 cluster port . $398 

CA-18A As above with 8K 2MHz RAM and 2 additional RS-232 ports (4 total), i.e., fully 
populated 555. $598 

See the OEM and R/D section for more accessory boards. 



BYTE April 1980 32k 



Ohio Scientific 
Software for all reasons 



OS-AMCAP (Level 1.5) 

OS-AMCAP is a fully integrated small 
business accounting system. The 
software package runs on any Ohio 
Scientific dual-floppy, double-sided dual- 
floppy or hard disk based 6502 system 
with at least 48K RAM. OS-AMCAP 
contains the following integrated 
modules using a common data base: 

General Ledger, including a complete 
user defined chart of accounts, cash 
receipts, cash receipts journal, cash 
disbursements, cash disbursements 
journal, journal entries, editing, 
balance sheet, trial balance and 
statement of earnings with complete 
editing for all of the above. 

Accounts Receivable with and without 
aging, aged monthly statements. 

Accounts Payable with and without 
aging. 

Inventory, including inventory analysis, 
inventory by vendor, inventory 
overdue, inventory on order, inventory 
re-order, and detailed reports. 

Billing/Invoicing and order entry for the 
inventory which will optionally support 
customer files with bill to, ship to, 
credit and customer mailing and 
monthly statements. 

Payroll 

For easy installation, the AMCAP system 
includes the AMCAP configuration 
program which automatically creates all 
necessary disk files based "on the user's 
requirements. An AMCAP training disk 
which is pre-loaded with information for a 
hypothetical company is also included for 
demonstration and training purposes. A 
250-page AMCAP Level II manual is 
included that describes Levels 1.5 and II. 

OS-AMCAP is designated by Ohio 
Scientific to be a small concise easy-to- 
use "turnkey" ousiness software 
package. OS-AMCAP has been in use at 
hundreds of locations for over two years. 
OS-AMCAP $975 

OS-AMCAP Level II 

OS-AMCAP Level II contains all of the 
features included in Level 1.5 in addition 
to many other significant and valuable 
expansions that are a direct result of 
many end user requests. 

• Divisionalization and departmentaliza- 
tion in the general ledger, inventory 
and payroll and all accounting journals 
such as C/R, C/D, A/R, A/P, JE and 
aging reports, balance sheet and the 
statement of earnings. 

321 BYTE April 1980 



• Multiple cash in bank accounts, 
multiple acfcounts receivable/payable 
accounts by division or department. 

• Listing of general ledger journals by 
from-date-to-date. 

• Enhanced order entry to include 
temporary inventory items, special 
discounts and special list price 
considerations in addition to credit 
memos and quotations. 

• Enhanced payroll which allows for up 
to ten miscellaneous deductions and 
multi-state payroll withholding tax 
includes payroll 941 form, W2 forms 
and check registers plus an advanced 
employee file editor. 

• Monthly statements contain inclusion 
of automatic overdue charges as a 
service charge on each statement 
which is ready for window envelope 
mailing. 

• Preset IBM compatible system 32 and 
IBM system 34 forms for monthly 
statements, invoices and payroll 
checks that are available locally. 

• OS-AMCAP Level II is available only as 
an upgrade to AMCAP Level 1.5. 

AMCAP 1.5 to AMCAP II upgrade $995 

{AMCAP is a trademark of American Intelligent 
Machines) 

OS-HDM Hard Disk Manager 
General 

The Hard Disk Manager is an end user 
oriented software package designed to 
allow multiple independent systems to 
reside on the hard disk at the same time. 
Each system can contain over 150 
program or file entries in its separate 
directory. Each system can be of any 
length from 600K bytes to several million 
bytes long. 

Any AMCAP, DMS or other BASIC 
programs that operate under OS-65U can 
occupy any system area of any length 
within the Hard Disk Manager. Provisions 
are included to easily transfer an existing 
floppy based system to any system within 
the Hard Disk Manager. 

Fast Floppy Dumper 

With the Fast Floppy Dumper back-up 
feature a user can easily and conven- 
iently back up on removable floppies any 
or all systems (programs and files) 
residing on the hard with the standard 
hardware. 

It takes approximately 1.3 minutes for 
each 250K of memory to automatically 



be placed on a floppy diskette and the 
HDM automatically prompts when one 
floppy is full and another should be 
inserted. 

Cartridge Tape Back-Up 

As with the Fast Floppy Dumper feature 
mentioned above, the OS-HDM package 
also contains a Cartridge Tape Back-Up 
feature. While this Cartridge Tape Back- 
Up is somewhat slower than the Fast 
Floppy Dumper it does not necessitate 
the operator inserting another floppy 
each time one becomes filled unless the 
size of a system on the hard disk exceeds 
the limit of the large capacity cartridge 
tape medium (approximately 11 mega- 
bytes). As with the Fast Floppy Dumper, 
the Cartridge Tape Back-Up is self- 
identifying and easily used by 
inexperienced personnel. 

OS-HDM $675 

OS-TMUM Timesharing 
Multi-User Manager 

TMUM is a sophisticated and advanced 
software package that manages the 
timesharing features available with hard 
disk based C3 computers and offers the 
user true large computer timesharing 
capability with Log-On, Log-Off features, 
account number tracking, connect time 
usage by account number and system 
plus many other inherent timesharing 
system characteristics. 

TMUM is designated to be used either in- 
house or with auto-answer modems and 
is thoroughly secure with non-echoing 
account number entry, system name, 
and classified password protection. The 
TMUM package is capable of accom- 
modating up to 16 users and one console 
user depending upon machine 
configuration. 

To accommodate a variety of different 
systems on the hard disk TMUM utilizes 
some of the multiple system techniques 
used with and explained in the Hard Disk 
Manager (HDM) package. This includes 
the ability to automatically back up any 
system of any size onto floppy diskettes. 
It also includes the ability to back up 
systems on the hard disk with the 
cartridge tape hardware now available. 

The TMUM package is capable of 
running OS-AMCAP, DMS and all other 
programs including BASIC programs 
written in OS-65U. 

OS-TMUM is available only as an upgrade 
to the Hard Disk Manager (HDM). 

OS-HDM to OS-TMUM upgrade $1095 



AMCAP/DMS 



OS-DMS 

The OS-DMS Nucleus and supporting 
business packages make up an extremely 
powerful Data Base Management 
System and Inquiry System that lend 
themselves to a wide range of small 
business applications. Generally, any 
collection of information of primary 
importance to a business can be placed 
in this system. To clarify the application 
of OS-DMS an explanation is necessary 
of a Data Base Management System and 
an Inquiry System. 

Fundamentally, a data base is a 
collection of data. The data can be any 
information that is of value to a person, 
business or agency using the system. 
The data may be as varied as real estate 
files, inventories, personnel files, or 
automotive sales. Typically, data is 
usually keptin filing cabinets, card files, 
desk drawers, etc. Information in these 
categories are prime targets for a data 
base management system. 

The operator has the ability to access the 
information of the data base in a manner 
which makes the data useful. The user 
has the ability to enter, remove, or edit 
information in the files to keep it current 
with present activities. The user also may 
change the order of information in a file 
to suit a particular application. 

When the operator needs information, or 
a decision based on information in the file, 
a report of some kind will be generated. 

The user, in some cases, may set specific 
conditions related to the report. Examples 
of conditions are inventory items over a 
certain amount, age analysis of accounts 
receivable or payable, or houses costing 
between two dollar amounts. 

The emergence of OS-DMS makes 
computers immediately usable for the 
untrained small businessman. The 
system finally brings the use of micro- 
computers down to the level of non- 
programmers. It means that virtually 
untrained computer users can take 
advantage of the speed and efficiency of 
a computer in their daily activities. 

OS-DMS Modules 

OS-DMS Nucleus 

OS-DMS Nucleus — provides the data 
base manager and information manage- 
ment system for DMS compatible files. 
Can be used to "computerize" any 
collection of information. Since it is 
written primarily in BASIC it can be easily 
customized for specific applications. It is 
also a useful maintenance tool to com- 
plement other DMS modules. $300 



DMS modules — specialized applications 
packages based on the OS-DMS 
information management system. 

OS-DMS — Inventory I and II 

Inventory I is designed to be primarily a 
finished goods inventory for manu- 
facturers, wholesalers and retailers. The 
system incorporates an inventory file, an 
order entry system, receiving program 
and shipping program. $300 

Inventory II is primarily a manufacturing 
inventory system which can be 
integrated with Purchasing system and 
Bills of Material system. These three 
packages collectively provide small 
manufacturing businesses with 
capabilities comparable to those found in 
MRP system, but with a higher degree of 
persona! control. The Inventory system 
maintains an inventory with average 
weekly usage, weeks on hand, weeks on 
order with a shipping and receiving (or 
stock room control) program. $300 

OS-DMS Purchasing System 

The Purchasing System complements 
Inventory II by maintaining a file of open 
purchase orders and deliveries against 
those purchase orders. $300 

OS-DMS Bills of Material 

The Bills of Material System interfaces 
with Inventory II and the Purchasing 
System and will provide bills of material 
for several levels of subassemblies. This 
program maintains bills of material with 
cost accounting and allows the user to 
break down any assembly to its subse- 
quent subassemblies, and ultimately to 
raw parts. This inventory explosion is 
highly useful for forecasting raw parts 
usage based on finished goods sales. It 
can also be used for inventory control 
applications to update raw parts and 
subassemblies inventories by the sub- 
assemblies and finished goods shipped 
out of a department. $300 

OS-DMS A/R,A/P 

Accounts Receivable and Accounts 
Payable system maintains accounts 
receivable and payables aging, detailed 
reports and customer statements. $300 

OS-DMS General Ledger 

DMS General Ledger System maintains a 
detailed general ledger based on a user 
specified chart of accounts. Also produces 
monthly statements including balance 
sheet and profit and loss statements. $300 

OS-DMS Personnel Payroll 

The Personnel Payroll system provides 
payrolls for a several hundred employee 



company including check generation and 
quarterly reports. The Personnel Payroll 
system maintains detailed personnel files 
for each employee. It contains general 
purpose report writing capabilities which 
can generate a broad range of manage- 
ment requested reports. $300 

OS-DMS Query 

The Query System allows the computer 
operator to make queries about data 
stored in DMS compatible data bases. 
The result of this inquiry can be a simple 
answer or the generation of a report. 
Additionally the Query system allows end 
users to specify fairly complex report 
formats and store these report formats 
under user assigned names so that they 
can be recalled quickly for future use. 
DMS Query system effectively allows 
high-level utilization of the computer's 
resources by non-programmers. $300 

OS-DMS Quotation Estimation 

The Quotation Estimation package is 
useful for providing quotations and 
estimations on tasks which are comprised 
of many well defined and often used 
sub-tasks and components, such as those 
found in the construction industry. $300 

OS-DMS Educational System 

DMS Educational system allows 
teachers to generate drills, quizzes and 
tests without programming. The system 
allows several forms of student inter- 
action. Grades and responses can be 
stored for teacher examination. Grades 
for an entire period can be automatically 
tabulated. $300 

Customized Fully Integrated 
Systems 

Customized fully integrated systems in 
the area of accounting, manufacturing, 
wholesaling, retailing and other services 
are available for multi-user timeshare 
and distributed processing based Ohio 
Scientific computer systems. These 
services are available through your local 
dealer as well as through the company's 
Level 3 Support Group. Contact your 
dealer for details. 

Specialty Applications 

Dozens of specialized applications have 
been generated by Ohio Scientific 
dealers and systems houses under 
OS-DMS including fully integrated 
Construction packages, Medical Billing 
systems, Legal Billing systems and a 
broad range of specialized information 
systems. Contact your dealer for the 
latest information concerning your 
specific application. 



BYTE April 1980 32m 



Ohio Scientific 
Accessories for all reasons 




AC-17P 



Ohio Scientific's 
Revolutionary New 
16 Pin I/O BUS 

Modern technology has made it possible 
to pack far more I/O functions on a com- 
puter board than one can practically con- 
nect to. Ohio Scientific has solved this 
problem with a series of remote "head 
end cards" which feature tremendous 
I/O capability and connect to the com- 
puter via single inexpensive 16 pin DIP 
ribbon cables. Thus I/O connection can 
be made away from the computer's card 
cage. 

CA-20 

8- port I/O BUS interface and calendar 
clock provides interfaces for 8 head end 
cards and a battery back up clock with 
hours, minutes, seconds, 1/10 second, 
day, and date. The automatically re- 
charged batteries will power the clock for 
months. $175 

CA-20A 

As above without clock $95 

Head End Cards 

CA-21 

48 Line Parallel I/O card features 3 PIA's 
and prototyping area $45 



CA-22 

High speed analog I/O module. Two 
12-bit D/A converters, 1 1 2-bit/ 8-bit A/ D 
converter with 16 channel input 
multiplexer. Factory configured for ± 10V 
offset binary user jumperable for other 
configurations. Max error ± 2 LSB. 
28,000 12-bit conversions per second. 
66,000 8-bit conversions per second, 
drift. -50 ppm per °C. Note, the CA-22 
can also be directly plugged into the 
computer without a CA-20, thus occupy- 
ing one slot. $598 

CA-23 

PROM Blaster. Programs 2758, 2716, 
2732 and 2764. 8 through 65K EPROMS. 
Programs and verifys from memory or 
other E PROM. $195 

CA-24 

Solderless interface prototyping board 
features a PIA and TTL I/O as well as pro- 
visions for direct user connection of 
devices such as the 6850 ACIA. Board 
also features 16 switches and 16 LED's. 
Has a large solderless breadboard for 
prototyping or educational lab exercises. 

$175 

CA-25 

Security and AC remote interface con- 
nects the AC-17P home security system 
and AC-12P wireless remote control 
system to C2 and C3 computers. $45 



16 pin BUS family boards should be 
powered by external means where 
possible, however, a few modules 
can be supported by the host com- 
puter's supply if necessary 




A home security system, that's wireless 
and includes a control console, a fire 
detector, two window protection devices 
and one door unit. Additional protection 
devices are commercially available. $249 



AC-12P 




Wireless AC remote control. AC Remote 
Control Starter Set includes control con- 
sole and modules to operate two lamps 
and two appliances via remote control 
with home control software on disk. Addi- 
tional appliance and lamp modules are 
commercially available. $175 

Process Control BASIC 

A modified 9-digit BASIC under 65D with 
commands that support the real time 
clock, time of day clock (CA-20), 48 line 
parallel I/O (CA-21) analog I/O model 
(CA-22), AC remote (AG1 2 P) and to a 
limited extent the UTI (AC-15V) and 
security system (AC-17P). $250 

Security BASIC — Use your computer for 
business accounting during the day and 
office and plant security at night! 

A modified BASIC under 65D with com- 
mands which support the real time clock, 
AC-remote(AC-12P), security system 
(AC-17P) and universal telephone inter- 
face (AC-15V). Comes complete with a 
library of security program 
demonstrations. $95 



32n BYTE April 1980 



HI ■ HH 



*i 



OEM and R/D Accessories 



!!■ 



iJil^ * 






CA-14A Votrax Voice I/O System 

This Votrax Voice Synthesizer module has the capability of generating English speech 
phonetically. The supporting software simply feeds the phonetic spelling of English 
words to the module which generates medium quality spoken words. This advanced 
Votrax system is capable of generating all English phonemes as well as four levels of in- 
flection on each phoneme. CA-14A also includes a voice recognition experimentation 
area which must be user populated. This experimentation board contains a five filter 
feature extractor with zero crossing detectors and envelope filters. The CA-14A in con- 
junction with the CA-22 high speed analog I/O module provide a complete voice 
recognition lab. $399 



Voice Output Software 

OS-Vocalizer I 

"Generation by Rules System". Runs under OS-65D or OS-65U. Accepts conven- 
tional English spelling and outputs the phonetic spelling to the Votrax module in real 
time. Also, will print phonetic spellings for use by other programs. $150 

OS-Vocalizer II 

Runs in one partition of a 65 U Level 3 system. Accepts normal print statements from 
other partitions (users) and vocalizes them in real time. Uses disk look up for the 
3000 most common words and generation by rules for words not on file. End user 
can add approximately 1500 additional words to file. Generates the most legible 
speech now attainable via totally synthetic means (i.e. not recorded human speech). 
Operates on a C3-B or C3-C with at least two partitions. $975 



CA-15 Universal Telephone Interface 

The Universal Telephone Interface provides the host computer with general purpose 
telephone communications capability The board can answer and originate calls, It 
can communicate with internal 300 baud modem in originate or answer back mode. 
It can also communicate with touch- tone and decode touch- tone. The board also 
has multiplexers to route spoken voice out to external devices such as recorders, 
voice recognition circuits, A/D converters and can accept spoken voice from 
several sources to dispatch to the telephone. The UTI can be used with touch- tone 
or rotary dial lines via its pulse code dialer. When equipped with a Votrax module or 
used in conjunction with a CA-14 voice I/O, it can respond with computer generated 
English voice output. The UTI is connected to telephone lines via a CBT CBT's can 
be rented along with the telephone lines from your local telephone company or can 
be purchased from your local dealer and connected in parallel with your existing 
telephone circuitry. $499 

UTI with Votrax CA-15B 

The Universal Telephone Interface as above with Votrax Voice module allows your 
computer to generate English speech phonetically. It also includes an audio 
amplifier to allow the Votrax module to be used stand alone independent ly of the 
telephone lines. $799 



CA-CBT 

FCC approved telephone line isolator for use with the UTI. It allows the UTI to con- 
nect to any conventional telephone line. Note. CBT's can also be leased from your 
telephone company along with the telephone line. $199 



See the next page for your nearest dealer. 



BYTE April 1980 32o 



Ohio Scientific Professional 
Systems Specialists 



ALABAMA 

Pelham, AL 
(205)663-1287 

ALASKA 

Anchorage, AK 
(907) 344-8352 

ARIZONA 

Colorado City, AZ 
(602)875-2451 
Tempe, AZ 
(602) 966-6440 
Tucson, AZ 
(602) 294-8700 

ARKANSAS 

Fayetteville, AR 
{501)521-8637 
Little Rock, AR 
(501)224-4508 

CALIFORNIA 

Anaheim, CA 
(714)991-3940 
Anaheim, CA 
(714)995-0224 
Beverly Hills, CA 
(213)858-0794 
Brea, CA 
(714)990-3051 
Costa Mesa, CA 
(714)540-5222 
Fresno, CA 
(209) 485-3340 
(209)299-8459 
La Mesa, CA 
(714)465-8888 
Monterey Park, CA 
(213)573-5991 
Mountain View, CA 
(415)948-9595 
Newbury Park, CA 
(805) 498-6796 
Oakland, CA 
(415)523-1923 
San Diego, CA 
(714)272-8450 
San Diego, CA 
(714)292-5302 
San Leandro, CA 
(415)357-1737 
Santa Monica, CA 
(213) 396-3108 
Tarzana, CA 
(213)449-2171 
Tracy, CA 
(209) 836-0928 
Ukiah,CA 
(707)462-3470 

COLORADO 

Boulder, CO 
(303) 444-3652 
Boulder, CO 
(303) 449-3725 
Denver, CO 
(303) 777-3222 
Denver, CO 
(303) 426-7743 
Durango, CO 
(303) 247-5905 
Fort Collins, CO 
(303)491-5692 
Montrose, CO 
(303) 249-7736 
Pueble, CO 
(303) 542-8259 

CONNECTICUT 

Groton, CT 
(203)445-5166 
New London, CT 
(203)447-1079 
Wilton, CT 
(203)762-0717 

FLORIDA 

Ft. Lauderdale, FL 
(305) 566-0776/566-0805 
Ft. Lauderdale, FL 
(305) 772-6391 
Gainesville, FL 
(904)378-0192 
Melbourne, FL 
(305) 723-7880 
Miami, FL 
(305)667-6119 
Rockledge, FL 
(305)632-1090 



Sarasota, FL 
(813)922-4257 
Sarasota, FL 
(813)921-6444 
Tampa, FL 
(813)876-6011 

GEORGIA 

Athens, GA 
(404)353-2858 
Atlanta, GA 
(404)457-8540/451-7429 
Savannah, GA 
(912)236-0498 

HAWAII 

Hilo.HI 

(808)935-2343 

Honolulu, HI 

(808) 732-5246/737-2372 

ILLINOIS 

Arlington Heights, IL 
(312)870-7400 
Carbondale, IL 
(618) 549-8495 
Chicago, IL 
(312)463-0847 
Crest Hill, IL 
(815)725-0749 
Evanston, IL 
(312)328-2600 
Medinah, IL 
(312)894-2583 
Mundelein, IL 
(312)724-3690 
Olympia Fields, IL 
(815)469-4775 
Peoria Heights, IL 
(309)685-1555 
Prairieview, IL 
(312)634-0076 
Quincy, IL 
(217)223-8498 
Rockford, IL 
(815)229-0200 
Springfield, IL 
(217)523-9899 

INDIANA 

Columbus, IN 
(812)376-7770 
Elkhart, IN 
(219)295-8181 
Fort Wayne, IN 
(219)468-4369 
Indianapolis, IN 
(317)359-7445 
La porta, IN 
(219)362-5812 
South Bend, IN 
(219)277-4655 

IOWA 

Lake Park, IA 
(712)832-3616 

KANASAS 

Liberal, KS 
(316)624-1888 
Wichita, KS 
(316)688-0852 

KENTUCKY 

Plkeville, KY 
(606) 437-6528 

LOUISIANA 

New Iberia, LA 
(318)367-1416/1417 
New Orleans, LA 
(504) 482-4458 
W. Monroe, LA 
(318)388-2312 

MAINE 

Portland, ME 
(207) 773-1051 

MARYLAND 

Annapolis, MD 
(301)263-8449 
Baltimore, MD 
(301)685-7313 
College Park, MD 
(301)277-6828 
Gaithersburg, MD 
(301)840-9540 
Hagerstown, MD 
(301)739-6500 
Wheaton,MD 
(301)933-6555/933-8770 



MASSACHUSETTS 

Cambridge, MA 

(617)661-2670 

West Springfield, MA 

(413)733-6648 

MICHIGAN 

Berrien Springs, Ml 
(616)429-3034 
Burton, Ml 
(313)742-3701 
Detroit, Ml 
(313)538-4222 

Farmington Hills, Ml 

(313)477-4470 

Grand Rapids, Ml 

(616)451-8348/451-8349 

Midland, Ml 

(517)631-6840 

Muskegon, Ml 

(616) 722-3019 

Richland, Ml 

(616)629-9173 

Saginaw, Ml 

(517)753-9041 

Troy, Ml 

(313)362-4884 

MINNESOTA 

Bemidji, MN 
(218)751-4140 
Bloomington, MN 
(612)884-6744 
Duluth, MN 
(218)727-3578 
Minneapolis, MN 
(612)588-3944 
Minneapolis, MN 
(612)559-0320 
St. Paul, MN 
(612)646-8441 
Willmar, MN 
(612)235-5971 

MISSISSIPPI 

McComb, MS 
(601)684-1688 
Michigan City, MS 
(601)224-6470 

MISSOURI 

Joplin. MO 
(417)782-1285 
Lee's Summit, MO 
(816) 524-5333 
Manchester, MO 
(314)394-4545 
Ozark, MO 
(417)485-2501 
St. Louis, MO 
(314)962-0382 
(800) 325-9494 

MONTANA 

Helena, MT 
(406) 442-6665 

NEBRASKA 

Lincoln, NB 
(402) 483-1989 
Omaha, NB 
(402) 592-3590 

NEVADA 

Las Vegas, NV 
(702) 382-0562 
Reno, NV 
(702)826-5055 

NEW HAMPSHIRE 

Union, NH 
(603) 473-2323 

NEW JERSEY 

Bayonne, NJ 
(201)858-0115 
Ft. Lee, NJ 
(201)461-2800 
Lincroft, NJ 
(201)780-3857 
Pompton Plains, NJ 
(201)835-7080 
Westfield, NJ 
(201)232-0511 

NEW MEXICO 

Albuquerque, NM 
(505) 266-8224 
Albuquerque, NM 
(505) 265-8007 
Albuquerque, NM 
(505)256-9111 



NEW YORK 

Bronx, NY 
(212) 231-2800 
East Chester, NY 
(914) 779-5292 
EastWilliston.NY 
(516) 746-1079 
Farmingdale, NY 
(516) 694-8222 
New York, NY 
(212) 279-9034 
Potsdam, NY 
(315)265-5620 
Rochester, NY 
(716) 442-5861 
Rochester, NY 
(716) 325-5570 
Wantagh, NY 
(516) 785-4033 
Williamsville, NY 
(716)631-3011 

NORTH CAROLINA 

Fayetteville, NC 
(919) 485-2661 
Lumberton, NC 
(919) 739-5535 
Raeford, NC 
(919) 875-2798 

OHIO 

Akron, OH 
(216) 253-3389 
Alliance, OH 
(216)821-2600 
Cleveland, OH 
(216)461-7650 
Columbus, OH 
(614)866-1307 
Columbus, OH 
(614)451-6400 
Columbus, OH 
(614)436-8442 
Dayton, OH 
(513) 433-8484 
Euclid, OH 
(216) 289-6600 
Lancaster, OH 
(614) 687-0629 
Medina, OH 
(216) 725-4560 
North Canton, OH 
(216) 497-0847 
Northfield, OH 
(216) 467-0003 
Toledo, OH 
(419) 241-1393 
(800) 472-0207 
Warren, OH 
(216) 392-7595 

OKLAHOMA 

Oklahoma City, OK 
(405)946-5492 
Oklahoma City, OK 
(405)947-7896 
Tulsa, OK 
(918) 627-1064 

OREGON 

Corvallis, OR 
(503) 754-0675 
Marylhurst, OR 
(503)635-3544 
Medford.OR 
(503) 779-5612 
Milwaukie, OR 
(503)654-9574 

PENNSYLVANIA 

Allentown, PA 

(215) 820-0200 

Chinchilla, PA 

(717)587-4771 

Erie, PA 

(814) 454-7652 

Greensburg, PA 

(412)836-6502 

Lewtsberg, PA 

(717)524-0638/523-9684 

Monroeville, PA 

(412)372-7701 

New Brighton, PA 

(412)846-3000 

New Kensington, PA 

(412) 337-6080/335-9185 

Philadelphia, PA 

(215)567-2111 



Reno, PA 
(814) 677-6502 
State College, PA 
(814)237-6555 
West Chester, PA 
(215) 436-4750 

SOUTH CAROLINA 

Greenville, SC 
(803) 244-8220 
Hilton Head, SC 
(803) 785-8393 
Summerville, SC 
(803) 873-8767 
Sumter, SC 

(803) 773-2526 

SOUTH DAKOTA 

Sioux Falls, SD 
(605) 335-6464 

TENNESSEE 

Bristol, TN 
(615) 968-1599 
Chattanooga, TN 
(615)892-2411 
Humboldt, TN 
(901) 784-6810 
Kingsport, TN 
(615)349-6172 
Morristown, TN 
(615) 581-4909 
Oak Ridge, TN 
(615) 482-9031 

TEXAS 

Bryan, TX 

(713) 846-8268 

Houston, TX 

(713) 680-2664 

League City, TX 

(713) 332-5555 

Odessa, TX 

(915)333-4516 

Pharr, TX 

(512) 685-4502/787-3208 

San Antonio, TX 

(512)828-0553 

Spring, TX 

(713)353-0518 

UTAH 

Hildale, UT 

(801) 874-2338 

Lehi.UT 

(801)768-3698 

Provo, UT 

(801)374-9580 

Salt Lake City, UT 

(801)262-7100 

Salt Lake City, UT 

(801)486-7555 

VIRGINIA 

Arlington, VA 
(703) 527-4600 
Blacksburg, VA 
(703) 953-2634 
Charlottesville, VA 

(804) 295-1975 
Dry Fork, VA 
(804) 432-8538 
Newport, News, VA 
(804) 874-7844 
Norfolk, VA 

(804) 461-0666 
Richmond, VA 
(804) 355-4361 
Roanoke, VA 
(703) 563-0693 
Staunton, VA 
(703) 886-5520 
Staunton, VA 
(703)886-4098 
Virginia Beach, VA 
(804)461-0330 

WASHINGTON 

Bellingham,WA 
(206) 676-9558 
Kent, WA 
(206)852-5400 
Kirkland.WA 
(206)822-5300 
Richland, WA 
(509)946-3330 
Tacoma, WA 
(206) 581-0388 
Vancouver, WA 
(206) 355-2220 



Yakima, WA 
(509) 575-6060 

WASHINGTON D.C. 

Washington, D.C. 
(202) 234-6646 

WEST VIRGINIA 

Bluefield.WV 
(304)327-6583 
Morgantown, WV 
(304)291-5400 
Wheeling, WV 
(304) 232-6837 

WISCONSIN 

Eau Claire, Wl 
(715)834-8169 
Milwaukee, Wl 
(414) 258-2588 
Milwaukee, Wl 
(414)228-8930 
Neenah.WI 
(414) 725-3020 

WYOMING 

Cheyenne, WY 
(307)632-9132 
Cheyenne, WY 
(307) 634-4956 

ARGENTINA 

Buenos Aires 

Argentina 

54-8589 

Buenos Aires 

Argentina 

31-1385/2338 

Buenos Aires 

Argentina 

762-4634 

AUSTRALIA 

Crows Nest, NSW 

Australia 

(02) 439-6477 

Nethery, S. Australia 

(08)799-211 

Perth West Australia 

(09) 321-9232 

AUSTRIA 

1010 Vienna, Austria 

0222/57 95 91 

BELGIUM 

Bruxelles, Belgium 
02/521-9580 

BOLIVIA 

La Paz, Bolivia 
365191 

CANADA 

Bernieres, Quebec, 
Canada 
(418)831-4522 
Halifax, Nova Scotia, 
Canada 
(902) 876-2920 
Prince George, 
British Columbia 
(604) 564-8298 
Richmond, B.C. Canada 
(206)676-9558 
Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada 
(416)239-3913 
WalkersvillePO. 
Windsor, Ontario 
(519) 254-1007 

COSTA RICA 

Heredia, Costa Rica 
37-46-66 

CYPRUS 

Nicosia, Cyprus 
(021)76214 

ECUADOR 

Cuena, Ecuador 
803-770 
Quito, Ecuador 
523-721 

ENGLAND 

Gants Hill, 

Mford, Essex, England 

(01)554-2177 

Littleborough 

Lancashire, England 

(0706)79332 

Chesham House 

London, England 

(01) 439-6288 



Or for the name of your local dealer, call 1-800-321-6850 TOLL FREE. 



New Barnett, London 

England 

(41) 441-2422 

Northwich, Cheshire 

England 

(0606)75627 

Kingston-upon-Thames 

Surrey. England 

(01)549-9943 

FRANCE 

Paris, France 
329-6327 

Versailles, France 
950-2820 

FINLAND 

Hamari, Finland 
(15)154647 

GREECE 

Athens, Greece 
790-262 

ICELAND 

Reykjavik, Iceland 
86620 

IRELAND 

Btackrock Co. of Dublin 

Ireland 

01-889825 

ITALY 

Milano, Italy 
(02) 2363854 

MEXICO 

Mexico 6, D.F. 
5-33-1180 

Mexican, B.C. Mexico 
8-2629, 2-2222 
Mexico, 21, D.F. 
(905) 554-8300 
Mexico, D.F. 
556-6614 

NETHERLANDS 

3351 BM Papendrecht 

Netherlands 

079-156033 

NEW ZEALAND 

Auckland, New Zealand 
664-149 

PANAMA 

Panama, 

Republic of Panama 

255292 

PHILIPPINES 

Legaspl Village, Makati 

Metro Manila, Philippines 

85641 1 

Makati, Metro Manila 

Philippines 

87-30-81/87-81-21 

PUERTO RICO 

Hato Rey, Puerto Rico 
(809)751-4042 

SCOTLAND 

Glasgow, Scotland 
041-634-3860 

SWEDEN 

Taby, Sweden 
(08)756-0155 

SWITZERLAND 

Basel, Switzerland 
(0114161)463626 

TAIWAN 

Taipei, Taiwan R.O.C. (10) 
(02)7819050,7819035 

TRINIDAD 

Port of Spain 
Trinidad and Tobago 
62-38231 

URUGUAY 

Montevideo, Uruguay 
90.48.12/98.78.61 

VENEZUELA 
Caracas, VZ 
(02)31.39.40 
Maracaipo, VZ 
7184 

Caracas, VZ 
72.38.93/71.92.75 
Prados del Este 
Caracas, VZ 
979.77.42/979.98.08 

WEST GERMANY 

Hamburg, West Germany 
040-33 09 35 



1333 3. CHILLICOTHE RD • AURORA, OH 44202 • [216] 831-5600 



32p BYTE April 1980 



Solve your personal energy crisis. 
Let VisiCalc Software do the work. 



With a calculator, pencil and paper you can spend hours plan- 
ning, projecting, writing, estimating, calculating, revising, erasing 
and recalculating as you work toward a decision. 

Or with the Personal Software"* VisiCalc program and your 
Apple* II you can explore many more options with a fraction of 
the time and effort you've spent before. 

VisiCalc is a new breed of problem-solving software. Unlike 
prepackaged software that forces you into a computerized 
straight jacket, VisiCalc adapts itself to any numerical problem 
you have. You enter numbers, alphabetic titles and formulas on 
your keyboard. VisiCalc organizes and displays this infor- 
mation on the screen. You don't have to spend your time 
programming. 

Your energy is better spent using the results than get- 
ting them. 

Say you're a business manager and want to project 
your annual sales. Using the calculator, pencil and paper 
method, you'd lay out 12 months across a sheet 
and fill in lines and columns of figures on 
products, outlets, salespeople, etc. You'd cal- 
culate by hand the subtotals and summary 
figures. Then you'd start revising, erasing 
and recalculating. With VisiCalc, you simply 
fill in the same figures on an electronic 
"sheet of paper" and let the computer do 
the work. 

Once your first projection is complete, 
you're ready to use VisiCalc's unique, 
powerful recalculation feature. It lets you 
ask "What if?'/ examining new options 
and planning for contingencies. "What if" 
sales drop 20 percent in March? Just type in 
the sales figure. VisiCalc instantly updates 
all other figures affected by March sales. 

Circle 16 on inquiry card. 



Or say you're an engineer working on a design problem and are 
wondering "What if that oscillation were damped by another 10 
percent?" Or you're working on your family's expenses and 
wonder "What will happen to our entertainment budget if the 
heating bill goes up 15 percent this winter?" VisiCalc responds 
instantly to show you all the consequences of any change. 

Once you see VisiCalc in action, you'll think of many more 
uses for its power. Ask your dealer for a demonstration and dis- 
cover how VisiCalc can help you in your professional work and 
personal life. 

You might find that VisiCalc alone is reason enough to 
own a personal computer. 

VisiCalc is available now for Apple II computers with 
versions for other personal computers coming soon. The 
Apple II version requires a 32k disk system. 

For the name and address of your nearest VisiCalc 

dealer, call (408) 745-7841 or write to Personal Software, Inc., 

592 Weddell Dr„ Sunnyvale, CA 94086. If your 

favorite dealer doesn't already carry Personal 

Software products, ask him to give us 

a call. 




?3f?8$ 



gOr 



VisiCalc was developed exclusively for 
Personal Software by Software Arts, Inc., 
Cambridge, Mass. 



TM— VisiCalc is a trademark of 
Personal Software, Inc. 



* Apple is a registered trademark 
of Apple Computer, Inc. 



Robert G A Goff MD 

Berkeley Medical Data 

POB 5279 

Berkeley CA 94705 



Add a Simple 

Text Editor to 

Your BASIC Programs 



While text editors are, in general, ex- 
tremely useful for preparing all sorts of 
paperwork, it is usually not possible to 
append them to your own BASIC pro- 
grams. This article is a simple tutorial in 
the bare essentials of text editing in BASIC. 
With these techniques, it will be possible 
for you to add simple text processing 
capability to any of your personal or busi- 
ness programs written in BASIC, which 
require paragraphed textual output. The 
program is written in North Star BASIC, 
version 6, release 3. It may be stored, as 
is, in 3186 bytes; it executes in a total of 
4746 bytes. Deleting the remark statements 
reduces the program length to 1410 bytes 
enabling it to execute in 2956 bytes. While 
listing 1 is fairly self-explanatory, I'll dis- 
cuss each of the steps in detail. 

Text Editing 

There are several tasks which text editors 
must accomplish. Most of these fall under 
the general category of producing a hard 
copy of text in an acceptable format. The 
barest definition of "an acceptable format" 
is one in which words are not randomly 
truncated at the end of a line of print. With 
this single requirement met, the text will be 
readable. But even this single text editing 
function requires that there be some ways 
to: 

• Access the text string from memory 
or input. 

• Determine line length to be printed. 

• Distinguish between words and spaces. 

• Alter what is to be printed on a given 
line based on the three criteria above. 

• Link the sentences together in the 
proper order. 

Such a text editor assumes that the user 
has made certain that each sentence is 
punctuated, and that each sentence string 
ends with the two trailing spaces needed 
to separate consecutive sentences. 



A more useful text editor would also 
possess the following capabilities: 

• Add missing periods at the end of sen- 
tences and recognize question and 
exclamation marks as adequate 
punctuation. 

• Remove extraneous spaces at the 
beginning of each new typed line. 

• Automatically add the two trailing 
spaces between sentences. 

• Indent paragraphs when desired. 

• Translate numeric data fetched from 
memory or input into the corre- 
sponding string characters for inclu- 
sion within a sentence. 

• Allow input of line length for printing. 

Text editors used solely for input and 
composition of text, such as Michael 
Shrayer's "Electric Pencil/' possess one 
other powerful set of characteristics: the 
ability to make radical modifications to the 
text after input and prior to printing. Be- 
cause of this capability, this type of text 
editor does not need to compensate for the 
user's input errors noted above. As useful 
as full capability text editors are (I used 
Electric Pencil to compose the manuscript 
of this article) they are of no use within a 
BASIC program written for some other 
application, since most commercially avail- 
able text editors are written in machine 
language. 

Accessing Text 

Text must be manipulated as strings of 
characters, whether letters, numbers, or sym- 
bols. In North Star BASIC, string variables 
may have names consisting of a letter, A 
thru Z, optionally followed by a number, 
thru 9, allowing 260 unique string names.. 
This number is quite enough for most appli- 
cations, since if more than 260 strings are 
manipulated, several strings may be linked 
(concatenated), then renamed as a single 
string, and the variables thus freed reused 



34 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



for new strings. Strings of over 10 charac- 
ters must be dimensioned at the start of the 
program, and may have dimensions limited 
only by your computer's memory. A portion 
of a string may be accessed using North 
Star BASIC by appending to the string 
name the character positions of the first 
and last characters in the desired substring: 

10 DIM A3$(8) 

20 A3$="ABCDabcd" 

30 PRINT A3$(3,6) 

This causes the printing of "CDab." The 
BASIC line 30 PRINT A3$(5) causes the 
printing of "abed." 

In other versions of BASIC, substrings 
may be named differently. One such method 
(used in Microsoft BASIC) looks like this: 

LEFT$(A$,3) is the same as A$(1,3) 
MID$(A$,3,6) is the same as A$(3,6) 
RIGHT$(A$,6) is the same as A$(6) 

Strings may be stored in memory and 
accessed as individual variables. They may 
also be included in a data line of the pro- 
gram and read from there, or they may be 
entered during program execution. 

Determining Line Length 

Let us make L the number of characters 
to be printed per line. Now, any line to be 
printed will begin with character number B 
of the string and end with character number 
E. For the first line of print, B is set equal to 
1 and E is set equal to L. To compute the 
range of the second line, set B equal to E+1 
and E equal to E+L, and so forth, for the 
entire text. These line printing parameters 
are used to define the line string F$, by 
using B and E as the substring parameters. 
Thus, if the text string to be printed is E$, 
we set F$ equal to E$(B,E), and print F$. 
We increment B and E, then again set F$ 
equal to E$(B,E). 

The one difficulty with this method 
occurs when any line of text to be printed 
is shorter than the line length. In setting 
F$ to E$(B,E), E will be greater than the 
length of E$, and will generate an out-of- 
bounds error. To prevent this situation, 
the length of E$ must be compared to the 
value of E using the function LEN(E$), 
which returns a number equal to the number 
of characters actually contained in the 
named string (E$). If E is greater than 
LEN(E$), the program lines which calculate 
and print F$ must be skipped; all that is 
left is to print E$(B), which will print from 



Listing 1: BASIC source program and a sample run of TXTEDIT2. This 
text editor is word oriented rather than line oriented. The normal editor, 
supplied with BASIC, works line by line in edit mode. This BASIC program 
allows changes of single words without having to retype an entire line. The 
program accepts four sentences of up to 97 characters each. A period is added 
to the end of each sentence if it is missing, as well as two trailing spaces. (The 
program recognizes the characters ? and ! as sufficient punctuation.) When 
printing the four sentences, the program removes any leading spaces at the 
beginning of a new line; line length may be adjusted by the user. The total 
number of characters entered plus any necessary punctuation and trailing 
spaces are calculated, changed into a string, and printed in the final sentence 
obtained by the program. The program is written in Release 3 of North Star 
BASIC, if you are using Release 4, delete the comma after PRINT #Z 



220 
230 
240 
250 
260 
270 
280 
290 
300 
310 
320 
330 
340 
350 
360 
370 
380 
390 
400 
410 
420 
430 
440 
450 
460 
470 
480 
490 
500 
510 
520 
530 
540 
550 
560 
570 
580 
590 
600 
610 
620 
630 
640 
650 
660 
670 
680 
690 
700 
710 
720 
730 
740 
750 
760 
770 
780 
790 
800 
810 
820 
830 
840 
850 
860 
870 
880 
890 
900 
910 
920 



REM *** #Zf=0UTPUT DEVICE < #1 f ^PRINTER t #0f=CRT) 

INPUT+Zf'for printer? type 1, for CRT type "fZ 

IF Z = l THEN FILL 51206, 1\REM *** SET INPUT TO PRINTER 

DIM A* (100) ,B$(100) ,C*(100)fD$(100) , E$ ( 466 ) f F$ < 466 > fG*<100) 

INPUT*Z,"lst ",G* 

G0SUB 800 

A*-G$ 

INPUT*Z, '2nd ",G$ 

G0SUB 800 

B*=G* 

INPUT*Z, "3rd ■ , G* 

G0SUB 800 

C$^G$ 

JNPUT#Z,'4th ",G* 

G0SUB 800 

B$»8* 

PRINT#Z,"THE SENTENCES WITH PUNCTUATION , IF NEEDED, AND BLANKS" 

PRINT#Zf "FOLLOWED IMMEDIATELY BY * TO SHOW SUBSTRING LENGTH" 

PRINT*Zf A$,"*" 

PRINT*Zf B*,"*" 

PRINT#Z, C$,"*" 

PRINT*Zf D$,"*" 

PRINT#Zf\PRINT#Zf\PRINT#Z, 

E$^A$+B$+C$+D$\REM ***CONCATENATE STRINGS INTO PARAGRAPH 

I=LEN(E*)\REM *** 'I' WILL DEMONSTRATE DATA INSERTION 

G*="Your sentences, with punctuation and spacing* " 

G$^G$(1,45)+" total characters." 

G*(52f55)=STR*(I)\REM *** CHANGE 'I' TO ITS STRING EQUIVALENT 

REM *** AND INSERT IT INTO G$ 

E*=E*(1fI)+G* 

D~J\R£H *** START OF FRINT LINE 

INPUTtZr "Line lenstth (number of characters)? '»L 

E=L-4\REM *** L=LINE LENGTH 

PRINT#Zf"THE CONCATENATED SENTENCES, PRINTED BY THE LINE" 

PRINT*Zf\PRINT#Zf " "f\REM *** INDENT PARAGRAPH 

IF E>LEN(E*) THEN 670 

F*=E$(DfE~1)\REM *** F*=LINE TO BE PRINTED 

IF E*(DfD)=" ' THEN GOTO 760 

IF E$(E»E)=" " THEN 630NREM *** TEST FOR END OF WORD 

E=E-1\REM *#* SHORTEN LINE UNTIL END OF WORD IS FOUND 

GOTO 580 

PRINT#Z,F* 

D^EXREM *** START OF NEXT LINE 

E=E+L~1\REM *** SET LENGTH OF NEXT LINE 

GOTO 570 

IF E$(DfD)=' " THEN GOSUB 760 

PRINT*ZfE$(D) 

PRINT*Zf\PRINT*Zf\PRINT*Zf 

INPUT#Zf"Do you want to print this paragraph again? " fH$ 

IF H*(1,1)="Y" THEN 520 

IF H$<lFl)="y" THEN 520 

IF H*(1f1)="N" THEN END 

IF H*(lFl)="n" THEN END 

PRINT*Zf"YES or NO please"\G0T0 700 

D=D+1 

E=E + 1 

IF E$(DfD)=" " THEN 760 

GOTO 570 

G=LEN<G$) 

REM *** REMOVE TRAILING BLANKS 

IF G$(GfG)=" " THEN G=G~1 ELSE GOTO 860 

REM *** RETURN TO CHECK FOR MORE TRAILING BLANKS 

GOTO 820 

REM *** CHECK FOR PUNCTUATION (ASCII .=46f !=33f ?=63> 

IF(ASC(G*(G))-46 OR ASC(G*(G))=33) OR ASC( G*( G) )=63 THEN 910 

REM *** ADD PERIOD TO END OF SENTENCE 

G$=G$(1fG)+" . " 

G=Gfl 

REM *** ADD TRAILING SPACES 

G*=G$(1fG)+" 

RETURN Listing 1 continued on page 36 



April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 35 



Listing 1 continued: 
RUN 

for printer* type 1? for CRT type 1 

1st The first sentence is properly punctuated. 

2nd The second sentence is not punctuated 

3rd What will the editor do with these 9 trailing spaces? 

4th Such a Quick Job this makes of text material in your programs! 

THE SENTENCES UIITH PUNCTUATION r IE NEEDED* AND BLANKS 

FOLLOWED IMMEDIATELY PY * TO SHOW SUBSTRING LENGTH 

The first sentence is properly punctuated. * 

The second sentence is not punctuated. * 

What will the editor do with these 9 trailing spaces? * 

Such s ouxek Job this makes of text material in your programs! * 



L l n e 1 e r i <:i t h ( n u m b er of characters)'? 72 

THE CONCATENATED SENTENCES r PRINTED BY THE LINE 

The first sentence 1 is properly punctuated* The second sentence is 
not punctuated. What will the editor do With these 9 trailing spaces? 
Such 3 c*uick Job this makes of text material in your programs! Your 
sentences t with punctuation and spacing • total 203 characters. 



Do you want to print this paira^vBt-h v&dift? y 

Li rie length (number of characters)''* 13 

THE CONCATENATED SENTENCES* PRINTED BY THE LINE 



firs 
sent 

P T O P 

punc 

The 

sent 

h o t 

pune 

What 

Uw 

do w 

the 

trai 

S P 3 C 

Such 

Job 

make 

text 

mate 

your 

p r p '$ 

Your 

sent 

with 

PUI'lC 

3nd 

tota 

char 



The 
t 

ence is 
e r 1 y 
tuated . 
second 
ence is 

tuated* 

will 
editor 
ith 

e 9 

i inm 

as? 

a auick 
this 

5 Of 

rial in 

rams ! 

ences ? 

tuation 
spacind * 
1 203 
acters . 



character number B to the end of the 
string. [This method also assumes that 
strings can have arbitrary lengths; Some 
BASIC interpreters limit strings to 256 
characters in length . . . CH/ 

To indent a paragraph, initialize B to 6 
and E to (L— 5). Then, prior to printing 
the text, simply print five blanks, followed 
by a comma to keep the printing line open. 
The following program prints the entire 
string E$ in lines that are L characters long. 

50 INPUT "What is line length?", L 

60B=6 

70 E=L-5 

80 IF E>LEN(E$)THEN 140 

90 F$=E$(B,E) 

100 PRINT F$ 

110B=E+1 

120E=E+L 

130 GOTO 80 

140 PRINT E$(B) 

Any words that cross the boundary between 
one printed line and the next would be 
arbitrarily broken to fit the line length, 
when using this program. To avoid this, 
it is necessary to scan the text for the last 
space before the end of each line to be 
printed, and shorten each line so that no 
partial word is left at the end. This is done 
by testing the first character following the 
proposed line of print. If it is a space, no 
word would be broken by printing the line 
as is. If on the other hand the first character 
following a proposed line of print is not a 
space, the end character of the print line 
must be either a space or an arbitrary 
character. So the print line is shortened 
by one character (E=E— 1), and retested 



in the same way until a space is found as 
the next character following the proposed 
line of print. The line is then printed, and 
we go on to process the second line in a 
similar fashion. In the listing of TXTEDIT2, 
E is initially set equal to the line length 
plus one, and then, in line 600, character E 
of the proposed line of print is tested. If 
it is a space, E$(B,E-1) is printed. If not, 
the line is shortened by one character in 
line 610. 

Linking Sentences 

Strings that must be linked together, 
or concatenated, are placed in a string 
equation such as: 

50 E$=A$+B$+C$ 

This will concatenate the strings in the 
order specified in the equation. With string 
variables, North Star BASIC does not allow 
many equation formats that would be per- 
fectly acceptable if used for numeric vari- 
ables. For example: 



50E$=E$+B$ 



will generate an out of bounds error, since 
the first E$ will be greater than the second 
E$. Because of this and other peculiarities 
of North Star BASIC string functions, 
intermediate variables must often be used 
to concatenate strings. (The example above 
will function properly in North Star BASIC 
Release 4.) As an example, if your program 
contains 11 strings that must be concaten- 
ated in a sequence determined by the pro- 
gram, you may either concatenate each of 
them by name (all in the same equation) 
or accumulate them one by one. If the latter 
method is chosen, an intermediate variable 
is necessary. If E$ is the paragraph to be 
printed, then: 

50 F$=E$ 
60 E$=F$+A$ 
70 F$=E$ 
80E$=F$+B$ 
90 F$-E$ 

with F$ being the intermediate variable, 
and A$ and B$ being new strings to accu- 
mulate in E$. F$ must be dimensioned 
equal to E$. 

There is one other way of accumulating 
strings without obtaining an out-of-bounds 
error message: by specifying the length of 
the currently accumulated string and then 
concatenating literal text. That is: 



50G=LEN(G$) 
60G$=G$(1,G)+ 

"This is the text to be added." 



36 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



A peculiarity of North Star BASIC is that 
the statements: 

50G=LEN(G$) 
60G$=G$(1,G)+A$ 

will generate an out-of-bounds error mes- 
sage. Actually, the problem is that once a 
string has been defined, and in spite of its 
dimension, its length cannot be increased 
without redefining it in a concatenation 
equation that doesn't concatenate itself. 
Nevertheless, this rule can be violated when 
concatenating a string with itself and literal 
text. That is, the added string is presented 
in its entirety in the equation, enclosed 
within quotes. 

Just as an aside, strings may be alpha- 
betized by their first character by using the 
relational > or <. Strings can be used in 
conjunction with LET, READ, DATA, 
INPUT, IF, and PRINT. In most versions 
of BASIC strings may be read from data 
intermingled with numeric variables as long 
as the proper sequence is maintained. 

Inserting Numeric Data 

Even though numeric values appear 
the same as number characters, they cannot 
be manipulated in the same way. A number 
cannot be inserted into a text string. First, 
it must be converted to its character equiva- 
lent. Then it may be inserted. This is under- 
standable when you consider that, for 
example, in BASIC with 8 digit precision for 
numeric computations, a number (regardless 
of the number of digits) is stored in five 
bytes, whereas number characters within 
a string are stored as one byte (representing 
that particular print character) per digit. 

This conversion is made by the 



STR$(expr) function, in which expr stands 
for the numeric value which must be con- 
verted into its string counterpart. In 
TXTEDIT2, this is used in line 490 to 
convert the numeric value of the length of 
E$ (represented by T from line 460) into 
the equivalent string characters and insert 
them into the blank of string G$. The 
opposite conversion — from string number 
characters into a numeric value that can be 
manipulated algebraically — is performed 
by the function VAL(expr), with expr 
being the number characters of a string. 

Punctuating Sentences 

When strings are to be input by the user 
of a program in response to some question, 
the user will not always remember to add 
the period at the end of each sentence. This 
is no problem if the printed output is not 
in paragraph form. If the output is to be 
a paragraphed letter or document, however, 
then regardless of the input, the sentences 
must be closed with some form of punc- 
tuation. It is therefore necessary to check 
the input string to see if there is a period, 
question mark or exclamation point present. 
If not, a period should be added. In 
TXTEDIT2, as each sentence is entered, 
it is sent to line 800 where any extraneous 
trailing blanks are deleted, and the last 
character of the string is tested to see if 
it is one of the three possible punctuation 
marks. If not, a period is added. 

One difficulty in comparing several 
string characters is that the Boolean opera- 
tors AND, OR, and NOT cannot be used. 
There are two ways around this: the first 
and most cumbersome is to use one program 
line for each comparison to be made. The 
Text continued on page 39 





<^$y from EMS 

/m& SINGLE-BOARD COMPUTER 




w i O-, 




Sound Effects . . . Sound Effects . . . !!! 

S-100 bus Apple Htm bus 






s-ioubus 




ADD "SPACESHIP" SOUNDS, PHASERS, 




• IEEES-100P 

• 2KRAM 


reposed Stand 


ard 


GUNSHOTS, TRAINS, MUSIC, SIRENS, ET 
UNDER SOFTWARE CONTROL!!! 


C! 




• 4K/8K/16K ROM 




• Soundboards Use Gl AY 3-8910 1.G.'s to C 


Generate 




• PIA, ACIA Ports 




Programmable Sound Effects. 


£0;: 


\ 


• adsMON; 6809 Monitor Available 


y* On Board Audio Amp. Breadboard Area\ 


With +5&GND. 




PC, Board & Manual Presently Available 


• Noise Sources • Envelope Generators • I/O Ports 




ALL PC BOARDS FROM ADS ARE SOLDER 
MASKED, WITH GOLD CONTACTS, & PARTS 
LAYOUT SILK SCREENED ON BOARD. 
Add 50<p postage & handling per item. 
III. residents add sales tax. 


PCB& Manual: *39.95 (NM); **34.95(NM It) 

! ! ! ! ! ! ATTENTION APPLE II USERS! ! M ! ! 

Assembled and Tested MM II Units Now Available! !! 
Call or Write for Details. QOS 










:;;■ ; : : :: 


Ackerman Digi 


tal Systems, In 


c., 110 N. York R 


oad, Suite 208, Elmhurst, Illinois 60126 (312)530-8992 



Circle 59 on inquiry card. 



April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 37 











O^tTf 










O^t rn 










O 3 * «N 










O^t — 










o^to 










O e*\ a\ 










O f*1 OO 

o ro r- 


















O rn \D 


I 

<** 

O 


1 


1 P 5 




O MM 

o m<N 


o 

e 


E 

a 


§ <2 53 

ill 

© a> O 




O m O 
0<N O 


1 


ex 

S3 





0<N 00 

ocsr- 

O <N ir» 


«£- 


*5 








1 
8 




OMrn 


<** 





S3 rt S 




OtNfS 




s 






0<N — < 

O (NO 
O — Os 




»5 

1 


III 

8 -S* 




O — OO 

o — r- 


1 




6 

S3 




O *-i O 
O — ' v~> 

o — ^r 


QQ 




"? tH 


^ 

s 


O — <N 


1 


s 

4*3 


J c 

Si 8* 


s 


o — — 
o ~o 
ooo> 

OO00 










oor- 










oovo 










OCn 










oo^r 










OOrt 










OOlN 










OO — 










OO o 



IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHI ©« 

Hllililllllllllllllilinillllllllllllllllillillltllllll orrn 

HlllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllHIIllllllllllllllllllllH o^rrs 

llltl«IIMilllMf«!|Hlllkitaill]|;||![|Mllllkl|{tllllllllllllllllllMlttllllllBllltlllllllllltlBlMtlll«IMIIIII ■linMlllllllllllltllltnil«UI1|!ltt)IIMrtnMt}tHllftlUIMIIiniMllllUll|IMMI|i1t|tfl o^r- 

Ml^ll!Mft^ni(lllVMMMf^lllllBiiII1k««MllllBl IIIIIM1IIIIIMIIUIBIIIIIIIIIIMI IBBBUBMIBUItlllB ■IBIIIIIBUIIIiaBUUIBat I ■IMiBlll«riBlM^»tlttlllllllllBMtnrilltntlltlinil o^to 

IIIIIIHHIIIIItilillllililillilllHIflllllllltHllllllllllllllillllllllillill or^as 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIM^ omoo 

lllllllltl|llll!llllllllllllllllllllllll!llli|illlllll!IIW o^r- 

IIBIBBIIIIflBBIBIIBIlBllillBIBBBIBIfllBIIIBIIBIIIIBIIIBIBIIIIflflfllllBliflllBlllflBflllBIIBIBiaillflBBIlBIBBIflllBIIIIBIIBIIIIIIBIIIBIBIBIIBBIIIBtBIIBBIBIIIBIBIfffll o^ 

iiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iii iiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiii! linn i i iiiiiiii mil ii ©***> 

iiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuniH o^Tf 

llllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll^ ©mm 

IIBIBBIIfllflBIBBIIBMttflllBIIBBllflB IBIMI M fl HIBtM I B B fl B 1 B I B 1 1 1 ■ 1 1 1 1 B I Bl fl BMflB 1 1 1 B I II I B I B 1 1 1 Bfl I B B ■ 1 1 BB I B B B 1 1 ■ B B B 1 1 1 B I B 1 1 B B B fl I Blfll 1 1 B I B 1 1 B I B I B B 1 1 BBI MB 1 1 1 1 B I B I II B 1 1 fl fl III IB B BB1 B I M 1 1 1 B 1 1 B 1 1 1 1 omes 

lllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllHIIilllM Or-,^ 

llllllilfllllllllllllllllllllllillllilllllllllliitllilillilllliilllllillllllllllllllllillllltllltllilllllliHIIII^ Omo 

IIIIIBMIfltllBMIIBItlBMIBIIBBIfllllllllBntlBBMBMMMIfBIBIBMIIIBBBMaBUinillBIBttriBIBltnritBIIMBBinMIIIMIIIBMBIIfllBMI flIIMMB BIIBM 111111181111 1 1 MBMMIIBBt II HUB I MIBI 1 1 1 BMIBBBIBIIBMIIII onov 

MBIBBIIIfllBlflllMBBBfllllfllBBBIIBItltltflMIBntflBBBIBIBMIltBIIIIBIBIIIBBIflBMIBBIBIBlIBB IBt BIMBIBIIlBBBIBIttllB1inBia«BBIBHIIfll(B1BllB}rt«IHBMHIIBI11*BlflinilttlIlllini1IIIIMMI1i}IIBBIBnitlfI o(noo 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHItlllllllllllllllllllllHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIM orsrv 

lllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllflllllllHIIinillllllllllllllllH or^vc 

itiiiimimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii^ o<n^ 

IIBIBBIBBBIIBIItllBB BIBBBIB1IIIIIIIBIIBIIIBIIIB IIIIBIIBBBBIB11BIIIB1IIB BMIBIIIB fllBIBMIBIIBIIIIBIIIfllfllBllflBfllllBIIIIIIBIIIBBIIBIIBflflfllBIBtBlllflllfllfllllfl BBIBBB1IBBIBB11IBB IBM o<n^ 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIII^ orsm 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllHlllllllllllllllllllilllllllll ohn 

MiiiiiiiBiBMaMiiitfaMtiiBiitiiBiiiiiBHiriiiinBaiiiitiiiniitiMiBiBiiiiiMiBtiiuniiNiinBinnnirMMiiai BiiiuiiBnnuEiiiiiiniiatiiiniiiiiHiiiaiintiiBaBiiflinnninHtiBtiBNitiiiiiiEiiBt o<n- 

niiBiniiaaLiaiiiiJflntiiiPiiiLB!aifaani(inanflaBiBaiiiMnniiijiaiiii)BirninaiMMtiaiaiiiBiiaiB!iaaiai(Mif!Miiia( iMtiianiiaifti«iiiatMtiiBiiantBii) aiaiutttfiit^BttaBiiiffaniiMininiaiB o^o 

IIBJBfllBBIIIBBBIIIBIIBBIIIBIBBBIfllBIBIIiailB Bit flIBIIIiailBBflllfllBlfllBIBIIBBIBiailllBIIBIIIBIfllBiailBIIIB BIIBaBaiBillBBIIiaiMHlBMMBBiaHBnilBIMnilBlflllBMBMtriltaJMiaaiBfB^BniaMlft^BiBIBMBM o~<* 

IIBIBBIIBIIBBIIIMflMBIIIIfllBBBIIIIfllBIMBBIBIBIIBBnBflllBfllMIIIBIIIIIIflllBllfllflliaflflliaifl BiaiBlflia»|]BlillBillBBIBfBBIBIMBtBBMiiBiirBMflnBaiflViiBUBIBMlBt)IBtnfl!BlllilLMJiniBlllflmBIBiaUIBBIianiBBBt o-oo 

MIlBBIIBBBBIiaUllMtBIIIBIBlBllBflMfniinUnBinitBllBneLntflllllfllBMIIIflMlMBinta^B llMiailllll!l}lJ!BIIBI!B!B!IBMB!BlflBIBIMBBBtiBIII(llMIB!miHB«Jltll!9BIIBIPk|lEUM!t!!illlBIU|]IMlllBIBI(BBMIBr o-i> 

iiiiaaiiiBaMBBMiainMMBiBa«iiBaaiiiMiaMMuaiHMiBiftaaiMBiitMiiBia aiiaiatiBittBifiiiBaiiHaaiBianBaiaiBiiBiaiiBiiflaaaiaiaiBiiaaiBiiiBtiiBiBMainiitBiiirBiaiiiiittitiiMBiBiiannaiBuiBaiBtaiifaiiiai ©-* 

IIBIBBIIIIflMBIIIIIBBBaillBIBBBnBIBIIBIIBIBiaBIIBIIIBIIIIBIBIMBIIflBBfllBIBI IIIIIBIB1IBIIIIIBIIIIIIBII1IIBIBIIBIIIII BlfliaiiailBlltliaLBtlliaaiaiBiainiinllllBiarfinilliiiltLlIIBBfMIMlinniaia^HifliaiM o-«n 

iiiaRiiiinat iiiuna(aiiiiia!iii(iMtMiii!nttBJBiiBui<airfianBii]aiana»aannBMiBiiuEiiBMiaiiaiiMPiB!H!(aa iiHiNBiiiBaiHatiimtiaBBttiaMiftttnaMiiiMBtiinnaaHianaiBBiinaiiaiiMivFi^ii o~^ 

iiaiBBiBiflBiBBBiiiiBBiaiiifliBBfliifliBBiiiiaiiiiiiBiBiaBfliBiiBiiaiBiaifliiiflii^iiiiiaiiiitiaia BtaiBiai^naBaMaiaiiiiiaiBiBiBieiniiajBiataiiiBniufltBiiBBBBiaHftBBiMaMiHiafitMBiBiiBBBitaiiiBHHB iiiiiaai ©-m 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH o-«n 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIU^ o~- 

IIBIBBIBIBBIIfl BiailllfllBBBIIBB IBBII aiBIIIBBIIBBllBBIflflBIIBllllinaillUiaillBllMBtlB tBBiBtBillBBBItBltBIIMIIBlBlliBaiBnMBBIllBHtBIMniBnHlJBIIlBiailBIIIIHtflHBBIBIIUIIiaVfBIIBnilVIIIIII o-o 

ilfBaiBaaaiiiasnBMBIIIBIllBl^BnilllBLiBia^nfiaBilfitMIBilillBBIIISIfltlMBIIBMillBlflBMtBkBflinttfiBBBIIBilBl aiBinaBilBBilBaraBiliBailinianillllMtBBfllBllflBafllBIBIIBBIBIfllBIBIflltllBIIIBIIIIIliaaBIIII ooo, 

JiaiBBinBUBflltmiHilllBIBBBKBBlHMIBBnilllBBII 1IttlMBBnBBUiB(«lM)BBIIUMB iflUIIBBIIBIIflllllflBBBIBIBIIIBflflllflllBIIIMIBIBIIIBBIIBBIiaBtBlflllflailllllBIIIIIIBIIBIIBIBllBBBIIBIflillllBIBIBIBIBIBIBIII oooc 

llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll^ ©or- 

ManariiiiiaininiaaiiiiiaaaMftMMMiaaa aaniifiift niftkBiiiitriaaitBBii^uBBiiiiniiiiiiiiutiaMiiiiBUiiiBaBiaiBiMBBBMBMBiitiiiBiBiiiaaiiBBiiaBiiBiiiBB BiiiiiiBiiBiiBiBiiaBBiiBiBiiiiiBiaiaiBL ©©*> 

llllllllllllllinilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllim e>mm 

iiwiiitii«iifttMiuiaii!iiB^iBftttiniiiia aiiiifMBB ftiiMiiwa^aniaaMttMiianiMitiiMtia aiiiiifliifliiaiiiiBBiiiBiiiiiBaflMBMBiiiiiifliBiiiBBiiaiiiBiaiiBiiaiiiiiiiB ■iiBiiaifliiiiBiiBianiii ©©*■ 

iiaillitHlMMkklMllllHttllBtlil ■l«iilliaia«innBll!ai1BliarBnilllBllliaMlllltBBIIIBlBIIIIBBIIIBIBIIIIBII1BniaiaBIIIBIIIBBBIIBIiai1IIIIBIBII1BBIIIIMBllllBliaa B ■HiaiBiailBBBaiaiBtlBBIIIBIBIII oo-, 

IlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllinilllllllllllU^ OOr, 

MffBIIBIBlMtB (flMlBtBBliBLIIIBBIIBII11MIBiBlifMflfllllBtlBBII11IIBBIIIMIBIBI1flllBIBBMIBIIIBIMIBIIBllMBIBI1lllBB1IIBI1BBtltlllBBI BIBIIBUBIBBlllBIIIBIBIIflllBllMBIB flfllflllllBBIBBIIIBBIBBMIflllllfll oo- 

MBtBBllBIBII MIIIBB BBIIBIIIBBIBIBIIflBIIMIIBI BIIIBMIBMBIIfllflMBfllBllfllllMIBIIIManBIIBIIMBIBIIIIIBBIUBIIBBIIIIIIBBlUUIBIBIIIIIBIBfllllflllMBIIIBIIBlMIBIBMIIIflfllllBllflB BBIIIlMBtBtlBMBIBllll ooo 



a 



Text continued from page 37: 

second is to convert the string characters 
into numbers that can be compared using 
the Boolean operators. Since VAL(expr) 
may be used only for string characters 
that represent numbers, it may not be 
used for converting alphabetic characters 
into numbers. Instead, the characters can be 
converted to the ASCII code decimal value 
by using the function ASC(string name), 
which will return the decimal ASCII value 
of the first character in the named string. 
This is demonstrated in lines 850 and 860 
ofTXTEDIT2. 

Trailing Spaces 

Sentences that are concatenated into a 
paragraph must be separated by two spaces. 
This is done by finding the last character 
of the string which is not a space, and then 
simply adding two spaces beyond that last 
character. This is done in line 910 of 
TXTEDIT2. 

Leading Spaces 

The last task for our text editor is to 
make certain that no line of print begins 
with a space. If the preceding sentence ends 
exactly at the end of the last print line, 
the next two characters to be printed will 
be the trailing spaces of the last sentence. 
Prior to printing each line, we must there- 
fore test to see if the first character of that 
line is a space. If it is, it is skipped and the 
line retested for another leading blank. 
When the first character is finally not a 
space, we retest the length of the line to be 
printed, since after incrementing E while 
skipping the leading blanks, E may have 
grown larger than the length of E$. This 
sequence starts in line 590 of TXTEDIT2. 

More Sophistication 

Though not demonstrated in TXTEDIT2, 
there are other text editing techniques 
you might like to try. The right margin 
may be justified by determining the length 
of a line as it will be finally printed, sub- 
tracting that from the requested line length, 
and thereby calculating the number of addi- 
tional blanks that must be inserted in the 
line to make it equal the requested length. 
Starting at the last character and moving 
backwards, test for a blank and insert one 
of the extra blanks in that space; then on 
to the next blank. An intermediate string 
variable must be set up in which all the 
characters from the end to the first space 
encountered from the end will be renum- 



bered from the requested line length L, 
on down. The extra space may be added, 
and then the next word (heading backwards) 
is added to the intermediated string variable, 
etc, until the required number of spaces 
have been added. If the line is exhausted 
before all the needed spaces have been 
added, run through the string again, adding 
more. 

Form feeding at the end of a page to the 
top of the next page may be implemented 
by adding a counting variable to the loop 
that prints each line of text. When the 
counter reaches the requested page length 
(in lines), the program jumps to a subroutine 
which issues the number of PRINTs speci- 
fied to reach the top of the next page. If 
the page length and page spacing are entered 
as variables, the page size may be varied 
from address labels to poster size sheets. 

A line oriented text editor allowing 
modification of the text after input could 
be implemented by displaying several 
lines at a time, each with a number. Then, 
by asking the user if there are any changes 
to be made to any of the lines, and re- 
questing the particular line number, the 
program may redefine the string variable 
containing that line to contain a newly 
entered line. A little cleverness with the 
use of the INP(expr) instruction might 
allow the user to space over the unchanged 
portions of the line, and change only the 
part typed over. 

A Note About TXTEDIT2 

In North Star BASIC, the PRINT, 
INPUT, LIST, and LINE instructions allow 
an optional specification of the input/ 
output (IO) device to be used with the 
instruction. By using PRINT#1, the serial 
IO port is selected. By writing a program 
with a variable in place of the device select 
number, it may be user selected to run 
on any of the available devices. This was 
done in TXTEDIT2 and may be changed 
to the usual PRINT and INPUT instructions 
for use with other BASlCs. 

Conclusions 

While TXTEDIT2 cannot be merely 
appended to your BASIC programs, the 
techniques discussed in this article and 
demonstrated in TXTEDIT2 will enable 
you to select the text editing functions 
you need and synthesize them into an 
efficient part of your own programs. Any 
suggestions you may have regarding this 
material or other text editing functions 
will be welcomed." 



April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 39 



Gispcia's Circuit Gellap 



Copyright © 1980 by Steven A Ciarcia. All 



Ease Into 16-Bit Computing 

Part 2: Examining a Small Multi-User System 



In computer club meetings, in soft- 
ware-development groups, and 
among hardware designers, the terms 
multiprogramming, multiprocessing, 
and multitasking are often heard. 
Now that we have a few years of 
experience in microprocessing, the 
prefix multi has become prevalent. I 
define multi as an indication of the 
ability of a system to seemingly pro- 
cess more than one function at a time. 

Multiprogramming, as I refer to it, 
is a form of program execution that 
allows more than one user to access 
the resources of a computer system at 
(apparently) the same time. Rather 
than denoting the execution of multi- 
ple programs simultaneously, which 
requires the use of more than one pro- 
cessor, multiprogramming implies a 
division of a single processor's time 
and resources. A computer executes 
commands faster than any single 
human user can enter data or instruc- 
tions. A user in such a situation may 
never realize that there are other users 
connected to the same computer. 

Because the input and output are 
being performed by the operator at 
human speed (which is extremely 
slow relative to the speed of the 
microprocessor), most of the pro- 
cessor's time in a single-user system is 
spent waiting for the operator to 
enter information, or for an output 
device to display the information 
being sent by the processor. The ratio 

40 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Steve Ciarcia 

POB 582 

Glastonbury CT 06033 



of time the computer spends in useful 
activity to time the computer spends 
waiting is very small. Multiprogram- 
ming takes advantage of this relative- 
ly large amount of wait time by using 
it to execute a request from one of the 
other concurrent users. Of course, as 
the number of users on the system 
increases, the operator response time 



Surprisingly little hard- 
ware is required to support 
a multi-user system run- 
ning Tiny BASIC. 



(ie: the amount of time it takes for the 
computer to respond to a specific 
request from an operator) will 
become longer and longer until it 
reaches some unacceptable limit. In 
order to maximize the number of 
users that may use the system concur- 
rently with acceptable response time, 
the operating system may be tailored 
to a particular type of application. 

Your first question may be, "How 
much hardware is required to support 
a multi-user system running a high- 
level language such as BASIC?" The 
answer: surprisingly little. Because of 
the 16-bit processing features of the 
Intel 8088, which I outlined last 



month, a multi-user operating system 
can be provided with a computer con- 
sisting of as few as five integrated cir- 
cuits. 

It is beyond the scope of this article 
to discuss and list the entire assembly 
code of the Tiny BASIC system writ- 
ten for the 8088. The assembly listing 
of the 2 K-byte interpreter is thirty- 
one pages long. 

Readers who are interested in using 
the 8088 for a similar application are 
advised to contact the manufacturer 
directly. Intel is publishing an appli- 
cation note describing a small (seven 
integrated circuits) multi-user Tiny 
BASIC system that uses the 8088. 
There was discussion at the time of 
this writing (January 1980) that a 
printed-circuit board of the expanded 
circuit would be available for sale as 
well. 

For this information contact: 

Tom Cantrell 

Marketing Communications 

Intel Corporation 

3065 Bowers Ave 

Santa Clara CA 95051 

Minimum System Hardware 

The five integrated circuits re- 
quired to build a workable system in- 
clude the 8088 microprocessor; the 
8284 clock generator; the 8155 
memory, input/output (I/O), and 
timer device; and the 8185 erasable 
programmable read-only memory 






POWER-ONE 
D.C. POWER SUPPLIES 

Now available for small systems applications 

Power-One, the leader in quality open-frame power supplies, now offers a complete line of single, dual, 
and triple output models for small computer systems. Also available are special purpose models for 
Floppy Disk and Microcomputer applications. 
Below are just a few popular examples of the over 90 ' 'off the shelf" models now available from stock. 



SINGLE OUTPUT & 
LOGIC POWER SUPPLIES 

• 56 "off the shelf" 
models 

•2Vto250V,0.1Ato40A 

• ± .05% regulation 

• 115/230 VAC input 



FLOPPY-DISK SERIES 

•8 "off the shelf" 
models 

• Powers most popular 
drives 

• Single/dual drive 
applications 

• 2-year warranty 



5V@3A,w/OVP 




HB5-3/OVP 
$24.95 single qty. 



5V @ 0.7A, w/OVP 
12V @ 1.1A/1.7APK* 




CP340 

For one 5.25" Media Drive 

$44.95 singie qty. 



5V@ 12A, w/OVP 




HD5-12/OVP 
$79.95 singie qty. 



5V@1A,w/OVP 
-5V@0.5A, w/OVP 
24V @ 1.5A/1.7APK 



h :—-.~ 



CP205 

For one 8.0*' Media Drive 

$69.95 single qty. 



5V@40A, w/OVP 



^v 



^m 






SK5-40/OVP 
Switching Model 
$250.00 single qty. 



5V @ 2.5A, w/OVP 
-5V<g)0.5A, w/OVP 
24V@3A/3.4APK 




CP206 

For two 8.0'VMedia Drives 

$91. 95 single qty. 




12V/15V@0.25A 



DUAL OUTPUT MODELS 

• 15 "off the shelf" 
models 

• ± 5V to ± 24V, 0.25A 
to 6 A 

• I.C. regulated 

• Full rated to + 50°C 



4§iv 




5V@2A, w/OVP 
9-15V@0.5A 



±12V@1.7Aor 

± 15V @ 1.5 A 




HAD12-.25/HAD15-.25 
$32.95 single qty. 



HAA512 

$44-95 single qty. 



HBB15-1.5 
$49.95 single qty. 



TRIPLE OUTPUT 
MODELS 

• 10 "off the shelf" 
models 

• 5V plus ± 9V to 
± 15V outputs 

• Models from 16W to 
150W 

• Industry standard size 



5V@2A, w/OVP 

± 9Vto ± 15V#0.4A 




5V@3A, W/OVP 
±12V@ 1Aor 

±15V@0.8A 



5V @ 6A, w/OVP 
±12V@ 1.7Aor 
+ 15V@ 1.5A 





HTAA-16W 
$49.95 single qty. 



HBAA-40W 
$69,95 single qty. 



HCBB-75W 

$91. 95 single qty. 







NEW 79' CATALOG! 

Get Your FREE Copy Now! 

Phone us direct or circle the reader service 
number below. 




power- one 




D.C. POWER SUPPLIES 



Power One Drive • Camarillo, CA 93010 • (805) 484-2806 • TWX 910-336-1297 



Circle 52 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 41 



Circle 17 on inquiry card. 



The days of complicated, unreliable, 
dynamic RAM are gone: 




$199. 



the ultrabyte memory board 



QC I complete kit \ 
%J %M y with WK memory J 



Netronics consistently offers innovative products at un- 
beatable prices. And here we go again — with JAWS, 
the ultrabyte 64K S100 memory board. 
ONE CHIP DOES IT ALL 
JAWS solves the problems of dynamic RAM with a 
state-of-the-art chip from Intel that does it all. Intel's 
single chip 64K dynamic RAM controller eliminates 
high-current logic parts . . . delay lines . . . massive 
heat sinks . . . unreliable trick circuits. 
REMARKABLE FEATURES OF JAWS 
Look what JAWS offers you: Hidden refresh . . . fast 
performance . . . low power consumption . . . latched 
data outputs ... 200 NS 4116 RAMs . . . on-board 
crystal . . . 8K bank selectable . . . fully socketed . . . 
solder mask on both sides of board . . . designed for 
8080, 8085, and Z80 bus signals . . . works in Explorer, 
Sol, Horizon, as well as all other well-designed S100 
computers. 

I ME YOUR COMPUTER A BIG BYTE OF MEMORY | 
POWER WITH JAWS —SAVE UP TO *90 ON I 

INTRODUCTORY LIMITED-OFFER SPECIAL PRICES! | 

UNDECIDED? TRY A WIRED ISK JAWS IN YOUR COMPUTER ON OUR 
W-DAY MONEY- BACK OFFER (SPECIFY YOUR COMPUTER) 



CONTINENTAL U.S.* CREDIT CARD BUYERS OUTSIDE CONNECTICUT CALL 



From Ccnnacticut Or For Aamtanc 

I5METR0NKSE 



CALL TOLL FREE 800-243-7428 

From CofiMCticirtOr For Ajjisii.net. (203) 354-9375 DeDt 

"{RESEARCH & b 
(DEVELOPMENT LTD J 

333 Litchfield Road, New Mi IfordXT 06776 
Please send the items checked below: 

□ JAWS 16K RAM kit, No. 6416, $199.95.* 

□ JAWS 16K RAM fully assembled, tested, burned in, 
No. 6416W, $229.95.* 

□ JAWS 32K RAM kit, No. 6432, (reg. price $329.95), 
SPECIAL PRICE $299.95* 

□ JAWS 32K RAM fully assembled, tested, burned in, 
No. 6432W, (reg. price $369.95), SPECIAL PRICE 
$339.95.* 

I JAWS 48K RAM kit. No. 6448, (reg. price $459.95), 
SPECIAL PRICE $399,95.* 

□ JAWS 48K fully assembled, tested, burned in, No. 
6448W, (reg. price $509.95). SPECIAL PRICE 
$449,95.* 

□ JAWS 64K RAM kit, No. 6464, (reg. price $589.95), 
SPECIAL PRICE $499.95* 

□ JAWS 64K RAM fully assembled, tested, burned in, 
No. 6464W, (reg. price $649.95), SPECIAL PRICE 
$559.95.* 

D Expansion kit, JAWS 16K RAM module, to expand 
any of the above in 16K blocks up to 64K, No. 16EXP, 
$129.95.* 

*AII prices plus $2 postage and handling. Connecticut 
residents add sales tax. 

Total enclosed: $ _____ 



□ Personal Check □ Money order or Cashiers Check 

□ VISA D MASTER CHARGE (Bank No ) 

Acct. No. Exp Date 

Signature _____ _____ 

Print Name — . 

Address 

City __ __ „__ 

State Zip 



] Send me more information 



PIN CONFIGURATION 



la 



PC 3 
PC 4 

TIMER IN 

RESET 

PCs 

timer out [ 

io/mC 

cT[ 

rd[ 

WR [ 
ALE [ 
■ AD [ 
ADi C 
AD 2 [ 
AD 3 
AD 4 [ 
AD 5 
AD 6 [ 
AD 7 

v S sC 



~ _■ 

40 

8155/ 39 
8155-2 38 

37 

36 

35 

34 

33 

32 

31 

30 

29 

28 

27 

26 

25 

24 

23 

22 

21 



PIN CONFIGURATION 



lb 



PROG AND CEj 

CE 2 [ 

CLK [ 

RESET [ 

VddC 

READY [ 
IO/M [ 

Tor [ 

rd [ 

low [ 

ALE [ 
AD [ 
ADi [ 
AD 2 [ 
AD 3 [ 
AD 4 [ 
AD 5 
AD 6 [ 
AD 7 [ 



¥ SS 



40 ] V CC 

8755A/ 39]PB ? 
8755A-2 38 ] P8 6 

37 ] pb 5 

36 ] PB 4 

35 ] PB 3 

34 ] PB 2 

33 ] PBx 

32 ] PB 

31 ] PA 7 

30 ]PA 6 

29 ]PA 5 

28 ] PA 4 

27 ]PA 3 

26 ] PA 2 

25 ]PAi 

24 ]PA 

23 ] Aid 

22 ] A 9 

21 ] A 8 



8155 



BLOCK DIAGRAM 



]v C c 

]PC 2 
]PCi 

] pc 

] PB 7 
] PB 6 
] PB 5 
] PB 4 
] PB 3 
] PB 2 
]PBi 
]PB 
]PA 7 
]PA 6 
]PA 5 
]PA 4 
] PA 3 
]PA 2 
]PAi 
]PA 



IO/M — 

AD 0- 7 O 

CE — 

ALE — 

RD — 

WR — 

RESET — 



256X8 
STATIC 
MEMORY 



[ TIMER | 



TIMER CLK ■ 



TIMER OUT +- 



PORT A 



( 8 ) PA 0-7 



PORTS 

C_Z} PB <>- 



PORTC 
( 6 ) PC -5 



-V CC ( + 5V) 
•V SS (0V) 



8755A 



BLOCK DIAGRAM 



CLK 



READY *- 

AD 0-?O 



A 8-10 

CE 2 • 

IO/M ■ 

ALE • 

RD • 

iow • 

RESET " 

For : 



d 



2KX8 

EPROM 



_ f f f t 

PROG/CEj 1 - 



V DD 



PORT A 



PORT B 



PA 



0-7 



PBo-7 



-V CC ( + 5V) 
-V SS (0V) 



Figure 1: Integrated circuits that perform support functions for the 8088 in the 

minimum-configuration system discussed in this article. 

(la) The 8155 static memory, I/O, and timer device, 

(lb) The 8755A EPROM and I/O device. 

(1c) The 8185 1 K-hyte static memory part. 

(Id) The 8284 clock generator/ driver device. 



(EPROM) and I/O device, all from 
Intel Corporation. 

The 8088, residing in a 40-pin 
package, executes the complete 16-bit 
instruction set of the 8086 micro- 
processor, while communicating over 
an 8-bit data bus. The 8088 was dis- 



cussed last month in Part 1. 

The 8155, shown in figure la, is 
also in a standard 40-pin dual in-line 
package (DIP). It provides 256 8-bit 
words of static memory and is 
powered by a single +5 V power 
supply. Since it is static memory, no 



42 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



PIN CONFIGURATION 



8185 



BLOCK DIAGRAM 



lc 



AD [ 




18 


ADjE 
AD 2 [ 


2 17 

8185 

3 16 


AD 3 [ 


4 


15 


AD 4 [ 


5 


14 


AD 5 [ 


6 


13 


AD 6 [ 




12 


AD 7 [ 


8 


11 


v ss[ 


9 


10 



]v cc 

]RD 
] WR 
] ALE 
]CS 

]CEi 
]CE 2 
]A 9 

]*8 



AD -A 



°?c 



_cs 

CEl- 
CEj 

RD 

WR 
ALE 



A8.A9 
ALE 



READ/WRITE 
LOGIC 











DATA 

BUS 

BUFFER 



ADDRESS 
LATCH 



1KX8 

PROGRAMMABLE 
MEMORY ARRAY 



X-Y DECODE 
<^> 



PIN CONFIGURATION 



8284 



BLOCK DIAGRAM 



Id 



CYSNC 

PCLK 

AEN1 

RDY1 

READY 

RDY2 

AEN2 

CLK 

GND 



T7 



]v cc 
]xi 

]X2 
] TNK 

3efi 
] f/c 

] OSC 
] RES 

] RESET 



RES 

XI 
X2 

TANK 



F/C 

EFI 

CSYNC 
RDY1 
AEN1 
A EN 2 
RDY2 











% 


s 


















? 


3 v 

:k 






CRYSTAL 
OSCILLATOR 


K- 



















1 










► » 


h*. — * 




SYNC 


i 

i 






\s° L 


SL^ 


1 

► 


SYNC 

1 






»» 




mm S 1 1 
















^ 


3-- 


CK 
D Q 




_rv 








— ^ 


1 ^ 




H>^H>t 


I > 

















RESET 



OSC 
CLK 



* PCLK 



READY 



refresh circuitry is required. 

In addition to the memory and a 
programmable timer, the 8155 also 
provides two programmable 8-bit 
I/O ports and one 6-bit program- 
mable I/O port. The high-order bit of 
port B is chosen as the serial input line 
for one of the two user terminals, and 
the low-order bit of port A is used as 
the serial output line for the same ter- 
minal. 

Figure lb presents the internal 
block diagram of the 8755 A. The 



8755 A combines EPROM and I/O 
functions. The EPROM contains the 
system software; the I/O ports serve 
the second user's terminal. 

The last major part in the system is 
the 8185, which contains 1 K bytes of 
static memory. (See figure lc.) It is 
used by the system as the major block 
of memory allocated for program 
storage. 

All of these integrated circuits are 
specifically designed to work with the 
multiplexed address and data buses. 



Hence, there is no need to have any 
outside latches to provide address 
signals for their operation. Address 
latching for each device is provided 
internally. 

All of the integrated circuits used in 
this design are directly compatible 
with the 5 MHz signal which is gen- 
erated by the 8284 clock generator 
(figure Id); however, the 8155 timer/ 
counter appears to work better if 
driven by the 2.5 MHz signal that is 
output on the PCLK line of the 8284. 



April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 43 



Figure 2 is a diagram that demon- 
strates the flow of data in the 5-chip 
system, as well as the addresses of the 
memory and the I/O ports. To allow 
for service to multiple simultaneous 
users, the timer-in line in the 8155 is 
wired to the PCLK line in the 8284. 



Also, the timer-out line is tied to the 
nonmaskable interrupt (NMI) line of 
the 8088 microprocessor. 

Developing the Operating System 

There are many problems asso- 
ciated with writing a BASIC inter- 





p* 


'■ *£ : r* 


::*. • 


ii : : : y, \ * 1 




™ ^ 




a 1 


bpI I 




|HPIiHH|^HH|^&fj 


♦....♦,.. 


, 








HjhMII^^I 




m * * ■ 






K [ * II 

SULf r 1 

Pr * * * « ^H 



Photo 1: This 8088 system fits in the palm of your hand and uses only five integrated 
circuits. It contains enough read-only and programmable memory, and sufficient 
peripheral interfaces, to support two 300 bps terminals, running a Tiny BASIC inter- 
preter on each. 




Photo 2: Side-by-side comparison of the 8755 EPROM, top, and the older 2708 
EPROM. The difference in package size is due to the presence of I/O ports on the 8755. 
The 8755 requires a single 5-V power supply and contains 2 K bytes of memory; the 
2708 requires three different power supply voltages (+5 V, +12 V, and —12 V) and 
contains 1 K bytes of EPROM. 

44 April 1980 © BYTE Publications lnc 



preter for such a limited system. Ap- 
proaches taken on large computers 
are not necessarily applicable. Tiny 
BASIC is usually written to work 
with one user taking up all of the 
resources of the system. In this case, 
the problem is to share the resources 
and allow more than one user (in this 
case, two users) to access the pro- 
cessor and the memory without inter- 
fering with any other user in the 
process. 

Allowing for the input and the out- 
put of the different users is easy, since 
the 8155 and the 8755 both provide 
two 8-bit I/O ports. All that is needed 
is to use one of the two for input and 
the other for output. One bit of data 
is shifted in or out at each interrupt 
from the timer. 

The data rate for communication 
with the user terminals is obtained by 
using the programmable timer in the 
8155 as a data-rate generator. The 
14-bit binary counter is preset during 
the initialization routine of the 
system. Once set, the counter 
continuously counts up and generates 
an interrupt signal when it reaches the 
specified value. 

The value set in the counter deter- 
mines the data-transfer rate. In this 
system the counter value is contained 
in the EPROM, and is therefore not 
easily changed. The data rate must be 
chosen and the counter value com- 
puted before programming the 
EPROM. 

Dividing the memory between 
users is an easy task. All that is need- 
ed is to assign each user specific areas 
to be used for program space, buffers, 
and stacks. This does limit the size of 
the programs that may be entered by 
each user, but from an operating- 
system viewpoint, the assignment of 
space is an easy task. A memory map 
is outlined in figure 3. 

The problem of memory allocation 
in this situation is getting the pro- 
cessor to differentiate between users, 
buffers, and programs. Since there 
are 2 K bytes of EPROM to contain 
all of the system programs, it would 
be easy for the operating system to 
use all of the memory space in just 
initializing the two user terminals. An 
easy, efficient method of differen- 
tiating the two users is required. 

Another consideration in the in- 
terest of total system efficiency is the 
allocation of more execution time to 
one of the users if the other user has 
his job executing some kind of I/O 



°ANOi CONTROLS IN 



VmI 



i-tit-i; 



1*1 



1 •TTLDM7Q0 



) IIT 

e 


U 


r 

1 


9 


i 
SI 





i 


■■"■ iBiil 

, VVIV'V 


^HjElIJSl 






i ... 

r, :i". 


















<t«*nrt«f»i\ 



' ** TV-; '■■/"vV* v~>'v? tf j* 

° ft £ ■-• n *-» ■"? 3"***- « « - 



MI ■' HI ■HP 

K H ■ 

HI - g H " g ^Hi 

■t n ^ ■ 

HE Hi 

|H K ■ H {I 



II I II 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ilBilJMilB 



>ANK SELECT - 64K BYTE EXPANDABLE MEMORY BOARD 



IODEL DMB6400 SERI 
ILLY COMPATIBLE WITH: 

ALPHA MICRO 

CROMEMCO 

NORTH STAR 

MP/M 

nd most other 
-100 systems 





Four independent, 16K software 

selectable banks. - -^ ■, .. . ; ; ; 

Switch selectable bank sizes — 

from 16K to 64K in 16K increment 

Eight banks (512K) per I/O port fc 

each of the 256 ports. 

Z-80 4MHz operation with no 

wait states. 

Low power — 8 watts maximum. 

Reliable, tested and burned-in 

memory 

ONE YEAR GUARANTEE 
i IEEE S-100 compatible timing. 
> Attractive Dealer &. OEM Prices 



MEASUREM o 

systems &. co 

incorporated 



i Ora 



BYTE April 1980 45 




CRYSTAL 

Dh 



V CC 



m 



I 



xi 



RES 



*2 

CLK 
READY 

8284 

RESET 



CLK 

8088 
READY 

MN/MX 

ALE 

RD 

RST WR 

10/M 



Figure 2: Diagram of connections and 
data flow in the five-chip 8088 two-user 
system. 



v ss Vcc 



CE 

PORT 

WR A 



RD 
ALE 



PORT 
8 



PORT 
DATA/ C 

ADDR 

IN 
10/M TIMER 
RESET 



OUT 
8155 



8155 

Memory, I/O, Timer 

A = out, User 1 

B 7 = in, User 1 




IOW 8355/ 
— 8755A 
RD 



ALE 
CE 

A 8-10 

DATA/ 
ADDR 

10/M 
RESET 



PORT 
A 



PORT 
B 



IOR 



B755A 

EPROM and I/O 

A = out, User 2 

B 7 = in, User 2 



v cc 



— f 

IOR 1 



t t t t 

V SS V CC V DD PR °G 




8185 

Static programmable 
memory 



Device 

8155 
8185 
8755A 



Type 

programmable 

programmable 

EPROM 



Hexadecimal Address 

00 thru FF 

1000 thru 13FF 

0F800 thru OFFFF 



Table 1: Memory addressing in the 8088 system. 



Device 


Function 


Hexadecimal 
Address 


8155 


Command-Status 

Register 

Port A 

Port B 

PortC 

Timer (low) 

Timer (high) 


00 

01 
02 
03 
04 
05 


8755A 


Port A 
Port B 

Data-Direction 
Register A 
Data-Direction 
Register B 

Table 2: I/O addressing in the 8088 system. 


F000 
F001 
F002 

F003 



wait loop. Normally, the processor 
will switch the current user-task being 
executed each time it receives an 
interrupt from the timer. This way, 
each user-task will receive an equal 
amount of execution time on the 
system. 

However, while the system is wait- 
ing for a user to enter commands or 
while it is sending information to the 
terminal, it has no productive task to 
perform for that user. If both users 
are in an I/O mode, as at system- 
startup time, then the processor 
enters a wait loop, waiting for the in- 
terrupts from the timer. This way, as 
much as possible, the processor will 
split time with both users effectively. 



Solving the Problems 

The biggest concern, differentia- 
tion between the two users and their 
respective buffers and programs, was 
the easiest to solve with the 8088 
microprocessor. This processor, like 



46 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



CP/M ■ VERSION 2 FOR TRS-80 



P CP/M FLOPPY DISKETTE OPERATING SYSTEM - 

(H) Packages supplied on diskette complete with 8080 
assembler, text editor, 8080 debugger and various 
utilities plus full documentation. CP/M available con- 
figured for most popular computer/disk systems in- 
cluding: North Star Single, Double or Quad density, 
Altair 8' r disks, Helios li, Exidy Sorcerer, Vector MZ, 
Heath H17f or H89t, TRS-80t, iCOM 3712 and iCOM 
Micro Disk plus many other configurations available 
off the shelf $145/525 

□ CP/M version 2 (not all formats available immediately) 

, $170/$25 

D MP/M* 5300/$5g 



Clll. ... iO^hoA^tpMcLd a^& 

MICROSOFT 

□ BASIC-80-Disk Extended BASIC, ANSI compatible 
© with long variable names, WHILE/WEND, chaining, 
M variable length file records $30Q7$25 

□ BASIC COMPILER - Language compatible with 
(l) BASIC-80 and 3-10 times faster execution. Produces 
<Qj standard Microsoft relocatable binary output, In- 
cludes MACRO-80 Also linkable to FORTRAN-80 or 
COBOL-80 code modules $350/$25 

n FORTRAN-80 -ANSI 66 (except for COMPLEX) plus 
(l) many extensions. Includes relocatable object com- 
(B) piler, linking loader, library with manager. Also in- 

-' eludes MACRO-80 (see below) $400/525 

Q COBOL-80 - Level 1 ANSI 74 standard COBOL plus 
(l) most of Level 2. Full sequential, relative, and in- 
A dexed file support with variable file names. STRING, 
UNSTRING, COMPUTE, VARYING/UNTIL, EXTEND, 
CALL, COPY, SEARCH, 3-dimensional arrays, com- 
pound and abbreviated conditions, nested IF. Power- 
ful interactive screen-handling extensions. Includes 
compatible assembler, finking loader, and relocat- 
able library manager as described under MACRO-80 
$625/$25 

lj MACRO-80 - 8080/Z80* Macro Assembler. Intel and 
(l) Zilog mnemonics supported. Relocatable linkable 
(S) output. Loader, Library Manager and Cross Refer- 
ence List utilities included $149/$15 

□ XMACRO-86 - 8086 cross assembler. All Macro and 
(T) utility features of MACRO-80 package. Mnemonics 

slightly modified from Intel ASM86. Compatibility data 
sheet available $275/$25 

□ EOIT-80 — Very fast random access text editor for text 
ft) with or without line numbers. Global and infra-line 

commands supported. File compare utility included. 
$S9/$15 



DIGITAL RESEARCH 

D MAC - 8080 Macro Assembler. Full Intel macro defi- 
nitions. Pseudo Ops include RPC, IRP, REPT, TITLE. 
PAGE, and MACLIB. Z80 library included. Produces 
Intel absolute hex output plus symbols file for use by 
SID (see below) $120/515 

□ SID — 8080 symbolic debugger. Full trace, pass count 
and break-point program testing system with back- 
trace and histogram utilities. When used with MAC, 
provides full symbolic display of memory labels and 
equated values $105/515 

□ ZSID - As above for Z80. Requires Z80 CPU $130/525 
p TEX - Text formatter to create paginated, page-num- 
bered and justified ccpy from source text files, direct- 
able to disk or printer $105/515 

□ OESPOOL — Program to permit simultaneous printing 
of data from disk while user executes another pro- 
gram from the console $80/$5 

MICRO FOCUS 

□ STANDARD CIS COBOL - ANSI '74 COBOL stand- 
(D ard compiler fully validated by U.S. Navy tests to 

ANSI level 1. Supports many features to level 2 in- 
cluding dynamic loading of COBOL modules and a 
full ISAM file facility. Also, program segmentation, 
interactive debug and powerful interactive extensions 
to support protected and unprotected CRT screen 
formatting from COBOL programs used with any 
dumb terminal $850/$50 

□ FORMS 2 - CRT screen editor. Output is COBOL data 
q descriptions for copying into CIS COBOL programs. 

Automatically creates a query and update program of 
indexed files using CRT protected and unprotected 
screen formats. No programming experience needed. 
Output program directly compiled by CIS COBOL 
(standard) 5200/520 

□ HOBS- Hierarchical Data Base System. CODASYL 
oriented with FILEs, SETs, RECORDS and ITEMs 
which are all user defined. ADD, DELETE, UPDATE, 
SEARCH, and TRAVERSE commands supported. SET 
ordering is sorted, FIFO, LIFO. next or prior. One to 
many set relationship supported. Read/Write protec- 
tion at the FILE level. Supports FILEs which extend 
over multiple floppy or hard disk devices. 

□ MDBS— Micro Data Base System. Full network data 
base with all features of HDBS plus multi-level Read/ 
Write protection for FILE, SET, RECORD and ITEM. 
Explicit representation of one to one, one to many, 
many to many, and many to one SET relationships. 
Supports multiple owner and multiple record types 
within SETs. HDBS files are fully compatible. 

r| MDBS-DRS - MDBS with Dynamic Restructuring Sys- 
tem option which allows altering MDBS data bases 
when new ITEMs. RECORDS, or SETs are needed 
without changing existing data. 

HDBS-Z80 version $250/535 

MDBS-Z80 version 5750/535 

,y MDBS-DRS-Z80 version $850/540 

XY/ 8080 Version available at $75. extra. 

y ^Z80 version requires 20K RAM. 8080 version requires 
/ ' 24K RAM. (Memory requirements are additional to 
CP/M and application program.) 
When ordering HDBS or MDBS please specify if the 
version required is for 1) Microsoft L80 i.e. FOR- 
TRAN-80, COBOL-80. BASIC COMPILER, 2) MBAS1C 
4. XX, or 3) BASIC-80 5.0. 

Prices andspecifications subject tochangewithoutnotice. 



MODEL II NOW AVAILABLE &*•&*,« 

a surcharge of $8. per 

EIDOS SYSTEMS 

□ KISS — Keyed Index Sequential Search. Offers com- 
(T) plete Multi-Keyed Index Sequential and Direct Ac- 
cess file management. Includes built-in utility func- 
tions for 16 or 32 bit arithmetic, string/integer conver- 
sion and string compare. Delivered as a relocatable 
linkable module in Microsoft format for use with 
FORTRAN-80 or COBOL-80, etc $335/523 

□ KBASIC - Microsoft Disk Extended BASIC with all 
(l) KISS facilities, integrated by implementation of nine 

additional commands in language. Package includes 
KISS. REL as described above, and a sample mail 

list program $585/545 

To licensed users of Microsoft BASIC-80 (MBASIC) 
5435/545 

MICROPRO 

P SUPER-SORT 1 — Sort, merge, extract utility as abso- 

lute executable program or linkable module in Micro- 

(g; soft format, Sorts fixed or variable records with data 

in binary, BCD, Packed Decimal, EBCDIC, ASCII, 

floating, fixed point, exponential, field justified, etc. 

Even variable number of fields per record! .5225/525 

□ SUPER-SORT II — Above available as absolute pro- 
©@ gram only $175/525 

P SUPER-SORT III - As I! without SELECT/EXCLUDE 
0® $125/$25 

□ WORD-STAR — Menu driven visual word processing 
system for use with standard terminals. Text format- 
(fi) ting performed on screen. Facilities for text paginate, 

page number, justify, center and underscore.. User 
can print one document while simultaneously editing 
a second. Edit facilities include global search and 
replace, Read/Write to other text files, block move, 
etc. Requires CRT terminal with addressable cursor 

positioning $445/$40 

Q WORD-STAR/MAIL-MERGE - As above with option 
for production mailing of personalized documents 
(H) with mail list from Datastar or NAD $575/525 

□ WORD-STAR Customization Notes -For sophisticated 
users who do not have one of the many standard 
terminal or printer configuralions in the distribution 
version of WORD-STAR NA/$95 

L~] WORD-MASTER Text Editor— In one mode has super- 

set of CP/M's ED commands including global search- 

(g) ing and replacing, forwards and backwards in file in 

video mode, provides full screen editor for users with 

serial addressable-cursor terminal $125/$25 

H DATASTAR — Professional forms control entry and 
display system for key-to-disk data capture. Menu 
(g) driven with built-in learning aids. Input field verifica- 
tion by length, mask, attribute (i.e. uppercase, lower- 
case, numeric, auto dup., etc.). Built-in arithmetic 
capabilities using keyed data, constants and derived 
values. Visual feedback for ease of forms design. 
Files compatible with all CP/M-MP/M supported lan- 
guages. Requires 32K CP/M 



ft 



CBASIC-2 Disk Extended BASIC - Non-interactive 
BASIC with pseudo-code compiler and runtime in- 
terpreter. Supports full file control, chaining, integer 

and extended precision variables, etc $109/515 

PASCAL/M* — Compiler generates P code from ex- 
tended language, implementation of standard PAS- 
CAL. Supports overlay structure through additional 
procedure calls and the SEGMENT procedure type. 
Provides convenient string handling capability with 
the added variable type STRING. Untyped files allow 
memory image I/O. Requires 56K CP/M . . . $350/530 
PASCAL/Z - Z80 native code PASCAL compiler. Pro- 
duces optimized, ROMable re-entrant code. All inter- 
facing to CP/M is through the support library. The 
package includes compiler, companion macro-as- 
sembler and source for the library. Requires 56K 
and Z80 CPU. 
Version 2 includes all of Jensen/Wirth except variant 

records 5275/525 

Version 3 with variant records and strings expected 

3/80 5395/525 

PASCAL/MT - Subset of standard PASCAL. Gener- 
ates ROMable 8080 machine code. Symbolic debug- 
ger included. Supports interrupt procedures, CP/M 
file I/O and assembly language interface. Real vari- 
ables can be BCD, software floating point, or AMD 
9511 hardware floating point. Version 3 includes 
Sets, Enumeration and Record data types. Manual 
explains BASIC to PASCAL conversion. Source for 
the run time package requires MAC (See under Digi- 
tal Research). Requires 32K 5250/530 



STRUCTURED SYSTEMS GROUP 

lJ GENERAL LEDGER - Interactive and flexible system 
tt providing proof and report outputs. Customization of 
COA created interactively. Multiple branch account- 
ing centers. Extensive checking performed at data 
entry for proof, COA correctness, etc. Journal entries 
may be batched prior to posting. Closing procedure 
automatically backs up input files. Now includes 
Statement of Changes in Financial Position. Requires 

CBASIC-2 $1250/525 

n ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE - Open item system with 
tt output for internal aged reports and customer-ori- 
ented statement and billing purposes. On-Line En- 
quiry permits information for Customer Service and 
Credit departments. Interface to General Ledger pro- 
vided if both systems used. Requires CBASIC-2. 

51250/525 

P ACCOUNTS PAYABLE - Provides aged statements 
tt of accounts by vendor with check writing for selected 
invoices. Can be used alone or with General Ledger 
and/or with NAD. Requires CBASIC-2 . . . .$1250/$25 
□ PAYROLL — Flexible payroll system handles weekly, 
tt bi-weekly, semi-monthly and monthly payroll periods. 
Tips, bonuses, re-imbursements, advances, sick pay, 
vacation pay, and compensation time are all part of 
the payroll records. Prints government required peri- 
odic reports and will post to multiple SSG Genera! 
Ledger accounts. Requires CBASIC-2 and 54K of 
memory $1250/525 



>n on e" single density diskettes All Lifeboat programs require CP/M, unless otherwise stated. 

which requires additional diskettes, r ™ ^ 
additional diskette will be added 

Software / Sottwsrt I 

P INVENTORY CONTROL SYSTEM - Performs control \~ PAYROLL SYSTEM - Maintains employee master file. 

tt functions of adding and depleting stock items, add- ® Computes payroll withholding for FICA, Federal and 

ing new items and deleting old items. Tracks quantity Si State taxes. Prints payroll register, checks, quarterly 

of items on hand, on order and back-ordered. Op- tt reports and W-2 forms. Can generate ad hoc reports 

tional hard copy audit trail is available. Reports in- and employee form letters with mail labels. Requires 

elude Master Item List, Stock Activity, Stock Valua- CBASIC-2. Supplied in source 5590/535 

tion and Re-order List. Requires CBASIC-2 51250/525 n | NVENTO ry SYSTEM - Captures stock levels, costs, 

CI ANALYST — Customized data entry and reporting sys- © sources, sales, ages, turnover, markup, etc. Trans- 

tt tern. User specifies up to 75 data items per record, ® action information may be entered for reporting by 

Interactive data entry, retrieval, and update facility tt salesman, type of sale, date of sale, etc. Reports 

makes information management easy. Sophisticated available both for accounting and decision making, 

report generator provides customized reports using Requires CBASIC-2. Supplied in source . .5590/535 

selected records with multiple level break-points for □ JOB COSTING - Designed for general contractors, 

summarization. Requires CBASIC-2 $250/515 @ To be used interac tjvely wjt h other GRAHAM-DORIAN 

Q LETTERIGHT — Program to create, edit and type let- ® accounting packages for tracking and analysing ex- 

ters or other documents. Has facilities to enter, dis- tt penses. User establishes customized cost categories 

play, delete and move text, with good video screen and job phases. Permits comparison of actual versus 

presentation. Designed to integrate with NAD for estimated costs. Automatically updates GRAHAM- 

form letter mailings. Requires CBASIC-2 . .5200/525 DORIAN General Ledger or runs as stand alone sys- 

_, ., J . .. tern. Requires CBASIC-2. Supplied in source $995/535 

P NAD Name and Address selection system - interac- 
tive mail list creation and maintenance program with P APARTMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM - Financial 
output as full reports with reference data or restricted © management system for receipts and security de- 
information for mail labels. Transfer system for ex- ® posits of apartment projects. Captures data on va- 
traction and transfer of selected records to create tt cancies, revenues, etc. for annual trend analysis, 
new files. Requires CBASIC-2 $100/$20 Daily report shows late rents, vacancy notices, va- 

,-, ----- . - l .< • ai -.u .■ j cancies, income lost through vacancies, etc. Requires 

D QSORT - Fast sort/ merge program for files with fixed CBASIC-2. Supplied in source $590/$35 

record length, variable field length information. Up to 

five ascending or descending keys. Full back-up of CASH REGISTER - Maintains files on daily sales, 

input files created $100/520 © Files data by sales person and item. Tracks sales, 

® over-rings, refunds, payouts and total net deposits. 

,o . * *. . . tt Requires CBASIC-2. Supplied in source . . $590/535 

A a*/ ^"7**-* j>^ -X&-? ^ J/f/jCAJHsr^sfa D tiny C - Interactive interpretive system for teaching 

^O^U(4n^LC 7j<n^/(/((ASWKMrtsi4 lj str ' uc , ured programming techniques. Manual includes 

SA5/C <%C&A^/i£&L<! fu " source listings $105/$40 

~~ ' {'■ Q BDSC COMPILER — Supports most major features of 

PEACHTREE SOFTWARE @ language including Structures. Arrays. Pointers, re- 

P GENERAL LEDGER - Records details of all financial © cursive function evaluation, linking loader and ti- 
ff) transactions Generates a balance sheet and an in- , U.W brary. Floating point function library included. Lacks 
tt come statement. Flexible and adaptable design tofftFV.J data initialization and static and register class speci- 

boih small businesses and firms performing client ders. Documentation includes "THE C PROGRAM- 
writeup services Produces reports as follows: Trial \W V MING LANGUAGE" by Kernighan and Ritchie 

Balance, Transa> 's, Balance Sheet, Prior ' $125/515 

Year Comparative Balance Sheet, Income Statement, r- WHITESMITHS C COMPILER - The ultimate in sys- 

Prior Year Comparative Income Statement and De- ffl tems SO f twa re tools. Produces faster code than Pas- 

partment Income Statements. Interactive with other ^ cal with more extensive Eacfltttes Conforms to the 

PEACHTREE accounting packages. Supplied m W f uM UNIX* Version 7 C language, described by Kerni- 

source code for Microsoft BASIC 5990/530 ghan a nd Ritchie, and makes available over 75 func- 

D ACCOUNTS PAYABLE - Tracks current and aged *i°ns for performing I/O, string manipulation and 

© payables and incorporates a check writing feature. storage allocation. Linkable to Microsoft REL files 

tt Maintains a complete vendor file with information on Requires 60K CP/M $630/530 

purchase order id di lount terms as well as active _ pOLYVUE/80 - Full screen editor for any CRT with 
account status. Produces reports as follows: Open ^ X Y cursor positioning. Includes vertical and horizon- 
Voucher Report,;: Accounts Payable Ageing Report t al scrolling, interactive search and replace, auto- 
and Cash Requirements. Provides input to PEACH- matic text wrap around for word processing, opera- 
TREE Genera! Ledger. Supplied in source code for t ions for manipulating blocks of text, and compre- 

Microsoft BASIC $990/$30 hensive 70 page manual $135/515 

P ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE - Generates invoice regis- Q POLYTEXT/80 - Text formatter for word processing 
i ter and complete monthly statements. Tracks current jg, applications. Justifies and paginates source text files, 
tt and aged receivables. Maintains customer file includ- wmi generate form letters with custom fields and 
ing credit infor status. The cur- conditional processing. Support for Daisy Wheel 
rent status of ar iccotmt is instantly avail- printers includes variable pitch justification and mo- 
able. Produces reports as follows: Aged Accounts tion optimization $85/515 

Receivable, Invoice Register. Payment and Adjust- ..., mi „ „ , , L , , 

ment Register and Customer Account Status Report. □ ALGOL-60- Powerful block-structured language corn- 
Provides input to PEACHTREE General Ledger. Sup- P^ featuring economical run time dynamic a loca- 
plied in source code for Microsoft BASIC . .5990/530 <■«" of memory. Very compact (24K total RAM) sys- 
tem implementing almost all Algol 60 report features 
P PAYROLL- Prepares payroll for hourly, salaried and p [ us many powerful extensions including string han- 
© commissioned employees. Generates monthly, quar- dling direct disk address I/O etc. Requires Z80 

tt terly and annual returns. Pr spares employee W-2's. Qpy . .5199/520 

Includes tables for federal withholding and FICA as _, „_ ^_ ,„«».„.— ».«.„.—- - 

well as withhol iO stales plus up to 20 -■ Z80 DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE Consists of: (1) disk 

cities from pre-GOfflMed or user generated tables. ® file line edi,or < with 9 lobal inter ar l d ' n *Tf*^ facl "" 

Will print checks: Payroll Register, Monthly Summary u ^ ( 2 > z 80 relocating assembler, Zilog/Mostek mne- 

and Unemployment Tax Report. Provides input to monies, conditional assembly and cross reference 

PEACHTREE General Ledger. Supplied in source table capabilities; (3) linking loader producing abso- 

code for Microsoft BASIC $990/530 '"to lnt ei hex disk file 595/520 

P INVENTORY - Maintains detailed information on P 2DT - Z80 Monitor Debugger to break and examine 

•v each inventory item including part number, descrip- ® registers with standard Zilog/Mostek mnemonic dis- 

tt tion, unit of measure, vendor and reorder data, item assembly displays. $35 when ordered with Z80 Devef- 

activity and complete information on current item opment Package 550/510 

costs, pricing an uces reports as follows: r - D|STEL _ Qisk bgsed djsassembler t0 | nle , 808 or 

Physical Invent ■ ,et Inventory Price List, TDL/Xitan Z80 source code, listing and cross refer- 

Departmental Summary Report Inventory Status Re- fj[ , , , TDL / Xitan pse y ud0 ops optional, 

port, The Reorder Report and the Penod-to-Date and B „ nfl n cRi/cm 

Year-fo-Date reports Supplied in source code for Runs on 8080 $65/$10 

Microsoft BASIC 51,190/530 1 1 DISILOG - As DISTEL to Zilog/Mostek mnemonic 

(«) files. Runs on Z80 only 565/510 

MAILING ADDRESS - Keeps track of name and ad- 

l dress information and allows the selective printing of P XASM-68 - Non-macro cross-assembler with nested 

tt this information in the form of mailing lists or ad- conditionals and full range of pseudo operations. As 

dress labels. Allows the user to tailor the system to sembtes from standard Motorola MC6800 mnemonics 

his own particular requirements. User-defined for- to Intel hex $200/525 

mat and print-out system uses a special format file r XASM _ 65 -As XASM-68 for MOS Technology MCS- 

which tel s pro print the mailing list or 650fJ jes mriemonjcs $200/$25 

address label; Standard format files are included 

with system. Automatic sorting of data uses indexed i . TEXTWRITER ill - Text formatter to justify and pagi- 

file management routines which allow the name and ® "ate letters and other documents. Special features 

address information to be sequentially retrieved and include insertion of text during execution from other 

printed without file sorting. Supplied in source code disk files or console, permitting recipe documents 

for Microsoft BASIC $790/$30 to be created from linked fragments on other files. 

Has facilities for sorted index, table of contents and 

footnote insertions. Ideal for contracts, manuals, etc. 

GRAHAM-DORIAN SOFTWARE SYSTEMS Now compatible with Electric Pencil* prepared files. 

$125/$20 

GENERAL LEDGER - An on-line system; no balch- 

® ing is required. Entries to other GRAHAM-DORIAN □ POSTMASTER - A comprehensive package for mail 

H accounting packages are automatically posled, User , ® ,lst maintenance that is completely menu driven. 

.sblishes customized CO. A. Provides transaction , *yU Features include keyed record extraction and label 

register, record of journal entries, trial balances and '"J ,,„tJ> production. A form letter program is included which 

monthly closings. Keeps 14 month history and pro- \< J^ y P rovldes neat letters on single sheet or continu- 

vides comparison of current year with previous year. ^ ™s forms. Compahble with NAD files. Requires 

Requires CBASIC-2. Supplied in source . . .$995/$35 CBASIC-2 .5150/515 

P ACCOUNTS PAYABLE - Maintains vendor list and □ WHATSIT?* Interactive data-base system using as- 

© check register. Performs cash flow analysis. Flexible social ive tags to retrieve information by subject. 

® - writes checks to specific vendor for certain in- Hashing and random access used for fast response. 

t + voices or can make partial payments. Automatically Requires CBASIC-2 S1Z5/W5 

posts Jo GRAHAM-DORIAN General Ledger or runs as 
stand alone system. Requires CBASIC-2. Supplied in 

source $995/535 

P ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE - Creates trial balance re- 
© ports, prepares statements, ages accounts and rec- 
:h ords invoices. Provides complete information describ- 
tt ing customer payment activity, Receipts can be 

posted to different ledger accounts. Entries auto- | 

matically update GRAHAM-DORIAN General Ledger 1 

or runs as stand alone system. Requires CBASIC-2. \ 

Supplied in source 5995/535 % 



Shopping List No.11 



Software for most popular 8080/Z80 computer disk systems 
including NORTH STAR, iCOM, MICROPOLIS, DYNABYTE DB8/2 
& DB8/4, EXIDY SORCERER, SD SYSTEMS, ALTAIR, 
VECTOR MZ, MECA,8" IBM, HEATH H17 &H89, HELIOS, 
IMSAI VDP42 & 44, REX, NYLAC, INTERTEC, VISTA V80and V200, 
TRS-80 MODEL I and MODEL II, ALTOS, OHIO SCIENTIFIC 
DIGI-LOG, KONTRON PSt 80 and IMS 5000 formats. 



o*s 








TM V 



Lifeboat Associates, 2243 Broadway, n.y . n.y 10024 (212) 580-0062 Telex: 220501 



620 REM **+ INSTRUCTION IN I CHINGING 

630 CLS 

648 PRINT" THE I CHING IS ONE OF THE OLDEST BOOKS OF CHINESE PHILOSOPHY. 

656 PRINT"RLTHOUGH ITS RUTHORSHIP IS UNCERTAIN. IT IS CONFUCIAN IN MOOD. 

660 PRINT^TO CONSULT THE I CHING ONE MUST FIRST CONSTRUCT R HEXAGRAM, 

670 PR I NT" CONS I STING OF SIX LINES, EACH LINE OF EITHER OF TWO POSSIBLE 

680 PRINT"TVPES, BROKEN OR CONTINUOUS, RRRRNGED ONE ABGUE THE OTHER TO 

690 PRINT "FORM AN OPEN-SIDED RECTANGLE. 

780 PRINTER LINE HfiV LOOK LIKE THIS: 

718 F0RI=6T056ii SET< 1 , 23 > = NEXT I S F0RJ=66TQI 15s S£T<J, 23 > » NEXT 

720 PRINT*576, "OR IT MftV LOOK LIKE THIS- 

730 FOR I ^6TG i 1 5 s SET < 1 , 33 ) s NEXT 

740 PRINT£768, "AND THE POSITION OF THE LINE IN THE HEXAGRAM, AS WELL AS THE 

750 PRINT"TVPE OF LINE, IS IMPORTANT IN ITS INTERPRETATION. 

760 PRINTS INPUT"PRESS <EHTER> TO CONTINUE" JEN 

770 CLS:PRINT"THE HEXAGRAM IS COMPOSED OF TWO TRIGRAMS.. AH UPPER AND A LOWER. 

730 PRINT" EACH TRIGRAM, AS WELL AS EACH LINE IN IT, HAS INTERPRET I UE 

790 PRINT"POSSIBILITIES. 

800 PR I NT "SO VOUR CHANCES OF WORKING OUT SOLUTIONS TO THE PROBLEMS ON 

810 PR I NT "WHICH VOU CONSULT THE I CHING DEPEND UPON* 

820 PRINTS PRINT" A. THE HEXAGRAM VOU CAST, WHICH CAN BE fiNV OF 

830 PRINT" 64 POSSIBLE FORMS, RHD ITS UNIQUE DESCRIPTION* 

840 PRINT: PRINT" B. THE TYPES AMD POSITIONS OF THE TWO TRIGRRMS 

850 PRINT" WHICH COMPOSE IT <8 POSSIBLE TVPES>J AND THE 

860 PRINT: PRINT" C. TVPES RND POSITIONS OF ERCH OF THE SIX LINES, 

865 PRINT" READING FROM THE BOTTOM LINE UPWARDS. 

370 PR I NT SPRINT: INPUT "PRESS < ENTER > TO CONTINUE' 1 * 

880 CLS SPRINT SPRINT "IT IS EASV TO SEE THAT A LOT OF INFORMATION CAN BE DERI MED 

890 PRINT "FROM A SINGLE HEXAGRAM. IN FACT, VOUR OWN INTERPRETATION OF 

900 PR I NT "THE HEXAGRAM IS THE MOST IMPORTANT PART OF THE ACTION. 

910 PRINT" IT IS ESSENTIAL FOR VOU TO THINK SERIOUSLV ABOUT THE TEXT THAT 

920 PR I NT "DESCRIBES THE LINES, TRIGRAMS RND HEXRGRRMS, TO SEE HOW ITS 

930 PRINT"GENERRL MEANINGS CAN BE APFLIED TO VOUR PARTICULAR CASE." 

940 PR I NT "THIS PROGRAM WILL CAST A HEXRGRRM RT VOUR DISCRETION, AND IT 

950 PRINT"WILL PRINT OUT THE REFERENCE CODE OF THE HEXAGRAM IN THE LOWER 

960 PR I NT "LEFT HAND CORNER OF THE UIDEO SCREEN. THE FIRST DIGIT REFERS 

970 PRINT" TO THE BOTTOM LINE OF THE HEXAGRAM AND THE LAST DIGIT REPRE- 

980 PRINT"SENTS THE TOP LINE. AH ODD NUMBER O=0 MEANS A SOLID LINE AND 

990 PR I NT "AN EUEN NUMBER C6> IS A BROKEN LINE. SEE ANV I CHING TEXT FOR 

1806 PRINT" AN EXPLANATION OF ITS USE RND INTERPRETATION. " : PRINT 

1010 INPUT "PRESS <ENTER> TO RETURN TO THE MAIN PROGRAM" JEN 

1028 RETURN 






Make America smarter. 
Give to the college of your choice 




A shortage becomes a crisis only 
when there is a shortage of trained minds 
to solve it. And for today's manifold 
shortages, that means college-trained 
minds. 

Colleges are facing an altogether 
different kind of shortage. They're having 
to drop courses, fire professors, close 
laboratories, limit libraries. Without your 
help, we'll have the ultimate crisis on our 
hands: a shortage of ideas. 



April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 99 






Listing 1: Program to cast the I Ching, written in BASIC for the Radio Shack TRS-80, Level II microcomputer. The PRINT® 
statements cause output to appear at designated locations on the video display screen. The CLS statements cause the display screen to 
be cleared. 

10 REM *** CASTING THE I CHING 

28 REM *** PART I OF 2 PROGRAMS FOR USING THE ANCIENT CHINESE 

38 REM *** BOOH:: OF WISDOM CALLED THE I CHING 

49 REM *** THIS PROGRAM PROUIDES SOME BACKGROUND INSTRUCTION 

58 REM *** ALONG WITH FACILITIES FOR CASTING THE HEXAGRAMS. 

66 REM *** PART II WILL PROUIDE INTERPRET I UE DOCUMENTATION. 

70 REM *** PROGRAMS ARE BV E. STEWART DETHLEFSEN 

30 REM *** DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY 

90 REM *** COLLEGE OF WILLIAM & MARY 

108 REM *** WILLIAMSBURG, Ufl 23135 •::<804>253 4369 > 

110 REM *** COPYRIGHT 1988, EDWIN DETHLEFSEN 

129 CLS:PRINT£388, »+** THE OLD CHINESE SEER PRESENTS THE VI CHING *** 
13© FOR I * 1 TO 1 5O0 : NEXT 

148 CLS -"PRINT: PR I NT: PR I NT" THIS IS YOUR CHANCE TO GET STRAIGHT ANSWERS TO THE REALLV 
150 PRINT" IMPORTANT QUESTIONS. BEST OF ALL, VOU GET TO MAKE THOSE 
166 PRINT "ANSWERS STRAIGHT YOURSELF, WHICH MAY CRUSE YOU TO RE-EXAMINE 
170 PRINT" THE QUESTIONS i " s PRINT 

130 PRINT" IN SHORT, THE I CHING IS NOT A GAME BUT A PHILOSOPHY. 
196 PRINT "ft PHILOSOPHY IS A WAY OF SEEING, NOT A WAV OF * DOING'. 
200 PR I NT "THE I CHING IS BASED ON THE IDEA THAT SEEING CLEARLY MUST 
210 PRINT"HAPPEN BEFORE ACTION CAN BE MEANINGFUL. 

228 PRINT: PRINT" FOR INSTRUCTIONS ENTER <1>J TO CAST A HEXAGRAM ENTER <2>"J 

230 REM *** BRIEF OR PROCEED 

240 INPUTDs IFD=iGGSUB620 

250 CLS:INPUT"WHEN YOU ARE READY TO CAST A HEXAGRAM PRESS ENTER: "JEN 

260 CLS : FOR I * 1 TO 1 080 : NEXT a RESTORE 

270 REM *** MIND READINESS 

230 FORI = 1TO1000STEP66:PRINT*I, ">$&>; CONCENTRATE #tf&" : FOR J=1TO50: NEXT 

J : NEXT I 

290 PRINT0457.. "C * * N * C * E * N * T * R ♦ ft *,T * E 

300 Q=24:R=19 

310 F0RL-1T0127: SET<L, Q> l NEXTL 

320 FORM= 1 27T0 1 STEP- 1 : RESET < M , G > : NEXTM 

338 FORN= 1 27T0 1 STEP- 1 s SET < N , R > : NEKTN 

340 FQRP= 1 TO 1 27 : RESET < P , R > : NEXTP 

350 Q=Q+3 : R=R-3 : I FQ >44 ANDR< 5THEH360ELSE3 1 8 

360 CLS : FOR I » 1 TO 1 509 : NEXT I 

378 REM *** RANDOMIZE THE HEXAGRAM AND SET LINES 

380 FQRK=36T0ISTEP-7 

396 A=RND<2::» 

400 IFA=1G0SUB540 

41Q IFA=2GOSUB580 

420 GOSUB600:NEXTK 

430 PRINT€S32^2«Ci>fZ<2>JfZ<3>lZ<4>lZ<5>l2<S5 | 

440 REM *** TIME TO LOOK AND DECIDE 

450 FORI=1TO308O:NEXTI 

460 PR I NT«896, "ANOTHER CAST? <YES^1-- N0=2>" ; 

470 IHPUTB: IFB=2THEN52® 

480 REM *** ERASE OLD HEXAGRAM 

490 F0RK=1T036STEP7 

500 F0RI==iT0115 

510 RESET < I , K ) : NEXT I : NEXTK: G0T0260 

520 INPUT "THANKS FOR THE EXPERIENCE. IF YOU CHANGE YOUR MIND ENTER <1>"JEN:IF E 

N=1GOT0269 

530 CLS : END 

540 REM *** CONSTRUCT HEXAGRAM LINES 

550 A=6 : FOR J* 1 1 5T06&STEP- 1 : SET < J , K > : NEXT J 

560 FOR I =55T06STEP- 1 s SET < I , K > : NEXT I s RETURN 

580 A=9: FOR 1 = 11 5T0SSTEP- 1 8 SET < I .* JO S NEXT I 

590 RETURN 

690 READK , V 8 Z < V > = A 8 RETURN 

618 DATA36, 1 , 29, 2, 22, 3, 15, 4, 8, 5, 1 , 6 

98 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



MicroQuote 

Your personal computer becomes 
a window on Wall Street. 




MicroNET, the persona! computer service of 
CompuServe, now offers MicroQuote, a compre- 
hensive securities information system. 

With MicroQuote you can gain information from 
a data bank of over 32,000 stocks, bonds and op- 
tions from the New York, American, OTC and major 
regional markets plus Chicago options. MicroQuote 
contains price and volume data from January, 1974 
with cumulative adjustment factors and dividend 
information from January, 1968. 

You can determine indicated annual dividends, 
earnings per share, shares outstanding, BETA fac- 
tors, open interest on options and amount outstand- 
ing on debt issues. MicroQuote can provide issue 
histories on a daily, weekly or monthly basis and 
even performs certain statistical analyses on the 
data. It's a vital tool for any investor. 

It's just part of the MicroNET service 

MicroNET also allows error-free downloading of 
software via the new software exchange and execu- 
tive programs (now available for the TRS-80? Apple 
II® and CP/M R systems). It also provides electronic 

Circle 58 on inquiry card. 



mail service and can be accessed with a 300 baud 
modem via local phone calls in more than 175 U.S. 
cities. Write for full details on how your microcom- 
puter can control one of the nation's largest and 
most sophisticated time-sharing computer centers 
for about 8 cents a minute! 

TRS-80 is a registered trademark of Tandy Corporation 
Apple II is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 
CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research 

Regional distributors and local dealers wanted. 
Inquire to Dept. R 

Software authors: MicroNET seeks to license quality 
programs for software exchange. Write to 
Dept. S 

H/Ucral\IETl 

Mail to: Dept: B 

fnTniiiiCorva Personal Computing Division 
VAIllipilOtfl YC 5000 Arlington Centre Blvd. 
Columbus, Ohio 43220 



BYTE April 1980 97 



Computing the J Ching 
with a TRS-80 



Dr Edwin Dethlefsen 

Anthropology Dept 

College of William and Mary 

Williamsburg VA 23185 



Today most people think of the / 
Ching (or Yi Ching or Yz King) as a 
kind of oriental fortune- telling game. 
Actually, it goes back long before the 
time of Christ. It was begun in the 
Chou dynasty in the 12th century BC 
and was mostly completed in its pres- 
ent form about 900 years later. Even 
Confucius is supposed to have tried 
it. It originated as a philosophical 
manual and set of exercises for look- 
ing at one's world and its problems in 
the broadest and most perceptive pos- 
sible way, a little like the idea of 
'making your own luck" while pre- 
tending that what happens is just "the 
breaks/' 

You can read and enjoy the J Ching 
just like any book of rather esoteric 
oriental poetry, but that's really for 
the literary folks. Most of the college 
students who become involved with it 
attempt to use the book as a kind of 
reference for predicting the future or 
for figuring out solutions to such 
deep, personal problems as, "Does he 
really love me?", or, better yet, 
"What's the best way to make some 
money fasti" 

I first became interested in the J 
Ching when I was a college student 



About the Author 

Edwin 5 Dethlefsen is a professor of an- 
thropology at the College of William and 
Mary. He bought a Radio Shack TRS-80 com- 
puter in January 1979 with no definite purpose 
in mind, but he soon found a use for it in 
cataloging archaeological statistical data. He 
also uses his computer to write and record cor- 
respondence, to organize class notes and 
material and to play games like the one 
presented here. 



more than 30 years ago, because it 
was a terrific way to attract the atten- 
tion of the opposite sex. Helping 
young ladies "cast" their fortunes was 
a foolproof way to get their undivid- 
ed, personal attention. 

Doing the J Ching thing is a very 
absorbing and satisfying pastime, 
once you understand how to play the 
game. Since there are several popular 
books written on the subject, I won't 
attempt to tell you all about it here, 
but I will talk about how easy it is to 
get a microcomputer to do the 
mechanical parts in a properly 
mystical fashion. I'll also say a little 
bit about how to consult this magical 
oracle. (It really is more magical than 
you might think, since the limits to its 
magical powers of knowledge are 
only determined by your imagina- 
tion. Everyone I have ever seen use 
the / Ching has marvelled at its won- 
drous powers.) 

Using the / Ching 

Getting started with the J Ching is 
no big problem, once you understand 
that the whole thing is based on a 
six-position binary system. The two 
possible digits represent the Yzn and 
the Yang, a Chinese representation of 
the concept of opposites (weak- 
strong, bad-good, dark-light, etc). In 
this case, the digits are simply line 
segments that are either continuous 
or broken in the middle, as shown in 
figure 1. These lines are the binary 
choices, just as we non-I-Chingers 
would use heads or tails. 

In fact, determining the input for a 
hexagram is often done by casting 



Chinese coins and counting the heads 
and tails, but, if you will pardon my 
change of culture, this procedure is 
not exactly Kosher. I can remember 
once fruitlessly dashing all over the 
city of Berkeley, California, one love- 
ly summer night, searching for the 
hard-to-get Chinese coins while 
accompanied by a particularly attrac- 
tive young lady who was just dying 
for a chance to cast her fortune! 

Ordinary Chinese fortune tellers 
use a fistful of marked, tortoiseshell 
wands, which, until the invention of 
the microcomputer, provided the 
only true path to the secret inner 
recesses of I Chingery. I have only 
seen one set of these wands outside a 
museum — in a Manhattan antique 
store where they were priced just a 
little higher than my TRS-80. 

Now that I have leaked the word 
"hexagram," I'll have to explain that 
the J Ching is based upon all the 
possible combinations of six binary 
choices. That is to say, one must 
make six binary "casts" to produce a 
hexagram, which is then composed of 
the six lines determined by the casts. 
The hexagram, therefore, is one of 
sixty-four possible configurations. 
Each line has a binary value, as well 
as a value corresponding to its posi- 
tion, that is, the particular point in 
the hexagram at which that line was 
cast. Let's look at a sample hexa- 
gram, shown in figure 2. 

First, observe that there are six 
positions, each occupied either by a 
solid or by a broken line. But the 
hexagram, as well as being composed 

Text continued on page 102 



96 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 





September 1977 



March 1979 



Byte Cover Prints — 
Limited Editions. 



The September '77 and March 79 covers of BYTE 
are now each available as a limited edition art print, 
personally signed and numbered by the artist, 
Robert Tinney. 

These prints are strictly limited to a quantity of 750 
for each cover, and no other editions, of any size, 
will ever be published. Each print is 18" x 22", 
printed on quality, coated stock, and signed and 
numbered in pencil at bottom. 



The price of each print is $25. This includes 1) a 
signed and "numbered print; 2) a Certificate of 
Authenticity, also signed personally by the artist 
and witnessed, attesting to the number of the edi- 
tion (750), and the destruction of the printing plates; 
and 3) first class shipment in a heavy-duty mailing 
tube. 

To order your limited edition art print, fill out and 
mail the order form below. 



Send me "Breaking the Sound Barrier" 

prints at $25 each, and "Trap Door" 

prints at $25 each. I understand this price in- 
cludes Certificate of Authenticity and first class 
shipment. 

□ I have enclosed check or money order 
to Robert Tinney Graphics. 

□ Charge this to my Master Charge or Visa 



Card #_ 



Expires:. 



Ship my print(s) to: 
Name 



Address. 
City 



State. 



.Zip. 



Send order to: 

robert tinney graphics 

P.O.Box 45047 ■ Baton Rouge, LA 70895 



o 



X. 11 




Time (seconds) 



Figure 7a: Computer analysis of a tone produced by a trumpet. This is a two- 
dimensional projection of a three-dimensional plot. Amplitudes of different harmonics 
present in the note have different attack and decay characteristics. (Figure reproduced 
from the Computer Music Journal, volume 2, number 2, 1978, page 1; used by permis- 
sion). 




time- 



Figure 7b: Simplified analysis of a trumpet note. The complex curves seen in figure 7a 
have been divided into relatively long line segments to reduce the amount of informa- 
tion necessary to specify the sound to the computer. The graph here is based on 
Moorer's straight-line-segment simplification of his trumpet analysis; see reference 3. 



groups of harmonics at different 
times. 

Although all physical instruments 
have some degree of timbre variation 
during notes, much synthesized music 
tends to emphasize the timbre enve- 
lope because of the dramatic effect 
and because of the ease with which 
the effect may be created on an 
analog synthesizer. 

Figure 7a shows a two-dimensional 
projection of a three-dimensional plot 
of a typical trumpet tone. The hori- 
zontal axis is time, the vertical axis is 
amplitude, and the perpendicular axis 
is frequency. Since trumpet tones 
contain only harmonic components, 
the plot becomes a family of curves, 
one for each significant harmonic. 
Each curve in figure 7a represents the 
amplitude envelope of the correspon- 
ding harmonic. 

In general, exact duplication of 
each undulation and wiggle of the 
curve is not needed for fidelity. Figure 
7b shows the graph of a considerably 
simplified version of the trumpet 
tone, which uses straight line seg- 
ments to approximate the detailed 
computer analysis in figure 7a. Such 
an approximation greatly reduces the 
amount of information needed to 
specify the curves to a computer. 

It should be noted that the analysis 
of a tone emitted by a particular 
musical instrument is completely 
valid only at the analyzed fundamen- 
tal frequency and volume level 
(amplitude). Notes at other funda- 
mental frequencies and amplitudes 
will give different analysis results. If 
the goal is accurate simulation of real 
musical instruments, several timbre 
envelopes will have to be available to 
cover the range of the instrument. 

On an analog synthesizer, variable 
filters are used to smoothly vary the 
harmonic content of tones. A vari- 
able bandpass filter, for example, will 
emphasize harmonics falling between 
its upper and lower cutoff frequen- 
cies. By varying the filter parameters 
that determine these cutoff frequen- 
cies, the harmonic content of the 
filtered tone may be made to vary. By 
using a number of filters with dif- 
ferent variations in parameters, it is 
possible, but difficult, to vary the 
harmonic content in any arbitrary 
manner. For sampled waveforms, we 
can use digital filters in the same 
manner, but the need for multiplica- 
tion prevents the use of digital filters 

Text continued on page 180 



94 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



NEW FROM 

MOUNTAIN HARDWARE. 

CONTROL FROM YOUR APPLE. 



'*.4&»... 



INTROL/X-IO. 



COMPUTERIZE YOUR HOME. 

The lntrol/X-10 peripheral system for your Apple* 
Computer allows you to remotely control lights and 
electrical appliances in your home. 

YOU'RE ALREADY WIRED. 

lntrol/X-10 operates by utilizing your computer's intelli- 
gence to command the BSR System X-10 to send signals 
over regular 110 volt household wiring. That means you 
can control any electrical device in your home without 
additional wiring. 

READY TO USE. 

lntrol/X-10 comes with complete software to control 
devices on pre-determined schedules, and features: 
• Control devices at a specific time. • Select a daily or 
weekly schedule. • Specify a day of the week, or an exact 
date for a particular event. • Specify an interval of ti me for 
an event. • Rate device wattages for a running account 
of power consumption during your schedule for energy 
management. • Used with our Apple Clock™ your sched- 
ules may run in "background" while other programs 
may run at the same time in "foreground." 



EVERYTHING YOU NEED. 

The Introl Controller board plugs into a peripheral slot 
of your Apple. With an ultrasonic transducer it trans- 
mits control signals to the BSR/X-10 Command Console 
which may be plugged into any convenient AC outlet near 
your computer. On command, signals are sent to remote 
modules located at the devices you wish to control. Up 
to 16 remote module addresses may be controlled from 
your Apple. 

AVAILABLE NOW. 

The lntrol/X-10 System consists of the Introl Controller 
board with timer and ultrasonic transducer, the X-10 
Command Console and three remote modules. $279. 
Complete and tested. If you already have a BSR System 
X-10, the Introl Controller board is available separately for 
$189. Additional remote modules are available at $15. See 
your computer dealer for a demonstration. Or, return the 
coupon below for complete information. 

Available through computer dealers worldwide 

•Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 
BSR/System X-10 is a trademark of BSR, Ltd. 




* 



Mountain Hardware, Inc. 

LEADERSHIP IN COMPUTER PERIPHERALS 

300 Harvey West Blvd., Santa Cruz, CA 95060 
(408) 429-8600 

Sounds great. 

□ Home control from my Apple? 

That sounds like a great system. Send me all the details. 

Name 



Address. 
City 



State- 



.Zip. 



Phone- 



Circle 57 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 93 



Circle 56 on inquiry card. 




NOW- A GREAT IDEA- IMPROVED! 

The advantages of PASCAL are well 
recognized and accepted. Now, PASCAL+" 
makes a good thing even better. 

PASCAL+ is a pcode compiler and 
run-time package with extensions. Not a 
subset, it is a complete PASCAL and is fully 
CP/M* compatible— because it's specifi- 
cally designed for CP/M. It gives you all the 
standard PASCAL benefits— unlimited nest- 
ing of procedures and compound statements; 
data types (records, arrays, sets, user defined 
types, etc.); 14 digit BCD floating point pack- 
age — PLUS extensions to support commercial 
applications and reduce programming effort: 

Powerful dynamic storage management system /dynamic 
variable allocation procedures NEW & DISPOSE are fully 
implemented / automatic dynamic storage compression / 
user assigned pointer variables allow access to any part ot 
storage- example: a memory mapped video display could be 
accessed as an array of characters. External procedures/ 
(unctions may be separately compiled and disk-stored irt 
relocatable format / allows development of large programs, 
not limited by main storage size / automatic loading into 
dynamic storage when procedure is referenced / automatic 
purging from dynamic storage by a least-recently-used 
algorithm. Powerful disk I/O facilities / data may be stored 
in ASCII text or space-saving binary format / random access 
by relative byte address, perfect for index file structures and 
data base systems/ random access by relative record number 
String and structured variables / entire arrays and records, 
strings of different lengths may be assigned, compared, 
input or output with simple statements / function return 
values may be string, array, record CASE statement with 
ELSE clause / CASE labels may be full expressions More 
readable identifiers / up to 32 characters / may contain 
underline characters. Assembler routine interface. 
Hex constants. 

Documentation; PASCAL User Manual & Report by 
Jensen & Wirth and PASCAL+ User Manual; $225. 
Order PASCAL+ today from: 

■TJHH JRT SYSTEMS, INC 

W^^^F PO. Box 22365 
^mBm ^m San Francisco, 
PI ■ CA 94122 

^™ ^™ Telephone 415-566-4240 

(California residents add sales tax.) 

"CP- M is a registered trademark of Digital Research 



forms a very important contribution 
to the overall "timbre impression" of 
a note. A convincing demonstration 
is to play a recording of a piano 
backwards. The result is an organ- 
like sound that bears little resem- 
blance to a piano. Any serious music- 
synthesis system should have some 
provision for nonrectangular enve- 
lopes. 

The obvious way of obtaining a 
varying amplitude envelope from our 
system is to multiply the samples 
obtained from waveform tables by a 
variable-amplitude factor which itself 
may be obtained from an envelope 
shape table. Although simple in con- 
cept, this multiplication is not prac- 
tical for real-time operation on a 
microprocessor. A crude application 
of this method involves restricting the 
multiplier to powers of 2, but the 
resulting 6 dB amplitude steps are 
widely spaced. 

Another method involves using a 
device called a multiplying digital-to- 
analog converter, connected to 
the microcomputer. A multiplying 
D/A converter contains two data 
registers and produces an output 
voltage proportional to the product 
of the numbers stored in the registers. 
The multiplying D/A converter can 
be viewed as a regular D/A converter 
followed by a digital volume control. 
The analog circuitry of a multiplying 
D/A converter is far simpler than 
that of a digital multiplier and costs 
roughly twice as much as a standard 
D/A converter. The primary problem 
with the multiplying D/A converter 
is that it can provide an amplitude 
envelope for only one tone; simul- 
taneous multiple tones receive the 
same envelope. Use of the multiply- 
ing unit also compromises our con- 
cept of the D/A converter as a com- 
pletely general sound-output device. 

A third method of generating vary- 
ing amplitudes is to use a sequence of 
waveform tables, each table having a 
slightly different amplitude, to ap- 
proximate an envelope. Since the 
tables are computed in advance, 
multiplication time is of no conse- 
quence. This technique was first pro- 
posed by my associates, Frank Covitz 
and Cliff Ashcraft, but it was deemed 
impractical on the grounds that any 
reasonable approximation would re- 
quire too much memory. 

Frank and Cliff went ahead and 
tried it anyway. The results, even us- 
ing moderate amounts of memory, 



were much better than expected. 

During the interval that a note is to 
be sounded, the amplitude envelope 
is determined by selecting waveform 
samples from various tables in succes- 
sion. Each table contains samples of 
the same waveform, but stored with 
the amplitude differing from the 
samples in the other tables. 

An undesirable effect might occur, 
however, if the amplitude steps be- 
tween the samples from different 
tables are distinctly audible. This has 
not been a problem, for the following 
reason. 

The relative difference between 
two amplitudes must exceed a certain 
threshold to be audible to human 
ears. When we consider that we can 
store thirty-two waveform tables in 
8 K bytes of memory, we see that for 
notes of moderate duration (about 
1/4 second) and of moderate frequen- 
cy (around 250 Hz), waveform 
samples are taken from a new table 
every second cycle of the wave. This 
rate is fast enough to obviate any 
audible amplitude stepping. 
Although the memory usage is high, 
the decreasing cost of memory makes 
the method reasonable in many cir- 
cumstances. 

[Editor's Note: For more informa- 
tion about the threshold of audibility 
for changes in musical dynamics, see 
the article "Musical Dynamics" by 
Blake R Patterson in the November 
1974 issue of Scientific American, 
pages 78 thru 95 . . . .RSS] 

Timbre Envelopes 

There is still something missing in 
tones synthesized with a constant 
waveform, even when we employ a 
varying amplitude envelope. The har- 
monic content of most musical tones 
is not static during the time a note 
sounds, but rather changes consid- 
erably. 

Some examples follow. The higher 
harmonics of a piano tone decay 
faster than the lower harmonics. This 
is due to viscous losses in the string 
and better radiation coupling to the 
air (for the higher harmonics). In a 
trumpet note, the high harmonics 
take a while to build up during the at- 
tack phase of the note. The use of a 
hat mute to impart the distinctive 
"wah-wah" effect to a trombone 
creates a resonant cavity around the 
instrument's bell. Moving the mute 
changes the resonant frequency of the 
cavity and thus emphasizes different 



92 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 




Please send your free software catalog. 

(Check which software is of particular interest) 

D C COMPILER. Optimized native code for VAX 11/780, PDP-11, LSI-11, Z80, 
8085, 8080. Full C language as defined in Kernighan and Ritchie, with com- 
prehensive portable library. Cross compilers available. Runs under VMS, 
IAS, RSX-11D, RSX-11M, RSTS/E, RT-11, UNIX, Idris, CDOS, CP/M. From $500. 

□ IDRIS OPERATING SYSTEM. System calls and file system identical to 
UNIX V6, including pipelines. Utilities include shell, editor, assembler, 
loader, archiver, compare, copy, grep, etc., plus system utilities for file 
system maintenance. Runs on LSI-11, PDP-11. From $1000. 

□ PASCAL COMPILER. Optimized native code for VAX 11/780, PDP-11, 
LSI-11, Z80, 8085, 8080. Full Pascal language as defined in Jensen and 
Wirth, with standard library. Includes C compiler and portable library, 
permitting intermixed C and Pascal. Cross compilers available. Runs 
under VMS, IAS, RSX-11D, RSX-11M, RSTS/E, RT-11, UNIX, Idris, CDOS, 
CP/M. From $750. 

Idris is a trademark of Whitesmiths Ltd. VMS, RSX-1 1 . RT-1 1 , RSTS/E, VAX, 

UNIX is a trademark of Bell Laboratories. PDP-11, LSI-11 are trademarks of Digital 

CP/M is a trademark of Digital Research Co. Equipment Corporation. 



Name_ 



Company_ 

Street 

City 



_State_ 



-Zip_ 



Whitesmiths, Ltd 

Software for grownups. 

(212)799-1200 ° r 

PO.B. 1132 Ansonia Station, New York, NY 10023 



(J index) stepping through the har- 
monics. 

As the program is written, the har- 
monic amplitudes must be such that 
the maximum positive or negative 
waveform peak does not exceed the 
-128 to +127 range of the table 
entries. An improved program would 
automatically normalize the com- 
puted waveform for maximum utili- 
zation of 8-bit table entries. Since the 
tables have to be filled only once 



AMPLITUDE 



MAXIMUM — 



(either when the music is coded or 
immediately before performance), the 
slow speed of an interpreted BASIC 
program is adequate to get the job 
done. 

One other possibility is using an 
A/D converter to digitize the 
waveform of a real musical instru- 
ment. The trick to doing this suc- 
cessfully is to get exactly one cycle of 
the waveform into the table. This in 
turn requires an accurate knowledge 




♦ TIME 



Figure 6: Amplitude envelope for a typical musical sound. This exhibits in graphic form 
how fast a given tone builds up, continues to sound, and then dies away. Terms for 
various parts of the envelope are shown. 



PASCAL/M" 

A CP/M* COMPATIBLE PRODUCT 



PASCAL M is an implementa 
tion of the Standard Pascal 
Droaramminn language de 
jus Wirth. 



PASCAL/M does all input/output and file manipulation via calls to 
CP/M. The file interface intrinsics were chosen to promote Pascal 
program transportability and to provide a bridge between CP/M 
and the Standard Pascal language definition. In selecting and 
defining extensions to PASCAL/M, heavy weight was given to 
compatibility with other existing Pascal implementations. Over 40 
extensions to Standard Pascal support: 



• Console Cursor Controls 

• Type String 

• Untyped files (for 
memory image I/O) 



. Segment procedures (memory 
sharing) 

. String and Character procedures to 
support insertion, deletion and 
replacing of character data. 



PASCAL/M provides single precision floating point (Type Real). Both in- 
teger (16 bit) and long integer (32 bit, 9 digit) arithmetic are sup- 
ported. An optional version will support the AMD 95 II A or the Intel 
8231 math chips. 



AVAILABLE VERSIONS 
CP/M Type CPU Type Disk Size 



1.4 
1.4 
Cromemco 

CDOS 
Northstar 2D 

(Lifeboat) 
2.0 
2.0 

MP/M TO 
MP/M l.O 



8080/85 

zso 



Z80 



Z*0 5-1/4" 
SOSO/85 8" 

ZSO 8" 

8080/85 8" 

Z80 8" 



PASCAL/M requires 56K RAM and one 
floppy disk. The package includes diskette 
with P Code Compiler, Interpreter, and 
Runtime Library; Pascal User Manual and 
Report by Jensen and Wirth; and PAS- 
CAL !M User's Reference Manual. The 
cost is $350. For manuals only - $35. 
Dealer inquires welcomed. Visa/MC. 

•CP/M is a trademark of Digital Research 



2670 Cherry Lane 
Walnut Creek, CA 94596 



Digital 
Marketing 



(415)938-2880 



of the pitch of the digitized note and a 
very good interpolation routine. 
Although the process can be prac- 
tical, simply storing and reproducing 
a single cycle of the waveform does 
not necessarily duplicate the complete 
timbre of the instrument, as will be 
shown later. 

It should be mentioned here that 
table scanning is not a perfectly 
general method of generating tones 
because only periodic (harmonic) 
waveforms may be produced. Some 
tones, notably those from bells, are 
made up of sine-wave components 
(overtones) that are not harmonics of 
any well-defined fundamental. The 
waveforms of such tones are con- 
stantly changing, to the point that 
there is no identifiable period. As a 
result, such sounds cannot be gen- 
erated by scanning a single waveform 
table. As a practical matter though, 
such tones may be approximated by 
building a waveform table having on- 
ly high-order, prime-number har- 
monics (such as 7, 11, 13) of a low- 
frequency, zero-amplitude fun- 
damental. 

Amplitude Envelopes 

Although the ability to synthesize 
any periodic waveform offers a great 
deal of variety in timbre, it is not the 
last word. In experimenting with a 
music system based only upon the 
principles that have been discussed so 
far, we discover that all of the dif- 
ferent waveforms sound more or less 
like an organ; just different stops. We 
will never find a mere waveform that 
sounds like a piano, or a plucked 
string, or a horn. One of the missing 
ingredients is called an amplitude 
envelope, which is involved with the 
attack (build-up) and decay of notes. 

Figure 6 presents a typical ampli- 
tude envelope along with terms for 
the various parts. Using a plucked 
string as an example, we have a rapid 
(but not instantaneous) attack as the 
string is released, no overshoot or 
steady state, and a slow decay as the 
vibrations damp out. In contrast, a 
pipe organ has both a rapid attack 
and decay, but a level, steady state in 
between. An electronic organ or a 
music program based on simple 
waveform-table scanning has an in- 
stantaneous attack and decay and a 
level, steady state. We call this a 
"rectangular envelope." 

It turns out that the shape and 
duration of the amplitude envelope 



90 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 55 on inquiry card. 






Operating Power! 



with 



l/OS Version 3.0 

8080/Z80 OPERATING SYSTEM 



The former TSA/OS has been 
significantly upgraded and 
improved... 

• New Spooler 

• Hard disk support 

• Big files supported (over 
200,000,000 bytes) 

• New system support functions 
and utilities 

• Improved versions of standard 
utilities 

• New improved manuals 



$150 gets it all l/OS, 
spooler, utilities, manuals! 

(plus dealer configuration charges) 

Now also available 
for the Radio Shack 
TRS 80 MODEL II! 



A BIG SYSTEM OS 
FOR YOUR MICRO! 

• True 'sysgen' for an optimized 
system for any hardware 

• Support for most popular 
terminals, devices and systems 
plus user driver interface 

• CP/M* — CDOS* — SDOS* 
compatible 

• Supports systems with multiple 
disk types (two or more drivers) 

*™ Digital Research, Cromernco, SD Systems 



• •NEXT MONTH •• 



l/Pascal™ compiler 
l/SAL™ structured assembler 
...more to follow! 

• • • • • 



SPECIAL OFFER 

for 
TRS 80 MODEL II — l/OS 

PLUS 

the Wp Daisy™ Word Processor. 

$550 

total price! 



Software for l/OS — TSA/OS — CDOS — SDOS 
other 8080/Z80 OS*M operating systems 



Circle 54 on inquiry card. 




Listing 3: A BASIC program that calculates and prints out values to fill a waveform- 
sample table. The user must specify the number of harmonics desired in the tone (ten is 
a typical number). Then the user must type in amplitude and phase information for 
each harmonic. This program produces only printed output, but it could just as well 
place the waveform samples directly in the memory locations reserved for the tables, 
using POKE statements. 

5 REM: FOURIER SERIES WAVEFORM TABLE FILLER 

10 REM: N IS HIGHEST HARMONIC 

20 REM: A IS AMPLITUDE ARRAY 

30 REM: P IS PHASE ARRAY 

35 PRINT "WHAT IS HIGHEST DESIRED HARMONIC"; 

40 INPUT N 

45 DIM A(N), P(N) 

50 PRINT "INPUT AMPLITUDE ARRAY" 

55 FOR I = 1 TO N 

60 INPUT A(I) 

65 NEXT I 

70 PRINT "INPUT PHASE ARRAY" 

75 FOR I = 1 TO N 

80 INPUT P(I) 

85 NEXT I 

90 REM: CALCULATE AND PRINT WAVEFORM TABLE 

100 FOR I = TO 255 

110 W = 

120 FOR I = 1 TO N 

130 W m W + A(J) * COS (0.02454369 * I * J + P(J) ) 

140 NEXT J 

150 PRINT I, INT(127*W) 

160 NEXT I 

170 STOP 

999 END 




Edmund 

Scientific 

Catalog 



Explore with us! 



mucn more . 
of Science! 
Edmund ha 



Weather . . . ani 
Edmund World 



)yist serious amatei 



Edmund makes science fun!!! 



□ Rush me your free catalog! 

Name ^_^_ _ 

Company 

Address 



City __ 
State^ 



_Zip_ 



Clip and Mail Coupon Today to: 

Edmund Scientific Co., Dept. 2017 KH08 
Edscorp. Building, Barrington, N.J. 08007 

No. 153 ®1980 Edmund Scientific Co. 



Hz, somewhere between the notes B0 
and Cl. If middle C (C4) is desired 
instead, the increment value would be 
set to about 8.37 in order to produce 
261 Hz. Now, since the waveform 
was drawn by hand, it could have 
some very high harmonics in its 
shape, possibly as high as the 128th 
harmonic (one half the table length). 

For argument, let's say that the 
40th harmonic has a significant 
amplitude in the drawn shape. The 
40th harmonic of 261 Hz is 10.44 
kHz, which is much more than one 
half of the 8 kHz sample rate. The 
result is that the 40th harmonic will 
alias, and for this example will actual- 
ly sound at 2.44 kHz. Thus, not only 
will a digital-sampling system fail to 
reproduce frequencies above one half 
of the sample rate, but it will severely 
distort any attempts to do so. As a 
result, waveforms used in the tables 
must have a controlled harmonic con- 
tent in order to avoid such alias 
distortion. 

Actually, it is quite desirable to fill 
the tables by directly specifying the 
harmonic content. One advantage is 
that there is a direct, although 
sometimes subtle, correlation be- 
tween harmonic content and timbre. 
Another advantage is that alias 
distortion may be precisely predicted 
and therefore avoided. The rule is 
that the highest nonzero harmonic of 
the highest note played using the 
table must not exceed one half of the 
sample frequency. 

Writing a program to fill waveform 
tables from harmonic specifications is 
actually quite simple, particularly if a 
high-level language is used. In listing 
3 is shown a BASIC program that will 
print out a 256-byte waveform table, 
once it has been given harmonic 
amplitude and phase arrays. The pro- 
gram could just as easily POKE the 
values into memory for use by the 
machine-language table-scanner pro- 
gram. 

In the program of listing 3, the 
variable N is the highest harmonic 
number to be included; A is the 
amplitude array, which contains 
amplitude factors between and 1.0; 
and P is the phase array, which con- 
tains phase angles between and 6.28 
radians, relative to a cosine wave. 
The program structure is simply two 
nested loops with the outer loop (I 
index) stepping through the wave- 
form table entries and the inner loop 



88 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 53 on inquiry card. 



PASCAL 

FROM START TO FINISH 



The BYTE Book 
of Pascal 

Edited by 
Blaise W. Liffick 
Based on the growing 
popularity of Pascal as a 
programming language, 
numerous articles, 
language forums and let- 
ters from past issues of 
BYTE magazine have 
been compiled to provide 
this general introduction 
to Pascal. In addition, 
this book contains several 
important pieces of soft- 
ware including two ver- 
sions of a Pascal compiler 
- one written in BASIC 
and the other in 8080 
assembly language; a 
p-code interpreter written 
in both Pascal and 8080 
assembly languages; a 
chess playing program; 
and an APL interpreter 
written in Pascal. $25.00 
Hardcover pp. 342 
ISBN 0-07-037823-1 



Beginner's Guide 
for the UCSD 
Pascal System 

by Kenneth L. Bowles 
Written by the originator 
of the UCSD Pascal 
System, this highly infor- 
mative book is designed 
as an orientation guide 
for learning to use the 



UCSD Pascal System. For 
the novice, this book 
steps through the System 
bringing the user to a 
sophisticated level of 
expertise. Once familiar 
with the System, you will 
find the guide an invalu- 



able reference tool for 
creating advanced appli- 
cations. This book 
features tutorial examples 
of programming tasks in 
the form of self -study 
quiz programs. 
The UCSD Pascal Soft- 



The BYTE 
Book Of 

Pascal 

feWUfhck.ixlitA 



Begin neri* 

Guide 

fort hd <*l> 

I\t*cal 



r 



Please send 

D copies of Beginner's Guide for the UCSD Pascal System 

□ copies of The BYTE Book of Pascal 



m 



Name 



Title 



Company 



Street 



City 



State /Province 



Code 



□ Check enclosed in the amount of $ 

□ Bill Visa □ Bill Master Charge 
Card No. Exp. Date . 



ID I II K Ac *^ ^® € per book to cover postage and handling. 

| ■nrBriPUK 70 Main Street > Peterborough, NH 03458 B 4 



J 



ware Systems, available 
from SofTech Micro- 
systems Inc, 9494 Black 
Mountain Road, San 
Diego CA 92126, is a 
complete general purpose 
software package for 
users of microcomputers 
and minicomputers. The 
package offers several 
interesting features 
including: 

• Programs which may 
be run without altera- 
tion on the General 
Automation or DEC 
PDP-11 minicom- 
puters, or on an 8080, 
8085, Z80, 6502, 6800, 
or 9900 based micro- 
computers. 

• Ease of use on a small, 
single-user computer 
with display screen 
and one or more 
floppy disk drives. 

• A powerful Pascal 
compiler which sup- 
ports interactive appli- 
cations, strings, direct 
access disks, and 
separately compiled 
modules. 

• A complete collection 
of development soft- 
ware: operating 
system, file handler, 
screen oriented text 
editor, link editor, etc. 

$11.95 

ISBN 0-07-006745-7 



Circle 127 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 87 



all that is required is a normal double- 
precision addition operation on the 
integer and fractional parts of the 
pointer. Overflow from the integer 
part of the result is simply ignored. 
Ignoring the overflow causes the 
lookup routine to wrap around the 
table, conceptually bending the table 
into a circle, as mentioned earlier. 
Using a 1-byte fractional component 
gives a tone-frequency accuracy of 
0.12 Hz when the sample rate is 8 
kHz, which is accurate enough for 
musical applications. 

A segment of 6502 assembler code 
for adding the increment to the 
pointer and looking up in the 
waveform table is shown in listing 2. 
Since all operands are in memory 
(they should be in page for maxi- 
mum speed), any number of tables 
and pointers may be manipulated 
concurrently for simultaneous tones. 
Total execution time for the instruc- 
tions is only 23fis for a 1 mHz pro- 
cessor clock rate, so the technique 
seems promising for real-time syn- 
thesis of several simultaneous tones. 
The clear-carry instruction normally 
required before an addition has been 



omitted, since its effect on the tone is 
very small (it will be sharp by a maxi- 
mum of 0.12 Hz), and 2 /is are saved 
by the omission. 

Other microprocessors can certain- 
ly perform these operations too, 
although all other 8-bit processors I 
have studied are significantly slower 
than the 6502, when straightforward 
programming techniques are used. 
The problem is that other comparable 
processors have neither indirect 
addressing through memory nor 
enough index registers to hold several 
pointers at once. Thus, the pointer 
must be loaded into a register before 
the table -lookup operation is done, 
which is a time-consuming operation. 
(Z80 programmers could use both 
register sets and probably have 
enough registers.) 

One possibility for speeding up 
execution which involves cheating a 
little is to simulate indirect addressing 
by using the address bytes of a load 
instruction as the page and integer 
part of the table pointer and keeping 
the fractional part elsewhere. 
Although this is program self -modifi- 
cation, it is completely crash-proof 



TheRiseal 
Software TDol 



The value of Pascal in computer software design is becoming widely 
recognized. And our new VI. 2 version contains significant enhancements 
in ease of operation and reliability. Consider the VI. 2 Symbolic Debugger. 
Pascal debugging should be performed in Pascal, not with assembler 
listings and memory maps. Our Debugger knows your data names and 
structures. Values are accepted and displayed in Pascal notation, including 
scalars, sets, arrays, records, and pointers. 

Complete interactive control displays your original source lines, including 
embedded comments. Breakpoints give statement numbers and procedure 
names, rather than octal addresses. The Debugger can show the program 
execution history including all stacked procedure calls. Should fatal errors 
occur, they are intercepted by the Debugger instead of ending your 
testing. 

For more information on our approach, ask for the complete OMSI Pascal 



VI. 2 Product Description. 



Oregon 
Software 



2340 S.W. Canyon Road ■ Portland, Oregon 97201 * (503) 226-7 760 • TWX 910-464-4779 
INI "T~ ;fO» 



Australia: Sydney; 
Network Computer Services 
390-3677 



Canada: Vancouver; 
Valley Software 
(604) 524-9741 



England: Stafford; 
Hourds Computing Ltd. 
0785-44221 



Japan: Tokyo; 
Rikei Corporation 
03-345-1411 



and self -initializing. In the case of a 
system stored in read-only memory, 
the table-lookup code would have to 
be copied to programmable memory 
and executed there. 

So far we have a method of pro- 
ducing single tones of specified fre- 
quency and waveform (amplitude 
control will be discussed later), but 
the goal is generation of at least three 
simultaneous tones. Fortunately, this 
is very simple; we simply maintain a 
separate pointer and increment for 
each tone, access the waveform tables 
individually, add the samples fetched 
from each, and send the sum to the 
D/A converter. There is no theoret- 
ical limit to the number of simul- 
taneous tones, but there is a practical 
time limit to the manipulation that 
can be performed in the short period 
between samples. 

Filling the Waveform Tables 

Now that we have a mechanism for 
synthesizing any desired waveform at 
any desired fundamental frequency, 
the next problem is to fill the tables 
with desirable waveforms. Since 
anything can be put in the table, our 
first inclination is to draw waveforms 
by hand and enter empirically de- 
rived values into the table. This might 
even be a practical application of the 
graphics "doodle" programs that are 
so common, or a good application for 
a graphic digitizer. 

When we actually try it, however, 
drawing waveforms turns out to be 
an unsatisfactory method of filling 
tables. One problem is that there is 
very little obvious relationship be- 
tween the drawn shape and the 
resulting sound timbre. For example, 
if a shape has been drawn and it 
generates a sound that is close to 
what we want, there is no way to 
know what should be changed to 
make the sound timbre more like 
what is desired. In practice, 
experimenting with drawn shapes is 
little better than listening to the 
results produced by a random- 
number generator and saving the 
'"best ones" for later use. 

A more severe problem in using 
drawn waveforms is alias distortion, 
which occurs when the waveform 
table is scanned with an increment 
greater than 1, which is the usual 
case. For example, with a 256-byte 
table and an 8 kHz sample rate, a 
table increment of 1 will produce a 
fundamental frequency of about 31 



86 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 51 on inquiry card. 



» » EXCITING MAIL ORDER DISCOUNTS « « 



feippkz computer II 

16K 

$959 




CASH PRICE 

APPLE II 32K 5 1050 
APPLE II 48K 4100 



•COLOR •GRAPHICS • SOUND 
APPLE II ACCESSORIES 



CORVUS 1 MEGABYTE DISK DRIVE . . . $4650" 

PASCAL LANGUAGE SYSTEM 445" 

GRAPHICS INPUT TABLET 675*" 

DISK li with CONTROLLER CARD 495" 

DISK II without CONTROLLER 440" 

APPLESOFT FIRMWARE CARD 1 55" 

INTEGER FIRMWARE CARD 1 55" 

SERIAL INTERFACE CARD 1 60" 

COMMUNICATIONS CARD 1 90" 

CLOCK/CALENDAR CARD 230 

INTROL X-1 SYSTEM 325" 

SUPERTALKER SPEECH SYNTHISIZER . . . 325" 

ROMPLUS CARD 1 98" 

HEURISTICS SPEECHLINK 2000 225" 

WE SELL APPLE SOFTWARE ALSO. 



DC HAYES MICROMODEM II $335" 

ALF MUSIC SYNTHISIZER 245" 

SSM A1 CARD (KIT) 1 25" 

SSM A1 CARD (A&T) 1 90" 

NOVATION CAT MODE M 169" 

SUP-R-MOD RF TV MODULATOR 25.00 

SUP-R-TERM 80 col. CARD 349" 

DAN PAYMAR lower case kit 45.00 

SVA 8" DISK CONTROLLER CARD 349" 

CCS ARITHMETIC PROCESSOR CARD . . 349.00 

CCS GPIB INTERFACE CARD 269.00 

CONTROLLER Gen. Bus. software 529" 

CASHIER Retail Mangmnt. & Inven. soft. . . 209" 

APPLE POST Mailing List software 45" 

APPLEWRITER Word Processing software . 69" 




ATARI 400 COMPUTER $499.00 

ATARI 820 PRINTER $499.00 

ATARI 810 DISK DRIVE $599.00 

ATARI 41 PROGRAM RECORDER $69.00 

ATARI 16K RAM MODULE $149.00 

• Built-in RF TV modulator 
•High speed serial I/O port 

• Includes ATARI 410 program recorder 
WE SELL ATARI SOFTWARE ALSO. 



•High resolution COLOR Graphics 

• 1 0K Basic in ROM 

• 8K user RAM expandable to 48K 

• 57 key full stroke keyboard 



THE AMAZING 



SORCERER eg** $995.0 



jler internally ex 
:tor for S 1 00 e: 
I O Graphic 




31K 1,143.00 #«•€ 1,295.00 




OHIO SCIENTIFIC 

CHALLENGER 

4p$649 



•8K BASIC in ROM 

•8K Ram expandable to 32K 

•16 COLOR GRAPHICS 



Featuring 



• 32 x 64 Upper & Lower case characters 
•256 x 51 2 High resolution graphic points 
•Programmable tone generator 20hz - 20KHz 

•Plus more! 



CHALLENGER C4P MF 
$1589 

All the features of the C4P plus . . . 

•A SINGLE MINI FLOPPY DISK DRIVE 

•A REAL TIME CLOCK 

•SECURITY SYSTEM, MODEM & PRINTER INTERFACE 

•24K RAM expandable to 48K (of reliable static RAM) 

WE SELL OSI ACCESSORIES * SOFTWARE ALSO. 




Texas 
Instruments 

TI-994 979 





• 16K of user RAM 

•Extended BASIC language in ROM 

• 16 COLOR GRAPHICS 
•Supported with Solid State Software 

INCLUDES a 1 3 inch COLOR VIDEO MONITOR 

We sell 11-99(4 Accessories & Softwere Too. 



MICROPO.LIS 

1021 MODii "*%$mT. , 529 M 

1 041 MOD II ""*££&$**:. ... 899 00 

1 043 MOD II •njSWT 999 00 

1053 MOD II ^'^rr^ 1649 00 

•31 5K Bytes storage per drive 
•QUAD DENSITY DESIGN 
•COST EFFECTIVE STORAGE 
•4 TIMES STANDARD CAPACITY! 



MetaFloppy 

DRIVES 




SOROCIQ120 

SERIAL RS232C 

FULL ASCI I UPPER/LOWERCASE 

NUMERIC KEYPAD CURSER KEYS 



• SCREEN CONTROLS 
PROTECTED FIELDS 



$ 739 



'ALSO AVAILABLE' 

SOROC IQ 140 M195 00 




These terminals are shipped freight collect only. 

MONITORS 

LEEDEX VIDEO 100 

12" BLACK & WHITE MONITOR 

•VIDEO BANDWIDTH 1 2 MHz±3db 
•COMPOSITE VIDEO INPUT 

*135 00 

SANYO 9" Black & White Monitor. $169 
SANYO 1 5" Black & White Monitor. 259 
ZENITH 1 3" Color Monitor 399 




PAPER TIGER ITS 440 875 

With Graphics Option 1 ,075 

CENTRONICS 730-1 850 

CENTRONICS 779-1 1 ,049 

ANADEX DP-8000 850 

AXIOM EX-801 495 

AXIOM EX-820 795 

COMPRINT 91 2S 599 

COMPRINT 91 2P 559 

TRENDCOM T-1 00 349 



. TO ORDER . 

Phone orders invited, using credit cards Or send cashiers 
check or money order that draws on a U.S. bank Please add 
3% ($5.00 Minimum) for handling, shipping (air service) and 
insurance, or equipment will be shipped freight collect 
California residents add 6% sates tax AN equipment is in 
factory cartons with the manufacturers warranty Equipment 
is subject to price change and availability without notice . 



6363 EL CAJON BLVD., SUITE 205, 
SAN DISCO CA. 92115 • (714) 579-0330 




Circle 50 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 85 



Circle 49 on inquiry card. 




UNIQUELY 

NEW FROM 

HAYDEN... 



New! THE 8086 PRIMER 
An Introduction 
to its Architecture, 
System Design, and 
Programming (Morse) 
Written by the man respon- 
sible for the architectural 
definition of the 8086 processor. 
Describes the 8086 chip in 
depth, including information 
never before published. 
Also covers motivation for 
the design of the 8086 chip ; 
corrected procedures, » » 
and internal architecture. \ \ 
#5165-4, $8.95. \ \ 

New! SOFTWARE 
ENGINEERING FOR 
MICROS: The Electri- 
fying, Streamlined, 
Blueprint, Speed- 
code Method (Lewis) 
Written by the author of How 
To Profit from Your Per- 
sonal Computer. Provides 
you with information on 
software quality, software 
engineering, and structured 
programming. Improves 
your ability to write abstracted 
ideas and then code them 
into the notations of a partic- 
ular machine. #5166-2, $6.95. 



New! DESIGNING 
MICROCOMPUTER 
SYSTEMS (Pooch & 

Chattergy) Discusses hardware 
aspects of microcomputer 
systems, including micropro 
cessor architecture, input 
and output ports, interrupt 
systems, programmable 
clocks, memory units, etc. 
#5679-6, $8.95. 



Available at your 
local computer store! 

Or write to: 

Hayden Book Company, Inc. 

50 Essex Street, Rochelle Park, NJ 07662 

Call (201) 843-0550, ext . 307 
TO CHARGE YOUR ORDER TO 
Master Charge or Bank Americard! 

Minimum order is $10.00; customer 
pays postage and handling. 




Listing 2: A segment of 6502 code that increments the waveform-table pointer and looks 
up entries in the waveform table to be sent to the D/A converter. All operands are 
assumed to be stored in page of memory for maximum speed; any number of tables 
and pointers may be manipulated concurrently for producing multiple, simultaneous 
tones. Execution times are given in microseconds for a 1 MHz clock. 



Operation 


Comments 


Execution Time 


: LDAPF 


ADD FRACTIONAL PART OF 


3 


ADC IF 


INCREMENT TO FRACTIONAL 


3 


STA PF 


PART OF POINTER. 


3 


LDAPI 


ADD INTEGER PART OF 


3 


ADC II 


INCREMENT TO INTEGER PART 


3 


STA PI 


OF POINTER WITH CARRY. 


3 


LDA (PP), Y 


PERFORM THE TABLE LOOKUP, 
ASSUME Y = 0, REGISTER A 
CONTAINS TABLE ENTRY WHEN DONE. 

Total Execution Time 


5 




23 



difference if n is large. In general, 
complex waveforms will incur more 
interpolation noise than simple 
waveforms. If waveform complexity 
is measured by giving the highest 
dominant harmonic number in the 
waveform, doubling this number will 
increase the noise level by 6 dB. 

A 256-entry table containing a sim- 
ple sine wave will have a signal-to- 
interpolation-noise ratio of approx- 
imately 42 dB with no interpolation 
and 83 dB when using linear inter- 
polation. The corresponding figures 
for a typical complex waveform hav- 
ing sixteen harmonics would be 27 dB 
and 52 dB. Clearly, interpolation 
noise is a limiting factor when short 
tables and zero-order interpolation is 
used. 

While scanning tables using indices 
containing a fractional component 
may seem complex, it is actually very 
simple on a microcomputer if things 
are set up correctly. In particular, the 
waveform tables are made 256 bytes 



USE THESE FOR INDIRECT ADDRESS 



long, which simplifies things con- 
siderably. Figure 5 shows how table 
scanning can be handled on a 6502 
microprocessor. 

The table pointer is actually a 
string of 3 bytes in memory. (The 
bytes are shown in natural order 
here, but in the microprocessor they 
are stored in reverse order.) The most 
significant byte contains the memory- 
page number of the waveform being 
scanned. Normally this value is con- 
stant during the scanning, but it can 
be easily changed for reference to a 
different table. The middle byte con- 
tains the integer part of the pointer 
value, and the rightmost byte con- 
tains the fractional part. A simple in- 
direct register-load operation using 
the left 2 bytes of the table pointer is 
all that is required to perform the 
table lookup with no interpolation. 

The table increment is a 2-byte 
value with the integer part on the left 
and the fractional part on the right. 
To add the increment to the pointer, 



f 


\ 






PAGE NUMBER 
OF WAVEFORM 


INTEGER PART 
OF POINTER 


FRACTIONAL 
PART OF POINTER 


POINTER 
FORMAT 


PP 


PI PF 






ADO INCREMENT TO THESE 






INTEGER PART 
OF INCREMENT 


FRACTIONAL PART 
OF INCREMENT 


INCREME 
FORMAT 



Figure 5: Method employed to scan the waveform-sample tables on the 6502 
microprocessor. Each waveform table is made to be 256 bytes long, one page of 
memory. The pointer to the table entries is 3 bytes long; it is shown here in natural 
order, but is stored in memory in reverse order. Indirect addressing is used. Interpola- 
tion between table entries is not performed (see text). The fractional component of the 
pointer is not used in addressing the table. The 6502 assembler-language code for access- 
ing table entries is shown in listing 2. 



84 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



natnspccD 



S-100 BUS PRODUCTS 



■ t ^t :v ii-:^%3% " -S '-fi^Si '■■■■ 



THE CONDUCTOR tm 

A versatile dual density floppy 
disk controller. Works with 
most popular drives such as 
SHUGART, MR, SIEMENS, 
PERSCI. etc., and guarantee 
to work with virtually all 
leading CPU boards and 
RAM cards. Backed up with 
dual density CP/M ($150) and 
available NOW!!! 

$325 assembled 



5 AND 8 INCH SINGLE-AND DOUBLE-DENSITY CONTROLLER ON ONE BOARD 




II 



VCB-l 

VIDEO CONTROLLER 

Memory mapped 80 x 24 with 
dual character sets 
(PROGRAMMABLE!) parallel 
port, 1K user ROM and 
HARDWARE SCROLLING. 
Firmware available. 

$349 assembled 



THE PERFECT I/O COMPANION TO THE CONDUCTOR 



We feature SHUGART and MPI drives. Each drive 



system includes \\ 



JCTOR dual density 



controller, cabinet power supply and cables. 
EVERYTHING you need for a solid dual-density system 
at solid savings. 



MINI-FLOPPY SYSTEMS 

(your choice — SHUGART or MPI) 



Single-Sided System 
Double-Sided System 



(SA-400)orMPI51) 
fSA-450 or MPI 52) . 



DISK SYSTEMS 

Let DATASPEED package your 
disk system. All the hardware 
you need for a complete 
floppy disk system. Just add 
CP/M and a computer. PLUS- 
FREE Osborne Accounting 
software. 

complete systems from $795 



8" DRIVE SYSTEMS (SHUGART only) 



Single Drive System 
Dual Drive System 



single-sided 
(oneSA-800). . $1149 
(twoSA-800) ... $1849 



double-sided 
(oneSA-850). . . $1349 
(twoSA-850) . . . $2049 



DATASPEED, INC., 1300 NOE STREET, SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA 94131 (415) 641-8947 

Circle 48 on inquiry card. 



VISA AND 
MASTER C 



tion for the sine function used in high- 
level languages is unsuitable. The 
solution is to use a sine table stored 
somewhere in memory. 

Fortunately, table lookup is a very 
fast operation on most micro- 
processors, and doubly so on the 
6502 with its indirect addressing 
modes. Because of its smoothly rising 
ramp, sample values from the 
sawtooth calculation can be used as 
an index into the sine table; the values 
retrieved from the table are the out- 
put samples that are sent to the D/A 
converter. In essence, the table is be- 
ing repeatedly scanned to produce a 
periodic waveform (which actually 
can be any waveform) for the D/A 
converter. This table-scanning con- 
cept is the key to D/A converter- 
based microcomputer music. 

Scanning Waveform Tables 

Figure 4 illustrates the waveform- 
table-scanning concept in more 
detail. Since a periodic, repeating 
waveform is to be generated, one 
cycle of the waveform is stored in the 
table. The scanning is done such that 
the end of the table seems to be con- 
tiguous with the beginning; thus the 
linear table in memory is conceptual- 
ly bent into a circle. A table pointer, 
represented by an arrow in the dia- 
gram of figure 4, points to the current 
table entry that is being sent to the 
D/A converter. During each sample 
period a table increment is added to 
the pointer value. This yields a new 
pointer position further around the 
circle, which is used to fetch a new 
waveform sample for the D/A 
converter. 

If the sample period remains con- 
stant, which it always must when 
multiple sounds are synthesized 
simultaneously, control over funda- 
mental frequency is exercised solely 
by changing the table increment 
value. When the increment is greater 
than 1, the scanning process will skip 
samples in the table. While this may 
seem to reduce the accuracy of wave- 
form reproduction, there is no audi- 
ble effect if the tabulated waveform 
conforms to certain restrictions that 
will be discussed later. Keep in mind 
the sampling distortion results dis- 
cussed previously. 

When the pointer and increment 
values are restricted to integers, the 
result is a severely limited variety of 
frequencies, unless the waveform 
table is very large. To make use of 




\ 125 1*" 

1 1 ""^ 


CURRENT TABLE 

POINTER 

• 


/ 127 1 


125 / / 


TABLE 
INCREMENT 


17 /^J 




y 


NEXT TABLE 
POINTER 



Figure 4: Conceptual diagram of a waveform-scanning table. The table, in this case con- 
taining thirty-two waveform samples, is scanned in such a manner that the end of the 
table seems to be contiguous with the beginning. The table pointer indicates the value 
that is currently being sent to the D/A converter. During each sample period, a table- 
increment value is added to the table-pointer value, yielding a new pointer position fur- 
ther around the table. 



tables of practical size, such as 256 
entries, and to allow a wide range of 
possible frequencies, it is necessary to 
allow for the case of the pointer and 
the increment taking on values with 
fractional parts. The scanning pro- 
cedure is the same when fractional 
parts are present, but a problem 
arises when the "78.1854th table 
entry" is to be fetched. 

The logical thing to do is to inter- 
polate between the values of the 78th 
and 79th table entries to determine 
the correct value to be sent to the 
D/A converter. The easiest method 
of interpolation, linear interpolation, 
is certainly an improvement over no 
interpolation at all, but it is not 
perfect . Higher order interpolation 
(quadratic, cubic, etc) is needed for 
really good results. Sine-function in- 
terpolation using the sin(x)/x curve is 
required for theoretically perfect 
sampled-waveform interpolation. 
The result of imperfect interpolation 
is a background-noise level that is 
present regardless of the precision of 
the D/A converter used to reproduce 
the waveform. Noise from this source 
is termed interpolation noise. 

The problem with interpolation is 
that multiplication and division 
operations are required. Even the 



simplest linear-interpolation scheme 
requires two table-lookup operations, 
one multiplication, and one addition; 
and therefore such a scheme is not 
practical in a real-time synthesis pro- 
gram for a microcomputer. In the 
software described later in this arti- 
cle, the fractional part of the pointer 
is simply ignored when table lookup 
is performed, which is equivalent to 
truncating the pointer to the next 
lower integer value. It is important to 
note that rounding the pointer (to the 
closest integer value, up or down), 
rather than truncating it, has no audi- 
ble effect on the interpolation-noise 
level, contrary to some published 
data. Rounding merely shifts the 
phase of the reproduced waveform 
slightly. 

The amount of interpolation noise 
depends on the length of the wave- 
form-sample table, the interpolation 
algorithm, and the properties of the 
actual waveform being scanned. In 
general, doubling the length of the 
table will reduce interpolation noise 
by 6 dB, a substantial but not drama- 
tic change. If the noise level from 
truncation (zero-order interpolation) 
is — n decibels, then the noise level 
from f-th order polynomial interpola- 
tion is — (i+l)ti decibels, a dramatic 



82 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



'From an efficient lK-byte control system DOS 
to high level languages such as FORTRAN 
and Pascal, no other 
microcomputer disk 
systems manufacturer 
provides the range and 
quality of development 
and application programs 
available from Percom." 






"Connie is running a 'cats eye' test on a mini-disk 
drive to check radial track alignment. Drive motor- 
speed timing and sensor alignment tests have already 
been performed. Disk formatting and format 
verification tests are next. These 
measurements are part of the 
100% testing every single 
unit receives." 



"Whether you call about a 
shipping date or ask a tough 
technical question, you get a 
competent courteous answer. 
Outstanding customer service j 
is a hallmark of Percom.' 1 





"Richard's making final 
changes to a disk controller 
" which will allow Percom drives to 
be used with yet another computer. 
We're constantly developing and 
introducing new products that extend 
and enhance jfffiTiM the value of 

Percom 
systems." 



"Slipping a circuit board through the eye of a needle would 

be easier than slipping a cold solder joint past Beverly. These 

are four-drive LFD-400/800 disk system controllers 

she's inspecting." 




Circle 47 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 81 




"Percom Sells More 
Microcomputer Disk 

Systems Than Any 
Other Peripherals 
Manufacturer. 

I'd like to 
show you 
why: 



%f 



"Percom has been manufacturing mini-disk storage systems for microcomputers since 1977 
when we introduced the 35-track, single-drive LFD-400™. Now we produce 1-, 2- and 3-drive 
systems in 40- and 77 -track versions, a multi-density MEGABASE™ system and a host 
of accessories and software. 

"Volume not only means experience in critical production and testing operations, it also 
means we can offer superior design features, extra testing and qualified backup support at 
very competitive prices. 
"I know of no other microcomputer disk system manufacturer who even begins to offer 

the broad spectrum of disk equipment and programs available from Percom." 
"So before you buy a mini-disk system for your 6800, 6809 or TRS-80* computer, take a 
good look at what the people at Percom have to offer." Harold Mauch 

President, Percom Data Company 



Percom disk systems start at only $399.00. Disk systems and other 
quality Percorfi products are available at computer dealers nationwide. 
Call toll-free, 1-800-527-1592, for the locations of dealers in your 
area, or to order direct. 



PEflGOM 



PERCOM DATA COMPANY, INC. 

211 N. KIRBY GARLAND, TEXAS 7504E 
(214J 272-3421 

PRiCES AND SPECIFICATIONS SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE. 

TM trademark of Percom Data Company, Inc. 'trademark of Tandy Radio Shack Corporation which has no relationship to Percom Data Company. 



80 BYTE April 1980 



Circle 44 on inquiry card. 







New Products 




OKioata 

MicroLine 80 

Compact, lightweight 80 cps line 
printer; 9X7 matrix . . . friction, pin 
or tractor feed! 132 column w/com- 
pressed print, graphics, and more! 

Call for PNcel 




Atari 800 



The "timeless" home computer 
system: expandable memory, ad- 
vanced components, compre- 
hensive software library. 

Call for Price! 




Mattel intelllvlslon 

Transforms your home TV into a 
family center for games, enter- 
tainment, education and household 
management. Separate master and 
keyboard components. 

Call lor Price! 



Prices subject to change without notice; prod- 
ucts subject to availability. 



MicroWor Id Attacks Inflation With 
Free Freight, Low Pricing . . . 



MicroWorld introduces the most attractive 
mail-order offer in the computer industry. 
The nation's largest inventory, plus our 
own automated order processing, allows 
us to pass along unrivaled cost savings. 
And now, as an additional measure to 
counter inflation, we offer free freight on 
any product featured on this page. Well 
pay the surface freight on all pre-paid 
products in this ad, to any of 18,000 U.S. 
tariffed locations. No handling charges, 
add-on costs, insurance fees or credit 
card fees! Most items are in stock for fast 
delivery at exceptional discounts! 



sorocio 120 




Comprint GP 

1 i i **un& l\ 



TeleVldBO 920B 




Novation Cat 




High quality, 
text editing ter- 
minal, 73-key 
board, built-in 
2KRAM,RS232 
interface. 

$789 



Low priced 
electrostatic 
matrix printer, 
225 cps; ideal 
for personal 
computers, or 
professional 
applications 
requiring sec- 
ond printer. 

Call for Price! 

Low-cost ter- 
minal loaded 
with features: 
full-function 
keyboard, 
24X80 display, 
blink, reverse, 
self-test! 

Call for Prlcei 

Acoustic mod- 
em with origi- 
nate or answer 
modes over 
phone lines; 
compatible 
with any Bell 
103 modem. 

Call for Prlcei 



Call us before you buy anywhere else. 
Find out their total cost. Then compare 
with our low, freight-free price. Our industry- 
trained staff stands behind every order. 
We're the source you can trust. We grew 
up with the microelectronics revolution. 
We helped pioneer its growth. Our Free 
Freight program, our attractive pricing, 
and off the-shelf delivery are our "thanks" 
to the thousands of satisfied computer 
users who made MicroWorld the world's 
leading mail-order source for micro- 
computers and peripherals! 



Texas instruments 

99/4 Home Computer 

Superior 
sound, 16 col- 
ors, graphics; 
low price in- 
cludes 13" 
^ color monitor, 
16 bit CPU, Tl 
BASIC and 
more! 




Tl 810 



Call lor Prlcei 




150 cps, RS 
232C tractors, 
3" to 15" form 
width; bi-direc- 
tional printing. 
An industry 
standard. 

$1589 

zenith-Heath Data Systems 

Z-89 All-in-One Computer 

Two Z80 pro- 
cessors, mini- 
floppy drives, 
25X80 display, 
16K expand- 
able to 48K! 

Call tor Prlcei 




North Star Horizon 



C^ 



Quad- or double- 
density, while 
they last! Plus, 
hard disk drives 
for expansive 
storage require- 
ments. 

Call for Prlcei 



freeI -800-528-1418 



©Copyright 1980 The Phoenix Group, Inc. 



125 W. 12 PI. • Tempe, AZ 85281 • 602-884-11 



Listing 1: A routine written in assembler 
language for the 6502 microprocessor. 
This routine generates a sawtooth 
waveform, such as the one shown in 
figure 1. 



1 






127 


A 






64 



-64 

128 


/ 










/ 



LOOP: 



CLC 

ADC FREQ 
STA DAC 
JMP LOOP 



CLEAR CARRY FLAG 
ADD FREQ TO ACC 
SEND RESULT TO D/A 
LOOP FOREVER 



code in listing 1 will generate it. In 
essence, the accumulator (register A) 
is the sawtooth generation register, 
and the content of the memory loca- 
tion FREQ determines the frequency 
of repetition of the sawtooth wave- 
form. For example, assume that the 
accumulator initially contains the 
value and that FREQ contains a 1. 
Each time around the loop, the accu- 
mulator will be incremented so it will 
contain successive values (in two's 
complement arithmetic) of 0, +1, 
+ 2, . . .,+125, +126, +127, -128, 

-127, -126 -2, -1, 0, +1, 

+2, etc. The incrementing represents 
the smooth upward ramp of the 
waveform while the overflow from 
+ 127 to —128 represents the retrace 




ORIGINAL 
SAWTOOTH 



ABSOLUTE VALUE 



RAW 
TRIANGLE 



SUBTRACT 64 



SHIFTED 
TRIANGLE 



SHIFT LEFT ONE BIT 



FINAL 
TRIANGLE 



Figure 2: Method for transforming 
samples of a sawtooth waveform into 
samples of a triangular waveform. First 
the absolute value of the contents of the 
accumulator is determined. A constant 
value, 64, is subtracted from the accu- 
mulator. The remaining value is multi- 
plied by 2; the multiplication is performed 
by the simple method of shifting the 
binary value one bit to the left. 



P&T CP/M®2 unleashes the POWER 
of your TRS-80 MODEL II 

Pickles & Trout has adapted CP/M 2, one of the world's most 
popular operating systems, to the TRS-80 Model II and the 
result is spectacular: 



• 596K bytes of usable stor- 
age at double density 

• Runs both singleand double 
density disks with automatic 
density select 

• Single drive backup 

• Multi-drive software can run 
on a 1 drive system 

•Operates with 1, 2, 3, or 4 
drives 

• Full function CRT control 

• Type-ahead buffer for key- 
board input 



• Full access to both serial 
ports and parallel printer 
port 

• Fully software program- 
mable serial ports 

• Loads an 18K Basic in 2.5 
seconds 

• Full compatibility with exist- 
ing CP/M software and ap- 
plication packages 

• Full set of 7 CP/M manuals 
plus our own for the TRS-80 
Model II 




Introductory price: $175 

Prepaid, COD, Mastercharge or Visa orders accepted. 
Shipping extra. California residents add 6% sales tax. 



VISA 



S^tfT PICKLES & TROUT 

1 ROU 1 P.O. BOX 1206. GOLETA, CA 93017, (805) 967-9563 

CP/M is a trademark of Digital Research Inc. TRS-80 is a trademark of Tandy Corp. 



or "flyback" of the waveform, the 
point where the signal drops to its 
extreme negative value. If FREQ con- 
tained a 2, then the ramp-flyback 
sequence would be repeated twice as 
fast and result in a sawtooth of twice 
the frequency, provided that the loop 
time, which is the interval between 
samples from the D/A converter, 
remains constant. 

Figure 2 illustrates how the samples 
representing a sawtooth wave can be 
transformed into samples represent- 
ing a triangle waveform. Although 
the appearance is similar, the sound is 
quite different. The sawtooth wave 
has a robust, somewhat buzzy sound 
while the triangle has a mellow, fluty 
timbre. The actual operations in- 
volved are simply finding the abso- 
lute value of the sawtooth samples, 
subtracting a constant, and multi- 
plying by 2 (which is done by a 
simple register-shift operation). 

A rectangular waveform is even 
easier to derive and is illustrated in 
figure 3. The sawtooth samples are 
simply compared to a width value; 
+ 127 is output if the samples are 
equal to or greater than the width, or 
— 128 is output if the samples are less. 
The timbre of the rectangle varies 
from the kazoo sound of a square 
wave (width = 0) to something very 
similar to a sawtooth (width = 64) to 
a thin buzz (width = 120). 

The most interesting standard 
waveform, however, is the sine wave. 
Since complicated math cannot be 
used, the normal series approxima- 



1 
127 


i 


/ 




TH VALUE 


a HIGH 


64 


-64 
-128 

1 

127 

64 



-64 


/ 






1 LOW 


i 




















-128 













Figure 3: Derivation of a rectangular 
waveform. The value of samples from a 
sawtooth waveform are compared with 
some constant width value. If the 
sawtooth value is greater than or equal to 
the width value, the constant +127 is sent 
to the D/A converter. If the sawtooth 
value is less than the width value, the con- 
stant — 128 is sent to the D/A converter. 



78 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 42 on inquiry card. 



Circle 43 on inquiry card. , 



HAZELT1NE 1500,1510, 1520 

Outstanding reliability. Clearest video image in 
this price range. Excellent single & quantity 
pricing. Also available with 50Hz. and French, 
German, Swedish characters. 

IBM CRT 3101 $1,295 

9 x 16 dot matrix. Selectric-like keyboard. 
Works on 50Hz., 220V. 

TELEV1DEO Smart CRTs. 

Many edit features and remote commands. B 
models have TTY-like keyboard; C models 
have Selectric-like keyboards. 

912B $745 912C $780 

920B $795 920C $850 

SOROC 1Q 120 $865 



4116 RAM CHIPS ... 

For Superbrain and TRS-80 
IMS 16K Memory, 250 ns 



,.$10 
.$340 



CALIFORNIA COMPUTER 

SYSTEMS $270 

16 K memory, Runs in 4MHZ systems without 
wait states. Excellent value. 

Call on us for product sheets. 

Dealer inquiry invited. 

(Prices subject to change without notice.) 



IMS 5000 SYSTEM $2,765 

Z-80 CPU, S- 100. Runs CP/M.® Dual, double 
density 9k drives, 32K RAM. 

IMS 8000 $4,185 

Like 500 system but with 8 inch drives. 
Double sided drives also available. Expansion 
to 64K, four drives. 



MARINCHIP 9900 

16 BIT CPU $700 

Extensive software package included in price. 
Text editor and word processor worth over 
$500 by itself! Manuals skillfully written. 
CPU Kit $550 

DRIVES 

SIEMENS $450 SHUGART . .$525 

MPI 851 $275 PER SCI 277$1,210 

and the beautiful INNOTRONICS . . .$525 
(John favors the INNOTRONICS for their 
construction and performance.) 

TEI MAINFRAMES 

12 slots $500 22 slots $670 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 

PRINTERS 810 

820 $1,795 745 .... 



$1,695 
.$1,075 



PAPER TIGER 

with graphics ..... 



.$945 

..$100 



TELETYPE MODEL 43 $985 

withRS232 $1,085 

220 v. transformer, installed $100 

tractor feeder mechanism $100 

DEC LA 34 $1,159 

Plug compatible alternative to the hard-tivget 
TTY43 

DEC LA 35/36 UPGRADE . . . $750 

Increases baud rate to 1200. Microprocessor 
controlled. Many features including TOF, tabs 
and margins control. Quantity pricing. 

NEC SP1NWRITER 5510. . . $3,000 

DIABLO 1640 KSR $3,195 

These prices include tractor 

QUME SPRINT 5/55 $3,380 

CONTROLLERS 

KONAN Hard disk, S-100 $1,550 

TELETEK Double density $415 

tor $¥* and 8 inch and single density 
TARBELL Double density $385 

MODEM: The CAT from Novation $179 
Originate/answer 

CODs accepted at no extra charge. 
Shipping: $13 for light printers and CRTs. 
Credit cards add 4%. NY residents add tax. 



WE EXPORT 

Overseas Callers: 

Phone 212 448-6298 

or TWX 710 588 2844 

or Cable: OWENSASSOC 



JOHN D. OWENS 

Associates, Inc. 

12 Schubert Street 
Staten Island, New York 10305 
212 448-6283 • 212 448-6298 



We Are Known for Our 

Prompt and Courteous Service! 

We have no reader 

inquiry number. 
Please call or write. 



IMMEDIATE DELIVERY — FROM ORANGE MICRO 

M BASE 2 PRINTER 

$54900 




TELEVIDEO 912B 
$75900 

STANDARD FEATURES (partial list) 

• Reverse video, Underline, Blinking, 

Reduced 

• Protected fields, Security Blank fields. 

• Block or Conversational modes. 

• Editing: Line orCharacter; Insert/Delete. 

• Tab, Backtab; Columnar tab. 

• 14 key numeric pad with return key. 

• RS232 Printer Port 

OPTIONAL: 

• Deluxe Selectric® Keyboard: $ 75 00 

• 2nd Page Memory: s 80 00 

• 11 Special function keys and 

8 edit keys: s 70 00 





FEATURES: 

• 72, 80, 96, 120 or 132 Columns per line. 

• Bi-directional, 7 dot matrix, impact. 

• Graphics Capability. 

• RS232, Centronics®, IEEE-488, 20 ma. 

• 60LPM /Fast feed. 

• User Programmable Character Fonts. 

• 16 Baud Rates -to 19,200. 

• Expanded Characters. 

OPTIONAL: 

• 2K Memory Buffer: *50 00 

• Tractor Mechanism: $ 50 00 



Phone orders WELCOME. Same day shipment for VISA and MASTER CHARGE. 
Personal checks require 2 weeks to clear. Add 3% for shipping and handling. CA 
residents add 6%. Manufacturer's warranty included. Prices subject to revision. 




FREEH 

RS232 CABLE* 
$ 25 00 Value 



Digicom Coupler 

ORIGINATE 



*179 



00 



' with initial order of 
CRT or Printer 



COMPARE QUALITY, 
FEATURES & DISCOUNT 



Products also available: 

Qume, MPI, Lear Siegler, Cables, 

System Furniture 

CALL OR WRITE FOR PRICES 



CALL (714) 630-3322 




POST OFFICE BOX 2076 
YORBA LINDA, CALIFORNIA 92686 



Circle 41 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 77 



Circle 40 on inquiry card. 



GET IT 

OFF THE 

FLOOR 





Now that you have a shiney new 
computer terminal, what are you 
going to put it on? Computer Furni- 
ture and Accessories makes a variety 
of furniture for a wide range of com- 
puter applications. In combinations 
of six widths, three depths, and three 
heights. With "L" shaped returns, 
Micro shelves, data shelves, RETMA 
mounting, and printer stands. With 
optional drawers, doors, CRT turn- 
tables, and casters. Sizes, shapes 
and colors designed to fit your office 
or computer room environment. Rea- 
sonably priced and shipped from 
stock. 

Call CF&A. We'll get your system up 
where you can really put it to use. 



CF*A 



Computer Furniture and 

Accessories, Inc. 

1441 West 132nd Street 

Gardena, CA 90249 

(213)327-7710 



will allow signal frequencies up to 
about 40% of the sample rate to be 
utilized. Thus a sample frequency of 
50 kHz is suitable for covering the full 
audio range from 20 Hz to 20 kHz. 
Because the bandwidth of commercial 
frequency -modulated (FM) radio 
broadcasts is limited by the Federal 
Communications Commission (FCC) 
to 15 kHz, a 37 kHz sample rate is 
sufficient for FM broadcast applica- 
tions. The 5 kHz bandwidth of 
amplitude-modulated (AM) radio re- 
quires a sample rate of at least 12.5 
kHz. Speech can be understood and 
the speaker can be identified at sam- 
ple rates down to 6 kHz. 

Six bits of resolution in a D/A con- 
verter gives a 36 to 40 dB signal-to- 
noise ratio, which is comparable to 
that obtained with inexpensive, 
audio-cassette tape recorders that 
utilize DC record bias. Eight bits 
yields about 50 dB, which is in the 
range obtained with cassette 
machines costing $50 to $100. Ten 
bits of resolution gives a ratio of a lit- 
tle over 60 dB, which challenges the 
best home audio tape recorders and 
most phonograph disks. Professional 
mastering audio tape recorders have a 
difficult time keeping up with 12-bit 
D/A conversion, while 14- and 16-bit 
conversion must be listened to "live" 
for full effect since any analog record- 
ing device will add a considerable 
amount of noise (comparatively) to 
the signal. 

Professionals working in the digital 
audio field generally consider 16-bit 
conversion at a 50 kHz sample rate to 
be a level of performance which need 
never be exceeded. A practical goal 
for microcomputer music synthesis is 
12 bits at a 35 kHz sample rate, while 
half that rate would be ample to 
replace the function of home organs 
and pianos. 

The programs, experiments, and 
results that will be discussed in the 
remainder of this article utilize 8-bit 
conversion at a rate of approximately 
8 kHz. The effect is similar to that of 
listening to an AM car radio while 
speeding down the highway; and 
many people do the majority of their 
music listening in exactly this way. 
Actually, the quantization noise 
caused by 8-bit conversion is far less 
than the wind and road noise would 
be, but it is definitely audible. 



ACCUMULATOR 
VALUE 






127 








100 








50 



-50 












TIME 


-100 




y^-RAMP ^r 


/ 


-128 




* RETRACE 



Figure 1: Generation of a sawtooth 
waveform by software. Coordinate points 
along the waveform are generated by con- 
tinuously adding a constant value, FR.EQ, 
to the accumulator (register A). The point 
values (samples) are sent to the D/A con- 
verter. A close-up circle demonstrates the 
inevitable stair-step quality of the curve 
reproduced from discrete samples. The 
6502 assembler code to produce the 
sawtooth is shown in listing 1. 



Computing Waveform Samples 

The real challenge in programming 
a D/A converter-based music system 
is of course computing the sound 
waveforms at a constant high speed. 
In particular, the calculations cannot 
use any multiplication or division 
operations (except by powers of 2) 
since only one such operation would 
require more time (100 to 150 jis for 
an 8-bit by 8-bit software multiply) 
than is available between samples. 
Actually, these restrictions apply 
only to a real-time music-playing pro- 
gram; sound waveform samples can 
also be computed using whatever 
mathematical operations are desired, 
and the samples can be saved on a 
disk as they are computed for later 
playback at a higher speed. Im- 
plementation of such non-real-time 
programs on personal-computer 
hardware will be the next step in 
improving microcomputer music 
synthesis quality and flexibility. 
More will be said about this possi- 
bility later. 

There are a few waveforms that 
can be quickly computed without the 
need for multiplication and division. 
In fact, these turn out to be the same 
waveforms that are easy to generate 
by analog electrical circuits and are 
therefore used by most analog music 
synthesizers. 

Perhaps the easiest is a sawtooth 
waveform, which is illustrated in 
figure 1; the 6502 assembler-language 



76 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Store Hours: 
Mori - Fri 9-5:30 
Ask for spec sheets 



EXTRA SPECIAL PRICES & DELIVERY 



Domestic & International 
Dealer Inquiries Invited 



PAPER TIGER PRINTER 

Includes Graphics (New low price) $ 949 

Best quality cables for TRS-80 & Apple, In stock $ 39 

TI 810 SERIAL PRINTER 

Shipping included on TI's $1725 

TI 820 SERIAL PRINTER 

Full package $1995 

Q D P - 1 00 State Of The Art Reliable - Powerful 
Complete - Up & Running Powered & Programmed 



SUPERBRAIN COMPUTER 

34K System $2995 

64K System (CP/M & Basic included) Add $ 195 

INTERTEC INTERTUBE TErSInaT 

Checked and tested by us $ 797 

ATARI-VIDEO COMPUTER 
SYSTEM 800 

8K RAM, Basic, cassette recorder $ 895 

Software & disk drives available 

SINGLE BOARD COMPUTER 

4MHZZ-80, DBL sided, DBL density disk controller, 2716 prom burner, 2 parallel & 2 Ser. 
ports, real time clock. Bios for CRM 2.2, monitor in prom This is absolutely the best board 
we have ever seen. It plus the Cen. Data 64K memory board gives you a complete system. 
One year parts & labor guarantee. (The best) $ 995 



QDP 100 



• Two 8" double-sided, 
double density floppies 

• Monitor in Prom 

• 64K Memory 
• Int. 2716 Prom Burner 



• Full editing, smart CRT terminal 



• Disk Controller— up to 4 M.B 





• Four ports 



2 Serial 2 Parallel 



• Basic language included 
• S 100 Motherboard 



• CP/M 2.2 included 



• Real time clock 



• Z-80 4MHZ CPU 




Quasar Computer System 



Take a good look at the other machines on the market and compare. Our system is burned in, fully tested 
and assembled. The CPU Board is warranted for parts and labor for one year. Please call and we'll tell you more. 
Stock to 30 days ARO . . $4795 



CENTRAL DATA 4MHZ 64K 

Dynamic Ram Bd. assembled & tested 
16K - $250 32K - $350 48K - $450 64K 



$549 



TELETEK DBL. DENSITY, DBL. SIDED 

Disk Controller Board $ 395 

(The best) includes cable & source bios 

MFE DBL. SIDED, DBL. DENSITY 

Floppy disk drives (the best) $ 650 

Using the Teletek Controller under CP/M, this drive will give 

you almost one megabyte per disk drive 

Power supply for above $ 110 




SOFTWARE 

Integrated Accounting System g/l, a/p, a/r, p/r, inv $1500 

Selector III Data Base Management System $ 295 

Wordstar by Micro Pro Word Processing System $ 445 

C Basic $ 109 

QUASAR FLOPPY SYSTEM 

• Two MFE DBL sided drives * Cable • Case & Power Supply 
assembled and tested Special $1695 

QUASAR 2 MEG FLOPPY 

Special -$2095 

• 2 MFE double sided drives * Wood cabinet 

• Teletek disk controller board • CP/M version 2.2 & bios 

• Power supply & cable • Assembled & tested 



[master charge] 



Checks, money orders accepted 
Add $2.50 freight charges on orders under 10 lbs. Over 10 lbs. F.O.B. Cleveland 

QUASAR DATA PRODUCTS 

25151 Mitchell Dr., No.Olmsted, Ohio 44070 (216)779-9387 



Circle 39 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 75 



Circle 38 on inquiry card. 



Bringing Music 
Home 

LET MICRO MUSIC TURN YOUR 

APPLE II INTOA 

FAMILY MUSIC CENTER! 

. Sing along 

. Compose 

. Play 

. Learn from Specialists 





/ 



"NEW RETAIL PRICE 
$179,00" 

"Expanded Music Composer" — 
available mid-summer, incorpor- 
ating Hal Chamberlin's Envelop- 
ing Techniques, Advanced Edit- 
ing, and much, much more. (See 
Hal's article in this issue of BYTE 
on "Advanced Real-Time Music 
Synthesis Techniques. " 

All MMI upgrades are in software 
technology-not hardware. Your 
Micro Music DAC will work for 
any version of Music Composer. 

Ask your local dealer for informa- 
tion on MMI products, or contact: 



I™ t\J rJ[ | 



Micro Music inc 009) 452 -6991 

309 Beaufort University Plaza, Normal, IL 41761 

74 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



at much higher frequencies than the 
desired signal. Thus, use of a low- 
pass filter (one that allows low fre- 
quencies through, but blocks high fre- 
quencies) will block the distortion 
and pass the signal distortion-free. 

In fact, it turns out that if a signal 
of frequency / is to be reproduced 
using a sample rate of r, then the 
lowest frequency distortion compo- 
nent produced will have a frequency 
equal to the difference /-r. If the 
sound is complex and therefore con- 
tains many frequency components, 
the above applies to each component 
individually. 

As long as the distortion compo- 
nents are higher in frequency than the 
desired signal components, the distor- 
tion components may be filtered out, 
although the closer the two sets of 
components approach each other in 
frequency the better the filter must 
be. The limit occurs when signal fre- 
quencies approach one half of the 
sample rate from below, since the 
distortion will then be approaching 
one half of the sample rate from 
above, and the filter has to be very 
good to separate the two. Any at- 
tempt to reproduce signal frequencies 
higher than this limit will result in the 
distortion getting through the filter 
and the signal being blocked! 

In many ways this is a surprising 
result, since just two and a fraction 
sample points per cycle of a sine wave 
is a very coarse approximation 
indeed. Although this frequency- 
domain argument just given is the 
easiest to prove mathematically, most 
people have a hard time believing 
that a simple low-pass filter can con- 
vert such a mess, which may not even 
be the same shape for each cycle of 
the reproduced waveform, into a 
smooth, distortion-free sine wave. 
The best explanation is that when a 
system is expected to operate close to 
the one-half -sample-rate limit, the 
filter is not simple at all; it must be a 
multisection, sharp-cutoff design. All 
sharp-cutoff filters ring (oscillate in a 
usually undesired manner) when 
given a short signal pulse or the edge 
of a square wave, and the sharper 
they are, the longer they ring after 
being excited. It is this ringing, which 
is a damped sine wave, that fills in the 
gaps between samples with just the 
right curve to give a distortion-free 
output. 

Quantization in amplitude, which 
is the result of roundoff error, is not 



so well behaved. Unfortunately, dis- 
tortion from this source is spread 
evenly throughout the audio-fre- 
quency range, and as such is better 
characterized as noise. This quantiza- 
tion noise cannot be filtered out; it 
can only be reduced through the use 
of higher-resolution D/A converters. 
Every D/A converter has a limit to 
the loudness or amplitude of the 
signals it can process; this limit is 
determined by the range of numeric 
values the D/A converter can handle. 
When we compare the amount of 
quantization noise with the loudest 
possible signal that the D/A con- 
verter can handle, we can determine a 
factor called the dynamic range or 
maximum signal-to-noise ratio (S/N 
ratio) of the system. The dynamic 
range is given in decibels (dB). Simply 
put, this ratio will be 6h+4 dB for n 
greater than about 5, where n is the 
number of bits of resolution, in- 
cluding the sign bit, of the D/A or 
A/D converter in use. Real con- 
verters have errors of their own that 
introduce excess noise, so a handy 
rule of thumb is simply bn dB. 

Table scanning is the key 
to D/A-converter-based 
microcomputer music. 

Note that this signal-to-noise ratio 
is greatest when the signal is on the 
verge of overload. Lesser signal 
amplitudes will degrade the ratio 
since the noise amplitude is essential- 
ly constant (at very low signal levels 
the noise amplitude will vary some, 
and at zero-signal amplitude the noise 
will be zero as well). 

Recently, exponential D/A con- 
verters have become available which 
are claimed to be better suited for 
audio use. What actually happens is 
that an absolute maximum signal-to- 
noise ratio is traded for a ratio that is 
lower but more constant with varying 
signal amplitudes. When the D/A 
converter has 8 bits of precision, the 
resulting signal-to-noise ratio is 
rather low (35 dB), but when the 
precision is 12 bits or more, the ex- 
ponential conversion method has im- 
portant advantages. 

Now let us consider practical mat- 
ters, taking into account these 
frequency-response and noise-level 
properties of digital audio produc- 
tion. First, a practical low-pass filter 



CENTRONICS PUTS IT IN PRINT 

MORE PERFORMANCE 

FOR LOWER PRICES. 



^H 



■ 



h 



■ 



■ 



xm 









■ 






'l^.^SM 




With the introduction of their new 
"Dash 9" Series of low-priced printers, 
newly improved and geared to meet your 
particular application needs, the small 
business can now enjoy Centronics' fea- 
tures and reliability. You can have high 
throughput for inventory control, full 
132 column width for accounts receiv- 
able, versatile forms-handling capability 



for invoicing, payroll and statements, and 
exellent print quality for labels and list- 
ings. Plus, there's a new acoustic cover 
for more streamlined appearance and 
quieter operation in an office environ- 
ment. 

And like all Centronics printers, the 
"Dash 9" Series is fully supported by the 
largest worldwide service organization of 



any printer company. 

See them at your nearest dealer who is 
backed by Hamilton/Avnet's Centronics in- 
ventory for immediate delivery. 




E L E C 



m 



f a avof&miK 



CENTRONICS FROM HAMILTON AVNET 




SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Avnet, L.A (213) 558 2345 



World's largest local distributor with 40 locations stocking the world's finest lines of system components 

ROCKY MOUNTAIN GREAT LAKES 

Salt Lake City (801)972 2800 
Denver (303)779 9998 

Albuquerque (505) 765 1500 
NORTH CENTRAL 
Chtcago (312) 678 6310 

Minneapolis (612)941-3801 
Milwaukee (414) 784-4510 



WE HAVE 
LOCAL STOCK! 



Avnet, O.C. 

Hamilton, L.A. 

Hamilton, O.C. 
SOUTHWEST 

San Dei go 

Phoenix 
NORTHWEST 

San Francisco 

Portland 

Seattle 



(714) 7546111 
1213) 558-2121 
(714)641 4100 

(714)571 7510 
(602) 275-7851 

(408) 743 3355 

(503)635-8831 
(206) 746 8750 



Cleveland (216)831-3500 

Dayton (513) 4330610 

Detroit (313)5224700 

SOUTH CENTRAL 



MID CENTRAL 
Kansas City 
St. Louis 



(913) 888 8900 
(314)344 1200 



Dallas 
Houston 
Austin 
NORTHEAST 
Boston 
Syracuse 
Rochester 



(214)661 8661 
(713) 780 1771 
(512)837 8911 



(617) 273 7500 
(315)437 2641 
(716) 442 7820 



METROPOLITAN 

Long Island (516) 454-6060 
Connecticut (203) 7620361 
No. New Jersey (201) 575 3390 

MID ATLANTIC 
Baltimore (301) 796 5000 

So. New Jersey (609) 424 0100 
Raleigh (919) 829-8030 

SOUTHEAST CENTRAL 
Atlanta (404) 448 0800 

Huntsville (205) 837 7210 



SOUTHEAST 

St, Petersburg 

Miami 
CANADA 

Toronto 

Montreal 

Ottawa 
INTERNATIONAL 

Telex 66-4329 

Telephone (213) 558 2441 

JAPAN 

Tokyo (03)662 9911 



(813) 576 3930 
(305)971-2900 

(416)677 7432 
(514) 331 6443 
(613) 226 1700 



three-voice, square- wave synthesizer 
that utilizes a custom integrated 
circuit. 

Audio D/A converters are by no 
means absent, however. Newtech has 
a 6-bit unit with a built-in power 
amplifier for S-100 and SS-50 bus 
systems. HUH Electronics has a sim- 
ple 8-bit unit, the Petunia, for Com- 
modore PET computers. My com- 
pany, Micro Technology Unlimited, 
has two versions of a high-quality 
8-bit D/A converter with filter and 
amplifer, one for the Commodore 
PET and the other for general ap- 
plication with any computer having 



an 8-bit parallel output port. Micro 
Music Inc has a similar unit sup- 
ported by software for Apple II 
computers. The Ohio Scientific 
Challenger C4P and C8P models have 
an 8-bit exponential D/A converter 
built-in. 

The fundamental problem with 
D/A synthesis of musical sounds is 
that the waveforms must be com- 
puted at a very high rate of speed for 
an acceptable frequency range in the 
reproduced sound. To do this in real 
time with currently available 8-bit 
microprocessors requires highly effi- 
cient programs and a few compro- 




Here's the information you'll need to make an informed decision. 



Designed for the businessman who knows 
very little about a computer, this new course will 
give you the information and understanding you 
need to intelligently evaluate if the cost of a 
computer is worth the benefits. 

THE COMPUTER AND HOW IT WORKS 
describes the types of memory, storage media, 
input/output devices, and types of software in 
understandable terms. A description of different 
applications software clarifies the typical tasks 
that a computer may perform. 

ORGANIZING A DATA PROCESSING 
DEPARTMENT describes the advantages of full 
time employees vs. consultants, and when each 



is best for your company. 

HOW TO SELECT A COMPUTER helps you 
define your specific requirements for hardware, 
peripherals, and software now and for the 
future. 

ALTERNATIVES of owning vs. time sharing, 
vs. service bureaus and the common advan- 
tages/disadvantages of each. 

Introduction to Computers is 160 pages of text 
with 3 tape cassettes for only $49.95. 



Developed by Vermillion & Assoc, whose 
products are used by over 5000 companies & 15 
computer manufacturers. 

An uninformed decision will cost much more. 



21250 Califa Street, Woodland Hills, California 91367, (800) 423-5205 toll free (213) 999-5753 collect in Calf. 
Please send 



(QTY) courses at 49.95, plus $2.00 shipping and handling per 

course. California residents add 6% sales tax. 

NAME 



_TITLE 



COMPANY 
ADDRESS _ 
CITY _ 



STATE 



_ZIP 



Master Charge/ Visa Card No. 
Signature 



_ Expiration Date 



DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 



mises as well. The results that have 
been obtained to date are well worth 
the effort, however, and are the sub- 
ject of the remainder of this article. 
Higher speed, longer word-length 
microprocessors and cheaper 
memory can only extend the quality 
and flexibility of D/A synthesis to the 
point that synthesizer boards will go 
the way of discrete-transistor logic 
circuits. 

Digital Audio Properties 

For the benefit of those who may 
have not have seen it before, I shall 
now briefly describe the theory of 
D/A and analog-to-digital (A/D) 
conversion. More details, including 
mathematical proofs, may be found 
in many of the references. Every- 
thing discussed applies equally 
well to conversion in both direc- 
tions, although the emphasis is on 
synthesis using D/A conversion. 

A digital-to-analog converter is 
best described as a programmable 
power supply that generates an in- 
stantaneous output voltage (or cur- 
rent) directly proportional to a 
numerical value received from the 
computer, typically through a 
parallel output port. When the pro- 
gram changes the value sent to the 
converter, the output voltage imme- 
diately changes to the new value. 

To approximate an audio wave- 
form, the D/A-converter input is 
rapidly updated with numbers repre- 
senting discrete points along the 
desired continuous waveform. The 
update rate or sample rate is nearly 
always constant and is chosen when 
the system is designed. Obviously 
any finite sample rate will lead to 
some degree of distortion, since the 
D/A converter will be generating a 
stair-step approximation to normally 
well-rounded audio waveforms. 

Another source of distortion is the 
error that results when waveform 
computations are truncated to fit the 
word length of the D/A converter. 
The central question then, is what 
kind of and how much distortion is 
introduced through this two-dimen- 
sional quantization (approximation) 
of smooth audio waveforms. 

Let us look first at sample-rate 
effects, which represent waveform 
quantization in time. It is easily 
shown that when the sampling is 
dense with respect to the frequency 
content of the waveform being repro- 
duced, the distortion components are 



72 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 36 on inquiry card. 



Circle 37 on inquiry card. 




Turning computer programmers 
into computer composers 



"Computer music is moving fast.... 
'The BYTE Book of Computer Music' 
is the type of publication we need.... 
to get maximum application of new 
technology with a minimum amount of 
bookwork. " 

POLYPHONY July/ August 1979 
"...computer enthusiasts will enjoy this 
informative overview of their field. .." 

CONTEMPORARY KEYBOARD 

September 1979 



Whether you're a beginner or an old 
hand, The BYTE Books of Computer 
Music, edited by Christopher P. 
Morgan, will help you get the most out 
of your digital music experiments. 

With this collection of articles from 
past issues of BYTE, plus, new never- 
before-published material, you will 

• Learn the basics of polyphonic 

synthesis 

• See how to play four-part 
melodies on a KIM computer 



Discover how computers can 

interface with pipe organs, 

electronic organs, and player 

pianos 

Get full details on Fast Fourier 

transform programs written in 

BASIC and 6800 machine 

language 

Explore with the "Terrain 



Reader" the ways of 
abstracting music from contour 
maps 
• And much more... 

Buy from your computer bookstore, or 
order direct from BYTE BOOKS. Please 
add 60c per book for postage and 
handling. $10.00 ISBN 0-931718-11-2 



Please send 



copies of The BYTE Book of Computer Music 



Name 



Title 



Company 



Street 



City State /Province 

□ Check enclosed in the amount of $ ; 

D Bill Visa □ Bill Master Charge 

Card No Exp. Date . 



Code 



Add 60c per book to cover postage and handling. 

DTlllJE 70 Main Street 

BLllInia Peterborough, New Hampshire 03458 



M 



Advanced Real-Time Music 
Synthesis Techniques 



Hal Chamberlin 

29 Mead St 

Manchester NH 03104 



At this time, sound and music syn- 
thesis is a well established application 
of small computer systems. Currently 
there is some kind of music program 
for every microcomputer system 
known to the author; even a musical 
calculator advertisement has been 
seen (the unit also calculates). 
All of the recently introduced pack- 
aged personal computers have some 
kind of built-in provision for sound 
generation, and while aimed primari- 
ly at sound effects for games, all have 
music programs of varying degrees of 
sophistication . Several independent 
manufacturers offer more serious 
music software systems, most of 
which make use of specialized music 
hardware as well. All in all, music 
synthesis on personal computer 
systems is taking on greater impor- 
tance every year and soon may ap- 
proach the popularity of accounting, 
word processing, and games as a 
major application area. 

Programmed performance of music 
by a low-cost microcomputer has 
many "practical" applications beyond 
the sheer gratification of coding the 
score, orchestrating the piece, and 
hearing the results. I have heard from 
a man who has taken the four-voice 
synthesis program from my previous 
article "A Sampling of Techniques for 
Computer Performance of Music" 
(September 1977 BYTE, page 62) and 
used it extensively in producing com- 
mercial music for radio and television 
advertising (about 75% of all such 
music is synthesized nowadays). 



Another person has used it with a 
KIM-1 system to supply simulated 
organ music for a small rural church. 
Yet another fills long hours of 
hospital confinement with music 
from an inexpensive single-board 
microcomputer. Some university 
music departments have even dis- 
guised ear-training exercises for 
students as a stimulating computer 
game. Surely music synthesis as an 
everyday application of personal 
computers need not be justified 
further. 

Perceived difficulties in 
computing waveforms 
fast enough for real-time 
performance have limited 
the application of D/A 
conversion in low-cost 
systems. 

At this point, the discussion is 
going to be confined to the more ad- 
vanced microcomputer-music-syn- 
thesis systems. Such a system must be 
able to synthesize at least three tones 
simultaneously (for chords) and have 
some degree of control over the tim- 
bre (tone color) of the notes so that 
"orchestration" of the piece becomes 
a variable. 

Fundamental Synthesis 
Techniques 

A computer may produce musical 
sounds either by controlling the 



operation of an external sound syn- 
thesizer or by computing the sound 
waveform itself and using a digital- 
to-analog (D/A) converter to make it 
audible. Of these two methods it 
would seem that computing the 
waveform is more desirable; then 
the system would not be limited by 
the quantity and variety of external 
sound-generating elements. This is in- 
deed the case, but perceived dif- 
ficulties in computing waveforms fast 
enough for real-time performance 
have limited the application of the 
D/A conversion method in low-cost 
systems. 

Because of this, we find an abun- 
dance of synthesizer boards on the 
market and a relative dearth of D/A 
converters with the necessary audio- 
postprocessing circuitry and support- 
ing software. One example of a cur- 
rently available synthesizer board is 
the SSM SB-1 (for S-100 bus 
systems), which allows control over 
the frequency, waveform, and ampli- 
tude for a single tone per board. ALF 
Products offers a small Apple II- 
compatible synthesizer (as well as a 
larger S-100 bus unit) which allows 
control over the frequency and ampli- 
tude of three rectangular waveforms 
per board. RCA has an inexpensive, 
two-voice, square-wave synthesizer 
for its COSMAC VIP system which 
can be used in multiples for more 
complex music. While the previous 
devices are add-on accessories, the 
Texas Instruments 99/4 personal 
computer has a built-in, 



70 April I960 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 103 on inquiry card. 



I" 



ANDTRS-80 MODEL II. 
RUNNING THE SHOW. 



TRS-80 Model 11 is designed for 
professional business applications. 
Your ultimate goal for your Model II 
is probably a fast, turnkey system that's 
easy to use and easy to expand. To get 
there you need dependable, flexible 
system software to write the programs 
that run the whole show. 

Microsoft's COBOL-80 and BASIC 
compilers are now available in 
versions fully compatible with Model 
It TRSDOS. You can have either of 
these universally popular program- 
ming languages plus all the advantages 
of a compiler: faster execution times, 
compact executable code, security 

for your programs. 
With Microsoft's compiled languages 

you get a complete program develop- 
ment system, including our standard 
MACRO80 Assembler and LI N K-8'0 
Unking Loader. Your compiled 
programs are relocatable modules 
that can be linked to each other or 
to Z80 assembly language subroutines. 

COBOL-80 Compiler 

Microsoft's COBOL-80 is an ANSI- 
74 standard COBOL that su pports such 
advanced data manipulation verbs 
as COMPUTE, INSPECT; STRING, 
UNSTRING, and SEARCH. Plus three- 
dimension arrays, full COPY facility, 
compound and abbreviated conditions, 
and an optional packed decimal format 
that saves on mass storage by as much 
as 40%. In addition to Sequential and 
Relative files, COBOL provides 
indexed files, allowing records to be 
retrieved with a user-specified key 
instead of a record number. 

Interactive Screen Handling Most 
business applications require machine 
interaction, formatted screen displays, 
and the ability to insert and delete 
information as the machine prompts 
the user. The COBOL ACCEPT/ 
DISPLAY verbs are implemented for 
this purpose— to DISPLAY formatted. 
screens and ACCEPT operator input. 

CHAIN and Segmentation I deal 

for menu-driven application programs 
is COBOL-80's CHAIN feature. With 




COBOL-80 formatted screen display 



CHAIN, control is transferred from 
the menu program to any executable 
module as specified at runtime. 
COBOL-80 also supports Segmenta- 
tion to make maximum use of memory 
when large programs are executing . 

BASIC Compiler 

The Microsoft BASIC Compiler has 
the fastest execution times of any 
BASIC available. It is language com- 
patible with the Model I t's interpreter 
so you can write and test your programs 
usi ng t he i nterpreter, then compi I e 
them for secure storage and efficient 
execution; 

New BASIC Features In addition 
to those language features provided 
with the interpreter, the BASIC com- 
piler supports all the latest features 
of Microsoft BASIC 5.1: WHILE con- 
ditional statement, CALL, long variable 
names, and ANSI compatibility. Plus 
the compiler has double precision 
transcendental functions (SIN, COS, 
■TAN, Am LOG, EXP, SQR). 
Secure Besides being an indispens- 
able system software tool for develop- 
ing your own utilities and application 
programs, the BASIC compiler is ideal 
for producing programs for resale. 
The machine code for any application 
program may be placed on a diskette, 
ROM, or other media, but the BASIC 
source program need not be distrib- 
uted. Thus the original application 
program is protected from unautho- 
rized alteration. 



"W" 








• 110 I- 


4*J: K = 


(4*J-1] AND&HOFFO 


• **0025' 


L00110: 


LD 


HL,U°W 


• **0028' 




ADD 


HL.HL 


• **Q029' 




ADD 


HL.HL 


• **002A' 




LD 


CI°/q].HL 


• **002D' 




DEC 


HL 


e **002E' 




LD 


A,L 


e **002F' 




AND 


FO 


e **0031' 




LD 


L,A 


e **0032' 




LD 


A,H 


• **0033' 




AND 


OF 


e **0035' 




LD 


H,A 


• «003B' 




LD 


(K<UHL 


1 • 









BASIC compiler object code listing 

Optimized Machine Code Compiled 
BASIC programs are fast and com- 
pact due to extensive optimizations 
performed during compilation: 

1 . Expressions are reordered to 
minimize temporary storage and 
eliminate common subexpressions 

2. Constants are folded wherever 
possible 3- Peephole optimizations 
are performed 4. The code generator 
is template-driven, allowing optimal 
sequences to be generated for the 
most commonly used operations 

5. String operations and garbage 
collection are extremely fast 

Get Microsoft BASIC Compiler or 
Microsoft COBOL-80 and get serious 
with your Model tl. After all, who's 
running this show? 

Prices for COBOL-80 and BASIC Compiler 
include the MACRCM30 Assembler and LINK-80 
Linking Loader and all documentation Docu- 
mentation purchased separately, $20. 
COBOL-80 $750. 

BASlCCompiter $395. 



For TRS-80 Model I software, 
contact Microsoft Consumer 
Products. _____ 




10800 NE 8th 
Suite 819 

Beilevue, WA 98004 
(206) 455-8080 
Telex 328945 

We set the standard. 



iff 



Programming Quickies 



A White-Noise 
Generator for 
the Apple II 



Listing 1: 6502 assembly language program for a continuous 
white-noise generator. 



John O'Flaherty, 3432 A Evergreen Ln, St Louis MO 63125 



Listing 1 is a simple machine-language routine to turn 
an Apple II into a white-noise generator. The program is 
a software machine that simulates the National Semicon- 
ductor MM5837 Digital Noise Generator (see figure 1). 

It uses 2 bytes of memory, hexadecimal locations 300 
and 301 (see listing 1) as sixteen of the shift-register 
stages, and the processor-status-register carry flag as the 
seventeenth. 

The rotate-left (ROL) instruction at hexadecimal loca- 
tion 303 shifts the bits of the low-order memory location 
(hexadecimal 300) left, moving bit 8 into the carry flag. 
The next ROL instruction, at location 306, shifts each bit 
of location 301 left, shifts the carry flag into bit of loca- 
tion 301, and shifts bit 8 into the carry flag. One seven- 
teen-bit shift cycle is now complete. 

At this point, if the carry flag, which is now the output 
bit of the seventeen-stage register, is equal to 0, the pro- 
gram jumps to location 30E; but if it is set to 1, the pro- 
gram toggles the speaker by the instruction at hexa- 
decimal location 30B. 

Now the accumulator is rotated right three times, 
bringing the carry flag (bit 17) into bit 6 of the 
accumulator, which is exclusive-ORed (at location 311) 
with bit 6 of location 301 (bit 14). Then the accumulator 
is shifted left three times to put the bit of interest back 
into the carry flag. Then control branches back to ad- 
dress 303 with the correct bit ready to be shifted into the 
front of the low-order memory byte by the ROL instruc- 
tion. 

The routine is entered at hexadecimal address 302. 
Reset must be pressed to stop the program. 

It is also possible to insert counting loops and a condi- 
tional subroutine return to create a time-limited burst of 
white noise: the program in listing 2 will produce a short 
"chiff" sound. 

With seventeen stages of shift register in a pseudo- 
random circuit, there are nearly 2 17 or 131,071 unique 
states. The cycle time of the loop averages 27 
microseconds, so the total cycle time before repetition 
will be 3.54 seconds (for the program of listing !).■ 





300 


XX 






(low-order 


\ 


301 


XX 






(high -order) 


302 


38 






SEC 




303 


2E 


00 


03 


ROL 


$300 


306 


2E 


01 


03 


ROL 


$301 


309 


90 


03 




BCC 


$30E 


30B 


AD 


30 


CO 


LDA 


$C030 


30E 


6A 






ROR 


ACC 


30F 


6A 






ROR 


ACC 


310 


6A 






ROR 


ACC 


311 


4D 


01 


03 


EOR 


$301 


314 


0A 






ASL 


ACC 


315 


0A 






ASL 


ACC 


316 


0A 






ASL 


ACC 


317 


AC 


03 


03 


JMP 


$303 




CLOCK 










BIT 1 


17- STAGE 






BIT 17 






SHIFT REGISTER 










"7/ 




BIT 14 








< 


7 













Figure 1: Logic diagram of the National Semiconductor 
MM5837 digital noise generator circuit. 



Listing 2: Subroutine to 


generate bursts of white noise. 


300 


XX 






(low -order) 


301 


XX 






(high-order) 


302 


A9 


00 




LDA 


#$00 


304 


A8 






TAY 




305 


38 






SEC 




306 


2E 


00 


03 


ROL 


$300 


309 


2E 


01 


03 


ROL 


$301 


30C 


90 


03 




BCC 


$311 


30E 


AD 


30 


CO 


LDA 


$C030 


311 


6A 






ROR 


ACC 


312 


6A 






ROR 


ACC 


313 


6A 






ROR 


ACC 


314 


4D 


01 


03 


EOR 


$301 


317 


0A 






ASL 


ACC 


318 


0A 






ASL 


ACC 


319 


0A 






ASL 


ACC 


31A 


88 






DEY 




31B 


98 






TYA 




31C 


DO 


01 




BNE 


$31F 


31E 


60 






RTS 




31F 


4C 


06 


03 


JMP 


$306 



68 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 34 on inquiry card. 



'car* 



-The 
Sour 




for 6800/6809 

Software 



Technical Systems Consultants, Inc, is The Source for your 
6800/6809 systems software needs. From FLEX™, the standard 
disk operating system of the 680X family, to Sort/Merge, your 
systems requirements can be filled with the highest quality 
software in the industry. Nowhere else can you find such variety 
from a single source. Here are some of the most popular: 

Program Name 6800 6809 


FLEX for SWTPc 


$90 


$90 


FLEX for SSB 


90 


90 


Extended BASIC 


100 


100 


Extended BASIC Precompiler 


50 


50 


BASIC 


65 


65 


BASIC Precompiler 


40 


40 


FLEX Sort/Merge 


75 


75 


Text Editing System 


40 


35 


Assembler 


40 


40 


Text Processing System 


60 


60 


Debug Package 


55 


75 


FLEX Utilities 


100 


60 



These packages are available on either 8" or 5" soft-sectored 
FLEX diskettes (5" 6800 is FLEX 2.0). Price includes user's 
manual and object code diskette. Certain programs are available 
on cassette. Contact Technical Systems Consultants for pricing. 
All orders should include 3 percent for postage and handling 
(8 percent on foreign orders). Master Charge and Visa 
are welcome. 

JU FLEX is a trademark of Technical Systems Consultants, Inc. 




technical /y/tem/ 
con/ultantr, inc. 

Box 2574, West Lafayette, IN 47906 
(317) 463-2502 



BW-2630 
Battery Tool 




BW-2630 $19.85* 

BT-30 $ 3.95* 

BT-2628 $ 7.95* 



BW-2630 BATTERY TOOL 

The new BW-&630 is a revolutionary battery 
powered wire-wrapping tool. The tool operates 
on 2 standard "C" size NiCad batteries (not 
included) and accepts either of two specially 
designed hits. Bit model BT-30 is for wrapping 
30 AWG wire onto .025" square pins ; BT-2628 
wraps 26-28 AWG wire. Both produce the 
>ref erred "modified" wrap. 

Designed for the serious amateur, BW-2630 
even includes both positive indexing and 
anti-overwrapping mechanisms — features 
usually found only in industrial tools costing 
five times as much. Pistol grip design and 
Jged ABS construction assure performance 
and durability. In stock at local electronic 
retailers or directly from 

OK Machine & Tool Corporation 

3455 Conner St., Bronx,N.Y. 10475 U.S.A. 
V Tel. (212) 994-6600 Telex 125091 > 



BYTEs Bugs 



Current Sinking 

I found the article by 
Mark Bernstein, entitled 
"Morse Code Trainer" 
(December 1979 BYTE, page 
247) very interesting. I did, 
however, find one disturb- 
ing item in the circuitry. 
Figure 3, on page 248, 
shows a 7404 inverter driv- 
ing a transistor-radio 
speaker through a 100-ohm 
resistor to ground. This 
arrangement requires that 
the inverter source current 
on the order of 40 mA. 
According to the National 
Semiconductor Corp TTL 
Databook, a 7404 inverter 
can source roughly 0.5 mA. 
Thus, the ground symbol in 
the circuit diagram should 
clearly read " + 5 V" (I 
assume that this was a 
layout error). However, the 
TTL Databook also specifies 
maximum sink current on 
the order of 20 mA per 
inverter. Therefore, the 
40 mA sink requirement for 
the circuit is marginal. The 
circuit probably works with 
no apparent adverse effects, 
but the inverter is being 
overstressed nonetheless. 
The oscillator duty cycle 
may be the saving grace. For 
a more reliable design, I sug- 
gest that the resistor value 
be increased to 300 ohms. 

J C Hassall 
H and H Enterprises 
Microcomputer Specialists 
1201 Highland Cr 
Blacksburg VA 24060 

We brought this question 
to the attention of our hard- 
ware expert, Steve Ciarcia. 
He gave us the following 
reply: "The circuit shown in 
the article does work in its 
present configuration. The 
0.5 mA specification is the 
maximum current that can 
be sourced by the 7404 
while maintaining a logical 1 
output (the minimum volt- 
age for a logical 1 is 3.5 V). 
Actually, the 7404 can put 
out a lot more current than 
that, but the voltage will 
drop below 3.5 V. This is no 
problem when you are using 



the device as a linear 
amplifier to drive a loud- 
speaker (a somewhat uncon- 
ventional application for the 
7404). To prevent undue 
stress on the 7404, it is pro- 
bably best to tie the speaker 
to +5 V rather than to 
ground, and to use a 470 
ohm resistor instead of 
100 ohm." 



Ultrasonic Substitution 

The schematic diagram of 
figure 4 in the January Ciar- 
cia's Circuit Cellar ("Com- 
puterize a Home," by Steve 
Ciarcia, January 1980 BYTE, 
page 28) specifies that a 
Model TR-89 40 kHz 
ultrasonic transducer from 
Massa Products Corporation 
be used. Several readers 
have made inquiries con- 
cerning how to get this 
component. 

Steve Ciarcia suggests that 
an equivalent transducer 
from Panasonic be substi- 
tuted for the Massa Products 
unit. The Panasonic 
transducer may be ordered 
from: The MicroMint Inc, 
917 Midway, Woodmere NY 
11598, telephone (516) 
374-6793. 

The MicroMint stock 
number for the device is 
MM1002; the cost is $6 
postpaid. 

A Dotty Ratio 

An alert reader in Morro 
Bay, California, discovered 
an error in the article 
'Morse Code Trainer" by 
Mark Bernstein, which 
appeared in the December 
1979 BYTE (page 247). In 
listing 1, on page 248, the 
values given for constants 
that determine the relative 
lengths of dots and dashes 
cause the ratio of lengths to 
be incorrect. The values 
given in the article (dot = 
1000, dash = 2000) give a 1 
to 2 ratio. The correct ratio 
is 1 to 3. One set of values 
that could be used for the 
correct ratio is dot = 1000 
and dash = 3000. ■ 



66 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 32 on inquiry card. 



5010 PLOT3:PLOT35:PLOT10 

5020 PRINT" $$$$$$$ " 

5030 FOR I = 12 TO 36 STEP 2 

5040 PLOT03:PLOT27:PLOT I 

5050 PLOT6:PLOT34 

5060 FOR K = 1 TO 25:PLOT32:NEXT K 

5070 NEXT I 

5073 REM HANDLE 

5075 PLOT6:PLOT120 

5080 FOR I = 16 TO 26 STEP 2 

5090 PLOT3:PLOT54:PLOT I 

6000 PLOT32 

6010 NEXT I 

6015 REM CONNECT HANDLE TO BODY 

6020 PLOT15:PLOT3:PLOT52:PLOT27 

6030 PLOT32:PLOT32 

6035 REM ORNAMENTS 

6038 PLOT6:PLOT16 

6040 PLOT3:PLOT33:PLOTl 1 

6050 PLOT32:PLOT32 

6060 PLOT3:PLOT44:PLOTl 1 

6070 PLOT32:PLOT32 

6075 REM PAYOFF SLOT 

6080 PLOT6:PLOT7 

6090 FOR I =30 TO 32 

7000 PLOT3:PLOT34:PLOT I 

7010 FORJ=lTOH 

7020 PLOT32:NEXT J 

7030 NEXT I 

7032 REM IN SLOT 

7034 PLOT3:PLOT49:PLOT14:PLOT32 

7035 PLOT10:PLOT26:PLOT32 

7036 PLOT10:PLOT26:PLOT32 
7038 REM PRINT 

7040 PLOT3:PLOT34:PLOT26:PLOT6 

7050 PLOT3:PRINT n INTECOLOR" 

7060 PLOT3:PLOT36:PLOT28:PLOT6 

7070 PLOT3:PRINT u CASINO" 

7072 PLOT3:PLOT34:PLOT14 

7073 PLOT6:PLOT37 

7074 PLOT14:PRINT "BIG BERTHA" 
7080 REM WINDOWS 

7090 PLOT15:PLOT3:PLOT28:PLOT18 

8000 PLOT6:PLOT56 

8005 PRINT" 

8007 PLOT3:PLOT28:PLOT19 

8010 PRINT "LIBERTY LIBERTY LIBERTY" 

8015 PLOT14 

8020 PLOT6:PLOT16 

8030 PLOT3:PLOT35:PLOT18:PLOT32 

8040 PLOT3:PLOT43:PLOT18:PLOT32 

8050 PLOT3:PLOT29:PLOT42 

8060 PLOT14:PLOT6:PLOT7 

8070 PRINTYOUR BALANCE IS $";S 

8075 PLOT3:PLOT80:PLOT0 

8080 RETURN 

9000 REM PULL THE HANDLE 

9005 PLOT14:PLOT6:PLOT7 

9010 FOR I = 16 TO 24 STEP 2 

9020 PLOT3:PLOT54:PLOT I 

9030 FOR J = 1 TO 20:NEXT J 

9040 PLOT32:NEXT I 

9042 REM CLEAR THE COIN SLOT 

9043 PLOT 15 

9044 PLOT3:PLOT49:PLOT14:PLOT32 
9046 PLOT10:PLOT26:PLOT32 

9048 PLOT10:PLOT26:PLOT32 

9050 PLOT 1 4 

9055 PLOT6:PLOT120 

9060 FOR 1 = 24 TO 16 STEP-2 

9070 PLOT3:PLOT54:PLOT I 

9080 FOR J = 1 TO 20:NEXT J 

9090 PLOT32 

9095 NEXT I 

9098 PLOT6:PLOT57 

9099 PLOT 15 
10000 FOR 1 = 1 TO 5 
10010 FORJ=lT0 6 

10020 PLOT3:PLOT28:PLOT19 

10022 IF I> 3 THEN 10045 

10024 PLOT14:PRINT 

10026 PLOT3:PLOT28:PLOT19:PLOT15 

10028 IF I> 3 THEN 10045 

10030 IF I< 3 THEN PRINT T$(J) 

10035 IF 1 = 3 THEN PRINT T$(T(1)) 

10045 PLOT3:PLOT36:PLOT19 



10046 IF I> 4 THEN 10066 

10047 PLOT14:PRINT u 

10048 PLOT3:PLOT36:PLOT19:PLOT15 

10049 IFI>4THEN 10066 

1 0050 IF I < 4 THEN PRINT T$( J) 
10055 IF I = 4 THEN PRINT T$(T(2)) 

10066 PLOT3:PLOT44:PLOT19 

10067 PLOT14:PRINT" 

10068 PLOT3:PLOT44:PLOT19:PLOT15 
10070 IF I < 5 THEN PRINT T$(J) 
10075 IF I = 5 THEN PRINT T$(T(3)) 
10080 NEXT J 

10090 NEXT I 

10100 PLOT15:PLOT6:PLOT7 

10110 RETURN 

10120 REM OUT OF MONEY 

10125 PLOT12:PLOT14:PLOT6:PLOTl 

10130 PRINT:PRINT:PRINT:PRINT "YOU HAVE RUN OUT OF MONEY MY FRIEND" 

10140 PRINT:PRINT "THE GAME IS OVER. . .BETTER LUCK NEXT TIME" 

10150 PRINT:PRINT "DID YOU HAVE A GOOD TIME"; :INPUT A$ 

10160 RETURN ■ 



64KB RAM MEMORIES 

LSI-11 - $750.00 • SBC 80/10 - $750.00 
S-100 - $750.00 • 6800 - $750.00 • 6800-2 - $995.00 



ill HI 111 

p|lilii|i 

iiifiiifi 



Cl-6800-2 64K x 9 



m 



CI-S100 64Kx8 



~lltl|l|| 

i in i iii 
■ iiilui 
lilllili 



IB 



CI-1103 32K x 16 






5H* Ml 

^^iMI'™I{JJjtl!Uililllil!!!iJji^ 

CI-6800 64K x 8 




CI-8080 64Kx8 



Cl-6800-2 — 16KB to 64KB. Plugs 
directly into Motorola's EXORciser I or 
II. Hidden refresh up to 1.5 Mhz. Cycle 
stealing at 2 Mhz. Addressable in 4K 
increments with respect to VXA or 
VUA. Optional on Board Parity. 64K x 9 
$995.00. 

CI-S100 — 1 6KB to 64KB. Transparent 
hidden refresh. No wait states at 4 Mhz. 
Compatible with Alpha Micro and all 
Major 8080, 8085 and Z80 Based S100 
Systems. Expandable to 512 K bytes 
thru Bank Selecting. 64K x 8 $750.00. 

CI-1103 — 16KB to 64KB on a single 
dual height board. On board hidden 
refresh. Plugs directly into LSI 11/2, 
H11 or LSI 11/23. Addressable in 2K 
word increments up to 256 K Bytes. 8K 
x 16 $390.00. 32K x 16 $750.00. 

CI-6800 — 16KB to 64KB on a single 
board. On board hidden refresh. Plugs 
directly into EXORciser I and compati- 
ble with Rockwell's System 65. 
Addressable in 4K increments up to 
64K. 16K x 8 $390.00. 64K x 8 $750.00. 

CI-8080 — 16KB to 64KB on a single 
board. Plugs directly into MDS 800 and 
SBC 80/10. Addressable in 4K 
increments up to 64K. 16 KB $390.00. 
64K $750.00. 



Test and burned-in. Full year warranty. 

n Chrislin Industries, Inc. 

M / Computer Products Division 

31352 Via Colinas • Westlake Village, CA 91361 • 213-991-2254 



€ 



Circle 31 on inquiry card. 



April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 65 



Listing 1 continued: 

4480 PLOT3:PLOT37:PLOT32 

4490 PRINT" 

4495 RETURN 

4500 REM BAD BET PLACED 

45 1 PLOT3:PLOT56 :PLOT 1 5 

4520 PLOT6:PLOT65:PLOT14 

4530 PRINT "BAD BET 

4535 PLOT3:PLOT80:PLOT0 

4540 FOR I = 1 TO 500:NEXT I 

4550 PLOT15:PLOT6:PLOT7 

4560 REM CLEAR SLOT 

4570 PLOT3:PLOT49;PLOT14:PLOT32 

4580 PLOT10:PLOT26:PLOT32 

4590 PLOT 1 : PLOT26 : PLOT32 

4600 RETURN 

4700 REM JACKPOT 

4720 PLOT14:PLOT3:PLOT36:PLOT10 

4730 PLOT6:PLOT79 

4740 PRINT "JACKPOT" 

4742 PLOT3:PLOT34:PLOT14 

4744 PRINT "BIG BERTHA" 

4750 PLOT3:PLOT80:PLOT0 

4765 FOR 1 = 1 TO 25:OUT7,64 

4766 FOR J = 1 TO 20:OUT7,0:NEXTJ:NEXTI 
4768 PLOT3:PLOT36:PLOT10 

4770 PLOT6:PLOT34:PRINT"$$$$$$$" 

4772 PLOT3:PLOT34:PLOT14:PLOT6:PLOT37 

4774 PRINT "BIG BERTHA" 

4780 PLOT15:PLOT6:PLOT7 

4790 RETURN 

4800 REM WANTS TO QUIT 

4810 PLOT12:PLOT6:PLOT7:PLOT14 

4820 PRINT:PRINT:PRINT;PRINT "SO. . .YOU WANT TO QUIT " 

4830 PRINT:PRINT:PRINT "STOP OVER AT THE ROULETTE TABLE AND TRY YOUR LUCK" 

4840 PRINT:PRINT "SEE YOU AROUND THE SLOTS AGAIN SOMETIME" 

4850 FOR 1= 1 TO 2500:NEXT I 

4860 PLOT15:PLOT6:PLOT7 

4870 END 

4900 REM BREAKS THE BANK 

4910 PLOT12:PLOT6:PLOT8:PLOT12 

4920 FOR I = 1 TO 100:NEXT I 

4930 PLOT6:PLOT7:PLOT12:PLOT14:PLOT6:PLOT15 

4940 PRINT:PRINT:PRINT:PRINT:PRINT "YOU ( BROKE THE BANK' 

4950 PRINT:PRINT "YOUR WINNINGS AMOUNT TO $";S 

4960 PRINT:PRINT "THE GAME IS OVER — YOU HAVE WON TOO MUCH AND" 

4970 PRINT :PRINT "YOU ARE UNDER INVESTIGATION BY THE TGB'" 

4980 PRINT :PRINT "(INTECOLOR GAMBLING BUREAU)" 

4985 FOR I = 1 TO 4000:NEXT I 

4990 PLOT15:PLOT6:PLOT7 

4995 RETURN 

4999 REM DRAW MACHINE 

5000 PLOT12:PLOT14 
5005 PLOT6:PLOT34 



■ Thet 



DO YOU SEE EYE TO EYE WITH YOUR APPLE? 



DS-65 Digiseetor® opens up a whole new world for your Apple II. Your computer can now be a part of the action, taking pictures to amuse your 
friends, watching your house while you're away, taking computer portraits ... the applications abound! The DS-65 is a random access video digitizer. 
It converts a TV camera's output into digital information that your computer can process. The DS-65 features: 

• High resolution: 256 X 256 picture element scan 
• Precision: 64 levels of grey scale 

• Versatility: Accepts either interlaced (NTSC) or industrial video input 
• Economy: A professional tool priced for the hobbyist 

The DS-65 is an intelligent peripheral card with on-board software in 2708 EPROM. 
Check these software features: 

• Full screen scans directly to Apple Hi-Res screen 

• Easy random access digitizing by Basic programs 

• Line-scan digitizing for reading charts or tracking objects 

• Utility functions for clearing and copying the Hi-Res screen 

Let your Apple see the world! 

DS-65 Price: $349.95 

Advanced Video FSII Camera Price $299.00 

SPECIAL COMBINATION PRICE: $599.00 



your I 



1 W©\M££ 




APPLE SELF-PORTRAIT 

P.O. BOX 1 11 DEL MAR, CA 9201 4 71 4-942-2400 



J 



64 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 30 on inquiry card. 



580 

590 

600 

610 

620 

630 

640 

650 

660 

670 

680 

690 

700 

710 

720 

730 

740 

750 

760 

770 

780 

790 

800 

810 

820 

830 

840 

850 

860 

870 

880 

890 

910 

950 

960 

970 

980 

985 

990 

1000 

1010 

1020 

1030 

1040 

4000 

4010 

4020 

4030 

4035 

4040 

4050 

4060 

4070 

4080 

4090 

4100 

4105 

4110 

4120 

4130 

4140 

4150 

4160 

4200 

4210 

4220 

4225 

4230 

4232 

4234 

4^0 

4250 

4260 

4270 

4280 

4290 

4300 

4400 

4410 

4420 

4430 

4440 

4450 

4460 

4470 



GOTO 510 

REM 

FOR 1 = 1 TO 3 

R = RND(R1) 

FORJ=l TO 6 

T(I) = J 

IFR<P(U)THEN660 

NEXT J 

NEXT I 

GOSUB 9000 

D=100*T(1) + 10*T(2) + T(3) 

FOR 1 = 1 TO 15 

IFD = D(1,I)THEN750 

NEXT I 

REM 

D = 

GOTO 820 

IFD(2,I)<0THEN780 

D = Z*D(2,I) 



:REM FIND THE 3 RESULTS 

:REM AND LOOK ACROSS THE PROB. MATRIX 

:REM REMEMBERING THE CURRENT COLUMN 

:REM IS IT THIS ONE? 

:REM NO. .KEEP LOOKING 

:REM T(I) IS THE ITH RESULT 

:REM DISPLAY THE RESULTS 

:REM CODE RESULT AS INTEGER 

:REM IF INTEGER THEN WIN 
:REM ELSE KEEP LOOKING 

:REM SET WINNINGS TO ZERO 

:REM IS IT A JACKPOT 

:REM NO-CALCULATE PAYOFF 



:REM DISPLAY JACKPOT 

:REM DROP WINNINGS 

:REM CALCULATE NEW BALANCE 

:REM IS USER BROKE? 

:REM UPDATE BALANCE 
:REM GET NEW BET 

:REM DISPLAY BROKE 
:REM ASK ABOUT ANOTHER GAME 
:REM BROKE THE BANK 



";:INPUTA$ 



GOTO 810 :REM AND DISPLAY 

D = INT(200 + 400* RND(R 1 )) :REM 'JACKPOT' 

GOSUB 4700 

REM 

GOSUB 4200 

S = S + D-Z 

IFS<=0THEN87O 

IF S>= 1000 THEN 910 

GOSUB 4400 

GOTO 510 

REM HERE IF USER BROKE 

GOSUB 10120 

GOTO 950 

GOSUB 4900 

REM ANOTHER GAME? 

PLOT 12 

PRINT:PRINT "HOW ABOUT ANOTHER GO? (Y OR N) ( 

IFA$ = "Y"THEN480 

PLOT14:PLOT6:PLOT2 

PRINTrPRINT "WELL I HOPE YOU HAD A BIT OF THRILL AND WE HOPE" 

PRINT "TO SEE YOU BACK AT THE l COMPUCOLOR CASINO' REAL SOON" 

PRINT;PRINT "SEE WHEN YOU HAVE MORE MONEY TO DONATE" 

FOR I = 1 TO 2500:NEXT I 

PLOT15:PLOT6:PLOT7:PLOT12 

END 

REM PLACE THE BET 

PLOT3:PLOT56:PLOT15 

PLOT6:PLOT79:PLOT14 

PRINT "PLACE BET" 

PLOT3:PLOT80:PLOT0 

FOR 1=1 TO 500 

NEXT I 

PLOT3:PLOT56:PLOT15 

PLOT6:PLOT2 

PRINT " 

REM PUT INPUT IN SLOT 

PLOT15:PLOT6:PLOT2 

PLOT3:PLOT49:PLOT14 

PLOT155:PLOT10 

INPUT "";Z 

PLOT155:PLOTll 

PLOT155:PLOT24 

PLOT6:PLOT7 

RETURN 

REM DROP WINNINGS 

PLOT15:PLOT3:PLOT37:PLOT30 

PLOT6:PLOT7 

REM 

PRINT "WINNER" 

FOR 1 = 1 T0 25:OUT7,64 

FOR J = 1 TO 15:OUT7,0:NEXT J:NEXT I 

PLOT3:PT37:PLOT32 

PLOT6:PLOT2 

PRINT "$ ";D 

PLOT3:PLOT80:PLOT0 

PLOT6:PLOT7 

FOR 1=1 TO 1000:NEXTI 

RETURN 

REM SHOW ACCUM AND CLEAR DROP 

PLOT14:PLOT3:PLOT46:PLOT42 

PLOT6:PLOT2 

PRINT S 

PLOT15:PLOT6:PLOT7 

REM CLEAN OUT DROP 

PLOT3:PLOT37:PLOT30 

PBINT 



Listing 1 continued on page 64 




the 

microcomputer 

peopl 



h ® 



computer mart 
of n»w J*rs#y 



f Computer Mart of New Jersey 1 

501 Route 27 

Iseiln, N.J. 06600 

(201)263-0600 

HOURS. 

Openot 10 am, 

Tuesday through Saturday 



Circle 29 on inquiry card. 



THE VITAL 
INGREDIENT: 

EXPERTISE 



Before you buy your new 
microcomputer, chances ore 
you hove a lot of questions. 
Important questions that 
could mean the difference 
between o working system 
and o wasted system. The 
vital Ingredient Is expertise. 
The microcomputer people at 
Computer Mart are expert at 
answering your questions 
and helping you put together 
the best system for your 
application. Whether it's for 
business, the home, or the 
laboratory; come see the 
experts ot Computer Mart 
of New Jersey. We have the 
vital ingredient. 



April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 63 



Listing 1: BASIC listing of the slot machine program. 

100 REM THE GAME OF SLOT MACHINE RUNS IN 8K AND WAS 

110 REM CONVERTED FROM DARTMOUTH BASIC FOR THE ISC8001 BY: 

120 REM W.C. HOFFER-2721 N. WANDA-SIMI VALLEY, CA-93065 

122 PLOT6:PLOT33:PLOT12:PLOT27:PLOTll:PLOT14:PLOT3:PLOT17:PLOT6 

124 PLOT6:PLOT25 

126 PRINT "INTECOLOR PRESENTS THE ONE ARMED BANDIT" 

135 PLOT3:PLOT80:PLOT0 

140 FOR I = 1 TO 1000:NEXT I 

150 PLOT6:PLOT2:PLOT12 

200 DIM P(3,6),T$(6),D(2,15) 

205 DIM T(3) 

210 Rl=4 

220 PRINT 

240 FOR 1 = 1 TO 3 

242 FOR 1 = 1 TO 6 

244 READ P(I,J) 

246 NEXT J 

248 NEXT I 

249 REM PROBABILITY MATRIX (MODIFIED FOR BETTER PAYOFFS & IACKPOTS) 

250 DATA 0,. 4,. 65,. 83,. 9,1 
260 DATA .1,. 45,. 65,. 80,. 87,1 
270 DATA .3,. 45,. 5,. 7,. 9,1 
280 FOR 1 = 1 TO 6 

282 READ T$(I) 

284 NEXT I 

285 DATA "t]tS! [BtYTYTPTTtUT \ tStWtVIYtStRIQtWtVtUtT 
IQtRTTtUtVtWtYtStRtQtPtVtUTTt \ tStRTQtPTWTVtUtYfSfRtW 
TQTT!Y!Y!CCt]fW" 

286 REM 

287 DATA "t JtQt [Bt YtYtTtUt \ tWtVtYIStRTQtWtVTUtT 
tQtRtTTUiVTWtYtStRtQtPtVIUTTt \ TStRfQtPtWtVtUTYtSTR 
TQtYtYtCCt]IW" 

288 REM 

290 DATA n t]tRt[BtYtYtT!UT \ tWtVTYTStRtQfWtVtUTT 
tQTRTTtUtVTWtYTRTQtPtUTTt \ tStRTQTWtV 
tYtYTCCtltW" 

293 REM 

294 DATA "t]IUT[B tUtTt \ tWTVtYTStRtQtWtVtUtT 
IQtRTTtUTVTWTYtStRtQTPtVtUtTt \ tStRtQtPtWTVIUtYtStR 
tQ!Y1YtCCT]TW" 

295 REM 

296 DATA u r]tVt[BtYtStWtVt \ tQTUtPfTtYTPTTtQtUtVtW 
tQtRtStWtVtUtT!YtSTRtQtPtTtUTVtW!\tStRTQfPtWtVtUtT!VtWtYtPTQTTtU 
tWtRtYtYfCCT]fW" 

297 REM LIBERTY IN BLACK 

298 DATA " T ] 1 1 PLIBERT Y t ] t W" 
300 FOR 1 = 1 TO 2 

302 F0RJ=1T0 15 

306 READ D(I,J) 

308 NEXT LNEXT I 

310 DATA 221 ,222,223,224,225,226,333,335,336,444,445,446,555,556,666 

320 DATA 2,-1,2,2,4,6,-1,16,18,-1,20,22,-1,24,-1 

330 INPUT "WOULD YOU LIKE INSTRUCTIONS? (Y OR N) ";A$ 

340 PRINT 

350 IFA$ = "N"THEN470 

360 PLOT14:PLOT6:PLOT2 

370 PRINT "RULES OF PLAY:" 

380 PRINT "ON EACH PLAY YOU CAN BET ANY NUMBER OF 'SILVER DOLLARS'" 

390 PRINT "BETWEEN $1 AND YOUR BALANCE OR $999 WHICHEVER IS SMALLER." 

400 PRINT "IUST TYPE IN THE NUMBER WHEN THE 'PLACE BET* SIGN STOPS BLINKING. 

405 PRINT "(FULL DOLLAR BETS ONLY PLEASE)" 

410 PRINT 

420 PRINT "YOU TULL DOWN THE HANDLE' BY DEPRESSING THE RETURN KEY." 

430 PRINT 

440 PRINT "THE GAME IS OVER WHEN YOUR BALANCE REACHES ZERO OR" 

450 PRINT "YOU BREAK THE BANK. IF YOU DECIDE TO QUIT EARLY THEN, BET 0." 

452 PRINT "HERE IS WHAT THE SYMBOLS LOOK LIKE:" 

453 PRINT: PLOT 15 

454 PRINT "t]tSLEMONt]fW ";T$(1);" t]TQCHERRY t]tW";T$(2) 

455 PRINT 

456 PRINT " T]fRORANGE(UNRIPE) t]tW";T$(3);"t]fUPLUM T]tW";T$(4) 

457 PRINT 

458 PRINT " ?]TVBELL l]tW";T$(5);" LIBERTY ";"t]tPt t tWLIBERTYt]tWf \ tP" 

459 PRINT:PRINT:PRINT:PLOT14 

470 PRINT "HIT THE SPACE BAR WHEN YOU ARE READY TO BEGIN" 

475 Rl =RND(1):IF INP(1)< >96 THEN 475 

480 S = 200 :REM GIVE A STARTING BALANCE < 

490 GOSUB 5000 

510 GOSUB 4000 :REM ASK FOR THE BET 

520 Z = INT(Z) :REM FULL DOLLARS ONLY 

530 IF Z = THEN GOSUB 4800 :REM WANTS TO QUIT NOW 

540 IF Z<0 THEN 560 

550 IF Z< S + 1 THEN 590 :REM TRYING TO BET MORE THAN BALANCE 

560 GOSUB 4500 :REM ERROR ROUTINE 



62 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 




6809 PROCESSING POWER! 

The Percom SBC/9 . Only $199.95. 



' compatible w th (he SS- 
I requiring no modificat 
board, memory c(r 

J SBC/9™ is also a coRtpiete, single- 

1 board control computer with its own 

\ ROM operating "Systetn- _ BA.M, 

peripheral ports and a full-range baud 

: generator. 



lake the SBC/9 the heart of your computer and put to work 
the most outstanding microprocessor available/ the 6809. 



the Mighty 6809 

Featuring more addressing modes 
than any other eight-bit processor, 
position-independent coding/special 
16-bit instructions, efficient argu- 
ment-passing calls, autoincrement/ 
autpdecrement and more, if s no won- 
der the 6809 has been called the "pro- 
grammers dream machine/' 

Moreover, with the 6809 you get a 
microprocessor whose programs typ- 
ically use only one-half to two-thirds as 
much RAM space as required for 6800 
systems, and run faster besides. 

And to complement the extraordi- 
nary 6809, the Percom design team 
has developed PSYMON™, an extraor- 
dinary 6809 operating system for the 
SBC/9" 
PSYMOIT— Percom SYstem MONitor 

Although PSYMON™ includes a full 
complement of operating system 
commands and 15 externally callable 

"trademark of Percom Data Company, Inc. 



utilities, what really sets PSYMONT 
apart is its easy hardware adaptability 
and command extensibility; 

For hardware interfacing, you 
merely use simple, specific device 
driver routines that reference a table of 
parameters called a Device Control 
Block (DCB). Using this technique, in- 
terfacing routines are independent of 
the operating system. 

The basic PS YMGNT command 
repertoire may be readily enhanced or 
modified. When PSYMON* first re- 
ceives system control, it initializes its 
RAM area, configures its console and 
then looks ahead' for an optional sec- 
ond ROM which you install in a socket 
provided on the SBC/9" card. This 
ROM contains your own routines that 
may alter PSYMONP pointers and 
either subtly or radically modify the 
PSYMON™ command set. If a second 
ROM is not installed, control returns 
immediately to PSYMON™ 



Provision for multi-address, 8-bit bidirec- 
tional parallel I/O data lines for interfac- 
ing to devises such as an encoded 
keyboard. 

A serial interface Reader Control output 
for a cassette, tape punch/reader or simi- 
lar device. 

An intelligent data bus: multi-level data 
bus decoding that allows multiprocess- 
ing and bus multiplexing of other bus 
masters. 

Extended address line capability -— ac- 
commodating up to 16 megabytes of 
memory — that does not disable the on- 
board baud rate clock or require addi- 
tional hardware In I/O slots. 
On-board devices which are fully de- 
coded so that off-card devices may use 
adjoining memory space. 
Fully buffered address, control and data 
lines. 






The SBC/9™ complete with PS YMON™ in 
ROM, 1K of RAM and a comprehensive 
users manuarcosts just $199.95. 




PERCOM DATA COMPANY. INC. 

211 N K1RBY GARUVND. TEXAS 75042 

(214)272-3421 

Percom 'peripherals for personal computing' 



To place an order or request additional literature 
call toll-free 1-800-527-1592. For technical infor- 
mation call (21 4) 272-3421 . Orders may be paid by 
check, money order, COD or charged to a VISA or 
Master Charge account. Texas residents must add 

5% Sales tax. Circle 25 on inquiry card. 

PRICES AND SPECIFICATIONS SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE. 




Programming Quickies 



An Animated Slot 
Machine in Color 

W C Hoffer, Hughes Aircraft Co 

8433 Fallbrook, Bldg 265, Mail Sta P-35 

Canoga Park CA 91304 

Nearly everyone has some gambling desire in his 
chemistry. Many dollars have been spent in the pursuit of 
gambling happiness. If you are the owner of, or have ac- 
cess to an Intecolor or Compucolor microcomputer 
system, this program (see listing 1, pages 62 thru 65) may 
satisfy some of your gambling anxieties. 

The program was originally written in Dartmouth 
BASIC. I converted it and then added the color and 
animation. Since the hard copy listing cannot display the 
graphics or colors, which consist of a series of control 
codes, you will see the symbol t (up arrow) throughout 
the listing. This symbol stands for the control key on the 
keyboard. In each case, the t is followed by an American 
Standard Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) 
character. An example is t]tS, which means 'control-], 
control-S," and converts to "set foreground color to 



TERMINALS 



FROM TRANSNET 



PURCHASE FULL OWNERSHIP AND LEASE PLANS 

PURCHASE PER MONTH 
DESCRIPTION PRICE 12 MPS. 24 MPS. 36 MPS. 

LA36 DECwriter II $1,695 $162 $ 90 S 61 

LA34 DECwriter IV 1,295 124 69 47 

LA120 DECwriter III KSR . . . . 2,295 220 122 83 

VT100 CRT DECscope 1,895 182 101 68 

VT132 CRT DECscope 2,295 220 122 83 

DT80/1 DATAMEDIA CRT ... . 1,895 182 101 68 

TI745 Portable Terminal ... . 1,595 153 85 57 

TI765 Bubble Memory Terminal 2,795 268 149 101 

TI810 RO Printer 1,895 182 101 68 

TI820 KSR Printer 2,195 210 117 79 

TI825 KSR Printer 1,695 162 90 61 

ADM3A CRT Terminal 875 84 47 32 

QUME Letter Quality KSR . . . 3,195 306 170 115 

QUME Letter Quality RO .... 2,795 268 149 101 

HA2ELTINE 1410 CRT 875 84 47 32 

HAZELTINE 1500 CRT 1,195 115 64 43 

HAZELTINE 1552 CRT 1 ,295 124 69 47 

Dataproducts 2230 Printer . . 7,900 757 421 284 

DATAMATE Mini Floppy 1 ,750 168 93 63 

FULL OWNERSHIP AFTER 12 OR 24 MONTHS 
10% PURCHASE OPTION AFTER 36 MONTHS 

ACCESSORIES AND PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT 

ACOUSTIC COUPLERS • MODEMS • THERMAL PAPER 
RIBBONS • INTERFACE MODULES • FLOPPY DISK UNITS 
PROM PT DELIVERY • EFFICIENT SERVICE 

E 



yellow/' in Compucolor nomenclature. Occasionally you 
will see ft which again means "control t" or "set 
background color." Keep in mind that the t is also an 
ASCII character. The program has been generously laced 
with comment statements in an effort to inform you of 
the function performed by each section of code. 



TransNet Corpora tion 

1945 route 22, union, n.j. 07083 

201-688-7800 




Photo 1: A graphic representation of an animated slot machine 
on the Intecolor microcomputer system. 

Since the machine cannot display an orange color, the 
orange fruit in the slot machine is displayed as unripe 
green. My original version of this program, which has 
made its way into the user world, displayed only the 
words (PLUM, BELL, etc) in the windows. This version 
displays the graphic representation of each symbol. The 
gambler should request instructions when first using the 
program, and have the rules of play and the symbols 
displayed and explained. 

I am sure you will do quite well with this gambling 
endeavor since I have modified the original Las Vegas 
odds in favor of the player. 

About the Author 

Mr Hoffer began his data processing career in 1966, and has lectured 
on FORTRAN at the University of Arizona. Since 1976 he has been in- 
volved in an on-going evaluation of small systems. Mr Hoffer is 
presently employed at Hughes Aircraft Company as Manager of Com- 
puting and Data Processing for the Missile Systems Group, in Canoga 
Park, California. 



60 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 27 on inquiry card. 



Circle 28 on inquiry card. 



ROLL OVER, WINCHESTER 

;)in lot Dynabyte's inulti user, multi tasking, cartridge module hard di 

THE DB8/6 








/e're real proud of this 
one. It's got a cartridge 
module disc pack that al- 
lows you to copy your data 
in a few minutes, then store 
the pack. With one smart 
design, we've solved the 
disc back-up dilemma. You 
get main-frame con- 
venience with a Z-80 based 
microcomputer. 
The DB8/6 allows up to 16 
consoles to be connected 
and in use at one time. Each 
user can initiate and run 

numerous simultaneous tasks from their respective consoles. 
This is the top of the line in our family— completely compatible with our 
system, and all our software. Check out the Dynabyte DB8/6 for yourself, 
computer capability. 




THE FACTS: 

• 32 Megabytes of storage on each 
hard disc, field upgradable to 96, 
special order to 1200. 

• 8 switchable user memory banks 
of up to 48K plus 16K of system 
memory. 

• 512 byte sectors on the disc. 

• Compatible with all CP/M applica- 
tion programs and languages. 

• BASIC FORTRAN. COBOL, System 
Utilities and General Accounting 
Packages. 

• Full line of terminals and printers, 
including the DB130/1 pictured 
above, a superset of the VT132 
featuring 132 characters per line, 
proportional spacing, smooth scroll 
and more. 



5" floppy system, our 8" floppy 
It represents a whole new era in 



millflllSJTK -115 Independence Drive-Menlo Park, CA 94025-(415) 329-8021 



Listing 1 continued: 



FF6C 

FF6D 
FF6E 
FF6F 
FF70 
FF71 
FF75 
FF77 
FF79 
FF7B 
FF7D 
FF81 
FF86 
FF87 



FFFO 
FFFO 
FFF3 
FFF5 
FFF9 
FFFA 
FFFC 



52 

56 

57 

55 

06 

8926A700 

8CD1 

33C0 

8ED0 

8ED8 

8B26A700 

36890E0C00 

53 

C3 



B8 

8ED8 

BC7F0090 

EA 

94FD 

0000 



0055 


483F 


0057 


OD 


0058 


4F4B 


005A 


OD 


005B 


573F 


005D 


OD 


005E 


53 


005F 


OD 



1302 
1303 
1304 
1305 
1306 
1307 
1308 
1309 
1310 
1311 
1312 
1313 
1314 
1315 
1316 
1317 
1318 
1319 
1320 
1321 
1322 
1323 
1324 
1325 
1326 
1327 
1328 
1329 
1330 
1331 

1332 

1333 

1334 



PUSH 

PUSH 

PUSH 

PUSH 

PUSH 

MOV 

MOV 

XOR 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

MOV 

PUSH 

RET 

CODE ENDS 

CONST2 SEGMENT 

ORG 0FFF0H 

MOV 
MOV 
MOV 

DB 0EAH 

DW OFFSET INIT 

DW0 

CONST2 ENDS 



CONST SEGMENT 

HOW DB 'H?',CR 

OK DB 'OK',CR 

WHAT DB 'W?\CR 

SORRY DB 'S',CR 



DX 

SI 

DI 

BP 

ES 

STACKP,SP 

CX,SS 

AX,AX 

SS,AX 

DS,AX 

SP,STACKP 

SS:STACKS,CX 

BX 



AX,DGROUP 

DS,AX 

SP,OFFSET(STK) 



;AND SET STACK & DATA 
; SEGMENTS FOR USER 1. 



BOOTSTRAP 



Text continued from page 52 1 

interrupt switches the user-tasks on 
each interrupt cycle and determines 
when it is time to input and output 
information to the terminals. 

The timer-out routine is shown in 
flowchart form in figure 4. This 
interrupt-handling routine is the key 
to getting the other software to pro- 
cess multiple users. 

When called in response to an 
interrupt, it proceeds thusly. After 



Listing 2: A benchmark program in Tiny 
BASIC that can be used to compare execu- 
tion speeds of various computer systems. 
It is used here to test the efficiency of the 
multitasking system. 

100 REM 8088 TINY BASIC BENCHMARK 

110 REM SINGLE USER-300 BPS 

120 LETA = 

130 PRINTS! ART" 

140 FORB = 0TO25 

150 FORX = 0TO 1000 

160 LET A = A + 1 

170 NEXT X 

180 LETA = 

190 NEXTB 

200 PRINT v, DONE" 

210 END 



saving the registers of the current user 
so that the information stored in them 
will be available when execution 
resumes on this user's task, the 
routine reads a byte from each of the 
input ports. This is done first so that 
the inputs will always occur at the 
same time. 

Next, the data is output to the ter- 
minals. To accomplish this task, a 
task-status byte is reserved in 
memory for each user. This byte is a 1 
if the terminal is in an output mode, a 
2 if the user terminal is in an input 
mode, and a if the user's task is cur- 
rently executing without performing 
I/O operations. 

When the I/O has been taken care 
of, the processor determines which 
user-task is to be serviced next. The 
timer-out routine switches current 
user-tasks, proceeding to work on the 
task not most recently processed 
unless that user is still in an input or 
output mode. If that user is in an I/O 
mode, control will go back to the task 
that was being executed when the 
timer-out interrupt occurred. 

This switching process allows both 
users to "simultaneously" be served 



by the same processor. At least to 
human perception, the service 
appears to be simultaneous. The 
flowchart in figure 4 supplies a more 
detailed accounting of how the multi- 
tasking takes place. The assembly 
code that actually performs the 
multitasking may be seen in listing 1. 

In Conclusion 

The hardware discussed in this arti- 
cle is really a bare-bones system. 
Through the use of more memory 
(both programmable and read-only 
memory), as well as through the use 
of peripheral controllers and pro- 
grammable interrupt controllers, the 
whole system could be made to run 
very efficiently in a multi-user or 
multiprocessor environment. The 
possibilities of the new technological 
developments are impressive. 

In the future I will try to let you 
know about some of the other 16-bit 
microprocessors. I'd like to wait until 
I get some evaluation hardware, so 
that I can relay firsthand experience. 

Next Month: Parallel and serial 
I/O for the TRS-80. ■ 



58 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 26 on inquiry card. 



"Our inventory is our existence* 

Think we'd trust it to anything less 

than Scotch Brand Diskettes?" 




Don Stone, President, 
Mass* Auto Supply Company, 
Inc., Boston, Mass* 

Scotch Diskettes are the 
diskettes you can depend upon 
with the information your 
business depends upon. 

Each one is tested and 
certified error-free before it 
leaves our factory. Because we 
know nothing less than 
perfection is acceptable for 
your vital business data. 

Scotch Diskettes are 
available in regular or mini 
sizes, compatible with almost 
any system. 

To find out where you 
can purchase Scotch Diskettes, 
call toll free: 800-3284300. 
(In Minnesota, call collect: 612- 
736-9625.) Ask for the Data 
Recording Products Division. In 
Canada, write 3M Canada Inc., 
London, Ontario, N6A 4T1. 



If it's worth remembering, 

it's worth Scotch 

Data Recording Products, 




cfete 




Circle 25 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 57 



Listing 1 continued: 
FEB2 CF 



FEB3 
FEB6 
FEBA 
FEBD 

FEBF 
FECI 
FEC2 
FEC4 

FEC7 

FEC8 

FECC 

FECE 

FED1 

FED3 

FED7 
FEDC 
FEDE 
FEE4 

FEE7 

FEEB 
FEEE 
FEEF 
FEF3 
FEF4 
FEF8 
FEFA 
FEFC 
FEFE 
FF02 
FF03 
FF04 
FF06 
FF09 
FFOB 

FFOC 
FFOE 
FFIO 
FF16 
FFI8 
FF1B 
FF1E 
FF20 
FF23 
FF25 
FF27 
FF2A 
FF2E 
FF33 
FF35 
FF3B 
FF3E 
FF40 
FF42 
FF48 
FF4A 
FF50 

FF53 
FF55 
FF57 
FF59 
FF5F 
FF61 
FF65 
FF66 
FF67 
FF6B 



1235 



IRET 



A1ABOO 


R 


1236 


OUTWORD: MOV 


AX,WORDDOT 


8A1EAE00 


R 


1237 


MOV 


BL,STATUS 


80CBFE 




1238 


OR 


BL,0FEH 


F6D3 




1239 


NOT 


BL 


0AC3 




1240 


OR 


AL,BL 


EE 




1241 


OUT 


DX,AL 


D1F8 




1242 


SAR 


AX,1 


A3AB00 


R 


1243 


MOV 


WORDDOT,AX 


C3 




1244 


RET 




8A1EAE00 


R 


1245 


INBYTE: MOV 


BL,STATUS 


8AFB 




1246 


MOV 


BH,BL 


80E301 




1247 


AND 


BL,01H 


7431 




1248 


JZ 


CKIN 


FE06AA00 


R 


1249 


INC 


OUTCYC 


803EAA000A 


R 


1250 


CMP 


OUTCYC10 


7515 




1251 


JNE 


BRET 


C606AE000090 


R 


1252 


MOV 


STATUS,00H 


BB44FE 


R 


1253 


MOV 


BX,OFFSET 
(CGROUP:CORT) 


8926A700 


R 


1254 


RSST: MOV 


STACKP,SP 


83C414 




1255 


ADD 


SP,20 


53 




1256 


PUSH 


BX 


8B26A700 


R 


1257 


MOV 


SP,STACKP 


59 




1258 


BRET: POP 


cx 


8926A700 


R 


1259 


MOV 


STACKP,SP 


33C0 




1260 


XOR 


AX,AX 


8ED0 




1261 


MOV 


SS,AX 


8ED8 




1262 


MOV 


DS,AX 


8B26A700 


R 


1263 


MOV 


SP,STACKP 


51 




1264 


PUSH 


CX 


C3 




1265 


RET 




8ADF 




1266 


CKIN: MOV 


BL,BH 


80E302 




1267 


AND 


BL,02H 


74E8 




1268 


JZ 


BRET 


EC 




1269 


IN 


AL,DX 


3AC1 




1270 


CMP 


AL,CL 


7408 




1271 


JZ 


BITGD 


800EAE008090 


R 


1272 


OR 


STATUS,80H 


EBDB 




1273 


JMP 


BRET 


80E180 




1274 


BITGD: AND 


CL,80H 


80E704 




1275 


AND 


BH,04H 


7435 




1276 


JZ 


WAITST 


AOADOO 


R 


1277 


MOV 


AL,BYTEIN 


D0E8 




1278 


SHR 


AL,1 


0AC1 




1279 


OR 


AL,CL 


A2AD00 


R 


1280 


MOV 


BYTEIN,AL 


FE06A900 


R 


1281 


INC 


INCYCL 


803EA90008 


R 


1282 


CMP 


INCYCL,8 


75BE 




1283 


JNE 


BRET 


C606A9000090 


R 


1284 


MOV 


INCYCL, 


AOAEOO 


R 


1285 


MOV 


AL,STATUS 


2480 




1286 


AND 


AL,80H 


7408 




1287 


JZ 


DELFI 


C606AE000290 


R 


1288 


MOV 


STATUS, 2 


EBA9 




1289 


JMP 


BRET 


C606AE000090 


R 


1290 


DELFI: MOV 


STATUS,0 


BB2DFE 


R 


1291 


MOV 


BX,OFFSET 
(CGROUP:CIRT) 


EB92 




1292 


JMP 


RSST 


0AC9 




1293 


WAITST: OR 


CL,CL 


759A 




1294 


JNZ 


BRET 


C606AE000690 


R 


1295 


MOV 


STATUS,06H 


EB92 




1296 


JMP 


BRET 


891E0000 


R 


1297 


SVREG: MOV 


BL1,BX 


5B 




1298 


POP 


BX 


50 




1299 


PUSH 


AX 


FF360000 


R 


1300 


PUSH 


BL1 


51 




1301 


PUSH 


CX 



;RETURN TO PLACE WHERE 
INTERRUPTED 
;LOAD WORD OUT 
;LOAD STATUS BYTE 

;MAKE BL = 00 IF IN, CO OR 01 IF 
NOT 

OUTPUT BYTE ; OUTPUT BYTE 
SHIFT FOR NEXT BIT 
AND SAVE WORD FOR NEXT 
CYCLE 



;SEE IF USER IN OUTPUT MODE 

;NO, GO TO CKIN 

;IN OUTPUT MODE, INCREMENT 

BITS OUT 

;OUTPUT 10 BITS? 

;NO RETURN 

;YES, RESET STATUS AND 

;SET UP RETURN 

;FOR CHARGE-OUT OR CHARGE- 
IN 



;SET UP REGISTERS FOR USER 1 



SEE IF IN INPUT MODE 

IF NOT, RETURN (THRU BRET) 

INPUT AGAIN & VERIFY VALID 
DATE 
VALID, 

YES, BIT IS GOOD 
NO, BIT u ERROR" IN STATUS 

WAITING FOR START BIT? 

YES, GO TO WAITST 

GET BYTE SO FAR 

SHIFT ONCE FOR NEW BIT 

SAVE BYTE IN 

SEE IF 8 BITS IN 

-NO 

YES RESET COUNT OF BITS IN 

SEE IF BAD BIT IN MIDDLE 
--NO, CHARACTER GOOD, 
BAD UNIT, RESET STATUS AND 

RESET STATUS 



PREPARE FOR RETURN 
SEE IF START BIT IN 
-NOT YET 
--YES, RESET STATUS 



;SAVE REGISTERS 



Listing 1 continued on page 58 



56 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



N TTl 




2m ^BZ 


• * J*i i 


~iu 1 




^_1 . *^B 


1 J*^ -^"^^ ' ' 


i "B 


*** v*'»s 


-ml i-Bf* 


^ v^ ■■ ■ • 


ii^BIl 




H HJI 


•v.. 












PHM kabq 




^^*OT«B^Bffln; 


1 






ITS THE THOUGHT THAT COUNTS 



The Microtek MT-80 looks like a few other 
alphanumeric line printers on the market to- 
day. But there is a difference. 

Our versatile, low-cost MT-80 has been de- 
signed with a more powerful brain resulting 
in more advanced features and more depend- 
able performance. We believe our printer is 
so reliable that we offer you an incredible 
365 days warranty. 

If you want dependable performance, fast 
factory service and a low price, look for the 
Microtek label. The brain behind our printer 
really makes the difference. It's the thought 
that counts, 



LOADED WITH INNOVATIONS 

• 40, 80 or 120 columns (software select- 
able) 

Non-thermal paper, pin feed 
125 CPS, 70 lines per minute 
9 x 7 dot matrix 
Vertical format unit 

96-character ASCII (upper and lower case) 
Adjustable forms width to 9V2' f 
Parallel and serial (RS-232C) interfaces 
available 




MICROTEK 

For more information contact: 

MICROTEK, Inc. 

9514 Che ,;paake Drive 

San Diego, CA 92123 

Tel. (7 :„ ^8-0633 



Listing 1: Multitasking code that allows two users to he served by the same processor, seemingly simultaneously. Here it is written in 
assembly language for the 16-bit Intel 8088 microprocessor. When no user requires service, the processor executes a tight loop. When 
some operation must be carried out, this routine supervises the process. Various I/O operations and counter events cause this code to 
be entered. The algorithm is shown in flowchart form in figure 4. 



Hexadecimal Hexadecimal 
Address Code 



Line Label 



Instruction 
Mnemonic Operand 



Commentary 



FE28 
FE2B 
FE2D 
FE30 

FE31 

FE32 

FE34 

FE37 

FE3A 

FE40 

FE42 

FE44 

FE45 

FE46 

FE49 

FE4C 

FE4D 

FE4F 

FE52 

FE53 

FE54 

FE56 

FE59 

FE5C 

FE60 

FE63 

FE66 

FE68 

FE6B 

FE6D 

FE71 

FE74 

FE77 

FE7A 
FE7B 
FE7D 
FE80 
FE83 

FE86 
FE88 
FE8A 
FE8D 
FE90 
FE93 
FE95 

FE97 

FE9B 

FE9E 

FEAO 

FEA2 

FEA 

FEA6 

FEAA 

FEAB 

FEAC 

FEAD 

FEAE 

FEAF 

FEBO 

FEB1 



EB5990 


1174 




IMP 


USER? 


EBFE 


1175 


IORTI: 


JMP 


IORTI 


A0AD00 R 


1176 


CIRT: 


MOV 


AL,BYTEIN 


C3 


1177 
1178 




RET 




50 


1179 


CO; 


PUSH 


AX 


D1E0 


1180 




SAL 


AX,1 


0D000F 


1181 




OR 


AX,0F00H 


A3AB00 R 


1182 




MOV 


WORDOT,AX 


C606AA000090 R 


1183 




MOV 


OUTCYC0 


B001 


1184 




MOV 


AL,1 


EBD8 


1185 




JMP 


COMP 


58 


1186 


CORT: 


POP 


AX 


C3 


1187 




RET 




E81801 


1188 


TIMEOUT: 


CALL 


SVREG 


BA0200 


1189 




MOV 


DXJNPORT 


EC 


1190 




IN 


AL,DX 


8AE0 


1191 




MOV 


AH,AL 


BA01F0 


1192 




MOV 


DXJNPRT2 


EC 


1193 




IN 


AL,DX 


50 


1194 




PUSH 


AX 


8BC8 


1195 




MOV 


CX,AX 


BA0100 


1196 




MOV 


DX,OUTPORT 


E85700 


1197 




CALL 


OUTWORD 


8926A700 R 


1198 




MOV 


STACKP,SP 


BA00F0 


1199 




MOV 


DX,OUTPT2 


B80800 


1200 




MOV 


AX,00008H 


8ED0 


1201 




MOV 


SS,AX 


B82000 


1202 




MOV 


AX,20H 


8ED8 


1203 




MOV 


DS,AX 


8B26A700 R 


1204 




MOV 


SP,STACKP 


E83F00 


1205 




CALL 


OUTWORD 


BA01F0 


1206 




MOV 


DXJNPRT2 


E84E00 


1207 




CALL 


INBYTE 


59 


1208 




POP 


CX 


8ACD 


1209 




MOV 


CL,CH 


BA0200 


1210 




MOV 


DXJNPORT 


E84500 


1211 




CALL 


INBYTE 


A0AE00 R 


1212 


USER?: 


MOV 


AL,STATUS 


2403 


1213 




AND 


AL,03H 


7406 


1214 




JZ 


CKU2 


B80800 


1215 




MOV 


AX,00008H 


EB0F90 


1216 




JMP 


PRETI 


A0AE02 R 


1217 


CKU2: 


MOV 


AL,STATS2 


2403 


1218 




AND 


AL,03H 


7509 


1219 




JNZ 


PRET 


36A10C00 


1220 


SWUS: 


MOV 


AX,SS:STACKS 


350800 


1221 




XOR 


AX,0008H 


8ED0 


1222 


PRETI: 


MOV 


SS,AX 


D1E0 


1223 




SAL 


AX,1 


D1E0 


1224 




MOV 


SP,STACKP 


8ED8 


1225 




SAL 


A,l 


8B26A700 R 


1226 




MOV 


DS.AX 


07 


1227 




POP 


ES 


5D 


1228 




POP 


BP 


5F 


1229 




POP 


DI 


5E 


1230 




POP 


SI 


5A 


1231 




POP 


DX 


59 


1232 




POP 


CX 


5B 


1233 




POP 


BX 


58 


1234 




POP 


AX 



;LOOPS TO ITSELF 
;RETURNS HERE 



SAVE REGISTERS 
SHIFT LEFT TO SET 
OR TO SET UP STOP 

RESET OUTCYCLES 
SET STATUS TO OUT 
SEE IF NEED TO GO 



;SAVE REGISTERS 
; INPUT USER 1 



INPUT USER 2 

SAVE FOR FUTURE USE 

INPUT DATA,SAVE 

SET UP OUTPUT, USER 1 

OUTPUT 

NEXT BIT OR STOP BIT 



;SET UP SEGMENTS FOR USER 2 



;OUTPUT NEXT BIT OR CHIP BIT 

;PROCESS INPUT/OUTPUT 
CYCLES, USER 2 
;RESTORE INPUTS 

;PROCESS INPUT/OUTPUT ,USER2 

DETERMINE WHICH USER TO 
RESTORE 

IF UI IN CO OR CI 
UI IN CO OR CI 
GO TO U2 



;USER 2 IN CO OR CI,RETURN TO 
UI 

;SWITCH USER FROM PREVIOUS 



;SET UP STOCK & DATA SEG 
;RESTORE REGISTERS 



Listing 1 continued on page 56 



54 April I960 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 24 on inquiry card. 



people 

who play the 

computer 

specify 
\ferbatinr 



Virtuoso performers at 
computer keyboards deserve 
the ultimate in recording 
quality. That's why you 
should specify Verbatim 
brand diskettes, minidisks, 
cartridges and data cassettes 
for your computer or word 
processing system. 

At Verbatim, the whole mes- 
sage is quality. We specialize 
in digital data recording media 
and have become the world 
leader by setting the standards 
for flawless, dropout-free 
magnetic media. Every size/ 
every format, and available 
everywhere. Order them from 



your computer supplies dealer. 
Simply specify Verbatim. 

For the name of your nearest 
Verbatim distributor, call: 

800-538-1793 

In California call: 

(408) 737-7771 collect 

Verbatim Corporation 
323 Soquel Way 
Sunnyvale, CA 94086 

In Europe: 

Verbatim S.A. 

Case Postale 296 

1215 Geneve 15 

Switzerland 

Telephone: 41(22) 34-90-55 

Telex: 22647 ITCE CH. 




result to the position within the seg- 
ment. 

For example, if the processor was 
instructed to load the byte at hexa- 
decimal location 154 within the seg- 



f outword j 



is 

"USER IN \ N0 
^OUTPUT MODE ^ 
? 



YES 




PUT "STOP" 
BIT IN STRING 



OUTPUT 
BYTE 



SHIFT DATA 
FOR NEXT I/O 
AND SAVE 



f RETURN J 



Figure 4c: Routine to send output from 
one of the users. 



ment, and the data-segment register 
contained the hexadecimal value 14, 
the resulting effective address is com- 
puted as: 

14 16 X 10 16 - 140 16 

(data segment value times 16) 

+ 154 16 

294 16 

(location within the segment) 

Therefore, if I want the processor to 
access user l's pushdown-stack buf- 
fers, I set the stack-segment register 
equal to 0. When I access the stack 
buffer, which is located from hexa- 
decimal addresses 10 to 7F, the effec- 
tive address computed will still be 
hexadecimal 10 to 7F. 

If I want to access user 2's stack, I 
set the stack-segment register to a 
value of 8. When the processor com- 
putes the effective address, it will 
multiply the stack-segment value by 
16 and add the product to the loca- 
tion within the segment. This means 
that user 2's stack buffer will be cor- 
rectly addressed in hexadecimal loca- 
tions 90 thru FF while allowing the 



540 times faster... 
and more! 

Meet Pascal/Z,™ the fast, flexible compiler with" 
higher speed, greater efficiency and improved debugging: - 

■ True Z-80 native code Pascal compiler — 5-10X faster 
than competing P-code implementations— no interpreter 
required. 

■ The only multi-tasking Pascal — produces ROMable 
re-entrant code. 

■ Optimized for fastest execution — recognizes and 
exploits special cases. 

■ Easily transportable — all hooks to your system made 
through support library. 

■ Includes standard floating point package. Single 
copy on CP/M-compatibie disk includes compiler, 
companion macro-assembler & source of the library, $395. 
OEM licenses available. Write or call for more information. 

V\ A. f^XI A 



II ii ii ii[<wii^>mii[< mn^ 



Ithaca Intersystems Inc ,1650 Hanshaw Road/RO. Box 91, 
Ithaca, NY14850/607-257-O190/TWX: 510255 4346 

©1979 Ithaca Intersystems Inc. 



program to use the same address 
values used to access user l's stack. 

The program buffers are handled in 
essentially the same way. For user 1, 
the data-segment register and extra- 
segment register are set to 0, and the 
program is written to address the buf- 
fers as hexadecimal addresses 1000 to 
11FF. When I want to access user 2's 
program, I load the segment registers 
with the hexadecimal value 20. When 
the processor computes the effective 
address, it will come up with hexa- 
decimal addresses 1200 thru 13FF, 
which is what I want. 

Since the interpreter itself does not 
modify values in the segment regis- 
ters, the interpreter never knows 
which user-task it is currently work- 
ing on, but it does not care. With the 
proper loading of the segment reg- 
isters by the operating system, the 
correct buffer of the current user will 
be used. 

Using this feature, the 8088 pro- 
cessor can work for several users, 
switching between them by manipu- 
lating only the segment registers. 
Because of memory limitations, the 
maximum practical number of users 
on the system described here is only 
two. However, the programs could 
just as easily serve three or four users 
as two users. 

Software Modifications 

There are two other software 
routines that must be specifically 
modified to handle multiprocessing. 
The initiating sequence of code that is 
executed when a restart signal is 
received must be changed. Also, an 
interrupt handler for the nonmask- 
able interrupt generated by the timer 
of the 8155 must be added. 

When the microprocessor is reset, 
the initiating routine initializes all the 
I/O ports and sends out the initial 
stop-bit signal to the terminals. It also 
sets up user 2's stack area so that the 
processor will begin execution at the 
START routine when it is through 
processing user 1. After setting the 
correct data-transfer rate for the user 
terminals, the initiating routine jumps 
to START for user 1. The initiating 
routine is required so that the 
registers, buffer areas, and the stacks 
will be set up properly for each user 
before any other processing begins. 

Once normal processing has begun, 

the routine that handles the timer-out 

Text continued on page 58 



52 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 22 on inquiry card. 



Circle 23 on inquiry card. 



Introducing our new Alphanumeric Line Printer 
the Anadex Apple/Sider. Specifically designed 
for the Apple Computer Business System, 
Apple/Sider provides the 96-characters-per-line 
required by AL AP and GL Software of the 
Apple Controller. 



Based on the time-proven Anadex Model DP-8000 
printer, this new unit (Model DP-8000-AP) 
bi-directionally prints the complete 96 ASCII 
character set in 96 columns at 134 CPS or 
84 LPM nominal throughput. 

Apple/Sider features a heavy duty printing 
head (100M character life) that can print the 
original plus up to 3 copies on paper whose 
width can range from under 3 inches to 9 Vz 
inches. Paper can be loaded either through the 
rear or through the bottom of the printer. 



Standard features include a 1K character buffer 
storage (optional, an additional 2048 character 
storage for CRT dump or similar uses), internal 
programmable top of form and skip over 
perforation controls, double width printing, and 
a self test feature which checks all memory 
and printing functions. 



For complete details and the name of your 
nearest dealer, contact us today. Inquiries from 
qualified dealers are welcomed. 



ie Computer compatible Printer 

i" Registered Apple Computer, Inc. _ 

anadex 
apple/sider 



^ f% 



\ * 



ANADlt INC. • 9825 DeSoto Avenue •Tlhats 

ANADEX, LTD. • Dorna House, fuil^f^ Road • West i 



-phone: (213) 998-8010 • TWX 910-494-2761 

*Chobham (099S^33\« Telex 8 r >8762#AN|fDEX G 



CLEAR STATUS 
SET UP STACK FOR 
RETURN TO OUT 
ROUTINE 




4b 



RESET STATUS 



RESET STATUS 
AND COUNT j 
BEGIN INPUT 
AGAIN 



SET UP STACK 

FOR RETURN 

TO INPUT ROUTINE 



(RETURN TO^N 
TIMER OUT J 



f TIMOUT J 



SAVE 
REGISTERS 



INPUT BYTE 
FROM USER 1 



INPUT BYTE 
FROM USER 2 



OUTWORD 



OUTPUT BYTE 
TO USER 1 



OUTWORD 



OUTPUT BYTE 
TO USER 2 



INBYTE 



PERFORM I/O 

HOUSECLEANING 
FOR USER 1 



INBYTE 



PERFORM I/O 
HOUSECLEANING 
FOR USER 2 




/return kT\ 

VjJSER 2 J 



USER 2 \ YES 

IN I/O MODE 



^RETURN T0\ 
VJSER 1 J 



( RETURN j 



Figure 4: Flowchart of the multitasking routine of listing 1, which divides the resources of the 8088 system between the two users. 

(4a) Routine to receive input from one of the users. 

(4b) Routine to handle timing out of the time-arbitration counter. 



belonging to one user in a relative 
mode, and to modify the actual 
memory area being accessed by just 
changing the segment registers to 
point to the area containing the 
specific user-task we currently want 
to work with. 

Specifically, the 256 bytes of user 
memory in the 8155 are divided into 
two areas, one for each user, to pro- 



vide the required stack buffers. The 
1 K bytes of user memory in the 8185 
are divided into four areas for each 
user. User l's stack buffer goes from 
hexadecimal locations 10 to 7F. User 
2's stack buffer goes from hexa- 
decimal locations 90 to FF. 

Corresponding areas in the two 
stack buffers are separated by hexa- 
decimal 80 bytes. Each of the buffers 



in the program buffer area of memory 
(contained in the 8185) is separated 
by hexadecimal 200 bytes. These 
memory areas are shown in figure 3. 
When the microprocessor needs to 
access a given area in memory, the 
effective address of the memory that 
is to be accessed is computed by 
multiplying the appropriate segment 
register by 16, and then adding the 



50 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 21 on inquiry card. 



APPLE • 



ALTOS # 



LSI-11 • 



Are your it 

reac 



t 



TRS-80 
MODEL 1 • 
MODEL 2 



Now you can transform your personal computer into a multi-user 
system for business or educational applications. From two to 
sixty-four computers can be linked together sharing up to 40 
million bytes of Corvus hard disk capacity. 

A true multi-processing system, the CONSTELLATION™ pro- 
vides open or secured access to all data files on the Corvus disk 
drive. Additional benefits include the ability to share peripherals 
and communicate with other computers in the CONSTELLATION 
network. Providing performance usually found in much more 
expensive systems, the price of the CONSTELLATION multiplexer 
is only $750. Interfaces for additional computers are as low as $235. 

The CONSTELLATION is another innovative new product in the 
growing family of intelligent peripherals from Corvus. Our 10 
million byte disk drives, MIRROR™ back-up/archival storage 
system, and now the CONSTELLATION, are all fully compatible 
with the most popular microcomputers available today: APPLE" 
(DOS and Pascal), TRS-80* * (Model I & II), S-100 BUS, LSI-11, 
and ALTOS. Our Z-80 based intelligent controller handles up to 
four 10 million byte Winchester disks of proven performance and 
reliability— the IMI-7710. 

Corvus— recognized leader in intelligent peripherals for micro- 
computers — provides solutions, not just hardware. 

For complete information call or write Corvus today. 

•Trademark of Apple Computers, Inc. 
* * Trademark of Radio Shack, a Tandy Co. 

Corvus CONSTELLATION photo courtesy Science Graphics, Tucson, Ariz. 



CORVUS SYSTEMS, Inc. 



2029 OToole Avenue 
San Jose, California 95131 
408/246-0461 TWX: 910-338-0226 



1000 
1020 



IF 



3d 



1200 



3a 



80 
90 



F0 



INTERRUPT VECTORS 



USER 1 STACK 



UNUSED MEMORY 



USER 2 STACK 



7F 
8F 



FF 



SYSTEM VARIABLES USER 1 


USER VARIABLES USER 1 




1 

USER 1 


INPUT LINE BUFFER 


S STATUS I/O ! 




USER 1 

PROGRAM TEXT BUFFER 


SYSTEM VARIABLES USER 2 


USER VARIABLES USER 2 




1 

USER 2 


INPUT LINE BUFFER 


| STATUS I/O | 




USER 2 

PROGRAM TEXT BUFFER 



11FF 



13FF 



Figure 3: Map of memory use of the 8088 multi-user operating system. Programmable memory from hexadecimal addresses 00 thru FF 
is contained in the 8155 integrated circuit and is used chiefly to hold the pushdown stack for each user. Memory from hexadecimal 
locations 1000 thru 13FF is in the 8185 device, and stores various data belonging to the two user-tasks. Memory from hexadecimal 
addresses 0F800 to OFFFF takes the form of EPROM in the 8755 A, which stores the operating system. 



the 8086, addresses all memory loca- 
tions using one of four segment 
registers. 

All of the jumps and subroutine 
calls within a program are made 
relative to the current position of the 



instruction pointer. Hence, the jumps 
and calls are not specific to the 
memory segment where a given sec- 
tion of program code is placed. The 
code can be moved from place to 
place within memory, and will still 



execute properly if the segment 
registers are set up correctly. 

It is also this segmenting feature 
that allows us to write the BASIC 
interpreter in such a way as to 
address the buffers and programs 



INSTEAD of a catalog, have you ever seen those dreaded words: 

I/O ERROR? 



Track & Sector List™ 

Is all lost? NO! Now you may be able to save 
your disk. With this interactive assembly 
language utility program, which enables thedisk 
to be directly accessed, you can "undelete" a 
deleted file, protect a bad sector from access, 
remove invisible control characters embedded 
in file names, and much more. Because the data 




on an entire sector is displayed on one screen- 
page, it is possible to identify an 1/0 ERROR 
and recover from it The 32-page tutorial manual 
begins with basic concepts of disk operation and 
progresses to detail the directory, the VT0C, 
track bit maps, etc. If you use Track & Sector 
List only once to recover a lost program, it is 
worth it! Disk only (32K) 29.95 



AppIeAids 



Form-It-Out™ 

A series of routines in Integer Basic and Applesoft containing detailed 
explanation and examples of programming techniques necessary to 
format your screen output. Included are cursor positioning and loca- 
tion, right and center justification, text windowing and error 
subroutines. 
Cassette (32K), . 14.95 Disk (48K) 19.95 

Scroll Control™ 

Have you ever wondered why you cannot list an Integer Basic or 
Applesoft program one screen-page at a time? So have we, and we 
did something about it! Our machine language Scroll Control, hidden 
in RAM so as not to "bump" into your program, can be engaged or dis- 
engaged at a flick of the keyboard. Why be frustrated when instead you 
can control the scroll? 
Cassette 9.95 Disk 14.95 



N.J. res. add 5% sales tax 

Add $1.50/item, shipping and handling 

Apple II, Apple II plus and Applesoft are 

registered trademarks of 

Apple Computer, Inc. 



Little Tricks™ 

A series of carefully explained subroutines containing a potpourri of 
useful programming techniques in Integer Basic and Applesoft, such as 
specific key stroke identification, timing loops, simple sort, iterative 
solution, no return key entry, and many more. 
Cassette (1 6K). ........ 1 4.95 Disk (32K) 1 9.95 

Hex and Decimal Learning ies 

My ABC's and Now I Can Rhyme are both early learning Integer Basic 
programs requiring 48K, incorporating high resolution graphic letters 
and pictures in a drill-and-practice format. My ABC's is designed to 
develop identification of capital letters with pictures. Now \ Can Rhyme 

is designed to develop rhyming skills. Score-keeping capabilities allow 
adult monitoring of progress. Child tested and teacher recognized. 
Each program; Cassette. . . 14.95 Disk 1 9.95 



P.O. Box774M 
Morristown, NJ 07960 
(201)539-3770 




INCORPORATED 
software for the Apple II and Apple II plus 



48 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 19 on inquiry card. 



26 MEGABYTES 




Suddenly, S-100 microcomputer systems can easily handle 100 million 
bytes. Because Morrow Designs™ now offers the first 26 megabyte hard disk 
memory for S-100 systems-the DISCUS M26™ Hard Disk System, 

It has 26 megabytes of useable memory (29 megabytes 
unformatted). And it's expandable to 104 megabytes. 

The DISCUS M26™ system is delivered comptefe- 
a 26 megabyte hard disk drive, controller, cables and operating system^-for 
just $4995. Up to three additional drives can be added, $4495 apiece- 

The DISCUS M26™ system features the Shugart SA^)08 
Winchester-type sealed media hard disk drive, in a handsome metal cabinet 
with fan and power supply. 

The single-board S-100 controller incorporates intelli- 
gence to supervise all data transfers, communicating with the CPU via Y 
three I/O ports (command, status, and data). The controller has the abilt§[ to 
generate interrupts at the completion of each command to increase system 
throughput. There is a 512 byte sector buffer on-board. And each sector can be 
individual ly write-profected for data base security. 

The operating system furnished with DISCUS M26™ 
systems is the widely accepted CP/M* 2.0. 

See the biggest, most cost-efficient memory ever intro- 
duced for S-100 systems, now at your local computer shop. If unavailable 
locally write Morrow Designs,™ 5221 Central Avenue, Richmond, CA 948041 
Or call (415) 524-2101, weekdays 10-5 Pacific Time. 





*CP/M is a frademark of Digital Research. 



Q /HORROR DESIGNS™ 

Thinker Tbys 



Circle 18 on inquiry card 



Manual. Alone 

D XYBASIC Interactive Process Control BASIC - Full 
disk BASIC features plus unique commands to han- 
dle bytes, rotate and shift, and to test and set bits. 
Available in Integer, Extended and ROMable versions. 

Integer Disk or Integer ROMable $295/$25 

Extended Disk or Extended ROMable $395/$25 

D SMAL/80 Structured Macro Assembled Language — 
Package of powerful general purpose text macro 
processor and SMAL structured language compiler. 
SMAL is an assembler language with IF-THEN-ELSE, 
LOOP-REPEAT-WHILE, DO-END, BEGIN-END con- 
structs $75/$15 

D SELECTOR III-C2 - Data Base Processor to create 

® and maintain rnulti Key data bases. Prints formatted 

tt sorted reports with numerical summaries or mailing 

labels. Comes with sample applications, including 

^T f Sales Activity, Inventory, Payables, Receivables, 

'li u I N ' ii ' t< 

■"; ;^ 7 Requires CBASlC-2. Supplied in source . , $295/S20 
D GLECTOH - General Ledger option to SELECTOR 
III-C2. Interactive system provides for customized 
COA. Unique chart of transaction types insure proper 
double entry bookkeeping. Generates balance sheets, 
P&L statements and journals. Two year record allows 
for statement of changes in financial position report. 
Supplied in source. Requires SELECTOR III-C2. 
CBASIC-2 and 52K system $2S0/$25 

□ CPM/374X — Has full range of functions to create or 
re-name an IBM 3741 volume, display directory infor- 
mation and edit the data set contents. Provides full 
file transfer facilities between 3741 volume data sets 
and CP/M files $195/$10 

□ BASIC UTILITY DISK - Consists of: (1) CRUNCH-14 
® — Compacting utility to reduce the size and increase 

the speed of programs in Microsoft BASIC and TRS- 
80 BASIC. (2) DPFUN - Double precision subroutines 
for computing nineteen transcendental functions in- 
cluding square root, natural log, log base 10. sin, arc 
sin, hyperbolic sin, hyperbolic arc sin, etc. Furnished 
in source on diskette and documentation . . . $50/$35 
D STRING/80 — Character string handling plus routines 
® for direct CP/M BDOS calls from FORTRAN and other 
compatible Microsoft languages. The utility library 
contains routines that enable programs to chain to 
a COM file, retrieve command line parameters, and 
search file directories with full wild card facilities. 
Supplied as linkable modules in Microsoft format. 

S95/S20 

STRING/BO source code available separately S295/n.a. 
I" ] THE STRING BIT - FORTRAN character string han- 
® dling. Routines to find, fill, pack, move, separate, 
concatenate and compare character strings. This 
package completely eliminates the problems asso- 
ciated with character string handling in FORTRAN. 
Supplied with source $4S/$15 

□ BSTAM — Utility to link one computer to another also 
® equipped with BSTAM, Allows file transfers at full 

data speed (no conversion to hex), with CRC block 
control check for very reliable error detection and 
automatic retry. We use it! It's great! Full wildcard 
expansion to send *.COM, etc. 9600 baud with wire. 
300 baud with phone connection. Both ends need 
one. Standard and £$ versions can talk to one another. 
S150/M 

*•*••••* 

SUNDRIES 
AMOTIONS 

□ HEAD CLEANING DISKETTE-Cleans the drive Read/ 
Write head in 30 seconds. Diskette absorbs loose 
oxide particles, fingerprints, and other foreign parti- 
cles that might hinder the performance of the drive 
head. Lasts at least 3 months with daily use. Specify 
5" or 8" $20 ea./$45 for 3 

□ FLIPPY DISK KIT -Template and instructions to 
modify single sided 5 1 /4 " diskettes for use of second 
side in single sided drives $12.50 

□ FLOPPY SAVER Protection for center holes of SVa" 
floppy disks. Only 1 needed per diskette. Kit contains 
centering post, pressure tool, tough 7-mil mylar rein- 
forcing rings. Installation tools and rings for 25 disk- 
ettes $14.95 

Re-orders of rings only $7.95 

□ PASCAL USER MANUAL AND REPORT - By Jensen 
and Wirth. The standard textbook on the language. 
Recommended for use by Pascal/Z, Pascal/M and 
Pascal/MT users $8 

G THE C PROGRAMMING LANGUAGE - By Kernighan 
and Ritchie, The standard textbook on the language. 
Recommended for use by BDS C, tiny C, and White- 
smiths C users $12 

•••••••• 

*CP/M and MP/M are trademarks of Digital Research. 
Z80 is a trademark of Zilog. Inc. 
UNIX is a trademark of Bell Laboratories. 
WHATSIT? is a trademark of Computer Headware. 
Electric Pencil is a trademark of Michael Shrayer 
Software. 

TRS-80 is a trademark of Tandy Corp. 
Pascal/M is a trademark of Sorcim. 

tCP/M for Heath and TRS-80 Model I are modified and 
must use specially compiled versions of system and 
applications software. 

ttRecommended system configuration consists of 48K 
CP/M, 2 full size disk drives, 24 x 80 CRT and 132 
column printer. 

® Modified version available for use with CP/M as im- 
plemented on Heath and TRS-80 Model I computers. 

©User license agreement for this product must be 
signed and returned to Lifeboat Associates before 
shipment may be made. 

® ®This product Includes/eXcludes the language manual 
recommended in Sundries and Notions. 



Orders must specify disk 
systems and formats: 
e.g. North Star single, 
double or quad density. 
IBM single or 2D/256, 
Altair, Helios It. 
Micropohs Mod I or II, 
5Wt" soft sector (Micro 
iCOM/SD Systems 
Dynabyte),etc. 

Prices F.O B. New York 
Shipping, handling and 
COD. charges extra. 

Manual cost applicable 
against price of 
subsequent software 
purchase 

The sale of each 
proprietary software 
package conveys a 
license for use on one 
system only 



ru The Software Supermarket is a 




ol Lifeboat Associates 



HIS 

CONTRIBUTIONS 

WERE MADE 

POSSIBLE 

IRS. 




When you give to the United Negro College Fund, you help sup- 
port- 41 private, four-year colleges and graduate schools. Colleges that 
could be training a black professional you may need someday. 

Send your check to: United Negro College Fund, Box B, 500 E. 
62nd Street, New York, New York 10021. We're not asking for a handout, 
just a hand. 

No one can do it alone. 

GIVE TO THE UNITED NEGRO COLLEGE FUND. 

A mind is a terrible thing to waste. 

A pubhc service of this magazine and The Ad vemsing Council. 

BYTE April 1980 101 



a. 
b. I 



Figure 1: Broken and continuous line segments, the two states used by the I Ching hexa- 
grams. 



(6) 
(5) 

(4) 
(3) 
(2) 
(D 



Figure 2: A typical I Ching hexagram. The six positions are numbered from bottom to 
top. The top three positions form the upper trigram; the bottom positions form the 
lower trigram. Meaning is attached to both the state, broken or continuous, and the 
position of the lines. 



Text continued from page 96: 

of six lines with chingish meaning 
attached to binary state and to posi- 
tion, also contains an upper and 
lower trigram. Each trigram has a 
meaning, not only independently but 
in relation to the other trigram. 

Since the "magic" resides in your 
ability to read your own hexagram, it 
is important that you clearly under- 
stand all the different ways to read it. 
This is why I am carrying on at such 
length, and why the texts of the J 
Ching, while there are only sixty-four 
of them, are capable of doing an in- 
credible job of fortune-hinting. 

The / Ching is a book of texts, each 
one of them describing, explaining, 
and commenting on a particular 
hexagram. Each hexagram has a 
name and a meaning as a whole, but 
so does each of the trigrams and each 
of the six lines, both in the context of 
its trigram and of the hexagram. 
When you cast a hexagram, the next 
step is to consult the texts for its 
meaning to see how it applies to your 
particular case. 

There are many good translations 
of J Ching texts available at most 
libraries, and there are one or two in- 
expensive paperback editions of J 
Ching texts. Ask your local book 
dealer; some references are listed at 
the end of this article. There are 
several translations, and some are 
more structured than others. I prefer 
any translation edition by Legge over 
the one introduced by Jung, because 
the latter unfortunately fleshes out 
the textual bones with a lot of typical 
Jungian verbosity. 

102 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Personally, I prefer using the J 
Ching to talking about it. Using the 
program of listing 1, along with the 
simplest / Ching text you can find at 
the library or paperback bookstore, is 
going to give you an unending supply 
of mental entertainment, and perhaps 
bring on the surprise of an occasional 
insight. 

Rules for using the program are 
very simple. First, think of some 
question you want to ask the 
"oracle." Be reasonably serious about 
it, as the "answers" will be involved 
and you will have to want to think 
about what they really mean. Then 
"cast" your hexagram by pressing the 
Enter (or Return) key at the ap- 
propriate time during execution of the 
program. Concentrate on the ques- 
tion as the hexagram is cast, and you 
will receive an output of your per- 
sonal hexagram in response. The hex- 
agram will be accompanied by a 
numerical code which should help 
you to look up the proper text, 
depending on which edition of the J 
Ching you are using. 

Read the text written for your 
hexagram and study the descriptive 
and advisory texts for each line. You 
will be surprised at what you may 
learn about your problem and about 
yourself. 

If you cast a hexagram while in the 
wrong frame of mind, don't hesitate 
to erase it and try again. Concentra- 
tion is crucial, and, while a cast of 
tortoiseshell wands can't be erased, a 
cast by computer can be returned to 
nonexistence by merely pressing the 
Enter key in order to try again. ■ 



Notes on the / Ching 

The program listed here is a first 
approximation (good enough "to 
attract the attention of the op- 
posite sex/' especially in Califor- 
nia) of a more detailed method of 
reading the I Ching. In this 
method, which is listed in most 
translations of the I Ching book, a 
second hexagram can be generated 
using "moving lines, '' 'which form 
under certain conditions. If a hexa- 
gram contains one or more moving 
lines, a second hexagram that is 
read differently can be generated 
by changing each moving line to its 
opposite form, that is, from solid 
to broken and vice versa. (For 
those interested, each line random- 
ly chosen has a one-quarter chance 
of being a moving line. See the 
preface to Legge s translation for 
more information). 

Quite apart from its purported 
mystical use, the I Ching can be 
seen with a more Western view. 
Some psychologists, and notably 
Carl Jung, have interpreted the I 
Ching as a sounding hoard for the 
subconscious. Jungs idea is, given 
that the interpretations of the I 
Ching are vaguely phrased, the 
person interpreting a hexagram 
will unconsciously read it in terms 
of the subconscious' desires. I find 
that this interpretation has some 
practical value when using the I 
Ching as a decision-making device, 
although some people would say 
that it merely transfers the motive 
force of the I Ching from one 
supernatural realm to another.... 
GW 



References 

1. Baynes, Gary F, The I Ching: or Book of 
Changes, Richard Wilhelm translation 
rendered into English; foreword by Carl 
Jung. Princeton University Press, Prince- 
ton NJ, 1967. 

2. Hook, Diana, The I Ching and Mankind, 
Routledge and Kegan Paul, London and 
Boston, 1975. 

3. Legge, James (translator), The I Ching, 
Dover Publications, New York, second 
edition, 1963. 

4. Legge, James, (translator), The i Ching: 
Book of Changes, edited, with introduc- 
tion and study guide by Ch'u Chai with 
Winburg Chai, University Books, 
Secaucus NJ 1964. 

5. Liu, Da, / Ching Coin Prediction, Harper 
and Row, New York, 1975. 

6. Wilhelm, Helmut, Heaven, Earth and Man 
in the Book of Changes: Seven Eranos 
Lectures, University of Washington Press, 
Seattle, 1977. 



guiH 



RO-SOUND 



The ORIGINAL Computer People 

who KNOW Computers 

and offer EVERYTHING you need 

in Small Computer Systems 



TERMINALS 
ADDS Regent 25 




L_J 1 AD| 


LEAR SIEGLER 


ADM 3A \ 


ADM 31 \ 


ADM 42 " 


HAZELTINE 


1400 


1500 


Modi 


1410 


1510 


Edit 


1420 


1520 









1 S0rhl Prin ter 



\ 



PRINTERS 

QUME Sprint 

5/45 KSR 
5/55 





DECwriter IV 

LA 34 



TELETYPE 

43 




~Z 




CENTRONICS 

779-2 I 703-0 
700-2 I 730 



MANY OF OUR PRICES ARE TOO LOW 
TO ADVERTISE. PLEASE CALL OR WRITE 



^ °eveio, 

COMPUTERS 

DIGITAL SYSTEMS 

DSC 2 

Dble. Density 
Dual Drive Disk 



Devel opme n , M 0r b B y 
l 95 ° rB ^sss ystem 





NORTHSTAR 

HORIZON II 
HORIZON II Quad 



Sf 




CROMEMCO 

System 3 




ATARI 

400 
800 



MORE SPECIALS 

OkidataSL125 $2595.00 

0ktdataSL300 2995.00 

Persci 277 Dbie 



Density 
imsaiPCS80/15 . 
Teievideo912,920 



1395.00 

499.00 

CALL 



Livermore Accoustic 
Coupler $249.00 

Centronics 
Microprinter 349.00 



5" Scotch Diskette 
Box 34.95 

8" Scotch Diskette 

Box 39.95 



We carry a full line of Alpha-Micro Products. 

We have a full staff of Programmers and Computer 

Consultants to design, configure and deliver a Turnkey 

Computer System to meet your specific requirements. 



± 



■ 
J. 



-HE COMPUTER PEOPLE 
i Jamaica Ave., Jamaica. Nev 



ENTERPRISES, INC. 



bw York-212/468-7067 

Los Angeles-213/628-1808 

Chicago-312/641-3010 

Dallas-214/742-60"^ 



Circle 60 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 103 



Heuristics 

SpeechLink™ 

2000 



Talk To Your Computer . . . 

• Voice data entry to the Apple® 
computer 

• Voice control of your Apple® 
system 

• User variable vocabulary 
(64 words and up) 

• Applesoft & Integer Basic 
compatible with or without 
disk operating system 

Useful For . . 

• Collecting inventory data 

• Running the Apple® as a terminal 

• Controlling production test 
equipment (say "test 2") 

• Menu selection of programs 
(say "stocks") 

• Entering stock market data 

• Educational programsforthe kids 
(say "square") 

See your computer dealer. 
Model 2000 suggested retail price 
$259, model 20A $189. 



INC 

1285 HAMMERWOOD AVENUE 
SUNNYVALE, CALIFORNIA 94086 
408/734-8532 

Apple® is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Corporation 

104 April 1980 © byte Publications inc Circle 61 on inquiry card. 



Technical Fopum 



MicroShakespeare 



Andrew E Kalnik, 3201 Wamath Dr, Charlotte NC 28210 

Imagine how many of the concepts and problems of 
microprocessing have been addressed by the world's 
foremost exponent of high-level language: William 
Shakespeare. What he wrote, almost 400 (hexadecimal 
190) years ago, deals directly with the emotions aroused 
in our half -happy, half -feverish engagement in the art of 
computing. 

For example, anyone who has struggled through a 
night of debugging, fighting the false starts, the glitched- 
up thinking channels, the ' lt's-two-thirty-already-won't- 
anything-ever-work-again?" kind of anxiety will know 
that the bearded bard said it truly in Richard HI: 

"Oh I have pass'd a miserable night 
So full of ugly sights, of ghostly dreams, 

That . . . 
I would not spend another such a night 

Though 'twere to buy a world of happy days. . . 



Here is a quiz to test your knowledge of microcom- 
puting wares, soft and hard, and to do a quick com- 
parison of today's terms with the high style of 
Elizabethan theater. 

Just match the letters of each of the modern phrases 
with the most suitable numbered Shakespearean quotes. 
No one is going to know how you came out, unless you 
tell. The answers and ratings are on pages 108 and 110. 



1. ( ) 



2. ( ) 



3. ( ) 



. . . The need- 


a. 


"GIGO!" 






ful bits . . . 










Measure for 










Measure, I/iii 










(Act I, scene 










3) 










. . . one that 


b. 


"We should 






wouldst be a 




have one more 




bawd . . . 




position in 




King Lear, 




each byte for 




Il/ii 




parity check- 
ing." 




. . . super- 


c. 


"This program 




fluous 




is driving me 




branches we 




up the wall." 




lop away . . . 










Richard II, 










Ill/iv 












APPLE OWNERS - 

EXPAND YOUR SYSTEM 

WITH 8" FLOPPY DISK 

DRIVES FROM WIZARD* 

WIZARD 

Many software programs are restricted by the 1 1 6 K available on the 5" disk 
drives now on the market. Some business programs require 1 2 or more disk- 
ettes, which can be both confusing and error inducing. 

WIZARD offers four solutions: 

"WIZARDS +1": single 8" drive system; 256 K $1695 

"WIZARD 2 + 2": two 8" drive system; 51 6 K $2495. 

"WIZARD PLUS" : two 8" drives, double sided; over 1 megabyte $31 50. 
"WIZARD 10" : 10 megabyte Winchester hard disk drive, formatted as 

one file, or as 24 individual files $4795. 

All systems are ready to run, fully assembled and tested, and include: 

SHUGART full size 8" floppy disk drive(s). 

Controller Card for your Apple (48K RAM required) 

All interface software, cables, connectors, cabinet and power supply. 

ONE YEAR parts and labor warranty from defects in material and workmanship. 

WATCH FOR NEW WIZARD PRODUCTS FROM D&T ELECTRONICS: 
we are currently developing other hardware and business software. 



ALL SYSTEMS AVAILABLE NOW (stock to two weeks). 
SEE YOUR LOCAL APPLE DEALER, OR ORDER FROM: 

COMPUTER DISTRIBUTORS, INC. 

PO BOX 9194 

Austin, TX 78766 

(512) 345-9729 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 



SOFTWARE: We have business software to run on these expanded capacity systems; 
please send for our list. 
If you are a software writer and have programs currently on 5" that would 
benefit from the expanded capacity of our 8" systems, we would like to 
hear from you. 

WIZARD is a registered trademark of D&T Electronics, Inc. 
Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 

Circle 62 on inquiry card. BYTE April 1980 105 



HOW TO MANAGE YOUR 
INFORMATION EXPLOSION 

1. MODERN MICROPROCESSOR SYSTEM 
DESIGN: Sixteen Bit and Bit-Slice Architecture 
Daniel R. McGlynn 

Presents a detailed overview (with examples) of the new 16-bit 
and bit-slice microprocessors, together with modern peripheral 
components and devices such as: 

• magnetic bubble memories 

• charged coupled devices (CCD) 

• CRT interface devices 

Also provides a detailed 8086 instruction listing, plus program- 
ming examples using various addressing techniques. 
(0 471 06492-0) April 1980 approx. 275 pp. $20.00 (tent.) 

2. PERSONAL COMPUTING: Home, Professional, 
and Small Business Applications 

Daniel R. McGlynn 

Here's a non-technical survey of the expanding field of 
personal computing, covering the features, capabilities, and 
limitations of hardware and software commercially available 
today. This book offers criteria for selecting and purchasing the 
right system for you, and explains the various programming 
languages from BASIC to PASCAL and APL. Many charts, 
photographs, detailed glossary, appendices, and much more. 
(0 471 05380-5) 1979 263 pp. $9.95 paper 

3. ADVANCED ANALYSIS WITH THE SHARP 
5100 SCIENTIFIC CALCULATOR 

Jon M. Smith 

Written for all who use a Sharp 5100 or 5101. Emphasizes 
numerical methods that are particularly suited to the Sharp 
scientific calculator But the mathematical material is general 
enough so it can be used with any of the Sharp scientific 
machines or with small computers. Numerous examples show 
the new computing power available with a 5100 as a result of its 
unique algebraic capability. 
(0 47107753-4) 1979 132 pp. $6.95 paper 

4. WRITING INTERACTIVE COMPILERS 

AND INTERPRETERS 

P. J. Brown 

Here's a simple yet practical examination of how to implement 
an interactive programming language. Reviews how 
techniques and challenges differ from traditional non-interac- 
tive languages. Also balances material for planning /performing 
the task with underlying theoretical principles. No more than an 
ability to program and a familiarity with interactive working is 
assumed 
(0 471 27609-X) 1979 265 pp. $26.95 

New for the computer hobbyist. . . 

5. INTRODUCTION TO COMPUTER MUSIC 

Wayne Bateman 

(0 471 05266-3) March 1980 approx. 368 pp. $20.00 (tent.) 

WILEY-INTERSCIEHCE 

a division of John Wiley & Sons, Inc. 

605 Third Avenue 

New York, NY. 10016 

In Canada: 22 Worcester Road, Rexdale, Ontario 




I 



Please send the books indicated for 15-DAY FREE EXAMINATION. 

(Restricted to the continental U.S. and Canada.) 

Mail to: WILEY-INTERSCIENCE, P.O. Box 092, Somerset, N.J. 08873 

D Payment enclosed, plus sales tax. Wiley pays postage/ handling. We 

normally ship within 10 days. If shipment cannot be made within 90 days, 

payment will be refunded. 
D Bill me. D Bill firm or institution. 



I 



I 



D 1 . McGlynn (0 471 06492-0) 
$20.00 (tent.) 

□ 2. McGlynn (0 471 05380-5) 

$9.95 paper 
D 3. Smith (0 471 07753-4) 

$6.95 paper 

NAME 



□ 4. Brown (0 471 27609-X) 

$26.95 
D5. Bateman (0 471 05266-3) 

$20.00 (tent.) 



| AFFILIATION 
ADDRESS 



I 



CITY 



STATE/ZIP_ 



I 



| Prices subject to change without notice. 0-7648 I 



106 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 63 on inquiry card. 



7. ( ) 



8. ( ) 



9. ( ) 



. ( ) Ho! Such bugs 


d. 


''Simple. You 






and goblins in 




just wired 






my life! 




12 V into the 






Hamlet, 




5 V supply 






V/ii 




bus." 






. ( ) It is bright day 


e. 


"What voltage 






that brings 




are we getting 






forth the 




at the negative 






adder. 




lead of CI?" 






Julius 










Caesar, 










IV/iii 










. ( ) Something 


f. 


"I don't trust 






failing in him 




GOTO any 






that should 




more than you 







compare . . . 

Cymbeline, 
I/i 



Tellest thou 
me of 'ifs'? 

Richard III, 

Ill/iv 

You have 
done that you 
should be 
sorry for. 

Julius 

Caesar, 

IV/iii 

. . . And must 
we be divided? 

Richard II, 

V/i 



10. ( ) 



11. ( ) 



I will be 
correspondent 
to command. 

The 

Tempest, 

I/ii 

We but 
teach Bloody 
instructions, 
which, being 
taught, return 
To plague the 
inventor. 

Macbeth, 

I/vii 



do. My 
students get 
into trouble 
every time 
they use it." 

"I need a good 

text 

processor." 



"Only you 
and I will ever 
know what's 
in the read- 
only 
memory." 



"Are you tell- 
ing me I've 
loaded the 
wrong value 
in the accu- 
mulator to 
start the 
count?" 

"It's only a 
thousand 
bytes; we can 
always toggle 
them in by 
hand." 

"We're just 
not jumping 
from the test 
into the sub- 
routine." 




1RK DAM Fully Static 

I l/fl fl^^frf 300 nsec. for 4 Mhz. Z-80 



$265 



The Model 24-103 "STANDARD RAM" was designed for the 
smaller system which does not require bank select. It has been in 
production since late 1978 and has earned an enviable record for 
reliability. Although it does not have some of the options of the 
commercial cards listed below, its manufacturing quality has not 
been cut in any way. The card has DIP switch addressing — any 



continuous 16K on 4K boundaries. All inputs are buffered and it 
comes fully assembled, tested and guaranteed for one year. Prices 
for the card with 300 nsec. chips start at $265 and drop to $225 for 
quantities 5-9. Add $30 per board for 250 nsec. chips for faster 
CPU clock speeds. 



OTHER S-100 BUS STATIC RAMS 



16K PLUS 

This board has been sold primarily to dealers/system integrators 
during the past 20 months, it has become the reliability standard 
against which other boards are compared. It is fully static, 1 6K by 8 
bits, and a premium quality product featuring Schmitt triggers for all 
signal inputs. The board has been optimized for the Cromemco 
systems using output port 40H for its bank select. It also has start- 
up options which allow the board to come up in either the enabled 
or disabled condition. It is addressable by DIP switches in any 
continuous 16K on 4K boundaries. Prices with 300 nsec. chips (for 
4 Mhz. 2-80 systems): 1-4, $365; 5-9, $295. Add $30 per board for 
250 nsec. chips for faster CPU clock speeds. 



16K APEX 

This board is very similar to the PLUS card, it differs in that its 
bank select can use any of 256 output port addresses and it can be 
addressed on 1 6K boundaries only. Pricing is the same as for the 
PLUS. 



8/16 RAM 

This board was designed for the 1980s. It is configured as 16K by 
8 bits when accessed by an 8-bit processor and configured 8K by 
16 bits when used with a 16-bit processor. The configuration 
switching is automatic and is done by the card sampling the 
"Sixteen Request" signal sent out by all 16-bit CPU boards. The 
card has all the high noise immunity features of the PLUS and 
APEX as well as "extended addressing". Extended addressing is a 
replacement for bank select which makes use of a total of 24 
address lines to give a directly addressable range of over 16 
megabytes. (For older systems, a switch will cause the card to 
ignore the highest 8 address lines) This card ensures that your 
memory board purchase will not soon be obsoleted. It comes with 
200 nsec. memory chips only and is guaranteed to run without wait 
states with our 8086 CPU using an 8 Mhz. clock. Prices: 1-4, $445; 
5-9, $345. 

MEMORY CHIPS 

We have 4044 type 4K by 1 fully static memory chips available. 
See our ad in March BYTE for prices. 



ALL SCP BOARDS ARE FULLY ASSEMBLED, TESTED AND GUARANTEED ONE YEAR 



HOW TO ORDER 

There are two ways to go. You can check with your local dealer 
or order directly from the factory. Bank cards, personal checks, 
CODs okay. There is a 1 0-day return privilege on factory orders. All 
boards are guaranteed for one year — both parts and labor. 
Shipped prepaid by air from stock in US and Canada. Foreign 
purchases — must be prepaid in US funds. Also add $10 per board 
for overseas air shipment. 



^Seattle Computer Products, Inc. 

^-T-^ 1114 Industry Drive, Seattle, WA. 98188 
(206)575-1830 



Circle 64 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 107 



12. ( ) Words, words, 

words . . . 
Hamlet, 
Il/ii 

13. ( ) Why should I 

write this 
down, that's 
riveted, 

Screwed to my 
memory? 

Cymbeline, 

Il/ii 



14. ( ) 



15. ( ) 



O, that way 
madness lies; 
let me shun 
that." 

King Lear, 

Ill/iv 

Tis in my 
memory lock- 
ed, and you 
yourself shall 
keep the key 
of it. 

Hamlet, 

I/iii 



I. "If we can, 

let's cut down 
on the nested 
loops." 

m. "Sure, I know 

where the 
changes 
should be. I'll 
do the 

documentation 
later." 



n. "You have too 

much resis- 
tance tied into 
the LEDs on 
the front 
panel." 

o. 'The number- 

crunching is 
what's really 
eating up 
processor 
time." 



S-100, 6-PORT COMMUNICATIONS 

■HI ■ ■'' / 

liiiiii 




• INTERFACES MULTI TERMINALS, COMPUTERS, 
PRINTERS, MODEMS, ETC. 

• 2, 4, OR 6 CHANNELS; 2 OPTIONAL RTC'S 

• SELECTABLE I/O ADDRESS 

• PROGRAMMABLE SYNC. CHARACTERS 

• SYNC AND ASYNC 

• HARDWARE ERROR CHECKING (CRC 16, CCITT) 

• COMPLIES WITH: EIA RS-232C STANDARD; IEEE 
PROPOSED S 100 BUS STANDARD 

FULL 6-PORT CONFIGURATION (ASSEMBLED AND 
TESTED) $895.00 

For information, contact: Dianne Polk (703) 893-4330 x 100 

•■» Inco, Inc. 

7916 Westpark Drive ti McLean, Virginia 22102 



16. ( ) What error 


p. "Look — you 


leads must 


come up with 


err. 


the applica- 


Cymbeline, 


tions; 111 come 


V/v 


up with the 




circuits to do 




the job." 


17. ( ) . . . Dim 


q. "Come on 


register and 


over. We just 


notary of 


installed the 


shame .... 


arithmetic 


Rape of 


unit." 


Lucretia, 




1. 764 




18. ( ) Where great 


r. "You have to 


additions swell define it as 1 


us . . . 


signal-change 


Alls Well 


per second." 


that Ends 




Well, 




Il/ii 




19. ( ) Who hath 


s. "Why don't 


measured the 


we calculate 


ground? 


the reciprocal 


Henry V, 


just once, 


Ill/vii 


store it, and 




call it out to 




multiply with 




it whenever 




we need to 




later?" 


20. ( ) Power, unto 


t. "It ought to be 


itself most 


enough; it 


commendable 


puts out 30 A 


Coriolanus, 


at +5 V." 


IV/i 




Number of 


MicroShakespeare 


Correct Matches 


Rating 


20 


System thoroughly debugged 


17-19 


One or two minor glitches sti 




to be worked out. 


13-16 


Put it through an edit run. 


9-12 


Check the flowcharts. 


5-8 


Reset and restart. 


4 and fewer 


System crash for reasons 



unknown. I 



Technical Forum is a feature intended as an interactive dialog on 
the technology of personal computing. The subject matter is open- 
ended, and the intent is to foster discussion and communication 
among readers of BYTE. We ask that all correspondents supply their 
full names and addresses to be printed with their commentaries. We 
also ask that correspondents supply their telephone numbers, which 
will not be printed. 



108 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 65 on inquiry card. 



the electric pencil II 



fc) 1980 Michael Shrayer 



TM 



is now available 
for the TRS-80 Model II* Computer 

Standard Printer Version $275 
SERIAL DIABLO, QUME and NEC Printer versions $300 



Features 

CP/M COMPATIBLE ONLY 

Supports four disk drives 

Dynamic print formatting 

DIABLO and NEC printer packages 

Multi-column formatting in one pass 

Print value chaining 

Page-at-a-time scrolling 

Bidirectional multispeed scrolling controls 

Substystem with print value scoreboard 

Automatic word and record number tally 

Full margin control 

End-of-page control 

Non-printing text commenting 

Line and paragraph indentation 

Centering 

Underlining 

Bold face 




The Electric Pencil II is a Character Oriented Word 
Processing System. This means that text is entered as a 
string of continuous characters and is manipulated as 
such. This allows the user enormous freedom and ease in 
the movement and handling of text. Since line endings 
are never delineated, any number of characters, words, 
lines or paragraph may be inserted or deleted anywhere 
in the text. The entirety of the text shifts and opens up or 
closes as needed in full view of the user. The typing of 
carriage returns or word hyphenations is not required 
since lines of text are formatted automatically. 

As text is typed and the end of the line is reached, a 
partially completed word is shifted to the beginning of the 
following line. Whenever text is inserted or deleted, 
existing text is pushed down or pulled up in a wrap 
around fashion. Everything appears on the video display 
as it occurs, which eliminates guesswork. Text may be 
reviewed at will by variable speed scrolling both in the 
forward and reverse direction. By using 

the search or search and replace functions, 
any string of characters may be located 
and/ or replaced with any other string of 
characters as desired. 



•TRS-80 is a registered trademark of Radio Shack, a Tandy Corp. 

Demand a demo from your dealer! 



MICHAEL SHRAYER SOFTWARE, INC. 

1198 Los Robles Dr. 

Palm Springs, CA. 92262 

(714)323-1400 



,',v T y - 



Circle 67 on inquiry card. 



The Computer Factory 
Proudly Announces 

The New 

SUPRBRAIN 



INTE3TEC 

DMA 

SYSTEMS 




ONLY 
$3995 



Now with 800K of Disk Storage 
on 2 single-sided floppies 

More than an intelligent terminal, the Super- 
Brain outperforms many other systems costing 
three to five times as much. Endowed with a 
hefty amount of available software (BASIC, FOR- 
TRAN, COBOL), the SuperBrain is ready to take 
on your toughest assignment. You name it! 

FEATURES INCLUDE: 

• Two double track dual-density minifloppies 
with 800K bytes of disk storage 

• 64K RAM to handle even the most 
sophisticated programs 

• A CP/M Disk Operating System with a high- 
powered text editor, assembler and debugger 

• Twin Z80A's with 4MHZ Clock Frequency. One 
Z80A (the host processor) performs all pro- 
cessor and screen related functions. The 
second Z80A is "down-loaded" by the host to 
execute disk I/O. When not processing disk 
data, the second Z80 may be programmed by 
the host for other processor related functions. 

• Memory-mapped at 38 kilobaud. One Universal 
RS-232 asynchronous parallel interface and 
one synchronous/asynchronous RS-232 inter- 
face. Radio Shack TRS-80 compatible. 

For Word Processing and many smaller business 
applications the SUPERBRAIN is available with 
250K of disk storage and 32K for $2795 or 64K 
for $2995. HARD DiSK AVAILABLE SOON! 



(212)687-5000 

The COMPUTER FACTORY 

485 Lexington Avenue 750 Third Avenue New York. N.Y. 10017 

ORDER DESK 800-233-7318 < 46th st > 

DEALER INQUIRIES (212) 682-0346 



More GOTOXY 



George Bolthoff, 3417 S Plaza Dr, Apt 1, Santa Ana CA 92704 

I may be able to assist Carl Helmers with the problem 
expressed in his editorial 'The Era of Off-the-Shelf Per- 
sonal Computers Has Arrived" (January 1980 BYTE, 
pages 6 thru 10 and 93 thru 98). The problem concerned 
adapting the GOTOXY procedure used by the UCSD 
Pascal system to do cursor addressing in Mr Helmers' 
Computer Peripheral Corporation COPS-10 video ter- 
minal. 

I offer for Mr Helmer's use the routine shown here as 
listing 1 . It is faster than the one published in his editorial 
as listing 1 (page 96, January) because the UNIT WRITE 
procedure is taken out of the loops. The error checking 
can also be removed, if you are careful in your program- 
ming. The routine shown here as listing 2 works on my 
SOROC 120 terminal. ■ 



Listing 1: Pascal routine to place cursor at specified address on 
COPS-10 terminal 



PROGRAM FGGTOXV < X, V : I NTEGER > i 
CONST HOME-39; 

D0WN=19.; 
RCR0SS=12.; 
NULL=G.; 
MflX_SIZE-80j 
VflR 

SEND: PACKED RRRRVC 9. . MRX_SIZE3 OF 0. . 255.; 
INDEX: INTEGER.; 



BEGIN 

SENDC 9 3 : "HOME; {home the cursor, SOROC requires nulls 
SENDC 1 3 : =NULU SENDC 2 1 : =NULL, 
UNITWRITEC2, SEND, 3>i 

FOR INDEX :=9 TO V DO 

SENDC INDEX 1 : =RCROSS; 
UNITWRITEC2, SEND, V>; 
FOR INDEX: =9 TO X DO 

SENDC INDEX ] : =DOWN; 
UN I TWR I TE C 2, SEND, X > } 



Listing 2: Pascal routine to place cursor at specified address on 



SOROC 120. 






This aotoxi- Procedure works with the SOROC 129 terminal. 
PROCEDURE FGOTOXV < X, V : I NTEGER > ; 
CONST ESCAPE -2 7.f 
BEGIN 

WR I TECCHRC ESCAPED '«', V+32, X+32, CHRC9>, CHR<©>> 
END.; 



Answers to Micro Shakespeare Quiz: 




1-b 6-k 


11 -f 


16 -a 


2-r 7-i 


12 -g 


17 -n 


3-1 8-d 


13 -m 


18 -o 


4 - c 9 - s 


14 -j 


19 -e 


5 - q 10 - p 


15 -h 


20 -t 



110 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 









EUEEfTEEliTE 



LANGUAGES 



™ 



TQQLS 









iCHQCQIVIPLITJWG: 

flBVTE 

CONFERENCE 



EfTEElTEElTE 



June 16-17, 1980 
McGraw-Hill World Headquarters 

New York City 



Circle 66 on inquiry card. 



Who 

Should 

Attend 



Designers, systems analysts, imple- 
menters, and managers with an in- 
terest in holding down costs on their 
software projects. Fields with spe- 
cial applicability include electronics 
and electronics design, automated 
manufacturing, scientific instrumen- 
tation design, and aerospace con- 
trol systems. 



Tentative Schedule 



Circle 66 on inquiry card. 



June 16, 


1980 




8:00- 


9:00 A.M. 


9:00-10:00 A.M. 


10:00-10:30 A.M. 


10:30-12:00 P.M. 


12:00- 


1:30 


P.M. 


1:30- 


3:00 


P.M. 


3:00- 


3:15 


P.M. 


3:15- 


4:45 


P.M. 


4:45- 


5:15 


P.M. 


June 17, 


1980 




8:30-10:00 A.M. 


10:00-10:30 A.M. 


10:30-12:00 


P.M. 


12:00- 


1:30 


P.M. 


1:30- 


3:00 


P.M. 


3:00- 


4:00 P.M. 



REGISTRATION 

INTRODUCTION: Carl Helmers 

COFFEE INTERMISSION 

THE IMPORTANCE OF TOOLS: Fred Martin 

LUNCHEON 

THE PASCAL PERSPECTIVE: Peter Grogono 

COFFEE INTERMISSION 

AFTER PASCAL, WHAT?: Ken Bowles 

OPEN DISCUSSION 



TREES AND LISTS AS TOOLS: Henry Baker 

COFFEE INTERMISSION 

THE FORTH ALTERNATIVE: Charles Moore 

LUNCHEON 

WHAT IS C?: John Morse 

PANEL DISCUSSION: All speakers 



To attend the Languages and Tools for 
Microcomputing Conference, June 16- 
17, 1980, McGraw-Hill World Head- 
quarters in New York City, fill in the 
coupon, or write on your company let- 
terhead to: 

McGraw-Hill Conference & 
Exposition Center 

1221 Avenue of the Americas 
Room 3677 

New York, New York 1 0020 
Or call: 212/997-4930 

Please Print or Typo 

NAME 



Registration Fee: $485 



□ Payment enclosed (Make 
check payable to McGraw- 
Hill Conference & Exposition 
Center) 

□ Please bill me directly 

□ Please bill company (Payment 
due prior to Conference) 

□ This confirms my phone reser- 
vation 



TITl F 


Last Name 


First Name 




COMPANY 


ADORFSS 


niTY 




QTATF 


7IP 


TELEPHONE ( 


i 






REGISTRANT'S SIGNATURE 









Hotel Reservations: The New York Hilton (212-586-7000) is holding a block of 
rooms up to three weeks prior to the Conference. For reservations, contact the hotel 
directly. Please be sure to identify the title and dates of the Conference for preferen- 
tial treatment. 

Cancellation Liability: In the event of cancellation of the Conference for any rea- 
son, McGraw-Hill's liability is limited to the return of the registration fee. 

Cancellation Policy: Confirmed registrants who cancel within FOURTEEN BUSI- 
NESS DAYS of the Conference are subject to a $100 service charge. Cancellation 
must be received in writing. Confirmed registrants who fail to attend and do not can- 
cel prior to the Conference are liable for the entire registration fee. You may, if you 
wish, send a substitute. 



Circle 66 on inquiry card. 



EltllllllllllllllllllllHlllHHIllIllllltllfillillillllfilJ 



. 



BYTE News . . . . 



Eiiiiaifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiuiiij 



NEW DEVELOPMENTS FROM COMMODORE: At a recent private showing during the Winter Con- 
sumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, Nevada, Commodore Business Machines revealed some im- 
pressive work in progress. Heading the list was the prototype of the TOI ( u The Other Intellect") col- 
or computer. Aimed at the low-end market, the TOI is designed to interface with your home color 
television set. The displayed image will feature 16 colors, 160 by 192 resolution (with three colors in 
the high-resolution mode), Microsoft BASIC, and a standard keyboard. The price could be under 
$700. Other devices included the Commodore CBM computer outfitted with a Shugart SA-200 
SVi-inch floppy-disk drive (still under development). The SA-200 is a very low-cost drive that is less 
than 1 inch high, and employs an electromechanical track- to- track seeking mechanism for the head 
that is somewhat slower than conventional drive mechanisms. Commodore is also working on a Plato- 
like touch panel and a speech synthesizer (from Votrax). Also on hand was a prototype Memorex 
model 101 8- inch hard-disk drive and interface. Commodore stressed that all of these products were 
still under development, and that not all of them would necessarily get to the marketplace. 

ATARI AND NAB TAKE FCC TO COURT: Atari Inc and the National Association of Broadcasters 
(NAB) have gone to the United States Court of Appeals asking that the Federal Communications 
Commission (FCC) review its recent decision allowing Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI) to sell its 
TI-900 stand-alone radio frequency (RF) modulator, which will allow a TI home computer to work 
with a standard color television set. 

Late last year the FCC altered its rules (see BYTE News, January 1980) and granted TI a waiver. 
Atari asked the FCC to delay the effective date of the waiver until appropriate technical standards 
were developed. The FCC rejected Atari's request. Tandy Corporation and Apple Computer Com- 
pany made similar requests. The requests claimed that the FCC decision allowed TI to circumvent 
the FCC's rulemaking. 

The NAB is concerned with the interference that modulators cause on television and radio recep- 
tion. The NAB is also challenging the FCC's radiation limits as being too high. This could cause 
interference, particularly in weak television signal areas. In addition to interference caused by per- 
sonal computers, the NAB is concerned with interference from computer games and video recorders. 

NEW HIGH-SPEED COMMUNICATIONS BUS: Xerox Corporation recently made a public announce- 
ment of a new concept of processor-to-processor communications intended for an office environ- 
ment. This novel concept is called "Ethernet," and is a result of some of the work being done in their 
research labs. In this concept, a single coaxial cable is used as a high-speed communications bus 
between all processors; communication protocol is handled through software or software sup- 
plemented by special-purpose hardware. Rumor has it that an Ethernet processor is now being 
developed by some form of joint arrangement between Xerox and Intel. 

NEW 16-BIT PROCESSOR CARDS TO BE INTRODUCED: Several manufacturers will soon introduce 
Z8000 and 68000 printed circuit cards for S-100 and SS-50 bus systems. Ithaca Intersystems Incor- 
porated will shortly commence shipping its Z8000 processor card for S-100-based systems. They also 
have a 68000 prototype processor card running on the S-100 bus, but they do not plan to manufac- 
ture the card at this time. Gimix Incorporated does plan to manufacture a 68000 processor card for 
SS-50 bus systems. Gimix plans to use a multiplexed approach so that no reworking of the SS-50 
mainframe will be required. 

CAN DEPARTMENT STORES SELL PERSONAL COMPUTERS? The answer to this question from the 
stores, at this point, is a noncommittal "yes." Sears Roebuck and Montgomery Ward (MW) started 
test marketing personal computer systems last November. MW attempted selling several Ohio Scien- 
tific and Interact Electronics systems in a few selected stores. Although at the time of this writing not 
all results were in, the opinion was that the test, although not meeting with an enthusiastic response, 
developed sufficient sales to merit continued test marketing. Most system sales were to small 
businesses rather than consumers. The systems were being used for applications such as inventory 
control, word processing, and record keeping. 

Sears Roebuck also was guarded in its appraisal of the test marketing of the Atari system through 
its Christmas catalog and selected stores. Although sales have not increased dramatically, they are 
sufficient for Sears to continue marketing tests. 



I: 



April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 115 



IBM INDICATES NEW TECHNOLOGY COMING: New computer technologies from IBM will be used 
in computer systems available at the end of this decade. These systems will employ superconducting 
quantum interference devices (SQUIDs) using high-speed (0.06 nanosecond) Josephson- junction 
logic with 0.5 nanosecond programmable memory with up to 1000 connections between chip and 
carrier. 

IBM also plans super-density logic cards (0.6 by 1.2 inch) with more than 300 "micro-pins" per 
card and up to 2500 printed wiring channels per inch. This will mean up to 10 times the density and 
100 times the performance of the new IBM 4300-series systems. IBM will be able to build a processor 
with an internal performance of 70 million instructions per second (MIPS), 32 K byte cache memory, 
and 16 megabyte main memory in a 6-inch cube, Josephson-juuction logic requires immersion in a 
liquid helium bath for proper operation. 

RADIO SHACK SALES OVER $100 M FOR 79: Radio Shack's computer equipment sales were over 
$100 million for last year> according to Tandy. Furthermore/ almost 150,000 TRS-80s have been 
sold. Industry experts estimate that Radio Shack has about 35% of the personal computer market. 
Sales of the TRS-80 appear to be leveling off; Radio Shack attributes this to market saturation. 
Radio Shack started shipping TRS-80 Model II systems to users in October/ and by year's end had 
shipped about 1000 systems. Radio Shack chief Lewis Kornf eld anticipates selling 15,000 of these 
systems in 1980. Radio Shack plans to introduce a color-display replacement for the TRS-80 in the 
coming year, hoping to rejuvenate the sales curve — but normal production delays may affect the 
timetable. 

S-100 MAGAZINE APPEARS: A magazine specifically oriented to S-100 systems users has begun 
publication. It features articles on S-100 hardware, CP/M (trademark of Digital Research), and 
Pascal software. A sample copy is $2 and can be obtained by writing S-100 Microsystems, POB 
1192, Mountainside NI 07082. 

MICROPROCESSOR INVENTOR HONORED: Dr Marcian E Hof f has received recognition for the 
development of the microprocessor. Dr Hoff , of Intel Corporation, received the Stuart Ballantine 
Medal as an electronics pioneer. Shortly after joining Intel in 1969, he first proposed the 
microprocessor architecture which led to the development of the 4004, first produced in 1971. Dr 
Hoff also worked on the 1103, the first high-density programmable memory integrated circuit (1024 
bits), and then Dr Hoff worked on analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog integrated circuits at 
Intel. 

"ROBOTS" DO SALES PROMOTION: A new industry has developed in this country: using "robots" 
for sales promotion. These robots, which look very much like R2-D2 of Star Wars, are being used at 
public events promoting products like Coca-Cola, bank openings, and even the US Olympics 
organization. 

One such maker is Promotional Concepts Incorporated of Atlanta, Georgia. This year they expect 
to make about 300 "robots," which they prefer to call "androids." Most will be 4 feet tall, weigh 90 
pounds, and will be decorated to appear as Coke cans with arms, legs, and a dome. They move on 
three legs, talk, sing, whistle, rotate their domes, and move around. Power comes from an 
automobile battery, while voice and motion are controlled by a human operator via remote radio 
control and wireless microphone. The robots also have an internal tape player to supply music, 
beeps, and sounds. You can buy an "android" for $6500, or it can be rented for specific events. 

COMPUTER FLEA MARKET COVERS 5 ACRES: The largest and oldest computer equipment flea 
market will be held this year on April 19 and 20 as a part of the Trenton Computer Festival (TCF) at 
Trenton State College, Trenton, New Jersey. The fifth annual flea market is jointly sponsored by 
three computer clubs — Amateur Computer Group of New Jersey, the Philadelphia Area Computer 
Society, and the Trenton State Computer Club. Hobbyists come from all across the northeastern 
USA to attend the event, where bargains on surplus gear are in abundance. Both flea market spots 
and admission are $5. There are also indoor commercial exhibitors, forums, talks, seminars, and 
user-group meetings. For information call (609) 771-2478 or write TCF, Trenton State College, 
Trenton NJ 08625. 

NASA SHOPPING FOR A SUPERCOMPUTER: The National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
(NASA) is looking for a supercomputer — a numerical aerodynamic simulator — to perform wind- 
tunnel simulation. They have set a minimum sustained-performance level of one billion floating-point 
operations per second, or one "gigaflop." This is 30 to 40 times greater than the performance of 
machines such as the Cray- 1 and Control Data Corporation's Cyber 203, which are presently con- 
sidered the most powerful computers in production. 






116 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



64 K EPROMS AVAILABLE BY MID- YEAR: 64 K EPROMs (erasable programmable readonly 
memory), organized as 8 K by 8 bytes, are currently being sampled by Motorola customers. Produc- 
tion quantities are expected to be shipped by the end of June. Motorola has put the 64 K EPROM in 
a 24-pin package by multiplexing the program supply and chip-enable signals on the same pin. Intel 
and Texas Instruments are believed to be using 28-pin packages for their 64 K EPROMs. 

Meanwhile the supply of 2708 EPROMs (1 K by 8 bits) has caught up to demand and prices are 
now in the $6 range. The demand for 2716 EPROMs (2 K by 8 bits) is still very strong, and hence 
the devices are selling in the $20 to $24 range. 

TI is currently the largest manufacturer of EPROMs with about 38% of sales. Intel is second with 
29%, Fujitsu and Hitachi share third place with 8% each. 

RANDOM RUMORS: At least one printer manufacturer will soon introduce a high-density, dot- 
matrix printer similar to the Sanders Technology Media 12/7 printer (see BYTE News, February 
1979). It will sell for less than $2000 in original equipment manufacturer's (OEM) quantities and it 
will include a sheet feeder. Furthermore, they are promising a printing speed of 400 characters per 
second (cps) in a single-dot-density mode and 150 cps in a word processing mode. Like the Sanders 
Technology printer, the word processing mode will use overlapping dots to produce fully formed 
characters. . . .It is rumored that Intel will start sampling a 16 K static programmable memory in the 
third or fourth quarter of this year. . . .Sinclair Radionics, of Great Britain, may soon start sampling 
its flat cathode- ray tubes (CRTs). The Sinclair CRT has an electron gun that is parallel to the 
screen. . . .Disk drive designers are starting to talk about the 20 megabyte floppy disk and 200 
megabyte 8-inch Winchester disk. These units are in the product planning stages now at a number 
of manufacturers. . . .Rumor has it that Burroughs is about to introduce a 5 megabyte 8-inch floppy- 
disk drive. 

RANDOM NEWS BITS: Shugart Associates' SA4S0 5W-inch Minifloppy™ with 500 K byte capacity 
may finally get into full production by late summer. Shugart experienced problems with its previous 
head designs which had a high incidence of media scoring. Shugart will use a new head design 
developed by and licensed from Tandon Magnetics Corporation. The design employs a fixed "but- 
ton" head on one side of the disk and a gimballed head on a swing arm on the other side. The 
original Shugart design used two gimballed heads. Shugart hopes to be producing at least 2000 
drives per month by late summer. . . .Dataland of Denmark has introduced a computer system to 
convert a composer's music into a printed score. A special piano keyboard is used to "play in" the 
voices in the score. The computer processes the input, and sends output to a digital plotter that 
creates the finished score ready for printing. . . .Intel is now producing 8 MHz 8086 16-bit 
microprocessors. The previous top speed was 5 MHz. . . .The Department of Defense (DOD) predicts 
that software-preparation costs will increase from the present $40 per line to $65 per line by 1984. 
Thus software preparation will be 8% of the total US defense budget — rising from $6.6 billion in 
1979 to $10.5 billion in 1984. . . .Texas Instruments has introduced an alphanumeric display-driver 
integrated circuit (AC5947) that accepts ASCII character input and drives an 18-segment display 
.... Motorola has introduced opto-isolators with 7.5 kV isolation ratings . „". . . Castle Toy Com- 
pany is selling a "Superstar Guitar" with a built-in microprocessor. . . .William A Davis, Castro 
Valley, California, has announced a navigational computer that calculates longitude and latitude 
positions even if the navigator has no idea where he is. It also can calculate distances between any 
two points on earth and gives true bearing between them. It is accurate to 1/I0th of a nautical mile. 

MAIL: I receive a large number of letters each month, as result of this column. If you write to me and wish a response, please 
enclose a self-addressed, stamped envelope. 

Sol Libes 

Amateur Computer Group of New Jersey 

(ACG-NJ) 

1776 Raritan Rd 

Scotch Plains NJ 07076 




April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 117 



Calculating Filter Capacitor 

Values for Computer 

Power Supplies 



John Thomas 
c/o Hewlett-Packard 

5070 Directors Row 
Memphis TN 38131 



STEP-DOWN 
TRANSFORMER 



O — 

120 VAC 

O — 



L 



LINE 
GROUND 




Ih 



1h 



£ 



lY 



BRIDGE 
RECTIFIER 



CAPACITOR 



VOLTAGE 
REGULATOR 



T 



VOUT 

-o 



Figure 1: Schematic diagram of a typical power supply circuit 
containing a step-down transformer, a full-wave bridge rec- 
tifier, a filter capacitor, and an integrated circuit voltage 
regulator. 



Typically there are four functional elements in a 
homebrew computer power supply. These elements are: 
the transformer, full-wave bridge rectifier, filter 
capacitor, and one or more integrated circuit voltage 
regulators as shown in figure 1. Experience has shown 
that most homebrewers have little difficulty in choosing 
any of the components, except when it comes to finding 
the value of the filter capacitor. Then they must resort to 
methods of multiple approximation, charts and graphs, 
or the better known and widely used method of trial and 
error. The following information will simplify the pro- 
cess of finding the smallest value of capacitance that will 
work in the circuit. 

Equation 1 gives the formula used to calculate the 
capacitor value: 



STEP-DOWN 
TRANSFORMER 



m la 




[ | + -j* arcsin (^i) ] 



v - v 

v max * m 



(1) 



where: 



/ = 

V = 

v max 



OUT 



Figure 2: Schematic diagram of the power supply without 
capacitor or regulator. This circuit produces the output voltage 
waveform shown in figure 3. 

118 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



V min m 



the power-line frequency in hertz 
the value of the peak positive 
voltage applied to the capacitor 
under the worst conditions (eg: 
highest operating temperature, 
greatest current, lowest power-line 
voltage) 

the absolute minimum voltage 
allowable at the input of the voltage 
regulator 




ONLY$1195 



11 Megabyte I 
Hard Disk L 
For Apple | 
$4995 

APPLE II PLUS 

A complete self-contained computer system with APPLESOFT floating point 
BASIC in ROM, full ASC 1 1 keyboard in a light weight molded carrying case. 

Features Include: 

• auto-start ROM • Hi-Res graphics and 15 color video output. 

• Expandable to 48K. 

Supertalker $279 Micromodem $379 

Disk 595 Superterm {24 x 80) 395 

Add-on Disk 495 Speechlab 229 

Pascal Card 495 Communication Card .... 225 

Business Software 625 Modem 200 

Monitor . . 159 Graphics Printer 595 

Printer Card 180 Graphics Tablet 795 



Only $949 



Only $529 

..,....'"■ -■ tm«imi — m 




ATARI 800 
Personal computer 



ATARI 400 
Personal Computer 




TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 

TI-99/4 

HOME COMPUTER 




THE 

IMAGINATION MACHINE by APF 
PRICE BREAK ALL 
FOR ONLY $595 

Includes all these Features: 

• 1 4K Disk Basic (up to 4 disks) • 9K User RAM 
expandable to17K* 8 Colors Hi-Res. (256 x 192) 1 
Music Synthesizer • Digital Cassette with 
Microphone & Speaker • Built in RF Modulator 

• Full sized Keyboard* 2 Joysticks A Numeric Pads. 



DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM -Six modules 
comprising 48 K of programming allows you to: create, 
edit, delete, display, print, sort, merge, etc., etc.— databases 
of up to 10,000 records. Printer routines included. 60 Pages 
of documentation for16-32K PET and 2040 Dual Disk... 

Cost $125 
K RAM — Keyed Random Access Method— The new, 
ultra-fast access method for the PET Disk, provides keyed 
retrieval/storage of data, in either direct or sequential 
mode, by either full or partial key values. Written in 6502 
machine code. Eliminates the need for "Sort" routines.. . 

Cost $79.95 




Anderson jacobson Parallel 

B41 I/O Terminal Ideal for $11 30 
word processing and _ . . 
small businesses. o6N3l 

ASCII Code $1230 

15 CPS Printout * 
High Quality Selectric Printing 
Reliable heavy duty mechanism 
Completely Refurbished by A.J 
Service in 15 Major Cities 




•Z-80 Controlled 
•Up to 198 Columns 
30 CPS • Reverse 
Print • Electronic 
^^^ ^^^ -^^^^ -. ^_^_ J Digital Display 
XYMEC iB——l—IB— * BBBIHH * ; Multi-Lingual 

1000 with QUADRA-PITCH $2495 ' Automati 
10, 12, 15 Pitch & Proportional Spacing 

The XYMEC HY-Q 1000 is "Tomorrow's Printer" - with vir 
tually every advancement built in as standard. No other 
options are required. Its versatility matches your output 
format - and - it can be used as an off-line typewriter 



led I k 

alumnsl B^ ~ 

leverse I ^^^//w 

lay *^l K 
ual ^^^ 
tomatic v ^ 
recall W 



Only $1 095 includes 13"Color Monitorl 



Over 1000 software tapes, books, disks, 
on display. Come in and browse. 



RADIO SHACK • PET • SORCERER • 
APPLE • COMPUCOLOR •ETC. 



PRINTERS • PRINTERS • PRINTERS 



The COMPUTER FACTORY'S extensive Centronics 779 .. . $1095 

inventory and wide selection of computer Centronics 730 . . , 795 

printers assures you of finding the printer _ . „_ e 

best suited tor your needs and Trendcom 100 . 375 

specifications The following printers work" a P er ' '9 er 440 . . 1095 

well with all known personal computers Xerox 1740 2895 



FREE 

$35 of Software 
with purchase 
of any computer 
on this page. 



Min Credit Card 
Order $75 

Open 
Mon.-Fri. 

10-6 
Sat. 10-4 



N Y residpnts add 8% sales tax 
• Same day shipment on prepaid and 
credit card orders • Add S5 shipping 
for computers S3 for hoards 
$1 each cassette tape. 



TO ORDER CALL (212) 687-5000 



(46th St.) 



Tl%*% /^^AUDI ITCD CA^TADV 485 Lexington Avenue 750 Third Avenue New York. N.Y. 10017 
I lie 0\ylVI"U I Cn rMV/ I \Jr\ Y Foreign order desk - Telex 640Ubb 



BYTE April 1980 119 



20.0._ 




20. 00 



0.00 



8.33 16.7 

T i me ( msec ) 



25.0 



Figure 3: The voltage waveform produced by the circuit of 
figure 2. The output of the rectifier stage of the supply is a 
pulsating current with only positive polarity. 



''max 



(-min 



the maximum average current 
drawn during any one-quarter seg- 
ment of a power-line cycle 
the capacitance in farads; this is the 
minimum value that will meet the 
V min specification 



Those who are familiar with the above symbols and the 
effects of the circuit elements on the corresponding com- 
ponent values need read no further. However, anyone 
wishing to have a better description of V max , V min , i max , 
and how to choose appropriate values, should read on. 

Where the Formula Comes From 

If the capacitor and voltage regulator are removed 
from the power supply in figure 1, the circuit of figure 2 
remains. The circuit has an output-voltage waveform 
resembling that shown in figure 3. The waveform pro- 
duced emulates the absolute value function of a sine 
curve. With the capacitor and regulator replaced so that 
the circuit is once again as shown in figure 1, the voltage 
across the capacitor will appear as shown in figure 4. 
Thus the capacitor has a smoothing-out effect on the 
waveform in figure 3. As shown in figure 4, the voltage 
across the capacitor follows the waveform of figure 3 
while charging. When discharging, the voltage falls down 
to a value V min . This value is the lowest voltage permissi- 
ble as input into the voltage regulator, such that the 
regulator can still function properly. V min should typical- 
ly be about 2 V greater than the regulator-ouput voltage. 

The capacitor formula is derived using the definition of 
capacitance found in almost any book on network 
theory: 



dt 

where: i = current in amperes 

v — voltage in volts 
t = time in seconds 

and: C — capacitance in farads 

120 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



(2) 




Figure 4: Addition of a capacitor to the circuit has this effect on 
the output waveform. The capacitor smooths the humps in the 
waveform; an almost constant DC voltage with a small fluctua- 
tion (ripple) is presented to the voltage regulator stage of the 
power supply. 

Figures 3 and 4 were produced on a Hewlett-Packard 9872A 
plotter controlled by a Hewlett-Packard 9845 'A desk-top com- 
puter. 



This equation may be simplified by assuming that the 
current, i, is constant. This assumed value of current is 
the sum of currents drawn by the computer and the 
voltage regulator. If the current is not constant, it must 
be equal to the maximum average current drawn during 
any one-quarter segment of a power-line cycle. Once the 
current i is chosen and assumed constant, equation 2 can 
be simplified to give equation 3: 



C = z - 



v r 



(3) 



where: 



imax — the maximum average current 
discharging the capacitor during 
any one-quarter segment of a 
power-line cycle, 
t d = the capacitor discharge time (see 
figure 4), and 

V r = the ripple voltage, V max - V min 



The time t d over which the capacitor discharges can be 
broken into two parts, t t and t 2 , as shown in figure 4. The 
time t x is the interval in which the sine waveform is 
decreasing, and is equal to one-fourth of the power-line 
frequency period. The time r 2 is the time required for the 
sine wave to go from to V mi „. For a power-line fre- 
quency of f, the total capacitor discharge time, t d , is given 
by equation 4: 

U - h + f 2 



1_ 

4/ 



h - t: 



ti = 



2Tf 



arcsm 



( * mtn \ 



By Netronlcs 

ASCII/BAUDOT, 
STAND ALONE 




Computer 3]=^ 



Terminal 



The Netronics ASCII/BAUDOT Computer Terminal Kit is a 
microprocessor-controlled, stand alone keyboard/ terminal 
requring no computer memory or software. It allows the use of 
either a 64, or 32 character by 16 line professional display for- 
mat with selectable baud rate, RS232-C or 20 ma. output, full 
cursor control and 75 ohm composite video output. 

The keyboard follows the standard typewriter configuration 
and generates the entire 128 character ASCII upper/lower case 
set with 96 printable characters. Features include onboard 
regulators, selectable parity, shift lock key, alpha lock jumper, 
a drive capability of one TTY load, and the ability to mate 
directly with almost any computer, including the new Ex- 
plorer/85 and ELF products by Netronics. 

The Computer Terminal requires no I/O mapping and 
includes Ik of memory, character generator, 2 key rollover, 
processor controlled cursor control, parallel ASCII/BAUDOT 
to serial conversion and serial to video processing — fully 
crystal controlled for superb accuracy. PC boards are the 
highest quality glass epoxy for the ultimate in reliability and 
long life. 

VIDEO DISPLAY SPECIFICATIONS 

The heart of the Netronics Computer Terminal is the micro- 
processor-controlled Netronics Video Display Board (VID) 
which allows the terminal to utilize either a parallel ASCII or 
BAUDOT signal source. The VID converts the parallel data to 
serial data which is then formatted to either RS232-C or 20 ma. 
current loop output, which can be connected to the serial I/O 
on your computer or other interface, i.e., Modem, 

When connected to a computer, the computer must echo the 
character received. This data is received by the VID which 
processes the information, converting to data to video suitable 
to be displayed on a TV set {using an RF modulator) or on a 
video monitor. The VID generates the cursor, horizontal and 
vertical sync pulses and performs the housekeeping relative to 
which character and where it is to be displayed on the screen. 
Video Output: 1.5 P/ Pinto 75 ohm (EI A RS-170) • Baud Rate: 
110 and 300 ASCII • Outputs: RS232-C or 20 ma. current loop 
• ASCII Character Set: 128 printable characters— 



! , «U , ()**,-./0123456789: ;<*>? 

WBC0O : GHi3KLrt«P«STWUXVZ[\r. 
x abcdef9hiiklAftopqrst«wx¥Z<i>*I 



RSTUV WX YZ-?:*3$*().,9014!57;2/68» 
Cursor Modes: Home, Backspace, Horizontal Tab, Line Feed, 
Vertical Tab, Carriage Return. Two special cursor sequences 
are provided for absolute and relative X- Y cursor addressing • 
Cursor Control: Erase, End of Line, Erase of Screen, Form 
Feed, Delete • Monitor Operation: 50 or 60Hz (jumper 
selectable. 

Continental U.S.A. Credit Card Buyers Outside Connecticut 

CALL TOLL FREE 800-243-7428 

mmt __ To Order From Connecticut Or For Technical ^ m M 
r ™ Assistance, Etc. Call (203) 354-9375 1 

I Netronics R&D Ltd., Dept. PE-9 
333 Litchfield Road, New Milford. CT 06776 
I Please send the items checked below— 

ID Netronics Stand Alone ASCII Keyboard /Computer 
Terminal Kit, $149.95 plus S3 .00 postage & handling. 
ID Deluxe Steel Cabinet for Netronics Keyboard/Termi- 
nal In Blue/Black Finish, $19.95 plus $2.50 postage 
I and handling. 
□ Video Display Board Kit alone (less keyboard), $89.95 

I plus $3 postage & handling. 
D 12" Video Monitor (10 MHz bandwidth) fully assem- 
I bled and tested, $139.95 plus $5 postage and handling. 
□ RF Modulator Kit (to use your TV set for a monitor), 

I $8. 95 postpaid. 
D 5 amp Power Supply Kit In Deluxe Steel Cabinet 
I(±8VDC @ 5 amps, plus 6-8 VAC), $39.95 plus $2 
postage & handling. 
I Total Enclosed (Conn. res. add sales tax) $ 
By- 

ID Personal Check D Cashiers Check/Money Order 
□ Visa □ Master Charge (Bank I ) 

I Acct. K 



. Signature. 

1 Print 

I Name 



_£xp. Date . 



City_ 



1 - 

Wm iM mm D Send Me More Information mm mm J 



-Zip 



Start Computing For Just $129.95 With An 
8085-Based Professional Computer Kit— 

Explorer/85 

100% compatible with alt 8080A and 
8085 software & development tools! 

No matter what your future computing plans may 
be, Level "A "— at $ 1 29.95— is your starting point. 

Starting at just $129.95 for a Level "A" operating system, 
you can now build the exact computer you want. Explorer/ 85 
can be your beginner's system, OEM controller, or IBM- 
formatted 8" disk smalt business system. . .yet you're never 
forced to spend a penny for a component or feature you don V 
want and you can expand in small, affordable steps! 

Now, for just $129.95, you can own the first level of a fully 
expandable computer with professional capabilities— a com- 
puter which features the advanced Intel 8085 cpu, thereby 
giving you immediate access to all software and development 
tools that exist for both the 8085 and its 8080A predecessor 
(they are 100% software compatible)— a computer which 
features onboard S-100 bus expansion— plus instant conver- 
sion to mass storage disk memory with either 5-1/4" diskettes 
or standard IBM- formatted 8" disks. 

For just $129.95 (plus the cost of a power supply, keyboard/ 
terminal and RF modulator, if you don't have them already), 
Explorer/85 lets you begin computing on a significant level. . . 
applying the principles discussed in leading computer maga- 
zines. . .developing "state of the art" computer solutions for 
both the industrial and leisure environment. 

Level "A" Specifications 

Explorer/85's Level "A" system features the advanced Intel 
8085 cpu, an 8355 ROM with 2k deluxe monitor/operating 
system, and an 8155 ROM -I/O— all on a single motherboard 
with room for RAM/ROM/PROM/EPROM and S-100 ex- 
pansion, plus generous prototyping space. 

(Level "A" makes a perfect OEM controller for industrial 
applications and is available in a special Hex Version which 
can be programmed using 
the Netronics Hex Keypad/ 
Display.) 

PC Board: glass epoxy, plated 
through holes with solder mask 
• I/O: provisions for 25-pin 
(DB25) connector for terminal 
serial I/O, which can also sup- 
port a paper tape reader 
. . . provision for 24-pin DIP 
socket for hex keyboard/dis- 
play . . . cassette tape recorder in- 
put ... cassette tape recorder output. . .cassette tape control 
output . . . speaker output . . . LED output indicator on SOD 
(serial output) line. . .printer interface (less drivers). . .total of 
four 8-bit plus one 6-bit I/O ports •Crystal Frequency: 6.144 
MHz • Control Switches: reset and user (RST 7.5) 
interrupt. . .additional provisions for RST 5.5, 6.5 and TRAP 
interrupts onboard • Counter/Timer: programmable, 14-bit 
binary • System RAM: 256 bytes located at F800, ideal for 
smaller systems and for use as an isolated stack area in 
expanded systems. . . RAM expandable to 64k via S-100 bus or 
4K on motherboard. 

System Monitor (Terminal Version): 2k bytes of deluxe 
system monitor ROM located at F000 leaving 0000 free for user 
RAM/ROM. Features include tape load with labeling . . .tape 
dump with labeling. . .examine/change contents of memory 
. . . insert data . . . warm start . . . examine and change all 
registers. . . single step with register display at each break point, 
a debugging/training feature... go to execution address... 
move blocks of memory from one location to another. . .fill 
blocks of memory with a constant . . . display blocks of memory 
. . .automatic baud rate selection . . , variable display line length 
control (1-255 characters/line). . .channelized I/O monitor 
routine with 8-bit parallel output for high speed printer. . . 
serial console in and console out channel so that monitor can 
communicate with I/O ports. 

System Monitor (Hex Version): Tape load with labeling. . . 
tape dump with labeling. . .examine/change contents of mem- 
ory... insert data... warm start ... examine and change all 

Netronics 
333 Litchfield 



By Hetrortlos 




Level "A" at $129.95 is a 
complete operating system, 
perfect for beginners, hob- 
biests, or industrial con- 
troller use. 






Explorer/85 with 
"C" card cage. 



I <tl 



tR&DLuT, BepntFlfl" 
field Road. New Milford, C 



registers. . .single step with register display at each break point 
.. .go to execution address. Level "A" in the Hex Version 
makes a perfect controller for industrial applications and can 
be programmed using the Netronics Hex Keypad/Display. 

Hex Keypad/Display 
Specifications 

Calculator type keypad with 24 
system defined and 16 user 
defined keys. 6 digit calculator 
type display which displays full 
address plus data as well as 
Hex Keypad /Display. regi ster and stat us in formation . 

Level "B" Specifications 

Level' *B" provides the S-100 signals plus buffers/drivers to 
support up to six S-100 bus boards and includes: address 
decoding for onboard 4k RAM expansion select-able in 
4k blocks. . .address decoding for onboard 8k EPROM expan- 
sion selectable in 8k blocks. . .address and data bus drivers for 
onboard expansion . . . wait state generator Oumper selectable), 
to allow the use of slower memories . . . two separate 5 volt 
regulators. 

Level "C" Specifications 

Level "C" expands Explorer's 
motherboard with a card cage, 
allowing you to plug up to six 
S-100 cards directly into the 
motherboard. Both cage and 
cards are neatly contained inside 
Explorer's deluxe steel cabinet. 
Level "C" includes a sheet metal superstructure, a 5-card gold 
plated S-100 extension PC board which plugs into the mother- 
board. Just add required number of S-100 connectors 

Level "D" Specifications 

Level "D" provides 4k or RAM, power supply regulation, 
filtering decoupling components and sockets to expand your 
Explorer/85 memory to 4k (plus the original 256 bytes located 
in the 8 155 A). The static RAM can be located anywhere from 
0000 to EFFF in 4k blocks. 

Level "E" Specifications 

Level **E" adds sockets for 8k of EPROM to use the popular 
Intel 2716 or the Tl 2516. It includes all sockets, power supply 
regulator, heat sink, filtering and decoupling components. 
Sockets may also be used for soon to be available RAM IC's 
(allowing for up to 12k of onboard RAM). 

Order A Coordinated 
Explorer/85 Applications Pak! 

Experimenters Pak (SAVE $12.50)— Buy Level "A" and Hex 
Keypad/ Display for $199.90 and get FREE Intel 8085 user's 
manual plus FREE postage & handling! 
Student Pak (SAVE $24.45)— Buy Level "A," ASCII Key- 
board/Computer Terminal, and Power Supply for $319.85 and 
get FREE RF Modulator plus FREE Intel 8085 user's manual 
plus FREE postage & handling! 

Engineering Pak (SAVE $41.00)— Buy Levels "A," "B," 
"C," "D," and "E" with Power Supply, ASCII Keyboard/ 
Computer Terminal, and six S-100 Bus Connectors for $514.75 
and get 10 FREE computer grade cassette tapes plus FREE 
8085 user's manual plus FREE postage & handling! 
Business Pak (SAVE $89.95)-Buy Explorer/85 Levels "A," 
**B," and "C" (with cabinet), Power Supply, ASCII Key- 
board/Computer Terminal (with cabinet), 16k RAM, 12" 
Video Monitor, North Star 5-1/4" Disk Drive (includes North 
Star BASIC) with power supply and cabinet, all for just 
$1599.40 and get 10 FREE 5-1/4" minidiskettes ($49.95 value) 
plus FREE 8085 user's manual plus FREE postage & handling! 

Continental U.S.A. Credit Card Buyers Outside Connecticut 

CALL TOLL FREE 800-243-7428 

— To Order From Connecticut Or For Technical __ 
wm ™ Assistance. Etc. Call (203) 354-9375 mm "| 



Please send the items checked below — 

Q Explorer/85 Level "A" Kit (ASCII 

Version), $129.95 plus $3 p&h. 

D Explorer/85 Level "A" Kit (Hex 

Version), $129.95 plus $3 p&h. 

D 8k Microsoft BASIC on cassette 

tape, $64.95 postpaid. 

G 8k Microsoft BASIC in ROM Kit 

(requires Levels "B," "D," and "E"), 

$99.95 plus $2 p&h. 

D Level "B" (S-100) Kit, $49.95 plus 

$2 p&h. 

D Level "C" (S-100 6-card expander) 

Kit, $39.95 plus $2 p&h. 

□ Level "D" (4k RAM) Kit, $69.95 
plus $2 p&h. 

D Level "E" (EPROM ROM) Kit, 
$5.95 plus 5 0€ p&h. 

G Deluxe Steel Cabinet for Explorer/ 
85, $49.95 plus $3 p&h. 

□ ASCII Keyboard/Computer Ter- 
minal Kit (features a full 128 character 
set, upper & lower case, full cursor con- 
trol, 75 ohm video output convertible 
to baudot output, selectable baud rate, 
RS232-C or 20 ma. I/O, 32 or 64 char- 
acter by 16 line formats, and can be 
used with either a CRT monitor or a TV 
set (if you have an RF modulator), 
$149.95 plus $2.50 p&h. 



CT 06676 

plus $2 p&h- 
D Deluxe Steel Cabinet for ASCII 
Keyboard/Terminal, $19.95 plus $2.50 
p&h. 

G Power Supply Kit ( ± 8V @ 5 amps) 
in deluxe steel cabinet, $39.95 plus $2 
p&h. 

G Gold Plated S-100 Bus Connectors, 
$4.85 each, postpaid. 
G RF Modulator Kit (allows you to 
use your TV set as a monitor), $8.95 
postpaid. 

G 16k RAM Kit (S-100 Board expands 
to 64k), $199.95 plus $2 p&h. 
G 32k RAM Kit, $329.95 plus $2 p&h. 
G 48K RAM Kit, $459.95 plus $2 p&h. 
G 64k RAM Kitr$589.95 plus $2 p&h. 
G 16k RAM Expansion Kit (to expand 
any of the above up to 64k), $139.95 
plus $2 p&h each. 

G Intel 8085 cpu User's Manual, $7.50 
postpaid. 

G Special Computer Grade Cassette 
Tapes, $1.90 each or 3 for $5, postpaid. 
G 12" Video Monitor (10 MHz band- 
width), $139.95 plus $5 p&h. 
G North Star Double Density Floppy 
Disk Kit (One Drive) for Explorer/ 
85 (includes 3 drive S-100 controller, 



sonalized disk operating system— just ■ 
plug it in and you're up and running!), I 
$699.95 plus $5 p&h. ! 

□ Power Supply Kit for North Star I 
Disk Drive, $39.95 plus $2 p&h . " 

G Deluxe Case for North Star Disk I 
Drive, $39.95 plus $2 p&h. J 

G Experimenter's Pak (see above),! 
$199.90 postpaid. f 

G Student Pak (see above), $319.85 1 
postpaid. , 

G Engineering Pak (see above),! 
$514.75 postpaid. - 

G Business Pak (see above). $1599.40 1 
postpaid. | 

Total Enclosed $ I 

(Conn. res. add sales tax) By— | 

G Personal Check G M.O. /Cashier's I 
Check G Visa G Master Charge ■ 

(Bank* )l 



Signature _ 
Print 
Name 



_Exp. Date . 



I 

Ip Hex Keypad/Display Kit, $69.95 °° S ' ™ d extended BASIC with per- State. 



City_ 



_Zip_ 



G Send Me Information ■■ i 



Circle 261 on inquiry card. 



Circle 262 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 121 



U.S. ROBOTICS, INC. 




Tabs 

132 columns 

10, 12, 13.2. 16.5 

characters/inch 

2, 3, 4, 6, 8 or 12 lines/inch 

Optional tractor feed 



LA34 

DECwriter IV 

$1199.00 

110 or 300 baud 

RS232C/ASCII 

Friction feed/up to 15" wide 

paper 

9x7 dot matrix, impact 

printing 

Upper/lower case 



Teletype 

Model 43 KSR 

$1049.00 

• 110 or 300 baud 

• RS232C/ASCII 

• Pin feed/8 y 2 " Hx 11" W 
paper is perfect for filing 
and copying. 




132 columns 

Upper/lower case, true 

descenders 

Dot matrix, impact printing 




• Shiftlock Key 

• Print Key 

• Integrated Numeric Pad 

• Editing Functions 

• Extremely Compact: 
15" W x 19" D x 14" H 

• Silent fan-free operation 



The 550 BANTAM 

from Perkin-Elmer 

$799.00 

All the features of the 

Hazeltine 1400 & 

LSI ADM-3A plus 

• Upper/Lower Case 

• 7x10 Character Matrix 

• White or Black Characters 

• Transparent Mode 

• Addresable Cursor 

• Tab Function 

• Backspace Key 



PENRIL 300/1200 
MODEM 

Originate/Auto-Answer 

$799.00 

• RS232 

• Full duplex over voice 
grade phone lines 

• 1 year warranty 

• Stand alone 



0-300 or 1200 baud 
Bell 212A & 103/113 
compatible 

FCC certified for direct 
connection to phone lines 
via RJ11C voice jack 
(standard extension 
phone jack) 



USR-300 Series 



USR-310 Originate 

Acoustic Coupler 
$159.00 

• 0-300 Baud 

• Bell 103/113 compatible 

• Stand Alone 

• RS232 

• 1 Year Warranty 

• Crystal Controlled 

• State of the Art LSI circuitry 

• 5 stage active filters 



USR-330 

Originate/ 

Auto-Answer 

Modem 
$339.00 

FCC certified for direct 
connection to phone lines via 
standard extension phone 
jack. 

USR-320 
Auto-Answer Modem 
$319.00 




U.S. ROBOTICS, INC. 





1D35 W. 


LAKE ST. 




Sales 


CHICAGO, 


•LL. ««7 (312) 


733-0497 


General Offices 




(312) 


733-0498 


Service 




(312) 


733-0499 



or: 



= J_ + 
4/ 



2wf 



arcsin 



/ Vmtn \ 



(4) 



After substituting for t d and V r in equation 3, the final 
cookbook formula given in equation 1 is obtained. 

Design Example 

As an example, suppose that a microcomputer board 
requires a 5 V supply to deliver 3 A. Assume that V max 
under the worst-case conditions is found to be 14.8 V and 
that the integrated circuit voltage regulator requirements 
set V min to be 8.0 V. (The values for V maXf V mint and i max 
were taken from chapter 8, page 9 of the Voltage 
Regulator Handbook by National Semiconductor. The 
value calculated in the handbook was 2400 fiF.) 



C ,„ = 3 AL 4(60 Hz) 2tt(60Hz) 



arcsin 



\14.8V/ J 



therefore: 



14.8 V- 8.0 V 



C min = 2500/iF 



Some Dangers to Watch Out For 

In all of the discussion so far, it has been assumed that 
the capacitor can tolerate any ripple voltage. This is 
simply not so. Ripple voltages cause the capacitor to heat 
up inside. If the ripple voltage is too high, the capacitor 
can become too hot and explode. The value of V max may 
have to be decreased to meet capacitor ripple voltage 
requirements. Consult the manufacturer's specifications 
for the capacitor's maximum ripple voltages and/or cur- 
rents. Also, carefully check the tolerances for the value of 
the capacitor. 

Also, care must be taken not to choose too high a value 
of V max . Transformer-winding resistance, diode-voltage 
drops, diode capacitance, and low power-line voltage are 
some of the factors that must be considered when choos- 
ing the value of V max . Setting V max too high will result in 
C min being too small. 

Conclusion 

Use of the formula is a fast and accurate method of 
finding filter capacitor values. Careful choice of V max , 
Vmin, imax, and quality components will produce a power 
supply which will provide good performance. ■ 



The author wishes to thank Mr Scott Eanes of 
Hewlett-Packard for his assistance in producing the 
graphs for this article. 

References 

1 . Voltage Regulator Handbook by National Semiconductor, 
2900 Semiconductor Dr, Santa Clara CA 95051. 

2. Millman and Halkias, Integrated Electronics: 
Analog/Digital Circuits and Systems, McGraw-Hill, 1972. 

3. Hayt and Kemmerly, Engineering Circuit Analysis, 
McGraw-Hill, 1971. 



122 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 68 on inquiry card. 



SMOKE SIGNAL BROADCASTING 

Presents 

3 Powerful New SS-50/SS-50C Boards 



DCB-4 

Disk Master 

Double Density Controller Board 

and DOS68D Double Density DOS 

$449.00 



The new DCB-4 is a truly state-of-the-art develop- 
ment which allows up to 366 K bytes to be stored 
on a single 514" disk and has these outstanding 
features: 

• Up to four 5% "and four 8" drives can be 
handled in the same system with a user de- 
finable logical unit table. (DOS68D will be 
compatible with future hard disk systems). 

• Under software control, the user can select 
the following for any drive: 

& Single sided or double sided operation. 
"ft Single density or double density data. 

* 554" or 8". 

# Stepping Rate. 

if 40 track or 35 track density on double 
sided 534" drives. 

& User can select the system boot configu- 
ration. 

• Occupies only 16 bytes of memory space 
(F760-F76F standard). User selectable to any 
16 byte address space. 

• Can read and write a single sector by itself. 
On-board buffer memory allows full inter- 
rupt capability in interrupt driven systems. 
Once data transfer has been initiated, no 
more processor time is required. 

• Contains extended decoding circuitry for ex- 
tended addressing per SS— 50C bus which 
can be enabled by an option jumper. 

• SSB provides a means for copying software 
written by older versions of DOS68 to be 
read by DOS68D. All new media formatted 
by DOS68D can be read by all older versions 
of DOS68. DOS68 is SSB's 6800 disk opera- 
ting system. 

• Track of side is recorded in single den- 
sity per IBM standard. 

• Phase-locked-loop assures highest data inte- 
grity attainable. 

AM of these features are available for immediate 
delivery on one standard 5 1 / 2 " x 9" 50 pin SS^50/ 
SS-50C card for only $449.00. The price includes 
DOS68D version 5.1, MONITOR object code on 
diskette, and a manual with the source listing. 



SCB-69 

Super Computer Board 

6809CPU Board 

$299.00 



The most versatile 6809 CPU Board on 
the market is now available from 
Smoke Signal Broadcasting and has the 
following features: 

• Standard 2 MHz operation. 

• 20 bit address generation for up 
to 1 Mbyte of memory. Uses an 
improved address translation RAM 
which is compatible with present 
extended addressing schemes yet 
requires much less overhead when 
used in multi-user systems. 

• All on-board devices can be switch 
selected to occupy any or all ex- 
tended pages. Any on-board device 
may be disabled and its memory 
space is then available for exter- 
nal memory. 

• Standard real— time clock (time— 
of— day, day— of— week, day— of— 
month) with battery back up ca- 
pable of generating programmable 
interrupts. 

• Up to 20K of EPROM can be in- 
stalled on the CPU Board. 

• Standard 1 K of RAM on board. 

• Includes improved 6809 Monitor 
(and source listing). 

• Contains an FPLA for decoding 
EPROM address and optional de- 
vices. Switches are used to select 
2K/4K EPROM and Fast/Slow I/O. 

• Contains provision for optional 
9511/9512 floating point pro- 
cessor. 

• NMI line is user selectable to work 
with either SS-50 or SS-50C 
busses. 

Price for the new SCB— 69 is only 
$299.00 for an assembled, burned-in 
fully tested board. 



M-32-X 

32K 

Memory Board 

$539.00 $439.00 



The first and best 32K 
Static Ram Board on stan- 
dard size (5 1 / 2 " x 9") 
SS-50/SS-50C Bus Cir- 
cuit Card is made by 
Smoke Signal. 

• Switch selectable to 
any 4K boundary. 

• Any 4K block may be 
switch enabled or dis- 
abled. 

• Fully compatible with 
SS-50C extended ad- 
dressing (allows mem- 
ory decoding up to 
1 Mbyte). 

• Extended addressing 
capability may be 
switched off for com- 
patibility with SS-50 
systems. 

• Gold Bus Connectors 
for high reliability. 

• Guaranteed 2MHz op- 
eration (tested at 2.2 
MHz). 

• Low power consump- 
tion — 8 volts at 
2.4 amps typical. 



M-32-X 
Board i 
$539.00. 



32K Memory 
priced at 



M-24-X 24K Memory 
Board expandable to 32K, 
is $439.00. 

AndourM-16-X 16K 
board is back to the old 
price of $299.00. 




31336 Via Colinas, Westlake Village, CA 91361, (213) 889-9340 



Circle 69 on iriquiry card. 



A Graphics 
Text Editor for Music 

Part 1: Structure of the Editor 



Randolph Nelson 
2039 W Artesia Blvd 

Apt 121 
Torrance CA 90504 



This two-part article describes the 
design of a musical text editor which 
could be implemented on a home 
computer graphics system. It is in- 
tended to be an overview of the basic 
design (part 1), along with the essen- 
tial algorithms (part 2). A complete 
description of the system would take 
too much space. The editor allows a 
user to input a score of music and 
make corrections or modifications to 
it. The program stores the score, 
alters it according to the commands 
of the user, and displays the music on 
a graphics screen. All formatting, 
staffing and arranging of the score on 
the screen is done automatically by 
the program. Using the editor re- 
quires no special skills or knowledge. 
Before discussing the editor, it might 
be helpful to review musical notation. 

Musical Notation 

Written music is one of the most 
complex languages that man has in- 



About the Author 

Randolph Nelson has a background both in 
music and in computer science. He studied 
clarinet for 15 years, and wavered between the 
two fields before deciding to complete a 
master's degree in computer work. Now he is 
studying for a PhD in computer communica- 
tion networks at UCLA. 



124 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



vented. Its notation rivals mathe- 
matics in the diversity of its symbols 
and the richness of its expression. I 
can only hope to provide those 
readers not familiar with reading 
music with an appreciation of the 
problems that must be solved by the 
editor in storing and displaying this 
complex language. During the follow- 
ing discussion the reader should con- 
sult the accompanying tables and 
figures. 

A score of music consists of a se- 
quence of pages much like a book. A 
page contains several staffs, each con- 
sisting of five parallel horizontal lines 
stacked on the page. These are called 
lines of music; at the beginning of 
each is a clef sign to signify the pitch 
values of each line of the staff, a key 
signature which denotes any of 
twelve major keys that the music can 
be written in, and a time signature 
consisting of two numerals, one plac- 
ed on top of the other, much like a 
fraction. The upper numeral denotes 
the number of beats in each measure 
(to be presently defined) and the 
lower numeral denotes which note 
value is to be used as the value of one 
beat. The rest of the line consists of a 
sequence of measures separated by 
bar lines, which are vertical lines on 
the staff. The number of measures in 



each line depends only upon the 
demands of readability. Some 
measures occupy more space than 
others, but all of the bar lines at the 
end of each line are arranged to line 
up in the same manner as the right 
margins on a page of written text (a 
process called right justification). The 
contents of the measures consist of 
notes, rests, and other symbols. 

Each note consists of an oval area 
which is either filled in with ink or left 
empty, and a stem, which is a straight 
line segment. Associated with each 
note is a pitch and a duration. The 
pitch is indicated by the clef and the 
note's vertical displacement on the 
staff — the higher up the staff, the 
higher the pitch. Notes that have a 
higher pitch than the top line of the 
staff would indicate are positioned on 
small lines (called ledger lines). The 
ledger lines are a temporary continua- 
tion of the main staff lines. One can 
thus think of the staff as being many 
parallel lines, of which only five are 
shown. 

The time duration in which a given 
note is to sound is determined by the 
intrinsic relative value given to its 
symbol, the time signature of the par- 
ticular piece of music, and the tempo 
indicated. To simplify the discussion 
here, assume that a quarter note has a 




And why not? We have something to brag about! 
In less than eight months, more than five thousand people 
have proudly purchased Word Star™ from over 280 
dealers around the world. 

The reason is simple. Word Star™ is the word processing 
software package for Z-80, 8085 and 8080 microcomputers. 

So go ahead. Call us at (415) 457-8990 for the name of 
your nearest dealer. 

He's got a great deal to brag about, too. 

WORD-STAR by (mtooPio) 

We've got a lot to brag about. 



MicroPro International Corporation 

1299 4th Street, San Rafael, California 94901 

Telex 340388 Dealer/Distributor/O. E. M. inquiries invited. 

Stop by booth 16 at the NCC & Personal Computing Festival in Anaheim so we can brag, brag, brag. 



BYTE April 1980 125 



Circle 71 on inquiry card. 



GET HIM! 

Kill Morloc The Wizard, the evil master of mayhem and illusion. 
He's threatening the village of Hagedorn and the beautiful maiden 
Imelda. 

She's desperately waiting for you to rescue her and the village. 
But, first, you'll kill Morloc in this exciting and provocative 
REALTIME computer game from Automated Simulations. 
Morloc lives in a 30-room Tower, where his minions and monsters 
do his bidding to create chilling hazards for any intruder. He will 
try to throw a host of them at you— Ogres, The Creeping Crud, 
Fire Elemental, Vampire Bats, Salamanders and his personal Genie. 
The fiend will even resort to his dread Fireballs. And, to avoid 
capture and death, will teleport himself away at crucial moments. 
How will you get Imelda and save Hagedorn? By finding the 
magical treasures in the Tower that you will turn against Morloc. 
That is, after you decipher their meaning, 

and learn how to use them. 

GET HIM!! And, Imelda 
is yours. So is the entire 
village. 

But, HURRY! You're in 
REALTIME and the inno- 
cent Imelda is about to 
be violated! 

If you have a 24K PET, 
16K TRS-80, or 48K 
APPLE, you can play the 
exciting "MORLOC'S 
TOWER" and have 
Imelda for your very own. 

Act now. Imelda can't 
hold out much longer. 





HERE'S HOW YOU CAN TOUCH 
YOUR FANTASIES: Ask your dealer or 
rush $14.95 in check or money order to 
Automated Simulations, Dept. M5 
P.O. Box 4232, Mountain View, 
CA 94040. 

Or, call our FANTASY LINE, toll free, 
800-824-7888, Operator 861 to place 
your order and to tell us what other fan- 
tasies you would like to touch. (Cali- 
fornia.call 800-852-7777,Operator 861 .. . 
Alaska and Hawaii, call 800-824-7919, 
Operator 861). 



A 



AUTOMATED 
SIMULATIONS 



I WANT TO TOUCH MY FANTASIES.,. 
Rush me "MORLOC'S TOWER" for $14.95 
(plus 6% for California residents) 

Payment enclosed Bill my VISA D M.C. □ 

Account # Expires: 



GUARANTEE 

If I'm not completely satisfied, 

I will send "MORLOC'S TOWER" back 

to you in 10 days for a full refund. 



Name_ 



Address _ 
City 



. State . 



.Zip. 



© I 



value of one beat (ie: that the lower 
numeral in the time signature is 4), 
and relative beat values will be given 
according to this standard. 

Often a small dot is placed after a 
note. This increases the time value of 
the note by half of its original value. 
Dot placement may be done recur- 
sively; two dots increase the value 
by 3 A, three dots by %, etc. 

When notes with flags (eighth, six- 
teenth, and smaller values) occur ad- 
jacently, they are often grouped 
together by changing the flags into a 
roughly horizontal bar or bars, which 
connect the stems of the notes. These 
bars are properly called beams, or 
ligatures. Each beam represents one 
flag in determining the time value of 
the note. 

Depending upon whether the note 
stems are pointing up or down, the 
beams may be located either above or 
below the notes. Descriptive terms 
that I use are as follows: a group of 
notes connected by a beam is a beam- 
ing group. Placing the beam above 
the note heads and stems is 
overbeaming. Placing the beam 
below the note heads and stems is 
underbeaming. 

Additional symbols occurring in 
music are sharps, flats, double 
sharps, double flats, and natural 
signs. These may be placed together 
to indicate a key signature, or singly 
(as accidentals) to indicate modifica- 
tion of pitch for a single note. In the 
latter case, they are placed im- 
mediately to the left of the note head, 
the oval part of the note. (See table 2.) 

Rests indicate durations during 
which no notes in a given part are 
played (ie: silence). They have a 
duration which is determined only by 
their shape, the time signature, and 
for some types, the number of flags 
they exhibit. Music abounds in 
special symbols that are used to in- 
dicate the amplitude (ie: volume) of 
the sound, changes in amplitude, the 
speed (ie: tempo) of the music, and 
rhythmic variations. The placement 
of these symbols often depends upon 
the context of the music, and for 
every rule regarding their location 
there are numerous exceptions. 

We do not have space here to 
discuss all of the details of musical 
notation. An exhaustive description 



126 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 




Let this New Series from 

BYTE BOOKS answer your 

programming questions 



Programming Techniques is a series of 
collected articles concerned with the art and 
science of computer programming. The first 
volume in the Programming Techniques 
series is entitled Program Design. The pur- 
pose of the book is to provide the personal 
computer user with the techniques needed 
to design efficient, effective, maintainable 
programs. 

ISBN 0-07-037825-8 Pages: 96 
Price: $6 
Editor: Blaise W. Liffick 

Simulation is the second volume in the 
Programming Techniques series. Both 
theoretical and practical applications are 
included. Particularly stressed is simulation 
of motion, including wave motion and fly- 
ing objects, and the use of simulation for 
experimentation. 
ISBN 0-07-037826-6 Pages: 126 
Price: $6 
Editor: Blaise W. Liffick 

Numbers in Theory and Practice is the 
third book in the series. It includes infor- 
mation of value to both the novice and the 
experienced personal computer user. The 
mechanics of the binary system are dis- 
cussed, including software division and 
multiplication, as well as floating point 



numbers, numerical methods, random 

numbers, and the mathematics of computer 

graphics, 

ISBN 0-07-037827-4 Pages: 192 

Price: $8.95 

Editor: Blaise W. Liffick 

The 4th volume of the Programming 
Techniques series, Bits and Pieces, covers 
various topics of interest to programmers. It 



is a collection of the best articles from past 
issues of BYTE magazine plus new material 
collected specifically for the series, on sub- 
jects such as multiprogramming, stacks, 
interrupts optimation, and real time 
processing. 

ISBN 0-07-037828-2 Pages: 160 
Price $8.95 
Editor: Blaise W. Liffick 



ri? 



Please send 



. copies of Program Design 

. copies of Simulation 

. copies of Numbers in Theory and Practice 

. copies of Bits and Pieces 



Company 



Street 



City 



State/Province 



BITE 

LEtllMS. 



D Check enclosed in the amount of $ 

D Bill Visa □ Bill Master Charge 

Card No. Exp. Date . 



Add 75<t per book to cover postage and handling. 
70 Main St, Peterborough, NH 03458 



Circle 127 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 127 



Whole Note 



Half Note 



Quarter Note 



Eighth Note 



4 Beats 



2 Beats 



1 Beat 



1 / 2 Beat 



J 
J 



Sixteenth Note 1/4 Beat 



Thirty-second Note 1/8 Beat 



Sixty-fourth Note 1/16 Beat 






For notes whose duration is not a power of 
2, one indicates the value of the note with an 
integer and proper staffing. For example, to 
express a rhythm of three notes to one beat 
one would write: 



m -) 



Similarly, five notes to one-half beat would 
be: 



J¥Wfl -J* 



Table 1: The most common musical notes and their duration in beats, where a 
quarter note equals one beat. 



$ 



t 



m 



o a 



f>=h 



m 



o 



t 7 n 



Figure 1: Symbols used in musical notation, shown in their natural habitat, the staff. 
They are as follows: a, treble or G clef; b, key signature of two flats (showing key of B 
flat major or its relative minor key of G minor); c, time signature (indicating four beats 
to a measure with the quarter note receiving one beat); d, bar line; e, whole note on 
leger line below staff; i, whole note on leger lines above staff; g, bass or F clef; h, key 
signature of one sharp (indicating key of G major or E minor); i, whole note; j, half 
note; k, quarter note; 1, eighth note (with flag); m, sixteenth note (with two flags); n, 
dotted half note (receives 150% of its normal time value); o, eighth notes (with beam 
and marked with dots under note head, indicating staccato); p, sixteenth notes (with 
double beam); q, half note with sharp accidental (raising its pitch one semitone) that has 
a fermata above it (indicating a longer time value with performer discretion); r, a dotted 
eighth note followed by a sixteenth note (indicated by a broken beam); s, a whole rest; 
t, a half rest; u, a quarter rest; v, an eighth rest; w, a sixteenth rest. 



may be found in the book Music 
Notation: A Manual of Modem Prac- 
tice by Gardner Read. Figure 1 shows 
many of the more common symbols 
which are used in the editing system. 

Basic Problems of the Editor 

Now that we have an appreciation 
for the notation we are trying to com- 
puterize, let us approach the basic 
problems of the editor. There are four 
main problems to be solved: 



• Input 



• Data 
Structures 



• Commands 



Output 



How will the user 
translate the score 
into a computer 
readable form? 
After the score is 
entered, what 
structures will the 
program use to 
store the informa- 
tion? 

What commands 
should be provid- 
ed for the user to 
allow ease in 
editing the score? 
How will the in- 
ternal encoding of 
the score be final- 
ly displayed on 
the graphics 
screen? 



I will discuss each of these prob- 
lems in detail and outline the solu- 
tions. 

Input 

All input to a computer consists of 
a linear sequence of integers. Our 
problem then consists of finding a 
way to convert a musical score into 
such a sequence. The nature of 
musical notation is two-dimensional, 
with a horizontal component and, 
since symbols can be stacked on top 
of each other, a vertical component. 
Converting this essentially planar 
notation into a linear notation is no 
easy task, and if the user is not to be 
burdened with a complicated input 
format, some way must be found to 
structure the input also to be two- 
dimensional, and to let an interface 
program convert the input into in- 
tegers. 

Fortunately there is a specialized 

hardware unit that allows us to do 

Text continued on page 132 



128 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Everybody's making money 
selling microcomputers. 

Somebody s going to make money 

servicing them. 

New NRI Home Study Course Shows You How to Make Money Servicing, Repairing, 
and Programming Personal and Small Business Computers 



Seems like every time you turn around, some- 
body comes along with a new computer for 
home or business use. And they're being gobbled 
up to handle things like payrolls, billing, inven- 
tory and other jobs for businesses of every 
size... to perform household functions like 
budgeting, environmental systems control, 
indexing recipes, and more. 

Growing Demand for 
Computer Technicians... 
Learn in Your Spare Time 

Even before the microprocessor burst 
upon the scene, the U.S. Department of Labor 
forecast over a 100% increase in job openings for 
the decade through 1985. Most of them new 
jobs created by the expanding world of the 
computer. NRI can train you at home to service 
both microcomputers and their big brothers. 
Train you at your convenience, with clearly 
written "bite-size" lessons that you do evenings 
or weekends without quitting your present job. 
Assemble Your Own Microcomputer 

NRI training includes practical experi- 
ence. You start with meaningful experiments 
building and studying circuits on the NRI 
Discovery Lab® Then you build your own 
test instruments like a transistorized volt-ohm 
meter, CMOS digital frequency counter... equip- 
ment you learn on, use later in your work. 

And you build your own microcomput- 
er, the only one designed for learning. It looks 
and operates like the finest of its kind, actually 
does more than many commercial units. But 
NRI engineers have designed components and 
planned assembly so it demonstrates important 
principles, gives you working experience in 
detecting and correcting problems. It's the 




kind of "hands-on" training you need to 
repair and service units now on the market. 
Mail Coupon for Free Catalog 
No Salesman Will Call 

Send today for our 100-page, full- 
color catalog. It describes NRI's new Mi- 
crocomputer Technology course in detail, 
shows all equipment, kits, and lesson plans. 
And it also tells about ■— 
other NRI courses... 
Complete Communi- 
cations with 2-meter 



transceiver... TV/Audio/Video Systems Servicing 
with training on the only designed-for-learning 
25" diagonal color TV with state-of-the-art 
computer programming. With more than a 
million students since 1914, NRI knows how 
to give you the most in home training for new 
opportunity. If coupon has been removed, 
write to NRI Schools, 3939 Wisconsin Ave., 
Washington, DC. 20016. 

RUSH FOR FREE CATALOG 




KB 

linn 



NRI Schools 

McGraw-Hill Continuing 

Education Center 
3939 Wisconsin Avenue 
Washington, D.C. 20016 
Please check for one free catalog only. 
NO SALESMAN WILL CALL 




All career courses 
approved under GI Bill. 
□ Check for details. 



□ Computer Electronics Including 

Microcomputers 
D TV/Audio/Video Systems Servicing 
P Complete Communications Electronics 

with CB • FCC Licenses • Aircraft, 

Mobile, Marine Electronics 
D CB Specialists Course 
D Amateur Radio • Basic and Advanced 



□ Digital Electronics • Electronic 
Technology • Basic Electronics 

D Small Engine Repair 

□ Electrical Appliance Servicing 

□ Automotive Mechanics 

□ Auto Air Conditioning 

□ Air Conditioning, Refrigeration, & Heating 
Including Solar Technology 



City/State/Zip 

Accredited by the Accrediting Commission of the National Home Study Council ' 70-040 



1 



NEECO 



PROUDLY ANNOUNCES THE NEWEST 



Microcomputer Systems Division 



HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE FOR YOUR PET! 
4& tJQ&* The PET is now a truly sophisticated 



*°;<* 



35K 



f& 



Business System with the announcement 
of these peripherals and software packages. 







NEW 
NEW 



NEW 



PRODUCT DESCRIPTION 

PET 2001— 8KN (Large Keys) 8K RAM 
PET 2001— 8K 8KRAM 

PET 2001— 16KN (Large Keys)16K RAM* 
PET 2001— 32KN (Large Keys)32K RAM 
PET 2023 PRINTER ROLL FEED 

PET 2022 PRINTER TRACTOR/ROLL 
ROMRETRO KIT UPDATED O/S 

PET 2040 DUAL FLOPPY* 

PET C2N 2nd Cassette 

'The 16K/32K (large keyboard) units do not include a cassette drive. Order C2N Cassette. 
2040 Floppy Drive requires a 16K or 32K unit. 8K RAM Retrofit available July. 

ALL PETS ARE FULLY TESTED BY NEECO BEFORE SHIPMENT. NEECO IS A FULL 
CUSTOMER-ORIENTED COMPANY. CALL FOR OUR FREE CATALOG. ALL ORDERS 
OVER $795 WILL RECEIVE A FREE NEECO PET DUST COVER AND $100 OF SOFT- 
WARE FROM OUR CATALOG IF YOU MENTION YOU SAW THIS AD. 



PRICE 


AVAILABILITY 


$ 795 


IMMEDIATE 


$ 795 


IMMEDIATE 


$ 995 


IMMEDIATE 


$1295 


IMMEDIATE 


$ 695 


IMMEDIATE 


$ 795 


IMMEDIATE 


$ 90 


IMMEDIATE 


$1295 


IMMEDIATE 


$ 95 


IMMEDIATE 



EDUCATORS TAKE NOTICE ! 
2 8=r N OW = 3 



Commodore /At least until \ 
Computers ^Aug. 15th, 1980 y 



Neeco is pleased to announce a Special Educational Program from Commodore Business 
Machines. Any bona fide school or educational institution will receive one CBM/PET 
Computer absolutely *Free+ (direct from Commodore) for every two CBM/PET Com- 
puters Purchased at retail! 

Contact NEECO for details and ordering information 

EDUCATORS TAKE NOTICE ! 



PRODUCTS ARE AVAILABLE TO DEALERS VIA MICRO AMERICA DISTRIBUTING (617-449-4310) 




FOR WORD PROCESSING 
NEC IS BEST! 

* 55 characters per second output speed 

* Changeable thimble for different typestyles 

* Less than 1% warranty malfunction rate 

* IBM quality letter output 

* Dealer inquiries invited 



THE NEC SPINWRITER 
MODEL 5530-P (23&t&r) 



$2995 



'Price includes IEEE interface 
to PET. IEEE Port is available 
for use with 2040 Dual Disk. 



•The NEC 5530-P is the output printer recommended by Commodore for their Word Processing System. 




fc lCCf*r\ Mon-Fri 9:30-5:30 
IMIZlIv^VJ MasterCharge & 

679 Highland Ave. Visa Accepted 

(617)449-1760 

Telex: 951021 



Need ham 
02194 



MA 



MICROAMERICA DISTRIBUTING 

"Nationwide distributors of Computer Equipment" 
21 Putnam Street 
Needham, MA ^ - 

02194 (617)449-4310 



Circle 73 for NEECO 



Circle 263 for microamerica 




NEECO 

PROUDLY 

INTRODUCES 



MULTI-CLUSTER 

"Multi User Management System for 
Commodore CBM/PET* Computers" 



UP TO 8 CBM/PETS MAY NOW SIMULTANEOUSLY ACCESS ONE 2040! 




Channel Module 
CM^OO 




Multi-Cluster 

Model MO800A 

Standard 3 Channels) 



$995 



Up to 8 Channel (3 Standard) for CBM/PET Computers. 
Up to 8 CBM/PETS can multi-use one Commodore 2040 
dual disk drive simultaneously with equal access. 
Multi-Cluster supports all 2040 disk O/S commands 
including sequential, random access, and user files. 
Multi-Cluster does not utilize any RAM or ROM from the 
2040 or host CBM/PET units. 

Multi-Cluster is compatible with all known softwear that 
utilize the IEEE port, 

Multi-Cluster can be fully implemented on 8 PETS, 
completely ready to use, in less than 15 minutes. 
Simply plug the Multi-Cluster unit into the IEEE port of 
the 2040 Disk Drive, then attach a Channel Module, 
#CM800, (3 Channel Modules are standard with unit), to the 
IEEE port of each PET. 



THE MULTI-CLUSTER SYSTEM HAS BEEN USED AND FULLY-TESTED BY NEECO 




Multi-Cluster 

Model MC-800A 

(Standard 3 Channels) 



-> 



-«*••!, 



Up to 8 

CBM/PETS 

May Access 

One 2040 

Disk Drive 



Optional 
m Output 
Printer 
Module 






Multi-Cluster is ideal for industrial, OEM, Vertical 
Markets, and Educational Institutions. Multi- 
Cluster allows you to make full use of the Com- 
modore 3 units for the price of 2 educational pro- 
grams. 

Standard Components: 

1 Multi-Cluster #MC800A 

3 Channel Modules #CM-100 

3 6' Ribbon Cables #RC6 



Output Printer Module allows 
1 CBM/PET to scan 2040 Disk 
and print flagged files. 



Optional Component Prices: 

Each additional CM-100. $250 

Each 12' Ribbon Cable (RC12) $ 40 

Each 18' Ribbon Cable (RC18) $ 60 

Output Printer Module (PM200) $200 

(For Centronics ProtocaJ Printers) 



*PET is a registered trademark of Commodore Business Machines. Small Keyboard PETS require a ROM Retrofit Kit for Multi- 
Cluster system operation. 
Multi-Cluster is available in Canada from BMB Compu Science, Milton, Ontario, (416) 878-7277 




NEECO 



Dealer Sales: 
Microamerica Distributing 

679 Highland Ave. 21 Putnum St., Needham, MA 02194 
Needham, MA (617) 449-4310 Telex: 951021 
02194 



Customer Sales: 
NEECO 

679 Highland Ave., Needham, MA 02194 
(617)449-1760 



Circle 74 for NEECO 



Circle 264 for microamerica 



Sharps tt 

Flats b Naturals H 



Placement of Symbols 



Double 

sharps X and double flats bv are 
placed immediately to the left of the note: 



Dots • , which increase the value of 
the note by 1/2, are placed to the right of 
the note. 



Tenuto — and staccato • are plac- 
ed immediately below (overbeamed) or 
above (underbeamed) the note. 



Tie and slur *> -s are placed above or 

below the note and occur after any tenuto 
or staccato. 



Accent < is placed above or below the 
note and occurs after any slur or tie. 



Fermata /Tn occurs above the note and 
is placed after any slur or tie. 



We thus have the following possible arrange- 
ment of symbols for an overbeamed note 
(underbeamed is analogous). 







o < 



{sharp, flat, natural, double sharp and flat) 



#,b. 



c 



Table 2: Symbols that modify the meaning of notes 
around the notes. 



M ,^, bb (dot) 

are placed in various positions 



Text continued from page 128: 

this, called a graphics tablet. It con- 
sists of a flat board which has sensors 
placed in a cartesian coordinate 
system. Using a pen-sized stylus, one 
of the coordinates from the tablet can 
be designated by placing the stylus on 
the board and pressing. A typical 
way to use the tablet is to prepare a 
template or menu that is placed over 
the board. This template is divided 
into regions, each region representing 
a different command. If a particular 
command, say to edit, occupies the 
area bounded by the X coordinate 
within 100 and 200, and the Y coor- 
dinate within 300 and 400, the place- 
ment of the pen at the point (150, 310) 
allows the interface program, with 
two conditional statements, to ascer- 
tain the command to edit. 

Lest this special hardware unit 
dissuade the reader from continuing, 
I might add that there are a number of 
excellent data tablets on the market 
whose prices are far below previous 
commercial models. One of these is 
the Summagraphics Bit Pad, which 
offers an 11-inch (29 cm) square coor- 
dinate system with a possible resolu- 
tion of 0.1 mm. This means that the 
pad can distinguish between 
placements of the stylus that are only 
0.1 mm apart. The capabilities of this 
unit far surpass our needs here. 

Let us now look at a subset of the 
template for the editor (see figure 2). 
The template consists of two main 
areas: the first contains the com- 
mands and symbols that will be used, 
and the second contains a staff on 
which the notes and symbols of the 
score are placed. A program which 



TENUTO 


* 


o 


< 


P 


ALLEGRO 


VIVACE 


FORWARD 


BACKWARD 


NULL EXIT 


DOT 


\> 


— 


CRESC 


m 


ANDANTE 


LENTO 


INSERT 


DELETE 


EX IT 


REST 


\ 


< 


> 


f 


MODERATE 


LARGO 


CREATE 


DISPLAY 


EDIT 


NOTE 


X 


bb 


Dl M 


3 
4 


RETENEZ 


CHARACTER 


MEASURE 


LINE 


PAGE 



Figure 2: Musical template for the editor. The software music editor described in the article uses a data entry tablet with a pen for 
entering musical symbols. The top of the template contains the commands and symbols recognized by the editor, and the bottom is 
a musical staff on which the notes and symbols are placed. A program acting as the interface between the output of the tablet and 
the input to the editor reads the placement of the stylus, converts this into a set of commands, and sends them to the editor in the 
computer. 

132 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



acts as the interface between the out- 
put of the tablet and the input to the 
editor reads the placement of the 
stylus, converts this into an internal 
code, and encodes a set of commands 
that it will eventually send to the 
editor. This interface program also 
handles the sorting and placement of 
all symbols, thus alleviating the user 
from the left-right horizontal input of 
the score. 

The following is the procedure for 
entering a typical musical score (see 
figure 3) into the computer: 

1. Touch the stylus to the treble clef 
sign of the template. This tells the 
program that the measure being 
created starts with a clef, 

2. Touch the appropriate position for 
key signature placement. 

3. Touch the time signature com- 
mand, as appropriate. 

4. Touch the note symbol. This tells 
the interface that the input of notes 
now begins. Everywhere the pen is 
touched on the staff is a place for a 
note until a future command is ac- 
tivated. 

5. Touch the staff in the correct 
places for the notes indicating both 
time (the horizontal distance using 
the notes on the template as a 
guide) and pitch (the vertical 
placement on the staff). 

6. Touch the sharp sign and touch the 
note that is to receive it as an ac- 
cidental. 

7. Touch the f , mp, and mf signs, and 
touch the staff in the correct 
places. 

8. Touch the crescendo sign and the 
first and last points that bound its 
range. 



Whole rest 


4 Beats 


*-r 


Half rest 


2 Beats 


7 


Quarter rest 


1 Beat 


Eighth rest 


1/2 Beat 


7 


Sixteenth rest 


1/4 Beat 


*? 


Thirty-second rest 


1/8 Beat 


8 


Sixty-fourth rest 


1/16 Beat 


s 


Table 3: Rests and their values. 



Crescendo (getting louder) 

Diminuendo (getting softer) ~^zz==~ 

Soft p Loud f Medium m and all combina- 
tions ie: mp, medium soft 

Numerous others and written text usually 
in italics. 

Table 4: Other symbols. 



9. Touch the diminuendo sign and 

the first and last points that bound 

its range. 
10. Touch the bar line at the end of the 

staff to indicate the end of a 

measure. 

The Data Structures 

There are four main data areas in 
the editor, each with different for- 
mats and methods of access: 



1. The score area. In this area is the 
computer version of the score, 
which is divided into four main 
sections: character, measure, line, 
and page information. Access can 
be made to any of these four sec- 
tions. 

2. The screen area. Data here consists 
of codes that allow the computer 
to easily display the score on the 
screen. Each of these codes causes 
the machine to draw or point to a 
different spot of the graphics 
screen or invoke a routine to draw 
a symbol. There is a mapping pro- 
gram that takes a measure in score- 
area format and converts it into 
screen-area format. 

3. The work area. When a measure is 
being edited, it is brought into the 
work area from the score area and 
the screen area. All changes to the 
characters occur in the work area. 
There is a mapping from the screen 
(ie: where the user does the editing) 
to the work area, so that any 
changes made appear in both 
places. After editing, the new 
measure is put into a free location 
determined by the free storage 
routines, and the score and screen 
areas are adjusted accordingly. 

4. The free area. These areas record 
the locations and lengths of free 
storage area in the score and screen 
areas. Storage routines access this 
area to determine the locations of 
the measures in each of the score 
and screen areas. 

Whenever the user writes a pro- 
gram, the commitment to the actual 
form of the data should be postponed 
until the last moment. The methods 



BE 4 o 



X 



€> — - 



ZgL ^ 



y y 


k 






/L 


s 






Bf^ /3 


) 






Vy ^ M m 


^ 






W * 


** * J- :?^ <* 


-o- 



Figure 3: Section of a typical musical score. The procedure for entering it into the computer by use of the graphics tablet is explained 
in the text. 



April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 133 



of access should be specified in detail 
before deciding on the actual struc- 
ture of the information. Once the 
form is decided, the structures should 
be accessed only through routines 
that may be called from the pro- 
cedures of the program. This design 
method is called encapsulating the 
data. Its use is essential if you an- 
ticipate modifications or changes to 
the way the information is stored. 

The editor has a two-level encap- 
sulation scheme. The first level con- 
sists of primitive data operations that 
manipulate the actual data of the 
score, screen, work, and free areas. 
References to the actual data can be 
made only through these primitive 
routines, and it is only for these 
routines that the actual form of the 
data is important. For example, the 
score area is divided into four types 
of data manipulation. Routines for 
character, measure, line, and page 
manipulation are provided. All of the 
primitive routines for manipulating 
characters of a measure are listed 
below: 

GETFCH (Get forward character) 



This routine increments a 
pointer so that it points to 
the next character of the 
measure. 

PUTFCH (Put forward character) 
This routine inserts infor- 
mation about a new 
character after the current 
pointer. 

KILLCH (Kill character) This 
routine deletes the charac- 
ter presently pointed to. 
The pointer points to the 
next character. 

GETPCH (Get previous character) 
This routine moves the 
pointer so that it points to 
the previous character. 
GETPCH is the opposite 
of GETFCH. 

PUTPCH (Put previous character) 
This routine inserts a new 
character before the cur- 
rent pointer. PUTPCH is 
the opposite of PUTFCH. 

These are the only routines which 
reference characters of the score area; 
all character manipulations must be 
done via these primitives. For exam- 



ple, if the user wishes to edit measure 
5, the editor must first transfer the 
contents of measure 5 to the work 
area. The routine MOVMSR, which 
is in the second level of encapsula- 
tion, performs this task by making 
calls to the primitive routines 
GETFCH and PUTWRK. PUTWRK 
is a primitive routine for the work 
area that takes a character and inserts 
it after the current work pointer. 
MOVMSR, like all routines in the se- 
cond level, consists of a sequence of 
calls to the primitive routines of the 
first level. It would appear something 
like: 

1. IF at end of measure THEN exit 

2. GETFCH 

3. PUTWRK 

4. GO TO 1 

There are about 50 first-level 
primitive routines, most of which are 
only a few lines of code, and about 
150 second-level routines in the 
editor. Any changes to the structure 
of the data (eg: changing the way the 
score is stored from a set of arrays to 
a tree) influences only a subset of the 



SPECIALIZING IN 



QUALITY MICROCOMPUTER HARDWARE 

INDUSTRIAL • EDUCATIONAL • SMALL BUSINESS • PERSONAL 



BUILDING BLOCKS FOR MICROCOMPUTER SYSTEMS, CONTROL & TEST EQUIPMENT 




R 2 I/O 

2K ROM 

2K RAM 

3 Serial Ports 

1 Parallel Port 

WIRED: $295.00 




16 K RAM 

FULLY STATIC 
MEMORY 
KIT: $279.00 
WIRED: $310.00 




ECT-100-F 

RACKMOUNT 
CARD CAGES 
KIT: $200.00 
WIRED: $250.00 



POWER SUPPLIES, CPU's, MEMORY, OEM VARIATIONS 



TT-10 

TABLE TOP 
MAINFRAMES 
KIT: $340.00 
WIRED: $395.00 



763 RAMSEY AVE. 
HILLSIDE, N.J. 07205 



ELECTRONIC CONTROL TECHNOLOGY (zou gbb-soso 



134 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 75 on inquiry card. 




32K Board Pictured Above 



Why Not the Best? 

From The Dynamic RAM Company. 



2MHz 


4MHz 


16K— $249 


$259 


32K— $375 


$395 


48K— $500 


$530 


64K— $625 


$665 



We have now been shipping 
our 2MHz dynamic RAM boards 
for over two years. Hundreds of 
4MHz boards have been going 
out every month since early 
1979. Our reliability is proven in 
the thousands of systems which 
contain our board. Many quality- 
minded systems houses across 
the country and overseas are 
using our boards for their 
equipment. 

Our prices still beat all. 
Despite rising 16K memory chip 
prices (at least from reputable 
suppliers), Central Data continues 
to give you the best buy in 
memory today. Nobody offers a 
board with a capacity of 64K, 
assembled, tested, and guaranteed 
for a full year at the price we do. 

Circle 76 on inquiry card. 



Deselect around PROMs. Our 

boards have the important deselect 
feature which lets you overlap any 
fixed memory in your system with 
no interference. 

Our features make the board 
easily used and expanded. You 
address our boards on 1 6K 
boundaries with mini-jumps (small 
shorting plugs that slide over wire- 
wrap pins) near the top of the 
board for easy access. If you want 
to expand your board after you 
have purchased it, all that you 
need to do is add memory. We 
can supply you with expansion 
packages ($150-2MHz, 
$160-4MHz) which include eight 
RAMs that you can depend on as 
well as two mini-jumps for 
addressing. And of course, our 
board never generates wait states. 

Low power consumption keeps 
your computer running cool and 
reliable. The total power 
consumption of our 1 6K board is 
typically less than 4 watts (+8V @ 
300ma, + 1 6V @ 1 50ma and 



-16V @ 20ma). Boards with 
additional memory typically 
increase power consumption only 
1 watt per 16 K! 

Standard S-100 Interface. Our 
board is designed to interface with 
any standard S-100 CPU. All of 
the timing of the board is 
independent of the processor chip, 
and the board is set up for 
different processors by changing 
two plugs on the board. 

Call or write us today. That will 
guarantee a fast response with 
more information on the board. Or 
make an order — you'll probably 
have the board in two weeks! If 
you're interested, also ask for a 
catalog on our Z8000 16-bit 
processor board designed for the 
MULTIBUS. All of these products 
are available to your local dealer, 
also. 

Central Data Corporation, 713 
Edgebrook Drive, PO Box 2530, 
Station A, Champaign, IL 61820. 
(217) 359-8010 

Central Data 

BYTE April 1980 135 



Circle 77 on inquiry card. 



$1 0,000 

Value! 

A Complete 

Business 
System 

only $5995 

(price includes air freight shipping) 



VECTOR SYSTEM B, complete 
with Vector Mindless Terminal, 
64Kof RAM, Dual Floppy Disks 
(630 kilobytes of storage), and 
printer . . . 

so complete, you'll get all cables, box of 10 
floppy disks, and EVEN a box of 3500 shts. 
fanfold paper. 

OVER $3500 OF SOFTWARD 
INCLUDED!!! 

Digital Research's 2.0 CP/M Disk Operating 
System, Microsoft 80 BASIC Interpreter - 



AND one of the finest Business Packages 
— from Retail Science's | 

PEACHTREE SOFTWARE 
which includes 

• GENERAL LEDGER 

• ACCOUNTS RECEIVABL 

• ACCOUNTS PAYABLE 

• INVENTORY I ?E AStfM II 

• PAYROLL 




SDFTWAFE 



The SYSTEM B doubles as an excellent 
Word Processing System (software at 
slight additional cost). 

System may be expanded for multi- 
user time-sharing data and word 
processing — up to 5 terminals — 
at nominal cost. 

Third-party maintenance agreements 
being negotiated. 

All prices subject to change and all offers 
subject to withdrawal without notice. 

write for free catalog 

MiniMicroMart 

1618 James St., Syracuse NY 13203 
(31 5) 422-4467 TWX 71 0-541 -0431 



50 primitive routines. Nothing has to 
be altered in the second-level routines 
nor in the procedures that call them. 
Thus, changing the form of the data is 
a relatively easy task. Each data 
structure area has its own primitive 
and second-level routines that per- 
form all manipulations on them. 

Let me now discuss the actual data 
structures which I chose to use. Since 
I was designing the project using the 
FORTRAN language, arrays were a 
natural choice. For clarity, the 
packed arrays are separated into 
single arrays containing one integer 
each. 

The Score Area 

The score area consists of four sets 
of arrays which are linked together as 
a doubly-linked list. This structure 
allows easy determination of the loca- 
tion of any measure in the score. I 
will discuss each of these arrays. 

1. The Page Array 

The page array contains a pointer 
(index) to the first line of that page. 
Figure 4 shows that the first page 
starts with line one (always the case) 
and the second page starts with the 
fifth line. Since the number of lines 
per page is determined when the user 
specifies the size of the staff, you 
might think that the array could be 
eliminated with a simple division. In 
the actual design, however, the page 
array also contains information used 
to determine if the page had been 
edited, and would thus need to be 
reformatted. It is included here for 
clarity. 

2. The Line Array 

Each line contains a pointer to the 
page that it belongs to and also to its 
first measure. Also contained is the 
scale factor for the line, which will be 
used when displaying the line on the 
screen . Later we will show the 
algorithm for calculating this factor 
and its use. Figure 4 shows that the 
fifth line belongs to the second page, 
that it starts with the fourteenth 
measure, and that it has a scale factor 
of 1.01. 

3. The Measure Array 

The measure array contains three 
pointers. One points back to the line 
array, one to the first character of the 
measure in the character array, and 



one to the first character that will be 
drawn on the screen in the screen ar- 
ray. 

4. The Character Array 

All of the information about the 
measure is contained in these arrays. 
The first two elements of these arrays 
are a pointer back to the measure ar- 
ray and the virtual length of the 
measure (later to be defined and 
calculated). The rest of the array con- 
tains codes and integers that identify 
the symbol, its X and Y location coor- 
dinates, and its duration (if it is a note 
or rest). Note that the ordering of the 
measures in the character array is not 
necessarily sequential. The example 
shows that the third measure, loca- 
tions 35 thru 60, comes between the 
first, 1 thru 20, and the second, 101 
thru 150. The reasons for this will be 
clear when the free area is discussed. 

The doubly linked nature of the 
data allows you to easily answer 
questions concerning the location of 
pages, lines, and measures. For exam- 
ple, the page and line that contain 
measure 15 can be determined by 
tracing the pointers in measure 15 to 
line 5, and tracing the pointer in line 5 
to page 2. It is clear that all such ques- 
tions can be answered in this manner. 
I will show the use of this feature 
when I discuss the commands of the 
editor. 

The Screen Area 

The screen array contains informa- 
tion used when the score is displayed 
on the screen. Remember that the 
measure array contains a pointer to 
the screen area which identifies the 
screen locations containing the 
characters for that measure. Likewise 
the screen array contains a pointer to 
the measure array. The rest of the in- 
formation in the screen array consists 
of the X and Y location of a symbol to 
be drawn on the screen, and a code 
which denotes the character to be 
drawn. The editor has a procedure 
that takes all of the information 
about one measure in the character 
array and translates it into the form 
required by the screen array. The 
screen array also has a nonsequential 
placement of measures like the 
character array. 

The Work Area 

The work area contains two sets of 



The VIP hobby computer 
Start programming for only $99. 




*99. 



New! VP 111 
Microcomputer 
Assembled* and tested. 

Features: 

• RCA 1 802 Microprocessor. 

• 1 K Bytes static RAM. 
Expandable on-board to 4K. 
Expandable to 32 K Bytes total. 

• 51 2 Byte ROM operating system. 

• CHIP-8 interpretive language or 
machine language programmable. 

• Hexidecimal keypad. 

• Audio tone generator. 

• Single 5-volt operation. 

• Video output to monitor or modulator. 

• Cassette interface— 100 Bytes/sec. 

• Instruction Manual with 5 video game 
listings, schematics, CHIP-8, much more! 

Ideal for low-cost control applications. 

Expandable to full VIP capability with 

VP-114 Kit 

*User need only connect cables (included), a 
5-volt power supply, and speaker. 



$ 199. 



New low price! 
The original VIP 
Completely assembled 
and tested. 

All the features of the VP-1 1 1 plus: 

• A total of 2K Bytes static RAM. 

• Power supply. 

• 8 Bit input port. 

• 8 Bit output port. 

• I/O port connector. 

• System expansion connector. 

• Built-in speaker. 

• Plastic cover. 

Three comprehensive manuals: 

• VIP instruction Manual— 20 video 
game listings, schematics, much more. 

• VIP User's Guide— operating instruc- 
tions and CHIP-8 for the beginner. 

• RCA 1 802 User's Manual (MPM- 
201 B) - complete 1 802 referenceguide. 




COSMAC VIP lets you add 
computer power a board 
at a time. 

With easy-to-buy options, the versatile 
RCA COSMAC VIP means even more 
excitement. More challenges in 
graphics, games and control functions. 
For everyone, from youngster to serious 
hobbyist. 

Built around an RCA COSMAC micro- 
processor, the VIP is easy to program 
and operate. Powerful CHIP-8 inter- 
pretive language gets you into 
programming the first evening. 
Complete documentation provided. 

Send the coupon now . . . 

Complete the coupon below and mail to: 
RCA VIP Customer Service, New 
Holland Avenue, Lancaster, PA 1 7604. 

Or call toll free (800) 233-0094 

to place your Master Charge or VISA 
credit card order. In Pennsylvania, 
call (71 7) 397-7661 , extension 31 79. 



Please send me the RCA COSMAC VIP items indicated. 
Type Description Price 

□ VP-1 11 New low cost Microcomputer 

(See description above) $99 

□ VP-114 Expansion Kit for VP-t 11— Includes 

3K RAM, I/O Port and connectors... $76 

□ VP-711 VIP— The original VIP Microcomputer 

(See description above) $199 

D VP-44 RAM On-Board Expansion Kit— Four 
2114 RAM ICs, Expands VP 71 1 
memory to 4K bytes $ 36 

□ VP-590 VIP Color Board— Converts VIP to 

color. Four background and eight 
foreground colors..... $ 69 

□ VP-595 VIP Simple Sound Board— Provides 

256 programmable frequencies. For 

simple music or sound effects. 

Includes speaker $ 30 

□ VP-550 VIP SuperSound Board— Turns your 

VIP into a music synthesizer! Two 
independent sound channels. On- 
board tempo control. Outputs to 
audio system $ 49 

□ VP-570 VIP Memory Expansion Board— 

Plug-in 4K RAM memory. $ 95 

□ VP-580 VIP Auxiliary Keypad— Adds two- 

player interactive capability. 1 6-key 
keypad with cable. Connects to 

sockets on VP-590 or VP-585 $ 20 

D VP-585 VIP Keypad Interface Board— Inter- 
faces two VP-580 Auxiliary 
KeypadstoVIP $ 15 



D VP-560 VIP EPROM Board— Interfaces two 

2716EPROMstoVIP. $ 34 

□ VP-565 VIP EPROM Programmer Board- 

Programs 271 6 EPROMs. 

With software $ 99 

□ VP-575 VIP Expansion Board— Provides 4 

buffered and one unbuffered 

expansion sockets $ 59 

D VP-576 VIP Two-Board Expander— Allows 
use of 2 Accessory Boards in either 
I/O or Expansion Socket $ 20 

D VP-601 ASCII Keyboard— 128-character 
ASCII Encoded alphanumeric 
keyboard $ 65 



Enclosed is $_ 



D VP-611 ASCII/Numeric Keyboard— Same 
as VP-601 plus 1 6 key numeric 
keypad $ 80 

□ VP-620 Cable: Connects ASCII keyboards 

to VIP $ 20 

D VP-700 VIP Tiny BASIC ROM Board— BASIC 

code stored in 4K of ROM $ 39 

D VP-710 VIP Game Manual— Listing for 16 

exciting games $ 10 

D VP-720 VIP Game Manual-ll— More exciting 

games (Available 2nd qtr. '80) $ 10 

□ MPM- CDP1 802 User Manual— (Included 
201B with VP-711) $ 5 

□ Please send more information — 



for items checked plus shipping & handling charge of $3.00. 

Add your state and local taxes $ Total enclosed $ 

I enclose □ check orD money order or, charge my D VISA/ Bank Americard 

□ Master Charge. 

Credit card account No 



Master Charge Interbank No 

Signature (required for credit card orders): 

Name (please type or print): ^__ 

Street address: 

State & Zip: 



.Expiration date:. 



City: 

Telephone: ( 



Make checks payable to RCA Corp. Prices and specifications are subject to change 
without notice. 



Circle 78 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 137 



PAGE 
PAGE 



LINE 



LINE SCALE 



SCORE AREA 



ME A SURE 



CHAR- 
LINE SCREEN ACTER 



CM A RA C TER 
XLOC YLOC LENGTH SYMBOL 



FREE AREA 



CHAR- 
ACTER LENGTH 



1 


1 


l.l 


1 


4 


1.5 


1 


7 


1 


1 


1 1 


13 


2 


14 


1. 01 


2 


17 


1.1 


2 


19 


1.02 


2 


23 


1.6 









■+ »■ 1 

-* 2 

\^ 3 

*4 

*I4 
15 
16 


1 


Z \ 


1 


1 


7 ?\ 


101 


1 


V 


35 


2 


\ 


\ 




\ 


\ 


5 




\ \ 


5 




\ \ 


5 




\ \ 






\ \ 




ZYZZZZZZZTZZZZZZZZ 



60 t 



150 



WORK AREA 



FROM SCORE 
XLOC YLOC LENGTH SYMBOL 



FROM SCREEN 

XLOC YLOC CODE 




^///>////l///y^//7 




SCREEN AREA 



XLOC YLOC CODE 





w* 










w^m 









SCREEN LENGTH 
20 



45 



30 



Figure 4: Data structure within the music editor showing the various areas and pointers used in the system. The score area consists 
of four arrays linked together as a doubly linked list. This allows the user to determine the location of any measure in the score 
easily. The work area consists of two sets of arrays. One set contains information from the character arrays. The other set contains 
information about a measure in screen format. The screen area contains information used when the score is displayed on the screen. 
The free area contains two sets of arrays used to store measures efficiently in the character array and to consolidate fragmented free 
areas in storage. 



arrays. One set contains information 
from the character array about a 
measure. The format of this informa- 
tion is similar to that of the character 
arrays. The other set of arrays con- 
tains information about a measure in 
screen format. When editing or 
creating a measure, the changes are 
made in the work arrays. Any 
changes made to the score must be 
made in the score section of the work 
area and also in the screen area so 
that the new measure can be 
displayed to the user. When the user 
decides that the measure should be 
permanent, the contents of the work 
area must be transferred to the 
character and screen arrays with all 
format changes, and the pointers in 
the measure array must be adjusted. 
Placement of the new measure in both 
the character and screen arrays is 
done with a storage allocation pro- 
cedure that manages the storage in 

138 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



both of these arrays. 

The Free Area 

The free area contains two sets of 
arrays. The first set contains informa- 
tion about the free space in the 
character array. It contains a pointer 
to the first free word of storage, and 
an integer representing the number of 
words of the free area. Figure 4 shows 
two free areas in the character arrays 
(indicated by the darkened areas). 
One starts at index 20 and contains 
fifteen words, the other at index 60 
with forty-one words. If a measure is 
created or edited and the user wishes 
to make it a permanent part of the 
score, a storage procedure determines 
the length of the measure in the work 
area and then scans the free area for a 
contiguous area of storage that is at 
least that length. It then transfers the 
measure from the work area to that 
location and adjusts the values in the 



free arrays. The description for the 
second set of arrays in the free area, 
those for the free areas of the screen 
array, is completely analogous. After 
editing a score for an extended period 
of time, the character and screen ar- 
rays will be fragmented with many 
areas of space that are too small to be 
useful. This point is detected by the 
editor, and the routines that compact 
the space, leaving only one large area 
of free storage, are executed automa- 
tically. 

In part 2 of this article I shall give 
details of the routines which perform 
the editing. ■ 



Reference 
Read, Gardner. Music Notation: A Manual of 
Modern Practice, second edition, Crescendo 
Publishing Company, Boston, 1969. ISBN 
0-87597-080-X 



Control th 





MINT 

Busy BOX 

Home control unit for the personal computer! 

Interface your computer to the BSR X-10 or Sears Home Control system and control appliances, lamps, and wall 
switches. 

Designed by Steve Clarcia. featured in January. 1980 BYTE. 

Assembled and tested Interface, in attractive 8.25 x 6 x 2.5 inch Plastic case, with cable and connector for TRS-80* 
keyboard or expansion Interface, power supply, and manual including BASIC listing for simple control routine for 4K. 
Level II minimum system. $104.95. 

Four year control program, rewires expansion interface for real time clock, on BASIC cassette. SI 9.95. 

Package PK 500: BSR X-10 Command Console, cordless controller, two lamp modules and one appliance module. 
$124.99. 

Separate Prices: UC 301 Command Console. S49.95: CC 401 Cordless Remote Controller. $24.99: LM 501 Lamp 
i. SI6.99: AM 601 Appliance Module. $16.99: WS 701 Wall Switch Module. $16.99. 

Note: Voor BOSV BOX will not worftwltli the Radio Stack Home Controller, a rtlpped down verton of Ac BSR X-10. 




Shipping costs are not included in prices. 
To order, call TOLL FREE 1-800-258-1790. (in nh can 673-si44) 

6 SOUTH STREET. MILFORO. NH 03055 For more Information, call (603)673-5144 



TRS-80* COMPUTERS: our price 

Level 1. 4K $499.00 $449.00 

Level II. 4K $619.00 $559.00 

Level II. I6K. no keypad $669.00 

Level II. 16K. w keypad $849.00 $769.00 

EXPANSION INTERFACES: 

Exp. Int.. no RAM $299.00 $269.00 

Exp. Int.. 16K RAM. (NEC) $448.00 $369.00 

Exp. Int.. 32K RAM. (NEC) $597.00 $459.00 

DISK DRIVES: 

Percom. TFO-100. 40-tracks $399.00.... $389.00 

Percom. Dual TFD-100's $795.00 $775.00 

Percom. TFD-200. 77-tracks $675.00.... $625.00 
Percom. Dual TFD-200's $ 1 350.00 $ 1 250.00 

DISK DRIUE ACESSORIES: 

2-drive cable for TRS-80* $29.95 $29.00 

4-drive cable for TRS-80* $39.95 $39.00 

Percom Data Separator $29.95 

Extender Card $15.95 $15.00 



We Buy and Sell Used TRS-80 4 



PRINTERS: our price 

Centronics 730 $999.00 $846.00 

Centronics 753-2 $3196.00 $2750.00 

Centronics 779-2 $1559.00 $1064.00 

RS Quick Printer II $219.00.. $197.00 

RS Line Printer III $1960.00 __ $1813.00 

LRC 7000+(20.32 or 40 col.) $389.... $369.00 
LRC 70004(64 column) $405.00 $389.00 

PRINTER CABLES: 

QPII to Exp. Int. cable $19.00 

LRC to TRS-80* cable $20.00 

730 to TRS-80* cable.... $29.00 

779 or 753 to TRS-80* cable $35.00 

PERIPHERALS: 

Novation CAT Modem $199.95 $179.00 

RS-232-C Interface Board $99.00..... $89.00 

TRS-232 Printer Interface $49.95 

Data Dubber. $49.95 

I6K Memory Upgrade Kit. Keyboard... $99.00 

16K Memory Upgrade Kit. E.I. $95.00 

Percom Electric Crayon $249.95 

Busy Box $104.95 

Ask for our FREE catalog! 



*TRS-«o Is a trademark of Radio Shack and Tandy Corp.. 



Circle 79 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 139 



32 K RAM UPGRADE 
To 64 K only $250.00 
when purchased with a 
Superbrain $2995 
$350.00 separately 




SUPRBRAIN 



TM 



The Honor Graduate 



OEM's... 
End Users . . . 
Computer Dealers. 




I 



"Superbrain is a registered trademark of Intertec Data Systems. 



System Specifications 



SuperBrain users get exceptional 
performance for just a fraction of what 
they'd expect to pay. Standard system 
features include: two double density mini- 
floppies with 285 K bytes of disk storage, 
32K of RAM memory to handle even the 
most sophisticated programs, a CP/M Disk 
Operating System with a high powered text 
editor, assembler, debugger and a disk 
formator. And, with SuperBrain's S- 1 00 bus 
adaptor, you can add all the programming 
power you will ever need . . . even a 1 
megabyte disk! 

SuperBrain's CP/M operating system boasts 
an overwhelming amount of available 
software in BASIC, FORTRAN, COBOL, and 
APL. Whatever your application . . . General 
Ledger, Accounts Receivable, Payroll, 
Inventory or Word Processing . . . SuperBrain 
is tops in its class. But best of all, SuperBrain 
tackles your toughest jobs for less than one- 
third the cost of other similar systems. 

You'll appreciate the careful attention given 
to every engineering detail. Standard 
SuperBrain features include: a full ASCII 
keyboard with numeric pad and user-pro- 
grammable function keys. A non-glare, 
dynamically focused, 1 2 -inch CRT for sharp 
images everywhere on the screen. Twin Z80 
microprocessors to insure efficient data 
transfer to auxiliary peripheral devices. A 
universal RS-232 communications port for 
serial data transmission. And, a single board 
design to make servicing a snap! 

Performance and packaging have never 
been better matched. Your operators will 
appreciate SuperBrain's good looks. You'll 
appreciate SuperBrain's outstanding value. 
Twin Z80A processors, dual double density 
disk drives, and a high resolution CRT 
terminal. All in a single, smart looking, self- 
contained desktop unit. And, all for a price 
that's substantially less than the competition! 

Make no mistake about it. The freshman 
students in the small systems business can't 
begin to compete with this year's honor 
graduate. The SuperBrain. The only system 
at the top of its class in price and performance 

DEALER/OEM QUANTITIES AND SPECIAL PRICING AVAILABLE VIA MICROAMERICA DISTRIBUTING 



Microprocessors 



Word Size 
Execution Time 
Machine Instructions 
Interrupt Mode 

Floppy Disk 

Storage Capacity 

(Shugart drives) 

Data Transfer Rate 

Average Access Time 

Media 

Disk Rotation 

Internal Memory 
Dynamic RAM 
Static RAM 

ROM Storage 



Display Size 

Display Format 

Character Font 

Line Drawing Characters 

Display Presentation 

Bandwidth 

Communications 

Screen Data Transfer 

Auxiliary Interface 

Parallel Interface 

S-100 Bus 

Transparent Mode 

Parity 

Transmission Mode 

Addressable Cursor 
System Utilities 

Disk Operating System 

DOS Software 
Optional Software 

FORTRAN 

COBOL 

BASIC 

Application Packages 



Keyboard 

Alphanumeric Character 
Special Features 
Numeric Pad 
Special Functions Keys 
Cursor Control 
Internal Construction 
Cabinetry 
Component Layout 



Mounting 

Environment 

Weight 

Physical Dimensions 

Environment 

Power Requirements 



Twin 280As with 4MHZ Clock Frequency One Z80A (the host processor) performs all 

processor and screen related functions The second Z80A is "down- loaded" by the host to 

execute disk I/O When not processing disk data, the second Z80 may be programmed by 

the host for other processor related functions 

8 bits 

1 microseconds register to register 

158 

All interrupts are vectored 

285K total bytes formatted on two double density drives Optional external 1 0-300 

megabyte hard disk storage is available using optional S- 1 00 bus adaptor 

250K bits 'second 

250 milliseconds 35 milliseconds track-to-track 

5/4 inch mini-disk 

300 RPM 

32K bytes dynamic RAM (standard) 32K memory upgrade available. 

256 bytes of static RAM is provided in addition to the main processor RAM This memory 

is used for program and/or data storage for the auxiliary processor 

1 K bytes standard Allows ROM bootstrapping' of system at power-on ROM storage is 

2708 compatible and may be reprogrammed by the user for custom applications. 

12-inch, dynamically focused P4 phosphor 

25 lines x 80 characters per line 

8x8 character matrix on a 8 x 12 character field 

Eleven special graphics symbols used for form generation 

Light characters on a dark background Reversible through keyboard program selection 

20 MHZ 

Reversed image (block cursor) 

Memory-mapped at 38 kilobaud Serial transmission of data at rates up to 9600 bps 

Universal RS-232 asynchronous Synchronous interface optional 

Radio Shack TRS-80 compatible 

Printed circuit edge connector provided for connection of optional S-100 bus adaptor 

Enables display of all incoming and outgoing control codes 

Choice of even. odd. marking, or spacing 

Half or Full Duplex One or two stop bits 

Direct positioning by either discrete or absolute addressing 

CP'M 

An 8080 disk assembler, debugger, text editor and file handling utilities 

ANSI standard Relocatable, random and sequential disk access 

ANSI standard Relocatable, sequential, relative and indexed disk access 

Sequential and random disk access Full string manipulation, interpreter 

Extensive software development tools are available including software for the following 

applications Payroll. Accounts Receivable, Accounts Payable. Inventory Control. General 

Ledger and Word Processing 

Generates all 1 28 upper and lower case ASCII characters. 

N-Key Rollover, Automatic repeat (at 15 CPS), Keyboard lock/unlock 

0-9, decimal point, comma, minus and four user-programmable function keys 

Up to 64 user-defined two-key function sequences 

Up. down, forward, backward, and home 

Structural foam 

Two board modular design All processor related functions and hardware are on a single 
printed circuit board All video and power related circuits on a separate single board 
These two boards are interconnected via a single 22-pin ribbon cable. 
CRT and two circuit boards mounted to base CRT in a rigid steel frame Disk Drive assem- 
bly mounted into upper cover for ease of servicing. 

Approximately 45 pounds 

14 Ife" (H) x 21 *•" tW) x 23 h (D) 

Operating to 50 C Storage to 85 C, 10to95%rel humidity - non condensing 

1 15 VAC. 60 HZ. 1 AMP {optional 230VAC/50HZ model available) 

" Specifications suhiec i h t'hdnge without notice 




NEECO 



Mon-Fri 9:30-5:30 
MasterCharge & 
Visa Accepted 



Microcomputer Systems Division 



679 Highland Ave. 

Needham, MA -_-_. M M ^ -_ -- 

02194 (617)449-1760 

Telex: 951021 



MICROAMEEIGA DISTRIBUTING 

"SuperBrain Dealer/O.E.M. Inquiries invited" 

21 Putnam Street 

Needham, MA ******* * mm* ***** 

02194 (617) 449-4310 

Circle 265 for microamerica 



140 BYTE April 1980 



Circle 80 for NEECO 



MORE COLOR. MORE SOUND. 
MORE PERSONAL/BUSINESS POWER. 




Compare the built-in features of 
leading microcomputers with the 
Atari personal computers. And go 
ahead, compare apples and 
oranges. Their most expensive 
against our least expensive: the 
ATARI® 400™. 

Start with graphics capabilities. 
The ATARI 400 offers 128 color 
variations. 16 colors in 8 
luminance levels. Plus 29 
keystroke graphics symbols and 8 
graphics modes. All controlled 
from a full 57 key ASCII keyboard. 
With upper and lower case. And 
the system is FCC approved with a 
built-in RF modulator. That's just 
for openers. 



Now, compare sound capabili- 
ties. Four separate sound channels 
and a built-in speaker. With the 
optional audio/digital recorder, 
you can add Atari's unique Talk & 
Teach™ Educational System 
cassettes. 

Here's the clincher: Solid state 
(ROM) software. For home 
management, business and enter- 
tainment. Or just plug in an Atari 
10K BASIC or Assembler language 
cartridge and the full power of the 
computer is in your hands. 

Memory? 8K expandable to 16K. 
And that's just for the ATARI 400 
at a suggested retail of only 
$599 99 

The ATARI® 800™ gives you all 
that and much more. 



User-installable memory to 48K. 
A full-stroke keyboard. 

With a high-speed serial I/O port 
that allows you to add a whole 
family of smart peripherals. 
Including up to four individually 
accessible disk drives. And a high 
speed dot-matrix impact printer. 
And, the Ata'ri Program Recorder 
is included with the 800 system. 
Suggested retail price for the 
ATARI 800 (including recorder) is 
$999.99. 

Make your own comparison 
wherever personal computers are 
sold. 

Or, send for a free chart that 
compares the built-in features of 
the ATARI 400 and 800 to other 
leading personal computers. 



Atari promises to be the most popular Personal Computer System of the 
1980's! Feel free to contact us for Atari literature. 



H 



NEECO 

679 Highland Ave. 
Needham, MA 
02194 



Customer Sales: 
NEECO 

679 Highland Ave., Needham, MA 02194 
(617)449-1760 



Circle 81 for NEECO 



Dealer Sales: 
Microamerlca Distributing 

21 Putnum St., Needham, MA 02194 
(617)449-4310 

Circle 266 for microamerica 



BYTE April 1980 141 



The Great Race 
and Micro Disk Files 

Horse Race Simulations 



The purpose of this article is to pre- 
sent a sophisticated horse racing 
game and to demonstrate the use of 
sequential and random access disk 
files. The first part of the article will 
describe the racing simulation, while 
the second part will detail the imple- 
mentation of disk files, including the 
computer time required for certain 
operations. In addition, the second 
part will illustrate how the horse 
racing model can be utilized without 
using disk files, while limiting the 
memory requirements. 

The Race game was written in 
North Star BASIC for a system 
having an 8080 processor, a video ter- 
minal, and 32 K bytes of memory. 
The program contains numerous sub- 
routines, and memory can be saved 
by eliminating some of them. 
However, each deletion of a sub- 
routine will also cause the loss of one 
of the game's features. 

Listing 1 shows the available free 
memory (19,756 bytes) after loading 
BASIC and before program RACE is 
entered. Once RACE is entered and 
the RUN command is typed, the com- 
puter begins to solicit information 
that is necessary for the program's 
execution. A random number (the 
sample shows 7 being input) and the 
number of horses in the simulation 
are requested. The number of horses 
can range anywhere from one to 
forty. However, a minimum of four 
horses is necessary to simulate the 
running of most races. In addition, 
the program always uses an even 
number of horses. Therefore, all odd 

142 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Joseph J Roehrig 

JJR Data Research 

FOB 74 

Middle Village NY 11379 



numbered responses are incremented 
by 1. The next entry is for the file 
name containing the data. RACE-D is 
input for the sample run (the setup of 
this file and the file structure will be 
discussed later). 

All of the preliminary data is now 
input and the user is ready to choose 
any one of four possible actions: to 
end, 1 for a list of horses, 2 for 
statistics, or 3 to run a race. In listing 
1, a "1" is input. This causes the free 
memory space to be printed (now 
only 3726 bytes, telling us that the 
program is already occupying 16,030 
bytes of memory), along with a list of 
the horses. An identification number, 
name, races run, races won, races 
placed second, races finished third 
and dollars earned is printed for each 
horse. All results in the sample are 
zero because we started with a blank 
file: RACE-D. 

After printing the requested data, 
the computer branches back to the 
action code selection area. This time a 
race is the desired action and a "3" is 
input. The computer prints the six 
types of races that can be run, the 
possible distances (six to twelve 
furlongs with a furlong equaling % of 
a mile), and the maximum number of 
horses: twelve. The minimum num- 
ber of horses for all types of races is 
four, except for the condition which 
corresponds to a workout, in which 
one horse is the minimum. Historical 
data is maintained for all races except 
workouts. The sample input is 4,8,12, 
corresponding to a maiden race (only 
horses who have never won a race are 



eligible) of eight furlongs, with a 
maximum of twelve horses being 
entered. The computer then branches 
to the automatic horse selection por- 
tion of the program. This mode is 
always entered for maiden and condi- 
tioned races and can be optionally 
used for other types of races. 

In the automatic mode, the com- 
puter selects the horses to be entered 
into the race. The horses with the 
highest earnings-per-race ratio be- 
tween two user-supplied identifica- 
tion numbers are selected. There are 
two exceptions: in maiden races only 
nonwinners can be chosen, and for 
handicap races the horses with the 
least earnings-per-race ratio are pick- 
ed. Listing 1 shows the computer ask- 
ing for the start and end identification 
numbers for the search and the user 
supplying "0,8". This response offers 
only nine possible horses for the race 
(the horses from identification 
number to number 8). The program 
selects all nine horses, since none 
have ever won, or for that matter 
entered a race. 

A list of the entries is then printed, 
giving the post positions, names, 
weights, odds, and historical data. 
The weights will always be 120 
pounds, with the exception of 
allowance and handicap races where 
the computer calculates weights to 
handicap the horses. The odds are 
given as odds to win against each 
dollar bet. Therefore, odds of $5 pay 
$12 for a successful $2 win bet. 

At this point the user can decide to 

Text continued on page 146 



Listing 1: This listing shows a request first for a list of horses, and then calls to start a race. In response to that request, the user must 
specify the type of race, the distance, and the number of horses in the race. Finally, the user must provide the start and end point for a 
search for eligible horses. A list of entries and statistics are then displayed for each horse in the race. Now hit the return key and 

"They're off!" 



!FREE<0> 






19756 






READY 






LOAD RACE 






READY 






RUN 






RANDOM HUM ? 7 






* OF HORSES ? 12 






file: race -d 






1 FOR LIST OF HORSES 






2 FOR STATISTICS 






3 FOR RACE 






TO END ? 1 3726 






ID NAME R# 1 2 3 $ WON ID NAME R# 1 2 


3 


$ WON 


:::; =5 S :::: :::: -:: ss :::: :::: :::: SS ::~ := :::: 55 :::: :::: :::: :::: :::: :::: ::" :::: ::~ ::" :::: ::" SK :::: ::" :~: "" "- :::: "" :::: :::: ::~ :.~ :::: :.:: :::: :::; :™ :t. :::: :::; :::: :::: :•;: :::: :::; :::. :::; :::. ;::: :::: :::: 


::::::::::::::::::::::: 


I::::::::::::;:;::::-::::::::™ ::=:::: 


DUCKPASSER $0* 6 SECRET AR IT 





$0* 


1 DAMASCUS $0* 7 FOOLISH PL 





$0* 


2 DR FAGER— $0* S RUFFIAN- 





$0* 


3 RIVA RIDGE $0* 9 BOLD RULER 





$0* 


4 SUE'S GIRL $0* .1.0 GALLANT MA 





$0* 


5 FOREGO $0, .1.1 ROUND TABL 





$0* 


READY TO RETURN ? 






1 FOR LIST OF HORSES 






2 FOR STATISTICS 






3 FOR RACE 






TO END ? 3 3669 






TYPES ARE l-STAKES 2^ALL0WANCE 3^C0NDITI0NED 4^MAIDEN 5-HANDICAI" 


6 -WORKOUT 


DISTANCE- 6 TO 12 FURLONGS MAXIMUM HORSES - 1.2 






TYPE, DISTANCE v HORSES? 4,8,12 






ID START & ID END SEARCH ? 0,9 






POST 1 RUFFIAN 






POST 2 FOOLISH PL 






POST 3 SECRETARIT 






POST 4 FOREGO 






POST 15 SUE'S GIRL 






POST 6 RIUA RIDGE 






POST 7 DR EAGER 






POST 8 DAMASCUS 






POST 9 DUCKPASSER 






THIS IS A S FURLONG MAIDEN RACE WITH A PURSE OF $ 31000 






POST NAME UGH ODDS R# 1ST 2ND 3RD EARNINGS 






1 RUFFIAN- 120 $5*00 $0* 






2 FOOLISH PL 120 $16*40 $0* 






3 SECRETARIT 120 $4,00 $0* 






4 FOREGO 120 $5 ♦SO $0* 






5 SUE'S GIRL 120 $68*60 $0* 






6 RIVA RIDGE 120 $5*00 $0* 






7 DR EAGER 120 $4*00 $0* 






8 DAMASCUS 120 $8*80 $0* 






9 DUCKPASSER 120 $5*80 $0* 






RETURN FOR RACE OR ANYTHING TO KILL ? 







April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 143 



Listing 2: The running of the first race. The • markings on the track indicate the furlong divisions. The I markings form the finish line. 
The results below the track are printed upon completion of the race, then the newly created data is stored on file RACE-D. 



* •> 4 4 4 / 

4*444 4 4 4444 4 444***44444*4*4*444***44*4444*444***4 O 4 4*4 






* 4 4 * * i::- 

44**44 4 4*4** 4*444 4 44444444 4 444444444444 4 44444*4*444 -,J*4«4 


* 4 




v * q J. 4 A 
4 4 4444444444444444444 4 4 444 4 4 ',.) 4 v 4 v * v 4 4 4 4 i- 4 * * 4 * * * 4 4 4 > • 4 *% 4 * > 4 


4 4 4: 




* ♦ *y ♦ + -y q 

4*44 4 4444444 4 * * 4 4 4 4 * 44444***** j* ****** # 4 4 V ****** * 4*44 ♦ » 4 %3>T ♦ ♦ ♦ 


♦ 444*4 




****44"' l T**444 4 44*4444 4 4 4 * 4 4 4 * #' j& O * V ♦ * ♦ '♦ * # ♦ " ♦. # * # ♦. * # 444 4 4 4 4 4a'.. 8*44 


4 4 4 4 v :■ 




* ♦ * 4 6 3 / *.. 4 4 x'V 4 4 4 4 4 * 4 4 4 4 4 4 ♦ 4 4 4 4 4 1 3 * 4 D 4 4 4 4 v 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 * 4 4 4 4 4 4 * J. / 4 4 4 


4 4 4 4 :■ 4 




4 4 4 4 O / 


♦ 4 * 4 4 4 




4 4 4 , * jj 4 .1. 


4 4 * ♦ 4 ■: 




4 4 4 4 4 4 


4 4 4 4 4 4 




4 4 4 4 4 4 D A M A S C U S ( # 8 ) R I. J F F I A N •■ ( # 1 ) 


4 4 4 4 
♦ 4 4 4 


» 4 


4 4 4 4 4 4 S E C R E T A R I T ( • 3 > F 1... I B H 1"' L ( # 2 ) 


4 4 4 4 


» * 


4 4 4 4 4 4 F R £ G • ( # 4 ) S U E ' 8 G I R 1... ( • 5 ) 


4 4 4* 


- * 


4 4 4 4 4 4 BUCKPASSER(# 9) 


* * * 4 


■ * 


4 4 4 4 4 4 DR FAGER C# 7) 


♦ * 4 4 


f 4 


t tt t it RIUA RIDGE Cf 6> 


4 4 4 4 


» 4 


4 4 4 4 4 4 


4 4 4 4 4 4 




4 4 4 4 4 4 


4 4 4 4 4 4 




4 4 4 4 4 4 


4 4 4 4 4 4 




'* V A O a' "1 * T "1 "7 "X * * 
444444444 a.', 4 *T A O ■ 1. 44444444 4 44444 4 44444. 1. .1. / 44 v. J 4444444444444444444 


****** 




4 44444444 \J 4444 CJ 44444444444444444444 ■. J O "/ 44 1*5 4444444444444444444 


****** 




4 "X 4 ■■> A 4 ♦ 

44444444444444 \.) 444444444 4 44 4 4444444 a'.. 4 "V 44 4 44444 4 4 4444 4 4444444 


4 4 4 4 4 4 




4 •■/ 4 j- 4 * 
444444444 4 44/ 44444444444 v 4444 4 444. 1. 44 4 44 4 44 4 4 44444444444444 


• ♦ ♦ 4 




4 4 I' 4 ♦ 
4444444444444444444444444444444. 1. 4444 4 4 444 4 4 444444*44 4 -44 


4 * 




4 4 T * ♦ 

44****444444444**44444444444 4. 1. 44444*444 444*44 4 4*444444 


7 




ID NAME WT P S H S F BY L MJBSJ- GDDS 






:::: ;::: :::: ;::: ::r :::: .::: :::: :::: :::: :::: :::: SS :::: :::: :::: :::; :::: :::: :::: :::: :::: :::: ::: :::: :::: :::: "" ::" :::: ":: :::: :::: :::: ::" :::: ":: ::: :=" ::~ :::: :::: :~: :::: SS "" :::: :::: ::" :::: "" :«: :«" :::: 






I DAMASCUS 120 8 3 3 3 I BY ,1*33*2 S4SO 






6 SECRET AR IT 120 3 6 4 2 2 BY 1*33*2 4*00 






5 FGREGG 120 4 8 6 7 3 BY 3 1*34*0 S-80 






BUCKPASSER 120 ? 7 7 6 4 BY 3 1*34*0 5*80 






2 DR FAGER 120 7 4 5 1 5 BY 3 1*34*0 4*00 






3 RIVA RIDGE 120 6 5 2 5 6 BY 4 1*34*1 5*00 






8 RUFFIAN 120 1 2 1 4 7 BY 4 1*34*1 5*00 






7 FOOLISH PL 120 2 1 8 9 8 BY 5 1*34*2 16 4 40 






4 SUE'S GIRL 120 5 9 9 8 9 BY 5 1*34,2 68*60 






POST WIN PLACE SHOW 






8 :l>19*60 $10*80 $3*40 






3 $6*00 $2*80 






4 $3*00 






READY? 






1 FGR LIST OF HORSES 






2 FGR STATISTICS 






3 FOR RACE 






TO END ? 3453 






READY 


~ 





144 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 82 on inquiry card. 



The Dynamic RAM 




you've been waiting for. 



QUALITY 

For years you've looked to Industrial Micro 
Systems for quality SI 00 Static RAM boards. Now 
that same quality is available in the Model 460, 
our new Dynamic RAM board. The 460 combines 
the low power consumption and lower cost of 
dynamic RAM with Industrial Micro Systems high 
standard of quality and reliability. 



PARITY 

To ensure data reliability, the Model 460 is 
equipped with parity. The parity error line is shunt 
selectable to a number of interrupt lines for soft- 
ware control, or it can halt the CPU in a wait state. 
An LED on the board is lit when a parity error 



MEMORY MANAGEMENT 

The Model 460 is organized into 4 blocks of 
16K bytes each. Each block is individually 
selectable under program control for memory 
management beyond 64K. 

HIGH PERFORMANCE FEATURES 

The Model 460 operates at 4MHZ with no wait 
states. It also utilizes on board "hidden refresh" 



Parity, memory management Industrial Micro 
Systems quality... its all here. 

You've waited long enough for a quality SI 00 
Dynamic RAM board. See your Industrial Micro 
Systems Dealer today. 



INDUSTRIAL MICRO SYSTEMS 



Marketing Office 
o 628 N. Eckhoff 
Orange, CA 92668 

(714)978-6966 



CONTACT FOR 
DEALER LISTING 



Manufacturing 

2800 Lockheed Way 

Carson City, NV 89701 

(702)883-7611 



Circle 276 on inquiry card. 



wqwt 

SENSATION! 



You have been reading about our astounding 
high performance microcomputer products. 
Our X-9000 Pascal MICROENGINE™* CPU that 
executes Pascal 1 3x faster than an LSI- 1 1 
and 3x faster than a PDP1 1-34. Our X-920 
CRT matches the features of the SOROC IQ140. 
Our x-8000 16-bit CPU addresses 8M bytes 
of memory directly and is coming soon! 

"Trademark Western Digital Corporation 



DISPLAY/EDIT TERMINAL 
Model X-920 




$920 

s 820 (Without 18 function keys) 



STANDARD FEATURES (partial list) 

• Micro processor con trolled 

• Serial RS232C and 20 ma current loop 

• 10 baud rates— 75 to 19,200 

• 24 lines x 80 characters 

• 96 ASCII displayable characters 

• Upper and lowercase 

• 12 x 10 character resolution 

• Dual intensity display 

• Clear full intensity data only 

• Programmable reverse video 

• Programmable underline 

• 105 keys with alpha lock 

• 14 key numeric pad with decimal 

• 16 special function keys 

• 8 edit function keys 

• 2 block transmission keys 

• Self test mode 

• Protect mode 

• Block mode 

• 80 storable tabbing 

• Insert/delete character and line 

• Scrolling 

• Addressable cursor 

• A host of other features, including cursor controls 
and remote commands such as clear to nulls, 
spaces, end of line, end of screen; set hi.lo.zero 
intensity; set blink; etc. 

• Optional screen print & 2nd page memory 

For our system or for yours, in commercial, 
technical, educational or personal applications, 
the Computex X-920 is unmatched in its class. 



All features of the Hazeltine 1400 and ADM-3A 

Plus: 128 ASCII characters... 

7 x 10 matrix . . . Reverse 

video. .. Print key. . . 

Shiftlock . . . Transparent 

mode ... Backspace ., . 

Tabbing ... Integrated 

numeric pad. 




$799 



List price $ 9 5 6 

PERKIN-ELMER (Model 550) 



Off the shelf delivery now on the Model X-920 
and P-E Model 550. Add 40 lb. shipping. 
Customer satisfaction is guaranteed. 
Full refund with the return of any product 
within 10 days. X-9000 CPU $2995. Pascal 
MICROENGINF" owners manual $19.95; X-920 
operators manual $10, postpaid. Cash prices. 
10% down guarantees priority. IL residents add 
5% sales tax. Master Charge and Visa 
accepted. 

Computex stands for competence. We service 
what we sell. Written hardware warranty. 
Nationwide service contracts. Custom software. 
We provide expert technical support. 



(312)684-3183 

COMPUTEX 

Microcomputer Systems X 

"The Computer Experts" 
5710 Drexel Avenue 
Chicago, I L 60637 



Text continued from page 142: 

run the race as described by entering 
a carriage return, or can abort the 
race by typing anything before the 
carriage return is transmitted. If the 
race is not run, the program branches 
back to the action code selection. 

Listing 2 shows the running of the 
race. A screen depicting the race is 
printed at various points. The 
number of screens printed for each 
race equals: 

1 + ( distance in furlongs +1) 
2 

All fractions are truncated. The 
display was set up for use on a 24-line 
by 80-character terminal. Best results 
are obtained when running at 19,200 
bps, causing the display to appear 
rapidly. For the sample run, the pro- 
gram was edited to show the track 
display only once, and to print all 
positions that would have been 
printed in the five individual 
displays. The "I" symbols represent 
the finish line and the ":" symbols in- 
dicate furlong markers. 

The upper-righthand portion of the 
display represents the horses at the 
start of the race. If the markers are 
counted, you can see that the horses 
(depicted by numbers) are eight 
furlongs from the finish line. In the 
center of the track the horses are 
listed by name and post position, in 
order of finish. During the race, the 
display prints the names in racing 
order (first horse, second, third, etc). 
If twelve horses race, post positions 
10 to 12 are represented by 0, A, and 
B, respectively. After the last display 
of the track is printed, a "?" appears. 
Any input or a return will cause the 
program to print the chart of the race. 

The chart of the race is similar to 
newspaper reports that describe 
actual races. This chart shows the 
identification number, name, weight 
carried, post position, position at the 
start, half, stretch and finish, length 
behind the winner, and time and odds 
for each horse that participated in the 
running of the race. This is followed 
by the win, place, and show payoffs 
for the three horses finishing third or 
better. The computer asks if you are 
finished with this display by printing 
READY ?. Any input branches the 
program to the action code selection. 
Here a "0" is entered to end the race, 
and the program completes its execu- 
tion by writing the newly created 



data to file RACE-D. 

Listing 3 shows a second running of 
the program using the same data file: 
RACE-D. Here a maiden race is again 
selected, but the search covers all 
twelve identification numbers (0 to 
11). This time every horse is selected 
except identification 1, Damascus, 
the winner of the first race shown. 
Rather than run this race, the word 
"kill" is entered. 

A "1" is selected as the next action 
code, and a list of the horses is again 
printed. This time, historical data is 
on file and is displayed. 

Listing 4 shows the input for a con- 
ditioned race. For this type of race, a 
maximum earnings per race is re- 
quested. Only horses earning a parti- 
cular amount or less per race are eligi- 
ble to race. The maximum is set at 
$1000, and the search covers identifi- 
cation numbers to 5. Three horses 
in the search area meet these condi- 
tions (this can be verified by exam- 
ining listing 3), Therefore, the com- 
puter prints: TOO FEW HORSES 
(four is the minimum) and branches 
back to the action code selection. 
This time a handicap race for eight 
horses is selected and the computer 
chooses the eight horses who have no 
earnings. 

In listing 5, a stake race is selected. 
Here, the user can choose between an 
automatic or a manual selection of 
horses. "YES" is input in response to 
the question: YES FOR AUTO- 
MATIC SELECT?, and the program 
again branches to the automatic selec- 
tion portion of the program. Again 
the user decides not to run this parti- 
cular race. The bottom of this listing 
shows a stake race being set up with- 
out using the automatic selection pro- 
cess. After each post position number 
is printed, the user supplies a horse's 
identification number. 

At this point, I turned off the 
printer and ran a number of races. All 
of the historical information for these 
races was again stored in file RACE- 
D. Listing 6 shows program RACE 
being executed, but this time a more 
adequate supply of historical data is 
available. Action code 1 is entered 
and the list of horses is displayed. 
Action code 2 is now entered for the 
first time. This code gives statistics 
for the individual horses. After the 
"2" is input, the computer asks: ID#?, 
and the user supplies the identifica- 

Text continued on page 156 



146 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 




Of course 
our Floppys 
aren't cheap. 

Quality never is. 



It's no use trying to hide the fact: Maxell Floppy Disks 
give you the finest quality you can buy no matter how much 
you spend. And more and more of you are agreeing that 
your data is worth our perfection. 

Our floppys work better with your drive. 

Naturally, our floppys conform to ISO and IBM 
specifications. More important, they have also been approved 
by major OEMs, the people who recommend only those 
few floppys they are certain will work best with their 
hardware. So although we obviously don't know which 
drive system you are using, it makes no difference. Maxell 
Floppy Disks are so good they actually work better with 
any drive. 

What Stall means for you. 

Yes, you can pay less for some other floppys. But lost 
data is a terrible price to pay when quality is what you want, 
And Maxell Floppy Disks help you profit in the very 
parameters you use this medium for: storing more data with 
virtually no down-time. 

The level of modulation uniformity in every Maxell 
floppy is vital to double density recording and readout. It 



means no peak shift, complete freedom from dropouts, total 
absence of particle orientation. Plus longer life, greater 
overall durability, and significantly less oxide build-up and 
head abrasion. 

So when you have to depend on full data retrieval, a 
few cents can make a big difference. Depend on Maxell 
Floppy Disks. They can really save you. 

Maxell offers the full range of Floppy Disks from 
standard 8-inch to 5 1 /4-inch plus Data Cassettes. 

Dealer inquiries invited. 




maxell 

DATA PRODUCTS 

The Quality Alternative 



Maxell Corporation of America, Data Products Group 
60 Oxford Drive. Moonachie, NJ 07074 Tel. [201] 440-8020 



Circle 84 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 147 



Listing 3: Here we initialize the running of the second race. At this time we do not begin the race, but check for the current status of 
the RACE-D file to verify that the data from the first race has been stored. 



YPES ARE 

it 

Yi : 

n 

08 

o 

GS 



STANCE 
:, Ey DI 
START 
>T 1 



1 ~ S T A K E S 2 ~ A L L W A N C E 3 » C N D 1 T 1 N E D 4 » M A I D E N 

» 6 TO 12 FURLONGS MAXIMUM HORSES « .1. 2 
STANCE > HORSES? 4*7*12 
ID END SEARCH ? 0.11 



IANDIOAP 



"UGRKOUT 



IT 
IT 

;T 
;T 

;t 
it 

>T 

IT 
;t 



pos 
POS 

POS 

POS 

PO 

POS 

POS 

POST 11 



SECRET AR IT 

FOREGO- 

BUCKPASSER 
ROUND TABL 
GALLANT" MA 
BOLD RULER 

RUFFIAN 

FOOLISH PL. 
SUE'S GIRL 
RIM A RIDGE 
DR EAGER ~- 



"HIS 



S A 



POST NAME 



URL ON G MAIDEN RACE WITH A PURSE OF $ 44000 
UGH ODDS R# 1ST 2ND 3RD EARNINGS 



8 

9 

10 

1 1 



SECRET AR IT- 
FOREGO 

BUCKPASSER 
ROUND TABL 
GALLANT MA 
BOLD RULER 

RUFFIAN 

FOOLISH PL 
SUE'S GIRL 
RIMA RIDGE 
DR PAGER 



120 
120 
120 
120 
120 
120 
120 
120 
120 
120 
120 



$?♦ 

> 1 1 * 



i 1 1 * 
$7* 

V20* 
|S1# 

$5* 



20 
40 
40 
00 
00 
4 
20 
00 
00 
20 
20 



1 
1 
1 























1 









RETURN FOR RACE OR ANYTHING TO KILL 

1 FOR LIST OF HORSES 

2 FOR STATISTICS 

3 FOR RACE 

TO END ? 1 358? 














KILL 



$6200* 
$3100, 

$1550* 

" $0* 

$0* 

$0* 

*6* 

$0, 
$0, 
$0* 
$0. 



ID NAME 



$ WON ID NAME 



BUCKPASSER 

DAMASCUS 

DR PAGER 

RIUA RIDGE 
SUE'S GIRL 
FOREGO 









o 



o 







$1550, 
$201 SO < 

$0< 

$0, 

$0 , 

$ 3 100 < 



6 

7 

8 

9' 

1 



SECRET AR IT 
FOOLISH PL 

RUFFIAN 

BOLD RULER 
GALLANT MA 
ROUND TABL 







1 























$ WON 

$6200* 
$0. 
$0, 
$0* 
$0. 
$0. 



READY TO RETURN 



148 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



IDS Announces 

S-100 Energy Management Module 

The 100-EMM Energy Management Module provides temperature measurement at four separate locations 
indoors or out; monitors eight (8) doors, windows, or fire sensors; controls six external devices via relay or op- 
toislator; and provides an intrusion alarm with battery backup (alarm operates even during primary power out- 
ages). Put the 1 00-EMM to use in your home or business and claim a 30% tax credit for the cost of your S-1 00 
computer system including the 1 00-EMM. (Purchasing the 1 00-EMM can actually save you several times its 
cost in tax credits. Full instructions for filing are included in the 100-EMM manual.) 




BUY THIS S-100 BOARD 
AND GET UP TO A 30% 
TAX CREDIT BASED ON 
THE COST OF YOUR 
COMPUTER SYSTEM! 



Hi 



100-EMM Energy Management Module 

Assembled and Tested $395.00 
Kit $345.00 



Options for 100-EMM: 

CP-52 Cable Panel - Terminates two 26-conductor flat cables in 26 screwlugs. Use it for convenient interconnection of the 1 00-EMM 
to the "outside world". $45.00 

CABL-26-STD 26-Conductor Flat Ribbon Cable - Four feet in length with connectors for 1 00-EMM and CP-52 above. $35.00 Other 
lengths available on special order. Add $1 .00 per foot. 

OTHER PRODUCTS FROM IDS. The most complete source of S-100 compatible modules for process con- 
trol, data acquisition, energy management, and data communications. 

88-MODEM S-100 ORIGINATE/ANSWER MODEM WITH AUTO- 
DIALER. Software selectable baudrate provides any baudrate from 66- 
600 baud. Provides 1.5 stop bits when operated in 5-bit code mode. 
Auto-answer programs available for CROMEMCO CDOS, CP/M, North 
Star Horizon and MDS, and Alpha Micro. 
Assembled and Tested $395.00 Kit $245.00 




88-UFC UNIVERSAL FREQUENCY COUNTER 

Four software selected inputs, Measure frequency from O-650 
MHz and period from .luS to 1 Second. Extensive software in- 
cluded. 

Assembled and Tested $299.00 Kit $199.00 Temperature- 
Compensated Crystal Oscillator option $145.00 

88-SAI SYNCHRONOUS/ ASYNCHRONOUS INTERFACE 

The most versatile serial interface on the market. Computer ac- 
cess/control of all data and handshake lines and provision for 
masked interrupts, inversion of any input or output signal, and 
onboard baudrate generation for 110, 134.5, 150, 300, 600, 
1200, 2400, 4800, 9600, and many other baud rates. Many 
more features. 

Assembled and Tested $299.00 Kit $199.00 



88-SPM TIME OF DAY CLOCK with battery backup. Set the 
clock with three out instructions: no delays! Programs included 
in North Star BASIC, CBASIC, and 8080 assembly language. 

Assembled and Tested with crystal option $199.00 Kit less 
crystal option $99.00 Crystal Option Kit $25.00 

88-RCB RELAY CONTROL BOARD 

16 Relays on one board. Control appliances, production equip- 
ment, or even musical instruments (See BYTE Magazine Sept 
1977 page 12) 

Assembled and Tested $299.00 Kit $199.00 



INTERNATIONAL 
DATA SYSTEMS, INC. 



Mailing Address: 

Post Office Box 17269 
Dulles International Airport 
Washington, DC 20041 

Telephone (703)661-8442 



Shipping Address: 

400 West Service Road, Suite 130 
Dulles International Airport 
Washington, DC 20041 USA 

TELEX 901112 IDS CTLY 



Circle 85 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 149 



Listing 4: Listing of the input for a conditional race. Only three eligible horses are found in the search, too few for a race, so the com- 
puter subsequently prints TOO FEW HORSES. Next a request for the running of a handicapped race is entered. Here the computer 
selects eight horses who have no earnings. 



TYPES ARE 1 -STAKES 2* ALLOWANCE 3*CQM&ITXQNCS 


4 - M A I D Hi: N 5 - H AND I C A P 6 - W R K U T 




DISTANCE- 6 TO 12 FURLONGS MAXIMUM HORSES « 


12 




T Y P E t HIS T A N C E 9 H R S E S ? 3 f 9 f 6 






MAX $/RACE EARNED ? 1000 






ID START & ID END SEARCH ? QrS 






POST 1 SUE'S GIRL 






POST 2 RIUA RIDGE 






POST 3 DR PAGER 






THIS IS A 9 FURLONG CONDIT, RACE WITH A PUR* 


m OF $ 17000 




POST NAME WGH ODDS R# 1ST 2ND 3RD 


EARNINGS 




:::: :::: :::: :::: ss :::: :::: ::_ :::: :::: :::: :::: :::: :::: :::; :::: ::_ 3S :::: :::: :::: :::: :::: :::: :::: :::: :::: .*:" :~: :~: :::: :::: :::: :::: :::: "" :::: :::: :::: :::: ;::: :::: : :::: : 


:: :::: ::: :::: :::: :::: :::: :::; :- :::: :::: 




1 SUE'S G I R L 1 2 $ 21*2 1 


$0, 




2 RIVA RIDGE 120 $,40 :l. 


$0, 




3 DR PAGER 120 $1 ,00 1 


$0, 




TOO FEW HORSES 


1 




1 FOR LIST OF HORSES 






2 FOR STATISTICS 






3 FOR RACE 






TO END ? 3 3 58 9 






T Y P E S A R E 1 ■■■■■■■ S T A K E S 2 « A L L W A N C E 3 = C N D I T 1 N E D 


4 - M A I D E N 5 - H A N D I C A P 6 - W R K U T 




DISTANCE- 6 TO 12 FURLONGS MAXIMUM HORSES - 


12 




TYPE f D I STANCE 9 HORSES? 5 9 1 * 8 






YES FOR AUTOMATIC SELECT* ? YES 






ID START % ID END SEARCH ? 6*11 






POST 1 ROUND TABL 






POST 2 GALLANT MA 






POST 3 BOLD RULER 






POST 4 RUFFIAN- 






POST 5 FOOLISH PL 






POST 6 SUE'S GIRL 






POST 7 RIUA RIDGE 






POST 8 DR EAGER 






THIS IS A 10 FURLONG HANDICAP RACE WITH A PUI 


<$E. OF $ 13000 




POST NAME WGH ODDS R# 1ST 2ND 3RD 


EARNINGS 




1 ROUND TABL 120 $4,80 


$0, 




2 GALLANT MA 120 $3,40 


$0, 




3 BOLD RULER 120 $8,00 


$0, 




4 RUFFIAN- 121 $8,00 1 


$0, 




5 FOOLISH PL 119 $4,80 1 


$0, 




6 SUE'S GIRL 118 $5,60 1 


$0* 




7 RXUA RIDGE 121 $6,00 1 


$0 , 




8 DR EAGER 121 $8,00 1 


$0, 




RETURN FOR RACE OR ANYTHING TO KILL ? 







150 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



The Place To Buy Computers 



CR0MEMC0Z-2H 

HARD DISK 




• Full 1 1 -megabyte hard disk system • fast Z80A 
4 MHz processor • two floppy disk drives • 64K 
RAM memory • RSz32 special interface • print- 
er interface • extensive software available 

List $9995 ., .OUR PRICE ONLY $8489 



CROMEMCOHDD 

11/22 megabyte hard disk for use with exist- 
ing systems. DMA controller, transfer rate of 
5.6 megabytes/sec. 

HDD-11, List $6995 . .OUR PRICE $5,939 
HDD-22, List $1 1 ,995 10,189 




CROMEMCO SYSTEM 3 

- NOW DOUBLE THE CAPACITY! - 

Features 4 MHz CPU, 64K of RAM, dual-sided 
PerSci 299B floppy disk drive (provision for in- 
stalling a second 299B1, RS232C interface, print- 
er interface. All Cromemco systems are assem- 
bled and tested, ready to use. 
With 64K of RAM, List $6990 $5890 



CROMEMCO SYSTEM 2 

NOW DOUBLE THE CAPACITY 

(with double-sided drives) 

With 64K of RAM, two minifloppy disk drives, 
RS232 interface and printer interface board. 
System 2 w/64K RAM, List $3990 $3390 



CROMEMCO Z-2 



Can be rack mounted. Z-80 processor, 21 
slots, power supply, front cover panel. In 
eludes fan and al! edge connectors. Assembled 
and tested. 
Z-2W,Assem., List $995 $845 



NORTH STAR 
HORIZON 




HORIZON 1 KITS- 

32K, Double Density, List $1849 . . 1684 
32K, Quad Density, List $2049 ... 1869 

HORIZON 2 KITS- 

32K, Double Density, List $2249 . . 2034 
32K, Quad Density, List $2629 . . , 2359 

Kits inci. 12 edge connectors, 2 serial ports, 
parallel port and extra drive cable. (Subject to 
availability and price changes.) Call or write 
for low prices on assembled units. 



VECTOR MZ 



1 II 



veclO=* mz 



Now 64K with Bank Select — Complete 

Peachtree Business Software Package 

also available - Call for details. 



INTER SYSTEMS 

(formerly ITHACA AUDIO) 




The new series II CPO Board features a 4 MHz 
Z-80A CPU and a full feature front panel. 
20-slot actively terminated motherboard, with 
25-amp power supply (50/60 HZ operation, 
inci. 68 cfm fan). 
DPS-1, List $1495 . . . • • OUR PRICE $1299 



SD SYSTEMS 

SDS-100,w/32K RAM, $6995, ONLY $5945 
SDS-200, List $8995 7645 



SUPERBRAIN' 

By INTERTEC 







Available with 32 K, 48K & 64K 

Totally self-contained in a single box; 32K, 
48K, or 64K Version; Uses two Z-80 CPU's; 
Commercial-type terminal with 12" monitor 
(like the Intertube); Dual double-density 
minifloppies w/360 Kilobytes of storage 
capacity; I/O ports included; Expandable (if 
needed) with an external S-1 00 bus interface; 
Comes with CP/MTM operating system; ex- 
tensive software support. 

w/32K of RAM, List $2995 . . ONLY $2685 
w/64K of RAM $2883 



DYNABYTE 




48K and 64K models, single and double 
density, dual mini disk (77 track), standard 
8" and dual-sided 8" systems . SAVE 15% 



HEATH 




WH-89 — All-in-one computer. Features 
two Z-80's, 16K to 48K. Call or write for 
prices. 

RADIO IT "| 
TRS-80 1 

70% OFF 



k TM 




WRITE FOR FREE CATALOG 

Above prices reflect a 2% cash dis 
count ( prepaid prior to shipment). 
Add 2% to these prices for credit 
cards, C.O.D., etc. Prices are f.o.b. 
shipping point. Prices are subject to 
change and offers subject to with- 
drawal without notice. 



MiniMicroMart, Inc 

161 8 James Street, Syracuse NY 13203 (315)422-4467 TWX 71 0-541 -0431 



Circle 86 on inquiry card. 



Listing 5: An illustration of the automatic selection option provided in the running of the stake race. First the automatic selection pro- 
cess is chosen and the computer selects four entries, then the user decides to select each entry individually from the RACE-D file. 



TYPES ARE i«$TAKES 2=* ALLOWANCE 3-CGNDITIONED 4-MAIBEN 5 ^HANDICAP 6«tiORK0UT 
DISTANCE- 6 TO 12 FURLONGS MAXIMUM HORSES * 12 
T YPEf D I S T A N C E t H R S E S ? 1 r 6 • 4 

YES FOR AUTOMATIC SELECT* ? YES 
ID START % ID END SEARCH 7 Orll 

POST 1 DAMASCUS- 

POST 2 SECRETARIT 

POST 3 FOREGO - 

POST 4 BUCKPASSER 

THIS IS A 6 FURLONG STAKES 

POST NAME WGH ODDS 



RACE WITH A PURSE OF $ 36000 
R# 1ST 2ND 3RD EARNINGS 



$8*00 


1 


1 








$20150* 


11*60 


1 





1 





$6200* 


$3*20 


1 


o 


{ 1 


1 


$3100* 


$3*20 


1 











$1550, 



1 DAMASCUS 120 

2 SECRETARIT 120 

3 FOREGO ™ 120 

4 BUCKPASSER 120 



RETURN FOR RACE OR ANYTHING TO KILL 'i J KILL 

1 FOR LIST OF HORSES 

2 FOR STATISTICS 

3 FOR RACE 

TO END ? 3 358? 

TYPES ARE 1 -STAKES 2= ALLOWANCE 3^C0NDITI0NED 4^MAIDEN 

DISTANCE- 6 TO 12 FURLONGS MAXIMUM HORSES * 12 

T Y P E y D I S T A N C E , H R S E S ? 1 y 6 9 A 

YES FOR AUTOMATIC SELECT* ? 

POST 1 ID*? 7 

POST 2 ID*? 8 

POST 3 ID#? ? 

POST 4 ID*'? 10 



THIS IS A 6 FURLONG STAKES RACE WITH A PURSE OF $ 35000 
POST NAME UGH ODDS R# 1ST 2ND 3RD EARNINGS 



-HANDICAP 6- WORKOUT 



1 FOOLISH PL 120 


$9*00 


1 











$0* 


2 RUFFIAN 120 


$*60 


1 • 











$0* 


3 BOLD RULER 120 


$1 *60 











o 


$0* 


4 GALLANT MA 120 


$9*00 








o 





$0* 



RETURN FOR RACE OR ANYTHING TO KILL ? 






u 



The purpose of computing 

is insight not numbers' 1 -Hamming 



L/R. DoBB'S JOURNAL (Software and systems for small computers) 

P.O. Box E, Dept. G7, Menlo Park, CA 94025 • $15 for 10 issues • Remember to include your name, address and zip with your check. 



152 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 87 on inquiry card. 




after 





BATTERY SUPPORTED 
CALENDAR CLOCKS 



PDP-11* 

TCU-100*$495 

■ Provides month, day, hour, minute and second. 

■ Can interrupt on date/time, or periodic intervals. 

TCU-150-$460 

■ Provides year, month, day, hour, minute and 
second. 

■ Automatic leap year. 

■ Patches for RSX-11M, RT-11 FB/SJ V02, V03 
and UNIX. 

LSI-11/2* 

TCU-50D • $325 

■ Provides month, day, hour, minute and second. 

■ Dual size board. 

■ Patches for RT-11 SJ/FB V02, V03B. 

Lockheed SUE 

TCU-200 • $550 

■ Provides year, month, day, hour, minute, second 
and milli-second. 

■ Interval interrupts between 1/1024 seconds and 
64 seconds. 

Computer Automation (Naked Mini) 

TCU-310$385 

■ Provides year, month, day, hour, minute and 
second. 

* Trademark of Digital Equipment Corporation 




Multi-Bus** 

TCU-410*$325 

■ Provides year, month, day, hour, minute and 
second. 

■ SBC/BLC compatible. 

HP 2100 

TCU-2100 • $395 

■ Correct time restored after power failure. 

■ Compatible with the HP TBG card. 

Serial Clock (RS 232 or 20 mA) 

SLC-1 • $640 

■ Connects between any terminal and host computer. 

■ Provides date, time and more! 

All Digital Pathways TCUs have on board NICAD 
batteries to maintain time and date during power 
down. Timing is provided by a crystal controlled 
oscillator. Prices are U.S. domestic single piece. 
Quantity discounts available. 

For more information on these products, contact- 
Digital Pathways Inc. 
4151 Middlefield Road 
Palo Alto, CA 94306 
Phone: (415) 493-5544 



* trademark of Intel Corporation 
***Trademark of Computer Automation Incorporated 



DIGITAL PATHWAYS 



Circle 88 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 153 







COMPUTER SYSTEMS 






■ - ■ 



*Z80 is a registered trademark of Zilog, Inc. 

*CP/M and MP/M are registered trademarks of Digital Research, Inc. 





ALTOS BREAKS 

THE 

BARRIER. 




Yesterday, microcomputer meant micro 
performance. Once you outgrew it, you had to step 
up to a mini. Which meant a big step up in price. 

Today, there's the new Altos ACS8000-6 single- 
board microcomputer system. 

It's the first system for the OEM, small business- 
man and personal user, that offers minicomputer 
performance and minicomputer storage capacities— 
at a microcomputer price. 

MULTI-USER, WINCHESTER STORAGE, 
FLOPPY BACK UP: $14,260. 

The new Altos ACS8000-6 is a highly advanced 
Z80* based microcomputer system with high-speed 
RAM, floppy disk and Winchester hard 
disk controllers, DMA, six serial and 
two parallel I/O ports and the AMD 
9511 floating point processor all on 
a single board. A typical four-user, 
system configuration with two 
megabytes of Shugart floppy 
and 29.0 megabytes of Shugart 
Winchester storage, including 
CPU and 208K bytes of RAM, 
costs only $14,260— com- 
pared to $30,000 or more for 
a similar minicomputer system. 
And that adds up to mini 
performance at less than half 
the cost? 

MULTI-USER EXECUTIVE 

SUPPORTS FOUR 
INDEPENDENT USERS 
RUNNING CP/M** 
COMPATIBLE PROGRAMS. 

This revolutionary new microcomputer system 
features the MP/M** Multi-User Executive software 
program that's unique in two ways. It includes a 
multi-user CP/M capability and the ability to handle 
Winchester-type hard disks. The advanced Z80 
operating program supports four independent CP/M 




compatible programs in any of six popular lan- 
guages: BASIC, FORTRAN, COBOL, PASCAL, APL, 
C, and a large assortment of additional business 
application packages. MP/M is compatible with both 
the 1.4 and 2.0 versions of Digital Research's 
CP/M, which means programs based on either 
version can run under MP/M without modification. 

With MP/M at the helm, your Altos 
ACS8000-6 system can support up to four simul- 
taneous users with 48K bytes of RAM each plus 
58 megabytes of Winchester storage and 4 mega- 
bytes of floppy back up. And that adds up to the 
first microcomputer to give you the power and 

performance of a minicomputer, 
SINGLE-USER, HARD-DISK 
SYSTEMS START AT $9450. 
The Altos ACS8000-6 
series. It's a barrier breaker 
in every sense. Our entry- 
level, single- user, hard-disc 
system with floppy back 
up is priced under $10,000 
and even our 4-user CP/M 
model is available for 
under $12,000. And all 
configurations are easily 
upgraded. For specific 
\ details about pricing or 
performance, call or write: 
Altos Computer Systems, 
2360 Bering Drive, San Jose, CA 
(408) 946-6700. TELEX 171562 ALTOS SNA. 

Circle 89 on inquiry card. 



(altoS) 

COMPUTER SYSTEMS 



ATTENTION 

ENGINEERS, MICRO MANUFACTURERS, 
BUSINESSMEN, HOBBYIST 

( 1 ) A Command List for Graphic Hires Moves 
& Plots for your Apple. Much easier than 
manual shows. For drawing and saving 
graphic shapes in Hex. List only - $4.00, 
List & Example Applesoft Program 

$12.96/Disk. 

(2) SHS-2010 Humidity Sensor. Analog 0- 
+ 5 vdc Output. - 1 00% R.H. Presently 
being used by many Micro Manufacturers 
and users for accurate environment con- 
trol. 

(3) Temperature Sensors; (Thermistors). 
- 30 °F to + 230 °F 1 K ohms at 77 °F. 
Beads, Probes, Water. 

(4) Sunkeeper Energy Management and Data 
Acquisition Systems. (PROGRAM- 
MABLE). Turn-key or components. Not 
for residential use. State of the Art. 

Reader Service card for 
Command List inquiries Only. 

Please write or phone 
on all other inquiries. 



Iems 



& W. Energy Management 
Systems Inc. 

P.O. Box 1054 

Youngstown, Ohio 4450 1 

(216)7474212 



Circle 268 on inquiry card. 



OHIO 

SCIENTIFIC 

SYSTEMS 

DISCOUNTED 
CALL FOR PRICES 

FARAGHER& 
ASSOCIATES 

7635 BLUEMOUND 

MILWAUKEE, WI 53213 

(414) 258-2588 



Circle 269 on inquiry card. 



A METARESEARCH INNOVATION! 

FM-2 CRYSTAL-LOCK ORIGINATE MODEM 
ADJUSTMENT FREE - AT LOW COST 




This acoustic modem uses a new type 

of crystal-lock circuitry. Even in kit form, 

no calibration or adjustments are required. 

*RS232C compatible input and output 

* 300bps operation 

*Half/full duplex switch 

♦Crystal controlled transmit & receive circuitry 

•Safety AC plug, power jack and transformer 

Assembled and tested modem s 140.°° 

Complete kit «105PO 

Assembly manual only 

(refundable with purchase) . s 12.°° 

fcfc Postpaid in U.S.A. 

II I metaresearch 

1100 SE WOODWARD AVE. 
PORTLAND OREGON 97202 
(503) 232-1712 



Horse Statistics 



DAY 



RACE T 
PURSE : 

DIS : 

TIME : 



WGH : 
P : 
S,H,S,F . 



•L 



TIME ; 
ODDS : 
WINNER 



Each time a race is run a number is assigned in sequence 
from to 99. This number is called the date. Note that only 
one hundred races can be run in the file storage space made 
available by the program. 
The type of race. 
The dollar purse value assigned to the race by the com- 
puter. 

The number of horses that actually participated in the run- 
ning of the race. 

The distance of the race in furlongs. 

The time that won the race. All times are given as minutes : 
seconds, fifths of seconds. In all horse racing a 0.2 equals 2 / 5 
of a second not 2 / 10 . 

The weight that the horse carried in pounds. 
Post position. 

The position of the horse at the start, half, stretch, and 
finish. 

How many lengths the horse lost the race by, or how many 
lengths the horse won by if it finished first. 
The time it took for the horse to run the race. 
The odds of the horse winning the race. 
Which horse won the race. In the sample runs, I had both 
twelve and forty horses as the number of horses available 
to run during a particular execution of the program. If a 
twelve-horse run is selected after a forty-horse run of the 
program, and past performances require a name of a horse 
not contained in the twelve, is printed. 



Circle 270 on inquiry card. 

156 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Text continued from page 146: 

tion number of the horse whose past 
performances are to be reviewed. In 
the sample run, "6" was entered and 
Secretariat's past performances are 
displayed. The information given, 
aside from the same data as supplied 
by action code 1, is explained in the 
text box at left. 

In the case of Secretariat, his last 
ten races are printed, with the most 
recent appearing first. Ten is the 
maximum number of past perfor- 
mance races that are stored for each 
horse. If day is examined for 
Secretariat, you will see that the data 
is identical to that shown in listing 2 
for Secretariat. Listing 2 is the sample 
race that shows the running of the 
day race. 

What happens when a horse runs in 
its eleventh race? The least current 
race is dropped and the most recent 
race is added to the past performance 
file. Listing 7 shows this updating 
process for Secretariat. 

That is it for the racing game. 
Before it can be used, however, pro- 
gram RACE-I (listing 13, race input) 
must be run to set up the file. 

A 98-block file called RACE-D (or 






any name you choose) must be 
created before RACE-I is run. File 
RACE-D is created using the North 
Star disk operating system (DOS) and 
assigning a type 3 (the North Star 
code for a data file). Listing 8 shows 
the execution of RACE-I. This pro- 
gram always asks for the name of the 
data file first. Next, anything but a 
carriage return clears all of the 
historical data without removing the 
ratings and names of the horses on 
the file. The program execution then 
terminates. If a carriage return is 
entered now, the program enters the 
input/read mode. Here, horses' 
names and ratings can be entered, or 
the entire file can be read. To read the 
file a carriage return is entered again. 
Listing 8 shows the file used for the 
sample runs. If a return is not 
entered, you are in the input mode. 
To input, you enter an identification 
number between and 39 (anything 
else ends the program), followed by a 
comma and the horse's name. Next 
you supply a class and six ratings, 
each separated by a comma. 

The class is very important, and 
the number corresponds to the extra 

Text continued on page 160 



WHERE IS TARBELL? 



JACK RANDOLPH E ASSOCIATES I"C 
586 .SHADES CREST ROAD 
BIRMINGHAM 822-2339 

JETT CONSULTING 
1312 BROOKMEADE ST. 
HUNTPVILLE 852-4364 



ARIZONA MICROCOMPUTER CENTER 
4522 N. 19TH AVE 
PHOENIX 242-2507 

MICRO AGE 

1425 W. 12TH PLACE SUITE 101 

TEMPE 967-1421 



:r/, i'M AND I AS 
976 S. 5TH 
YUMA 7R3-4315 



r WORKS 
23 40 N.W. GRAND SUITE 7 
PHOENIX 972-4065 



CALIFORNIA 

AARON ENTERPRISES 
PO BOX 6 06 4 7 00 PINE 
SAN RAFAEL 47 9-2473 

ACTION COMPUTER ENTERPRISE 
75 WEST GREEN ST. ROOM 16 
PASADENA 793-2440 

ADVANCED COMPUTER PRODUCTS 
1310 B. EAST EDINGER 
SANTA ANA 558-P813 

ALPHA PROFESSIONAL SYSTEMS 

8926 D. BENSON AVE 

MOMTCLAIR 981-8177 & 981-81 88 

APPLIED PROCESSOR LABORATORIES 
11 BUB SO. PRAIRIE AVE. 
HAW'rtiORNF 871-3232 X5249 

ASTAR INTERNATIONAL COMPANY 
5676 FRANCIS AVE 
CHIMO 284-0561 

AVID ELECTRONICS 
2210 BELLFLOWER BLVD. 
LONG BCH. 598-0144 

BELL CONTROLS 

27 PROSPECT DRIVE 

SAN RAFAEL 45 4-47 82 

BITS N BYTES 

679 D. SO. STATE COLLEGE BLVD. 

FULLERTON 87 9-8386 

BUSINESS ENHANCEMENT COMPUSERVICE 

1711 F. VALLEY PARKWAY SUITE 10° 
ESCONDIDO 741-6335 

BYTE SHOP BURBANK 
1812 W. BURBANK BLVD. 
BURBANK 843-3633 

BYTE SHOP 
1122 B STREET 
HAYWARD 537-2983 

AFFORDABLE COMPUTERS 
16 50 8 HAWTHORNE BLVD 
LAWNDALE 371-2421 

BYTE SHOP 

2233 EL CAMINO REAL 

PALO ALTO 327-8080 

BYTE SHOP 

123 E. YORBA LINDA BLVD. 

PLACENTIA 524-53 80 

BYTE SHOP 

4 WEST MISSION 

SANTA BARBARA 9^6-263 B 

AFFORDABLE COMPUTERS 
3400 EL CAMINO REAL 
SANTA CLARA 249-4221 

BYTE SHOP 

803 8 CLAIREHONT MESA BLVD 

SAN DIEGO 5 6 5-800 8 

BYTE SHOP 

27 07 THOUSAND OAKS BLVD. 

THOUSAND OAKS 497-9595 

BYTE SHOP 

14300 BEACH BLVD. 

WESTMINSTER 894-9131 

CAL BLU CORPORATION 

350 S. FIGUEROA ST. SUITE 298 

LOS ANGELES 625-0673 

CHERRY ELECTRONCS 
236 84-0 EL TORO ROAD 
EL TORO 5B61210 

RICHARD CHEW 
2020 CROWN CIRCLE 
LA VERNE 59^.-3 480 

COMPELEC ELECTRONICS INC 
1000 W. HILLCREST BLVD 
INLJLEWOOD 373-5382 

THE COMPUTER CENTER 
8205 RONSON RD. 
SAN DIEGO 292-5302 

COMPUTER COMPONENTS OF ORA"GE CO. 
67 91 WESTMINSTER AVE. 
WESTMINSTER 898-8330 

COMPUTER COMPONENTS INC 
3 8UP WEST VERDUGO AVE 
18-5521 



COMPUTER COMPONENTS INC. 

5 848 PEPULVEDA BLVD. 

VAN BUYS 7Rh-7 411+7Rfi-2199 



COMPUTERLAND 

4233 CONVOY ST 

SAN DIEGO 560-9912 

COMPUTERLAND CORP. 
14400 CATALIMA ST. 
SAN LEANDRO 895-9363 



COMPUTERLAND W UAI.NUT CREEK 
1815 YGNACIO VALLEY RD 
WALNUT CREEK 935-6 502 

COMPUTER METRICS INC. 

1251 BROADWAY 

EL CAJON 579-8066 

COMPUTER STOP 

■■•■]■'■ -.■•■'. •■.''■ ;-:': ' . V"!:. 
LAWNDAel 371-4010 

COMPUTER STORE OF SAN LEANDRO 
7 01 MACARTHUR BLVD 
SAN LEANDRO 569-4174 

THt COMPUTER STORE 

82 BROADWAY 

SANTA MONICA 451-0713 

COMPUTER SYS 6 APPLICATIONS 
P.O. BOX 3243 
ORANGE 632-1226 

COMPU TREND 

2521 W. LA PALMA 

ANAHEIM 533-3572 

CYBERNITIC DATA SYSTEMS 
1618 INGLIS LAME 
SAN JOSE 925-6354 

DCI COMPUTER SYSTEMS 
467 N. EL CAFITAH 
FRESNO 266-9566 

DEANS MUSIC CITY 
B2-704 MILES AVE. 
INDio 347-5245 

DELTA PRODUCTS 

16 53 E. 2HTH 

SIGNAL HILL 595-7 506 

DIGITAL DELI 

80 WEST EL CAMINO REAL 

MOUNTAIN VIEW 9 61-26 7 

DYNATRON INTERN ATOP AL COMPANY 
18210 SHERMAN WAY 
RESEDA 381-8700 

ELECTRIC BRAIN 

3 03 8 NO. CEDAR AVE. 

FRESNO 227-8479 

ELECTROLABS 
930 EMERSON AVE 
PALO ALtO 3 21-56 05 

CRAIG ERICSSON 
438 W. CYPRESS 
GLENDALE 243-6251 

ELECTRONIC SUPPLY 
24 86 3RD ST 
RIVERSIDE 787-9220 

EVERGkEEN BUSINESS SERVICES 
336 5 B S. WHITE ROAD 
SAN JOSE 274-8717 

FORMULA INTERNATIONAL 
12603 CRENSHAW BLVD 
HAWTHORNE 973-1921 

FRANKLIN SYSTEMS CORP 

733 LAKEFIELD RD 

WESTLAKE VILLAGE 496-1878 

FUTRA CO. 

3447 TORRANCE BLVD 

TORRANct 371-8138 

iiOBBYWORLD ELECTRONICS 
19511 BUSINESS CENTER DR 
NORTHRIDGE 886-9200 

HOLLYWOOD SYSTEMS 

9100 SUNSET BLVD SUITE 112 

HOLLYWOOD 271-9726 

INDUSTRIAL MICROSYSTEMS 
628 ECKHOFF ST 
ORANGE 633-0355 

INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC USA IMC 

1310 E. EDINGER SUITE F 
SANTA ANA 83 4-9100 

JADE COMPUTER PRODUCTS 
13 440 S. HAWTHORNF BLVD 
HAWTHORNE 97 3-733 

KHALSA COMPUTER SYSTEMS INC 
500 S. LAKE AVE. 
PASADENA 6 84-3311 

LANTOR INC 

77 42 REDLAND5 ! 

PLAYA DEL RSY 

L. ELECTRONICS 
410 BELL AVE. 
SANTA ANA 5 93-4155 

L.S, ENGINEERING 
6701 DESOTO AVE #213 
. CAftOGA PARK 992-1827 

HICROBYTE COMPUTER STORE 
2626 UNION AVE 
SAN JOSE 377-46R5 

MICRO BUSINESS SYSTEMS INC 

4 56 3 HARM I ON WAY 

LOS ANGELES 2 57-4 444 

MICROCOMPUTER BUSINESS SYTEMS 
2094 B. WALSH AVE 
SANTA CLARA 988-3059 

MICROCOMPUTER CENTER 
1211 SOUTH WESTERN AVE 
ANAHEIM 527-5260 

MICRO DA SYS 

P.O. BOX 36051 

LOS ANGELES 93 5-4 55 5 

BROWN DOG ENGINEERING 

BOX 427 

LOMITA 326-8482 

HICROSUN COMPUTER CENTER 
2989 U. BAIN ST. 
WALNUT CREEK 933-6252 

M C COMPUTERS 
2008 WILSHIRE BLVD 
SANTA MONICA 535-3006 

SUPPORT SYSTEMS 
274b BENTON ST. 
SANTA CLARA 247-0638 



NEW HORIZONS 

16 IP BEACH BLVD #17 2 

HUNTINGTON REACH 926-B53 5 

ORANGE COUNTY COMPUTER CENTER 
1913 HARBOR BLVD. 
COSTA MESA 646-0221 

PCE ELECTRONICS 
47B2 DEWeY DRIVE 
FAIR OAKS 966-2208 

PRECISION COMPUTER SYSTEMS 
1737 N. 1ST SUITE 580 
SAN JOSE 279-822 R 

PROFESSIONAL DATA SYSTEMS 
318 E. 1PTH ST. 
BAKERSFIELD 323-0 891 

SAS COMPUTER PRODUCTS INC 

13766 SUNSET BLVD 

PACIFIC PALISADES 459-5(574 

SUNNY SOUNDS 

927 -B EAST LAS TUNAS DR. 

SAN GABRIEL 2 87-1811 

SUNSHINE COMPUTER CO. 
20710 S. LEAPWOOD AVE. 
CARSON 327-211 P 

TECH-MART 

19590 VENTURA BLVD. 

TARZANA 344-0153 



BYTE SHOP 

3101 WALNUT STREET 

BOULDER 444-6 550 

BYTE SHOP 

346 4 SOUTH ACOMA ST. 

EHGLEWOOD 761-6232 



CO: IF! ITER TECHNOLOGY 
6311 N. FEDERAL BLVD. 
DENVER 427-4438 



CONNECTICUT 



OFFICE SERVICES OF H AMD EN INC. 
96b DIXWELL AVE. 
HAMDEM 6 24-9917 



DE LAV/ ARE MICROSYSTEMS 
253 5 DARTMOUTH WOODS RD. 
WILMINGTON 7 3 8-3700 



APPLIED MICROCOMPUTER TECHNOLOGY 
241 OLD DIRT ROAD 
TALLAHASSEE 878-33 85 

DATA TECHNOLOGY ASSOCIATES INC 
1Q445 S.W. 7PTH AVE. 
MIAMI 667-3410 

DELTA ELECTRONICS INC. 
2000 U.S. HIWAY 441 EAST 
LEESttURG 728-2478 

DIGITAL MICROCOMPUTER SYSTEMS 
927 BLANDING BLVD #4 
O? A No E PARK 26 9-2002 



* TECHNOLOGY INC 
1549 W. BRANDON BLVD 
BRANDON 6P5-6714 



ADVANCED COMPUTER TECHNOLOGY 
290 HILDEBRAND N.E. 
ATLANTA 252-1094 



NETIC SCIENCES IMC 
125 TECHNOLOGY PARK 
::0PO05S 448-5770 



MAHALO MICROSYSTEMS LTD. 
3 55 ROYAL HAWAIIAN AVE 
HONOLULU 922-2152 

SMALL COMPUTER SYSTEMS 
3140 WAIALAE AV 17 

:■■■■■•:, :•;. ;-,;■-' :j.' ; 



BITS AND B V TES COMPUTER .-'TORE 
PO BOX G/292P W. 147TH ST. 
POSEf' 3P9-7112 

CHAMPAIGN COMPUTER CO. 
406 ELM ST. 
MAHOMET 586-4131 

BIES SYS. IMC. 

7037 WEST NORTH AVE 

OAK PARK 3 86-3323 

LILLIPUTF COMPUTER MART 
4 44 <5 OAKTON ST. 
SKOKIE 67 4-1 3 P3 

MIDWEST MICROCOMPUTERS INC 
708 S. MAIN ST. 
LOMBARD 495-9889 

WILCOX ENTERPRISES 
25 W. 178 3 9TII ST 
NAPERVILLT. 420-8601 



DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY 

10 N 3RD 

LAFAYETTE 423-2548 

DATA DOMAIN 
221 WEST DODDS 

INOTON 33 4-3607 



DIGITAL SUPPLY 
817 AGATHOH DR. 

EVANSVILLE 

THE HOME COMPUTER CENTER 
2115 EAST 6 2ND ST. 
INDIANAPOLIS 251-6 800 

SMITH COMPUTER SYSTEMS 
530 PIERCE AVE. 
DYER 322-5461 



COMPUTER CENTER 

5 815 JOHNSON DRIVE 

MISSION 432-BYTB 

COMPUTER SYSTEM DESIGN 
906 U. MAP' 
WICHITA 265-1120 



GREAT SOUTHERN COMPUTER SYSTEMS 
915 TALBOT 
TIUBOuAUX 446-843 2 



BILL GULLFDGE 
ROUTE 1 BOX 26 4- A 
imwNSVILLE 982-5610 



CON Pi ITERS ETC. 
13A ALLEGHENY AVE. 
TOWSON 296.-0 52 



MASSACHUSETTS 

THE COMPUTER MART INC 

13 95 MAIN ST ROUTE 117 AT 128 

WALTHAM 899-4 540 

COMPUTER SHOP 
288 NORFOLK ST, 
CAMBRIDGE 661-2670 

SCIENTIFIC CONSULTING SERVICES 
3 5 LINDA AVE 
FRAMINGHAM 926-4046 



AMERICAN COMPUTER CENTER INC. 
18U0 WEST FOURTEEN MILE RD. 
ROYAL OAK 576-0900 

COMPUTER STORE OF DETROIT 
413 2 N. WOODWARD 
ROYAL OAK 549-2 P70 

GAW COMPUTERTRONICS 
377 27 AMRHEIN RD. 
LIVONIA 464-0441 

J EPS AN 

GROUP K 47 06 MORNING SIDE DR. S 

GRAND RAPIDS 241-8336 

UNITED MICROSYSTEMS CORP. 
2601 S. STATE ST. 
AWN ARBOR 6 6 8-6 806 



AG RI- ELECTRONICS INC 
1061 E. CLIFF ROAD 
BURNSVILLF 890-0^40 

BROM MICROSYSTEMS ENGINEERING INC 
36 55 W. 6TH ST. 
WINONA 452-7958 

COMMERCIAL COMPUTER INC. 
2200 ». 94TH AVE 
MINNEAPOLIS P84-R0G3 

COMPUTER DEPOT INC 
7625 BUSHLAKE RD 
MINNEAPOLIS 831-208B 

MINNESOTA MICROSYSTEMS 
514 CEDAR AVE 

33R-5604 



MISSISSIPPI 

OXFORD SOFTWARE COMPANY 
1125 JACKSON AVE 
OXFORD 23 4-2226 



CLIVUS MULTRUM 
20 5 MEADOW ROAD 
WHITEFISH 862-3854 



NEBRASKA 

OMAHA COMPUTER STORE 
4540 S. 84TH ST. 
OMAHA 5 92-3 5 90 



NEW J ERSE" 



CBS CONSOL1I 

264 MALAPARDIS RD 

MORRIS PLAINS 267-2653 

COMPUTER E.MPORIUM 

ELDG 103 AVENUES OF COMMERCE 

CHERRY HILL 667-7 555 

COMPUTER LAB OF NJ 

141 ROUTE 46 

BUDD LAKE 691-1984 

COMPUTER HART OF NJ INC. 
501 ROUTE 27 
ISELIN 283-0600 

COMPUTER SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL 
539 DURIN AVE 
CLOSTER 767-7510 

ELECTRO ANALYTIC SYSTEMS INC 
448 RT 15 SOUTH 
WHARTON 361-4300 



S-100 INC. 
7 WHITE PL. 
CLARK 382-1318 



NEW YORK 

BYTE SHOP EAST 

2721 HEMPSTEAD TRKE. 

LEVITOWN 731-8116 

COMPUTER SHOP OF SYRACUSE INC 
3470 ERIE BLVD EAST 
DElViTT 637-5208 



MANAGEMENT COMPUTI 
86-16 SANTIAGO ST. 
HOLL1S 479-7783 

MINI MICRO MART 
1618 JAMES 
SYRACUSE 422-4467 

OWENS ASSOCIATES 

12 SCHUBERT ST 

STATE!' ISLAND 4 4 8-6 2 P3 



NORTH CAROLINA 

ALPHA DIGITAL SYSTEMS INC. 
RT. 4 BOX 171 ft 
BOONE 26 4-7 946 

BYTE SHOP OF RALEIGH 
1213 HILLSBOROUGH ST. 
RALEIGH 833-0210 

COMPUTER SHARING INC. 
27 3 HAYWOOD ST. 
ASHVILLE 253-236 4 

SOUTHERN DIGITAL SYSTEMS INC 
VERNON PARK MALL SUITE 806 A 
KInSTON 527-4691 



CINCINNATI COMPUTER STORE 
4816 INTERSTATE DR. 
CINCINNATI 8/4-06 00 

COMPUTERLAflD OF CLEVELAND 

12r8 som center road 
mayfield heights 461-1200 

computer hart 
6310 linworth road 
columbus 846-2966 

digital automation associates inc 
735 haskins rd 
bowling green 352-6977 

midwest microcomputers 

1671 TIMMY 
HAMILTON 874-0600 

OIUO MICROCOMPUTER SPECIALIST 
1265 GHANDVIEW AVE 
COLUMBUS 488-184 9 

QUASAR DATA PRODUCTS 
3501 LAKEVIEW BLVD 
STOW 779-9387 

TEC MAR INC. 

2 3 414 GREEMLAWM AVE. 

BEECHWOOD 382-7 599 



MICROLITHICS INC. 

2918 N. MACARTHUR BLVD 

OKLAHOMA CITY 947-5646 



HYTE SHOP BEAVERTON 

3482 S.W. CEDAR HILLS BLVD. 

BEAVERTON 223-3496 

COMPUTERLAND OF PORTLAND 
12020 S. WEST MAIN 
TIGARD 642-3212 

THE REAL OREGON COMPUTER CO. 
20 5 WES? TENTH ST. 
EUGENE 484-1040 



PENNSYLVANIA 

ERIE COMPUTER COMPANY 
1253 W. 8TH ST. 
ERIE 454-76 52 

MARKETLINE SYSTEMS INC. 
2337 PH1LMONT AVE 
HUNTINGDON VALLEY 



SOUTH CAROLINA 

BRK ELECTRONICS INC. 
1811 HUNTINGTON PLACE 
ROCK HILL 366-1329 

THE BYTE SHOP 32 
2018 GREEN ST. 
COLUMBIA 771-7824 



SOUTH DAKOTA 

HAL CORPORATION 

1425 COMET RD 

SIOUX FALLT 332-4R2B 



COMPUTER MICROSYSTEM:: 
1311 NORTHERN BLVD. 
MANHASSET 6 27-36 40 



COMPUTER WORLD 
625 MAIM ST. 
NASHVILLE 255-8330 

EASTERN MICROCOMPUTER STORES INC. 
5613 KINGSTON PIKE 
KNOXVILLE 584-8365 

HOMESTEAD TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATIOf 
2114 WEST END AVE 
NASHVILLE 320-1883 



ANDY FLEXTRONICS CO. INC. 
6319 LONG DRIVE 
HOUSTON 6 41-0576 

AUSTIN MICROPRODUCTS 

C/0 DAN DRUMHOHD RT 3 BOX 87 A 

ROCKDALt; 446-2248 

COMPUTER MART OF WEST TEXAS 
4622 28TH ST. 
LUBBOCK 797-7550 

THE COMPUTER STORE 
3411 MAHQUART SUITE 102 
HOUSTON 522-7845 

ELECTRONIC SPECIALTY CO. 
4032 BELLAIRE BLVD. 
HOUSTON 66 5-0 477 



HOUSTON COMPUTER MART 
8029 GULF FREEWAY 
HOUSTON 6 49-4188 

INTEGRATED DATA SYSTEMS 
6002 CERRITOS 
HOUSTON 7 29-916 



MICPOBYTE ; 
2212 CRAWFORD 

HOUSTON 7 57-11 2P 

THE MICRO STORE 

634 S. CENTRAL EXPRESSWAY 

RICHARDSON 231-10T6 

MICROSYSTEMS SERVICES INC. 
53 01 EVERHART SPACE H 
CORPUS CHRISTI 855-4516 

MICROTRONICS INC 
P.O. BOX 985 
DICKINSON 337-5112 

RADIO HUT 
201 LOCKWOOD 
DALLAS 324-2829 

RIBIGITAL ELECTRONIC CO 
1423 WEST TERRELL ST 
FORT WORTH 336-0777 

THE K.A, COMPUTER STORE 
9090 STEMMOHS FWY 
DALLAS 6 43-2667 

YOUNG ELECTRONIC SERVICE 
80 8 F. BROTHER'S BLVD 
COLLEGE STATION 6 93-3 462 



ARROW COMPUTER SERVICE 

4154 S. 3 00 WEST 

SALi LAKE CITY 268-0130 

COMPUTERS + STUFF OF UTAH 
1717 WEST CENTER ST. 
PROVO 377-1717 



COMPUTER PLUS 
6120 FRANC ON I A RD 
ALEXftNDRIA 751-1115 

COMPUTER SYSTEMS STORE 
19B4 CHAIN BRIDGE RD. 
MCLEAN 821-8333+821-8334 

THE HOME COMPUTER CENTER 
12588 WARWICK BLVD, 
NEWPuRT NEWS 827-3 917 



WASHINGTON 

INNOVATIVE COMPUTING INC. 

113 5 LAKE ST. SOUTH SUITE 245 

KIRKLAND 827-0731 

NORTHWEST DATACOHM 

13 400 NORTHRUP WAY SUITE 19 

BELLEVUE 641-0882 

OLYMPIC COMPUTERS 

418 S. LINCOLN 

PORT ANGELES 457-3315 



THE COMPUTER CORNER INC 

22 BEECHURST AVE 

NO roan TOWN 2 93-5121 



MORRIS ENTERPRISES 
1 MAIN ST 
OSAGE 599-5121 



BYTE SHOP OF MILWAUKEE 
6019 W. LAYTON AVE 
GREENFIELD 278-6000 

DMA INC. 

545 MEADOW LN. 

SHEBOYGAN FALLS 467-6006 

MAGIC LANTERN COMPUTERS 
3313 UNIVERSITY AVE 
MADISON 233-2026 



OUTSIDE U.S. 

BYTRONIX MICROCOMPUTER LTD 
83 WEST STREET 
FARNHAM SURREY 
GU97 N. ENGLAND 

CANADIAN MICROCOMPUTER SYSTEMS 

PO BOX 1154 

BRANDON 

MANITOBA CANADA R7A 6A5 

COMPUTER CENTRE 

9 DE-LA-BECHE STREET 

SWANSEA 

SOUTH WALES SA1 3 EX 

0792 460023 

HICROBOARDS 

1-7-1-1003 SAIWAI - CHO 

CHIBA CITY 

JAPAN 26 

47 0427 (47) 3081 

ORTHON COMPUTERS 
12411 STONY PLAIN ROAD 
EDMONTON - ALBERTA 
CANADA T5N 3N3 
403 448-2921 

PAUL SCHENKER 
PO BOX 176 
ZURICH 

SWITZERLAND 8044 
213 473-3747 



Circle 90 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 157 



Listing 6: RACE program execution, but this time with more historical data. Then a request for SECRETARIAT'S statistics is made. 



RANDOM HUM ? 43 

# OF HORSES ? 40 
FILE! RACE -D 



1 FOR LIST OF 


HOR 


SES 






















2 FOR STATISTICS 
























3 FOR RACE 


























TO END ? I 






,1. \.> \y 


'".' 


















ID NAME 


R# 


1 


■"> 


3 


$ MM 


I D 


NAMI : 




R# 


1 


*"> 


3 


BUCK PASSER 


4 


■■■j 








$82150* 


2 


RABI- 


LET - 














1 DAMASCUS 


3 


:i. 





1 


$28650* 


21 


COL. 


BAY 














2 DR EAGER 




1 





1 


$16900* 


'.> '.'> 


THE 


GEN 














3 RIMA RIDGE 


8 


1 





1 


$18700* 


23 


THE 


ONE 














4 SUE'S GIRL 


1 





Q 


o 


$0, 


24 


ALL 


BUT ON 














5 FOREGO 


10 





4 


■■;> 


$48300* 


25 


CAN 


DO - 














6 SECRETARIT 


1 


1 


o 


•"> 


$38700* 


26 


DON J 


T SAY- 














7 FOOLISH PL 


1 





■':> 





$11300* 


27 


PERL- 


iONALIT 














8 RUFFIAN 


7 


■") 





o 


$86450* 


28 


RUFF 


" % RED 


o 











? BOLD RULER 


vJ 


1 





1 


$31450* 


29 


















10 GALLANT MA 


9 





m ? 


2 


$34350* 


30 



















11 ROUND TABL 


9 


1 








$16050* 


3 1 




















12 TIM TAM 














$0 * 


32 



















13 SWORD BANC 


o 











$0* 


33 
















o 


14 KELSO 














$0* 


34 




















15 CARRY BACK 














$0* 


35 




















16 CICADO- 








o 





$0* 


36 


















17 NO Rl HERN D 





o 








$0* 


37 



















IS MAN O'WAR™ 














$0* 


38 






















19 SILKY SULL 














$0* 


39 










-0 








READY TO RETURN ? 

























1 FOR LIST" OF HORSE 

2 FOR STATISTICS 

3 FOR RACE 

TO END ? 2 



750 



WON 

$0* 
$0* 
$0* 
$0* 
$0* 
$0* 
$0* 
$0* 
$0* 
$0* 
$0* 
$0* 
$0* 
$0* 
$0* 
$0* 
$0* 
$0* 
$0* 
$0* 



ID# ? 6 
































SECRETARIT 


10 1 2 2 


38700 
























DAY RACE T 


PURSE 


-#H 


DIS 


TIME 


mm 


P 


S 


H 


S 


F 


L 


TIME 


ODDS 


WINNER 


9 STAKES 


$103000* 


-12 


:i.2F ; 


>224*4 


120 


4 


t::- 


1 1 


1 1 


9 


5 


2:25*4 


4 * 6 


RUFFIAN- 


8 ALLOW* 


$85000* 


-12 


6F 


1. 2 7 * 3 


120 


*j 


1 1 


10 


1 


10 


5 


1 t 8*3 


4*40 


BUCKPASS 


7 CONDI T* 


$30000* 


... 5 


10F 


I. 2 59*3 


120 


1 





1 


4 


1 





1 2 59*3 


1 *60 


SEC RET AR 


6 MAIDEN 


$20000* 


• 6 


6F 


1. 2 7 * 4 


120 


1 


'? 


•"> 


2 


3 


*■;> 


1 : 8 * 1 


1 *60 


ROUND TA 


5 MAIDEN 


$24000* 


... 7 


3F 


1. 133 •! 


120 


1 


4 


1 


3 


4 


4 


1 2 34*0 


2*40 


RIVA RID 


4 MAIDEN 


$30000* 


- 8 


9F 


1.246*3 


120 


1 


6 


4 


7 


6 


4 


1 2 47* 1 


3*00 


RUFFIAN-- 


3 MAIDEN 


$31000* 


... 9 


8I :: ' 


1. 2 33*4 


120 


1 




"7 


8 


e 


3 


1 2 35*2 


3*60 


BOLD RUL 


2 HANDICAP $20000* 


-10 


7 j- 


1. 2 20*3 


121 


1 


7 


"7 


3 


3 


';> 


1 2 2 1 * 


10*80 


DR EAGER 


1 MAIDEN 


$39000* 


- 1 1 


6F 


1. t 7 * 3 


120 


1 


6 


4 


4 


'"> 





12 ? <3 


4*20 


BUCKPASS 


MAIDEN 


$31000* 


.... 9 


BF 


1. 2 33*2 


120 


3 


6 


4 


2 








1 2 33*2 


4*00 


DAMASCU 


S 



158 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



CompuProf essional . 

For memory, motherboards, I/O boards, enclosures, CPU boards, or any of 
our family of products, COMPUPRO ™ delivers what you want at prices you can afford. 



PARDON US WHILE WE SHAKE THINGS UP. 

We've never been interested in doing another me-too board, so we waited until we had a 
product that was the full equal of our memories and other peripherals. Now we have two CPU 
boards: a Z-80 version (and we all know how powerful that chip can be), along with our amazing 
8085/8088 dual processor board. The 8088 acts like an 8086 hidden in an 8 bit package; it has 16 
bit internal operation but works with an 8 bit bus, can execute all 8086 code, and runs at 5 MHz 
while the 8085 can run at a slower speed (if needed) for compatibility with the rest of a 
system . . . it's almost like having 16 bit power with an 8 bit bus. Both CPU boards — in fact, all of 
our S-100 boards — meet all IEEE S-100 bus specifications. Full information and pricing on 
these advanced products, including details on the ground-breaking 8085/8088 board, will be 
available from us starting April 2nd (sorry, no additional information will be given out before that 
date). 



LOOKING FOR MEMORY ? 

Then look for a board that's static, runs up to 5 MHz, meets the IEEE 
S-100 standards, is low in power, includes a 1 year limited warranty, and 
has the name "CompuPro". Choose from unkit (sockets, bypass caps pre- 
soldered in place for easy assembly), assembled, and boards qualified 
under our high-reliability Certified System Component (CSC) program. 

Memory name 
8K Econoram* IIA 
16K Econoram XIV 
16K Econoram X-16 
16K Econoram XIIIA-16 
16K Econoram XV-16 
16K Econoram IX-16 
24K Econoram VIIA-24 
24K Econoram XIIIA-24 
32K Econoram X-32 
32K Econoram XIIIA-32 
32K Econoram XV-32 
32K Econoram IX-32 
32K Econoram XI 

* Econoram is a trademark of Godbout Electronics. 

(1) Extended addressing (24 address lines). Addressable on 4K boundaries. 

(2) Compatible with all bank select systems (Cromemco, Alpha Micro, etc.); addressable 
on 4K boundaries. 

(3) Bank select option for implementing memory systems greater than 64K. 



Buss & notes 


Unkit 


Assm 


CSC 


S-100 


$169 


$189 


$239 


S-100 (1) 


$299 


$349 


$429 


S-100 


$329 


$379 


$479 


S-100 (2) 


$349 


$419 


$519 


H8(3) 


$339 


$399 


n/a 


Dig Grp 


$319 


$379 


n/a 


S-100 


$449 


$499 


$599 


S-100 (2) 


$479 


$539 


$649 


S-100 


$599 


$689 


$789 


S-100 (2) 


$649 


$729 


$849 


H8 (3) 


$649 


$749 


n/a 


Dig Grp 


$599 


$679 


n/a 


SBC/BLC 


n/a 


n/a 


$1050 



HIGH-PERFORMANCE S-100 MOTHERBOARDS^T 

6 slot: $89 unkit, $129 assm 
12 slot: $129 unkit, $169 assm 
19 slot: $174 unkit, $214 assm 
Ideal for use with the above enclosure. Unkits have edge 
connectors and termination resistors pre-soldered in place 
for easy assembly. Meets or exceeds IEEE S-100 specs; in- 
cludes true active termination, grounded Faraday shield be- 
tween all bus signal lines, and edge connectors for all slots. 



PASCAL/M ™ + 
MEMORY SPECIAL 

PASCAL can give a microcom- 
puter with CP/M more power than I 
many minis. For a limited time, you 
can buy our totally standard Wirth 
PASCAL/M™ 8" diskette, with 
manual and Wirth's definitive book | 
on PASCAL, for $150 with the pur- 
chase of any memory board. Spec- 
ify Z-80 or 8080/8085 version. | 
PASCAL/M™ is also available sep- 
arately for $350. 

THE GODBOUT 
COMPUTER BOX 

$289 desktop, 

$329 rack mount 

Quiet fan, dual AC outlets and I 
fuseholder, heavy-duty line filter, 
black anodized front panel, and | 
card guide. This functional, ver- 
satile, and handsome enclosure! 
does justice to the finest computer 
systems. Ask about our matching! 
power supply. 



2708 FROM BOARD $85 unkit 
4 independently addressable 4K blocks. Includes all sup- 
port chips and manual, but does not include 2708 EROMs. 

S-100 ACTIVE TERMINATOR BOARD $34.50 kit 

Plugs into older, unterminated motherboards to improve 
performance. 



S-100 MEMORY MANAGER BOARD 

$59 unkit, $85 assm, $100 CSC 

Adds bank select and extended addressing to older S-100 
machines to dramatically increase the available memory 
space. 

2S "Interfacer I" S-100 I/O BOARD 

$199 unkit, $249 assm, $324 CSC 
Dual RS-232 ports with full handshake. On-board crystal 
timebase, hardware UARTs, much more. 

3P PLUS S 'Interfacer II" S-100 I/O BOARD 

$199 unkit, $249 assm, $324 CSC 
Includes 1 channel of serial I/O (RS-232 with full hand- 
shake), along with 3 full duplex parallel ports plus a separate 
status port. 



SEE COMPUPRO PRODUCTS IN PERSON: Many of these products are stocked by finer computer 
stores world-wide, or write us if there's no dealer in your area. 



TERMS: Cal res add tax. Allow 5% for 
shipping, excess refunded. VISA®/ 
Mastercharge® call our 24 hour order 
desk at (415) 562-0636. COD OK with 
street address for UPS. Sale prices 
good through cover month of 
magazine; other prices are subject to 
change without notice. 



CompuPro 



from 




ELECTRONICS 



Bldg. 725, Oakland Airport, CA 94614 (415) 562-0636 



Circle 91 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 159 



Listing 7: Updating the file on SECRETARIAT. The least current race is dropped from the record and the most recent race is added to 
the past performance file. 





:i:d# ? 6 






















SECRET AR IT I 


1 1 2 2 38700 


















DAY RACE T 


PURSE -#H 


ins 


TIME WON P S 


H 





,::• 


L 


TIME 


ODDS WINNER 




11 ALLOW* 


$51000* -10 


6F 


It 8*1 123 10 2 


6 


6 


6 


6 


It 9*2 


2*00 DON'T SA 




9 STAKES 


•103000* -12 


12E 


2:24*4 120 4 5 


1 1 


1 1 





b 


2:25*4 


4*60 RULE IAN- 




8 ALLOW* 


$85000,-12 


6F 


11 7.3 120 5 11 


1 


10 


1 


'.'.'/ 


1 : 8 * 3 


4*40 BUCKPASS 




7 CONDI 7* 


$30000*- 6 


10E 


1159* 3 120 1 2 


1 


4 


1 





1 159.3 


1 ,60 SECRET^R 




6 MAIDEN 


$20000*- 6 


6F 


I J 7*4 120 1 2 


2 


2 


3 


"> 


1 : 8 * 1 


1*60 ROUND TA 




5 MAIDEN 


$24000*- 7 


SE 


i:33*l 120 1 4 


1 


3 


4 


4 


1 **34*0 


2*40 RIVA RID 




4 MAIDEN 


$30000*- a 


9E 


1M 6* 3 120 1 6 


4 


7 


6 


4 


1 :47*i 


3*00 RUFFIAN- 




3 MAIDEN 


$31000*- 9 


3F 


i:33*4 120 1 5 


7 


8 


8 


8 


1 :35*2 


3*60 BOLD RUL 




2 HANDICAF 


$20000* -10 


7F 


:U20*3 121 10 7 


.... 


3 


3 


■•> 


1 : 2 1 * 


10*80 DR FAGER 




1 MAIDEN 


$39000* 11 


6F 


It 7.3 120 1 6 


4 


4 


2 





1 : 7*3 


4*20 BUCKPASS 




1 

1 $r 





















Text continued from page 156: 
lengths added to each one of the six 
ratings. The ratings are numbers be- 
tween 1 and 13. The higher the rating, 
the faster the horse runs. The first 
rating sets the speed of the horse for 
the first two furlongs of a race; the 
second rating sets how fast the third 
and fourth furlongs are run, etc. 



Therefore, for a six -furlong race, only 
class and ratings 1, 2 and 3 are used. 
An eleven or twelve-furlong race 
utilizes class and all six ratings. 

If you have a North Star disk, you 
are ready to simulate horse racing. If 
not, the following discussion will 
show you how to eliminate the files 
and reduce memory requirements. 



Dealerships Available 




MULTI TERMINAL 
SMALL BUSINESS COMPUTERS 

IBC System 40 with 64 K byte memory, 2M byte • Up to 6 CRTs/printers con operate 

disk storage, cabinet, and multi-user operat- independently and simultaneously. 

ing system with BASIC *4700 System 40 has dynamic memory ai- 

Addltional 64K byte memory (128 total) 700 location, reentrant code, and vec- 

Addltlonal 2M byte disk storage 1950 tored Interrupt. Operating system runs 

Additional 20M byte disk storage (Winchester) 4000 foreground, background, Interactive. 

CRT Terminal 895 and batch. BASIC has multiple key 

Matrix Printer (150 cps) 1895 ISAM. 

Character Printer (55 cps) 2695 

• Multi-user wordprocesslng concurrent 
-Dealer Prices with data processing. 



IflC/ 



integrated Business Computers 



22010 Wilmington Ave., Suite 306, Carson, CA 90745 (213)518-4245 



File Structure 

Before the file structure and the 
time requirements to manipulate files 
are discussed, program RACE will be 
described. Table 1 shows the key 
variables and functions by line 
numbers. As can be seen, almost 
everything is a subroutine. If you 
decide to remove a subroutine to save 
memory, I suggest reentering the first 
line of each routine to be eliminated 
as a RETURN, and deleting all other 
lines. This saves you from the task of 
looking for all references to the 
deleted subroutine. After eliminating 
a subroutine, testing will have to be 
done to ensure that variables still con- 
form to print formats. 

In listing 1, the program RACE was 
run with only twelve horses, and 
about 16,030 bytes of memory were 
required. With a forty-horse race 
(listing 6), 17,949 bytes are needed. In 
listing 9, I edited the program quickly 
to eliminate all file references. This 
version was run with only two horses 
and required only 11,917 bytes of 
memory. More memory can be saved 
by eliminating other subroutines. 

This edited version of RACE does 
not require the use of program 
RACE-I, since all horses' names, 
classes and ratings are now data 
statements (listing 9 lines 1000 and 
1001). You will notice, however, that 
the ratings are no longer numbers be- 
tween 1 and 13. Program RACE-I 
converted the ratings 1 to 13 to the 
numbers shown in lines 1000 and 
1001 of listing 9. If you examine lines 
20 and 30 of listing 13, RACE-I, you 
can see the thirteen numbers into 

Text continued on page 164 



160 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



A, McGRAW-HtLL PUBLICATION 




OUIDETO PERSONAL *£& COMPUTING 





GETTING ST 

w v\at You Need At 

ECailPMEHT 

TRS~ BO, Apple, 
Best SeUins Author 

JERK* POURME 

"Vmttng With A " " " 

THE BSH/KRY 

Abo... 

A PERSONAL 
COt-AP-UTfcft DIRECTOR/ 
COMPUTER CLUBS: 
V*WO t-*CJEOS THEM? 

f- *ubs »TO*cf» mn#<:r» nr*c»ri«K 



It Will Cost 




When will tile Personal Computer 
Explosion touch YOU? 



Are you prepared for the explosive 
transformation? Right in your own 
home? Electronic mail. Personalized • 
investment analysis. Foreign language 
tutorial. Home energy management. 
Robots. Computer music. Secretarial 
service. Diet and menu planning. And 
more, more, more. 

onComputing™ the new McGraw-Hill 
quarterly, prepares you for the 
enormous changes coming during the 



VHkttyi^BP 



1 980's (Some are already here). 
onComputing™ explains in nontechnical 

language what personal computers are, 
how they work, and how you can use 
them at home, for fun and profit. 

Don't let the personal computer 

explosion catch you off guard. Know 

what's happening and help make it 

happen! Prepare now for the exciting 

future with a subscription to 

onComptiting™ 1 



Call Toll-Free 
800-258-5485 



Start your 
subscription today- 



onCompMttag™ Subscription Dept. P.O. Box 307, Martinsville, NJ 08836 

DOMESTIC subscription rate: 

□ U.S. 1 yr. (4 issues) @ $8.50 Q Canada & Mexico, 1 yr. (4 issues) @ $ 10.00 

FOREIGN (to expedite service, please remit in U.S. funds drawn on a U.S. bank.) 

□ Europe (and all other countries, except above), 1 vr. @ $ 12.00 — surface delivery. 

D Bill Visa D Bill Master Charge D Bill me (North America only) 



) onComputing, Inc. 1980 



Card Number 


Expiration 

j 


Signature 


Name (please print) 1 

i 


Street/ Apartment Number ! 

i 


City 


State/Province/Country Code 



Listing 8: Execution of the RACE-I program. You can enter the input mode to store any information in the file. Here we chose just to 
read the file. 





FILE I RACE-D 












RETURN TO ENTER HORSES OR 


ANYTHING TO 


CLEAR FILE ? CLEAR 








READY 












RUN 












FILE t RACE-D 












RETURN TO ENTER HORSES I 


m 


ANYTHING TO 


CLEAR FILE ? 








RETURN TO READ RATINGS J 


m 


ANYTHING TO 


INPUT ? 








BUCKPASSER 2 


1. 2 


1 *"} 


9 9 


9 9 








DAMASCUS 2 


1.0 


1.0 


9 9 


9 9 








DR EAGER™- 2 


1.3 


13 


9 9 


I"' !"■ 








R.IVA RIDGE 2 13 


1. 3 


8 8 


9 9 








SUE'S GIRL 2 7 


K..< O 


7 7 








FOREGO 2 1.2 12 


«::> q 


1 1 








S EGRET AR IT 2 13 13 


9 9 


1 1 








FOOLISH PL 2 


8 8 


7 7 








RUFFIAN - 2 


1.3 


13 


8 8 


...., *7 








BOLD RULER 2 


1.2 


1.2 


9 9 


5 5 








GALLANT MA 2 


1. 


1. 


9 9 


1 1 








ROUND TABL 2 


1. 


1.0 


9 9 


8 8 








TIM TAM 2 


9 9 










SWORD DANC 2 9 9 


8 8 


9 9 








KELSO 2 10 10 


9 9 


1 1 








CARRY BACK 2 S 8 


9 9 


i::' t:: 








CICADO 2 7 7 


7 7 


6 6 








NORTHERN D 2 10 10 


8 8 










MAN O'WAR- 2 13 13 


9 9 


1 1 








SILKY SULL 3 1 1 


1 3 1 3 


13 .13 








RABBIT 2 J- 3 


1.3 


1 1 


1 1 








COL* BAY 13 


1.2 


1 1 1 


9 8 








THE GEN 1 13 


1.3 


1 3 1 


1 1 








THE ONE 1 


1. 3 


1 3 1 3 


1 3 I 3 








ALL BUT ON 1 1 1 


1 3 1 3 


1 1 








CAN DO - 1 2 2 


6 6 


l o :l. o 








DON'T SAY- 077 


;:•■ 7 


7 7 








PERSONAL IT 7 7 




7 7 








RUFF 1 RED 1 7 7 


"7 7 


.... y 








- 





o o 








(> Q 














- 





o 








•••-■ 














•~- ■-■ ■-• 





























• 


■ 











- 





























— 





























READY 












RUN ■ 












FILE : RACE -D 












RETURN TO ENTER HORSES nr ' 


ANYTHING TO 


CLEAR FILE f 








RETURN TO READ RATINGS OR 


ANYTHING TO 


|>iP'. T v INPUT 








IDv NAME ? 29 v NAME IT 












CLASS AND 6 RATINGS ? 0,11 


! y 1 2 y 6 ? 6 » 6 y 6 










RETURN TO READ RATINGS OR 


ANYTHING TO 


INPUT ? INPUT 








ID y NAME ? ??, 












READY 










162 


April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



























** 



^ 




MPI 

MODEL 88T 

IMPACT 

MATRIX 

PRINTER 



The first of a series of new, full-capability, low cost, high 
performance printers designed by MPI to meet the 
requirements of the general use computer market - hobbyist 
or professional. 

SPECIFICATIONS 



• Impact Bidirectional 

• 7x7 Dot Matrix 

• lOO Characters Per Second 

• 80, 96 and 132 Column 

• lO Lines Per Second 

• Tractor and Friction Feed 

• Normal Paper Roll, Fan-fold or 
Cut Sheets 



• 115/230 VAC ±10%. 50/60 Hz. 

• 96 ASCII Upper and Lower 

• RS232C; 20 ma. Current Loop 

• 110-1200 BAUD 

• 2 Line Buffer; 

1 or 2 K Optional 

• Centronics Parallel 

• 41x27x16 cm; 7 Kg 



Sigma International, Inc. is master international distributor 
for MPI and seeks dealers/distributors worldwide. Please 
write us on your letterhead at the following address: 

SIGMA INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
P.O.Box 1118 SCOTTSDALE, AZ 85252 USA 

Tel. (602) 994-3435 Tix. 165-745 Sigma Cable: SIGMAS 



LRC 
EATON 

MODEL 7000+ 
IMPACT PRINTER 




Simple Design 
Simple Maintenance 

Simple Interfacing to: 

- Apple 

- Pet 

- TRS-80 

- Exidy 

- OSI 

and many other 
personal computers 



The 7COO+ was designed to provide the per- 
sonal computer user with an inexpensive, yet 
reliable printer. Take a look - you won't regret it! 




• Impact Unidirectional 

• 1.25 LPS; SO CPS 

• 40 or 64 Column 

• 5 x 7 Dot Matrix 



SPECIFICATIONS 

• Standard Paper Rolls 

• lOO Million Character Printhead 
Life (minimum) 

• 6 LPI Line Spacing 



Substantial Dealer Discounts are Available. 

OEM inquiries are invited. Please contact: 

SIGMA INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

P.O. Box 1 1 18 SCOTTSDALE, AZ 85252 USA 

Tel. (602) 994-3455 Tlx. 165-745 Sigma Cable: SIGMAS 



WIR LADEN EIN! 

Handeln Sie als Wiederverkdufer mit Microcomputer- 
systemen und Peripheriegeraten und sehen sich 
daher gezwungen, mit den immer noch uberhohten 
PreisenJhrer jetzigen Lieferanten zu kalkulieren? Dann 
wahlen Sie doch den einfacheren Weg und beziehen 
direkt aus den USA! 

Sigma ist weltweiter Lieferant fuhrender 
amerikanischer Hersteller und offeriert Preise und 
Service, wie sie Ihnen keine andere Quelle bieten 



Unter anderem verkaufen wir Gerate der Firmen: 



Centronics 
Century Da 



npact Data 
idustrial Micro 
itearal Data 



Control Data Konan 
xidy LRC Eaton 



North Star 
Ohio Scientific 
PerSci 
Qume 



Micro Peripherals Televideo 



Houston Inst, N.E.< 



Texas Instruments 



Vir laden Sie daher em, kostenlos unsere neueste 
>reisliste anzufordern, und Sie werden feststellen, dass 
»ie wesentlich gunstiger kaufen konnen Bitte 
chreiben Sie - auf Kopfbogen - an folgende 
\dresse: < m 



Sigma 



SIGMA INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
P.O.Box 1118 SCOTTSDALE, AZ 85252 USA 

Tel. (602)994-3435 Tlx. 165-745 Sigma Cable: SIGMAS 



IMPACT DATA 

MODEL 801 

THE HEAVY DUTY WORKHORSE 
AT THE 
AFFORDABLE PRICE. 



• 7x7 Impact Dot Matrix 

• 132 CPS (max.) 

• 96 Character Upper/Lower 
ASCII 

• 8.0 in. (20.3 cm) Line Length 

• 80 or 96 Columns ~* ' 

• 6 LPI Line Spacing 

• Tractor or Friction Feed 

• 127 Character Buffer - 2 K Optional 

• Feed at SO LPM Printing - 560 LPM Slewing 

• Continuous Loop Ribbon with Re-inking Roller - 
Life 

• Paper is Standard Fan-fold, Multi-copy Computer Forms up to 
9-5/8" (24.45 cm) 

• 8-bit Parallel (Centronics Compatible). RS232 or 20 ma. Current 
Loop interfaces, 110/1200 BAUD. Switch Selectable 

• 115 VAC, 3A, 60 Hz or 220 VAC, 1.5A, 50 Hz. 

• 12"H x 18" W x 14" D (30 x 45 x 35 cm) 

High Quality • High Technology • Low Price 

Substantial Dealer/ Distributor 
Discounts Available 

SIGMA INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

P.O. Box 11 1 8 SCOTTSDALE, AZ 85252 USA 

Tel. (602) 994-3435 Tix. 165-745 Sigma Cable. SIGMAS 




5 Million Character 



Circle 92 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 163 



Key Variables 


T$(864) 


represent the track displayed 


T1$(54) 


54 blanks used in printing of the track's center 


T3$(60) 


60 blanks used to set track * 


N$(12) 


the 12 horses' post positions for printing the track 


M(12 t 6,4) 


12 = the 12 horses that can be in a race 




6 = the 6 individual ratings 




4 = each rating broken into 5 possibilities 


0(12) 


the odds of each horse winning 


H(U,11) 


U = number of horses in the run 




11=0 class 




1-6 ratings 




7 races run 




8 firsts 




9 seconds 




10 thirds 




1 1 earnings 


H${A) 


horses' names 


R(99,3) 


99 represents the 100 races 




3 = type/distance/* horses 




1 purse 




2 winning time 




3 race winner 


R$(48) 


types of races 


A(12,9) 


12 = twelve horses 




9 = ID of horse 




1 weight 




2 location of horse 




3 what lane horse is in 




4-7 position at the start, half, stretch, finish 




8 length behind or ahead 




9 time 


Functions by Line Number (S = subroutine) 


1 thru 35 Set variables and request historical file name 


40 thru 65 Read historical file 


70 thru 90 Select action code 


5000 thru 5040S Prints list of horses 


6000 thru 6099S Prints statistics (past performances) 


7000 thru 7290S Runs race 


7300 thru 7360S Prints results of race 


7900 thru 


7920S Set what parts of each race will be placed in at the "start, half, 




stretch" 


8000 thru 8040S Clears track 


8100 thru 


8140S Prints prerace list of horses with odds 


8200 thru 


8260S Automatic selection of horses to be included in a race 


9000 thru 


9195S Prints track 


9300 thru 


9350S Sets the odds 


9400 thru 


9440S Sets weights for allowance and handicap races 


9500 thru 


9530S Calculates win, place, and show payoffs 


9600 thru 


9601 S Calculates times 


9700 thru 971 OS Updates summary records 


9800 thru 9825S Updates individual records 


9900 thru 991 OS Updates general race file to indicate what data is pertinent to 




each race date 


9950 thru 9995 Writes all data to files and ends program 


Table 1: List 


of all key variables and functional routines used in the RACE program. 







File Structure 


Type 
Code 


Number of 
Records x 


Size of 1 
Record 


= 


Total 
Bytes 


1 


100 


20 




2000 


2 


40 


72 




2880 


3 


400 


50 




20000 




540 


142 




24880 



Contains 

History of each racing date: 

variable R(99,3) 
Summary of historical data for 

each horse: variable H(U t 11) 
Detail history of last 10 races run 

by each horse 

or 98 blocks ot 256 bytes 



Organization of File 

100 type 1 records 

followed by 40 groupings of 1 type 2 record and 10 type 3 records 

Table 2: Detailed description of the file structure used to implement the horse race 
simulation. 



Text continued from page 160: 

which ratings 1 thru 13 are converted. 
Therefore, the 51555 in line 1000 of 
listing 9 corresponds to rating 13: the 
thirteenth piece of data represented 
on lines 20 and 30 of RACE-I. 

Table 2 details the file structure 
used. North Star BASIC allows you 
to read disk files by bit location. 
Records can therefore be of varying 
sizes and can be read sequentially or 
by random access. You must know 
what you are reading, or type errors 
(reading a string variable into a non- 
string variable or vice versa) will 
occur and terminate the program. 

In program RACE, the computer 
must always know the current race 
day, in order to update the proper 
race. This feature was added to save 
storage space. As detailed in table 1, 
variable R(99,3) carries the data com- 
mon to each race, so individual past 
performance records for each horse 
need not carry this information. In 
order to accomplish this, an attempt 
is made to read the first 100 records of 
the file sequentially (lines 40 and 45 of 
listing 14, RACE program). As soon 
as a blank record is encountered, the 
read process is terminated and the 
computer assigns this point as the 
current race day. 

Next, the computer reads only the 
summary information of the horses 
selected for the run. This is done by 
random-access read operations. The 
location of the summary record is 
always 2000 bytes + (identification 
number X 572 bytes). These opera- 
tions are seen in lines 50 to 65 of 
listing 14. But why not read all infor- 
mation? The answer is memory limi- 
tations. Assuming a forty-horse run, 
an additional 20,000 bytes of memory 
would be required. 

During the design of this program, 
a timing test program for disk reads 
and writes was developed. This was 
done to minimize execution times and 
to serve as a guide in writing future 
applications. 

Listing 10 shows the output of this 
test and a sample run. The program 
prints its start time "7 31 37" (7 hours, 
31 minutes, 37 seconds). The next 
time represents the time when ten 
new records are added to the file. The 
last time corresponds to when the 
program finishes reading the ten 
records five times each. These times 
are approximate, since the smallest 

Text continued on page 172 



164 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 




An Extraordinary Offer to introduce you to the benefits of Membership in 

ELECTRONICS BOOK CLUB 



invites you to take C 
this 1,302-page ® 



robotics library 
for only 



Di9»?' i.« «««. 



On «••'•! 




Build Your Own Working Robot 



Complete instructions — plans, schematics, logic circuits, and 
wiring diagrams— for building Buster, the most unique pet in 
the world! Not for novices, Buster is a sophisticated experiment 
in cybernetics. You build him in 3 phases, and watch his 
personality develop as you add progressively more advanced 
circuitry to his mainframe. The first-phase robot, Buster I, is 
"leash-led," and dependent on his master for decision-making; 
Buster II has a basic brain; equipped with a wireless mike, he 
can enter a room and talk with the occupants. Buster III responds 
when called, and when "hungry" finds his charger, and plugs 
himself in. Watch his personality evolve as you build him from 
the ground up in a learning experience unparalleled in electronic 
construction. 238 pps,, 117 illus. List $8.95. 




Handbook Of Remote Control & Au 



nation Techniques 



A practical, step-by-step guide to designing, building, and 
installing hundreds of remote control systems, and scores of 
automated devices. .from garage door openers to light sensors, 
from intercom controls to electromechanical timers— to inter- 
facing a microprocessor with household devices. You'll learn how 
to apply electronic and mechanical techniques to re mote- control 
with computers, with audible tones, with ultrasonics, with radio 
waves, with light beams, with dozens of special systems. You 
can build light and power failure sensors, position indicators, 
tone-operated systems, tone generators, RC hydraulic de- 
vices. ..and you'll see how to interface mechanical devices, 
hydraulic systems, and electric motors with electronic systems. 
294 pps„ 250 illus. List $12.95. 



Digital Interfacing With An Analog World 



A GIANT 406-page handbook that shows you how to design 
circuits to interface microprocessors, computers, telephones, 
and other digital devices with the analog world, .that shows you 
how to realty put your microcomputer to work to measure certain 
conditions, or to control external devices. Tells you all about how 
to go about it— how to convert energy produced by pressure, 
force, position, temperature, etc. into an electrical voltage or 
current your microcomputer can deal with. It shows you, tells you, 
describes and discusses things you can do with those I/O ports 
other than connect them up to a prefabricated peripheral! It's a 
"meaty" volume chock-full of practical info on a wide range of 
topics for engineers, computer hobbyists, engineering techni- 
cians, and robotics builders. 406 pps., 277 illus. List $12.95. 



The Complete Handbook Of Robotics 



How to design and build ANY kind of robot.. .including ones with 
microprocessor "brains" — PLUS how to interface robots with 
computers! It's a single sourcebook that contains all the 
techniques you'll need for creating, designing, building, and 
operating your own robot from beginning to end... with enough 
options to create a whole family of robotic wonders— controls 
can be electrical or electronic; power can be electrical, hydraulic, 
or pneumatic; your robot can operate by radio control or with a 
full range of sensors to move about on its own. This practical 
volume gives ALL the info needed to build a walking, talking 
friend and companion, or even a helpful servant. Includes 7 
Chapters on advanced robot circuits, controls, and sensors. 364 
pps., 137 illus. List $12.95. 



Let us send you this 4-volume, 1,302-page 
Robotics Library as part of an unusual offer 
of a Trial Membership in Electronics Book Club. 
Here are quality hardbound volumes, each 
especially designed to help you increase your 
know-how, earning power, and enjoyment of elec- 
tronics. Whatever your interest in electronics, 
you'll find Electronics Book Club offers practical, 
quality books that you can put to immediate use 
and benefit. 

This extraordinary offer is intended to prove 
to you through your own experience, that these 
very real advantages can be yours... that it is pos- 
sible to keep up with the literature published in 
your areas of interest, and to save substantially 
while so doing. As part of your Trial Membership, 
you need purchase as few as four books during the 



Only $1.99 for 
ALL FOUR! 

Regular List 
Price $47.80 

Top-Quality 
Hardbinding 

Contains the 
very latest 
info on 
Robotics! 

Almost 800 
illustrations 

Contains over 
500,000 words 

1,302 data- 
packed pages 



coming 12 months. You would probably buy at 
least this many anyway, without the substantial 
savings offered through Club Membership. 

To start your Membership on these attrac- 
tive terms, simply fill out and mail the coupon 
today. You will receive the 4-volume Robotics 
Library for 10-day inspection. YOU NEED SEND 
NO MONEY. If you're not delighted, return the 
books within 10 days and your Trial Membership 
will be cancelled without cost or obligation. 

ELECTRONICS BOOK CLUB, Blue Ridge Summit, Pa. 17214 



Facts About Club Membership 



• The 4 introductory books carry a publisher's retail price of 
$47.80. They are yours for only $1.99 for all 4 (plus postage/ 
handling) with your Trial Membership. 

• You will receive the Club News, describing the current Selec- 
tion, Alternates, and other books, every 4 weeks (13x a year). 

• If you want the Selection, do nothing; it will be sent to you 
automatically. If you do not wish to receive the Selection, or if you 
want to order one of the many Alternates offered, you simply give 
instructions on the reply form (and in the envelope) provided, 
and return it to us by the date specified. This date allows you at 
least 10 days in which to return the form. If, because of late mail 
delivery, you do not have 10 days to make a decision and so 
receive an unwanted Selection, you may return it at Club ex- 
pense 

• To complete your Trial Membership, you need buy only four 
additional monthly Selections or Alternates during the next 12 
months You may cancel your Membership any time after you 
purchase these four books. 

• All books — including the Introductory Offer — are fully return- 
able after 10 days if you're not completely satisfied. 

• All books are offered at low Member prices, plus a small 
postage and handling charge 

• Continuing Bonus: If you continue after this Trial Membership, 
you will earn a Dividend Certificate for every book you purchase. 
Three Certificates.plus payment of the nominal sum of $1.99 will 
entitle you to a valuable Book Dividend of your choice which you 
may choose from a list provided Members. 



ELECTRONICS BOOK CLUB 

Blue Ridge Summit, Pa. 17214 

Please open my Trial Membership in ELEC- 
TRONICS BOOK CLUB and send my 4-volume 
Robotics Library, invoicing me for only $1.99 
plus shipping. If not delighted, I may return the 
books within 10 days and owe nothing, and 
have my Trial Membership cancelled. I agree 
to purchase at least four additional books 
during the next 12 months after which I may 
cancel my membership at any time. by4 



Name_ 



. Phone_ 



Address. 



City_ 



State _ 



.Zip_ 



Circle 93 on inquiry card, 



(Valid for new Members only. Foreign and Canada add 1 5 . J RE-29 
BYTE April 1980 165 



•CQiriPUTHQWICSi 

• • • E VERYTHING FOR YOUR TRS-80 • • • 

TRSRO Is a trademark of the Radio Sha< k Division of Tandy Corporation 

* All Orders processed within 24-Hours 

• Free Shipping within U.P.S. areas (add $3 for orders outside of the U.S.A. or U.P.S. areas}. 
• 30-Day Money Back Guarantee on all Software (less a $3 penalty for handling). 
* 10-Day Money Back Guarantee on Disk Drives and Printers PLUS 1 20-Day s Free Service. 



• LEARNING LEVEL II by David Lien 

The Original Author Of The Level Manual 
A Step By Step approach to Learning Level II 
especially geared to new TRS-80"" Owners 

$1595 



• TRS-80 DISK AND OTHER MYSTERIES 
$19.95 ($22.95 after 2/1/80). Over 100 pages 
of indespensible information for disk owners 
Learn to recover information from bad disks, 
how to make Basic programs unlistable and 12 
more chapters of never published tips and infor- 
mation Written by H C Pennington <For all 
Disk Owners) 



NEW SBSG BUSINESS SYSTEM FOR 
MODEL I OR MODEL II - IN STOCK 

- General Ledger 

- Accounts Receivable 

- Accounts Payable 

- Payroll 

- Inventory Control With Invoicing 

• Each module can be operated individually 
or as a coordinated SYSTEM. Turn-Key error 
catching operation for beginners 

• Complete manual and documentation 
accompany each program 

• Minimum System requirements 2-Disk 
Drives for Model l...1-Disk Drive for Model II 

• Each module can be formatted to span data 
on Upto 4-Disk Drives 

• Free 30-Day telephone consultation 

• Call for complete specifications 

• Model I Version $125 per module 
$495 per System 

• Model II Version $225 per module 
$995 per System 



DATA MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS 

- DMS replace index cards or any data 
requiring long lists of information. 

• TBS In-Memory Information System 

(for cassette systems) $24.50 

• TBS Disk Data Manager (requires 1 or more 
disk drives). ..Set up fast random access 
files in minutes. Stores up to 320K of 
information on 4 Drives. Up to 10 fields 
and 255 characters per record. Supports 
upper and lower case RS-232 or TRS-232... 
Features complete editing $49.50 

• Personal Software CCA Data Management 
System.. Completely user oriented, menu 
drive, 130 page Step by Step Manual... 
capable of inventory control, sorting data, 
reporting data in nearly any form (for reports 
and mailing labels). Sorts data by up to 10 
fields for zip code, balance due, geographic 
location or whatever. Prints reports with 
subtotals and totals automatically calculated. 
Fast random access $75.00 



•CamRJTRQNICSi 

Box 149 New City, New York 10956 



FROM RACET COMPUTES 

• REMODEL-PROLOAD - Renumbers pro- 
gram lines, combines programs The only re- 
number program that will renumber the middle 
of a program Specify 16K. 32K or 48K Works 
with Cassette or Disk . . . $34.95 

• GSF - Use in your Basic Programs for Instant 
Sorting (will sort 1000 items tn 9seconds) Other 
commands include Compress and Uncompress 
Data. Duplicate Memory. Display Screen 
Controls and Fast Graphic Controls . . . $24.95 
(For Cassette or Disk, specify 16K. 32K or 48K) 

• DOSORT - All G S F commands plus special 
Multiple Disk Sorting Routines . . . $34.95 
(Specify 32K or 48K) 

• INFINITE BASIC - Adds 70 commands to 
your TRS-80 including Instant Sort, Matrix 
Commands, String Commands, Left and Right 
Justification. String Centering. Simultaneous 
Equations. Upper and Lower Case Reverse and 
more . . . $49.95 (For Cassette or Disk) 

• INFINITE BUSINESS (Requires Infinite Basic) - 
Eliminate Round-off error 127-Digit Calcula- 
tion Accuracy, Insert New Elements in Sorted 
Arrays, Automatic Page Headings. Footings, 
and Pagination. Multiple Precision Arithmetic 
and more . . . $29.95. (For Cassette or Disk) 

• COPSYS - Copy Machine Language 
Programs . . . $14.95 (For Cassette only) 



FROM SMALL SYSTEM SOFTWARE 

• RSM-2 Machine Language Monitor . . . $26.95 

• RSM-2D Disk Version of RSM-2 . . . $29.95 

• DCV-1 Converts Machine Language Programs 
from tape to disk . . . $9.95 

• AIR RAID - The ultimate TRS-80 game con- 
verts your TRS-80 into a real time shooting 
gallery . . . $14.95 

• BARRICADE - A fast pong style game . . $14.95 

• CPM - $150 (for Disk only) 

• TRS-232 INTERFACE - Interface with Soft- 
ware driver RS-232 printers to your 

TRS-80 .. . $49.95 

• TRS-232 FORMATTER Additional 
(optional) Software for TRS-232 owners Ads 
many pnntet commands to your 

TRS-80 . . . $14.95 ($9 95 with purchase of 
TRS-232) 



MAIL PAC - For Model I or Model II Disk 
Systems only . . . $99.95. Quick-sorting full user 
control over mailing list from Gallactic Software 



FROM ADVENTURELAND INTERNATIONAL 

• ADVENTURE #1 - #8 by Scott Adams . 
$14.95 each available on Cassette or Disk 



SARGON II 
THE CHESS CHAMP 

$29.95 



FROM APPARAT 
NEW DOS ♦ $99.95 

35. 40 and 77 Track Versions available 



48-Page Catalog $2 FREE With Any Order 

Order by Phone or Mail 

No Shipping Charge 

Add $3 for COD. 

Add $3 for all Foreign and non UPS shipments 

Add $3 for UPS Blue Label 

166 BYTE April 1980 



FROM THE BOTTOM SHELF 

• CHECKBOOK II (for Cassette or Disk) . . 
$18.50 

• INFORMATION SYSTEM (for Cassette or 
Disk . . . $24.50 

• SYSTEM DOCTOR (a complete diagnosis of 
your TRS-80 checks memory, video cassette, 
disk. ROM and all other parts of your system) - 
for Cassette or Disk . . . $28.50 

• CHECKBOOK REGISTER ACCOUNT- 
ING SYSTEM (requires 2 disk drives) . . $49.50 

• LI8RARY 100 - 100 established business, 
game and educational programs plus FREE Tiny 
Pilot all for . . . $49.50 

• BASIC TOOL KIT - lists all variables, GOTO's 
and GOSUB's m your program . . . $19.80 



• SOUNDWARE - Ads sound to your TRS-80 
Just plus it in . . .$29.95. Sample programs 
included 

• TING TONG - Can be used with Soundware 
for a Sound version of pong . . . $9.95. 



VIC-The Carta Visual Instructional $19 95 
Computer Program 

The Level II 16K Cassette is designed to teach ! 
beginners the Basics of Machine Language and !' 
Assembly Language Programming See every 
Machine Language Instruction Display on 
your -Video 
VIC includes a Step By Step 55 page manual 



VISTA V80 DISK DRIVE 

110 K OF STORAGE 

$395 

Add $29 95 for Cable 

(Free with Purchase of Two Disk Drives) 
— 10 Day Money Back Guarantee — 






FROM HOWE SOFTWARE 

MON-3 - Machine Language Programming for 
Beginners MON-3 is a Complete 
System Monitor with Users 
Manual $39.95 

MON-4 - Disk Version of MON-3 . . . $49.95 



LEVEL III BASIC . . . $49.95 FROM 
MICROSOFT - Now Cassette owners can add 
Disk Commands to their TRS-80 without owning 
a Disk Drive 



BRAND NEW OLIVETTI PRINTER . $2495 

Business Letter quality print. Automatic Line 
Justification (on request), Quick Printing, can 
be used as a Memory Typewriter, plugs right 
into your TRS-80 without any modification or 
software 



THE ELECTRIC PENCIL 

Cassette . . . $99.95 

Disk . . . $150.00 



HORSE SELECTOR II by Dr Haf Dav.s 
$50. The TRS-80version updated for the TRS-80 ; 
and originally reviewed m Systems and 
Methods 




24 

HOUR ORDER LINE 

(914) 425-1535 




Circle 94 on inquiry card. 



THE ORIGINAL MAGAZINE FOR 
OWNERS OF THE TRS-80™* MICROCOMPUTER 



SOFTWARE 

FOR TRS-80 " 

OWNERS 



H 



CQMPJTRQMCS 

MONTHLY NEWSMAGAZINE 

Practical Support For Model I & II 



j MONTHLY 

|| NEWSMAGAZINE 
J FOR TRS-80 " 
C. OWNERS 



PRACTICAL APPLICATIONS 
BUSINESS 

GAMBLING • GAMES 
EDUCATION 
PERSONAL FINANCE 
BEGINNER'S CORNER 
NEW PRODUCTS 
SOFTWARE EXCHANGE 
MARKET PLACE 
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS 
PROGRAM PRINTOUTS 
AND MORE 



PROGRAMS AND ARTICLES PUBLISHED IN OUR FIRST 12 ISSUES 
INCLUDE THE FOLLOWING: 

A COMPLETE INCOME TAX PROGRAM (LONG AND SHORT FORM) 

INVENTORY CONTROL 

STOCK MARKET ANALYSIS 

WORD PROCESSING PROGRAM (FOR DISK OR CASSETTE) 

LOWER CASE MODIFICATION FOR YOUR VIDEO MONITOR OR PRINTER 

PAYROLL (FEDERAL TAX WITHHOLDING PROGRAM) 

EXTEND 16 DIGIT ACCURACY TO TRS-80 T * FUNCTIONS (SUCH AS 

SQUARE ROOTS AND TRIGONOMETRIC FUNCTIONS) 

NEW DISK DRIVES FOR YOUR TRS-80'" 

PRINTER OPTIONS AVAILABLE FOR YOUR TRS-80™ 

A HORSE SELECTION SYSTEM***ARITHMETIC TEACHER 

COMPLETE MAILING LIST PROGRAMS (BOTH FOR DISK OR CASSETTE 

SEQUENTIAL AND RANDOM ACCESS) 

RANDOM SAMPLING***BAR GRAPH 

CHECKBOOK MAINTENANCE PROGRAM 

LEVEL II UPDATES***LEVEL II INDEX 

CREDIT CARD INFORMATION STORAGE FILE 

BEGINNER'S GUIDE TO MACHINE LANGUAGE AND ASSEMBLY 

LANGUAGE 

LINE RENUMBERING 

AND CASSETTE TIPS, PROGRAM HINTS, LATEST PRODUCTS 

COMING SOON (GENERAL LEDGER. ACCOUNTS PAYARLF AND 
RECEIVABLE, FORTRAN 80, FINANCIAL APPLICATIONS PACKAGE. 
PROGRAMS FOR HOMEOWNERS, MERGE TWO PROGRAMS, 
STATISTICAL AND MATHEMATICAL PROGRAMS (BOTH 
ELEMENTARY AND ADVANCED) . . . AND 



*? 



& 



6r 



WORD PROCESSING PROGRAM 

(Cassette or Disk) 

For writing letters, text, mailing lists, etc., with each 
new subscriptions or renewal. 

LEVEL II RAM TEST 

(Cassette or Disk) 

Checks random access memory to ensure that all memory 
locations are working properly. 



DATA MANAGEMENT SYS T KM 
(Cassette or Disk) 

Complete file management for your TRS-80 T ' 

CLEANUP 

(Cassette or Disk) 

Fast action Maze Game. 



:m ^ 



IKS 80'" IS A TKAIHMARK OF 1ANDY CORP 



SEND FOR OUR NEW 48 PAGE SOFTWARE CATALOG (INCLUDING LISTINGS OF HUNDREDS OF TRS-80'" PROGRAMS AVAILABLE ON 
CASSETTE AND DISKETTE). $2.00 OR FREE WITH EACH SUBSCRIPTIONS OR SAMPLE ISSUE. 



•CQMRITHQNICSi 



Box 149 New City, New York 10956 

ONE YEAR SUBSCRIPTION $24 

TWO YEAR SUBSCRIPTION $48 

SAMPLE OF LATEST ISSUE $ 4 

START MY SUBSCRIPTION WITH ISSUE 

(#1 - July 1978 • #7 - January 1979 • #12 - June 1979 • #18 - January 1980) 




HOUR 
24 ORDER 

LINE 
(914) 425-1535 




NEW SUBSCRIPTION 



RENEWAL 



CREDIT CARD NUMBER _ 
SIGNATURE 



EXP. DATE_ 



NAME 

ADDRESS . 



. STATE. 



^ZIP_ 



"• ADD $6 YEAR (CANADA. MEXICO) - ADD S12/YEAR AIR MAIL - OUTSIDE OF USA., CANADA & MEXICO *** 



Circle 95 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 167 



Listing 9: Section of code from the RACE program edited to eliminate all file references. 



LOAD RACE 

READY 

,.' ■...■ 

Dt-L 40? 45 

READY 

EDIT 50 

S o Y = A \ F R A ?s 1 U \ A I ■"■ ( 1 * A ) + 1 

In' REA £» h$( Al <ALf?> »HCAtO) rH<iftf".l ) vH» Av2) fH(A.f3) vH< Av4> >H<A*5) 

65 READH(A.6)\NEXT 

1 000 HA FA " F E EST HAT A " t 1 $ : 'i I SiV.'i f v > I ?#b^ i & J '^ " 5 * -'^ v b '■ '"'^ " ' J :1 Vju 

EDIT 1000 , ^ 

i o n 1 vi a t a " s i: r d n o r r y ■ > t >■ : j j. ■ ^ii * o t w * 9 r j J ' < : ■ ' ■ * t* * ' • ^ ■- > - 1 l ■• : ■ ' ' : ' ■ * •'■ - ;j ■ * 

6000 RETURN 
DEL 6010s 60?? 
RE A Li Y 
? I 1 
E.ri:n 00 10 

8 1 F R 2 - 1 T i 5 \ r $ - T a * f T * \ N E XT \R E ! OR N 
DEL 8020*8140 

READY 

9000 RETURN 

DEL 900:1 r919fi 

READY 

9 50 END 

DEL 9960? 9995 

READY 

RUN 

RAHOGM NUN ? 2 
# Of HORSES ? 2 

1 FOR LIST OF HORSES 

2 FOR STATISTICS 

3 I OR RACE 
10 END ? 1 



'S3: 



:i:d name 



R# 1 



$ WON ID NAM' fct 1 2 ,3 * WON 
$0, 1 SECOND TRY *©• 



FIRS I DATA 
READY TO RETURN ? 

I. FOR LIST OF HORSES 

2 FOR STATISTICS 

3 FOR RACE 

TO END f 3 7782 

Tri ,J • ALL I STALLS 2-AI LOUJANl i: i CONDITIONED 4 MAIDEN S -HANDICAP 6 WOK 

MSIANCE^ 6 TO 12 FURLONGS MAXIMUM HORSES ~ 12 

TYPE y DISTANCE * HORSES? 6*6 f 2 

YES FOR AUTOMATIC SELECT, ? YES 

ID START & 3D END SEARCH ? 0*1 

POST 1 SECOND TRY 

POST 2 Ft RST DATA 



\OUT 



ID NArtfc 



W T P 



H 



I BY L MISS J 



FIRST DATA 120 2 
;!. SECOND FRY 120 1 



2 2 1 BY II B«0 
t ;l. 2 BY It 8*0 



ODDS 

♦ 00 
.00 



READY? 



168 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Dl3CjnOSuCS I for CP/M* & TRSDOS 



Softieday your computer is going to break; even the most reliable 
computer systems "go down". Often, finding exactly what is 
wrong can account for the most time consuming part of repairing 
the system, and the longer the system is down, the more 
money you lose. 

DIAGNOSTICS I is a complete program package designed to check 

every major area of your computer, detect errors, and find the 
cause of most common computer malfunctions, often before they 
become serious. For years, la : - ns have run daily 

or weekly diagnostic routine: art of normal system 

maintenance and check-out pi js . 

DIAGNOSTICS I is designed to provide that kind of performance 
testing for 8080/Z80 micro computers. 

DIAGNOSTICS I will really put your system through its paces. Each 
test is exhaustive and thorough. The tests include: 



•Memory Test 
-Disk Test 
•Printer Test 



•CPU Test (;808(y/8085/Z8Q,) 
•CRT Test 



To our knowledge, this is the first CPU test available for 8080/Z80 
CPU's. Many times transient problems, usually blamed on bad 
memory, are really CPU errors, 

A good set of diagnostics is an indispensable addition to your 
program library even if your system is working fine. Hours have been 
wasted trying to track down a "program bug" when actually 
hardware was to blame? 

DIAGNOSTICS I also allows you to be confident of your system. 
This can be critical when file merges or sorts and backups 
are involved, You want to be as sure of your computer as possible 
during these critical times. Running DIAGNOSTICS I prior to 
these and other important functions helps to insure that your 
system is operating at peak performance. 



Requires: 24K CP/M; I6K disc for TRS40 
formats: CP/M 8" SOFT SECTORED, NORTHSTAR CP/M 
ANDTRS-80D08 

All Orders aod General Information: 

SUPERSOFT ASSOCIATES 

P.O. BOX 1628 

CHAMPAIGN, IL 61820 

(217)344-7596 
Technical Hot Line: (217) 384-0847 
(answered only when technician is available) 

Give your computer a "physical" today! 



DIAGNOSTICS I is supplied on discette with a complete 

users manual. 

DIAGNOSTICS I: $50.00 
Manual: $15.00 



r 





V 






SuperScft 

First in Software Technology 



Circle 96 on 



Z?m REGISTERED Tfl 
"80TRA 



^MARK DIGITAL-RESEARCH 
MRKS TANDY CORP 



Listing 10: Listing of the timing test program for disk reads and writes. 



5 DXMV(12) 

tO BOSUB 9857\!U1pU2pU3 
20 OPENtOp B A4y2" 

30 FDRA-:-.rroio 

40 F0RB==lT09\O<B-l )*60 

50 REAB#0%Cr¥<l? 

60 FGRD-2 T012\READ#0 p U ( D ) \NEXT 

70 OC+AO 

BO URlTEiOXCfV(l) 

90 l :: 0RD-2T0;l.2\WRITE#0rV(D) p NGENDHAR1\\NEXT\NFXT 

:l.00 OO\WRXTE*0%C y V ( .1. ) 

1 10 F0RD=2T012\WRITE*0 fV(D)r NGENDMARKXNFXT 

120 NEXT 

1 3 G S U B 9 8 5 7 \ ! U 1 t U 2 p U3 
200 F0RA»1T0S 

2 1 F R B a T 540 S T E P 6 
220 READ#OZBfVCL) 

230 FGRD^2TG1 2\READftO p V ( D > \NEXT 

240 NEXT 

245 NEXT 

250 GGSUB 9857\ ! Ul y U2 y U3 

260 !FREE(0> 

270 END 

9857 FORU»0TO7\U < U > -INP ( 168+U ) \NEXT\U1-10*U ( 7 ) HI ( 6 ) 

9858 U2-10*U ( 5 ) +U ( 1 ) MJ3-1 0*U ( 2 ) \U ( 3 ) \RETIJRN 
READY 

RUN 

7 31 27 
7 32 21 
7 32 30 
18863 
READY 



Listing 11: Some modifications of the previous listing. The use of loops for indexing read/write variables has been eliminated and as 
a result, the program execution time is reduced. 



LGAD A2>2 
READY 
LINE 80 
READY 

50 READ#0ZCpV<1) pV(2> pV<3) rU<4) pV<5) pM<6) pM<73 pV<8) pV<9> pMtlO) rV(ll) pV<12) 

60 

80 WRITE#0%CpU<1) pM<2> pU<3) pV<4) pM<5) rV<6-) pV(7) 

90 URITE*0pV<8)pV<9)pV<10)pV<il>pV<12)pN0ENDMARK:NEXT- 
100 C = 0iUIRITE*0%CpV<l) rUC2»VC3) pV (4> »VC5> p V< 6) pM<7> 
1 1 WR I TE#0 1 V ( 8 ) p M ( 9 > p U < 1 > p M < 1 1 » V ( 1 2 > p NGENDM ARK 

220 REABfOXB fV ( 1 ) p V ( 2 ) p V ( 3 ) p U < 4 ) p V ( 5 ) p U ( 6 ) p M ( 7 ) p U ( 8 ) p M ( 9 ) y U ( 10 ) p U ( 1 1 ) p U ( 12 ) 
2 3 

RUN 

7 47 
7 47 37 

7 47 43 
18715 
READY 



170 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 




1 year subscription to The 

Eighty, monthly magazine for 

TRS-80* owners, with 

any order! 

1-800-258-1 790 
TOLL FREE 

Jin N.H. call 673-5144) 



The Software 
Exchange 



CATALOGS 



HardSide Hardware (24 pgs.) 
TSE Software (64 pgs.) 
(603) 673-5144 

6 SouthStrixH,B(}x68,Milford,Nt1 03055 



2 DATA BASE 
MANAGERS! 

Dynamic Data Base by Ken Knecnt 

Easy to use, flexible data base 
system on diskette. $39.95. 

CCA Data Management 

from Personal Software 

More powerful system with 100 
page manual and many options. 

$79.95 (add $3. shipping) 

GAMES 

TRS-SG Opera Theatre Magnificent sound! by 

Richard Taylor. $9.95 

Allen Invasion by Roy Niederhoffer. $9 95 

X-WIng II by Chris Freund. Level II, 16K $9 95 

Talpan by Art Canfill Level II. 16K $9 95 

Sargon II by Dan and Kathe Spracklen Level II, 

16K $29.95 

Amazln* Mazes by Robert Wallace. Level II. 16K 

$7.95 

Android Nlm by Leo Chnstopherson With 

sound. Level II. 16K $14.95 

Bee Wary by Leo Christopherson, with sound. 

Level ll. 16K $14.95 

9 Games for Preschool Children by George 

Blank. Level II, 16K $9.95 

Space Battles by Level IV, bevel II. 16K Tape or 

32K Disk, Tape-$14.95, Disk-$19.95 

Star Trek 111.4 by Lance Micklus Level II, 16K 

$14.95 

Adventures on Tape by Scott Adams. Level II, 

16K. Choose one: Adventureland, Pirate's Cove, 

Mission Impossible. The Count, VooDoo Castle. 

Strange Odyssey, Pyramid of Doom, and Fun 

House-$14.95 each Adventure Sampler, 16K 

tape, $5.95 

Adventures on Disk by Scott Adams. 1} Mission 

Impossible, Pirate's Cove, Adventureland; or, 2) 

VooDoo Castle, The Count, Strange Odyssey. 

Either set. $39.95. 

Pork Barrel by George Blank. Level II, 16K $9.95 

Mean Checkers Machine by Lance Micklus. 

Level II, 16K; tape, $19.95; disk $24.95 

Krlegsplel by Ron Potkin. Level II. 16K. $7.95 

Galactic Empire and Ualactic Trader (a sequel) 
by Doug Carlston. Level II, 16K, $14.95. Both on 
disk, 32K, $29 95 



NEW 

ST80UC* 

by Lance Micklus 
Now a smart terminal 
package especially for 
beginners on THE 
SOURCE, Micronet, 
and FORUM 80 
16K cassette 
$24.95 



ST-80 Smart Terminal 
Communications Program 

CONTROL key, ESC key, REPEAT 
key, a RUN key, and a functioning 
BREAK key. List incoming data on 
your lineprinter. Level II, 16K 

Reprogram RS232C from 
keyboard, on tape $49.95. 

*A trademark of Lance Micklus, Inc 



Original Adventure by Microsoft. 32K. 1 disk 

$29.95 

Pigskin (Football) by Acorn Software Level II, 

16K $9 95 



PERSONAL 



Typing Tutor by Roger Robitaille. Sr Level II. 

16K $19,95 

Secrets of the Tarot by John T Phillipp Level II. 

16K $9 95 

Advanced Personal Finance by Lance Micklus 

for 32K disk systems $24 95 

I Chlng by John T Phillip Level II. 16K $7 95 



UTILITIES 



T-Short by Web Associates Level II. 16K $9 95 
File Manager 80 by Nepenthe $49 95 32K 
Directory 16K Disk $9 95 

Automated Disk Directory $14 95 32K Disk. Re- 
quires NewDOS. 

Spool Print ASCII files $19 95 (Will not work with 
NewDOS .) 

STAD Trace and Debug Monitor tor tape and 
disk systems 16, 32. and 48K on one tape $24 95 
NEWDOS by Apparat $49 95 
NEWDOS + by Apparat $99.95 
VTOS 3.1 by Randy Cook with 100 pp Manual 
$75. Manual alone $30 With BASIC $99 
RSM2 by Small Systems Software Level II, 16K 
$26 95 

RSM2D by Small Systems Software. Disk for 16 
through 48K (all in one) $29 95 
KVP by Lance Micklus. Tape$29 95; Disk-$34 95 



SUPPLIES 



Diskettes Dysan, (premium quality) box of 5 
$29.95 plus $1.00 shipping; nationally known 
brand, box of 10 ■ $39.95 plus $2. Diskette 



ST-80D (Enhanced Disk 

Version) adds: 

Transmit any type of TRS-80* ASCII 
file, including BASIC programs 
stored in ASCII frormat, and most 
BASIC data files. ST-80 D has been 
used on a variety of timesharing 
systems. For 32 K disk systems, on 
disk,$79.95. 

BUSINESS " ~~ 

Inventory System II. 3 by M. Kelleher. Improved 
version, $79.95 

Inventory 'S' by Roger W. Robitaille, Sr. Level II, 
16K Tape $24.95; 32K Disk,(withinvoicing) 
$59.95. 

Payroll by Stephen Hebbler. For disk systems. 
32K $59 95 

Accounts Receivable II by S. Hebbler 32K disk 
systems $79.95 

Mall List II by SBSG 32K disk systems $99.95 
Small Business Bookkeeping II by R. W. 

Robitaille, Sr. Level II, 16K. With journal -$36.95 
disk, $31.95 tape. $29.95 disk, $24.95 tape. 

SPECIAL PURPOSE 

Electric Pencil by Michael Shrayer. Powerful 

machine language word processing system. 

Level II, 16K tape ■ $100; Disk version ■ $150 

Level III BASIC by Microsoft. $49.95 

Level I In Level II by Apparat Level II, 16K $15.00 

Fortran by Microsoft. 32K 2 Disks. New low 

price $150.00 add $5. shipping 

RX-Basic Cross ReferenceXREF RENUMX. by 

Lance Micklus RX {disk. 32K) $24.95; XREF, L II, 

16K $19.95; RENUMX, L II 16K, $24.95; 

RENUMBER. $7.95 



BOOKS 



Z-80 Software Gourmet Guide and Cookbook, 
from Scelbi $14.95 plus $1 postage 
TRS-80 Disk and Other Mysteries, by Harvard 
Pennington, $19.95 plus $1 handling 



f o* 



COMPlETf 



*fc 



APL 80 by Phelps Gates 

APL for the TRS-80* at a bargain 
price! Level II, 16K, $14.95 or disk ver- 
sion with SAVE and LOAD and printer 
output, plus 4 work spaces of self- 
teaching lessons, plus APL: An In- 
teractive Approach for only $49.95. 



NEW 

ROOTS 

by Bill Sholar 

Genealogy Data Base 
Document your ancestors, 
search and sort functions. 
32Kdisk $19.95 



^ 



Circle 97 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 171 



Listing 12: This listing allows the record file to be updated without an excess of data manipulation. Records are maintained only for 
the most recent ten races. The last digit of the total races run by a horse is used as a pointer. When race number 11 occurs, the results 
are written into location 1, replacing race number 1 (old data). In this way we avoid shifting the entire record file every time a new 



race is run. 



1 )*60: IFB>540THENB-B-540 



LOAD A6y2 

READY 

40 

50 

70 (>:<A-:L>*60 

90 

100 

2:1.0 F "ORC- ATOA + 9 t B- ( A- 

RUN 

8 27 

8 30 

8 38 

18872 
READY 
LIST 

5 DIHMCJL2) 

:I0 GGSUB ?857\MJlrll2»U3 

20 0PEN#O> "Mr 2" 

30 F0RA-1T010 

70 (>:<A-~1>*60 

80 WRITEH:0%CfV<1) >UC2J *V(3> fU(4) pV(5) 9V(6) rV«7) 

110 WRITE*OrV<S) rWX9-> rV410) >V(11) rU(l2) ?NQENDMARK 

120 NEXT 

130 GGSUB 9857\!UlrU2rU3 

200 F0RA-1T05 

210 FORl>ATOAf?\B^(A- -1 > *60\XFB>540THENB^B 540 

220 READ*0%B?V<1) rV(2>>V(3> *U C4> * V(5> rV(&> * MC7) *V<8> f M<9> f M(iO) rUll'l ') *V<12^ 

240 NEXT 

245 NEXT 

250 GGSUB 9857\ ! Ul » U2 t U3 

260 !FREE(0) 

2 70 END 

9857 F0RU»0T07\U ( U ) ^INP ( 168 + U ) \NEXT\U1 s*l 0*U ( 7 ) f U ( 6 ) 

9858 U2« 10*U ( 5 ) +U ( 1 ) \U3- 1 0*U ( 2 ) 1 U ( 3 ) \RETURN 
READY 



Text continued from page 164: 

measurement of time is given in 
seconds. The procedure will be called 
method 1. 

In listing 11, the program was 
edited to eliminate the use of loops in 
indexing read /write variables. This is 
called method 2 and is considerably 
faster than method 1. 

In the racing game only the ten 
most current performance records for 
each horse are maintained. In the two 
tests already timed, this was done by 
keeping each record in a predetermin- 
ed location. The most current record 
is always at a specified location fol- 
lowed by the next most current 
record, etc. This simplifies the read 
operations. However, each time a 

172 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



new record is added, the entire record 
file is shifted to accommodate for the 
addition of a new record, the new 
record is written in the first (most re- 
cent) position, and the record that 
was formerly in the tenth position is 
discarded. 

Instead of employing this pro- 
cedure, method 3 was formulated by 
additional editing shown in listing 12. 
The location of the oldest record is 
calculated, and the new record is 
placed in that location. For example, 
the last digit of the total races run by 
a horse is used as the pointer. If a 
horse has run one race, we write to 
location 1, location 2 for the second 
race, etc. When race number 11 
occurs, it is written to location 1, 



replacing race 1 (the oldest). Race 12 
replaces the second race, etc. This 
procedure reduces the number of disk 
writes required to update the file, but 
adds a calculation for all writes and 
reads. 

Table 3 compares the three 
methods. Method 1 is the least effec- 
tive, method 3 proves to be the best. 
Method 3 is a little slower than 
method 2 in reading files, but is far 
superior in writing disk files. Pro- 
cedures similar to method 3 were 
employed in program RACE. 

Aside from being entertaining, I 
hope that game RACE offers a few 
ideas in reducing program execution 
time and limiting the amount of data 
stored. ■ 



Method 1 Method 2 Method 3 



Time in seconds: 
To write 1 new 

records 
To read all records 

5 times 



54 37 3 

9 6 8 

Table 3: A comparison of the three methods of record maintenance. 



Listing 13: BASIC listing of the RACE-I program. 



READY 
LIST 

10 DIM R(13)*D<6) 

20 F0RA=1T013\READR<A)\NEXT 

30 DATA4585959? * 40708595 * 35608090 * 30608090 * 30557590 * 25507085 * 20406080 

40 DATA15305075* 10254570* 10204070*5153565* 5153060,51555 

50 bPEN#0*"RACE»D" 

55 N$=s- ■ 

56 G0T0200 

57 INPUT-RETURN TO ENTER HORSES OR ANYTHING TO CLEAR FILE ? "*Z* 

58 IFZ$<>" "THEN200 

60 INPUT-RETURN TO READ RATINGS OR ANYTHING TO INPUT ? "*Z$ 

62 IFZ*=" "THEN300 

68 INPUT" ID* NAME ? - * A* A$\IFA<00RA>39THENEND\A*=A*+N* 

70 INPUT-CLASS AND 6 RATINGS ? " *C*R1 * R2*R3*R4*R5*R6 

80 A=2000-f <A*572> 

90 WRITE#0%A*A$*C*R(R1) *R(R2) *R(R3> *R(R4) *R(R5) *R(R6) *NOENDMARK 

100 G0T060 

200 F0RA^0T099\WRITE#0 * I * I * I * I * NOENDMARKNNEXT 

210 F0RA=0T039\Bn=2000+ ( A*572 ) +47\WRITE#0%B * I * I * I * I * I * NOENDMARK\NEXT\END 

300 F0RA=0T039\B^2000+(A*572) 

310 READ*0%B*A$*F*D(1)*D(2)*D<3) *D(4) *D(5) *D(6 ) 

320 F0RB^1T06\F0RC=1T013\IFD(B)^R(C)THENEXIT330\NEXT\G0T0335 

330 D(B>=C 

335 NEXT 

340 ! A$*%5I*F*BU>rD<2) *D(3) *D(4) *D (5> *DC6 ) \NEXT\END 

READY 



Listing 14: North Star BASIC listing of the RACE program for an 8080-based computer. 



:l IN P U T ■ R A N D M N U M ? % B \ F R A « T B \ C « R N D ( ) \ N E X f 

S :;: n p u t - # p f h o r s e s ? ■ * u \ :i: f u / 2 < : > i n t e u / 2 > t h e n u * u * i 

7 X I- U<00RU>40THEN5\A™ =U# 1 0\U *U~ % 

10 DIHT$(864) rTl* (54) *T3*(60) t N$ < 12 ) i M ( 12 v 6 * 4 ) -FC4) * ( 12 ) * I ( 1 * 12 ) 9 1 (12) 

1 5 F ( 1 ) ss 1 \ F ( 2 ) ~ 1 000 \ F ( 3 ) a 1 \ F ( 4 > * 1 

20 D % MH ( U t 1 1 ) y Hf ( A ) 9 R ( 99 r 3 ) * R* ( 48 ) * A ( 1 2 * ? ) * K < 1 2 > * P ( 4 ) 

22 R**« STAKES ALLOW* CONDI T« MAIDEN HAND H;AP WORKOUT ■ 

25 1H P U T " F I L E { % M $ \ P E N # » M $ 

30 T2*«" ♦♦♦•♦• "XL^NESOXN*^" 1 2 3 45 6 ?S 90 A B* 

35 P C 1 ) a , &5\P ( 2 ) * ♦ 2\P ( 3 ) «s , i \p ( 4 ) « # ()5 

40 FQRA«0 F099\READ#0 *R (A .-0 J *RC A * 1 J * R C A >2> * R ( A * 3 ) \ I FR ( A * ) -OTHENEX 1 150 

45 NEXT 

50 Y»A\FORA»0T0 U\AiM10*A)+l\A2»(57?*A) 42000 

60 REAJP#0%A2 > H% C A t * A 1 f 9 ) f H ( A * ) * H ( A * 1 ) * H (A*2)y H ( A * 3 ) * H ( A > 4 > *M< A? 53 

65 READtO >• hi ( A r6 ) * H ( A * 7 > i H ( A 9 8 ) * H C A * 9 > * H ( A * 1 ) * H < A * 1 1 ) \NEXT 

70 ! B " 

75 !*1 FOR LIST OF HORSES "\! H 2 FOR STATISTICS " \ !" 3 FOR RACE" 

20 TNPUT1 M TO END ? %A\!" " r FREE ( ) \IFA^0THEN9950\ IFA>3THFN70\ ! " n 

90 ZFA*lTHEN60SUS$Q00\iFA«2THEhH3O8UB«OQ0\X 

Listing 14 continued on next page 

April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 173 



Listing 14 continued: 



5000 

5o:i.o 
50:1.5 
5020 
5030 
5040 
6000 
6010 
6020 
6025 

6 h <) 
6050 
6060 
6070 
6080 
6085 
608? 
6088 
6089 
6091 
6094 
6095 
6096 
6099 
7000 
7001 
700? 

-004 
7010 
7020 
7022 
7025 
7027 
70 30 
7040 
704/ 
7043 
7050 

706 
7064 
7068 

707 
-■80 

" ? 9B2 
/' -9u 
7100 

/i io 

7120 
7122 
7125 

y\ 21 

75 27 

7.1.30 

7 I 4 
7150 



'1 R0 



7200 



i "IBl NAME R# 1 2 3 $ WON IB NAME R* 1 2 3 " y 

i H $ WON ■ \FC)RZ™:I 1 075\ ! " ~ " y \NE*T\ ! ■ " \Z5~INf ( 0/2 ) 

F R 1 ~ T G Z 5 \ F R Z 1 ~ T 1 \ Z 2 ~ Z \ } F Z 1 - ■ 1 T H E N Z 2 ~ Z 2 I Z 5 -f 1 

Z3« ( Z2f I ) * 1 0\ ! %2I y Z2 y " 

! H$CZ3-9yZ3> »%3IrH<22* 7.) ?M<Z2*8) yl-KZ2y9) rH<Z2rl0) y E*9F0 rH(Z2 * 1 1 ) * 

IFZ1-0THEN! H " y \NEXT\ ' " " \NEXT\ INPUT " READY TO RETURN ? n t Z$\RETURN 

1 NP1IT :t I D* > ■ ■ 03X04*= ( 03*1 ) -f 1 

| h$ ( 04 v 044 9 5 * M r QR04 -7TQ1 1 \ ! H (03 * 04} t \NEXT\ ! n " \ IFH (^3*7) ^OTHENRE Tl l*N 

[•DAY RACE T PURSE-- #H PIS TIME UGH P 8 H S F L % 

' n T XHE ODDS WINNER " \F0R04~1T079\ ! ' ~ " y \NEXT\ ! ■ " 

04 *H ( V3 ? 7 ) VOS«04- ( INT ( 04/10 >*10 ) \IF 05-0 THEN05™10\0 c: ; " 7*5 -1 

F R 6 ? V 5 T 5 - 9 S T E P - 1 \ U * 6 \ I F > 1 T H E N 6 7 

1 F 4 < 1 1 T H E N E X I T 6 9 9 \ - + 1 

0^20004 ( 03*572 ) * 72+ ( 0*50 ) 

READtf 0%0 y Z y Z 1 v Z2 y Z3 y Z4 * Z5 y Z6 y Z7 y 28 v Z9 

X 1 «« ( Z y ) \X2~ INT ( X 1 / 1 0000 ) \X 1 -XI ■••■ < i 0000*X2 ) \X3* INT ( X 1 / 1 00 ) \X4~X 1 - ( 1 00*X3 ) 

X5«8*X2\!%3I»Zr " H yR$(X5 - 7* ^ ,:: l » . %$8F0 t R ( Z t 1 ) > " - " y %2I y X4 y %3I y X3 > " F H f 

I ~R < Z y 2 ) \X3™ ( R ( Z * 3 >*10 • 4 1 

GG8UB9600\!%2 I yH. - •• ? ■ *%2IrT2> " . " t XI I v T y %4I y Zl y %3 1 y Z2 » 23 i Z4 y Z5 y Z6 y Z7 y 



T~28\GGSUB9600^ ! 721 r Tl y 



>I y 72 y%MI.IvJ 7 ' " » %6F2 y Z9 y 



I F X 3 + 7 > ( U * " ) * 1 T H E N 6 9 6 

! ■ "\NEXT 

RETURN 

IMY^S ARE 1-8TAKES 2-ALLGWANCE 3-CGNDITIGNED 4-MA1DEN H y 

! H 5-HANDICAP 6-WGRKGUT;* 

["DISTANCE- 6 TO 12 FURLONGS MAXIMUM HORSES i 12" 

I N P U T tf T Y P E y D I S f A N C F y H R 3 E 3 " P " y W m X 2 y X 3 

I F W < > 6 AN D X 3 < 4 T H E N 7 

I F X 2 :: 6 R X 2 > 1 2 R X 3 < 1 \<X3 > 1 2 T H E N 7 \ X 6 & 1 N T ( •:' X ? 4- 1)72) 

I F W < 1 R U > 6 T H E N700 \ 1 9 « \ 3 F W ;;;; 30 R W « 4 T H E Win S U B 8 2 

j f :i: v » i " i-i i: : : n ? o:so\ i N p i it * y e s f o r a u i o mat- r c s E l e c t * ? H * z $ 

IPZ$= " YES " THENG0SUBS200 

F 1 ■•■ X 4 - 1 T" X 3 \ I F 1 9 ^ 1 T H E N704 7 \ f " p f ) S T " p % 3 1 » X 4 y 

I WPU r ,! I D#? " y 1 \ I FWl <OORU t >UTi4EN7040\80T07048 

Ot«I C 1 yX4)\X5^( 10*01 >^1 \ ' "POST" y%31 yX4y " " y H* ( X5 i X5+ 9 ) 

A( X4y0.-^Ul\A(X4y J >«t20 

F0RX5^1T0X6\XP--M \ VI y X5 ) \F0RX7^1 T04 

M i X 4 f 75 - X7 ) - TNT t X8/F ( X7 ) > \X8- X3- ( H < X4 r X5 y X7 ) *F ( X7 ) ) 

I FM ( X 4 n \ '::;; , V/-- J > >H ( X4 y X5 y X7 ) THEMM ( X4 r X5 y X7 ) = 1 00 

X9«M ■ 5^4 '• X5 » X7 ) -M ( X4 » X5 m X7- 1 ) \G ( X4 ) »"0 ( X4 ) -f ( X9*X7 ) 

^FXT\0 ( X4 ) ^0 ( \4 ) + ( < 100 H « X4 y X5 ? 4 ) > *5 ) i( H C 01 *0>*1 00 ) VNFXT 

X 8 = \ F R X 7 » 1 f X 3 \ X 3 «? X j;5 4- ( X 7 ) \ N E X T 

Xtt* 1 NT ( C X B/ ( X2*4 ) ) * ( 6--W .< ^ « 025 ) \U 1 ^X8* 1 000 

K ( X <J > ■■■■■■■ X 4 " N E XT '•■ 1 F ' W :: ' : 2 R W ^ 5 T H E N G G S U B 9 4 \ G G SI 1 89300 

G 8 U B 8 0\X 4 ■ 6 N I i :: X 3 < 6 T l-l E N X 4 ~ X 3 \ X 5 * \ 1 1- : x 3 > 6 T l-l E N X 5 ==X 3 

I FZ!>:.:>" « THE NRE TURN 

X7 = 2+ ( :f 2*X2 ) \F r«RX8*-l TGX4\X9^X7f < C X8 ■■■■:!. ) * 1 44 ) \ IFX9>864THENX9^X9--864 

T $ ( X V 9 > ? > •■• N -M X 8 y X 8 ) \ L < X 8 ) : ~ X g \ N E X T 

X 7 ■■■ 3 t ( 1 7 * X 2 3 \ t :: R X 8 » 7 1 X 5 \ x 9 =s X 7 + ( ( X 8 - 1 > * 1 4 4 ) \ I F X 9 > 8 6 4 T l-l E N X 9 ■■■■■■ X 9 •- 8 6 4 

1 F X 9 > 8 6 4 1 H E N X 9 ::: X 9 - 8 A 4 

r* ( X 9 t X9 ) a N$ ( X8 ■• m ) \L < a8 ) -X9XNEXT 

j.. 0RX4- :! T0X3\ A ' vi v 2 > -2f ( 12*X2 ) \K ( X4 ) ^X4\NEXT\GG8UB9000 

F R » l ( p V 6 \ 1 ■■■■■ 1 \ I F < > X 6 T l-l E N 7 1 5 \ I F 2 * X 6 >. X 2 T H E N <J 1 « # 5 

F0RU2 ■ I T0X3\03»K < ^ j 2 >\V4«1N.T ( RND ( >*J00 ) \ V6^A (V3>0") 

'■■ ' J H U 5 a- ;[ T 4 \ I F M ( V 3 » y 5 ) > 4 T N E N E X I T 7 1 8 

NEXT \ 05* 5 

05=- 05-f 1 v-t H (l'6y0 ) \lFVa X6 THEN05«05*01\05^05-f ( ( 120 - A ( 03 y 1 ) ) /X6 ) 

A ( V3 y 2 ) ™ A ( <v'3 y 2 ) --V5\ Z9^A « 03 y 2 ) 

I i :: ' Z 9 > 1 T H E N 7 2 \ Z 9 ■■■■ 1 9 f 3 4 4 \ G T 7 :l 9 5 

A ( 3 y 3 ) is \ F t ) R 7 :: = : i 7' 7 S T E P 1 4 4 \ 8 « Z 9 -f 7 



Listing 14 continued on page 176 



174 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 





A comprehensive intro- 
duction to microproces- 
sor programming, using 
the 6502. From basic con- 
cepts to advanced data 
structures. Complete ex- 
planation of internal regis- 
ter and bus operation. 
The basic 6502 textbook. 



How to connect with the 
outside world and imple- 
ment practical applica- 
tions. Programs and cir- 
cuits are presented, from 
home control to industrial 
applications, including 
anc*og<igttai c&nverston. 
The I/O book for the 6SO£ 



From the ground upt the 
components (ROM, RAM, 
MPU, UART, PIO), their in- 
terconnect, applications, 
pragrarrmih& system de- 
velopment. Used by ed- 
ucational institutions world- 
wide. "The basic text on 
microprocessors." 







An educational text on 
advanced programming 
techniques. Includes pro- 
grams and hardware 
design for a variety of 
games, ranging from 
music to mastermind or 
tic-tac-toe. "Complex al- 
gorithms can be fun/' 



A comprehensive intro- 
ducion to programming 
the ZSO family From basic 
programming to Inter- 
rupts and time-sharing, 
including input-output 
techniques and common 
utility programs. A self- 
contained text. 



A comprehensive intro- 
duction to microproces- 
sor programming, using 
theZSO. From basic con- 
cepts to advanced data 
structures. Complete ex- 
planation of internal re- 
gister and bus operation. 
The basic 2BO textbook;' 



AVAILABLE AT BOOK AND COMPUTER STORES EVERYWHERE 

Circle 98 on inquiry card. 






$14.95 
ref.C207 

How to connect a micro- 
processor to the outside 
world. Includes the peri- 
pherals, from keyboard 
to CRT and floppy disk, 
as well as A/D conver- 
sion, standard buses 
(SlOO to IEEE 488) and 
basic troubleshooting. 



Dept I A3 

2344 Sixth Street 

Berkeley, Ca. 947! O 

TO ORDER: 

§y Phone: (415) 848-8233, Visa MC 
Americanlxpress 

•y Mail: Indicate quantify desired. Pre- 
payment required 

Shipping: Add S1.50 per book (UPS) or 
75$ (4th Cioss-aiiow 4 weeks delivery) 

Tax: in California please add tax. 



Please send me the following: 



Name 

Company 

Address 

City . Si 

Amount enciosecL_„ 
Charge my= u Visa 



^Sp„ 



Master Charge 
American Express 



Card number„„ 
Expiration date_ 

Signature 



„Date„ 



) Send me your detailed catalog 



Listing 14 continued: 



7 2 1 I F T $ c U8 ? <JM ) *: * * r i H F N E X I T 7 2 S " 

7220 1 F T$ ( V8 j- Vg ) - : ' : " 1 MENEXI T7250 

7230 I F ■ r$ < ^8 v ^8 ) * " I ■ l HENEx 1 T7250 

7240 A « U3 r 3 ' *A 1 t'3 * J ) - ♦ J \NEX T \Z9-Z9f 1 \ A ( U3 p 2 ) =A ( V3 f 2) - 1 \G0T07 J 95 

775o 1 $ ( M8 • VC ) kN« CU3 y V3 ) \E ( V2 ) - VSNNEXTV2 

7260 W«c>\f 0KV3« :l TQX3-1 \V4»K ( V3 ) \U5-K ( V3+1 ) \V6*A CU4 * 2) + A (M4 r 3) 

■ 7 2< C U 7 « A ' V 5 ? 2 > 4- A ( MS y 3 ) \ I ! :: " U 6 < « M 7 T M E N 7 2 9 

? 2 80 W2*1\K<V3>«V 5 \ K < U 3 -f 1 ) - V 4 

'290 N£X7\IFV2*iTHFN7260\G0SUB9W0 

/ 3 F R Z :- i T 3 \ ! " - \ N £ X T \ G 8 U B 9 5 "" ' 

7303 !Mt) MAMF, WJ P S H S F «.BY L HISS*F ODDS" 

'■;■' "*»,* v i:: j <i ** 

?3 1 FORZ- 1 T0X3X Zl-K ( Z ) \Z2* ( 1 +A ( Zl r ) > *10\IFZ*1 THENZ3«A<zI 7 2 > - * 75 

/320 Z4 - INT C A (Zl > 2) "73 ) \IFZOlTHEN7330\Z4-K ( 2 ) \Z4- TNT ( A ( Z4 y 2 ) Z3 > 

7330 !Z2IyA(Zl k)) y ■ " , H$ ( Z2---9 v Z2 ) y %4I » A ( Zl » 1 ) *%ZliZi t 

7340 !%3JyA(Z:l. >4) rACZlrS) yACZl ,6) vACZl t?) • ■ BY" ,%3IyZ4y 

734** A ( Zl y 8 ) ::-Z4\T^lNT ( A ( Zl f 2 > ■■■• * 75 ) 

/ 3 4 7 I F T < - 1 T M E N T - T f 1 4 4 \ X F T ■ : - :l T H E N?347\ T « T f ( 65* X2 ) - 4 8 

7 3 48 A ■ Z 1 9 V ) :- T \ ( I § U B 9 6 

7349 !-3#I,Tlf " * V^%?I-T2v - # % %1 J , ? , %9F2 * (Zl ) \Z1-A ( Zl , ) 

7350 II- ■ W ■:. .: 6THE NG08UB97 00\/t»K ( Z ) \0 (Zl ) «0\NEXT 

7351 LF6^TttEV?36Q\lFV?<2 . :l. THENM2-2 ♦ 1\IFM3<2 * 1THENU3«2 * 1 \G0SUR9900 

7352 trm<X*i rHFNU4-2* 1VIFV5<2. 1 THENU5-2 ♦ 1\IFV6<2 . 1THFNU6-2 . 1 
< *W "- ' "POST lj\N PLACE SHOW" 

: ' 3'.:.* 4 ! %4 j ' v K ( 1 > y %$9F2 ?VU V2 y U3 

?35« » X 41 ? K ( 2 > f ' " y %$9F2 r M4 y MS 

735 ?J ' %Al 9 K ( 3 ) f " ■ y %$9F2 y M6 

' 3 6 ! ■ M \ I N P U 7 " R E A D Y ^ SZ$\! ■ " \ R E T U R N 

7 900 z :.- o \ :i: f y » i r H e n z * 4 \ 1 1 ■* u i x 6 - 1 r h e n z « 6 \ I f u s 2 t n e n z « s 

7 ? 1 I F U :« X 6 T H E N Z a 7 \ j. F Z « () F H E N R E T U R N 

7920 FDRZl-l rOX3\£2*K ( Zl ) \A C Z2»Z) »'Z1\ZFV»2THENA (Z2 y 6 ) ^Z:i \NFXT\RFTURN 

•>V. J -... I a :» - * * * + « ♦ , ,. , , # , , .♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦**»♦♦♦♦* ♦ , # » , , # t , , # 4 + | # # # , , # # ## •« 

fcl 1 F R Z a 1 T 1 5 \ T % « T 3 $ f T ^!> \ N E X T 

8020 FfJtRZPlT0l33STEP12\T4*« - I " \ IFZ^1THENT4$^ " I " 

8 3 i : " Q R Z 1. « T D 7 2 B T E P 1 4 4 \ Z 2 « Z 1 + Z \ T $ ( Z 2 r Z 2 ) a T 4 $ \ N E X T \ N E X T 
8040 FORZ« 1 10 1 2\ A ( Z y 2 ) **Q\ A <Z?3) ~Q\MEXJ 

8100 ! - n MFW^^THFNU1^0NZ:==W*8\! " THIS IS A%X2y" FURLONG " f R* (7-7 j- 7 ) • 

BIOS '" RACE WITH A PURSE OF <1> h mU1 

8U0 !""\ I-POST NAME WGH ODDS R# 1ST 2ND 3RD EARNINGS' 

B 1 2 5 F R Z ■ 1 T X3\ Z 1 a A ( Z r ) -f 1 \ Z 2 * Z 1 -■ 1 

8130 Zl ^Zl*10\ \XAIwti B " ^H$(Zl-9yZl ) y%4IvA(Zy 1 ) y X$8F? r ( 7 ) v 

-;137 ( %4J.yH(Z2y7) yH(Z2y8) *H(Z2f9) yH(Z2y!0) , %$1 1F0 v H ( Z2 ? \ I ) 

8*34 NEXT\IFX3>30RW-6THEN8:I.40\' "»\» "TOO FEW HORSES ■ \7*= M K n \RFTURN 

e:, - 4 ° ' ""N INPUT "RETURN FOR RACE OR ANYTHING TO Kit J ? B fZ»\RETURN 

8200 IFMO3THENtt202\INPUT"MAX */RACE EARNED ? »yZ5 

8202 INPUT** ID START I ID END SEARCH ? " y A y B\ IFA>BTHFN8202 

8 2 3 I F A < T H E N 8 2 2 \ I F" B > U.T H E N 8 2 2 

8205 FQRZ«i70X3\I(0»Z)w~9999.99\I ( 1 f 'Z > : -0\NEXT\Z4^0\I9^3 

8210 FORZ-ATOB\IFH ( Z y 7 ) »0THEN62X5\Z1»H ( Z y 1 1 ) /\-\ ( Z f 7 ) \ TFW-5THFN7I -0-71 

t : J 2 J. ::. I F H ( Z y 8 ) > CAN D W a 4 f H E N 8 2 6 

3 2 1 7 I F Z I > Z 5 A N 3D W » 3 T H E N 8 260 

8 220 F R Z 2 ~ 1 T X 3 \ I F I ( * Z 2 ) > Z 1 T H E N 8 2 5 

8230 F0RZ3-X3 I 0Z2-M S TEP-1 \ I < , Z3 ) -I ( , Z3 -1 ) \I ( 1 yZ3)-T ( 1 ,Z3-1 )\NFXT 

8240 Z4 a 24*f 1 \ T ( y Z2 > -Zl \I ( 1 v Z2 ) -ZXEXT T8260 

8250 NEXT 

8 2 6 mX7\ i: F Z 4 < X 3 T H E MX3 * Z4\R E T URN 

9000 F0RZ-1T011\! " "\NEXT 

9 1 F R Z * 5 T -• 3 8 T E P -• 1 \ Z 1 * Z* 1 44N I F Z > -- 2 T H E N 9 8 
900::> XFZ»-2TKEN ! " % T2$ (1 y 2 ) y 

9 4 I F Z » - 3 f H E N ! « " i T 2 f Cl.r4)AG T 9009 

9008 I " 



176 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



9 9 F R 2 2 * 4 3 T 4 7 S T E P 2 

901.0 Z3"21+Z2+ < 144* < ( 49-22 >/2 ) ) \IFZ3>864THEN9020 

9015 IFZ3<1 THEN9020N ' T$ < Z3 y Z3+ 1 ) » VGOT09030 

9020 ! " 

9030 N E X t \ I F Z > 1 T H E N ! T f ( Z 1 + 4 9 r 2 1 + 1 02 ) * \ I F Z < T H E N ! T 1 $ y 

9032 I F Z ■•''■■ - 2 T H E N ' " % \ I F 2 * •■•• 3 T H E N ' " " y 

9 3 8 F R 7 2 = 1 7 T 1 3 3 T E P - 2 

9040 73^ 7 J. -f 22+ < 144* < ( 109-Z2 ) /2 > )\IFZ3>8640RZ3<17HEN9050\ ! T$ ( Z3 p Z3 + 1 ) p 

9 5 N E X T \ I F Z * -• 2 T H E N ! T 2$ i i r 2 ) f \ I F Z - 3 T I -I E N ! T 2 $ < 1 y 4 ) * \ ! " M \ N E X T 

9 6 F R Z « 4 2 T 3 7 S TE P ■- :l. \ F R Z 1 « 7201 S 7 E P - 1 4 4 \ Z 2 « Z + Z 1 \ ! T $ ( Z 2 > Z 2 ) p \ N E X T 

9062 Z4«43-Z\ IFZ4>X3THFN9070\Z4^K ( Z4 ) \Z5=A ( Z4 y ) 

9064 Z6^ ( Z5+1 ) *1.0\ ! TAB (20) > H$ ( Z6--9 vZ6) y H ( # " i %2I p Z4 i " ) " y 

9066 Z4«49^Z\IFZ4>X3THEN90?0\Z4«K ( Z4 ) \Z5~A C Z4 p ) 

9068 Z6-CZS+J >*10\ ! TAB (40) yH$(Z6-9y76> y " ( * tt y£2IyZ4y " ) " r 

9070 ITABC72)f\F0RZl»OTO*2^ " "NNEXT 

9 1 F R Z » - 3 T 5 \ Z 1 :::: Z * 1 4 4 \ I F Z > 2 T N E N 9 :l. 8 

9 :L 2 I F Z ■ - 2 T H E N ! " " * T 2 $ (- .1 » 2 > i 

9 J. 4 I F Z ~ - 3 T H E N ! " ,! p f 2 M 1 y 4 ) y \ G T 9 1 9 

9108 ! H " y 

9 1 9 F R Z 2 ■■■••■■ 3 6 T 3 2 3 T E ! :: ' - 2 

9 :i :l. Z 3 w 7 1 + Z 2 + ( 1 4 4 * ( ( Z 2 ■■ ■■ 3 ) / 2 ) ) \ I F 2 3 > 3 6 4 T H E N 9 1 2 

9115 IFZ3<2THEN9I<*0\ ! T*'<Z3rZ3> r T$ (Z3-1 y Z3--1 ) y \G0T09130 

91 •;;><;. i .»- -» F 

9 1 3 N 1 1 X 1 *, T F 7 < T N E N 9 1 5 \ F R Z 2 « 3 T 1 8 T E P - 1 \ Z 3 a Z 2 + Z 1 \ ! T * ( Z 3 y Z 3 ) p \ N E X T 

9 J. 4 F R Z 2 ■■■■•'■ 1 4 4 T 1 2 1 S T E P •-■ 1 \ Z 3 « Z 2 ■* ■ Z 1 \ ! T * ( Z 3 $ Z 3 ) p \ N E X T 

9 1 5 1 F > Z T H E N ! T 1 $ » \ I F Z « •••• 2 T H E N ! tt " f \ I F Z * -• 3 T l-I E N ! ■ u a 

9 1 6 F R Z 2 * 1 2 T 1 1 6 S T E P - 2 \ Z 3 « Z :L f Z 2 i ( :l. 4 4 * ( ( 1 2 2 - Z 2 > / 2 ) ) 
9 1 7 I F Z 3 > 3 6 4 R 2 > Z 3 T l-I E N 9 1 3 \ ! T $ < Z 3 » Z 3 ) y T $ ( Z 3 - 1 r 23 - 1 ) p 

9130 NEXT\IF2«" 2THEN ! T2$ ( 1 y 2) y \IFZ™ 3THEN ! T2$ ( 1 y 4 ) p 

9190 IFZOSTHEN! " "\NEXT 

9195 l : R 1 2 « 1 I X 3 \ Z 3 a L ( Z 2 ) \ T $ ( Z 3 » Z 3 ) « " * " \ N E X T \ R E T U R N 

9300 1FU^6THEN9350 

9 3 5 7 ■■■■■■ 9 9 9 9 9 \ F R 7 1 « 1 T X 3 \ 1 F CJ ( 1 1 ) < Z T H E N Z * ( Z 1 ) \ N E X T 

93107 2 * \ 7 * 2* 2 \ F U R 7 1 « 1 T X 3 \ ( Z 1 ) w < Z 1 ) - Z \ I F ( Z 1 ) < 2 T l-I E NG(Z1) ~ 2 

V330 Z2*Z2+0 ( Zl ) \'NEXf\Z-2*Z2*l * 70\F0RZ1-1TGX3\G ( Zl > ^INT ( ( Z2/0 ( Zl ) ) ^2 ♦ 5 ) 

S 340 P ill) a ( ( Z 1 ) /5 ) • 1 \ I F0 ( Z 1) < . 20THENG ( Zl) ^ * 2\NEXT\RETURN 

9350 F R Z J. ;:; 1 T X 3 \ ( Z 1 ) » \ N E X T \ R E T U R N 

9 4 Z 2 =« \ F R 7 1 « 1 T X 3 \ 7 2 « 7 2 i ( Z 1 ) \ N E X T \ Z 2 «= Z 2 / X 3 

9^ 20 F0R7 1 =:■: 1 T X 3 \ 7 3 ■■■ If T (((0(71) -72 ) / 1 00 ) + . 5 ) A :CFW^2THENZ3- INT ( 23* * 5 ) 

9430 I F Z 3 < - 1 T H E N Z 3 * - 1 \ I i :: ' 7 3 > 1 T l-I E HZ3 m 1 \ ( Z 1 ) - ( Z :L ) - ( 1 * Z 3 ) 

9440 A I 7. 1 y 1 ) * 1 2 f • Z 3 \ N E X T \ R 1 'I U ! : ^ N 

9500 07::::K ( 1 ) \U1^0 ( KJ7 ) 1 2 f 2 \ 2 :» ( ^7 ) 4-2\f 3-0 ( V7 ) * * 66 + 2\V3™INT ( ( M3*20 ) 720 ) 

951 ^3-03* * 20X07- K ( 2 ) \V4«0 ( 07 ) +2\05^G ( 07 ) # ♦ 66 + 2\U5-INT ( < ^5*20 ) 720 ) 

9520 05-05* . 2W7-K ( 3 ) \06-G ( 07 ) * * 66+2X06-INT C ( 06>K20 ) 720 ) W6--V6* ♦ 2 

9530 3 ■■■■ 3 f • 2 \ 5 ^ 5 + 2 \ U 6 «" 06 + 2 \ R E T U R N 

9600 T 1 ^ I N T < T / 3 ) \ T « T ™ < 3 * T 1 ) \ T 2 - 1 N T ( T 7 5 ) \ T * T - ( 5 X T 2 ) \ R E T U R N 

V 6 1 7 1 « I NT < T / 300 ) \ T ::: ■ • (300* T 1 > \ T 2 a :i: N T ( I 7 5 ) \ T « T ( 5 * T 2 ) \ R E 'I' U R N 

9700 T 3«H ( Z 1 y 7 ) + 1\H ( 2 1 p 7 ) -T3 \ I FZ>3THEN9710\H ( Zl » 7+Z ) -H ( Z 1 y 7 + Z ) f 1 

9 7 1 I F Z > 4 T hi E N 9 8 \ l-I ( Z 1 y 1 1 ) » H ( Z 1 y 1 1 ) + ( P ( Z ) * U 1 ) 

9800 T4-T3 ■ ( INT ( T3/10 )#10)\ :i:FT4-0THENT4-10\T4-T4-l 

9310 T5-2000+ ( 572*71 ) +72+ ( T4*50 ) \Z1^K < Z ) \Q^Z 

9320WR1 TE#0%T5 p Y p A ( Zl p 1 ) p Zl p A I Z:l p 4 ) p A ( 71 p 5 ) y A < Zl y 6 ) y A ( Zl y 7 ) y NGENDMARK 

9325 WRITE#0%T5+35y A(Z1 »8) yACZt y9) yG(Zl ) p NGENDMARKXRETURN 

9900 R ( V 9 ) a ( g* x 0000 ) + ( X2* 1. 00 ) + X 3 \R ( Y 9 1 ) -U ;|. \ T4»K ( 1 > \R ( Y p 2 ) »= A < T4 ? 9 ) 

9 9 1 T 4 «= K ( 1 ) \ R ( Y y 3 ) « A ( T 4 y > \ Y :::: Y f 1 \ R E T U R N 

9930 C L 3 E ; li : \ ! :: ' E N # y M * 

9960 F i 0«A«0T099\WR I TE*0 y R ( A y ) y R ( A p 1 ) f R < A y 2 ) p R ( A p 3 ) 

*? 9 7 J F R ( A y ) ~ T !• I E N E X I T 9 9 8 \ N E X T 

9980 FQRA*0TdU\Al« ( 572*A ) +2000+47 

9990 WR:i:TEII0%A1 pH( Ay 7) yll( Ay 8) pH(A*9) yH( Ay 10) rH< Ay 11 ) p NGENDMARKXNEXT 

9995 GL0SE#0\ END 

READY 



April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 177 










Sc ^B, 



Pu bii 



ic «*ion s 



Amateur 
Radio 



Let your computer talk to another machine in Tokyo, 
London or Sri Lanka! Finally, this is a reality through 
Amateur Radio. ASCII transmissions by amateurs have 
just been approved by FCC. Now it's possible to link 
up your computer over the airwaves! Swap programs 
with an engineer in Paris, exchange data with an ama- 
teur at the South Pole. Your computer may even help 
coordinate relief efforts to an earthquake-stricken for- 
eign country. Experience the thrill of this new dimen- 
sion to computing. Get with 'Amateur Radio," today ! 
Only $6.95 No. 94 



Introduction to 

Low Resolution Graphics 

Now you can produce amazing computer graphics — 
even if you can't draw a straight line. Literally! Learn 
how to draw lines and shapes, make graphs, draw 
pictures and even do animations. The simple secrets 
of how to do at I this are contained in this new book 
by Nat Wadsworth. You'll be able to produce a deck 
of playing cards ... a clown that winks ... a foot- 
ball grid . . . and an animated football game. Also 
tells how to synchronize computer-generated sounds 
to your illustrations. 

Just $9.95 No. 65 




Understanding Microcomputers 

Accepted as the standard! 300 page 
easy reading text. Explains exactly how 
a microprocessor works. Intro to pro- 
gramming in BASIC. Complete glossary. 
Just $9.95 No. 90 



Microcomputer Potpourri 

A pocket-size reference for the begin- 
ner and pro alike. Full digest on under- 
standing microcomputers. Data and dia- 
grams on all the popular chips. Glossary. 
Only $2.95 No. 70 



Learn Micro-Computers 

A new multi-media information package 
for the beginner. You get Understanding 
Microcomputers book plus high-quality 
cassette. Great for self-study. 
Just $14.95 No. 40 



UNDERSTANDING 
MICROCOMPUTERS 



MICRO 
COMPUTER 





POTPOURRI 




178 BYTE April 1980 



*& 



'tf 0) S 



4^9E 



^"^fe^ 









ic» 



'"*»*, 



*"o». 



Calculating with 
BASIC 

Use your computer to calculate home mortgage pay- 
ments, interest rates, payback periods and more! 
Shows how to apply the BASIC language to practi- 
cal problems and equations. Covers the fields of 
mathematics, finance and statistics, mechanical 
engineering and electronics. For fun, the games 
of Hangman and Space Capture are provided. Written 
by Raymond Guido. Ideal for the businessman, 
scientist, engineer or student. Complete routines 
are worked out and ready for you to use. 
Just $7.95 No. 30 



Z80, 8080, 6800 & 6502 
Software Cookbooks 

There's one for each of these popular microprocessors. 
With the right SCELBI Gourmet Guide and Cook- 
book, you'll be able to put together programs without 
having to start from scratch. You'll have the most 
useful routines at your command — already program- 
med and ready-to-use. Search and sort routines. Many 
general purpose utility routines. I/O and interrupt 
programming. How to control and manipulate stacks. 
Code and numeric conversion routines. Plus more! 
For 6502, No. 99, $10.95; for 6800, No. 50, $10.95 
for 8080, No. 60, $10.95; for Z80, No. 75, $14.95 



Z80 Instruction Handbook 

Convenient pocket size guide to the 
powerful Z80 instruction set. Machine 
codes presented in octal and hex format. 
Instructions also indexed alphabetically. 
Only $4.95 No. 20 



Z80 

Instruction 

Handbook 



Free catalog 

10 pages of 
books for 
business or 
pleasure. 
No. AA 



See SCELBI books at your favorite computer or 
electronics store, or use coupon for direct mail. 

§■■ SCELBI Publications 

IH0 20 Hurlbut Street, Elmwood, CT 061 1 

IMPORTANT ORDERING INFO! Include $1.00 ship- 
ping/handling charges for each item. Prices shown are for 
North American customers. Master Charge, VISA, Postal 
and Bank Money Orders preferred. Allow 4 weeks for 
delivery. 

□ No. 94 □ No. 20 □ No. 30 □ No. 40 
DNo. 50 DNo. 60 DNo. 65 DNo. 70 

□ No. 75 DNo. 90 UNO. 99 □ No. AA 

Name (please print) 

Card No. 

Bank No. Exp. Date 

Address _____^_^_^_— -_-____— 

City/State 

Signature ^^______ 



Zip 



. Date . 



Circle 99 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 179 



Text continued from page 94: 

in a real-time microcomputer music 
system. 

As before, we solve our problem 
by using a sequence of waveform 
tables to approximate the desired 
timbre envelope. In effect, we divide 
the time axis of the graph in figure 7b 
into a number of short intervals and 
compute a waveform table based on 
the average amplitude of each har- 
monic during the interval. If the 
waveform tables are used in sequence 
properly, the envelope sampling need 
not be uniform; sampling can be 
dense (closely spaced) during the at- 
tack and decay when harmonic 
amplitudes are changing rapidly, and 
sparse in between when things are 
fairly static. 

Note that a single sequence of 
waveform tables implements both the 
overall amplitude envelope and the 
timbre envelope for a given instru- 
ment simulation. In fact, for lack of a 
better name, we will call a specific 
sequence of waveform tables an in- 
strument and the specifications for 
computing them an instrument 
specification. 

In actually setting up a waveform- 
sequencing routine, it is convenient to 
use a waveform-sequence table. This 
table is simply a list of numbers 
(typically with 256 entries), where 
each number corresponds to a wave- 
form table (and is typically the page 
address of the table). While notes are 
being played, a waveform-sequence 
pointer moves at a uniform speed 
(about 100 increments per second) 
through the sequence table. Non- 
uniform sampling of the harmonic 
envelopes (dense or sparse at different 
times) is accomplished by varying the 
number of duplicate entries in the se- 
quence table. It is even possible to 
define several different instruments 
using the same set of waveform tables 
simply by making a different se- 
quence table for each instrument. 
One sequence, for example, could be 
simply the reverse of another. 

Do not underestimate the impor- 
tance or power of this additive-syn- 
thesis technique in producing realistic 
instrument sounds and interesting 
music. The graphs of figure 8 show 
some typical instrument characteris- 
tics. When these characteristics are 
incorporated into the software system 
to be described shortly, the instru- 
ments really sound plucked (figures 
8a and 8b), struck (figure 8c), bowed 




180 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



(figure 8d), or blown (figure 8e). 

The value of performing with a 
computer, however, lies in the 
concoction of new instruments such 
as those shown in figures 9 and 10. 

The system I shall describe is suffi- 
ciently general and has sufficient cor- 
respondence between specifications 
and the actual sound produced that 
experimentation is encouraged. There 
is really nothing sacred about the 
sound of traditional instruments; 
they were mostly developed by trial 
and error, anyway. The real future of 
music lies in exploring the entire 
range of perceivable timbres, as well 
as in writing appropriate scores for 
various timbre groups. 




Description of Music Software 

In the remainder of this article, a 
music-playing program based on 
these principles will be described. The 
software is just a music interpreter 
that looks at compactly encoded 
music data in memory and carries out 
the specified tone-producing opera- 
tions. In a complete music system, it 
is necessary to also have a music 
'compiler" that accepts a user- 
oriented "music language" and 
translates it into the format required 
by this interpreter. 

Coding examples will be for the 
6502 microprocessor. The maximum 
number of simultaneous voices is an 
arbitrary parameter that can be trad- 




TIME * 

Figure 8: Amplitude envelopes for harmonics present in notes produced by various 
types of instruments. (8a) First type of plucked-string instrument, a banjo, or a violin 
played pizzicato. (8b) Second type of plucked-string instrument, such as a lute or harp- 
sichord. (8c) Struck-string instrument, such as a piano , in this case for the octave just 
below middle C at 261.6 Hz. (8d) Bowed-string instrument, such as a cello; for further 
data on this type, see reference 4. (8e) Blown reed or woodwind instrument, such as a 
clarinet; for further data on this type, see reference 5. 



ed off against sample rate to the D/A 
converter. Using a clock frequency of 
1 MHz on the 6502 processor, up to 
four voices are possible with an 8 kHz 
sample rate. 

Basic Waveform-Scanning Code 

The core of the program is the 
sound-generation routine that scans 
the waveform tables. I shall describe 
this routine, which is given in listing 
4, first in its use with fixed waveform 
tables, that is, using rectangular 
envelopes. Then a description of an 
enhancement of it for waveform se- 
quencing will follow. 

Before the waveform-scanning 
routine, SOUND, is called, ten 
parameters are established in memory 
by the calling routine. Four of these, 
the waveform-table pointers for each 
voice, are named WAVPTl thru 
WAVPT4. The byte at WAVFTi + 2 
is the page number of the waveform 
table to be used for voice i. Four addi- 
tional parameters, WAVINl thru 
WAVIN4, are the increments for the 
four waveform-table pointers. These 
pointer increments define the fre- 
quency for each of the four tones. 

The last two parameters (TEMPO 
and DUR) are multiplied together to 
determine the duration, in sample 
periods, of sound generation before 
returning to the calling routine. DUR 
is normally used to specify the rela- 
tive duration of the event while TEM- 
PO specifies the overall speed of the 
event sequence. All of these parame- 
ters are kept in page of memory for 
maximum speed of access. 

In operation, the music-code inter- 
preter sets up these ten parameters 
and calls SOUND for each musical 
event in the piece. An event is defined 
as the time between changes in the 
sound and is usually the duration of 
the shortest notes in a passage or 
chord. Since sound generation stops 
while the interpreter is setting up the 
next event, it is important that the 
interpreter be an efficient machine- 
language program was well. 

Peering more deeply into the 
SOUND routine, we see that the 
value from location TEMPO is kept 
in the X register, DUR (the duration 
value) is left in memory, and the Y 
register is zeroed. In the 6502, the 
value of the Y register is added to in- 
direct addresses, so "normal" 
indirect-address operation requires 
that Y contain 0. 



April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 181 



We can see that during the loop 
starting at SOUND2 in listing 4, each 
of the pointer increments (WAVINl, 
etc) is double-precision added to the 
corresponding waveform-table 
pointers (WAVPTl, etc). These are 
the integer and fractional parts of the 
pointers and increments. To save 
time, the initial state of the carry flag 
is ignored when the fractional parts 
are added together. (The state of the 
6502 carry flag is always considered 
in an add instruction.) 

The interesting part of the 
SOUND2 loop is the section which 
outputs samples that have been 
fetched from the waveform tables. In 



the top part of the loop, samples for 
voices 1 and 2 are averaged together 
and sent to one D/A converter while, 
later on, voices 3 and 4 are sent to an- 
other D/A converter. This stereo 
feature can be quite effective. 

For monophonic output, the two 
D/A-converter addresses are simply 
made the same. Such action is actual- 
ly an example of time-division 
multiplexing, another method of mix- 
ing simultaneous tones through a 
single D/A converter. The mixing ac- 
tually takes place in the filter, due to 
its "hangover" effect between 
A-channel and B-channel samples in 
monophonic use. 



Listing 4: The basic waveform-scanning code for the 6502 microprocessor. This is the 
original version, which does not contain provision for sequencing through multiple 
waveform tables. 



0200 
0202 
0204 
0205 
0207 
0209 
020A 
020D 
020F 
0211 
0213 
0215 
0217 
0219 
021B 
021D 
021F 
0221 
0223 
0225 
0226 
0228 
022A 
022B 
022E 
0230 
0232 
0234 
0236 
0238 
023A 
023C 
023E 
0240 
0242 
0244 
0246 
0247 
0249 
024B 
024D 
024E 
024F 
0250 
0253 

FE00 
FE02 
0000 
0001 
0002 
0005 
0008 
000 B 
00OE 
0010 
0012 
0014 



A000 

A600 

18 

B103 

7106 

6A 

8D0OFE 

A502 

650E 

8502 

A503 

650F 

8503 

A505 

6510 

8505 

A506 

6511 

8506 

18 

B109 

710C 

6A 

8D02FE 

A508 

6512 

8508 

A509 

6513 

8509 

A50B 

6514 

850B 

A50C 

6515 

850C 

CA 

D005 

C601 

D0B5 

60 

EA 

EA 

4C5302 

4C0402 



00 

00 

000000 

000000 

000000 

000000 

0000 

0000 

0000 

0000 



SOUND: 
SOUND 1 : 
S0UND2 : 



S0UND3 : 



DACA 
DACB 
TEMPO: 
DUR: 
WAVPTl : 
WAVPT2 : 
WAVPT3 : 
WAVPT4 : 
WAVINl : 
WAVIN2 : 
WAVIN3 : 
WAVIN4 : 



LDY 

LDX 

CLC 

LDA 

ADC 

RORA 

STA 

LDA 

ADC 

STA 

LDA 

ADC 

STA 

LDA 

ADC 

STA 

LDA 

ADC 

STA 

CLC 

LDA 

ADC 

RORA 

STA 

LDA 

ADC 

STA 

LDA 

ADC 

STA 

LDA 

ADC 

STA 

LDA 

ADC 

STA 

DEX 

BNE 

DEC 

BNE 

RTS 

NOP 

NOP 

JMP 

JMP 



.BYTE 
.BYTE 
.BYTE 
.BYTE 
.BYTE 
.BYTE 
.BYTE 
.BYTE 
.BYTE 
.BYTE 



#0 
TEMPO 

(WAVPT1+I),Y 
(WAVPT2+1 ) ,Y 

DACA 
WAVPTl 

WAVINl 

WAVPTl 

WAVPTl +1 

WAVINl +1 

WAVPTl +1 

WAVPT2 

WAVIN2 

WAVPT2 

WAVPT2+1 

WAVIN2+1 

WAVPT2+1 

(WAVPT3+1),Y 
(WAVPT4+1),Y 

DACB 

WAVPT3 

WAVIN3 

WAVPT3 

WAVPT3+1 

WAVIN3+1 

WAVPT3+1 

WAVPT4 

WAVIN4 

WAVPT4 

WAVPT4+1 

WAVIN4+1 

WAVPT4+1 

S0UND3 
DUR 

SOUND 1 



.+3 
S0UND2 

X'FEOO 

X'FE02 





0,0,0 

0,0,0 

0,0,0 

0,0,0 

0,0 

0,0 

0,0 

0,0 



Y IS ALWAYS ZERO FOR STRAIGHT INDIRECT 
KEEP TEMPO COUNTER IN X 
ADD FIRST TWO VOICES 

AND SEND TO FIRST DAC 

**** START FIRST TIME DIVISON MULTIPLEX 
UPDATE WAVEFORM POINTER FOR VOICE 1 
FRACTIONAL PART 



INTEGER PART 



UPDATE WAVEFORM POINTER FOR VOICE 2 
FRACTIONAL PART 



INTEGER PART 

ADD SECOND TWO VOICES 

AND SEND TO SECOND DAC 

**** START SECOND TIME DIVISON MUTIPLEX 
UPDATE WAVEFORM POINTER FOR VOICE 3 
FRACTIONAL PART 



INTEGER PART 



UPDATE WAVEFORM POINTER FOR VOICE 4 
FRACTIONAL PART 



INTEGER PART 

DECREMENT TEMPO COUNTER 

GO TO TIME WASTE IF NOTHING SPECIAL 

DECREMENT DURATION COUNTER 

CONTINUE IF NOT TIMED OUT 

END OF EVENT, RETURN TO CALLER 

WASTE 10 CLOCKS INCLUDING JUMP TO S0UND2 



LEFT CHANNEL DAC (MAKE DACA=DACB FOR MONO) 

RIGHT CHANNEL DAC 

TEMPO ARGUMENT FROM CALLER 

DURATION ARGUMENT FROM CALLER 

VOICE 1 WAVE TABLE POINTER FRAC, INT, WAVE 

VOICE 2 



VOICE 
VOICE 
VOICE 
VOICE 
VOICE 
VOICE 



POINTER INCREMENT FRAC, INT 



Time-division multiplexing has the 
advantage of providing the equiv- 
alent of a 9-bit D/A converter and the 
disadvantage of requiring a better 
filter on the D/A converter. The re- 
arrangement of processing tasks in 
the main loop is necessary so that the 
durations of the dwell time of 
A-channel and B-channel samples are 
approximately equal. Inequality in 
these durations leads to a volume in- 
balance when set up for monophonic 
output. 

At the bottom of the SOUND2 
loop, register X, which contains the 
TEMPO parameter, is decremented. 
If X becomes 0, it is reloaded from 
TEMPO and DUR is decremented 
directly in memory. If DUR also 
becomes 0, the sound event is over 
and the subroutine exits by a return. 
Otherwise, the sound-generating loop 
is executed again. The total number 
of loops through SOUND2 then is 
simply the product of the tempo and 
duration values TEMPO and DUR. 

No-operation (NOP) instructions 
have been added to make the loop 
time constant, regardless of whether 
or not the X register times out by 
hitting 0. Experiments indicate that 
small, infrequent perturbations in 
sample rate are generally not no- 
ticed, so these NOP instructions 
could be omitted to give an increase 
in average sample rate. The entire 
loop (with equalizer instructions) re- 
quires 123 fis, which gives a sample 
rate of 8.13 kHz. 

Additions for Waveform 
Sequencing 

Listing 5 shows this same 
waveform-scanning routine modified 
for waveform-table sequencing. Four 
more parameters have been added. 
These additional parameters are set 
up by the calling routine, and are 
called SEQPT1, SEQPT2, SEQPT3, 
and SEQPT4. These are simply four 
pointers into the waveform-sequence 
tables for the four voices. Each 
pointer is a 2-byte memory address in 
which the upper byte (the page 
address of the sequence table) is nor- 
mally constant and the lower byte is 
the pointer that scans through the 
sequence table. 

The additional code for waveform- 
table sequencing is split into two sec- 
tions. The first section of code 
accesses the four waveform-sequence 
tables and stores the data found into 
the page address parts of the 



182 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 




MAY 1979 

Dog Star Adventure 



DECEMBER 1978 

Santa Paravia and Fiumaccio 



NOVEMBER 1979 

Isolate 



AUGUST 1979 

Melt Down 



JANUARY 1979 

Round the Horn 



FEBRUARY 1980 

Deadstick 



MARCH 1980 

Broadway 




ojceceuaiMLic^iMiiaaKUCQ: 

ftlfa® W?S1^ ^®GQ ^MrtJLlft 



an 



o o o 






$25., 12 issues, First Class; 
$15., 12 issues, Bulk Rate; $22., 12 issues, First Class; 



SoftSide: S-80* Edition ....12 issues, $18., Bulk Rate; 
$39.50., 6 issues with cassette; $69., 6 issues with diskette. 

SoftSide: Apple* Edition . 

$69. 6 issues with diskettes. 

PROG/811... Every other month, for serious programmers... 

Programming Methods, Utility Programs, Timesharing Section, Reviews, Hardware 

Projects, $15. 6 issues, Bulk Rate, $21. 6 issues, First Class. 

USE YOUR MASTERCHARGE OR VISA AND CALL TOLL-FREE 1-800-258-1790 (In nh call 673-5144) 
SoftSide Publications, P.O. Box 68, Milford, NH 03055 



Circle 100 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 183 



waveform-table pointers (WAVPTl, 
etc). The second section of code in- 
crements the lower parts (byte 
addresses) of the sequence-table 
pointers (SEQPTl, etc). Both sections 
need to be executed only when index 
register X (which is initialized with 
the TEMPO parameter) underflows 
and is reinitialized; this typically 
occurs every 75 to 150 sample 
periods. On other passes through the 
waveform-scanning loop, time- 
wasting instructions of equivalent 
duration would need to be executed. 
In the actual code of listing 5, we 



see that the sequence-table lookup in- 
structions have been placed at the 
beginning of the loop at SOUND1; 
thus these instructions are guaranteed 
to be executed first thing when the 
routine is entered. This is necessary in 
case the calling routine has changed 
one of the sequence-table pointers, to 
assign a different instrument to a 
voice. 

SOUND2 begins the waveform- 
table-lookup instructions, which are 
the same as before. At SOUND3, 
TEMPO (in index-register X) and the 
duration value DUR are decre- 



Listing 5: The advanced waveform-scanning code for the 6502. This version does con- 
tain provision for sequencing through multiple waveform tables. The code shown here 
was developed by Frank Covitz and Cliff Ashcraft. 



0200 
0202 
0204 
0206 
02G8 
020A 
020C 
020E 
0210 
0212 
0214 
0215 
0217 
0219 
021A 
021D 
021F 
0221 
0223 
0225 
0227 
0229 
022B 
022D 
022F 
0231 
0233 
0235 
0236 
0238 
023A 
023B 
023E 
0240 
0242 
0244 
0246 
0248 
024A 
024C 
024E 
0250 
0252 
0254 
0256 
0257 
0259 
025B 
025D 
025F 
0261 
0263 
0265 
0267 
026A 



A000 

A600 

Bl 16 

8504 

B118 

8507 

B11A 

850A 

B11C 

850D 

18 

B103 

7106 

6A 

8D00FE 

A502 

650E 

8502 

A503 

650F 

8503 

A505 

6510 

8505 

A506 

6511 

8506 

18 

B109 

710C 

6A 

8D02FE 

A508 

6512 

8508 

A509 

6513 

8509 

A50B 

6514 

850B 

A50C 

6515 

850C 

CA 

D0AB 

C601 

FOOD 

E616 

E618 

E61A 

E61C 

A600 

4C1402 

60 



SOUND : 
S0UND1: 



0016 0000 
0018 0000 
001 A 0000 
00 1C 0000 



S0UND4 : 



S0UND5 : 

SEQPTl : 
SEQPT2: 
SEQPT3 : 
SEQPT4 : 



LDY 

LDX 

LDA 

STA 

LDA 

STA 

LDA 

STA 

LDA 

STA 

CLC 

LDA 

ADC 

RORA 

STA 

LDA 

ADG 

STA 

LDA 

ADC 

STA 

LDA 

ADC 

STA 

LDA 

ADC 

STA 

CLC 

LDA 

ADC 

RORA 

STA 

LDA 

ADC 

STA 

LDA 

ADC 

STA 

LDA 

ADC 

STA 

LDA 

ADC 

STA 

DEX 

BNE 

DEC 

BEQ 

INC 

INC 

INC 

INC 

LDX 

JMP 

RTS 



#0 

TEMPO 

( SEQPTl ),Y 

WAVPT1+2 

(SEQPT2),Y 

WAVPT2+2 

(SEQPT3),Y 

WAVPT3+2 

(SEQPT4),Y 

WAVPT4+2 

(WAVPT1+1),Y 
(WAVPT2+1),Y 

DACA 

WAVPT1 

WAVIN1 

WAVPT1 

WAVPT1+1 

WAVIN1+1 

WAVPTl +1 

WAVPT2 

WAVIN2 

WAVPT2 

WAVPT2+1 

WAVIN2+1 

WAVPT2+1 

(WAVPT3+1),Y 
(WAVPT4+1),Y 

DACB 

WAVPT3 

WAVIN3 

WAVPT3 

WAVPT3+1 

WAVIN3+1 

WAVPT3+1 

WAVPT4 

WAVIN4 

WAVPT4 

WAVPT4+1 

WAVIN4+1 

WAVPT4+1 

SOUND 1 

DUR 

SOUNDS 

SEQPTl 

SEQPT2 

SEQPT3 

SEQPT4 

TEMPO 

SOUND2 



Y IS ALWAYS ZERO FOR STRAIGHT INDIRECT 

KEEP TEMPO COUNTER IN X 

LOOKUP WAVEFORM PAGE NUMBER FOR VOICE 1 

IN WAVEFORM SEQUENCE TABLE 

VOICE 2 

VOICE 3 



ADD FIRST TWO VOICES 



AND SEND TO FIRST DAC 



START FIRST TIME DIVISON MULTIPLEX 
UPDATE WAVEFORM POINTER FOR VOICE 1 
FRACTIONAL PART 



INTEGER PART 



UPDATE WAVEFORM POINTER FOR VOICE 
FRACTIONAL PART 



INTEGER PART 



ADD SECOND TWO VOICES 



AND SEND TO SECOND DAC 



.BYTE 0,0 

.BYTE 0,0 

.BYTE 0,0 

.BYTE 0,0 



**** START SECOND TIME DIVISON MUTIPLEX 
UPDATE WAVEFORM POINTER FOR VOICE 3 
FRACTIONAL PART 



; INTEGER PART 

; UPDATE WAVEFORM POINTER FOR VOICE 4 
: FRACTIONAL PART 



INTEGER PART 

DECREMENT TEMPO COUNTER 

REPEAT IF NOTHING SPECIAL 

DECREMENT DURATION COUNTER 

JUMP OUT IF TIMED OUT 

INCREMENT SEQUENCE TABLE POINTERS 



RESTORE TEMPO IN X 

JUMP BACK INTO LOOP 

END OF EVENT, RETURN TO CALLER 

VOICE 1 WAVEFORM SEQUENCE TABLE POINTER 

VOICE 2 WAVEFORM SEQUENCE TABLE POINTER 

VOICE 3 WAVEFORM SEQUENCE TABLE POINTER 

VOICE 4 WAVEFORM SEQUENCE TABLE POINTER 



mented, while at SOUND4 the 
waveform-sequence-table pointers 
are incremented if X was decremented 
to zero. Note that the sequence-table- 
lookup instructions at SOUNDl are 
not executed until one sample period 
after the pointers are incremented, by 
virtue of control branching back to 
SOUND2 at the end of SOUND4, in- 
stead of to SOUNDl. This in effect 
uses the instructions at SOUNDl as a 
time equalizer and greatly speeds up 
the routine. 

As written, the sample period lasts 
for 145 processor clock pulses, which 
gives a sample rate of 6.89 kHz for 
four voices. If the routine is rewritten 
for instruction self-modification and 
put in page 0, the sample rate can be 
increased to 7.81 kHz (128 clock 
pulses), which is a much better match 
to the D/A converter filter designed 
for the earlier SOUND routine. 

Higher-speed versions of the 6502, 
such as those found in Ohio Scien- 
tific, Atari, and Micro Technology 
processor boards, can give either 
higher sample rates or more voices, 
or both. For example, a 2 MHz 6502A 
could provide six voices with an 
11-kHz sample rate, and a 3 MHz unit 
could provide eight voices at a 12.6 
kHz rate, the same frequency 
response as an AM radio! 

The use of waveform-sequence 
tables offers a great deal of flexibility 
in handling amplitude envelopes. To 
start a note with a given voice, its 
sequence-table pointer is reset to 0. 
To continue a note through several 
events (such as a half note in the bass 
continued during quarter notes and 
triplets in the treble), the music-code 
interpreter simply does not initialize 
the sequence-table pointer for the half 
note when entering the SOUND 
routine. The pointer then continues 
moving along the sequence table for 
continuity between events. 

A problem may develop if a note is 
so long that the sequence pointer 
wraps around and starts over from 
the beginning. This can occur only 
for durations longer than a whole 
note and may be handled by backing 
the pointer up or switching to a dif- 
ferent sequence table in which all 
entries are the same. In fact, it is 
possible to switch among sequence 
tables. One table is used for the at- 
tack, one for the steady state 
(sustain), and one for the decay. The 
steady-state sequence table could 



184 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 




ENCO 



System for CP# 




Let's face it, there is information which just isn't meant 
for everyone who uses or has access to your computer. 
Consider payroll or tax records. Until now, the only way 
to secure these and other valued or privileged records 
meant either "pulling the plug" or locking the discettes in 
a safe, Who wants to run to the safe each time an update 
needs to be made? At last a simple, effective and 
convenient method of data security is available — 
ENCODE/DECODE. 

ENCODE/DECODE is a complete software security 
system for your micro/mini computer. ENCODE/DECODE 
can provide both the level of security and privacy you 
desire without loss of ON-LINE immediate access to data. 
ENCODE/DECODE is a sophisticated coding program which 
transforms data stored on disc into coded text which is 
completely unrecognizable. When it's time to access the 
file, it is decoded and ready for use. This means that data 
can be on-line and current with all your other files, yet 
only the user defined combination can retrieve it. 

Multiple Security levels: Using ENCODE/DECODE you 
can easily maintain several layers of security through the 
use of separate combinations. This means that each file 
can have its own 'password' allowing only those with the 
'password' access to the file. 

ENCODE/DECODE uses a complex coding algorithm 
which supports over 987,000,000 possible combinations 
thus making accidental or 'exhaustive search' methods of 
decoding virtually impossible. Briefly, an encoded data file 
will appear scrambled and completely unintelligible until 
you decode it. Both encoding and decoding require the 
user defined combination. 



OEM and dealer inquiries invited, overseas orders add $5.00 shipping. 

Circle 101 on inquiry card 



Uses for ENCODE/DECODE are unlimited. Below are a 


few examples: 






data bases 


general ledger 


inventory 


payroll files 


correspondence 


accounts payable/ 


programs 


tax records 


receivable 


text 


mail lists 


& more 



ENCODE/DECODE is available in two versions. 
ENCODE/DECODE I provides a level of security suitable 
for normal use. ENCODE/DECODE II provides enhanced 
security for the most demanding needs. Both versions 
come supplied on discette and with a complete user's manual. 

ENCODE/DECODE I : $ 50.00 
ENCODE/DECODE II: $100.00 
manual for above: S 15.00 

Minimal system requirements: 24K CP/M; 16K disc for TRS-80 



formats: CP/M 8" SOFT SECTORED, N0RTHSTAR CP/M 
AND TRS-80 DOS 



All Orders and General Information: 

SUPERS0FT ASSOCIATES 
P.O. BOX 1628 
CHAMPAIGN, I L 61820 
(217)344-7596 

Technical Hot Line: (217) 384-0847 

(answered only when technician is available] 

*CP/M REGISTERED TRADEMARK DIGITAL RESEARCH 
#TRS-80 TRADEMARK TANDY CORP 

BYTE April 1980 185 



ThesubLOGIC 

FS1 

Flight Simulator 4 




oil r-«"*iiC*t ii fie** 



is just one 
application of 
our fine 
graphic 
software. 

Other 

applications 
can be yours! 



Choose from a coordinated software 
and hardware collection to fit your 
graphic needs . . . 

SOFTWARE 

A23D1 animation package for the 
Apple II ($45 on cassette, $55 for disk). 

8080/Z80 3D package for most S100 
systems ($41 on tarbell cassette or 
paper tape, $51 on 5" North Star disk, 
or $52 on 8" CPM disk). 

HARDWARE (S100) 

Biotech CGS 808 $ 399 
Matrox ALT-256 $395 
Matrox ALT-51 2 $595 

Write or call for an informative catalog 
describing these and other graphic 
products and their easy use in your 
applications. 

Most sub LOGIC software is at your 
dealer's. If he doesn't stock it, order 
direct from subLOGIC. Add $ 1 .25 for 
UPS or $ 1 .75 for first class mail. Visa 
and Mastercharge accepted. n 

*The FS1 Flight Simulator is available 
for Apple II and TRS-80 Level I & II 
for $25 on cassette. 



(217)359-8482 ■ ^\^\m^\, 

@nnfe)LDGIC 

^^UU^/ Box V, Savoy, IL 61874 
The engineering and graphics experts. 



Circle 102 on inquiry card. 

186 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



even be coded to cycle through 
several waveform tables and thus 
make possible a kind of vibrato. 
Separate sequence tables could also 
be used for different playing styles, 
such as legato, staccato, etc. 

Music-Code Interpreter 

The music-code interpreter is a pro- 
gram that looks at the encoded score 
in memory, sets up the parameters for 
the SOUND routine, and then calls 
SOUND for each encoded event. A 
music compiler, when written, trans- 
lates a high-level music language into 
the binary-encoded form to be 
described. 

Although such operations are 
usually done in a music compiler, this 
interpreter can also compute 



waveform and sequence tables from 
instrument specifications encoded in 
the score. An advantage of this 
capability is that instrument 
specifications can sometimes be 
recomputed on the fly during natural 
breaks in the music score, if a high- 
speed Fourier series routine is 
available. 

In order to maximize the flexibility 
of the system while simplifying the 
interpreter, the score is encoded into 
two completely separate strings or 
arrays of 8-bit bytes. One of these is 
called the command string, and it 
consists of commands to the inter- 
preter such as "Construct an instru- 
ment," "Set tempo/' "Play a melody 
segment," "Stop," etc. The other 
string is called the note string, and it 




Figure 9a: Artist's conception of the Glocken-flute, a hypothetical instrument, from a 
sketch by Cliff Ashcraft. 




TIME- 



Figure 9b: Amplitude envelopes for harmonics present in tones produced by the 
Glocken-flute. 



LIMITED 
EDITION 




Offered for the first time, Volumes II and 
III of BYTE back issues, packed with articles 
by your favorite authors, are a real 
collector's item. Volume II contains issues 
from January '77 thru December '77 and 
Volume III contains issues from January '78 
thru December 78. Each volume is priced at 
$100. 

These gold embossed, hard-cover volumes 
are individually numbered with only 100 sets 
available. Orders will be handled on a first- 
come, first-served basis. Based on our quick 
sell-out of Volume I, we know that this 
limited offer will sell rapidly. So fill out the 
coupon below and rush your order to BYTE 
BOOKS today. 



P Volume II Parts 1 and 2 (Jan '77 thru Dec '77) $100.00 

□ Volume III Parts 1 and 2 (Jan 78) $100.00 mj M IVV 

G Check enclosed for ■inm iW 

D Bill BankAmericard/Visa □ Bill Master Charge 

,, Exp. Date 



Name (please print) 
Address _^_^^_ 



. State . 



. Zip . 



m 



ffcmgk 
fmsm 197? 



Mail to: BYTE Books, Inc. 
70 Main Street 
Peterborough N.H. 03458 






Circle 103 on inquiry card. 



Circle 104 on inquiry card. 



WHAT'S A 
B TREE? 



SIMPLY THE BEST 

APPROACH TO KEYED 

FILE ACCESSING! 



WHY IS IT THE BEST? 



A B TREE INDEX ensures fast 
insertion, retrieval and dele- 
tion of index entries, even if 
you have over 10,000 key val- 
ues. 

A B TREE INDEX never needs 
to be reorganized. It guaran- 
tees the same, short access 
path to every key value no 
matter how often the index is 
updated. 



HOW CAN I GROW 
B TREES? 



Easy, order MICRO B-r^from 
FairCom. MICRO B-T is the 
first B TREE INDEX designed 
especially for microcom- 
puters. FairCom has incor- 
porated the most advanced 
features available anywhere: 

• Virtual disk access to re- 
duce index search time. 

• Local node rotation to im- 
prove storage utilization. 

• Linked leaf nodes to pro- 
vide rapid sequential 
access. 

• Duplicate key values ac- 
cepted. 

MICRO B-r 1 ** source code on 
disk, DEMO and Manual. .$195* 

MICRO B-r 1 " Demonstration 
Disk and Manual. ...$25 

MICRO B-r 1 " source code list- 
ing. ..$145* 

Specify CBASIC-II or MICRO- 
SOFT Basic Version 5. 

Shipping $2 USA, $5 Foreign. 

Disks are CP/M 'compatible, 
8" soft sectored format. 

2606 Johnson Drive 
f\IU| Columbia. Mo. 65201 
'V/IVI 314-445-3304 

•Single CPU License 'Trademark of Digital Research 
188 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



contains the actual encoded notes. 

Functions such as repetition of 
melody segments (for refrains and the 
like) are handled by coding multiple 
commands in the command string to 
play the same note-string segment. If 
intervening commands between 
occurrences have changed the tempo 
or instrument assignments, the same 
note-string segment will sound dif- 
ferent when it is played again. 

This double-string structure gives 
all of the power of jumps, repeats, 
and musical subroutines while 
avoiding the need for return-address 
saving, symbol tables, or look-ahead 
in either the interpreter or compiler. 
It also makes editing the strings 
easier. 



Structure of the Note String 

The format of the note string is 
quite simple, and consists of a 
sequence of segments. Each segment 
is a section of the score that can be 
treated as a unit. The command string 
determines the order in which the 
segments are actually played. Within 
a segment is coded a sequence of 
events where each event requires 
JV+1 bytes, where N is the number of 
voices. The first byte of the event 
gives the duration of the event. The 
actual duration, in sample periods, is 
equal to the value of the duration 
byte multiplied by the current value 
stored in location TEMPO. A dura- 
tion value of signifies the end of the 
segment. 




Figure 10a: Artist's conception of the Blither, another hypothetical instrument, from a 
sketch by Cliff Ashcraft. 



8th 7th 6th 5th 4th 3rd 2nd 1st 




Figure 10b: Amplitude envelopes for the Blither. Note the unusual symmetry exhibited 
by the envelopes. 



WHAT WOULD YOU SAY TO 



•i i^k<*::a-^i i : :i - q a shah : > 



FROM YOUR MICROCOMPUTER? 



"YOU'RE TALKING OUR LANGUAGE: 

PL/l-80." 



New PL/1-80 from Digital Research Brings Big Computer 
Programming Power to Microcomputer Systems. 



PL/1-80 is the biggest 
news for small system 
users and OEMs since we 
introduced CP/AA® and 
AAP/AA. PL/1-80 is ANSI's 
General Purpose Subset of 
full PL/ 1, tailored into a 
language for 8080, 8085 
and Z80 users who expect 
the software revolution 
they've seen in hardware 
— better results at lower 
cost. PL/1-80 works harder 
than any other general- 
purpose language for 
business, science, re- 
search and education. 

The PL/1-80 software 
package includes a na- 
tive code compiler, com- 
prehensive subroutine 
library, linkage editor and 
relocating macroassem- 
bler. And it's backed by 
our CP/M and AAP/AA 
operating systems. 

Best of a 1 1 , the complete 
PL/1-80 system disk- 
ette and documenta- 
tion costs just $500. 

PL/1-80: There's no 
better way to get big- 
machine results from your 
8-bit processor. 



Single -and Multi-User Operating Systems 
That Set Industry Standards. 



CP/M is the industry 
standard operating 
system for small ma- 
chines. With thousands 
of users throughout the 
world, it's the most popu- 
lar and widely used. It's 
the original, hardware- 
independent 'bus' for 
users working with a 
broad array of lan- 
guages, word-processing 
and applications 
software available from 
scores of suppliers at 
affordable prices. 

Now we've made a great 
CP/M even better. CP/M 
2.2 is the latest release of 
the efficient, reliable sys- 
tem that's truly universal, 
able to manage virtually 
any 8080, 8085 or Z80 
micro and its floppy or 
hard-disk subsystems. 
Named to the 1979 
Data pro Software Honor 
Roll, CP/M comes on a 
diskette with its own 
operating manual, for 
just $150 in unit 
quantity. 



MP/M® provides big- 
computer power at 
small-computer cost. It 

provides multi-terminal 
access with multi- 
programming at each 
terminal. And it's CP/M 
compatible, so you can 
run many programming 
languages, applications 
packages and develop- 
ment software on your 
system. 

Check these advanced 
capabilities. Run editors, 
translators, word proces- 
sors and background 
print spoolers simulta- 
neously. Use MP/M's 
real-time facilities to 
monitor an assembly line 
and schedule programs 
automatically, or control 
a network of micros. Even 
write your own system 
processes for operation 
under MP/M. The pos- 
sibilities are endless, yet 
MP/M costs just $300 
(unit price for diskette 
and manual). 



Utilities That Work 
For You. 

Use our utilities. Thousands 

do. They're designed to make 
your small system work extra 
hard, yet they cost surprisingly 
little.: 

• MAC™ (Macro 
Assembler) — $90. 

• SID™ (Symbolic Instruction 
Debugger) — $75. 

• ZSID™(Z80 Symbolic Instruc- 
tion Debugger) — $100. 

• TEX (Text Formatter) — $75. 

• DESPOOL™ (Background Print 
Utility)— $50. 

All are supplied on a diskette, 
with operating manual. 



Digital Research 

P.O. Box 579 

801 Lighthouse Avenue 
Pacific Grove, CA 93950 
408 649-3896 
TWX 910 360 5001 



M DIGITAL RESEARCH 



Circle 105 on inquiry card. 



Succeeding bytes in the event seg- 
ment give the pitches for each of the 
N voices. A command in the com- 
mand string can alter N, if it is desired 
to save space when only a couple of 



voices are required for the segment. 
The pitch can be specified over a five- 
octave range that normally goes from 
Cl (32.7 Hz) to C6 (1046.5 Hz) and 
contains sixty-one pitch possibilities. 



Hexadecimal 
Op Code 


Data Bytes 


00 
FF 




01 

thru 

OF 


L,H 


10 


11,12,13,14 


11 


T 


12 


N 


13 


U 


14 


L,H,... 


20 


S 


21 


S,N, 
H,,W,A, 
W,A, 




FF, 




ff" 


22 


A,S,N, 
D1,D2,...,DN 



23 



24 



25 



A.S.N, 
DN,D(N-1),. 

A,$,N,E 



,D1 



A.S.N.E 



Operation Description 

End of command list, return to system monitor. 



Play note segment starting at location given by 
address bytes H,L relative to beginning of note 
string. Version of SOUND used depends on op 
code. 01 = original SOUND routine, 02 = advanced 
SOUND routine. 

Assign instrument 11, 12, etc to voice 1, voice 2, etc, 
respectively. Value of 11, 12, etc is page address of 
waveform-sequence table for the instrument, 
relative to origin of waveform memory. 

Set TEMPO parameter to T. 

Set number of active voices to N; inactive voices 
must be assigned to a silent instrument. 

Establish pitch offset of J semitones for voice I. J is 
a signed integer. All offsets are initialized to zero. 

Go to user-supplied subroutine at absolute address 
H,L Command string pointer is pointing to the byte 
following H. 

Create silent instrument at relative page address S 
and S + 1 

Create a sequence of waveform tables. Start at 
relative page address S and occupy a total of N 
pages. H, is harmonic number, 00 = noise, FF = end 
of command. W,A group defines a line segment for 
harmonic H,; W = ending page address (relative 
to S) which is abcissa, and A = ending amplitude 
which is ordinate. Initial endpoint of first line seg- 
ment for the harmonic is 0,0. W = FF = end of har- 
monic. 

Create a waveform-sequence table at A for 
waveform set computed with 21 op code using S 
and N. D1 is dwell time for waveform 1 in terms of 
waveform-sequence sample period, D2 is dwell time 
for waveform 2, etc. The sum of the D parameters 
should normally be 256. 

Same as 22, except waveform-sequence is 
backwards. 

Create a waveform-sequence table at A for 
waveform set computed with 21 opcode using S and 
N. E is an exponential "stretch" factor. E = gives 
a uniform sampling of the N waveforms. Positive E 
gives an increasing sample rate toward the end of 
the sequence table, while negative E gives a 
decreasing sample rate. The exponential scale fac- 
tor is such that E= 16 gives a two-to-one stretch 
ratio, E = 32 a four-to-one ratio, etc. 

Same as 24, except waveform sequence is 
backwards. 



Table 1: Instruction set of the command-code interpreter. The hexadecimal code in 
the leftmost column invokes the described operation. The op code is followed by one 
or more data bytes that give parameters for the specified operation. When execution 
of the interpreter begins, the memory addresses of the origin of the command string, 
note string, and waveform-table work areas are passed as parameters. All addresses 
in the command string are given relative to these origins. 



The pitches can also be transposed up 
or down with an offset command for 
greater range. 

Six bits of the pitch-specification 
byte indicate the pitch within the five- 
octave range. The remaining two- 
pitch bits specify how the amplitude 
envelope is to be handled. Currently, 
only one bit is used to specify one of 
the two states begin note (reset 
waveform -sequence pointer) and con- 
tinue note (leave pointer alone), and 
the other bit is reserved for future 
use. 

Structure of the Command String 

The command string is organized 
as a list of commands that are simply 
executed in strict sequential order. An 
individual command consists of a 
command code byte followed by as 
many data bytes as the command 
needs. Table 1 gives a partial list of 
available commands. There is plenty 
of room for expansion as the music 
package evolves and matures. Many 
of the commands involve memory 
addresses such as the beginning of a 
note-string segment or the addresses 
of sequence and waveform tables. 
When the interpreter is entered, the 
addresses of the origins in memory of 
the command string, note string, and 
work area for waveform tables are 
given; all addresses in the command 
string are relative to the beginning of 
these areas. This allows score coding 
to be machine-independent. 

Coding Instrument Definitions 

Several of the available commands 
are used for 'constructing instru- 
ments," which actually means 
computing the necessary waveform 
and sequence tables. The first step in 
construction is to cause a sequence of 
waveform tables to be computed by 
using the command code hexadecimal 
21. 

The S parameter is the page address 
(relative to the beginning of wave- 
form memory) where the first wave- 
form table will be stored. The N 
parameter is the total number of 
waveform pages that will be created. 
This is checked against succeeding 
line segment data to minimize the 
effect of errors. S and N also serve to 
uniquely identify the waveform 
sequence for other commands. 

In order to simplify coding from 



190 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



ALMOST 
PERFEC. 



TM 



The MAwlV WANU is the most powerful, 
most flexible, most reliable, most usable word processing 
software available for a CP/M-based computer. 



That's not bragging. That's just telling it 
like it is. 

The MAGIC WAND is the best word 
processing software ever written for a 
microcomputer. It can do more work in 
less time with higher quality than any 
other product you can buy. 

The MAGIC WAND is a rock solid piece 
of software. The command structure is 
simple and logical and complete. We have 
not tossed in features without thought to 
the overall design of the package. Nor 
have we included any feature that is not 
thoroughly implemented. The programs 
are crash-proof and completely reliable. 

And the system is supported by what we 
are told is the best user's manual ever pro- 
duced for microcomputer software. It 
contains a step-by-step instructional pro- 
gram designed for the novice. The trainee 
uses sample files from the system disk and 
compares his work to simulated screens 
and printouts in the manual. 

Support doesn't stop when you buy the 
package. As a registered user, you receive 
our bi-monthly newsletter which answers 
questions, reports upgrades and teaches 
new applications of the MAGIC WAND. 

It's through a lot of hard work that we 
are able to offer you a product that is 
"almost perfect," but we aren't about to 
stop working until we can say that the 
MAGIC WAND is perfect. 



Full screen text editing 

The MAGIC WAND has probably the most 
responsive and easy-to-use editor avail- 
able for either a serial or DMA terminal. It 
uses only single stroke control keys to 
give command and takes advantage of the 
special function keys on your terminal 
whenever possible. In addition, you can 
set up library files withcoded sectionsthat 
you can merge by section name. 

Full text formatting commands 
The MAGIC WAND allows you to set the 
left, right, top and bottom margins, page 
length, indentation, paragraph indenta- 
tion, {incuding "hanging" paragraphs), 
text left flush, right flush, justified (two 
ways), literal or centered, variable line and 
pitch settings, variable spacing (including 
half lines), bold face, underlining (solid or 
broken), conditional hyphenation, sub- 
and superscripting. You may change any 
of these commands at run-time without 
reformatting the file. 

Merging with external data files 
You may access any external data file, 
with either fixed length or sequential 
records. The MAGIC WAND converts the 
record into variables that you define and 
can use like any other variable. Of course, 
you may use the data for automatic form 
letter generation. But you can also use it 
for report generation. 



Variables 

You may define up to 128 variables with 
names of up to seven characters. The cur- 
rent value of a variable may be up to 55 
characters, and you may print it at any 
point in the text without affecting the cur- 
rent format. Although the MAGIC WAND 
stores the variables as strings, you may 
also treat them as integer numbers or for- 
mat them with commas and a decimal 
point. You may increment or decrement 
numeric variables or use them in format- 
ting commands. 

Conditional commands 

You may give any print command based 
on a run-time test of a pre-defined condi- 
tion. The conditional test uses a straight- 
forward IF statement, which allows you to 
test any logical condition of a variable. 
You may skip over unneeded portions of 
the file, select specific records to print, 
store more than one document in a single 
file, etc. 

True proportional printing 

The MAGIC WAND supports proportional 
print elements on NEC, Diablo and Qume 
printers. Other formatting commands, 
including justified columns, boldface, 
underline, etc., are fully functional while 
using proportional logic. 



Available on 8" soft-sectored and 5 1/4" Northstar or Micropolis (hard or soft sectored) diskettes, as well as 
ONYX hard disk. Terminals supported include— ADDS, Beehive, Cromemco, Dynabyte. Hazeltine. Heath, Imsai, 
Intertec, Lear Siegler, Microterm Act V, Perkin Elmer, Sol VDM1. Soroc, TEC. TEI. Televideo, TRS80 Mod M, 
Vector Graphics, plus a variety of video boards 



su\o\\ business 



, u\c. 



3220 Louisiana • Suite 205 • Houston, Texas 77006 • 713-528-5158 

CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research Corp 

Circle 106 on inquiry card. byte April i960 191 



published instrument analyses (such 
as the quarterly installments of the 
the "Lexicon of Analyzed Tones" in 
the Computer Music Journal), the 
command processor will accept har- 
monic data in a line-segment form. 
The envelope of each harmonic is 
defined by a substring of bytes 

(Hi, W,A,W,A ,FF) where H t is 

the actual harmonic number, and 
each W,A pair defines a point on the 
time-amplitude plane for that har- 
monic. 

A is the amplitude value (an 
unsigned binary fraction), and IV is 



the waveform number, which is 
proportional to time. The routine will 
linearly interpolate intermediate am- 
plitude values from the previous W, A 
point to the current W,A point. The 
initial point is always 0,0. Of course, 
if you wish to directly specify the har- 
monic amplitude in each waveform 
table, then consecutive Ws from to 
N — 1 with corresponding ampli- 
tudes could be coded. The end of the 
W, A sequence is denoted by a value 
for W equal to hexadecimal FF, At 
that point data for another harmonic 
could follow, or another hexadecimal 



COMMAND STRING 


EXPLANATION 


Relative 
Address 


Code Bytes 




0000 


20 00 


Create a silent instrument for inactive voices at 
page in waveform memory 


0002 


21 02 1B 


Create a sequence of waveform tables for the 
Blither starting at page 2 in waveform memory, hex- 
adecimal 1B waveforms 


0005 


01 18 3C1B00FF 


Fundamental, two line segments; 0,0 to 18.3C to 
1B,0 


000B 


02 15 3C1B00FF 


2nd harmonic, two line segments: 0,0 to 15,3C to 
1B,0 


0011 


03 12 3C1B00FF 


3rd harmonic, two line segments: 0,0 to 12.3C to 
1B,0 


0017 


04 0F3C1B00FF 


4th harmonic, two line segments: 0,0 to 0F,3C to 
1B,0 


001 D 


05 0C 3C 1 B 00 FF 


5th harmonic, two line segments: 0,0 to 0C,3C to 
1B,0 


0023 


06 09 3C1B00FF 


6th harmonic, two line segments: 0,0 to 09, 3C to 
1B.0 


0029 


07 06 3C1B00FF 


7th harmonic, two line segments: 0,0 to 06.3C to 
1B ( 


002 F 


08 03 3C1B00FF 


8th harmonic, two line segments: 0,0 to 03, 3C to 
1B,0 


0035 


FF 


End of command 


0036 


24 1 D 02 1 B F0 


Create a waveform sequence table for the Blither at 
page 1D in waveform memory using an exponential 
stretch factor of - 16. 


003B 


251E021B10 


Create a reverse waveform sequence table at page 
1E for the "Anti-Blither" using the same waveforms. 


0040 


12 02 


Set number of active voices to 2. 


0042 


101D 1E00 00 


Voice 1 is Blither, voice 2 is Anti-Blither, voices 3 
and 4 are silent. 


0047 


11 64 


Set TEMPO to 100. 


0049 


02 00 00 


Play note string segment at beginning of note string. 


004C 


02 00 00 


Play the scale again. 


004 F 


FF 


End of command string, finished. 


Table 2a: An example of a command string. This command string plays a scale on 
the Blither using the note string of table 2b. 



FF value could be coded to end the 
waveform-computation command. 

Note that if a harmonic amplitude 
is not specified for a waveform, then 
its amplitude is assumed to be 0. 
Presently the system sets the phase 
angles of all harmonics to 90° 
leading (negative sine waves), which 
minimizes attack clicks and allows 
the use of symmetry to double the 
waveform computation speed. The 
zeroeth harmonic is actually a source 
of white noise, which enhances the 
realism of some instruments and 
allows limited percussion effects. 

Once the waveforms have been 
computed, the waveform-sequence 
table must be constructed. Since there 
are fewer waveforms than the 
256-entry capacity of the table, there 
will be much duplication of entries. 

The command indicated by hex- 
adecimal 22 will construct a sequence 
table with an arbitrary time duration 
for each waveform. The A parameter 
specifies the memory page number 
where the sequence table will be 
stored, and the S,N pair identifies the 
set of waveforms the table is to 
address. The following N bytes gives 
the "dwell" time in terms of 
waveform-sequence-sample periods 
(in terms of audio sample periods 
each having the value set by TEMPO) 
for each of the N waveforms. Nor- 
mally the sum of these bytes equals 
256 so that the full length of the table 
addresses all of the waveforms. Using 
this command, arbitrary non- 
uniform sampling of the waveform 
tables may be specified. The 
command-sequence invoked by hex- 
adecimal 23 is similar, except that the 
waveform tables are stepped through 
in reverse order. 

For most instruments, the 24 com- 
mand is appropriate, since only one 
parameter is needed to define how the 
sequence table is to be filled. A, S, 
and N are as before; and E is an 
"exponential stretch" factor. If E is set 
to 0, then uniform sampling is en- 
abled, and the sequence table simply 
uses a duplication factor of 256/N. If 
E is positive, then the sampling den- 
sity increases (as the duplication 
factor decreases) toward the end of 
the table, which means that wave- 
forms are sequenced faster at the end 
of the note than at the beginning. A 
negative £ makes things happen faster 
at the beginning, which is the usual 
case for normal instruments. 

E is scaled such that a value of 



192 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Settle for More 
from , Vbur TRS-80 



BASIC Compiler, with trs-so basic 

Compiler, your Level II BASIC programs will run at 
record speeds! Compiled programs execute an 
average of 3-10 times faster than programs run 
under Level II. Make extensive use of integer 
operations, and get speeds 20-30 times faster 
than the interpreter. 

Best of all BASIC Compiler does it with BASIC, 
the language you already know. By compiling 
the same source code that your current BASIC 
interprets, BASIC Compiler adds speed with a 
minimum of effort. 

And you get more BASIC features to program 
with, since features of Microsoft's Version 5.0 
BASIC Interpreter are included in the package. 
Features like the WHILE . . WEND statement, long 
variable names, variable length records, and the 
CALL statement make programming easier. An 
exclusive BASIC Compiler feature lets you call 
FORTRAN and machine language subroutines 
much more easily than in Level II. 

Simply type in and debug your program as 
usual, using the BASIC interpreter. Then enter a 
command line telling the computer what to 
compile and what options to use. 

Voila! Highly optimized, Z-80 machine code 
that your computer executes in a flash! Run it now 
or save it for later. Your compiled program can be 
saved on disk for direct execution every time, 

Want to market your programs? Compiled ver- 
sions are ideal for distribution* You distribute only 
the object code, not the source, so your genius 
stays fully protected. ■< &-... ... 

BASIC Compiler runs on your 
TRS-80 Model I with 48K and disk 
drive. The package includes 
BASIC Compiler, linking loader 
and BASIC library with complete 
documentation. $195.00. 



MORE 

FROM 

MICROSOFT 



'Microsoft royalty information for 
the sale of programs compiled 
with BASIC Compiler is available 
from Microsoft. 




muMflXH Symbolic Math System 

expands your TRS-80 beyond the limits of numeri- 
cal evaluation to a much higher level of math 
sophistication. 

Symbolic mathematics is muMATH's power. For 
the first time, algebra, trigonometry, calculus, 
integration, differentiation and more can be per- 
formed on a system smaller than an IBM 370. And 
in a fraction of the time you could do them 
manually 

Yet for all its power, muMATH is simple to use. 
To perform a differentiation you could enter: 
?DIF(A # XT3 + SIN(XT 2),X); 

In almost no time, the computer would reply 
with: @2*X*COS(XT 2) + 3 # A # X f 2. 

Or to add fractions: ?1/3 + 5/6 + 2/5 + 3/7; 
The instantaneous answer: 419/210. 
Or to perform a more difficult trigonometric 
expansion you enter: SIN(2 # Y]*(4*COS(X]t3-COS 
(3*X] + SIN (Y) # (COS(X+Y+#Pi] - COS(X-Y)); 

Just a few seconds later, the computer replies: 
@4*SIN(Y] # COS(X]*COS(Y). 

muMATH has virtually infinite precision with full 
accuracy up to 611 digits. 

If you use math, you'll find countless ways to save 
time and effort with muMATH. It's a professional 
tool for engineers and scientists. A learning tool 
for students at any level from algebra to calculus. 
And if you want to expand your capabilities 
even beyond the standard muMATH, the option is 
open. muSIMR the programming language in 
which muMATH is written, is included in the muMATH 
package. A superset of the lan- 
guage LISP, muSIMP is designed 
especially for interactive symbolic 
mathematics and other artificial 
intelligence applications. 

muMATH and muSIMP were 

written by The Soft Warehouse, 

Honolulu, Hawaii. Priced at $7495, 

the package includes muMATH, 

muSIMP and a complete manual. 

It requires a Model I TRS-80 with 

32K and single disk. muMATH 

for the Apple II Computer will 

be available later this year 



You can buy muMATH and BASIC Compiler at computer stores across the country that carry Microsoft 
products. If your local store doesn't have them, call us. 206-454-1315. Or write Microsoft Consumer 
Products, 10800 Northeast Eighth, Suite 507, Bellevue, WA 98004. 



MtCflOSOfT 

v consumerI products^ 



Circle 107 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 193 



Circle 108 on inquiry card. 



AVAILABLE 

WITHOUT 

PRESCRIPTION! 



THE ONLY 
SYSTEM OF ITS 

KIND YOUR 

MICROCOMPUTER 

WILL EVER 

NEED! 

GLOBAL 

DATABASE 

MANAGEMENT 

SYSTEM 

for 
PROGRAMMERS. ACCOUNTANTS, BOOK- 
KEEPERS, DOCTORS, LAWYERS, PUB- 
LISHERS, SCIENTISTS, MANUFAC- 
TURERS, WHOLESALERS, RETAILERS, 
MANAGERS, LANDLORDS, REAL ESTATE 
AGENTS, TEACHERS, STUDENTS, ETC. 

Extremely comprehensive, versatile 
user-oriented management system for 
database creation and list main- 
tenance. Runs under CP/M* and 
CBASIC2** on a microcomputer 
system in only 40K RAM. 

Completely user-defined file structure 
with sequential, random and linked file 
maintenance; user-defined number of 
fields; data transfer between records; 
automatic high speed search 
algorithms with global search func- 
tion; built-in ISAM; fast sort/merge 
utility; record selectable output can be 
formatted (with/without headings, col- 
umn titles, totals, etc.) and printed on 
various forms (labels, envelopes, 
preprinted forms, etc.); links to CP/M 
commands or programs with 
automatic return to Global; provides 
status reports on diskette, data file and 
hardware environment; disk used as 
extended memory. 

Supplied on standard 8" IBM disk (inquire about 
other formats), complete with BASIC subroutine 
library in source code, with Cr\^\r m 
comprehensive manual. ^7^1^ 

MANUAL ONLY. ..$25 



Add ■ 



* Trademark of 
Digital Research 
* * Trademark of 
Software Systems 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 



Shipping $2.00 
C.O.D. 1.00 
Sales Tax 
where applicable 






LOBAL 



ARAMETERS 

1505 Ocean Ave., Brooklyn, N.Y. 11230 
212/252-5002 



NOTE STRING 


EXPLANATION 


Relative 
Address 


Code Bytes 




0000 


40 19 0D 


Blither plays quarter note C3, Anti-Blither plays C2, 
envelope starts at beginning. 


0003 


40 9B8F 


D3 and D2, continue envelope for tied notes. 


0006 


40 9D91 


E3 and E2, tied to first two notes 


0009 


40 1E12 


F3 and F2, restart envelope. 


OOOC 


40 AO 94 


G3 and G2, continue envelope. 


000F 


40 A2 96 


A3 and A2, continue envelope. 


0012 


40 24 18 


B3 and B2, restart envelope. 


0015 


80 25 19 


C4 and C3, half notes, tied to previous notes. 


0018 


00 


End of note segment, return to command string. 


Table 2b: An example of a note 
ment shown in figure 10. 


string that plays a scale on the Blither, the instru- 



+ 16 (or —16) will give a two-to-one 
difference in duplication factor be- 
tween the end and the beginning of 
the sequence table. A value of 32 
gives a four-to-one difference, and so 
on. The command processor is smart 
enough so that all of the waveforms 
are used, regardless of the value of £. 
The 25 command is similar except 
that the waveform tables are se- 
quenced backward. 

Note that, by using different 
sequence-table commands and dif- 
ferent parameter values, a number of 
different sequence tables may be 
created using the same waveform set. 
This gives a variety of different 
sounding instruments (it is often sur- 
prising how different sounding they 
are) with only 256 bytes required per 
additional instrument. There are 
doubtless many other methods of 
specifying waveform-sequence tables 
(such as provision for cycling 
waveforms to achieve vibrato), and 
there is ample room for expansion. 

Probably the easiest way to verify 
an understanding of the preceding is 
to follow through an instrument- 
definition example. For simplicity, 
the Blither, whose analysis is shown 
in figure 10b, will be used. Table 2 
gives a command sequence that can 
be used to define the instrument, 
assign it to a voice, and play a note- 
string segment with it. 

Results 

There are many other aspects of the 
interpreter too numerous to explain 



here. In general, the system gives 
very good results, even at the 6.9 kHz 
sample rate that the unoptimized 
SOUND routine provides. Over two 
dozen pieces of widely varying con- 
tent have been coded by Frank and 
Cliff and played to audiences. The 
biggest hit has been "Dueling Banjos" 
from the movie Deliverance, which, 
after several iterations of the instru- 
ment definitions, produces quite 
realistic guitar and banjo sounds. 

With relatively little effort, instru- 
ment definitions for cello, baritone 
horn, clarinet, mandolin, flute, 
zither, and even steel-drum band 
have been coded as well, and in- 
tegrated into appropriate (and not so 
appropriate) musical scores. The 
piano has proved to be very difficult 
to imitate passably, but progress is 
being made by defining each octave 
as a separate instrument. The 
development of a sound-analysis pro- 
gram that runs on a 6502 micro- 
processor and produces data accept- 
able to the music interpreter will 
greatly aid the coding of additional 
existing instruments. 

The biggest complaint from 
listeners has been the small but audi- 
ble background-noise level which 
results from waveform-pointer trun- 
cation and, to a lesser extent, from 
waveform-table switching. In con- 
trast, users of the system who attempt 
to encode melodies seem bothered 
most by the limited high-frequency 
response, which restricts the notes 
playable by instruments that have 



194 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Combine the POWER of PASCAL 
with the MUSCLE of your MICRO! 
Get the tool to do your job right: 

RASCAL/MT ® 3.0 



Executes under 
CP/M® in as little as 
32K bytes. 

Compiles directly to 
Romable 8080 
object code at up to 
2000 lines per 
minute. 

Contains built-in mini 
assembler for in-line 
machine code. 

Supports CP/M® files 
including CP/M® 2.0 
random access files. 

Includes program 
chaining facilities. 



{HANDLE A/D CONVERSION EVERY SECOND FOR 3 HOURS} 

PROGRAM SAMPLER: 

[* DEMONSTRATES THE POWER OF PASCAL/MT*) 

CONST 

RTC VECTOR =6; {FOR RTC ISR} 

TYPE 
TIME^OF__DAY = RECORD 

HOURS : 0..24; 

MINUTES : 0.60; 
SECONDS : 0.60 
END; 
VAR 

NOW: TIME OF DAY; 

SAMPLE: INTEGER; 



. TIME 



OF DAY; 



PROCEDURE INCREMENT. 
BEGIN 

. . . [* INCREMENTS NOW BY ONE SECOND*] 
END; 

PROCEDURE GET SAMPLE; {TALK TO A/D CONVERTER} 

BEGIN 
SAMPLE—INPUT [S3B]; {GET I/O PORT DATA} 
OUTPUT [$FA] ■ SHR [SAMPLE. 3]; {USE SHIFT RIGHT} 
WHILE TSTBIT (INPUT [$6C], 2] <> TRUE DO; {WAIT} 
INLINE ("LDA / SFOCD / "STA / $3098); {OJB CODE} 

END; 

PROCEDURE INTERRUPT [RTC VECTOR] RTC ISR; 

BEGIN {INTERRUPT SERVICE ROUTINE} 

GET SAMPLE [* EVERY SECOND *] 

INCREMENT___ TIME OF DAY 

END; 

BEGIN 

NOW. SECONDS: = 0; NOW. MINUTES: =0; NOW. HOURS: 

INLINE ['MVI A, / $3E / "SIM {80B5}]; {START CLOCK} 

GET SAMPLE; {TAKE FIRST SAMPLE} 

WHILE NOW. HOURS <> 3 DO; {SAMPLE FOR 3 HOURS} 
END. {AT END RETURN TO OPERATING SYSTEM} 



Features a 

SYMBOLIC debugger 
which allows variable 
display and 
breakpoints. 

Supports I/O port 
access and interrupt 
procedures. 

Contains bit and byte 
manipulation facilities. 

Minimum overhead of 
1 .25K bytes. 

Includes business and 
scientific arithmetic. 



Price: $250 : Business & Scientific Compilers, Runtime Source, Debugger, User's Manual 
$ 30 : Manual Only, refundable with purchase of total package 




TST /MT micro SYSTEMS 

1 562 Kings Cross Drive 
Cardiff, CA 92007 [71 4] 753-4856 

We ship on 8" single density floppies 

® PASCAL7MT tradename of MT MICROSYSTEMS, CP/M trademark of Digital Research 
OTHER DISK FORMATS: LIFEBOAT [212] 580-0082, FMG [817] 294-2510 



Circle 109 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 195 



rich harmonic spectra . By orches- 
trating the piece properly, it is possi- 
ble to mask these shortcomings to 
some degree. 

Evolution into a Non-Real-Time 
System 

If the goal is production of music to 
be stored on audio media, it is possi- 
ble to take the synthesizing process 
out of real time and thereby obtain a 
much higher-quality result. In par- 
ticular, the sample rate may be made 
as high as desired and the noise level 
made inaudible (compared to the 
noise inherent in the recording 
medium) by eliminating the shortcuts 
necessary for real-time output. 
Multiplication and division can also 
be admitted if needed, and new 
features, such as a digital filtering, 
added. 

The usual complaint about non- 
real-time systems is the lack of im- 
mediate audible feedback, which im- 
pedes the composition process. 
However, with this system, composi- 
tion can be done in real-time mode 
with all the features available; then 
the music can be realized in non-real- 
time mode for a perfectly clean- 
sounding final result. This is not 
unlike common practice in word- 
processing centers (computerized typ- 
ing pools) where a high-speed, dot- 
matrix proof printer is used for rapid 
draft output and a much slower 
letter-quality printer is used for the 
final copy. 

In the past, a non-real-time music 
synthesis system was simply not prac- 
tical on personal-computer hardware 
because the required volume of high- 
speed mass storage was unavailable. 
However, many of the systems enter- 
ing today's market have the necessary 
disk-storage capacity and transfer 
rate to do an excellent job. It goes 
without saying that a system 
equipped with a hard disk drive is 
more than adequate, and a fair num- 
ber of manufacturers have hard disk 
systems available for personal and 
small business computers. The typical 
storage capacity of 10 megabytes 
would hold in excess of 5 minutes of 
12-bit sound at a 20 kHz sample rate, 
adequate for a typical record-album 
cut. 



However, it is surprising to many 
people that floppy disks are also prac- 
tical for music playback and, of 
course, they cost much less than a 
hard disk. An ordinary 8-inch, single- 
sided, single-density floppy-disk 
drive can attain an average transfer 
rate of 20 K bytes per second, and a 
disk in that drive can hold 315 K 
bytes of data if it is formatted proper- 
ly. This translates into a 13.3 kHz 
sample rate with 12-bit samples, and 
into about 15 seconds of music per 
disk. With two drives and a carefully 
written waveform-sample-playback 
program, the idle disk drive can be 
manually loaded while the other is 
being read and thereby attain prac- 
tically unlimited piece durations. 
Double-density disks could double 
the sample rate, and double-sided 
disks could double the duration per 
disk to 30 seconds of 25 kHz sample- 
rate, 12-bit sound! 

The problem up until now has ac- 
tually been the typical floppy-disk 
controller, which requires program 
intervention to transfer each byte of 
data to or from the disk. Newer disk 
controllers use direct memory access 
(DMA) for data transfers, which is a 
virtual necessity with the increasingly 
popular double-density formats 
anyway. With a DMA-type disk con- 
troller, it becomes possible to use an 
ordinary programmed-I/O D/A con- 
verter, although a D/A converter 
that employs direct-memory-access 
I/O transfer could simplify playback- 
programming further. 

Conclusion 

By now it should be apparent that a 
simple D/A converter really is the 
ultimate audio-output peripheral for 
a computer. Any kind of sound can 
be synthesized; it is simply a matter 
of programming. Future high-speed 
processors and reasonably priced 
hard disks will allow software 
systems having both a real-time 
"draft mode" and a high-quality 
"final mode" to be implemented on 
personal-computer hardware, thus 
giving the best of both worlds. This 
will in turn give the capability of 
professional-quality music synthesis 
to anyone with the creative desire to 
do it.B 



■■■ 
T) 



he music interpreter that has 
been described is available from 
Micro Technology Unlimited, 
POB 4596, Manchester, NH 03108, 
in versions for the Commodore 
PET and for the K/M-2, SYM-I, 
and AIM-65 processors. Contact 
Micro Technology Unlimited 
about arrangements for Apple II, 
Atari, and Ohio Scientific 
machines. An audio demonstra- 
tion tape of the system is available 
for $5.00. Also available is an 8-bit 
audio D/A converter with 6-pole 
3.5 kHz filter and power amplifier. 

The programs of listings 4 and 5 
and the driving software described 
in the text were developed and 
coded by Frank Covitz and Cliff 
Ashcraft. Their addresses are: 

Frank Covitz 

Deer Hill Rd 

Lebanon N] 08833 

Cliff Ashcraft 
150 Mercer St 
Hightstown NJ 08520. . 

- ■■' -■- -:U 



References 

1. Chamberlin, Hal, "A Sampling of Techni- 
ques for Computer Performance of 
Music," September 1977 BYTE, pages 62 
thru 83. (Reprinted in The BYTE Book of 
Computer Music, edited by Christopher P 
Morgan, BYTE Books, 1979, pages 47 thru 
63). 

2. Mathews, Max, The Technology of Com- 
puter Music, MIT Press, Cambridge, MA 
1969. 

3. Moorer, J, and J Grey, "Lexicon of Ana- 
lyzed Tones: The Trumpet." Computer 
Music Journal, volume II, number 2, 1978, 
page 23. 

4. Moorer, J, and J Grey, "Lexicon of Ana- 
lyzed Tones: The Cello." Computer Music 
Journal, volume I, number 1, 1977, page 
4. 

5. Moorer, J, and J Grey, "Lexicon of Ana- 
lyzed Tones: The Clarinet." Computer 
Music Journal, volume I, number 3, 1977, 
page 12. 

6. Oppenheim, A and R Shafer, Digital Signal 
Processing, Prentice-Hall, Englewood 
Cliffs NJ 1975. 

7. Patterson, Blake R, "Musical Dynamics" 
Scientific American, November 1974, 
pages 79 thru 95. 



196 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



MULTI-USER OASIS 
HAS THE FEATURES PROS DEMAND. 

READ WHY. 



Computer experts 
(the pros) usually have big 
computer experience. 
That's why when they shop 
system software for Z80 
micros, they look for 
the big system features 
they're used to. And that's 
why they like Multi-User 
OASIS. You will too. 



DATA INTEGRITY: FILE & 
AUTOMATIC RECORD LOCKING 



The biggest challenge 
for any multi-user system 
is co-ordinating requests 
from several users 
to change the same record 
at the same time. 

Without proper 
co-ordination, the 
confusion and problems 
of inaccurate or even 
destroyed data can be 
staggering. 

Our File and Automatic 
Record Locking features 
solve these problems. 

For example: normally 
all users can view a 
particular record at the 
same time. But, if that 
record is being updated 
by one user, automatic 
record locking will deny all 
other users access to the 
record until the up-date is 
completed. So records 
are always accurate, 
up-to-date and integrity 
is assured. 

Pros demand file & 
automatic record locking. 
OASIS has it. 



SYSTEM SECURITY: 

LOGON, PASSWORD 

& USER ACCOUNTING 



Controlling who gets on 
your system and what they 
do once they're on it is the 
essence of system security. 



(THEN COMPARE.) 



Without this control, 
unauthorized users could 
access your programs and 
data and do what they like. 
A frightening prospect 
isn't it? 

And multi-users 
can multiply the problem. 

But with the Logon, 
Password and Privilege 



Level features of Multi-User 



OASIS, a system manager 
can specify for each user 
which programs and files 
may be accessed — 
and for what purpose. 

Security is further 
enhanced by User 
Accounting — a feature that 
lets you keep a history 
of which user has been 
logged on, when and 
for how long. 

Pros insist on these 
security features. 
OASIS has them. 



EFFICIENCY: 
RE-ENTRANT BASIC 



A multi-user system 
is often not even practical 
on computers limited 
to 64K memory. 

OASIS Re-entrant 
BASIC makes it practical. 

How? 

Because all users use a 
single run-time BASIC 
module, to execute their 
compiled programs, less 



memory is needed. Even 
if you have more than 64K, 
your pay-off is cost saving 
and more efficient use 
of all the memory you have 
available — because it 
services more users. 

Sound like a pro feature? 
It is. And OASIS has it. 



AND LOTS MORE. 



Multi-User OASIS supports 
as many as 1 6 terminals 
and can run in as little as 
56K memory. Or, with 
bank switching, as much 
as 784K. 



OASIS IS AVAILABLE FOR: Altos; 
Bell Controls; Billings; Compucorp; 
Cromemco; Corvus; Delta Products; 
Digital Group; Digital Microsystems; 
Dynabyte; Godbout, IBC; Industrial 
Microsystems; Konan; Micromation; 
Micropolis; North Star; Onyx; SD 
Systems; Tarbell; Thinker-toys; 
TRS 80 Mod. II; Vector Graphic 
Vorimex; X Comp; and others. 



Multi-Tasking lets each 
user run more than one 
job at the same time. 

And there's our BASIC — 
a compiler, interpreter and 
debugger all in one. 
An OASIS exclusive. 

Still more: Editor; Hard 
& Floppy Disk Support; m 
Keyed (ISAM), Direct & | 
Sequential Files; Mail-Box;| 



Scheduler; Spooler; 
all from OASIS. 

Our documentation is 
recognized as some of the 




best, most extensive, in the 
industry. And, of course, 
there's plenty of 
application software. 

Put it all together and it's 
easy to see why the real 
pros like OASIS. Join them. 
Send your order today. 



CIRCLE WHAT YOU WANT 



Product 



OPERATING SYSTEM 

(Includes: 
EXEC Language; 
File Management; 
User Accounting; 
Device Drivers; 
Print Spooler; 
General Text 
Editor; etc.) 
SINGLE-USER 
MULTI-USER 



BASIC COMPILER/ 
INTERPRETER/DEBUGGER 



RE-ENTRANT BASIC 

COMPILER/INTERPRETER/ 

DEBUGGER 



DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE 

(Macro Assembler; 
Linkage Editor; 
Debugger) 



TEXT EDITOR & 
SCRIPT PROCESSOR 



DIAGNOSTIC & 
CONVERSION UTILITIES 

(Memory Test; 
Assembly Language; 
Converters; File 
Recovery; Disk Test; 
File Copy from 
other OS; etc.) 



COMMUNICATIONS 
PACKAGE 

(Terminal Emulator; 
File Send & Receive) 



PACKAGE PRICE 

(All of Above) 

SINGLE-USER 

MULTI-USER 



FILE SORT 



COBOL-ANSI '74 



Price 

with 

Manual 



$150 
350 



500 
850 



Manual 
Only 



$17.50 
17,50 



Order OASIS from: 

Phase One Systems, Inc. 

7700 Edgewater Drive, Suite 830 

Oakland, CA 94621 

Telephone (415) 562-8085 
TWX 910-366-7139 

NAME 



STREET (NO BOX #)_ 

CITY 

STATE ZIP 



AMOUNTS 

(Attach system description; 

add S3 for shipping; 

California residents add sales tax) 

□ Check enclosed □ VISA 

□ UPS C.O.D. □ Mastercharge 

Card Number 

Expiration Date 

Signature 



BYTE April 1980 197 



Program Those 2708s! 



Robert Glaser 

3922 Algiers Rd 

Randallstown MD 21133 



Erasable programmable read-only 
memories (EPROMs) can be used to 
great advantage in many microcom- 
puter applications. One of the 
stumbling blocks to more widespread 
hobbyist use of EPROMs has been the 
difficulty of programming them. 
Several companies offer program- 
ming services, but this can be time- 
consuming as well as expensive. 

One of the first EPROMs to 
become available was the 1702 



device, which is structured as 256 
words by 8 bits. This EPROM is in- 
deed difficult to program. All of its 
address and data lines must be 
switched at 50 V levels, requiring a 
multitude of level-shifting transistors, 
in addition to the timing logic. 
Although it is possible to construct a 
programmer for the 1702, it is cer- 
tainly not simple. 

Salvation for the hobbyist came 
with the Intel 2708 EPROM. This 



device sports 1 K words by 8 bits of 
memory, four times the capacity of 
the 1702. It requires power supplies of 
+ 5 V, +12 V, and -5 V. For read 
operation, all that is required is to 
supply the address lines with the 
desired memory address, and select 
the individual EPROM device by 
grounding the chip-select input. The 
outputs appear on the data lines. 

The greatest advantage of this 
2708-type memory is its program- 




Photo 1: Front side of the EPROM programming circuit board. 
Components may be identified from diagram of figure 4. A 
Radio Shack 44-pin card forms the base of the board, which has 
had other sections added to it. TO-220 packages at 
top are voltage regulators. 

198 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Photo 2: The back side of the EPROM programming circuit 
board. The author wishes to thank Marc Leavey MD, WA3A]R 
for performing the photography. 



Circle 110 on inquiry card. 



Circle 111 on inquiry card. 



CP/M SOFTWARE TOOLS 

NEW ED-80 TEXT EDITOR 



ED-80 offers a refreshing new approach for the creation and editing of program and data 
files conversationally -and it saves you money. Its powerful editing capabilities will satisfy 
the most demanding professional -yet it can still be used by the inexperienced beginner. 
Look at These Outstanding Features: 

■ FULL SCREEN window displays with forward and backward scrolling for edit- 
ing your data a page-at-a-time, rather than line-by-line. 

■ Provides you with all the features found on the large mainframe and minicom- 
puter editors, such as IBM, UNIVAC. CDC. and DEC. 

■ Commands include forward or backward LOCATE, CHANGE, and FIND; and 
INSERT, DELETE, REPLACE, APPEND, SAVE, PRINT, WINDOW, MACRO, 
TABSET, SCALE, DUMP, and others. 

■ Compatible with existing CP/M edit and text formatted files, with CBASIC, and 
with Microsoft's MBASIC, FORTRAN, COBOL, and ASSEMBLER. 

■ CHANGE commands allow you to make conditional changes and to use vari- 
able length strings. 

■ Designed for CP/M and derivative operating systems, including LIFEBOAT, 
CDOS, IMDOS, DOS-A, ADOS, etc. 

■ GET and PUT commands for concatenating, moving, duplicating, and merging 
your edit files on the same or different diskettes. 

■ Provides you with fast memory-to-memory COPY commands, and an inter- 
mediate buffer for copying lines over-and-over. 

■ Saves your last LOCATE, CHANGE, FIND, and APPEND command for easy 
re-execution. 

■ Simple line-oriented commands for character string editing. 

■ Safeguards to prevent catastrophic user errors that result in the loss of your 
edit file. 

■ INLINE command for your character-oriented editing. 

■ Designed for today's CRT's, video monitors, and teletypewriter terminals. 

■ Thoroughly field tested and documented with a comprehensive User's Manual 
and self-instructional tutorial. 

And remember — in today's interactive programming environment — your most impor- 
tant software tool is your text editor. ED-80 is already working in industry, government, 
universities, and in personal computing to significantly cut program development time 
and to reduce high labor costs. Why not let ED-80 begin solving your text editing prob- 
lems today? ED-80 is protected by copyright and furnished under a paid-up license for 
use on a single computer system. Single Density Diskette and Manual: $99.00, or the 
Manual alone: $20 00 (credited with purchase of the Diskette). Specify Disk make/model, 
5" or 8", hard or soft sectored. ORDER NOW and we'll pay the postage! 

SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & TRAINING, INC. 
Post Office Box 451 1 — Huntsville, Alabama 35802 

MMB Dealer Inquiries Welcomed JMfe 

mmm ® CP/M is a trademark of Digital Research W 




microsystems 
There is nothing like a 

Dfiim 




A complete disk system for the Rockwell Aim 65. Uses 
the Rockwell Expansion Motherboard. Base price of 
$850 (U.S.) includes controller with software in Eprom, 
disk power supply and one packaged Shugart SA400 
Drive. 



224 SE 16th St. 
P.O. BOX 687 



AMES, I A 50010 
(515) 232-8187 




64K BYTE EXPANDABLE RAM 

DYNAMIC RAM WITHONBOARDTRANSPARENT 
REFRESH GUARANTEED TO OPERATE IN 
NORTHSTAR, CROMEMCO, VECTOR GRAPHICS, 
SOL, AND OTHER 8080 OR Z-80 BASED S100 
SYSTEMS *4MHZ Z-80 WITH NOWAITSTATES. 

* SELECTABLE AND DESELECTABLE IN 4K 
INCREMENTS 0N4K ADDRESS BOUNDARIES, 

* LOW POWER-8 WATTS MAXIMUM. 

* 200NSEC 4116 RAMS. 

* FULL DOCUMENTATION. 

* ASSEMBLED AND TESTED BOARDS ARE 
GUARANTEED FOR ONE YEAR AND 
PURCHASE PRICE IS FULLY REFUNDABLE IF 
BOARD IS RETURNED UNDAMAGED WITHIN 
14 DAYS. 

ASSEMBLED / 
TESTED 

64KRAM $595.00 

48KRAM $529.00 

32K RAM $459.00 

16K RAM $389.00 

WITHOUT RAM CHIPS $319.00 



SI 00 MAINFRAME 
AND CARD CAGE j 

* W/ SOLID FRONT PANEL $239.00 

* W/ CUTOUTS FOR 2 MINI-FLOPPIES $239.00 

* 30 AMP POWER SUPPLY $1 19.00 




VISTA V-200 MINI-FLOPPY SYSTEM 
S100 DOUBLE DENSITY CONTROLLER 
204 KBYTE CAPACITY FLOPPY DISK 
DRIVE WITH CASE & POWER SUPPLY 
MODIFIED CPM OPERATING SYSTEM 
WITH EXTENDED BASIC 

$695.00 
EXTRA DRIVE, CASE & POWER SUPPLY 

$395.00 



16K XI DYNAMIC RAM 
THE MK4116-3 IS A 16,384 BIT HIGH SPEED 
NM0S, DYNAMIC RAM. THEY ARE EQUIVALENT 
TO THE M0STEK, TEXAS INSTRUMENTS, OR 
MOTOROLA 4116-3. 

• 200 NSEC ACCESS TIME, 375 NSEC CYCLE 
TIME. 

* 16 PIN TTL COMPATIBLE. 

• BURNED IN AND FULLY TESTED. 

* PARTS REPLACEMENT GUARANTEED FOR 
ONE YEAR. 

$8.50 EACH IN QUANTITIES OF 8 



1230 UU.COUin* AVE. 

ORflOGE, CP 92666 

(714)633-7280 



KIM/SYM/AIM-65-32K EXPANDABLE RAM 

DYNAMIC RAM WITH ON BOARDTRANSPARANT 
REFRESH THAT IS COMPATIBLE WITH KIM/ 
SYM/AIM-65 AND OTHER 6502 BASED 
MICROCOMPUTERS. 

* PLUG COMPATIBLE WITH KIM/SYM/AIM-65. 
MAY BE C0NNECTEDT0PETUSING ADAPTOR 
CABLE. SS44-E BUS EDGE CONNECTOR. 

* USES +5V ONLY (SUPPLIED FROM HOST 
COMPUTER BUS). 4 WATTS MAXIMUM. 

* BOARD ADDRESSABLE IN 4K BYTE BLOCKS 
WHICH CAN BE INDEPENDENTLY PLACED ON 
4K BYTE BOUNDARIES ANYWHERE IN A 64K 
BYTE ADDRESS SPACE. 

* BUS BUFFERED WITH 1 LS TTL LOAD. 

* 200NSEC 4116 RAMS. 

* FULL DOCUMENTATION 

* ASSEMBLED AND TESTED BOARDS ARE 
GUARANTEED FOR ONE YEAR, AND 
PURCHASE PRICE IS FULLY REFUNDABLE IF 
BOARD IS RETURNED UNDAMAGED WITHIN 
14 DAYS. 

ASSEMBLED / 
TESTED 

WITH 32K RAM $419.00 

WITH 16K RAM $349.00 

WITHOUT RAM CHIPS $279.00 

HARD TO GET PARTS ONLY (NO RAMS) $109.00 

BARE BOARD AND MANUAL $49.00 




I 



He 





BYTE April 1980 199 



la 



DATA 
BUS 







OUTPUT 

PORT 

1 



ADDRESS 

LINES 



DATA 

BUS 







OUTPUT 

PORT 

2 



A 2708 A, 

) TO BE p 

W PROGRAMMED V 



n 



OUTPUT 

PORT 

3 



DS 



LEVEL 
SHIFTERS 



t 



DATA 
BUS 



lb 



ADDRESS 

BUS 



PORT SELECT 
LOGIC 



ADDRESS 
BUS 



t 







DEVICE 

SELECTION 
LOGIC 




Figure 1: Block diagrams of the 2708 EPROM programming circuit (la) and 2708 reading circuit (lb). 



ming simplicity. All address and data 
lines need only be supplied with 
transistor-transistor logic (TTL) 
voltage levels. Two lines must be 
pulsed at nonTTL voltage levels. The 
write-enable line must be raised to 
+ 12 V, and the program pulse rises 
to + 26 V. 

After erasure with an ultraviolet 
lamp, all bits of the 2708 are in the 
logic 1 state. Programming consists of 
selectively changing the Is to 0s. 
After the write-enable line is raised to 
+ 12 V, each byte is set up by apply- 
ing the address and data information 
to the proper pins, and then pulsing 
the program input. The proper 
method is to sequence through all of 
the addresses many times. Each run 
through all addresses is called a pro- 
gram loop. The specifications of the 
2708 device call for the number of 

200 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



program loops, .multiplied by the 
duration of the program pulse, to 
form a total pulse time of at least 
100 ms. 

Microcomputer 2708 
Programming 

A simple way to accomplish the 
programming is to utilize a micro- 
computer system. With a small pro- 
gram routine, several output ports 
and some level shifters, it is easy to 
program the EPROM. Figure 1 shows 
the block diagram of the circuit I use 
in my 8080 system for the program- 
ming operation. Output port 1 and 
part of output port 2 supply the ad- 
dress to the 2708 device to be pro- 
grammed. Output port 3 feeds the 
desired data to the 2708. Part of out- 
put port 2 and some level shifters pro- 
vide the programming pulses for the 



device. 

Each output port is an 8212 latch. 
The 8212 device is a general purpose 
I/O (input/output) port. The pin 
connections are shown in figure 2. 
The output of the latch is 3-state. If 
the mode input is high, the outputs 
are always enabled. When the device 
is selected by placing a low on DSl 
(active-low, device-select line) and a 
high on DS2 (active-high line), 
whatever data is present at the data 
input (DI) lines is latched and appears 
at the data output (DO) lines. 

If the mode input is low, the out- 
puts are in the high-impedance state 
until the device is selected. In this 
case, the data is latched by a signal on 
the strobe line. The 8212 places little 
loading on the data bus, and is quite 
suitable for the output ports used in 
this project. 



gooooQeptQioooaoi0QQ0>ooQOOtiooQ0O»OO8 »0tB0»»P J0gQ9Qg»»0»8m»8»00fl0»»fl0»0»^ 



TRS-80® CP/M® & CBASIC® 
BUSINESS SOFTWARE 

All MOD II CP/M s are not created equal . . . 
Find out why ours is the Better Business Buy! 

Model I CP/M (ml 1.5) $ 1 50.00 

Model II CP/M (rel. 2.0) 250.00 

CBAS1C 95.00 

APH (Automated Patient History) 1 75.00 

RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY ANALYSIS 

system 300.00 

The Genuine Article: 
Osborne & Assoc. CBASIC source programs— 

O&A Payroll w/Cost Accounting $250.00 

O&A Accts. Rec./Accts. Payable . . . 250.00 
O&A General Ledger w/Cash Journal. 250.00 
O&A CBASIC books for above (each) .... 20.00 

Send 30C SASE for CP/M Users Group software 
list & free "CP/M Primer". 

' TRS-80 is a registered trademark of Radio Shack, a Tandy company 
' CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research 
" CBASIC is a registered trademark of Software Systems 



C iV/LB \m [R IN JE IT .i^.iC. ;S (714) 848*1922 

3 8041 NEWMAN AVENUE • SUITE 208 • HUNT tNGTON BE ACH. C ALIFORNI A 92647 



i 




faflmrpflnmmnnrc^^ 




Circle 112 on inquiry card. 

TEC 
510 

$750* 



DISPLAY 

• 25 lines by 80 characters, 12" diagonal display. 

• Reverse video, blinking, underline, reduced intensity, protected fields, blank security fields. 

• Upper and lower case — 95 disptayable ASCII characters. 

• 6x8 dot matrix character format (displays descending tails for lower case characters). 
KEYBOARD 

• Typewriter layout. Sixty keys with imbedded numeric keypad. 

• Repeat key. Cursor control keys. 
INTERFACE 

• Transmit character, line, partial page, page, or unprotected data only, 

• Serial interface, RS232C, 110 - 9600 baud, full or half duplex. 
GENERAL 

• Cursor up, down, left, right, home, return, load, and read. 

• Software controlled keyboard lock/unlock. 

• Clear screen/clear memory, page or scroll mode, self test. 

• Advanced LSI design uses only 18 integrated circuits. 

• Compact, lightweight ft6"w x 13.5"h x 20"d, 33 lbs.) 
TO ORDER 

• Send certified check or money order. C.O.D.'s require a 15% deposit. 

• Personal checks require two weeks to clear. 



J 



cMJCRQMflJL 



I MICROMAIL • BOX 3297 • SANTA ANA, CA 92703 
I (714) 731-4338 



* In Quantities. 




:•: on computers, peripherals, software and other Radio Shack® products. 



NO ONE CAN GIVE YOU A BETTER 
DEAL ON TRS-80 COMPUTERS!! 

OUR Radio Shack® Merchandise is New 
and covered by Radio Shack® War- 
ranties 

WE PAY Domestic U.P.S. Shipping & In- 
surance on minimum orders 

NO TAXES are collected on out-of-state 
Shipments 

TOLL FREE Order Number 

OPEN 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., Central Time, 
Monday through Friday; 9:00 a.m. to 
6:00 p.m., Saturday 



Offered Exclusively By 



Pan American 
Electronics 



Radio /hack 

AUTHORIZED SALES CENTER 



INCORPORATED 



8 



VISA' 



1117 CONWAY MISSION, TEXAS 78572 

TOLL FREE ORDER NUMBER 800/531-7466 

TEXAS AND MAIN TELEPHONE NUMBER 512/581-2765 






MM-MMMfrMftm-M**"*^^ 



Circle 113 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 201 



DSi 



MD 



DOi 



Dl 5 



DO^ 



DO4 



STB 



GND 



[TT^Ti 


[• 


.»] 


[• 


22 


[< 


„■] 


I* 


20 


8212 

[, ,.] 


[• 


"] 


[:• 


-.] 


[■:» 


■•] 


[" 


»] 


[- 


»■] 



v cc 



INT 



D0 7 



D0 fi 



Dts 



D0 5 



DSo 



Number 


Type 


+ 5 V 


GND 


IC1 


8212 


24 


12 


IC2 


2708 


24 


12 


IC3 


8212 


24 


12 


IC4 


8212 


24 


12 


IC5 


7404 


14 


7 


IC6 


7408 


14 


7 


IC7 


7404 


14 


7 


IC8 


7427 


14 


7 


IC9 


2708 


24 


12 


IC10 


8T97 


16 


8 


IC11 


8T97 


16 


8 


IC12 


7812 


— 


— 


IC13 


7805 


— 


— 



■5 V 



21 



21 



+ 12 V 

19 



19 



Table 1: Power supply connections for integrated circuits used in circuit of figure 3. 
IC12 and IC13 are voltage regulators. 



Figure 2: Pin configuration of the 8212 
integrated circuit. This device is an 8-bit 
I/O port latch. Three of them are used in 
the EPROM programming circuit. 



The schematic diagram of the pro- 
grammer circuit is shown in figure 3. 
The 8212s ICl and IC4 provide the 
address for the 2708 to be program- 
med. The mode input of these 8212s is 
high, causing the output lines to be 
always active. The 8212 IC3 provides 
the data byte to the 2708. The mode 
line is low, causing the outputs to be 
in the high-impedance state until the 
chip is selected. The reason for this is 
that the 2708 data lines are outputs 
until the 2708 is placed into the pro- 
gram mode. 



NOW, FROM MOUNTAIN HARDWARE. 

THE 100,000 DAY CLOCK. 



WPStfi ^W^^W&rff^B^- 



Put your S-100 Computer 
on the clock. 

A real time clock could double the 
utility of your computer. Time events 
in 100ju,S increments for up to 100,000 
days (over 273 years). Program events 
for the same period with real time 
interrupts that permit pre- 
programmed activities to take 
place... without derailing on-going 
programs. Maintain a log of computer 
usage. Call up lists or appointments. 
Time and date printouts. Time events. An 
on-board battery keeps the clock running in 
the event of power outage. 
Mountain Hardware also offers a complete line 
of peripheral products for many fine computers 




s 




Available at your dealer's. Now. 

Mountain Hardware, Inc. 

300 Harvey West Blvd. 
Santa Cruz, CA 95060 (408)429-8600 



Under program control, the 8212 
latch IC3 provides data to the 2708. 
ICl supplies the low 8 address lines, 
and is set up for hexadecimal output- 
port address 14. IC4 is at hexadecimal 
output port address 15. 

Bits and 1 (DOi and D0 2 on the 
output of IC4) supply address bits A8 
and A9 for the 2708. Bit 7 from IC4 is 
the 2708 program pulse, bit 6 is the 
write-enable line, and bit 5 enables 
the data from the 8212 latch 1C3. IC3 
is set up for hexadecimal output-port 
address 16. The system reset pulse 
clears IC4, placing critical signals in 
the off mode. 

To program a 2708, the integrated 
circuit package is placed into the pro- 
gram socket, and the circuit board is 
inserted into the 8080 mainframe. 
The 8080 system may then be 
powered up, and the program run. 
The 26 V power supply should be 
turned on just prior to supplying the 
address to the program. 

It is important not to apply the 
high voltage before the system is 
powered up and reset. After pro- 
gramming, the sequence should be 
followed in reverse. The 26 V supply 
should be turned off, the computer 
turned off, the board unplugged, and 
the 2708 removed. 

To read what has been written into 
EPROM, the device is plugged into 
the read socket. Hexadecimal address 
0000 is used. If you already have an 
EPROM board which can read 2708s, 
then this portion of the circuit can be 
deleted. The inhibit line prevents the 
2708 from being selected. 

Construction 

Construction will depend upon 
your particular system. My 8080- 
based system was built using 44-pin 
edge connectors. This permits the use 

Text continued on page 206 



202 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 114 on inquiry card. 



Circle 115 on inquiry card. 



Circle 116 on inquiry card. 



ruiMESMon 



T.M. 



KEYED FILE 
MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS 

for CBASIC and Micnopolis BASIC 

Developing business applications in BASIC? 

Then you have felt the need to create, retrieve, and update your data by user 
defined keys. MAGSAM provides this plus much much more. . . 

• Random, sequential, and generic access by key 

• Secondary indexing with any number of keys 

• Key and record deletes with automatic space reclamation 

• Dynamic file allocation and extension 

• Complete compatibility with BASIC files 

• Easy to use — initiated through simple BASIC statements 
In use world wide. MAGSAM is now better than ever! 

New! MAGSAM IV™ for CP/M-"- and CBASIC — High performance 
8080 assembler version of the highly acclaimed MAGSAM III. Same powerful 
features with up to 60% faster access time. Ideal for serious business 
applications where response time is critical $295/S25t 

New! MAGSAM III™ for Micropenis — Now Micropolis BASIC users can 
have all the powerful features and capabilities of MAGSAM III. Save 
development time while providing more sophisticated applications. Perfect for 
all business applications SI 45 /$1 5f 

Improved! MAGSAM III for CP/M and CBASIC — MAGSAM III 

Release 4.0 provides all standard MAGSAM features plus — increased 
performance: enhanced tutorial program and file utilities; improved data 
integrity; plus a new memory-saving read-only module $1 45/51 5 1 

Visa and Mastercharge welcome Dealer and OEM inquiries invited. 

t MAGSAM package pnee/manual only price Single CPU license MAGSAM package includes 
MAGSAM file manager, tutorial program, file dump utility, read-only module (MAGSAM III only), 
User Guide. Reference Card, and one year update service CBASIC versions require CBASIC and 
CP/M -compatible DOS MAGSAM III distributed as BASIC source MAGSAM IV distributed in 
object form CBASIC versions available on 8" and Micropolis Mod II disks Micropolis version 
available on Mod II disk 
-;:- Registered trademark of Digital Research 



RJIMB 



^ MICRO APPLICATIONS GROUP 

7300 CALDUS AVENUE 
VAN NUYS, CA 91406 



Z s - SYSTEMS 



■ itettiii 
liilill 
I tiiiiii 



64K RAM BOARD 



The Zs-SYSTEMS 64K RAM 
board is designed to operate 
in any Z80 based microcom- 
puter having S-100 bus. It 
uses 16K dynamic RAM chips, 
& features: 

— Board select 

— Bank select 

— Transparent on-board 
refresh 

— 2 or 4MHz operation 
(w/ no wait state) 

— Memory disable 

FLOPPY DISK 
CONTROLLER 

Handles with no modification 
up to: 

* 4 standard 8" drives 
(Shugart or compatible) or 

* 3 minidrives 5" 

Run with 2 or 4 MHz CPU 



Compatible with Cromemco 
and M/PM multiuser. Fully 

assembled, burned in, & 

tested. Available from stock 

to 60 days 

As low as $500.00 in 

quantities of 100 

Price of one .... $695.00 

PC board only $59.00 

With 16K RAM ..... $359.00 
Plus shipping charges 




Use CP/M Disk Operating System 
Using the 1771 LSI controller 

Price of one $245.00 

PC board only $35.00 



SEND FOR FREE INFORMATION 

6 months warranty on our boards with normal use 

Zs-SYSTEMS 

PO Box 1847, San Diego, CA 92112 
(714) 447-3997 



HEATH® COMPATIBLE 




DG-32D 32K RAM FEATURES: 

^ Plugs into Heath R H8 Computer. 

v* Ready to use. Fully assembled, tested & 

burned in. 

Operates with existing Heath " memory. 

Protected memory Output Buffers in the 

event of Address error. 

Utilizes popular 41 16 RAM devices. 

Memory Address DIP switch changeable, 
*^ Arranged as 4 Independent 8K Blocks. 
\* Low Power Consumption: Less than 6 watts, 

typical. 
** Transparent Refresh. 
\* One year guarantee. 
V Compatible with all current H8 peripherals. 






** 
V 



D«G Electronic Developments Co. 
brings you a totally compatible, fully 
assembled and tested 32K RAM for 
Heath" H8 computers. The DG-32D 
has less than 6 watts power con- 
sumption. This allows you to add a full 
32 K bytes of Random Access Mem- 
ory without taxing or replacing your 
computers power supply. Engineer- 
ed to plug-in and run without any user 
modifications, the DG-32D can be 

Heath " and H8 are registered trademarks of the 
Heath Corporation, Benton Harbor. Michigan. 



used with or without existing H8 RAM 
without modification. Protection of 
the memory output buffers is provid- 
ed in the event of assigning two 
blocks to the same address space. 
The DG-32D is the ideal answer to 
expansion of the Heath" H8 com- 
puter. . . Low power consumption, 
low price, high capacity, total engi- 
neering and exacting production 
methods. 

BURNED IN 16K MEMORY CHIP SET 
H88-H89 $89.00 



ORDERING INFORMATION: DG-32D RAM available only from DG Electronic Developments Co.. P.O. Box 
I 124, 1827 South Armstrong, Denison. Texas 7 5020. Check, money order, VISA or Master Charge. Phone 
orders accepted on charge orders. NO COD s. Foreign orders add 30%, Texas residents add 5%. For VISA 
or Master Charge orders call 2 14-465-7805. $479.00 freight prepaid. Allow three weeks for personal 
checks to clear banks. 



□•B 



ELECTRONIC 
DEVELOPMENTS CO. 



32KRAM $479 



Circle 117 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 203 



2 



>n 








00 




1 




m 




to 




Ui 


DO 


^5 

n 


01 


8r 




3 


D2 


a 


D3 






n 


D4 


Sl 




& 


D5 


0q 




i 


D6 


3 


07 


o 












a* 




i 




Kj 




XI 




o 




00 




T3 




s 


DO 


0q 


01 


a 




3 


D2 


3 


D3 


3 




n 


D4 


n 




| 


D5 


c 


D6 






^ 


D7 


*->■ 




2. 




as 




as- 




a 


RESET 


3 




(S 





-17V 
UNREGULATED 



17V 
UNREGULATED 




Circle 118 on inquiry card. 



Circle 119 on inquiry card. 



General Ledger 

Payroll 

Accounts Receivable & Payable 



Flexible and sophisticated business software that is 
among the highest quality on the market. Originally 
developed by OSBORNE & ASSOCIATES and rapidly becom- 
ing a standard. Our service is support. We will send you 
these programs with the proper I/O and CRT specific 
subroutines for your hardware configuration. Get back to 
business and leave the programming to us. Include hard- 
ware description with order. 

• Accounts Receivable and Payable 145.00 

• Payroll (California) 145.00 

• Non California state tax calculations 

(please inquire) 15-250.00 

• General Ledger 145.00 

• Multiple profit center option for G/L 25.00 

• Manuals (each) 20.00 

All programs in CBASIC under CP/M (includes source) 
UTILITIES 

• DOS MOVER for NORTH STAR. Moves DOS and BASIC 
anywhere you want it. (i.e., from 2A00 to 0000) 35.00 

• ALS-8 MOVER on North Star Disk 35.00 



Synergetic Computer Products 

3885 Magnolia Drive • Palo Alto, CA 94306 

(415)856-6049 

Visa • Mastercharge • COD • Certified Check 

CP/M is a trademark of Digital Research 



DECLSM1 
Components 



Dependable service 
at discount prices 

Domestic 
and Export 



Hlrl 




I I III II ^u~ w vv VV V 

Computer Suppliers, Inc. 

25 Chatham Rd. ( Summit, N.J. 07901 
Since 1973 

(201) 277-6150 Telex 13-6476 

©Mini Computer Suppliers, Inc. 
1979 




BUILD YOUR COMPUTER BREADBOARDS 

& INTERFACES FASTER AND EASIER 

WITH MEW VECTOR PLUGBORDS 

EASY TO USE! COST EFFECTIVE! CLEAN HOLES! 






4609 



HBBB 





lilis 



ill 

p(^8MtonieGmpanij 



4610 Series - For STD- 
BUS-WW, solderable and 
unpatterned models 

4608 Series - For Intel/ 
National SBC/BLC 80-WW/ 
solderable, or unpatterned 

8804 Series - For SI 00 - 
5 models available 

4607 - For DEC LSI 11/ 
PDP8-11, Heath H-11 

4609 - For Apple II, 
SuperKim, Pet Commo- 
dore with Expandamem 



4350 

puter 



For Tl 980 Com- 



INCORPORATED 

12460 Gladstone Ave., Sylmar, CA 91342 (213) 365-9661 TWX (910) 496-1539 

Available through Distributors or Factory Direct if not available locally. 



Circle 120 on inquiry card. 



74801 

BYTE April 1980 



205 



TRS-80 

Software for 

Investors 

Supplement your stock 
market trading strategy with 
our new technical analysis 
package. 

• Price cycle forecasting by 
time series analysis 

• Moving averages 

• Volume analysis 

• Momentum analysis 

Also available portfolio bookkeep- 
ing. Send for detailed information. 

Ampero Software Products 
5230 Clark Ave., Suite 12A 
Lakewood, CA 90712 



Circle 121 on inquiry card. 



STATIC RAM CHIPS 

CJIPTflDV DDIMC Frofn ^ same shipment we use in our 
rftU lunl rnllflC professional quality boards. 

21 14L 450ns. $5. 90 200ns. $6.90 
4044 450 ns . . $5.90 250 ns . $6.90 

Add $5.00 Handling on Orders Under $200.00 

32K STATIC RAM BOARD 

FOR THE SS50 AND SS50C BUS (SWTP etc.) 

• SS50C Extended Addressing (can be disabled). 

• 4 separate 8K blocks. 

• Low power 21 14L RAMS (2 AMPS Typical for 32K). 

• Socketed for 32K 

• Write Protect 

• Gold Bus Connectors 

16K $328.12 

24K $438.14 

32K $548.15 

Phone, write, or see your dealer for details and prices on our 
broad range of Boards and Systems for the SS5Q7SS50C bus 
including our UNIQUE 80x24 VIDEO BOARD, and our AC 

Power Control Products for all computers. ^^^ 

Gimix <& 

1337 W. 37th Place • Chicago, I L 60609 
(312)927-5510 • TWX 910-221-4055 

The Company that delivers. 

Quality Electronic products since 1975, 

fflMDC* and GHOST 8 are Registered Trademarks of GIMIX INC. 



Circle 122 on inquiry card. 



GET. Paid^ 

for using your 
Computer *§ 

FUN-' Easv gS3x> 

RUSH COUPON FOR ^6» 
FREE FACTS 

gb^sparetime wsnafJi 



Send today to — DAR-B4 mmmm 
31 1 Fulton Ave, Sacramento CA 95821 




Circle 123 on inquiry card. 

April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



TT 



IC13 
7805 



IC12 
7812 



IC6 
7408 




IC5 
7404 




IC7 
7404 




IC8 
7427 




IC11 
8T97 





IC10 
8T97 




w 




W 


IC2 




IC9 


2708 




2708 


(PROGRAM) 




(READ) 



Figure 4: Diagram of component placement on the circuit board. The board itself has 
been assembled from three sections. 



Text continued from page 202: 

of inexpensive Radio Shack circuit 
boards. For the more conventional 
S-100 bus configuration, many wire- 
wrap boards are available. I used a 
combination of point-to-point wiring 
and wire-wrap. The layout is shown 
in figure 4. The only required voltage 
not commonly found in microcom- 
puter systems is the -+-26 V. I connect 
a suitable power supply to the board 
when it is needed. 



Programming Program 

The program is set up as a 
subroutine (shown in listing 1). To 
satisfy the requirements for the 2708, 
I chose to go through 256 program 
loops, each lasting at least 0.5 ms. 
The subroutine MSG prints the 
message at ADMS, which asks for the 
address in memory where the data to 
be programmed into the 2708 is to be 
found. It is assumed that 1 K bytes of 



Circle 124 on inquiry card. 



Circle 125 on inquiry card. 



w 




OSBORNE 
BUSINESS SOFTWARE 

in CBASIC2 or CROMEMCO 16K BASIC 



* features * 

Four Complete Packages— 

• General Ledger 

• Accounts Receivable 

• Accounts Payable 

• Payroll with Cost Accounting 
Strong support from Osborne Manuals 
CBASIC2 runs under CP/M or under CDOS 
version 1.07 on Cromemco computers 
16K BASIC runs on Cromemco computers 
Cursor addressing routines for Hazeltine, 
Lear Siegler and Cromemco (Beehive) 
Terminals 

Source Codes and Installation Instructions 

provided along with disks 

Automatic Command Start-up 

Easy to apply to all of your business and 

systems needs 



hardware required * 

One or more 8" or 5" Floppy 

Drives 

CRT with cursor addressing 

132-Column Printer 



*95 



per 
package 



TO ORDER 

Md $5 lor <, hipping 
Calrtaddb-W* Saltan 
CREDIT CARDS MTEPTED 



• DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED* 



MICAH'S PRODUCTS OF DISTINCTION 


• OSBORNE BUSINESS 
SOFTWARE (in CBASIC2 
& 16K) 

• CHIOS (CP/M lor 

Cromerruo Computers! 

• MIC ROPIOT (Versaiile 

Printer Graphics! 


• DUP/1 (Duk Utilities 

lor CP/M and CDOS) 
. DUP/2 (Disk Utilities for 
Cromemco) 

• DUP/1 (DUP/2 Expanded) 

• SPOOL (Cromemco 

format Utility) 


• EXPAND (Run Cromem- 

co Software on CP/M) 

• BLACKJACK (Tutorial 

Casino Action) 

• DRIVE (Customised 

Printer Drivers) 

• DBMS Conversion to NAD 



• Call or Write for Free Catalogue and More Information • 
* We will Customize any of our programs at our Standard Consulting Rates * 

Ah! MICAU Satisfying Software 

That turns your system on! 

MICro Applications and Hardware 

• CONSULTANTS and SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS • 

— MIC AH Box 22212 San Francisco, California 94122 USA phone: 415/664-0778 — 



It 



si 



CONTROL THE WORLD 
THROUGH A EIA RS-232C PORT 

ALI has designed a new control system that uses a standard serial port to communicate to over 
1000 output points and read over 1000 input points. With this system you can now control relays, 
lights, motors, 0/A, and sense photo eyes, voltage, switches, A/D, keyboards and a lot more. All 
this control over a single RS-232C link! All it takes is a standard RS-232C port and one or more ALI 
control modules, per your I/O requirement. Up to 225 modules can be connected to a single EIA 
RS-232Cport. 

The modules consist of an I/O CONTROL COMMANDER by itself or in conjunction with one of the 
specific I/O interface boards. Each 1/0 CONTROL COMMANDER has 8 TTL inputs and 4 TTL out- 
puts, plus all of the circuitry necessary for proper address decoding and communications timing. 
Each CONTROL COMMANDER is crystal controlled for hignest accuracy and reliability. Baud rate is 
selectable from 150 to 9600 baud. 

Various peripherals can be plugged into the I/O CONTROL COMMANDER to handle specific I/O 
functions ASSM KIT 

WO CONTROL COMMANDER $149 $129 

• 8 TTL inputs 

• 4 TTL outputs 

• 150 to 9600 Baud 

• Crystal controlled 

RELAY INTERFACE 120 98 

• 4 2A, 120V AC relay outputs 

• 4 5V-120V AC or DC opto-isolated inputs 

UNIVERSAL I/O, KEYBOARD DISPLAY INTERFACE 190 152 

• Up to 16 character display 

• Up to 32 digits display 

• Up to 64 individual inputs 

• Sense full ASCII keyboard 

• Up to 128 individual outputs 

ALPHA NUMERIC DISPLAY 179 155 

• 16 Alpha numeric displays 

• Mates with UVKD 

THUMBWHEEL SWITCH UNIT 165 145 

• 8 Digits BCD inputs 

• 32 Bits TTL input 

• Mates with UVKD 

As you can see from the above description, you can mix and match modules to meet your specific 
requirements. All this and more over a single RS-232C link. The above is only a brief summary of 
the available options. 
TO ORDER CALL OR WRITE: 

AL INDUSTRIES 

15 Algonquin Trail, Oakland, N.J. 07436 

(201) 337-2030 
N.J. Residents add 5% sales tax • Dealers Inquiries Invited 



m 



LOW COST 40 & BD 
COLUMN IMPACT PRIIMTE 





MODEL 101A-40 
COST $ 325.00 

MICROPROCESSOR CONTROLLED 

IMPACT PRINTER 
5X7 DOT MATRIX 
96 ASCII UPPER/LOWER 

CASE CHARACTERS 



MODEL 101B-80 
COST $ 465.00 

PARALLEL & SERIAL INTERFACE 
110 to 9600 BAU DRATE 
IIOCPS-ONE LINE PRINT RATE 
MANUAL SELF TEST 



CoosoL, Inc. 
P.O.Box 743 Anaheim, Ca. 92805 



(714) 545-2216 



Circle 126 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 207 



Listing 1: 8080 subroutine for programming the 2708 EPROM using the circuit described in this article. With minor changes, this 
routine can be used to program 2716 devices also. 



Line Address Object Code 



Label 



Op Code 



Operand 



1 
00 2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

18 

19 

2 

2 1 

2 2 

2 3 

2 4 

2 5 

2 6 

2 7 

2 8 

2 9 

3 

3 1 

3 2 

3 3 

3 4 

3 5 

3 6 

3 7 

3 8 

3 9 

4 

4 1 

4 2 

4 3 

4 4 

4 5 

4 G 

4 7 

4 8 

4 9 

5 

5 1 

5 2 

5 3 

5 4 

5 5 

5 6 

5 7 

5 8 

5 9 

6 

6 1 

6 2 

6 3 

6 4 
% 









3 
6 
9 
A 
c 
E 
11 
12 
14 
15 
17 
18 
19 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
2 
2 
2 4 
2 5 
2 6 
2 7 
2 9 
2 B 
2 C 
2 D 
2 F 
3 2 
3 3 
3 5 
3 6 
3 8 
3 9 
3 B 
3 C 
3 F 
00 4 
4 3 
4 4 
4 6 
4 7 
4 7 
4 7 
4 7 
4 9 
4 B 
4 D 
4 E 
4 E 
4 E 
4 E 
4 E 
4 E 
4 E 
4 E 



2 1 
CD 
CD 
EB 
6 

E 
2 1 
7 D 
D3 
7 8 
E6 
B4 
4 7 
D3 
E5 

1 9 
7 E 
E 1 
D3 


00 


7 8 
F0 
D3 
AF 
3C 
FE 
C2 
7 8 
E 6 
4 7 
D3 

2 3 

3 E 
BC 
C2 
C 
C2 
AF 
D3 
C9 



4 1 

4 4 

3 F 





4 7 

7 9 

8 5 

6 





1 4 
FC 



1 5 



1 6 



8 
1 5 



2 A 
2C 

7 F 

1 5 

4 



1 5 



4 4 

5 2 
2 



PROGRAM FOR PROGRAMV1I 
ROBERT GLASER, 1*1/7 7 



Comments 

NG 2708 PRO MS 




ED 
ED 











11 
E 





ORG 







LXI 


H, AD MS 




CALL 


MS G 




CALL 


GHXW 




XCHG 


* 




MVI 


B . 6 H 




MVI 


C, ; 


LOOPS: LXI 


H. 


L O O P C : MO V 


A. L 




OUT 


ADDL 




MOV 


A , B 




ANI 


0FCH 




OR A 


H 




MOV 


B . A 




OUT 


ADDH 




PUSH 


H ; 




DAD 


D ; 




MOV 


A . M ; 




POP 


H 




OUT 


DATA 




NOP 






NOP 






NOP 






NOP 






NOP 






MOV 


A , B 




ORI 


8 H 




OUT 


ADDH ; 




XRA 


A 


WAI T 


: I NR 


A 




CPI 


4 2 




J NZ 


WAI T ; 




MOV 


A, B 




ANI 


7 FH 




MOV 


B A 




OUT 


ADDH ; 




I NX 


H 




MVI 


A, 4 




CMP 


H 




J NZ 


LOOPC 




I NR 


C 




J NZ 


LOOPS 




XRA 


A 




OUT 


ADDH ; 




RET 




AD MS 


DW 


' DA 




DW 


' RD' 




DW 


' ? ' 




DB 





MS G: 


EQU 


E D 7 9 H 


GHXW 


: EQU 


ED8 5 H 


ADDL 


EQU 


1 4 H 


ADDH 


EQU 


1 5 H 


DAT A 


EQU 


1 6 H 



S TART ADDH TO DE 
LOOP COUNT 



SAVE PROGRAM A D D R 
GET D\TA A DDR 
GET DATA 



PROGRAM PULSE 



WAI T . 5 MS 



REMOVE PROGRAM PULSE 



BACK TO READ MODE 



data are to be written into the 
EPROM from that starting point. If 
the 2708 is to be only partially writ- 
ten, the unused portion of source 
memory should be filled with the 
hexadecimal value FF. 

Subroutine GHXW gets the 16-bit 
value which is input in hexadecimal, 
and places it in register pair HL. The 

208 April 1980 © BYTE Publications foe 



starting address is then moved to DE. 
Throughout the program this remains 
the same. Register pair HL contains 
the actual address applied to the 
2708. 

LOOPS (loop start) is the begin- 
ning of a program loop. At LOOPC 
(loop continue) the cycle begins. First 
the address is set up at ports ADDL 



and ADDH. The data is then fetched 
and output at the DATA port. 
Several no-operation instructions are 
included to guarantee the timing 
specifications of the 2708. 

The program pulse is then applied, 
and a timing loop of 0.5 ms is entered 
at WAIT. The program pulse is 
removed, and the current address is 



HOW TO GET THE 




COMPUTER CONFERENCE 




This year's National Computer Conference will feature more to 
see, more to learn, more to enjoy than ever. Over 1,400 exhibits. . . 95 
learning sessions. . . a personal computing festival. . . professional 
development seminars. . .a special mini-conference on computers 
in entertainment, and much more. Be a step ahead. Pre-register 
now and: 

• avoid registration lines at the Conference 

• save $15.00 on the full four-day program 

• receive your own personal printout, highlighting areas of spe- 
cial interest to you 

• be eligible for preferential housing 

Mail in the coupon to receive your NCC '80 pre -registration forms, 
Step on it. 

Circle 271 on inquiry card. 



To: AFIPS, 1815 North Lynn Street, Arlington, VA 22209 

□ Please send me pre -registration, housing, and travel 
information forms for NCC '80. 



NAME. 



CO.. 



ADDRESS. 
CITY 



STATE. 



.ZIP. 



Anaheim Convention Center 
May 19-22 1980 



NCC '80 



BYTE April 1980 209 











2716 






TO BE 






PROGRAMMED 




19 


A10 
PROG 

CS V PP 






8 




18 




D0 3 
D0 8 


21 




+ 2, 
4 






20 


21 






+ 5V 


i 




IC4 




8212 




















ko.l/iF 




Figure 5: Modifications to the circuit of figure 3 that enable the programming of the 
2716-type EPROM. Modifications to the software are also necessary. 



Out of sight 

savings 
opportunity 



Does your paycheck seem to vanish 
as soon as you get it? 

The Payroll Savings Plan where you 
work will take a little something from 
each check and buy Bonds, before 
you have a chance to make the rest 
disappear. 

Soon, you'll see big savings right 
before your eyes. Savings to help you 
and America, too. 

So use some foresight. Buy United 
States Savings Bonds. 



Now E Bonds pay 6% interest when held 
to maturity of 5 years (4!-j% the first year). 
Lost, stolen or destroyed Bonds can 
be replaced if records are provided. When 
needed, Bonds can be cashed at your 
bank. Interest is not subject to state or local 
income taxes, and federal tax may be 
deferred until redemption. 



210 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 




Thke 
. stocky 
ln^merica. 

Join the Payroll Savings Plan. 



examined to see if a program loop is 
finished. If not, the control loops 
back to LOOPC. If the loop is finish- 
ed, the loop count is checked to see if 
all 256 loops have been completed. If 
not, control goes back to LOOPS. 

When the procedure is finished, the 
2708 is returned to the read mode, 
and the routine returns to the calling 
program. To be on the safe side, 
timing values are longer than neces- 
sary. With the 8080 running at 2 MHz 
with one wait state, the routine takes 
3 minutes and 6 seconds. 

Variations 

Other EPROMs could be program- 
med with this setup, as well as 2708s. 
By changing the value 4 to a 2 in line 
42 of the program, 2704s can be pro- 
grammed with no other modifica- 
tions. To program 2716s, some other 
modifications need to be made. The 
2716 is a 2 K word by 8 bit EPROM 
and has some advantages over the 
2708. It requires only a +5 V supply 
for read operation. For program- 
ming, the program pulse need only be 
a TTL level voltage. The high voltage 
is not pulsed. 

Figure 5 shows the necessary cir- 
cuitry changes to accommodate the 
2716. The high voltage applied to pin 
21 is +25 V, not the +26 V used for 
the 2708. Pin 19 is the eleventh 
address line. 

The 2716 needs only a single pro- 
gram loop, but the program pulse 
should be 50 ms or longer. The pro- 
gram should be modified. Delete lines 
11, 45, and 46. The value 4 in line 42 
should be changed to an 8, and the 
delay loop at WAIT should be sur- 
rounded by an external loop of 100 to 
change the 0.5 ms to 50 ms. 

To use non8080 systems for pro- 
gramming the EPROM, all that need 
be done is to reconcile the buses. For 
6800-type systems with no discrete 
output ports, the output ports would 
have to be addressed as memory. 

I have programmed dozens of 
2708s with this setup and have had no 
problems. My application has been 
with dedicated 8080 controllers. One 
such controller is used in the local 
amateur radio repeater to perform 
various functions. Many program 
versions were used in this applica- 
tion, since control and autopatch 
codes are all contained in the pro- 
grammable read-only memory, 
which led to many program revi- 
sions. The 2708 programmer board 
was called upon many times. ■ 



Circle 129 on inquiry card. 



GOMOKU 



Can you find black's best move in the 
board position on the right? 



Our program can. (Black plays on the 
points marked 1 thru 7). 



Five Stones Software announces a 
Gomoku program for North Star 
Horizon DOS and CP/ M based sys- 
tems. The program has been written 
by the current North American 
champion and has the following 
features. 



. book of openings with 200 entries 

. fast response to a four being played 

. ability to take back moves 

. 19 x 19 board 

. blinking of last move by computer 

. carriage return not necessary for most moves 

. recent moves displayed along with board 

. ability to customise to different screen sizes. 



1«*r^ 



CPEFGHJKLMfjQPQR 




ABCDEFGHJKLMNOPQRST 



The program requires a mini- 
mum of 32K bytes of RAM, 
Z-80 CPU, and is available for 
North Star or CP/M on double 
density 5 1/4" 10 sector disk- 
ette for S29.95, Visa or Master- 
charge accepted. For more in- 
formation contact 



Address 

City 

State 



□ Master Charge 
D Visa 



□ TRS-80 (on cassette) 

□ CP/M (origin 1 0OH) 
D North Star 

Credit Card Number 



Five Stones Software 



P.O. Box 1369, Station B, 
Ottawa K1P 5R4, Canada 



CP/M is a trademark of 
Digital Research 

Gomoku 29.95 

Ontario residents add 7% tax 

Canadian residents add 9% lax 

TOTAL 



| ( HAKT.KX | 



II II II 










1 1 1 


INTERBANK NO FOR 
MASTER CHARGE 












| SIGNATURE 


Ex 


pnal 


onD 


.,. 


MONTH |VR. 



Micro Computer 



Your One Stop For. . .Quality and Huge Savings 



DISCOUNT 



Company 



COMPARE PRICE^QUALITY^CDELIVERY^LSERVICE 
you'll know why you don't have to look anywhere else! 



ATARI 

400 * «9 

800 795 

Disk 639 

APF ELECTRONICS 

APF Computer $ 495 

CENTRONICS PRINTERS 

730-1 Parallel $ 879 

730-1 Serial 927 

*779-2 Tractor 1935 

*704 Serial 1895 

•753-1 2595 

COMMODORE PET 

8K"N" $ 795 

Plus $90 Free Merchandise 

16K H N"or"B" 995 

Plus $130 Free Merchandise 

32K "N" or "B" 1295 

Plus $170 Free Merchandise 

2040 Floppy 1295 

Plus $170 Free Merchandise 

2022 Printer (Tractor) 795 

Plus $100 Free Merchandise 

C2"N" Cassette add $89.90 

MAIL ORDER ONLY 



COMPUCOLOR 

8K $1595 

16K 1660 

32K 1795 

CROMEMCO 

System 3 $5445 

Z-2H 9445 

HAZELTINE 

1210 - $ 825 

1500 - 1095 

INTEGRAL DATA 

440 (Paper Tiger) $880 

440-Graphics 945 

1NTERTEC 

SuperBrain 32K - $2495 

SuperBrain 64K 2695 

NEC SPINWRITER 

•5530 RO $2695 

'5520KSR 2990 

•5510 RO 2795 

Tractor add 200 

PERKIN-ELMER 

550 Bantam $ 895 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 

99/4 Computer $1039 

810 Printer 1695 

XEROX TERMINALS 

•1740RO $2613 

•1740KSR 3069 

•1750 RO 2716 

Tractors add 215 

Telephone (212) 986-7690 



Send Certified Check (Personal or Company Checks require 2 weeks to clear.) 
We pay all shipping and insurance charges except items marked with asterisk. 
VISA, Master Charge add 3% N.Y.S. Residents add appropriate sales tax. 

Micro Computer Discount Co IgSSf o'E'Kra 

60 E. 42nd St., Suite 411. New York, N.V. 10017 __7™~? r "°- " YK -> 



Sirius Systems introduces lower 
prices to quality drives! -- — 




Remex RFD 4000/8" 
Floppy Disc Drive 
Double the storage! 
Double sided . . . 
Double density!! 

549* 

Offers quality and features found in drives costing 
much more! ■ Single or Double Density ■ Double-Sided Drive ■ Door 
Lock INCLUDED ■ Write-Protect INCLUDED ■ 180 Day Warranty 
■ Compatible with Shugart 850/851 ■ Low Power Operation ensures 
LONGER LIFE!! ■ Model RFD 4001 offers Data and Sector Separator 

AVAILABLE OPTIONS/ACCESSORIES 

□ Dual Drive Power Supply H Single Drive Power Supply and Cabinet, $1 1 9.95 

and Cabinet, $139.95 Q Interface Manual, $2.95 

Q RFD 4000 Manual, $5.95 □ Drive Cabinet, $29.95 □ RFD 4001, $564.95 

SIRIUS 

The Perfect 
Add-On for 
your TRS-80* 

• Comes complete 
ready to plug in 
and run! 

• 5ms track to track 




SIRIUS80+1 jfrQj^fV 
'(Single Head) ^W"l %# 

SIRIUS 80+2 (Dual Head) $419.95 

•TRS-80© Tandy Corp. 



MPI -51/52 

A Great 
Reliable 
Mini-Drive! 

• Fast! 5ms track 
to track access 

• Exclusive Pulley- 
Band Design 

• Unique Doorf Ejector Mechanism 

• Reliable 1 % % Speed Stability 



Remex 1000B 
If you've been looking for a 
less expensive floppy disc 
drive, but not wanting to 
sacrifice quality — 
your search is over! 

419 95 



VOLUME 

DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE 



You get both in the Remex 1000B! For only $419.95 look at what you get: 
8" Floppy Drive ■ Single or Double Density ■ Hard or Soft Sectoring ■ 
Media Protection Feature ■ Single Density Data Separator ■ 180 Day 
Factory Warranty 

AVAILABLE OPTIONS/ACCESSORIES 

□ Door Lock , $19 . 95 Q Dual Drive Power Supply, $91 95 Q Interface Manual , $2 95 

□ Write-Protect, $19.95 Q Single Drive Power Supply, $69.95 □ Interface Adapter, $12.95 

□ Connectors, $9.95 Q Drive Cabinet, $24.95 (Remex to Shugart) 




j mm 



mpi-51 COCQ95 

(Single Head) y£99 
MPI-52 (Dual Head) $349.95 



SIRIUS 
SYSTEMS 



P Box 9746. Knoxville. TN . 37920 

Phone Orders accepted 9AM-7PM (EST) 615/577-1072 

□ Check D Money Order rjC.O.D qmC D VISA QAE 



JOTT 



CARD # 



ADDRESS 



EXPIRATION DATE 



CITY 



STATE" 



"TTP— CARDHOLDERS SIGNATURE 



Circle 130 on inquiry card. 



Add $7 00 per Drive for Shipping/Handling Tennessee residents add 6% sales tax Foreign orders 
add 10% (payment in US currency only) I 

BYTE April 1980 211 



Apple Audio Processing 



Mark A Cross 

Physics Department 

Grambling State University 

GrambHng LA 71245 



Tired of poking single tones into 
your speaker? The Apple is capable 
of talking or playing several notes 
simultaneously. It can be done in one 
evening from very simple homebrew 
interfaces. 

There are at least three ways to get 
speech out of an Apple. The APPLE- 
TALKER program by Bob Bishop ac- 
cepts voice from the cassette input, 
processes and stores the data, and 
then pokes it to the internal speaker. 
A second way is to use a voice syn- 
thesizer built on a plug-in card, such 
as the one made by Mountain Hard- 
ware. The third method is described 
in this article. 

The references give the theory 
behind the methods of analog-to- 
digital (A/D), input, data storage, 
digital-to-analog (D/A), and output. 
They emphasize high sampling rates. 
Yes, it would be best to sample the 
input at 100 kHz and store it with 
12-bit accuracy to create a high- 
fidelity computer. This is needed for 
music, but we are accustomed to 
sloppy speech. We can sample speech 
at 2000 Hz, store the data, and send it 
out to a 4-bit digital-to-analog con- 
verter. This reproduces speech which 
sounds very similar to that repro- 
duced by a tape recorder! 

Audio Input 

The Apple has four game paddle 
inputs. These generate a count from 
to 255 in response to a resistance from 
to about 130 k ohms. The internal 
circuit shown in figure 1 has a 553 
timer which discharges the 0.022 /*F 
capacitor in response to a LDA $C070 
instruction. Then a software counter 
runs while the capacitor is charged by 



the +5 V supply at a rate set by the 
paddle resistance. When the capa- 
citor reaches a trigger voltage, the 553 
changes state and the counter stops. 
The program sequence used to create 
the counter is as follows: 

label mnemonic operand comment 



LDA 


$C070 


Discharge capacitor 


LDY 


#00 


Initialize count. 


NOP 






NOP 






READ LDA 


$C064 


Check status of 553 
timer. 


BPL 


DONE 




INY 






BNE 


READ 




DEY 







DONE 

The execution time of this subrou- 
tine is a function of register Y. It takes 
the time t = 16 + (10 X Y) fis to exe- 
cute. Suppose that Y = 7. Then the 
rate of cycling through the counter is 
f = 1/t or approximately 11,600 Hz, 
minus overhead for storing the data. 
Speech at 100 to 1000 Hz is well 
within this sampling rate. Low fide- 
lity music is also possible. 

Figure 2 shows how to build a very 
simple amplifier that will convert an 
audio input into a variable resistance. 
The microphone should be a moving 
coil type. About 10 mV will be gen- 
erated by the inexpensive micro- 
phones that used to be included with 
cassette recorders, or you can simply 
talk into a loudspeaker. The input ca- 
pacitor should be 0.1 jiF or more, 
nonpolarized. If the input capacitor is 
too small then it will block most of 
the input. The transistor is any NPN 
type out of a spare parts box (such as 
a 2N2222). 

'I used a 2 M ohm potentiometer for 
the base resistor. It will be adjusted 



later to allow for variations between 
transistors. You might want to in- 
clude a 100 k ohm fixed resistance in 
series with the variable 2 M ohm 
resistance to prevent adjusting the 
base resistance to zero and destroying 
the transistor. 

The base resistance allows a small 
current to flow that is amplified by 
the transistor to make a larger collec- 
tor current. Both currents flow 
through the emitter to charge the in- 
ternal 0.022 fi¥ capacitor. Thus, the 
steady state of this imitation game 
paddle can be set by adjusting the 
base resistance. When you apply a 
small AC voltage from the micro- 
phone, the base current changes. This 
in turn changes the paddle's effective 
resistance. 

The input circuit can be built on a 
16-pin socket as suggested on page 
118 of the Apple II Reference Manual 
(the red book). It is difficult to adjust 
the resistance R and capacitance if 
you do this. You can also connect 
two wires from pins 1 and 6 of the 
game paddle connector and build the 
amplifier on a breadboard. 

Check out the amplifier in BASIC 
while running line 10 of listing 1 
below. Adjust R to get a steady 7 or 8 
paddle reading, for the fastest samp- 
ling. (Half of fifteen, for the 4-bit out- 
put to be used, equals the DC level 
before the you start talking.) A range 
of at least 4 units (8 is most desirable) 
change in PDL (0) caused by your 
speech is needed. Yell into the mike 
and hit control-C. You will get more 
gain by adjusting the base resistance 
to be larger, or by increasing the 
input capacitor value. 

Text continued on page 216 



212 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 131 on inquiry card. 



Circle 132 on inquiry card. 



ANNOUNCING: 



NEW! 



MICROSTAT 

A complete statistics package for business, scientific, 
education and research work. No other package has 
the features of MICROSTAT. For example: 

File oriented with COMPLETE editing 

A Data Management Subsystem for editing, sort- 
ing, ranking, lagging, data file transfers PLUS 11 data 
transformations (e.g., linear, reciprocal, exponential, 
etc.) • Frequency distributions • Simple and multiple 
regression • Time series (including exponential smooth- 
ing) »11 Non-parametric tests • Crosstabs/Chi-square 

• Factorials (up to 1,000,000!), permutations, combinations 

• 8 Probability distributions • Scatterplots 

• Hypothesis test (Mean, proportion) • ANOVA 
(one and two-way) • Correlation • Plus many 
other unique features 

Users manual: $10.00 (credited towards purchase) 
and includes sample data and printouts. Uses 
NORTH STAR BASIC 32K of memory, one or two disk 
drives (2 recommended). Printer optional. Price: $200.00 

1 ECOSOFT 

"" W ^^ ww" ■ phQne Qfders 

P.O. Box 68602 rt .,i* M . M . 



■[master charge] 



THE INTERBANK CARD 



Indianapolis, IN 46268 



(317)253-6828 



CATCH THE 

S- 100 INC. 
BUS! 



Complete Microcomputer System 
factory assembled and tested 
with all necessary cables, 
including DOS and Basic. North 
Star Horizon II double density 
w/32K of RAM, Intertec 
Intertube II U/L case, and 
Anadex DP-8000 Printer, U/L 
case. 
Imsai VIO-C Video Board Kit 
Shugart SA-400 Dual Density Bare 
Drive 



S-IOD /£\ , 



LIST 
PRICE 



OUR 

SPECIAL 

CASH 

PRICE 



5,185.00 
325.00 



,100.00 
277.00 



450.00 295.00 



Subject to Available Quantities • Prices Quoted Include Cash Discounts. 

Shipping & Insurance Extra. 

We carry all major lines such at 

S.D. Systems, Cromemco, IMSAI, Vector Graphic, North Star, 

Sanyo, ECT, TE1, Godbout, Thinker Toys, Hazeltlne, IMC 



For a special cash price, telephone us. 

bus S-IOO,inc. 

Address 7 White Place 

Clark, N.J. 07066 
Interface .... 201-382-1318 



PRESENTING 

THE MOST UNIQUE INFORMATION MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 

YOU CAN BUY. NOT JUST A DATABASE MANAGER. EASILY 

CREATE A COMPLETE, STAND-ALONE, MENU DRIVEN 

APPLICATION IN HOURS 

THE CONFIGURABLE BUSINESS SYSTEM™ 



• No Programming Experience Necessary 

• User Definable Records Up To 2K Bytes 

• Powerful Report Generating Capabilities 

• Built-in, Self-reorganizing ISAM File Structure 

• Interactive and Batch Information Processing 

• Packed Fields For Efficient Disk Utilization 

• System Completely Menu Driven 

• Fast Execution - All Programs in 8080/Z80 Machine Code 

• Easily Configured to Your CRT 

• Field Proven 

• Comprehensive Users Guide 

• Supplied On 2-8" CP/M* Compatible Disks 



Dealer Inquiries Invited 
•CP/M is a Trademark of Digital Research Corp. 



Phone Orders Accepted 
N.Y. Residents Add 7% Sales Tax 



DISKS AND MANUAL $295.00 
MANUAL ALONE ... $ 40.00 



DYNAMIC 

MICROPROCESSOR 
ASSOCIATES 

36 Pinewood Drive 
Commack, N.Y. 11725 




(516) 543-6006 



Circle 133 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 213 



Listing 1: Integer BASIC routines for testing the audio-input interface and manipulating 
the stored data. The routine starting on line 1000 produces a record of different numbers 
in the raw data. Note the minimum and maximum for later use. Lines 2000 thru 2080 
scale the waveforms into the range to 15. First, the minimum is subtracted from every 
data point to shift it down to 0. Then the wave is either clipped or compressed to bring 
the maximum down to 15. Lines 3000 thru 3050 send the audio data to the output trying 
all possible delays. The routine starting at line 4000 compresses the data by discarding 
every other data point. Lines 5000 thru 5040 show how to call the input subroutine. 



►LIST 

10 
900 
1000 
1010 
1020 
10 30 
10 40 
1050 
1060 
1070 
1900 
1990 
20 00 
2010 
2020 
2030 
2040 
2050 
2060 
2070 
2080 
3000 
3010 
3020 
30 30 
3040 
3050 
3900 
3990 
4000 
4010 
4020 
4030 
4900 
5000 
5010 
5020 
5030 
5040 



R= PDL (0) 

PIN 6 EXTERNAL 



INTERNAL APPLE 



REH STUDY THE AUDIO DATA 
B0tN< I >«0t NEXT I 

to 122871 rem audio data 
):n<x)=n<xhi: next i 

NCI} NC 20 + 1) N(40fl) 
19 

20 H ),N<40H >,N< 60 i I ) 



I 



PRINT PDL <0)t GOTO 10 1 REM TEST THE INPUT AMPLIFIER 

REM 

DIM NC80 >-.: 

FOR 1=0 TO 

FOR 1-2816 TO 12287: REM AUDIO DATA AREA 

X- PEEK ( I 

PRINT "I NC 204-1) N(40fl) N<60 + I)' 

FOR 1=0 TO 

PRINT l*Ui I )vN< : 

NEXT U END 

REM 

REM INPUT THE SPEECH DATA 

FOR 1*0 TO 80JN<I)«0I NEXT 

INPUT "MINIMUM DATA " yMIN 

INPUT "MAX DATA " rttftX 

FOR 1=2816 TO 12287 

X- PEEK ( I )-MIN 

X = X*15/< MAX- HIN >t REM COMPRESSING 

IF X>15 THEN X-15J REM CLIPPING 

NCX)*N<X')+i: POKE I,X 

NEXT It GOTO 1040 

input "turn on amplifier and press return, 

for delay-0 to 255 

print delay 

poke 2561.0: poke 2562 9 12 

26 1 2 9 delay: call 2560 

delay: end 



> 100 



553 
QUAD 

TIMER 



; 0022/iF 



m 



Figure 1: A representation of the paddle 
input system used by the Apple II com- 
puter. 



PIN I 

+ 5V 

A 



r 



2M 



DY DISCARDING HAL F 
HALF OF DATA AREA 



POKE 

NEXT 

REM 

REM COMPRESS THE DATA 

X = ( 12287-2016 )/2X REM 

FOR 1=1 TO X 

POKE 2816+1 > PEEK (2814*2*1) 

NEXT i: END 

REM 

REM CALL INPUT SUBROUTINE 

INPUT "HIT RETURN WHEN READY TO TALK* 1 

POKE 2325*0 : POKE 2326*11 

POKE 2346*0 : POKE 233?* 48 

POKE 2321*13: CALL 2304: END 



OF IT 



MICROPHONE 

O.I^F 

)\— 



€> 

NPN 



6 



FROM PIN 6 

Figure 2: A microphone and simple 
amplifier can be added to the Apple pad- 
dle connector and used to input audio in- 
formation. The program in listing 2 is 
used with this circuit. 




8086 Boards 

CPU with $650. 

Vectored Interrupts 
PROM-i/O $495. 

RAM $395. 

8K x 16/16K x 8 



ANALOG Boards 

A/D 16 Channel, $495. 
12 Bit, High Speed 

D/A 4 Channel, $395. 
12 Bit, High Speed 





VIDEO 
DIGITIZATION 

Real Time Video $850. 

Digitizer and Display 
Computer Portrait 
System $4950. 



S-100 Boards 

Video and/or Analog 
Data Acquisition 
Microcomputer Systems 



BII 



HR 



INC. * 

The High Performance S-100 People 

TECMAR, INC. 

23414 Greenlawn • Cleveland, OH 44122 
(216) 382-7599 



214 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 134 on inquiry card. 



Circle 135 on inquiry card. 



Circle 136 on inquiry card. 



THINK SMAL 

WITH HELP FROM YOURDON PRESS 



STRUCTURED MICROPROCESSOR PROGRAMMING, by M. 

Krieger, C. Popper, R. RadcIifTe, and D. Ripps, is a highly read- 
able text that presents structured programming concepts, instruc- 
tions for 8080/8085 microprocessors, and SMAL/80, a structured 
macro-assembly language for 8080/8085 microprocessors. The 
book is valuable both to hardware experts having little program- 
ming experience and to those programmers who are familiar with 
higher-level languages but who need an introduction to micropro- 
cessor assembly language and a better understanding of the link 
between programs and hardware. The programming tools relate 
to practical problem solving on increasing levels of sophistication. 
ISBN: 0-917072-18-9; 240 paxes; $18. 

SHIPPING INFORMATION: Residents of California, New York, and 
Washington states, please add applicable sales tax. The price includes 
book rate shipping; for first-class handling, add 15%. Canadian and foreign 
orders in U.S. funds only. 

Knelosed is SI 8 for Sinn fitted Microprocessor Programming. 
D I am also interested in C Notes: A Guide to the C Programming Language 
by C.T. Zahn. Unclosed is SI 5 for my copy. 

Please send me information about your other publications. 

Name __. 

Company - .... 

Business or Home n 

Address 



City. State, Zip __ 

Business l or Home □ 
Telephone ( ) 



byte4/80 
Yourdon Press 
1133 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10036 



NO FRILLS! NO GIMMICKS! JUST GREAT 

DISCOUNTS 

MAIL ORDER ONLY 



HAZELTINE 

1400 $ 549.00 

1410 750.00 

1420 795.00 

1500. .. 875.00 

1500(Kit) 850.00 

Modi Edit 1295.00 

CENTRONICS Special 

700-2 1095.00 
Micro Printer 325.00 

DEC 

LA34 1075.00 

NORTH STAR . 

Horizon I assembled ] 

■K'l > 20°/ 

Horizon II assembled | ^h ° 

kit ) UTI 
XYMEC 
HY-Q1000 Daisy 

Printer 2295.00 
INTERTEC 

Superbrain 2595.00 



DIGITAL SYSTEMS 


Computer 


S4345.00 


Double Density 




Dual Drive 


2433.00 


1 hLtVIDbO 

912 


775.00 


920 . 


850.00 


OKIDATA 




SL160 


2395.00 


CP110 


995.00 


CROMEMCO 




System III $1000 off 5990.00 


TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 


810 Printer 


1595.00 


ATARI 800 


795.00 


ADDS Regent 25 


CALL 


Optima Cabinets 




(New) 


99.95 


5" Scotch Diskette 


Box/34.95 


8" Scotch Diskette 


Box/39.95 



Most items in stock for immediate delivery. Factory-fresh, sealed cartons. 

DATA DISCOUNT CENTER 

Box 100 135-53 Northern Blvd., Flushing, New York 11354, 212/465-6609 

N.Y.S. residents add appropriate Sales Tax. Shipping FOB N.Y. 
I BankAmericard. Master Charge add 3%. COD orders require 25% deposit 



*jgfl **** I- racet computes 4j DISK SORT MERGE 'DSM'for mod i and mod ir trs-so™ 

Nnuf unn ran enrt an flRIf riicUotto 

-FAST 



FAST 



Now you can sort an 85K diskette 
in less than 3 minutes* 

Perfect for your multi-diskette RANDOM file mailing lists, inven- 
tory, etc. Ideal for specialized report generation. Sort, merge or 
combination. All machine language stand-alone package — 
Efficient and easy to use. No separate key files required! Physical 
records are rearranged on diskette! Supports multiple sub records 
per sector including optional sector spanning. Sorts on one or 
more fields — ascending or descending. Sort fields within records 
may be character, integer, and floating-point binary. Provides 
optional output field deletion, rearrangement, and padding. 
*Sort timings shown below are nominal times. Times will vary 
based on sort and system configurations. Nominal times based 
on Mod I 48K 4-drive configuration, 64 byte records, and 5 sort keys. 
TYPE FILE SIZE SORT TIME TYPE FILE SIZE SORT TIME 

(Bytes) (Sec) 

340K 1081 

680 K 2569 

85KSORT + 1757 

1275K Merge 

DSM for Mod I (Minimum 32K, 2-drives) $75 On-Disk 
DSM for Mod II (Minimum 64K, 1 -drive) $150 On-Disk** 

Mod II Development Package $100** 

Machine Language SUPERZAP, plus Editor/Assembler and 
Disassembler patches. 
Mod II Generalized Subroutine Facility 'GSF $50** 

**For Mod II Programs, Include Mod II DOS diskette with order 
For Development Package, also include copy of Apparat 
NEWDOS + 5% diskette. 





(Bytes) 


(Sec) 




SORT 


16K 


33 


SORT 


SORT 


32 K 


49 


SORT 


SORT 


85K 


173 


SORT and 


SORT 


170K 


445 


MERGE 



CHECK, VISA, M/C,C.O.D. 

Calif. Residents add 6% 

Telephone Orders Accepted (714) 637-5016 



oo BASIC for Level II and Disk Systems $49.95 

Full MATRIX Functions — 30 BASIC commands! ! 

Mathematical and common matrix functions. Change arrays in 

mid-program. Complete array handling. Tape array read and write, 

including strings. Common subroutine calls. 

Over 50 more STRING Functions as BASIC commands!! String 

manipulation, translation, compression, copying, search, screen 

control, pointer manipulation and utility functions. Includes 

multikey multivariate machine language sorts. Load only machine 

language functions that you want! Where you want in memory! 

Relocating linking loader! More than you ever expected! ! 

oo BUSINESS (Requires Infinite BASIC) $29.95 

20 Business oriented functions including: 

Printer Automatic Pagination with headers and footers! 

Packed Decimal Arithmetic ( + ,-*,/) 127 digits! 

Binary array searches and hash code generator! 

COMPROC Command Processor for Disk Systems $19.95 

Auto your disk to perform any sequence of DOS commands, 

machine language loads, BASIC, memory size, run program, 

respond to input statements, etc. Single BASIC command file 

defines execution! Includes auto key-debounce, screen print and 

lower case software driver. 

REMODEL + PROLOAD Specify 16, 32, or 48K Memory $34.95 

REnumber any portion or all of BASIC program. MOve any portion 

of program from one location to another. DELete program lines. 

MERGE all or any portion from tape. Save and verify portion or 

all of combined merged programs to tape. 

GSF (Specify 16, 32, or 48K) $24.95 

18 Machine language routines. Includes RACET sorts. 

TRS-80 IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF TANDY CORPORATION 



WHEN ORDERING PLEASE 
ADVISE PUBLICATION SOURCE 



Jr- RACET computes -3 

702 Palmdale, Orange CA 92665 



Circle 137 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 215 



Text continued from page 212- 

BASIC cannot sample the game 
paddle fast enough to follow sounds. 
The program in listing 2 will do that. 
Hexadecimal locations 0900 thru 0912 
loop indefinitely waiting for the user's 
initial voice input. When the paddle 
count reaches (THRESH + 1) 
(THRESH is threshold to start re- 
cording data), the rest of the program 
begins sensing and storing data. The 
user can insert a delay loop at hexa- 
decimal 093E to wait between data 



Listing 2: 6502 assembly-language pro- 
gram to drive the audio-input interface. 
This reads the voice data from a micro- 
phone connected to a game paddle. The 
data is stored in locations START thru 
END. When ENDHI equals 48 (decimal), 
then LOMEM-.12289 will put all BASIC 
work above the audio data area. There 
are several adjustable parameters: 
THRESH: threshold to start recording 
data. Should be 2 or 3 units above the 
steady state, no-speech PDL(O). 
STARTLO, STARTHl: start of the data 
storage area. ENDLO, ENDHI: = 
LOMEM — 1: end of audio area. 



0900- 


AD 


70 


CO 


LDA 


$C070 


090 3- 


A0 


00 




LDY 


ttOO 


0905- 


EA 






NOP 




0906- 


EA 






NOP 




0907- 


AD 


64 


CO 


LDA 


$ C 6 4 


090A- 


10 


04 




BPL 


$0910 


090C- 


C8 






I NY 




090D- 


DO 


F8 




BNE 


$0907 


090F- 


88 






DEY 




0910- 


CO 


10 




CPY 


#$10 


0912- 


30 


EC 




BHI 


$0700 


0914- 


8C 


00 


0B 


STY 


$0600 


0917- 


EE 


15 


9 


INC 


*0915 


091A- 


DO 


03 




BNE 


$091F 


091C- 


EE 


16 


09 


INC 


$0916 


091F- 


AD 


16 


09 


LDA 


$0 916 


0922- 


C9 


30 




CMP 


#130 


0924- 


30 


08 




BHI 


$092E 


0926- 


AD 


15 


09 


LDA 


$0915 


0929- 


C9 







CMP 


1$00 


092B- 


DO 


01 




BNE 


$092E 


09207 


60 






RTS 




092E- 


AD 


70 


CO 


LDA 


$C070 


0931- 


A0 


00 




LDY 


#$66 


0933- 


EA 






NOP 




0934- 


EA 






NOP 




0935- 


AD 


64 


CO 


LDA 


$C064 


0938- 


10 


04 




BPL 


$0?3E 


093A- 


C8 






INY 




093B- 


DO 


F8 




BNE 


$0935 


093D- 


88 






DEY 




093E- 


4C 


14 


09 


J MP 


$0914 


0941- 


FT 






??? 




0942- 


00 






BRK 




0943- 


00 






BRK 




0944- 


FF 






??? 




0945- 


FF 






??? 




0946- 


00 






BRK 




0947- 


00 






BRK 




0948- 


FF 






??? 





points and get more (but lower qua- 
lity) speech into memory. 

A standard 16 K byte memory 
holds one or two words of good 
quality speech. You can adjust the 
base resistance in the amplifier to 
make a large steady PDL (0) value of 
50 or more and thus sample the input 
more slowly. "Row, row, row your 
boat gently down the stream" will fit 
in, but the rest of the song might be 
too noisy if compressed into 16 K 
bytes. 

Processing 

After the waveform data is stored 
in memory it can be easily improved, 
condensed, or distorted. Try the 
short programs in Tom O'Haver's 
article (see references). Keep in mind 
that the 4-bit output requires all data 
to be in the range to 15. 

The routines in listing 1 can be used 
to scale, compress, and output the 
data. 

Output 

The game connector has four an- 
nunciator outputs. These are com- 
patible with the 4-bit digital-to- 
analog converter shown in figure 3. 
Build it on the socket that the input 
amplifier is connected to. 

The idea of using a resistor net- 
work for digital-to-analog conversion 
is discussed by Hal Chamberlin (see 
references). The minimum resistance 
here is 5 k ohms so that the maximum 
current drawn from the annunciator 
outputs will be 1 mA. High-precision 
resistors are not necessary. The 
digital-to-analog conversion trun- 
cates the fifth bit, which introduces a 
3% error. Five -percent tolerance 
resistors will do. 

The capacitor in figure 3 filters out 
high-frequency noise. The noise 
comes from truncation to 4 bits, from 
delays between taking samples of the 
audio input, and from not changing 
all 4 bits of the digital output simul- 
taneously. A larger capacitor on the 
output will filter out more noise, but 
it will also attenuate the signal, thus, 
you will have to turn up the 
amplifier's gain. A better low-pass 
filter would help. 

The output software is shown in 
listing 3. It fetches a byte of wave- 
form data, sends it to the digital-to- 
analog converter, increments and 
tests the memory pointer, waits for a 
delay, and then fetches another byte 
of data. 



GAME I/O 
CONNECTOR 



O.I>F 



-)h 



40K PIN 15 
20K PIN 14 

(OK PIN 13 
5K PIN 12 



TO AMPLIFIER 



^> 



GROUND 



Figure 3: This simple 4-bit digital-to- 
analog (D/A) converter, along with 
listing 3, is used to output information 
created by the circuit shown in figure 2 
and the program shown in listing 2. 



Listing 3: 6502 assembly-language pro- 
gram that sends audio data to the 4-bit 
digital-to-analog (D/A) converter. 



*AO0LL 












0A00- 


AD 


00 


0B 


EDA 


$0BO0 


0A03- 


6A 






r*i r\ r; 
K U i\ 




0A04-- 


B0 


OS 




BCS 


$ H h 


OA06- 


8D 


58 


CO 


St A 


$£058 


OA09- 


90 


04 




BCC 


$0A0F 


OttOB- 


8D 


5? 


CO 


r*-r a 

CJ t R 


*C059 


0AOE- 


EA 






NOP 




0A0F- 


6A 






RGR 




0A10- 


B0 


05 




BCS 


$oa;L7 


0A12- 


8D 


C* A 

jm 


CO 


STA 


$C05A 


0A15~ 


90 


04 




BCC 


$0A1B 


0A17- 


8D 


5B 


CO 




$C05B 


0A1.A- 


EA 






NOP 




0A1B- 


6A 






RGR 




061.C- 


B0 


F5 




BCS 


$ A 1 3 


0A1E- 


80 


5C 


CO 




*C05C 


0A21- 


90 


04 




BCC 


$0A27 


0A23- 


pi t> 


5D 


CO 


£5 f A 

b 1 M 


$C0 5D 


0A26- 


EA 






NOP 




0A27 »■• 


6A 






RGR 




0A28- 


B0 


05 




BCS 


$$A2F 


0A2A-- 


8D 


5E 


CO 


STA 


$C0 5E 


0A2D~ 


90 


4 




BCC 


$ A J 3 


0A2F- 


8P 


5F 


CO 


STA 


$€0SF 


0A32- 


EA 






NOP 




0A33- 


A 2 


:l.E 




LBX 


#$1E 


0635- 


CA 






BEX 




0A36- 


DO 


FB 




BNE 


$ V A 3 7> 


0A38- 


EE 


1 


0A 


INC 


$0A0i 


0A3B 


DO 


03 




BNE 


I0A40 


0A3D- 


EE 


02 


A 


INC 


■I-0A0 2 


0A40- 


AD 


2 


0A 


EDA 


$0A02 


0A43- 


C9 


30 




CMP 


t#30 


0A45- 


DO 


05 




BNE 


$0A4C 


0A47- 


AD 


t 


OA 


EDA 


00'AOl 


0A4A- 


C? 







CMP 


f $0 


0A4C- 


DO 


B2 




BNE 


$0A00 


0A4E- 


60 






RTS 




0A4F™ 


00 






BRK 




0A50- 


FF 






??? 





216 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 275 on inquiry card. 



TRS-80 



750J ?I&ETE 



The world's most popular microcomputer, with 16K of 
memory and Level 1 1 basic for only $750, complete with 
full 90 day Radio Shack warranty. We accept check, 
money order or phone orders with Visa orMasterCharge. 
(Shipping costs added to charge orders). 
Disk drives, printers, 
peripherals, software 
and games . . . you 
name ft, we've got it 
(Both Radio Shack & 
other brands). Write 
or call for our 
complete price list. 



Shown is Level I. 
Level II includes 
Alphanumeric keypad. 




C&S 

ELECTRONICS MART 



Ltd. 



AUTHORIZED 
DEALERSHIP 



Radio /hack 



32E.MainStreet#MNanMichigan48160#(313)439-1400 



Business Software 
in Micropolis Basic 

DATASMITH announces the availability of two 
new turnkey business systems designed 
especially for MICROPOLIS-Based computers, 
including the VECTOR MZ. Both systems are 
completely menu driven and highly interactive, 
so they can be used effectively by your present 
office staff. 

• GENERAL LEDGER. Everything you need 
to keep the books. Features easy-to-use 
data entry and error correction, trial bal- 
ance, posting, and a variety of comprehen- 
sive reports. Automatic error detection 
keeps the books in balance. Writes checks 
and makes journal entries in one operation. 

• PAYROLL A very flexible system that 
adapts to a wide variety of needs. Features 
federal, state, and local tax calculations, 
EIC credit, and special pay and deduction 
amounts. Prints all necessary reports, pay- 
checks, and W-2 forms. 

Put your computer to work with these compre- 
hensive systems now. Call or write for complete 
details. Custom services also available. 

DflTflSMJTH 

1 5501 West 1 09th St., Lenexa, KS 6621 9, (91 3) 888-8486 




SAVE PRODUCTS FOR I RS'OU 



The largest family 

of disk drives from 

the largest supplier, 

drives come 

complete with 

power supply and 

cabinet. 

TF-Pertec FD200, 40 track, use both sides $382 

TF-3 Shugart SA400, 35 track, same as tandy $389 

TF-5 MR B51, 40 track t $379 

TF-70 Micropolis, 77 track with 195K of storage $639 

TDH-1 Dual sided drive, 35 track $499 

iMAX^DISCTWO* 

Maxi Disk 2: 10 Megabyte (fixed) $5349 

Winchester Technology . 

77 tracks of Stor age includes new DOS- 

PRINTERS 

DP800 Anadex, 80 column, 112cps $950 

LP779 Centronics 779 $1099 

LP730 Centronics 730 $950 

LP700 Centronics 700-1 $1495 

LP701 Centronics 701-1 $1 759 

LP702 Cenfronics702-2 $1995 

SPW-1 Spinwriter-NEC $2495 

NEW! LINE PRINTER 
BASE 2 

Base 2 Printer 80, 132 col., graphics A 

60 LPM with tractors . $599 

* DRIVES FOR ANY MICROCOMPUTER* 

Does not include power supply & cabinet. 
MOD II DISK DRIVES NOW AVAILABLE 

Perfec FD200 $282 

Perfec FD250 (dual head) $399 

Shugart SA400 (unused) $286 

Shugart SA800 $479 

MPI B51 $279 

MPI B52 $349 



SOFTWARE 



New DOS+ with over 200 modifications and 

corrections to TRS-DOS $99 

New DOS* 40 track $110 

AJA Word Processor $75 

AJA Business Program . . $250 

Racet Infinite Basic $49.95 

Disk Drive Alignment Program . . $109 

Radix Data Base Program $99.95 

Electric Pencil $150 

ALL PRICES CASH DISCOUNTED. FREIGHT FOB/FACTORY 
IM M\C$OCQMP\IER l^\ 

lilJlliNc H cTO PATED i '—^ipparat, Inc. 



3304 W. MacArthur 

Santa Ana, CA 92704 

(714) 979-9923 

Circle 140 on inquiry card. 



Circle 139 on inquiry card. 



7310 E. Princeton Ave. 

Denver, CO 80222 

(303) 756-7275 

Circle 141 on inquiry card. 

BYTE April 1980 217 



Conclusion 

The speech quality produced by 
this method is relatively good. Most 
music doesn't turn out very well 
when the high frequencies are filtered 



out. I tried 'The Star Spangled Ban- 
ner" from the article by Hal 
Chamberlin. The music was tolerable 
but my simple capacitor filter let 
through too much high-frequency 



Memory Locations 
Decimal Hexadecimal 


Usage 


0-2047 000-07FF 

2048-2303 0800-08FF 

2304-2559 0900-09FF 

2560-2815 OAOO-OAFF 

2816-LOMEM 0B00-LOMEM 

LOMEM-HIMEM 


System usage 

Blank 

Input subroutine 

Output subroutine 

Audio data storage 

BASIC 


Table 1: Memory map for speech input and output routines. 



2a Address 

Hexadecimal Decimal 



0911 
0915 
0916 
0923 
092A 



2321 
2325 
2326 
2339 
2346 



Variable 
Name 

THRESH 

STARTLO 

START HI 

ENDHI 

ENDLO 



Suggested 
Value (Decimal) 

13 



11 

48 lor 16 Kbytes 





2b Address 

Hexadecimal Decimal 



0A01 
0A02 
0A34 



2561 
2562 
2612 



Variable 
Name 

STARTLO 

STARTHI 

DELAY 



Suggested 
Value (Decimal) 



11 

47 



Table 2: Tables of variable locations and values. Table 2a lists the location and 
suggested value of several constants that must be specified within listing 2; 
table 2b does the same for listing 3. In both cases, the constants are stored 
within the body of the listing. 



VERY LOW COST WINCHESTER 
BACKUP... AND MORE 

Tape And/Or Hard Disk Winchester Subsystem 
For The S- 100 Bus 

Korean's new DAT-100 Single Board Controller 
will accommodate the DEI 15Vz megabyte (for- 
matted) cartridge tape drive as well as the 
Marksman Winchester disk drive by Century Data. 

The DAT-100 "hardtape" system is the only 
logical way to provide backup for ' 'Winchester" 
type hard disk systems. (Yields complete hard 
disk backup with data verification in 20-25 
minutes.) 

Konan's HARDTAPE™ subsystem is available 
off the shelf either as a complete tape and disk 
mass storage system or an inexpensive tape or 
disk subsystem. 

And software! Most popular software packages 
supported including FAM0S™, CP/M® version 
2.0,andMP/M. 

Call Konan's TOLL FREE ORDER LINE today: 
800-528-4563 

Or write to Konan Corporation, 1448 N. 27th 
Avenue, Phoenix, AZ 85009. 
TWX/TELEX 9109511552 



CP/M 1 * 1 is a registered trade name of Digital Research. 
FAMOS™ is a trade name of MVT Micro Computer Systems, 
HARDTAPE™ is a trade name of Konan Corporation. 




noise (reference 3). 

An 8-bit digital-to-analog con- 
verter can be built. I did so, but found 
that it resulted in no significant audi- 
ble difference for speech. Such an 
option might be advantageous only if 
you are interested in high-fidelity 
music reproduction. 

The main problem is the available 
memory which limits the amount of 
audio information that can be stored. 
Slower sampling can store more data, 
but this introduces too much noise 
when the sampling rate falls below 
1000 to 2000 Hz. You can double up 
and store 2 units of data in 1 byte of 
memory. I have been able to get 
phonemes (eg: single letter sounds) 
compressed to 256 bytes of memory 
on the average. 

The input routine in listing 2 could 
be improved. The routine now spends 
less time sampling low-amplitude 
inputs and more time sampling high- 
amplitude inputs. There should be 
another counter that waits during a 
variable interval depending on the 
input amplitude, which is indicated 
by register Y. 

You can change the amplitude of 
the waveforms. Either divide all the 
data by 2 in BASIC, or insert an extra 
rotate right (ROR) instruction in the 
output routine just before the data 
gets to the digital-to-analog conver- 
sion section. The speech is still in- 
telligible when it is cut down to 2 or 3 
bits of data! A better output routine 
would have a parameter to choose 
full, 3 / 4 , Va, or Va amplitude. (Of 
course this won't work when the 
audio amplifier is a tape recorder 
with automatic level control.) 

A minimum set of compressed 
phonemes needs about 10 K bytes (for 
40 phonemes,each occupying 256 
bytes) of memory. Room is left over 
for BASIC programs or extra 
phonemes. With variable pitch and 
amplitude, you can accent syllables 
in words. Variable pitch plus extra 
long vowels could effectively make a 
singing Apple! ■ 



References 

1. Chamberlin, Hal, "A Sampling of Tech- 
niques for the Computer Performance of 
Music," September 1977 BYTE, page 62. 

2. Ciarcia, Steve, "Talk to Me," June 1978 
BYTE, page 142. 

3. Cross, Mark, "Apple Organ," a program 
based on reference 1. 

4. O'Haver, Tom, "Audio Processing with a 
Microprocessor," June 1978 BYTE, page 
166. 



218 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 142 on inquiry card. 



Circle 143 on inquiry card. 



Lowest Prices on Computers (800-421-8045) 



Nobody, but nobody, undersells Olympic Sales on computers and 
calculators. Our pledge: We will beat any advertised price as long 
as our competitor has the goods on hand. Call today. 



Apple II 

personal 

computer. 




APPLE 

Apple II — world's best selling personal compu- 
ter. 16K. With or without controller. We carry the 
full-line of Apple products. For unprecedented 
lowest price ever, call us. 



ATARI 

The personal computers more and more people 
are wanting. Atari 800— console, BASIC card, 
Education system master cartridge, cassette re- 
corder. TV modulator. 8K expandable to 48K. 
power supply. Atari 400— the personal computer 
system for I ess. for lowest prices on Atari, call us. 



OHIO SCIENTIFIC 

If OS makes it, we have it. Computers— all four 
models .accessories , software. Call tor best prices 



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 

TI-99/4— powerful TI-BASIC; up to 

72K; graphics, music and sound; 
13" color monitor. Optional solid 
state Speech " Synthesizer. For the 
best deal anywhere, callus. 



HEWLETT-PACKARD 



Model 

HP-41CScient 

CardReader/41C 

Pnnter/41C 

HP-34CSoent 

HP-67Scient Prog 

HP-97 Scient Print 



Your Cost 
S244.95 
159 95 
28995 
124 95 
29995 
579 95 



APF 

The "Imagination Machine" with 
built-in sound synthesizer. Call for 
our new low price. 



COMMODORE PET 

Tell us what you need. 



MATTEL 

The lntellivision. rw We carry all ac- 
cessories. Call tor the best deal. 



Call Olympic Sales for the best prices in the country. Don't forget to ask for the 
lowest prices anywhere on SEIKO watches. We carry over 320 models. Ask for 

prices on products from Casio-Sharp-Canon-Victor-Sanyo-Pearlcorder-Polaroid- 
RCA-Sony-Panasonic-Amana-Litton-Navtronic-Juvenia and others. Nobody under- 
sells Olympic Sales. 

Prices are f.o.b. LA. Add $4.95 for shipping handheld calcs in U.S.A. CA residents 
add 6% sales tax. We will beat any advertised price if the competition has the goods 
on hand. Goods subject to availability. Ask for our 130 page catalog. Call Monday 
thru Saturday, 7AM to 6PM, Outside CA, toll free 800-421-8045 
MASTERCHARGE In CA. call below #'s^^ VISA 



Olympic saus company inc. 

216 South Oxford Avenue • P.O. Box 74545 Los Angeles. 
CA 90004 • (213) 381-3911 or (213) 381-1202 • Telex 67-34/ 



We can make 

beautiful music 

together. 

Its INCREDIBLE how fast 
you can enter a song using 




MUSICRAFT makes your 
computer into an easy-to- 
use, interactive musical in- 
strument on which to create, 
store, and perform music. 
Produces up to four voices, 
each with seven octave 
range, each with different 
musical sounds. Supports- 
measures, line numbers, 
repeats, refrains, key signa- 
tures, accidentals, micro- 
tones, etc. Requires an 8080, 
8085, or Z80 S400 bus com- 
puter with only 24K (or larger) 
CP-M* system, terminal with 
addressable cursor, and New- 



tech Model 6 Music Board, 
$99.95. 



language programs: Set-up, 
advanced Screen Editor fea- 
turing simple notation and 
automatic error detection, 
Waveform Generator, very 
fast two-pass Compiler, and 
Play modules. 

Available on 8" single den- 
sity IBM , single density North 
Star, and Micropenis Mod II 
CP/M* formats. 



, thorough Use 

pping, plus $1. C.O.D. 



Inquire about other formats. 
The Musicraft Devetbpment System was written by Computercraft 

"CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research. 

NEWTECH 

COMPUTER SYSTEMS, INC. 

230 Clinton Street, Brooklyn, New York 11201 • (212) 625-6220 



Circle 144 on inquiry card. 



The 

Working 

Analyst* 



If you would like to put 
I a computer to work 
collecting, organizing, 
and summarizing 
the information 
you need to make 
better decisions, take 
a look at Analyst. 
Analyst is a software 
package designed to let 
you store and analyze 
virtually any information 
involving numbers, dollars, 
dates, and descriptions. Simply 
tell Analyst what kind of informa- 
tion you want to store. Analyst creates a com- 
puterized file for that information. And Analyst 
creates an information entry program for your 
file that asks you for each entry, and checks your 
data for errors. (You can create any number of 
different files.) 

Then tell Analyst what reports you want from 
your data file. There are all sorts of record 
selection and report formatting options, so you 
can design an unlimited variety of reports to 
focus on different aspects of the same data file. 

Analyst is so flexible, you'll find a million 
ways to use it. It is easy to use, so you don't need 
to be a programmer to make 
your computer really 
work for you. If this bit 
of information 
intrigues you, find out 
the rest. You'll like 
what you see. 

Analyst is a part of a full line of working software solutions from 
Structured Systems Group, all ready to run on any CP/M* microcomputer 
system. For more information, see your computer retailer, or call us. 




"CP/M is a trademark of Digital Research. 



Structured Systems 

5204 Claremont Oakland, Ca. 94618 (415)547-1567 



Circle 145 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 219 



BYTE's Bugs 



Schematic Decodes 
Improperly 

An error marred a 
schematic diagram in 
William J Daily's article 
"Faster Audio Processing 
with a Microprocessor/' on 
page 54 of the December 
1979 BYTE. In figure 12 on 
page 75, two connections to 
a 7404 hex inverter are 
shown incorrectly. The cor- 
rect connections are shown 
here as figure 1. A circuit 
built according to the 
published diagram would 
fail to decode the binary 
states 01 and 10 properly. 

IC5b is supposed to 
decode the input 01. 
However, its inputs incor- 
rectly come from the signals 
Qa and Q* in the 
published figure. The inputs 



Figure 1 



qb(I> 

Q*0 




to IC5b should come from 
the signals Q* and Q^ A 
similar situation exists for 



IC6a. Input for IC6a should 
come from Qg and Qa . 
Thanks to Bob Werner of 



Solon, Iowa, for pointing 
out this problem. ■ 



MULTI-USER/MULTI-TASKING PASCAL 
On The Lias Beiasysiem H 



The New Industry Standard... 



Up to 5 Quad density floppies (1 .6 Mbyte) 

or 1 1 , 27, 40 Mbyte 8" Winchester fixed 

disk in single chassis. 

110 Mbyte Backup Capability. 

Up to 8 independent users. 

UCSD™ PASCAL 

4 MHz Z-80 Processor. 

4 Bidirectional Parallel and 4 Serial Ports 

Standard. 

Up to 400 K Byte Memory. 

12 Slot S-100 Fully Terminated Mother 

board. 



Line Filter 

OFF/ON/RESET keyswitch. 

Dual Whisper Fans. 

Chassis Engineered for Optimum Cooling 



and Nc 
• CP/M T 



ise Suppressior 
1 Available. 



lated Mothe 




lbs 

5476 Cleo Ct, Livermore, Ca. 94550 • (415) 443-3131. 
Distributors: 

Canada: ELI F., 725 DeCarie, Suite 304, Saint-Laurent, Canada; H4L3L4 (514) 747-4751 . 
MiddleEast: EEI..RO. Box5088, Sharjah, U.A.E. Tel: 354688, Telex: 68188 EEISH. 

Dealer Inquiries Invited 



220 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 147 on inquiry card. 



|Buy By Mail and Save! 



COMPUTERS 

INTERTECSuperBrain® 

32K RAM $2995 . . . $2495 

64 K RAM $3345 . . . $2695 

NORTH STAR Horizon® 1 

32K Kit, List $1999 . $1579 

32K Assembled $2695 $2149 
Horizon 2 

32K DD, Kit, $2399 . $1885 

32K DD, Assm. $3095 $2439 

32K QD, Kit $2779 . $2359 

32K QD, Assm. $3595 $2859 

CROMEMCO 

System 3, 64K, $6990 . $5479 
System 2, 64K, $3990 . $3179 
2-2, List $995 $ 829 

VECTOR MZ, $4313 $3439 

System B, List $5463 $4359 

HEATH WH 89 . $1949 



PRINTERS/TERMINALS 

ANADEX DP-8000 . . $869 



HAZELTINE 1410 

1420 

1500 



$699 
$839 
$879 

PAPER TIGER IDS 440 $849 

with graphics option . . $949 

INTERTUBE II $995 . $729 



PERKIN-ELMER 

Bantam 550 

TELEVIDE0 912 

CENTRONICS 730 1 

779-1, List $1245 . . 
779-2, List $1350 . . 

702, List $2480 . . . 
704, List $2350 . . . 

703, List $2975 . . . 

T.I. 810 



$789 

$789 

$799 

$939 

$989 

$1990 

$1995 

$2175 

$1575 



Most items in stock for immediate delivery, factory-sealed cartons, with full factory 
warranty. N.Y.S. residents add appropriate sales tax. Prices do not include shipping. 
VISA and Master Charge add 3%. COD orders require 25% deposit. Prices subject 
to change and offers subject to withdrawal without notice. 

Computers Wholesale 

P.O. Box 144 

Camillus, NY 13031 

(315)472-2582 





Mary mac Industries Inc 



Radio /hack 

ASSOCIATE STORE 

Save 10% 15% 

OR MORE 

» 4 

DELIVERED TO YOUR DOOR 

Warranties will be honored by your local Radio Shack® store open Mon.-Sat. 
10-7. We pay freight and insurance save State Sales Tax. Texas residents add 
only 5% sales tax brand new in factory sealed cartons. Reference Katy 
National Bank call us for a customer reference near your city. Offered 
exclusively by Radio Shack® Authorized Sales Center 21969 katy Fwy., Katy 
(Houston) Texas 77450 

Telephone 1-713-392-0747 THS«80 

for BUSINESS, 
LEARNING 

AND 

ENTERTAINMENT 





Meet TRS-80's Big Brother! 
The New TRS-80 Model II 



We are located just 5 hours 
from the giant Tandy Com- 
puterware House in Ft. 
Worth, Texas. 
Call 
Joe McMamis 



We've added a bigger, more 
powerful "brother" to the 
TRS-80 family, it's TRS-80 
Model II — a completely 
new microcomputer for 
business applications. 



Today 



CHARGE IT 



Radio 
/haek 



Order the 

professional's 

choice. 

UCSD Pascal. 

The Pascal everyone is talking about is UCSD 
Pascal. . .with over 10,000 users and growing. The 
fully developed Pascal is available with support 
from a professional software company. Implemented 
on most major microprocessors. 

Not just another compiler, but complete 
development software — from operating system to 
screen-oriented editor. Language extensions for 
systems development and commercial applications 
programming. 

Program portability that allows programs written 
on one microcomputer to run without recompilation 
on different microcomputers. This protects your 
software investment. . .without restricting your 
hardware options. 

If you have CP/Mf visit your local computer 
store or order below. System supplied on single - 
density, soft-sectored, 8" floppy disks and requires 
48K of contiguous RAM. For other systems call 
us or write for more information. Telephone orders 
accepted with Master Charge or VISA. 

rrwcRosvsT em s 

(=» SUSSIOIARV OF SOFTECH 

9494 Black Mountain Road • San Diego • CA • 92126 
TEL: (714) 578-6105 • TWX: 910-335-1594 

CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research Corporation, LSI- 11 is a 
trademark of Digital Equipment Corporation. LICSD Pascal is a trademark of the 
Regents of the University of California. 

□ Yes! Rush me a complete UCSD Pascal system 
for my CP/M® based microcomputer. A check 
or money order for $300.00 is enclosed. I have 
a computer. 

□ Send me more information about UCSD Pascal. 
Versions are available for systems using the 
following microprocessors: LSI-11™ 6502, 6800, 
6809, 9900, Z80 and 8080/8085. 

□ Send me only the complete set of documentation 
for UCSD Pascal. A check or money order for 
$37.00 is enclosed. 

□ Send distributor information. 

Name ___ 

Company __ * 

Address 

City 



State/Zip __ 

M/C or VISA # _Exp. Date_ 

Mass. and Calif, residents enclose applicable sales tax. 



B^l 



Circle 148 on inquiry card. 



Circle 149 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 221 



Globs and Newsletters 



Another TRS-80 Users 
Group 

The NASA/Bay Area 
TRS-80 Users Group meets 
the first Tuesday of each 
month in the Lockheed 
Bldg, L XI, Rm 2012, Space 
Park Dr, Nassau Bay TX. 
The dues are $5 per year. 
Contact Roy Cone, Presi- 
dent, (713) 474-3847. 



Computer Club in Finland 

The "Mikrotietokoney- 
hdistys ry" translates into 
Microcomputer Hobbyists. 
This club has been in opera- 
tion since June, 1977. 
Meetings are held bimonthly 
and are announced in the 
newsletter. The newsletter, 
Microman, is published six 
times a year. The club is in- 
terested in hardware and 
software related topics, and 
has a strong interest in 



advanced programming 
languages such as Pascal, 
ADA, APL and others. 
Their hardware interests in- 
clude S-100 and IEEE-488 
bus structures. The yearly 
dues for membership and 
the newsletter are 80 FIM or 
$20 US currency. Contact 
Mr Teuvo Aaltio, POB 250, 
SF-00121 Helsinki 12, 
FINLAND, (+358 0) 626 
525. 



The Financial Systems 
Report 

The Financial Systems 
Report is a monthly newslet- 
ter that focuses on computer 
programs, products, and ser- 
vices relevant to the needs 
of the financial and tax con- 
sultant. Tax planning pro- 
grams, financial modeling 
and forecasting systems, 
financial data bases, por- 
table computers and tele- 



SOMBgj 



COMPUTER SPECIALISTS 



15% Discount 
on 

TRS-80's-l 
ANDACCESSORIES 



POPULAR 16KLEVEL2SYSTEAA ...$722.00 

FAST 100 cps Centronics 730 PR INTER.... $800.00 
HIGHLY RELIABLE LOBO DRIVES $375.00 



MICRQ MANAGEMENT SVSTEMS 

DOWNTOWN PLAZA SHOPPING CENTER 

115 C SECOND AVE. S.W. 

CAIRO, GEORGIA31728 

912-377-7120 

"TRS-80 is a Registered Trademark of Tandy Corp." 



communication terminals, 
personal financial planning 
systems, microcomputers, 
and more will be covered in 
each issue. It is available for 
$60 per year from Syntax 
Corp, 4500 W 72nd Ter, 
POB 8137, Prairie Village 
KS 66208. 



SYM-PHYSIS Newsletter 

SYM-PHYSIS is a bi- 
monthly newsletter pub- 
lished by the SYM Users 
Group, POB 315, Chico CA 
95927. They welcome 
articles dealing with all 
aspects of the SYM-1 and its 
close relatives. The subscrip- 
tion rate for a six-issue 
volume is $9 in the US and 
$12.50 overseas. For more 
information, contact H R 
"Lux" Luxenberg at the 
above address. 



PEEK (65) 



PEEK(65), the unofficial 
Ohio Scientific users' jour- 
nal, features a software 
exchange, PEEKs and 
POKEs, user equipment 
reviews, and bugs and fixes. 
Articles are welcome. 
Membership is $8 per year. 
Send inquiries to PEEK(65), 
62 Southgate Ave, 
Annapolis MD 21401, 



Computers Anonymous 

This club meets the first 
Sunday of each month. For 
complete information, con- 
tact Computers Anony- 
mous, POB 263, Dalton MA 
01226. 



Albany Computer Society 

The goal of this group is 
to serve as a forum for ideas 
and products of interest to 
computer hobbyists. The 
members are interested in 
anything pertaining to 
Sorcerers, Apples, 
Challengers, and TRS-80s. 
Meetings are held the second 



Saturday of each month at 
Albany Junior College and 
are open to the public. Con- 
tact Albany Computer 
Society, c/o Dr Donald 
Cook, 2400 Gillionville Rd, 
Albany GA 31707. 



Join a Software 
Computer Club 

Specify which computer 
you use and Ron Goodman 
will put you in contact with 
the right people. Apple, 
PET, Compucolor, Ohio 
Scientific, TRS-80, and 
other microcomputer users 
are welcome to join. For 
more information, contact 
Ron Goodman, 12702 
Emelita St, N Hollywood 
CA 91607. 



APL Newsletter 

Personal APL News, writ- 
ten by the Rev Mokurai 
Cherlin and Shasta Abbey, 
covers hobby, educational, 
professional, and small- 
business uses of APL. The 
newsletter describes the use 
of APL as a programming 
language and as a 
mathematical notation and 
digital hardware design 
language. One feature is the 
resource directory, giving 
details of available APL 
hardware, software, ser- 
vices, and books. The cost 
is $1 in the US and Canada 
and $2 elsewhere. Send 
subscriptions and inquiries 
to Personal APL News, POB 
1131, Mt Shasta CA 96067. 



The Computer Club 

The Computer Club offers 
an invitation to all computer 
users and owners in 
southern New England who 
wish to share their 
knowledge. The club meets 
once a month to discuss 
problems, ideas, and 
discoveries. For further 
details, contact The Com- 
puter Club, 6 Maureen Dr, 
Simsbury CT 06070. 



222 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 150 on inquiry card. 



Circle 151 on inquiry card. 



WE CARRY - 



• CROMEMCO 

• NORTH STAR 

• VECTOR GRAPHICS 
• THINKER TOYS 

• NEC 

• CENTRONICS 

• INTERTUBE - $750.00 

• SERENDIPITY 

• SOROC - $775.00 

• TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 



Professional A/R. A/P. Ledger. Payroll. Medical Billing soft- 
ware with customization available. Send for our catalog — 
Send for quote. 
Call for quote. 




SARA-TECH 
COMPUTERS 
P.O. Box 692 
Venice, FL 
33595 
(813)485-3559 



r*i 



for TRS-80 II. Compucolor II. 
&PET 




EVERYTHING YOU NEED 
TO BRING YOUR BASIC 
PROGRAMS TO LIFE WITH 
SOUND! 

SOUNDWARE is a complete package: 
YOU GET A SPEAKER /AMPLI- 
FIER UNIT complete with connectors. 
No wiring or soldering. Just plug in! 

YOU GET A DEMO PROGRAM with 
a variety of sample sound effects- 
sirens, laser sounds, tunes! 

YOU GET A COMPOSER PRO- 
GRAM to help you create your own 
original sound effects. Fun for all ages! 

YOU GET AN INSTRUCTION 
BOOKLET that tell you how to insert 
sound into your programs. 1 year 
warranty. J ^*tH< 



Complete Programs 

Package or & Booklet 

"ALL PETS & TRS-80 II $29.95 $14.95 

Compucolor II $39.95 $19.95 

SEND FOR FREE CATALOG OF 
GAMES FOR PET & COMPUCOLOR!! 

SEE YOUR DEALER TODAY! Or order direct from CAP by phone or 
mail. VISA & MasterCharge orders include expiration date. Add $1 
postage & handling per order, $3 for air or COD. Arizona residents 
add tax. 
CAP Electronics 8462 Hillwood Ln.. Suite 3. Tucson, AZ 85715 (602) 296-4978 



North 

Star 

Horizon 



Heath 
H89 



TRS-80 
Model I 




Cromemco 
C3 



" u TRS-80 
Model II 



Your 
Computer 



"B3TAM" 

Byrom Software Telecommunications Access Method 



The missing link between 
any CP/M orTRSDOS computers! 

A commercially oriented telecommunications 

facility for transmitting and receiving 

CP/M* and TRSDOS** files, BSTAM has BIG 

computer features for your micro: 

links computers directly at 9600 baud with 

UARTS, or via phone lines using modems 

full speed data transfer without hex 

conversion overhead 

full wildcard expansions to send * .COM, etc. 

reliable error detection 

and automatic retry with 

console messages for 

status and errors 



It's Terrific! 

We use it ourselves! 

S-fCn PER $c MANUAL 

1%/U COMPUTER O ALONE 



demark of Digital Research 
trademark of Tandy 



eboat Associates 

THE 
SOFTWARE 
, .SUPER- 
MARKET 



Lifeboat Associates 



Circle 152 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 223 



FOR THE VERY REST IN 
NORTHSTAR COMPATIBLE SOFTWARE 



DATA BASE MANAGERS 
SPECIAL!! $10.00 OFF of Selector-Ill CZ 

SELECTOR-IH C2: SuperSoft is proud to offer the Selector-Ill C2 at a special $10.00 
discount. Selector III allows instant recall of any record using any information item in the 
record. This makes Selector-Ill the most powerful Data Base Management System in 
micro-computers todayl You can define a data format and begin entering your data in 
minutes. Helps bring applications on line in hours instead of months. (Note: Selector-Ill C2 
requires CP/M and C BASIC-2, not supplied - also 48K Ram required for some applications) 
Selector-Ill C2 is: $335.00 ($10.00 off list!). (Manual alone: $20.00) 

INSURANCE AGENTS 

CRS - Client Record System. A complete program package for the Insurance agent. CRS 
will provide you with very fast online access to your client records, print reports and mail 
labels, and give you all the information you will need to increase your sales through the 
use of CRS as a MARKETING TOOL. 

CRS stores a complete record for each client that includes the name, address, telephone 
#, as well as provisions for customer #, salesman # and up to six policies (expandable, if 
needed). Write for details. 

CRS comes with two(2) user's manuals, one for the owner, and one for office person- 
nel! (minimal system: one drive, 40K RAM starting 2000H) $250.00 (Manual: $40.00) 

TEXT PROCESSORS 

TFS -Text Formatting System. At last a full featured text processor for NorthStarthat you 
can rely onl TFS has left & right margin justification, page numbering, chaptering, page 
headings, centering, paged output & MORE. Supports powerful text manipulation inclu- 
ding: global & local 'search and change,' file merges and block moves. This means that 
you can restructure your text file at any time to look the way you want it to, you can even 
'chain' files together from disk for documents larger than your current memory. 

TFS is completely 'load and so' therefore you can start using it at once. You get two(2) 
user's manual: one is a Quick Start manual to get you going in minutes, the other is an in 
depth study of TFS. (TFS requires RAM from 0000H to 2000H) $75.00 (Manual only: 
$20.00) 

SPEECH SYNTHESIZER SOFTWARE 

'ANGLOPHONE' - Lets any 8080/Z80 computer convert ordinary English into phonetic 
codes to drive Votrax, computalker, and TRS-80 Voice synthesizes. This is a hardworking, 
tested program suitable for use in the most demanding situations. (Details below). Inquire 
for specific prices and media. 



COMPUTER AIDED INSTRUCTION 
MISS- Microcomputer Instructional Support System. A complete, self-contained CAI 
package applicable to home, school or business education. Includes everything needed to 
create a sophisticated computer learning environment. MISS allows one to create any type 
lesson complete with wrong answer branching, re-test, and complete record keeping. The 
student is prompted 100% of the way and need have no special knowledge. A special 
feature is the optional use of a unique algorithm which separates spelling errors from incor- 
rect responses. Absolutely no programming knowledge is required. MISS is completely 
interactive and maintains complete records on any number of students and lessons 
(limited only by disk space). MISS is a completely flexible system that will allow you to 
either create lessons or to purchase pre-programmed lessons which run under MISS. Com- 
plete with user's manual,... $40.00 {Manual alone: $10.00) 

ASSEMBLERS 

ARIAN - A complete 8080 assembler that interfaces directly to your DOS. ARIAN is com- 
pletely 'load and go'. Features include: dynamic file and RAM allocation, custom disk and 
RAM command capability, several library routines directly accessable by the user. Also, a 
complete text editor, and system executive. ARIAN is both powerful and easy to learn and 
use; it is an assembler that you can grow with. Comes complete with a 51 page user's 
manual (ARIAN requires RAM from OOOOH to 2000H) $50.00 (Manual alone: $10.00) 
ARIAN Utility Package - Several disk based utilities. Includes a complete DEBUG 
Package: $50.00 

PROGRAMMING LANGAUGES 

'Tiny' Pascal - This is famous Chung/Yuen 'tiny' Pascal. FAST - ELEGANT - STRUC- 
TURED. Local and global variables plus procedure and function independence make 'tiny' 
Pascal great for high speed applications. Compiles to 8080 code that executes up to 25 
times faster than BASIC. You also receive SOURCE to 'tiny' Pascal written in Pascal. This 
means that you can compile the compiler! Add features, relocate, etc. (you will need 36K 
to do this) $40.00 

UTILITIES 

DE BE- (Does Everything But Eat!) This is a must for NorthStar user's. You can: COM- 
PACT & EXPAND BASIC programs. Compacting removes unnecessary spaces and 
remarks. This saves money and makes programs run faster. Expanding puts them back 
again. 

Cross-reference BASIC programs by variables and transfer statements. 

Global substitutions of variables and transfer statements. 

Formatted print outs of BASIC programs as well. $40.00 



SPECIFY SINGLE OR DOUBLE DENSITY 



TRS-80 COMPATIBLE SOFTWARE 



'Tiny' Pascal FOR TRS-80 

Now you too can have Pascall The famous Chung/Yuen 'tiny' Pascal has been specially 
designed for the TRS-80I The full power and elegance of 'tiny' Pascal is at your command. 
Programs written in 'tiny' Pascal run at least 4 times faster than the same program in 
BASIC! 'tiny' Pascal is also a great way to learn Pascal programming, & fun too. 

Best of all, you only need a 1 6K Level II TRS-80! No disk is required. The 'tiny' Pascal 
operating system is self-contained and very easy to use. 

'Tiny' Pascal is a subset of standard Pascal & includes: RECURSIVE PROCEDURE/FUNC- 
TION, IF THEN ELSE REPEAT/UNTIL, 'PEEK' & 'POKE', WHILE DO, CASE, MOREI (Plus full 
graphics for your TRS-80). 

You can save and load programs to and from tape in both source or compiler form. 

You get all this and more, plus a user's manual for $40.00 

SPEECH SYNTHESIZER SOFTWARE 

'ANGLOPHONE': At last you can take complete advantage of your TRS-80 voice syn- 
thesizer. Forget about cumbersome phonetic codes. With 'Anglophone' you can simply 
use ordinary English. Completely interfaces with BASIC, or just about any other program- 
ming language. 'Anglophone' applies sophisticated pronunciation rules to transform nor- 
mal English spelling into speech using the TRS-80 Voice Synthesizer. Minimum hardware: 
Level II, 1 6K, Voice Synthesizer. Comes complete with user's manual and test program. 
$45.00 



Energy-Miser 

Energy-Miser is a complete heating/cooling analysis program for your home, office or 
business! With Energy-Miser you can calculate heat loss because of poor insulation, leaky 
doors and windows, poor planning and more. With Energy-Miser you can predict the 
annual savings on your utility bills for various improvements or modifications, including: 
use of solar power, better insulation, opening and closing drapery, etc. 

But there is even more: Energy-Miser can also calculate your Return on Investment. That 
is, you can find your break point for converting to solar, for insulating better, etc. Energy- 
Miser even takes into consideration the Energy Tax Credit! Energy-Miser is a program 
designed to save your money! 

Energy-Miser is a proven program written by a professional and includes a complete 
user's manual for $22.50. (Minimum System 1 6K Level II, No Disk Required) 

'TALKING TERMINAL': The 'Talking Terminal' program turns a TRS-80 into a talk- 
ing computer terminal. The 'Talking Terminal' program receives input from a remote com- 
puter and converts it to spoken words. Its many user options include: Instant Replay, spell- 
ed speech, silent or pronounced punctuation, and more. Minimum hardware: Level II, 1 6K, 
Voice Synthesizer, RS-232C board and expansion interface $145.00 





p 


^^A 


1KB 





ALL ORDERS PREPAID OR C.O.D. 
ILLINOIS RESIDENTS ADD 5% SALES TAX 

(217) 344-7596 



/wm/on 

P.O. Box 1628 
Champaign, IL 61820 



1802 Software 
Newsletter 



The 1802 Software 
Newsletter contains pro- 
grams written in Tiny 
BASIC, BASIC, PILOT, 
CHIP-8, and other 
languages, and in assembly 
and hexadecimal object 
code. The newsletter 
averages fifteen pages per 
issue. Construction articles 
are included. The newsletter 
is for ELF, ELF II, Super 
ELF, VIP, VIP II, or 
homebrew 1802 systems. It 
is published monthly and 

224 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



costs $10 per year. Contact 
1802, 19 French Cr, Regina, 
Saskatchewan S4R 6N3 
CANADA. 



The Computer Consultant 

The Computer Consultant 
is published six times a year 
by Battery Lane Publica- 
tions, POB 30214, Bethesda 
MD. The newsletter consists 
of short entries from com- 
puter consulting companies, 
including software design 
firms, training organiza- 
tions, security consulting 



outfits, systems program- 
mers, and other computer- 
related consulting com- 
panies. The subscription rate 
of $15 per year includes one 
free listing per issue. 



TRS-80 Users Group 
in Maine 

The Southern Maine 
TRS-80 Computer Club 
meets the first Tuesday of 
each month at 6:30 PM at 
the Maine Medical Center, 
Portland, Maine, in 
Classroom 2. Contact 



Douglas Stewart, 15 Moun- 
tain View Rd, Cape 
Elizabeth ME 04107. 



An Apple Users Group 
in California 



The Los Angeles Apple 
Users Group meets the first 
Friday of every month at 
7:30 PM at the Allstate 
Savings Community Room, 
8800 S Sepulveda Blvd, Los 
Angeles, California. Contact 
Philip A Wasson, 9513 Hin- 
dry PI, Los Angeles CA 
90045. ■ 



Circle 153 on inquiry card. 



Model EP-2A-79 

EPROM Programmer 




Software available for F-8, 6800, 8085, 8080, Z-80, 6502 1802 
2650,6809, 8086 based systems. 

EPROM type is selected by a personality module which plugs into 
the front of the programmer. Power requirements are 115 VAC 
50/60 Hz. at 15 watts. It is supplied with a 36-inch ribbon cable for 
connecting to microcomputer. Requires \ l k I/O ports. Priced at 
$155 with one set of software. (Additional software on disk and 
cassette for various systems.) Personality modules are shown below. 

Part No, Programs Price 

PM-0 TMS 2708 $ 150 

PM-1 2704,2708 1500 

PM-2 2732 3000 

PM-3 TMS 2716 2500 

PM-4 TMS 2532 . 3000 

PM-5 TMS 2516, 2716, 2758 " " 15 QO 

PM8 MCM68764 33 00 

Optimal Technology, Inc. 

Blue Wood 127, Eariysvllle, Virginia 22936 
Phone (804) 973-5482 



DATADISK 
SYSTEMS 



PROFESSIONAL SOFTWARE FOR NORTH STAR SYSTEMS 



DIGITAL RESEARCH 

CP/M*2.0 — Digital Research's latest disk operating 
system for 8080/8085/Z80 based microcomputers, 
now specially tailored for the North Stardisk systems 
Includes ED text editor, DDT debugger, ASM 
assembler, additional utility programs and complete 
documentation. CP/M 2.0 is upward compatible with 
earlier releases and makes a wealth of professional 
software available to your system t$150/$25 

TEX - A powerful text formatter. Produces finished 
copy with automatic page numbering, left and right 
margin justification, indentation, page headers, line 
centering and other quality features Output may be 
vectored to printer, disk or console $70/$15 

MAC — 8080 Macro assembler. Allows use of library 
programs, greatly increasing programming 
efficiency. Uses Intel macro conventions. Assembly 
toggles allow listing, hex and symbol table outputs to 
be directed to disk, printer, console or combination. A 
tremendous development aid S85/$15 

SID — Symbolic Instruction Debugger for the 8080. 
Allows multiple break points with user set pass 
counter. Displays user labels during debugging when 
used with MAC. Greatly reduces hard-copy listing 
requirements. Includes back-trace and histogram 
utilities. A must for serious software development. 
$85/$15 



ZSID — Same as SID except incorporates complete 
Z80 instruction set and uses 2-80 mnemonics. 
$95/$15 



OESPOOL — Allows simultaneous printing of disk 
iles and user access to other programs. No need to 
stop production while lengthy printouts are in progress. 

- $45/$5 

SOFTWARE SYSTEMS 

CBASlC-2 — A commercially oriented, compiler- 
interpreter extended disk BASIC. Self documenting, 
using full length variable labels without penalizing 
speed. Compiler permits distribution of software 
without releasing source code. 

$105/$15 



California residents add 6% sales tax. 
Specify single, double or quad capacity. 
Additional formats available soon. 
Structured Systems Group programs require 
CP/M and CBASIC-2. 

"CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research. 
tSoftware and documentation/documentation only. 



BUSINESS SOFTWARE FROM 
STRUCTURED SYSTEMS GROUP 

GENERAL LEDGER — A comprehensiveapplications 
package for business accounting or CPA multi-client 
write up. Produces financial reports to user defined 
specifications. Interactive posting, balance sheet, 
income statement, general and cash disbursement 
journals, sort, multipfe profit centers, accounts 
distribution and much more. Outstanding package. 
$895/125 

ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE — A complete open item 
or balance forward system. Operates alone, or 
interfaces with General Ledger. Produces customer 
statements, aged trial balance, on-line inquiry, sales 
reports, reminder notices and more S695/S25 

ACCOUNTS PAYABLE — A powerful cash 
management system. Aged account statements, 
writes checks, cash requirements projection. General 
Ledger update and more included. Stand atone 
operation or interfaces with General Ledger and 
QSORT $695/$25 

NAD — Name and Address System - Stores mailing 
lists on disk. Prints mailing labels or lists additional 
references information. Selective data extraction. 
$75/$10 

QSORT — A generalized, full disk sort/merge 
package. Fast and flexible. Multiple key sorting. 
$95/$15 

LETTERIGHT — Word processing for the business 
office. Produces professional correspondence, 
letters, envelopes, and more. High speed production 
with minimal training. Multiple personalized letters 
produced when used with list formed by NAD. 

$17S/$20[ 

ANALYST — Generalized data base management! 
program. Stores and retrieves disk data producing I 
user formatted reports. Interactive input. Easy to use. I 
Tremendous versatility $225/520 1 

INVENTORY — Complete inventory control program I 
limited in capacity only by your disk size. On-line I 
inquiry, average valuation, reorder and activity reports I 
with report range option. Menu driven and fully I 
auditable, the system uses full screen formatting and I 
permits user defined record numbers. 1 

$795/$25 1 

NOW— AN AFFORDABLE HARD DISK 
Ask about our 13,2 megabyte Winchester technology! 
hard disk business system. Uses all above listed I 
software. Price varies with software configuration. 



Datadisk Systems, P.O. Box 195, Poway, CA 92064, (714) 578-3831 



Circle 154 on inquiry card. 



DYNACOMP 



Quality software for: 



Apple II Plus 
TRS-80 (Level II) 
North Star 



All software is supplied with complete documentation which includes clear 
explanations and examples. Each program will run with standard terminals (32 
characters or wider) and within 16K program memory space. Except where 
noted, all software is available on North Star diskette {North Star BASIC), 
TRS-80 cassette {Level II) and Apple cassette (Applesoft BASIC). These pro- 
grams are also available on PAPER TAPE {Microsoft BASIC). 

FLIGHT SIMULATOR Price: $17.95 postpaid 

(as described in SIMULATION, Volume II) 

A realistic and extensive three-dimensional simulation of take-off, flight and landing. 

The program utilizes aerodynamic equations and the characteristics of a real airfoil. 

You can practice instrument approaches and navigation using radials and compass 

headings. The more advanced flyer can also perform loops, half-rolls and similar 

aerobatic maneuvers. 

SIMULATION, Volume II (BYTE Publications): $6.00 

VALDEZ Price: $14.95 postpaid 

A simulation of supertanker navigation in the Prince William Sound and Valdez 
Narrows, The program uses an extensive 256X256 element radar map and employs 
physical models of ship response and tidal patterns. Chart your own course through 
ship and iceberg traffic. Any standard terminal may be used for display. 

BRIDGE 2.0 Price: $17.95 postpaid 

An all-inclusive version of this most popular of card games. This program both BIDS 
and PLAYS either contract or duplicate bridge. Depending on the contract, your com- 
puter opponents will either play the offense OR defense. If you bid too high the com- 
puter will double your contract! BRIDGE 2.0 provides challenging entertainment for 
advanced players and is an excellent learning tool for the bridge novice. 



HEARTS 1.5 



Price: $14.95 postpaid 



An exciting and entertaining computer version of this popular card game. Hearts is a 
trick-oriented game in which the purpose is not to take any hearts or the queen of 
spades. Play against two computer opponents who are armed with hard-to-beat play- 
ing strategies. 

DATA SMOOTHER Price: $14.95 postpaid 

This special data smoothing program may be used to rapidly derive useful information 
from noisy business and engineering data which are equally spaced. The software 
features choice in degree and range of fit, as well as smoothed first and second 
derivative calculation. Also included is automatic plotting of the input data and 
smoothed results. 

FOURIER ANALYZER Price: $14.95 postpaid 

Use this program to examine the frequency spectra of limited duration signals sampled 
at equal intervals. The program features automatic scaling and plotting of the input 
data and results. Practical applications include the analysis of complicated patterns in 
such fields as electronics, communications and business, 

MAIL LIST I Price: $18.95 postpaid (available for North Star only) 

A many-featured mailing list program which sorts through your customer list by user- 
defined product code, customer name or Zip Code. Entries to the list can be con- 
veniently added or deleted and the printout format allows the use of standard size 
address labels. Each diskette can hold approximately 900 entries. 

MAIL LIST SERVICE 

DYNACOMP can provide you with a customized mail list service. Your customer/ 
patient records are placed in a master computer file and you are provided with ad- 
dressed, self-adhesive labels for your mailings. These labels may be sorted by name, 
Zip Code, date, or other identifiers. Write for further details and a price schedule. 

TEXT EDITOR I (Letter Writer) Price: $14.95 postpaid 

An easy to use, line-oriented text editor which provides variable line widths and simple 
paragraph indexing. This text editor is ideally suited for composing letters and is quite 
capable of handling much larger jobs. 

GAMES PACK I Price: $1095 postpaid 

Seven entertaining games for less than a dollar a kilobyte! Play CATAPULT, CRAPS 
SWITCH, HORSERACE, SLOT MACHINE, BLACKJACK and LUNAR LANDER . 
This is an excellent way to introduce your children to computers. 

All orders are processed within 48 hours. Please enclose payment with order. If paying by 
MASTER CHARGE or VISA, include all numbers on card. Foreign orders add 10% for 
shipping and handling. 

Write for detailed descriptions of these and other programs available from DYNACOMP. 



DYNACOMP 

P.O. Box 162 
Webster, New York, 14580 

New York State residents please add 7% NYS sales tax 



Circle 155 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 225 



Event Gueue 



Technical Programs, The 

Hartford Graduate Center, 
275 Windsor St, Hartford 
CT 06120. These courses are 
aimed at technical profes- 
sionals, and include such 
topics as computer system 
fundamentals, micropro- 
cessors, computer-aided 
graphics, solar energy 
systems, calculators, and 
more. Contact The Hartford 
Graduate Center for more 
information. 

Datapro Research Corpora- 
tion. Among the topics 
scheduled during the spring 
Datapro conferences are 
data communications, data 
base management systems, 
word processing, electronic 
mail, systems analysis and 
design, and many others. 
Contact Datapro, 1805 
Underwood Blvd, Delran NJ 
08075, for a schedule of the 
conferences. 



Technology Transfer In- 
stitute. For a complete list of 
many courses being offered 
around the country during 
the spring of 1980, write to 
Technology Transfer In- 
stitute, POB 49765, Los 
Angeles CA 90049, or call 
(213) 476-9747. 

Data Communications Con- 
ferences. These conferences 
will include symposia on 
local computer networks, 
European Data Communica- 
tions Standards, understand- 
ing the components of data 
communications networks, 
data communications archi- 
tecture, interfaces and pro- 
tocols, and more. For a list 
of dates and further infor- 
mation, contact The 
McGraw-Hill Conference 
and Exposition Center, 1221 
Avenue of the Americas, 
Rm 3677, New York NY 
10020, or call (212) 997-4930. 



APRIL 1980 



April 1-2 
Southeast Printed Circuits 
and Microelectronics Exposi- 
tion, Sheraton-Twin Towers 
Convention Center, Orlando 
FL. This show is a special- 
ized event devoted entirely 
to the packaging, produc- 
tion and testing of printed 
circuits, multilayers, 
semiconductor devices, and 
hybrids. The conferences are 
aimed at electronics 
specialists. Contact ISCM, 
222 W Adams St, Chicago 
IL 60606. 

April 9-11 
The Practical APL Con- 
ference, Washington DC. 
This conference is addressed 
to business executives and 
systems designers. For more 
information, contact Joan 
Gurgold, STSC, 7 Holland 



Try a Really Different Kind of Software 
for Your TRS 80, PET, or APPLE ! 




Cross swords with a band of dastardly 
robbers in their mountain lair in the 
Datestones of Ryn. You explore the 
caverns shown on your video display and 
vanquish the monsters in real time. You 
have just 20 minutes to recover the pre- 
cious Datestones before time itself stops. 

Monsters — Melees — Magic! 

The Datestones of Ryn introduces you 
to the superlative DUNJONQUEST game 
system. Other games in the series may pit 
you against an evil wizard or the frightful 
insectoid monsters of the god Apshai. In 
the Datestones your main opponents are 
human, but look out for other nasty critters 
lurking in the darkness. You have 14 different 
commands ranging from moving (as fast or 
as slow as you like so long as you don't tire 
yourself out) to searching the walls for 
secret doors. 

For just $14.95 you get the Datestones of 
Ryn on cassette ready to play, and a superbly 
illustrated booklet that tells you all about the 
game. Please specify the version you want — 
TRS-80 (Level II, 16K), PET (16K old or new 
ROMS), or APPLE (32K Applesoft). 

Ask your dealer or send today to: 

AUTOMATED 
SIMULATIONS 

Dept. R2 
P.O. Box 4232 
Mountain View, Ca. 94040 
California residents please add 6% sales tax. 




Ave, White Plains NY 
10603. 

April 9-11 
International Conference on 
Acoustics, Speech, and 
Signal Processing, Fairmont 
Hotel, Denver CO. The 
IEEE Acoustics, Speech and 
Signal Processing Society is 
sponsoring this conference 
devoted to experimental and 
theoretical aspects of signal 
processing, speech, and 
acoustics. For more informa- 
tion, contact IEEE, 1100 
14th St, Denver CO 80202. 



April 11-12 

10th Annual Virginia Com- 
puter Users Conference. This 
conference is sponsored by 
the Virginia Tech Associa- 
tion for Computing 
Machinery (ACM) student 
chapter. The topics of 
discussion will be program- 
ming languages and system 
and personnel management. 
For more information, con- 
tact VCUC10, 562 McBryde 
Hall, VPI&SU, Blacksburg 
VA 24061. 

April 12 
Computer Fair, Scottish Rite 
Temple, 1895 Camino Del 
Rio South, San Diego CA. 
Exhibits and presentations of 
computers in education and 
the home are the highlights 
of this show which is spon- 
sored by the San Diego 
Computer Society. For in- 
formation, contact Richard 
Lindberg, POB 81537, San 
Diego CA 92138. 

April 13-16 

A Gateway to the Use of 
Computers in Education, 

Chase Park Plaza Hotel, St 
Louis MO. The purpose of 
this convention is to provide 
a forum for the exchange of 
information and ideas be- 
tween individuals, to inform 
educators of developments 
in computer technology, and 
to expose participants to in- 
novations in computing 
which can be utilized in the 
field of education. 

Educators are encouraged 



226 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 156 on inquiry card. 



to exhibit and make presen- 
tations of instructional 
microprocessor materials 
during the convention. Con- 
tact the Association for 
Educational Data Systems 
(AEDS), POB 951, Rolla 
MO 65401. 

April 14-18 
The 6th Annual Reliability 
Testing Institute, Ramada 
Inn, 404 N Freeway, Tucson 
AZ. The objective of the 
course is to provide reliabi- 
lity engineers, product 
assurance engineers, and 
managers with a working 
knowledge of analyzing 
component, equipment, and 
system performance, and 
failure data to determine the 
distributions of their times 
to failure, their failure rates, 
reliabilities, small sample 
size, and more. Three conti- 
nuing education credits are 
offered. The price for the 
course is $495. Contact Dr 
Dimitri Kececiouglu, In- 
stitute Director, Aerospace 
and Mechanical Engineering 
Dept, University of Arizona, 
Building 16, Tucson AZ 
85721. 

April 14-18 
High-Speed Computer 
Organization, 6266 Boelter 
Hall, UCLA Extension, Los 
Angeles CA. This course is 
for computer designers, 
system architects, project 
leaders and managers. The 
course provides an 
understanding of the prin- 
ciples of high-speed com- 
puter organization and their 
use in cost-effective systems. 
Several designs for high- 
speed computers are 
presented and compared. 
For more information, 
contact the UCLA Extension 
at POB 24901, Dept K, 
UCLA Extension, Los 
Angeles CA 90024. 

April 19-20 

Trenton Computer Festival, 

Trenton State College, Tren- 
ton NJ. Thirty speakers, 
user group demonstrations, 
conference sessions, and 
forums will be featured. The 
Trenton Conference has 
gained an excellent reputa- 
tion in the past. This year it 
will cover computers in the 
home, education, medicine, 
music, and the arts. Admis- 



sion is $5 for the two days. 
Contact Dr Allen Katz, 
Trenton State College, 
Hillwood Lakes, POB 940, 
Trenton NJ 08625, or Sol 
Libes, Amateur Computer 
Group of NJ, UCTI, 1776 
Raritan Rd, Scotch Plains NJ 
07076. 

April 21-25 

National Micrographics 
Association 29th Annual 
Conference and Exposition, 

Sheraton Center Hotel and 
Coliseum, New York NY. 
The theme for the show is 
"Focus on Productivity in 
Office Management." 
Highlighting the conference 
and exposition will be 
presentations and talks con- 
cerning the use in offices for 
computer systems and 
related items. 

For more information, 
contact the Conference 
Dept, National Micro- 
graphics Association, 8719 
Colesville Rd, Silver Spring 
MD 20910. 

April 22-25 

Spring DECUS US Sym- 
posium, Hyatt Regency 
O'Hare and the O'Hare Ex- 



hibition Center, Chicago IL. 
Exhibitions of Digital Equip- 
ment Corporation systems 
will be featured, along with 
special speakers and papers. 
Contact DECUS, Digital 
Equipment Computer Users 
Society, Attn: US Chapter, 
One Iron Way, MR2-3/E55, 
Marlboro MA 01752. 

April 23-25 
International DP Training 

Conference, Hyatt Regency, 
Chicago IL. The theme for 
this event will be 'The 
1980s: The Information 
Decade." The conference is 
a symposium for data pro- 
cessing experts and cor- 
porate training executives. 
For information, contact 
Deltak Inc, 1220 Kensington 
Rd, Oak Brook IL 60521. 

April 26 and 30 

The Computer-Aided Physi- 
cian's Office, Academy of 
Medicine, 288 Bloor W, 
Toronto, Canada. The 
course will enable the 
private practitioner to 
evaluate the effectiveness of 
small computer systems and 
their potential to reduce or 



contain costs. The cost is 
$225 per day or $400 for 
both days. Contact Human 
Computing Resources Corp, 
10 St Mary St, Toronto, 
Ontario, M4Y 1P9 
CANADA. 

April 27-30 

The 17th Numerical Control 
Society Annual Meeting and 
Technical Conference, Hart- 
ford Civic Center, Hartford 
CT. This convention will 
offer technical sessions 
covering such areas as 
computer-aided design 
engineering, business 
management, tool design 
and graphics; computer- 
aided assembly, facilities 
planning, inventory control, 
and management infor- 
mation systems; numerical 
control in various areas; 
data base structure and 
management; and other 
educational programs. There 
is also a large exhibition 
being presented. 

For more information, 
contact Numerical Control 
Society, 1800 Pickwick, 
Glenview IL 60025. 



TTCS-80, PET, 
APPLE, SORCERER 

Ham Interface Systems 




U Send & Receive RTTY / CW. 

□ Complete Hardware & Software Package. 

□ Extensive User Manuals. 

□ From $129. 
Write or call for complete catalog 



ICSJnc.® 

1125 N. Golden State Blvd. / Suite G 
Turlock,CA95380(A) 



(209) 667-2888 / 634-8888 
We are experiencing telephone difficulties, 
please keep trying. 



9B 



California residents add 6% tax 



Circle 157 on inquiry card. 



April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 227 



April 28-30 
Managing Technical Pro- 
grams and Projects, White 
Plains NY. For more infor- 
mation, contact the Institute 
for Advanced Professional 
Studies, One Gateway Ctr, 
Newton MA 02158. 

April 30-May 2 
Computerized Office Equip- 
ment Expo, O'Hare Exposi- 
tion Center, Rosemont IL. 
The latest developments in 
computers, word processors, 
copiers/duplicators, 
telephone systems, and 
other business equipment 
will be featured. The 
seminars will cover 
guidelines on buying com- 
puter systems, telephone 
and copier systems, the use 
of word processors, and 
more. Contact Industrial 
and Scientific Conference 
Management Inc, 222 W 
Adams St, Chicago IL 
60606. 

MAY 1980 

May and June 
Microprocessor Training 



Courses, Cudham Hall, 
Cudham, Sevenoaks, Kent, 
England. The courses being 
offered by the Sira Institute 
Ltd are microprocessor 
familiarization, micropro- 
cessor applications for the 
equipment user and for the 
manufacturer, and 
microprocessor-based equip- 
ment design and develop- 
ment. Write to Conference 
and Courses Unit at Sira In- 
stitute Ltd, South Hill, 
Chislehurst, Kent BR7 5EH 
ENGLAND. 

May 

IEEE Computer Society 
Conferences and Meetings. 

For a list of events, contact 
the Executive Secretary, 
Harry Hayman, POB 639, 
Silver Spring MD 20901, or 
phone (301) 439-7007. 

May 5-11 
Engineering, Science, and 
Public Policy, 16th Annual 
Meeting, Baltimore Conven- 
tion Center, Baltimore MD. 
Companies from around the 
world and the US will be 
exhibiting. The conference is 
being sponsored by the 



American Institute of 
Aeronautics and 
Astronautics (AIAA). Con- 
tact Lawrence Craner, Direc- 
tor of Technical Displays, 
AIAA, 1290 Avenue of the 
Americas, New York NY 
10019, or the Conference 
General Chairman, Laurence 
Adams at Martin Marietta 
Aerospace. 

May 6-8 

Micro /Expo 80, Centre In- 
ternational de Paris, Paris 
France. This is one of the 
leading shows in Europe for 
microcomputer users and 
manufacturers. Exhibits of 
new equipment, presen- 
tations, games, educational 
materials, and more will be 
featured. For more informa- 
tion, contact Sybex Inc, 
2020 Milvia St, Berkeley CA 
94704. 

May 6-8 

The 7th International Sym- 
posium on Computer Archi- 
tecture, La Baule France. 
This symposium will consist 
of discussions and readings 
in the following areas: 
distributed architectures, 
special-purpose architec- 



tures, hardware description 
languages, fault-tolerant 
architectures, high-speed 
computers, control schema, 
evaluation of architecture 
performance, and more. 

Contact, Daniel E Atkins, 
Dept of Electrical and Com- 
puter Engineering, Univer- 
sity of Michigan, Ann Arbor 
MI 48109. 

May 6-10 

The Sth Annual Canadian 
Association for Information 
Science, Toronto, Canada. 
Technology, commodity, 
and rights are the themes of 
this conference. Topics will 
cover information in the 
marketplace, information 
transfer and policy issues, 
right to access, new infor- 
mation technologies and 
applications, and other sub- 
jects. For more information, 
contact the Program Chair- 
man, Eighth Annual CAIS 
Conference, Technical Infor- 
mation Centre, Bell 
Northern Software 
Research, 12th floor, 522 
University Ave, 
Toronto, Ontario M5G 1W7 
CANADA. 



G. W. COMPUTERS LTD. 

This is how your business appears on the screen 

Approximately 60-100 entries/inputs require only 2-4 hours 
weekly and your entire business is under control. 



*PROGRAMS ARE INTEGRATED - 

01 = ENTER NAMES/ADDRESS, ETC 

02 = *ENTER/PRINT INVOICES 

03 = *ENTER PURCHASES 

04 = *ENTER A/C RECEIVABLES 

05 = *ENTER A/C PAYABLES 
06=ENTER/UPDATE INVENTORY 

07 = ENTER/UPDATE ORDERS 

08 = ENTER/UPDATE BANKS 

09 = EXAMINE/MONITOR SALES LEDGER 
10= EXAMINE/MONITOR PURCHASE LEDGER 

11 = EXAMINE/PRINT INCOMPLETE RECORDS 

12 = EXAMINE PRODUCT SALES 

WHICH ONE? [ENTER 1-24) 

Each program goes to suo menu, e.g.: 
(9) allows: A, LIST ALL SALES, B, MONITOR SALES BY STOCK CODES; 
C, RETRIEVE INVOICE DETAILS; D, AMEND LEDGER FILES; 
E, LIST TOTAL ALL SALES. 

Think of the possibilities and add to those here if you wish. 

Price for current package Version 1 is $550, or Version 2 (including aged debtors analysis, etc.) is $750, or full listing, $300. 

PET 16J32K disk-based version, SWTP 6800, IMS/CPM/Z80/S-100. Compatible systems shortly available for Apple and Tandy, 



SELECT FUNCTION BY NUMBER 

13 = PRINT CUSTOMER STATEMENT 
14= PRINT SUPPLIER STATEMENTS 
15= PRINT AGENT STATEMENTS 
16= PRINT TAX STATEMENTS 
17= PRINT WEEK/MONTH SALES 

18 = PRINT WEEK/MONTH PURCHASES 

19 = PRINT YEAR AUDIT 
20= PRINT PROFIT/LOSS ACCOUNT 

21 = UPDATE END MONTH FILES 

22 = PRINT CASH FLOW FORECAST 

23 = ENTER/UPDATE PAYROLL (NOT YET AVAILABLE) 
24= RETURN TO BASIC 



PET Software Distributor for USA i 

Crass Valley Computer Sys. 

P.O. Box 678 

Rough & Ready, CA 95795 

(916) 272-2793 



contact: Tony Winter on 01-636-8210 
89 Bedford Court Mansions 
Bedford Avenue 
London W1, UK 



Z80/CPM Software Distributor for USA i 
Owens Associates 
12 Shubert Street 
Staten Island, NY 10305 
(212)448-6283 



228 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 267 on inquiry card. 



Circle 159 on inquiry card. 



Circle 301 on inquiry card. 



APPLE II PARALLEL INTERFACE CARD. 

John Bell Engineering is announcing an Apple II 
Parallel Interface Card. There are four I/O ports with 
handshaking logic. The board has two 6522 versatile 
interface adapters and a 74LS74 for addressing and 
timing. Each 6522 has two interval timers. This will in- 
terface your Apple II to printers, speech synthesizers, 
keyboards, and other John Bell Engineering products. 
Inputs and outputs are TTL and CMOS compatible. 
Prices: 

79-295 Complete kit $69.95 

79-295 Assembled $79.95 

SOLID STATE SWITCH 

Now you can control the World! Switch lights on and 
off for home securrty, computer controlled disco light 
shows. Turn your printer on only when needed. The 
Switch can handle 720 watts (120 VAC 6 AMPS). Its in- 
put is TTL compatible (5V-2MA), isolation 1500VDC. 
The circuit board is 2" square on the one channel kit 
and 2"x 8" on the 4 channel unit. 
Prices: 

1 Channel kit $9.95 assm. $12.50 

4 Channel kit $34.95 assm. $44.95 

A to D D to A CONVERTER 

John Bell Engineering now has available an Analog to 
Digital and Digital to Analog Converter Board. Featues 
low cost medium speed (50,000 conversions per 
second) for applications such as speech recording and 
music synthesizing. Single power ( + 5) required. 
Parallel inputs and outputs include 8 data bits, strobe 
lines, and latches. Analog inputs and outputs are 
medium impedance zero to five volt range. 
Prices: 

79-287 Kit $49.95 

79-287 Assembled $69.95 

PRODUCTS AVAILABLE FROM: 

JOHN BELL ENGINEERING 

P.O. BOX 338 

DEPT. 4 

REDWOOD CITY, CA 94064 

(415)367-1137 






ADD 6% SALES TAX IN CALIFORNIA AND $1.00 SHIPPING & HANDLING FOR ORDERS 
LESS THAN $20. ADD *% FOR VISA OR M.C. 

J B ENGINEERING 



New 
Robotype 



Turns your 
\ typewriter 

m \ into a 
I quality 

m g output 



printer! 



• easily connects to any computer 

• serial and parallel interface 

• all electronics included— ready to use from package 

• connects to IBM Selectric II typewriter in just one minute 

• adapts to a variety of typewriters — no modifications 

• compatible with Radio Shack TRS-80, Apple II, Pet, etc. 

• Centronics interface compatible 

• available from stock in 30 days 

Put a Robotype to work on your typewriter for under 
$1,000. Call (614) 927-5917 today! 



S\ Robotype 7 




(A trademark of a rvn j: £>t l 

Compu-Matics, Inc.) r^ypittu 

Computer 
Systems, Inc. 



P.O. Box 111 • 431 W. Broad St. • Pataskala OH 43062 



TOLL FREE ORDERING 




These Fine 
Products and More 




NORTHSTAR 

HRZ-1-16K-D 
HRZ-1-32K-D 
HRZ-2-32K-D 
HRZ-1-32K-Q 
HRZ-2-32K-Q 

RAM-16K 
RAM-32K 



ASM 



KIT 



1600. 1275. 

1995. 1580. 

2300. 1900. 

2300. 1750. 

2700. 2230. 



365. 
565. 



325, 
515. 



FPB-A 


285. 


220. 


MDS-A-D 


710. 


660. 


MDS-A-Q 


880. 


830. 


EXTRA DRIVE-D 


— 


350. 


EXTRA DRIVE-Q 


— 


525. 



HARD DISC SYSTEM CALL 
Most NorthStar computers come 
standard with real wood cover, 2 
serial ports, 1 parallel port, real 
time clock, disc operating system 
and NorthStar basic. 



TERMINAL 

SOROCIQ-120 

HAZELTINE1400 

HAZELTINE1500 

HAZELTINE1510 

TELEVIDE0912 

TELEVIDEO920 

PRINTERS 

BASE-2 

TI-810 

CENTRONICS-799 

NEC-5510 

NEC-5520 



760. 
760. 
940. 
1050. 
700. 
750. 



450. 
1580. 

970. 
2550. 
2800. 



SOFTWARE— DISCS— MISC 

AUTOSCRIBE 325. 

VERBATUMDISCS<1G) 28. 

5 FOOT RS-232 CABLE 20. 

10 FOOT RS-232 CABLE 25. 



WE WILL TRY TO BEAT ANY ADVERTISED PRICE 

A. E. I. 

4341 W. Commonwealth Ave Suite D 

Fullerton, Calif. 92633 
(714) 739-4701 (800) 854-6003 



THE BSSENCE 
of output quality 



Any IBM SELECTRIC®can be con- 
verted to produce high quality out- 
put at an affordable price! 

Interfaces directly to S100, Parallel, 
RS-232 or IEEE-488. 

Compatible with TRS-80, Sorcerer, 
Pet, Apple, Horizon, etc. 

Why be printer bound? Prices from 

$496 to $675. 

Call " ™ 

today. 




Backspace and Tab 
Available NOW! 



I 




Escon Products, Inc. 

. Mayhew Way, Suite 204 

Pleasant Hill, Ca., 94523 

(415) 935-4590 



Circle 160 on inquiry card. 



Circle 161 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 229 



Circle 162 on Inquiry card. 



More Printing Terminals 
From MICROMAIL . . . 




DIABLO 



Prints at 40 cps, using 88, 92, or 
96 char, metalized printwheels. 

Vertical resolution 1/48"; Horizontal 
1/120" Capable of proportional 
spacing, bidirectional printing, and 
graphics under software control. 

Bidirectional normal and direct tabs 
Left, right, top and bottom margins 



R.O. $2890.00 . 
KSR $3285.00 



mts 10, 12. 13.2, or 16.5 
laracters per inch, upper/lower 



DIABLO 



• 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, or 1 2 lines per inc 
IfiAfl 
JL^^zf • Friction feed, paper width to 1 5 



Uses plastic printwheel and prints at $999 00 

45 cps. Otherwise, shares identical Options: 

features with 1 650 including: _ Numerjc key pad - $80.00 

- Friction or tractor feed, up to _ Adjustable forms tractor - 

Wlde $130.00 

^.idge ribbon, fabric or carbon. 



R.O. $2745.00 
KSR $3140.00 





• Includes upper/lower case option. 

• Bidirectional printing at 1 50 cps. 

• Tractor-feed forms, 3" to 1 5" 
wide. 

$1599.00 

Options: 

— Forms length control —$100.00 

— Vertical Format Control with 
Compressed Print — $125.00 



TELETYPE 4 

• Prints 1 32 columns, upper/lower 
case with true descenders. 

• 30 character/second print speed. 
1 10-300 baud. 

• Uses 1 2" wide by 8.5" pinfeed 



Print position scale, paper guk 



$999.00 



We Also Represent the Following Manufacturers: 
SOROC TEC GTC 

Write or Call In for Our Free Catalogue! 



clYUCRQMfULJ 



MICROMAIL • 80 m • SANTA ANA, CA 92703 
(714) 731-4338 



TO ORDER: Send check or money order to MICROMAIL, P.O. Box 3297, Santa 

Ana, CA 92703. Personal or company checks requir 

nals in stock are shipped the business day after n 

equipment includes factory warranty. 

SHIPPING: We ship freight collect by Ul 

shipped by motor freight. Air and express delivery is available on all products 



May 12-13 

Data Communications, 

Worcester Polytechnic In- 
stitute, Worcester MA. This 
seminar is designed to help 
professionals develop an ef- 
fective data communications 
system. Network design, 
requirements, software, 
diagnostics, and controls are 
some of the issues that will 
be covered. The fee is $375, 
which covers everything ex- 
cept hotels. For information, 
contact Office of Continuing 
Education, Worcester 
Polytechnic Institute, 
Worcester MA 01609. 

May 13-15 

Microprocessors: New 
Directions for Mankind, 

Albuquerque NM. This 
symposium will deal with a 
variety of microprocessor 
applications. It is part of the 
Ideas in Science and Elec- 
tronics Show. Contact J 
Arlin Cooper, Div 2331, 
Sandia Laboratories, Albu- 
querque NM 87185. 

May 13-15 

Electro/80 Show and Con- 
vention, Hynes Auditorium 
and Boston Sheraton, 
Boston MA. This major 
show consists of presenta- 
tions and exhibitions by 
manufacturers in the elec- 
tronics and computer in- 
dustries. Contact Electronic 
Conventions Inc, 99 N 
Sepulveda Blvd, El Segundo 
CA 90245. 

May 13-16 

The 9th Annual Conference 
of MUMPS Users Group, Is- 
landia Hyatt House, San 
Diego CA. The meeting will 
bring together scientific, 
medical, and business pro- 
fessionals to discuss current 
research and application 
development in the use of 
MUMPS, a high-level 
language. Areas of participa- 
tion include paper presenta- 
tions, workshops and 
tutorials, and vendor ex- 
hibits. Contact Dr Jack 
Bowie, MUG 80 Program 
Chairman, The Mitre Corp, 
Mail Stop 641, 1820 Dolley 
Madison Blvd, McLean VA 
22102. 

May 14-16 

Carnahan Conference on 
Crime Countermeasures, 



Carnahan House, Lexington 
KY. This conference is 
devoted to the application 
of engineering and science to 
law enforcement, security, 
and crime prevention. 
Emphasis will be on effective 
research and development in 
computer security. 

Contact the Office of 
Continuing Education, Col- 
lege of Engineering, Univer- 
sity of Kentucky, Lexington 
KY 40506. 

May 19-22 
1980 National Computer 
Conference, Anaheim Con- 
vention Center, Anaheim 
CA. The conference pro- 
gram will include more than 
120 sessions covering com 
puting careers and educa- 
tion, office automation, and 
auditing in the area of 
management; computers in 
earth resource management, 
human services, and word 
processing; programming 
languages, design techniques 
and methodology, and voice 
simulation and recognition 
in software; earth resources, 
education, women and 
minorities in the computing 
discipline, as well as social 
implications; micro- 
computers and mini- 
computers, computer archi- 
tecture, and new concepts in 
memories. 

For information, contact 
American Federation of In- 
formation Processing 
Societies Inc, 1815 N Lynn 
St, Arlington VA 22209. 

May 21-22 

The 2nd Clemson Small 
Computer Conference, 

Clemson University, Clem- 
son SC. This conference will 
discuss applications in 
engineering, science, 
manufacturing, small 
business data processing, 
and education. Contact 
William J Barnett, Electrical 
and Computer Engineering 
Dept, Riggs Hall, Clemson 
University, Clemson SC 
29631. 

May 21-23 

Business and Personal Com- 
puter Sales-Expo 80, 

Philadelphia Civic Center, 
Philadelphia PA. This show 
is aimed at a wide range of 
interests in business and 
other fields that use com- 



Circle 163 on inquiry card. 



CMOS Memory IC's 

Reduce Power Supply Requirements & Heat by a factor of 100 

6504 CMOS 4K x 1 memory IC's $7.00 

The 6504 is plug compatible with TMS4044 & Nat. 5257 
651 4 CMOS 1 K x 4 memory IC's $8.00 

The 6514 is plug compatible with 2114's, RCA 5114 & Tl 4045 

Industry standard 2114 type pinout 

Common Data Input/Output 

Easy interfacing with multiplexed Bus uP's (8085) 



Circle 165 on inquiry card. 



BOTH CHIPS FEATURE: 
Low Power Standby 
Low Power Operation 
Fast Access Time 



<2.5mWMax 

< 35 mW/MHz Max 

< 300 nsec Max - Typical 200 nsec 



6508 CMOS 1 K x 1 memory IC's $4.00 
Low Power Standby < 1.25 mW Max 

Low Power Operation < 22 mW/MHz Max 
Fast Access Time < 260 nsec Max - Typical 1 60 nsec 

ALL ABOVE IC's FEATURE: 
TTL Compatible Input/Output 
Three State Outputs 
On Chip Address Registers 
Data Retention @ 2.0V Min. 
ALL CHIPS TESTED - 100% FUNCTIONAL - 30 DAY GUARANTEE 

DIGITAL GROUP Equipment Users 

KIT ASSEM 

32K memory boards with 16K of memory $284 $359 

32 K memory boards with 32 K of memory $508 $608 

These boards consume 1.25 Watts with 32K-Bytes of CMOS memory 

OTHER DIGITAL GROUP BOARDS AVAILABLE 

ROTA STROBES for monitoring & adjusting PHI-DECK Tape Speed 

Send Orders To: EMERGE SYSTEMS $4.50 each 

P.O. Box 2518 
Satellite Beach, Fl 32937 
Ph. 305-773-7878 

ALL ORDERS MUST BE PREPAID WITH CHECK OR M. O. 

Allow time for personal checks to clear - FL residents add 4% sales tax 




8" DISK CONTROLLER 

NOW— DOUBLE SIDED OPTION! 

• DOUBLES APPLE ][ STORAGE 

• APPLE DOS COMPATIBLE 

• SHUGART 800 OR 850 COMPATIBLE 

• IBM 3740 DATA ENTRY CAPABILITY 

• CP/M, UCSD PASCAL CAPABILITY 
Available at your local APPLE Dealer: $400. 



SVA> 



SORRENTO VALLEY ASSOCIATES 

11722 SORRENTO VALLEY RD. 
SAN DIEGO, CA 92121 



fir 



North star Horizon/Hard Disk 
Timesharing computer systems 

by 

micro mike's, inc. 



Micro Mike's interrupt -driven, bank switching timesharing is a natural evolutionary progression of the North Star 
Horizon computer's foresightful engineering. Taking advantage of the standard onboard features of the Horizon. 
TIME SHAVER. Micro Mike's timesharing/hard disk operating system, allows as many as seven users, each 
with 32K to 56K RAM, running different programs simultaneously in North Star BASIC or through CP/M* 2.0, a 
variety of programs and languages. As many as jour 26 megabyte (formatted) hard disk units can provide 104 
million characters (formatted) of lightning-quick external memory storage, working in conjunction with the 
Horizons double density /quad capacity 5 '/»" minifloppy drives. 

In stock: 

Complete North Star Horizon timesharing/hard disk computer systems, including: Zenith 1 1 9 intelligent CRTs 
(as many as seven per timesharing system): Shugart 26 megabyte (formatted) sealed -media. Winchester- 
type hard disk units (as many as four per system) 

Printers: 

NEC Spmwriter. Texas instruments Tl 610 and Tl 620. IDS440 Paper Tiger 

Micro Mike's has written a comprehensive selection of business application programs in North Star BASIC 
using a defined set of Common Subroutines (CSUB1 



JlMAfes 



Call or write for descriptive literature 

micro mike's, inc. 

905 South Buchanan 

Amarillo, Texas 79101 'U.S.A.* 

Telephone: (806) 372-3633 



making technology uncomplicated . . .for people 

"CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research 
Copyright 1960 Micro Mike's. Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. 



A Message 
to our Subscribers 



=^ 



From time to time we make 
the BYTE subscriber list 
available to other companies 
who wish to send our 
subscribers promotional 
material about their products. 
We take great care to screen 
these companies, choosing 
only those who are reputable, 
and whose products, services, 
or information we feel would 
be of interest to you. Direct 
mail is an efficient medium 
for presenting the latest 
personal computer goods and 
services to our subscribers. 

Many BYTE subscribers 
appreciate this controlled 
use of our mailing list, and 
look forward to finding 



information of interest to 
them in the mail. Used are 
our subscribers' names and 
addresses only (no other 
information we may have is 
ever given). 

While we believe the 
distribution of this 
information is of benefit to 
our subscribers, we firmly 
respect the wishes of any 
subscriber who does not want 
to receive such promotional 
literature. Should you wish to 
restrict the use of your name, 
simply send your request to 
BYTE Publications Inc, Attn: 
Circulation Department, 
70 Main St, Peterborough NH 
03458. Thank you. 



J> 



Circle 164 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 231 



puters and computer related 
products. Exhibitors will be 
giving demonstrations of 
equipment. Contact Produx 
2000 Inc, Roosevelt Blvd 
and Mascher St, 
Philadelphia PA 19120. 

May 23 

The Digital Computer 
Association Annual 
Meeting, Pacifica Hotel, 
6161 Centinela Blvd, Culver 
City CA. A slide show, 
followed by dinner and an 
evening program are the 
main events of the meeting. 
The price is $15 prepaid. 
Send reservations to Mary 
Rich, 731 Bayonne St, El 
Segundo CA 90245. 

May 24-25 

Amateur Radio and Com- 
puter Hobbyists Annual 
Convention, Cervantes Con- 
vention Center, St Louis 
MO. Speakers, presenta- 
tions, equipment displays, 
and a flea market will be 
featured. For more informa- 
tion, contact the Gateway 
Amateur Radio Assocation 
Inc, POB 68, Marissa IL 
62257. 



JUNE 1980 



June 2-5 

The 9th Annual Symposium 
on Incremental Motion Con- 
trol Systems and Devices, 

Ramada Inn, Champaign IL. 
Exhibition space is available 
for this conference. Contact 
Professor B C Kuo, POB 
2772, Station A, Champaign 
IL 61820. 

June 4-5 

Microprocessors: Hardware, 
Software, and Application, 

Holiday Inn, Boston MA. 
This course is recommended 
for technical professionals 
who need an understanding 
of microprocessors in rela- 
tion to their corporate and 
business careers. Contact 
Office of Continuing Educa- 
tion, Worcester Polytechnic 
Institute, Worcester MA 
01609. 

June 4-6 

Salon de I'Ordinateur Com- 
puter Show, Place Bonaven- 
ture, Montreal, Canada. This 
exhibition will feature over 
eighty manufacturers' hard- 




** f "?Lctf'* pG 



name: 
address: 


city: 

fty/V ELECTRONICS, 


state: zip: 

Dept.4-B 1020 W. Wilshire, Oklahoma City, OK 73116 



ware and software. 

For more information, 
contact Industrial Trade 
Shows of Canada, 36 But- 
terick Rd, Toronto, Ontario 
M8W 3Z8 CANADA. 

June 9-13 

Microcomputer Workshop, 

Carnegie-Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh PA. Engineers, 
research scientists, educators 
and managers will benefit 
from this course. It covers 
all aspects of microcom- 
puters and software. Hands- 
on training will be provided. 
The tuition is $585 and 
housing can be arranged. 
Contact the Post College 
Professional Education, 
Carnegie-Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh PA 15213. 

June 15-18 
International Summer Con- 
sumer Electronics Show, 
McCormick PI, McCormick 
Inn, and the Pick -Congress 
Hotel, Chicago IL. The Con- 
sumers Electronic Show 
(CES) will feature exhibits 
from many companies; 
seminars and discussions; 
and items ranging from 
television, tape recorders, 
telephones, translators, to 
computers, component 
systems, auto sound 
systems, and electronic 
games will be presented. 
Contact Consumer Elec- 
tronics Shows, Two Illinois 
Center, Suite 1607, 233 N 
Michigan Ave, Chicago IL 
60601. 

June 17-19 
Data Co mm, Palais des Ex- 
positions, Geneva 
Switzerland. Data com- 
munications and distributed 
data processing are the main 
themes of this conference 
and exhibition. Software 
development and tools, 
computer languages, mana- 
ging data communications 
systems, and definitions, 
concepts, and applications 
of data communications and 
distributed data processing 



are some of the topics that 
will be covered in the con- 
ference. 

For more information, 
contact Industrial and Scien- 
tific Conference Manage- 
ment Inc, 222 W Adams St, 
Suite 999, Chicago IL 60606. 

June 18-21 
Association for Computa- 
tional Linguistics, University 
of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia PA. The 
meeting will cover 
theoretical and 
methodological problems of 
computational linguistics, 
speech acts, analysis of 
multisentence texts, dialog, 
machine translation and 
computational semantics. 
For further information con- 
tact Don Walker, Artificial 
Intelligence Center, SRI In- 
ternational, 333 
Ravenswood Ave, Menlo 
Park, CA 94025. 

June 20-22 

The 5th Annual Com- 
puterfest, Franklin Univer- 
sity, Columbus OH. Spon- 
sored by the Midwest Affi- 
liation of Computer Clubs, 
this is a gathering of inter- 
ested hobbyists, profes- 
sionals, and business- 
oriented computer users. 
Workshops and discussions 
are the main feature of the 
conference. Contact James 
Crowley, 4008 Rickenbacker 
Ave, Columbus OH 43213. 

June 23-27 
First World Conference on 
Transborder Data Flow 
Policies, Rome, Italy. Legal 
and social implications, 
economic dimensions, 
regulatory environment, in- 
terdependence caused by 
global communications, and 
assessing the status of data 
flow developments are some 
of the topics that will be 
covered in this forum. Write 
to the Intergovernmental 
Bureau for Informatics, POB 
10253, 00144 Rome, 
ITALY. ■ 



In order to gain optimum coverage of your organization s com- 
puter conferences, seminars, workshops, courses, etc, notice should 
reach our office at least three months in advance of the date of the 
event. Entries should be sent to: Event Queue, BYTE Publications, 
70 Main St, Peterborough NH 03458. Each month we publish the 
current contents of the queue for the month of the cover date and the 
two following calendar months. Thus a given event may appear as 
many as three times in this section if it is sent to us far enough in 
advance. 



232 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 166 on inquiry card. 



Circle 167 on inquiry card. 



Viiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiKiiiiiiiiiiiig 



1 

1 



TRS-80* PERIPHERALS 



DISK DRIVES 

40 tracks, with power 
supply & case and cable 
VERBATIM DISKETTES 
DYSAN DISKETTES 



$3.00 
$4.60 



16k MEMORY KITS 

for TRS 80, APPLE, SORCERER 

w/jumpers and instructions 
ONE YEAR GUARANTEE!!!!! 



TRS 80 computers in stock! I 



PRINTERS from 
CENTRONICS, INTREGAL 
DATA. NEC SPINWRITER, 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS. 
ALL AT GREAT SAVINGS!! 



We also carry APPLE, SORCERER, PET. SO SALES products. WE WILL NOT BE UNDERSOLD. 



GAMES 



TRS 80 SOFTWARE 

UTILITIES 



BUSINESS 



HI $14.00 

nim robots that wink and respond. 
Excellent graphics and sound. 
STAR TREK 111 $14.00 

Travel through the galaxy on the 
Enterprise and destroy kilingons. 
New updated version. 
AIR RAID $ 14.00 

Real time shooting gallery. 
SARGON:CHESS $19.00 

Best chess for TRS 80 
LIBRARY 100 $49.00 

1 00 games, utilities, and business 
programs in one package. 
Great value! 

ADVENTURE $14.00 

disk $24.95 



$99.00 

Enhanced DOS. Contains many 
improvements over TRSDOS. 7 
useful utilities built in. For 40 
track use also. 

NEWDOS $49.00 

Same as above without utilities. 
SYSTEM INTEGRATION TEST 

$29.00 

tests memory, disk drives, and 

printer $99.00 

MICROSOFT FORTRAN $325.00 

CPM $150.00 

RENUMBER $14.00 

disk 

G2 LEVEL III 
FORTH by MMS 
GSF by RACET 



$17.00 
$49.00 
$65.00 

$24.00 



GL, AR, AP. PAYROLL INTERAC- 
TIVE $350. reports include 
unbilled invoices, open/closed 
accounts, ageing. Trial balance, 
income statement, balance sheet. 
Handles 200 accounts, 1750 
transactions. 

Stand alone of each $95 

INVENTORY II $99.00 

activity listing, complete listing, 
selected listing, minimum quantity 
search, 1000 items per disk 
ALL ABOVE PROGRAMS 
BY SBSG 

ELECTRIC PENCIL $99.00 

by Michael Shrayer 

disk $ 1 50.00 

BEST word processor for the 
TRS-80 



r The above list is just a brief summary of some of our most popular software. We have a large selection of other 

i software for many uses and for many computers. Documentation for any of our programs is available on re- 

3 quest. If you have any questions, please call. We would like to hear from you. 

| 70 ORDER, CALL OR WRITE: 



MIDWEST COMPUTER PERIPHERALS 




PO Box 437 
WILMETTE. IL 60091 NEW YEARS J 

Order Desk (800) 323-4335 
Info & IL residents 
= C.U.D. (312)251-5028 

2 ; over > iuu 

- * TRS- 8 is a Regis tered Trademark of Tandy Corp . ^ — — ————— — — — — J 

5imiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiii mini i iiiiniiR 



SPECIAL 

10% Discount on j 

all Software orders \ 

over $100 { 



I J m | 

i m P aaW. 



OAE'S new PP-2708/16 
PROM Programmer is the 
only programmer with all 
these features: 

• Converts a PROM memory 
socket to a table top pro- 
grammer: No complex inter- 
facing to wire — just plug it 
into a 2708 memory socket* 

• A short subroutine sends 
data over the address lines 
to program the PROM 

• Programs 2 PROMS for less 
than the cost of a personal- 
ity module. (2708s and TMS 
2716s) 

• Connect 2 or more in paral- 
lel — super for production 
programming 

• Complete with DC to DC 
switching invertor and 10 



Circle 168 on inquiry card. 



turn cermet trimmers (for 
precision pulse width and 
amplitude alignment) 

• All packaged in a handsome 
aluminum case 

PP-2708/16 . .A & T$325. 

PP-2716 (Programs Intel's 
2716) A & T $295. 



OAE 

Oliver Advanced Engineering, In 

676 West Wilson Avenue 

Glendale, Calif. 91203 

(213) 240-0080 



SORCERER 
SOFTWARE! 



All programs on cassette. Only 8K of memory required. 




MARTIAN INVADERS'" by James Albanese How long can you hold out against a 
persistent invasion force from Mars 7 Zap all the members of the landing party and 
another group comes after you. The longer you hold out, the higher your score. The 
Sorcerer's programmable graphics make this game look great, plus we've added special 
keyboard routines to really zip it up. Written in machine language. $14.95 

NIKE IT" by Charles Finch and Bob Broffel. You may never get your computer back 
from your kids once they start playing Nike II. The ob|ect is to destroy enemy bombers 
by firing Nike missiles at them. If you miss the bombers, they bomb your factories and 
return for a second pass. Nine levels of play make this game a challenge for everyone. 
Written in machine language $11.95 

TANK TRAP by Don Ursem. An action game that combines skill, strategy, and luck A 
rampaging tank tries to run you down. You are a combat engineer, building concrete 
barriers man effort tocontainthe tank. Four levels of play makethisammated game fun 
for everyone. Written in BASIC with machine language subroutines. $11.95 

DPX™ (Development Pac Extension) by Don Ursem. Serious Z80 program developers 
will find this utility program to be invaluable. Move the line pointer upward. Locate a 
word or symbol. Change a character string wherever it occurs. Simple commands allow 
you to lump directly from EDIT to MONITOR or DDT modes and automatically set up the 
1/0 you want for listings. Built-in serial printer driver. Stop and restart listings. Abort 
assembly with the ESC key. Save backup files on tape at 1200 baud. Load and merge 
files from tape by file name Versions for 8K, 16K, 32K, and 48K Sorcerer. Requires 
Exidy Development Pac $29.95 

QS SMART TERMINAL by Bob Pierce Convert your Sorcerer to a smart terminal Used 
with a modem, this program provides the capability for you to communicate efficiently 
and save connect time with larger computers and other microcomputers. 

The program formats tncommg data from time-sharing systems such as The Source 
for the Sorcerer Video. Incoming data can be stored (downloaded) into a file in RAM, 
Files, including programs, may be saved to or loaded from cassette, listed on the video, 
printed, transmitted out through your modem, or edited with an onboard text editor. 
The text editor includes commands to delete and insert lines and to find or change 
character strings. Many other features are included, and all features are thoroughly 
documented. $49.95 

PLOT by Vic Tolomet. High res and low res modes $14.95 

SHAPE MAKER™ by Don Ursem. An on-screen character maker $14.95 

DEBUG by Bob Pierce Debug machine language programs. $14.95 

Z80 DISASSEMBLER by Vic Tolomei. Decode machine language programs. $14.95 

FASTGAMMON 7 " by Bob Christiansen. A fast backgammon opponent. $19.95 

MAGIC MAZE™ by Vic Tolomei. A challenging maze game. $11.95 



SOFTWARE INTERNALS MANUAL FOR THE SORCERER by Vic Tolomei A must for 
anyone writing software for the SORCERER. Seven chapters. Indexed. Includes 
diagrams and software routines, 64 pages $14.95 




QUTILny SOFTWARE 

6660 Reseda Blvd., Suite 103, Reseda, CA. 91335 
Telephone 24 hours, seven days a week: (213) 344-6599 

WHERE TO GET IT: Ask your nearest Sorcerer dealer to see Quality Software's Sorcerer 
programs. Or, if you prefer, you may order directly from us. MasterCharge and Visa 
cardholders may telephone their orders and we will deduct $1 from orders over $19 to 
compensate for phone charges. Or mail your order to the address above. California 
residents add 6"" sales tax. Shipping Charges: Within North America orders must 
include $1.50 for first class shipping and handling. Outside North America the charge 
for airmail shipping and handling is $5.00 — payable in U.S. currency. 

*ThP name "SORCERER" has been trademarked by Fxirly Inr 



Circle 169 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 233 



Build a Low-Cost EPROM Eraser 



The common 1702A, 2708, and 
2716-type erasable programmable 
read-only memory devices (EPROMs) 
may be erased dozens of times and 
then reprogrammed, changing the 
internal bit pattern. The erasure is 
accomplished by exposing the silicon 
die to short-wavelength ultraviolet 
light through the quartz window. 
(The wavelength of the ultraviolet 
radiation in this instance is 2537 A.) 
National Semiconductor's recom- 
mended integrated dose (intensity 
times exposure) is 6 Ws/cm 2 (Watt- 
seconds per square centimeter). They 
recommend also that the exposure be 
triple the time for erasure found 
empirically. 

Light in the proper section of the 
ultraviolet spectrum for performing 
the erasure can be produced by sev- 
eral methods: molecular excitation, 
filtering of broad spectrum light, and 
fluorescence. The most economical 
way for generating a lot of ultraviolet 
light is by excitation, with or without 
filtering. 

Common low-pressure fluorescent 
lamps excite mercury vapor to pro- 
duce ultraviolet light. This light 
causes rare earth compounds on the 
tube walls to fluoresce in the visible 
spectrum. 

Several companies manufacture a 
low-pressure mercury vapor tube 
without the fluorescent rare earth 
compounds. Such tubes emit a high- 
intensity, short wavelength ultra- 



L B Goiter 

2702 Skyline Dr 

Grand Junction CO 81501 




Photo 1: The case for the EPROM eraser 
is made of two bread-baking tins hinged 
together with flexible material. Power 
supply components are mounted in one 
end of the upper tin. 




Photo 2: Holes were cut to allow mount- 
ing of a fuse, a 3-prong connector, and a 
switch (with an internal neon pilot lamp). 



violet light. As a bonus, they are easy 
to use, are relatively inexpensive, and 
have a long life (about 6000 hours). 
However, do not look at one while it 
is on. The light can damage your 
eyes. 

Construction 

I set out to build an eraser for the 
erasable programmable read-only 
memories using one of the low- 
pressure, mercury-vapor ultraviolet 
tubes. As an enclosure for the device, 
I used two aluminum bread-baking 
tins with dimensions 24.5 by 14 by 7 
cm ( 9% by 5y 2 by 2% inches). I fas- 
tened the two tins together along the 
long side with a hinge made of flexi- 
ble material. I cut holes in one end of 
the assembly to mount a fuse, a 
power switch, and a connector for 
power supply. Photo 1 shows the 
completed box; photo 2 shows a close 
view of the power control com- 
ponents mounted in their holes. 

To provide strong support for the 
somewhat delicate ultraviolet lamp, I 
built a support for it on a piece of 
sheet aluminum cut to fit inside the 
bread tin with about 1.3 cm (one-half 
inch) clearance on each side. Two 
blocks of wood are attached by 
screws to the bottom of the tin and 
support the sheet of aluminum. The 
lamp tube is supported and raised 
about 2.5 cm (an inch or so) off the 
surface by a combination of standoff 
insulators and cable tie-down 



234 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 170 on inquiry card. 



iF 



J^>^>^>^v^jv=.^g-T^v^^s^^;=><s><.»<><3^><>< x_x: 



< 



ft** 




CO 



>Mt 



* COMP^ 



4f >< O v *4> 

TRS-80 PET SIOO 
APPLE KIM AIM65 

INEXPENSIVE CONTROL SOLUTION FOR 

HOME SECURITY • ENERGY CONSERVATION 

GREENHOUSES ■ ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL 

INDUSTRIAL CONTROL ■ LABORATORIES 

WITH CLOCK AND CALENDAR 



CidC'smDAC system now includes an interface to the BSRX- 10 remote 
control modules. These low-cost modules allow control over lamps, 
motors and appliances. With the CmC X-10 interface your computer can 
control 256 separate devices. Lamps can be turned on or off, dimmed or 
brightened. Alarms, kitchen appliances, hi-fis, TVs, motors, pumps, 
heaters and more can be put under your computer's control. 

Direct plug-in and software for most computers. 

Includes a clock, calendar, digital inputs and digital outputs. 

Circle the reader service number, call or write for our latest catalog. 

O CONNECTICUT microCOMPUTER , Inc. 

(CTfi fr*> ISO POCONO ROAD 

C BROOKFIELD, CONNECTICUT 06804 

TEL: (203) 775-9659 TWX: 710-456-0052 



x xxxxxxxxxx>vhx: 



:>t>: j<x x x x x xxMA 



THE BRAND NEW m 

EXCEL TX-80 fc ML 

DOT MATRIX PRINTER ^^^^^KP 

prices llr,fc n l | mm 

TOO LOW ^^^^i^^F 

TO ADVERTISE ^^^r 

STANDARD FEATURES: 

• 80 columns on plain paper with adjustable paper width 

• 150 Characters per second (70 LPM) throughput 

• 7X5 dot matrix, 96 ASCII set (upper & lower case) plus 
7X6 dot matrix PETs* graphic set 

• Centronics compatible parallel interface plus your choice of 
a TRS-80*, Apple II*, IEEE 488 or RS232C IF 

• Microprocessor control with 2716 EROM character set 

• Double width elongated printing for labels 

• New improved sound dampening foam lined casing 

• Tractor Feed & Friction Feed Version not interchangable 

• 90 days warranty for parts and labor 

OPTIONAL INTERFACE BOARDS & CABLE SETS: 

• PET/CMB*, 2K Buffer/RS232C, Loadable RAM full graphics 
interface available at extra cost 

• Cable sets for each interface are at extra cost 

CALL or SEND for free brochure & price list. 

TERMS: 

• Checks. Master Charge 
and Visa accepted • Allow 
up to 4 weeks for delivery 

• Please add $15 per 
printer for shipping & 
handling • Calif residents 
add 6% sales tax 



EXCEL COMPANY 

MICRO COMPUTER SYSTEMS 

618 GRAND AVENUE 

OAKLAND, CALIF. 94610 

(415) 465-4240 

We are the original PET* Keyboard 
Interface people 

* Trade Marks of Commodore, Apple & Tandy Corp. 



More guaranteed software from Data Access Corporation. 

TRS-80 MODEL II 

DataBank 

DATA MANAGEMENT & 
REPORTING SYSTEM 



Interactive Data Base Definition 

Hashed Random Access To Any Record 

Fast Assembler Sorting On Any Field 

Interactive File Maintenance Routines 

Reports Can Be Sorted, Selected, Ranged 

Interactive Report & Query Definition Program 

Includes Data Manipulation Subroutines 

INKEY Data Entry/Prompting Routines 

BASIC & Assembler Source Included 

Sample Data & Programs Included 

User Defined Screen Formatting 

Runs On 1, 2, 3 or 4 Drives 

Put the TRS-80 Model II to work with DataBank! 
Within hours you can define your data base, and 
be entering data & generating reports! Keep in- 
ventory data, mailing lists, client files, personnel 
or medical/dental records. You can organize your 
company's data and create versatile, readable 
reports without programming a single line! Then 
build custom application programs using Data- 
Bank's comprehensive library of user sub- 
routines. 

DataBank: $189 



MODEL II APPLICATIONS PROGRAMS 
AVAILABLE SOON 

COMPLETE LIBRARY OF MOD I 

BUSINESS APPLICATIONS ISAM 

DATA MANAGEMENT SYSTEM FOR 

MOD I: $175 



All Data Access software requires a licensing agree- 
ment. Licensed programs are guaranteed to load and 
execute on operational systems, and to be free from 
programming defects. 



DEALER & SYSTEMS HOUSE INQUIRIES INVITED 

Call or Write for information: 

DATA ACCESS CORPORATION 

4221 Ponce De Leon Blvd. 
Coral Gables, FL 33146 
Phone: (305) 446-0669 



* TRS-80 is a registered trademark of Radio Shack 



Circle 171 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 235 



Circle 173 on inquiry card. 




VAK-1 MOTHERBOARD 



PRICE: $139.00 

We also carry the SYM-1 
Microcomputer with manuals $229.00 



• Designed specifically for use with the AIM-65, SYM-1, and KIM-1 microcomputers 

• Standard KIM-4* Bus 

• Fully buffered Address and Data Bus 

• Provides 8 expansion board slots 

• Complete with rigid card-cage 

• All IC's are socketed 

• Provides separate jacks for one audio-cassette, TTY, and Power 

• Completely assembled (except for card-cage) 
We manufacture a complete line of high quality expansion boards. Use reader service 
card to be added to our mailing list, or U.S. residents send $1 .00 {International send $3.00 
U.S.) for airmail delivery of our complete catalog. 

* Product of MOS Technology 

ENTERPRISES 

. INCORPORATED 
2967 W. Fairmount Avenue • Phoenix, AZ 85017 • (602) 265-7564 




devices. Photo 3 shows the tube 
mounted on its support structure. 

Electrical power is supplied to the 
lamp through wires soldered to each 
of the miniature 2-pin contacts on the 
ends of the lamp. Because a potential- 
ly deadly voltage is present on the 
pins whenever the unit is plugged in, I 
insulated the pins thoroughly with 
heat-shrink tubing and silicone 
sealant. The wires were fed through 
holes in the aluminum baseplate/ 
reflector. 

Electrical Assembly 

Figure 1 shows a schematic dia- 
gram of the electrical connections 
needed to operate the lamp. The 
remaining electrical components are 
mounted in the bread tin under the 
support plate of the lamp. The ballast 
and starter mechanism are secured to 
the tin with screws. The bread tins are 
connected to ground through the 
3-conductor power cord; this is an 
important step to assure safety. Be 
sure that both halves of the case are 
grounded. Also, be careful to direct 
the hot side of the power line to the 
fuse and switch. An 82 k-ohm resistor 
limits the current in the circuit of the 



-» 




o — «- 

O «r 



J 



€ 



82K 



NE2 



BALLAST 



Fl 



SW 



«T 



Ih 



Figure 1: Schematic diagram of the elec- 
trical connections needed to operate the 
ultraviolet lamp. 



1 F6T5/BLB 6 watt ultraviolet lamp 

1 89G435 (General Electric) 4,6,8 watt ballast 

1 FS-5 Fluorescent lamp starter 4,6 or 8 watt 

1 #380 (Leviton) Starter Socket 

2 (9% x 5% x 2%) aluminum bread tins 

Miscellaneous wire, hardware, hinges, switches, fuse, and I EC cord and socket, 
Table 1: List of parts needed to build this EPROM eraser. 



The H8 is NOT DEAD 



Some H8 owners may have been disturbed by the report of Sol 
Libes on page 16 of the February Byte : "Heath has discontinued 
production of this unit." But quick comfort was available to 
subscribers to Buss: The Independent Newsletter of Heath Co. 
Computers. By February 2 they could call in for a recorded 
bulletin reminding them: "Don't forget that everything in a 
magazine is at least two months old. The November Buss 
carried a denial of this story and news of the future of the H8." 
The same bulletin described two coming upgrades for the H9 
and four H8/H89 software products under $40. They included a 
compiler for the language 'C, a screen editor, a Z80 assembler, 
and a program for use with time-sharing systems. 

Since April 1977 Buss has often been first with news of 
interest to owners of Heathkit® computers. It features 
compatible hardware and software from other vendors. It 



emphasizes candid accounts of readers' experiences with their 
systems. In January Buss circulation passed 2500— a valuable 
information base. 

Buss is mailed first class (by air mail outside North America). 
You have the choice of starting with the latest issue or 
available back issues (about 12). Payment must be in U.S. 
dollars payable on a U.S. bank. Full refund guaranteed if not 
satisfied. 

Issues: 12 18 24 

U.S. & Canada $ 9.97 $14.60 $17.95 

20.00 25.00 



Overseas 



15.00 

Buss 

325-B Pennsylvania Ave., S.E. 

Washington, DC 20003 



236 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 174 on inquiry card. 



Circle 177 on inquiry card. 



Circle 175 on inquiry card. 



Main/Frames , ., $200 



Main/Frames $200 



» 1 4 Basic Models Available 

► Assembled & Tested 

► Power Supply: 
8v@15A, ± 16v@3A 

► 15 Slot Motherboard 
(connectors optional) II 

► Card cage & guides r 

► Fan, line cord, fuse, power 
& reset switches, EMI filter 

► 8v@30A, ± 16v@10A 
option on some models 



Rack 
r mounted 
Main/Frame 



8 Floppy Matn/Frc 

(includes power for 
drives and main/frames) 



Write or call for our 
brochure which includes our 

application note: 
'Building Cheap Computers' 

INTEGRAND 

8474 Ave. 296 • Visalia, CA 93277 • (209) 733-9288 
We accept BankAmertcard/Visa and MasterCharge 





FULL COLOR 

GRAPHICS 

The original 256- color imaging system with 
high resolution video FRAME GRABBER 
for the S- 100 bus. 

Capture and digitize a video frame in 1 /60 of a 
second. Select the best resolution for your 
application, from 256 to 1280 pixels 
per TV line. Display your digitized 
or computer processed image 
with 256 gray levels or 256 
colors on standard 
B&W, NTSC or RGB 
color TV monitors. 





Compact two-board 
basic system 



Jiff Features: 



480x512 Computer-generated 



E 



• Highest possible quality 480x512x8 digital video 
Image presently available on the market 

• Input capability from TV camera or other sources 

• Variety of synchronization choices 

• 2 selectable video A/D conversion circuits 

• Choice of 1, 2. 4, 8. 16 or 32 bits per pixel 

• 32K-byte image memory on the basic system 

• 32, 64, 128 & 256K byte system capacity 
a Ughtpen input 

• Photographic trigger control input 

• Software selectable system parameters 

• Interfaces for TRS-80 and other processors 

• Comprehensive line of accessories, monitors and 
support software 

SEND FOR FREE CATALOG 



i DIGITAL GRAPHIC SYSTEMS 

! 441 California Ave., Palo Alto, CA 94306 



415/494-6088 



PROFESSIONAL CP/M* SOFTWARE 



These are superb professional quality 
implementations usually found on larger 
computers. Thorough documentation 
accompanies every DataArt product so you 
will be "up and running" immediately. In 
addition, all packages are delivered with 
CRT drivers for your terminal. 



SOFTWARE 




Microsoft® 


Microsoft® 


PRODUCT t 


C BASIC 


COBOL 


BASIC 


• Payroll 


$250 


$500 


$350 


• Accounts Receivable 


250 


500 


350 


# Accounts Payable 


250 


500 


350 


• General Ledger 


250 


500 


350 


• Bowling Secretary 


350 


350 


350 


• Program Chain Utility 


95 


95 


95 


• CRT Manager Utilities 


250 


250 


250 


• Data Communications 


contact us 


- many protocols available 


Accounting packages based on Osborne Publications. 


* CP/M is a trademark of Digital Research Corporation, 


t Many software packages also available for North Star 


Computers 










f "where software is stilJan art" 

DataArt Inc. 

21162 Lorain Road 

Fa irview Park, Ohio 44126 

(216)333,2232 



6809! 



INTRODUCING THE 
NEW STATE-OF-THE-ART 
IN MICROCOMPUTER 
SOFTWARE. 

Call or write today for our 
free catalog. 

MICKOMARE 



5835 Grand Ave. • P.O. Box 4865 
Des Moines, I A 50304 • 515/279-8844 



Circle 176 on inquiry card. 



Circle 302 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 237 



NE-2 pilot lamp in the switch. Photo 
4 shows the components mounted in 
the bread tin among the baseplate 
supports. 

I tested the device with a standard 
ohmmeter, checking for high resis- 
tance across the power plug. Having 
found this, I subjected the apparatus 
to a successful smoke test (that is, no 
smoke). I observed the starter takes 5 
seconds or less to ignite the lamp in 
normal operation. 

Conclusion 

When operating the erasing device, 
it is a good idea to wrap opaque tape 



around the crack between the two 
bread tins. This should prevent 
possibly harmful ultraviolet radiation 
from leaking out and damaging your 
vision. Remember also, for safety's 
sake, that careful insulating of high 
voltage lines and grounding of all 
parts is very important. 

I started to make a table of expo- 
sure indices for various erasable read- 
only memory devices, but I found 
that 30-minute exposure completely 
erased all bits in my tests, so I feel 
that this exposure interval is ade- 
quate. 

In operation, the device is placed so 




D M 

E I 

S C 

K R 

O 

T C 

O O 

P M 

P 

U 

T 

E 

R 



Chrislin is First ! ! ! 

with deliveries of DEC'S Desk Top Computers. 
Available with LSI 1 1/2 or LSI 1 1/23 CPU. Complete 
system totally enclosed within VT100 Video 
Terminal. Price $4,500 with LSI 11/2 and 64K bytes 
or $9,600 with LSI 11/23 and 256K bytes. 

NOW Available — PDP 11/23 with 256 KB Memory 
$8,900. 

SPECIAL — LSI 11/2 and 32K x 16 Memory $1,095. 

10 MEGA BYTE Cartridge Disk System with 
Controller, RT11 compatible $6,100. 



€ 




Photo 3: The ultraviolet lamp tube is sup- 
ported on its aluminum baseplate by 
insulating standoffs and cable ties. 




Photo 4: Blocks of wood support the lamp 
baseplate. Between the blocks are 
mounted the lamp starter and ballast 
devices. 



that the lamp is in the upper half. The 
memory integrated circuits are placed 
in the empty lower half for exposure. 
An added benefit of this empty half is 
that it makes a convenient storage 
location for the detachable power 
cord between the times that you erase 
your memories. ■ 



Chrislin Industries, Inc. 

J 7 Computer Products Division 

31352 Via Colinas • Westlake Village, CA 91361 • 213-991-2254 



Editor's Note 

Ultraviolet light can damage your eyes, 
so it is important to avoid looking at a 
source of it while in operation. Observe due 
caution when operating the erasing device 
described in this article. 

Over several cycles of programming and 
erasure, the necessary erasure exposure of 
certain EPROM devices can increase. Thus, 
over a period of time you may have to 
lengthen exposure times to obtain good 
results. 

You may find more information about 
erasable read-only memory characteristics 
in "Program Your Next EROM in BASIC" 
by Steve Ciarcia (March 1978 BYTE, page 
84), and "Zapper: A Computer Driven 
EROM Programmer" by G H Gable 
(December 1978 BYTE, page 100).... RSS 



238 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc . 



Circle 178 on inquiry card. 



S-100 

4-Channel Serial 
Interface 



Economical interface flexibility for the 
advanced amateur or small business 
computerist 

■ Industry standard LSI UARTS 

■ 8 reversible status and data ports 

■ Optically isolated current loop operation 

■ Independent channel operation — 
RS-232, 20mA or 60mA current loop 

■ On-board crystal time base 

■ One year defect and workmanship 
warranty 

*249 50 Plus $1 50 postage and handling in the US. 

MTALABSINC 

1091 1 Dennis Drive t Suite 405 Dallas. Texas 75229 

(214)241-1090 

Dealer Inquiries Welcome 



Circle 179 on inquiry card. 



DISCOUNT PRICES 

NORTH STAR 

APPLE II 

POLYMORPHIC 

INTERACT 

HAZELTINE 

SOROC 

CENTRONICS 

MICROTEK 

INTERTUBE 

& Others 

Call for Prices 
(301 ) 694.8884 

FREDERICK COMPUTER 
PRODUCTS 

Municipal Airport 
Frederick, MD. 21701 




EVERY MONTH 



BUY, SELL OR TRADE ALL TYPES OF 
COMPUTER EQUIPMENT AND SOFT- 
WARE (pre-owned and new) among 
20,000 readers nationwide in BIG 
(11x14") pages. Classified ads are 
only 10* per word and are indexed for 
easy and fast location. Subscription: 
$10 a year/12 issues. Bank cards ac- 
cepted. Money back guarantee. 

CQi7TPUT5R SHOPPSR 

P.O. Box F-14 

Titusville, FL 32780 

(305)269-3211 



Circle 180 on inquiry card. 




H9 OWNERS! 



Now you too can have graphic capa- 
bilities similar to those of the TRS 80 
with GRAFIX. No modification to ex- 
isting circuit boards is required. 
GRAFIX simply plugs into existing IC 
sockets. 

Comes with complete instructions. 
Full 6 month warranty. 

Kit $59.95 

Assembled and tested $69.95 

Northwest Computer 

Services, Inc. 
8503 N.E. 30th Avenue 
Vancouver, WA 98665 



Circle 181 on inquiry card. 



cio SHORT 

CASSETTES 



.id. I 




■■ tmm : HP ' : ^^^^ lJP . 


m 1 




' 





Circle 182 on inquiry card. 



Circle 183 on inquiry card. 



Qty. Price 

1 $1.00 

10 $0.75 

50 $0.65 



Premium tape and cassettes acclaimed 
by thousands of repeat order microcom- 
puter users. Price includes labels, cas- 
sette box and shipping in U.S.A. VISA 
and M/C orders accepted. California 
residents add sales tax. Phone (415) 
968-1604. 



MICROSETTE CO. 

475 Ellis Street 
Mt. View, CA 94043 



Circle 184 on inquiry card. 



Texas Instrument 99-4 Computer 


$ 390. 


TI 810 Printer 


$1590. 


Centronic Printers: 




730-1 Parallel 


$ 799. 


730-2 Serial 


$ 859. 


779-1 Friction Feed 


$ 990. 


779-2 Tractor Feed 


$1090. 


Comprint 912 Par 


$ 475. 


912 Ser 


$ 549. 


Anadex with Par & Serial Interface 


$ 799. 


Commodore Business Machines: 




PET 2001 -8K Computer 


$ 695. 


PET200M6K 


$ 895. 


PET2001-32K 


$1090. 


PET 2022 Trac. Fed Printer 


$ 759. 


PET 2023 Frig. Fed 


$729. 


$75. Free Software with PET Machines 


Intertec Superbrain 




North Star Computer and Ace. 




•• Save$ Save $ ** 




Display Terminals: 




Intertube II 


$ 775. 


Hazeltine 1400 


$ 690. 


1410 


$ 785. 


1500 


$ 990. 


Immediate Delivery from Stock. 




Multi-Business Computer System 




28 Marlborouah Street 




flM Fortland, Conn, Ub4HU 
1 1 (203) 342-2747 


WB 





List 


Only 


$1999 


61585 


2399 


1905 


2765 


2195 


2799 


2225 


3215 


2555 




49 




FREE 


8000 


6250 


1149 


949 


r 1549 


1299 




640 



Save More Than 80 

North Star— Intertube 

Thinker Toys— Microtek 

The Smartest Computers at the Smartest Price 

Quad & Double Density 

Horizon-l-32K-D Kit 
Horizon-2-32K-D Kit 

Assembled 8c Tested 
Horizon-2-32K Kit Quad 

Assembled 8c Tested 
Pascal for North Star on Disk 
Powerful North Star BASIC 
ZTEI PT 212 Computer 5 mHz 
Thinker Toys Discus/ 2D A&T 
Duscus/2 + 2 1.2 Megabytes A&T 1549 
Measurement system memory 
A&T 4mHz 64 K 
Godbout Memory Call for price 

Intertube II Smart Terminal 995 745 

Microtek Printer 750 675 

Anadex Printer 995 875 

Florida Data Printer 600 CPS 4300 Call for price 
Maryellen Word Processor Your Best Buy 38 
Textwriter III 

EZ-80 Tutorial Learn Machine Language 
PDS For North Star Better Than CP/M 
Compiler for Horizon Secret Superfast Code 

10% Off Software Prices With Computers 
Verbatim the Best Diskettes Box of 10 
Which Computers Are Best? Brochure. 
North Star Documentation Refundable 

W/HRZ 

American Square Computers 
Kivett Dr ' Jamestown NC 27282 

(9191-683-1105 



125 
25 
99 

100 

99 

FREE 
20 



S-100 A/D 




• S-100 Bus Compatible A/D 
Converter 

• 12 Bit Accuracy 

• 16 Channel Analog Input 

• Programmable Gain Amplifier 
with Sample-and-Hold 

• High Quality Commercial/ 
Industrial Construction 

2 and 4 Channel, 12 Bit D/A 
Boards also available. 

CALIFORNIA DATA 
CORPORATION 

34 75 Old Conejo Road, Suite CIO 
Newbury Park, California 91320 
(805/498-3651 




Circle 185 on inquiry card. 



Circle 186 on inquiry card. 



Circle 187 on inquiry card 






BYTE's Bits 



Bentley College Needs 
Computer Teachers 

In 1979, Bentley College 
began offering a Master of 
Science degree in Computer 
Information Systems and 



expanded its undergraduate 
degree program. The college 
is seeking applications from 
individuals who have a com- 
mitment to teaching excel- 
lence. Candidates must have 
knowledge of at least two of 



the following areas: ANSI 
COBOL, BASIC, RPG II, 
FORTRAN, distributed 
information systems pro- 
cessing, data communica- 
tion, file organization and 
structures, computer 



COMPUTER 
NETWORKING 



High quality networking demands high quality communica- 
tions. That's why the best computer companies recommend 
BIZCOMP intelligent Modems.™ They choose BIZCOMP for 
reliability volume delivery and speedy development of com- 
munications software. You'll choose BIZCOMP for features like: 

• Automatic Repeat Dialing 

• Self Test 

• Automatic Answer 

• Friendly, Conversational Interface 

• Automatic Baud Rate Acquisition 

• FCC Registered — Direct Connection 

• Bell 103 Series Compatible 

• UL/CSA Approved 

BIZCOMP's unique Code-Multiplexed Design enables com- 
plete control using a simple 3-wire RS-232 interface. With 
BIZCOMP attached, your "dumb" terminal acquires "intelligent" 
features with comm rates from 110, 134.5, 150, 200 to 300 
baud. See BIZCOMP's Intelligent Modems today at your local 
dealer, or write to us directly 

BIZCOMP Communications... why not start 
with the best? 

wmms? 

P.O. Box 7498 

Menlo Park, California 94025 

415/854-5434 

Suggested prices from $395.00 



240 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Patent Pending 



Circle 189 on inquiry card. 



auditing and controls, and 
business systems analysis 
and design. A completed 
doctorate or one near the 
final stages of completion is 
preferred. The teaching 
responsibilities will include 
nine to twelve hours of 
computer information sys- 
tems at the graduate and /or 
undergraduate levels. For in- 
formation, address John T 
Gorgone PhD, Professor and 
Chairman, Computer Infor- 
mation Systems Dept, or Dr 
John H Burns, Dean, 
Bentley College, Waltham 
MA 02154. 



Quality Research Group 
for Software 

An organization to serve 
the needs of the software 
industry has been formed. 
The goal of the Association 
of Software Producers and 
Publishers is to ensure the 
continuing availability of 
well-supported, quality soft- 
ware to computer users by 
providing a forum where 
common industry problems 
can be discussed and possi- 
ble solutions can be offered. 
The chairman of the asso- 
ciation, Jules Gilder, said 
that their first task is the 
education of the public con- 
cerning software piracy and 
its negative effects on the 
industry. Other areas of 
work for the association are 
standardization, coordina- 
tion with hardware manu- 
facturers, dissemination of 
information relevant to the 
industry, and legal aspects 
of software. All software 
producers and publishers 
who are interested in joining 
the organization are asked 
to contact Jules H Gilder, 
Association of Software Pro- 
ducers and Publishers, POB 
153, Rochelle Park NJ 
07662. ■ 




New from 
Vantage Data Products 

550 West 200 South 
Suite 8 & 

■Provo,Utah 84601 
(801)377-6687 >«§» 



Communications/Control CPU Card 

•CPU-Z-801KRAM 
16 bit interval timer and interrupt 
EPROM* 2708 standard (2716 optional) 

•Serial Communications RS-232 interface, 
UART Complete MODEM capability, 
programmable baud rates, etc. 

•Parallel 1/0-16 bits in (TTL), 16 bits Out (TTL) 

• Power - on and external reset 
*EPROM not included 

$195 assembled, tested, with warranty and 
documentation 

Immediate delivery from stock! 

All orders shipped prepaid 
MC. VISA, phone orders welcome 
Utah residents add 4 3 A sales tax 




IBM SELECTRIC 

BASED I/O TERMINAL 

WITH ASCII CONVERSION 

INSTALLED $645.00 

• Tape Drives • Cable 

• Cassette Drives • Wire 

• Power Supplies 12V15A, 12V25A, 
5V35A Others, • Displays 

• Cabinets • XFMRS • Heat 
Sinks • Printers • Components 

Many other items, SEND $1 .00 FOR CATALOG 
REFUNDABLE FIRST ORDER 
WORLDWIDE ELECT, INC. 
1 30 Northeastern Blvd. 
Nashua, NH 03060 

Phone orders accepted using 

VISA or MC 

Call 603-889-7661 



Floppys & 
Systems Repair 



DRIVES 

• Per Sci - Shugart 

• Pertec - Micropolis 

COMPUTERS 

• Apple - TRS-80 

Computer Service Center 

1023 N. La Brea 
Hollywood, CA 90038 

(213) 851-2226 



Circle 190 on inquiry card. 



Circle 191 on inquiry card. 



Circle 192 on inquiry card. 



GET CONNECTED 



Connect your S-100 BUS or 
TRS-80 system to the telephone 
network and turn it into a terminal. 
The /x-Phone© is absolutely all 
you need — it's not just a modem, 
not just a controller. 

Just plug the ^-Phone© into your 
processor and plug it's cable into a 
standard modular telephone wall 
jack and you're connected. 

The ji-Phone© is BELL 103 com- 
patible and F.C.C. registered. 

Another Fine Idea From 

I.D.E.A. 

850 Lexington St. 

Waltham, MA 021 54 

617-893-1368 




16K STATIC MEMORY (RAM) 

250 nsec Access Time, Assembled, 
tested, and Guaranteed. $285.00 

Fully Static - TMS 4044 

S-100 Bus - Buffered lines, Dip Sw address in 

2, 8K blocks 4K incr., Write Protect, Phantom 

disable. Battery backup, fully Socketed. 

Bank Select - Port 40 H (Cromemco Software 

Comp.}, 80 H or C0H. 

Guarantee - One full year. To order, call for 

Visa, M.C., or C.O.D. ($4 fee.) Personal check 

o.k. M.O. speeds shipping. Stock to 72 hour 

delivery. Illinois residents add 5V*% tax. 

S. C. DIGITAL 

P.O. Box 906, Aurora, IL 60507 
Phone: (312) 897-7749 



CASSETTE 
DUPLICATION 



TRS-80 (I & II), PET, APPLE, KIM, ATARI 

Quality software duplication is more 
than copying cassettes. Microsette du- 
plication uses a proprietary high speed 
duplicator designed specifically for 
computer program duplication. The fin- 
ished products are of consistent quality, 
guaranteed to load. Minimum order is 
100 with discounts for higher quanti- 
ties. Call (415) 968-1604 for details. 



F 



Circle 193 on inquiry card. 



Circle 194 on inquiry card. 



MICROSETTE CO. 

475 Ellis Street 
Mt. View, CA 94043 



-Circle 195 on inquiry card. 







The best choice 
in mainframes ! 

• S100 CARD FRAME • AXIAL BLOWER 

• 22 MHz 12" CRT MONITOR • ASSEMBLED & TESTED 

• 18 AMP POWER SUPPLY • READY FOR YOUR CARDS 
• S895 00 OEM QUANT ONE 



>Q 



OOU IMFIIMIT 



Circfe 196 on inquiry card. 



16 K RAMS & RAM CONTROLLERS 

16 K X 1 DYNAMIC RAMS MK4H6P3 

• 200 NSEC ACCESS/375 NSEC CYCLE TIMES 

• 16 PIN/TTL COMPATIBLE 

• ALL CHIPS BURNED IN AND FULLY TESTED 

• PRICE WITH DATA SHEET 

£68 GO IN QTY OF 8/THATS S8.50 EACH 

6800/6502 64K BYTE RAM & CONTROLLER SET 
MAKE 64K BYTE MEMORY FOR YOUR 6800 OR 6502 
THIS SET INCLUDES: 

• 32 M5K 4116-3. 16K X 1. 200 NSEC RAMS 

• 1 MC3480 MEMORY CONTROLLER 

• 1 MC3242A MEMORY ADDRESS MULTIPLEXER 
AND COUNTER 

. DATA & APPLICATION SHEETS. PARTS TESTED 
AND GUARANTEED. 

S295.00 PER SET 

DYNAMIC MEMORY CONTROLLER mcmml 

• GENERATES RAS/CAS & REFRESH TIMING FOR 
16K TO 64K BYTE MEMORIES 

• PRICE WITH DATE SHEET. 513.95 EACH 

MEMORY ADDRESS MUX/COUNTER MC3242AP 

• MUX ADDRESS & REFRESH COUNTER FOR 16K TO 
64K BYTE MEMORIES 

• PRICE WITH DATA SHEET; 512.50 EACH 

QUANTITY DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE 
ALL ORDEflS POSTPAID US FUNDS ON INTERNATIONA! 
ORDERS CHEEK OR MONEY ORDER. VISA BA.MC ALSO AC 
CEPIED SMOACCT.NO. EXPIRATION DATE & INTERBANK 
NO WITH SIGNED ORDER CAlIf RESIDENTS PLEASE ADD 
6S SALES TAX PHONE ORDERS (7l4i 633 4460 

MEASUREMENT SYSTEMS & CONTROLS, inc 



SUPPLIES 




• FLOPPY DISKS, MINI OR 

STANDARD MEMOREX OR 3M 

• 3M DATA CARTRIDGES 
OC300A, DC100A 

• 3M DIGITAL CASSETTES 

• 3M OR MEMOREX AUDIO 
CASSETTES, C 60 

• 3M0ISK CARTRIDGES 

WE OFFER: 
•COMPETITIVE PRICING 

• IMMEDIATE DELIVERIES 
(Any Quantity) 

• UNCONDITIONAL GUARANTEE 

BETA BUSINESS SYSTEMS 

8369 VICKERSST., #G 

SSAN DIEGO, CA 9211 
(714) 565-150S 



Circle 198 on inquiry card. 



What's New? 



PERIPHERALS 




The Root Beer Budget 
Hi-res Graphics Interface 

An enhanced, high-resolution (hi-res) 
version of the graphics interface de- 
scribed by Peter Nelson in the 
November 1976 BYTE, this unit pro- 
vides displays using a unique 
amorphous-silicon-dioxide and 



pressurized-fluid dedicated processor. 

Color can be uniquely defined within 
32 floating ocular-zones (32 fl oz), and 
resolution is specified to be at least 946 
million lines (946 ml). 

Contact Orphanode Hops Inc, POB 
463, Peterburrow NH 03458, Attn: 
Duncan MacKenzie. 

Circle 547 on inquiry card. 



Floppy-Disk Drives with 
96 Tracks Per Inch 

Micro Peripherals Inc is producing 
5-inch floppy-disk drives that read 
and write 96 tracks per inch. When 
combined with double data density and 
double-sided read /write features, the 
units can store nearly one megabyte on 
a 5-inch floppy disk. The Models 91 
and 92 disk drives are plug-compatible 
with existing systems. Disks recorded on 
the standard 48-track-per-inch format 
can be read on the 96-track-per-inch 
devices. The Model 91 can store 480 K 
bytes on a single side of a disk, and the 
Model 92 can store 960 K bytes using both 



Where Do New Products Items Come From? 

The information printed in the new products pages of BYTE is obtained 
"new product" or "press release" copy sent by the promoters of new products. If in 
our judgement the information might be of interest to the personal computing ex- 
perimenters and homebrewers who read BYTE, we print it in some form. We openly 
solicit releases and photos from manufacturers and suppliers to this marketplace. 
The information is printed more or less as a first in first out queue, subject to occa- 
sional priority modifications. While we would not knowingly print untrue or in- 
accurate data, or data from unreliable companies, our capacity to evaluate the pro- 
ducts and companies appearing in the "What's New?" feature is necessarily limited. 
We therefore cannot be responsible for product quality or company performance. 



sides of the disk. Both have an access 
time of 5 ms. 

The head assembly for the Model 92 
incorporates a fixed bottom head with a 
gimballed top head. This assembly pro- 
vides more than three million in-contact 
passes of the media over a single track. 
An automatic disk positioning and ejec- 
tor mechanism pre-positions the disk 
over the spindle hub before the clutch 
centering device is engaged. The units 
are available from Micro Peripherals 
Inc, 9754 Derring Ave, Chatsworth CA 
91311. The prices are $450 for the 
Model 91 and $550 for the Model 92. 

Circle 548 on inquiry card. 




Joystick Interface for 
TRS-80 

This joystick interface plugs into the 
expansion interface of the TRS-80 with 
no modifications. Three sockets allow 
the use of one Fairchild or two Atari 
joysticks for single or two-person inter- 
active games and input. Both types of 
joysticks can sense eight compass direc- 
tions; additionally, the Atari includes 
one push button, and the Fairchild 
features push-pull and twisting actions. 
Each interface comes with a separate 
power supply, two games and instruc- 
tions on programming the interface. The 
price is $65 plus $3.50 shipping and is 
available directly from Creative Soft- 
ware, POB 4030, Mountain View 
CA 94040. 

Circle 549 on inquiry card. 



Tele Video Introduces Four 
Video Terminals 




Tele Video Inc has introduced four 
microprocessor-controlled video ter- 
minals that include uppercase and lower- 
case, a printer port, numeric pad, 
remote computer control, selectable 
transmission rates from 75 to 9600 bits 
per second (bps), editing and other func- 
tions, a serial RS-232C interface, and a 
20 mA current loop. Editing and 
transmission functions are key-selectable 
and include character and line insert or 
delete, line and page erase, send-line, 
send-page, and tabbing. All models also 
offer reverse- video, underline, blinking 
and blanking, key-controllable conversa- 
tional and block transmission modes, a 
built-in self -test, protected fields, switch- 
selectable parity, and a 240-character in- 
put buffer. The terminals provide a 12 
by 10 dot matrix in a 24-line by 
80-character per line format. 

The 912B lists at $875, the 912C at 
$950, 920B at $945, and the 920C at 
$1030. For further information contact 
Tele Video Inc, 3190 Coronado Dr, 
Santa Clara CA 95051. 

Circle 550 on inquiry card. 



242 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



What's New? 



PERIPHERALS 



Digital Output Bar-Code 
Wand from Hewlett- 
Packard 




The HEDS-3000 is a digital wand 
designed to scan bar codes and output a 
logic level pulse-width representation of 
the bars and spaces. The device can be 
used for portable data entry and 
as peripheral equipment for microcom- 
puters. An analog amplifier, a digitizing 
circuit, and an output transistor provide 
TTL- and CMOS-compatible logic level 
output. The bar-code reader is a data 
entry alternative to the keyboard as a 
computer terminal accessory. It is priced 
at $99.50. Contact Hewlett-Packard Co, 
1507 Page Mill Rd, Palo Alto CA 94304. 

Circle 551 on inquiry card. 



New Peripherals for the TI-99/4 Computer 



An RS-232 interface for connecting 
serial peripherals to the TI-99/4 com- 
puter has been announced by Texas In- 
struments Inc, Consumer Relations, 
POB 53, Lubbock TX 79408. The inter- 
face converts the parallel data output of 
the TI-99/4 to a serial format. Using 
BASIC, the interface can be pro- 
grammed for different data transmission 
speeds. Connection to the two serial 
ports is through standard 25-pin male 
DB-25 connectors. The suggested retail 
price is $225. 

A disk drive controller and a 5-inch 
floppy-disk drive have also been 
developed for use with the system. The 
system can store up to 90 K bytes of 
memory, and up to 127 files may be 
defined. The controller can handle fixed 
and variable length records, and sequen- 
tial and relative files. Controller soft- 
ware supplies disk utilities, including disk 





and file maintenance commands. 

The controller has a suggested retail 
price of $300 and the drives are priced 
at $500 each. 

TI also has designed a thermal printer 
for use with the TI-99/4. The printer 
prints 32 columns in a 5 by 7 dot matrix 
at 30 characters per second (cps). It 
prints two character sets, and has 32 
predefined graphic symbols. The unit 
uses 8.8 cm (3.5 inch) thermal paper and 
retails for $400. 

A telephone modem has been designed 
for the system and the new interface. 
The modem is priced at $225, and a 
software support package is priced at 
$45. Circle 552 on inquiry card. 



Graphics Drawing System 
for Apple II 



The VersaWriter is a digitizer and 
software drawing package for the Apple 
II computer. When used as a pointer, 
the VersaWriter can direct movements 




of objects on the video screen for game 
playing or creating graphics. As a 
digitizer, the VersaWriter enters 
graphical data for analysis, flowcharts 
and diagrams. Drawings, architectural 
plans, schematics charts, and graphs can 
be created using the device. Sixteen 
commands control cursor movement, 
permit fill-in coloring, control horizontal 
and vertical scaling, centering on the 
screen, and more. The system consists of 
the VersaWriter drawing board and 
interface, software, calibration chart, 
and instruction manual. The drawing 
board plugs directly into the game port. 
An Apple II with 32 K bytes of memory 
and Applesoft read-only memory are 
required. 

The normal retail price for the Versa- 
Writer is $199, but a special price of 
$179.95 is offered while initial supplies 
last. For complete information, contact 
Rainbow Computing Inc, 9719 Reseda 
Blvd, Northridge CA 91324. 

Circle 553 on inquiry card. 



April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 243 



What's New? 



PERIPHERALS 



Rack-Mounted 
Alphanumeric Printer 

Kontron Electronic Inc, 700 S Clare- 
mont St, San Mateo CA 94402, has in- 
troduced the rack-mounted Model 5019 
Printer, which features a 64-character 
ASCII set. Character width is generated 
by control logic and can be changed 
during the printing. The unit prints up 
to 32 characters per line at up to two 
lines per second with a 5 by 7 dot 
matrix. A parallel or serial ASCII input 
or fully parallel binary-coded decimal 
(BCD) input mode may be selected. The 
printer measures 13.2 by 21 cm (5.22 by 
8.39 inches) and costs $235. 

Circle 554 on inquiry card. 



Video Terminal Emulates 
Burroughs Terminals 

The SRI/OPl-R microprocessor-based 
terminal can be configured to look like a 
Burroughs TD830, TD802, TD700 or a 
Teletype terminal using an 8 K byte pro- 
grammable read-only memory-based 
emulator. The SRI/OPl-R offers asyn- 
chronous, TDI, or synchronous com- 
munication interfaces at speeds ranging 
from 300 to 9600 bits per second (bps), 
and can interface with printers, bar-code 
readers, and other peripherals. The ter- 
minal can also support concurrent 
background printing, using a separate 
polling address which enables users to 
concurrently perform on-line entry func- 
tions while it prints output reports. The 
terminal is priced at $2595 and is 
available from Systems Research Inc, 
2400 Science Pky, Okemos MI 48864. 

Circle 555 on inquiry card. 




Comprint Offers an 
Enhanced Version of the 
912: the Model 912-GP 

The Comprint 912-GP electroresistive 
printer contains a feature that allows op- 
tional interfacing with nearly all of the 
microcomputers used in business, word 
processing, and personal applications, 
including the TRS-80 and the Apple II. 
The 912-GP is shipped with three 
separate connectors. The first is an 
Apple-compatible connector mounted on 
the board. Two additional connectors, 
one for the TRS-80 and the other for a 
Centronics-compatible port, are 
mounted on a flat ribbon cable attached 
to the board. The new printer provides 
a selection of four signals, which satisfy 
the requirements of most computers. 
This nonimpact printer prints at a speed 



of 225 characters per second on 
aluminized paper. It is priced under 
$1000. For additional information ad- 
dress Comprint, 340 E Middlefield Rd, 
Mountain View CA 94043. 

Circle 556 on inquiry card. 



Dot-Matrix Impact Printer 
for Small Business and 
Home Computers 




The Model 7000+ dot-matrix impact 
printer features 1.25 lines per second 
unidirectional printing, with a line speed 
of 1.25 lines per second. It accepts 



single- or multi-ply paper rolls from 2.4 
cm to 9.6 cm (0.75 to 3.85 inches) wide, 
and prints an 8.2 cm (3.3 inch) line. 
Capacity is 40 columns at 12 
characters per inch. The 7000+ print- 
head has a minimum life of 100 million 
characters, while the overall mechanism 
life of the unit is 10 million cycles. The 
printer interfaces include TRS-80 
parallel, Apple parallel, RS-232C, PET 
IEEE, current loop, and others. The 
7000+ accepts the full ASCII character 
set with uppercase and lowercase and 
can print in both a single- or a double- 
width font. The printer measures 18 cm 
high (6.5 inches) by 25.5 cm wide (10 
inches) by 32.5 cm deep (12.5 inches). It 
is made by LRC, an Eaton company, 
Technical Research Park, Riverton WY 
82501, and is priced at $389. 

Circle 557 on inquiry card. 



Expansion Interface for 
The Imagination Machine 

APF Electronics Inc, 444 Madison 
Ave, New York NY 10022, has an- 
nounced Building Block, an expansion 
interface for their computer, The Im- 
agination Machine. This interface is 
designed for interfacing printers, addi- 
tional memory, modems, and floppy- 
disk drives. It includes a cartridge with a 
standard RS-232 port, which meets EI A 
RS-232 specifications. Eight data rates 
are selectable from 110 to 9600 bps. The 
suggested price for the Building Block is 
$199.95. 

The 8 K byte programmable memory 
cartridge plugs into the interface and has 
a suggested retail price of $99.95. The 
floppy disk interface cartridge can drive 
two SVi-inch floppy-disk drives and has 
a suggested price of $199.95. The D-100 
SVi-inch floppy-disk drive has a storage 
capacity of 72 K bytes. It includes 
Shugart SA-400 compatibility, IBM for- 
matting of 256 bytes per sector, and a 
built-in power supply. It retails for ap- 
proximately $349.95. The P-40T 
40-column thermal printer has a speed 
of two lines per second and a suggested 
price of $399.95. The TM-150 Modem 
transmits at 300 bps. It has originate 
and answer modes, and allows half- or 
full-duplex operation. An AC adapter is 
included for the package price of 
$199.95. Circle 558 on inquiry card. 



244 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



What's New? 



SYSTEMS 



ADDS Enters the Business 
Market with Modular 
Computer Systems 

Applied Digital Data Systems Inc, 100 
Marcus Blvd, Hauppauge NY 11787, has 
developed a modular microcomputer 
system for professional offices, agencies, 
retail stores, and other small businesses. 
The basic system, Multivision 1, con- 
tains an 8085 microprocessor running at 
5 MHz, all input/output (I/O) and con- 
troller circuitry to operate the dual 
5-inch floppy-disk drives, and a stan- 
dard display terminal. Multivision 2 
adds an 8-inch Winchester disk drive 
with either 5-megabyte or 10-megabyte 
storage. Multivision 3 supports up to 
four display terminals with up to 256 K 
bytes of programmable memory and 
three more terminal ports. 

Some of the features of the central 
processing unit include: 256 bytes of 
nonvolatile (CMOS with battery power) 
memory for soft parameter control such 
as terminal data rates, stop bits, logging 
of diagnostic data, and applications use; 
direct memory access (DMA) capabilities 
for I/O to memory, memory to I/O, 
and memory-to-memory transfers. The 
unit also features 64 K bytes of dynamic 
programmable memory. All peripheral 




and interrupt control uses I/O hard- 
ware. 

ADDS produces a CP/M-compatible 
operating system, a BASIC compiler and 
interpreter with ISAM capabilities, 



business applications software, and 
word processing software. The price for 
the three Multivision systems are $3785, 
$7995, and $12,885, respectively. 
Circle 513 on inquiry card. 



The fi68 System X 
Microprocessor 




Based on the Motorola 6800 
microprocessor, System X was designed 
for technicians, engineers, and scientists. 
It can be used as a training system, or as 
a development tool by designers for cir- 
cuit designs and interfacing for industrial 
control and software development. The 
unit includes an 86-pin card edge con- 
nector for the microprocessor board and 
another connector for the memory 
board and lab series board. It features 
total compatibility with the Motorola 
EXORcisor bus. The price for the system 
is $775 f and it is available from ASCI 
Marketing Group, Suite 101, 27439 
Holiday Ln, Perrysburg OH 43551. 
Circle 514 on inquiry card. 



Single Board 

Microcomputer Uses 6809 
Processor 

The MIKUL 6809-3 is a single board 
computer that utilizes the Motorola 
MC6809 processor. The card includes 
two 6821 peripheral interface adapters, 
one 6840 programmable timer module, 
one 6850 asynchronous-communications 



interface adapter with RS-232C inter- 
face, 2 K bytes of static programmable 
memory with provision for battery 
backup, and sockets for four erasable 
programmable read-only memory 
(EPROM). The MIKUL 6809-3 is com- 
patible with EXORciser and 
Micromodule buses. It is available for 
$425 from TL Industries, 2573 Tracy Rd, 
Northwood OH 43619. 

Circle 515 on inquiry card. 



S-i00 Mainframe and Z80 
Board with 64 K Bytes of 
Memory 




CMC Marketing Corp, 10611 Harwin 
Dr, Suite 406, Houston TX 77036, has 
announced the Model 2018 Microcom- 
puter Mainframe System. The system 
consists of an eighteen-slot S-100 bus 
motherboard and cabinet; a constant 
voltage transformer that provides for input 
voltages of 120 or 230 VAC; and a 



double-pole circuit breaker that protects 
the input power. Secondary voltages are 
rated at +8 VDC at 20 A and 
± 16 VDC at 3.5 A. 

The Model Z80/64 computer and 
memory card features a Z80 
microprocessor and 64 K bytes of pro- 
grammable memory, plus provisions for 
2 K bytes of erasable programmable 
read-only memory and vectored inter- 
rupts. The board features transparent 
refresh and phantom memory, which 
allows programmable memory and read- 
only memory overlay. CMC Marketing 
Corp has also developed a controller 
board for double-density floppy- 
disk drives and is marketing software 
application programs for businesses. 

The price for the board is $1295. The 
price for the desktop mainframe $695. 
Circle 516 on inquiry card. 



April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 245 



Whaft New? 



PUBLICATIONS 



Positioning and Tracking 
Controls Catalog 




Measurement Systems Inc, 121 Water 
St, Norwalk CT 06854, is publishing a 
sixteen-page catalog of positioning and 
tracking-control products. The controls 
in the catalog are used in computer 
peripherals, radar and other displays, 
and to position apparatus. The products 
include joysticks, trackballs, control 
grips, and interface electronic circuits. 
Contact the company for a copy of the 
catalog. 

Circle 534 on inquiry card. 



New Hardware Documen- 
tation from Ohio Scientific 

Ohio Scientific (1333 S Chillicothe Rd, 
Aurora OH 44202) has introduced a line 
of paperback manuals documenting the 
boards used in OSI's computer systems. 
Each of the manuals, written by the 
Howard W Sams Company, contains 
schematics, labeled photographs with 
oscilloscope waveforms, integrated cir- 
cuit pinout diagrams, parts lists in- 
cluding equivalent replacement parts by 
manufacturer, and other information. 
Two books are available now: the 
TM-100 Servicing Data for Computer 
Boards 600 and 610, as used in 
Challenger Series Superboard II, Model 
CUP, and Model ClP-MF, 36 pages, 
$7.95; and the TM-200 Servicing Data 
for Computer Boards 502, 505, 527, 540, 
and 542, as used in Challenger Series 
Model C4P and C4P-MF, 92 pages, 
$15.95. Both books are available from 
local Ohio Scientific dealers. Similar 
books for the remaining Ohio Scientific 
systems are being prepared. 

Circle 535 on inquiry card. 



Software for the TRS-80 

Software Innovations Co, 320 
Melbourne Rd, Great Neck NY 11021, 
has a catalog of their software for the 
TRS-80. The free catalog includes games 
and other programs for the 16 K Model 
II or 32 K floppy-disk system. 

Circle 536 on inquiry card. 



Programming the Z8000 




Programming the Z8000, by Richard 
Mateosian, has been released by Sybex, 
2344 Sixth St, Berkeley CA 94710. This 
book presents a detailed description of 
the Z8000 and is valuable to those in- 
terested in learning machine-language 
programming. The book covers in- 
put/output (I/O) techniques, peripheral 
components, utility programming ex- 
amples, addressing modes, hardware 
organization, and a complete instruction 
set. Information on the engineering and 
applications of the Z8000 and instruc- 
tions on writing programs are included. 
The price is $15.95. 

Circle 537 on inquiry card. 



Computer and Data 
Processing Books 

The Wiley Professional Books-By-Mail 
Division of John Wiley and Sons Inc, 
Somerset NJ 08873, has published a 
catalog of books dealing with computers 
and data processing. Some of the titles 
are Computer Networks and Their Pro- 
tocols, Writing Interactive Compilers 
and Interpreters, On the Design of 
Stable Systems, and An Introduction to 
General Systems Thinking. For a copy 
of the catalog and more information, 
contact the company. 

Circle 538 on inquiry card. 



How To Start Your Own 
Systems House 

How To Start Your Own Systems 
House is a guide that covers most 
aspects of starting and operating a 
small-business computer company. 
Market selection and evaluation, in- 
dustry application opportunities, equip- 
ment selection, evaluation of vendors, 
becoming a dealer and distributor, 
building a sales force, effective adver- 
tising, shows, product pricing, and 
equipment service are some of the sub- 
jects discussed. The book contains 
samples of contracts, proposals, 
agreements, advertising letters, and a 
complete business plan. The book is 
priced at $36 and is available from Essex 
Publishing, 285 Bloomfield Ave, 
Caldwell NJ 07006. 

Circle 539 on inquiry card. 



TRS-80 Interfacing 




TRS-80 Interfacing, by Dr Jonathan 
Titus, explains a number of interfacing 
techniques that can be used with the 
TRS-80 Breadboard, a product that 
allows custom interfacing of peripherals 
to the TRS-80 computer. Schematic 
diagrams, software listings, and eighteen 
experiments are included. The book will 
enable users to acquire the tools needed 
to design interfaces and to write the 
necessary software for the TRS-80. The 
book is priced at $8.95, plus $1 shipping 
and handling. For further information, 
contact Group Technology Ltd, POB 87, 
Check VA 24072. 

Circle 540 on inquiry card. 



246 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



What's New? 



MISCELLANEOUS 



Addressable PET Printer 
Adapter 

The ADA 1400 adapter drives a 
printer with an RS-232 interface from 
the PET IEEE-488 bus. The ADA 1400 is 
addressable, works with the Com- 
modore disk, and prints uppercase and 
lowercase American Standard Code for 
Information Interchange (ASCII) 
characters. The PET IEEE type port is 
provided for daisy-chaining other 
devices. A cassette tape is included with 
programs for plot routines, data format- 
ting and screen dumps. The ADA 1400 
sells for $179 and includes a PET IEEE 
cable, RS-232 cable, power supply, case, 
instructions, and software. Contact Con- 
necticut microCOMPUTER Inc, 150 
Pocono Rd, Brookfield CT 06804. 

Circle 541 on inquiry card. 



General Ledger System for 
TRS-80 Model II 

This general ledger system features 
unlimited inherent files, a year-to-year 
comparison on the income statement 
and the balance sheet, account transac- 
tion summary reports for up to a year, 
and automatic posting of retained earn- 
ings to user-defined accounts. The Cash 
Journal provides a cumulative listing of 
cash receipts and disbursements that 
result in permanent deposit records and 
cash register listings. Reports consist of 
trial balance, income statement, balance 
sheet, and special accounts report. 
Percentages to sales and prior year 
variances are also available. The price 
for the program is $249.95 and the 
package is available from Taranto and 
Associates, POB 6073, San Rafael CA 
94903. Circle 542 on inquiry card. 



Tiny Switcher 

This 12.7 mm cube (0.5 inch) is an 
extremely small switching-mode power 
supply and the smallest of the jiS family 
of switchers. The /tS-A can operate from 
line voltages of 90 to 255 VAC at 47 
thru 440 Hz, and it has 2500 V isolation 
from input to output. The AC input is 
transient-protected and DC voltages are 
protected from 1.5 to 15 VDC. Applica- 
tions include powering low-power 
systems ranging from digital panel 
meters to smoke alarms, as well as 
charging nicad batteries. For more infor- 
mation, contact Microsource Corp, 7330 
Rogers Ave, Chicago IL 60626. The 
original equipment manufacturers price 
is listed at $8.89 with a minimum fac- 
tory order of $25 or cash /check with the 
order. 

Circle 543 on inquiry card. 



What Is It? 

This unique item 
promises to be fun 
for the entire family. 
Designed for anyone 
between the ages of 
eight and eight and 
one-half, the unit 
comes replete with 
pieces of metal, wire, 
and a box for batteries. This specimen features a burned-out motor and two defunct 
batteries. Be the first to guess it — you win it. Send entries to Contest Editor, BYTE 
Publications, 70 Main St, Peterborough NH 03458. 




Intel Develops the 8086-2 and the 2732A EPROM 

Intel Corp, 3065 Bowers Ave, Santa Clara CA 95051, has announced the develop- 
ment of the 8086-2 microprocessor for the MCS-86 family of system components. The 
8086-2 is a 16-bit, 8 MHz microprocessor that utilizes HMOS II technology. The 
2732A 32 K bit erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM) is a fourth- 
generation design based on HMOS-E technology. It operates at maximum access times 
down to 200 nanoseconds. Because of the speed of the 2732A, wait-states for program 
store memory references are not necessary using the 8086-2. Bipolar bus support, 
large-scale integration peripherals, and dynamic and static memory devices usable 
with the standard 5 MHz 8086 can also be used with the 8 MHz version. Additionally, 

the 8089 input/output processor can be 
used in 8086-2 systems, acting as a co- 
processor in the system, executing in- 
put/output programs concurrently with 
the 8086 execution of the main program. 
The 8086-2 is currently priced at $200 in 
quantities of 100 and the 2732A EPROM 
is currently priced at $570. 

Circle 545 on inquiry card. 




^8 



Fdn « 



U-M 






Memory and 
Input/Output Board 

R 2 I/0 is an S-100 bus input/output 
(I/O) board with three serial I/O ports, 
one parallel I/O port, four status ports, 
2 K bytes of read-only memory (ROM), 
and 2 K bytes of programmable 
memory. The board can be used as an 
interfacing device and as a computer 
control from a terminal keyboard with a 



■! ,«*:U.M t Ws<*~ ^ 



ROM monitor containing executive com- 
mands and I/O routines. Data rates are 
selectable in the range of 75 to 9600 bits 
per second and the voltage levels of the 
serial I/O ports are RS-232 compatible. 
The price for the board is $295. For in- 
formation contact Electronic Control 
Technology, 763 Ramsey Ave, Hillside 
NJ 07205. 

Circle 546 on inquiry card. 



April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 247 



What's New? 



MISCELLANEOUS 




User-Programmable 
Integrated Circuit 
Controller for Stepper 
Motors 




The CY500 Stored Program Stepper 
Motor Controller is a user-program- 
mable NMOS device executing 22 
separate function-oriented commands. 
When the CY500 is in the ASCII mode 
of operation, the instructions form a 
function-oriented language. In this 
mode, parameters are entered as ASCII 
decimal numbers. The CY500 can ex- 
ecute commands at once in the com- 
mand mode, or store a sequence of com- 
mands and then run them as a program. 
This feature allows program looping 
using DO-WHILE instructions and pro- 
gram waits using WAIT-UNTIL instruc- 
tions. Other instructions control single- 
or multi-step mode operation, full- or 
half -step operation, and more. Each step 
can be triggered separately, and control 
of direction, starting, and stopping may 
be done either via external hardware or 
via software control. Control of step 
rates up to 3500 steps per second is 
possible. Asynchronous communication 
with the CY500 may be achieved in 
serial or parallel fashion. The device 
uses a single + 5 V power supply, and is 
priced at $95. For more information, 
contact Cybernetic Micro Systems, 
445-203 S San Antonio Rd, Los Altos 
CA 94022. Circle 530 on inquiry card. 



Disk-Drive Controller for 
the S-100 Bus 

Cameo Data Systems Inc, 1626 
Clementine St, Anaheim CA 92802, is 
shipping their DC-500S Cartridge Disk- 
Drive Controller for S-100 bus 
microcomputers. The controller will 
operate up to four 10 or 20 megabyte 
drives and is capable of full direct 
memory access (DMA). It can be used 
with the CDC Hawk and Ampex drives. 
Price of the controller alone is $1550, in- 
cluding cables and a CP/M-compatible 
software driver. Diagnostic software is 
also available. Circle 531 on inquiry card. 



Bell-Compatible, Low- 
Speed Modems Feature 
Integral DAA 

Prentice Corporation is offering a 
family of modems that allow transmis- 
sion of 300 bits per second (bps) asyn- 
chronous data over the dial-up switched 
telephone network without an external 
data-access arrangement (DAA). The 
family consists of the P103J 
Originate/Auto Answer, P113C 
Originate, and P113D Auto Answer 
modems. The modems have a standard 
RS-232C digital interface and a line 
interface defined by FCC Part 68. The 
modems provide half- or full-duplex 
transmission and reception of serial 
binary asynchronous data over two- 
wire, dial-up telephone facilities. An in- 
tegral DAA allows connection of the 
modems to the telephone network by 
means of a modular jack. They also 
feature indicators that monitor up to 
nine conditions and parameters. The 
P103J is priced at $470; the P113C is 
priced at $385, and the P113D at $395. 
For information contact Prentice Corp, 
795 San Antonio Rd, Palo Alto 
CA 94303. 

Circle 532 on inquiry card. 




Protection from Power 
Surges 

This power-surge-control device pro- 
tects small computers as well as com- 
munications, medical and other elec- 
tronic equipment from destructive 
voltage transients. The Surge Sentry 120 
plugs into standard 120 VAC wall 
outlets to provide protection from tran- 
sients. In operation, the SS-120 detects 
and quickly shunts short duration 



voltage surges. The device has a 
response time of less than 1 ns and a 
power dissipation capacity of 600,000 
watts. A light-emitting diode lets the 
user know that the device is functioning 
properly. The unit is parallel with the - 
power line so the SS-120 will not inter- 
rupt equipment operation if it malfunc- 
tions. The suggested price is $89.50 and 
it is available from R&K Enterprises, 643 
S 6th St, San Jose CA 95112. 
Circle 533 on inquiry card. 



248 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Whate New? 



SOFTWARE 




Saiut 6 

ecc:6e~84 

alt=383.5 



per= 92.1 inc : 51.6 

\at~7.2 lng=75.9 

t ine = 275 : 03-80 : 08 <return>_ 



Satellite Tracking Software 

Sat Trak International produces 
satellite tracking software for beginners, 
professionals, or schools. The programs 
allow amateur radio operators to make 
azimuth, elevation, and range calcula- 
tions for a one-week period in just a few 
minutes. Astronomers can compute the 
right ascension and declination of a syn- 
chronous satellite and quickly acquire it 
by telescope. All that is required for in- 
put are orbital parameters for each 



satellite, which are available from 
NASA at no cost. 

FORTRAN and BASIC listing versions 
are $35. The full package on 5-inch 
disks for the TRS-80 and Apple II is 
$48.50. The cassette version costs 
$29.95. Contact Sat Trak International, 
c/o Computerland of Colorado Springs, 
4543 Templeton Gap Rd, Colorado 
Springs CO 80909. 

Circle 517 on inquiry card. 



Inventory Control System 
for the TRS-80 

INV-V is an inventory-control system 
for 32 K byte TRS-80 disk systems. It in- 
cludes an order report which gives the 
inventory items at or below the safety 
levels along with associated order infor- 
mation, such as the order quantity, the 
vendor code, and the total amount in 
dollars. The system also indicates 
priority to order. The performance 
report measures the efficiency of the in- 
ventory system and the associated costs. 



Other reports include a data base lister 
and an end-of-year processor. A report 
writer allows users to specify unlimited 
report formats on line without any pro- 
gramming. Other features include form 
input, live keyboard, audit log, 
automatic page numbering, and 
simulated form feed. The package is 
priced at $99, including a program disk, 
a data disk, and a manual. For informa- 
tion, contact Micro Architect, 96 
Dothan St, Arlington MA 02174. 

Circle 518 on inquiry card. 



Depreciation System for 
Small Businesses 

The Depreciation System is a package 
of BASIC programs written for the 
North Star disk system that provide 
depreciation preparation aids for ac- 
counting services. The system allows 
users to create files of assets of past and 
future depreciation amounts. Standard 
methods of straight line, declining 
balance and sum of year-digits, and 
nonstandard depreciation methods can 
be used with the system. Some of the 
programs included are MDBLD, used to 



establish client files; MDADD, used to 
create new asset records; MDUPDT, 
used to modify existing asset records; 
MDDMP, for producing formatted 
listing of asset files; and MDSTAT, 
which is used to produce yearly sum- 
maries of depreciation. An average of 
1300 assets can be stored on a double- 
density floppy disk. 

The system is available from Business 
Computer Systems, 900 Roanoke Dr, 
Springfield IL 62702, for $100. The price 
includes a manual and program 
documentation. 

Circle 519 on inquiry card. 



Machine Language Utility 
Pac 

The Machine Language Utility Pac is 
designed for the PET microcomputer. 
The package includes an extended 
monitor, a disassembler, hexadecimal-to- 
decimal conversion, screen dump onto a 
printer, a machine-code relocate, and a 
tape relocate, all written in machine 
code. Two extra programs, Renumber 
and Merge, are used with BASIC pro- 
grams. 

The package comes with a combina- 
tion of a BASIC and a machine code 
program designed to relocate the utility 
pac to any amount of memory. It is 
priced at $29.95 from P S Software 
House, POB 966, Mishawaka IN 46544. 
Circle 520 on inquiry card. 



PSYCH-UP for SwTPC 
6800 Systems 

PSYCH-UP is a program that permits 
Flex 9.0 software to be run on SwTPC 
6800 systems that have been upgraded 
with a Percom adapter module and 
PSYMON monitor for 6809 operation. 
PSYCH-UP resolves all Flex incom- 
patibilities without hardware modifica- 
tions. The software modification is ac- 
complished using a two-drive SwTPC 
MF-68 floppy-disk system. Unmodified 
versions of both Flex 2.0 and Flex 9.0 
are required. These are available from 
Technical Systems Consultants Com- 
pany (TSC) or a TSC dealer. The pro- 
gram comes on a SVi-inch floppy disk 
with instructions for $29.95. Contact 
Percom Data Co, 211 N Kirby, Garland 
TX 75042. Circle 521 on inquiry card. 




Circle 172 on inquiry card. 



April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 249 



Whafs New? 



SOFTWARE 



Verify Saved Programs on 
Apple Tape Systems 

The Applesoft Tape Verifier will pro- 
vide either an Apple II or an Apple II 
Plus computer with the ability to verify 
programs saved to cassette. The pro- 
gram remains resident in the computer 
as long as power is applied and the com- 
puter is in the Applesoft mode. The pro- 
gram costs $20 and is supplied on an 
Apple-compatible cassette. Contact Soft- 
sell Associates, 2022 79th St, Brooklyn 
NY 11214. 

Circle 522 on inquiry card. 


Backgammon 1.0 for 
North Star BASIC 3.6 

GIGA, POB 1881, Chicago IL 60690, 
has released a Backgammon 1.0 for 
North Star users on disk for $15 or in a 
listing for $10. A player can compete 
against the computer at two levels, or 
against another player, or allow the 
computer to play itself. Output fits 
within a scrolling, 16 by 64 character 


display with the board represented at 
the left and playing information at the 
right. Features include legal move 
evaluation, end game scoring and 
optional display of computer move 
evaluations. Various playing options 
may be changed during play. Computer 
or player can double or generate dice 
rolls. Board positions can be saved or 
created for replay. 

Circle 525 on inquiry card. 


Advanced Statistical 
Analysis for the TRS-80 

Radio Shack has available a series of 
programs designed for the analysis of 
data in business, education, medicine, 
government administration and other 
fields. Advanced Statistical Analysis 
may be used with Level II BASIC or 
Disk BASIC on a 16 K TRS-80. The 
system consists of a manual and 13 pro- 
grams on cassette. Some of the pro- 
grams supplied with the system are Tape 
Data Files, Disk Data Files, Random 
Sample, Descriptive Statistics, 
Histogram, Frequency Distribution, and 
Analysis of Variance. The package is 
sold at Radio Shack Computer Centers 
and other Radio Shack stores and 
dealers for $39.95. For more informa- 
tion, contact Radio Shack Computer 
Customer Services, 205 NW 7th St, 
Fort Worth TX 76106. 

Circle 526 on inquiry card. 


Data Base Manager for the 
TRS-80 


Machine Language Sorts 
for the TRS-80 Model II 

A Generalized Subroutine Facility 
(GSF) is available for the TRS-80 Model II 
computer. Machine language functions 
in BASIC through USR calls include 
multi-key, multivariable in-memory 
sort; multi-key character string in- 
memory sort; USR peek and poke 
capability, both byte and word, fetch 
argument; compress and uncompress 
data; move blocks of data; and propa- 
gate across arrays. The system can sort 
1000 elements in six seconds and can 
carry up to fifteen arrays together with 
multiple mixed ascending and descend- 
ing keys. Sorts on multiple columns in 
character string sort mode can be done. 
The GSF is available from Racet com- 
putes, 702 Palmdale, Orange CA 92665, 
for $50 on a disk-operating system flop- 
py disk. 

Circle 523 on inquiry card. 


The Data Manager accepts up to ten 
user-defined fields with up to 40 
characters per field and a total of 255 
characters per record. The program uses 
up to four disk drives on line, 
for as many as 320 K bytes of 
storage. Data Manager enables 
the user to create up to five "key" sort 
files for quick access of data. A utility 
program is provided to calculate the 
number of records possible. The pro- 
gram also supports the uppercase and 
lowercase modification, and printouts 
can be programmed to most formats and 
sent to line or serial printers. 
Background printing is provided for 
Centronics printers. The Data Base 
Manager is available from The Bottom 
Shelf Inc, POB 49104, Atlanta GA 
30359. It is priced at $49.50. 

Circle 527 on inquiry card. 


Software Package for Routines available include text with p ro- 
ll t n i_l grammable font, rotating in 90-degree 
Pascal Programmable fncrements; windowing and clipping; 


Screen Editor for SS-50 
Bus 

Alford and Associates has developed a 
screen editing system, the SCREDITOR, 
for operation with Smoke Signal Broad- 
casting disk-operating system version 
5.1X. The SCREDITOR provides four- 
teen edit commands and, in the screen 
editing mode, twenty-two screen 
operators are included. Dual-mode 
operation is provided, allowing the 
editing of source- and text-typed material 
whose lines must be exactly defined. The 
SCREDITOR operates with 16 by 64 or 
24 by 80 character memory-mapped 
displays for the SS-50 bus. A manual is 
provided that explains how to modify 
the package. Keyboard definition, 
system input and output, and other 
aspects are user-alterable to meet special 
requirements. The system is priced at 
$99.95 and is available from Alford and 
Associates, POB 6743, Richmond 
VA 23230. 

Circle 524 on inquiry card. 


Graphics Computer scaling and translation; viewport 
^v«fpm capability,* filled polygons in solid col- 
* ors, programmable patterns, five stan- 
Ramtek Corp, 2211 Lawson Ln, Santa dard marker symbols, with others pro- 
Clara CA 95050, has introduced a grammable by the user; arcs and circles; 
graphics software package written in and object overlay. Typical applications 
UCSD Pascal. Called GRAPHPRO, the include business charts, process control, 
package consists of a set of routines and plotting, forecasting and modeling, and 
procedures designed to facilitate pro- statistical analysis. The package is priced 
gramming on Ramtek's RM-6114 and at $1750 for a one-time license fee. 
RM-6113 graphics computer systems. Circle 528 on inquiry card. 


The Postmaster Mailing 
List System 

Lifeboat Associates, 2248 Broadway, 
New York NY 10024, is offering The 
Postmaster, a mailing-list management 
system. The Postmaster includes a batch 
entry facility and an optional reference 
field that allows users to segment the list 
by code and extract records based on 
any field. The system provides the op- 
tion on an automatic "ID" field inser- 
tion. By keying in a name, a ten- 
character record identifier will be 


entered automatically to the reference 
field. This provides a reference number 
for each mail list record. Other features 
include a program to prepare and edit 
form letters and to record-sort based on 
any specified field using the Shell- 
Metzner sorting algorithm. 

The program runs in over twenty dif- 
ferent disk formats with CBASIC on all 
8080 and Z80 computers using CP/M. 
The price of the system is $150. The 
manual alone is $15. 

Circle 529 on inquiry card. 



250 April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Now get OHIO SCIENTIFIC personal computer 
products with guaranteed, quick, mail order delivery. 



.4* 




ONLY S279 



Ohio Scientific Superboard II 

The first complete computer system on a board. Includes 
keyboard, video display and audio cassette interface. 
8K BASIC-in-ROM; 4K RAM. Requires power supply + 5V 
at 3 Amp. 

"We heartily recommend Superboard II 
for the beginner who wants to get into 
microcomputers with a minimum cost. A 
real computer with full expandability." 

POPULAR ELECTRONICS, MARCH, 1979 

"The Superboard II is an excellent choice 
for the personal computer enthusiast on i 
budget." 

BYTE, MAY, 1979 



Ohio Scientific C1P Series. 




The Challenger 1P. The best bargain in 
personal computer anywhere ! 8K BASIC-in- 
ROM. 4K RAM. Cassette based with 53-key 
keyboard. B&W video display, 30 rows x 30 
columns. Upper and lower case. S349. C1P 
with 8K RAM $399. 

Ohio Scientific C1P MF. Mini-floppy version 
of the CI P. 8K BASIC-in-ROM, 1 2K RAM. 
Fully expandable. 5995. C1 P MF with 20K 
RAM and OS-65D software $1 1 98. 



SOFTWARE 



Add Game S 6.00 
BASIC Tutor Series 

$29.00 
Function Grapher 

S 6.00 
Address Book 

S 8.00 
Programmable 
Calculator $12.00 
Savings Account 

S 6.00 
Baseball I S 6.00 
Battleship $ 6.00 
Bowling $ 6.00 

Destroyer $ 6.00 
Space War 8 6.00 
Star Trek S 6.00 
Tiger Tank $12.00 

Disks 

MDMS Education 
System S29.00 

MDMS Aux File 
Systems S29.00 

MDMS Checking and 
Savings Account 

S29.00 



MDMS Personal 
Calendar/ Address 
Book S29.00 

Home Control II 

S29.00 
DAC I Music 
Generation S39.00 
Baseball I & II, Golf, 
Bowling, Hockey 

839.00 
Poker, Black Jack, 
Spades, Hearts, more 

$29.00 
Tiger Tank, Space 
Attack, Etch-A- 
Sketch, more 

S29.00 
Star Wars, Zulu 9, 
High Noon, more 

S29.00 
Monster, Kite, Three 
Little Pigs, Humpty 
Dumpty and more 
(2 Disk Set) $29.00 

When ordering, specify I 
Challenger 1 P, 4P 
or 8P 



Many, many more software systems are 
available to you. See our catalog for 
complete listings. 



Accessories 

AC-3P 12" B/W monitor, TV 

AC-15P 12" Color monitor 

AC-16P 2-8 Axis Joysticks with 

cable 

AC-11P Answer/Originate 300 

baud modem with cable 

AC-17P Home Security Starter 

Set. 1 fire detector, 2 window 

alarms, 1 door unit. 

AC-18P 8Vs" aluminized paper 

printer Upper/tower case. 

AC-9TP Centronics 799 1 1 0cps 

tractor feed, business printer with 

interface 

AC-12P AC-Remote starter set. 

Console. 2 lamp modules, 2 

appliance modules, OS 65D home 

control operating system 

Disk Drives 

CD 3P Single 5" mini floppy 

CD 2P Dual 8" Disk with interface 

and 0S-65D DOS 

Power Supplies 

PS 1. 5-volt @ 3 amps regulated. 

For use with Superboard II 

Boards (Assembled and tested) 
CM 9P. 24K Static. 
610. 8K Static. Expandable to 
24K and dual mini-floppy controller. 
CA-14A. Votrax® voice 
synthesizer. 

CA-15 Universal Telephone Inter- 
face, rotary or touch tone 
CA-15V UTI with Votrax® 
CM -6 48 K Dynamic memory 
board. 

4KP. 4K static RAM kit 
CA12. 96 line parallel I/O 
Books: 

How to Program Microcomputers, 
By William Barden 
Basic and Personal Computer 
By Dwyer & Critchf ield 
Howard Sams C1 P Service Manual 
Howard Sams C4P Service Manual 



Freight Policies 

All orders of $1 00 or more are shipped 
freight prepaid. Orders of less than 331 00 
please add $4.00 to cover shipping costs. 
Ohio Residents add 5.5% Sales Tax. 

Guaranteed Shipment Cleveland 

Consumer Computers & Components 
guarantees shipment of computer systems 
within 48 hours upon receipt of your order. 
Our failure to ship within 48 hours 
entitles you to S35 of software, FREE. 



Ohio Scientific C4P Series. 




The Challenger 4P. A 4-slot computer with 
one open slot. Highly sophisticated 16 color 
video display. 32 rows x 64 columns, upper 
and lower case. BK BASIC-in-ROM 8K RAM. 
200-2OKHz programmable tone generator. 
AC remote interface. Expandable to 32K 
RAM and two mini-floppy drives. S698. 

The Challenger 4P MF. Mini Roppy version 
of the 4P. Two to three times faster than 
competitors. More I/O built-in than any other 
in its class. 24K RAM. Real time clock. 
Modem interface. Printer interface. 
Foreground/ Background operation and much, 
much more. $1695. 



Ohio Scientific 8P Series. 




Challenger 8P. Ohio Scientific's mainframe- 
class. Personal computer. 8 slots with 6 
open. Cassette based with 8K BASIC-in- 
ROM. 8K static RAM, expandable to 32K 
RAM, and dual 8-inch floppy disk drive. $895. 

Challenger BP DF. A top of the line personal 
and small business computer. 32K RAM, 
expandable to 48K. Features dual 8" floppy 
disk drives. Audio output 200 20KHz. DAC 
for voice generation. Keypad interfaces. 
Joystick f2] interfaces. AC Remote. Real 
Time Clock. Printer & Modem interfaces. 
And more. 82597. 



To Order: 

Or to get our free catalog 

CALL 1-800-321-5805 TOLL FREE. 

Charge your order to your 
VISA or MASTER CHARGE ACCOUNT 
Ohio Residents Call: (21 6] 464-8047. 
Or write, including your check or money 
order, to the address listed below. 

Hours: 

Call Monday thru Friday 
8:00 AM to 5:00 PM EST. 



I CLEVELAND CONSUMER 
|| COMPUTERS & COMPONENTS 

P.O. Box 46627 
Cleveland, Ohio 44146 



TO ORDER: CALL 

1-800-321-5805 

TOLL FREE 



Circle 199 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 251 



oe^* 







EPROM ERASER 

Compact, durable EPROM Erasing 
Lamp with quality UV source. Fea- 
tures a special safety lock to pre- 
vent accidental exposure. Erases up 
to 4 devices (2708, 2716, 2732, 
1702 A, 5203Q, 5204Q, etc.) simul- 
taneously within 20 minutes. Con- 
ductive foam lines maintains ex- 
posure distance of one inch. 
7% x 2% x 2. 
UV-4/20 $68.95 



MICROPROCESSORS 

Z80A $ 13.95 

6502 11.95 

8035 19.95 

8080A 7.95 

TMS 9900 29.95 



8080 SUPPORT 


PROMS 


8212 




$ 2.50 


1702 $ 4.95 


8214 




4.50 


2708 7.95 


8216 




2.50 


2716 — 5- Volt 21.95 


8224 




3.25 


2758 27.95 


8228 




5.95 




8238 




6.25 




8243 




7.95 


DYNAMIC RAMS 


8251 




6.95 


4116-250ns 8 for $59.95 


8253 




19.50 


2104/4096 3.95 


8255 




5.95 


4027-4-250ns 3.95 


8257 




17.95 


STATIC RAMS 




USRT 




21L02(450) $ 1.25 


S2350 




$ 7.95 


21L02(250) 1.50 
2114L(450) 4.99 




UARTS 




2114L(300) 5.20 


TR 1602 B 


$ 3.95 


4044/5257 (450) 7.50 


TR 1863 




5.95 


4044/5257 (300) 9.25 


DISC CONTROLLER 


CRYSTALS 


1771 




$ 26.95 


4 MHZ $ 3.95 


1791 




37.95 


14.318 MHZ 3.95 



DIP SWITCHES 

3Pos. $1.00 6 Pos. $1.10 
4Pos. 1.00 7 Pos. 1.15 
5 Pos. 1.00 8 Pos. 1.20 

ZIP DIP II SOCKETS 

16 Pin $ 5.50 

24 Pin 7.50 

40 Pin 10.25 

MOTHER BOARDS 

6 Slot Bare Board $22.45 
6 Slot Kit 47.45 

12 Slot Bare Board 37.45 
12 Slot Kit 87.45 

18 Slot Bare Board 57.45 
18 Slot Kit 127.45 



RS 232 - CONNECTORS 

DB25P-Male Plug $2.95 
DB25S- 

Female Socket 3.60 
DB25C- Cover 1.50 



100% 90 DAY MONEY BACK GUARANTEE ON ALL ITEMS SOLD 
SEND $2.00 for 1980 CATALOG 



gjrt* TERMS OF SALE: Cash, checks, money orders. VISA. Master Charge. Minimum order S10.00 Texas residents add 5% sales tax. Minimum shipping and 



ot 



*&- 



^^5*1'** handling charge S2.50. COD orders add $1.15 COD fee. U.S. funds only. D&B rated firms call for open account. Universities and computer clubs call for 

t^ -1 ^ . i discounts. 

0^ 



C0 



DAL-COMP M/O DIV. 2560 ELECTRONIC LANE, SUITE 108, DALLAS, TEX. 75220 • (214) 350-6895 



Circle 200 on inquiry card. 




f^HJPTO 

W YOUR OWN TRS-80 SYSTEM AT TREMENDOUS SAVINGS 

Visit our new Store at 20th & Walnut, Phila., PA 

$3626.00 




Level II— 4k 
Level II— 16k 
Expansion Interface 

Mini Disk Drivt 
Centronics 779 Printer 
Centronics 101 Printer 
Anadex DP -8000 Pnnter 
Memory KiM16K)fhee instali 
Verbatim Diskettes ea 
3 

10 
C-10 Cassettes 5 

25 
Paper (9V Z x 11 fanlold. 
3500 sheets) 



$619.00 
$849.00 
$299.00 
$ 49500 
$1599 00 
$1595 00 
$1295 00 

ATION $ 149.00 

$ 5 95 

$ 17 89 

$ 59 00 

$ 4 95 

$ 24 75 



$575.70 
$789.60 
$278.00 

$ 385 00 
$1175.00 
$1400 00 
$ 995 00 
$ 9800 
495 
12 00 
37 00 
450 
18 75 



$ 3500 $ 29.95 



NOW OPEN 

VR DATA'S Computer 
Repair Center 



TRS— 80 MODEL II 

• 64 K RAM 

• v 2 MEG DISK 
VR Data's 1st Drhra 

ADDITIONAL DISK DRIVE (1ST) 
ADDITIONAL DISK DRIVE (2ND + 3RD) 

BUSINESS SOFTWARE 

Model II 

Payroll $199.00 

General LEDGER 
(inc. AP, AR, etc.) 
DATA BASE 
MANAGEMENT 

SYSTEM $249,00 

Documentation only (each Package) $5.00 

GENERAL SOFTWARE 



$199.00 



$899.00 

$1069 50 
$ 558.00 

Model I 

$99.00 
$149.00 



$149.00 



NEW DOS+ 



Electric Pencil 



35 tk. 

$99.00 

Tape 

$99.00 

Upper/Lower Case Conversion 

Tape $19.95 Disk $24.95 
Diagnostics Tape/Disk $34.55 
Household Inventory 
Loan Amortization Schedule 



40 tk. 

$110.00 

Disk 

$150.00 



Disk $19.95 
$19.95 



APRIL SPECIAL 



3d Until 4/30/80 



Centronics 730 
Centronics 737 



$695.00 
$950.00 



NEW SOFTWARE 

TPM- Model l& II 

CPM Compatible 

Z80 Operating System 

10 Meg Removable Disk for 

Mod II 

Send for free cataloq 



There ire new developments every day- 
write or call for the latest information. 



777 Henttenon Boulevard N-6 
Fokroft Industrial Park 
Fokroft PA 19032 
(215) 4615300 



I 



TOLL FREE 

1(800) 345-8102 Orders only! 



FOREIGN and DOMESTIC DISTRIBUTORSHIPS AVAILABLE 



MTiiiTiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiH 



252 BYTE April 1980 



Circle 201 on inquiry card. 




/MICRO 

BUSINESS WORLD 




Immediate response to your orders (verbal or written). Phone (213) 371-1660 




CromemCO System Three FEATURES 

• Z-80A Micro Processor • 64K RAM 

• Dual 8" Double Sided Disk Drive easily expan- 
dable to 4 Drives • RS232 and Printer Interface. 

CALL FOR OUR PRICE 

Cramemco System Two FEATURES . .. . 

• Z-80A Micro Processor • 64K RAM 

• Wangco Drives • RS232 and Printer Interface. 

CALL FOR OUR PRICE 



•sanyo g» MONITOR 

A Superb ^^'"Jj^ 

Black and 

White TV 

Monitor 

that can 

be used 

with most 

Computers 

OUR 
PRICE $185 




Apple II 
personal 
computer. 

We have a 
complete stock 
of different 
Software for 
the Apple II 

All Apple and Apple related products... 
20-25% OFF list price 




Texas Instruments TI"99/4 Hume Computer 

The TI-99/4 gives you an unmatched combination of 
features, including: • Powerful TI-BASIC- built-in 13-digit, 
floating point BASIC. ■ Up to 72K total memory capacity 
— 16K RAM (Random Access Memory), 26K ROM (Read 
Only Memory) , plus up to 30K ROM in Tl's Solid State 
Command Modules. * 13" color monitor included 
• Revolutionary Solid State Speech ,M 
Synthesizer (optional) Our Price $999 



ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS: 

Smart Video Terminal 






440 
Impact Printer 

TheRaperTiger 

This low-cost printer has 
the capability of printers 
twice it's price. Ideal for use 
with small computers 

w/graphics OUR PRICE $1050. > 



Z-89 Computer System: 

includes: Z19 Display, a built in 
5'/ 4 " Floppy Disk, 2 serial ports, 
and 16K of memory. 2295.00 
48K Memory version 2595,00 

Z-19 has a Z80 Microprocessor, 
Numeric Keypad and 8 function 
key $895.00 



DYSAN DISKETTES the Cadillac of the 

FLOPPY DISKS AT LOW LOW PRICES 

8" (Box Of 10)3740/1 sgl side/sgl density $4.00 ea. 

5" (BOX Of 5) 3740/1D sgl side/dbl density $6.50 ea. 

104/1 Soft sector or 107/1 10 Sectors 
or105/1 16 Sectors $4.00 ea. 

For each 2 boxes of 8" or 4 boxes of 5", you get one 
Kplastic storage case — but hurry supply is limited. ., 




ATARI 800 Compufer System 
Packed with: Computer Console, Basic 
Language Card, Education System 
Master Cartridge, Cassette Recorder, TV 
Modulator, 8K Memory (expandable to 
48K), Power Supply & all Books and 
Manuals $849.99 

ATARI ItoSffilBE* 

Packed with; Computer Console, Basic 
Language Cartridge, Power Supply, TV 
Modulator, and all Books and 
Manuals $524.99 

ATARI Program Recorder 69.99 

ATARI Software, Rome, Cassettes 25% off list price 

ATARI Expansion Memory 8K Module 99.99 

16K Module 169.99 




System B is a Z-80 based microcom- 
puter with over 630,000 characters of on- 
line storage and is capable of handling 
standard accounting or special com- 
putations of any small business or large 
company department — even scientific 
calculations in a technical environment. 
Call for Our Price 



Plastic Floppy Disk Holder 
Plastic Floppy Disk Holder 



(uptoio)8" $3.95 
(up to 10)5" $3.25 



1 6K RAM set of 8 41 16's 250 ns or better $65.00 



) 



Prices subject to change without notice. 

VISA and MASTER CHARGE WELCOME. Allow 2 weeks tor cashiers 
check to clear, 4 weeks for personal checks. Add 2% for shipping and 
handling. Calif, residents add 6% sales tax. (Sorry, no C.O.D.) 

U.S. and International dealer inquiries invited. 

Copyright 1980 • MICRO Business WORLD Circle 202 on inquiry card. 




MICRO 

BUSINESS WORLD 

15818 Hawthorne Boulevard 

Lawndate, California 90260(213) 371 -1660, 



Circle 203 on inquiry card. 



■i 



CALIFORNIA COMPUTER SYSTEMS 

16K RAM BOARD. Fully buffered addressable in 4K 
blocks. IEEE standard for bank addressing 2114's. 

PCBD $ 26.95 Kit 450 NSEC .. .$249.95 

PT-1 PROTO BOARD. Over 2,600 holes 4" regula- 
tors. All S-100 buss functions labeled, gold fingers. 

PCBD .$25.95 

PT-2 PROTO BOARD. Simitar to PT-1 except set- 
up to handle solder tail sockets. PCBD .. .$25.95 

CCS MAIN FRAME. Kit (S-100) $349.95 

APPLE EXTENDER. Kit $22.95 

APPLE IEEE INSTRUMENTATION INTERFACE 
KIT 7490. Kit $275.00 

ARITHMETIC PROCESSOR FOR APPLE 7811 A. 
Kit $350.00 

APPLE ASYNCHRONOUS SERIAL INTERFACE 
7710A. Kit $89.95 

APPLE SYNCHRONOUS SERIAL INTERFACE 

7712A. Kit $89.95 

ALL OTHER CCS PRODUCTS AVAILABLE 



-SS37 



PB-1 2708 & 2716 Programming Board with pro- 
visions for 4K or 8K EPROM. No external supplies 
require textool sockets. Kit $129.95 

CB-1A 8080 Processor Board. 2K of PROM 256 
BYTE RAM power on/ rest Vector Jump Parallel 
port with status. Kit ..,.$129.95 PCBD ..$30.95 

VB-3 80x55 VIDEO BOARD. 

Graphic included TBD 

IO-4 Two serial I/O ports with full handshaking 
20/60 ma current loop: Two parallel I/O ports. 
Kit $130.00 PCBD $26.95 

VB-1B 64 x 16 video board, upper lower case Greek 
composite and parallel video with software, S-100. 
Kit $125.00 PCBD $26.95 

CB-2 Z80 CPU BOARD. Kit $185.95 

AIO APPLE SERIAL/PARALLEL $159.95 

ALL OTHER SSM PRODUCTS AVAILABLE 



W777C 



inc. WAMECO INC. 

FDC-1 FLOPPY CONTROLLER BOARD will drive 
shugart, pertek, remic 5" & 8" drives up to 8 drives, 
on board PROM with power boot up, will operate 

with CPM™ (not included). PCBD $42.95 

FPB-1 Front Panel. IMSAI size, hex displays. Byte, 

or instruction single step. PCBD $47.50 

MEM-1A 8Kx8 fully buffered, S-100, uses 2102 

type rams. PCBD $25.95 

QM-12 MOTHER BOARD, 13 slot, terminated, S-100 

board only $34.95 

CPU-1 8080A Processor board S-100 with 8 level 

vector interrupt. PCBD .$26.95 

RTC-1 Realtime clock board. Two independent in- 
terrupts. Software programmable. PCBD $23.95 

EPM-1 1702A 4K Eprom card. PCBD $25.95 

EPM-2 2708/2716 16K/32K EPROM CARD. 

PCBD $25.95 

QM-9 MOTHER BOARD. Short Version of QM-12. 

9 Slots. PCBD $30.95 

MEM-2 16Kx8 Fully Buffered 2114 Board 

PCBD $26.95 

PTB-1 POWER SUPPLY AND TERMINATOR BOARD 

PCBD $25.95 

IOB-1 SERIAL AND PARALLEL INTERFACE. 
2 parallel, one serial and cassette. 

PCBD $26.95 

2708 $9.49 2114 (200 NS) low pwr. 

2114 (450 NS) low pwr. 5.99 $6.99 



wsm 

^ADDRESS AND PHONE ^ ^^ 

P.O. Box 955 • El Granada, CA 94018 

Please send for IC, Xistor and Computer parts list 




APRIL SPECIAL SALE 
ON PREPAID ORDERS 

(Charge cards not included on this offer) 

IO-4 LAYOUT REJECTS. One simple change. 

PCBD $20.00 

8Kx8 RAM. Fully buffered. 450 NSEC assembled 
and tested $99.99 

MIKOS PARTS ASSORTMENT 
WITH WAMECO AND CYBERCOM PCBDS 

MEM-2 with MIKOS #7 16K ram 

with L2114 450 NSEC $249.95 

MEM-2 with MIKOS #13 16K ram 

with L2114 250 NSEC $279.95 

MEM-1 with MIKOS #1 450 NSEC 8K 

RAM $119.95 

CPU-1 with MIKOS #2 8080A CPU $ 94.95 

QM-12 with MIKOS #4 13 slot mother 

board $ 89.95 

RTC-1 with MIKOS #5 real time clock.. $ 54.95 

EMP-1 with MIKOS #10 4K 1702 less 

EPROMS $ 49.95 

EPM-2 with MIKOS # 11 16-32K EPROMS 

less EPROMS $ 59.95 

QM-9 with MIKOS # 12 9 slot mother 

board $ 79.95 

FPB-1 with MIKOS #14 all parts 

for front panel $134.95 

MIKOS PARTS ASSORTMENTS ARE ALL FACTORY MARKED 
PARTS. KITS INCLUDE ALL PARTS LISTED AS REQUIRED 
FOR THE COMPLETE KIT LESS PARTS LISTED. ALL SOCK- 
ETS INCLUDED. 



VISA or MASTERCHARGE. Send account number, interbank num- 
ber, expiration date and sign your order. Approx. postage will 
be added. Check or money order will be sent post paid in U.S. 
If you are not a regular customer, please use charge, cashier's 
check or postal money order. Otherwise there will be a two- 
week delay for checks to clear. Calif, residents add 6% tax. 
Money back 30-day guarantee. We cannot accept returned IC's 
that have been soldered to. Prices subject to change without 
notice. $10 minimum order. $1.50 service charge on orders 
less than $10.00. 




computer 
products, inc. 



11542-1 KNOTT ST. 

GARDEN GROVE, 

C A 92641 

(800)854-6411 

(714)891-2663 



CERAMIC 
CAPS 

.1 @ 12 VOLT 

10C each 
or 

100/S9.00 



MICROBYTE 
16K RAM BOARD 



•S-100 COMPATIBLE 
•4K BANK ADDRESSABLE 
•EXTENDED MEMORY 

MANAGEMENT 
•NO DMA RESTRICTIONS 
•ASSEMBLED & TESTED 
•RUNS AT 4 MHZ 

$265.00 



MICROBYTE 
32K RAM BOARD 



•S-100 COMPATIBLE 
•BANK ADDRESSABLE 
•EXTENDED MEMORY 
MANAGEMENT 
•8-BIT OUTPUT PORT 
•ASSEMBLED & TESTED 
•RUNS AT 4 MHZ 

$540.00 



LOBO 



APPLE II 

DISK DRIVE & INTERFACE 
(1) SHUGART SA400, 

WITH CABLE $395.00 

*WITH OPTIONAL 
INTERFACE CARD 

$495.00 



SA800 SISve 

INSTALLED IN DUAL 
CABINET W/PWR SUPPLY 

(1) DRIVE INSTALLED 

$ 750.00 

(2) DRIVES INSTALLED 

$1250.00 



LO-PRO SOCKETS 



14 PIN 
16 PIN 
18 PIN 
20 PIN 
24 PIN 
28 PIN 
40 PIN 



1-24 

.14 
.15 
.19 
.26 
.33 
.37 
.45 



25-99 

.13 
.14 
.17 
.24 
.31 
.35 
.42 



100-1 

.12 
.12 
.15 
.23 
.30 
.30 
.39 



(ALL SOCKETS ARE TIN) 



271 6's 

2K x 8 E-PROM 
5- VOLT ONLY 

IpOD.UU each 



IMSAI CONNECTORS 

100 PIN-SOLDERTAIL 

$2.75 each 

or 
10/$2.60. each 



411 6's 

(250NS) 

ADD-ON MEMORY 

FOR APPLE, TRS-80 

HEATH, ETC. 

8 for $70.00 

or 

16 for $130.00 



2708 's 



1Kx8 

450 NANO SEC. 

E-PROM 

$8.50 each 

or 

8/$60.00 



ORDERING INFO 



NAME, ADDRESS, PHONE 

SHIP BY: UPS OR MAIL 

SHIPPING CHRG: ADD 

$1.75 UP TO (5) LBS. 



74L $244 

OCTAL BUFFER 

$1.75 each 




320 T-5 90 

320T-12 80 

340 T-5 75 

340T-12 65 

78H05 5.00 

78L12 .30 

APPLE SOFTWARE 

BY S.T.C. 

MAILING LIST 

W/MANUAL $34.99 

MAILING LIST 

W/PH0NE OPTION . . . $40.00 

INFO-DATA BASE 

MANAGER PROG. , $100.00 

INVENTORY PROG. 

W/MANUAL $140.00 

CALL FOR MORE flFTAIl <? 



TERMS 



WE ACCEPT CASH, 

CHECK MONEY ORDERS, 

VISA & MASTER CHRG. 

(U.S. FUNDS ONLY) 

TAX: 6% CALIF. RES, 



254 BYTE April 1980 



Circle 204 on inquiry card. 



INTEGRATED CIRCUITS MICROPROCESSOR LED'S SOCKETS CAPACITORS DIODES 

CO 



CO 

$ 

HI 

Z 

CO 

EC 
O 
H 
O 
UJ 

Z 

z 
o 

o 

CO 



CO 

cc 
o 

CO 



5 

CO 



CO 

S 

UJ 
CO 

CO 

< 



CD 

< 
u 

CO 

cc 

UJ 

a. 
I 
D 

5 

CO 



CO 

O 

§ 





■m- 



electronic components 



Now . . . better than ever. Over 
320 items in stock. A more 
complete line of components 
and kits cannot be found any- 
where! Everything needed for 
the amateur electronics buff 
to the advanced engineer. 
Reliable components for repair 
or construction. A variety of 
kits designed for easy assembly, 
yet rugged enough for every- 
day applications. Stop by your 
local distributor and check out 
the J IM-PAK line today! 




one-stop component center 



POTENTIOMETERS 

CO 



< 

UJ 

I 

CO 

cc 
o 

H 

u 

UJ 

z 
z 
o 

u 

CO 

-I 

< 

CO 

> 

CC 

o 

CO 

UJ 

Z 
o 

I- 

5 

CO 



00 
UJ 



00 

< 

o 

CO 

QC 
UJ 

0. 

S 

D 

-y 
a. 

Q 

CO 



CO 

O 
O 

CD 

' CO 

Q. 






CO 

QC 
UJ 

O 

-i 

o 

X 

UJ 

8 



CO 

Z 

CO 

UJ 

X 

CO 

QC 

o 

I- 

CJ 
UJ 

z 
z 

O 

CJ 



>- 

QC 

O 



7400 
7402 
7404 
7408 
7410 
7420 
7430 
7432 
7442 
7447 



-TTL- 

7473 

7474 

7475 

7476 

7485 

7490 

7492 

7493 
74107 
74121 

TTL- 



74122 
74123 
74125 
74154 
74161 
74176 
74177 
74192 
74193 
74367 



Low Power Schottky 
74LS00 74LS85 



74LS02 
74LS04 
74LS08 
74LS10 
74LS20 
74LS30 
74LS32 
74LS42 
74LS47 
74LS73 
74LS74 
74LS75 
74LS83 

I 

CD4000 
CD4001 
CD4010 
CD4011 
CD4013 



• CMOS 



74LS86 
74LS90 
74LS109 
74LS123 
74LS136 
74LS138 
74LS151 
74LS157 
74LS175 
74LS192 
74LS193 
74LS367 
74LS368 

CD4029 
CD4044 
CD4046 
CD4049 
CD4050 



— CMOS Cont'd. — 

CD4016 CD4051 

CD4017 CD4069 

CD4020 CD4071 

CD4023 CD4081 

CD4024 CD4511 

LINEAR 

LM301V 

LM307V . . 

LM309KC . . 

LM311V 

LM320K-5. . . .(7905) 
LM320T-5 . . . .(7905) 
LM320T-12 . . .(7912) 
LM320T-15 . . .(7915) 

LM323K. 

LM324N 

LM339N 

LM340T-5 . . . .{7805) 
LM340T-12 . . .(7812) 
LM340T-15 . . .(7815) 

LM380N 

LM555V 

LM556N 

LM566CN 

LM567 

LM723N 

LM739N 

LM741V 

LM747N 

LM1458V 

LM1488N 

LM1489N 



-LINEAR Cont'd— 

LM1556V 

XR2206 

CA3080 

CA3130 

C A3 140 

LM3900N ! !(CA340lj 

76477 

MICRO 

PROCESSOR 
Z-80 2114-3 

Z80A 2101 

80S0A 2102 

8212 21L02 

8216 7489 

8224 MM 5262 

8228 1702A 

6800 82S23 

6810 2708 

6830 L8 8T97N 

AY-5-1013 

2513/2140 

UPD416 . . (MK4116) 

MM5314N 

TMS2516 . . . .(2716) 

DM8835N 

LEDS 

Display/ Discrete 
MAN 2 . . . (TIL305) 
DL704 DL747 
DL707 DL750 
XC556 R-G-Y .... 
Cliplites 



IC SOCKETS — 

8 pin LP 

14 pin LP 

16 pin LP . 

24 pin LP. 

40 pin LP 

14 pin WW 

16 pin WW ...... 

24 pin WW 

40 pin WW 

14 pin Plug 

16 pin Plug . . . . . . 

24 pin Plug ....!.. 

TO-3 

TO-5 (3 pin) 

M-530-1 

M-530-8 

— CAPACITORS — 
.... Dipped .... 

Tantalum 
. . Polyester/Mylar. . 
Miniature Aluminum 

Electrolytic Axial 
. . . Ceramic Disc . . 

DIODES 

—TRANSISTORS — 

RESISTORS 

5% — 1/4 Watt 
50 pc. Assortmts. 



P.C. 
POTENTIOMETERS 

SWITCHES 

Dip 

. . . .Toggle .... 

.... Slide 

. . Pushbutton . . . 

CRYSTALS 

—CONNECTORS — 

HEAT SINKS 

-FUSEHOLDERS— 

TEST CLIPS 

BOOKS 

KITS 

. . . .Clocks .... 
. .Thermometer . . 
. . Stopwatch . . . 
. Function Gen. . . 
. Power Supplies. . 
. 62-Key Encoded. . 

Keyboard 
. . Hexadecimal . . 
Encoder Keyboard 

— DIP JUMPERS — 
AND CABLE 
ASSEMBLIES 

MISC. 

ACCESSORIES 



CO 

CC 
UJ 

Q 

-J 
O 

X 

UJ 
CO 

D 
u. 

CO 

z 

CO 

< 

UJ 

X 

CO 

QC 

o 

O 



z 
o 

o 



CO 

> 
tc 
u 



X 

u 

1 

-J 



Ask your Distributor to stock J jm-pak today! 



L 



Call or write for distributor information: 
JIM-PAK ELECTRONICS, 1355 Shoreway Road, Belmont, CA 94002 (415) 595-5936 



Circle 205 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 255 




PRIORITY rONEJ ELECTRONICS 




CCS-MXVI M 

The true 16K Static Ram module for 
S-100 bus systems. ASSEMBLED & 
TESTED -100% BURN IN FEATURES: • 
Fully static • Uses popular 2114 static 
RAMS • + 5 volt operation only • Bank 
Select available by bank port and bank 
byte • Phantom Line capability • Ad- 
dressable in 4K blocks • 4K blocks can 
be addressed anywhere with in 64K in 4k 
increments. • Meets IEEE proposed 
S-100 signal standards • LED indicators 
for board selection and bank selection • 
FR-4 EPOXY PC boards • Solder masked 
on both sides • Silk screen of part 
number and part designator, 

OUR PRICE 
CCS-2016BA 450ns 2MHZ - 
Reg. Price $349.95 $279.95 

CCS-2016BB 300ns 4MHZ - 
Reg. Price - $389.95 $309.00 

CCS-2016BY Bare Board - only $29.95 



The VISTA V-80 
Disk Drive System 

• 23% more storage capacity than 
TRS-80 • 120 day warranty • 40 track 
patch at NO CHARGE from VISTA 

Single drive system $395.00 

Two drive system $770.00 

Four drive system $1450.00 

Two drive cable $29.95 

Four drive cable $39.95 

NEW MS-230 DUAL TRACE 
MINISCOPE 30 MHz 
™*mmr BANDWIDTH 

1 NLS MS-230 30 MHZ Scope . $598.15 

2 NLS 41-141 10 to 1 Combo Probe$54.00 
1 NLS 41-180 Deluxe Leather Case$45.00 

LIST PRICE .$697.1 5 

MS 230 COMBO PRICE $547.15 

SAVE $150.00 



^^^fcv\AUDIO RESPONSEtm 
\im DIGITAL DISPLAY 

n 1 1 kl kl C D A«Art AnHirt 



Response. ..A new dimension in 
multimeters. Rapid checking of fuses, 
capacitors, diodes, resistors, tran- 
sistors, LED's darlingtons... without look- 
ing at the meter. The <1 V and<2V ranges 



WammmfmiimKm 



sisto'rs causing a continuous tone. 
Similarly, capacitors can be charged un- 
til the tone shuts off. ..thus the approx- 
imate value of the capacitor can be 
measured. The <1 ohm,<10 ohm, 
and<100 ohm ranges are used in 
threshold testing of resistors and mak- 
ing continuity tests of PCBs, wire wrap 
and solder connections, light bulbs, and 
transformer windings. In addition, the 
Audio Response function permits the 
monitoring of incoming digital pulses. 
The ROAD RUNNER ADMM tm 
FEATURES • Six Functions • 29 Ranges 
• 0.5% Accuracy on DCV • 5 Range 
Audio Response Function • Color coded 
easy-to-read front panel and pushbut- 
tons • Full Accessory Line Expands 
Capability • 0.5" LCD Display • Rugged 
Case for "Field Use" • RFI Shielded. 

ONLY $139,00 

WESTON-6100 

Digital Multimeter (a $139.00 

WESTON-6100C Leather Case<ft $ 15.95 
WES-9740-0279627 VHF RF 



Voltage Probe 



$ 63.00 



WES-5768 AC Clamp-on Prober $ 57.75 
WES-1961 RF Voltage Probe (a $ 29.00 

WES-9395 50 KV Probe (a $ 38.75 

WES-6100AC 110V 
AC Adapter fa $ 15-00 

NEW FROM 



192 PAGES 



CALIFORNIA 

Computer Systems 
• S-100 compatible • Industrial/commer- 
cial quality construction • Flip-top cover 



uapauimj \uotj n'uuvi «-wvir.f ,.. r ~ 

105, 115, or 125 VAC • Output + J 
VDC20A, + -16 VDC 4A • Active ter- 
mination of all bus lines • Fan and cir- 
cuit breaker included • Rugged con- 
struction 
CCS-2200A Assembled & Tested 

35 lbs. . ■ $399.95 

CCS-2200AK Kit 35 lbs $349.95 

MEMORY MEMORY 

2102LIPC 

Low Power 450ns in lots of 20 $110 

2102AL-2 

Low Power 250ns in lots of 20 $1 .25 

2114-3L 

1Kx4 300ns Low Power 8/$50.00 

5257-3L 

4Kx1 300ns Low Power 8/$55.00 

2708 

8K 450ns EPROM . 8/$60.00$8.50 ea. 

2716 

16K 5 Volt only EPROM 

8/$248.00 $32.0 ea. 



RS232 and 

P Plug. Male 


"D" 


SUB-MINIATURE < 


:ONNECTORS * 

e C HnuPi Hood 


vpe 






PRK 


:e 


PART NO. 




DESCRIPTION 


1-9 


10-24 


25-99 


CND-DE9P 




9 Pin Male 


1.60 


1.40 


1.30 


CNDDE9S 




9 Pin Female 


2.25 


2.00 


1.90 


CND DE9C 




9 Pin Cover 


1.50 


1.35 


1.20 


CNDDA15P 




15 Pin Male 


2.35 


2.15 


200 


CND-DA15S 




15 Pin Female 


3.25 


3.10 


2.90 


CND-DA15C 




15 Pin Cover 


1 60 


1.45 


1.30 


CND-DB25P 




25 Pin Male 


2.80 


2.60 


2.40 


CND DB25S 




25 Pin Female 


3.60 


3.40 


3.20 


CND-DB5121 


2-1 


1 pc.Grey Hood 


1.50 


1.30 


1.10 


CND-DB110963-3 


2 pc.Grey Hood 


1.75 


1.50 


1.35 


CND-DB1226-1A 


2 pc. Black Hood 


1.90 


1.65 


1.45 



Circle 206 on inquiry card. 




JRUCKLOAD 

SALE 



S-100 BUS EDGE 
CONNECTORS 



CG 1 (MSA) Style Card Guides 5/$1.00 

Texas Instruments - 

Gold S-100 Connectors 

TIS100STG Solder Tail 5/$10.00 

TIS100WWG Wire Wrap 3/S10.00 



i EXPANDORAM 

EXPANDABLE TO 64K 
USING 4116 RAMS 
SDS-EXPANDORAM16K KIT 

List . $385.00 Sale • $215.00 

SDSEXPANDORAM32K KIT 

List - $550.00 Sale - $270.00 

SDSEXPANDORAM-48K KIT 

List - $715.00 Sale - $350.00 

SDS-EXPANDORAM-64K KIT 

List - $8 80.00 Sale $410.00 

PROM-100 

PROGRAMS 2708, 2716, 2732, 
2758, 2516 EPROMS 
SDSPROM-100 KIT 
List - $200.00 Sale - $175.95 



EXPANDOPROM 

I EXPANDABLE TO 32K 
USING 2716 EPROMS 
SDS-EXPAfMDOPROM KIT 
List - $200.00 Sale - $156.00 



te VDB-8024 

m 80 x 24 I/O MAPPED VIDEO 
kkP* BOARD SDSVDB-8024 KIT 
List - $375.00 Sale $315.00 

2M VERSAFLOPPY II 

DOUBLE DENSITY DISK CONTROLLER 
SDSVERSAFLOPPY II KIT 
List - $350.00 Sale - $299.00 

^^ MPB-100 

J Z80 CENTRAL PROCESSING 
_ D UNIT SDS MPB-100 KIT 
List ■ $250.00 Sale • $199.00 

'#11 111 EXPANDORAM II 

: } ; .Gp TOl 4 MHz RAM BOARD 

^- fel^g 5 ^ EXPANDABLE TO 256K 
SDSEXPANDORAMII - 16K KIT 

List - $470.00 Sale - $280.00 

SDS-EXPANDORAM-H ■ 32K Kit 

List 720.00 Sale ■ $360.00 

SDS-EXPANDORAM-II ■ 48K KIT 

List $970.00 Sale - $440.00 

SDS-EXPANDORAM-II - 64K KIT 

List $1220.00 Sale - $510.00 



__P SBC-1 00/200, 

1 2 OR 4 MHz SINGLE BOARD COMPUTER 
K SDS-SBC100 2MHZ KIT 

S List-$295.00 Sale-$235.00 

SDS-SBC-200 4MHZ KIT 
List-$320.00 : Sale$255.00 

PRIORITY ONE ELECTRONICS 

16723K Roscoe Blvd. Sepulveda, CA 91343 



m?,*wM_ STARTER KIT 

COMPLETE Z80 MICROCOMPUTER 
SDS-Z80 STARTER KIT 
List • $340.00 Sale ■ $239.00 

TRS-80/APPLE 

MEMORY EXPANSION KITS 
from Leading Manufacturers (16K x 1 
200/250ns) 4116's RAMS. 8 for $65.00 
Add $3.00 for programming jumpers for 
^JMfaSJfB T RS 80 Keyboard. 



mSW®\ VERSAFLOPPY 

SINGLE DENSITY DISC CONTROLLER 
SDSVERSAFLOPPY KIT 
List $250.00 ^ Sale $235.00 

#MP ROCKWELL 
^m AIM-65 

The Rockwell AIM 65 with 4K 

RCK-AIM65 4K 8 lbs $445.00 

The Rockwell AIM 65 with 1K 

RCK-AIM65 1K 8lbs . $375.00 

4K Assembled-RCK.AIM65.010 . $85.00 
8K Ba sic in ROM RCKAIM65020$100.00 

CENTRONICS 

730 • 1 Dot Matrix Printer 
List - $995.00. . . Sale - $850.00 
SAVE $150.00 

OVATION CAT 

^Wv^ ACOUSTIC COUPLER/MODEM 
LisT- $199.00 Sale $169.00 

f t m FOR MORE INFORMATION SEE 

MeMctttJl OUR 52 PAGE AD in JANUARY 



Terms: Visa, MC. BAC, Check. Money Order. U.S. Funds Only. CA residents add 6% sales tax. 
Minimum order S10.00 Prepaid U.S. orders less than S75.00 include 5% shipping and handling. 
MINIMUM $2.50. Excess refunded. Just in case ... please include your phone no. Prices subject to 
change without notice. We will do our best to maintain prices thru APRIL 1980. 
'SOCKET and CONNECTOR prices based on GOLD, not exceeding $375.00 per oz. c 

'Sale Prices are for prepaid orders only credit card orders will be charged appropriate freight 



FOR MORE INFORMATION SEE 
OUR 52 PAGE AD in JANUARY 
BYTE OR SEND $1.00 FOR 
CATALOG 

• Sale Prices are for prepaid 
orders only • Quantities are 
limited, subject to prior sale • 
CREDIT CARD ORDERS WILL BE 
CHARGED APPROPRIATE 
FREIGHT 



Circle 206 on inquiry card. 



FLOPPY SYSTEMS 




SOFT- 
WARE: 



8" Siemens FDD120-8D 

All Siemens options in- 
cluded in this drive 
may be configured hard 
or soft and single or 
double density. We find 
this to be an extremely 
reliable drive. $430.00 
Fully Shugart compatible. 
SVa" BASF Magical Miniature Mini 
drive only 2/3 the size of others 
is reliable and durable and quickly 
gaining in popularity with our 
customers. Single or dual density 
fast access times $259.00 

Tarbell... single density,, A&T, $265 
$265, kit, $179. A&T $219 w/ 
purch. of 2 drives. Tarbell double 
density, DMA, $399. Delta Double 
density, $399. Micromation double 
density w/programmable UART for 
RS-232 port $495. Sorrento Valley single density for Apple, $399. 
Cable Kits For 8" Drives with 
10' 50 cond. cable and conn 
£Vj^* ectors. Also power cable and 

connector's. Flat cable assem 
if you wish. For one drive 
27.50, two 33.95, three 38.95 
Cable Kits for 5%" Drives as above, but 34 
cond. For one drive 24.95, two 29.95. 

"Power One" Model CP206 

Power Supply adequate for 
at least two drives. 2.8A/24V 
2.5A/5V, 0.5A/-5V beautiful 
quality. $99.00 





OS- 1 (see opposite page) 
Call for up to the minute pricing 
on S-100 DMA controller, LSM 1 
controller,cabinetry, etc. 

PS: OS-1 runs on the TRS-80, and can 
transform it from a toy computer to a 
real business machine ! ! ! 



svtf 



10MBy 
DRIVE 
$3300 



S-100 

DMA 

CONTROL 



POWER 

UNIT 

$395.00 



For the first time in something like 10 years, 
a new STANDARD in removable media has 
evolved. Selected by Datapoint, and others 
who have not yet announced, this drive is 
beautifully simple and easy, if not trivial to 
maintain, 920 k By /sec. transfer rate, 3600 RPM 
39 lbs and only 125 Watts. 






CABINETS for FDD120 and 
801 R drives, or CP206 supply. 
Matte finish in mar resistant 
black epoxy paint and stack- 
ing design 29.95 



DISKETTES 

(Mrx, Verbatim, 
Georgia Magnetics) 
8" $39.95/10 
S 1 /^' $34.95/10 




Electrolabs 

POB 6721, Stanford, CA 94305 

415-321-5601 800-227-8266 

Telex: 345567 (Electroiab Pla) 
Visa MC Am. Exp. 



Daisy Wheel Printers 
QumeSppint 3\OS 

PRINTER (factory warr.) $1499.00 
POWER SUPPLY (Boschert) 349.00 
(shown mounted on rear of printer) 
COMBINATION SPECIAL $1699.00 

Cases available 200.00 

S-1 00 interface card 149.00 

DATA DISPLAY MONITORS 

Used 12" Sylvania mon- 
itors. Composite Video, 
15 MHz, 120V AC Re- 
built with NEW P39 
anti-glare tube $1 19.00 
New P4, 109.00, used 
P4 79.00. 
U-fix model, 10/S300.00 






STATIC RAM MEMORY, S-100 
32K - $549.00 16K - $349.00 

"BACK TO SCHOOL" 
KEYBOARD SPECIAL 
I 



ESAT200B - 

BI-LIIMGUAL 80x24 

COMMUNICATING 

TERMINAL 

Scrolling, full cursor, bell, 
8x8 matrix, 110- 19,200 
baud, Dual Font Appli- 
cations. Arabic & Hebrew, 
Multilingual Data Entry 
Forms Drawing, Music, & 
Switchyards. $349.00 



IMew! 




CHERRY "PRO" Keyboard $119.00 
Streamlined Custom Enclosure $34.95 

BOTH ONLY $134.95 !!!!!!!!! 



258 BYTE April 1980 





SOCKET 
SPECIAL 



'OEM STYLE" as above, 
will fit any case. (Both 
versions serviced by quali- 
fied tech). Identical to 
above but subtract $12,00 

Televideo 91 2B Televideo 920C 
($860.00) ($1020.00) 

TELEVIDEO 912B 

— Upper & lower case 

— Adjustable baud rate 
-80 x 24 

— Editing capabilities 

— Printer port 
—Second page memory & 

much much more 

TELEVIDEO 920C 

—Same features as 912B 
PLUS 

— Line & character insert/ 
delete 

—Special function keys 




"Won't Let Go" 

Low Profile 
Solder Tail 
1 CENT/ Pin !! (0.75/1 000's) 

8 14 16 18 20 22 24 28 40 



Circle 207 on inquiry card. 



CP/M* Source Code -FREE! when you purchase "OS-1" 
Electrolabs' new operating system for the Z-80 designed to have exactly 
the appearance of UNIX**, including virtual I/O, "set TTY", a tree and a 
shell, filters and pipes PLUS total compatability with CP/M software! 

^^ ^^ ^1 (Because OS-1 is truly a comprehensive 

1 I ^^ I "OS", and not merely a file handling 

I l.^a 1 ccATIIDCC "DOS", we have changed the name 

^J ^J 1 rtMIUHM from "Superdos" to "OS-1") 

VIRTUAL I/O - copy with a single command between floppy and hard 

disk, or from TTY to printer to tape to disk... etc., etc. 

No messy I/O routines to write, & no awkward transfers. 
SECURITY - 9 modes of file protection, user and login protection. 
MULTI-USER - up to 256 passwords, (non-simultaneous users) 
16MBy FILE SIZE - but no limit to no. of directories per device, thus 

allowing EASY implementation of gigantic storage devices. 
"SET TTY" - for printer or crt: tabs, page width, buffer, cursor, UC/LC, 

fonts, formfeed, arbitrary control characters etc., etc. 
"LOGIN" - automatically executes user selected programs and "set TTY". 
OCCUPIES 12KBy - only 50% larger than CP/M, but 500% more features. 
CP/M & CDOS COMPATABLE - your library is guaranteed to run! 

* (Naturally, we are not giving away the version of CP/M written by 
Digital Research, Please pardon our pun, but they might object. 
What we ARE giving you Is a greatly enhanced version of CP/M 
which resides on OS-1, and allows the user of OS-1 to run any and 
all of his programs, packages or system utilities which are already 
running on CP/M. We give you the source code at no charge so 
that you may modify any part of the CP/M to suit your own sys- 
tem requirements. At no charge, you also receive the enhancement 
allowing 4MBy files instead of 256K.) 

OS-1 (with debugger, linker and screen oriented editor $199.00 

Update service, per year 29.00 

Symbolic Debugger 1 50.00 

MAC R0- Assembler (Creates relocatable code) 1 50.00 

"C" Compiler 660.00 

FORTRAN Compiler 100.00 

BASIC Compiler (very fast) 350.00 




PAPER TIGER 

IDS MODEL 440 

— 8 Software Selectable Character 
Sizes 

— Parallel & Serial Interface 

— 98 ASCII Character set, upper 
& Lower case 

— Forms length control 

— Tractor Feed $949.00 
Graphics option with 2K CRT 

screen buffer add $199.00 



DYNAMIC DEVICES MODEM 

— Acoustically coupled modem 
assembly set 

— Asynchrous 0-300 Baud 

— Switchable originate or answer 
modes 

— Operates full or half duplex 
mode 

— 15 minute assembly $149.95 




SPRINGTIME IC SPECTACULAR 



(While Supply Lasts) 
MEMORY & EPR0M 
2114 $ 5.99 

2114-2 6.99 

pd411 Z50 

2107 2.00 



4116 (set of 8, 16K, mem- 
ory expansion for TRS-80, 
Apple, Exidy) $69.00 



2732 

8748-8 

8755-8 



2708 
2716 
2516 



8.95 
35.00 
35.00 



ELECTROLABS 
P0B 6721 Stanford, CA 94305 
415-321-5601 800-227-8266 
Telex: 345567 (Electro lab Pla) 



CPU 

6502 

Z-80 

Z-80 A 

8 080 A 

8085 

8741 

FLOPPY CONTROLLERS 

1771 $26.95 

1791 37.95 

Pd372 39.00 

MISCELLANEOUS 



95.00 
49.00 
49.00 



6.25 

9.95 

12.05 

8.99 

22.00 

79.00 



(CALL US!!) 




gg« Graphics 

■^gKw^^lB High Resolution B 480x512 
f^St^^^SmS^^ for B&W and Color Imaaina and Graohics 



for B&W and Color Imaging and Graphics 

Light pen, A-D, D-A, TV synchro (needs no time base 
correction or adjustment with anything between ran- 
dom interface & NTSC commercial standard). T.V. 
single frame grabber {"snapshot"). Up to 1 Byte of at- 
tributions per pixel. 

LS I- 1 00 &S- 100 applied to: 

Graphic Presentation — such as computer generated animation & other 
graphic displays up to 256 colors & up to 256 b&w gray scales. Image 
Analysis — using built-in FRAME GRABBER, for medical image en- 
hancement, contour analysis, & pattern recognition. Commercial TV 

Tilting & Advertising - using synchronization capability. Interactive 

graphics— using light pen accessory. 

BASIC CONFIGURATION - 

LSI-11 $1995. S-100$1265. 
For TRS-80/Exidy Add $595.00 
Includes: Data Board - 32K (480 
x 512 x 1 pixel) D-A 16 level video 
generator. Video Synchronization 
Circuitry. Address Control & Tim- 
ing Board. 

FEATURES - High speed. DMA 
or 2KBy window memory mapped interface. 
Full NTSC commercial color capability. Low 
power consumption. Excellent Software 

Options - Accessories - Software 

Options include: light pen, auxiliary outputs, 
text mode, memory and much more. Acces- 
sories include: b&w and color cameras and 
monitors. Software: "Plot" 2D or 3D, 
"Tilting", "Contour", "Image Enhance- 
ment", "Vector Curve Generation". 

Call for price and details 

*CPM and **UNlX 

trademarks of Digital Research and Western Electric respectively. 

Circle 207 on inquiry card. 



DISK 



MATCHMAKER TECHNOLOGY 

TURNKEY DISK SUBSYSTEMS 



IS 



For those who wish to avoid the 
aggravation, fussing, irritation, an 
noyance etc., of assembling your 
own subsystem, plug in and GO!! 





^SORCERER 
*> TRS-80 
DAPPLE 
fHPIB 
^PET 



APPLE 



FEATURES: 

- 2 8" Floppy DISK DRIVES (Single Sided) 

- Color Coordinated Cabinet with Power Supply 

- Expanded version of APPLE-DOS 

- Single Density Disk Controller 

- Full Cabling, Connectors + Documentation 

- Assembled and Tested 

- Plug in and GO!!! 

OPTIONS: 

- 2 8" Double Sided Drives (In place of Single Sided) 

- 16K Internal Memory Expansion Kit 69.00 



PET 



Prices and specifications same as for APPLE except 
PET Operates via PET-DOS 



TRS-80 



Prices and specifications same as for SO RCE R E R with 
following exceptions: 

— Expansion Interface necessary 

— Space for up to 48K plug-in dynamic memory on 
Controller Card 

— Software package as above 



SORCERER 

FEATURES: 

- 2 8" Single Sided Floppy Disk Drives 

- Single and/or Double Density 

- Color Coordinated Cabinet with Power Supply 

- Full RS-232 Interface 

- OS-1 Disk Operating System (Fully CP/M 

Compatible) CP/M Is a r.giit.rKl trad.m.rk of Digital ft«»«»rel 

- Full Cabling, Connectors + Documentation 

- Assembled and Tested 

- One S-100 Slot available for Memory Expansion 

- Plug In and GO!!! 



OPTIONS: 

- 2 8" Double Sided Drives (In place of Single Sided) 

- 32 K Dynamic RAM Memory Board, Assembled 
and Tested 

- 16K Dynamic RAM Internal Memory Expansion Kit 

$ 69.00 

- Deluxe Business Software package includes: 
C BASIC 

WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE 
INTERACTIVE "Big 4": 

General Ledger, Accts, Payable, Accts. Rec. 

and Payroll 

- 10 MBY Removeable Hard Disk - Call for Details 



ANOTHER Fine Product brought to you exclusively by the folks at: 



In California: 415-321-5601 
Outside Cai: 800-227-8266 



Electrolabs 



Worldwide: 

TLX: 345567 Electrolabs PLA 



POB 6721,StaTford,Ca94305 



BYTE April 1980 259 



[ ^fW 



SN74QQN 
SN7401N 
SN7402N 
SN74Q3N 
SN7404N 
SN7405N 
SN7406IM 
SN7407N 
SN7408N 
SN7409N 
SN7410N 
SN7411N 
SN7412N 
SN7413N 
SN7414N 
SN7416N 
SN7417N 
SN7420N 
SN7421N 
SN7422N 
5N7423N 
SN7425N 
SN7426N 
SN7427N 
SN7429N 
SN743QN 
SN7432N 
SN7437N 
SN7438N 
SN7439N 
SN7440N 
5N7441N 
SN7442N 
SN7443N 
SN7444N 
SN7445N 
SN7446N 
SN7447N 
SN7448N 
SN7450N 
SN7451N 
SN7453N 
SN7454N 
SN7459A 
SN7460N 



1.75 



3.00 



7400 TTL 

SN7470N .29 

SN7472N .29 

SN7473N .35 

SN7474N .35 

SN7475N .49 

SN7476N .35 

SN7479N 5.00 

SN7480N .50 

SN7482N .99 

SN7483N .59 

SN74B5N .89 
SN7486N 
SN7489N 
SN7490N 
SN7491N 
SN7492N 
SN7493N 
SN7494N 
SIM 7495 N 
SN7496N 
SN7497N 

SN74100N 1.25 

SN74107N .35 

SN 74109 N .59 

SN74116N 1.95 

5N74121N .35 

SN74122N .39 

SN74123N .59 

SN74125N .49 

SN74126N .49 

SN74132N .75 

SN74136N .75 

SN74141N .79 

SN74142N 2.95 

SN74143N 2.95 

SN74144N 2.95 

SN74145N .79 

SN74147N 1.95 

5N7414BN 1.29 

SN74150N 1.25 

SN74151N .59 

SN74152N .59 

SN741S3N .59 

SN74154N 1.50 

SN74155N .79 

SN74156N .79 

SN74157N .65 



^W 



SN74160N .89 

SN74161N .89 

SN74162N 1.95 

SN74163N .89 

SN74164N .89 

SN74165IM .89 

SN74166N 1.25 

SN74167N 1.95 

SN74170N 1.59 

SN74172N 6.00 

SN74173N 1.25 

SN74174N 1.00 

SN74175N 1.00 

SN74176N .79 

SN74177N .79 

SN74179N 1.95 

SN74180N .79 

SN74181N 1.95 

SN74182N .79 

SN74184N 1.95 

SN74185N 1.95 

SN74186N 9.95 

SN74188N 3.95 

SN74190N 1.25 

SN74191N 1.25 

SN74192N .79 

SN74I93N .79 

SN74194N .89 

SN74195N .69 

SN74196N .89 

SN74197N .89 

SN74198N 1.49 

SN 74199 N 1.49 

SN 745200 4.95 

SN74251N .99 

SN74279N .79 

SN74283N 2.25 

SN74284N 3.95 

SN 74285 N 3.95 

SN74365N .69 

SN 74366 N .69 

SN74367N .69 

SN74368N .69 

SN74390N 1.95 

SN74393N 1.95 



CD4000 
CD4001 
CD4002 
CD4006 
CD4007 
CD4009 
CD4010 
CD4011 
CD4012 
C D4013 
CO4014 
CD4015 
CD4016 
CD4017 
CD4018 
CD4019 
CD4020 
CD4021 
CD4022 
CD4023 
CD4024 
CD4025 
CO4026 
CD4027 



CMOS 



1.19 

1.39 
1.19 



CD4028 
CD4029 
CD4030 
CD4035 
CD4040 
CD4041 
CD4042 
CD4043 
CD4044 
CD4046 
CD4047 
CD4048 
CD4049 
CD4050 
CD4051 
CD4053 
CD4056 
CD4059 
CD4060 
CD4066 
CD4068 
CD4069 



1.79 
2.50 
1.35 



1.19 
1.19 
2.95 

9.95 
1.49 



CD4O70 

CD4071 

C D4072 

CD4076 

CD4081 

CD4082 

CD4093 

CD4098 

MC14409 14.95 

MC14410 14.95 

MC 14411 14.95 

MC14419 4.95 

MC 14433 13.95 

MC 14506 .75 

MC14507 .99 

MC 14562 11.95 

MC 14583 2.49 

CD4508 

C D4510 

CD4511 

CD451S 

CD4518 

CD4520 

CD4566 



1.39 



1.19 



3.95 
1.39 
1.29 
2.95 
1.29 
1.29 
2.25 



74CO0 
74C02 
74C04 
74C08 
74C10 
74C14 
74C20 
74C30 
74C42 
74C48 
74C73 
74C74 



74C00 



74C85 
74C90 
74C93 
74C95 
74C107 
74C1S1 
74C1S4 
74C157 
74C160 
74C161 



1-95 
1.95 
1.25 
2.90 
3.00 
2.15 



74C163 
74C164 
74C173 
74C192 
74C193 
74C195 
74C922 
74C923 
74C925 
74C926 
80C95 
80C97 



2.49 
2.49 
2.60 
2.49 



6.25 
8.95 
8.95 
1.50 
1.50 



78MG 1.75 

LM106H .99 

LM300H .80 
LM301CN/H .35 

LM302H .75 

LM304H 1.00 

LM305H .60 
LM307CN/H .35 
LM308CN/H1.00 

LM309H 1.10 

LM309K 1.25 

LM310CN 1.95 

LM3UN/H .90 

LM312H 1.95 

LM317K 6.50 
LM318CN/H 1.50 

LM319N 1.30 

LM320K-5 1.35 

LM320K-5.2 1.35 

LM320K-12 1.25 

LM320K-15 1.35 

LM320K-18 1.35 

LM320K-24 1.35 

LM320T-5 1.25 

LM320T-5.2 1.25 

LM320T-8 1.25 

LM320T-12 1.25 

LM320T-15 1.25 

LM320T-18 1.25 

LM320T-24 1.25 

LM323K-5 5.95 

LM324N 1.49 

LM339N .99 

LM340K-5 1.35 

LM340K-G 1.35 

LM340K-8 1.35 

LM340K-12 1.35 

LM340K-15 1.35 



LINEAR 

LM340K-18 1.35 

LM340K-24 1.35 

LM340T-5 1.25 

LM340T-6 1.25 

LM340T-8 1.25 

LM340T-12 1.25 

LM340T-15 1.25 

LM340T-18 1.25 

LM340T-24 1.25 

LM358N 1.00 

LM370N 1.95 

LM373N 3.25 

LM377N 4.00 

LM380N 1.25 

LM380CN .99 

LM381N 1.79 

LM382N 1.79 

NE501N 8.00 

NE510A 6.00 

NE529A 4.95 

NE531H/V 3.95 

NE536T 6.00 

NE540 6.00 

NE544N 4.95 

NE550N 1.30 

NE555V .39 

NE556N .99 

NE560B 5.00 

NE562B 5.00 

NE565N/H 1.25 

NE566CN 1.75 

NE567V/H .99 

NE570N 4.95 
LM703CM/H .69 

LM709N/H .29 



LM710N .79 

LM711N .39 

LM723N/H .55 

LM733N 1.00 

LM739N 1.19 
LM741CN/H .35 

LM741-14N .39 

LM747N/H .79 

LM748N/H .39 

LM1310N 1.95 
LM1458CN/H .59 

MC1488N 1.95 

MC1489N 1.95 

LM1496N .95 

LM1556V 1.75 

MC1741SCP 3.00 

LM21UN 1.95 

LM2901N 2.95 

LM3053N 1.50 

LM3065N 1.49 
LM 3900 N (3401). 59 

LM3905N 1.49 

LM3909N 1.25 

MC5558V .59 

8038 B 4.95 

LM75450N .49 

75451CN .39 

75452CN .39 

75453CN .39 

75454CN .39 

75491CN .79 

75492CN .89 

75493 N .89 

75494CN .89 

RC4136 1.25 

RC41S1 3.95 

RC4194 4.95 

RC4195 4.49 



74LS00 
74LS01 
74LS02 
74LS03 
74LS04 
74LS05 
74LS08 
74LS09 
74LS10 
74LS11 
74LS13 
74LS14 
74LS15 
74LS20 
74LS21 
74LS22 
74LS26 
74LS27 
74LS28 
74LS30 
74LS32 
74LS37 
74LS40 
74LS42 
h.74l_547 



74LS00TTL 

74LS51 .29 

74LS54 .29 

74LS55 .29 

74LS73 .54 

74LS74 .54 

74LS75 .71 

74LS76 .54 

74LS78 .49 

74LS83 1.05 

74LS85 1.50 

74LS86 .54 

74LS90 .71 

74LS92 .90 

74LS93 .90 

74LS95 .99 

74LS96 1.15 

74LS107 .54 

74LS109 .54 

74 LSI 12 .54 

74LS123 1.50 

74LS125 1.05 

74LS132 .99 

74LS136 .59 

74LS138 1.05 



74LS139 
74LS1S1 
74LS155 
74LS157 
74LS160 
74LS161 
74LS162 
74LS163 
74LS164 
74LS175 
74LS181 
74LS190 
74LS191 
74LS192 
74LS193 
74LS194 
74LS195 
74LS253 
74LS257 
74LS258 
74LS260 
74LS279 
74LS367 
74 L 5368 
74L5670 



aCromemco 
incorporated 



Z80-4MHz Single Card Computer 




DISCRETE LEDS 



XC556R .200" red 5/$l 

XC556G .200" green 4/$l 

XC556Y .200" yellow 4/$l 

XC556C .200" clear 4/$l 

200" red 5/$l 

200" green 4/$l 

200" yellow 4/$l 

170" red 4/$l 



XC22R 
XC22G 
XC22Y 
MV10B 



MV50 .085" red 6/$l 

XC209R .125" red 5/$l 

XC209G .125" green 4/$l 

XC209Y .125" yellow 4/$l 

XC526R .185" red 5/$l 

XC526G .185" green 4/$l 

XC526Y .185" yellow 4/$l 

XC526C .185" clear 4/$l 



XC111R .190" red 5/$l 

XC111G .190" green 4/$l 

XC111Y .190" yellow 4/$l 

XC111C .190" clear 4/$l 



DISPLAY LEDS 



MAN 1 
MAN 2 
MAN 3 
MAN 4 
MAN 7G 
MAN 7Y 
MAN 72 
MAN 74 
MAN 82 
MAN 84 
MAN 3620 
MAN 3630 
MAN 3640 
MAN 4610 
MAN 4640 
MAN 4710 
MAN 4730 
MAN 4740 
MAN 4810 
MAN 4840 
MAN 6610 
MAN 6630 
MAN 6640 
MAN 6650 
MAN 6660 
MAN 6680 
MAN 6710 



POLARITY 

Common Anode-red 
5 x 7 Dot Matrix-red 
Common Cathode-fed 
Common Catnode-red 
Common Anode -green 
Common Anode-yellow 
Common Anode-red 
Common Cathode -red 
Common Anode-yellow 
Common Cathode-yellow 
Common Anode-Orange 
Common Anode-orange ± 1 
Common Cathode -orange 
Common Anode -orange 
Common Cathode-orange 
Common An ode -red 
Common Anode-red ± 1 
Common Cathode -red 
Common Anode-yellow 
Common Cathode -yellow 
Common Anode -orange -D D 
Common Anode-orange ± 1 
Common Cathode-orange-D 
Common Cathode-orange ± 1 
Common Anode-orange 
Common Cathode-oranije 
Common Anode-red-D.D. 



PRICE 
2.95 

4.95 



TYPE 

MAN 6730 

MAN 6740 

MAN 6750 

MAN 6760 

MAN 6780 

DL701 

OL704 

DL707 

DL728 

DL741 

DL746 

DL747 

DL749 

DL750 

DL338 

FND70 

FND358 

FND359 

FNO503 

FND507 

5082-7730 

HDSP-34O0 

HDSP-3403 

5082-7300 

5082-7302 

5082-7304 

5082-7340 



POLARITY 

Common Anode-red ± 1 
Common Cathode -red- DO 
Common Cathode-red ± 1 
Common Anode-red 
Common Cathode-red 
Common Anode- red ± 1 
Common Cathode-red 
Common Anode-red 
Common Cathode-red 
Common Anode -red 
Common Anode-red ± 1 
Common Anode-red 
Common Cathode-red ± 1 
Common Cathode-red 
Common Cathode-red 
Common Cathode 
Common Cathode ± 1 
Common Cathode 
Common Cathode(FND500) 
Common Anode (FND510) 
Common Anode-red 
Common Anode-red 
Common Cathode red 
4 x 7 sgl. Digit-RHDP 
4x7 Sgl. Digit-LHDP 
Over range character (±1) 
4x7 Sgl. Dig it -Hexadecimal 



1.50 
1.50 

19.95 
19.95 
15.00 
22.50 



RCA LINEAR 



CA3013T 2.15 

CA2023T 3.25 

CA3035T 2.48 

CA3039T 1.35 

CA3046N 1.30 

CA3059N 3.25 

CA3060N 3.25 
CA30B0T 



1.25 



CA3081N 2.00 



CA3082N 2.00 

CA3083N 1.60 

CA3086N .85 

CA3089N 3.75 

CA3130T 1.39 

CA3140T 1.25 

CA3160T 1.25 

CA3401N .59 

CA3600N 3.50 



CALCULATOR 

CHIPS/DRIVERS 



$2.95 
2.95 
2.00 



MM5725 
MM5738 
DM8864 
DM8865 
DM8887 
DM8889 .75 

9374 7-seg. 
LED driver 1.50 
MM 5309 4.95 



LOW PROFILE 
(TIN) SOCKETS 



8 pin LP 
14 pin LP 
16 pin LP 
18 pin LP 
20 pin LP 
22 pin LP 
24 pin LP 
28 pin LP 
36 pin LP 
40 pin LP 



IT I" IT IT 

8 pin SG 
14 pin SG 
16 pin SG 
18 pin SG 
24 pin SG 
28 pin SG 
36 pin SG 
40 pin SG 



SOLDERTAIL (GOLD) 
STANDARD 



1.00 
1.40 
1.59 



MM 5309 4.95 

MM5311 4.95 

MM5312 4.95 

MM5314 4.95 

MM5316 6.95 

MM 5318 9.95 

MMS369 2.95 
MM5387/1998a4.95 

CT 7001 6.95 



MC1408L7 4.95 

MC1408L8 5.75 

MC1439L 2.95 

MC3022P 2.95 

MC3061P 3.50 
MC4016(74416)7.50 

MC4024P 3.95 

MC4040P 6.95 

MC4044P 4.50 



IK 

IT 1 1 1 1 J 



SOLDERTAIL 
STANDARD (TIN) 



14 pin ST 
16 pin ST 
18 pin ST 
24 pin ST 
28 pin ST 
36 pin ST 
40 pin ST 



mi- 

m 

a pin ww 

10 pin WW 
14 pin WW 
16 pin WW 
18 pin WW 
20 pin WW 
22 pin WW 
24 pin WW 
28 pin WW 
36 pin WW 
40 pin WW 



WIRE WRAP SOCKETS 
(GOLD) LEVEL #3 



1.69 
2.19 

2.29 



1/4 WATT RESISTOR ASSORTMENTS -5% 



10 OHM 12 OHM 15 OHM 18 OHM 22 OHM 

27 OHM 33 OHM 39 OHM 47 OHM 56 OHM 

68 OHM 82 OHM 100 OHM 120 OHM 150 OHM 

180 OHM 220 OHM 270 OHM 330 OHM 390 OHM 

470 OHM 560 OHM 680 OHM 820 OHM IK 

I.2K 1.5* 1.8K 2.2K 

3.3K 3.9K 4.7K 



so pes $1.75 
so pcs 1 .75 



2.7K 



8.2K 



I2K 



1.75 

1.75 

1.75 

1.75 

1.75 
ASST. 8R Includes Resistor Assortments 1-7 (350 PCS.) $9.95 ea. 



10K 



470K 
1.2M 



5.6k 
15K 



100K 
270K 



18K 
47K 
120K 
330K 
820K 
2.2M 



50 PCS 
50 PCS 
50 PCS 
50 PCS 
50 PCS 



$10.00 Min. Order - U.S. Funds Only Spec Sheets - 25e 

Calif. Residents Add 6% Sales Tax 1980 Catalog Available —Send 41 i stamp 

Postage — Add 5% plus $1 Insurance (if desired) 

PHONE 

ORDERS 

WELCOME 

(415)592-8097 




ELECTRONICS 



MAIL ORDER ELECTRONICS - WORLDWIDE 

1355 SHOREWAY ROAD, BELMONT, CA 94002 

PRICES SUBJECT TO CHANGE 



AY-5-9100 
AY -5-9200 
AY -5-9500 
AY -5-2376 
HD0165 
74C922 
74C923 



TELEPHONE/KEYBOARD CHIPS ^fc 

Push Button Telephone Dialler $14.95 

Repertory Dialler 14.98 

CMOS Clock Generator 4.95 

Keyboard Encoder (88 keys) 14.95 

Keyboard Encoder (16 keys) 7.95 

Keyboard Encoder (16 keys) 7.95 

Keyboard Encoder (20 keys) 6.25 



I CM 7045 
ICM7205 
ICM7207 
ICM7208 
ICM7209 



ICM CHIPS 

CMOS Precision Timer 
CMOS LED Stopwatch/Timer 
Oscillator Controller 
Seven Decade Counter 
Clock Generator 



24.95 
19.95 

7.50 
19.95 

6.95 



NM0S READ ONLY MEMORIES 

MCM6571 128 X 9 X 7 ASCII Shifted with Greek 13.50 

MCM6574 128 X 9 X 7 Math Svmbol & Pictures 13.50 

MCM6575 128 X 9 X 7 Alpha Control Char Gen 13.50 



MISCELLANEOUS 

TL074CN Quad Low Noise bi-fet Op Amp 2.49 

TL494CN Switching Regulator 4.49 

TL496CP Single Switching Regulator 1.75 

11C90 Divide 10/11 Prescafer 19.95 

95H90 Hi-Speed Divide 10/11 Prescaler 11,95 

4N33 Photo -Darlington Opto -Isolator 3.95 

MK50240 Top Octave Freq. Generator 17.50 

DS0026CH 5MB 2-phase M0S clock driver 3.75 

T1L308 .27" red num. display w/integ. logic chip 10.95 

MM5320 TV Camera Sync. Generator 14.95 

MM5330 4Vz Digit DPM Logic Block (Special) 3.95 

LD1 10/111 m Digit A/D Converter Set 25.00/set 

MC14433P 3V; Digit A/D Converter 13.35 



UTRONIX ISO-LIT 1 

Photo Transistor Opto-lsolator 
(Same as MCT 2 or 4N25) 

49<2 each 



SN 76477 

SOUND GENERATOR 
Generates Complex Sounds 
Low Power - Programmable 

$3.95 each 



TV GAME CHIP AND CRYSTAL 

AY-3-8500-1 and 2.01 MHZ Crystal (Chip & Crystal _ ft _ . . 
includes score display, 6 games and select angles, etc. / .95/S6t 



$8.40 
4.40 
4.40 
1.55 
1.50 



XR205 

XR210 

XR215 

XR32Q 

XR-L555 

XR555 



XR567CP .99 

XR567CT 1.25 

XR1310P 1.95 

XR1468CN 3.85 

XR1488 1.95 

XR1489 1.95 



EXAR 



JE2206KB 19.95 
XR1800 3.20 



XR2240 3.45 



XR2242CP 1.50 
XR2264 4.25 



XR2556 

XR2567 
XR3403 
XR4136 
XR4151 
XR4194 
XR4202 
XR4212 
XR4558 
XR4739 
XR4741 



3.20 
2.99 
1.25 

1.25 
3.95 

4 95 
3.60 
2.05 



1N746 
1N751 
1N752 
1N753 
1N754 
1N757 
1N759 
1N959 
1N965 
1N5232 
1N5234 
1N5235 
1NS236 
1N5242 
1M524S 
1N456 
1N458 
1N485A 
1N4Q01 



DIODES 

VOLTS w 

400m 
400m 
400m 
400m 
400m 
■400m 
400m 
40Qm 
400m 
500m 
500m 
500m 
500m 
500m 
500m 
40m 



4/1.00 
4/1.00 
4/1.00 
4/1.00 
4/1 00 
4/1,00 
4/1.00 
4/1.00 
4/1,00 



6/1.00 
6/1.00 
5/1.00 
12/100 



TYPE 

IN4002 
1N4Q03 
1N4004 
1N4005 
1N4006 
1N4007 
1N3600 
1N4148 
1N4154 
1N4733 
1N4734 
1N4735 
tfJ4736 
1M4738 
1N4742 
1N4744 
1N1183 
1N1184 

mm 

1 Ml 186 
1N1188 



VOLTS W 

100PIV1 AMP 
200 PIV 1 AMP 
400 PIV 1 AMP 
600 PIV 1 AMP 
800 PIV 1 AMP 
1000 PIV 1 AMP 
200m 



10m 
10m 



PRICE 
12/1.00 
12/1 00 
12/1.00 
10/1.00 
10/1.00 
10/1.00 

6/1.00 

15/1.00 

12/1 00 

28 

28 



lw 



12 

15 1w 

50 PIV 35 AMP 
100 PIV 35 AMP 
150 PIV 35 AMP 
200 PIV 35 AMP 
400 PIV 35 AMP 



C36D 
C36M 
2M2328 
MOA 980-1 
MDA 980-3 



SCR AND FW BRIDGE RECTIFIERS 



15A& 400V 
| 600V 
i 300V 



$1.95 
1.95 



C106B1 

MPSA05 

MPSA06 

TIS97 

TIS9B 

40409 

40410 

40673 

2N918 

2N2219A 

2N2221A 

2N2222A 

PM2222 Plastic 

2N2369A 

MPS2369 

2N2484 

2N2906 

2N2907 

2N2925 
MJE2955 
2N3053 



Tr7RsT5t5rs 



FW BRIDGE REC 
FW BRIDGE REC. 



5/1.00 
6/1.00 
6/1.00 



4/1 00 
2/1.00 
4/1.00 
5/1.00 
7/1.00 
4/1.00 
5/1.00 
4/1.00 
4/1.00 
5/1.00 



5/1.00 



2N3055 

MJE3055 

2N3392 

2N3398 

PN3567 

PN3568 

PN3569 

MPS3638A 

MPS3702 

2N3704 

MPS3704 

2N3705 

MPS3705 

2N3706 

MPS3706 

2N3707 

2N3711 

2N3724A 

2N3725A 

2N3772 

2N3823 

2N3903 



1 00 

5/1.00 
5/1.00 
3/1.00 
4/1 .00 
4/1.00 
5/1.00 
5/1.00 
5/1.00 
5/1.00 
5/1.00 
5/1.00 
5/1.00 
5/1.00 
5/1 00 
5/1.00 
,65 
1.00 



2N3904 
2N3905 
2N3906 
2N4013 
2N4123 
PN4249 
PN4250 
2N44O0 
2N4401 
2N4402 
2N4403 
2N4409 
2N5086 
2N5087 
2N5088 
2N5089 
2^5129 
PN5134 
PN5138 
2N5139 
2N5210 
2H5449 
2N5951 



4/1,00 
4/1.00 
4/1.00 
3/1.00 
6/1 00 
4/1.00 
4/1.00 
4/1 .00 
4/1.00 
4/1.00 
4/1.00 
5/1.00 
4/1. 00 
4/1.00 
4/1.00 
4/1.00 
5/1.00 
5/1.00 
5/1.00 
5/1.00 
5/1.00 
3/1 00 
.3^00, 



CAPACITOR SEES CORNER 



10 pf 
22 pi 
47 pf 
100 pf 
220 pf 
470 Df 

.001 mf 
.0022 
.0047mf 

,01 mf 

.1/35V 
.15/35V 
. 22/35 V 
33/35V 
47/35V 
68/35V 
1 .0/35V 



.47/50V 

1.0/50V 

3.3/50V 

4.7/25V 

10/25V 

10/50V 

22/25V 

22/50V 

47/25V 

47/50V 

100/25V 

100/50V 

220/25V 

220/50V 

470/25V 

1 000/1 6V 

2200/ 16V 



10-99 Wb. 
)5 .04 .03 001 M F 
)5 04 .03 0047 M F 

)5 .04 .03 .Staf 
15 04 03 ,022/iF 
)5 .04 03 047 M F 

)5 .04 .035 IdF 
100 VOLT MYUR FILM CAPACITORS 

022m( 

047mf 



U 10 . -99 100' 
.05 .04 .035 
.05 .04 035 



.12 



.10 .07 



1mf 



21 



.17 



.27 .23 



.22mf 

+ 20% DIPPED TANTALUMS (SOLID! CAPACITORS 
.39 .31 .25 1 5/35V , 41 ,33 

.39 .31 .25 2. 2/35 V .51 .41 

.39 .31 .25 33/25V .53 .43 

.39 .31 .25 4.7/25V .63 .51 

.39 .31 .25 6.8/25V .79 .63 

.39 .31 .25 15/ 3 5V 1.39 1.12 

.39 .31 .25 22/6V -^ -63 

MINIATURE ALUMINUM ELECTROLYTIC CAPACITORS 



.15 



,13 



.10 



47/25V 
47/50V 
10/16V 
1.0/25V 
1.0/50V 
4.7/16V 
4 7/25V 
4.7/50V 
10/16V 
10/25V 
10/50V 
47/50V 
100/16V 
100/25V 
100/50V 
220/16V 
470/25V 



15 



.13 



260 BYTE April 1980 



Circle 208 on inquiry card. 



MINIATURE SCREWDRIVER 



MAGNETIC RETRIEVER TOOL 



Picks up elusive metal parts or tools 
in hard-to-reach places. 

EXTENDS TO 26%" - ROTATES 360° 
STRONG, LIFETIME MAGNET 

MRT-228T $3.95 



i CONTINENTAL SPECIALTIES 



LOGIC PROBE KIT 



SPECIFICATIONS 
Input Impedance: 300,000 Ohms. 
Thresholds: "Lo" 30%Vcc - "Hi" 70%Vcc 
Maximum Speed: 300 nsec, 1.5MHz 
Input Protection: 150VDC continuous 117VAC 
for 15 sec. 

Power: 30mA @5V - 40mA 9 16V— 25V max. 
reverse voltage protected; 36" cable with color 
coded clips included. 
Operating Temp.: 0-50"C. 
Dimensions: 5.8L x I.OWx 0.7D in. 
(147 x 25 x 18mm) 
Weight: 30 oz. (85 gm) 
LPK-1 $21.95/Kit 



m w 



»»»; 



Praia Clips 

14 PIN CLIP PC-14 .... $ 4.50 

16 PIN CLIP PC 16 .... $ 4.75 

24-PINCLIP PC-24 .... $10.00 

40-PIN CLIP PC-40 .... $16.00 



Praia Boards 

PB-6 $17.95 

PB-100 19.95 

PB-101 22.95 

;$$ 1 PB-102 26.95 

PB-103 44.95 

PB-104 55.95 

PB-203 99.95 

PB-203A 155.00 

PB 2Q3A Kit . . . 131.00 




Jumbo 6-DJgit Clock Kit 




* Four .630"ht. and two ,300"ht. 

common anode displays 

* Uses MMS314 clock chip 

* Switches for hours, minutes and hold functions 

* Hours easily viewable to 30 feet 

* Simulated walnut case 

* 115VAC operation 

* 12 or 24 hour operation 

* Includes all components, case and wall transformer 

* Size: 6V* x 3V 8 x 1¥* 

JE747 $29.95 




JE701 



• Bright .300 ht. comm. cath- 
ode display 

• Uses MM5314 clock chip 

• Switches for hours, minutes 
and hold modes 

• Hrs. easily viewable to 20 ft, 

• Simulated walnut case 

• 115 VAC operation 

• 1 2 or 24 hr. operation 

• Incl. all components, case & 
wall transformer 

•Size: 6K" x 3 1/8" x 1 %" 



MICROPROCESSOR COMPONENTS 



6-Digit Clock Kit $19.95 



Regulated Power Supply 

Uses LM309K. Heat sink . V 
provided. PC board con- — ** 
struction. Provides a solid 
1 amp @ 5 volts. Can supply up 
to ±5V, ±9V and ±12V with 
JE205 Adapter. Includes compo- 
nents, hardware and instructions. 
Size: 3%" x 5" x 2"H 

JE200 $14.95 



ADAPTER BOARD 
-Adapts to JE200- 
±5V, ±9V and ±12V 



DC/DC converter with +5V input. Toriodal hi- 
speed switching XMFR. Short circuit protection. 
PC board construction. Piggy-back to JE 200 
board. Size: 3%" x 2" x 9/16"H 





\JE205 



$12.95 



aoaoA 

8212 
8214 
8216 
8224 
8226 
8228 
8238 
8251 
8253 
8255 
8257 
8259 



-808M/8080A SUPPORT DEVICES- 
CPU 

8-Bit Input/Output 
Priority Interrupt Control 
Bi-Directional Bus Driver 
Clock Generator/Driver 
Bus Driver 

System Controller/Bus Driver 
System Controller 
Prog Comm. 1/0 (USART) 
Prog Interval Timer 
Prog Penph, 170 (PPI) 
Prog DMA Control 
Prog. Interrupt Control 
— 6800/6800 SUPPORT DEVICES — 



S 7 95 
3.25 
5.95 
3.49 
3.95 
3.49 
495 
5.95 
7.95 
14.95 
9.95 
19 95 
1995 



M-280 

M-CDP1802 

M-2650 


-MICROPROCESSOR MANUALS 

User Manual 
User Manual 
User Manual 


S7.50 
7.50 
5.00 


2513(2140) 
2513(3021) 
2516 
MM5230N 


Character Gene ratorf upper case) 
Character Generatorflower case) 
Character Generator ' 
2048-Bit Read Only Memory 

RAM'S 


$9.95 
9.95 

10.95 
1.95 



MC8802CP 

MC6810AP) 

MC6821 

MC8828 

MC6830L8 

MC6850 

MC6852 

MC6860 

MC6862 

MC6880A 



Z80(78QC) 
Z60A(780-1) 
COP 1802 
2650 
6502 



MPU 


$14.95 


MPU with Clock and Ram 


24.95 


12BX8 Static Ram 


5.95 


Penph. Inter Adapt (MC6820) 


7.49 


Priority Interrupt Controller 


12 95 


1024X8 Bit ROM (MC68A30-8) 


14.95 


Asynchronous Comm Adapter 


7.95 


Synchronous Serial Data Adapt. 


9.95 


0-600 bps Digital MODEM 


12.95 


2400 bps Modulator 


14.95 


Quad 3 -State Bus Trans. IMC8T26) 


2.25 



S13.95 
15.95 
19.95 



8 -Bit MPU * /clock. RAM. 1/0 tines 



MM500H 

MM503H 

MM504H 

MM506H 

MM510H 

MM5016H 

2554T 

2518 

2522 

2524 

2525 

2527 

2528 

2529 

2532 

3341 

74LS670 



SHIFT REGISTERS 

Dual 25 Bit Dynamic 
Dual 50 Bit Dynamic 
Dual 16 Bit Static 
Dual 100 Bit Static 
Dual 64 Bit Accumulator 
500/51 2 Bit Dynamic 
1024 Dynamic 
Hex 32 Bit Static 
Dual 132 Bit Stan: 
512 Static 
1024 Dynamic 
Dual 256 Bit Static 
Dual 250 Static 
Dual 240 Bit Static 
Quad B0 Bit Static 
Fito 
4X4 Register File (TnState) 



1101 

1103 

2101(8101) 

2102 

21L02 

2111(8111) 

2112 

2114 

2114L 

2114-3 

2114L-3 

5101 

5280/2107 

7489 

74S200 

93421 

UPD414 

(MK4027) 
UP0416 

(MK4116) 
TMS4044- 

45NL 
TMS4045 
2117 



256X1 

1024X1 

256X4 

1024X1 

1024X1 

256X4 

256X4 

1024X4 

1024X4 

1024X4 

1024X4 

256X4 

4096X1 

16X4 

256X1 

256X1 

4K 



$.50 MM5262 



Static 

Dynamic 

Static 

Static 

Static 

Static 

Static M0S 

Static 450ns 

Static 450ns low power 

Static 300ns 

Static 300ns low power 

Static 

Dynamic 

Static 

Static Tristate 

Static 

Dynamic 16 pin 

Dynamic 16 pin 250ns 

Static 

Static 

Dynamic 350ns 
(house marked) 
Dynamic 



1495 
14.95 



3.95 
4.95 
2.95 
.99 
2.95 
2,95 
4.00 
4.00 
2.95 
695 
2,49 



-Y-5-1013 :n:- -■■■:■ 



1702A 

2716INTEI 

TMS2516 

(2716) 

TMS2532 

2708 

2716 T I 

"Re 
5203 

6301-1(7611) 
6330-1(7602) 
82S23 
82S115 
82S123 
74186 
74188 
74S287 



2048 FAM0S 

16K" EPR0M 

16K* EPROM 

•Requires single + 5V power supply 

4KX8 EPROM 

8K EPROM 

16K" 6PR0M 

quires 3 voltages. — 5V, +5 

2048 FAMOS 

Tristate Bipolar 
Open C Bipolar 
Open Collector 



$5.95 
59.95 
39.95 



•2\l 



• m 



32X8 
4096 
32X8 



14.95 
3.49 
2.9S 



Tristate 

TTL Open Collector 

TTL Open Collector 

Static 



JE600 HEXADECIMAL 
ENCODER KIT 

FEATURES: 

• Full 8 hit latched output tor micro- 
processor use 

• 3 User Deltne keys with one being bi- 
stable operation 

• Debounca circuit provided tor all 19 
keys 

• LED readout to verify entries 

• Easy interfacing with standard 16 ptn 
1 C connector 

• Only *5V0C required tor ooerations 
FULL 8 BIT LATCHED 0UTPUT-19 KEYBOARD 

The JE6O0 Encoder Keyboard provides two separate hexadecimal 
digits produced trom sequential key entries to allow direct prog- 
ramming for B bit microprocessor or 8 bit memory circuits Three 
(3) additional keys are provided for user operations with one having 
a bistable output available The outputs are latched and monitored 
with LED readouts Also included is a kev entry strobe 

JE600 $59.95 

Hexadecimal Keypad only $14.95 




DIGITAL 
THERMOMETER KIT 




■ Dual sensors— switching control for in- 
door/outdoor or dual monitoring 

• Continuous LED .8" ht. display 

• Range: -40°F to 199°F / -40°C to 1 00°C 
■Accuracy: ±1° nominal 

• Set for Fahrenheit or Celsius reading 
■Sim. walnut case - AC wall adapter mcl. 

• Size: 3-1/4"Hx6-5/8"Wx1-3/8"D 

JE300 $39.95 



62-Key ASCII Encoded Keyboard Kit 




The JE610 62- Key ASCII Encoded Keyboard 
Kit can be interfaced into most any com- 
puter system. The JE610 Kit comes com- 
plete with an industrial grade keyboard 
switch assembly (62 keys), IC's, sockets, 
connector, electronic components and a 
double-sided printed wiring board. The 
keyboard assembly requires +5V @ 150mA 
and -12V @ 10mA for operation. 



FEATURES: 

•60 Keys generate the full 128 char- 
acters, upper and lower case ASCII 
set 

* Fully buffered 

* 2 user-define keys provided for 
custom applications 

•Caps lock for upper case only 

alpha characters 
•Utilizes a 2376 (40 pin) encoder 

read only memory chip 

* Outputs directly compatible with 
TTL/DTL or MOS logic arrays 

* Easy interfacing with a 16-pin dip 
or 1 8-pin edge connector 

JE610 $79.95 

62-Key Keyboard only . . $34.95 



hickok LX303 Portable LCD Digital Multimeter 







er 200 Hours 
n MOOmVDCf.S 
le and removable cou 



SPECIFICATIONS DC nit, (S r.nqn!' O Mnv 10 10 

I :v h»M»V; Accuracy; i 1 .0% rtjj ±Q.B*b t 
H.-v»:.i„.. (6 Lo* P.™ H,o».»i J : -u 70Mll Accurst: ±0 5% F< 

DC CFJ»r.FVI IS .in,.!! 01 n A in 100mA, A«u.K V 1 1 0% Fd S ±0 SKI I 
Ota WnetH Lv ' s < 3-J-8- . 1 .1.4 Bur POWER 9V F* 
READ HATE 3rs« 



-24B<r>3, atbkHj 



3\ St Hi I, Ms». inpul 6) 
■l.S*rrtflon 20MO-a 



LX303 



Digital Multimeter ....... $74.95 



115V AC ADAPTER 

PADDED CARRYING CASE 

X10 DC PROBE ADAPTER (Up lo IQK) 

40kV DC PROBE 

10 Amp DC Current Shunt 



. 7.50 
7.50 
14,95 
35.00 

14.95 



$10.00 Min. Order - U.S. Funds Only 
Calif. Residents Add 6% Sales Tax 
Postage- Add 5% plus $1 Insurance (if 




Spec Sheets - 254 

1980 Catalog Available - Send 41 i stamp 



PHONE 

ORDERS 

WELCOME 

(415)592-8097 



ameco 



ELECTRONICS 



MAIL ORDER ELECTRONICS - WORLDWIDE 

1355 SHOREWAY ROAD, BELMONT, CA 94002 

PRICES SUBJECT TO CHANGE 



The Incredible 
Pennywhistle 103' 



$139.95 



Kit Only 




Maximum Data Rata . . 



Receive Channel Frequencis* . 



103 is capable of recording data to and from audio tape without 
critical speed requirements for the recorder and it is able to communicate directly with 
another modern and terminal tor telephone "hamming"' and communications. In 
addition , it is free of critical adjustments and is built with non-precision, readily available 
parts 
Data TrammiMion Method Frequency-Shift Keying, full -duplex (halt-duplex 

selectable) 

300 Baud. 

Synchronous Serial {return to mark level required 

between each character). 

.2025 Hz for space; 2225 Hz for mark 

Switch selectable Low (normal) = 1070 s 

1 270 mark: High ■ 025 space, 2225 mark 
46 dbm accoustically coupled 
15 dbm nominal. Adjustable from 6 dbm 

to 20 dbm. 

.Frequency reference automatically adjusts ti 

allow for operation between 1800 Hz and 2400 Hz 
Digital Data Inlertact EIA RS-232C or 20 mA current loop i receiver i 

optoisoiated and non-polar) 

Power Requirement! 120 VAC. single phase. 10 Watts 

Physical All components mount on a single 5" by 9 

printed circuit board All components included. 
Requires a V0M, Audio Oscillator, Frequency Counter and/or Oscilloscope to align 




TRS-80 
16K Conversion Kit 

Expand your 4K TRS-80 System to 16K. 
Kit comes complete with: 

* 8 each UPD416-1 (16K Dynamic Rams ) 250NS 

• Documentation for conversion 

TRS-16K $75.00 




JUST \JURAP' 

• 30 AWG wire • .025" square posts 

• Daisy chain or • Built-in cut off 
point-to-point • Includes 50 ft. wire 

• No stripping or slitting required— 

just wrap 



Part No. 


Cpjor 


Pr.ce 


JW-1-B 


Blue 


$14.95 


JW-1-W 


White 


14.95 


JW-1-Y 


Yellow 


14.95 


JW-1-R 


Red 


14.95 



JUST UbKAP Replacement Wire 

Pert No. Color Price 

R-JW-B Blue ........ 50 ft. roll $2.98 

R-JW-W White 50 ft. roll 2.98 

R-JW-Y Yellow 50 ft. roll 2.98 

R-JW-R Red so ft. roil 2.98 



JUST WRAP' Unwrap Tool $3.49 




Vacuum Vise 

Vacuum-based light-duty 
visa for small components 
and assemblies. A85 con- 
struction. f'H" jaws, 1%" 
travel. Can be permanently 
installed. 



VV-1 $3.49 




ADJUSTABLE WRENCH 



ZUQj 



•Two Sizes: 6" and 10" 
• Professional Quality 
•Chrome Vanadium Steel 



6"- AW-6 . . $4.95 10"- AW-10. . $6.95 



JOYSTICK 
VIDEO CONTROLLER 




• IDEAL FOR ALL VIDEO GAMES OR REMOTE CON- 
TROL PROJECTS 

• SMALL CASE SIZE: 1-1/2"H x 2-3/8"W x 4-5/16"L 

• 2 MINIATURE POTENTIOMETERS-40K OHM EACH 

• SPST PUSH BUTTON CONTROL 

• 5-VVIRE CONNECTION CABLE - 5 FEET LONG 

• RUGGED PLASTIC CASE 

JVC-40 $4.95eachy 



Circle 208 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 261 



BUY DIRECT FROM NCE/CompuMart 





Buy Direct from the Largest 
Commodore Dealer in the Country 
— NCE/CompuMart. 

8K-Keyboard N $795 

16K-Keyboard B $995 

1 6K-Key board N $995 

32K-Keyboard B $1 ,295 

32K-Keyboard N $1 ,295 

B — large keyboard (graphics not on keys) 
N — large keyboard with graphics symbols 

SUPER SAVER. Thanks to Commodore 

their printer prices have been drastically 

reduced: 

Commodore Printer (tractor feed) 

was $995 NOW $795 

Commodore Printer (friction feed) 

was $849 NOW $695 



NEW FROM EXIDY 

THE SORCERER II 48K COMPUTER 



CENTRONICS 
PRINTERS 



The 779-2 is a tractor 
feed printer designed 
for small business 
systems. Uses a 5x7 
dot matrix to produce 
all 64 upper case 
ASCII characters. 
Centronics is the big- 
gest name in printers 
and this is their most 
popular model. 

List. $1,245 

SALE! $1,079 



The New 730-1 parallel matrix printer is ideally suited for 
all personal and microcomputer systems. Standard 
Features include: 100 cps • 80 char. /line • 3-way paper 
handling system • 7x7 dot matrix * 96 character ASCII • 
List $995 SALE! $695 



The Perfect Printer for Small Business Systems 



2 Good reasons for buying % ^$ 

your PET™ from CompuMart: -rdCr^ 

(1) $100 IN FREE ACCESSORIES JfcdR^ 
WITH 16K or32K PET. 

When you buy a 16K or32K PET, apply $100 toward 
PET accessories FREE Choose from the acces- 
sories listed below and indicate on your order that 
you have reduced the cost of your accessories by 
$100. 

(2) FREE WITH PURCHASE 
OF ANY PET (Offer good 
until April 15, 1980) 

A Texas Instruments' Hex/Octal Calculator 
(S60 Value), and a set of 6 PET Workbooks 
(Worth $36). 
PET Accessories 

Commodore Dual Floppy Disk Drive .... $1 ,295 

Second Cassette— from Commodore $95 

Commodore PET Service Kit $30 

Beeper— Tells when tape is loaded $24 

Petunia— Play music from PET $29 

Video Buffer— Attach another CRT $29 

Combo— Petunia abd Video Buffer $49 

TNW Bi-Dir RS-232 printer 3-face $229 

KIM 1 (A Single Board Computer 

from Commodore) $179 

PET TO IEEE Cable $39 

IEEE TO IEEE Cable $49 

KIM^ ^P Q _ wer Sup ply Package Special . . $200 





We have a complete inventory of Apple computers, peri- 
pherals, & software In-Stock for immediate delivery — 
Call us for prices. 

$200 in FREE accessories with the purchase 
of a 48K Apple II reg, or Apple II plus. 
16K Apple reg or plus — $1,195 ($100 in free acces } 
32K Apple reg. or plus — $1,395 ($150 in free acces.) 
48K Apple reg. or plus — $1,495 ($200 in free acces.) 
Apple Accessories 

PASCAL $495 

Micromodem $379 

VisiCalc $1 50 

The Controller (Business Package) SALE! $550 

The Cashier (POS System) SALE! $200 

Integer BASIC ROM Card $200 

Centronics Printer Interface $225 

Disk and Controller $595 

Parallel Printer Card $180 

Communications Card $225 

Hi-Speed Serial Card $195 

Firmware Card $200 

NEW AppleWnter Text Editor $75 



.*»•** 



The 

I All-in-One 
Computer 




NOVATION CAT 

ACCOUSTIC MODEM 



Answer Originate • Bell 108 

300 Baud • Low Profile Design 






Loofcs good, works great! 



$179.00 



BRAND NEW! The Star" Modem from Livermore 
Special Introductory Price $158.00 



The Paper Tiger 
Printer From rOA^' 
Integral Data 

Standard features 
include: 4character 
8.3 to 16.5 cpi • 
56 cps at 10 char, 
per in. • Selectable 
line spacing • 
8 switch-selectable 
form sizes. 

The IDS Graphics Option for the Paper 
Tiger allows full dot pattern control and 
includes an expanded 2048-byte buffer 
(a 256-byte buffer is standard). 

IDS Paper Tiger Printer $995 

IDS Graphics Paper Tiger Printer $1,094 




SANYO MONITORS 



9- inch 

reg. $199 

SALE! $169 



Ol 



15-inch 

reg. $299 

SALE! $269 



Perfect for Apple users . . . 

Sanyo Cassette Recorder $55 



Save $300 off list on all Zenith Computers, $250 oft the 
printer. Build a great system usinq both and save $550. 

WH89 with 16K RAM list $2,295 . SALE! $1,995 

WH89 with 32K RAM list $2,445 SALE! $2,145 

WH89 with 48K RAM list $2,595 . . . SALE! $2,295 

Heath Printer list $895 . . . SALE! $650 

16K Memory Expansion list $150 SALE! $110 

Dual-port Serial Interface $85 

HD05 Operating System $100 

Microsoft Basic $100 

WH17 Second Disk Drive $550 

Only limited quantities of the Computers and Printers are 
available. Order Now. (Offer good until April 15, 



(Offer good t 



, 1980) 




SPECIAL 

OFFER 

EXCLUSIVE 

FROM 

COMPUMART! 

ZENITH 

COLOR VIDEO MONITOR 

Beautiful Display Capabilities. Excellent tor use with 
Apple, Atari, & Sorcerer Computers. This 13-inch 
monitor is Zenith's first color video display 
designed specifically for computers. Features 
include color and degaussing circuits. 
Zenith Color Monitor $499.00 




NCE/CompuMart 



We've Had a Reputation for 
Dependability Since 1971. 



DEPT. BY4, 270 THIRD ST., CAMBRIDGE, 
MA. 02142 

To Order: 1 (800) 343-5504 [~ 
In Mass: 1 (617) 491-2700 



HAZELTINE 
TERMINALS AT 
SPECTACULAR 
SAVINGS! 

Hazeltine 1410-TTY-style keyboard, 8 baud rates 
from 110 to 9600. 12" screen, 24x80 display, 5x7 dot 
Matrix Upper Case ASCII character set, 12-key 

numeric keypad. List Price $895 SALE! $779 

Hazeltine 1500 — 8 baud rates from 110 to 19.200, 
and ANSI Standard Keyboard. EIA RS-232. All 94 
Upper/Lower Case characters in a high resolution 
7x10 matrix display. Much more 

List Price $1,145 SALE! $995 

Hazeltine 1520 — Take advantage of this 5310 
savings while it lasts! The Hazeltine 1520 is a power- 
ful multi-processor terminal. 
List Price $1,585 SALE! $1,275 



REMOTE TERMINAL FOR YOUR 

PET 

Only $98 



Member 
Computer 



262 BYTE April 1980 



Circle 209 on inquiry card. 



10-DAY FREE TRIAL 



SEND FOR OUR 
FREE CATALOG 



Lear Siegler Terminals 
& Printers At 
Tremendous Savings 




ADM-3A- Industries' 
favorite dumb terminal for 
some very smart reasons, 
12" diaaonal screen • Full 
or half duplex operation at 
1 1 selectable data rates • 
1,920 easy-to-read char- 
acters in 24 rows of 80 
letters • RS-232C inter- 
face extension port • 
Direct cursor addressing. 

Reg. Price. $895 

Sale! $795 



ADM-31. A terminal that's too smart to be considered 
dumb. Comes complete with keyboard, control logic, 
character generator, refresh memory & interface • 
Displays two pages of text instead of one • Field protect 
mode • Factory installed selected parameters 
Reg. Price. $1 ,450 Sale! $1,195 



ADM-42. The semi- 
intelligent terminal 
that provides you with 
flexibility of format, 
security, ed iti ng, 
interface, and trans- 
mission. Two-page 
display standard 
{Optionally expand- 
able to eight) • Blank- 
ing, blinking, and 
reverse fields • Three 
ways to TAB • 16 
Function keys do the 
work of 32 • Detach- 
able keyboard. 



ADM-42 with Keyboard. Reg. Price. $1,795Sale! $1,595 

ADM-42 without keyboard. Reg. Price. $1,595 

Sale! $1,450 




300 Series Ballistic 
Printers. This application- 
oriented matrix printer is 
built to last. Features 
include: Ballistic Printing 
• Positive 180 cps • Bi- 
directional Printing • A 
character buffer that is 
optionally expandable to 
2,048 characters • 512 
character buffer standard. 



Model 310 Ballistic Printer (Serial/Parallel) 

Reg. Price. $2,045 Sale $1,< 

We Stock Lear Siegler Accessories — 
Call For Details. 





6502 Microprocessor • 20-character, alpha-numeric LED 
display • Full-size 54-key keyboard with 3 user-defined 
functions • Fast, on-board 20-column thermal printer • 8K 
Advanced Interactive Monitor program • Dual cassette 
interface board • On-board timer • On-board ROM ex- 
pansion to 12K • 4K on-board RAM • On-board TTY 
interface -16 parallel 1/0 lines * One serial 1/0 port • KIM- 
compatible edge connectors for even further memory or 
1/0 expansion. 

The CompuMart AIM System combines all of our options 
for the AIM to give you the capabilities of development 
systems costing 5 to 10 times as much. This system 
includes a 4K AIM 65 with BASIC and Assembler, an MTU 
power supply, a Sanyo tape recorder and an EG I Enclo- 
sure for the AIM. 

CompuMart AIM System $785.00 

4K AIM-65 $450.00 

Paper for the AIM $4.75 



WE'VE GOT IT! 

A Calculator, A system, A Whole 
New Standard. 

The finest calculators available for 
Science, Engineering, & Business. 




HEWLETT-PACKARD'S HP-41C 
HP-41C 

The Calculator. 

Features over 130 functions and offers up to 400 lines of j 
program memory or 63 data storage registers — I 
expandable to 319 registers or up to 2,000 lines. RPN I 
Logic. Alpha-numeric capabilities let you communicate I 
with the calculator in English. Customization features I 
allow you to totally reassign the keyboard functions. I 
Continuous memory HP-41C Calculator $288.00 | 



The System. 

Memory Modules. For storing programs or up to 2,000 I 

lines of program memory $45.00 I 

"Extra Smart" Card Reader. Records programs and data f 

back onto blank mag-cards $179.00 I 

The Printer. Upper and Lower case. High resolution f 

plotting. Portable. Thermal operation $320.00 | 

Application Modules $45.00 EACH. 

Standard pac, Statistics, Math, Financial, & Surveying. 



HP SERIES E 
CALCULATORS 
HP-31E — Scientific. 
Trigonometric, exponen- 
tial & math functions. 

$49.95 

HP-32E — Advanced 
Scientific with Statistics. 
All HP-31E functions plus 
hyperbolies and compre- 
hensive statistics. $66.95 
HP-33E — Programmable 
Scientific. A program- 
mable science, math and 
statistical calculator. 

$79.95 

Also available with con- 
tinuous memory. . . .86.40 
HP-37E — Business 
Management. Best choice 
for a business/finance 
calculator $69.95 



HP-38E — Advanced Financial with Programmability. All 
the features of the HP-37E plus a lot more power. 

$108,001 

Also available with continuous memory $144.95 

THE ALL NEW HP-34C. Advanced Continuous Memory 
Scientific Programmable with an impressive array of 
programming features $144.95| 




CompuMart STOCKS THE COMPLETE 
LINE OF MATROX PRODUCTS. 
CALL FOR SPECS. 



Based on our policy of offering our \ 
customers only the finest in micro- 
computers, CompuMart is pleased to I 
announce that we now carry the new I 
generation of Personal Computers by | 
Atari.™ 




INTRODUCTORY SPECIALS 



( 1 ) Buy additional memory for your computer, 8K or 16K, 
and we will double the amount of memory FREE! 

(A potential savings of $200.) 

(2) Buy the Atari 800 Computer and take $100 off the 
purchase price of the Atari 810 Disk Drive or the Atari 820 
printer. 



ATARI" 800 
PERSONAL COMPUTER SYSTEM 

Comes with: 

• Computer Console 

• BASIC Language Cartridge 

• Education System Master Cartridge 

• BASIC Language Programming Manual 

• 800 Operator's Manual 

• ATARI 410 Program Recorder 

• Invitation to Programming" Cassette 

• 8K RAM Memory Module "' 

• 10K ROM Operating System 

• Power Supply 

• TV Switch Box 

SPECIFICATIONS: 

High resolution color graphics 

57 key full stroke keyboard 

Built-in RF modulator for channel 2/3 operation with 

standard TV set 

Composite video output for use with monitor 

Internal Speaker 

Two cartridge slots for rapid program insertion 

Four internal slots for expansion up to 48K RAM 

6502B Microprocessor' 

High speed serial 1/0 port 

Atari 800 Computer System $995.95 

ATARI 820" PRINTER 

High resolution dot matrix impact printer 

Uses standard Va inch roll paper and ribbon 

40 characters per line 

Speed: 40 characters per second 

UL approved 

Atari 920 Printer $599.95 



ATARI* 810 DISK DRIVE 

Uses standard 5 1 A inch diskettes 

88K bytes storage per diskette 

Up to four disk drive units can operate with the system 

Average data access time: 236 milliseconds 

Power: AC adapter; UL approved 

Atari 810 Disk Drive $699.95 

Upgrade your computer with additional memory. (Note 
that the Atari 800 Computer comes with 8K of RAM 
memory and will accept up to 48K.) 

Atari 8K RAM Memory Module $1 24.95 

Atari 16K RAM Memory Module $199.95 



Phones open from 
from D&B rated 
signed purchase o 



ib.30pmtST.Mon- 



NCf?/Cnmt»iiMart IMPORTANT ORDERING INFORMATION 

■ w ^^ fcl * *^ %#■**§* wvn«f « A || orders must include 4% shipping and handling. Mass. residents 

___- 5% sales tax; Mich, residents 4%, tor sales tax. 

a-va vil- j m Phones open from 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. EST, Mon.-Fri. -P.O.'s acce 

270 Third St., from D&B rated companies -shipment contingent upon receip 

Cambfiddf* Uacc signed purchase order • All prices are subject to change without nol 

*w» #* IWM«»* Most items in stock for immediate shipment - call for delivery quota! 

02142 In the Ann Arbor area? Our retail store is open 11:00 a.m. to 7:00 

,1 lw -^-*-fc— -» jk m ■ i ■ Tues.-Fri., 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Saturdays (closed Sun. and Mon 

TO ORDER CALL: 

1 .Ann. 14 1- ** ^Od * IF MOT SATISFIED RETURN PURCHASE 

IN MASS. 0^(617? 491^2700 "™" 10 DAYS FOR A ™ LL REFUND - 



1:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.i 
sed Sun. and Mon.) 



WITHIN 10 DAYS FOR A FULL REFUND. 



Circle 209 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 263 



JADE. INFLATI 
FOR THE 80's. 



JUDGE S CHOICES 




EXPANDORAM 

Expandable to 64K Using 4116 RAMS 

Interfaces with most popular S-100 boards 

Bank selectable; PHANTOM provision 

Draws only 5 watts fully populated 

Designed to work with Z-80, 8080, and 8085 systems 

No wait states required 

16K boundaries & protect via dip switches 

Kits come with sockets for full 64K 

Invisible refresh 

MEM-16130K (16K KIT) $239.95 

MEM-16130A ( 1 6K A&T) $289.95 

MEM-32131K (32K KIT) $309.95 

MEM-32131A (32K A&T) $359.95 

MEM-48132K (48K KIT) $379.95 

MEM-48132A (48 K A&T) $429.95 

MEM-64133K (64K KIT) $449.95 

MEM-64133A (64K A&T) $499.95 

Call For Sale Prices ! 
32K STATIC RAM 

Expandable 8K/32K, 2/4MHz, KIT/ A&T 
Switchable 2 or 4 MHz 

THE JADE BIG Z 

Z-80A CPU with Serial I/O Port 

This CPU can accomodate a 2708, 2716, or 2732 
EPROM in SHADOW mode, allowing you to use a full 
64K or RAM. The M WRITE signal is generated 
automatically if you use the board without a front panel. 
There's also an independent on-board USART to control 
the RS232 serial port at baud rates from 75 to 19,200. 

We've sold thousands of these high quality S-100 
CPU boards at $159.95; but now, in a brief fit of financial 
insanity, we're offering them to you for only $135.00! 
Don't pass this one up! 

CPU-30201K (KIT) $135.00 

CPU-30201A (A&T) . $199.00 

CPU-30200B (BARE BOARD) $35.00 



S D Systems 

EXPANDORAM II 

4 MHz RAM Board Expandable to 256K 

S-100 bus compatible, up to 4 MHz operation 

Expandable memory from 16K to 256K 

Dip switch selectable boundaries 

Page-mode allows up to 8 boards on the same bus 

Invisible refresh; PHANTOM output disable 

Designed to operate in Z-80 based systems 

MEM-16631K (16K KIT) $295.95 

MEM-16631A (16K A&T) $345.95 

MEM-32632K (32K KIT) $369.95 

MEM-32632A (32K A&T) $419.95 

MEM-48632K (48K KIT) $444.95 

MEM-48632A (48K A&T) $494.95 

MEM-64632K (64K KIT) $519.95 

MEM-64632A (64K A&T) $569.95 



Solid State Music 

PB-1 

EPROM Programmer for 2708 or 2716 

MEM-99510K (KIT) $125.00 

MEM-99510A (A&T) $175.00 

JADE DOUBLE-D 

Double Density Disk Controller 

Read/ write single or double density, 8" or 5 l A" drives 

On board Z-80 insures reliable operation 

CP/M compatible in either single or double density 

Density is software selectable 

Up to 4 single or double sided, single or double density 

drives may be mixed on the same system 

EI A level serial printer interface on board-up to 9600 

baud (perfect for despooling operations) 

All the hard work of disk access is done by the on board 

Z-80A and 2K memory, leaving your host CPU free 

for its normal duties 

Uses IBM standard formats for proven reliability 

THIS BOARD REALLY WORKS!!!!!! 

IOD-1200K (DOUBLE-D KIT) $285.00 

IOD-1200A (DOUBLE-D A&T) $349.00 

1OD-1200D (MANUAL ONLY) $15.00 

Terminal Sale 
ADDS REGENT 

Our Finest Line of Terminals 

REGENT 20 $795.00 

24 lines X 80 characters, EI A and 20ma current 
loop interfaces, 1 10 to 9600 baud, 96 ASCII codes plus 
32 control codes, both upper and lower case, 8X8 
dot matrix, reverse video, auxiliary EI A serial interface, 
and addressable cursor. 

REGENT 25 $850.00 

All the features of the Regent 20 plus an 18 key 
numeric and cursor control pad. 

REGENT 40 $1195.00 

All the features of the Regent 20 plus a 14 key 
numeric pad, 8 function keys, 5 cursor control keys, 
auxiliary port control key, reverse video, underline, 
blinking, plus full, half, and zero intensities, 8X8 dot 
matrix, 1 1 special line drawing symbols, reverse scrolling, 
and send/ receive capability using the Regent 40's bi- 
directional interface. 

REGENT 60 $1495.00 

All the features of the Regent 40 plus Print Local, 
Editing, and Transmission Mode keys, business graphics, 
bar charts, histograms, and graphics, ability to insert 
or delete characters or lines, buffered mode reduces 
software needs, and can transmit data at baud rates 
other than rate received. 

Special Package Price 
RS-232 SET-S6.50 

1 Male DB-25, 1 Female DB-25, 1 Cover 

JADE DISKETTES 

Magnificent Magnetic Media™ 

5 [ A" single sided, single density, box of 10 

MMD-51 10103 (SOFT SECTOR) $29.95 

MMD-5111003 (10 SECTOR) $29.95 

MMD-5111603 (16 SECTOR) $29.95 

SVa" double sided, double density, box of 10 

MMD-5220103 (SOFT SECTOR) $39.95 

8" single sided, single density, box of 10 

MMD-8110103 (SOFT SECTOR) $34.95 

8" single sided, double density, box of 10 

MMD-8120103 (SOFT SECTOR) $55.95 

8" double sided, double density, box of 10 
MMD-8220103 (SOFT SECTOR) $57.95 



S D Systems 

VERSAFLOPPY 

Versatile Floppy Disk Controller 

IBM 3740 soft sectored format 

S-100 Z-80 or 8080 compatible 

Controls up to 4 single or double sided drives 

Compatible with all popular disk drives 

CP/M compatible 

Listings for control software included 

IOD-1150K (KIT) $239.00 

IOD-1150A (A&T) $289.00 



New Disk Operating System 

SDOS IS HERE 

SDOS is a CP/ M compatible operating system 
designed for the S.D. Sales Versafloppy I or II. It 
requires the SBC- 1 00/ Versafloppy board set and func- 
tions as a superset of CP/M, giving 19 additional 
functions including file attributes, disk label, and read/ 
write logical blocks. It provides additional protection 
features, and is expandable to a multi-user real-time 
system. 
SDOS sells for $200.00 



BELLRINGERS 




:3^^^ 



S D Systems 
SBC- 100/200 

2 or 4 MHz Single Board Computer 

S-I00 bus compatible Z-80 CPU 

IK of on-board RAM 

4 EPROM sockets accomodates 2708, 27 1 6, or 2732 

One parallel and one serial I/O port 

4-channel counter timer chip (Z-80 CTC) 

Software programmable serial baud rates 

CPC-30100K (2 MHz KIT) $249.95 

CPC-30100A (2 MHz A&T) $299.95 

CPC-30200K (4 MHz KIT) $289.95 

CPC-30200A (4 MHz A&T) $339.95 

Coming Soon 

NEW JADE P/S I/O 

Parallel Serial Interrupt Board 

Z-80 SIO, PIO, 2 CTCs, expands to 2 SIOs, 4 CTCs 
4 serial ports (async, sync, bisync, SDLC/HDLC) 
2 parallel ports with full handshake 
Software baud rate generators, interval timers, counters, 
and generates 32 vectored interrupts 
Designed especially for MP/M multi-user multi- 
tasking operating systems. For use with Z-80 only 

IOI-1045B (BARE BOARD) $55.00 

IOI-1045K (KIT) $169.95 

1O1-1045A (A&T) $224.95 

Solid State Music 

1/0-4 

2 Serial & 2 Parallel I/O Ports 

IOI-1010K ( KIT) $149.95 

IOI-1010A (A&T) $199.95 

Circle 210 on inquiry card. 



ONFIGHTE 
ROUND #1. 



S D Systems 
VERSAFLOPPY II 

Double Density Disk Controller 

Single or double density floppy disk controller 

985600 bytes on 8" double sided diskettes 

259840 bytes on double sided 5 l A" diskettes 

S-100 bus (IEEE) standard compatible 

IBM 3740 format in single density 

8" and 5Va' drives controlled simultaneously 

Operates with Z-80, 8080, and 8085 CPU's 

Controls up to 4 drives 

Vectored interrupt operation optional 

IOD-1160K (KIT) $335.95 

IOD-1169A (A&T) $385.95 



HEAVYWEIGHTS * 



ATARI 800 

Don't Miss Out on Our Special Sale Price 

At last there is a machine designed to give serious 
competition to Apple and Radio Shack. This computer 
contains many advanced technical features such as: 
built in RF modulator for use with a standard TV; 
8K of internal RAM (expandable to 48K), 8K BASIC 
language included; extremely sharp high-resolution 
color graphics; and built-in peripheral I/O ports. 
Software is available in plug-in paks and cassette 
tapes, with many programs available in the areas of 
entertainment, education, and business/ home 
management. 

Available accessories include a printer, disk drives, 
game controller paddles, and memory expansion 
cartridges. 

And JADE has the Atari 800 in stock at a special 
introductory price. 

ATARI 800 $950.00 

810 DISK DRIVE $699.95 

820 PRINTER $599.95 

16K RAM EXPANSION KIT $199.95 

CX30-04 PADDLE CONTROLLER $19.95 

CX40-04 JOYSTICK CONTROLLER $19.95 

ATARI 400 $599.95 



Vector Graphic's 

HI-RES GRAPHICS 

256X240 S-100 Hi— Res Graphics Board 

IOV-1070K (KIT) $150.00 

IOV-1070A (A&T) $199.95 

Limited to Stock on Hand 



SPST DIP SWITCHES 



m 



vvvtffff Wtf'ftftftftftftf* 



Part # Pos. Price 

SWD-103 3 $1.00 

SWD-104 4 $1.05 

SWD-105 5 $1.10 

SWD-106 6 $1.15 



SWD-107 7 $1.20 

SWD-108 8 $1.25 

SWD-109 9 $1.30 

SWD-110 10 $1.55 




Textool 
ZIP* DIP II SOCKETS 



1 1 m 1 1 



^ 



16 PIN ZIP* DIP II $5.50 

24 PIN ZIP* DIP II $7.50 

40 PIN ZIP* DIP II 10.25 

* ZERO INSERTION PRESSURE 

Circle 210 on inquiry card. 



CHAMP'S PRIZES 




RAMS 

21X02 (2 MHz) $1.25 

21L02(4MHz) $1.50 

2114L(2MHz) $5.75 

2114L(4MHz) $5.95 

41 16 (250ns)..,.. $8.95 

4116 (200ns) $9.50 

4127 (70ns) $39.95 

4164 (64K x 1) $175.00 

5257 (2 MHz) $6.75 

5257 (4 MHz) S7.25 

BAUD RATE GENERATORS 

MC14411 $10.00 

CRYSTAL $4.95 

SUPPORT DEVICES 

8212 $2.50 

8214 $4.65 

8216 $2.95 

8224 $3.25 

8226 $3.85 

8228 $4.95 

8238 $4.95 

8243 $8.00 

8250 $14.95 

8251 $6.50 

8253 $13.95 

8255 $6.50 

8257 $19.95 

8259 $17.95 

8275 $49.95 

8279 $8.95 

3881 $12.95 

3882 $12.95 

3883 $45.00 



6800 SUPPORT 

6821P $5.95 

6828P $11.95 

6834P $12.95 

6840P $18.75 

6850P $4.80 

6852P $5.79 

6875L $7.40 

68488P $25.00 

PROMS 

2708 (450ns) $8.95 

2716 (450ns) $34.95 

2716 (5v) $34.95 

2732 (5v) $95.00 

2758 (5v) $34.95 

MICROPROCESSORS 

Z-80 $10.95 

Z-80A $12.50 

6502 $11.50 

6800 $11.95 

6802 $17.95 

6809 $39.95 

8035 $24.00 

8035-8 $24.00 

8080A $6.59 

8085 $15.95 

TMS9900JL. $39.95 

UARTS 

AY5-I013A $5.25 

AY3-1014A $8.25 

TR1602B $5.25 

TMS6011 $5.95 

IM6403 $9.00 



Special Package Price 

ROCKWELL AIM-65 

The Head-Start in Microcomputers 

KIM-l compatible 
On-board printer 
Full ACSII keyboard 
AIM-65 w/lK RAM. .$375.00 
AIM-65 w/4K RAM. .$450,00 
8K BASIC ROM. .$100.00 
POWER SUPPLY. .$59.95 
CASE for AIM-65.. $49 .95 
4K Assembler/ Editor. .$80.00 

Special Package Price $599.00 

4K AIM-65, 8K BASIC ROM, Power Supply, and Case. 




JADE 

Memory Expansion Kits 
FOR 

TRS-80 APPLE EXIDY 

Everything you need to add 16K of memory to 
your computer. Your kit comes neatly packaged with 
easy to follow instructions. In just minutes your computer 
is ready to tackle more advanced software. 

$65.00 



Integral Data Systems 

THE PAPER TIGER 

132 Column Dot Matrix Printer 

Up to 198 CPS 

1.75 to 9.5 inch adjustable 

tractor. 

Parallel and serial 

interface. 

98 character ASCII set. 

80 to 132 columns. 

6 or 8 lines per inch. 

Eight software selectable 

character sizes. 

110,300,600, or 1200 baud. 

PRM-33440 $950.00 

PRM-33441 (GRAPHICS & 2K BUFFER) . $1050.00 




P/M T 2.0 

Digital Research has done it again! This new release 
of their industry standard disk operating system is 
bound to be an even bigger hit than the original version. 
All of the fundamental file-size restrictions of release 
1 have been eliminated, while maintaining full com- 
patability with the earlier versions. This new release 
can be fie Id -configured by the user for a single mini-disk 
up through a multiple drive hard-disk system with 128 
megabyte capacity. Field configuration can be ac- 
complished easily through use of the Macro Library 
(DISKDEF) provided with CP/M 2.0. 
A powerful operating system for only $150.00 

Jade's New Motherboards 

THE ISO-BUS 

6-SLOT 

BARE BOARD $24.95 

KIT $49.95 

ASSEMBLED & TESTED $59.95 

12-SLOT 

BARE BOARD $39.95 

KIT $89.95 

ASSEMBLED & TESTED $99.95 

18-SLOT 

BARE BOARD $59.95 

KIT $129.95 

ASSEMBLED & TESTED $149.95 

Special Price for 
NOVATION CAT 

Acoustic Coupler/Modem 

$157.50 




Let your computer 
talk to other computers! 
Bell Systems 103 compatible 
300 baud, answer or orginate 
IOM-5200A (SALE PRICED) 



$157.50 



PLACE ORDERS 
TOLL FREE 



Inside California 

800-262-1710 



Continental U.S. 

800-421-5500 



Write for our FREE 1980 catalog 

For customer service or technical inquiries call 

213-973-7707 
TERMS OF SALE: Cash, checks, money orders 
and credit cards accepted. Minimum order $10.00. 
California residents add 6% sales tax. Minimum 
shipping and handling charge $2.50. Prices are for 
U.S. and Canadian delivery only and are subject 
to change without notice. For export prices and 
information send for a JADE INTERNATIONAL 
CATALOG. 




COMPUTER PRODUCTS 

4901 W. Rosecrans, Hawthorne, CA 90250 



page 



DEAL#1 

Hobby Wire Wrap Starter Package 

BW2630 WWTool $19.95 

BT30 #30 Bit 3.95 

BC1 Batteries & Charger 14.95 
*Kit#1 Wire Kit 9.95 

Regular Price $48.80 

$39 96 

* Kit #1 Contains 900 pes. of precut wire 
in asst. sizes. 

Choose from Red, Blue, White, Black, 
Green, Orange, Violet, Yellow, or assort- 
ment. 




DEAL #2 

Industrial Wire Wrap Starter Package 




BW928BF WWTool $52.95 

BT30I #30 Bit & Sleeve . . 29.50 
BC1 Batteries & Charger 14.95 
'Kit #3 Wire Kit 32.95 

Regular Price ... $130.35 



$119 



95 



* Kit #2 Contains 4000 pes. of precut 
wire in asst. sizes. 

Choose from Red, Blue, White, Black, 
Green, Orange, Violet, Yellow or assort- 
ment. 



* * BIG DEAL * • 
IC Sockets by the Tube 




RN HIGH RELIABILITY 
eliminates trouble. "Sidewipe" 
contacts make 100% greater 
surface contact with the wide, 
flat sides of your IC leads for 
positive electrical connection. 




WIRE WRAP 
SOCKETS 

3-level Gold 
Closed Entry 
Design 

* Sockets sold at these 
prices by the tube only. 



Size Quantity /Tube Price ea.* Price/Tube 

08 pin 52 .39 $20.28 

14 30 .46 $13,80 

16 26 50 $13.00 

.68 $15.64 

.85 $17.85 

.42 $16.56 

24 17 .94 $15.95 

28 15 1.23 $18.45 

40 10 1.60 $16.00 

Above prices include gold up to $800/oz. 



18 


23 


20 


21 


22 


18 





SOLDER TAIL 

Low Profile Tin 
Closed Entry 
Design 



* Sockets sold at these 
prices by the tube only. 



1<P/pin 

(over 5 tubes) 

3/4<P/pin 
(over 100 tubes) 

See tube quantities above. 



ORDERING INFORMATION 

Orders under $25 include $2 handling 
All prepaid orders shipped UPS Ppd. 
Visa, MC & COD's charged shipping 
All prices good through cover date 
Most orders shipped next day. 



Limited to products Page Ditigal stocks. All discounts are off of list price. 
Call or write for list prices. 

10% off on all OK hobby products! 

10% off on all Bishop Graphics products! 

5% off on all Vector products! 



age 



135 E. Chestnut Street 5A, Monrovia, California 91016 Phone (213) 357-5005 



266 BYTE April 1980 



Circle 211 on inquiry card. 



CaI.Forn.a DiqiTAl 

Post Office Box 3097 B • Torrance, California 90503 



With Purchase of The 
INTEGRAL DATA 440 

Paper Tteer 

Your Choice, $200 Value 

1) Graphics Option Package 

2) Interface for APPLE II 
3i TRS-80 Printer Interface 

California Digital has resently 
researched the complete low 
cost printer market. It is our 
opinion that the IDS 440 Paper 
Tiger is, without doubt, the 
most versatile and offers the 
best value of any printer cost- 
ing under $1,000. 

This quality dot matrix printer 
incorporates such features as 
software selectable character size to allow print densities upto 132 
characters per line. Full forms handling capabilities and tractor 
feed mechansim adjustable to 9.5". The Paper Tiger is engineered 
to accept either parallel or RS232 serial ASCII. U0/220V.50/60Hz. 
***** $995.00 plus shi] 




lid! 



CONNECTORS 






your choice 

DB25P 

male plug & hood 

or 

DB25S female 

»325 

Qty fe. male hd. 
10 3.05 1.9S 1.15 
25 2.95 1.79 1.05 
100 2.65 1.67 95 
500 2.25 1.60 .85 
IK 1.97 1.37 .73 



lipping 



Edge 
Connectors 




GOLD 

100 PIN 

IMSAI/ALTAIR 



Imsai solder 125 x 250 
Imsai w/w.l25centers 
A Hair soldertail .140 row 
SPECIALS 
22/44 Kim eyelet. 156" 
25/50 solder tab .156" 
36/72 wide post w/w.156 



*2.95 3/1 7.S0 
♦4.95 3/113.00 
$5.95 3 $15.00 

S1.95 37*5.00 
$1.09 3/12.00 
$1.95 3/ $5.00 



Authorized Distributor 

Scotch 

Data Products 




740-0 
740/2 
741-0 
743-0 
740-32 



IBM soft format. 
Double side soft 
Double density 
D ouble/D ouble 
Hard sector 



10 Pak 
$39.00 
65. 00 
53.00 
70.00 
39.00 
39.00 



50+ | 

$3. 50 
6. 00 
I. 90 
6. 60 
3. 50 
3. 50 



S-100 Mother Board 



Quiet 




TEUTTYPEM0DE143 



4320 KEYBOARD 

TTL AAA $1050 

RS232....AAK 1150 

Friction... A AE 

103 Modem AAB 1575 




1100 shipping 



r T3hl 




Minidisk Drive for TRS-80 

your choice C^ Jfgl fPJ 

Lobo *^ 0' 

UlSta Interface Cable 1 DISKETTES 



SPECIAL 




Mr/ 



sisiim XMi 

's not offen that California Digital t 



o the distribution of consumer pro- 
ducts, but we have resently come accross 
a product that appears so unique that we just had to add it 






product 
by the B SR turriiabi e 
control any light or applianc 
e transmitted from the comn 
easy chair you ce 
iside and outside your home. 
television or any light fixtu; 
The modular system is ava 
Ultrasonic Master Coi 
Battery Operated Ultr 
Appliance Module. La 



the System X-10 manufactured 
any. This space age system will re- 
our home or office. Command sig- 
:onsole over your existing wiring, 
trol up to 16 different electrical de- 
? the System X-10 to control your 

arall&ble in the following components: 

rol Console 534. 95 

ionic Controller 19. 95 

ip Module or Wall Switch 13. 95 



APPLE (I 

I6K MEMORY 

C010R» GRAPHICS* SOUND 

$988 

PLUS SHIPPING 



NHg.Sug. 
Retail.... 

U195 



744-(0)<10)(16) 5 l/4 ,, mini 

Library case Tor any above; Add $3. 00 

8 34 A Data Cassette 5.5 

D C 100 Mini C artridge 16. 00 

DC 300 D ata Cartridge 20.00 

920( ) Disk Cartridge 39.30 



MEMORY 



TRS-80 S| 
APPLE II 

16k memory (8) 4116's 




Installation is simple. Anyone who has 
ever changed a spark plug should be able £ 
to up-grade his microcomputer. 
How can California Digital offer these 
memory up-grade sets at 25% below our competition? 
Simple, we buy in volume, wholesale to dealers and 
sell the balance directly to owners of personal micro- 
systems. These 16K dynamic memory circuits are 
factory prime and unconditionally guaranteed for one 
full year. NOW, before you change your mind, pick 
up the telephone and order your up-grade memory 
from California Digital. Add $3 for TRS80 jumpers. 



Shugart Associates 



SA800-R Floppy Disk Drive 

The most cost effective way to store data proc- 
essing information, when random recall is a 
prime factor. The SA800 is fully compatible 
with the IBM 3740 format. Write protect cir- 
cuitry, low maintenance & Shugart quality. 




$44950 



XEROX 800 

WORD PROCESSING 

KEYBOARD 

ASCII ENCODED 




This 77 key word prcnu.-ssii!i; keyboard was 
manufactured by Microswitch for use in the 
Xerox 800 word processing system. 
The keyboard outputs a seven bit ASCII 
code along with an eighth bit that allows 
most keys to shift and double function as 
special characters. Extra large " Tab & 
Return " keys are designed into the layout 
<jf the keyboard to emulate the IBM Selec- 
trtc. 17 illuminated keys serve for special 
word processing codes. The keyboard is 
equipped with ■■Au Ur.i : rib wheel switches for 
defining line width. 

Original Xerox inquisition over $400.00 
C-iUIVirnia ].ii;.:i' il l : ,Si;N i,ri^- -ill -,- .fi!'. 00 
l.ixuilli'iit crond. I'locun eriU'sUori included. 



TOUCH TONE 9 

Speaker Phone 



STATIC 

21L02 450nS. 
21L02 250nS. 
2114 1Kx4 450 
2114 lrSt4 300 
4044 4K>l1 450 

4044 4Kxl 250 

4045 1Rx4 450 
4045 1Kx4 250 
5257 low pow. 



1-31 
1. 19 
1. 49 
5. 95 
8. 95 
5.95 
9.95 
8. 95 
9.95 
5. 95 



32-99 100-5C -999 



1. 39 
5. 50 
8.50 
5.50 
9.50 
8.50 
9.50 
5.50 



.95 
1. 25 
5. 25 
8.00 
5. 25 
9.00 
8. 00 
9.00 
5.00 



.90 



1K+ 
. 85 



4.75 4.50 



4. 80 4. 60 




The Voicecaster simply plugs 
into your existing phone wall 
jack. The twelve button pad 
creates standard Touch Tone 
frequencies. Unique electronic 
circuitryeliminat.es that hollow 
sound that you have heard on 
other systems. 
Original retail price $295. 
Please consult your local tele- 
phone company to determine if 
a line protection device is re- 
quired in your community. 
Dial units also available. 



SPECIAL CIRCUITS 



Z80A 4 MHz. 

8080A CPU 

8085 

8086 Intel 16 bits 

TMS9900 16 bits 



24. 95 
9. 95 
22. 50 
85. 00 
49. 95 



AY5-1013A UART 4.95 
Floppy Disc Controllers 
WD 1771 single D. 39. 95 
WD 1781 Double D 65. 00 
WD 1791 D/D3740 * 



E PROMS 1-15 16-63 64+ 

1702A 2K 4.95 4.50 4.00 

2708 8K 9.95 9.50 9.00 

27165vl6K 29.95 27.50 * 

2716 T I 24.88 20.00 * 

2532 85. 00 * * 



II r * 1 

■"Tv^^M [master ctiarye] 



ACOUSTIC 

MODEM 



The Omnitec model 701 Modem connects 
the HS-232 serial port of your computer 
or peripheral device acoustically to your 
telephone Line. 

Place the telephones handset into cradle 
of the modem, instantly your computer 
system has access to the world of dig- 
ital information. 
Half and full duplex ability. 




^■ftw/v/l 



Miniature / 
Switches A 



m 



$.98 



your choice 

50 100 Ik 



$.88 .81 .73 .66 | 
SPOT Miniature Toggles 

7101C&K ON NONE ON 

7107 jbt ON OFF(mnt.ON) I 

7108 CK 0N<moment ON) 
7103 CK ON OFF ON 
Rotary 3P~4-Pos. 
Rotary 3P-6-Pos. 
PushBlN.O.) $.39ea.4/ll 



DIP Switch 






,- uL-.h . !i.:h .'.ni-< , 




*1? 9 




DISCOUNT 



Wire UifQpXentef 



PORTABLE DATA ENTRY SYSTEM 



These used data terminals were originally designed for chain store inventory con- 
trol and order entry systems. The operator enters the inventory control number, 

— ■..to- .jiidii;,! Mii l::,nr< :.;n; •! .hi- [:;■'.■> Ai-.'-r ■.:. ! i .. ri 1;': s .i- :,.,,! ■ !;,. :; ■(.:- , ■titer ed into 
the recorder, the main wareh(x,si- la telephoned, the handset is placed in the acoustic 
coupler and all the recorded information is transmitted hack to the master computer. 
With a little imagination and one of these portable entry systems, you should be able 
to exchange programs and computer information with associates across the country. 
All units were removed from service in working condition. Original cost $2,500. 
Each system comes complete with: 

•Portable Cassette Drive Unit "Five Gould "D" NiCads >DB25 Cable 

■Removable Entry Keyboard "Acoustical Coupler .Shoulder starp 

■'-''■ ; I '•■" !.'l~|n'i.v 'Battery Charger 'Full Documentation 



IC SOCKETS 




wire wrap 
ea. 25 50 


low profile 
•a. 25 50 


8 




17 16 15 




14 


37^36 35 


18 17 16 


16 


38 37 36 


19 18 17 


24 


99 93 85 


36 35 34 


40 


169 155 139 


63 60 58 



$29.95 j 
B W 630 



.98 500 1,000 11,000 

(9. $15. $105. 



(213)679-9001 



212 on inquiry card. 



HEX ENCODED KEYBOARD 

Four onboard LEDs indi- 
cate the HEX code gen- 
erated for each key 
depression. The board 
requires a single +5 
volt supply. Board only 
$15.00 Part No. HEX-3, 
with parts $49.95 Part 
No. HEX- 3A. 44 pin 
edge connector £4.00 
Part No. 44P. 




T.V. 
TYPEWRITER 




• Stand alone TVT 

• 32 char/line, 16 
lines, modifications for 
64 char/line included 

• Parallel ASCII (TTL) 
input • Video output 

• 1 K on board memory 

• Output for computer 
controlled curser • 
Auto scroll • Non- 
destructive curser • 
Curser inputs: up, down, 
left, right, home, EOL, 
EOS • Scroll up, down 

• Requires +5 volts 
at 1.5 amps, and -12 
volts at 30 mA • All 
7400, TTL chips • 
Char. gen. 2513 • 
Upper case only • 
Board only $39.00 
Part No. 106, with 
parts $145.00 Part 
No. 106A 



44 BUS MOTHER 
BOARD 




Has provisions for ten 
44 pin (.156] connec- 
tors, spaced 3/4 of an 
inch apart. Pin 20 is 
connected to X, and 
22 is connected to Z 
for power and ground. 
All the other pins are 
connected in parallel. 
This board also has 
provisions for bypass 
capacitors. Board 
cost $15.00 Part No. 
102. Connectors 

$3.00 each Part No. 
44 WP. 



UART& 
BAUD RATE 
GENERATOR 




• Converts serial to 
parallel and parallel to 
serial • Low cost on 
board baud rate gener- 
ator • Baud rates: 
110, 150, 300, 600, 
1200, and 2400 • 
Low power drain +5 
volts and -12 volts 
required • TTL com- 
patible • All characters 
contain a start bit, 5 
to 8 data bits, 1 or 2 
stop bits, and either 
odd or even parity. • All 
connections go to a 44 
pin gold plated edge 
connector • Board only 
$12.00 Part No. 101, 
with parts $35.00 Part 
No. 101 A, 44 pin edge 
connector $4.00 Part 
No. 44P 



RS-232/20mA 
INTERFACE 




This board has two 
passive, opto-isola- 
ted circuits. One con- 
verts RS-232 to 
20mA, the other con- 
verts 20mA to RS- 
232. All connections 
go to a 10 pin edge 
connector. Requires 
+12 and -12 volts. 
Board only $9.95, 
part no. 7901, with 
parts $14.95 Part 
No. 7901A. 



ASCII TO CORRESPONDENCE 
CODE CONVERTER 

This bidirectional board is a direct replace- 
ment for the board inside the Trendata 1000 
terminal. The on board connector provides 
RS-232 serial in and out. Sold only as an 
assembled and tested unit for $249.95. 
Part No. TA1000C 



ASCII KEYBOARD 

53 Keys popular ASR-33 format • Rugged 
G-10 P. C. Board • Tri-mode MOS encoding 
• Two-Key Rollover • MOS/DTL/TTL Compat- 
ible • Upper Case lockout • Data and Strobe 
inversion option • Three User Definable 
Keys • Low contact bounce • Selectable Par- 
ity • Custom Keycaps • George Risk Model 
753. Requires +5, -12 volts. $59.95 Kit. 



ASCII KEYBOARD 

TTL & DTL compatible • Full 67 key array 

• Full 128 character ASCII output • Positive 
logic with outputs resting low ■ Data Strobe 

• Five user-definable spare keys • Standard 
22 pin dual card edge connector • Requires 
+5VDC, 325 mA. Assembled & Tested. 
Cherry Pro Part No. P70-05AB. $119.95. 






It 



.. . 



COMPRINT 
PRINTER 





Printing Characteristics: 225 characters/ 
second [170 lines/ minute) throughput • 9 
horizontal x 12 vertical matrix • 96 ASCII 
character set with upper and true lower case • 
80 characters/line • 5,8 lines/inch 
Buffer Memory: standard 256 bytes; • 
optional; 2,048 bytes [buffer memory option 
designated as Model 91 2-2K), add $1 49.95. 
Paper Requirements: electrosensitive type 
(aluminum coated) • 8-1/2 inch width • 3.7 
inch max. (300 ft.) roll diameter. 
Model 912-S Interfacing: serial interface 
RS232 and 20 mA current loop • BAUD rates 
1 1 0, 1 50, 300, 600, 1 200, 2400 and 4800 
are strap selectable. 

Model 91 2-P Interfacing: parallel interface, 
IEEE^I88 and 8 bit parallel [strobe/ acknow- 
ledge). Model 912-S, Part No. CPIA, 32118, 
$579.95. Model 91 2-P, Part No. CPIA, 321 1 7, 
$559.95. 



T.V. INTERFACE 




• Converts video to 
AM modulated RF, 
Channels 2 or 3. So 
powerful almost no 
tuning is required. On 
board regulated power 
supply makes this ex- 
tremely stable. Rated 
very highly in Doctor 
Dobbs' Journal. Recom- 
mended by Apple • 
Power required is 1 2 
volts AC C.T., or +5 
volts DC • Board only 
$7.60 part No. 107, 
with parts $1 3.50 Part 
No. 1 07A 



SOROCIQ120 




Upper/lower case dis- 
play • Numeric keypad 
& cursor keys • Pro- 
tected fields, Vs inten- 
sity display • RS 232 
interface S. aux. port. 
IQ120-$799.95 • 
IQ140 Detachable key- 
board— $1199.95 



R3-32/TTL 
INTERFACE 



• Converts TTL to RS- 
232, and converts RS- 
232 to TTL • Two se- 
parate circuits • Re- 
quires -12 and +12 
volts • All connections 
go to a 1 pin edge 
connector, kit $9.95 Part 
No. 232A10Pinedge con- 
nector $3.00 part No. 
10P. 



TAPE 
INTERFACE 




• Converts a low cost 
tape recorder to a 
digital recorder • Works 
up to 1200baud«Dig- 
ital in and out are TTL- 
serial • Output of 
board connects to mic. 
in of recorder • Ear- 
phone of recorder con- 
nects to input on board 

• No coils • Requires 
+5 volts, low power 
drain • Board only 
$7.60 Part No. 111, 
with parts $29. 95Part 
No. 111A 



MODEM 




• Type 1 03 • Full or half 
duplex • Works up to 
300 baud • Originate 
or Answer • Serial TTL 
input and output • con- 
nect 8 n speaker and 
crystal mic. directly to 
board • Requires +5 
volts* Board only $7.60 
Part No. 1 09, with parts 
$29.95 Part No. 109A. 



COMPUCOLORII 




With reg. keyboard 
MOD3 8K $1595.95 
MOD4 16K $1695.95 
MOD532K$1995.95 
Now includes $250 
more, worth of soft- 
ware and accessories 
with 101 key option add 
$134.95 with 117 key 
option add $179.95 



DC POWER SUPPLY 



• Board supplies a regulated +5 
volts at 3 amps., +1 2, -1 2, and -5 
volts at 1 amp. • Power required is 
8 volts AC at 3 amps., and 24 volts 
AC C.T. at 1.5 amps. • Board only 
$12.50 Part No. 6085, with parts 
excluding transformers $42.50 
Part No. 6085A 




Tfl OrflAr ■ Mention part no. description, and price. In USA shipping paid by us for orders accompanied by check or money order. 

IU V/IUCI . We accept c.O.D. orders in the U. S. only, or a VISA or Master Charge no., expiration date, signature, phone no., 
M shipping charges will be added. CA residents add 6.5% for tax. Outside USA add 10% for air mail postage and han- 
^m dling. Payment must be in U. S. dollars. Dealer inquiries invited. 24 hour order line [408) 448-0800 



Send for FREE Catalog ... a big self-addre%sed envelope with 41* postage gets it fastest! 



ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS De P l B p ° Box 21638 - San Jose * CA USA 95151 



268 BYTE April 1980 



Circle 213 on inquiry card. 



r TRS-80 
SERIAL I/O 

• Can input into basic 

• Can use LLIST and 
LPRINT to output, or 
output continuously • 
RS-232 compatible • 
Can be used with or 
without the expansion 
bus • On board switch 
selectable baud rates 
of 110,150,300,600, 
1 200, 2400, parity or 
no parity odd or even, 
5 to 8 data bits, and 1 
or 2 stop bits. D.T.R. 
line • Requires +5, 
-12 VDC ©Board only 
$1 9.95 Part No. 8010. 
with parts $59.95 Part 
No. 801 OA, assembled 
$79.95 Part No. 8010 
C, No connectors pro- 
vided, see below. 




EIA/RS-232 con- 
nector Part No 
0B25P $6.00, with 
9'. B conductor 
cable $10.95 Part 
No DB25P9 



3' nbbon cable 
with attached con- 
nectors to fit TRS- 
80 and our serial 
board $19.95 Part 
No 3CAB40. 



COMPUCRUISE 




$1 29.95; with cruise con- 
trol $169.95 



THETELESIS 

VAR-80 

INTERFACE 

UNIT 



mJ 



f 8 



For the TRS-80 with 
Level II Basic • Provides 
8 outputs • Provides 8 
inputs • 2 ft. of inter- 
connecting cable w/con- 
nector • Plugs directly 
into TRS-80 • Power 
supply provided • As- 
sembled and tested. 
Part No. VARBO, Intro- 
ductory price $109.95. 



GAME RADDLES 
& SOUND 




Includes: 2 game pad- 
dles, interface, soft- 
ware, speaker, power 
supply, full documen- 
tation including: sche- 
matics, theory of 
operation, and user 
guide; plus 2 games on 
cassette EPong and 
Starship War). $79.95 
Complete Part No. 
7922C 



DIGICOM DATA 
PRODUCTS INC. 

Series 31 2 
Acoustic Coupler 

G$ 

300 BAUD Originate, 
Part No. AC3122, 
$219.95. 300 BAUD 
Answer, Part No. 
AC3122, £219.95, 
300 BAUD Answer/Or- 
iginate, Part No. AC31 23, 
$229.95. 



LIGHT-PEN 
ForYourTRS-80 




YourTRS-80 Light-Pen 
is a carefully engineered 
instrument and with the 
proper care will give 
satisfactory use and 
many years of service. 
Part No. TRS80LP 
$24.95. 



SYSTEM 

EXPANSION 

from 

LNW Research 

• Serial RS232C/20 
mA I/O • Floppy con- 
troller • 32K bytes 
memory • Parallel print- 
er port • Dual cassette 
port • Real-time clock 

• Screen printer bus • 
Onboard power supply 

• Software compatible 

• Solder mask, silk 
screen. PC board and 
user manual, Part No. 
LNWSO, $69.95. 



DISKETTES 




\fert>atim 



Box of 10, 5" $29.95, 
8 M $39.95. 
Plastic box, holds 10 
diskettes, 5" - $4.50, 
8" -$6.50. 



16K RAMS 

For the Apple, 
TRS-80 or Pet $8 
each Part No. 41 16/ 
2117. 



LEEDEX 
MONITOR 



CI 



12" Black and White* 
12 MHz Bandwidth 
• Handsome Plastic 
Case -$139.00 




AN S-1 00 bus Adapter— Motherboard for the 
TRS-80. Kit, Part No. HUH81 DLXK, $295.95. 
Assembeled, Part No. HUH81 DLX A, $375.95. 



NOW! 

A FULL SUPPORT SYSTEM 

FOR TRS-80 




• 32K of RAM • EPROM firmware • Disk 
control • Data acquisition • Parallel I/O • 
Serial I/O • Plug into GPA's Motherboard. 
GPA's quality design includes • 6-44 pin edge 
connectors • +5V, -5V. +12V, -12V external 
power supply required • Active termination. 
The Motherboard, Part No, GPA80, is only 
$149.95. 

TAKE ADVANTAGE OF 

GPA-EXPANSION CARDS 

FOR THE GPA80 

Memory cards: Now with Fortran compilers 
available for your TRS-80, additional expansion 
memory is a must! Card with sockets only, Part 
No. GPA801 ,$1 1 9.95. Card with 1 6K of 41 1 6 
Dynamic Ram, Part No. GPA802, $224.95. 
Card with 32K of 41 1 6 Dynamic Ram, Part No. 
GPA803, $329.95. All cards come equipped 
with sockets to accomodate 32K of Ram. 
EPROM firmware card. Put those valuable 
subroutines in firmware. Don't waste time 
loading and unloading tapes and disks. For 2708 
or 271 6 EPROMS. Part No. GPA806, $79.95. 
Serial I/O card. Here's what you've been 
asking for, a full serial terminal interface, with 
RS-232C or 20 mA. Current loop. Input/output 
capabilities. Part No. GPA807, $79.95. 
Parallel I/O Card. Control functions in the 
outside world, monitor and store real time 
events. Two parallel output ports. Dip switches 
select ports (0-254). Part No. GPA808, 
$79.95. 



FLOPPY DISK 
STORAGE BINDER 




Three-ring binder 
comes with ten trans- 
parent plastic sleeves 
which accommodate 
either twenty, five-inch 
or ten, eight-inch 
floppy disks. Binder & 
10 holders $14.95 Part 
No. 8800; Extra holders 
951 each. Part No, 800. 



DIGITAL 
CASSETTE 




5 min. each side. Box 
of 10 $9.95. Part No. 

C-5. 



DISK JACKET 7 




Holds two 5-1/4 inch 
diskettes and will fit 
any standard three ring 
binder. $9.95/10 Pack. 



TRENDCOM 
PRINTER 

US 

• 40 characters per 
second • 4-7/1 6 inch 
wide thermal paper • 
Graphics (TRENDCOM 
100]: 480 sevendot 
print postions per line. 
TRENDCOM 100, Part 
No.TRC0100.$495.95. 
TRENDCOM 200, Part 
No.TRC0200,$375.95. 
Interface for TRS-80, 
Part No. T80 A $45.95. 
For Apple II, Part No. 
TRCAII, $75.95. For 
PET, NO. TRCP2, 
$79.95. ForScoccerer, 
TRCSR1 $45.95. 



SARGON: A Computer 
Chess Program 

Features the complete program that won the 
1978 West Coast Computer Faire Tourna- 
ment. Part No. 00603 — TRS-80 Level II; 
Part No. 00604 — Apple II C24K). $19.95 



SOUND EFFECTS AND MUSIC 
FOR YOUR COMPUTER 




SOUNDWARE is a complete system. It includes 
a speaker/amplifier unit with volume control, 
earphone jack, and connectors. It boasts 
excellent tone quality yet is small and convenient 
to use. Add batteries, plug it in, and play. One 
year warranty. SOUNDWARE package (in- 
cludes INTRO to SOUNDWARE programs) 
PET (8K), Part No. 20003, $29.95. TRS-80 
Level II (16K), Part No. 20002, $29.95. 
Compucolor II (8K), Part No. 20001, $39.95. 
INTRO to SOUNDWARE programs only PET 
and TRS-80, Part No. 20005, $1 4.95. Compu- 
color II Part No. 20006, $1 9.95. 



TX Qrrjgr ■ Mention part no. description, and price. In USA shipping paid by us for orders accompanied by check or money order. 
v \j v ; . y^ accept C.O.D. orders in the U. S. only, or a VISA or Master Charge no., expiration date, signature, phone no., 
shipping charges will be added, CA residents add 6.5% for tax. Outside USA add 10% for air mail postage and han- 
dling. Payment must be in U. S. dollars. Dealer inquiries invited. 24 hour order line (4083 448-0800 



addressed envelope with 41* postage gets it fastest 



ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS De P tB P ° Box 21638, San Jose. CAUSA 95151 



Circle 213 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 269 



Circle 214 on inquiry card. 




FREE! 



Axiom EX-801 PET Printer (with graphics) $ 

Axiom EX-820 PET Plotter $ 

Anderson Jacobson 841 Selectric ... $1 

Leedex Video 100 12" Monitor $ 

Heath WH 1 9 Terminal (factory asm.) ... $ 
Heath WH 14 Printer (factory asm.) ... $ 
IEEE-RS 232 Printer Adaptorfor PET * . . $ 



Up to $170 in merchandise with purchase 
of one of following PET-CBM items ! ! ! 



BETS) PET to S-1 00 Interface $ 11 9.00 

PET Connectors-Parallel or IEEE $ 1 .95 

Cassette Port $ 1 45 

475.00 Hands on Basic with a PET $ 10.15 

749.00 Programming the 6502 (Zaks) $ 9.45 

01 5.00 6502 Applications Book (Zaks) $ 1 0.45 

1 19.00 6500 Manuals (MOS Technology) .... $ 6.50 

770.00 Programming a Microcomputer: 6502 . $ 8.45 
735.00 6502 Assembly Language 

88.00 (Osborne) NEW! $ 9.90 



PET SPECIALS *FREE 

PET 1 6N 1 6K full size graphics keyboard $ 995 $1 30 
PET 16B 16K full size business keyboard $ 995 $130 
PET 32N 32K full size graphics keyboard $1 295 $1 70 
PET 32B 32K full size business keyboard $1 295 $1 70 
PET 8N 8K full size graphics keyboard $ 795 $100 
PET 2040 DUAL DISK DRIVE-343,000 bytes $1 295 $1 70 
PET 2022 Tractor Feed Printer $ 795 $100 

PET 2023 Pressure Feed Printer $ 695 $ 70 

PET C2N External Cassette Deck $ 95 $ 12 

Used 8K PETs (limited quantities) $ 495 

a EDUCATIONAL DISCOUNTS ^ 
^ Buy 2 PET Computers, get 1 FREE m 
*Free Merchandise with Purchase of PET-CBM Item. 



KIM-1 $159 (add $30 for power supply) SYM-1 $209 

BAS-1 Microsoft ROM Basic for SYM $ 85 

Memory Plus (KIM, SYM, AIM) $195 

SYM Assembler in ROM $ 85 

SEA-1 6 New 1 6K Static RAM $325 

Seawell Motherboard - 4K RAM Space ... $139 

KTM-2/80 Synertek Video Board $349 

S-100 16K Static RAM Kit SALE $219 

TIS PET Workbooks - set of 6 $ 21 .50 

Dust Cover for PET $ 8.90 



All Book and Software Prices are Discounted 

PETPersonalComputerGuide(Osborne) .... $ 12.75 
PET and the IEEE-488 Bus (Osborne).... $ 12.75 
6502 Software Cookbook (Scelbi) $ 9.45 

Cassettes (all tapes guaranteed) AGFA PE61 1 
Premium quality, high out put lownoise in 5 screw 
housing with labels: 
C-10 10/5.65 50/25.00 100/48.00 
C-30 10/6.90 50/30.00 100/57.00 



ATARI -INTRODUCTORY SPECIAL 

ATARI 400. Atari 800 and all Atari Modules 20% OFF. 



Programmers Toolkit - PET ROM Utilities . $ 44.90 

Sargon II (TRS-80 or Apple) NEW! $ 24.90 

MicrochessforPET(Peter Jennings) $ 17.90 

Visible Music Monitor (4 Voice) for PET... $ 29.90 

KL-4M 4 Voice Music Board (PET) $ 34.90 

CmC Word Processor (8K $25) (16K $34) 
Adventures by Scott Adams 1 5% Off 




SALE 



(write for quantity prices) 

I Scotch 8" Disks ... 1 0/S31 .00 

' Scotch 5 1 /4" Disks . 10/S31.50 

Verbatim $W Disks 1 0/$26.50 

Diskette Storage Pages 10/$ 3.95 

Disk Library Cases 8" - $2.95 5" - $2.15 

BASF 5 1 /4" Disks 1 0/$28.00 

BASF 8" Disks 1 0/$29.00 



271 6 EPROM (5 volt) $ 29.00 

6550 RAM (for 8K PET) $ 1 2.70 

6502 $9.75 6522 $9.00 6520 $5.50 
2 1 1 4 L 450 ns $5.35 24@ $4.95 1 00 @ $4.45 




MINIMAX 

by COMPU/THINK 



MINIMAX I (.8 
MINIMAX II (2.4 



sks) $4495 
Disks) $5995 



115 E. Stump Road 
Montgomeryville, PA 18936 



(215)699-8386 
699-5826 



A B Computers 



SPECIAL— MINIMAX prices include Compu/ 
Think PAG EM ATE Database and Report Writer at no charge. 

The most advanced complete microcomputer system available. 

Includes CPU, 1 2" CRT, Full Keyboard, 2 Quad-Density Disk 
Drives, 2 Megahertz 6502 Hybrid Processor (double speed), 1 08 
K System Memory, High Resolution (512 x 240) Graphics, 
Programmable Character Fonts, Microsoft Extended BASIC, 
DOS with Random Access I/O, Full Complement of I/O Ports, 
Monitor with Debug, Trace, and Tiny Assembler, Fifth (PL/M and 
Forth combination) Interpreter, Complete editing and entry with 
split screen capability, 64 Microprogrammable Opcodes, Bus- 
iness software (with Database) available. 



WRITE FOR COMPLETE CATALOG 

Add $1 .00 per order for shipping. 

We pay balance of UPS surface charges on all p 



WAMECO 



THE COMPLETE PC BOARD HOUSE 
EVERYTHING FOR THE S-100 BUSS 

INTRODUCTORY SPECIAL 
IOB-1 SERIAL/PARALLEL INTERFACE BOARD 

* TWO PARALLEL DATA PORTS PROGRAMMABLE USING AN 8255 WITH SEPARATE 
HANDSHAKING. 

* ONE SERIAL PORT USING AN 8251 WITH PROVISIONS FOR PARITY, STOP BIT AND 
CHARACTER LENGTH. BAUD RATES 110 TO 9600 BAUD. OUTPUTS RS232, TTL 
AND CURRENT LOOP. 

* KANSAS CITY STANDARD CASSETTE INTERFACE, 300 BAUD FOR USE WITH THE 
SERIAL INTERFACE. 

* STATUS MAY BE POLLING SOFTWARE OR VECTURED INTERRUPTS. 

PCBD $31.95 

KIT TO BE ANNOUNCED LATER. 

FUTURE PRODUCTS: 80 CHARACTER VIDEO BOARD. 
Z-80 CPU BOARD WITH RAM, ROM AND PROGRAMMABLE VECTOR INTERRUPTS. 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED, UNIVERSITY DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE 

AT YOUR LOCAL DEALER 

MOST PRODUCTS FOR IMMEDIATE SHIPMENT. NO 4-8 WEEK DELAYS REQUIRED FOR OTHERS. 



ST-— •"" 



ptfONH 



wmc 



inc. 



WAMECO, INC., P.O. BOX 877 • 455 PLAZA ALHAMBRA • EL GRANADA, CA 94018 • (415) 726-6378 



270 BYTE April 1980 



Circle 215 on inquiry card. 



S Radio Hut Radio Hut Radio Hut Radio Hut 




Radio Hut 

201 L0CHW00D MALL • DALLAS, TEXAS 75218 

ORDER BY PHONE— 214-324-5509 



PLEASE WRITE FOR CATALOG 

PRICES SUBJECT TO CHANGE 

WITHOUT NOTICE 



ORDERING INFORMATION & TERMS: Orders under $1 5.00 
add 75c handling. No C.O.D. We accept Visa, MasterCharge, 
and American Express cards. Tex. Res. add 5% tax. Foreign 
orders (except Canada) add 20% P&H. 90 Day Money Back 
Guarantee on all items. Add 5% P&H, maximum $5.00. 
ORDER BY PHONE — (214) 324-5509 



I The EXPANDORAM is available in versions 
| from 16K up to 64K, so for a minimum invest- 
Iment you can have a memory system that will 
[grow with your needs. This is a dynamic mem- 
lory with the invisible on-board refresh, and IT 
1 WORKS! 
I • Bank Selectable 
I • Phantom 

I • Power 8VDC, + 1 6VDC, 5 Watts 
I • Lowest Cost Per Bit 
[• Uses Major Brand 16K RAMS 
I » PC Board is doubled solder masked and has 

silk-screened parts layout 
!• Extensive documentation clearly written 



SD EXPANDORAM 




• Complete kit includes all Sockets for 64K 

• Memory access time: 375ns, Cycle time: 
500ns. 

• No wait states required 

• 16K boundaries and Protection, via Dip | 
Switches 

• Designed to work with 2-80, 8080, 8085 1 
CPU ? s s 

EXPANDORAM 64K Kit (16K Ram) 

16K $239.95 

32K 309.95 

48K 379.95 

64K 449.95 



SD'S PROM 100 PROM Programmer Board 

I The PROM-100 Programmer is a development tool for 
I S-100 Bus computer systems. The Zero Insertion 
I Force Programming Socket extends above the card 
I cage height for easy access to PROM devices. Soft- 
Iware verifies PROM erasure, verifies program loading 
land provides for reading of object file from Disk or 
[PROM and programming into PROM/EPROM. Fea- 
tures include: On-board generated 25vdc Program- 
Iming pulse, TTL compatible, maximum programming 
Itime for 16,389 bits is 100 seconds. Programs: 2708, 
lintel 2758, 2716, 2732 and Tl 2516. DIP Selectable 
I EPROM type. 
1 PROM- 1 00 Board Kit $1 49.95 




SD'SVDB-8024 
VIDEO DISPLAY 
BOARD 

The VDB-8024 features 
its own on-board Z80 
I microprocessor. This gives the capability of using soft- 
I ware (included in ROM) to control functions and en- 
I hancements without interference with the computer's 
CPU. Included in the special features: 80 characters 
I by 24 lines display, keyboard power and interface, 
I composite and separate video output, 2K on-board 
I RAM, a total of 256 available characters, full cursor 
I control, forward and reverse scrolling, underlining, 
l field reverse, field protect enhancements, program- 
| mable characters. kit $329.95 A&T $389.95 



TARBELL FLOPPY DISK INTERFACE 

| Compatible with Z80 & 8080. S-100 Bus. Uses 
CPM operating system. Plugs directly into your 
I MSA I or ALTAI R • Fastest transfer rate 
KIT $1 90.00 Assembled & Tested $260.00 



TARBELL CASSETTE INTERFACE 

I Plugs directly into your IMSAI or ALTAI R • 
Fastest transfer rate • Extremely reliable • 
I Phase encoded • 4 extra status & control lines 
KIT $99.95 



Z80 STARTER KIT 
Kit: $279.95 Assembled & Tested $349.95 

I SD System s Z80 Starter Kit enables the novice to build a 

I complete microcomputer on a single board. Featuring the 

I powerful Z80 microproces- 

I sor, the Z80 Starter Kit fea- 

I tures • Keyboard and Dis- 

I play • Audio Interface • 

I PROM Programmer • Ex- 

I pansion and Wire Wrap 

I Area • On Board RAM • 4 

I Channel Counter/Timer • 

Z-BUG Monitor in PROM • 

I/O Ports. 




SD'S SBC-200 
SINGLE BOARD COMPUTER 



Kit $289.95 



S-100 Bus compatible and based on the powerful Z60 micro- 
processor, the SBC-200 meets the needs of a Z-80 CPU board 
with many additional features. Ideal for Industrial and control 
applications. All of the same features that have made the 
SBC- 100 famous, PLUS 4MHz OPERATION. • S-100 Bus 
Compatible • Z80 Central Processing Unit • 1 024 Bytes of 
Random Access Memory • 8K Bytes of PROM using 2716 • 
Serial Input/Output Port (with Asynchronous and Synchronous 
Operation) • Parallel Input and Output Ports • Four Channel 
Counter/Timer (Z80-CTC) • Software Programmable Baud 
Rate Generator • No-Front Panel Required for Operation • 4 
MHz Operation. 



SD'S 

"VERSAFLOPPY I" 

KIT 

FEATURES: IBM 3740 soft sectored 
compatible, S-100 BNS Compatible for Z-80 
or 8080. Controls up to 4 drives (single or 
double sided). Directly controls the following 
drives: Sugart SA400/450 Mini Floppy • Shu- 
gart SA800/850 Standard Floppy • PERSCI 
70 and 277 • MFE 700/750 • CDC 9404/9406 

$189.95 



CB2 Z-80 CPU 
Board Kit $186.00 

Operates at 2 MHZ or 4 MHZ 
by DIP switch selection and 
includes two sockets for 2716 
or 2732 EPROMs or TMS 
4016 2K RAMs. Jumper 
options generate the new 
IEEE S-100 signals. 




NOVATION CAT 
ACOUSTIC 

COUPLER/MODEM 
$189.00 

Let your computer communi- 
cate with other computers. Bell 
Systems 103 compatible 300 
baud, answer or originate. 



VB3 80 Character 

Video Board Kit 

$299.95 

• 80 char, per line, up to 51 
lines • Graphics up to 160 x 
204 matrix • Up to 256 user 
defined symbols (optional 
EPROM) • Composite video 



SYM-1 

Reg. $269.00 
NOW $219.00 

• KIM-1 Compatible 

• 4K ROM Monitor 

< 1 KBytes 21 14 RAM 

• 65K Memory 

Expansion 

> User EPROM 271 6 



SD'S VERSAFLOPPY II 

• IBM 3740 Compatible Soft Sectored Format for Single Den- 
sity Drives • Operates with Single and Dual Sided Drives. 
Single or Double Density Drives and 5' & 8" Drives — in any 
combination of four simultaneously • Drive Select and Side 
Select Circuitry • S-100 Bus Compatible • Vectored Interrupt I 
Operation Optional • Phase Locked Loop Data Recovery Cir- 
cuit • Operates with Z80 CPU's • Uses FD1 791-1 Controller 
Chip • Ther Versafloppy II incorporates all the possible fea- 
tures of a flexible disk drive controller into one board Capable I 
of handling four drives simultaneously, combinations of any 
variety are possible, such as 5" single sided, 8 dual density 
dual sided, 5 dual density single sided. Most popular drives I 
are controlled directly with the Versafloppy II. The operating 
system for the Versafloppy II is the extremely powerful SDOS 
available for SD Systems. Diagnostic and control software 
available to complete your disk system. 
KITS335.95 




SD'S SBC-100 
SINGLE BOARD 
COMPUTER 

The SBC- 100 provides a I 
complete micro-computer 
on a single board! The Z80 microprocessor is used as the heart 
of the SBC- 1 00. The SBC- 1 00 meets all the requirements of a | 
Z80 CPU board with the added features of I/O ports, counter/ 
timer channels, on board RAM, provisions for PROM/ROM I 
and a software programmable baud rate generator. S-1 00 Bus 
compatible, the SBC-100 features are: 8K bytes of available 
PROM, 1024 bytes on-board RAM, Serial I/O with both syn- 
chronous and asynchronous operation, Parallel I/O ports, 
Operational Vectored Interrupts, and Four Counter/Timer I 
Channels. SD Monitor available for RS-232 and Video Ter- 
minals. Disk based system software also available. 
SBC-100 KIT $249.95 



PB1 2708/2716 Programmer & 4K/8K 
EPROMBoard Kit SJF/77 $124.00 | 

• S-100 bus • 2 separate programming sockets for 2708 or 
2716 (5V) EPROMs • Programming voltage generated on 
board — no need for an external power supply • Software 
control of 2708/2716 programming selection • LED indicator | 
for programming mode and an on-off switch for programming 
voltage • 4 sockets for 4K of 2708 or 8K of 271 6 EPROMs • 
Unused EPROM sockets do not enable data bus drive so the 
board is never committed to the full 4K or 8K of memory • 
Jumper selectable wait states (0-4) for fast or slow EPROMS 



104 2 Parallel/2 Serial I/O Board Kit $126.00 

• S-100 bus • 2 serial I/O ports (2 in & 2 out) • Independent f 
baud-rate selection from 55 to 9600 baud • Regulated +5V, 
-»-12V & -12V outputs provided on both serial headers • 2 I 
latched parallel I/O ports (2 in & 2 out) • Independent DIP 
switches for setting address • Interrupt capability provided for 
on serial and parallel I/O ports • + 8V @ 0.95A, - 16V @ 0.6A. 
& - 1 6V @ 80mA typical ~—gff 



VB1 B VIDEO BOARD KIT $1 24.00 | 

• S-100 bus • 64 or 32 characters per line (DIP switch select- 
able), 16 lines • Graphics 128x48 matrix • Uppercase, lower I 
case, Greek characters, symbols and numbers • 7x9 dot 
character matrix • Black-on-white or white -on -black • Timing j 
60Hz vertical rate, 16.2KHz horizontal rate. Crystal 12.44MHz | 

• Parallel and composite video output (US TV signals), sep- 
arate video, horizontal and vertical sync ssjit 



!• S-100 Bus Compatible 
p Up to 4Mhz Operation 

► Expandable Memory from 16Kto256K 

* DIP Switch Selectable Boundaries 

» Uses 1 6K (41 1 6) or 64K (41 64) Memory 

Devices 
» Page Mode Operation Allows up to 8 Memory 

Boards on Bus 

► Operates with Z80 CPU's 

• Phantom Output Disable 

► Invisible Refresh (Synchronized with Wait 
States) 



SD'S EXPANDORAM II 



SD Systems' ExpandoRAM II is a dynamic RAM| 



The Randem Access Memory ^ with ca P a - cities from 16K b ^ es < 41 16 > t0 




256K bytes (4164). It operates on the industry! 
S-100 Bus. The design allows 8 boards to op-[ 
erate from the same S-100 Bus. The Expando-| 
RAM II is compatible with most S-100 CPU's| 
based on the Z80 microprocessor. 
EXPANDORAM II KIT 

16K ..$295.95 

32K 369.95 

48K 444.95 

64K 519.95 



Circle 216 on inquiry card. 



X Radio Hut Radio Hut Radio Hut Radio Hut tf 



Circle 217 on inquiry card. 




BUILD YOUR OWN LOW COST 
MICRO-COMPUTER 

POWER SUPPLIES 

FOR S-100 BUS, FLOPPY DISCS, ETC. 




POWER TRANSFORMERS (with mounting brackets) 



ITEM 
NO. 



USED IN 
KIT NO. 



PRI. WINDING 
TAPS 



SECONDARY WINDING OUTPUTS 
2x8 Vac 2x14 Vac 2x24 Vac 



SIZE 
W x D x 



H 



UNIT 
PRICE 



T1 
T 4 



OV, 110V, 120V 
0V, 110V, 120V 
0V, 110 V, 120V 
0V, 110V, 120V 



2x7.5A 

2X12.5A 

2x9A 

2x4A 



2x2.5A 
2x3.5A 
2x2.5A 



2x2.5A 
2x3A 



3%"x3%"x3V8" 
3 3 /4"x4 3 / 8 "x3V 8 " 
3 3 /4"x4 3 /8"x3V8" 

3 3 /4"x3 5 /8"x3 1 /8" 



21.95 
27.95 
29.95 
21.95 



POWER SUPPLY KITS (open frame with base plate, 3 hrs. assy, time) 

ITEM USED FOR @+8Vdc @-8Vdc @+l6Vdc @-16Vdc @+28Vdc 



SIZE WxDxH UNIT PRICE 



KIT1 15 CARDS SOURCE 15A 

KIT 2 SYSTEM SOURCE 25A 

KIT 3 DISC SYSTEM 15A 

KIT 4 DISC SOURCE 8A 



1A 

1A 



2.5A 
3A 
2A 



2.5A 
3A 
2A 



4A 
5A 



12"x6"x4 7 /s" 
12"x6"x47/a" 
14"x6"x4 7 /e" 
10"x6"x4%" 



51.95 
58.95 
66.95 
49.95 



EACH KIT INCLUDES: TRANSFORMER, CAPACITORS, RESIS., BRIDGE RECTIFIERS, FUSE & HOLDER, TERMINAL BLOCK, BASE 
PLATE, MOUNTING PARTS AND INSTRUCTIONS. 

DISC DRIVE POWER SUPPLY "R3" assy. & tested, open frame, size: 9" (W) x 5" (D) x 5" (H) 64.95 

SPECS: + 5V @ 5A REGULATED, -5V @ 1 A REG., +24V @ 5A REG., SHORTS PROTECT. 

IDEAL FOR 2 SHUGART 801/851 OR SIEMANS FDD 100-8/200-8 DISK DRIVES & ROCKWELL AIM-65. 

SH lppi NG for EACH TRANSFORMER: $4.75. FOR EACH POWER SUPPLY: $5.00 IN CALIF. $7.00 IN OTHER STATES. CALIF. RESIDENTS ADD 6% SALES TAX. OEM WELCOME. 



MAILORDER: 

P.O. BOX 4296 

TORRANCE, C A 90510 



SUNNY INTERNATIONAL 

(TRANSFORMERS MANUFACTURER) 

Telephone: (213) 633-8327 



STORE: 

7245 E. ALONDRA BLVD. 

PARAMOUNT, CA 90723 

STORE HOURS: 9 AM-6 PM 



Function 
Generator 

KIT 



* 19 95 



8080A 



PROCESSOR 



$C95 



PET 2001 

Professional Computers 
TRY THIS ONE! 

16K Bytes • Large Keyboard 
• Separate Numerics Pad 

• Graphics 
PET 2Q01-16N $995.00 



EPROM 



5 Volt 
2716 



$ 



29 



90 



WS> JUST WRAP " 

WIRE WRAPPING TOOL KIT 



i. white : red. yellow wire 



• JUST WRAP Tool 
JWK-6 



'24 95 



SYM-1 

• KIM 1 Compatible • 4KR0M 
Monitor • 1 K Bytes 21 14 RAM 

• 65K Memory Expansion • User 
2716 EPROM $239.00 



Test Clips 

14-Pin Clip.... $ 4.50 
16-Pin Clip.... $ 4.75 
24-Pin Clip.... $10.00 
40-Pin Clip.... $21.00 



ATARI bar 

yfl ^^k ^^^ Includes; Computer Console Basic Language Cartridge. 

/I llll Power Supply, TV MorJulatiir and all Operator 

^Jjm" %M \M and Prop/ramming Manuals $600.00 

, Includes: Computer Console. Bnsic Language Cartridge 

^^M #\^k Education System Master Cartridge. Cassette Recorder. 

J^Lm ■ HI B TV Modulator. BK Memory (expandable to 48K). Power 

^UP ^m ^dF Supply end all Operation Manuals $999.00 

SD Systems KITS 

27001 ExpandonAM Kit - Expandable RAM Board Kit (No RAMi| $220 

27002 VersaMoppy Flexible Disk Drive Controller Kit 250 

27003 SBC 100 Single Board Computer Kit 295 

27004 Z80 Sterter Kit 340 

27007 ExpandePROM Kit 175 

27010 Add-on RAM (16K Devices) 4116 (250nsec)[pai:kafle of eight devices 165 

270 1 1 VDB-S024 Video Display Bond Kit 370 

27012 ExpandoRAM II Expandebte RAM Board Kit (16K RAM) 460 

270 1 3 Vers all nppv 1 1 Flexible Disk Drive Controller Kit 350 

27014 PROM 100 PROM Programmer Board Kit 200 

27015 MPB-100 Z80 Central Processing Unit Board Kit 250 

27017 Add-on RAM (16K devils} 4116 (ZOOnsec) 250 

27018 SBC 200 Single Board Computer Kit 320 

27024 ExpandoHAM II Expandable RAM Board Kit (No RAMs) 230 

SD Systems ASSEMBLED 

38001 tjtpandoRAM (1EK ol onboard RAM) $ 480 

38002 Expnn.tr.RAM (32K el onboard RAM) 620 

38003 EipanrfoRAM (4BK of onboard RAM) 760 

38004 EipandoRAM (64K of onboard RAM) 900 

38005 Varsallappy Fleiafale Disk Drive Controller 335 

38006 SBC- 1 00 Single Board Computer 350 

38007 ZB0 Starter System 450 

38010 ExpandoPROM 245 

3801 1 Coble for B" Disk Drives . 80 

38013 VOB-8024 Video Display Board 470 

38016 Cable. 6ft . 26 Pin Edge Connector (one and) 50 

38017 CebleforSO-10fl/SD-200 Interlace to Texas Instruments BIO Primer. . . 80 

38018 Cable, same as above (Internal! 120 

38019 Cable. s.m« « above (External) 80 

38020 EipandoRAM II (1 6K Population) 610 

38021 ExpandoHAM II (3ZK Population) 840 

38022 ExpandoHAM II (4BK Population) 1070 

38023 EipandoflAM II (64K Population) 1300 

38024 Veriatloppy II Double Density flexible Disk Drive Controller 430 

38025 PROM 100 PROM; Progremmer 265 

38026 MPB-100 ZBO Microprocessor Board 325 

38028 SBC-200 Single Board Computer 400 

The Instructor 50 

Desktop Computer 

from SIGMETICS 

Complete, Ready -To- Use 
Microprocessor Learning Package 

Includes everything you need to 
SQCrxoo ^•••aB 1 write, run and debug machine- 

^^■■aw ™ei™«l '-Tguage programs. Housed in one 
mpact package. 




HICKOK 



W Tk£ ^2,f%Q KX-33B Micro Computer 



DIGITAL MULTIMETER 



Compact 

Accurate 

Dependabl< 



$7J.95 



\ NONLINEAR 
SYSTEMS 

Portable 
Mini-Scopes 

ms-15 $349 

MS-215 $465 

MS-230 $598 



Light Emitting Diode 

ED95 



Red-Orange 
and Green 



Color mixing q 
possible due 

to separate an- $ " 

ode terminals. • 



Flasher LED 



Red LED and 
Flasher IC Chip 
in One Package 



92* 



12 Segment 
LED Array 



Excellent for use in level indi- 
cation circuits. 

GL-112R3 All Red $/f8 

GL-112M2 Green/Red 



*4 8 



LED Driver 

Designed to illuminate 12 seg- 
ment LED Arrays according to 
an input con- 
trol voltage. $ M 80 
IR-2406 4 



Easy -to-use 4-bit microcomputer intended 
to teach basic concepts of 
computer technology. Op- $ «*) **> O^O 
erates on 110VAC, 60Hz. 



5 229° 



* 15% * 

DISCOUNT 
COUPON 

Bring this COUaWMI into one of ourstores or 

mail to oyr Mail Order address shown below and 

receive a I .TO DISCOUNT 

on purchases from this Ad of $100.00 or more. 

Otter i: \ VI IIES on April :tO. 1 0110 



Send check or Money Order to: P.O. Box 220BV, Culver City CA 90230. 

California residents add 6% sales tax. Minimum Order; $10.00. 
Add $1.00 to cover postage and handling. Master Charge and Visa welcomed. 
Please include your charge card number. 
Interbank number and expiration date. PHONE ORDERS: (213) 641-4064 



MAIL ORDER 

PO. Box 2208R 

Culver Crry.CA 90230 

|'213( 64! 4064 



TUCSON 

4518 £. Broadwa' 

Tucson, AZS571' 

(6021 881-2348 



PORTLAND 

125 ME. 82nd Ave. 

'ortland, OR 97220 

(503) 254-5541 



HOUSTON 

2649 Richmond 

Houston, TX 77098 

(713) 529-3469 



SANTA ANA 

1300 E. Edinger Ave 

Santa Ana. CA 92 705 

(714) 547-8424 



ATLANTA 

3330 Piedmont Rd. N.E 

Atlanta. GA 30305 

|404| 281-7100 



CULVER CITY 

1080 Jefferson Blvd. 

:ylver City, CA 90230 

(213) 390-3595 



SUNNYVALE 

054 E. El Camino Rea 

Sunnyvale, CA 94087 

(409) 243-4121 



272 BYTE April 1980 



Circle 218 on inquiry card. 





Formerly the CPU Shop 

Disk Drives for TRS-80* 16 K Memory Upgrade Kits 



CCI- 100™ 40 Track 

CCI-200™ 77 Track 

CCI-800™8"Drive 

(Model II) 



Reg. Our 

$399 $345 

$675 $549 

$895 $795 



Add $2.50 for jumpers and 
programming instructions 



Regular Price 

$79 



Our Price 
$62 



TRS-80* Systems 



Reg. Our 
TRS-80* 16K Level II w/keypad $849 $749 
TRS-80* Expansion Interface $299 $279 
Cat Modem — Originate and 

answer. Same as Radio Shack 

Telephone Interface II $199" $189 

SAVE EVEN MORE— CALL FOR COMPLETE SYSTEM PRICES 




Operating Systems for TRS-80* 

35 Track 40 Track 77 Track 

Reg. Our Reg. Our Reg. Our 

NEWDOSbyApparatf $ 49 $ 44 $ 55 

NEWDOSPlus $ 99 $ 79 $110 



Our 
$ 50 
$ 89 

Reg. 
$150 
$250 



$150 $100 
Our 
$145 
$170 
$ 25 
$ 8.95 



Printers for TRS-80* 




NEC Spinwriter - letter quality high 
speed printerwith 

TRS-80* interface Reg. Price Our Price 

software $2745 $2479 

with Tractor $2979 $2679 

779 Centronics Tractor Feed $1598 $ 995 

730 Centronics Friction and Pin $ 995 $ 899 

PI Centronics Printer $ 499 $ 379 

Paper Tiger (IP440) with graphics option $ 1 1 95 $ 1 1 55 
TI-810 Upper and lower case, parallel and 

serial, paper tray, and TRS-80* 

Interface software. $2065 $ 1 829 

MPI Inflation Fighter $ 795 $ 749 

Sanders 12/7 Typographic Printer $3994 $3899 



CP/M for TRS-80* Model I, Zenith 

TRS-80* Model II, ALTOS 
Manual only 

ComputerCity™ Patchpak # 4 by Percom Data $ 9.95 
Patches and enhances TRSDOS for 40 track and 77 track drives. 
DiskettesSVa" Box of 10 Call for quantity discounts $ 26.49 

Business Software {£ TRS-80* by CSA 

MODEL I MODEL II 

Reg. Our Reg. Our 

$125 $97 $225 $199 

$125 $97 $225 $199 

$125 $97 $225 $199 

$125 $97 $225 $199 

$129 $97 $225 $199 



General Ledger 
Accounts Payable 
Accounts Receivable 
Inventory 

Mailing List Name and Address 
Complete Computer 
Checkout Program 
Spooler by CSA- 
Prints while doing data entry 



$ 29 $26 

$ 29.95 $ 24.95 



r £Mirtt (Heath) WH89 



tcippkz computer 



$1195 



Call for Special Accessory Prices 

High Technology Mail List (Apple) $40 $35 

IAI rOVl 280 based, dual 8" single-sided double 



The all-in-one computer. Floppy Reg. 
disk storage. Smart video ter- $2595 
minal. Two Z80 microprocessors. 
Complete with 1 6K 
RAM expandable to 48K. 

CClTM-189 Add-on drives for 

WH89 $ 495 



Call for 
price 



Call for 
price 




32KSystem 
64K System 



density floppies. 



Reg. 

$4500 

$4960 



Call for 
price 



Prices in this ad are for prepaid orders. Slightly higher prices prevail for other- 
than-prepaid orders, i.e., C.O.D., credit cards, etc. 

Freight collect, F.O.B. 

Charlestown 

ComputerCity 



MATTEL iNtElUViSiON 

Call for Special Introductory Prices 
ATARP400AND800 



Callfor 
Prices 



TO ORDER CALL TOLL FREE 1-800-343-6522 

175 Main Street, Dept. B-4 Charlestown MA 02129 TWX: 710-348-1796 Massachusetts Residents call 6 17/242-3350 

Hours 10AM-6PM (EST) Mon.-Fri. (Sat. till 5) • For detailed information, call 617/242/3350 

Massachusetts Residents add 5% Sales Tax • TM CCI- 100, - 1 89, -200& -800 a re ComputerCity, Inc. trademarks. TRS-80* isa trademark of the Radio Shack 

Division of Tandy Corporation f Requires Radio Shack TRSDOS* Prices subject to change without notice. Franchise and Dealer Inquiries Invited 

Retail Store / Charlestown, MA • Framingham, MA • Hanover, MA • Burlington, MA 
Locations / Manchester, NH • Providence, RI 



Circle 219 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 273 



Circle 220 on inquiry card. 




























BECKIAN ENTERPRISES 








ALL PRIME QUALITY - NEW PARTS ONLY 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. 












EDGE CARD CONNECTORS: 


GOLD PLATED: 












Abbreviations: S/E Solder Eye . S/E Sold Tail: W/W Wire Wrap. 




PART n DESCRIPTION. Row So. 


19pc. 


1Q-24pcs. 25pcs. Up. 


.156" CONTACT CENTER CONNECTORS. 








D' TYPE SUBMINIATURE CONNECTORS. 




BRAND: TEXAS INST. 






PART n DESCRIPTION. 


Row Sp. 


19pc. 


10-24pcs. 25pcs. Up. 




fllUUTITV 




4070 
4090 


501100 ImsaifCrom. .250 
50/100 Imsai W/W .250 


I3.95ea. 
4.30ea. 


!3.55oa. »3.15«a. 
3.85ea. 3.45ea. 


15105 
15110 


6/12 S/E PET/NSC 
6/12 S/T PET/NSC 


.140 
.140 


11.80 
1.85 


11.65 11.45 
1.65 1.50 


PART NUMBER DESCRIPTION. 1-9pcs. ?0 24pcs.' 


25-99pcs. 


BRAND: SULLINS: U.L Rog. 






15137 


6/12 S/T PET/NSC 


.200 


1.80 


1.54 1.45 


DE 


9P Male 11.60m. I1.40ea. 


$1.30ea. 


129865 


50/100 Solder Eye .140 


6.80ea. 


6.1 Oea. 5.45ea. 


15175 


6/- S/E Sgle Row 




1.70 


1.50 1.30 


DE 


9S Female 2.25ea. 2.00aa. 


IJOea. 


129670 


50/100 S/T Imsai .250 


4.50ea. 


4.1 Oaa. 3.70 


15270 


10/20 S/E 


.140 


2.15 


1.95 1.70 


DE 


110963-1 2 pc. Grey Hood. 1.50ea. 1.35m. 


1.20BB. 


129875 


50/100 WfW Imsai .250 


5.25 


4.75 4.20 


15275 


10/20 S/T 


.140 


2.00 


1.85 1.60 








129885 


50/100 S/T Altair .140 


4.95 


4.45 3.95 


15435 


12/24 S/E PET 


.140 


2.60 


2.35 2.10 


DA 


15P Male 2.35ee. 2.15ea. 


2.00ea. 


129990 


50/100 SIT Cromom. .250 


4.75 


4.25 3.80 


15440 


12/24 S/T PET 


.140 


2.65 


2.40 2.15 


DA 


15S Female 3.25ea. 3.1 Oea. 


2.90ea. 










15445 


12/24 S/T PET 


.200 


2.75 


2.50 2.20 


DA 


51211-1 1. pc. Grey Hood 1.40ea. 1.20ea. 


1.1 Sea. 


OTHER . 


125" CONTACT CTR CONNECTORS 






15505 


15/30 S/E GRI Key 


.140 


2.50 


2.25 2.00 


DA 


51226-1 2 pc. Black Hood 2.50m. 2.25ea. 


2.00ea. 


12305 


22(44 S/E No Ears .140 


' 4.15 


3.75 3.35 


15510 


15/30 S/T GRI Key 


.140 


2.40 


2.15 2.95 


DA 


110963-2 2 pc. Grey Hood IJOea. 1.35ea. 


1.30ea. 


12759 


36/72 S/T .140 


5.40 


4.65 4.35 


15515 


15/30 WfW GRI Key .200 


2.60 


2.35 2.10 


OB 


25P Mate 2.B0oa. 2.60ea. 


2.40aa. 


12790 40/80 WW .250 
.100" CONTACT CTR CONNECTORS: 


6.30 


5.65 5.00 


15600 
15610 
15615 


18/36 S/E 
18/36 S/T 

18/36 W/W 


.140 
.140 
.200 


3.35 
3.00 
3.60 


3.05 2.70 
2.70 2.40 
3.20 2.90 


DB 
DB 
DB 


25S Female 3.60ea. 3.40ea. 
51212 1 1 pc. Grey Hood 1.50ea. 1.30ea. 
51226-1 2 pc. Black Hood IJOea. 1.65ea. 
110963 3 2 pc. Grey Hood 1.75ea. 1.50ea. 


3.20ea. 

1.1 Oea. 
1.45ea. 


10048 


13/26 S/E No Ears .140 


3.40 


3.05 2.15 


15700 


22/44 S/E KIMfVEC 


; .140 


2.96 


2.90 2.75 


DB 


1.35ea. 


10280 


25/50 S/E TRS 80 .140 


4.50 


4.05 3.60 


15705 


22/44 S/T KIMfVEC .140 


3.98 


3.30 3.00 






10175 


20/40 S/E TRS 80 .140 


5.85 


5.35 4.75 


15710 


22/44 WfW KIMfVEC .200 


3.49 


3.20 2.85 


DC 


37P Male 4.20ea. 4.00m. 


3.70ea. 


10180 


20(40 W/W TRS 80 .200 


3.30 


3.00 2.15 


15875 


25/50 S/E 


.140 


4.65 


4.20 3.75 


DC 


37S Female 6.00ea. 5.7 Sea. 


5.50ea. 


10190 


20(40 S/T TRS 80 .140 


3.20 


2.90 2.55 


15880 


25(50 S/T 


.140 


4.55 


4.1Q 3.65 


DC 


110963-4 2 pc. Grey Hood 2.25ea. 2.00ea. 


1.7oea. 


10485 


36/72 S/E Vector .140 


5.50 


4.90 4.40 


15885 


25/50 W/W 


.200 


4.85 


4.35 3.90 








10490 


36/72 W/E Vector .200 


5.80 


5.25 4.65 


16115 


36/72 SfE 


.140 


6.50 


5.85 5.20 


DD 


SOP Male 5.50ea. 5.1 Oea. 


4.7 5ea. 


10500 


36/72 S/T Vector .140 


5.70 


4.20 4.80 


16120 


36/72 S/T 


.140 


8.55 


5.90 5.25 


DD 


50S Female 9.40aa. 8.80ea. 


8.0088. 


10535 


40/80 S/E PET .140 


5.85 


5.35 4.75 


16125 


36/72 WfW 


.200 


6.75 


6.10 5.40 


DD 


51216-1 1 pc. Grey Hood 2.40ea. 2.2 Oea, 


2. OOea. 


10540 


40/80 W/W PET .200 


6.00 


5.40 4.80 


16145 


36/72 S/T 


.200 


6.50 


5.85 5.20 


DD 


110963 5 2 pc. Grey Hood 2.60m. 2.40ea. 


2.1 Oea. 


10550 


40/80 S/T PET .140 


5.80 


5.25 4.65 


16235 


43/86 S/T Mot 6800 .140 


6.60 


5.95 5.30 


D 


20418-2 Hardware Sat .90ea. .80ea. 


.70m. 


10585 


43/86 S/E COS/ELF .140 


8.95 


6.25 5.55 


16240 


43(86 W/W Mot 6800 .200 


7.80 


7.05 6.25 




(1 Hood Set) 




10605 


43/86 S/T COS/ELF .140 


6.60 


5.95 5.30 


16280 


43(86 S/T Mot 6BO0 .200 


6.50 


5.85 5.20 






10595 


43/86 W/W COS/ELF .200 


6.90 


6.20 5.95 


16725 


43(86 S/E Mot 6800 .140 


7.20 


8.50 5.75 








10615 


43/86 S/T COS/ELF .200 


6.80 


6.10 5.40 






















I.C. SOCKETS GOLD 












COOLING FANS. 




TERMS: MINIMUM ORDER: $15.00 ADD $1 


.35 For 






WfWRAP 3 TURN 




I.C 


. SOCKETS TIN. 




Extra Quiet. 




Handling & Shipping. Orders over $30.00 in the U.S.A. 






14 pin 
16 pin 


10.40 ea. 


14 pin 




10. 15 ea. 


1 to 4 




IIB.OOea. 




We Pay the Shipping. CALIF. RESIDENTS: Please Add 






0.44 ea! 


16 pin 




0.17 ea. 


5 to 9 




17.00 ea. 




6% Sales Tax. 




























NOTE: NO C.O.D. OR CREDIT CARD ORDERS Vvil 






B060A PRIM! 




















ACCEPTED. 

BECKIAN ENTERPR 








$6.00 ea. 






CONNECTORS F 


3R CENTRONICS 700 SERIES. 








IES 












EIA 8 CONDUCTOR CABlco an. Lang. 
CLASS #1 Type Cables. 


Am 
1 to 4 pes. 


phenol 57-30360 

19.00 es. 




MAIL ORDERS TO: 


P.O. BOX #3089 








1 . to 4 pes. 
5 to 9 dcs 


123.00 
20..00 




{ 5 to 9 pes. 




7.00 ea. 








SIMI VALLEY, CA 93063 



M :! : VAVM :J hi it 55 i :M J I W? 



19511 Business Center Dr. Dept.B4 Northridge, Ca. 91324 r&\ 

CALL TOLL FREE: IN CALIF: LOCAL & OUTSIDE USA BfB 

(800) 423-5387 USA (800)382-3651 (213)886-9200 -» 



TRS-80/APPLE/EXIDY 

16K Memory 
Add-on Kit 

Everything needed to up-grade your 
TRS-80, Etc. An additional 16K in- 
cludes illustrated instructions, 
RAMS and pre-programmed 
jumpers. No special tools required. 

w4 °' $88.00 

CAT. NO. DESCRIPTION 

1156 TRS-80 Keyboard Unit 

1156-A TRS-80 Exp. Interface 

Prior to 4/1/79 
1156-B TRS-80 E*p. Interface 

After 4/1/79 
1156-C Eor Apple II 

1156-D For Enidy Sorcerer 



TRS-80 ED6E 
CONNECTOR & 
CABLE 

• 40 pin (2x20) 

• 36" of ribbon cable attached 
Standard connector and cable set 
plugs into rear of main unit or ex- 
pansion interface. Factory pre- 
assembled. GO OOam 
Cat. No. 2037 50.006Q 
Wt. 8 oz. T 

2for$16.QO 



[LEEDEX 

I Video 100-80 

The model 80 features an in- 
dustrial grade metal cabinet with 
built-in disk mounting capability 
and space for an 11"x14" PC board 
for custom designed electronics. 

The solid state circuitry assures a 
sharp, stable, and trouble-free pic- 
ture. The front panel controls in- 
clude power, contrast, horizontal 
hold, vertical hold, and brightness. 
Adjustments for size, video level, 
and width are located on the rear 
panel. 

Rugged metal cabinet with disk 
space. CI OO 

[ Cat No. 2374 ylTT 



CORNELL DUBILIER 

POWER LINE 
FILTER 

Removes transients, RFI and glit- 
ches from AC power lines. 
Specifically for general purpose I 
filtering provides effective RFI 
elimination. High current rating 
(10AMPS). Perfect for home com- 
puters, Etc. 110/220 VAC, 50, 60 Hz. 
Includes 15 Ft. 16 Gauge Cord. 
Cat. No. 2279 
. Wt. 2.5 lbs. 



$9.95 



TRS-80 EDGE CONNECTOR 

• 40 Contacts (2x20) • 7 " Spacing 
For expansion or main unit 



Cat: No. 


Description 


Weight 


Price 


1980 


TRS-80 Edge Connector 


2 oz. 


$4.75 


2147 


40 Cond. Cable 3 ft. length 


4 oz. 


$6.00 


2147 


40 Cond. Cable 10 ft. length 


12 oz. 


$16.00 


2147 


40 Cond. Cable 25 ft. length 


30 oz. 


$30.00 j 



fr V ANTENNA 
SWITCHER 

Select between two antennas, or 
computer and antenna. Includes 
one 75 ohm input and one 300 ohm 
terminal input. Output is standard 
300 ohm flat antenna cable, at- 
taches directly to T V terminals. Wt. 
6 oz. Cat. No. 1976 

$1.50 3for$4QOJ 



Electronics 

Books from 

HOBBYWORLD 



r HOW TO GET 
STARTED WITH 
CP/M $7.95 

Having trouble understanding 
CP/M? Book will get you into essen- 
tials in a few easy steps. Most 
popular operating system explained 
in simple terms, glossary, list of 
hardware manufacturers supporting 
CP/M and list of CP/M Software. 
^Cat No. d-91 8398-32-0 [200 pages) 

fpASCA^mnTYLT 

| A guide written for PASCAL users 
i to help write more accurate, error- 
free programs, guidelines that stress 
program organization and "logical 
thinking", detailed set of standards. 
Samples of PASCAL programs are 
among the most readable seen 
anywhere. Special chapter shows 
how to use top-down approach with 
PASCAL. CJL Aft 

^Cat No. H5124 yV.TJ 



rSEND FOR FREE FLYER ] 
FEATURING: 

Our new line of Computerized Toys 
and Games, Computers and Ac- 
cessories, Disk Drives, Printers, In- 
tegrated Circuits, LED's Semi Con- 
ductors, Connectors plus more and 
more. Select from Hundreds of 
Items at Terrific Prices! Circle our 
Reader Service Number or Phone/ 

i Write for your Free Illustrated Flyer 

fcjoday! 

r5>?M!>UAL AND SINGLI? 

DISK DRIVE 
I ENCLOSURES 

as low as $25 I 

| • Fits most standard disk crWves.J 
Shugart, MPI, Pertec and more !\ 

I Dual drive enclosure constructed of 
hi-impact plastic, one piece molded 
construction, charcoal-grey finish. 
Single drive enclosure constructed 
of rugged beige-finish steel, two 
piece construction. 
Cat No. Description Wt Price 

2055 Dual Enclosure 2 lbs $59 

^2245 Single Enclosure 3 lbs $25 

HOW TO ORDER 

Pay by check, Masfercharge, 
Visa, or COD. Charge orders 
please include expiration date, 
foreign pay in U.S. funds. Order 
by phone or mail, or at our retail. 
MINIMUM ORDER $10. please 
include phone number and mag- 
azine/issue you are ordering 
from. Prices valid thru last day of 
cover date. SHIPPING: USA: 
add $2.00 for the first 2 lbs. For 



The nation's most popular com- 
puterized toys and games are now 
available direct from Hobby- 
World* Electronics. Name Brand 
Products include: Atari Home 
Video Game Center, T.I. Speak and 
Spell, Hand Held Baseball, Football, 
Fidelity's "Chess Challenger" and 
many others. 



ground add J5<r for addf 1 lb. Fo 
air add 75C for addt'l lb. FOR- 
EIGN: surface: add $3.00 for first 
2 lbs, bOC per addf 1 lb. Air: add 
$11.00 for first 2 lbs, $5 for each 
addf I lb. CODs $1 addf I. Guar- 
anteed satisfaction for 120 days 
or your money back! Not re- 
sponsible for typographical 
errors. Some items subject to 
prior sale. We reserve the right 
to limit quantities. 



TRS-80 is a registered trademark of the Tandy Company. 



274 BYTE April 1980 



Circle 221 on inquiry card. 



DIGITAL RESEARCH COMPUTERS 

(214) 494-1505 



16K EPROM CARD-S 100 BUSS 



MJUU JMAJU F5935 



<III»H 



KIT 



FIRST TIME OFFERED! 
BLANK PC BOARD - $28 

USES 2708's! 



^nnwiwiHwitun 

Thousands of personal and business systems around the world 
use this board with complete satisfaction. Puts 16K of software 
on lineat ALL TIMES! Kit features a top qualify soldermasked and 
silk-screened PC board and first run parts and sockets. Any 
number of EPROM locations may be disabled to avoid any 
memory conflicts. Fully buffered and has WAIT STATE 
capabilities. 



OUR 450 NS 2708 S 
ARE $8.95 EA. WITH 
PURCHASE QF KIT 



ASSEMBLED 

AND FULLY TESTED 

ADD $30 



8K LOW POWER RAM KIT-S 100 BUSS 

SALE pBVC e 




$ 1 1 9 5 k° 



21L02 
(450 NS RAMS!) 

Thousands of computer systems rely on this rugged, work horse. 
RAM board. Designed for error-free, NO HASSLE, systems use. 

Blank PC Board w/Documentation 

$29.95 

Low Profile Socket Set 13.50 



ASSEMBLED AND FULLY 
BURNED IN ADD $35 



ALL ASSEMBLED BOARDS 
ARE TESTED AT 4MHZ. 



Support IC's (TTL & Regulators) 

$9.75 
Bypass CAP'S (Disc & Tantalums) 

$4.50 



16K STATIC RAM KIT-S 100 BUSS 



PRICE CUT! 



$249 



KIT 




,$111 II XI III II I II i 

'*lrr»"rrrrr; : , f k HL5 



16K STATIC RAM SS-50 BUSS 



PRICE CUT! 



i 






KIT FEATURES: 

1. Addressable as four separate 4K Blocks. 

2. ON BOARD BANK SELECT circuitry. (Cro- 
memco Standard'). Allows up to 51 2K on line! 

3. Uses 2114 (450NS) 4K Static Rams. 

4 ON BOARD SELECTABLE WAIT STATES. 

5 Double sided PC Board, with solder mask and 
silk screened layout. Gold plated contact fingers 

6 All address and data lines fully buffered. 

7. Kit includes ALL parts and sockets. 

8. PHANTOM is jumpered to PIN 67. 

9. LOW POWER: under 1.5 amps TYPICAL from 
the +8 Volt Buss. 

10 Blank PC Board can be populated as any 
multiple of 4K. 




FULLY STATIC 

AT DYNAMIC 

PRICES 



BLANK PC BOARD W/DATA-$33 
LOW PROFILE SOCKET SET-$12 

SUPPORT IC'S & CAPS-$19.95 
ASSEMBLED & TESTED-ADD $30 



FOR SWTPC 
6800 BUSS! 



OUR #1 SELLING 
RAM BOARD! 



ASSEMBLED AND 
TESTED - $35 



KIT FEATURES: 

1- Addressable on 16K Boundaries 

2 Uses 2114 Static Ram 

3 Runs at Full Speed 

4 Double sided PC Board Solder mask 
and silk screened layout Gold fingers 

5. AH Parts and Sockets included 

6. Low Power: Under 1.5 Amps Typical 



BLANK PC BOARD— $26 COMPLETE SOCKET SET- 
SUPPORT IC'S AND CAPS— $19.S5 



$12 



M t \N* STEREO! A^, 

S-100 SOUND COMPUTER BOARD 



I Perfect for 
OEM's | 



S-100 Z80 CPU CARD 



COMPLETE KIT! 

$3495 

(WITH DATA MANUAL) 



BLANK PC 

BOARD W/DATA 

$31 



At last, an S-100 Board that unleashes the full power ot two 
unbelievableGeneral Instruments AY3-8910NMOS computer 
sound IC's. Allows you under total computer control to 
generate an infinite number of special sound effects for 
games or any other program. Sounds can be called in BASIC, 
ASSEMBLY LANGUAGE, etc. 
KIT FEATURES: 

* TWO Gl SOUND COMPUTER IC'S 

* FOUR PARALLEL I/O PORTS ON BOARD 

* USES ON BOARD AUDIO AMPS OR YOUR STEREO. 

* ON BOARD PROTO TYPING AREA. 

* ALL SOCKETS. PARTS AND HARDWARE ARE INCLUDED 

* PC BOARD IS SOLDERMASKED, SILK SCREENED, WITH GOLD CONTACTS 

* EASY, QUICK, AND FUN TO BUILD. WITH FULL INSTRUCTIONS. 

* USES PROGRAMMED I/O FOR MAXIMUM SYSTEM FLEXIBILITY. 

Both Basis and Assembly Language Programming examples are included, 

SOFTWARE: 
SCL Interpreter coming soon! Our new Sound Command Language interpreter along 
with the Register Examine/Modify (REM) routines and Sound Effects Library (SEL) will 
be available soon in EPROM. SCL makes sound effects programming generally easier 
and quicker than that written in Basic or Assembly Language. An SCL users group will 
be formed, and the best new SCL programs submitted will be added to the Sound 
Effects Library in EPROM 



$169 



95 



WIRED! 
NOT A KIT! 



4 MHZ 




ASSEMBLED AND TESTED! READY TO USE! Over 3 years of design 
efforts were required to produce a TRUE S-100 Z80 CPU at a genuinely 
bargain price! BRAND NEW! 

FEATURES: 

* 2 or 4 MHZ Operation. * Generates MWRITE. so no front panel required. 
* Jump on reset capability. * 8080 Signals emulated for S-100 compatability 
* Top Quality PCB. Silk Screened. Solder Masked Gold Plated Contact Fingers 



PRICE CUT! 



S/^' 



LOW POWER - 250NS 8 FO r 

2114 RAM SALE! $49.95 



4K STATIC RAM'S. MAJOR BRAND, NEW PARTS. 
These are the most sought after 2114's, LOW POWER and 250NS FAST. 
SPECIAL SALE: $7 50 ea. or 8 FOR 49.95 



NEW! G.I. COMPUTER SOUND CHIP 

AY3-8910. As featured in July, 1979 BYTE! A fantastically powerful Sound 
& Music Generator. Perfect for use with any 8 Bit Microprocessor. 
Contains: 3 Tone Channels, Noise Generator, 3 Channels of Amplitude 
Control. 16 Bit Envelope Period Control, 2-8 Bit Parallel I/O. 3 D to A 
Converters, plus much more! All in one 40 Pin DIP. Super easy to interface 
to the S-100 or other busses. 
SPECIAL OFFER: $14.95 each Add $3 for 60 page Data Manual. 



Digital Research Computers 

^ (OF TEXAS) ■ 

P.O. BOX 401565 • GARLAND, TEXAS 75040 • (214) 494-1505 



TERMS: Add $1.00 postage, we pay balance. Orders undei Sib add 75C 
handling. No COD. We accept Visa and MasterCharge. Tex Res add 5% 
Tax. Foreign orders (except Canada) add 20% P & H. 90 Day Money Back 
Guarantee on all items. Orders over $50. add 85<t for insurance. 



NOT ASSOCIATED WITH DIGITAL RESEARCH OF CALIFORNIA, THE SUPPLIERS OF CPM SOFTWARE. 



Circle 222 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 275 



Circle 223 on inquiry card. 



LEADER [I 

Instruments Corp. P 



&CILLOSCOPES 




20 MHz, TRIGGERED 

■ Single trace; automatic trigger for 
highly stable, bright display. 

■ 17.5nSec rise time. ■ 10mV/cmto 
20V7cm Vertical Sensitivity; 11 
steps. 



20 MHz, DUAL TRACE 

■ Add, subtract modes on CH-1 & 
CH-2 facilitate easy checkout for 
simultaneous pulses, signal levels, 
distortion & noise cancellina. 



25 MHz 

DELAYED SWEEP, DUAL TRACE 

■ Built in variable delay circuitry — 
1/i Sec to 5 Sec. ■ 5mV/Div. Vertical 
Sensitivity. 




30 MHz, 

FIXED DELAY, DUAL TRACE 

■ Dual trace. 30 MHz bandwidth. 

■ 5mV/cm Vertical Sensitivity. 



COLOR BAR GENERATORS, BRIDGES, TESTERS.. 



NTSC Color Bar 
Pattern Generator 



Completely Portable, Battery 
Operated TV Color Analyzer 




• *"* msawmw 




Transistorized LCR Bridge 

Model 

k lCR- 

■740 



iable color b 



Model LCG-396 

• NTSC color bars 

• Provides lull-field Or IQW insertion, olus on-ofl control Of 
chroma and luminance 

• Belter checking and adjusting of punly and white balance 



751! Video (1 Volt died' and RF outogl tor TV and 
VTR equipment 

Equalizing ou'se chase locked to color sub-carrier 
4diu stable scanning control permits progressive or 
menaced scanning to eliminate Hicher 
- Provides all signals required to time test 4 evaluate « 
V MATV. CATV. VTH VCR. color and oiw systems 



• 18 convergence patterns — 
gated and rainbow patterns 

• 3 dot patterns 2 Crosshatch patterns 

• 3 vertical lines and 3 hor noniai lines I 
gray scale 

• Oscilloscope trigger outputs 

• Battery operated: 4 standard "C" cell 



Model 

s. tor easy Chroma LCG' 

bar gated. 3 bar 397 




urate 3 digit i 
I Induclance (LI. Capaclance (Cl and 
Resistance (ft within - Vt accuracy 

• Readouts variable with built- m 10'-. overrange 

• Loss Factor scale (Dl 

• Operates on 1 9V battery or through built-in AC ad 



The Automatic 

Transistor 

Checker 

Model 
LTC-906 

• Automatically checks 
transistors. FET's diodes, 
good 'bad. in or Out of circuit 

• Automatically identities Germanium or SilK 

• Automatically identifies elements 

• Automatically lesls broad range of parameters 
with Simple program on> ott switches 

• LED display plus audible tone indicates defective 
or good performance 

• Absolute meler readout o! H( e Bue and Leakage ci 

• Totally portable, battery operated — 9V battery 




Before you buy, 
check our prices. 

Call TOLL FREE 
(800) 645-9518 

In NY State call (516) 752-0050, 



IRAQlO SUPPLY CO INC 
855 Conklin St. 
Farmingdale, N.Y.11735 

YOUR ONE STOP DISCOUNT CENTER 

Master Charge, Bank Americard, Visa, C.O.D.'s accepted. 



"We Will Beat Any Advertised Price" 



CODs, shipping and 
insurance extra 

NY. State residents add 
appropriate sales tax 



C/MOS (DIODE CLAMPED) 




4024 - 








74CS3 - 1 


























































I M 


74C181 1 






451 a - 


1.20 


74C163 1 












4043 


120 


74C00 


.27 


74C173 - 1 




2 7 


74C174 - t 


















XI 


74C192 1 




.75 


74C14 - 


1,20 


74CI93 1 




















•JJ 


i*2 




.75 





TTLREED RELAY - SPST5V20ma $1 00 



PRINTED CIRCUIT BOARD. 



4" x 6" DOUBLE SIDED EPOXY BOARD 1/16" thick 
$.60 ea 5/S2.60 



EPOXY glass vector board 

1 /1 6" thick with 1 /1 0" spacing $1 .95 



CONTINENTAL SPECIALTIES 



i MAX 100 Freq. counter. 
An 8 digit 100 MHz count- 
er AC or DC input. — 
$129.00 



#2001 1Hz - 100KH2 
Function Generator, sine, 
square h triangle output. 
- $159.00. 



14S8 HS232 INTERFACE 
1489 RS232 INTRFACE - 
2509-TRt STATE STAT. SR - 
251 HEX 32 BIT SR- 
2522 STATIC SHIFT REG 
2708 SK. EPROM (450 nsl ■ 
TMS 3409 HC 80 BITS DYN 
271 6-ITI1 3 VOLTAGES 
2716-Untel) I 5V 
2102l«6Onsl - 
21 L02 1 I4S0 nsl - 
MM5270 4KX1DYN. - 



2101 1 254 x 4 STATIC - 

2111 1 266 * 4STATIC - 

2112 1258 x 4STATIC 

21 14-4K STAY RAM (450 nsl 

2117 tOK DYNRAM - 
UPD410 1-4K STAT RAM - 
4116 2 16K RAM 150NS 



41 16-3 16K STATIC RAM3M 
11 40 52BO,2107B4K DYNRAM - 
1-25 TMS4050L - 



9 95 82S126 

* 1.35 82S131 - 

24 95 AY51013VART- 

35 95 TRI 602 B - 

90 8703C TELEDYNE 8 BIT AD 
1.10 CONVERT - 

3 45 FT 1482 8 PSAT- 

195 MC M 657 1 A 7 <9 C haractat n« 
MM5321 TU SYNC GEN 



3 45 8080A 



7 WATT LD-65 LASER DIODE IR $8.95 



25 watt Infra Red Pulse <SG 2006 equiv.l 

Laser Diode (Spec sheet included) $24.95 

MINIATURE MULTI-TURN TRIM POTS 

100.2K.5K, 10K,20K,250K, 1 Meg, $.75 each . . .3/2.00 

2N3820 P FET ... . $ .45 

2N 5457 N FET $ .45 

2N2646 UJT $ .45 

ER 900 TRIGGER DIODES 4/$1 .00 

2N 6028 PROG. UJT $ 

FP 100 PHOTO TRANS $ .50 

RED, YELLOW, GREEN LARGE LED's. 2" 6/$1 .00 

RED/GREEN BIPOLAR LED's. 2" $ .95 

TIL-1 18 OPTO-ISOLATOR $ 

MCT-6 OPTO ISOLATOR $ .80 

1 WATT ZENERS: 3.3, 4.7, 5.1 , 5.6, 9.1 , 10, 

12, 15, 18, or 22V 6/$1,00 



DATEL'S DAC-08BC - 8 bit DAC - $9.95 



8" DISKETTES - HARD SECTOR 
$1.75, 10/$ 16.00 



CRYSTALS $3.45 ea. 


RIBBON CABLE 


2.000 MHz 


6.144 MHz 


FLAT (COLOR CODED) 


4.000 MHz 


8.000 MHz 


#30 WIRE 


3.57 MHz 


10.000 MHz 


26 cond. - .50/pef toot 


5.000 MHz 


20.000 MHz 


40cond. -.75/pef foot 


6.000 MHz 




50 cond.- .90/perfoot 



UNIVERSAL 4Kx8 MEMORY BOARD KIT 
$69.95 

32-21 02-1 fully buffered, 1 6 address lines, on board decoding 
for anv 4 of 64 pages, standard 44 pin buss, may be used with 
F-8 & KIM ^_^_ 



SILICON SOLAR CELLS 

4" diameter .4V at 1 AMP $10.00 



FCS 8024 - 4 digit 
C.C. 8" display 
FND503C.C. .5" 
FND510C.A. .5" 
DL 704 .3" C.C. 



LED READOUTS 

$5.95 DL-707C.A. .3" 

$ .85 DL747C.A. .6" 

$ .85 HP3400.8"CA 

$ .85 HP3405.8"CC 



$1.50 
$1.95 

$1.95 



Silicon Power Rectifiers 



12A 50A 125A 240A 



1.30 4.25 6.50 



1 .50 6.50 9.60 



.80 2.00 8.50 12.50 



.35 1.00 2.50 10.50 16.50 



45 1.25 3T00 12.50 20.00 



SAD 1024 a REDICON 1024 stage analog 
Brigde" shift register. 



"Bucket 
$9.95 



IN4148IIN914) 15/$1.00 

1 or .01 uf 25V ceramic disc, caps. 1 6/$ 1 .00, 1 00/$50.00 



DB25Pmale $2.95 

_ DB 25S female . . . $3.50 

CONNECTORS hoods $1.50 



RS232 



REGULATORS 



323K - 5V 3A $5.75 

309K $1 .60 

723 $ .50 

320T-5,12,or15V $1.30 



340K 12, 15 or 24 V $1.50 
340T 5,6,8, 12, 15, 

18or24V $1.30 

79MG $1.35 

78MQ5 $ .75 



TRANSISTOR SPECIALS 

2N6233-NPN SWITCHING POWER , SI .96 

MRF-8004 a CB RF Transistor NPN • .78 

2N3772 NPN Si TO-3 91 .00 

2N4908 PNP Si TO 3 91 .00 

2N4908 PNP Si TO-3 91.00 

2N5086 PNP Si TO-92 4/91 .00 

2N3137 NPN Si RF » .56 

2N3919NPNSiT0 3RF $1.50 

2N1 420 NPN Si TO-5 3/81 .00 

2N3767 NPN Si TO-66 9 ,70 

2N2222 NPN Si TO-18 5/91.00 

2N3055 NPN Si To-3 . , . 9 .60 

2N3904 NPN Si TO-92 6/S1 .00 

2N5296 NPN Si TO-220 9 .55 

2N3638 PNP Si TO-5 5)91.00 

MPSA 13 NPN Si 4/91.00 

2N1546 PNP GERM TO-3, $ 95 



HBBffl 



. IC SERIES 



7400 - 
74101 - 
7402- 
7403- 

7404 - 

7405 - 
7406- 
7408- 
7409 - 
7410- 
7411 - 
7412- 
7413- 
7414- 

7416 - 

7417 - 
7420 - 
7425- 
7426- 
7427- 
7430- 
7432- 
7437 - 
7438- 
7440- 

7441 - 

7442 - 
7445 - 
7447- 
7448 - 



7450- 
7472- 
7473- 

7474- 
7475- 
7476- 



7495- 



60 

7496 - .60 
74107 - .35 

74121 - .35 

74122 - .39 

74123 - .42 

74125 - .45 

74126 - 45 
74145 - ,75 
74148- 1.10 
74150- 1.10 
74151 - .65 
74153 - 55 
75154- 1.10 



74155 - .75 
74157 - .65 

74160 - .85 

74161 - .80 

74162 - 1.20 

74163 - .82 

74164 - .85 

74165 - .85 
74170 - 1.60 
74173- 1.30 

74174 - .85 

74175 - .75 

74176 - .75 

74177 - .75 

74180 - .75 

74181 - 1.90 
74190- 1.20 

74191 - 1.20 

74192 - .79 

74193 - .79 

74194 - .85 

74195 - .65 

74196 - .85 

74197 - .85 
74279 - .75 
74368 - .65 
74325 - 2.25 

75491 1 05 

75492 - 1 .05 
8T97 - 1.2S 
8T98 - 1.10 



1 4 pin headers 
16 pin headers 



3/$ 1.00 
$.40 ea. 



MM5387AA . 
MM5314.. .. 



.CLOCK CHIPS . 



$5.95 
. $4.75 



NO. 30 WIRE WRAP WIRE SINGLE STRAND 

100' $1-40 



ALCO MINIATURE TOGGLE SWITCHES 

MTA106SPDT 9105 

MTA 206 DPDT 91 .70 

MTA 206 P -DPDT CENTR OFF SI .85 

MSD 206 P-DPDT CENTER OFF LEVER SWITCH 



SOLID STATE SALES 

P.O. BOX 74B 

SOMERVILLE, MASS. 021 43 TEL. (61 : 



PRV 


2A 


6A 


25A 


100 






1.40 


200 


.80 


1.30 


2.20 


400 


1.00 


1.65 


3.30 


600 


1.30 


1.90 


4.40 



DIP SOCKETS 

SPIN .17 24 PIN 

14 PIN ,20 28 PIN .40 I 

16 PIN .22 40 PIN .60 | 

18 PIN .25 



SANKEN AUDIO POWER AMPS 

Si 1010 G 10 WATTS $ 6.75 

Si 1020 G 20 WATTS $12.95 

Si 1 050 G 50 WATTS $25.90 



TANTULUM CAPAC TORS 



.22UF35V 
.47UF35V 
.68UF 35 V 
1UF35V 
2.2 UF 20V 
3.3UF 20V 
4.7 UF 15 V 



5/$1 .00 
5/$ 1.00 
5/$1.00 
5/$1.00 
5% $1.00 
4/$1 .00 
5/$1 .00 



4/$1 .00 
$ .25 
$ .40 
3*1 .00 
5/$1 .00 
$ .70 
$ .95 



74LS03 
74LS04 
74LS05 
74LS08 
74LS09 
74LS10 
74LS1 1 
74LS12 
74LS13 
MLS 1 4 
74LS15 
74LS20 
74LS21 
74LS22 
74LS26 



74LS30 

74LS32 

74LS37 - 

74LS38 

74LS40 

74LS42 

74LS51 



74LS75 

74LS76 

74LS86 

74LS9B 

74LS92 

74LS93 

74LS107 

74LSI09 

74LS112 

74LS113 

74LS114 

74LS12S - 

74LS128 

74LS132 

74LS139 - 

74LS151 



74LS1S3 
74LS1S5 
74LS156 
74 LSI 57 
74 LSI 60 
74LS162 
74 LSI 83 
74LS164 
74LS168 
74LST69 
74LS170 
74LS1 73 
74LS1 74 
74LS175 
74LS181 
74LS190 
74 LSI 91 
74LS192 
74 LSI 93 
74LS198 
741.S196 
74LS221 
74LS197 
74LS240 
74LS241 
74LS242 
74LS243 
74LS244 
74LS251 

74LS258 
74LS259 

MLS 266 



90 74LS279 
90 74LS290 
.90 74LS293 



74LS365 
74LS366 
74LS367 
74LS368 
.90 74LS375 
— 74LS377 
74LS386 
74LS390 



LINEAR CIRCUITS 

LM201 - .75 
LM301/748 - .25 
LM307 - .30 
LM308 75 
LM31 1 - .75 
LM318 - 1 20 
LM324 - .95 
LM339 - 1 10 
LM358 - .70 
LM377 - 1,60 
LM380 - .95 
LM382 - 1.25 
LM386 - .80 
LM387 - 1.25 
LM1808 1 75 
LM1889 - 1 96 
CA3080 .95 
LM537 2.50 
LM553 - 2,50 
LM555 - .49 
LM556 - .86 
560-2.00 
565-95 
566- 1.10 



709 - .25 

710 - .45 

71 1 CH - .40 
741 C or V - .30 



8038CC - 3 90 
791 -1.95 
4136 - .95 
LF355 - 1 75 



SCR'S 


TRIACS 


1.5A 


6A 


35A 


PRV 


1A 


10A 


25A 


.45 


.60 


1.40 


100 


.45 


.80 


1.55 


.70 


.80 


1.90 


200 


.84 


1.30 


2.10 


1.20 


1.40 


2.60 


400 


1.30 


1.90 


3.10 


MBHEEZ3IEE3HI 


600 


2.00 


2.75 


4.30 



WE SHIP OVER 95% 

OF OUR ORDERS THE 

DAY WE RECEIVE THEM 



276 BYTE April 1980 



Circle 224 on inquiry card. 



NEW PRODUCTS! 

Super Color S-1 00 Video Kit $99. 95 Elf II Adapter Kit $24.50 

Expandable to 256 x 192 high resolution color 
graphics. 6847 with all display modes computer 
controlled. Memory mapped. 1K RAM expanda- 
ble to 6K. S-1 00 bus 1802, 8080, 8085. Z80 etc. 

Gremlin Color Video Kit $59.95 

32 x 16 alpha/numerics and graphics; up to 8 
colors with 6847 chip, 1K RAM at E000. Plugs 
into Super Elf 44 pin bus. Not expandable to high 
resolution Graphics. 



Plugs into Elf II providing Super Elf 44 and 50 pin 
bus plus S-1 00 bus expansion (With Super Ex- 
pansion). High and low address displays, state 
and mode LED's optional $18.00. 

1802 16K Dynamic RAM Kit $149.00 

1802/S-10Q expandable to 32K, Hidden refresh 
w/clocks up to 4 MHz w/no wait states Addl. 1 6K 
RAM $79.00. 



Quest Super Basic 

Quest, the leader in inexpensive 1802 systems 
announces another first. Quest is the first com- 
pany worldwide to ship a full size Basic for 1802 
systems. A complete function Super Basic by 
Ron Cenker including floating point capability 
with scientific notation (number range ±.17E 3a ). 
32 bit integer t 2 billion; Multi dim arrays; String 
arrays; String manipulation; Cassette I/O, Save 
and load, Basic, Data and machine language pro- 
grams; and over 75 Statements, Functions and 
Operators. 

Easily adaptable on most 1802 systems. Re- 
quires 12K RAM minimum for Basic and user 



programs. Cassette version in stock now. ROM 
versions coming soon with exchange privilege 
allowing some credit for cassette version. 
Super Basic on Cassette $40.00 

Tom Pittman's 1802 Tiny Basic Source listing 
now available. Find out how Tom Pittman wrote 
Tiny Basic and how to get the most out of it. 
Never offered before. $19.00 

S-1 00 4-Slot Expansion $ 9.95 

Super Monitor VI. I Source Listing $15.00 
Coming Soon: Assembler, Editor, Disassem- 
bler, DA/AD, Super Sound/Music, EPROM 
programmer, Stringy Floppy Disc System. 




RCA Cosmac Super Elf Computer $106.95 

Compare features before you decide to buy any A 24 key HEX keyboard includes 16 HEX keys 

other computer. There is no other computer on plus load, reset, run, wait, input, memory pro- 

the market today that has all the desirable bene- tect, monitor select and single step. Large, on 

fits of the Super Elf for so little money. The Super board displays provide output and optional high 

Elf is a small single board computer that does and low address. There is a 44 pin standard 

many big things. It is an excellent computer for connector slot for PC cards and a 50 pin connec- 



training and for learning programming with its 
machine language and yet it is easily expanded 
with additional memory, Full Basic, ASCII 
Keyboards, video character generation, etc. 

Before you buy another small computer, see if it 
includes the following features: ROM monitor; 
State and Mode displays; Single step; Optional 
address displays; Power Supply; Audio Amplifier 



tor slot for the Quest Super Expansion Board. 
Power supply and sockets for all IC's are in- 
cluded i n the price plus a detailed 1 27 pg . instruc- 
tion manual which now includes over 40 pgs. of 
software info, including a series of lessons to 
help get you started and a music program and 
graphics target game. Many schools and 
universities are using the Super Elf as a course 



and Speaker; Fully socketed for all IC's; Real cost of study. OEM's use it for training and R&D 



of in warranty repairs; Full documentation. 
The Super Elf includes a ROM monitor for pro- 
gram loading, editing and execution with SINGLE 
STEP for program debugging which is not in- 
cluded in others at the same price. With SINGLE 
STEP you can see the microprocessor chip opera- 
ting with the unique Quest address and data bus 
displays before, during and after executing in- 
structions. Also, CPU mode and instruction cycle 
are decoded and displayed on 8 LED indicators. 
An RCA 1861 video graphics chip allows you to 
co nnect to you r own TV with an i nexpensive video 
modulator to do graphics and games. There is a 
speaker system included for writing your own 
music or using many music programs already 
written. The speaker amplifier may also be used 
to drive relays for control purposes 



Remember, other computers only offer Super Elf 
features at additional cost or not at all. Compare 
before you buy. Super Elf Kit $106.95, High 
address option $8.95, Low address option 
$9.95. Custom Cabinet with drilled and labelled 
plexiglass front panel $24.95. Expansion Cabinet 
with room for 4 S-1 00 boards $41.00. NiCad 
Battery Memory Saver Kit $6.95. All kits and 
options also completely assembled and tested. 
Questdata a 12 page monthly software pub- 
lication for 1802 computer users is available by 
subscription for $12.00 per year. Issues 1-12 
bound $16.50. 

Tiny Basic Cassette $10.00, on ROM $38.00, 
original Elf kit board $14.95. 1802 software; 
Moews Video Graphics $3.50. Games and Music 
$3.00, Chip 8 Interpreter $5.50. 



Super Expansion Board with Cassette Interface $89.95 



This is truly an astounding value! This board has 
been designed to allow you to decide how you 
want it optioned The Super Expansion Board 
comes with 4K of low power RAM fully address- 
able anywhere in 64K with built-in memory pro- 
tect and a cassette interface. Provisions have 
been made for all other options on the same 
board and it fits neatly into the hardwood cabinet 
alongside the Super Elf. The board includes slots 
for up to 6K of EPROM (2708, 2758, 271 6 or Tl 
271 6) and is fully socketed. EPROM can be used 
for the monitor and Tiny Basic or other purposes. 
A IK Super ROM Monitor $19.95 is available as 
an on board option in 2708 EPROM which has 
been preprogrammed with a program loader/ 
editor and error checking multi file cassette 
read /write software, (relocatible cassette file) 
another exclusive from Quest. It includes register 
save and readout, block move capability and 
video graphics driver with blinking cursor. Break 
points can be used with the register save feature 
to isolate program bugs guickly, then follow with 
single step. The Super Monitor is written with 



subroutines allowing users to take advantage of 
monitor functions simply by calling them up. 
Improvements and revisions are easily done with 
the monitor. If you have the Super Expansion 
Board and Super Monitor the monitor is up and 
running at the push of a button. 

Other on board options include Parallel Input 
and Output Ports with full handshake They 
allow easy connection of an ASCI I keyboard to the 
input port RS 232 and 20 ma Current Loop for 
teletype or other device are on board and if you 
need more memory there are two S-1 00 slots for 
static RAM or video boards. Also a 1K Super 
Monitor version 2 with video driver for full capa- 
bility display with Tiny Basic and a video interface 
board Parallel I/O Ports $9.85, RS 232 $4.50, 
TTY 20 ma l/F $1.95, S-100 $4.50. A 50 pin 
connector set with ribbon cable is available at 
$15.25 for easy connection between the Super 
Elf and the Super Expansion Board. 
Power Supply Kit for the complete system (see 
Multi-volt Power Supply below). 



TERMS: $5.00 min. order U.S. Funds. Calif residents add 6% tax. 
BankAmericard and Master Charge accepted. 
Shipping charges will be added on charge cards. 



Same day shipment. First line parts only 
Factory tested. Guaranteed money back. 
Quality IC's and other components at fac- 
tory prices. 

INTEGRATED CIRCUITS 



7400TTL 

7400N 

7402N 
7404N 
7409N 
741 OK 
7414N 
742QN 
7422N 
743DN 
7442N 
7445N 
744 7N 
7448N 
7450N 
7474N 
7475N 
7485N 
7489N 
7490 N 
7492N 
7493M 
7495N 
741 00N 
74107N 
741P1N 
74123N 
741 25N 
741 45N 

?i': SON 

741 51 N 
74154N 

74157N 
74161N 

74162N 
74163N 
741 74N 
74175N 
741 WH 

74193N 
74221 N 
.■42S8N 
■A ifviN 
74366N 
74367N 



74LS00 TTL 

74LSGQN .35 

74LS02N .35 

74LSQ4N 35 

74LS05M .35 

74LS08N 35 

74LS10N 35 

74LS13N 55 

74LS14N 1 10 

74LS20N 35 

74LS22N 35 

74LS28N 41 

74LS30N 35 

74LS33N .75 

74LS38N .55 

74LS74N 1 25 

74LS75N 1.00 

74LS90N 85 

74LS93N 70 

74LS95N 1.10 

74LS107N 45 

74LS112M 45 

74LS113N .35 

74LS132N .89 

74LS136N 45 

74LS151N 85 

74LS155N .85 

74LS157N .85 

74LS162N 1.15 

74LS163N 1.15 

74LS174N 2 00 

74LS190N 1 06 

74LS221N 195 

74LS258N 67 

74LS367N 1 35 



CA3045 .90 

CA3046 1 10 

CA3081 1 80 

CA3082 190 

CA3089 2 95 
LM301AN..'AH 35 

LM305K 87 

LM307H 35 

LM308N 89 

LM309K 150 

LM311H/N 90 

LM317T/K 3 75 

LM318 1.35 

LM320K-5 1 50 



LM323K-5 5.95 

LM32DK-12 1 50 

LM320K-15 1 50 

LM320T-5 1 60 

LM320T-8 1 60 

LM320T-12 1 50 

LM320T-15 1 60 

LM324N 1 15 

LM339N 1 55 

LM340K-5 135 

LM340K-8 135 

LM340K-12 1.35 

IM340K-1S 1 35 

LM340K-24 1,35 

LM340T-5 1 25 

LM340T-8 125 

LM340T-12 1 25 

LM340T-15 1 25 

LM340T-1B 1 25 

LM340T-24 1 25 

LM343H 4 50 

LM350 7 50 

LM370 1 15 

LM377 3 00 

LM379 5 00 

LM380N 1 00 

LM381 1 60 

LM382 160 

LM703H 40 

LM7G9H 28 

LM723H/N .50 

LM733N .67 

LM741CH 35 

LM741N 32 

LM747H.'N 75 

LM748N 35 

LM1303N 1 75 

LM1304 1 10 

LM1305 1 27 

LM1307 2 00 

LM1310 275 

LM1458 .47 

LM1800 1.75 

LM1812 7.50 

LM1889 3 00 

LM2111 175 

LM2902 1 50 

LM3900N 60 

LM3905 1 75 
LM3909N 
MC1458V 
NE540H 
NF550N 
NF555V 
NE556A 
NE565A 
fJt :■■, 
NE567V 
NE570B 
78L05 
78L08 
78M05 
75108 
7549 1CN 
75492CN 
75494CN 



CO4021 1 25 

CD4022 1.10 

C04023 28 

CD4024 75 

CO4025 28 

CD4026 2 00 

CD4027 .66 

CO4028 85 

CD4029 1.02 

CD4030 45 

CO4035 102 

CD4040 102 

CO4042 85 

CD4043 85 

C04D44 85 

CD4046 1.67 

CD4049 45 

CD405O 49 

CD4051 1.13 

CD4060 142 

CD4066 71 

CD4068 .40 

CO4069 40 

CO4070 50 

CD4071 .ZB 

CD4072 .28 

CO4073 .28 

CO4075 .28 

CD4076 1.45 

CD4078 40 

C04081 .28 

CD4082 .28 

CD4116 .47 

CD4490 5.50 

CO4507 100 

CD4508 4.25 

CD4510 1.02 

CD4511 94 

C04515 2.52 

C04516 1 10 

CD4518 1 02 

CO4520 1 02 

CD4527 1.51 

CD4528 .79 

CD4553 3 50 

CD4566 2.25 

CD4583 450 

CD4585 1.10 

CD40192 3.00 
74C00 




Box 4430X, Santa Clara, CA 95054 
Will calls: 2322 Walsh Ave. 
^(408) 988-1640 



ELECTRONICS 



8/4116 200ns 64 00 

2513B 6 30 

MM5262 40 

MM 5280 3 00 

MM5320 9 95 

MM5330 5.94 

PD411D-3 4 00 

PD41TD-4 5.00 

P51C1L 895 

4200A 9 95 

82S25 2 90 

91L02A 1 50 
HD0165-5 
MM57100 

f„At , t'i ■■ 
MfV'.f.MA 



RESISTORS </. watt 5% 

10 per type .03 1000 per type 012 
25 per type 025 350 piece pack 

100 per type 015 5 per type 6 75 
Vi watt 5% per type 05 

KEYBOARDS 

L ..t'i key ASCI, kpyboarn ^ 

Fully assembled 

53 key ASCII M-yM'Mt! . 

Fully assemhled 



Metal Enclosure 



S67 50 
77 50 
60 00 
70 00 
1495 
29 95 



6 95 



3.50 



410D 
416 

CLOCKS 

r/M5:<': 
r/".b!\ 
VMiVr-: 
vr.< ■■ - 

f,",1'.-'!- 

MM5865 

CT7001 
CT7010 
CT7015 



7205 
7207 
7208 
7209 

■-■r \ 

' 

MM53104 

MICROPROCESSOR 



1C SOCKETS 
Solder Tin Low Profile 
PIN 1UP PIN 1UP 



16 28 42 



13.95 
22 00 
13 95 



8700CJ 

S750CJ 

L0130 9 95 

9400CJV/F 7 40 

ICL7103 9 50 

ICL7107 14 25 

CMOS 

CD34001 Fair 50 

CD4OO0 16 

CD4001 28 

CD4002 

C04006 

CD4007 

CD4008 

CD4009 

C04010 

CD4011 

CD4012 

C04013 

CD4014 

C04015 

CD4016 

CD4017 

CD4018 

CO4019 

CD4020 



74C04 
74C10 
74C14 

74C20 
74C30 
74C4B 
74C74 
74C76 
74C90 
74C93 
74C154 
74C160 
74C175 
74C192 
74C221 
74C905 
74C906 
I 74C914 
74C922 
74C923 
74C925 

■4 HI ,-'!.: 

74C927 



6502 
6504 
f>53? 
6800 
6802 
6820 
6850 



12 50 
16 50 
1360 



2.90 



8T23 
8T24 
8T25 
8T26 
8T28 
8T97 



3.10 
3 50 
3.20 



2101-1 3! 

2102-1 ! 

2102AL-4 1.; 

2102AN-P1 1 i 

21L02-1 1 ' 



8214 

8216 290 

8224 290 

8228 5.35 

8251 8.50 

8253 15 00 

8255 9 25 

8257 19.50 

8259 19 50 

1802CP ptas 13 95 

1802DPplas 17 95 

1861 P 1150 

COP1B02CD 19 95 

CDP1B02D 25 00 

COP1861 12 95 

UART/FIFO 

AY5-1013 5.50 

AY5-1014 750 

3341 6 95 

PROM 

1702A 3 95 

2513S upper . (->■■ 

2708 7 75 

2716T1 24 50 

2710 Mel 34 95 

S. 27 Hi intei 240 00 

2732 85 00 

2758 22 50 

8741A 85 00 

8748 75 00 

8748-8 70 00 

8755A 65 00 

N82S23 2 95 

NS:'Si.>3 3 50 



WIRE WRAP LEVEL 3 



16 33 28 



2 MHz 4.50 

4 MKi 4 25 

5 MHz 4 25 

10 MHz 4.25 

18 MHz 3 90 

20 MHz 3 90 

32 MHz 3.90 

32768 Hz 4 00 

' cJ;!/ MHz 4.50 

:i -/K MHz 1.20 

? 111!)" MHz 1.95 

2.097152 MHz 4 50 

:■■ ;-:?h mhz 4 50 

3 2768 MHz 4 50 

5 0688 MHz 4.50 

V 85 MHz 4.50 

5 7143 MHz 4.50 

h bWih MHz 4.50 

14 31818 MHz 4 25 

't 432 VHz 4.50 

22 1184 MHz 4 50 

KEYBOARD ENCODERS 

*■'.- .■:!,>, $12 50 

AV5-3600 17 95 

AY5-9100 10 50 

AY5-9200 16 50 

74C922 5.50 

74C923 5 50 

HD0165-5 6 95 



RS23Z 

OB25P 2.95 

DB25S 3 95 

Cover 1 50 

RS232 Complete Set 6 50 
DE9S 1 95 

DA15P 2 10 

DA15S 3 10 

Hickok3Vi Digit LEO 
multimeter 69.95 

Stopwatch Kit 26.95 
Aula Clock Kit 17.95 
Not a Cheap Clock Kit 
£14 95 

Includes everything except 
case 2-PC hoards f. V,\ 
LED Hispiays 5314 clock 
chip, transformer, all 
components and full in- 
structions Orange rjis- 
plays.also avail Same kit 
w an displays. Red 
only S21.95CaseS11 75 



LEOS 

RedT0i8 15 

Green. Yellow T018 .20 

Jumbo Red 20 

Green. Orange. Yellow Jumbo 25 
Chplite LED Mounting Clips 8S1 25 
(specify red. amber, green, yellow, clear) 

CONTINENTAL SPECIALTIES in stock 

Complete line of breadboard tesi equip 
MAX-10Q S digit Freq. Ctr S128.95 



SPECIAL PRODUCTS 

MM5865 Stopwatch Timer 

with 10 pg spec 
PC board 
Switches Mom Pushbutton 

Encoder HO0165-5 
Paratronics 100A Logic 
Analyzer Kit $z; 

Model 10 Trigger 

Expander Kit $2S 

Model 1 50 Bus 

Grabber Kit S3f 

Sinclair Vh Digit 



Clock Calendar Kil 



30 MHz Frequency 



< 3iin n: 



i?6VCT6QOma 3 

12V 250 ma wall plug 2 

12V CT 250 ma wall plug 3 
24V CT 400 ma 3 

10V 1 2 amp wall plug 4 

12V 6 amp 12 

12V 500 ma wall plug 4 

12V 1 amp wall plug 6 

12V 3 amp 8 

10/15 VAC 8/16 VA wall plug 9 
DISPLAY LEDS 

MAM CA 270 2 

MAN3 CC 125 

MAN72/74 CA/CA 300 

OL704 CC .300 

D1707DI7B7R CA .300 
OL727/728 CA/CC 500 



DL750 

FND359 
FND500/507 
INHWJi'v 
FND800/807 

3 digit Bubble 

4 digit Bubble 
DG8 Fluorescent 
DG10 Fluorescent 

:: ay:- 14 pin display 
10 digit display 
7520 Clairex photocells 
TIL31' ■' 



90 



MAM3640 
MAN4f : .li: 
MAM.; i ;i 
MAN4710 
MAN4740 
M ft Nr- :-.;;. 
MAN6710 
MAN6740 

MA1002A 

MAII]02E 
MA1G12A 
1D2P3 



CA/CC 600 1 

CC 600 1 95 

CC .357 70 

CC/CA .500 1 35 

CC/CA 500 90 

CC/CA 800 2 20 

60 

SO 



39 
9 50 



CC 30 

CA 40 

CC 40 

CA 40 

CC 40 

CC 56 2 95 

CA 60 1 35 



EJE i 



1 35 



ROCKWELL AIM 65 Computer 

6502 based single board with full ASCII keyboard 
and 20 column thermal printer. 20 char, alphanu- 
meric display, ROM monitor, fully expandable. 
S375.00. 4K version $450.00. 4K Assembler 
$85.00, 8K Basic Interpreter $100.00. 

Special small power supply for AIM65 assem. in 
frame $49.00. Complete AIM65 in thin briefcase 
with power supply $485.00. Molded plastic 
enclosure to fit AIM65 plus power supply $47,50. 
Special Package Price: 4K AIM, 8K Basic, power 
supply, cabinet $599.00 

AIM65/KI MA/I M/Su per Elf 44 pin expansion 
board; 3 female and 1 male bus. Board plus 3 
connectors $22.95. 

AIM65/KIMA/IM I/O Expansion Kit; 4 parallel and 
2 serial ports plus 2 internal timers $39.00. PROM 
programmer for 2716 $150.00. 



Multi-volt Computer Power Supply 

8v Samp, +18v .5 amp, 5v 1.5 amp, -5v 
.5 amp, 12v .5 amp, -12 option. ±5v, ±12v 
are regulated. Kit $29.95. Kit with punched frame 
$37.45, $4.00 shipping. Kit of hardware $14.00. 
Woodgrain case $10. 00, $1.50 shipping. 



PROM Eraser Will erase 25 PROMs in 
15 minutes. Ultraviolet, assembled $37.50 
Safety switch/Timer version $69.50 



60 Hz Crystal Time Base Kit $4.40 

Converts digital clocks from AC line frequency 
to crystal time base. Outstanding accuracy. 



NiCad Battery Fixer/Charger Kit 

Opens shorted cells that won't hold a charge 
and then charges them up, all in one kit w/full 
parts and instructions. $7.25 



LRC 7000 Printer $389, 00 

40/64 column dot matrix impact, std, paper. 
Interface all personal computers. 

Televideo Terminal $845.00 

102 key, upper, lowercase, 10 Baud rates 24 x 80 
char, microprocessor cont. edit. cap. 
Intertube II Terminal $874.00 
Super Brain 
Floppy Disk Terminal $2895.00 



79 IC Update Master Manual $29.95 

Complete IC data selector, 2500 pg. master refer- 
ence guide. Over 50,000 cross references. Free 
update service through 1979. Domestic postage 
$3.50. No foreign orders. 



S-100 Computer Boards 

8K Static RAM Kit $135.00 

16K Static RAM Kit 265.00 

24K Static RAM Kit 423.00 

32K Static RAM Kit 475.00 

16K Dynamic RAM Kit 199.00 

32K Dynamic RAM Kit 310.00 

64K Dynamic RAM Kit 470.00 

Video Interface Kit $129.00 



Video Modulator Kit $8.95 

Convert TV set into a high quality monitor w/o 
affecting usage. Comp. kit w/full mstruc. 



Digital Temp. Meter Kit $34.00 

Indoor and outdoor. Switches back and forth. 
Beautiful. 50" LED readouts. Nothing like it 
available. Needs no additional parts for com- 
plete, full operation. Will measure -100° to 
+ 200°F, tenths of a degree, air or liquid. 
Beautiful woodgrain case w/bezel $11.75 






FREE: Send for your copy of our NEW°1980 
QUEST CATALOG. Include 28t' stamp. 



Circle 225 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 277 




TERMINAL 

DATA 

CORPORATION 



MODEL 1200 RS 232 OATA SPLITTER 

available in kit form 



Model 1 200K gives the terminal or micro- 
processor user a second interface for a printer, 
plotter, cassette or tape drive. It operates at anv 
speed & isolates the two output devices from 
each other, while providing 2 RS 232 interfaces 
from the terminal or microprocessor. 

The kit consists of 3 RS-232 connectors, 
printed circuit board, all necessary components, 
enclosure, mounting hardware & assembly in- 
structions $64.00 

write or call 

TERMINAL DATA CORP. 

11878 Coakley Cir. 

Rockville, MD 20852 

(301)881 7655 



MEMOREX 

Floppy Discs 

Lowest prices. WE WILL NOT 
BE UNDERSOLD!! Buy any 

quantity 1-1000. Visa Mastercharge 
accepted. Call free (800)235-4137 
for prices and information. All 
orders sent postage paid. 



PACIFIC 
EXCHANGES 

100 Foothill Blvd 
San Luis Obispo. CA 
93401 (In Cat. call 
(805) 543-1037.) 




NEW FROM THE MIT PRESS! 

Computer Music 
Journal 

a respected source of information 
on applications of computers to music 

Beginning and advanced articles 

on: composition algorithms and 
languages • synthesis of sound • digital 
signal processing • microprocessor 
applications • psychoacoustics • 
computers in musicology 
Current literature and recordings 
Products of interest 
Interviews, conference listings 

4 issues a year/$20.00, individuals/ 
$30.00, institutions 

The MIT Press, 28 Carleton Street 
Cambridge, MA 02 1 42 
(617)253-2889 



Circle 226 on inquiry card. 



Circle 227 on inquiry card. 



Circle 228 on inquiry card. 



Word Processing 
for UCSD Pascal 

PROFF formats and prints out text 
files. FORML interacts with PROFF to 
produce multiple copies of a form let- 
ter, each with a different addressee. 
Features include: 

-multi file input 
—interactive debug 
—adjustable margins 
—filling, centering 
— underscoring 

Each program is written in UCSD 
Pascal and is distributed on floppy 
disk. User manuals are included or 
can be purchased separately. Volume 
discounts are available. 

(714) 452-0681 

Renaissance Systems Inc. 

11760 Sorrento Valley Rd. 

San Diego, Ca. 92121 



— Professional — 

Real Estate Programs 

available on cassette or diskette 

for Apple & TRS-80 II 

Property Management System 

• Rental Income Tracking 

• Complete Expense Analysis 

System « Manual $225.00 
Manual $15.00 
Program Modules: 

1) Home Purchase Analysis 

2) Income Property Cashflow Leverage 

3) Construction Cost/Profit 

4) Tax Deferred Exchange 

5) APR Loan Analysis 

Price Per Module $30.00 

Add S5.00 for Programs 

on Diskette 

At Computer Stores 
M everywhere or call 
lealty ||ompany ci3) 372-9419 

for COD --"» 
2045 Manhattan Ave., Herntosa Beach, CA 90254 





MICRO COMPOSER 

DISK VERSION 
with the purchase of a 

48K APPLE II or PLUS 

& DISK II w / controller 




^fappio computer 

FARNSWORTH 
COMPUTER CENTER 

1891 N. Farnsworth & E-W Tollway 
Aur ora, II. 60505 (312) 851-38 88 

Weekdays; 10-8; Sat. 10-5 



Circle 229 on inquiry card. 



Circle 230 on inquiry card. 



Circle 231 on inquiry card. 



DISK DRIVC/CRT 




*Sfll€*M^«m 




Shugort <- iBSl 
SR801A lH''^ :v " JMI 
for 1 ! ■" W* 
RS MOD. II 1 jpJH^Spcgj 




*489 ■■ 


HozeJtlne 1 000 (unused) * 

Shugort SA400 


599 
282 
399 
399 
799 
1645 

rd. 


Pertcc FD200 *282 - FD250 . . . 

MPIB51 *277-652 

SflSOlRuj/PS/Cob 

Dual Drives w/PS/Cob 

LIMIT6D QUANITIT6S 

AATI 3304 UJ. MocRrthur BK 
I Wl 1 1 Santa Ana, Cfl 92704 


(714)979-9923 





A better way 

to pay for your 

business system. 

Our lease plans have saved a 
lot of businesses a lot of 
money on new equipment. 
A low monthly payment lets 
you acquire the system you 
need at a price you can af- 
ford. To find out more, just 
call us. Do it now. 



CORPORATION 

P. O. Box 467, Westport, CT 06880 
(203) 226-9582 

The small systems financing specialists. 



WANTED: 
Computer Operators 

with your own microprocessor 

Full or Part Time 



You will use your computer to input data from 
local accounts onto our Host Computer 

• We pay $1500 to $2500 per month 
predicated on amount of data entered 

• You must own or have access to a 
microprocessor or terminal 

• You select hours & work load but you must 
consistently complete assignments 

• You will be representing our company with 
Business & Professional people. 

WRITE OR CALL FOR INFORMATION 

NYLAC DATA SYSTEMS 

P.O. Box 594 

Warrensburg MO 64093 

(816)747-8011 



Circle 232 on inquiry card. 



Circle 233 on inquiry card. 



Circle 234 on inquiry card. 



\ 



M 




• 



Specifications: 



(Printer not pictured) 

— A complete computer package, easy to install; easy to maintain 
— Practical to operate; designed for the businessman/woman 
(even for non-computer specialists) 
— Upwards expandable (built-in flexibility & updating) 
— Desk-top (rack mount available) 
— Can use many available software packages 
—Expandable for multi-user functions 



Options: 



— Z-80 CPU 
(4 MHz) with 
2SIO + 3PI0 

— S-100 Compatible 

— Two 8" Floppy Disk 
Drives 

— Single/Double Density 
Disk Controller 

— 80 x 24 Terminal with 
editing capabilities plus 
second page memory 

— 132 Column DOT Matrix 
printer 

— Compiler Business Basic [C 
Basic 2 — version 2.04] 

— Powerful OS-1 Operating System 
(uses any CP/M or Cromenco pro 
gram) 

— All necessary cabling and documenta- 
tion 

— Osborne software package: general ledger, 
accounts payable/receivable and payroll 



- Double sided Disk 
Drives 



PR AGM AT IX- 100 ™ 



Assembled and Tested 



- Structured Systems 
Software 
- 220 V/50 Hz available 

— Dealer Inquiries Invited 
Quantity pricing available 

-Call for exact p&d on options 

Terminal with special function 
and line insert/delete keys 



— 8 channel S 10 with real time clock 
and interrupt control 
— Autotype— powerful word processor 

- Qume S/5 45 RO Printer with Tractor 

Feed 
- 10 & 20 MBY Removable Hard Disk, 

DMA Controller & Custom Cabinetry 
available 

- CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital 
Research 



In California: 415-321-5601 
Outside Ca.: 800-227-8266 



Electrolabs 

POB 6721, Stanford, Ca. 94305 

Circle 229 on inquiry card. 



Worldwide: 

TLX: 345567 Electrolabs PLA 
Circle 235 on inquiry card. 



MM I 







SINGLE BOARD COMPUTER $99.50* 

with 6800 MPU. 6850 serial I/O, 2 6820 
parallel I/O (32 lines). 512 RAM, socket for 
2708. 2716, EROM. Interface modules for 
industrial control, data acquisition, lab 
instrumentation, on 44 pin 4%"x6Vfe" PCB's. 
RAM, ROM, CMOS RAM/battery. A/D, D/A, 
Driver/Sensor. Serial I/O, Parallel I/O, 
Counter/Timer, IEEE 488 GPIB, floppy 
controller. 

"OEM (500 piece) price 



IV IN IKK 



1801 South Strwt 
UfayetteJN 47904 
Phone (317) 742-8428 



Corp. 



Power Supplies 

INPUT; 11S»ac43-63hi 
OUTPUT 5 «Jc0.2S amps 
REGULATION. 0.1% »5m« 
NL-FL. * 0.1°«. ± 5mVloM0% 
Input change 
RIPPLE: 2mV RMS man . 10 mV 



STABILITY: Typically tO mV (or 

eighi hour pe»io<J 
REMOTE SENSING. REMOTE VOLTAGE ADJUSTMENT 
OVERLOAD PROTECTION and OVERVOLTAGE PROTECTION 
ALSO AVAILABLE IN 12 VDC k 13 AMPS S7900pe<unM 



5 volts 
@ 25 amps 

SURPLUS UNITS IN 
LIKE NEW CONDITION 




» § 

•sr f 



22/44 EDGEBOARD CONNECTOR 
TIN SOLDERTAIL .156" x .200" 



LARGE QUANTITIES AVAILABLE 

$i.3Seach T0lofS12.50 



I 



1 Yt AMP 
FULL 

WAVE 

BRIDGE 

F1ECT1FIER 



REED RELAYS 



BODY SIZE: 
appfOi 1 inch long 
'•» inch high 




ALL CLECTROniCS CORP. 



905 S. Vermont Ave. 
DEPT. BY-1 



• Los Angeles, Calif. 90006 
(213)380-8000 TERMS 

• Quantises Umilsd 

STORE & WAREHOUSE HOURS .Mm o,dersio.oo 

Mon.-Fri. Saturday ' **■*?■" 

9AM-5PM 10AM-3PM ,£RS3ie% 

SEND FOR OUR FREE CATALOG-p.o.p, sh^ng 




■ Animation Compiler and 
Graphics Editor Package 

■ Add smooth, fast action 
to basic programs 

■ Create ad layouts, 
newsletter covers, posters 

$14 95 

*** ' "'^^ Write or call for complete cataloq 

AMCROIPONICSJnc. 

1 125 N. Golden State Blvd. / Suite G 
Turlock, CA 95380 (A) 
(209) 667-2888 / 634-8888 

We are experiencing telephone difficulties, 

please keep trying. 

California residents add 6°o tax VISA or MC 






Circle 236 on inquiry card. 



Circle 237 on inquiry card. 



Circle 238 on inquiry card. 



2716's 



ANY QUANTITY 

$5 per order for shipping 
handling & insurance 



floppy drives 
$1550 

including two Siemens 8" 
drives, cabinet & power 



Intelligence Systems, Ltd. 

124 South Delaware, Indianapolis, IN 
(3(7) 63I-55I4 



in stock! Teletype 43 ASR'sU! 
Specials: 

DECLA34's $1,095 

Hazeltine 1400's $498 

Hazeltine 1552'$ $1,095 

Hazeltine 1420's $895 

Hazeltine 1500s $970 
Ball TD 23" & 15" Monitors $485 

DLHWA's $475 

Alto: 
LAI 20 s Florida Data Corp Printers 

Hez Mod Is & 1400 & 1500 Series Couplers & Modems 

Contact: Joe Cameron 

J. Cameron Associates, Inc. 

One Grove St., Pittiford, NY 14534 

716-385 1681 



BASF 

Floppy Diskettes 
ALL MODELS 



CENTRONICS 

700 Series Ribbons 



PRICES TO LIGHT-UP 
YOUR EYES 




GEM BUSINESS SYSTEMS Ltd. 

60 East 42nd Street 
New York City 10017 

(212) 682-9005 



Circle 239 on inquiry card. 



Circle 240 on inquiry card. 



Circle 241 on inquiry card. 



SURPLUS INVENTORY 



NEW 

$99 



Cf 



22 MHz 
BANDWIDTH 

'SOLID STATE MONITORS: Syivama 12" B&W CRT. 22 MHz 
video bandwidth, 800 ttne resolution! ASL Model C12ACB OEM 
tabletop style without case P4 phosphor, inputs = separate video, 
horz. & vert, pos sync pulses at nominal TTUCMOS levels. Any 
sweep rate, 10-20 KHz. 115 VAC Simple TRS-flO hookup, add 2 
jumpers. With full maint. manual incl, timing, schematics, TRS-80 
hookup etc. Used, re-checked, very clean, no burns $77. New. 
checked $99 

2102 BONANZA: Prime, brand new static 1024x1 RAM 
Fatrchild F-2102-FPC. 350 ns. Sold in sleeves of 25. 1-3 sleeves at 
$20 ea, 4-9 sleeves at $16 ea. 10 sleeves and up at $10 per sleeve, 
that's prime, new 2102s at $ ,40 ta 

*S100 CORE SALE: Brand new. tested Ampex core See article 
"IT'S TIME FOR CORE" (9/79 Kilobaud p. 34) which describes an 
easily built interface between this core and an S-100 machine But 
ignore the prices in the article! Sale priced, including large 
documentation pkg 8K boards $99 16K boards $230, Add $4 for 
schematics of core 

'OTHER SURPLUS BARGAINS: HARD DISKS, new w/man- 
ual $895 SHUGART SA800-1/801 floppies w/manual. new $425 
Full ASCII KEYBOARDS $44 TOUCHTONE DECODERS $66. 

TERMS: UPS Included 48 states except disk drives. UPS COD 
add $1.25 VISA & MC add 4% NJ add sales tax Everything 
guaranteed Immediate shipment or immediate refund. Phone 
orders and questions are welcome 

' Writ* or call for full spec sheet* on ipecttic Items. 

ELECTRAVALUE INDUSTRIAL 

Phone orders 

are welcome 

201/267-1117 



FLEXIBLE FILES 

DATA BASE MANAGEMENT 
FOR APPLE II 

Here is the Data Base Management System 
you've been waiting for! Define your own 
files — from name and address to client 
followup to inventory. Includes the follow- 
ing functions: 

1. BUILD 

2. CHECK AND CHANGE 

3. SORT (MULTIPLE FIELDS) 

4. SEARCH (SIMPLE OR COMPLEX! 

5. PRINT (CREATE LABELS, REPORTS. ETC.) 

6. NAME ADDRESS INTERFACE TO POWER 
FUL WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE. 

7. DELETE (NO SPACE WASTED) 

Uses Exclusive 'MENU' feature. Allows fre- 
quently used data to be entered with 2 
keystrokes. Great for home, business, club 
or church. 

Special Introductory Offer Price $95. 

AGENT COMPUTER SERVICES 

902 W. WAYNE ST. 

FORT WAYNE, IN 46804 

(219) 422-6551 

48KDISKII APPLESOFT REQUIRED 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 



C ggppLE ) 

SUPER SALE 

16K Apple II tQQ 1 ! OH 

or Apple II Plus Ja7 J.UU 

Apple Disk II 

w/controller $529.95 

Apple Soft or 

Integer Cards $159.95 

Pascal Language Card $459.95 

10 Megabyte Disk 

for Apple $4695.00 

DC Hayes Modems $339.95 

Graphics Tablet $695.00 

UCffiHl CDfTFUTER STORE 

P O.BOX lOOO DESTIN, FL 32541 

ACROSS FROM RAMADA INN 

904-837-2022 

Credit Cards Accepted 



Circle 243 on inquiry card. 



Circle 244 on inquiry card. 




IS READY 



Call For 
DEALER 

In Your Area 



Z-80 CPU 




DOUBLE/SINGLE 
DISK CONTROLLER 



Two serial ports, three par- 
allel ports. 2/4 MHz, on 
board Prom Monitor Phan- 
toms. (Less cable and Mon- 
itor). A & T $325.00 




Two stage phase lock loop 
circuitry for greatest relia- 
bility, data transfer at maxi- 
mum rate. Transparent den- 
sity selection. 8" or 5" op- 
eration 2 or 4 MHZ (Some 
restrictions on DMA). 
DMA — $425.00 
STD. — $385.00 



16K, 32K 
STATIC RAM 



; . 



Worlds most reliable mem- 
ory, responds to extended 
address lines A16, A17, 
cool running, fast. 
16K-$395.00 32K-$650.00 



32K,48K, 64K 
DYNAMIC RAM 




Basic dynamic board tested 
to run at 4MHZ with our 
Z-80 board. 4116 chips at 
200 nanosecond speed in- 
sures most reliable datasto- 
rage. Double density and 
DMA compatible. 
32K-$580.00 48K-$640.00 
64K-$750.00 



32K, 48K, 64K 
ERROR DETECTING 
Cromenco/ Alfa Micro 




State of the art develop- 
ment. Parity generation and 
error detection. Compatible 
with 16 bit CPU designs. 
16K bank, select under soft- 
ware control. 4MHZ Z-80, 
8086, Cromenco, Alpha Mi- 
cro compatible. 
32K-$650.00 48K$725.00 
64K-$850.00 



FLOPPYS 



TELEVIDEO 912 



TELEVIDEO 920 



8" Shugart $550.00 

8" Siemans $525.00 

5" Siemans $350.00 

(Double Sided) 

8" CDC $675.00 

8" Remex $645.00 

FLOPPY DISKS 

D YS A N Quality 




80 x 24— Lower case des- 
cenders. Teletype or type- 
writer keyboard 110/220 
VAC. 50 to 19. 2K Baud 
Hex entry pad. Similar to 
SOROC but better looking 
with NO FAN NOISE 




WINCHESTER/SHUGART 
SA 1000 



Similar to TV 912 but has 
programmable functions 
keys across top. Excellent 
for WORDSTAR Text Edi- 
ting. 




WINCHESTER/CENTURY 
DATA SYSTEM 
(Hunter Shown) 



5 megs now expandable to 
10, works alongside floppy 
disk drive for expanded 
storage. Use with controller 
below. 

$1950.00 




20 megs expandable to 
40— Marksman series, plugs 
into our CPU parallel port 
or MP/M board drive, cabi- 
net, power supply, 2.0 Bios. 
$4850.00 



MP#l/0 TIMER 



80 x 24 VIDEO 



8" SSSD ....$4.25 

8" SSDD $5.50 

8" DSDD $7.60 

5" SSDD $4.10 

(Boxes of 1 only) 



Available 
March 1980 



Designed for MP/M® soft- 
ware of Digital Research. 6 
users serial port, three 8 bit 
parallel ports for hard disk. 
Timer and vectored in- 
terrupt. 

®TM Digital Research 




WINCHESTER/FLOPPY 
INTERFACE 



Keyboard input, Z — 80 Pro- 
cessor, on board RAM 
makes this a non-memory 
mapped substitute for a 
terminal when mated with 
a keyboard. 

$430.00 



Available 
March 1980 



Allows mixing of Shugart 
Winchester and floppy 
drives on same cable when 
used with DP-DSK. Sup- 
plied with software Bios 
for MP/M®and 2.0 
<R>TM Digital Research 



SOFTWARE/ 
CABLES/PROMS 

CP/M®2.2 $150.00 

MP/M? $350.00 

2708 Monitor . . .$ 25.00 
2716 Monitor . . .$ 40.00 
Disk 50 Pin ... .$ 22.00 

RS-232 $ 15.00 

CPU to Back. . . .$ 32.00 
Disk DC ......$ 4.50 

Disk AC $ 2.50 

Winchester $ 28.00 



dp s-ioo main Frame 




[•12 slot S-100 Motherboard (6 populated) 
>+8V @ 20A ±16V @ 6A. (Nylon card 

guides). 
•Mates with disk system shown in cen- 
ter column. 
I • 3 user convenience outlets at rear. 
[•Status indicators for I/O wait, memory 
error, voltage levels. 
► Multi-user capable with circuit board 
selection at top. 
Kit (less fans) $295.00 A & T $450.00 



disk Drive storage 




• Cabinet comes with multiple power. 

• Supply to suit all popular disk drives 
±5A,+24@6A. 

• DP-1000K Twin double density Shu- 
gart SA-800B or Siemens FDD-100-8 
(1 megabyte). $1800.00 

• DP-2000K Double sided, double den- 
sity Shugart SA-850-R or Siemens 
FDD-200-8 (2 megabytes). $2450.00 

• Drive box less drives with ample power 
supply. 

Kit (less fans) $295.00 A & T $450.00 



NORTH STAR Competitor 




• Cost effective Z-80 dual drive micro | 
system. 

• Double density Siemans drives sport | 
340K single sided, 680K double sided. 

• 32K RAM standard, expandable to 64K. 

® 

• CPM 2.0 software included. 

$2450.00 I 



West: 

DELTA PRODUCTS 

15392 Assembly Lane, Unit A 
Huntington Beach, Calif. 92649 
Tel: (714) 898-1492 

Circle 245 on inquiry card. 



wm& 



PRODUCTS 



East. 

DELTA PRODUCTS 

11 Edison Drive 

New Lennox, Illinois 60451 

Tel: (815) 485-9072 



Telex: 681-367 DELTMAR HTBH 



MYCHESS 

•Highest scoring microcomputer 

chess program at the 1979 ACM 

North America Computer Chess 

Championship. 
•Available for CP/M, CDOS, IMDOS, 

TRS-80, hard-sectored North Star 

with CP/M 

•Program allows 9 levels of play 
•Searches on the opponent's time 
•Program enables you to save game 

for later play 
•Optional formated hard copy of 

game 
•Allows computer to play itself 

$50.00 

Contact: 

COMPUTER SERWCES 

2431 LyvonaLane 
Anchorage, AK 99502 
(907) 243-8730 



MINI FLOPPY SALE 



TRS-80 OWNERS 
SINGLE SIDED $365.00 
DOUBLE SIDED $485.00 
READY TO GO-CABINET- 
POWER SUPPLY-CABLE 
ASSEMBLED $ TESTED 



ADD ON DRIVES 
SINGLE SIDED $225.00 
DOUBLE SIDED $ 345.00 



INTERFACE, INC. 
20932 CANTARA STREET 
CANOCA PARK,CA. 91304 
(213) 341-7914 

MASTER CHARGE § VISA 



TRS-80 II 

TWO NEW 
CASSETTES 

• VENTURE ANALYSIS • 

ANALYSE VARIOUS EFFECTS 

IN MINUTES 

7 YR RESULTS INCLUDE: 

REVENUES, COSTS 

BT & AT EARNINGS 

UNDEPRECIATED CAPITAL 

CASH FLOW - ROIC 

AND OTHERS 

16 K 14.95 

• DUPL. BRIDGE SCORING • 

4, 5, 6 TABLES 

HOWELL MOVEMENT - 

ENTER SCORES, BOARD 

AND PLAYER TOTALS 

4K 6.95 

Check orM.O. To: 

RLK SOFTWARE 

1310 E. Clavendon St. 
Arlington Heights, IL 60004 



Circle 246 on inquiry card. 



Circle 247 on inquiry card. 



Circle 248 on inquiry card. 





WE HAVE 

8039 

MICROCOMPUTERS 
NEW PRIME PARTS 




•TIMER APPLICATIONS 

• CLOCKS 

• SYSTEM CONTROLLERS 

• KEYBOARD ENCODING 

• 5 VOLT SUPPLY 6MHz 

• ETC. 


SEND CHECK FOR 

IMMEDIATE DELIVERY 

1-5 $19 6-25 $15 

OVER 25 CALL OR WRITE: 

MARSHALL PHILLIPS 

U.S.I., DEPT.37 

10324 S. DOLFIELD ROAD 

OWINGS MILLS, MD 21117 

(301) 363-3000 TELEX: 8-7675 



AD-8/1 ANALOG I/O INTERFACE 




FOR SS-50 BUSS 
6800 SYSTEMS 



8 AID ifi| 

Vary fait AID ovar 8500 
1 DfA output channel with 
Bipolar input and output 
Full 8 bit resolution 
Upward compatible to 8 SOX 
Complete documentation 
Fully assembled and tested 
Vita and M.C. accepted 

$109.50 

CCM, INC. 

P.O.Box 2308 
Retton, VA 22091 



rmnsivE rcififflT 



16K UPGRADE KIT FOR TRS-80, APPLE, PET, 
SORCERER $70 

Mostek 4215-3 200ns 16K x 1 RAMS 

MICROPOLIS 8" HARD DISK DRIVE with 

Power, S-100 controller 

9 Megabyte $3995 

27 Megabyte $4495 

45 Megabyte $4995 

TI994 $1050.00 

DISCOUNTS on EXIDY SORCERER, PET, most 
other systems, peripherals, and software. 

MICROCOMPUTERS, 
PERIPHERALS AND SOFTWARE 

1015 NAVARRO SAN ANTONIO. TEXAS 7B20S 

512/222 1427 



Circle 250 on inquiry card. 



Circle 251 on inquiry card. 



NOW 



Fastest 
Data Manager 



PET™ 



JINSAM™ 

• CUSTOM DATA FILES 

• CUSTOM REPORTS/LABELS 

• FAST/EASY/MENU DRIVEN 

• KEYED RANDOM ACCESS 

• MULTIPLE SEARCH KEYS 
. PRIVACY ACCESS CODES 

• WILD CARD SEARCH 

-ecify CBM 2040 or COMPU/THINK DIS* 



Package $ 1 50 USERS GUIDE ONLY $25 

Demo Tape $5 Disk $8 

Check or Money Order plus $2 Shipping 
(NY residents add 8% Sales Tax) 

- DEALER INQUIRIES WELCOMED - 

JINI MICRO-SYSTEMS, Inc. 

P.O. Box 274-B • Bronx, NY 10463 



BUSINESS SOFTWARE 




CP/M AND MODEL II COMPATIBLE 


NEWLY ENHANCED VERSIONS 


MEDICAL MGMT SYSTEMS 


. $495 


DENTAL MGMT SYSTEM 


$495 


REAL ESTATE MULTI-LIST 


$495 


INSURANCE AGENCY MGMT 


$495 


LEGAL TIME ACCOUNTING 


$495 


GENERAL LEDGER 


$495 


ACCOUNTS PAYABLE 


$495 


ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE 


$495 


PAYROLL PROCESSING 


$495 


INVENTORY MANAGEMENT 


$495 


WORD PROCESSING/NAD 


. $495 


DATABASE MANAGEMENT 


$495 


HIGH-SPEED UTILITY SORT 


. $300 


NEW! LATEST CBASIC-2 


. $ 99 


NEW' LATEST MBASIC 5.1 


$300 


NEW! MBASIC COMPILER 


$350 




* *CP/M 2 FOR MODEL II 


$170 


COMPLETE SOFTWARE CATALOG . . . 


. . . . 5 


COMPLETE HARDWARE GUIDE 


... 5 


UNIVAIR, INC. 314 426 1099 


10327 LAMBERT INTL AIRPORT 




ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI 63145 USA 




MASTER CHARGE/VISA CARDS O.K. 





Circle 252 on inquiry card. 



Circle 253 on inquiry card. 



DISBURSEMENTS & CASH RECEIPTS 

JOURNALS 

In stock & ready to go to work, ready to 

ship.. ..no waiting 

a.) Co-authored, debugged and used by a 
licensed, practicing CPA. 

b.) A copyrighted document balance routine 
provides for no-fault entries. 

c.) As many as 4 Gen. Ledger postings for 
each document, can all be different. 

d.) Document types supported by programs: 
DJ-1001 Cash/Checks/Payroll 
CJ-2001 Deposits/R.O.A/Credit Memo 

e.) Complete audit trails for analysis. 

f.) Concise, ready-to-use printouts. 

g.) No special training. Programs use live- 
cueing at every step. 

h.) Fully Documented, with listings, & 
supplied on 5W diskette, written in 
TRS-80 Basic. 

i.) Also available in MOD II format. 

j.) Total support-for 1-year from date-of- 
purchase. 

DISBURSEMENTS JOURNAL DJ-1001 $75.00 

CASH RECEIPTS JOURNAL CJ-2001 $75.00 
SPECIAL..BOTH PROGRAMS ONLY $120.00 

Complete software packages, and computer 

supplies at competitive prices. 

Checks O.K. S & A DATA SYSTEMS 

Master Charge/Visa P O BOX 39 

NO COD's Craig, CO 81625 

TOLL 
FREE 



NO CHARGE 1-800-854-2003 (ext 804) 
In Calif. 1-800-522-1 500 (ext 804) 



Circle 254 on inquiry card. 



Try to beat our prices! 



TELEVIDEOTVI-912 




Upper case and lower case; 15 baud rates: 75 
to 19,000 baud; dual intensity; 24 x 80-char. 
display, 12 x 10 resolution. Numeric pad. 
Programmable reversible video; aux . port; 
self-test mode; protect mode; block mode; 
tabbing; addressable cursor. Microprocessor 
controlled; programmable underline; line and 
character insert/delete. 
OU R PRICE ONLY $789 

OTHER VIDEO TERMINALS 

INTERTUBE II, List $995 . s . ONLY $799 

PER KIN-ELMER 550, List $997 .... $799 
with anti-glare screen, $1027 $829 

HAZELTINE 1400, List $850 $699 

1410, List $900 $749 

1420 $849 

1500, List $1225 $989 

1500 Kit, List $1125 $799 

1510, List $1395 $1089 

1520, List $1650 $1389 

ADDS R-20, List $995 $945 

R-100, List $1325 $1295 

LEAR SIEGLER ADM3A Kit $775 

ADM3A Assembled $849 

ADM31, List $1450 $1295 

ADM42, List $1795 $1595 

SOROC 120, List $995 $795 

IQ140, List $1495.- $1249 

PRINTERS 

ANADEX 80-col. dot matrix, $995 .. $895 

INTEGRAL DATA IP-125 NOW ONLY $689 

IP-125w/1210 option, $838 . . NOW $724 

IP-225 w/1210& 1250 op., List $988 $834 

IP-225 w/tractor, 1210, 1250, 1221 

(2K Buffer), 1241 (graphics) NOW $899 

I DS-440 Paper Tiger, List $995 $895 

w/graphics op., incl. buffer, $1194 . $1069 

CENTRONICS 

730-1 parallel interface, List $995 . 
779-1 , Friction Feed, List $1245 . , 
779-2 w/Tractor, List $1350 .... 
702-2 w/Tractor, VFU, List $2480 
703-2 w/Tractor, VFU, List $2975 



$849 
. 949 
1049 
1995 
2395 



NORTH STAR HORIZON 

NOW DOUBLE & QUAD DENSITY 

Complete w/12 edge connectors, 2 SIOs, 1 
PIO, and extra drive cable. Assem. & Tested. 

HORIZON 1 - 

32K,DD, List $2695 $2279 

32K,QD, List $2995 $2539 

HORIZON 2- 

32K,DD, List $3095 . $2619 

32K,QD, List $3595 $3049 

48K,DD, List $3590 $3039 

48K,QD, List $4090 ......... $3469 

64K,DD, List $3830 $3239 

64K,QD, List $4330 $3669 

FLOPPY DISK SYSTEMS 

MORROW THINKER TOYS® Discus 2D 

List $1149 OUR PRICE $979 

Discus 2D, dual-drive, List $1948 $1658 
Discus 2+2, A&T, List $1549 . . . . $1319 
Dual Discus 2+2, A&T, List $2748 . $2335 

MICROMATION Megabox, double-density w/ 
8" drives, 1 -megabyte, List $2295 . $1949 
2-megabyte, List $3095 $2629 

MICROPOLIS 1041 MacroF loppy® in 
enclosure (power source & regulator board 

required), List $695 $625 

1042 MacroF loppy w/case & AC P.S. . $709 
1053 Dual MetaFloppy®, List $1895 . $1695 

VIDEO BOARDS 

SD COMPUTER VDB-8024 Video 

Display Bd, I/O mapped, kit $370 . . $299 

Assembled, List $470 $399 

VECTOR GRAPHICS Flashwriter® 

FW-64 memory mapped, A&T, $270 $229 

FW-80u/lc 80-char. line, A&T, $368 . $313 

XITEX SCT-100K, Kit . . , ONLY $154.95 
SCT-100A Assembled $174.95 

SSM VB1B Memory Mapped Video 

Interface, 16x64, Kit, List $155 ... $132 

Assembled & Tested, List $210. ... $178 

SSM VB2 I/O Mapped Video Interface 

Kit, List $169 $144 

Assembled & Tested, List $234 .... $199 

INTER SYSTEMS {formerly Ithaca Audio) 
Memory Mapped Video Board, 16x64 
Assembled & Tested, List $165 ... . $149 



CONVERT YOUR SELECTRIC 
TO A COMPUTER PRINTER! 

Power supply & electronics, A&T You make 
only a simple solenoid installation (or have 
the factory do it). Manufactured by ESCON. 
S-100 Interface Version, List $496 . $445 
Universal Types: 

Parallel - (Centronics format, for TRS-80, 
Sorcerer, Apple, etc.) List $525 . . . $469 
IEEE-488 (for PET), List $560 . . . $499 
RS232 Standard Serial, List $549 . $489 
TRS 80 Cable $27 



CPU BOARDS 

NORTH STAR Z80A Processor Board 

A&T (ZPB-A/A), List $299 $254 

CROMEMCO 4MHz CPU Card 

A&T{ZPU-W), List $395 $335 

CROMEMCO 4 MHz Single Card Computer 

A&T, List $450 $382 

VECTOR GRAPHIC Z-80 CPU Board 

A&T, List $247 $210 

ITHACA AUDIO Z-80 CPU Board, 4 MHz 

A&T, List $205 . . . $179 

2 MHz, A&T, List $175 $155 

DELTA Z-80 CPU with I/O, -A&T . . . $239 

SD Single Card Computer (SBC-100) 

^Kit, List $295 $250 

A&T, List $350 $298 



MEMORY BOARDS 

NORTH STAR 16K Dynamic RAM Board, 
A&T (RAM-16-A/A), List $499 ... $420 
32K A&T (RAM-32/A), List $739 . . $620 

CROMEMCO RAM Card w/bank select, A&T 

16K (16KZ-WL List $595 $495 

64K (64KZ-W), List $1795 ..... $1485 
MEASUREMENT SYSTEMS & CONTROLS 
Guaranteed performance, incl. labor/parts 1 yr 
DM6400 64K Board w/all 64K, $795 $659 
DM4800 with 48K, List $695 ... $589 
DM3200 with 32K, List $595 . . . $509 
DM1600 with 16K, List $495 . . . $429 
DM0000 with no RAM, $395 . . . . $349 
THE DMB SERIES - 
DMB6400 64K Board w/all 64K . , $859 

DMB4800 with 48K $789 

DMB3200 with 32K $709 

MORROW SuperRAM, A&T 
16K Static Board, 4 MHz or 

2 MHz, List $349 $299 

32K Static Board, 4 MHz, List $699 . $629 

VECTOR GRAPHIC, 8K Static, A&T . $239 

48K Dynamic Board, List $799 . . . $679 

SDExpandoRAMw/o RAMS, List $220 $187 

INTER SYSTEMS (formerly Ithaca Audio) 
8K Static 250ns, A&T, List $195 . .. $176 



FLOPPY DISK 
CONTROLLER BOARDS 

MORROW Disk Jockey 1, A&T ($213) . $189 

Disk Jockey 2D, A&T, List $479 . . . $429 

SD Versafloppy I , A&T, List $335 . . . $233 

Versaf loppy II, DD Kit, List $430 . . $360 

Versafloppy 1 1 , DD, A&T, List $350 . $278 

DELTA double density A&T ($385) . $345 

CONDUCTOR, double density A&T . . $269 

ITHACA AUDIO, A&T, List $175 . . . $155 

MICROMATION Doubler, double density 

Controller Board, A&T, List $495 $399 

TARBELL Floppy Disk Interface, Kit . $169 

double density, Kit, List $325 .... $295 

double density, A&T, List $425 . . . $380 



SHIPPING, HANDLING & INSURANCE - Add $2 for boards, $5 for Se/ectric converter, $7.50 for Floppy Disk Systems, $15 for Horizons. Shipped 
freight collect: Cromemco Systems, Centronics, DEC, NEC, and T.I. printers. Contact us for shipping information on other terminals and printers. 
All prices subject to change and all offers subject to withdrawal without notice. Prices in this ad are for prepaid orders. Slightly higher prices prevail 
for other-than -prepaid orders, i.e., C.O.D., credit card, etc. 

—WRITE FOR FREE CATALOG - WWW 

Mini Micro Mart, lncri« 



161 8 James Street, Syracuse NY 13203 (315)422-4467 twx 71 0-541 -0431 



Circle 255 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 283 



7400 



SN7400N 

SN7401N 

SN7402N 

SN7403N 

SN7404N 

SN7405N 

SN7406N 

SN7407N 

SN7408N 

SN7409N 

SN7410N 

SN741 1N 

SN7412N 

SN7413N 

SN7414N 

SN7416N 

SN7417N 

SN7420N 

SN7421N 

SN7422N 

SN7423N 

SN7425N 

SN7426N 

SN7427N 

SN7429N 

SN7430N 

SN7432N 

SN7437N 

SN7438N 

SN7439N 

SN7440N 

SN7441N 

SN7442N 

SN7443N 

SN7444N 

SN7445N 

SN7446N 

SN7447N 

SN7448N 

SN7450N 

SN7451N 

SN7453N 

SN7454N 

SN7459N 

SN7460N 

SN7470N 

SN7472N 

SN7473N 

SN7474N 

SN747:>N 

SN7476N 

SN7479N 

SN7480N 

SN7481 N 

SN7482N 

SN7483N 

SN7485N 

SN7486N 

SN7489N 

SN7490N 

SN7491N 

SN7492N 

SN7493N 

SN7494N 

SN7495N 

SN7496N 

SN7497N 

SN74100N 

SN74107N 

SN74109NI 

SN74116N 

SN74121N 

SN74122N 



SN74123N 
SN74125N 
SN74126N 
SN74128N 
SN74132N 
SN74136N 
5N74139N 
SN74141N 
SN74142N 
SN74143N 
SN74144N 
SN74145N 
SN74147N 
SN74148N 
SN74150N 
SN74151N 
SN74152N 
SN74153N 
SN74154N 
SN74155N 
SN74156N 
SN74157N 
SN74158N 
SN74160N 
SN74161N 
SN74162N 
SN74163N 
SN74164N 
SN74165N 
SN74166N 
SN74167N 
SN74170N 
SN74172N 
SN74173N 
SN74174N 
SN74175IM 
SN74176N 
SN74177N 
SN74179N 
SN74180N 
SN74181N 
SN74182N 
SN74184N 
SN74185N 
SN74186N 
SN74188N 
SN7419QN 
SN74191N 
SN74192N 
SN74193N 
SN74194N 
SN74195N 
SN74196N 
SN74197N 
SN74198N 
SN74199N 
SN74221N 
SN74251N 
SN74273N 
SN74279N 
SN74283N 
SN74284N 
SN74285N 
SN74290N 
SN74298N 
SN74365N 
SN74366N 
SN74367N 
SN74368N 
SN74390N 
SN74393N 
SN74490N 



CD4000 
CD4001 
CD4002 
CD4006 
CD4007 
CD4008 
CD4009 
CD4010 
CD401 1 
CD4012 
CD4013 
CD4014 
CD4015 
CD4016 
CD4017 
CD4018 
CD4019 
CD4020 
CD4021 
CO4022 
CD4023 
CD4024 
CD4025 
CD4027 
CD4028 
CD4029 
CD4030 
CD4031 
CD4032 
CD4034 
CD4035 
CD4037 
CD4040 
CD4041 
CD4042 
CD4043 
CD4044 
CD4046 
CD4047 
CD4048 
CD4049 
CD4050 
CD4051 
CD4052 
CD4053 
CD4055 
CD4056 
CD4059 
CD4060 
CD4066 
CD4069 
CD4070 
CD4071 
CD4072 
CD4073 
CD4075 
CD4076 
CD4077 
CD4078 
CD4081 
CD4082 
CD4085 
CD4089 



2.95 
9.95 
1 39 



CMOS 



CD4093 

CD4094 

C04098 

CD4099 

MC 14408 

MC 14409 

MC14410 

MC14412 

MC14415 

MC14419 

CD4501 

CD4502 

CD4503 

CD4505 

CD4506 

CD4507 

CD4508 

CD4510 

CD4511 

CD4512 

CD4515 

CD4516 

CD4518 

CD4520 

CD4555 

CD4556 

CD4566 

74C00 

74C02 

74C04 

74C08 

74C10 

74C14 

74C20 

74C30 

74C32 

74C42 

74C4S 

74C73 

74C74 

74C85 



74C107 

74C151 

74C154 

74C157 

74C160 

74CC161 

74C163 

74C164 

74C173 

74C174 

74C175 

74C192 

74C193 

74C195 

74C922 

74C923 

MM80C95 

MM80C97 



2.95 
2.49 
2.25 
12.95 
12.95 
12.95 
12.95 



1.39 

1:39 

4.95 



249 
3.50. 
2 10 
2.39 
2.30 
2.39 
2.39 
2.59 
2.75 
2.75 
2.39 
2.39 
2.39 



74LS00 



74LS0ON 

74LS01N 

74LS02N 

74LS03N 

74LS04N 

74LS05N 

74LS08N 

74LS09N 

74LS10N 

74LS11N 

74LS12N 

74LS13N 

74LS14N 

74LS15N 

74LS20M 

74LS21N 

74LS22N 

74LS26N 

74LS27N 

74LS28N 

74LS30N 

74LS32N ' 

74LS37N 

74LS38N 

74LS40N 

74LS42N 

74LS47N 

74LS48N 

74LS51 N 

74LS54N 

74LS55N 

74LS73N 

74LS74N 

74LS75N 

74LS76N 

74LS78N 

74LS83AN 

74LS85N 

74LS86N 

74LS90N 

74LS92N 

74LS93N 

74LS95N 

74LS96N 

74LS107N 

74LS109N 

74LS112N 

74LS113N 

74LS114N 

74LS122N 

74LS123N 

74LS124N 

74LS125N 

74LS126N 

74LS132N 

74LS136N 

74LS138N 

74LS139N 

74LS145N 

74LS148N 

74LS151N 

74LS153N 

74LS154N 

74LS155N 

74LS156N 

74LS157N 

74LS158N 

74LS160N 

74LS161N 

74LS162N 

74LS163N 



74LS164N 
74LS16SN 
74LS166N 
74LS168N 
74LS169N 
74LS170N 
74LS173N 
74LS174N 
74LS175N 
74LS181N 
74LS190N 
74LS191N 
74LS192N 
74LS193N 
74LS194N 
74LS195N 
74LS196N 
74LS197N 
74LS221N 
74LS240N 
74LS241N 
74LS242N 
74LS243N 
74LS244N 
74LS245N 
74LS247N 
74LS248N 
74LS249N 
74LS251N 
74LS253N 
74LS257N 
74LS258N 
74LS259N 
74LS260N 
74LS261N 
74LS266N 
74LS273N 
74LS275N 
74LS279N 
74LS283N 
74LS290N 
74LS293N 
74LS295N 
74LS298N 
74LS324N 
74LS347N 
74LS348N 
74LS352N 
74LS353N 
74LS363N 
74LS365N 
74LS366IM 
74LS367N 
74LS368N 
74LS373N 
74LS374N 
74LS375N 
74LS377N 
74LS385N 
74LS386N 
74LS390N 
74LS393N 
74LS395IM 
74LS399N 
74LS424N 
74LS668N 
74LS670N 
81LS95N 
81LS96N 
81LS97N 
81LS98N 




299 
2.49 
2.29 
2.29 
295 
8.95 



1.29 

1 75 
1.95 



LINEAR 



78H05 

78M06 1 49 

78M.G. 1.49 

LM105H .99 

LM108AH 2.95 

LM300H .79 

LM301CN/H .35 

LM304H 

LM305H 

LM306H 

LM307CN/H .29 

LM308CN/H .98 

LM309K 1.49 

LM310CN 125 

LM31 1D/CN/H .98 

LM312H 175 

LM317T 2.75 

LM318CN/H 1.49 

LM319N/H 1.25 

LM320K-XX* 1.49 

LM320T-XX* 

LM320H-XX* 

LM323K 

LM324N 

LM339N 

LM340K-XX- 

LM340T-XX* 

LM340H-XX- 

LM344H 

LM348N 

LM358CN 

LM360N 

LM372N 

LM377N 

LM377N 

LM380CN/N 

LM381N 



5.95 



3.25 



1 25 



4.95 



1.49 



LM3B3T 

LM386N 

LM387N 

LM390N 

NE531V/T 

NE555V 

NE556N 

NES61T 

NE562B 

NE565N/H 

NE566H/V 

NE567V/H 

NE592N 

LM702H 

LM709N/H 

LM710N/H 

LM711N/H 

LM715N 

LM723N/H 

LM733N/H 

LM739N 

LM741CN/H 

LM741CN-14 

LM747N/H 

LM748N/H 

LM760CN 

LM1310N 



LM1414N 190 

LM1458CN/N .49 

MC1488N 149 

MC1489N 

LM1496N 

LM1556N 

LM1800N 

LM1820N 

LM1850N 

LM1889N 

LM2111N 

LM2900N 

LM2901N 

LM2917N 

CA3013T 

CA3018T 

CA3021T 

CA3023T 

CA3035T 

CA3039T 

CA3046T 

LM3053N 

CA3059N 

CA3060N 

CA3062N 

LM3065N 

CA308ON 

CA3081N 

CA3082N 

CA3083N 

CA3086N 

CA3089N 

CA3096N 

CA3097N 

CA3130T 

CA3140T 

CA3146N 

CA3160T 

CA3190N 

CA3401N 

MC3423N 

MC3460N 
SQ3524N 
CA3600N 

LM39O0N 

LM3905N 

LM3909N 

RC4131N 

RC4136N 

RC4151N 

RC4194 

RC4 1 95 

ULN2001 

ULN2003 

SN75450N 

SN75451N 

SN75452N 

SN75453N 

SN75454N 

SN75491N 

SN75492N 

SN75493N 

SN75494N 



1.49 



2.50 
2.95 
2.29 
1.99 
3.49 
2.99 
2.75 



3.25 
3.25 
4.95 
1.49 
1,29 



1.50 



RETAIL STORES OPEN MON-SAT 
STORE 1310"B" E. Edinger STORE 674 El Ca 



AEWVNCED 

COMPUTER 
PRODUCTS 



MR B51-5V, 40 tracks 279 00 

Shugart SA400-5V 35 tracks 295.00 

Shugart 800/801 R 8" 475.00 

Siemens Shugart Compatible Model 

120-BD 429.00 

PERSCI Model 277 Dual 1195.00 

WANGO/SIEMENS 5 V Drive 290.00 

MPI B52 5V Dual 395.00 

WANGO/SIEMENS 282 Dual 5V . . . . 395 00 
WANGO/SIEMENS 82. . 290 00 




HICKOK 
LX303 
$69.95 



.5%, 3'/? digit 19 
Range DVM. IV LCD displays 
runs 200 hrs on 1 battery. 10 Meg 
Ohm Input. 1 yr. guarantee, made in 
U.SA, test leads included. 



514.95 
$35.00 
$14.95 



RC-3 1 1 5V AC Adapter 

CC-3 Deluie Padded Vinyl Carrying Case 
VP-10 XI DCV Probe Adapter/ 

Protector 10 Ku 

VP-40 40 Kv DC Probe 

CS-1 10 Amp Current Shunt 



JoP'Jexas Instruments 
CalculatorOtscount Prices 

TI30 SP 1795 

Tl 50 . . 39.95 

TI55 35.95 

Tl 57 54.95 

Tl 58C 97.95 

TI59 219.95 

Tl PC 100C 146.95 

TM035 1595 

TM750 19 95 

Tl 5025 69.95 

Tl 5040 79 95 

Tl Data Card 26.95 

Tl Data Chron 37.95 

Tl Business Analyst II 42.95 

Tl Programmer 48.95 

Tl MBA 57.95 

Tl Business Card , NEW 34.95 

Tl Speak & Spell 64.95 

TIDataman 19.95 

Tl Spelling B 27.95 

Tl Ul' Professor 12.95 

Tl Vowel Power 12.95 

Tl Super Stumpers 4. 5, 6 12.95 

Tl Super Stumpers 7. 8 12.95 

MONITORS 

Sanyo 9" SI 69.95 

Sanyo 15".. 279.00 

Leedex 12" 139.95 

Motorola 1 2", High Resolution, 

22 MHz, OEM Model 

#M3000-340 21 9.00 

Zenith 1 3" Color 499.00 

MGA 1 3" Color TV 349.00 



TRS-80/APPLE 

MEMORY EXPANSION KITS 

4116's 

16K (200/250 ns.) 

8 pes. for $62.95 
w/instructions S jumpers. 

Call ForVolurne Pricing 



HAZELTINE 
TERMINALS 

Model 1400 S77500 Model1500. $108500 

Model 1410 . $82500 Model 1510 $1245.00 
Model 1420 $945 00 Model 1520 $1495.00 



Continental Specialties 



• Apple II. 16K 

or Apple II. Plus $990 



Modal 300 1 Digital Capacitance Meter 


275.00 


MmM 333 Tn-Mode Comparator 


295.00 


Model LM-3 40-channel Logic Monitor 


58500 


Modal LM-J Logic Monitor 


. 60.00 


Model LM-Z Logic Monitor 


. 147.00 


Model 2001 Sweepable Function Generator 


18600 


Model 5001 Universal Counter-Timer 


360 00 


Model 600 1 650 MHz Frequency Counter . 


385 00 


MAM DO 100 MHz Portable Frequency Counter 




14900 


PS-500 500 MHz Decade Prescaler 


70.00 


MM-50 50 MHz Handheld Frequency Counter 




. 77.00 


MW-550 550 MHz Handheld Frequency Cour 




16500 


Model 4001 Pulse Generator 


835.00 


Model OP-1 Digital Pulser 


83.00 


Logic Probes 




Model LP-1 Digital Logic Probe . 


50.00 


Model LP-2 Economy Logic Probe 


. 28.00 


Medal LP-3 High Speed Logic Probe 


77.00 


Medal LPK-1 Logic Probe Kit 


2195 


Logic Probe Accessories 


.. 21 


Modal ITC- 1 . ITC-2 Logical Analysis Kits 


220/250 



1 6K Apple Upgrade Kit S62.95 



Hi-Speed Serial I/O 
Centronics Printer I/O 
Applesoft II Firmware 
Apple Clock 
Intro! X- 10 System 
Introl X-10 Controller 
Alf Music Synthesizer 
16 Ch Analog Input 
2 Ch Analog Output. 
1 3-Key Keypad 
Visi-Calc 



174.95 
189 95 
26995 
1 79 95 
259.95 
249.95 
164 95 
11995 
149 95 



DS65 Digi-Sector 
Apple Graphics Tablet. 
DC Hayes Modem II 
Disk II w/Controller . 
Disk II . 

Pascal Lang System 
Parallel Printer Card 
Communications Card 
Business Software Pkg 
Corvus 1 Megabyte Drive 

. 4625.00 



. $349.00 
79500 
34995 
47500 
575.00 
47500 
165.00 
21000 
625.00 



Integer ROM Card S1 75 00 

Proto Card 21 95 

M & R Modulator 29.95 

Sanyo Cassette 54 95 

1SK Upgrade Kit 62 95 

Apple Radio Car 15900 

8" Floppy Controller 350 00 

Heuristics Speechlab 17900 

Romplus + 169 00 

Supertalker . . 279.00 

Cashier 250 00 



A ATARI 800 & 400 

Personal Computer System 



ATARI 800 
ATARI 400 



$899.00 
$499.00 



ATARI 800 Includes: Computer Console, BASIC Lang. Cartridge. Education 
System Master Cartridge, BASIC Language Programming Manual, 800 Operator's 
Manual w/Notebook, Atari 410 Program Recorder, 8K RAM Module, Power 
Supply, TV Switch Box. 



599 00 US History 
4 99 DO US Government 
6900 



Skiiis 



Spelling 

Baste Electrioly 
Basic Algebra 



35 00 
3500 
3500 



Education System Master CartnrJge 
Atari BASIC 

Assembler Oebug 



Bas>c Sociology 
Counseling Pri 
Principles of Accounting 

Great Classics (English! 
Business Commii!-,i,-..iii,-in- 



Erfearve wwmg 
Auto Mechanics 
Principles 01 Economics 



3500 
3500 
3500 
3S00 
35 00 
35 00 
35 00 
35 00 
35 00 



Driving Conl roller Pan 




Texas Instruments 

99/4 PERSONAL COMPUTER 

Superior Color, Music, Sound and Graphics -and a 
^j^Powerfui Extended Basic -All Built In. 

$1099.00 



Cs. commodore 
PET LO A w s AS $775.00 



2001 -32K8 (reg) 

2021 80-Col Printer 

2022 80-Col Dot Manx PrinW 



7 7 c ) 00 ?0 22 80- C o( Dot M at n x Printer 

975 00 2023 80-Col Plain Paper Pnnte 

975 00 2040 Dual Mini Disk I)me 

1 250 00 Pet lo IEEE Cable 

1250 00 IEEE to IEEE CaDle 

■ • i i i r, : ,i . . 
99500 



39.95 
4995 
95 00 




ft ImcoM 




» *^J $174.95 
It!. 41 $154.95 



An onboard navigational computer tor automobiles, trucks, and 
recreational vehicles Features cruise control, luel manage- 
ment system, trip computer, multifundiwwd quartz crystal 
time counter, plus many other I unctions 



HAND HELD 
COMPUTER SPORTS GAMES 



$18.95ev 




ELECTRONIC ELECTRONIC 

FOOTBALL SOCCER 



LANGUAGE TRANSLATOR 



CRAIG ift o qc 

23.95 

Phonetics Spanish, French, German, Italian, Japanese 

• A Personal Interpreter When You Travel 

• A Valuable Learning Aid When You Study 

• A Spelling and Phonetic Pronunciation Guide. 

• A Calculator and Metric Converter 

• Stores Approximately 5.000 Words and Phrases 

• References Three Languages At Once 



BSR System X • 10 

Control Lights and Household Appliances, Protect 
your family with fingertip convenience 

r er 79.95 

Includes command console, appliance 
module and two large modules 

Ultrasonic Commiml 

Module with 59-95 

Cordless controller 

Lamp, wall switch 
and appliance 
modules 

14.95 ea. 




Qq6 



SINGLE BOARD COMPUTER SELECTION GUIDE 



BOARD 

KIM-1 
SYM-1 

Cromemco 
SD-SBC1 00 
AIM 65 
Cosmac Vip 



PROCESSOR 

6502 
6502 

Z80 

Z80 
6502 

1802 



ACP PRICE 

169,00 
249.00 
409.00 
239.00 
375.00 
249.00 



ENCLOSURE 

Add 29,95 

Add 39.95 

N/A 

N/A 

Add 49.95 

Inc. 



#1 Santa Ana, CA 92705 

Showrooms, Retail, Warehouse 



74 El Camino Real 
Tustin, CA 92680 
zing in Systems 



P.O. Box 1 7329 Irvine, Calif. 9271 3 
Direct Order Lines: (714) 558-8813 
(800) 854-8230 



FOR INTERNATIONAL ORDERS: 
1401 S. Borchard (714)953-0604 
Santa Ana, CA 92705 TWX: 91 0-595-1565 



284 BYTE April 1980 



Circle 256 on inquiry card. 



X ^-COMPUTER 



FIRST TQ OFFER PRIME PRODUCTS TO THE HOBBYIST AT FAIR PRICES! 
1 . PrOVen Quality Factory tested products only. 

2. Guaranteed Satisfaction 

3. Over $1,000,000.00 Inventory 
1980 CATALOG NOW AVAILABLE. 

Send $2.00 for your copy of the most complete catalog of computer products. 
A must for the serious computer user. 



STATICX I RAM BOARDS 



*Si/ 



&>-* 



• S-10Q 32K (uses 2 1 
ASSEMBLED 
450ns 499.00 
250ns. 539.00 
Bare Board 49.95 
Bare Boa rd w/all parts less mem. 99.95 



14) 

Kit J'/J 

450ns 469.00 
250ns. 499.00 



•Sil 



w Power 



(S-1 00 Compatible) 



• Low Power 

• 2 MHz or 4 MHz 

• 4K Bank Addressable 

• Extended Memory Management 

• Assembled & Tested 
2 MHz. $250.00 
4 MHz. $265.00 

•mam 

450 ns. 149.95 KIT 450ns. 125.95 
250ns 169.95 250ns 149.95 

Bare PC Board w/Data $21.95 

"Special Offer'' Buy (4) 8K 450ns. Kits $1 1 7.00 



ipatiDiej -Bl 

>MO^- 

igement 



TRS-80 ADD-ON DISK 

• VISTA V-80 MINIDISK 

# 23% More Storage 
Capacity ■ 40 Tracks 

* 40 track patch free 

• New Double Density 
Expansion Module S239.00. 
2 Drive Cable Add $29.95 
4 Drive Cable Add $39.95 I 395.00 } 
Dual Drive in Single 

Cabinet $~~ 



57 



rn^mm 



S-1O0 ADD-ON MINI-DISK 

• VISTA V-200 Minifloppy Add-on 
System/Horizon, S-1 00, etc. 

• 204K Byte Capacity 

• Double Density Drive 

• CP/M & Basic "E" 

• Double Density Controller 

• Case and Power Supply 

• Assembled & Tested Ready to Plug In 

• New Dual Exidy Add-on only $1 199.00 



S-1 00 ADD-ON DISK ^ 

SUBSYSTEM /v-iooo\ 

• VISTA V-1 000 Floppy Disk U 699.00/ 
Subsystem \^ J/& 

* (2)Shugart8"DiskDrives ^ rf*SS\io 

* Case with Fan & Power Supply %<%& 

* VISTA Floppy Disk Controller Card * N 

• CP/M Disk Operating System 

• Fully Factory Assembled & Tested 



LOW-COST ADD-ON DISK 
SUBSYSTEM KIT 

• {2) 8" Drtves 

• VISTA Floppy Controller / , 
Card ! ' ' 

• Power Supply and Inter- 
face Cable 

• CP/M Disk Operating System 

• Box of 10 Diskettes 



IMS STATIC RAM BOARDS #& 

it Memory Mapping -k Low Power* 

* Phantom • Assembled S tested 

Recommended by Alphamicrosystems 

250 ns. 450 ns. 

8K Static $209.00 $1 89.00 

16K Static $449,00 $399.00 

32 K Static $729.00 $629.00 



ANADEX PRINTER new apple version 

Model DP-8000 compact, impact, parallel or 
serial. Sprocket feed, 80 cols, 
84 lines/min. T bi-directional. 

New only $875.00 

DP-8000AP (for Apple)$875.00 



SD SYSTEMS BOARDS 

KIT ASSEM 

SBC 100 Single Board Compute* 12MHz) 1265 00 $ 349 00 

SBC 200 Single Board Computer (4MHz) 299 00 399 00 

Z80 Starter System 319.00 449.00 

VDB 8024 Video Display Board 335 00 459.00 

Versa-Floppy II 32500 42900 

Expando PROM 115 00 225 00 

SD 1 00 Computer System w/64K - 6995 QO 

SD20O Computet System W64K - 7 995 00 



APPLE/EXIDY/EXPANDO 
TRS 80 16K-UPGRADE KIT 



* 16K with Jumpers S Instructions 

for either Level I or Level II $62.95 

* 16K for Apple II Upgrade $62.95 

* Special: TRS80 Schematic $ 4.95 

* Expansion Interface Schematic . . $ 4.95 

* Expansion Interface Connector. . . 7.95 



EXPANDORAM II MEMORY KITS 

* Barrk Selectable • Uses 41 16 200 ns. 

* Write Protect * Power 8VDC, ±16VDC 

* Phantom • Up to 4 MHz 
Expando64Kit{4116) 

16K $290.00 48K $444.00 

32K $365.00 64K $519.00 



INDUSTRIAL SELECTRIC 
PRINTER 

For TRS-80 $1 299.00 

Serial I/O 1299.00 

Refinished, with warranty. 



TASA touch activated solid 
state KEYBOARD 

• Full 128 position 8-bit 
ASCII 

3 color code, 55 
positions 
Immune to static charge 

• Low power 
Onlw ;iiiiii 79 i 9^Optiona^tanc^^^£O0 

UV "Eprom" Eraser 

Model UVS-11E $69,95 

Holds 4 Eprom's at a time. 

Backed by 45 years 

experience. 

Model S-52T. . . $265.00 

_=rofessionaMndustna^Mode^^^^^^^^^^ 

TARBELL FLOPPY INTERFACE 

* Z80/8080 S 100 Compatible * Uses CPM 
Double Density Kit 310.00 

Assembled 415.00 

Standard Floppy Controller Kit 1 79 95 

Assembled (Specify Floppy) 259 00 

Note: Fo' CPM Add $70.00 Doc u menial ion Add $2000 

Vista Double Density 5V Controller Assem.. . . $299.00 

SD Versa Floppy Kit II Assembled S325./S429. 

Tarbel Cassette I/O Kit $115.00 

Sale* 1771-01 Floppy Chip .$24.95* 1 791 -01. .$36.95 
VISTA Floppy Controller 8" (Shugart Comp.) . . $259 95 




NEW CENTRONICS 730-1 PRINTER 

s^ZZirwTi^ Uses any paper roll, fanfold, 
f WOW N single sheets, 96 character 
V $895.00/ ASCII, 7 x 7 dot matrix, 50 

^*-ZZ-~*S CPS. RS232 or parallel I/O 

* On board 2708 * 2708 included <450ns.) 

# Power on jump * completely socketed 

• Z-80 Assembled and Tested $1 85.00 

e Z-80 Kit $ 1 29.95 

• Z-80 Bare PC Board $ 34.95 

* For 4MH2 Speed Add S15.00 

8080A Kit S 99.95 

8080A Assembled $1 49.95 



S-1 00 MOTHERBOARD SPECIAL 

8 slot expandable w/9 conn. 

reg $69.95 NOW S52 95 



SIEMEN'S FLOPPY SALE 



> Special buy while 
supply lasts. 



• 8" Drive with Double- SHUGART 



Density 
» 90 Day Warranty 




ACOUSTIC MODEM 

NOVATION CAT™ 

0-300 Baud 

Bell 103 

Answer, Originate $179.95 

ACOUSTIC COUPLER SPECIAL 

AJ MODEL A30 
SPECIAL PURCHASE 
OF SURPLUS UNITS 
AVAILABILITY LIMITED $29.95 



MOTOROLA EXORCISER COMPATIBLE 

9600 MPU Module w/6802 CPU $495.00 

9601 16 Slot Mother Board 175.00 

9602 Card Cage (1 9" Retma Rack Mount) . .75 00 

9603 8 Slot Mother Board 1 00.00 

9604 Swttch mode System Power Supply ... 250.00 

9610 Utility Prototyping Board 36-00 

9616 Quad 8K Eprom Module CALL 

9620 1 6 Channel Parallel I/O Module .... 295.00 
9622 Serial/Parallel I/O Combo CALL 

9626 8K Static RAM Module 295.00 

9627 1 6K Static 450ns 495.00 

9630 Card Extender 68.00 

9640 Multiple Programmable Timer 

(24 Timers) 395.00 

9650 8 Channel Duplex Serial I/O 395.00 

96103 32/32 I/O Module 275 00 

96702 32 Point Reed Relay Module 350.00 



9620-0 $45.00 9603-0 27.00 

9626-0 45.00 9600 55.00 

96500 45.00 96103 55.00 

9601-0 50 00 96702 55.00 

Also AMI EVK System in Stock 



DATA BOOKS • COMPUTER BOOKS 

I960 IC Master .. 59.95 Intel MCS 80 Manual 

NSC TTL Data 3 95 Intel MCS 40 Manual 

NSC Linear 4 95 AMD 8080A Manual. 

NSC Linear App Notes II 3 95 AMD Schottky Databook 

NSC CMOS 3 .95 AMI MOS/LSI Data 

NSC Memory 3.95 Gl MOS/LSt Data 

Intel Databook ... . 4.95 Harris Analog Databook . 

Intel MCS 85 Manual . 7 50 Tl Linear Control Data 



Intro to Micros Vol 0. MP 7 75 

Intro to Micros Vol. I eSJ) 7 75 

80B0A Programming ... S*SQ 7 75 

6800 Programming 6"SQ 7 75 

Z80 Programming . 8*"5Q 7 75 

Vol II Some Real Microprocessors w/Binder 3OS0, 27 50 

Vol. Ill Some Real Support Devices w/B<nder 2T*«Q 18 50 

Intro to Micros Vol III TOSQ, 1 8 50 

SALE • DILITHIUM COMPUTER BOOKS > SALS 
Understanding Computers *96- 7 95 

8080Microcomputer Experiments TS-96. 1 1 95 

Beginning BASIC 'S-96. 8 95 

Beginners Glossary A Guide l»-9*. 5.95 

Peanut Butter A Jelly Guide lo Computers "T-9*. 6 95 

8080 Machine Language Programming T"9*. 6.95 

Home Computers Vol I Hardware ... T ,9 6- 6.95 
Home Computers Vol If Software . f*et 11.95 
Starship Simulator T-9*-. 6.95 



MICROPROCESSORS 

Z8001 16 bit to 8Mb $189.00 

28002 16bitto64K 149 00 

Z80 10.75 

Z80A 14 50 

F-8 (3850) 

2650 

CD1802 

8080A 

80B0A-4MHz 



18,98 
16 95 
13 95 
8 50 
19 95 



8008-1 
2901 



2901 A 

2903 4-bit Supers 

TMS 9900JL 

CP1600 

6502 

6502A 

IM6100 . 

6800r32OMHz" 

6802P 

8035 . 

8755 

8748 



29 95 
49 95 
39 95 
11 50 
16 95 
2995 
.11.75 
19 95 
1 7 96 
19 95 
4995 
69.95 
6495 
69 95 



8086 

ADVANCED SUPPORT 

AM9511 Anth. Processor 175.00 

9512 Anth Processor 175.00 

9513 Umv Timing 79 95 
AM9S1 7 DMA Controller 18 95 
AM9519UniversaUnterrupt. 18 95 

Z-SO SUPPORT CHIPS 



Z80-PIO 

280A-PIO 

Z80-CTC 

Z80A-CTC 

Z60-DMA 

2B0A-DMA 



2 5 MHz 
4 MHz.. 
2 5 MHz 
4 MHz. 
2 5MH; 
MHz 



Z80-SIO/G 2 5 MHz 

ZnOA J,iO/0 4.0 MHZ 

Z80-SIO/1 2 5 MHz 

Z80A-SIO/1 4.0 MHz 

Z80-SIO/2 2.5 MHz 

Z80-SIO/2 4 MHz 



.8 75 
. 12.95 
.8.75 
12 95 
29 95 
36.95 
3595 
39 40 
35 95 
3940 
35.95 
39 40 



3i r iS<pi56 I/O 
8755 I/O with Eprom .. 
8202 Dyn Ram Cont 
8205/74S 138 Decoder 

8212 8 bit l/o 

8214 Priority Int 

8216 Bus Driver . 
8224 Dock Gen. . . 

8224-4 (4MHz) 

8226 Bus Driver 
8T26 Bus Driver 
8228 Sys Control 
8238 Sys Com.. 
8251 Prog. I/O 

*_•", • -.• r,n,,.r 

8255 Prog. I/O . . . . 

8257 Prog DMA 

8259 Prog .Int i /.so 

8275 CRT Controller 59.95 

8279 Prog Keyboard 18.95 

6800 SUPPORT CHIPS 

6810 128x8Ram 4.75 

6820 PIA 5 95 

6821 PIA 6.50 

6828 Priority Int 9.95 

6834-1 512 x 8 Eprom 16.95 

6845/HD46505 CRT Conl 

6847 Color CRT 

6850 ACIA 

6852 Serial Adapter 



6862 Modulator . . 
6871 A 1 OMHzOSC 
6875 



4995 
5.95 
5 95 

10.95 
11 95 



1802 SUPPORT CHIPS 

1821 SCD 2K RAM 25 00 

1822 SCD 256 * 4 RAM 16.95 
1 824 CD 32 x 8 RAM 9.95 



6502 SUPPORT CHIPS 

6520 PIA 7 50 

6522 Mult 11.95 

6530-002,003.004.005 18 95 

6532 19 95 



PROMS 

2708 450 ns 

2708-6 650 ns. 

1702A 

2732 . 



495 
7495 
29 95 
2995 

29.95 
13.95 
14 95 



2716-5V 

2716-5V. 12V .. 

2758-5V 

5203AO 

5204AO 

IM 5610 

SALE 8223 32 x 8 . . . . 

82S115 512 x8(TS) 

62S123 32x 8 . .. 

82S126 256x4 

825129 256x4(TS) 

825130 512 x 4 (OC) 



82S131 14B5 

82S137 14.95 

NOTE: WE PROGRAM PROMS 

CHARACTER GEN. 

2513-001 (5V> Upper 9.50 

2513-005 |5V) Lower. 10.95 

2513-ADM3[5V) Lower 14.95 

MCM6571 1175 

MCM6571A 11.75 

MCM6574 14 50 

MCM6575 14 50 

U ARTS/BAUD RATE 

TR1602BI5V 12Vl 

AV51013I5V. 12V! 

AY51014A/!612l5-14Vi 

AV510I5A/1863I5VI 

TMS 601 1 r5V 12V) 

I M 6402 

IM6403 

2350 USRT 

167 1 B Astros 

SALETB1472B 

MCI 44 11 
4702 
WD 1941 
COM 5016 



4 95 
6 95 
6 95 

5.50. 



KEYBOARD ENCODERS 

AY5-2376 13 75 

AV5-360O 13 75 

HD0165 9 95 

74C922 9 95 

74C923 9 95 



STATIC RAMS 




1-24 


2599 


100 


21 L02 450ns 


1 30 


1 25 


99 


21 L02 250ns 


1 59 


1 55 


1 15 


2111 


3 75 


3 65 


3 55 


2112-1 


295 


285 


2 65 


2101-1 


290 


2 70 


2 55 


2114L-250ns (40451 


895 


750 


6 50 


2114L-450n». (4045) 


5 50 


5 25 


4.75 


4044 250 ns 


8 95 


7 50 


6 90 


4044 450n* 


5 95 


5 95 


4,75 


EMM4200A 


975 


875 


7 95 


EMM4402 


7 95 


7 25 


6 25 


EMM 4804 


12 50 


11 50 


9 95 


S1Q1C-E 


7 95 


7 95 


7 25 


AM D9 140/41 


10 95 


1025 


9 25 


AMD9 130/31 


295 


11 95 


1025 


1101 


1 95 


1 75 


1 25 


P2 125/93425 i45ns i 


995 


835 


8 25 


6508 1 K x 1 CMOS 


795 


7 95 


7 25 


6518 IK x 1 CMOS 


7 95 


7 95 


7 25 


74StS9 64 bil Ram 


395 


3 25 


2 50 


2147 Low Power 4K Static 19 95 


18 95 


16 95 




DYNAMIC RAMS 


416/4116 16KI16 Pin) 






8 75 


Set Of 8 416s . 






62 95 


41 IS 8K (16 Pin) . . . 






6 95 


4050 4K x 1 (18 Pin) 






4 95 


4060 4K x 1 (22 Pin) 






4 95 


4096 4Kx 1 (16 Pin). 






3 95 


2104 4Kx 1 (16 Pin) 






4 75 


4027 4Kx 1 (16 Pin).... 






4 95 


5261 195 AAK "03 

5262 . 1 95 0«H\ 4008L 


1 95 
4.95 


5270 4 95 RAMS 6606 


7 95 


5280 4 95 ' l"' " 6604 
5290 12 45 $175.00 6O02 


495 

1 50 




CHARGE COUPLED DEVICES 


I6K CCD -Hirst limenrfere 




hiirj 460 


CCD 


I6K Memory [now you Car 






-■(XL! 






7 page Applica- 


(ion note supplied vulh each order Quantity 




$18.95 each (reg. 43.00) 





8080/8085 SUPPORT 



24.95 
6495 
34 95 
395 
.275 
. 5.25 
2 75 
2 95 
. 9 75 
395 
2 95 
5.50 
.5.50 
6 95 
. 16.95 
.650 
.16.95 



Lo-Pro Soldertail 



ZERO INSERTION FORCE 

16 Pin $5 50 24P,n S7 SO 40 Pin $10.25 

DISPLAYS/OPTO/LEDS 

* 7 SEGMENT * CALC * CLOCKS * 

DL 704 (CO, DL 707 (CA) 300" Red 99 

FNID 357 [CO .357" Red . ..99 

f-'ND --.CKJ.'503 (CC) 500" Red 99 

FNO 507-blO i.CA, bOO'Red ..99 

FN D 800/803 (CC) ,800" Red 1 .75 

r N D 80 1 .-a 1 (CA) 800" Red 1 75 

sAN ,i062 500" Green .. 1 15 

HP5082-7731 (CA) 300" Red 99 

9 Digit Bubble Mini Calc Display 99 

9 Digit Ranaple* Display ,400" 99 

9 Digit Fluorescent .300" . . 99 

MA1002A LED 12 hr Clock Module 10 95 
* HEX DISPLAYS * ENCODED DISPLAYS * 

HP 5082-7340 Red Hexidecimal . 15.95 

HP 5082-7300 Red Nymeric 14 95 

TIL 305 6 95 

TIL 308 Number w/Logic 8 95 

TIL 309 Number w/Logic. 8.95 

TIL 311 Hexadecimal 12.95 

MAN 2A 320" Red Alpha-Numeric 5 95 

MAN 10A 270" Red Alpha-Numeric 8 95 



IC SPECIAL PURCHASE 



LF 1 3508 JFET Analog Multi 8 bit 
ICM 7045 Precision Stopwatch 
ICM 7205 CMOS LED Stopwatch/Timer 
ICM 7207 Oscillator Controller .... 
ICM 7208 Seven Decade Counter 

ICM 7209 Clock Generator 

ICL7107 3V Digit A/D (LED) 

MC14433P 3Vi Digit A/D Converter 

ICL 821 1 Voliage Reference 

LM 390N Battery Op. Audio Amp 

LM 1800N PLL FM Sterero 

LM I820N AM Radio 

LM 1850N Ground Faull IC , 

LM 2900N Quad Amplifier 

LM 2901 N (HM) Quad Comparator 

LM 2917N Freg to VoltConv , 

AY -3-3550 4-»i digit DMM 

AY-5-3507 40MHz DVM 

MEM 4963 Mosfet Smoke Detector , 
27S08 32 x 8 Prom (IM 5600) 
G1 1 5M 6 channel Mosfet 
ULN 2003A 7 channel Driver 
10146 1K x 1 ECL Ram 
MCM 1 4505 64 bit Static Ram 



1 95 

3/ 1 00 
3/1.00 
3/1.00 
3/1 00 
2/1.00 
2/1 00 
2,'l 9^ 
24 95 



7*320,2^ 



2/1.9 



.50 



MK5014Calc .3/1 
74S89 3/1 99 

73H05K 6.95 

LM32JK 4 95 

MC1372 .. .8.95 



LM 377 . 
LM 387 
LM 3302 , 
LM 4558 
RC4136. 
RC4131.. 
COM 5027 
COM 5037 



PROCESSOR TECHNOLOGY 

NKRA Dynamic Memory Boards,. Assembled 

Without RAM. PROM, or Data Delay Lme. 

Up to 64K per Board $139.95 



FLOPPY DISKS 

CERTIFIED ! 40 TRACKS 
DOUBLE DENSITY 

8" 3740 IBM Compat $4,39 

5%" Hard 10 Sector S3 99 

5'/.-' Soft Sector 40 Track $3,99 

Vista computer diskettes by Verbatim Minimum 
order 10 For quantity purchases please call 



ALSO AVAILABLE 

DOUBLE SIDED 
DOUBLE DENSITY 



PAK OF 10 5''." 



$56 40 

$63 90 

holes and applicators , CALL 



FLOPPY DISK I/O 



1771-01 8" 8. Mm, floppy 
uPd372 Nee Floppy 
1781 Dual Floppy 
1791 Dual Floppy 
uPd 765 Floppy 



24 95 
4995 
23 95 
36 95 
49 95 



A/D CONVERTERS 

8700 8 bil Binary 13 5( 

8701 10 bit Binary 22 0( 
8703 8 bil TS 13 5C 
9400 Volt to Freq Conv 7 2! 
8750 3' i Digit BCD 13 9i 
1408L6 6b.t 3 9! 
1408LS8bit 5 9! 
DACOI D to A 5 9! 

TV CHIPS/SOUND 

AY3850O1 6 Games B/W 4 9: 

AY385 1 5 Color Convener 2 9! 

AY3H603 i Road. ace Game 8 9! 

AY38605-1 Warfare Game CALI 
AY38606- 1 Wipeout Game 9 5! 
AY38607-1 Shooting Gallery 8 9! 

AY38910 Sound Generator 12 9! 
SN76477TI Sound Generator 3 9! 
MM 53 20 --21 TV Synch Gen 9 9! 
MM5369 Prescaler 3 9! 

LM1889RF Modulator 3 9! 

MM5710O NSC Color TV 6 9! 

MM57 104 Clock Gen 3 7! 

RF Modulator w/Audio B 9! 

M&R Modulator 29 9! 

WAVEFORM GEN. 

8038 Function Gen 3 9! 

MC4024VCO 2 9! 

iM'i^.'-'CO 19! 

XR2206 Function Generator 5 2! 



SHIFT REGISTERS 

MM500H Dual25. 5C 

MMr-.iiStiN Dual 256 2 9£ 

MMS0W1N Dual 128 2.9f 

25 I OA Dual 100 19! 

2847 Quad 80 4 9£ 

3341 Dual 80 4 9 = 

UV. 40 . 9 FIFO 
3357 Quad 80 . 
9403 16x4 FIFO 
9408 10 Bil Sequent 



695 
24 95 
995 



CTSDIPSWITCHES 

CTS206-2 1 75 CTS206-7 1 75 

CTS206-4 175 CTS206-8 195 

CTS206-5 1 75 CTS206-9 1 95 

CTS206-6 175 CTS206-10 1 95 

CONNECTORS (GOLD) 

DB25P(RS232) 3 25 

DB25S Female 3 75 

Hood 1 25 

Sei w/HoOd. Sale $7 50 

22/44 W/W, S/T, KIM 2 95 

43/86 W/W, S/T, MOT 6 50 

50/100 S-1 00 Connector w.'w 4 95 

50/100 S-1 00 Connector s/t 3 95 



NAKED PC 


Z-80 CPU (Ithaca) 


$3495 


8080A CPU 


3495 


8K Static RAM (Logos) 2195 


16K Static. RAM (21 


A\ 29 95 


32K Static RAM |2H 


4) 49 95 


Floppy s/O fTarr.e.li 


39 9S 


Cassette I/O fTarbeil 


29 95 


8K Eprom (27081 


21 95 


1 702 Eprom Board 


30 OC 


2708/2716 Eprom (Ithaca) 34 95 


2708/27 16 Eprom (WMC) 30 00 


Realtime Clock 


34 95 


ACPProloBd (3MConn ) 27 95 


Vector 8800 Proto 


22 20 


Vector 8803 1 1 slot 


ViB 29 95 


ACP Extender w/Con 


n 15 95 


Video Interface (SSM) 31 95 


Parallel Interface (SSM) 31 95 


'„ ■>.-■■-.: ■■ ■■<:■..- - ■ , ■■ 


tiSlorWotherBoardfWMC) 29 95 


S Slot Mother (expandable) 34.95 


Proc-Tech Bare Boar 


ds. CALL 




COMPUTER SPECIALS 




LIST SALE 


Apple II Plus w/16K 


1195 990 


PET 2001 -16N 


995 695 


Exidy Sorcerer *.;fi K 


1099 


Compucoior M w/8K 


1595 1495 


Cromemco Sys III 


6990 6290 


Horizon 1 w/32K 


CALL 


TEIPI208w/32Kdual 


49952495 


floppy & CRT 




Pascal Micot-fujirv 


2995 2395 


IPS! 1 620 Diablo RO 


3295 2695 


Anadex OP 8000 


995 875 


Centronics Micro P-1 


595 395 


Centronics MicroS 1 


595 525 


Some lO ' 20 


995 795 


Teletype Model 43 


1349 1150 


Hi Plot Plotter 


1085 899 


HtPiot Digitizer 


795 735 


Intertube II 


895 785 


SOL 20 


1095 


Atari 800 


999. 899 


Atari 400 


549 499 


Tf 99/4 


1150 1099 


Leedex 12" Mcniin- 


149 129 


Centronics 730-1 


995 895 


Trencom T-100 


375 349 


Trencom T-200 


595 525 


Sanyo 9" Monitor 


220. 169 


Sanyo 15" Monitor 


295 279 


Motorola 22 MH* 




Monitor 


296 219. 




SOCKET SPECIALS 


14Pinw/w-2L 


$ 35 


16Pmw/w-2L 


40 


18Pmw/w-2L 


. 55 


20 Pin w/w-2L 


75 


40 Pin w/w-2L 


1 45 


18 Pin s/t 


15 


22 Pm s/t 


15 


Call for volume pricing. 



TERMS: Use check. M/C, VtSA, 
AMEX, CB, or COO COD requires 
25% deposit. Charge Orders please 
include expiration date Foreign pay 
US Funds Order by phone, mail or 
TWX MINIMUM $1000. Please in- 
clude magazine issue and phone no 
SHIPPING: USA add $2.00 for first 
2 lbs For surface add 30e for addi- 
lional lbs. For air add 704 for addi- 
tional lbs FOREIGN Add 10% ship- 
ping and handling COD'sS 1 85extra 
Not responsible for typos Some 
items subject to prior sale. We re- 
serve right to limit Quantities, some 
items subiect to precious metal adder 
Retail pricing may vary from Mail 
Order. 



RETAIL STORES OPEN MON-SAT */ 
3" E. Edinger STORE 674 El Cam i no Real 



Santa Ana, CA 92705 
is, Retail, Warehouse 



List in. CA 92680 
ng in Systems 



P.O. Box 17329 Irvine, Calif. 92713 
Direct Order Lines: (714) 558-8813 
(800) 854-8230 



FOR INTERNATIONAL ORDERS: 
1401 S. Borchard (714)953-0604 
Santa Ana, CA 92705 TWX: 91 0-595-1565 



Circle 256 on inquiry card. 



BYTE April 1980 285 



* 



The Supermarket for TRS-80 

/\QQ"Oll wOrnpOn©nTS (and other computers too] 

In stock now. Immediate delivery 



The VISTA V-80 
Disk Drive System 

• 23%more storage capacity 
than TRS-80 ^m 

• 120 day warranty 

• 40 track patch at NO 
CHARGE 





Single drive system $ 395.00 

Two drive system $ 770.00 

Four drive system $ 1450.00 

Two drive cable $ 29.95 

Four drive cable $ 39.95 



The VISTA V-80 Expansion Module 

■ Provides double density 
modification to your 
current Radio Shack 
interface (lets you format 
diskettes in either single 
or double density]. 

• Increases storage 
capacity up to 204K 
bytes (on single 40 
track drive). 

• Includes all hardware 

$239.00 software 




The VISTA Model II 

• Provides one, two or 
three drives. 

• Adds up to 1.5 million 
bytes of on-line storage. 

• 120 day warranty 

• Does everything Radio 
Shack's expansion 
system will do... for less! 

$1000.00 Single drive 

Expansion System 
$1550.00 Two drive Expansion System 
$2100.00 Three drive Expansion System 
$ 525.00 Additional drives alone 





The TRS-80 Printers 

Centronics 730... $945.00 

7x7 dot matrix- 

80 column ■ J^ 

Anadex 

DP8000... $895.00 
9x7 dot matrix- 
80 column 

VISTA 

Printer... $745.00 
5x7 dot matrix- 
80 column 

Cables $27.50 each 

Add On Drives 

MPIB51 40 Track, Double 

Density-204K $275.00 

MP! B52 Dual Head, Double 

Density-4Q8K $375.00 

Siemens FDD100-5 40 Track Double 

Density 204K $275.00 

Siemens FDD100-5 Flippy, 

records both sides $290.00 

Siemens FDD10O8 8" Single 

Sided Drive $448.00 



Other Products 

1. VISTA Verbatim diskettes (hard or soft sector) Certified 
40 track $ 38.95 

2. 16K RPM upgrade kits, guaranteed for 120 days. 
PRIME PRODUCT $ 74.50 

3. NEW! DOS + $ 110.00 

4. LNW expansion bare board $ 66.95 

5. H.C. Pennington book, TRS-80 Disk 

and Other Mysteries $ 18.95 

6. DDT Disco-Tech disk drive timer $ 19.95 

7. Cryptext (An Encryption Module) $299.00 



The VISTA V-200 for Exidyu 

• Completely packaged system, tested and ready to plug in, includes: 
power supply, two 40 track drives, case, controller, all cabling and 
total CPM documentation. 

• Storage capacity from 400K to 1.2 meg. ^ 

• System software-VISTA CP/M Disk Operating System and BASIC-E Compiler | 
recorded on 5-1/4" diskettes. 

Price: Starting as low as $1199.00 



22 



CALL TOLL-FREE 800-854-8017 



The Vista Computer Company 1401 Borchard Street •Santa Ana, California 92705 •714/953-0523 




•TRS-80 is a registered trademark of Radio Shack. 



286 BYTE April 1980 



Circle 257 on inquiry card. 



Unclassified Ads 



UNCLASSIFIED POLICY: Readers who are soliciting or giving advice, or who have equipment to buy, sell 
or swap should send in a clearly typed notice to that effect. To be considered for publication, an advertisement 
must be clearly noncommercial, typed double spaced on plain white paper, contain 75 words or less, and include 
complete name and address information. 

These notices are free of charge and will be printed one time only on a space available basis. Notices can be 
accepted from individuals or bona fide computer users clubs only. We can engage in no correspondence on these 
and your confirmation of placement is appearance in an issue of BYTE. 

Please note that it may take three or four months for an ad to appear in the magazine. 



FOR SALE: SOL-20 with 32 K programmable memory, dual 
North Star disk drives with power supply, and cabinets. Com- 
pletely operational. With North Star disk operating system, 
BASIC, and many disks full of programs. $2700. Clifford C 
Anthony, (301) 863-8468. 



FOR SALE: B & K oscilloscope Model #1471, 15 MHz band- 
width; $500. Optical paper-tape reader; $25. Richie, (305) 
553-4326 after 5 PM. 



FOR SALE: Percom disk SwTPC compatible controtler board 
with cable, MDOS-PLUS operating system in programmable 
read-only memory (no booting), plus TSC Edit and Text Pro- 
cessor with Touchup, Microsoft G2-Standard BASIC, 
Microware ABASIC compiler, and all disk utility programs on 
two minifloppies. All hardware $200 firm, software free with 
purchase. Just add Percom disk drive for $375 for complete 
disk system. M B Scudiere, 100 Ceder Ln, Oak Ridge TN 
37830,(615)482-1355. 



FOR SALE: Save $500 on iCOM disk controller for one to four 
disk drives. IBM 3740 compatible. Use with Shugart, Siemens, 
Pertec,, . .floppy-disk drives. With manual containing S-100 
and 6800 interface instructions. Just checked out by factory. 
Cost $850, only $250. Okidata 110 cps commercial quality 
printer with full options including pressure and tractor feed 
and self-test. Like new, just rebuilt by factory. With RS-232 in- 
terface, only $850. PT factory assembled S-100 bus 8 K pro- 
grammable memory, $85. H H Hayden, POB 1275, Socorro 
NM 87801. 



FOR SALE: KIM-1 microcomputer including all documenta- 
tion, $100. Electronic Systems 32 by 32-character video board, 
$75. Cyclic redundancy check ASCII (uppercase) keyboard, 
$25. All postpaid. Kerch Holt, 115 High St, Bath ME 04530, 
(207) 443-3588. 



FOR SALE: Two 8 K static programmable-memory boards by 
Base 2 and IMS respectively. One music board by Newtech. All 
for $325. Assembled and manuals included. Call after 6 PM. 
James Chen, (213) 363-4593. 



FOR SALE: I have two Rockwell AIM-65 microcomputers to 
sell. They are in their original cartons unopened. The 1 K is 
being offered for $325 and the 4 K for $425. I will ship these 
units UPS and will pay postage. Alfred F Stahler, 5521 Big Oak 
Dr, San Jose CA 95129, (408) 252-4219. 



FOR SALE: IMSAI MIO board with modifications to make it 
work, two parallel ports, serial port, Tarbell cassette port, soft- 
ware drivers, serial port untested. Two IMSAI 4 K 
programmable-memory boards, one Godbout 8 K Econoram 
board, 62-key ASCII keyboard in dress enclosure. Make offer 
on any or all. Roy Turner, 14407 Broadgreen, Houston TX 
77079, (713)497-5849. 



FOR SALE: Fairchild/Veras (44-pin bus) Micro System boards. 
One processor, one mother board, and two 4 K static memory 
boards. All expertly assembled, tested, and socketed. Much 
documentation, hardware, software, assembly manuals, and 
4 K BASIC included. First $200 takes all or best offer. Also, 
OAE OP-80 paper-tape reader (solid-state) thru 5000 cps. In- 
terfaces to any 8-bit parallel port. Assembled and working. 
Supplied with full documentation. $55. Paul Ramos, 100 Mid- 
dle St, Woburn MA 01801, (617) 935-3758. 



WANTED: Development system for Intel 8048 and/or 8080 
microprocessors. Prefer Model 230 Intellec Series II, but will 
consider any model. Also interested in any extras (ie: ICE, or 
what have you). Reed Hannebaum, 6821 Birdie Ln, St Louis 
MO 63129. 



FOR SALE: One IMSAI 32 K programmable-memory board, 
$500. Never used, but was working at 2 MHz when bought. 
Quitting microcomputing. J Phillips. 3435 N 75th Dr, Phoenix 
AZ 85033. 



FOR SALE: BYTE magazines, March 1977 thru September 
1978. Make me an offer. Dick Neish, 904 Marday, Sioux Falls 
SD 57103. 



FOR SALE: North Star computer. Piecemeal or package. 
Memory, processor, single-density drive. D Montano, 13 Mac- 
farlan St, Hawthorne NJ 07506. 



FOR SALE: Expanded KIM system: two 8 K programmable- 
memory boards, 2 K erasable-programmable read-only 
memory S-100 mother board, separate 64 by 16 television 
typewriter, fast tape input/output (I/O), books, much soft- 
ware; ali for $400. Fred Monsour, 309 Camellia Dr, Charlot- 
tesville VA 22903, (804) 977-8077. 



FOR SALE: BYTE, November 1976 thru December 1978, 
twenty-six issues, $25. Interface Age, February 1977 thru 
December 1978, twenty-two issues, $21. Kilobaud, June 1978 
thru December 1978, seven issues, $6. Or all for $50 FOB. R 
Mendetson, 27 Somerset PI, Murray Hill NJ 07974, (201) 
464-5244. 



FOR SALE: PET computer, 8 K programmable memory, in- 
cludes five prerecorded tapes, all in perfect working condition. 
$650. Stan Prokop, 4330-B 2nd Ave, Ft Knox KY 40121, (502) 
624-8650, 



FOR SALE: Intel SDK-85 SBC system, completely assembled 
with extra 8155 wired in, instruction book, assembly manual, 
MCS-85 users manual. See article in January 1979 BYTE, page 
60. Asking $260, you pay shipping. Sam Stickle, 651 E Travis 
Blvd #14, Fairfield CA 94533, (707) 422-4850. 



FOR SALE: Quitting hobby. All test equipment, integrated cir- 
cuits, transistors, capacitors, resistors, etc must go. Send SASE 
for list and prices. Steve Pang, 99-709 Hoio St, Aiea HI 96701 . 



FOR SALE: E and L MMD-1 8080A Mini/Micro computer with 
one Ml interface board. An excellent tutorial system. 2.5 K 
programmable memory, monitor and D-Bug in programmable 
read-only memory, octal keyboard entry, tape cassette inter- 
face, and serial input/output (I/O) for teletype or monitor, A-1 
condition. $395. Don Woods, 12012 Pebblebrook Ln, Carmel 
IN 46032, (317)846-8388. 



FOR SALE: Factory assembled ELF-II in almost new condition. 
Includes power supply, user manuals, light pen, speaker inter- 
face, and other information. Worth about $170, sell for $150. 
Tom Court, 8745 Greenway Ave S, Cottage Grove MN 55016, 
(612)459-4340. 



FOR SALE: PolyMorphic 88 system: 8080 processor, 24 K pro- 
grammable memory, 300 bps and 1 200 bps cassette interface 
with Superscope recorder, serial printer interface board, 
Javelin video monitor, and keyboard. Excellent condition, runs 
great. Includes hardware/software manuals, BASIC, 
Assembler, and Disassembler programs. $1500 or best offer, J 
Comer, 221 Reynolds Rd, Raleigh NC 27609, (919) 781 -3072. 



FOR SALE: Teletypes: ASR33 ($450), KSR33 ($375), KSR35 
($550); high-speed teletype line printer ($285), high-speed 
paper punch ($1 35), INVAC paper punch ($60). Will consider 
trade for memory, video, or other S-100 boards. Shipping ex- 
tra, call for condition. Jim, (509) 547-8745 evenings. 



GENEALOGY: I am using a microcomputer to help bring order 
out of chaos in my collected documentation of several thou- 
sand ancestors. I would like to be able to store, file, sort, 
retrieve, and cross-reference genealogical data. I would also 
like to be able to have pedigree, individual, and family group 
printouts, as well as indexes. I would like to hear from others 
having a similar interest (it also has relevance to tracing genetic 
dis- -vers and there are other analogs), so that a network of 
in :ition could be oooled and shared. Clifton M Howard, 
5c ! »r Orden Rd, Harrington Park NJ 07640. 



PROGRAM EXCHANGE: The Craig County Public Schools 
have placed Level II TRS-80s in pilot programs in elementary 
and secondary schools. These machines are being used with 
computer-assisted instruction (CAI) programs and educational 
programs. Because of an apparent scarcity of CAI programs, 
K-12, school personnel and advanced secondary students are 
developing such programs. This process is quite slow, 
however, when the ultimate objective is to offer CAI in a 
variety of subjects at all grade levels. We would be glad to con- 
tact schools and/or individuals interested in exchanging pro- 
grams which they have developed. Earl R Savage, Craig Coun- 
ty Public Schools, POB 245, New Castle VA 24127. 



FOR SALE: PolyMorphic Systems Poly 88 computer system 
including: 8080A processor board, 1 6 K memory board, video 
interface board (memory-mapped with graphics), mainframe 
with input/output (I/O) amp power supply, keyboard, 
modified TV, cassette interface, and all documentation. 
BASIC, Assembler software on tape. 1 .5 years old. $1 100 or 
best offer. Joel Cardon, 4 University Hill Way, Logan UT 
84321 , (801 ) 752-55 1 6 after 7 PM. 



FOR SALE: AIM-65 microcomputer with built-in printer, full 
ASCII keyboard, and 20-character alphanumeric display. 
Interfaces to two audio cassette recorders and 20 mA loop 
teletypewriter. Unit includes $75 4 K programmable memory 
option and $85 Assembler read-only memory option. Original 
price of complete system purchased 6/79 was $535. Asking 
$450. Bob Findley, 5 Marvin PI, Bethel CT 06801, (203) 
792-9945. 



WANTED: NOVA Assembler Manual, DGC 093-000017 
and/or Assembler punched tape program for NOVA. R A 
May, 306 Ferguson Ave, Elizabethton TN 37643. 



FOR SALE: L/S ADM 31 video display. N/S Horizon pro- 
cessor, 32 K programmable memory, two double-density 
disks. T/l Omni 810 printer. P Mundy, 49 E 12 St #3F, New 
York NY 10003. 



FOR SALE: Diablo series 30, 2.5 megabytes disk drives, com- 
patible with many processor interfaces: Texas Instruments, 
Interdata, Data General, DEC, etc. $995 for drive. $110 for 
power supply which will power two disk drives. Jon Shechter, 
556 Rutherford Dr, Seaford NY 11783, (516) 796-8683. 



Ciarcia Wins Three in a Row 

Steve Ciarcia has won the BOMB 
for the third consecutive month. He 
will receive a $100 check for his 
January article, ''Computerize a 
Home." Our congratulations go to 
Steve for an excellent job. Second 
place was a tie between John Gib- 
son and Edward Joyce for their 
respective articles, "A Computer- 
Controlled Light Dimmer, Part I: 
Design," and "Telephone Dialing by 
Computer." Ken Skier's article on 
"Indirect Addressing for the 6502" 
placed third. 

The first place article was 2 stan- 
dard deviations above the mean, 
and the two second place articles 
placed 0.8 standard deviations 
above the mean.a 



April 1980 © BYTE Publications Inc 287 



Reader 
Service 



To get further information on the products advertised in BYTE, fill out the reader service card with your 
name and address. Then circle the appropriate numbers for the advertisers you select from the list. Add a 
15-cent stamp to the card, then drop it in the mail. Not only do you gain information, but our advertisers are 
encouraged to use the marketplace provided by BYTE. This helps us bring you a bigger BYTE. * Correspond 
directly with company. 



Inquiry No. 



Page No. 



Inquiry No. 



Page No. 



Inquiry No. 



Page No. 



Inquiry No. 



Page No. 



214 AB Computers 270 

59 Ackerman Digital 37 

256 Advanced Computer Prod 284, 285 

243 Agent Computer Services 280 

125 AL Industries 207 
237 ALL Electronics 280 
189 Altos 154, 155 

186 American Square Computers 239 
121 Ampero Software 206 

21 Anadex Inc 51 

218 Ancrona 272 
141 Apparat 217 

45 Apple Computer 13 

301 Applied Computer Sys Inc 229 

11 Artec Electronics 24 

204 ASAP 254 

183 ATV Research 239 

71 Automated Simulations 126 

156 Automated Simulations 226 

160 Avionic Enterprises (A.E.I.) 229 

268 B & W Energy Management Sys 156 
220 Beckian 274 

159 John Bell Engineering 229 

198 Beta Business Sys 241 

* Beta Computer Devices 199 
189 Bizcomp 240 

174 Buss/Charles Floto 236 

* BYTE Back Issues 237 

103 BYTE Books 71 
35 BYTE Books 187 

127 BYTE Books 87, 127 

66 BYTE Conference 111-114 

275 C & S Electronics Mart 217 

9 California Computer Systems 20, 21 

187 California Data Corp 239 

212 California Digital 267 
152 CAP Electronics 223 
250 CCM282 

76 Central Data 135 

31 Chrislin Industries 65 

178 Chrislin Industries 238 

199 Cleveland Consumer Computers 
& Components 251 

111 Compas Microsystems 199 

58 CompuServe (micro NET) 97 

219 Computer City (The CPU Shop) 273 
62 Computer Distributors 105 

* The Computer Factory 110 

* Computer Factory 1 19 

40 Computer Furniture & Access 76 

* Computer Headware 22 
29 Computer Mart of NJ 63 

228 Computer Music Jrnl (MIT Press) 278 

192 Computer Service Center 241 

246 Computer Services 282 

180 Computer Shopper 239 

50 Computer Specialties 85 

147 Computers Wholesale 221 

276 Computex 146 

126 Coosol, Inc 207 

20 Corvus Systems 49 

1 Cromemco 1, 2 

170 CT MicroCOMPUTER, Inc 235 

* Cybernetics Inc 201 

200 Dal-Comp 252 
123 DAR Sales 206 

* Data Access 235 

176 DataArt, Inc 237 

136 Data Discount Center 215 

154 Datadisk Systems 225 
233 DATALEASE Corp 278 
139 Date smith 217 

48 DATASPEED 83 

245 Delta Products 281 

117 DG Electronics 203 

177 Digital Graphic Systems 237 
55 Digital Marketing 90 

88 Digital Pathways 153 

222 Digital Research: Computers 275 

105 Digital Research Corp (CA) 189 

87 Dr Dobb's Journal 152 

26 Dynabyte 59 

155 Dynacomp 225 

133 Dynamic Microprocessor Assoc 213 

* Eaton LRC 30, 31 
131 Ecosoft 213 

53 Edmund Scientific 88 

207 Electrolabs 258, 259 

235 Electrolabs 279 

93 Electronic Book Club 165 

75 Electronic Control Technology 134 

213 Electronic Systems 268, 269 

* Electravaiue Industrial 280 
163 Emerge Systems 231 

161 Escon 229 

171 Excel Co. 235 

104 FAIRCOM 188 

269 Faragher & Assoc 156 
231 Farnsworth Computer 278 
129 Five Stones Software 211 



223 Ford ham Radio 276 184 

182 Frederick Computer Products 239 195 

158 G.W. Computer, Ltd 228 34 

122 Gimix206 107 

241 GEM Business Systems, Ltd 280 6 

108 Global Parameters 194 24 

91 God bout Electronics 159 30 

259 Graham Dorian Enterprises CV III 43 

94 H & E Computronics 166 167 

95 H & E Computronics 167 203 

37 Hamilton/Avnet 73 119 
79 Hardside 139 77 
49 Hayden Book 84 86 
15 Heath Company 29 255 
61 Heuristics 104 13 

221 Hobby World 274 57 

138 IBC 160 114 

65 Inco Inc 108 109 

* Independent Business Sys (I.B.S.) 220 185 
82 Industrial Micro Systems 145 271 

196 Infinite Inc 241 209 

54 Infosoft Systems Inc 89 73 

7 Integral Data Systems 17 74 

175 Integrand 237 80 

239 Intelligence Systems Ltd. 280 81 
247 Interface, Inc. 282 17 

85 International Data Systems (IDS) 149 261 

193 International Design Eng Assoc. (IDEA) 262 

241 144 

10 Intertec Data Systems 23 12 

2 Ithaca Intersystems 9 13 

22 Ithaca Intersystems 52 181 

240 J. Cameron Associates Inc. 280 

210 Jade 262, 263 234 

208 Jameco Electronics 260, 261 260 

205 Jim-Pak Electronics 255 280 

252 Jini Micro Systems 282 168 

56 JRT Systems Inc 92 8 

142 Konan Corp 218 32 

* Lifeboat 100, 101, 223 143 
157 Macrotronics 227 * 
238 Macrotronics 280 153 
148 Marymac Industries Inc 221 41 

84 Maxell Data Products 147 51 

* Measurement Systems & Controls 45 

* Measurement Systems & Controls 241 227 
270 Metaresearch 156 21 1 
124 MICAH 207 166 

263 Micro America 130 113 

264 Micro America 131 

265 Micro America 140 28 

266 Micro America 141 44 
115 Micro Applications Group (MAG) 203 47 
202 Micro Business World 253 16 

* Micro Computer Discount 211 

150 Micro Management Systems 222 42 

140 Microcomputer Technology Inc 217 52 

232 Microcomputer Technology Inc. 278 206 

* Micro Diversions (Scion Corp) 5 172 
112 Micromall 201 169 
162 Micromail 230 39 
251 Micro Mart 282 225 
164 Micro Mikes 231 137 

38 Micro Music 74 216 

* Micro Pro International 125 14 
302 Microware 237 78 



Mic rosette 239 230 

Microsette241 229 

Micro Soft 69 4 
Microsoft (Consumer Prod Div) 193 248 

Micro Source 15 173 

Microtek 55 254 

The Micro Works 64 132 

Micro World 79 151 

Midwest Computer Perlph 233 194 

Mikos 254 99 

Mini Computer Suppliers 205 64 

Mini Micro Mart 136 67 
Mini Micro Mart 151 

Mini Micro Mart 283 92 

Morrow/Thinker Toys 47 130 

Mountain Hardware 93 106 
Mountain Hardware 202 

MT MicroSYSTEMS 195 69 
Multi Business Computer Sys 239 19 

NCC 209 149 

NCE/CompuMart 262, 263 100 

NEECO130 110 

NEECO 131 97 

NEECO 140 5 

NEECO 141 224 

Netronics 42 165 

Netronics121 258 

Netronics 121 3 
Newtech Computer Systems 219 145 

North Star 25 102 

North Star 27 217 
Northwest Computer Services 239 96 

NRI Schools 129 101 
Nylac Data Systems 278 
Ohio Scientific instrument CV IV 98 

OS! 32a-32p 60 
Oliver Advanced Eng (OAE) 233 118 

OK Machine and Tool Corp 19 90 

OK Machine & Tool Corp 66 33 

Olympic Sales 219 134 

OnComputing 161 226 

Optimal Technology inc 225 179 

Orange Micro 77 25 

Oregon Software 86 * 

Owens Associates 77 27 

Pacific Exchanges 278 244 

Page Digital 266 253 
PATA 232 

Pan American Elec (A Radio 68 

Shack Auth. Sales Ctr.) 201 190 

Per Com Data 61 120 

Per Com Data 80 23 

Per Com Data 81 36 

Personal Software 33 257 

Phase One Systems 197 201 

Pickles & Trout 78 215 

Power One 41 * 

Priority One Inc 256, 257 63 

Quality Computer 249 236 

Quality Software 233 191 

Quasar Data Products Inc 75 135 

Quest 277 116 
RACET Computes 215 
Radio Hut 271 
Raygam 28 
RCA Solid State 137 



Realty Software 278 

Renaissance Systems Inc. 278 

RITAM International 12 

RLK Software 282 

RNB Enterprises 236 

S & A Data 282 

S-100 213 

Sara Tech 223 

SC Digital 241 

Scelbi 178, 179 

Seattle Computer Products 107 

Michael Shrayer 109 

Shugart 6, 7 

Sigma International 163 

Sirius Systems 211 

Small Business 

Applications Inc, 191 

Smoke Signal Broadcasting 123 

Softagon Inc 48 

Softech 221 

Softside 183 

Software Devel & Training 199 

The Software Exchange 171 

The Soft Warehouse 14 

Solid State Sales 276 

Sorrento Valley Assoc 231 

Southwest Tech Prod Corp CVII 

SSM 11 

Structured Systems Group 219 

SubLOGIC 186 

Sunny International 272 

Supersoft 169 

Supersoft 185 

Supersoft 224 

Sybex 175 

Synchro Sound 103 

Synergetic Computer Prod 205 

TarbeM Electronics 157 

Tech Sys Consultants (TSC) 67 

Tec-Mar 214 

Terminal Data Corp 278 

Theta Labs Inc 239 

3/M Company 57 

Robert Tinney Graphics 95 

Trans Net 60 

Ucatan Computer Store 280 

Univair, Inc. 282 

Universal Security Inst. (U.S.I.) 282 

US Robotics 122 

Vantage Data Products 241 

Vector Electronics 205 

Verbatim Corp 53 

Vertec 72 

Vista Computer 286 

VR Data 252 

Wameco 270 

Whitesmith's Ltd 91 

John Wiley & Sons 106 

Wintex Corp 280 

Worldwide Electronics 241 

Yourdon Press 215 

Z s Systems 203 



BOMB 


BYTE s Ongoing Moi 


litor Box 

Author 




Article # 


Page 


Article 


1 


18 


Using the Computer as a Musician's Amanuensis, 
Part 1: Fundamental Problems 


Raskin 




2 


34 


Add a Simple Text Editor to Your BASIC Program 


Goff 




3 


40 


Ease Into 16-Bit Computing, Part 2: Examining a 
Small Multi-User System 


Ciarcia 




4 


70 


Advanced Real-Time Music Synthesis Techniques 


Chamberiin 




5 


96 


Computing the / Ching with a TRS-80 


Dethlefsen 




6 


118 


Calculating Filter Capacitor Values for Computer 
Power Supplies 


Thomas 




7 


124 


A Graphics Text Editor for Music, Part 1: Structure 
of the Editor 


Nelson 




8 


142 


The Great Race and Micro Disk Files, 
Horse Race Simulations 


Roehrig 




9 


198 


Program Those 2708s! 


Glaser 




10 


212 


Apple Audio Processing 


Cross 




11 


234 


Build a Low-Cost EPROM Eraser 


Goiter 






Bomb results on previous page 



Make your micro 





\\ 



At any given time, your hardware Is 
only as useful as the software you insert in it 

So it pays to rely on Graham-Dorian, 
the software that gets your micro performing 
to its fullest — almost like a mini. 

Graham-Dorian, the industry leader, 
offers highly detailed and well-documented 
programs. All pretested on the job. Each so 
comprehensive that it takes little time to 
learn to run a program — even for someone 
who's never operated a computer before. 

Programs are compatible with most 
major computers using CP/M disk operating 
systems, and come in standard 8" or on 
various mini-floppy disks. Each package 
contains the software program in (NT and 
BAS file form plus a user's manual and hard 
copy source listing. Graham-Dorian stands 
behind dealers with technical advice when 
needed. 

Yes, there's a world of difference in 
business software. Count on Graham- Dorian 
for more per-package capabilities and more 



packages. (With new ones added every few 

months.) 

Professional Packages 

• Medical •Apartment Management 

• Dental • Construction Job Costing 

• Surveying 

General Accounting Packages 

• Accounts Receivable • Inventory 

• Accounts Payable • Payroll 

• General Ledger • Cash Register 
CBASIC-2 

(AJi accounting packages are interactive, with a single entry updating all 
affected files.) 

Ask your dealer for a demonstration soon. 




Graham-Dorian Software Systems, Inc. 

211 North Broadway Wichita, KS 67202 (316) 265-8633 



Circle 259 on Inquiry card. 



The home computer you thoug 
years away is here. 





**MUMU » 



a 




Dhio Scientific's top of the line personal com- 
Liter, the C8P DF. This system incorporates 
the most advanced technology now available 
in standard configurations and add-on options. 
The C8P DF has full capabilities as a personal 
computer, a small business computer, a home 
monitoring security system and an advanced 
process controller. 
Personal Computer Features 
The C8P DF features ultra-fast program execu- 
tion. The standard model is twice as fast as 
other personal computers such as the Apple II 
and PET The computer system is available 
with a GT option which nearly doubles the 
speed again, making it comparable to high end 
mini-computer systems. High speed execution 
makes elaborate video animation possible as 
well as other I/O functions which until now, 
have not been possible. The C8P DF features 
Ohio Scientific's 32 x 64 character display with . 
graphics and gaming elements for an effective 
resolution of 256 x 512 points and up to 16 
colors. Other features for personal use include 
a programmable tone generator from 200 to 
20KHz and an 8 bit companding digital to 
analog converter for music and voice output, 
2-8 axis joystick interfaces, and 2-10 key pad 
interfaces. Hundreds of personal applications, 
games and educational software packages are 
currently available for use with the C8P DF. 
Business Applications 
The C8P DF utilizes full size 8" floppy disks 
and is compatible with Ohio Scientific's ad- 
vanced small business operating system, 
OS-65U and two types of information manage- 
ment systems, OS-MDMS and OS-DMS. 





a 



I 




The computer system comes standard with a 
high-speed printer interface and a modem in- 
terface. It features a full 53-key ASCII 
keyboard as well as 2048 character display 
with upper and lower case for business and 
word processing applications. 
Home Control 

The C8P DF has the most advanced home 
monitoring and control capabilities ever 
offered in a computer system. It incorporates 
a real time clock and a unique FOREGROUND/ 
BACKGROUND operating system which allows 
the computer to function with normal BASIC 
programs at the same time it is monitoring 
external devices. The C8P DF comes standard 
with an AC remote control interface which 
allows it to control a wide range of AC appli- 
ances and lights remotely without wiring and 
an interface for home security systems which 
monitors fire, intrusion, car theft, water levels 
and freezer temperature, all without messy 
wiring. In addition, the C8P DF can accept 
Ohio Scientific's Votrax voice I/O board and/or 
Ohio Scientific's new universal telephone inter- 
face (UTI). The telephone interface connects 
the computer to any touch-tone or rotary dial 
telephone line. The computer system is able to 
answer calls, initiate caiis and communicate 
via touch-tone signals, voice output or 300 
baud modem signals. It can accept and 
decode touch-tone signals, 300 baud modem 
signals and record incoming voice messages. 
These features collectively give the C8P DF 
capabilities to monitor and control home func- 
tions with almost human-like capabilities. 

Process Controller 

The C8P DF incorporates a real time clock, 
FOREGROUND/BACKGROUND operation and 
16 parallel I/O lines. Additionally a universal 




accessory BUS connector is accessible at t 
back of the computer to plug in additional 48 
lines of parallel I/O and/or a complete analoc 
signal I/O board with AID and D/A and 
multiplexers. 

Clearly, the C8P DF beats all existing small 
computers in conventional specifications plus 
it has capabilities far beyond any other com- 
puter system on the market today. 
C8P DF is an 8-slot mainframe class computer 
with 32K static RAM, dual 8" floppies, and 
several open slots for expansion. 

C8P $ 895 

Or get started with a C8P with cassette inter- 
face, 8K BASIC-in-ROM which includes most 
of the features of the C8P DF except the real 
time clock, 16 parallel I/O lines, home security 
interface and accessory BUS. It comes with 
8K static RAM and Ohio Scientific's ultra-fast 
8K BASIC-in-ROM. It can be expanded to a 
C8P DF later. Base price $895. Virtually all the 
programs available on disk are also available 
for the C8P cassette system on audio 
cassette. 

Computers come with keyboards and floppies where specified. 
Other equipment shown is optional. 

For literature and the name of your local 
dealer, CALL 1-800-321-6850 TOLL FREE. 



1333 SOUTH CHILLICOTHE ROAD 
AURORA, OH 44202 • [21 B] 831 -5B00 



ft&SCLLS b 



Circle 260 on inquiry card. 



